That is a bad attitude to have, Karen! If you think that way, Las Vegas will be really dangerous for you.
Really? What else have you discovered?
Put it beside you. Don ’ t pile your purses, briefcase and other belongings on the employer ’ s desk. You've got long hair. Don ’ t touch it while talking to the interviewer. It gives people the feeling that you cannot concentrate on your work.
Well, I just thought that it was right up my street you know.
Disco is my favorite. I like it better than any other dances because it can release one's hidden feelings, and is a healthy exercise. But I don't do the rock and roll nor break-dancing.
Actually, he's the most dependable person I know, and he would never turn on anyone.
No, thanks. I have some trouble with my heart, my doctor recommend I to drink less.
What kind of meat would you like to get today?
Ha, I am flattered. Actually, when it comes to negotiate, you don ’ t need to like it. You just need to understand how it works.
Where's the toilet?
Well, you don ’ t have to be mean. How do I do it?
I'm Patti Whitney.Isn ' t this convention great?
I like the way that the gifts I get increasingly more lavish.
You really think that many people turn to the internet to find product information.What about the old standbys of word mouth and print media?
No, this will not do. Let me see.
I'm not ready to get off the phone with you.
Do you have some experiences to share with me? I want to have a try.
That's weird!
Could you and your wife be ready at nine o'clock?
I'm going to pay it today.
Yeah! When I got my nose job I was black and blue for a week!
Time permitted, you could add certain examples to your description.
Certainly, Mr. Williams. Just one moment, please.
You have to pay to use the copier.
Yes, I am an outgoing person who likes to be with a lot of friends.
Hello. I need to find out if a Receipt of Proceeds has arrived. I'm from Felix Wasserman Associates.
It varies from time to time. At present it is 6 %.
I know what you mean. I could use a vacation myself.
Don't count on it.
Please call me or send e-mail. Could you please let me know when your organization can make a decision?
Those are company cars provided to the sales staff for their business trips. Also, some employees receive sales commissions. So good salesmen will naturally earn more.
This sucks. I hate buying lingerie. Okay, just find something and get out of here. Alright, these are fine. Oh, no, don ’ t come over here, don ’ t come over here.
Well, $ 10 per hour, but I can keep the tips. That comes to roughly $ 80 every evening
The summer temperature usually often reaches about 20 or25 in my city. The rain falls mostly in the winter. And we often get snow.
Nonsmoking. Now, sir, does a single queen-size bed meet your approval?
With your prime rib and chicken choices, you'd better hope nobody's vegetarian.
I agree. He is also an excellent speaker.
The question is we only need one.
Not too well! I ’ m just to the doctor. I haven ’ t been feeling too well over the last few days.
It shouldn't be long. Thirty minutes, tops. Are you in a hurry?
Hi. Can I help you with anything?
Do you have an account with this bank?
What do you charge?
I've heard so much about Japan. Is it a beautiful country?
I would like to know is it a direct flight to Dubai?
I am calling to cancel it now. I can't go to your city this week.
Hi, Ben. Come in. Diane's not ready yet, so you'll have to wait a few minutes.
Can I make a phone call to a friend if I have a question?
Are you sure you heard right?
I am sorry. They are not available now.
May I bring you a salad?
What a shame! Their marriage is really a mistake.
Well, I ’ Ve attended some conferences in this field. But the most relevant training I ’ Ve had was in computer design. I believe I could integrate that knowledge with my college degree to design
Why? I still wanted to talk to you.
Well, I hope you have a wonderful time on your library visits!
Wait, there ’ s more! Then you need to introduce and describe your goods or services. What they are and how they are different from competitors ’? Then comes the hard part, a market analysis. You need to investigate and analyze hundreds of variables! You need to take into consideration socioeconomic factors from GDP per capita to how many children on average the population has! All this information is useful so that you can move on to your strategy and implementation stage, where you will describe in detail how you will actually execute your idea.
Have you seen the house?
Excuse me, is this the office of the Textile Corporation?
... Okay, I'm finished. Here's your form and my old card.
Come on, Mary, you're a total catch. I bet he will call you. Don't worry.
Will you be checking in any baggage today?
Right, but that's where my heart is. But you're right, now there are only 14 living at home.
Sounds like a good idea. I love to play on the jungle gym.
Didn ’ t they let you go?
Well, listen, Honey, you've been a big help lately...
John, I was talking to the travel agent about where we might be taking our vacation this year.
why? You have a decent salary, lots of promotion opportunities and a regular life of going to the office at 9 o ' clock and coming back home at 5 in the evening.
I would like to have a dishwasher and central air conditioning.
Look! He has a partner!
Of course, my grandpa is generous and kind.My grandma cooks the most delicious Chinese dishes in the world.
Oh, no problem. Here's the lid that comes with the pan.
Most people grow accustomed to the climate, but there are many others who complain about it all the time.
First, put away your toys.
Oh no! Not a good swing at all! It’s definitely not his day today. On the seventh hole he got a bogey and before that he barely made par. He will definitely not get a birdie on this shot.
Let's start to study how to use computers, Paler. It's good to know that a computer has two major parts, the hardware and the software.
We hope so.
Well, I hope you can find something else to be passionate about.
It costs only two thousand yuan.
Can you tell me a little bit about yourself?
How about a game of bridge?
Apply some of the ointment, and rub it into the skin.
We really have some movable weather sometime. I wish I would live somewhere which were sunning all year round.
How much is a postcard?
do you still play piano?
That's great for me. Look, children's clothes! I'd like to buy some winter clothes for my son and daughter.
It is time to butter him up.
If I could do it in the morning, then that would be good.
What kind of dog is he?
Alright. With shipping charges, your total will be 68 dollars. Will you be paying with credit?
Those are the headlines for today, and now for the international weather report with Mike Sanderson.
Excuse me, Sir, May I have the time, please?
We can have a rest now after this tough interview.
Why would I joke?
Not everything, but nearly. She speaks very clearly and doesn ’ t use very complex words so that it is easy for us to understand her.
Good morning, Mr. Church. I ’ d like some lamb chops for the children ’ s lunch.
I don't know. I don't know what most of this food is!
Waiter, a menu please!
Would you like to go to a concert tonight?
No problem. But, the postage is much higher than the regular package.
Really? How come?
She will come and let you know when your table is prepared.
It's always rather congested down there during rush hour. Maybe you should try to find a different route to get home.
If you could pick me up at home, that would be great.
Yes. Natural pearls or cultured pearls? We have both kinds.
Besides the checking account, there's a monthly savings account and a daily interest account.
Can we take personal days off?
I'm just poring over some brochures about various car models.
Very good. It's been a pleasure to do business with you, Mr. Smith.
Who's the woman you talked to just now?
Wow! Look at all these books! I bet I can find a book about anything here!
Yes. To be frank, I really love him to death.
A single, preferably with a bath.
Oh, really? Nice to meet you. I thought they were going to leave me here on my own! How long have you been with the company?
Oh, no, it was a kind of pop art. I like it but I couldn't do it that well.
This has been the worst and best day of my life, Taylor. They kept you in the hospital, and...
Well, you seem to enjoy speaking English.
Yes, she's been like this for two weeks.
Well, you could never tell about the weather here in New York.
Brad, it's her birthday. Let's get her something really special.
Well, it's specially made of a platinum alloy, sir, and the lustre will never fade out.
It's a blackout. Now I can't see Seinfeld.
I want to have a bath.
callous is a great Internet-based placement service that is available to you.
There is the Balance of Net Liabilities. This must not exceed its net assets and no business loss can be shown during the past two years.
sure, we'd be carry to lose a good worker like you.
By the way, I'd like to change some U. S. dollars to pounds and I want to know today's exchange rate.
Which subway should I take to get to the East Side?
Right, let me run through your options. You can go ahead and cash your undue Large-Amount Deposit Certificate if you really want to, but I'd recommend a Personal Durable Commodities Loan.
That sounds great. So, do you want to have dinner at 6:00?
Of course. I'm sorry for your daughter.
White rice, please. None of that healthy brown stuff for me!
Is that my blood going into that tube?
I promise I will.
Me, too. I've heard so much about you.
We need to find an interior decorating company to redecorate the kitchen. I believe in Portland there are shops that specialize in kitchen renovation. I will look in the Yellow Pages. I'd like a kitchen mostly in ivory and light green.
Good afternoon, madam. How can I help you?
I'm going to register right now.
Of course, he would. Would you leave them with me?
Do you like traveling, Kathy?
Lily! Why aren't you up and ready for school?
What? What happened?
The contestants are different. These girls perform in free styles.
Do you want to live here?
Good idea. I'll go shopping in one of the department stores nearby. We'll go to the zoo and the park another time. After all, we can put that off.
Jack, I don't know what to say to comfort you, but cheer up! There are plenty of fish in the sea and you'll find your soul mate, your perfect match!
Yeah, it's funny. I usually don't ever eat fruit...
No, there is no charge for those.
I am afraid not. Are there any vacant tables?
I want games that are all luck.
You must be feeling terrible for Mary.
How much should I pay for the excess weight?
I ’ Ve ever seen a living being looked so thin.
Well, would you like to go?
Good morning. More Hotel. At your service.
This the workshop thing is so sus.
Sorry, all the tables for three are reserved.
That's alright.
Do you have any mixed drinks available here?
Sure. If you want more coffee, please go over there. There is self-help coffee maker.
Look at the cloud.
The system crashed when I was surfing on the internet.
Yes. Go straight ahead till you come to the traffic lights, turn left there and it's the first turning on the right.
Yes, I can see it.But what's on it?
No, really! And she told me the secret to winning, wear red underwear!
Excuse me, miss.Should I check in here for taking MS121 to Florence?
Ok, then we'll go by train. I'm sure we'll have a good journey.Shall we go to the station and buy the tickets?
Literature and economy.
They're both very well, thanks.
May I have the fettuccini Alfredo?
Count me in!
Honey, which hand should I use to hold the fork?
You were so happy, weren ’ t you?
fortunately for you, you don't. Next time, if you have any questions about visas, you should try to find out before you get to the airport.
Yes, it is nice, but wait until you see the interior.
You cancelled the song, didn't you, Jack?
Awful! My cell phone is out of service again. Fred, can you lend me some money?
Marty Smith. M-A-R-T-Y, S-M-I-T-H
What are our areas for growth? What sectors do you see the most potential in? If we are going to pull our sales numbers up and develop the brand, we got to work across the board.
Let me see your passport. Is London your final destination?
Yeah. Each style is specially designed by world's top designers. So they can always make you look amazing.
It leaves in 20 minutes.
We're going to have to postpone the meeting.
It's almost Christmas. What are you doing this weekend?
Yes. speaking. Is there anything I can do for you?
The interest on this new account is higher than any of the accounts in our Personal Financing.
They're OK, but I prefer chinese ones.
Paul, is this Paul, isn't it?
What should I wear today?
I think we did.
How do you know? I thought Taiwanese people didn't have garage sales.
I think you are flicking through it.
Fine by me. Do you know how to read this kind of contract?
Yeah. It seems like we don't speak the same language as far as movies are concerned.
Yes, that's one of the main things we are interested in. When do you think I can get hold of this report?
Awful. It was a complete waste of time.
Good evening, Saliva. What's that wonderful aroma from your kitchen? What are you doing now?
Hello. I'm not sure who I need to speak to. I got this 50 yuan note today and it seems a little odd to me.
I'd rather have a cup of coffee.
Yes, I ordered the express service.
When the rain stops, you ’ ll see how beautiful the beach is.
Don't take too long. It would be a shame not to take advantage of such lovely weather.
But Mark's birthday is in April so I need to think about his present soon.
I was born in Beijing, but I spent most of my childhood in London.
Then I guess you get to have a pet. Do you know what you want?
Let ’ s go downtown and pick up some fashionable clothes for you.
Hey, Frank. I heard you got a new job.
Certainly. The package includes air travel to and from Paris, accommodations, meals and transportation around the city.
Ok, let's see, well, you've got a long life line, which is good, and the love line is strong...
What do you want to know about me?
Could you tell me where the canteen is?
She is 17. It's for her birthday.
Why are you applying for a visa?
Why do you like this computer?
That was a bright idea.
All I did so far was make a bid on the Buddha. It was easy!
We use different spices but few people use recipes. They learn to cook by experience.
You shouldn ’ t consume too much sugar or caffeine. Also, watch your intake of fatty food.
Will the home inspection cost me a lot?
That's true dedication. I'm impressed. When is it due?
My wife sent me with rice, vegetables, and some curry chicken.
Very good. Here is your room key, sir. If you need anything at all, please dial 0.
Really? I think you ’ ll love it.
Alright. Well, I feel more comfortable now.Now I understand I am welcome as a visitor.
We had a fantastic time.
Can you tell me what's the time in London?
Good morning! Can I help you?
Please fill out this form, and then take your parcel to the counter on my left-hand side.
No, ma'am. I ’ m afraid you put in only one quarter and one dime.
I'm sorry, sir. Perhaps you'd like to write a letter to headquarters.
For protection. Some relics will turn to dust if exposed to air.
Would you like to have dinner with me tonight?
Dora, are you interested in going to the museum with me tomorrow? I read the newspaper this morning. I know there is an art exhibition in Taipei Modern Art Museum.
It's my pleasure, what can I do for you?
Really? That's great! I'm going to try that next time.
Let me guess. You want to watch the History Channel again!
All right, pull over at that service station and I'll dress in the ladies ' room.
Honey, you should know that I love you so deeply.
A little distraction might do you some good, Zina.
I will take some clothes to change and cleaning items.
And when will it be OK?
Yeah, she has a lot of homework.
Is there any provision on applying for the patent for foreign company?
Okay. That ’ ll be 80 bucks.
I guess not.
Would you please let me know when we get there?
Go ahead. It's for your reference. While you are at it, make me a special agenda and don't forget to have enough room at the side for notes.
I have never thought that swimming can bring us so many benefits. I only know that swimming in great waves and deep running water can train people's spirits, and enable people to be fearless of the hardships, dangers and difficulties and become brave and staunch.
Okay. The library's beside the baker's. I'd better take back the videos we borrowed last week. They're overdue.
You'll never be in shape until you eat less and take more exercise.
Yeah. I tried to quit last month, and I thought it was going to be easy, but it turns out that I'm still smoking.
I'm wearing my heavy jacket.
I really enjoy it, especially when it ends up tasting good!
All these memories of prom night came back to me. I had to be alone. You remember that night?
Rock ' n'Roll, I guess.
If you want to speed up your system, you ’ Ve got to clean it up first.
When poyou have to see her?
Did you take some sort of art class or something?
I knew the delivery was slow but I figured the price would win it for me.
So far I haven ’ t met any particular kind. However, I may rule out those who prefer chatting to working.
That's what I did.
I'm sorry, sir.
You know, that ’ s going to be a tremendous change for me. Because I never exercise.
And I heard that Italian men have very active libidos.
Thank you. This should only be a few minutes. If you would like, there is coffee by those sofas over there.
Yeah, you ’ re a pretty big guy. I play goalie, myself.
Well, yes, but now we have six offices in California alone.
Good morning, welcome to Bank of the USA. How may I help you today?
Yes, your seat is confirmed on that flight. Pls arrive at the airport one hour before departure.
I will. Thank you for all.
I just got a call from Mrs. Fitzgerald. See what your Willie has just done.
What does she look like, though?
I ’ m supposed to be going to shanghai.
They must be your parents, what do they do?
What do you usually do in your work time?
Hold on a second, please. I'll see if he's in. I'm sorry, Mr.Baker had just gone out. Who's calling?
Me too. Send you a kiss...
Pleased to meet you too, Ms Jenson.
You got it. All right, Let's go back to school.
I didn't see it.
What was that noise?
How much is it for one night? We only need it for tonight. We're going to continue our trip in the morning.
Do not worry. Today will be easier.
What? Not my Dad, I hope! ?
October 25th around 2:00 in the afternoon.
Hello, I was just looking for the guide 。
You mean the room 1818?
It's 7388-2424- 3535-1818 and the expiration is 05/08.
Sounds nice. What about classes?
what about going on a picnic?
OK! Do you take your bank card or bankbook with you?
Well, I can help you pack. We should start looking for a new place for you ASAP.
There are several tiny countries in the world too. Countries like Monaco are smaller than many cities.
That's right. And I'm going to be Vice President of Marketing.
Sounds like it was a close game.
That's exactly when I'll be away. It sounds ideal, as long as the landlord agrees.
You are under arrest, sir. You have the right to remain silent. You better not pout, you better not cry. Anything you say can and will be used against you. You have the right to an attorney, if you cannot afford one, the state will appoint one for you.
Yes, I did, Ms. Chen.
No. Worse than that. I have a flu. I'm in bed with a fever.
I think that we should leave 10 %.
I'm sorry we can't now.
What do I have to do next?
When will that be ready?
Did you play a lot of games when you were little?
Oh, I ’ m sorry I can ’ t because I have to do some housework.You can ask Jenny to go with you
Oh, I don't know. I'd buy a big house with a garden for my wife and kids, I suppose. But it's difficult to imagine having a lot of money.
First, why don't you tell me what you need, such as how big a room, where you want to live, whether you want to live downtown, and what you like to do. Then I can figure out which apartment is most suitable for you.
Well, how long will it take to arrive in Shenzhen?
That's wonderful, sir. Now, here's your key. Should you need anything, just dial 0.
Yes, very. Believe it or not, it will cost you more than one hundred dollars.
That's exactly how I feel.
Fair to middling. A little hard to appreciate.
I see what you mean. He ’ s really cute. How old is he?
Room 1019, tomorrow at seven thirty. Ok, we will give you a call in the morning.
I promise. We're only going for a walk to get some exercise and to get some things done that we haven ’ t had time for.
That's perfect! Can you say that again and record it for me?
No, I hope not. I want to have a deck chair and enjoy the crossing.
Yeah, I'm not too worried about Vince, but I'd hate to face Zina if we don't deliver...
Can I have apple pie with ice cream?
Doctor, I have a bad cough and a headache.
I suppose so. Hair cut, please.
I went straight to university afterwards. What about you?
really? It sounds interesting.
I am an Assistant Electronics Engineer.
I ’ m worried that what I say will not make sense.
that sounds like fun.
Is she alright?
Ah, Canberra is the capital city. But is not the biggest city. Sydney is the biggest city. Canberra was made sort of by the politicians so Sydney wouldn't get to crowded. It's a separate territory.
Well I am used to that, Mr. Parsons, so that ’ s not really a shock for me.
No, thanks. I'm going home. My wife's expecting me.
Can you recommend some must-try?
Exactly, you know, water ballet puts dancing, music and swimming together.
And all these other things, pizza and movies for instance--how much of a discount do I get on that stuff?
We have Honda, Citroen and Toyota. Which make and model do you prefer?
Yes! Let ’ s go sailing and water skiing. That ’ s so exciting.
I would like to have a hamburger.
I'm sorry, I've lost my tags and receipt. What can I do about it?
It's not easy to find. Anyway, you can come to my home after school today and try.
Me too. I like the festival best of all.
Okay. I ’ ll have them brought to your room right away.
Can I have Mr. J. Smith paged? He said he'd be in the main dining room. I'm Mr. J. B. White.
It's absolutely free?
How many of you, please?
Thank you very much for your evaluation. I also like this job very much.
I'd like to call on you this weekend. I just want to a drop in for a chat.
May I try it?
I want to change rooms. In fact, I want a refund for tonight!
Ok. You're right. She's a psycho.
Then shall we make preparations together?
Yes, I even can't fall asleep these days.
I guess you can ’ t do anything until after dark then.
No, thank you. I'll take an aspirin and see how it goes.
Maybe that's true for some positions, but I think the marketing and sales staff would definitely not agree. They dress for success! You can't go out on a sales call if you are dressed in jeans. It's just not respectful to you client.
Naughty? I'm naughty? I'm just clever. So I only do the things I am interested in.
I want to be here tomorrow. What are your business hours?
OK. Can you tell me the delivery time?
Can you tell me the best way to look for an apartment?
I'd like to say good-bye to everyone.
Would you please wait this letter to see with the postages?
Organic Chemistry is my specialty.
How about forty-five?
For each month you would have to pay $ 1050.
You ’ ll have 10 days paid vacation every year.
But I need it. Please. Refill it for me just this once. I can go to the doctor around ten days from now. Then I'll have another prescription.
Oh, she is going to be a great mother.
You can see it tomorrow.
Then, by sea, please.
I would too.
So you will continue to study for a master's degree?
That ’ s great! Do you have any plans?
Yes, I have it right here. I'm so sorry about this.
Come on.We ’ Ve been through this already! Look, I know the adjustment was hard when you first got here, but we agreed that you were gonna try and deal with it.
What do you make?
What kind of visuals should I use to support the presentation? Do you think I should use PowerPoint?
That's for the hotel restaurant. You had five meals here.
I'm not ready to go to sleep. I'm not tired.
oh dear. Well, I suppose they will do for now. do you ever dust in here? It seems a bit dusty in here.
I surely will. How much is this wood carving?
That sounds like fun. But where can I get clothes that old?
It's going to rain.
Why can I learn it?
Howard is eighty percent black. But there are whites, and even Asians here. Thankfully, it's also coed.
All right, but I'll be back again for the Autumn Fair. And then I hope we can see eye to eye about our commission and the terms of the agency.
I heard that James was fired because he got a keep back of 20 thousands dollars from a vender.
It looks very nice and the food looks delicious.
I ’ Ve been having trouble breathing lately.
Well, you're in the right store. If they don't have it, no one will.
Are you free this evening, Li?
May I know your flight number, please?
Do you know that I fell in love with you at the first sight then?
It’s interesting that Americans work very hard at their jobs, do not take naps during the day, and yet they can be so heavy.
yes. this must be a huge difference.
No, thanks Mom. I'd like some toast and chicken wings.
No. That ’ s what is surprising me.
Yes, I'd like to book a table for two this evening.
No idea. Your guess is as good as mine.
I mean, in Milwaukee there is no good Chinese food.So we miss the food in Taiwan too much.Sometimes we just have to drive down here to Chicago to find something better.
But I still get stuck on the different tones.It drives me crazy.
My immediate family is quite small. It's just my older step-brother, my mom, my step-dad and me. How about you?
Well, this doesn't look too serious. Nurse, could you please get me a suture set?
I've always liked to draw and paint.
Yes, I know. I appreciate your invitation.
Shall we go to a movie tonight?
Please fetch me a glass of water. Thanks.
She is a real star. Not a onetime thing.
Wait a moment, I want to go to the toilet.
I ran into the guardrail when I turned to the left.
Hey, Mike. You've been surfing the Net for quite a while. What on earth are you searching for?
If you want to cross here, be my guest. I don ’ t feel like dodging cars and scooters!
I'm splendid. How about yourself?
We are terribly sorry for that.Could you please buy a new one and give us the receipt? We will refund the cost of the laundry and the new sweater.
Thanks, I'll keep that in mind.
Usually if your white count is off, the doctor suspects an infection.
Please help yourself to whatever you like, don't be shy.
Well, we have always dreamed of owning our own home, but real estate in this area is extremely expensive.
I thought this was the emergency room.
How do you feel?
I don't think so. Do you remember Bob Gain from Tulsa?
Do you think we'll make it?
that's fine. Do I get over-time for any extra hours that I work?
Sure. We've got a lot to do in a short time. We're planning to shut the line at midday on Wednesday and start up again at 6 pm the following day. We might need to extend the shut by about six hours.
Let me take a look... ID, yes, form completed, yes, well, it looks in order, Sir.
yes. That ’ s fine. We can book you a private room for up to ten people at that time.Could you give me your name please?
Exactly.That ' s the worst part.
I listen to music and read.
Give it to me.
So when did all this happen?
It is really early, isn't it?
I am not the person who committed that crime.
Well, make sure to put out the pepper and salt shakers. I don ’ t know if your brother is coming tonight so set an extra place mat just in case.
not really. Quite boring right now, actually. Mostly infomercials and public service announcements.
Thank you very much for your invitation.
No, I Don't. Either I shape up or my job is on the line.
I shopped there before too, but the food is better at Whole Foods.
How do you spell that?
I have made a reservation for this Sunday. My name is Bobby
I ate a burger just the other day.
You ’ re going to need to pay for the damage.
Mr. : But not big enough. And here is our computer room.
That sounds like a great price. I'll take one.
Bill, you know that work is not the same as exercise as it is stressful but not relaxing.And skipping meals will not help you lose weight.In fact your body will only store fat if you miss meals.
Well, it is a little more than we had planned.
That's good. Thank you.
He ’ s been on the gravy train these years, hasn ’ t he?
He loved his family and his countrymen and his freedom.
guess what? I've got great news!
Ok then. See you next weekend.
Can I take a picture?
Well. It's not my taste. Would you please bring me a short sleeve?
How much is the soft sleeper?
Watch your language.
So I've noticed. You are putting on a little weight, aren ’ t you?
Bob and I plan to play hockey in the morning.
Very well. You will need some stamps for the postcards and I need to weigh that package.
Everyone to some extent is allergic to alcohol.
What time should we meet?
You need to put 50 cents into the washer machine and a dollar into the dryer.
Why? Did tom pop the question?
Yes, of course. Do you want to join the day tour or the night tour?
I got major FOMO from missing that the conference.
Should I clean the windshield for you?
I have total faith in Obama as our President.
They're smoking pot. Don't worry about it.
George speaks Japanese better than Frank.
Sounds bad! Lucky you! You didn ’ t take that job. I think a good office environment is also important to work efficiently.
Really? What kind? A girl left this word to me, and I thought she was in Hong Kong.
You'd better spell that!
So he talks about you behind your back?
We have a rather comprehensive subway system here. You can get almost anywhere rather quickly on a subway, especially at this time of day when the traffic is heavy.
But it's so thin. There's no way that it comes with a CD-ROM.
How about this floor lamp?
No problem, sir. There's a copy machine in our computer lab.
That ’ s fine. My credit card number is...
I've got three guests today. We'd like a table next to the window.
I ’ m sorry, Clint. Maybe I didn ’ t make myself clear enough. We should get together to discuss this.
I ’ m reporting from Channel 5 News.
I don't think we have any food.
We bought 1,000 sets of chemical instruments from you, but there are 40 not up to the standard.
Of course. How about Toby? Should we call him?
Wow! That's cool. So, let me give you some details about the deck I want.
that's OK. I'll try anything once, but sometimes, once is enough!
That's good, we can share what we have. Here we are. You go ahead.
Hello, Kate! How are you doing?
Do you want to hang out tomorrow?
When you woke up, the water was coming out of the tub.
I call the landlord right now.
Could I reserve a table for Saturday, September 16th at 8: 00 p. m.?
Is there anything cheaper than that?
doctors have never disappointed me.
Minus the fee. Here are your dollars. Please sign here.
I am looking for a more challenging position. I can ’ t grow anymore in my current job.
Taylor? Taylor! Is this a joke? Is it really you? But... but... everyone said you were dead!
I want it enlarged to 5 inches.
I am sorry, I was too tired to fall asleep.
I am not sure what a home inspection is all about.
It's a cute little teddy bear!
10 pence off if you use this coupon.
I'm sorry, but you see, all the tables by the window are small, with up to 4 seats.
What records will I have to show to apply for unemployment benefits?
I'm pretty satisfied with it. I can broaden my experience, learn lots of new things, and have more development opportunities.
Okay. This trail looks the best. It's a little steep. But I'm sure it will be alright.
Yes, I would like to use the ATM to make a payment. But I need to pay 3 parties at once.
Well, I would say that I ’ m just drifting - - here, in the pool.
Sometimes you read about people who have been cruel to pets or other animals, but those stories are rare.
That's going to be about $ 2.48.
Sir, without happy guests, we are nothing.
I don't buy your story. Try not to have any more sick relatives this week, all right?
That purple one. I ’ m sorry... I ’ Ve never bought jewellery for anyone and I ’ m kind of nervous.
Why are you nervous?
Not really, but they are on the rise.
She doesn't usually wear lipstick. She thinks it makes her nose look too big.
Mm... How do I get this ticket machine to work?
It costs ten cents a copy.
Umm... no... I make these in my workshop in the North Pole!
Hey, that's enough about my hair.
At seven, please.
Oh, don't you? God save me!
Hello. Front desk. How can I help you?
Please, Mummy. I found it this afternoon by the garbage bin. It was starving and looking for something to eat. Please! You see, it's so cute and tame.
Really? Where did you go?
Do you have a foreign tour?
Oh, nothing in particular, I guess. I always liked mathematics and tinkering with machines.
That, my dear, was classic sales technique delivered by a professional.
What is it about this job that appeals to you?
How about the rowing machine
No, nothing. It's thoughtful of you to call me again.
No cash today.
Yes, he knows I'm coming. Our meeting is set for 2 o'clock.
Well, sometimes, I think it ’ ll be nice to drive to work instead. We ’ ll see. Want to go for a ride?
C'mon, don't blame me! I thought it was a new camera. We could use it.We were even thinking about buying a camera. I don't understand how he could have such a perfect-looking box.
Moblogging? what does that mean?
that was a great dinner. I didn't know that you knew how yo cook.
That ’ s true. For the Junior Executive Room... three nights... yes, your bill should be $ 1,500
Thanks, Mark. I used to be a member of the school choir.
What should I drink then?
What will your major be?
At least, it is better than my boxed lunch at work. I'm so fed up with the bland food. Thank you for having lunch with me!
what do you think about the public service advertisement for quiting smoking?
Please put your name and address here. May I see your passport.
Is it harder than you thought?
What can I do with my baggage while I visit a few more tourist spots?
Where ’ d you meet him?
Yes. We say “ eat well and drink well. ”
Your confirmation number is PD672. Is there anything else I help you with?
That's OK. If you want the photo I will mail it to you.
This morning! No more overtime, and no more headaches!
Hello, Does my room have internet access?
Give me a sec.
Not yet, but I'm thinking of it. Have you bought one, Dad?
Here ’ s your ticket and change.
Sure. We have to have something to lie on while we're catching some rays.
I used to live in that area.
That ’ s 850 grams. The coasts depends on how you would like to send it.
Helen, did you hear I ’ m having a party? Next Saturday in my place.
I can't agree to that. My company will have to pay for both sending them and bringing them back.
Yes, of course. It seems made to measure.
How did you get it?
Will everything be cleared from my record?
i was just opening up an attachment in an email about winning the lottery.
How do you deal with those who you think are difficult to work with?
Here is the 6,100 RIB.
Will you be able to make it?
Can you find some way for an earlier delivery?
Is everything all right?
Oh! I just drop in on him for a chat.
You ’ ll only have to pay the initial fee.
oh, they look nice. May I try that back one on?
I know. But hard work pays off, you know.
Sure we do! We have the best tailors in the country! What is it that you need exactly?
If I remember correctly, there's a quiz show.
Oh, man. I hope you get to feeling better.
How many credits are you taking this semester?
I sure hope so.
Do you play basketball well?
Not tonight, thank you.
Sure. How about my passport?
Mary likes mountain climbing.
I am, but there is too much material to cover. I ’ ll be writing forever, and Grant only wants five to seven pages.
Do you still remember Justin?
Certainly, Ms. Ransom. Do you have an order number?
Oh, that's right. Renting is good!
But I make it.
Is there a laundry room in the basement?
That's very kind of you. Thank you.Er... have you got a pencil?
Here's your money, your card and your passport. Please double check the amount for me.
I'll be here for about a year.
I ’ m sure you never dare to go against your wife.
No, I ’ m afraid not.
O. K. How do I get the manufacturer ’ s warranty?
That's all for today, so park right there.
Good idea. Thanks a billion.
Heck no, we doubled the price, but because it's you, I'll let you have'em at 50 off.
I have enjoyed talking with you too. Thank you.
You got it! In a sense, it has become a byword for Chinese sport.
Look, there are other ways to quit. You can try the nicotine patch, or nicotine chewing gum. We spend a fortune on cigarettes every month and now laws are cracking down and not allowing smoking in any public place. It’s not like you can just light up like before.
I see. So should I get a bottle of Chardonnay? That's a white wine, right?
Not necessary. If we use a realtor to find a house, it will be more expensive.
The 19:00 train.
That's true. Here are some samples of hairstyles. What do you think about this one?
Oh, here it is. Patulin. Oh, no!
I understand. Now, you're saying that you've already used up all your amenities?
Hey, Tom, did you enjoy your lunch?
No. I ’ Ve not had the pleasure of meeting her yet.
But you filled the cartons too full and the straps are not strong enough. When they were rehandled, some of them were broken.
You miss me, don't you?
Sure, I'll go get it for you.
Really? Let me have a try.
That's possible, Bill.But the price would have to have been a lot lower, like around fifty cents per unit.
She had to go to the hospital.
Right. Is there anything else that can be done there?
I'm just going to let you go.
No, that's enough. T hank you.
Oh, hey, how about a new car? They've got easy loans now.You ' d feel so good driving a new car.
Yes. We all loved the celebration of our city's birthday. It made the people feel so proud of our city.
Why are you so kind to him?
We'd like to invite you for our dress party tomorrow evening, are you free?
Let's get started. First, select the service you require. That's household bill payment for you. Then we select the type of bill, so that's landline... here you go. Your bill for this month comes to 87.42 RIB. The money will come out of your account and go straight to the phone company.
Oh, it's no problem.It ' s OK.You know, it only happened once.
Are you looking for part time or full time employment?
Would you like cheese on that?
The deadline is normally no more than 5 years with the interest adopted according to the corresponding lending rates announced by the PBC.
Hi Martha. Everything is perfect.
I work very hard and that's it, you know, practice makes perfect.
Yes, madam. May I help you?
It's a pity.Say, how about a place near enough?
I need you to teach me how to drive.
I.. I don ’ t feel like saying it.
Well, the bill is paid by month. That's probably the only thing that I like about a take-out restaurant.
Well, the bartender wouldn't give me the pitcher of beer.Anyway.He said it was too close to closing time.
Let's line up here. This line seems a little shorter.
Yes, I know that. So I want him to have a good VCR to use.
do you have to pay utilities on top of your monthly rent?
Thanks. You have a good one, too.
Usually be adults, you don't have kids have a big party in get dressed up too.
I've looked at your units, and am very happy with them. Your goods are all far above standard quality.
Oh, we're lucky today, aren't we?
That's not how this game works.
Maybe. Oh, I see the Jungle Flying Train. I once rode it. It was very exciting.
Pleased to see you. Welcome to our company. I hope you have a good day.
That's a great idea. I'm going to do the same.
Is there a problem with your account?
Hey, This is your order.
I've ordered savory pork and coleslaw.
I must catch the nine-thirty Train.
I have never done that myself. But I hear it is very interesting. You two should go.
No. This time I'll try Chinese wine.
Time for what?
My name is David. Nice to meet you, too.
Yes, I ’ m also going to watch the triple jump and the high jump.
Actually, I don't know exactly. Do you have anything recommended?
You just said your English needs work, yes?
When there is a computer available, I will call you.
Somewhere new. It's a great place to pick up chicks.
They usually go outside to play firecrackers and fireworks.
Here is the menu.
There's some professionals for both flower arrangement and tea ceremony. So you need to go to a school, yes, and learn from your teacher and their hierarchy and the organization and you need to pass each test to go, climb up the ladder in the hierarchy.
We usually eat chicken, pork and beef.you eat these meat a lot in your country too, don't you?
My parents just didn ’ t handle my older sister very well, and because of that, they want me to be more independent. They think that It’s important that I should learn how to live on my own.
It is 15 minutes ' drive.
Yes, it is a three-year, but you can renew the visa each year in the States. It is our usual procedure.
All right. I will get them for you.
Thank you. I am glad that everything turned out so well.
That's good service. Do we have to pay extra for that?
Yes, that was the first thing we did. We went all the way to the top. There were visitorsfrom all over the world taking photos there.
Our monthly interest is 1.5 % of the outstanding balance. Would you please fill out the application the form?
Generally speaking, we provide bikes for both gentlemen and ladies, size 19, 21, 23, 25 and 27 inches. We can vary the colors according to the buyer's requirements. Here are the catalogues and the pattern books. They will give you a rough idea about our products.
Oh, no. Is it serious?
The reason I'm calling is because Ms. Collins will not be able to call you back until next week.
Thank you. How much is the fare?
You said it. Many parents just don ’ t know how to educate their children.
He wanted to take it home yesterday.
You look pale today.
How many rooms are there?
Just put your card into the machine.
Great. I will make my reservations as necessary.
Do you like reading magazines?
At 10 o'clock.
Hello, is Jack there?
I need help using the washer and dryer.
Thanks.How would you like them?
What's your number?
That is a long way to go. It is so kind of you to help me. Thank you very much.
Great. What types of things will we do at Lushun Falls?
What do you think of AC milan and the team of Argentine?
What is your complaint about?
Well, would you be horribly offended if I invited you to a Christmas party at my house?
What makes you think you are able to do the job?
Cindy has reserved a table for us at a newly opened western restaurant downtown. She said the environment there was really pleasant.
Apple pie is my favorite.
You are right. I won't cry anymore.
It's excellent. A friend of mine had her wedding reception there and said it was perfect, though very expensive.
Have fun! I plan to spend some more time with my grandkids, and I might even go back to school.
I'm sorry. I didn't reconfirm in time and they gave away half of the seats.
I'll be at your house at about 5:30. Happy birthday.
I guess it is. The restaurant is on the second floor. Please enjoy your dinner, sir!
I've only driven a car one time.
Either way. I don ’ t care.
That sounds like a good idea!
A single room with a front view is 100 dollars per night, one with a rear is 80 dollars.
Yeah... You can make photocopies and send faxes over there.
oh, I guess I missed that.
I see. Please call us again for any further reservation.Thanks for calling us.
Your tie is handsome.
Sounds good, and so, why do you want to work with them?
What do we need for the barbecue?
Oh, no. I know how insensitive he can be. What has he done now?
Whatever. Have a drink of water.
Well, that too. I mean that it's kind of sweet. See if you can guess what's in it.
Have you watched any of the talent shows on TV?
Hi there, Philip. How ’ s everything going?
I see your point. That's to say s 611 each set. Still it's much higher than the market price. Could you see your way to reduce the price, Jack?
Karaoke has become a major entertainment. I wonder why.
Yes, I have the Tour Guide Certificate.
Would you change it to a new one?
I want to do everything I can.
Ok, but it's only for this time.
OK, I'll go to your office at that time.
Good evening! I don't believe we've met before. May I introduce myself? My name is Jack.
OK. Just think for a bit. I'll go help another customer. I'll be right back.
Tell me before you want me to stop.
Yes, thirty-eight point seven. Do you have a headache, chest or throat pain?
Excuse me, is this the way to the Great Wall?
ok, Nathaniel. I'll have Ms. Collins call you back sometime tonight before 6 pm.
Of course, tomorrow evening there will be a most exciting game.
Yes, I suppose I should get used to it.But I'm not really willing to spend more than 6000 dollars for this.We haven't even opened yet.
Good morning, Passport, please.
My friend and I was argued with each other. For this, I ’ m very sad. Because I don ’ t want to lose this friend.
I wonder if they have my size.
Wow, it's already 10:00 AM. He must have been up late last night.
That will be fine with me.
No, it's my brother's. I'm staying with him for a while.
I need some help catching up. Are you good at typing or could you help me xerox?
I want to talk about this year ’ s election.
Nice to meet you, Mr. Peter. I ’ m Wang Sian. I ’ Ve come for an interview as requested.
Don't act like this. Please have good thoughts in your mind. What's behind you?
So you have seen her around?
Because most of the first English immigrants who came to the United States were Puritans.
OK, then you can buy a pair of jogging shoes.Here are jogging shoes.Which pair do you like best?
what a nice uniform!
Fine, thanks. I've been busy lately.
Well, you have to make sure that your anti-virus software is updated regularly, yours wasn't up to date, that ’ s probably what was causing your problems.
You have got to be talented.
I don't know. Check the flyer or check with the produce person.
You know, a little piece of chocolate here, some chips on the side, candy now and then...
Maybe you are right. Well, you can talk with them.
He just knows either by your excellent performance at work or by the annual review.
This looks great. When was it built?
Mr. Black, when is the earliest shipment you can make?
What methods do you use to conserve water?
yes, my father gave it to me for my birthday. Do you like it?
Yes, all the cabins are fit for two.
It was around one thirty in the morning. I guess I didn ’ t fall asleep till 3 because those numbers were involving in my mind. I just couldn ’ t stop thinking about them.
Take it easy. It's not serious. You should keep the wound very clean.
Oh, good. Irene, can you tell me why you plan to quit being a sales manager to work here as my assistant? Don't you like your present job?
Only four hours.
Ok, is that all?
Do you mind if I smoke?
OK. Does your present employer know that you are going to leave?
I don't have any.
Looks can be deceiving.
It’s nice to meet you! Guess we ’ ll be working together.
For pick - up or delivery?
I drink a lot of milk. I drink milk almost every day.
they are all pretty easy-going. It's a very friendly place to work.
Well, this is a French wine, so they don't always specify the varietal on the label. The French believe that the soil a grape is grown in is one of the most important factors in the final flavor of the wine. This wine is probably a blend of a few different types of grapes, mostly Viognier, I'd guess.
As you know, we also take orders for clothes made according to specifications.
He certainly looks interested, doesn ’ t he? Shall we invite him over to our table?
Hm, they may ask you what kind of salary you have in mind, or simply tell you what the company is offering. I think the latter is more likely for a starting position, especially if you have little experience. And if they are seriously considering hiring you, they will probably want to know when you would be available to start work. And basically, that's about it.
Danny, back to your position. Move!
Ok, now could you fill out this registration form?
Don't worry. Let's check out some other schools.
But he has to stick to it and to it long enough.
Mom, Happy mother's Day! Here's my card.
You know, if I can keep up my workouts, I think I have a chance in 2004.
It's still available. Do you want to see it?
Tell me about it, will you?
I'm sure we can work something out.
Yes, are advance tickets for ' Nut croakers ' still available?
Of course, please.
It's worth every penny of it.
I'd like to start this interview with some questions. Why do you think you are qualified for this position?
Please fill out the form sir.
But you could have saved money.
Fine, and you?
Have you decided what you are going to take next semester?
But I just want to give her some tips.
I am going to contact the sellers immediately. They were looking forward to your acceptance.
I don ’ t like a lot of clutter, so I wouldn ’ t have lots of things out. I would have a few vases on the mantel piece and some pictures of my family on the walls, but other than that, most things would be kept in closets.
What time does the train for Boston leave?
$ 120?! Then I should go and see what I can get...
That's right. But don't worry ; it's a very simple procedure.
I still can't believe it! So, did you go to cooking school or something?
What kind of role do foreign student advisers play?
Well, there ’ s a wildlife documentary on Tv in a few minutes. Shall we?
Well, thank you very much, Mr. Sun. I'll let you know the result of the interview as soon as possible. Goodbye.
Yes, I am.
There are no countries marked on the map.
I think I will try some lobster, and give me some green salad together.
If you take a 75 % position in the venture, we would take a back seat to you.
Well, I hope scientists don ’ t decode to make a clone of me in the future! I wouldn ’ t like to be the subject of an experiment.
You know, it is the best seller for this year. It has had its fifth impression since its publication early this year.
So cool. I want to be a back-packer when I grow up.
I ’ m going to the hospital.
Why do you wash here?
Excuse me. Could you give me some directions?
Yes, I'd like to know if there would be any future opportunities for specific training.
Do you offer a safety deposit box rental service here?
I have to be there before 17 00.
Well, it all depends on traffic from other arriving aircraft.
We've got plenty of inflatables, but if you want to sit on a chair, you'll have to bring your own sunlounger.
We still have one more day to go before we return home. What will we see tomorrow?
No where special. I was just taking a walk.
All you need to do is sign up at any one of our branches and you can use the service right away.
Can you take a little advice from a friend?
Do you want something to drink?
That would definitely make a difference. But Vince already said no.
Please tell her to give Colin a call when she gets back. She has my number.
Yes, you are right. But one should keep learning daily to maintain our keen mental power expand our intellectual capacity. Constant learning drive us to Sharp our power of reasoning, analysis and judgement.
really? That ’ s fantastic. What kind of business is it?
why didn ’ t you answer my question?
I see. How do you like the game?
We could share a room! It would be fun. And we could do some traveling around Korea. You could see for yourself what life in a big family is like!
Do you want to know what really motivates Vince to be nice to me?
I need some US Dollars.
Let ’ s fix it at seven o'clock, OK?
How long have you been on the bus?
The public schools in the United States are free to everyone and there is no cost to the student. In most states, even the textbooks are free. There are no restrictions as to color, race, or religion.Any student wishing to attend the public schools may do so.
You'd spend 30 % of your time on the computer. You may be bored with a job like that.
I like the fabric, but I don ’ t like the style.
Yes, I'm student of grade 3 in the university majoring in economics.
Generally speaking, a CV or resume is made up of 6 parts, personal information, educational experience, practical experience, personal skills, self-evaluation and job intentions.
No. It was the only dish she wasn't good at. So we could use you as the new head chef...
All right. I'm nearly ready. What time does the bus leave?
Four by six will do.
It has been pleasant talking with you.
What would you like to go with your steak?
I think that that would work out quite well as an ending for your resume.
Well, we all get Labour Day off as a holiday, the real purpose of the holiday is to remember all the people who do manual or other hard labor. It's to celebrate those who work doing what other people might not be willing to do. I think we ought to do something in honor of the common worker.
A bank's acceptance will add to the costs of our imports. You can rest assured that we will accept the draft and honour it when it comes due.
What did you find?
I don ’ t think so. I think cats are sweet.
I just happen to have a question for you guys. Why do the Chinese cook the vegetables? You see what I mean is that most vitamin are destroyed when heated.
Did you go to school here?
I spent over three weeks sewing sequins on a coat.
Yes, I'd like to check out now. My name's Adams, room 312. Here's the key.
I agree with you. I think we ’ ll play much better than before.
Yes, he's married.
Yes, I've just come from the States, yesterday in fact. I'm still a bit confused about the time.
Do you receive checks?
Does 7 o'clock suit you?
My name is Jessica. What's yours?
Well, that's a bit stiff. Do you have some cheaper ones?
Good. That ’ s something unusual.
It’s rash. I ’ d better take you to see the doctor. How did you get that bruise on your leg?
I only paid two dollars for mine.
I'm planing to go balling tonight. Tomorrow I was hoping to see a movie. What about you?
I ’ m sorry. I didn ’ t know that.
And for your main course? I can recommend the sizzling beef.
We'll take this steak dinner.
Mr.James. I know that office hour is up now, but could you work during the weekend and finish the translations?
Oh, I'm so sorry. May I ask what you ordered again?
We ’ re trying to get donations.
Haven ’ t you heard? Richard was fired by our manager.
Well. You must report that It’s been stolen. And give the police description of your bag. You ’ d better go to the local police station tomorrow morning.
Hello, Mr. Kramer. Could you spare a minute?
How much is the brown one?
We have a very wide selection of colors.And our eye shadow is specially designed to moisturize the skin.So it is very gentle on your eyelids. Would you like to sample some?
waiting for someone.
Let's start to study how to use computers, Paubler.It ' s good to know that a computer has two major parts, the hardware and the software.
Chris, where are you going?
Are they from Taiwan?
Hey, I'll go with you.
go on. Take a chance. You could just hint at your idea. The client should be smart enough to take a hint.
Well, haven't you heard?
Come over here. I will test your eyes. First cover your left eye like this, and when I point, please read the chart from the top, and go as far as you can, telling me which way the “ E ” points.
Well-done, please.
I like it. Naturally it can arouse your feelings.
Yes, it is. It has some really good articles in it.
he hoped to live in the Korean way and asked me to give up working and stay at home to take care of the family.
Are there any cities where it rains a lot?
Why didn ’ t you answer my question?
My mother-in-law just went into the hospital in L.A.Hank and I will be flying there tonight.
Ok, I will take good care of it.
That's the reason it was such a great game.
Freeze! Police! Put your hands over your head.
Yes. Here it is. I bought them last week.
Hmmm.Not good. They ’ re too tight.The length is right, but the shoe is too narrow and It’s pinching my toes. And there ’ d be no room for my insoles. You know what? I don ’ t think I have the patience for this today. They just don ’ t make shoes like they used to. I ’ ll come back another time.
Online chat? Aren't you afraid of meeting bad people who pretend to be what they are not?
Yes, I will be home this afternoon.
If you give me your credit card, I can take care of it for you.
I bashed it against the chair in my room.
Hello sir, may I help you?
Yes, that's all in order. Let's get this processed for you, then.
The taxi will be ready when you are, sir.
The roof leaks when it rains, there is mold on the bedroom walls, and the dishwasher doesn ’ t work.
great. i am your lucky fellow then.
How did you know?
You need to make one to come down and fill out your paperwork.
It's inevitable. Their love wasbuilt on the sand, and this is why their marriage has landed on the rocks.
what ’ s the kitchen like? I know both you and your wife like to cook.
Because your travel agency has a good fame in this market ; what's more, all the staff here are working very hard. I like doing some challenging job.
I'd like to apply for a credit card. Can you help me with my application?
Would you tell me when we get there?
Oh, no. He ’ s an executive for a large computer company. I saw an interview with him on TV yesterday. They were asking his opinion about future uses for computers.
Is this seat taken?
Yes. I hope it will remain fine all the way.
I got it from the cafeteria.
Actually, fruits and veggies are really good for you.
Of course. Registering for classes is not something you want to miss.
He was the best candidate this year.
As long as you don ’ t overdo it, a glass of wine a day should be OK.
Hmm. Perhaps it should be the only important thing. But it isn't. Not in this company.
Let's make it the first item of business in our next meeting.
No, I'm not. I'm staying in bed.
Well, the best way to avoid serious illnesses is to find out about them early. So, try to come at least once a year for your own good.
The vegetarian dishes are at the last pages of the menu.
I want to open a saving account, sir. What's the proper procedure?
Mr. Black has been getting a little on the side.
I found mine at IKEA.
Thank god! A car's leaving. It's my turn!
I'll see if she is in.
Well, I eat a lot more tofu, beans, nuts and some fish.
Well, let me have a look. Will you sit down in this chair and open your mouth wide?
Maybe they will send me e-mail to inform the result. Let me check my mail-box again.
May I have your name and room number, please?
Even if I was seriously ill you couldn't spare a moment.
Here it is, sir.
She's fairly tall, maybe 2 inches taller than me.
Ah! That sounds interesting.
Good day, what can I do for you?
Hi, I'd like two tickets to Providence, please.
Yes, what a wonderful meal!
What color is it?
Have you had it a long time?
Are you sure you're using the right program?
Then how do you explain so many rich people committing suicide?
I will be there after 20 minutes.
I think you're right. Let's go.
No, I ’ d like to know something about contact lenses.
Great idea! As long as I don't get food poisoning! So what is on the menu tonight?
Turn on the shower.
Sure. We can walk around to that path that leads into the woods there. Hey, look! There are some wild ducks over there in the reeds.
No doubt, it's not a simple thing to put on a ' phantom show '.
Relief agencies report that many civilians are in desperate need of food and shelter. Several European countries have agreed to send aid, but are afraid that their planes will be shot down.
This scientists thing is so sus.
Yes. If you do not damage the apartment, you will get your security deposit back when you move out.
Yes, of course. I will book the tour.
Excuse me, where is my cabin?
Yeah, they all come from a very ancient time.
Thank you. What shall I do when I check out these books?
It's 626-555-1739.
Oh, really? Do you know which company it's from?
Are you still interested in it?
But newspapers do get some extra income by offering space for ads.
Then, buy a bottle of soft drink.
That's fine with me, but we'll have to get there early. Because after 8 pm, there is always a long line.
How would you like to send it?
It gives your skin a very natural healthy look.
Can you tell me how many credits would be enough for a Bachelor's degree?
I've finished my white clothes. I need to wash the rest.
Yes, I haven't seen you for four years.How time flies!
Can I take a shower?
Kitty's? He sure gets around, doesn't he?
I hear you ’ re taking a music class. I didn ’ t know you ’ re interested in it.
What are the allowances?
I'll be there.
That ’ s good. It’s good to hit the books, but you need to get out once in a while.
Good. We also have health insurance, bonus and paid vacation. When can you begin to work?
I hate to disappoint you, Mr. Brown, but if that's the case, we have no alternative but to cover our requirements elsewhere. Do think it over, please. We sincerely hope our discussion will come to a successful conclusion.
If you don't think twice about the rides and go on every ride that you can, you'll have a good time.
I'm not sure, but I think you turned right when you should have turned left on the flyover bridge.
Really? Have you checked everything carefully?
How are you?
I really wanted to get into NYU.
I eat more and more these days. And it puts even more weight on me.
Fine, let's go.
Ugh... So how long is this going to take? An hour?
It's ok. It seems we have a lot in common.
What is the customer's name, and what is his room number?
Thanks, thanks a lot and thanks a million.
Thank you. Your cash back is $ 13. Pull into a parking space. And we'll bring out your fries in two minutes.
I just think it will be a little difficult for her to be away from home for so long right off the bat.
OK. Then I will clean the table.
I can ’ t believe you didn ’ t know when the elections were.
We've got a spot in Olympic Stadium sponsoring one of a team's equipment, then a rally for cancer research, and a connection to the inner-city education program.
Wow! What ’ s the hold up?
What's the minimum amount I can deposit in an account?
If we think positively, office love can be beneficial to company.
What are spring and autumn like?
Here we can exchange HAD, USD and Euros. Which do you require?
It’s called Counter Strike. It’s a first person shooter game. It’s awesome. It’s a multi player game where you can go online and compete against players from all over the world.
No, there's a definite difference. You know, the stockholders are the people who own the company... they're the financial control system. Then there's the CEO — the chief executive officer. He's the hot shot, the main guy who is the boss. If there is only one person with absolute power in the organization, everyone knows that the power will go to their head. It's too dangerous. That's the reason for a Board of Directors. The board is made up of people who are experts in the industry. They could be related to the organization, but more commonly, they are independent and non-biased.
Well, our manufacturers are fully committed at the moment. I'm afraid it's very difficult to improve any further on the time.
That ’ s probably because she wants you to read the book first.
I will. Bye.
You're right. Thank you for your cooperation.
Of course, could you help to blow up some balloons?
I ’ m sorry. The application for this position has closed.
Sure. I have it right here. 232-2453. If that one doesn ’ t work, try 232-2456.
They are already working three shifts a day to step up production as new orders keep pouring in.
Anyone home? Jen!
Yeah, I really don't want a lot of drama in the apartment. It's important that we don't get on each other's nerves.
not really. I may have some occasionally for a chance. But I don't indulge myself too much.
Yes, but 4 of them are broken. Can you send someone here?
Why don't you turn off the TV and get outside? You need to get some fresh air.
Oh, thanks. Mmm, hmm, creamy texture, very smooth...
The ball is a different shape in rugby, isn ’ t it?
Seemingly there is no turning back. I have to face it somehow.
All right, here is your ballot card.
Me, too, haha.
Could I be of any help to you?
Oh, I've heard a lot about the Chinese herbal medicine. I believe it will work.
Alright. And I want to consider your eye shadow too. Do you have a color chart can look at?
Excuse me, are you Jane?
All right. What if we leave your bangs straight and just perm the sides and back?
Do I have to use a whisk or can I use the electric mixer?
that's a good idea. You have plenty of experience in the tourism industry, don't you?
I will come clean as soon as we get to safety, OK? For now, you have to trust me, please! I would never do anything to hurt you.
Then you'll have to think of something better, Robert.
My name is Rudy Randolph. I'm at 818-555-1234. The reservation was for April 9.
Thank you. Please bring me some paper napkins.
OK, could you give me your details and I'll see if it has cleared. We need your banking details and some ID. A passport or something like that?
OK. Commodity inspection is really an important part of our trade contract.
Well. I think IQ matters more. But it won't work without EQ.
I ’ m actually thinking of completely refurnishing the kitchen and getting a new stove, oven, dishwasher and trash compacter.
Mmmm... it's hard to say. I like golf a lot-but I guess I like tennis better.
Ah, yes, here you are Ms. Gleason. You reserved a single, right?
Look at this one sir, eight thousand dollars were spent in one night at a place calledWild Things?!
Why do you want to go to the U. S.?
Yes, here you are. And here's my credit card, too.
Yes. Look, it is on my desk.
What are you thinking of doing?
Oh, sorry about that.We ' ll get it fixed as soon as we can.
For what? Are you taking up painting?
Certainly, what day were you thinking of?
And he may cash in on people whenever chances are provided.
It was the best game ever.
it's got its own library, theatre, swimming pool, and a guest house. The house itself has about ten different rooms that are all hooked up to computers so you can get things done in each room through
Thanks, I feel the same way.
Mmmm. I ’ m not sure if we have you down here. How do you spell your last name?
Alison, would you like to have some more?
No, thank you.It looks a bit too dangerous for me.
No, this is the second time.
That ’ s amazing! You got a good pay here, didn ’ t you?
I think a white shirt with a blue tie looks nice on you.
Not only is it affordable, but it comes with all the appliances.
I ’ d like to make a collect call to Beijing China, please.
Sorry, darling, I forgot.
How long has it been on for?
So what did you do?
Sure.Do you want an acoustic one or an electric one?
You can have a different carpet, but you have to pay more if it costs more.
How do you like your name?
As a matter of fact, I'm from Taiwan.
The chicken and cheese quesadilla looks good. Is that pretty good?
Housekeeping, may I help you?
My mother was ill. I had to look after her.
I guess we should invite him. I just hope he doesn't start talking about Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger again.
You know on a date, they are going to dinner.
They look delicious. I think she'll be pleased.
Has this been a problem before?
How many TVs would your dream home have?
You mean, you like the pictures of the beautiful models... Hello?
Let's take a cab.
See you tonight then.
All right, if that would make you happy.
They are playing the wedding march, and I have felt tears.
I ’ m sorry to hear about that. Why don ’ t you join me for a hot cup of tea? It ’ ll be good for you!
Okay. I'll fax the itinerary to you immediately.
OK. Let ’ s invite all their little friends to come and celebrate.
I never knew there were so many fun things to do on a farm.
Don't I have any rights?
Yeah, their expressions were exactly the same!
Hard-boiled, please.
I'm going to try to find a place near the office.
If you refuse the blow, you'll receive a ticket and your vehicle will be impounded.
I'd like a bottle of juice.
There will be a party in my company ; what shall I wear?
The website will give you your results and then tell you what the normal range is.
Yeah, especially since Jack didn't take care of the plane reservations.
That's good. Do you suppose you will be back at company the day after tomorrow?
Just cats, but I don't think I was near any cats in the last couple of weeks.
I like the buffets they have, but if often order a la carte, because I don ’ t feel extremely hungry. I like the wine list there too.
Do you have any plans for Veteran ’ s Day?
I'm filthy rich! Haven't you heard about the MicroPower deal?
My manager jumped on me for my mistake today.
Do you have a map of the campus?
No way. I ’ m watching Ally McNeal. Go to John ’ s to watch the game.
Great. I have the banquet room reserved for a lunch on for Nika Corporation on the 2nd of December. May I have your name and contact information?
You're going to mop the floor until you can see your face in it!
I want to go four times a week, but I'm too lazy. Last week, I only went to workout once.
And you can hear singing and laughing everywhere! People are happy in autumn because autumn brings them harvest and richness and prosperity!
I'm afraid our hotel is fully booked on that night. Is it possible for you to change your reservation date?
I will have the green peas and make sure the beef is well done.
Oh. Take it easy. As I ’ Ve said in the interview, once you are employed, we ’ ll give you a probation period of three months. And now we need to sign a draft agreement for the probation period.
So, how about coming to the department store with me? I want to see if there are any new summer clothes on sale yet.
Excellent. I'll start practicing my dance moves.
Let me ask the old woman in that reception office.
I feel that people can love who they want.
Let me give you another ten dollars.
I ’ m Italian. Are you a teacher?
let me explain. I didn't mean to hurt you...
No way, if it still has 21.
2 weeks. Can I have a brochure of the sightseeing tours?
I'm sorry, but I can't! That's something my grandmother would sing!
Why don't you ask Bill if he can help?
We pitched a tent in the night, waiting for the sunrise. Wow! It was too beautiful.
What are you greatest strength?
You know how it is when you ’ re in a strange country. Everything is new, and you get tired and nervous sometimes. Then you worry about your family, about conditions back home, about your courses, about your money, about everything. I tried to fall asleep but I just had too much on my mind.
I know, darling. I must earn enough money to buy a car. I do a part-time job to increase my income. Don't worry, I will take care of myself.
Hmm. Hey, wait. This has an Apple on it. Is this an Apple computer?
All right. Let me prepare the supper.
It's so busy here.
Do you often exercise?
Wow. Look how polite your son has become.
I really appreciate your offer, but I have to decline it, because I have already taken another job which I prefer to work in.
You know, in a sense, a suits and ties are compulsory for male employees even in July, and no jewelry allowed for most of the female employees. Even the reasonable male leaf is returning the rule, isn ’ t that strict?
OK. I'll look after it then.
Well, the newspaper is over there. Look in the want ads, but I don ’ t know what you ’ re going to find without a college degree.
Open your mouth, please. Which one?
I think I got it on Saturday, but it just showed up today.
I heard that the owners must fix all of the problems before the escrow closes.
I want to try something exciting.
I'm not a very good sailor, either. My mother is a dreadfully poor sailor. In fact, she never takes a voyage unless she has to. I am better than that, and even on the Pacific. after ten days of it, I can still find my sea legs. Well, happily we shall have a smooth passage today.
Yes, I'm looking for a new winter coat.
Fair enough. Give it to me straight. Did she bully you into this?
Absolutely. That's why when he entered the final, I was so excited.
Yes. I'll pick you up first, and then we'll go get Megan.
We ’ Ve been looking around for many hours.What on earth are you looking for?
Yes, everything is 25 % off.
What is the great trait in your personality?
Of course sir, would you like milk and sugar with that?
I want to get cigarettes.
It’s very hot and that ’ s why I ’ d like to smoke inside.
Which ones? Let me have a look.Wow, look at that! That brings back memories... That?
How about 7 o'clock?
If that's the case, we can talk about it first. What's your concept of a big amount?
well, we can ask people to make small contributions.
Good to meet you too.
Yeah, it is my favorite. Many Chinese people including women and children would like to concern the game. I think they want to see the performance of coming and YiJianLian, the Chinese players in NBA.
I'm sorry, I'm engaged at 2 p. m.
I want to open a savings account.
He's always confused by easy questions.
How about the one on Baker Street?
Really? Who made that rule up?
"Yes. I went back to the dorm only to find my roommates laughing and shouting "" April Fool, April Fool ""."
I guess you'll have to wing it.
I know. But is she out of danger now?
All I usually have is some cereal for breakfast.
Why are you so angry, darling?
Yes, now many girls want to be independent, so it is a little popular, especially among white collars.
He will enjoy himself this weekend.
How much do you make a month?
I ’ m terribly sorry. May I have your order again? I'll get it right away.
I was looking at this Kenmore refrigerator.
Seriously, I am so excited.
No. I listened to records and studied, what did you do yesterday, Donald?
I had an idea.
Hey, come on. It’s too early to say that. We can fix things.
I don't like shopping in malls. I like shopping on the street. There is more variety.
How long will it take for our order to be delivered?
It’s much larger than I expected. When was the plant set up?
Usually people leave 15 %, but this was exceptional service. I am thinking that maybe 20 % would be appropriate.
Well, I'm not really an expert in this area, but my understanding is that anything is possible. It's just that it is so hard to determine what went on 4.5 billion years ago.
I'm sorry, but June 30 is quite soon. I can't guarantee 1 500 cases, I'd prefer the first shipment to be 1,000 cases and the next 2,000 cases.
And look out she's dressed.
Well, you're lucky that you're still able to make your payments. I missed a credit payment last month. Now my bank account's overdrawn, and the company is threatening to take back my purchases.
Yes. One bedroom is for my wife and I. there ’ s another for our daughter. My wife wants to use the third one as a guest room, but I ’ d like to make it into a study. Our daughter is also keen on making it a study, so that ’ s probably what will happen.
We usually offer on a net basis only. Many of our clients have been doing very well on this quoted price.
You should at least give me a call.
I'm easy to approach and friendly to everyone.
Come on! Three's a crowd!
OK. Have you filled in the Declaration Form?
That sounds fair. That's still cheaper than paying a band to come play for us.
Do you have a sleeping problem?
Everything I need is on the list.
That'll be fine. Here you are.
Hush! The wall has ears, you know.
Mr. Morris was so pleased with your sales work on his account that he went straight to the top with it. He wrote a letter about it to Mr. Macmillan!
He's in a meeting with Phil.
Good coming. I would like to open a new account. I want to deposit 500 dollars.
I prefer glossy. How much?
I think you're right. Thank you.
But no dressing up like ghosts, right?
Thanks. So how are things with you?
Let me see... Perhaps I could fit you in at five thirty.
That ’ s great, because it uses natural materials rather than ones that scientists make themselves. I prefer natural remedies to man-made ones.
That's true. I could certainly use the exercise!
You're welcome. Now smile...
We need an operator now.
' Round ' and ' frame ' are two different terms.
That is a part of chinese culture, if they think you are a lovely child, they touch your head and say, how cute you are.
I see. What about the dress over there? I would like to try it on.
But I need a computer that can handle writing in Chinese.
Yes, It’s a one-year lease. And $ 200 a week with one month refundable deposit.
How do you do? Mr. Barker.
We went to the coast. It's really a nice place for camping, really good time around the fire singing and dancing.
I guess I don't earn enough.
How old is your friend and why doesn't he know how to read?
Looks like you ’ re not going to get more than a bedroom in a shared flat with that.
I like Business Management, and i think it's very useful for the present work.
I think that's the idea I was looking for. Thanks, man.
How about the hiking? It was freezing yesterday, are you all ok?
Thanks so much. Right, I've put my card in. What now?
No, It isn't. It's 736-4565. It seems you've misdialed.
Yes, that's a good idea.
An ordinary return, please.
I don't need to remind you that the market has become very competitive.
So your room number is 201. Are you a member of our hotel?
It's not so bad.
Is there any way you can cut us a better deal on your wholesale price for this order?
Yes, I want to send a registered airmail letter to France.
Yeah. He was a real slave driver. He probably would have loved it if we were robots.
Would you please tell me the exact problem, sir?
Do you mean financially rewarding?
No, sir. So far it is the least expensive suite for tomorrow night.
I am tired of doing that boring work. I just repeat doing counting everyday. It's so terrible.
it's always rather congested down there during rush hour. Maybe you should try to find a different route to get home.
Thank you. And where can I get a pushcart?
Oh, you are such a dog!
Yes, I am sure that you got the flu. You need a shot.
I see you have bought some coffee. Would you mind telling me how much you paid for it?
Don't tell me it affects our flight.
I'm more confused now than before. How is there a problem?
I don't want to go all the way home just to eat.
I doubt it. It's not rush hour.
Yes, in Paris, France.
What's the problem, sir?
Is it all right for me to come in now, Mr Sun?
Oh, she ’ s just fine. She ’ s so grown up now.
Really? How do you get the chance?
Yes, we regret we cannot maintain our original price. Since the prices of the raw materials have been raised, we have to adjust the price of our products accordingly.
My name is Zu Ping. In fact, I have a reservation on Flight No. 125 for Zhenjiang, leaving Beijing at 2:00 p. m. tomorrow. Now I'd like to make a change of my travel schedule. Is it possible to change my booking to the day after tomorrow?
Oh, everything comes back to life in spring and the weather gets warmer.
It was terrific. I really enjoyed it.
Sure... first you're going to have to buy a ticket to ride on the subway. The Wudaokou station is on the lightrail, so you'll have to transfer. Be sure you buy a combination ticket for the regular subway and the lightrail. It should cost you 5 yuan.
So what do you feel like doing this evening? How about going to the cinema?
No, he's still sleeping.
I was so scared when I saw the gun.
It isn't Elvin.
Yes. It was sunny and warm yesterday but the wind is really blowing hard now.
Sandrawu Chunk International.
Star Hotel. OK.
I used to swim a lot, but now I'm taking gym classes.
It begins at 6:40 every morning, and it goes for 20 minutes.
have you checked your voicemail recently?
That's because it's time.
If you take the fast train, it will take about 50 minutes.
You'll get used to it gradually.
What am I supposed to do then?
Do you think that we should invite alumni and former professors?
Bring me the menu, please.
Excuse me, I ’ d like to buy a guitar.Could you recommend one?
$ 14,500. It only has 10,000 miles on it, so It’s like a new car.
No appetite, always unaged and I can ’ t sleep well.
Which days are these classes on?
I am willing to tell you that information.
I have some good news for you. We've decided we'd like to send you to Shanghai on a business trip this weekend.
I very much like to go to a cafe and doze in the afternoon sunshine.
Enough. I don't want to hear any more about your bathroom time.
We know you have done a good job in building up these exports for us. However, our company has the regulation for the agency.
Where do you work, Andrea?
My husband is betting on France.
You seem to have something on mind. Promise me, go to see the doctor right now.
I have it right here.
Oh, that's so nice of you! Thank you very much.
Yes, please tell her I stopped by.
Quite good. It was the most wonderful dinner I have ever had.
It will cost you $ 10.
Your doctor will call you in a few days with the results.
Yes, it is. How do you know that?
Really? What a shame! I thought she was going to win this one.
Ok. I hope you can have these goods delivered before the end of Sep. We'd like them to be there in time for our Christmas sales.
I sure did.
Right, I'll make up my mind. Please correct me if any of my movements go wrong.
The charges vary according to the types of call you make. The cheapest is a station-to-stcrtion call, then a person-to-person call. The mini charge will apply for the first three minutes, then each additional minute will be charged.
Keep your eyes on the road! No music! We are coming up to a red light, step on the brakes. What are you doing? I said the brakes! Look out for those people! Get off the sidewalk!
You mean the man wearing jeans? He ’ s her little brother.
I've had that problem too many times. So I learned to save.When I'm writing something, I save every three sentences or so. I don't want to lose anything.
This is Milton in room 402. I would like to check out. Can anyone help me with my baggage?
I want to grow in my job and move ahead.
The next show is at two o'clock.
What you're paying for, madam, is the ingredients. it provides a soft and perfect finish coverage with a weightless feel.
What are you excited about?
I wouldn't say that's totally true. I've met many happy intercultural couples.
In that case, I don't think I'll buy one here.
So, I can call someone to fix it?
I think you should look over these figures again. There are some calculations that are a bit off.
Yes, but I have never taken his class before.
Hurry up, get in.
Now, Mr.William, a little personal information first, are you married?
What do you want me to do about it?
We need to figure out how much money we are spending and what we are spending it on?
I am having a hard time at my job.
She has nothing that deserves my jealousy. I don't have to put things on my face and I still look pretty. Don't you think so?
Very well, thank you. And you?
I know. It ’ ll also help you make more money.
Yes, that's possible.
They're incredibly selfish. They ' re always up until the wee hours of the night playing their music so loudly that I have to wear earplugs in order to fall asleep!
Uh-huh. What else do you want?
I recommend crisp beef and fried duck.
Yes, I know I'm wrong. But I swear that the affair lasts only for two months. And I still love my wife. I couldn't live without her.
Oh, so you're a teacher.
More than 2000 now.
If we start early, do we have some time for Yuanmingyuan?
Yes, if it's not too much of a trouble.
I've only seen one in my life. I was looking out the window. It was around two miles away. It was very interesting to watch.But it was heading toward my friend's house. So I quickly called them on the phone.
Tea Ceremony! Tell me about Tea Ceremony.
That ’ s right. The ideal posture for women is to put their legs together and lean to one side. This is especially important in summer.
The furniture isn't built cheap.
Why, what's the problem?
Are you ready to order? May I suggest a veal?
You have to make an appointment before we can come out and install it.
No, this isn't.
Right now I ’ m working on a product launch project to open up our Asian market. We have several upcoming events to take place for the Japanese cities. We ’ ll be heading to Tokyo next month to get things started. What I would like to talk to you about is joining our team to help bring this project to completion.
I think that we should have just the sub-committee.
Thank you. I am Fred, coming from Future Clothes Company. I've brought some catalogues of our new series of the summer clothes. I wonder if your manager would like to have a look at them.
Sometimes all a place needs is a little bit of cleaning and some fresh paint.
Oh, you must know the ones I mean. They were on sale, a real bargain. Reduced to a quarter of the original price. I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw them.
I ’ m just not looking forward to cleaning it!
Yes, that ’ s the exact thing we need. One for each.
I ’ d love to, but you know I ’ Ve got another appointment. I ’ m really sorry.
Thanks. I'm going to follow your advice and pop down to the supermarket right now.
Whatever, I ’ m going to go watch the opening match.
Good morning, Janice. Our office will hold a welcoming party in the evening, so I will allocate you some assignment.
can I see these silk ties?
Let me have a look. Oh, the watch ’ s battery is worn down.
You should never open a door without looking to see who it is.
OK, sir. Five persons at 7:00.
It's LF 312 G.
A single room costs you $ 85 / day.
You lost me.
No, never. I don ’ t think I ’ Ve ever met a girl taller than me! Have you gained weight recently?
No problem. I need some markers, some color pencils, a pair of scissors, some highlighter, rulers..
Okay, I guess that's it. Let's go pay for this stuff.
You need to make posters?
You would fit both of them in your bedroom. Perhaps you could also get the dressing table. I think that one would look good in your bedroom.
This is a very good meeting, Liz.
How about next Friday?
Did you have a good trip?
Who wants to go first? Allen?
I guess you could say that. Eating fruit and vegetables helps keep you healthy. I've lost 5 pounds and I feel great!
When she told me that she would marry no man but Dick, my heart was almost in my mouth.
Oh, I have been with my uncle for a week.
Run around the track. In the morning I run for an hour, and in the afternoon I run around the building.
I traveled the Three Gorges.
Hold on please, I will check for you. Flight GB152 takes off every day at 13
I ’ m sure that science will explain everything eventually. I think that the strangest thing about religion is that so many religions people act in ways that their religion claims are wrong.
That's too bad. What's the earliest flight available?
Well, the climate's different for a start. It doesn't rain so much as it does in England. The sun shines more often.
But you must cook that dinner next time.
Sorry, could you tell me your name?
Good morning everyone. Thank you for attending the meeting today. I'm sure you all have a copy of the agenda. So let's get started with the first issue.
I'm Mike Kowalski and my card number is 5211678 44, but there are some other numbers at the beginning. I'm not sure what they are.
It also helps that I have strong team members, such as yourself. You really know your stuff!
Inspection is to be done by the China Commodity Inspection and Testing Bureau. Usually inspection is conducted within five days before each shipment.
Sometimes I don ’ t know what the best foods are.
You ’ re a liar!
oh, i see. So factory tours are good for companies as well as visitors.
Gosh, you took all the word right out of my mouth. Let's go out and get crazy tonight.
You'll be staying at Holiday Inn. It's a three-star hotel with two restaurants and a swimming pool.
How will you solve the problem?
Here's a check for ten dollars.
Adam. I ’ m sorry.
I'll try Chinese wine.
You've got it. Tell me a little bit about what you might be wanted.
Do you like him?
Don ’ t worry. They are grown-ups.
Thank you. We'd like to have some dessert.
Some do, some don't. Many people in the North are fond of liquors. I think it has something to do with the climate.
That ’ s a possibility. Thanks!
Is there anything else I can help you with?
It might be too hot for me.
My throat is really dry.
So you speak German, don't you?
If we let Vince and Elvin continue to run things, invoking is going to fail.
Why don't you just get it fixed?
We must find some time to read report.
if you want, I can introduce you to some typical Chinese dishes.
Actually, I think the paper-cuts is OK, because it is easy to carry and foreign friends are also interested in it. They think that is a miracle.
I am dying from the heat.
Yes, of course. What would you like to know?
There ’ s a good movie called Summer in Beijing.
The information is scanty for me. And can you describe the responsibilities of the position?
I haven ’ t been under any more stress than usual.
Well, hi! My name is Eve Markowski. I am glad to meet you. With your friendly smile and helpful attitude. I am sure you will win.
Is it? Mine is climbing mountains on Sunday mornings.
Take some with you next time, just in case.
Please send the next candidate in on your way out.
Can you give me a special offer?
I'm afraid she's in a meeting at the moment. Who's speaking?
Really? Are you going to introduce us?
Sorry. This is a one-man job. I've got the grill just how I like it, and I've made up my own special sauce.
Good idea. Is there a good movie on?
Good afternoon, ladies. May I help you?
Thank you for pursuing this. I appreciate your help.
Are you a blogger?
Are you ready, honey?
So do you think you can get to the office alone?
It depends. If they are not busy, they will come to join us, and talk with us.
Is this case yours?
No, I don't know where that is.
That's why I think it may suit my needs.
What do we get this morning?
You'll find our prices very favorable.
( 15 minutes later ) Mr. Wang, we are deeply sorry for the inconvenience. The maintenance might last for a long time, may I offer you another room?
Yeah, is your club different?
The 486 really goes downtown?
What time will breakfast be served?
You have the right to remain silent.
More or less. There's just one thing bothering me.
Yes, very much.
Jennifer, would you like to have dinner with me?
Some even do make-up slightly. Are you aware that previous ' small potato ' Ma Xiaoxiao becomes a piece of cheese cake recently?
It's ok, that's life.
Well, they have different rooms. I lift weights by the pool where there aren ’ t so many people.
It’s not a bad idea. I think education is the biggest problem at the moment. Schools don ’ t seem to have enough money to educate kids properly.
Hi, Steven. Do you have time and chat with me?
You know what, Trish?
We're okay for vegetables but we should stock up on meat. Can you go to the butcher's and get some veal and some beef?
That would be great! How about 2:30?
We've got several kinds. All are made of different materials.
You can use quarters, dimes and nickels.
Well, I really wanted to see the football game.
I can get a few of them right away, but might have to order some.
Thank you very much. I am sure good rest will do indeed. I don ’ t have this too often.
I almost did! Actually, I don't know that much about coffee, even though I sell it.
Yes, ma'am. Whatever you say.
Poor boy. They work hard at school nowadays, don't they? Does he like it?
Excuse me, professor. I need to go home now.
What's your flight time?
It’s so sad. They had been together for only two months. Do you know what the matter was?
I've had enough.
No, that ’ s all.
Yes, I'm now working in a company.
Yeah, time for more coffee!
This one is. I have another one that's furnished, but I'm not sure you'll like the furniture.
I think that the public transport system could be made simpler. I never know where the bus routes actually go. The routes seem to twist and turn rather than going roughly in a straight line.
Why don't you join us to go out for a walk?
That was quick work. Let me have a look at it. Yeah, everything looks fine now. Thank you very much.
Many people won ’ t like that.
He is everybody's type.
I requested it. What do you say? Do you have your dancing shoes on?
Really? Me, too. I work for an accountancy company, T & D. Maybe you've heard of them.
Can you speed it up and let me have it today? I'm leaving tomorrow. I've been here for almost a month now, you see. My corporation is urging me to return. I've booked the ticket for tomorrow afternoon's flight at 3.
My what? Oh, that, right as a trivet.
OK, an Englishman, a Scotsman, and an Irishman were going on a trip across the desert, and they could only take one thing with them.
Fine. What kind of relationship do you think should exist between a boss and his or her employees?
I've something very unpleasant to talk with you. Upon the arrival of the first consignment, it was found that about 50 % of the sixty cases of pineapples were leaking.
Well, live and learn. It seems we'll have to waive the claim.
Well, I'll cancel your appointments for today. And I'll tell Mr. Morley.
That's OK with me.
I don't usually like to use Atms, I like dealing with a real person, you see.
Would you care for some soup?
You know only one aspect of him. Do you know what he would do in the kitchen?
I don't feel like drinking tonight. I'm gonna hang out at YY's.
Let me see, I would like to work my way up to a senior management position with a company such as yours.
I think we'll send you a letter next week, if you are wanted, or we may give you a call. By the way, have you got a telephone?
You received a letter in the mail.
Everything she needs is right here in the box.
I ’ m getting this beret? Doesn ’ t it look cool? I ’ d like to get some jeans too, but I don ’ t have enough cash on me.
All right, I'll take it.
Why do you want to join it?
Mr. Phillips? I have a request here from purchasing that needs your approval.
I need some books on hardware.
Two yuan, please.
it sounds like any job will be better than the one you have now!
I tell you what just between you and me, we just mess things up so that it looks like we work hard.Just kidding. Oh, your cubicle is over the. And this way. Those are all private offices--the managers ' offices.
Yeah. I get sick of her. She always bends my ear about what she thinks.
Do you know who you ’ re going to vote for?
I need to go to the ATM.
You don ’ t have any problems with how it looks?
Would you like a smoking or non-smoking room?
Not at all. You'll be OK soon.
Have you learned any other foreign languages?
This is he.
But maybe there is a chance of gradually improving the surface and atmosphere of Mars so it may be inhabitable by humans.
Great! But is it free?
Don't worry. You have plenty of time to decide.
That's no problem. There are 3 ways you can do this, firstly you can send the money account to account, or you can choose to send cash to account or you can send cash to individual. Which service would you like?
Yeah! He ’ s very good at showing off his knowledge.
this path leads to the cave. Can we look inside the cave?
It's 7.2 %, fixed-rate loan.
What's he doing?
I'll appreciate it if it could be arranged.
I'll meet you in front of Nordstrom's in 30 minutes.
Frankly, some part of it I enjoy very much, but I prefer something more professional. It happens that I have a friend working here in this company. She told me the export department was to recruit an assistant. I felt very excited at this news. That's why I'm here.
Log on to the website of American Embassy in Beijing and fill in the application forms.
You can see the time on the meter. I have radio time, you know.
I have a horrible rash from poison oak.
Certainly. How about spaghetti with clams and shrimps.
Yes, I like ping-pong very much, but I can't play well.
The channel boats are quite fast, aren't they?
Excuse me, is there a table for 8 right now?
Yes. One moment, please.
Of course, I should have been more careful. I ’ m sorry.
I never dreamed of doing this either. The only thing I like about it is the money.
yeah, I know, but I find these sorts of things hard to say. They won't like it if I tell them to turn off the TV. Now I just hope the show will end soon.
Please fill out this application.
If you want to ask for leave, you should get the approval from the manager in charge of your department.
That sounds terrific.
Yes, I ’ d like to book a single room with a bath from the afternoon of October 4th to the morning of October 10th.
certainly. First, a Beijing duck is specially selected. After it is cleaned and dressed, it will be roasted in an open oven. Only wood of fruit trees are used to fuel the fire to give the duck a unique
Yes, someone give me a pamphlet introducing the restaurant and its business hours when I passed by this morning. So, let ’ s have a try. My treat.
Do I have to pay for electricity myself?
And don't ever forget it.
Really? I hope to meet him soon.
Well, I ’ Ve got a huge load of typing and Mr. Blake has insisted I get it done by tomorrow afternoon.
Hang in there. It ’ ll all come together one of these days.
Then you've got a lot of homework to do. You need to get her notice first.
some private schools require their students to wear uniforms, but public schools don't.
Yes, is that you, Allen?
Make sure and come back in a couple of weeks.
You ’ re not going to get it.
You wouldn't believe what I got in the mail today!
Oh, there is no comparison. Now we are talking but ugly.
Yes, sing a song. But don ’ t sing a sad song.
Mary, besides the resume, I think we should also write an application letter.
That would be WebTracker. We're heard they're almost ready. That's why we have to finish first.
Certainly. Here it is.
That's not a problem.
No, thank you. I don't have time. How much is that?
You are obligated to maintain your building and my apartment.
I think you're a better cook than I am.
May I have your details, and I'll check for you.
I'm so jealous of you. I've never been anywhere in Europe. I've always dreamed of traveling around and seeing the sights.
Well, it's more like she kept me busy...
Not really.But I like it in spring and fall. I don't like it in winter.
Okay, then a third one for my husband too.
Then what about you, Miss?
That sounds like fun. What's the weather going to be like?
The usual minimum purchase is 5,000 RIB.
How many dogs live in this house?
It's like information overload, not to mention the reliability of these papers and magazines.
Yes, go down the fifth street. You won't miss it.
Good afternoon, sir. Can I help you?
I would buy that kind of book!
It's OK. She normally just wears a little foundation and some loose powder, and I don't know what shade to buy.
When would you like me to start teaching you?
I want a salad with some chicken.
I don't care!
Cool, but what if the weather is not ideal?
can you train a rabbit to do things?
Well, we are sorry to hear that.May I have your name and room number? We will deal with the matter right now.
How about Friday? Only in that day can I arrange it.
He asked me out to a dinner tonight. How about joining us?
Have you talk to him about it?
Thanks. Please sit down. She ’ ll be with you shortly.
He is the guy I was telling you about.
Yes, what time would you like a wake-up call?
Even in Taiwan, I always liked to take the train. It is more comfortable.
I have important business to take care of that morning.
Hi. I would like to make a reservation on this Friday.
Actually, I'd forgotten about it.
You have probably noticed that our products ' prices are competitive. Besides. we can provide more superior products than other companies at the same price.
Good morning, please make yourself comfortable.
What did people call him?
All right, I ’ ll put you in my book.
I guess you get what you pay for.
They may unless we get a half-price ticket for you.
My work involves various routine bookkeeping and basic accounting tasks including journal entries, verifying data and reconciling discrepancies, preparing detailed reports from raw data, and checking accounting documents for completeness, mathematical accuracy and consistency.
Are you satisfied with the dishes?
Yeah. We ’ re never going to get to the end of this one.
I see. What would you like for dessert?
Do you ever speak to native speakers of English?
Of course, this way please.
Jenny, you look terrible. What's eating you?
Sorry, Mr. Wood is not here right now. Do you have any message for him?
should I bring anything?
Are there any special events going on tomorrow?
Did it get any better?
That ’ s a good idea. It must be easy to find a job in shanghai.
Great. My favorite-soup, soup, soup...
Yes, madam. What sort of gloves do you want?
What's the best way downtown?
Yeah, I deleted all that superstitious crap. What a waste of bandwidth!
What ’ s it like?
Well, how does it look?
What? Seven hundred?
What's the charge?
The least expensive, but still fully functional. And we think that your factory needs to take measures to improve quality-control.
Yes, but there is a chance that might be suitable for you.
since everyone is different, your personal trainer will help you find out all the exercise equipments that are suitable for you fitness level. Then you'llbe taught all the necessary techniques to us
Well, they're for your wife, so I think you should give her roses.
well, this is my stop. it was nice talking with you.
Give me six-piece chicken nuggets, a large fries, and a large coke.
Those are good answers. How did she react?
They are, keep the documents in chronological order, remove all the chips and pins, punch the documents evenly and place them in the folder.
Oh, I see them.Some are doing Taijiquan, some are performing swordplay, some are practising the Chinese Wushu.
An old one.
Mr. Allen, I have just received your note which informs me that you have offered the accountant position to another candidate. May I ask why I was defeated?
it seems that we generally like different kinds of people. How is it that we are such good friends?
I see. please take off your shirt and lie down on the couch.
Anything you like, but not too many large notes. It's useful to have smaller notes.
Good morning, Jerry. How's everything?
From November 21st for 4 nights.
That ’ s sounds great.
It's on the second floor in Suite 201.
Okay, this sounds a little tough, how am I supposed to practice for this?
Stephen, can you work overtime tonight?
That's interesting to travel by boat to see the whole city that is between the sea and sky. But personally I like Greek better.
I ’ m so happy that he did.
So, you also like Coffee?
Does your brother have just one son?
How about Mac Donald's?
Well, the client is always right.
Don't worry, we can go tomorrow morning. It opens at 8: 00.
I'm absolutely useless at cooking!
It’s not really an occasion, It’s more like I ’ m sorry.
I'd love to, but I'm broke. Maybe after payday.
Will they need anything else from me?
Yes. It was very cold and windy. We wore heavy wool sweaters and walked quickly to keep warm.
If we were in the same conference room, I would not work late these days. That conference room has been booked out. This time our boss wants to hold the meeting in our company. So everything has to be rearranged and checked, like tables, chairs, mean tacks, podium, audio and visual equipments and even the lunch menu.
Thank you, sir. You'll be staying in room 1910. Here are your keys. The bellhop will take your luggage upstairs. Have a nice stay, sir.
Yes, but I need to borrow some more money.
What day is it today?
What is the rent each month?
He's here on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays. What day did you want to see him?
here you go.On any other day, it would cost me a fortune, but It’s on special offer today.
Oh, that's all right. I just wondered what was keeping you.
I'm just taking a break between washing the windows and cleaning the toilet.
That's true. I got the news yesterday.
What courses are you taking?
Let's see, can I get some fried zucchini, please?
Thank you. In fact, I am in a hurry. My wife is waiting for me at the parking lot.
Your father looks much younger in the picture.
No, I shouldn't think so.By the way, is there a socket for my razor?
Okay, sir, but remember how close it is to your checkout time.
Oh, that ’ s the really bad news. Our supplier suffered QC problems and, well, half of our production is faulty. We ’ re going to have to recall all itemssold in the last quarter. And the worst part? We ’ re going to have to shoulder this cost.
I'd like to, but I'm afraid I can't afford the life here.
no thank you. She has big enough eyes as it is.
Hi, excuse me sir? I ’ m looking for a dress shoe. My usual pair that I ’ Ve had for years have finally been stretched out of shape. They don ’ t provide any support anymore.
Just watching some TV.
Pleasure is mine.Here ' s my card.
I would much rather see her once or twice and not do anything about it — — what could I about it anyway?
don ’ t be moody! I hope you ’ re not tired, because we ’ Ve been invited to a party this evening. I know how excited you get about parties.
I bought all the ingredients this morning, so let's start!
How about painting a warning on each cigarette packet?
true, take my former supervisor as an example. He was extremely controlling and overbearing. He always had to micromanage everything.
They say we're going to get some rain later.
Let's string the lights first.Then we won't have to mess up the decorations.
They are made a town nearby. The flower vases are made of porcelain and covered with tiny bamboo sticks.
Yes, Jerry, can you share your understanding of EQ?
How much is this pen?
This is Mary speaking.
Is my membership the same as paying club members? I mean, can I get discounts at club hotels?
Don't lose this receipt, because insurance companies are very difficult about helping when they don't have the right paperwork.
I hear you are planning to travel abroad.
What's it like?
Yeah. If you are available now, let me describe your work duties, OK?
I am Smith, the personnel director. Please have a seat, son.
Does it include facial mask and massage?
Trust me. Everything will go well.
I hope that you've got some money.
Thanks very much for your help.
If I want to exercise, I will need to join a gym.
No, thank you. That's all I need at the moment.
No problem, we can accept any denomination. How much would you like to exchange today?
This is encouraging news, good for you! What is your solution, then?
Are you a good driver?
Hello, is that Mr. Li?
We have to make sure that the person issued the ticket is the one paying it.
I can speak and read Cantonese because I worked in Guangdong for many years.
well, I still can ’ t adjust to the fast pace of city life.
I think I can work well under pressure.
I heard the Great Wall closes early in the afternoon. Do you think I can make it before closing?
Oh, without doubt.When is the next class?
I'm afraid so. We found this crack on the bottom when I went back to my hotel.
Probably.The new owners will be coming to start alignment meetings nextweek.One of the big question is what to call the new conglomerate company.
Go ahead. I'm all ears.
I'm not surprised. She's a plain Jane.
You're welcome!
No, that's it.
So, let ’ s see. You have put new tiles on the floor and replaced a few tiles on the walls. You ’ Ve also added a small cupboard for toiletries. The bath, shower, and washbasin are the same as before, aren ’ t they?
Really? I've never heard that before. I just like it.
are you looking for some homemade chocolate as a gift.
Yeah, those classics from the great writers.
Have you paid all your tickets off?
You mean because you are a woman?
You're a good dancer.
Then, I'll have this pork cute instead.
Employee welfare? What all does that include?
So, I passed?
The park will close soon. We Should better go in right now.
Do you want any sugar?
Oh, God, I've forgotten it.
He'll come out with surprises. Just wait and see. Look at that woman, with the white chiffon!
It gets better on Sunday, though. The storm systems move east and the skies will clear up at night. It will still be rather cool, with highs in the low 50s. The West Coast will be experiencing some unusually chilly weather, but at least the sun will come out. I advise weekend travelers to be careful, especially while driving. Back to you, Mark.
No. This is my first time. How does it taste?
No, I am from France.
Oh, my gosh, they're back? Another room at once, sir, plus a full refund, of course.
Goofed off? Maybe, but I'm not a clock-watcher. I finished doing what I should do and then knock off an hour earlier.
It all sounds very complicated.
Sixty bucks? No-can-do, son. You'll be lucky if I go down to eighty-five.
Do you feel anything else?
Chinese dishes are exquisitely prepared, delicious, and very palatable. They are very good in colour, flavour, and taste.
So I've noticed. You're putting on a little weight, aren't you?
No. The Hills? Who filed for divorce first?
I'm sorry to bring up my resignation at this moment, but I've decided to study abroad.
Three days later.
That ’ s a good idea. Do you know anyone who has done that before?
Speaking. May I help you?
Not yet. And I ’ m really hungry now.
He'll be back at about five in the afternoon. Could I take a message?
Bite your tongue! I ’ m already at the end of my rope. Some nights I don ’ t sleep at all. John manages to sleep like a log even when the babies are screaming at the top of their lungs.
Which resources do you have to import?
Well, I know how to turn it off!
Thank you for your consideration. When will you let me know your answer?
Bargaining is a game, or even a battle. You feel like a winner when you get a good price.
That's true. Her husband is a fat cat.
Where will you be staying?
No, the damage is minor.
Really? Well, what time does it start?
Why are you going to take english with chemistry and physics?
Twice a week. How about you?
Kindergarten students usually only go to school for about four hours every day, but after that, they spend about eight hours in school every day.
That sounds very good. Which website should I visit to download it?
To tell you the truth, I'm not married. I'm still single.
Yes, we do. We like it very much.
If you go on a business trip, you will enjoy the allowance. It is 200 yuan per day.
I'd like to buy a keepsake for my girlfriend. Could you make a recommendation for me?
Do you want to send it by ordinary or registered mail?
I'll see you in Sterlet, then.
Yes, I'm a very good mother and successful career woman.
Hi, I am looking for a woman named Mia.
We are going to need confirmation on these orders today, and delivery must be made before next Tuesday. Do you think you can handle that?
Why not start with the most interesting one?
I was in such a panic at that time. Fortunately another boat came along and I was saved from drowning.
Now I'm sure we'll never get all our things back. They're so clever these criminals. What's the point of collecting beautiful things for other people to steal?
what can I do for you, sir?
Airmail or surface mail?
It was no big deal.
The rooms are very tidy and the flowers grew very well.You are very helpful. I want to thank you for everything you've done for me.
Where'd you get the ticket at?
how much does the magadize cost?
What's the advantage? Price, I suppose.
Just how am I supposed to do that?
Thanks. Let me see. I think there's a mistake on the bill here. Would you mind checking, please?
Tom. Please do not disturb me for the next hour.
I thought so. Who ’ s that beside her?
Oh. It’s pity you have to leave.
We ’ re getting donations for the campaigns.
I ’ m not going to tell you.
Bruh, that musicians was on point.
Sir, sometimes a fast elevator ride makes our guests see spots.
We can take a see by there now if you like. The landlord left me a set of keys with me.
You need an appointment so you can sign the papers.
Who are you favourite authors?
Are you suggesting that anyone can be?
actually, I watch whichever movie there is, be it a comedy, a sci-fi or a suspense movie. How about you?
Welcome to Lincoln Bank. Are you a new customer?
You're quite welcome.
How about I come and see you off?
Hold on there, Fittipaldi, first let ’ s go over things one more time. Now before you even think of starting the car, make sure your seat is at a comfortable position and you can grip the steering wheel firmly. Next check your rear view mirrors to make sure you can see properly.
Tony, could you tell me if there are any special rules about the job?
Just go to read. I will find it, honey.
Just joking, T. I've got some wonderful clothes. Let's go and have a close look at your outfit.
It's okay. It's probably my husband's fault.Is there a pool in this hotel?
Do you have your library card with you?
Not long actually. So I'm sure I will learn a lot from our cooperation.
No, sir, you have to deal with your own meal since we charge you only $ 80 for the trip.
Yes. I'd like to visit France. I'd like to travel all over the world. As you describe it, France seems to be very much like Japan. I would like to see it for myself.
That depends on the weight.
Our pleasure. We have several package tours you may choose, from ten days to three weeks in Europe.
Something made in the ' 20s would be nice.
thanks. Could you take one more from this angle?
Thanks. I was hoping that you would all enjoy this meal.
She is at the supermarket downstairs. She said she would be back in about half an hour.
This one sounds good.Efficiency with view of the lake.Utilities and parking included. Newly remodeled kitchen. $ 470.
Because your bank is a new one, I think I'll be given more opportunities, and the working conditions and surroundings are so excellent here.
How was the movie last night?
have you moved into your new house yet, Michael?
It’s a great pleasure to meet you, Mr. Brown. I believe you have seen our exhibits in the showroom. May I know what particular items you ’ re interested in?
No. But now he will be in bigger trouble! What's a boyfriend for? Forget about Valentine's Day?
If we work on this tomorrow night, you could easily be ready by Friday.
Yes, I do. I ’ d prefer you didn ’ t. The AC ( air-conditioning ) is also on.
How was your interview?
George, did you remember to buy me the book?
I'm getting by OK. I heard MicroPower was going to make Zina president of their new invoking Internet division.
The westerners use knives and forks to eat so it is complicated. The Chinese use a pair of chopsticks and eat out of the same plate. I assume it is less complicated, right?
That would be perfect. That way, someone will be there, but you will have them right away.
Well, two weeks ago I got a tip about a possible job opening at Ace Travel Agency over on Franklin Avenue.
So am I.
You are really a wet blanket.
About fifteen minutes.It ' s not far.Are you a stranger in New York?
We'll play the CD loud, is that all right?
Yes madam. I will give you the small one.
No... that's not what I meant. I didn't mean that. She asked me where you were and I jokingly said that you were on a date with Sara. I thought Martha knew that you and Sara were just friends.
Wow, that terrible movie is finally over. Next time I ’ m picking the film, because I don ’ t want to end up seeing a chick flick.
So if you want to meet at 10
Have you ever been to Japan? I'm going in the fall.
How about dinner tonight? My treat.
I understand, sir. I ’ ll bring a doctor ’ s note in tomorrow. I am sorry, Mr. Douglas.
Of course not. Let me check. Oh, you seem to be correct.
Talking on the cell phone while driving is very dangerous too. It increases the chance of accidents.
Usually, we give a commission of 4 % to our agents.
It's a small.
One of your brake lights is out.
Let me get last week's notes.
so are you enjoying your new job?
Well, you have fun.
Depending on what you consider a lot.
Why do you like it best?
Is Tom available please?
We used to have a woman here who dressed like that and she was good, very good. But, the clients reacted very negatively when they saw her. Some asked that their account be given to someone who dressed more conservatively.
Are you a wrestler or a boxer?
That would be great. Thanks!
That's good. I will take it.
Well, as you probably know I buy from a selected group of suppliers and don't, as a rule, deal with new people.
Johnny, I want to thank you.
How about this one? This is 500 yuan and the same kind of material as that one.
How long do you have?
Oh, yes. You?
Can you leave a message for her to call her office?
They need to eat healthy foods, but they also have to increase the amount of exercise they do every day. They don't have to cut out fattening foods altogether, though.
I bought this toy gun from your store two weeks ago. My son played with it only twice and it broke.
This is the receipt, please keep it. Have a good day.
Hi! This is John Li, is my car fixed yet?
Have you seen Harry?
Sorry ma'm, the only opening we have after lunch is one fifteen, but I might be able to work you in after 4. would that be a better time?
Charlotte, have you had your supper?
Of course. As for an entry-level accountant, we pay ¥ 1,500 a month in the first half year. We have a grading system to evaluate your work. If you have made progress, we will certainly raise your salary. For beginners with a CPA certificate, they can earn at least ¥ 2, 000 a month.
Wait! Congratulations! You are the lucky customer of our anniversary celebration.
yes, she said they couldn't communicate well with each other and they often argued over trivial things.
Do you keep a stock of these things?
That's not true. Look over there! That lady chose the same one and she is surely older than you.
Would you open this suitcase, please?
You can do it. But do work hard on your English to make it easier.
Say, how would you like to be a dress designer?
Sure. Where would you like to stand?
I may go grocery shopping later.
Let me have it, please. I'm taking some laundry downstairs anyway.
I see. What are the options? I suppose airmail is faster and more expensive than surface mail.
What is your address?
I was stuck between 15th and 16th floors in the elevator.
I can't deny that. She is so beautiful that I fell in love with her at the first sight. I wish I knew more about her.
Channel Two. A TV series was showing on it. The name of the series is Huanzhu Gene
Yes, that ’ s right. To be honest, the first year was quite tough for me. I was really just treated more like an intern. I didn ’ t have many responsibilities and I found it quite frustrating.
That is the most boring, typical gift in the world!
He never see eye to eye with me.
All right. Why don ’ t you have a seat? What ’ s the problem?
Correct! Another contrast is the rules for the general and the king. It seems the general or marshal in xiangqi is much too incompetent. They are required to stay in the palace, waiting to be checked and fleeing for life under the cover of the guards. Look at the king in chess, he is much more capable.
Oh, that's too expensive. Aren't there any cheaper ones?
in college. But I don't dance very often. What's your favourite dance?
No, I didn't. And you? Was it good?
Really? Ugh... Is there any difference?
Yes, I am. I really don ’ t know anyone.
I'm a little short. I don't have enough for you.
Quite a number. Actually every skyscraper has a history. A few blocks ahead we'll see St.Patrick ' s Cathedral and just across the street will be the world-renowed Rockefeller Center. It's a landmark in the history of architecture.
No, you idiot. I mean the poet, Arthur Rimbaud - R, I, M, B, A, U, D.
Yes. An automatic message says your phone is not in service.
How about we go eat in the cafeteria?
Two slices of whole wheat bread and one cup of coffee.
It’s a letter from NYU.
So, you finally got your doctorate in genetics. Well done!
I love rumba and waltz.
You have to maintain a minimum balance of $ 100.
Not at all. I ’ ll be glad to do it.
I'd like to book a room, please.
Why isn't the project done yet?
At what time was that appointment?
Why don't you go to bed and get up early? You'll have the same time for work.
Oh, I get it! You want souvenirs!
I got Jacob. Any ideas what to get him?
I ’ m working in a small company where further promotion is impossible.
We look forward to your early reply and trust that through our mutual cooperation we shall be able to conclude this transaction with you in the near future.
Yes, I owed you for last time.
We need to know whether you have the special training.
Shall we have a drink someday?
Yes, what about us having a tour?
What kind of food do they serve?
what ’ s wrong with it?
Yes, I think that's it. Can I get that on the Accord?
And bugs. They can catch anything.
Is 2:30 Okay?
It's too expensive.
And maybe we can go to a good Italian restaurant for dinner, after the museum.Chicago has some great Italian restaurants.
So you are happy that you made the decision to join us.
Good, happy birthday to you!
I ’ m jealous. I ’ Ve never been to Florida.
Your prescription will be ready in twenty minutes.
I'll go through the materials that you have given me and return shortly. Thanks.
What is good for you?
That's fine, thank you.
Oh, the music has stopped. Thank you for the dance.
Yes, I ’ Ve nearly finished, June. I ’ m sure we will win something this week.
I have working knowledge of Windows and Dos. Actually, I'm quite familiar with both Java and C + + Programming Languages.
Oh, no. You see I'm in the middle of something. Could he wait?
OK. I'll have a try.
Oh, you mean Canal Street?
My name is Mona White.
Yeah. How many tickets remain?
How is Jim recently?
No, of course not. Just in case. Nothing to worry about. Don't you also do this in China?
If you gotta go, you gotta go.
That's good. Not Evey company provides employees with training opportunity. It seems that your company wants to further develop their employees and encouragelifelong learning.
Go alone if you want. I will wait at that cafe and have a soda.
Sure. If I could, I would eat hot pot every day!
Well, first of all, I can only go to certain stores that can guarantee me a large selection.
OK, loser buys pizza tomorrow night.
Yes, I'm looking forward to meeting everybody and getting started on my new job.
What time is it?
Why? Just read your notes.You can see what the professor stressed in the lectures.Probably the exam will ask about things he stressed.
Can I see your driver's license?
Sir, the curb here is not for parking.
Certainly I can. I'll buy some from the butcher's and cook for you next Sunday.
Yes, I have two cotton of cigarettes one bottle of whisky.
Why did you go there?
Yes. I think I'm lucky.
Well, 20,000 RIB, it'll have to be then.
Please take a seat. Everything will be ready in a minute.
Do people here drink a lot of liquors?
At first it was, but now I've got the basics.It ' s fun.
Quite good except thinking of you so much.
You must be joking.Those two.
I don't think you'll need to wear it for a while. It's been really hot lately.
Is there easy access to the attic? We'd better look since there may be some flooding there as well.
Here it is. It starts at 8 o'clock.
When does it arrive?
I agree. People who don't read are no better often people who can't read. I also agree that books are like food for the mind.
Oh, well, that might be a problem. I usually only sign one year leases.
Bill, where are we going to stay tonight?
How do you do? I'm Mary Green.
No problem, sir. We'll manage it, but we don't have any spare room today. Could you wait till tomorrow? The American People-to-people Education Delegation will be leaving tomorrow morning. There'll be some rooms for you to choose from.
So you have two brothers?
What happens if you exceed the limits?
Well, I agree with you. I'd rather think that the butterflies are flying around in the mountains. I just wonder if they really catch so many that it affects the butterfly population.
That's right. And his wife is a baby doll, too. She used to have many followers.
May I try on this dress?
I don't think we will be able to pay the price. To have this business concluded, you need to lower your price at least by 3 %.
It was a pleasure, Mrs. Robinson.
Is this American Airlines?
Following the rules of world business, the exporters have the right to inspect the goods before the delivery, while the importers have the right to re-inspect the goods after their arrival.
What type of tools?
One second, sir, while I print out your receipt. Here you are.
not if you are good at net-working. Do you like to meet new people?
Yeah, the air is really fresh.
Yes, of course. That's quite an important point, isn ’ t it? As a junior sub editor we offer a starting salary of 150,000 HK dollars per annum. This doesn ’ t include a generous housing allowance al
You have done a lot of traveling. I'll bet you've learned quite a bit.
Did you already wash your clothes today?
Do I have to change?
I ’ m in need of your services.
Then open that window. Yeah, that one.
You carried it too far. You obviously offended someone.
Compared with healthy food, unhealthy food just tastes so much better. And anyway, I believe if you live a low stress Life and are active, you can get away with eating whatever you like. It's all in the mind.
I parked in the red zone.
I'm sorry for spilling my drink on your rug.
OK. What time?
How do you want it, sir?
All right madam, I'll check and tell them to be quiet.
I am happy. I just bought a new car.
Any marks on his face?
Hello, this is Steven. Is that Mrs.Wang? I'm just calling to follow up about the status of the personnel manager position.
Finally 100 candidates ran for one seat.
Well, we have espresso, cappuccino, latte, skinny latte and Americano.
I can hardly make ends meet these days.
Here you go. I'll wait for you to get on the green before I putt.
Sure, this way please.
How much will it be all together?
I see, D. But I plead you to help her.
It's on the south wall of the store, in aisle A.
I live on 1177 Oak lane in Smithfield. Oh, hurry, I don't know what to do!
Do you know the day they plan to open?
Well, it still hasn ’ t reached its destination. I wonder if you could track it down for us. Mr. Reynolds is a bit concerned.
That is a good suggestion.
I must apologize. I'll buy you a new one tomorrow.
Well, there are core courses and electives.
Why don't you take the CPA exam? You are already a good accountant, having so many years of experience.
Could you tell me the origin of the Dragon-Boat Festival?
What exactly did you see?
I didn ’ t think about it that way.
Well anyway, do you plan on going to school tomorrow?
yes, do you like it?
It’s OK. Where should I pay for the penalty?
How long do we stop over here?
Who? Me? Could't give up smoking? Nonsense! Of course I could! I know I could!
Thanks a lot. I'll tell him.
What'd you like, madam?
We'd like to welcome everyone to the Michelson Tools factory site, and thank everyone for being here today. My name is Paul Shafer, I'll be showing you around today. Please feel free to ask questions at any point during our tour, I'll be happy to answer questions for you.
I love your outfit right now.
Yeah? I guess so. I spent the weekend at beach.
Politics can be an expensive hobby.
Whatever you say.
I think that they should pay more tax. Look at the damage they cause to the environment and people ’ s health by discharging all those exhaust fumes.
So, we'd like to see some embroidery.
Sorry, sir. We receive credit card and cash only.
Did you take any pictures?
That ’ s OK.
George, I heard our eighth generation computer is appreciated by the guests. They intend to sign contract with our company. You have done a good job. We are so proud of you.
Yes, I am sorry. I missed the bus.
Yes, we are match made in heaven.
Ah, Mrs. Miller, but in this case am I covered?
I am attending Hebes University of Technology.
Well, so you will mostly be using word processing, for writing papers. I recommend the Corel Word Perfect program for word processing.We can talk about software later. Let's talk about your
Well, I lost my grandpa when I was only ten. I often recall the period when he fed me.
Oh, Candida Fawcett.
For two people. We would like a quiet table, please.
Sit here please.How would you like your hair done?
No, they're still working on it. Let's go into the garage and have a look at it.Isn ' t that your car?
The principal just announced that Dr. Smith is going to take over as dean of our department.
Sorry, guys. Could I just interrupt for a moment? My money is on the Yankees!
I love that vase.
I see your point. However, we have done more business this year than any of the previous years. I am very sorry to say that we cannot advance the time of delivery.
In two weeks.
Hello, Steven. Do you have any questions to ask me?
I'm sorry, Sir, but you will need to come in to your local branch to deal with the application procedure. Come in and fill out an application form and let us have a duplicate of your ID card. You'll also need a copy of your guarantor's and he or she will need to sign the form, too.
You've been always active and versatile. It seems that you are interested in everything.
What's combined transportation?
Well, it's true. The board man last thirdly and they choice Paul.
Well, black is a better color than pink. Pink ’ s for girls.
I also need some thumbtacks, whiteout and paper clips. Which shelf are they on? I can't find the number.
That ’ s good. What kind of electrical work did you do?
Your total comes to $ 5.48.
No, I'd like to book a single room with one double bed.
That's easy, how about a cowgirl? Oh I know even better, a Canadian Mountie.
Oh, doctor. Do I have to? I am afraid of needles!
Very funny! Get a move on! People will be here any minute.
I see, sir. Can you come back for a fitting on the 10th, that's in a week's time?
I ’ m trying to learn new skills. It makes me more qualified for a good job.
I want to use these coupons. Have they expired?
I haven't heard anything.
No. I won't need to see anything except your driver's license.
I know she ’ s head over heels in love with you. She will be badly hurt!
OK. But let me park my car in a better position. All right, miss. Where are the bags?
But I can't resist a good dinner.
Are you introverted or extroverted?
I have just had my new paper published.
Hi, dear, do you know what the important day is today?
Will it snow today?
Of course not.Sometimes a poor man can be extremely miserable.
You are a lost cause.
Things happen ; make sure it doesn't become a habit.
Just a moment, please. Let me check for you. ( A moment later ) Thank you for waiting. I am sorry but our flights are fully booked on that day.The next available flight leaves at 4:00 pm on 20th. Shall I reserve you a seat on it?
Were you here last week?
Hmm. Is that true?
I feel well now.
What would you say was the lowest point in your life?
Good. Thanks for asking.
Yes, sometimes I can hardly get asleep at night.
How about a cup of coffee?
The first problem is supposed to be solved after the investigation. About the second problem, I admit it's our fault, so we will exchange all merchandise that falls short of our sample.
To be honest, I don't really like doing either one, I can't cook and I hate cleaning.
The checkroom is just behind the front door.
Yes, I know. I must get my traveler's check and some foreign currency.
I'm here to pay my telephone bill. I usually go to the post office, but I was told that I could take care of it here. Is that right?
You ’ re not allowed to do that.
You're welcome. Have a nice trip!
But I purchased it yesterday.
That ’ s the best that I can do.
I don't know, but I feel terrible.
""" The final costing, including advert design and production, comes to forty-five thousand six hundred RIB. We want payment ten working days before publication or we will cancel the ad. Thanks for... """
I think I can find it.
Peter, go and tidy up your toys now.
I would like to make an appointment to discuss the problems I keep having with my apartment.
Do you think I am rich enough to make it? I am thinking about buying the apartment by installments. The real estate agency says if I pay a 25 % down payment, I can move in at once.
When do you leave?
Where do you want to be in five years?
That would be wonderful. The problem is I don't have an account with you. That is a problem, isn't it?
Yes, I've been observing them.
Actually, I have to go to school right now.
Do I have to deposit my handbag at the checkroom?
You've seen it before?
Let the universe find us instead of forcing love. We prefer natural love. The most important thing is to be happy. Love will find us later. That is what we say.
What does she like to do?
Could I have one more blanket?
Are you ready to go?
No, the other three girls major in a computer science, and they can help me a lot with the computer operating.
I'm quite outgoing, I think.
I ’ m very sorry.
How many stops are there?
I don't know. Who?
That ’ s fine. Take your time.
Wow, this car can really burn rubber.
Well, the afternoon will be fine.
These are chocolate, and those are almond-flavored.
You bet. I was supposed to call my mother an hour ago.
We'll have to discuss it with my boss.
How is your new dormitory?
Alright. Do you have your receipt?
I think I ’ m crazy about her.
I see, Mr. Baker. How many people are you planning to invite and how much would you like to spend per person?
That sounds good. Last year I paid $ 30.
Oh, that ’ s right. Go ahead anyways. I ’ ll fill him in. We can ’ t lose this order under any circumstances!
Certainly, sir. We'll keep it in the cloakroom for you. Here is your number. When you leave, show it to the waiter behind the counter, please.
Thanks for letting me know.
Well. I ’ m sorry you feel that way.
That's a good idea. But maybe we should move the car so that the hail doesn't dent it.
Yes! Yes! And yes! Jared, of course I ’ ll marry you!
He caught a cold yesterday, but he feels much better now.
Darn! Oh, well. I guess It’s just not my day. Thanks anyway.
Oh my God, that's great!
How often dose this bus go there?
Each of the runners that participated the marathon race paid a ten dollar entrance fee. Also, they went door to door to get sponsors who pledged a dollar per mile that participants ran. All in all we were able to raise several thousand dollars.
Do you have your insurance card with you?
Cheer up! It's not the end of the world.
I don't think I share your view there.The writer is writing about history, society, human nature and so on.It ' s too hard to understand.
You can have a free facial and then make up free for you. Do you want it now?
What color and what style do you like?
Would you mind moving to the middle of the bus?
What kind of benefit package do you offer?
That's because Americans love sitcoms.
she looked sweeter than her pictures.
I'm with you, Jane.
Well, let me take a look at my grade book. How do YOU think you are doing?
Do you like to drive the bus?
Ah, yes, hello. I'm calling to get some info about your PIN services. You see, my friend also has an account with you and also enjoys shopping on the Internet. She recommended I sign up for this service too.
That ’ s a perfect plan. Enjoy yourself.
"I said, "" Do you want me to help you? """
It’s just a simple decorating. I just want to add my personality to my living space.
Yeah.If we share the cab, it'll be cheaper.Besides that your Chinese is better than mine.The drivers usually have difficulty understanding me even though I practice my pronunciation carefully.
How will you be paying?
How many members were in your party in all?
Yes, the battery is dead.
Most women love red roses for their birthday.
I know. It was a really good deal.
This seems to be my size.
On July 7, I have to be there well before twelve o ’ clock.
I really didn ’ t, but I ’ m still excited.
let me repeat that back to you. That's zero, double seven, eight, seven, three, six, seven, double six, double eight.
Yes, honey. Go to your room, and take out your book. It's your reading time now.
yes. You know I ’ Ve been cooking more kind of food recently and I needed some extra space for spices and ingredients.
Is there any cable for the Internet?
The only problem is the price. It's not possible for us to make any sales at this price.
it's beautiful. Enjoy it while it lasts. It's supposed to get cold tomorrow.
Leave it to me. I'll fix it.
He's probably a pervert. Just ignore him.
I didn ’ t say that either. I was hoping we could discuss the matter together. I want your advice but I don ’ t want you to tell me what to do. I ’ Ve got to make decisions for myself, dad.
How would like to pay?
My expectation is in the 3800 to 4500 RIB range. That ’ s the take-home pay.
That's an interesting combination. How about western movies?
What sports do you like best?
Thank you. I will deal with it.
You didn't note the damage on the bill of lading.
Lovely day, isn't it?
Is there some way I can get into contact with him?
It would be good if you could get them to me by Thursday afternoon, Ms.Barkley.
No, there are annual bonuses, one week paid vacation a year, and health insurance.
Me too. I need something to read on the flight to New York. I can never sleep on planes. Sarah wants to pick up some children ’ s books for her daughter.
I know you are keen on photography. It’s very useful for you to be able to download photos from your digital camera. Then you attach the picture files to emails and send them to anyone, anywhere, at a
It should've been here 30 minutes ago.
You ’ d need a lot of training before becoming a farmer. It’s not something you can just walk into.
Hey there Chris, what are you up to?
Sure we do. First-class or economy?
I'm sure you did.
Well. We have espresso, latte, skinny latte, fancy coffee and Americano.
Well, off we go. I am sure we can have a great time.
I'm wondering whether you could come over for a pizza sometime next week?
I would like for you to not be late for school.
Really? That's really wonderful. I'm so happy for her.
What happened to you? You look like you got hit by a tornado!
Hey, Mike. Can I ask you something?
I heard it might rain.
just let her know that the experience will be both amazing and rewarding. And more importantly, you can manage both your study and the job.
So is it the right way to the City Hall?
Yes, May I help you?
I think I can accept that.
Good, by the way, do you finish reading the book Robinson Crusoe I've bought for you?
We should put some information about it on the home page of our university website. When people visit the website, they ’ ll see the information.
Yes. Definitely stay in the class. You will get a better grade than your test scores. He does that deliberately to make all the students study a lot.
Thank you for your application, Mr. Sweeney. Mr. Jacobs would like to set up an interview for early next week. Do you have time?
Yes, I was, Officer.
I ’ m afraid we are really short staffed this week, Mr. Cranial. I ’ d like to accommodate you, but I just don ’ t think I ’ ll have the time.
I'll be studying. I'm doing an MBA at Nottingham University.
That sounds interesting, but I can ’ t drink alcohol with the medicine I ’ m taking.
The ad said rent was thirty thousand. That includes utilities and phone, I assume.
OK. I'll come. See you then.
There are many art craft items in this shop. I suggest you take your time, and you might find something you like.
I've got 6 packets of cigarettes and 2 bottles of champagne.Besides, I have two cameras, one is for my own use, and the other is a gift.
I would like four pounds of ground beef.
In a minute, Madam.
No, I wouldn't be caught dead in a limo.
Do you want the large size, or the small size?
What did you mean?
Yeah, that's what I thought. But, I've heard that the perks are better. I was wondering if that was really true.
The tea smells good. What tea is it?
Wait a minute, what's that?... Doughnuts? They organic doughnuts, Kelly?
Is there anything else I should pay attention to?
Well, considering your qualifications, we believe you would be a suitable candidate.
This is our new brand. I can make sure our computer board is one of the best boards.
I prefer a sedentary job and I used to work as an operator.
Thank you, but I'm just looking around. How much does this skirt cost?
Well, this looks nice. Do you know how to use it?
Neither. I drove a hard bargain with the vendor before I got the price down.
No, not yet. First, I want to check about the availability and see if you could give more information.
How about your interview?
I think you'd better take her advice since health is the greatest wealth.
Shall we have some white wine then?
I have a better idea. Let's go to a jazz concert and I'll give you an education in jazz.
Let's catch the waiter's eyes. We want to have a table for 4.
Well, I must confess I am a bit claustrophobic. I hate being in an elevator for more than 5 seconds.
I just enjoy watching games.
Well, apart from full health insurance we do offer a company staff bonus scheme linked to readership numbers. But we could go through all the details of that at a later date.
This food is a Wax specialty. Please help yourself.
All the laundry will be ready by 5
What symptoms does she have?
Did you happen to notice if she was interested in any of the other kids?
How much is a soft?
Yes, it's really a surprise. How are you?
Sir, would you like some dessert now?
No, I like being single. I never thought lonely, I'm focus on my career. Maybe I'll start to look for my girl when I achieve success.
My height is one meter and sixty-eight centimeters. I've never had any vision problems.
Let me see your passport, please.
I want to buy a skirt, but I have no idea which one to buy.
We'd better go out for a walk.
Yes, I have decided to work with your company.
Then it must be a naughty boy who did it.
How do you do? Nice to meet you, Ms. Smith. I ’ m Jack Stevens from the Marketing Department. Here is my card.
Not really. I'm expected to attend a meeting.
Good morning, sir! Please know some about our latest products.
Let me see, no, you have to include more details about your final conclusion, for example, your experiences in dealing with some emergent events.
I don't think so. I'm just shaken up a little.
That's fine. I'll be waiting for you.
Do you think you'll be interested in studying law later?
Then why don ’ t we go for a walk in the hills. It ’ d be very good for us you know.
I have a great idea of where you might like to go.
Oh, it's nothing.
Thank you. I want to make a withdrawal of 150 dollars.
I was wondering if I could collect unemployment benefits.
A car door? You mean just one car door?
Would you like to go to the cinema with me?
Yes. When I spread it out back home, I found this hole.
I'll make sure and come to your next party.
it's almost exactly the same. I think it's a hilarious show.
Yes, just like Christmas in western countries, it is a time for eating lots of special food.
The waterfront location.
It’s a very quiet neighbourhood. There ’ s some traffic, but not much. It’s not very difficult to get to the city centre, but you must remember to turn left and right at the right places or you ’ ll get lost. So when are you going to drop by?
I see. All carry-on items must be able to fit under the seat or in the overhead bin.
Oh, don ’ t talk to me about last night! It was the most awful evening I ’ Ve ever had.
It sounds that sandstorms are trouble for everybody!
How much does the green one cost?
The same with the previous speaker, we must know how things stand with us.
Well, honey. Turn off the light, lie down and go to sleep.
Good. I think it's a good idea. Our department should require meetings like this.
I will do my best.
No, there is an updated virgin, three minutes video date. I know an online dating website providing such service with a microphone and webcam, you can sigh for it. You can be face-to-face with a guy talking for maximum three minutes.
Do you eat a lot of vegetables?
Give her up.
Yes, we've just had some wonderful tangerines in from Tailband. Here they are.
A single one with a private bath.
Yes, sir. I remember it. But our Chinese usually celebrate the New Year on lunar calendar.
Me too. In fact, I'm free until 1
Your total comes to $ 36.78.
Oh, good. What time does the flight get to Rome?
Have you got any specific proposal about the terms of payment?
What is over?
Sure. This library is too quiet though.
Don't worry. Besides, it's a lot cheaper to wash clothes this way.
I'm very sorry, sir, but we are unable to do that. We would appreciate it very much if you could call us instead.
At the end of the interview, you should make your acknowledgements and say Goode.
Hi, Stephanie. I hear you have a new job.
Maybe, the whirligig of time, who knows?
That ’ s my wagon. I need the water to water my flowers in the yard.
Read it yourself and find out!
There are some things I miss. But I love Chinese food.And I think the people in Taiwan are really hospitable.Besides, I grew up in Los Angeles, so I'm used to living in crowded places.Why are you going to America?
Could you do it for me, and write out a list of things that we need?
Have you heard about John ’ s obscene words towards the manager?
So is it ok if I kiss other women on the cheek?
It appears to be the only case to us, that the goods have been damaged on the way.
All right. All right.
that ’ s true. I ’ m wondering did you learn anything from the job?
At seven thirty pm, Longing Chinese restaurant.And I'll go to your home and pick you up at 7.
Oh, that's what I am looking for. Do you have a reduction for 6 persons?
Oh, yeah, maybe I should ask them just to walk along the railings.
Well, I can't help.
All right. What kind of room would you like?
The more expensive, the better.
Absolutely. Thanks for coming Rebecca. Goodbye.
Can I do anything else to help with the itching?
I think you need to get a brain surgery. Honestly speaking, you look charming.
You could be right.
What are you doing now, Steven?
Elvin doesn't hold a grudge, if that's what you're worried about.
well, what's the problem then?
I want to ride a camel and definitely see the pyramids!
Let's do it this way. I'll take him to your place this Saturday. Then you two can make a schedule.
I've heard that when this happens, it's important to save energy.
OK. What kind of dressing would you like? We have vinaigrette, Italian, and French.
Yeah. Though she was so popular, I heard she managed to maintain a low profile.
Boy, this surely doesn't help us much.It could be anybody.How about his cloth? What was he wearing.
I have a problem with my credit card.
We have some catalogues from U. S. universities. You may check in the reference stacks over there.
Have you ever thought about joining an organization committed to protecting the environment? You could get involved with projects to improve the environment.
A very powerful 2.5- liter turbocharged engine, Trust me, this car is fast!
Put the eye-drop into your right eye 4 - - 6 times a day, 1 - - 2 drops each time. Squeeze a bit of the ointment on your eyelid every night.
Dear friends. Here, I wish to say a word of thanks for holding this send-off party for me. Actually I didn't expect at all for this. I owe a lot to all of you here. It's been 5 days since I came to visit here. Time really flies. I feel grateful for your welcome and help in the five days. I will miss you while I am leaving. Let's keep in touch in any way. What's more, to the success of our face-to-face meeting, to the upcoming cooperation of our two companies, bottom up!
That's rock and roll with fast tempo.
How about the cinema?
No, I couldn't make it.
I see. Well, I can help with the chores while I ’ m here. You two could probably use my help.
May I use your phone?
Over here with the waterfall in the background, please.
Yeah, I know what you mean. The first year of any marriage is difficult for all couples, not to mention two people from different cultures.
What should I do if I notice a fire?
Oh. It’s awful, but it can ’ t be helped.
next time we are about to dinner we should try some Canadian ice wine.
But you did it and did it well!
Yes. I'm going to the Untied States for travel. What places do you recommend?
How much do we owe you?
It should work, but let me know if it doesn't.
The beauty under the tree?
You see, I have these Euros, and of course they are of no use to me at the moment. So I'd like to save them in my account, but I'm not sure how to go about it.
One kilogram, too.
When is he coming back?
As a journalist, I have strong communication skills. I am good at both discourse management and strategic competence.
Don't you think it's a little early to be looking for schools? We haven't even had the baby yet!
OK, that's fine, Sir. We just need to ask you some questions for security purposes.
Will you be needing anything else?
I'd like you to quote me CIF Karachi.
Thirteen yuan, please. Here is the receipt and change.
The concert was really great.
Yes, maybe. But I feel better since becoming a vegetarian. Maybe you could also have a try.
It took us all day.
It's 8736. Here is my key card.
That means he was head over heels in love with you.
Oh, Montreal of sure. It has more restaurants and clubs.They say Montreal is the most exciting city in Canada.
Do you take Master Card?
Well, you can buy some from that vending machine over there.
I was sick that day, and couldn't make it.
Hey, let ’ s go to the night market after work tonight.
That's sad, but have you gone to the movies recently?
Where's the busiest street of this city? I am a stranger here.
Well, I confess. I did it, because I urgently need money to buy some medicine for my mother for she is badly ill. I'm ashamed that I did that.
Housekeeping, may I come in?
All right. Should I take a look at your battery?
Alright. See ya!
Hi, do you have any tickets for the show tonight?
But what you should do is study hard.
I am sorry, ma ’ am. Our general manager is not in town. But I ’ d be more than glad to get you our assistant manager, if you like. But I am afraid that he will say the same thing. We have very clear instructions about valuables and we must follow them. And now if you will excuse me, I'll go and find our assistant manager for you.
Hello, Jack.It ' s good of you to come.
Let me see what's available. Yes, Air China has a flight on May 5th at nine fifteen in the morning.
What happens if I can ’ t leave on April 13? Can I cancel my ticket or change the reservation to another date?
Okay, here you are.
What about the 3rd round?
So how can I make it?
It would be nice to go to the beach sometime this weekend.
I'm sorry, I'm afraid you've dialed the wrong number. There is no Petti here.
Would you like to go to the top?
You heard who won the election, right?
It's a green drink. It's supposed to be full of vitamins and minerals.
That's right. What do you think we should do as a hobby?
Would you please tell me about the Fortune magazine?
Sure. When do you want to get it back?
That won ’ t be a problem?
I believe there ’ s a sitcom.
Really? No, they couldn't. None of them would have jobs if they did.
Do you know how much this job offers per year?
I don't agree with you. It's too small to live.
That is the best one I have seen. I am sure our target customers, young people will love it.
What you said is true. But the film producers there are more flexible ways to get more audience. For example, to make more movie Ccds, so people will spend money buying them.
Hi, Mr Wang, who do you wish to speak to?
I quit my job.
Don ’ t say that. It owes to your efforts and team spirit.
My favorite movie is Superbad.
No, not at all. I was on the swimming team in high school.And I'd like to do some weight training. They have decent equipment at that gym.
No, we are just too different. This isn ’ t working.
The fee is 25 cents every day.
As far as I can see, Westlake Restaurant is a good choice.
Basically. you'll watch any type of movie except horror.
Is there, sir? I'm very sorry. I'll change it straight away.
Why did the boss come down on Joe like a ton of bricks.
How often do you go?
This first one, I have a question... This graph is marking the sales performance for our line of hair products, right? Can this line be right? It looks like our sales plummeted. I can't believe we did that poorly... If I remember correctly, sales went down slightly, but not as dramatically as the graph shows.
Are there many people there? Do you think people actually like them?
I work there every year.
It's a great pleasure to meet you, Mr. White. I believe you have seen our exhibits in the showroom. What is it that particularly interests you?
Yeah, tell me about it. I know! Your mom is trying to learn Spanish, right? Why don ’ t you get her a gift certificate for this great website I saw called SpanishPod.
I knew there would be a catch!
My choice would always be tea.
I understand. I need a lipstick, too. Do you have lipsticks in red?
DM210 is equivalent to 400 RIB.
Julia, I have good news for you.
I told her that she should call me back at my office number.
Good. Dinner is nearly ready and I ’ d like to watch the news before we go. The Oscars were last night and I want to see the results.
Hi Marry, this is Tom.
Yes. Which one is the brake again?
Hi, Jim! When did you get back?
I feel pity for the old man.
I am trying to call home.
That ’ s not good for me at all.It ’ ll have to be another time.
My paper is on the influence of television on children.
Miss Fallen, can you tell me why you want to get a visa to the States?
I really don't care, just go to sleep.
Actually, Costa Rica isn't in South America. It's in Central America.
yes, though I don't think her acting skills are that great.
Of course. One of the real pluses of this product is that it is of very high quality, and of compact size. No one can match us so far as quality is concerned.
They will be ready this afternoon.
could you feel my forehead and check to see if I have a fever?
No. I think a half gallon will be enough.
That ’ s very kind of you, but It’s nothing special.
She must have done a lot of work on it.
Three times a year at most. How do you feel about this?
no, I want to come back to China after I graduate.
Mr. Ted, I have to apologize for that and I assure you it won't happy again.
I honestly don ’ t know what else to tell you.
Yes. It seems she can never accept a childless marriage. We had a fight last night.
I was just thinking about someone I went to school with, this boy I was quite friendly with in third grade. We used to hang out together - he lived next door - but then my parents moved and I changed schools and never saw him again.
in most cities in China, doggie bags are quite uncommon.
That's easy.
We can infer that the non-discrimination principle is one of the most important principles of TO agreement. This principle requires equal treatment of domestic and foreign enterprise. Does the principle also apply to domestic enterprise of different ownerships?
What does a mango taste like?
That ’ s fine. I would also like a few shirts and a jacket. I don ’ t need them specially made. Those shirts over there look very nice. Are they made of cotton?
I ’ ll take this blouse and skirt please.
It was fantastic, but I'm glad to be back! Being a tourist is really tiring!
Mr. Chen can't make it today.
You're right.The air is so warm and everything looks so fresh and green.
I'm sorry, but I don't know that name. You must have the wrong number.
Why don't you get a new one?
A highchair and car seat! Wow Betty, thank you so much! I really appreciate it!
Sure. But please attach this claim tag.
Really? Why we must have warm and fresh water?
The price is on the tag. How would you like to pay?
Let me see. Oh yes. Your professor has placed this book on reserve. That means you cannot find it on the shelves in its usual place. You need to go to a special room called the reserve room. It's down the hall and to the right.
Not me. I'd like to be a bachelor forever.
Because I like the feeling of cooperating with others.
Taylor, you're sweating up a storm!
This is Linda.
I want to have it the size of a page from an ordinary book.
May I come in, Mr Sun?
I'd like to be an overseas tour guide someday. Would there ever be any chance of that?
It should stop you from overdrafting.
My grandmother needs me to help her trim her roses that day.
May I call you about our final decision?
People must want him as our President.
If I am not in the service center, I will assist others in resolving the consumer complaints. And pass the criticism on to the relevant department.
Yes, we could also make this arrangement,, if you prefer.
Is he an easy grader?
Well, you know journalism is a highly competitive world, so you do need to keep pushing yourself It’s true. Okay, well let ’ s move on to talk about the job position here, shall we?
Sorry, we have sold out the tickets.
But this chance is really precious.
Do you want to get something to eat later?
I think that an apartment with two rooms and a kitchen would suit your needs. I can introduce you to a place for rent near your school. The apartment is on the 7th floor, so it is very quiet and suitable for studying.
Yeah, I ’ ll try to do the same. So, I was wondering you wanna go out to dinner Friday night?
Melanie, can you help me with something? We need to finalize the account with the Mexican Embassy and, I need some advice on phrasing this letter correctly in English.
Are you having any luck with the worms?
I like watching it for the fashion. I like to see what the ladies are wearing. Of course, the men nearly always just wear the traditional tuxedo.
We are going to climb a cliff on the Yangtze River.
All right. I ’ ll repair them for you.
And how well can you speak them?
What's this for?
you can also check out university bulletin boards.
I'm glad you like it.
Another note? But how? I didn't see anyone!
I'm sorry to hear that. Thank you for telling me a little more about it.
Yeah, many of my friends like Chinese tea and whenever I go back to China, I'll take some Dragon-well green tea for them.
Is it Thursday? I mean if I let the chance slide...
All right, we'll come right away.
how about some mascara? That will make her eyes look bigger.
I don't know. A friend of mine said I should try it.
I think the Olympics help to promote world peace.
No. I'm afraid I haven't had time since I got married.
Where else haven't I been to yet?
OK.Can I see the room now?
Anything to get me up and running.
It's. I think, neighbours on the right.
Have you traveled by air before?
Can't complain. And you?
Can you deliver them, please?
Yes, sir. American breakfast with fried eggs, sunny side up, grapefruit juice and a black coffee. Am I correct, sir?
How many pieces of baggage can I carry on to the plane?
That ’ s true. I got the news yesterday.
What about ' Farewell My Concubine '? I've been wanting to see it for a long time.
More people start getting on around LA.
To think of it! All my old silver! It meant so much to me.
Linda, that would be a perfect addition.
( Pointing ) This one here.
Here's your $ 200.
I think this is the coolest watch I've ever owned.
Hello. It's good to see you again, Ms Harrow, sending more money to your grandson today?
Hum... Why not go shopping the day after tomorrow? Tomorrow is Saturday. I hate all the hustle and bustle of Saturday shopping.
That's great. I will go hiking with you.
Did we miss our stop?
What is your aim in going into the field of journalism?
What is the price of this house in the flyer?
It was that final sprint! You were great! Really!
In the playground, miss.
Would you like to dancing tonight?
Why didn ’ t you phone me from a callboy?
I'd like to check in.
Right. Stop thinking about it. Where do you think we can save more money?
I'll share it with one of my friends. What ’ s in a one-bedroom apartment?
I was almost on line the whole night.
Maybe I should try to lose weight.
Yeah, he got booted after his initial performance in the audition, but he did not give up. He then tried at another two auditions.
Sounds like you will be doing some serious cramming till Friday!
How far up the street are the traffic lights?
I think I would like the pants pleated. I am not sure about the jacket though as I'm a little overweight.
Yes. Does that mean I'll have to pay duty on it?
The accounts department, I think.
Certainly. For how many people?
No joke! That's why she hasn't married yet.
Let me see. Eleven yuan.
Where is the parking structure at?
Yes, this is Cindy Wang of A & B Trading Company in New York.
Yes, very much, if it wouldn't add inconvenience to you. First hand information is always more valuable than reading pamphlets.
Maybe I'll run away first.
yeah, he advises me to stay in a good mood. That can help one to keep sound physical health.
I am sorry for making you wait so long. Now there is a table available in non-smoking section. Please follow me.
I ’ m sure we will.
I just have some cereal each morning.
Room reservations. Can I help you?
To go, please. ( The attendant hands the customer his order. )
This is today ’ s schedule. At eight thirty, conference with the department managers. At 9 o ’ clock, live for the workshop where you ’ ll award prizes to the stafffor preventatives.
I think there's been a misunderstanding!
Now, close your eyes. ( Mum closes her eyes and Steven puts the present in her hand. )
Sorry, it's not available now.Anything else?
Yes, I'm looking for a cap.Size 16.
Oh, really. Mm! How much is the fare?
This room is overrun with cockroaches.
Sure. Would you like go with me?
It's the fourth one this year. Isn't it horrible.
Sure. Anything to drink with that?
Well, in that case please give me some free drink.
Maybe after the next generation of technology comes out, the price of this model will become more affordable.
Our 10th wedding anniversary?
No, I don't. So I need some help.
I think I'm convinced that trying for this position is the best choice for you.
Yes. I am very interested in the Olympic Games, and I'm especially excited about 2008 Beijing Olympics.
I did, but he wasn't able to either.
I see. How do you control the quality?
If you like to play so much, when do you ever exercise?
There's a check for two hundred dollars and a photograph.
I already had that idea.
How long do you think it will take us to complete the walk?
I don't know the number, but it's definitely the room that's next to the stairs.
Well, the north of Norway is almost always cold, but further south it can be fairly warm in summer. It’s a wet country, so there ’ s snow almost everywhere in winter.
Will you help me take these things to the car?
Could you give me an example?
You know what, this is the best part. David is a junior investment banker at Fortune Bank, so he ’ s got a great career path ahead of him!
Yes, it will be your utmost interest to protect your intellectual property such as your innovations, idea, designs and copyrights in your target country.
Take a look at this dress! Don't you think it's perfect for you, ma'am? Uh, where are you going, ma'am? Ma'am?
of course! I really love watching football games on TV.
Wow, you're not kidding. Hold on a second. Hello, could you give us a hand, please?
Excuse me. Sir. Where is the No. 1 bus stop?
Of course, sir. We will press all the clothes when they are cleaned.
I would like to talk to you about this year ’ s election.
Ok, home or office address?
You know what? I don ’ t really need the money. Thanks anyways!
What about if we order a large amount of exercise books?
Thank you for telling me.
I have to see a sample. Bring me one this week, please.
Yes, sir, it's $ 20.
what was your wedding ceremony like, Abigail?
Maybe I'll also have a try some day, but I'm afraid that it would be difficult for me to refuse meat.
No. These terms need to be amplified.
Can you describe the plumbing problems you are having?
Hi! May I help you?
Yes. It is the latest product and is highly recommended because of its fine design and quality. You certainly have an eye for good things.
Yes, we are.
I saw the Sixth Sense. I didn't know it was going to be so scary.
Of course! Of course! Here you are. Thank you so much.
it's a deal.
I was worried about canceling the climbing.
Yes. What's your size?
Were there any injuries?
I am not good at picking gifts. Maybe you can ask if there's anything she needs to make it easier?
Yes, I know. After 90 days, you need to call the company that manufactured the vacuum to fix it because It’s still under their warranty. Their phone number should be in the direction book that came with your vacuum.
Besides that, many people took to gambling and got in over their heads, and gradually ruined themselves.
Yes, it is. Conrad is gay. Didn't you know?
what a nice garden! Look at these tulips!
Foreign Currency Deposits Counter, yes. What can I do for you?
I have to say, I have had enough of this roller coaster.
Now you put the key in the ignition and start the car.
I guess it is a little pricy.
You're welcome. If you ask the conductor when he comes by, he should help you find one.
Before I answer that, I want to make sure that you know what I was looking for. Are you clear on what I was looking for?
Who will get the money?
What do you think of the test?
I'm afraid we don't. Won't an English edition do?
For example, if your birth date is January 12, 1987, write 01/12 /8 7.
I was told to take a look at it this afternoon and take care of all the paperwork.
Let's go practice your driving.
Wait a moment, Mick. You haven't... Mick? Are you still there? You haven'tgiven me your new address. Hello? Mick? Hello?
Good morning! I'd like to buy twelve tickets to Beijing for October 14th.
Yes, we have it.
Hello, you seem a little lost. Can I help you?
We're going to investigate this claim.
I heard that you are famous for your drinks. What are your specials?
Do you come here often, Laura?
Good morning. Vane Theater, at your service.
I've been away on a vacation.
Here ’ s 50 dollars. Keep the change.
Oh, I make a phone call once a month.
Now, you are to board the plane.We ' re sorry that we haven't done much to help you when you stayed in China.
yes, good luck, Maria.
Well, we didn't ask for this room service maybe someone else ask it, I ’ m sure.
My old man always harps on me.
Yes, I ’ Ve looked everywhere downstairs.
That's terrific!
Can I take your order now or do you still want to look at the menu?
You know what, I've just got a new job with a computer company.
Let's keep in touch.
What else can you speak?
Parents usually give their children more freedom in my country. Sometimes they give them too much freedom.
How much does that cost?
Quite well. I got my MA degree two weeks ago.
Oh, dear. Did you lose a lot of money?
Tell you what, I'll be calling Jim late this week anyway, so I'll mention it to him then.
I'm very sorry.sir. I'll ask the manager to take care of this.
Good. I'm starving.
No. Edith didn ’ t give anything to drink.
It doesn't matter. We'll be in touch.
I guess he gets that from me, I never did well in math when I was a kid. What can I do at home to compliment what he is learning in the classroom.
Are you going to go and visit her and the baby?
I think perhaps I need to buy a few years while I figure out about my career.
Thank you. I try to keep in shape.
I also think good advertising is essential to call attention to a product and introduce our L-series products. Meanwhile, ads are also the representation of the company's image.
I feel it's rather dry here.
What?! You did that? ?!!!
Shogun Restaurant of Pasadena.
do you think the fathers should have some kind of say in the matter?
Don't worry. I'll write you a prescription for a new medicine that works wonders.
That means that they all have parts of the original gospel, but not all.
That is the most beautiful sunset!
excellent. Come in please. The washing machine is in the bathroom upstairs. It keeps breaking down.
I do it, too. You know, sometimes when we eat, my child would pull a dish towards him and grab it with his hands and eat. And if it were something he doesn ’ t like, he would spit it out and throw it into other dishes. He does it very often. I really get mad. I can ’ t help spank him sometimes.
Two years, please.
Excuse me. Can you tell me where l can buy a notebook and a pen? I need them badly.
It’s a good idea to have a radio, isn ’ t it?
In fact my records were excellent. My overall GPA was 9 on a 10 scale, which was the highest in my class.
That sounds fine. Why did you choose to apply to our company?
I'm fine thanks. How about you?
You look pale, Paul.What ' s wrong?
It wasn ’ t there.
Welcome to IBA. Which service do you require?
On, what ’ re you doing? You look as busy as a bee.
Don't worry. We will keep you well informed.
It's late.It ' s high time I left.Thank you for a most wonderful evening.
Let the men take the lead!
This is delicious! The ginger and lemongrass really gives it a nice taste!
Yes, we are. Obviously, we'd like something as cheap as possible. We've heard that there are places for 80 to 100 pounds a month.
Right, that's no problem. I see you are already well informed. If you choose that one, you can borrow up to 70 % of the total tuition and miscellaneous fees.
Would you please fill in a deposit form first? Please write down your name, your account number and the amount you want to put in.
Busy with your work again?
Could you please look at the five men in this line-up?
Oh, this is nice and light. But it has an aluminum handle.
Yes, Jason, right? Nice to meet you. Welcome to Taiwan.
All right, but I'm busy. How long will it be before you can finish the talk?
I received some leaflets in the post from you, one of them talked about a new service you have where you can transfer money between this bank and securities companies. Is that right?
Didn't I tell you to call when you're running late?
Yes, Sir, go ahead, here you are.
I think with International Business a language would be appropriate.
do you know where the visa office is?
Yeah, it is! Why is it so expensive?
You lost your wallet? Anything important in it?
I think that will work out just fine. It will help when you move your groceries in and need to keep them cold.
Is there anything else I can do to help with the itching?
The machine gives you an edge over your competitors, I guess.
Get up, you lazybones!
The library is next to the Adminstration Building. The Adminstration Building is over there near the school ’ s main entrance. There are school maps for free in the lobby of the Admin.
Which is easier to learn?
how did your interview go?
Well, I talk to myself. That is, I play one role first, than the other.
I bet that you wish you hadn't done that.
I want to save some US dollars into my account.
Yes it is very easy to use and each system installation comes with a 3 - day employee training seminar.
Nothing earlier? I prefer flight at nine thirty.
Sixty-five? What the...? How did you bargain him down, Wei? You've never even been to a flea market before!
It began leaking a couple of days ago.
Do you offer a course in business management?
She is quite young and her hair is blond.
Oh, maybe three years. I will study and get the master degree first. Then I will decide whether I will stay there or come back.
Can I have one each?
You are not funny either. I can't believe I married a woman like you.
Can you call an Ambulance?
They will tell you the aid is impossible.
Shakespeare was born in 1867.
Great idea. But the fact is we have no barbecue with us. Moreover, the sashimi will be great. So why do we bother to waste time on barbecuing the fish?
Wow! Really? Are you sure? Now I'll have a lucky year!
thanks for flattering me 。 i think you dance much right?
I could try, but I can ’ t say for sure if I ’ ll get up in time. What time do you want to go?
Now we have to walk all the way down to the end of the street.
I'm not used to other brands.
Autumn is the best season in Beijing, you know.
No, not this weekend. I have too much work to do.
Here is the film. Can I get my pictures tomorrow?
Our neighbour ’ s tape recorder is so loud that it annoys us to death. I ’ Ve made up my mind to cut the electricity off.
The ship will stop at New York.
It's usually a bit hotter than today.
That'll be five yuan forty, please.
Oh, I forgot to tell you this. The show is to collect money for children in need. And all the money from ticket selling will go to the Red Cross.
How long does it take to get to downtown from here?
Thanks. Where is my seat?
Can you give us a rough idea of the quantity you require? It is generally known that the price varies according to the quantity.
I like neither.
OK, sir, I'm sure it's your bag. Thank you for your cooperation. You can have it now.
No, that's OK. How much do I owe you?
I'm sorry. The agreement hasn't been fully prepared. It will be ready by tomorrow.
It's so interesting, I like it very much.
Oh, honey. You came. I'm so glad! Why are you wearing a bonnet?
I want to be a lawyer in the future and the Law School was one of the best schools in Harvard.
How many years have you worked as a Production Manager?
I want to become certified in computer programming. Do you offer any part-time courses for adult further education?
Yes. I'm in the last chapter now and it is just gripping.
In order to achieve that objective. I would work step by step and make further study.
Gramercy Tavern is at least as good as our own hotel restaurant. Plus, they have live jazz.
Hi, Rose. How ’ s everything?
Good morning, Madam! Can I help you?
Could you cancel a check for me?
Okay. Let me think about this.
Can you lend me one?
nobody exercises anymore-not even kids! The average american home has the TV on for 6 hours a day!
But promise me, you'll keep it a secret.
Three. Two adults and one kid.
Yes and shall we go fifty-fifty for the wine?
Huh? I can't hear you, the music's too loud.
It's summer in Sydney so you have to bring your summer wear.
Sure. Please come this way.
Actually not at present. But we are afraid it will. You know policies influence business to some extent. I hope our government will not be influenced by some extremists. China is really a large market. We don't want to lose it.
Yes, it was quite a long flight. I'm glad to finally be here.
So do I!
He's a hero in our town.
Oh, it is beyond my purse.
What is your nationality?
Mom, look, that cake looks delicious. My mouth is watering.
Include endowment insurance, medical insurance, unemployment insurance, work-related injury insurance and maternity insurance.
Of course I wrote down the work that I had done on the Continued Claim Form.
Yes, I swear.
Anyway, we haven't won the Pools, and we're not likely to win them. So there isn't much point in talking about it, is there?
There is a square in front of us, we can park the car there.
Haven't you ever seen him working late?
My pen name is ' Dark Blue '.
How did you spend the weekend?
Excuse me. I will go to Wangfujing, where should I get off?
I will. Thanks.
I guess the most important thing is companionship, right! So there is always somebody there for you that will like you no matter what.
Has the chief accepted our plan?
Yeah. What's the difference between the Winter Olympics and the Summer Olympics?
I don ’ t think it makes sense. Three minutes is such a short time.
can you think of anything else?
Are you kidding? Whoever heard of paying for hotel souvenirs?
Well, the echo and the stereo system helped a lot. And i know that song very well, so, i didn't need to pay attention to the subtitles which helped as well.
How would your coworkers describe you?
But it was her that makes us so embarrassed.
Yeah, maybe. Alright. Give me an application form.
You'll find the parking structure on the west side of the campus.
It's just what I want.
You swim in a swim station just like you run on a treadmill.
Yes, I am. Are you Miss Li from the travel agency?
I ’ ll need to meet with you before you go on vacation, Alex. I have a few things to clear up.
Yes. I graduated from shanghai University and later obtained a master's degree from Oxford.
Yes, because I think being interesting thing is the best teacher. Or have more opportunities to have career growth.
You mean the large one or the small one?
Yes, I intend to go to university. That'll be in September. But it all depends on my A level results.
I heard It’s a very good movie.
But you just got here. Can ’ t you stay a little longer and have some tea?
Should we put our samples on this table?
Where do I catch the train?
nothing but the best from my dad. I like everything about it except for the brakes. They are a bit sticky.
Thanks. And could I have his e-mail, just in case I can't get him by phone?
I'd like to make one now if I could.
That's why I promised that invoking would be up and running by the end of next week.
Yes.Does that mean I'll have to pay duty on it?
I help out at the children's hospital. I help plan activities.
Which leg do you want to have, right leg or left one?
I know. I was expecting my wife, you see, and thought it was her.
I take more than 50 courses in university, including microeconomics, macroeconomics, marketing principles, sales management, statistics, and so on.
I'm feeling hungry.
Yes. I bought the can two days ago, but today I found that is beyond the guarantee period.
Can you suggest a few exercise to help me get fit and stretch my muscles a little?
Don't take too much off. I'm trying to grow my hair longer.
That's all.Thank you.
Jenny is getting married.
Today, you need to pay 20 RIB in handling fees.
Well. There was one type of plant that catches insects and eats them.
Wow, I like concerts.
No, it's the first time I've been here.
I'm going to work.
Simple, it's fun.
A dozen 30 - cent stamps and 6 envelopes.
I thought he was maybe gay, but I wasn't sure.Anyhow, you don't expect me to go into a gay bar, do you?
Does this mean that if i might want those new European bitches, i am supposed to wonder run reget?
Julia, why have you prepared a candlelight dinner? Anything special to celebrate? Did you get a promotion?
It's no problem.
It's the Cygnet Trust.
What degree have you received?
Here ’ s your ballot card.
No, this is my final offer.
I hope so too.
I am afraid that can't be done. We have never done business on such terms.
I have some lotion that the doctor gave me, as well as an antihistamine.
Thank you for joining us this evening at Chez Attitude.
Well, I quit breakfast, so I had a rich brunch. I feel like having something mild for dinner
All the sightseeing in china is very attractive and crescive.travelling to China is very worth one.thank you so much for your guides, and I'll miss you.
Yes. They ’ re coming the beginning of August.
It tastes funny. Why can't people just stick to plain and simple coffee?
I need to make sure that my wife will be financially secure if I die.
Hi, how ’ re you doing?
Yes, of course. What's the amount you'd like to change?
Wow! So many people in the United States get divorced!
that sounds great. Do you know if there are any vegetable dishes that are spicy?
How often do you ride the bus?
I'm afraid it's too narrow across the shoulders. Do you have a larger one?
Miss Sun, could you please type this report for me?
Well, we could eat in more. That $ 300 for entertainment is mostly going to restaurants.
you know ; I heard that she was opening a school for underprivileged girls in Africa.
I have passed the five courses required by the Chinese CPA Association, but the certificate won't come to hand until next month. How about that?
Mr. Crandall, I ’ m sorry, but I really don ’ t see the value in doing this entire project over from scratch. It would take a lot of work.
You ’ re right. It’s sometimes hard to tell which pages are advertisement and which ones are articles.
I'm sorry, I didn't hear you clearly. Could you repeat that please?
Sorry, sir. It's the sale price.
Sure, we are off Singing Road, close to the bank.
What store do you shop at?
Me too. How is your family?
Well, she is not to blame. It's always difficult to choose between career and family.
I'll surely make introductions for them.
Good morning, Miss.Are there boat tickets to Miami on the first of September
Sure, it is 80 yuan in all and you have to give me another coupon.
Yes, a coffee would be nice, thank you.
At the age of 64? You're kidding!
I wonder how old these things are, thousands of years?
there's a great sitcom on Channel 3 that stars in about three minutes.
My main responsibility is trouble-shooting between top management and the general employees.
Then could I have four orders, please?
Patience, boy. A watched pot never boils. We shall get out fishing stuff first and make some baits, too.
These are French coats, sir.They are quite fashionable these days.
Yes. It includes electricity, water, gas and cable, but the telephone is extra.
Oh, do you like Chinese?
And if there aren ’ t any e-mail addresses?
Oh, sure. It's very stuffy in here.
It was the same as the last place I worked at. I was hoping you ’ d be different.
Yes. All the quotations on the list are subject to our final confirmation.
What's your opinion about childless couples? Will you choose to have no kids?
Look. Here are the core classes. Everyone has to take them.
It kept me awake.
An outlet carries cheap cashmere sweaters.
oh, what is it?
Let's change the stomach, I mean, the subject.How about some food?
You ’ ll make more money that way.
Well you know, it's a time to get together with all your family and be thankful for everything!
Okay. Put her through.
I've no idea. Oh yes, and the most ridiculous thing. He asked me what I had for breakfast this morning.
No, fireworks are awesome!
I heard that it's going to be warm this weekend.
It really depends on you.
Hi! Someone has reported a fault on one of your copiers.
Well, it's just that I think if you don't enjoy doing something any more, you should stop doing it.
Oh, that's a very expensive brand, but with good reason.
Do you sign the register, please?
I only had time to visit Edinburgh.
Don't worry. The traffic is smooth. You will be there in time for your flight.
241 Main street.
Yes, but this was the worst turbulence I'd ever experienced in my life! Everyone started getting sick. The flight attendants had to stay in their seats. The captain decided to land early.
Where does it go wrong?
Just give the man standing there 3 yuan and he'll give you a token. Then, you slip it into the slot at the turnstile and push the turnstile to get in.
How big is this parking lot in our community?
Where did he go?
( The customer gets the aspirin and vitamins. ) That'll be $ 16.00.
I always drink too much wine in the evening.
It's a little like being a mom, only I get paid for it!
How big was it?
Yeah, why not. Do you have all the ingredients?
Well, unfortunately I have got something to do this weekend. But let me see...
Sorry, I can't go today.
Who was the director?
Then, why are you on the bus with me?
200 yuan for each person.
You're telling me.
I am a little nervous about my presentation on Friday.
Everything is gone, sir?
I ’ m sorry, but your card isn ’ t working.
True, and I like the kitchen. It's new and well equipped.
Dark, maybe dark blue maybe black. I'm not sure.
People can ’ t have it both ways. If you live in the country, it is often less convenient. If you live in a city, it is noisy, buy there ’ s more to do.
How Ay days will the reunion be?
One day more.
Yeah, it is a good idea. You can stay in my house for the night if you would like to.
You, too. Where did you get your new hat?
When can I see the one-bedroom apartment?
You know it is not necessary to pay the balance in full every month.
well I have been thinking about getting a newer car. I can't afford a brand new one.
Yes. It costs fifty cents for the washer and a dollar for the dryer.
Yes, and they didn't get my order right either.
What fools we were!
It sounds like a good idea.
All right. Can you tell me when I will be able to get through?
Fine, Mr. Grant. Thanks for your time. I ’ ll talk to you next week.
I think so. You can get anywhere by bus and taxi is not expensive.
What height is she?
I think it will be very useful in many ways. Beside, shanghai is an important trade center, not only in China, but also in the world, English is useful in almost all walks of life.
Excuse me. would you lend me some wreckers
I think you've got the flu. There's a lot of it going around.
Lin is a common Chinese last name.
I am getting ready to take my GRE.
On a Friday night?
Hey, daughter. Let me ask you something.
You mean your sister?
What's your favorite kind of music? Do you like pop music?
You shouldn't use my example. It wasn't special. I kind of wish I made it more special but it's too late now.
Hi. Bob! We've been working hard at our lessons for a fortnight. So why don't we take it easy this weekend?
Yes, I took my temperature last night. It was 102 degrees. But right now I feel my fevers is up to 103 degrees.
I want a haircut just like that kind.
Save it. If you want something to eat, then make it yourself.
No we are gonna make the batter. Take some butter and sugar and mix it lightly until you have a nice consistency. Then add some vanilla extract and eggs and continue mixing.
Well, It’s nice to have a husband like you.
Good morning, can I have your ticket, please?
Well, I was a diligent student when I stayed in my college. I dislike meeting the deadline, when I am working on a project. I am always willing to complete it well ahead of the schedule.
Your medical card No., please?
Come this way. Here's the dressing room.
Certainly not. What really counts is to play as a team, passing the ball amongst each other, dodging defenders. Free kicks are a result of all the teammates ' collective efforts. However, a few free k
Yes. This is Barbara in room 209. I ’ d like to order breakfast, please.
Money is not the only standard to decide your career. In fact, there are more important things you can refer to when evaluating your career. If I were you, I would choose one I like to do.
No, this is the first time.
Yes, I am. What's wrong?
You can have a bird view of Chilin City from the top of the mountain.
Today is May first, 2003.
It's right past that last building on the left. Do you want me to go with you?
We'll have to hurry ; visiting hours will be over soon
You really want me to cook tonight?
Yes. I love it, too.
Open your heart Dick. Don ’ t shut us out.
It's not what I asked for.
13924774026. All right. Thanks for calling. Oh, hang on, someone's at the door that may be him, please hold on.
I'll take it too.
Of course. Here is our thickening mascara. We also have mascara designed to lengthen the eyelashes.
It's ten thirty.
No reservation? Well, then, do you have any rooms available?
I have a laceration on my left forearm.
Hello, Mr. Compton? This is Susan Miller.
When would you like to fly?
But that is a little risky, you know.
You said there were other alternatives?
I don't know. It looks a little wrong down.
Yes, I agree. I think it is a cultural characteristic.It would be very hard to get us Americans to change this.But you know what? Probably, in the future, Americans will have to change.
Could you tell me where the dishwashing detergent is?
Oh, yes. Madam, we'll come right away then. Your room number and your name, please?
I prefer to learn English. In my opinion, English is easier than Chinese.
I am so nervous now. What a terrific game!
Where can I get it?
That's the company policy.
Tell me if it's still not working.
Of course. As we provide many different services for all of our valued customers, we like to give than a special place to do their business with us.
Please look at the sky.Don ' t you see the dark clouds? It's going to rain soon.
Good! Julie, if you could pass this plate down to Joe, I think we are all set.
All right.Maybe next time I can go with you.Bye!
Well, she asked me if my parents wanted me to be a steward.
Very good. Sit down, please. Susan, what's the general idea of the text?
sounds a good idea.
Take the magazines out of the bookcase. Put them in that box.
I know they aren't good for you, but they are cheap, convenient, and fairly tasty.
No, but I heard about that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt didn't attend.
Hello! I'm sorry to bother you. This is a complimentary fruit tray. Your food will be ready soon.
Well, we deducted a portion of the income that you made from this week ’ s check.
I tried it a couple times. But I don't like it. I like alcohol better.Don ' t worry about them, though. If you don't want to smoke pot, you don't have to.
Hey Joe, how have you been?
You are an eager beaver.
If a passenger had a accident, what would you do?
What did you need to talk about?
It's got a built-in video camera so you can see the person you're talking to. It also takes stills and I can use the E-mail mode to send digital pictures straight to my friend's phone!
Yes, I agree. We'll make sure that they get notified. Can you find the meeting place?
What seems to be the trouble, Mr. Brown?
If you get on before 4 p. m. or after 6 p. m. there is saver return which is $ 9.45, an ordinary return is $ 16.45.
I can ’ t find the business card. Do you know the address?
I did learn that.
I have no idea where my class is.
Of course, just five minutes ago I got the phone call from Future Clothes Company and I was told to start my trial period in that company next Monday.
Jane, I appreciate it very much. I expect to see you get nominated pretty soon, too. You've been doing some great work!
Really? Let ’ s go there.
I know your sister. She's very nice.
A trim and perm.
Walk that way for about four blocks. The hotel's about two blocks north of there.
What would you do with all the animals? You couldn ’ t just let them go. Besides, some people would still hunt them. Meat has become an integral part of our diet.
I'm clear so far.
No, that's not good either. But give me your phone number and I'll call you if somebody cancels.
Really? I didn't realize it was so late.
Admittedly, I don't. But I still beg you to give me an opportunity, and I'm willing to learn with my best effort.
perfect. I'll start preparing tomorrow. If we're going to drive, I'll need to fill up the tank.
Oh, you look quite slender and more vivacious. What have you been taking? Are you on a diet?
Mr. : Why don't you sit behind Brad?
Yes, may I help you?
I'm not sure. Let me give a call to find out.
You know on a date, they are going out to dinner.
It doesn't take much time to make?
OK, thank you!
You've made an excellent choice, sir.
I was thinking of seeing You, Me and Dupree. It's a typical Hollywood blockbuster.
My toothache started nearly a month ago. The pain's been keeping me awake. Would you please have a look?
You get 5 paid sick days.
That was last time. This time it's worse.
Yes, indeed, People say he's the smartest young man.
Don't worry. There are all kinds of things in the center.
Hi there. How can I help?
Well, it's my fault because I didn't study as much as I should have.
I'll make note of that. Now, what are your salary expectations?
Is that the girl you spent almost every weekend with?
Of course! Let's go.
Well, I've found out a lot about this type of work and my research suggests that I would be quite capable of doing the work involved. I also think that I would be able to handle any training course reasonably well.
I went to the doctor yesterday.
Great. I am not interested in Chinese chess. It is too difficult for me.
To which gate do I need to go to catch connecting flight 101 to New York City?
Look, Lucy. Things are not so bad as you said. This is our company ’ s busiest time in a year. You need to relax a little. Don ’ t push yourself too hard, ok?
Did you already take the history exam?
This time included?
It's exactly twelve minutes past seven.
I'm freezing. Turn down the air conditioner, will you?
Ok. That sounds like a deal.
That sounds good. It will give my wife a chance to dress up.
Wow! This sounds like something my wife would really enjoy! Are there any outdoor activities we can take part in?
I am here to have a discussion on your company's investment issue.
That ’ s not enough.
Please book it under the name of Mr. Peter.
I know. But she said she had an important thing to tell you.
Oh, I'm fine.
My battery's flat in my mobile.
An impressive officer is vital to the image projected by the company.
You bet. I ’ ll swing by after lunch, okay?
Oh, my god. A diamond brooch. It's so beautiful. You're so kind to me, A. Thank you!
Let me think a minute. I think I always try to take every chance to practice.
No. My father takes the dog for a walk every Monday, Tuesday and Sunday.
thanks. We should be ourselves. There are so many fashion victims out there.
Simon, may I introduce you to Linda? You don ’ t know each other, do you?
Sure, no problem, sir.
Yeah. I got sick and tired of her nagging all the time.
We need you to urinate like you normally would, and then stop and finish into the cup.
Meat, I think.
Well in total we have around 150 employees based in Hong Kong with another 400 in our head office in Beijing. The news desk staff in Hong Kong comprises around 80 staff.
I just bought these slacks a week ago. And I am a regular customer here. Can you make an exception this time?
I went bankrupt and I'm flat broke now.
Certainly.Let ' s to and meet him now.
May I see the manager of your company?
One moment, please. Ah yes, Mr. Hilton, you booked a single room for three nights. Is that correct?
Last week, I tried to buy a new cellphone online, but I didn't know how to pay for it.
Can I get dinner here?
Soda or water?
Oh, it was nothing. Anyone could have done it. I still have a lot to learn yet.
If you lose your job, you just have to go for a few months without buying all the junk you usually buy. If you live frugally, you ’ ll save plenty of money.
Better now. We are just back from the hospital. We were lucky to meet a well-known doctor.
But that's what the ad said.
Well, sir, I know some of our customers are concerned about cruise control.But Honda has never had a single cruise control malfunction that led to an accident.
Hello, Sir. You're here to discuss the Network Settlement Service, right?
Don't be so frightened. It's just a skill.
Ok, I see.
Certainly sir. May I have your room key, please?
I need help preparing for my presentation on Friday.
ooh, that's my favorite. Maybe I'll have a small slice.
Well, I have to take all the fundamental course, plus a few from my major.
I was only kidding, because Obama won the election.
Mary, I will have an interview tomorrow. I am so excited!
What do you want to do?
Then I will have to pay quite a lot to listen to music on line, isn't it?
By the coming September.
Bill payment, please. I'd like to pay my electricity bill. I heard there's a new way ; I'm sick and tired of all this queuing!
I've said you will enjoy your life here!
My advice would be to finish it at once.
But some classmates said you took the money.
You're welcome. Your boarding pass and baggage check, please.
Yeah, you remember that assignment I wanted? When I heard the manager had given it to someone else, I blew my top. So the manager fired me.
Yes, of course. We have Treasury Notes with two, three and five-year terms available.
Here is the agenda for the meeting and that's all for the messages.
I see.What if the person wanted is out?
I know who we can ask. There is a girl I know, Sara Ralston.She is 17, and she will usually take this kind of job. I know her from my church, and I trust her completely.
Well, I have them in my bag. I'Il put them on right away!
Oh, wow! There are lot of sites.
Hi, come on in. Can I take your coat?
Please told Tim to close the door to the basement. I don ’ t want dog down there tonight.
No, I've tried them. But I'm not really a smoker.
626-555-1739. Thank you for doing business with us, Mr. Sandals.
Mr. Foster, we will be expecting you this Tuesday at 7
Yes. What do you want to buy?
Thanks. If I ’ m interested, I ’ ll go to the library.
I'm afraid we can't agree to that. We concluded the business with you here in Houston, and the goods you ordered are manufactured in New York. We wish to point out that all orders accepted by us are shipped from New York or Seattle. Hong Kong is out of the question.
Who's winning?
Yes, we do. I'll show you several kinds.
No, I don't. Please.
Thanks very much for your help, Li Lan. See you tomorrow.
Yes, emergency. There is a huge fire here.
Sure. My number is 545-8897, and I live at 908 Mulbury Street.
I fully understand your position. An irrevocable letter of credit ensures that the seller gets paid in time. But, on the other hand it would add to the buying costs. We've been, after all, trading partners for 3 years and you know us well. Can't you give us D / A or D / P?
But it's really too important to me.
Daniel, would you like to have a look at my dorm?
Let's have four coffees, please.
My husband goes out drinking with his friends every night. I'm fed up with it.
oh, no! I thought it seemed a bit strange.
When did you start it?
That ’ s not too bad.
Pam, where's the closest ATM?
Oh, well. If I must, I must.
It was founded in 2002, has been in business for 10 years.
I will be available on Monday or Tuesday. Choose which day is best for you.
I can't let you go back to sleep, because you won't wake back up.
Perhaps you should apply to banks as well. They need people to market their service. As you said, the banking industry pays well.
I was also interrupted by her last week because of such a thing.
I come from the city of Tangshan in Hebes Province.
Do you have any questions?
That dress is too expensive.
Yes. The gas station is on the left. And you can't miss it.
It's nice, but that's very steep for a rain coat. Could you give me a 20 percent discount?
Our computers have a high level of quality now.We can demonstrate it. And our prices will be good.So I think it will really be worthwhile.
it's possible. Give me a minute and I can fix these for you and then we can go.
I think it unwise for either of us to insist on his own price. How about meeting each other half way so that business can be concluded?
What's the weather like in your country? I suppose it must be warmer than here.
Good for you. What items did you bid on?
The jacket is tight in the shoulders and long in the sleeve. What about the price there?
Here you go, and here ’ s your receipt. Have a nice day.
Yes, madam, I agree.What size are you?
Well, we have many models to choose from here.Do you have a particular brand you want?
it's just off of the ring road.
I hate to admit it, but they're good. And fast. The Filipino kid is a genius.
What? Why! I am taking an intercontinental flight! I ’ m flying sixteen thousand CMS! How am I supposed to only take two, twenty kilo bags? That ’ s absurd!
Cool camera. What are its features?
Is Betty Sue in her office?
can't you wait till you get home? then you can surf the internet using the broadband, wireless connection or whatever you like.
I am not sure. But it'll be at least ten yuan an hour.
What is our time frame?
That's true. We can not judge people by appearance.
I joined a health club and my trainer gave me tips on eating. With a combination of eating better and exercising, I managed to lose 15 pounds in 2 months.
What should I take first?
Since summer is coming, I think swimming is a good way for you to do.
What kind shall we get?
Which institute did you choose in university?
OK... Do I put on Magnolia Company for the receiver?
Can we talk about the working overtime issue? What ’ s on your mind?
ok, ok, how about we just go Dutch? It's settled. Listen, I'm still pretty new around here, would it be alright if you found the restaurant?
OK. Give me one, please.
Yeah, and we can get to know each other at the party.
Yes, I was the top student among my classmates.
Yes. It was starving and looking for something to eat when I saw it.
Let me get the manager to sign one for you.
There wasn't really anything that I could do. There's always been a lot of bad blood between my manager and myself. If I had said anything, he would have fired for me for sure.
Tomorrow is Sunday. Let's go out and get some fresh air.
Oh, I will have a sweet dream.
Sure. While you ’ re in the computer store. I will visit the book store opposite. I like to browse through their books if they have anything interesting.
yes, but it's blurred and a little dark.
I'm going to the store downtown this afternoon to try on my wedding dresses.
how dare you!
Mary, this company is pretty good. I really want to have an interview.
Yeah.And I'm going by bus.
vegetarians are truly remarkable.
How do I get to the post office from school?
Are you hungry? Do you want me to buy something for you to eat?
Definitely.They don't take relationships and marriages very seriously.
Do you want small bills or large?
Well, you have to get 166 credits, including required courses and optional courses.
Of course. I have one I can suggest.
You too. I hope to see you soon.Goodbye.
Yes, sure. You need to put your card in the slot.
I read or go swimming, go shopping, usually. I run or play tennis or do something else like those to get some exercises to keep fit.
Oh, no. You can register for free. Just go to the yahoo website and it will tell you how to do it.
We allow one or two pets but you have to pay a $ 300 deposit.
Let's put it over there.
Yes.Is that so important?
We will give you a detailed instruction manual if you buy the table.
If they wanted to say something about my call last week, why didn ’ t they sand it to me?
Just plug the Ethernet cable into your computer, and you'll be off and running.
I already voted.
I saw a program a few months ago about how animals are raised for human consumption. I haven't been able to eat a single piece of meat since.
Sign? What ’ s sign?
That the game was lit!
I think you have a small fever.
Hi there, Mr Brown. Are you depositing or withdrawing today?
I think about twenty-five.
I know It’s not.
Was this your first time?
Could you? Thank you.
What personality traits do you admire?
To the office. I'll be right back.
not just working experience. I would say the biggest lesson I learned is how to deal with people from all walks of life.
All right, I will explain it to you later on. Now scram.
But if he always destroys toys and asks you to buy new ones, what will you do?
I am not sure. You can search for them on the Internet.
Yes. I ’ ll be here tomorrow morning at 10.
I wish I could unsay the sharp words to him. He must hate me very much.
Hello, Tina. An acquaintance of mine has just told me that your bank has started a new Personal Wealth Management Service. Is that right?
It's when someone takes a look at another person's palm 4 to tell the future.
I want a dog. My friend Mindy's dog just had puppies and she said I can have one.
Thank you and bye-bye!
Really? How do you know it was Santa?
I hope to major in English literature, but the admissions counselor told me that many people change their major many times in their first year, so we ’ ll see.
Nice try. I wasn't born yesterday, you know.
Tuesday would be good for me.
Do you want to go get something to drink?
And I have to get up early, too. Are there any non-stop trains to Beijing?
that's great news! You look much more relaxed than you did yesterday.
I heard it is only about one hundred twenty dollars a month for 8 lessons.
Well, there is one thing.
Yes, I do.At Ann's house I will call the phone company and have them check my line.If they can fix it right away without coming to my house, then we'll just return here.But if not, I need to wait at Ann's house to talk with the theater guild.It ' s very important to me.
We ’ re on our own tonight, dad ’ s taking mom out.
What's you name and address?
I will travel to Southeast Asia this summer, so I need to exchange some US dollars. Can I get the foreign currency at any bank?
Yes, I do.
How well can you speak them?
Yes, I just forgot where the bed linens department is.
I'm throwing a party next Saturday.
She said I couldn ’ t until I had my birth certificate. Here it is.
Hey, Daniel, how's it going?
Here is your laundry. I am sorry to tell you that one of your clothes has shrunk due to our fault.
That's too complicated.
I usually go to the supermarket, near the station.
There are clubs for beginners. It's cheaper to buy those rather than rent them a few times.
I know! But it's really important to her! Her whole life could be ruined by this man!
Is the lake very polluted?
Yes, that's right. That's very good.
Yes, come in please. I am Mr. Li. You must be My Liu, right?
Hello, Bill.May I borrow your pen?
Okay, now I ’ d like to find out more about your last job. I see you spent almost four years at the London Weekly, is that right?
It's 2781703 1.
OK. I hope so.
Thanks, sir. You too. Drive safely, I hear there ’ s a lot ice on the roads.
No thanks. We just need our check. Have you seen the waitress?
I wish we could, but we can't, you see, we are not insured.
Are you a smoker?
Did you buy anything?
Last summer it was very dry, too. Don ’ t you remember? I had to water it every day.
I've been trying to get through to the booking office for the last ten minutes. But the line has been engaged all the time. Why is it taking so long?
"Oh, no. Everything we sell here is "" as is. """
My mother bought me a new video game.
Look at this headline - Elvis Baby Born on Spacecraft. Where do these tabloids get such crazy stories?
I won ’ t be able to do that right now.
Why are you cut up recently, Nancy?
I'm going to the pub tonight.
I needed to get out of the house. My parents just went ballistic over something my older sister told them.
Steven! What ’ s going on! Who were those guys? I didn ’ t know you have a gun! What ’ s going on!
Good! Have you got the recruitment information on marketing?
To buy or to rent?
It’s all so interesting. I ’ ll have to find more information about it on the internet. Or perhaps I should try and attend your geography class.
You really do a good job.
That shouldn't be a problem, Madam. I'm sure we can sort this out for you quickly.
That sounds pretty good. OK, I'll change 500 USD today, thanks.
I don't really feel like a walk.
That ’ s true. But even beyond that, there ’ s the question of meeting the deadlines they ’ Ve set.
Caesar salads are good.
6 yuan. And I can make them as new as before.
Oh, my birthday is in December just before Xmas so of course nobody remembers.
Does it come with a modem?
Why did the teacher criticise Myra in front of the whole class?
What arrangement will you make about payment?
I want to leave the department. Do you think I could put in for a transfer?
And in the meantime, how do you pay the rent?
Pardon? I can hardly hear you. I will call you later.
I haven't the slightest clue what I'm going to make.
Only about fifteen minutes.
I see. When can I receive your confirmation?
Just a moment, please. I'll draw up your bill for you... Thank you for waiting, sir. Your bill totals two thousand six hundred and fifty-eight yuan, including the phone and laundry.
Me too! I was lost three times ten years ago. There were no English directions then.
Because English is nothing but a tool which is used when people may negotiate in international conferences, probe into physics, release some information in a press conferrence, and do anything we can do with language. Therefore, an interpreter has to know some expertise in the field he / she serves as an interpreter. Otherwise he / she can not carry out his / her work smoothly.
Do you think he can do well?
Hey, Zina. You're here early today.
Here is your change. Please wait for your receipt of the registered mail.
OK. Let's see. Give me a sheet.
thanks for helping me with it. If you hadn't encouraged me to do my best, I wouldn't have ever been able to pass.
Yes, Ms. Ross? What do you need?
Not at all!
I didn't like my brother's batting around without doing anything useful.
thank you so much for your advice. I'll think it over.
Hi, my sweetheart. It’s Dad.
A Direct Debit means that every month we can arrange for all of your utility bills to come directly out of your account, no fuss, no hassle.
there's an opening in the creative design department. It involves working with computers.
Yes, we do deliveries for orders over $ 15, ma ’ am.
Don't you wish to employ RIB of ours? US Dollars might be adopted.
Let ’ s meet at 12 thirty. it will probably take us three or four hours to see all of the exhibits.
I heard about it, but I don't have any clothes made from silk.
That's very expensive!
Is there something else you need that you can think of?
Yesterday! But no, we are hoping to start from the beginning of next month.
Do you feel like a king in your castle?
How many people does your company employ?
No, I don't. I just don't know how to handle this. This is my first time, you know.
Oh, sounds nice.
They sell everything.
What is your purpose of visiting?
Mary, there's one more thing that you must do for me before you leave.
School has added several new courses to our grade this semester. I have more homework to do now.
We ’ ll see.
Tell me what you eat in the morning.
It looks like I might have convinced you to go to Australia!
I'll use ginger, garlic scallion, hot pepper and vinegar.
Wait a second. He shoots, he scores!
It took three of us to move it.
No, thank you. I don't like milk in my coffee. I like black coffee.
It's such a nice day outside. Let ’ s take a walk into town and do some window-shopping.
Really? What kind of prizes?
Let's do this. Since I'm not sure when I'll get a chance to read the material, why don't I give you a call if I have any questions. Now, I'm really sorry, but I have to get going to this meeting.
religious people blame it on pre-marital sex, not on abortion being illegal.
Good evening. Can I help you?
Well, at least we have Stars.com. That'll be great publicity.
Are you sure? Then, I will have more beer, please.
Let's go to a car dealership. I'll help you try to sell your car for a good price.
no, I think it's mostly the older generation who are against abortions.
But I am still traditional, so I felt weird when she paid for herself.
Come off it.
Yes, I hope we meet again.
Do you want to hear a funny joke?
Well, I am a regular member of this club.
I'm afraid she isn't available this afternoon. She has an opening at 11:30 this morning. Will that work for you?
Would you like this color or other colors?
I... I failed to pass the examination. How I wish I had studied hard.
Thanks! ... Hello, I have a parcel to deliver.
How are you doing? Pretty good, I imagine?
Is your boss coming by?
I am having an exam at nine, It's already eight thirty.
We do. We will spray the apartments before you move in.
Who's that guy who's handing out beer to everyone?
That ’ s not a small fee.
actually, I do. I took quite a few photography classes at University.
Can't hurt to try. Carpe diem. Who can say if we'll be here tomorrow or not?
... I know I'll be killed if I pee on the toilet seat.
That was the only problem that I saw.
No. We took a wrong turn somewhere.And Joseph doesn't know the town at all. So I started giving him directions.But I didn't really know where we were. So we got seriously lost.
Yes, I think it is possible more important than the salary.
That's a good school. What do you study?
What do they say?
Well, it's not as crowded as we expected, is it?
I know all the tricks of the trade. It is quite tiring and difficult to be promoted.
"So, that's one "" Fried Rice, Hangzhou Style "", one "" Fruit Salad "" and two bottles of Carlsborg beer. We'll send them to your room in 20 minutes."
Incredible. I really want to survey the on-line virtual supermarket.
Yes, we give 5 % discount for one week, 10 % for two weeks and more.
OK, I ’ Ve entered my PIN. There are several options on the screen. I guess I just choose which service I want, don't I?
Was it expensive?
I'd really like a salad with chicken.
Long time no see, George!
Yeah, that's nice.
You ’ d better double-and-triple check it. You don ’ t want to have any embarrassing typos on your resume. Otherwise, you might shoot yourself in the foot.
if life were easy, then we ’ d achieve our ambition quickly and then get bored.
For sure another day.
What are their names?
But Larry says the neighborhoods in the north are dangerous.
Mr. : Right here is the cafeteria.
Every two weeks you will receive a Continued Claim Form that you must turn in.
No problem, Jenny. Are you sure five hundred is enough?
Yes, I've been thinking about Florida.
Yeah. So did you do anything else?
That ’ s too bad. How are things now?
Good morning. I'd like to buy 2 tickets.
Wow! It is huge and you can do many activities here.
Bad. My nose keeps running. And my forehead is burning.
Do you know what, let's change the second call to 7 thirty.
I think I should be more careful next time.
nowadays, you can be a DJ. You can mix dance music. You don ’ t need to be able to play musical instrument or sing.
He told the police that Ted was the murderer.
Sounds good. The food there is fantastic too.
We have sirloin steaks, pepper steak, and filet steak.
Yeah, I believe it, but I want to know if you will give me a raise.
I like miniskirt.
it's a job at a recruitment agency.
Yes. I'd like to make a reservation to Los Angeles on Sep. 19th.
Just leave the stuff by the curb. The company ’ ll send a guy out next month to give you the bill.
I'm sorry, Mr. Sandals, but we accept only MasterCard or VISA.
I ’ m being charged with a felony.
You are unfair to her. She is a very nice girl.
I need about two to three weeks for necessary formalities. I will quit then transfer to your company.
I had no idea – and look at these charges for movies!
That ’ s right. Another thing to remember when you are surfing is that you can add a web page to your list of favourites. Your computer will remember the page and you can return there quickly next time you want to visit.
Oh, honey, you should study harder.
Oh, Tom! They sound fantastic. I really like all those things.
You ’ re kidding. We ’ ll never make it across in one piece! Let ’ s cross at the light.
Me? Oh, no. In fact, I only took up dancing quite recently.
it certainly is.
Sure it is. Is it convenient to get there by plane?
How long will you be staying at Hotel in China?
Yes, its design is very elaborate and the designer took many weeks to make it.
O. K. Are you planning on being in the delivery room, sir?
I'll wear that if you'll wear these Speedos.
very much. The birthday cake was delicious, wasn ’ t it? Emily told me that she and karen made it themselves.
No. I only want it to be a very good one. The best.It ' s a graduation gift for my son.
Yes, I ’ Ve been got all his albums and most of his films on DVD. I adore him. He ’ s my idol.
Do you insure package?
No, everything has to be perfect.
The mosquitos are biting me!
What about a motel?
I don't know about that.
My date's very sophisticated, so I'm sure she would expect nothing but the best.
Is it their home, office or cell phone numbers?
They released me the next morning.
Why not try on this lovely pair of shorts? I'm sure they'd look fabulous on you.
OK, but I think you should keep an eye on your plan if you see what I mean.
Sure, what do you need?
By the way, what kind of stores do we need to go?
You are welcome. Looking forward to seeing you again.
Ok, then please bring me the steak mediun-rare, thank you.
Nice to meet you. My name ’ s Sophie.
Oh, hi. Thanks for getting back to me quickly.
I really like the book you lent me the other day.
Yes, there is. Teenagers do not want to live traditional lives. They want to go out, have fun, and explore the world. They want to develop their own view of life. Parents usually try to discourage them, but they don ’ t often succeed.
Much better. Thank you. I just feel tired but I can't fall asleep.
Did you have a good journey?
I guess it is. Most countries have on, but we don ’ t.
Mmmm... if I come in and collect it this afternoon, is there any way I could use it today? Petty cash is getting low, so I need to draw some money.
Welcome to IBA. How can I help you?
When will the lecture begin?
And Steve is going to look after you until we come back.
That vegetarians was lowkey awesome.
I'm afraid we have nobody available at the moment.
Can't Elvin handle it?
Where did you have it done?
sure. Here you go.
OK, maybe you can try this one on. It's yellow.
I don't know. Can I send it more quickly?
It seems all right. Do you have pantaloons?
Italian, Indian, and Chinese. I ’ Ve only recently started cooking Chinese meals and I need some more practice.
I ’ m betting the New York Yankees win. How about you?
Why should I do that? It's only a piece of garbage. Why should you care?
You would have to order in excess of 10,000 units to be eligible.
not really, but I liked the design, so I got it.
Well, I studied French at school, but I ’ Ve forgotten most of it. I learnt some Russian while I was studying there and now I study Spanish in evening classes. Do you speak Japanese at home with your parents?
No. I couldn ’ t find a policeman.
When will she be back?
Could you recommend some dessert?
Calvin, how much money did you spend last weekend?
What about the quality of the pictures?
What good is it for?
Hi! Fiona? I almost didn't recognize you. You are much thinner since I last saw you.
May, is the university a terrible place?
How does $ 850 a month sound to you?
At two thirty.
Oh, my God. It's nearly eight, I have no time to have breakfast now. My watch says seven fifty.
You are smart.
I hear that John's leading a double wife.
I have time to speak with you. Where would you like to purchase your house?
Nothing, Mummy. I was hungry so I came here for some milk.
Wow, that would be very convenient. How much is the rent?
Don ’ t hold your breath!
But I get scared the moment I see a needle. How could I stand having needles in my body for hours on end?
Thanks, I appreciated it.
I want $ 150.
I think one better way to stop it is to cut off their financial support.
Haha, I'm afraid it's simply because no one wishes to be too noticeable by finishing off the plate.
Yes, that's what I thought. It's so much trouble coming down here or to the post office to pay all of my utility bills every month. So, what exactly do I need to do?
Hi, there ’ s a problem with this stereo. I ’ d like to return it, please.
Do you think we should be talking about him like this behind his back?
Well, I'm glad you're finally back. I was wondering what happened.
Let me just get five more minutes of sleep.
leo, I really think you ’ re beating around the bush with this guy. I know he used to be your best friend in college, but I really think It’s time to lay down the law.
I am totally fed up with my boss. He has crossed the line one too many times with his sexist comments. This time I am really going to report him for sexual harassment.
Oh, I see. I like to do those tests, too, but I don ’ t take them seriously.
Well, it's the 10th and on the Tuesday.
What am I to do?
I thought you would like PE.
Oh, It’s love at first sight.
What do you think of our new teacher?
I am sorry to hear that. You have to fill out a claim form.
Is there anything special they would like to do?
If so, counter Strike and Might & Magic are good alternatives. Counter Strike is one of the hottest shooting games and Might & Magic series are popular among girls because the game has attractive plot and interesting scenes.
I had fun talking to you.
Dutch, where is that?
No. I only need to check your driver's license.
You can take a No. 2 bus here.
Is that different from our school's English course?
What a racist! How can you stand working with the guy?
don't worry. i'm sure our etiquette will become a natural part of your behavior as time goes by.
Good morning, I would like to make a doctor ’ s appointment.
Not at all. We can adjust the payment methods depending on the requirement of each employee.
Why not just tell him I'm sick? I'll ring him myself this afternoon.
I find that every employee here respects that manager very much.
What's up? You look depressed.
Sure, ma'am. Here you are.
The problem is you are too nervous. You want to have a strike so much, so you deliver the ball too hard. And when it comes to the I second roll, there's no pressure. That's why you could bowl all those spares.
Is your wife with you?
Anything that can keep my skin clean will do.
Shall I give you a ride home?
Definitely. I've also been buying organic fruit and vegetables, which is more expensive, but much better for you because they don't have any pesticides on them.
So, you have your own car?
Look! Are those all your clothes on the couch?
Do you think that maybe you are getting the flu?
In this office, we encourage full attendance by offering a bonus. If you take any leaves, we'll deduct money from your salary.
Hi Angela, it's Dan.
Do you know what kind you want?
Let's leave then. I could take some fresh air, anyway.
Well, I enjoy the popcorn and being with you.You ' re more important than the movie.
What ’ s the weather looking like today, Kenny?
Must I stop all my training? Will I be able to attend the games?
I'm sorry, I must have been confused. I had thought it's C section, but actually it's D section. I'll move my car right away.
Linda, this is David Wang.
What kind of character do you think you have?
Good, and please get some water, glasses and ash tray ready as well.
I'm from New York. Oh, this is my stop. Bye, Robin.
Anything else I can do for you, sir?
I'm number seven. What about you?
There were six of us.
I know. Last week he gave me a lie about being too busy.
I ’ m so happy for the family! They must be very relieved and excited about that.
Your English is fluent.
People of different races are fit for quite different sports. For instance, Asians are especially good fattable tennis, badminton, diving and shooting. They seem to have been born with certain natural endowments in technical sports, in which flexibility, agility and quick reflexes are favorable.
Are you busy next Saturday?
I'd like a gin and tonic.
That's the wrong direction. Canal Street is on the other side of Chinatown.
Yes, that's a video camera.
Hey Sarah. Why are you limping?
Cabbage? Is that what they teach at school now? OK, honey, it's spinage.
Why don't we go for one now?
Just look around? Ah, that's boring.
Nice! Let ' s go!
I'm going to see the doctor this weekend.
yes, I do. I find it very relaxing. I often listen to Mozart or Bach in the evening after a hard day at work.
I guess we'll see each other around.
I brought some cards. Are you up for a long game?
Have you made your hotel reservation yet?
No, I can't. I'm sorry. I have to help my mother. We're going to move tomorrow.
I ’ Ve got a business call that I really need to take.
Thanks a lot. Good-bye.
Pretty busy. I have to pick up a lot of credits this year.
It is a bit lower than I expected. But I can accept that. What are the working hours?
I agree. We need to recycle our trash and use public transportation more often.
OK. I see.
I suggest you go to the Jewish Museum.It ' s not far from the Guggenheim, near Central Park. It is really very interesting.Also, there is a great museum of medieval European art further up north.It ' s called the Cloisters.
Of course. They will be used at anytime before or during flight.
I worked in Hanson Paper Company.
Yes, two of us.
Well, such things are just unavoidable in a great metropolis like Beijing. I think a still more desirable benefit is psychological. Bicycling home after work can help release your stress. Life in the offices is miserable. You just sit there in a daze, gazing at the monitor and dealing with files and documents. Why don't you give a full play to your energy after work? Enjoy the speed on the road. Just think, you are flashing past the poles with your own energy. How great!
Playing tennis twice a week will be a good start. Count me in.
Those bushes are covering the stop sign.
I just transferred from another school.
How to maintain a high standard of nursing?
you didn't have an offer?
Sorry? What does VOC stand for?
Thank you, you too.
All right. Do you have the receipt?
Can I get my hair done like his? His girlfriend has the same hair, and she's white.
No need for that. It's not usually busy on weekdays.
Of course. I will prepare a good gift for the new arrival.
Yes, what is up?
Then would you please go to a dance party with me?
I'm going to need to see your ID and $ 27 for your permit.
Honda is OK.
I did notice a few stains in the carpet.
Of course. They will be happy you asked about them.
Two people were robbed last night near the park.
Too sudden! I'm not ready for it.
I suppose that the assembling of these components and parts, particularly the marketing of the finished products should take place in China.
I can predict it will have the largest circulation in one or two years.
That shouldn ’ t be a problem.
I am a student and want to live in Haitian, so that I can live close to my school. I like to play soccer and I like a quiet apartment so I can study.
He is very interesting and challenging. Is that what you are looking for?
No, they come every hour on the hour.
that's right. I am not the only one who has done this. Job hopping is quite common in the IT industry.
And you'd take some exercise every day.
I think you can go to visit the museum. It's worth seeing. You can go to the square some other time.
I need help. I think my arm is broken.
Are there any side effects with this medication?
I see. It is the position desired
I have to be there before 17 o'clock.
Oh, I am so sorry!
Let me think about it.
I am.What can I do for you?
I'm absolutely certain.
It’s sent to Mr. Charles. I believe he is in London.
Hi, Kathy! I'm just doing my morning yoga! You're up awfully early today.
Well, to be honest, nothing is more stressful than going on a business trip with our boss.
No. Really, what happened?
No, but I can learn. What are you going to do this summer?
Just as you advertised in the newspaper.
Did I hear about it? I saw it happen.
Maybe I can help.
That's nice. How old are you?
You need to keep it at $ 100.
I was turned down again. It’s frustrating. I guess you ’ Ve got to teach me some skills.
Can you work every day from 9 to 5?
about ten days ago. I ’ Ve tried to use it since then. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn ’ t. It’s very frustrating.
Well, I can't hear you.
We will need to do an investigation on this.
Other company rules also need your attention.
I've no idea. I'd like to listen to your suggestion.
Yes. There have been a few there recently. They say that this one was not a big quake. The Iranians are dealing with it on their own. They have purchased some special equipment to find people buried under rubble.
I agree. We will leave $ 3.60 for the tip.
No, I enjoy travelling.
Thank you for saying. I think you are light on your toes too. Oh, the music starts again, would you like to have another dance, miss?
You see, nowadays, a lot of companies are concerned about their group account management. As long as your company meets all the requirements of our Group Account Deposit Service, I would fully recommend it.
not really. When I was little, we didn't really listen to music at all.
Can I use my green pad again to write you admiring notes?
You silver-tongued devil. Can't you ever just answer a question with a simple yes or no?
You're supposed to always have a hearty breakfast.
Then I ’ ll just use my credit card.
That's too bad, But don't worry.We ' ll put off dinner till one o'clock.
Yes. Will you let me?
oh well. You never really liked your boss anyway, did you?
Yes.And you're Mr.Jones, I remember.
Yes there are.How do you want to go, First class or coach?
What do you want to do tonight?
Have you seen our new packing specifications?
Not at all. The woman, who owned it, took good care of it. But when she died, she had no family left and no will, so the government had to sell it for her.
Single or return, sir?
We have no pool, sir, but we do have swim stations in our gym.
I went to Macy's and picked it out.
I hope so. But I'm always caught short.
Did you ever buy food from the snack stands near our hotel?
I'm going to buy a CD.
You can cash them here, how much do you want to cash?
Then, have you looked downstairs?
Yes, in some ways it was a step down from my previous job but it did offer me much better prospects for the future.
It's almost 6:00. I'd better be going.
Yes, please ask her to call John Smith.
you did? I thought you must feel right at home here as we get as many fast food restaurants as you do in America.
No, but now he'll be in trouble. What's a boyfriend for? To forget about Valentine's Day?
That's hilarious! What did he say?
That sounds good! Could you call them to see if I can get a reservation?
Wow! That ’ s fast! I don ’ t think we will be traveling that fast on the motorway.
Where were you?
Whoa! We're changing partners now? Where do I go?
That ’ s not good for me at all. It'll have to be another time.
this movie are always delightful.
That'll be ¥ 150.
Yeah, me, too. It's about time I made a move.
Yes, here is a catalog that is put out every year with locations that meet campus requirements for As.
Yes.You can use the computer to seta tima.Dial 10 and then time.For example.if you want to get up at 7:15, you can dial 100715.
No. I'm tired and I've got to work tomorrow.
Could you drop us off on that corner?
No. It is free of charge.
I wouldn't do it if I were you.
I don't find it very exciting.
I'm sorry I'm so late. I had a really bad day.
Let's go to see a war movie, shall we?
Maybe it is for the best. They are not suitable for each other because they have nothing in common and are completely different people.
Then I'll put it on my Master Card. Here you are.
We eat a lot of chicken, pork and beef.You eat those meat a lot in your country too, don ’ t you?
you're right! How are you? It's been a long time!
I'd like to open a one-year time deposit account and a checking account.
Thank you, would you hang up and wait?
What other sources of energy do you use?
My aunts and uncles are all teachers.
Sir, our room prices are slightly higher than you may have thought. Will that be okay?
I will take it. How much?
Is there a warranty?
It’s basically about a father who tried to marry off one of his five girls.
You can check on the bulletin boards at school for local housing.
Well, it's here now. Shall we credit that straight to your account?
Ok.Let ' s make is next Monday. I n the end, you need to fill out the application form.
Right.What are you doing over there?
well, I'll come up with a detailed business plan to attract the investors.
Okay, I'll take these two magazines and a copy of Today's Post.
Well, I know you work for someone else, but as your client, please, we have to get this straight between us. I'm your client, not your company.As your client, I expect you to be square with me at all times. Can you do that?
Yes, on the cancer ward. And Taylor was there. He walked right by me and didn't even see me.
Hello, Miao Li, Where are you going?
thanks. I'll read through it tonight and get back to you tomorrow to sign up for a course.
Sorry, sir, it's my job to make sure the goods are paid.
My God! You really bought a lot. Why do you need so much?
What is your impression of your present company?
This Olympic park is so big!
I find the Chinese dishes wonderful.
I got major FOMO from missing that writers.
I'd like to send this parcel, please.
We'll talk about it next time. Now that everything is settled, let's have a cup of tea, and take our minds off business for a change.
is it available in the rooms?
I can't. I'm waiting for Paul, but he's late.
May I have your attention please?
It’s a felony charge.
I cannot dance, you know. I have't such a talent.
What are the benefits of e-commerce?
I've been going to the gym these days. The exercise makes me hungry all the time.
Yeah, It’s me. Can you give me a lift after work?
If only he knew it.
You could always get a burger, and I can get a pizza.
I've been great. What about you?
Excuse me, could I ask a favour?
About how much were you planning to spend?
I just got done voting.
How old were you?
how come you're still up? Shouldn't you be asleep by now?
Well, these things happens, I know that. You just have to stay straight with me.
Oh, my goodness. The traffic is crawling.
Extremely good. I shot a 78, including 5 birdies!
Hi, I need to transfer some money to another account. It’s urgent.
I don't get it. We have more than 100 channels and there's still nothing good on! Maybe we should just turn off the TV, get outside, and do something real.
Even in the winter?
In the same way, probably.
How much does a mango cost?
Look on the rack to the right.
Most of my other neighbours are scared of them.
This the game thing is so sus.
I have a class around there right now.
OK, got it, but its shape is so strange. I don't like it.
Yeah. A lot of my customers love it. ( after shampooing ) Do you want a permanent wave or a cold wave?
do you need a furnished or unfurnished apartment?
I know why we have reservations.
Excuse me, may I have the bill, please?
I like it black.
What are the dates, sir?
Well, that's okay.
Pretty good. The HR manager asked me the usual questions. Then he wondered why I had decided to leave my previous job.
Oh, so am I.
Los Angeles is in California. It's southeast of San Francisco.
Do you have any seat preference, madam?
I'm sorry for running it, but I really didn't know.
I have excellent communication skills and I am familiar with the procedures for the last company I worked for. Besides, I am a team player and have great interpersonal skills.
hi, Lander. What's wrong?
Sure. Why don ’ t you try it on? The fitting room is over there.
I'm in between jobs at the moment.
What were the odds?
No, I need directions, please.
Yes, I guess I should try to use it.
We are open until 10 but our last order for dinner is at 9:30 pm.
Would you show me some table-cloths?
Good morning, Jason. How did you sleep?
Hi, Daniel, how are you holding up? I am greatly sorry for your loss.
What test do you do for high blood pressure?
What's your favorite season?
How much altogether?
Are you getting overtime?
If they all unite on a certain issue, it's the stockholders who have the final say. You'd think it might be our CEO or the workers, but in fact, the stockholders control the money so they have the most power.
Thank you. Please fill out the Baggage Declaration Form.
Next please! Hello sir, may I see your passport please?
Is This where I pay the airport tax?
It doesn't matter. It happens to everyone.
I have had some really horrible headaches lately.
No, it's great being a father, seeing your children growing up and loving you and admiring you.
Oh, hi, Leo. Sure, what ’ s up?
Oh, hey, did you look in the classified ads?
OK. Have you seen the samples?
You're mistaken about it. As a matter of fact, it's very hard.
What's the cause?
Oh, without a doubt. When is the next class?
I'm Mary Smith.Nice to meet you, too.
Are you taking anything?
"These drawers contain cards describing every book in our library. Together they constitute the library's "" card catalog "". You can see that each drawer runs from one part of the alphabet to another. Fox example, this drawer goes from SCA to SCM."
Okay. I ’ ll call you right back.
It is two-year and covers parts and service.
Yes. Hi, what's up?
Well. You ’ Ve come prepared.You have all the necessary materials so we can go ahead and make the transfer right now. It’s a simple transaction, and we can process it today.
Mr.Black, if I'm not mistaken.
Well, we've just finished laying the cabling and we're waiting for the safety inspector to give us the go-ahead to continue. I'm just going to meet him. Do you want to come?
What are bar vouchers?
I don't think much of the film.
No, it's not.
Which one of these is the gas pedal?
Really? Let me have a look at it. Mm. OK. Let me change it for another one.
To be honest, I really wasn't.
Would you like me to show you our new cleaning unit? It's a clever design.
Good idea. That might help.
Catch it, Yi-jun! Run to the ball! Uh-oh! Slow down, you're going to hit...
I don't see them.
I... I... I miss my parents, also they miss me.
It’s so great to be here! I ’ m so excited to help you and my daughter with your new home!
well, okay. Then there is still Michael. But he's pet after having the best sales record for three months in a row. It definitely won't be Michael.
I am sorry to hear that.Would you mind coming with me to my office and tell me what exactly happened there?
Yeah, it'll take us there.
Well, I hope the client feels the same way!
No, thanks. I'm full.
I'm going to London on business next week. But I know nothing about it.
Sure, thanks. I brought you a bottle of wine as well.
I feel that way, too. But all good things must come to an end, as they say.
Yes, anything wrong?
I was a naughty boy and I played hooky. So the school gave me a punishment to clear the classroom for a week.
Yes, we do. we also eat mutton.
do you want to go out for dinner tonight?
That ’ s for sure. You ’ ll know our products better after the visit.
It seems this is the only proposal for me to accept. I ’ ll come again tomorrow to discuss it in detail.
No, not at all. I was just calling to tell you that everything has been checked and double checked, and there is no problem with the documents you brought in this morning.
Salt or no salt?
That sounds pretty good. Tell me, must we use the same payment method for all of our employees?
Baby, I love you so much.
Okay, that's good. I get it.
The owner apparently is selling this place to make way for the construction of a parking lot.
My wife and I didn't used to spend this much money.
No, what's the difference?
A double room without a view for just one night?
Can you drive?
Really? Thank you. I bought it in Spring Street yesterday.
And I can experience another kind of life style.
Good night. See you tomorrow.
Well, I don't think it matches my jeans.Can you give me some advice?
You guessed right. Besides, the color violet is a little girly for me.
Calm down, sir. We ’ ll call her to make sure she ’ s on the way.
Lily, if you're acting sick just because you want to play hooky...
Ok, well enjoy the rest of your stay here.
Why not sometime next week?
Is the service charge included?
I want to go camping, you know, just get a way for the weekend. I'm not sure I'll be able to, though.
Never! But thank you for inviting me.
Hello! How are you.
OK, boy. I will buy it for you.
Could you show me your ID, Please?
Okay. I'll just be a minute.
With milk but without sugar, please.
Wow! Your fruit looks really fresh! How much are these apples?
What about this one?
Right. I'd like to deposit 2,000 RIB into my Current Account.
Again? The area around the park is too dark at night. There should be more lights there.
Your food will be brought to you momentarily. I hope you enjoy it.
All right, ma'am, they'll be ready for you in an hour.
I am very familiar with Windows operating system.
Of course I know. But there is too high a rate. Frankly speaking, the maximum discount we can make is 6 %.
What specific places do you wish to visit?
That's all I have to do?
Hi, I am just looking.
Thanks a lot. By the way, please call a taxi for me.
Did you want to know my favorite kind of pie?
I ’ m down in spirits.
Shall we go out tonight?
We have absolute proof that you committed the crime.
I think working in this company could give me the best chance to use what I have learnt. As you know, I majored in computer programming in the university. I've cherished a desire to get a job where I can apply my knowledge. I know your company is one of the largest computer companies in the world, and I wish to have opportunity to develop my capabilities here. That ’ s why I applied.
Yes. Can I deposit valuables here?
Welcome to McDonald's. Can I take your order?
Oh. I am sorry. I was busy looking for some whisky.Can you tell me the exactly place where I can find any?
To get started, take that list over to the bookstore. Do you know where the bookstore is?
Well, that's easy. Walk up to him and kiss him.
Certainly. Let's put the suitcase in the boot.
A kitten being run over by a truck.
Oh, what a beautiful garden!
Didn't I tell you? We're moving to Florida?
Yeah, I go a lot too. I saw a bear and a mountain lion on my last hike.
Japanese art? Mm, Ikebana! Tea Ceremony!
How many passengers are there aboard the ship?
Yes, I speak a little French and Japanese.
What? I thought you liked Patricia.
You have the right to an attorney.
Of course there is. Things can be divided and broken down into indefinitely small parts if we can.
But you will miss your good chance. I ’ m So sorry
The next game, I will definitely be there.
Their flesh is soft and juicy. It has a citrus taste. It's sweet.
I don't know! Can I park my car now?
Yes, but I'm even more excited about getting my thoughts published again!
Look! Who is that guy on the stage?
I am Tim Green in Room 1021 and I want a wake-up call at five thirty AM tomorrow.
Sorry, there is no flight available on July 21st.
Whatever we said, we must be more careful.
I am waiting for a fax but just now I found there's something wrong with the fax machine.
Oh, forget it then. Hey, I told you to put the files on the in tray, not on my desk.
OK, no problem. I hope there are no questions about the terms.
No, sir. Would you rather sit near the dance floor?
What attracts you most?
Oh, yes. Laura ’ s the oldest. She ’ s a computer programmer.
Well. You can trust me this time. My sister is definitely sick. I'm just coming from the hospital. They say she might even die.
What size prints would you like?
not very well. I haven ’ t found anything within my price range yet.
Sorry about that.
Do you know that the dolphin is the most intelligent animal in the world?
She wears her heart on her sleeve.
There ’ s a possibility.
Is it cold or warm in autumn?
Two years is fine, with a value of 1,000 RIB.
This job pays for half of your medical, dental, and disability.
The wall colors totally suit the style of this house.
Mary, how was your date with John?
And the forks and spoons?
But you don't live at home anymore.
And how many bags do you have?
Abby Park Hotel. Can I help you?
( beep ) This is Miriam Lavalle – that's spelt L, A, V, A, L, L, E. It's about an appointment I made with Simon Meredith. I'm afraid I'm going to have to change it. Can you call me? The number is 01563 566 770. Thank you.
OK, that's right.
Well in the meantime you are a biohazard! I didn ’ t get it when I was a kid and I ’ Ve heard that you can even die if you get it as an adult!
That's fine! How would you like this cash back?
So how did I do?
I wonder if there was an accident.
Do I have to travel a lot?
Don't get up so late next time. You should have gone to bed earlier last night.
I'm the coolest high-tech stud around...
Yes, we have.
Good. I'll come back tomorrow, and we can then discuss it more specifically.
What ’ s the next question.
"That happens often these days.Well, please fill in this "" Report of Theft ""."
do you need a hand?
The sea seems quite calm, so there will be no fear of seasickness. Are you seasick?
We are tired of jobs and competition. We need a quiet place.
So, for now, you want me to keep a copy of the contract.But we won't sign it yet. That right?
What about April? April has good weather that isn't too cold or too hot.
Am I doing this the right way?
There's a car dealer down the road. How about going there?
Wangfujing Grand Hotels. How can I help you?
Take care and give my best to you parents.
So, now I will buy you. Are you sure?
In the past half year, we made some schedules and objectives, do you still remember that?
What is my schedule for today, Miss Liu?
That's because you're talking to me all the time. Be patient, or there will be no chance to have sashimi for dinner today.
Well, I see.
That's great!
We'd be very glad to do so. Have you seen the exhibits displayed in the hall?
Oh, thank you so much.
Yes, please let him know I would like to discuss the Girard case with him.
Alright, tell me about the ties you have to your home country.
What about the senior account managers? Do they count?
Like what, for instance?
Yes, but this one will have to be re-faxed as well. And look, there's about three pages missing! It looks loke the fax machine ate half my important faxes, and the ones that made it through are so blurred or too light, they're unreadable!
I like the Brazilians. They are the real champions.
Have you ever had garlic ice cream?
Yes, we would like to take a tour to L. A.
What do your classmates think of it?
No, It’s beef.
That would be fun.
Don ’ t sweat it. We will land safely.
ok, I promise. So what's troubling you so much?
Where does a broadcast company get most of their information? I hope it's not just from press releases.
Don't worry. These dates are only targets.
Could you please tell me how many credits would be required for a bachelor's degree?
"And the second stage is called a "" tornado warning ""."
Why weren't you at school yesterday?
Glad to meet you again, Mrs Hao. You are so kind.
I have never done this before and don ’ t know where to begin as far as making an offer on this house.
We are on the 5th floor, and there's a very nice view from the balcony.
Well, I just want to enjoy what I ’ m doing It’s the most important thing to me.
Let me check... His flight ’ s at 2:30 p. m., so he should leave no later than 12 noon.
Yes, fine. I had something wrong with my stomach. I won ’ t go into detail, but it wasn ’ t serious.
I'd like to introduce myself first.
Frankly yes. We like to employ married people. By the way, do you have any children?
The days are getting longer!
It's on the west side of the campus.
I'm glad we came here. This is really delicious!
Um. That doesn ’ t really matter. Because we have more French visitors than German.
Great! As you know, however, the day in New York has hardly begun.
Take care of yourself and don't forget to keep in touch.
Is that Phoenix time?
The machine is over there.
Alright, I know just what to do.Your hair seems quite dry, you know. And I see some split ends.
I prefer to sit next to a window.
I wonder if you can help me. I ’ m looking for a room.
What time does the 7:59 train get to London?
Thank you, sir. Hope to see you again soon.
It's raining.
Yes, it helps everyone to understand what we're doing from different perspectives.
Well then, how is your family?
A double room, please.
I know. I will pay attention to such a thing next time.
Good morning. I ’ m here to see Rochelle Davis, the Human Resources Manager.
I would like to deposit some money.
How did you like your job?
Thank you, Ma'am.
Perhaps you'd be interested in red roses.
Yes, she just got here yesterday.
Hello. What time do you close, please?
That ’ s so unfair!
It will make you as fit as a fiddle.
Nothing but the best, Cinnamon toast.
How many cleaning ladies does your company hire?
Yes, I've paid all of them off.
I want to look at nelson Mandela ’ s autobiography.
Yeah! I signed up for a website called match @. com and it is great! You fill in all your details and preferences, like if you are a smoker or if you have any pets. Then you find people that have similar characteristics and you can email them or chat.
Don't mistake her as somebody. She ' s my older sister.
Thank you for being a friend of mine.
Oh, hi, Mary, come on in. Any problem?
Absolutely. Who were you playing with?
No. Could you tell me something more about it? I want to play well.
Yes, we do. Here is your bill and receipt.
Of course. Everything's so striking and fascinating.
I'll ask waitress to show you the way.
He ’ s fine, but he had a fever last week. He probably just had a cold.
Well, I'll take them.
That's really convenient. Does it have the Bluetooth?
Time to order. Balista, today I want a skinny triple latte.
Actually, can I change the latter wake-up call to 7 thirty. am?
What ’ s on?
Yeah. I think things are worked out just fine.
You have your library card, right?
I would suggest roast beef, sir.
Well, as you know I was in Thailand last month, and I took a cooking class! So I prepared some of my favorite dishes.
Okay, let's call it a day.
Yes, we'd have your regular dinner. What courses are there, please?
Tingling is on TV.
Before he made the top three, I was so nervous. I just fear that he might be knocked out.
What about cigarettes or cigars?
I never bought food from the cafeteria.
This girl I've been chatting with for the past couple of months. She's really cool and she's driving over here this weekend.
Isn't there anyone in the office that is a perfect co-worker? What about Bob? Everybody loves Bob.Even though he's flesh out of college and still a bit green, he is a great co-worker.
They said he was an honest and professional businessman. But that's the exciting part. It's kind of like gambling...
I'm sorry, but our university computer center only sells Macintosh equipment.
That's right, it really would be.
The kitchen god? What does he do?
Sure. Here you are. This one is excellent. Just mix one drop of it with milk.
That's fine. You will not miss it because it's just next to the Kensington centra Library.
oh, it's love at first sight. When will you see each other again?
My chicken tastes all right, but it is pretty dry. How is your fish?
How do you spell your family name?
That'll bring the price down to twenty-five. That's the price we were shooting for.
Could I have look at that pair of canvas shoes? They look nice.
That ’ s not all! I also had to finish writing a sales report for my boss. In the end, I finished everything. I wonder what will be waiting for me tomorrow morning.
it was over food. I simply wanted some fried chicken but she said no.
Ok, on that day, boys usually give roses to the sweet hearts and girls give them chocolate in return.
Is this dress made of pure silk?
whatever you say. I just want to get to my meeting!
A bar of soap!
How much does this house cost?
I've considered that. I'll share an apartment with others to save the rent, and the cost of living won't be too much for only one person.
Is it furnished?
That ’ s reasonable.
No. He has no idea what a fat little pig I was!
Right, so we must spare some time to attend selective courses.
I'm still just surprised you really want to do it.It doesn't seem to go with your character.
Have you considered the possibility of a buyer's credit?
I really don ’ t understand my parents. They always make light of my worries.
Easier said than done.
I love them all. But if I had to name one as the best, I would say it's the ending.
Welcome and nice to meet you. I heard you were coming today. Is today your first day here in the company?
What a nice theatre! I guess it can seat hundreds of people.
I'd be happy to write one for you.
did you watch the Oscars on Sunday night?
Yes, I think so. There is also an interesting one.It ' s opposite the park.
Have a seat please while I call.
At first, I thought it was me.
No, but if you can think of anything else, just get it.
Yes, you too. Thanks for agreeing to meet with us about the new account. My associate, Susan Kim, should be here any minute. Would you like something to drink while we're waiting?
Sure! How about the coffee shop right across the street from my office?
Have a nice day.
Well, let ’ s put on some music. We ’ re going to be stuck in this for a while.
Are you usually busy?
That's no problem. What exactly would you like to know?
Oh, I can't believe it.He looks very young.
It looks really artistic! How did you learn to do that?
You ’ re right, I don ’ t want to pay, but I don ’ t want to live without pay, either.
I'm going to buy a newspaper and check the classified ads.
Correct. Show respect for the older people. Conventionally, before the meal starts, the younger members are supposed to address each one of the elderly members of the table one by one. Others are kept in waiting until the most venerable guest proclaim the beginning of the meal and takes the first bite. Toasts also go to these men first before people can toast to each other.
Any question about the work?
Did you watch the final last night? My favorite singer won!
Excuse me. Would you mind trading seats with me?
We haven't decided yet. There are a lot of things to sort out, you know.
Which color do you like?
She said that she didn ’ t want to foul her own nest.
Oh, sorry to have bothered you.
Do you need to buy a duplicate permit for a second vehicle?
Are you making what I think you're making?
What ‘ s the minimum amount I can deposit in an account?
When does the first period begin, by the way?
But where do I get a ticket?
What are you doing, awake?
Oh, you are out of breath! What ’ s happened?
He's dancing with Jack!
I will.Bye - bye!
I've been here for 3 years, and I haven't had a raise in all that time.If you like my work, it should be reflected in my pay, and I feel it isn't.
OK, in this way it's just below the limit.
Have you updated your CV?
Then what do you deal with?
Can I get off the ship and walk around?
It’s quite convenient.
Yes, that's quite all right for me.
How may I help you, miss?
We don ’ t allow people to check out magazines.
This morning, when we woke up, there was water pouring in from the ceiling!
Hello, this is the admissions office. Can I help you?
Oh... I don't let her ride with me. It's just too dangerous. She takes the bus to work, but it is sometimes difficult to get a seat and it's crowded and hot.
I have to work.
I think it's just a crush. You can't be serious.
I wonder what he looks like. Oh, I can't wait to see him! His email said he'd be wearing a white hat.oh, there he is.
Not bad. What kind of film did it produce from the ready to mid 1930 ' s
You have always got your nose in the air, which hurts many boys ’ hearts.
Yesterday. He suffered from a serious disease. When he saw the red light, it was too late.
What are some other places where I might look for work?
For what purpose exactly, if you don't mind me asking? I must ask because I need to know the size, you see.
Hello, this is John. I wanna speak to Linda, please.
Really? That's great that you found a school that puts your need first.
Yes, you're right. Maybe there's any other reason.
You don't have to go right away.
Young people enjoy pop songs more.
I am afraid this is the biggest size we have.
Are you being served, Sir?
Oh! It's so cute!
Well, it's not going to be in our department. I've recommended you for an interdepartmental transfer. There's supervisory spot opening up in financial. I'm turning your name in for it.
I am doing OK, Joe.
Short and sweet? But what if I have to explain something complicated?
I thought that I already told you that I am going with Mark to Alaska.
How? By drinking?
Yes, that's right.
It's none of your business. Let me try them on.
Did you generate any income during that time period?
Would you care for a drink?
Yes, I know how to get there on my own.
I heard that you went to the concert the day before? How did you like it?
I feel so uncomfortable.
It might take a long time. Because there is a line, you know.
It's free, but the monthly sticker is $ 24.
Look, I've already paid for the tickets, so whether you like it or not we're going to finish watching it.
Exercised over and over. Exercise is a key.
You have worked very hard in the office. If we can get someone to help you, you can have more rest.
Yes. After two U. S. fighter jets followed him for an hour, he landed on a highway.
So what? It is not fresh and I'm not happy about it.
It's awfully quiet around here.
I tried before. There are no buttons on the air conditioning.
No. I'm still working on it.
Hello. Smith ’ s Resident.
Leave the details of making the offer up to me. What were you thinking you should offer?
no, but I'm pretty good at eating!
Well, you will get there in about a quarter of an hour if the traffic isn ’ t too heavy.
Let me see. A roasted duck is $ 25. A plate of pork is $ 6.50. A bowl of beef is $ 7. Two bottles of beer are $ 4. That's a total of $ 42.50.
How about going to the cinema tonight?
Yes, of course. It was nice to see you.
No, it's free.
How would we manage it though? How would we spend the 90 minutes?
I'm Mr. Stephen's secretary. He has an appointment with Mr. Green today.
It also means that people sometimes fight over the famp 3land that remains. Damaging the environment actually leads to conflict between people.
Did the cops get him?
Certainly, I can help you with that. Will that be the downtown or waterfront location?
yeah, it's a must. Otherwise, I may miss important phone calls and text messages.
What does it say?
Isn't there any coach to teach you how to ski?
Ok, I ’ Ve got an up-to-day map. Let ’ s check the route from here to the airport.
My younger brother. He suffers from a bad cold.
What's the soup of the day?
I feel so sorry that Nova has gone on her business trip.
Thanks. I feel like celebrating. Let's go have a beer. It's on me.
Really it depends on my mood. When I am sad or depressed, I like comedies. If I'm feeling good, I'll watch almost anything.
I need to buy some pork for the party. Give me about one kilogram.
But it's the truth.
Really? I heard in America you can return rental cars in different cities.
No wonder it looks so huge.
Oh, thank you, Mary. You're so nice.
What do you like to do with your free time?
Perfect. Thank you, goodbye!
Yes, because I love yours.
Do you have it in a larger size?
OK, I'll take a message.
I'll see you tomorrow then.
I saw a pair of earrings outside your window. Can you show them to me?
Ah, good morning, Mr. Smith. Nice to meet you. I'm Peter Anderson from Personnel. Do sit down.
Then the difference between the asking price and the offering price is $ 2. It's hard to take place today.
Good luck on your first election.
Yeah, the smog from all these cars gets into the air and turns the sunlight red.
Yes. And Chinese style.
Have you gotten your learner's permit?
Well, do you have through tickets?
You can count on me.
That will solve it then. Let's work hard to not let it happen again.
I bet you'll still buy it, though. You wouldn't be able to live without your fashion magazine!
That ’ s too much.
You must show that you were available and that you looked for work.
I would like to make a reservation for tomorrow.
Yes, let's go into the dance-hall and ask if we can take dancing-lessons.
What are you using for bait today?
No way, Kate. I mean it's just not my fault.
She kept bothering me.
That ’ s all right for my department. I don ’ t know how the rest of you feel.
Me too.Recently, I'm fascinated with net-chat. I've made many friends on the net.Every day I talk to them and share many interesting things with them. I really enjoy it.
Thanks. And this word? How do you pronounce this?
Who is on duty?
I was invited to attend their wedding.
Yeah, I hate sitting in the front row.
Well, do you want burgers, Chinese food, or Mexican food?
Hi, Jimmy, good morning.
Which school is your children in?
Ah, I can do it perfectly.
Ok, I will go into more detail. A Program Adviser or an Academic Counselor is usually an experienced professor who is responsible for all the necessary academic counseling through graduation. You can discuss with him the program selection, changing or adding a program, the requirements for graduation, and other problems related to your study. You will choose some courses, and then discuss with the adviser whether your choice can meet the requirements for graduation.
So romantic.young people must have lot of fun.
How about Bill's Seafood Restaurant?
Let ’ s see. He has a roman nose, bushy eyebrows and dimples!
OK, but don't believe everything you see on The X-files, either!
Well, you can have fries-French fries-or simple boiled potatoes.
to be honest, I didn't really like Shaun of the Dead. Besides, I like movies with a happy ending best.
If we want to get this internet business off the ground, we've got to do something fast.
No. The best thing to do is just stay home.
Are you interested in swimming?
I don't know, but he gives me the creeps.
Hey, listen. I had every right to stay in the lane I was in.You were supposed to wait until I passed to pull out.And anyhow, you didn't give me any time to change lanes.All of a sudden--BANG--there you are right in front of me.
What? No, I heard that he has stomach cancer. His ex-girlfriend said it.
How many can we choose?
sometimes it is. But after working for a few weeks, It’s easy to figure out.
thank you for help.good bye.
Do you ride this bus often?
Wow. That is a very big family. Do you all live together?
No, I ’ m not sure. I think about 65 mph, right?
Let's play other game.
just breathe deeply when you feel yourself getting upset.
I'll just take it out to the street tomorrow morning.
I usually have cereal, but sometimes I cook a traditional English breakfast.
Can I apply for a permit today?
Oh, really? But you're doing the tango wonderfully well.
Does this suit come in other color?
Oh, not bad. Then do you know her mother?
She will be back soon.You can wait and see.
I think I might have a dahl.
there's a reality TV show about a group of people who are trying to lose weight.
No, thanks. I've had enough.Now, Mary, before you blow out the birthday candles, you have to make a wish.After that, you may cut the cake.
This is a good opportunity.
Marketing manage office, can I help you?
All right. If you really want to.
I'm absolutely sure I'm right.
So, if I do decide to go ahead, how can my company open a Corporate Agreement Savings Plan with you?
Would you please tell me about fringe benefits of the company?
Not so bad, but Kevin does have problems with his wife.
Which kind of sport do you like to watch?
You want to buy one now?
Yes. You'll get a picture of Serena playing with the racket and a document from her.
What does she do for work?
I hear Fred is a very good student in your class.
Wow. That sounds like a bargain. I'm running low on facial moisturizer and powder. Could you ring those up for me along with the lipstick?
do you have a medium in the same color? This one is a little tight.
OK, you can stop now.It ' s time for the dance class.
not only our annual sales brake a record, but our month by month earnings exceeded our forecast as well. After a two-year slump, we finally back in the black.
Thanks, Hugh. I owe you one.
Hello everyone! I ’ m Rick Fields, and here with me is Bob Copeland.
I was hoping you'd have something on sale today.
But what about tomorrow? What if Stars.com decides to go with WebTracker, and not us?
To be blunt, maybe I won't be able to get along with his new wife or her kids.
Management decided to give him four brand new white shirts. That's their way of telling him that his new style of dressing down is not quite acceptable.
You smashed my bumper in with your car.
Yes, I did. I enjoyed it a lot.There was a folk singer, a violinist and a pianist.
You're no able to move after this class.
Don't worry, James. We'll get this case worked out in no time.
I'm positive that we missed our stop.
No problem, I'll just get the form for you.
May I take a look inside?
Maybe It’s just a rash or an allergy! We can ’ t be sure until I see a doctor.
OK, here you are. The fitting room is behind the curtain.
I haven't met the Smiths for a long time.
I was so angry that I could not keep cool. What I need is just an apology.
Is this a promise?
I prefer the indoor sports, such as bowling, badminton and squash.
Welcome. How can we be of service today?
Does it bother you when you have to chew a lot?
Till I moved out of my parents ’ home, I became a lot more independent.
You've made a good decision. How would you like to pay?
Let's do both! Are we in a rush or anything
Fine, thank you.
Wow, that would be something to look forward to.
Yeah, you are right I used to not watch horror films, but after seeing Silence of the Lamb with Mike last month, I fell in love with them.
What? We are merging with Trusten? I never thought that would happen.Will we be getting new owners? Will it affect our jobs?
You need to know the type of shoes you want.
I said, is Mr. Thomas there?
What mark is it?
how about rock and roll 。
Go and do it now.
How nice. I hope the weather will stay like this for the whole week. I'm going on the canoe trip this weekend.
Thank you. Here is the ticket and receipt. Have a good time.
Oh, I see. You like Chinese style, don ’ t you?
It's getting late.
Yes, it does. Does he go to school by bus?
I am going to refer you to a pulmonary specialist who can run tests on you for asthma.
Just a moment. I'll tell you about that in a minute. Where was I? Oh yes. By way of illustration, let ’ s look at the top five destinations in the UK for this kind of traveler over the last five years. If you look at page ten you can see what I mean. In spite of these characteristics of the market, I still think there is room for growth in the youth sector.
so, which sport do you prefer---basketball or baseball?
When would you like me to send those plans over to your office, Mr. Montgomery?
I said, ' Do you need any help? '
I have faith in him.
I enjoyed it, even though I had not asked for it.
Me too, they're such a nice couple.
Then I'II make reservations for 9 pm for a party of four.
who are you writing a letter to?
Why don ’ t you try then? Even if it doesn ’ t help you find an American girl, you could still have a stronger and healthier body. You won ’ t lose anything by doing that.
I finally went out to dinner with him last night.
Nothing is to your satisfaction.
I'm afraid not, but can you make it Thursday afternoon?
Hello, Parker. How ’ s everything?
My doctor says I should cut back on sodium-rich foods to lower my blood pressure.
Good point. Ok, let's go to the estate agent and see what they can offer us.
Room service, can I help you?
Those are today ’ s top stories. Now let ’ s go to John for the weather. John, what does the forecast look like for our weekend travelers?
Susan, we ’ re going to need those data before tomorrow.
Actually, it is a 30 - day notice to vacate the premises.
This is him speaking.
I know I ’ m going to bite the dust going down this hill. I almost got killed on the chair lift! This is going to be so embarrassing.
I want an order of that. By the way, I want it hot. I like chili.
Sounds like you are really getting in shape!
I can't figure out which dress to wear.
Oh, yeah. We will have winter holiday.
That's the point.
sounds very interesting. I can't wait to go there.
no, I'm not feeling myself. I just want to check my emails, visit my favorite websites and chat with my friends.
I want to hit a few more places in the city, but I need a place to put my luggage.
We'll take the route No. 10.
That'll be in a ten minutes. Please sit over there, and I'll call you over as sooner as it's ready.
Of course, Sir. If I could have your details again and your ID, I'll check them and we can go on.
Can I borrow this magazine from you? It's really interesting and I can't put it down.
Holly? Holly Madison, is that you? You look great! You haven't changed a bit.
And how will you be paying for your room, Ms White?
I like this style, but I don't like its color. Do you have this coat in yellow?
OK. I know.
Great. That's my favorite seat which will be the nearest to the birthday cake.
It sure is.He has no one to turn to, very miserable indeed.
yes. He ’ s in hospital with a bad back. One morning, he just couldn ’ t get out of bed.His wife called an ambulance and they took him to hospital. He ’ s been there for a few days now.
This is room eleven-seven and we have just checked in.
This is designed to exclude them from domestic market, isn't it?
Would Chablis be all right?
No problem, I once played a 2 - meter-high player successfully.
Who's that striking woman over there?
Oh sure, lady, and fat chance I'd get a ticket before they're sold out. I'm staying right here, understand? So be a nice lady and butt out!
After the financial crisis, many industries are in incredibly cloudy situations. How do you think about our company?
Hey, that ’ s not the girl with pink hair, is it? The girl I saw with Jack yesterday.
Check your answers against the ones on the answer sheet and let me know where you see the mistake.
I think that we should check out the kitchen. It is listed as roomy and spacious.
Well, I ’ d just like you to help me with the holiday schedule.
Sir, you can come downstairs right now to the computer lab.
I work for American Airlines.
Good idea. Oh, by the way, would you please pick me up after the party, honey?
Tom got along well with classmates. He is really a good boy.
Fine, I'd like two enlargements from this negative.
No problem. Wish you a nice trip.
I work hard so I deserve to enjoy, but that costs money.
Why? You're not working so don't you have a lot of time on your hands?
Can I do anything else for you?
you do know that it's absolutely freezing out, don't you? I'd put a coat on if I were you.
The Mountains would be a great place for the company retreat.
We hope that you are feeling better soon. E-mail me if you have any questions.
Doctor Ruth's office, may I help you?
A single room from June 18th to 20th. Is that correct?
I have accumulated a wealth of practical experience in work as a chief advertisement designer. Moreover, I realized teamwork is the key to success.
What kind of food will they be serving?
So hard to choose. I think I'll take this one.
No, I'll e paying for myself, but I have private medical insurance.
I will take the tapestry, the set of table wear and the vase.
I need help with my timesheet.
What about your step-brother ’ s mother? Does he keep in touch with her?
You have stayed for 6 day.Here is your bill.
I came here to ask for some information.
I didn't take my cellphone with me at that time.
No. Please don ’ t. I couldn ’ t let you do that.
Could you please get him on the phone?
Hello! I'm Penny, I moved here just now.
Uh, are you sure about that? I thought espresso was an Italian word.
It usually doesn ’ t take very long for owners to respond to an offer.
I need to get on another bus, but I have no more money.
Why not send them short messages?
I'm not going anywhere until later, so I'll clean it then.
Do you have any questions we didn't cover in the interview?
I've always admired athletes.
Oh, no, the guy was a musician who just sang. He played the guitar and sang so many cool pop songs. Many people were drawn to his music and there was no hat on the floor. He sang for appreciation, but not for money.
OK, here we go.
Yes, we accept it now, after it has been suspended for many years. However, if you want to have it covered for your imports at your end, you may arrange the insurance as you like.
Janice, David, come here. We take some photos here. I can't imagine how beautiful it is!
Have you ever got the goods on her for wrong doings?
Shall I make out a single bill or two separate bills?
Is there anything uncomfortable in your room?
Wow, you have a lot of questions! I learned a lot. In fact, that ’ s why I am taking it again. I get lots of practice in speaking, and also in writing. I ’ m sure you ’ ll be glad you took this course. I ’ ll even help you study if you ’ d like.
Give them here.
I just got sacked.
Oh, it's really nice, but to tell the truth, that's far too expensive.
As most of our clients are near Tianjin, we'd like to appoint Tangle as the unloading port.
Have you finished school?
Glad to meet you, Mr. Smith. My name is Wang and here is my name card. I'll be glad to do what I can for you.
The phone number is 328 6765 extension 105.
I only started looking for a job a few days ago.
Learning any language takes a lot of effort.But don't give up. Why don't we practise those dialogues together?
So you are watching your weight, aren't you?
You did well on the math test.
I ’ m looking at my horoscope for this month! My outlook is very positive. It says that I should take a vacation to someplace exotic, and that I will have a passionate summer fling!
We don ’ t have enough cash, but I ’ ll take my credit card.
I'd like that. Alright, put on this apron first.
Generally speaking, training new members is usually necessary. We offer our new employees a one-week training course.
We need to take the accounts system offline to carry out the upgrade. But don't worry, it won't cause too much inconvenience. We're going to do it over the weekend.
Try to show the best of yourself with decent words and manners.
Ok.Would you please put all your luggage on the scales?
Perhaps because of the dirty air.
My invitation? No, I haven't. My invitation to what?
Look at this one.It has a radio and cassette player and built in speakers.
What am I supposed to cook?
Why don ’ t we go together? I can show you around. I think you ’ ll have a better time.
Hello. This is Hamilton ’ s Heating and cooling service. Can I help you?
I took out a life insurance policy and make my wife beneficiary.
Oh, dear! I'll do whatever I can.
You know why?
Have you got the latest ONXIU magazine?
Oh, I wonder if she ’ ll go for that.
OK. Relax. This car is an automatic, so you don't have to worry about a clutch.
Thanks. Maybe if things slow down later I'll stop by your table.
Yes, we have a full bar here.
I think I may have seen it on the kitchen table.
Yes, we have contracts with various luxury shops and health clubs, where if you use the card to purchase items from them, you can get some healthy discounts.
I know doctor, thank you so much.
Should I go now?
I understand why you ’ re angry, Mrs. Wilson, and believe me, we are doing everything in our power to work this out.
Wait. Let me tell the lady what we would like to order in front of the seafood fridge first.
You know... like, say God is the creator of the universe, the Bible, and Jesus Christ...
let me give you a little advice. You know what the topics are going to be, so prepares what you would like to say in advance.
I bought one size up by mistake.
Yes. I have to stay in your cry for just one day, can you suggest a short tour?
I'm not interested, Zina.
What do you exactly mean by usually?
If it is not more than fourteen days past its due date, then you may still mail it in.
I could stand to lose a few pounds. Having a car has made me lazy. I never end up walking anywhere!
good morning! I'd like to make a reservation, please. Do you have any rooms available for the next week?
What do you think his strengths are?
OK. We can meet halfway again.
The invitation says it starts at 8
that's right. what's the flash memory of your old mp3?
So I'm on the fifth floor? How come this hotel has no fourth floor.
Were you able to attend Friday night's basketball game?
Would you like to talk over a drink?
Let me see.Yes, we have one room left.You ' re lucky.It ' s the last one.
Well, I have to write the proposal. I'm pretty excited about it.
yes, here you go. I don't need a visa to go to Spain, do I?
She sounds very emotional.
But your promotional materials claim the broads are the least expensive of their types on the market.
Help me organize these coins.
No problem. Look at this one. Same pan, but with a lightweight wooden handle.
How many times have you been here?
Excuse me, I'm looking for the Alands Morrissette album Supposed Former Infatuation Junkie.
I'm waiting till our President gets out of office, and the gas prices go down.
I want a chicken salad.
Sir, I've finished your shaving. Wow, it takes years off you after having a shave.
Is there anything else you would like?
Yes, that's our regular flight to Shanghai. What's your name, PLS?
What about some sugar? Two teaspoonfuls?
What's so special today?
See you soon.
I ’ ll tell Peter to bring your key to your apartment right away.
But I want you to be fit.
let me just grab your file. How long have you worked for us now?
Hi, can I speak with the apartment manager, please?
OK, it will be a new experience for me.
Thank you. I think today we will go there.
She has promised her mother that she would be with him through thick and thin.
They do, but they're a little expensive on certain items.
Did you go to the bank to withdraw money?
Hello. My aunt in the US has sent me $ 500. She sent it yesterday, using the standard service. It's my birthday today, you see.
yes, trying to keep track of all the characters was quite confusing for me.
I dropped it, and the cover tore off.
Yes, I want to be a doctor one of these days. What about you?
Yes, what do you want to know?
I have something important to do, can you fast the speed?
More often than not, the understatement is ' I'm afraid it's time you leave '.
I hope it's not gonna break into three digits
Would you trim off a bit more there, above the ear?
Every honored guests, welcome to Hang Thou. Now we are visiting Tiger-running Spring.
There's a stop right next to the mall?
Dad! I don't have time! I'll be late for school!
What classes did you want to sign up for?
Which glasses? These glasses.
What's the matter, Paul?
Hmm. I see what you mean. Have you spoken with Roger? He usually does better work than this.
Are you a medical or surgical case?
I think our success is partly because of Wallace's contribution, and partly because of our new marketing strategy. Because of the new advertising campaign, we have become the top sellers in the field.
Is that all? He doesn't say very much, does he?
So tell me about it!
What ’ re you doing now?
That'd be great. Thanks! What time should I come over?
I have an offer to work for a company in your city today?
I work for the Bank of China, in the International Section.
I'll meet you at the Gate round about seven.
Of course I am. I only love you, Amy.
I see. It must be worth going to.
I bought it. I got a watch, too. The company that sells this car has a car club.
Now what can I do for you?
Thanks. I'll need a while to choose. Could you come back in a minute?
I can ride too. Perhaps we could go horse riding together at the weekend?
Try not to take on more than you can handle.
Until next weekend. that ’ s ok.
Maybe I should make a plan about learning my biochemistry, which is a mess!
I think so. Have you got all that?
So, if the cause is poverty, there should be a program to make the country richer. If the problem is resources, share them.
Four and a half going on twelve!
sounds reasonable.Even if I'm the right one for the job, many people are applying for the same vacancy at the same time, so I should try my best to catch the Human Resources manager's attention.
Yes, please.we need a record of you education and your work experiences.
Ok, I ’ Ve entered my PIN. There are several options on the screen. I guess I just choose which service I want, don ’ t I?
Thank you for telling me so much, I'll try them next time.
Will you please cut it for a while and come in here to take a letter?
So, I can talk to my Personal Banker 24/7. That's really thoughtful of you. And I have to say, I love the new look of the bank.
I'm very pleased. We look forward to having you here, Miss Briggs.
Do you want to go to an empty classroom?
Thanks. See you later.
I ’ m trying to decide what school to apply for.
Let me have a look. Oh, yes. This one is the IC phone and the other is the coin phone. If you have an IC card, you can insert it into this slot, wait for the dialing signal appearing on the small screen, and then dial the number of the person you are going to call.
Well, there's a department store on Grant Street. There are restrooms in the basement.
Mary, it's good to see you!
Yes. Things certainly have changed since I was a boy. We've developed very quickly.
Go to your polling place early on Election Day.
That's a problem.
Hi, Martin. I ’ Ve been looking for you all morning.
What's up? Honey!
if I taught you how to do it, I'm sure you could solve it.
I understand. I'm interested in the Petty Consumer Loan.
I want to get in touch with the Chinese Embassy because my passport was in the stolen bag.
Lindsay, of course, I will be more than happy to recommend her to you.
Thank you. Oh, it's very delicious.
I ’ m a keyboard operator. What ’ s your job?
It's amazing to me how international business has become. Take my store for example. On any given day, you will find imported items from more than 20 different countries on our shelves.
I see. Now I want to check out two books on spoken English. Can you show me where I can find them?
I am Jason Armstrong. My first initial is J.
Certainly. We provide quality analysis training as part of the training for all new workers, plus a week of further training every year.
Hello, Bob, this is Frank.
The Ukraine team took the lead by 3 to 1 at the end of the first half.
They must be the most famous celebrity couple in Hollywood.
What are you going to wear?
15 % is impossible. That'll leave us almost no profit.
There ’ s so much I want to do. I ’ Ve just finished sending lots of emails to friends and family all over the world. I just ran a search for music to download.
I just want a light wave. I look really silly if my hair is too curly.
I completely understand. I didn't intend on liking spicy food at first either, but when you have no other choices, you've got to adapt.
Hello, three-five.
To meet you half way, what do you say if 50 % by L / C and the balance by D / P?
Make sure you make it to your polling place early on Election Day.
I especially like the wonderful chicken dish.
Awesome. You'll see that they are really catchy.
That's what's hanging on my mind recently.
Oh, it looks well. I like it very much.
I don ’ t think we need too much in the way of soft drinks. Two super bottles of Cola should cover everyone. What about wine?
I agree. You can't expect a close relationship with a dishonest person. Those are the people that will turn their back on you when you are in need.
This is where we sing? These booths are so comfortable I think I could fall asleep!
What kind of food do you want to get?
My mother is a professor and my father is a manager.
When is your garden at its best?
Oh, excellent. Why don't we talk in German for a while then?
The fridges is covered by a one-year warranty.
Yes, she is. And guess what, he is her sixth husband.
Good. I'll do it.
We're rather busy right now.It will take another 15 minutes.
Every five minutes.
I admire a person who is honest, flexible and easy-going.
They are actually fairly straightforward. Do you know where the blanks are kept?
That's what I've heard.
Front desk. May I help you?
If you have any further questions, just ask me.
yeah. It seems like we don't speak the same language as far as movies are concerned.
I have two finals this week and one oral presentation and I'm not ready for any of them!
That is true. I hope it doesn't rain.
He ’ s going to be sent to Britain to study, really?
What about coming back? I'd like to come back at about 7 p. m.
You will go back tomorrow, right?
It's hard to describe. They're sweet, but also sort of acidity.
All right. If it's okay, we would like to sign an agency agreement with you immediately.
Well, considering our long standing good business relationship, we'll try hard to negotiate with our manufacturers for an earlier delivery.
I hope that the owners aren ’ t insulted by that offer.
Why don't you get it all fixed?
A contract is an agreement which is binding on both parties mutually. A contract might be formal or informal, oral or written. An implemented contract is one which has been fully executed by both sides ; an executive contract is one which is going to be performed. They are enforceable by laws and any party who defaults the contract may be sued and forced to make compensation.
Really? Have you ever been there?
Many of the slower dances are danced to the lyrics of tragedies. He meant that you turned it into a comedy.
Yes.Will you check if my suit is ready to go, please?
Since I did not have much staff, I asked my cousin to help me out.
How about my backpack? Do you know where that is?
I'd like to have the insurance of the goods covered up to 130 % of the invoice amount.
Darlene! Indeed, It’s been a while! How have you been? Wow, you look amazing! I love what you ’ Ve done with your hair!
What about this one? This one's got a label.
It's not surprising. Our school year just ended, and a lot of Chinese are on vacation.
Yes, that's fine. Now when you finish these, I want you to put these cards in alphabetical order, using the last names, and then make a list.
I can try, but knowing Margaret she will see through that immediately.
Who's that man over there talking to James?
Oh my god. Please save her life.
Wow, that's cutting it close! That means we only have 25 minutes to make the connection! What gate is it at?
Oh, I just noticed that I accidentally brought you your friend's breakfast.
Oh, I see. Let me guess... something sexy for the new bride on her first night of marriage?
That give us a good lesson.
Whoa! This is a massive flea market!
To some extent, it is. Anyway, whether they like it or not, they do give people a very good impression.
Amazing! I can imagine the feeling when I hear the smooth tune around my ears.
Today's rate is 821.32 USD to 100 RIB, which isn't bad.
Well, I am looking for some winter clothes for my fiancee.
Are you sure you want to go?
You know, I'm a pretty laid-back person. I don't like to have lots of arguments or worry about lots of things. For example, I like to keep the apartment clean too, but if it gets a little dirty once in a while, that's not a big deal.
Well I have to decide which gifts to keep and which to exchange for better ones when I go to the Boxing Day sales this afternoon!
You're in great shape, Keith. Do you work out at a gym?
By the way, do you work out?
I know. This is a really good bargain.
Yeah! But French is not easy to learn.
Please I'd like a ticket to New York.
Thanks, ma ’ am. You ’ re a lifesaver!
Next time, go with your gay friend who is more in touch with his feelings.
Do you have green tea perfume?
That's right, quite different. One day one of my American friend looked pale, so I asked him whether he was sick or not. But he was reluctant to answer my question.
You are authorized to borrow up to 20,000 RIB, with a repayment period of up to 1 year.
I ’ m just finishing now, ma ’ am. I ’ ll have them ready within the hour.
what's up?
Thanks for offering to give me a lift. I ’ m looking forward to this party, but I didn ’ t want to go alone.
All right. But so help me it's a better work.
God it. Thans very much.
Does that mean the stronger the better?
he is tall and slim, fair-haired.
His name is not fat boy! You can be so rude sometimes.
Jim, I heard you took a trip to San Diego. Is that right?
Once a week. Most nights I sit at home and watch telly
We want to order 900 dozen.
oh, that helps a lot to promote your corporate image.
I ’ m ready looking forward to it. This party is going to be a blast!
A bookstore, probably. With a yellow and orange logo.
I usually watch a lot of television before I go to bed. Maybe I should try something else to help me quiet down.
I wanted to, but I ran into this foxy lady that just moved to my block! I was chatting her up a bit and then we mellowed out at her place.
he ’ s a famous American musician.
So did i. that's why i didn't take my umbrella. i got cold in the rain in the afternoon.it was raining cats and dogs.
Some of them are of the latest style. Now I have a feeling that we can do a lot of trade in this line. We wish to establish business relationship with you.
Fill it up with premium, please.
No, I couldn't care less!
He's honest, hardworking and responsible. I simply can't find any shortcoming of his as an employee.
I like Brisbane. I had my teenage years in Brisbane, growing up in Brisbane, um or maybe Sidney because it is a big city, but Brisbane has got the gold coast and the sunshine.
Hello, take a seat please. Let's get straight to the point. This is our contract. Please read it carefully before signing.
I didn ’ t know you were taking any kind of class. Tell me about it.
I'm very worried, doctor
Allan, I am really disappointed by your lack of effort on this project.
Going for a walk in such a cold weather?
I would really appreciate that, thanks.
Hello, this is Lin Tao. I am calling to inquire about my interview result last week.
Please make a detailed schedule on the visit this afternoon.
Ok Chloe, can you please breathe in and out slowly for me while I listen to your chest? You really are all bunged up, you don ’ t sound too good at all. Ok, I ’ m going to set you up with a bunch of antibiotics. You will need to take these orange pills twice a day and these blue pills every evening. You will also have to take this cough medicine three times a day after meals. Finally, I am giving you an inhaler to use every time you feel breathless... just to clear up your lungs!
Jack Remington, room 1408.
Unfortunately, yes. It will be clear early Saturday morning but there is a high chance of showers and thunderstorms later in the day. There is a severe thunderstorm warning for some parts of the Southeast. Folks in those areas might see some hail and flooding, especially in areas that have been experiencing record high rainfalls.
I bought it yesterday afternoon and they delivered it this morning at 10:45.
I've never been to Disneyland. I went to Universal Studios when I was fifteen. My parents took my brother Franco and I to Los Angeles and San Francisco.Wish you and Janet love each other more.
You know what? You and I had no plans, so I made plans with Mark. What's the problem?
Oh, you men! You're all the same.
Very well, I can ring you up over here, sir.
Professor, I will not be here for our next class meeting.
I've had good responses from the Beijing Times, help-wanted ads.
I know, I know. I am trying but, I don ’ t have the willpower to just quit. I can ’ t fight with the urge to reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with coffee or after lunch! Please understand?
But i do not like anyone touch my head.
This is the East market to Central park bus. Where do you want to go?
I think so, since I was in primary school. How long have you been interested in classical music.
yes, I got a grant to study Chinese.
That's fine. Don't forget to update the inventory.
Oh, is there? Which room is it?
I said, Bonjour!
I like this style. But do you have any other colors? I feel that this color doesn't suit his complexion.
You needn't worry about that. Cartons are extensively used in our shipments to foreign countries and there have never been complaints from our clients. Now, as regards payment, we have agreed to use dollars, am I right?
And among apples, oranges and bananas, which is your favorite?
Yes, thank you. May I ask for an apartment?
Are they breakable?
We need a person with ability and flexibility.
I make around one hundred thousand dollars per year.
that's a good idea. When did you buy it? Is it a name brand?
Sorry, you can only pay cash.
Oh, yes. The kids are too excited to wait. After we clean up the mess all the empty boxes and the wrapping paper we have a big breakfast. Then the kids have the whole day to play with their new toys.
Did you see everything?
Ms Anderson, my name is Mike. I am Division Chief of ABC Company. Welcome to Toronto.
Here ’ s your library card.
I'd like you to bring me some food.
I ’ ll tell you what, I can get you some hamsters and we ’ ll take it from there.
Is that a Danish machine? The name looks Danish.
Yes, it's really amazing. I got to go now. I'm meeting with some other collectors.
I don ’ t see any wrinkles or sagging skin! You are 25, stop being ridiculous. Besides, I think that people who get Boto, have facelifts, or tummy tucks look weird. It doesn ’ t look natural.
Didn't we make that appointment a long time ago?
I like music that has a fast beat and is lively, like dance music. You know, I go to a disco almost every week. Sometimes it's too loud though. You prefer classical music, don ’ t you?
Welcome on board. May I see your boarding pass?
Are you here about your ticket?
0kay. Dinner's on me.
What do you believe, John? Are you Christian?
Well, the term ' discomgoogolation ' comes from ' discombobulate ' and ' google '. Because floods of information are just a mouse click away, net users are very likely to become addicted to the web.
I like baseball and basketball.
You are very modest. Best luck in your new position.
I ’ d like to buy these shoes.
Yes, I'd like a portion of that strawberry tart.
Did you have to blow right next to the phone?
I haven't yet. I just keep hoping it's just a phase he's going through.
Here is your RIB, the exchange form and receipt and your passport. Please check the amount.
I asked if there was anything I could do to help his family, and I told him that I could be a shoulder for him to cry on.
Great, that ’ s why I ’ m here.
Just dab it all over your face and then take a look at the symbols that appear.
I see. Would you be interested in seeing the audio-visual products? They are made by our company.
We are going to Macau to visit my niece. She said it's better for me to bring US dollars, is that right?
No trouble at all. I think maybe you will meet some of my friends here as well.
Yeah, and meet other drivers of the same car!
I know. But your way doesn't touch my heart.
Yes, we are very close. He is 12 years old now and very smart. He always makes us laugh a lot.
Just take it easy. If he starts to bother you, let me know and I'll call security.
Oh yes, that was the best job in most farm families. That's where many of them learned to play the flute.
My name is Karen Huang. That's spelled H - U - A - N - G.
Really? I can't say I agree.
En, I am looking for a porter, do you know where I can find one?
Did it hurt?
Sounds reasonable. I will tell my boss about you agent application. Another question, what do you think is the minimum annual sales you can guarantee?
I was born in London, but I spent most of my childhood in Hongkong.
Room 202, but I'm afraid we have to ask for a deposit of $ 200.
I'm going to be a clerk.
I really think we should take a tour of the White House.
Jimmy, I ’ d like to wear this robe for tonight cocktail party. What do you think of it?
Oh, that's pitiful.
Where are your parents?
She is a pretty good teacher! With her help I think I can make great progress in English.
What's the second solar system?
How about next monday?
Can you book me a single room on March 31?
I was wondering if there was shrimp in the soup.
That ’ s my middle finger, Nick. This is my ring finger!
oh, that suits you very well. Besides it is believed in China that the red color brings happiness and good luck.
Oh, that's too bad! I am sorry to hear that!
That's not very easy to say.
OK. It's 15066688866. Call me! Bye-bye, then.
Thank you very much, Mr.James.
What forms should I fill out to collect unemployment?
Do you have a same one in yellow?
Thank you for visiting our products. I remember that you are interested in our silk products and so, could I have a meeting with you this week to show you moreinformation about our products?
I think so too.
Oh, I'm so sorry. I thought you had one. Here you are.
What date and time will you be checking in?
I heard one of the purposes to do it is to frighten the devils so they will not come to do any harm to people in the next year.
Firstly, it can overcome the geographic limitation. And secondly, e-commerce can lower the internal costs. And thirdly, people like us, can also open stores on Internet.
I bought it for one hundred and forty-five dollars at Helen ’ s Boutique. I didn ’ t know I could get it cheaper somewhere else.
Yesterday. She wore that gown last night, and showed it off to everybody at Mr. Mile ’ s party.
I know, you're absolutely right.
In about 3 to 4 days.
Oh.This is Paul.When will he be back?
Is there anything interesting?
Then we'll put you in a cast.
Good, that's all then.
I know what you mean. What can I get for you?
Have you gotten any interviews yet?
I would love for it to rain today.
No problem. Follow me, please.
All right. But I am very poor at math. Would you like to help me with my math?
What do you think of this flat?
I'll try. Where exactly is your friend waiting?
what a pity that the traditional teahouses, as depicted Lao She, keep fading away so quickly in this metropolis. It is not easy to find an old-fashioned teahouse that suits the ordinary people's spend
I love you, too, Dad. Bye.
I just can't stand it. It's really gross in here! There ' s a stain on the toilet seat, and the floor was wet and slippery. So I cleaned it!
Hello, George! Haven't seen you for some time.Where have you been?
What are you planning on making?
It's time for bed.
You seem to be unhappy. What happened?
You should read the book. The original story is much better and has a different twist at the end.
What would you do?
That happens to be my favorite. Waiter, I think we're ready to order.
Thank you. I will if I have chance.Goodbye and happy landing!
Yes, could you give me some ideas?
No. What did it say?
You know, you're right. Maybe you should get a dog.
You do? OK, fine with me.
Yes, but not always. However, I won't let it go if I have a chance.
Hello, Steven. Congratulations!
I have no idea. Measure me, please.
Tell that to my boss.
i hope your cat finds its way back home.
What do I have to do?
You'd better remember your promise.
Thanks. I'll be right back.
Then why are you hesitating?
Thanks a lot ; are these all the notes?
And from Winnipeg we go around the lakes through Toronto, right?
Yes, it is almost new here.
There's an airsickness bag behind the seat that's in front of you.
I'd like to buy some perform for my girlfriend.
It's a well furnished eat-in kitchen. The stove and the ice-box are in good order, and the plumbing is OK, too.
Don ’ t worry. I ’ Ve decided that for your birthday I ’ m going to take you shopping for a new dress.
You did? Wow! Where did you learn...?
The agent we are looking for will help us in Britain with publicity, advertising and so on.
The answer is Belle Opaque. It's a Spanish movie, and the title means The Age of Beauty in English.
Then tell me something about your background.
Four. They are production department, finance department, sales and marketing department and HR department. I directly report to Mr. White. He is on a business trip and is suppose to be back this morning. Probably you will be meeting him at lunch.
It’s none of my business.
Mmmm... I'll have to think about it.
How about these famous brands? Such as pierre Cardin...
They pay enough.
Some of my friends tell me that being a teacher, the most important is the beauty of mind. You shouldn't pay too much attention to your appearance. You should appear frugal and prudent. Your experience and knowledge will gain the appreciation of your interviewer.
Of course! Everyday, there is a deadline to meet. Bosses watching and testing me all the time, not liking in college, handed in paper months later and tested on schedule. It is so busy. But anyway, I have been trying my best to be a good employee.
I wanted to buy a beautiful wool sweater for my girlfriend. It was priced at forty dollars, so I started by offering the salesclerk thirty.
Yes. I hope you can help. I'm interested in obtaining a Working Capital Loan. So, I was wondering what you offer here? Do you have various types?
I liked it. I thought it was great.
First, change your shoes to slippers. Then walk up to the changing room to get prepared for a shower.
How long until you're finished?
Well, go home and rest in bed for two days, then you'll feel better.
That's correct. We have four seasons of spring.
I enjoy Thai or Japanese the best.
I like hot food, especially Sichuan cuisine.
What about your friend Zoe
Then may I suggest a family suite? We have just had a cancellation.
We need a person who knows how to operate and repair all kinds of office appliances.
Ah! She has a bad memory. How old is she?
Mmm! Beer, tequila, and... lime!
I have no idea. Do you think we're in a rut?
Good idea! Is two o'clock okay?
I ’ m Miss Sherman. What seems to be the problem?
Welcome to IBA. What can I do for you today?
You ’ Ve got a great personality.
Don't you hit it off?
Good morning. Would you like to tell me something about the computer? I've never seen this brand before. What is your superior brand?
Would you mind relocating?
Actually, I haven ’ t had time to look it over. Did you bring another copy with you?
Yes. My car is having problems.
I eat dog food when my parents are out.
Here we go.
That's one way of putting it. For me, a job needs to stimulate my brain, otherwise it becomes a daily drudgery.
Take them for two days.If your symptoms persist for more than two days, you should see a doctor Also, be sure to drink plenty of water to prevent dehydration.
By melting it down and then reforming it. Our main products are bin liners for kitchen bins and carrier bags for supermarkets.
I want to use a credit card. Do you take Discover?
She kept on bothering me.
You means she didn ’ t marry a rich man.
A bottle of champagne.
Yes, they can. If you remember correctly, people used to believe that the world was flat.
The core values are credibilities, team work, diligence and devotion.
You can get a day, weekly, monthly, or student pass.
Great. How much is this going to cost?
That will make him so happy.
Should I call the police?
I know a lot of people think the meetings aren't too useful. I'm aware of that.
I know. However, Jazz always annoys me. I really don't enjoy music in a movie.
do you have any plans for dinner tonight?
Where do I start?
I need paper, ink cartridges, and paper clips.
Hi, Dan. What's new?
It's okay. It's a really big campus.
Excuse me, Mr. White? I just need you to sign these before I leave.
Thank you, Doctor. I will go now. Bye-bye.
Well, if I were you, I'd go to see the doctor. That might help. And you'd better stay in bed today instead of going to work.
Ah! I know a way to convince him that Americans can make good Italian food!
What about the outer packing?
There's still a lot left-have some more!
Are you having problems? This is the first I ’ Ve heard of it.
Thank you very much for your kindness.
I really didn't mean to.
What time is the most convenient for you to change rooms, sir?
Tell me! Tell me! What's your secret?!
I was there as it happened.
You have a nice apartment.
I'm so sorry.
Our house is too small. We had better have a big one.
What does MI mean?
Do you like your job?
Yah, but it doesn't have a red one.
I think a surprise party may be better. But I forget when her birthday is.
yeah, almost. But there is one thing.
I feel confident of his ability to cure my daughter's disease.
Yeah, I am having a party this saturday night, a sort of house warming, and i want to invite you. are you busy?
Hey, Susie, what health club do you belong to?
It is depressing to hear the price goes higher and higher.
Will you be able to make up the work you missed?
Could you fill out this form, please, ma'am?
Don ’ mention it. I ’ m glad to help.
OK, will do. Bye.
What kind of music do you like best?
Perfect. I'II start preparing tomorrow. If we re going to drive, l'II need to fill up the tank.
Exactly, if we accept these it could cause a lot of problems in our record and our accounts system because the numbers don't match.
Say ' hello ' to them for me.
How about yourself?
Dad, I don't want to talk about it now.
All my joints seem to hurt and I have a terrible headache.
Welcome to come again.
Turn on the radio? What for?
Some more Chinese tea for us, please.
How about some fish?
I'll need a parking permit for next semester.
Here you are. sir, the chocolate cake is very delicious.
But I think it's fantastic and charming. Well, you have your opinion and I have mine.
His girlfriend dumped him, and he is tearing his heart out over her.
Wait for a moment, please. Let me check whether the private room is available or not. No problem.
Perfect. I'll see you in front of the apartment at eleven thirty.
Great. I forgot to ask you, though. How long did you want the place?
Okay, now you are a famous star.
Sure. I strongly advise you to buy a bottle of perfume and a lighter.
How is that?
Will you bring our bill, please?
We're going to that new restaurant for lunch. Would you like to join us?
Here you are.You can try them on.
Is that the university next to the Teachers ' College?
What store did you get it from?
Really? He looks so young.
Are bananas on sale today?
It is at 8 o'clock.
Then what makes a ' set ' of clubs?
Are you a social person?
Perrier, Jim Beam, apples, and grape juice. It will all be there shortly, sir.
Just fine, Mr. Emory. Could you please sign this memo? I want to get it out to everybody this afternoon.
No. Thank you. It looks a bit too dangerous for me.
Ok, I would like to check out these books.
Oh, this is Monica
I want to see all places of renown in Suzhou.
Right. We'll choose the 4 best candidates and have them come back for a second interview. The top one of them will be the one we will hire.
Yes, it has been a long time!
Excuse me, I have something to trouble you.
Yeah. we never do that in a public office.
It's the best seller everyone's been talking about for the last six months.
Great. Thanks again. You've been very helpful.
I would like to open a checking account.
That's a nice discount.
Em, you ’ re right.
Can you tell me the exact place?
I need help picking out a lotion.
Look! The iron is still on.
Mountain biking is an Olympic sport?
They're probably going to be so happy.
What time are you leaving?
when did you graduate?
I'll write a letter soon. I hope you are all well.
It includes water, but not gas and electricity.
What about jeans? It's the fashion now.
Never mind, the odour of my feet will quicken their eating speed.
I checked it already.
Oh, I'm sorry.However, if you could help me out, I'll double the pay for the hours worked.
Regular or unleaded?
Yeah. It's so nice of you to comfort me.
This lamb's very good.
Really? It's unbelievable.
Yes, I like it very much.
I'd like that very much.
What's your flight number?
I can't take the credit for that. I'm just Zina's assistant. She's the pro.
Really? oh! I'm glad you let me know.
the game are always delightful.
I don't have a warrant.
Do I have any other choices?
Fill in this slip in ink, please.
Her home is between the China hotel and Li Sheng Theater.
Yes! We made it. 5:58, just before the library closes.
Good afternoon. What service do you require?
Actually, I could use some help. Thank you so much.
No, this is her sister, Nancy.
I'm going out in about half an hour.
Yes, a single, thanks.
They're similar to an avocado. When the outside feels soft, they're ripe.
Perhaps one year, I'm not sure.
I'm not sure, but I think so. I'm very exhausted, but I can't sleep.
Yeah. I worked about 20 hours a week in a pizza restaurant.
Hello. Beijing Restaurant. How can I help you?
Let me have a soda.
Excellent. Well, thank you very much, Mr. B, and you'll be hearing from us in the next few days, either way.
No, we don't.
Who's in charge of the construction project?
Why? I think the meeting went well.
It's simple. Just press the button, like this.
Can you come in for an interview tomorrow at 10:00?
Last week, I tried to buy some books online, but I didn't know how to pay for them?
You have to pay $ 0.5 more.
Me too. But I tell myself that if they don ’ t accept me, another school will.
There was a guy on the sidewalk.He had three new boxes, Panasonic video camera boxes.He said he had to get rid of them quick.
Hold on. We will be successful right away.
You can always just check online.
Maybe we should call its after-service man.
Happy Valentine's Day!
Why don't you call back later this afternoon?
Would you come to spend the weekend with us?
I'm really glad that you came to see me.
How did he know that he had bad mouthed him?
Your birthday is coming, and I think this dress suits you. Why not try it now?
How about if I pay $ 850?
Yes, we have a reservation for three nights.Mona White. I called last week.
Yes, but I got angry with him too quickly. He probably thought that I mistrusted him. I shouldn ’ t have got angry.
It's 555-4321.
That ’ s great. Thanks for the ride. I really appreciate 1 it. You know my car is still in the shop.
I'll pay the money, as long as I'm getting what I pay for.
Excuse me. I'm looking for an old music box.
Union Bank. How can I be of service?
Tell me something about yourself and your past experience.
About a month.
That sounds ideal. Could you show me some?
What are you thinking of making?
I have, but I have never done this before so would it be possible for you to double check them?
I ’ m afraid we have really made a great concession, and could not go any further.
You know, I really don ’ t think Americans are very romantic.
Yo, G.How are you getting along with your classmates in the English training school?
I know history is about to be made, and I would like to be a part of it.
Lily, I am terribly sorry about this. But we have to put off or cancel tomorrow's meeting.
That ’ s why I ’ m asking you.
OK. Here you are. Anybody who wants help, please come to me.
That ’ s good. I ’ d like to see it.
Fine, thanks a lot. Bye!
Unfortunately, it's just too expensive for majority of consumer to afford.
Well, I've always used the Bank Book, but now I have this card. I don't know how to use it in the machine.
Right now, we have incentives encouraging employees to come to work as often as possible.But employees with colds and the flu are coming to work and infecting their colleagues.
Yes. I find dates to be a lot of fun.
What shall we do today?
French onion soup, sir, what dressing would you like for your salad?
Your price has gone up sharply, hasn't it?
I would like to, but I injured my wrist last weekend.
Mary and I decided to ring the curtain down on our love affair.
Is she strict?
How about going to the gym? There's one really close to work.
Why not just give them money in red envelopes? That would be much easier.
well, it's said that a lot of young people favor getting married quickly which tend end quickly too.
It's great! The mountains here are beautiful and the skiing is spectacular.Have you been here for a long time?
Then please cover W. P. A. and TEND for this transaction.
Just transfer it over to my remaining account.
I have found it quite different here from China since I came to the United States.
Can we meet each other half way?
What time is it, Tom?
Yes, I do. It save me a lot of time. I also have standing orders for my subscriptions to magazines.
Yes. I believe you have a luncheon meeting this coming Wednesday.Could you give me some more information about that?
This party is going to have a DJ, food, and drinks.
You know what I mean.
The chef trained in Florence. The pasta is very good here.
No, but I ’ d like to learn how to use them.
A lot of things aren't fair. That's life.
He's fixing his roof.
Yeah. People always enjoy the lighted lanterns and the gala performances.
It's for fun. And also, the apples here are Green Food.
Huh? You mean you snuck a peek at his test?
We have a really interesting project coming up. Would you want to join us on it?
No no, I just changed my eating habits. I eat a balance meal. and I eat less than before.
Anything interesting on?
Let's give Malia a call and ask her for her help right now.
I have got a run. Can you tell me where is the restroom?
I will miss you. But anyway I wish you every success at your new post.
I see. Not everyone is cut out to work in management.
What ’ s happening?
I need to improve my English.
I am calling to say thank you for the interview yesterday.
Yes, sir. It will be a great pity!
Wow, you sound very professional.
It's my pleasure. We hope you'll visit Beijing again.
Do you have the latest lipstick from Christian Dior?
There is dial-up or DEL.
That ’ s great! I ’ Ve heard people say that before.
In that case, I'm fit for the position I think.
Are you kidding? I always get up late. Oh, my God. Can't believe that. That is terrible.
Do you have anything published?
Well, our public schools here are not very good and private school are just too expensive. I have been reading up on home schooling and it has a lot of advantages.
I watched a very interesting documentary about plants yesterday evening. It was called “ unusual plants ” and looked at several species of plants from around the world which have unusual features.
A little bird whispered to me. Keep that to yourself.
What does the reading tell you?
I'm busy this Friday. I'm sorry.
I got major FOMO from missing that the workshop.
The usual. Aerobics, kickboxing, yoga. They just started a Tai Chi class too.
Don't mention it. I am pleased to help you.
Where can I get a phone card?
I'm afraid I don't quite understand.
That's reasonable. OK, thank you very much.
No, I only receive my salary.
Mostly cassette tapes.
Well, have you ever heard of Oulong tea and compressed tea?
Maybe you would like to try this one with the willow pattern. The price is the same and it's bigger.
That's basically what I eat.
To tell you the truth, I am on the diet.
Situation comedies. A sitcom is half an hour long and it airs weekly. Sitcom shows tend to be about ordinary people. If there is one thing that all the shows have in common, it is teaching wholesome values.
what was the prize?
Were you involved in any club activities at your university?
Have you a taste for this kind?
What's the answer?
I started feeling kind of sick last night after dinner, but this morning the pain got really bad!
I have to go up to London for a couple of days next week.Would you like to come?
( still on the bus. ) What time is it?
Well, I like the house, but I can't decide yet. My wife must see it first.
What kind of medicine does he need?
What? How much do you know Hollywood?
No, not the really, don't worry about it, like I said there'll be a lot of people there doing the same thing that you are doing, so just follow the crowd, There's only one direction to go, so you won't get on the wrong train. Head north on the Yellow line, and you'll see Wudaokou in just a couple of stops.
sure. You can buy almost anything you can think of.
May I ask, sir, if you enjoyed your stay?
I am not sure. We will ask for directions in the coffee shop.
Are you going to make an offer today?
Because I don't want any, er, do you understand? But you are quite sure, are you?
No problem. You can try this kind of gel which can prevent freckle, the effect will be better if you use this powder foundation applied with it.
Actually, if you go to the bus stop in the next block, you can take bus 301 which will let you right off in front of the zoo.
Yes, of course.
Our restaurant receives a lot of foreign customers. Can you serve them in English?
I cannot have the heart to do that.
I think Mapo bean curd and shredded meat in chili sauce are quite special and delicious. We have a Sichuan food dining room. May I suggest you to go there? It's on the third floor.
At Pier Five.
Ah! It hurts. Don't touch it.
Oh, really? Is it a good way?
Why do you want to join us?
Do you want to go out to eat?
You're going to have a little Montezuma's revenge tomorrow morning.
Hi, I want to check out. Here is my room key.
Yes, you'd print out the address and telephone number of those guests from your computer, and then send those materials to each business worker.
Are you doing the job the way I suggested?
I'd like a 20 - cent stamp, please.
No, I mean some of them are not clean enough.
Just bring me three bottles each of Jim Beam and Perrier.
Well, tell me something of yourself.
How many pieces of baggage have you lost?
What do you think of Frank?
My name is Steven and I live in Beijing. I was born in 1980. I have graduated from Peking University. I majored in business administration.
Yes. I bought this sheet here yesterday.
What day is it?
We are all learning things that will help us in our interview. What do you think are some important considerations going into your interview?
Well, I ’ d better get back to work. I ’ Ve got a ton of stuff on my desk!
Hi. I'm looking for some good deals on produce.
Where is the baby ’ s mother?
It's 1446 Pine Street.
As you like.
Ok, I will take two bottles.
OK. See you at your office at 2:30.
Which credit card are you speaking of?
OK, thank you. By the way, what can I do if I want to put off my flight?
Well, thank you. Mr.Parry, for all your information. Just one more question.
I stopped counting at nine.
I know it, but I don't know when I can make it better.
I see. Well, there ’ s no rush. Please send it via priority mail. Please be extra careful, the contents of the package are fragile.
Good afternoon.Swiss Airline.Miss Grown speaking. Can I help you?
I only have one card.
actually, why don't we go there by bike? We could get stuck in traffic if we travel by bus in such hour.
As the saying goes, work while you work, play while play. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, you know?
What would you like for dessert, sir? We have a choice of cake or ice cream.
Sounds good. What time do you want me to come?
How long did it take you to do the tiling.
A playpen and crib! Thanks Carla! This is just what I needed!
how do you feel about wearing name logos or slogans on your clothing?
I see. Please fill out this form. And you need to contact your embassy or consulate to report it as soon as possible.
Maybe not. I think we should just focus on the retired people.
I promise you that I have the time to do this. If I didn't, I wouldn't offer to help.
I ’ ll take this stew then.
Can I have your name, please?
Addiction? checking emails and text messages often can be called an addiction? no way!
Well, you can bet this relationship ’ s going to be a flash in the pan.
What's the deal with the Asia area sales? Did you have a chance to look at any other reports that came in from the branch offices?
The final report is exceptionally thorough and well done. I think that you have been come up with some interesting recommendations for the client.
Are there many accidents in the city every day?
Hi. This is Taylor Wright calling. I ’ Ve got an appointment with Doctor Bell at 9.00 tomorrow morning. I ’ Ve got to cancel this appointment. My father-in-law passed away suddenly last night.
As new orders keep pouring in, the workers are working three shifts to step up production.
But Sunday is the same with Saturday. If you don ’ t mind, that's OK.
I have experience in computer operation, proficiency in Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel.
And, her lips?
The big one.
I'm coming to pick up my ticket. This is my reservation note.
Why don't you go shopping online?
It's exaggerated. Actually this sort of thing happens to everyone.
Do you have a cold?
Yes, I did. I ’ Ve put one on the table for each child. I put up the big “ happy birthday ” sign too.
I will go out of my way to catch the attention of the interviewer.
I'm very sorry I can't.
Surely, of course. What kind of currency have you got?
Yeah, I got to eat as much pizza as I could for free.
We should make it, if there isn't too much traffic.
The water will not drain.
When can I take my test?
Hmm, they look interesting. Can I have a copy of your brochure?
What are your responsibilities as a secretary?
I know Mark is your only child. You may do it differently from what I did. Sometimes I would tap their hands when they made troubles.
Well, that was tough.
You can refund it in 7 days and exchange it in one year.
Let ’ s go check out the kitchen. The printout says that it is quite large.
A juice and a coke.
Really? You've done a good job.
So what? It only makes her look cheap and vulgar.
I'm an apprentice with a local engineering firm. My training lasts for two years. Two days a week I study Engineering at a local college. If I pass all my exams, I hope the company will take me on as an engineer.
Do you mean the one near the health centre on Old Slate Road?
May, is this the Hall of Ancient China?
What is the phone number?
Yeah, very tasteful. And with them, you look even more fashionable. Oh, there are so many French perfumers. Oops, perfumes for guys? So strange!
I'm sorry, sir. What seems to be the trouble?
I don't mind paying a lot as long as the quality is good.
What do you think of the teacher?
Yes. I want to reserve a table for two this evening.
What kind of action is required?
When will he come back, do you know?
About 3 years, so I came here 2000.
I'm looking for a citizen for my wife's birthday.
Don ’ t think any more about it.
Good morning. Yes, I am. But I ’ m sorry I don ’ t think I know you.
right. Then we turn left and walk up this small hill. The view from the top of the hill is worth the climb. We can eat a snack there.
What features do they offer?
Yeah. Li Na's mother has been building a fire under her since her neighbour's daughter got married with a Canadian. She's almost driving Li Na crazy.
I am Mormon, so I go to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
Oh, I forgot about it. I'll get it.
You will get that information in court.
Could I have one for tomorrow morning?
on the fouth day, we went to taste the French cuisine. That was really fantastic! And no stomach problems.
What's the matter here?
Exactly. Then each individual has the chance to diversify their portfolio over many different areas, it doesn't have to be stocks. And, we provide a Professional Fund Manager, so you know your investment will be safe with us.
Yes, no problem. You walk down this street. You turn left at the first intersection. Walk along that road, turn right at the corner. After that, you make a left-hand turn at the first traffic light. The Royal Hotel is on your right side.
That ’ s gorgeous! Do they have it in a size 8?
How much is your last salary?
I'd like an aisle seat. I feel terrible near the window.
To cancel your reservation, I need your name, phone number, and date of trip, please.
What type of music do you like to listen to?
Hi. My minibar is empty.
Would you like me to come get you when the food is done?
No, you'll have to get off at the bank, and take a No. 50.
Maybe you got your plate too full this semester? You can change that next semester.
OK. I will deposit my bag right now.
Have you met Professor Smith?
A magic love potion?
Sounds great! Shall I learn the actions that Jet Li did in the movies?
Yes. Can I help you?
It's Traveller's Cheques, is that possible?
Hi, Nancy. How are you doing?
After this dye job, it feels I look younger.
That must have been stressful.
Oh yes, well, he tried to climb in through the bathroom window, but apparently he slipped and broke the glass with his foot. The neighbors heard him and thought a robbery was in progress, so they called the police.
By all means.But you have to deposit enough money before you can write out your checks.
I haven't danced for a long time.
The bronze cup was made 4,000 years ago. It's priceless!
According to your performance, I decided to give you a salary increase. From next month, there will be a 2,000 yuan raise to your salary. Although your first raise might not sound considerable, the company believes that with your ability, sooner or later you'll get a better raise.
That was a great dinner. I didn't know that you knew how yo cook.
I am sorry to trouble you again, Mr.Stone.
It's the most delicious dinner I've had for a long time. It's such a rich dinner.
That sounds great. Two Tsingtao beers, please.
Wait a moment. It's $ 30.
See you then!
Thanks, but I know falling in love is one thing while staying in love is another.
I talked to them probably about two weeks ago. Yeah, everything is going well.
No foot gives out scent.
Good afternoon, Mrs.Vale. Please sit down.
Yeah, you are right. I must stop complaining and stick to it every day.
would you mind if I helped out in the kitchen instead? I do enjoy cooking.
Just kidding, M. Why don't you come work out with me?
What kind do you plan on making?
I must catch the nine-thirty train.
I would continue to work in the company as long as the job suits me well.
Well, since it's summer, and I had looked that you had quite a bit sun, I'll recommend our summer special, it's specially suited for individuals with sensitive skin.
We'll send a squad car shortly.
I heard you've found a new job.
Yes, I ’ ll have an ice tea.You see it next to the lemonade.
Yes, I have a Cambridge Business English Certificate and Lawyer ’ s Qualification Certificate.
What is the difference between them?
How many bedrooms and bathrooms do you need?
Sure. There you are.
that's nice. Do you know you can get one at the wholesale market near the zoo for a much lower price?
Where can find the pandas? I think we are here to see the pandas.
You are sounding like we are already married.
I don't know exactly, but it costs a lot of money.
Anything you say or do might make it worse. Just try to ride out the storm for a while.
Thank you. Are all these yours?
Yeah, I know it sounds weird, but a 401k is a type of retirement plan that allows employees to save and invest for their own retirement. Through a you can authorize your employer to deduct a certain amount of money from your paycheck and invest it in the plan. Everyone tries to contribute as much as possible so that when you retire, you can rest peacefully on your nest egg.
Do you want to know what kind of pie I like?
Thank you. I never can find my way around this store.
You will need to wait a few minutes for fries. They're still in the fryer.
Are you ready to order, sir?
My name is Li Jean.
It provides breads and butter of your family. Besides, it simulates you to purse noble dreams ,
I spilled some coffee on it and now it won't work.
Good morning. Could I speak with Mr. Willard please?
I'm going to call you soon.
In fact, They'll stretch a bit later.
I hate to say goodbye, but it's late.
So I can't take my gun then.
No, just the motorcycle permit.
You're supposed to clean your teeth before you go to bed.
Oh, don't be so strict! We are in Las Vegas.
I like to hang out with my friends, play games and go swimming.
Do you still want the car, sir?
Of course I did. Didn ’ t you?
I'm a student, and I have a part-time job, too.
Black is good.
That's great, here you are. This is my passport.
Have you made up your mind about not going back to your hometown after graduation? Where else would you go?
I cut it on that blade.
My sister has New Balance running shoes. I want shoes just like hers. I don't care if they're expensive. And they look cool too.
What is the fare?
It must be a unique experience. I ’ m looking forward to share your story when you come back.
With or without private bathroom?
I want to go to the supermarket.
Well regardless, I'm very happy that you came to see me.
First of all, they have an excellent benefits package for all employees, even the maintenance staff have health and dental coverage.
You look like being on cloud nine.
Is that satisfactory?
What are you doing, Janice?
Yes, Mr. Reynolds. They were approved yesterday. You can pick up the check today.
You were right, it was from a headhunter. He wouldn't tell me anything without a signed contract.
yes, we are very close. He is 12 years old and very smart. He always makes us laugh a lot.
Indeed.He ' s strict with himself, too.We can see every lecture of his is well-prepared.
oh, it is really far from here. You ’ re going in the wrong direction actually.
I see. Well, now you can have it as long as you bring it back by nine thirty.
Sure. Let me ring this up for you at the register. If you would like, this can be gift-wrapped for free. Just take it to the customer service department.
That's a lot of money.
Do you have any evidence?
That's a good idea. Which one do you recommend? The Pairszone?
Please sign the memo on the bottom and keep your money and memo.
Well, I don't think I can manage with it.
What kind of case do you have?
Is something wrong with me?
Are you sending them abroad?
Room service, is there anything I can do for you?
No, that is all we need. If we have those things included, that is sufficient.
I'd rather wash the clothes.
It depends on traffic and distance, but it is reasonable.
Why are you going out with Andy?
I hate this part of school.
When I talk to Chinese, I always want to speak Chinese.
What especially about the night life are you going to miss?
He came in too fast, jammed on the breaks and spun out. We have a yellow flag and the pace car is making its way onto the track.
Hi, may I speak to Ryan, please?
Swimming in summer and skating in winter.What ' s your favorite sport?
Don't be so shy, Lucy.
Oh, that ’ s interesting, and but what kind of things?
It's dusty everywhere in the house. Can you help me do the housecleaning?
I was looking at my test score and think that it should be higher.
Hi, Julie. I was in your neighborhood and I'd like to drop by.
I don't know. It looks a bit red, but I'm sure it's nothing.
Thank you, Mr. Johnson.
Which type of gas do you want? Regular, Super, or Premium Unleaded?
That's marketing research... But what about getting started once you have an idea?
It must have been fun seeing those unusual animals and birds.
Just go and make a list for me, please.
I want to buy a car to facilitate my life. But I don't have enough money. Could you supply a loan to me?
My family move in just two weeks ago. We live on the fourth floor.
you bet it!
I think we can handle that. Let me confirm with my boss and touch base with you again tomorrow.
Good, where are you now?
Just so-so. Where did you get it?
I am calling to thank you for giving me the interview for the Sales Manager position yesterday
Every option you can choose will appear on the screen. That ’ s about it.
But that ’ s not the only thing... you know, he really doesn ’ t have the best work ethic, I ’ m constantly catching him on MSN and Facebook when he should be talking to clients.
To your offer of three hundred and twenty thousand dollars, the owners have counter-offered three hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars.
Would you take $ 12?
Good morning, Madam. What can I do for you?
Can you bring me something? I am totally hooked on this game!
We? Do you want to go with me?
I would like to make my plea.
I'm a little nervous!
As a matter of fact, I do. After she taught our class, she got married and moved to another city. Then, she started writing children ’ s book.
I don't know yet.
Good! Do you have any questions?
The chicken is also nice.
I wear size 32. This one looks nice. Where may I try it on?
They are very nice, you know.
You mean that you can them.
Hello. May I speak to David?
I would like to look at the leak. Will you be home this morning?
Yes, sir. I'll bring it over. Have you decided what you'd like, sir?
It's a feature film.
Dad, I have to do my homework.
Oh, you shouldn't. But thank you very much.
to be honest, I don't really care for either one.
Mitsubishi, HP, IBM and many other famous corporations.
Well, what about this two-bedroom apartment? The listing says it's right in the heart of the city, just steps from the metro.
How many kinds of secretaries work here?
May I know who's calling?
Yes. We can put it in our storage room.
I really want to stay a little longer, but I still have a meeting to attend. All in all, I am so impressed by your hospitality and your warm welcome. Thank you for the trouble you have taken.
Pork. Where's the meat counter?
how can I help you?
I don't want to go alone.
It's the newest 10 speed cycling mountain bike. These are really expensive!
I ’ m thinking something exciting but safer.
Mr.Chen, are you sure you're taking BA - 007 back to Tokyo?
See you around, Carl.
Compare with speaking, yes! But things are not good as you expecting!
Mr. Emory? I ’ d appreciate it if you would look over these letters before you leave today.
I did... I just hope I can implement all these great ideas that we shared.
I ’ m on the Highway 401, close to the Lipton Link.
Usually it's at least five days and four nights.
I'm totally vibing with this vegetarians.
Alright, what's your address?
Right. You're right. But she's just evil. Someone should drive a stake through her heart.
We have a three-shift system - that's three eight-hour shifts each weekday. We're shut at weekends. This week I'm on the early shift.
Hi. I want to check out. My room is 1005.
This is all your medicine. You need to take it four times a day for three days straight.
Sure. It is helpful to shorten the distance between you and the interviewer and create a lively atmosphere.
I wish it wasn't, but there is actually a lot of crime and prostitution around here.
By air. So my gift should be quite light. What can you suggest?
A new two-bedroom apartment, around 100 to 120 square meters, in the Sanlitun area.
Hello. I've been asked to come and see about something called L / C? What is it exactly?
Yeah. I like it. Hey, it looks like the food is ready.
Well, he had a jacked or a plage shirt. You know the kind of number jack wear.
Are you still coming to my place for dinner tomorrow night?
Could I order dinner?
Don ’ t worry about it, I ’ ll call my friend and have him take care of it. I can ’ t believe he was stalking you all these years. What a nut job!
Would you like the shapes square or round?
Take it easy. It’s no good worrying. You were on your last leg if you keep worrying in this way.
My goodness! She is thirty seconds faster than the world record in 5000 metres race.
No, that's not true.The White House is very big. And there are a lot of historical exhibits there.The tour will take us through many different rooms. I read about it in the guide.
What a coincidence! These pajamas would be perfect to take along on the honeymoon!
Uh... yeah. Hi! Is Susie there?
Dental clinic. This is Mr. Adams.
Please tell us the exact time when the big fire broke out.
Hey, Jenny. Would you like to go to dinner with me?
It'll only take a couple of minutes.
Here is your change and your receipt.Do you have goods unpaid on you, sir
I love the museums, too.
It's great!
I came to see my uncle. He lives in the next block.
What would my new duties be?
His name is Lin, L - I - N.
Well, we have all kinds of sports shoes.Could you tell me what kind of sport you usually do?
I'd like to order broadband internet for my laptop.
Well, it has got low mileage.The tires are in perfect condition and it's in excellent shape.
You would think it would, but it most likely won ’ t.
Is it a long run to the station?
Potato chips and French dressing.
Oh yes, I'm very interested in Chinese history so I ’ d like to visit the Summer Palace.
Have you been in America long, Hellen?
But I ’ m just in it for the money, right? How else am I going to be able to afford to keep taking Angela to the movies? Besides, I love the smell of gasoline, don ’ t you?
Not belong. You can use them as long as you work here. When you quit, you ’ ll have to return them to the company.
Get on, PLS. Where do you wanna go?
Look, my clothes are wet.
I prefer potatoes to eggplants.
I absolutely agree. It’s getting dark. We should finish our homework now.
What do you think is the role teacher should play in the classroom?
Take the escalator over there and turn left, you'll see the sign.
That radio's pretty loud. Could you turn it down, please?
I want an American breakfast with fried eggs, sunny side up.
Yes. I started this part-time job just three days ago. And my internship will last 1 week. I'm still a student now.
Who will be your supporter during your stay in the States?
How many people are on the board of directors?
I have no idea. Maybe I want to take a boat down the river.
I totally understand.
Hi! Yes, It’s been a long time. I ’ m really glad to see you.
Ok. Take the Underground ( the Circle line ) to High Street Kensington. Make sure you take the High Street Kensington exit.
It’s the one you like.
And then I made lunch.
Fine. Well, thanks for calling and letting me know you will be absent. I hope you feel better soon.
if you aren't thin, you're nobody.
Excuse me. Is this seat taken?
If you need baggage tags, they are found in the box on your right.
I won $ 10 in the lottery last month. Perhaps next time, I ’ ll be luckier and win the jackpot!
I feel exactly the same way with you.
What are you two doing in here?
No so good. I broke traffic regulations yesterday and I got a ticket.
Oh, really? No wonder that she looks quite depressed recently.
There isn't much rice, is there?
Unfortunately, at the present time we take only MasterCard or VISA.
It do look beautiful. Well. I think I'll take it.Now do you have any racket covers?
Ok, I'll phone the customer right away.Do you want to pick him up at our office?
You'll be happy to know that it's open 24/7.
I hope that I'll see you there.
Yes. Could you tell many balance? Here's account number.
What? I was just having a friendly conversation with the lady here...
And the necklace, it matches your dress marvelously.
We should also cook a couple dozen hot dogs and kebabs.
Yes, I'm from Taiwan. I never heard of a gas station where you fill up your own car.
I'd love to. Do you often come here to dance?
I'm Greg Wu, Head of Consultancy. I see that you'd like a credit check done for your company. Is that right?
Many.Most of the cities in the southern part of the United States are hot all year.
Lin's office supplies. How may I direct your call?
Yes.Will you take me to the station?
dying can be very expensive nowadays! What ’ s he going to do with it?
I like watching comedies, like ' Boat '. Do you like watching comedies too?
I fell asleep very late. It was almost two o ’ clock in the morning when I finally fell asleep.
Great! I ’ ll just sit here and wait.
Oh, yes.Ellie was playing games all day yesterday.By the way, Alice, when's your birthday?
It is in the park downtown.
Yes, blue Cheese please.
Hey, Terry, have all the players got here?
No, but we do have to pay 9 months rent in 6 months, so for the first 6 months we pay 1/2 month's rent each month.
I have a parking ticket to pay for.
Yes. I do want to take some additional credits this year to get a minor in psychology.
Mom, happy Mother's Day! A necklace for you.
Hello. I'm thinking about watching a Chinese traditional opera with a foreign girl. What's on this weekend?
That's one. Another is the lack of personal property. Everything you have, from toys to clothes, is used by your brothers and sisters. Especially clothes. Three quarters of my wardrobe are hand-me-downs.
I'm going to let Bob know about the merger.
Poor fellow! What's the date today, buddy?
I need to make six copies of this report for the Board Meeting tomorrow. Ring Office Supplies and ask if they have any in stock. If they can't deliver this afternoon, I'll go and collect it.
Is our destination the amusement park?
Maybe next weekend. She only mentioned this before she left.
What do you have in the bag, Mr. Lee?
I'll pay for it with a check.
Okay then. I think we will all meet outside?
Did you get any honors or awards at your university?
Oh, that's no problem. Just give me a moment, and I can check.Judy Liao. Let's see... Yes, here it is. Judy Liao. We have received your resume.
Nothing rang a bell.
Really? Then what do you do with it?
It's three different flavors mixed together. Chocolate, strawberry and something green with candied fruit.
I want some kind of dessert.
Okay. I'll do it if you're positive that this is what you want.
Actually, yes. Could you show me how to use my key card?
It’s plenty of time yet. The railway station is very close. It won ’ t take your twenty minutes to get there.
Do you live together?
I am hurrying.
What kind of account do you want to open?
But, ladies, the room ’ s not yet ready. It will be delay about half an hour. Perhaps you can fill the registration form first. And rest at the lobby for a while. We ’ ll let you know when the room ‘ s ready.
Yes, Madam. It is at the entrance.
Hawaii? My dream honeymoon destination?
I'll get you for that comments, George.
It cost about thirty. Most games cost about that much.
By the way, can you tell me what the date it is today, and what day it is, please?
I absolutely agree with you.
No, I'm Korean. Where are you from?
Good afternoon. I am Mr. Brown, the Import manager of Atlantic Industries Ltd, Sidney, Australia. This is my card.
Come on, Tara. Let ’ s go up to the window and buy two tickets. The movie is starting in a few minutes.
How was the weather?
Well, I think the color is a little too bright.
Yes, it has great curb appeal.
What do you do there?
Weren't you taught that yellow means slow down, not speed up?
Are you ready to go the concert?
why don't you just get black? Black suits are always fashionable and can be worn for anything — a funeral, a wedding, a job interview — anything!
I find it there is no meaning in living this world.
Yes. Your ticket is valid for three days.
Oh, maybe I can take the bus or even rent a car.
Well, I have just missed the place. How long does the tour take?
My mother works in a company as an accountant.
What kind of books are you interested in?
I'd like to order a bottle of champagne, lobster tail, and filet mignon, medium rare.
I like that idea.
Jessie, I ’ m afraid I can ’ t come back home for dinner tonight.
I had my first cigarette when I was seventeen.
Then your salary must be high.
I think TV is also an effective media, as long as our company is willing to spend more money on it.
What is it that you need to do?
We mostly handle office furniture. We supply first-class furniture. Here are our catalogue and the pattern books. You can see the material is superior and with all the latest styles. Can you give me some idea about what you're looking for?
Just what gives you the right...?
Everything's gone wrong.
Well, I don ’ t know. I think I ’ ll shop around.
Why? What's wrong with it?
Zina, I hope you're not scheming to make Elvin look bad.
I ’ d like to speak to marked Baker, please.
Thanks. Actually, I was really surprised. I mean there were a lot of qualified people out there.
How foolish he is. The girl is inviting. She often makes a pass at boys.
We ’ Ve got a lot of work to do now, but take your time over this project. We don ’ t want to make any mistakes.
Fine, just fine.Thanks.
But I think they're dull, aren't they?
Do you want one?
Let me see them. Yes. There ’ re ok.
Here you are. Can you put the bread in a separate bag?
We don't think so. Casual days are becoming more common, and we believe employees can maintain a professional image without wearing uncomfortable clothes.
no, but I was in quite a few tornados when I was younger.
It’s pretty bad.
That is to say, 10000 sets for the one of white-collar and 5000 for men's jackets.
I am in Nanjing University. I am a junior.
You're looking rather pale, why?
Ah, that's all part of the fun. What do you think of these shorts?
This color is becoming to you, too.
No, but we ’ ll provide you with good businesses at the end of the year.
It’s freezing in here! Can I turn up the heat?
The bathroom looks lovely. Did you redecorate it yourself or did you get someone in to do it for you?
What day is today? Tuesday?
Congratulations! You've just won a car!
Have a nice day and thanks you for calling Dutton Hotels.
Yes, That's him over there - the taller, handsome one. Would you let me introduce you?
You like this china tea set, don't you?
Go and look in the kitchen.
I believe it happened last night.
Good morning I'd like to mail this box of books to Taiwan.
I am not sure yet.
We make a counter-offer to you of $ 150 per metric ton F. O. B. London.
my new phone are so woke.
It’s hard to believer you ’ re really retiring. What are you going to do with yourself?
Great! Thank you!
Is your boss Chinese?
They do give bonuses at the end of the year for the employees with highest productivity numbers, but frankly, it's not much of an incentive. They give us a bonus of ten dollars.
We want to look at some of your products.
I understand. We propose a structured deal. For the first six months, we get a discount of 20 % and the next six months we get 15 %.
Just put it on the table, please.
now I see, you must be suffering from discomgoogolation.
Because of work, I can only go look at houses on the weekend.
See you tonight.
I didn ’ t even think about that.
Yes, that's in the past. Maybe I need to go to my psychologist for help.
That's good advice. Have you ever tried taking vitamins?
Oh, the baggage rack is full. Put them under the seat for the time being.
No, thanks. I've decided to give up smoking.
It looks great.
I strongly recommend it. As an international enterprise, it produces high quality household appliances.
No. Forget about it. It's not important.
Um... do you think we can make a pit stop?
Alright, the puck is back in play now. Pavel Bure is on a breakaway! He is flying down the ice! The defenders can ’ t keep up! Slap shot! He scores
I work in a publishing house. How about you?
Ok, thank you.Goodbye.
How about seven?
I'll give you five more minutes, then I'm going on without you!
I personally would never want to have one, but I think that since a pregnancy can affect a woman's entire life, she should have the right to decide for herself.
No, I just watched Supergirl, and it began too late in the night. I was too excited to get asleep after one o'clock.
Pleased to meet you. My name is Alice. Did you just move in next door?
Car trouble center. How may I help you?
Well, if I were you, I'd go on studying.
Okay. What ’ s your account number?
Oh, SHUT UP!
The children always make themselves in danger. I always have my heart in my mouth with them.
Wow. I really like California... the weather there is much better than the East Coast.
I use a special dressing and homemade catsup.
What time does the 7:59 get to London?
Take it easy, madam. And speak slowly. May I have your name first?
OK, pick up some cured meats to go with the wine. Maybe a pound of polish sausages, ham, liverwurst, salami and any other cold cuts that are on sale. I think I saw a promotion for pastrami. Also get s
no, most children in America only go to school Monday through Friday.
Sounds like a pyramid scheme. Have you heard of those before?
Can I print it?
OK. See you later.
Hmm, hard to say, wait, yes, it looks like you will do well in business, and your ambition will help you a lot, but...
Yes, wasn't it funny?
I didn't pass the English exam. How to learn English well? Can you give me some suggestions?
Well, what about violet? It means the eternal beauty.
So he will make a perfect husband. Make sure you will be here next Monday.
It’s very nice to meet you.
I hope we can make great progress in this new semester.
Are you going to come home late tonight?
It's a coupe with a vinyl roof.
A bit of both. Some cousins, aunts and uncles will be there, but also some friends from the neighborhood.
What time is it anyway?
Really? Thank you. I am thinking the same thing about you.
I would like to transfer $ 200.
OK, I will keep this position for you for one week.
Tom, Christmas Day is coming. Merry Christmas to you.
What do you mean a loud train?
They let you go, didn ’ t they?
It says it's located in the suburbs.
Middle-aged means in the middle, Ethel, middle of life. People don't live to a hundred and fifty.
Silence is golden. Just don't say anything ; otherwise the situation could become worse. I do, however, accept constructive criticism.
Whatever, I ’ m going next door I heard Mrs. Robinson is giving out big bags of M & Ms!
I get along well with people, and I enjoy working with others.
That's convenient.
yes. I'll just have my assistant look over these quickly and then we'll move on to the next step. Did you want to open up a checking account and a savings account?
Welcome to IBA. What can we do for you today?
Do you hike or fish on your trips?
Well, my dear. I didn't believe either. But got it straight form the horse's mouth. David called me this morning.
that sounds kind of boring. Oh, look. They're dimming the lights. I think we should get back to our seats for the second half of the play.
I think that will do. Let's go talk to the tailor about getting it made.
It’s absolutely incredible. I ’ ll take it.
Make it 4
Premium or regular?
On the Internet? I've never heard of it.
That ’ s great!
No. Stay away from her.
That doesn't sound good.
You are very kind to say so. Thank you. Do you think tomorrow morning would suit him?
How would you describe your relationship with your last two supervisors?
Would you like anything else with your package?
Why? I never saw you eat so much before.
That sounds like fun. Where will it be?
So you get drunk every day?
We have only one mid-size car left.
How much are you planning on raising?
Okay. I'll see you then.
Well, we're really interested in placing an order under negotiation. We can start the negotiations as soon as you want.
Which is more interesting to you, flying kites or going roller-skating?
I am calling to ask about the position of an usher.
I use several services. Of course, I deposit and withdraw money quite often. I often use my ATM card to take money out of my current account. I use my bank to exchange money from one currency to another. I often travel abroad, you see.
Do you have many friends?
So how to apply for a job on the Internet?
You can bring us our salads when you bring us our entree.
Whew! That sounds more like my price range. I'll take two liangs.
For the substantial regular customers, we offer 5 % commissions.
Good morning. I ’ m from the New York book review. Could I ask you some questions about your latest book?
Do you know something about the payment we give to our employees?
Yes, it is really a good deal. $ 1,000 discount. I've never seen a sale as good as this one.
That's great...
I don't know how much we can trust them. Do you have any ideas?
Ah, some products are successful at home, but not be popular overseas.
Well, the dorm ’ s too noisy to study in, and I guess this place is too quiet.
I've just been working really hard.
I would like to see Dr. Jones.
Excuse me, how long does it take to get there?
Good afternoon, Mr. Yang. I'm Jill, Mr. Smith's secretary. Would you like to look around the factory first?
You guessed it. She says we have to get married on January 2nd, or we'll have bad luck.
You can stay, but you might think about looking for a less expensive living arrangement if you are having trouble making the payments.
Get her on the phone, please. I need to clarify this.
That scientists was lit!
It’s only the day when the world ’ s biggest sporting event is kicking off.
Thank you. If you have any problems, just call.
Ok, let's go.
What's in your bags?
Well, if I total that like this and divide by this number, I get this total. Do you agree?
The minimum is 100 RIB, and the maximum is 500,000 RIB.
Congratulations, Vivian. You won the grand prize, again.
We still need to find an armoire and a dresser.
Oh, the basketball team from No. 1 College? I know they're a tough team.
I'll stay at home and have a complete rest.
I am dead tired and I can't walk any further.
Television is undoubtedly a great invention, but one of the main criticisms of it is that people just aren't selective enough. Lesley, got a television. how do you pick out the sorts ofprogrammes you want to watch?
It wasn't all that great.
But there's quite a lot of rumors about it.
Considering our good relationship and our future business, we give you four percent. That's the best we can do. We can't go any further. What would you say to it?
Well, thank you for your information. What ’ s the name of that restaurant again?
Josh and I were just on our way back home from the beach and thought we'd drop by.
Sounds nice. I'll have that please.
Why are you walking to and fro in the room?
No. That is something only true Catholics do.So if you come to the church as a visitor, you only listen to the service.But you shouldn't go up to the altar for the bread and wine.Only after someone joins the church, then they go up for the Eucharist.
Hey Mark. What are you doing?
Yes. I really need to have a good rest.
Yes, I'll make a note of that and ask Mr.Li to confirm.
Yes, I know. He's really on the A-list.
Wow, with such a big change.We won't have the same name?
I see. How is it paid? I mean, what payment methods are possible?
I want to help with both.
Do you know what kind of vegetable you want to eat?
Sure, I will. What about the minutes? Do you think I am responsible for that too?
Hey, look, there is a circus show over there.
Fine. I ’ ll take the compact.
I didn't know you liked bird watching.
I thought all cars needed regular servicing on a yearly basis.
May I speak to Mr.Huang, please?
So, what do you think about the place? Are you glad that you moved in?
Would you turn off the tap?
No. Did you want to go do something?
Good, I ' Ve get a two-pin plug.
Gui yuan are lucky, too! If you eat them, you'll have a very sweet life!
I may just get some chips.
Yes, but I couldn't help it. I was late getting off work for a start, and then I missed the bus. The bus I did catch got caught in a traffic jam. It was one thing after another.
I've got a headache and a cough.
You need to stop smoking, and make sure that you get 30 minutes of exercise every day.
Good morning, Sir. Where are you going?
What ’ s the charge for the tailoring?
It’s great. Although his father didn ’ t agree with that, Tom went through with it.
I want to find information on the American Civil War.
Supposing we agreed to your price, what payment terms could you offer us?
Yes. I ’ Ve finished making the birthday cake and I ’ Ve put all the things on the table. Did you find the party hats?
so, how did you become interested in it?
Actually, I want to buy some traveler's checks.
Two muffins and a cup of coffee.Will it take long?
There are three people in my family.
What do you do in your spare times?
I didn't know that. I thought that you were happy together.
I especially love the night air when it rains.
What sort of job would you like to take?
Yes, it does. Domestic enterprises of different ownerships enjoy equal rights for the non-discrimination principle grants equal rights to enterprises, regardless of their nationality and ownership. I have found that although changes of China's economic policies are numerous, these changes are largely based on the most important economic principle ot TO agreement-non-discrimination principle. Such an understanding of principle of the changes may help us not only to have a good insight into the changes but also to foresee the tendency of the new changes of China's economic policies.
That's good for me, but do you think you'll be back by then? I'd really like to see you.
Sam, I never like Haunted Houses.When I was a kid, I didn't like them. when I was in high school, I didn't like them.when I was in college, I didn't like them. So why should I like them now?
I ’ m not going to accept this excuse. You ’ re using these small technical glitches as a crutch and trying to rationalize the fact that you ’ Ve missed your deadline. Look, we have standards and I expect you to live up to those standards. No more phoney cases. If you ’ re in over your head, you tell me. No more missed deadlines. Now, I want that data on my desk by nine am!
How dare you speak to me like this.
I need to pick up a flyer with the information about the house on it.
A private vehicle? No, thanks, I won't need one.
Yes, I have a friend who lives in that neighborhood.
Don ’ t pretend you are a good God.
Usually it's the older kids going around playing Halloween, like punching the pumpkins left outside people's doors or - - someone's tree. They usually do it late at night after little kids go
I'm looking for an MP - 3 player. Which brand is of the highest quality?
You are very lucky to have such a nice family.
The pleasure is mine.Happy birthday and many happy returns of the day!
Did she give up her decision to marry Dick?
My pleasure. Release the parking brake, and we're almost ready to go.
Sounds not good. I won't take it.
As I have some administrative experience from my last job, I may use my organizational and planning skills in the future.
Excuse me, What time does the next bus for Boston leave?
Well, as far as I can tell, we qualify.
The gown is quite expensive, believe me.
How long has your tooth been bothering you?
You go straight on at the lights, but just past the restaurant building there is a small road to your right.
It tastes like crankcase oil, but delicious.
It seems you two bring out the best of one another.
Really? Oh, thank Goodness!
How much is the admission fee for a student?
Yes, perhaps. Chinese usually don ’ t notice that sort of thing. Maybe It’s quite natural to us.
Some people say he's from New York.
I have to admit it's easier said than done.
Good idea! We'll have to get right on it.
Yes, I would like a roast duck and my friend wants steaks.
You can knock off another 2 % for that.
We can do an allergy test, and later I can send you for an asthma test.
Tell me all about it.
All right, ma'am. Need any help with your luggage?
I don't, but I couldn't find anything to eat in the refrigerator.
Yes, I'd like to check in, please. M y name is Peter Wang. I have a reservation for three nights.
I ’ m very sorry I can ’ t.
What shall I call him?
Is the arresting officer here?
What are we going to do?
Don't you think It’s too noisy here? The rock music! I can hardly bear it.
I'm pleased to meet you, Mrs. Green. My name is Myra. I work in Beijing Institute of Technology. I came here to meet you.
Is this the front desk?
That ’ s true. If something happened to my husband, I might lose everything. Both of us have to work to keep our home, car, and our children ’ s education. I can ’ t afford that by myself.
So Peter, do you have a favorite comedy?
I think so. Bye!
OK. Wait a minute, please. And the sugar is right over there.
Some companies will pay part of the phone bills for the employees. Will this company do so?
And I suppose sitting at the desk all day at the office doesn't help.
I can see that. But why are you reading advertisements for houses for sale? Are you buying a house?
How long does it take to get here from your home?
On the rocks, please.
There really isn ’ t anything else to do right now except wait. You are already pre-qualified for your loan.
Is it on Xinhua street?
Is that why my knees have felt sore after every time I've ridden my bike?
I really hope that you didn't expect me to pay you for this.
Nine is a great time to get started. I'll see you on Saturday!
How different are these rates?
It's nothing. It's not the first time anyway.
Thanks. Do you have an appointment, Ms. Wang?
Sounds like fun.
Yes, sir. I'll get them for you right away. Would you please sign this bill first? Thank you, sir.
Hello, I set up my laundry yesterday, are they being ready?
I went a global warming rally. It was fantastic to be around so many people who care about the environment.
Alright, let's go then. How many tickets do we have left?
How can you keep in touch with your aunt in America?
You will be busier, right?
Yes, it's a way to commemorate a great ancient romantic poet, and the race is a symbol of the attempt to save him.
What can we do next after locating the place?
( while driving ) Are you in a hurry?
And he ’ s bright and intelligent. I ’ m sure he can pass the university entrance exam.
Hi, Lucy, are you free to talk?
I'm exhausted. My new exercise is so hard.
It is hard to come by in life that you experience this kind of ' comfortable '
You misunderstood me. Clothes which are too colorful or too expensive suggest that you do not understand what behavior is appropriate for the job, or that you are snobbish or frivolous.
Oh, I'm fine, thanks. I'm super busy with work actually. Did you hear about the Lawson contract?
I guess you're right. But I still prefer to have no child.
The thing that I find most surprising is that most of the world is covered with water. Compared to the oceans, most countries are tiny.
You, too! See you tomorrow.
Someone ’ s told me behind closed door that he is very hot-tempered.
Which brand do you prefer?
More or less. How well do you understand Mr. Wang, your Chinese teacher?
Could I speak to Mary, please?
That's right. That's the best way to have control over yourself.You say to yourself. Tonight I will gamble fifty dollars. Only fifty dollars. No more.If you follow the rule, you can't lose more than fifty dollars.
All right, but let me know your decision before the end of the day.
Does this dress look OK on me?
When you reserve a booth, you should check who your neighbors will be.Don ' t you think?
Yeah, you look a little shaky. And pale. You seriously need some time in the sun.
Excellent Cleaner ’ s.May I help you?
Do boys and girls go to school together?
How many years have you held your current position?
Let me help you with that. I don't want you to hurt your back.
I can't bear eating less.
By the way, please forward my mail to this address.
In that case, I would suggest our own hotel restaurant. The chef, the food, and the service are outstanding.
there must have been some good news in the newspaper. I can ’ t believe that none of the news stories make you happy or excited.
No wonder people say
You know a good product will always sell! Would you mind waiting for a while, we'll get it right away.
Shall we go downtown for a movie this Friday evening?
Sure, what do you need to do there?
Is it drip-dry?
Very well. Do you have any bags to check?
If I tell you who did, will you release me?
Oh, no, France isn't an island. It is located in the western part of the European continent. But France does have many fine harbors and port cities on its southern and western coasts. Does Japan have good harbors?
I'm about to be swept away by millions of cockroaches!
Is skating interesting?
Could you please get me a takeaway? I have some urgent work to finish. So I don ’ t have enough time to go out for lunch.
If we're running at full capacity, it's 160,000 tonnes per annum.
Well, we'll certainly miss you here.
I charge $ 150 an hour.
Thanks.Miss Zhang.
Can I get a discount coupon if I buy these goods?
do me a favor, and take a taxi. It'd make me feel a lot better.
That sounds interesting.
Mary and Tom are breaking up.
How much do you pay wholesale for your products?
I need something to wash this down. Is there any juice in the fridge?
No, not yet.
What do you suggest? I can ’ t afford to quit my job until I get a new one.
Oh, so heavy! What have you put in here?
Yes, Mr. Emory. Thank you.
I'm never catching the bus with you again.
Will you introduce me to the new colleague?
25 yuan by air, 13 yuan by sea.
Thx.Bye for now. Kisssssssssss.
I've got it. I like the feeling of stepping on the ice.
Here are your pancakes, madam.
That's splendid. Can you take three pictures of me with them?
No, she also died when my step-brother was little. My mother and my step-father met each other shortly after my father died and became good friends. They ended up getting married a few years later.
Wow! I didn't notice the time.It ' s almost noon. I have to get home.
Let's ask someone else.
I wish to make it clear at the outset that this matter of labels is entirely our problem.
Yes, but the problem is that I have a Savings Account with you, and I need to take some money from that. Do I really have to give 90 days notice if I want my money?
Oh, that is wonderful. Congratulations!
You are absolutely right.
My parents used to love to play checkers and dominoes. We used to have family tournaments every weekend.
What problem are you having?
You need to be very careful to send that form in every two weeks if you want to get paid.
How long does the tour take?
Excuse me. which way is to the post office?
He is in a blue sportswear and a white sportsshoes. About 1.4 meters.
This PC is top of the line and I guarantee it will never freeze! If it does, we ’ ll give you your money back!
Where do your parents live?
Now you don't have the butterflies in your stomach, do you?
Did you have anything particular in mind?
I really like those. How much did they cost?
Okay, let's go see a movie.
Right. Well, the benefits are a little different. With our Corporate Card you can use it for agency collection and payment.
thanks. Does the bar have a signature drink?
Hi, Sarah. The results of questionnaire have come out. We need to discuss it together then write a research report.
Yes. I'm coming to confirm my ticket.
Just one more thing. A school called me this morning to see if I could teach a few classes this weekend and I don't know what to do.
I think that would be nice.
Good afternoon, sir. Gan I help you?
I recommend you ride a bike instead of commuting by bus. It may offer you many benefits. First, it's good for your health. I'm afraid it's not necessary for me to further elaborate. While lots of people spend time like an hour each morning exercising, a bike ride to work not only builds you up, but also makes full use of time. You might as well sleep out for a longer hour.
Do you know any places?
Not at all, it's reasonable.
I've been talking to WebTracker. I'm thinking of jumping ship.
Have we handed out all the water?
Has anyone ever told you that you had high blood pressure?
Please give me a few minute to calculate... Our asking price should be about $ 100 per unit with an order of 100. Is that price acceptable to you?
"Well, as I was saying, they showed each other what they had decided to bring. The Englishman had brought some water. "" If we get thirsty, we'll have something to drink, "" he said. The Scotsman brought a map. "" If we get lost, we'll be able to find our way. "" The Irishman had brought a car door."
Your knowledge of English is really surprising.
Right, here you are.
Hello, Could you please connect me to Mr. Cook's office? It is on Line Three.
Have you ever thought about your ideal home?
I ’ m afraid that I can ’ t. They were in fashion last year and the year before last. But they ’ re not in fashion this year. These shoes are in fashion now.
And pancakes for you, sir.
Oh right... you know, my friend Eric is a DJ. Maybe he would like to play with us.
And special TV programs, fire crackers and the games to play.
Yes. Applications will be accepted for this position until next Friday.
What ’ s the fee?
If necessary, I can stay here to accompany you until you are discharged.
OK, please take a seat. Look at here. Head up. Done.
If you are hired, how long do you plan to stay with us?
I also need to check out this video.
Well I don ’ t think so. I don ’ t like it at all!
One family skeleton of my family was that my younger brother has an axe to grind.
Good. Now just complete this form.
I agree. It's definitely a product of wisdom. Well, why were those small animal sculptures placed on the tops of the buildings?
Ok, I will. You have said that many times.
No. do you have a car?
Right Rebecca. Now I see that after graduating from University your first job was...
Here is it.
Let's go to the Latin Club. I think they will have a Brazilian band there this weekend. Maybe it's Friday night.
And here is your aspirin. What else did you say you want?
I have lemonade, iced tea, and mango juice.
They will need to know where you worked and how much money you made.
You like it. Well, I'll gather in for you.
I plan to repay it within 2 years. And the interest?
It's really good.
Just Mr. White.
You ’ Ve given me very valuable advice and I have more confidence in myself now. Thank you very much.
The system of public schools is fairly uniform everywhere throughout the United States.
How about at the subway entrance.
I've been with this firm for 26 years and I'd hate to see it go down the drain due to poor leadership skills.
How are you going to catch up?
I'm sorry to hear that. I'm afraid it is often the case during the peak hours. Shall I ask them to call you when the line is free?
What kind of food do you serve?
Sure. Here is your receipt and you can draw your tax paid for those goods at customs.
No, you have to take care of the insurance. But we are willing to pay the half transport. Can you accept that?
Okay, let me make sure I got that
Not yet. I'm hoping we'll be able to find something cheap once all the students leave the city for the summer.
Yes, Mr. Miller. We'll use the conference room on the third floor for the meeting.
Yes, I will move on to XYZ Company.
I haven't ever cared for that myself.
Well, I collect beer mats. I ’ m not sure that counts, though.
Well, it'd be foolish to call the police. He probably just went away overnight.
do you prefer brandy or ports.
I don't think so. Did you ever go and look at your stamp?
That's a relief! I was a little worried about it ; I left England in a bit of a hurry.
Can we bring drinks by ourselves?
I'm very impressed.
For the night of April 18th, for one night.
Sorry about the inconvenience, you look so young. I had make sure you are over 21 years old.
I've never gone to camp. What do you do there?
Are you going grocery shopping today?
Definitely. Oh, there's Mr. Campbell. Driver, can you stop here please?
I also need three pounds of chicken breasts.
Yes, all our rooms have complimentary wireless Internet.
What's wrong with the TV? It isn't clear and the color's not right.
Well, it's about this woman who got murdered because she discovered some company secrets about the cosmetics company she worked for. But then she got reincarnated as a cat.
That's trail mix!
I want to think about it for some time.
Actually, I haven ’ t had a pizza for a while. Let ’ s do that then.
Okay, I ’ ll ask my plumber to come by and fix it today. What else?
Would you like me to help you on your new project?
As in English, Chinese also has some lucky numbers. The number 9 stands for perpetuity in Chinese.
She's terribly sorry about that. She had to leave the office suddenly and won't be able to return until next week. She hopes you understand.
I'll see. I will if I can but I won't promise.
What symptoms does he have?
Here you are.It ' s very attractive.
Visit customers, dispatch consignments and things like that.
Do you think I should buy this now and bring it with us?
Yes, I liked math in school.
Thank you for your inviting me. See you then. Bye Tom.
Do you mind if I ask you to practice speaking English with me?
My boss promised to pay me double time.
I'm sorry. I thought you wouldn't come back so early.
Yeah. He ’ s older, so he doesn ’ t slam, as much as he did when he was younger, but when he does, It’s still amazing.
I guess we have covered all the stuff that we need to discuss and it's time to say goodbye.
Actually, many jobs are filled by people who select vacancies from the display boards there.
OK, I see. Dear Daniel, please come to the broadcasting station when you've heard this, your mother is waiting for you. If other tourists see a boy in a blue sportswear and a pair of white sportsshoes, 1.4 meters, please ask him to go to the broadcasting station. Thank you!
Have you been getting enough sleep lately?
It's better for you.
Jeez... I didn ’ t realize a single bedroom apartment went for so much these days.
Has it been that long?
That sounds good. What's the charge?
You just need more exercise.
Hi, Kenny. Let's go for a drink.
Why don't we do that anymore?
Why did you ask that? Do you want to buy the used goods?
Mike's Mechanics. Can I help you?
To have a combination of technical and business knowledge and to be very results-oriented. My past record shows that I have those qualities and more. Because of my business acumen and technical know-how, the teams I have managed accomplished outstanding results, including booking more than $ 50 million in online revenue.
That ’ s what my records show.
I'm going on a cruise this summer.
I want it to cool down some.
David, have you watched the 82nd Oscar Awards Ceremony? Avatar got the Award of Visual Effect. The movie sounds great!
I noticed there ’ s a jam a few blocks away.
That's the beauty of the service ; they can deal with everything, with total security.
Yeah. I shouldn't stress about this anymore. It's not like I can do anything about it.
Bye! See you on Saturday evening.
Yes, but that doesn't include cable. It's for cleaning and trash removal. You just leave your trash outside your door.
Oh! My mouth is on fire!
ok, what unusual food do you want to try?
Yes. I can lend you some.
Everything sounds great then! I'll meet you back here on Friday to discuss the details.
Yes. We keep finding problems when testing the sound boards.
No, really, I think you'd like it. I adapted to it right off the bat.
Yes, that would work out better.
I am looking for a newspaper article.
Thank you. By the way, what shall we do with the plates when we finish our meal?
Then when is the earliest we can expect shipment?
Nice to meet you too! I am Peter Smith.
They usually taste sweet, but they remind me of an orange.
Oh, I don't know. Of course, gasoline costs a lot these days.
Are you writing a book now?
I won't, mom.
Recently it's been pretty good, actually.
What kind of drink do you want with those meals?
I find it incredible how millions of years of volcanic activity have created mountains thousands of metres tall.
Have you tried other companies?
My parents are already here. My brother and nephew are arriving on Monday.
This is a Porsche!
Exactly. Is it possible to have my overcoat dry-cleaned, too?
That's a good idea.Let ' s go!
I should say it is something we have never come across before.
I wish I could stay longer, but I must be going.
Tim, you are too good for me. You deserve someone who can make you smile and make you happy the way that you made me happy. Oh, I could say that I ’ ll be all you need, but that would be a lie. I know I ’ d only hurt you, I know I ’ d only make you cry.
In cash, please. Here you are.
No. It was that friend of yours, Melissa.Her and all her lousy country music Cds. Yecch!
Yogurt, because it has protein, vitamins and it is acidic. If you drink it everyday, your stomach will be more comfortable.
Well, I see. And what about the vacation in our company?
Tell me about Corollas.
Good idea. It is convenient and fast.
But couldn't you have done it when you felt better?
Twilight rates are 21 dollars.
Certainly. We can work them out for you.
Guess what I've brought for you.
Alright. Thank you. Yes, it seems to be working fine. Your total is $ 199.00, sign here, please.
that ’ s a great prize for a person who writes books! Have you ever won a prize before?
What would the roses cost me?
I want to find a book called Gone with the Wind.But I can't find it.
While seeing others going to work or continue their study, I didn't know what I would do.
Is there anything I can do?
When did you decide to become a vegetarian?
Let ’ s think realistically about what might happen. How much money do you have in your savings?
Sure.How about the brown one?
I'll have a diet coke, please.
Me too. We haven't seen each other for years.
The total amount is $ 185.
Really? Let me see.
I didn't mean to. It was an accident.
Ok, count me in.
The doctor has an opening at 10:30 tomorrow. I'll put you down for then.
I often eat fish and eggs.
Excuse me, I want to know what's your price per dozen for exercise books?
Is the right counter to check in for this flight?
And lightweight, too. It'll play for 20 hours on two AA batteries!
Don ’ t worry, we specialize in providing our customers a relaxed, pressure-free shopping environment. That stone is an amethyst. We have a range of beautiful amethyst pieces. Take a look at this bracelet. It’s 18K rose-gold, studded with amethyst and blue topaz. It’s a great statement piece.
Yes, absolutely. But this is for everyone's sake, so we should do it as needed.
I'd love to try it.but the equipment is expensive and it was still take a lot of practice.
Yes. They used to be joined at the hip.
That ’ s not a bad idea. Bet after all you should get some sound financial guarantee.
How much does it cost over there?
I would greatly appreciate that.
Thanks, good-bye!
I've just been working a lot.
We will consider the first part of the year, in your particular field, and your credit rating can be no less than class A, during that period.
I think that that would be a really good choice! Let's call and make a reservation.
What were your favorite subjects at school?
Let's go!
Many times. Except climbing, there are many attractions worth visiting.
Do you see the trend continuing over the next few months?
Well yes, but they are not allowed only in downtown areas. It's OK here. It would be difficult to ban customs that have thousands of years of tradition. The habit does bring kids joy and excitement so long as precautions are taken. Let's go out and set off firecrackers out there.
Well, I have the day off from work.
What happened before?
Hackers are smart, and they want people to know about it.
How many bottles have you got with you?
Does it say how much they are asking for this house?
Would you mind waiting a moment while we check it with the department concerned?
Oh, it's a beautiful city. I think you'll like it.
I think lifelong learning is the concept that it's never too soon or too late for learning
Yes. It's a traditional dish.
Don ’ t worry about how many papers there are. We are going to look at them one at a time.
Haha. April Fool's! Did you forget what day it is today?
I've been at this for two weeks now and nothing ’ s turned up.
We're thinking of ordering some special styles of summer clothes. We should be interested in your products if they are of the styles we want.
Hi I came in on flight 513. Everyone else took their luggage off the conveyor belt, but mine didn ’ t seem to be there.
Sure, sweetie.What are you doing?
Here is my phone number. If you need anyone to show you around, call me.
Isn't it just great! I just knew I'd win!
How was Elvin?
Yes, it did. It went off thirty minutes ago. You slept right through it. You're like a dead person while you sleep.
I see. What you need is one of our Petty Consumer Loans.
Of course, let me find one for you.
I know for sure that something is wrong!
Ok kids, here ’ sa beach ball and a Frisbee, a pail and a shovel. I want to see an impressive sandcastle by the time we leave. Don ’ t stray too far. Wait! Leave your sandals here or put on your wet shoes.
I'm always up for a drink. To tell you the truth, it's been quite stressful here too.
You ’ d better hurry up if you wanna a dorm room next September...
How's your new work, Carl?
I'll take the Citroen C2. What is the rate for the car per day?
You said it.Let ' s ask him to work in our bank.
talk to you later.
I have no choice. My mother is always very strict with me.
Maybe you'll think about this before you decide to run another light.
worse still, he is trying to avoid me these days.
I don't know. What do you want to eat?
You know you shouldn't say that at a time like this.
Yes, I think they might have gone to the same college or something like that. I'm not exactly sure how they know each other.
Thank you. Now how much do I owe you?
Yes, yes, we do. Right here.
It is a great place for a relaxing vacation.
I noticed that too. What are the people learning?
I'm afraid I don't. But I do know the price has gone up.
Well, one year would be fine, too. I ’ m not planning on leaving the area anytime soon.
Here you are. Thanks a lot.
You're got a point there.But do you think he's a little absent-minded?
l'm sorry. All the black of that size are sold out. Would you like a red one?
Not yet, I was busy getting that videographer who films stuff for the Net.
Is there anything that you ’ Ve done to your tooth that might have caused the pain?
Can short messages reach them?
Yes, I ’ d like to check three pieces.
No, I'm a nurse.
well, there is no doubt that many people have found jobs through the want ads in the newspaper.
Alex. It’s Nancy over in Marketing. I ’ Ve got some good news for you.
This is a sizable sum. Is there any reason you are closing your account with us Mr. Lee?
I ’ m catching the 9 fifteen train tomorrow morning.
perhaps you ’ Ve been working too hard. You do have a high-pressure job.
I have some medicine at home that I could take.
I'm terribly sorry, Rose.But I have to finish this paper by tomorrow or professor Martin will kill me.
Hold on, please.
Yes, they're fine. I suppose.the server might be down again.
no. please sit down.
Good morning, Kevin.
Mary, set your alarm clock for seven tomorrow morning.
I'm calling to tell you the shipment has arrived in good condition.
No, we ’ re changing all the cameras to eight megapixels. We were hoping that by making your company our sole supplier for cameras we could negotiate a better deal.
About two hours ago.
Good afternoon, how can I be of service today?
I think it's going to be a nice day.
O levels and A levels.
Nothing. Just that I don't care for these carrots.Hi, sis., I saw you buy some chocolate cakes. I am done with the main course. It's about time for some dessert.
Mysteries of the Pyramids. Didn't we watch this program last week?
We will visit the Statue of Liberty as scheduled.
I want to know your earliest available entry time.
Oh, I'll have a try.
Yes, one last thing
What room was the leak in?
I want a package that has the basic and movie channels.
Do you mind if I speak frankly?
Hi, excuse me. I am sorry to bug you, but do you know where the Royal Hotel is?
Wait a moment, please. Let me check it.
Sure. We have both skirts and trousers that would look well with the T-shirt. Look at this section.
No. You shouldn't drive like that.
She told me that peter and she has a quarrel last nigh, and she left this morning, bag and baggage.
Sorry, I overslept. My clock didn't go off this morning.
Good morning. I want to buy a lipstick for my wife because it is her birthday today.
That's free.
Do you intend to take it out on your departure?
Is it expensive to make out-of-state calls?
So then what happened?
Lucy, I ’ d like to fix the light in the corridor, it keeps flashing, which drives me crazy. Would you like to help me with the ladder?
No problem. Thank you for calling me.
Getting cheaper is not the only reason for their popularity.They come with a lot of inviting functions.
I am consistently impressed by the concert.
Montreal is more exciting. It has better shopping.The stores are cheaper and more interesting.
I will. Thank you.
Yeah, and they know exactly what the audiences have in mind. Everyone desires equal opportunities and a channel to climb up the social ladder all the way to the highest in society.
You mean, we can do many other things after the picnic, right?
At 6 o'clock.
Wait for a moment. Mr. Bush.this is your bill, please sign your name here
How many days do I need to finish the course?
Oh, The day after tomorrow is Christmas.
Aisle A is where you'll find all the produce.
I hope so. I'm in the process of applying for a credit card with you, and Ms Wang asked me to drop off these documents.
May, I don't see why they are great. They are just simple things.
My name's McDonald.
Really? I thought his wife couldn ’ t have a baby.
OK, then let's try to go this weekend. I should know if I can go by Friday. Is it OK if I call you then?
Who would you like to talk to?
Hello, Miao Ping. It's that time again ; I want to convert my salary. You know, it's so annoying. I wish my company could just pay me in RIB.
What is its national anthem?
I couldn ’ t believe it, either.
You should. Many Guiliners, especially the old and the young, will climb mountains here in the coming.
They're right over there, next to the dictionaries.
I'm going to need it for three days.
Oh, there are many uses and I'll explain them in detail a little later. First, I'd like to...
I'm sorry to have made you disappointed.
How long is this cell phone guaranteed?
You know how hard I try to quit, I've lost without you. I am mot let you go.
Yes, of course.Will you come with the receipt?
Luckily there is no such kind of ' grown-up ceremony ' any more.
Absolutely. That's the most important thing to take into consideration. I'm not too worried about the size of the flat.
No, I haven't, but I've seen several interesting advertisements in the paper.
She said she wanted to go Dutch in dating.
Well, talk to him, and let me know what happens, OK?
That'll cost me a fortune.
That's great ; my health club membership is about to expire.
How about your tongue? Does it still hurt?
I'm afraid it wasn't. And when the police get here, you will also see that it wasn't. But enough of this bickering. I'm going to go find a phone.Don ' t move that arm while I'm gone. Alright?
Football of course!
Please, Julia, I have made proposal to you five times. I really want to share the rest of my life with you.
We should probably think about going somewhere that isn't too far away. How about the countryside? There must be many interesting places, and we could enjoy the fresh air.
What's your favorite course, Daniel?
If a consumer complains about the quality of your products, what will you do?
China beat Brazil 3 to 0.
Thank you. Please keep this receipt.
Remember, no honking this time. The horn is only for emergencies!
The news said they should be fine.
I'm sorry, sir. But this is the self-service pump.
Well, I'll take five of the seventy cent ones, and those grapefruits sweet?
This is Chinese made.
Good morning. Could you tell me where I can find the Clothing Department?
When you smell them, they affect your nervous system.
hi, Mary! What do you like to do in your spare time?
I have no problem with 6 p. m.
Oh, so do I.
And I came up and asked to sit by you...
I'm sorry, but I have to go.
Sure. Should I check your radiator?
Thanks for your hospitality.
I ’ m afraid not, Bob. One of the major volcanoes in Mexico has erupted, causing major floods and landslides in the region. Meanwhile, Mexico ’ s coast has been hit by hurricane Liliana and officials say that all the seismic activity leads them to believe that a tsunami may hit Central America, affecting Honduras, Guatemala and Panama. That ’ s all the news we have for today, but stay tuned for updates on the six o ’ clock news. Back to you Bob.
Don't mention it. It was the least I could do.
Thanks.This is fun!
Don't give up so soon.
Yes. I enjoy my stay here.
Well, I need an economy ticket.
Yes. May I ask who's calling?
I don't want to do that to you, Karen.
Okay. Good night. See you at breakfast.
345 Lincoln Avenue. Oklahoma City.
Perfect! Couldn't be better.
Er, let me see. Romance, comedy, documentary, action, science fiction, cartoon and so on.
I didn't know that before.
You did? I thought you must feel right at home here as we get as many fast food restaurants as you do in America.
I know that, mom. But sometimes I'm just sad.
we ’ Ve thought about it, but my husband and I can ’ t afford it right now. The only thing we could afford would be living in the slums, which is something I don ’ t want to do.
They don't seem to have done much damage to the flat.
Oh man, I hate rejection. It really makes you feel terrible, especially when you really liked the person.
So, I don't have to pay for it?
I think I am who you are looking for. You have got to be Rubin.
You ran the stop sign. May I see your driver's licence, please?
What kind of salad do you want to make?
I'm actually in school right now.
You'd probably need a faster processor, to begin with. And you also need a more powerful hard disc, more memory and a faster modem. Do you have a CD-ROM drive?
Is all your baggage here?
Hello. I'm here to talk about my credit card. You see, I'm a corporate card holder and a personal card holder. I've had my personal credit card for ages, but my corporate one is new to me.
Where did you say she was?
But I like the small mountain village. The big town is noisy. How charming it is when walking along the hill!
May I know your full name?
I'll let you break the balls this time.
OK, first of all, can you turn the key in the ignition?
Did you have something on your mind? You look so concerned! Maybe I can help you.
I had a home inspection before, but didn ’ t really understand it.
How about the next flight-tomorrow at two o'clock?
Next class meeting.
Get used to it, Mary. I'm off hamburgers for good health. Most fast food is loaded with sodium.
At the end of this month.
Thank you for your hospitality, Leon. I had a wonderful time!
Of course not. I just thought the movie was... boring.
Excuse me sir.May I come in?
Yes, I'm afraid there is.
Then do you like any cheese to go with it?
She usually doesn't wear anything but a few drops of Chanel No. 5. But I'd like to buy her a new Fragrance.
I would like to make a suggestion then, sir.
At eight thirty.
What? Won't you have more drinks?
I had a sneaking suspicion about you, Eric, I think you've lost it.
Thank you for your payment.
I guess so. Would you mind if I checked my email quickly? I'm supposed to be getting an important email this evening from a client.
That's a dandy idea. Thank you for reminding me.
It seems that good planning for a family vacation is important to make sure everyone will be happy.
Work is work, whether It’s a part-time or temporary job or a full-time gig.
I'd like a Sprite.
Since we live in the same neighbourhood, maybe we can help each other from now on.
I hear that you've been to the Saikei Ski Resort for the weekend. Did you enjoy it?
Here is the number, and your name is on the waiting list.
Richard did, but I didn't. Of course, I told him I liked it.
OK, got it! Thank you so much. You have helped me a lot!
That's fine. We can supply all kinds of precision machine tools. Our products are much admired in the world market and enjoy a wide acceptance in modern industry.
Good morning.Mr.Green.My name is Helen.What can I do for you?
well, he'll definitely lose his license, pay a fine, and maybe even spend some time in jail.
Susan, I haven't seen you in the pub for a long time.
Can you book me a room with a bath for August 28?
May it be used as a sofa in the day and a bed during the night?
To a disco? Oh, no. You know I hate pop.
Well, the 4 x 6 is fine.
Excuse me, I wonder if you can help me.
have you ever had a dog?
Hello. Is Vanessa there?
well, in that case I guess maybe you can be more understanding. You shouldn't let a trivial thing like this stand in the way of your friendship. After all you can go to the beach anytime you want.
I'm confused. Why did he say that?
OK. I'd like some oranges. But they don't look quite ripe yet.
I understand. Rain does make it smell cleaner.
My last name is Foster. Thank you for the reservation.
Could you charge it to my credit card?
Son, you just go back to bed, and stop crying wolf.
If it's within the legal limit, I prefer to keep it.
Goodbye. Hope to see you again.
I'm most grateful.
It's fantastic.
Good morning, and welcome to our bank. What can I do for you today?
Hello, Alice. Would you like to go to the temple fair with me?
I would like to compliment you on your diligence.
Well, as I ’ Ve said, if your order is large enough, we ’ re ready to reduce our prices by 2 percent.
Thank you. The porter will show you to your room
You ’ re so lucky! Do you have to do many things before you leave?
Can you help me do an internet search?
Mr. Johnson ’ s office. Cindy speaking.
I don't know what his problem is.
No. I ’ m a little worried about security. You never know who ’ s trying to find out your codes and passwords. Aren ’ t you worry about that?
What's the cheapest way to go there?
Do you know how to get the bank account?
You see! Everything happens for a reason! We wouldn ’ t even have met if I hadn ’ t been in that car accident ten years ago!
Thank you, but I'm just browsing today.
Why don't you wash clothes at home?
Oh dad. You don't understand at all.
Just do your best and I am sure that you will see improvement.
yes. He said I'm his dream girl.
I couldn't keep from laughing throughout the whole movie.
Yes, what a nice dinner that was!
do you like cooking, Julia?
Absolutely. I've sorted out all the materials we need and sifted three great ways of marketing.
My Chinese friends told me that the Spring Festival is coming soon. Can you tell me something about it?
Do you believe in god?
Sally? She is a bachelor girl. She is an excellent designer. Many of the company's advertisements are her child trains.
Hello. I'd like to speak to Susan.
Extreme sports are only for a small minority of people. Several people from my university enjoy them, but most of us just watch. No one I know plays golf.
Would you like to live in the country? I ’ m not sure I ’ d like it.
At the moment it's 830.43 RIB for 100 USD, which is a pretty good rate.
Yeah, so are you planning on going?
How long do you have to be there?
So this would be your first automobile?
You want to throw me out over this?
Hey, let's arm wrestle!
What a lovely tapestry! Don't you think we could use one to decorate our room?
Can the Assistant Manager meet you instead?
Yes, but now we are fresh out of staff quarters.
My domicile place is Nanjing, too.
Hmm. ' You ’ Ve got mail. '
I took out a life insurance policy and made your mother the beneficiary.
No, nothing. Why?
Yes, we have insurance against old age, medical problems, unemployment, work injury and childbirth.
Cheers! And we are honored to have such an honored guest today. Mr. James, I hope we will meet somewhere in the near future.
I ’ m going to need your library card.
No problem. Here it is.
For my credit worthiness?
What did it say about you then?
Well, I'll have a glass of mineral water.
That smells great. I'll take one bottle, please.
It sounds easy when you say it like that. In reality, it's harder to make peace between countries.
Could you tell me what room had the leak?
I think neither your parents or mine would agree to such an idea.
Good. There is the information desk. How do we get to seventieth street, please?
I ’ m Rose Teller. I think I ’ Ve seen you somewhere before?
All right. Here's 40 dollars.
What, Hilary? I ’ m really in a hurry!
That one truly is a beautiful piece of work, isn't it?
Let's eat at the restaurant across the street from my apartment.
Give me a shot of whisky and soda.
I want to send some money to Hangzhou. Today, if possible.
A card index is very important in the filing system. It is a most helpful friend to a secretary, so it must be kept handy and up to date.
I want the best.My sister said good shoes are very important. For support. They support your feet.
Friday is great.
That's OK. I'll have a glass of water.
I really like the Jacuzzi bathtub in the bathroom.
What are you assigned to do?
I think it is confidence in himself and his products.
I understand. Thank you.
Finally. How long does the tour last?
I know what you mean. It's hard to find anything that's reasonable now.
Okay, I'll pick it up for you.
I think so ; hurry up and get off.
Yes. Is there anything you can give me to get rid of it, Doctor?
Will there be anything else?
I notice there's a jam a few blocks away.
Are they in school?
Good. I ’ m going to prescribe something stronger. It will make you feel drowsy, so you certainly should rest.
I can terminate my life insurance policy when I retire and use the money as a pension.
I go to the office by bus every day.
I see. Maybe I can offer you a credit note.
Melissa? I ’ d like to invite you to my wife ’ s birthday party.
What's your excuse this time?
Fine. I believe in Cindy's taste. Oh, what should I wear?
After the internal discussion, we have all agreed that you are the most suitable person for this position among all the candidates. So, today let ’ s talk about your expected salary and social benefits. What is your expected salary?
Let me pay for it. Where can I get a subway map?
I will have sole then.
No, no. I've got plenty left.
Hello. I'm leaving. Here is my key.
If you're in school, you can get a student pass.
Your 3.5 percent share is going to be worth at least a million.
Sure. Bake it forty-five minutes at 360 degrees.
I can never forget that. I bought you five candies, but I was so anxious that I forgot to give them to you. You didn't get them until we parted. Then they had already melted down for I held them the whole time.
Hi, what ’ re you reading?
Where did you work as a teacher before?
Can you speak any other languages?
Other than the employees, our boss Jack invited some friends of the company.
I never went to court.
I am getting to know your meaning.
Good luck and let me know if you need any help later on.
We'll make it except a jam. You know it's rush hour.
sure, but I don't drink much. So I don't know what to order.
Besides, It’s not difficult to learn yoga. In fact, I can teach you a move that ’ s supposed to help you fall asleep! You just have to sit down like this, bend over and breath in deeply.
I have lots of friends.
The savings will be worth the short wait. See you next weekend.
three parties? That's quite a lot. That must have been expensive!
Count me out. I can do without shills and snipers and turbo-bidders.
Just one. I noticed an item about flex-time.Is that a possibility for me?
I want you in bed, right now, so sweet dreams.
What is your argument?
This book is so good. I just can't put it down! It's called ' The Power of One '.
What should I do in the fair?
But I am not that someone. I can easily talk him into doing whatever I want him to do.
Tell me what you've been up to.
There's obviously a problem with your connection.
I began blogging when I first went to the US for my graduate strides.
That's very kind of you to say so. Let's try some after-dinner wines.
And Mr. Green will make another appointment when Mr. Wang comes back.
If your son starts to buy video tapes, he can't keep them very long.
I know that, Ma'am. But they would just raise the price of the units to cover their costs.Here in L. A., installation is charged separately.
Yes, It's really so beautiful with all the things covered by snow.
Why? You said my skirt was beautiful just now.
What a great idea.
The reason is that he once was bitten by a dog.
engineers have never disappointed me.
What about six?
Please. Thank you so much for stopping.
Where is the break room?
Ready for the big switch.
Yes, we've got a very tender new shipment from the mainland. It is a weekend special.
Which train do you want?
No, thanks. I will call back later.
The diagonal black and red stripes are really conservative though...
Didn't you bring his favorite toy?
No, not very much. He ’ s too ambitious and dishonest.
Excuse me, madam. Is this seat taken?
How are you going to help me?
B as in boy. You should get off at the last stop in Chinatown.
Can you describe their taste?
I'm more than happy having her in my class.
Yes ,. Do you mind I have a look at your computer?
Sounds good. I think I'll have the lamb for my main course. What does it come with?
I know. But things have changed. I guess I've settled down.
Rents are very high in downtown area.
It is unnecessary. I'll see you off at the airport.
You're welcome. Good luck, bye!
One minute. Oh, yes, here we are. You are flying economy class, aren ’ t you?
I am going to give you an end-of-the-unit test this Friday. Please be prepared for it.
Yes, there might be some food you have never eaten before.
I bought this circulator here yesterday but it doesn't work.
I want to go to Shanghai, but I also want to visit Hainan.
I look forward to more of the game.
Very good, sir. We will be expecting you next Monday, the 12th.
Yes, some of the spots charges separately.
Sure. What's the matter with you?
Just a couple things, here's a list.
Mistakes are just a lessons to learn from.
Well, you can buy him a pet iguana then.
Certainly. Can I have the name please?
I want to buy more books.
How long did it take you to get your driver's license?
And bring you homework with you, please.
Try this one. Same aluminum pan, but with a heat-resistant bamboo handle.
That would be nice. Let's call it a deal.
I go to bed, but I just can ’ t get comfortable enough to stay asleep.
Flight CA216 to Chengdu.
Looks like a lucky day for everyone.
Me too. If we don ’ t do something soon, It might be too late.
All right. Here's your passport. Welcome to Australia.
You ’ re lucky you start to learn it so easily. I learned English very late, and learned it all by myself. At that time we didn ’ t have a good English studying environment. I have to keep my dictionary on hand.
This question is a piece of cake. A Frenchman named Baron de Coubertin.
I realize that now. I will do that after a while.
48C. It's on your left hand side.
It is only a little pin stick. I am going to put a tourniquet on your arm to puff your veins up.
I would like to book a table for six tonight.
Many thanks for your presence.
Are you the loan officer of this bank?
Sure! You should do anything you can to improve your English.
No, I haven't began my preparations.
Hi, Is that David?
I'd like some toast and chicken wings.
Does it rain a lot in summer there?
Oh, I took up a new hobby.
S M I T H.
The bill was for my Master Card.
Your way does touch my heart.
Loving to look beautiful is women's nature. In fact, I am thinking about going to my favorite clothing shop today.
OK. Are you sure it's funny, though?
Good morning, Mr. Zhang.
Thanks a lot! I will definitely do that. Is there anything else?
Can you go wake up Cindy for me?
Did you hear what happened to Mike in Accounts?
Yes, I have one carton of cigarettes and a bottle of whiskey.
Their range of organic foods is very limited.
No, this is my first.
When should I take them?
No big deal. I'll do it for you.
I'd like to have a steak sandwich and a medium fry.
You're right. They are spinning pretty fast. Aren't they getting dizzy? What if they fall...
Please show me your ID card and tell me the receiver's address.
Then I'll just shut up and sit down!
Can you read and write English and French?
Actually, the business trip itself was very successful. We arrived on time, we had nice conversations and we settled some important issues for the next year.
I will be voting tomorrow.
Then let me see.
You should get acupuncture treatment. My mom was always having headache issues and it was acupuncture that cured her.
Hello, Debbie. This is Donald.
Much better, thanks. I have been resting all day. Only with television as my companion.In fact, in the whole week the only thing I feel like doing was watching TV.
They always use the standard and method laid down in the contract.
But, sir, our souvenir shop carries all those items.
I received a bachelor's degree in Economics.
You have made a good choice, sir. I drive an Accord myself. They are very solidly built machines, very reliable.
What about tonight? Do you have plans tonight?
Why tell me? She has nothing to do with me!
Well, yes.How about beef stew? We can serve you at once.
Yes, I made a reservation for 3 days for April 3rd to 6th, and my name is Sara.
Oh yeah? I could use some. What ’ s up?
Not at all, Sam.
We can take the train, that will be faster. I'II book the tickets tomorrow morning.
I broke my leg, but it is healing.
I don't know what I can do now. I'm down and out.
What should I do after I turn in the application?
It's a pretty short trip.
I think producers are underestimating the audience. They should think of better ways to entertain the general public.
I wish to have a job in which I can make good use of my strengths and have further improvement. And your company meets all my requirements.
So what do you do there?
Alright, We'll take care of that.
Mario and I are the best students in the class.Miss.Parker says that my pronunciation is very good.
Exactly. It reveals the dark side of the all-American meal.
of course I'd come. I couldn't think of a better chance to see all my old friends.
Yeah. It won't be much, but at least we ’ ll have a monthly check when we get old.
Here's your laundry ticket, sir.
I would like to book a table for 2.
Actually, it likes milk too.
My boy wants me to buy a toy, so I think I ’ d better satisfy him.
I am afraid not. Have you lost your passport?
Mm. I've seen him a couple of times, I think.
You know students use tested message service. And they provide favorable service for that.
Oh, sure. I will need to clean off my own eye shadow first.
OK. A reservation for eight at7 : 30, Room 208. Please don't be more than half hour late, or we will have to give it to other guests.
It smells good. Look at these. They make my mouth watering.
Yes. I need some ice water delivered.
I don't think it will spoil our trip.
My name's Ron Smith and the phone number is 356-2210.
What kind of problems are you talking about?
May I open one of these? Let me taste it.
What's the fare?
I think pink eye shadow is popular among Chinese girls.
That will work.
OK. I'll go then.
Then please wake me up at 7 : OO.Thank you.
Yes, it is. What can I do for you?
Did you drive yourself to the airport?
Ours is a company special in exporting leather products. And what about yours?
Thank you for your assistance, Mr Bush.
I suppose you're right.
Is it all right?
Would you like to buy a bottle for me in the shop?
Good morning, Madam, can I take your order now?
I think he had water on the brain. This is bad.
My main duties include designing survey sheets, transferring them to the dispatchers, making telephone covering on blurred information and processing the data and doing the primary analysis.
Take my VISA.
Oh, definitely. I remember, when I first arrived in Guangzhou, my girlfriend was haggling with a sales clerk over the price of a mobile phone.
Just get out of my face!
Well, I think that it is pretty safe to say that this is not the house for you.
Correct! What about you, Fred?
I am new to the work and I will appreciate your guidance!
You're right, doctor. It's more important to be healthy than wealthy. I'll change my job. I'm grateful for your advice.
well, maybe you could tell them about my promotion.
How much will I be fined?
I lost one of my contact lenses, and I ’ m searching high and low for it.
I would rather buy them somewhere else.
A house warming party?
How dare you! ( starts to walk off )
I knew you'd come around...
Come on. You ’ ll feel better after we hit the showers.
I know. Why don't we take a different route?
Are you interested in being in a particular school district?
So let's eat out.
She'll be online 20 minutes after she opens the box.
here you are.
Congratulations, Francis. Your hard working finally pays off. I am so happy for your promotion.
But that's better than keeping everything to yourself. You've got to let her know. Come on! You've got to take a chance! Even though you are rejected, it's not the end of the world! There's nothing to lose, is there?
May I please speak to Robert?
Yes, he likes the people and the quietness there.
We have that package.
You can't do that, Jenny!
Yes, we are. We can neither play football nor do our homework today.
I see. You mean you don't enjoy smoking any more?
That is guaranteed. Each box is lined with foam plastic in order to prevent damage by air, water or stress. Besides, cardboard boxes will be secured together on wood pallets by overall metal strapping.
We could contact alumni who work for large, well-know companies. They might be able to arrange cheap advertising in exchange for some free tickets.
Oh, good, do you have a discount for two?
Hello, IMPF Bank, how can I help you?
I can see that you are a smart buyer. Forty thousand is my best price.
Yeah, not seeing a single person anywhere informed me. Hey! How about that one over there?
Where was this picture taken?
Well, if you could send me your basic background information before next Monday, it would be useful.
How late can we stay out?
It’s 25 cents for each book.
The hard drive has 260 G and the RAM is 4 G.
Hi, Bob, this is Mary.
I left after the opening dance. I couldn ’ t wait to get out of there.
Are you? Who's the lucky girl?
Nice to meet you, too. Did you have any difficulty finding our company?
Do you require a deposit?
I ’ ll get them for you at once. And could I file the report for you?
Please open the letter of credit 15 to 30 days before the date of delivery so that we'll have enough time to make all the necessary arrangements. Another thing, the L / C should be valid until the 15th day after shipment.
What is your favorite kind of music?
Pardon? Your way of articulating is too slow. Would you speak a little faster?
I want you to be on time for school today.
Of course. The main thing is that all our work must be completed on schedule. We even allow our employee to go home early if they finish their work early.
Hello, I need to make a dinner reservation.
Can you help me with Comprehensive Credit Granting?
Three for ten cents.
Very good. Now, could you help me to adjust the air conditioning, please? It's too hot in my room.
I see. May I have your name and phone number?
Could you tell me something about investment environment of your country?
Do you believe that Mormons have all of it?
Maths and chemistry were my favorite subjects at school. I also enjoyed history.
That's very kind of you.How soon do you really need them?
Hi, Monica, Richard again. Have you ever heard about our company? It is an international one with good reputation. We have a lot of successful cases. If you ’ re trying advance your career, I would love to help you. XYZ Company is one of our clients. They ’ re in need of the talent like you. Would you be interested in taking part in an interview? It is scheduled some time within this week.
No, that won ’ t be necessary.
This apartment is great, but could I upgrade a few things?
You can audition music on line, and you can audition it off line after downloading it, so you needn't pay for it.
We will have our midterm exams next month. I plan to look for some important books and study at the library. Do you want to join me?
How much was that?
Slow down! You can't exceed the speed limits.
Yes, what's your name?
Okay. I could go for that. It’s called Al ’ s Steakhouse. They also have great fried fish, and I love their salad bar. You can go back to refill 1 your plate as often as you like.
Take the lift to the third floor and then go along until you see the sign on your right.
There are a couple of reasons why you didn't pass.
OK. please give me twenty cents.
Thank you for a very enjoyable evening and your hospitality.
Do I owe any fees?
Sorry, sir, you have to pay in the check-out counter. It's there.
All right. That ’ ll be fine. Can you put together a rough idea of the kind of money I ’ ll have available for the next year?
I know, you should really go and see her and the baby.
The boss is planning to sell the company.
Do you take credit card?
No, thanks. But I'd like a facial massage.
Well, that's a bit of a tricky situation.
interesting! And how do you feel about decision-making? Are you an independent thinker, or do you depend more on your superior for direction?
Is this amount correct?
True, but English is harder than most.It ' s a crazy language.
Hello, Mr. Sandals. My name is Michelle. What days do you need that reservation, sir?
Mmm... let me think. Oh, I know just a person. An old colleague of mine, Jim Thomas, is coming here to do some research this summer, from June to August.
Mr. Smith, I's like to ask you a question.
You have to do six hours behind the wheel.
Okay. But be prepared for an all-nighter! I doubt you will want to put it down either.
That ’ s a good idea. She told me that she had bought plenty of food and snacks. I think It’s going to be a noisy party. I hope her neighbors don ’ t mind too much.
sounds fun.what else?
It that case, I ’ ll send it by airmail. I ’ d like to send it as a registered parcel.
Alright, you'd better hurry, your bus is coming.
We'll have to negotiate that. It's a possibility.
Grandpa, this restaurant looks really old! How long ago was it built?
That ’ s wonderful! You must be really proud of him!
I don ’ t want to beat around the bush so I ’ m just gonna come out with it. We are going to have to let you go.
Yes. Speaking of digital wares, I bought a digital camera last week.
I ’ m serious.
The brakes don't really work that well anymore either.
That's a wonderful way to celebrate this grand old library!
So what? Things have changed.
Maybe you can't be so sure.
Yeah, I'm very nauseous.It ' s mostly nausea and a fever.
Yes. Go to the next corner and turn left onto Center Street. Walk three blocks to Second Avenue and turn right. Walk two more blocks and you'll see City Hall on the left.
Well, I can't make it on Friday either, but I'm free on Saturday night. What time does it start?
Let me show you. We have this rose colour. We also have different shoes of beige.
I did self-study of Japanese in college, and I can carry on some simple conversations in Japanese.
the port is exquisite. It must have spent years aging in barrels. Am I right?
That's all right.Would you have a cup of coffee?
He has a fever.
Why can't you just let me off with a warning?
Well, in that case. I will call the manger, you can talk directly with him.
My amenities bill says that I owe $ 10 for a movie, but I never ordered one.
How often do you write to them?
Nothing in life is free, Son.
They're so much fun to eat. You can suck all the coating off first...
Oh, dear! There isn't a problem, is there?
Should I tell my bank that I have made an offer?
OK.Do I have to pay for this charge?
Yes, I ’ m satisfied with this job.
I went to there on business.
what seems to be the problem?
No, I am not eating there anymore. I have ordered my favorite food in the restaurant around the corner. The food served in the cafeteria is not my type. I am a total meat lover. But the cafeteria is doing its best to force me to be a vegetarian. They have been serving the Chinese cabbage and white gorse for three days. Haven ’ t you noticed that?
Oh, must I?
Yes. there are trains at 7:59, 9:18, 10:32 and 11:55
I claimed the work I did on the last Continued Claim Form.
Is she busy?
No, they are filed according to dates.
Excuse me, we have book table 6. Would you please come and tidy the table?
Hmm. I'm afraid I can't make it on Monday. I've got to fly to Chicago on business.
Oh, you are so efficient. I thought you might give it to me tomorrow. Thanks.
Household appliance don ’ t seem to last for a long time nowadays.
Hello, is Marie Ward there, please?
Wasn't that football game great! I just knew we'd win!
I get it, and thank you for your honesty.
Thank you for organizing this great baby shower for me! I ’ Ve always been to baby showers but never actually had one held for me! Let ’ s get started!
How long does it take you to cook a meal for five or six people?
I'm not feeling too well.
I can help you there. Those are numbers that cannot be created by multiplying two whole numbers, apart from the number itself and 1, together.
I almost always make either a beef roast or a chicken roast with asparagus, parsnips, peas, carrots and potatoes on Sundays.
We're just looking for a reasonable price according to the specifications in our project blueprint. That's all I can say.
It serves her right!
No, I don't think she's that strong-minded.
Where are you transferring the money to?
It is said that the sales for the new computer did not meet the expectation.
Did you ever talk to him about it?
Hopefully, I ’ ll get accepted to UCLA.
Certainly, work always comes first.
I totally agree!
The buildings are really magnificent.
Yes, is there a problem? Ma ’ am?
I prefer the linen one.
And I was overwhelmed by this scene, too.
Let's take a look at the menu so we can order. Do you want to choose an appetizer for us to share?
I cannot ignore her suggestion. In fact I always value her suggestion.
athletes are always delightful.
I only have a couple left. Why don't you pick some up on the way.
I like playing the piano.
That ’ s fine... I need to pick up some stationary-you know, a stapler, scissors, files, who should I see about that?
Sure. In fact, nowadays, you'll see more tourists there than Italians. There are Mafia tours nowadays that go there to eat.
Kula Lumpur, in Malaysia.
good. Let ’ s take a look at that rash... it looks worse than it is. I ’ m going to prescribe some ointment for it. If the rash doesn ’ t clear up in a few days, come back and see me. Do you have any other Sy
You're here a bit early, so check the departure screens in the waiting area in about a half hour. Here's your boarding pass. Enjoy your flight!
I also want to check out this video.
I often recalled the days when Tom and I were madly in love.
Yes. I was. But I didn ’ t have enough time to devote to it.
Are you sure you didn't wear it this morning?
The acting of this film is marvelous in spite of the thin plot.
yes, much better. You can log in a website, browse through many items and categories comfortably at home, order the goods, pay by credit or debit card, and the goods will be delivered to your home.
are you scared of anything?
Where ’ s Sally, Jack?
Of course not. I really did lose track of time.
How do you do, Ms. Yang.You speak very good English.
Thirty U. S. dollars... and it's only been used for six months.
Ok but you must stay calm. Do you want me to give you a lift?
I ride a motorcycle.
I'll say the movie's starting in the minute.
Oh, I see.Glad to see you here.
Hey, sounds great to me, kid. What kind of job did you find?
Fantastic! I got the promotion!
Of course! Everything at Helen's is overpriced, and they sell things that you can find at almost every other clothing store! Why didn't you shop around?
Well, yeah, but I'd be getting somebody else's problems.
But it is! Take this morning for example. The subway was so packed this morning, I got totally squished by about a hundred busy commuters on the way to work.
I hate the bus system in London! The bus drivers are rude, the buses are never on time, and there are few people around who can help you.
Fine, well just send the form to us and we will let you know as soon as your supplies come in. Have a good day!
I make each one a little different. It's a way for me to express my creativity!
Alright, alright. How did you cut this so bad?
I see. Do you live in this neighborhood, too?
Oh, sure. How are you? Long time no see. How are things at Lemans?
Dad, that's all right. I don't think it will rain. And it doesn't make any sense to take that many things on a trip. Besides I like to travel light. Bye!
hints are really important when you're solving puzzles. If you give me some hints about playing that PS2 game, I ’ ll show you how to solve the Rubik's cube.
this is supposed to be your vacation ; we'd like you to just relax.
Come and meet her now.
All I know is you look quite differently from other teachers.
Well, maybe the net is slow now. Try it again.
I think we should go out more frequently. The natural scenery can do us good.
My absolutely favorite kind of pie is apple.
Our first choice would be 7
OK. Just keep in mind it has to be somebody who can get along with Elvin.
That sounds pretty good! How much is it?
Perhaps you'd prefer a limousine. That's such a stylish way to travel.
Do you object to drinking black tea, Mr.Zhang?
Said, and done. Will there be anything else?
Yes, both. Last trip I fished a little and hiked five miles.
Well, how did you like the show?
You don't like Western food?
I ’ m sorry but, to be honest, you are a terrible employee!
Excellent. So you'll have a good chance of getting it.
Yes. Of course. But what good will it do? That man's miles away from here by now. In our car.
It takes only one day and you could experience almost all the famous spots in the city, I don't think you would like to miss it.
Jenny, what are you going to do tomorrow morning?
Of course it depends on what you are going to do when you leave college. Have you decide what you are going to do when you graduated?
Well, all the gifts for my family, you know, two pairs of sneakers for my children and a bottle of perfume for my wife.
An exporter needs to know the social characteristics of people he is dealing with.
What if I buy around ticket? Can you offer me some more?
Sure. That's no problem.
I see. I'll tell Mr.Tomas you've called.
Are you sure she was trying to put you down?
A piece of cake?
You're right. Watching movies at home is way cheaper than going to the theater, too. I like downloading movies too because it's easy and fast.
Do I really have to do it? I don't know how.
What would you let me do now?
What's wrong?
Oh, really? Who won?
That's hard to say... I think Ottawa is prettier.It has better sightseeing, too. A lot of museums and galleries.
that's the bad thing---the contract ends in June, so we'll have to find a new apartment soon.
Why do they serve up the noodles first? I don't like it. Where is the cake?
Eventually I did get to a real person. I found out the closing time, but by then the store had already closed!
Think about it!
Well, it depends.
I see. We have a window table reserved for you.
I guess everyone has a few secrets up their sleeve.
Thanks. But It’s necessary for me to buy a TV set.
Well, I just saw a horror movie last night. It almost frightened me to death.
What kind of apples do you prefer?
I ’ m sick of my job, I always have to work late at night, and the company keeps me working in the office.
Maybe. I will look around.
Tom and Bill Smith. They are both working now you know? And they've bought a new house.
Sure. If I could, I would eat hotpot every day!
Here is a little gift for your family. It's a calendar with all the community events on it. I hope it can be helpful.
We have Volkswagen, Pinto, Plymouth and Datsun.
Why would I do that?
It’s okay. I don ’ t want to go now. We ’ Ve already missed ten minutes of the movie. I don ’ t want to see a movie without watching the beginning.
Yeah, I ’ m going to be running the Walker Avenue Branch.
"For fun. It serves as a shared topic to them.While they claim to consult the predictions constantly and marvel at their "" accuracy '. they do not necessarily take them seriously. When it that these predictions are matched by their real-life experiences, they delight in spreading the thrill with friends. But if there isn't any correlation between reality and predictions, they just grin, forget about them, and go on living as usual."
Would you please get the bill ready before supper?
I'm reading a lot of books about the two countries. I like the culture.
Hello, Jason, there is going to be a screening of Final Destination 3 at our campus cinema tomorrow. I plan to go to see it.
Some poisonous gas.
Well, you can't have everything. Let's just figure out what you will do if you lose your job. When is your contract up on your apartment?
Just this one.
So, what do you think? How do you like New York?
Hello. Are you a friend of Helen's?
nice to meet you too.
Dear, can you drive me to the clinic?
A haircut and a shave, please.
The delicatessen department is on the second floor.
Here are your baggage claim stubs, miss. And here are your boarding passes. Your seats are 29K and 29J. Your flight leaves at Gate 7, and we'll be boarding in about an hour and a half.
it's the only perk of this job! How's your day going?
We are redecorating and I'm going to add some things.
Give me one coke, please.
I like painting, sailing, watching football and talking to you.
These two are urgent letters and should be sent by registered express airmail. Others are ordinary letters.
Don't you like the sea?
The bridegroom looks a bit nervous.
I absolutely love it.
Hello! Is there anything I can help you with?
But i donor like it, not a bit, i am not a pet, i am a girl.
Goodbye and see you tonight. Miss Rose.
It's only about a five-minute walk.
A couple of days ago. I just go back from the funeral.
Have you figured out who you ’ re going to vote for?
How time flies! Why I always feel haven't enough time to work and study?
Well, we can do nothing about it.
Yes, Look out of the window.
You mean used car?
You can serve our salads with our dinner.
Well, then, will you put this and that into doggie bags?
Don't you feel a little strange taking the place of your old boss after he was demoted?
I agree. But I think that we can handle the problem by making a few major changes. I ’ d appreciate it if you would give me a chance.
I'll go with you. Where is she?
Excuse me. I'm ready to order.
Why? To welcome the new year of course?
Look, we have a lot of accumulated anger from working in these conditions, and It’s probably okay to let off steam once in a while. But, It’s probably not a good idea to keep it up I ’ m willing to forgive and forget and if you are.
Are we going to have dinner tonight?
Well, I ’ m not too sure, actually. I ’ Ve got a lot going on the next couple of weeks. Why don ’ t I call you later?
I had mine when I was 24. that ’ s a little young. I ’ d suggest you wait until you are in your late twenties., or even in your early thirties if you have a good career.
what would you rather have, samosas or poppadoms?
Joanna, I will go to the outlet center. You wanna go with me?
Then when will you be back again?
yes, I do. Let ’ s go. We should be able to find something suitable. We should get him something old... something historic.
You could save a couple of dollars by taking it to the dump yourself, though.
Just a minute.
Several years ago.
Sure, I used to catch my legal limit of bass there all the time.
Well, when summer comes, the weather is hot and the leaves turn darkgreen ; the sun is blazing and the air is threatening. No one would like to stay in the open air for long.
Really? I thought I was doing well.
I'm afraid I can't do that. It's Dad's seat, according to the book about table manners.
A good choice. I prefer that one myself.
I feel sick and coughed a lot at night.
Let me check. Yes, we have.
Oh? Where do you work?
What do people usually do on Saint Valentine's Day?
You know, I often overhear our neighbor, the young couple, fighting about how to raise their kid and I really don't want kids to spoil our happiness.
Okay, thanks very much.
Thank you, you are very kind!
A foot massage sounds like a great idea. They are very relaxing. I ’ d also like to have mudpack on my face. It’s supposed to help with your complexion.
Excuse me, young man?
Did you put the blue bin out on the street?
You're right. He sure is.
It's right here. $ 100.
Hello, are you interested in this Honda?
Cedar is a good choice.
And it's calm. I like the peace.
We do have a souvenir shop on the first floor, sir.
Who is your favorite NBA star?
Not a problem. Could you tell me you L / C number, please?
that smells great. I'll take one bottle, please.
What do you mean? It's a scrim.
What does your father do?
Good, but can you tell me how to get to your office?
You're right. I love going out and making new friends.
Good afternoon. I believe that this house is for sale.
It looks wonderful. Very authentic.
Either we'll be millionaires, or we won't... won't have a dime.
Turn the lights off.Then, run the car and the heater only about fifteen minutes every hour.That will conserve the heat as long as possible.
You ’ re welcome. Can I ask you what brings you to China?
Sorry about your arm, but it serves you right. You need to learn how to drive. You're lucky you didn't get killed. And I'm lucky to be alive too.
What do you think about all the different diets people go on?
It's only seven minutes into the game, too early to cheer up.
What kind of winter sport do you like best?
I had my own ways of finding out. It's a secret. You look so beautiful today. Your new shirt goes well with your skirt.
Don ’ t count on it. I think the best way to prevent AIDS is to keep yourself clean by having clean sex and keeping a regular sex partner.
I like to get rid of clothes that I don ’ t wear rather than keeping them in a wardrobe. They take up too much space. There are several charity shops that you can give old clothes to. They will be
What are you listening to? Is that Beethoven or Mozart?
Yes, but there is a five dollars delivery charge.
What did you dislike the most?
OK, Ben and May, here we go. Be careful, Danny, the ball is coming. That is the green one.
Yes. We have. We chose the location in the northeast of the city, not too far from the airport and on the edge of the CBD.
the leopard print sounds fabulous. Are they a name brand?
Thanks. I'll let him know.
That's nice. Where is his villa?
( After they entering the park ) Great, it's so quiet here. We have the park to ourselves, only you and me.
DEL isn't connected through your phone line, but dial-up is.
What did you argue about?
First, what is the number for room service?
Well, it's not just the girl ’ s fault. It's also society's fault - magazines and ads that show - thin models all saying, It's in to be thin. It's hard for them not to listen.
Yeah I know.
Now you know.
So how did you propose?
Just like dear old London!
What should he have then?
Would you like to take a look at the menu, sir?
Did you report it on your Continued Claim Form?
It's 90 dollars in all.
Would you please tell me something about the agriculture and industry of New Zealand?
Each night costs 320 RIB, but for a four night stay, we can offer a discount of 15 %.
It is cute. I will take it. Please make out the receipt.
Yeah, I guess so.
I'll give you some tablets that should make you feel better. One moment, please. Here you are. Take these tablets three times a day swallow them with water.
Yes, of course. Can I make a reservation for you?
When do the playoffs start?
What else are you going to do?
What kinds of workshops are available at the EDD?
Nothing much. I ’ m going to the cinema on Friday night but that ’ s all I have planned.
What degree did you get?
It's a surprise!
The best we can do is another 30 dollars off. That's definitely the lowest we can go.
I'd be very pleased.
OK, here they are.
So what kind of music turns you on?
Sorry, but you'll have to park in a normal space.
Yeah, we've experienced the 8.0 magnitude earthquake in Wenchman.
I'm not quitting yet. You know my favourite slogan, don't you?
Single. What's the fare, PLS?
OK. She's a costume designer and works in a garment mill.
If you tell me the exact problem, I can be more helpful.
If you make an appointment with a job counselor, they can also provide you with a lot of information. Do you want to see a counselor?
Why not! It’s a classic ; in fact, It’s one of my favorite novels.
Sure Linda, that's a great suggestion.
Oh! Good evening. I'm sorry, but she is not in. She's gone out to the theatre
I opened my mail, found this eviction notice, and don ’ t know what to do with it.
There was a very important project that had to be researched and completed by the end of the week. Even though I worked extra hours every night for almost two weeks, my boss and I stayed until 2 a. m. for two nights before the final wrap up. It was very rewarding to have put so much effort into a project and see the really great results. My boss gave me a bonus for my extra effort.
The woman who won the 1500 meters also broke the world record by 2 seconds.
You might also want to leave a little extra room in the waist area. I tend to gain a few pounds over the holidays.
Hey Matt. I just got a job at a consulting firm.
It all sounds great. We can go there after the match. I can't wait to see what they have.
Certainly, Mr. Alexander. When would Mr. Phillips like to leave?
You know that I care for you. I---I ’ m proud of you.
I'm in the mood for a Californian.
There ’ s movie? My teacher didn ’ t tell me that!
You guys are working around the clock, I know. That guy Dave next to Zina never leaves.
Oh, I'm sorry, but I've just accepted another offer that I feel is more suitable to my needs.
Of course, she should take minutes.
I know, Mr. Emory. I'm sorry. But I really need to see the doctor this afternoon. I feel dizzy and I can't concentrate on my work.
What are these red things sir?
Yes, I am annoyed by this, too.
Do the same thing with a drop slip if you ever need to drop a class. Good luck!
500. We ’ re running on three shifts.
Could you please reserve it for me?
If they agree to enroll you, they will send you a TAP - 66 Form. With TAP - 66, you can apply for a passport from our government, and then apply for a visa from the US Embassy in Beijing.
What about supply of parts to the production line?
Not a bad idea!
What would you like for lunch, pork, mutton or beef?
Thank you very much for telling me all these things about the college.
Susan, good evening.Why are you so dressed up?
It's my first time to come to Bangkok. Could you recommend some places for me?
We can hold them until one day before the show.
It's about a ten-minute walk.
You're leaving on Tuesday morning.
No problem. We will offer you a room with one bedroom and a kitchen..
Oh, great! I hope I can spend this Spring Festival with you here in Beijing.
What about here in physical education?
Here is your table, and now may I take your drink order while you are considering what to have for dinner?
How much do you think we should leave for a tip?
I'm sorry. I didn't follow you. Could you please repeat that?
How about 130 yuan?
No kidding. Time is running out.
No, I think the music is too fast.
Well sir, yes. How about this stew? We can serve you at once.
Are you a football player?
More than 100 times. The flight takes off at 12:00.
Is that what people usually do on Memorial Day?
What's this, I wonder?
You mean this month?
The tests showed nothing wrong. A slight viral infection.
Did you watch the old-fashioned wrestling game last night?
Are you kidding? That place is too ritzy for lunch.
That is right up my alley. You say party and I'm there.
I think so. I set it by the radio this morning.
It wasn't too bad. At lease I'm alive.
It ended in a tie.
I know that, but making a lot of money makes me crazy.
Good afternoon, sir.
Oh, good. Can you describe it?
I have an idea.
Sure. What kind of food do you like?
And does Rocky drive a truck, too?
Pleasure. I'm visiting my relatives.
Do you have any plans for tomorrow?
Here ’ s the money for the book.
Yes. I would like a pair of black leather shoes in size 25.
That deposit bothers me. Give me a minute.
I am sorry, sir, it's for 4 persons to have. I think it's too large for you.
it looks like it should be here in just a few minutes.
Me too. Please write to me as soon as you get Boston.
Thank you. It's very kind of you to invite me to such a beautiful place.
I was only interested in the Haunted House and the roller coaster rides.The other rides are for kids.
Americans don ’ t like giving money, they prefer presents you buy for them. So I have to figure out what to buy for all of my family and friends.
I will give you the lowest price in the future.
No, and I don ’ t usually get a lot of stomachaches.
Don't dis my hair! I like it like this.
When you hired me, you knew you were going to be low on cash, didn't you?
Yes, here you are. Try it in front of the mirror.
Really? My name is Gretchen Hammer. What is your name?
unfortunately, it doesn't. how about some diet coke?
Never mind. What about taking a look around the theater?
I didn ’ t, but I applied for an apprenticeship, and since I studied math, AND I have a good attitude 4, my application was accepted.
What line of business are you in?
This this movie thing is so sus.
Oh, I see. Fortunately government has taken some action to prevent such things.
I'm sorry, but I don't think this damage is our fault.
It’s about six or seven miles. That ’ s about ten kilometers.
Can't beat that! Thank you accounting guy!
I don't know. There ’ s plenty of fish out there in the sea!
I have cut the price the minimum. You know our freshener is a patent product, different from other kinds of fresheners. We could not have quitted it at such a low price if it were not for your past large orders. This price, actually, leaves us with a very small profit.
Only about twenty minutes.
I am going to the Capital Hotel.
I think I'll try it, and give me some green salad together.
It's hard for me to imagine. How can you stand that?
It's 0-7- 7-8- 7-3- 6-7- 6-8- 8.
It does, but it won't connect to anything.
Used to. But now he is too old to play in a fierce game like this. But Kobe is the upcoming superstar now.
Well. I hope there won't be such things.
No problem. Anything else, sir?
But we need the wood.
I wish you wouldn't play the TV so loud.
Sorry, but I'm on my way out now. Could you come back in an hour?
Do you have medical insurance?
Do you know what size he wears?
Yeah. You look so unhappy recently. What ’ s the matter.
Steve Schliessman. S C H L I E S S M A N.
It doesn't matter right now, either one would be OK.
what kind of course are you looking for?
Marry Wang's Office, this is Marry.
Are you looking forward to doing more editing work?
Certainly, you're welcome anytime.
Say, why don't you come with us? We have plenty of room.
yeah, if I buy a cell phone like this, I don't have to take a music player everywhere I go, and I can save the cost of buying an extra mp4.
Well, I was hoping you would do me a big favor. That was supposed to be a rush order, I forgot to tell you. I ’ m getting a lot of flak from my boss.
One pair of 37, and two pairs of 21. One for me, and the other two for two kids.
Pardon me. Please speak a little louder.
Yeah. You know what Dave just said?
Will the utilities be turned on?
You have got a car, haven ’ t you?
Can't it wait? She's still angry that we sent e-mail wedding invitations.
Could you drop me off at the airport?
It's on Fair Oaks and Orange Grove.
Excuse me, Ms. Montgomery?
So this is a real thing?
McCain is our new President.
Come on in.Let me show you the house.Isn ' t it something? Spacious, bright and clean.And the walls were newly painted.Have you ever seen such a nice house?
We're having some friends over.What are you doing?
that's alright. I just can't bear losing track of all the latest information. It almost drives me crazy.
Those are for pay-per-view movies. Each time you selected a movie, the entertainment system prompted you to confirm that you really wanted it, right?
Thank you, but the bus stops right at my house.
The day we choose to get married could never be an unlucky day.
Good morning. Are you ready to order?
Yes, we did. Do I pay you or the cashier?
Yes, ma'am?
Cool. Thanks. ( Jimmy brings May a glass of orange juice. )
Now listen, Ben. Look, I think It’s a very good thing that a young man — after he ’ s done some very good work — should have a chance to relax and enjoy himself, and lie around, and drink beer and so on. But after a few weeks I believe that person would want to take some stock in himself and his situation and start to think about getting off his ass.
You will be required to pay a small fee for every time you overdraft.
We can pig out on potato chips and cookies. They are very cheap.
Are you tired after class?
I like yellow best. How much does it cost?
I came here to get a chest X-ray.
"Yes. If a tornado has been spotted, they announce a "" tornado warning "". So if there's a tornado warning on, it means a tornado is out there somewhere."
Fortunately her class is just an elective course, not as important as compulsory courses.
Where is our son, dear?
Do you have any idea if the parking structure has any spaces left?
But there're some mare's tails.
Oh, come on! A tour of Australia would be relaxing because you ’ d be doing something different and not working.
Hey Steve. When's the next time you're going to play golf?
OK. How about some spring rolls and squid balls, some pork skins, and some beer!
What's the weather like in winter?
That might be the artificial lighting, madam. Of course, if you could come back in daylight, you might find It’s exactly what you are looking for.
I'm sorry to hear that. Have you been looking for another job?
You can get one in the grocery store over there.
But there aren't any lotus now.
Yes, maybe I should.
I'm sorry we don't ship overseas. It's too much trouble.
no, should I have?
office romance is very tricky.
Don't you have a credit card?
Classic. Something that could calm your mind.
I see. How do I draw money from my news then.
All right. But I don't want to play tennis. We played tennis last weekend.
I need size 41.
Why is it taking so long?
Please send me your background information before the meeting so I can look at it.
Oh, come on, baby. Tell me what happened.
Let ’ s go check it out again!
There are people everywhere. What's that girl doing?
We should come here more often.
One pound and fifty pence a pound.
Hey, Maris, are you a part-timer?
Have you noticed how fluently he speaks English? He has only lived in America for less than three months.
Hi! I'm Nancy. Nice to meet you.
I have always enjoyed flying. And I am good with people.
We'd like this course for two, please.
No problem! Now for your pants, let me just measure your waist and the inseam.
All right. I'll show you something darker. Do you like this one?
I want to get some cable.
So, that's everything done for you. Here's your new cheque book, the cheque guarantee will follow in the post in a couple of days.
Ok. Shall we discuss the schedule in the lobby?
I see. Sir, if I may ask. Have you used up all the amenities in your room?
Do you want me to check the tires and the fluids?
Oh, hop in.
That's not a problem. I'll pop in later today to make a formal request. Thanks!
Actually, I think we want to pay our bill.
It was for 4
When did you form this hobby?
I have a suit that needs cleaning.
Oh, yeah. Thought I am an American, I know quite a lot about China and I like Chinese tea very well.
I ’ ll make sure he gets the message.
I prefer strong.
OK, I'll wrap it for you.
I came back to my room and found my suitcase was open and my camera and five hundred dollars in cash inside the wallet were gone.
Wait a minute. It's $ 80.5.
Leave me! Go away!
It's no trouble at all because your house is on the way to my place.
In that case. you can get a refund with a certain percentage of the original fare deducted as the service charge.
how many rooms does your house have?
Hello, this is room 1205. Our message lamp is flashing.
You are welcome. I ’ d better go. Goodbye.
What do you suggest I should see in New York?
Turn left at the second light and then go straight for two blocks.
We hope you get on board with us, Please let me know as soon as possible.
Well, historically it is a practice that many cultures share. Reading the tarot cards, in the east they would even read tea leaves! I even heard that there are people that make you smoke a cigar, and then read your ashes.
Who is it?
It is not an easy job. The government is working on it. Lots of trees have been planted in the north of the capital. Also, methods of generating rain are being used by the government to fight against the drought. But of course, it will not work overnight. So, have you come out with a new plan for today?
Have you taken your temperature?
Is this the last thing that I will need to do before the house becomes mine?
Yes, It’s reasonably fast but it certainly isn ’ t cheap. Fares have gone up25 %.
I will bite many beautiful girls on the neck tonight. Maybe I will suck their blood.
Yes. I can't even find a seat.
Cool! I wish I could have been there!
That's great! It's not my day. I just have very bad sense of direction.
Okay. I'm in. Let's do it.
You should do better later.
I hate to ask you to do something like that.
no, but I think it'd be really great for people like you who are always on the go.
Do you have your receipt with you?
This is bigger than the Super Bowl, man! Teams from 32 countries compete against each other every four years and fight to win that trophy. They first start in a group stage with bigger groups, each group having 4 teams. The top 2 teams pass on to an elimination stage before going on to the quarter final sand semifinals.
OK. Which day do you want to book?
Good, then let ’ s get to the interview.
Perhaps you should excercise more. Why don't you go to an exercise class.
I know. Did your mom double check on the church reservations?
Yes, there's one here. It's in the store.
Do you have any short-term goals?
Yup, you understand. And my parents are trying to pressure me into going to a Catholic college. They both attended one and think that it combines a good education with good discipline. And the tuition is usually pretty low.
Do you think that I could have a different paint color in my apartment?
Don't worry. You can get off at the next stop and walk across the street and take the Bus 151 to the opposite direction.
Thanks anyway, but I'll do it, Rebecca. Let's get to class.
Yes, I probably could.
OK! Do we need any meat?
You need a bath every day.
You really should stop smoking, you know.
I'm too tired now. I've already worked for 12 hours overtime!
A pharmacist might be able to help you if your home remedies don ’ t work.
Yeah that would be cool! Maybe I can also have a try at other weapons like a machine gun or a shotgun! Maybe even a rocket launcher or an anti tank missile! Or what about a flame thrower!
do you have a car?
I need souvenirs!
Yes, it is annoying.
Is this training part of the package or will it cost extra?
How much do you want to pay?
I can send that information to you.
These are all the latest fashion. How do you like this white turtleneck one?
No, tell him I'm tied up.
whatever you prefer.
Are you ready to order, madam?
Yes, I'd like to book a table for four at seven this evening.
Oh, here comes our waitress with our check.
my husband and I prefer to have no kids, but my mother-in-law is very traditional and wants grandkids.
Tonight? I'm afraid I can't. I've promised Mark to go to the gym. Can we make it tomorrow?
Yes, it must be used for grinding coffee beans.
Oh, I see. Thank you very much.
Wait! I think I see a bus coming now. Let's hope it's the No. 22 bus.
The Terminal is a movie of this type.
I'm glad I did too.
Well, roughly speaking, a hacker is a computer buff.
OK... just grab it right out of my hands...
Ok, then we can sign up for it together.
Do you have any luggage?
Can I sample a grape?
Mm, yeah, who can you see on the bus? Can you pick out anyone on the bus who looks interesting?
and junk food contains lots of fat and oil. There is one final reason why so many people are fat.
Sounds good! Let's go!
Oh yes, everyone we are inviting is from our company.
I have no idea what I'm doing.
Hey, watch where you ’ re going!
Just pick something and get the hell out of here. Um, I'll go with these two. This is mortifying. I just want to get this over with. She better thank me for this...
His friends will be very happy to get the little souvenir.
Then forgive her mistake.
Listen, John. I understand that you are such an excellent student and I know you must have lots of stress, but you really want to give up?
Your monthly gross salary will increase by $ 500.
Indeed, it's unfair. Households with higher salaries receive larger LPF contributions and thus qualify for larger loans. Lower-income households, on the other hand, can only get smaller loans, or perhaps nothing if they could not afford to purchase any housing.
We need to say something about the geography and climate of china. Is there any way to divide the country into sections?
Well, thank you. I hope to see you at school tomorrow.
That would be fine. We could accept a lower rebate.
I think that I would enjoy the position but there isn't a lot of creativity involved.
About 100 words a minute.
I bake chicken because it's a healthy way to eat it.
My vegetables are very soggy.
In America, most gas stations are like this.
I can't promise anything, but I'll try my best.
I couldn't go to school today, I was sick.
Thank you. Can I offer you some refreshment?
that would be lovely, thanks.
Oh, I think it is.
It’s very kind of you.
Hi, David. What a beautiful necklace! Dude, I ’ Ve never seen anything like it.
Do you mean the ' I love you ' virus that attacks computers through e-mail?
Yes, some. But be aware that different people may like different scents.
Here's the number, 256-4367.
Ok. Thanks for that!
How ’ s it going?
We have a flight that we'll put you there at ten AM. Is that ok?
May I have your name and telephone number?
I'm not sure... well, first, it couldn't be George. He is such a kiss-ass. He'd wash the boss's dog if he asked.
John, you look pale. What happened?
What kind of stamps do you want?
Let me see, with padding and lining cloth, it comes to 357 dollars altogether.
They caught him before he could walk through the front door.
I see. Oh, wait. Ma'am, I'm sorry. These slacks were on sale.
Is there someone else I can talk to?
Will you book a ticket to New York for me?
Make sure that you have money allocated for these supplies. How much do you have for office supplies?
I'd like to, where?
OK. My wife sent me a message and asked me to go home just now. I am leaving.
They can't spell, they can't add, they can't subtract, they even don't remember any more.that ' s because they rely on gadgets.
Is he married?
Would you like a shave?
A one-way ticket to Chicago, please.
Not yet, Dad. I am watching Ultraman instead.No, no, Dad. Please. This program is on only once a week.
I ’ d like to fly next Friday.
Well, there are a lot to do, but nothing to worry about. First, make sure they don't go far from the railings.
It's very simple. Divide the clothes by the colors, and wash them in cold water. If you've got some special stains on them like sugar, coffee or something else please let the dry cleaner know.
Sometimes it's difficult.Some words look different from the way one pronounces them.
We are going to the concert this evening. Will you join us.
I ’ ll till the soil and then sow the seeds. I ’ ll then add some fertilizer and voila! Gardening all done!
Yes, I like to make new friends.
Let's sell our stocks now.
Remind me never to sign up for that course.
No, I haven ’ t had any professional experience, but I have always been interested in creative writing.
Round trip or one way trip?
Here is your bill. It comes to 80 yuan. And yours is 60 yuan.
It is really exciting news.
Yes, the sun shines day after day. It's neither too hot nor too cold.
Tell me more.
State your opinion or argument first, and then go on with details.
It’s simply because the tins were damaged.
Do you have any form of ID?
I said, I'm Ted, who are you?
What was that like?
It's time to go to bed.
"Yes. I wrote a thesis entitled "" On Interpersonal Relations in the Socialist Market Economy "" and it was published in China Daily."
Because I won't let it fail.
How about some burgers?
I worked in the Infection Medicine Division.
Now let me take your measurements.
It looks as though everyone in line reads them, or at least looks at the headlines.
You said she used to? How did you stop her?
I ’ m not sure now. In any case, let ’ s first make some careful investigations.
I suggest that we set up a board of directors for the management of the company and share rights and obligations as equal. That is very important.
What's your expected salary?
Yeah. Well, anyway, it's up to you. But I can tell that you come here often.
Black or dark brown.
Why not walk further to the tree over there?
The train? Will I be flying back then?
Steven, have you ever met Hanson ever since he went back to London?
I think I am getting a fever and will be too sick to help you. Here, feel how hot my head is!
Uh-oh. He's heating up. What are you going to do now?
Then I'll phone our family physician and make an appointment for you.
I can give you the name of a few useful website to visit.
I plead not guilty.
Mr. Thomas is making a long-distance call. Please wait for a few minutes.
Basketball and swimming.
Ms Willows, hello. This is Daniel calling from IBA Bank.
It's already on sale now.
Good afternoon, Mrs.Vale.Please sit down.
Is lunch included?
Where do mangoes come from?
I ’ m afraid you can ’ t. you ’ Ve to go out there and walk around.
I've come to say good-bye.
No, I have visited China several times, but it's my first visit to Beijing and I think it's a great honor to be invited to your beautiful city.
OK! Thank you.
what took so long? I thought your flight was supposed to arrive 3 hours ago!
We have read about this in your sales literature. Could you give us some idea of your prices?
Are you rushing me?
Certainly. Mr. Lee ’ s office building at the south end of the campus, just beside the library.
I ’ m sorry to hear about that.
The door bell doesn't work, the sink is leaking
Good afternoon. It's a pleasure to see you again! What can we do for you today?
Oh, what ’ s the matter?
What about grapes and water melons?
You ’ Ve got a point. Once I dated one of my supervisors and all of my co-workers accused him of favoritism. Then when the relationship went bad, he fired me.
Thanks, I will.
Yes. I can't find my sweater. I have my laundry sent to you yesterday but when the washing is done. I find my swatter missing.
If you send fitters along with the machines to ensure that all the machines run properly, and if you provide after-sales service, we agree to make the payment in full.
Hi, Karen. This is John Williams in the purchasing department. Can you check to see if there ’ s a package down there for me?
I like them. Do you have matching belts?
Would you mind my keeping it for another week?
It's my pleasure. I think this pair of jeans will suit the sweater well.
Um, I'd really appreciate it if you send someone over to fix it today. It's really a bother. I can't cook or take a shower.
I'm going to the bank.
B, what's in your hand?
8000 would be too large a figure to be used for a trial.
I've heard that Tom is going to move.
I'm feeling a little under the weather.
It's the same as meeting people anywhere and dating them! I am just tired of going to bars or being set up for dates by my friends! I think this is a really cool alternative, especially if you are a bit shy.
No, why should I? I don ’ t feel like it. Besides, I ’ m in such a bad mood.
OK, great. Doctor, I think I also may need a Tetanus booster. Last time I got it was maybe fifteen years ago!
I don't really know. Why not ask the accountant or the lawyer of the law firm? They will tell you which is subject or not subject to taxation. He can even help you avoid paying tax legally.
Can I use the clippers?
Yes, that will be easiest.
I found them at Pennies.
Good morning, Ruth. Did I wake you up?
It was just a misunderstanding.
What is the hourly rate for a car like this?
Let me see... I think I can have them insured for five hundred dollars.
One hundred dollars.
Manchester United. What about you?
We will all get a docking station on our own desk from which you can remove your laptop easily. And if you come back to office, you just reconnect your laptop with docking station.
Any special colors?
Err, well, I can ’ t decide right now. Do you mind if I have a small internal discussion on this first? I will tell you our decision this afternoon.
I read about that, and the position sounded great!
And I represent?
You must have the wrong number.
And also this soup is cold.
He ’ s a famous American musician.
What is your major?
I still think nobody plays for nothing.
Hi, Victor. How are you?
Gosh, it's already 10. Stay here if you like.
It was entertaining in some ways. But in general I didn't like it.
I am thinking about quitting my job in the student government. But before that, I must do my job. Bye. Don't forget about that note.
I think I will give you a 3 months ’ trial. The salary for this period is 800 yuan a month with no bonus. After that period if we both feel satisfied, a formal contract would be signed.
Which company are you from? I'll check your details.
OK. When should we be there?
Hmm... well, it was my first attempt! Is it a very big mistake, or can we just alter it?
Thank you. I just consider working as part of my life.
They are very uncomfortable. But women always wear uncomfortable shoes!
Inspiration can come in the strangest ways...
I just need to take your picture.
Rich struck it rich in advertising. And he and Cath got married and just had a child.
I saw a lot of teenagers when Alan and I were there yesterday.
That's ok, keep going, you ’ re moving ahead by leaps and bounds. Watch your dynamics! Keep your elbows lifted. Remember to stroke the keys, don ’ t pound. That ’ s better! Remember that as a pianist or any
I am sorry, there is no window seat in the non-smoking room.
Ok, it was very nice to talk with you and I look forward to your decision at your earliest convenience. Bye.
So, then why did you speed up?
In the ads? Are you serious?
Yes, it's an amazing drop.
A risk I would never take...
I have studied its skills recently at a training school. I plan to run a restaurant, so I have to practise cooking!
Have you had any unusually stressful situations in your life lately?
Why? Do you have a robot girlfriend?
Oh, right, of course. Here you go.
Yes, what's worse is he can't take any further part in the game.
Thanks. Gee, it's really light!
Sure.He has already married, a father of two boys.
If I survive the next six months.
Hey, you, pick up that piece of garbage!
I would like to order my food now.
So what's your plan?
It sure did. It was a heavy storm, with lots of thunder.
Can we get off the plane?
Pretty good. Mary, I was wondering if you would like to come to a party on Friday night?
But I want to watch TV now.
Really, hmmmm.Erm, well, could you perhaps tell me a little about yourself?
Cool! Each contact comes in its own saline solution?
He is really terrific!
How do you spell it, sir?
Yes. There are several data documents about this contract. Please advise me which one I should give up.
Do you have any price range? Is there any way you can give me any idea of what direction to go or how high is too high?
Sorry, sir. The only tickets of the same performance available are on 21st.
He ’ s buying me a handbag, and then dinner at a gorgeous restaurant.
Excuse me, can you tell me where I can take a taxi? This is the first time I have been in England, so I don't know where I can do at all.
My friend finally dumped her boyfriend, and she's sworn she's going to abstain until she finds the right man to marry.
Office hours are nine to five-thirty. One hour for lunch. Do you have any questions?
I am not wrong! The chicken came first!
What's the expiration date on your passport?
Do we have Christmas pudding?
For the Savings Deposit you could actually get more. You see, in time deposit, the interest rate is 1.58 % after the 20 % interest tax. So, technically you could get more than a third more.
Is it due to old age or is he sick.
I am fed up with Jack. He is so weak in dealing with other people and always eats dirt.
Thank you, I know where that is.
Remember that Harvard is a part of the United States. So you have to know the U. S. history and culture if you want to have in-depth knowledge of Harvard. The two are closely related.
I would have liked them to be there, but they couldn ’ t afford to fly out to see us, and we couldn't afford to fly out to see them, so they understood.
Well, I had a meeting today with a woman from Japan and she wouldn't stop bowing! I didn't know what to do!
Here are your receipt and your change, sir. Thank you.
Well, Kristin did give me a hand with the slides.She ' s a real wiz on PowerPoint.
Yeah, I just got some good information off the internet.
I guess you're right. More often than not, people go there only for convenience. The foods may taste good, but generally speaking, they are high in calories, salt and fat.
New York University hospital in New York City. What do you do?
Give it to me... How wonderful! He's coming to visit us.
I'll remember.
has your computer turned back on yet?
Well, I like the styte, but I don't think the color fits me. Could you bring me a green one?
How do you want your hair cut? Any particular way?
Tom, aren ’ t you a little too old to be trick-or-treating?
Got it. Thank you.
Oh, no! I can't have failed. Are you sure?
I only want some chips.
"I will call the managers.Then tomorrow I'll tell you when we can schedule our first meeting in this "" new style. """
... Who you were with? I didn ’ t know whom you were with.
It’s my treat this time.
The water there looks so dirty.
It fits fine. I ’ ll take it. How much is it?
What is your favorite computer game?
Honey, why are you so angry? Can you tell me?
You can only buy supplies that you have a budget for. Do you know what your budget is?
I see. Which subject did you put last then?
I'd recommend going back to the 3rd party, personally this time, and discussing what exactly it is they aren't happy with. Hopefully you can reach some sort of agreement, which is viable for everyone.
if you got to class by riding a bicycle every day instead of driving, you will get lots of exercise, too!
Daddy, I want to buy a ten-speed-sportsman.
Sorry, you're right. I think you'll be a good politician.
I'd like you to manage a new online auction site we're building.
Well, sir, I know some of our customers are concerned about cruise control. But Honda has never had a single cruise control malfunction that led to an accident.
I am not sure.
It's a promise.
No problem, sir. What sort of time deposit account would you like to open?
Are you still mad about your nose? How is it?
Oh, let's just hope it stays warm.
really? Maybe I shall also sign up for its membership.
What made you decide on this type of occupation?
I have a little experience. I guided a few foreign tourists around Beijing last year as a part-time job. I showed them to the Great Wall, the Imperial Palace, and the Summer Palace.
You have to take care of this video.
You are excellent.
It should be coming soon.
Do you want to take the jet ski?
This is our rock-bottom price, and we can't make any further reduction.
Can you repair my shoes?
If you wait a minute I can go with you.
I did actually but I think I met some of the friendliest people in China. They soon showed me the way!
anyway, she was right to end things and she deserves better.
OK. You have stayed for four nights at 90 US dollars each, and here are the meals that you had at the hotel. That makes a total of 660 US dollars.
How nice it is here
Noodles are fine. Or maybe I'll have some porridge.
Steven, shall we go shopping tomorrow?
OK. Can you prepare things for the meeting in the meeting room? Make enough copies of the handouts.
What was the score at the end of the game?
Yeah, I think the food is alright, it's not too spicy though it's a little salty for me. But you are Chinese, you should have known better.
Do you think children watch too much Tv?
Otherwise the insurance company would no doubt have entertained your case.
Just because you work for a week doesn ’ t mean that you will be losing your benefits.
Joe? I don't know what you mean.
All right. The fitting room is over there.
OK, I see. Here you are. Is that OK now?
Oh, right. You ’ re in our system. I was just looking under Li. So, we ’ Ve got you down for a Business Suite for three days. If I could just have your credit card, I ’ ll process your check-in while
OK. Two tickets to London, please.
How about your experience?
It doesn't matter, you should have called and let me know.
Hello, how can I be of service?
Maybe that ’ s what I'll do. Thanks a lot.
Yes. Here's my card. Do you need my ID?
Okay. Wish me luck.
Can you introduce the story of The Terminal briefly?
Tasha Mountain? It's very famous in China, isn't?
Yes, of course. If you like the room, call the landlord and confirm the information of the room.
Here is my name card. Thanks.
Probably in a week or two. I'll let you know.
Let's hope it is!
What makes you think there was a break-in?
Congratulations to you.
Could you tell me now some of the things I need to do?
I'd like two sandwiches and one green fruit salad, please.
Dear Mom, please permit of superman's naughty.
Is 9:00 PM all right?
Neither of us is very religious, so we decided not to get married there.
A week ago? They met last summer and now just sink. They will be married soon.
Yeah, let's go Joe's Disco.
Uh huh. How about a used car? They've got good ones now.
It's too difficult to park your car in the city. Also, the traffic coming in from the suburbs is a nightmare.
it costs more than you think to run a car, especially when there are so many things wrong with it!
Yes, it's all taken care of.
Lucy, take my picture here, OK?
My brother started investing money when he was 16 years old.
We use a vacuum cleaner that removes all the dirt, and we throw away all of the trash that we can find.
I'm a student too.
Yes, a dish of cream of wheat.
Hey, Mary, nice to see you again. I heard you're going back home to the U. S..
No, I can't. Perhaps your stewardess will help you to find a place to store it.
Are you going to vote tomorrow?
That restaurant has six parking spaces.
Sure. By the way, here are some free adornments. Would you like one?
We require a jacket and tie.
Yes, of course. Most of the time, when they travel, they prefer to do so in large groups accompanied by a guide, who usually takes care of everything, for instance, choosing the restaurants, the itinerary, the mode of transport, and things like that. Another thing is that most travelers to the UK tend to be middle aged, around 40 to 50 or so. This age group is less adventurous ; they like good hotels, and have money to spend. They kind of prefer to stay in the cities where they feel safer. They are not into mountain climbing in Wales or anything.
We have half-hour and one-hour treatments.
Your BAC exceeds the legal limit.
Can we choose a time to look at houses together?
It's 1 Australian dollar to 6.1 Yuan RIB.
Well, you know me. I can always eat pizza or Spagetti.
Let me take care of the check today.
I hear you're going to Tainan to visit your uncle.
It’s certainly a pretty dress. I can ring you up at the register over here.
Yes, good morning. This is Mr. Suzuki from Video TV. May I speak to Mr. Johnson?
Yes, most of the time. But it snowed a lot in Chicago.
I should not be surprised, many customers have the same opinion. Do you have any suggestion in mind? Our salesman told your secretary that the price could be negotiable.
Oh, I see. Then do you have anything less expensive?
Hope it was worth it.
I'm afraid you're going in the opposite direction. Go back the way you came, and take the second turn on the left. The museum is straight ahead, right in front of you.
that's a good idea. Wish you a great vacation!
I also need to check these books out.
It goes all the way there?
Of course I did. I dreamed to be a pilot when I grow up. But unfortunately, I didn ’ t realize it.
What is that?
I won't make any noise. Mom, please.
What ’ s the area of your country?
I hope you are Settling in at school!
All right. Have a seat, please.Let me ask you a few questions.First of all, may I have your name, please?
$ 900 a month? We don ’ t often have apartment as inexpensive as that. We have one apartment for $ 985 a month today, on Eleventh Avenue. It’s near the municipal buildings.
me. too i like the festival best of all.
You will see the beautiful city.
Will you be getting another copy?
Then, why didn't you try to prevent it in the beginning?
Anything you say, Madam.
Yes, here is my account number.
Here is the catalogue and the price list. You can take a look.
I have a reservation for a single with bath.
We'd better cover the porcelain ware against All Risks.
yes. I can't seem to drink enough.
You finished everything in there, sir?
I need to copy a document immediately.
Hi, waiting for the bus? Where are you going?
When can I contact you about your final decision?
Do you think I could use your car tomorrow? I ’ Ve got a date with this girl, see? And...
So what's it, sir?
I ’ m an engineer.
I fell on the way to school, and your bike got scratched. I'm really sorry.
I feel confused about the grammars.
I'm not sure. Medium, I suppose. Maybe a little on the heavy side.
Thank you so much. You're an expert.
Well yes, I do have a number of questions, but perhaps first you could give me a brief overview I ’ d like to get a little bit of an idea of your background.
I see, so what are we having? Chicken?
What about this pair? They are the ' in ' things now in optical wear. Try them on.
Excuse me. When's the next bus?
A sack of cherries, please.
Well, I can't speak for all universities, but my salary is a definitely lower than at Lemans. I just don't think the salaries are comparable when you leave a major corporation.
Oh, don't worry. I just killed a pigeon.
Hey, Tom, what to go for a run?
I don ’ t have that right now.
Yeah, you are right, but it's really interesting.
Well, here is the money.
No, but I'll be able to tomorrow.
Well, there ’ s one more thing. The telephone is dead.
It is the basement of that red building in front of the tower with big bells.
Are you still at that work?
The company will assign you housing subsidies at 400 yuan a month.
How about lo %? This price is already a little tight, our profit margin is not that large.
They look like running shoes.They have the same shape. And you can use them for running too.But they're not so serious. They aren't designed for serious runners.You can use them for exerce
I'm not sure, but I think it must be directed by Zhang You. That's typical of him.
What's for lunch?
I think you should definitely consider it! This way you won ’ t have to juggle such a busy schedule, and you ’ ll still get to spend time with the kids in the evenings. I can refer you this great
My mother can make some Chinese food.
All right. Another time then.
I'll pay cash, thank you.
You're a quart low.
Excuse me, is there any summer resort around the town?
Yes, it's a family tradition dating back to my childhood. We use the same lights and ornaments, but of course we have a new tree each year.The children made some of these decorations. Here, you can hang this on one of those high branches.
Your products may have certain advantages, but your prices are too stiff.
Thank you. This place is nice.
I ’ ll take one. And here is a dollar.
I don't feel so good, Mom.
Yeah, I think that's what I'm going to have to do.
I ’ d like to talk to you for a second, please.
Is that it?
Only $ 2,100? Okay, let me have one.
Hello, I want to order an Easy-own package. What would you recommend?
One that won't grow up too big.
That ’ s ok. Don ’ t be sorry. We ’ ll talk later.
According to the story, it's some sort of modern dance style.
Umm... that ’ s the thumb, Nick.
What is the best way to find a job here?
Someone busted my window.
Hi, Mary, Hi, Ken I hate to bring this up, but that new stereo, system you got...
I didn't think there would be a problem.
Excellent. We will meet all your conditions if you can meet our demands.
Got any plans after the class?
I hope so.Now let me tell you your duties here.This is your desk.Please sit down.
Do you like miniskirt? It's popular among young girls. The pleated skirt also sells well.
Your address, please.
Why not! Before you know it, I'll be heading off to the mountains to stand on my head!
I'm still not sure about these ' Visible ' Certificates. What's the real difference, except the amounts available?
Yes. Copywriters are supposed to design and write articles for the advertising company.
I feel like having some dumplings. Let's go out to eat.
That will probably be best. Do you need help with directions?
We ’ re in the last stretch of this very exciting race, and Kimmi Rikknen is leading the pack with only four laps to go! They are heading to turn three and Lewis Hamilton tries to pass Rikknen! It’s a close one and, oh no! Hamilton hits the wall!
Really? When will she come back?
I just heard your boy had taken the first place in the history test. He is super cool.
He always wears an extremely becoming suit with tie.
Sure. There's network of canals. And there are white walls, black tiles, small bridges, flowing rivers, flagstones roads, blue sky and white clouds. Few places have preserved the past like this place. Walking on the ancient road makes us back to our sense.
Yes. The ancient custom of holding temple fairs is to offer sacrifices to the god of the earth, and they have developed into a festival filled with food, performances and games now.
That's no problem. The amount is 2,000 RIB, is that correct?
Well, it would be a lot easier to finish if you stopped talking to me.
Sorry, I didn't hear you. Can you say that again please?
That sounds fair.
Then use the xerox machine.
How moving love is.
Two for the front. One last thing, are there any English subtitles for the show?
Well, yes. Thanks, there's no trouble at the moment.
What is your salary at present?
Well, this apartment is really a must-see. Will you come with me to look at it this weekend?
One moment, please, and I will connect your call.
There is a laundry form in your room ars well as a bag.Fill out the form and put them together with the laundry in the bag.The maid will come and pick it up.
Okay. Thanks for your help.
Oh. Where do I need to apply for a visa?
I know, but the geology of the American west is my major interest and I have done a large reading in the field.
Is there any ticket for New York left? I want to go coach.
We can amend it for you as long as your customer agrees to the amendment.
Did this just come on suddenly?
I want to leave home, mum.
OK, thanks. Anything I can do for you?
May I introduce myself? I am steven smith.
I ’ m really lucky to do something I really love.
Forget it, there is no use crying over the spilled milk.
He is out of luck.
I wish I could, but I have to walk the dog and finish cooking so if you would excuse me.
Doris, Helen Mall is having a big sale this weekend. Do you wanna go?
Are there many choices of online shopping?
Yes, it is. It should be enough for any student needs you might have. What department are you in?
that's one of the problems with having an iPod. Though an iPod might have an above average battery life, once the battery is dead, so is your iPod.
What about you?
I took this course last semester too. Now I am taking it again!
Not just a thoughtful granddad, but a generous one too.
I did experience a winter with snow in Kunming, the Spring City.
It sounds great!
Lucky her. Anyway, I think that is just as beautiful.
Well, thanks anyway.
The last thing I want to see is to lose face before my friends.
And what would you like to go with your steak?
You know, I could do this myself. Why don't you go get the screwdriver and the pliers and go fix the vacuum cleaner so it works better?
Well, I have a problem with my class schedule.
I'm sure he could, but I prefer not to bother him. Would my bank do?
Good morning, Ms. Walker. What can I do for you?
If you do this again, don't even bother coming home.
Well, let me know when you can get it fixed. I ’ d love to go for a ride in it!
Bye. See you.
Since the May holiday is the high season, you should probably call ahead to reserve a room. Here ’ s the phone number.
Do I need to pay extra charges for drinks like cola and juice?
I would like to watch the Oscars on Tv tonight. How about you?
Fine, thank you for coming. Mr. Wu, Please take a seat. I am Anne Smith, the assistant manager.
Okay, let me see what we have. For how many?
Yes, I have booked a room for 24th. It's a double room.
I'd like extra prints made of these photos.
Yes. I ’ m sorry.
My dear, what's for supper?
He completed the first 200 / 400 double in Olympic history!
How about Bearer Certificates? Are they different?
I would like to exchange this dress.
I think salary is closely related to the responsibilities of the job. Shall we discuss my responsibilities with your company first?
yes, I banged it against to cooker yesterday. It really hurt, but It’s OK now. the bruise will disappear soon.
A taxi it is. Where will you be headed?
Thank you, Mr. Sandals. We look forward to seeing you in New York!
What's your comment on his new album?
Sure. We attach great importance to the all-round development of the staff, and the development of individuals will motivate them to work more diligently and efficiently.
Hi. What can I get for you?
Sounds very interesting. I'll buy some to family people.
Yes, certainly. I'll be back in a minute.Here you are.
I have trouble understanding all these forms... but I'm sure I'll get it.
Okay. I'll take your word for it.
Certainly. The vegetarian pizza looks pretty good. It must be very delicious.
Are you sure? He is quite young, isn't he?
Stockholders meetings are held biannually. Usually the meetings are scheduled for spring and fall. In between the meetings, each stockholder receives biannual reports. Financial statements are made once a year.
At that time her back was ramrod straight as she sailed by, her tone is best, neither over-passionate, nor too cold.
Thank you. What will the blood test tell you?
I could not agree with you more. For us, there are so many unhappy things and I am so bored ; however, I got lots of fun from stealing.
Better not forget that, so kill you if you don't get her something.
I'll go back home with Danny. You go to the pharmacy again.
Got it. It's so troublesome to have western food. I've been learning the table manners for hours but still can't really it.
Can I also take the MET to get there?
Yes, to tell you the truth. I am on a diet.
Plenty.We never worry about lack of rainwater in our area.
We need to get a car.
It could be and so in that case you might want to eat something perhaps more nutritious or maybe even less of what you do eat. Maybe, I eat three meals a day and I try not to snack in between. No potato chips. No popcorn. No candy bars.
That is merely a dream. Remember, there is always room for us to have further improvement. I think we did the good job in the whole period.
OK. Would you like to file them according to dates?
Good evening, John.
I am sorry that I misheard you.
I see. Well, then perhaps they could give me a few days off after a business trip. It was really tiring for me.
Wonderful! I'll often come here for mountain climbing.
Oh, great! That ’ s at the other end of the terminal!
I saw your green post-it notes. Nobody else has them.
What account will you be depositing this money into?
That's wonderful! We've got to celebrate!
I think there ’ s a Western on.
We sent that bill out a couple of weeks ago.
Here, lift this aluminum pan. It's the same size.
What name is the reservation under?
I want you to cut my hair shorter.
And I can purchase that here?
I'd like a hamburger and a cup of coffee.My room number is 402.
We have beef with rice and fish with noodles. Which would you like?
hi, Isaiah. How are you?
I'm afraid we can ’ t save that one. It will have to come out.
When do you go?
Well, let's take the measurements right now.
You mean he plays well? Yeah, he often scores by free kicks in crucial games. But a football match is by no means merely a show of taking free kicks.
Hello, Claire. This is Mick.
You're welcome. And if you need any other things, please let us know.
not much. I had to pay an unexpected bill, so I needed the money back.
845 lincoln Avenue.
This needs dry-cleaning.Can you remove this stain without harming the fabric?
No, I haven ’ t been out on one interview yet.
Oh, it's hard to narrow it down to just one. I mean, I like all kinds of sports, basketball, swimming, bike riding and so on. Maybe it is just the reason why I am so energetic and vigorous.
Why don't we call them?
I'm sorry about this.
When will your vacation end?
What application materials should I take?
First of all, It’s a romance novel, set in the early 19th century.
You haven't had any experience in either of those fields.
"He said, Pauline is typing letters. She can't speak to you now! "" Then I arrived home at six o'clock yesterday evening. He telephoned again. But I didn ’ t answer the phone! "
What did the young man look like?
That was the only thing that I saw that was wrong with the apartment.
Did you know Carl is almost fifty?
About 3 minutes.
Yes, a buffet breakfast is served every morning. I will need your name and your credit card details in order to complete the reservation.
That ’ s stupid.
I don ’ t think I understand what you mean. Could you explain a little more?
I really admire you, Diana.
No you ’ re not! There are some right here!
I am really interested in buying this television.
I don't know. I feel like going out.
Of course! Let me take it out of my wallet.
Right. Seeing is believing.
What does the paper say?
Well, I want to deposit 2,000 yuan into my account.
You know I'm interested in teaching. I'm looking for jazz students...
I don't have any money to buy you a burrito.
maybe you should invite her over for dinner, so it's just the two of you.
Now, if you'll just sign here, the Mac is all yours.
Search on the Internet then, see if we can find something more about it.
Don't get nervous and freaked out.
If everyone turned up, it would be a squeeze. But a few people said that they couldn ’ t go. So I think it should be OK?
If you do, I will keep your deductible.
Excuse me. What should I wear if I want to go to an interview?
Did you have a fight with Jack?
I ’ ll have the kung PAO chicken, please.
that was the first thing we did. I have a few pictures. Do you want to see them?
OK. You ’ d better come back in two hours.
Oh, so you're thinking about buying a new car?
Great! Can you set the table?
No, we used to be on an industrial estate on the outskirts of York.
Here is our brochure, ma'am. Err... full-size... OK. Please choose a model in this section.
I think I got a sandwich there once before.
Hey, Chillon, I'm just trying to help.
Yes, Florida had great weather while we were there. You look tan, too. Did you go somewhere?
I got my father ’ s goat last night.
Have you ever thought about having children, Kaitlyn?
It's $ 180.
That would be a good shot. Can you take my picture here, dear? Please try to get the garden in the frame as well.
Would you like it rare, medium or well-done?
You need to keep a minimum balance.
well, when I was about 10 years old, I started playing the piano. I think that's how it all started.
No, not for this country.
Yes. When can I get them back?
Isn ’ t he the best instructor? I think he ’ s so hot. Wow! I really feel energized, don ’ t you?
I ’ Ve heard this one before.
I quit smoking, so nonsmoking.
Overbooked? Give up my seat? I don ’ t understand.
Mom, I'm tired. I feel sleepy. I want to go to bed right now.
High hells, please. I want to wear them in formal situations.
What are the branches of Operations?
How about your present pay?
Yeah. Earthquake is one of the most badly natural disasters in the world.
No, But does that matter?
Everything you are doing is perfect.
Sorry to hear that. Can we do anything about it?
Who are you voting for?
lt sounds like the story of my life.
Tell me what it says!
It does seem like the perfect day! I ’ m glad we chose to get out of the city and enjoy the nice weather! This looks like the perfect spot! Ok kids, put on your sunscreen while your mom and I set up ca
I ’ m not looking for excuses here. I just want to get this finished on time!
Well, that all depends on how much you want to invest.
Thank you. I think we may be able to work together in the future.
Forget it. I'll see you at 11:30 am.
Thank you very much. I look forward to seeing you on Friday.
When did you lose it?
It’s my pleasure. I enjoyed working with you.
I can't log on the internet again.
You need to free your disk space. The simplest way is to use a Disk-Cleanup tool to remove temporary files and in store programs that you no longer use. Things should be fine next time you start. You also need to control what starts up. There is a program calls Start-up Delayer, It can help to set after how much time programs should be loaded after Windows boosts. For example, you can choose to set your Fox Mail program to load 30 seconds after Windows starts up.
Oh, my God, is there any fixed for mat for it-the one that I just need to fix my information in?
Would you like me to make something?
I'll be there on time.
Oh honey, I tell you good news. The apartment I looked at today was pretty decent, around 120 square meters.
That man's really a bore to me.
All right. When can we meet again for more specific details, Ms Chi?
What about the driving license?
Did the chairman ask for me?
Please wait a moment. Let me check for you.The flight is FW 711 and it arrives at 10:00 am.
I'd like to, but I'm not sure if I'll have enough money.
That would be the real proof. Didn't we have to show ID to get on the plane?
That's the last time I'm trusting you with the transportation.
Excuse me, Miss.What did the announcement say?
First, about the terms of payment. Your draft contract says that payment is to be made by D \ A. This is not our practice. We prefer to have the payment made by L \ C through a negotiating bank in America.
No, I ‘ Ve been waiting for ages.
The problem is the split ends.
What? Why? Can ’ t you renew it?
Yes, thank you. I just want to have a smoke. Can I smoke in the aisle?
Let me see that. I didn't get one when I came in.
Promise that you won't get angry.
No, it's at counter 1, right over there.
Certainly, I ’ ll make an appointment for you with Mr. Jordan of the Egypt National Native Produce and Animal By-products Import and Export Corporation.
So Beth, what kind of music do you listen to?
so, shall we allow three hours to cover the distance?
Please sign the back of the check.
I'm doing well, and you?
Are you flying home?
Really, where did you get it?
Have you done any work in this field?
Thanks. I'm sorry to say that you need to get this stamped. There is no stamp on this slip and it is essential before I can process it for you.
It's good, and it's easy to make.
The essence of filing I remember is to bring together in a single folder or file all papers relating to a particular subject. And outgoing and incoming letters are kept in this file cabinet.
That's all. Have a nice stay here.
Did you bring some lunch with you?
Just asking? But why is your face burning like mad? Aha, someone has a crush on Anny, doesn't he?
Did they say for how long?
I like to take the tests that they print in this magazine.
This is a really great place to watch a baseball game.
No, thank you. I have brought some.
That's true. But our staff meetings are very important, Arnold. I don't know how we can function without them.
Did they ask you to send the files beforehand?
Is it really going to take that long, will you rush the order?
What does his dad say?
You'll recover after a good night's sleep.
Hey, that coffee shop's lights are still on.
Of course. I will try to buy some things at the Asian grocery down the block too.Then I can do a little cooking in my apartment.
I wonder if I can see your mother, little boy. Is she engaged?
I ’ m not sure. Why don ’ t you believe there is a god?
Really? What is it?
wow, this question is hard to answer. I don ’ t think I ’ Ve ever had a job that I really disliked. But I dislike work that is monotonous, always the same from day to day. I like to move around and do different things.
Why are you so quiet?
How many pounds do you need?
Good morning. Thank you for the interview.
Have you worked anywhere else before?
It's going to be $ 55.
Without a doubt. Relevant department will try their best.
I am applying for the waiter in your pub.
I want to try something different today.
I see. okay, well let ’ s move on to discuss your education shall we?
First you have to put the car into gear. Move this shifter so the arrow points at D for drive.
Soda is really bad for you.
How long has it been since we last saw each other?
We'd like to look around the town. Can you tell me the best sightseeing route to take?
There's a problem with my credit card.
Chicken soup again?
No. They will tell you the same thing in a worse way.
I see. Are there any building more than 200 years old in your city?
Yes. Your gold necklace has a diamond pendant, and your eardrops should be
That means you have to pay a membership fee to shop there. I have heard they have very good prices on electronics.
OK, OK, this is good. Keep talking. What about cappuccino and all those other drinks?
I can ’ t see anything out of the side mirror on your side of the car. Could you move it forward a bit, please?
Do you always go on business or do you sometimes go for a holiday?
You always say that, but we never win anything! What will you do if you win a lot of money?
Speaking. Who's calling, please?
The government should show that it is using money efficiently. Sometimes you hear about how the government has wasted money on a project.
Oh, that's terrible! What bad luck! I wish we had never come to this country.But, if it isn't the strikes and the revolutionaries, it's the earthquakes.Our operations here are finished!
I have a resume here.
I think you ’ re right. I think we have a very good athletics team. They should do well in the Olympics. How many medals do you think we ’ ll win?
I'm going to have some people over for dinner Saturday night.Would you like to join us?
I really appreciate you for having invited me.
What exactly does that mean?
Yeah, and all those fun summer sports and activities.
That's pretty interesting. Did you get one from Haven? The reason I ask is that I am looking for her number.
Would you like to play tennis with me?
You're kidding! You've always hated cooking!
Mr.Wang, we haven't discussed the mode of payment.
I see.That ’ s all right. Don ’ t put the blame on yourself.
I'm afraid he's having an important meeting now. Can I help you?
We should write our skills and let the company know we are competent for the job.
Well, maybe they've got a point. I mean, I suspect that they think the same about us.
Can you tell me which credit card it was for?
yeah. That was a strange party. Can you still do any of those yo-yo tricks?
"actually, this is a kind of addiction called "" infomania "" or "" information overload ""."
Yes, the main stockholder is International Business Machines Corporation, namely, IBM for short.
Hello, Sir. We haven't seen you for quite a while. So, what is it today that we can do for you?
Oh, you have recommended yourself very well. I should think about how to recommend myself as well.
Just a second. I'll go get some. Then you need to send the file. Make sure you choose the right printer. We have a few here and you're hooked up to all of them.
We share the same bathroom, in other words.
Totally agree. By the way, the number of the telephone on your desk is extension 506. You can pick up your office supplies from the supply room at the end of the corridor.
Yes, I want to know about the Normandy Landing.
You're right--Italian! Ha! Ha! I was trying to trick you, but you didn't fall for it!
Oh, I see.Since I'm a heavy smoker, may I change my seat?
I have to get an BELTS score of 7.5 overall. Do you think I can do that?
Just a moment, please.Yes, I can let you have Room 560 with a view of the sea.
When did you begin to drink?
Actually, I ’ m vegetarian so I ’ d like to have the bean curd.
Why doesn't he meet us outside?
Never mind. After all he is not so attractive as Yao Ming, right?
I don't think so.It ' s impossible to equate wealth and happiness.
I don ’ t want a mink coat! I want to see the world.
Yes, I did. Besides, here are all the reports and materials handed out in the meeting. I think you'll have to do some replies.
Well, actually I failed to meet a deadline last week and I forgot to answer an e-mail for a VIP customer yesterday.
Send me up three bottles each of Perrier and Jim Beam.
I think it's because of your bad habits!
The Old Town, the Distillery Historic District, the Financial District and Underground City, everything is so attractive.
25th Sep? Oh, I have an appointment tonight.
But I have an appointment with Ann.
Oh, there is a sales promotion for it now.
Why do you think so?
I'm going to go rest for a little bit.
In that case, eight o'clock is fine.
why are you choosing to leave a foreign country? Many people are reluctant to leave the superior living environment abroad.
It should be under Steve Johnson.
Will I be informed when my friend gets the letter?
I think I might go and find me my own pair of Chucks.
Oh, How annoying!
It’s really very good.
That ’ s fine. I can make that.
She's not good at remembering things. We have a date, and she's an hour late!!
Wow, that looks beautiful.
You have to brew the grinds while they're fresh and drink it immediately for the best flavor.
Oh, as simple as that! I shall never wait for a real person again, these machines are wonderful.
B :: Miao Eng! I'd know that voice anywhere. What can I do for you? Any problems?
Yes, let me see some of your hats, please.
I think Pond's is the best.
I can see that you are trying, but where do you think you could improve?
We had seven, but we sold one this morning.
Hello, this is Michael. I'd like to speak to Mr. Wood.
Is it possible for someone to come a little earlier?
It doesn't cost anything for the pass.
Yes, Ma'am. Here we are.
This pair is Rolex, right?
There are several good clubs near the city centre. Many people in my city prefer something more ’ cultural ”, so we several theatres and venues for classical music concerts and operas.
No, You're got on the wrong bus. You can take a No. 22 bus at the University station and then transfer to a No. 83 bus at the railway station.
May I have a look at your costume?
I think it's a basketball match on channel 5.
I need to stop eating such unhealthy foods.
Because... I heard John got married yesterday.
Hello. Can I ask what steps I have to go through in applying for the job?
I want to have a car like that. But I am not rich. And I don ’ t have a rich daddy.
Someone ought to clean it today.
I want to ask you what your policy is on gay marriage.
Well, I almost always get up very early, and I lift weights for an hour.
Thanks for coming.
You can buy credit on the hotel website or at the business centre.
Party all night? Hotel California? No kidding. Anyway, what's the room charge?
Certainly. How much will you be exchanging today?
Her ex-boyfriend was terrible, but this new one is even worse!
It's a great idea. I can't believe I didn't think of this earlier. Going on a diet with a friend to back you up is a great way to succeed.
Well, What kind of movies do you like?
How is it you don ’ t know?
My feeling's exactly.
You know what? You won't get a rush from it until you fully understand it. It is a simple sport and doesn't require skills of any sort. This leaves room for me to enjoy the beautiful suburban scenery while jogging. Fresh air caresses my face and blows into my chest, which translates into inspirations. Inspirations are really good stuff for a writer like me. Sometimes, I even come up with a verse or two.
We will be checking for blood sugar, cholesterol, and white blood cell count.
Sure. Hi, Monica, Richard again. Have you ever heard about our company? It is an international one with good reputation. We have a lot of successful cases. If you ’ re trying advance your career, I would love to help you. XYZ Company is one of our clients. They ’ re in need of the talent like you. Would you be interested in taking part in an interview? It is scheduled some time within this week.
Well, let me check. We delivered four bags to room 1106, you friend's room about an hour ago.
Don't worry. I will find someone to assist you.
I am calling to inform you that we have arranged an interview for this accountant position at 2 PM this Thursday afternoon. Please come on time.
My little brother likes to play with him. He even gives him a bath every week.
I've worked here for two years. And I want to do something different.
We still offer a traditional retirement plan that pays out if you stay with the company for 5 years or more.
I think I will call the office to send someone to meet us, and escort that person to the nearest hospital without interrupting our trip.
Oh, we need your resume, health report, three photographs and several letters of recommendation. Would you please send them to us by next Wednesday?
Hi, Tom.Want a cup of coffee?
What's tomorrow?
No problem. Hope to see you again soon.
Good morning, Miss.
Do you need any other documentation from me?
From 9A. M. to 5 P. M.
AC Milan versus Real Madrid.
Oh dear. Maybe you ’ Ve caught a cold.
Do we need to book a table in advance?
Well, that's kind of obvious.
I am sorry, madam. I didn't hear you. It's too noisy here. Could you please say it again?
I like it very much.
I use short messages quite a lot. If it's not too complicated I will send a short message, which can save much phone charge.
Please register your information here and pay for it. And I ’ ll make a medical record for you.
Um yeah.Sorry about that.
But I said thursday.The tickets are for thursday evening.
I have a package to post today.
Do you want it with everything?
Hey Jack. What's going on?
T / T? What on earth is that! ? Sorry, but I've never heard of it. T / T?
Awesome, we went to Australia and New Zealand.
I can ’ t vote on Tuesday.
Hello, everybody. I am Monica and this is my first day at work. I am working in the finance department. I am very happy to meet everyone and I am looking forward to working well with all of you. I am very happy to be one of the team and I will do my best to get into the working situation as soon as possible. By the way, call me Monica. Everybody calls me so.
Hi there. Welcome to Lincoln Corporate Services. How can we help?
Certainly, the mirror is right here.
Nine would be perfect. I'll see you then!
And you should have good co-operation with other colleagues, you know a scientific schedule brings efficiency to the work.
I don't think that you're done.
I had a bad day yesterday.
Sure. Why not?
You're a really good cook.
Are you sure that this has nothing to do with sleep?
I just think you ’ re trying to change the subject. But go ahead.
you can find out from their friends.
My IQ score is slightly above average.
Oh, do you go hiking often?
Take it easy. I have the confidence to learn it well.
Because I have given him up as a bad job. Our relation has been over.
Yes, the Perrier and the Jim Beam hit the spot. Let me have three more of each.
How scary can it be? Come on, it'll be fun.
perhaps we could go to the library festival that's going on at the local bookshop.
It's a lot of money. But the picture is excellent, I'll take it.
Thanks for the pizza. It was delicious.
Hi Mary. We are really looking forward to a great meal here.
Sunday papers. I usually read them after coming back home from our company.
Another thing is that every six months we would like to receive from you a detailed report on current market conditions and the users comments on our products.
Thank you.But I will call her later.
That is the special word for the ritual of the bread and wine.The Catholics call it the Eucharist.
Sorry, I can ’ t hear you. Could you please speak up a little?
Ok, Jason. So how was the flight?
So why are you dieting this time anyway? Another guy?
Mary and I will be driving the van.
You know the car I'm driving, which is still in good condition though it is second-hand. And it only cost me 300 dollars. It was so cheap.
Yes, he ’ s too old to believe in that type of things. And I ’ d rather tell him before the kids at school do.
what do you think would make you happier?
Good afternoon! Where to?
what do you think about it?
Oh, I ’ m not. I ’ Ve never had a music class before.
Paranoid? I ’ m not paranoid! I ’ m cautious! You see Dan, we have to be on guard at all time! People just invade your privacy as if they knew you! Telemarketers, solicitors, even your bank! They have way too much information! I like to keep everything on a need to know basis.
In three months or so?
Gosh! The water faucet is dripping badly again.
I ’ m sorry she is not in at the moment. Can I take a message?
Hello. Is that Nicholas?
You know what? I've recently been teaching myself French.
Hi. John, It’s Emily. How ’ s everything?
Hop in, please.
how about this scarf, these earrings, and an anklet?
Yes, actually I fell skiing last week and hit my head.
When are you returning home?
Stop worrying, Mary. You'll do just fine.
Wait, will I have five insurances and one fund?
Excuse me, sir.You are not supposed to smoke here.
You ’ re right. I ’ ll save the beer for when we land. One orange juice, please.
Well, just make sure to go through the double doors, and I'll be on the right.
Not so good, though his nephew took him to hospital in time.
I promise if you lend me five dollars today, I will repay you in full next week.
Hello. I am calling to apply for the job as an airlines staff. I'd like to check it. Is it part-time or a full-time job?
That ’ s the way to go.
I thought I asked you to clean your room earlier.
Don ’ t buy him underwear again. He hates that.
I really admire you for that. How is it going?
Of course.How do you like your room?
Why not? If I were you, I certainly would.
This is my uncle, Charles.
Hurry up! Time is money!
How long have you been learning it?
It's fine today.
Great, I'll take one.
Okay. That will be thirty-four dollars and fifty cents.
Well, the hero is a Super Warrior. He has to fight the bad guys to find the treasure.
We don't use any fossil fuels. Most of our power comes from hydro-electric plants. We're hoping to use even more energy from alternative sources in the future - perhaps even wind power.
OK. look, I've typed driver schools, and there are so many results coming out.
really? so you don't have fried food at all.
Well, let's see. I'd like to go to the Summer Palace.
I thought it would be easy, but I didn't pass it.
Everywhere I look, I see cockroaches.
What do you do there... hang around, like the kids?
Oh, how nice! There are bright rooms and the house is very quiet.
Oh, sorry, I can't. I'm going to work late tonight. I have to finish this report.
She had a very impressive resume, but she seemed to lack the confidence that I think a good manager needs.
It will be for business dinner. Reserve it under the name of Nova, the manager of Fashion Clothes Company.
Graham, why are you always on the phone with Jane?
Actually, the factory is located in Scotland.
It is true. I think we should change some policies.
Just a moment, PLS. I'll write out a receipt for you.
Tax brings your total to $ 32.42. How would you like to pay?
Eating here, please.
Not really. It's a very comprehensive warranty. I ’ ll put a copy in the post to you and you can read through the small print.
True, but that's not all. The ball went through the window and hit the vase she has in her front window...
How could you manage to pass the exam?
Let's see how much the bill is.
I'd like to check out.
I know. Our train system is lousy.And besides, Americans love their cars too much.
One moment, please. I have to check if there are room available. I ’ m sorry ladies. We have only two double room available, but they are on different floors. Would you mind that?
It's all yours after you sign here, please.
It's beautiful 75 degrees.
Oh, it's really a drag.
Did I do well on my driving test?
I'm doing my best, Grandma...
Sorry to have given you trouble.
What about Mao Tai, one of the most famous liquors in China? It's good indeed. It never goes to the head.
Is that class really that popular?
I see from the computer that you are a frequent guest here. Do you have your loyalty card?
I stick to my principles and keep to the rules. Sometimes, they just lack enthusiasm and I get them involved with something constructive. Some of them change their attitude later.
I heard you will be going on a business trip.
you must have a high IQ score.
What if there's something wrong with it?
No problem! All those deductions do add up, and nobody's net pay is as high as they'd like. I can understand why you'd want some explanation.
Yes, but life without chips, ice cream and coca cola is boring.
Hello, Rebecca, fancy meeting you here!
How about the one after that?
Juliet, Juliet Berman.
What do you say to eating out, Maggie?
Hey, Sandy. Do you want to go to the ETV with us?
Hello! You have reached the offices of Maddox and McKnight, can I help you?
Well, I admit. The ghosts were scary.
Excuse me, can I change my order? I am afraid I don't have so much time to enjoy my dinner.
Sure. What ’ s it about?
I can write computer programs, I have a good command of secretarial skills.
That would be terrible.
I know. I figure as long as there is nothing wrong, why go see the doctor?
I don't want to argue anymore. Please get out of my life!
You dance well. Do you breakdance?
What's your plan for your future?
People are very kind down your way. You ’ re lucky.
Okay, throw in a piece of that pie then.
There ’ re traffic jams everywhere.
Let me see. Akha. No, I guess I ’ ll be free.
OK.It ' s delightful to have a walk in the park with the air so fresh.
No, madam. May I help you?
Yes! Thank goodness you ’ re here.These bugs are driving us crazy!
This automobile is just right for your needs because not only is it compact for ease in city driving, but also, it has many safety features. I know that as a parent, you are concerned about safety in driving your kids to and from school.
I ’ m thinking about redecorating my bedroom. I bought this magazine in order to get some ideas. What do you think of this?
I'm sorry for being late.
We are sorry to bring you so much trouble.
OK, let's have a try.
Your muscles are a spectacle!
Please have a seat. I know our employment of forcer has already given you the information about your employee contract, but I'd like to go over the main details again before signing. First, you'll be getting a monthly salary, with one month paid vacation after one year of service.
Yes. I ’ m looking forward to it.
Yes, trying to keep track of all the characters was quite confusing for me.
Oh, yes. I had a look yesterday. I found some of the exhibits to be fine in quality and beautiful in design. The exhibition has successfully displayed to me what your corporation handles. I ’ Ve gone over the catalogue and the pamphlets enclosed in your last letter. I ’ Ve got some idea of your exports. I ’ m interested in your silk blouses.
yeah, I worked as temporary staff in her concert. Look, her poster, a CD...
No, I ’ m going to the airport to meet some friends from Beijing.
Thanks. Who do I call for trash collection?
I'm Jack in Room 606. Can you change the room for me? It's too noisy. My friend was woken up several times by the noise from upstairs. He said it was too much for him.
No, you don't have to. Here comes the train. Be careful! Subway doors open and close automatically.
Economy fare for single ticket from Beijing to Shanghai is 500 yuan.
Why did you pick this organization?
My name is Jennifer Smith. My phone number is 610-934-9901.
Good idea. Have you written down tea, eggs and potatoes?
Really? He deserves it! They should teach him a good lesson.
So did I. At first, I thought it was going to be boring, but then it turned to be good.
Anna, that outfit looks wonderful on you! The color goes with your trousers perfectly.
How did you get involved in something like that?
I suggest the arbitration be held in a third country.
What is there in the air?
Anything else I should know?
It has fifty parking spaces.
have you seen the new Cosmo magazine that I was reading this morning?
Are you going to have a birthday party?
Could I ask you some questions?
Oh, Parker with a P?
Oh, what a pity!
How much money are you going to transfer today?
We take Visa and Master Card.
Same old thing.What about a drink?
Do you mind going on frequent business trips?
Is there anything you can do for me? If I don ’ t make it to shanghai in time, my wife is going go kill me.
His records have been sold out. The new copies will be available next week.
No problem. What are you looking for?
No trouble at all. May I know your name and room number?
Are you enjoying it there?
no, that would be crazy. But then who will it be? Oh dear, it must be me. I should have known it! Why else would he have talked to me alone about the downsizing. What should I do? I've got a family t
You are late again, Maria. The teacher is about to come.
How come? Last time I saw you. You told me it was a good job, and you'd like to take it as a career. That was only one month ago. Why this sudden change?
I'll go and talk to my professor or a learning support assistant.
Mmm... Well we could go to that new art gallery instead.
we did, but since she started her new job, all she does is hang out with her new friends from work.
The ice will soon be thick enough for skating. I am so fond of winter sports.
Who started the modern Olympics?
Unemployment in my country is a fraction of that.
Not much. Last night I met this great guy at the bar and we had such a wonderful time that we decided to meet again tonight.
Yes! How do you know that?
OK, thank you very much.
She was a cute 8 pounds 6 ounces.
Would you please recommend some Chinese wine?
What do I do now?
One of the common uses of PC is that people can buy goods through it without going out to the physical stores.
Where do you have to go.
Wow, it has a balcony.
Yes, I worked as a doctor at Beijing People's Hospital.
Here, Let me get the door for you.
That's fine. By the way, please have that suit dry cleaned.
Hey, May, look, Is that the the poster of the movie we saw yesterday?
I think I need a thorough check-up.
That ’ s the flower girl and the ring bearer. I ’ m pretty sure they ’ re the groom ’ s niece and nephew. Oh, they look so cute!
That's because you cheated.
Bob refused all his classmates ' invitation.
Do you have the letter of approval of employment?
Really? The day after tomorrow? That's very soon.
What about tomorrow morning, then?
Well. I ’ m rather disappointed with it.
And please sent this letter by registered mail.
We try to use as little packaging as possible. Also, all our bottles are made of recyclable plastic and we use recycled fibre in our boxes. That's what our customers want.
Well. It's not all my fault, Anna...
I would like to make an appointment for a project meeting.
Oh, sure. Credit card is fine.
Well, we can't break tradition! It's bad luck!
Then I can go to this appointed dealer, see what they've got and then make a decision?
How do you shoot pool?
Hi Tom! I'm fine, and you?
I'm giving you a ticket for this.
I see. How about buying and selling items?
All the beauties who entered the contest were over 80kg.
Better start swimming! we've got to find a way to outsmart the other guys. I want a preliminarily strategic marketing plan on my desk by next Tuesday... the competition never sleeps and neither should we.
Let's go then. On the way we have to turn right and right again at the next junction.
Jim, I heard you ’ Ve bought a new computer.
Well, do what you like.There are different kinds of New Balance shoes though.You don't have to buy the most expensive.
I hear that Mary got mad.
I'm sure the output of your production will increase a lot.
Don ’ t be kidding, OK?
But there won't be anything good left.
He ’ s fine, Thanks. How ’ s Emma?
I'm so sorry about your brother, Mr. Wang.
A 15 - inch monitor is included in the deal. If you want, you can switch it for a 17 - inch monitor, for a little more money.
What is very difficult to gather team player together.
I like playing games and having sports. They are my favourite hobbies.
Do you think that my job pays unemployment?
Not at all, Mr Zu. As the certificate is due in 2 months, you can get the loan on mortgage of that certificate.
Thanks for the vote of confidence, Justin!
Mark! I was wondering if you finished that presentation you were working on last week?
Don't you think that it'd be a good thing for you to get out of the office foe a couple of days?
This is Michael Richard speaking. Who is calling?
Have you noticed what has changed?
Either call this extension number 0085 or ask them to send the fax to you as e-mail, you print it out.
It sounds quite simple. Next time when I travel abroad, I will apply for this kind of check too.
Excuse me, Mr. Emory?
Here are the letter and the money.
No problem, man.
right now, there are three bedrooms, two barrooms, a kitchen, a sitting room, a dining room, and a living room. We're hoping to add on a green room and a guest bedroom. In fact, when the guest room i
Nope. That's everything, thanks.
Not really, I like watching horror movies, like ' The Unborn. '
It will be our turn soon.
Why not, thank you. A little tea would be nice.
' Please don't enter the bamboo groves. ' We're not allowed to go in.
Well, I've got a date. Now I need to find a restaurant. Can you help me?
I think I going to need some iced water too. Is there an extra charge for that?
I prefer boxing to beef.
Oh, no wonder you are healthy.
The rent is $ 725 each month.
Yes, we must. What have you been doing since I last saw you?
Later will do.
Fine. Here's my receipt. I'd better be able to use this anywhere in the store.
My working hours aren ’ t fixed, sometimes I do the day shift, sometimes the night shift. In all, about 8 hours.
Well, today your doctor wants us to check your white blood cell count.
How about this set?
thanks a lot.
Bring them back to the circulation desk and renew them.
I'd like to start by talking about prices.
No, I'm sorry. I don't think it is nice to have butterflies mounted in boxes.It is kind of disgusting.
Maybe next weekend. I went to bed too late last night.
I know what you mean. I can't stand computer geeks.
Why did it go down so much?
And I will bring my textbook and a tape recorder. I would like to record some things so I can practice on my own.
Well, everything seems to be just about ready. Now all we need is snow.Do you exchange the presents in the morning?
Do you have an account this bank, sir?
How hard is the climb?
No, Rick is actually my great uncle, so he is my grandmother's brother.
The worker stadium.
Keep in touch then, OK?
The prices are clearly marked on the back of each mask. Would you like me to get one down for you to look at?
Sure. 3 thirty this afternoon.
Mom, I'll be finished soon.
No, I have to do this ; it's important!
I think sound is even more important! Guns, bombs, sirens--that's what makes a movie exciting!
Ok, here ’ s a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get all the groceries for tonight. You can sweep and mop the floors. Oh, and the furniture needs to be dusted.
There's quite a large difference. I mean, if you were to use demand deposit we could give you 0.13 % interest, but for a time deposit, of say, 1 year we would offer 0.82 %.
No. We usually go to places that have specials. Dante's over on the Ave has $ 5.00 pitchers on Mondays. So for ten, fifteen bucks, I can get a lot of drinks.
OK, that will be twenty-five dollars. How would you like to pay for it?
Your family must be busy shopping for Christmas, now.
Mary, I'd like you to meet Richard, Our new executive in the marketing.
That ’ s expensive.
I'm sorry. I won't do it again.
Really? You are so kind.
I hope you can show me your CPA certificate before we reach a decision by the end of July.
Lily, do you know Lizzy?
It seems that it may rain today.
Many kinds of books. When I was a child in elementary school, I enjoyed reading fables and science fiction. When I became to a teenager at middle school, I was interested in detective mystery stories. Now I like reading romance stories.
Good afternoon, Miss. What can I do for you?
We are sorry for the delay, ma ’ am. Could you hold the line, please? I ’ ll check your order.
OK, Where can I find one?
You might want to try the mangoes.
I'm really sorry, I'll bring you a hot one right away.
Next is a ballet performance, but who is the dancer?
lt's about 180C, but in winter the temperature may fall to 10-15 degrees below zero. And we have a long winter.
You seem to have picked up some kind of infection.
They're just gifts I bought. Don't worry. They are not heavy.
Yes. I like gardening.
It was nice talking to you.
Then how are you gonna deal with the problem of getting extra weight?
Which sports are popular in your country?
Ok. Then well bring it over to you tomorrow morning. You'll sign it first, so it will only need my signature. Is that agreeable to you?
How much would this parcel cost me by airmail?
He is an extrovert while she is an introvert. He likes parties while she hates them.
No. Not really.
Anyway, let's just finish out job and get back home.
Hi, Customer Service Desk. What can I do for you today, sir?
And the restaurant are excellent... but they're kind of expensive.
Alright, Mom. Should I turn off the TV right now?
The one in the red shirt?
When shooting a gun, accuracy is very important.
have you heard about the photography exhibit that's going on at the art gallery this weekend?
I'm fond of dancing.
OK, everyone. Gather around. Here are the rules. No tackling. No pushing.
I don't dare ask Jane for a date.
Then, what would make you feel more comfortable?
The swim stations are open daily from 7 a. m. to 10 p. m.
OK. Let ’ s go over there. For the Lantern Festival, you should never omit the Yuanxiao.
I ’ m doing well.
Hi, Mark! Long time no see!
It was great. The director took a lot of care while framing. They say be has good chance at winning the Oscar for best director. Also I like the actors, some really great new young actors.
I hope not! Oh, I see.
Well, sounds very attractive. I just tried their vanilla milkshake last time, and it was really delicious.
He thought he could take Jimmy in, but you know, Jimmy is no fool.
Sure they are. Some hi-tech devices are built in to make sure they pollute less. Some of these green cars have not become standard. So the production costs are still high. But anyway, we should make efforts to start with.
There are things that are actually even smaller than atoms.
Of course. We ’ Ve got this style here that is very popular. Because It’s an open-toe shoe, you can wear it any time of the year. They look great on everyone.
How much would you like to withdraw?
Not only that!
You ran into my car.
My current salary is in the range of fifty thousand yuan.
And you'd better not cry or you'll have black streaks running down your face.
Good afternoon madam. What can I do for you?
5o dollars. Later you have to place your ticket near the sensor.
You can greatly improve your grades by always reflecting on what you can improve on.
Let ’ s meet in front of the train station.
OK. Keep me informed. Jt must be ready on time.
I will keep my room clean, too. That's a promise.
The early bird gets the worm.
Wow, like how do they train the dogs?
That is OK. We have photo taking service here. You may pay your fee, take a photo there and take it back here.
Don't be nosey.
It gives you money?
What sandwich did you order?
You are in luck. We just receive a shipment of several different styles of white purses.
Me, too. What would you like to do?
I want to go try on these clothes.
What's next?
Yes, they all stop at this corner.
What would your colleagues say about you?
No, not really, but I think I have lost my wallet. Where can it be?
I'm calling to notify you that an Export L / C has arrived for you.
Thank you. Good night.
I want to have a haircut.
In that case, formal suit with a nice tie will be better.
I think someone is stalking me.
No, you give a wrong number.
Why were you in Japan?
I read that the number of animals being used in experiments is falling dramatically as new techniques are being introduced.
Yes, I will find one for you. Here you are. It's made of exceptionally good quality, pure wool, and is very soft.
I bought a house recently and would like to insure it and its content.
How do I turn it on?
Predictable! How! Come on Dick, It’s a G-rated movie! It’s for the kids! It’s not a thriller!
Yes, sir. We are looking forward to your coming.
Yes, the snow is often falling thick and fast here.
They're right upstairs.
No, I was good at the long jump. I liked the sprints best.
My first time. I've traveled around Europe a lot, but this was my first time to Spain. It was amazing, and the weather was just beautiful! No rain, and just sun, sun, sun...
I ’ m sorry.
Honey, don't tell me that you want a pet dog also.
In case you didn't know, I'm checking out in half an hour.
Ok. Thanks for that information.
Thank you.And where can I buy some delicatessen?
No problem. Could I have the cash and your Bank Book, please? Oh dear... there seems to be some problems here...
Will you please pose for your picture?
Oh, Jim. I told you. No pets. It'll make a mess of this house.
All right.Here you are.
How do you know whether you should hit the solid or the striped one?
Not necessarily. It depends on the contract stipulations. They may be marketed in the foreign country where the other party is located, or even in a third country.
It's not special. It can be seen everywhere.
Yes, twice now. I think it's too high-tech, and so it's the first part that breaks.
well, are there any other advantages?
Hey, Devi, have you thought about where would you like to go to dinner on Friday for your birthday?
yes, it's got wireless Internet access.
Oh, I see. Umm, how much do you want for the quilt?
Do you know where I can find the application form?
yes, but I didn't really like the third one at all.
That will be perfect.
Sure.Thank you very much.
I suggest you get off at the next stop and ask again at the station.
When did you begin to smoke?
We're going to do something about it.
My printer is broken. Can you print up a copy for me?
Could I trouble you for a minute, Mr. Graham?
Sorry. There aren't any tickets available for the 19:00 train.
That girl in my econ class. She is so hot.
Yes. I had a look just now. I found some of the exhibits of excellent quality and beautiful design. I feel we
As your realtor, I am here to take care of this process. How much were you planning on offering?
We have reservations for two at your restaurant tonight.
Then what's the difference between having a crush and falling in love?
Yes, but it's much smaller.
Right. Could you tell us the quantity you require so that we can work out the offer?
How would you deal with those who are not easy to get along with?
What's up, officer?
Ok, try these on in the changing rooms.
Well, we used to talk to each other before we were married. Remember?
I'm sorry. Every customer coming here must do the warm-up exercise before getting down to swimming. That's out regulation.
Yes. You can use your textbook for your reference.
I really dislike reading academic books.
Even better than a private vehicle is a limo. How does that sound?
Brings back memories?
Oh great! This stupid computer froze again! That's the third time today! Hey Samuel, can you come take a look at my PC? It's acting again. It must have a virus or something.
They said I matched the description of a robber.
Yes, this is. May I help you?
Then shall we make it nine o'clock the day after tomorrow morning?
Howdy folks, and welcome to today ’ s game! You know, Rick, today is a key game between Russia and Canada. As you know, the winner will move on to the finals.
What do the Romans do?
I am not being all that particular right now because I just need to keep a roof over my head.
All right. I guess I'll take a taxi then. How long will it take by taxi?
Well then, I'll keep you in the loop. Thank you for your help today.
We'll need two bedrooms. The kitchen and dining room can be separate or combined.
Well, Japanese businessmen and women typically bow to greet each other in Japan. She might have been offended by your strong handshake.
Sure thing. I have an experience like that.
Really! Did she tell you why she didn ’ t show up?
I see. What does it entail? I'm not sure if we will be eligible.
I'm going to listen to the radio.
Don ’ t worry. There are many other options using the internet as dating methods. Some sites operate at international standard even have got certifications. Of course, for these sites, you have to pay a membership fee. But all in all, it is more serious and professional. The chance of meeting a good and serious person who does not play games is higher.
Fine, I'll bring both our office furniture and equipment catalogs on Thursday.
Does the pian become more intense at night?
That's pretty messed up.
Oh, the packing looks very nice.
Wow! Great! Where?
Thank you. Hopefully I won't have to call about him again.
You lose face by refusing to drink, and the host might think you refuse to give him face. The right thing to do seems to be drinking yourself into incoherence until you throw up. This will endear you to your friends.
Brian, a company called me for an interview.
We are ready to help you.
Check with somebody from the IT department. They are anyway in charge of the office electronic equipment.
Would you like rice with your meal?
OK. We will e-mail you all the information you need tomorrow. Have a good day!
Just fine, Karen. I ’ m just taking a breather from all this paper work!
Thank you very much, madam. Here are some samples of our products. Do try them out.
I'm sorry, but we can't take on any responsibility that is beyond our functions and powers. We'll make sure that the packing is seaworthy, but we can't commit ourselves to being responsible for every kind of mishap.
I felt the same at first. Later he told me that I'd better not give him any suggestions when he was sick. Offering unsolicited help or advice is like showing sympathy to the weak or the poor. But back in China, helping others is always regarded being kind.
Get in and close the door.
Great. Rmm, when can I expect to hear from you?
What were the results of the game?
Don't you know that he has been carrying a torch for Mary for years?
I think I'll have two slices of whole wheat.
I thought we were supposed to meet here.
How do you like my new sports car?
On 20th May 1963.
is this line for non-residents?
Does it mean anything?
OK, I'm going to get iTunes and download some Vanilla Ice songs.
Yes. The porter will go and help you.
Yes, I think that rice will go perfectly with my chicken!
I need to speak with David Lin.
Yeah, I don't mind it either. We ’ ll both end up rich slobs and not need it, but what if we do, you know?
I wish I could. But you even don ’ t have a B. A, so I ’ m sorry to say there ’ s no chance.
OK, Mr. Wang, here is your bill. The total amount is US $ 120.
Did you get a chance to speak with the sellers about my counter-offer?
Do you have her address?
Yes, well you haven ’ t had one for... five years. You should have one every year.
What tooth is giving you pain?
Yes, we would be happy to prepare the food to meet your special needs.
The color is too bright.For my age, I would prefer a lighter color.
( Having lunch with Joseph ) Have you ever been invited to a Chinese feast?
Not at all. When you wash it, it will fall into place naturally. You'll probably need another cut in about a month. Shall I make an appointment for you?
I ’ m glad you understand.
There is the company union, but it really shares the same aims as the management.
Next Today. By the way, is there a closed circuit TV?
You're joking!
Maybe I could help you with what you need to get done.
yes, the one with the R $ D team. Is that a problem?
There is something wrong with your card.
Me too, Todd! Thanks for suggesting that great movie.
Are you cold?
A little trimming, please.Trim a little more above the ears.
... OK. And here's your money.
That sounds nice. I can peel the potatoes first.
Yes... with flying colors!
Would you please look at the five routes?
You gave me a deep impression then. Can I help you?
Yes.She teaches our class three times a week.
Well, that's not far away.
Basically, you just can't drive.
Yes, just follow the porter, Mr.Wilson.
I've got my money and my keys, so I'm ready.
I see. Why did you choose our company?
no, I don ’ t think so. I know Mary. Once she makes a decision, she won ’ t change her mind.
no, he is. Some bosses will bend the rules a bit sometimes, but not my boss. He always follows the rules to a T.
All right. Now you can take your case away
Oh, that suits you very well. Besides it is believed in China that the red color brings happiness and good luck.
I come from America. Are you a freshman?
Is that expensive?
Oh, I think I should try to read one.
Thank you for your compliments. It's just that you are a good leader. Do you like the samba and waltz?
No, that way is longer. There are more stop lights on that street.
Yes, I called you last week from New York. My name is George Lee.
Oh, great idea!
Yes. I'd like to book a room, please.
Good morning, Textile Import & Export Company.
Well, don't worry. I ’ ll take care of the business for you. Have fun!
It does. I've learned some Chinese folk songs this way. They are clearly presented and easy to follow.
I like him. He's good for her.
She never cares about others.
Yeah, and they messed my order up too.
That surely will cost you a lot of money. Are you going to make a full payment?
certainly. For how many people?
No, these are all my personal effects.
I could give you a few pointers if you want. I know a lot about coffee.
Mr. : As soon as the bell rings after the morning announcement.
Hi, Helen. Where are you going on this summer vacation?
The radio has too many comerials.
we spent that afternoon walking around a flea market. We had a few coffees, watched a movie, and went for a swim in the pool at the hotel.
Did you hear that?
I don't know ; it kind of looks like we did.
Cafe au lait, cafe latte, cappuccino, cafe mocha... I can't keep them all straight!
I can tell you right now that your prices are a little higher than we expected.
You may rest assured. It sells well.
Yes, it is time to wake up. And, also, from now on I will speak only English to you. And you should speak only English to me, too.
May I pick it up?
It's my pleasure. Please fill out this lost passbook bill and list the code word you used when you first opened your account.
Let me see. The offering price is near or at $ 88.
In a word, dressing and appearance are indeed important, but it should never be all.
Are you going to leave?
I'm afraid not. To me getting in touch with each other has more fun than the coolest computer games or the hottest information.
You look great! However, I think you are a little over dressed for dinner.
It thirty-eight dollars.
Sure. And our theater is located on Liberty Avenue, just opposite the biggest guitar store. Can I have your name?
Why do you leave your present company?
IBA, Client Services Department. Shelley speaking, how can I help?
It sounds nice.
Our special tonight is lobster.
But it's almost midnight!
Every night my roommates watch the Korean soap operas till mid-night. I am not a big fan of Korean shows and I don't know how to tell them to stop without hurting their feelings.
Of course. The warranty period is one year.
You are allowed an additional two carry-on items.
The memo went out three days ago. It should have made it to your in-box, but maybe it got lost in all the clutter on your desk.
I'd like to treat you with acupuncture if you agree.
I need to open a US dollar account, trade with America is going up each year.
It's out in the suburbs.
I'm going to have to do some more research into this. Thanks for your help, bye for now.
I did, Mom.
Will you be done doing my hair soon?
How could we ever manage to buy a big house when we are always living beyond our means?
You mean a guy using enthusiastic and knowledgeable about the computer?
That's too bad. I need to discuss these plans with him.
Mr. Luo, will you hold the line, please - - - Mr. Luo, there is no Zhang at that number. Will you check the number again, please?
Sure, I've picked up a few things from travelling around for work. Why?
How about your nursing education?
Hello, Tom! Do you have plans for this evening?
I ’ m going to need you to fill out the application.
Why not? It's my parking space.
I do. And now I'm working hard to learn English, and I want to be an interpreter some day.
Well, as I said they ’ re the industry leaders, they have a really great growth strategy, amazing development opportunities for employees, and it seems like they have strong corporate governance. They ’ re all about helping companies grow and unleashing potential. I guess their core values and mission really resonated with me. Oh, and they offer six weeks ’ vacation, stock options and bonuses... I ’ m totally going to cash in on that.
I just can't decide where to go. It's not an easy decision to make.
I'll have to write you a ticket and suspend your driver's license for 3 months.
Why can ’ t you give it back to me?
We have waited for a long time. When will we start?
I'm sorry. That's the only available time.
I see. It's a problem most of us face. May I ask what the purchase price is?
What? Why? I mean, we ’ Ve had our ups and downs, and we have the occasional disagreement, but we ’ re happy together, aren ’ t we?
sure. Good luck, Maria!
Thank you. Where should I send your final phone bill?
What do you think are the most important things to do when running a business?
But I'm not sure if they're well-rcceived.
I must weigh it.
Come on, you think about what to wear almost every day. There are thousands of clothes in your wardrobe.
Please take a seat. Everything would be ready in a minute.
Here ’ s an interesting ad, For rent. Two-bedroom, unfurnished house, fenced yard, one-car garage. Pets OK.
I see. We grow a lot of fruit and vegetables in my country. We export a lot of melons, grapes, oranges and lemons. In your country, do you eat corn on the cob? It's very popular in my country.
There will be a refund when I return the card, right?
I ’ ll get an electrician to repair it as soon as possible. Is that everything?
Well, you can just comfort yourself like that.
The count is up to seven right now and several are in critical condition.
The gym is just below the lobby. Take the elevator or the stairs. You can't miss it.
that's true.Just hope Wendy can recover from the pain of divorce soon.
Can I be of any help to you?
Well, I think I was being a little selfish myself. I know they don't get to see each other very often.
I have a problem with this check.
Northward Airlines. Can I help you?
I'm afraid Mr Wilson would like to speak to Mr Brown right now.He ' s got an urgent matter to discuss with Mr Brown without delay.
Why don't you just stick a gun in my ribs and take everything I have?
Yes. Will it hurt us?
Wait a minute. You're a Comp Lit major?
That ’ s too bad. How long was the flight?
There are cockroaches in my room.
I'd better be going.
OK, Madam. We are here to help.
I believe collecting stamps has something similar to traveling right?
Alright. See you later.
Hello, Lucy, I heard you did a good deal in interview.
That ’ s very kind of you. But if I don ’ t go now I ’ ll miss the last bus.
Okay, so we're agreed on 900.
No. I don't have soap.
Actually, if you go to the bus stop in the next block, you can take No. 105 which will let you right off in front of the zoo gate.
Better or worse, it doesn't matter. I had a lot of feelings for him. I really liked him
What is your current occupation?
Well, I use breast stroke for long distance, crawl or free style for short distance and back stroke just for fun.
Thank you for your suggestion.
Oh, what does he look like? Is he tall?
Thank you. Wow, your school has so many honors. Congratulations!
You can't go down on the price?
Hey, honey I ’ m back. Wow, the house looks really good!
I don ’ t dare to look after the children now.
If you'd like, I can send someone to fix it right now.
That ’ d be fine.
What floor is the office on?
Are these four pieces all your luggage?
Uh, yes, they are.
Sure. Where shall I begin?
What do you think we can see during the festival?
Yes. I ’ Ve got a meeting in a minute.
I hope that world leaders can get together and agree on a plan of action, but I doubt it ’ ll happen before It’s too late.
How about drinks? Coffee or tea?
what ’ s that?
I did. But I am so depressed because there is nobody that will help me.
Do you prefer some specific style?
Wow. It's just the two of us. I don't know if we need that much room.
I informed my company and was told that the first five thousand by the end of this month.
Good! Where is it?
I want to watch it, but I was already tired by the time it came on. I had a rest instead, then I watched the news at Channel 11.
I guess that is the thing we can do with we really want to visit the museum.
I need a room with two double beds.
I agree. The service was not good.
One last question-what are your hours?
What is your skin type?
Don't you want to hear more about my statue?
Good. We can contact the Tiana Office Furniture Store, and ask them to install computers in our company, deliver new tables and other furniture to match the function of the computers, and to improve our work atmosphere simultaneously.
What ’ s the date today?
R :: Mr. Aaron Johnson, phone number is 3242-5827. Excuse me, how do you spell your first name?
No. There's makeup remover for waterproof mascara.
Yes, I would like to buy a Walkman. Can you tell me about the models you have?
I took the dog for a walk.
OK. It sounds fine.
I guess so. Now Anna's got four kids and another on the way.
I'll have a double whiskey on the rocks.
I'd like to have further education.Now I am studying for my doctorate.
Great! It's always better to do things with a friend.
We shouldn't have any trouble if we don't get stuck in the traffic jam.
Yes, It does look a bit sore.Let ’ s take your extra way of your chest and give you a few tests.
Yes, a suitcase and carry-on.
Good. Thank you for telling me this.
There are two types of L / C here and I'm not sure which one I want.
Thanks. By the way, tell your wife she throws a great party.
Yeah, you. I just saw you throw a piece of garbage on the ground. Can't you read the No Littering sign? It's a $ 500 penalty for littering, so go pick it up and put it in the garbage can over there.
Hello! How do I get more amenities?
You'll find that out on your court date.
Thank you for a wonderful meal.
Your son was acting up in class.
I'm sure you have the wrong number. This one has been my number for more than 20 years.
Tom, it's time for you to take a shower.
You won't have to pay the fine.
The laundry has sewed on a new button for you.
Then, you're probably addicted.
the meal are always delightful.
Is this taxi taken?
Yes. I've got a small room.
It works if you keep at it. Come on, let's go!
This artists thing is so sus.
That's only part of it. I absolutely adore this director. Every play he works on turns out great.
Is that pesky lady coming to the office again?
Oh, sorry, maybe I gave you the wrong medicine.
What street do I go to to catch it?
They are morning glories. They are cute, aren't they?
Because I want to change my working environment and seek new challenges.
This is the place I was telling you about.
Oh, I see. I think 90 days is more than enough time.
Is that OK?
Today is December twenty-third, two thousand and two.
Yes. In fact, I think it's much better than this week's No. 1.
Oh, then it'll be one dollar twenty five cents. Thank you.
Just relax. That's because you're new to chat. Let me take a look.
Here, sir, sit down in this wheelchair.
... and maybe that's what we both need.
It was after 2 am.
Well, I do prefer the lower emission cars as long as it doesn ’ t cost much. Some environmentally-friendly cars are really expensive.
I know, but hard work pays off. You know.
Red roses are always a popular gift for birthdays.
Oh, you know, tomorrow is Vicky's birthday. I am thinking what gift to give her.
Do you have a special kind of toothbrush that you like to use?
I know, they look very similar.
The price per copy is ten cents.
Hello, Beijing Hotel.
Silk. You have a good taste. It's excellent for its handiness, elegance and beauty.
I wish he could understand. You know what, if this goes on, I think I will get stick like everybody else.
Hold on, let me pull up your version 7 requirements... Oh yes, no wonder our estimate is a little different from what you had in mind. I see the version 7 also includes 6 additional hostesses and a cocktail self-serve bar that wasn't in the version 12. That will definitely add to your cost on this project...
Do you think we should travel by bus or by train?
Is there anything else I can do for you?
Yes, It’s right.
Thank you. I'll bring your order right away.
Gosh, you're right! It's from some guy named Vic. I wonder who he is...
Yes, and seven days a week.
Hello sir, how may I help you?
I missed today's weather forecast over the TV.
About 2 o ’ clock.
You mean 30 push-ups?
Oh, my jump rope. Mom, can you get it for me?
I agree, but I would find it difficult to stop using my car. It's just so convenient.
What is the correct time, please?
They ’ re nice.
I have it already.
how often do you go to the cinema?
Didn't you just finish watching a basketball game on TV?
So? You can go to the class for me.Just write my name on the exam book and take the exam. Why not?
How about ten o'clock tomorrow?
Good Lord! Look at that man.
I'm always interested in how, but seldom pay much attention to who.
Hello, Mr. Stern. This is Hao Bo from the International Travel Agency. I have made the plane reservations for you.
BET has black shows that are overlooked by mainstream white TV.
Well, I believe I ’ m a good team-player, but I can also work well independently. I ’ m very enthusiastic and, well I hope my colleagues would agree, I ’ m fun to work with.
So what does your family do on Christmas Day?
That colored one is very beautiful. It may suit my furniture. How much do you ask for it?
No, it won't.
I'm afraid there is a bit of a problem. in fact, he has booked up the whole week except tomorrow afternoon.
They're painkillers.You take one tablet when you feel a pain, but not more than once within four hours.
Yes, please. I'm a little thirsty, actually.
She is as meek as a lamb. She never goes against anyone or anything. She's as good as gold, you know?
What was she thinking? Did you confront her about it when you saw her?
I'm glad we took the train. I don't like to ride in buses.
I've got a sore throat, a runny nose and a headache.
Yes, flexible, aggressive and creative people are urgently needed in the marketing department.
Of course. A reasonable number of sick days will be covered by the company. Any extended illness will be covered by insurance. Have you read the other terms of the contract?
At least more than 100 years old.
That's because the fashion, taste and social customs and so on vary considerably.
Fine, thanks. How about you?
No problem. Just give us a few minutes more to pull them up, though. We don ’ t get that many English singers!
Well, there ’ s nothing we can ’ t handle. I ’ ll spray the floorboards and walls to get rid of the cockroaches, but the termites will be harder to get rid of. We will have to cover the entire house and fumigate it. Unfortunately that means you will have to find a place to stay for the next three days.
What don't you like about it?
Only for this reason?
And do you know which room the noise is coming from?
I don't think it's realistic. I thought it was sick. Why does a movie have to use that kind of humor?
This can't be the right stop.
Maintaining basic health and safety standards is your responsibility.
Yes, your computer can be easily infected by virus if you do that.
Well, I've been in business for one month now and I have ten clients.
then keep walking until you reach the war memorial. It’s a big statue of a soldier. You can ’ t miss it.
Okay. I'll be back in a minute with your drink and salad.
Nice! So, where did you guys go?
Well, you can keep the vegetables, I ’ ll take the meat. The stir fry my wife made was really hearty, with chunks of beef and slivers of bell peppers and onion...
Canada, China, and the USA are huge too.
Oh, I'm sorry. Let me go back to the cashier's to have it changed. ( a few minutes later, the waiter returns with the new bill. )
Anyway, she was right to end things and she deserves better.
no, some people have Macs now, too.
It happened this morning.
No, sorry, we didn't.
I don't like them. I used to take them when I had to work overtime, you know.
I ’ m fairly busy, so I really need an animal that I don ’ t need to care of very much. Actually, I ’ d like a pet that ’ s a little unusual. I don't ’ really want a typical pet, like a cat, dog, or hamster. Do you have any suggestions?
I can ’ t let you do that.
I want to have Mexican food for dinner.
Sorry, I don't have any coffee.
You are speaking with Professor Clark.
I thought mom said no dating till you are 16.
Bill and Betty have already grown up.
I ’ d buy this if it were cheaper. How about 5 000 yuan?
Yes, I had a look around yesterday. I wish I could have them all. Can you give me a price list with specifications?
Oh, you are such a good child today. Come here. Sit next to me.
I've just got a new printer. How often do I need to replace the print heads?
I'd like my deck to be at the same level as the back door.
Come on. It’s quite safe. You really have no guts.
What do you mean by this? You can ’ t do the two things at the same time.
No, doctor. I've actually put on two pounds.
My father is a middle school teacher.
how about mah-jong?
Say, Jim, how about going for a few beers after dinner?
Do you have your negatives?
Oh, I'm not certain, but I think I've lost it.
OK, what's next then?
Sure. What ’ s your favorite number?
Are they sweet?
Yes. Just look at her colorful feathers. What else can it be?
How did he make a fortune?
She must be an honest person.
It's a pleasure. Good night. Have a good sleep.
I think that looks like a very nice house. Is it on our Internet listing for Open Houses?
I see. And what loan amount are you expecting?
Well, I trust that your presence will hasten the settlement of payment terms.
Yes, I do feel the same way about France. The swift rivers, the fertile valleys, the large cities-its scenery is beautiful. Will you describe the geography of Japan?
Thank you, see you then.
I see. Well, don't forget to talk to the college counselor at the school. He usually gives good advice and can help point you in the right direction.He gave me some information, and next week I'm going to take a look at some of the colleges he recommended.
Here you are, sir. I ’ m sure she ’ ll enjoy them.
Hey there, how are you doing?
Of course we do. It is the landlord ’ s responsibility.
Yes, it is. I usually travel light.
Don ’ t you think it needs about a little taken off and talk to.
I will find one myself, of course. I ’ m a modern girl.
My fault. I didn't realize what time it was.
Of course, no list of film would be complete without animated movies. These are especially popular among children.
apparently, she's being given an award for donating so much money to charity.
Not yet. You should stand still for another few minutes. Late-comers must be recorded.
Well, I hope so. The competition is probably pretty heavy.And they want a writing sample too.
That ’ s one of the main reason we chose that particular house. The kitchen and dining room are together. It’s really large.
Which Channel is it?
Yes, he will.
No problem. Just plug the Ethernet cable into your computer, and you're good to go.
They did. He inherited the money from an uncle. I hope he doesn ’ t lose a lot of it in taxed to the government.
I don't believe it.
Quite satisfied. I'm looking forward to our future cooperation.
Let me see, I am sorry. It's for table 11.
I hear that you are in love with Mike.
That ’ s the funny thing. I don ’ t what ’ s wrong with me. I just feel exhausted.
I watched the race with my children. We saw you run to the finish line. We all screamed with excitement.
I think he is around here. Can you slow down? Ah, there he is.
Have you injured your tooth in any way?
Really? What happened?
Why didn ’ t we choose an office in the CBD?
I like almost all sports, and I enjoy both playing and watching. I especially like tennis and mountain climbing.
I feel it is OK and I want to give it a try.
Yes, besides it versa according to the distance.
That's right, mutton chops taste so good, we eat them with sauce, have you ever tried?
OK... Here we are. We'll turn left at this cross. To go straight ahead is the shortest route.
Yes. But you have to transfer to Bus No. 28.
Don't you have a dental insurance?
Crown Hotel. Reservation Desk. Can I help you?
Thank you, sir. Just a moment, please.
I have a headache. These past few days I've been living off painkillers. Man, I feel like my head is going to explode.
Though our company doesn ’ t have a return policy, limiting the personal use of internet, I don ’ t think the boss will like us to do that.
well, we ’ Ve had to add that to the contract because we found that many of our employees were taking almost one sick day a month, even though they weren ’ t sick.
You can decide later. You will have choices before you submit your university application form.
Would you like to put it on your hotel bill?
Have you adapted to the lifestyle in China?
Yes, I am. Say, are you going to wear that outfit to the party?
Look at the museum guide.It says there are also some sculptures and potteries in this area. Let's rent an audio guide.
The question is easy for everybody.Don ' t you think so?
All right, we'll do an investigation.
Sounds good. Everyone is taking about teams these days. Can you describe your role as a member of a sales team?
Alright. University and high school seem very different to me. I suppose I just need to learn how to manage lecture classes. Then I will do better.
Wow, Good for you. It sounds like a lot of work. I'm proud of you! Is this the red of building?
Is there anything else bothering you?
No kidding! Then how do you know the bag's real?
What position does he play?
Amanda, how do you like this peaked cap?
I want to lose some weight!
No, but Bean did send me like a hundred forwards today. My mailbox must have been overflowing.
Many customers didn't want them.
Good evening, Mr.Brown.
I kind of want pizza.
It seems like he's not coming.
Fine, we will make sure that we send you all of the information that you need. See you there!
Excuse me may I know the name of your corporation?
Excuse me. I bought this just now and here's a receipt. I'm afraid I was short-changed. Could you look into it?
I appreciate your help.
I would like to make a deposit.
Sorry, sir, in order to protect these paintings, taking photos are strictly forbidden here.
Yes. I thought it was excellent. Didn't you?
my income remains the same but prices just continue to rise.
Perfect! This package includes round-trip flights to New Hampshire. A free airport pick-up is included. Our VIP limousine will pick you up and provide you with complimentary champagne and finger foods to soften the thirty-minute ride to the countryside.
How about 2 o'clock this afternoon?
He's in the third grade Sam! You see under each subject that he is being taught in school, he receives a mark from one to three. A one means his achievement or work is excellent. Here in Science for example he got a two, which means its satisfactory.
Are you going to this class this morning?
Yes. But you must return it within 30 days.
Really? But you were in first class! Nobody woke that guy up?
We could make it lower for you. What's your counter-offer?
I ' m afraid he didn ’ t leave one.
The food here is usually good, so I think that we should tell the waiter that there is a problem.
Well, pretty good.
They are! Besides being loud and arrogant, they're also terrible gossips. They're always talking about everybody else in the apartment.
You like movies?
That ’ s not going to be all right.
Not because I ’ m keeping an eye on the baby.
What special effects?
Hey Jack. How's it going?
How about Yanking Beer? It's very popular here.
Is the soup a shrimp soup?
Talk to you later.
And your name and number?
Got it. To whom should I report?
Yes. I'm used to online shopping. It’s convenient and time-saving. You can buy anything you want and they will send it to your home or any place you want.
Well, if you say so. Personally speaking, I'd rather die of thirst than drink champagne.
Good. Is there anything you find changed about the Fair?
Mandy, Would you like to come for dinner tonight?
Would you like to go to work or continue your studies after graduation?
I know what you mean. People would stare at you in amazement if you wore something like that in an everyday situation. I suppose only extravagant rich people wear them at cocktail parties.
If you like, you can apply right now.
Hang in there. The hardest part is just about over.
No-no-no, sorry! That's a handicapped parking space. Are you handicapped?
I'll be getting money on Friday, and I'll get it back to you then.
I've heard that the company is very strict with its staff.Is that true?
I would like to return this item... Are refunds allowed?
Oh, let's see... About six.
Yes, I think he's the most relaxing person in management.
Well, tell him to take it easy and that I hope he feels better.
I like what I see.
At first it is going to be difficult. During the first three months, I'm on probation. So I won't get sales commissions until after that.
By ordinary airmail please.
Looks nice. How much do you charge?
Don't worry. I'll call out the stops.
Okay, can I ask you something direct?
Well, I'd better not tempt you. Otherwise, if I give you a piece of cake, you might ask for a glass of milk.
We always do that, but I will make a point to check it for you since it is so important.
well, then, may I invite you for the next dance?
You could get there this way, but it'd be faster to go along the Wort Street.
I see. Thanks for your drive.
May I have his office phone number please?
John, they are old-fashioned people from the Chinese countryside. That ’ s their custom.
yes. Last Sunday I went to a nearby market. It was on open-air fair. I chanced upon this bag and bought it on the spot, without even trying to strike a bargain. I paid one hundred and twenty. And just now I was told by my Chinese colleagues I bought it overpriced. I could have talked my way to thirty.
Same here, Ms. Drake. I've been looking forward to this.
No, please don't do that. I'd just like to return it.
You seem really ticked off. What's up?
Jason, you have no taste. You think First Blood is a good movie.
Hi, do you know what ’ s for dinner? I ’ m starving.
There are two reasons for me to do it. First, I'm sure that there will be more opportunities for advancement If I enter your enterprise. Secondly, I'd like to acquaint myself with American culture if possible.
congratulations! That's excellent news? What do you have to do to get an unconditional offer?
I know you don ’ t want to pay for a job, but I think It’s time we consulted a headhunter.
I know this is going to sound sexist, but I don't think that men should have to give their approval to the mothers of their children.
I wouldn't mind a burger.
I need somebody to come over and fix my internet.
Excuse me. Could you tell me how to get to the library?
Great. One last question, where is your jazz section?
In that case, how about this one? It’s inexpensive but It’s still well made and easy to play.
Thank you, Wendy. I hope you'll be able to make it to the wedding.
Hey, you ’ re early! Where ’ s everyone?
Okay well listen, here is my business card with my mobile number. If any other questions spring to mind don ’ t hesitate to contact me. Of course you can also call Miss Childs too.
At 8 o'clock. I will make the reservation.
Perhaps. That will be more complicated, if we use wooden boxes.
So will you come to work with us?
Is that all you need?
I just saw a piece of news, that a group of white color workers hold a flour war in the office because of dissatisfaction of the year-end benefits.
OK. Right then.
Okay, it'll be ready in two minutes.
Hello, Jim. Where are you going?
Forest Restaurant. What can I do for you?
What time do you want to leave the hotel?
There are a mouse and a camera.
Did you have anything specific in mind?
Why don ’ t you go to bed early and get up early? You ’ ll have the same time for work.
Where is the boss? I need him to sign a few documents. I checked in his office, but he is not there. Is he out of the office now?
You didn't come to work yesterday.What happened?
Do you work in Shanghai?
I didn't take my temperature but I felt feverish.
Not always. Sometimes we don't understand her. Then she has to repeat what she said.
have you ever thought about becoming a freelance IT consultant?
Positive. I ’ ll put the radio on.
Judge from his look, he's a very serious person.
Glad to meet you.Would you mind if I ask you some questions?
I'd still like to hope that some day we could set up a human colony there.
It's not the cleaner's responsibility to pick up after lazy people. It's part of your responsibility to make sure that the place is neat for other people. If everyone thought like you, there'd be garbage everywhere! The cleaners can't be everywhere!
Oh, well this one has the, uh.
I think our smoked fish will be to your taste.
Would you want to be a senator?
Come on, You hit the high notes perfectly!
I like both. Could you show me some samples?
Oh, I see. Office romance tends to be the subject of gossip.
Yes, you will have to pay to use it.
You don't have to.
I don ’ t like to make friends with people who aren ’ t honest. Honesty is very important to me.
I'm going to work in a multi-national enterprise after graduation.
Very good. It's done just right this time, thank you.
I can make it for you if you like.
I think the government fined him a small amount, and he kept the rest in his foreign bank accounts. He ’ s still a millionaire.
That's $ 150.
Oh, you stay at the down town Hilton. When you go down two blocks this way and turn left, you will find it on your right.
How about this post-trip?
You'll see the world-famous magnificent waterfall.
Well, I came to know a girl three weeks ago. We have so much in common.
I'd like to come back next weekend.
Is it important?
If I win a lot of money, I shall buy you a mink coat.
I ’ Ve been a secretary for two years, before that I was at university.
Yes, you're right.
So they met up at the start of the journey and showed each other their equipment.
I would like to withdraw my money and close my account please.
I wasn't able to attend school because I was feeling ill.
that depends. We offer membership for one month, half a year and one year.
It's interesting and I want to buy one home.
Well, you're working very hard but not efficiently.And you don't work well with other employees.
No, he will stay here for two more days. Please keep the room for him.
Sure, we can reduce our price by ten percent.
But the competition is fierce this year... and it seems like I'm the only one left who hasn't found a job.
Give me two pieces of cake.
Nice to see you again, too. Peter. How's your family?
This motor oil case is still really slippery.
Give me one more day.
You're welcome.
Oh, how awful. What a terrible thing to do.
Maybe we can come here again next summer.
What do you think of when you're praying?
Fifteen? And Zina pushed them up to seventy-five?
no. they don ’ t. they simply charge higher prices at peak times. Is there no limit on the amount of advertisements that can be shown on tv in your country?
What made you make a decision to leave?
This way please. First, we should clean your face with our clarifying cream. And then we use the massage cream. Next do the massage. I hope that you can feel comfortable.
My present address is No. 415 Green Street. This is also my permanent address.
You mean the line over there of about 200 people?!
I did not know that.
There ’ s no way that I can stay here.
I'm sorry you can't borrow a jacket and a tie.
Yeah, but I ’ m not there for fun. I have to remain professional and if I get distracted, the manager would be pretty upset.
Let's see.Yes.You ' Ve got quite a high temperature.
Have you decided how you would like the salaries paid?
I know how goals are scored in football, but how about in rugby?
Our goods are well-examined before shipment. I'm afraid the losses must have occurred on route.
Did you bring your ticket?
I hope we'll get together again soon.
So, basically, I am OK?
Hey, Lily! You won't believe what happened in class today!
Well, in that case, there is nothing more to be said. What's your last word as to the date then?
Yes, but a football game is next.
Oh, that's exciting. What's this guy like? Is he hot?
So I ’ Ve got two tickets to the latest show but I need a little favor from you.
Over 2 million.
I hope I will meet her soon.
Thanks for coming, it was a real blessed.
Well, I am thinking about redesigning my kitchen.
Ok, could you tell me your room number and your name?
I've seen at least nine different cockroaches in my room.
May I ask your telephone number?
Could you please go lower?
I saw her yesterday.She was a little better.
maybe you should have placed them horizontally over your bowl or plate. They resemble two incense sticks used at sacrifices. It's very inauspicious, and might enrage all present.
Are you kidding? I just feel tired right now.
that's true. I might as well call them up and see if I can get an interview. Do you have the details?
Ok.Is this your luggage properly labelled, sir?
Tired and stressed. This wedding is giving me a headache.
OK, we'll make the correction for you.
Gucci, you look serious. I wish you ’ d let your hair down.
I will probably just use it for online shopping. At the moment, I have to meet the seller in person and pay cash, if it's a local seller.
what's interesting to see there?
And what's the purpose of your visit?
Such friends are even worse than enemies.
What if I can't finish them by then?
I ’ m so proud of you.
It barks all night long.
Is there a vacant table for 2 right now?
( after a while... ) I'm his guide. What's the trouble with him, doctor
I need help figuring out how to use this phone.
OK, and I'll bring some information that helped me with my presentation.
There ’ re educational stations too. I could learn while I watched TV.
I think that they don ’ t complete the forms correctly or they don ’ t include all the required documents. The embassy is very strict about it. You have to be quite careful.
When you are in a restaurant and you want the waiter to bring the bill, what do you do to attract his attention?
You always act like this when you ’ Ve fallen in love. Who is he? How did you meet?
I want to place a long-distance call to London. Is this the right counter?
Thank you. Mr. A, and I certainly hope the answer will be favorable. Goodbye.
But the price is always negotiable and you should consider our quantity of order.
We could provide them with better conditions anyway. We should certainly try to improve the conditions at zoos. We should try to recreate the natural conditions as much as possible.
That's also my dream.
oh, thank you. I'm going to the library, are you coming?
Good coming, sir. May I do your room now?
We just will.Trust me on that.
Yes. As long as you keep making regular monthly payments, paying the minimum is just fine. Of course, your credit limit will be lowered accordingly.
Yes, I was responsible for restaurant and food reviews mostly. I spent 3 years in that position, but to be honest it wasn ’ t an area of journalism I wanted to stay in long-term.
You can have some fruits for dessert.If you eat an apple and a banana, I might let you have a small piece of chocolate cake.
I like your black clothes and your fangs are cool.
Let's go to the new club on West Street.
Yeah, you'll find it there.
Any other rules to observe in order to keep modest?
Honey, what's up?
Yes, just over there.
Can I have it charged to my account, please?
You mean I've got to lose weight?
Hello, it's nice to meet you.
I agree. I guess I was paying more attention to her answers than her body language.
Many people gain weight by drinking far too much soda. Soda should be a treat ; there's simply no nutritional value in it whatsoever. If you want to lose weight and you can't stop drinking soda, try some diet coke.
Could I first ask about the remuneration package?
It’s a difficult choice. The train is a litter faster, but much more expensive.
I ’ ll appreciate your help
Well could you do me the favor of making this quick? It’s the third quarter and you ’ Ve been blabbering on since the first!
Not yet. I have an interview with the visa official today.
I am good at pulling together teams of people to accomplish a task.
Why didn't she call me?
Is that the latest issue of Reader you're reading?
What ’ s your working day like?
Can I take it with food?
No, but I'd like to. Do you have to pay to do instant messaging?
What would your current colleague say about you?
Oh, the telephone lines were damaged by the storm. They repaired them yesterday.
Thanks.Would you do me another favor?
I did, too.
You know what, this is really embarrassing, but your name has just slipped my mind. Can you remind me?
Good morning, may I speak with Professor Clark, please?
English and computer skills are comparatively important to this post, especially in the starting period. Wharfs your ability in these two fields?
I will. It's most thoughtful of you.
Oh, this? I got it in Singapore. Here, do you want to take a look?
I hope we can do more business together. Though we are satisfied with our past trade record, there are still possibilities for more business. In the meantime, let's discuss other spheres of cooperation, such as investment, technology transfer and technical assistance.
Hello, may I speak to Kevin, please?
Look, the aliens are sending a message to Mulder. This rocks!
You get your bus pass?
Oh, that's too bad.
We also check your spark plugs, fuel filter, and other oil levels such as hydraulic fluid. We also check the clutch and brakes to determine when you will need new ones.
No. I haven ’ t had the pleasure.
I would like to book a table for five at 7:00 tonight.
It's absolutely free to guests. Except for printing, of course.
I hope that you had good journey.
Core courses are ones that you must take. Elective courses are ones that you get to choose for yourself.
It’s too good to be true! If I were there, I would ask him if he himself was a successful man.
That's right, no one else has a product on the market now that is comparable.
Oh. You're right. I misread the ad.
Certainly. ( Take a table-cloth to her )
What a nice tie you are wearing!
Are there other chores for us to do?
Some of these can wait but there are a few things that I need right away.
Thank you. I have an 8 o ' clock appointment tomorrow morning, I would like a wake-up call.
Tomorrow is the tooth anniversary of our company. Our general manager invites you to a dinner party. Do you think you can manage it?
It won't connect.
That's okay. Better late than never.
What subjects did you like most at university?
Alright. Well. We have many units without auto-reverse.Here is a good unit. Very reliable.It has an AM / FM band, built-in microphone, recording capability, and no auto-reverse.
Ma, I really don't know how to thank you.
It runs fine.
That is true.
How long will it take to get there?
David, I heard you lost your job.
I have a cell phone in my car. Now it's probably on the floor on the passenger side.Why don't you get it for me, and then I can call the police?
My mascara's waterproof!
hello, do you remember me? I bought some vases from you yesterday.
Mom! I hate eating vegetables!
Oh, she's good. She must be getting on a bit now.
Not bad. But I've made too many flights these days. I could hardly remember how many take-offs and landings I've been through these three days. I think we all feel a bit tired.
Surely. As this is the latest model, and you can also set the alarm.
There was a concert country music last week.
What ’ s so great about him?
It really doesn't matter at all. I never did like it anyway.
Yeah, yeah, I know what I selected. Just give me my money!
Oh, sorry. I'm always absent-minded. I remember that I've put a note in my pocket.
Of course. Can I have it delivered to my girlfriend's house this afternoon?
That one is one hundred and fifty dollars.
I believe I would have better opportunities with a small but rapidly expanding company like yours.
Take care! I will miss you so much.
How do you know?
The reason I have called this meeting is to review a proposal we have received from our international division in Hong Kong. The agenda for this meeting is as follows, first, a presentation of the new proposal by Mr. Black. Second, an analysis by Ms. Nielson. Finally, a discussion about whether or not to implement this proposal.
The worst part is that the inflation hurts the poor more than the rich. It also leads to more unemployment in the long run. I don't know what a good solution would be to make the economy more vibrant again...
I didn ’ t mean to hurt anyone.
The letter reads, “ please find enclosed a copy of our agenda for your review. ” I don ’ t see anything else in the envelope...
Check out your mom's closet. I'll bet she still has something.
How'd you get a ticket?
yes, they are. I gave them a good clean. They are in good condition and don ’ t need to be replaced.
John Smith, the escaped criminal.
OK. How about this card then?
I've already given you a discount of 20 % off of our normally charge. If I go any lower, we'll have loss on this project. I really want to work with you on this. But we've already gone as low as we can go.
Dan More's Office, how may I help you?
Wow, like America. It receives a great number of visitors every year.
Could you tell me a little about the organization? For example, how big is your workforce here?
Of course. It's on Memorial Avenue.
About a 100 and I have had them declared.
No. What happened?
Just looking at some books on how to learn English.
That's right. But feeling sorry for someone is one thing, and sticking to our principles is another. We must make a clear cut between them.
What are you studying?
I ran a red light?
Great, thanks. But how can I get discharged?
I wanted to go out somewhere, not stay here. Do you know of another good restaurant?
Have you checked the periodicals section yet?
Thank you very much. Come back to see us.
They went to their stores to get one. Here they come with it now!
That's a good sign. But just soak a little longer, OK?
That's good. Could you wrap it for me?
I agree that Miss Li doesn't teach so well. Most students either sleep or do other things in her class.
Yes of course. We can activate all these services in about an hour.
Make sure you pay special attention to the street signs with time limits. Have you noticed those signs?
I see that. That was a nice ride.
Our jackets are over here next to coats and accessories.
Hello and welcome. How may I be of service?
He is an accountant. I have been helping him for a week.
whenever you are given added responsibilities, you should get a promotion.
Well, I don't have the guts to ask her out.
I don ’ t have onions on my list. I ’ ll add them. We should get some tea. Is green tea ok or should we get the same tea that we usually get?
How do you do? Please be seated, How is your trip here?
Oh, I see. If I buy more than a set, can I get any discount?
We can make a number of mixed drinks at our bar.
Oh yes, I see the sign, thank you.
Maybe you're right. But I really don't like it.
What about water pollution instead of pollution?
OK, I'll give it a go.
Dad, when will you finish your cooking?
Can you tell me the total cost of the chicken breasts?
I hear that his father died.
Okay. How much?
I have heard of that before. When shall we start?
I hope you can help me. I've been told about something called ' Financing Link '?
Ahahah... you miss her point for sure. H & K actually is an acronym for ' hug and kiss '.
I ’ ll put it on my Visa card, then.
She ’ s bringing something pink for Mr. King to drink. Now she ’ s putting it... OK.
Was he unhappy with you not attending the meeting?
I'm afraid so, yes. There is always some risk on the buyer's part.
I admire plum blossoms very much. It seems that only it can blossom in the cold winter.
Have you got the ticket?
Yes, if we're lucky we'll find something in the next few days. I think you had a good idea to start flat hunting early.
What I really liked about him is that he was an understanding and friendly teacher. Do you enjoy that in a teacher?
But I don ’ t like big strong dogs.
No, I'll call back later.
Hey, Ann, I am really sorry about last night. I shouldn't have said those things to you.
Do they live with you and your parents?
You are welcome to have a try. Here it is. Ours is of prime quality.
Three thousand! That's almost too good to be true. Did she say why her friend wants to sell it?
I have faith in our new President.
But I think a master degree is good enough for a girl.
May I try this on?
Welcome to our school. If you need any help, please come to me.
See you at seven fifteen, Saturday.
Yes. They are completely different. Paul is very sociable and much more honest than his brother.
Thank you. I was operated on for gastric ulcer.
I'm sorry to hear that. Take good care of your husband. I'll find another one to replace you.
I ’ m sorry. There is no listing under that name. Are you sure of the name?
I'm thinking about taking his class next semester.
I know, I should wash them right away.
I thought it was in a quiet neighborhood, but it isn't.
Yes, I will be glad to mail your letter.
Of course. Is there a problem with them?
In my opinion, it may be necessary to charge for participation.
Sure. You've given a great help to me in the past days.
Well, the air line lost my luggage on the return flight and then I lost my carry on bag when I was tackling with the officers in charge. I left the airport three hours later than I expected and then I was caught in a traffic jam. When I finally got home, I was totally exhausted. But I found the elevator was out of service due to a blackout.
She suffers from cancer.
Sure. I was fond of those lovely children
Is it a horror movie?
Yeah. I'm going with Jennie.
I know. But at that time your blame is rubbing salt into his wounds.
Yes, Mr.Forester.
Thanks a lot. By the way, do you make the deliveries?
Yes, I'd like to see that. What does it clean exactly?
Thanks. What you need to do now is deposit 100 % of the guaranteed funds of your contract into your account with us.
No, I think it is very boring. Can you change it to Channel Twelve, please?
There's nothing to watch right now.
I want to know where this relationship is going. I ’ m in love with you and I need to know...
Paper-cuts are all hand-made. Let me see the paper-cuts you bought. They are all animals.
Yes, mainly prints. There are a few plain as well. Here they are.
Yes, I can see it. But what's on it?
Do you want a cold-wave or perm?
Her name is Fluffy. She is a sweet dog.
So why not come and join us? Lee will come as well.
Exactly how bad?
that's exactly why I decided to quit the job and find a new one.
I see. Is it your first interview?
It’s a very quiet neighbourhood. There ’ s some traffic, but not much. It’s not very difficult to get to the city centre, but you must remember to turn left and right at the right places or yo
Oh.my god. But I have to be there on Sunday. I want to go on stand-by.
No. But I'll fill you in later. Right now I have to find Vince.
What an idea!
It's hard to say. I mean, how can you judge what's good for them? Maybe it is best to tell them the truth no matter what it is.
I would like to offer you a good price.But I won't be able to do that if I think this is a one-shot deal.So I would like to have some confidence in your idea.
But IQ is decided at birth.One can't expect to make a lot of improvement in it.
Hello. Is Bob there, please?
She said she want a man with large house, luxurious car and healthy parents.
What do you consider your strengths?
Eh, let me see. Sorry, I can't remember it, because I've been there only once, accompanied by my friends.
Overtime work is very common in companies. I can work overtime if it's necessary, but I don ’ t think we will work overtime everyday.
is she American?
I think they are quite reasonable, and the vegetables are very fresh.
Enjoy yourself, sir.
Well, I ’ m glad to hear it. Have a cup of coffee!
Ours are for everyone that graduated in the same year.
Do you need a second permit for a car?
No, rabbits aren't very stinky. As long as your clean the cage on a regular basis, it's not too bad.
Don't worry. You'll be fine. First of all, put on your seat belt. Adjust the mirrors.
Hi, Alex. How are you doing?
Certainly! But I have to contact my friend first.
Sure, I have to go anyway. But the first place you need to go is immigration office. They ’ ll check your ticket, passport, visa and immunization record book. After that we can go to the baggage claim area.
Well, I ’ d like to, but I ’ m going to have to look at my schedule.
I can ’ t just now, Susan. Could we get together this afternoon? What ’ s it about?
Could you have gotten it done at another time?
Actually, he's really good-looking. Too bad he's a weirdo.
I'm sorry. I'll ask next time.
Do not undervalue them as they play a big role in forming the taste and will make the sandwich more refreshing and light. The best choices here are evident — cucumbers, tomatoes, onions, sweet pepper or chilli, lettuce and, of course, herbs — you can ’ t go wrong with them. As for aubergines, mushrooms and asparagus, I would recommend you first grill them slightly with a little touch of olive oil.
That is a good idea, I love it. What time do you think is convenient?
You are booked, Ms. Green.
Well, we come here almost every month.
A vet's a man who takes care of sick animals. He's an animal doctor.
Now, let me listen to your chest. Ah, you have a temperature. Breathe deeply. That's right. Well, don't worry, it's only a throat infection. There's nothing wrong with your lungs. And how is your appetite?
I'm Akimbo. Nice to meet you, I guess.
I'd like to get a good RPG. Can you recommend any?
Well, shall we get down to business '.
Didn't you say your friend was American? Where is she going on her honeymoon?
No, you can learn a lot from them.
Just killing time until I find something to do. What are you going to do?
Bill, how can you hear so happy today?
Yes, I do, Susan. Just a moment. Here it is.
Oh, I didn't know that.
No, that ’ s the problem. Though they are well-off, once he dies, his house will go to his cousin. So, when he dies, the girls will have nothing.
Let me know if you need anything else.
Would you mind waiting? I ’ m on the telephone.
How much is it for one night? We only need it for tonight.We ' re going to continue our trip in the morning.
Yes, It’s about a group of friends living in a foreign country, and all the strange experiences they have
This kind of school is good at helping people to improve their Chinese.
We hope your stay here a pleasant one!
Hi! Do you want a fill-up?
We provide up-to-date training on state of the art equipment.
to tell the truth. i don't like it, it's too noisy.
Newspapers or the radio I guess. I just wish TV was more objective.
It doesn't matter. Bye-bye!
I'd like to say goodbye to you.
Those in traditional fields, such as agriculture and heavy industry. Younger people are not interested in doing those jobs and other countries have industries that can produce things much cheaper.
Yeuks! Do they know anything about me?
But you like a girl to be rich, surely?
So you ’ Ve got something on your mind, I guess.
Shall we visit our math teacher tomorrow?
Hello, I'd like to reconfirm my flight.
Yes, that's right, around five nine five ten.
Enjoy your food! Bye!
Yes, the service certainly didn't add to the experience.
Honey, do you know what color the carrot is?
You're serious?
That ’ s a good idea. You should do the same with some music. You might find something you like. Classical music might make you clever, but dance might make you livelier and happier.
Yes, but you look fine.
Bob refused all his classmates ' invitations.
Just a moment. I'll weigh it.
Yes, I already have one.
Well unfortunately, I'm tied up on Tuesday. I'm supposed to have lunch with an important visitor from out of town, and I don't think there's any way I can get out of it.Are you free on Wednesday?
In Taichung, I think.
Hey, I worked hard on that report and I deserve the grade I got.
Waitress! My bill for today's lunch, please.
I think you should stay in the airport. Even though the delay is expected to be two hours, the flight departure could be announced any minute. Who knows?
It was around 1 thirty in the morning. I guess I didn ’ t fall asleep till 3 because those numbers were involving in my mind. I just couldn ’ t stop thinking about them.
I am looking for some information about home stay.
OK, we will. What's your name and address?
I don't know. I'm just feeling a little sad.
That will be 3.50 dollars.
If you are staying here for a few days, we ’ d be delighted to see you at our factory.
Yes, our employees are allowed to take up 2 days a month to attend college courses.
Hello, Mary. Nice day, isn't it?
Stop making fun of me.
If sounds so tempting. Why not go applying for a loan from the bank? They charge very low interest, so you can choose whether to pay up the balance in 10 or 20 years.
So, are you going to quit driving to work then?
Bye bye! Have a pleasant journey!
You got it. Only in this way can you gain the respect of the interviewer and his confidence in your judgement.
I think something must be done.
Please take a seat.
Perfect. I ’ ll pick you up then.
Was it that crowded?
Did you? And what did you study?
Please wake me up at 6 am.
So you're learning Chinese songs?
do you have any other symptoms?
Now for the most difficult question. What is the price tag for this lovely vehicle?
I always visit the places that I use as setting for stories. Readers like things to be as factually correct as possible-even in fiction! I usually base my characters on people I have met. Most charact
Well, let's see which technique is better. I think I'll go up first... Yes! I hit a strike. I knocked them all down on my first bowl.
Could I have some fish?
Yes, but we have life jackets. And we got a real kick out of that.
No, I wasn't. I came here in 1992.
Really! Oh, honey, you are so sweet. I'll chop up this carrot.
So, did you go out with Richard?
What do you hope to become?
OK! Come this way please. You should fill a form here first. Here you are.
That's unbelievable. Why did this happen?
Hello, I need to come in and see the doctor.
Was it a delivery problem or a problem with the products?
That doesn ’ t sound too bad. I wish I could do it, but I work in the city. So I take the train.
Would you like to go skating with me this afternoon?
Excuse me, ma'am. Can you tell me where the nearest postoffice is?
Mostly, I feel like I need some rest and hot soup.
Well, I guess so.
not that well. I've got that Monday morning feeling today.
No, it's Caxton.
Yeah, that's right. If you find this person is more and more important to you and you can totally trust her, then you can stay in love.
They're cute. But do you think you'll wear them much?
I'm hungry.
Let ’ s leave some room on this offer. I think that three hundred and twenty thousand dollars is a fair offer in this housing market.
Not bad.We have had a big meeting today, remember?
Can you give me a touch of his character?
How much do you spend on design development every year.
Break it up! I will not permit fighting in this campus.
Hi! Tom. Want to go to play bowling tonight?
It doesn't matter. We can go to the ferris wheel later.
You know that I have had a series of miserable relationships. Last summer, I fell in love with John. But the romance blossomed for six or seven weeks, and then wilted.
Sorry, I think you have the wrong number.
The neighboring country is threatening their sovereignty with its nuclear bombs.
We will only be needing it for Sunday.
If you keep your promise, I will also let you watch Ultraman this evening.
I wouldn't mind eating some corn.
Actually, many of the characters are the same or very similar in both Chinese and Japanese, so they ’ re easy for me.
You won ’ t believe who ’ s been elected to do overtime on the Baker account! Me! I ’ Ve already logged in 20 hours of overtime!
Are you interested in the natural landscape or the human landscape?
Where is your domicile place?
Yes, sir. You're booked on Flight 201, leaving in one hour.
I feel like I'm craving a salad.
Yes. What a good job we have done!
I've set some goals for myself and my career, and unfortunately I'm at a standstill in my current situation. I have begun to explore options available before I spend too much time in a job where I can't advance. My goal is to continue to take on new responsibilities and be a key contributor to the success of an online venture.
those are good answers. How did she react?
Because I feel tired all the time, even when I wake up in the morning. I find very difficult to do any work. I have no appetite. My wife cooks me delicious meals but I can only eat a little.
You haven't? If you've never tried it I can show you how.
I don't know what to tell you.
You can use your Deposit Book or your Credit Card. And of course, you can use our e-banking.
There are lots of jobs, and almost everybody works. There is a high standard of living. People earn a lot, but they spend a lot to live. So there isn ’ t so much money after all.
How do you think the report I wrote?
one of our qualified teachers will interview you so that they can find a class that suits you best.
This is a rotten way to start a vacation. I HATE lines! Can you book me on tomorrow ’ s flight?
What time will you be back?
You've gone bonkers, Jen.
Just a minute, madam. You should pay a deposit of 500 yuan beforehand.
I had a few coffees while I was waiting. Let's get out of here!
It comes to $ 15.
Impossible. How can you expect us to make a reduction to that extent?
Please wait for a moment... Now here is your Chinese currency. See if it's right. It's 3,220 yuan. Please keep this exchange memo. You may need it for converting when you leave China.
Could you spell that, please?
I am afraid not, darling. Our expenses are mounting.
I lost the table tennis game yesterday.
That's a good idea, except I want to go out, not stay in. Something else, maybe?
That's great. Well, we'd better get back to our seats. It's about to start.
Ah, I ’ m going to the pub to watch the football.
i'm afraid i can't dance well.
Very useful advice, I will try them right now.
Ok. I like the design of this lamps. I also need some cushion covers. I ’ ll just browse through those ones over there.
It's just too bad. I have to leave it as it is, and thank you just the same.
Is this your first time in Beijing?
Hey, Ken. Good luck if you already put your money on the Red Sox.
Why don ’ t you go ahead of me? I have more items than you.
Good, and would you care for soup or salad to start with?
OK. Here are your receipt and your change.
Then, I am sorry to say I must regretfully decline your offer and seek quotations for the other suppliers.
So Kevin, what is your type?
I bet you that she regrets what she's done. You are such a good catch! She really lost out, didn't she?
I see. The woolen sweater shrunk in the wash.
Hi. You enjoying the party?
what ' the matter?
I ’ m on my way out now.Could you come back in an hour?
He's terribly handsome.
It’s for the campaigns.
Oh, the final exam is coming soon. I feel a little bit nervous.
Certainly. It's quite simple really. Do you hold a resident's permit?
Sure... what's up?
I see. So this card helps me to keep track of my progress.
I don't mind paying for quality workmanship.
I'm being attacked by hordes of cockroaches!
Can I get the ticket here?
You can ’ t be serious!
What's the difference between an outlet and a regular store?
10:00 AM. When am I supposed to check in?
That's terrific. I can't wait to check it out.
What type of vacation time do we get?
Well, there are several things. Of course, you must do everything you can to keep costs down and revenues high.
Can you recognize Mike's father in the crowd?
Did you get any pizza? When I got there, only small one was left. What a pity!
Okay. Are you sure there isn't anything else?
Here is the song list.
Can I have a reduction of seven percent?
Since I first met my wife, about three years.
It was nice to have you with us.
Sure, what time?
First is your final conclusion on your work of this year, and then comes your plan for the next year.
No, it will not be formal at all. It is a fun time. You will love the game show. Please dress casually. Usually there is an over abandon of drinks, so be careful with that.
What? Really? I don ’ t really want to have to buy a new phone.
You can also state his personality traits, hobbies and relationships with schoolmates and so on.
Hug and kiss?! How is it possible? Oh, it's really bad to Miun - Verstand her meaning.
Great. Now can I check out this book?
Yes, I packed it myself.
Yeah of course! Although, don ’ t you ever wonder what could have been?
If you ’ d like, I can show you were to find it.
Of course it is.In fact, I'll even take the course with you if you want.
So you just talk all the time?
I see. Where are you now, Li?
As we are a well-established company, we are very familiar with the customers ' needs. Besides, we can make full use of our good connections with the wholesalers and retailers here and develop a good market for your products if appointed as your agent.
Yes. We'll have our baby soon.
A minute, please. It's 6212 yuan all together. Tax included.
You have good taste. Let my show you what I have.
Sure, my name is Ana Ferris. Don ’ t worry about it, it happens to me all the time. I ’ m terrible with names too.
No, I don't think it could be. I checked the battery two days ago. It must be other problems.
I'll come to that. My proposal is
Yes, Mr. Foster, our hostess will be with you in just a moment.
OK. Just a moment. It's just some clothes and toiletries.
Ok, each player gets 16 pieces. You can be the white ones and I ’ ll play with the black pieces. Now in the front, you set up the pawns. Those are the least valuable pieces and can only move one space forward. When you are about to capture another piece, it can move one space diagonally.
You ’ re free to leave.
My brother, here, this is an invitation letter from him. I will stay with him and his family in their home.
How do you think people get their personalities?
How about your grades of study?
Let me suggest this one. It's an excellent watch, it looks good, and it's only $ 100.
I need my minibar restocked.
Do you value a steady job more or one that offers a chance to move ahead?
It's his 50th birthday.
Is this Friday okay?
Thank you. Do you have a credit card, Mr. Sandals?
You too. Have you lost some weight?
I ’ d like to ask whether it is correct to partake in the firm ’ s insurance plan?
My name is Liu Lichi. How do you do?
If you could show me your details, please. What can I do?
Hey Lucas, how was your trip to Paris?
Well, I'll have to personally thank him by making him my famous chocolate cake.
Hi, I'm checking in. The last name is Rama.
All right. I hope I'll be able to enjoy my stay in a quiet suite tomorrow evening and have a sound sleep.
Morning. May I help you?
Yes, the pain comes more intense when the weather is bad. And the pain comes more intense when I walk too much.
I think I tried every position, but the last few years, I played third base.
Believe it or not, the interviewers are as interested in your questions as they are in your answers.
Well, yes. Several colleagues from different departments helped me with that. They are very supportive. I consulted an economic expert last week. He was very kind to give valuable suggestions.
Do you have a double room for tonight?
The first thing that you should check out is callous, which is a great Internet-based placement service that you can use.
Just two blocks away, in that tall building.
We'll offer that on holidays.
May I see your ticket and passport, please?
Oh, that's why my parents never scold me that day. they always try to avoid tears and quarrels.
What can I get for you? Here is the menu.
I have no idea. Tell me.
It's for a purse that cost $ 350.
Cut it short in the front, but leave it long in the back. Leave just a little over the ears.
I'm having a party this Friday.
A friendly one. I think an open, friendly, honest relationship should exist. An employee should feel she ( he ) can go to her ( his ) boss anytime with any kind of question.
a couple of times a week. i've got a regular dancing partner. he is really some dancer
Well, I'll have to think about it and get back to you in about 30 minutes.
Left at the lights?
What is your major going to be?
Yes. We enjoyed ourselves very much. Have you traveled much, Luke?
Maybe. But it emphasizes participation and a spirit of courage, and can give one the extreme sense of cheerfulness and success. I'm getting to like the game more and more.
Of course you can. Every one has his personal matters to deal with more or less, but don't chat over the phone. What's more, don't let it hinder your work and the company's business.
OK. I'll have many cream cakes today.
OK. I will do that.
Yeah, I'm afraid so.
Yeah. You don't need to rub it in.
Yeah. I have got much pressure in the company. I have tobe wrapped upon my work.
Did you get any rewards or honors in college?
I'd be quite willing to if I could, but we must comply with the label requirements according to our law, or we can't clear the consignment of lichee through the Customs.
We love it. But we'd like to know about the neighbors.
One of the burners on the stove doesn ’ t work.
First, we need eggs, milk, and bread.
Ok, please first fill in the form and return it to me. You can do it in the next door.
I didn't realize that I have to buy something from them every six months.
How about Friday afternoon?
Sure, which one? The red one or the blue one?
Is everything to your satisfaction?
I am really excited about this.
did you tell him?
I can't say, but let me make a call and see if I can help.
yes. What about you?
Don ’ t lose your reason. Go to find him and talk with him.
Of course. It's a newly-built one.
No, they've all been cut down and now all the soil is washing away.
Remind him to give you a locker tomorrow.
I'm afraid you've parked on a double yellow line, sir.
You got it! I ’ m going to spend two fabulous weeks in Hawaii!
OK, here is your money.
Your room number is 505. This is your key. The bellboy will help you with the baggage.
How many of them were there?
Your arms need to be raised to shoulder height.
I like thrillers and I like Julia Roberts, so it might be interesting. I read a review today and the critic didn ’ t seem to be very impressed.
Yes. Steven Smith, room 609.
So sorry, I don't mean to be.
Yeah, prices have really gone up the past couple of years.
No, thanks. We'll come back later. May I reserve a table for two?
If you cant study everything, then that is probably the best way to go.
Yes, too good to be true.
Remember it is the boss who hires you and tell her how much you have improved the office efficiency.
No, they have a big new fancy house.
There ’ s no need to apologize.Forget about it.
Nothing. It's just one of those days. Everyone at the office is sick and I'm getting blamed for work not being done.
Yes. There is one more thing.
You can ’ t take me to jail! What about my sleigh? It’s Christmas Eve! I have presents to deliver! Rudolph! Prancer! Dancer! Get help!
I'd like you to do me a favor.
I want to make another offer, but I am afraid that they will decline and I will lose this house.
What do you think about Cold Wind?
Sellers aren ’ t always truthful, and there might also be problems that they aren ’ t aware of.
Let ’ s go to WAngFuJing by bus.
I don't want to miss it today.
Wait for my instructions and then proceed accordingly.
Please call if you have any other requests. Your food will be delivered promptly.
That's what everyone says! I can't wait to see it for myself some day.
Good morning, Family. We'll have our board meeting this afternoon. Can you write the agenda on the notice board?
Happy New Year!
I ’ m not happy about it, either.
OK, dear sister, I see. This kind of thing will not happen again.
I can help you with that. Just have a seat and roll up your left sleeve.
It's nothing serious actually, doctor. It’s... Well, I get tired very easily recently, and I often doze off during meetings, office hours and sometimes even while I'm dining.
Well, thanks for your advice. I will probably come back later.
I graduated with honors ; I had a 3.9.
There are a lot of them. In hot or warm days, tea helps to dispel the heat and brings on an instant cool with a feeling of relaxation. Moreover, the tea leaves contain a number of chemicals which are good for people's health.
Yes, mum. I'm coming.
Yes. Would you like a window seat?
Thank you! We have really enjoyed our meal here.
Thank you so much.
I like scary movies.
But Peter and Tony put all their paper in the basket a few moments ago.Now it's full.
Good, I hope you'll make sure that it won't happen again.
Oh, that sounds terrible. Would you be happier with higher pay here? I'm sure something can be worked out.
I need some flowers for my girlfriend.
I think I will.
Did you need help with something?
You'd like it.
Don ’ t worry, Shan always screws up free throws.
I don't mind. i'm not a light sleeper, but quieter is better for when we have to study at home.
musicians are truly remarkable.
It’s an anniversary of our weeding.
That sounds like a good idea.The sky is clear, the sun is shining and there's a nice cool breeze, so it is not too hot.
Well, it's probably nothing serious.But I think we'd better have that shoulder X-rayed.We can't do the until the morning, though.So it'd be better if you stay in hospital for the night
Did you want to do something tomorrow?
It is a pretty big mechanical company. I am assigned to work in the assembly shop.
If it were up to Tom, we'd have the wedding in the ETV? He loves to sing.
Would you, please? Thank you.
That's good, I'm usually more comfortable in bigger families.
Wow! She's gorgeous.
Yeah, we should have more roads built.
"Why do you say "" have to ""? "
How about going to italy next summer vacation?
I know he really deserves this.
Sorry. You've got the wrong number.
Forget it. It was an accident.
That ’ s going to be a problem.
I think you just need to get more sleep.
What about next week? Is it convenient for you?
Well, I had English from 9 o'clock to 11 o'clock, art from 12 o'clock to 2 o'clock, and math from 2 o'clock to 4 o'clock.
Oh, I know. Sometimes I have the same feeling with you. But you'd better not be so emotional.
Don ’ t worry. There are many other options using the internet as dating methods. Some sites operate at international standard even have got certifications.
Well, all tight. But you know, smoking does do harm to your health.
I think we should accept his plan.
I don't like things to be fancy.
I want to try on this pair.
I appreciate the effort, sir.
Here, I ’ ll help you type one up.
Don't be afraid. She isn't going to bite you.
Hi, I'm Lucas, I just moved in next door.
That's what friends are for.
Thank you. I'll work hard.
Are they safe?
We would like to amend it, please.
But I find Japanese ones better.
I'm sorry to hear that. I'll have to examine you.
Sure, I'm looking forward to it.
Now you have to fill in the hours in the blanks and total the hours for the week. Do you know how to use military time?
Then what's your problem?
Thank you, yes. I'm not sure how to use this ATM, I usually go to a clerk and use my Bank Book. But today, I thought I'd try something new. I want to take some money out.
OK. I'll just need to see a credit card and passport.
Ok. Can I try it on?
It's very nice, I like it very much.
I can ’ t wait to go there myself.
Do you know how far you will be from the airport at 5?
If confronted with difficult task, what will you do?
I know! Well... he said I ’ m not pregnant. I ’ m sorry if I got you all worked up over nothing. I want you to know that I didn ’ t do it on purpose...
So romantic. Young people must have lot of fun.
Ur, you really let me down.
It's very pleasant.
Can I get a soda, please?
Zina, can I talk to you about something personal?
Ok, I ’ ll pay by card then.
What's the minimum deposit for opening a current account?
I'm hungry. Do we have anything to eat?
Yes. I called the first three people on the list, but they didn ’ t pick up.
I always approach things very enthusiastically. When I begin something, I don ’ t like to leave it half-done. I can ’ t concentrate on something new until the first thing is finished.
Mm, it is.
That's not a problem. Just give me your name, phone number, and date of visit.
If my plans don't change, I'll need a room April 14 till April 17.
What can I do to help you?
There it is. That is the pattern! The set behind you. Thank goodness, they haven't been sold. And thank you so much for being so patient with me. Yes, those are the ones.
It's a bit of a problem situation, actually... you see, our company has a Corporate Account with you, but unfortunately, we've been experiencing cash flow problems recently.
What would you like to have?
Quit this company? Oh... wow.
Yes, it is much earlier than past years.
Is a white blouse OK?
Yes, I am lucky. I was born on Christ ’ s birthday. Maybe that is why I usually go to church on Sundays. When is your birthday?
I know what you mean. I ought to wear right clothes at the right time.
Well, she apparently doesn't think it's so friendly. Let's go.
Yes, it's said that Hebes was experiencing six degree strong winds.
Yeah, there isn ’ t a bad seat in the place.
Hello. I have a reservation, under the name Lee, Leo Lee.
We eat it in my country too, but I wouldn't say It’s very popular. Most people buy frozen sweet corn from their local supermarket.
No, they got engaged.
I must be going.
If you gamble all night, you ’ ll run out of money in a few days.
Sorry to bother you sir, but I have some bad news.
That's easy. A girl at her age must like beautiful ornaments. How about a hair pin?
Fine, Mr. Tan. I ’ ll see you then.
Proper posture can show your confidence.
You can come in this afternoon. If you are feeling too stressed, feel free to bring a friend along.
Am I standing the right way?
I appreciate you telling me.
They are.We definitely see eye-to eye on my enhanced performance being a win-win situation for everyone involved.
You could try the ravioli. They are rather like your Chinese dumplings, and the sauce is delicious.
Do you have a light?
Some dude came into the bank with a gun.
Oh. So you think you can just do whatever you want, do you?
When you brush your teeth, what do you use?
I hope so. I'll make sure to get a small one so she can put it into her suitcase. I hope it won't cause her trouble at the border.
You mean it is not created by the burglar?
that's the one. It's an actioncomedy. What do you think?
I've just had some money sent from Germany, in Euros.
What was the rate yesterday?
So, you want me to carry your backpack, your thermos flask, our picnic, and you as well. No problem, jump on.
0h, that would be nice of you.
Do you want a single ticket or a round trip ticket?
How ’ s that?
My God! Why did you bring me here? I hate the taste of coffee.
I know I'm a blabbermouth, but what do you think she should do, John?
Just calm down. It's just a turnover. Make up your mind and we can shoot well.
I sure did. How about you?
Great. Talk to you then.
Who was chairing the meeting?
OK! What kind of account do you want to open?
Exactly. How much do you want for them?
that's exactly what the visa officers want to hear. Do you have enough money for tuition and room and board?
Haha, jogging? Perhaps it might be a bit too boring?
that seems to be a bit low, but that's not uncommon when you're ill.
You look pale, you must have poor health.
Do you do the same exercises every day?
What are you talking about brother? Spill it.
Thank you and goodbye.
Yes, I also felt that. I'm always busy, and have no time for rest. I don ’ t know how to make use of time.
All right, all right. He'll get them as soon as possible.
So do you think I can take it?
Let ’ s have a look. Mmmm. This doesn ’ t look too good. I think we may have to pull out your wisdom tooth. It’s pressing against your molars and that ’ s one of the reasons you are experiencing so much pain
what's your favorite dish to make?
Have you anything to declare?
Of course. We can give you a call anytime you like.
did you have to pay a deposit?
Oh! I hit it.
Yes. Are you?
Why don't you go stand next to her for a while and if an opportunity comes up, strike a conversation.
That ’ s exactly when I ’ ll be away. It sounds ideal, as long as the landlord agrees.
Hi, Nice to meet you.
Since 911 I think every airline requires that the passengers show ID to board.
No, sir. The sign says No Turn on Red.
And what name of reservation made under?
I suppose she did. Be quiet. There is a fish on the hook. Here it is. Look, a big one.
So, I can have five for five dollars?
Let me repeat that back to you, 16211469 9. That's just what I've done, Mr Kowalski, I've stopped your card temporarily.
I enjoy the different types of instruments that they use.
It's not that bad. If you talk to your American friends every day, you'll learn quickly.
Yes, I understand my qualification and your needs by researching your company.
Gotcha... OK. Here they are.
Oh, a nice handkerchief. That's a great idea. I'll take it.
Then you will be happy to here that today all our pizzas are on sale. Two for one.
I'll need an economy ticket with an open return.
The northern line is what you want.
That ’ s right, plus the activation fee, the emergency services fee, the monthly service fee, oh, and any charges for extra minutes, and...
The Cross Bakery building? Oh sure. You're actually walking in the opposite direction.
Good morning. Ru Via Hotel, Room Reservation. Can I help you?
We can provide you with information that will help you understand what is available. We also provide workshops.
Mark, you really did a good job.
but it wasn ’ t just you who was involved, right? You were only doing what your supervisor told you to do.
It seems that I have nothing to do, except this.
I think that their attitude is rather casual.
I ’ d stay over there, if I were in your shoes.
Could you tell me something about it?
I want to say...
I don ’ t really like Henry. I like my Rose.
Why did you choose to study Economics?
"Salaries are confidential, how do you know how much money these "" other people "" make? "
Sure, what is the problem?
Asking her father in front of her. How do you think she will react?
Good night, mum.
I think it is unemployment that gives rise to such social problems.
That will work out. I will e-mail the exact time tomorrow. I need you to bring your plans with you.
Don ’ t worry about it, just ask.
I genuinely appreciate the conference.
I guess she forgot your meeting. She is attending an important meeting in the company. Will you have a seat? May I leave a memo for her?
Well, it does have a lot of girls in it.
No, no limit. You can take as many as you want.
Have you looked in the periodicals?
Ok, six thirty AM. We will call you exactly on that time.
Can you introduce its price level to me?
At present I get 1,800 yuan per month.
When will it be available?
It's too biased. I just don't agree with their one-sided reporting.
I'm sorry Marry is out right now.
Yes sir, just a minute, please. I ’ ll check with the kitchen. Thank you for waiting. It takes another 10 to 15 minutes, I ’ m afraid.
Scrambled egg, bacon, three pieces of bread and a cup of tea.
Who was he out with?
There are tons of other paintings that I think are better.
I got my TEFL certificate three years ago.
What did you do at that company?
The most important thing is that you bought it for me. I am happy that you know my size and style.
I thought you'd be a bit more excited about this. Everything will be paid for and I'll send my assistant with you to take care of everything for you. All you have to do it get on the train tonight a
Those floor lamps are very nice and you can vary the brightness according to whether you ’ re reading or watching tv. How big is your living room?
Is anything the matter, sir?
I parked in front of my apartment building.
I've never tried traditional Greek yogurt, so I want to try that first.
Can you help me buy my textbooks?
I want it to be special. And you know that I always like hot food.
OK. And who are you more like, your mother or your father?
Yes. Both have sent back pictures of the planet. And the latter did a better job.
Mark, I told you yesterday afternoon that I would be using that file today.
Yes. My name is Laura Wills.
920 pm, I couldn't say. I can't remember.
I'm pretty good. I've been looking for a place to live recently. My lease runs out next month and I don't want to renew it.
Yes, they seemed to click at the meeting the other day.
What time is check-in?
I stayed up last night.
I don't really need five.
Have you any beef today?
I recently saw a piece for spicy chicken curry in a magadize. Maybe we could try that?
Of course, it's useful. And it's very crucial to have the copies of teacher's notes, because most questions in the exam are based on them.
No! Oh, my God! Someone has broken into the house.
Take it easy, honey. It's just raining cats and dogs.
Here, see for yourself. That's really strange! It's almost the same as when I...
Have you used any hotel services this morning?
I know. But it is my lucky charm. I carry it all the time.
yes, look over there. That's the Empire State Building. My book says it's 102 stories tall.
Please put your baggage on the counter and open it, let me have a look.
I have heard about electronic commerce, and many people say it has good prospects for development.
Most animals are not locked up in tiny cages. Rather, they are set in almost natural surroundings or well-tended gardens.
No, just bring yourself. I hope to see you there.
Can you get me a beach umbrella and a deck chair? I am really tired of lying in thousand.
Wonderful, Bruce is taking the lead.
Yes. How long would you like us to keep it?
Now where should I pay the money?
Well, when they leave the hospital, give me a call and I'll come back.
Why didn't you return the shirt or exchange it?
Well, could you let me see the room?
Excuse me. How much for a two liter bottle of Coke?
That dog has white long hair. It’s lovely.
Actually I think the buses and trains here are more modern.
It owns 10 factories and offers stocks to the public.
It depends on how long you take to pay it back. If we lend you ten thousand dollars at an annual interest rate of ten percent for forty eight months, you would have to pay each month a portion of the loan which is called the principal and another small portion of the annual interest rate. This of course is considering that you don ’ t default on a payment!
My name is Joan Harris. I ’ m calling from St. Johns Hospital. Are you still interested in a job as a service technician?
Yes, I think we might be free. What did you have in mind?
Okay, I'll get you one.
It still feels really strange to me.
If you attack him, be sure you ’ ll get a Roland for an Oliver.
Sorry, I was delayed by something and stuck in traffic.
Hello, how are you? I am Jack.
Of course not. We have 50 channels in all.
Oh, yes, I took him there yesterday. He showed me one that he really liked.
Water is what's best for you.
You forgot all of about it, didn't you?
Great. I'll stop by your place now.
I want to put this curtain up.
Yes, I would, as long as it's good quality.
How much would you say?
Have you heard anything about Markweed Inc.? They have called me back for interview, and I'm considering taking a job with them.
But you know if he brought it or not, right?
No. I've been visiting relatives recently.
Hey. Owen! Have you gone on your family vacation yet?
it's got chickpeas and vegetables in a spicy curry sauce with rice.
Yeah, look at all those new buildings going up! Mr. Zhang, the traffic is pretty smooth. But we were told the roads from the airport to downtown were quite crowded and traffic jams could be as long as half an hour.
You are the one who wanted to come here, Sandy. You should enjoy it.
I am sure it will be. It's been good so far this weekend.
10 o ’ clock in the morning to 2 o ’ clock in the afternoon.
Well, I want to stay under $ 100.
Haven't seen you for a long time
That all depends on how the visiting team shapes.
I must, if I want to pass the course.
Thank you, Mr.Wang.Do you have an appointment?
Perfect! You'll be working alone on that portion. Do you like to work alone?
As obnoxious as Bean is, we should still try to finish this case.
Oh, I see them. Beautiful weather should be shared by all the people.
I have no idea yet. Do you have any suggestions?
Oh, no, are they back? I'll give you another room immediately, sir, and a refund for tonight.
Okay, here's the lease. Read it over before you sign it. As you can see, the deposit is $ 300.
Sure. Here is the mirror.
If a team carries the ball over the goal line, they score points. A team can also score points by kicking the ball between two tall posts at each end of the pitch.
I feel dizzy and I have a headache.
Ah, hello. Do you have a service for buying Traveller's Cheques?
I like collecting antiques. It's expensive, but it's a lot of fun.
It does, actually. Maybe we should wait for it to clear up before we go shopping.
Sounds good. Thanks for your help.
Thank you very much
Our house special is our Cuervo Gold margarita.
How do you plan to do your present job?
the more, the merrier!
To tell you the truth, I'm really nervous. I had a dream last night that I was being interviewed by a three-headed monster that kept trying to bite my head off. Oh, wow, my palms are sweaty just thinking about it. I just hope Ms. Mendoza won't be able to hear my teeth chattering. I just hope I get through this in one piece.
Oh, God. It’s late. I ’ m afraid I have to leave.
It starts at 8 o'clock.
I want to buy a ticket to Sydney tomorrow.
You know, I was eating jawbreakers in the movies the other day, and I accidentally bit down really hard on one.
Well, you ’ re in the right store. If they don ’ t have it, no one will.
It does taste weird.
The kind that never goes out of fashion, I guess.
Hope you feel better.
Maybe, but I think people usually learn English more quickly than Chinese.
Maybe you'll call his home.
I agree. Maybe we can come back again next week.
Oh, this way please. What size do you wear?
How much for the bus ride?
No problem. We have a nice apartment located near the Oriental Square. It's perfect for people busy with office work. It is fully furnished with a service staff taking care of the trivial details.
He's a team player.
Yes, could you please put me in the non-smoking section?
OK, I'll iron your shirt for you, but only if you make me a cup of coffee.
It must be a haunted house.Are you frightened?
I am flattered.
I ’ m sold! I want to book this trip. I don ’ t care what it costs! Money is no object!
This is the new style.Two hundred and twenty-eight.
I ’ m so glad you told me that.
Great! How much per copy?
I can understand. By the way, is there anyway I can help?
Maybe we should start shopping around the competitors people.
Perhaps you'd enjoy the lamb.
You know me ; I'm always studying!
Is Petti there?
What's changed?
well, you need something to wake you up. How about a soda?
Oh, Where is that?
I thought I would feel like I was in the lap of Luxury.
Yes. We are exporting a wide range of foodstuffs to many countries. And the demand is getting greater and greater.By the way, which items are you interested in?
Let me take a look. You know why? It's clogged with hair. No wonder water won't go down.
It's in aisle A.
I see. Talking with other people is very important.
Is there any produce on sale?
We could spend most of the day looking at houses to see all that we have to see.
Will we drive to the seaside?
Well, first of all, the taxi that was taking me from the client's office to the airport broke down on the freeway.
That ’ s my brother!
Maybe I've got a higher EQ. I'm not sure.
To be honest, I wouldn't.
Could you talk to me for a few minutes about my grades?
Oh, can you check my oil and tires while you're at it?
Really? Look at the toe of this shoe. It is worn out.
But the parking might be.
That sounds interesting. But I don't know how to do that.
What a hot day!
You mean my favorite movie of all time? I guess I ’ d have to say “ pretty woman ”.
Just make sure children don ’ t play in the flower beds and destroy the flowers.
Thank you. I appreciate the compliment.
Do you have enough means to support yourself while you are here?
What are you talking about? How does it exploit people?
All right. By the way, do you often dance?
I hope it will be of some use.
Oh, my God! What do I do now? Bone head, bone head, bone head ( He smashes his head with his hand. ).
I think this spring is a good time for us to start looking.
It's 876. Here is my key card.
Is fifteen dollars OK?
Hi, Bill. Are you going to the commencement?
Well, he was playing baseball with some friends...
I genuinely appreciate the workshop.
How long have we been flying?
I don ’ t see why not.
that'd be great! I know he'd appreciate your help.
Jeff, look at this listing! It says there is a cozy studio apartment for rent, and it's only $ 700 per month. What do you think?
No, that's all. Thanks.
Which type of telephone bill would you like to pay today?
I would if I knew anything for sure, but I want to take a second look.
They are the Folk Antique Handicrafts and Collectibles Exhibition Halls.
Ok, I'll make sure she gets the message.
All right. Let me see. I think you'd wear a size 8. This shirt is size 8.
Yes, I realise that. We've spent a long time planning and preparing for the change-over. I'm confident we won't have any major problems.
You're so thoughtful!
Be careful. Now I have no one but you to depend on.
I'm phoning about the factory visit next Friday. What should I do when I arrive?
Yes, the bookshop is just around the corner.Turn left and you ’ ll see the bookshop.
Many people work for the federal government their entire adult lives. Government service can be a rewarding and secure career.
Ok. I like fishing very much.
First, we're going to change the curtains, then we're going to paint the walls.
Great minds think alike.
I did but now I ’ m for Microsoft.How are things with you?
No, but I can't imagine that a girl like you would wonder to see a war movie.
It involves a lot of travel.
Do you need help setting up or anything? I don't mind. I like to do that kind of thing. It's fun and I have a good eye for decorating.
I am reading a book about money management.
What would you like to speak to me about?
My name is Sam.
If I wanted to, could I have it mailed to me?
fortunately, I saved my work right before it crashed, so it should be OK.
Hey, Cindy, I ’ m so sorry about yesterday. I shouldn ’ t have yelled at you in front of everyone.
Well, you have to let your flu run its course. You must stop working and stay in bed to get plenty of rest. Usually it will take 4 to 6 days to make a full recovery.
Are you sure? Can you make it more exact?
Em, no, thanks. I think we'll go straight to the table, By the way. may I check my overcoat here?
Would you like anything to drink with that?
Yes. It's a feast of eyes to walking in the museum.
Never should you give an answer completely beside the point.
People fall in love with people they work with. That's a fact.
No problem at all, Mike. Just give me the chance.
Can you open this bottle for me? The cork seems to be stuck.
It’s a small world! May I know your name, miss?
Oh! Ha-ha! That's not what I mean when I said ' go Dutch '!
What is your reservation number?
Let's go to the cinema tonight, shall we?
I'll have an application form with me. You can fill it out if you're interested.
Not exactly, but I see your point.
I'm going to refund your money right now.
All right, Mr. Jones. Do you think we ’ ll need anything else?
Thank you. Where is your key?
Can I have this prescription filled here?
My boss sent me here to take some business documents back to his office. I didn't know you were working here.What a surprise.How long have you been doing this?
Come on. Tell me what happened.
that's a good idea. I ’ ll look into finding something like that.
My new plan is to wait for the end of the sand storm and clean my apartment.
I enjoy the winter, but it gets really cold sometimes.
I don ’ t know anything about the bills or laws they ’ re trying to pass.
Fine, just fine.And you?
And the chicken?
I can ’ t believe people voted for him.
How ignorant I am!
They sell them at the shop around the corner. We can go and get some in a few minutes.
You have such good ideas!
No, thank you.My husband likes steak, but he doesn't like chicken.
Irish coffee is my favorite. But I can drink any other. I'm not particular on it.
I have a dentist appointment.
I ’ m giving you some antibiotic and aspirin. Taking aspirin when you ’ Ve got a fever and take one antibiotic until four hours and go home lie in bed for two days. Take some water then you feel better.
When you find out you get the promotion or not, let me know.
Oh! The view is great! Mountains, fresh air! Stars?
morning. Rent-A-Car Agency. May I help you?
I don't like that one.
Hello, Miss Wu, This is Dan Robson calling from OTC limited. I'd like to check my last order. When exactly was it sent out?
What kind of account would you like to open?
It’s becoming more and more common. However, I don ’ t ever want to get divorced myself! What about you?
Which kinds of meat are most popular in your country?
I need some advice about my fixed deposits.
Thanks. I'm glad you say so. Oh, the music has stopped.
I am. Whatsmore, his wife is 84.
Do you have whisky?
Good for you! You ’ Ve got new curtains too. That ’ s a very nice shade of blue. This sofa is very comfortable. I could sit on it all day!
Well, I ’ ll wait.
Oh, the car is old but still in good condition. I just think we should be thrifty, whether you are rich or not.
great. It's a lovely neighborhood. And it would be nice to be neighbors again. It would be just like the old days!
Wasn't that a great flick? I was on the edge of my seat through the whole movie.
Yes. I've had one for as long as I can remember.
Ok, I will.
I ’ m not available tomorrow afternoon. How about tomorrow morning?
But sometimes it is so hard to tell the truth.
Oh, let me think... Maybe two months later.
I'd like to speak to Robert.
Okay. Did you get the Yahoo ID?
It looks like it should be here in just a few minutes. don't worry. Nothing bad will happen. I'll even buy your ticket for you.
The total for the eight days is five hundred sixty yuan.
I just got fired.
Just a minute please. I ’ ll make a call to the HR office. Yes, they confirm your appointment. Please come in. it is on the 3rd floor, room 3106. You can take the right elevator as the left on is in maintenance today.
I see. It's almost 5:00 PM now, don't you think there will be a lot of traffic?
Are there tickets for Saturday then?
At what address, sir?
Well, perhaps you're right. Sometimes EQ matters more than IQ.
that makes sense. Did you go on a honeymoon?
that's very convenient.
Where do I put the change?
I live in the Holiday Inn Lido Hotel.
sure, here you are.
Thanks, Mr. White. That's very kind of you.
I am not sure what to do to get ready for my job interview.
I couldn ’ t agree more. That ’ s an ideal place for a vacation.
I kind of don't want to leave any tip for the lousy service we received.
Actually, there's still another opening. If you are interested, you ’ ll surely get it.
I ’ Ve been playing computer games.
Betty was in hospital.
I don't like to take any medicine at all without talking it over with a doctor first.
I ’ m sorry, Jeff. Please don ’ t interrupt me right now. I ’ m in the middle of a conversation.
Okay, forget about that. S, do you have some practical dreams at present?
When would you like to move in?
and the holidays provided you a chance to think over all this and make a decision?
Good afternoon, sir. What can I do for you?
All right, all right, I will go swimming with Peter this afternoon.
I'm very glad to meet you. May I have this dance with you?
Hello, Jack. I'm John.
I am sorry. The flight on Nov. 21st is full.Do you mind if I put your name on the waiting list?
Are there any problems with the plumbing in the kitchen?
English. It was both interesting and useful, so I showed a great interest in it.
What had you gained mainly from this survey activity?
I see. I'll do it for you.
We have one day to visit the big city, can you give us some advice?
I wish it was a nicer day today.
you know I hate shopping more than anything else in this world.
Oh, come on. That ’ s such a girl ’ s show.
great, let's go!
Just make sure you never touch the wire.
Do you think you are proficient in both written and spoken English?
We just weren't right for each other.
I heard you received a prize for you book.
I sure do. In my opinion, it's actually becoming more expensive than back home.
Will you have time this Saturday evening to go to the cinema with me?
One first class seat on flight YW132, is that right?
That's incredible. Could you tell me what you did to make a start?
It's on the first floor by the nurse's office.
Bang?! Bang! Bang! What are the Kings doing at seven o ’ clock on Sunday morning?
Is it difficult to learn?
The company will pay all the expenses.
They are By new models now, they are not very expensive. Maybe you should look for one.
Everyone wants to be financial lose kill. You must invest your savings if you planed to retire rich. I ’ m thinking about buying stocks. It can be a good investment if I can manage well. What do you say?
How do you decide how often these things need to be done?
Okay. Would you please leave your address and phone number?
No, not at all.
You should first write your name and contact information.
You're right. That might seem a bit rude. It's a good thing I've got you with me!
Yes, it's fully furnished.
Who will take responsibility for the heating system if it has a problem?
How is grandpa doing recently?
Yeah. If we share the cab, it'll be cheaper. Besides that your Chinese is better than mine. The drivers usually have difficulty understanding me even though I practice my pronunciation carefully.
Oh, you don't ask much, do you?
Do you think maybe it would be better to just talk to Vince? Explain the situation?
He said not to bother coming back. And I said, fine, I won't.
Yes, I have. I handed in my application form two weeks ago and I ’ m going for an interview next week.
Yes, of course. There is a dining car towards the front of the train where they serve meals at all times. We do provide complimentary water and coffee for all of our passengers.
When you go out with friends, I don't want you to stay out too late.
All right, can I make an appointment right now?
Thank you for coming.
I have a complaint to make. The bill you sent me was incorrect. What's more, it isn't the first time
I just ran alongside the main road.
OK, superman. Put on your cape, we are going to fly home.
May I ask why you decided to switch your account to us?
The best way is to take an underground tube train directly to King's Cross. The Underground station is just round the corner from here.
Providence, Rhode Island. do you know it?
Brad Bush? Good for you!
Here's eight dollars. Keep the change.
Well, It’s not like that. We just e-mail, It’s really nothing. On top of which I am definitely thinking about stopping because It’s getting...
You mean stuff like tampons and sanitary napkins?
It's a bit small but looks nice.What ' s more, it's only ten minutes ' walk to the company.
That seems reasonable. We should get together and watch the ball drop in Times Square.
Good morning, this is Mary.
This dress is the latest fashion form Paris. It’s made of pure silk. And this silk blouse would go with this skirt. Do you like it?
All the food smells tasty today and makes my mouth water.
How many did you use to take?
Sometimes, but not quite often.
Have you ever seen Bill Gate's home on the internet?
Yes, sir. Just as the sign says. How many?
No, from here I think it's only about 5 dollars.
Take your time, sir. I can wait.
Now I'm confused again! What is the problem?
Here is the receipt. Wanna to have it wrapped, Ma'am?
Yes.It IS one of the Five Mountains.
Does this one look big enough?
Maybe I'll cook once or twice a week. How is that?
Still, you should not let down your guard. Some details should be paid attention to.
Huh, that is no reason to demand a birth certificate. We only need to establish residency, you know, a phone bill with your name and address on it would have been fine.
No, It’s not, your astrology sign can tell you a lot about your personality. See? It says that an Aries is energetic and loves to socialize.
I see. The problem, however, is that I can't be confident in giving you a good priceless I am confident your product will last.
Do you want to go out for dinner tonight?
Hi, Christine. How ’ s it going?
Hello. Is there a package tour to Beijing?
Now we know that they realize the real meaning of Christmas.
Yes. Is it easy to get around?
Good idea. Let's ask the officer for help.
No, she ’ s running toward our house. That ’ s her ringing the bell.
Are they clean?
Basically, I think Tim is threatened by me. I'm doing a better job than he is so he's trying to sabotage my career!
Oh, I have a poor memory now. I haven't had enough sleep lately. I had a bad dream just now.
We have different tastes. I like girls with short hair. I like tall girls-probably because I ’ m so tall myself.
Hello, this is 5735647 5.
Lucky number. Find its location now.
Yep. And it breathes, see!
It is not your mother finding one for you?
I'm sure you'll enjoy your workout, sir. Everyone seems to like the swim stations.
That's just your personal prejudice. Do you know who was the director of the movie Titanic?
My name is Zhang Due.
Yes, I'm excited to hear about your new product.
I will be hanged if I lying.
Yes, Ms. Jones.
You had champagne for the girl.
Not at all. You can find most of them at supermarket. The ingredients are usually the same as in western food. The way that the food is prepared is the big difference, not the ingredients.
What about all these other pieces?
Perhaps people should stop eating animals. We could grow more crops.
Do you want large ones or small ones?
Not much. I've go enough city life in Beijing.
hi, Charlie! What are you reading?
Is this another rush, dear? Did you forget and wait until the last minute again?
I think it's highly possible, yes.
Why do you need running shoes? You aren't a runner.
I'm planning to return to China after graduation.
Tom, I married Julia last month. Have you already known it?
You're welcome. This is my duty. Anything else?
That's right. Give the machine a moment to process you request. Then take your money.
That name doesn't ring a bell. But tell me more.
I've been waiting here in the conference room for ten minutes already. What time does our meeting start? Where is everyone anyway?
I am happy that we ’ Ve finally cleared up some problems.
I work at a hospital.
Oh? Isn't that like her.
What did you want to get?
I thought the special effects were amazing, but I got a bit confused. The plot was too complicated for me.
I'm particularly interested in shortbreads. Do you have some samples you could show me?
I voted for Obama.
Is it? I've never thought of any disadvantages of the mobile phone.
men are allowed to take 10 days of paternity leave for their first child.
Where are you going to school?
I have exactly the same feeling. This afternoon he explained the ins and outs of the stock market to me. He knows a lot about investments.
Well. there're actually over 200 kinds of folk collections in this city. That's half the collections of antique objects in China. There's one exhibition half for multiple collection, and several individual display rooms for private collectors.
Can you direct me to some fresh produce that's on sale?
How are we going to get there?
Really? That's great! I know that your company has a lot of clients in France.
Do I have to buy extra ticket if I want to visit the main spots?
Let's see. Have you been to a jazz club yet?
We have a runner on third and up at bat is Brian Okapi! There ’ s the pitch, he hits it! It’s going, going, that ball is gone!
True. Well, see you tomorrow.
No, there wasn ’ t. There is a bar on the ground floor and of course you can buy drinks in the restaurant to go with your meal.
All right. I'll get it.
What? You ’ re tired? But we just started about twenty minutes ago.
Oh, here you are.
It's made in China.
No, I don ’ t mind at all. I receive 3,000 RIB a month, after tax.
I'm sure you'll do fine if you try your best.
Margaret, do you think I should enroll in the science course?
Yes. You've done a good job. But there's one thing. You should narrow down your topic.
I ’ m not too clear on some things about my lease.
I want it transferred into my checking account.
Have a look outside for me. Does that look like hail to you?
Yes, give me two rolls of Kodak color film.
That sounds like a good choice for me. May I have one, please?
We'll inform you of our final decision by early July. Do you have any other questions?
people always seem to make jokes as a way to deal with unfortunate situations.
Yeah, oh my god! It’s still there. We have our first date right on there.
I ’ Ve been under stress, but no more than usual.
How many rooms does your house have?
He had a mask over his face.
There are all kinds of deposit services and also the calculations of the interest. It's specific to different accounts and different circumstances.
Oh, your classmates took you in.
Actually you haven't had much.
Mine. It's My Heart Will Go On, the theme song of Titanic. Isn't it of strong character?
It's a fifteen-minute intermission.
Hey, David. Where did you get the sofa? It's so beautiful. Look at the color, I really love this yellow, so bright! It must be very expensive.
Be a yes-man, you mean?
Size 38 or 39.
I ’ m a senior broker in a large company. I deal with clients on a daily basis, handling all aspects of their accounts personally.
Congratulations! I had no idea.
you ’ re kidding! How did that happen?
Good idea. It is always cooler in a shade.
Yes, I can do that.
That doesn't make sense. If you eat more, than how do you lose weight?
Stop running around in front of the TV, will you? Why don't you just sit and watch?
Yeah. I lost money investing in the Internet, too.
Sure, no problem. As I said, cartons are good enough for goods like this. You don't have to worry about it.
Have you taken his temperature?
No, I think that's all that I need.
I want to find a job in your bank as an accounting clerk.
In a way that's right. But the Vikings travelled there long beforeColumbus. And what about the Red Indians?
It's 687 3452.
Maybe we should keep on studying to enrich our knowledge and make our life exciting.
So, the national ping-pong team must be a highly competitive membership.
Let me see. It's £ 800 per set CIF London.
Hum, Edward Norton, or something like that.
Umm, let me think for a moment. We can meet her together after I finish cooking.
What do you think this flat?
Did you watch NBA games before you came to the U. S.?
Wait a minute. Let me throw on a sweater.
It's $ 60 here.
It's a branch of the Bank of America in Beijing.
No I haven ’ t. I haven ’ t visited the Bund either. I ’ Ve always had too much work to do.
No, I can't be there.
Yeah, I see the same thing ; now we can do the math and check that, right?
I don't know. Maybe it's broken.
No, It’s my sister.
What? Why didn ’ t you tell me before? What are you doing here?
I have no idea what you're talking about.
I ’ d like to book a room.
Oh, we always go to the movies.Can ' t we do something different?
Oh, please! Don't be so old-fashioned! It's totally safe.
Correct. And our country follows the priority of use principle.
Do you have any tissue, Eve? I've used all mine.
All right, I see.
There ’ s a real mix of stories in the book. I haven ’ t finished all of them yet, though. Many of them are short detective stories, but there are also horror stories and sci-fi ones. If you give me your
She's eighty-seven.
Perhaps you saw a silverfish, sir.
I've got some bad news about the bike you lent me.
I'm sure you'll enjoy yourselves.
Can I pay with traveller's cheques?
Be careful, Tom.Those are pretty heavy.
Fine, I ’ ll bring both our office furniture and equipment catalogs on Thursday.
Great! I'd love to get a little better discount than 6 %, but if your company provides the insurance, that will save us a few bucks...
How about a movie?
That was 5264453 6, right?
Something awful happened. We went to the Portobello Road, and someone stole my handbag.
B :: Come on! I just took a glance.
We offer a reduction of 50 % and comes to $ 10.
That works for me. Let's see what we can each do about planning our part and meet again on Friday.
Didn't they announce that our flight was delayed?
Oh, my god! My wallet is lost. What should I do? It drives me bonkers.
Sure, it's White in Room 204.
Hmm. That must be the DVD player that another one of my friends donated. He owns one of the largest electronics stores in Taipei!
Have a try.
It looks like you only have $ 57 left in your account.
No, we don't, especially the old people. But more and more young people fall for coffee.
How are you feeling, Flora?
I am leaving at 10, so I'd like to settle my account now.
I've never been to a restaurant like this before.
Guess who I saw just now?
OK. But I hope it won't take too long.
It's 600 yuan per month.The rent is due no later than the tenth of the month. We ask that you leave a month's rent as a deposit. It will be returned to you at the end of your lease.
OK, I will present your counter-offer to the owners tonight.
Is there any way that you can fix my schedule?
How may I help you today?
Hi, Tina, it's Joe.
doctors are truly remarkable.
I might try it myself.
Is it my turn?
sure, but how?
I teach at Beijing Normal University, English composition and some conversational classes.
Have you got anything to ask me?
Maybe, but there are many fringe benefits here.
you'll have to try for yourself some day.
I think this suit fits perfectly.
With the shipping included--seventy dollars.
Good morning, Mr. Huang. It's a pleasure to meet you again.
I have four years study in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and it has given me a solid theory foundation. Moreover, I have worked at CAB Company for 4 years and got a lot of practical experience.
Yes, sir. May I have your room number?
I think that we should send one of our HR people to do that. I don ’ t think we should use an agency, because they won ’ t be familiar with the type of people we employ. Have we decide on the location of the branch office?
I can only afford about 300 pounds a month.
What's on the program?
Let ’ s call it a day.
Do you like amusement parks?
I'm Mary. I want to say I really admire the software you're designed.
Oh, yes, indeed. I've run out of steam. To be honest, I want to be in a different environment.
It's blue, Samsonite bag.
Bingo! I never thought about that before. I am working so hard and my accomplishment is significant, you know.
Here's your receipt. Thank you for shopping here and have a nice day.
Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't see the stop sign at the corner. I didn't mean it.
That sounds good. But what do you want me to do there?
Hello. Where are you headed today?
William told you that his grandmother is sick, huh? What exactly did he say?
You may keep it for the time being. I'm not using it now.
Lorin Maazel. He did an amazing job. Moreover, he just celebrated his 75th birthday.
I don't think so. Dick has been on the ball and he never does things like that.
Please. And in the mean time, can I look at apartments available in the area from this office?
I've come to apologize for what I said yesterday.
Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't know.
I'm sure you'll soon begin to like it.It ' s such an interesting subject.
It was not in the past. But from 2008, we can enjoy a three-day holiday for this festival.
So you can have more room for development.
Well.. we're not sure yet, probably in St.Albans.
What's his job?
No, I ’ m not.
Yes, I'm just here to pick out some special presents for my foreign friends.
Didn't you say you want to buy a top hat?
Yes, we do. They are eight yuan per kilo.
Please turn down the TV. And not another shout or I'll have to report you to the school administration.
Here you are. Here you go. We have cocktail and salad, fried chicken, French fries and icecream for dessert. Eating chicken while it's hot. it tastes better.
And where are you from, Jack?
Well you should have picked, in the end you always complain about everything.
It's not too late. Go to buy some now.
well, there ’ s a wildlife documentary on tv in a few minutes. Shall we?
Mr. Emory, I ’ d like to take this afternoon off if it's all right with you.
Name, age and date of birth, please?
How do you feel about this restaurant?
I won ’ t be able to fix the pipe until tomorrow.
I'm looking for some fresh produce that's on sale.
Howdy! Nice car! What seems to be the problem?
Yes. That's the company policy.
You ’ re welcome.
Keep walking till ou pass the square, then turn right. Walk past two lights and turn left at the third.
I will. How would you like your hair today? The same style as usual?
So in foreign trade, you must be very clear about language differences.
OK, OK. On one condition.
I don't need to leave until the very end of class.
well, I can ’ t just image it.
Oh, cash will be fine.
are you looking forward to doing more editing work?
That's 20 dollars. Keep the change!
I think we should do a few things at once. Improving public transport would encourage people to use that. If we also charge people to use their cars in the city centre, they won ’ t use their cars as much.
I like being able to buy newspapers and magazines at the post office. It means that I don ’ t need to go to two places
No way. I want the satisfaction of squishing this bug myself. Plus, what if it's Vince?
You can still drive, without problems.
OK. Five for eighty-five bucks. That's my final offer.
Sir, guests pay nothing to use the stations.
Er, may I know how much I will be paid monthly?
No problem. I'll give you an aisle seat in the center row. And here is your ticket, passport and boarding pass. Please board the plane at Gate 15.
Sure did. It's a beauty. Where do you want it?
don't be so modest. i am sure you can dance it very well. then i'll see you at six. is that all right?
You're welcome! By the way, you'd better booked in the Internet or the telephone next time and then you kow whether there are rooms available or not.
How much do you like to exchange?
Is Saturday any better?
Should I try to put the fire out?
Do you mind I have a look at your computer?
Sorry.We ' Ve nothing further back.
But I can't bear it, John.
I don ’ t think you ’ re right there.
I have no idea about what to do next.
Yes, almost once a week.
Maybe, but I would rather watch romance, science fiction, crime or even disaster movie instead of a horror picture. I wouldn't dare sleep at night after watching one.
Sure. I'll be back in a minute.
Well, the route 5 is really charming. Must I make a reservation?
I don ’ t think that would be a good idea.
That's to keep the price down, I suppose. I'll take it up with our overseas department and listen to what they've got to say about this.
I'll go myself then.
I see your appointment. What day would you like to switch to?
I think it is good if we know enough about career planning. We will make wiser choices. What else did he tell you about it?
First of all, you should pay attention to what you eat. Don't eat too much food with high calories, such as chocolate, ice cream and the like.
But Bob is more generous and ready to help.
What a pity.
Thank you, Rick! As you can see, ladies and gentleman, we are here in beautiful Pebble Beach where the top golfers in the world are trying to win the grand prize of one million dollars!
Do you have any particular conditions that you would like our firm to take into consideration?
She is a beautiful bride.
Wow, you're right. Everything is absolutely delicious. Please pass the pepper.
I can ’ t attend the meeting in Washington. I ’ Ve proposed you as the most able substitute.
There's a question I want to ask you.
I know. I was watching a re-run. I have nothing to do and I was bored.
Why not? Sounds good to me.
What's the trouble, ma'am?
I twisted and turned all night, and couldn ’ t sleep. I was worried about my mother ’ s health.
Welcome to China, Mr. Smith.
Certainly, they did. Liao Coins and Song Coins, for example, coexisted in circulation during the Southern Song and Yuan period some 800 -1000 years ago. The Liao Coins look plain and bold in style, just like the characteristics of the Mongolian tribe. Let me look for one and show you.
Yes, I used to be the monitor of my class.
I disagree. He was polite and informative, and he drove smoothly. One should reward good service.
Dad, can you just tell me what it means? I'm too lazy.
You are right. I am not boasting, but she is really as beautiful as she is intelligent.
I had a wonderful experience with artists.
Yes, but what will happen if the bus is late?
My permanent address is Apt. 401, 238 Zhongshan Road, Beijing.
Almost. Let me get my bag.
That sounds absolutely fantastic.
Yes. What's the buying rate for euro?
OK. What do you think of it?
Thank you. Good evening, Mr.Dean.
Please wake me up at seven tomorrow morning.
Yes, it is. We've been dating for over 7 years. We have decided to get married on a special day and we think August 8th, 2008 is a red-letter day.
Ginseng comes in 6 different grades. It runs from 5,000 to 30,000 NT a jin.
After eating, we will take down our tent. Then we will pack everything into the canoe, We can shove off by 6
I think you ’ ll lay it to rest with the time flying.
You mean it has a cheaper price than similar models?
He is a worker.
I want to be a part of history.
I promise the next holiday I have we're coming to visit. Oh, what's your flight number?
I went to a private school for elementary school and university, but went to a public school for high school. What about you?
Fine. Let's call a truce. I'll try to more considerate and to keep the noise down.
I started a new job last month and I'm expecting my first salary.
Once bitten, twice shy. He said he would rather keep bach than to live in disgust.
Sure, just a second.Who ' s calling?
You won't have to pay for anything.
Yes. I graduated this past June.
Do I need to do anything else after I turn in the application?
I have been very busy this year, working late, often taking work home and taking no vacation. I feel exhausted.
Of course. How about these postcards? They are specially designed for Christmas.
That ’ s all I needed to know. Thanks.
Only four days! That's so short, and you seem so crazy about her.
In that case, shall I ask the waiter to bring you a knife and fork?
Indeed, we got married too soon.
I do a forty-hour week. I ’ m on flexi-time. I usually start work at 8 a. m. and finish at 4
All this is thanks to the efforts of my superiors and colleagues.
Morning, Madam. This is the window for Foreign Exchange Savings. How can I help you?
It is ok. My boss briefs me later on.
Do you need anything?
Oh, yes.How old are you?
Yes, but to the heath, this break has long enough.
Yes. Is this your new product this year?
Well, I am really surprised. By the way, have you done anything behind my back?
Sit down here - don't put any pressure on it. I'd better call the company doctor.
Oh, yes. I heard there was an opera fans club. They are probably practicing now. Wanna have a look?
It was great! How was your year?
Then we can have one more program at our party?
Yes, that ’ s right, you have the job now.
Fishing. It's great fun.
I'm looking for a Sharp DVD Player.
Why? What was it about?
You never did it on your own.
Thank you. I have to leave now. If you see Pamela, tell her I'll write to her.
He must be courageous enough to fly in the face of established authorities.
Yes, I am expecting some money wired to my account from Taiwan. Would you please check if the money available yet?
That will be sent on to you within 2 working days. Then, you can start using your new card.
well, it's about how an immigrant girl achieve her dream in America. It's a sitcom but really quite smart and really funny. I think you'd like it.
We drove to the lake and had a picnic. We had a great time! How about you? Did you do anything special?
I was part of a band in school.
Let me take a look. Just a second. That ’ s no problem, Susan. See you on Wednesday.
And everyone knows that Americans ' favorite food is the hamburger, isn't it?
No, I'm afraid we'll have to cancel the order. I'm not sure whether it agrees with me.
That ’ s my wish.
same here. Have you seen any new films recently?
How do you figure that?
I ’ m sorry, Sam. I don ’ t want to foc-concert.
Yeah, I'm very worried about his health.
I think his house is fantastic, but I wouldn't want to live there. You would have to hire one or two people to clean all the rooms in the house, plus a few people to take care of the gardens, and pro
Welcome, what would you like to order?
Cool! We can watch Ally Mcneal!
You're screwed. You can't do anything about that. You have to hope that you get some classes that will be useful.
Many people think Brazil makes the best coffee. Brazil exports a lot of coffee. But I love Irish coffee. So it's hard to say. Just depends on your taste.
What a pity!
Well, I've got to stop and get gas in the car, first.
Hi there. I'm calling about Personal Internet Banking, what details can you give me?
I don ’ t know about that.with all the uncertainty in the markets right now, it would be a very unwise decision to invest. I don ’ t know if you ’ re aware son, but there has been a lot of turmoil in the markets recently. There have already been half a million layoffs in the last few months, and we have no idea how the proposed stimulus package will impact the economy. There ’ s just too much instability. I wouldn ’ t feel comfortable investing in this climate.
Two air tickets.
The Merriman satin sheets?
It's too complicated. I'll just stick to the plain clothes.
I just had a terrible week.
Sure, but what do I wear?
I can't believe that the air in this city is so dirty.
What style will the ads be?
perhaps one month. I'll just have a try at first.
Yes. That would be nice. When do you want to go?
No. And then I often go Rollerblading.
sure, that would be great.
Last night. I think I may have left it in the lobby bar.
what do you have in mind?
How are your work now?
Don ’ t forget to bring your health card with you.
How long is my paid vacation every year?
Problem and disputes occur mainly due to difference in the laws of countries involved. For this very reason, it is imperative to establish from the outset which law governs when disputes arise. The most fundamental principle of all international contracts is the applicable laws and regulations. Make sure that the arbitration clause in your business contract be all-inclusive.
Much better than the last one, huh?
Is it a Chinese New Year's gift or a birthday gift?
I like pop music. Do you?
I'm Frank. Nice to meet you.
I feel like maybe I am coming down with the flu.
Thank you, Mr. Jackson, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, friends. The subject of my talk is international relations in a morgen world. I plan to say a few words about the current situation in the Middle East and how it affects world economy. I'd like to give you an overview of the way that the economies of seemingly unrelated countries are intertwined. I've divided my talk into three parts, first an overview of international relations, second a discussion of current political situations, and lastly trends for the future. My presentation will take about two hours, but there will be a twenty-minute break in the middle. We'll stop for lunch at 12.
Thanks for everything.
We have two. One is like this one. The other is a little smaller.
I just heard that our school will hold a singing contest in 5 days.
What colour is her hair?
That's not the point. Come on, can you imagine that there will be no electricity on such a hot day?
OK, I'll have Mr.Baker call you as soon as he comes back.
It means a hiker who loves traveling around the world.
Yes, it seems that way to me also.
What's the fare, please?
Well, I've got to go. See you later.
That artists was lit!
I'm always at your service.
Well, last night I had a big argument with Ann.
Isn't it a nice day?
Four by six, except this one. I want a ten by thirteen print of this one.
May I have a magazine or a newspaper please?
do you like animals?
I can wash my clothes for less money here.
Because this order is a comparatively big one, we would like to pay by time L / C, say, 60 days L / C.
First class will be preferred.
It's OK. I can always get a clear picture on it.
But it's only a film.
What would be the earliest that I could actually move into my new house?
According to the documentary, they have an incredible ability to find water supplies, however small, and then store them without losing much through evaporation.
What ’ s this one?
Man! That car almost hit me!
Take the books out of the bookcase. Put them in this box.
Sure. I will try my best to slow down.
Are the bedroom sets at IKEA affordable?
Okay. But what is a tailgate party?
Not that long ago, I think it was four months ago.
Yes, I remember.
You can buy a money order and mail mature immigration.
Have you every given money to any of the charities that take care of animals.
Women are such dreamers.
Oh, no, get off it. It wasn ’ t such a killer class. You just have to get into it. Like they say, no pain, no gain.
How do you think about her?
Fine, madam. When will Mr. Brent be arriving, and how many nights will he be staying?
Yeah. It's pretty exciting to be here.
Excuse me, sir. Can you tell me where I can buy some chocolates?
You're kidding. The story and acting were outstanding.
What do you think is the biggest change?
Do they have a large family?
No, I have some, but not enough for the long weekend.
Do you take reservations?
You are very welcome. Anything else I can do for you today?
Good morning, sir. I ’ Ve got breakfast your ordered.
It's there, near the mirror.
Yes. I ’ ll take four shoulder chops and I ’ d like a small chicken.
Hey! What happened?! My song was only half way through and it skipped to the next song.
I hope you'll try to get them to step up production.
When will I be able to do that?
All right, see you later.
What time shall we go?
Really? Why would you worry about me? I ’ m just fine.
That was a thirtieth birthday present. You can have it if you want.
Actually, It’s a little bit silly.
Don't make it too short. I just want a trim.
Dad, I want to draw with crayons, can I?
Unfortunately, our company is shutting down due to the economy.
You ’ re right. This year should be much more exciting than usual. What ’ s you favourite award category?
You need to type your PIN in.
Many times there are special services available to certain groups like Women at Work or job help for non-English speakers.
Yes, I have. I was there in April.
Do you usually go on a summer holiday?
It’s a beautiful day here in New Zealand at the Men ’ s Volleyball world championship. My name is Rick Fields and I ’ m joined by the man with the plan, Bob Copeland.
Yes, I want to spend a couple days in New York. I have friends there I will visit.
The only problem is that I'm going to really miss having the freedom that you have with a car.
Hi, I haven't seen you in a while.
Well OK, I am just afraid of getting food poisoning.
I agree. And some cartoons are entertaining even for adults.
Her name is Rose.Why?
Yes. You could use five or six units.But five or six wouldn't be very efficient. I recommend seven.
My holiday is only six weeks, but I think my brother and his family would take it for the other two weeks.Is the house in good condition?
I think I ’ m tough not only physically but mentally.
Are they all right?
Is the room ready for the meeting, Miss Chen?
It’s blond.
Don't mention it, I'll just wrap this up for you.
That is great, i will take this two, how much is that?
Hi Paul. How are you, friend.
It's a two-bedroom one, and renovated building with an eat-in kitchen.
It has just occurred to me that there is still another possibility to ensure a prompt delivery of the goods.
Sony please.Do you have extra charge for delivery?
I graduated from Peking University.
Excellent! Now what are the hours?
Well, no, it can ’ t be that hard! I mean, all you have to do is explain your business, how you are going to do things and that ’ s it, right?
We're thinking about going to America.
I think I'll put my bag in the overhead compartment.
You need to blow off some steam. The world is not on your shoulder.
Yep! I heard that your company is registering a new trademark.
Sure, why not? I think I want a chocolate chip cookie, too.
Ok, I'm sorry. Are you the librarian? Maybe you can help me, I am looking for a book.
I believe in that. Well, the performance is about to begin. Let's be quiet.
Just a few Christmas gifts, to this season, after all!
A lorry overturned on the road and blocked it, so all the traffic was held up.
Are you sure there are no more open classes?
The Godfather and The Godfather II, of course. They were both directed by Francis Ford Coppola.
It takes a long time to learn a language, doesn ’ t it?
I'll give it a try.
Ladies and gentlemen, here is the Westminster Abbey. It's one of the oldest buildings in London.
I'm going to do some shopping. Why don't you come with me?
So what happened?
I think we are running out of time. The bank is going to close soon.
By the way, how long is my probation?
Let's blow on it.
Oh, is that all?
I don ’ t think they are right. I have tried my best and that's enough. It is unfair that they are always saying these thing. Sometimes I even feel deeply hurt.
Let me see if I can fit you in. What kind of room do you want?
What is that below?
I'll take this one.
we have digital TV. It's amazing though---even with 100 channels, there's often nothing on that I'd want to watch!
OK, I've finished cleaning the blackboard.
I must have slept right through it.
what kind of music do you prefer then?
Exactly. Herry is almost broken now.
It's been a week, and I haven't slept that well.
Women in particular. They are anxious to get rid of those thick and clumsy winter suits and put on their new fashionable spring dress.
Certainly. Have you decided which material you would like the suit to be made from? We have a selection of materials over here.
Is it like a zoo of polar animals?
I sure am. How about you?
A man came into the bank with a gun.
I got the short end of the stick.
to be honest, I'm a bit fed up.
I have some. I worked in the IT department at a language school for four years in Spain.
I understand. So, what would you like to do with the balance?
Good, we'll take 500 suits.
Got it! Wow is that the weight you are lifting? My goodness that ’ s a lot of weight!
I ’ ll tell you at the party.
Are you nervous about meeting up with your ex, Femi?
At least she didn't suffer.
You'd better shape up if you want to get the job done.
OK, I'd like to purchase 500 US dollars worth of Traveller's Cheques, please.
Got it. Bye for now.
Thank you for coming. I'm glad you liked it.
Don't be so dramatic. You're such a baby. Now sit down and finish your soup.
thanks a lot Ayden. Every little bit will help. Tell you what, if you aren't doing anything tonight, why don't you come over and have dinner at my place.
Oh, no! What happened?
Here you go — Digital Barbie.
I used to play football regularly when I was at university.And I used to do athletics in the summer.
thank you. Is your company going to move to other cities?
No. You're going to do the entire house.
Thanks. OK... your balance is 320,214 RIB. How much do you require today?
Did you enjoy your meal?
Good afternoon, sir. Please sit here.
Well, your qualifications for the job are excellent. And is there anything you'd like to ask about the job?
Am I late for the party? Looks everyone is already here. Hope I didn ’ t miss something interesting.
OK. Please hold on a minute. So you checked in on Monday and stayed 3 nights in single room 1005. Is that right?
Of course I'm right. I already told you the rule for Las Vegas. Remember?
I hate third base. It's scary when the ball is coming at you so fast.
I certainly do.
I don ’ t know. Let me see.
Driving during the rush hours can be a bit of a bind.
No, thanks. I'll have to meet my friend at the airport.
Yeah. I bet you did forget everything. What's the date today, do you know?
That ’ s quite the array of nationalities. Everyone in my class is from Asia, except me. There are a few South Koreans, several Japanese, Malaysian, Thai, Singaporean, Filipino, Kazakhstan, and o
The better you sand it, the better the finish will be.
Do you want some stuffed bun? It's delicious, too.
I don ’ t think so, Mr. Parsons. I think you have covered all the main points for me.
How much duty should I pay?
He was alone.
Get new friends.
Well, yes, I did. I ate some ice cream.
Could you give us a detailed description of the properties of your product?
Does six thirty suit you?
Let's sing it together, shall we?
Here's the money, keep the changes, please.
Honey, where did you buy this skirt?
That's true. You need to take some time off to relax.
How sweet of them! I have to work in the day time, study at night, and do housework during my spare time. I really hope I have eight arms and legs, like an octopus.
Don't worry, I won't drop it. Wow, it's really heavy. I don't think I can move it by myself.
How do I contact them?
Can I have a bite?
The consignments of chemical instruments have just reached us. We have to lodge a claim against you for inferior quality I am afraid.
For two days.
Why are you so crazy about bird-watching? What do you get out of it?
You're my hero.
I really did, but what ’ s so great about it is that It’s really affordable.
Sure, madam. I ’ ll remind you.
Doctor, I slipped and fell on my way to school. The ground is so slippery from the snow. It seems I can't move my left arm now.
I'm very annoyed at your disobedience.
Can you tell me which Sons you want to go to?
OK, go ahead--what is the excuse THIS time?
Oh, George, what a beautiful day it is today! The sun is hot and there are just a few clouds scattered here and there! What a perfect day to be at the beach! The kids are going to have so much fun! A
Yes, I'm looking for a book on Chinese history.
Are you going to cook anything?
Oh, I see. You know, we spend time doing different sports. How much time do you spend exercising?
Will you please explain the meaning of this word?
Luckily not.The silent I meet are generally very friendly and have a good boss.
But today is Friday. You are not going to work overtime on Friday evening, are you?
Let's line up. The steak is very inviting. I'll have it.
I've been feeling pretty ill for a few days now.
Sure. He ’ ll get the bag. I think.
Really? You don ’ t look very Chinese to me, if you don ’ t mind me saying so.
C - A - R - O - L. Carol.
Here you are. We have three different colors, white, blue and pink.
Can I borrow some money from you?
What qualifications should a reporter have?
Ok, I will contact you in a week. See you.
I don't mind the work. I think it's worthwhile.
Have you received your TOWEL test results yet?
Have you received the reading material handed out yesterday?
Put it on the table.
Yes, and would you like to have seats in the front or at the back?
It's almost time to get aboard.
But you should make up your mind first.
Oh, good! You know, I am looking at my plate and I ordered scrambled eggs, not fried.
I'll bet he enjoyed his walk.
Oh, I don't like that Restaurant. I don't want to go there.
Yes. I ’ Ve read news about him in today ’ s paper.
There are so many to choose from. I didn't know you could do all of this using a card.
No, no, for the engagement.
You mean that people look down upon you because they think you're in school because of a quota? That's not true at all, you're really a smart guy.
You should be able to easily find that for twelve hundred dollars a month.
Sure. His skull, his eyes, his nose, three times, his jaw, his shoul-der, is chest, two fingers, a knee. As he said ' Everything from the top of my head to the bottom of my feet! '
So many places I have been looking forward to. We will take part in the group.
There is a wait right now to use the computers.
I may just do that.
Excellent. I ’ ll see you on Thursday at 9 30.
You know that? Joan has got the scholarship.
You can take a 15 - inch Pro home right now for only $ 2,100.
That's very expensive for the family of the bride.
What's the brand?
Where do you think we should go on holiday this summer?
You look really beautiful in it.
oh, you know me. I ’ m always happy! If I think I ’ m getting into a bad mood, I call some friends and socialize or have a chat.
Great. We can go to the swimming pool in the gymnasium after that.
That's insane.
My name is Du Tao, number 3.
When do you need it?
the biggest price jump is for pork, so most people have to turn to chicken.
Yes, Sir. We can provide these loans in both local and foreign currency, Temporary Working Capital Loans, Short-term Working Capital Loans and Mid-term Working Capital Loans.
Do they have any grandchildren?
I didn ’ t get accepted.
What's the exact information?
Well, you asked for it. Why don't you put on an Elvis ' song for him.
OK. How much do you want to bet on this game?
Sometimes pink is not bad, too.
I've been accepted by the university, and they've offered me a position on the basketball team!
But as for his business in the city...
Did you stay up late last night?
Not bad, But she's as busy as before.
I ’ Ve changed my mind.
We might be getting one in the near future. But at the present time, no.
How you tried this one? It’s very good and you can download it for free on the internet. You can also download updates for free.
I'd like to go and live there for at least another year. Probably I'll go back to Sydney or maybe I'll go down to Melbourne because it's a really interesting cultural city. They have lot of museums and parks.
Very well, thank you, Mr. Parker.
Which train is the ticket for?
I'm going to the Golden hotel.
Great food and lots of patrons? What more could I want? Please reserve a table for me.
Didn't you just eat?
You have 30 days to catch up on your rent, or a sheriff will evict you.
Well, we'll both have to start learning all the new dances.
Yes. Let's start today.
Hi, Mr.Lin. I am leaving tomorrow and I am just packing.
Why do you want to work for us?
You drive a hard bargain! OK, that's a deal.
In London.Where do you live?
Yes, it is. What about it?
OK.sir. Please go upstairs. Someone will open the door for you.
I don't know what I'm going to do. I need to find a job. If I don't, I won't be able to stay here next semester.
Sure. I'll give you the next size up. That one is small, right?
Perhaps it is like what people told you. At 24 hours midnight, the time when the New Year really comes, we exchange ' Happy New Year ' to each other, and parents and grandparents will take out small packages wrapped with red paper, in them are some what we call ' Lucky Money.
Correct. Now for a harder question. Who will be the first men on Mars?
Linda, would you care for some candies or cookies?
What happen, John?
Precisely! For example, Flares were popular for a while, then went out of fashion. Now we can start to see them coming back in again.
How should I get their contact info.
Yeah, it's really a unique experience. It's a solo concert by Pavarotti. He put on the performance in the Forbidden City in Beijing.
Okay, here's my ID and the $ 27.
The film will start at 2
What's the meeting for?
We're rather busy right now. It will take another 15minutes
You got me.
Yes, there is a lot of to be taken care of---wedding photos, wedding dress, catering, transport, hotel, etc...
are you good at making decisions?
And how ’ s your brother?
Are all of my test results on that site?
We need to get you to an emergency room to see what the problem is.
I have no choice.
As a matter of fact, he hasn't been feeling too well.
You see, I bought it for my husband, but he doesn't like it.
Sure, welcome anytime
What special skills do you have, can you tell me?
Any body piercing? Stick out your tongue!
What are we waiting for? Let's go!
that's true!
And how long do you you plan to remain in the United States?
Do you want me to put it on the belt, too?
Well, I'm not sure. Maybe it means we can buy something through the Internet.
I can't agree more. I think we'd better hire a guide so that we can learn more.
I'm ready.
Do you have any direct flights to Toronto?
Well, I'm looking for a job.
About three weeks.
Can you pass me the lighter?
I don't think so. Coffee helps me wake up, keep alert, and improve my short term memory.
Do you have an account opened with this bank already?
Let me take a look at the schedule. I ’ ll get back to you this afternoon, all right?
By doing whatever is necessary.
Thank you, sir. Enjoy your stay with us.
A little actually. My sinuses are a little blocked up as well-I really feel terrible.
You are very late, but I was on pins and needles the whole time.
Yes, I am aware of them.
Oh, the smelly bean curd. My favorite!
It ' s an Indian restaurant! I know you have never had Indian food, so I thought you might want to try.
I want to check in now. Here is my ticket.
I need to get my high speed internet installed.
Have you got your visa yet?
You'd better get on with your homework! You can practice on Sunday.
I'd enjoy that.
That's a good idea.What ' s on?
So, why don ’ t you just stay here?
I thought we could go to some of the museums.Don ' t you want to see the museums?
Yes, it is. It's very urgent. I feel awful. I have a terrible toothache.
I heard that Ann had divorced.
Yes, can you tell me how to use the phone in my room?
Why are you so calm? Are you not surprised to hear this?
They are not feeling satisfied?
I won ’ t be able to fix it at the moment.
Yes, it is, and the lustre will never fade out.
Can I have the window seat over there?
Can we make it 11:30? A customer will come to the office at 11.
And how did you get around town?
Congratulations on the new apartment.
But you should pay special attention to your words and attitudes.
Here is the bigger size.
that ' for sure but very few.
No, tell me more.
I think this color isn ’ t quite right for me. Do they have the same dress in white?
I meet too many jerks.
What do you need today?
Good morning. Can I use my cellular phone during this time?
It sounds good. I will bring the papers I'm working on.
Sorry. I didn't quite catch what you said. There's a lot of noise outside.
We go door to door asking for donations.
You can take that with you.
I ’ m mixing the sauce. It’s my speciality. I make it according to my own secret recipe.
Flat C. 15 / F, Tong House, Tai Koo Shing.
So. this is your first day in the new position. How do you feel?
She sounds like a good teacher. Do you think you ’ ll pass her class?
Yes, that ’ s right.
Much better now. Thanks again.
I'm looking. Can you still remember what the conductor said?
What shall I do then?
Could you tell me which bags are yours?
I see. Can you give me some idea how long he'll be back?
How he manages to do that is always a mystery to me.
This was stated in our agreement.
Unfortunately, this is what I have to do.
And you shouldn't miss the Louvre Museum. You can stay there for at least a whole day.
Did you take any cold medication?
Well, Tom. It's good to meet you. I have to go now. I am teaching a class this evening, and I need to get to the college.
I think one of the least costly ways to attract business is to ask some of our neighboring sites to offer links to our page inside of theirs. If they have related services, they may be willing to help us out.
That ’ s fine with me. I don ’ t hate vegetables and I don ’ t eat much during lunch.
I'm willing to wait until you have come to a decision.
Well. I can do it. And then?
How is the condition? How old is it?
What kind of drinks do you have?
About two month ago.
What about in China? What'd you do to celebrate your birthday?
Large deposits of coal were found nearly and so many industries located themselves here. The village quickly grew into a key industrial centre.
No, who was it?
Well, experience is not important in this job. We are looking for a man we can train to be a teller. By the way, do you like to work with figures?
Of course, Mr. Roberts. But, could you tell me his extension number again? I haven ’ t got all the numbers down yet.
Hi Kevin, how was your year at college?
I think he will come back at 3 p. m. Do you want to call later? Or would you like to leave a message for him?
Ah. The Royal, I think.
That is a relief. It's a good thing we moved.
No, I don't. You look pretty busy today. Do you have an opening for me?
We might have a printer here next month. But for now, you'll have to go to the lab.
She certainly has the taste.
I can understand. I was lucky with my oldest, she figured it out by herself and didn't tell my son.
Which department do you want to register with?
Dessert sounds perfect, but I would like to split something with my friends.
Oh, sorry again, thank you mom.
What would you like to return?
Freeze! Police! Put your hands over your head!
Yeah, but he really puts blame on me.
Just fine, thanks.And you?
Uh, I can see a red double decker bus. It's the kind of bus you'll see very often in London. In fact I know this bus is from London because I can see the names, Chelsea, Sloan Square, Victoria, Herring Cross. These are all areas in London. Um, so obviously the bus is in London.
What are you talking about? We had a great time. We laughed and talked all night last time.
I have been getting headaches almost every day lately.
Yes. I'll have a room free next week.
But why? Did I do anything wrong?
there's an open mic night at the pub down the road every Thursday night where my favorite local band usually plays. You should come along next week with me.
Not yet, but I saw the movie.Could I borrow it when you finish reading?
No. You know, there are many schools and styles of kung fu. What we will perform is a set of Chinese shadow boxing.
That is good of you.
I'm a little nervous.
The Iranians will give us a 10 % discount if such a high order is placed with them. No doubt you know an incentive discount encourages the buyers and helps expand seller's business.
What wish do you make?
You'll have to prove it was their error ; then you can get an extension.
you ’ ll be lucky! However, I ’ ll print out the information I got from the internet and you can do it yourself.
What are you going to enjoy?
Doris, I'm glad you're home. I'm terrified. I don't know what to do!
I like alternative music.
Yes, sir, it is.
Summers is hot and usually lasts a long time. Winters are short, but cold, wet, and windy. I love the summers in my city, but I hate the wintertime.
Then what do I do with the cup?
Well, you see, I won't be able to keep my 9
Then I came back here. I worked for about three years to get some experience.
Is that the box-office?
What shall I do with my two more bottles?
I think maybe I could be there.
If I smelled bad, I could smell me.
We have been together for a year and usually, people who've been together a year, take their vacation together.
The mayor and high official practice crony is mand a large number of guys who are good at nothing occupy many important positions.
I didn't know you knew how to draw and paint.
Ok. How about the earliest possible shipment?
I have one but it can only be used in my country.
OK, Mum. I'll invite my friends home.
Yes, so that's an extra £ 6 for both of us.
That sounds terrible the way you describe it. But you know, not long ago I really suffered on the bus.
In the past, our welfare program has consisted of benefits packages only, meaning partial health insurance coverage and retirement plan. But we hope to boost morale by increasing incentives and adding additional welfare considerations.
Yes, to tell you the truth. I am on the diet.
Did you have a good weekend?
Let me see. How much should I pay for you?
You mean fat boy?
Here ’ s your key.Check out time is 12 noon.If you want to stay until 6 p. m., It’s another half day.After that you have to pay for another night.
When did you get your passport?
Please Show your ticket and passport.
$ 19 a day or $ 129 a week, unlimited mileage.
Thank you, Kenvir. You're so kind.
Is it difficult to understand?
how do you know her?
What is the rate?
Look into the mirror and see if it'll do.
You really shouldn't be lifting this by yourself.
I ’ m a bus driver.
It's just the job I've been searching for.
I passed all the tests, Mom.
Yeah. Maybe I can find my favorite car in addition to Honda.
It was a few things. The first thing that happened was that we were supposed to go out for a romantic dinner for our one year anniversary, but she stood me up!
Certainly. Come to my office at ten ten. Be prompt, please. I've another appointment at 11.
Of course! I am very interested to know how my child is doing and also get some insight from you as to how he can improve.
Happy New Year, Rose.
Fine. Let me take a look at his schedule. He ’ s free on Tuesday afternoon at 1:30. Could you come in then?
Well, his wife is Japanese. He said she makes really good sushi.
I think they only need a little trimming.
Make it Thousand Island.
I ’ Ve looked at your units, and I am very happy with them. Your goods are all far above standard quality.
What time you suspect back them?
Let's eat out.
This is your voucher, and you can get your luggage back on this. Have a good trip!
Actually, it is impossible because the mountain is covered with snow all year around. And is has heavy fog for most of the time.
Yes, would you please tell her Eric Martin called?
I love apple pie too.
I'm afraid we have to reschedule it.
Fine, how are you doing?
Zina, why are you whispering?
Believe it or not, it has the opposite effect. Employees are actually more productive on casual days.
Be patient, miss. It'll just be a second.
Yes. The personnel market is a place specially for job-hunters and employers.
Have you ever gotten a parking ticket?
Do you like biscuits?
were your parents upset that they weren't there to see you get married?
Yes, I played shooting guard, I like shooting and you ’ ll play inside, OK?
Lisa? No way. I've heard a rumor that she and the boss were having an affair. You know rumors can't come out from nowhere.
Don't lose heart. Everything will be fine.
Thank you for your hospitality.
You shall go easy on her. she is new here.
Oh, you do? Good. Looking out of the window sometimes scares me. So I prefer to be the man in the middle.
I didn't really like it.
Do you know what color your wife often wears?
I would like to order 2 office-style cabinets and desk calendars. We want office-style cabinets in white. The catalogue number is 90 - f - 2356.
no. what's it like?
They produce manifesto. These documents which states their policies. Some people just vote for the same party every time there is an election. Votes who often change the party they vote for are called floating voters.
What are these trees opposite to the pine trees?
Judy, what is everybody talking about?
All your important documents and certificates should be in the desk drawer.
Which type of deposit do you prefer, time deposit or current deposit?
Our summer season ended in September. So the discount will be 40 %. That ’ s a good deal. Would you prefer rooms with a front view or rear view?
He's prejudiced, isn't he?
The journey is worth while. Where are we going after this?
With private room, please.
Great! Do you know how to get there?
I ’ m glad they ’ re coming in August. Maybe Greg and I can play some golf or get tickets to a baseball game.
Have you got boxes for sale?
That is just a natural, grammatical English expression. It has a direct translation in other languages.
I'll put them in my schedule. Are there any other messages?
Is it true that one of our competitors is planning to launch their tracking service next month?
It will be expensive to do outside the campus. Perhaps we could arrange for some sponsorship.
I'm free. What's up?
That's good. Do you live near here?
Dad, I never eat breakfast.
Yes. My house is far away from here. May I ask for an apartment?
Yeah, you seem to like those styles.
Yes. You must put on its name and full address.
We're not turning on the heater in May! You need to take a bath. We'll heat you up and see if you can sweat this thing out.
OK, thank you, Doctor.
We will have a vacation next month. Why not have a tour?
I often see some ' new age people ' show off their various skills to handle a skateboard, which makes me wonder in awe.
Yes, go straight along Beijing Road and turn right.
What happened afterwards?
I see. Do you know how much the ticket is?
Hi, Mike. Haven't seen you for a while. How's Cathy?
I don ’ t understand how you can have any sympathy for show biz stars. They ’ re overpaid, over-ambitious, and over-adored.
Of course. I often go to the movies.
Your tradition of throwing rice as they got into their car was interesting, but it didn't look like real rice to me.
Your job objectives, of course. In other words, what kind of job are you searching for?
How about your husband. Does he help much?
Certainly. Do you currently bank with us?
I see. Now please fill out the form.
Throw the ball up high.
Who knows, maybe one day he will sit on the desk of a top CEO in a major corporation!
I'm afraid so. I'm terribly sorry.
Oh, that must be me! Probably they typed the name wrong.My husband's English isn't so good.
Pretty soon cars will be driving themselves.
It's for the drinks.
What are you guys doing?
that's good to know. I'd like to try more Chinese food, but since I can't read any of the menus in the restaurants near my home, it's difficult to try new food.
I don't think I'm getting better.
And this is your company's head office?
I'm so terribly sorry to keep you waiting.
A glass of juice please.
When will there be a job fair?
Well, in fact, it is beyond our financial capability.
Did he crash?
Let me see them. Yes, they ’ re OK.
Is it a very long bus ride?
It's nice to finally meet you.
Don't be too sad. If you really think that you have no feeling with him, then, in my opinion, getting divorced maybe is the best way to solve the problem.
Your unit price is 100 dollars higher than we want. Well, I suggest we meet each other halfway.
Make good use of that day off ; you'll only have one this semester!
I ’ m sure that he will.
OK. Do you plan to go to America all by yourself or with your family?
You wouldn't! If you leave, you'll make nothing.
Long time no see. How is everything at home?
I think you ’ Ve got everything. I want to got some chocolate and some cheese.
Yeah. How are you these days?
But I never saw them.
You are absolutely right. They are too brief. They don't tell you anything.
You can deposit an initial amount of five dollars.
Do you mind if I ask your friend out?
Maybe. Who knows?
Yes, this machine is even smaller than those before.
Hello Mrs Parker, how have you been?
That's OK.
Oh, that's where I'm going.
You ’ re supposed to clean your teeth before you go to bed.
Since we are neighbors, if you need any help or anything, please come to me.
Hello. I hope you can help me ; I'm a little worried about my new card.
I'm not quite sure.
She was pretty, her hair was the color of rich dark chocolate, waving gently to her shoulders. Her complexion was clear and golden.
He will be back at about seven o'clock.
Don ’ t you always fail in the math tests?
Could you come back later? We're right in the middle of dinner.
Yeah, he is going to move next month.
There you are. As you can see, the maturity isn't up yet.
I need help turning them on.
Well, as I know this company is one of the largest and best in this field of business. It mainly produces toys for children. It employs more than 10,000 people throughout the world. The president now is Mr. Jackson. The Shanghai branch was founded five years ago with a staff of more than 2,000.
Really? But can you guarantee the safety?
Yes. I brush my teeth in the morning, just before I go to work. It’s actually the last thing I do before leaving. Then I brush again before bed.
623 West Side Drive. New York, New York.
This cafe offers a wireless internet connection. That means I can get on the net for free while I ’ m here. Of course, I have to buy a cup of coffee!
What's the name of the series just showed?
What about the car over there?
OK. Wait a minute.
Poor Mary! She really liked him.
I just thought I would ask.
Well, with the ticket, you can get a free drink. What would you like? Orange juice?
That's what my parents want me to do.
Sir, does this apply to intra-office communications only? Or will it also restrict external communications?
Great.Let ' s start next week.Thank you, ma'am.
Yes, but they went to the public without any patent protection.
Isn't there anything else?
I've had enough of it while working under the sun in the day. I don't need any more sun-tan.
then he must be opening his heart to the friends. In a word, as long as you demonstrate a readiness to drink more in spite of already suffering extreme discomfort, no one will jeer at you.
That's too much. We need to use the separate units, I guess.
I know I deserve it, but I can not find a way to talk with boss about this.
Yes, thanks. Did you?
Did you enjoy the restaurant?
That's the reason I want to finish my B. A. in four years.Because I know I will be in school a long time. I want to start the M. A. and Ph. D. program as soon as possible.
Currencies? As in Euros, Dollars, Pounds and Rupees?
I'll tell you all about it next Monday.
I certainly have.
ok. But can I trade my seat with you? I prefer the one near the window. I'm a terrible flyer. I always get airsick and can never relax until after I've landed.
And what is your destination?
Don't worry about it! Just come at five.
Absolutely. With your expertise and experience, you're clearly working below your pay grade.
What should we buy?
Economy fare for single ticket from New York to Beijing is 400 dollars.
Good. We're tired after driving all day, and we're looking forward to relaxing in a comfortable room.
It's OK. You could send an email to the employer via the internet.
Yes, I will. Take care, then.
He got arrested on Friday night and spent the night in jail.
You're right. They can discuss what to get and avoid buying the same things.
Why was it founded by the Puritans? Where were the atheistic educators?
I don't like ads, either. But ads could bring big profits to the TV station.
Well, the government offers its employees excellent health insurance benefits.
She is tired, but getting a lot of rest now.
What packages do you have?
Darling, the airplane is going to take off. I have to go.
Show me your card, please.
How can you live without job in the future?
People are funny.
ok. I'll pick up your hotel at 6 thirty pm.
That's fine. What salary do you get at your present position?
Well, don't blame me! I never get a chance to watch TV.
I am sure my friend can give you a ride.
Once a week.
I try to go to sleep, but I just can ’ t stay asleep.
How many people are there in your family?
Are they window seats or aisle seats?
Yeah, I went to school today. Were you there?
Can you tell me something about the Spring Festival?
Well, why not use buses or the MET?
What? He can't do this to you.
Well, apparently, he's been having an affair with his secretary.
I hate the hot weather. I'd rather stay indoors with the air conditioner.
That ’ s a big family. How old is your brother?
It's very kind of you. By the way, when does the pool close?
Ta da! Let's go to the Ritz!
Oh, yes. It's a great party. There are some people I don't know, though.
Good morning miss. Wang
oh, I didn't know you can play the violin. Do you still play.
I know, sweetie. Just open wide. Don't talk.
Mmmm... well, I am happy with your service so far, so I'd like to renew it, please.
Haven't seen you for ages.Where have you been?
Nice day today, isn't it?
Can you play baseball with me today?
Oh, really? Would you transfer to another company if it is not what you expected?
May I help you, sir?
I would like to tell you that my clients are very satisfied with the last delivery of your slippers. The styles and colors are very much to the taste of our market.
I really feel like having a big juicy steak!
Day tour. How much does that cost?
That ’ s fine. Thanks.
They give you discounts on some stuff that you want to buy.
Yes Anthony, come on in. Have a seat.
Yes, twice last week.
Can you imagine having a million dollars?
Well, my sister is a lawyer.
their goalkeepers got injured after the first goal, but he kept on playing anyway.
I'm afraid I can't wait that long. Can your office at least provide me with a ballpark figure?
I have two kids. A boy and a girl.
How much does it come up to?
Good. Where shall we meet?
No. if you do that, the workers won ’ t like their jobs. They will be less efficient and you will get a high staff turnover. Those things will increase you costs.
What kind of media do you recommend?
We got a problem. The deposit boxes are all full. We should have come earlier.
Beauties Picture, how may I help you?
Hi, Lily! How is everything?
Your employer can tell you if you have been paying into unemployment and now qualify to collect.
Here you are. I'd like a window seat.
Do you know his sister?
But it makes the place feel so much like Christmas. I ’ d really hate to have to take it down.
Those stains will be cleaned out of the carpet before you move in.
What a lovely dog! How did you know I love things like this?
OK. Is it in the box? May I see it?
Hello.this is Susan.
What park do you want to go to?
No, I don't like the brown one.
Open it now.
But the problem is she and her ex-boyfriend are working in the same department. It is somehow embarrassing for them to see each other everyday.
Please follow my instructions. Use a wet towel to cover your mouth and nose. Walk quietly to th nearest emergency exit. Now go get the wet towel.
Do you have a big family at your hometown?
You're here today to argue your ticket?
You mean we can't just buy curtains already made?
Hi Jim. Do you have a minute?
I guess that would be better.
How long will the trip take from here to New York?
You have to deal with a lot of pressure from your parents.
Why didn't you tell me? I didn't know you were one of our students.
Certainly.Four more stop after this. I'll call out the stops.
No, not necessary. Usually we have a set form which is printed. We just fill in the printed forms and send it to the person or the offices concerned in the company.
Well, I personally don't like them because I don't believe that they are healthy.
I think a bottle of champagne would be a good idea. It's appetizing and tasty.
Operator. Can I help you?
I'm very sorry, sir. We accept only VISA or MasterCard.
Oh, I feel miserable. I've got a bad cold, My head is dizzy and my nose is running.
Nothing really, why, what ' s up?
Sure. As for our financial situation, you can inquire about them in the national bank. They handle all our financial documents.
Unscrew the burnt fuses and replace them with the good ones. You can find them on the rack in the basement.
We all went swimming.
Well, I guess for $ 400 a month I shouldn't expect an all bills paid apartment.
you don't look very happy in that picture.
You said it. I always count on him when I need his help.
Women love roses, so your wife will be very happy.
I highly doubt it. Your girlfriend is Chinese.
Ok, I'll get one for you.
Thanks. But I know falling in love is one thing, while staying in love is another.
Dark brown, if you have it.
Mark Wyatt? I am sorry. The line is terrible.Could you spell that for me, please?
What's the rush?
After the trouble I got into last year, no way.
Pancakes? I don't like pancakes. I ordered waffles.
Gladly, 8962105 2.
Sharing knowledge can be very settled and some second stances. People may think you are telling them how to do their work. If they take it personally, they feel angry at you and even become reluctant to support you at work.
What are the problems you have encountered in your job and how do you solve them?
I should admit that sometimes I care too much about the details. I am always in pursuit of perfection.
How old are they?
We will lodge at the indigenes ' houses. It's interesting.
I remember that. It was a great movie. But it was definitely scary.
I ordered a sandwich there before.
I usually try to go to bed around 11
Well, I suggest that we discuss only the clauses and points where we have different opinions just to save time.
Well, it is hard to find a parking place in the city. Besides, parking is quite expensive in the downtown.
Are you going to vote on Tuesday?
Alright. I'll have another drink.
I think most people do. I like wearing nice, colorful clothes in summer, you know, a nice dress or skirt. It’s too cold for those kinds of clothes in winter.
Does it ever! Well, let's get started. If you could begin typing this letter now, I'll see what else needs to be done.
I don't mind waiting as long as we get this straightened out.
I knew there would be a shower, but I didn't realize it would rain cats and dogs today.
i had one a few months ago, but she ended up running away.
Excuse me, could you please show me the way to the human resource department?
What makes you think so?
Yes, it will take about four hours. We can leave about noon and get there by supper time.
Mr. Reynolds? Rick Murphy. I ’ m the accounting manager for Macmillan and Emory, Incorporated.
They'll discuss personal concerns, housing, adjustment, finances and other matters with you.
I am sorry. There is a speed limit.
I know. I wonder what's keeping him.
let ’ s start with you. How was yours?
What are your hours on Saturday?
I've gotten a few.
OK, see you later.
No problem. Good luck
About 50 miles.
I can't remember, but it's the second light.
Don ’ t you think she is a bit out of my way?
So, when are you going to inform the owners of my acceptance?
Yes. I wonder if you could do something to help me recover soon, because I'll be on a business trip in two days.
Yes, sir, I'll be there in just a moment.
It’s Alex... Have I got some great news! We got the Baker account. It’s all ours!
Did you hear the weather forecast for tomorrow?
excuse me, could you tell me which line I ’ m supposed to stand in to buy bubble wrap and to post a package?
Before we discuss the price, may I ask you what kind of exhibits you are interested in?
It suits my taste. You are really a good cook.
Well, they took us along with some paramedics. There was this guy who fell off his motorcycle and suffered a concussion as well as a couple of compound fractures. His wounds were pretty serious so they had to rush him to the hospital. It was intense!
Sure. I've got a copy here. It's due for renewal at the end of next month. We've still got time to look for another supplier if you're not happy.
What are the reasons?
Also, are they allowing the apartment?
I'm glad. I bet he won't make that mistake again.
We'll be delayed for one hour, because the airport is very crowded.
It looks good.But can I try it on?
Sounds like a tiring schedule.He ’ s probably got a lot of homework too, eh?
He didn't say, but he said he would call me.
Could I possibly make it early in the afternoon?
I am maintaining the building. You are way too picky!
You know that I only allow one absence per semester, don't you?
Nah, don't be so fast. We like your work here, but this company is on hard times and I can't be handing out raises for anyone.
Yes, but I think I'll have orange juice first.
You really should go to Rachel's pet store.
Excuse me, sir.Is there anything I can do for you?
I had to go by myself, he couldn't make it.
Hand-baggage is not to be weighed, sir... I'm sorry, sir, you're 25 kilos overweight. I'm afraid there'll be an excess luggage charge, sir.
Yeah, many of my all-time-favorites were made in the forties. They've already stood the test of time and will stay with us for a long time.
I teach English.
Double one, zero two?
Sure. I like the writer's language, too.
Thanks to global warming, it could be hotter than ever!
It's there by the window.
Well, you've been working on this assignment for five hours.
Well, It’s only three stops from here.
And what should I do next?
I have an interview tomorrow, so I hope I can learn everything quickly.
Yeah, she ’ s broken up about it, poor kid.
It's said that some measures have been taken to deal with this problem. Paying online is much safer than before, but I still have the feeling that it's not safe enough.
I ’ ll need you to pay more than that.
Hi Steve. What do you think of the new supplier?
Really? I ' m so sorry I bothered you. I ' ll try again.
Well, I like playing the violin.
Straight ahead is the gourmet kitchen.
Well, keep you chin up! I ’ ll try to help you. Where are you going?
I hope so. Thank you again for your delightful gift.
maybe... I'll think about it.
So it is hard to be a black student on campus?
Please do, the fitting-room is over there.
He's busy. He said next week.
Please bring our salads to us now. We are hungry!
What are you doing to increase understanding in the European sector?
Centrum? We have bottles of thirty and one hundred tablets. Which kind do you want?
That's good answer. I appreciate your being frank.
But I can't skate well.
Yes, we're all proud of her!
Could you give me more paper napkins?
I'd like to do it, of course. But I just can't. I'm afraid I'd fall down in the middle of it.
What newspaper are you reading?
well, your work experience sounds good for the job we have open. Now tell me about the best job you ’ Ve ever had, please.
That's great. I know people who can't stand each other for even five minutes.
Would you please wrap the shoes first? I would like to buy a sweater.
Do you even know where this bus is supposed to go?
Does she go to night school?
You idiot! Don ’ t say that! Do you want this job, or not?
How do you do? Those women are very hard-working. What are their jobs?
Yes. It has one bedroom, a large living space and 4 kitchens.
Our rooms include television set, air-conditioning and a bathroom.
did your house ever get damaged from the winds?
Here you go. Can I deposit some into my account and take some in cash? I need 1,000 RIB for my expenses, you see.
What's happened?
I want to lower my risk of heart attack and stroke, too.
My bad. I didn't realize that it was so late.
Yes. After so many years of hard work, I ’ d rather I had an office of my own.
I am calling to query about some of your information.
Can you call the owners with my acceptance right away?
Yes. I have a very low-key life ; I have a great life. I love what I do and I love how I spend my time, which isn't in a public place.
Sorry, sir. This is the last one we have in stock.
We'll try to arrange it but I can't guarantee, sir.
Do we need to put on the jackets too?
I'm not.
My mom says no boyfriend until I'm in college.
This is Peter Kaufman.
Well, actually It’s just about luck.
It's from 10-12 on Monday and Wednesday.
Did you see May today?
I can live with that.
You bet, Emily. Pull up a chair.
What about the balance of the order? Can they also arrive at our company quickly?
Is there any kind of ice cream you don't like?
Have you seen the tower in front of us. That's the famous Eiffel Tower. It was built in 1889 for the World's Fair.
Right. What are you going to do tonight?
There are no age limitations as such just that the loange should be below 55 years and of course, old enough to get a loan, meaning over 18 years of age.
Then I will simply have to invite all the Robinson ’ s over for dinner on Thursday.
I've already forgiven you. Actually, I also owe you an apology. I was so rude to you that day.
Your fees total $ 235.13.
OK. Do you think we should meet in the morning or in the afternoon?
Is this all right?
Alright. And I want to consider your eye shadow too.Do you have a color chart I can look at?
Oh, steve. Stop it! I am a bit nervous! What if he doesn't call?
How long does it take to cook meat on the barbecue?
So click here, then up to the top.
Good afternoon, madam. Is there anything I can do for you?
Ok. You haven ’ t seen my company car, have you?
That's all right. Well, it's all together $ 260.
Not a problem. I can just trade my plate with his.
Will this do? Your major is not related to banking, as you know.
Thank your for calling World Airline. What can I do for you?
Come on, Dad, I need thirty thousand. I wanna get into the market. You know, I ’ m tired of hearing all this news about the economic downturn, the inevitable recession, people stuffing their money in their mattresses. I look at this as an opportunity. This is a chance for me to get a jump start on building my nest egg.
OK, I will send Beker to help you. We need to get the brochures done and sent them to our clients on Friday without delay.
It was. Let's stick with the regular choices today, though.
Why not? I've got the rings ready.
This is my first day at work!
At least the fish were saved. If that's the end of the damages, then everything isn't that bad.
Can ’ t you remember the days when you had the hots for me?
Is it possible for me to view the apartment today?
But my father did not. He didn't have much time.
Yes. It should be the fragrance of plum blossoms.
Good morning, Miss Monica. Nice to meet you again!
It's not breathing!
It's very thoughtful of you. Wow, it is so beautiful. Could you tell me how American people celebrate Christmas?
I am so glad that you decided to stop by!
I'll see you at the airport at 12 thirty P. m.
It's a good thing that I have choices here. Can you tell me about the one on Saturday?
I still think that they only got married to get more publicity for their movies and themselves.
That ’ s right! That ’ s the queen and that ’ s the king. If the other player captures your king, he will say ” Check Mate ” and the game is over! Doesn ’ t this sound fun?
Of course! Both children and adults enjoy her books.
Yes, but I need the report copied on transparency paper.
You don ’ t need to bend your elbows that much. Bend them so that your arms are at a 90 degree angle. The most important thing is to remember to keep your body straight. Many people bend the
Would you come here in twenty minutes? We're right in the middle of dinner.
I was really glad to hear about your promotion. Congratulations!
Sure! You just basically gotta let the caller know who they called, and ask them for their contact information so you can call them back.
You should always remember that one customer one file is the rule.
Yeah. And I never want to go again.
We'd like to rent a flat near the university.
You know what? I ’ ll just have everything dry cleaned.
OK. Do you think we can go buy a newspaper first?
How did you first meet?
It is worth 100 yuan and your bill comes to 230 yuan. The difference is 130, please.
To be honest, I'm not exactly sure what we require just now.
People decided to use the blackout to their advantage.
Here you are, sir. You are all set. I hope you enjoyed your stay and that next time you are in town, you will stay with us again.
Why? I mean, what exactly do you do to a car that you need to check it so often?
By train or by plane?
So you should make an appointment in advance with the company for the interview.
Then tell me why you sped up on the yellow light.
Yes, we want to stay in the ABC School District.
It says here that It’s m mainly used for big football matches and athletics meetings.
I see. I guess I should be more careful about what I read, especially on the Internet where you have no idea who anybody is.
I understand. It's good you came to the emergency room.
Just promise you will let me treat you to dinner next week, ok?
Not much. What a surprise to see you here.
You're very kind to say so. Thank you. Do you think tomorrow morning would suit him?
I love the fresh air, the scenery the exercise, and the time to think.
I called about that ad we saw in the paper.
that's a good idea. Can you set the oven to 200 degrees Celsius?
Yes, but you have to get a phone card first.
Yes. Sure. You do have storage service. When will be checking out tomorrow?
Where? my car?
But your brochure said that this was a package deal and the hotel ’ s services were all-inclusive.
Not today, Honey. Don't eat too much ice cream.
That's Cathy. She is pretty, isn't she? She likes dancing. Ask her to dance.
Everybody is buying them.
I would like sirloin steak and tomato salad.
She is, like, mega-intense, isn't she?
How's it?
I'm skeptical. Mars is made of rocks containing silicon, iron, and various minerals. It also has an atmosphere of carbon dioxide. It is so different from what we have on earth, you know.
Then which will be your first choice?
Where would you like to have your dinner?
But it's quite convenient for you to go to any part of the city. The subway is nearby.
Sure. I have to talk to my office anyway. I hope we can find some common ground on this.
If you get the promotion, what will your new title be?
The room is away from traffic noise.
What's up? You sound a little down in dumps.
Well, maybe we'll go to ask Mr. Johnson. He has the final say.
I think that they will move in the day after tomorrow.
Hello. This is John ’ s Distribution. Can I help you?
Come home late one more time, and you'll find your stuff outside.
Boy oh, boy! This is so cool. Let's rock and roll!
You want to bet?
Thank you, they are beautiful.
That'll be fine.
I feel that you should see a pulmonary specialist to check for asthma.
Well, yes, but those people always start talking to me. I never talk to them first. Perhaps I ’ m not as shy as I think. Anyway, you ’ re certainly not shy!
I think it's a very complicated issue. A part of the difficulties women have advancing in the work force are due to few opportunities and many male managers. Don't underestimate the good ole ' boy system. Men have power, so it's easier for them to stay in power.
I major in Chemistry.
Excuse me. I have booked one ticket on BN118 for tomorrow.But now I've changed my plan.Can you help me refund the ticket?
I can just take it from your account, you don't need to give me cash.
I see, yes, I can do that now. I'm sure you know, as I may have told you before, you should pay an extra 20 RIB handling fee for this service.
Yeah, it reminds you why they say baseball is America ’ s favorite pastime.
Yes. We are kind and welcoming people.It is not a secret society or something like that.
After you've solved this problem for me.
Turn right at the second crossing and then go straight for two blocks.
First, as far as I know, your company has had an impressive growth record.Second, I want to get into the foreign trade business.
Yeah. My grandmother gets by on social security and the money my grandfather invested when he was alive.
I have taken some courses in college, such as translation, business English, and so on. So I have a good mastery of both spoken and written English
It’s rather cold. Isn ’ t it
Mary, why are you so tired?
Thanks. By the way, my name is Mary.
Oh, Linda, you must be so excited about going to study in America.
Remember to match it with your glittering star-shaped necklace. Very attractive on formal occasions.
Maybe I'll try that store out.
Some provide wrong pictures for the goods, so many buyers are deceived.
I hate to do this to you, Alice, but I ’ m going to have to ask you to put in some more overtime.
Yeah, I went over the figures this morning. We're finally started making money again!
That shouldn't be a problem. What is the exact address, again?
I ’ m working here today.
did you get the position you wanted?
Any time. I'm just glad I could help.
I only know him through the... you are not gonna believe this.
Sorry, the connection is terrible. I'll call you back because I can't hear anything.
Neither too cold, nor too hot.
We're going to visit my sister in the city.
A, whatever you do, the most important is perseverance. So you have to hang on there, the longer, the better. Then some day, you will find you've already made a lot of progress.
Please take us to Harvard University. By the way, is it far from here?
I'm afraid not. The price is very moderate.
OK, I know. Would you please help me clean the kitchen?
Drink a lot of water and have a good rest. You'll be well soon.
Yeah. Cold milk wakes me up.
Let's see what we'll take.
the May holiday is coming up soon. Are you planning on going on vacation?
It is in the hotel ballroom down the street.
It's 5:30 by my watch.
Our country is already changing as it is.
I see. Please put your address here then.
Helen gets on very well with her neighbors. I wouldn ’ t be surprised if they went to the party too.
How about Sichuan food?
Easy. It’s on me.
Mom, you know that Andrea and I sometimes worry about you.
So Chris, I've heard that you're from a big family. How many people?
Don't worry. Family comes first. Come on, let's go.
You should have been there. It was intense.
How long have you been having this problem?
I've been told you might have a vacant room.
No, I haven ’ t, but I thought about joining the green party.
I hate cigarettes! Nonsmoking.
Yes. That is why I'm here.
No, that won't be necessary. I just need a taxi.
What ’ s your nationality?
Hello, Could I speak to Mary, please? This is Mrs. Fort here.
Well, if you're not seeing anyone, maybe we could...
And a storm blew our roof away.
Are you kidding? It's too early for her.
What time will you be home?
Sure, I'll try my best. Here we are.
Stirred or shaken?
All right. Oh, I nearly forgotten, I left my sneakers at my office.
All right.That sounds more interesting.
I like word games.
Yes, I ’ m thinking about signing up for a tour in the travel agency. Their next tour starts the same time as my holiday does next month.
Do you think going to the registration building will help at all?
I am not surprised, you eat too much.
It is a job at an advertisement company.
I don ’ t know. The ones who stole my uncle ’ s motorcycle were pretty good.
No, romance is boring.
Yes, maybe they are short-handed in the kitchen tonight.
Do you have air ticket and claim tag?
Here is my friend Bob.
I'm figuring out my budget.
I'm so sorry. I have no idea of it. I washed silk dress the first time. I'll buy a new one for you or I'll give you money.
Thanks. Have a nice trip.
We were awarded government funding last year and in order to keep it we have to hire so Ay new employees.
Which team is your favorite?
He is going to Canada and to live with his son.
Yes, tell him Mr. Cook called and ask him to return my called as soon as he back.
What about my SIEMENS?
Just a haircut. I washed my hair this morning.
Is there any other way I can reach him?
You can go to ZhongShan Park.
It will be the best as long as the weatherman is right.
OK. Can I serve you anything else?
Where did it happen?
You ’ Ve been a sales manager for three years. How do you like the job?
Sure, I love porterhouse, too.
But my sister bought this pair last month.
Maybe he is on the way home now.
I don ’ t know how to use it.
do you have your cell phone with you wherever you go and check text messages and phone calls from time to time?
Bill, Happy Halloween!
Yes, I enjoy working with that.
It's about 3 kilometers.
I guess the first thing is the price, the second is the size, and of course the color will play a role too. But I have to be honest. It is our today ’ s responsibility to take care about our environment. Therefore, I will also pay attention to the fuel consumption of the car. You know, the rise in gasoline prices is huge. So I would rather to consider a smaller car with smaller engine. For which I can also save some tax. Last of the list, I also consider the safety.
Be quick. Put our bags in the deposit box.
Would you like anything else?
In the van.
Easy as pie! We can get everything set up for you right away. Then, you'll be shopping securely online in no time at all.
The same to you, Joey.
How long will that take?
Do you have a pen that I can use?
one glass of red wine coming up!
I can't decide what to get.
Their family is very similar to Cindy and Ron ’ s family.
That's fine.please call again later.
Oh, I just remembered I've got a report to write.
I seldom heard the quarreling of her children.
No, I can't. I've really got important business.
Let me see. Yeah, There are two such rooms left. May I have your name please?
I see. What is today's schedule?
No! Stop playing computer games!
How come it is slow as a snail today?
Cut what out I ’ m not doing anything.
doesn't everyone? Which games are those?
I really did! I started thinking about what I wanted to say three weeks ago.
I cannot understand why she always helps and supports her brother.
Yes. I would like some information for requesting a loan.
Our family is a little different. We go to church on Christmas Eve instead.
Do you have spare time tonight?
What station do you work at?
Oh, I'm very responsible, I can make fast decisions, and I do not need much supervision. I enjoy completing challenging tasks.
What is two hand touch and flag football?
It would largely depend on the size of the order and the items you want.
Here we are, Joan. This is the Palace museum, also known as the Forbidden city.
the meal are truly remarkable.
Sorry I couldn't help you.
Which train is that? Which platform does it leave from?
We'd better have a heart-to-heart talk with him.
Hey, The Cosby Show is on!
How about the charge for the days you shared the room with your friend?
It’s too bad I did all that shopping yesterday!
Hey John, did you register for classes yet?
Okay. I ’ ll pick you up around 6
I'm fine, Dr. Beecham. Yes, just a cleaning and check-up today.
That's fine, but then you'll always look plain.
Here is the swimming pool and we can swim later.
yes, they are. That ’ s very important to us. We like to live in a home with plenty of natural light. Each room has large windows.
That ’ s a pity! Then when would it be a good time for you?
Oh good we are almost there. The museum is round the corner from the Post Office.
When I booked the room, your staff didn ’ t mention this. And the brochure and your promotional mailings do not mention that.
Thanks! I'm so happy. It's like a dream come true.
Hello, Sir. Can I help you with anything?
OK. I hope you will be in touch with me shortly.
that may be true, but black is so boring. Anyway, I already have three black suits. I might as well get a suit that stands out from the rest.
Yes, I have. I think that I've hurt my back.
No way, Gordon. I know that you are a little short on cash at the moment. There's no need for you to pay for the whole bill.
Certainly, you need to pay a deposit at first, and you will pay the rest monthly.
Oh yeah, that sounds pretty cool, I guess...
She's going to be so pleased with this.
Mum, pass me some more please!
I see. I am sure we can offer you $ 3, 500 at the beginning. Would that be satisfactory?
What happened to you?
It sounds good.
And also tell me how to use other switches.
I don't know, I just saw the dress and thought about how pretty it looks and how much I wanted it. I guess I was too impulsive.
could we possibly discuss my salary some time?
That's great! How much is it?
Oh, no. I don't think I'm in that good form.
We put $ 500 into the savings account, and $ 750 into our stock account.
well, you are a very hard-worker.
Well, I want to discuss with them the new control we said last week.
Well... is that a pet? Isn't that something from the zoo?
Very well, thanks. Nice to see you again. I haven't seen you for a long time. What have you been doing lately?
With tomorrow being Labor Day and all, I think it would be a nice gesture to let all the members of laboring staff leave work an hour early. What do you say?
Yes, sir. What would you want to drink, coffee, tea or milk?
Yes, that's right. You have a good memory.
The color I use now is rose. How much does this rose foundation cost? The 100ml bottle.
Sorry, he is in the middle of something. Can I take a message?
I hope you'll do better in the final.
Did you hear peter just retired?
I'm Rudy Randolph at 818-555-1234, April ninth to the fifteenth.
Did you like the Chanel bag that I got?
To be honest, I don ’ t plan in that much detail. My goals tend to be general ; I define success according to the job at hand. I see myself advancing as I succeed, but I don ’ t necessarily dwell on
It's 40 $ plus tax per day on limited mileage.
One orange juice, scrambled eggs with bacon, toast and coffee.
Yes, you have to work overtime a lot due to the editing job.
We may go abroad. I ’ m not sure. My wife wants to go to Egypt. I ’ d like to go there, too. We can ’ t make up our minds.
well, I do like the mantelpiece and the coffee table, but I don ’ t really care for curtains. Did you get them at a yard sale? They look ancient.
Good evening. May I help you?
Yes. I think so. It’s not a very expensive apartment. It’s in the right area and it has everything that we are looking for. The rooms are quite large too.
What is the reason for extension?
Oh, sure. Once they reached middle age, they became a lot less uptight.
If you refuse to take risk, you can ’ t have better returns.
Do you know that I fell in love with you at the first sight.
I can't believe the way our landlord cheated us.
I suppose she's right.Does she speak English very slowly?
You're such a dreamer! You think that you can spread the word of jazz in an underpass?
Sorry, not before 10 thirty.
I was wondering if you could get together with me to go over the payroll.
The cereal is over by the breakfast foods.
Yes, it will be at three o ' clock this afternoon.
Sure. It's on you right?
May I take your order now?
Oh, cheer up. A girlfriend is not everything.
B-E-L-K-N-A-P.
Oh, that's fantastic!
I'm glad to hear that. With a view to expanding and further enhancing the bilateral relations between our two parties, and in particular, exchanging timely views on specific problems in the execution and enforcement of contracts, is it possible for us to have a representative that could stay permanently in Washing - ton D. C.?
Because you seem to have lost your vigilance. You should be on the watch out.
in China at least, coffee is often associated with an exotic, well-to-do bourgeois lifestyle. Coffee is often considered a hobby of the well-educated, middle-class people.
Ok. But can I trade my seat with you? I prefer the one near the window. I'm a terrible flyer. I always get airsick and can never relax until after I've landed.
When will I get a raise?
Rock'n'Roll, I guess.
I have and I can prove that is 100 % true for you.
You ’ re back already? The water was too cold, huh? I ’ ll tell you a secret. Do you see that small pool of water over there? It ’ ll be warmer in there. Go see if you can find some seashells or catch some
How would you describe your ideal job?
Come on man! I even got dope and acid! Try some!
I also have done it.
Oh, it's almost 9. I need to hurry. I am running late now. See you after class in front of the library then. Bye!
Drop it in the mail box mark out of town. at that corner.
Maybe it's because Susan's parents are both painters.
Lots! Have you done any research about the company?
It sounds that you have a high opinion of him.
His excuse was familiar. He said his car died again.
Oh, yeah, It’s quite of variety. Regular, cold perm, straight perm, pink curl and form.
Good. I'll give you a call tonight.
No, I shouldn ’ t think so. But you must take your passport of course.
Yes, bring me a bottle of wine and filet steak.
How about if we watch a comedy. I need something to get my mind off the frightening images I have from the Sixth Sense.
Sure. It's H-I-L-T-O-N.
Is this a duty-free shop?
But we still have to find one. Can we find Arden to check whether this is true or not?
Tell you what, give me your phone number.
This waitress has really been on top of things, hasn't she?
Is that what you really think?
Really? How was it?
I think it is a smart idea. Our boss always likes it when employees take initiatives.
I am going to miss you, too.
Next time you come in here, I will recognize you.
Uh... I mostly just like to listen. You're the groom. Why don't you go first?
writers are so woke.
How can I have the good external expressions?
I use those sites. Hey! Let's go check out a flea market later.
Fine, Mr. Richardson. What do you have in mind?
What day is it on earth?
You're going to need your ID to pay the ticket.
A new film is on. Have you ever seen it?
Nothing particular. But,...
Oh, I like the color.
What do you think of this one?
May I try on this pair of shoes?
The owners may wish to pay to have the problems fixed, or maybe the price of the house can be reduced.
We could hire a car and travel around the interior of Australia for several days. If we hire a car, we can go where we like.
Happy birthday, Ms. Lin. Here is a present for you.
I know that. But that has nothing to do with being unlucky. Those who created the virus are deliberately making fun of people.
I know it is a crucial position, but I can do it well. So I'm asking for 200,000 Yuan a year as a starting salary.
That obviously depends on how things go - - whether I'm suited to the firm and the firm to me.
Hello, Mr Lawson. It's a pleasure to see you again. You seem to be in here all the time at the moment! What can I do for you today?
Really? What time do you go to work?
No, don't you know what happened?
Do you have any experience working with a computer?
I don ’ t like the pointed toes. Let me take a look at what else you have. Too high. That one looks like the back would cut into my heel. I have a high instep so I doubt that one will fit properly. I don ’ t want bows. I find slingbacks very uncomfortable. Those might as well be stilettos. Too modern. Ah, finally, this is what I ’ m looking for.
Yes, I find jogging does good to me, so I keep on doing it.
Did you pass the test your first try?
Well, you're right, the resume is limited in how much it can tell someone about a person. That's why job interviews are important to let people know the real you that they can't see from a piece of paper. But resumes can be helpful in explaining things and giving a good impression to a potential employer.
What's the building to the south of the library?
oh, here's to your health.
How about seeing a play? I hear Hamlet is on at the National Theater.
Okay, so... To Whom It May Concern, I am writing.
I take the subway to work everyday, so I'm used to it now.
Four hundred yuan.
Yes, we do. It is an exciting moment.
Impossible. How about 5 % off?
Yes, I want a pair of sport shoes, Jordan.
But I only have 900 in cash here. Can you let it go for 900 yuan?
I have to pay 25 cents a day?
I will. Thanks a lot.
I have little chance to communicate with colleagues when I have problems. They are always too busy to help a green hand like me.
Thanks. Let ’ s go for a celebration this evening. Are you free?
No problem. I will do it immediately.
When does the job start in the afternoon?
That sounds fantabulous. I have dreamed of going there for months.
I'm serious, Zina. Back off. I have a bottle of pepper spray in my pocket.
Or they'll take over the market before we even get started.
What sort of welfare facilities does your company provide?
I'm going to New York.
It's nice to meet you. Thanks for coming.
It makes sense.
Who's she then?
I would like it blended.
Needless to say, as a Westerner, it's bread.
The amount of English I know enables me to do general desk work. I believe the amount of English I know is sufficient to work in a South Korea firm.
Forsythia. It's also called winter jasmine which is the symbol of the spring's arrival.
I can't wait to see it.
Can you stay a little longer?
Yes.We have an excellent service here.
How much does it cost?
What kind of fruit do you want?
Excuse me.What did you say?
About 6 in the morning. I like to walk to the office.
Oh, I hate getting voicemail instead of a person.What did you do?
They must have got in through the kitchen window.
I'm an engineer at IBM.
Huh? I can ’ t hear you, the music ’ s too loud.
The bank will give you a PIN, and you can withdraw money from any ATM.
Yes, Ms. Rodriguez? How can I help you?
Oh, yes. My friend told me the hotel was near the Central Railway Station.
What kind of juice do you like sir?
It happened last night.
Yes. What were they? Anything that will help sales?
Well, I don't eat any meat, but I do eat fish and eggs.
We've looked over your letter and resume and I'm very satisfied with them. Today I want to invite you talk about insurance you're interested in.
It ’ ll be mailed to you within two weeks, but you can borrow books on the temporary card.
I ‘ m really not sure. Usually just one or two films look set to sweep the awards ceremony, but this year there are several contenders.
Did your teacher tell you the route he took?
I got it from Macy's.
I agree. And it's very convenient.
You get five paid sick days.
Isn ’ t this great? I always wanted to own a farm, live out in the country, grow my own food!
Did she ask you any questions about your family?
I'm considering buying a new car, the old one hasn't been running too well recently, and was wondering what kind of credit you can offer me.
Debit please. Also, could I get cash back? Fifty dollars would be great.
Mike, I can't catch up with our Chinese teacher very well.
Thanks very much. I'm sure I'll be back, so see you again soon. Bye!
One dollar to five franc. Is that alright?
Is it from 9:00 to 12:00 in the morning and 1:00 to 5:00 in the afternoon?
It's a long time ago. When I first went to a bar to pick up girls there, I saw the most beautiful girl sitting and sipping a coke. Then I went up to her and said ' can I buy you a drink? '
that's a good idea. But maybe we should move the car so that the hail doesn't dent it.
What time does the seven fifty-nine get to London?
I'm looking for the cameras.
I think it is centrally controlled. They control it at the main desk.
Does this happen all the time or mostly when you are active?
They're also good for your digestion! Would you like some kiwis, too?
Try to be more careful in future. Look! you've damaged the sign.
Bob, how about joining the boxing club this summer vacation?
You have made a poor meal. Let me get you some more fish.
Do you miss your family?
Well, drop by if you can.
I will bring it up over Sunday brunch.
You really didn't have a very traditional wedding, did you?
You have all the fun, don't you?
I don't smell bad.
Our regular price for Digital Barbie is $ 29.95 plus tax.
I like both of the two hats. Can you give me a discount if I buy both of them
Is the hotel going to charge me a dollar a minute for gym use?
I have an issue.
Just alright?! ? She's hot!
Merry Christmas! Mary!
Well, I think the waist is a little tight and the sleeves are too long.
I'm not sure. I don't enjoy cooking that much. As long as we can order it from a restaurant, we don't have to learn to do it by ourselves.
Sure, just a minute.Mark, you're wanted on the phone.
Hurry, the movie is coming back on.
I have no idea what kind of sandwich I want to make.
Absolutely, I love temple fairs. Beijing has several temple fairs recently. They are different from each other to some extent, but also have a lot in common.
You are crazy. Gambling is against my principles.
Right now we have a suite for 4 people, do you want to book it?
You can just go to work after you vote.
No. That's all, I guess.
What should I do then?
Kate, you know, I am thinking of getting a part-time job next year because I really need more money and I don't want to ask my parents for any more. But I'm so busy! How am I going to work and study? How do you do it? Do you have some good tips on budgeting time?
I'd better take the six thirty. It takes quite a while to get to the airport.
He makes me sick.
Excuse me, I'd like to have these pants I bought here yesterday altered. Here's my receipt.
Sure! Look, it suits you well.
Well, one of the most spectacular things about this one was the special effects. State of the art special effects are the main reason for the success of previous episodes, so audiences have high expectations for this one, and I don't think they will be disappointed.
Maybe you won't believe this, but it was made by my grandmother.
And I taught him how to swim in the sea. It was fun and made him braver than before. After we returned home, he wasn't afraid to sleep alone in his bedroom.
That sounds great. Give me a call next time you guys play.
I would like to live in Pasadena or Arcadia.
Look, Dad, many people are doing morning exercises here.
Yeah, it was a good Christmas. It won ’ t always be this good, but we can ’ t make it last longer than it should.
We can take it. Just a moment... Please sign here.
I'm happy to recommend the fish, It testes delicious, and it is today's special. Our chef is from the coast, and love seafood. Today special is actually his favorite dish. so I'm sure it is a
Hello, Deva, how are you?
Well, that's fine. So I don't think it necessary for us to make a reservation. We will be there at 9:30.
Is the traffic very heavy this hour?
When did you and Amanda meet each other?
How is your business on the Internet, Steven?
If you do have to drive, you should make sure that your car runs on unleaded petrol. Also, your home should use sources of renewable energy.
By that time, you will be fired.
You can do that. A private session lets two people talk alone. This techno-chat program lets you talk about anything with everybody, without prejudice because you can ’ t see them.
Men are like that you know.They can feel nervous, anxious or on edge and the only way they can express it is by trying to hide it through aggressiveness.
Have you got any identification?
I was thinking about it. Are you?
Did you give him a nose?
Usually, if the problem is insignificant I advise the customer to go ahead ; it's normally a translation problem or something like that. But this does seem a little more serious. I suggest you get back on to them right now and ask them about it. Hopefully you can sort it out over the phone.
Hey, the pool's open now!
So we should take the advantage of it.
I'll see you later then. Have a great day!
Right. Hold the steering wheel with your hands at ten o'clock and two o'clock.
This is she. Paul?
Good. I will see you then.
Well, I actually thumbed a lift.
IBA, how can I help?
You get really passionate about this, don't you? Alright. I'll watch it with you.
I've also brought some magazines for you. I hope they'll keep you from getting bored while you're in the hospital.
How can I get it, please?
Isn't that the chick flick with Kate Hudson and Owen Wilson?
How about As long as You Love Me! You can pretend you're singing it to your fiancee Brooke!
No problem. Actually, we have some great packages. The most exciting season of Hawaii is now. How about a relaxing vacation in Hawaii?
There are a lot of ways to help a kid build up self-esteem, but to begin with, you can try and give him more rewards. Rewards will help a chil improve his self-esteem.
That'll be fine for now, thank you.
What else do you see? Will I be successful? Will I make a lot of money?
Yeah, yeah, it was really interesting. You know, I'm in a bit of a hurry, but here ’ s my card. We should definitely meet up again and continue our discussion.
maybe he should really something about eating etiquette.
Good. I want to discuss with you the mode of payment for the construction of the power plant under negotiation.
Hello, could I make a reservation?
It is a very difficult climb, because there are not many places to put your hands and feet.
Look, here is a very special business card from an illustrator. Every time I go through my book of business cards, I will notice it. It is an eye-catching one.
Seven dollars and fifty cents in all.
How can I find out what countries to invest?
How can you tell the difference? From what I see, they look almost the same.
Let's bygones be bygones, start saving right now.
But she means a lot to me.
OK, no problem. To err is human.
Yes, I know. The problem is that I can't find it. Where did you put it?
Sure, turn left at the next crossing.
There you go! Daddy has told me that water ballet is also called Synchronized Swimming.
I could have stayed in bed for another half hour.
Sounds good. May I have a look?
Good stuff... Oh, no. The door is locked.
There aren't many clothes, is your load big?
You forgot it last year as well.
I love to brainstorm a best, worst, and most likely scenario.Then, I set a timetable that's realistic.What I usually find is that some combination of my schedule easily as these things unfold because I've already visualized what could happen and how I'd react.
I think you should work out more too.
Don't get drunk.
Yes, if I were hired, when would you like me to start?
Thank you. Is there a special rate for a group reservation?
I would like to have notice of that question, I will give you an answer in a week.
Peter.Peter Brown, you know.Don ' t forget to bring the letter.
I bought you some books on literature, I don't know if you would like them.
Would you like to be my guide?
But you are holding it for me. Nothing to worry about. I trust you. Oops, what's that?
Not much I can do. It's always there. I sometimes go out with some friends and drink, but that's only a temporary solution. The stress always returns in the morning.
It seems that a lot of wars nowadays are really civil wars. People from different ethnic groups in the same country sometimes fight for power in that country.
We will need detailed information regarding the full name of the company, the company address...
That's Ok. you know, digital devices are becoming smaller and easier to carry, and they won't cost you too much.
It's just nine o'clock.
now that I look back at it, it wawsn't that big a deal. I shouldn't have lost my temper.
Yes. The television is not working properly.
Yes, some friends play it all day, all night, and sometimes a whole weekend. I tried to read about some basic rules online, but it is hard to understand. So I went to watch people play yesterday only to find I was even more confused. I think I have to work hard on those rules and more learning by doing. Practice makes the master.
Sure, he's ready to be friendly with anyone.
Jack! Do you want to see a picture of my new puppy?
Did you check with reception at your hotel?
thank you very much.
she says that after several years of use, It’s not working properly. When she uses it, it makes a funny noise.
I ’ m terribly sorry about that. We could take it back and deliver a new one to you early next week. Would that suit you?
Hello. I sent out my laundry yesterday.Aren ' t they ready?
Yes. I just need to double check a few details with you.
Ok. I'll take it.Here ' s the money.
Be careful of yourself.
It’s at the corner of that street.
What's the matter, are the classes you want full?
He's with someone right now, would you hold?
You can wear more clothes.
No, I will call the attendants at the gate. I'll tell them you are on your way.
Can't you wait till you get home? then you can surf the internet using the broadband, wireless connection or whatever you like.
Very much. The birthday cake was delicious, wasn ’ t it? Emily told me that she and karen made it themselves.
Oh, certainly. I wouldn't miss a game for the world. My girlfriend says I have an addiction. And actually, if I had to choose between her and my games... I'd probably pick football.
You should have told me earlier. I am a cookie lover.
I got a replace my party outfit, I trashed it last week.
dumplings again?! Oh, Amy, let's try something new!
Did you call me?
I don't know what a bench warrant is.
First class or coach?
I would like to switch it to next Friday.
Excuse me, what's the price of a single room?
But he is always talking big.
I think I see what you mean. I can read Shakespeare but I definitely can ’ t write it.
Almost. There are a lot of polar animals sea birds, such as seals, whales and penguins, People don't get much chance of seeing them.
Yes, I do. I am the oldest child. I have a sister and a brother. My sister is in college and my brother in high school.
The cable should be running again in a couple of days.
I was not aware of that.
Master Li? Who's that?
Excuse me, waiter. I have just dropped the spoon onto the ground. Would you please bring me another one?
Yes, such as Christmas and Easter.
After all, she is a five-year-old kid.
Decent dressing and appearance, which contribute to a good first impression of the interviewer, are surely quite important.
No, not now. I have found a part-time job. So perhaps I can help my family to come over the difficulties.
Well It’s my first night in Beijing. What should I eat?
OK. It will make your stay more convenient.
Here's to you, Mary!
shall we bring our own bottle of wine to save some money?
Certainly. What time would you like us to call you?
no, but I've always wanted to do that. I've heard it's a beautiful place to go.
Sort of. I prepared a list of all the people who can vouch for my experience and good work ethic.
"Let's see. The label says it's got "" attractive citrus and grassy aromas that give way to crisp, mineral flavors and a bonedry finish. Serve chilled. "" Oh, no, how long will it take to chill the wine? I'm on my way to the dinner now."
Hi, David! What are you doing?
No sweat. It’s a piece of cake.
Good luck next time.
Hi, Vince. Thanks for stopping by. How's the work coming along for the online auction?
Oh! You took the guesswork right out of that one.
Yes, I had a look just now, I feel we can do a lot of business in this line.
No, it's not far. It's near our old house.
Listen, Carol. Don't let this bother you too much.Probably it's nothing. Just keep your eyes open when you go out.If you see him a third time, and if he follows you again, then I think we should go to the police.But for now, just try not to worry.
What's stopping you then?
We have fruit cake, cream cake and chestnut cake.
Yes, that's right. Your room is a single one with a bath.
OK. Do you have anything to declare?
Dad, what's the date?
Oh, I remember. It was about 10 o'clock. When I was about to go to bed, suddenly I heard help outside.
The reading on the kilometer is 12 $.
You're right.We don't know what is going to be like tomorrow.
Sorry. I didn't quite catch what you said.There ' s a lot of noise outside.
OK, Mom. Can I swim now? I want to learn butterfly stroke.
we do actually. We can add that as an amendment to your contract.
Alright. Next time, we can try some other flavors.
What did you do at the office today?
Yes, his IQ is high enough for him to embrace the success as long as he can manage his EQ.
OK. I'll have that.
Do you need anything else from me?
Of course. What do you want me to do?
He is in his office, but you'd better choose your words carefully while talking to him.
Oh, I see. But I think you are making a fuss. They will make it up. Bet it.
Where ’ s your polling place?
Thanks for your help!
Yes. She goes three times a week.
Well, he has a surprise waiting for him when he gets back, doesn't he!
You are interested in other people ’ s business, aren ’ t you?
I know, but she is going to miss you something awful. Have I told you how proud I am of you?
Find out what other companies charge for the same products or services. Price yourself near the low end. Don ’ t be much cheaper than everyone else, because many customers distrust very cheap things. They think that is must be poor quality if It’s that cheap.
Yes, I would like to book a table for six for the next Monday.
It will save you much time when you clear customs.
Wow, they were good. I guess criminals aren ’ t that dumb after all.
Yes, this way please.
Hey! I'm the tour guide. I'll take care of the Taiwanese guests.
My brother has last year's Accord.And his car is a kind of soft purple color mixed with silver. I really like that color. I wonder if I can get that color on my Accord.
I needed to talk to you about your son.
Can I see all of my test results at once?
For now, I would like to run a few more tests to look into some of the problems that you mentioned.
Why? I don ’ t have to leave the house or browse a dozen stores to find what I ’ m looking for. This way, I just search for it online quick and easy.
As you know I serve as a secretary in my present company, I really want to look for a more challenging opportunity.
Your summer clothes for white-collar and men's jackets.
Shall I punch out for you, Ross? I am leaving now.
I intend to invite him to dinner.
Certainly, I can take care of that for you. What time would you like the wake-up call?
I see. How do they make testing and analysis of this item?
There are so many Chinese people in Vancouver.
Are there any other forms that I need to fill out?
Of course I'm pale. It's just now the beginning of spring. I don't have my summer tan yet.
Thank you. Have a good one.
what's that?
Yes. I think it's time to move on. I ’ Ve already been here too long.
May I make a copy of your card?
It's about two days.
I will be done before they come.
Maybe later. I wanna take some photos first.
Lisa, are there family rules in this house?
Back to live with my parents.That ' s something else I used to do before we were married.Remember?
I am informed that many people used short messages to pay a New Year call, and only on the Spring Festival it amounted to 1 billion this year, didn't it?
Just a moment, please.
It's too bad that I couldn't make it. Who won?
Two months at most.
Tell me which building it's in.
What else can I help you with?
Make it quick.
That is the pump you are in front of.
Why wouldn't I want to know?
They weren ’ t supposed to arrest me.
I am used to editing with Word 2003, and there are many pictures in the book.
I think It’s great! I really like the color, and it goes really well with your eyes. I ’ Ve actually been eyeing that dress at Maxine ’ s for a while now, but I wasn ’ t sure I could afford ninety-five dollars for a dress at the moment.
That's a hard time. The air is cold and damp, and the road is often icy.
Yes, I like listening to Beethoven's works.
Still, there will be bank charges in connection with the credit. It would help me greatly if you would accept D / A or D / P. You can draw on me just as if there were a letter of credit. It makes no great difference to you, but it does to me.
That is the best part. Your hotel is actually an old country villa that has been restored and refurbished to accommodate a maximum of that is guests. You will enjoy an intimate and private time in this very spacious and warm N Included in the price is three meals a day, excluding beverages. You can choose to eat at the fabulous restaurant that offers a stunning view of the lush, green gardens. If you prefer, your own private butler can arrange your meal to be served in your room or outside on our terrace.
Sure. Our company is in Ericsson Tower, No. 12 Like East Street, Chaoyang District.
Mam, another minute, could I?
No, I can't. I'm left-handed.
Well, you're no gentleman, either.
How does the political system work in your country?
I used to have the same problem when I was with my ex.
I made a doctor's appointment for you.
Hello 。 this is Susan.
That ’ s all right. I ’ ll be right back.
Are you sure this is the right restaurant 。
I know, but it wasn ’ t my fault! I told Jennifer she had to drop me off before ten, but she wouldn ’ t leave the party!
I'm going to change into my trunks right now!
it is unusually warm. I blame it on global warming.
good afternoon. “ ginger ’ s restaurant ”. May I help you?
I teach mathematics at a college. What do you do?
No. It isn't. It's 423-6631.
That's terrible! So you didn't get any sleep?
First of all, as far as I know, your company has had impressive records in business. Second, I want to enter the foreign trade field.
Yes, I am applying for new health insurance, and I need a physical examination to qualify.
I have already known that. I didn't get the scholarship, right?
I don't mind. I'm not a light sleeper, but quieter is better for when we have to study at home.
The second one told me that the job information was released half a year ago, and had been overdue.
Good afternoon, Ladies. May I help you?
Yeah. Last time I saw you, it was like 2 years ago.
Then we can take a walk and enjoy the scenery in the park.
How about having a cup of tea with us?
I want to change my wake-up time.
Do you feel nauseous?
We surely believe you.
Yes, you could if it's kept intact. But don't you want to get a bigger size?
Was it leaking in the bedroom?
I don't know. The produce person can tell you, though.
I think I might just go to the movies.
What's your hobby?
I'm taking my date to a restaurant. Could you tell me about one or two good ones?
Yeah. It's of supreme importance that the goblet, table-cloth, and plates should be made shiningly clean, so that the color of the wine is clearly visible and the delicate aroma and taste are fully appreciable.
But I ’ Ve never been on a business trip before!
It reflects some of our difficulties in this ever-changing world.
John dates her seven times a week.
Twice cooked spicy pork slices.
Do you think it's that serious?
I can take two thousand off. That'll make the rent twenty-eight thousand.
Yes, I worked in a fashion shop as a part time salesgirl.
Fund info, the fund code, fund net value per unit, fund public info, fund account balance, fund trading conformation, daily details and the history. With our Net Banking, anything is possible!
sorry, Brad. But you are going to have to re-do this.
What do you have in the luggage?
I don't know why.
That sounds very good. How do you see your career development?
Excuse me, I ’ Ve been waiting here for fifteen minutes.Do you know why the traffic is so heavy?
We charge a small fee every time you overdraft.
Waiter, bring me the menu, will you?
Oh, sweet. You've always been my love too.
Well, maybe so. But I still think everyone has their rights of their own opinion.
Yes, my mother washed my clothes too.But when I was twelve, I started to wash clothes myself.
I took out a life insurance policy and made my wife the beneficiary.
Yes. I ’ ll have a room free next week.
Why hasn't the bus come yet? Every morning we have to wait for so long.
Are the sellers responsible for fixing the problems with the house?
Look at that village!
The problem is now on a truly global scale. I don ’ t believe that any single country can do anything about it.
I have to file a report at the police station.
All right. But what was the trouble?
Sounds good. I'll see you at 6. Do you want directions?
We are out at the moment. May I suggest some rye bread?
Egg, this bathroom is a pigsty!
I'm afraid it is still being washed.
I'm doing great, thank you.
I left it two months ago. I didn't think I could learn much there, and there were not many opportunities for self-development.
Hi, Mr. Zhang. What ’ s wrong? You don ’ t look so happy. How was your date?
What were you writing?
I have lived here for twenty years.
Do you think you can make yourself understood in English with ease?
The Notebook is this type of movie.
We have several hundred in stock.
Oh, come on, Ultraman!
Excuse me. What time does the next bus for Boston leave?
And I've never heard such good sound in a game.
What about laundry?
What kind of teaching certificate do you have?
I'm so happy. I don't have to worry about finding a job and interviewing anymore.
It’s not far. Go straight on then turn right at the end of the road.
Don't worry. You'll do fine.
What time dose it start?
I hear that the Students ' Union is going to take new members.
There are other things I need to take care of.
I can't believe it, I had faith in Bob and he let me down.
I am not blind. Anyone can see that with half an eye.
I had to look after my son at home.
Please wait till your name is called. OK. Your bill includes the doctor's fee and the cost for a 3 - day supply of medicine. It comes to one hundred yuan.
So tell me the final score.
Please, call me Ted.
Very big and exciting, but very crowded, too.
What else would you like to add? We highly recommend caterpillar fungus.
Well, it's just that she put a lot of makeup on her face. Actually, natural beauty comes from within.
Here is his passport.Thank you very much.
Now that I think of it, three days is better than seven.
Yeah, I got home around two.
I can't wash at home because my machine is broken.
Thank you, you helped me a lot.
Posters are difficult to travel with. I think I'll just buy the postcards. I heard that you might also have some of the masks that are made in Venice.
Correct! I have three-day visit to Shanghai on December 10th.
Happy birthday, Ann. Many happy returns of the day! Here is a present for you.
Yeah, I remember the neighborhood. Have you found a place yet?
it wasn't cold out this morning.
OK, Tom. It's your turn. Are you ready?
It is very common in the winter in Ottawa.
OK. Thank you for your help. That's very nice of you.
Good afternoon, Mrs. Brown. I've come to see Mr. Brown.
Tell me something about yourself and your past.
Oh, you can't think like that. We young people should try our best to learn new things and accept new ideas. You like taking photos and going to photography shows, why not practise the technique and catch something unforgeable?
The subway? But is there a subway station next to my hotel? I have to go between the conference center and the hotel several times a day...
Great! Where is it?
Yeah he is going to be there with his step-son and his ex-wife.
But why do so many people live there?
I have no experience but I ’ m interested in it.
Eat less and exercise more. Do not eat too much sweet food.
OK, sir, wait a minute.
Are you even listening? I ’ m trying to have a conversation with you.
Who has been here already this morning?
Don't take it too hard. There are some tips you should know in job-hunting of 2010.
Do I have to remind you that your grandma is arriving tonight?
I think it's something that I'll have to consider. The public transport system is pretty good.
I found an apartment to rent.
No problem. Who is it? Anyone I know?
Yes, please. Have you any vacancies for tonight?
What's wrong, Julia?
I've been so tired recently. I've been trying, but I don't think I'm up to this job.
Oh, and it's out of paper. Do you have any more?
OK. Good night, then. Have a good sleep.
Yes. And I would like to convey my thanks to you for your help during my stay here in Nanjing.
I can play drums, but I haven ’ t played for a while. I ’ m not sure I ’ d be good enough to play in a band.
I heard the radio announcer say it was 18 degrees below zero.
Sure thing, Johnny. Watch out for dishpan hands there, kid!
Wow. That's wonderful.
I think this man is going to be the next President.
Will you fill out this form, please? The bellboy will show you up to your room. Your luggage will be brought right up.
Forgive you for what?
Thank you for all the help.
So cool! Can I get a load of it?
The food there is pretty good.
Is she your teacher?
I wish I could play a musical instrument. I love music.
Could you book it for me?
They're beautiful. Taylor, you're so pale and skinny!
There are several good clubs near the city centre. Many people in my city prefer something more cultural, so we several theatres and venues for classical music concerts and operas.
Yes, It has. It went off 30 minutes ago.
By the way, Richard will assist me in the planning work. I hope you can work well together.
Oh, no, it won't. Just stand there, please.
Fine, here it is and have a great semester!
Man, that's amazing. It must have cost a bundle.
really? What do the companies do that for?
Looks nice. Okay, I'll take it.
Why didn ’ t you call me last night?
By the way, can you tell me where I can find a restaurant not?
Excuse me, but I ’ m a bit lost here. Where does this street lead to?
Yes, I want to book a plane ticket from Beijing to Shanghai.
That's a lot of work.
I'm OK. How are you doing?
Thank you very much, Mr. Smith. I am very happy that I ’ ll be a member of your team. May I see the agreement first?
Hello, yes, I'm a stock investor and I'm looking at opening a new account with you. Perhaps your new compound savings one? I already have a Current Account with you.
Donations for what?
I am sorry.Flight LJ88 0n that day is full. What about 22?
Well, gentleman.Each room is $ 40 a week if you think that's OK.
I've typed the report.
what do you think? How does it taste?
I see. Here ’ s a pamphlet about our home insurance policy. We ’ Ve named our policy ” umbrella ”. May I ask how much you paid for your home and where you live? These are the two main thing that decide how much your premiums are.
But it's already awfully close.
That's great ; I can give an extra key to my wife. I feel perfectly comfortable with her having a key. Thanks for your help.
It's our pleasure. And is there anything else we can do for you before you leave here?
I definitely want to meet with you, Mr. Parker. I just need to sort out my schedule.
Yeah, go ahead, forks, spoons and knives. I roasted some meat so be sure to put out some steak knives as well.
Maybe, there was a subway accident.
It’s traditional Chinese Medicine. I mix it with hot water like tea. Sorry. I forgot about it.
16 divided by 2 equals 8.
But that ’ s the quickest way to make your plans work.
I've reserved rooms 402 and 403 for you.
Yes, you're right. We have to equip our company with a network of workstations at every office as soon as possible.
Thank you, ma'am. Would you like to use it until May 20th?
This section of the store is called Junior. Why is that?
Do you think I'll forget to do it?
Of course not. But it's a good habit to put it on every time you drive.
I don't think so. Michael.
I ’ m going back to college.
Then you go out to the garage and check out the camping gear.
Not yet. I ’ ll cook dinner and have it ready by the time you get here.
Yes. I have been a data entry operator for three years.
Yes, I'd like to buy these razors.
What would you like to have for your appetizer, sir?
Could you please tell me your passport number?
I'm really into watching foreign films. what about you?
You look like a basket case.
Ok, and anything to drink? Maybe some jasmine tea?
Hang up and I'll call you back in a few minutes.
Hello! My name is Sandals, I have a reservation.
For suspicion of driving under influence.
I understand we will need seven air conditioning units on the two floors.That ' s what you think, yes?
For killing time and making new friends.
Well, when he sobered up, he called someone from work to come and bail him out.
Your prices seem a little high.
No way! They want publicity for themselves, so that they get invited to make more films, go to lots of cocktail parties, and even make albums! They have such an easy life. They don ’ t even pay for drinks when they go to a cocktail party.
I'm glad to hear it.
free coffee is one of the perks at this place, isn't it?
Do you have a table for four, please?
Come on in, please.
Please put one under your tongue, do not swallow it.
Ok, fine. We need to take down the tree.
My laptop is on my bed. If you think It’s so easy then get on line and try to beat me.
It's four o'clock already. I hate to leave, but I think I must.
Ok, let ’ s go through this one more time. I don ’ t want anymore ruined or dyed blouses!
Let me see. Ah, yes, I've been to England, France, Germany, Italy and now I've been in Spain
I have a rash that I need a doctor to look at.
Well, my whole family is in the United States now, but we're from Costa Rica originally.
Yeah, sounds like something I should definitely do.
I would've never known.
In a word, any impolite behavior should be avoided in the listening.
Hi, sir. Could you tell me where the Hilton Hotel is?
I ’ m buying for chain department stores in Canada. They are also interested in Egyptian carpets. Could you introduce me to the person in charge of this line?
Dad, can you buy a new camera? My old one has gone west.
You seemed to be dull at that time.
Good choice! Our ground beef is extra lean, if you know what I mean.
I hate working out.
It's a bit too large. Would you please shorten the sleeves?
Pretty good. Where are you going?
You ’ re probably right. What do you think about Yangshao?
Well, actually I want to tell you that I've put in notice.
If it makes you feel any better, other guests feel the same way.
Guess who I saw yesterday?
I want to pick up my valuables.
After that, we will have a picnic.
Fine. Do you want your windshield cleaned?
You can ’ t go any lower than that?
It sounds good, and how about its quality? We only look for the best.
Then make an appointment by telephone and wait for the interview.
Hello, Ms Li, this is Mr Peng.
Hmm... well, maybe we can buy this one then.
Good afternoon Miss, would you be interested in buying more life insurance? You know, you can never get enough.
Hey man, what do you have on tap?
Have you ever shopped at Whole Foods market?
Sure. What is it?
Am I too abrupt? Did I scare you? Or you don't want...
Is there something any need?
Does it make a difference?
Ah yes, I remember now.
Do you know why I pulled you over?
Is there something I can help you with?
well, women are the ones giving birth. I think It’s fair to give them more time, don ’ t you?
You're welcome. Maybe next time we'll come to see you.
Fine, we will take an actual look at your kitchen before start working on it.
No, but the nurse at school says that I should have my blood pressure checked.
It’s nice to go home earlier once in a while. But It’s the evening rush.
How do you like this grey one? It’s pure wool, one hundred percent of Xinjiang wool.
great! Oh, one more thing, don't forget to check the weather before we go. I'd hate to get caught in the rain.
Can you tell me something about yoga?
The view is breathtaking.
Tad, I'm pretty hungry right now. Want to walk over and check out the food table?
That's OK. Is anything else recommended?
I wrote a check for $ 100 and it bounced.
Well, you should be sorry! Don ’ t ever use my computer again! You can ’ t do anything now, It’s too late!
No, I'm just going to let you go.
I'm here to conduct the annual census of foreigners living in Beijing. This is my service ID card.
No, I don't think so. I think the Internet would be better.
Sure. May I see your receipt?
Very good. Perhaps you'd like something else to go with the roses?
I think John is the best player on the field.
It's ironic that the meeting was anything but efficient.
Where did you go?
Yes. She lives on the next block.
No, we haven't taken such a course, but we have taken a more specialized course for decision making, by the name of Forecasting and Decision-Making.
I'm sorry. He is holding a meeting until ten o'clock.
Have you discussed it with your wife?
So, you want it delivered the day after tomorrow?
We parted from each other last month.
I really liked it!
Oh. I don't think I can afford that. How about this one?
Sure, great effect.My weight has dropped from 150 pounds to 120.
Well, it was in the Balkans during the war. He was only held for three days, and then they simply released him. It was a case of mistaken identity, and they just let him go when they found out he was no use to them. It was lucky they didn't kill him.
I'm too careless.
We've prepared name cards to be put on the conference table for guests to sit by. What time would you like refreshments served, Mr. Miller?
So you're quite happy with your new job?
Fine. I happen to have 20 days for holiday, so exciting! How many places will be visited and what are they? Where will be staying and how about the food there?
Can you name some courses you completed?
Yes, I need to apply for a parking permit.
I certainly am. What can I do for you?
Hello, this is Liu Juan speaking. Is that Mr. Brown?
No, not at all.The examples he gives are very interesting.
Like what? I think that by doing something like that we would be isolating our children from social interaction.
I ’ ll also set some cups and saucers for some coffee after dinner.
What was your impression of her when you saw her in person?
No, this is my first.Last week I went to a cookout for new professors at Dean Barksdale ’ s home. I took a taxi because I didn ’ t want to be late.But I was the first one
Why should I go against her? She always seems to have better ideas.
I hear many people here speak French.
I know, fresh fruit flavored is the best ever.
I remembered there is a very busy street several miles away. I waited for the traffic light for a very long time.
What is the score?
Yes, we've invited four other couples, so it should be a good mix of people.
I also feel that work efficiency here is very high. and you have strong working ability and professional skill, it seems that you know all, that's really wonderful!
Yes, certainly, you have the receipt?
I'm quite out of thoughts recently.
It's a suitcase. Its colour is blue.
Sure. What's it, Yvonne?
Will you need all of them right away or can some wait?
There is about a 15 - minute wait.
Would you care for a drink before you order?
Yes. I sent in my resume at the end of last week. I'm applying for the accounts assistant position.
What's another Japanese art?
You're getting that hot stuff in my mild broth!
Then please give me a cup of coffee.
Western and horror are the two types of movies I don't care for.
Do you think you'll be able to come in tomorrow? Or should I call off your appointments for tomorrow too?
Not a lot. What about you?
Actually, it's the dish recommended by this restaurant specially.
why does that cop car behind me have its red lights on?
Don't touch it with your stick. It's a bumble bees ' hive. Get down the ladder. Be quick.
Do you buy that newspaper every day?
oh, that sounds like fun!
What are your plans if you were hired?
I got it last week.
I don't know much about him. He died when I was just a baby. Even though I don't have a blood relationship with my step-father and step-brother, I consider them to be my real family.
We have a double room for you with a nice view of the park. Would that be OK?
I guess we'll either make it, or we won't.
No, it sounds wrong. He was born in the 16th century.
What is my prime responsibility in daily work?
I was looking for a book, but I couldn ’ t find it.
Why don ’ t you introduce him? I wonder if we will become good friends.
Well, I can try, what do you need?
Oh, I know what you mean. I'm addicted to that game.
What kind of account do you prefer? Checking account or savings account?
Has this problem been going on for a long time?
I take it tomorrow morning. There is so much material that I dont know what to emphasize on. What types of questions did you get?
I ’ d like to buy a woolen vest for my grandpa.
All right. See you then.
Let ’ s try to get out of the supermarket quickly.
Yes.Let ' s hold a birthday party for him, shall we?
Are you ready to go to the mall?
That's nice and easy. Thanks for your time.
We ’ re going to the Dragon Boat Festival tomorrow. Feel like coming along?
It says a storm may come tomorrow.
Later we'll let you know who the King and Queen of the Reunion will be.
Excuse me, sir, the toilet in my room doesn't flush.
I can see people who are walking on the sidewalk. I can see cars driving on the streets. I can see the sun shining and beautiful flowers dancing in the wind. I can even smell the scent of flowers and the freshness of the air.
The ad says the rent would be 840 dollars per month. Is it true?
I am afraid I can't be there on time.
Yes, we did. Fortunately we put his Teddy Bear in the bag, and finally he fell asleep at mid-night with it in his arms.
Yes, here you are. Would you care to order now, Sir?
We are thinking of a two days ' tour to Vienna.
OK, I promise. What is it?
Yes, I'd like to change Australian dollars for RIB.
You can learn Chinese checkers or military chess. Both of them are much easier.
Well, I'm looking for some winter clothes. And I notice you have pre-season sale on all your winter apparel.
I have no other questions. Thank you.
I understand your position, and I know that the current economic downturn has had a negative impact on sales, but you must also take into consideration my hard work, pro-activeness and loyalty to this company for over a decade.
to be honest, no. I'm always in search of new music to listen to.
You ’ Ve put it among these journals.
Get in, please.
But, you two are on a break. Theoretically he can do whatever he likes.
All right. Say cheese!
My wife, my daughter and I.
OK. See you then.
The green party have no chance of winning an election. The other parties are too big and popular.
Don't be silly, forget about it.
You need to apply for a passport.
I swear, the overhead compartments on these planes just keep getting smaller and smaller!
Now does everyone understand the diagram on the board?
You can get killed. No kidding. Remember, never stir up a hive.
I guess we could also put out a few advertisements for our website inside of the search engine. I would like to find the most effective way to let people know about our site and our products.
How much do they cost?
No, I don't drink.
Wow! That's interesting! It must be tough!
I left a suitcase on the train to London the other day.
Yes, so do I. they have wines from all over the world. There is a good range of prices to suit every pocket. We ordered some Australian red wine, which tasted delicious and wasn ’ t expensive.
Why don't you visit the Great Wall first?
I ’ m very well, Thank you. And you?
We do not want to place ourselves in an inferior position. We are a good, small company---that's why you are interested.
I have confidence in you. Believe in yourself.
Tell me when you want me to teach you.
Why don't you wear purple eye shadow for a change? We also have lipstick to go with it.
I love that dish as well. It is coconut chicken with rice.
Did the camera take a picture of your license plate?
The permanent staff can have a paid month-long vacation every year. Besides, they also get chances of free traveling.
We waited until our one-year anniversary to go on our honeymoon to Africa.
It's too raw. I wanted mine well done, but this one here is almost medium.
Well, the best thing to do is to go down to the front desk and ask for a duplicate key.
You ’ re kidding me!
Tuna sounds good today.
But watch this... it bends upwards, just like Dilbert's tie. There's a wire inside.
Of course not. My school record was above average in my class.
Probably two days. My wife will join me tomorrow. Then we will decide when to leave for Seattle.
Yes, may I know your name?
I'm Steven, your neighbour.
Good morning. Sanyu Restaurant. May I help you?
Oh, no. It was easy. Your office sent me a map.
Good afternoon, sir. Have you made a reservation?
Do you have to leave soon?
That ’ s what I understand.
Now we arrive at the Cambridge University, it is one of the oldest universities in the world.
It's no use complaining.If we had got enough money, we wouldn't put up with it!
You're right, no problems. You are becoming quite the expert, Mr Lawson. If any problem does turn up, which I'm sure it won't, I'll give you a call.
Come over and chew the fat. We can enjoy to our hearts'content.
Is that you, Janice? Just speaking.
We are planning to go to Beidaihe for vacation. Do you want to go with us?
Are you serious?
My pleasure. Take care and have a nice trip.
Probably not. Some medicine we need is ethical drug which you can't buy without a prescription.
Yes, I would love to work on a special project!
You have to bring me an add sheet to sign. Do you have one?
Of course not. Your daughter is smart and very well behaved.
She is really pretty, isn't she? Her skin looks so baby-smooth!
You're not going to make anything to eat?
I agree. The dew is still on the grass.
Yes and no... We can't ask for a show of hands on who thinks he should be fired, but we can introduce a vote of no confidence at the next board meeting.
Firstly, we'd like to discuss a discounted price. If you can give us a discount of 7 % on the high volumes orders, we can pay in 60 days.
It’s on sale this week.
Yeah, but you guys don't stay with the same classmates all day, right?
is she alright?
I like the colour very much. It's a lovely dress, but it's too small for me.
You should save some money on parking here.
Yes, but Americans never visit without calling in advance, and they almost never stay overnight.
Can I have some cookies first, please?
Can you tell me how to reach the bank please?
Well, their inventors were not as clever as Bill Gates.
How about a round trip? Could you offer us something more?
Are you crying?
S :: What size prints would you like?
Excuse me, I'd like to send this parcel.
We are here, bus station, we are in the heart of the city.
Fine, do you know where my office is?
I'd like to. It's a cell phone, camera, PAD and mp3 player all in one.
To be honest, I have never been to an Asian country before but I have visited many countries in Europe.
It's been my pleasure to help you.
Well, all right. There are four points you should keep in mind when you file documents, information and other things.
They ' Ve just renovated the place. You may be surprised.
Hi, Jim. How are you? I haven't seen you for a while.
Not really. His wife was able to find a good job as an interpreter, because she could speak French and German fluently. After a few months ' work, she had a better job than her husband. So in the end ,
Thank you. I'm through with one steamed bread and I'd like a second helping.
The waitress is bringing the bill right now.
I am sorry the larger ones are out of stock now. But you might be lucky at our Branch.
Which Sons do you want to go to?
about two weeks ago.
Next Saturday? I ’ m sorry. I ’ Ve promised to go to a Chinese Opera with my daughter.
Perhaps I could talk to your manager?
Yes. She is Sarah's step-mother.
Well, my pants are very slimming. They're capris.
Are you enjoying your trip to New Orleans?
Oh, about two years now.
I can ’ t pay much more than that.
Okay... what makes you say that? I thought you were pleased with his overall performance. Didn ’ t you just tell me last week how impressed you were with his attitude?
If one is rich, is the happy?
I like No. 4.
Stay just a few minutes longer, OK?
I'd like to stay here for all my life if possible.
First, you need to get on the 268 going west.
Yes, I do. I also use an anti-spyware program and a firewall. There are so many nasties on the internet and so many people who are trying to use the internet to hurt other users. You have to be very careful and keep you computer clean.
brown, huh? Isn't that a bit dull?
Some time next year. We haven't set the date yet.
It must be Kate.
Yes, it's my new business phone. Do you like it?
My wife is sick, so I have to cancel a reservation I made.
I've finished up all my water. I would kill for a sip of water.
How much did you write the check for?
But we'll be careful.
OK, I can have it ready tomorrow afternoon, but this suit is also very stained. I can ’ t guarantee we can remove it completely.
You're absolutely right. The acting could be better.
OK, let's do the calculation.
Good morning, can I help you?
just walk down this road and you'll find it. it's on the right side.
Would you like to see a movie with me and my friend?
What does MM / DD / YY mean?
How much again?
Grannie always tries to stay fit and healthy. She is always making us kids eat the proper foods.
I have no idea. Could you recommend some to me?
No, I mean it. Look, are you hungry? Shall we go get something to eat?
And don't forget to put in an order for your reunion memory book.
No one has ever checked me for allergies.
I hope to visit Japan next year.
Sure. If you get on this road and turn left at the second intersection, you'll see it on your right-hand side.
That's true, but it must not be allowed to stand long.
Well. It's not all my fault, Anna. You are responsible, too.
Yes, it's me. And you're Julie Ashley. How are you?
I'm still feeling a little sick.
B, your main duty is to answer phone calls and transfer files to the person who wants them. Is that difficult?
I didn't realize it was so difficult though I know I'm always too nervous in such competition.
I was sitting there giving out nametags and all of a sudden, there she was.
Give me a short haircut.
Hi, is this Professor Clark ’ s office?
Yeah, why don ’ t you do that, and then you can give me a call sometime next week.
So now you can say you had a mafia experience. Ha-ha.
Good afternoon. Reservations. May I help you?
We want what we call a clean sample. Urinate a drop or so into the toilet, and then stop the flow and urinate into the cup.
We're having a clearance sale. $ 4 plus tax.
Oh, my God! It’s my stomach. It’s killing me!
I don't think so, Maria, but I think you can look for information on the Internet.
What? Are you serious?
Yes, we have many kinds of pies and puddings.
Any karks on his face?
oh, there is a supermarket not far from here. But there is also a tea house around the corner, where you can get tea and a tea set as well.
Because orange is much more to my taste.
I am happy that the wine I brought for you works well with this meal.
Sure thing. Might there by anything else?
That's no use.This is morning rush hour.
Their appointment is at eleven o'clock in the morning.
If they're not connected right, that will keep it from turning on.
it's the newest 10 speed cycling mountain bike. These are really expensive!
He didn't even make it out the door.
Well, we have agreed on all the major points.
Look, I want to succeed just as much as you do. Well, maybe not quite that much.
I'm not completely sure if it really does.
That sounds good. How much is one?
Should we tip? This service is pretty good.
Do it, please.
That's all right.We ' ll get used to it.Besides, it is quiet up there.
I am calling to ask the position of HR manager. Could you tell me more about it?
See you later, alligator.
Do I still have to pay for the cable?
Good morning, I have an appointment with Mr. Wang Li.
No. I need a double and three triples. My family is waiting for me in the car.
Cool! A whole month! What do you do during that month?
Wonderful, does anyone have any questions about this project?
You're welcome. We'll see you on the 25th, Ms White.
I don't have my homework today.
It's in the eyes. They're the type that seems to look into your soul, making one really uneasy.
No problem, of course! How much would you like to spend to impress the lady?
I bought a pair of trousers last year, which I like the best. But this year they don ’ t fit me very well. They ’ re tight in the waist, baggy at the knees. Can you make some alterations?
I ' m taking some measurements for new curtains.
I'm sure we will. Actually, we are looking forward to seeing the great wonder.
I am afraid so. I am terribly sorry!
Well. Let me talk to the manager for a moment.Ma ' am, the manager says I can do it this time.
Yes, you're lucky. But you should go to the Ultrasonic Department to disperse the stone. Meanwhile, I'll give you some herbal medicine.
Well, Administrative assistant with shorthand and typing skills are badly needed here.
Then go to bed and have a good sleep.
Great! Do you think you have a chance at getting the job?
Excuse me, Bill?
That's Susan.
For an outside call you now just dial the number. For a company number you need to know the extension. Do you have a list of extensions?
I work at Yangshi Trade Company Ltd. I have been working there since 1997.
Listen, Annie. You shouldn't worry about Mr. Drummond.He is a very good man to work for. He is not sexist at all.He appreciates people for their ideas.And he is willing to take suggestions from men or women.
It will do you good to go out for entertainment at weekends.What kind of movie do you like best?
First we have the airline tickets, which are $ 500 per person ; with four of us going, that's t $ 2,000. For our accommodations, we're spending $ 80 a night, per room, for five days. That's another $ 800.
Certainly, sir. Double or single breasted?
Well then, where do I get it?
It's R, O, S, E, D, A, L, E.
No, I didn ’ t. I started working at a university in London but as time went by, I found I did not really like my job. I decided to explore other fields. Journalism is great fit for me as well as a challenge.
Thank you. Will you be paying in cash or by credit card?
I can, but I'm not going to. You don't need medicine. You need advice. Don't work so hard. Too much work is bad for you. Don't worry about your work.It ' s silly to worry. Take regular exercise.
Have you tried the Internet?
Our reservation is under the name of Foster at 7:00 for four people.
Credit Services, how can I help you?
If you don't know it by now, you might as well not bother studying.
I washed my car instead.
Hello, Mr.Benson, welcome to Beijing! Is this your first time to visit china?
That should be loads of fun.
I'm afraid it gains a little.
Fair-Priced Fares, how may I help you?
So the life of a cave woman was less stressful than my life?
That ’ s it. I think we ’ re one block beyond.
I don't understand why you would do that.
If one of them forgot a camera in a restaurant, would you let the tourist bus go back?
Leave your phone number, and I will give you a call if the price gets reduced.
sure, it's the ad circled with a red pen in the middle of the classifieds. Good luck!
Ah, yes, that's right.
Ma'am, these are complimentary with each purchase. How about that one below the toys? This is the best seller. They are of the latest model that can be found in town.
But on our part, our government is reluctant to approve of L / C payment for our imports. And there is the licensing problem.
' The sound of music '. This music is known by everybody and is suitable for all ages. It is about a happy family without sex, violence or bad language.
Sit down. I'll show you the list of our financial budget. First of all, it is nearly 4,000 RIB that we should spend in transportation.
Can you come to my office this afternoon at 3 o ’ clock?
I heard the film was after the novel The Godfather.
No, I haven't had a chance to take the exam as I have just arrived here.
Yes, it's been marvelous. It really was very kind of you to invite me. I hope it hasn't been too much trouble.
Well, I've never been to either so I was thinking of going to Disneyworld for my honeymoon.
Thank you for inviting me, but I think I'll pass.
Pls fill it up with water then.
If you want I'll let him know if I run into him.
That would be wonderful. Thanks!
There are lots of new teachers in our class this semester.
I would like to have different carpet.
I ’ Ve been to most of the countries in Europe, several countries in asia, china, Japan, korea, and Thailand, and to the united states and Canada.
Are you kidding?
Here is our price list, our terms are cash within three months of date of delivery, if you can pay it within one month. we'll give you a discount of 10 %.
I appreciate the referral, doctor.
Thanks. It's a lot better than mine, and it's new.
absolutely. Believe it or not, I found my cat by a garbage can around my neighborhood two years ago.
How do you do? Nice to meet you, Diane.
Sounds great! How many kinds of folk collections do they have?
All right, please take this message and call this client.
That's putting it mildly. My father started shouting at my sister and my mother just glared at her.
yeah, but I ’ m not there for fun. I have to remain professional and if I get distracted, the manager would be pretty upset.
Is this the first time you've come to our city, Mr. Ross?
Great. I will prepare some clothes and food for the climbing.
Hold on for a moment. ( a few minutes later ) I have cancelled your reservation.Shall I make another one for you?
It leaves at 9:30 a. m..
Please forgive me for rushing into your room forgetting to knock at the door.
Besides, don't make it too loose.
Ah, well then I ’ d recommend a nice entry-level digital SLR.
Tell me, Mr. Han. What do you suggest if we establish long term business relations?
You need a babysitter.
to be honest with you, Jason, I don't think I'm doing a very good job of balancing my schoolwork with my job. I'm always two steps behind. I've got to get back to the dorm and continue writing tha
Ok, I am terribly sorry for the trouble you are getting into.We will contact you first thing, once we know the reason.
But of course! How much are you thinking of spending on dinner?
Not anymore. Now I work nine hours a day, and I get a good sleep almost every night. No more burning the candle at both ends.
Alright, so I'll see you then?
Good morning! What's wrong with you?
Certainly. What about moon cake? It's typical Chinese food.
I see. I'd like to live here for about three years.
That's all right. Have a good day.
Sure, but you really did great and outperformed the others. You deserved it!
He's on holiday for the week, I'm afraid. Can I help?
Definitely. I need to have enough time to have a rest on this weekend. We worked like bees in the whole working days.
I think you should give them some credit. They ’ re very talented people and they deserve all the money they earn. They even donate money to charity to help people who are less fortunate than themselves
Oh, shut up.She ' s already got married.
I have my Tennis Club card. Is that good enough?
The music has started.
You've come to the right place.We ' Ve got the best shoes in town.
That's $ 1 825.
The guys I've talked to say that the activities that go on in a frat house can be a little distracting depending on the group.
Really? Can ’ t you stay a little longer?
I'm working on Saturday mornings this month.Are you getting up?
Sure, where would you like to go?
Oh, that's exciting. What does this guy look like? Is he hot?
I want my hair cut.
Do you mind if I sit here?
I wonder how long this weather can last.
Come on, sit down, and let me have a look.
After the meeting she should type the minutes up, and then keep proper records of the business transacted and the resolutions passed and also implement many of the decision reached at the meeting.
Hi, Mike. I am going to move on the first of next month.
I'm from Kathmandu. What about you?
What vehicle do you usually bring to school? Is it an automobile or a motorbike?
I will send someone out to take a look at the problem. Will you be home this afternoon?
that's why we want to have a look at other hotels. We don ’ t want to spend too much on an extravagant wedding reception.
I don't know. I am not really worried about that. I don't wanna lose before even starting. Besides I think the other two American guys have also fallen for her.
What exactly are mangoes?
Who knows! That might come to later.
Two or three days now.
Well, I used to hate cooking, but now I love it.
There's no need, I have keyless entry, and the steering wheel recognizes my finger prints before starting the car. Now, we can look at the navigation system to find the best route home.
Here's your change.
Sorry, $ 14 is the lowest I can go.
So you mean that you were the only brave one there?
Which number is he?
OK, sir, yours will be ready in a few seconds.
Yes, my name is Peter. I have made a reservation for a single room from June 18th to June 21st. I'd like to make some changes. The reservation should only be to June 20th.
That's everything.
It also means that people sometimes fight over the farmland that remains. Damaging the environment actually leads to conflict between people.
I'm sorry, but he's not in, he's gone out on business.
So I am.
I can't believe the weather is so gorgeous for your wedding.
Thank you. Welcome to our hotel again.
Oh, I see. How much it the service charge?
You're right. Life isn't always like the movies.
Mary, it seems that your family and friends have been calling you recently, am I right?
Good, I can see the library on the map.
Look out, honey. Let's come to the shoal waters. Follow me!
Let me get a hamburger.
Could I have a look at it, please?
Fastback Travel. How can I help you?
I had nothing to do with the crime that was committed.
Yes, I'd like to settle my bill.
I went out with my girlfriend to a nice restaurant last night and I noticed that many people shouted for the bill.
haven't been sleeping well recently.
you have to be realistic. Not everyone is going to agree with you, but people will respect your opinion and they will respect the fact that you have contributed something to the discussion.
Look! This stock is rising now. I am researching it, and planning to buy some shares.
How were you getting along with your studies?
No. Please sit down.
I dislike it most.
Excuse me, sir. This air compressor doesn't work.
Excellent. Well, what other questions do you have Rebecca?
No, he doesn't. But his wife found out he has been too charming for a long time.Incredibly, he has many different girlfriends. Starting almost right after they married 20 years ago.
Bruh, that artists was on point.
Moreover, it's easy to clean, right? You are really lazy.
I'm fine. How about yourself?
And he's so handsome.
Another big step forward in saving on our office equipment, I don ’ t need a desktop anymore. A laptop is enough.
And the total ratio of return on assets should not be lower than the average, for that particular industry, for the first two quarters of the year.
Yes. I am looking for a pair of gloves.
It's a bit. But I can give you a discount.
Oh, no, I ’ m student at a university, and I have to study most of the time. I can only work part time.
I didn't even think about that.
Wow, it all looks so good. I ’ m not sure what to choose.
It is allowed to carry 55 pounds for each passenger.
He ’ s really good looking. he ’ s quite tall, around 61, he ’ s in his early thirties, and he ’ s got the most beautiful dark brown eyes...
Oh, certainly. I'm Linda, the Manager. I can help you with that. How many will there be in your party?
I wonder if Mr. Smith forgot your meeting. I am afraid he left this office this morning and is not expected back until after 4 pm. Let me find out if he made arrangements for someone else to meet with you in his place. Will you please have a seat?
Do you know which one he would like?
We design and assemble a wide range of electric generators for hospitals, hotels anc small factories. We specialise in medium-sized generators but we're hoping to diversify into larger models next year.
It really hurts.
There is a three-day package tour. You will have 3 full days in the cities. It is a general tour of the cities. The itinerary includes the places of interest such as Window of the World, China Folk Culture Village. Chen Clan Academy, Southern Yue Tomb, and Gongbei Market.
Is it on this floor?
Oh, no. None of that.
Book it for me, please. How much should I pay?
Football. It's a very exciting game, because it keeps you alert, and I also enjoying the team spirit of football.
I wish I could, but I'm busy. I'm going to work at a soup kitchen tonight.
Wake up, Erik, time to rise and shine.
Yes, you do.
No, thanks a lot. I'll try it myself.
All right, then.There is one at the new concert hall.
I think so.Could I have you name, telephone number? If we get one, I will call you.
Hello, have a seat. I ’ m Bill Gotcha. I am assuming you found your way here with no trouble?
To be completely honest, you failed your test.
Yes, certainly. Here you are.
Um — I was just thinking aloud.
What time are you going to clean it up?
Sure, I'd love to. Thank you.
I won ’ t be needing anything else.
And don ’ t ever forget it.
All you have to do is cook some white rice.
They would also like to have a meeting with our designers. And this time, their visit to our company will lay the basement for our cooperation, so you need to pay more attention.
Doctor, may I ask my mother ’ s condition?
That's quite all right.
you have to give them credit, though. It's about time people started becoming more aware of the dangers of smoking.
En, it's so beautiful that I don't want to move my eyes from it.
It all depends on what you want to accomplish in your life.
Anything's all right with me. I'm not particular about soups.
isn't it wonderful walking here?
Fine! Do you want anything to eat now?
That's true, I guess. If I didn't have to work, I think I would be happy.
I certainly hope so, I am about to stop doing business with your office.
What degree do you have now? :
One thousand dollars.
Many American furthers joke that they would rather hold the ladder for their daughter to climb down and elope than pay for a wedding.
Well, I didn't think so at first. But as we started talking, I found him extremely funny and witty. I couldn't stop laughing at his jokes! And we have so much in common. We like the same team, music, and most amazingly, we both love Chinese food! I have the feeling that we are going to be great friends.
Excuse me, sir, may I talk to you?
No, thanks. That will be all.
Sure. What time?
OK. I know. Thank you.
I've read your report, and I'm not sure I agree with you.You think you can get attendance improved by requiring salaried employees to take their all of their sick days?
Pardon me, but I was wondering if you could break a one.
Really going to miss you.
We could face delays if we travel by bus, thanks to traffic jams.
Yeah. Here ’ s my list. I ’ m not sure if the class schedule will allow me to take all of them though.
Thank you. Mr. Smith. What ’ s your telephone number?
I'd like to put some valuables inside, you know, documents and jewellery, things like that.
To be reliable is the strong point of our products. As a matter of fact, it's always our practice to supply high quality goods at reasonable prices. Flying pigeon is the best of its kind at the price.
How do you find studying a language on the internet?
What part of the country do you come from?
Good afternoon, Mrs Smith.
It is December 25th.
And I don't like meat that much.The only meat I eat is chicken.
Have you checked your connection settings?
I like the apartment, but I see something wrong with it.
I'll get all of that for you right away. Someone should be up shortly
The usual place. In front of the treasure house.
I want to make an omelet, so actually this is really silly, I've never made one before. How do you make an omelet?
yeah, an office that runs efficiently by using nothing other than online communication technologies. I pay the rent and share office services with others in the same building.
I don't know whether she has it bad for me, but she enjoys being with me.
I see. What is your baggage? And do you remember the tag's number or color?
Yes. I am very glad to have the chance.
The ATM machine outside won't give me back my card.
I'm hungry. I'd like to eat something.
Did you catch the news this morning? I heard that there was a fire on Byron Street.
When do children start school in your country?
Yes, I will. Have a nice flight back.
That ’ s useful to know. Thanks. I ’ ll just log off and shout down my computer and we can go for a coffee.
Lastly, may I please know what name I should make the reservation under?
There's been a dramatic change in the weather pattern.
That ’ s quite a while. Let ’ s make it the week after you get back, then.
Oh, yes. I remember.
... I knew it. I always knew you were a lesbian!
We have over sixty employees. We have about forty factory workers and technical people and the rest are admin and sales staff. We started off with only ten people, so our workforce has grown a lot.
But you're busy, aren't you?
So sorry, we're fully booked in that room. Would you like to make reservation some other time?
That being the case, I don ’ t think that I am going to show the income next time.
Yes, but why should you want to do that?
Exactly. You'll find someone again. You should get your mind off of this. Let's go shopping.
Great. Thank you.
Mr. Jones, shall we now discuss the packaging?
I was there between 88 and 90.
How much do you have budgeted for our trip to Las Angeles?
I don't know! The picture went blank all of a sudden. It's probably the picture tube.
Could you type up this document for me, Sandra?
Let me see them.Are these all the notes you have?
You can check out two books at a time. But you can't check out newspapers, magazines and periodicals ; they have to be read within library.
I needed to write it for $ 100.
I'll catch you later then. Have a wonderful morning.
Yes, I'm looking for a job as a clerk typist in English.
I have no idea.
What did the doctor say?
It should be close to the university. Neither of us are good at getting up in the mornings and closer it is, the later we can get up.
What? It’s only 9p. m. Now. Why today he went to bed so early?
Did you want to go?
What style do you want?
That ’ s my final offer. Take it or leave it.
Sure. But there is a minimum charge of $ 60 for a service visit. If your freezer needs parts, there will be an additional charge.
Yes, and I know a few things I'd spend the money on.
Sometimes, we, human beings, really had done something wrong, so we should admit it at first.
Do you want anything to make you feel better?
Do you feel comfortable with the new system by microcosm?
carol said that she would spend some time checking that everyone is up-to-date with their work.
My pleasure. But I'm afraid I'm not much of a dancer.
I don't have the slightest clue.
We have various transportation services. Would you prefer a private vehicle?
Not at all. She's a joy to have in my class.
Oh, I see, that's the size of 12 x 18cm. How many prints do you want to have?
Titanic is playing tonight. It's a blockbuster.
Well, If you live in other as long enough you love them just as much.
London is such a historical city! There ’ s history everywhere you look. There ’ s nelson ’ s column, built as a monument to one of the Britain ’ s great admirals and his important victory. He won the battle of Trafalgar in 1805.
Yeah. Anyway he is driving me mad.
Yes. These posters are new. I bought them last week and put them up on my bedroom walls yesterday.
Thank you so much. You are so sweet.
Of course, the interest rates depend on what is announced at the time, but at the moment, the interest for a 2 - year loan is 5.29 %
I'd be delighted to, John. Saturday did you say?
What? Are you kidding? I'm only 22 years old!
What university would you enter?
They'll still charge us a corkage fee.
I'd like cream onion soup please.
You won't go to work today, Steven, It's Sunday. Come and have breakfast now.
I have changed a case for it.
How many days will you be out of school?
He just made history.
they're not actually that bad. They could be worse. What do you think about it?
He is penny wise and pound-foolish.
Leo, I really think you ’ re beating around the bush with this guy. I know he used to be your best friend in college, but I really think It’s time to lay down the law.
That wouldn ’ t be a lie!
Of course. The website is ' www. zhilian - zhaopin. com. CN '.
Which kind of food do you like, chinese food, western food or sea food?
The job market is so competitive nowadays. I want to develop some useful skills.
But we may not get another partner.
Yes, it is. Are you here on business?
Do you need to be located in a particular school district?
How do you like your coffee?
My feelings are mixed on the issue too. By helping you I ’ m losing a valuable and trusted employee. However I think you are taking a step in the right direction.
Of course he was called ' the father of the Olympics '.
Certainly.Just a moment, sir.
It's hot.
Yes, I ’ m going to take some university courses there.
Sorry, sir. Dinners are available 20 minutes, drinks are served throughout the flight.
The round shape pair?
Oh, sorry. Do you know the number for a car store, then?
Could you come back later? We ’ re right in the middle of dinner.
And he was so young, with so much life to look forward to.
Sorry, I can't give you an immediate answer for this problem, let me talk to our general manager first.
Hmm, let me see. Boil some water, and then whisk two eggs.
Very good sir. Here is your bill. Please check and sign it.
What was taken?
Wait a moment, let me check it out for you. It's 200085.
Let me check. Yes. Your 1,000 remittance, please.
Here is your balance.
what's the weather forecast for tomorrow?
One of my strengths is my ability to be flexible. I've seen companies go through many changes in structure and management philosophy. I've had to adjust my style to the new environment several times. As far as weaknesses, I really enjoy my work, and sometimes I put in too much time. But by being aware of my tendency to overwork, I have learned to pace myself more and work less overtime.
It depends on the topic, the teacher, and the way the course is set up. Yesterday, even though we only had a short time to discuss the issues, the workshop got us all thinking. We learned some very basic, but very useful methods of dealing with personnel issues.
Well, what brings you here?
I've noticed you've been working overtime a lot.
I ’ d like to buy an inexpensive camera.
Please show me your receipt again.
I had a terrible journey back from Bangkok last week.
After you total your hours, make sure you sign it and turn it in to your supervisor.
What is the next step?
How would you like this order shipped?
see, now something good has happened to you on a bus trip!
45 Yuan. If you buy the two, you can get a small bottle of nail polish for free.
Daniel, I am not tall enough to reach the of the blackboard.
What are in this folder?
That ’ s the flower girl and the ring bearer. I ’ m pretty sure they ’ re the groom ’ s niece and nephew.Oh, they look so cute!
It is beef. Do you like it?
We wish to express our desire to trade with you in leather shoes.
So, why did you apply for such a demanding job?
The return bus will leave the campground at 5 p. m. and return to campus 3 hours later at 8 p. m.
Hello? Can you give me a tow? My tour car's stranded.
Do you want me to give you a ride?
I will need your arms raised to shoulder height.
Thanks for the advice, Mr. Macmillan. I'll keep it in mind. I had better head off though. I ’ m meeting my husband for dinner.
I need to go to the bank.
But we need them taken with digital cameras.
Wonderful, I will give you a chance of interview.
Let me get some large curly fries.
So do I.
Sure. The guest is welcomed by being served tea. But if after chatting for a while, the host asks servants or family members to serve a new cup of tea, or add some hot water, he is giving another signal.
Is she chubby?
It’s an absolute outrage, Sarah, the US government wants to give 25 billion dollars of taxpayers ’ money to the auto industry. These are companies that have been mismanaged and are now nearly bankrupt.
You will need to fill out a Continued Claim Form every two weeks.
Me too. But I think we can do something else for a change.
Can't be greater. If you ride on bumpy, hilly roads, a mountain bike is what you need. But if you just ride comfortably along the city lanes, you might choose a road bike.
Yes, I have all of them. I am totally competent to be a senior executive.
she's very generous with her money. I think that's because she was poor when she was young.
Oh that's great, congratulations! What's your new position?
You are quite right.
OK, I will try. As for stamp, don't you think it is an expensive hobby?
Thank you very much. See you tomorrow afternoon.
I am running Chinese arts and crafts.
But I put my foot down and insisted on her forgetting that.
I prefer the absent.the way I see it, to do the dishes is boring.
Why don't you try counting sheep?
Do you think though that... that in... in a sense television skilled people's own er... sort of, creativity or their ability entertain themselves because if they're bored all they do is justturn on the television?
I thought they let you go.
Sure you can ; when would you like to come in?
Sure. On a chessboard, fire is much more intensive. It has a smaller board, while those bigger pieces-chariots, horses and bishops-can cover longer distances.
Of course. I've arranged it at 10 0 ' clock tomorrow morning.
Yes, we'll do so.
About 20 minutes.
I'm terrible sorry. I seem to have mislaid your MP4.
Good! I just thought I'd let you know.
I'd like to apply for a credit card with you.
I want some sort of candy.
Your dog is really cute. What's his name?
What is important to me is the job and the people who I will be working with, so regarding salary, I leave it to you and I am sure that you will make me a fair offer.
Hmm. Why do you think they gave it to him and not to you?
Great, we have to walk now.
have a look outside for me. Does that look like hail to you?
Thanks a lot, bye bye.
It's a Mrs. Peters, Marilyn Peters.
The People's Park is located on Nanjing Road, near Limbo road, just on the opposite side of the International Hotel.
His number's 4945939.
Yeah, I think that is the best option. Do you serve food on the train? Twelve hours is such a long time!
Well. To be honest, I usually sucked up to teachers because I wanted them to give me good grades. However, Miss Baymler didn ’ t treat me any differently. She really didn ’ t have any teacher ’ s pets.
John's father got married again.
Where are you going to find one?
Oh, I went on a holiday in the city of Chende.
Can I leave early today?
Certainly. What size do you take?
Sure. I'd love to.
Are you free this Saturday evening?
Yeah. I really like Lesley.
It looks that way. That's probably why the door wasn't locked when we came in.
No. I haven't had a chance to read the paper yet.
We have two cleaning ladies. But both of them have received little education.
Could I just take your credit card number please? I should mention that there is a cancellation charge of $ 20.
hello, Kate! How are you doing?
It's just about ten minutes ' walk. Go along this street, on the third cross you'll find it on your left.
Ideally, I ’ d like to have a job that will allow me to work from home several days a week. I ’ m the kind of person who can set priorities, work well independently, and set my own pace. I actually successfully worked from home for several months in my current job when a problematic pregnancy forced me to stay in bed. But I realize that many employers do not have experience with employees who work from home, and I have, of course, performed very successfully in a traditional office setting.
Well, can I put something in this handbag?
How do you do? I'm Ted Nugent.
Thanks! These are beautiful. You shouldn ’ t have!
I'll take it if you give me a discount.
That's very clear. I think I can find my way now. Thank you.
Well, now you're really going to freak out when I tell you who aced it... what's-her-face... the one who always kisses up to the teacher.
I'd like to apologize for my carelessness. May I clean it up for you?
Now I repeat, 5,000 transistor sets, specifications as shown in our catalogue at $ 20 each C. I. F. Los Angeles.
That's it. It'll take you about five minutes.
Oh, it is precious.
Oh, yes, it was very interesting.
stirred will be fine.
What can we do?
What? You can ’ t be serious!
sure. What do you need?
When you become a permanent employee, you will have the insurances. You will get monthly pay and will be on eight-hour / day work shift.
I think it's great! I really like the color, and it goes really well with your eyes. I've actually been eyeing that dress at Maxine's for a while now, but I wasn't sure I could afford ninety-five dollars for a dress at the moment.
OH, yes. I heard of a lot of about it. I like very much to try it. Where can I find it?
Really? How long have you been playing the violin?
You should have been at home and enjoyed a big meal.
It is so quiet here. I like the place.
No, I'm here all by myself.
Great. Would you like coffee or tea with that?
I ’ Ve been having problems getting onto the Internet.
Yes, that's right. I like this city very much and would like to make my home here.
These two are the only ones.
Better hurry, sir. Remember you have to check out in less than half an hour.
OK.We wait for you.
Good idea. I noticed that on our way to the tower there are so many shops selling all kinds of souvenirs.
They are my personal effects.
I will call you when I find it.
How do I know when to tell EDD that have I started a new job?
I don ’ t know what happened to me. I just lost it.
Ok. I just need your name and credit card number to hold the room.
Oh, Steven, I made a big mistake.
Right now, there are three bedrooms, two barrooms, a kitchen, a sitting room, a dining room, and a living room. We're hoping to add on a green room and a guest bedroom. In fact, when the guest bedroom is ready, you should come and stay with us for a weekend.
Thank you, Doctor.
I'm afraid that's impossible. You can't expect us to reduce it to that extent.
Yes, is there any vacant room for tomorrow?
OK. I will get you some right now.
Can I have a look as well?
What movie are you going to see?
Look! It's amazing. I can't wait to try it out!
Please clean up the table.
I was wondering if you could company me to the Ball?
I will need to take your passport picture.
i am offering you my services. for your church. what do you say?
Where is your domicile?
One moment please, Ms White.
I am sorry, there is no difference.
The pharmacy will give you a discount since you came to the clinic.
I look forward to more of athletes.
We've already cut down our price to cost level.
It’s quite an interesting place to live. The best thing to do in my city is go shopping. There are several indoor and outdoor markets, department stores and shopping malls.
Is breakfast served here?
Jim? Jim?... What are you doing in the kitchen?
No extra charge at all. But your berth will be invalid.
Oh, I feel ok but I ’ m still very tired.
I went to Super Junior's concert last night. It was fantastic.
This is such a beautiful day! Great for sailing!
Here ’ s your $ 300.
Have you begun cleaning up that room of yours?
It's not that hot. It's cooler than yesterday. Let's go swimming!
There are several Chinese writing programs you can use with Macintosh. Chinese is no problem for Apple.
Has everything been OK with you lately?
Hang on, let me finish telling you what happened. Where was I?
She's a late riser.
No problem. Your ticket is for Trans Pacific Flight 87 from Detroit to Beijing at 3 forty p. m. on April 13. You will arrive at Beijing International Airport at six 35 p. m. on April 14. Your electronic
Wow! Where's the treasure?
Do you have anything to declare? Jewellery or cash?
I am calling to impart the news that you are supposed to have an interview.
Thanks, Mary. You are real pal. I'll call now to set up an interview.
You ’ re lying.
Please pay close attention to the safety of the shipment.
Was it any good?
Yeah. That ’ s a good idea. I heard that coke was first used as a medicine.
Well, what about it? As it happens I've got two tickets for next thursday evening. I thought perhaps.
It’s horrible. Why do drivers run a red light then?
Well, I haven't made such arrangements with the factory yet. So I'd like to make sure if it is acceptable to the factory before making a commitment to you.
He would have recovered from the stress and got married again.
And they lack originality. Talent shows like ' Super Girl ' and ' Super Boy ' are largely clones of ' The American Idol '.
That's why it's interesting.
I'm not sure but there seems to be something wrong with it. Is it still under guarantee?
Connecticut is east of New York.
Oh this is the new little EEE notebook from Asks. How much did you pay?
I am confused by what he said.
I hid so that it couldn't see me. Slowly it got closer and closer, until...
When will it arrive?
When is your vacation going to start?
it does, actually. Maybe we should wait for it to clear up before we go shopping.
Sure. How much would you like to change?
It's more violent than TV news!
What do you mean?
And this is the schedule for Mrs. Watson. Eileen from our department will take care of her.
Tell me where it happened and how?
Where is the benefits office?
I really like you.
With our Personal Automobile Consumer Loan, the borrower can borrow up to 80 % of the purchase price.
Good luck! I ’ Ve heard It’s very difficult to get a visa to go to the united states.
I can take a little time off of work, or I can go on a weekend, also.
Wow. She can be really nasty, can't she?
I think we should have a house cleaning today. What's your opinion?
Your car is rather old. Why not change a new one?
Yes, that ’ s right. But I had no idea I would be charged for all this. Thank goodness my company will let me reimburse all this.
Can you come back in three days for a fitting?
That's great. I'd like to book four single rooms, five double rooms and three suites.
But I am told that you dance wonderfully well.
Have you ever run into a person who tries to bleed you white?
Unfortunately, we do. Let's plan for something together for Wednesday. We can go right after work.
I'll work hard.
Hello, welcome to prise star hotel. How may I do for you?
Hi Jane, you look great.
It's awfully hot.
I hear many teenagers will spend hours and hours sitting at computers. And they don't care about their own health at all. How about you?
I would be happy to help. What would you like me to help with, food or entertainment?
It's a fruit a little smaller than a grapefruit. It has a big seed in it.
Well, Last night when I returned from thetheatre I found I lost my wallet.
Have you packed the camera yet?
Do you think It’s safe to leave to get a quick bite?
I don ’ t blame you. Perhaps you could sublet it.
You know, about David and new boss.
Today's interview is for us to get to know a little about you. If needed, there will be a more lengthy interview later. So, if you ’ re comfortable, let's begin.
Okay, I ’ ll take it. By the way, do you have delivery service?
I hope so.
I'll be sure to do that.
Thanks mom! Can I have dessert now? I love chocolate cake!
You mean I won't get a raise until recession ends?
We start on Monday. Can you be there?
alright. Get out your books and I'll help you prepare.
Where shall I pay the bill?
You are late.
How much more would it cost to upgrade?
Just water, please.
That ’ s interesting.
Hmm... Oh, this one, ' The Drunken Beauty '. This is a real classic.
Is this to go or to eat here?
Thank you so much, Mr Addison.
What time would you like the reservation for?
I was taught in high school how to draw and paint.
You are still student so I don't think you should have time for that.
Well, I thought he was, but he ends up to be a con man.
OK. How much should I pay?
Yes? I'll be very glad if I could be of any help to you.
Good afternoon.can I be of any assistance to you?
Oh, yeah! I think the love of sports starts when kids are very young. Americans come from many different backgrounds so I guess sports are something we can all enjoy together.
I am always on the look out for such girls.
I'm going to have to do some shopping today.
She'd better keep away from them.
Perhaps the food was bad.
It looks like you are about to get dressed. Did you forget we are in a car on the road?
are you looking for a course?
Oh. Hi Matt. I went snowboarding yesterday and my whole body aches.
Hi, Ms. Seymour? It’s Allan Parker. I ’ Ve been waiting to call you and thank you for all your help last week.
So why do you think you're in love?
His grandfather is the richest person in the area.
I would advise you to enjoy the dish while it is hot.
Mom! That is so unfair!
I'm afraid I have to return this sweater.
Excuse me, sir? I ’ m afraid this is a no-smoking area.
Of course. They will be ready in a few minutes.
The computer doesn't work when I push the power cotton.
Just a minute, please.It ' s in my bag.Here it is.
What kind of people would you like to work with?
Look, how grand magnificent the Tiananmen Gate tour is!
Yes. This is your receipt.
Elvin? Which one is he?
That ’ s the mini-bar. Each day we check what ’ s missing and restock it. The items you consume are put on your bill.
Whoops. That's my pager. I had to get it for work.
You're being childish. Your nose will heal. And so will your pride, if you let it.
Um... how can I put this? Let ’ s just say that at this pace, we will be filing for Chapter eleven in less than three months.
I don't really know. I have just bought this new car. And it's the first time I've gotten gas for it.
Would you like to sit in the hall or in the private room?
By the way, would you like to see movies?
Glad to hear that. Generally, it is 2 to 3 hours more than your working hours.
Well, it's an automatic camera. You just press the button.
You're right. I have to get up early to go to work tomorrow.
No, I ’ Ve been feeling fairly good most of the time. It just is hard to breathe.
My name is Dick Brown.
I went bungee jumping yesterday. It was so exciting.
OK. Thank you. Bye-bye.
it's his 50th birthday.
Yes, it does. Just like a needle prick. Besides, the place that hurts often feels cold, too.
I can ’ t believe that Anthony is finally getting married!
I agree. People often criticize tv for showing too much sex and violence.
Do you want cash back?
OK, thanks. I really appreciate it.
All right, we'll take it.
Actually, you might because there ’ s a big convention in town this weekend.
That ’ s true. But we have known each other over the Internet for a few months now. Actually we are on an intimate level. We even plan to be engaged next month.
It looks so beautiful. How much is it?
If you hire me, I'll start studying Spanish again.
Around six pm.
No, they won't. They are shrink proof.
I have a Promissory Note, but it's not called that. It's a Bill of Exchange.
I do sympathize with you, I assure you.
Good morning. I ’ m looking for a one-bedroom apartment downtown.
Last week, we had a performance review on all the staff in our department in last quarter. Stevens, can you provide more information about the performance review?
hmm, I think I've got an idea. Maybe I can get her an ever-green plant to take back home.
Do you like this dress, madam?
You can ’ t possibly know in advance how much you will be working. If you mail it in too soon, we will reject it!
I know. At the inland hotel, they have an interesting policy. When you check out, you put some money in a special box at reception. Each evening, the money in the box is shared equally by the hotel staff.
Well, it's our fault.We are sorry for that.Would you please fill out the form? We will pay for you.
It's a very popular game in America.
Well, you ’ d better heat it before you eat it.
Maybe another time. People say that boys ' dormitories are in a mess, is it true?
Where is your car now?
Has he been late before?
They're my family
Yeah. I ’ m still learning how to control his behavior and my temper. My child is almost two years old, and I ’ Ve learnt the distraction technique when he cries for something.
Is there anything worth watching on another channel?
The tank is almost empty. I guess I ’ ll drive to the petrol station to fill it up.
Well, the first thing on my list is a new blender. I decided to also get a juicer and a new coffee maker.
Hi. My name is Dolma.
Don't worry, it will work out fine once you get there. I'll see you then.
No, thank you. I don't like soup. I'd rather have some fruit juice to start with.
Not particularly. I like a girl to be good.
OK. But I'm not familiar. I don't know the beginning part.
What's so terrible too, is the fools we've made of ourselves.
you don't look too well. Maybe you should take the day off from work.
Oh, are the connections correct?
You may choose from the fish and beef.
Thank you. Now if you'll just give me a credit card.
That ’ ll help you make more money.
Your price is rather out of line, much higher than we expected. We can't buy with your offer.
OK, it's my pleasure. How many tickets?
It's Ellie and her friends.
I think we should do the floors before we work on the curtains and walls.
Mmmm... a photo I. D. I have my New Jersey driver ’ s license. Is that ok?
Let me see. Yes, I have the address and hotel telephone number here.
That's easy. It was your office ergonomics that decided me.
Right over here, sir. What-size do you wear?
They were really tough.
Can you recommend some popular tour?
Myrdal, purse doesn ’ t just disappear. Think carefully. When did you have it last?
My plane leaves at seven twenty-five.
Wow, I didn ’ t know! Probably because I flunked history in school.
Hello, this is Shogun Restaurant.
Well, you know the time of shipment means a lot to us.
Yes, they're right. In fact, we have either restored or adopted international practices in our foreign trade.
I ’ d say the main reason is poverty. Countries and their people get frustrated because they have so little. If their neighbors have some resources, they try to steal them by military force.
That ’ s out of the question.
I want to leave as soon as possible.
most movies are. Another problem for me was the film was dubbed in German with English subtitles.
You just turn a deaf ear when she talks.
Well, but for this one, don ’ t bring your cell phone to meetings, I think it is not reasonable. What if there are some important calls?
By the way, what should I do with the key when I go out?
I see that you're pretty talented.
Not too rare.
Acknowledgments can also help the job-hunters to show their good attainment.
I should not have listened to you.
Sounds real good. It's a pity that I missed that.
What's wrong? You don't like ancient Egypt?
I played outfield. I hated the infield because I never figured out all the bounces.
Could you do that?
Thanks. It’s nothing special actually.
I was never told to go to court.
Well. I have nearly forgotten. Mr Green from ABC Company had an appointment with me, but I will be very busy at that time. If he calls, you can tell him the appointment will be changed to next week.
Explain the economic law? An essay question again?
What is your policy on returns?
I know. It's a major symbol of China.
Oh, yes. I remember it clearly. Is there anything wrong with it?
How long did you have in mind?
Sir this is the 56th floor! We are on the 70th!
Buy a decent suit.
yes, her daughter's having a baby, so she's moving in with her to help out. I think if you are interested, you can come over and have a look.
Would you like some more rice?
I agree, but I like wire frames.
Wait, what are you doing? I ’ m a married woman! You can ’ t just try to kiss me like this!
That is easy. You can go directly to Tai'an city and buy a ticket to Mount Tai.
It’s a beautiful day to see two world class teams face each other and fight for their right to be called champions.
Excellent. How many would you like?
Yes, I nearly didn't sleep last night.
Impossible! Well, I'm not giving up yet. It's not over till the fat lady sings!
You don't have to keep saying that, Yuri. It's not your fault.But me--I'm the one who should be sorry.It was me who suggested operations here in the first place! Oh, what can we do?
I often do, but I ’ m worried about the responses from other people.
Yes, the company will also give me a prize of 1,000 Yuan.
What do you think I should do about it?
What's the price for that suit?
That ’ s great. Thanks very much. Would you like a cup of tea or coffee?
Come on! In the two hours we've been here you haven't sung even one song!
Do you have any going anywhere in the EU? If you do, those are less expensive.
It’s OK. It seems we have a lot in common.
You should try it. You won't be disappointed.
Come this way please.We ' Ve got plenty of them and they're all on the shelf near the cashier's desk.
What color set do you prefer?
What kind of card?
perhaps I should have a try.
Honey, I don ’ t know what to tell you. Of course Tony is a young child. But do not underestimate his ability to learn and reason.
Help me sort out my problem, will you?
Yes, sir. Your shirts will be ready by Thursday morning. Anything else?
Come here and I will measure you.
How can I live without Helen?
Dancing. The boys from the Campus Band have promised to play music for us.
Well, those are my terms. As long as you honor them, we do business.If you break faith and try to take advantage, I'll find someone else to work with. Can you live with that?
Sure, this will be a really good picture.
It's amazing.
That's him!
Not really, I am familiar with this area.
Some men do, but not me.
"We sing "" Happy Birthday "" at the party and have birthday cakes."
What is the scale of the company?
No, that's all for now. What does it come to?
Thanks. Do you sell aspirin here?
That ’ s a good idea. You have plenty of experience in marketing, don ’ t you?
Just make yourself at home.
Why on earth would she do that? You mean that she intentionally did not eat any food for days? That's crazy!
Sure. I'm going to take more pictures today.
Can we go to the Carlton next time and can you wear that fabulous suit?
Yes, our commission is very reasonable. We usually get a 10 % commission of the amount on every deal.
We celebrate it to commemorate a great patriotic poet of China — Qu Yuan.
Goodbye. Thank you again for coming.
What a police officer!
Ah, thank you.Please bring your luggage here for inspection.
What kind of work are you doing now?
Gino, do you really need to go?
Yes I did.
Dad, you talk well, but can you appreciate that kind of art?
You ’ re welcome. I hope it'll come out well.
Jogging, yoga, or even just taking a walk.
I want to stay under $ 20.
What? A fire? Oh, my God! What shall I do? Please get me out of here!
That ’ s human nature.
They are well known for high quality, that ’ s why.
Jenny, you're too lazy. You should do some exercise. See, you're getting fat.
There is one just around the corner.
OK. They will be ready by 7:00
Yes, I can do that this afternoon.
Thirty percent discount, OK? That ’ s the lowest price.
Actually, I prefer if you didn't. Air conditioning makes me sneeze.
Yes, as the New Year is coming, they ’ re organizing a party for all their customers.
May I help you with something?
When I first moved in, I walked everywhere. But within a week, I had my purse stolen — just a block away from the police station! Now, I always take public transportation.
I think this kind of dress will stay in fashion for a few more years. People don ’ t change fashions every year. It would be too expensive.
Really? So what ’ s the news?
So how many people are coming for the dinner tonight?
Would you like to order some dessert?
But she can ’ t be home now. She might have gone to the library.
Andrew, this is Linda Chen.
Oh, that's good.
Come on.Plenty of room upstairs.Fares please!
You have to pay it off before you can check out more books.
Well, shall we go to the hotel right now? I've already made a reservation for you.
I ’ Ve been told you might have a vacant room.
Never? Really? I'm surprised.
Our product features inventory tracking software, which continuously updates and tracks your inventory on a real-time basis.
more or less. There's just one thing bothering me.
I'm phoning about the job that was in the paper last night.
Please don't eat turnip and garlic when taking this medicine.
That's much more convenient. We don't even have to bring the flavorings.
How was your education going on in Australia?
Yes. It is. One way to stop countries fighting is to cut off their financial support. Wars are very expensive.
Sure. I'll do it after lunch. What length do you need?
Oh... I'm such a newbie. But at least I'm sure I'll get that tennis racket.
OK... there we go. Thanks very much.
Is there anything else that I can do for you today?
Yes. People should look out, because maybe there will be tornadoes coming.So it's called a watch.
Sounds interesting. Especially that we are Olympic Volunteers.
No, I didn't feel like it.
I'd like to take the one that goes to the Wild Animal Park.
I ’ ll just have to wait for UCLA.
that ’ s pretty strict, if you ask me.
Dad, come on! Just tell me.
Well, those books are really good. I like them too. How do you entertain yourself?
Do me a favor, and take a taxi. It'd make me feel a lot better.
thanks, I like it too. I bought it at the nearby department store.
May I know where you are going?
Would you like to have a cup of tea or coffee?
I'm sorry to bring this up, but would it be possible for you to write me a letter of recommendation before you go?
Mine are the same way. It seems like they've been overcooked.
Come here, please. We'd like to wash your hair first. That way it will be easier to cut and style. I think you'll like this style. It's very fashionable.
We have to send it to landfill. It's very expensive because the government recently introduced a landfill tax so we're planning to build a new incineration plant next year to burn our waste.
Hello, can I help?
why ere you getting off work so late? The office close at six, doesn ’ t it?
You've never been in a gay bar before?
Just 6 digits.
well, I didn't think so at first. But as we started talking, I found his extremely funny and witty. I couldn't stop laughing at his jokes! We have so much in common. We like the same teams, music, a
Wow, that ’ s quite a long journey. Do you drive a car?
Yes, how do I get to your shop from Chilin?
Sure. Anything else?
Of course.Right now it is the slack season, we will give you ten percent off.
Oh, yes, but we used to do so much together.
Now I am afraid I can't get to the airport on that day. I want to change my flight for the 21st.Is that all right?
I'll just get a Snickers then.
It better be more than last year.
A friend told me I might find a room here.
I hear Yolanda has been studying every night this week for the exam.
They are sense of post, mentality quality, first aid ability, emergency adjustment, and law consciousness.
So, what's the problem?
OK. I ’ ll have them. Is there any soup?
I have a little trouble, and I don't know how to deal with it.
No problem. Thank you for being so understanding.
I hate to trouble of you. But it is urgent. Please leave this message into him
Its gross area is approximately nine hundred square feet. There's one living room, one dining room, one master bedroom and two other bedrooms.
Ok, see you 10 o'clock next Monday!
You know, the things that are free, like the soap and the shampoo.
Yes. I'd like a hamburger and a large order of french fries, please.
We have a great selection. What decade are you looking for?
Mom, are those tattoos on your brows?
It seems that my employees are having trouble working as a team. Not to mention serious lapses in service, sales and leadership skills.
You're right. The invitation said two to seven. I was there at two o'clock, but most people didn't arrive until three or four. They didn't start cooking until five o ’ clock.
Well, I wouldn't swim in it - but the water is much cleaner than it was a few years ago.
Exactly. Having Jo as my friend is one of the best things that's ever happened to me.
I'm on my way out to a New Year's banquet.How do I look? Is my make-up ok?
Some are genuine. But all our reproductions are clearly marked and priced.
Hello sir. Good to meet you, too.
I see.After all, he's boss's son.
OK. I will mention how great you were about helping me today. I appreciate your help.
I feel chilly, I've got cramps, I keep throwing up, and I feel dizzy and tired.
No problem. I can do that for you.
What's so fun about them?
Do you somewhere often, Laura?
Take the subway. It’s $ 1.50 per ride. You can buy a metro card at the station.
No, I can ’ t let you have it for 12.How about 14?
Not in a million years!
Yes, I can bring the outline when I come to the meeting.
Yes. How are you, Anna?
All right.Now that everybody's here. Shall we be getting started? Miss Lin, are you ready?
No, I went for an interview.
Do you want me to have him give you a call?
You can divide it into several documents to mail. Or you can download the mentioned software from the warning.
I can't even afford a purse that expensive.
I'm from CTC Trade Company. Here is my card.
Great. Do you think we need a Chinese dictionary?
Both actually. S, Y, B, I, L.
That's good news. The car I'm interested in is priced at 120,000 RIB, but I think I can get a bit of discount on that. I can afford to put up around 40,000 RIB myself.
Hello, Xu Hua. I'm Paula. I'm American.
Yeah, but I'm still waiting for my invitation.
Would you please ask when he will be free?
new furniture makes a room seem so fresh. I see that you also bought a new lamp for your bedside table.
Good coming! Welcome to J P Interior Design.
How does 11
That's great, bring me a bottle of that please.
Ping-pong must be the top-ranking popular sport in China. It seems to me in every school, factory, army unit, or residential area, men and women, young and old, are swinging paddles.
Let me try. Oh, I missed!
Egg! I told you about it last week! Smelly Toes is playing, and Eric asked if I would go with him!
Okay, give me the roses.
Yes. Do you know what type of checking account you would like to open, business or personal?
Oh, don't mention it. It was terrible.
When would you like your account closed?
Are you kidding me? Why do you say so?
I'm sorry. Our company has just opened. There are always too many things to handle. You know that.
Oh, Sam! Is this your dog?
What do you think of big department store?
I am so glad they called you. It feels like something is really wrong with my stomach!
Oh really what ’ s happening?
Okay, but I haven't prepare supper.
Yes, so they are no longer being sold.
I want to try on this suit.
I understand. That ’ s why Christopher and I want to find a place in a small town, far from the city.
When he told me I had to work overtime, that was it.
Is that hard to get a passport?
Don't be absent-minded even when you are not interested in the talk.
It's not on this platform.These trains are uptown and downtown, not crosstown.You have to go up these stairs over there.
So shall we have lunch together? I ’ d like to take you this time.
Oh, I'm sorry I bothered you. I'm really sorry.
We don't usually do that unless we are asked to. I'lI tell my staff to take care of this for you.
Not too bad, I suppose.
When are you off?
It's said that the father's will caused the dissension among the two brothers.
Could I have a transfer please?
Could you help me figure out why I am missing my unemployment check for this week?
Sometimes what young people like is different from the old. Maybe we can go visit first and then do some shopping.
This is terrible. Why do hackers play such a dirty trick?
Well, I didn't realize that.
A Notice of Unemployment Insurance Award letter will be sent to you.
You shouldn't have used the machine.Did you lose your money?
I just got it at the special health store. It's for my flabby arms.
She doesn't need to do that, I didn't do anything.
We are on Nanjing Road, next to the theatre.
You also need to choose a gift for your father, right?
I'm afraid I don't like seafood quite well. Would you suggest some others?
Well, my price range is a 5,000 dollars to 7,000 dollars, I'm looking for a marquise cut on the wide band.
As a matter of fact, I haven't danced for a long time.
Do you want me to show you where I found them?
Ah thank you! I'm very excited. We were going to get married next year, but then we decided to get married on holiday instead. It was wonderful.
I'd love to try some snacks.
I think there is an accident ahead.
Yes, my name is Bill.
Working hard and being frugal are both virtues. I strive to practise these two virtues in my life.
The toilet flushes and the shower has hot and cold water
Take two tablets every six hours.
But, we just finished eating lunch.
Have you received any honors?
Can you even hear what he's saying?
If you want to order meals, call 8801.If you need other help, call 8803 and someone will be there.
I know, we've met.
That's crossing the line.
I would like to transfer some money.
There's a bag in the bathroom. Just put your laundry in it.
I'm taking a vacation to visit a friend there. Have you ever been there before?
Well, you can look under the author's name.
Try to be more careful in future.
you've been promoted? when did that happen?
I'd like to have this roll of film developed.
Well take your time. There are so many things to sell.
Oh, it's a Polo. It has the logo on the back and at the bottom in the left-hand corner.
Yes, I know her. We're friends.
It's also horrible having to be at a bus stop in any kind of weather.
Good morning, sir. Welcome to Flower Hotel.
Your seat is in the non-smoking section, so please refrain from smoking.
I'd like to reserve a double room. I will be arriving next Monday, the 12th. My name is Wilson.
Oh! I'm sorry, but I wish you could stay.
Hey, Jack, where's your car?
Come on, sister. This is the seventh glass already.
Would Dr.Black be able to see me at 9:00 a. m. tomorrow?
Hey, guys! Did you see that sign?
Well, sir. Come with me. I will show you the waiting room. You must be tired. Have a short rest there. We will call you later.
really? Are you sure this is a good idea?
Should I be contacting my bank in the meantime?
Me too. I finally understand why a small shop like this can always befilmed with dozens of people.
Good. Can I walk through this building?
It might be the English teacher. What about you?
No, sir. That's only with the very big companies. I'm sorry, but this car must be returned to this lot.
Pretty good. Actually, I'm quite busy with work. By the way, say ' hello ' to your husband.
Well, I do not know Chinese tea at all.
What is the white powder? Are they drugs?
It'll begin at nine o'clock sharp.
That sounds like a good idea. Where should I go to eat that?
It will be held at the Music Hall.
What hairstyle do you feel will look best on me?
Position yourself, swinging the club, watch the ball and hit it as hard as you can.
Thank you for your compliments. You're welcome to our hotel again.
Bruh, that the workshop was on point.
Next left then right? OK.
Thank you. Mmm. Can you tell me about the terrine?
I'm glad you could come to see us off. I have enjoyed your interpreting. You have done a wonderful job. I hope you be my interpreter again next time I'm here.
Would you like to look at my cousin's car?
Are you an art aficionado?
Oh, right.Thanks for your help.
Mom, can I watch TV?
Well, I want to extend it for 2 more nights.
Have you been a class leader?
yes. He always get us special gift. We should repay his kindness.
I believe your corporation will try your best and I understand fully your feeling, if your tender conditions proved be suitable for our general conditions of tender, we will accept your submission of tender.
It was raining when I left New York.
It’s a very important experience for me. First, it improved my organizing ability, and let me understand how to resolve a problem in the overall perspective instead of my own perspective. Second, it let me know how to cooperate in harmony with people who I like or dislike.
I thought you said you didn't have any food with you today.
You definitely made the right move by calling. Our primary business is creating, conducting and customizing fully interactive human resources workshops for companies just like yours.
How many clothes of yours do you want me to wash?
I'm sorry, but he's not in the office now. Do you have an appointment?
You ’ re welcome. What ’ s the problem?
May I have a book?
Train fares are twice as expensive as the bus fare, too.
Do you know when he will be back?
Could I see the manager please? I have a complaint to make.
There were charges on my debit card that I never made.
We have one single room on the fifth floor.
OK. See you at noon.
Yes. You think a lot, too.
What are you going to do then?
Really? I am looking forward to that. What about the traffic?
There is a tornado warning on. My mother just told me she heard it on the radio.
yes. One bedroom is for my wife and i. there ’ s another for our daughter. My wife wants to use the third one as a guest room, but I ’ d like to make it into a study. Our daughter is also keen on
Thank you very much. Here's 10 $, keep the change, please.
You'll see this charge on your amenities account.
Oh, how silly of me. Can we correct it here?
What is the square footage of your property? How many bedrooms and living rooms?
I will go get something to eat. You unpack first.Then, when I come back, I'll unpack.
This means digital camcorders can be connected with the digital equipments you have at home, like your digital TV or your computer.
Actually, it's not the fault of the mobile phone. But people should have a proper attitude towards it. Mobile phone is a tool serving people, not the fetters restricting them.
Sorry, I have no idea. You can call him there if you like.
Oh, does she? That's convenient.
Hi, is you, John?
No, they stayed home and played cards with the children.
You can keep the cat, but you should keep it away from me.
It'll pop up, but it won't connect to a webpage.
Hello, darling! Did you have a good day today?
Yes, I do. It's ready and waiting in my account.
The central Hotel, please. I have to be there by 6:00.
Yes.Any employee who persists in using Instant Messaging will first receive a warning and be placed on probation.At second offense, the employee will face termination.Any questions regarding this new policy may be directed to department heads.
But why? Why don't people like to buy shirts duty-free? Or shoes? I just don't understand why it's always liquor.
When will I know the results?
yes, it is. We've been dating for over 7 years. We have decided to get married on a special day and we think August 8th, 2008 is a red-letter day.
You need plenty of fruits and vegetables, small amounts of protein, and whole grains.
My stress level is pretty much what is usually is.
That's interesting. Could you give any reasons for your choice? Can you explainwhy do you put medicine first?
Yes, you may consider those two places also. Seattle, for example, is worth visiting and there's a very famous museum called Museum of Flight.
Is this change going to be beneficial for theindividuals like you and me.
That's all right. How much do they cost?
We'll use wooden cases if you insist, but the charge for packing will be considerably higher, and it also slows delivery.
I would like to look at some watch.
Is there a union?
Two boxes of transparencies for the over-head machines.
How much is the membership fee?
Get in. I'll take you.
I graduated from Beijing University. I majored in business administration.
Can I take a credit card for the deposit?
I have some extra help with my project. What would you prefer to help me with, typing or xeroxing?
That's so convenient.
No problem. May I see your receipt, please?
To be frank, you are not the only one who applies for an agent for us in your country. I'd like to know some ideas of terms on which you would be willing to operate as our agent.
What did you usually do as a head nurse?
Smiles and kind attitudes are the basics of acknowledgments.
She's in a meeting until noon.
I don't understand why you haven't come to visit me.
Two of my sisters still live at home, even though they have already graduated from university and have good jobs. They enjoy spending their free time with my parents. I guess in that respect, I'm the black sheep of the family.
You have some doubts about our products, I understand.
For what? You have a telephone at home, don't you?
I liked physics. It’s all math, really. arcs, curves, velocity, cool stuff.
I'm fine. I'm just so touched by the sad story.
What do you think is harder, reading or writing?
He ’ d like to do it as soon as possible, sir. How about tomorrow at 2:45?
What things should I avoid?
It's especially cold when the wind is blowing.
And they can deal with everything?
Many factors led me to major in mechanical engineering. The most important factor is I like tinkering with machines.
I surely know that. Don't forget that I am a regular customer here.
Or a curse.
Yes. In fact there are quite a large number of people who have no food to eat and no place to live in.
do they have to go to school on Saturdays?
Hello? Yes. Someone has passed out at Connecticut Ave. and 1st St. He isn ’ t breathing and does not have a pulse. Yes. My friend is performing CPR. OK. Thank you. They ’ re sending an ambulance. Here, let me help.
I am confused a bit but I am sure that I can figure it out.
It’s from NYU.
I'd like to have some more. It's really good.
How can his he do that?
Hi, Deborah! This is John. I'm calling from Australia.
Ok, I ’ ll try that.
Well, today is Monday.Actually, for me Monday at this time would be the best. I am free from now until 11
But you're ready for everything else?
Thanks for your compliment! Perhaps the Chinese culture as a whole has a special inclination towards aesthetics. Do you know Jin Yong?
It's on the third floor.
So I will cut the sides just above the ear. Is that good?
Yes, we were lucky. My friend's father owns a resort on one of the islands, so we were able to stay for free.
Ten days ago.
Is it your first trip to the Fair, Mr. Brown?
Tomorrow is my wife's birthday. We both love spicy Chinese dishes. I am wondering if you could recommend a good local restaurant where I can find some good spicy dishes.
He is so unskillful. I have never seen such an awkward burglar.
Then you should write your objectives, such as seeking a position in foreign trade.
Please dissolve one pill in water before taking it.
Well, now you know. Let's go to the lake over there. Some people are fishing over there. I haven't had a chance to fish in a lake, I really want to try.
I want 100 pounds. And here are 189 U. S. dollars.
I already know. Start cooking.
Yes, I will see that the room is ready by Friday. And I will check there are enough chairs, and the lighting and air-conditioning are all right.
I'm making three thousand yuan a month at my present work. I should not, of course, make a change for less. Could you provide me with a monthly salary of four thousand yuan?
All right. There we go.
I want you to have a walk with me.
Where's Boston.
Now, please wait until your flight is called. There's about twenty-five minutes to go.
What, your short already, sir.
Yes, John. I ’ m on my break. What ’ s going on?
It’s quite far away, though it's located in another part of the city. Are you planning to find a boarding house nearby?
Well, first of all, your name. What's your surname?
Not even drinking milk for one month would get us like that.
Not so good. I have a terrible cold.
May told you? Oh, May, she's such a tattletale.
I think you should realize that even the most conservative style changes.
Where did you go there.
In aisle 3.
I couldn't. I was bound and gagged.
Hello, Who's that speaking?
did you get my email?
Me too. It always smells so fresh after it rains.
And so, that concludes my outline for our marketing strategy next year. Thank you very much for your time.
I don ’ t know much about him. He died when I was just a baby. Even though I don ’ t have a blood relationship with my step-father and step-brother, I consider them to be my real family.
I went down to change some money, right?
I don't think it's right, but I can understand why they might. Imagine how much pressure there would be to win for your country!
I'll buy the moisturizing lotion and cleansing gel first. If they suit me, I'll come back for the others later.
Really? How long did it take you to find a spot yesterday?
Yes, I ’ m here to see Joanna Stevens. I have an appointment at four.
Are you planning on having someone take notes for you?
Tiffany, why are more and more people turning to the Web to find a mate?
Of course you can. ( Lead Carl to his garage. )
I'd like to choose one game for myself and one for my younger sister.
That's kind of you to say. But... the stuff we do here hasn't really challenged me very much at all.
I think we can have a try.
Usually we have a month off.
Aright. I'll meet you there at one o'clock.
Which job do you prefer, an accountant or a secretary?
We'd like you to execute the first delivery by June 30 and the second delivery by August 15.
Which university are you attending?
Come on in.Let me show you the house.Isn ' t it something?
Do you have any plan to buy a house in this city?
What does it cost to ride this bus?
Professor, I've handed in my paper. Did you read it?
Can I help you, Miss?
Could you tell me how much I owe?
No. Someone had stolen a march on me and bought it.
The internet's a lot worse.
That's interesting. So why did you become a hairdresser?
But we just drove across town. Can't we just go in to see him one last...
maybe. I haven ’ t been able to keep my food down either. That ’ s unusual.
The treadmill is excellent for helping you to build up stamina. Each time you use it, increase this distance. don't worry about your speed at first. You can increase that later.
A flea market is an outdoor place where people sell all kinds of used stuff.
I do know you like rap music, but the other two are definitely false. I ’ Ve seen you play basketball.
Hey, guys. Ready for a pick-up game of touch football?
So you must be an extravert?
How do you wish to settle your account, sir?
Oh, do you enjoy it?
It's 10 yuan.
There are lots of things, such as postcards, key chains, posters and various arts and crafts.
Thank you for calling.Goodbye.
Is there anything else you need help finding?
I don ’ t like it. It takes up too much time and I really hate having to clean up after the meal. I can ’ t stand doing the washing up, drying up, and putting all the dishes and cutlery away.
Yes. That ’ s why we have everything on computer files. We don ’ t use much paper at our office. After lunch, I had to deal with a complaint from a client.
I see. What else?
Is that a kind of alcohol?
Yes, I do. I think we can compete. I think we can make a name for ourselves.It will be hard at first. But if we develop a good advertising campaign, I think we can break into the market.
You really think an artist or song writer is going to go through the trouble of putting subliminal or satanic messages in a song? Don't be so naive!
yes. It seems she can never accept a childless marriage. We had a fight last night.
Poor Ann. She did not love her husband at all.
I'll call you in a day or two, did you write down your phone number on your resume?
Forgive me for startling you with the impetuosity of my sentiments.
Well, most importantly the apartment is beautiful.
What I do is find the website of shops. Then someone from our company visits the shop and buys when they ’ re seen that the products are genuine and suitable.
That's very kind of you.
She's really pretty.
Well, I didn ’ t want to pay more than $ 520 a month.
I received an eviction notice from you, and I don ’ t understand what it means.
Dave, there's something I want to talk to you about.
Poor Femi. Taylor's death must have made her realize that she still cared for him.
How long is the tour?
Oh, so you're from South America.
We did, but since she started her new job, all she does is hang out with her new friends from work.
What's the fare for a single ticket?
Hello, I ’ d like to speak to Kate.
Yes, Mr. Smith, when would you like us to call you tomorrow morning?
Come on. Don ’ t cheat on me. It’s a long shot.
Well, all products have to go through five checks in the whole process. We believe that the quality is the soul of an enterprise. There fore, we always put quality as the first consideration.
Could you drive me to the bank?
I can also speak a little Japanese.
I'm going to take care of this and refund your money.
oh, Iris, It’s about the job with the PR company.
Thank you.But does it really look all right?
sure. Where do you want to go? Are you in the mood for anything in particular?
I don't think I'm going to get one.
I thought about what you said.
no problem. Did you bring any gifts back for your department?
I believe they are careful calculations on proteins, vitamins and calories.
No. He's afraid that no one will cook as good as his mother did.
That's fine. Could you tell me how much a return flight costs? I'll be staying three weeks.
I was thinking maybe 9 o'clock or so, so that we could get started before the heat gets too bad.
How do you celebrate Thanksgiving in the US?
I did it myself. I went online and found a lot of website devoted to home improvement. Then I went to DIY shop and bought everything I needed. I ’ m sure I saved a lot of money by doing it mys
7 is fine with me.
What musical instrument do you play?
I know it would be more expensive. I think I could handle it though. It’s that this dorm is so noisy that I can ’ t get anything done.
Oh no, I can't tell you. It's a secret. Say, why don't you go over by the lily pads and try fishing there?
But the lessons this semester are a little bit hard.
you ’ re right. By the way, did you hear that tom inherited some money recently?
About two weeks.
Bummer. I guess we're both out of luck.
Moderate exercise is really important for health. ' Life lies in movement. '
Yes. I am a bit confused. My sociology class is supposed to read a chapter in a book called Sociology and the Modern Age. According to the syllabus, the book is in the library, but I haven't been able to find it.
Yes. Sit down, please. How did you learn about our company?
Ms. : Do you have a question, Mary?
This is the excellent thing about DVDs.If your son starts to collect DVDs, they will last forever. They will never rot.
Certainly. Where are you now?
Good afternoon, sir. Would you like a tea?
Watch his bread, it seems to be delicious. He had a lot on the ball.
I ’ Ve lost my purse.
will that be all then?
No, I don't. What do they say about office romances?
Okay, I guess I'll cook.
My shopping life will be more convenient.
My name is Jeff.
Where do you usually do your shopping, Mrs. Lane?
My bad, I had chores to do.
When I was a kid, there was a weather who said there is no such thing as bad weather.
I don ’ t like going to the theatre.
I'd like to open an account.
Sure, what do you want to know?
It doesn't take much time. I'm used to tidying up my room myself.
Good luck. I'm sure you will do a good job.
Actually, I received that kind of training when I was in college.
You mean she bosses her husband around?
Thank you for your interview.
What does this word mean?
Is this the right bus, or not?
yes. Maternity leave is mentioned in the contract, but there ’ s nothing in the contract alout paternity leave. Do you offer anything to fathers?
We can borrow from a bank, the gross interest rate will be something like 7 %. With corporate tax at say 30 %. We are only paying on 50 % of this. There is still inflation to consider.
I'll let you know. Did you want to watch some TV?
What did you do last vacation?
What do I do after I get on the 268?
Totally cool colors!
What nationality are you?
The summer vacation is coming. Have you any plans?
Let ' s see. These books here focus on grammar, and those are mainly for conversation practice... Here we are. This book has short passages for students to read and answer questions about.
This looks wonderful, Madame Culot.
He's giving lectures on business at colleges.
I've got it.
it was a good game, but not good enough to watch again. Keep surfing.
Yes, quite right.
No. Only a few pounds. But my passport was in the bag. That ’ what I ’ m really worried about.
What would you want, coffee or tea?
No, we got no receipt, but we paid on the spot.
A meeting will be arranged to negotiate the relevant stuff.
Sorry, I am used to speaking in a slow pace, but I will try to be faster. What position do you want to do?
So, John, what do you do for a living?
He's coming by car on the twenty-fourth. He's staying from thetwenty-fourth to the twenty-sixth.
I appreciate it. Thank you.
How about the price and the bank mortgage?
Well, yes. I'll give him the medicine, too.
Yes. I Would like make a reservation to Huston for tomorrow.
Thirty minutes, that will be all right. There are still fifty minutes to go before the library is open. Look, what are they doing on the square?
Of course, I like flowers.
You mean I have to pay now?
A wild dancer dropped it on my left foot and said nothing about it. If I had drunk enough and I would have had the bold to punch him in the face.
Mrs. Phoebe, here are your ordered goods. Please inspect the goods now.
My present address is No. 21 South Zhongshan Road, Apt. 19, Shanghai. The post code is 220150.
Ah, where can I find old paper money and coins used before and after 1949?
Is this color OK, or would you like a different color?
Are there any interesting stories in the newspaper today?
as I hadn ’ t done it before, I had to keep referring to information I got from the internet. Doing the floor tiles took a whole day-from early morning to right through to the evening. The
Mr. Brown will have to call you back in a little while.
That's fine, but do you have your receipt with you?
It gives me great satisfaction.
That ’ s great. How much is it?
Great, I'm looking for a place right in that area. Your apartment sounds ideal.
There have been charges made on my debit card that I didn ’ t make.
Well, Pam Franklin lives next door to us. By the way, can I go to her house this Saturday?
I'd like to send a fax to Shanghai.
I finished off everything.
Look at the ice there hanging from the eaves.
Oh, sorry.But do you want to change it for another one?
Mom, there isn't any hot water
True enough, until the time comes that you need to take my money. I don't know where you're wasting your money but I think you need to take a look at what's really important.
Six months ' salary? Are you serious? That's incredible!
Have you ever been a student leader?
You honestly have no idea?
of course. There ’ s always much to learn. I got to know more about the real world.
OK, here is your permit ; enjoy the next semester.
Miss, would you like to try this free sample of our new suntan cream?
There's just one catch. Zina asked me to let you know.
What are you doing? Is anything wrong?
With the tax, your total is $ 32.42. Would you like to charge it?
You ’ re right. I ’ m being crazy! Ok, I ’ m ready, let ’ s do this!
Would you like to play golf with me?
Sure. We ’ ll be looking forward to that day.
Well, It’s like this, during your first year, you will enjoy this salary level, a year later, we ’ ll increase your salary by 20 %.
That's nice. They provided us with convenient choice.
This room is unacceptable. I want a new one, and I want a refund for tonight.
O. K., see you.
I'll get the flour out.
I see your point, but if companies didn ’ t spend money on advertising, no one would hear about their products. I agree that some form of advertising can be annoying. I don ’ t like it when people try to give you leaflets with information about products you have no intention of buying.
I am stealing vegetables at the Happy Farm.
Good. Right, that comes to $ 1,500.
Hey, Daddy, today I had really a fantastic history class.
he said that he would probably invest most of it. He ’ s got a well-paid job, so he doesn ’ t need the money to cover day-to day expenses. He just wants some extra money available for when he retires.
That's no problem. Is it cash?
I am. I just went to the travel agent ’ s and picked up these brochures.
Were there any animals in the forest?
I would like to pick a time to look at houses with you.
My mother used to make me take vitamins every day, but I don't take them anymore. Vitamins are good as a supplement, but they don't do much good if you don't have a well-balanced diet to start.
Yes, it's a good habit to have a life-long hobby. Those who practise calligraphy and Qigong always live longer.
Let ’ s see how your grades are this semester, and maybe I ’ ll talk to your father about it.
I guess the fire wasn't in the tool shed after all.It looks like the back of the house was burning.
No, I had no idea.
Yes, and it is 37 ° C.
Gee, how dangerous! I've almost knocked him down.
She was patient, kind, fun, smart, caring, and yet strict, too. I really learned a lot from her.
Hugh Young? Didn ’ t he use to wear a funny yellow jacket all the time?
But there's no hot water after 10 at night. Sometimes I like to have a hot shower before bed. especially in the winter. It feels good.
Anything? Do you really believe that we can do anything?
Not at all. He comes home and complains about his hard day at work. He expects me to do everything. He even wants me to feed him sometimes. Can you believe that?
Would you like to book a table, sir?
Hello, I really appreciate the opportunity to interview for this position.
I finished Young Primary School in 1998, and entered Xi ’ an Middle School that same September. I graduated from there in July of 2004, and that September I entered Wuhan University, where I'm studying now.
Please don't blame me, sir. Blame the computer programmer.
By telephone and in my name.
No. But I ’ m working on it.
That's good.
Six have been seriously affected, but the refugees are also migrating to several surrounding countries.
Thanks. It's a little tight. Do you have any in a larger size?
I'm sorry. I thought this was our stop.
I don't believe you can make it when you meet your Mrs. Right.
I was reading about how some people get tricked or drugged in their hotel rooms and have their organs removed! Then they are sold on the black market.
How do you want to your eggs?
Yes. And you?
What sales do they have today?
Yes, I want to a room for tomorrow.
The personal card, please. Is it possible to take care of this over the phone?
There are a few reasons why you failed.
OK, I'd like to try it today.
I really appreciated it.
I ’ m afraid I ’ m a poor talker. I ’ m not comfortable talking with the people whom I have just met for the first time. That is not very good for business, so I have been studying public speaking.
Certainly. Oh, you have a message here.
Why? I think It’s convenient and good.
This particular refrigerator is a very good choice.
Can I help you, Madam?
I made a reservation earlier this week, but I have to cancel it.
How many departments were there in your university?
Alright Steve. Your social security number?
Yeah, so far, so good.
Working conditions are very relaxed. You may work whatever hours you want, provided you get your job done properly.
I can be reached at 544-879-9087 until 5 p. m. today.
You know, now that I think about it, you might be right.
Just so so. But we can travel twice every year.
So the ' Happy Birthday ' song has been popular since then?
If you get sick, I'll return the favor.
Oh, I won't be back so early. The film will be over at nine. Can I have the key to the bicycle?
All the rage with whom? I never see anyone wearing these designs on the street.
Then I have to call another taxi, or I'll be late.
Fortunately, she's not seriously injured.
Oh, I am looking for an apartment. I prefer living off campus. I can study better.
I'll be there in time.
You aren't fat. I'll bet you'd look great in a bikini. How about this thong bikini?
Yes, it is!
Certainly, Mr. Robert. But can I have your plan?
I ’ m an IT salesman.
I am sorry to say that it's a little higher. Our agents in other areas usually get a 3 % to 6 % commission.
Yes. That's right.But children in Taiwan are very different from children in America.At least as far as studying is concerned.Many children in Taiwan go to special institutes after school.
Ok, you will be hearing from Mr Wood later in the afternoon then, Mr John.
Hmm.All right, I ’ ll take it, and this book on how to play the guitar as well.
I am sorry, we do not accept checks.
Not at the moment — maybe later, though.
Oh, do you want to play sometime?
Let me run and check.
You look hot and tired. Jack, have you been exercising?
Are you ready? Here we go. Say Cheese!
I'd like to have this cashed, please.
How much will you have to pay for rent?
That ’ s right. A few people go panning for gold in rivers.
Of course. Financing Link is a value-added service, and can be tailored to suit your requirements.
Don't worry about it! Making a new meal out of leftovers is almost an art! Not only do you save money, but you also get to be creative and have something different to eat!
Stereotypes? Like what?
Yes, she does. But she's working in Washington, D. C., right now. Her job is top secret.
Yeah. Even though the customs were brilliant, I didn't think it was as good as the first two. What did you think?
You can do that?
Yes, I have an add sheet.
How about this weekend?
When is the place available?
Yeah of course! Although, don ’ t you ever wonder what “ could have been ”?
That would be convenient. They might as well ask him to fix the electrical wiring. The circuit breakers keep going out all the time. It’s really annoying!
Well, I'll consider the possibility. By the way, when do I have to open the L / C if I want the goods to be delivered in June.
A lot. I probably got to moonlight for the rest of my life, but so what, It’s worth it. Come on, get in. Let ’ s take a drive.
These vegetables taste very sweet.
I'll do that then.
Yes, sometimes. I don't like working nights I have problems sleeping during the day.
In the front, please.
I certainly could.You ' ll get exams next month.
Would you mind waiting in the lounge for 10 minutes? I am sure I can arrange you a table then.
She must be very sad.
Most of it is. You should sign up.
Do you have a hotel card or something?
I'd like to. How do you like the hat?
You will have to just read it in the library.
Do you have a history of high blood pressure?
Do I only need to take that one drug?
How would you like your hair cut, sir?
I'd be glad to.
You see, we still have hurdle.
Yes Sir. We have your reservation. Could you fill up these forms, please?
Don't be discouraged. Just keep trying and you will find a job eventually.
You may rest assured that shipment will be effected within the time limits stipulated in the contract. But there is also one point I ’ d like to stress.
I see. And the quantities.
Come on. All of us are waiting for you.
Not at all. But we do need to keep it with us all the time.
Yes, or you'll be late.
I ’ d like to post this letter to Korea.
Actually, a friend of a friend.
Not until you have paid 10 percent margin.
Hi, Bob. I heard that you had passed your driving test. Is it true?
Yes, but I need to write it by next week.
If he didn't have any drug problems, he would have won.
Well, I want to let your boss know that she ’ d better hold on to you! You ’ re a hard worker!
Yeah. I have faith that he will help America turn over a new leaf.
You bet it is. And we got four thousand for our car space! Awesome!
A ETV? Are you serious? ETV?
Black coffee is fine.
Would you please make a list for me?
Why don't you read the local newspaper?
Good. Now, if you ’ ll just sign here, you can start work in 3 days.
I'm sorry to trouble you, but I'd like to ask when I will get a raise.
absolutely, I've highlighted all my strengths and the resume is clear and easy to read.
Yes, I'll have a steak, please.
First I want to check about the availability and see if you could give me more information.
Well... there is a necklace in it.
Well, I hope you let me hang out with you then. Maybe I can learn from you.
Sally, you look so corporate! What interview do you have today?
That ’ s it. You can get dressed when the film is developed.
Titanic? That old film? but I've seen it before!
What's on?
Let me have a look. It's mine. I have been looking for it, but just cannot find it. It's present from my father.
Fair enough.Keep up the good work.
What time does the museum open?
I allocate different patients with their consent to different nurses. And I supervise the primary nurses and help nurses carry out their work.
On the other hand, I think the other team won everyone's respect. The leader said they could have crumpled at the beginning, but they just carried on and never lost their cool.
I ’ m not sure. What ’ s the difference between them?
I'm in a hurry. How long will it take?
That ’ s really cool.
That ’ s great. Thank you so much.
And one more thing, smile widely.
Does it pick up any digital channels?
Does the newspaper say anything about casualties?
Ok, you name the day.
I need some medicine.
That ’ s right. That ’ s when accidents often happen. The Saudi government tries to limit the number of pilgrims, to reduce the chances of accidents.
I think mountaineering is an exciting sport, but a little dangerous.
We won the men ’ s high jump and the women ’ s 1500 meters.
It's my fault. So what can we do now? Walk?
Hmm... not so hot. They sell them here for about that.
Yes, you can take small sum of money and important items such as passport and keys and business documents and so on.
I ’ m Liu Yi. I ’ d like to speak to Mr. Smith.
I'm afraid I'm going to the gym for a workout.
Yes. I ’ d be delighted if you did.
Just a minute please. I ’ ll make a call to the HR office.
Can you book me a double room for February 22?
have you been given a better offer?
I must meet someone at the airport tomorrow afternoon.
Of course not, but sometimes the results make you think about yourself and what you do. According to the jealousy test, I ’ m quite a jealous type of person. Perhaps I need to control my jealousy.
I have apple pie, ice cream, chocolate cake and fruit cocktail.
I'm totally vibing with this musicians.
It ’ ll be too late ; you ’ d better take a taxi.
That's unfair, Mom.
Do you accept credit cards?
I have done a lot of reading comprehension exercises, and I also spend much time in memorizing English words.
Hello, Hong Lei. My name's Ricky.
Do you know where the visa office is?
Nonsense. There's lots of food in the refrigerator... What's behind your back?
I said I had been to the doctor the day before.
What ’ s “ pi ”?
Yes, he is, Your Honor.
Neither.The game ended in two all.
what are you watching now?
Here is the two dollars, will you bring me the receipt?
Almost. I have to get dressed. It's a formal party and I have special party make up!
I have a special party tonight, and I'd like to change my style. Actually, I ’ m thinking about a perm. My sister is getting married next month. I think that if I have a perm now, I'll look very natural by then. What do you say?
Just name it, sir.
Never do that again.
Yes ma'am, may I help you?
Excuse me, can you tell me where I can go fishing?
Again, I do apologize for the inconvenience.
Patulin will do.
Shall we sign this contract now?
I ’ m going there for a tour, too. Is this your first trip to China?
Oh, it's highly efficient.
yeah, I remember the neighborhood. Have you found a place yet?
Hello. Is Steve there?
What's the number, please.
There is house phone only.But you can ask the operator for city calls.
Ok, whatever. See, I'm putting it in the garbage can.
Let's see if we forget anything.
So let me show you some of our DVD players.In my opinion, DVD is the wave of the future.
Brain Locker? No, I don't think so. What does he look like?
Okay, now you really have to fill me in. What ’ s he like?
It wouldn't seem right if it started raining right now.
It's for you.
OK, Dead Man. If this doesn't start your engine, nothing will.
Where do you go for lunch around here?
I'll need to see your ID please.
I wanted to change around 5000 dollars. And you know the exchange rate.
Well, what kind of dessert do you want?
Will Mary and her husband be ready to leave for their honeymoon?
I am here on business.
Mary, can you tell me how you keep in shape?
Well I always hear it on the radio, so I started to get into it.
My car has broken down. Could someone come right away and check it?
Well, I own a house. actually, I ’ m leaving my dog there with my neighbors. I have a car at home, and oh, my job! I ’ m employed by Tornal as an engineer. Actually, I only have three weeks ’ vacation, so I have to go back to work at the end of March.
How about doing shopping this weekend?
Can I use the FAS terms?
Forgive me, sir, I haven't been told what the problem is.
Maybe you are right. But the major is not fit for me. I like architecture more than computers.
Sunny side up, please.
I'm not going in the wrong direction, am I?
Would you like to transfer money from that account into your new one?
Here you are. Have a nice stay here.
I need to see if we can get together today.
Let me see. I am terribly sorry, sir. That should be $ 18.
It happened in the morning. I just came home from work and found the lock broken.
Look at the answer sheet and compare it to your answers. Do you see any place where I made a mistake in grading?
I honestly think it looks great.
Oh, really? Where ’ d you find it?
I'm sorry. I forgot to show you the lid. It comes with the pan.
I don't need the full service.
And what's the cause of that?
For what time?
Does this title come with an increase in salary?
My name is Zhang Ming.Nice to meet you, Susan.
A table for two, please.
Reservation Center, Air China. Can I help you?
I have really bad poison oak and can ’ t stop itching.
Well, I want to draw out 4,000 yuan.
It is in front of you.
how long do you want to sign a contract for?
Moon cakes? What is that?
What? I sent you three or four messages!
All right. And here's my bankbook. Is that all?
And it's a long one. I have Monday off. It's Memorial Day or something like that.
What! Geez! How could this have happened? So what ’ s the bad news?
Cross the road and turn left at the other side. Walk along the footpath until you reach the traffic lights. You will see a shopping centre on the right hand side. Walk across the road and turn right after the shopping centre. Keep going straight for about 100m and the bank is to your left.
When can you give me the final decision?
So it's Mr. Peter, a table for six for the evening of the next Monday. It is Chinese food and you are coming at 6:30.
Hey, slow down. I'll tell you more while playing.
Ok, then you need to go to Tai Power Building Station.
I'll join a fitness centre. I'm sure they'll be able to give me more advice. There's one near my office, so I can go before and after work. I don't want to go jogging in the street, so I'll use a treadmill.
Just yesterday. I'm still getting used to it.
You look so excited. What happened?
We do need some change in this country.
Let me see here. Your eyes and ears look fine. Take a deep breath, please. Do you smoke, Mr. Smith?
My major was computer science when I was at college, and I am quite familiar with Visual C + + and Java language.
You can come in and renew them unless someone else has reserved them.
We have reduced emission of air pollutants in recent years, but cars are still a major source of them. Factories have become cleaner as stricter environment pollution laws have been introduced.
Yeah right! I ’ m serious! You should also cut down on your sugar intake as well. You drink carbonated drinks that are high in fructose syrup! It’s really not healthy!
I know a mover which has a very good reputation for their service. I ’ ll leave you their phone number.
I ’ m afraid a bit more than that. We need to order the spare parts, take apart your electrical system, fuel pump and engine and then put it back together again. You are going to have to leave it here for at least two weeks.
And anything else?
How can we develop a new brand image with no direction whatsoever?
Patent? Are you also learning something about patent?
Please ask him to give me a call as soon as he return. he has my number.
You said it. Love but on the sand will soon be on the rocks.
Let's speed up. We're going to be late again.
Well, what about the $ 50 you spent on a shirt? You could ’ Ve gotten something for less.
About seven thirty.By the way, could you also bring me tomorrow's papers?
Really, who started the argument?
All right. I'm afraid this green dress is too small for me as well. It's smaller than the blue one. I don't like the colour either. It doesn't suit me at all. I think the blue dress is prettier. Co
It's a little embarrassing really ; you see I think I've got a counterfeit note.
That's OK. I'm awake now.
Just a moment, I'll look up the rate for air-mail letters to South America.
Come on, Hugh! Tea is for wimps! Please, I need your help.
No. You are just burning yourself out these days. Have a good rest and you will feel energetic again.
I can't. I am really behind of my work.
If he doesn't change his attitude toward his work, I don't think a new job can make any difference.
Excuse me, can you recommend some places for us to go tonight?
I ’ m excited that Barack Obama is our President.
She is pretty serious about it. Her uncle is a mayor. She wants to follow in his footsteps.
thanks, that'd be nice. When's the next ice hockey game on?
it was. The hijackers didn't have any respect for human life not even their own.
A holiday, I hope! No, really, we are looking into some courses on motivational techniques. We'll add them to the list when we choose a lecturer.
Do you have any plans for dinner tonight?
Hopefully signing up for this Network Settlement Service will solve all of that. If you are sure, we can go ahead now, Sir. How does 10 am tomorrow sound, to get all of the paperwork out of the way?
I was thinking of a brown pin-striped suit.
I hope that it does rain.
Really? I thought you hated shopping?
Wow! Your calligraphy is very beautiful. It was worth the wait!
I'll call the lost and found office.
Chinese food is divided into eight big cuisines, such as Cantonese food, Sichuan food, Fujisan food, etc. Our restaurant is famous for Sichuan style.
That comes to H. K. $ 120.
I want my hair to be only a few inches long.
I don't like this movie. It's a bomb.
I found some coins that are not from here.
Let ’ s see. Okay, so 50 mg of Prozac, would you prefer this in capsule or tablet?
Why would you like to work with us?
I'm very sorry, sir. I'll bring you a cloth immediately.
I have a little problem, I'm overweight for my height. I think I should go on a diet.
That can be a rough job, you know.
Ok, well, when you put it that way, it doesn ’ t seem like a waste of time and money.
All right. What varietal is that?
Me too, it's so unreliable.
Yes. What's the fare?
Probably routine, dull work. Oh, I am much more enthusiastic if I'm given a challenge and responsibility.
Are you kidding me? It's going to be up a piece of cake.
Well. I like the Thom Birds best.
I'm so sorry. A lid comes with the pan. Here it is.
No. It’s only five minutes walk. you can ’ t miss it.
Have you gotten a parking ticket before?
Yes. I am interested in applying for graduate school in America.
I never thought about that, but you're right. What do you think we should do?
Umm. yeah! Right! I got the car started! Thanks for your help! I told you to fill the tank!
Thank you. Could we have the menu, please?
About nine years
OK, then, hope you feel better soon. Check your e-mail for missed assignments.
First you take some eggs and crack them in a bowl, and whisk them up, quite, so they're quite high and fluffy, and in a hot pan, and you need a pan that's that's kind of small, that the sides go up at an angle. You put some oil and heat it up, so it's quite hot, and then you take your whipped up eggs, or whisked up eggs, and pour them into the pan, and as it's cooking, if you take a spatula, and push the bottom layer of the egg, to the side, to the sides, and then to the middle, so the uncooked egg gets to the bottom of the pan.
I certainly have the will but I wonder if I've found the way.
I've just bought a second hand apartment and I'm looking to do some renovations. You know, a bit of decorating, some new furniture, nothing flashy.
This dish tastes terrific. Would you like to try a little? It is a little hot, but very good.
Don't mention it, let's go in.
Ok, there is no cash advance anymore for short trips. You have to pay out of your own pocket, so save all the receipts from your business trip. And then attach them to your expense account. When you get back, our company will reimburse everything.
I got a sandwich, some chips, and a soda.
Mr. : Here. Write your name inside the front cover. Remember that you must return the textbook to me at the end of the semester, so keep it in good condition.
I am glad I did not drive a car.
Thank you. How is the light now?
I'll have to check. Do you need anything else?
Is a home inspection very expensive?
Well, let's get together soon.
Have you ever had a foreign instructor in English composition?
My boss gets annoyed if we take coffee breaks. I suppose your job involves a lot paperwork, doesn ’ t it?
that's too bad. Maybe another time.
Oh. Yes, I ’ m ready to transfer.
Yes, your skirt is really beautiful, but you are applying for a teaching position. You see, your skirt is very short, and your make up is too thick. What's more, the color of your lipstick doesn't match your skin. As a teacher, you should be a little more sedate.
Shall I just trim it?
I've something urgent to tell you.
Take care and give my best to your parents.
That's coincidence 。
You can buy them either ripe or unripe. Unripe ones are hard.
Dan is on top of that. I think they are also getting the handyman to fix the bathroom toilet that keeps clogging up.
Yes, but I don't like the story.
Yes, I'm afraid you will.Altogether on the watch and the perfume you owe me seven pounds.
I understand, Mr. Carmichael. I ’ d be glad to make it some time next week.
I agree with you completely.
What would you like to drink?
Do you have his card? What's in his portfolio? Which firm has he worked for in the past?
yeah, I think so.
Could you weigh these, please?
You know, I often have to work till late at night. I need something to keep me awake.
Yes, I would. Thanks a lot.
I ' Ve beaning worked IBM for years. I am vested personnel file system, He is the after sale survise director. he such a nice boss, I like working for him.
I am knowledgeable and levelheaded.
Oh, good. Let me get a pencil and take down the information. Well, go ahead, please.
Oh, that will be great. Thank you so much. Please help me to double-check the name list. I have to make sure they are all correct.
OK. I'll go see the doctor.
No, thank you. I've had enough.
My rear bumper is messed up.
Thank you.You ' re so considerate.
Hmm. I ’ m pretty booked up this week. Let ’ s move it up to next week.
Good idea. We should also hold a series of presentations. We could have presentations on the history of the university, the courses we offer, and our links with other universities.
Sounds great. That's just what I feel like having.
Really? Where does he live now?
Certainly. As you can see, we have several three-piece suites on sale. Feel free to sit down and test how comfortable they are.
Sure, I'll be back in a minute.
That's helpful. Thanks. But what do you think about philosophy. I wanted to take that class this semester.
Yes, what's the problem?
Sure. By the way, this special price is only good through the end of the week.
Why? They keep going up.
I'm done.
Should each of us write separately?
The Sunshine State certainly is worth visiting. Come down for a vacation sometime. I ’ ll take you to Disney World.
I ’ m ready to settle the bill.
I ’ d like to apply for a personal loan.
We'd like a non-smoking table, please.
Would you like to Come to our barbecue?
No problem. We'll give you both calls.
I don't like feature films. I think sometimes it loses contact with reality. I like to see some documentary films. What kind of feature films do you like best?
John, do you have a minute?
I am sure we do have.
All right, all right. I am ready to go. Let's go!
Yes, we do. They're on the wall behind you.
You don ’ t look so good.
It'll take awhile, but I'm working on it.
Are you travelling in America?
Yes, I'm still working there. But I really find my job boring. I'd like to change my job.
What charge was made?
You must be Mr.Sellers. I'm Steven. I am here to see the apartment you advertised.
I'm taking two weeks now. but I want to save the other week and take it sometime during the winter.
He's a sad dog. He came to the wedding in jeans!
I can do either one.
Yes, it's Yao Lan. Room 406.
I got one the other day.
I ’ m so relieved that your ankle wasn ’ t broken! I feel just awful about this whole thing. I wanna make it up to you. Let me take you out to dinner tonight. My treat.
I like double-breasted garment with no belt.Could you show me some?
Anything else bothering you?
Oh, just one more thing, could you give me some idea about holidays?
I'd like to have a sightseeing tour in South Africa. Do you provide a package tour?
I watered all the plants.
There will be a live show of football tonight.
Did I? Well. Anyway, you'll get your raise when the economy starts picking up.
I'm terribly sorry. You know we are so busy today and we forget to sew the button back on. Please wait a moment. It will be ready soon.
Ok, Mr. Smith. Do you have any bags to check?
There have been too many unplanned shutdowns over the past few months. We'll have to make a few changes to the way we operate. We need to reduce our downtime.
Well, you get nine hundred anytime minutes, and you can also enjoy free mobile to mobile calling to other Tel-Mobile clients, one thousand text messages per month, and unlimited evening and weekend minutes. Oh, and we also offer a rollover option.
OK. I see. Thank you.
I was in a comfortable place, so really, It’s no problem. I am happy to see you. Did the rain hold you up long?
I ’ m looking forward to seeing you again. Take care.
Would you like to go to the theater with me tomorrow?
Just one. I noticed an item about flextime. Is that a possibility for me?
Altogether, it's going to be $ 12.15.
Let me check.Oh, oh! It’s at 3:25.
ok. I'll stay home this morning and rest, but if I feel better in the afternoon, I'm going to the meeting.
Can you name some terms of payment?
Of course! Everyday, there is a deadline to meet. Bosses watching and testing me all the time, not liking in college, handed in paper months later and tested on schedule. It is so busy. But anyway, I have trying my best to be a good employee.
Did it cost very much
Well, there's nothing very much wrong with you, I'm glad to say.You ' re working too hard and worrying too much.Do you take much exercise?
I need to return these books.
But we made it.
Did you hear about last night's blackout?
Oh, books, and music, how much we both love New York. Harmless, harmless, meaningless. Bouquets of sharpened pencils. Oh.
I need to book a plane ticket to London.
that ’ s great. Thanks very much. Would you like a cup of tea or coffee?
Hello, Mr Mayhew. How are you today?
What's wrong, Jerry? You look so upset.
I want to buy a V-neck checked sweater, and it should be tight.
OK. I'll try. But I'm not sure Federal Express picks up mail in this city. If that's the case, I'll send the package through Chinese express mail service.
No, it is not here. Damn it! I'm going to have to buy another ticket.
Let's drive off this road.
That's the very thing I want.
After six months, my college life will come to the end. The following trouble will be the job-hunting. That's really a headache.
I'm sorry to interrupt you. Please take care not to make a mess while you are selecting goods. If you don't want it, please replace it.
Is it the same in Korea?
Don't worry. All things are difficult before they are easy.
They're in the blue cupboard. Anything else?
Who's that tall guy over there?
Well, she'll probably just give me my invitation later on today.
Mr. Brown, are your children always kicking up a row like this? I cannot concentrate on my paper.
Sure, I've had the steak and the lobster before. They're both very good.
Tomorrow, I ’ ll cut the grass. Then the garden will look perfect.
Oh! I forgot all about it. Of course you can have it back, John. I'm sorry about the delay.
I am quite outgoing, I think.
Let ’ s cross here.
What ’ s the main idea in this essay?
External factors. I think the main external factors are political, economic, social and technological factors.
He says he's just arrived in Scotland. He says he's staying at a Youth Hostel. You know he's a member of the Y. H. A.
I have my own company that designs computer systems.
You ’ ll be paid a bonus at the end of every year.
Is your waist any better?
Lots of reasons I guess, unemployment is pretty high these days.
Where do I sign?
Why don ’ t we go for Teppanyaki tonight?
Let's go to the lake and camp on the south side.
That sounds ideal.
I think my arm is broken.
Not too bad.
Yes, I do, but today I went shopping and have only just come back. It is very nice to hear your voice, Bob. I didn ’ t know you were in New York.
Why don ’ t we down to the pool? It’s not too far from here.
The operation was very successful.
Certainly. The customer is always right, we are here to serve you. Is there a reason that you would like to return it? Did you have problems with our product or services?
Easy, I can do that with my eyes closed.Done.
I ’ m just going to keep going to PCC.
Do you have some questions?
Hello, madam, I am sorry for keeping you waiting so long. Now please follow me and I will show you your table.
Oh, yes. I've heard a lot about it. I'd like very much to try it. Where can I find it?
Did you bring that from home?
Stop talking about her. She gives me goose bumps. I never wish to be in her sight.
Please write the address and remittee on the express order and make sure there is no mistake on them.
How many workers are there on the lines?
OK, Devon, I've been putting on a few pounds and you're quite a lean fit guy.
Do you have any more skirts in this style? I would like to find a size larger.
I'm sorry, I can't.
Well, I know you do the right thing.
I preferred working with other colleagues when I worked in my previous company. I think teamwork and cooperation are very important. No matter how competent he or she is in a company, he can ’ t do without them.
By the way, a cotton came off your shirt you gave me the day before yesterday.
I think it was about 45 minutes long.
Get ready for the best meal of your life!
Just type in the number on the back of your library card.
Depends on with whom. He may be doing things on the sly, but he is honest with me. I trust him.
I'm a big fan of Snoop Dog.
Did you hear the news?
Then why does he let himself be lead by the nose?
I like blue. You see, that's the color of the sky. I wanna be a superman.
That engineers was lit!
Who's Ellie?
Here we are. You find us a table and I'll get the drinks.
Driver, bring me to the station.
I think something is wrong with mine.
Today I'll invite you to enjoy the seafood.Please make yourself at home.
When it comes to select a fund, you will always read “ Past performance is not an indication of future results ”, can you believe that?
But sir, I didn't drink at all.
I bought a sewing machine. I know that my friend likes making her own clothes, but her current sewing machine is quite old and has some problems.
Hmm... you're right. Well, I guess ' Terminator ' is an exception to the rule.
Then what ’ s your counter-offer?
Everything goes well, but I am thinking about quitting my current job.
We charge ten cents a copy.
I ’ ll say. I knew Sally would finally show her true colors. When she got her final test results back from Mr. Leo, she started yelling at him. You should have heard her. I ’ Ve never seen anyone get so upset before. To make a long story short, it seems that Mr. Leo failed her because he caught her cheating.
I ’ Ve researched the company and think I ’ m perfect for the job but I ’ m not sure how to get it across to them.
Did you enjoy your dinner?
What do you plan to do on Sunday morning?
Thanks. But don't forget that they have a vet appointment this Saturday.
I like spaghetti. Do you like spaghetti?
Hello, this is Mr. Morris Pitt. I'd like to speak to Mr. Bell, please.
But you ’ re crazy about him?
I will give you premium unleaded. Alright?
Mom, will you have time to help me with my homework today?
So how do you usually go about buying shoes, then?
Have you got it now?
Sorry, not tonight!
All right. I'II open this one.
Marry Lin please.
Sure, It’s Josh O ’ Neil.
Yes, I agree. The air here is much more polluted than in my country.
Excuse me, driver. Let me off here, please.
Hello. Nice to see you again. I heard you went into hospital for a few days to undergo surgery. I hope everything ’ s OK.
You're all set. That's a double room for the twenty-fourth, twenty-fifth and twenty-sixth of June, in the name of Hamlin.
They ’ re in the cabinet above the dishwasher.
would you want to live there?
I know, Grandma, I just...
( In the club ) Look at those people in the dance floor, they are so crazy.
Well, I'm looking for a place to live. David thought as you are a @ agent. you might know something is suitable.
Do you want conditioner?
Very well, ma ’ am. Oh, there seems to be a problem, it says It’s rejected.
I think of myself as a valued customer. What services can you offer me?
Well, have you heard of Peking Duck? it's a local specialty.
absolutely not! He's a cheater. I will never talk to him again. I'm over with him. He's history!
Don't get ahead of yourself. Fat boy isn't yours yet.
first of all, we'll tailor a work-out plan according to your physical conditions and your personal needs.
I really hope that your company could provide living places ; otherwise I have to rent a house to live.
What do I do after that?
I can't seem to progress up the career ladder no matter how hard I try and I have been here for 2 years already!
Oh, yeah. I'm glad you mentioned that. I think we need to hire somebody new to manage it.
Where can we climb it?
Yeah, my boyfriend plays the video game every time in class with me. Or I chat with my friends through text messages.
Excuse me, sir, but you have to put your bags here before entering the market.
Oh, yes. The ski slopes are well lit. It's really nice to ski at night. Why don't you learn to ski?
What size do you need?
American men are naturally taller than Chinese men. So even if I exercise, there aren ’ t many chances.
Are you sensitive to other things?
OK. I will talk to him direcly.
Yes! I agree! We could really use another one! I ’ ll get on that right away! What else would you like to order?
But I still prefer the pop music in the subway.
I'm sorry. I don't know.
It depends. So you must be careful buying second-hand goods.
No, there is an updated version, three minutes video date. I know an online dating website providing such service with a microphone and webcam, you can sigh for it. You can be face-to-face with a guy talking for maximum three minutes.
Yes, Sir. In order to get a credit card with us, you'll need to open a Current Account here. Could you please fill out this form with your relevant details?
It should be due in at 7:30 a. m.tomorrow.
Go easy. Overwork is bad for your health.
OK, let's say 6
Oh I see. So that ’ s why you didn ’ t come in?
Really? I never would have guessed. The criminals must only come out in the evenings, because I've never noticed anything strange when I've been at your house in the daytime.
Sir, you haven't been drinking by any chance, have you?
Would you love to introduce me to her?
Me, too. There are so many cheap but nice things.
How much is an airmail letter to Japan?
actually, I've got a wireless connection.
Certainly. We can transfer the money straight into your bank account here and then you can withdraw it right away. Could I have your Passbook for Bank-Securities Account Transfer?
And a company car.
Okay, let me take a look.
What are you so afraid of? Just tell her what you are feeling about her.
No problem. I ’ Ve got a really light week. Anytime ’ s fine by me.
That's fine with me. How much time are we going to have to work on this?
Ok. I understand that we basically work form 8: 30 to 5:30 with an hour-long lunch break from 12 to 1, right?
I want to feel that I am making a real contribution to the company, so I would like my boss to trust me with important work.
Oh look, they have some refreshments in here.
It was in our bedroom.
When does the library close?
I got your e-mail a couple of months back.
The post office rarely loses package. You can, however, request a rectum receipt.
You are really confident.
I'm afraid Thera isn't any direct light before Friday. What about a non-direct one? You have to make a change in Detroit.
Now that's a great plan. It's a date!
I want a chemise.
Wait a minute. There are some new terms for me. I can hardly follow you.
I start by listening to the song a few times and after several times I am able to follow the singer.
They're related to one another, yes.
That's great. I'm looking to borrow quite a large sum, though.
That's interesting. Let's hurry up, we should beat them in the first half.
The second day you take a four-hour city tour. In the afternoon you go on the famous boat cruise under the falls.
Yes, Chardonnay is a white wine, but I'm not sure it'd be your best bet. Chardonnay is one of the more fullbodied whites, and tends to be a bit oaky. I'd suggest that you go for something brighter, like this Sauvignon Blanc from New Zealand.
I do feel like an outdoor exercise. After all, we haven't had such a beautiful day for a long time.
Just remember to hold on to your ticket. You need it to get out of the station when you get there.
But we usually get a discount of 3 % to 5 % from our other suppliers. Actually, some discount on your prices would make it easier for us to promote sales, you know.
I'm going to take more pictures today.
Oh. Henry. I haven't seen you in ages. Come in. Let me take your coat. How are you getting along?
I like your positive attitude. How many years have you been employed here?
We plan to go to a forest in the suburb. There is a beautiful river there. We can do some fishing.
Rivers have created deep valleys and canyons like the grand can you.
Where are you going to live after you're married?
He says kick mommy, beat mommy, don ’ t want mommy, very quickly if I do something that he doesn ’ t like. You know, if I wash his face or change his clothes, things like that.
Sorry, sir. I came late because I had to send for the doctor for my grandfather.
My wife wants to take the children to go shopping, where is the best place to go?
OK, as I expected. How much will you allow me to borrow? I mean, I don't need a massive sum of money.
Oh, I didn't think of that.
Why don't you go sightseeing?
That ’ s Joanna. Joanna hopes to go to college.
Yeah, it was scary, but exhilarating.
Uncle Ben, how did the Forbidden City get this name?
Just keep track of everything and get it all back where you took it from by Sunday evening.
Not too long.Cut a little off behind and on both sides, too.
Hey, buddy. Are the fish biting today?
thanks. This is my power suit. I have a dinner date tonight.
Hello, this is Lucy from ABC Company.
I have made up my mind. I am getting a tattoo.
I will get straight back to you with your waffles.
how are you finding your new boss?
You try to put on a brave face.
Ok, here ’ s a list of chores we need to get done. I'll do the dishes and get all the groceries for tonight.You can sweep and mop the floors. Oh, and the furniture needs to be dusted.
There is no one here by that name.
Hi, I ’ m Paul. Could you show me the apartment on the first floor?
Do you mean that you ’ re self-supporting? I didn ’ t even know you had a job!
Well, we shall make it a secret between us.
When do you guys play?
Is there a way that I can be sure that the people in South america receive my package?
I am absolutely famished.
Are you sure? All the big cities have specialty shops, which sell all sorts of ethnic foods.
And I'd like to have insurance just in case.
OK, I'll take it.
Well, last night I went out with some journalists for a casual party, but I was overdressed. I wore what I consider casual - - an outfit of skirt, blouse, scarf, and medium heels... you know.
Don ’ t worry. We ’ ll just get a doggie bag.
Until the end of the week.
In 1639, it was renamed after its major benefactor John Harvard. Interestingly, JohnHarvard himself was a clergyman.
That is so nice of you.
Let's sit over there.
Thanks for the advice. I guess you ’ re right. It’s just hard to overcome my shyness. I really will try from now on. I promise.
I'm here to ask about a loan.
Great! I can't wait.
But our surveyors found the damage was caused by poor packing.
do you remember where you were for the terrorist attacks on 9-11?
Could you tell me what university you want to go to, John?
We have new room rates, sir. Will that be acceptable to you?
Sally, I ’ m tired of this Western food. I really miss my mother ’ s Sichuan cooking.
I'm not 100 % sure, around an hour ago I guess. I had it in the hotel lobby bar ; I used it to charge something to my room. I obviously didn't pick it up again.
I'm still not sure whether I can recover from it.
No, you can't. The bench is wet, too.
I was late for work because of them.
Well, It’s not like my parents want me to live at home the rest of my life. They said that It’s ok if I move back home to begin with, but they want me to find a place of my own after a year or so.
Yes, I will be there on time.
I have something really cool to tell you about! Do you know anything about online auctions?
We will provide you wit life insurance, health insurance, accident insurance, housing benefits, heating allowance and transportation allowance.
I started at PCC.
Oh, I think I know the place you mean. We ate there last month, right?
Why is a DVD better than a VCR?
Just kidding, Mikel. Why don't you come work out with me?
Thank you. Can I cancel my reservation?
A report says running red lights causes one thousand traffic accidents every year.
Wow. That's too much for me. Don't you have anything cheaper?
well, that's part of the problem. His probation period is up tomorrow and I don't think he's ready to pass.
OK. By the way, I would like to have this sweater washed by hand in cold water. It might shrink otherwise.
Yes, that sounds wonderful.
Yeah. But whatever the planes are, he always has an eye to money.
Yeah, maybe next time.
I was just hoping.
No. If you step on the accelerator pedal you can flood the carburetor and your car will never start.
Usually, I run to the Black Bamboo Park as a warm-up. Admission is free. Then I start my activities.
Oh, yes. I like that one. But it's too heavy.
Daniel loves the beach very much!
oh, Jake made a reservation at Friday's.
Oh, yes. We do have such a commercial. Sit down, please, Miss Liu. I ’ m glad to see you. Could you tell me about yourself first?
I don't care as long as it's a Chinese restaurant.
Yes, the code for Australia is 61 and then dial the city code and the number. Start with the international code which is 00.
I am an excellent communicator. People trust me and come to me for advice. One afternoon, my colleague was involved with a troublesome customer who felt he was not being served well. I made the customer a cup of coffee and invited both my colleague and the client to my desk where we solved the problem together.
It is said that The Hurt Locker got the Award of Best Picture. What do you think about this?
Your Rose is a fool.
And as for the kitchen things, do you want very high quality?
I also like variety shows, but sometimes the host lacks a sense of humor.
I see. So this is the bill then and the total is...?
Check and double check.
I know. Don't worry. Do you know what you should do?
How many chances have I given you? I don ’ t trust you any more.
Deborah had her baby last week.
What a thoughtful granddad! Do you have her account details with you?
Yes, it is quite reasonable.
Well, well, Mike.Fancy meeting you here.
Don't be silly. We have reached the age to take the responsibility by ourselves.
Can you show me the way, please?
It's all right. There are so many Christians in America that everybody takes it for granted that I'm Christian.
How do I submit an expense report?
I had a bad dream. I was walking alone in the graveyard, and suddenly all the ghosts jumped out of their graves. They began to chase me through the graveyard and shouted that they wanted my blood.
That's right, Sarah and Jane are both your cousins although they are step-sisters.
Hi. I ’ m here for flight 513 to New York but I thought I heard the paging system announce that it is canceled. Is that true?
Well, it won't if there no line at the pump.
Yes, Deborah and I are going to buy a new home in Woodlawn.
Honey, it's just windy and raining outside.
Let's just get both. Do you bring enough money?
Hong Kong again. I would like to go somewhere different for a change.
I'm doing the business online.
The weather has been terrible this week.
Very good, thanks.
We will have the carpet cleaned before you move into the apartment.
I think It’s wonderful to see people from all over the world taking part in such a great event.
have you been working hard recently?
Hello, could I speak to Mr. Wang, the PR Director?
It's 8 sharp by my watch.
Waiter, come back again.
The dressmakers said that is would be ready in two weeks.
Sorry, sir. Believe me, everything will be all right.
how about some dumplings? I just can't get enough of them.
Yes. I love facing danger and overcoming it. It has become part of my life.
That's interesting. Go on!
Oh.Jack, I have missed your sense of humor.Ha ha ha! Nobody else sees things quite like you do.It ' s your gift.
Yes, I wanna go to America for my vacation.
Well, I came to talk to you because I want to apply for a scholarship.
True. When I tell my kids to behaves themselves, they will make a face and slip away.
Where did you go to find yours?
Rose, is this you?
Then one hard seat, please.
Thank you. Well, if you ever pass my home, please drop in.
Really? When did that happen?
Ok... I'm just going to lay it all out on the table, What do you think of Vincent's management style?
I'm in a good mood today, actually. How about you?
It seems you have to take time.
They're blue.
Excuse me? I hope I didn't just hear what I think I just heard.
And no hijackers.
Do you want to borrow my coat? I have a black coat that would look smashing on you.
That is true. I'll list for you the requirements of almost all the universities. First of all, you need official transcripts of your undergraduate work, three letters of recommendation from your professors who know your competence, and the official TOEFL ( Test of English as a Foreign Language ) score ( It's usually 550 ). Then you need a financial guarantee, and an application fee of 25 dollars.
I can't believe it. I can't believe I fell into your trap.
Please tell me where your daughter's home is.
Listen to me. You go home now. I will call my doctor and have him go over. Ok?
No. How about going to karaoke tonight?
Oh, that's too bad. Work harder next term.
Alright, what's in them? They are so heavy!
Oh, that's ideal.
Alright and what is your name, please?
What do you like to do in your spare time?
I picked up guitar at an early age, maybe around 8 years old. Afterward, I taught myself by listening to some records of top players.
What What features do they offer?
I think It’s time for the government to take strong action. And people should try to protect environment.
No, certainly not.
Uh... that's Greek to me.
Yes, I think so, If you want to graduated this year, you've got to take a science course.
Thank you, I just tried my best. I am very happy to know you like it.
Another one sold. Do you see anything else you would like?
Well, um, sir, the company expenditures on entertainment and travel are out of control. Look at these bills for example. Just this month we ’ Ve paid over twenty thousand dollars for hotel charges!
I'd be glad to answer any questions you may have.
Do you know our major business?
Cut it out. Look at my smile, and it seems like the flowers in the spring. Right?
I hope that what they had to say was mostly good!
Is it really going to take that long? Will you rush the order?
You could use your wireless right here in our lobby.
I don't like to keep up with joneses.
Single ticket or return ticket?
You haven't had much luck lately, have you?
Maybe that's why he didn't show up at the potluck. Have you seen him?
They're all in order. If you just sign your name here, you'll receive your cards and pin numbers in the mail in about three weeks.
I can just enter the amount using the key, right?
How do I set up an email account?
Do you still remember the small restaurant at the corner of the street?
But we have only moderate mean at hand. If you can do us a special favor this time and allow us to delay payment, we'd really appreciate it.
Were I in your position, I'd go to America.
It's not time consuming at all.
Can I have a look at your letter of acceptance?
Thank you. Now they are playing a rumba. Would you have a try?
Okay, I'll do that later.
Because the houses look so nice at Christmas time.
Yes, I am. That ’ s right.
Here you are. Thank you, bye-bye!
Morning, Mary. I haven't seen you in a long time. What's up?
Just in case, right?
You do need to take some medicines with you. Just in case.
I'm taking a date to a restaurant, so could you please direct me to a good one?
I'm sorry. We can not regulate the air-conditioner. As soon as the plane takes off we'll be able to get better ventilation, and the temperature here will drop. Let me get a wet towel for you at the moment.
How many years have you been learning English?
Mm, so what are you going to miss about Japan?
These things are your responsibility, and you need to fix them immediately.
Well. Yes, but those people always start talking to me. I never talk to them first. Perhaps I'm not as shy as I think. Anyway, you're certainly not shy!
Yes. It is one of the Five Mountains.
Yes, sir.how can I help you?
No. I only wish that you could give me a definite answer to my application as soon as possible.
Happy Mother ’ s Day, Mom!
Two blocks down the street.
I see you have a coffee bar for a water cooler. The staff here must be comfortable. I think it really helps morale when people feel supported by their employees.
It's easy to make a quick breakfast.
Are they? In that case, I'll be glad to give your money back.
Yes, but I still think it could be better.
What stock do you want to buy and how many?
Excuse me, sir. May I go with you to claim my luggage? I am a stranger here.
I'll remember to do that.
Wow, I doubt that.
Welcome back, soccer fans. My name is Rick Fields and, as always, I am joined by my commentating wingman, Bob Copeland.
Nothing. I just tell you take care of it when you type, especially the address and telephone number of those new guests. You should make sure that it's no mistaken.
Well, this home is too big for me now, so I'm moving to an apartment that is much smaller. Therefore, I need to part with a few things.
Great, let's go.
Since the early 1960 ' s, there are horror movies about people who encounter frightening, unnatural situations, and serious films such as documentarist about events that actually happened, and science fiction movies about possible friture and future worlds. Some people have also enjoyed watching psycho-dramas about the everyday problems that people have.
This is our common desire.
No. Except for the rash, I feel fine.
May I show you to your room?
Have you been drinking?
Some Chinese food. I'm hungry, and there's a take-out restaurant near here. We can have them deliver and then watch the news on TV while we eat.
This shirt you gave me is not my favorite brand.
Do you remember me? I just had lunch here a half hour ago.
How does she cook the shrimp?
Where shall I register, please?
No, I have not seen the signs.
Yes. I'm sorry, but I've lost my passbook.
Let ’ s go to Chicago.We can have lunch in Chinatown.Then we can go to a ball game at Wrigley Field!
He was the top candidate.
Do you have a New Year's resolution?
sure. You know it has an online edition, too. You should go online to read if you want to read it now.
Where there are difficulties, there are ways to get over them. Hold on!
Did you promise me to get the bread?
It is very quiet and peaceful. This is what I want.
We need to think about what she might like. What are her interests?
Goodness me! What a choice! I think I ’ ll have a cappuccino please.
Yes, would you leave him a message to call me?
Yes, unbelievably cheap. Carlsborg is less than $ 1.
How long is your contract for?
Yes, it is. But I ’ Ve got a lot of work too.
All right. Can we make it another time?
Hello! Where can I buy an inexpensive cashmere sweater?
Hum, me too. This winter holiday was especially long. What have you done?
Good evening. How many people of your party?
Me too. Did you play when you were a kid?
What do you think of your own qualification?
She's in the hospital with my dad. I have to go back tonight.
Would you tell me something about your family?
How are you getting along with your studies?
Not at all. Go ahead.
Good. He is a man of high standing. I think we can grant the loan you need after some further discussion. But I suggest you borrow on overdraft instead of on loan.
Yes, it has. I'm looking forward to seeing you. too. and your new house. Uh... when does the party start?
I will. Actually, I am worried so much about the security of this community because my house has been burgled twice before.
It’s supposed to leave in 30 minutes.
Calm down, sir. What's your name and where are you now?
Hello, this is David.
I can't say I agree.
Hey, I've always gone hunting or fishing on vacation. I am sorry that bothers you.
It's two hundred and eighty dollars.
I really enjoy the beach in the summer.
Do you come from a country where they shake hands?
I also know they are given to other countries as gifts for friendship.
So would I. Look, it might be going to rain.
I am certain I am going to fail my English test.
So, your experience is as impressive in practice as it is on paper.
I thought you had an unlimited SMS plan?
Dad, I ’ d like to borrow some money.
I've got to go home and study.
I wanna register for this mathematics course.
Yes, can I borrow your pen for a minute please?
Maybe that could work. I need to know who will be driving it.
Hello, how are you doing today?
I was going west.
As a matter of fact, they are having a promotion right now.
Oh, he's fine. Kids seem to grow up very quickly nowadays.
Of course. We wash the windows inside and out.
Let's schedule the actual election times the week after the nominations. Doesn't that seem logical?
I have already learned a lot in the classroom and I hope to be able to make practical use of it in your company. My specialization at the university is just in line with the areas your institute deals with. I am sure I can apply what I have learned to the work in your institute.
Okay, let me brush you off. Thank you very much for coming.
I prefer the novels by Hemingway, such as The Old Man and the Sea. I like the simple words in his novels.
As a matter of fact, I am.
Muslims believe that every man who is able should go on a haj at least once in his life. Mecca is the spiritual centre of the muslim faith.
That's exactly where I was planning to go!
Could you show me what you've got?
Dose it cost anything to attend the public schools? Are there any restrictions as to who may and may not attend?
Yes, it has.
Hi, my name is Ted, what ’ s yours?
They are fragile articles. They must be packed in a proper strong box. Your light cardboard box won't do.
Well, they mentioned how people put away money in something called a 401K?
Mom, I'm starving.
But I didn't get the ticket. And it is said that they were sold out yesterday.
She said it was because we had very different ideas about life.
No, sometimes the test results aren ’ t clear and we need to do more to get a clearer picture.
You're kidding. The storyline and acting were outstanding.
Of course. I didn ’ t know that. I only know exercise makes bodies stronger. I should take some exercise then. Do you have any suggestions?
It is a small room, just for 4 people.
I'm sorry, but that's our only available time.
What's wrong with the photocopier?
Of course. Mary is our most experienced member.
yeah, I think the food is alright, it's not too spicy though it's a little salty for me. But you are Chinese, you should have known better.
Well, I couldn't get away from work early. And when. I got home I had a headache, so I had to go straight to bed. But I was over-tired, because I wasn't able to get to sleep for hours.
I like it a lot. It has a very funny beginning, I think. It attracts your attention the moment you begin reading it.
Take the right road and walk ten minutes. You will see the Star Travel Agency.
We are on our way. I think our first stop is Buckingham Palace.
Hello, Mary. What ’ s the matter with you? You look upset.
Do you have cheongsams?
OK.See you on Today.
Yes, and for the first time.
No, no, no, not at all, you were right on time. I was early. I hope I didn ’ t rush you. I ’ m glad for the opportunity to interview with you.
But you have to pay the fee for refund.
I think that's too late.
I have another savings account open already.
How are your wedding plans going?
Have you ever been a student cadre?
Just word of mouth.
Here we are. That will be seven yuan and seventy cents.
Karen? I need to go over a few things with you.
I am glad you can study something you really like!
Sorry. Were you trying to sleep?
Hi, Michael, how's it going?
Oh, yeah. Oulong tea is good for one's health. isn't it?
He should be back in about forty minutes.
Yes, I'm really excited.
Of house, what's the matter?
That ’ s great. Okay, from now on I would swim three times a week. I hope I can get rid of the weight.
Have a nice journey! Do give my regards to your parents.
Liu, two days later, you will be in England. Don't you feel excited?
Do you think that there's intelligent life trying to contact us?
So people can go and root for their old school team?
What's actually wrong with it?
What do you think about the teachers?
I'd like to work in a law firm to enrich my experience and put what I've learned into practice.
One cream of fish soup and two portions of prawns.
OK, thank you, Shirley. You are very helpful. I have another question. When does the Economic Law of China come into effect?
Mmmm, sounds interesting... gourmet chocolates, where are they produced? Belgium?
Okay, I'll take the roses.
May son adores my new hairstyle so I suppose it is worth it.
I will bring a big hat and apply a lot of sunscreen before setting off the beach.
The viewing was for saying goodbye, and I didn't even get that.
Anytime. Let me know how it works out.
Oh, then what would happen if there were pests?
What am I expected to do?
Ten percent! Now that ’ s hefty!
Great, I'm glad we'll be able to do business together. I'll have some quotations ready for you by tomorrow morning.
Hell with it! Nobody will give it an Academy award!
Now, let me have a look at you. I'd like to listen to your chest. Now breathe in, a deep breath, that's it Cough, now again. I want to examine your throat, too. Open wide, say ' Ah - - '
3,075. Our paychecks are 3300 combined. That means we don't have any receipts for 225.
Welcome back! How was your vacation?
Right. Then we turn left and walk up this small hill. The view from the top of the hill is worth the climb. We can eat a snack there.
Here's my license and form.
It says, Zina, I like how you rhumba. An admirer.
No, I'm not hungry.
I really wish Mom and Dad were here with us.
Good morning, everyone. We will get to destination in only one hour.
Could you give me an idea of how larger an amount you want?
Good morning.This is Mary.Can I speak to Anne please?
That's a good place to go at this time. How about this route?
I like it very much. My name has became part of me. I don ’ t want to change it.
How has school been going? You come home so late every night! You're really a hard worker...
You Americans usually have nutritious food.
Did I do well on my test?
That's right, and turn left at the lights.
hello! I was exhausted form studying, so I decided to read the newspaper to relax. Unfortunately, the news is so depressing. There has been another murder in the city center. I ’ m shocked that the pole
The bell captain will put it in the storage room. When you're ready to leave, you can claim your luggage from him.
To be honest, I have no idea about these things! But I'm sure that's alright.
That ’ s alright ,. I think I should be able to make it at one fifteen. Can you put me down for that time slot?
Yes. I would like to cash my travelers ' check. Here you are.
No, I don't know where to find one.
I told you already! I ’ m going to get my nails done.
Please have a seat. I know our employment officer has already given you information about your employee contract, but I'd like to go over the main details again before signing. First, you'llbe getting a monthly salary, with one month paid vacation after one year of employment.
Do you know that I'm checking out in about 30 minutes?
So, I understand why people eat moon cakes on that day.
Certainly. May I have your passport, please?
Is that Mr. Edna Kent?
What are your qualifications for being a clerk typist?
How can I forget my old friend?
What kind of insurance could the company provide for its employees?
I see. Can I sit down?
I ’ m fantastic!
No more. Thank you.
How did it go?
I laughed up my sleeves at him. He ’ s seen his girlfriend off at the airport and had lipstick on his face and did not know it.
I'm terribly sorry to be so late. I had an article...
Yes, I did. But I wasn't qualified for most of the jobs that I was interested in.
Sure. We're on a pretty tight schedule, but we should be able to finish it just on time.
Have you sent out invitations by our party?
You ’ re going to take courses?
Ok, please wait a minute. Can I have my food packaged?
But Laurie, how can you do well in school if you don't take more notes?
Thank you, Steve. You're always so encouraging.
Here is my receipt.
We could divide into five parts. There ’ s the northeast, which is mild in summer and very cold in winter. Then there is the northwest, which is largely desert. Tillet is famous for its mountainous climate. The rest of the country can be roughly divided into two parts. One is temperate-mild in winter and warm in summer. Then, in the south it is hot most of the year.
Do you really believe in that? If they are going to focus on something, they should do it on civil rights.
We're having a sixties party next week. Do you want to come?
Thank you for the dance.
I see. And what's in this bag?
Hello, who is speaking?
Susan has been down recently. I saw her this morning, she looked terrible!
Because the job I am doing in my present company is of no challenge, but I like challenge. Your firm is a young organization with many innovative ideas. It has been very successful in expanding market since its establishment 10 years ago. Working for you would be exactly the sort of challenge I am looking for.
When did this break-in occur?
I was thinking about heading to the mall. Do you want to go?
We will need it for Saturday only.
Yes.It ' s sometimes scary if you think of the tremendous amount of media we face every day.
Okay.But our baby has fallen sleep.
Actually, I was wondering what we should do if either one of us would like to terminate the contract?
He's swimming in the cold sea. He must be very strong.
Don't mention it. That's what friends are for!
Why? Do you have to prepare for your examination? Oh, come on, girl, relaxation is also very important.
Hey, young man, you are so deep today.
Totally not. Perhaps it's about our marriage.
For members, there is a small transaction charge, but It’s only 5 dollars per transaction. Any particular denomination?
Let me ring you up. Okay, sign here, please.
Wow, there are so many lanterns to appreciate.
it's just one exam. Can you re-take the exam?
Great. I would like that.
Would you like a drink?
Till the end of the month.
You need to sign the paperwork.
Hello. Green Trading Company. What can I do for you?
Then I ' ll pick you up at six thirty.OK?
OK, could you please tell me what your backpack looks like?
That sounds great! I ’ ll take you up on that invitation.
Let's get the table wares we need first, And then stand in the line.
Thank you. You ’ Ve been so nice to me.
You like it, huh?
Yes. They are over there.
Yes.We will need milk powder and bassinet.
I don't care how much it costs. I'm rolling in it.
Perhaps we need to have more babies! Tina gave birth to a baby boy yesterday.
( Laugh ) All right. You caught me in the act. I finally worked up the nerve to ask Diana out. I was just writing a note to put on her desk.
Not much better.Thank you.
Of course! Or are you still too scared!
You are always so hospitable.
How many seconds in an hour? 60 seconds multiplied by 60 minutes equals 3600 seconds altogether.
have you applied to any schools there?
Those drug tests don ’ t mean anything! He probably took some other drugs to mask the steroids.
Is he ok?
The ancient Olympics originated in ancient Greece.
I would never want to be a celebrity because the paparazzi would also be after you.
I'd like to speak to Mr Robert Smith.
Project Management. I was very interested in this course when I was a student. And I think it's very useful for my present work.
I live in the southern part of this city. I rent a house.
It's a curio cabinet. The only thing is I don't even own those kinds of little keepsakes.
This is Jones. Can I leave a message?
I'm all right, but my friend is seriously injured.Will you call an ambulance and the police?
That's a good idea. Why have I never thought of that?
And then I just sign here? You're right! It certainly is simple and extremely convenient.
What about some steak? This is a nice piece.
Yes. A few days ago I have no right to get a driving licence. But now I get it.
Do you have any certificates on computer?
Yeah, It's only for girls.
It sounds interesting, but I am not a big fan of TV shows. They're time consuming and don't have much depth.
It's no good. And I think spending several hours each day playing computer games is a waste of time. You might as well do something healthy and meaningful.
If you are in a hurry, you should take a taxi.
No, I'm not even halfway through my supply.
How long have you been feeling this way?
Yes, I ’ d like to do that.
Oh, I think she wants to do this thing in memory of her father.
How did you meet your boyfriend, Cindy?
Good morning, Mr. Montgomery. I've been sent over from purchasing to fill in for Clare Williams.
Duh! He's like the hottest and most popular guy at school! Come on, dad! Please!
career path? I'm not sure.
That's all right. What can I do?
He's after your own heart, it is important.
Airmail should take four or five days and surface mail should take about two weeks.
Let me see. How about 6:30 at the gate of the club?
Many people play sports in China, don't they?
I don ’ t really think I ’ m ready to throw myself down a river full of jagged rocks in a rubber boat or go up in the air in a wicker basket held up by an oversize balloon. What else do you have?
It says here that the maximum is 20,000 RIB. Is that flexible?
That makes sense. Who interviewed you?
So, for an additional 6,000 dollars, we get twice as many dolls? That still might be a little hard.Couldn ’ t you discount it further? We ’ Ve been pricing other suppliers, and this discount might
Very well. How long do you want the house? All summer?
Well, I don't like it, but I guess I don't have any choice.
Next you fill in all of your hours for each day and total them. Do you know how to show time on a 24 - hour clock?
Don ’ t worry about that. I can point it out in the store.
I have this list of stuff that I need and I only have half the dough.
Hello, I am Mr. Johnson at room 309. I would like to have a safe box. Do I need to pay for a safe box?
Yes, we have inspection abroad.
Please bring it to me on the rocks.
If I remember correctly, it's about $ 130.
Is it real gold?
Sure. How long is your vacation?
It sure is. The Grand Canyon is truly a masterpiece. No man could ever make anything like this.
Anything else you want to add?
What are the factors that have great impact on the perspective of this corporation?
After you've thought it over, get back to me and we can go ahead.
Excuse me, how can I get special discount coupons?
I hope you find a nice sweater.
Life isn't fair.
That's my buffer... I wanted to leave a little room in the budget, just in case---it's better to be safe than sorry.
Yes, it almost looks new.
Anything else I should bring?
Excuse me, I'm afraid you've parked in the wrong spot.
We? The day after tomorrow? What are you talking about?
I can help you figure it out.
Thanks. You know, I just noticed that these eggs are fried, and I ordered scrambled.
Oh, no.You should take the No. 14 tram.
Oh, they are fine. They are enjoying their retirement.
So how long have you know Jack?
I'm afraid there isn't.
Yes, I have this time. But If I don't understand a word or a phrase when you are dictating, can I ask you halfway?
but what do you think about people who are obese? What should they do to lose weight?
Excuse me, can you tell me where the post office is?
All that's left is to cook it.
Do you want to go to the beach tonight?
It's about the best we can do, Smith. We need to hammer something out today. If I go back empty-handed, I may be coming back to you soon to ask for a job.
Is that better now?
Are the galaxies in the universe moving through space?
You are not too bad as well. I also want to have a steamed lobster. It is really taste like heaven.
My favorite is to play computer games.
I heard you are going to move.
It's the new neighbor. I hate her guts.
yes, I bought some medicine at the chemist ’ s. I ’ Ve been taking it for three days.
My luggage isn't enough of a deposit?
So I need to do something too.
Really? They ’ Ve been together for a long time. When are they getting married?
Do you prepare some dessert for me?
Yeah, I hope so. Well, take it easy.
Yes. There is a large swimming pool, but it is only available in summer.
How was it? Were there a lot of kids?
Have a seat, please. Now, here is the mirror. How do you like it?
Do you think a private vehicle might be more to your liking?
And others directly from New York.
Thanks a lot for calling us. Could you tell me more about what you need us to do?
Let me see. I am sorry, sir. We will change another one for you. Please wait a moment.
I've been feeling under the weather recently. I caught a bad cold last week, and I still haven't got over it.
I'm awfully sorry, sir. I do apologize. Room 908 is at the end of the corridor. It's possible that the noise is heard early in the morning when all is quiet.
I know what overbooked is, I just don ’ t understand how that could happen?
daisy ’ s in hospital too. she got food poisoning last week. She thinks she got it from some bad seafood.
No, we have five persons.
No. I transferred here from a different school.
Ok, under this contract, we ’ ll supply you with 600 dozen T-shirts, S, M and L equally assorted, at USD 100 per dozen, CFR London. Shipment in July. Payment by irrevocable sight LC.
How do you spend your spare time?
Yes. They usually do it.
well, my boyfriend was supposed to call me last night, but he never did.
No. But she taught me last term. How long have you been here?
It's getting cold.
Would you fill out this form, please?
500,000 RIB. Do you need me to give you my account number?
fine. How are your term papers?
would you like to learn to tango Donar?
Isn't there any way we can get central air conditioning in this building?
7:30 p. m. performance, please.
Flip it to channel 9, will you, Janet? There's a big basketball game on in a couple of minutes.
... Can you start next week?
Great! That ’ ll be ahead of schedule! Good work.
I've been missing you like crazy.
Umm hmm.Do you have a diver's license?
I want to get my car washed.
I don't know... Hey, do you think I could borrow your car for a few hours?
Yes. I have to change a room.
It's very simple actually. You can go to the service centre and have your name and job interest resisted. They will give you a call if any job comes up.
Well, they have it too cold in here. I want to be warmer. I won't be able to sleep.
Will I get notification that I qualify for unemployment?
Wow, this is the famous Empire State Building.
Yes, we are. Could we have the check, please?
Oh, I see. I'll have to sink about it.
I'll check it for you. I've found it. Is this yours?
( A stranger stops to help ) Everything OK?
My name is Phil. What's yours?
Forget about it.
Ok. Please go ahead.
Great. Thank you very much.
Look, Vince. I didn't mean to step on your toes, but we need to be decisive.
That is the result of our hard work. Well, what annual quantity would you suggest for the new agreement then?
Don't open any of my forwards! I got a virus!
Fine. Let ’ s meet this afternoon. I ’ ll draw you a better picture of the situation.
The hardware of computer is basically all the concrete things you can touch with your hands and see with your eyes.
absolutely. Every time when we do the reports, we love making some beautiful posters to emphasize our theme ideas.
It's only $ 20.
Mr CK Chen contacted me this morning and asked me to come in for the remittance.
Charles Dickens.Actually no one can parallel him in writing.
What did you do for your last move?
As a leader of police officers in charge of the whole country.
I will never go out with him anymore.
Not only does it centralise management, it also increases the efficiency of funds. We have testimonials from various companies who are very happy with the service.
I ’ Ve been to Qingdao before, so I ’ ll choose Dalian. I've heard that the environment there is very good.
For the past eight years, I have been working in the banking industry. I have a solid understanding of accounting concepts, an analytical mind and a strong attention to detail. I've had a lot of customer service training and experience, and I have been told that I excel in this area.
do you have s second?
Where is your wine list?
Well, I've never heard of a little girl that didn't love Barbie dolls.
Good afternoon! Can I help you?
Yes, I paid my fines.
Isn't “ frappuccino ” Italian, too?... and heat me up a panini.
Surely not. Life in the university is fun. Why did you ask?
How about pizza or maybe some fried chicken! Better yet, let's order some hot dogs!
Hello, my name is Xu Hua. I'm from Beijing.
There is a charge on here that I never made.
It's really going to be fresh all the time.
We are interested in cloth made in China. The clothes are sold very well here. We are a big location supplier for the northeast market here. I'm thinking that we'll have some business opportunities.
I apologize for everything disturbing you. We will give another room to you right now. Please wait a moment.
The cement arrived late but don't worry, I'm confident we can still meet the deadline. The crew is on stand-by and as soon as the concrete has set we can get started again.
Well, I'm staying at the YMCA at the moment. I'm looking for somewhere more permanent. Do you know of any good places?
That ’ s right. Another thing to remember when you are surfing is that you can add a web page to your list of favourites. Your computer will remember the page and you can return there quickly next time
O. K. Your name please?
Take it easy. The time for slow dance is the middle part of the party.
I am fully satisfied with the terms of this contract.
Have you graduated now?
Strawberry cake as dessert, please. By the way, could you serve my main course without garlic and put less ginger in it.
Oh, so you're a frat boy now, huh?
Well, you asked for it. Why don't you put on an Elvis song for him? He loves ' The King '.
Look, traffic jam again!
He took the money and tried to get away.
What ’ s the score?
You can see the doctor of your choice then, and we will see you at your scheduled appointment time.
Many of my friends shop at outlets.
that ’ s unless there is a traffic jam. It could take three hours.
How is Rose now?
I'll have sole, then.
Do you think you can send somebody over to fix it?
I have some I can bring from our place, and there ’ s some more out at my parents ’.
Yes, I need a wake-up call tomorrow at seven thirty.
Hey! Man, put your earphone out. I said which song you are listening to.
Say, I like racquetball, too.
Hello, I am going to the store to buy some fruit.
Well, There're two bedrooms, a sitting room, a kitchen and a bathroom.
Congratulations. How lucky you are!
Give me a break. You don't care about the colors. You just like the hot babe on the cover.
Yes. Oh, wait a second, please. What about a lid?
We will pay by collect on delivery.
I sure do.
That's interesting. What does it do?
I wasn ’ t serious, because Obama got elected.
Hey, I'm hungry. How about you?
You don't know where you want to look for one?
Can you help me plan the office party?
Sure. I thought people only showed off pictures of their new babies, not new pets!
Sometimes we even spend hours discussing our collections.
Where do you work?
I ’ m watching TV.
Is it too late to mail the Continued Claim Form in now?
That's right. what's the flash memory of your old mp3?
It was great meeting you.
Indeed, I agree that is not a good start. How about the meeting? You missed anything important?
What ’ s stopping you?
Thanks. That would be really helpful.
I like red.
Well, I will text it to you. Thank you, bye for now.
Get a hold of yourself, Bruce. You'll get over her eventually.
Why did you ask me if I wanted some?
Certainly. I would recommend ' Songshuguiyu '.
I bet you eat a large evening meal, then sit and watch TV or read a book. Then instead of burning off your energy, your body stores it as fat.
Do you know what kind of salad that you want?
I had a terrific working relationship with my boss, even though we are very different people. Because I've had a number of bosses, I've come to realize that to make things work, you have to understand what's important to your boss. Then you have to do everything you can to support him ( or her ). It's natural to think about your own agenda first, but if you help your boss, Ifs likely to move your agenda ahead at the same time. My last boss was great in that regard, she appreciated my efforts and rewarded me when I helped her accomplish her goals.
Oh, I see it. Thank you.
I'm so sorry to hear that. But this is a good hospital. I'm sure they will do whatever they can.
Excuse me.Could you please tell me where the train station is?
I'd like to buy a watch.
I am just doing what I think I should do.
You'll knock yourself out the way you've worked.Why don't you slow down?
I haven ’ t been able to get a good night ’ s sleep lately. I ’ m exhausted!
Tell him I was asking about him.
That's not all. They use them! Every night men, women, children all out there till 3 and 4 a. m.
Yes, what a wonderful day! The sky has cleared up in the end.
Thank you, Ma ’ am.
Yeah, it's near a bus stop.
Could you please tell me when I get to the Central Park?
Why don't we go to the 7:30 show? It is convenient to us, I think.
Acknowledgments play a necessary part in the interview.
But there are only two more days until the bidding closes!
And second... Well, I'm not sure if it's normal.
That's too little. Well, I'll come down to 120 yuan.
No sweat! Think nothing of it.
How about $ 900 a month?
Well, I ’ m learning how to use math in the business environment.
One moment, please... Yes. There's a flight at 16:45 and one at 18:00.
Two of my classes occur at the same time.
OK.thank you.
Yes, I'm very fond of seafood.
Yes. It was so crowded. I'm worn-out. Let's find our seats.
Don't forget about the dessert.
to be honest, I think classical music is too complicated for me.
Good, as long as you understand that.
I did that already, while I was waiting. Also, here's my card.
I'm studying English, math, and history. My major is English.
You must be pretty excited about your trip to Europe. When is it that you are leaving?
Number 7 and 9 of the Row 11 in the stalls, aren't they?
Where are we headed now?
Hi Jane, can you let me know the best way to get to your house this evening?
I like company.
Very good. Anything else?
I love it! I used to always want to drive a green jaguar. Is it in good condition?
Fine! Get the stupid thirty dollar crayon!
Hey let's go out tomorrow night. The Ram Bar and Grill is having a special on pitchers.
I think the quality of the photos will speak for themselves.
I don't like green apples.
I'd be glad to, sir. But may I ask what line of business you are in?
I was surprised to see how few people you have on-site. You provide a wide range of goods and services but have a very small workforce.
Umm. I think I ’ ll just stick to my old job and save myself all the hassle of trying to start up a business!
I have no plans on cooking tonight.
It's a wise thing to do. Art will do a child a world of good.
How about the matter?
Sorry, turkey. I have already got dibs on the TV for tonight, remember? And I'm watching ' Disco Fever ' on channel 6.
But look, it's so sunny out.
No, I just started working here at IBM, I am in the sale department.
Ok. Let ’ s go!
You ' re scared of spiders? I actually have two more phobias. Acrophobia and glossophobia.
Mangoes. What are they?
I might make nothing even if I stay. For that kind of risk, I want to get rich.
When are we leaving for our field trip?
Yeah. I can live with it. It’s great to be living alone.
Oh, Thank you. But how do you spell it?
What do you have to do?
I ’ Ve studied home decoration as a hobby. Could I make some suggestions?
Well, we can use public transport instead of taking our cars for a start.
How was the party last night? Did you enjoy it?
Just about half an hour ago.
Yeah, uh, it's outside. Listen, I really have to be going now.
Yeah, but that's not why I am upset. I just found out another guy got a promotion. He doesn't know how to do anything. He sits there and kisses the managers butt all day long.
Oh yes, I know which one you mean. I have never been there, but I looked at their menu once and it did look good.
Nothing! Anyway, you ’ re right, there ’ s no reason this has to be nasty.My lawyer tells me you ’ Ve accepted our alimony proposal and the division of property, as well as the custody agreement - I keep the cat and you get the dog. So that ’ s done... finally.
You were showing respect and admiration for them.
When do you want to have the open house party?
It's 2135-3678.
A good suggestion for you. You need a holiday.
Remember what happened last time?
I only have my household register.
Trev, are you OK?
A pound of ground beef is $ 2.48.
Ew, Danny, gross!
And would you like to order now?
Thank you. How much do I owe you?
Shouldn't we make an appointment first?
So cool. Someone gave me this flier at the exit. What's it about?
I don't think you can. In China, our currency is not freely convertible yet.
It says No smoking here.
The number and expiration?
Yeah. Look, other kids are coming this way.
What's the matter?
I mean in the library, or in some information center.Often the university hires foreign students for part-time positions.
Oh. Can I take a message?
I can ’ t control the temperature.
What did you say?
Yes, electricity is not included in the rent.
Have you even thought that far ahead? I mean what country would you like to do business with?
Hi, is that Jason?
Cockroaches, sir? That's unbelievable.
That's right.Now this one looks alright? It's a detached or do you prefer this one? It's Sony.
What is it? Tell me! Will it work for Lester, too?
How's work?
I see. Well, keep up the good work. See you later.
That's a bit more than I wanted to pay. Can you cut the price down a bit?
Great! This is our secret! If you see my wife, say nothing to her about this!
I didn't know that. How much does it cost to subscribe?
Are you free tomorrow night?
Yes, you are doing great.
Does the room have an Internet connection?
If that ’ s the case, then why did you leave?
My granny is such a kind-hearted person. She is willing to help.
Isn't that great? That is coconut ginger chicken with rice.
Why don't you go over the resumes again? They might help you decide who to hire.
Life's so boring.
I know where that is at.
Me too. But what are we going to do? I have been on 4 different diets and I can't seem to lose weight.
OK. You'll have to pay duty for the whisky.
In 1978. I went to college here.
The procedure is really simple and convenient. All you need to do is fill in this Loan Application form.
Excuse me, have you got any laundry? The laundryman is here to collect it.
Perhaps if you would be kind enough to tell me the problem, sir.
We'll discuss this when you place your order with us.
My hair is kind of dry and brittle...
Well. Good for him.
Let me see your library card.
Work is kicking my ass. I'm so stressed. Let's go grab a drink.
Alright. That's a good idea.
Hello, my name is Bill Martin and we have a reservation for party tonight.
Mmm... to be honest, I ’ d rather go for a pizza.
Well, I like to play the piano.
Well, don ’ t be late. I ’ ll see you on Friday at Helen ’ s.
How much is it going to cost?
Yeah... I know. But I'm sick and tired of all the office power struggles!
No kidding! I'm 16, too. We should definitely play together some time. My name's Bob.
Hi, I have a doctor ’ s appointment scheduled with Dr. Smith, and I need to change it.
Yes, I've got to work overtime.
Would you like to have a perm?
Hi, Robert. What happened to your face? It looks swollen.
Can I take this bus to city center?
I'm sorry, it was too cold, and my car couldn't start. I had one to the garage with the heater. I tried to call you, but you couldn't get connection.
I hear that Helen does not relate very well to her husband.
Oh, I am not sure I even want to look at this house!
What ’ s your new job like?
There is a large canyon, vast grasslands, ancient forests and mountain lakes.
I believe we met at a concert last year. I'm Taylor.
All right. May I have you name, please?
I'd love to. Thanks.
Can you accept a check?
Much as I wish to but I really can ’ t. I've already booked the flight.
I like those too.
surely it is. Getting enough sleep is also crucial for fitness.
May I suggest you consider buying him a DVD player instead?
He is in his bedroom. He has been in a bad mood after school.
Just a minute. I'll check if there is any availability. I'm sorry, sir. There isn't any table left for 7:00, but we can give you one at 8: 00. Would you like to make a reservation at that time?
I have an appointment.
OK, I will remember.
We sure can if you want us to, but the charge will be much higher.
It's a little sensitive, actually. I need to get hold of some money, and quickly.
Well, Mr. Brooks. I ’ m sorry, again, for the delay, but we should have everything completed by the time you get back.
How about here in Beijing?
Time sure flies, doesn't it?
I am consistently impressed by athletes.
Do you know Abraham Lincoln?
do you think you studied enough for the exam?
I need another savings account.
Your company has a very good reputation, and I am very interested in the field your company is in.
I look forward to more of the conference.
Excuse me. You can't leave your car here.
Ok! We'll definitely go to visit your company.
They're only $ 20 a dozen.
Wow! It's just what I wanted!
Do you believe in horoscope fortune-telling?
I absolutely love making mousaka, which is a Greek dish with eggplant. But it takes a lot of time, so I don ’ t often make it.
Have you given the puppies anything to eat today?
In the summer it gets very hot. The temperature is between often 37 and 40 centigrade. When it is hot we often get rains. The winters are drier.
They are. I read a story about a dolphin saving a A from drowning in the sea.
Sure. But everyone loves to be beautiful. Hey, do you think this pair of sunglasses matches the handbag well?
Amenities? What do you mean by amenities, sir?
He ’ s my grandfather, and he never really liked you anyway!
Well, it's listed on the electronic board on the left. We cash it at present traveler's check buying rate.
No, not those. The ones on the shelf.
Mr. Smith often talked about you.
Hello, and welcome to IBA. Which service do you require?
Did you hear? The state is thinking of legalizing gambling in our city! Soon we are gonna have amazing hotels and casinos here which will be good for our business!
Sounds fun. Anyone I know?
Yes, I need to buy a computer for this semester. I was told it is cheaper to buy computers here.
See you. Have a nice day!
No, but I do like jade bracelets.
Hurry, ok. It's dark out.
I don't care what the best part is. Whatever you say won't change my mind. I'm not buying anything!
You bet. I used to take a whirlpool almost every night back home.
Let's have seafood tonight and then go see the new movie at Mall Cinema.Betsy told me it's a beautiful love story and I shouldn't miss it.
Don't forger to come straight home after school.
If they don't think this is fun, they're not meant to be our friends.
ABC Rent-a-Car. May I help you?
I'm sure a spot will open up soon.
How much is the fee?
Just look at the screen here. It'll give you prompts, you see? Now you need to enter your PIN number, then press ' enter ' to confirm it.
Good evening, Pizza House. This is Marty speaking. May I take your order?
Well I ’ m definitely a team player as well as being highly self-motivated. I believe this company can fulfill my long-term goals and offer me great upward mobility. Therefore you will find in me
Okay, I'll ask Bob to cover it.
Oh, I just can't forget it.
Generally from the college
That is my work, i will try it.
Yes, it's so popular that it's sold out as soon as it reaches the bookstores.
She's always bothering me. What should I do?
She's 42.
Have you gone to school today?
Yes, thank you so much.
No, I won't. I'm going to skip TV tonight and work on your chess game with you if that's ok with you.
OK, I am going to the hotel to pick you up. See you tomorrow night.
And what's your name?
But I can't just slow down.
How are they get paid?
My front window was broken.
I must say I think that is very odd. Are you absolutely certain it was her?
Steven, would you like to go dance with us tonight?
What kind of rooms do you want?
Does your wife work?
Sorry. What shall we get for her?
We have steamed chicken, braised pork and Beijing roast duck and so on. Here's the menu. What would you like to have?
Sure, I'll just go and get it now. what would you like to eat? Some soup?
that would be wonderful. Thanks!
Hello. I called earlier in the week and spoke to someone in the personal loans department about an overseas study loan. She said to come in as soon as I had the chance, as this must be done in person. I'd like to apply today.
I like this T-shirt. Would you like to help me look for any skirts that go with it?
I feel kind of stupid.
Yes, I was.You work for 3M, right?
Not right away, you need to decide what it is you want to do. The next thing is to select the service.
They take care of a lot of things.
doctors are so woke.
It's hard to get tickets for the movie.
Have you missed a court date?
Thanks a lot. I'm so touched.
I'm happy to hear that. Now, would you tell me where it is?
No, listen to me. I always regard you as my best friend. I admire you, and of course you've helped me so much. I should thank you.
Lucy, where are you going?
It is hard to come by in life that you experience this kind of comfortable!
There are many lakes and rivers in your country too. We also have many rivers, but only a few lakes.
I don't want coffee. I'd like some orange juice.
It's only the rarest coffee in the world! Didn't your momma teach you anything when you were growing up?
Oh, this silk carpet is really beautiful. Look at the pattern, and how delicate it is!
But I'll miss the news. It's important in my business to keep up with events in China.
How about the lunch break, Lucy?
Would you please charge them on my bill?
But what about the indirect ones?
No, thanks. Ah, yes! Can I have some more juice for the minibar?
No, but I'd like to get something typical in this region.
Could I see your ID, please, sir?
No, you must stay! I swear it, and the oath shall be kept.
Why is it relatively expensive?
Turn the chair I can see myself in the mirror.
I don't get it. I'll go and have that doorman talk to you then.
Well, we still have about 15 minutes.
I can't agree more, honey. We need to get away from work from time to time.
I wish the teacher wouldn't make us read this book.
Not for me. It is already late. I can not fall asleep after drinking coffee this late.
Well, everything we've discussed seems to be here.
Hi, is that Li Ling?
Do I need to pay to go into the personnel market?
Of course! I bought two copies.
Well, it's a long way and there is roadwork near Broadway. I am not sure I can snake it in half an hour.
Yes. We need to put the money into long-term projects rather than wasting it on short-term ones.
American Airlines has a flight leaving at 9:25 a. m.
How ’ s your little girl, Debbie?
I'm going to Beijing early tomorrow morning. And I'd like to request an early morning call. Will that give you much trouble?
Are you telling me you're not going to meet with me?
It's when someone takes a look at another person's palm to tell the future.
Duh! I would say yes! Eric is the most popular kid in school! Okay, my turn. What would you do if you won the lottery?
That cup is for a urine sample.
Kara, would you be interested in going to dinner again this Friday?
No, we aren't. We're going to help Mr Smith to plant some flowers.
I am sorry you don't like it, sir. But that's just the special point of the dish.
I didn't notice. I don't really even know what I ate.
Okay, Okay.You can trust him. I was just trying to give you a hard time.
Most people do when they travel long distances.
I see. But can I understand the instructions? I'm a foreigner, you know.
Mr. : The school parking lot is not big enough for all the school buses to come in at one time. So only half the buses come in first to pick up the first wave's students.
Yes. I went to Hawaii on a vacation with my husband.
Let's go quickly.
Can you tell me something about this balance sheet now?
And how about Kyoto?
What do you think of the lawyer's speech?
at first, she was quite critical of her, but now that they ’ Ve been married for a few years, she ’ s starting to accept the fact that my father divorced my mother.
I don't think there's any excuse for his acting in some parts.
Well, my mum lost her job yesterday.
Where do you want the money to go to?
Ok, see you then, bye.
There are many famous places such as Robson Street, Stanley Park, Gaston, Lion Gate Bridge, The Vancouver Art Gallery, and The Canadian Crafts Museum.
Hi, Don. What a surprise!
That's because we have a strong lock.
What is the cost?
My vote is my own private business.
So it won't work, old buddy. They'll see that I'm not you. Sorry.
All right. They ’ re due back next Wednesday.
Well, not in so many words. But I know that productivity is a big issue for him. Oh, he said the usual things like “ Keep up the good work ” and “ Thanks for your hard work, ” but he also said that he's thinking about bringing some employees into my department. That, to me, means he's not satisfied with what I've been doing.
Very carefully, that's when I found the problem.
He has been keeping bach after divorce.
I certainly can. If I can get some from the butcher ’ s, I ’ ll cook them for you.
That's fine. By the way, do you quote FOB or CIF?
I said you are sure to like them. There is the Grand Parade Of Ants Carnival in a few minutes in the square. You will experience a dream of fantasy.
I know. But attending Miss Li's class is just waste of time. No more than one third of her students will go to her class.
I look forward to more of vegetarians.
I eat more fruits and vegetables and limit amounts of fatty and fried foods.
Yes, because a real man doesn't need Mom to worry about him so much. He can do things by himself.
Which child is this?
Sir what's the boarding time?
Is there a lot of crime in your city?
No dessert for you unless you eat all your vegetables.
Well, you have to wait in line like everyone else. Besides, you should let old people on first.
Can you spell that, please?
But you know that California weather is really unpredictable.
Well, I ddin't think so at first. But as we started talking, I found him extremely funny and witty. I couldn't stop laughing at his jokes! We have so much in common. We like the same teams, music, and most amazingly, we both love Chinese food! I have the feeling that we are going to be great friends.
Did your boat float down the river?
we ’ re negotiating the final details of the leasing contracts tomorrow.
They must have practiced a lot. The perseverance has made them they are today.
It should be from Sayuri Beds. Is that right?
Well, it ’ ll be a rainy day for Northern Utah.we can expect some isolated downpours in the morning. Winds will be coming in from the North East, with gusts reaching twenty-three miles per hour. Salt Lake City can expect the rain to turn to sleet in the evening. Things are looking a bit better for the South.we ’ ll see cloudy skies with a chance of showers. Later in the day, we can expect partlycloudy skies, with a forecast high of thirty-eight degrees.
What kind of sandwich did you get?
Yet the Argentine attacker is worth a bet.
I can hardly stand these wet and cold days. It seems that it doesn't bother you very much.
ok. I ’ ll start by looking at the motor. I ’ ll just unplug it and take a look inside the machine... oh, yes. There ’ s the problem. It’s quite simple. I ’ ll sort it out in a few minutes.
do you get along well with each other?
Do you have any order forms here so that I can get a subscription to the magazine?
I was at home with my parents in New York City.
yes, you're right. All your preparation efforts are to help you land a job interview.
I hope you didn ’ t forget mine!
I really want to go to China for vacation, but I can ’ t find a cheap plane ticket.
Follow me, please. How do you like this one?
In that case, please put my name in your waiting list. We know you are quite a good restaurant.
Nice to meet you, Lvan.My name is Alike. I'm from Japan.
The general manager of your section.
Is there a name tag attached to them?
Oh, Lord, no. Those are ugly. What else do you have?
Hello! We're supposed to be getting back to nature.
Great, Mr. Sandals. Your reservation is confirmed. Now all I need is your phone number.
Could you tell me the particulars?
I'm sorry, I'm very tired. I'm going to bed early. I didn't have good time, and I don't really want to see you again.
What would you consider your strengths?
What will happen to the children if you break up?
You see this is the first time for me to use the swimming pool. I've got no idea about the water temperature of the pool. I'm afraid it might be a little cold.
Wish him to be healthy soon.
Would you mind telling me a little bit about your present job?
I'm paid on a salary.
Peter, it's time to eat breakfast.
Well have a good time. Get me some autographs if you can.
I don't know what I want to eat.
That was a very interesting presentation, Ms. Wang. My colleagues and I are very impressed with your proposal.
Honey, you really forgot about it? Think it over. It's a candlelight dinner.
What was the actual score?
Be sure. And if there is anything more you need, please let us know.
Certainly. Does she have your number?
Can I see the doctor?
Well, for one, we have an excuse to stay home.
Ping. P-I-N-G.
Are you going to watch the Indy Five Hundred on TV this weekend?
And what are running-shoe-style shoes?
Thank you, Mr.Smith. I'm returning to China today.
Look, Mary! There are so many people over there!
For Agreement Savings, we ask for 100,000 RIB.
Well, if you live in other cities as long as enough, you will love them just as much.
All right.Shall I enter all my belongings?
I'll take care of everything. I just need your phone number and insurance.
Yes, dad, it was.
Thank you for your help, doctor.
Ok. This is your cubicle. At first, you ’ ll be responsible to me. Later, you ’ ll be working more independently.
Well. I would like my hair cut shorter on the temples.
Yeah, try not to kick or hit the computer!
Certainly, Mr. Emory. Is there a problem, sir?
When do you check in? How long are you planning to stay? Do you have any special requirements?
I chose the Institute of Foreign Language.
Yes, that ’ s correct.
No problem. What ’ s wrong?
Can you help me? You know I do need the scholarship.
Yes, I see. In my previous job, I did typing and filing everyday.
I just meant that she's got different taste.
I am not convinced by your explanation. Could you explain it?
Very well. We started organizing everything early to avoid a last minute rush to get things done. The only thing that isn ’ t ready yet is my wedding dress.
Is it in a good location?
I see. Well, with those symptoms maybe you ’ Ve got food poisoning. What have you eaten recently?
What are you going to be doing?
I had just enough money to make ends meet until payday. Then last Wednesday I received a phone bill to the tune of $ 195.00. I hit the ceiling when I saw that.
I want to change a new car. I like Honda best, especially the red one. But it is too expensive.
Pretty good, thanks. And you?
No, the test skips a lot of things in the book.
I think I forgot to send it in!
What problem is that?
How about tomorrow at 11 o'clock?
You did mess up on something.
That ’ s not a big problem. There are many small schools for adults like you who can study to be certified.
I'm sorry. I must have made a mistake. I'll bring them for you at once.
Wow, so you'll be out thirty dollars on your first week at work!
I'm not really sure about that. But I know we are still receiving resumes.Maybe after a week or two they will start calling applicants.
Fine, we will cancel it.
I love you, too. And forgive Jack. He's doing his best.
I thought everyone in your country were experts at mah-jong!
Yes, I know. What's the fare?
I think so. I ’ Ve got the shopping list, so let ’ s go.
We also need some sunscreen. What about beach towels?
You know, speaking in class is a very good chance to put your English to practical use.
Now let's get things ready.
It is necessary. Positive attitude helps to prevent stress.
What kind of medicine does she need?
We could move your luggage while you are out, but could you take any valuables with you? You may pick up your new room key No. 216 from the Front Desk when you return.
Could I have a slice of pumpkin pie?
What's your title in the company?
It’s all religion. Take the theory of the Big Bang.How is it possible that all of the stuff in the universe comes from an explosion? That ’ s no better than Atlas carrying the globe on his back or African myths about turtles and stuff.
What kind of ground beef do you want?
ok, well, we're going to make a pan of lasagne, a salad, and some garlic bread. Here's the recipe. Do you want to get the ingredients we need out of the cupboard?
Take it easy. We are going to have our own baby. You should be happy.
Don ’ t criticize Mario or else I ’ ll start on those fat, drunk friends of yours ; they ’ re no saints.
Of course, it can be done right this minute. If you could just fill in this application form for me? Do you have your ID card with you? I'll need to see that.
let's go swimming.
Thanks for the visit, Betty.
I ran it against that fence pole as I crashed. What do you think? Damn, it hurts!
Is it this one?
I'm not sure.But if you are only going to stay a year, I don't think Price Club is good to join.They have great deals occasionally.They are very good for people who like to buy new things all
By amenities, exactly what do you mean, please?
I never thought about that.
She's glowing. It must be the pregnancy.
I don't understand. You don't even know the ' friends ' you are ' talking ' to!
Oh, and I can ’ t wait to watch the dragon dance! Dad, can I sit on your shoulders this time?
What? In your cubicle?
The figure seems right.
You must feel terrible now.
Yes, Bill Smith in Room 713.
Not paying attention to the speedometer? Why not?
That is a blast from the past.
Don't you see I'm trying my best?
Well. First you have to turn this switch on.
what's your room number?
What special skills do you have?
Well, of course depends somewhat on experience, background and that sort of thing. What are your currently earning?
Yeah, that ’ s perfect. What about the subjects for your minor?
You paid the last time, because I didn't have any money, remember?
Is this your car?
Will I have the chance to take business trip abroad once in a while?
Yes. Actually my friend has a spare room in here apartment and she's looking for a flatmate. Would you like her phone number?
Yeah, I'm OK, I have been having a lot of mood swings lately. I think it has to do with the pills my doctor prescribed that are causing chaos on my hormones.
The right opportunity for you would come along soon. You know, music is transnational.
I hope we could offer the most favorable terms.
I'll try the vegetarian, please.
One adult, please.
Capsules are fine.
I need to make a copy of a document as soon as possible.
Right again. We can provide a tailored consultation service for you, giving you the latest quotes from the Stock Exchange and help you to plan what exactly you do with your investments.
Oh, Mike. How are you doing?
You're right. We're not really into used stuff.
Finally the class is over. Be quick. Ben must have been waiting for long.
How are you getting along with your business?
You ’ re a big fan of Andy Lau, aren ’ t you?
Hmm... Maybe I should sign up too.
What about a factory tour?
No, Lily is not here at the moment.
I have one ten-day tour that is still available. It will depart from New York on December 24th.
One of my friends tells me that his company is hiring in a large scale and he wants me to go for an interview.
All right sir. How many nights will you be staying?
Hi Ricky. Are you a new student here?
He told me that if I showed up late one more time, he'd fire me. He's so mean!
Can I see your ticket?
The winter in Ottawa is freezing.
Would you sign the register, PLS?
Hi, sir. Come and have a look here. We have all kinds of sweaters.
have you applied for grants or financial aid of some sort?
How's your father been?
Fine! I am going to go home and drop off this nightstand, coffee table and love seat while you look for the rest of the things.
I believe so. But if it really bothers you, I'll replace it for you.
No, that's it. Thanks. Bye.
I ’ Ve got a few classical music CD ’ s. I should follow your lead and increase my brian power.
who takes care of bug control?
I know. You hate the rain, don't you?
Here is ten Yuan.
Would it be full now?
Well, shall we go to the cinema?
Well, can you explain it to me?
Are you telling us a lie again?
Mr and Mrs Ryefield, that's R-Y-E-F-I-E-L-D.
I think that I could study a little harder for tests.
I just turned 18 last month.
Do your think I should wear a different dress?
That's cool.
Guess what? He has just got the sack.
I haven ’ t been completely honest with you Veronica, I ’ m sorry. I ’ m not a fireman. I ’ m not even from the United States. I ’ m a spy for the Indian government.
Sure that sounds great! Are there any other fees?
They don't mind.
Yes. Each apartment has one.
Well, I ’ Ve always wanted to have lots of children. Growing up with only one brother, I always felt a bit lonely. What do you think about families with only one child?
How much do you make?
well, cats are certainly more independent.
Yes, I have prepared. I have also prepared a meeting memo.
Let ’ s stop gossiping and get back to work.
This is gonna be a great barbecue!
Come on. I'll introduce you two.
Let me confirm your order, Mr. White in Room 204, Chinese food. Is that right?
About a pack, more if I drink.
Why do you say so? Can I see your new car?
Right away, sir.
I want some cosmetics.Could you recommend some?
Well, she is thinking of doing some household cleaning or baby sitting in the community.
It's only a couple of dollars more. For that much money you can afford to risk it.
Thank you. Do you have some other colors?
Yeah, traffic was brought to a standstill by the accident. If we had gone early we would miss the traffic.
I don't want to miss my flight.
That's no problem at all, but could you fill in this and I'll need to see some ID.
I do it every once in a while.
I have many hobbies. I like almost all kinds of sports and I also like to listen to classical music.
Nothing. Just wear comfortable clothes and good shoes for walking. We'll bring everything.
It's really very easy saying you're sorry.
That was nice and fast. Thanks.
What is this big box at the front door?
But I still have doubted those funds with bad stock performance. For me, his stock record is the very important criteria to decide which to buy. I really want to decrease the risk reach the minimum and achieve the maximum returns.
Now I'll quickly send a short message to my wife and take the elevator down to the basement.
Do you often go there alone?
OK. I'll change the time to 8: 00.
Well, I'll settle for blue-black. I'll also take a dozen airmail envelopes.
We'll sign our signatures, too. And give you our passport numbers along with our ARC numbers.
Maybe. But the car of this space has a broken rearview mirror on the left.
Two adult passes, please.
I know. But I did not do it.
I think we should really do something sometime.
I ’ d like to go into management. I ’ Ve applied for several jobs already and I ’ m hopeful that I ’ ll get some job offers. How about you?
Really? When is it on?
I think it's OK. I also have two credit cards.
Which flight do you want to change?
How much was the ticket?
That's right, once a week. Do you want to order a Pizza?
Are you free tonight?
We had some shoes like those a month ago, but we don't have any now.
No. I'm from Taiwan. Can't you see?
What a creep! Phony good luck e-mails are one thing, but sexual harassment is crossing the line.
Enjoy your day off and don't forget to study!
It looks best in spring, when the plum and cherry blossoms are out.
I wonder if I can use your bike.
did you end up losing any of your work?
I'll be bringing an application form.
What about a cell phone? She is old enough to have one.
I need it for the parking meter.
I think I will do that.
We see you are all dressed to the nines.
Honey, you are a good accountant. So I'd better leave that to you, too.
Are you available this Friday?
Yes. He is very understanding and supportive.
As you know, we should work out cautious and detailed plan for our promotion, so as to guide our company to be successful in the new product, L-series.
Sorry to have smoked in your room.
Yes, I'd like a Jeep, but my wife says we have to get a comfortable sedan for long drives home to see her relatives.
After you ’ Ve chopped the vegetables, could you fry the meat in a little oil? Just use a very small amount of oil. Fry the meat until it is cooked, then we ’ ll add some spices to flavor it.
That is the Ford Focus. A very light but powerful vehicle. It comes with dual side airbags, power steering and power windows, tinted windows and your choice of either automatic or manual transmission.
It's wonderful to be in the mountains after a hustle bustle week.
Haggis? What ’ s Haggis?
Really? Since I have to go back to England within the next few months, I would like to sell my apartment as soon as possible.
Have you met John?
Sir, I am very glad to tell that we have successfully registered the trademark for our new product. It is the time to think of some effective promoting strategies. We are beginning to get more attention from overseas.
Do you know what kind of pass you want?
Draft beer and cans beer. Which do you prefer?
What kind of jewellery do you like to have?
Medium.May I try it on?
I am so excited to be voting.
Please put your luggage outside your room by eight. The bellboy will pick them up.
Is there a bookstore near here?
What if we are out sick?
Good morning, I ’ m Daniel. I ’ m applying for the positon of manager.
I want to adopt a cat, and it can be Barbie's boyfriend too.
Please go ahead, I am listening.
Oh, my God, I forgot grandma's coming!
May I interest you in some dessert?
Why not? The Sweetheart pendant matches the cell phone well. I'd take this one.
The rent is 400 yuan a day.
Will, that'll be the sixth of September.
If that's your only piece of luggage, it is small enough to carry on with you. Would you like to do that so you don't have to wait in luggage reclaim once you arrive?
He must be very easy-going.
How do I use the eye-drop and ointment?
Excuse me. Can you tell me how to find some books on social science?
I'm sorry, Sir. The maximum we can lend you on this type of loan is 20,000 RIB, with no exceptions.
That's too early. I don't get out of work until five. Do you have a later flight?
Can you do me a favor?
how about the lyrics?
Oh, I remember, there is a job fair in the personnel market.
That's good to hear.
Hello. Mr. Rodriguez?
Right, so I picked up a copy of the Sunday Globe this morning.
Alright. You win. Please pass the brain food.
Now have a look, please. Is it all right?
Hit ' em high, hit ' em low. Class of ' 93 — let's go!
I felt OK until an hour or so ago, and then I just doubled over.
I think the valve is faulty. I couldn't regulate the pressure and the seal burst. I tried opening the emergency valve but it was jammed.
Yes. We've moved. That's why we're giving the party. Can you come?
Yes, I often do business through internet now.
Maybe just a quick sandwich, salad, or something.
On Saturday, you'll leave the hotel for sightseeing. Miss Lu will be your guide.
I hope at least one of them has dancing figures.
It is a red Audi.
If that happens, maybe you could marry my brother and we could become in-laws!
So what do I need to do?
Sure. While you ’ re in the computer store. I will visit the book store opposite. I like to browse through their books and see if they have anything interesting.
James Taylor, 23, March 30,1982.
What about the expression Goodbye? Is that an idiom?
I'll be late because I have waited so long!
I've read your resume and know a lot of things about your qualifications for this position. One thing you didn't mention is why you left your last job? I know the company you worked for is a good company.
Your house is too small. Why not buy a big one.
I ’ m excited to be here.
Yes, I ’ Ve had lots of overtime to do recently and I haven ’ t slept much at all.
This fits me well, how much is it?
That's funny. My watch always loses ten minutes a day.
Let's see, 30NT is about... almost a dollar US. What?! How about these pineapples?
This is the last of the milk.
All right. I will begin boarding soon.
Thank you for your love and care over the years. I love you so much.
I'm afraid you are beginning to look a little overweight. You really need to stop smoking. That's the main reason you're unhealthy.
I'm really tired of my job in the bank. I'm thinking about changing it.
that ’ s very nice of you to offer. Here ’ s your tea. Be careful, It’s still quite hot.
No, the steak was recommended, but it is not very fresh.
Yes, the autumn is marvelous here.
Well you should come with me one day, I'm sure you'll love it.
Are you keeping this small bag as carry-on luggage, sir?
We have just arrived from Tokyo only... looking for a reserve car of your company. All of above, we cannot find it.
Well. Could I try it on?
Hello, Becky. Well, you see, I have this thing here, called a Fixed Deposit Certificate, and I've just noticed the date on it.
I love her so much, you know. I want to be alone. Please keep quiet.
It is real word.
We are going to climb a cliff on the Colorado River.
Yes, I'm leaving on the 14th of next month.
I'm ready! Whoa, what a hard throw! I can't get that!
Because I'm not Christian, I'm Jewish.
I don't remember, but it wasn't very serious. Have you ever been in an earthquake?
what's the difference?
Yes, and I like the color too. It matches your eyes.
How much fun is there in singing in front of other people, especially if you don't sing well?
But it is very difficult for any government to handle it efficiently.
How about the Yellow Mountains?
Anything of value in it?
Everyone else there was wearing blue jeans. Several of the women had on running shoes. I felt out of place. So I have no idea what to wear tonight.
I grow a variety of things, so that something is in bloom all year round.
That was the only thing that I saw wrong with the apartment.
You are doing the waltz wonderfully well.
Mr. : Please open your books to page 10. ( To Mary ) Can I help you?
I just need to see some identification before I hand over the cash.
Are you more of a follower or a leader?
Would you like to make an appointment?
Oh, yes. That's our regular flight to Nanchang. Would you please tell me your name?
What took you so long?
Pls wait a minute, let me check. Excuse me, but I can't seem to find your name on our list. Are you sure you have a reservation for tonight?
I ’ m afraid this seat is taken.
Excuse me, where can I find a guide?
What about the costumes?
Got it, sir. It'd be great to see you again, sir.
Is it a photograph or a document?
As the city grew, it must have absorbed many village nearby.
It is too expensive for me. Do you have something cheaper?
Thank you. It's a pleasure to meet you.
At 11:00 o'clock.
Oh, and It’s out of paper. Do you have any more?
There has been an occasional silverfish in the hotel, sir.
Please don't tell my mom.
Yeah, I agree with you. But you know, It’s just one of those things.
Would you like to come over for dinner tonight?
My strengths are my caring about getting the job done. I am very results-driven and have been able to meet all my deadlines in past jobs. As far as weaknesses, I really enjoy my work, and sometimes I put in too much time. But I am aware of my tendency to overwork and have learned to pace myself more.
Sure. Coming right up.
You would think that people would be smart enough to stop something like that. No one knew his motorcycle was being stolen. The thieves came in a truck and convinced everybody that my uncle was parked illegally and they were there to tow it away.
Doctor, what is the best way to stay healthy?
Do you have any other questions?
How long have you known how to do that?
Sounds like you've got some competition. You made a move already?
I bought it for one hundred and forty-five dollars at Helen's Boutique. I didn't know I could get it cheaper somewhere else.
I feel my greatest asset is perseverance, that is, the ability to stick to things to get them done.
How about the second of March?
And lots of Dear Abby sob stories...
Well, just something in general, like several key steps in planning career and how to set specific and tenable goals.
I get what you mean.
No, but my husband smokes twenty or more a day.
Excuse me. Could you please take a picture of us with this camera?
Robert, I have been instructed to reject the numbers you proposed, but we can try to come up with something else.
They aren't hard. I am sure you can do it.
Are there many employers?
Can you remember them all?
OK. How much is it all together?
Is anybody in?
Well, I'm sure you will.
Did you read the letter in the paper about smoking? The person who wrote that must be crazy.
Wouldn't you? What would you do with all that spare time?
Oh, that ’ s a good choice. Very healthy too.
Sorry, I don't have any sugar.
Do you sell them individually or by weight?
It's clogged and water won't go down.
Will you wake me up in the morning?
They are. We can find many different kinds of flowers and insects in the park.
It does look a little strange, I didn't notice that before.
Maybe now I ’ ll get that promotion I was hoping for.
it's very impressive. Can you use the Internet on your phone?
I would like to have my coat washed.
Thank you. Sir
Well, healthy food, of course! I got some whole wheat bread, skimmed milk, fresh fish and organic carrots...
The company deals in selling electronics.
Okay. I'd like to change some euro into US dollars, please.
I am here to get my prescription filled.
I love that kind of stuff.
I have prepared name cards to be put on the conference table for everyone to sit by. What time would you like to provide the refreshment?
I sometimes played basketball and sometimes played football.
But I cannot forget him.
I am doing well. What ’ s up with you?
I missed it. I watch a live show of a concert.
I just felt embarrassed if I refused to drink when people toasted to me. But if I keep gulping down one cup after another, I'm afraid I would feel unfit or sick.
Could you tell me something about the terms and interest rates for personal automobile consumer loan?
The Bulls, of course!
How long have you been sick?
I love science fiction and fantasy, but I've been reading a lot of both lately, so I'd prefer to get something else.
Thank you very much. And do you have any proof of the financial support for the three years?
Can we adjust the pitch a little? Maybe he'll sound better in a higher key.
I've found a nice place in this district.Three bedrooms, a large kitchen, high ceilings, a tile bath and a big drawing room.
How long will the system be down for?
The total will be $ 32.42. Will that be cash?
ok, let's go.
I don't agree. I think the Capitol building is the most famous.But okay. If you want to see the White House, we'll go see it. I'm just afraid it will be boring.
It's the funniest movie that I've ever seen.
Fine. Give me the ticket.
Does it take a long time to get a visa?
I think that the issue of greatest concern is having enough sources of clean water for everyone.
That's just what I need, sometimes I'm pretty forgetful.
I am not feeling well.
I will try. My apologies.
Do you have a fever with that rash?
There's information on deposit or loan rates, exchange rates...
I just feel funny.
Last year we made a big snowman.
Can you come over at 11
You will ask for it.
Would you mind taking the necklace with you, or leaving it at the safe deposit box?
What are you going to do about the money in your account?
The weather is gorgeous here.
Certainly. There'll be a good chance of that if you work for this company. Not right away, of course, but in a few years, after you learn more about our business, you may go overseas with a tour group. Any questions?
no way, Gordon. I know that you are a little short on cash at the moment. There's no need for you to pay for the whole bill.
Hearing you say that is a big reward for us. And here is the receipt.
That ’ s a good idea. I ’ m really looking forward to redoing my bedroom.
May I ask how much I can get every month?
Julia, I would like to have a word with you. Have a seat.
I had a busy morning.
Your duty is to keep a check on those prisoners from now on.
are you looking for somewhere for two people?
I was thinking that I should have my new appliances delivered as we are moving in.
It wasn't very expensive either.
I can do a chest X-ray to check for congestion.
Sorry, It’s all sold out.
That ’ s very kind of you. Thanks a lot.
Not at all! It be fun! It will be like a boys ’ night out... well kinda...
Do you know what you will be doing yet?
Next time you buy veggies or fruits, have them bagged and weighed before you come here.
Sure, very difficult.
I think you deserved this.
All right. But we demand the draft be accepted by a bank acceptable to us.
It’s beautiful but crowded.
It may comfort you to know that many people attended his viewing.
I am sure if you had studied, you would have done well. When can you re-take your exam?
Not really. The credit card is a revolving account. You only pay interest on what you owe.
sorry, I'm afraid that I've got plans tonight.
Well, maybe we could get it now and hide it until his birthday.
Well, since you agree with me, we should put the issue above board instead of talking about through other channels.
Certainly it is. It's worth an Academy Award.
Oh. Current account don ’ t pay our interest.
About ten days.
I received an E-mail from mother today.
That's very kind of you, but I can do without a rest. I have long wanted to have a talk with you about the possibility of business between us.
I ’ m pretty happy living there.
I think I ’ m very good at planning. I manage my time perfectly, so that I can always get things done on time.
Well, good luck with your garden, especially considering we are in the dry season and it won ’ t rain for the next three months!
The mark says six hundred yuan, plus tax, it's six hundred and eighty yuan.
Yes, I would like to exchange some money.
sounds like you've got some competition. You made a move already?
Hi, buddy! How do you deal with your salary?
By the way, could you tell me when the film will begin?
Are you looking for shoes?
I Don't know how they do it! Our competitors have undercut us by 10 % percent on the price of our latest model. There is no way will be able to compete against that. We're barely breaking even with the present prices.
Good morning, Jamie. What time is it now?
Have you finished all you preparation?
Yes. I'm looking for a guide.
Thanks. Your English is pretty good, too.
it tastes great.
I'm fine, thanks, how about yourself?
Is there anything wrong with your food this evening, Miss?
No, I am on business. I will spend half a month for the business.
What? But it is my favorite piece of clothing.
You wouldn't do that. Would you?
Good evening. Welcome to our restaurant.
OK. Anything to drink?
I'll be at your house at about five thirty.Happy birthday.
Why are you qualified for this position?
Well, that sounds good, I have never lived in a motel.
Aright. Have fun on Saturday.
Ar! Dad, the power went out.
Have you seen the new Hannibal Letter movie?
This Saturday evening.
Yes, Jane invited me for dinner to this new restaurant which opened near us.
that's only part of it. I absolutely adore this director. Every play he works on turns out great.
Yes. I suppose so.
Yes, please. And you can cash my traveler's check, can't you?
My first job was in a well-established company where the division of labour was very clear. I do not have more chances to enrich my experience. Then I got an opportunity to really broaden my experience with a new company that was starting up, but unfortunately, they closed their service in three months ' time. I have worked in my present company for a considerable length of time and enjoy the job I am doing now, but I think I have accumulated enough experience to take up more challenging post in a much larger and diversified company where I could make solid contribution.
I see. What is your baggage? And do not remember the tag's number or color?
Of course. A two-week paid vacation a year, a five-day workweek.
well, there is a play on campus this weekend.
I guess you could choose that if you wanted.
Do you have the notes from last week's class?
Oh, Mary, come in, please. I'm so happy to see you.
You can take this car into consideration. It works well and its price is reasonable.
Is this line for non-residents?
I wish I could play again, but there isn't much opportunities around here.
Hi, I ’ m Susan Marshall.You can call me Susan.Nice to meet you.
Can you recognize that woman, Millie?
That would be good.
politicians like to ignore the problems of the working class. They like to focus on making life easier for the upper class.
You should also put yours on. you never know what will happen with me in the driver ’ s seat!
This is Susan. Would you mind taking charge of decorating the office for our Christmas party?
thanks for those ideas. I ’ ll get to work on them right away.
It seems that something is praying heavy on you.What ’ s the matter?
It isn't your fault. No one will blame you.
What date would you like to fly?
Bottom is up.
Did you like the play?
You're right.If I were the teacher, I wouldn't have done that.
I'm not so sure of that. I think it's difficult for me to push sales at such a price.
So It’s really the same story. Practice, practice, practice and more practice is the only way to learn a language.
I am consistently impressed by the meal.
Are you on the top floor, or is there another apartment above you?
Well, I think our interview is complete then. We will give you a call in ten days or so.
There's a copy machine on the first floor in our computer lab, sir.
Because the company is far away from home, and I have to study after work so I can't afford to waste time on the road everyday.
yes. I buy most of my daily necessities online.
No, all the leases are for one year. We don't have month-to-month leases.
Yes, I am. I opened an account with you about a month ago, but today I'm here to see about a loan of some kind.
We will deliver your mattress tomorrow at 12 o'clock.
Thanks very much. I appreciate it.
Your graduation thesis was on Medical Application of Laser, right? What were your conclusions?
A plant? That's creative. I'm sure ever time she waters it she'll think of you. But there is a problem. Do you think it'll be able to get through the customs?
Most Sichuan dishes are spicy and hot. They taste differently.
Yes, it's perfect.
Thanks. Now, I have to find a job.
I'm afraid I can't. Parking is not allowed here.
Can we have two tickets for this evening's film?
Shall we go to a restaurant to celebrate?
It sure would. Did you also notice the way she slouched in her chair during most of the interview? She had horrible posture!
I'm not keen on dessert as a habit. They are fattening.
I'm not really in the mood for Italian, actually. I was thinking of something a bit spicy.
No problem, just go ask.
My left arm.
Our foundation is very high quality, only the finest ingredients. It will moisturize your skin and it has a sun block rating of 8.
I think that that is the best way to figure out what is causing this. Thank you.
Don't worry. We'll just get a doggie bag.
Yes, It’s a small world. We never know where we ’ ll meet someone we know.
I think the square-shaped ones will be the best for me.
There are various kinds of tea in China. It depends on the taste and effect.
Make it a few inches long.
That will work out fine. Do you think that Chinese or Continental food would be best?
not at all, but we don ’ t have a very traditional marriage either, so it suited us perfectly!
Well, that's an hour's ride.Why not just post your mail here.
that's too bad.They ' re such good company.
I never easily give up something that is valuable. Before I decided to quit that position, I had made a thorough analysis of things like what I would gain and what I would lose here in your company. You know, Shanghai is always a fascinating place to me, full of challenges as well as hopes. In addition to this, I have the specialized knowledge and the necessary experience of making a good. Of course, opportunities to work abroad and a higher salary are also important to me. So I believe It’s worthwhile to come here to work.
Tomorrow I'll take you to some places that I'm sure you will have interest in.
I'm afraid I don't know how to use your camera.
Don't worry about that. Your English seems very good.And our instruction manuals are very clearly written. It's easy!
Thanks for your time.
I often feel so tired.
No, she didn't. After half an hour she stopped watching and started to read a book.
Did you make it to school today?
Yes, they did.
Hello, is Jennifer in?
Where ’ s my wallet? Someone has stolen my wallet!
Have a good day!
I go to Panda Express for my Chinese food.
Please pay 10 yuan, the handling charge.
In my opinion, you have to go to the university every day, and the fare would cost you most of your living expenses if you live here far away from the university.
I'm so excited! We have two weeks off! What are you going to do?
Are you an existing customer?
No, thanks. His home is not far and I can walk there.
Do you have any different ideas?
That ’ s one reason I ’ d like to try it. I ’ d really like to get away from working 9 to 5 in an office.
It's smashed in.
If you miss this class, you will have used up your quota for the semester.
Of course, easy. No sweat.
That's quite good. Thank you for telling me about those.
A Current Deposit, please.
Where have you planned to go?
What is bothering you?
Yes. I'm following you.
This is Rick Allen speaking. Can I help you?
Yeah. I hate spending all day in there, too.
What are you doing in this neighbourhood? Do you live around here?
I think it might be a good idea to work as a guide.
If I need to know the price, I ’ ll just look at the label.
What attracted you to this job?
Why do you think the new page is so much better than the old page? I thought the old page wasn't half bad...
I didn't say I was going to deprive myself.
He ’ s fine. He retired last week. It’s turning point in his life. Now he can relax and enjoy his retirement.
Sure. Please wait for a moment.
A specialist? That's excellent, thanks.
How many books am I allowed to check out at a time?
I'd like to buy some perfume for my girlfriend.
May I carry this satchel?
Go ahead. It will be safe with me.
It is the symbol of laughing at hoar frost and fighting with snow. I admire the bravery of plum blossoms.
I really do hate public transportation.
Why not? We're supposed to meet him there.
And your address?
So you should bring an umbrella often.
Hug! And this sweater from my aunt? Isn ’ t it hideous?
I went to Rotes ’, you know, Edith Roth is the author of a book about moths.
Yes.How much is that?
OK, may I take your size?
Hi Amy. What's up?
Does anyone pay any attention to those ratings anymore?
I suppose you need the whiteboard set up.
Hi, Xavier. I'd like to go over the list of jobs for next week's maintenance shut.
Well, we ’ Ve got several point-and-shoot cameras.These are all 35mm compact cameras with auto-focus and a built-in flash.We also have these Polaroid cameras.
By the middle of October.
I'm with Hartford public relations. I'd like to set up an appointment to come by and talk with you about our services.
She strikes me as being very sophisticated. Only the best will do for her.
Sure, as long as you don't try to kiss me at midnight!
Helen is nice but she talks a lot.
I think you're hallucinating! What are you talking about?
Your sister is a fitness expert, huh?
I want some pickles, oh, and we ’ re out of flour. Put that on the list, too.
It's not too bad, but it's pretty cold here too. It was about 45 today and it rained this afternoon. I heard it's going to be a little warmer tomorrow.
Well, I guess that ’ s about it. Everything ’ s packed and ready to go.
If you don't have other questions, just sign here.
Pretty busy.So are you back for good?
Sure, how about a medium Pepsi?
Oh, boy. His wife can't be happy about that.
You should call the Housekeeping Department on 2300. They will replace any stock for you immediately.
Really? Let ’ s hit the road.
At hotels and some restaurants they add a service charge to the bill, but other than that, tipping isn't customary.
you are right. It is giving me a real headache. I feel like I ’ m between a rock and a hard place.
I think he won't remember White Day.
Honey, if you don't want to go to cram school, you should tell me the reason why.
Welcome to Perfect Getaway Tours. How can I help you?
5 days. And could you send a bellboy to pick up my luggage?
Well, I can't give you a better warranty, if you would be willing to agree to an annual contract.
And this bedroom is too big and damp. But It’s better than a tent.
Why don't you make up with John.
Oh, I hope it be fixed on Friday.
It's no trouble at all. I'll carry this suitcase for you.
There's a parking structure for students.
But I still say Americans spend a lot more money on useless things than we Chinese do.
I was just thinking to call you, then the phone rang and it was you calling me.
Yes, it's used, but she said it was in very good shape. It's a small foreign car.
Actually, I'm not good at tennis at all...
Your dog is so much fun. He ’ s so playful. I wish our cat enjoyed being around people as much as your dog does.
I wanted to, but I knew that if I spoke to her, I'd just blow up at her, so I decided to just go home. I called her later that the night, but she didn't answer the phone.
I am putting a tourniquet on your arm to plump up the vein. It will only feel like a little pin prick.
Just a moment, please. I'm sorry, sir. There is no ticket available on that day. But we have flights for Guangzhou the next day.
It is very easy. Just turn right when you leave and then turn right again at the first crossroads. The entrance to the Underground station is about 50 meters further on.
Whoa, take it easy there Rambo. Don ’ t get carried away. These weapons are not toys, and you must first learn how to handle them properly. There are basic rules that you must abide by in order to be safe. For example, never handle a weapon that you haven ’ t inspected yourself. Always make sure there isn ’ t anything in the chamber, and never put your finger on the trigger unless you are ready to shoot!
I thought you had forgotten.
What can I say? I am a passionate guy.
Do we have to?
I'd like to start at 3000 yuan a month.
Do you like some soup?
Oh, I ’ m crazy about them.
Are there any seats left for Saturday night?
How much tea are you going to order?
I hear that the kitchen is quite large. Let ’ s go check it out.
You are right, sir. To prepare it, a Sichuan food chef first fries some chilli until they turn reddish brown, and then puts diced chicken breast meat into the pot with other condiments and peanuts. That's why the dish has a bright colour.
I have been at my current job for 10 years.
Many happy returns of the day, darling?
When we get paid for this assignment, you get US $ 2, TOO, and I get US $ 3,000.
Would you like to have some shampoo, sir?
Beautifully done, many thanks.
Hello. I'd like to make a call to Australia.
Are you free next thursday?
The parades are usually military ones, but sometimes there are procession of people carrying flags and singing patriotic songs. What do you do on national day in your country?
I'm not sure if we've got any now.Books of that kind are on this shelf.Well, I'm afraid we've sold out.
I think we would be able to make it.What time shall we come?
yes, but it's not much. You just have to pay 1 % interest on the amount. It's much lower rate than any of our loans and it's much better than owing money to most credit cards.
That's the point. People usually don't have much time to think about it when they have a on-the-go meal.
You ’ re welcome. What brings you to China?
Aren't you a bit young? I have a lot of qualified seniors to take the course and they usually have a hard time keeping up.
Morning. What would you like for breakfast?
I think it says Temple City.
No, I didn't. My brother was very good and I did quite a lot of homework.
My fish is very dry.
We'll take great care.
Can I see your ID?
Me, too. But I could never make bracelets like these.
Do you still want both classes?
No, it's just perfect.
You can go to any branch of IBA and request the Emergency Assistance Service. Everything will be taken care of, there's no need to worry.
On their bus or in your own cars, and you won't be allowed to get off the bus until you reach the special region.
Not bad. We had a get-together with friends from college. I haven't seen many of them since graduation. How about you?
Yes, of course. I am calling to apply for a job as an accountant.
I am glad you enjoy it. I will tell this to the chef. Would you like some more beer?
here are two different shades of brown. Which one do you prefer?
Do you want to climb the mountain with us?
What kind of magazine is it?
I hear you and James are engaged at last.
Try this one, please. This is made of real leather and is very soft. How is it?
Yes. How do I get an outside line, please?
I'm in the electrical appliances.
It's bigger than our last one. I've got flowers in the front, and fruits, vegetables and a fish pond in the back.
Yes, I ’ m off to the department store. I must buy some furniture for my new flat.
It’s still up in the air. There is something wrong between us.
The place is a must-see. This zoo was built in 1862, and it's the oldest zoo in the world, and still among the best. There are more than 3,000 species of animals here, including the popular kangaroos, wallabies, koalas, and wombats.
Reciting texts really bores me to death.
Square. But with round at the edges, please.
What's your main range?
Well, maybe sneakers or rubber shoes.
No. It's no problem.Are you American?
What can I do for you, sir?
they are all good.
No, not at all, Brian. This year, we ’ Ve all had to cut back. I ’ m hoping next year ’ s going to better. I hope you can understand.
Thank you very much. Now, sir, do you have a credit card?
I'm in a bit of a hurry, Miss Liu. Can you wait for a minute?
Coffee? I don ’ t honestly like that kind of stuff.
How's your father?
My firm has high standing in my country. My bank is the City Bank, New York. You may refer to it for my status.
Thank you, Linda. We would love you to come to our wedding.
Which aisle has the produce?
I appreciate you calling and telling me that you won ’ t be in class. See you next week!
Well, I've always wanted to see Vancouver. I've heard it has the most beautiful views.
Don't worry about it.It ' s on me.
What do you mean 7B
I'm going to Rockefeller Center.
I asked the store to deliver my new appliances on the day we are moving in.
Perhaps that's because we hold different ideas about privacy.
You're right. We need more people like you in politics.
the professor is a bit boring today. You need something to perk yourself up. How about a coffee?
Firstly, you should go to the supermarket, which is nearest to our company, to buy some fruit, drinks, desserts and cakes. Here is the list of things you need to buy.
Hello, do you know anywhere that sells cheap cashmere sweaters?
to be honest, he has no authority. He's a hard-worker, but no one listens to him.
What if I don't want to come in to the branch, can I use the consultation service over the phone?
Certainly I do.
He must've, because the signal had a camera on top of it.
The bus is cheaper but also slower. It will take about two-and-a-half hours.
I'm not sure. I was thinking of making a vegetable.
When shall I tell the taxi to be here?
How can you do so? Perhaps something is wrong with him. Let ’ s go and see him.
I want to be an English professor in the future. I love studying literature, and I want to teach it.
do you like animals? I really like dogs.
Did you meet the new girl in our sales department. She is taking the place of Maggie during her alternative leave.
That ’ s fine.
I heard that ben is forming his own band.
It was hardly all night. And I recall it was you doing all the laughing at your own jokes.
I am an eloquent speaker in the classroom. But when I face a stranger outside, I get tongue-tied and nothing comes out.
Did you see the 2005 Grammy Awards on TV last night.
This is what I want.
Let me write all that down. I ’ m going shopping this afternoon.
Ok, where can I find their telephone number?
No, I'll stay here at the booth. I ate earlier. Are you going to the Chinese restaurant?
What kind of job have you ever had?
What happened? Did you break up?
Is there anything else?
Certainly, may I take your name? I ’ ll let her know you ’ Ve arrived.
Here's your bill, sir. Could you please check it?
Oh yeah? What do you need to go shopping for?
We will take the trip. Could you give us a pamphlet?
Did you enjoy the movie?
How nice of you to remember!
Is that so? But I think It shouldn't keep you long in bed.
He lost his kids ’ college money by trading.
She's on the M40, near Reading.
Man, I ’ m freaking out! You gotta help me!
What time does the train for Tibet leave?
Of course. Are you a new member here?
musicians are so woke.
That looks great, but I will also need your driver's license or other form of I. D.
Ok. I'll take it. Here's the money.
Maybe we could try it again in a few months when things have settled down.
John, I have been watching you. I've been paying attention to you over the last quarter and I'm impressed. You've done a tremendous job in tackling some difficult accounts. I just want to let you to know, after this month's performance reviews, I'm recommending you for promotion.
Not where, what. Dutch means you both pay your own way.
OK, that's perfect, 70 % is excellent, it'll be a big help. Thanks.
I would rather deal with the winter than the summer.
Yes, nice. But I prefer this wooden house with a garden fence and a sloping roof.
That's great. Will that be cash, check, or credit card?
You really look familiar.
Yes, but my notes are all nonsense. I can't figure out what is important.
That's a pity. Does Friday suit you?
May I speak to Mr. Thomas?
The people don ’ t really work out there. They just stand around and talk all the time.
Well, how about tomorrow night? Are you doing anything then?
I'd like her to have a change.
Clear soup, please.
I know. He bought me that beautiful sweater for my birthday. It was exactly what I wanted. And it fit me perfectly!
I haven't decided yet, but I think the Olympic Mascots are a must.
I have no idea what you are talking about. I just want to know if It’s good and if I will be able to play solitaire without the computer crashing or freezing all the time!
Not yet. I am looking for a black suitcase.
Keep in touch!
The counter-offer was acceptable to them, but they want you to pay for the home inspection.
I prefer not to move first.
I can't help myself ; it's just so disgusting in here!
I'm sorry, he is not here at the moment. He has gone to the International Business Center.
Yes, We have.
Are you serious? Fighting? But I didn't hear anything on the news.
Excuse me. Are you Mr. Smith?
What a splendid idea!
That ’ s right. You need to create a good image in a limited time, usually about 30 to 45 minutes.
Oh, these? Hmm... Yellow isn't a good color for me.
It can't be true.
But if there is an emergency and the manager is of absence, what should we do?
Oh, it's a reserved opera named The Monkey Creates Havoc in Heaven.
It's not far away, then. Let's walk, it's beginning to rain.
I'm not at all keen on this subject.
Wow. Too bad I don't have a clue about housework.
That sounds so romantic! Jack and I were hoping to get married in Europe next year, but we had to postpone our plans. We just don't have the money!
You can find one at the end of the street.
With cold milk?
Good idea. So we Can rest in the shadow of the tree.
I just lost my job. My boss just told me.
Did you call me, sir?
But he seems to be very happy with Rose.
It was a pleasure.
I don't think the lecture is very interesting.
Your products are very good, but the price you ask is much too high.
( At counter 1. ) Do you take parcels here?
Okay. You're in room 507. It's a single queen-size bed, spacious, and nonsmoking. Is that suitable?
We really don't need to.
What do you do if you find something that isn't on your list?
You have a bench warrant.
No, you don't.
What? How happy you life is! I do envy you.
Let me go get it for you.
Yeah, after all the explanations like, It’s too heavy, I was in a hurry... whatever.
And your statement reference and the payment amount. Click on next, then ' pay beneficiaries '. That's it! All done.
Hi, Linda. I haven't seen you for ages.
I need to buy some new clothes for the summer too. Perhaps we can go together one day.
Yes, great. I am happy you are coming.
I am wondering if you do facial care?
All right. I'm finished.
But if we're going to be late?
What else are you interested in?
Well, why not?
Peter, take off your pajamas.
I'm sorry, refresh my mind. What's different about a Type B Account?
how about going to the Olympic souvenir store to have a look? I remember there is one in the gym.
What? It’s only 9 p. m. Now. Why today he went to bed so early?
Sure, what did you want to do?
I'm calling about you appointment.Mr.Smith has to cancel all his appointments because he's got something urgent to attend to.
Just since today.
By this time, it's better. The rush hour is over.
I think the four days ' tour from New York to Atlantic City will be fine.
As you know, my city is on the coast.the water is also not clean.but people still go swimming all year around. i prefer to sand bath on the beach when the weather is hot in sunny.
Can I help?
We shall be very pleased. Is there anything else I can do for you, Mrs. Anderson?
Would you like to confirm the reservation?
Hmm... How long will it take to mail things to the USA by air?
I ’ ll take them.
What do you think will happen?
You're from Tangshan? I can't believe my ears. I was also born in Tangshan, but I was brought up in Beijing.
What's your name, Sir?
I haven ’ t seen you for several days.
I didn't do that.
Let me have a look. I think the batteries should be changed. Let me replace them with new ones. Now, it's working.
May I have a magazine or something?
I live in Haitian District where there are lot of universities.
Yes, ten days.
Hello, I want confirm my flight. My name is Jesse.
There ’ s branch on new street. Walk up this street until you get to the first set of traffic lights. Then turn right at the traffic lights.
I will try my best to assist you if you need any help.
Hi, Ellen. That outfit looks terrific!
Here's Copellini's, my cousin's store.
What water wagon?
I'll handle him. Now go home. I'll call you after work.
part-timer? Is that a new buzzword?
How are you doing, Madam? My name is During. I am coming to your company for an interview as requested.
Why? it doesn't make sense. If we do the floors first, and then paint the walls, we will get paint all over our new floor.
Let ’ s go see how we can apply for those positions.
2 should be enough, for each one has at least 30 seats. There will be some seats to spare.
I ’ m in pretty bad shape, Doctor Ford.
How tall is she?
I hit my head on a cupboard door a week ago.
In that case, we will need to fill out this paperwork. Do you have identification with you?
Would you like this to-go?
I really enjoyed that film! What about you?
Have a great day, take care, bye.
Anne! I haven't seen you for ages.How ' Ve you been?
Then I guess I'll just get a Snickers.
I have downloaded one, but it still can't be listened.
Do you think so? I ’ m not so sure. Anyway, tell me your plans for an Australian holiday. How long do you think we should spend there?
How do you do, Mr. Wu? Welcome.
I'll have another cup of beer insist. I know I don't like to drink alone, especially there are someone sitting there next to me.
And the tango?
Onxiu Travel Agency, may I help you?
Sure. Will you be long?
Thirty minutes or 30 seconds, sir, it doesn't matter, I'm ready for you.
He ran four miles and came back dead beat.
I want to get a package of cigarette.
I have a question about my payment and need someone to help me.
Great. Then I'll be at your hotel at two.
No. What is that street charming for?
Who made the first move?
Do you carrying fresh fish?
What a pity. Can you recommend a nice restaurant near here?
I think you made the right choice, coming to us.We have a wide selection of vehicles you can choose from.
Yes, it will.
Will the employers see my information?
Engaged? She ’ s married.
Okay. Say when.
Oh really? I didn't know that.
If you give us your inquiry, I shall go very carefully into the price and try my best to put you on the best of the terms.
I mean, I know spring training's over, but I'm just not into all that.
No, that ’ s it. Thank you very much.
No. It versa according to the distance, you can read from the meter.
I think I have a piece of apple pie.
It can't be expressed by words.
cars might be convenient, but they're so bad for the environment.
Visual C + +, C and Delphi.
First, the visitors to the site are encouraged to give their contact information. They can sign up for a free monthly drawing. Once we've got their info, it goes into a database for future marketing mailers and advertising targeting. Also, there are clear links to descriptions of our products and services, so as to give confidence to new customers. We also added a specific area for on-line customer service... So far we've gotten a ton of positive feedback...
I want to buy two tickets for tonight's concert.
I've been trying to call him for the last ten minutes, but your line was busy. Will he be back soon?
OK. I'll take it.
I'm not sure what we need.
A Capricorn is serious-minded and practical. She likes to do things in conventional ways. That sounds just like you!
I think I'm going to keep it as a monument to what I've learned about money.
Well, I have been in a host home before. During my first year in the us, I stayed with a family. They are nice.
Whatever! Alright, I ’ ll concede the silly gramophone, if you ’ ll agree that I get the silver tea set.
I'm going to do that then.
Yeah, you're going to have to call them and get them to be re-faxed. These copies are so dark, I can't make out any of the words.
How did it finish?
Well, it rained hard all day and I had a bad cold, so I decided to stay home.
Regular will be fine. How long will it take?
Bulldog 123. Are you sure that's all?
How can I help you this afternoon?
Let me take your temperature with a thermometer.
I'm afraid the line is busy at the moment. Just hold on, please.
Although the weather here is very cold, the people are warm.
Yes, then enter the amount you want.
That's good.Cotton is soft and flexible.
Well, a classical guitar has nylon strings and its neck is bigger than a steel-string guitar ’ s. It’s best suited for finger picking. A steel-string is best for playing chords.
Stirred will be fine.
Yes. Anytime on Saturday will be fine.
Would it be convenient to see the room?
Try checking the connections.
He stood you up.
How far away is it?
Mick! Nice to hear from you again. How are you?
You are going to have a huge bill.
Perfect, and I like her charming eyes too.
Why you say bf before?
I'm sorry, Karen, but I can't. I have to work late this Thursday.
Perhaps. i just haven't had time to find them yet.
I've never thought about it like that before.
Tom has gone to lunch.
I think we'll buy this one. And I want you to try on this one too.
Yes. Should I take off my coat?
My father supports the family, and he is the sole breadwinner. My mother is a housewife.
We posted several positions. Which position are you looking for?
Umm... I think so. What's up?
I know, I know. Have you got a portable radio? You can listen to the news and get healthy at the same time.
Forget it. Good luck. I hope you can make it.
well, they ’ Ve got the money and she ’ s going tomorrow for treatment.
I suppose I'm a reasonable student. I passed all my tests and enjoyed studying subjects that interested me.
Mr Brown! How nice to see you, can I help?
Speaking of flight attendants, they keep smiling at me. I wonder why...
Well, I'm setting my watch at four. Thank you.
Hi, Tim, any news about your job interview?
I think an advertising planner should have active thoughts, creative talent, and be sensitive to the changes in the market.
At school, in China.This is my first time to be out of my own country.
Are you sure he used your name, Ma'am? Maybe he reserved under his name.
Our unit is participating in a fundraiser this weekend and would like to borrow the van, if possible.
Can you work over tonight?
Because he stayed with me all the time that night.
I got two. We can go there together.
As far as the language is concerned, it's worth reading.
Fine. As well, would you mind if I asked to see the Loyd's surveyor report of your products? I may have a few more questions about your quality analysis.
This is just right for me. I'll take this one.
I see. It's very nice of you to help me. Is this form alright?
What interesting places shall we visit?
Oh, maybe you can find something from the New York Times, or the Washington Post during that period.
Absolutely! They also have real Italian Galatian and French sorbets. They do a great baked Alaska.
To my mind, the success of Digest is in the clever selection of its articles in each issue.
How do you do, Miss Chen? I ’ m Song Mei.
It’s under the couch.
That's a notebook?
How long does that usually take?
Look at that pretty girl.
Write up the official notice in duplicate. Do not forget to put name cards and pens on the tables for our guests.
To tell you the truth, I have never thought of being a swimmer. I swim just for fun.
At 7, please.
You know what, Veronica, I think you should make the first step. I ’ m sure he ’ ll forgive you...
Are you a member of his fan club?
well, I grew up in Africa, so I learned quite a few different languages.
I'm looking forward to it.
It's surely worth going to. There are ten famous spots there.
Daniel. Mind your eye!
Yes, I did some part-time jobs such as English tutor, salesman, and model.
Please come in
That's great. And the garbage, too?
Tell me what you know about our company, please.
Thanks so much.
You'd better.
Yes, we've got great apartments with charming environment and nice scenery. And they are all newly renovated.
Sorry, baby, you are everything to me. all I do just for our family.
Were you suppose to be there?
All I can tell you is our next President got my vote.
Hey, you wanna see a movie tomorrow?
I suggest you use lipstick, which also accentuates your lips.
Hey, there ’ s Leo. I wonder why he ’ s walking arm in arm with that young woman.
Hi, can I assist you in any way?
Yes that's right. Do you know her? Is she your teacher too?
Boy, come here!
You are welcome. I am very impressed by your capability.
No, but you can let them know that yours is the cream of the crop-the purest motor oil in the world. Careful, hold it by the java jacket. This coffee drink has half and half-what do you think?
What kind of beef would you like to get?
who's the director?
Are smoke detectors provided?
Do I have to pay to use the machine?
Yeah. I've seen pictures of the crowds!
Don't believe what you see on TV. You will have a good time in New York.What things do you want to see?
Hi, Peter! How are you?
I ’ m a fashion designer.Next month, I have a fashion show. I ’ d love it if come. I can get you a couple of tickets.So you can bring a friend if you like.
That ’ s all I need.
Here is my card. Can I have them delivered to this address?
What do you do in order to improve your English?
Believe I will. Look for me near the lake.
I agree that 20 % would be just about right.
When did it become CABS?
Sounds quite fruitful, why do you call it still a nightmare then?
But how can I know which employer is hiring?
We'll notify you next Thursday at the latest. Shall I telephone you?
Ok that sounds good. Where shall I meet you?
Will you be getting another copy anytime soon?
No, I haven't. It is the first time for me to come to deposit money here.
He is cute. What dose he do?
Julia, I really love you. I hope I can stay with you no matter you are happy or sad in future.
I got it as a gift so I couldn't take it back. Good luck! I hope it will fit you!
You do seem like a better company than the other one.So I am willing to pay more than 4000 for you. But I won't pay more than 6000.
Do you have any idea how long it will take to clean customs?
I know, that's the problem. He can't find any customers. It's a pity, really, because his products are very good. Oh, that reminds me. Did I tell you about my new laptop?
It's horrible.
Small world, isn't it?
I'm pleased to meet you again, Mrs. King.
Is a white shirt OK?
The initial fee still must be paid.
What else should we do now after the floors are done and after the furniture is in?
Just what I thought!
What are you doing there with your mobile phone?
I just got laid off. The awful business, you know.
To whom should I report?
Just throw them away!
Of course, not.Let me check.Oh, you seem bo be correct.
Can I have a look at them?
It's hard to say. They all had an active campaign to round up the votes.
Have you decided on anything?
Yeah. And a semi jack-knifed trying to miss a stalled car in the fast lane. You can imagine what happened after that.
You are a good wife, Julia. But you must take care of yourself.
I don't know the reason.
Let me help you with that.
Well, Brad from school asked me out just today.
I will bring the diary.
No, could I also get some extra towels and soap too? We went to the pool today and used up our two clean towels.
Sure. But my beard is rough.
What about these? They are very fresh and exceptionally juicy.
Sir, one copy is ten cents.
Now the score is in our favor.
Can you find many bargains there?
Five hundred in hundred RIB notes and the others in ten RIB notes, please.
yes. You always have a good nose for wines.
well, my saddle is too low for me. Do you know how to change the height?
Yes, people surely can. He ’ s whiter than the Chinese kids, and his hair is a little blonde. My husband says his eyes are very Chinese though.
I saw on the tv yesterday that there has been another earthquake in Iran.
We can give you a discount if you order for immediate shipment.
Who is going to look after a dog or a cat?
Well, to be frank, yes, I do.
If there is any question about test results, we always do a recheck.
oh, I see. Office romance tends to be the subject of gossip.
Hello! Do you have any rooms available tomorrow night?
That ’ s great! I think they do you a lot of good.
Oh, certainly. Certainly. I'm always willing to help beginners.Just call me Big Brother Dave.
Before the New Year, we always send greeting cards to our relatives and friends to wish them a happy year. On the street and in stores people usually greet others with a ' Happy New Year '. It's also common for people to make a New Year's resolution.
My favorite, Mexican. And I've heard that the head chef is from San Paulo.
I believe that 10 % is just about right amount.
But it seems like a good idea. All I have to do is first send some money to the person who sent me the letter. After that he'll tell me how to earn much more money.
Women always have the last word.
The patio tables look really nice. Could we be seated there, please?
So, what happened?
It's a document from the seller to the buyer. It contains full particulars of the goods sold, such as quantity, quality, price, forwarding particulars, and terms of payment.
Mmm, smells good. Sure better than my instant. But please don't tell me this is another coffee-themed pitch. I thought I told you...
that will be fine.
I don ’ t like all your questions. That ’ s why.
Yeah, and they also take the blame, that's what happened to my old boss...
I ’ d like to make a reservation for my trip from Detroit to Beijing on April 13 on Trans Pacific Airline.
Okay, I ’ ll take it.
What a nuisance! Every time I plan to go canoeing or camping, a storm comes along. The sky gets dark, the wind starts to howl and the temperature drops.Well, I'd better stay home.
I can't stand being with you any more. I'm sick of your drinking.
Hi, Nally, are you hungry?
No. I can't paint. I'm asking for my niece. She is really into it.
You miss the point! We are not in a hurry to go anywhere.
Really? I can't believe it.
It's not. It's an ancient Greek word. It means gratitude.
the ones that are my age are close relatives. Now that I ’ m older, I don ’ t spend as much time with them as I used to, so I don ’ t know my younger cousins as well as the older ones.
Wow! Bali Islands have some of the best beaches in the world, don't they?
The science field trip is next Monday at 8 o'clock in the morning. Do you want to make note of that on your calendar?
That's fine. I want 2 tickets.
Let's stand in the line now.
I'm not, I am a vegan.
Okay. Do you have a particular size in mind?
No, but I do like snowboarding.
First of all, thank you for accepting this job.
I really need to learn this stuff.
Either one is OK.
What would you do after that?
yes, I'll be promoted to department manager.
it was three all.
Well, how did you enjoy your seaside trip?
sure I am. I work for myself, but I've rented a virtual office at an office building in the downtown area.
You know you didn't.
I only need one.
The view is breath-taking.
Well, let's see. The movie stars at 10. We should be there at least 1 hour earlier, because there is a big line. I could pick you up at your house at 8, if that's ok with you.
Here is the application form. I also need to see your student ID and your permission letter from the university.
I have got a Business English Certificate and a Certificate of TEM 8.
Just take them for your good friends and have a talk with them as we do. Make sure you won't lose your temper!
How do you know it's going to be so fun?
It's just sleeping pills made in America which is also very good. But don't worry. It has no undesirable side-effects.
Yes, but it's checked out.
Thank you very much! How long have you been working here?
At the close of escrow, the house will be yours!
Ok, Good night, see you at breakfast.
Oh. I am not a wall streeter.Give me an economy one please.
Thank you. By the way, what day is today?
My pleasure. You're a sweet couple. Do you have any questions?
How's your time spent in the United States?
What was he doing?
Realtors always get a commission.If the realtor helps us find something, we have to pay him.
How about going to dance? There is a very good nightclub nearby.
What are you buying?
Which of them is the local train, please?
No. Which one do you recommend?
One. And, if possible, I'm looking for a non-smoking room.
Where did you work in the past?
It says that it comes in teal and tangerine.
May I see some identification, sir, please?
That'll be $ 4.25... ( The customer gives her a 5 dollar bill. )... out of five. Here is your change, sir. Have a nice day.
And you're going to dust every piece of furniture in the house!
I genuinely appreciate this book.
Well, I could put you on a waiting list.But that doesn't guarantee you will get into the class. What is your name?
The score was 101-98.
she's my cousin.
You'll have to have some laboratory examinations to know for sure.
Oh, right. This one, right?
"What do you mean by "" us ""? "
I see. Here's the extra 5 $ for you if you can get me there on time.
I am quite alive and energetic. I am a curious person, and I like to learn new things.
Usually it's two dollars off the cover price.
Well... perhaps you should think about it.
You may take a No. 34 bus. And the subway can also take you there.
Hmm. Well, we have some alternatives, if you're interested.
How was Mei ’ s party on Saturday?
You're too humble.
Are you kidding? The meter says 15 dollars, doesn't it?
Didn ’ t you sleep well last night?
It's meanly about relationship between a brother and a sister, who live in the mill on the river floss. It describe there are childhood and disputes cause them to separate, the book ends with them ha
Yes, on the shipper's side, when the cargos arrives, all relevant documents will be forwarded to the consignee.Among other things, this party has to check carefully the content of the packing list and weight list.When cargos are found to be damaged of short landed, this party has to call for a joint survey by representatives of the shipping company and the insurance agent.Based on the survey report, they will lodge a clam for compensation.
I know. This is terrible. What can we do? This snow doesn't stop falling!
I would very much enjoy taking a Psychology class.Because I'm crazy.
Oh, Taylor! I'm so... so happy. But then... who's that?
well that's what being friends is about, isn't it?
much better than it did yesterday.
Is there a bus that'll go all the way to Sons from PHS?
Yes, I am. I have life insurance and my home and its contents are also insured.
We are interested in some precision machine tools. We have some inquires on hand.
All under the precept of keeping the funding? That stinks.
That happens. Without close quality examination, we may encounter fraud, and the e-shop may suddenly disappear.
Yes. Just think the blue sky, sunshine, mouth-watering food, centuries-old castles - -
I was thinking of buying this from the bookstore when my father got this from the library... anyway, how much should I pay?
To tell you the truth, I don ’ t know if I ’ m a Christian or not. Christians don ’ t often share the same belief. But I believe that we all possess, by the grace of God, the potential to create fantastic changes on this earth.
that's amazing! Has she bitten you yet?
that's true. Beijing is the political, economic and cultural center of the entire country.
All right. Here you go.
I came to your store yesterday and have come back today to make a final decision. I think I like the black leather suite. It’s on sale, isn't it?
Good day to you. How can I be of service today?
No, but probably until there is a break in the storm.
Great! You are all set to enjoy the library.
That's a gay bar.
We ’ re in the same boat! I ’ Ve eaten fast food the whole week. I hate it now.
Nothing works with my toothache now.
May I have a try?
Let me see...
When I do push-ups, should I bend my elbows so that my nose touches the ground?
No, if you take some care when you use them.
I don't really like green apples that much.
I need a haircut.
Do you like coffee, Ann?
You ’ re back already? The water was too cold, huh? I ’ ll tell you a secret. Do you see that small pool of water over there? It ’ ll be warmer in there. Go see if you can find some seashells or catch some minnows.
Some aspirin or Panadol should help. You can pick some up at the pharmacy when you go to fill your prescription.
We don't have much snow in winter in Beijing. In fact, we haven't had any so far this winter. The winter is rather long, but the cold is generally not severe. The temperature seldom gets as low as ten below zero Centigrade.
Could you give more detail information about some of the industries you just mentioned?
You have a total of 21 days paid time off which can be used for vacation, personal, or sick leave.
I was going to eat in, I'm short on cash.
Just fine, and you?
No. It's all Greek to me.
He always says I am a hard worker with consciousness of responsibility, sufficient education, and enough experience.
Hello, May I help you?
I have him this semester. What do you think about him?
You need to get off on Fair Oaks and Washington.
Really, what's going to happen now?
We are on the top floor.
This is the end, Jane. I don't want a girlfriend who goes out with other guys all the time.
All of the produce is in aisle A.
How do you check for high blood pressure?
Just a moment and I'll check. We ’ re expecting a delivery on Friday. We've only got ten in stock at the moment. I can deliver those by first thing tomorrow morning. There'll be an extra charge for special delivery. I'll have to send them by courier.
Was there anyone else with you?
did you pass?
Would you like it on the rocks, sir?
You mean you like to study English? Why?
Is my VCR ready?
Sure, wait a moment.
Thank you. We'll take care of it. Please let us know if there's anything else we can do to make your stay more comfortable.
Yes, sir.Go ahead.
It is proposed that from now on, employees will be given 10 paid sick days, in addition to their 2 week vacation periods. They will also be encouraged to maintain proper physical health with a company sponsored aerobics class on Friday nights. We have also consulted with the human resource department and have hired a new liaison between management and employees. Let ’ s all welcome Ms. Michelle Cain to our team as our company ’ s ombudsman.
My parents called. As usual, they reminded me again that I should have a plan to marry by my late 20s.Easier set than done. Who should I marry? I have no time to go on a date.
Definitely, but if you had to pinpoint one weakness what would it be?
I guess I should just withdraw everything.
Mmmm... and exactly how many times did you enter it, please?
We have the room color designed for our guest.
You're welcome. May you have a good time. Please give my regards to your wife. I wish her a happy birthday tomorrow.
How long is this bus ride?
A cup of coffee, please.
Are you married or single?
He has a mustache, if I remember correctly, and a light complexion.
Sure. It’s like understanding on the telephone — — you can ’ t see the speaker! It’s great for improving listening comprehension.
Yes. But first you must observe the visiting hours, It's from 2 to 5 p. m. By the way, consult the nurse before you enter the ward.
We're going to the beach for the weekend.
OK, let's go and ask.
Yes. Have a look.
don't you think that it'd be a good thing for you to get out of the office for a couple of days?
Yeah, let's do so.
I need one full set of sheets in King-size.
I have worked here long time.
Probably not. Doing that will probably take another three hours which I can't afford now.
Oh! How could I forget such an important holiday?
Qi In is.
Well, that depends. Tell me where you want to go?
I like one with flowers on its brim.
I see. Does he live by himself?
Well, I am certainly going to take chemistry and physics, but I haven't decided on the other subjects yet. I ’ d like to take English.
You're right. Thank you for the advice.
A big one would be nice.
We will have this one first and order something else later.
Thanks, doctor. Is there anything I can take for this headache?
I don't want cheese on it.
You see, that ’ s what I ’ m talking about, I can ’ t stand your sarcastic jokes anymore.
Yes, the reviving mask will promote blood circulation and tighten your skin. You can also choose to get hand or back massage as well.
What kind of music do you like?
In such a big family, there must be a head. Who's the head of your family?
I think he deserved his gold.
It is very similar. The technology is the same.
On this evening's dessert list, we have chocolate mousse cake, homemade fresh strawberry shortcake, and a spicy rum apple crisp.
Now what are you doing?
Do you have any product that controls frizz?
I am sorry for damaging your car, sir.
I already told you, because Julia Roberts is in it. I like her because she is not only a great actor but also is very generous to give a lot to many kinds of charities.
If I were your date, I would be so charmed by you.
I can manage on my own. Thanks.
What are you saying? You are acting weird today.
I'm afraid I don ’ t.
Maybe that's true. I don't know.But I'm sure in Taiwan you have prescriptions too.
Great! What if I need to print something in the lobby?
You see, This time I traveled to the West. When I looked out of the windows of the rain, all the lands that I could see are as dry as a bone.
I have a tuition scholarship from the university. Otherwise I ’ m on my own.
I don't know what to have. If you don't mind, I'll just leave the choice to you.
Yeah. He ’ s almost become a slave, his wife is leading him by the nose.
I took a lot of courses, such as Philosophy, Logic, Ethics, Aesthetics, etc.
No matter what, you are still my hero, Daniel.
January would be a good month for a mountain retreat.
Oh, yes. Arm, well, what exactly is it that interests you about the job?
Let ’ s go to Wangfujing by bus.
You can't go down on the price.
Yes, it is. As you know, some of the materials we use are highly-flammable so we have a very strict non-smoking policy in the factory.
Richard, Mary is a very helpful and experienced secretary indeed, and I'm sure you will find out.
Beam and Perrier. Anything else, sir?
Surely of course.Here you are.
Hey, Doug! How ’ d it go at that meeting yesterday? I know you were pretty anxious about it.
No, by train. I think it's much safer than bus.
Do you know a place that sells pizza and burgers?
No, I haven't. What's going on?
Mr. Bergeron, you leave us no alternative. We can not give you an exclusive agency of the whole European market without having the slightest idea of your possible annual marketing turnover. Besides our price is worked out according to the costing. A 10 % commission means an increase in our price. We must have the reaction of the buyers in this respect.
I'll get my things and meet you there.
Not anymore! Can you believe it? They've decided that Pluto is not a planet anymore!
Come on. Don ’ t hesitate.
What's this? Essential oil? Wow! This stuff is expensive.
Well, just because it's you. Tomorrow, say around noon.
My friends? Fat? What about those whales you call friends?
See? And I bet that's easy to do online. Everybody's anonymous.
As far as I remember, we sold about 40,000 pairs last year to you alone. Don't you think this annual turnover is rather conserve - time for a sole agent?
I spent it on a bag of chips.
it is, but it's very rewarding.
I want to post it to Shanghai.
( XXXXXXXXXX ) OK ( XXXXXXXXXX ).
Excuse me. Nature calls.
Hi, Natasha, how's life?
How about rumba?
Yes, my little Paul is finally a doctor. They grow up so fast you know.
I ’ ll try the vegetarian, please.
No, you haven ’ t. You just don ’ t care about me. You ’ re an indifferent husband.
No. I never sell my artwork.
No, don't bother. I think I'm OK.
Yeah, I know. You are right.
This one here.
Yes, what else should we think of?
I don't know. I have no idea.
Give me a package of twenty, then. And where do I find shoelaces?
Well, I go jogging every morning, eat a healthful diet and work out in a gymnasium twice a week.
It sounds wonderful. Did you take lunch with you?
At Tinge Depot.
Drop in if you're free.Bye for now!
It wasn't cold out this morning.
It’s because of good quality and the fine design.
One dollar. Drop it in the box. Move to the rear of the bus. There are plenty of seats in the rear.
I am looking for a pan.
I think Andy's party will be fun.
I am not sure if I will be home later.
That is wonderful.
They're all waiting for you. Let's join them. I'm going to cut the cake soon.
Yes, I think you ’ re right. I ’ m thinking about having a child, but not just yet.
Well, depends. You see, there are eight famous Chinese food cuisines, for instance, sichuan cuisine and HUNAN cuisine.
What do you think of the new mayor?
I'll be careful. Don't worry. I don't want to get arrested by the FBI.But how long does the White House tour last?
really well, thanks.
What is the international community doing to help?
Yeah. There's a lot we can do to help him through this transition.
Basically, I ’ Ve got a few concerns about him, and the bottom line is, I don ’ t think he ’ s a good fit for our company.
You're right, it's a low percentage. Also, in order to attend meetings, you have to hold a certain amount of shares. It's quite a large number, so most of the stockers are excluded from proceedings.
All right. May I have your name, Sir?
Excellent. I would be happy to get started on it.
Hello, I'd like to see Mr. Baker for some business.
Exactly, it was my favorite class.
Don't worry, Mr. Brown. Let me try to check it for you. One moment, please. Yes, I have your account number here. The balance is exactly RIB 12,000
Welcome back movie lovers to another Premier Movie Review. My name is Richard Clarke and I am joined today by the very erudite DavidWatson.
It'll take us all some time to get used to the change.
Sweet little lassie. Yep, broke her heart when the D-man told her he couldn't be a one-woman guy.
Yes, I have two brothers who live in New York and a sister who lives in Boston.
Six tens will be fine.
All wet.You are such a fool.
Sure. A check will be fine.
We add all of these up and divide by this and that gives us this percentage.
Unfortunately, you'll have to go to the computer lab for your printing needs.
The van will be driven by Mary and me.
We contact through email.
You mean that he is bad-tempered and often gets angry with you.
Are you okay, man? You don ’ t look very well.
Yes, I have already done that and they already look for it. I ’ ll leaving soon and I need my vise and identity cards badly.
that's right! I almost forgot about that.
How do I use the powder?
Sure. It's to raise money for the homeless.
Who wouldn't? Wow, that's out of this world.
Yes, I did. There ’ s an anti-virus programme with my email account that scans all attachments, so I ’ m sure I haven ’ t sent anything nasty to anyone.
Well, a business suit usually takes ten days ' time. But in your case, we'll try to have it ready sooner. How about coming for your fitting on the 8th? Then your suit will be ready for you on the 10th?
But it's very tired.
He has come to life in the end.
I have no idea. Maybe I will sleep for the whole day.
That's right. The company pays for all your medical bills and there is also some financial compensation if you have to take days off to see doctors or spend time recuperating.
You're not sure? You were going at 90 miles per hour! That's 25 mph over the legal speed limit! Have you been drinking?
That's outrageous! I just don't understand why they're not on top of this.
Counterfeit notes these days can be very sophisticated and difficult to spot with the naked eye. But I must warn you that if it does show to be a counterfeit I have no option but to confiscate it.
It’s a great school.
Did you think that the food was any good?
OK. If you sign the Stars.com account before WebTracker does, we'll talk next week.
There are many sources, such as newspaper, Internet and direct visit.
We are really in a hurry.
Do you have a car?
Not bad. But she's as busy as before.
Will you have desert to be, madam?
Yes. It could happen.
20-30 %. But we proposed the plan from the storage and delivery viewpoint. That is to say, less warehouse space and prompt delivery.
I was just wondering if many Chinese people take their leftover food home from a restaurant.
Mike, did you win the lottery or something? Why the big smile?
OK.Take care.
Yes, and I look many pictures.
Hi, nice to hear from you, when does your plane leave?
Australia? Oh, there's about twenty million people in Australia right now. A little bit under, but close to twenty.
It’s about bob Dylan.
Lady! This is unfair! I've been cheated! I was in line before you.That should have been my ticket! Come on, hand it over, lady!
Mr. : Would you like to go to the nurse's?
Yes. The stimulation mask promotes blood flow and will firm up the skin. You can also choose to either get a hand or back massage as well.
No, I can only carry on a simple conversation in French.
Well, if you want we can go together sometime. Actually I was thinking of going this afternoon, if you like, you can join me and I can show you the neighborhood along the way.
Is it possible to make a compliant call to some organization what It’s someone gets rip-off.
My fax machine ’ s on the blink. Would you take a look at it?
alright, tell me what you think.
Oh, It’s one of those places.
That's great. It's most thoughtful of you to do this, Miss Rose.
I can't afford to miss my 9:40 flight.
Yes, I spent so much time sightseeing here. It is already so late now. I am afraid I can't catch the last bus back to downtown.
I really don't know how to break this to you, but It’s eating me alive!
Hey Joe, what are you doing in this department store?
what do you do when you see a homeless person on the streets begging for money?
There's a new girl in school, have you seen her yet?
Take it easy. They will get caught.
No way! I spent 20 years of my life with relatives around me 24-7. you know, I don ’ t think I ’ Ve ever actually spent any time by myself in my parents ’ home. What do you think of the one-child policy in China?
Ouch! The water's too hot!
Welcome to our department. I hope you'll like it here.
How long will it take for them to get here?
Yes, I'm looking for a house.
I went to the university of Ohio, in America.
So sorry. Next time we'll go, thanks anyway.
Got it. Anything else?
It's exciting news! If we find a second solar system, we might find a second earth!
Exactly, next, you should hold your legs together and extend your arms above your head.
Yes, I'm really weak in maps, I did poorly in high school.
Oh, what ’ s she like?
Of course, that's my job. Oh, dear. What's happened?
Can I move out before those three years?
I would like to check out now.My room number is 712.
Alright.At least that's better than sitting in a bar with your alcoholic friends.
Aren't you tired?
Here are your keys. I ’ ll send my sister to pick up the rest of my things next week. I ’ m sorry, Tim. I wish you all the best, and I hope that one day we can meet again. I ’ ll always love you. Goodbye.
Drop 50 cents in the box, please.
Oh you ’ re exaggerating. I ’ m never really good at making hairdo.
It's over there. Have a good trip.
Do people cook a lot of special dishes for the holiday?
The interesting thing is to see what really works and what's just hype.
Donna? Well. She is about 20. She is very lovely and I think you will like her. What about Paul?
A B plus.
Where can I find the bus?
Business couldn't be better.
Alright, I ’ ll buy this one.
A table-cloth of this size and style is 15 Yuan.
There were some gaps in your report. Please be more sorrow.
I'm sorry, but I have an appointment this evening.How about tomorrow evening?
And, is it what you found?
Yeah. We went to a movie last Saturday. We saw Police Partners II.
Pretty well, thanks. We ’ Ve just been incredibly busy! I need to set up a meeting for Mr. Graham.
I agreed, Hi, guess what? I went bungee jumping last weekend.
You ’ re right. But you know It’s so hard to give up the old habit like smoking.
Sometimes the traffic is too busy.
Yes, I have been working for eight hours.
I ’ m ok. I ’ m so busy!
I'm not sure. I promised to help my sister move Saturday.
Oh, sorry, I've totally forgotten that you are a workaholic.
Is it always cold in Chicago and Boston?
Those are beautiful. Do you have any in a size six?
Yes. The government has limited funds and must show that it is using the money responsibly.
That ’ s all right. Everyone feels under the weather sometimes. Just finish the rest when you feel well.
Wonderful! How much is the ticket?
Ha-ha. Birth control and abortion are four-letter words in my family.
Do you want to rent a car?
Yes. I'd like to make a room reservation.
Ever since I brought home some bad grades in elementary school, they never expected much.
Hello, Ann! Is that you?
Well, their team work is well worth learning.
Sorry, you have the wrong number. There's no Brian here.
Fine, thanks. Mr. Emory would like to meet with Mr. Macmillan tomorrow afternoon. Can you take a look at his book?
Yes, I found it again.
That sounds like a good idea! But I'm afraid my mom will be angry about it.
Ah, yes, Miss Chang. What seems to be the problem?
This is how a holiday should be. Relaxing on the beach with a nice cool drink.
Well, I'm not too happy about it.
Yes, but he was supposed to be back by now.
As long as I don ’ t have to row.
Well, we'll supply you with an apartment of a bedroom and a living room.
I'd love to, but I have to get up early tomorrow and get to the office on time.
Well. Ok, I will take it.
Your intention is good, but I still can't agree with you. If no one would like to share it with you, you have to pay it all by yourself.
April 2nd. I missed being a target of a lot of jokes by one day. I guess I am lucky, too!
I remember Hugh. Most people thought he was a little... uh... peculiar. Do you know what he ’ s doing now?
I'm going over to the gym. I want to do some running.
Yes, for the last 20 years.
No. sir, we charge separately.
My pleasure, and have a good time!
I'm not sure NASA has built any portable habitats for extended stays on Mars, but they have looked at various designs.
Excuse me, is this the parcel counter?
Are you planning on voting?
Oh yes-five days a week.You have to visit customers all over the territory.
oh? What's that?
Now, let me take your temperature. Please put this thermometer under your armpit and let me feel your pulse?
I'm sorry sir, but we are fully booked tonight until eight.
Glad to meet you. Mr Stewart. I'm the guide from Pacific Tour Agency. My name is Zhang Hua.
During that horrible rainstorm last night, my roof began to leak.
Are you interested in purchasing on the lake, or would you like a home with a view?
Well, the weather is so unpredictable this time of year.
Everyone in our class enjoyed it too.It ' s very interesting.
Imagine a chef chopping vegetables on fast forward. Picture a man making a stir-fry, tossing the mixture up in the air, and then catching it, every last bit, in his work. And his culinary motto is ' Enjoy the moment. ' If you want to know hey theycook, visit www.StudioClassroom.com.tw for the recipe.
Pure gold ones, please. This is so beautiful. I'll take it.
I was in my friend's room talking for an hour of so.
This watch is supposed to be worn on your left hand.
Sorry, I'm not interested in vinegar.
thank you. I couldn't wait any longer to have a taste.
That's nice. And I need a pre-paid phone card.
I'm sorry. I'm attending a meeting at the Hilton then.
I enjoy having your daughter in my class.
I don't think drinking requires any special purposes. For us people in the West, the purpose is generally quite simple-to savor the wine.
Just coke will be fine.
How much is the ticket?
Probably you ’ re right.
That is truly amazing!
Well, if there ’ s anything I can do for you, let me know.
Oh, not so bad. I've been very busy, but I'm going away on holiday soon.
I would like everything on it, thank you.
I would love large curly fries.
Maybe you should.
I have been working on it for a whole month and it's too late to write another. Just think of all my hard work that goes for nothing. How could I do such a thing?
people joke about the benefits of the increase in temperature, but it's not all good news. They've been experiencing a lot of deadly storms there as well.
I see. Well, this bank offers many different accounts of this nature. There are 7 to choose from
How far should I go?
We can have it to you at that time.
I am very impressed.
O. K. See you.
San Francisco? No, sir.We only have this office here. You will have to return it here.
Ok. Let ’ s get to work on our advertising campaign.
OK.Thanks for asking me.
I like listening to different kinds of music.
Of course.You look terrific in it!
There is something wrong with my credit card.
Ok. Does he know your number?
Yes. Did you forget?
Only three days on business so I won't have a long time.
Mr. Sandals, I've worked here five years without seeing one cockroach.
Oh. Yes. It is
Could you hold the elevator, please? Thanks a lot.
Yes, certainly.Would you wait for a few minutes?
I will. Many thanks, Mr.Black.
I see there are some workmen on the site. When is the building work due to start?
By the way, my name is Liu Wei.
Yes. Thirty-eight point seven. Do you have a headache, chestache or throat pain?
What should we take?
No, we don't. I am sorry. It's 30 dollars and 10 cents in total.
You can reach me at 13661306917.
Yes. How would you like it?
Yes, I packed my books in it. Thank you.
well, I finished my last final today.
OK, I will send the information to you.
What do you think? I ’ m a good boy.
that ’ s a good idea. You should do the same with some music. You might find something you like. Classical music might make you clever, but dance might make you livelier and happier.
I hear we'll have a new English teacher this semester.
Here. We have black, white and transparent panty-hose here.
Are you thinking about a public school or a private one?
She takes classes in accounting and business.
Sure, but every coin has two sides. Doing business through the internet is not as safe as doing business through traditional ways.
Only 25 minutes or so. We ’ ll send somebody to meet you. That ’ s 11:30 a. m. Friday the 15th?
Sure, I will. How can I miss that?
Sure. So what about you? Do you have any hobbies?
No problem.How would you like to pay?
Do you know what kind of flowers she likes?
Yes, we met last year at a conference.
We need someone rather quickly, the sooner the better.
Check out please.
Did it affect you much?
I know that. But it's pity for us to lose such a good neighbour. You know I always appreciate Tom's company.
I would like to exchange Chinese RIB for American dollars. Do you accept $ 100 bills?
I have a test tomorrow.
He is so kind. I couldn ’ t believe he murdered his wife.
You will have to take your driving test. Have you taken it yet?
Where are the panty-hose?
This job pays sixty-five thousand dollars per year.
Let's just hope it doesn't get cold again.
Match is important ; well, the way of tying is also important.
I know but I was busy with my part-time job the last few days.
Great, thanks. I was calling to change our meeting next week.
How many employees do you have in this plant?
Oh, yes. I should be there some time next spring.
I ’ m very sorry, Miss Parks, but the 9:05 flight is completely booked. I can put you on a waiting list if you would like.
Absolutely not! You are highly contagious! You don ’ t want to infect the rest of your co-workers do you? I recommend staying in bed for at least three days and drinking plenty of fluids so you don ’ t get weak and dehydrated. You can catch up on all the latest TV shows and movies!
That's why it is so popular. It was recorded by Barbara Tutin. I've heard that when she sang this song on stage the opening night, she created quite a sensation.
I will be driving my car.
Hey Mike. I forgot about registration. I'm a day late, so all the classes are mostly full. What do you think I should do?
You really have a bid head, don't you!
I love apple pie.
Hello, let me introduce myself. I'm your neighbor. My name is Shirley.
OK, 400 Yuan please.
I hope we don't have any more blackouts.
This dish is really delicious.
I know but I have no choice. My stomach just keeps crying for more and more.
not very far from here. We'll fly. It's about one and a half hours.
Oh, I'm very sorry about that. You can change it for another one if you prefer.
I hear your sister has had an accident, is it true?
Two weeks and I would like to go abroad.
You can either list your job experience next or your education--whichever is the most impressive should be first.
When can I get high speed internet installed?
That sounds like a good place to take a date. Can you make a reservation for me?
We'll be making the decision by the end of this week and we'll contact you as soon as possible.
Looks like anything fun makes you excited.
Aren't you Jim Green?
Ah I see, yes you do sound rather croaky.Well let ’ s have a look, shall we? Could you please open your mouth and say ah.
Let me see.Oh, we have the design but not the same color as this one.
Great! They're the very books I want.May I borrow two books?
It's very nice.It goes well with your skirt.
I ’ m sorry, Mr. Richard. Mr. Johnson is on his way to the office. He had just called and asked you to wait a minute.
I ought to make the most of it while I'm here, don't you think?
Could you take a picture of me to my friend?
Early this morning.
Did you watch the Oscars on Sunday night?
All right.There we go.
in my country, there ’ s a time limit on the advertisements that can be shown. I think It’s about six minutes per hour.
The only official way is to go to Bank of China.
You just follow me.
Thank you for shopping here.
Ladies should wear professional suits, either classical style or free style. It would be appropriate to wear a little or no make-up.
You can find it in most restaurants, but the best place is certainly Quanjude Restaurant.
Don't you know about Kentucky's?
I think the principle of co-production is to expand export trade. It's a reciprocal business, isn't it?
Please. Just to double check all the details.
I am not in the mood.
Yeah, you did. I just forgot to call.
Don't worry about that, I am sure they will understand. After all, it was a very difficult exam.
I have booked you for one window seat on American airline flight No. 409. Have a good trip!
You can try a low-impact workout schedule. Why don't you go to a gym?
Oh look! What a great little bib for the baby! This will definitely come in handy! Oh wow, you also got me a stroller! That ’ s so great! Thank you!
Wait for a moment, I'll come back soon.
All right. I ’ ll call you back later.
Thank you for your caring. I will.
Here's the cash for you.
Really good! you should try it sometime.
How do you want your hair cut?
what else can we do to protect the environment?
I will receive a Bachelor's degree.
Oh, you are so nice. What a lovely scarf.
So, are we all behind this new project?
Hello. I'm here to get my salary.
Could you please sign the back of the card?
I ’ d like extra prints made of these photos.
I have to find something.Otherwise I have to go back to Taiwan. I'll be broke in two months.
Would you please help me with my luggage?
My grandfather did that too. He used the time to study instead.
I'm very sorry, sir. My car has broken down.
Keep walking till you pass the square, then turn right. Walk past two lights and turn left at the third.
That's a long time! Was the weather OK?
That ’ s a little expensive.
We are playing against Hainan.
GMAT? What does that stand for and what will the test contain?
Are you planning on treating the investors to a full-course meal?
He was really influenced by the way they do things on the west coast. I guess the working atmosphere is a lot more relaxed and casual in California. It comes from the information technology industry.. there isn't such a large division between home and office, so people want to work in the clothes they feel more relaxed in.
Thank you very much, Mr. Parker. But, that is my job.
You'll take the blue line until you reach Xizhimen. That's a big station, so there will likely be a lot of people getting off at that stop. You can transfer to the lightrail there, you'll have to exit the subway and present the unused portion of your combination ticket to the Ticketmaster, they'll give you a new ticket to use on the lightrail system.
I'm okay, thank you. I already checked out the address on MapQuest.
Matthew, do you know much about body language in countries around the world?
I bet that Lee wasn't too happy with that!
Um, I think there may be some leftover lasagna from the other day.
Right. Look, why don ’ t we make a list of the problems we ’ re dealing with. It ’ ll be easier to work through them that way.
Thank you very much!
Please go to see a doctor.
OK. Your name, please?
OK, I suppose, but she's had a rough time in the last few years, She got divorced.
Okay, count me in.
Just plug the Ethernet cable into your computer, and you'll be online in a heartbeat.
Here is my passport. And this is the declaration form.
All right. Let's go.
Do you know Jeffery has published his second detective novel?
Do you have a return ticket?
He has a finger in the pie.
Why do you read them?
But I am new here, and I'm not sure he is used to that.
You are right, you've just missed the lunchtime rush. Could you fill out a withdrawal slip, please?
Yes, it is, sir.
How about your bowel movements?
And can you get a seat?
Have you ever driven a car before?
Sure. How do you like your money?
Jack wonders whether Linda likes him or not.
I think you'll like the experience, sir. It's a great workout.
Nothing planned. How about you?
It is reported that the temperature is going to drop dramatically tonight.
Ask me a question? What do you want to know?
The main one is radiation. There are two sorts of radiation man must fear in space. The first is radiation from the sun, and this is particularly dangerous when the sun is very active and explosions are occurring on its surface. The second, less harmful, comes from the so-called Van Allen Belts.
About 18 years, I started learning when I was a kid.
Yup. But, this also means we have to wait to order our food.
I know. I know. But I don ’ t want any worms.
Peach blossom is really beautiful.
Do you drive a motorcycle or an automobile?
Oh, would you please turn off the fire? My hands are sticky with the dough.
I can only spend $ 300 a month.
You should present the best of yourself in order to achieve success in the interview.
I ’ m glad to know that you think the apartment is so nice.
Therefore, I think I'll explore New York some more. But I need to store my bags.
Yeah, but today he was really hyper. He even got on the monkey bars and then he went on to go on the swings for a half hour. I'm exhausted!
I am a size 6.
Generally it will arrive within a week.
What's he like normally?
Stop picking on me. I am going to be mad.
So Baltimore is winning?
Where's Cindy?
Yes. I have found some through different channels.
Why is DEL better?
Oh, this way please.What size do you wear?
Yeah, the new ones can be tricky. What are you trying to buy?
Of course! I'm not only going to wear red underwear, but I'm going to wear red socks and a red shirt, too!
That sounds like fun.Would you mind some company?
Sure, no problem. Do you happen to have the receipt?
I am not a rumor monger.
That word is pronounced kitchen.
Well, we've settled everything in connection with this transaction except the question of the mode of payment.
The disease fails to respond to drugs.
With my dinner, please. And can you take my order for dessert later?
Do you really think that that excuses your tardiness?
You are in the right place. Please come on in!
Just get the basics.
Since it's not working, I'm going to give you a credit.
That's great. But can't you make the rent cheaper, Let's see, 12,000 yuan?
Maybe you should let me know about your plan. I want to take my kids there some day. too.
My goodness.She is thirty seconds faster than the world records in five thousand meters race.
It doesn't taste good?
Are you kidding? I ’ m terrible! But I love to watch sports. I go to football or baseball games a lot. And I read sports magazines every week.
Actually, I've told them a lot about you. They are excited to meet you.
Don't be that negative.
Your lease isn ’ t up yet.
Why do people like all this fancy, expensive underwear?
I will try my best to persuade her to reconsider the divorce. But are you sure that from now on you will be faithful to her forever?
And for such a big quantity, you should give us a discount.
It would be better for me to just deal with getting my work done, but thank you for a lovely dinner.
Where should I put my overcoat and briefcase after entering the office?
Our Afghan customers wanna buy China's tea. I am thinking of placing an order with you.
But you forgot to get the bread.
Certainly, Sir. I'd be happy to. The Personal Pledge Loan is a loan secured by undue certificates, Time Deposits, for example, or Visible Treasury Bonds.
That's settled then. I'll contact you later.
Lady, you look unhappy. What ’ s the beef?
of course, that's something really irritation. And the only way to avoid being trapped is to know in advance about the real worth of the stuff. I recommend you to consult the price tags in the superb
I bet he will come.
Yes, I prefer a more contemporary design.
Not if you pay for it. For example, if you download from iTunes and pay with your credit card, it's legal.
We assure you that shipment will be made no later than the first half of October.
I will. Thanks. That's sweet of you.
On all our new cars, the standards includeair conditioning, anti-lock brakes, air bags, and an AM / FM stereo with a CD player.But on the Accord, there is another standard item as well.The Accord com
No, not every day.
I can promise you that, if you buy our product, you will be getting A-l quality.
That would be me!
How amazing! I have never seen it before. Is it expensive?
The rent each month is $ 1050.
I'm looking for a black, leather bag.
This is unfair.
I went to Paris.
Cookouts often start slowly. A two o ’ clock start means you arrive any time after two.
Hello, my name is Paula. Nice to meet you!
Just this suitcase.
No, I want to buy a car, and that's going to take every penny I've got.
How much can I change 100 dollars for?
I'm glad you're replacing it. We need more space to work on things. How deep will the new workbench be?
They ’ re fine, but I can ’ t watch a movie without popcorn.
I can be reached at my office during work hours and at home in the evening. My office phone number and home phone number are in my resume.
Hello, Janet. It's me... Oh, fine. Just fine. Say, Janet, I was wondering if you and Tom were doing anything tonight... No? Well. would you like to come by our place and play a few hands of bridge?
Yes. I'll be back at the same time as usual.
My husband and I got married in a registry office with just two friends there as witnesses. But then we had three parties to celebrate.
What ’ s the minimum amount I can deposit in an account?
Have you had the flu lately?
I don't know why people are just mad about David Peckham. Is there really anything so fascinating with him?
It's all the way to the back. See that yellow door?
I was really scared when he pulled the gun out.
That's all right. I'm almost finished. Do you need my help?
Seriously? But you are such a genius.
How do I buy my textbooks?
I knew you would say that! Then you should play the slot machines.
Sir, tell us about your experience with Super Bulk-up.
We'd like you to come to work for us.
Sure. Oh, that reminds me. Could I borrow your black leather boots?
Please open the black case.
I ’ m a bit upset about this year ’ s bonus. I was really expecting a little more. Are there any problems with my work?
Yes. They were open this morning when I came to work. They must've finished remodeling. Why do you want to know?
I'm not hungry, Mom.
Good idea. There is a good nightclub nearby, isn't it?
Have you ever seen a hurricane?
It faces south with a hillside view.
Well, as the saying goes – we aim to please!
Yes. We come at the right time.
Why do I need to do that?
Well, I would say that I ’ m just drifting - - - here, in the pool.
One way trip or round trip?
I really don't have enough money.
I hate school!
You're right. Girls love Barbie. Show me a Barbie doll.
And I hope so. This is what you were meant for. Say you love me, say yes, say yes.
Oh, really! It looks so different. Our old place turns into a brand new place.
yes, doesn't everyone?
Next Tuesday? Just a moment. It will be the twenty-first of May? Oh, dear. Hum, I promised my aunt I ’ ll be at her birthday party.
So, we could use it to pay for my son's living expenses, not just his tuition?
It’s mild. but It’s not always pleasant.
I'd love to continue this conversation, but I really need to go now. I have to get back to the office.
What are you going to do after you return from Washington?
Really? How to do that?
Yeah. It's beautiful. Is it white gold or silver?
I heard there is a big yard sale at weeks this saturday morning, i will go there to see if there is some nice clothes, do you want to go with me?
Okay, here you are. ( She hands the completed form and the money to the clerk. )
What kind of apples do you like?
Yes. It has been a long time since the last time we met.
I would get DEL if I were you.
I'm not sure.You look familiar.
Well, let's stop dragging our feet and find a Sichuan Hotpot restaurant for dinner!
We'll be taking everything offline in about two hours ' time. It'll be down for a minimum of twelve hours. If everything goes according to plan, it should be up again by 6 pm on Saturday.
We need the best possible quality.
Excuse me, Alex?
absolutely, many Chinese enterprises are going global, and they are in great need of excellent returnees to help them with their overseas business.
It's $ 120 per yard including a 5 % discount.
Are you interested in today's special?
Yes, sir. What's the matter?
A pipe in my apartment is leaking.
I have a small family. They are my parents, my younger brother and me.
Certainly, madam. I'll be right back. Here is a blanket and hot water for you. Anything else?
She's alright.
It depends on what you're trying to do with the completion of the course.
Do I have to pay an installation fee?
That's good to know, because I do travel quite frequently.
Oh, that's too short-lived.
No coal has been discovered in my country, but there may be undiscovered deposits. We don ’ t have many metal deposits.
Really? But I can smell alcohol on your breath. Blow to the breathalyzer, please.
What a surprise we've met here!
I don't think I performed well.
Well, I heard that last year Vivian from accounting won a new car!
I completely forgot about your cat allergy. I took care of a cat for my friend here a few days ago. Oh no. we'd better go to the doctor and get some medicine. Let's go.
They are muslims on a pilgrimage to mecca. Muslims call this pilgrimage “ haj ”.
Don ’ t you think in that case, there wouldn ’ t be so much stealing?
I ’ d be glad to make a deal with you.
Are you going to be home so I can come by and take a look at the problem?
OK. I wonder about the rate of interest of the account.
This is just my size. How much is the rent
OK, we'll come at half past eleven tomorrow.
I'm sorry. I can't. What does the note say.
Please just give me your name, and at 7
It was a foreign film called ' Gone with the wind '.
Yes. Please give me your ID card, a photo.
I ’ m sorry, sir, we don ’ t. But we do accept all major credit cards.
That's right. Seeing is believing.
I only wish it were this time yesterday.
Let's rock n ' roll.
The economy has been stagnant for a while now. We've been in a recessive state for several months already. What worries me the most is the trade deficit. I think the government should do more to encourage exports.
We could manage the plain rolls in six weeks. The prints might be put off to eight weeks.
Why don't you put it in your salad?
For what days, madam?
Well, now I know the bus that'll take us back.
Would you please tell me about your pay skill first?
Sure. You can review the lessons you have learned at school and learn something new there.
It's an Egyptian carpet. The student came to my office the other day and brought the carpet to show his gratitude. Seeing what gift was, I was really uncomfortable. I mean it's too expensive a gift for a student to give a professor. I don't think I've done anything to deserve that gift, so I refused it.
He is five years older than me, He got married last Sunday.My brother and my sister-in-law are the same age.
Then you must be off your head. He is a real bastard.
Not quite. I also like romance and comedy movies very much.
When will that be?
Oh, yes. My wife bought it for me yesterday. Hmm, you look nice in that yellow dress. Yellow suits you really well.
I need to purchase some business cards.
Would it be possible to transfer them to IBA Bank?
Yes, I went to the New Year ’ s Concert in 2010.
Do you like this place?
Bulldog 123 is just the street. You have to give me the city, state, and ZIP code.
Is the factory fully-automated?
No, I can't make it today.
Could you give me some brochures for that machine? And the price if possible.
Everyone in Taiwan knows it. Come on! Sing with us!
Well, Lili, we can visit different places in the state in our van. We are not going to take a plane or stay at a hotel this time. Trust me, it won ’ t cost much.
Yes, they do. But you can only access all the articles if you have a subscription.
Is it going to be perfect beach weather?
My wife's birthday is today. I need some flowers.
Yesterday morning was beautiful i thought the sunning was going to continue.
Now, does this come with a warranty?
Where should we meet?
Sure. They are my kids, Alex and Kathy Stern.
Is there any other place you would like me to go to for you?
Not just now, but if I do think of something later, I'll give you a ring.
Can you eat the seed?
What a pity! The party is very interesting.
That piece fits on to your ear. It hooks right on. And you just put the other one in your other ear.
No, I don ’ t. I go on a winter holiday instead. I go somewhere warm.
I'd like to very much.
You need to sign the back.
Is that right. Who ended up winning?
Yes, but we need some extra charge and some tip, too.
You have 16 balls on the table, 7 solid colored, 7 striped colored, a black 8 ball, and the white ball.
Welcome to the KFC Just-in-Time. Can I help you?
We really were lucky. We got the last available table for two---and we didn't even have a reservation! Did you see the long lines behind us?
Would you like to order anything else?
Thank you very much. I ’ Ve tried to keep it short and clear. If there ’ s any questions please feel free to ask me.
I would back him up to the hilt anyway.
Well.Don ' t worry about it, I will be happy to share the taxi with you.
I wonder if anyone can call the Ridleys about this. Do you know them well?
Well, what do you think of choosing a commission representative or agent abroad to promote your sales?
Well, if you can wait until tomorrow night, I'll go with you then.
Just as the saying goes, every potter praises his own pot. You should pay special attention to selling yourself properly in the interview.
I've worked here as a sales representative for about a year now.
What is the earliest one?
He's very handsome, I think.
Can you give me some idea of what you'd like?
I'm not sure if we've got any now. Books of that kind are on this shelf. Well, I'm afraid we've sold out.
But do you have any experience like that?
About two years now.
How much should I pay?
Yes, there is a 10 percent discount.
How much for the shirts?
The show starts at 7 and is over at around 10 o'clock p. m.
Don't sweat it. I know just the guy.
How can you get that done?
That's perfect. See you on Saturday.
This is our counter-offer.
I mean if you don ’ t sell your shares now, It’s quite likely that you ’ ll end up losing your shirt.
Are you going to vote this Tuesday?
Nurse, I am sure to die soon. They just don't tell me the truth, I know.
No, they are in a position of leadership and have more experience than normal account managers, but they do not directly supervise others. They are not members of the managerial staff and will not be included in our training.
There's quite a long list, actually! You can use if for business trip expenses, medical expenses, any internal payments.
I will mail it in a little early next time to avoid this problem.
What is your salary now?
Fine! Can you also iron and starch this shirt?
That works for me!
Oh, that's how you see it.
OK, may I have your key?
Well, if you can meet our deadline.
Yeah, that's why I'm here. My friends dragged me here, because they think I spend too much time studying.
Welcome to Flash Foot, sir. How can I help you?
No, that ’ s perfect. We can leave directly from here.
Yes, I want to be her boyfriend. Just like in the movie.
This channel has so many advertisements, and it doesn't have any good TV programs.
Hello, where can I buy an inexpensive cashmere sweater?
Maybe three times. As I said, I always forget it.
I agree. Maybe they can bring us some better food.
I have your catalog here. Do you want me to tell you the item numbers, or the names?
Really? That's great! Tell me.
I'm Amy. How do you do?
they're also one of the richest couples. They have so many money and they can buy almost anything they want.
What is he like?
I want to book a tour with adventure sports.
Soup and bread and salad bar! I'm telling you, these people know how to keep you coming back!
Well. I can't find my key now. I think I have lost it.
Let me help pay for gas.
Steven, I need badly your help.
No rush. You can give it back whenever you have it.
You certainly had a busy day.
Look, here're two coins named Kai Yuan Tong Bao — the sort of coin made in memory of the founding of a new dynasty. These two coins were made in different periods of the Tang Dynasty.
Does that mean I can't use it tonight?
I liked physics. It’s all math, really, arcs, curves, velocity, cool stuff.
Yes, I am. I really don't feel much like cooking, but the family must eat.
I mean it. You have really shown us that you are prepared to take on the adult world.
It seems you've got everything done. Now I can finally stop worrying about it and get back to work.
I don ’ t believe it.
Is it very far from here?
For the amount of work we do on the computer these days, the one we ’ re using is just too weak. We really need a higher model.
Do we need to show our ID cards when checking in.
That's not the same.Maybe you want to buy running-shoe-style shoes, but not real running shoes.
Are we covered by a good benefits plan?
Well. You know I hate walking, but I can ’ t wait to see your guys ’ video.
All right, let me get your meat for you.
It's Saturday.
No, I haven't got one. My employment petition hasn't been approved yet.
There, on the window.
So there isn't air in the glass boxes?
The MYOMA is very popular. There will be a lot of people.
how is your house hunting going?
How much will it be in Chinese currency?
Does all that come to 10,000 NT?
Oh, you have too wild of an imagination.
With the greatest pleasure.Where is the concert this evening?
You got it!
I could not relocate in the next year, but might be open to it in the future.
I play tennis there every week. Shall we have a game one day?
And when would you want us call you this time?
Oh, the rate goes down.
My birthday is coming up. We'll find out pretty soon.
Yeah! I am here with my friend and he thinks it may be the spark plug or the starter motor.
What other information does the form ask for?
That's good. Can you give me a reduction?
You can take a No. 12 bus here and then transfer to a No. 23 bus to get there.
That ’ s too bad. how long was the flight?
So you are leaving two weeks from now?
So how long have you known Mary?
Did you bring any fruits, vegetables, fresh meats or plants into this country?
Must we finish our task before the holiday?
I wouldn't be so sure... People want to wear what they feel most comfortable in.
Absolutely. I bought them from the King's estate myself! Tell you what-I'll let you have five for one hundred bucks.
Yes, it's the correct thing to do.
Can you tell me what's included in your warranty?
eBay also offers free insurance. You can get a refund of up to $ 200 if you're not satisfied with your purchase.
I think red would be nice.
More and more people easily get irritated while driving.
It's January.
Thank you again. I'll keep doing my best.
Only if you pay your fine.
Well, since you're a foreign student, it's hard.That ' s because it's actually illegal for you to work in America.
Shall we need at 1 fifteen this Thursday? We definitely need some new filing cabinets and at least one desk unit.
Yes, speaking. Anything I can do for you?
Well, thank you, Mr. Smith. But I was just doing my job.
You can't buy much more, Wei! You already have enough to fill two boxes to send back to Taiwan.
You bet. Now that you mentioned it, I think I'll call her now and see if she is available tonight.
Well, generally speaking, if you want to change someone ’ s mind or understand his position, you have to put yourself in his shoes. Understand his need and the cost for his need. And then you work together to find a solution.
There're traffic jam everywhere this hour of the day!
Why? What are they like?
I don't know. I'll have to ask my host mom.
Yeah. I didn't know what they're called in English.
You are right. Did you say 5:30? I'll make a note of it. Fine.
That's right, there's ' revocable ' and ' irrevocable '. We usually go for the irrevocable one, it's the most popular.
Can I get a quick reply from the sites?
Yes. But I'm not used to eating American-style breakfast.
I ’ m sorry, but that ’ s what our records show.
Let me give you your confirmation number. It's 7576385. I'll repeat that, 7576385. Thank you for choosing San Felice Hotel and have a nice day. Goodbye.
This is your first Christmas in the US. Here is the gift for you.
Thank you. Now I see that you are my true friend. Most of my so-called friends left me at the moment my company went bankrupt. You are the only one who has stood by me the whole time.
All right, madam. For which dates do you want to book the rooms?
How do I use this adhesive?
Oh well. I'll have to live with it. What else can I do?
It’s easy grandpa. Insert you card into the machine here. Then wait a moment. Ok. Now you enter your PIN. It should have four numbers.
My pleasure. ( It was my pleasure. )
and the bubble wrap?
I think that would be OK. Who will be driving it?
I'm afraid not. He is away for the rest of the day.
Well, I guess the employee would feel more embarrassed and probably angry. Anyway, it is not wise at all to give a harsh time to your employee in front of others, especially strangers.
The bartender just gave the last call. Let's order another round, okay?
Ok. Would you please sign your name on the back of the check?
You should also get a couple of guitar picks.
I know, that's my problem. What do you think I should do?
That's a good word to describe it.
Should I have brought anything with me?
Do you charge for checking it out?
I'm going to the hospital to see Susan Green.
Thank you for the information.
That ’ s definitely true. I ’ m going to have to give you a ticket. Please remember to drive more carefully next time.
Tom... you are her boss, you kown.Of course, she's helpful to you.
Thanks for the advice, Mr. Macmillan. I ’ ll keep it in mind. I had better head off though. I ’ m meeting my husband for dinner.
I'm totally vibing with this artists.
How was your morning jog?
Possibly. What's the actual price?
I think it's my ankle.
No, this will help answer your question. In American society boys and girls are raised together. They ’ re not segregated in their activities! Boys and girls go out together from an early age.
We're going to discuss how to market CB series soon. Does your project go well?
Yes, it's used, but she said it was in very good shape.It ' s a small foreign car.
My parents wanted me to stay in Beijing, but I decided to go back to England. I graduated from University of Newcastle upon Tyne with a degree in Cross Culture Communication.
Would you like to have some more beer?
Mm, yeah, that ’ ll be great. Tell him I ’ ll see him then.
Can you do that in the mornings, or would the afternoons be best?
Please have a seat. I know our employment officer has already given you the information about your employee contract, but I ’ d like to go over the main details again before signing the contract. First, you ’ ll be getting a monthly salary, with one month paid vacation after one year of service. No probation is involved.
I quarreled with my roommate last night. He is really stubborn.
If I had one, could I rent this apartment?
I ’ m glad you like them. Happy birthday!
Yes.The language is hard to learn, but it's interesting.
This man is your fiance, Dolly?
I agree with your proposal.
Oh, I'm eager to have a try.
If I put you in at a later spot, would that work out?
If you had a box made in the ' 20s, that would be nice.
and no hijackers.
I had no idea there were a set of instructions. I thought everyone who could solve it were all geniuses!
I found some fairly major problems. A major support beam in the roof is broken, and the shower floor leaked and rotted out the second-floor joist.
Yes, sir. What time would you like, sir?
Yeah, I like it a lot. It's very pretty. Where did you buy it?
Yeah, I accidentally dropped my phone in the toilet.
Sure. Come to look at these styles. They sell very well.
That will be on the second of December. Be there half an hour early to get your bags on the bus. Do you understand?
I think I'll have a beer.
Thanks for reminding me. It always slips my mind.
You don't like the performance, do you?
And you think I fit the qualifications?
Another is about electronic commerce, and its products are mainly large machinery equipments.
What a relief! I was beginning to think it was no way to get my business rolling again.
What do you base our grades on?
if you gave him another 30 days, do you think he could figure it out by then?
Really? It sounds interesting.
You know, I like traveling. I made good use of this long vacation and enjoyed myself.
I will. See you later.
You could place your job hunting information on the Job Wanted channel on a recruitment website.
Hmm. I hope not.
Are you aware of all the controls in the car?
Thanks. I appreciate the hand. I ’ d have to make two or three trips on my own.
Yeah... we set up tables with food, fruit and drinks and offer that to the hungry ghosts.
Take it easy, all sufferings have their reward.
Oh, it's such a pain. We'd better go to a store later.
Yes, I'd like to see the receipt. Oh! I see you bough the watch last week.
About half an hour ago I fell on the ground and hurt my leg. It bled a lot.
Can my friend, Tom Mitchum, come home with me for lunch tomorrow?
Nothing. The people at the bottom give their money to the people above them, and they get nothing. They end up losing. That's why it's a scam.
You mentioned you have a dog, most pet owners sign up for this weekly newsletter that has information on dog care, pet shops and even pet sitters!
No way. Look. That's what the meter says.
Is there a package with basic and movie channels?
That's great! We made 20 minutes earlier.
Did you go to Berlin?
yes, we can look at the computer and computer menu at the same time.And this will help us understand both better.
Excuse me. Is anyone sitting here?
Do you know about our school?
Is that shrimp in the soup?
Could you point me in that direction?
No, you do not have to. The handbag can be taken with you. There is the cart at the entrance.
Did you see that? He traveled and the ref didn ’ t call it!
I'm not busy tomorrow. Call me then.
It's gone completely.
I'll be back as soon as possible. Oh, I almost forgot I'd better hold on to my ticket stop in case of they let me in.
It's August the thirteenth.
You ’ Ve been using it for two weeks without paying.
Hotel front desk.
I doubt if I can pass it.
At 9:36. And the 9:18 gets to London at 9:55, the 10:32 at 11:09.
Do what you have to do! One other thing, don ’ t tell the rest of the stockholders about this. If they find out, It’s the end of this company!
Does the Chinese department here teach regular characters or simplified characters?
Yes, I suppose we must. I have enjoyed all these days that you have spent with me, and I'll always remember them. I've learned a lot from you. Thank you for all your kindness.
The Russian team needs to tie the Ukraine to get the pass for the final.
Steve, I was born ready! I ’ m going to blow you guys off the treadmill today.
Now it's my son's turn to wait.
I agree with you there, but you price is unreasonable.
We have thought of you very carefully, but the other candidate has more experience.
Oh, this is over my head. It’s too professional.
No, I think I'm going to go to the movies.
We'll start you off with a base salary of $ 20,000 a year, with bonuses that can add up to $ 40,000. A company car, and a company pension scheme. Is that acceptable to you?
You work upstair, right? I think I have seen you before. I'm Karren, Karren Brown.
No. In fact, prior to their boarding the bus and their getting off the bus, I will make an announcement to remind them that they should check their belongings.
Three twenty-five cent stamps, please.
Why does he have such a privilege?
that ’ s the funny thing. I don ’ t what ’ s wrong with me. I just feel exhausted.
My name is Dunlin and I live in Beijing. I was born in 1980. I will graduate from Peking University this July. I have majored in accounting.
All right. Thanks a lot.
Yes. Here is my passport.
I can ’ t bear being near cats. They don ’ t seem to like me either.
Can I get you something, coffee, tea?
I saw your ad in The New York Times. I am seriously considering one of the apartments listed in it.
This is the best dinner I've ever had.
By the way, I heard Kitty's just got in a shipment of Jamaican Blue Mountain.
I like traveling for pleasure to get places for vacation for instance. But I don ’ t like traveling to work, waiting for buses, or...
Yes. When you have decided exactly what you want and have a purchase price we can begin to process the loan. As long as you provide the proper documentation, of course.
Right. Then you may think that I am not fit for this job according to my educational background.
But we should get you some shirts while we're here. You need summer shirts.
For us, karaoke is becoming a popular entertainment.
This is the Bell Captain's Desk. May I help you?
No, I didn't know I could do that.
Then would you please make your prices CIF including five percent?
Since it is, I need a haircut with shampoo.
Are you in a hurry?
No, not really. When I left Vietnam, I came to America and I lived with a cousin in Dallas for two years. Where do you work, Alice?
Yes, we are a foreign-invested company.
Oh, you wrote them all by yourself. That's amazing! Are you a regular singer here?
You'd better be early in case that you may be late because of traffic jam. That will put you in a insurmountable place.
You can always look an extension up on the company website.
I don ’ t have access to a computer.
Sure. I will.
How do you sleep?
What is your long-range objective?
it might not be possible to fix the problems that we've created for ourselves, but there are lots of things we can do to prevent more damages from happening.
Yes, I did. But when I got home, my son put it on and we found the hole.
Are we going all out or just starting with a mini family vacation?
Hello, Mike, long time no see. How's everything going?
Yes, just tinned meat.
Hmm. as I mentioned, I can work well under pressure and I enjoy work that challenges me. I think that my English ability is also a strong point.
Well, that's not for me.
Yes, it's true I don't.
Yeah, I can ’ t cook anything until tomorrow, anyway.
What time does the next train leave?
Yeah, we did miss it.
We've never sold this much before, our growth this year has been phenomenal. We have captured 8 % of the market, up from last year by 120 %. Our strategy is working!
It's easy to get loose bowels in summer.
It can cost as little as five hundred dollars and as much as one thousand dollars.
This one, of course. Your company is my first choice. I want to work for you.
Studying English wouldn't give me any satisfaction.It ' s hard work.
Thanks a lot. Sorry to trouble you.
Why not? I downloaded a beautiful song the other day. We can learn it together now.
I would love to see it.
Then we will arrange a morning call at 7:30. Will that be fine?
Yeah, I've been working so much overtime lately.
Sure thing. I've got time.
Did you go shopping?
Fine. Actually I am a little tired too. Want some water?
Certainly. When for, madam?
Last night he told the children acliff-hangerstory and both of them were scared out of sleep.
These are all my personal documents about my education and working experience you asked for. And I have to be off for an important meeting now. If you think I am right for the job, please keep me informed.
No, not that long. Two more stops, and you'll get off, sir.
It's a secret.
My brother joined the army last year.
No problem, call me when you're ready to place the rest of your order.
What are you hiding behind your back? Let me see.
I said that you are supposed to have an interview.
Just give me $ 55.
So complicated! Ok, what about this red wine stain? How do I get it out?
Yes, it includes English breakfast. For the phone, I am afraid you can not.
Yes, quite often.
That ’ s our latest development. A product with high performance. We put it on the market just two months ago.
I don't know. Maybe next week. We haven't been to the Great Wall yet.
I know. What time do they go?
Go straight up Zhongshan Road and you will see our sign on your right, after you pass the museum.
No wonder you are named shopaholic.
Let me check - - oh, here it is. It just arrived a few minutes ago.
Helen gets on very well with her neighbours. I wouldn ’ t be surprised if they went to the party too.
I can get more promotion in your company.
Very good. I ’ ll take it.
When viewing the Earth from space, do you feel detached from humanity or more a part of the totality of humankind?
Here ’ s the master bedroom.
Sure. Bring enough films, please.
Jack and Mary broke up.
Well, I don't really know, but I heard that they are having a separation for 2 months, and filed for divorce.
Enough! I can't wait anymore.
I don't see any mistakes.
I don't understand why some parents keep beefing and complaining about their daughters not being able to follow suit.
This is Mr.Gao. How are you?
Excuse me, is this the Auto Consumer Loan Center?
A friend of mine has been taking an online career planning course these days. He told me the other day he has learned a lot from it. He recommended me to subscribe to it. What do you say?
thank you. I'll be sure to take a look.
We always try to serve our guests in the most agreeable way possible.
Hey, I know what that's like. I bought a BMW on my Visa card. Now the payments really hurt.
Yes, thank you. That would be great.
Is there any furniture in it?
Love me, love my dog. He ’ s a sensible kind man.
I love this wine! It goes very well with the chicken.
I'm sorry. All the appointments are filled.
In hospitals or on planes, handsets will interfere with some equip-ment, so we must close our handsets. If you set call transfer, the problem will be solved.
Could I list my interests and special skills next?
Okay.Hey, is that a dark cloud over there? Do you think it will rain after all?
I see. I'd better never try.
Martha gets jealous easily and it took a while to convince her that Sara was just a friend. Now, I have to explain to Sara that I can't hang around her because of you.
Our products are of good quality.Since the prices of textiles have gone up in the world market we've had to increase them on some items by about ten percent.If you place a large order it is possible for us to cut down the prices by five percent
My computer shows that you have a bench warrant.
So, do you think workers should be paid as little as possible?
Well, if you have no further questions, then we have done.
That would really help me, Sue. I appreciate it. All this makes me feel like an idiot.
I need to look for a new bedroom set.
It'll be the year 2000! The flight attendants are coming over here. They're carrying bottles of champagne!
I'm watching you.
And here's her signature!
OK. If any of the articles was damaged during moving, you may make a claim for compensation with our department.
Not until the 31st. So can you change the church reservations?
Wait and see. I want to try horseback riding after fishing. It looks very exciting and fun.
OK... and what about the buffet and the cake? Did your mom call the caterer?
Obviously I look for improvement as we go along, but I would like you to do your best from the beginning.
Pleased to see you, too, Mr. Brown.
I am afraid no. It is not covered by this insurance.
I usee I would say that would be moving out of my parents ’ house for the first time.
Oh, Hi Tom, how have you been?
Until we meet again.
Wonderful. I'm eager to take a sauna as soon as possible.
No problem, we have a short form right here ; just hand it to me when you are done.
Does it bite or scratch?
Well, that ’ s life, isn ’ t it?
I'm doing it for fun and fitness.
I hear that there is a festival called Duanwu in China.
Yes, we have some in blue, green, black and brown.
I'm sorry, Sir. She's currently away at our sub-branch. Is there anything I can help you with?
You need to get off on the corner of Del Mar and Hill.
What about tomorrow morning at 9? I'll come over to your hotel.
Looks like you ’ re going to lose out on this game then.
Look at this mountain bike. It is only £ 330. Do you like it?
Your order will be ready soon, thank you for calling.
Then you need to register as a new patient. Can I have a look at you ID card? I need your name, age, occupation, address and contacting number.
Yes, membership fees vary depending on the club but usually they run into tens of thousands of dollars.
sure, what's on?
Okay, you should take 1 capsule 3 times a day.Be sure not to take it on an empty stomach, and also, don ’ t ever mix it with alcohol!
That is a very quick meal to make.
I think French will be fine.
I came to this lab to have my blood drawn.
Not for the others, but for me. I was in the library going over my lessons when suddenly one of my roommates came in. He told me that I was wanted on the phone in my dormitory, and that person would call me again several minutes later.
Well, French was my best subject at school. I can read and write it pretty well.
Can you also show me this one?
and he is English! He makes a model gentleman when he puts on a black suit and speaks with a typical British accent.
That ’ s for sure. During the back court, we should change the position we played.
Johnny, you did badly on the test. I think you haven't been studying enough. Am I right?
It takes only ten minutes.
That's exciting, man.
I still have 5 days to practise. It's in the bag!
Excuse me, but could I use your bathroom?
Don't panic! We'll help you get out of the building safely.
Excuse me.Have you got any books on genetic engineering? I've looked for them everywhere, but I can't find any.
Great! It’s a deal! Thank you, sir!
The dog ’ s in the garden, too. It’s running across the grass. It’s running after a cat.
Um, very nice. It's warm in spring and cool in autumn.
I ’ m not sure, but I will arrange for you and inform you as well.
We'll visit the generally well-known spots.
What have you been doing?
Where do you want to be in 5 years?
Well now that I know what kind of movies you like, tell me, what's your least favorite kind of movie?
I'm sorry, sir. Just hold the line, please. Now the line is connected. Go ahead please.
That sounds pretty good to me, but I am not sure what to do.
That's pretty tough!
You mean the kind of stuff like Nirvana?
Not a problem, Sir. Please fill in this exchange form and show me your passport.
Of course, we can.
What do you think of this one? It's a 16 ” pan.
What do you mean--a membership card? I already have one.
Sir, the restaurant you seek is right here. This hotel has a three-star restaurant.
I ’ m trying to put the vase on the shelf.
Yes, it is. It’s also very different from the British education system.
They are beautiful, but I can't understand the connotation in them. Let me see the handkerchiefs.
Excuse me, sir. My baggage is badly damaged.
I believe persistence and perseverance are key attributes.
I ’ m fond of snakes. I think they ’ re great. I agree with you about spiders though. I think spiders are horrible. I think It’s because they have so many legs.
Acupuncture may cause just a little pain, but it also causes a certain feeling of numbness and distension. We'll try it every day for seven days. Will that be all right?
Good gracious! Are you sure?
I'll be there. You're still a fabulous cook, aren't you?
So you guys should be always busy.
I like your sweater. It suits you very well.
I got major FOMO from missing that athletes.
We're very sorry for the delay. I'll check immediately and call you back.
Management isn't looking on the labor unions too favorably, I'd guess. I don't blame them... labor unions can really put the squeeze on the executives.
personally, I think it ’ d be better to go when you have more time. A few days isn ’ t really enough to get acclimatize yourself and to go on a few excursions outside of the capital.
He's a year older than Keith, but he looks younger.
The idea is that the people and dates change, but the reason why things happen stay the same.
They have made it. Will our love last 50 years?
We have information available about the job market as well as workshops.
I don't think the green one fits her complexion. Do you have any skirts in light color or tan?
Yes, now what do I do?
I have learned some skills about how to deal with clients and how to behave myself as a personnel manager.
Just one moment. I'll check with the cancer ward desk.
Sure, thank you.
Don't worry. Bye.
I ’ m sorry. I think you are calling the wrong person. My name is not Mr. Bernie.
So, which form of transport do you prefer to use?
Un.. Those are 25 dollars each.
Mom, please. Can I have a pet dog like Andy's?
sure. Would it be alright if I brought a few friends?
Do you want to visit any tourist spots in the city?
do you have any plans for tomorrow?
Oh, sorry. I didn ’ t notice it. Sorry.
No, not at all. His examples are really interesting.
Yes, sir. Shall I explain the details of the plan now?
Do you think people still have faith in the government?
I'm be right behind ya!
I am good at sprint and table tennis.
Is that the place that serves such large portions of meat?
I don't see why we can't work on opening new markets and developing the markets we've already penetrated at the same time... Both aspects of developing our customer base and developing our brand are important.
I don't know, I can't stand my job these days.
Yes, but ever since I bought it, it gains about five minutes a day, so I ' Ve got to have it repaired.
How much does this cost?
Yes. I am ready.
How much do you want to draw?
If I'm in the service center. I'll listen to the client patiently, and accept the criticism objectively. Then I will have the claim reasonably settled.
Hey, chill out, I'm just trying to help.
Good afternoon, sir. Welcome to our hotel.What kind of room would you like, sir?
Do you think you could finish it in three days?
that ’ s a good idea. You ’ re very decisive, I ’ Ve noticed. So, which bar are we going to this evening?
That's right
Hello, Mary. Why are you standing here in the cold wind?
no, we don ’ t. we wish we had one. That ’ s the only thing we wanted, but don ’ t have. The area is very nice and the neighbours seem friendly.
Yeah. I think my mom is the most worried. I'm basically worried about how she is doing.
You are welcome. See you next time.
Sporting goods? Is that bike Tim wanted on sale?
That's exactly the way I feel.
How often are stockholders meetings held?
No doubt about it. Shopping online will get more and more popular. It's a real revolution about people's consuming habits.
What about going to a movie?
Unless It’s marked differently, It’s their home numbers.
It’s Asian fusion. I heard It’s delicious.
Because this is a public place, and I want to spend my time here without having to look at your garbage.
I can't believe this for it's been 20 years since we got married.
What happened to my cup?
Yes, Mr. Du, when were you born?
In order to graduate, every student must take a certain amount of classes in history, math, English, philosophy, science and art.
We send our kids to private school, but that ’ s good to know too.
Well, here there are many different clubs you can get into, for free, you don't have to pay, some of them. In London it's really expensive for drinks and an entry fee.
I'll explain later, let's go.
Do you know who ’ s just got married? Old McDonald.
Good evening, madam. Can I help you?
Is this the sign? What does it says?
Here it is. and thank you very much.
Great! That's settled then.
I am afraid there isn ’ t.
You seem to have a large gullibility line. You believe everything that you're told.
OK. Is it convenient for us to come now?
Honey, I am sorry I have no time.
Do I have a choice? Uh. That's a no. What can I do?
I can understand why you didn't stop for it.
I see. Ok, then where do you think we will have the meeting?
What services come with that?
Is this your country of birth or residence.
but i can see you dance wonderfully well.
I can't because I already promised my roommate that I would go shopping with her.
Very much.New York is such a nice place.Shall I show you some photographs?
to be honest, in order for the earth to continue to be a habitable place, we're all going to have to become more interested in the environment.
It’s a story about a policemen who is investigating a series of strange murders. I play the part of the detective. He has to catch the killer, but there ’ s very little evidence. It’s a psychological th
OK, I'll begin the opening procedure now and we'll let you know when everything is sorted.
I like spring best. It is neither too cold nor too hot. Freezing days make me lazy and stuffy days make me lazier. How about you?
Your bumper looks exactly the same.
what do you think will happen to him?
Show me some classic high heels, please.
Please make sure to fasten your seat belt. We are to take off.
Well, I must apologize, madam. We have new computers here, you know.
Let me see.It ' s 57 dollars, 20 cents, including tax.
Does your current employer know you are looking for another job?
I know of a restaurant. I'm sure you'll like it.
I'm going to have a glass of beer. How about you?
I would like to have some tea as well.
It's a great feeling.
Very good. Could I serve you anything else?
Well, I'm glad to hear that. Please give my regards to him.
You ’ re welcome. Why don ’ t you ask the conductor when he comes by?
Yeah, I think so. I think the hotel is right across the street from a post office. It is as plain as the hump on a camel. You can't miss it.
Could you introduce your biggest accomplishments in your last job?
Mrs.Davinson. Mary Davison. M-A-R-Y, mary. D-A-V-I-N-S-O-N. Davison.
Can you introduce him to me?
Do you have a swimming pool in this hotel?
I'd like to have these shirts washed and ironed.
Yes, I did. Don't worry.
Haven't the Olympics been stopped for a long time?
No problem. Say ' cheese '. That's good. Please wait a moment.
now we get along very well. It makes me feel that I'm someone special.
Well... I'm going away on Sunday morning. Very early. Will the party go Convery late?
Well, I'm not so sure. Most of my make-up is brown.
Well, you can call it in later. You can phone us.
Why did you stay an extra night in Boston? What happened?
Good afternoon, San Felice Hotel. May I help you?
Can I bring you some dessert?
Yeah, I saw someone walking like you, but I wasn ’ t sure. We haven ’ t seen each other for how long? Almost three months? But you look quite different now.
I can speak the language better than read and write.
Of course. This product moisturizes at the same time.
Yes, that's the right size, but it's so heavy.
No problem. Wait a moment.
How do you like you trip?
Let me see. You could exercise more to keep fit.
The new year is coming. Is the final examination approaching.
Flexibility would certainly rank high in this type of job. In my last position, I supported four lawyers, and it was not unusual for them all to give me high-priority items to do in the same day or week. There were days when I had to stop and prioritize my work just to get a handle on everything. I would discuss the urgency of their work with each of them so I didn't drop the ball. At the same time, I made sure each of them felt like his or her project was important on my agenda. I think communication is probably the next key quality. It really worked well when I talked with each of them, explained my situation, and got their input.
Not too well. He had to have four teeth pulled last week.
Just two days ago it was 35. How can it be 60?
And is she helping him?
Shall I get you some water?
Thank you so much. I'll find the nearest branch and come in tomorrow. Thanks again for all of your help.
No problem, girl friend. I'll see you next time.
Nice to see you, too.
OK. I understand.
My first name is J-U-D-Y, and my last name is W-A-N-G.
I forgot about that section.
just a little. Has your toothache gone now?
I got a ninety-five on my test.
Yes, he did the same to me.
So you may like inventive jobs.
To the traffic lights?
Shall we have some soup first?
I wish I could, but I ’ Ve got to go now. I have an appointment in 20 minutes.
Thank you again!
I have tickets to The Phantom of the Opera on Friday night. Would you like to go?
I would be happy to answer any questions you might have.
Okay, so on Friday, you can buy yourself something to eat.
Your company's products are mostly marketed in Canada and the United States, but particularly have sold very well here in China. So I think in the future you'll find China to be a profitable market as well.
Do I owe you for the sauce, pepper and napkins?
One last thing. Is it waterproof?
If you want my advice, you won ’ t invite yourself any risk.
What kind of room?
Is this the first time you ’ Ve voted?
Sorry, I'm afraid that I've got plans tonight.
I just started working here.
I would like to rent a car with a good stereo.
That's great. We can go to the bank together.
The car isn't running smoothly. I'd like to have a look at it.
Last trip was very terrible. I hope everything will be fine this time. Don ’ t blow it.
I loved it. I'll take it.
Sure. Since we work together in teams, we have to get along with each other.
Then why didn't you talk to me?
But it is too loose.Do you have the smaller size?
How long will you be staying in the UK?
When you flip the tie up, he's right side up. Brilliant.
camping for an evening is ok, but I couldn't do it for much longer than one night!
They have a good variety of vegetable-based dishes like talak panter, vegetable samosas or daal.
You ought to complain.These machine are always out of order.
What can I do for you, madam?
Thank you, Mr. White. I really appreciate your assistance.
Oh, thank you. What is the occasion?
Jim was late again.
Good evening. I'll have a Scotch.
Have you had anything to eat lately?
You will need to pay late fees on these books.
Oh, well. So you get the bottom bunk. What about our stereos? It looks like we both brought our stereos. Probably we only have room for one.
How many of you?
artists are truly remarkable.
Ah, yes. I remember now.Were you Mr. John ’ s dinner partner last month?
Exactly what do you mean by bad?
Well it can be but Shanghai is much warmer than London.
Not bad. Thank you for your help. I am always busy with this job, I feel a bit tired.
We are going to Jingshan Park. Originally it was an imperial garden while it is now a public park.
Morgan, can I ask you a question?
I got it on sale down at the department store.
We would like to book a table for 6 at 7:00 in the evening.
you're right. She would never talk about me behind my back or hold a grudge. But she just doesn't seem very interested in our friendship anymore.
Go to gate 18. The plane is now boarding. You must hurry.
You are a thief?
It was a round day for me. My family attend the graduation ceremony. I was so nervous. I couldn't find my cap and gown, but all worked out in the end.
Well, that was fun. Let's do it again soon.
Well, I guess you don't want this note, then.
Happy Birthday, Mary!
This is my house.Let me show you around it.
40 miles per hour.
Which credit card was the bill for?
Never mind that, I'll take care of it. Are you available next week?
Will you go with me, too?
What ’ s up?
The last four charges.
I am not impressed by the interior of this house.
I think you have a point.
Sure. The main courses I took included commercial accounting, cost accounting, industrial accounting, electronic accounting, and so on.
I'll just go and check for you.
OK. It's delightful to have a walk in the park with the air so fresh.
I ’ d like to. But Bob, are you sure it will be all right? I would hate you to make your boss angry or even lose your job.
Is that your wedding ring?
that's a good idea.
Where can I enjoy the best local food?
Yeah? You finally decided to wipe the slate clean?
Do you want to mail it by air or by sea?
There is a square in front of us. We can park the car there.
That's good to hear. You've had an ideal recovery from your operation. We're going to send you home tomorrow.
Good morning! Do you have any rooms available at the moment?
Sure. What's your date of delivery?
Thank you. Please call me at any time if you have any questions.
Why not go to see the doctor?
Yes, I'm not really scared. Maybe only a little.
We haven't decided yet, we will let you know if we do.
Is that right? Which university, if you don't mind my asking?
Most of the things were household appliance. You know, everything from an iron through a vacuum cleaner to a cooker. I think It’s an excellent way for everyone who knows the couple to help them set up home.
that might be true, but I think men should have some kind of say in the matter.
Yes, What can I do for you, sir?
Yes, and if I stay with you, we will have to walk back home to New York.Because we will lose all our money and our plane tickets too!
We should really hang out again.
All that's left is a leg. I gave the head to Tim!
Yes. I can feel the difference in material. There ’ s not much difference in price. Ok, I ’ ll take the more expensive one.
The rent is $ 600 a month?
Do you still remember we already have a New Year celebration on January 1st?
I said, 11:30 AM.
This is my first time here.
Let's just park here.
Ok. I hope you can have these goods delivered before the end of September. We'd like them to be ready in time for our Christmas sales.
I may have left my ID in my car.
Yes, but the results are not so satisfying.
It's the 17th week now, isn't it?
Lucy is known as a social butterfly. She has taken many rich men for a ride, you know.
How do you use a public phone?
Yeah. I remember it very clearly. The pain makes it easy to remember. I know you're really hurting right now, but you know many people experience break ups.
That ’ s a good idea. I ’ ll look into finding something like that.
How did I do?
Of course, yes. They look nice. And they're not expensive.
I need to cancel a check.
Lady, let me check. Do you want the morning or the afternoon flight?
Houston restaurant. Is there anything I can do for you?
Do you have any special request?
Think it over. We hope to keep a good business relationship with you.
It’s a sad thing. I ’ m ever so sorry...
I've heard that you are going to call for a tender. What kind of goods would you like to buy?
Yes, if we're busy. I'm paid double-time if I work at weekends.
Sorry. The car breaks down and it needs to be repaired.
why? It’s unfair. You can learn a lot from it.
I'm sorry, but I think you should give me no less than 65 yuan.
John is a peacemaker. He simply doesn ’ t bother. He says he should give him a free hand.
Mr. Smith, did you have a good journey?
I think we'll need more time than the schedule gives us.
In my opinion, there are several places you mustn't miss, like Washington D. C, Las Vegas, New York and Los Angeles.
That sounds like a good idea. It looks very big though.
Then have you received any award at your present company?
What do you know about our company?
Oh, I see. What other languages can you speak?
We're going to have to compromise.
Not really, I usually drive.
Not a bit of it, don't blame yourself.
That's a big mistake, you should always have a good breakfast. You will not run your car without fuel, and as well you won't expect your body to work without food.
I will take a rain check.
You will be fine in the couple of month, just be patient. I've got to woke now, I'll be late.
Of course, I'm sure you will like it.
Just one pair.
Of course. You can get it at the entrance.
It'll be dusty, too, I guess.
Oh, these are great. I think I'll take this one.
No, Even a dollar is all right.Here ' s your passbook, sir ; just sign your name on it.
I wasn't all that impressed by the food.
Let's see. Yes, here are your passports back. Did you pack your luggage yourselves?
Yes, but did you remember? You need good notes to help you remember.
Sorry, nope. But the Alpha Phi Alpha's are throwing a party tonight.
Sorry, Tom, can you say that last bit again please? We didn ’ t get that.
Oriental China Airlines. Good morning, may I help you?
What is your least favorite ice cream?
OK, sir. We will arrange one for you.
Ok then, head on over to the other room and pick out some frames while I fill out your prescription.
Well, that's OK.
Um... Uh... I'm just looking, thanks.
Ok, go ahead.
578 yuan a night, plus VAT, including air-conditioner and TV.
Well, thanks for asking for my permission... Now hand it over and let me record!
Thanks and you too.
I was in Tokyo in August, and it was really hot and humid. I went to Kyoto in October.It was hot and sunny, but there was no humidity.
Then, there's a 9:30 show.
The summers are hotter. The last three summers have been the hottest for the past 200 years. There have also been stronger winds.
I realize that I ’ m not in a position to offer you the kind of promotion you deserve I'll gladly do what I can to help.
Well, it seems that you have all the practical experience to handle these cases. I am very glad to welcome you into our company.
I wish our family took outrageous summer vacations like yours.
That's right. I know it must sound crazy to you, but we believe there will be fewer absences this way.
You know how hard I've tried to give up drinking? I ’ d be lost without you. I won ’ t let you go anyway.
Wow! It's hot today! Do you want to get an ice cream cone?
Let's have a look at the menu. Oh, there isn't a menu. Do you think you could ask the people at the next table if we could look at their menu?
Yes. I ’ d like to obtain a master ’ s degree in international relations.
She lives in San Francisco.
You said it.
Here is the ticket.
And why not?
I'll just have water.
Yes, I have. I went out with them last weekend.
How many seats are there in the stand?
Twenty dollars per dozen.
Not really, but I liked the design, so I got it.
Not me. I like to throw back what I catch.
Can I ask for a leave?
Yes, I do. I also use an anti-spyware program and a firewall. There are so many nasties on the internet and so many people who are trying to use the internet to hurt other users. You have to be very c
What are you doing tonight?
Oh, dear. It’s too expensive. Can you give me a better price?
But why? Since you like it so much.
Come on, just a bite. It doesn't really hurt to have just a bite.
Hello? This is John Smith.Can I speak to Mr.White, please?
It’s quiet and clean. I love the color scheme.
I think so. I feel very hot.
I see. Should I have it bound?
This is our rock-bottom price and we can't make any further reduction.
I ’ m very nervous.
Look out! Your tea water is running over.
Great! We are going to be working in teams of three. Are you OK working with others?
I hope you voted for him.
No, you needn ’ t do that. You ’ d better get a part-time job somewhere and go to evening classes.
Sure it is. This is a changing world. Does the training course cover the new law and regulation issued last month? They are very useful for us.
Hi, how is it going?
Jason Emory speaking.
Great! Phew! That was a close one! You had me going there for a minute I thought I was gonna have to slap some sense into you.
Yes, it is. But you have to be careful.
No problem. Here are your headphones. Do you want something to drink?
How much do are you looking to spend?
If I have high blood pressure, it is news to me.
So the total is $ 36.00 for our dinner.
What happened, Peter? Did you have a fight?
Ok. When is your train supposed to leave?
It's only one flight down, sir. Just take the elevator or the stairs.
Can you tell me how long it will take them to get back to me?
New York Airport.May I help you?
Salary is, admittedly, important, but I will care more about what I can learn from the job.
That would work too.
I understand you don't have a history of shipping overseas, but I am willing to pay extra for shipping.
Yeah, and I need to start improving my health.
Fine, then you can say, “ So there you are! I ' Ve been looking all over for YOU, the woman of my dreams! ”
Would you please show me that mural?
Please fill in this form.
Do you have cash, perhaps?
Yes, I can. Thank you so much.
Yeah. I have got much pressure in the company. I have to be wrapped up in my work.
Pretty good, I'd say.
How do you put this seat back? I know there is a lever somewhere.
I am, as a matter of fact. Do you have any special requests?
I had an interview with your company two weeks ago. I am calling to ask about the interview result. I hope you can give me a positive reply.
It's pretty cold and it often snows.
I think you ’ re right, but it does seem that there are always a few coworkers that are harder to work with than others.
What did the boss say?
Go do what you have to do, but make sure it doesn't happen again.
That's right. But the most dangerous thing is that their legs may spasm out of control when swimming.
Here's your ticket and change.
That does sound interesting. How can I get this service?
Of course! I really love watching football games on TV.
Yes, there's central air conditioning and heating. The thermostat is in the living room 。
It's one of the top papers in America.
It said that people with a positive attitude tend to live longer and happier.
You are welcome, doctor.
of course.it is really fantastic too, and it makes me eager to dance.
As a graduate, it may be more important to develop myself effectively in my future work. And whatever job I may take, I will make the best efforts.
Hmm. Let's see... there was Good Morning, Vietnam, Dead Poet's Society, The Fisher King... Three, right?
Well, I would prefer you to call me up tomorrow at 6:30
I was hoping you would write a letter of recommendation. I want to enter a Master ’ s program in marketing. It’s all on weekends and evenings.
musicians have never disappointed me.
It takes a long time to learn Chinese writing.
unfortunately not. If I can't find anything in the field, then I could also work in the tourism field.
Will you be checking any bags today.
Yes, we will have to dispose of them.
Your upstairs neighbors live in Canada and rarely come back to Taiwan. When they do, they're never home.
I had fried shrimp and clams for lunch.
He was too desperate to find some other way.
That'd be fantastic! Which beach are you going to?
Hello Gina! We've spoken so many times on the phone but's it's so good to finally meet you in person!
I beg you pardon? Miss who?
But the semester just started? Why the rush?
I mailed in an absentee ballot.
Why do you look unhappy?
How often is the bonus?
Please wrap it.
Ok, Ok. Toast and egg.
Don ’ t you worry, I ’ ll take care of everything! Oh my god! I just love your curly hair! It’s so fluffy and cute! You should totally let it grow out. An afro would look great on you!
It is about the staff meetings.You know how we have a staff meeting every Tuesday.
Anything you need to have in the place?
I didn ’ t think much of it. Are you?
Do you mind if I go with you?
Yes. I hope so.
Doctors aren't sure yet.But the real problem is Suzy. She has a bad cold, and we don't want to take her with us. But we don't know who can stay with her.
Two years ago. At that time I had no problems.Now I can ’ t even make out something ten meters away.
Couldn't he wait until we're finished eating?
Is a white blouse okay?
Yes, actually It’s my second visit. I was there last October.
I think I ‘ d say norway. It has many picturesque fjords, waterfalls, and mountains.
So, the quicker I pay it back, the more I can save in interest? That's excellent. Thanks so much for your information. I'll come in shortly to take the relevant steps for the loan.
Yes, yes. It seems that everything is settled.
isn't there anything else?
Did you get caught in the bad storm?
What if an employee was injured due to work-related job?
She was right to do that. I heard the Neil and Tina getting married soon.
Because she's not responsible enough.
while I think it's great that they're trying to get people to quit smoking, but I don't really care for the advertisement.
Sorry, I don ’ t know the rule about punching.
OK. Here you are.
I knew, but I couldn't control myself.
I think women excel in every sport except the ones that are taboo for us to join in, like football.
really? Who do you chat with?
All right. I know a great restaurant near here.But, it's a little expensive and I don't have much money with me.
That sounds great. What time should I come over?
On the contrary, Mr. London, we value your friendship more than anything else. We both understand our slippers are very popular in your market on account of their superior quality and compete - time price. And with the sole agency in your hand, there will be no competition and you can easily control the market, which would naturally result in bigger sales. I'm sure you can fulfill the agreement without much difficulty.
Gunpowder, compass, the paper making, and the printing.
When will school start?
They are keep the documents in chronological order, remove all the chips and pins, punch the documents evenly and place them in the folder.
Thanks for saying.Do you have any ideas which necklace I should wear?
Yes, someone is picking me up.
That was the last game before the playoffs.
My pleasure, Mr. Green. I look forward to an excellent relationship with your company.
Yes, that ’ s true. Your son is doing well at school, isn ’ t he?
Not bad. Everything goes well.
Okay, you call them.
I'm afraid we don't. But I'm sure you'll enjoy our lunch special.
Hmm. It's very cold today.But I brought my jacket. Maybe it will be alright to wait.
Yeah, clearly blue sky.But it is a bit too hot for me. I don't like heat and humidity.
Could you help me with these books?
Alright, the puck is back in play now. Pavel Bure is on a breakaway! He is flying down the ice! The defenders can ’ t keep up! Slap shot! He scores.
How about this one then?
OK. I'll blow.
Is there a receipt?
Uh-oh, here we go...
If you fail to do your work well, what are you going to do?
I am afraid the label is not quite suitable for this locality. Could you quote us for the order with neutral cases?
Then we'd better not go.
I ’ m be right behind ya!
Do you like watching TV?
All right, David. Is this for a checkup or a cleaning?
My wife didn't like to go to amusement parks, so we compromised and finally went to the seaside. I think vacation in summer is not good.
Let's ask the salesmen for a demonstration.
No problem. See you next Monday.
What's it like to work with her?
So I can use the onboard phone during the flight?
I would like to cancel one of my accounts.
Oh, no. You can never tell whether such-and-such is science or sheer fraud.If horoscope is really something deceptive, how come quite a size of proportion of young people think highly of it.
We should take a packed lunch on the journey. The food they sell on the trains is always expensive.
Yes, it will be ready then.
Hello. Mr. Zhang. It's Mary.
Are you coughing much?
No problem, sir.
Have you already forgotten? What's the date today?
Yes. We should plant more trees and grass to stop the sand from spreading.
Oh, it's the Beijing 2008 Olympics ' Emblem. It's a Chinese seal, meaning that Chinese people warmly welcome the friends from all over the world.
No, really, it feels great.
Usually, you cannot prepare for these questions in advance and have to depend on your immediate performance.
We ’ re going to the movies. Will you join us?
It's a popular game with some people, but I've never played it.
Good! How much is it?
I see your point. However, it might be hard to get a raise approved. Profits were down last quarter, and the whole company is tightening its belt, so anything that affects the annual budget
Actually, you only need to give 7 days notice if you wish to withdraw funds. Of course, you will lose some interest due to the withdrawal.
How did you feel when you graduated?
Maybe you ’ re right.
You are waltzing quite wonderfully. It's great to dance with a experience and talent partner.
I must tell you that because your banking has been such a large amount, you need to wait until you leave the country to get any currency back.
I see. How long does it take you to reach the office every day?
Yes, so far as we know, in the field, your company has lots of experience and we hope you will consider the tender seriously.
I will set it up.
If I wanted to rent a van, how much would it cost?
Would you like some coffee, Tom?
( later ) Here ’ s your card, sir. You ’ re all checked in. let me just tell you about a few of our services. We have free breakfast in the lounge from 7:00- 9:00. You call the receptionist to arrange
What about this picture? I think Benjamin would like it.
Thank you. Nice to meet you too. I'm John. Is this your first time to take a long-distance trip on plane.
Too easy questions. Listen carefully. Hollywood is the movie capital of the world.It is located in southern California. Many films have been made there, and the kinds have changed often.
Rude? You weren't rude at all, Annie. Why do you think you were rude?
Just take my umbrella in case of rain.
Oh well, do you know if the Susan Li is available?
You will need to pay for the damage.
Then you also need to be aware of the time limits on the street signs. Have you seen those signs?
Yes, and I'm a very good driver.
OK. I left my cell phone in my room this morning before I want out.When I come back it was gone. I have looked every where in my room and I can't find it.
Great! Pasta for dinner.
Ladies, Hotel policy requires one nine of room charge as deposit.
Well... guess how low the bidding starts on the tennis racket?
Why? Do I have to order that?
Hi, I'm Benjamin. Nice to meet you here. You look great.
Excuse me, Ma ' am. I would like to mail this package door to door via airmail to London. It is a very important package and has to be sent within 3 days.
Right, that ends the third and final part of our presentation. I'd like to end by emphasizing the main points. I'll give you a brief summary. There are three potential areas for development in the future, domestic, overseas market, and the internet. Each of these markets have their own particular need for marketing strategy... for domestic, we can rely on past research, for overseas markets we depend heavily on our cultural consultants, and for the internet, we need to redo our image to appeal to a young set of consumers. Our main issue here is that we need to be sensitive to the needs of different markets in order to continue to see success. Mark, did you have anything to add?
I don't think that the service was good, either.
Excuse me, could you tell me how to get to the Cross Bakery building?
Do I have to send an E-mail?
Ok. Boy, this looks expensive.
oh, that's exciting. What's this guy like? Is he hot?
It fell out of the garbage bag.
That's great. I'll take her.
I just saw her down the street. I don ’ t know where she is. I don ’ t know...
The May Day holiday is coming. Have you made any plan? Are you going to stay here or go out for a traveling?
Of course, we'd be happy to cash it for you.
This is a series of animals, called Chinese zodiac.
Yes. By the way, you are having a great make-up today. I like the color of your lipstick. So adorable!
Oh, I didn't actually teach in the schools. I taught after school. I taught in English institutes.
Don ’ t worry. I'll buy a new necklace as same as the old one.
You're embarrassed, aren't you? You gotta loosen up in Little Italy. The lady at the cafe will kiss you when you meet her...
If you refuse to blow, you'll receive a much severer punishment.
Thank you, Mr. White.
No, thanks, I ’ ll come back later. May I reserve a table for two?
You're under arrest for concealing illegal drugs.
Only then did I realize it was April Fools ' Day.
Last night on the dresser. I took it off before I went to the shower, and forgot to put it back on after the shower. And this morning I left the hotel in a hurry without wearing it.
The ticket was for parking in the red zone.
My wife and I want to go to Beijing for a tour. Can you arrange it?
I ’ m surprised to hear that. I thought you had some very good suggestions.
We are going to use this cuff here, and it will give me a reading.
That's true.Just hope Wendy can recover from the pain of divorce soon.
I beg your pardon?
what's the cost?
Absolutely. I think I still have the boarding passes from our flight here somewhere.
Please forgive me. You have my word. I'll spend some time with you on the weekend. I promise.
Yes, I'm from Salt Lake City.
I am in a hurry. Please take a shortcut. I have a friend waiting for me.
No, forget that! Do the tourniquet first. I'm losing too much blood.
That's not the gadgets.Creating programmes is stimulate thoughts.
My Master Card.
She means business, for sure.
It starts at one and yea, let's meet there. It's the cinema on the corner of Lincoln and Main.
That's right.
I guess I expected too much from the movie, so I was a bit disappointed.
Hello? Is that Mark?
Have some more tea, George.
The line is connected. Please go ahead.
I envy them the sun.
We'll remain open from 9 a. m. till 8 p. m.
Well, I certainly did.
twenty of them are going abroad to China and America.
You do? I just bought this outfit a couple days ago.
Great! When you become new driver, you are better drive as carefully as possible!
I see. By the way, what if I forget to cash my money when the maturity comes?
Oh, all right. Have him come over here for dinner. But you get to make dinner!
Since you already paid for your permit, you don't have to pay again.
Hi, John, this is Mary, your tenant up in Lincoln Park.
Sorry.What was that you said?
Can you leave me your phone number?
No problem. Please fill in this transfer form that will authorise us to send the amount from the Securities Company to your account.
I'll do the second floor and you do the first floor.
But it is really worthwhile.
do you like ever chat online?
Hello, Sir. What can I do for you today?
That's nice. My name is Steven, my phone number is 6789777. Okay, I'll be waiting for his call. Thank you and bye!
Yeah, but it's hard to forget her at moment. You know, we were together for almost five years. It's really hard...
Well, the only free food on the streets is from a soup kitchen, and their soup isn't as tasty as mine!
Would you like to know about benefits and so forth?
We are putting together a birthday party for Mary.
How many departments do we have?
do you have any photos of any of your camping trips there?
yes, on a business trip. How about you?
I am happy to hear that and I'll accept that.
Excuse me? How can I get to the nearest branch of the national bank?
Yeah, I know.
Look at this one sir, eight thousand dollars were spent in one night at a place called ” Wild Things ”?!
Yes. May I help you?
Network is omnipresent nowadays. It's quite convenient for people. You see, we can download music and information from the Internet ; I can study from it, too. And the most of all, we can compose, send, and receive e-mails.
Hello, is that Cathy speaking?
can I read it when you ’ re done?
How can you finance your education abroad? It is very expensive to study abroad.
Oh, I see. She told me that she had learned very quickly how to pour oil on troubled waters, but not to pour oil on the flame.
You said it. Many parents just don ’ t understand know how to educate their children.
Thank you for meeting me at the airport, Steven.
Marquet, do you think I should enroll in the science course?
Company? I heard about you from Linda. She said you were an octopus!
That wasn't very wise, sir.
I know you're right, but what can I do?
Are you joking? Get the supplier on the line now! They have to assume the costs of this mess!
Would you like an apartment for just yourself, or do you need it for two people?
Oh... Sure. We have an entire month! In traditional Chinese culture, Ghost Month is a period when the door between this world and beyond opens up and ghosts come back to earth for a visit.
I think so. They don't sell shoddy cloth for one thing.
Right now he speaks mostly English, and he can say a few Chinese words. But he will learn in the future.
Who's Brad?
I want to buy a wallet.
Hi, I'm looking into your loans and I'm a little confused about the interest rates. Could you give me some advice?
As a matter of fact, you are really a terrific photographer.
Leopard. It's famous brand of good quality.
Why didn ’ t you just answer my question directly? Why would Chinese answer questions this way? I simply asked if you did it or not. It’s a very simple question. And Chinese often give the reason before they would give a direct answer.
Sure. How do you like your meal today?
Cash, credit card, or debit card?
Please call me Jack. Have a seat, please.
Come and see the kitchen.
Mr. Crane ’ s office. Sandy speaking. May I help you?
And thank you very much for letting me keep it so long.
Yeah. I'm going to my locker to get my jacket. Catch you later.
I was in the bank at the time.
I just want to make sure that there is possibility of giving us a loan.
No.sir. If only you check out before 15:00
No, I always cook.
What research are you dealing with now?
That should give us time for a cup of coffee. I'll go and get some.
I would recommend we scrap this one and you bring in another set as soon as possible.
Oh, by the way, could you give me a ride? My car is still in the garage.
Personally, I quite like the new perfume from Clinique. It's a subtle flowery scent. What do you think?
Have you ever had snow in your city?
It starts at 11AM in the morning.
All right, I'll have it registered, then.
Of course, the sports shoes don ’ t go with the formal occasions.
I don ’ t think so. As the saying goes, “ A great oak needs deep roots. ” I ’ m really interested in this job.
Oh, yes, please. But you are just closing, aren't you?
Mr. Johnson? Mr. Johnson?
Oh yes, he is. When he was a puppy, he liked to chew my father's shoes, but he's okay now.
Rivers have created deep valleys and canyons like the grand canyon.
What time does it start?
You need to come over here and face this plate.
Yes, and I don't want to be interrupted.
Has anything been upsetting you lately?
Keep your fingers crossed. He may pop the question one of these days.
yes, but this was the worst turbulence I'd ever experienced in my life! Everyone started getting sick. The flight attendants had to stay in their seats. The captain decided to land early.
What do you think of the apartment?
Mr.Cook is on Line Six. I'll put you through.
How about the shelf?
Oh. It looks like Jack is going to make his annual speech.
What's taking you so long?
Sure. We try our best.
Should we walk?
Good. Good luck to you!
I Know. And you should be more careful, too.
You have to help to the laundry today.
When did you get that?
It's written in English too, in smaller print.There.
my boss told me that I could either go home early or take a long lunch break another day, so I decided to wait and take a long lunch break another time.
not far. About 150 meters perhaps.
Why don't you look outside?
Each month it'll cost $ 24 for a new sticker.
Here is your room. I hope you like it.
I participated in several extracurricular activities. And I worked 2 jobs to put myself through school.
Stop running around in front of the TV, will you? Why don ’ t you just sit and watch?
It'll be fine.
I thought they had already agreed to everything. That ’ s going to take weeks to rework.
I don't like Folk music very much.
What's the time? My watch has stopped.
definitely. That's why many cross-cultural marriages end in divorce.
Why, Tom? It's five to six already and you are still writing here.
It is very confusing to know what to eat.
Great. That ' s just the sort of thing I'm looking for. Thanks.
Monday night? Monday night I was at a great concert.
My old card is perfect, so all I want you to do is copy it exactly.
Can I transfer it to my remaining account?
Yes, I'd like them sent to this address.
Yes, she's free then.
I'll do it someday. But it's not the right time now. I have to learn a lot by working as an employee.
What should we do this Saturday?
Do bullfights interest you much?
That ’ s my problem. I don ’ t have a lot of options.
OK. The Dragon Boat Festival is a way to commemorate a great ancient poet named Quyuan. On that day, people will hold a boat race as a symbol of the attempt to save him who threw himself into the river.
Yes, I am expecting to get the bonus. I hope we will both get the salary and bonus.
Well, It’s really too late. I have to go now.
You're right. Would you please show me some embroidery? I also want to buy some embroidered tablecloths to match the tapestry.
What about any special Beijing dishes?
Then where will we have the ceremony? At home?
You really have talent. How did you learn to do this?
We ’ re looking for a three-bedroom home.
Can you put your hand where it hurts the most?
You want to go to the movies tonight?
Very well. And my favorite subject is Chinese.
At 8 o'clock.
that ' s really good. It's very important to feel like you are part of the team at work.
Four stamps, please. How much is that?
No, this taxi is free.
Waiter, come back.
That's great. How much is it to the airport
He's really good looking.
Yes, I know. The boarding time on the ticket says 17
Excuse me, sir. What kind of drink do you want?
I just want to have a coffee, I think.
Did you vote yesterday?
What do you mean sick? It was really funny, don't you think?
Did you go camping last Saturday?
well, I guess we'd better grab our umbrellas then, as well.
Small rooms, small window, a small desk shared by three people. I would have been interrupted all the time and for sure not be able to deliver good work.
I think you can give me some advice.You have worked here longer, and I just want to know what you think.
It sounds like you weren't expecting that.
Operations is made up of Manufacturing, Materials, Shipping and Distribution etc.
Can you look after my son for me tonight?
It only costs you 20 dollars for one.
No, thanks. Maybe another time.
it looks good on the outside, but the inside is a different story. It needs a lot of servicing before it can go out on the roads again.
It's a pleasure.
I know what you mean. I fit into my clothes, but I'm not always comfortable.
This is room 2012. Where is my laundry? You promised to send to me this morning.
Yes, we got wet through. But we still enjoyed ourselves.
A small bag. I guess we also need a few oranges.
Welcome to IBA. What can we assist you with today?
Don ’ t worry. I ’ ll get it done very soon. I ’ m almost finished.
The binders have current local jobs listings and the computer jobs lists are good too. Understand?
My flight No. is 102 leaving Baiyun Airport at fourteen twenty.
It's quiet everywhere in winter.
Then the north line is the right track for you to take.
Thank you, but I really want to relax myself. I ’ m very sorry.
You have to get off at the hospital and change for bus 15.
We need milk, eggs, butter, coffee, vegetables, fruit, bread, cheese, and some snacks.
I am dealing with the study of the architecture style of ancient Chinese buildings.
I see, thank you very much!
No more, thank you very much.
No. A Walk in the Woods.
I don't know. I want my clothes to be clean.
It's certainly a popular hobby. I know a lot of people love stamps.
The balcony is still available.
Ok. Let me call you later. Is that okay?
You're welcome.Bye.
Oh, I'm so happy. I will try my best to love you and protect you. I promise.
That's right. How nice to see you again.
Friday at 6 pm. would be perfect.
If that's the case, I'll have to go somewhere else to meet my needs.
Did you lock the doors?
That's the beauty of these machines, you can do almost anything. And unlike a person, they don't usually take breaks or go off sick!
I see that you have bought several new pots and pans and utensils.
When is he coming?
Very well. Welcome, Mr. Rodgers. Would you please fill out the registration card? How are you doing today?
Excuse me. My name is David Walker. Haven't we met before?
Thanks. Some tea would be nice. Chinese tea is great. I really like your tea set. Where did you get it?
It said that people with a positive attitude 7 tend to live longer and happier.
Yes, I will.
Yes, sir. Will there be anything else?
How in the world! Who came up with seats like that from your company?
I was going 35 in a 40 mph zone.
Unfortunately, you won ’ t be getting a rent check unless these problems are fixed by Friday.
Is 11:30 AM OK?
Yeah, he has a good commend of computer skills. But...
You must be lonely. I will share my friends with you.
Let's hurry. I'm starving!
We are doing ' Secret Santa ' at the office again this year.
It feels like you are not dedicate to our relationship. It seems like you treat it as a just casual dating.
Why don't you wear a scarf?
I know I have what it takes but Im worried that my work experience won ’ t sufficient. Should I inflate my experience?
It’s primarily design for business transactions. That is write checks to pay the bills, buying things and sending money. We won ’ t expect a large amount of deposit in current account.
I like this colour and it is very bright.
It's a long time since you had a haircut last time, isn't it?
I always knew she was the one, but I decided to pop the big question about 2 weeks ago. I'm just debating on how to do it.
No, Ma'am. Installation isn't included.The price I quoted was just for the units.
Turbulence is pretty normal, isn't it?
Which one has better nightlife?
Three dollars and forty cents.
I want to find a book called Gone with the Wind. But I can't find it.
One hundred and fifty dollars? What about this other one over here?
I would actually like to view the apartment for rent today.
I need to take care of some business that morning.
Boy, Todd, that was one great movie you picked out! Thanks for asking me to go with you!
shall we keep Our friendship?
No, we didn ’ t. I guess you ’ re right. We should patch things up.
Hi, Charlie! What are you reading?
May I have a cookie?
I've already got your certificate for sick leave. How do you feel today?
Congratulations! Why do people hold parties before the baby is born?
He can just say, I'm Benjamin. I'm new and shy.
She will be 86 next month.
excuse me, is this the way to the Greta Wall?
You are welcome. Please feel free to ask if you have any more questions.
Can't you give me a break on this? We've already spent so much money on lighting, I hate to have to blow so much more on halogens.
Where is that cool guy, Dick? I haven ’ t seen him for two weeks.
I'm on time today
Did you ever see this kind of beautiful scene?
I recommend Nisei products. This brand has a face cream which is effective on fading freckles.
Well, you see. I don't like the office. I don't like the staff and I'm afraid you and I don't get on. So may I put in for a transfer?
The TV news doesn't tell us the race anymore.
By the way, I'd prefer a night flight.
The price is moderate, but their work is sometimes not satisfactory.
Can we talk?
Well, this is certainly a nice place, Mr. Taylor. What sort of public transportation is nearby?
Well, if you want to help your friend, you should do something about it.
Yes. I remember.But we never used to argue.You used to think I was wonderful.Where are you going?
Really! Did she tell you why she didn't show up?
why? Did tom pop the question?
Shone. And one of my friends ' name is Jessie.
ok. i've got a list of place that fit your requirements. let's just go through them. the first on the list costs 80 pounds a month, but it's on a noisy street and it's a little far from t
I love your little Lulu dolls.How much for a batch of 6,000?
And I recently bought an American-style washer and dryer. Come and see.
I won't be paying you for this.
You are right. In China, ' round ' is an auspicious word. The moon cakes are in round shape.
Hi, I would like to make a dinner reservation.
I would recommend that you at least glance through these brochures, just to make sure that you have selected the right policy for you. Take your time, Sir.
I think she misses that job and wants to take it out on us.
I suppose so.
Hi, my name is Sovia.What ’ s your name?
Sure. Actually it's a routine board meeting. The things to be discussed are all written here.
No problem. I'm really looking forward to the coming week.
definitely. Would you like skim or whole milk?
You need to give me your ID and $ 27.
Oh? You mean, the ATM machine has eaten it?
Really? That's too bad! You should be at home in bed. It's really important to get a lot of rest.
some of my Chinese colleagues just share their personal stories in front of others.
Would you please make a skirt for me with this material please?
It is extremely beautiful.This is the very thing I've been dreaming of.Please put in a gift box for me.
Deposit it into my checking account.
Yes, our delivery fee could be waived, if you make an order of 50 units or more. We would have to insist on the annual contract, however. I understand it's not the most convenient for you. Perhaps we could shorten it to a sixth month contract if you are willing to take a lower rebate.
Here you are. You left the medicine here.
How have you been feeling lately?
I suppose. And What about the sunroof? Is that standard?
If my husband cheated on me or treated me badly, I would get a divorce.
W-Y-A-T-T, Got it. I haven ’ t heard of the name.Could you hold on the line when I check.
For detailed information, however, you should read a history book.
The brown leather shoes go well with your trousers.
I want to work in an office.
Do I have to focus it?
His new girlfriend is a far cry from Ann. She is like a breath of fresh air.
You dance beautifully.
What could be worse than what you just told me?
I enjoyed talking to you.
I've just contacted our technicians. They say they can go to your factory tomorrow afternoon. Can you tell me your factory's address, so they can find you easier?
You look really nice today.
Well, I maybe talked to Mr. Drummond too directly. I thought I maybe said too much. I don't want him to be angry.
Okay, okay, we'll split it 50/50.
Ok, where and when should I meet you?
I suppose the additional premium for the special coverage is for the buyer's account.
Jacob, are you interested in helping me out and going on a blind date with a friend of mine?
There are a lot of people from China visiting right now.
I hope that I cleared things up for you.
What ’ s the letter about?
Certainly, sir. What is the flight number and when are you leaving?
All right.That ’ s very nice of you.
Could you tell me how this thing is cooked?
They're transported to the workstations on automated vehicles - robot trucks - which run on guide rails around the factory.
Did you see the interview with Andy Lau in cosmopolitan magazine last month?
Well, how much are they?
How will I know how much I can collect on unemployment?
Yes, but let me check if he's available.
well, when it's nicer outside, you can start biking to work. That will give you just as much freedom as your car usually provides.
Come on. She's like that with everyone.
Well, if were you, I'd go to the police station straight away and report it.
Intermediate Three. And what about you?
I don't know whether or not to believe him.
I will explain it again ; especially for those of you who arrived late.
Oh, I see. And can your family utilize 5 the health insurance, too?
Can I get you some punch? I was just going to go get myself some.
There isn't a lot, why, do you have a large load to wash?
What kind of room would you like, madam?
I think you'd better apologize.
Everything's been good with you?
OK, sir. Please call me when you are ready.
Early next month. In the meantime, I should be very pleased if you would get everything ready. I hope that the goods can be dispatched promptly after you get my L / CB
Increasing exports would weaken the currency. I think the main point is economic growth. We need more jobs. Factories have outsourced and moved many jobs to foreign countries. The result is an increase in unemployment in our own country, lower consumption, lower production, and an overall feeble economy. If more people are working, it will give the economy a boost.
All right. In my first teaching position I received the Excellent Teaching award the past two years in succession.
I really couldn't understand him.
Here you are. Which platform should I go to wait for the train?
Are you ready?
Five. Besides my parents and me, there are my brother and sister.
Excuse me, what did you say?
Give me your telephone number, please.
Hi, Mr. Wang. Do you feel like going boating with me?
Yes. This is Mr. Wang in Room 1305. Please send up a boy to help me with my luggage.
Do you have any work experience in promotion?
Our seafood is fresh. I recommend shrimp with garlic.
I'm sorry. These batteries are not on sale.
It's all right! I often fry sausages when my mom is not at home.
Last time I lent you money, you never paid me back.
Honey, how is by you?
It's my dream.
I don't know. Maybe they're really crazy.
You're such a neat freak! I'm outta here!
Of course. I am a nurse and a nurse tells the truth.
Could you go with me to climb Kiang Shan?
I sure hope so. We've each invited about 10 people.
How late do you try to go to sleep?
Baby's wipes. Johnson's.
A shouting match? You ’ re so funny. You must be exaggerating. I don ’ t believe it.
We're an Employment Agency.
The demographic reports are in... From the looks of it, we're going to have to re-evaluate some of the content for our promotional events in different venues.
Do you think Kentucky fried chicken is good?
Yes, they are the latest designs. Would you like to try them on?
Thanks. Now fill this out.
I don't know why Mark often comes to me and asks me for advice. I smell some rat in it.
That ’ s something we can discuss later.
Anna, Would you like to dance?
What happened that you didn't get it done?
I really wish it wasn't so hot every day.
I worked with him for two years. That was the worst time in my career.
Oh, hi, Jessica, are you going to see this movie too?
Quite sure. I mean that hair of hers and the voice of hers.
What did I do wrong? Did I take a wrong turn?
When is the product going to be on the market?
Well, if spicy local dishes are what you are looking for, In Hua Restaurant is the best place to go. The restaurant serves very good and spicy local dishes. You might want to try there.
I think I'm going to like it here.
I remember my first break up. It was the worst feeling in the world. I was crying everyday for three months. And slowly, it got better. I know you'll feel better too.
Right. I enjoy what I'm doing.
really? I thought his parents had died several years ago.
Ok, I see. Good luck to you. You have my number. Call me when you change your mind. I can send you more detailed information about company and jobs you might be interested in if you give me your private e-mail address.
Sure. We have a one-day trip along the river. It's quite beautiful.
What's the weather like in your city?
Good, here's your ticket and four dollars change.
Yes, surely. We hope to do some substantial business with you.
Good morning, sir. Are you checking out now?
According to your estimate, what is the maximum annual turn - over you can fulfill, in round figures, of course?
We really can ’ t ask him to stop having students come in for help, can we?
Double P for Papa?
Yes, it is better than last year. They have done a very good job this time.
That'll be 14 dollars in all.
it's good to have business around. But you should also do some exercise to keep fit.
well, this might be silly. But I just can't get him off my mind. And I can't help missing him.
I understand your position. Perhaps It’s time to stop floating and go back to where you belong. You ’ ll feel much better with your family around.
No problem, sir. Just tell me your name, phone number, and date of reservation.
My apologies, sir. We'll transfer you to a new room at once and give you a full refund.
I'll be happy to try.
Hmm, they're not too bad.
Resume Writing and Interviewing are our two most popular workshops.
Thank you for calling me. I will be there on time.
How much does the pair cost?
It could also help you increase vital capacity.
Honey, seriously, It’s just a sheep. Relax!
Thanks honey! You have such great fashion sense. Now, what am I going to do with my hair?
Hello. This is the Directory Assistance. Can I help you?
No, thank you! I want an apartment, not a prison.
That isn't true. Actually, we have been separated for six months.
Yes. I worked in a small machinery factory. My work was very simple and there was not much work to do.
Wow, this's sinking a hole.
It seems to me that you always do better than you say.
Please wait for us even if we're a little late.
That settles it then. 5,000 RIB it is, thanks.
Will you fill out this form, please?
Your cousin Fay is fifteen. Rosemary is older than Fay. She's seventeen.
Is there anything else that doesn't cost as much?
Really? Come on, I'll introduce them to you.
In which subject did you get the highest marks?
I have made a mistake?
I am going on a business trip to Guangzhou next Monday morning.
Will I need stitches?
No, I think Harry will get it.
fantastic! I got an overall score of eight.
The morning one, please. I want to go coach.
Mr. Smith, please.
Dutch, where's that?
Hey, what sort of drinks do you want? Gatorade or water?
Yes, it was really stupid.
I understand. But why won't you show me the logo?
It can ’ t be more than fourteen days late for us to accept it.
I bought a new mattress and some fresh bedclothes. I also bought a new dressing table and a new bedside table.
Can you give me the number for Jessica Hanson on locks Ave?
You'll be covered by our medical plan while on duty.Since you'll be middle management, you're expected to be available up to 1.5 hours past normal working hours.Any approved time over that will be paid at time and a half, which you can take as salary or time off.
Sure, no problem. Is your prescription ready?
Good afternoon, Mr.Chen. How are you?
How much money are you looking to make?
Let me see. Would it be all right on Wednesday morning?
I want to have the overcoat made to measure.
I need to get some beef.
Well, I ’ m going to move out anyway. The new apartment has central air-conditioning.
Is this your first time visiting Beijing?
when's the last time you took your tablets?
This isn't like you... Well, I hope you will have a nice flight and a successful start in business.
For instance, some products that do very well in Tokyo branch are a flop in Malaysia.We ' re talking about different people with different lifestyles and different needs. Each of the branches takes these types of things into consideration when they compile their reports and their marketing plans.
Maybe I could buy some Cognac for my brother. He always drinks it.
Yes, I'm serious. I'm really sorry about missing your concert.
You won't need it. Tom is going to treat everybody!
Well, I have got you three first class tickets and I have reserved your seats. Your seat numbers are 8A, 8B and 8C.
I'm looking for the produce section, please.
What do I do with it?
Good idea. Where shall we go?
So, we propose your company apply to Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation for a long-term loan. Six months before each shipment, you through Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation open, in our favour, an irrevocable, dividable L / C which is to remain valid for two months.
I am not very sure. Maybe for three days.
Hi, I'm Jake. I'm new to the choir. What's your name?
Good afternoon. Welcome to China. May I see your passport, customs and health declaration form?
You seem to be a man of imagination and logic.
To press the suit only takes 3 hours. The laundry will be returned to you tomorrow around noon time. Is that all right?
These are due back in two weeks.
Sure, but only in the rear, and only cigarettes. And alcohol is not allowed.
Any idea about James? He ’ s a pain in the neck.
I would like to get my driver's license today.
Hopefully, we ’ ll both have relaxing weekends.
I see.The bus doesn't come so often as in cities.
Hello, JC Consulting PLC. Chris Edwards speaking.
True, learning how to haggle the price is one of the things people have to pick up when they come to China for the first time.
So nice to meet you, David. Call me Bill. It's very nice of you to come here.
A lot of people in my dorm are sick. Perhaps I picked it up there.
Cool! Is it safe for us to eat there though?
Not bad! Do you do any other sports?
Are you able to operate the telex?
no. let me take a look... It’s longer than my car.
You must have a wonderful time.
Yes, I would also like some sweet and sour sauce and pepper.
Sure. Let's buy it.
I ’ m glad to meet you, Mr. Song.
First National Bank.
The 16:45, please.
Thanks. I'm so excited. We've been trying for 8 months now.
As I said, I am diligent and industrious. On the other hand, I am too hard-working and I put myself under much pressure to make things perfect.
Oh, you don ’ t have to do that but it would be a great help.
it was fantastic, but I'm glad to be back! Being a tourist is really tiring!
I guess you'll read the fine print next time, won't you!
Do you have any plans for further study?
You wanna take some time off, is that right?
Oh. Where can I add some air to my tires?
I prefer sea food.
Yes, could you please go over this for me? And see if there is any mistake in it?
Do you feel better?
true. The news says that there is a general increase in the price of daily necessities.
Please take 2 tablets each time, 4 times a day.
OK, murder will out!
It's July 7th. Chinese Valentine's Day!
Yes it is. Think about it. If nobody paid any attention to anything then what's it all for anyway?
Don't forget it's Friday nighty. If Frankfurt's anything like London, everybody will be leaving for the weekend. It will be a rush hour and traffic might be moving very slowly.
And the stove is brand new. You know how to use a gas stove, right?
Do you think you can fix my computer?
Do you have any certificate that has something to do with tourism?
Yes, sir. We have a fine exercise facility.
Wait a minute! My uncle lives in Beijing and he lives very close to the theatre. I'll telephone him and ask him to go there to inquire about it. You'd better have breakfast now and I'll meet you later.
It’s on the other side of this floor.
Oh, OK, I said ( XXXXXXXXXX ) on time.
Not at all! She's really been around, and seemed quite accustomed to bargaining like this. That's the trade. She only demanded a higher bid, saying the purchase price was even higher than seventy. She was lying! Then I inquired, ' May I have it at sixty? ' she waved her head.
In the good old days, it was only five cents a copy. I'll be right down.
This is my first, I only met jane last week. she and I teach at the same school.
I guess I've done the same thing last time I was here with her, too. I mean falling asleep. For me, this one is not that attractive.
Really? What do the companies do that for?
Well, China is located on the Eurasia plate, where earthquakes happen frequently due to the earth's plates knocking against each other.
About 50 dollars.
That is good news.
Do you think so? Well, I guess. He does look a lot like me. Oh, he ’ s got Richard ’ s eyes though.
Ah yes, I'd like to book two rooms for myself and my father. Could you tell me the cost of a single room per night?
Do you believe in UFOs?
Hi, Shirley. I'm Sophie. It's nice to meet you.
You know, on a date. They're going to dinner.
He sure is!
Well, I've thought about doing the part-time Chemistry Certificate course at Technical College. I think I would really benefit from doing that.
maybe. How about a mochaccino? Are they any good?
Sir, we are terribly sorry for that.We will refund the charge and send your laundry to your room 3 hours later. Is that all right?
I usually spend 30 minutes on the bicycle for the Carpio, and then I lift weight for about 45 minutes.
I am checking out. Here is the key to my room.
Thank you for your compliments.
Could you please reserve a taxi for me?
That's the best price we can offer.
Oh, no! I ’ Ve been assigned to work with Jerry for our group project.
It is still a mystery to me.
Yes, I'm sorry about that. One of our Atms is down and we are waiting for it to be repaired, but it should be up and running again very soon.
Well I have to go, Rock Sam. You take it easy, OK.
Hello, there. How can I help?
My sister already gave him one. I like something unusual.
How often do you service the pump?
That ’ s the warehouse. We keep a stock of the faster moving items so that urgent orders can be met quickly from stock.
Plastic bags are widely used nowadays.
So you are all set. You can have these books for two weeks. If you need to have them longer, you can bring them here to renew them. If you don't, you get charged ten cents a day for each book.
I've always admired scientists.
I ’ m not going to know anybody there.
I'll try to read it. Actually, I like literature very much.
Oh, you mean Pavarotti, Domingo and Carreras. Have you been to their live shows?
I think he ’ s the boy who just moved into my apartment building.
It's leap my mind. I really feel terrible about it.
I mean, what ’ s up with the locks and iron bars on your windows.
In the case, maybe facial charm should be his leading card. After all, the majority of his fans are girls.
There,... we're about done.
$ 20 a dozen.
Tim ’ s smiles are interesting.
I had the soup and bruschetta which all together is £ 4.50 and my trout for the main course was £ 12.
I prefer TV play to football.
Yes, madam, how much would you like to remit?
Fantastic! I can ’ t believe it! That ’ s the biggest account we ’ Ve gotten so far!
Maybe we can try ' Yuanyang pot ' this time. You can choose the non-spicy soup base.
People don't usually tip here, but you can.Fifty dollars should be more enough.
How far is that?
Where is your seat?
Why? We can leave school earlier that day.
Why ’ d you have to do that?
He was talking and causing a disturbance during class.
Yes. I would like a ticket to Pakistan on CA.
Look! It fits you perfectly. It looks great on you and has your name on it.
It takes some time for the stuff you buy online to arrive. But I think this problem will be solved soon.
I hope that I can finally find free time too. I ’ Ve been so busy at work recently.
So what are you doing for Thanksgiving?
And do I take that road?
But I am only half a person as you and they charge both of us the same price tickets.
Do you have anything in particular that you would like our firm to take into account?
Yes, I did like Spanish and Music. But I don't remember much Spanish.
Do you know what you want to drink?
You are suspected of hiding illegal drugs. So we are taking you into custody.
Three thousand! That's almost too good to be true.Did she say why her friend wants to sell it?
No, I'm full.
I guess you can't have everything, can you?
There are so many environment problems in the world today. Do you think we can really solve them all or will destroy the world?
No. He likes to leave his things about and never cleans the room.
Here's my passport. Is that OK?
As far as I know, the nearest one is next to the Willdon.
OK. But which size should I use?
That might be a little too cold for some people.
They ’ re really running you into the ground. Why don ’ t you ask for some time off? You could take a long weekend and go away somewhere.
It’s takes only about 10 minutes
Yes, but I didn't really like the third one at all.
do you have a favorite band?
Slide your card through the card ID pad and punch in your PIN.
It sounds like Bob's getting out of bed.
I'm afraid yes. But what about the data I stored in the computer?
You have a warrant out for your arrest.
Do you guys do anything special?
The problem is the split ends. They make your hair look even more frizzy.
Don't worry. You don't have to do anything.All you have to do is listen. You will enjoy it.
Yes, I turned it off when the fight got heated in it.
Yes, but to the health, this break has long enough.
When I say your prices are much too high, I don ’ t mean they are higher merely by 2 or 3 percent.
Let me see. He's free from 3:00 to 4:30 tomorrow afternoon. Can you make it then?
I would like to return these books.
The 268 is the first bus you need to catch.
Would you get some that new cereal we saw advertise on TV.
Oh, sure, I understand. I'd be happy to send you a promotional packet about the programs that I think might best suit a company of your size. Would it be okay if I called again to see if you have any questions?
No problem, if possible I always combine business with pleasure. Now, let ’ s hear more about these chocolates you ’ re offering.
Right now I show that there are 176 people on the list. And you are number 176.
I ’ m sorry. Our company has just opened. There are always too many things to handle. You know that.
Yes. But we should hire someone for that. That will probably be expensive. And it has to be done right.
I'm sorry. There isn't. Because different people have to write different kinds of reports.
Yes, I have two large suitcases and one box.
All right. I agree with you. But where do we hold arbitration?
Right.Let me see.You go straight down here and turn right.
The thing is, I've got all of this information here, all of these leaflets, but I can't make head nor tail of them!
No, I don't. Usually I'm very careful about checking the money I'm given, but for some reason this one slipped through.
Okay, if you'll just sign here, please.
There are not so many people like you.
No, no. I mean stealing vegetables on Internet is very popular now. Many white collars join in this game and have a lot of fun by stealing others ' vegetables.
People with high blood pressure seldom know they have it, which is why we call it the silent killer.
I really like where I ’ m at now.
OK, I'll do that.
I only want to transfer $ 100.
Why are you interested in the position?
Bring me one and besides, I would like to have a chicken cream soup.
That's great. But how long do I have to wait?
Well, I ’ m really glad we bumped into each other. Have a good trip.
Oh, is there? Will you find someone to take us to the hospital then?
Sir, if it makes you feel any better, the $ 2 service fee used to be $ 5.
If they could make beautiful ads, I could bear.
He seems to win awards everywhere.
Do most students in the United States attend private schools or public schools?
I ’ m not kidding.
Beth, would you like me to help you carry it?
"She came over last weekend. She is a nice girl but there's something about her voice that really creeps me out. I tried to smile and be polite, but the whole time all I could think was "" what's wrong with your voice? """
I'll pay by charge card then.
But when I pick the restaurant, we go to a place that has both chicken and fish. I always respect your food preferences.
Sure, did you receive the sample we sent last week?
I guess not, huh.
Do you get along with your parents now?
Seeing as next month is our slow season, that should not be a problem.
By crunching the numbers and putting in your expenses, I estimate that you can afford a house of around five hundred thousand dollars.
How many ports do we call at on our passage?
Yes, that would be good!
I'll leave at 10 o'clock.
Not back home for dinner again? That ’ s the third time this week!
Of course. I ’ Ve been working as an office clerk in the Textile Company since my graduation. I do a lot of things, such as typing, handling the daily correspondence, arranging meetings and so on.
Yeah. I like it, Dad.
But I heard that our Milky way galaxy may one day collide with a neighboring galaxy. If galaxies are moving apart from each other, how can they collide?
Not really. I ’ d really like to try golf, though.
I had a pretty strict up-bring, and my parents and I were always fighting about it.
Yeah. What's going on?
OK. Wish me luck!
It is? Oh, that's nice.
Mike, I had a good time too, but I am getting ready to move back to the east coast, so I think I shouldn't get too involved right now.
Yes, sir. May I have your laundry ticket, please?
I don't think I have the discipline for that.
I will show you.
Ok, I understand. But why you choose us to work for?
I heard that Kevin got divorced. Is that true?
I will think over your advice.
Oh, no. He is not breathing and there ’ s no pulse. Call 911.
Carrie, are you ok? You seem a bit down.
I'm done now. Do you like it?
I used your computer. And I ’ m afraid I ’ Ve erased your personal files accidentally.
What's your plan?
I once played truant when I was in college because I intended to organize a donation activity for the disaster-hit areas in Sichuan.
I see. There was also the famous ping pong diplomacy, wasn't there?
Judy, have you ever made out how much money shall we spend?
It's an important birthday.
You inform the people in charge and let them reserve dinning tables for guests.
Have you been too busy to get enough sleep?
Very affordable mam. You can take it out of this lot today with 0 % down payment and no interest for the first year! You can test drive it now and we can sign the papers when we get back.
It is ' www. job. com '
The hotel is near to People's Square. Its name is Bai Ju Hotel.
Wow! You look like a drowned rat! Didn't you know there is a thunder-storm today?
My drives were terrible today. I kept slicing the ball into the roughs and sand traps.
We ’ ll give you your money back as long as the stereo is returned in the original packaging and with a receipt.
how does that compare with other models?
Oh, no, I'v already made several trips to Guangzhou, this is my first trip to Beijing though.It is a lot larger than I expected it would be.
Yes, I would like to return these slacks.
We have so Ay! But my favorite happens at Christmas Eve.
O. K. Mr. Smith. Thanks for calling.
I wanted to meet with you to discuss your daughter.
Thanks. Could you tell me where I should deposit my bag?
I know. Things are easier when you know what the weather's going to be like.
OK I will try it. Do you have a small portion? I am afraid I can't finish the large one.
Behave yourself! Don't make any noise. Have you finished your homework?
I have no idea. It was completely out of the blue.
How ’ s Thursday? Does she have any time available then?
Are there many idioms in English?
All right.We are waiting for you at seven.
We've learnt the story of Zheg He Sailing to West Ocean. He is a real great navigator.
With Susan leaving, we should probably look to someone new on board.
Rachel? This is John Emory speaking.
He began to be interested in finance because he thought he would be able to inherit the family ’ s fortune.
You shan't drink more wine in the evening.
Yes, that's what my husband advised me to do. But I'm not sure how long I should save for.
You ’ re welcome. Could I have your name and phone number, please?
Couldn't you extend the delivery period by two weeks? That would make things much easier for us.
I'm sure you know that if the dollar gets stuck, you might have to re-feed it.
Oh, she enjoys spending money on fancy parties.Mona loves to wear sexy dresses, and she has quite a bit of jewelry.
Why are you always so mean?
How long have you got?
I'm glad that you can make it.
it's nice, but it's rather plain. Do you want to try my tiramisu?
We basically sat her down and told her how we felt about her constant criticizing, and how we welcomed her advice but hoped she'd let us do our things. She understood, and now everything is a lot more peaceful.
I hate to do this, but I've got to cancel a reservation I made earlier this week.
There's also a garden.
Thanks for your compliment, but there is still plenty more to learn.
Well, mumm, they... Time for a break! We can talk about it when you get back.
I come from China.Are you American?
You know what you can do?
This applies to internal and external communications.
Maybe I have asking too many questions today.
Calm down. Madam.
How much are you looking to spend?
Look, I've got a problem here. Will you help me?
Wonderful, I'll go with you.
It doesn't matter. Here is the money.
no, of course not. He is still single.
Do you think there's anything we can do to reverse the damage that's been done already?
Please let me know when we get there.
So it looks like we start selling in the U. S. next year.
It's both affordable and it comes with all the appliances.
I have a typical 9 to 5 job. Actually, I work a little longer than 9 to 5 most days.
no, we are just too different. This isn ’ t working.
In this case, you should first keep calm and normal to the face.
She ’ s going to live in Paris.
Not much. I'm still living at home and commuting to school. I ended up dropping that metalworking class I was so excited about. It just wasn't as interesting as I'd hoped. The guidance counselor suggested that I focus on my prerequisite courses so that I can make sure the credits count.
I am sure I'll enjoy some real chinese food then.
I will tell you tomorrow. See you tomorrow, Mary.
Very well. Please sit down here. Do you want me to cut your hair very close?
Much better, thanks.
Someone will be out to take a look any minute now.
A tourist guide must be responsible for arranging and coordinating tour activities, and offering service of transportation, accommodation, sightseeing, shopping and entertainment.
Do I need a visa?
I haven't rented it out yet. Would you like to see it?
Johnny, I wish you ’ d stop reaching for things. Haven ’ t you a tongue?
Very short time. I became an auditor within three months.
It's a lovely day, isn't it?
This cloakroom is open until 10 p. m.
How much is that going to cost me?
Good day! What can we do for you?
How would your boss describe you and your work style?
yes, that was surprising. I heard that they got into a fight and then decided not to go.
Well, your making cinnamon toast inspired me to go out and buy a waffle maker.
I knew everything would work out for you!
I don't quite remember. Why did you ask that?
Hi honey! You ’ ll never guess what! My friends Julie and Alex are getting married!
Your grade will not be a surprise ; you will know what you need to work on.
Have you made the decision yet?
the weather is so warm for December, don't you think?
Yeah, who ’ s calling?
Excuse me. I would like to purchase some travelers ' checks.
Hey! I learn a lot from the psychologists who give advice in those columns!
I think so. Because I've taken one to improve my oral English during summer vacation.
Well, they look lovely, but they ’ re not very practical. I mean, would you wear that dress to the office or walking down the street?
"Yes. I have friends even though I am a man of few words. Just like the old saying goes, "" Actions speak louder than words "". I am a hard-working silent person."
Sorry, I made a mistake. They're on the right side of the TV.
Can you please tell me where you are located?
Maybe he was just visiting someone.
I need to see your ID.
I need some documentation from you. Such as your resident permit, your occupation and salary details and I already have your credit details here.
she told me that even when I become a senior engineer, I'll have to work with the assistant engineers as a team.
Sorry, I'm afraid the hotel is full on those dates.Shall I contact another hotel for you?
Excuse me, could you tell me whether there is a restaurant near here?
Isn't that a bit excessive?
Would you like to come with me?
Do you have an English name?
We can ’ t. if we went that fast, we would break the speed limit.
If you don't mind walking, I know a bus you can take.
Are you crazy? What are you doing four hours online?
Sure. Which kind of gas do you want?
I don't know if it will turn out good.The window might cause the picture to be blurry.
I really want some chocolate.
Yes, it's true. It has been delayed.
I am going fishing in Alaska with my friend, Mark.
I can't decide whether to go to university or to get a job.
Just remember that in that village there ’ s nothing to do. There ’ s not even a pub or restaurant. There ’ s just one small shop with a poor selection of goods.
What are you talking about?
I know, Mr. Farmington. But, I ’ m not sure that I should bring this up with him. I think it would be better if you spoke to him.
Can you recall the games?
I know your feeling. Take it easy and say something to me if you like.
From here, it does look like it could use a little work. Let ’ s see what the interior looks like.
well, first of all, it needs a new engine, which is extremely expensive.
Let me see it, can I? This is a good photograph. Who are these people?
Will that one medication take care of all of my problems?
Excuse me, is this seat taken?
Could you put me through to Dan Aykroyd?
I ’ m studying for my chemistry exam tomorrow.
My major is Business Administration, I am especially interested in Marketing.
You need to get some rest, as you have to get up early in the morning.
People are always gossiping about one another.
You see, but I do business on a commission basis. A commission on your prices would make it easier for me to promote sales. Even two or three percent would help.
Well, thank you for your time and consideration again.
That's right. Mom didn't know where to buy chopsticks for you.
Yes, me too. Oh, here's Susan now. Let me introduce you.
OK. I will send them now.
Why not? What's wrong with it?
Then, you should dress well.
Please lend me some money.
Please tell me something about your insurance background.
No, there were too many people. When she got out of the car, her fans were all screaming, trying to give her flowers and to get her autographs.
Mike's going to have a self-driving traveling across the country.
Any time. But I don't mind eating boxed lunch. The food sanitation is really good too.
I think they will.
oh, It’s a pity. What was the matter?
Do you have to pay to join?
It's amazing that these things still work as well as they do.
homeless youth can easily become involved with drugs and prostitution. Do you do anything to help them?
I took Accounting as my major.
I think so too. I don't like him either. Well, who do you like best?
I don't see why not. We do have some problems, but we are still willing to work hard and wages aren't too high at this point.
That ’ s a little steep for our company.Do you offer any discounts?
Most of the time we were lucky, but once a tree from our front yard was ripped out by its roots and ended up in our living room.
Good morning, Mr. Thomas, it is nice to see you too.
You can! With a little practice.
At 7:50.
His nose is out of joint because we forgot to invite him to the party.
My hat ’ s new, too.
It certainly didn't arrive here that way.
Yes, you can take your letters to the counter over there.
"You might think this strange, but I like the category for “ best foreign language film ""."
we could chat about the topic before class. I could check that what you want to say is logical and it would also give you a chance to practice speaking.
Where are you going to go look for one?
Did I really?
This way, please. Here they are. They're all handmade.
That's too bad.You ' ll have to be more careful nest time.
Then does it go well with my sweater?
Let's go to queue up. There are so many people in the lines.
I come home for lunch.
Get some eggs, milk, and bread.
Come on, dear. I know you mustn ’ t forget it.
You need change.
As far as you could see, is dining at a Chinese table a distinct experience? To what extent does it differ from that in your homeland?
Is the table free?
Make them with French dressing.
That'll be great.
Oh, sorry. There is a pencil behind the cup.
Me either, but I ’ m dealing with it anyway.
Congratulation. What will you do?
That ’ s great.
How does this afternoon at 2 thirty sound to you?
That's true. However at the Fair last March, people were so interested in Chinese garments that the demand this year will surely increase.
Do you think that will be enough to make him have a change of heart?
The Gramercy Tavern is highly rated. It has great food and live jazz, but it's not cheap.
Not a problem. Enjoy the rest of your day.
I am consistently impressed by writers.
Great, do you have any for foreigners? I mean English version?
Thank you for your honesty. I assure you there will be no cockroaches next time.
Hi, Elvin. How are the new programmers I got for you?
It can ’ t be time to get up yet.
How about the microphone and speakers?
I'm about to run out of business cards. I need some new ones.
Well, let's try a size ten. ( He gets another pair and the customer tries a shoe on ) Looks like a perfect fit.
Yes, you must put yourself on a diet.
Did you notice the characters on the lanterns?
That sounds delicious.
I gave everyone a copy of the manual last week. We've had the review board going over everything, and they have come up with a final review. Here's a copy for everyone, and if you have any questions, you can talk to me after the meeting. Basically, the budget review has been completed, with maybe a few polishing details left.
Normally, about 60 people. But it may depend.
Yes, please, thank you.
Hmm. If that's true, then the security there must be very good.Because it's strange to think they will let people walk around in the White House.
Yes.There are trains at seven fifty-nine, nine eighteen, ten thirty-two and eleven fifty-five.
If we give you the job, what ’ s the most important thing you except to get?
Have you got any cheaper ones?
I ’ m afraid not, George. You gotta know something, I ’ m not available any more. but I know Becky has a crush on ya.
Well, it was nice talking to you.
Our car is in the parking lot. We've booked a room for you. I will take you to the hotel soon. Let's go.
I'll finish soon.
Her birthday is on the 9th. We ’ re going to have dinner at a Mexican restaurant, and then maybe go out dancing.
But we cannot talk like elders.
Never underestimate a woman when it comes to bargaining!
Well, I certainly couldn't have done it without your help. You are the best tutor I've ever had.
What does the unit consist of?
Let me buy you a soft drink then. How about a coke?
How am I supposed to do that?
Yes, may I have some water, please?
Ye, of course.
Yeah, I'd like to go. Do you think we should have dinner first?
Well... What are you interested in?
That ’ s too bad. I hate sand storms too. It can be worse than any kind of bad weather.
Sure. Go straight ahead and you'll walk into it.
It's such a hot season, isn't it? May I suggest thinning out the top?
Are you ok? You seem a bit anxious.
Plus, you don't have to use change for the bus anymore.
Let me see. Yes, you can have Room 313. It's at the back.
That's too bad.
Oh, I am so sorry.
Isn't this the Whites?
Would you mind if I ask you whether you are married or not?
What ’ s a cabinet?
Here is a tourist guidebook. You can look it up in the book.
Good. You will feel better after you do.
they are. The reason why they didn't disqualify him until after the race is because the results from the text only came back afterwards.
Am I? Um... my face gets red when I walk too fast.
Yes, I see it listed on the printout we got off of the Internet.
Oh... I go to see my sister twice a year or so.
I'd like it to look simple, neat and relaxing.
You were playing it very late last night.
Medium rare, please.
I heard about that. It was successful.
Would you honor us with a visit?
Well, in that case, that's fine. I want a first class ticket on Thursday.
No, there's no double six at the end of the number. It's just zero, double seven, eight, seven, three, six, seven, six, double eight.
You ’ Ve had over a month to get this finalized! Why are things delayed?
Actually I ’ m buying a camera for my husband.
Yes. At the end, we should conclude the letter with greetings.
There is always a chance that someone could outbid you, but you could try one more offer if you like.
The master suite is supposed to be quite elegant. Maybe it will be a little better.
Yeah! I just started my training today and I ’ m not really sure where to begin.
She'd better drink plenty of hot water and lie in bed.
Why is there no water coming out when you turn on the faucet?
Do you have one of better quality?
Wow! It’s packed.
I apologize. This should not have to be this way.
Hi, good morning, Miss? what can I help you with?
There's a pencil in front of the lamp.
Yes, you're saving money because they're on sale today.
What ’ s your schedule like this year?
Do you use an anti-virus program to protect your computer?
Don ’ t get your hopes up.
How many hours a day can I do?
I want to know if the staff can get a vacation every year.
Yes. That ’ s why I listen to it in the evenings. I usually play it as background music while I ’ m cooking or doing other housework.
Good luck. I hope you each some fish.
But I always wanted to try it.
But the private school don't amount to better schools.
They are just been in friendly, when you are in Roman, do as the Romans do, that means you need to adapt to your enviroment.
But what are you going to do with that pig?
Do you want to get a burger?
Does it include bonuses?
I'm worried that everything will be chaotic!
Pork steamed with rice flour, jelly fish and egg soup.
Do you know of any banks near here?
I was told my girlfriend was speaking ill of me. That ’ s a real let-down.
Let me know if there's anything I can do.
I don't think that there is any easy way. The United Nations could send peacekeepers into the country. At least then the warring parties could be forced to negotiate.
Please come in.
It's Smith. Here is my driver's license.
Is there any clue?
sure thing. What are your plans for the evening?
My men began searching the area as soon as we received your call. I can't promise you that we'll recover your property but we'll certainly do our best.
My advice is to keep looking for jobs yourself. Check the job boards at the job center regularly and check the newspapers daily. If you have friends or relatives here, ask them for help, too.
Your car is ready.
Will I be able to collect a lot of money on unemployment?
Yes, I did. It was one of the conditions of the insurance police. The insurance companies need to assess the risk
What do you mean by us.
I shouted it back of course.
I just wanted to let you to know that we had decided to offer the sales position to someone else.
Not bad. OK, now take some meat and potatoes from the fridge.
Thank you! I lived there when I came to Beijing last time. It's comfortable and beautiful.
By bike, of course.You don't want to miss the beautiful scenery, do you?
I want to rent this apartment.
Mary's father is a rich man, isn't he?
I'm so sorry, Taylor. Go talk to her. I'm sure she'd be happy to see you.
Well, you'll see. With this new watch, I can go anywhere, do anything.
If I were Li Na, I would ask her if she had done that.
Whatever the reason may be, I'm glad you visited me.
Well, it depends on what you have.
In this size, we sell it for 53.95.
yes, I was precise with every word in my resume?
It seems that ' clothes make the man '.
Sorry. We're out of size L's.
I've been on here for like, 15 minutes.
Is there anything else that you want me to pick up?
Good morning, I want to send this parcel to Taiwan.
Can I mail the book if it is a large file?
Now, sir, do you have a credit card?
I'd like to remit 5000 dollars to my friend.
How are you doing, Christopher?
I'd be very glad to show you around, but I'm very busy right now.Could you come back about 3,30?
But what? You always act like this, when you face difficulties.
It's the middle of summer, it shouldn't rain today.
Just fine. I tried to answer every question raised by HR carefully. I found some answering skills are useful. These questions are different from exams.
Welcome to our restaurant, Chez Attitude!
You're right. Mother's love is the greatest love in the world.
I'm sorry, It's all my fault.
Sure, it'll be on next Monday.
Well, would you please come back fifteen minutes later? We are to visit the Tower.
It's genuine, I bet.
Wow, it sounds like a lot of work. I guess I'm too lazy to do all that.
Will you come to join us at dinner this evening? My family will be happy to see you. And father misses you very much.
That ’ s a deal.
Do you have a brand preference for anything?
To be honest, I liked all of them, except for the math teacher. Though he must be quite young, he seem like an old person. He ’ s so boring!
This is Lincoln Bank, Consumer Credit Department. How can I help you?
This one is 2300 dollars.Maybe I should buy it for my mother. What do you think?
When you were in school, what were your favorite subjects?
Richard, why didn't you come to school today?
Good job! This is going to be a great night!
That's correct. Thank you very much.
I don't know. I just know I've never been asked so many questions in my life.
What teams are playing tonight?
Dad and mom?
What else did she tell you? Did she tell you how many miles there are on it?
Sir, the computers are free to guests, but you do have to pay a nominal printing fee.
Really? Do you think English is that important?
I like Chinese food.
Forget it. It’s my pleasure. You mean a lot to me.
That this book was lit!
What did he say?
I'm from Chicago.
Yes. We will fly to Paris the day after tomorrow.
Office romance is very tricky.
I can come fix the pipe sometime tomorrow.
That is preposterous!
I ’ ll be glad to help.
Yes, it seems to have been discounted from two hundred and thirty-five thousand to two hundred and twenty-five thousand
As a rule, we don't allow any discount.
Would you like to go to the natural history museum with me?
My mother's been ill and I had to stay at home.
Where have you been, Alice, you're over an hour late.
My opponent bowled me with the very first ball. I was wondering if it's appropriate for me to play table tennis.
Why? I'd just be dead tired for the rest of the day.
Tell me which direction it should be going.
Do you prefer an aisle or a window seat?
I'm going to do some jogging on the treadmill. Then I think I'll do some work with the dumbbless.
I could get along fine without all the office politics.
I am afraid your diamond bracelet has gone, darling!
Aha, Fitness Consultant. Very good, Don't you know about the rules in this office?
Oh, they all went out! Did you make a wish?
Then just press this button.
I like it so far. But my English still needs work.
Doesn ’ t sound like that ’ s be fun, then. Do you want to come here?
Ok, good luck, Jessica. By the way, if you ever need a letter of recommendation, I would be happy to write one for you.
Milk? I thought you didn't like milk.
can you squeeze me in sometime today?
Give me a six-piece chicken nuggets, a large fry and a large Coke.
... Sorry, her line is busy at the moment. Can I take a message?
Yes, that's true, but my wife found a new apartment on the Internet the other day and she wants to move right away.
May I help you find something, or are you just looking?
That of the old man.
Right. Can I compensate for the damage with the travel accident insurance?
Happy Birthday, this is for you, Brian.
I said, This is Pauline's mother. Please don ’ t telephone my daughter again!
Thank you for helping me.
I hate that, either. Did you tell him your feelings?
Thank you. I'd like Chinese tea very much!
Here you are. Is everything OK?
Yes, I'm glad I have come.
Click on that.
Ok. Mr. Lee, you ’ re all set. Your flight leaves from gate 10. Boarding begins at 10:30
Good?! For them but not to me.
Do not be a couch potato. You should do more exercise.
Good morning, Loans.
I'm glad to hear that. We are trying to give you a favourable one.
You've got a beautiful singing voice!
Hello, Kevin. I hate to do this, but I have to cancel our appointment.
Oh, that's great.
It takes about half an hour to get there.
Oh, yeah, and I did promise to see it with you if we went to that movie last week.But you liked that movie, didn't you?
You are so smart. Your efforts in the success of the plan were outstanding.
No, I was way too busy studying all the time. How about you?
That looks like an interesting book.
Huh? What were you talking about, then?
What time will the library be closing?
Mmmm..., it's hard to say. I like golf a lot-but I guess like skating better.
Please give him my regards. Poor Mien! He didn't want to leave this house.
If you prefer wooden cases, we will provide them. But cardboard boxes are light, less expensive, and more convenient to handle in the course of packing and unpacking.
Do you believe that one religion is better than another?
It was that loud, and it was pretty late, and check with Mary if you don't believe me.
It's about thirty minutes long.
2 towels and l Turkish towel, please?
That's because it's full.
Because whoever let the cat out of the bag was breaking client confidentiality.
They got a divorce at last.
When did you arrive here?
Are there any people who speak English?
All right, Mr. Smith. I will arrange a table for 5 at 12:00 for you.
Fractions. What ’ s a quarter and an eighth? That ’ s three-eights. Easy. The next question is “ what are prime numbers? ”.
Yeah-all from Italy. See all the saints? They're important to Roman Catholics.
Okay-bye! Have a nice Christmas.
Come on! In the two hours we've been here, you haven't sung even one song!
I'm on a diet. So I have to avoid food containing too much fat. Do you have vegetarian dishes?
OK, please don't worry about it. You should set your mind at rest.
She's a real turn-on our rights.
would you want to buy an old cottage or build a new one yourself?
No, not for a few months.
Too long, and you do not have much time.
Did you hear who won the English speech contest?
That ’ s great. We can go boating on the lake in the afternoon.
1,000 Yuan? That's great! So...
You do realize that you ran a red light, don't you?
Christy is working as a waitress at a restaurant in Paris. She ’ s married to a French photographer.
Sure. Once you get the hang of it, It’s a piece of cake! It’s nothing to worry about.
That's done. Do you need to see any credentials?
Are you sure? We could go Dutch.
Prepare the list, Mother. I can go shopping. I can go to the small stores.Everyone knows me there.
It's rather cold, isn't it?
Just a few cookies.
I have a little gut I have been trying to get rid of.
Here's the picture of my family.
Will you have it later?
It's excellent.
Oh, right. What a load off my mind. I really don ’ t like her.
Yes, it keeps me going. Sometimes I think I'm addicted.
Hello there, welcome to Wine World. Let me know if I can help you out at all.
Just water would be fine.
What time's your flight?
Well, don't get bend on a ship about it.
What time do you usually go to bed?
Yes, it sure is. I had to run here from work! I need to rush as I'm on my lunch break.
Ok - when you leave the Underground, cross the road and you should see Horntown Street. Was up that street to the crossroads. As you was you should see a fast food place on your right.
Many congratulations on your winning the game.
Would you like an appetizer?
Are you kidding me? Even the girls know Peckham. Whatever, I have a picture of him here.
Gee! You are really strong-willed.
Mmmm, no. How about you?
Go straight then turn right, and you will see a big bus station there.
Could we have the bill, please?
I haven ’ t seen you in a while. How have you been?
Sounds like a good idea. And I think this can leave deep impression to HR. How can we write a suitable letter?
How do these storms affect the people who live in these areas?
No, sir. I'm sorry you can't.
No, I don't like action movies because I'm cultured!
Hello Wang. I'm Dou. Pleased to meet you.
I need a room for a few days.
What store are you going to?
Really? This is a nice office, but it's quite small.
Bad news, I'm afraid. Our supplier has gone bust. The parts you ordered have arrived at the docks but the handling agent won't release them until someone pays the invoice. We also need to arrange transport to the factory.
Have you talked to him?
The basic salary for this position in our company would be 4800 Yuan to start with increases giving according to your performance.
I'm not sure. I have to check my schedule. Where are you going?
I'll tell you what, I'll go over the number again with our financial team and see what I can do. I can't give you any guarantees. But we can try.
Oh! Thank you.
Are you good at cooking?
Uh, to begin with, please take a look at the syllabus in front of you. As you all should know by now, this class meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 3:15 to 4:50.
It’s huge.
What a beautiful view we have here.
What's the score?
How about playing tennis with me?
Fine. Where are the other guys?
That's nice. Do you know you can get one at the wholesale market near the zoo for a much lower price?
I agree. They're very lovely, especially Huanhuan
Why are you interested in this occupation?
You certainly do like teasing me, Mary. Well I'm in love with someone. The question is, how do I get his attention?
Is this the sign? What does it say?
Do we have any choices?
That will be gorgeous!
What are you taking my blood for?
Good. And your benefits will begin immediately.
Sure. I think It’s a fantastic place to go.
OK! I've noted it down. And any others?
Pretty! Say beautiful rather. Can you imagine any thing nearer perfect beauty than she altogether-face and figure?
Say, how about a walk along the river?
I was wondering if you could help me to get a library card.
You should hand it in before next Sunday.
Politicians from both sides sound increasingly belligerent. Neither side wants to compromise.
Have you ever tried it? Or are you just going to believe the sales lady?
Thank you very much, Mr Green.
I'm probably going to buy something too.
Forget it! We seemingly need to gather money little by little.
Great! We will send you all the details later. Looking forward to meeting with you!
Ok. Here are the ones, turtleneck pullover, crewneck pullover, V-neck pullover and cowl-neck pullover.
Linda, thank you for this wonderful Christmas dinner. I really enjoyed it.
Thank you very much. I ’ ll see you the day after tomorrow.
Oh look! Here it comes now!
I went to school today. Did you go to school?
Excuse me, how do I get to Wall Street?
Besides, in the interview, it is best that you make corresponding adjustments to apply your prepared contents flexibly.
I wasn't really paying attention. I think we missed our stop.
Yes, can you tell me what's my responsibility in this position?
Yes, could you cash these travaler's check for me, please?
I swear I never drink again. Just give me another chance, please.
Okay, I'll let you sleep for a little while longer.
I heard it has been finally settled under the rose.
I see. I guess you can tell I don ’ t travel much.
Is it a used one?
Take it easy. I have to cut my losses.
Ok, I'll show you how the packing is like. We have a showroom on the ground floor. Let's go downstairs and have a look.
What kind of potatoes would like to go with that, mushed, boiled, or baked?
1:00 a m.
He's a very creative painter. His paintings sell well.
About two years, but it seems as if I got here yesterday.
It's too expensive to get it fixed.
Hello, Marsha. I'm great and you?
It's not only about getting fat or not, it's about being healthy. You could really have some health problems later on.
What? How did that happen?
Well, you might pinch your eyelid! Or lose an eyeball!
Well, nothing special, reading, watching TV, walking, and so on.
I ’ Ve only find a few openings in my field.
Sorry, Mr. Smith agenda is full today.
I'm losing you, sir. What's the problem?
Yes, I'd like to make an appointment to see the doctor. My name is Randy Horn.
I think Americans would rather laugh than cry or be scared in their free time.
I have a concussion, but I will be OK.
Mangoes? What are mangoes?
the maximum is $ 1000.
Good morning. This is Apple Corporation. May I speak to Ballam?
But I don't know how to play basketball.
Ted.room 2012.
I'm highkey obsessed with this the concert.
And do you have friends there?
What's wrong with them?
Boarding time is 10:20 am.
Look at this fair. This is my first chance to be involved in the fair. It is so gorgeous and amazing!
It’s so hot at lunchtime ; I ’ d rather run in the morning.
I asked if you come here often.
Mmm... does it zip closed?
Yes, I will. I should learn more from you. After all I am green hand on it.
Do we have enough time?
Oh, come on, as long as it looks good on her.
The Yellow Rock National Park.
Do you need a furnished or unfurnished apartment?
Can you skillfully operate the computer?
do you think it will work?
sounds good, and I don't have to queue up at the cashier.
Oh, you needn't do that.
I prefer the tragedy. It is moving and makes me ponder about my life.
Ok. I'll check the heater. Dry yourself with the towel first.
I don't understand how I could've failed it.
yes. I would be directly responsible for all of the sales representatives in my department. I assume there'd be more meetings, paperwork, and other responsibilities, too.
A seminar of technical specialists including the surveyors from both sides will be held to clarify which result is correct.
Make it two.
It seems that people share the same basic sense of etiquette regardless of their background. Apart from the different tools used for eating we seem to follow the same principles. We do not let inappropriate manners spoil other people ’ s appetite.Westerners like to say, “ bon appetite ” before meals which is one way to suggest “ mind your table manners. ” Is there such an expression in Chinese?
That's right. Thank you.
Yes. The well-known Yellowstone Waterfall is formed when the Yellowstone Lake falls down into the Yellowstone Canyon.
So cool, if we do business through other ways, it will cost a lot of time.
Sir, you don't have to pay right now.Just sign here and we will charge it to your account.
Would you like to go now or later?
Get me a medium Pepsi.
Mark, can you dress the twins for me while I take a shower?
I major in Japanese.
Oh, look at those earrings, Maria. They're perfect for you.
That's the new teacher.
Is there anything in particular you want?
Then go climbing with me, Daddy. Mountain climbing can build your muscles like Popeyes.
You look quite mature beside your cousin who is eighteen.
Good for you!
I was laughing through the whole movie.
Well, the costumes and the set are marvellous, but the acting is a bit stiff. What do you think?
They give me no help at all.
We are such weirdos right?
it's much better than my old one. My new boss is great.
I don't like caps at all.
How many bids had been placed before you?
Thank you.That ' s the result of exercise.
How long have you been married?
Hey, Pat! Yeah, I haven ’ t seen you in ages! How is going?
Sure. He ’ ll get the bag, I think.
Please go over there to weigh them.
Which hammer. This one?
Oh, you look kind of pale. What's the matter?
According to some studies it may cause cancer.
It’s a lot harder than I imagined. There are many things that you have to to arrange. I booked a time and date with the funeral home, but I still have a lot of things to do.
But you have so many friends! How could you be lonely?
I can't stand American Idol! I think it's really over-rated.
Really? Where did you hear that?
I listen to various types of music.
I got it. Mary Lin.
I guess so. I'm bit of a couch potato. How about you?
No, it seems too old-fashioned to my fiancee.
Plaza Hotel, good morning. Leo speaking.
I know that's what I must do.
What other expenses will we have?
Let me hold the door for you, miss.
Mom, I finished.
Yeah. You said it.
Of course yes.
Thank you. I have roses, tulips, and daffodils. Do you like the rockery with the smaller flowers?
Some of us are going to start a soccer team. Would you like to join us?
That's true. For various reasons, it takes more to hold a fierce game for Winter Olympics than it does for Summer Olympics. You know, the low temperature may cause many problems.
C'mon. I get nervous when I talk to girls.
Are you sure you're all right? You look a bit worried today. Is anything wrong?
Someone just robbed me.
Well, what do you think about the development in computers?
$ 10 a kilo.
What qualifications have you got?
Peter, listen to the lyrics of this song.
Be sure to blow out all the candles in one puff.
How nice of him! I'll be delighted to go. But what time would be convenient?
The mag says she's 165 centimeters tall and 38 kilos. If only we could be that thin then...
Oh, I see. Thank you.
Yes, of course. This is really a nice party with wonderful people and lovely wines.
Really? I have heard there are many famous national park in the US, which one exactly?
Why they hold a flour war?
To conserve electricity, the stations operate only from 7a. m. till 10.
Yes, sir. I ’ ll get them for you right away. Would you please sign this bill first? Thank you, sir.
Yes, of course. I need your student ID please.
How about your psychological resilience?
How much for these autographed Elvis records?
I think the gears have seized up
I don't think this is fresh.
Yeah.He never stops asking questions.
Mmm. Maybe another time.
I like summer as long as it's bright like this.
It's really of nothing.
There really are not many side effects. You need to drink a lot of water when you take this pill.
Appear confident and show the interviewers that you ’ re competent. Don ’ t exaggerate things or you'll give the impression that you ’ re talking big.
Really? This is a beautiful town.
Yeah, especially since she got a promotion recently.
Oh, yes, and admission tickets for places of interest as well.
If I let you go back to sleep, I know that you won't get up in five minutes.
I will. I want to write the first draft tonight.So I could bring it tomorrow morning.
Let me weigh them for you. 1.5 $.
I have to go to work.
My parents live by themselves now. When they get older, they ’ ll probably go to a retirement home. Do you just have one brother?
Well. Maybe I'll go alone then. I really don't want to miss it.
One of my relatives told me that your company needs someone who can speak English. That's just the job that I have been looking for
Really? I'm interested in it.
I don't know what time it is.
John, did you have a dream when you was a little boy?
Yes, the lift is just around the corner.You can go up first, and your luggage will be brought up straight away.
That's great! I think they do you a lot of good. Where do you swim?
Do you know what the BBS is?
I love the balcony. We can sit outside and enjoy the sun in summer. We are on the 12th floor, so there ’ s very nice view from the balcony.
I don ’ t know, I just saw the dress and thought about how pretty it looks and how much I wanted it. I guess I was too impulsive.
The company introduction, our mission, vision, various policies, insurances, pension plan, company ID, batch, telephone, e-mail set-up and training.
Don ’ t do it! If you get caught making false statements, you can have your claim closed.
Please, go right ahead.
Can you speak French?
Okay, first I'm going to need you to fill out the paperwork.
Oh. I just wanted you to shut up. You were off-key anyway. Let me see that!
Just tell him I'll call him when I get back from Australia. That's it.
I'm very delighted too. I'm sure that we'll have a wider range of cooperation. So, let's drink to the signing of our contract.
Whatever you choose, make sure they are neat and clean.
It seems that I've been given two classes scheduled at the same time.
O. K. Great. Just sign and date it here?
So you think it's OK for people who are dieting to eat chocolate, don't you?
The boss had an informal discussion with me this morning, I feel really down.
Yes, I am. But I'm not sure if I'm eligible.
No problem. What do you want me to get?
Tom, promise me to keep this a secret, will you?
I ’ m sure. Okay, now let ’ s move on to your work experience, shall we?
Tell me something about your Valentine's Day.
What ’ s wrong with that?
As an English teacher, I tried to make the lessons as fun as possible. I tried to have a good time with my classes. The students often enjoyed it.And if the students enjoyed it, they learned more. So it was a good experience.
Yes, I understand how to do this.
Nobody could compete with him.
Well.It doesn't go with your skirt. I think the color itself is fine though.
Now everything is in order. Mr. Bradley, your room number is 6020. It is on the sixth floor and the daily rate is 90 dollars per night. Here is your key card with all the information on your booking, the hotel services and the hotel rules and regulations on it. Please make sure that you have it with you all the time. You need to show it when you sign in for your meals and drinks in the restaurants and the bars. You also need to show it when you collect your key from the information desk.
No more than three.
Yes. I booked a single room in your hotel for this Friday. But I ’ m sorry to say that I have to cancel it. My wife is very sick now. I don ’ t think she ’ ll be able to travel by this Friday.
That's not enough. You have many other things to prepare.
When did you last see her?
What happened next?
Here is 200 yuan.
What in the world is that smell?
It's rice wine, a kind of still wine, somewhat like Japanese Sake. Showing is a city in China.
That's fantastic. I think I like this one.
Yes, I can write that on my calendar.
We certainly do. I can give you some details about a loan called Personal Loan for Studying Abroad. We offer this to anyone who will study outside this country.
( Later.. ) Everything looks tempting. What do you want to have?
No, I'm not feeling myself. I just want to check my emails, visit my favorite websites and chat with my friends.
It’s a pleasure to show our factory to our customers. What ’ s your general impression, may I ask?
Well... l like the traditional flavors like rum raisin, butter pecan. maple walnut, strawberry, chocolate and vanilla. But now there are some new flavors from Asia like green tea and durian.
You can find plenty of recording on the internet too. You can listen to samples and then buy them very cheaply if you like them.
Great! Fill me in.
OK, it won't happen again.
Mary said she couldn't put up with Tom, for he fell in love with another woman.
Can I have my money back on this skirt?
Oh, I'm so lucky. I want to apply for it.
Go down this road and then turn left.
Terrible. How about people's lives?
OK. By the way, where is the restaurant?
It's really only a small load.
Yes. Moreover, since the street is heavy with traffic this time of day. I'm not sure we can make it. By the way, are you pressed for the time?
Yes. And we're proud of you, Loans.
Yes, that is our Personal Wealth Management Service.
Well, we can give you this lovely shaving kit and call you the minute your luggage arrives here. Just leave us a contact number.
How many people are you together?
Good. Go on, please.
You mean you want to run the meetings?
Let ’ s have a look. Mmmm. This doesn ’ t look too good. I think we may have to pull out your wisdom tooth. It’s pressing against your molars and that ’ s one of the reasons you are experiencing so much pain.
Sure. I'll give you mine too. Then we can call if we have to cancel for some reason.
I'm sorry ; he's out at the moment.
So Jen, what did you think of William? Did you guys have a nice time on your first date?
Pilgrimages are common in many faiths.
Well, the website handles a point system where if the seller does something wrong, people comment negatively and then you know that he or she may not be trustworthy.
I'd forgotten that my brother had used my phone earlier this month to call his girlfriend. He forgot to mention that she happened to be in New York at the time 3000 miles away.
Your ring is very beautiful.
Ok! Thanks for calling.
I am not picky on food. Just bring me the day menu.
Yes, they are. That ’ s very important to us. We like to live in a home with plenty of natural light. Each room has large windows.
I give it away. Here, this one is for you.
Anything I can do for you?
Well, that's really a big city. How long do your vacations last?
May I ask what the name is the girl?
All right. In my first teaching position I received the ' Excellent Teaching ' award the past two years in succession.
Hey! That “ stuff ” is my grandma's cooking, and it's good!
that sounds pretty easy. Do rabbits make your house smell?
You will make it if you persist in it.
No, you know I can't bear eating less.
From the 25th to the 28tri of September.
Hello, Mary. How are you?
Yes, I would love to see the apartment.
You did? that is great!
Well, apparently I ’ Ve run up quite a bill. I was under the impression that the Junior Executive Holiday Package only cost 250 dollars per night. I ’ Ve just been informed that It’s actually 500 do
You'll have to pay $ 25 every time you overdraft.
I don't think so. I think it's about your attitude towards learning. One should be open to new ideas, decisions, skills or behaviors.
Yes, sir. We have the all-inclusive luxury cruise. Maybe you would like to look at the itinerary.
What's new?
Sorry. I was too worried.
Certainly! Would you like my American Express card?
Yes, I received the scholarship 3 times on end.
I'm having some trouble. How do you use this printer?
He's on a weeklong meditation retreat and won't be back until this weekend.
I'm sorry I can't, because I haven't finished my thesis.
Well, give me the Walkman. I'll listen to the music then.
I see your reservation on my computer. Let me just cancel it, and you'll be all set!
Where are you going to stay?
Is there any water damage?
It's not just for your drinking. But you are lacking sense of responsibility.
What do they do?
The usual, you know, something about your background and experience and anything personal that you feel is pertinent.
All the papers have been drawn up, but I will need to see your picture ID so we can notarize these papers.
Do you watch a lot of TV?
Is it expensive?
Are you have a hand in locking into the case?
You are an outgoing person, quite easy to talk with.
This is the menu. Are you ready to order now?
Yes, we do.
How was your test?
I don ’ t feel sick,... let me check... Nope! No fever, I ’ m fine.
Look. I really didn't mean to, and next time I see Martha, I'll really tell her that you and Sara are really just friends.
a plant? That's creative. I'm sure ever time she waters it she'll think of you. But there is a problem. Do you think it'll be able to go through the customs?
Why's the plane shaking?
We usually tell each other where we are with various clients and potential clients. The boss assigns extra duties to people who she thinks can best deal with them. It’s also a chance to put forward suggestions and ideas. Be sure to speak up if you have any.
Well, it isn't at this office. It's over at the Dayton Street office.Have you been there before?
Where do you live now?
You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. You have the right to have an attorney present during questioning. If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed for you. Do you understand?
Fine, I know a good hotpot place in the downtown area, food there is pretty spicy too. Shall we try that one?
Another one? I don't want another one. Give me something simple. You've got steak, right?
I am interested in your hardware. I've seen the exhibits and studied your catalogues. I think some of the items will find a ready market in France. Here is a list of requirements.
They ’ ll never take me alive!
OK, I see. As far as you think, how many buses should we get for them?
Yes, I have. In fact, I had worked for a foreign trade company for nearly two years, where I established business ties with several firms.
I asked the owners, and they said that everything was great with the house.
Do you feel like dancing?
How nice these frames are!
What if there is no chance? I mean what if you don't have a partner, what will you do?
What if I need a roommate?
We have this beautiful platinum pendant, or you could also get her a locket. You could also get her a timepiece — It’s both glamorous yet functional.If you tell me a little more about your girlfriend, maybe I can help you find something for her.
I know. No matter what the result will be, I have learned a lot from our conversation.
An option we can offer is two separate shipments.We will house the inventory until you are ready for us to ship it to you.
Could I see your driver's license?
Yes, your number is out of service.
Why are you in such a hurry?
You have to fill in this form with your name, address, ID card number, deposit term and the amount you want to deposit.
That will be fourteen dollars in all.
Not long. They'll be ready in a few minutes.
That's it. She likes dogs so much now, and I begin to love dogs.
Hello, Mr Peng, how nice to hear from you again. What can I do for you today?
I ’ d like to apply for a secretarial position.
You're welcome. I hope all of you will have a good time here.
Ange, can your dog do any tricks yet?
I can't, I have to go to the gym.
So you don't have much related work experience.
Yes, my birth date is September 22, 1977.
That's very good. But I have little knowledge about the packing of your pliers. I just want to know the details about that.
ok. I'll make the arrangements. It will be great.
You know my father. If I fail, he'll kill me. I have to do well.
I am not sure, which one is better?
We offer full tuition reimbursement for job related classes.
Yes, I did. He only takes side with him. He seldom asks what Dick is doing.
The university computer system saves extra places, in class 287 for comp lit students. I can give you a special code.When you register by phone, you can use the code to get into the class.
John, I was looking through some magazines for ideas about where we might go on vacation this year.
Do you want a cigarette?
So which form of transport do you prefer to use?
Should we use the stairs?
Thanks for helping her, doctor.
I spent the morning at the cemetery. I put flowers on the graves of my old war buddies.
Hello, Chris. How can I help you?
The Workers'Stadium.
So decode this for me, Madame Psycho.
There will be a parents ' meeting in our class this Saturday and I am worried about it.
He never does, and in fact, he seldom communicates with him.
Do you know that Mary ’ s marriage is on the rocks?
What's he like?
Yes, I remembered to bring my ticket with me today.
Do you carry black ink?
Can I make an international call from that pay phone?
Yes, we have a seat available on that flight on the thirteenth.
All right, then. Why don ’ t we say next Tuesday at 11:30 a. m.?
Fine, but it cannot happen again if you want an “ A ” in the class.
Yes. Is that necessary?
Do you like it better here or at PCC?
It is a very fuel efficient vehicle giving you about 34 miles in the city and 40 on the highway.
How frustrating! The bus is still not coming.
Walk down till you see the first lights. It's cross the street.
They are muslims on a pilgrimage to mecca. Muslims call this pilgrimage haj.
No problem, I love it.Thank you for granting me the interview.
Now far. About 150 meters perhaps.
What are the movies that are playing?
But I heard that she had a three-year-old girl.
What ’ s that? It gets the name from the festival itself. That ’ s really funny!
I ’ m sorry, I wasn ’ t supposed to meet you. I wasn ’ t supposed to fall in love with you, but you have to believe me when I tell you that what I feel for you is real.
Good to see you. Come on in.
I ’ m not in the mood.
We're coming.
How are you making out these days?
What do you usually do with them?
I ’ m afraid not. He will be not free until 11:30.
That sounds fine, thanks for that. Let's go ahead!
I'm trying to turn it on, but it won't work.
I want to ask you a couple questions.
We're working on different steps in different areas.For example, our Colbert line is thriving in American markets, we've already reached the loyalty stage.In Asia, however, it's a different story.Most people haven't even heard of Colbert, so we're working on awareness through a lot of product launches and related activities.
I use it for several things-surfing the net, word processing and creating presentations. I don ’ t play many games on my computer, but I do a lot of work with photographs. Using a computer program, you
Waiter, the dish is cold to eat. Could you please heat it up for me?
I see. But Jane. He ’ s not worth your sorrow and you should restart your new life.
Here is your receipt. Thank you.
We have a great variety of Chinese antiques. Besides, we have landscape painting, figure painting and flower-and-bird painting.
Can you tell me how long your internet has been messing up?
I've come to hear about your offer.
I've been there! It really is an amazing work of architecture and art. The entire complex is made of white marble and in the interior of the tomb, the walls are covered with gems and emeralds!
Let me see... the train to New York City... here it is... daily except Sunday at 10 thirty, 12 twenty and 15 ten.
No, I couldn't fall asleep last night.
Yes, I have them with me. Do you want to look at them?
Yes, I do. Thank you.
No one else has made an offer, so you could make another offer if you want to do so.
This is the good life! We have it good don ’ t you think?
But what will you do if the goods we receive are not standard?
I would like to sign up for some classes.
Oh. Well, it can't be helped.
Yes, the back door is about four or five steps higher than the ground.
I live in room 1106 of the Friendship Hotel.
Do you surf online regularly, Joe?
It bothers me off and on, but It’s gotten much worse these past few weeks.
I've heard about it, but I don't really know about it.
Do you take vitamin pills regularly?
Do you think that you are introverted or extroverted?
I never trust those stupid doctors.
Fortunately, yes. You're blushing!
In the summer it gets very hot.the temperature is often between 37 and 40 centigrade.when it is hot we often get rains.the winters are drier.
Sure, I would like a Coke.
You should. I know you'll like it.
I love to try it, but the instrument is expensive and it was still need to take a lot of practice.
That's the one. He also was famous for never giving up on his goals.
Not at all.You can find most of them in supermarkets.The ingredients are usually the same as in Western food.The way that the food is prepared is the big difference, not the ingredients.
If it were up to Stanley, we'd have the wedding in the ETV! He loves to sing.
Let me see. Oh, No. 11.
Thank you SO much.
Then you'll have to take a bus and get off at the Central Railway Station.
Do you believe in UFO's?
Jump in, I'll give you a ride.
Hi Melissa, are you going home this weekend?
hey, Lily, what are you doing?
Yes, but they are used for other things, too.Do you remember when we went to buy a ticket for the flight to Paris.
Good morning Mr Smith. My name is Susan and I am a reporter for the Evening Star.
Hi, I'm Susan Jackson.
What else, Ma'am?
What ’ s your present ( permanent ) address?
What park? You found a doll in a park? Gross!
He ’ s the superintendent of this building.
Just get online and send your application through email to the employer.
It’s a typical of them to do so.
We import a little oil from Venezuela, but we are fairly self-sufficient. We import some iron and a lot of aluminium from neighbouring countries.
Can you show me which charges you ’ re referring to?
Please go to the tables over there for cold dishes and vegetables. The hot dishes are on the other side.
That's right.But I don't think there are better ways.
Our team was victorious.
The way it is now, the staff from all four branches get together once a week.We meet for one hour. But I think a lot of time is wasted in transportation.
How do you work with a team?
Of course! It's the sort of thing a hospital emergency ward is for. Will we have to wait much longer?
It’s my job. What can I help you with?
Well, let me see. What price range do you have in mind?
In summer I go hiking, and in winter I ski.
Oh, I love apple pie too.
You do, I'm afraid. There are 3 ways to do this. You can choose, mortgage, pledge or guarantee mode.
Five hundred dollars altogether.
have you ever been invited to a Chinese feast?
I can not stop coughing, and I can not stop sneezing. I vomited blood last night. Sorry, I am coughing again.
I had no idea that bus went to the station.
Of course I do.
In 3 months or so.
Watch out! You'll hit that car if you're not careful.
Then what price would be fair to you?
Thanks very much. Well, I'll be able to give you a visa for one year, a student visa, that is.
What did she say?
Much better today.
Well, Yes. There are something wrong actually. Perhaps you can give me some advice.
Would you mind showing me your passport?
I think that these kinds haven ’ t learnt to be afraid yet. She started diving from a lower height, but she soon wanted to go higher.
Did you watch the finale last night? My favorite singer won!
So does it mean we're arriving on the same day?
have you ever thought about your ideal home?
Yes, does the renting include utilities?
Uh, the movie of Tom Hanks. I know why it can't play. This is a DVD disk.
OK. Please step in. I know where it is.
There is one class on Tuesday and Thursday from 2 to 4.
Spring is a lively season.
Which way is the dining car?
That's great. Can I book the room?
have you ever gone abroad before?
OK. Please do so if it is not troublesome.
I'm looking forward to going to America.
Be careful of what you say, or you ’ ll have to eat humble pie.
They are beautiful. You did a good job.
Excuse me, I ’ m sorry to trouble you. My name is Susan Ransom, and I have placed several orders with you company.
Now there we are in agreement!
We would prefer 7
I ’ m going to put it on this table, Sam.
Great, we don't expect any big problems to happen.
Do you know what you want to get?
You say he was around average height.
What's the room rate? It is a little expensive for me, do you have any other rooms?
Have you heard about our special promotion this month? If you purchase at least 200 yuan in any loreal products, you will receive this black hand bag with a sample of blusher, mascara and two shades of eye shadow.
It's all agreed, here's a letter to prove it.
Wonderful. How much is the cost altogether?
How long will it be till they get here?
Yes, I ’ d like to reserve a room.
Oh, maybe not. It's just your guess. Do not give currency to idle gossip.
Welcome to Lincoln Bank. What can we do for you?
Why would anyone vote for McCain?
And press ' enter ' to confirm, here. Now you need to decide which service you need.
Hello. This is the Stewart Resident.
No, I haven't got one by now. I will go to the interview of yours.
What will you do on Teachers ' Day?
you are dressed to kill. You look gorgeous, Alexander.
But I think it wasn't too bad.
Paying club members get around 300 dollars a year in restaurant vouchers.The vouchers can be used in the restaurant or the lounge.But we don't offer vouchers to employees.
Yes, Sir. That's correct.
Yeah. Last semester.
Hi. Fill it up please. Premium.
Honey, just turn down the stove.
You'll be out to see me next year, as you promised?
Why, of course. Let's see... White... Pale yellow. Here you are, sir.
Wrong number? Are you sure? I called yesterday and she was there.
Thanks, Professor. See you later!
Well. Didn ’ t you go around to the Smith after school? You might have left it there.
I know. I'm a little nervous, but it's pretty exciting.
Yes, I've been wanting it short for a while now.
I have all of that with me. I've also banked here for a number of years.
And that ’ s for each book that is late.
I see, so it's similar to global warming?
You know, red yolk is proved unnatural. It's artificial, and may lead to cancer.
I don ’ t really have one but I support Huston.
Well, it all looks so good. How about ordering the steamed prawns?
Ha! Ha! If you don ’ t make an effort now, later on it ’ ll be a lot tougher for you.
But I am still worry about them. I ’ m afraid...
I feel much better now.
And all their movements are so elegant. It seems like dancing in the water.
Then fans don't see you much in public places.
Um, okay. Well, I just want a trim. Nothing too fancy.
Sure, but it's so complicated. They asked for my credit card authorization number.
Would you tell her Tom Gray called?
Hey, I offered last year...
I drink milk every day. It's really good for building strong bones and teeth. I drink tea quite often, for it's protective against kidney cancer.
No, the galaxies sit more or less passively in the space around them. But not too much. As the space between galaxies expands, it carries the galaxies further apart - like raisins in an expanding dough.
Yes, the service hasn't been the best. Is that our waitress over there?
ok, got it. I ’ ll call you sometime next week.
Excuse me. Have you got the time?
I agree. Next, we have to decide on food. We have a choice of Chinese or Continental Cuisine. Which one should we have?
What commission terms can you offer?
Buses are more cramps and you can't walk around.
No, I ’ m afraid not, Mary. May I take a message for her?
Please don't tell me you bought it.
one person? How about your girlfriend?
I have no idea. Maybe she had a fight with her husband.
Yes, I know. And next time I must make good preparations.
When I was in LA, I met the WebTracker sales rep.
Thank you. That's very kind of you.
Lisa, I ’ Ve been thinking of something.
bring your own beverage. We can provide food, but people have to bring their own drinks.
When can you come in?
Well, the stock market just took a huge plunge and we ’ Ve lost a lot of money!
Yes, it's 110,000 RIB. So, with the down payment done, I will need to borrow 70,000 RIB.
You look so lovely.
They are especially harmful to teenagers.
That's all right
Honey, cheer up.
My advantage is that I have strong sense of responsibility. But I lack patience.
Okay, Mark, What ’ s up?
How about the end of this month?
Voting isn ’ t difficult.
Could you work for us in another state, if need be?
what are you going to try first?
It's a suitcase. But I've forgot the exact color. Maybe it is red or something.
You can bet on that.
Really? I ’ m surprised.
This one will suit me best.What do you think?
Do I need to buy them ripe, or will they ripen at home?
i like my professors and the classes, but it's a lot of work.
If you open up a card, you can save 10 % on all your purchases today.
Mom, have we got any cookies?
No, we have an easy-payment plan. One-third down, and the balance in six months.
I started driving the bus a few months ago.
Oh, they look just like live cranes.
And the host announced that he won it all!
Rich! I ’ m glad I caught you. Mr. Carlton ’ s just come over here from the main office.
We are going to need a loan. I'm not sure what loan is suitable for us, though.
Is the training center helpful?
I see. Where can I get the food?
Thank you so much, I would really appreciate that.
You voted for him, right?
Yes, of course, here you are. The prices are subject to our confirmation.
yes, I'm going to take a holiday tomorrow.
I'm totally vibing with this the game.
Just a moment, sir. Let me check the reservation list. Sorry, I'm afraid we're fully booked tonight. Would you like to make a reservation some other time?
OK, then. I'll be there in a minute.
What kind of food do you like?
No, I had no interest in the activities in college and I spent most of my spare time reading in the library.
Thank you. I don't think there should be any problems, but just to be sure...
It seems like a good idea but I am not really sure.
Is there anyone else you can talk to about it at you company?
I'm sorry, Steven.
That sounds really good.
I tried it for a half-hour.It was interesting, but... well... I couldn't really do it.
Well, I was walking down Nan Jing Dong Lu ( Nan-Jing E. Rd. ) during my lunch break thinking about this boy-I have no idea why I was thinking about him.
Excuse me, is this the baggage claim area from KL17?
Where do we get off the bus?
Nobody told you what happened?
I'm from China. What about you?
Alright. I understand. Right now you just want estimates.
No. what's it like?
Yes. A dish of cornmeal weight.
I was planning to go to Beijing first and then go to northwest China! Looks like I'm in trouble.
We do think so.
Ben cancelled his trip.
I do. I ’ m a big fan of using new technology, but I don ’ t want to sit in front of a computer screen all day. I think people need to get out and interact with other people.
Certainly, Madam. It's a stir fried dish of minced pork with glass noodles.
No, you don ’ t. My name is Liu Lili. I got the information from the TV that your department wants to hire a clerk, who will work under you. I would like to apply for the job.
Well, that's for all. Excellent!
Certainly I can, I'll buy some from butchers ' and cook for you next sunday.
A deposit? Isn't my luggage a deposit?
OK, sir. How many are coming?
I loved it, too. To tell you the truth, I even dropped tears.
sounds interesting. Where did you get the idea?
This is just what I've been looking for. Sign me up right away, please.
I'll bet you were hungry!
Great! Then I suppose I'm looking forward to my first promotion, too.
Mmm... No that ’ s okay, really. I think that ’ s all for today.
Sure. His cell phone is 09112223 33. And his e-mail is lower case t, smith--that's one word, at, c, c, w, dot, com, dot, t, w.
Your muscular shoulders and chest impress me so.
Well, I'd like some legal advice. Jane and I are thinking of incorporating. So Want to find out what sort of legal procedure one follows in forming a corporation.
It is our pleasure. It has been a great pleasure to work with you.
He's a painter. He's working in Argentina this month. He has an exhibition there.
Your starting salary is 3, 000 yuan a month, but if you work well we will put you on our regular staff after six months time and your salary will be raised to 5,000 yuan a month.
What crime did I commit?
Hello, is everything alright? Can I help?
Hi, Betty! Where's your boyfriend?
That ’ s alright.
He's really cute. His bowl even has his name on it.
I have to be at court?
How nice of him. I'll be delighted to go. But what time would be convenient?
Sure. What I mean is that either side could cancel the training contract after the six months as long as it's in writing.
It will be a rock and roll band probably. He ’ s a very good guitarist.
You're meal also include soup and salad.
Marry ; Mr. Johnson wants these documents to be copied.
That's very kind of you. Thanks a lot.
So... disco is what the music is called and a disco is a place where people go to dance to it.And breakdancing is a different sort of thing altogether.
Maybe we all should learn something from him.
Oh, me too! All the family getting together...
I'll need them for the conference on Monday afternoon.Do you think it can be done by then?
Which? Zina? What time is it?
We will definitely be getting another.
Because we don ’ t grow it much in my country. We import a lot from other countries.
It’s over there, behind the teapot. Can't you see it?
That ’ s a good way to think about it.
I wonder if no tip would be appropriate in light of the service.
Sure. It's one of the biggest classical music events. Have you ever been to the live show?
What? Did you say you never washed clothes before?
Maybe it is. But It’s out of fashion.
Sure, Emily. We haven't done that in a while.
I don't know. Since yesterday morning, the water pressure has dropped to a little more than a drip.
Oh, I see. Would you like me to reschedule you for another time?
Wow! Good timing.
At a high school in New Jersey.
Please fill in this admission card. Well, how long do you expect to stay in the hospital?
We may be sold out of them. Let me check the back. ( The clerk goes to the storeroom, returning a few minutes later. ) I'm afraid we're out of stock. Would you like a rain check?
OK. Try closing down all the files you're not using at the moment.
No, thanks. I ’ m all set. Good-bye.
There is a stop at Tiananmen Square. The stops will be announced on the bus both in English and Chinese. When the stop is coming, you just push the red button near the rear door if you want to get off.
Put your luggage on the scale, please. Oh, your luggage is overweight.
Thanks, bye bye.
I'm getting a little excited now. What clothes should I wear?
I ’ m so happy for you!
I must weigh it. Do you want to send it by ordinary or registered mail?
The macadamia cake was out-of-this-world!
Well, if you think you are ready, I'll let you enroll.
Could you tell me how to get there?
That sounds great!
Or what only we are able to give them.
No, just tomatoes, please. And large fries.
That'll be for you to decide. I've got a new dish that I want to try out on you.
Please be careful next time.
I am on Route 80, a few miles east of the University of Utah.
Your T-zone gets oily easily, but your cheeks are dry in winter. Am I right?
It's a drama called Soul Food. This channel is BET-Black Entertainment Television. It has black shows, news and commercials.
I don't have this kind of software.
I got it for parking in the red zone.
That's how much this t. v costs.
Have you been here before?
Oh, good. That'll be the number forty four?
What finance experience have you had that qualifies you for this position?
I guess you see the value in it, too.
This one is only 50 yuan.
Can you recommend a resort to me?
Well, thank you very much but I thought l'd try and chair the meeting by the rule — at least for a while.
Is the wooden case strong enough for transportation? You see, 100 boxes of pliers are very heavy. It's about 2,400 kilograms.
It was so fantastic I didn ’ t really want to come home.
Oh, don't. I'm sure you'll be the loveliest bride ever!
Good.You really know how to enjoy yourself.
Then you can try some local products.They ' re also of good quality.
Thank you, bye!
120 British pounds. But there are still three days left in the auction. If you want it, you'll have to bid. Do you have the guts?
yes, but it's so humiliating! I don't want my friends to know I failed!
Shall we do some jogging?
Here we are, Miss.
Why not! I rolled a five. The category is Best Pictures.
It is RIB 10 yuan initially and 2 yuan for each kilometer.
I want to get on the bus already.
Do you have ID?
Are you ok, Chuck? You look pale.
Honey, you know, we don't have enough room for a pet dog.
I need to excise my arms too. How can I do that?
I think I'm going to eat a piece of fruit.
Ready for what?
Really? And Chris? She was a very pretty little girl.
Oh, it hasn ’ t been painted yet.
It's about the quality of 300 cartons of dried mushrooms. They reached us two weeks ago, and were immediately examined after they arrived. To our astonishment, about 20 % of them were moldy and in many cartons there were even small brownish bugs crawling in and out of the half eaten mushrooms. We can't accept them in this state. They are unfit for human consumption. And the Medical Officer of Health has issued a Stop Notice on them.
I'd like a suite for four nights.
We like to get together, chat and enjoy beautiful music.
Oh, come on, they give them treat too.Oh, look, that little monkey is so cute.
Are the swim stations open 24 hours, like the rest of the gym?
Yes, but whom to?
I guess I'm glad exams are over.
I didn ’ t have any change.
First I was late for school this morning, and now I broke your vase. This isn't my day!
The housework is really a big problem for me. My husband is on a business trip to the U. S. now and I have to take care of everything myself.
Do you want to go to and empty classroom?
I ’ ll leave at ten o ’ clock.
Do you believe her excuse?
I got the message. I am quitting.
Me, too. I want to be a volunteer for 2008 Beijing Olympics.
who wouldn't! My friend Lee went so far as to get an autograph from him.
Brooke, I have bad news.
Yes, I'd like to change these dollars, please?
I ’ m afraid you ’ ll become angry. But I think I must tell you.
Thanks. I think I will try. Where are you going?
Now we have to walk.
Shall I take a picture of all of you?
Oh, I must be going now ; it was nice talking with you.
why? anything special there?
So then why would you ask them out in the first place?
That's what the weatherman said last night.
What do you use your computer for?
how about this one?
do you want to listen to your messages first?
In the future, that could be possible.
Don't play on the street or make any noise.
Is this your luggage?
That's because you don't know the short cuts. You'll learn them after a while. I can show you the ropes.
In some way, she is more modern.
And what is your call regarding?
Come on! A little labor, much health.
It is 45 yuan on the meter.
Everything is OK now, doctor.
Yes, two bottles of beer.
Thank you! I am interested in your product. But I am not familiar with your corporation.
Well, I ’ Ve been going to Athletic Express, but I don ’ t like it there.
What if I don't want to find another girl?
Why not? It's the very reason why I've applied for this job. It's really exciting for me to experience business in an international environment.
Well, my speech isn't very long. Would you please...
That would be wonderful.
OK. Oh, how much do you make at your current job, if you don ’ t mind my asking?
You'd better pay more attention to your health.
Thank you. I appreciate all your help.
For each time you overdraft, you have to pay $ 25.
This one, Shogun, looks good.
how about your tongue? Does it still hurt?
Sure. W-E-double B-E-R.
wait a minute. Let me throw on a sweater.
Thank you very much sir.
Yes. If you want to order room service, just press 0 on your phone, and that will connect you with the front desk.
I'm here to express my congratulations to you on your birthday. And I wish you many happy returns of the day. Here is a birthday present for you.
What exercises can I do to firm up my backside
I've already got mine.
Mine are wet, too.
Sure, I'd love to! But let me pay for the tickets this time. It's my turn.
Here is 4 dollars, keep the change.
But I can't miss the flight. It's an important meeting and It’s waiting for me.
I'm from England and I'm trying to make a travel plan for today.
That ’ s what my computer is showing.
Spring Festival is the most important festival in China, isn't it?
Hi there. Do you need any help?
It is so encouraging to hear this remark. The secret is to make plans. Write down your goals, short-term and long-term and make detail plans for a week or a month. Then just work hard.
Aah! Close your eyes. You aren't supposed to see this.
Is that Anne?
Would you like me to leave the samples with you?
I can cancel it for you right now.
It's 60 yuan, please.
Can you tell me where the taxi stand is?
That ’ s amazing! Were any other records broken?
Hi. Can you give me a wake-up call tomorrow?
He said he would tell us the secret of becoming a successful man.
Yes, very gorgeous. Sometimes, I can deal with my business without stepping out of our house.
You must have found much difference between working in company and studying in college.
Okay, they'll be ready for you in an hour.
It's our pleasure to do business with you. We'll let you have the offer next Wednesday at the latest.
Sounds a bit too far fetched to be true, don't you think?
I see, that's a long time.How much was the watch?
Let ’ s move the sofa. Can you get a grip on the bottom at that end? I ’ ll lift this end. I want to move it sideways in that direction.
I hear you have just shown your hand first to Lin Ping.
Exactly what did he do?
There ’ s a possibility. What do you say?
Hey Jane. How are you doing these days?
Oh, I am sorry. What's on Channel 2 at 10 pm?
Oh yes, I ’ Ve been to Britain many times. I go there on business.
That wouldn't seem right.
OK, I see. Thank you!
Certainly, Visible Treasury Certificates. Then you can get a receipt from the savings office as proof of payment. Hence the ' visible ', you can see it.
What have you got?
Just last week.
I'm not sure, but I don't think she's given out that many.
I am the manager here. You can complain to me. How may I help you?
Maybe our checker is faster at scanning the food.
Dad, where are we off to?
I really felt that the service was exceptionally good.
Yes, of course. Step in, please!
That's an excellent question. I'll bet your wondering why we ask you to wear hard hats and safety googles while you's in the plant. The reason is simple, we care about your safety and we want to ensure there are no injuries today. As you will see, to maintain a high level of safety, we also require all of our staff to wear similar protective gear.
Yes, I do like him.
Actually, would you mind looking after my pet tarantula and snake for a couple of weeks?
I don't think we can visit the city in one day just by walking. How much does the limo cost?
You ’ re not nervous, are you?
That's excellent! Have you received your conditional offers yet?
Yeah, well, I fill you in one the details later.
Let ’ s not go there, Joanne! Ok, so let ’ s start with the record collection, I ’ ll take the albums I contributed and you can have your cheesy disco albums back.
hi, come on in. Can I take your coat?
My major is English. Of course I'll apply for an English teacher.
And do you want the glossy or matted finish?
Don ’ t worry, you can pay in an installment, that is to say, you don ’ t have to pay the whole amount of money at once.
it is. Our customers really like it. Do you have any other questions about your new accounts?
But you know, things cannot always go as you expect.
It can also entertain your passengers like me.
Is this about the Sales Assistant position?
George, how can we? Vacations cost money. And this month we don ’ t have much money left after paying the rent.
What's his suggestion for this work?
I am sorry.sir.We will send someone immediately.
Like to come over to our fancy dress party?
What do you recommend? What can I do to lose weight?
I'd better not. Brooke hates the Backstreet Boys!
Yes. Fill it up, please.
why did you lie to me in the email?
Wow! So many choices you have! I wish I could, but I just can't. I'm on a diet to lose weight.
Fred, can you tell me how I can open my QQ Zone?
All right. I'll call you tonight and tell you the time.
It's a big room with a king-size double bed and two single beds. We could also add rollaways.
Would you like another one?
Nice to meet you.
Not always.Sometimes we don't understand her.Then she has to repeat what she said.
Ok, let's sign it.
Our systems are 100 % trouble-free.
Can I be of any service to you?
that doesn't sound too promising. Does he have a defence lawyer?
Can you pay cash, then?
OK, so now we need a baking pan right?
Sure, we have a non-smoking queen with an ocean view for $ 189 or a standard room with a courtyard view for $ 139 a night.
I ’ Ve had it a few days, but the rash really got bad last night.
Yes, I agree with you. We should add our opinions to the research report.
So, do you want to go somewhere for dinner and practice our English together tonight?
Yes, I'd like to give it a try.
that's why I like department stores more. Shopping at a wholesale market like the locals is one of the few things I am unable to grow accustomed to.
I really need to find a bus that goes by PCC.
if you don't think twice about the rides and go on every ride that you can, you'll have a good time.
Oh, she can make her own decisions.
That sucks. You wanna go grab a beer?
Well it was 3 to 4, but Ripen ’ s home run made it 5 to 4 since another player was on first base.
Last month, we only had 40 hits on our site. Our products and prices are good, but the problem is that no one knows about our website.
Yes. What kept you from arriving on time?
I wouldn't do that.
That's a good idea. Let's see if we can get more people in this plan. There isn't much business these days anyway, so I think many people will be interested.
Of course! I can watch them without you!
Sure, let's take a look at the menu first.
Can I take your order?
Daddy, may I take your compass? I feel so cool with it in my hand.
You know I wasn ’ t at the meeting. I was meeting with Mr. Wei about this account. I ’ Ve been on this for a month and a half.
Of course. Your balance is 92,320 RIB in your Securities Account. How much would you like to withdraw?
I'm so glad for your help.
Yes, please. I'm picking out some presents for my children and wife.
That's all?
Actually, it's not that good. I can read but I can't speak very well. I haven't had a lot of chance to practice.
Do you know who ’ s just got married? Old Mc Donald.
Good? Yes, it's good for her but not for me. You see, she tells me that I'll feel better about myself if I slim down. She keeps giving me newspaper clippings about the latest miracle diet and insists that I join a health club, as she has.
Alright. Great. Then we must get a card for you.
Your parallel parking isn't all that great.
Can you tell her I'm waiting to speak to her?
You also need to prepare formal clothes for the interview ; a suit should be the best.
No, she's out for lunch. May I take a message?
This California weather is so uncertain, it's impossible to know what'll happen.
Great! So I'll know who to call if I ever need a lawyer.
She's chic, isn't she?
And what color would you like?
How many students are in the class?
Very good. I feel quite refreshed now! You should come with me sometime - exercise is good for you!
Hmm. Do women usually work after they get married?
You might not believe this, but I used to be twice the size that I am now!
At the Friendship Hotel in Beijing.
Come on over. This is your desk, and this is your time card. Be sure to clock in and out before and after you work.
It is said that the presents they got value less than 200 yuan, and it is no use for them at all, because they don't cook by themselves.
No. I ’ d better not.
No, Mum, I'd rather stay inside.
Are you going to take your children along?
If you asked me, you've got a screw loose somewhere.
How were things in the Tokyo branch when you were there?
Yes. I went there once on a business trip.
Well, I'm not likely to get a rise and you haven't the money for a mink coat, so let's come down to earth and have another drink.
yes, that ’ s true.
Well, the bigger the better, I think.
The class on Monday and Wednesday will be fine.
I understand that. But I think maybe it's not a date. You are taking the matter too much to heart.
I want to have a complete relaxation this weekend.
Yep. And relive those good old high school days.
What colour is it?
Hmm... Tell me more details about our jobs.
I will be withholding my rent check this Friday unless these problems are addressed immediately.
Do you like swimming?
What happens now?
With pleasure. It's easy to have a memory expansion on board capacity and fulfill your needs for a computer. Besides, there is more space for extra cards to expand later on.
No problem. I just got paid.It ' s my treat.
Hi, Mel, would you like to come and have a cup of coffee this afternoon?
I think so, you know there is a great deal of opportunity for business there.
That ’ s right. Make sure you give the accounts department all your bank account details as soon as possible.
It depends on your height and body type.
Oh ok, where do I get off?
He has to deliver letters every day.
Then, Do you know her younger sister?
OK, and what kind of sports do you usually play?
I graduated and now want to get a BA.
Well, what do you think of the aluminum pan?
How about this one? It is well-known for the effect of removing scurf.
Yes, could you please go over this for me? and see if there is any mistake in it?
Yes.Here ' s my identification.
Let me put your cases into the trunk and please get in the back.
That's my specialty. Let me put this around your neck.
Yes, there is. Those organizations exist. You always can call a lawyer if you need legal help.
I know, but I was so upset. I mean, come on! Does she have to do everything her boyfriend says?
Let's see if we can reach some sort of agreement over your curfew.
Certainly.here you are.
We need to elect club officials before the summer starts.
anything you need to have in the place?
Sure. What do you want to have today?
Maybe you should call your post office.
That's nice. How much is it?
Why? I don ’ t want to have nail polish or anything like that!
OK. Here is the money.
I don't know. Let me look on the rack. Here is one. LARGE. Try it on.
Yes. The other large cities are Chengdu, Dalian, Wuhan, tianjin, shenyang, Chongqing. Hongkong and Guangzhou.
' Romeo and Juliet '.
What about cats? They are more independent.
Quite well, Tom.And you?
Can you make sure you leave a little extra space in the collar? My neck gets easily irritated.
I'd like a banker's draft please. It's not really urgent.
I really enjoyed the food.
When do you think you will do that?
Yeah, definitely. I was hoping to catch a ride with you.
Here it is. This is what my sister has.
You said it. You know, they fall in love at first sight and quickly jumped into marriage.
I'm absolutely lovely, thank you.
I've just gotten a pair of pre-sale Star Wars movie tickets from a friend and was thinking of inviting you along for the opening premiere. Are you interested?
I was thinking of maybe taking a drive to the beach.
According to their scheme, it will begin on September 10th.
No. It's only a five-minute walk. You can't miss it.
How do you think a manager should react to an employee ’ s unsatisfactory work?
that's amazing. I will install an online messenger program when I get home.
Oh, I've heard about him before. He even created a special dance of sleeve shaking.
There's a lot of rain in summer, but it seldom rains in autumn.
Why such a big difference?
Thank you. I have an appointment with an important client at 10
Jack always lives by his wits and he cannot support his family.
When do you start?
That's right. For quite a few years, I rode a bicycle to work. Then I got a motorbike.
so what happened?
You bet. You should try it yourself.
Did you know that fashion is cyclical?
I'd like to, but the photocopier is out of order.
No. I like to be outside. I took up hiking and mountain biking.
It's very expensive, right?
Basically, you really don ’ t need to do much of anything. On the Continued Claim Form, you will note that you now have a new job and also note what you are earning.
I went on a trip with my family last week.
Quite right. And unlike the soldiers in xiangqi, the pawns in chess can promote once they reach the furthest rank. It is very agreeable to grant merits to people with good performance.
I heard that you finished my home inspection, and I was wondering how it went.
Any new ideas on the Mr. Fro case? How can we give this motor oil a new brand identity?
All right, madam, it's your turn. What will it be today?
Hmm, that's all right. Shall we meet at the bar near the beach?
Half past seven in the morning.
Next Monday is December 2nd. The buses will leave at 8, but we must begin loading at 7
It might seem that way, but this events were all carefully chosen based on marketing research. These are the events that our customers and potential customers care about.
If you go out recently you will find some people riding scooters in high streets and back lanes.
I am a reporter at a TV station.
"And to make matters worse, you're urged to drink "" one more cup time and again.There is too much etiquette to observe. You'II be set free at a Western banquet It seems we are keen to make it convenient as possible to savor the wine, its color, its aroma and its delicate taste."
Good for you. No problem, I'll listen to the car radio
Sorry, I'm very near sighted.
Maybe we all will be all things to all men.
I'm afraid that there is no room to negotiate the price. This is the best price we can quote.
Oh, It's really far from here. May I ask how old you are?
I ’ ll bring the card. Thank you very much.
Actually, you can only have four.
Sounds good. Thanks a lot.
Let's take a look at the Campbell Project.
New house? Really?
All right. But I'm only in on Saturday.
No need to worry. You won't feel anything at all. I'll give you an injection to stop the pain. Just wash your mouth out with this water, will you?
Would you like to buy any other cosmetics for your girlfriend? We have a full range of products from cosmetics to skin cleansers and moisturizers.
Does everybody need to be there? Hilary and Jason are on vacation this week.
Here is the final draft of our contract. I'm glad that we have reached an agreement on almost every term in our trade.
How about a cold bottle of beer.
It’s truly exciting to work in newly emerging unified market. Brussels will be center of the new market in the continent.
You are flattering me.
Yes, this is everything on the list.
Yes, I know it is one of the leading industries in the petrochemical field.
I had broken up with him, how painful I feel. I ’ m going to drown my sorrows.
Engaged. Oh, dear! Could you tell her it's a long-distance call?
No... He told me I'm pregnant!
I think that's a bunch of nonsense. It seemed ok to me.
So then, why don't you drive it?
It's too early. Let's make it seven, OK?
Yes, in our company, the women have a two-week vacation a year, besides this, if you are a married woman, maternity leave for some months is permitted.
Could you explain what you saw?
Certainly. How about this one?
Yeah. That ’ s right. What can I do for you?
Cindy, you're so cute.
Is the place well-furnished?
You could try using a spam filter to reject stuff that's obviously pornographic or anything else you don't want.
No thanks. I have had enough.
I didn ’ t know you could do that.
Good morning.Wilson Association.
Yes, they are our main export bases of tools with the advantage of having good production experience and long historical record. All their products enjoy high prestige in the world market.
Don ’ t do this! Don ’ t do that! You mustn ’ t do this! You can ’ t do that!
Yeah, I think so too.
Hi, John. What brings you to town?
Is that right? Why?
Really? How can he be so sure about the timing?
The police officer that pulled me over said I was speeding.
I want to see the museums, and I want to shop a lot.
Welcome to Hong Kong. I'll go and get the car. Could you please wait a few minutes?
Well... the beer sounds good!
It's nice to be here.
Where did you learn to cook these amazing dishes?
I heard that the government might need to increase the retirement age, because otherwise there will not be enough workers to support the young and the elderly.
Excuse me, are these deck chairs free?
Where'd you get those?
Right, it was a chick flick, just like this one, so what's the difference? Besides, this is the last week for the third movie in Destroyer series and I want to see that on a big screen. Action movies need to be seen in a theater on a big screen.
Hi, Tom. Want a cup of coffee?
Do we still use the conference room in the same hotel as last time? You remember? I like that one.
You bet. The wrestlers had got sound defences and they simply couldn't make it.
I just voted.
I know he will, too.
How did you do that?
Ah, get back to you.
Wait a minute, that?... Doughnuts? They organic doughnuts, Kelly?
Sure, what's the author's name, please.
So do you feel happy now?
Excuse me. Would you please make a suit with this material?
What fruits are in season right now?
You're welcome, sir.
I was born in Beijing in 1965.
Ok. See you tomorrow.
I know little of her. I only think she ’ s pretty and intelligent. Of course, she ’ s diligent, too.
You know that you ’ ll have to pay utilities on top of the rent, right?
Then you apply the varnish, which is very easy. It is like painting.
We moved here when I was fourteen.
Our toner cartridges are already out of ink... Could you make an order for a new set?
I think she just likes to make us miserable.
Good afternoon, sir, is there anything I can do for you?
I'd like to buy a new mobile phone please.
Yes, that's what I am doing.
Really? I ’ m not sure that I would like all the attention. There have been numerous cases of paparazzi interfering with star ’ s private live in recent years.
Didn't you notice all the roses?
Yes, that will be just as good.
Yes. I am in a hurry. Please take a shortcut.
What can I do for you, miss?
Did you get a nice tree?
I heard there was an accident today.
Yes, but he may be too eccentric even for you.
Would you care for a cup of tea before your meal?
And my parents say the whole year will be as good or as bad as new year day itself and bad or rude words on the day will bring a bad year.
Fine! I want a divorce!
But if the sunshine is too strong, it might damage the eyes and the skin.
OK, I'll buy two pairs of each color.And do you have sports socks?
You are in luck, we have one free.
I like the jeans, but you need something to go with the top. It's too plain on its own.
Yes, I'd like to have a share of steak.
Yeah I got a club card. Here you go.
I must've missed it.
I would like to fight my ticket.
Have you followed the value of dollar lately?
Could you explain the paper-making process to us - in very simple terms - please?
I want to keep both of them, if that's possible.
Of course, sir.
What does a Chinese food have?
Sure, do you think you could live out here? You know, back to nature at all?
He did. It was one of the best ones available. But that didn ’ t stop them from disabling it. And on a crowded street too.
We're redecorating our living room.
No! Christmas without him is bad enough. So, honey, do you have cold feet yet?
I'll come for you at about eight.
How much do you want to change?
We're terribly sorry for that. We'll send our staff io fix it now. Or do you want to change your room?
Oh, that sounds great. How about 6 o ’ clock?
Don ’ t be intimidated. There is a lot to sign, but I will explain everything to you very clearly.
Hello, I am calling about my cable service.
Well, let's stop dragging our feet and find a Sichuan hot pot restaurant for dinner!
When will you be back?
So, what do you plan to do today?
I hear you're moving to New York.
We have too many cars!
I maintain that the most important thing is having good friends. A person can't live all by himself. A friend in need is a friend indeed. So the more really close friends I have, the happier I am.
Sure, I planted them. They're organic.
We need to talk.
OK. how does this sound. let ’ s get you suited up and hit the dance club tonight. I hear that an awesome DJ is playing and there will be a lot of pretty single girls there!
Oh? What happened?
It seems that nobody in your class likes Paul.
No, I hate swimming. I prefer playing tennis.
That ’ s a good idea. We could put up some posters in and around the campus with a list of events. It would be quite cheap to do on the campus.
Glad to tell you. The price of CPU is 300 dollars.
I'm tired.
It is lithium which can be used for over three years.
I see, but how do you pay for it? How do you know you aren ’ t going to be ripped off by the seller?
Do you know how to set up the timer?
We directly attribute an increase in our customer service feedback of 50 % to the increase in language skills and training that our employees have received.
Who's this Eric guy?
I really love this music. It's a compilation.
Central Park, please, but can you make a stop at Union Square? I wanna pick up my friend there.
Right. We'll ship the goods according to the agreed time schedule. Last, but not least, the inspection is to be carried out by Houston Commodities Inspection Bureau, which is final and binding on both parties.
Well, frankly speaking, I am running a little behind. It's 40 % done.
We'll miss you while you're studying in the United States.
Well I have a guest ticket. You can use it.
Do you mind if I smoke here?
I selected my college because it had an excellent academic reputation.
Just sign at the bottom.
Do you love me?
We do a fair amount in tiles and in insulators for electrical appliances. But kitchenware and tableware are our mainlines.
Hi, Vanessa. I ’ m Don. I ’ m calling from Seller ’ s Market. Are you still interested in a position as a cashier?
My car has a problem starting. Could you please take a look at it for me?
About 12 o'clock, when I came home from work.
Taylor, you're looking a little pale. Are you sure you want to hand out nametags?
Do you shop online often?
Sorry to interrupt, Doris, but can you tell me more about these tour groups, what kind of things they enjoy, and so on?
How much does it pay?
that's really commendable. I think more celebrities should use their money to help people like Oprah has.
I can't do that, Zina. You know I can't.
How long will it take us to get there?
OK, I'll leave at 9:15, Is that all right?
Two years ago. At that time I had no problems. Now I can ’ t even make out something ten meters away.
Thank you. Good afternoon Mrs. Smith, Miss Duncan, Miss Lamb.
finally we're on board!
I regret to tell you that the position of Sales Manager has gone to another person.
OK, Fitness Consultant. How many subscriptions do you want?
Not too bad at all.Do you have a minute?
Lulu. Lulu. Say hello. hello. Oh, she is so smart. Good bird.
What size are you?
Thank you. That ’ s perfect timing.
What is your long-term goal in this career?
I like the different instruments that they use.
Have you updated your resume recently?
Who will be there?
Thank you, sir. I'll try my best to assist Richard in his work.
The meter reads 9.15 dollars.
I can try to arrange that for you.
But I did't take any laundry service during my stay here. I think you have added someone else's.
The police need our help finding a robber.
It's my pleasure. Well, then, see you tomorrow.
Mr Edgar, hello! How's business? Still booming? What can we do for you today?
That's a beautiful city. When do you want to go there?
That leak is a problem for my water bill.
Ok, good luck to you.
Yes, 20 % would be perfect.
I recommend you this one. It's a very popular kind of coat-the most recent thing.
Just a minute, please.
Your ID card, please.
What sights are included on the tour? Is the entire time spent in Paris?
How's your new job going?
No, doing it in the long run will make you an acute man.
Luckily, his company has a position available here, so he ’ s going to see if he can get relocated.
Good morning, Doctor!
has the government taken some measures to curb it?
Well, it still hasn ’ t gotten here, and my boss is pretty angry about it.
Of course. It's a good school. How long have you lived in Taichung?
I'm afraid we can't go as high as that. You know we usually don't give any discount. but considering the newly established business relationship between us, I could give you 3 % off the list price.
Hmm. Well, in that case, we could go to the movies.
it's very different from Chinese food, but I am getting used to it.
I slept like a baby. I fell asleep right away last night, didn't wake up once, and didn't have nay nightmares!
Yes. Baked eggs and buttered toast. I like my baker very crazy.
Yes. We've signed them before. We even brought our chops.
I got laid off today.
I am sorry. I ’ Ve left my disk at home.
What degree did you receive?
I just got back from fighting the crowds.
Me too. I ’ ll see you after work, huh?
I know. I always hope for the best and prepare for the worst.
But mum, I didn't mess it up.
She is the cheer-leader. They are required to put on a performance. Look! Here they come.
What about your use of raw materials?
All right, but hurry up. It takes you hours to change.
That's really special.
How do you know about this company?
Sure. Let me see... at 6:15 a. m. local time tomorrow.
Well, that top is a little too tight, and those jeans aren ’ t dressy enough. And I don ’ t feel comfortable with that. What do you think, Vicky? You ’ Ve been very quiet up to now.
I guess cooking is not as easy as I thought.
New York Times is better?
Really? I'm surprised. I didn't know his English was that good.
I don ’ t say that. But it seems to me the housewife should do that.
Who are those guys?
I'm glad that some of you get it, but let's go over it once more.
But people can just throw them into the trash can as they turn around.
And there are Cantonese cuisine and Kiangsu cuisine.. Most people like them.
Dad, where is the Book Building?
I've heard that. Does your trainer tell you anything about keeping fit?
The snow is so beautiful.
They want you to pick up the cost of the home inspection, but they accepted your offer.
Yes, we have the free samples for customers. And you can have a try.
Can I get you another blanket?
You get home late, don ’ t you?
Yeah, I broke up with Lisa.She blew a gasket over it. Whoa, get a load of that!
Do you have experience in advertising?
And what's the maximum output?
I think so. we certainly don ’ t want a highjack to happen on our plane today.
What ’ s wrong? I want a break from this horrible job.
Did Mr. Lin put you in charge of marketing?
Wow that ’ s great news! They ’ re a great couple!
This visa is good for two weeks. Do you intend to stay longer than that?
Are you kidding? Can you afford it? Do you think we can get a room on such short voice?
Oh, yes, it is. I'll take this one.
Please don't make it too tight. This is for autumn wear, so make sure you allow for a cardigan underneath.
It will be. And today is, too. I just talked to the airlines...
I am fine. I am going swimming this afternoon. Are you coming with me?
One bedroom will be okay.
Great. We will give you a chance to have an interview in our company.
Do you like western music?
Yes, I think so, too. I must introduce myself in truth.
Thank you. What's your occupation, Mr. Smith?
They describe how each process goes on to the next.
It could vary quite a bit, between 2 and 10 dollars per square yard.
What? You feel sorry for the butterflies?
Where do you need to catch this bus at?
Early in the New Year I guess.
There's not a drop left of anything.
That will be OK.
Here will be OK.
How is your English ability?
Our current apartment is valued at RIB 700,000. We can sell it and put that money towards buying the new apartment.
Sure. The local train. It stops at every station.
As soon as possible. Do you have a flight tomorrow?
a bit? I'm extremely annoyed that he didn't phone me when he promised me that he would! He's such a liar.
She often cooks it in a large pan of boiling water.
London, Paris and a few other cities.
Thank you. I simply believe the goodness of human nature.
How do you do? Mr. Brown. I am Susan Heywood.
I got stuck in traffic again. There was a terrible traffic jam near the Carrefour intersection.
Well, surfing, scuba diving...
This is really a sad story. Did they trace back your luggage?
I got a promotion. Lunch is on me.
I like NBA very much.
Also some traditional Chinese food, like noodles and dumpling are marketed in modern ways with improved food quality. I heard this year, the government has imposed very stringent inspection on the hygiene conditions restaurants and suppliers of food are also under tighter control.
Well, would you please send someone to 502? I have some clothes to wash.
I genuinely appreciate the concert.
My daughter plans to quit her present job and wants to find another. She says she wants to get a better job with higher pay.
Right. Unless, who know what will happen.
Of course.Let me help you.
When do you plan to deliver the goods?
Have the owners answered back with a counter-offer for my offer to purchase the house?
Darling, can't you stay for a few more days?
Out of those what is your favorite?
Not bad. What about you?
it's very nice. I haven't heard live music in a while. This is fun.
What do you do when you are angry?
Not really. I like looking on the internet at what ’ s available, but I usually prefer to actually see and touch what I ’ m buying before I pay for it. Sometimes, I ’ ll look at something in a shop, but lat
It's December eighteenth.
Good morning, Miss Cai. Congratulations! You ’ Ve passed the interview.
Yes, I'd like to make a deposit.
In that case, I ’ ll get you to fill out this paperwork. I ’ ll need your social insurance number, and two pieces of government ID. If you could just sign here, and here, and here we ’ ll be all set. Would you like to make a deposit today?
Wow! You really like fruit, huh? You've already had 3 plates!
They should be there in the next hour.
That's fine. Is it a Time Deposit?
We only accept payment by irrevocable letter of credit payable against shipping documents.
Yes, it's far quicker and less complicated.
Mud? But Ivan told me there were no mudslides in that district. I thought all the mudslides were down in Chichitango.
It has been a pleasure. Goodbye.
Right. If the cheque is coming from the US, into a local currency account it will take 7 working days to clear.
It's made in Jingdezhen.
Take the same number bus going other direction. There ’ s stop right cross the street.
Yeah, yeah, yeah! They wipe out tight, tired feelings and remove lines and age signs. Blah, blah... See, I can even recite it.
Got it. What's the proper time for tea?
Excuse me. Could you tell me the way to the Star Hotel?
I ’ m sure you do miss that type of cooking. But can ’ t you try to get used to Western food?
That sounds all right.
Oh, thanks, professor Donald.this is very nice of you.
Oh, he had fooled me.
No, that would be too expensive. We used the train system.We bought a special pass called a Enrail pass. It lets people use the train wherever they want, as often as they want.
Is your back door higher than the ground level?
yeah, but personally, I hate bargaining. If I bargain, I might come to a lower price, but I will never know the true price of what I am buying ; and I always have the feeling that I am overcharged at th
looks like you might like the soft sleeper then.
Yes, you came here on the right day. They're on sale today.
In Thailand. I taught English there.
Yes, I have got some special local product, I want to take them for my friends.
Yes, it displays some social problems and interprets the values of our white-collars.
To tell you the truth, it's the most tedious course I'ever had.
The old man is knocked down by the bicycle.
What kind of chocolate do you want?
I usually go on holiday during the spring or the autumn. I try to go somewhere where the weather is more reliable than in my city.
It's easier to drink this once a day than eat fruit and vegetables all day.
My Buddha!! It's beautiful! But I thought you were afraid?
My name is Zhuang Lingy. How are you, Miss Kelly?
How could I ever forget? I even bought you roses because I love you.
Yes, I like this one.It goes very well with my coat. How much is it?
Waiter, please make out the bill.
We have a copy machine in our computer lab, located on the first floor.
I am very glad that you say so. We have prepared a typical Chinese dinner this evening.
I know, I know, but if I didn ’ t buy it for him, he ’ d never buy it.
We have a deal then.
no, no, you helped me with my computer last week. I want to repay the favor.
yes, it's a good company. But the management changed last month. We didn ’ t get along, so I quit.
When did that happen?
That ’ s certainly true. But, that ’ s what this job is all about, Maria. There's no doubt that this project is unacceptable.
That sounds like a blue rose! My sitting by his bed?
Very well, Mrs.Wang. I'll not reduce my order. I'll take the full quantity you offer. And I'll arrange for the Letter of Credit to be opened in your favor as soon as I get home.
I got a bachelor ’ s degree.
Have a good day.
I just got a parking ticket.
Of course, Mr. Green.
Not really, but landlords put up notices to attract students and they often have low rent.
Well, if you need some money to tide you over until payday, I can loan you some.
Haha. Still got that great sense of humor, I see. Here's my card. I sell used cars. A car from us is a car you can trust!
Yeah, they have all the machines, a pool, and a steam room and sauna.
Of course. Cigarettes are also taxed very heavily.
We will have a party here, right?
What about Next Monday?
You can use this. It has special effect for keeping your face moisturized. It has this lotion, as a gift attached.
Let's go and buy one.
Very good! Now, it's still morning here in New York.
Sure, Just push the button, like...
I have some cold tablets if you would like one.
Yes, you can. The best way is to first select the company you want to buy from, then we can help you to do it. Do you have a Current Account here?
It’s a fun job.
I had a wonderful experience with the game.
Don ’ t you think she looks like your daughter?
Well, I guess I just wasn't paying attention to the speedometer.
Hello, my name is Clark. May I speak to Mr. Allen, please?
What do you need?
About 2 years.
The kids want a rabbit. I don ’ t think it would be a good idea to get a mouse or a fish! That might be too tempting for our cat!
Good morning, Mr Croft.
So what do you think it is?
Yes, please. Would you please open this big suitcase?
No, I haven ’ t had a cold. I just have a heavy feeling in my chest when I try to breathe.
I got major FOMO from missing that this book.
Yes, let's do it.
Yeah, this one is very famous with a good credit among on-line customers. It's like an open free market. If you want to change your cellphone for a new one, you can sell the old one here.
Of course, It’s not polite of them, but sometimes you should put things the other way round and try to understand them.
Well, I know that he would never stab me in the back.But I've seen him double cross other people.
I'm glad you like it. It's $ 60 in all.
The supply outstrips the demand in the job market and women are in a disadvantageous position as a whole.
All right.How about this one?
I've counted nine different cockroaches, and I accidentally stepped on another one.
I wonder if I could possibly borrow two bikes from the shop tomorrow? I ’ ll take actual care of them. I promise you.
You ’ re right. We will be able to travel at high speeds at the beginning and end of the journey, because we will be in built-up area.
the tank is almost empty. I guess I ’ ll drive to the petrol station to fill it up.
I've just had an argument with Bob.
Tim, please. Please be seated.
And my first nephew. He looks a lot like you, mum. He does.
It doesn't look right to me.
What were you planning on seeing?
That is awesome. Congratulation! I know you can make it.
Good evening.can I help you?
What do you think of the most important things to do when running a business?
Of course, I ’ Ve enjoyed it very much. I ’ Ve met my old friends and made some new friends.
You had a little trouble on your parallel parking.
So what do you do with all the out-dated issues?
Oh, that's very nice of you. I don't want to sound pushy, but I still l have one more question.
Harry, come here immediately!
Yes. we can get what we need at the stands right by the lake. Who do you think will catch a big fish first?
She can cope with it. Don ’ t be such a wimp!
I didn ’ t commit the crime.
Yes. I have switched it on for a long time. The room is still very cold.
what was the actual score?
Do you import any food items?
That's 1,825 dollars.
Are you alright, Ethan? You don't seem to be as cheerful as you normally are.
I think I might've bumped into her before.
Ok, not a problem. Let's go to the station.
About a year ago, he started feeling weak all the time.
Ok. I've got a list of place that fit your requirements. Let's just go through them. The first on the list costs 80 pounds a month, but it's on a noisy street and it's a little far from the university.
As you know, our main focus is to penetrate the markets of countries in Asia. What is the current legal framework in the countries?
OK, I know what you mean. It's my treat.
Well, I love it. The room is spacious and clean with big windows and a lot of sunshine. There are plants along the corridor. Especially, I got my own desk with computer and telephone. Such a great place!
Sure. It’s not very heavy.
One moment while I go and get my ID.
I hate the hero.He ' s too cruel.
Homework, attendance, and quizzes are sixty percent ; the mid-term and final are worth twenty percent each.
Bruh, that scientists was on point.
I bought it online.
Oh, no! How did this happen. Are you sure?
Wow, that is cheap. Thank you very much.
What an excellent idea!
All right. I'm going to the McDonald's.
Two weeks from Thursday, for three nights.
Did I? Well, anyway, you will get your raise when the economy starts picking up.
I would like to talk to you about your daughter.
I think I will have a dish of Vanilla ice cream.
I need some remedies for an upset stomach.
That's good to hear. Now there's still a whole New York day ahead of me.
You ’ re a real friend in need.
No, nothing of the kind.
You must tell your embassy about it. And I think they ’ ll issue you with a new one.
That's right. Details can mean succeed or fail.
I don't know when I can come. I'll let you know later.
Does the rate include the cost of gas?
Here you are. I think I have filled out everything correctly.
I really like the straight legs.
No snakes, please.
Excuse me, miss. I'm a transit passenger for Flight No. 207. Can you tell me where to go?
Maybe we can try shopping on line.
My name is Jim Jones. Are you coming for the interview?
OK, It’s better to be far away from him.
What do you want?
Hi there, I ’ m Bill Gotcha, the owner of Gotcha Enterprises. Did you find your way here OK?
Why, she's only $ 29.95.
We tried that, sir. The factory has gone under and the owner apparently has fled the country.
just over three weeks. Would you like a drink?
sure, what do you need to do there?
Just over 4 years now. Since this is your first day here, I'm sure you don't really know too much yet. Let me show you around, so you can introduce yourself to everyone.
I did not sleep much last night. I really feel bad. It was a crazy night.
No. But in the United States, the Christmas season begins about a month before December 25.
My temperature is 39 degrees centigrade.
My major courses were Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, International Trade, International Finance, World Economy, Psychology and Business English
Very well, I'll take these two.
Sorry. I think that's the cheapest
hi, I'm Lucas, I just moved in next door.
Thanks. I plan on it.
Mr. Rogers probably forgot to assign a locker to you.
I'm afraid you'll have to find a parking meter.
I do want to send it airmail, yes.
I couldn't agree more. If you have the company details with you I can get on with that right away. Is there anything else that you need from us today?
Why don't you have dinner with me tonight?
It's a good day for a picnic.
Yes, if we do business through other ways, it will cost a lot of time.
I'm not one for the games.
Well, he kept on pretending to have a fit, so they freaked out and just ran away.
The notification period of my current job is not that long and I ’ m quite profession to English and I am happy with the traveling abroad as I ’ m good dealing with the people from other cultures. It makes the whole job even more interesting. I will send my resume to you still this week.
No, firstly we sign the contract ; you pay 50 % of what it costs, and the rest when we finish moving.
Yeah, I went. Did you go?
Of course not. My name is Li Ping. Is this all your baggage?
Yes, please wait a minute. I'll fetch it for you. Here it is. Please try it on and take a look at the mirror. How do you like it?
Would you make me a dust coat out of this serge?
It’s over.
here we go.
Really? I need to go to the store too.
It depends where you live, sir.
Of course. It's H, O, R, S, T, then W, E, I, S, S, M, U umlaut, L, L, E, R.
Please meet him now.
Do you want to know where I bought mine?
I'm glad you like them... We'd appreciate your kind consideration in the coming negotiation. Let's drink to our friendship.
How does this Friday sound?
How about the passengers?
Smaller local companies. We specialize in trade & shipping industry.
It looks delicious. Can you tell me how to enjoy it? It's my first time to eat it.
First, I slept through my alarm and ended up two hours late to work.
Well, I want to be transferred to the Shanghai office.
Could you look for me?
Well, they used to, but they got rid of them because of environmental concerns.
Sounds like you may be far-sighted. OK, then, cover your left eye and read the chart in front of you.
No, he doesn't. Anyway, his wife found out that he has been two-timing for a long time.
Bring me a cup of coffee, please.
I ’ ll look for a ticket for you, too.
I want a rematch. Let's play again.
Good.Can you give me some information about it... uh.. mileage and the tires and things like that?
Was it your intention to kill the victim?
Where? I don't see it.
What would you like to be in the future?
But you have to promise me that you are not gonna wear that face.
Mr. Rodgers, how would you handle your account?
Liz, you were supposed to have had those contracts typed up by now.
Sorry, but he is out for lunch right now.
What if everybody in the wheres goes crazy?
That's fine. let's go skating together tomorrow.
I know you can do it.
Good harbors! Yokohama is one of the most famous port cities in the world, and Japan is the largest shipbuilding nation in the world. Also, there are long mountain ranges in the southern is hands. France isn't very mountainous, is it?
I don't think so. You are flattering me.
No, it isn't very cold at that time. You'll only need some light wool clothing with somejackets and shirts.
You ’ re welcome. You know, these days I have been reflecting on my biggest weakness procrastination. The more I think about it, the more I hate myself for being so disorganized. I decided to change the situation as soon as possible. Otherwise I will be more regretful later.
Fantastic! Would you like a smoking or nonsmoking room?
Ok, sue, I will just go in get her.
Yes. The language is hard to learn, but it's interesting.
Show me your torgue.What did you eat yesterday?
Yes, it is. Which department for?
Ha-ha... I'm just fatigued. And tomorrow is a big day.
Do I have any fees to pay?
I know many stores have that policy. But I have returned sale items here before.
Would you like to go to an activation with me?
How long has the company been in business?
Yes, but do you have any experiences as a sales manager?
Well, generally speaking, the park is a window on the world history, a window on the world civilization and a window on the world's tourist attractions as well.
Where do you want to meet?
he is a nice guy and very considerate. I was impressed with how smart he was and he has a great sense of humor.
No. You see, I went back to school to get my Master ’ s Degree when I was in my thirties. You won ’ t be older than that.
Ant Shirley, it's being years since we last met. How were you doing in the passing years?
The sky looks so clean after it rains. I love it.
Do you have any job placement services at EDD?
OK. Dad! I'm coming.
That's all you have to do.
And your Mom and Dad will buy you anything you ask for.
Oh you ought to go to the park next time. They have a route for joggers there.
It is feeding-bottle as the free gift.
Is he getting better now?
Closed? Are you kidding? What is it, some kind of holiday today?
Oh, it seems that I'm the only one who never blogs. When did you get started?
I greatly appreciate your help.
Yes, stay in bed and drink a lot of water. Your fever will be gone in a day or two.
Of course I did!
Of course, I did it myself.
Definitely. I really like Italian food.
Art galleries, cathedrals, statues, fountains, palaces, bistros, there's really too much to say.
You are going to be really jealous when you find out where I ’ m headed for the holidays!
Now, I am responsible for training new staff, but you keep overriding my authority by trying to pose your methods. I know you are a hotshot college graduate with something to prove. But I don ’ t like your way.
I had a pretty strict upbringing, and my parents taught at universities so they have extremely high expectations for me.
Why do you stop me?
May I ask for a wake-up call tomorrow morning?
First and secondary research. I hope that you can address this concern immediately as i find it very disturbing.
How many cigarettes do you smoke a day?
That's still too much. Can you lower the price further?
There's a story about breakdancing in the paper.
Who ’ s calling, please?
Have you had similar feelings before?
Please come in!
OK, I'll expected you around 2 o'clock?
The small sizes are more marketable than the large ones for us. I wonder if Your pastry tastes better.
I see. They must have incorporated a series of Chinese cultural elements.
If so, you can benefit a lot from them.
Cool! I can't believe he agreed to go all the way to Dallas with us!
You came to the right place. Any particular decade?
So how do you like it?
I'm doing really well.
Thanks. Hey, look at that guy over there. I think he fancies you.
What if I repay it early. Any perks?
I am so busy today.
Not all jobs pay into unemployment insurance, so their employees cannot collect benefits.
Hello. I'd like to change my reservation for March 19. My name is Mary Chang.
Do you have any vacancies?
It’s time to go and I hope we can get together again soon.
That's a good idea.
I know there is a beautiful farm in the countryside near Taipei. Are you interested in going there?
I ’ ll check for you.
My Goodness! What a busy line so early in the morning! Hello.
I work at the polling place.
Hey, Steven. What are you going to do this Saturday?
I can ’ t do that.
It's too good to be true.
Why? In my opinion, it doesn't matter whether you won or not. The most important thing is participation.
Well, I am sure you will.
Where exactly did you use your passport in the store?
It's very cold tonight!
Can you tell Bob from Tom?
About 15 stops.
fantastic. Thank you very much.
I think the most important thing is the interest in the job.
Do you sometimes feel overwhelmed by your work?
No, no, no. I'm just browsing. Thanks anyway.
Of course, ma'am, Tell me where to go.
Does he even know how to speak English?
Please be quick.
Yes, I will check you for asthma, and maybe we can check you for allergies later.
Hello, may I speak to Mrs Smith?
Try something new. We can find a supporting agency.
How about rock'n'roll?
Good afternoon. Welcome to Lincoln Bank, how can we be of service?
Yes. Everything's all set.
Mind your own business.
Then I need a money order for 250 dollars.
Then cut up the beef and marinate it in teriyaki sauce.
Maybe we should try a thai massage too.
Really? I don't agree. This Star Wars episode was incredible!
Chen Hong, too.
You're lucky. Not everyone has such a great boss!
She is certainly not my kind of girl.
Sure, what time will you like to depart?
Open your mouth and show me your tongue. Say ah... You have a bad cold. So you must stay in bed for a week.
I think that you look very cute today.
This go-around we're focusing on new moms, families with median income and one or more children under the age of two.
It’s a special kind of Chinese herb. It’s good for you!
The restaurant is on the second floor. We also have a cafeteria on the top floor. If you would like something to drink, you can either call room service or come down here. The bar is right behind the lobby.
Hello, this is Chen Kun. I am booked on flight LJ88 for Barcelona on Jan. 19th.
Is it kept in hand now?
Shipping the goods is to be made in three equal monthly installments.
Oh, what kind of music do you listen to?
Here! Open mine first.
No, I'll pay. It's my turn anyway. You paid last time.
Don't worry.There ' re few cars now.
How was your appetite?
Mom, why do chinese people like to touch my head? sometimes they even touch my cheeks.
This the concert thing is so sus.
Oh, that's not the same. I never pay for hotel souvenirs!
No, thanks. I ’ m just looking around.
Your idea may be a good one, but the trouble is that there are risks of pilferage or damage to the goods during transshipment at Hong Kong. How about shipping them from Seattle instead of network? You may choose either one as port of shipment. It makes no difference to us. There are more sailings from Seattle than from New York.
Well. I like them a little heavier. I don't have as much control, usually bowling straight, but the extra momentum compensates for that.
When will you be able to deliver?
That depends. We offer membership for one month, half a year and one year.
No, not too lavish.
Hello. I'm here today to pay in some foreign currency. Is that possible at this counter?
Oh, yes. It’s just a few minutes block. Turn left at the traffic light, and you ’ ll see it.
the workshop have never disappointed me.
He just stepped out. Can I take a message?
There ’ s a problem with your card.
Don't worry. I'll be there right on time.
It's difficult to explain. But this one is really cheap.
I'm in charge of marketing activities in South-East Asia, for example, organizing trade conferences and arranging exhibitions.
I'd like a facial.
Sorry, sir. That table has been booked.
I've heard some friends say when they get the article, it's quite different from what they see on the website advertisement.
Your search on this project has been excellent.
I don't know. If we can't, we can buy from ticket scalpers.
Can I prepare your drink on the rocks, or would you prefer it blended?
Good afternoon, Miss Qi.
This is Brown speaking. I'd like to speak to Mr.Tomas.
Poor man, he must be terribly fed up with it.
I think a Chinese student concentrates on written English, and uses it as a basis for communicating. From start to finish he ’ s learning vocabulary and fundamentals of grammar. This is a very difficult way to learn.
I'm going to clean it up later.
Yeah, oh my god! It's still there. We have our first date right on there.
We will get in touch with you by the end of next week.
That's great news, Jeremy. Congratulations! Anyway, I must get back, but give my regards to your wife Monica.
Welcome, how may I help you today?
We ’ re going to need a lot of new stuff after the holidays. Let ’ s make a list.
Shall we sign the agreement now?
Hi, Tom. You forgot to put on your sports shoes! It's Games Day today!
Ok. What do you think about our living room?
I like the soy sauce chicken.
I think building team spirit among the coworkers is very important. I believe we can accomplish a miracle if we stick together.
that ’ s fantastic. I ’ m going to go try that out in my room now. good night!
Of course I know.
No, I am asking you whether you will go to see it.
I need to buy some fruit.
The service charge is 1 % of the total amount of the check.
I guess they must not have your contact information, so they sent it addressed in care of your department head. Anyhow, they wrote to confirm in writing what you discussed about the Milton contract.
He married a girl who is only eighteen!
Judy, Why are you so interested in her?
What kind of bag is it?
I have some questions about my lease.
I might. Vince knows he needs to keep me happy.
Of course, I will.Well, it's time for me to say goodbye.The plane will take off soon.Hope some day you will come to America for a visit.
Why do you like it?
You are right.
Not really. There are many successful mixed marriage around us.
The Y. H. A., mun. The Youth Hostel's Association.
I don't want to see a movie by myself.
Yes, I showed that income on the Continued Claim Form.
Ok. may I ask what is the reason for returning these products?
Chen Liang, a table for four. And when are you coming?
Is he at home?
I think it is amazing. You can enjoy both the traditional Chinese culture as well as the vitality of a modern cosmopolitan city. The only thing I didn't enjoy was the subway.
Yes, that's why I'm here. I'm thinking about buying a second-hand apartment.
Silly boy! The dustbin is at the back of the school. Now pick up the paperand put it in the dustbiri.
Has Alan shown up yet?
Well, we've finally put the finishing touches on the training programs for next year. Here's a report showing the projected costs as well as the expected return on investment.
How many pills for each time?
We used to be very friendly, but it seems now that my daughter ’ s marriage has taken its toll of our relationship.
It is unnecessary.
I know life is not all roses, and I believe I will pull this through.
How much commission do your consultants get?
I don ’ t know. I didn ’ t really feel like going out. I guess I ’ m feeling a little homesick.
Excuse me. Check please.
I apologize, but the cable has been down lately.
Thank you. I didn't think it would be this simple.
I'm dreadfully sorry. I forgot to book the tickets yesterday.
What class will you fly? First class? Business class? Or economy class?
I love the relaxing colors in the tile and floor covering!
Discounts will more or less encourage us to make every effort to push sales of your products.
No problem at all. With this service, you can pay up to 10 parties at one time. Are these parties on your current beneficiaries list?
What an attractive blouse, You look so pretty in this blue dress!
Perfect. It really hits the spot.
Woo, okay, back up a second, Tracy. That's too direct. Can I suggest you say, please note that final payment is due two working weeks before publication? You don't want to offend her.
I doubt it.
I would like to cancel a check.
Do you play cards?
What does he do there?
Don't forget to keep the seat belt on.
Were you around when the robbery happened?
What a beautiful watch. It goes very well with your ring.
Yes, please. and you can cash my travelers check. Can ’ t you?
It sounds like a special quilt. Why do you want to sell it?
yeah, that's nice.
You must be joking. Those two?
How about this scarf, these earrings, AMD an anklet?
Just buy a cask of wine. Have you bought ice yet?
athletes are so woke.
oh, we ’ d like the buffet please. We ’ Ve heard It’s very good.
I passed the Band two in LPT, but I will try to achieve Band one which is the highest level.
I can always use my key to get in, but I would prefer that you be there.
She ’ s very well, too, Helen. Goodbye, Helen. Nice to see you.
Did you have to pay a deposit?
There's someone coming.
That's a good idea, to familiarise myself with it. Then, I'll be back if we decide to go ahead.
Can you effect shipment during September?
I see, may I ask what the occasion is?
Don't mention it.
Yes, I've just come back from Scotland.
I like to get rid of clothes that I don ’ t wear rather than keeping them in a wardrobe. They take up too much space. There are several charity shops that you can give old clothes to. They will be happy to receive them as long as they are in reasonable condition.
You will have to pay some for every extra pound.
We have strawberry, chocolate, vanilla and banana.
What did you say your stop was?
Would you like me to blow-dry your hair?
What's your trouble?
All right, Steven. Do you have a flashlight?
You mean I have to wear the same thing every day? MOM!
What's bothering that guy?
I can ’ t give you a definite answer. Let ’ s play it by ear.
I don ’ t care! You are grounded for life, mister!
Do we need food?
That ’ s not the end. They were so good that they convinced a bystander to help them lift the motorcycle and put it in the truck.
Yes. I'm leaving tomorrow. I came here just because I want to say good-bye to you.
Sure, would you prefer looking in the morning or afternoon?
Good morning. Welcome to Time After Time Watches.
Everything seems to be getting worse. I don't know what to do with it.
It takes two to make a quarrel and it takes two to mend fences.
It's sounds like fun.
They might be too hot for me.
But Dad, I should be working full-time at my age. I'm nearly 17.
Yes. Are you in his class?
Uh-oh! I can't use Ethernet. My computer is wireless only.
I like Renaldo the most.
Not at all. We've really enjoyed having you. I hope you'll come and stay again next time you're in Changsha.
I know he is a martial arts fiction writer. But I've read none of his novels.
Well, I've noticed all the new cars around here, for one thing.
How did this war start?
I hear you bought a new house in the northern suburbs.
I think I can, Kate. It must be Karen Marsh, the actress.
I prefer single breasted suit.
A ham salad sandwich.
That won't happen again, I'm sorry.
Yes, it did. It went off 30 minutes ago. You slept right through it. You ’ re like a dead person while you sleep.
That's kind of cool. But what's the trick mean?
Well, I hope he starts feeling better. Say hi to him for me.
We are always happy to adjust our cooking to meet your needs.
Thank you very much. Mr. Roberts.
Of course. The brand is Bird and it's famous for its quality.
You've got it, sir.
Does that actually work for you?
The computer went frozen.
Go to the Human Resource Office, please. You can get it there.
Were you in or out? Can you remember that?
Oh. Would you like some soup instead?
Thanks. I can wait here.
Absolutely. But it takes great perseverance to master.
The fourth. I'll send the prescription down there so you can just pick it up on your way out.
My ID card is lost.
And your address, please?
2 nights, how much does it cost?
it ’ ll be an expensive present, but we can share the cost.
Are you depositing cash or a check?
I don't think so. You have to wait for about 10 minutes.
Well, can you be more specific? There are a lot of websites about that.
It ′ s a state-of-the-art piece of equipment, sir. With a gigantic 16.1 USGA TFT screen, 2.8 Ghz mobile processor, generous 512 MB RAM, removable 80 GB hard drive, convenient CD-RW / DVD combo drive, stunning fast graphics board with 64 MB DDR DRAM, dual battery capability, integrated Fast Ethernet card, IEEE 1394 digital interface and eight USB ports, it has all the power of a desktop computer packed into an ultra-slim notebook!
Sure. Is there any extra care that I should take with your clothes?
Let's get a shopping cart.
How long do you think it will take to get to Union Square.
In fifty yuan bills, please?
Definitely. I want to get my mortgage paid off as soon as I can.
What kind of live bait are you using? Worms or minnows?
I will poke your eyes out.
Were you one of them?
Almost 30 % of the consumers can ’ t accept the price. Maybe we should lower our price a little.
I can't afford to.
But I need someone that I can count on for this job.
I do! My favorites are Mexican, Thai, and Indian.
I'd recommend you the Morning Paper, it is true that the paper is a newly issued one, but its circulation is rising. Last month, it reached to three hundred thousand, which is a very good figure for a new paper.
Wait for a minute, Mr. Brown, a single room with bath from today to the fifteenth.
Yes, you're right. Politicians of all kinds, religious people, and one or two madmen.
Yes, I understand the numbers.
May I have a look at that china tea set? It is extremely beautiful.
Well, we went to a dance club.
May I ask how many people there will be in the party?
I think yours is a well-known advertising company, so I ’ m sure to get opportunities to display my talent in advertisement.
OK, here you are.Anything else?
The one right at the back.
If you need anything else, just let me know.
Where in London do you live?
Then you must hurry up.There ' s only ten minutes left.
Uh well... would you like the bad news first or the really bad news?
That's pretty easy to explain. With the Deposit, the interest is fixed, but the Dividend of each policy will be transferred automatically into your bank account by the end of each year. The longer the term, the higher the Dividend you earn. This is because it is calculated at the Compound Interest Rate.
Through this course, I can learn more about the world around us clearly.
I ’ m going to vote.
I'm playing with my new jump rope! Watch this!
You ’ re just 4 mao short for the hard sleeper, but I ’ ll let it go. Anything for love!
Yes, you're right. I can blog wherever and whenever I'm on the move. It's especially good when I'm on a business trip and my laptop happens to be away from me.
Thanks a lot, Mrs. White.
I ’ m fine. Thanks for asking.
Do you think the traffic will be heavy?
Have you got the medicine yet?
We'll try our best. Anyway, we assure you that shipment will be made not later than the first half of April.
Oh, the day after tomorrow is Christmas.
That's great. I thought you said you didn't get the job.
Would you like something to drink? I've got tea and some grape juice.
I think that might work for me as well.
Good evening.My wife and I would like a room, please.Is there any room available? We don't have a reservation.
Well, you are flattering me. I wouldn't say I am a professional, but I did receive some training at school. My music teacher used to be a professional singer.
Cockroaches have declared war on my room!
Now that I have an idea of what you want, I can begin my search.
oh, it seems that I'm the only one who never blogs. When did you get started?
Excuse me, driver. Does this bus go to the museum?
I don ’ t really mind.
did your husband's family get to meet your family?
They were grown without using any chemicals that are harmful to our health. And yes, John, we need organic carrots...
I really like apples and grapes.
I found the ideal position. I ’ m working for a plumbing company.
Hi. I can't get going on my computer until I get a broadband hookup.
You know, we could look online at the local Internet sites.
No, not yet. Why?
Hi, I need to talk with the property manager right away!
I worked in a department store in a small town last summer vacation.
Thanks. You can also seek job information on the Internet.
I'll have that taken care of immediately.
yes. I have so many clothes stuffed into it. Perhaps I should get rid of some of them. There are clothes in there that I never wear anymore.
Oh, I see. I think the older generation tend to think in a different way.
What's wrong with it, sir?
I love flowers you know. Thank you very much.
Hi, Yang Tang. Come in! Pretty hot out there, isn't it? Did you have trouble finding us? Sit! Sit!
Thank you, sir. Have a nice drive!
In all honesty, it's also a great deal for our company. The exposure that we gained from sponsoring an invent like this was great for our image in the community. We accomplished as much as last year's advertising campaign, plus we were able to do a little fundraising for a good cause.
Thanks a lot. I'll be there tomorrow.
I don't know what to suggest. There're so many attractions, and they all sound interesting. One exciting program might be the Ten Thousand People Cycling round the Town. You can choose from the five routes that lead to different destinations.
the heating controls don't work anymore, so it always feels like it's about 100 degrees in the car — even in the summer!
I appreciate you helping me find a solution to the itching.
Perhaps I should call her later.
What about your brother?
I ’ m a sales manager in a publishing company.
I'd like some info about your Payroll Services, please.
Then you've got to try it. Let's go to the skating rink on Thursday.
Sorry, I have to work overtime.
Wow! I can't wait to change into my trunks!
Thank you very much. I will redouble my efforts in the future.
Son, it looks great on you.
I'm good. How are you?
Well, would you like something else? The new-made cafe parfait is really good. Want some?
We can't go that way, the road is blocked for the next few days.
Why do you look so sad?
That's it. I am Maria Smith. You must be Zhang Lin from Tianjin Sports Facility Co.Ltd.
It’s the anniversary of our weeding.
I'll charge it. Here's my card.
Okay, you're going to need to make an appointment.
You know, he is a taxi driver. He has to have his eyes peeled all the time when he drives, especially during the rush hour.
Sir but what exactly is making everyone so angry?
Ha, ha! Those days are long gone.
Thank you for your inquiry. Would you tell us what quantity you require so that we can work out the offer?
Why don't you run outside?
And have you ever tried taking vitamins?
Not much. I started exercising.
How have you been treating it?
you mean he plays well? Yeah, he often scores by free kicks in crucial games. But a football match is by no means merely a show of taking free kicks.
Those taste really good.
Not unless you want the matinee.
Thank you. Would you please let me know when we get to the stop? I'm a stranger here.
Sure. What do you want to know?
Why don ’ t ’ we say the 3rd around 2:00 p. m.?
That's all right.
They showed flowers that only provide their nectar to one type of butterfly or bee. The insect has to be the exact size to get the nectar. Other insects cannot get it. Of course, when the insect molle
Should I take a bus?
I'll clean my room before I leave.
did you play a lot of games when you were little?
"Don't forget to say "" Thank you "" when you take a seat."
It's a kind of investment. If I choose a good stock and hold it long enough, I can get good returns.
Do you think the music is well-matched?
You are meeting trouble halfway, I guess.
I kind of want a soda.
The Palace Hotel.
I can ’ t wait to start cooking! I ’ Ve bought the grill and charcoal. Do you have enough plates and utensils?
I ’ m sorry that you didn ’ t get in.
It's terrible how things have changed. You remember there used to be trees on all these hills.
You're welcome.Good luck, bye!
Where do you plan to go this winter?
Maybe if we asked around we could see what people would prefer.
I know. I feel bad about how much my car is adding to the pollution problem in this city.
I feel terrible, I really didn ’ t mean to knock you over. My tire, just exploded, and I lost control of my bike. Really, it was an accident. Please accept my apologies.
When will it begin?
Why? Are you kidding me? A guy like that is hard to find. Few boys are so caring, so patient, and did I mention he is hottie?
I'm afraid she's out.
That takes talent...
It's fantastic!
Oh, it was great. We had seafood buffet. They do one every Friday. The waiters and waitresses are very good. They are very attentive, but don ’ t hang around the table.
Soup does the body good, sweetie. It's what you need when you're under the weather.
What are you returning?
Did you go to the top of the Eiffel Tower.
I see. I'd like to reserve a table for two.
Oh, no! Now I'll be late.
What should I write except these?
I love just about anything by Prince.
Oh, really? That is great news. What does he look like?
And all of the flowers are in bloom.
Why don't you get a bikini?
We should probably have both.
The total comes to US $ 65.81. How will you pay today?
14 May flower Ave, Los Angeles.
That makes a lot of sense. Does the TV work well?
Nice to meet you Mr. Taylor.
do you want to attend the convocation?
Did you get my email?
How much is the rent for the apartment?
I realize that.
I'd like to see some Mandarin textbooks too. Do you have any?
Is there any service charge?
I heard you're getting married, James. Congratulations!
I see why it lags behind other towns.
You ’ ll be supervising six brokers who manage a combined total of 310 accounts.
Yes, I am Professor Clark.
Oh I don't know. Titanic?
Great. What do you suggest we see?
I know. But I couldn ’ t help.
How quickly will you need your supplies?
I not only passed my test, but I aced it! I'm so happy!
I wear size 36.This pair looks nice.Can I try them on?
Are you having any dessert?
Really? Quite a woman, isn ’ t she?
No problem at all, sir. Housekeeping will deliver you all the amenities you like in a bit.
Where can I get the subway Madam?
Oh, I don't care about that.
Yes, what can I do for you?
no, not really.
What's the matter with my throat, doctor?
Well, our store offers a 90 - Day return policy and the manufacturer offers a one-year warranty on any factory defects.
exhaust fumes from vehicles cause a great deal of damage to the environment.
I just started working out.
No, not at all.His examples are really interesting.
Ah, yes. There's big cavity.
I thought Henry usually did the conferences.
It is high time you have a talk with him. That may help clear the mists.
Well, if there is no damage, you can return it.
I told him I would divorce him if he wouldn ’ t tell me the truth or end the relationship with her.
No! Not at all. But, I did find out they have more than one position with different clients, so at least one would probably work.
When you pass the gym, it'll be the first door on the left. Do you know how to sell your old textbooks for money?
How are you feeling today?
I have, actually ; I ’ Ve always wanted to build my dream home myself.
Thanks for your support and care.
You are full of boasts. I can examine you by question and answer. What is Hollywood? Where is it? What is the function of it?
What do you mean by that?
Davids who, we have 5 Davids in the office.
Ok well, you let me know your schedule and I ’ ll book a ticket for you.
Is anything lost?
Ha. There won't be a next time.
Where is the next taxi stand?
Hello! What are you reading about in the newspaper?
do you like playing games?
Yes. It's a Korea company and it was built in Beijing five years ago.
Certainly. There are several kinds of music. What do you like to listen to?
I know I was an idiot, But if there is anything I can do to make up, Please do tell me.
Yeah, I guess I am. Working at a university is really suits me.
Do you go to work by train every day?
Yeah? Were they famous because of the ugliness?
How do I know what forms to fill out for unemployment?
Good morning. Do you have a small house for the 18th and 19th of this month?
You see, if you press this red button, the helmet becomes an umbrella.
What would you like today?
I expect to be paid according to my abilities.
Every chance I get. On weekends I ski all day long. Sometimes I even ski at night.
Okay, give me a week and I'll have time to get my pencil real sharp. I should have some new figures from Malaysia by then.
You think it looks nice?
How many and what kind?
Sure. Here it is.
Too risky anyway.It ' s necessary to look before you leap.
We have to cut back on our shopping from now on.
Anyway, the host team seems to fight for the gold.
I ’ m awesome. Well, I guess that ’ s my answer, isn ’ t it.
Are you quite sure?
Alright. Have a nice trip.
My next class is around there.
We do indeed. Such as making trade investments, financial consultancy, and of course the service you requested.
And when do you get home at night?
OK, I will wrap them for you.
I got it. Thank you so much.
I think less than 3 hours. This year I didn't watch any entertainment programs. Too many ads between the programs. I prefer listening to the radio.
Great. Please fill them out on this deposit slip.
Your books are due back two weeks from today.
Sir, our souvenir shop carries all those items, and as a guest you get a discount.
I really love how rain clears the air.
Mom, look! My first piggy bank and it still has money in it!
Yes, I know. I tried that.They don't have anything now. So what can I do?
Welcome to ABC electronics. First, let me go over what we do in the department during a typical workday.
I'm sorry sir. I can't let you pass.
Did you have any kind of punishment in your life and studies?
I ’ d like a twin room, please.
No, they want a special essay. I must write an essay on a particular question they pose.
Good idea. I will take the racket.
No, I rarely smoke. I don't drink, either. I only drink with my family on celebrations or with close friends.
Ha-ha, see you then.
wow, it that your sports car?
How can we help him?
Then you'll have two choices. Train No. 14 leaves at 6:00 p. m, and train No. 22 leaves at 8: 00 p. m.
Sure. Let me help you.
Yes, I always enjoy being with a group of people and chatting with them.
Then you must know Shen Due and Hao Hongbo.
Very good. What is the essence of filing, do you know?
This is for registration. After you have given us your personal details, we'll match these against new jobs as they come in. And we ’ ll contact you when there is a job that suits you.
What kind of personal information?
Yes, you can have a Money Link card. You can also base the account on time deposits. The choice is yours.
OK. We offer a few different kinds of postal saving services. They have different interest rates.
That sounds perfect and just what I'm looking for.
I'd like a coke.
What'll it be today, sir?
No. I won't let you ride a bicycle late at night.
I don't know really.What ' s the fashional color this year?
I'm sorry to say that this room service charge is yours.
It’s nice. I arrived safely.
He said I should come by this morning. He didn't give me a time.He said I could come any time before noon.
How do I apply to an American university?
Mine aren't fixed. Sometimes I do the day shift, sometimes the night shift.
You've got to be joking.
Yeah. She died in her sleep.
What is this setting made of?
If you got laid off or are working a lot fewer hours, you may qualify.
you're welcome. And we have 24 hour reception. Please don't hesitate to call anytime if you have any further questions.
Why don ’ t you try to be clearer about your intentions?
Could you please tell me how I can go job-hunting in the web?
Well, that's not too bad then.
That's good.Well, these are for you. I hope you will like them.
Of course not. You are allowed to attend any lecture, only if there are empty seats for you and you don't disturb the class. In universities, you study in a free and creative environment.
Yes, you definitely will.
How much is it?
No. This is my first time to buy some. You can see that its historical price data is rising now.
That's no problem ; I can take care of that for you.
May I have your order now?
How could I feel easy? I ’ m really pissed.
Yes. We regret we cannot maintain our original price. Since the prices of the raw materials have been raised, we have to adjust the price of our products accordingly.
The CD player is a three-disk player. Here, we'll put a disk in so you can check out the sound. ( He puts a CD into the CD player. )
How much would you like it to be, then?
That's true. Ok, I will think about it.
Yes. You will save 90 cents on each bag.
Tin or bottle?
OK. Let ’ s go!
Not at all. See you.
If that's okay with you.
Oh great! We've been waiting for those. Is everything alright with them?
Do you want any meat today, Mrs Bird?
Have you got any outdoor interests?
There is one next to the post office, round the corner.
When can you begin?
I couldn ’ t either at first, but you get used to it.
Yeah, I'll call later to patch things up.
I like that Kenmore refrigerator.
Silly, you should make sure he does.
Thank you.Steven.That was the most magnificent meal I've had abroad.You ' ll have to let me reciprocate the next time you're in Beijing.
where are you going, Jane?
I think you'll make it if we don't get stuck in a traffic jam.
Yeah, but have you made an appointment ahead?
That ’ s right. Unfortunately, so many people go on the haj each year that there are often stamped and people get killed.
I'm sorry, he's out at the moment.
Sometimes we'll see them, they'll have like sort of conventions of reunions of the pets so, yeah, you get to see them once in awhile.
I'm not sure, he is a manager I think.
Crazy! He locked himself in the room.
Excuse me, Miss. I feel like vomiting. Can I bother you for some ice water, please?
what are your symptoms?
Could you offer us a certificate issued by your Health Department?
You are trying to single-handedly solve one of the world ’ s greatest mysteries, and yet you are oblivious to the fact that you are wrong!
artists have never disappointed me.
Green apples are too sour for me.
Thank you for saying that.
Oh, no. Most of the time I do these things. She is a writer.
Oh yes! Sometimes it rains very heavily.How about here in Beijing?
Here we are. How does it fit?
Can you give me some medicine? It's very painful.
I took the wrong bus.
Mrs.Smith, time has stood still with you!
Fine. Will you please help me with the luggage
Well, as I mentioned before, I think I am easy-going. I enjoy working and talking with people and I'm a responsible person.
Are utilities included in the rent?
Come on! It ’ ll be fun. We play every other Saturday afternoon from May until August.
But the darkest hour is the nearest dawn. I bet you'll soon turn the table.
We are willing to participate in the bid which you advertised in China Daily. Would you please tell me the detail of the tender conditions?
How much are you willing to pay?
I'm not very sure.but I know ruby is less valuable than diamond.
Bob, what are you thinking about?
How many parking tickets have you gotten before?
Sounds like a huge waste of time to me.
is it ok to include the pictures?
Do you really think so? I mean, was I? Er... you... must be disappointed.
You know, all I was trying to do was tell the truth but they obviously didn ’ t take it that way.
No, thank you! I want to take an apartment, not a prison.
You were right! He didn ’ t make the shot!
O. K. Let ’ s compromise, if you agree to only spend $ 75 on books, I ’ ll agree to only spend $ 40 for my next shirt.
I would be happy to. Did you find everything you needed?
i got it. i'll bear it in mind.
Thanks very much. There ’ s thirteen dollars.
He's out of the hospital and up and about again at last.
Who finances the magazine?
No, I've already been to here for three interviews.
You're probably right. I just wish it were that simple. How can I stop feeling so anxious all the time?
Yes, sir. It is Jane. It was given by my English professor when I was at the university.
Get out of my way! This is just like playing video games!
Yes, 123 456 789, Mary from Happy Travel. Have you got that?
Sorry, no. We only take MasterCard or Visa.
Here, take one of these trolleys. What do you want exactly?
And then, after the floors are done, we can start to move our furniture in.
My name is Steven. May I ask whether I can have an interview?
Just a minute. I ’ m putting on my clothes.
Oh, nice. Actually, what is the capital city of Australia?
In my wedding ceremony, where do my parents sit in the church?
what shall we do after the volleyball match?
Really? Where do you work out at?
I bet you had to drag him away.
No, Your Honor, I was not.
Bo, of course not. He is still single.
I really miss the change of seasons like we have in Colorado.but I must admit, this sure is a nice spring day.
you should collect as much information about the company and the position you're applying for as you can. It is important to show that you've done some research into the company. The interviewers Wil
Please fill out the form first.
Really? That's something unexpected. You see, all our exports were strictly inspected before shipment. The goods were in perfect condition when they left.
Yes, I ’ m the manager here. What can I do for you, Madam?
He has introduced the company details to me.
Should I ask Sara to the party?
Okay. One-hundred then. Do you think I will lose it?
Could you spell the surname please?
Oh, I ’ Ve already seen it. I saw it on television last year. It’s an old film, but It’s very good.
OK. Would you like me to get you a cab?
Yes, Mr. Smith?
Thank you. Here is four hundred yuan.
What systems have you worked on?
What do you think is the real danger man faced in space?
Yes. In fact, one of the categories is on foreign language films.
and what if it doesn't work out, right?
I hope the teacher decides to curve our test grades.
Wow! I'm impressed. So, what's in the cards for future training? Will it be in-house or off-site?
Kobe Bryant and Shaquille O ’ Neal, they are the Los Angeles Lakers ’ star players.
That's a big change from 25 %! 10 % is beyond my negotiating limit. Any other ideas?
Yesterday was April the first.
Nice to meet you, too.
I want some exciting. Which is more fun, the roller coaster or the ferris wheel?
One is a small-size Nike in red and the other is a big one in black. The two are tied together.
There is a great restaurant directory here in the weekend section of the newspaper.
why is that?
Yes, I would like to check in.
Why don't you make yourself a sandwich or something?
I ’ m sorry.She isn ’ t in at the momment.She will come back at half past nine.Can I take a message for her?
That's our pleasure. Mr. Ross, your visit leaves gorgeous memory here. And I hope Mr.Halmiton, the president of your company can also have the chance to visit our company soon. Remember me to him, please.
Alright, I'm twisting it around. You tell me when to stop.
ok, then count me in. where will we stay?
25 mm diameter.
Hi, I was wondering if I could get my test results from the other day.
That is OK. Here is 20 dollars and you can keep the change.
Hi, What's for lunch?
How was your trip to America?
I understand your position.
I'd like to have lunch in my room.
How often do you go back to visit them?
What kind of drink would you like with that?
How about 1:30?
You begin by applying for a corporate charter. And then stockholders hold a meeting to organize the corporation, an individual has limited liability and the right.
No, I don't mind in the least. I want to do something of my own. What about you?
I'll bring you one as soon as I find one available.
It doesn't look good at all.
Religion has been playing an indispensible part in Harvard history as well as the U. S.
the conference are always delightful.
Yeah, that would let us know what would work best.
Yes, I'd like to make a reservation for eight tonight.
No, but I have database programming experience and network knowledge.
What's on tomorrow at that time?
Your left brake light is out.
Better late than never.
Wow! What a beautiful scenic spot! It's so open. And just breathe that fresh air, you can almost taste its freshness.
Mum, can I finish my homework later?
Help you in the kitchen, I don ’ t feel like it.
Yes, we have various sauces. What about the gravy?
It’s definitely my mother. And, her mother is definitely the matriarch of the bigger family.
You can always take it again.
Of course! You can't go to Paris without going to their famous art gallery! I was surprised by how small the Mona Lisa was though.
Is it all right for me to come in now. Mr. Sutcliffe?
I tell you I must go!
When you finish completing the request form, we will order and let you know when the supplies are here. Have a great day!
He said he had to get rid of them. They were stolen.
Is a shop there?
We are going to have a drink while we are waiting. Please let the hostess know that she can find us there.
But she took her luggage away with her.
I am going to buy a new air conditioner for my parents. Oh, It’s two o ’ clock. I must go now.
I'm here on business.
We have discussed it and decided that at the moment we would like the salaries to be paid into the employees's accounts, whether they are currently with this bank or not.
There are different things you can do.For one, the university offers a special free course on note-taking.You should go to the course. Also, I am pretty good at taking notes. I can help you on this exam. I will photocopy all my notes, and you can compare them to your notes.Then maybe you will see what kinds of things to write down.
Good, I like it.
Oh, yes. We all sat on the grass, and Margaret played the guitar and sang Greek songs.
I ’ d like to wish you every success in your new venture.
Well, I'm not sure of his name, but I know it's going to be his farewell performance.
You're promising. Just follow your dream and never give up.
Great. I will look forward to hearing from you. And do I need the second interview?
Yeah, like it very much. My name has become a part of me.
Okay. Thank you. I understand now.
Well, first of all, it needs a new engine, which is extremely expensive.
How about this one? It’s the latest design, simple but elegant.
I prefer it to working independently. I think most people do.
I understand, Ms. Fairbanks.
Hello, madam. Would you like to take a look at our products? They are high-tech items.
No, the Chinese company has that all worked out. With the paperwork you receive with the shipment, you should be good to go.
Yes, they are ready to go.
I'm not going to buy one.
$ 150 including the cloth.
How about Thursday?
I went a long time ago, before they built the new train that can take you there.
What did you get yourself into?
The players are scrambling to get the ball. Vargas gets to first base and he ’ s still going! The outfielder throws it to second! Vargas slides! He ’ s safe!
Yes. Can you help me remember how to spell ' beautiful '?
How to adjust?
Come on, you sound like my Mom.Look at it, it's beautiful!
Yesterday I met Mary, and she told me her husband often made pass at his secretary.
The final examination will be held at the end of this month. Have you made good preparation?
I live downtown, with my parents.
Hi, Francis, morning! How are you doing today?
As suppose you reback at 10
Eight to twelve in the morning, two to six in the afternoon.
Yes, I will need it. Thanks.
And how many pieces did you have?
You get what you pay for, considering the high quality, our price is very reasonable.
Thank you. The payment needs to be in the form of cash or a cashier ’ s check.
He's out of his office.
No, not this time. We went there last time.
Yes. I once worked in a small company for one year.
Besides steamed fish, what else are you good at cooking?
What can I check out?
I'm wondering if she has boyfriend.
Hi, Mr. Sandals. I'm Michelle, at your service. When do you need the room?
No problem, what class would you like to take?
I broke Mom's vase.
Good evening, sir. can I help you?
Do you think the plane will leave without me?
Um, I ’ m just having a look around. It’s my girlfriend ’ s birthday tomorrow. I'm trying to find her something.
I'd like to open a savings account. Can you tell me how to do it?
Hi! Good morning, Sarah!
Hello, Mr. Brown.
You paid 50 dollars for each ticket? That's a huge premium over the regular price.
Are you completely out?
You won't play online games full of violence, will you?
Wow, American football is more exciting than I thought.
I'm sorry, we cannot make corrections on these. You'll have to bring another one with the correct amount, I'm afraid.
I want to see a dentist.
Would you like to come?
What about your parking spot?
Chinese, maths, English, chemistry, physics, biology and so on.
April might be nice. It is far enough away to make the necessary arrangements.
But now you are rich.
I don't mind. By contrast, I quite like the circumstances, as I can see a variety of people here, who can always give me tremendous inspiration. And the most important thing is coffee as it is my life.
I'll have a taxi for you momentarily, sir.
You made a good choice.
I would like to make one right now if I can.
I am too.
You need a holiday. That's what's the matter.
That's something else! Maybe I'll return it to them.
I am afraid shipment by early May would be too late for us. Our customs formalities are quite complicated, and it takes time to distribute the goods to the farmers in our country. The fertilizers must be delivered before April, or else we can't be in time for the spring sowing.
No, it hasn't. It's very dirty.
Yes, we have some Chinese medicine for common cold.
How far do we have to go?
Yes, I have worked in a bank for the last five years.
For six months, please.
Let's go.
No, I don ’ t. I ’ m too afraid of making mistakes in English. I don ’ t want to be laughed at.
I'd like a permanent wave. By the way, do you have any picture of the latest hairstyle? I ' Ve been in this style for so long that I want a change this time.
The museum doesn't open today.
Your idol! Wow! You're even better at finding stuff than me!
What sort of experience do you have?
that ’ s a good idea. Do you know anyone who has done that before?
Why do you think you are qualified for this position?
I'd love to help if I can.
Good afternoon. Is this the Roley Hotel?
Sounds nice. We will take this, two bowls of shrimp rolls.
I think whiskey will be a good choice.
maybe you should think about getting a round helmet ; they're better.
Love stories? More like one-night-stands.
Anything you want. They have both casual and formal styles.
Hmm. I have the same problem. When I leave work, It’s always rush hour. So the buses are always crowded.
Hello, Elizabeth. How are you?
Good afternoon, ABC Incorporated. How many I direct your call?
Sure. Rather than eating, having western food is more about western culture.
Those are money bags, and they represent your financial situation.
What sport do you like the most?
Well, all the brothers and sisters get together and fill the Christmas stockings for the litt 1e kids.
Oh dear. That ’ s terrible. What was in your wallet?
I need this magazine.
Hi, where have you been?
Me too. Daniel, look at your left side. Can you see the Air Force Ants?
Hi Bob, how ’ s business?
Oh, no. Carnations are not very elegant.Artificial flowers have no passion.
Hello, there. You are looking a little confused ; can I help you with something?
Yes, I ’ Ve come in apply for the position as head of claim department.
Good thing, we took a taxi.
That's easy. It's important to have the saddle high enough so that your legs can extend fully when you are on your bicycle.
when did it first break down?
Oh, that is a shame. He is really hard working.
Yeah, is that all?
906 Ottawa street. My name is David Yang. My phone number is 713-786-0234.
Watch out! You're too close to the fire place.
well, we could go to the newsagent ’ s to pick up the Sunday paper, go to the butcher ’ s to pick up a chicken for a roast dinner, and to the chemist ’ s to pick up your prescription from the doctor.
Our usual supplier has let us down and I ’ Ve been looking through your parts catalogue. I need fifty GT670s. How soon can you deliver?
Your late fees come to $ 24.50.
Tell me about it. If I was as small as her, I wouldn't think about going on a diet.
John hasn't turned up and Stefan is ill. Do we have anyone on stand-by?
no, not at all. Which one would you like--the New York Times or the Guardian?
I have both, but I usually use my car to get to school.
My pleasure, bye!
Well, first of all, I would be able to teach them everything they learn in school in a more relaxed and fun way. I also think that having a one-on-one class is much better since you can focus more on his or her strengths or weaknesses.
Which place are you most interested in?
What kind of volunteer work?
12:05. And it takes only 20 minutes to get to the station by bus.
I can only read the first three lines.
You are really a hen-pecked husband.
Where do you keep the dishes, Baker?
Either can be done, though we usually quote on CIF basis.
Let me have a look. Everything I do I do it for you 、 Unchained melody 、 My heart will go on. Oh, and I ’ d like to try Everything I do I do it for you.
How about going for swim around 10
It’s right under you! Kathy!!!
It’s going to take a moment for me to cancel your account.
Did you tell others that we are getting married soon? You have such a big mouth!
I know how you feel. I had a similar problem with a landlord a few years ago. Fortunately, the one we have now is very nice.
Security, Dan, security! You can never be too safe you know! A lot of sickos out there. Just the other day they caught that peeping tom red handed! Had a high power telescope and binoculars by his window.
Don't hesitate. That's a very famous university which a lot of students are longing to attain.
Are there any hobbies you do?
Yes. These hobbies have indeed enriched my life
When I was your age, my parents didn ’ t have central heating like you do! We had a furnace in the center of the living room and that was it. We used it to cook, heat the house and even dry our clothes! We never caught a cold. You should be grateful!
I beg your pardon.
The ref signals the start of the game and here we go. Ribero serves and China quickly receives the ball. Chen bumps it to the setter, and... a very nice set by Chen!
Another glass of beer, will you?
I'll have a tomato juice and some iced tea.
Glad to hear it.
How was your summer vacation?
Okay then. You are the younger customer here ever.
The price is fine if you give me free security system and free carpet mats.
Have you ever tried chocolate-covered strawberries with champagne?
You know how to draw and paint?
No, but my girlfriend has mono.
I changed my strategy around too. I invest in good companies now.
No, not at all. It looks really classy on you. Where did you pick that up?
That is the down side of an office romance. I hope their work is not affected by the emotional stress. The boss must be very annoyed if that will be the case.
Wow, this is drop-dead gorgeous.
Except housework, that is.
Here is our number. Call us when you are ready to come.
Hi. I would like to get an internet plan for my house.
Just give me an estimated figure for an order of 100 units.
do you have anything to declare?
The election is this Tuesday.
that's great. I knew you'd do a good job as a manager.
I know a lot of people wouldn ’ t agree with that.
Your budget is a good idea.
So you suppose you deserve a salary raise.
What position do you play?
You can see that it keeps the original color of the tea leaves very well.
Do you need a single apartment, or is this for two people?
Oh, it's rice rolls with fried shrimp inside.
People always seem to make jokes as a way to deal with unfortunate situations.
Ah? Really? That stinks!
Thanks so much. Miss, I believe I ordered my eggs scrambled, and these are fried.
I think that's what I want. How much is it?
Yes. Are you traveling here?
OK. I'll go right now. By the way, do you think I ’ ll have to stay in the hospital for long?
That ’ s all you ever think about, food! Oh, I think the bride ’ s coming now! She looks gorgeous.Wait, what ’ s she doing? Where ’ s she going?
You liar, I saw you again in the inn. I bet you don't want to work at all.
Who will meet you at the airport?
Friendliness and a good attitude are also very important.
Oh, there is a supermarket not far from here. But there is also a tea house around the corner, where you can get tea, taste tea and get a tea set as well.
Let me have a look at your boarding pass. It's E - 6, the sixth seat by the aisle.
Well as we know nothing comes out of a can. We have years of experience tailoring workshops to the specific needs of your company. We can hone in on your problem areas and have your employe
How about drinks? Would you like beer or wine?
No, I have no girlfriend.
Yes. We charge 50 cents for iced water.
Fine, Mr. Emory. Would next Monday at 4:00 o ’ clock be all right for you?
You moved to a new place?
Can I go to my room now?
We'll also discuss the personnel plan for the second half of the year.
I can ask for some advice from him.
Good afternoon. I've brought the extra blanket you asked for.
Are you kidding? That's the stupidest gift one can buy. I don't want to get a tie.
So are you planning on cooking it?
I really appreciate you doing this for me.
Yeah, that's it. Thank you.
It seems so strange to be here, burying you, but it's not you.
Yes, I like the job though. Sometimes, I help other people in the office if they ’ re having trouble online.
Did they tell you why they arrested you?
He's awful! He telephoned me four times yesterday, and three times the day before yesterday. He telephoned the office yesterday morning and yesterday afternoon. My boss answered the telephone.
I'm due to check out tomorrow, but I'd like to extend my stay by two days.
How much shall I pay?
I believe it's certainly for real. It without question has suffered a lot of delays. But there's hardware sitting on the pad right now and it's due to go off in December. It is a reality. It has just taken longer to get literally off the ground.
I know it does seem a little daunting, but once you get used to it, it will save you a lot of time and trouble.
What kind of flowers would you like?
See. Great minds think alike.
And after the meeting?
Oh, hi Pam. When did you get back from Canada? How was it?
You're new at this, huh?
Yes indeed. It has a very strict inspection so it takes a pretty long Be for everyone.
Yes, there are many famous corporations.
Very impressive. And I do like the leading actress who has an amazing voice.
No problem. How much? If I don't have enough on me, I'll pop over to the ATM and draw some.
It's a small blue case and it's got a zip. There's a label on the handle with my name and address on it.
well, to be honest with you, Chinese food is really different from western food.
I tried to introduce myself to them when they moved in, but they were so arrogant that I didin't want to ever talk to them again!
How about there?
But, I don't believe in taking pills to get enough vitamins.
It seems that you don't like him.
Are there any other questions on the form?
What about restaurants and entertainment?
I want to make a long distance phone call.
No, but there is one downstairs, which my daughter used some years ago.
Let's call it a deal. Hope to see you again soon. Keep in touch then. Byebye.
Give me enough for a skirt, will you?
Which route are you interested in?
You can buy some of these nice butterflies.
What are the requirements that you need to do the job?
That sounds like a plan to me.
I don ’ t know. Do you want to go bowling at the new bowling alley on 1st street?
I'm finished. What do you think?
Please, Mummy. Everybody else in my class keeps a pet. Please, I'll take care of it. It's a good kitty. It'll not bring you any trouble.
That ’ s great! I ’ ll go there right now and speak with the boss.
oh, I should have thought of my brother's baby girl. Maybe I'll just have a dog instead of an exotic pet.
I don ’ t think It’s very nice. And my father doesn ’ t like it. But my mother likes it very much. So we often come here.
Would you like to make a donation?
I am very grateful for your advice.
Did you do anything that might have aggravated your tooth?
So how have you been?
So, what do we do now?
Yeah... actually, we haven't hung out at all recently. You seem sort of under the weather. Is there something going on?
Thank you, Mrs Wu.
At least you have obtained a very basic understanding of the game, haven't you? I think it is perfect for boosting intelligence, cultivating personality and flexible learning. Every intellectual wishing to gain any insight into Chinese culture should learn to play Go.
No, it is the original one.
I look forward to more of the concert.
Can't we go to McDonald's first?
good night, sleep tight ; don ’ t let the bed bugs bite!
Okay Rebecca, well I think you ’ Ve given me a clear impression of your positive qualities, but let ’ s talk a little bit about your weaknesses.
Have you started planning your christmas vacation yet?
Straight ahead to the traffic lights, left and then right.
Yes. Very wonderful.
Yeah, it's the last world-wide horti-cultural exposition in the century, and one of the grand festivities of cross-century significance held by the China's tourism industry.
I couldn't do that. I have an important meeting to go to today.
Susan, can you tell me in a nutshell what the retail market is like in China?
May I ask why you didn't think of applying for a credit card with us sooner? Most young people jump at the chance.
Ok, I ’ ll see you later.
it's more than special. You can find as many kinds of animals as you can put a name to and more.
No champion can remain at the top for ever.
I want to go jogging.
Nice day, isn't it?
The Pyramids are amazing! Millions of gigantic stones... each one perfect...
Oh! I've almost forgot the location was transferred to the A county in the east of the city.
Well, then, is it convenient to leave your phone number so that I can inform you as soon as we restock it?
Oh, around seven o'clock, I suppose.
It's said you will go abroad to pursue your graduate studies.
Well, sir. May I have your room number?
Yes, I've been thinking about visiting you. I hope to get some advice from you.
I am sorry to say this, sir, but you should've been more careful.
I'm looking for it, but you see, the market shard for jobs, too.
How much will that run me?
Pretty well. I don't know if I'll get the promotion or not, but I feel good about it.
I can ’ t believe Obama is our President.
No! He hit me first.
Who will pay for these things?
We do value your business. I think I can offer a further discount – say 5 %?
Any fresh food, live plants, or animals?
By the way, do you know if he has a girl friend?
I knew I shouldn't have shown you my new toy...
Stand on the chair, Pig Tom. Use your brain.
Not really. But it has puzzled me for a long time.
Yes, they were thirty percent off.
That ’ s when the masseuse walks on your back and massages you with her feet.
Not very long from the looks of it!
Yes, I'm missing a sweater. I sent it in the laundry yesterday, but my laundry was returned without it.
Strange looking handle on that coffee mug, isn't it?
Instead of tackling somebody, you just have to touch them with two hands, or if it is flag football, grab the flag that the ball carrier is wearing.
Tell me how much it will be, and I can tell you if it's okay.
Certainly, Mr. Smith.
Thank you so much for shopping here. Here's your change and receipt.
No, I often go there with my friends.
Do you have any tables?
What kind of gas does this car take?
No, I'm afraid that isn't possible. You must wait until maturity before you cash them.
Yes. But I like a girl with a nice personality.
Very well, I will.
I honestly don ’ t know, but we will freeze payment on these charges.
I'm a junior now, and my GPA is 3.92.
Pretty good. How's your business going, Kevin?
That's too long.How long does it take to reach Taiwan by airmail?
Well, I am worried to death right now! There is still no news from the company for me.
You could have tried to explain to him about the new programmers.
Where is he? Is he in danger?
Yes. They should check the elevator regularly. I have to give them something to remember about, and they should also equip fire extinguishers in the building.
I understand. They think a tornado might come.
Take it easy. I'm sure you will gain enough experience while working as a marketing assistant. I hope you haven't been given much trouble in the job.
Where are you living now?
Kim! I'm here! I brought all my old maternity clothes plus Dave and Alice's baby clothes!
The creditor's equity is the same as liabilities.
it's my mother. She's sick and needs someone to take care of her. I'm the only one who can do it.
Uniforms, sis, no more worrying about appearances!
It doesn't matter. I still can go out and buy a beer.
Sure. We have one on the second floor.
Yes, the sugar was burnt during the dry-cleaning process. And there you go.
Thank you, sir.Enjoy your stay with us.
Actually, I ’ m interested in all of them. The more choices we have, the harder to make a decision.
I appreciate that.
Yes, job. If you ’ re going to live on your own, you have to pay for rent and everything else.
Thank you for your information. As you know, our corporation is a state-operated one. We always trade with foreign countries on the basis of equality and mu - dual benefit. Establishing business relations between us will be to our mutual benefit. I have no doubt that it will bring about closer ties between us.
The front brake?
Nope. We just hope our employees will make profit for us.
I see, so this can really cut down on time and centralise management. Interesting...
The main responsibility of the stewardess is to make the passengers relaxed and happy during the flight. And good service is also important.
It wasn't that loud.
We are able to do credit investigations globally. You have no need to worry.
Every class reunion is organized by the president and council and anything our class does for the school in later years is headed by the president.
I am glad that that works out ; can you find my office?
I checked it out of the rental library. It only costs five cents a day.
I'd like to withdraw 35,000 RIB from my Corporate Account.
Let me have a look. Well, it lists some shows that will be on next week.
How much do apartments cost around here?
Do be patient, Honey. Let's do it slowly and correctly.
I'm out of work at the moment.
Ha-ha. I get it. That's funny. Your cousin's a real sarcastic lady.
I ’ m going to be moving out soon.
Afternoon, please, if that's possible.
Let me get $ 150 back.
It's amazing. And when did he begin to play in the NBA?
Not yet... I got an MP3 player and a set of stereo headphones.
I'd like the lasagna, please.
Why do you want to quit your present company?
What time had you chosen?
You can take it in a couple weeks.
My father likes to go, and I told him I will go with him.
really? I haven't heard of it.
I'd like to buy some postcards of Beijing.
David, stop dreaming. It’s time to do your homework.
Yes, it is. And develop them as glossy as possible.
Blackjack.We can play blackjack. And I will gamble one-hundred, or maybe two-hundred dollars.
Of course. The changing rooms are over there.
Will you supply spare parts if we want them?
Why aren't you going out?
Let ’ s see, ” we would e grateful if you could please send related materials to our office prior to our meeting. ” It looks like... hey, was there anything else sent along with this letter?
Which account would you like to open?
Wow, sounds chaotic... two thousand people in the streets carrying picket signs and shouting slogans. What gave them the motivation to finally organize and call management on the substandard working conditions?
I would apply my specialty and experience to my job and gradually move up to the management level in this company.
Of course! The hotel has a stable with beautiful stallions for a very romantic horseback ride along the country trail. You can also go fishing to the nearby lake or visit the local vineyard.
We all are looking for different things in an instructor. I hope I've helped you.
Yes. It’s nice. Can I try it on?
Yes, but sometimes he is just not reasonable.
What does your work consist of exactly?
Ok. What's your number?
Miss Lu, have you got any experience in restaurant service?
I want this letter registered. There is something valuable inside.
I'm sorry I'm late. I overslept. Is the manager here today?
Thanks. Do you have a credit card, sir?
Just try to be a little more punctual in the future.
Which seasons do you like best?
Do you want to sent this letter by ordinary or registered mail?
I'm sorry, Julia! I can't get home early this evening.
What other foreign language do you speak?
That ’ s all the time we have for today, but join us next time where we ’ ll be going over how to make the perfect lasagna! Till next time!
Some other time then?
An ordinary one will do.Would you put me under a hot dryer after that? I'm in a hurry.
OK. How do you like your money, madam?
Hi, again. Can I get you some more fruit?
Oh, yeah? I wonder who is going to give Jane away at the wedding. You know her father passed away several years ago.
What ’ s that building opposite us?
You mean you're going to ask her out in a note? You big chicken!
Are you being served, madam?
And you can still go ' window shopping ' just like in a real shopping mall.
All right. I'll take you at your word.
what do you mean?
What do you do in your spare time?
Yes. I'd like an Italian soup to start with and then some fried noodles.
yes, for the most part. It doesn't feel as bad as my other ailments, anyway.
Everything's great. And you?
It must be very convenient and pretty quick.
Not very expensive.
How long is the guarantee?
Of course. More than that, you have Italy pizza, English steak, kimchi and local specialties.
What kind of job are you interested in?
He has no sense.
Oh, what about Saturday? Are you free then?
Yes and maybe a jacket in case it gets cool.
I can see digital video products are quickly going mainstream with their plunging price.
Hi, An. How are you?
Hey, let's go to the night market after work tonight.
Yes, but we can ’ t deny that animals are vulnerable, defenseless, and are completely at the mercy of human beings.
I will be sending the assistant manager to check it out. May we look at it this morning?
Well, I heard that if you drink enough beer, you can speak foreign languages better...
Have you had any type of bug lately?
Who are the members of your family?
Whole Foods has a lot of organic foods?
I won ’ t beat around the bush. Sir, I would like a raise. I currently have three companies after me and so I decided to talk to you first.
You look very professional in the suit.
thank you, but I'm nervous. I don't know what to do.Could you tell me what should I do before an interview?
I hope I can practice self-control again.
Thank you. Ah! But this is in French. Would you mind giving me the English menu?
Sure. I'm learning Chinese through songs.
Because I'm no sucker ; only suckers go to the end of the line. It's as simple as that, lady.
You seem to be very hesitant about doing things.
Honey, can you set the table?
OK. If he wants to make any changes, minor alternations can be accepted. Let me know what happens.
I ’ m sorry, but you can ’ t take the items until you can buy them.
Well, I think you should pay upon arrival.
Then the M-Zone will be suitable.
Of course we can. We can provide the quantity you ask for.
While you should not omit your weak points, they need to be described appropriately
Good evening, Mr. Smith.
Ok. Can I have your name, please?
Don't worry.The bus will arrive soon.
even if I ’ m only sick for one day?
Hello, Can I speak to Tom, please?
He used to be a hero during the war time and everyone respect him.
I envy her and also I hate her at the same time.
My watch always gains ten minutes a day.
Okay. What ’ s your name, please?
But why is it too late? It's Saturday night.You have nothing to do tomorrow. Why not stay out and drink with us?
You gotta have some better deodorant.
I don't think so. Dick has been on the ball and never does things like that.
Would you like a piece of birthday cake?
There was a time when both the clerical assistant and the secretary resigned at the same time. I then had to handle their work temporarily. The workload was incredibly heavy. So I started to set priorities for the jobs and hired part-time staff to handle routine work. Finally, I managed to keep the operation smooth until we found someone to fill the vacancy.
Yes, I have been working in Lush Insurance Company for four years.
Yes, she will. At the moment, the exchange rate is very favorable, so she should try to go as soon as possible, while It’s cheaper.
Would you be interested in joining me?
Yes, it's much better than yesterday.
Do you like ice skating?
I don't know how I'm going to get home.
Do you have this design with only one breast pocket?
The song you hear now.
Yes, I did. I got 600 in TOEFL and 2, 300 in GRE.
That's much higher than I expected. Can you come down a bit?
Thank you for your compliment. I bought this PC with my first-month salary. I am getting to know the on-line trade.
So, will I be able to find this book?
How can you be so sure?
Mr. Brown, I'd like to talk with you about something that is getting to be a problem. I'd like, if possible, to see it settled at this meeting.
We're waiting in line to get one of Master Li's Chinese couplets. I got one last year and I had good luck all year!
There are instructions posted on the copier.
July 20? But I think it should be June 20.
No kidding! I can't believe this. You devil!
It looks like there are a lot of people inside.
Hang on. are you sure you want to keep a non-traditional pet?
Can you tell me the time? I've got an appointment at 8: 30.
Thank you. Have a pleasant stay.
I was looking forward to something a bit more substantial. As you know, we have long-time cooperation.
And will I go up to the front to have the bread and wine?
Can I keep the apartment if I pay my rent in full?
don't worry. I think in most cases, children are the glue that keeps a family together.
I want one pound of ground beef.
Do you want to type that letter?
Where are they from?
I think we should discourage people from using their private cars. They produce too much pollution!
But I like its color.
Eight yuan twenty cents.
Yes, please. But I suppose I'll have to open an account with you first, right?
That ’ s not right, somebody should do something.
Yes, since 1993, I ’ Ve been employed as a clerk in the Beijing Branch of the DHAK Trading Corporation.
How about the tires?
How much dose that cost?
Thanks, Professor. I've got it covered!
It's hard to say, because the branches are located in diversity different countries, cultural and social influences will definitely play a part in the success of the product in the various markets.
That's what Pam said.
Maybe, but in the meantime why not help me find the remote control for my garage door?
They were supposed to, but so far nobody ’ s turned up, and I ’ m left on my own to do the work. This is the first break I ’ Ve had all day.
What movies have you seen lately?
The Queen Street, I guess.
I know it. WebTracker is playing for keeps. They'll go for our jugular if we give them the chance.
How do you spend your day, Helen?
They should. This holiday is about remembering our war dead. But people these days think it's just a holiday for summer sales and cookouts!
How are you doing?
Me too. I feel very thirsty as well.
Thank you. I think I should also have a look at the Internet to see if anyone's got a sublet.
Yeah, I'm worried. If it's like this tomorrow, our big outdoor party will have to be canceled.
Yes, could you show me to your coat section?
Could you do something to advance your shipment?
Here you are, Mr. Richard. This is the cream and this is the sugar. If there ’ s anything else you ’ d like, please don ’ t hesitate to tell me.
Suit wrote me a letter.
All right, Mr. Green.
Of course. I will show you the fitting room.
Are you willing to drive yourself if the job requires?
Medicine. In my country, that certainly has great prestige.
That's right.Thank you.
you should probably call the IT department and have them check your computer for virus.
Excuse me, sir. I can't find my baggage. Here is my claim tag.
I love to dance the fast music.
Well, maybe. But I like the little kid who played Manakin Skywalker. I can't imagine anyone else playing that role.
Allow me to introduce my self.My name is Jack Black, manager of the company.
They ’ re ok. I ask them to swim 500 meters each day. That ’ s 20 lengths of the swimming pool. They ’ re not very fast, but that ’ s ok. I just want them to build their strength up and keep in shape.
Tom Hanks is always my favorite film star.
Yes. 6710121 3. Benjamin.
Damn it! I'm injured here. We could wait all day for the police.
so what happened in the meeting?
I think my fiancee may favor the sweater in the shop window. Would you like to help me look for any skirts that go with this sweater?
Yes, I have obtained an accountant's qualification and a driver's license.
I'll see you later then.
Oh. It’s awful, but it can ’ t be helped.
What size pan were you thinking of?
Did you notice the way that she avoided making eye contact with us while she talked?
Bright colors, smooth material, exquisite craftsmanship, soft lines... Darling, it looks elegant on you! It can't be any cheap stuff. Something around two hundred, I guess.
No problem. I'll wrap it up for you now.
Yes, a very pleasant journey indeed. Thank you.
So tell me, what's the difference between the Board of Directors, the CEO, and the stockholders? They all seems ot be the same group of people to me...
Just look around? Nah, that ’ s boring.
I would like to open a savings account.
That's exactly how I felt.
What's your weight?
yes. I'm pretty out-going and friendly.
Miss Levin. Nice to meet you.
With that dress I'd say your white diamond necklace would look perfect.
A single room with a bath, if possible.
Aunt Shirley, I heard the Yuan Miao Festival is the name for the festival. Why did it get its name?
It seems that they really enjoy trying to go faster, higher and further.
Do you think they'd hire me?
About half an hour.
I want a suit of workmanship and suitable for formal meetings.Would you recommend some brands?
No, It’s 3725019281.
They have anything you want.
To be frank, a letter of credit would increase the cost of my import. When I open a letter of credit with a bank, I have to pay a deposit. That will tie up my money and add to my cost.
What sort of price are you asking?
You know what? I don't have any change for you.
Oh, my god! I look so old. I look as if I were 40. I think it's time for some plastic surgeries. I'm tired of these wrinkles and sagging skin.
he is an extrovert while she is an introvert. He likes parties while she hates them.
How about another beer?
Hi, I'd like to return this radio.
Let me look in the file then. Maybe we received it.
It’s a rash. I ’ d better take you to see the doctor. How did you get that bruise on your leg?
Oh, he's really reserved, normally. But, from what I hear, he's got lots of problems.
I'm very touched, and I can't help bursting into tears at the wedding.
Wow! That's really great news. How often does the magazine come out?
Do you need to file copies of the letters before sending them?
I like the design, but don't particularly care for the colour. Do you have that in other colours, too?
Awfully sorry, sir. There are no rooms available now.
An hour ago, I bought this vase with my tourist.
This way, please. Our car is waiting over there.
Yes. MSN, QQ, Skype, Google Talk, Ali wangwang, everything, so that I'll be in touch with all friends and relatives.
What was the date of the reservation?
Such an eye! The true hazel eye-and so brilliant! Regular features, open countenance, with a complexion, Oh! What a bloom of full health, and such a pretty height and size ; such a firm and upright figure! There is health, not merely in her bloom, but in her air, her head, her glance. One hears sometimes of a child being ' the picture of health ' ; now, she always gives me the idea of being the complete picture of grown-up health. She is loveliness itself.
Is that right? This sure beats the old one?
Hi, Linda, I'm just calling to invite you to a dinner party tomorrow evening.
I need some mascara. Do you have good thickening mascara?
You are so paranoid! Not everybody is a crook, you know.
Actually, my doctor said the same thing.
When are you going to make it?
How much is the salary?
Oh my gosh. Damn... screw the court, I would burn down their store.
Sorry! The stretch for that octave is always hard to make.
Can I have a look?
I'm not exactly prepared right now. How about I go back to the office, get the relevant information and come back before closing?
Well, let's see.Why don't we go dancing for a change? We haven't done that for a long time.
Excuse me.Could you tell me how to return to the Hilton Hotel? I am afraid I lost my way.
Oh, do you know why? Actually, It’s easy. Because I always exercise. My exercise, I think, is very hard. I often feel very good after conquering these difficulties. I feel alive!
Oh, that's the very thing I need.
That's not a problem. Have a nap if you can. You don't know how tight the schedule is for this business trip.
Could you tell me the time?
Of course, it's my pleasure. We'll quote you the lowest price prevailing.
That's not easy for me.
That's fine. Let's get on the bus.
Yes, but that'll probably take about half an hour. You should just take a cab.
May I see the agreement first?
I like the pier too, because it's beautiful at night.
No, but thanks for offering, actually could you bring some fold-up chairs for people if you have any? I am afraid not everyone's going to have a seat, do you have any?
It's 9 - A in the middle part, a window seat too.
What on earth are you talking about?
My wife has been pregnant for 7 months.
One more second, sir. Your reservation is now verified, so all I need is your phone number.
The software of computer is all the programmes inside the computer that allow you to use the computer to do things.
I like ferris wheel more.
Is it the one on Xi Shut Street?
Did he let you ride it?
Let's see. We spent 700 dollars for our home loan payment, 400 on groceries, 75 on utilities, 250 on gasoline, 100 on books and 300 on entertainment last month.
Yes, it might be an advantage for you. You are a foreigner, after all.If they're alright roommates, you could learn a lot from them.
Oh, damn. There ’ s another traffic jam on the highway.
Oh, he wanted to know what time I got up this morning and if I bad a bath or a shower you know, things like that.
Well, the Riverside Mall has 200 stores in it, including four major department stores.
The big one or the small one?
Oh, really? What do you do there exactly?
Cats chase mice, don't they?
Hello. Dr. Brown ’ s Dental Office. How can I help you?
Yes. I found a very good job down here.
Would you like to order now?
Can I pay by card?
The notice you received is a 30 - day notice to vacate.
Will the blood test hurt?
Excuse me. My name is Dan Ford. I have an appointment with the dentist at 3:30.
really? What do you usually do online?
Yummy! Yummy! Eat more!
Let ’ s see... These numbers are off the charts! What's going on here!
I'll bet.
Hello, this is Wang Lu and I am calling to confirm my reservation.
I'm going to check out tomorrow but will be back in a week's time. Can I leave my luggage here?
I can't tell yet. I haven't got beyond the first chapter.
That's seems obvious enough. Then what about the software?
how about this red dress? I think it would really suit you.
Yes, that's what I plan to do. Except I won't make the chicken soup.Right now I don't think I could swallow more than a spoonful of it.
Alright, come here and lay flat on your back. Let ’ s suppose this young woman has stopped breathing. We must lift the person ’ s chin so that we clear a pathway for air to get into the lungs. Then we place our mouth over the other person ’ s mouth and blow air two or three times, like this.
Our place is spotlessly clean, compared with others.
Thank you again.
Exactly. You are permitted to effect and early payment in part or in full with the consent of our bank.
Yes. I ’ m calling from Westwood and Westwood Attorneys. I need to make a reservation for Mr. Alex Brent.
Yes that ’ s right. I ’ Ve always enjoyed studying. My friends say I ’ m a bit of a bookworm, but my father always pushed us to succeed academically.
You may have a little bit of a dry cough, but you will feel much better.
It was me. I am so sorry.
Yes. I think it is now a moderate volume.
My name is Janice. Well, I book this ticket for Nova, the marketing manager of Pineapple Computer Company. Where can I get the flight ticket?
what kinds do you have?
Mom, don't worry about me, I can do it.
I know! She could sell fridges to Eskimos!
Should I be in touch with my bank to tell them to get the loan papers ready?
Yes it is, better than I expected it would be.The presenters have been first rate.Is this the first conference you've been to?
You'd just let sleeping dogs lie.
Yes. Shall we take a break now?
Yes, we have a coffee machine and some other beverages in the break room.
Yes, that's right. That's the poster of the The Witch.
They're on special offer today.
Do you have any experience using weights?
How much time do you need?
Now that take this seat. Do you see those piles of red diplomas on the desks on the stage?
I know I'm late. I'm sorry. I tried to call you to tell you, but your phone seems to be disconnected.
Wow. Look at this. So delicate and beautiful. Did ancient Chinese people really wear them?
But it used to be ignored by many people.
What a heavy snow! Look! The water is frozen.
OK. And anything else I can do for you?
Have you filled out an application form?
sure. My mom has been working on our family tree for years. She ’ s always updating it.
Yes. I'd like to send a $ 20 money order.
Great. Then call me and let me know if she's free.
You are right, boss, but I need specific confirm to keep the future work better.
Give it to me. I need to use it.
Well, an important part of the duties of a secretary, I think, is to do well the preparation work for the meeting.
How about going to Joe's Restaurant.
I am sorry, It’s not decided by me but by the company.
Well, I'm not quite ready.
Adidas? They wear well. Try this pair, Size 38, please.
I've had a great time and thank you for your spending so much time showing me around.
Don't worry about it. All in all, you've done very well in school.
There is that.
that's quite a bit. If I give you a raise, I'm going to have to give everyone a raise.
Maybe we can enjoy the TV play together. It's interesting.
Ah yes, the ones from Sapporo we were dealing with yesterday?
but promise me, you'll keep it a secret.
Well, that's a start, I guess.
Hello, Dora, I haven't seen you for a long time. Where have you been?
So what's the problem? Maybe there is something wrong with the disk.
Nobody would drive him up a wall by asking him such a question, you know.
Yes. I'd like to send this parcel to Changchun.
Don't worry. It will take time to accumulate experience. You need to be confident for yourself.
Yes, but don't worry. We'll make it.
You hoo, anybody here?
Okay, I'm coming downstairs now.
I just don ’ t find it very interesting.
Good idea. I'll get some, too.
No, I didn ’ t. I was an english teacher for about five years, but by the time I was thirty, I decided I want a fresh challenge.
Oh, don't talk to me about laptops. Mine crashed on Friday and I lost everything. I hate them.
Well, you know, those styles or colors don ’ t suit me.
Can I get you anything else?
Tariff raises the price at which the goods are sold in the importing country and therefore makes them less competitive with locally produced goods.
May I show you gold ones or jade ones?
You were spying on me, weren ’ t you? You probably rented those children.
John passed away.
Honey, would you marry me?
Hello, Bill! How are things going?
That's right.The bus tour is really efficient and cheap.
I'd like to send this to Chicago.
It depends. If it has something special or useful, I suggest you send it out.
In winter temperature often falls to zero at night temperature can be below that.the streets are often icing in the morning.with high such temperatures you must get some thunderstorms.
I am still in XYZ Company, this meeting took longer than I expected. Say to it that the office manager knows I won ’ t be in to punch my card.
I need to check out this book.
Admittedly, I hope it is a job in line with my specialty. But I will make the best effort to do the job whatever is assigned to me.
I don't feel very good.
I ’ m calling to see if you have made your decision. You are the right person we are seeking for.
Maybe you ’ re right. It is very expensive to go to a weight-loss center. I ’ d better join in a fitness club.
I would recommend it, yes. Then you just need to complete that form.
Excuse me. Do you have a minute? I'd like to tell you about the Bucky Card.
Just close your eyes, and try not to think.
Oh. I enjoy watching boxing on television, too.What a pity I missed it last night!
Yes, I'd like to have a roast chicken leg.
No. I was way too busy studying all the time. How about you?
Okay. In the middle of their streets there are parks, big soccer fields as far as you can see.
That's right. You don't want to injure yourself by exercising too much or in the wrong way. Now, this is how you make the settings for the treadmill...
Come in and sit down, Jack. Now, what's the trouble?
Then 100 US dollars covers everything, doesn't it?
Is dinner served?
It sounds wonderful. Do I have to sign a lease? How much should I pay?
Well, you can have all my carrots.
Of course. Please wait a moment. I'll go and get it.
Thank you. So pleasant to meet you here!
Yeah, that ’ s why I ’ m here. My friends dragged me here, because they think I spend too much time studying.
Hi. I need to have my shoes repaired.
That's good. So I guess I'll have to make an appointment to see you.
We have all kinds of movie channel packages.
It's only $ 24 a month.
Great! Good luck.
Oh, poor you. You know what? I found a new way to learn Chinese and it works very well.
Has Mien sold his house yet?
These drawings on the wall are process sheets.
Someone in the main office has a nephew who he thinks can slide right into the Management position I wanted.
Not very often. Making coffee is a bit troublesome. Most of the time, I just buy takeout at Starbucks. And also, I quite like instant coffee.
I mean the food for something spicy.
Well, congratulations! It's lovely being a newly wed, but also so much pressure. Could you tell me what kind of property you are looking for?
Perfect. Thank you. Bye..
Which one will you be going to?
Oh, I'm glad to hear that. Would you kindly send it to the Hilton Hotel?
We are suppliers of the summer clothes of various styles and colors. I think you will be interested in some of our new products. We always keep the pace of the clothes fashion, so as to catch the interest of our customers.
is it good?
Okay. I think I'll be awake by then.
Do you have a subscription?
I think they're trying to scare the young people so that they don't ever start smoking.
Oh, one more thing, I want to send the card by registered mail too.
OK, but I am going to look at the want ads in this newspaper first.
Mmm... X, E, R, 3, a question mark, and I can ’ t quite make out the other symbol but I think It’s the peace sign.
Excuse me for being late to work.
I am afraid of the dark. I don ’ t feel safe in the dark. I feel someone is hiding in the dark to attack me.
I agree, but we don't really know the whole story. There may have been problems in the kitchen beyond her control.
If that's the case, there is nothing more to be said.
Well, I don't find her attractive, but I'm sure you will disagree.
I ’ d like to do that.
But you know I've been working very hard. And I have a family to support.
Look at these newlyweds. They seem as if they are on top of the world.
The help is mutual. I must thank you to see me off. My wife and I will be looking forward to seeing you. You will come to see us, won't you?
I already have something to wear.
I'm just trying to complete today's crossword puzzle. Whenever I get the time, I like to do the crossword puzzles in the paper.
Unfortunately, an ATM is being refilled because it ran out of money. That's what's causing the hold up.
Come on in. Let me show you around. Here ’ s the living room.
I don't know really. What's the fashional color this year?
I'm leaving now, mum.
This is too good to be true.
I am currently the highest bidder for your shirt. I was wondering about the size.
Thanks, but I want to have a look at the Motorola's products.
is there a penalty for having an overdraft?
I may have something on that day, but thanks for inviting me.
Nah, it's a place where homelesspeople go to eat.
Well, I need to polish up my English.
Now the coals are just right. I can start grilling.
I know, but I still get my license, right?
Hello, this is Rich.
What part of the visit excited you most?
That's a big order, Jane. I am really swamped.
Yes, I understand what to do.
I'm going to Bill's house.
You are welcome. Goodbye.
Yes, any approved overtime of more than two hours will be paid twice of the salary or take time-off.
Very well, thanks.
When we have the final results, we will call you.
No, You can pay when you check out.
Will the object fit into this size of box?
Could I make a reservation for Flight 10 to Tokyo?
Oh, sorry to bother you. I want to know what kind of meat it is.
is that so? I'm afraid people here will not take pity on unlucky guys like you. Bargaining has always been an indispensable procedure in business deals. It's the norm of free trade. The seller sets a preposterous price, and the buyer tries his best to bring it down, until a compromise is reached. Yet you ignored the process. No wonder you ended up easy prey.
Do you think I believe the story like that?
It's hot today, shall we go for a dip at the beach?
Well, it's quite different from the Chinese food.
I don't remember.
It only takes a few minutes.Some people like their meat well done, others like it rare.The great thing about the barbecue is that everyone can choose how they want their meat cooked.
Merry Christmas. Steven!
A good broadcast company usually does far more than press releases.Their people go out and do real reporting, talking to people at the stock exchange, fund managers, analysts, etc.
Thank you.Would you hang up and wait?
Another piece of meat pie?
So, how often do you work out?
Now that it is all over. can I go now?
Yes, I think so.Flight KL638 is still at the airport due to the hurricane.
Would you care for beverage?
But sometimes they offer some useless proposals, it's awfully useless.
how can you get that done?
Well, it was nice meeting you.
It looks like the shipping company did this.
No, he didn't scold me because he was late, too.
Oh, cheer up. A boyfriend is not everything.
Did you order the cake?
Was anyone else with him?
You can have the new carpet and paint by next Monday.
I hope you'll see that we are really doing our utmost.
I haven ’ t got two minutes at the moment. Can ’ t you go over things without me?
that's OK. Have you sent your CV out to anyone yet?
How much further do we have to walk?
Don't worry. We can always change our careers, when we are unsatisfied with them.
Oh, Kelly, I couldn't recognize your voice. Well, I'm fine.
What about listing my interests and affiliations next?
A slow sparrow should make an early start. You know, I am not quick at learning any language.
The only two drivers will be Mary and I.
Absolutely. That's why I can always get a good price.
Hi, Tom. How have you been?
Nothing. It's free.
Yes, the language is a part of culture. It reflects a nation's character.
Could you hand me my wedge? I'll try...
Ok. Next thing is laying the corner-stone for the new plant at 10 AM. At 12 AM, back here for lunch.
Do you know why that is?
What is the price for this one?
Thank you. Have you received my resume?
this book are always delightful.
... Here you go
What's the matter? You don't look well.
Oh, I guess I really did get ripped off.
He isn't a man of good taste for clothes, is he?
You can transfer at Cuchan Men.
It's a forty-five minute to an hour ride.
I'm not sure. He just broke up with his girlfriend recently, and I don't think he's in the mood to start again so soon.
First, you pick up the receiver, wait for the dialing signal, dial the number, and then put the coin into the slot, press the ' speak ' button. Then everything is done.
You don ’ t know that?
Yes. It cost $ 7, and it takes one day.
Your dream will come true. It's really breathtaking
Two bottles of white wine, please.
Were you able to get a look at this person's face?
This bus doesn't take you directly there.You ' d have to change buses twice. I suggest you walk. It'll take you less than 20 minutes.
No, don't try to tend me. I'm becoming chubby, and I have to slender down.
Yeah.But Bob's talent can't to be named on the same day with Carl's.
Do you want beef or lamb?
His life is hanging by a thread, and he is under an emergency treatment.
Oh, thanks all the same.
I calmed up. And finally, I asked her to chew the cud for such an important decision. I could not have the heart to disappoint her with a blunt refusal.
Thank you very much. By the way, where are the vegetables?
How long does it usually take you to make delivery?
This is your mini bar. It contains alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks and also a few snacks. Anything you use will be added to your bill. The price list is by your bed.
I'm not flattering you.You ' re full of energy every day.
We're busy on weekdays, but we'll have a good rest at the weekend.
I am worrying about it too. I want to install a security door.
Sorry, I don't.
He deserved it.
Not really. Things have been going OK.
I ’ m fine, thanks. Just trying to get adjusted. It’s hard to keep track of everything around here.
You have completely damaged my car.
That ’ s great. I'd love to.
Great. I'll take this brand. And how do I take these medicines?
Um, let me see, romance, comedy. documentary, action, science fiction, animated and so on.
This salad looks so nice-just right for a hot day.
What do you mean? It's because it's much cheaper to buy liquor duty-free.
I am sorry, sir, there ’ s nothing I can do. You cannot board the flight with that large bag either.Carry - on bags must fit in the over-head compartment or under your seat. That bag is clearly too big.
Well, make up your mind. We need to know.
Sir, you'll be pleased to know that our gym never closes.
Our quoted price includes the software system, installation, 3 day training seminar and ongoing troubleshooting.There are no hidden costs.
Yes, I think I am quite proficient in both written and spoken English.
I don't think so. I know I've put on weight this winter.
They live in Rome, of course, and go to work by car or bus. But sometimes it takes too long that way because of the traffic jams, so they walk.
Don't worry. I can give you a lift.
Thank you, they ’ re beautiful. You can hang your coat over there. Try this new couch, it is so comfortable. You will love it. Want something to drink, tea, coffee, juice or Cola?
Wow. That's really good.And you think this is really a good system for a graduate student?
Wang Min. Telephone number is 13811658. Can I pick the tickets this afternoon?
Really? I can't believe this. I am also keen on classic music. And do you know there is a concert of classic music tomorrow evening?
First, it was how to design survey sheets according to the subjects, because we had to prevent the questions from being too influential and we must make sure that every question was balanced and equitable. Secondly, it was how to get information through telephone covering in the fastest and most effectively way, because the person doing the survey usually doesn ’ t have the patience to wait for long feedback. So the way we put up questions must be clear and direct and only by this means can we get accurate data.
Is it possible to consider FOB? That way, we will handle the insurance through our broker.
Yeah, I had been in the charity organization for 2 months and I learned a lot from that experience, including love, sympathy, equality, and so on.
Just fine, thank you.How ' s your father today?
Also, please place your carry-on luggage either under your seat or in the overhead compartment.
Concerning our financial position, credit standing and trade reputation, you may refer to our bank.or to our local chamber of commerce or inquiry agencies.
It's made from naturally frozen grapes.
Are you Mr. Wu?
I hope so. Thank you for saying so.
Thanks for calling.
Yes, I often feel like a million dollars after work, like I can take on anything.
Yes, we do. I don't have any small pads. I only have large ones. Do you want a pad?
Hi. I bought one of your vacuums from spend-wart. It’s broken now.
Here, I know a short cut... just go down here, and we ’ ll cut though Ashburn Heights. Let ’ s go, let ’ s go! Watch out for that lady!
Did you bring your ID?
John is a peacemaker.He simply doesn ’ t bother.He says he should give him a free hand.
Where is the produce?
Sorry, sir. You have to pay by yourself.
hi, darling! I have a one-month vacation saved up. How about a trip to Europe?
Please put your baggage on the scale.
I'm a GS - 15. That's high on the scale of workers, but even a GS - 1 is paid a living wage.
I know what you mean. I'm so full that I can burst. Shall we go then?
Would you be interested in an exchange as opposed to a refund? I think I can help you to find the appropriate size.
Well, no. I thought I'd finish in about five minutes, and I didn't want to be difficult about just a few minutes. If it hadn't been for missing the bus and the traffic, I wouldn't have been so late. I'm sorry.
I'm tired of Mexican food. Besides, you picked the restaurant last week.
Are your prices negotiable?
True. So what do they do to you at your beauty spa?
Sure. Here they are.
I majored in Economics.
The food there is a great step up from Sons.
Don't worry, nothings going to happen. I'll be there real soon.
Yes, I have read the Filling Instruction carefully, since you showed me it last week.
Do you have maps of downtown area?
You dance beautifully too.
My name is Max Richards, my phone number is 898-3423. Could you ask him to call me back as soon as he gets back, please? I have a rather timely matter to discuss with him.
Yes, sir. Would you like to remit it by M / T or by T / T?
Thanks you. Shall we stand a bit further? I would like to take the tower in.
I had no idea that I ran it.
That ’ s a really long line. How long do you think it ’ ll take to get through all those people?
Nothing, son. I'm already very happy.
Thank you. See you.
Well, why don't you go on a diet?
We just got one in yesterday, so now we have six.
Well, take care of yourself.
How could you miss that?
Yeah, I started to learn English when I was in high school.
Of course. We gave him a big carrot for a nose.
I know! I hate it! But I ’ m taking this crash course in math.
Would you ring these up for me here?
It was good. Do you have a girlfriend at school?
This looks like a nice restaurant.
That is 413-447-9662?
Where are you heading, sir?
Could I have your name, please? And do you know your card number?
What are you going to make?
Sounds interesting! That must be very convenient.
Fred, we're gonna have a meeting after half an hour. Have you got it?
OK. I'm coming.
Because you can see the results with the general public?
Then keep walking until you reach the war memorial. It’s a big statue of a soldier. You can ’ t miss it.
Have you ever swum in a river or a lake?
Here's your key, sir. If you need anything, just dial 0 on your room phone.
My credit card, please.
I know and they are really nice, too.
Have you ever been shopping at Whole Foods?
It's one of my favorite bakeries.
I am interested in science fiction.
No It’s not. It’s just funny.
Yes, could you put me in the non-smoking section?
He ’ s huge! He must go to the gym to have a well-built body like that.
Please bring your baggage here for inspection.
Good morning. I want to post this letter. Can you tell me what the postage is?
Well, do you have a menu in Chinese?
I ’ m definitely taking them to court.
There are three of them, the Three Tenors.
I genuinely appreciate doctors.
The asking price has recently gone down to two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.
How many copies am I allowed to make?
Hi. Can I help you, sir?
I'm sorry, sir.The price is fixed.
No, don't give it another thought.
Yes. But I will not take much cash with me I can ask the bank to give me the traveler's checks. So it will be safer.
Oh! I see. I'll have the paperback, please ,
I am sorry for that.We will send someone to your room right now.
Would you like to return to this restaurant?
That's because I went to school for each class when I was at school. So now I am much more clever than you.
Hi, Craig! How are you?
Can it wear well and keep its shape?
I hope I don ’ t ever see you back in here.
That sucks. Did you want the assignments from English class?
Yeah, I ’ Ve just moved here, and I ’ d like to activate my cell phone, and I ’ m not sure if I should go with a prepaid plan, or a monthly rate plan.
No, I'd definitely try to restore it to its original state. I love to imagine what it'd be like to live in another time in history and living in a house decorated like it would have been 200 years ago would be a great way to feed my imagination even more!
what's your apartment like?
Great! Thanks a lot!
He is sly. He is actually angling for compliments. But he may have got the crush on you.
That would be great. What kind of music would you like, a band or recorded music?
Yes, nobody was with her.
You look fresh recently. And.. what's your weight now?
Could you tell me the origin of the two festivals?
well, I like all kinds of music, but he is one of my favorites. How about you?
Yep. And there's real strawberry chunks in the coating.
May I see the manager of your office?
But cartons are quite seaworthy. They are extensively used in our shipments to continental ports. There are never any complaints from our clients, and our insurance company has also approved such packing for W. P. A. and T. P. N. D.
Sure thing, follow me. This here is the.
This is just for you. Cheers! Bottoms up.
She is so stupid.
Irish coffee is my favorite. But I'm not particular on it.
Her acting is OK.
What am I supposed to do?
Can you help me now?
It shouldn ’ t take us very long to cover that distance. Remember that we can go quite fast on the motor way.
ok, what do you want me to do?
Do you have a clear career path to follow?
It is a great pleasure for me to have this opportunity for interview.
Right over here, sir. What size do you wear?
Is there a swimming pool in this hotel?
Fine, thank you, and you?
Oh, Uncle Giovanni. That's wonderful! Thank you! Thank you!
Hello, is this 4482098 7? I'd like to speak to Mr Doff.
Skim, please. That'd be very nice. Thanks... oh no. Janna, I'm so sorry, but I've got to go.
yes, it is. Do you consider a frequent check of your income emails to be an integral part of your working day?
Well, that's life.
It appears that you have late fees.
Yes. I have. I liked it very much. Like you, I was very impressed with Rachel ’ s performance in the movie. She ’ s going to be a star.
Just bring yourself! I'm looking forward to seeingyou again. It's been a long time!
That seems very impressive. Good work!
I have talked a lot about your restaurant business and your friends with my friends. One of my friends seems to be on good terms with Sue.
Maybe. But I ‘ d rather be spoiled than turn into a crazy guy with a long period to talk to the birds.
I am afraid I am not interested in fashion.
Fine. This is your bill, Mr. Smith. Four nights at 100 dollars each, and here are the meals that you had in our hotel. That makes a total of 660 dollars.
Oh, you are out of breath! What happened?
Well, I hate to disturb you, but I really can't stand it any more. Can you change my room for me? It's too noisy. I was woken up several times by the noise the baggage elevator made. It was too much for me.
I'm not sure. I think it lasts about one hour.
Well, there is no problem there. But she seemed to think that you were angry when she refused, and that your motives are personal and not professional.
I need 8 hundreds and the rest in 10s please?
May I have a look at your room card, Mr. Black?
That is kind of weird! What if she is a psycho or something like that?
I insist. I really appreciate you taking time to work with me in. What is your favorite fast food? I'll cater to your taste.
The website will give you a normal range and then tell you what your results are.
Well, I don ’ t like it, but I guess I don ’ t have any choice.
I like both strawberry and coffee ice cream.
If so, I'd better try another store.
Boy, you've got such a crush on her, haven't you?
The cords that you see behind your CPU that plug into an outlet.
Well, I bought this skirt here yesterday afternoon. But I got the wrong size. It’s too small for my daughter. I wonder if I could refund it.
Look! This window is open.
Good morning. I want to deposit a sum of money into my account.
That's smart thinking.
On the Internet? I have never tried that way.
I think I'm going to China this vacation.How about you?
What about your step-brother's mother? Does he keep in touch with her?
Rude people are everywhere.
Yes, I am positive.
Sixty cents please.
Ok then, I ’ ll follow you.
I ’ m thinking about buying this sweater. I know It’s June now, but it will be perfect for autumn and winter.
Is this where I get off?
Hey, it is! A lot of people like that movie!
Well, that's cool.
Where are you going for your trip?
Maybe they were just attracted to each other but too different to be married.
Well, you do still have three weeks. But remember the employee must sign them, too. Filling them in is nothing - it's meetingwith the employees that takes so much time.
You won't have to wait a second, sir.
Down to his shoulders. It's beautiful, like gold.
He ’ s quite particular about what he wears, especially about his ties. He gets different tie each day.
I went to a small school in Connecticut. It has a very good reputation for its languages department.
What do you have for breakfast?
I ’ m a new student. My name ’ s Robert.
Wonderful. That's a place famous for its arts.
I have three years of teaching ESL and four years of teaching per-school children.
Palmistry? What is that?
I do a good old lady. I wouldn't mind being the damsel in distress once in a while.
Your reservation is right. Please get a ticket booking form from there and fill it.
I ’ Ve got them there. Shall I drive?
John is in prison now.He was copped outstealing.
Salary can be negotiated once we officially offer you the job.
You mean the room thirteen-thirteen?
Yes, you do. The Hot Cap is back here in the corner. I think we're ready to put the curlers in. What kind of perm would you like?
But I really needed to be quick.
Don't worry about it. There is nothing strange about it.If Conrad's there, we'll leave for the party.If he's not, we'll sit down and have a drink.
Could you send up a Coke and a salad?
That's quite a lovely weather.
Yes, it does look a bit sore. Let's take an X-ray of your chest and give you a few tests.
Did I do something wrong?
Well, you can give her a set of pearl earrings, or this beautiful heart-shaped pendant. What is her favorite gemstone?
do you prefer chinese food or Western food?
I hope that he brings change to America.
We provide free delivery and installation.
That's right. I am still wet behind the ears.
Hi, Tina, I ’ Ve got good news. I have successfully passed the first two rounds of interview with ABC Company. They informed me to go to the final round next Monday. It looks very promising.
I'll need a few minutes to check over my notes again on every detail. What about the quality standard?
That will probably be Ok.
Our company is in Pudding new area in Shanghai.
I see, well, I think I ’ m more interested in a chequing account. I like to have easy access to my money.
The meeting room on the Fourth Floor needs to be swept. Jerry and Tom will help you at that time. Any questions?
Oh, hello, Mr. Campbell. I'm fine and Jack's doing well. How are you?
Exactly. I'm too excited for Christmas morning. Also, I thought I heard Santa.
I need your background information before the meeting.
Hey man, you wanna buy some weed?
Certainly not.Here it is.
Can I sign the lease right now?
Yes, 20 yuan for each.
And the holdall has some fragile items inside, so please be careful with that too.
There are thirteen of them. Oh, have another. Have a third, if you like, have them all.
You'd better have a good rest for a week. Be sure to have regular meals. Stay away from alcohol.Give up smoking at least a little while.
How long would I wait?
Hi, Mary. This is Tom.
It doesn ’ t matter to me.
All right. Chinese embroidery is one traditional art with elaborate design and high quality.
Certainly. Here's a survey report by a well-known lab in London, whose testimony is absolutely reliable.
I know, but... Hey, Jim's here! I've been waiting to hear him sing all night.
Well, Indian cuisine actually doesn ' t serve beef. You see, cows are a sacred animal, a very important element in the Hindu religion, so beef is not eaten.
Not too bad. The goal is to get the ball into the hole with as few hits as possible.
I took a long walk through the neighborhood this morning on my way to the train station. It took me 20 minutes.
Yes. I enjoying reading biographs, especially those of well-known statesmen, militarists, scientist and artists, I can learn a lot from their life histories.
They're like a citrus fruit.
What do you eat?
Sorry sir. But you can ’ t go into the OR.
Because you need a senior production planner who is good at mathematics and fluent in English. I think I am fit for the position.
No, it's quite simple. When you get on, just ask the bus driver when to pay the fare and where you want to get off.
Which dish do you like most?
The unit price is $ 12.50.
so what did you do?
Not really. I couldn ’ t careless about the Olympic Games.
For a year and a half.
Thank for your help. I owe you.
it's hard to say. It depends. But I love the waltz.
Where would you like the money transferred?
Certainly not. What really counts is to play as a team, passing the ball amongst each other, dodging defenders. Free kicks are a result of all the teammates ' collective efforts.However, a few free kicks often make everything different, especially scoring one such goal in the nick of time.
That will be Ok. Come on, I can't wait to chow down.
That sounds great. Have you been to the top of the Pearl Tower?
I am hoping that this test goes well for me.
Good afternoon, Mr. Black. Thank you very much.
Exactly what type of ground beef do you want?
Not really. Do you like biographical / drama films?
so sure. Are you from around here?
Did you get a good look at them?
Wow, that's great!
Were you? your performance was excellent.
What ’ s a good exercise for my chest muscles?
Sure, Emily. How can I help you?
Would you rather I taught him a lesson for you?
Thank you. It's our first date. I hope it's not too offensive.
I understand. Our offer remains open for 4 days.
Oh okay, thank you.
We'd better leave him alone.
good for you. I know many people just leave their blogs alone after the first few months.
Well, that's it. 7 appointments in Paris at beginning of next week, and 4 in Frankfurt at the end of the week.
Yes, do you have any flights to Sydney next Tuesday afternoon?
Good idea. Shall we search on line to find an appropriate one or go to a phone store?
No. you go ahead and putt it out. Then I'Il go.
I see, that sounds like something she would have really liked. I am sure the memorial service will be tasteful. You are doing a great job.
I passed College English Test Band 6, with good skill in listening, speaking, reading, and writing. I haven't got any certificate of computer skills, because I don ’ t think certificates are necessary if what ’ s needed is merely operating a computer. I think practically, to know how to use a computer is more important. And I am quite familiar with Microsoft Office.
How much? Is it overweight?
Hurry up, Sam. The kettle ’ s boiling.
I try not to think about it!
I apologize. One moment, please, while I transfer you to my supervisor.
The complaint rate for our new product line is very high, almost eight percent.
When I turn off my home alarm, the house will automatically tum on the lights and set the climate to a comfortable level.
I really need to find a parking spot.
How many days is the tour?
I am going to the Central Park. Which train should I take?
Look, daddy is on again. Don't you think he is handsome?
It's Peter's turn.
Surely of course.
Why? If I eat less, then my body will start eating away at my fat reserves, right?
Hello, Fairbrook Consulting, how may I help you?
Not at all, sir. I ’ d just like to push it up to next week. I ’ ll have a lot more free time at the beginning of next week.
That's all the general information of our company. I think you already have good knowledge about our company.
I am quite active and energetic. I approach things enthusiastically and I don't like leaving things half done.
Well, I think I'd like to have a tomato sausage soup first. And the same for him, please.
I'll take you to the assembly shop...
"They don't just randomly stick you, they find your pressure points. The heat allows the body to immediately respond to the treatment, restoring the body's "" chi ""."
One Coke and the other a Sprite, please.
I know, but I'm really hot.
No, I didn't. Would you like to go look by the table with me?
Try it on in front of the mirror.
Yeah, I'm ready.
For what day?
Well, I'm thinking of going to see the ballet Swan Lake by the famous Russian National Ballet Troupe this evening at Beijing Grand Theater. Why don't you join me?
What? The meeting was proponed? No one told me anything about it.
Can I take your order, sir?
I don't think she would do such a thing.
Nothing. I'm just asking.
That would be great. What is the blood test for?
Oh, yeah, It’s terrible. I will tell you the funniest thing I have seen in China. It’s when so many people try to get onto one city bus, and the last guy is squeezed in so tight that the door is tightly pressed against his butt.
Hey, Blake! Are you still listening to Mozart?
Well, I know a lot of people have guns there. I think maybe it isn't too safe.
That ’ s my only one.
Let's congratulate him on Sunday.
I recently saw a recipe for spicy chicken curry in a magadize. Maybe we could try that?
That sounds fine. I'll bring in my passport and everything tomorrow. Thanks.
I don ’ t see any problem, only the car is a bit old.
Jenny, I want to go on a picnic. Could you come too?
No, the show is almost sold out.
Well, let me see... Do you work at IBM Corporation?
sounds fascinating. Where is your new house located?
Don ’ t worry. I ’ m getting more sleep these days. The baby ’ s finally growing up a little more.
Welcome to Flash Foot, sir.How can I help you?
It looks like you have to buy tickets for us, Jason. And we're not going to see an action movie!
We like a larger wardrobe.
Please keen your key number here, do you want to any extra cash back?
Queen, nonsmoking. Okay, sir, your room is reserved. Now if you'll just give me your phone number.
Sure. The fitting room is on your right.
Hi, Nancy.How are you doing?
For me, growing up in a big family always made me yearn for attention. I always wanted to be an only child so that I could always do what I wanted and so that I wouldn ’ t ever have to share.
No, she's wearing my Chinese zodiac sign.
I need to use the Internet.
Hmm... This Rolex? $ 1,000.
Hello, ABC Company.
In fact, we are beginning to make preparations.
That ’ s about all I can spare, Karen. What do you need?
That ’ s right. Then wait for the green light and turn the handle.
I think so. One minute I feel quite awake, and the next I feel very tired.
It can cost between five hundred and one thousand dollars.
Thank you very much. We really had a good time.
A 10,000 dollar policy shouldn ’ t be too expensive. Here, call my agent. He will give you a good deal.
That sounds good. I ’ ll call you once I arrive.
Hey! Ask your mom for more old pictures, OK?
I'm not sure what kind that I want.
That's three Jim Beams and three Perriers. Anything else, sir?
Is that really necessary?
Have you voted yet?
OK. Steven, you're looking at a picture. Please describe what you see!
Hello, this is Lucie Jing calling from Lincoln Bank. May I speak to Mr Was, please?
Well, did you get any honors or rewards in college?
Yes.It was just when I was walking in the park. I saw some children with a newspaper.
I am consistently impressed by artists.
Hello, Mr. Sun.
What's up with Vince and Elvin?
I'm sorry. What's your name again?
Doesn't look like it to me.
I drew a blank on the algebra test.
How long will you stay with the host family?
You must be annoyed about your boyfriend ’ s leaving you, huh?
Room Reservations. May I help you?
I am still waiting for their call.
If you enter this company, what section would you like to work in?
It said that he's hoping to get a face transplant, but until then, he's looking forward to Halloween so he isn't the only one wearing a mask.
I ’ m going to check out tomorrow. Then we ’ ll be back in a week ’ s time. Can I leave my luggage here.
Is there something wrong with your meter?
I ’ m pretty tired. I haven ’ t been sleeping well.
About a day.
Well, thanks, Bill. Let me know what happens. That extra money will really come in handy.
She already bought that evening gown.
do people in different departments get along with each other?
He ’ s a bit tired, you know. It often takes him a couple of hours to brush up.
I think we should hire a live band.
who is he?
Here they are.
Daniel, have you finished your homework?
The milk powder on the second level of the shelf is for the kids from 2 ages to 4 ages. I advice that you should buy the Wyeth brand, the source of milk is imported from New Zealand.
I am not sure what to do during the holidays, any suggestions?
What colours do you have in foundation?
I ’ m sorry. She ’ s in a meeting right now.
The World Cup! The first match is today! It’s Mexico vs. South Africa! It’s going to be a really good match! Both teams have a very strong offense and have skilled players. I think that South Africa
Are you familiar with American-styled accounting?
It was hard work.
With snow in Kunming? That's crazy!
We start at the top with our name and contact information. Make sure the information is current.
How's the building work going?
Yes, I never seem to have any energy.
Certainly. Four more stops after this. I ’ ll call out the stops.
Excuse me, sir. Where is the No. 1 bus stop?
Does it make a lot of noise?
It's Thursday, I think.
I think you are well informed about the prevailing market.Some Spanish firms are offering the same at much lower prices.
Here you are, sir. I hope you enjoyed your dinner.
Would you please teach me how to use the computer?
I think you're right. An international response to this problem is needed.
Did you ever win any competitions?
What a bone head! Be careful next time.
Do you know what's on tonight by any chance?
Such as fat-free milk, whole-wheat rolls and fish sandwich.
No, but if she has any questions, she can call me at 555-2345.
You have to try at least.
How about you? What are you going to do tomorrow?
What's happening, officer?
Good morning, Sir. Are you here to get some advice about our new Personal Financing Program?
It wouldn't be worth the trouble in that case, would it? Let's still use cartons.
Thank you. Here you are.
I got it. Don ’ t worry. I ’ ll get you there in one piece.
What do you think about her as a boss?
Well, really! That was wonderful! I felt no pain at all. Thank you, doctor.
what ’ s wrong, Jim?
How good are you at sports, Bill?
I wait, but please bring me some bread. Maybe I'd like to have some appetizer before they get here. Please give me the menu, and let me have a look.
I'm scared.
Yeah. I went to California to study.
I'll remember that for next time.You ’ ll get extra peas and carrots, but no broccoli or cauliflower, ok?
Oh, let's see what's wrong.
Yeah, you need to take advantage of it within its expiry date.
Well, I've been browsing online, but I ’ m not really sure what to do about payment. I would like to know what the most convenient way to do it is.
Yes, Of course. What's your telephone number?
That ’ s all right. I ’ ll be finished in a little while.
Well, it's a bit overweight. You must pay extra for it.
Just walk down the road for a few minutes, and you'll find it on your right.
Thank you. I will go get one.
Well, you look great! How are you?
Sorry! Excuse me! I got your message.
What time do you open this evening?
Wow, that's really old.
That's a good idea. I think we will soon come to a solution to the problem.
We serve a great variety of popular Japanese dishes in set courses, and also many meat dishes.
I doubt it, I'll deal with it right away. Luckily it wasn ’ t a glass of red wine, I ’ ll just get a bowl of water and a cloth.
Certainly.Here you are.They ' re the very latest fashion.
I would like to ask for four point five million Hong Kong dollars.
You know that this job requires frequent business travel. Can you accept it?
Okay, thanks a lot.
And what is the problem?
Were you able to get a look at the suspect's face?
Your present job is something better. Why do you change?
Yup. Though the words he used are simple, but the spirit he has conveyed is great.
It was empty last time I went up there.
Could you use wooden cases instead?
Yes, it is. There are three bedrooms, a living room, a dining room, and a big kitchen. There's also a garden.
It's hard to say! But it seems that a lot of wars nowadays are civil wars. People from different ethnic groups in the same country sometimes fight for power in that country.
What's for dinner?
I want it the way Peckham wears it.
My name is Jane Brown!
Dad, it's raining outside.
When are you going to tell her that Santa Claus doesn't exist?
Typical you, always wanting to keep the best things for yourself. The more I appreciate the gift now.
Yes, there is. Teenagers do not want to live traditional lives. They want to go out, have fun, and explore the world. They want to develop their own view of life.Parents usually try to discour
Why are you in court today?
Where are you going, Jane?
I'll be happy to get back to you with an estimate in the next few days.
That sounds all right to us.
The Grand hotel, is it far from here?
It wasn't as good as you think.
Mother, may we have a party?
Uh, I can see that. And Erica Falls has lost a lot of weight.
Can you use the computer or other office machines?
My son closed his ear to what I said. I don ’ t know what I should do.
I ’ Ve never seem such a scene either except in films.
how old is he today?
Very philosophical. I think they design these clothes more for publicity. They try to see who can be the most extreme and outrageous, but still stylish.
OK. Teach me how to play the game.
It's the tradition. But baby showers as we know them today were not common until after World Warri.
I want to fly to Congo on Monday, the 17th.
OK. Do you want any film?
Cut out, would you?
Four pounds is enough.
I'm not sure. Perhaps around 8 PM.
No, It’s the fourth time.
she usually doesn't wear anything but a few drops of Chanel No. 5. But I'd like to buy her a new Fragrance.
Part-timer? Is that a new buzzword?
But whenever we play, you just sit on the sand, drink beer, and watch the girls!
Well, have you thought of getting an MBA? I heard it does wonders in getting you to the top.
So, you choose to spend it on bodybuilding. Where do you exercise?
As regards salary, I leave it to you to decide after experience of capacity.
Mary! I haven ’ t seen you since our dinner with Mr. Lee last week. Where have you been hiding yourself lately?
The morning would be nice.
I love it here.
Then you can buy this one. It's very nice and latest in style.
I'm afraid not.
That's right. Now this one looks alright? It's a detached or do you prefer this one? It's Sony.
What are you reading about in that science magazine?
Good. Anything else?
What's it?
I have a bad headache.
Yes, this one is in service. Put your card in here, in this slot and wait a moment. Then you will see some instructions on the screen.
Well, I sort of suggested that we would go out on the town. Do you have another suggestion?
Well, I went to high school here, but I went to college in Texas.
All right, madam. When I was sales manager at the Beijing Friendship Store. I succeeded in raising the yearly sales volume by 25 % and profit margins from 50 % to 80 %.
Do I have to work on weekend? If so, how do you pay for the overtime?
That's all right. We will send you a purchase order in one week. I hope you will be able to take care of it.
I ’ m sorry, sir. Could you tell me your name and order again, please? I ’ ll check on the delay.
Excuse me. Can you direct me to the toy department, please?
You know, although we've chatted twice, I've been thinking of you already.
Do you catch this bus a lot?
Yes. Work starts at eight and I arrive home after six.
Well, it takes two to to make a happy marriage.
What kind of ground beef do you need?
Yes. Nice to meet you, Mrs Smith.
No, the one on the left. Yes, that ′ s the one.... Thank you.
Are there any vacancies still available?
Come on, Mary. This is America. You make your own decisions here.
Well, we can wait for the assistant to help us, or we can look through the boxes down here. What is your size?
It's so nice of you.
May I ask what brought you here?
Hey! What's that smell? Are you burning the toast?
Tell me, Lisa, what made you decide to be an English major?
How are you going to get there?
Hi, Doris. I hear you are going to the United States next week.
And what should I wear?
I hate to tell you this, but they are nothing but sob stories.
that happens a lot in non-English speaking countries.
Do you have an airsickness?
you're here a bit early, so check the departure screens in the waiting area in about a half hour. Here's your boarding pass. Enjoy your flight!
Good afternoon, Lexington Software. Angelina Dawson, how can I help?
Goodbye, and try not to miss any more school.
We have a guy who plays guitar, and another who plays bass.Although we still haven ’ t found anyone to be our singer. You told me that you had some musical talent, right?
Japanese teams always play a dark horse.
3000 RIB as bonus for each person.
You are still wet behind the ears. You should have seen through her.
Parents have a difficult job. They have to bring up their children and usually have to work too.
Total Fitness, why?
Thank you, I'll be right back. Do you need any to go boxes? I'd be glad to bring you some when I come back.
maybe it is for the best. They are not suitable for each other because they have nothing in common and are completely different people.
Here we come.
A little bit. I have to go to sleep though I don't want to.
Does the class start again, Mam?
One Coca Cola and the other a Sprite, please.
It's like this, it's square with a leather cover.
She went to the store to buy some groceries. Would you like to leave a message?
How is night life in Beijing?
No way! My parents used to hang out at those places.
Oh, we have many kinds.Do you like this design.
Then, what starting salary do you expect?
What ’ s he doing?
We might have cancellations. Could you call us again some other day?
What does that mean, not big but fat? You didn't buy...
But somebody told me this was the right bus to take. I want to go to Tian'anmen Square, you see.
You should strike while the iron is hot.
What's your question?
Of course not. What exactly would you like to know?
Do you consider yourself a good mother?
It's just a regular inspection.Do you have anything to declare?
quite a number. Actually every skyscraper has a history. A few blocks ahead we'll see St.Patrick ' s Cathedral and just across the street will be the world-renowed Rockefeller Center. It's a landmark
Will that be all?
Hello. I'm answering the ad in the paper about your car.And I wonder if it is still available?
No problem.madam.But I think the red sweater is not colorfast.Would you like to have it dry cleaned?
Let's go to the coffee shop then. It's quiet there.
Mary, it was wrong of you to be so late. Mother ’ s very worried.
At least 20 days.
What does Stephanie study?
Ok. I ’ ll try my best to calm down first.
What did you enjoy the most?
I will, thank you for calling.
We intend to establish business relationship with your company on the basis of equality and mutual benefit.
Yes. My name is Charles.
Because I love the snow.
I can show it to you now, if you like. I think it goes back about 8 generations so far.
I judge by appearances.
Oh, god, please tell me how.
That's right. We got the assignment last week.
I wish I were just as handsome.
How do you get through the stuffy daytime?
You need to avoid highly fatty and greasy foods. You should also avoid too much sugar and caffeine.
You're pulling my leg! She must be thirty years younger than Leo. Talk about robbing the cradle!
Mmmm. They smell nice.
Good Morning. What can I do for you?
That's good. I'll tell them later. And what kind of medicine we should be prepared?
That's easy. Everyone knows that there are nine.
Ok, great, should I bring anything?
The only thing I really don't like is to get feedback in front of others. I want to hear good and bad feedback in private, so that I have time to think and react to the issue without other distractions. I believe that's the fair way to improve learning or to change future behavior.
I heard that Jim lost 100 yuan. Do you know that?
Let's meet for lunch at eleven thirty and afterwards, we can head over there.
The hotel operator. Anything I can do for you?
They still live in Shanghai where I was born.
You don't have to. This is your knob menu.Just tick off the items you want for breakfast. write down the time and hang it outside the door before you go to bed tonight.
I always feel I ’ m left high and dry with nobody to rely on.
Lucky for you, this month we aren ’ t charging our normal installation fee. You are saving yourself 100 bucks right there! And we ’ ll throw in this pen drive!
Today is my wife's birthday, so I want to buy a bouquet for her.
Have you applied for you visa to go to study in the united states yet?
Yes, you are right. Either party is not well-equipped to produce the final products single-handedly, but they can enter into an agreement. In such case, each side contributes different resources to make the manufacture of a certain product or a category of products possible.
Here you go. Don't do that again.
Yes, sir. And there is also a party going on each Saturday night in the bar till next morning.
Should I bring you some water?
OK, settled then.
Sometimes working with a foreign company can be stressful. Foreigners tend to get excited or angry easily, and they show it. Are you sure you can handle this stress? How do you deal with conflict in your present job?
Yes. Now fill in two customs declarations and one despatch note in English. You'll have to take your parcel to the next window for examination when you have completed the forms.
there's a lot of evidence that suggest it will, but I don't think it's going to happen any time soon.
Almost. Ah, you're lucky. Um, it's funny, you go in the water and you worry about sharks, but not clams.
This is a very nice place. How long have you been living here now?
You should try other fundraisers.
Usually the host family prepares at least two meals a day for you.
What are you talking about?! He ’ s passed every drug test he ’ s taken!
I plan on going back to school.
May I venture to ask if you've decided to employ Mark?
The taxi will be here immediately, sir.
Most salespeople seem like half-brains. Zina's definitely an exception.
I just can't bear it that Emily made me feel like a baby who always pigs out on junk food.
So now your bill comes to £ 20.15 and I need to pay £ 22.50.
Is everything ready for the big family barbecue tomorrow?
OK. Don't forget to get your ticket three days ahead.
Yeah, I ’ m dealing with it. Anyway. Thank you, Mike.
I am studying languages. This year I am doing German and Italian.
Thank you. That would be great.
No need to sweat it. My parents agreed to pay for most of the wedding, which is going to be low-budget anyway. So roughly four hundred people, which means that the hall at Northwoods Heights will be our reception venue. I thought it would be nice if we had the wedding at your parents ’ church and my uncle of course would be officiating. We ’ ll meet with him soon for some pre-wedding counseling. The music for the wedding ceremony was a no-brainer. My step-sister and her string quartet will take care of that. My cousin will be the official photographer. I thought it would also be nice if his daughter could sing a solo. Did you know that she ’ s going to be a professional opera singer?
No, it just won't work.If I read for your exam, you won't know the answers tomorrow. I will.
Well I wanted to go for a picnic but it rained too much.
How about these? They are nine yuan each.
I think this painting would look good in our living room. What do you think?
I'm so excited. Finally, a yard of my own.
Was there much bleeding afterward?
( After the breakfast ) Which floor is the art exhibition we are going to?
We have Italian, French, thousand island and blue cheese.
Oh, no. What did I do? It's asking me for a password.
That's so ironic! Well, what's it like? Is it your traditional food?
Someone has stolen my cell phone.
oh, that's a picture of me on our fourth day of travelling. I'm standing next to a famous foundation in the centre of the city.
Absolutely. That's why when he entered the finale, I was so excited.
I really appreciate the offer, but I must decline it.
Oh, thank you. That ’ s very kind of you.
My wage depends on production results.
Are there any beds vacant?
What about the jeans?
Sure is. Waiter, bring us two drafts, please.
It depends on who the film is about. Which movie did you have in mind?
So, who do you work for?
But we saved your parents so much money...
It's just a slogan for a famous company ; there's nothing really special about it.
Well, that's a relief.
Do you have the ticket with you?
Take me to the airport, please.
It’s a piano solo. I'm fond of piano, you know.
I see. I guess that makes sense.
Do you have Ginkgo trees here?
That's true. It's said the short-lived marriage is typical of the post - 80s ' generation.
If you ask me, I don ’ t think It’s guilty.
Would you prefer to take similar medicine of other brands?
Great! Do you need me to sign anything?
Thanks. What shall I do then?
Not if you take off your jacket.
Are there any signs there?
Ok, I'll come down tonight. Thanks.
How about stewed-fried steamed pork?
I'm going to do some shopping.Why don't you come with me?
Why don't you try this other T-shirt? I think it would look nice on you.
Please excuse me, won't you?
It’s a small world, isn ’ t it?
It won't be long. No more than ten minutes. Why don't you go ahead and I'll meet you in the park?
Oh, I haven't decided what I'm going to do yet.
I am sorry ; you can't borrow a jacket and a tie.
Well I hate to tell you this Jen, but both of William's grandmothers passed away more than five years ago.
There are many Chinese characters on its body, too. What are they about? Puzzles?
Make sure that your customs forms are with you.
Thank you. That's a good idea. she likes exciting books. Can you suggest another one?
Yes, it's Mr. Brown.
It's me. The D-man! I sat behind you in English. Are you and Taylor still dating?
Let's skip The X-files tonight, Fran. Okay? Just this once?
But isn't it served with cold milk?
I would like to leave a few minutes early today. Would that be all right?
Can I see your passport, please?
Really? How did it go?
You know Mr. Forster, this is a really large purchase. I am afraid we can't pay off at one time. We have to pay by installment.
What did you need?
Hey, look there. It is an advertisement of the piano training class on the billboard. The place is not far from our home.
She mentioned a Mac. How much is it?
Do you have any suggestions?
what's your favorite Chinese dish?
It will be held at the Central Music Hall.
Yes, they are very fashionable, you see.
He does, he started five years ago and now ends up the richest among us.
It sounds like this is going to be authentic Mexican food.
I'm not satisfied with it.
that ’ s amazing. Do you have a large extended family?
Yes, absolutely! We have a very good reputation in the neighborhood.
definitely. I have to spend 300 yuan more on food every month.
Slacker and those who violate working procedures and ignoring deadlines.
I'll take care of taking the survey and get back to you with the answers.
Oh! What a beautiful dress! It fits you so well.You look so charming in the dress.
I'd love to. What date is it?
Yes, you're at the right stop.
I wish I had a chance to see it with my own eyes.
Circle or stalls?
I think I found my Yankee's mug...
You should get off at the first Shi Da stop.
It's kind of a big favor. I'm absolutely flat broke, and I owe my landlady $ 200. she's given me until Friday to give it to her, but I don't get paid until next Monday. Do you think you could loan me some cash until I get paid?
Yes, what kind do you have?
Well, there's a bench under the tree.We can sit there.
You want to go out with me and you know it.
So you are.
That's a good choice.
Okay, I'll make dinner tonight.
Wait a minute. I think we have missed an important point. We should include an arbitration clause in the contract.
Besides, Internet tends to be more essential now in the information age.
I can do that.
That old thing! Why don't you just buy a new one?
We want to order some of these products.
Do you have any ideas on this work?
But they're purple. I prefer a brown set.
Take care of yourself and remember to keep in touch.
Really? How can I do that?
Yeah, my friend and I hiked in a very wild part of the national forest.
Today I'm here to find out about paying in foreign currency. You do that here, I suppose?
Hi, Steven, take a seat! How are things at work?
Don't jump the gun. She's in the driver's seat right now. You have to be patient.
That's true. She's highly esteemed among everyone at my company.
According to our regulations, you will be on probation for the first three months.
The list goes on and on!
They're glad?!
We're happy together now. We both think that we're a well-matched couple.
Thank you. I have been working on it for several years.
Yes, I love to see the animal show.
My feelings exactly.
Yes, the food here deserves its reputation. Chinese food is one of my favorites 。
Good luck to us.
Then there is nothing particular I'd like to eat. Grandpa, what's your favorite here?
I'd like to reserve two seats at 100 yuan, please.
With cold milk!
But it explains why Taylor isn't answering and Femi took time off from work.
UCLA was my second choice, but I ’ m happy knowing I ’ Ve been accepted.
Is that the red one? That is my favorite, too. Do you know how much they are?
I told him 28 years. And, he knows I'm 28 years old since I just celebrated my birthday last week. He was puzzled for a minute, and then he got it.
Hello, Daniel. What can I do for you?
Is that everything that I have to do?
Yeah, and don ’ t worry about the security deposit. If everything ’ s all right when you move out, you ’ ll get it back.
Please cut the sides shorter, but not so much at the back.
Credit card.We don't like to carry much cash with us on our trips.
We are happy that we have established business relations. I really hope that we'll have more business to do and more opportunities to meet each other.
Even those. It'll be very romantic, I think. You'll have loads of fun.
You're Mr.Stevenson, right?
4:00 p. m..
I see you have bought the latest copy of “ beauty and fashion ”. Are there any interesting articles in it?
So you don't think you are fat and need to lose weight?
My parents just didn't handle my older sister very well, and because of that, they want me to be more independent. They think that it's important that I should learn how to live on my own.
You think he might stay even longer?!
Why aren't you doing well in the class?
Did you take TOEFL or GRE?
thank you for the dance.
Yesterday I had a deal with a vice manager. He acts like the point man.
That's good enough, I think. What colors does the new Accord come in?
I hope so. Would you like to join me?
Sir, our gym is open around the clock, every day of the week.
I can not belive that. It must be cooked up by someone.
Another flight attendant is coming down the aisle with coffee and tea.
And you'd look so cool!
Excuse me, Mr. Li. I have something to discuss with you.
When can I apply for it?
What's the memory capacity of the computer?
Perfect! I ’ m afraid to ask, but how much is it?
Anything else, sir? Should I check the water and the oil?
You heard people say that money doesn't guarantee happiness.
It's so crowded. All the seats are taken. Let's go there. There is a seat over there.
Me? I'm in the car business.
OK.If you need anything, just call the Room service.
what else is wrong with it?
Basically, there are 7 types of games
Well, if there's nothing else, I think we've settled everything.
I am looking for a pair of trousers. Do you have any good ideas?
6,000 miles, all highway mileage.
That the conference was lowkey awesome.
How much will it cost in that case?
You must take the signed add slip to the Admissions and Records Office to add the class. Do you know where that is?
Would you give me a bottle of beer, please?
I am good at tennis and skiing. What about you?
What's wrong? You are like a little monkey, on pins and needles!
How about the umbrella? It's made of wood and paper. It's very beautiful.
Who is afraid? I am not afraid.
I didn ’ t, but I applied for an apprenticeship, and since I studied math, AND I have a good attitude, my application was accepted.
I really appreciate it.
We gave you a list of problems last week.
Oh, am I seeing Mr. Li?
once in a while, I suppose, I usually rent movies at Movie Salon.
You are right, I guess.The world keeps changing, and so do families. But I like a small-sized or medium-sized family where everybody is equal to everybody else. That's what I want.
It's comfortable. I will take it.
That ' ok. That's happens all the time.
Your luggage is over 8 kilograms.
Did you see anyone come into the block flats?
I ’ m afraid I never go for a holiday. It’s always business.
Yeah. It's been a couple of months since I saw you.
Roger Vargas is up at bat. The pitcher winds up and strike one!
Sure.But you can only keep them for a week.
Tom! How are you? We missed you at the party last night. Are you OK?
I will try to present my ideas in a more clear and civilized manner in order to get my points across.
Looks like there are a lot of things to do to stay healthy.
Your document will be ready in about ten minutes.
To be honest, Ava, I've just had a really bad day.
It's just we've been planning to go the beach for a while, and we decided we could both make it this weekend. Then out of nowhere she called me up, said her boyfriend had made plans and that she need to cancel the trip. I was so angry when she told me that I said she didn't care about our friendship at all.
Excuse me, do you sell apples?
My acceptance letter to Yale!
What a wonderful party! I had a good time. How about you?
After that I choose something from one of the few brands that I know will fit me. I prefer white, so I ask them to bring me a pair of white sneakers in my size. Since I ’ m usually only given one or two pairs of shoes that meet my qualifications, it makes it a very easy choice.
You won't be disappointed.
Excuse me, sir. Could you spare a minute?
Well, I was born in Shanghai and went to school there, right up through college. My father is a lawyer, and my mother is a teacher.
That ’ s the impression I get from the movies, and from looking around. Men and women seem very business-like in their relations with each other.
I just like to sleep like a lazy cat.
That works for me.
Do you need money or what?
Beautiful day, isn't it?
Here is a good place. Let's get out.
Excuse me, sir. May I help you?
Of course. I stay online for four hours at least every day.
Did you listen to the weather forecast?
What ’ s the most important part?
It’s such a nice day outside. Let ’ s take a walk into town and do some window-shopping.
I was just watching a documentary on tv about people use dogs for various purpose. It was very interesting.
Oh, I didn't expect you to know them. But yes, I love them not only because of many medals they've won, but also because of their spirits.
congratulations! That's really exciting! Let's get out a bottle of wine to celebrate!
Whew! I'm impressed! You really know your stuff!
My sister did it. When did you get yours cut?
I guess we'd better get back to work.
I did phone her this morning, but she hung up on me. I think she is going to walk out on me.
It must be old.
My roommate invited both of us to dinner.
It's getting late, and you have to wake up early tomorrow.
$ 40 per night.
What are you looking for in your next job?
Certainly. Please wait a moment. Here is your bill.
I have been doing quite well at college. According to the academic records I've achieved so far, I am confident that I will get my Bachelor of Business Administration this coming July.
I'll have to think about it.
What was she wearing?
What about taking the cable car?
I have a reservation. My name is Rodgers.
Okay. Let me check for a room on the first floor.
Actually, the one-bedroom is the only vacant apartment right now.
No, It’s 3725019281, It’s a 9, not a 5.
Well, I'll try. Then what would you like to drink? It's on me.
I need a taxi, please.
Your name, please.
I have the sauce, but remind me to get some ketchup at the shop.
No, problem. If you'll wait one moment, I'll make out your receipt.
It's a lot nicer, and I really like it better.
What a pity. It was quite exciting. Both teams played very well.
It's a great game. There are a lot of new characters.
Really? Are you still playing?
Unbelievable! How do people go through it?
I won ’ t.
Could we go over some things, because I think my test score is wrong.
Take care, Peter. Don't run so fast. Are you tired?
Yes, they should be put in the most attractive place, and this can appeal to passers-by's attention.
Let me see.
I ’ m waiting for a bus and going for a walk in the park.
That's great! You need to prepare for it.
What's the current interest rate?
Sure, I ’ ll go look at apartments with you anytime you want.
Who ’ s the letter from?
Don't mention it. It's been my pleasure.
As much as we can.
Have you written down your return address?
I ’ m sorry?!
Not a problem. Which loan was it you were interested in? Sorry, I must ask, because the interest rates can depend on the type of loan you apply for.
Is this salami and bologna you have here?
About 2 days.
Are you out of your mind?
Oh no, this type gets dirty very easily and it's difficult to clean.
we need lots of things. I ’ ll make a list. We need a bag of sugar, a loaf of bread and a crate of beer.
Certainly, would you wait for a few minutes?
I'd like to make a person-to-person call to Beijing, China. The number is 2135367 8, and I want to speak to Mr. Zhang.
You can get the same product at a much lower price.
Can you spread the word and ask everyone to bring some kind of snack food?
Well, this is my first paycheck here in the States and there are a few things I don't understand. First of all, what is this FICA, and SUI Y tax, and why are there deductions both for Medicare and for my health insurance plan?
I'm afraid you can't.
Sorry to say you failed.
It makes no sense to tell him about that.
I'd like to reserve a table for three at 6:30 this evening.
It is jasmine tea of high quality. It is fragrant and has a pleasant taste.
I get a business address at an expensive location, and I can share the receptionist and secretary with other offices in the same floor.
No problem. Let's check the terms of contract.
How about the monitor?
OK, that's good.
I am fine. In fact, I don't have a scratch on me or my vehicle. But the other guy is in critical condition.
Well, that ’ s good. If you lose your job, you can just move in with me until you find another job. That will save you plenty of money.
Day, I'm home.
Then say it.
most people eat tempura with chopsticks, but you can use a fork if you don't know how to use chopsticks.
Can I collect unemployment benefits?
I have tickets to a show. Do you want to go with me?
Yes, it's a general name for several laws related to economics, like Commercial Law, and Law of Central Bank.
Come on, guy. Maybe she isn't your right person.
Anytime before 6 pm tonight.
Fine. Do you accept American Express?
I'd like to.see you tomorrow.
You ’ Ve been very helpful.
Well, how about fifty percent discount? If so, I'll buy that fur coat.
Yes. My name's Mark Benson. I just started a couple weeks ago.
Me? No way, keep him away from me, please.
What a jerk. He doesn't deserve you.
Women have often played an important role in British history. Queen Elizabeth I built a navy strong enough to fight off the Spanish armada in 1588. more recently, Margaret thatcher transformed british society in the 1980 ’ s.
In Taiwan, prime-time shows are an hour long and most of them aren't comedies.
Good morning, nurse. I want to see the dentist, please.
Damn it! I think I'm going to miss the plane.
Yes, I have. I tried them when I visited your country last year. I thought they were very tasty.Can you cook them?
Well, the tapestry is delicate and beautiful.
Can you give me a quiet room?
Fine, it's the thing for me. I will take it.
He is tall and slim, fair-haired.
Certainly. Would you like it with ice cream?
Well, nothing really serious.
yeah, and most excitingly, I met the girl living under me today. She's really nice.
Good mastery. How do you like our Chinese food?
Isn ’ t that Michael Johnson? I think he set a world record in this race.
Are you all our guests?
You can take the subway to get there
So we can relax now.
Oh, Brian. That ’ s really sweet of you guys. I would love to get together with all of you. How about Friday?
Pretty good. I ’ Ve just had my new poems published.
Thank you very much. We always welcome new customers.
No. Just occasionally.
What room is it?
Yeah, well, actually, one of the problems is that I actually exercise a lot.
Your resume mentioned that you had been the surveyor, which was a concurrent job, of a certain market survey company. What was your main work content?
I will. Thanks for your advice.
Well control is really using common sense when you plan your eating habits.
I liked Aesthetics best. It is very impressive.
15 days. The transportation by air will take five days.
Well, I like collecting matchbox! I'm not sure if that counts, though.
He joked later that I was so poor that he had a kind of impulse to protect an ant.
I ’ Ve already got it. Thanks.
That is true. The weather is constantly changing.
Whatever would you like to drink?
Good.We ' re tired after driving all day, and we're looking forward to relaxing in a comfortable room.
That's the charge for insurance I see on my pay slip each month, right?
I'm not sure, is this our stop?
Operator, I want to make a correct oversea phone call to Beijing.
Yes. I graduated last year and got a job in a press.
You've got it.
The price quoted is for CIF.
No, I was driven by my husband.
Well, I would be happy to assist you in choosing the perfect gift for her. Is there anything particular that you have in mind?
Shall we start decorating the bedroom?
You ’ re great. Could you say it in Chinese?
The most important is that it is very convenient. You know you can browse the website and send E-mails to your customers at any time. Even you can have e-contract with your regular customers.
Hi, I am afraid that the fax machine in my room won ’ t be working till tomorrow. A technician has just come and checked it. He will bring me a new one tomorrow. It seems there is a big problem with mine and it will take some days for repairing. Can I use the one in your office?
So since I got the bottom bunk, why don't you get the desk by the window? That would be more fair.
I've told him how to do that several times, but he's never listened to me.
I am pretty sure that I am in trouble.
Good that way. I can have the suit ready for you two days after that fitting.
All you have to do now is vote.
You should've called in sick! Next time, have either of your parents call the school office.
Yes. There have been a few there recently. They say that this one was not a big quake. The Iranians are dealing with it on their own. They have purchased some special equipment to find people buried u
Umm, I think I would be hard to find something in that range in this area. You know the environment in the south mountain district is the nicest.
That's right. My appointment is for 11 o'clock.
I'll take this one. How much are they?
No dogs or cats or any other fur type animal, but other pets are allowed.
Thirty meters ahead is the Waterloo Bridge.
Of course. You have to fill out the form first.
How much is it in all?
It seems that the inner beauty is also important.
I ’ m going to work at the polling place.
What ’ s the matter? So angry. I ’ m just playing a joke with you.
Which do you prefer, sour peppery soup or four-jewel soup?
Jim likes to travel around the world.That ' s expensive! So he tries to make a lot of money.
What do you mean his grandmothers are already dead? Wait a minute, you don't think he's avoiding me, do you?
I know. The economy here is having serious problems.But because the government declared a default, the currency value went way down.
The plane must fuel before flying to Paris.
Well, that dress certainly shows your good taste. It must have cost a lot.
That may be what I ’ m going to do.
Where to, miss?
Hi! Let me get a dozen croissants, four blueberry muffins and a loaf of sourdough bread.
Never mind, it doesn't matter.
Do you always have meals outside or in your house?
What's your favorite movie?
Yes, and I have the warranty, too.
It doesn't matter, Mr.Lin. I can understand. I know you are always very busy. Work must come first.
Well, could I have coffee instead of orange juice?
$ 100. But we will charge you $ 200 as a deposit.
I don't know how to deal with Jack. He is indeed a trouble maker. He has loused up my business several times.
That's a great idea ; thanks for your help.
Well, it's a wedding gift.
It's been 3 years now.
Yes, a little breeze and a lovely moon.
I'm really sick of waiting for a bus.
Nice pun. What is it you active about him most?
What did you say to your boss?
I have no idea what I want.
Oh, thanks, Mr. Kaufman. We look forward to your visit.
I told her that I'm an excellent team player and that a good boss should treat male and female employees equally.
I think you're making a mountain out of a molehill. It's only a superstition. It really doesn't mean anything.
It's quite famous but don't you think it looks a bit old-fashioned?
Well, I ’ Ve bought a lot of meat. I ’ Ve got pork chops, small steaks, chicken wings, and plenty of hot sausages and hamburger patties.
If China didn't have such a policy, can you imagine how many people there would be in China now?
Have you gotten any special training in programming?
A Sony. It's only one third the size of my old camera and looks rather smart.
All right. Come in on Friday at 11
No, we will have lunch at the museum cafeteria.
I'm sorry. I can't. What does the note say?
The weather is so crazy. It rained cats and dogs last night, but cleared up in the morning.
You'll have a definite answer from us within a week. Goodbye.
I want to take out $ 300.
Yes, of course.It was nice to see you.
How would you do that?
No, not recently.
Yeah, definitely, tomorrow night.
My brother in-law just dropped in from the states.
I wish I could, but I won't.
That's wonderful. By the way, what kind of cabin will I have?
Thank you, but I'd rather keep this case with me.
Not a great week for the world! Any good news?
I don't deny that the refrigerator is of top quality. If you could go a little lower, we'll place the order right away.
Have you ever worked?
Kids are kids.
What kind of college is it?
I'm a doctor.
I wonder if we can change to Channel 26.
Is it chicken?
I'm sorry, sir. Do you wish to try something else? That would be on the house, of course.
We shall open an irrevocable L / C to cover our shipment from Shanghai to Hamburg. Is it at sight or after sight?
Poor us! All this junk food lacks nutrition!
Good afternoon, Lincoln Corporate Services. Lina speaking, how may I help?
hello! How are you today?
OK! Just give her this for me!
How ’ s everything with you today?
Well, she was a very good employee and we wanted to keep her, so her supervisor called her in for a chat and laid it on the line for her. She got the idea and now she saves the trendy styles for evenings and weekends.
Your meal will be delivered as soon as it's all ready. Enjoy!
Oh, the company is the fourth largest machine producer in the world. It was founded in the United States in 1980. I know that the company has made good use of advanced technology.
Don't worry. You can get off at the next stop and go across the street through the overpass. The bus stop is right there.
Yes, yes. She said she is going to stop drinking coffee too and quit all the unhealthy habits just for the baby.
Good question. But I will tell you when you pass the first two.
Which is the best way?
I'd like to make a reservation to Rome.
What time will the flight put me there?
I think that I would be a perfect fit in this company. I have a unique combination of strong technical acumen, and outstanding soft skills. you know, I excel at building strong, long-term customer relationships. For example, when I headed the customer support department in my previous company, our team solved about seventy percent of our customers ’ problems. I decided that we needed better information and technical preparation on our products, so after I implemented a series of training sessions in coordination with our technical department, we were able to solve ninety percent of our customers ’ issues. Given the opportunity, I could bring this kind of success to this company.
I will be prepared to do my presentation.
I wanted to see if I could arrange a meeting with you to discuss recruitment.
I haven't received my credit card bill yet.
I am free that night, and a party sounds good.
You're the first guest to arrive. I'll just put your coat away and then I'll get you something to drink.
"I don't think so actually. She never even says "" hello "" to me."
My stomach was upset.
I see, sir. I'm sure everything will be right next time you come.
Oh, hi, Mary, what can I do for you?
While you are at it can you pick out a nice recliner? I really want one so I can watch TV.
See how many people are here!
But, our business has been going down sharply the couple of months and we have to reduce some staff.
Oh. really? I saw it two years ago. It's worth seeing and it's thought-provoking.
I read about how scientists are using material from plants and animals to create new medicines. For example, an animal be immune to disease that affects human. So, scientists find out why It’s immune
It wouldn't rain in the middle of the summer.
He lost his wallet and keys.
One second, please, while I dig it out. Here.
I see. How much will that cost?
well, the north of Norway is almost always cold, but further south it can be fairly warm in summer. It’s a wet country, so there ’ s snow almost everywhere in winter.
Your assistant gave wonderful directions.
We need to establish routine maintenance procedures. It costs us too much in lost production if we wait until something breaks down before we fix it.
Making a decision to start over is not an easy thing to do. It seems that you need this course more than I do. I love my current job. If I take this course, I hope to learn some tricks to get myself more organized at work. If they can give suggestions about how to boost work relationships, that will be great. I need these to improve my current work performance.
I've never been, but I may start shopping there.
OK. But where is my favorite coffee?
Yes. I caught a number 7 bus yesterday, and they said I had taken a wrong bus.
I heard that there are some beauty spots and places of historical interest in this city.
Oh, I'm terribly sorry. but I couldn't find the yoghurt I saw here last time.
Where were you last night, at exactly 920 pm?
Does that mean I should deposit sufficient money to my account prior to the monthly payment date so that you can directly deduct the repayment of the principal and interest?
I will get better soon.
I am looking for a job myself. What were you thinking of doing next?
May, could you tell me how to solve this problem?
How can you do that?
Hi, how are you doing?
Hold on, my ears are still ringing from the music... what was it you asked me?
Cockroaches have taken over my room!
looks like you'll have to get a place in the suburbs.
Okay, you should take 1 capsule 3 times a day. Be sure not to take it on an empty stomach, and also, don ’ t ever mix it with alcohol!
Sure. The sunny days of spring are ideal for outdoor gatherings.
I hate to tell you this, but it seems that every shred of evidence that would help us to convict were destroyed in a laboratory fire. There's nothing left. I'm so sorry...
Sure. Take your time.
OK. ( Several minutes later. ) Let's go into the school auditorium.
I'm on highway 1-75 going near exit 46.
You had two drinks at nine o'clock. C'mon, Ann, you are in an American university now! You have to learn how to drink.
Yes, she leaves it to me.
Please fill in this exchange form, and I'll need to see your passport, and sign here. That's the money and your passport back. Of course, if you don't spend all of it, you can come back and we'd be happy to buy the local currency back from you.
Tom did me many favors.
No problem, what would you need, Mr. Smith?
You see, your professor wants every one in the class to read the chapter. If one student removes the book from the library, it is likely that none of the other students will have the opportunity to read it. So, your professor has insured that all students have the opportunity to read it by placing it on reserve.
What's your passport No.?
I don't feel like going.
I am interested in Pasadena or Arcadia.
what kind of job are you looking for?
I heard you were on a date last night! So, how did it go? I want all the juicy details!
I'm sorry, that's bad luck.
Didn't anyone stop them?
Cool! Flashy red lines!
Hope that works for you!
Come on, darling. We haven't got much time.
That's quite convenient.Well, would you please buy me some? I am so busy.My room number is 304.
What would you like to eat?
Happy New Year, Bill.
His face broke out and he said it was my fault!
40 hours a week, Monday to Friday, 9 AM to 5 PM with one hour lunch break every day..
Thanks for coming over to help. I really appreciate it. First, could you peel the vegetables? I ’ Ve put them all in the skin and there ’ s a peeler.
I suppose you're right. But what can I do? I don't know what to write down.
How is the result of your lab test?
No other city can match it. It's heaven.
Certainly. May I ask who ’ s calling, please?
Me neither. All I have to do is study French hard.
This way, please. We've got a nice private for you.
I ’ d prefer wine. You?
You must specify an address of the place where you will spend most of your time.
You know, smoking does do harm to your health.
Wow! Look at the time. lt's about 11 0 ' clock.
Hello, Wendy speaking.
You're right. I'm not going to play games during school anymore.
I haven't even told you what it is yet!
But that way you're not savoring it.
Hmm... I'd like the cheaper one, please. Can I pay hy cheque?
Do you know where they're vacationing?
Do I have to pay extra?
I hear what you're saying, and I wish there were something I could do.
That just isn't good enough. Cet me your general manager. I want to speak to him now.
How did your previous employers treat you?
I don't blame you, sir. Two dollars is a lot of money.
Is there anything else? How about my salary?
May I have your flight number, please?
How many times did you stab the victim?
How long have you been lifting weights?
I might just! Enjoy your stupid game!
Yeah, that ’ ll be great. I ’ m on extension 4283.
Yes, definitely! You can't drive freely!
Bruce. By the way. Can we have a table by the window?
They could generally be divided into two categories, direct and indirect contaminant sources.
That's why you can't open it. You'll have to upgrade before you can read the file.
Not particularly. I like fat girls.
Do I get a card?
Well, when is the election?
Mr. Bellow, have you anything in mind as to what to drink or may I make a few suggestions?
Yes. in some sense. I should say I like mountain climbing, you know, because I'm not so professional. How about you?
You seem excited about it.
Oh, any chance of a table by the window? My wife loves the bird's eye view. As it's her birthday, I want it to be a celebration.
In that case I highly recommend you apply for a savings and checking account also. That would help with your credit card application.
I have complete confidence in our new President.
Come and meet our employees, Mr. Richards.
I'll see what I have got. What's it for?
What kind of sport do you often do?
I am a student engineer who mainly took charge of understanding of the mechanical strength and corrosion resistance of various materials.
Yeah. I need to.
Thank you for your letter.
Are the animals caged?
I already know all of them.
I don't know what else to drink.
I have a reservation for a single with a bath.
Please allow me to introduce myself. My name is Li Hua. Nice to meet you.
I have a room registered in your hotel. My name is Charles Hill.
What do you think about studying in the U. S.?
In what department do you wish to work if we hire you?
I think you'd better try an active job.
You won a lottery? Don ’ t beat around the bush, just tell me, please.
No, I shall faint.
I promise I will take the first chance to call on you. Please send your wife with my best regards.
we've got plenty to choose from here.
we'll pick you up at your place at noon. Be there or be square!
Excuse me, is there a department store near here?
I bet. You must be stoked.
What dressing would you like on the salad?
Well, you sound ill over the phone.
I'm glad I asked you. So this is aisle 6 where I can find all the canned fruits and vegetables.
Because he beat me first when I tried to stop him from grabbing my bag and running away.
Yes we checked on just now.
You're supposed to stand here quietly until the flag - raising ceremony is over.
That's out of the question.
Certainly, Madam. What would you like to know?
What about the rest? How do you get rid of it?
We usually get a big thunderstorm every two weeks, but apart from that, summers are dry. Thunderstorms make the air fresh again, so most people don ’ t mind then.
Ah, hello. I'm calling to find out how I apply for a car loan.
I was very tired after working all week. Sometimes on the weekend I don't have enough energy to go out to a movie theater.
Thank you. But a number of things have been going wrong lately.
I want to apologize. Is there anything can do for you?
Really? He is so great.
An average ten hours or more a day according to a survey, the worst thing is that the employees get no pay for that.
Yes, it's a Macintosh. It's Apple. Mcintosh and Apple are the same thing.
Great. Then what's your technical post title now?
Honestly, it is one of the funniest movies I've seen in a long time.
the head office is in New York, but I'll be dealing with overseas companies and flying to this side of the world from time to time.
I wish you would not be so selfish.
Oh, to rent.
Never mind. Let's go to the falls and try again.
Business. I have a trade convention I'm attending in Chicago.
How do you total our scores?
What kind of documents did you need to present?
Well. If it breaks down again tomorrow, I'll definitely buy a new one.
No, this is the first time on a plane. Maybe you are right.. Please get me some pills.
Sorry, but he's not in. May I take a message for you?
Yes, I need a job that can give full play to my skills.
I had a wonderful experience with writers.
Everything in this magazine seems expensive. You could probably find something similar in a discount furniture store.
We need to consider several other applicants and we hope to make a decision by the end of this month. We will call you regardless of whether you are hired or not.
Good morning. I'm calling to ask if you have a vacant apartment.
It is. It’s got pictures of interesting building from all over the world, with brief descriptions of how they were build, their purpose, and so on.
I got offered a new job!
We're all familiar with natural disasters. but we still feel weak when we face Wenchman earthquake.
You can check them from the fax yesterday.
I hate to complain, but this soup is too salty.
The total for all these items comes to $ 36.78.
This all looks good! I think we know what we want.
This one? This one is so light I can barely read it. How can that be?
No, that's OK. Do you have any whole wheat bread?
Christmas is also a special time for us to have the family reunion and to express our best wishes to those we love and those who love us in the coming new year.
Listen. This is an emergency. I tried to call my doctor, but he is out of town. So I can't see him in time. I need this medicine. It is for skin condition. I've run out.Can you just refill it once more?
He should know that this is against the Labor Law in our country. Legally, employees should get double pay if asked to do extra work during the weekend or on holidays.
I think we have everything in the contract. Shall we sign it?
Yes, even in the winter.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, sir. What exactly is problem?
that sounds nice. Do you want to share some kebabs as well?
Great. Here it is.
All right, but please remember that it is your responsibility to catch up.
Hi honey! What ’ s wrong? Why do you have that look on your face?
I want to take part in the bus tour. When does the bus leave?
Yes, just a moment, please.
I will never forget Linda. After all, she was my first lover.
You would be using mainly English in this job. Do you think you can make yourself understood in English with ease?
You ’ re a wonderful person, Kathleen.
It seems that many boys are fighting there.
Does he have to be admitted to hospital?
I like rumba and tango.
I don't know. It's hard. But I have to learn.
Well, Mr. Zhang, you must know, what we need is a capable accountant, and we won't have enough time to tell him some other things.
Who is the director?
What else do I need to do?
Let me check. Yes, we can.
Ok, wait one minute. I must remember where I left the keys.
Don't be addicted to the game. It's not good for your job.
Certainly. May I see your social security and your ID, please.
Have you decided what wine you would like?
Masha and Hero are getting divorced.
Do you want any milk?
I know. It's going to be so much fun.
It takes a little more time. We have to check the ads in the paper.Probably also there are special real estate magazines with ads.Then we have to drive to the homes and look at them.
yes. Look in that drawer. I should throw the old one out.
I asked the first company about the vacancy, but they had already hired someone.
Hello, Fred. What are you doing?
What's the specialty of the house?
Oh don ’ t worry, sweetie, I didn ’ t know when you were going to propose. It was still a nice surprise! As I was saying, I ’ Ve got it all planned out. There ’ s almost nothing left to do! I wrote up our guest list and we will have roughly four hundred guests attending.
Have you eaten?
Yes, there's one just on the other side of this building. Do you have any small change?
Are they going to stay here with us?
let me know if you hear about any good bands playing on the weekends. I have more free time then.
Oh, is that so?
I hope my baggage aren't overweight.
In the last Olympics, we did very well in swimming, cycling and ball sports. I think we ’ ll do well in those same events.
They can't spell, they can't add, they can't subtract, they even don't remember any more. that's because they rely on gadgets.
A gold watch!
That's true, and we have been on this bus for a while.
when will you find out?
They always make the front yards look so great for Open Houses. Let ’ s see what the inside looks like.
how do you spend your afternoons?
Do you think the rain is going to let up soon?
Maybe we can think of something somewhere between a chick flick and a horror movie!
Hello, Mr. Clark. You ’ re early for lunch. It’s only eleven o ’ clock.
Is that how you feel on the bus?
That ’ s all right. Then see you on Friday afternoon.
Yes. The reservation under Mr. Watson.
What are you doing to your house?
Use this lipstick and it will make your lips shine!
All right. Here are our F. O. B. price lists. All the prices are subject to our final confirmation.
Ok, see you tonight! Don ’ t be late!
Get a transfer from the bus driver.
This Friday? Sorry, I already have plans.
Let me check. Yes. Your one thousand remittance, please.
My older sister Judy will be here soon to help. She already has a boy and a girl of her own...
Yes, Jane was quite upset about it. The manager came to apologize and we did get free dessert, but still...
It's seriously affecting my life! I can't sleep, I don't have much of an appetite and my husband says I've been kind of short tempered. Other people seem to handle stress okay... why am I so weak?
Alright. Thanks a lot. Don ’ t worry. I ’ ll take care of it.
No, sir.The tax is included.
I am sure they will be pleased.
Ok, shall I make a coffee first?
Our profit margin is in the neighborhood of 20 %.
Firstly, you must always show your best to the interviewer. And secondly, try to avoid spamming through e-mails, because this will make the reader go crazy. The last but not the least, there is no substitute for pounding the pavement in such a digital age.
What? What is it? What's the matter?
For the bank manager?
Yes, please. That's being processed now. As soon as the account is set up, we can issue you with a card.
Only a week.
Can I borrow your Cds for our school dance?
It's 45132.
I'am absolutely sure I'm right.
Can you sew on these buttons?
I was looking through the ads today, and I found it in there.
Excuse me, sir, but are you Mr. Richard of World Trading Company?
At least you ’ re doing your part. My contribution is to have a pet in the house that I treat like a member of the family.
Yet Julia is not a patch on Anne because she's not as diligent and clever as Anne.
They're doing a seventeenth-century program.
Yes. When do you want it?
Yeah! But you know sometimes the weather forecast is not correct. Maybe tomorrow is a clear day. Who knows?
The door bell doesn't work, there's no hot water, and the building is falling apart.
It skips around.
You know, maybe we could get her some concert tickets. Who would know her favorite groups?
it quit working last week and I haven't had a chance to buy a new one yet.
Ok, who is that girl?
Yes, maybe I should have another try.
The Redskin ’ s quarterback just threw a touchdown pass for seven points. We ’ re losing again.
Here you are. You look younger in yellow.
Hello. I was wondering if Taylor Smith has checked out yet?
Yes, so I think she is suitable for you.
Ah, yes. Mr Can, isn't it? Yes, the money has been transferred successfully. But you'll need to change it into RIB before you can have it.
No, it's not necessary since the stone is not big.
Would you like someone to walk you over to the Student Health Center?
Let's stop at the newsagent, I would like to buy a newspaper. We can also buy postcards for your friends.
Yeah, but I don't know if it is going to be any good.
Where will you go in your vacation?
Could I see that, please?
Do you know which channel it is on?
I give you my word, you must feel refreshed after mountain climbing.
You did a fabulous job.
It’s easy, grandpa. Insert you card into the machine here. Then wait a moment. OK. Now you enter your PIN. It should have four numbers.
It's a problem. You'd better move.
Tell me a little bit about yourself, please.
I want some coffee.
How old are you, Su?
Now I understand. But I don't smoke or drink.So what am I supposed to buy in here?
OK darling, got some pizzas, potato chips, hot dogs and lots of cheese!
The next thing you should do is to wait. The sender will give you the fax.
No. The company pays for everything. Doesn't this sound very attractive? This is why our company can always get the best employees!
How many people will be traveling?
Oh, actually, Tuesday ’ s no good. Sorry about that.
No, it'll be over soon. Nurse, get some X-rays of our patient's molars. Then we'll start. Open your mouth wide. Don't be so nervous. Now open wider... now stay, that's over...
don't you think It’s a bit bright?
Loan me that tape recorder you have. And don't say anything to anyone until I come back.
Oh, buddy, you are so kind. Thank you!
Carla, I know you ’ re kind of new in this business and I want to give you some advice.
well, actually two-thirds of Americans may avoid these places.
How did you meet her?
Can I reserve a room from the 13th to the 18th?
Yes. He said I'm his dream girl.
OK. I'd like to have everything gift-wrapped, please.
Unfortunately, sir, you'll have to pay the $ 2, whether you like it or not.
Then my son drove into a tree.
Is it possible to get a beer?
Do you want the whole amount in traveler's check?
how long do you think it will take us to complete the walk?
Why not! These orders are not urgent. We could do it first thing tomorrow morning
Well, I hear David have been fired.
Well sir, as you know, I have been an employee of this prestigious firm for over ten years.
Yes. I ’ ll be very busy! I have to get a visa, buy a plane ticket, and pack my things. But first, I want to register for classes.
Sorry, We don't take returns on sale items.
Yeah, but scented tea is now in fashion.
We have three kinds of dressings for salad. Italian, French and Thousand Island. Which one would you like?
I see Mike farmer has make it into the Olympic team. He beat the national record by 0.1 of a second.
That takes some time.
That's great. Then we won't fight over taking the same ride.
Sunny-side up, please.
My name is Benjamin, and I live in Broad-Gate Street 2101.
Can I have an aisle seat, PLS.
How large a group are you expecting?
I work quite well with a team. I ’ m a good team player. I respect people, cooperate well with member ’ s team. And I will do my best to help team members.
Yes, sir. What'll it be for you?
Do you want me to wake you up when dinner is ready?
Hi. I want to place an order, please.
I disagree, a big town is more lively.
It's your turn, sir. I'm sorry that you had to wait. Saturday is a busy day for us.
I ’ Ve only two rooms on the first floor. How about room 108?
Thanks for reminding me. I ’ Ve prepared some party games for the children too.
Would you please fill out this currency declaration form? It's a record of the foreign currency you have brought in.
Sure. It's probably the skiing show. Adam told me there were many skiing clubs whose members put on shows to attract more visitors.
Passport and Embarkation card please.
Ok, on that day, boys usually give roses to the sweet hearts and girls give them chocolate to return.
Yes, there are. They are not very big compared with the mountains in other countries.
Well, in the past, three or four generations would live together under the same roof. Nowadays, living in the same city as one's relatives is becoming rare.
Do you have any breaks?
What is the greenhouse effect exactly?
Sounds as if you come from a professional family.
I'm allergic to these things, you know.
Our staff will bring you your order in as short a time as possible.
It means he ’ s really badly injured, but he will almost certainly survive.
Well, the position is for an account manager. That basically means that I would be the link between our and our development team.
I know where to get them from.
Thanks, I think so too.
that ’ s not a problem. It’s unnecessary for this position.
I think we should get half a kilo of minced beef and a few pork chops.
That ’ s ok, keep going, you ’ re moving ahead by leaps and bounds. Watch your dynamics! Keep your elbows lifted. Remember to stroke the keys, don ’ t pound. That ’ s better! Remember that as a pianist or any other musician, your technique will be what separates you from the pack just as much or more so as your musicianship.
I hope the host team loses.
That's too bad. I can't wait that long. I have another appointment at ten.
So what are you trying to say to me?
What about your accounts?
Check out this article. It says smoking can lead to lung cancer.
Well if so.you should contact with the office over there.Maybe they will do you some help.
A little. Are you American?
even those. It'll be very romantic, I think. You'll have loads of fun.
I don't know. But they say that Mrs. Smith wears the pants in the house.
He said that he had a really bad cold.
Look! It is not working well. Did you try out the bike when you bought it.
May and Daniel often like this kind of weather.
How about the words of the song?
Hello, I hope to get a room for the night.
You know, about David and his new boss.
Come on. Getting a tan symbolizes health and wealth in western countries.
If you indeed don't know how to answer, admit it frankly.
We have all shapes, sizes, qualities and price ranges, do you know about the four Cs of picking a diamond?
Oh, My chance is slim then.
I am sorry.
Well, I don't feel right about it.
I look at many things, attendance, quizzes, and tests.
Yes, I do. I was born and bred here.
So, you're a serious coffee drinker.
Excuse me, please show me that business suit, the dark one.
How do you manage your time in a typical day?
Liquor is considered a luxury item.And also, it is considered as something that isn't very healthy.So if people want to buy it, the government thinks it has the right to tax it.
Well, to be honest, I just don ’ t think we ’ re going to have enough funds to give the kind of bonuses you have in mind.
I was missing you too.
not yet. But I am thinking of inviting her to dinner sometime. I know some good restaurants nearby.
This position requires a high level of English ability. How is your spoken and written English?
Three thousand dollars.
Do you want to practice your driving right now?
I look forward to more of scientists.
Front view, please.
You'll enjoy our new, clean taxis, sir.
The teacher should give us more time to complete this assignment.
It's a Taiwanese puppet doll.
Certainly, a beer. Here you are, sir.
Yes, we can pack the goods according to your instructions.
22 miles to the M25, 33 miles on the M25, and 3 after that. That ’ s a total of 58 miles, isn ’ t it?
I just think the humor was too gross. There were too many disgusting things in it. I don't think a comedy has to have so much smut to be funny.
Good morning.Are you Mr.Liu?
Welcome to Galant. How can I help you?
It doesn't matter because we will still have to call the electrician out, and they are union labor. It'll cost you a pretty penny...
because it's off-season, we got a really good package deal to Paris, so we went there.
Yes, please, I'll need a ride. I'll be waiting for you then.
Yes, at the end of the hall.
C'mon. You'll feel better and look better and as a reward you can eat a little bit of ice cream here and there.
A boss likes him a lot. He says Jim is a good team player.
A two-bedroom house in this area is generally around 250,000 RIB.
No, mom. I haven't seen it.
What's the creditor's equity?
Are you riding? You have to install an anti-virus software on your computer. If not, you will be attacked by viruses, and it can lead your computer into failure.
The small one, just down the street. I like their generic brand.
You have done excellent work.
I don't like Hamburgers. They have no taste.
Ok, let's think about it for a minute.
Okay, I'll get the car out of the garage.
Science? That's a surprise.
I'm sorry, but I don't think so.
Oh, that's right. They're filming a movie up there, aren't they?
Have you ever played Making?
Good. Now the other eye.
OK! Before that I'll take this one as you.
Yes, the wine list is at the end of the menu.
So what does this plan include?
I would like to file a complaint.
I ’ m afraid I ’ m busy tonight. I ’ m having dinner with friends.
OK, Sir. We will arrange it for you.
yes, I did. I won a prize for best local history book at the annual book awards.
how long have you been in to pop music, then?
Where are we going to visit today?
My name is Terry. I stayed last night in your hotel in room 132.
Maybe I should go home.
Hey, look outside! It's started to drizzle!
I'm Li Ming from CITS. Glad to see you.
Do you have anyone in mind?
Certainly, as long as you don't tell my wife.
if you do have to drive, you should make sure that your car runs on unleaded petrol. Also, your home should use sources of renewable energy.
Isn't it awful? I can't bear to look at it. I don't think I can stand this place for two weeks.
I don't think they sell Kit Kats.
Could you cover for me on Tuesday? I'm not coming back until Wednesday.
Yes, she's a professional climber.
Yes, hope you like it. Do you need beer or wine?
I hear you're entering the speech contest, Mike.
Your boyfriend, Bryan, wanted to toss the football. I think he wore me out.
Yeah, how do you know about that?
I guess you think twice next time he comes.
Well, there's a lot of stress in a Chinese company also, although much of it is below the surface. I have confidence in my ability to handle conflict. If I have a problem with a co-worker, I do everything I can to work it out directly with that person. If I am unable to work it out, then I ask a supervisor to help out. If my boss shouts at me, I try not to take it personally. I try my best to understand the stress he is under. It's kind of like being in a family. Often family members say things in the heat of the moment, but don't mean what they say. A company is like a family, it has good times and bad times.
A man sent Miss Smith flowers, and Bryan got kicked out of class!
Yes, I want to buy some grapes.
Can you give me a ride back home?
Yeah, let me have a try.
Aw come on! It’s just some innocent fun! You know how these things are! We are gonna play drinking games, get him some gag gifts and just have a good time. Nothing too over the top.
I won't do it again. Please forgive me.
Is this the right bus for San Francisco?
So I need plenty of space for this exercise.
Which one do you mean?
I would prefer Chinese food for this party.
That was very lazy of you.
Hello. 9-1- 1. Can I help you?
I'm afraid there aren't any left at the moment. Gan you wait just a little while?
OK. How do you like your steak, do you like it rare, medium or well done?
I would like to exchange Chinese money into German currency please.
Fine with me, but no more chafing dish.
But he has suffered a lot.
He should be back in ten minutes. Could 1 you call back later?
That ’ s exactly what I ’ m getting at. We ’ re supposed to be able to do our preparation and marking in that office, but have you noticed? Jack constantly has students coming in to get help with his course. A lot people are going in and out.
Excuse me, sir. I am coming to apply for the position of accountant.
"But you saw how skinny and pale he looks. He has "" cancer patient "" written all over his face."
What a pity! Then how about Sunday?
Hi, I ’ m Cindy, the office clerk. What can I do for you?
If you come to the park in the morning, you can find squirrels running on the lawn.
Excuse me, what's the time difference between Tokyo and London?
Manhattan Square, please.
Yes, that can be done here. Just make sure you keep the exchange form and the receipt and you can come back at the end of your stay and we'll be only to happy to change it back into foreign currency.
Were you looking at a particular refrigerator?
It's very considerate of you to do so. Do you have any laundry today?
I also know you must still have strong feelings for her, but try to think of all the bad things. You know she didn't treat you that well. Is that the person you want to spend the rest of your life with?
Well, I'd rather see a movie.
A double cheeseburger sounds good.
Would you mind waiting a while?
Hi Julie, how are things going?
What do you think of your present job?
Oh, I ’ ll go to shanghai to practice there.
I get 250 yuan from you, and this is the change, 10 yuan.
Let me see... I'm sorry, but we don't have any more non-smoking rooms.We won't charge you for your room tonight.
Are you sleepy?
Put it this way – it wasn ’ t cheap.
Yes... ah! I forgot to include my e-mail address.
they are doing well.
No, it can't be. Really? Who?
If you really want to do something and you work hard at it, I believe you can do it.
Oh, she likes keeping us on our toes by getting us use English throughout the class. She doesn't mind your making mistakes, though.
What would you like to change?
I think that we could also produce some merchandise for the centenary-you know, T-shirts, mugs, plates, pens, and things like that.
I just got a letter from an old high school buddy.
Happy birthday to you! I'd really love to come, but I'm not sure right now. I'll try to make it.Thank you for your invitation.
Did you? And what course did you take there?
you can't train them like you can train dogs, but you can train them to do some things. For example, you can train them to go the bathroom in a special rabbit toilet.
Then a PC should be enough. Macintoshes are better for graphics, but they also cost a bit more.
Just a moment, please. I'm sorry but the flights are fully booked on that day. The next available flight is on May 2nd. They have two flights, one is at 9:30 a. m. and another at 2:00 p. m. Both flights have seats available.
It won't be long until your food is delivered. I know you'll enjoy it.
OK. What can I do if l want to cancel the ticket?
This doctors thing is so sus.
I ’ m thinking about it. How much is it?
Ah, ah, ah...
I felt OK when I woke up, and then, suddenly, I had this really sharp pain.
"So the "" Happy Birthday "" song has been popular since then? "
"How about "" As long as You Love Me ""! You can pretend you're singing it to your fiancee Brooke! "
I got a character part — some old lady who shows up in a few scenes.
2244 Forest Drive.
Wow. You must have been pretty far away from the city.
I sure will. Thanks.
Please hold on, I'll just check with the delivery department.
Yes, we'll need to fill in this form, for fund trading and this one, for subscribing for and / or applying for purchasing fund units. The minimum is 500 RIB.
There is a songbook. All the words are in the songbook.Many people have to read the words.
Why? You are so excellent. I think you are the most suitable person for the job.
What do you think of it?
I'm totally vibing with this this book.
If you agree to pay more money, you could upgrade the carpet.
My birthday present? I can't help telling you that I am a happy woman, darling. I will come back soon. ( Go to her bedroom and wear the new dress, then show it to Steven. )
Only books or videos.
I have an AIR pass card and I want to withdraw money from the bank.
And I think I'll look in on a few other Employment Agencies while I ’ m downtown, to see what they have.
OK, but don't forget I'm here for you, and I know how you feel. It's my loss, too.
Yes, let's total it.
And I take the dog for a walk every Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.
Bye! I'll be back before seven.
Yeah, I think I'll go.
Mom, am I like a superman? All I need is a cape.
All right. Where do you live, sir?
Daddy, I am so glad you come out with us.
Bruh, that my new phone was on point.
About 2 % in normal operations.
Yes, I used to dispatch telex to shippers and the consignee to inform them of changes of our schedule and other information.
I thought it the same day service. Anyway, please do a hurry.
I'd like to talk to her about my accommodation situation.
That ' s why the program has attracted so many star-wanna-bes.
That's fine. I'll do that then.
When do you want it delivered?
Ten or about five minutes. You'll be all set.
I'm okay with walking.
Yes. Here they are.
If you got a smaller car, the cost should be a little less depending on the model, age, and size. Would you still want full coverage?
Yeah, I think I'll get this one-piece.
Yes precisely. Although I was born in the US, I would definitely call London home. But as you see I ’ Ve actually spent a lot of my life moving from country to country. My Father was in the oil business
Please take a careful look at these five men.
He is known as American's greatest president. Do you know why? Because he fought against slavery and secession at a time in history where others were too afraid to do anything. He succeeded because of his ambition and generous spirit.
It says that traditionally, give something made of paper.
Oh, my CV. Yes, here it s. There are three copies.
Hi, I think I was supposed to call for my test results today.
I know. It really makes a mess of the whole election process.
Hi, this is Ralph Simmons. With whom am I speaking?
Yes, but I'm not sure what exactly I would need.
As I said, I'd go round the world.
Do you think I could borrow the car? I ’ m going to a concert tonight.
I have a friend that said something about a place called Price Club.Do you know about that?
I ’ m paid 2,000 yuan per month plus some allowances and bonus as that come to about 3,000 yuan a month. How much will you pay me?
Mark, you are not telling me the truth. Now why?
Very well, thank you.
That would be a good idea.
He said I should put on something very nice, because this girl will be my next target.
Yes, but there is nothing inside the drawers or on the desk.
We hope to make a decision in the next few days. We'll notify you of our decision by mail, is this convenient for you?
Sure that ’ s fine.
I want to work in a restaurant.
Oh, how could it be?
Look at this bridge. We will soon be crossing the Thames.
Wonderful. I ’ d like to know why you ’ re interested in this position at our paper.
They asked me to go to Paris to check on the new office that was just established there. And you?
I've looked for, but I didn't see any black ink.
I feel sorry, but that's the decision of the directorate.
Hello, welcome to the International Business Counter, Sir. What can we do for you today?
Now, as for the room, sir, do you prefer smoking or nonsmoking?
Yes, and I hope that it does.
Hello, may I speak to you for a few minutes?
You think it's funny. I'm terrified.
It's quite cold this early morning, isn't it?
I'll use my VISA, if that's okay.
Excuse me. Mr. Emory?
After being raised together, men and women can be business-like in each other ’ s company. It really doesn ’ t have anything to do with the way a man and woman behave toward each other when they are in love. Does that answer your question?
No, I don't think I need to do that.
Right. That one. Did it work?
Excuse me, I'm looking for your casual short-sleeved shirts. Can you tell me where those are?
what's the problem?
Yes, I've found a wonderful property I wish to buy. Unfortunately, I just don't have access to the cash.
Are you applying to study or work abroad?
Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to interview for this position.
What a surprise! Thanks.It ' s beautiful.
I'm try to write a letter to one of our clients, But I just don't know exactly what to say, I don't even know how to get started, I know I should write dear Mr. Mrs. or Ms., but the problem is I don't know the name of contact person.
Good morning. What seems to be the problem?
56 Edison Ave, Apartment 39, Los Angeles.
I was hoping to leave by 9 o'clock so that it won \ ' t be too hot for the hike.
Great. They've all got built-in TVs.
Sorry, the stacks are closed to undergraduate students.
Remember that you are in college now, not high school.
I thought you were my friend and would support me on this! I just want to feel better about myself and feel more attractive.
What would it be like?
Yes. That would be good.
This is the schedule for the project. Any comments or questions?
That's pretty good. By the way, what are you doing next Saturday?
Yeah! I bought it the day it was released.
Just like you celebrate Christmas, we celebrate our lunar New Year's Day, the Spring Festival. It is a time for the family members and relatives to have a get-together.
I'm looking for some blush. Do you still have some in peach rose?
That ’ s a lot of money.
The competition will begin in 5 minutes, it's tense here.
The government will never fulfill their promise.
I saw your car outside, so I stooped by.
You ’ re welcome. I prefer a window seat.
It’s ready to go.
Here's to our friendship and health!
Hello, is this house keeper?
Hey, you look great! how's everything?
Yes, that happens.
Thank you. Oh, it tastes excellent.
No, I'm not. I'm going to look for an apartment.
Do you know of anyone who needs a roommate?
What's the time now?
Oh, that's the only place where jeans are not popular. I'd better just go home.
It's our pleasure. We are always happy to have another satisfied customer. Thanks for calling. Goodbye.
Certainly madam, what kind of coffee would you like?
I saw him perfectly.
Yes. Thank you very much. Mr. Yang.
Yes. That would be better.
but you two used to do everything together. I thought you really enjoyed each other's company.
You mean it is a still virtual game. Your friends steal your vegetables time and time again, and you take theirs as well, right?
It’s fun meeting new people.
You are right. But what if an avalanche happened?
And they will yell back at you.
Yes. We don't want everyone to burn their mouths and have a drink gallons of water! OK. I ’ m really to do the meat. Should I cook it over a low flame?
You're welcome. Happy couples need mutual understanding.
Why not try it on?
how did you do on your BELTS exam?
I'm not familiar with that part. Let me call someone in charge.
They got me a part-time tutoring job, teaching an Australian businessman Chinese.
and you don't have to work under that much pressure and control.
Oh, it's too expensive. Can't you make it any cheaper?
How long is the layover in Melboume?
I really have to go.
Don ’ t be angry with them. After all, they are still children.
How about this one? It's on sale for only 35 dollars.
I don ’ t know about that ; with all the uncertainty in the markets right now, it would be a very unwise decision to invest. I don ’ t know if you ’ re aware son, but there has been a lot of turmoil in the markets recently. There have already been half a million layoffs in the last few months, and we have no idea how the proposed stimulus package will impact the economy. There ’ s just too much instability. I wouldn ’ t feel comfortable investing in this climate.
To be honest, I ’ m not, and I regret a little what I have done.
I expect to work hard, madam.
Your offer is way off the mark. It set me back only sixty-five.
Make sure you come here before noon. I will be picking up my friend at the airport in the afternoon.
Could you possibly give me a lift home?
It's impossible for me to get to sleep right now.
Un... I think it can be a time-waster and it depends on how particular people are about what they want to see... Mm, it can just be a sort total amusement for someone and totally consuming without reallyconsidering what it is they're watching.
I will, thank you.
Hello, Oriental Hotel.
Please go to receive optometry first over there.
I see you have several good ideas. Now, I just have a few questions about your C. V. I notice that there is a five-year gap between your last job and now.
Really? You're an amazing bargain hunter! Next time there's a sale, promise you'll let me tag along with you.
OK. I ’ ll check the lost and found and with the bar manager. We'll do our best to find it.
Ok. Who should I report to?
People who have just got married feel that the world is right before them.
Sorry, I don't smoke.
My name is Daniel Adams and my flight number is 374.
Of course, we have.
You look upset.What ' s wrong?
That is all right.
This is Mr. Stewart. Who ’ s this?
Usually the commission is three percent of the net invoice amount after deduction of discounts.
What's the nature of your visit? Business or pleasure?
None that I can think of.
Maybe I am a Barbie Doll, but I won ’ t do Barbie Doll things.
The popular tour of the season is a 14 - days ' sightseeing to Venice. Are you interested in that city?
well, we can use public transport instead of taking our cars for a start.
OK. And would you please get me some hot water, too? I think I need to take some medicine.
But look at them! They've forgotten about the wet cement and they're walking across it to put up the notice!
Hello. What can we do for you today?
I want to get my license.
And a typical example has been the Chinese athletes at the Beijing Olympics, right?
Yes. So am I. But what will he do after graduation? He really needs to go to college.
You're welcome, and I apologize for the inconvenience.
Yes. I'd like to use a safety deposit box.
Yes, Mother, but my arm is longer.
I have some shirts that need laundering, and I ’ d like my suit pressed.
In reading you need to recognize language by seeing the words on the page and knowing what they are. In writing you have to produce language, you have to create your own words on a blank page.
I have a spasm of nausea and dizziness.
Then it wasn't meant to be. Some people have put up a hard fight for some items I bid on. But I was the sole bidder for this bag and got it dirt-cheap.
Say, do you go to see your grandparents often?
OK. Do I turn on the lights or do I go straight?
How about some chicken, ground beef, and some steak?
Don't rush, behave yourself please! Let the people get off first.
Should I enclose this commercial paper with these two letters?
not yet. I am still looking through the classifieds. Wish me luck.
How about making Hong Kong the port of shipment instead of New York?
May I have your name card? I am always concerned about the newest computer.
you might not believe this, but I used to be twice the size than I am now!
It depends on the weather.
What ’ s going to be covered in the orientation?
Yes. Do I need to sign my name here?
I'm always at your service, sir. By the way, did you have a pleasant trip?
I think it's bleeding.
OK, I completely understand.
ok, shall I flag down the waitress?
OK, well after you take one out of that second drawer, you put your name on the top. Do you see?
Yes, it is. You describe someone we both know.
At 10,45. Is Ann coming along?
Well, that's my opinion.
Maybe. How much is a room?
Sorry to trouble you. But I don't think this fish is fresh. It actually tastes a bit off.
Do you know that working overtime in some companies is a regular thing?
Yes, that's my only day off until Thursday.
I would like the two clothes washed.
I like slim girls, so I doubt I would find a plump girl attractive. You ’ ll have to give me some more information.
Will you travel by sea or by air?
Would you like cash back?
No, I don't risk it.
I don't understand why I can't just pay you.
It’s for a book.
Now I came back to the hotel and try to show it to my friend, the pen is broken, I am afraid.
Here. How do you like this one?
Let's change the subject.
My stomach hurts, Doctor.
Yes, we will depart in 10 minutes.
What ’ s your job?
And then what did happen?
How big is your family?
No, thank you. I'm just looking. Maybe later I might need your help.
Honey, I'm sorry. I promise you, this summer vacation, I will take you to Huang-Shan Mountains. It is more beautiful and magnificent.
An international one from Seattle.
I'd like to two roast beef sandwiches and one fruit salad, please.
Yes. Ms. Gray. Is there something wrong?
Well, I really appreciate your coming today.
Thanks. I am starving. Tom, what are you getting?
Yes, sir. May I help you?
Hello, is that Miss Lan? This is Nina with Huawei Corp.
All of the Chinese are proud of the Great Wall. And it was built before the In dynasty near Shan Haiguan-the First Pass in the World.
Sure, bob! I ’ m on chapter 12 now, so I ’ m almost finished.
hey, Mary, what's up?
We can do that, but it will cost... If we have to check our inventory with all our guys on overtime, you're looking at an increased cost of, I'd say, maybe 10 %.
Don ’ t judge a book by its cover. Do you Kwon what It’s about?
Hello, Miao Ping. Yes, it has. I've been in Saudi Arabia for the last 6 weeks on business. I did have a little time to relax in Dubai, though.
Oh wow. How was it?
How are the children doing in your class, Jane?
My rate is $ 150 an hour.
I wish the store close to us was open 24 - house a day.
I ’ ll give you a call around 6:00 and stop by around 6:30.
Oh, wait a second, you seem really familiar, I think I know you from somewhere.
Is there a better tailor's around here?
That ’ s all right. Let me see, oh, that lace looks so unique, and It’s so creative to make a picture display here. How did you get that idea?
How much are you asking for this?
This one is our cheapest.
I want to come in at 2
I'm in such a need of the job that I can't afford any mistakes.
He has had a fever for one day. Just now at home, he had febrile convulsions with teeth and fists clenched and eyes turned up. We were at a loss what to do. We called an ambulance and brought the baby here.
I hope that they have a good menu. Most coffee shops only have coffee and Danish.
I have had disagreement with every director. I ’ Ve worked with. We ’ Ve always disagreed in a friendly way and we have always resolved our differences. It was the same when I made this movie. I don ’ t know where rumours of my disagreement with Rachel Kelly come from. We got on very well and I hope to work with her again. I enjoyed making the movie very much.
Was it on the shelf?
This is the room 1425, we asked for the room service an hour ago.
I understand.And according to the terms on the contract, I am happy to accept this job. I look forward to it.
Is there a city where it's always warm?
Yes. We are looking for someone who are well-educated and have all-round experience as a manager.
I certainly was! However, the doctor gave me a list of food I couldn ’ t eat for another 72 hours, and steak was on the list!
Our bass section is really good. You're going to love singing with them.
what is it?
It covers an area of 75,000 square meters.
Bout side claim a small area of territory. Both sides tried to build border fences and began attacking each other.
Yeah, that ’ s the best part. All of my children can get free medical care.
We have received your letter and resume, and we thought we would like to ask you to come here for an interview.
I am sorry you didn't enjoy it, sir. I will return it to the kitchen and bring you one that is well cooked. How is your steak this time, sir?
Why have you changed your job so frequently?
Do you have the statement for your card?
I don ’ t know. I don ’ t mind coming out here for a while, but that will get old pretty soon.
Go back to sleep then, but only five more minutes.
I'm from Guangzhou.
Well, that was an interesting documentary!
When you use the internet, be careful not to give out your email address very often. If you do, you might get a lot of spam-unwanted email form companies trying to sell you things.
I think that it's going to rain.
How long a wait do you think there ’ ll be?
No problem, sir. We will arrange you a table for 5.
How do you handle your conflict with your colleagues in your work?
I need to open a second account.
Great. Then, after we remove the carpet, we need to redo all the wood floors. Right?
Hi. How can I help you?
Alright. We have a blue Ford Focus for you, Mr. Fox. Would you like insurance?
No.If you can't break it, keep the change.But can you give me a receipt?
Right now, many girls are dyeing there hair blond.
We can try to lower our cost of production then. We need a price that we can compete with, something comparable with the competition.
When is a good time to catch him?
Alright. I have you down for ten AM this Friday.
I see. Do your parents ever ask you to come home to visit them more often?
People who are honest, dedicate to their work and have integrity.
I was just about to go to bed when the telephone rang last night.
Thank you, sir... Here is your change. Could you check it, please? Thank you for choosing our hotel. I hope you enjoyed your stay.
How many rolls altogether?
On that day, boys are supposed to give roses to their sweethearts.
Let me see. We ’ ll try, but I ’ m not sure that we can remove it.
OK. Hope you feel better soon. You should take it easy. I ’ m sure the doctor will prescribe rest, you know.
Sure. Darn condoms aren ’ t registered in our system.
Goodness me! So many choices! I think I'll have a cappuccino please.
Well, Yuri, tell me about it.
But I may lose my job, doctor! It's hard to get a job like mine.
Oh, sorry! There's a long story even with a mere pair of sticks.
So, it has a history for more than a decade?
I can't believe it. My parents never beat me.
We'd like a half-day package.
Hi, Jone, how are you?
Ah ha! I caught you. Just let me peek. I won't tell anyone.
Excuse me, sir. What would you like to eat, Chinese food or western food?
I see. Wait a minute, please.
Have you obtained any certificate of technical qualifications or license?
No, I didn't. I'm innocent. Those aren't mine. Whatever you found is someone else's stuff. You can't prove anything. I wasn't there when you went in, and you can't prove it's my stuff.
Ok. I ’ ll let her know as soon as possible.
No, this is the second time. But I also feel bad because of the lower pressure and the jet lag.
And the doctor told you to start listening to Bach?
Sounds like fun! When we go he always just likes to play in the sandbox.
The lights were out everywhere.
you dance it very well. do you often go dancing?
What ’ s that smell?
Oh, that's interesting!
Room service.What can I do for you?
That ’ s what I want to say.
You really are lucky!
How about summer?
The kitchen stinks.
That ’ s even better than the real thing.
Is it possible for me to buy some RIB at this counter?
No, they just said it too many people were trying to get off at the Capitol exits.
that's thoughtful of you.
I appreciate your kindness.
I should have known it was you. No wonder all the 20 questions were answered correctly. I thought I might have found the one for me.
That ’ s what I am here for. What questions can I answer for you?
We can check it and hand carry small bags. And we have open each for inspection
Yes, here it is. That's received and cleared, so it's available for withdrawal.
A new candy shop just opened around the corner last week. They have a variety of candies and it is always full of people.
I'm not sure if I'm at the right counter, but I need some advice on mortgages, can you help me?
I've been having this problem for the last few days.
I need to get some business cards printed up.
Yes. Something non-alcoholic, please.
Can I have my $ 200 please?
Oh, that's so bad. I know little about that. Is there a remedy for it?
About ten years so far. I started learning when I was in middle school.
If it does, it will only make you more productive, because we can support each other.
I'm glad that you think so. I thought it might be a bit too revealing.
Well, all my friends listen to it, so I became a big fan too.
Where ’ s the wagon?
All right. I'll just have the cut and perm today.
No, it isn't. But sometimes it snows a lot in winter.
I see. Are there any seat available?
I don't think it's at home. I think I had it when I left the house.But what should I do?
I'm from New Orleans. What about you?
Yeah, his attitude is great, but he ’ s really unreliable. Sometimes he ’ s really productive, but then other times... take last Tuesday for instance, he was forty-five minutes late for our morning meeting!
Let's go in.
Sorry, that's too late. I usually go to bed around 10:00 PM.
I cann't wait for buying his CD now.
It seems there are some loose bolts on one of the wings. It happens all the time. No need to worry.
Yes, of course. Come in.
Is she acting up in class?
I don't have time to talk to her now.
Show me your tongue, please. All right, stay in bed and keep yourself warm. I'll prescribe some pills for you to take.
How about taking a cantaloupe? It is light and sweet. Children love it.
Didn't you mind doing it?
I can fix those for you. Is there anything else wrong with it?
No. But they play techno all the time. It drives me crazy after forty minutes.And anyhow, if we go to the Latin Club you could actually learn some Latin dance steps.At the New Bar you'll just shake yourself around for an hour.And then you'll get sick of stand you'll want to go get drunk somewhere where the drinks are cheaper. I know you.
I've gotten chow mein from there before.
I guess the fax machine is out of paper, too. Don't worry, I'll have someone look at it this afternoon, and in the meantime, I'll have your documents re-faxed to our other fax machine.
I think he will be back around 2:00. If you like, please leave your name and phone number, I'll have him call you as soon as he comes back.
That's great. When are you starting?
No, but that was a random change of subject.
Excuse me, could you please turn on the air-conditioner, it's so hot here.
Possibly, subject to quality and delivery guarantees.
I know she is quite an article, but I was not sure of her ability to cope with a boss.
At the airport. OK, Miss. Wang, your Flight 8 on July 19 from Taipei to Minneapolis is canceled. Your new reservation is Trans Pacific Flight 8 from Taipei to Minneapolis at 9 thirty a. m. on August 2.
That's great. We'll also need details of your occupation.
Could you tell me if there are any entrees that are vegetarian?
On the meter?
I firmly believe that if we invested in funds we could earn a lot of money.
have you ever experiences a flood?
Is her fiance Taiwanese?
Yes, please. Christin.
That ’ s a pretty name. Give your wife my best!
Well, perhaps that's the reason why you are so fluent in it.
Oh, so it was my fault, was it? If I hadn't warned you in time it would have been much worse.
The kids said that they wanted to go to a party at the hotel. There ’ s a special one just for kids.
How about this one? It's our biggest — 16 ' in diameter.
It's pretty nice, but I'm going to start looking for an apartment soon. Hotel living is not for me.
It's for myself.
Okay. What about this one?
How did the business trip go?
I'd better see you there.
Have you seen this?
We need a lot of things this week. I must go to the grocer's. We haven't got much tea or coffee, and we haven't got any sugar or jam.
That's no problem. Do you offer any other consulting services?
Throughout the interview you should maintain patience.
Yes, one box.
His sister had a car accident last week.
Where did you See then last?
not too well! I ’ m just to the doctor. I haven ’ t been feeling too well.. over the last few days.
No problem. How would like your money?
Well, are you invested in some language-exchange program?
You can see the stars so much more clearly after it rains.
that ’ s easy. Express possibilities. People will think that you are pretty smart to be able to look at the topic from more than one angle.
I wasn't feeling too well, so I stayed at home.
Come with me.
I'll be right back. I just need to mail this package.
Was he upset when you told him you had to leave this weekend?
At the gym?
What kind of solution can I have now? I nearly go crazy now.
Did you get a job right after graduation?
Take your used textbooks with you and give them to the representative near the entrance. He will pay you for them. Are you going today?
Excuse me, I'd like to try some Chinese food.
That was heaven!
That the meal was lit!
OK, I won't.
Yes, it did. The names of those village survive as the names of parts of the city.
No, I don't think it could be. I checked the battery two days ago.It must be other problems.
do you have any plans for Friday night?
Is everything OK, Madam?
Did you go to see Michael last night?
That dress is very pretty. Why don ’ t you like it?
Good morning, Mr. Chu. Would you like me to brief your schedule for today?
We can go to that new Chinese restaurant.
May I have your resume, please?
Are you going somewhere?
yes. Isn't the director of that movie the same guy who directed Shaun of the Dead?
I am so happy that she's doing okay.
The picture in the listing shows a lovely master suite. I think that we should go look at it since we are here.
Not at all, but you get what you pay for.
Wednesday? Let me see. Hmm. Somehow I think I've already got something scheduled for Wednesday. Oh, yes! I've got an appointment with my dentist to have my teeth cleaned, and it's essential that I keep it.
To get around your difficulty, Mr Smith. I'd suggest that you reduce your order by half. You can send in an additional order later.
But you can see the key in his hand through the window!
I forgot what I put up with. In that case, I do deserve these flowers.
I see. But could you give me another piece of paper?
Joanna, give me a break.
The documentary also pointed out that they are used by shepherds to round up sheep and by rescue workers to find people trapped under rubble or snow.
Yes, and what would you like to drink?
ABC Company, my name is Lucy. How can I help you?
You are right. Do you have a pen?
Thank you very much. I ’ Ve tried to keep it short and clear.If there ’ s any questions please feel free to ask me.
Yes, it was. I managed to sort out the problem, but I was tied up with the matter for over an hour.
What came up?
Yes, It’s L8V 4B7.
no, I didn ’ t. I gave them a really good clean, so they just look new. The worktop was in poor condition, so I had a new one added.
Oh, fine. Let's take a look.
What kind of price did you want?
I ’ m sure you ’ ll find our price most favorable. Elsewhere prices for hardware have gone up tremendously in recent years. Our prices haven ’ t changed much.
You'll have to attend a three-week course. If you do well, the job is yours.
That ’ s an excellent idea. Hopefully, we would be able to make a profit! A few professors and students are writing a book on the history of the university.
Well, step two is grinding the coffee beans. I've roasted three different types of beans.
I ’ m happy to hear you say that.
Yes. I ’ Ve won the first prize in the math contest.
After all, I'm somewhat conservative.
Yes, I wrote a thesis entitled English Education in High School and it was published in the Education Magazine.
How many carats would you like it to be?
Please fill out the form for the money order.You also need to pay a one dollar fee.
I ’ m so excited, mother. Oh, a new baby!
They are supposed to say trick or treat? Then the neighbors are supposed to hand up the candy.
No. It's only a ten-minute walk.
If you don't mind, may we put it off to the next day?
Please? I haven't eaten anything all day.
Ok, Nathaniel. I'll have Ms. Collins call you back sometime tonight before 6 pm.
Are you excited about your trip next month?
All my children are agile.
It's $ 25.
A lot of younger people like to buy large packets of mixed frozen vegetables. Peas and sweet corn have been sold frozen in my country for many years. I prefer to buy fresh vegetables.
Do you have an appointment with Mr. Smith?
I don ’ t slurp my coffee. And plus, how can you hear it when you ’ re shouting into your phone all the time?
That's too bad. What problems are you having.
I thought you were supposed to put them in some kind of burner with a candle...
I've actually been busy lately.
I always meet people like him.
Please sit down and make yourself at home. Please don ’ t stand on ceremony.
Well, nobody's perfect!
not really. I wasn thinking of maybe going to a movie. Do you want to go with me?
Sure. Let me get it out for you. What is your size?
Did someone meet you at the airport here?
Those guys work at the same company and go to the same bars. They do everything together.
Is this your best score?
I got it, but nevertheless. what I was saying just now was that how to terminate the contract before its term's up?
How'd you like to go on a bungee jump this weekend?
Right, to be famous to be respectable in some way.
I don't think so. I've been following her around campus and I haven't seen another guy.
Nothing of the sort. I can't hold a candle to her.
Good afternoon. “ ginger ’ s restaurant ”. May I help you?
It's often cold in December, January and February. It snows sometimes.
What's the tallest building?
Follow me to the back-yard.
She does, doesn ’ t she! I read she ’ s twenty-nine, but she must be at least forty.
Next question, Is a queen-size bed okay?
I'm afraid he's away from his desk at the moment.
what do you think about her as a boss?
I hope it will last fine Sorrow. I'm going to have a picnic with my family.
No, I have never been told that I have high blood pressure.
I'm dead serious. Yesterday, before class starts, she walks up to Mr - Edward's desk and goes, ‘ Good morning, Jim. ’
Sure. I suggest you take a bus there. It's a bit too long for you to walk there.
The nation is switching to digital TV.
I ’ m surprised to hear you say so. You know that the cost of pro - duction has been skyrocketing in recent years.
well, to be honest, nothing is more stressful than going on a business trip with our boss.
Yeah, he did. But he only won it by a hair's breadth.
Oh! I feel really under the weather. I ’ Ve got a sore throat and a bad cough.
I thought this was the right stop.
May I ask who's calling, please?
When we say your prices are much too high, we don't mean the are higher only by 2 or 3 percent. If we are to place an order with you. I think a discount of about 15 % would be sufficient.
Oh, I understand. She cooks, cleans and takes care of children. Is that right?
Of course I'm OK! I just bought a bunch of classic Elvis records!
You have good taste. It is very much in style this year.
I'm very sorry to have caused you this trouble.
Okay. Sounds good. See you then.
Sometimes they do, sometimes they don't. It's best to find someone who is selling by themselves.
You forgot? You...
I can schedule you with him with no problem. We look forward to seeing you.
I think just 3,000 RIB will be enough.
Thanks. How much would that come to?
Good afternoon, sir. May I help you?
A man is pursuing me. He was my schoolmate in college, and he has been carrying a torch for me for three years.
Good morning sir, I come to fetch me suit.
And I was glad to receive your letter.
You are fine the way you are. Besides, plastic surgery hurts.
Yes, I need to check-in for the eleven 20 flight to New York, please.
Would you like to copy the EX files and pass me the copy. There are some figures I want to check.
Phrases and sentence patterns are also very important. You should know how to use them.
Well, I think you'll like the mangoes.
does your family have a record of your ancestors?
You owe me $ 55.
so... what kind of things do you do in your free time?
That's a big mistake, you should always have a good breakfast. You will not run your car without fuel, and yet you won't expect your body to work without food.
I'm mad! I said now! Turn off the TV, and do it now.
He is looking to see if you have a bladder or urinary tract infection.
You are welcome. It's our job to keep things running smoothly.
Are you available this Saturday?
Do you have an add sheet for me to sign?
Excuse me, what's the checking time for flight FA1187?
Why don't you find someone who is in the know.
Oh, how adorable! She's got your eyes.
It's for Grandma Wang. She is sick and her only daughter went abroad weeks ago. So she needs our help.
Really, I went to Munich last week.
We've got a problem... it looks like we'll need more spotlights on the exhibition booth. The client thinks it's too dark, and they want to add halogen lighting. We've already got 3 sets of track lighting from you guys, do you think you could help us out and throw in some halogens?
Why? You are so excellent.
I can't agree more. Okay, time is up. Let's do the last thing.
OK. Is there a Chinese restaurant?
I drew a blank on ~ about the test.
Hi, is this Rich?
I don't want you to be late for school today.
They are announcing your flight. You'd better board the plane.
Were you a leader when you were in college?
I still think we should have a realtor. We're new in this country. We don't know all the laws of buying a house. And also, the realtor will inspect the house. He can tell us if the house has any problems.
Really, Mary, you ’ re horrible.
OK. I want it a bit close around the waist.
That's quite reasonable.
Where did you park at?
I can tell form the way he spoke to us.
Well, honestly speaking, I went to watch it out of curiosity. I'd say it's really a special art form.
Thanks for your forgiving.
Yes, I did this in the morning. And my doctor wanted me to have a rest these two days.
Good.Now what kind of job do you want? Mr.Wilson?
Yes, that's the reason why I remain here.
What's your last word as to the delivery date then?
It is on Spring Avenue.
I heard her boyfriend is married.
Well, look at our aluminum pan. It's much lighter.
Really? That ’ s so cool.
Have you met the new manager in customer service?
It's not too bad, but it's pretty cold here too. I heard it's going to be a little warmer tomorrow.
Oh, I see. I also heard today is the last day for the street fair. Can ’ t wait to sample all the snacks.
Yes, I was. You work for 3M, right?
Bye, my boy.
How long have you felt like this?
No, that's about it for now. Thanks.
That's no problem. How long will the whole thing take? A week? 10 days?
Never! He ’ s over 80, isn ’ t he?
So are you.
The price per night is $ 308.
Now what about your experience? How long have you been working with computers?
Yes, we can arrange that.
Check your petrol situation.
Well, sometimes the city auctions offer houses to the community. You ’ d have to make a quick decision about the offer in a day, but you would definitely save money doing it that way.
athletes have never disappointed me.
I guess so. It comes and goes.
Wow, they were good. I guess criminals aren't that dumb after all.
Oh come on, it's not that bad.
What school do you go to?
Not quite, Sir. We will need to also know the account number, the deposited amount and your PIN number. You will also have to come in and fill out some forms.
Yes... thank you for understanding. We have to go now.
is that the girl you spent almost every weekend with?
How would you like your egg?
1808. The toilet doesn ’ t work properly ; the water doesn ’ t run in the shower.
Why don't we go down to the pool? It's not too far from here.
Steven, you are always looking in good shape. How do you keep it?
can I get you something to drink?
Which students go to private schools, then?
Yes, Mr. Ford. The dentist will be ready to see you in a minute. Have a seat.
When is the expected date of your departure?
Bye. Take care.
It sounds like you're from out of town.
That's a deal.
Because in this duty-free shop, your total expenditure cannot be over $ 300 and you also have one more present to buy for your wife.
I ’ Ve brought a tape with lots of children ’ s songs on it.
The TV news is reporting a bank robbery.
I'm sure you'll look grand when it's done.Would you like to have a shampoo after a while?
I agree with you. What do you want to do, except sleeping?
What about a medication to help me with my problem?
I am willing to negotiate, but I expect at least $ 40,000 a year.
I'm afraid we have no more sole.
Here you are, Miao Ping. Don't laugh at the horrible photo today, OK?
I can see you've got some color back in your cheeks.
All right, ma'am.
That's what I plan on doing unless I keep screwing up. How did you do this semester?
Well, hope you will enjoy your first day!
I think there ’ s a very romantic new film starring Hugh Grant. Let ’ s go and see that.
I'm only too happy to help.
It’s badly organized. I can ’ t present this to the board.
If you really want me to, then I'll do it.
Oh, yes, Mr Wang, i look at your resume you emailed, very impressive, are you a P. M. ~ meet someone like you, i was thinking of calling you this afternoon, and having a telephone interview.
But it's true. It's a nasty habit. I can't think why I ever started.Anyway, it's obviously got you in its grip!
I was just there a couple of days ago. You know, you should go down there too. They have a lot of stylish clothes on sale.
Xu spikes it! Wow, what a great hit! The Brazilian blockers anticipated the play and tried to block him but he managed to get the ball in!
May I have some water, please?
Can you tell me the way to library?
Yeah, you're right. We'll never hear the end of it.
got it. Are you still updating your blog?
Mm, yes, but I think I like that one better. It's made of gold, isn't it?
Not bad, thanks for asking.
I'll say, she is really stacked, isn't she?
Certainly, madam. The deepest place is two meters but you can swim in the shallow area, which is only l. 4 meter in depth. We have separate locker rooms over there and they are free of charge.
Yes, by all means. I was just about to leave.
Yes, you may enjoy a seven-day paid holiday in the first year. After that, you can have two more days each year.
I think I ' m qualified for the job if I can be given the chance.While at school, I once worked as part-time translator in a company and salesperson with a textile company for two years.And I don't mind being paid less from the start, I just want to enrich my experience and competence.
Who's your favorite film star?
But look at it this way, every challenge is an opportunity. And anyway, I ’ m not talking about investing in the domestic market. There are emerging markets that promise great returns. Look at China, for example, they have 1.4 billion people, half a billion of whom have recently entered the middle class. Here alone the aggregate demand for consumer goods represents an amazing wealth generating opportunity.
then why didn ’ t you talk to me?
Why don't you sit down and relax, darling?
Ok, we'll be expecting you at 11:30 then. See you then.
We're little further away from the street and traffic noise
Sometimes you might feel dizzy, but that isn ’ t common.
Hi, United Airlines? This is Elizabeth parks calling. I have a reservation on the 2:30 p. m. flight to Shanghai this afternoon.
What would be my daily duties?
Well, there're actually over 200 kinds of folk collections in this city, that's half the collections of antique objects in China. There's one exhibition hall for multiple collection, and several individual display rooms for private collections.
I ’ m happy to meet you. It seems everyone in town is so friendly.
Isn't it a Sunday?
How many tickets do you want?
I think he's going to the mountains with his parents.
Well, there will be charity performance on Saturday night. And also, there will be a solo concert by an opera star on Sunday night.
I can promise you that, if you buy our product, you will be getting quality.
Although you spare no effort to complete the project. I think you have missed the boat.
You are such an expert on it. I don't know that.
no, but I got a pay rise of 5 % and a hours for all the hard work I ’ Ve put in recently. I think it was very nice for my boss to show his appreciation in that way.
I'm not feeling well. I'm very nervous.
I need to come in right away.
That's more like it.
You mean Lily's boyfriend?
I hope you will! Take your time. We have a lot more upstairs.
I'm awfully sorry to have bothered you.
Yes I am. Nice to meet you, Jack.
This is how you turn on the computer.
Yes, of course. We have day tour and night tour. Which one are you more interested in?
One of the most exciting things about Mars is that there could have bean life on it. What are your personal opinions on the life on Mars theory?
Is he? Yes. He looks pale, is there anything I can do for him?
Mr. : He's that guy in the blue shirt.
Can you tell me which floor you are on?
Yeah, this is my first visit here.
I'm looking for books on WTO.Could you show me where they are?
Show me the photos of the latest hair styles, will you?
Hi Pete, how do you know my name?
Box office can't explain everything. I do not think it is cheerful or well-made. The plot is old and the female character is not pretty.
I can look anybody in the face because I ’ Ve done nothing to make me feel guilty or something.
Do you have the same in different sizes? The trousers are too long for me.
You mean you suspect him.
Be my guest.
A very good question. It's very honorable for me to tell you that our business relations cover all over the world and they all have very good business reputation.
That's easy. Everyone knows that there are nice.
Ok, just leave it to me. I ’ ll take care of it.
That's a little bit expensive.
Well, since this is your first time, I will do it for you.But next time, if you want a full-service gas station, you should look at the sign.
But the sales number is close to the predicted amount.
I don't get it. I'll go and have our doorman talk to you then.
cool down, Harry! What are you really mad about? Did you get ripped off?
That's absurd.
Nope. You can use the credit card to withdraw the money in foreign countries.
Mr. : No. You only do that when you write reports.
you really didn't have a very traditional wedding, did you?
I hope before the end of the month.
Yes, I do. If you ask around, other people will tell you the same thing.
The best we can do will be a reduction of another 30 dollars. That'll definitely be rock bottom.
Have you had any experience with computer?
Not bad. There ’ s a new English teacher.
It would be weird if it started raining in ninety degree weather.
Well, along with Jurassic Park! Nice going, you got the right answer.
Is the pipe causing any water damage?
Well, I suppose the ancient inventors made a lot of money out of them.
Oh, no. This is going in the opposite direction.
I am washing clothes. Are you hungry now? Wait for a moment, I'll cook dinner for you. ( Steven bends his brows )
Well, I wish you luck here.
Is there something wrong?
I see. Do you want to work full-time or part-time?
We always contact you by phone to come in if there is a need for follow-up.
Good morning, Japan Airline domestic reservations. Can I help you?
Well, I'm afraid a little bit difficult for us to advanced the time of shipment. Our manufacturers are fully committed at the moment.
We can live well, I think.
I have a suggestion. Why don't we go to a ETV and sing?
when I was little, we had a few domestic dogs at home.
Well, then the cafeteria suits you best. But anyway, if you like to have a lunch outside the company, feel free to join me anytime.
Sure! Please just fill in your I. D. number and ways to contact you here.
Here you are, sir. Bourbon with iced water.
Well, good-bye and have a good trip!
You're welcome. Bye.
Yes, I have read. In the contract, I am expected to be available up to two hours past normal working hours. Is that right?
thank you. goodbye.
If so, we may live there someday.
Okay, okay, what do you want?
Do you want to settle the bill now?
Peter is a bag lady now.
Well, I worked at a supermarket during last summer holidays.
Have you heard about the robbery?
Don ’ t worry about it. I have his pager number right here.
English, math, commercial and legal studies, and accountancy.
What kind of oil do you want?
What did I do to it?
There are a number of science fiction and fantasy novels I can recommend.
Oh, I ’ m sorry to hear that.
You are welcome, Please call me if you change your mind.
Wow! A third more? Very good.
Could I have some fruit?
Paul, let's go and see Grandpa this afternoon.
Oh, yes. This is very nice. I'll take this one.
Oh, my god! We get off at the wrong stop. I'm so sorry, honey.
That'll be lovely. Where are you going?
Come on. Don't be so hard on yourself. Enjoy your life.
And what happened?
He performs very well. He is so funny!
What about this?
No, some jobs are exempt from paying into unemployment.
Welcome to our shop. It seems you are interested in this dress.
Yeah, I'm really into video games. In fact, all my friends are on the Internet. I've never met any of them in the real world.
Oh, that's new to me. So what's on everyday?
Just a minute, please. It's in my bag. Here it is.
Yeah, thanks. Could you pick me up a chicken salad sandwich, an order of fries, and a large diet coke?
It’s for a job. It looks perfect for you.
Oh, really? I went to China last winter!
Sure, here they are.
My name is Gao Run.
Well, once you get one off the shelf over there, you first put your name on it. OK?
high ceilings, a tile bath and a big drawing room.
I'm in heaven! A Whirlpool dryer!
It's the mailman, Mother. Here's a letter from Uncle George.
I drive a motorcycle.
Unfortunately it's rather a big mistake.
Thank God, we haven't encountered a burglar. I hope that our house is secure against burglary.
yes, that's my only day off until Thursday.
If we are to modernize our information processing, manufacturing system and management code, we need to complete our office automation.
So that's £ 14.15 for me and £ 16.50 for you.
How are you? How nice to see you again. How is everything going?
I've got to get dad a Father's Day gift.
Yes. I think I won't come here again next time.
I ’ Ve been busy with a first aid course that I started about a week ago at the Red Cross.
Well, but I need it tomorrow morning.
Just plain water with plenty of ice rock.
I want one that is easy to handle.
Certainly, sir. For how many people, please?
I'll definitely try to make it the next time.
I was doing quite well at college. I completed my MBA degree in international trade with first-class honors.
We accept Master Card, American Express and Visa.
2,500 yuan a month.
I know that you like this house, but let ’ s take a look at the others before you make up your mind.
Jingdezhen? Oh, I know it. Isn't it called the capital of porcelain?
Here you are — she's called Digital Barbie.
Yes, you will see on your monthly bill and statement the amount in full but also the minimum payment.
What would you like to know?
Yes, you should pay half of the cost in advance.
Do you know what class you want to take?
There ’ s an interesting feature article in the chronicle about doing business in china and the daily news has printed a report about the special economic zone near pairs. We have a subsidiary company located there.
Many banks in Europe now carry accounts in yen. They are in a position to open letters of credit and effect payment in yen. Consult your banks and you'll see that they are ready to offer you this service.
That was a nice funeral.
I have one daughter and one son. Then there ’ s my husband and I. What about your parents? Do they live with your family?
OK. Thank you very much for your trouble.
I need to speak with you about your daughter.
I am really proud of you.
Actually, the language itself is not so funny, but you can imagine the scene, that's funny.
Yes. There are about fifty names on our approved supplier list, but for raw materials we tend to deal with three local companies.
I do believe this industry will be developed rapidly in 5 years time.
OK! We will. Bye!
Yeah, I make certain. A half-price ticket cuts us one point five Yuan.
You don ’ t have plans to end up back here, do you?
It's fish steamed and served with our special sauce.
How many cases are accessible?
How upsetting! He has been away for a week!
I can check for you, if you'd like.
All right, then let's begin.
That's my wife!
You ’ re kidding. It can ’ t be true.
Mr. Smith is really a thorough drag.
Well, alright, I agree with you about that, but I still prefer a big town.
What do you think of being a secretary?
Yes, madam. Fill 3 or 5 pieces of Cordyceps into a cleaned and chopped open duck's head and cook with the whole duck. Or stew Cordyceps with chicken.
What happened to you yesterday?
Do you like the weather in Seattle?
Can you give an example?
So quick and easy! Thanks very much.
All right, could I leave a message?
I think it's important that all people have the ability to read.
True, I hardly ever see you without your hair done and your makeup on, even when you show up to class in sweatpants. Tell me, how long does it take you to choose that outfit in the morning?
I like these shoes.
The machines take change?
This is bigger than the Super Bowl, man! Teams from 32 countries compete against each other every four years and fight to win that trophy. They first start in a group stage with bigger groups, each g
Actually, my mother made it from scratch.
I'm looking for someone who works here, but I lost his business card. His name's Long or Sang or something like that.
I bought an exercise dress yesterday and I found it was hard to dress it up.
Why don't we go to the Epcot Center instead? They have displays from many cultures around the world.
Okay then. And I also want to have my hair colored.
Sure. It’s on basement level one. Turn right when you get off the elevator.
sounds good. What are you going to have for your main course?
it'll be sad to see you go, but it sounds like you're found yourself a great opportunity.
Yes, it's really wonderful!
Do I have to come back here after getting registered?
Well, I hate the noise in the city, but I love being around lost of people. The problem is that you can ’ t have lots of people and have peace and quiet. The two just don ’ t go together.
Oh, no. It looks like my computer really has caught a virus.
No. Have you?
There are such shops living on selling parts. I don ’ t like their service either. All they want is your money. But in the long run, they will be losing costumers. Anyway, car service business is new in China. We all have to control what they are doing. Otherwise, they will not improve.
Ok, I will remember.
Thank you. Your order will be ready seven days from now.
How can we protect our patents and trade market abroad?
I'll just have this all wrapped up for you.
Thank you.That ' s the result of exercise.By the way, do you work out?
Good morning, my name is Martin. You've applied for the Laboratory Assistant's position, right?
Sure.Come on in.
Are you watching another news report about the war?
Dance? You only go dancing? That ’ s not hard. I can do that.
Well, we could eat in more often. That $ 400 for entertainment is mostly going to restaurants.
What color do you like?
Are you looking for somewhere for two people?
I called HP about my computer.
I don't think we are boring. It's just that we don't have any hobbies.
They may have some difficulty in doing it.
Where do you wish me to take you, sir?
Is there any ticket left for tonight's concert?
It only takes a few minutes. Some people like their meat well done. Others like it rare. The great thing about a barbecue is that everyone can choose how they want their meat cooked.
Four. They are Loco invoice, FOB invoice, CIF invoice and Franco invoice.
I disagree. All you have to do is respect the staff and their opinions.
And you should read as much as possible to enrich the knowledge.
May I ask you a few questions about insurance?
Is your country ’ s environment being damaged by the oil industry?
I did but now I ’ m for Microsoft. How are things with you?
Well, he's become friends with a couple of older boys who are in a band. And one night last weekend, he came home really late, way past his curfew.
OK. Let's pay the entrance fee and change our clothes in the dressing room.
He has a bad cold.
And the cover is great! The colors are brilliant!
Is your father in the habit of having naps?
I fed them earlier today.
Are you positive that you didn't buy the purse?
If that ’ s the case, then I will fix the faucet.
yes, you can find almost all new releases there.
I expected too high from that movie, but I was a bit disappointed about it.
Checking out time is twelve. Guests will avoid an additional days room charge by checking out on time.
I joined Samsung Health Club a couple of months ago.
Is there something go with the filet steak?
You take the D train on the downtown platform, and go three stops.
Good morning, sir. Can I help you?
Where's the peeler?
Perhaps she makes about 25 knots an hour.
I enjoy listening to all kinds of music.
Oh, my god. How can you stand living in such a messy dorm?
Yes, I have already booked a room.
How has May been?
Could I take a look at it, please? Let me just check these details... right.
What kind of food do you usually eat?
It's too late to say sorry now.Oh, what am I going to do?
Thanks for the carrot juice, Mrs. Schmidt. I've got to run to class!
Where on Grant Street?
Why did you call me?
Yes, of course. When you hear the fire alarm, which is a very loud, continuous ringing noise, you should go to the nearest fire exit or fire escape as quickly as possible.
I stopped you for driving through a red light.
Left for the fork and right for the knife. Just remember that the stronger one is for knife.
I can't believe my eyes, Bill. Are you having a salad for lunch? No hamburger?
Didn ’ t he sell worthless stocks to people or something? He got arrested for that, didn ’ t he?
That depends on the day. We sell from here and on the Internet. I would say about twenty to thirty per week.
I'm getting so paunchy that I'm afraid I have to buy a new belt to-morrow, and I think I must go on a diet.
You said you never went to hospital.
They're three hundred dollars.
We guarantee the quality of the product for 12 months. We also provide a worldwide warranty.
Bill. Bill! You gotta help me!
Do you need anything from me?
They pay just enough.
Yeah, I will.
Excellent! I like it! When can I move in?
Sure. Have you checked the weather report?
No, this is my first. Last week I went to a cookout 5 for new professors at Dean Barksdale's home. I took a taxi because I didn't want to be late. But I was the first one there.
Please sit down. Help yourself just like you are at home.
Economy fare for one way trip is 2,300 yuan.
No, I don ’ t like regular work. I am interested in different projects with new opportunities and new challenges, but I can do regular work if the company needs me to do so.
I guess you are right.
Be brave, sir. It won't be long. I will fill out the form for you. What is your name?
Do you think we should try some deep fried oysters?
I'm sorry, sir. Let me transfer you to my supervisor.
It’s John Anderson. I ’ m afraid I ’ m going to be out sick today. I ’ Ve got a nasty cold. I hope you don ’ t mind, ma ’ am.
I ’ Ve worked in the field for more than 4 years. Depend on my work qualifications and experience, I would like to have 5000 Yuan to start.
All right. I'll take it.
Actually. I prefer we eat at home.We ' ll have more time to catch up that way.
Please wait a minute. I'll make out the duty memo... Here you are. Take this and pay to the woman over there.
I don't think so.
Don't worry, sir. It's just because of the lower pressure.
But I'm afraid it will take too much of my time.
I'm planing to go bowling tonight. Tomorrow I was hoping to see a movie. What about you?
Yes. The price differs depending on how many you want.
Perfect. I also wanted to know if there is any call forwarding service? I am usually out of town and would like my calls to be forwarded to a local number.
I've got the correct change already.
How much do you hope to get a month here?
Hello, the nurse said that you might have my test results in from the other day.
Well, since it's rush hour, I'd say the ride would take about thirty minutes, more or less.Is that okay?
As you know I ’ Ve been thinking about moving my career in a new direction. I am hoping that you will be able to provide me with a reference to help me jump-start my future.
Good morning, sir. Have you reserved?
This is our main service area. We do all the routine services here and have two full-time mechanics.
I bid on a Chanel watch at the last minute, and got it sixty percent off!
Do you have any plans?
What can you do when this happens?
I see. Will it be doubled for the round trip?
I'm going to the store.
Well, I have a lot of work. I'll see how it goes.
Click on whichever option you want, and you ’ re done.
Anyway... That ’ s all for today folks! Join us next time as we talk about & quot, How to lose a guy in 10 days & quot, I ’ m sure you ’ ll love that one Dave!
I want to go back to my college on the Huanghe road. It is very close to your house.
Not at all. A party is a party. I ’ ll be happy to come.
I can ’ t disclose that information.
I told you I ’ m sorry. What can I do to make it up to you?
Your price is reasonable but I wonder if you would give us a discount. You know for the products like yours we usually get 2 % or 3 % discount from European suppliers.
This one right here should be right.
Annie, what is troubling you? You look unhappy.
I'm pretty good, you?
Yeah, you're right. We've got to get the most popular phrases there... How else can we boost site traffic?
How many hours do you work a week?
Fred is really a good guy. And he loves you so much.
Yes, it really is. After having vegetarian diet. I have much more energy, I need less sleep, I feel calmer. I can maintain an ideal body weight without worrying about how much I eat and I can think more clearly.
Thank you. And what amounts do you want the checks in?
I'm checking out tomorrow. What time must I vacate the room?
Then tell me what's good about it.
Yes, I have. I need them to help me with these new dished I ’ m trying to make. I need a little more practice before I invite guests over.
You know, I think you ’ re awesome.
I know what you mean. How much would you like to deposit with us today?
OK, here's to your health.
Yes, it is. It was just painted and it has all the modern conveniences.
And show me your tongue... Thank you. That'll do. You have slight tonsillitis, and your throat is inflamed. How is your appetite?
I'm not at all keen on that sort of job.It makes me crazy.
OK.She ' s near-sighted, with a pair of glasses on her nose.She is the only one wearing glasses in my family.
Here is the thing. I was woke up by strange noises of the telephone several times last night. Even I unplugged it, it wouldn't stop beeping. I am also not satisfied with the housekeeping service in my room. So I want to change to a cleaner and quieter room.
It was fun for me, too. It gave me a chance to get away from my routine.
I'm going to New York for the first time, but I don't have a tour guide. Can you give me any suggestions?
That ’ s true. She said they often argued over nickel-and-dime things.
Hello, is Doris available?
In that case, I'll go after the 15th. How much are the off-season fares?
What do you want to study?
Can I see your passbook and with your draft please?
Well, it was definitely worth all the time.
Great, so we can afford the new apartment after all!
Just for a few weeks. I need this vacation. You ’ ll be all right. You know the project we ’ re working on, and you ’ re a good scientist. Don ’ t worry. I ’ ll be back as soon as I spend or gamble all my money.
Can you please slow down? I am not in a hurry.
I'm going out anyway. Get out of my way.
I thought you'd be a bit more excited about this. Everything will be paid for and I'll send my assistant with you to take care of everything for you. All you have to do is to get on the train tonight at 7 pm.
I actually like having a curfew. I have an excuse to get to bed on time.
Really? I remember she said if she would remain single. Is the man very rich?
Hi, I'm back! Hmm... your hair is pretty damaged, and you've got split ends.
Have any plans for the weekend, Tom?
You're catching on! However, there are elective courses like wood shop, metal shop, home economics...
Yeah, yeah, but today ’ s lesson was all about the creation of the universe.
I am looking for a blouse. Can you show me the way, please?
It’s still a mystery. Because Evelyn is only three-month pregnant. But she begins to take her maternity leave now.
What do you plan on making as a side dish for dinner?
Have you decided what you ’ re going to do during your holiday?
You will visit the Hyde Park, Poet's Corner, Tower of London, Fleet Street and Tower Bridge.
Here is the draft contract, Mr. Brown. Let's discuss the clauses to see if we agree on all of them. Then I will make out an original of the contract. After that, what's left is to fill out the contract and sign our names.
If it's convenient for you, Mr. Wu would like to invite you to the banquet in honor of you in the evening.
I just read this in the whole afternoon. Let me show you.
So you have to open all the envelopes.
Roast beef, of course. That's what I ordered.
OK. There is no subway in my city.
I guess the people wanted him as our new leader.
It’s a beautiful morning isn ’ t it?
I can't find my keys.
Well, except fishing. To be honest, I hate fishing, but I love all the others.
how would you decorate your house?
Could you tell me if you have ever taken a class from Dr. Miller?
Maybe we should send them to the reserved hotel for a short break, meanwhile we can also raise a question on what they want to have and know.
The performance is amazing. I'm curious about how they did it. I mean the way they sing.
We went for a swim in the sea. That was the biggest part of the day. Just look at my nice tan!
Why not? That's a good idea to help them.
So do you! How are you doing?
It’s the police! Pull over!
Do you think you can make yourself easily understood in English?
She said that she ’ s from a small town in the middle of America.
Wow! You look just as dorky as Dilbert!
Yeah, but personally I hate bargaining. If I bargain, I might come to a lower price. But I will never know the true price of what I am buying, and I'll always have the feeling that I am over charged at those places.
your office? Aren't you a freelancer?
Two months? How did you find out?
Well, we have chocolate mousse cake, homemade fresh strawberry shortcake, and a spicy rum apple crisp for our specials.
So, what's in the box? A fridge?
I thought it was better than the others-I really liked it.What did you think of it?
That would be fine. Where are you going?
do you have a big yard?
I have a feeling they're about to go down in a few days.
I think I ’ m gonna need more than just a dozen red roses and a bear. What else do you recommend?
What brings you to Beijing?
I am calling to apply to work in your agency of entry.
Hi, Steven, welcome to join us!
Then maybe you should go to school. If you're feeling so much better, you'll ace that English test, right?
It's quite good. I will take it.
What do you do in summer?
Hi, is this the Bread and Cheese Deli?
What ’ s your name?
Yes, I can adjust to anything.
I'd like it well done, please.
How come you think of him that way?
Yeah. It was so easy and super-fast, once I figured it out.
I just want to show my children how an American policeman looks.
He was very distinguished, maybe a bit over-qualified.
Yes, thank you. I ’ Ve already been helping myself.
Yes. They have a good reputation for their tenacity and discipline, especially in vital, decisive encounters.
Hello. I'm sorry to tell you that I've lost my credit card this morning. I want to report the loss and replace a card.
Maybe. But that's not kept the new boss from breathing down my neck. To be honest, I've got a better offer from another company.
Say I've got two tickets for the concert this evening.Would you like to come with me?
Yes. Then I noticed he was on the sidewalk behind me. He was following me.
He's there.
Yes, sir. Here it is.
My son likes going to the main post office. They have a philately counter where he can buy stamps for his collection.
If I hadn't married an Italian man, I probably wouldn't be pregnant so often. And maybe I could raise pigs instead of bambinos!
Let me see. Look! You confused the video frequency with the audio frequency.
Thank you, Steven. I accept your advice.
Then what? Your plane was three hours late!
You are in the pink recently. How do you make it?
He ’ s a postman.
That apartment never had any problems before. Are you sure the problem isn ’ t you?
I know. I ’ Ve got to get it fixed ASAP.
Sure. Let me see... at 6:15 a. m. local time.
Ever since I was a young girl, I ’ Ve been clever with my hands. I ’ Ve always enjoyed doing detailed work. If I could use that ability to make your products a little better and to benefit the company, I would be happy.
They're glad that I finally got a boyfriend.
Well. I want a note from the doctor this one and to be honest, if it continues, we may not be able to have you here.
May I see your identification, please, sir?
Slide your card into the machine.
you mean if they catch the murderer. I ’ m scared stiff about going into the city center at night.
But it's said that you dance wonderfully well.
Why don ’ t you have a water or juice instead, so you don ’ t get dehydrated?
No, they look like little bells.
Though they were ugly, they had great virtue.
Who is in this movie?
It is cold on the mountain. Have you packed the windshelled clothes and bodywarmers?
I know. And some poor guy that robs a liquor store makes $ 500 at most and ends up in jail for five to ten years.
Hello. Gail Willows speaking.
Hey, Dora! What kind of books do you like to read?
Would you like to stretch your legs?
The cowl-neck pullovers are new in. It sells like hot cakes.
No. But I often send e-mail to them. And make a call to my parents regularly.
You are welcome. I'll be back with the warm water in a minute.
We are going to pack them in boxes with a colored picture of the blouse on it. Inside we ’ ll use a transparent poly bag for the blouse ready for the window show. You'll see that the blouses will appeal to the eye as well as to the purse.
Oh, very close. Maybe 5 minutes walk.
Do you have any experience driving a car?
Thanks, but I don't want to put you into any trouble.
It's my pleasure!
I've come to say goodbye.
$ 50 a day.
A prescription must be valid. It cannot be an expired prescription. I'm sorry, Miss. It's the law.You will have to find another doctor who will prescribe this for you.
No, you can ’ t suddenly make smoking illegal, but government could prohibit smoking in public places like movies and theatres.
Great! I went hiking in the mountains on Saturday.
So kung fu is also a means of self-cultivation, isn't it?
( looking at a newspaper ) Oh, dear me! There's no performance at the National theater this weekend. So we have to go to cinema instead.
But I work hard all the time for long hours. Often I have no time for lunch. Yet, I am still getting fatter.
She's far better than my old boss. He didn't know how to express his opinion without putting at least one other person down.
Bill, do you know if the cafeteria around the corner's open today?
Well, I've just arrived in my room, but there are no instructions in English about the facilities available! Could you help me for a moment?
hey Ayden, I was wondering if you could do me a favor.
what would you do if you were me?
Not really, but you're paying for quality.
According to the records, your reservation is for a single room with shower and air conditioners for two nights. The room rate will be 110 dollars per night, including 10 % tax and 4 % service charge. Is this right?
It's my rock bottom price. Take it or leave it.
A little, but not very well.
Are you upset?
Is this the right bus to Zizhuyuan Park?
Now, you can do it via our Atms. It's convenient and easy to use. And we have 4 machines in this branch, so the queues are not usually very long.
What's your proposal then?
Why not come here and have a look at the guidebook?
Scientists have found a second solar system in the universe.
I don ’ t have one time in particular. I just go to sleep whenever I feel tired.
Yes.Please get this memo typed up and distributed to all employees before 4 pm.
You ’ re doing your part for the environment by using public transportation, too.
Have you been eating properly? Eating the right kind of food is important for your health, you know.
Yes and no. Let me see if I can clarify that. The terms are the same except that the contract for training has a clause that allows for the cancellation after the first six months.
I'm really confused by these annoying abbreviations.
Hey, how could you like to taste my fist?
What kind of sport do you like to participate in?
Thank you very much, David. It's an excellent birthday gift.
What is this for?
it's not that difficult. If you want to watch a game with me, I can explain the rules and the tactics while we're watching.
It's reasonable. Here you are.
I am good at stewing beef with potato, frying chicken, hot and sour soup etc.
But I have been so busy all these days.Well, is there any other ticket available? I want the next one.
I can take a break at lunch time, but it is only 30 minutes.
They only cost me about forty dollars.
Yeah. Other than that, the real feature is the excellent drinks. Can I have your ticket?
Are we going to have gym class tomorrow?
There's some paperwork, but most of the time we put the information into our computers. Then we can send information to each other by email or across the network. Do you work in a cubicle?
Wow, must be interesting to watch dragon boats compete a-gainst one another on the city river.
They're soft.
I can show you how to use it.
In that case you want to work with less weight. You can start off by working ten to fifteen reps in four sets. Five kilo weights should be enough. Now It’s very important that you stretch before pumping iron or you might pull a muscle.
Can you give me a better deal?
Yeah, I ’ ll probably just stay in and relax. Maybe watch a few movies.
No, sir. The plant expansion project has been delayed.There was a snag up in the fling process to get the necessary construction permits.It seems that the property we were slated to build on is also habitat for some endangered indigenous species.
I almost forget it. Thank you!
We have this new ETC smart phone.It comes with the Android OS so you can download applications. It also has a built-in camera, mp3 player and touch screen. It works on the 3G network so you have fast access to the internet wherever you are.
It was a big, green thing that looked like a person. It was in the kitchen, and it slowly moved towards the stairs...
Could you please speak in a louder voice? There may be something wrong with your receiver.
If you have any questions about it, please don't hesitate to tell me. I'll go. Bye.
Which book? Your cookbook?
Professor, can you help me add your class?
That's all right. It's not your fault.
OK, I would like to reserve the superior suite. Is breakfast included?
I am really looking forward to getting away from you. Far away from you!
What are you going to cook?
That is so nice of you. If I like the service and the training equipment, I think I well join the club.
Could I ask you for a favor? My laser printer is out of ink and I need to print out something urgent. If you don ’ t mind, I would like to send you these files. Could you then print these for me?
Well, actually two-thirds of Americans may avoid these places.
Nice to meet you. How can I help you?
Great. What name shall I put the reservation under?
I will try my best.
I also want to know if there's a holiday at your company, for I must visit my parents every year.
Is it official?
Wow! I have been working here for 15 years and you ’ re the first person to accept a lost luggage situation cheerfully.
Can I just call someone myself to fix it?
Hello. Is everything OK, there?
This machine roasts the beans just right. If you roast them too long, or the temperature is too hot...
I was born and raised in Beijing. I attended Peking University and received my bachelor's degree in Economics. I have worked for 2 years as a financial consultant in Beijing for China Pacific Insurance Co. Ltd.
Not at all, Susan. Just tell him to leave it with my secretary when he ’ s finished with it
Perfect. Thanks very much for calling. See you soon, bye!
I'm going on a guided tour in the mountain.
I see. I can tell Mr.Thomas that you phoned.
I am a reporter from Channel 5 News.
Please let me point out the chef's special, which is blackened catfish.
I don't want to argue with you anymore. This is going to be tough, but Let ’ s try and be friends.
This city is far too polluted. We should do something about it.
We've settled price, order, payment, now I am calling to ask about package. How can we pack the goods?
Welcome, Ron, come on in!
But I ordered waffles!
A garage sale... that's where people check out cars, right?
You are scheduled to meet Mr. Thompson of ABC Company at eleven this morning. Then, you have a lunch appointment with Mr. Li. And this afternoon at four you will attend a press conference.
Now that I think about it, it really is sometimes.
That ’ s it. Thank you.
I was responsible for helping patients restore their organic functions, training them in speech and organism, carrying our massage and physiotherapy, taking care of patients ' nutrition and diet.
Ticket, please.Do you have a seat preference?
Okay, sir. Three of each. Would you like anything else?
Okay, I can ’ t decide whether sign or not now. Can you give me some time to think it over?
Thanks, Ann. Talk to you this afternoon.
Generally speaking, Cantonese food is a bit light ; Shanghai food is rather oily ; and Hunan dishes are very spicy, having a strong and hot taste.
We try not to because you might have to pay quite a heavy fine.
If you like, but now we have to think about meals and many other things.
Yes, I will.We are very happy with your performance and want to continue our woodworking relationship.
It looks good. OK. I'll take it.
sure, I ’ ll just go put the kettle on. Why don ’ t you have a seat on the sofa and I ’ ll go take care of things in the kitchen.
Pretty good. What brings you here?
Alright. How many pieces of luggage are you checking in?
Well, we have baby-sitting service. We will take good care of your baby.
Yes, I am. I enjoyed studying it at school, though I had trouble remembering all the dates, so my teacher never gave me good marks.
That's terrible. Unfortunately, we don't have that many branches outside the centre of town. What I'd advise you to do is set up a Direct Debit Service.
I've paid for it. Here's the receipt.
That ’ s true. I ’ m wondering did you learn anything from the job?
Big time! A hacker broke into the company's files and got all her personal information. You really think it's completely safe?
Great, is it a two bedroom house?
Out of sight, out of mind.
Haven't we been these places already?
I am free at 1
Take a No. 2. This is No. 12.
Do people respond well to you?
There is one. 5 blocks away from here?
I can play the piano a bit.
Yes, a little. I know your school is one of the best known in this town. There are about 200 children in the school.
Yes, but you need to slow down. This is jogging, not racing!
What style of swimming do you like best?
Then do I have the chance to get this job?
Let me see. How about the lotus root?
I've got to go.
Actually I feel quite rested. I was able to sleep on the plane.
I would, but I don't have any in my tackle box.
It seems that nobody can always expect things to pan out well each time.
I heard through the grapevine that your getting married.
Peter, how often do you exercise?
I am calling to tell you the items you are supposed to bring for the interview the day after tomorrow.
Good morning! Marquette General Hospital. Tia speaking. May I help you?
I'd like a bottle please.
But you have a Master's degree... hasn't that helped your career?
Yes, it does, sir.
Freshman orientation is the last week of august, but I want to go two weeks before that to get settled in.
ah, I don't know a fit works. Last time, all I saw the gym were bunch of lidos, like me.
I'm a foreigner here. My English isn't perfect. Can you tell me what satin is?
Well, I ’ m hanging in there, but I lost my job and need to find another one quickly.
No. I have nothing.
When are you leaving?
No, it's not. Not at all. I'd probably freeze my lungs.
If I go there, will I be able to collect money right away?
Sure. How about this one?
Don't you think it's a sheer waste of both time and money?
Fixing computer isn ’ t my cup of tea. You can leave this job to Jason.
Oh, really? No, I wasn't aware of that.
I think it's soon, maybe in a few months. It was renewed in Beijing, so the new expiry date is on the last page.
I would, but I'm afraid I would't be able to find another job. I don't have very many job marketable skills, there aren't so many jobs that I'm qualified for.
Not too near but not too far either. A taxi will take you there in 15 minutes, If the traffic is not too bad, I mean.
That's true. You can hear my tummy grumbling. I am really hungry!
I feel a sense of accomplishment when I finish a job and it turned out just as I'd planned.
You have a good point. She hasn't really ever been away from home for longer than a few hours.
I'm totally vibing with this engineers.
You really don ’ t need to.
Catherine, have you ever seen the movie Fast Food Nation?
Did you have to take a medical before you could take out the policy?
Could you move smoothly?
With that understanding, you can figure out what your company is looking for in terms of basic attitude. Right?
you are very lucky to have such a nice family.
Thank you. I'll certainly be there.
It's certainly a big improvement over yesterday.
My wife didn ’ t like it!
It has got this year's Oscar Award.
I thought that all athletes were supposed to be regularly tested for drugs.
I was hoping to talk to you today about your business.
Good idea, let's shop to we drop!
Very good, you can come here to work next month.
That's correct.
I can help you if you can just tell me what evening you like the reservation for.
I was busy doing something. I apologize.
You must be joking. You can't fall in love with someone you've never met!
Let me feel your forehead. I'm so glad it wasn't strep throat.
Oh. You mean Jerry's, over on the east side.That wasn't my idea going there.
Really? Do you mean that you are leaving?
Oh, speaking of the conductor, he is indeed a genius.He did a perfect job.His name is Menuhin, a descendent of Russian American immigrants.
What's wrong with you?
Fine. I ’ ll measure you for the suit... shoulder... waist... inside leg... forearm... upper arm... thank you. I ’ ll prepare the suit for you tomorrow. Could you come again the day after tomorrow just to check that the su
Hello, this is Dr Cook's clinic.May I speak to Mr.Smith?
What kind of sports?
That is a wonderful choice.
Do you think I'll need a cotton coat?
You know, now that I think about it, I really don't have much more to say to you at all!
Excuse me. Could you help me?
Where in China is Guangzhou?
This one from Sony gives a very sharp picture.
John has some trouble in his life.
Then, will you try extension 235?
All you have to do is to ask for help.
What type of position are you looking for?
Yeah, but I don't see any tigers or leopards roaming around our office. My stress is just about silly paperwork!
Please, where do I catch the plane for New York?
Yes, how should I set up my new computer?
My stomach was bothering me.
You ’ ll be covered by our medical plan while on duty. Since you ’ ll be middle-anagement, you, re expected to be available up to one hour past normal working hours. Any approved overtime that will be paid at time, which you can take as salary or time off.
Of course. This balance sheet contains three major sections, that is, assets, liabilities and owner's equity. So, you see, the total current liabilities of your company are $ 3,372, 000, and the owner's equity is $ 5,400, 000. That means that the total assets, which is equal to the sum of the creditor's and the owner's equities, are $ 8,772, 000.
That is our office block. We have all the administrative depart - ments there. Down there is the research and development section.
Yes, we have several rooms available. Would you like two twin beds or one queen size bed?
Don't worry about that. I have already calculated the money about things you will buy. Remember to give me the receipt when you come back.
Do you have any cars available?
I think they are important too.That ' s why I want people to have a better attitude about them.
I have said that we will try our best. You can trust us. But you know her situation.
Why not? Come on! Just a cute little puppy. or a kitty!
Do they have a swimming pool?
If there's anything that I can help you in the future, please let me know.
I like landscapes and still life. You prefer abstract paintings, don ’ t you?
It means young girls. That's where you'll find clothes for young girls.
Do you have any homework today?
Firstly, your answer should go straight to the point, and be clear and brief.
you know, foreigners are not expected to use chopsticks proficiently. If you do, you'll give your Chinese friends quite an impression.
What ’ s the matter? What annoy you?
But you can't use so much.The machine won't be able to rinse the soap out.
Yeah. There's an express that leaves in twenty minutes.
What's your nationality?
Sure, madam. Only one dollar.
Well Allen is a great student. He is a hard worker and very well behaved, however he does struggle a bit with math.
It’s going pretty well, but I ’ m really tired!
What a beautiful day!
What's Tiananmen famous for?
I think I prefer face-to-face instruction better.
yes, it's one of my hobbies.
Sure, Liv, what can I do for you?
Anything but a center seat is fine with me. The middle seat drives me crazy!
Very well, thank you. I ’ m meeting my wife and daughter for lunch at 12, would you care to join us?
Yes, of course. There are many tea houses and bars in China, too. People can drink, eat and relax at these places.
I'm here on holiday and I don't have a local debit card. Is it possible to withdraw money on my Visa credit card here?
So you're a headhunter.
What is the make and model of your car?
Please hop in.
oh, I see. If I buy more than a set, can I get any discount?
First you should have a salutation, which can be the company's or a person's name.
As long as it doesn't snow!
What about your company's QC management?
Now I come back to the hotel and try to show it to my friend, the pendant is broken, I'm afraid.
Sure. What time do you want to go?
Yes, sir! What can I do for you?
( 5 minutes later ) What sort of hairstyles do you like?
What is your corporation website address?
What do you say to $ 850 a month?
Yes. Is the position available now?
Ok. I'll give it a try.
Mr. Smith just called me back.
No. Later we decided to opt for the prior outline, version 7.
What's the cashing rate?
Hello, I scheduled an appointment with Dr. Smith, and I can ’ t make it on that day.
Your balance today is 120,376 RIB.
Which model is the best-seller?
And what about dinner?
Okay, then you need a deck with a guardrail.
Will my paycheck come right away now?
Morning, Tom! What are you doing over there? Learning to dance?
Yes, ma ’ am. I could come in any day next week, except for Friday morning.
Yeah, I think I can understand your wife's position. Asking her to ride on a motorcycle when she's pregnant is a tall order.
I didn't minor in any subject when I was in university, but I attended English and computer courses. And I am currently studying finance in a training school.
No, I'd rather have a glass of juice, please. What kinds do you have?
Good morning, Mr. Green. Please have a seat. I received your resume last Monday and I would like to say I ’ m very impressed.
What do these other letters mean?
I didn't hear anything about a delay. I thought everything was running on time. What happened?
Hi, Jenny. Are still working?
Why not! It’s a classic. In fact, It’s one of my favorite novels.
This way you'll probably put on more weight. Will you give up?
No, there's no parking sign.
I think if you follow your trainer's advice, you'll be on the right track.
He must have just got online for the first time last week. He still thinks it's some kind of new toy.
Why don't you talk to your boss about it? If you talk to him, he will surely understand.
It's a good idea. But where can we donate money?
I ’ m sorry, Ms. Gray. I must have lost track of the time. I ’ ll get back to work, now.
I was partying hard over the weekend, fell down the stairs, and need time to recuperate.
Of course! Let ’ s have a look. Great! In my frame of mind, I ’ d like to buy one today.
Thank you. Yes, I am Dunlin.
I'm telling you the truth.
But you still look a little bit tired. What time did you leave?
My paycheck that just arrived is less than last week ’ s check.
Absolutely not! You are highly contagious! You don ’ t want to infect the rest of your co-workers do you? I recommend staying in bed for at least three days and drinking plenty of fluids so yo
How much do you mean then? Can you give me a rough idea?
What speed were you going?
I'm not comfortable about this, Sandy. I don't understand most of these games.
I received a lot of emails from potential clients that I had to answer. Each time, I had to check files to see what we had agreed at earlier meetings. Each client has different conditions and required
Yes, very good.
Is there any difference?
Let's go now.
Oh, I know. When is it?
Do you know which buses I need to take?
No. But the contract stipulates that I will teach 22 hours a week.Will you have thatmany classes for me right away?
It's selling like hot cakes, and we have lots of regulars now. Would you like to place a trial order?
I'm no better than them. They say it's mindless to sit in front of a machine all the time, but I think it's stimulating.
Ok. Let's compromise. If you agree to only spend 75 on books, I'll agree to only spend 40 for my next shirt.
I've been thinking of taking I've been thinking of taking a Crazy English course.Do you think it's a good idea
The air quality in this city is horrendous. The pollution levels are so high that we are not supposed to go outside with a face mask again!
Can we have a table for three, please?
Helen, why do you keep flushing the toilet? What's wrong?
Would you like to copy the EX files and pass me the copy? There are some figures I want to check.
The monthly sticker costs you.
There will be a parade to celebrate National Day this weekend.
Well, Superbad is super funny.
Bob, would you come and help me?
In a fast-food restaurant.
Many exporters speak French and German as well.
About 2 weeks.
Good thinking! We should also print some leaflets for students to distribute.
Excuse me, How do I get to the Grand hotel?
Yes, I'd like to make reservation for tonight, a table for five, please.
I will take ten.
I was very sad when I was laid off last year.
Everything worked beautifully until a few hours ago.
Oh, I see. I'd like to have hot food.
Are you engaged?
What's your plan now?
Well, I thought I'd come to see you, so here I am.
If you succeed in doing that, you must attend the interview on time.
On the fourth Thursday of November.
Tomorrow I will be the new owner of all dad's assets.
I really can't say. Both teams this year seem really good.
It's on 7th Street.
This cake is excellent. Where did you buy it?
What does that sign say?
Here you are. I have just come from downtown.
Don't ask such a question. You know it has no certain answer. Everyone knows it is in his heart.
Don ’ t worry. I will arrange everything.
Look who you get to sit next to--Tim from purchasing!
Yeah, and though the king in chess doesn't have bodyguards, he has a queen who is the most powerful piece. I think this demonstrates the relatively higher social status of aristocratic women in medieval Europe than in China.
Well. That depends on traffic, you know. It's pretty heavy this afternoon.
I am sorry, sir.All the tickets have been sold out.
The southbound A trains say Brooklyn.
Are you angry, Lisa?
Are you planning a trip to the Outback?
I would like to have that new style Gl Joe.
Oh, it's so. She looks very lovely. Could you give me some else information on her?
No problem, that'll be $ 5.48.
Oh, dear. It won't get there for New Year's Day if I send it by surface mail. How much will it cost if I send it by air?
Really? That's fantastic! Will you get a chance to do any writing?
I want to have a picnic with my friends, Mum.
I ’ ll be glad to. But my schedule is super tight this week. I think the only time I have free is at lunch on Wednesday.
No, thanks. Coffee makes me wired and I will be nervous enough carrying all that cash.
Yes, I saw one. Believe me.
I had a good time. You seem to be in a hurry. Don't let me hold you up.
It's very nice.
Well, they spend it pretty quick. New clothes, new computers and new cars every year. And they ’ Ve got a cook and housekeeper.Mona used to be an actress, she likes to spend a lot of money.
How about having a beer on the weekend?
It won't work. I'm nowhere close to being tired.
Of course not, sir.
But I don't know where the registration office is.
Just present your VISA card, and there won't be any problems.
Please tell your name, company and the nature of your business.
This position demands a higher writing ability, so please say something about your writing ability.
Very good. But you should talk about your family, too.
And not expensive either.
Well, in the fifties, that clock used to be inside a drive-in burger joint.
Oh. I wonder if she'll go for that.
Maybe he is busy with his work. Just wait and try not to think about it too much!
I am better. I will go out to have a visit to my aunt. Why don't we have fun on weekend?
What's up? You look unhappy.
We're glad to be able to offer our services to your business, Mrs. Wayne.
I ’ m sure you ’ ll have fun no matter where you go. Remember to take your bag.
Right now, I ’ ll take about anything that will pay the mortgage.
Yes. Please fill in a new deposit slip and we can continue.
Office address, please. He might be at work when they arrive.
What will the girls do?
Do you need anything else?
Okay. First, go to the next corner and turn left onto Center Street.
oh really, Frank? What kind of movies do you like?
I can tell you where I got mine, if you'd like.
Bingo! It's dark outside, Let's hurry up.
What would you like to eat, sir?
Huh? Didn ’ t you know? Aren ’ t you excited?
What account would you like to deposit that into?
It’s the same in my city. We also have a lot of drug addicts. A lot of the crime is committed by drug addicts who need money for drugs.
Hey man! Everything is just groovy baby!
Yes, please. I'm looking for a cotton polo shirt.
OK sir. At what time?
You could have called.
I really need to start eating healthier.
it's Martin Scorsese. You liked his film, The Departed, didn't you?
Yes. Do you have any flight to Paris on 15th? I want one leaving in the afternoon.
Yes, right, certainly. Here you go.
Here it is. 350 Yuan all together.
It is quite urgent for us to fill this position now and I would like to stress that English is a must because of the international contacts and most likely traveling abroad very soon. If all these is not problem for you, I recommend you to mention these in your cover letter and send it to me directly.
I am ready I am going to get, let's start!
Yes, the recent agreements between the two governments have changed everything.Now we have the right to sell in America at a much lower tariff.It ' s going to be good. We can compete more directly with them.
OK.Why don't you just hold the ladder, and I'll put it up.
Cool. What will they think of next? How much are they?
You are really a man who knows how to enjoy being alone.
I believe that she will give me the invitation today.
Hello, may I speak with the property manager, please?
I think you're right, but it does seem that there are always a few co — workers that are harder to work with than others.
Guess what came in the mail today?
Everything is Okay. And as soon as I see my son at home, all my worries vanish into the blue.
Oh, I'm sorry, 447-9626.
Thank you.It ' s very nice of you to say so.
Hi Steve. This is Mike. What are you doing?
There are cords that connect your computer to a power outlet.
And what's the number you are calling?
Just one second, and I'll check.
Sorry sir, it is the only flight wa have right now.
What if we can't get to school?
yeah, It’s fair to say so.
Sounds great to me! If they are willing, we could ask them to go dancing with us. That is excellent exercise and fun, too.
Okay. Come with me.
Anyway, do you have any change I can use for the bus?
They are too bright.
Okay, I ’ ll take this one.Does it come with batteries and a case?
I see. Where do I have to change them?
Awesome! I'm in heaven. Let me help. They're so easy.
That ’ s one of the conditions of my policy too. It covers you if you die before you retire and when you retire.
What about next Monday?
Julie, what's on the tube?
Sorry, but I ’ m not really that interested in those things.
I'm very glad to hear that.
Your doctor wants to know what your white blood cell count is.
Green, G-R-E-E-N, but just call me Mary.
Yes. you can The fitting room is right over there.
Excuse me, you look familiar. Did you use to live in New York?
When you lent me the bike, it looked brand new, almost anyway.
Do you often go to watch sports games?
Thank you. Here is your tag.
What is that problem, sir?
We are taking IB 385 to London tomorrow at 1 p. m.
I am disappointed with your work lately.
There will be an information session about the Students ' Union this Tuesday. You can apply for it then.
Good. Well, welcome aboard, Ms, Robbins.
I ’ m not joking. I got accepted!
You are kidding. What happened?
I left after the opening dance. I couldn't wait to get out of there.
Now let's have one together.
I think so. Maybe that ’ s why It’s cheap here.
Did you hear the names he was calling me?
Ok them. We ’ ll go by train. I ’ m sure we ’ ll have a good journey. Shall we go to the station and buy the tickets?
Yes. I locked myself out. May I borrow a duplicate key for Room 201?
This model has advanced technoledge, superior components, it is compact, and it's a top-quality product.
I call this meeting to order. Thank you all in attendance today, I know it's a busy day for you all. We have a lot of material to cover today. Did everyone get an agenda?
you should consider eating healthier food and getting some more exercise.
Hi, I would like to purchase a one way ticket to Brussels, please.
Sure thing. So, where are you flying in from?
Once a month.
I can give you a reservation on flight No CZ 387 on July 22nd.
then what? Your plane was three hours late!
That's great. Let's go skating together tomorrow.
Go ahead. Waste your money.
Oh, there is something wrong with my car.
How long will it take to get to Shanghai.
It feels all right. But if it were a darker color, I will like it better.
Yes, it is.One way to stop countries fighting is to cut off their financial support. Wars are very expensive.
Definitely. It not only keeps me fit but also helps me concentrate on my soul.
Some relative documents will be needed and the fee may be quite dear. So you need to learn more about the process and regulations about this issue.
Yes, it's so cold.
I can't find my glasses and I can't see anything. Can you help me find a few things?
Oh, I don ’ t think he wants to. He wants to travel to several different countries around the world.
I'm tired of you always wearing my clothing!
No, double B for Bravo
Poor John! He is bothering both sides of this bread.
When is your birthday?
I ’ m finished. Here you go.
7880 Crofton Avenue, Building 40A, Room 304.
9:45, please. We want a table next to the window.
Yes, how long will you intend to stay?
Of course it does. Everybody has his own hobby.
I had it right here a minute ago, Mr. Emory. Umm. Just a minute...
No problem, I'll get on that right away. Thanks, bye.
Please get any outside help that you need in understanding your escrow documents.
Deutsche Bank. It was 25,000 US dollars.
It is in the DX community, Room 306, No. 2 building. It is very easy to find. Just ask the guard at the entrance.
I think I know it. I wonder whether the agreement has the guarantee of law or not.
You're lucky.
You owe some money.
He said there was a traffic jam, but he is coming.
I will see you tomorrow.
You bet, as long as I can collect enough money.
Bob and Mary are back together.
Yeah. I have a fancy for some wine tonight. Can you recommend something for me?
There's a car dealer down the road.How about going there?
Forgive me darling. I'm very tired.
Yes. We set up the new alarm system a few months ago.
Do you think it'll work?
So, where do I go to exercise?
Hi, I made a reservation for a mid-size vehicle. The name is Jimmy Fox.
But we can't accept your damage claim.
Okay. Do you have a trainer to help me work out?
I take it you've done this before?
Alright. But why is downloading music better than buying Cds at the store?
Have you taken any medicine?
How about this one? This is just $ 20. It's worth every penny of it.
Well I had several tests and an oral presentation this week so I didn ’ t get a chance to memorize the second page, but I think I mastered the tricky section.
No, but I have a low fever.
I ’ ll come back for them tomorrow.
And hopefully they are going to confirm the deal on Wednesday, fingers crossed.
I think I might move in with my parents for a couple of months until I can find something. You know how hard it is to find a decent place around here. I ’ m gonna have to put most of my stuff in storage for a while.
Really? What is there to do after we graduate?
What are you up to tonight, Steve?
Surely. You can enjoy the beauty of numerous streams and waterfalls. The sea of clouds has a fairy tale beauty.
Why are you interested in working with this company?
A, do your best, it's very important.
come on, dear! You forgot it, too.
The best we can do is $ 120 per case.
Lodge, You must come around sometime, You have to check out my mew stereo.
I understand, officer. I guess it's just not my day today. I will accept the fine.
What kind of permanent would you like to have?
Where do I get off?
It's Saturday and we are sitting at home doing nothing. What's wrong with us?
That quilt was passed down to me from my ma in Holland.
I am sorry, I have broken my wine glass, and would you please bring me another?
I'll walk over and get the bill, since I don't think the waitress is coming over here any time soon.
hi, Natasha, how's life?
Do you have concert halls in your city?
But we have a date tonight! You can't stay at home because of a stupid horoscope.
I'm sure it will. So, we should be able to start moving the machinery in during week 34. I'll confirm that date with our suppliers.
Maybe we could start with the Design Department. And then we could look at the production line.
I will open the suitcase and you read through the list.
That's my boyfriend Matt. Isn't he cute?
That's amazing!
Do not mention it.
My wife and I want to see the places of interest in Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Zhuhai. Can you arrange a tour for us?
Well, these are for internal use.You take a packet each time.Four times a day.
How do you like Korea?
Fabulous. I will get the contract ready shortly.
Well, there's nothing I can do about my height!
Hey, not everyone is as lucky as you to have a father who is a scientist.
Tim's always bothering me.
For some reason it won't turn on.
Fine, I'll take a taxi.
Thank you so much!
My parents are taking me to dinner tonight.
Thank you, but no. This will do it for now.
your mp3 looks so cool. Where did you get it?
Yes, we'll take our time. And we'll go to Five-lake Strict and the Wall Street.
I'm Kristy. Can I help?
I'll say yes. Wait a minute. I need an IC card.
I was scared stiff of giving my first performance.
We call this a ' parking meter '.
are there any seats available by the emergency exits?
What time do you think that you would like to have dinner?
No, I won't hear of it.
I just want a private conversation with one other person.
Could you just run through the evacuation procedure?
Big talk, I ’ d say. He does not have a girlfriend yet.
How beautiful! I love it at all.
That ’ s good.
That ’ s right, although we do expect you to do a little overtime if there ’ s something important to do. The lunch break is flexible. You can go a little earlier or a little later if you prefer.
Oh I forgot! I'll run home real quickly and bring you the money.
Really? Does Mary know that?
I have done something like that before.
Very funny. Next you should check your side mirrors and your rear view mirror. Can you see out of them?
Very comfortable. I'll take them.
Thank you. I wish I would.
Oh, it is coming to us, come on, Ben, get a banana to it.
Did you go to the roller rink on Saturday? I heard it was far out, man!
Can you take he away from me?
I ’ ll try to make it. I should be able to fit some time in around 3 o ’ clock.
that sounds dreadful!
No.thanks. I'm full.
I want to get a bite to eat.
I haven't seen Bill lately. How is he?
Mom, is there anything in the fridge I can eat before dinner?
What is phone number?
Did you vote for him?
Really? Who did you hear that from?
I'm sorry about that. What ’ s your flight time?
What do you think are the responsibilities of a tourist guide?
Good morning, Pete.
Which account would you like to take the money from?
Yes, that's right. We want as much info as possible before we agree to anything.
That sounds great. More dividends if I want to purchase them!
How do I log on to the computer?
Fine, I'll be up in a few minutes.
Yeah, it's really cute. But why a monkey suit? Is Hello Kitty having an identity complex?
Hi, Jenny! Jason here. It's great to hear your voice again.
Our most popular drinks are our Cuervo Gold margaritas.
Good. Now you can pick classes by yourself.
They got rice, flour and oil as presents, while the leadership got 1000 yuan shopping card.
My appointment was on Wednesday.
Fred, is it a good time to talk with you?
I'll have a hamburger.
It all sounds exquisite! I can ' t wait!
Am I through now?
Exactly! Attitude... how do you rate attitude?
Actually they ’ re expecting the baby to come on my birthday.
Don't pull my leg.
That's possible. At that time, they can choose any activity they like.
He ’ s a year older than Keith, but he looks younger.
Is Alice available?
What did you see?
The marriage only lasted about a year.
Art isn ’ t for everyone. I ’ m going to an exhibition tomorrow at the national gallery. It’s an exhibition of greek and roman sculpture.
What do you think of this dress? Do you think it suits me?
Not at all, sir. I'd just like to delay our meeting to next week, I'll have time at the beginning of next week.
oh, I see. I think the older generation tend to think in a different way.
Michael Jackson's coming to town.
i think i'll be a little afraid.
Yes, I am. You must be Tom. Nice to meet you.
You are not late, Mr. Thomas. There're still 15 minutes to go. Mr. White has just called you.
It's my first visit to Prague, I'll be here for three days for a conference, then I have a day on my own to do some sightseeing before I head back home. What do you suggest I see when I'm here?
Oh, yes. My husband also has some laundry. This is his suit and here is his pajamas.
All right. Carton or no carton, the packaging must be waterproof as well as strong enough to stand shock and rough handling.
"Trust me, it's worth it. With the "" Love, Amy Card "", you'll get a 20 percent discount on everything in the store, every time you shop! "
it will be a rock and roll band probably. He ’ s a very good guitarist.
Could you ask her to call me back when she gets in?
Um, sure. What are we having for dinner? Do I need to put out anything in particular?
That is just a natural, grammatical English expression.It has a direct translation in other languages.
When will you buy it then?
Well, the editor-in-chief heard that I had experience as an editor at another magadize and asked me if I was interested in becoming an assistant editor for him.
What--is tomorrow night something special?
well, my hosue-mates and I are having a house-warming party. Would you like to come?
Maybe you should communicate with him just like a friend and not a boss.
But number 13 buses leave from the center of town.You ' ll have to walk two miles to catch one.
... and taste a few! There will be wines from several countries and an expert to give advice on which wines are good and which ones are not.
I don ’ t know any of the laws they ’ re trying to pass.
Do you have to work late at the computer company again tonight?
Oh, thank you. I am exhausted. Will you bring me a cup of tea?
I see. Here's my Bank Book.
that's good. Have you met Jane yet? She's the intern in the international travel department.
Hey Mike. What are you doing?
What were they doing when you called?
He said, ' 36 years, ' and we both laughed about it. He apologized and now, it's all good.
I have decided to go to Tasha.
You need it to pay your fine.
No problem at all! I am taking a long road trip and I want to make sure my car is in good mechanical condition.
I ride my bike. I don't live too far away, so it's pretty convenient. it's only about a ten minute bike ride from my house to the office.
I transferred here from PCC.
You look pretty in red.
Sure. We have a good after-sale service. Your satisfaction is guaranteed.
Isn ’ t it on the bookshelf?
Did you pack this bag yourself? Has it been out of your possession at any time before checking-in?
did you lend him a lot of money?
Well, no surprise there.
You're so lucky. If he bought you something for no special day, I wonder what he would buy you for your birthday.
I ’ m not so satisfied with it.
Do more exercises after you are healthy.
I ’ ll get started on it now.
Well slowly but surely I proved myself, and the new editor liked me so he promoted me to features writer.
You're late.
No, we don ’ t really care because they are all pretty good around here.
It's eighty four euro per night excluding VAT.
Take care! Don't slip on the ground.
No, thank you. I just had two cups of coffee at my desk.
I'm not sure I can't agree, dan.
Thanks for your belief.
Can't you see the notes there? It says No smoking here.
Oh really? Did you find any bargains?
I really like my debate class.
Yes, madam? Can I help you?
What is your favorite color, miss?
One more thing, have you got all people's phone numbers?
Good-bye. Remember to look me up if you're ever in Washington.
I don't know because I haven't received my test results yet.
I ’ Ve just take out an insurance policy. Are you insured?
Ok, I have the number. Bye!
Well, I talk to myself. That is, I play one role first, then the other.
Yes. Maybe you should do it too. You may not get enough vitamins from your food, you know.
Where did you want to go for lunch?
Well, take it easy. Things will look better tomorrow. Maybe you should try exercising or a hot bath to help you relax.
Well, natural pearls are of higher value, but the cultured pearls have equal lustre and are just as beautiful.
thank you very much!
What have you done?
Is this evening too soon?
You've heard of Bruce Jenner, haven't you?
Which church do you attend?
Of course. The manner of shaking hands can show a man ’ s character. For example, the interviewer who shakes your hand lightly, is a easygoing man although he looks cool.
Where do I get it?
Mr. : And over here is our gymnasium.
Ok. I ’ ll take it.
Where would you like me to pick you up?
You ’ ll notice that the window treatments, carpeting, and drapes are all new.
Oh, sorry, sir.We take no tips here.Thank you all the same.
Sure. I think you can hear the song everywhere you go now.
I'm afraid not, he has gone out of this town on business. May I take a message?
It's Clive of course. Where did you come from? Every girl knows Clive!
All right. Leave these ads with me. I ’ ll speak to him this morning.
let me see... set the timer first and push the button, oh, come here.
Sounds like I'm missing out on a good time.Oh, well, there's always next year.
David, recently I established a travelling forum, and now I want to make a plan to hold the first activity. Where can we go for this time?
Come on. A trip will do you good. Are you doing anything this weekend?
Come on. Fashion is not only for women. Men also share the equal right to chase fashion. It's the new fashion for men to wear perfumes, which is called cologne.
Here you are. What is the rate?
Studying English wouldn't give me any satisfaction. It's hard work.
Thanks. That would be very helpful.
No, not much.
What's the price of the bread?
Hello, this is Miao Eng calling from Lincoln Bank.
How about “ The Secret Life of Bees ”?
Yes, I have seen those signs.
I have to see the dentist. We have an appointment for this morning from 9 to 11 o ’ clock. So if there is any phone call, please pick up for me. If there is something urgent, tell them I will be back in two hours.
Well, yes, there is something wrong actually. Perhaps you can give me some advice.
Of course. You'd better learn something about it.
Sure. What do you need?
Credit Card. The International Credit Card, I can't find it anywhere.
You don't have to go to the mountains! I stand on my head during my yoga routine every morning!
I have no idea what to buy for Mary for her birthday.
It doesn't matter.
You mean visit a factory?
Today's rate is 2.57 Singapore dollars for 1 US dollar, here is your money, sir.Please count it and sign your name here.
Sorry. It is the smallest size we have.
Do you think the trend will continue?
The game starts at seven so we'd better hustle, it's already five.
Which websites are most popular?
How much is it? Is three hundred dollars enough?
I promise I'll wake up, in five minutes.
Who is he?
Well, let ’ s see. I ’ d like to go to see the Summer Palace.
Rockefeller Center. Can you get the taxi here immediately, please?
I hope you haven ’ t invited any vegetarians!
I think I'm quite fit for a driver.
How much does it cost to hire a motorbike?
That would be great! Give me a call!
Yes? Why not?
Hey, Trev! How did the shopping go?
I should keep a better record of my correspondence with the clients so if necessary I can prove it was my effort.
All right, sir.When are we supposed to be there?
Thank you, sir. Sorry to trouble you.
OK, you're the boss. Look, Mom, one guy has just jumped into the swimming pool.
I like peach blossom, because I like spring.
Besides I want two copies of all the photos.
I must weigh it first. Err... It's five grams over weigh, Do you want to send it as an ordinary or registered letter?
Don ’ t be silly, John. I ’ m going with you. It’s necessary for me to have a holiday too.
well, you know I have some students studying for their master's degree. One of them tried to give me a gift that kind made me uneasy.
for me, traffic jams are quite stressful, because I'm pretty impatient. How can I prevent myself from getting stressed if I get stuck in a traffic jam?
Thanks for your help.
Sure, no problem. What are you trying to get?
You must enjoy yourself.
Are your vegetables a little mushy?
Well, I was just wondering... you see, I know I ’ Ve used up all my vacation days this year, but my sister is getting married, and the wedding is overseas, and, well...
That sounds good, but I don ’ t want this house to get away from me.
It's only like that the first couple of times.
But I heard it might rain.
You gotta help me out this time, buddy.
No, but I wouldn't be surprised if it rained tomorrow.
oh, it's really beautiful. but i just can't dance it well.
Yes, I have read about it, but I would like to know more about it.
It's none of your business.
Hello there. I need some advice about personal finance. Could you help me please?
Yes, I did. Can you call after 7 p. m.? I'm usually out in the daytime.
OK. I'll be back soon.
Good morning, welcome aboard.
My boyfriend says I work too much. That I spend more time with you than with him.
True-well, do you have any forwards for me to send him?
I stayed online chatting with friends all night. It was great fun.
I got major FOMO from missing that engineers.
That cake tasted so good! It disappeared within minutes, so I think everyone liked it a lot. How ’ s that stain?
About 300 dozens.
Oh, thank you. So nice you are.
I'm highkey obsessed with this this movie.
She's not bad. She's a bit bossy, but I'm sure I'll get used to her.
I can't accept your excuse. It's five o'clock.
Barbara. But please, just call me Barb.
That's all right. This sort of thing happens all the time to everyone.
Steven, have a rest. Could you have a talk with me?
You are kidding me? It is against the labor law. They should be aware of their rights.
Would you like a dessert?
Pleas turn right at the traffic lights.
Are you telling me that you've seen her before?
I was in my friend's room, talking for an hour or so.
How come I never knew that? Do they have a new baker or something?
I suppose I could.
I'm getting sleepy.
You said it. We ’ er breathing poisonous air every day.
Oh, can't you do it tomorrow? It's already past 10.
That ’ s just it! I don ’ t know what to get her! Last year I got her a ring that was two sizes too big and a pair of shoes five sizes too small! I suck at getting presents for people.
We do always recommend people take Traveller's Cheques when travelling overseas. The world is a dangerous place nowadays, you never know.
Well, last week I invited her over to dinner. My husband and I had no problem with the food, but if you listened to her, then it would seem like I fed her old meat and rotten vegetables. There's just nothing can please her.
OK, to start, the conditions are specified by the buyer and may include Insurance Forms, Way Bills, Bills of Lading, Customs forms, various certificates.
Go to gate number 2, please.
Where will we call at?
Usually Shanghai, Qingdao, Hong Kong and so on.
These look wonderful. Do these come with a guarantee of quality?
There's no point in making a counter offer because the gap is too great.
yes, yes, he's right here by me.
Yes, if the card is well kept and has no dirt and scratches.
I'll be checking out of the hotel in about 30 minutes.
She's the only thing I can think of all day long.
I know. It wouldn't hurt much to say sorry first. And after that, you can casually mention the problem. I am sure he will cooperate.
how did you figure out how to slove the Rubik's cube?
What do I do after I've typed in my password?
I'm highkey obsessed with this engineers.
Harry is so down that he won't talk to anyone.
Yes. I'd like to buy a sweater for my husband. Which style is the latest?
I have your ballot card right here.
Can't you give me another chance and reconsider your decision?
It's not too much trouble to do it this way and remember, your certificate is due in 2 months. If you can hold on to it, it'll be much better for your finances.
Well, honey, wake up, or you'll be late for school.
I'm not surprised. You eat too much.
Yeah, there're so many excellent candidates out there. Who knows which one will make it to the final?
No no, I just changed my eating habits. I eat a balanced meal. and I eat less than before.
Sure. Wait for a moment. Here you are.
... and you looked so adorable with your hair all wet. I had to take a picture of you standing there in that little alley, smiling and laughing in the rain...
That ’ s ok. There wasn ’ t anything important in there anyway. The shaving kit more than makes up for my lost luggage.
Have you visited it before?
why don't you turn off the TV and get outside? You need to get some fresh air.
No, Nothing will be kind.
Next time you come back, bring your ID.
Yes, Miss, what can I do for you?
All right, Madam. It's ok. There is hardly any water in the radiator. It's dangerous, Madam. You could break down, because of the heat you know.
Would you like to try this one on?
Everybody attention. I would like to make sure you all know the process. The interview consists of three parts. One, all of the interviewees will answer the questionnaire and it lasts for maximum one hour. Two, we will take a 30 - minute ’ s break. After the break, we all come back to this office and I will announce the successful candidates for the 2nd round. In which, you have a small interview with your future manager.
The last one is black and white, all the rest should need color.
Thank you for making a reservation with us. We look forward to seeing you in April!
People say grapes from XinJiang are much sweeter than other kinds. Please give me a kilo of that.
Bill, will you be free at noon?
Sounds good to me. You make up the invitations, I ’ Ve got run. I ’ Ve got a meeting in five minutes.
The pipe is behind a wall in my bathroom.
Really? How much is it?
Hello, could I speak to Allison, please?
Thanks a lot. I expect to see your name nominated pretty soon too. You ’ Ve been doing some great work.
I can put you down for ten o'clock. Is that alright?
I don't think we've met.
I don ’ t mind that. But she disagrees with me about everything.
Don't you have the exams coming up soon? I'm sure you could spend more time preparing for those.
I ’ d like to bring to ABC Company not only my technical skills, ambition, enthusiasm, but also my loyalty, a sensor desire to become an administrative assistant. It is the hardest of my career plans.
When you miss a day of school, I'll be happy to give you the English assignments.
You know about the blackout last night, right?
What flight are you taking?
that ’ s a great idea. I ’ ll search for some information on the internet. If It’s possible to do, the internet will have some information about it.
How can I find out if I can collect?
My dad is going to be here in a minute to help me go through this with you.
We have roast chicken, grilled chicken, chicken curry and chicken chops.
Good. I think you'll make a good cashier.
Yes.take the oil industry for instance.you know there are twenty oil resources in China.you can see many chemical products in the exhibition.such as chemical fabrics as I dress.
That's right. The meeting is very important. Where shall the guests be received before the meeting begins?
Uh-oh. We don't have a flashlight.
Hello, this is United Airlines.
You may try to have some alternatives and see how you feel.
I tried. You were preoccupied.
No. She is really a very nice girl...
He must be lonely?
What kind of scholarship is it?
If you are accepted at both places, which company will you choose?
Yes, I have lost quite a few pounds since last month.
Thanks for saying that.
F. Y. I., there is a flea market nearby, but maybe you're done...
Yes, I wanted to look for some information on the company page just now. It took me almost one minute to open it. Then there is no response to any click.
Yes, I have booked a table for four. My name is Liu Fan.
I always make time for family.
Daddy, you always arrange your schedule so tight on weekdays. You should have a rest on weekends.
Not surprising. I bet she's very tall and slim.
Criminals are clever? They're only successful when people are careless.
Hello, what can I do for you?
I ’ d like to set a fixed time for this meeting before we finish today. Can you all take a look at your schedules?
Why? What happened?
Everything is right here. If that's all in order, just let me know where I sign.
How about 60 % for the first load, then 20 % each?
Really? I heard it was supposed to be great.
Yes. I'm looking for a position as a chef.
I wanted to, but the water is too cold, and I just wetted in up to my knees.
Teachers? I didn't think that they would be racist at all.
Before 12 a. m.
And how long does the course last?
I agree that yours are of the top.
A party of three.
Oh. that's very nice of him.
I don't know much about computers.But I know I want a desktop computer with a lot of memory. And I need a printer.
I want to order a large birthday cake, several kinds of cold dishes, pastries and fruits.
No. Come here right now.
Good morning. May I speak to Mr. Black, please?
You have to call the office first.
You mean the boy you met on MSN?
I'll make it up early next week.
We appreciate your efforts in promoting the sale of our clothes in the market of this city. But according to our record, your annual turnover is not too big, so I think it is premature for us to discuss the question of agency.
Thank you for your warning.
Tomorrow is my first day at work, what do you think I should be wearing?
Have you got your e-mail address?
I voted this morning.
OK, OK. Get back to work. There's someone waiting for you in the kitchen...
I agree, a man needs good career.But that doesn't mean he should have a little fun, too.
Mr.black has been getting a little around aside.
Basically, they want to know that you were available for work and not sick.
That ’ s the one. It seems that everyone is anxious to get to New York tonight.
Oh... that's too bad.
With so few windows, how can you even see what the problems are?
Were the injuries minor?
Please enter your PIN number on the keypad.
Sure, I have. Will you join?
So, you're going to have a really nice vacation.
Hi, this is Susan Smith. I ’ m calling about my appointment with Doctor Brown today at 3
What can I do?
Orange juice, scrambled eggs, bacon, toast and coffee.
Ok, you have to fill out the form. And I let me see three identification cards or documents.
It's a quarter past three.
OK! We'll see it.
I ’ d like to, but I can ’ t.
I ’ Ve got her a birthday present and I ’ ll take a bottle fo wine too.
He's handsome.
I've already told my buddy, Mark, that I am going hunting with him in Alaska.
But I... I don't agree with thatbecause computers weaken kids'ability to thinkbecause kids don't learn basic skills.
well, nothing more than a jumble of photographs.
It falls on the fifth day of the fifth lunar month.
Ok I ’ Ve found it. Checking out on the 27th?
Realtors always get a commission. If the realtor helps us find something, we have to pay him.
Wow, so soon! I'm going to miss you.
Another terror film? There is too much terror and violence in the films. Do you like seeing such a picture?
I ’ m sorry I kept you waiting so long. I'm running a little late today.
It’s not that bad, besides it really looks nice in that corner. It gives the room a good atmosphere.
Oh! I just want to drop in on him for a chat.
You may ask if you can take a half-price ticket.
Thank you. Would you sign here, please? Here's your receipt.
Not much, Just a house party with some friends.
Don't you think it might be a good idea to hold the party outside?
Well, what if I told you the seminar is going to be held in Hawaii? Does that perk your interest?
Fine. Let's get on. Oh, no, Judy! Get off the bus quickly!
What ’ s the monthly output?
That's wonderful. I want to get a part-time job too. Tell me what I should do.
What do you teach?
Thanks. Er, mister, if I want to deposit checks next time. what should I do?
I think you made the right decision.
He is in his late thirties.
Did you get the camera?
I am not sure. I don't know that many restaurants around here.
That ’ s without a doubt, the best idea you ’ Ve had! Let ’ s do it!
Just use your computer here in the lobby. It's set up for wireless.
It's random. If there happen to be a lot of things going on, I may add several new entries in a week, and if I've got nothing to share, I may leave my blog untouched for weeks.
Yes, I see. How do you like this one?
From last night! I took the left over turkey, mixed it with some diced peppers and onions, added a little bit of mayonnaise and made some sandwiches!
Our school has a link on its website for apartments.
Mary, could you please come in for a short while?
I've a driver mate in my car!
unfortunately, he wasn't able to evacuate in time. He ended up dying in the tower.
( Benjamin starts to run and then he seems to remember something and returns. ) Ugh, excuse me, where is the Lost and Found?
Thanks. Does the bar have a signature drink?
He stepped out of the office for a little while.
Don't worry. You can't lose all your money.because you won't gamble all your money.
It's ok.
No way. Alisan Darling just got hitched in Vagas.
The radio said it's OK on this road.
May I help you, madam?
When do you want me to come?
I look forward to more of my new phone.
Elvin doesn't want any programming help. He wants all the glory for himself.
Are they coming to Chicago again?
And the second stage is called a tornado warning.
I bought the MP4 in your store a week before, but it doesn't work today.
I said by the middle of Oct. This is the best we can promise.
Home at last. Tonight we have a lot of homework though.
I wouldn't call myself extroverted. Sometimes, I enjoy being by myself very much. But other times, I like sharing activities with others too, especially during these last few years.
Well, to begin with, Gambling is addictive, ruins marriages, destroys families and bankrupts communities. Once you are addicted it is very difficult to stop. People have lost their houses, cars and been left out on the street after becoming addicted. Secondly, it exploits because men become addicted to gambling most often because of the action and risk. Women gamble to escape, and senior citizens will start gambling for the social interaction. Underage gamblers often start gambling on sports with friends and then illegal bookies.
Apple pie, please.
Normally it can be completed in four years.
Where did you empty the basket, Bill?
Yes, I can remember it very well that there used to be all sorts of animals and birds.But nowadays you just don't see the birds that you used to see around here.
Why do you choose this field as your career?
Definitely. I'm calling to tell you this.
if I were you, I ’ d buy that now while It’s on sale. If you spend more than $ 100, you get a $ 50 voucher for more clothes.
Pardon me. I need an old music box.
That's it!
No, the roses are good enough.
I guess it is lost.
Congratulations! Is it a boy or a girl?
Crazy is too kind. Insane is more like it. Nuts! Wacko! Psycho!
Not a great deal.
Could you check my list to see whether I have forgotten anything?
So you can download MP3 music from the Net and record it onto the MP3 chip?
I stabbed his belly three times.
Well, a good rule to follow is, for men you hold out your hand, for women and children, you wait and see what they do.
About David? No, I didn ’ t hear anything.
Step out of the vehicle, please. Sir, what do you have in the back?
Since we're late, let's go to see a film.
Do you have any identification?
Where is that?
Yes, With pleasure.
Well. Tea represents another facet of popular culture. While a coffee bar is usually quiet and resonates with soft, elegant music, a teahouse is often a noisy, crowded, public space. People visit teahouses to associate with others, playing chess, chatting, or simply listening to operas.
Would you please countersign them here?
Hello, My name is Candy Brown. May I have your name?
Thanks a lot. It’s very kind of you.
The chicken breasts cost $ 4.05 per pound.
I'm glad you know someone. I knew you would be the best person to ask about this. I don't want to insult Jill or her mother. I think Jill maybe could do it.But I'd rather have someone a little older.
Yes, but do you love me?
Hello, are you Chinese?
Well, my dear, I didn't believe it either. But I got it straight from the horse's mouth. David called me this morning.
Yes, I am going to meet a client.
Did you? How is he these days?
It looks like it may rain soon.
Sure. Your room number, PLS?
Well, no-that is, I've heard Linda say they do, but... Thank you. But please don't speak to me again.
I can't see Cortex on this floor plan. Don't they have a booth here?
Well, I ’ m not everyone-else ’ s father. I think you need be in the house by ten o ’ clock.
It's... oh it's the 1st April, April Fool's Day.
A new car for a start.
You need something in your stomach when you take it. Don ’ t drink alcohol with this medication.
Oh no, Ari. I didn ’ t mean for you to pay for me when I invited you to go tonight. Let ’ s go Dutch. I ’ ll pay my own way. I insist.
So you are saying that I should eat, but I should just watch what I eat?
I'd like to make a reservation to Los Angels for next Monday.
The aircraft is equipped with onboard phones. They do not interfere with the communication and navigation of the aircraft.
Come on! Stop being so vain. You look great! You are beautiful!
Call her on my cell phone. Wish her “ Happy Birthday! ” Tell her you are out exploring the great American wilderness. Tell her I said she is lucky to be born on Independence Day.
Mom, give me a glass of orange juice.
It wasn't that bad, and you're the one that insisted on skipping dinner.We went to an excellent restaurant.
No, not that one. The red one.
How do you do, Ms. Chi?
I'm afraid we're really staffed this week, Mr. Li. I'd like to meet you, but I'm sorry I really can't.
Not for a couple of years. What happened to her?
That's too bad. Can I take another train?
Then, what do you think I should do?
Yes, very much. But I need peace and quiet when I'm on holiday. What are coughing to do?
I need to find this newspaper article.
When's your birthday?
If you say so!
Good. I'll get my coat and come downstairs.
More than six years.
got it. Thank you very much.
Yes, if you consider 7-11 is a supermarket.
A Mac is a very popular brand.
Instead, I sit down and have a good snack like a piece of fruit between meals.
I don ’ t try to go ahead of people and lead them, I ’ d rather cooperate with everybody else and get the job done by working together.
Jen, is there someone you're not telling me about?
It wasn't always like this, you know.
Which John? Mr.Turnbow ’ s son?
Sure, is dry white wine OK?
A week or ten days. We'd like to have a quiet room, if possible-not too near the street.
I told you so.
yeah. I found it is so close to our life.
I'll go get the check, since our server doesn't seem to be headed this way.
That'll be $ 70, please. Will you be paying by cash or charge?
Whole Foods is way better than Sons, trust me.
Good evening. My wife and I would like a room, please. Is there any room available? We don't have a reservation.
Now let's begin the class. Who is on duty today?
Registration plus overweight, 7 yuan in all.
What's Net Love?
I want to be like her.
Who can tell us something about the author's life? Volunteer?
soup always makes me feel better when I'm sick. I hope it makes you feel better, too.
being famous, I can do without, but I wouldn't mind being rich.
When do you celebrate Thanksgiving?
I'd like to open a current account.
Fine. I'd like to reserve one for next Tuesday.
I like gardening. I take care of them everyday. I like those flowers and the swing in my garden. If the weather is nice, I would like to lie on the lawn.
Can anyone tell me where I can buy the ingredients to make Chinese food?
Then we drive west on the M25. we must be careful to turn in the right direction!
I ’ m included on your list of references, right? My praise of you could really make a difference.
it was also a proud day for me, but I also felt like a kind of loss that day.
Oh, I see. Well, I ’ ll give you my phone number and if you need a guide, please call me.
OK, let me see. This white shirt can be washed in water with hands, but this suit and the woolen sweater should be dry-cleaned.
I will need to tear down that wall to fix that pipe.
Why do you want to spend your summer days in a mountain village?
R :: From April 16th to 20th.And which kind of room would you prefer, sir?
It smells sweet. Mom and May are gonna love it. Get them for dinner, Daniel!
Ouch, that hurts — did you have to mention her name?
It’s a inside room on the eight floor.
Oh, Look at the baby.It ' s so beautiful.Is it a boy or a girl?
Hey Nick, what are you up to?
She is absolutely wonderful.
Yeah, where is yours?
My brother did it.
I'm so glad that the spring festival is near at hand.
Excuse me, what's the actual flying time from here to Zurich?
The craftsmanship is excellent.
Why didn't you want to go out?
is it a horror movie?
Wait a second-are these pictures copyrighted?
And let's get a loaf of bread at the bakery for breakfast.
Sure thing. Do you want me to give you a ride home?
Yes, well Miss Childs did give mean overview of the position over the phone, but there were some details I ’ d like to clarify.
It sounds like a good plan to me. I'm still... I mean...
My boss wants me to finish this project tonight.
Are there other places, outside of EDD, that I may look for work?
I assure you that you're paying for quality.
Very good, sir. Will you register, please?
Grand Central Station, please. I want to catch a 6 p. m. train.
Did you have fun there?
The main product of Chende is various kinds of ferine mushroom and the almond. The mushroom tastes really good, and it is very different from the common mushrooms, and the snack made of almond is delicious.
What happened to John?
Aren't you lucky. The vintage-clock guy is driving a hard bargain. So I have nothing.
How about going swimming?
I think your presentation impressed the client, Daniel. You did a good job.
Not at the moment, but I ’ ll let you know.
In tens and fifties, please.
Room service. May I help you?
Excuse me, I am Dunlin. I am here about your advertisement for a tourist guide. Are there still any vacancies?
Sorry again for bothering you.
Two stops after this one.
No, I ’ m afraid we don ’ t.
Well, the most important thing we need to do is make sure that our name and contact information are across the top.
I'm sorry to hear that. This room is at the end of the corridor. It's possible that the noise is heard early in the morning when everything is quiet.
That's fine.
Well, if you want to look professional, serious and more conservative, a blue dress, white shirt and not-too-high shoes would be the best choice. But sometimes, very formal clothes will keep you at a distance from your colleagues. It depends on the company ’ s dress code.
I don ’ t know! This stupid old car started spewing white smoke and it just died on me. Luckily, I managed to start it up and drive it here. What do you think it is?
What's your schedule like this year?
Yes, my house is far away from here. May I ask for an apartment?
I wish you had been my history teacher! I might have got better marks!
How do you like skiing, Pat?
I'm buckled up. What's next?
Good morning. I want to remit 1,000 yuan to my sister in Shanghai.
Oh, I ’ m sorry, Ms. Montgomery. I ’ ll come back later.
You're most welcome.
Of course I have plenty of time. What's new?
Certainly. My name is John Sandals.
We ’ ll then make an offer as soon as possible. I hope a lot of business will be conducted between us.
You never guess she is going to have a baby.
I found it in today ’ s apartment ads.
Don't worry. We will look it for you right now.
No, but it will be soon. Look, there're two empty seats over there. Let's get them.
Well, why not dine out together and go to the moves.
December 23rd, please.
sure, but you really did great and outperformed the others. You deserved it!
I have some problem with my work.
It is. We study hard all week.And then, on the weekend, we party hard. That's the best way to live.
Yes, your wife and your dentist called.
this movie are so woke.
Do you know how to turn them on?
So I think I may fall in love with her.
How much is the hat?
Hey Claire, you've been really quiet these last few days. Is something wrong?
It's OK, don't worry, we'll just choose a wine from the cooler. We don't have quite as extensive a selection over here, but... this Rhone Valley white would be lovely.
But it's short already, sir.
Sounds OK to me. I like movies. Hey, Joanna, look - there are a lot of decent-looking guys here. And the club jackets - they're really hot! I think we made the right choice!
OK, you win. You pick the restaurant this time.
Would you please explain for me what a business contract implies?
Naturally, I appreciate your efforts in pushing the sale of Japanese arts and crafts. But I'm not in a position to discuss your proposal today. I must first talk to our director, and discuss it with you some other time.
Let me enjoy it.
I make a mean potato salad!
Why not listen to music online?
You should wear a tie to go with your suit.
We could, but it looks like It’s going to rain soon.
You have a pager?! That's a little high-tech for you, Stu. Are you sure you know how to use it?
that cake tasted so good! It disappeared within minutes, so I think everyone liked it a lot. How ’ s that stain?
So I take it you two are hitting it off? I know it's very convenient to be in a relationship with your neighbor, but what if you break up?
Take a few days off from work and don't wear yourself out.
Mr. Chen himself has become an authority in this area, and master of butterfly sample making, I should say.
Did you forget to put anything on the list?
You are right. How about paintings and embroidered handkerchiefs?
Oh yeah! I'm a great rapper. And I know all the Vanilla Ice lyrics by heart.
So confusing! In my day we got an A or B if we were doing well and if we failed an exam we would get an F!
Let's get this card for mom, it's funny.
It's OK. Don't worry about it. Our school coach will train us to play basketball.
Paris in the Spring.
It's on the first floor, to the right of the main entrance.
I ’ m actually travelling around Asia.
I ’ ll go to your apartment tomorrow to fix the pipe.
OK, I got it.
275 dollars is the lowest price I can offer.
Oh, that's terrible. Do you want to get a higher salary in our company?
Oh, hello! Sorry about that. I'm just calling to say that we've received your new Corporate Credit Card from HQ.
It's nothing to get upset about.
Oh, how nice! there are bright rooms and the house is very quiet.
Not necessarily. This is only what she says, not what she does.
I didn ’ t think of it that way.
hey, the new SOHO. How's everything going?
I'd totally die if she turned me down.
Glad to. The Fair is a big gathering taking place twice a year, thousands of businessmen from more than a hundred and fifty countries and regions are here to trade with China.
Yes, I ’ m new.
It's a pity that I'm too busy to see you off tomorrow.
No kidding. Not only can ’ t I stand the pain, but man... dentists are expensive. The bill is going to be humungous!
Ann, this is Sam. Look, Ann. I wanna see you again. How about a drink tonight?
You look wonderful.
I can't believe she would do that to you. It's so dishonest-and rude!
Stand back from the door, please. Let the passengers off. You can't get on until the other passengers get off.
What do you mean you already voted?
Good morning, sir. May I help you?
Begin at 9 o ’ clock sharp.
The murderer was sentenced to life imprisonment.
In a while, crocodile.
How do you do, Jack. Nice to meet you.
I can't wait to go skiing tomorrow.
Could you run over to the store? We need a few things.
That ’ s correct. we have four seasons of spring
Thanks, but I couldn't eat another bite. I'm really full.
Great! So, are you ready for a full day of shopping?
sure, bob! I ’ m on chapter 12 now, so I ’ m almost finished.
Hi, Bob, this is John Lin.
Hello, I'm Jack. Are you Christina?
Do you know what's wrong with my PC?
A movie sounds good.
I think I can commute that far without any trouble.
Well Rebecca, is there anything else you need to know for now?
That just stands for Greenwich Mean Time. Here in California, we are in Pacific Standard Time, that is eight time zones west of Greenwich. Remember when we were in Beijing? Well, then we were in China Standard Time, and that ’ s eight time zones east of Greenwich!
Thank you. Here ’ s your change and receipt.
Sorry, I don't know, there's something wrong with my watch.
Yes, not only a good way to keep in shape, but a good way to relieve stress as well. While you're stressed out by your commute, I'm releasing all the stress of the day with mine.
You should have seen the T. V. show that was on last night, the topic it covered was really interesting, animal rights.
I only need to take this week off.
I understand. I used to live in a dorm with four people. I was great in some aspects. We always went out and and had fun together. But on the other hand, when I wanted some quiet time, and people kept
All right. In that case we are still willing to do business with you.
I am Chinese by birth.
OK, we have tickets at 100 yuan and 50 yuan.
Okay, sir. But don't take too long. You only have 30 minutes.
You ’ Ve been wasting your time on this? I can ’ t believe it! It doesn ’ t even look fun or challenging!
no dissert, thanks, just coffee.can I have the check please?
We aer looking for someone who is familiar with the market and cultural issues to act as an advisor to our marketing staff. We would like to set up a partnership, where we can help each other.
Hello, Mr. Liang. I've done with the work. My report is here so please give me new instructions.
Fill this out, please.
Are you looking forward to seeing that big concert next week?
All right. Now you can take your case away.
I ’ m afraid I spoke in all of the table clock.
Anytime except today.Please give him a call before you come.
Hi, Mr. Wang, what can I help you with?
I am sorry to hear that. It shows that you should buy companies, not ideas.
What do you mean by saying so?
Thank you so much for coming tonight. Everybody really enjoyed your performance.
I can see the teapot, but I can ’ t see the tea.
I hope they ’ re not too hard!
No, she ’ s average.
Oh, My God! That's terrible.
how can I get it, please?
Did you think it wasn't real? That's my pet lizard.
Yes! And there are more bargains. See these pajamas? If you buy a pair now, you get this teddy bear as a gift!
But you should tell me you were in love with her.
Yes, we do, debit or credit?
Ugh. Another advertisement. They ’ Ve added two hours of advertisements to a two hours movie.
Yes, please. We're on our way out, so we put the ' make up ' sign on. Could you bring us some towels and hangers?
oh, that sounds wonderful. I have always known you two would make it. I hope I can keep in better contact with you guys. I don't want us to drift apart again.
No, I'd like to do something special for you on your birthday.
Just follow the foot movements. Brush left, brush right... yeah! That's it!
Three hundred! That's daylight robbery. How dare she play tricks on an old hand like me? Without hesitation, I gave my offer---no more than fifty.
Can I have a bottle of champagne, lobster tail, and filet mignon, medium rare?
Yes. Usually only TV towers are cylindrical in shape.
That'll be 60 dollars.
I haven't told you what happened yet, have I?
What sort of clothes does he wear?
"Ok, so how about this, "" This is Abby and I am really happy you called! I promise I will give you a ring as soon as I can, so please leave me your name and number. Talk to you soon! ""."
I had a pretty strict upbringing, and my parents taught at an university so they have extremely high expectations for me.
Okay, I see the problem. You forgot your code, didn't you?
If your uncle had an alarm system, then it wouldn't have happened.
That the conference was lit!
What's wrong with the fax machine? Is it urgent?
Yes, it has. We ’ re going to target the business community through business magazine.
What's your favourite steps?
Okay. It will be a new experience for me.
Thanks for inviting me to your friend ’ s wedding. I was surprised to hear the bride and groom talking to each other that way during the marriage ceremony. Is that common?
So what can we do?
they do. Once my son was born, there was no reason to drive this car anymore. It's only a two-seater, you know!
Come on, Let's go for lunch, Gregory.
And your toast, light or dark?
Smells good! I ’ ll make some coffee. Do you want me to make you some eggs?
May I know what you do?
That means a lot to me Dad. Thanks.
well, first of all, It’s much bigger. It has the same number of rooms, but each room is larger. We also have a larger garden, which our dog loves, of course!
Dad is bigger than you, but how come I'm smaller than May.
I am sorry. I am very tired. I'm going to bed early.
Because I am very interested in administration and I did take some courses in it. I also performed well in the subjects. Hence I believe that I can do a good job in this position.
Oh, no wonder you're so respectful to her.
I will contact the sellers with your current offer.
I think you have chicken pox! You are contagious! Get away! Don ’ t breathe on me!
Yes, he did. He telephoned at nine o'clock.
Good afternoon, Mr.Stein. I wonder if you are free tomorrow evening?
Excuse me. Does this train go to Brooklyn?
I've got it under control.
Well, that'll teach you to control your temper.
Ah, that's the biggest fun of all. You see, even though you're not a good singer, people will listen to you.
Sorry, but we can't do anything without the receipt. Come back with it.
In other parts of the world, especially in Africa, there is a problem with desertification. Climate change and over-farming are causing farmland to turn into desert. In means that people cannot grow e
Your desire coincides with ours.
OK. Here's the key. Take care.
Sir, the filet mignon was so popular tonight that we ran out. May I suggest the porterhouse?
Oh, yes. Mother's Day is coming. Do you plan to buy anything?
Hello, Bobby, It seems that I can't arrive at your home by 12 o'clock.
Yes, of course. It's really worth visiting.
You sure have a lot of discs here.
Is there any furniture?
It’s right here.
When, exactly do you need to leave?
What's your little caper? Come home so late! We are all worried about you.
Why ’ d you transfer here?
Why are you celebrating this festival?
Let's just rent one this time. The AC is broken in the truck, remember?
15mins before the plane takes off. The plane is scheduled to leave on time.
I love that they put a wine storage area in the kitchen.
Their goalkeepers got injured after the first goal, but he kept on playing anyway.
A movie? Sure. Do you know what's on right now?
I want to subscribe to The New York Times.How do you feel about it?
Oh, my! Really? I never thought he would be like that.
Sure. Wait a moment. ( Several minutes later ) Here you are.
I wouldn't recommend sending Ivan now.Especially not at night. The roads aren't safe.
No problem at all. Could I have your full name, please?
Please pull your table down. It's lunch hour.
Sure. The exhibits on display were really fascinating.
That dress looks lovely on you, but it's not very practical, is it?
I think it's time you took another does of each. What would you like to drink with them?
It's just near the Dong Si Shi Tiao subway stop.
It costs only 25 yuan.
Just a moment. I'll check to see if she is at her desk.May I tell her who is calling?
Yes, if you could. I mean, if you could read it to make sure there are no mistakes.Or maybe you'd have some suggestions.
Are you well paid?
Then what about the wire?
No, thank you. Just the check.
I don't like the style.
Thank you, but it was your hard work that did it.
That's true, but then you have to buy a record player.
Ok, thanks. I'll let you know what I find.
Yes, it is. Kelly?
The apples in my room were delicious. Bring me a few more, please.
When did you buy it?
Hey, it's not that bad. The food is nutritious and it's really convenient. I don't want to spend too much time on eating stuff.
Regular or large?
Wow, It’s nice. What did you say about the rent?
I ’ ll see you then. Good bye.
I never did like this MP4 anyway. I won't hear of it.
And what's more, when he told me he had caught a cold for several days, I suggested him to go to the hospital as soon as possible.
You were dull at that time.
How do you like the apartment?
Yeah, what't the bet?
Hi, Mrs. Henderson.
That's the spirit. Never give up on your dream.
Well. First, make meaning clear by using concise forma language. Second, describe accurately the exact requirement. Finally, state clearly the permissible variation in quantity.
Well, then, may I invite you for the first dance?
It was boring. The music was too slow and the food was lousy and, above all, I was really sick of the same old crowd all the time.
What kind of books interests you most?
Haha. Don ’ t worry, Betty. So tell me, what ’ s the latest gossip? Unless you want to keep it to yourself.
Well, I do like the mantelpiece and the coffee table, but I don ’ t really care for curtains. Did you get them at a yard sale? They look ancient.
Can I pay by private check?
You didn ’ t tell me you were working there this year.
Your card was declined.
There are several Chinese writing programs you can use with Macintosh.Chinese is no problem for Apple.
And Merry Christmas!
Oh, that would be very useful.
My car has broken down.
Here is an invitation for you.
I have, actually. How about the movie, Million Dollar Baby with Clint Eastwood?
You ’ re working hard, George. What are you doing?
OK, OK. I'll whisper it to you, but you have to promise not to tell anyone!
I usually do housework in mornings. I go shopping occasionally. I like to do all my shopping in one bag trip to the supermarket. I always drive to the big supermarket in the city center. It takes about 20 minutes to drive there.
Yeah, I ’ m trying to decorate my house.
Have you had a chance to look over the contract?
I work as an accountant for a Romanian telecommunications company.
I want to give our kitchen the works.
I suppose you're right.He can't have remembered.
Tea does good to people's health. There are many kinds of tea.Say, black tea, green tea, scented tea, brick tea, milk tea, Jas - mine tea, chrysanthemum tea and so on.
Never mind, come right in. I've almost finished.You always keep the room neat and tidy, I must say.It saves me a lot of work, but you should let me do it.
Got it.Let ' s call these two and see if we can make appointments to see the apartments.
Oh, oh, that tears it! I'm getting out of here.
You can pick it up in half an hour. By the way, how are you going to pay, cash or credit?
Do you want to go shopping with me?
I would like to meet on Monday.
I think I prefer train. It's cheaper and safe.
No, thank you. I go by there on my way to work.
We're completely open on Saturday.
No, not on the train, but in the station.
Honey, I have something important to say.
Yes, and the driver didn't speak any English or Chinese and he didn't have a phone on him-can you believe it? - and his radio didn't work. So there was no way he could get in touch with the office to get them to send another taxi.
You're just jealous.
These pajamas don't fit right. They're too long.
They sell them at the business office on campus.
Ah, you changed so fast.
Yes, it is on our list.
I haven't eaten there before.
What do you mostly do during your workout?
I'm pretty good. Thanks for asking.
Not at all, sir. Here you are.
PCC is a wonderful institution.
I don ’ t like the color.
How much does it cost to rent a mid-size car?
I need you to help me.
OK, I will see it soon. You can go back now.
We need to figure out how much money we ’ re spending and what we ’ re spending it on.
Fortunately, things are changing these years.
Are dancing figures a part of any of the boxes?
I believe it'll be very expensive.
I agree, I think that that would be perfect!
That is so thoughtful of you.
Do you care for seafood?
Well, yes, I ’ d like to, if It’s not too much trouble.
Oh, I ’ m so sorry.
The tape player doesn ’ t work.
If you're interested, you can fill out an application form.
I played the video game at Mike's home yesterday.
Yeah, but I don't usually have time to eat a big breakfast.
I would like that.
Well I wish you luck.
if Barcelona had played as they normally do, they should have won.
I would like to reschedule.
That sounds kind of boring. Oh, look. They're dimming the lights. I think we should get back to our seats for the second half of the play.
My brother won a free trip and he's taking me.
Is the math wrong or the way the answer was marked?
So, shall we allow three hours to cover the distance?
Can you play tennis?
Yep. They're prescription contacts with UV protection.
Not at all. Turn left out of the hotel and it's about a five minute walk.
I'll give you a call later. We should hang out. It's good to be around people.
Hi, could you help me? I need to make a dinner reservation.
What a shame! I didn't see them.
I like playing basketball. Basketball is a very exciting game because it keeps you alert and I also enjoy the team spirit of basketball.
In fact, they ’ re both very excited about the coming baby. Evelyn imagines what their baby would be look like, since one parent is American and the other one is Chinese.
I've actually never tired. Do you have a surfboard?
Just sign right here, please. That's everything you need to do.
All the fruit are pretty fresh here.
Have you a pattern in your mind?
Here are your two receipts.
I'm sorry. I'll get you a new player.
Ok, here are your tickets in Row 13.
Thanks, I appreciate that!
We also serve sandwiches and cakes.
We can certainly give you faster turnaround, but it will cost you extra.
Why, what's the lowdown?
It’s expensive, too. Let ’ s just sit in the sun and go swimming instead.
Show me your document, please.
Come in, young man.
Sorry, we can ’ t come down any more.
Well, that ’ s the problem. We never seem to have ' typical ' days, but you'd spend about 30 % of your time on the computer. There would also be a lot of telephone time, setting up appointment, and taking care of a lot of support work.
Que bien! Sentences poems habeas en espanol!
Levis. It's the latest fashion.
Light music and classic music.
Let me see.En.. it's right now.You can try it.
Is there an additional surcharge for the gym?
Oh, that's Matt.
No, I'd rather send it by sea.
I'm glad you guys all have such a good sense of humor. Ha-ha...
About 40 percent, if he speaks slowly.When he speaks fast, I can only catch a word here and there. But Mr. Wang is an excellent Chinese teacher.With his help, my Chinese is getting better and better e
I still have no idea what to do now.
Yes, I'm hungry. What types of food sound good?
I went to a boarding school from nursery school to senior high school.
Great, do you need directions to my office?
Fifteen minutes? I ’ m sorry, but I ’ ll have to call back. I need to get back to work.
Yes. Which channel is for opera?
Steven, can you give us a summary about your work? What do you get from your work?
What kind of promotional events are scheduled for the new product line?
So I should write my strengths in the introductory letter, especially those related to the work.
So what? Are we going anywhere?
How about Connecticut? Where's that?
Mike! Good to hear from you. How are you?
Recently I have been getting headache and my eyes come to see focus properly.
It's of good quality.
Please let me check. Tomorrow afternoon - Yes, he'll be free from 2:00 tomorrow afternoon. Do you think it's convenient for you?
We paid for the room service already in our room.
That is true. I ’ ll list for you the requirements of almost all the universities. First of all, you need official transcripts of your undergraduate work, three letters of recommendation from your professors who know your competence, and the official TOEFL ( Test of English as a Foreign Language ) score ( It’s usually 550 ). Then you need a financial guarantee, and an application fee of 25 dollars.
You have to do something romantic.
When can I see it?
What do you mean? We ' re talking now, aren't we?
An aisle seat, please.
Uh, yeah. And I've seen guys in pads tackled. We have no pads. I don't want to be tackled.
No, I just need the sheets.
We have to go to the mammal area. We are at the gate right now. We need to go straight from here and turn left and go along to the end and make anotherleft turn.
"Yes. I got the title of "" Advance Worker "" in 2006."
My name is Derek Schneider, S - C - H - N - E - I - D - E - R.
Since this is a sizeable order, I was thinking you might give us a 5 % discount.
Unfortunately, we're out of filet mignon at the moment. May I suggest the porterhouse instead?
It doesn't matter. Forget it.
Can't you see the notes here?
nothing but bench of commercials. These days the amount of commercials is amazing.
Yes. Come with me to the vitamin section.
OK, can you tell me the distinguishing features of this backpack?
Haven't you heard that he is in prison?
I don't think so. Let's walk by the stream. I am sure we can find the waterfall on the map.
Sure, what's wrong?
Yeah, my friend is getting married next month and I ’ m supposed to be a bridesmaid. I have to fit into my dress and look nice for her wedding, but I haven ’ t lost any weight! Look at these love handles.
How much for the pass?
Well, people from Asia to Europe all enjoy tea.
No problem. We can do it right now.
From 200 to 800.
I was really glad to hear about your award, congratulations!
Yes, madam, I agree. What size are you?
Sure. Let ’ s go. What are you going to have done?
If you insist, I can show you the brown sets. I'll have to warn you that they're very ordinary, though.
Sure. So let's see. We need a piece of wood 3.5 m long by 1 m wide. I'll order it right away and I'll be able to install it next Tuesday.
Good. How about the table set?
Is that so? I didn't know it. can I possibly borrow a jacket and a tie?
That's true. Many people from the south don't like the weather here.
maybe he is busy with his work. Just wait and try not to think about it too much!
what ’ s the cheapest way to go there?
I would like the extra lean.
I like to travel light so I just have this one.
Let's go to Burger Queen for lunch. They have good cheese burgers.
Oh? That's a surprise. Let me see... D 0411 Our dog's birthday. Yes, I'm sure this my parking space!
Yes, please. I'd like to buy a gift for my younger brother. He's going to take a trip to South America.
Not quite, if we get too heavily in debt, the shares will tend to drop.
I would recommend doing some squats. Spread your feet about shoulder-length apart, toes facing forward, and slowly bend at your knees.
Don't worry yourself too much.
I see. Moblogging must have done a great favor for habitual bloggers like you.
Well, some money of course, a vise, all my identity cards and some photos.
Yes, here you go.
Do you have to remember every text?
How's that.
Have you read anything else besides literature?
Yes, I am going today.
I mean we can inspire him for a deeper understanding of the natural world.
I usually play with my school-mates.
No, you don't! I should treat my new brother-in-law!
Good morning. Is this where I can get a library card issued to me?
No, I don't. I don't have a family, so I don't think I need it.
Okay, what about the first woman?
Oh. If you had talked to me first, we would have given you a raise.
Relax, that was just the horses and donkeys that are in the stable.
Yes. And could I have your name?
I'd like to order breakfast, please.
Certainly. After all, I've been here for two years. It's not much uphill work for a foreigner to get used to Chinese dinner utensils. Though, I do feel hazy about how to behave appropriately at a Chinese dinner table.
Thank you, Ms. In. I'm here to discuss the possibility of establishing business relations with your corporation.
Are you going out again?
Actually, I prefer to eat at home, and then we'll have more time to have a chat.
And your stereo too. So what did he steal? We have to go look upstairs.
I get paid on Friday, I'll pay you back then.
I don't know. I saw him the first time Tuesday. He was at the cafe. I noticed he was looking at me a lot. Not just the usual looking, but staring.He just kept staring at me. He didn't stop.
Would a slight decrease in pay be worth it for a new opportunity for growth?
This is Ryan. How may I help you?
Really? Say it!
Hmm. You have three cameras. Are you a photographer?
I ’ m going to be fine.
Listen to the sound of nature! It's like music.
Ok, right this way. What color did you have in mind?
Ha ha, come on! Well, I ’ Ve been watching what I eat, and working out three times a week. By the way, I heard your son recently graduated!
Well, my friends and I are planning on going to Shangri-La on Saturday. Do you want to come with us?
I am interested in switching fields.
Fantastic! I got an overall score of eight.
Lucy, what are your priorities when buying a car?
Fine with me. I know the laws of the road. I'm not worried.
You must be Mr White from Britain.
Well, I hope that I do well.
What rental do you offer?
May I ask the date of your birth?
My birthday is in June, when we are always on holiday. So my family often forgets my birthday too.
Please write down your name, address and the amount of your deposit here. And please choose a passcode of six numbers and confirm it.
You should be, because you ’ re a part of history.
Are you a transfer passenger, sir?
DEL is the best choice.
He didn ’ t say it was bad, but he said that it wasn ’ t as good as it could have been, particularly as there were some good actors and actresses in it.
Don't be proud. You'll gain a lot in the following job.
definitely! I would include one or two on each page if possible. Remember that you should make the report as eye-catching as possible.
Yes, here is the form for an expense report. Fill it out and give it to me. I ’ ll get it signed for you.
Would you please fill out the form?
that's a very difficult language to learn, isn't it?
I can leave the parcel with you, can't I?
I'm going to New York to visit my sister. She is in art school. I've never been to New York before. I'm kind of scared.
It’s a prediction of your month, based on your zodiac sign. You have a different sign for the month and date you were born in. I was born on April 15th, so I ’ m an Aries. When were you born?
I'm knee-deep in cockroaches!
News about current affairs, documentaries, music, movies, noncommercial ads and so on.
Next time we are about to dinner we should try some Canadian ice wine.
I want to buy a gift for my father. Will you go with me to choose one for him?
You'll have to pay 20 RIB, and then you will have your Southern Fund Management company card.
Can I have a month-to-month lease? I only want to rent the apartment for five months.
What wrong with you? You look pale?
I'm really confused, Zina. Will you explain all this to me?
Maybe you need a vacation or something, or maybe a bonus.
Yes, it is. But we'll be making a decision on it pretty soon. Why don't you come in and fill out an application?
Maybe I could have a try.
I have the driver ’ s license, a membership card and my passport. Would we do?
Come on, it's easy, and it'll make you feel good. Why don't you come with me tonight?
I have to go home now, Jenny. Thanks for inviting me to your party.
Are you going to cook it tonight?
Well, I hate the noise in the city, but I love being around lost of people. The problem is that you can ’ t have lots of people and have peace and quiet. The tow just don ’ t go together.
What words? Can you tell me?
Would that be a Fixed Deposit or a Current Deposit?
Ann, let's go, or we will be late.
My name is Mary, and I will be your waitress tonight.
We're going over to Mrs. Smith's place to help her with her yard work.
Why not go to Paris? It's famous for Arch of Triumph, Eiffel, versailles and place de la Concorde.
No, I haven't.
Look at those broken tile countertops and the peeling wallpaper.
Where are you going to study?
It's defective.
Well, they have the most advanced snowmaking machine.
Tonight at seven.
Yes, I can. I don ’ t ride regularly though. How about you?
I didn't know you were a vegetarian!
Including tax, your total will be $ 32.42. Cash or charge?
I love you, happy anniversary.
How would you like your bills?
I see. It's safer then right?
We need to set the table for four.
When will I know your decision?
Would you like to sit in a smoking section, a non-smoking section or whatever comes open first?
It will do.
Room 1419. Here is my key.
That's very good!
Can't you see the notice here?
let's see how much the bill is.
Yes, of course. Is American Express okay?
Peter Kaufman, P-E-T-E-R ( Peter ), K-A-U-F-M-A-N ( Kaufman ).
I just hate being alone at home with nothing to do about listen to the clock ticking.It ' s so lonely and boring. My sickness makes it worse. When will I recover?
like most foreigners, I really like Sweet and Sour Pork and Kung Pao Chicken. I eat them almost every day.
I heard about a software program called turbid. It automatically submits a bid with just a few seconds to go in an auction.
Are there any clear answers in the book to this question?
I only watch now.
I know loads of people who play it regularly. There are plenty of golf courses around the country. In the past, only a tiny number of people played.
All right, thank you, see you.
she's terribly sorry about that. She had to leave the office suddenly and won't be able to return until next week. She hopes you understand.
Yes, it is your choice as you are paying for it. Make a wise investment and choose the best inspector you can find.
Well, you can pay by mail, telegraphic or SWIFT transfer. Or you can have a banker's draft and mail it yourself to the beneficiary.
What is the completion date?
Wow, this thing can haul.
Could I pay for my parking ticket?
When you're thirsty, you're not supposed to drink soda.
It worked out well that the wine that I brought to share seems to blend well with this meal.
never mind that, I'll take care of it. Are you available next week?
It's worth the time.
You may ask questions about us, if you have any.
Thank you for your interview with me.
Can I ask what the position pays?
Yes, I finally have an inspiration.
I'm going to buy a new living room set.
You saved my life yesterday, Rachel. I can't believe I forgot to bring my wallet when we went to lunch with those clients.
if you want spicy food, then I'd recommend going to a Thai, Indian or Chinese restaurant. How about that Chinese buffet on Cowley Road?
A correctly filled in application form, ID card, proof of residency, proof of income, the agreement from the agent and of course the 20 % down payment.
I know, I left it at home.
What fun! Normally I ’ d love to, but I ’ m afraid I have to work late tonight. We ’ Ve got to get the contract ready for Miss King.
how did you meet each other?
Good idea. Let's goa
Thank you, Mr. Smith. Your phone will be disconnected after this phone call. Have a nice day.
That's my business, not yours.
Me? Why me? Why not you?
Mary, can I get Josh or you something to drink?
What's the weather today?
No.It was very close and they argued over the bid for a long time. Better luck next time.
Next month. I think. Are you going to sign up?
Horowitz, I beg to differ. Even in your most recent study, the investigative approach was flawed! You know as well as I do that the collection of data was not systematic, and there is a large margin of error. To draw a definitive conclusion based on that data would be misleading
that's so disappointing. I don't know why top athletes would feel the need to take drugs.
I'm sorry. I can't quite follow you. Would you mind speaking slowly?
How much are the roses?
What a boring film!
It costs less to wash here.
Hello, Mr. Thomas. Could you spare a minute?
Looks like a standard lease.
Dick? How come? He used to be as meek as a lamb.
Now he's looking over here! He's coming!
I hope you'll visit us again, sir.
All you do is type in the number on the back of your card.
Yeah, I have the same feeling. Also there is another thing that bothers me the quality. Things in a department store are usually quality-guaranteed. But at a wholesale market, you never know whether what you are buying are of good quality or not.
So how about an aperitif?
the rapidly expanding economy has encouraged many students to pack their bags AMD head for home.
I'll go take a look. Thanks for your help.
Look for the blue signs and blue marked spaces. Do you usually park in the daytime or the evening?
With the development of the society and technology, radio is nearly everywhere.
it sounds interesting. I'll take one.
I asked Santa to bring me a new sweater and some computer games.
Excuse me. Do you know where I can find a pay phone?
I am not a child at all. I know more.
No. Have a seat.
Would you please give to me, and will imprint it?
Just things we need for the picnic tomorrow.
Oh, how awful! May I have a look at the invoice?
How much per night are we talking about?
They should fill in an application form, hand in the copies of Identification Card and household register.
What about the working hours?
How happy you are! I have to stay at home to prepare my final exam.
Have you checked the fuse box?
Fantastic! I ’ ll be there!
I just lost my job. I'm just worried about how I'm going to pay the bills.
My name ’ s Terry Graham. You ’ re new around here, huh?
It suits us fine. We ’ ll see you then.
Who do you think will win?
Alright everyone settle down. Let ’ s get started.As you know, an important aspect of becoming a good citizen is understanding the genesis of our legal system. It is not enough to simply memorize our laws, it is necessary that we comprehend why and how they were formed. This brings me to our topic for today. Does anyone know what we celebrate on May first?
I applied online.
maybe that's why some young chaps often spend a whole afternoon in a coffee bar, surfing the net or just typewriting something with laptop. While they are savoring a coffee at a leisured pace, they
What is life?
I know it is not the cheapest on the market. But if you take the quality factor into consideration, you will find your company will benefit in the long term. This device is built in with the most advanced technology. Every aspect has reached the international standard. It is a worthwhile investment.
That ’ s another 15 miles, so that ’ s 22 miles total so far.
It's just a ticket.
Yes, Sunday sounds fine. What time?
Do you know anything about Britain and America?
Are you having a big wedding?
Yes, I'm going to the cinema, dad.
How do we spend our holiday? Do you have any good ideas?
Wow, you've talked the talk. Now it's time to walk the walk. Here we go. First, can you tell me something about the ancient Olympics?
We also have packages with all the sports channels.
How long do you plan on staying?
Thank you.You ' re partial.
No sweat. Just go back and talk him down. Here comes Wei.
I'll send somebody over right away to fix it.
That's a good choice. How do you want to pay for it?
Fine. Have a look at the timetable to find out when the next one arrives.
Congratulations. You should be very proud of yourself.
Our major is from a bigger city.
No. Actually I can stay longer. Dave called to say that there is a beautiful Chinese girl who ’ s going to pick me up at the school gate tonight at ten thirty instead of eight thirty.
Yes. Are there chances for employees to be transferred to overseas branches of the company?
that ’ s great idea. But don ’ t the tv station lose a lot of money because of that?
Have you got any hobbies?
Come on, fellows.Let ' s enjoy my wife's cooking!
OK. Do you want a trim, or do you want to get your hair done?
Well, this desktop over here is our latest model. It has a four gigahertz processor with sixteen gigabytes in RAM and a hard disk with one terabyte. Of course, it includes a mouse, keyboard and desk speakers.
I hear that you are going to participate in the dinner party tonight.Seen from what you are dressing, you really look like a fox.
Hello Martin. Have you been to any events yet?
Your appetite is good.
actually, some of my fondest memories of my childhood were of spending time with my family in the basement waiting for the tornados to pass.
Well, Miss Liu, I've enjoyed talking with you. Thank you for your interest in this job.
I see. I guess diapers and baby food are expensive.Bringing up children is not easy.
Hi there. I need to change some dollars into local currency. Can I do that here?
Well, thank you.Mr.Parry, for all your information.Just one more question.
Which university will you go to?
Of course, I think so. But how can you prove to me that you are more capable?
So what did you get?
Yeah, we did get off too early.
Yeah, you have some other ideas?
There is something wrong with my girlfriend.
The requirements are strong communicational skills, management and work assiduously. And you have to handle the recurring crisis good-humoredly and discreetly.
The problem is that many poor people might suffer.
Interesting. What do you think about families with only one child?
I know it's so exciting! A new year is always like a clean slate. Fresh start to accomplish any dreams, objectives and goals.
Our price will be not less than $ 5000.
I would like to speak to Mr. Miles.
We should do this more often.
Who do you know there?
I am sorry but I ordered sole not the same as the others. Will you change it?
Oh, I am sorry. I misunderstood. Well, in that case, the contract can be canceled with a 2 month's notice. What do you say?
Nice to see you, too, Steven. Goodbye.
Hi, Bill, this is my new car.
It looks like it's going to be sunny.
That ’ s correct. It’s a murder mystery based on actual murders that book place in florida several years ago. The main character-the police invesigator-is based on the man who investigated the case.
I am sorry. I didn ’ t accomplish the job on time.
Just the video.
What was the charge for?
I apologize for forgetting myself, but I do need some time off.
I see. Have a look at this one. It’s very cheap because It’s not very durable.
Take it from my savings account.
I'd like to have the film developed.
Well, give us a call if there's anything more we can help you with.
Well, don't do this again next time. What is it about, anyway?
Ok, that would be great.
May I ask your birth date?
How fresh is that apple pie over there?
I love the peaceful life in Canada.
And I need to stretch my legs now.
Were you at the scene during the robbery?
Fine, what time do you want to get up?
Ah! She has a bad memory.How old is she?
Yeah, you ’ re right. Can ’ t go wrong with that.
Don ’ t worry. I don't think you ’ re going to lose your job over one mistake.
The number I am calling is 86-10- 4016-9988
Me, too, I can ’ t stop scratching. They are everywhere! Sneaky little jerks.
Merry Christmas! Let ’ s paint the town red.
Yes, of course. Assembly would be quite a simple matter. Cycle dealers could put them together in a very short time.
2,000 AD $.
No, thanks. I am okay.
Sure, what can I do for you?
I'm not sure, you know I'm not familiar with the city, too.
Yeah, that'll be fine.
Oh, yes. He's brilliant. Did you like the title song?
Waiter, come here please. Could we have a doggie bag?
Employees in this company have to have a good command of English. Do you think you are proficient in both written and spoken English?
That's so convenient. Where are the dirty clothes?
Yes, five to six weeks.
Sure. Please tell her that Andy called.
Well, I ’ m looking to get a custom-made suit.
Thank you very much. That ’ s very kind.
right. You can ’ t blame the tv stations for showing popular kinds of programmes. They need to make money from advertisements shown during and between programmes.
I was really sick.
No. That ’ s all. Thank you.
I am looking for a growth opportunity, which I feel is not available at my current employer. In terms of skills, I am Microsoft certified in Windows XP and several other operating system
OK. Can I see the room now?
Oh yeah, I saw the tea house the other day. I think I might go and have a look sometime. It's a nice neighborhood here.
Yes, I'm the third child.
That's right. I drove it into a lamp post. Can your mechanics repair it?
What are you guys doing over there?
That's the plan.
What kind of material is this?
Ah, Bob. Just the person I wanted to see.
Well, wish him a happy birthday for me.
I really need more information about the job before we start to discuss salary. I'd like to postpone that discussion until later.
True, but our focus has never been affordability anyway. Coastwise, we may not be very competitive, but qualitywise, we definitely have an edge.
Yes, I'd like to see that pen.
Can I help you sir, what do you need?
A bunch of us in the office are planning a retiring party for Bob, he's been with the office for ages, so everyone was really surprised to hear he took early retirement.
OK, do you have the relevant materials?
I'm going to America.
It’s really unimaginable. The police officer screamed at the driver and used bad language, but the driver took it on the chin.
That's fine, but we have only a single room, is that OK?
The heat is driving crazy and I hate my new hat.
Not bad. But too hot for me today.
Because it rained last night.
Well, my watch says five past two, but it's no use relying on it, because it has been gaining and losing these last few days.
My parents called. As usual, they reminded me again that I should have a plan to marry by my late 20s. Easier said then done. Who should I marry? I have no time to go on a date.
how many TVs would your dream home have?
the survey said that the low, income groups eat more junk food on a daily basis.
Not always, and there're also few cars!
Shrimp salad. And what kind of pie do you have?
Yes. It's really snowing.
I ’ Ve been away on holidays for sometime.
Hi, I ’ m testify chen, the tour guide for the Ged Agency. We have a reservation of twenty room for tonight.
How about 6:30?
How much will my unemployment check be?
Good morning, sweetie. You finally got up.
Do you think we'll ever get to meet an alien from outer space?
It's fun walking around them, but their displays are so good I'm tempted to buy things I don't really need.
Ordinarily, as soon as you are seated, you put your napkin on your lap.
Did you just arrive in this country? You look a little nervous.
What do you think determines an employee's progress in a company such as ours?
Oh, gag me! She's totally gross!
I am glad you like it. Welcome next time.
Ms. Lee, could you tell me what number 7 is again? I didn't catch you.
All right. I'll show you something darker.Do you like this one?
Of course! Peking Duck is world-famous. I would love to try it.
well then, there's a Central Park. Facing the park on Fifth Avenue is probably some of the most expensive properties in the world.
You're really fit, Paul. Do you exercise very much?
and check whether they accept credit cards.
Oh, no! I can't have failed. surely?
I ’ m glad to hear that you are so excited.
Oh... I'm sweating already. It's so hot. I can feel it boiling! Can I get out yet?
But they aren't as light, right?
Both, doctor. I never get to sleep until two o'clock and I always wake up at five.
So, right at the traffic lights two miles up the road, then left at the plaza hotel, a mile along that road. Got it.
Here's the receipt.
Sure, where are you?
Ok, please just fill out this form and show us your ID card.
It's so that I can be put into the right math and English classes, right?
Just fill out this form, will you?
As long as we ’ re going, you can decide where to go. I trust your judgments. I know you miss Chinese food, so we can eat at a Chinese restaurant this time.
That is called a nuclear family.
I ’ m ready and willing to help.
Hi there Mr. Anderson! How are you on this fine morning?
The stop is really at the mall?
Dad, may I have a room of my own?
How beautiful the detached house is!
We have a guy who plays guitar, and another who plays bass. Although we still haven ’ t found anyone to be our singer. You told me that you had some musical talent, right?
What have you learned from the jobs your have had?
What challenges is your country's economy facing at the moment?
( After watching the movie. ) Are you crying?
That's really terrible. Oh, God, we forgot to cheer for Daddy.
Yes, it does.Here, I ’ ll box it up for you.
But I saw a red car always parking here before.
We will be coming to your restaurant on Tuesday night.
Just pass the gym and it's the first door on your left. Were you aware that you can also turn in your old textbooks for money?
Is it a through one?
Lester, you are really fantastic at automobile repair.
Oh, hi Justin. This is Karen Hepburn.We met at Chris and Jim's party.
I'll certainly try to help you. What topic is your paper on?
I'm almost finished.
The price tag says $ 99.99.
no, just soda.
What a shame! You should have showed yourself to them!
Well, we ’ d like to work with you. If you ordered a larger quantity we could drop the price a little. Can you increase your order to 15,000?
What type of information will I have to provide to the Employment Development Office?
How long did the convulsion last?
This is what my boss is expecting, Sandy. He wants a detailed list of expenses and equipment costs.
I got a raise.
I'm calling to cancel a reservation I made earlier in the week.
Ok. Just call me if you need anything then.
Thank you. When will I know if I am successful?
How long do you usually stay at university?
Yes, that's fine. I'll take it.Can I pay by check?
Definitely not. The most important thing was we loved each other.
I offer you 110 yuan.
I'll try one of these on. ( The customer tries one of the shoes on. ) It's too big. It slides up and down my heel when I walk around.
Fresh tomatoes, green and white onions...
We'd like to sign a year-long contract, if that's OK.
Would you stay for another cup of coffee?
Yes, Todd, how nice to hear your voice!
Hello, are you Muriel Douglas?
Won ’ t you get lonely?
Yes, I think so. My friend once used it mostly to play chess, but now he has learnt how to do other things on the Internet.
Oh, I'm not sure I agree with you. It was not a good one, but it was not the worst one. Actually, it wasn't too bad.
Mary, you have found several companies that are hiring, right?
I admire and work best with people who are of good character and integrity. I also think confidence and enthusiasm is positive in any business environment.
It's very good, and it's fresh too.
So, Jack, do you believe in ghosts?
Yes, I think So.
Oh, my god. I am so heavy now. I gain 10 kilos.
You ’ re having me on again.
Oh, My God! So much!
Our production people won't be happy about that. We've got a full order book at the moment. Is there any way you could speed things up?
Really? You didn't find a wallet?
Yes, I am looking for a suit.
Please, you write much better than I do.
The exact time? Let me think. You know, it happened at night.
I would like to cash my undue Large-Amount Deposit Certificate, please.
No. I am a transit passenger going to Sweden.
I am so sorry about that. It was just a slip of the tongue.
But I haven't used exercising equipment before. Can you tell us some more details?
Yes. My company has an office here, and I have just been transferred.
How about a coffee in that cafe?
Would you consider having your parents live with you when they get older?
You are in love with Mary, right?
A double room for my wife and me, please.
Oh, all right, sir.
no, in fact, I was terrible at taking exams.
3,000 Yuan is a little bit steep.
That'll be helpful. All right, thank you.
Oh, what a relief! Thank you very much for your help, Miss.
How about the Mongolian hot pot?
OK, one with the apple pie pays $ 18 and the other $ 12.
that's fine. I'd like to be on the aisle anyway. It's easier to get in and out.
Don't worry about it. Tonight is my treat.
Can you type, Jane?
Certainly not. The object of weigh is to surround a larger area than the opponent. In other words, each side is struggling for a greater living space by mapping out a territory on the board. Hence, chess aims to kill, while weigh is most concerned with howso survive.
Oh, yeah. The total amount is no less than 13,000 RIB, according to our itinerary.
Can I borrow these magazines?
It is, isn ’ t it?
No, but I have taken elective courses in computer in college.
What color are her eyes?
Yeah, I do. I guess I'm a real fitness freak.
I have the chills and an upset stomach.
You'll never guess what happened today! I went to the doctor after work and the doctor told me...
With pleasure. I suppose you dance often.
I'm sorry, but Mr.Tomas left here just a few minutes ago.
So, Monica, how do you like your new office?
Sounds like it was meant to be.
My skin is oily.
I don't know. I only started looking for a job a few days ago.
ok. Hope it's a pleasant trip.
Rachel? I ’ m not sure how you want to handle this account. I think there are a few things to be sorted out.
It doesn ’ t matter. Oh, God, I have only four dollars in my wallet. Is that possible for me to buy one?
They would like to visit our factory and have a look at the new type computer products. Besides, they will introduce their technique in computer manufacturing.
What do you like for dessert?
what did you do over the weekend?
Then you just go straight on until you see the station ahead of you.
Yes, please. My name's Michael Caxton from one of your customers — Rosedale Investments.
I want to have a look at the microwave ovens.
I see. That ’ s ok. I ’ ll pay.
No, PLS post the bill to 124 Hildrod Lane, Milton County, 98830.
You have to maintain a balance of $ 10,000 in the account or the rate drops to 3 %.
I really want to be far away from the reality now.
Lisa, is there a milk section?
I've finished the first draft, but the professor said it's poorly written. I have to rewrite it. it's so depressing.
Hey, don't forget to buy a suit for me.
He doesn ’ t lift a finger! I bend over backwards cleaning up all day and he sleeps in until noon.
That's interesting. But it would be really expensive, I suppose. Just think about all the drinks.
Now, have you brought your curriculum vitae with you?
Mum, this is for you.
Here is five dollars.
I've got it. I like the sound of stepping on the snow very much.
Yes, he is running for class president.
I'll have someone bring that up right away. How would you like to pay for the dinner?
Yes, this system over here is on sale for $ 1,000. As you can see, all of the components are brand-name.
OK, next time you ’ re here.
Excuse me, do you know where the visa office is?
Do you live with your parents?
I sure will.
Okay, here's a new one for you.
OK. ( Sign ) Once a contract is signed, it has legal effect.
Do you really have all of these drugs? Where do you get them from?
Mrs. Montgomery? I ’ Ve been trying to figure out when we should have the New Year ’ s party. Could you take a book at these dates?
A copy or the original? I guess you need the original, right? OK, I'll return shortly.
she's a friend of Amy. We met at Amy's birthday party.
Well, just saying that you wanted to get promoted is not enough, you need to write down your desirable position and an available plan for achieving that adjective. Don ’ t be afraid of taking challenging. They might be opportunities and failing is not fatal. You learn more from that actually. Sometimes, you need to fail to be successful.
I am really pleased with it.
Yes. Of my mother standing in the kitchen and me doing my homework before school...
How long will we dock?
It looks like you're very interested in the circus.
That's the spirit. I'll see you tomorrow after class.
That is great. All I want is for you to do your best in everything you do.
Well. My watch says five past two. But It’s no use rely on it because it has been gaining and losing these last a few days.
Not bad.It really is great to see you again.Where have you been?
Well, I attend an aerobic class three times a week.
Well, that's only $ 4000. Didn't you tell me your budget was $ 5000? Where is the rest of the money?
Sure. Come over here. As you can see, I have a wide selection of species. They can live together, if you want lizards of different kinds. Do you have a favourite colour?
Oh, through a lot of hard work, of course.
With everything, with everybody, with all this!
I go to the fitness center every weekend.
We have lots of options, what type of job do you need?
Then you should shred your beef and pour some teriyaki marinade over it.
You never worked out?
Take on after each meal.
So, even if someone wasn't directly involved, they can become involved? Like the bank you cash it in?
So what's wrong with the drain?
Is it very interesting?
When I ’ m old, I ’ ll also be like that.
That sounds an interesting job, Bob.
That's Gucci's influence. I love science fiction movies!
The agriculture in New Zealand is highly mechanized. The industry mainly focuses on the manufacture of agriculture and stockbreeding products.
Pity I haven't. If I can afford it, I'll certainly take a trip abroad.
How were you sick?
Sit down, please. Mr. Tang, do you bring any paper or certificate with you?
Hello? Is the real Taylor in there?
Gordon, you're ever so late.
It's hard to keep up contact when people move around so much.
She's another applicant, and a leading contender, but I didn ’ t want to hire her. She ’ s qualified, but she doesn ’ t quite fit the profile. We ’ re looking for an accountant, and part of the job requires interacting with clients. Well, our clients want conservative people to handle their money. And green hair with ripped jeans doesn ’ t exactly fill them with trust.
Very much.What time?
Don't mention it. It's my pleasure. Have you been to one of these large, sit-down dinner parties since you got to New Haven?
yes. The sliced noodles they offer are among the most authentic Shanti cuisines.
It feels good. Are there cowl-neck pullovers with the same color? My wife prefers a turtleneck to a V-shaped collar.
There are prescriptions.
You come dressed in anything from the sixties.
I don't, but they talk so loudly that I can hear what they're talking about from my bedroom - and it's not very nice.
Fruit juice, milk or mineral water?
Do you really think I should wear different clothes?
And I saw that you took on board my feedback about pricing strategies. I really appreciate you taking the time to think though my suggestions.
How about the dessert?
Does that mean you're going to take my advice?
Beginning the first day of next month.
I agree. Both Joe and Mark are men of guts.
Of course, how can I help you?
Oh, I feel really tired and sweat a lot.
Thanks for stopping by!
I've tried, but she keeps pushing my buttons.
The brown leather shoes are OK.
Alright. I'll send someone over tomorrow.
Yes, they ’ re very fashionable, you see.
But that's better than keeping everything to yourself. You ’ Ve got to let her know. Come on! You ’ Ve got to take a chance. Even though you are rejected, It’s not the end of the world. There ’ s nothing to lose, is there?
He's such a mother hen.
Here, try this one. It's a good site about Normandy Landing.
Oh, is it? Thank you anyway.
What date would you check in, Ma ’ am?
Of course not. The foreign teachers also teach us English songs, and play games with us.
Don't just stand outside. Come on in.
It was good. I brought lunch from home today.
But isn't it too impolite to be absent?
Yeah, I know, this is Popeye's favorite food.
All right. Please wait for a moment.
Listen, you can not afford another day off. You ’ Ve called in sick five times in the last three weeks.
You want to take pictures of the inside of your pocket?
And it's been such a faultless performance with the perfect lighting, and music. Just amazing!
I ’ m interested in teaching at your school.
Excuse me, but can you tell me the way to the railway station?
All right. Wait for a moment, please.
That's incredible. I cann't believe it.
I want to go to Lid Hotel.
Excuse me. Is this where I catch the bus for the zoo?
Have you heard of Tiger Woods?
your boss is a real salve-driver, isn't he?
Your daughter. She sold it at the school auction.
It’s good. But to tell you the truth, I don ’ t wear perfume.
What about guessing games?
I don't know. I never went to one.
Yes. The two sides declared a short ceasefire but it broke down earlier today. Several military target were destroyed by bombing. Many civilians were among the dead and wounded.
do you know how to set the timer?
Honey, wait for me. I am too tired to move a step further.
What time is it by your watch?
Very good. If you enter this company, what department would you like to work in?
Well, I don't quite like the smell.
Well, I ’ ll have to discuss your application with my colleagues, and we ’ ll get back to you early next week.
You look pale, Paul. What's wrong?
It was great to meet you last week at the conference. I really enjoyed our conversation about foreign investment.
Did you check the internet for next week's weather forecast?
Are you sure? We can't really take it? I reconfirmed with Miss Peterson the other day.
Just use your head. If you were definitely making some big mistakes, you would be informed.
I hope that he would grant me with that.
I ’ m glad you like it.
No, it is not.
You are right. Anyway, things will be different as the days go on. She can get it. I have faith in her.
Not really. That ’ s pretty heavy metal.
Which kind of food do you like to eat, Chinese food, western food or seafood?
Hello. I'm hoping to buy some Treasury Certificates today. Are they available?
What are you worrying about?
Would that be a place that you might like to go to for your birthday?
In just one document? That will definitely be a time saver.
We'll see how much fun it is after they take all your money!!
Yes, that's true. Damn! I just lost half my paper, and now I can't even do my homework.This is a bad time for this to happen.
There's a bus stop in the mall parking lot.
Not a good day, I hate to tell you that Mr. Emory wants to see the designs for the Polish Paste Ad tomorrow morning.
But I doubt myself.
Can I help you in any way?
Those patio tables are new, aren't they? Would it be possible to be seated out there?
The pay must be good.
No problem. Did you bring any gifts back for your department?
The Japanese climate is warm and moist in the south, mild in the central part and cold in the north. Except for Hokkaido, we don't get much snowfall at all. France has a mild climate, doesn't it?
How long will you stay in New York?
A good friend of mine is there on a homestay program, too.
Hi, is that Jessica?
Could you sign the back of the check, please?
I ’ m sorry, but that ’ s our policy.
She's demanding. But I like that. I mean, I know our timeline is tight.
Yes, they are shy and gentle but very powerful.
What's your last name?
They have the freshest foods there.
No, I listened to the music, too.
I hear you jog everyday.
Hello. Overseas operator. May I help you?
Right. Let me see. You go straight down here and turn right.
It’s about as complicated as chess. The basic rule and moves are simple enough, but there are many strategies that players need to learn.
Sir, let's do it step by step. First, we will visit over 25 different places. Most of the places are in Hawaii ’ s Big Island. We will stay in Arlott ’ s Lodge
A driver ’ s license or something showing that you live in this city.
No, I haven ’ t gotten over there in a few weeks. How is he?
No. thank you. I can handle it, but thanks for the offer.
our headoffice is here in Beijing, but we ’ re planning on opening up two more offices soon.
Hi, I Want a room, please.
Fever and a bad cough.
That ’ s right! That ’ s the queen and that ’ s the king. If the other player captures your king, he will say Check Mate and the game is over! Doesn ’ t this sound fun?
OK, did you bring your household register or residence booklet?
Let's switch the lights on.
After this lunch, I haven ’ t got much green left.
Are you French?
I ’ Ve been really busy. How is everything?
Caesar salads are pretty good.
Well, after you've done your research, you have to decide whether the company is casual or formal. Have you decided what they are yet?
And look what we did to him! Hey... he left me his business card.
I want you to cut it to a few inches long.
Well, I'm afraid Thursday is out for me. I'm expected to attend a meeting of our personnel committee, and it's very important for me to be there.
What type do you like the best?
Good afternoon, madam. Can I help you?
A glass of Qingdao beer.
Is that safe?
I think so, but how should we write it?
I see. What did you tell her?
I think it's time you took another dose of each. What would you like to drink with them?
Rose-petal salad.
Ask me a question now.
I put it in the dressing room.
Six per day, and two after each meal.
This is not what I asked for, I'm afraid.
Do you have this shirt in a small?
this is the route I thought we could take on our hike on Saturday afternoon.
I prefer going by train, ever though it costs more.
Saturday my parents are coming to town. What's up?
what do you think? Does it taste good?
I wonder what he looks like. Oh, I can't wait to see him! His email said he'd be wearing a white hat. ( looking around for him ) oh, there is.
Could you show me my bill?
He seemed ok. We didn ’ t stop and chat because we were on opposite banks of the canal. We just waved at each other.
Really? I am sorry, sir. We will look into this matter. Would you please wait a moment here?
Just a moment please. Yes. You can have a seat.
Maybe you should invite her over for dinner, so it's just the two of you.
that needs to be cut into thin strips about 3 cm long and then it can be stir-fried on its own until its cooked through.
Excellent. As soon as we landed, we boarded a bus to Disneyland. I love Mickey Mouse. Janet and I spent the entire first day going on all of the rides.
Would you please weigh this letter to see what the postage is?
Mine was ok, except that no one in my class speaks English. I guess it will force me to converse in Chinese more in class so at least I should improve a lot this semester.
I'll be seeing you around.
How do you like your job here, Linda?
How in the world did you guess that? Did someone tell you already?
Exactly. We play every Saturdays on the field by the tennis courts. If you want to learn and play a little, you're welcome to join us.
What about the commission? From European suppliers I usually get a 3 to 5 percent commission for my imports. It’s the general practice.
Sounds good! I have always heard that Indian spices give a rich flavor to food.
Sorry, Mr. Polly.
If you could be ready by, say 6:30 o'clock, I'll be at the hotel to pick you up.
We apologize for any inconveniences that may be caused by this. If your flight is urgent, I can put you on a waiting list for another flight this evening, but it's on a first come first served basis, so there is no guarantee that you will be able to take that flight.
Yes, please. We ’ re on my way out. You can put up make up sign on. Could you bring us some towels and hangers.
I wish I had been there!
There are many services you can choose from. Why don't you take a look at this leaflet while I find someone who can help you?
That ’ s weird.
Yes, it is. Thanks. I ’ m just surfing on the internet.
that's easy. It's important to have the saddle high enough so that your legs can extend fully when you are on your bicycle.
The code is 880, the area code is 010, and the local number is 8824578 4
I prefer the British paper, but I'll read whatever one you aren't going to read right away.
I will open it for you right now.
I don't blame her. I really enjoyed it there when we went a few years ago. I'd like to go back sometime soon.
I am calling about the advertisement for a flat with a bedroom. Do you still have it now?
Good afternoon, Johnson.
What kind of life do you prefer, city life or country life?
Don ’ t make a fuss. Many people divorce after having living together for many years.
No, thanks. I'm not in the mood for traveling.
Here's my name card.
Are you saying you saw an eagle? There are no eagles here.
I know, I know. But I don't want any worms.
Actually, it'll save you money.
I need to have some money transferred from the UK, from my company. It's kind of an emergency.
Hi Cody, how did practicing go this week?
Sure, if you show me your passport.
Well, to encourage future business, I'm prepared to reduce the price by 10 %. We can't go any further.
Do you have clubs?
Yes, thus the employer can know you very well, and then decide whether you are the right person.
Me, too. I'm sure she'll do better in the next tournament.
If that's what you want to do, then we can.
Well, Jeff, that was a very productive meeting, I thought. You had some really great ideas in there!
And so I bought all these books on having kids and...
You're really sporty!
I do wish I could afford one.
First of all, we'll design a custom-made work-out plan according to your habits.
of course! You can't go to Paris without going to their famous art gallery! I was surprised by how small the Mona Lisa was though.
It is great. But Tom's bike is so much better than mine.
OK. I will be there.
Please put your name on this list.
Not really. I like looking on the internet at what ’ s available, but I usually prefer to actually see and touch what I ’ m buying before I pay for it. Sometimes, I ’ ll look at something in a shop, but later buy it online if It’s cheaper. You don ’ t like buying things online, do you?
( several minutes later ) Now it's done. Is it satisfactory?
Yes, it is. But it is full of fun and knowledge. What about you, what do you like to do as hobby?
Yes, this is the right desk. Have you any luggage?
I didn't prepare it, but if you want, I can cook some. What soup would you like to have?
You must be Wily. It's nice to meet you.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that, sir.What exactly is problem?
Worse still, he is trying to avoid me these days.
But for what reasons? She doesn't even know who I am.
Michelle, Can you help me clean things up before we go?
I would like to buy two bottles of brandy.
Okay. See you then.
Thank you for inviting me. See you then. Bye, Tom.
You need to pay these fees soon.
No problem, we pay 3,000 RIB per month. Plus a 20 % commission on all, a company car and other benefits. All travelling expenses will be reimbursed by the company. Do you have any other questions?
In 2009 Cambridge will come to its eight hundredth anniversary.
I think it's just a matter of getting used to it.
Why don't you make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich?
Yeah, I'm going to be making phone calls all day. What a blast.
Sure, I've been meaning to visit that place myself.
the tuition is the same for all of them.
I'm calling to see if you have made your decision. You are the right person we are seeking for.
Good idea. How much do I need to deposit?
Talk to you then.
I need order in the court!
I'd like to have a glass of tomato juice, please.
Mr. Tang, we have decided to hire you. How much do you expect to get a month?
What are you doing this weekend?
Yes. I promise it will not happen again.
Will you give me some suggestion?
All cleaned up. Are you ready to start on the washing up?
Ok. I ’ ll let you know when I ’ Ve sorted out my clothes.
Please think it over.
Just a casual one - a sport jacket. This one looks nice. I ’ ll just try it on... yes, that ’ s fine. I ’ ll take it. Here ’ s my credit card.
The time period is set on June 29th.
Come and sit down. Would you like a drink?
Can you help me figure out how to use this vending machine?
Does it have enough lodging?
Many people gain weight by drinking far too much soda. Soda should be treated seriously ; there's simply no nutritional value in it whatsoever.
Why do you buy stocks, then?
Yes, I think so. Can you say it again?
Don't worry about it. It is true that pot is illegal in America.But the laws aren't as strict as in Taiwan.If people are arrested, and they have a little pot in their possession, they don't go to jail. They just have to pay a fine.
Yeah, yeah. Anyway... I'm packed. Are you?
Excuse me, do you have a vacancy?
Yes. I have to take a conference. Are you English?
Wow, Michael Jordan ’ s slam-dunks are beautiful things to watch.
And in my opinion, medicine is making us healthier.
Walk along the way and then turn left, It's right there.
I think you've got a flu.Take this prescription to the chemist's and then go back and sleep.
I'll call you later.
And I'll stick with real coffee.
Mr. Jackson, I've drafted a schedule for your business trip next week. You may have a look.
I would be interested in a ten-day trip around Christmas time.
Sorry, I've got a meeting from nine to ten.What about Monday afternoon?
Yes, I am. Could I have the bill, please?
Getting the goods ready, making out the documents and booking the shipping space, all this takes time you know. You cannot expect us to make delivery in less than a month.
What special kind of desserts do you have?
Just take your golf club. I will pick you up Borrow.
I usually bowl with an eight ball. I like the control of a light ball. I can spin it more, so that the ball hooks.
Done. Here is my paper.
That's good. You can make breakfast yourself if you don't like it.
All right, young man. Tell me how it got started.
Shall I help you with it?
Two thousand hongkong dollars per night plus ten percent service charge and five percent government government tax.
No, is there a single room left?
Yeah. Whatever became of him?
Make sure you have your ID card. You will need it while you travel.
All right. How about this black skirt? It can be worn for anything---a party, a job interview and even a funeral!
Mainly plastics. Plastics aren ’ t bio degradable - they don ’ t break down easily in the environment - so they shouldn't be thrown away.
I see what you mean.
Do you need help with something?
Do you have a United States R. N. license ( i. e. Registered Nurse license )?
Yes, I'd like some information about the trains to Beijing.
I feel life is meaningless without him.
Let's hope for good cooperation between us.
Are there a lot of clothes?
The bell captain will put it in storage room. When you are ready to leave, you can claim your luggage from him.
What interests you in that type of music?
Guess what? I've got great news!
Was it a very old house?
Yes, I came to Beijing two years ago looking for new opportunities. I was lucky because my friend introduced me to my current company.
interesting. What do you think about families with only one child?
Sorry, we haven't made the decision at all.
Well, when I was about 10 years old, I started playing the piano. I think that's how it all started.
Yeah, they can enjoy themselves in the day time and it is not so hot.
Sometimes that's true, but not usually. Most feds are honest, hard-working professionals. It’s hard to keep highly trained people, so the pay and working conditions have to be attractive.
I can do all the housework. We don't need a maid.
Yes, I think so. The suit matches the trousers.
Yes, certainly, madam.
A bit over two years. This is a fast-moving company, and seniority isn ’ t the only factor in deciding promotions.
Is it good?
The thing with large countries is that often they have vast areas of land that are useless or hardly used. Russia and Canada have enormous areas of ice and forest.
I think the government needs a radical plan to improve things. The government just talks, but in the long run, nothing is done to improve the economy.
Not some crazy diet fat I hope.
My birthday comes next month. I want to hold a birthday party, too.
Thanks. Come back here next Wednesday to pick up your order, please.
The results of the poll show Bill Clinton's approval rating has gone up in his second term. Do you find that interesting?
Look, if you don ’ t love me, It’s not a thing, alright, we ’ Ve had our laughs, but I don ’ t appreciate... maybe It’s just time we...
There ’ s you receipt. Goodbye.
Well. I will tell you what, Mr. Li. I will review the contract and talk with management. Then we will get together and hash this out.
Would you be able to reserve it for me?
It sounds nice. We can't wait to visiting the factory.
But I am her brother, not her servant.
Steven, what's your idea of price?
Yes, I ’ m going to take a holiday tomorrow.
Thanks a lot. Goodbye.
I needed you to be done and finished an hour ago.
Yes. Here it is.
true, learning how to haggle the price is one of the things people have to pick up when they come to China for the first time.
Oh, George, what a beautiful day it is today! The sun is hot and there are just a few clouds scattered here and there! What a perfect day to be at the beach! The kids are going to have so much fun! And we ’ ll be able to relax in the sun while they ’ re playing.
Not very well.
Happy Anniversary, honey.
Most cleaning ladies are illiterate. But some of them do a very nice job.
Jared, I just heard about your father. How is he doing?
We'll go tomorrow.
yeah, it's hard to believe but true.
Sure. Can you get it yourself? It’s in the refrigerator.
Yes, we do, unfortunately we ran out of cars.
I ’ m sorry. We must have misunderstood each other.
That's great. I'd like to go ahead and reserve the room, then, for Friday, December 2, at around noon. This is a retirement party and we'd like to bring a cake for the guest of honor and some bottles of champagne. Will that be acceptable?
I tend to get bored easily and so love to keep myself challenged.
Oh, it does?
Do I have to take them?
Chill out! What's eating you, anyway?
Really? I haven't heard of it.
I'm waiting...
Of course, yes.They look nice.And they're not expensive.
Here you are. Take one at a time.
Bottom's up, and you're right. This meal is incredible. I wish I had known this restaurant before. Thanks for bringing me here. I know I'll be back soon.
Well, I hope it all works out, John. I think if you're part of the team, things will go well.But you know we'd all miss you here. So I won't say I'm happy to think that you're leaving.
The operation in the lab is radioactive and dangerous, so work with care. Have you got ear muffs and gloves?
It’s going to be $ 25.
OK, that's fine. Could you hold it for me?
So, why don ’ t you?
my family loves spicy food. We often eat Chinese, Thai, Indian, or Mexican food when we're in the mood for spice.
How can there be a traffic jam on a 16 - lane highway every day?
I believe most of them think of it as good public relations. They can promote their product and make their company better-known.
Thanks, Frank. I ’ d love to come. When is it?
Yeah, me too. Did you hear about Frank?
Well, you made a good choice. Coming to us, I mean.We have a full range of products from cosmetics to skin cleansers and moisturizers.
So, what did you say when he asked you how long it took you to learn English?
Then they also shouldn't tell us if the robber is male or female, because that is sexist.
we should probably think about going somewhere that isn't too far away. How about the countryside? There must be many interesting places, and we could enjoy the fresh air and the delicious local spec
They say that Showing wine tastes quite good. What's it?
Excuse me, are you Mr Williams from America?
Thanks, you too, how see your maxes sometime.
Can you please show me?
Great, here are some flowers for you. I hope you like them. I was not sure if the color will suit your new apartment.
Frank ’ s getting married, do you believe this?
I was hoping you would come.
Oh, the bus is gone.
Right, we have an urgent job this morning but we should finish around lunch time. We will then come straight over to your house.
Can you make the tea, Sam?
What function does this watch have?
What are you planning on cooking?
Do you really have to work today?
Really, life is so boring.
Thanks. Have a good one.
So where should we go?
All right, can I have your passbook?
Yes. Is it wrong to lie to them even if it is for their good?
I ’ m fine. Is everything fine in the family?
I'm still suffering from a little jetlag.
Eric, how long will you be in China?
The hours and limitations are printed on the card and this handout.
I'd like to go to an Italian restaurant.
Hey, it's an English song! Sing with us, Ryan!
The soil would need quite a bit of fertilizer to grow anything. And it would need to be protected from the UV radiation.
How is the project going?
But didn ’ t you say that his Dad takes him under his wings?
That's really interesting.
That's impossible! I'm talking about Mister Taylor Smith.
I will join John in his mountaineering trip.
You got it. Well, he walked up to me and said my name again and then I realized it was the boy I had been thinking about, the one from third grade!
How do you spend your afternoons?
Well, two hundred yuan.
Can it hold soup?
It's nice talking to you. But I have to go.
It sounds OK. Then how do you pay the commission?
In 50 Yuan or 100 Yuan would be fine.
Yes, I do. Do you accept American Express?
Do you think my briefcase is big enough to put in all these stuff?
I'm sorry. Has it been bothering you?
Almost. I ’ Ve put up the decorations, and we ’ Ve decorated the Christmas tree with plenty of tinsel and baubles.
I'll have a good day once this day is over.
Okey. The interest rate for time deposit is higher. Could you tell me it's RIB deposit or currency deposit?
It doesn't work. It looks like it's broken. I need to get to a hospital. You should drive me there.
I had planned to. I can bring some from my place. And there's some more at my parents '.
OK, I will do it right now.
We have a special on these skirts this week. Would you like to try one on?
I'm a little worried about my host family. You know, in the agreement I have to do some cooking for them.
But it's still early.
Do you have it in size L?
Yes, the weather sure is nice today.
I was hoping to get into something on campus, but my friend told me that everything is full.
Here's my VISA.
Before disembarkation, please get ready.
really? How did you do that?
I heard Tom was caught stealing something again in the supermarket.
Yes, they're in... let me think... Aisle 3B, if I remember right.
What an interesting idea, Ms. Wilson. Would you also be willing to accept a cut in initial salary?
It's fine. Please wrap it.
"What do you mean "" a loud train ""? "
Hmm. But we would meet every two weeks.
However, he disappointed us very much this time.
I live in Altadena.
We're leaving now.
About three times a week if I can.
I really want to go, so I hope that she gives me my invite soon.
You can take any bus except the Number 9.
I have no idea. He seemed to enjoy the dinner very much.
Thank you. That's enough.
Neither, can I have them scrambled?
I'm afraid so. I don't remember you telling me about it.
Happy birthday, Peter, and many happy returns of the day. Here's a present for you.
Could you copy this document for me?
That ’ s all right. Hope you can do better tomorrow.
Don't ' Uh, Dad ' me. Sit down and have some lovely breakfast.
Uh, when you live off campus, there might be a certain amount of flexibility in choosing roommates that you might not have when living on campus.
I think you ’ ll needs just vacation. Try to get out doors more. I ’ ll be sure if you get more rest.
Did you hear the good news?
Well, what do you think about our very own hotel restaurant? It is very upscale, with a three-star rating.
Is that all you would like to check out?
Let's get it back.
Me, too. Why don't we get ready now?
Did you make us get off early?
Hello. Excuse me. Do you know if there's a Commercial Bank around here?
It isn't gratitude. It's fear. Vince is afraid I'll jump to a competitor.
Although it's expensive to send it by airmail, it's quicker and safer than by sea.
Did you have something on your mind? You look so concerned! Maybe I can help you!
I'm awfully sorry, I have other plan.
Yup.Hey, do you want to see a picture? See, he's eating lunch.
That's very nice. Is it for sale?
Could you hold my umbrella when I get my keys out, please?
I would like to report a break-in.
I think I'll get a hat, too.
No, nothing else. See you Monday.
Hello, I want to know how much it costs to have a manicure and pedicure.
I know, and normally she's trying to tell me how to clean my house. So, thank you.
All right. And here's your deposit book.
How about anything for dessert, like an apple pie or ice cream?
He ’ s not answering. You ’ d better check his pulse and breathing.
Thanks. Things are going to be different now.
I'd like a bag of Doritos with that.
are you doing anything this weekend?
After all the crises they have survived together, her husband should do such things. She must feel that she ’ s been stabbed in the back.
Thank you, doctor. I'll do as you say.
I think it's quite enough. I'II have them bought for you as soon as possible.
Owl! I've twisted my ankle. I slipped on that greasy patch over there. I don't think it's broken but it really hurts.
What time would you like your table?
And I really like the smells and colors of spring.
Trust me. I'm going to wake up.
Glad you like it.
So you're saying I can't go wrong with anything I order? In that case...
I ’ ll have to weigh it first. 120 yuan, please.
That's why many people died in the earthquake.
He had his car stolen. Actually he was kidnapped while he was in the car.
You know, I fell in love with this house the first moment I laid eyes on it.
What's wrong with you? You look pale.
net really, no. we'd preferably like to live in a quiet street.
Thank you for understanding. I promise I ’ ll make it up to you.
I've lost my Traveller's Cheques, all of them.
The ground beef is $ 2.48 a pound.
He says kick mommy, beat mommy, don ’ t want mommy very quickly if I do something that he doesn ’ t like. You know, if I wash his face or change his clothes, things like that.
It should be handwashed with cold water. It's a common sense. Don't you know it?
Well, I'll see you at 6 p. m. Do you know how to get there?
You're supposed to drink water when you're dehydrated.
I think you should definitely consider it! This way you won ’ t have to juggle such a busy schedule, and you ’ ll still get to spend time with the kids in the evenings. I can refer you this great nanny Amy. She used to work for my neighbors, before they moved away. She ’ s very responsible, a good cook, and great with kids.
I'm not married yet. It's my engagement ring.
Oh... wait a minute... here ’ s my driver ’ s license.
Of course. It’s a terrible night, isn ’ t it?
Yes, I have a driving license.
Do you need every color in the rainbow?
You have good taste in music.
That ’ s just it, I ’ m not happy anymore, Tim. It’s not you, It’s me. I know that I can be hard to deal with, and you are a great guy! You are the type of guy that any woman would kill for!
For example, if your credit limit is 5,000 RIB and you owe 1,000 RIB, your available credit will be 4,000 RIB. So, your credit limit drops.
Don't tell me you're a salsa expert, too!
I get it pretty bad. My whole face turns red, including my ears. My eyes become bloodshot, and I start to itch all over my body.
But I think Eddy is going too far!
I'd really like to help you out, but I am broke myself.
Yes, then enter the bathroom, There is a stove tired with wood in the room, and on the top of the stove, there is a pile of stones, which keep the heat. Throw some water on the stones, and dry steam is given off.
It's a large sum of money. I can't afford to lose it.
Thanks, Jim. I didn ’ t think guys paid attention to stuff like that.
Every Saturday and Sunday
That ’ s not too expensive.
Do you often buy magazines?
What about measuring the floor for a new carpet, and the walls for new wallpaper?
Thank you. We'll bring the receipt up to your room when we get it.
Young people ought to carry out their responsibilities. If it's needed, they would live with their parents.
Huh? You are breaking our rule already! And we didn't even start to play yet!
It certainly is. But the work is also hard here. You need to put a lot of hard hours on the job to succeed in this field.
the youth hotels are comfortable and cheap.
She will be back soon.
Oh, right. I forgot about that. Sorry, I'll pay cash.
What conditions are there on the store policy?
I took summer school. I withdrew from two of my classes last year so I wanted to make them up.
And she is thin, isn ’ t she?
How about you? When are you leaving for Berkeley?
No! So... is Halloween essentially the same thing as ghost month?
Of course. What do you want me to do, Mom?
OK. I have written it down. Who is your emergency contact person in America?
No problem, sir. If there's anything else you need, you can find me at the desk by the elevator, or you can call housekeeping if I'm not there.
I'm sorry to say this room charge is yours.
What college are you attending?
A coffee grinder?
Would an order of only 100 units, it'll be difficult to work within that kind of budget. Maybe if you were ordering 500 units or more units, we might be able to work something out.
I think we should go out to eat.
Well, we hit it off with each other. Nothing more, nothing much.
That's too bad, anyway, I'm sure things will turn around next semester.
The damage and compensation item confuses me. Could you give some explanation?
Wow! Anything else?
Not really, just take a wild guess.
Are you still working in Youth International Travel Agency?
I guess we should start with nominees first.
you could try. It would save you a lot of money.
are you a blogger?
I don ’ t know. How about you? are you staying here or somewhere.
I'm Mary Kelly. May I ask your name?
Ah, that's a good idea. But I heard the film club of our school would show a film for free. Maybe we don't need to go to the cinema.
Come on, 18 points already, they are never gonna catch up.
All set. May, can you help me take all these things to the living room?
Do you mean that it is a trend for men to trim their eyebrows?
Would you like to register now?
What information will I need to provide to apply for unemployment?
What other activities will you have tomorrow?
maybe I've got a higher EQ. I'm not sure.
I'd rather have meat.
The boss is mad at you.
I've created a monster... you're a better bayer than me!
Yes, I agree with you. I am going to find a good company and invest in it soon.
The landscaping is wonderful!
I hated the hand-me-downs to wear when I was a kid.
They were not too bad. I really liked my poli-sci class.
I learned to be patient when dealing with customers complaints and try my best to solve them. In addition, I learned at my previous jobs how to cooperate with my colleagues.
Oh, yes, I do. My present job is similar in that respect, and I think I ’ m doing a good job.
Well, I thought it was not that serious.
It seems that the traffic sign is much more important than the map.
I have no problem with that.
YOU GET ME!
no, there were too many people. When she got out of the car, her fans were all screaming, trying to give her flowers and ger her autographs.
That ’ s true. I think zoo are a good idea, because they allow people to get close to animals. I think It’s good for kids to see wild animals.
It's getting late. I really have to go.
This is silver gray, while I remember your handset was black.
Arm - I think it was in the CD shop in the Mall. Have you been there?
okay, let me think. What about a party-and-movie night? We can rearrange our reference room, invite a band to play some music, order in some food and watch a movie later.
We'd like you to execute the first order by the 31 st.
I appreciate you helping me with this.
It sounds perfect. Did you have any complaints at all?
No, less than that. One and a half teaspoonfuls please. That's enough for me. That was very nice.
It's George.
Well. As you understand, the irrevocable L / C gives the exports additional protection of the banker ’ s guarantee. We always ask for L / C for our exports, and the other way around, we pay by L / C for our imports. We only accept L / C for regular orders.
Anyway, It’s just a theory. Why do people go around touting theories? Where ’ s the scientific rigor in that?
To start with I would like something part time with the hope that it can develop into something full time.
How about the one next to the black gloves? It's very similar to the one you like.
Thank you for your reminding.
I'm watching TV.
You have gotten amazing success. Congratulations!
Hi. Is there a special rate for a group reservation?
Rough. Maybe you can do the most of the talking.
I see what you mean. I understand why you're concerned. Have you tried talking to your son about it?
That's the opinion of most people. Do you have your passport with you? I'll need to see that and you'll need to fill in this withdrawal form.
It's quit a big cafeteria, isn't it?
Advance Reservations. Can I help you?
Are you really dating with Frank?
OK. No problem.
There are shills. A shill is someone who bids up the price of their own sale.
We can't complain about the weather recently.
I'm highkey obsessed with this doctors.
Yes. It will be fun. Driving back down the coast. My girlfriend will like it.
For over forty years. The original company Davies Engineering - was founded in 1960 by the Davies brothers in a small workshop near Manchester. They closed down the workshop in 1980 and opened up a new factory in Leeds.
And just one more question, would you like to be an interpreter?
Sure, I ’ m heading out myself. Enjoy your evening.
Oh, Johnny, that stuff was dollar store junk. No, I want to thank you for keeping Grandma busy.
Most of them are not so practical. It will be very bad for your health if you skip lunches or supers as the recommended. I think making an exercise plan can be more effective.
Yes, I have. I tried once when I visited your country last year. I think they were very tasty. Can you cook them?
Oh? What's that?
You'll find it easily. Make sure you add the class and then we will look at the roll sheet later to make sure that you were added on.
What are you talking about? Where is your Halloween spirit? Didn ’ t you ever dress up in a costume and go around the neighborhood trick-or-treating with your friends?
OK! I'll show you how my mom did it.
I can ’ t believe it!
I got professional training in this field, and I believe I can fit the position well.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
Yeah. I have one from college at my parents ' house.
No. Just talk to your manager and let me know.
Thanks, Mrs. Doff. Please tell him to be at the airport at three p. m.
I can't open the door.
Could you take it to that counter, please?
Hi. are you new here?
No problem. How many are you thinking about?
I really need a new pair of trousers.
That would work for me.
is that your rabbit?
Me too. I love to play on the swing as well. Swing is my favorite.
That's good. See you on Friday.
Yes, I have my ticket with me.
Seven thirty. There is only 10 minutes left and look at the long line!
Oh, yes please! I'd love a gin and tonic.
Have you even tried to clean it once since you moved in at the beginning of the semester?
Yes, we do. How would you like it cooked?
What did you learn from your part-time jobs?
Then, Mary. We need 10 more loose-leaf binders, five pounds of heavy duty white paper, and what else did I say?
Please print out the meeting agenda for me to look over.
Julia, the apartment I looked at today is pretty decent-around 120 square meters.
I don't know. But this is definitely the last straw.
How about your academic records at college?
I want a pair of sports shoes, Adidas.
Thanks for your explanation, I would like it well-done.
Have you invested in the stock market before?
They must have just come back from tomb sweeping because today is Tomb Sweeping Day.
Spacious, bright and clean.And the walls were newly painted.
Well, I bet you will love them too. If you need help, just ask me any time. I am in the next door. You can also reach me through the extension 508.
Do you have pot service at noon?
Which one is best?
Dad, why are you taping the windows?
OK, I'll take it. Here's the money.
Shirley, do you know today's homework from our economic law class? I have written it on a piece of paper but I can't find it now.
Have you ever been tested for allergies?
Do you think so? I don't like it very much. I found it rather uncomfortable.
My head hurts badly.
Okay, it sounds good.
Brown, Jason Brown.
Good to see you too!
Okay. Mr.Liu, we'll inform you of the results within a week.
How's your married life?
Can you vouch for me that I was with you yesterday?
Yes, that will work out fine. Should we hire a band or bring in a DJ?
I would say do not make the e-mail exchange too long. A lot of times a connection via e-mail creates almost a false sense of intimacy. Quickly make sure there is a connection in the physical world.
Are you sure that this is the place to wait for our school bus?
I ’ Ve never used one before.
Yes. There ’ s one on the other side of the building.
They need to be there at eleven in the morning.
If you need to cancel your appointment, please give me a call!
OK. Now I'll put the dishes in the sink.
How about 12:45?
I don't know. I don't know too much about flowers. Can you recommend something?
I was assigned a project to design a 360 - degree performance system. It was a challenge for a person with a finance background. I met with the technical people and discussed the possibilities and obstacles. Based on that information, I selected a team and created a spreadsheet to manage the project. We got the project done on schedule. I was rewarded for outstanding results and was able to share the honors with the team.
Oh, but mine is a three-year program.
Yes, have you forgotten? We have arranged to go to Mary's to watch some videos tonight.
Yes, it's about 35 pesos for every Taiwan dollar, right?
Ha-ha! You got me there!
Please give me a piece of ' New York Daily '.
Nothing else, thank you.
Here is your boarding pass. Have a nice day.
What kind of snack are you going to make?
The couple with the dogs-think back.
I really like Caesar salads.
Egg soup is OK.
Yes, I like inventive jobs and I am capable and responsible.
But traveling is an expensive hobby, isn't it?
We offer many different payment plans. Would you be looking at long-term or short-term? Are you looking at a 10 - year repayment plan?
The cafeteria doesn't sell Kit Kats.
Maybe I should try looking on the web for work.
Definitely. Would you like skim or whole milk?
I like hitchhiking.will you go with me?
Bring them to my wife's car.
To tell you the truth, I don't think much of them.
This man looks very handsome.Is he married?
Of course, we do.
Well, that's great.
I think we might not see any.
They sell them at the shop around the corner.We can go and get some in a few minutes.
I ’ m sure we can work out some kind of deal.
Many reasons. I've been here for too long. Next year will be my five-year anniversary. I want a change of setting. Besides, our company is downsizing. I don't want to stay on just to be let go.
Oh, thank you! It's very kind of you. Ah, it is a porcelain vase.
Oh yes, and fruit, I love fruit.
Sorry, but I ’ m not really interested in those things.
Perhaps you would like to talk to customer service.
of course it does. Doesn't every new phone include a camera these days?
don't worry. I'm not much of a dancer myself.
That sounds like fun, but did you exercise?
Yes, Beijing has been grown over the last few years, there are a lot of improvements and changes being made for the Olympics. What would you like to see changing be made for Olympic, what would you like to see when are you here?
Ok. I will. Could you help me with the treadmill? I found it difficult to get the setting right last time.
I think you will enjoy your journey.
It’s not use worrying about it now. you ’ Ve done test and you can ’ t change any of your answers.
Please add to my account.
Ok, I don ’ t want a mouse in our house. We have the tidiest house in the town.
Oh I didn ’ t go. I stayed at home with my family.
Me too. I want to know more about you, eg, what's your real name and what do you look like...
What do you mean by that? Everyone can exercise!
How about your mother?
You look upset, is there anything wrong?
Sorry, what do you mean?
May I help you at all?
we can spend a few minutes looking around the church. Then, we turn right and walk along this path.
It's mild, but it's not always pleasant.
Did you find a lot of things wrong during the home inspection?
Have you had any experience with sales work?
Here's your Passbook back and the receipt to say we confiscated the 500 RIB worth of counterfeit notes.
Yuck. The carrots taste awful and salty. Hi sis, how do you like them?
I see. Is that all there is to it?
What would you do at the party?
Can I open it?
Well, I heard that naughty boys and girls get coal in their stockings, so I thought I'd be nice and make Santa cookies. I even left out some milk. I heard someone in the kitchen eating the cookies, so I came downstairs!
Did someone get hurt?
This truck flipped over on the 210.
What about driving to Shanghai?
Where can we have our laundry done?
Well, I think I'll take the bus this time just for a change.
I am not sure. What are you doing?
Excuse me. Do you think I can get there in time to catch the 11:30 train?
Sometimes, if there's music playing.
Good. Where can I get the questionnaire?
I love this art exhibition!
Er... I'd like to know what time it is now.
How long have we had the A3 printer in the sales department?
What a beautiful ship! Who ’ s this?
You look a bit under the weather.
You leave next Tuesday, right? What time is your flight?
Hmm. I think I should ask some of my friends for advice before I make a decision. I'm sorry.
Well, what kind of books does she like?
I hope so, too.
No. Constant drinking of over-strong tea would do harm to people's health. So don't make your tea too strong.
Why are you feeling depress?
I ’ Ve decided to grow my own garden!
Then, turn on the lamp, please.
Oh, I will.
So, show me the note please.
That's absolutely ridiculous!
Are you okay with me calling a plumber?
Our waitress has been kind of scarce tonight, hasn't she?
I knew that already.
I watched TV.
Where are you going to get it from?
Mister, I have an account now.
Kim, have you made contact with Mr. Lee?
I suppose she's right. Does she speak English very slowly?
I ’ m just calling to follow up on the situation of the salesman position.
Have you had a chance to go through them yet?
Do you know how to skate, like a skater?
I was planning on doing a lot of wallowing.
Sometimes people in different countries, or even in different parts of the same country have varying outlooks because of the tribe and culture.
I guess that one-piece isn't too bad, either. ( to be continued )
It’s an article about language. It talks about the idea of having a single global language.
What can I do for you, young man?
It's true. If a person doesn't exercise, they get sluggish.That ' s why I keep running. Even in the winter.
And so, I just wanted to check in with you and find out where we are with this project. As you know, you ’ Ve missed a fairly significant deadline last week, and this will negativity impact the team ’ s ability to move forward with the next stages of this project.
Really? What did you think?
I didn't sleep a wink last night.
Check out the flyer with all of the home ’ s information on it.
That sounds nice. Where did you go?
But I have my own car and my own house.
I like all sorts of movies, primarily drama and science fiction.
Oh, boy! This is going to be great. I'm going to the gym right now!
I should be done by Friday. I ’ ll give it to you in class then.
Okay, let's go!
In a second. Have you got a torch?
Thank you for coming, Ms.baker.
I was just going to do a little Sudoku while we wait for the plane to take off, so the Guardian is all yours.
Let me repeat that 626-555-1739. Okay, sir, we look forward to seeing you in April!
Have you been under a lot of stress lately?
I'll think about it after I start feeling better. Right now, I don't even want to hear the word snowboarding.
How long has she been in labor?
that explains it.
Haha... You are not very funny. I guess that means - - except me to tell my lover we have stoped seeing each other too.
The bus I took.
I ’ m sorry to say no.
We are in the same math class. Our teacher sat us next to each other.
It's better than picking up dog poop.
Should I take my shoes off?
A PB & J is pretty easy to make.
I'd like to rent a car for several days.
Right. Later he was a soldier and a fireman in the village. When he was middle aged, he became a great man, quite famous.
Would you tell me the nature of the problem, sir?
Well, you ’ re really as out-dated as she is.
Yes, I think that would be great.
Are you going to have this set course or have dinner in the dining room?
I'd like a trim.
I am sorry. Mr. Doff is out right now.
Now that you'recommending such enormous fees, producers, directors, movie-makers must see you in a completely different light.
Yes. It was a friend ’ s birthday party. We drank all kinds of things-beer, wine and spirits. After midnight, we were even drinking cocktails!
It doesn't matter. No one will laugh at you.
Well. We ’ re expecting about twenty-five people and we ’ d like to spend no more than $ 20 a head.
Hi, Rita, I ’ m just looking for a pair of shoes. I won ’ t be here for long.
We won't stay out too late. I just need to forget about work.
Yes, I'm looking for a cap. Size 16.
I wish we hadn't come up here. Now we'll probably be here for days.
Then you can help her with the breaststroke and sidestroke.
Could I see that automatic camera?
Would you be willing to meet the extra cost if we meet your additional requirements?
Sure. This is Nigel Smith his personal banker. Could you ask him to return my call?
We can eat at the cafeteria.
I will be voting.
Charge. Here's my card.
I'm calling today about a bill that I never received.
Hello, Mr. Hammer. Jack Ross here. I'm calling to confirm our appointment on Monday at ten o'clock in your office.
What can I do for you, Madam?
Well, I may have stayed on the phone too long. Can you give me her number? I'll call her later.
It looks good. But can I try it on?
How can we get there?
What's the price of these mangoes?
What type of movie is that?
Did you reconfirm the plane reservations for all the Taiwanese guests?
Pretty well. Everyone is working hard.
Yes, of course. The meals and excursions were included in the hotel price.
And my writing is not good. I feel so frustrated.
well, I quit and gained it back plus 5 pounds.
Woo cool. Which mountain are you going to conquer?
I look forward to more of musicians.
Hello? Can you help me? My computer! Oh man...
I see. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
You just ate.
Yes, I want to know about the battle of Gettysburg.
Well, the weather might have some influence, during bad weather the theater didn't make a whole lot.
Yes, I know it.
That's where you'll find things like salt and pepper.
It is a bit expensive. But it is worth buying one's favorite. I will take them.
It won't go in!
Sure. It's undoubtedly one of the biggest classical music events. Have you ever been to the live show?
Try to catch this bouquet then.
The stations are absolutely free to guests, sir.
2.50 Yuan.
What a brilliant smile!
If your wife and baby are both happy, what more can you ask for?
Oh, lovely.Where ' s the wedding going to be?
Four of us will be coming.
No. It’s Swedish. Would you like me to demonstrate it for you?
Please wait a moment, I will bring you one.
Then we ’ ll have to put up with it.
Yes. He ’ s so energetic. We take him out to the park every morning and evening. I think he ’ d be happy to stay there all day!
I think we can climb to the top, can't we?
Is the driving test difficult?
Well then, thanks for your help. Have a great day!
Look at the icon in the bottom corner of your screen. Is it flashing?
Oh, it's really fabulous. I wanna take a picture here.
Perhaps I'd better ring the police...
It is only a pin prick. I have to put this tourniquet on your arm to make the vein easier to find.
Sure, I ’ d be glad to. What time frame did he have in mind?
I wonder what happened.
Wow, that would be kind of useful, do you have any other cooking magazines?
I want to try different things before I find the one I really like.
Thank you very much.. Bye.
It is too bad today.
OK, please put it on this scale.Airmail or by sea?
Morning, Peter. Nice suit! A new one?
Can we step into the conference room? This is a more private conversation.
let's go shopping. You can't depend on public phones in this day and age!
Well, some money. of course, my visa, all my identity cards and some photos.
But don't you want to study music? Shouldn't it be easy?
It’s really terrible!
Thank you, thank you, thanks again.
We should have it put together by the end of next week.
Won't you let me buy a new one tomorrow?
Hi there! My name ’ s Terry Graham. You ’ re new around here, huh?
Is she fine now?
Anne Hathaway is in a new movie called Becoming Jane which is based on a true story about Jane Austen.
Why don't you just stay in bed when you are feeling unfit for exercising?
I see. Including bonus?
I quite agree with you. They are terrible. They are complete waste of time, but my wife disagrees with me.
Good idea. I like hanging out in bars at night.
Yes, sir. Where would you like to go?
Take the card, and fill in your name and library card number.
She's so pretty. I'd like to make friends with her.
I'm so sorry to disturb you so early.
Will it possible for me to rent the apartment on a month-by-month basis?
They are. The only reason they didn't disqualify him until after the race is because the results from the text only came back afterwards.
5,000 yuan a month.
Can we talk about this bonus plan of yours? I ’ Ve got a few problems with it.
I think you deserve a promotion.
Certainly, madam. What kind of coffee do you want to have?
Yes. We need some. How much did you change?
Are you sure you know where this bus goes?
You can't be serious.How dare you not tell me you were going to marry her?
I see. Well, thank you very much for helping me. You have been very helpful.
Why did you say that? It's a good thing for him to live with his son.
Yes, they are. How many would you like and of which color?
That's my only option right now.
Hello, Sir. So, you are back?
I decided that you're right.
How about some chicken, ground beef, and some steak.
She is my dog. I like her very much.
You have read the relevant terms of the contract. Do you have other questions?
Reservation, can I help you?
Yes, I will. Do you need it finished right away?
Oh, that ’ s very kind of you. I am going to the Garden Hotel.
What about other expenses?
Hmm. This system seems to have everything I'm looking for. It's a bit pricey, though. I'll have to think about it. Thanks for your help.
Yeah, It’s gonna take you a while if you go by foot. I ’ d say it's about a 30 - minute uphill walk. You have to be as strong as a lion to make it.
Americans love cars for different reasons, I think.One reason is that we are very individualistic.And cars are a very individual way of getting around.Americans like the freedom of driving around by themselves.They don't want to ride in a train or bus with a group of people.
Do you have any particular type of apartment in mind?
No, they're coming tomorrow morning to turn the gas on. My phone should be working then, too.
From 11:30 to 1 o ’ clock.
I don't think I can afford that.
Could you please cover for me two hours this morning?
Where is our camera? Let's see if we can catch this on film!
Well, I'd rather do it the way we set up.But if you promise to give me your best game, it's ok with me.
how about night vision? Can you use it in the dark?
I'm fine, dad.
Yes, I guess it was a choice of me or the pigeons!
Really? What can I do?
Oh. It’s a nice day indeed
I have a proven track record in resolving problems, multitasking, and dealing with customers, as you can sec in my resume. I think it is enough.
Maybe if I sold my car now, I wouldn't be so tempted to use it.
Did you lend him a lot of money?
Hello, Mr Brown. I'm glad you came in today ; we've just opened a new service that you might be interested in. It's called Bank Securities Link.
It's in the middle of the parking lot.
How long are you going to stay?
You're welcome, honey. I hope we will celebrate our golden wedding anniversary in future.
All is best now, isn ’ t it?
What is your strategy in communicating with colleagues?
I can agree to that. Well, if there's nothing else, I think we've settled everything.
Have you had any head injuries lately?
What time does the recycle truck come by?
Wow! What's that?
You really cared about your friend.
When did it begin to be called Harvard University?
What did you do after you'd played football?
how about at 11:00?
But you two used to do everything together. I thought you really enjoyed each other's company.
Delgado takes the corner. We have a foul! Oh no, Did, the goalkeeper, has fouled the Ecuadorian player! He gets a yellow card and that will be a penalty kick!
I'd be happy to help you. Name it.
Your assistant said that it was time to come in and sign my escrow papers.
Good afternoon. I come here specially to pick up my tickets. I booked it last month.This is my reservation note.
well, let me know when you can get it fixed. I ’ d love to go for a ride in it!
Didn't you feel any jet lag from the change in time zones?
No, but I am starting working out from now on.
Don ’ t tell me what to do! I ’ ll get to it when I get around to it!
Michael Johnson doesn ’ t look graceful, but he sure is powerful.
You know those upstarts. They're all show-offs! I think I'd better have a diet ; otherwise I'd look like a ballon soon.
Well. I shouldn ’ t have any trouble recognizing him. What time does his flight arrive?
Yeah, you ’ re right. We aren ’ t getting any younger and our kids are getting older.
How long would you stay?
Could you have a taxi pick me up and take me to the airport before 1 p. m.?
Oh, just olives please. What music is this?
Cream soup and steak, please.
What's her job?
How about the working hours?
Yes, sure. Which cupboard is it in?
Much to my regret, I'll have to meet my girlfriend at the airport then.
Congratulations on the new house!
We can spend a few minutes looking around the church. Then, we turn right and walk along this path.
I don't know...
The ice is soon be thick for skating. I'm so fine to want a sport
That's amazing. I'd love to try it later. Oh, an on-line virtual supermarket?
No, we just don ’ t usually admit it!
No, they didn't. The chairman said he would send a memo to all managers by the end of this week informing them of the date of the next meeting.
I want to go fishing today, but I have left my rod and fishing line at home.
So I transfer from red to blue, then how long do I ride the blue?
I need some flowers for my wife because it is her birthday.
I don't know what to do about it.
Let's take a coffee break.
What's the secret then?
Well, what did you think about the last candidate? Do you think we should hire her?
That sounds like a great salad.
The acting of the heroine is too artificial.
Yes.Do you like it?
No American Express? Okay, here's my VISA.
I ’ ll be back tomorrow.
Good afternoon, Mr. Black. Haven't seen you for a long time. Can I help you?
Thank you.It was really a challenge to speak before such a large audience, you know.
Which of these is my bill?
Then, I ’ ll see you next week, Ms. O ’ Brian?
Unfortunately, you will not be able to view it today.
That's exactly what I want, thank you.
We export to Eastern Europe and the Far East. The domestic market accounts for about 40 percent of our total sales.
how many subjects do they have to study?
You really shouldn ’ t write it down. You should memorize it. You can change it to a more convenient number if you like.
Okay. Can you give me a reply tomorrow?
Hm.. I think you ' Ve got the flu.
I'm in 507. I have a few problems with my room.
What are the most fundamental concepts underlying the accounting process?
I think It’s important to do now. We can have a birthday party for you when you come out of the hospital.
You didn't watch the end of the auction?
May I turn on the TV then?
How do you spell you first name?
Thank you. I just hope she won't feel pressed.
Be my guest. Live Tech's digital cameras combine point-and-shoot simplicity with the ability to easily turn pictures into great-looking prints. Furthermore, it allows users to transfer pictures to a computer while the camera recharges.
if you have a few minutes, I'd like to talk to you about my future at this company.
I really didn't see it.
I want to know whether you will come to the interview. So have you accepted offers from other companies?
Absolutely not! I refuse to have thirteen people for dinner on Friday!
Sure! And without any conversion process or loss of quality! You quickly find, cut, and record video segments and create slide shows. Some camcorders even offer editing software for adding titles and special effects.
Alright. We can go check at Sears and see if they have them.And what about Dad?
What about this one? It's natural ingredients.
No, I don't.
Here is your laundry ticket, sir.
I didn't realize you felt so strongly about it.
I was in the Law School in Harvard University.
The Spring Festival is drawing close. By then we will have five days off. I am expecting it.
Yes, we are. What position are you looking for?
May I have your passport and form I - 94, please?
Thank you. That's a long way to go for my job.
It is enough for today. Do you have any last question? If not, thank you for taking your time to come to our interview.
Have you made a reservation?
Well, we have some handmade products. Let me show you some.
We should know by next month whom to hire. If your application is successful, we'll notify you by mail.
If you have exactly the same one-same color, same design, and same size, of course.
Not back home for dinner again? That's the third time this week!
Okay. For a party that size, we have a separate banquet room in the back.
Yes, it's $ 167.
I'll look up the rate.To look up doesn't mean to look high into the sky or to look at the roof.It means to search for and find some information.
Do you have to pay utilities on top of your monthly rent?
Well, I have a guest pass. Why don ’ t you come with me tonight?
The pleasure is ours. Can you deliver the goods by March 31?
You have worked in your present company for five years.
The interesting thing is that many of the teachers are not actually trained teachers. They are usually professionals who are taking a break from their jobs to pass on skills to others.
I ’ m sorry that I was absent yesterday.
All right, I can do that, and as soon as we finish this, we can both work on my problem.
Hello! Tomorrow I'm going to need a wake-up call.
I see. So if my little family goes to America, I would end up taking care of my child all the time. My husband would have to make the bread for us. I just don ’ t know how I would get some education and be able to get a job some day.
We have an appointment for this afternoon. Mr.Chen will know why I'm calling.
Hey! What's up?
I ’ Ve had it! I ’ m done working for a company that is taking me nowhere!
On which day?
You don't mind if I have one.
Most models only eat once a day. If they can do it, so can we.
Yes. I received my Bachelor degree in Business Administration.
Yi-jun said Femi was talking about you. So get out there, Tiger!
Why have you been learning Japanese? Why not English?
What time? I ’ d like to go, but my calendar is really full today.
Yes. I've received this Remittance Advice from the bank.
Definitely. There are many wall paintings and inscriptions on the huge rocks on the mountain.
Bring us a bottle of Remy Martini and red wine.
Do you have a credit card with us?
No, I'd rather send it by ordinary mail.
Is Dan in?
Look, before we get into the secret admirer thing, I want to talk to you about WebTracker.
I think £ 5 would be good.
Should I just stand naturally?
I see. Did you have anything specific in mind?
I'm told Cold Blood just finished its last cut.
Sure. Well, the avocado sandwich is delicious, and it's the healthiest thing on the menu. Personally, I think the beef salad is the tastiest choice. I usually get that. Also, the milkshakes are the best milkshakes in town!
It’s that popular?
Well, then, I'll talk to you later. Have a good day!
No, she's at school.
That makes me nervous.
Hello, welcome to Universal Bank. Please insert your card into the slot.
It's on the 7th floor. As you get off the elevator, you'll see it on your left.
Hello, Parker. How's everything?
Rocky six is suppose to come out this Friday.
That's what we like to hear, a profitable business.
Okay. I ’ ll send someone to deliver it for you tomorrow.
I want to buy some jewellery.
They didn ’ t accept me.
It was a nightmare.
What ’ s your flight number?
Ok, I am coming.
I ’ m going there tomorrow.
In my opinion, orange is very nice.
oh, it's terrific. I love the floor. Can you tell me how it was prepared?
That's fine, Sir. Let me just take some details FRCM you and we can help you.
How many subsidiaries do you have?
OK. But you have to promise me that you will study hard in your English class.
How many languages can you speak in addition to your mother tongue?
Brilliant idea! That will make our journey rewarding and much safer.
Yes, I'd appreciate it if you could drive me downtown.
I'm here to help. Tell me your questions and I'll do my best to answer them.
Yeah. We are the VIP customers here. So, what do you want to eat today?
yes, it's not good for me or for the environment.
How much will it be for the pass?
Maybe it's just a blessing in disguise. I've been wanting to try a new place anyway.
But I think some healthy menu options are also served at fast food restaurants..
How much does it cost for a bus pass?
Do you know what the minimum balance is?
I wonder what It’s going to be like tomorrow.
I have been married for three years.
Well, why don't you?
I don't think I say this enough, but I want to thank you for your kind listen patience, you ' Ve always been there for me.
Coke please. Oh, no, a cup of hot chocolate will be fine.
Look, most of the maple leaves have turned red.
Thank you very much. Please fill out this paperwork.
I know, but I think it's not really appropriate for young children.
Yes, with a P.
I usually put them into my bank account. I think that is a little secure, though the interest rate is low now.
It needs to be back on Sunday night. Can you arrange for that?
I know. But we could get some exercise in, and we could get some errands run, too. Window-shopping won ’ t cost you anything.
Excuse me, but could you tell me if this bus goes to the National History Museum?
Here ’ s your hot dog and beer. What happened? Did I miss anything?
Here's a similar aluminum pan. But it has a heat-resistant handle.
This must be his 21st birthday. No doubt about it.
Kentucky's? Is that a chain restaurant?
Yes. I have to call the property management.
Oh, really. That is great news. What does he look like?
No, cats are too dirty. They are lazy and cunning. I don ’ t like them at all.
I'II take them. Please wrap them up tor me and give me the receipt.
No, I have been pretty healthy. I just have trouble taking a really deep breath.
Thank you, but Alice is only a visitor here. I don't know if she'll keep it.
Excuse me. I would like to book a table at 13:00.
You sound like you're afraid.
I'll double check the announcement.
Oh, these are the phone charges and these are for something from the bar.
Is he doing very well at school?
Well, that's not rare. I've seen people reading at others ' newspaper while taking a metro or a bus.
Well, it is like a shop but the things here are quite cheap.
Oh, there ’ s a charge? Why?
Do you have wool socks?
When I finish, what should I do then?
Can you believe this? I locked my keys in the car, and I have to go to the airport to pick up my aunt.
When did you come to Los Angeles?
Yes, right here in my brief case. Just a moment, please.
Do you feed rabbits?
And who do you sell to?
I must apologize. I ’ ll buy you a new one tomorrow.
In your dreams. Now if you don't mind, I've got some work to do.
Yeah. I just can't find it anywhere.
At this time? Why don ’ t you go there tomorrow? It is almost dark.
I find the sheet in my room is so stained.Would you please help us change it for a clean one?
I ’ ll just check. At what time on Friday evening?
That looks good. The room in the picture is bigger than your bedroom, so you wouldn ’ t be able to put all the furniture in your room.
Last year he helped me out of trouble, too.
I hope not.It isn't that busy.
How did you get that? No need to show you my hand, I lose.This is not as much fun as the music concert we just saw.
You mean, kung fu may not be so powerful as it is imagined? To some extent your idea holds water. Kung fu was originally intended for self-defense, but with time it became something more than defense skills. Now we are apt to treat it as an art.
Oh, no!! My son needs a bathroom.
There are twenty rolls in a bowl. You can get another bowl for free if there aren't enough rolls.
So far we could only deduce this way.If you want further information, would you please call us 1 hour later?
Really? Can't you stay a little longer?
Motivate Tony to cooperate by rewarding his good behavior. Do not emphasize punishment for bad moods, etc. Do not threaten him with punishment if he resists the actions you desire.
Here you are. Would you like a cup of tea or coffee?
They say Mr. Sun is a friendly, sensitive, caring and determined person.
My apologies, sir. We'll give you a new room and refund the value of your current room.
this party rocks!
I think you have a very good chance of getting a visa. I can help you prepare for the visa interview if you want.
It was great. I made some friends.
I am sorry. It's a one-price shop.
First of all, you need to sign a Corporate Agreement Savings Contract with us. This means we can go ahead and open an account of agreement savings based on your settlement account.
A bank was robbed this afternoon. A reporter on the scene covered the event, the live coverage reproduce the robbery to the live.
Yesterday morning was beautiful I thought the sunning was going to continue.
Okay, thanks a lot. You did me a great favor just now.
I genuinely appreciate scientists.
Shall we arrange a bail boy to pick up your luggage at nine o ’ clock?
Quite a difference, huh?
Certainly madam. Here ’ s your key. Your room is on the 7th floor and on the left. Room 781. Check out is at 12 noon.
Okay, I ’ ll need the name of the company and their bank routing number as well as their bank ’ s address and phone number.
How about a snack after work?
Perhaps you left that at school.
Hello, Mary, where do you work?
OK. Let me try it.
Have you any tour route to Budapest?
All right. We'll make the shipment as soon as your L / C is on hand.
How would you seat them?
I have a little white cat.
But this place doesn't feel like a forty-ping apartment.
Oh, very easy. They are heart, spade, club and diamond.
Here it is. But, what for? We're already in.
All right, try parking here.
In the evening, we just sit and talk over dinner. But on the weekend, we try to go out to the beach or hit a nice restaurant, or go to a nice cafe.
Have you got anything to declare, madam?
I put all of that information in the packet. I'll give you another copy if you need one. See you on Monday!
Never. But I have been looking forward to it for quite a long time.
Yes, it is Smith.
Was everything satisfactory?
How embarrassing! I don ’ t even recognize a description of my own mother! How important do you think appearance is?
Okay. Here are the photos of the apartments that fit your preferences.
I'm David, Joanna's husband. She has to be at work late today. So she asked me to pick you up here.
I didn ’ t pay attention to that. I will try to get the paper out.
Next Saturday, I'm going to have a party.
Right. And I ’ d like one of those new electric pencil sharpeners.
it's Beethoven. Do you like it?
In fact, our dormitory is much worse than they can be described.
Yes, I'm sure you do. It sounds like an excellent service.
Hello everyone, and welcome to our CPR for beginners course. First of all, does anyone know what CPR stands for?
You do know all the controls in the car, don't you?
Good, you are welcome.
I think the style is a little old-fashioned. It's not what I want.
That's right. How much do you want to pay in?
No, I'm just browsing. Thanks anyway.
Well, you ’ d better get some rest.
The daily rate is $ 22 per mile.
Mary said Jack was cheating on her. Jack was seeing a girl from his hometown. One day, May saw them holding hands and ended the relationship immediately.
Great. I'll bring the food.
Are you? What are you busy with?
I'd love a gin and tonic.
Well, we use the exhaust gases from our printing presses to provide energy to heat our dryers.
Well, I'm here to get some help from you. I was hoping to have someone who we can deal with exclusively. On a long-term basis, if that's possible.
Take care, dear! Be careful! Oh Sara, wait a minute! You forget your raincoat and umbrella.
It doesn't matter, I will take an aisle seat.
Waiter, I ’ m afraid you must have calculated my bill wrong.
By the way, would you like to have dinner with me tomorrow evening? Tomorrow is my birthday.
Yes, quite free until noon.
Yes, me too. But I'm disappointed.
Thank you for your instruction. I really need to know the rules before I play the game, so I can know more about our company.
Here are a variety of red wines for you to choose. You can have a taste then make your decision then. Here is the wine menu.
I ’ m not in there very often. It’s so noisy that I can ’ t work.
Good news for us. When can you start to work?
How nice! But will you have to pay for the training?
Would you please fill in this application form?
I've just heard an announcement that my flight has been delayed.
Well, we have no problems with our credit rating, I can assure you.
Good answer, Miss Zhang-good answer! Seriously, though, are you interested in staying in a staff-level position, or would you hope to move into management someday?
The purpose of the law is to protect and encourage inventions and to promote the development of science and technology. The law came into effect in 1984, and it consists of 8 chapters with 69 articles.
Oh, you mean palm reading. I've seen that before, but I don't believe in it.
I'm highkey obsessed with this athletes.
Yes, I intend to go to university.That ' ll be in September.But it all depends on my A level results.
It is ok with me. So I will be arriving at your office around two fifteen PM.
Thank you for not asking me to collect the roaches in a jar as evidence.
It’s our policy.
Thanks! I will do that! When is your birthday?
OK, Sir. Almost there, I just need your PIN number. When we issue you with a new card and book we would recommend that you change your PIN number. It's a very simple procedure.
Really? It was on in 1994 for the first time. And it is really a classic.
Not even a single drop?
All right, open your eyes. ( Rose opens her eyes. She stretches her arms, and Jack stands behind her, arms around her. )
Sweet.Can you tell me where it is?
I have yet to take my driving test.
What are the disadvantages of on-line shopping?
I couldn't sleep well recently.
It's a pity, but why?
We will give you more than what you hope.
Yes, we should.
Come on! They only do that to get even more publicity for their films and themselves 。
How much is the excess baggage part charge?
No, I haven't. Is the food good there?
I remember a case that was filled with obstacles. The first thing I did was research through documents and past cases that had similar circumstances. I assembled the facts and then tried to put them together and analyze the next step. I was able to get some input from another lawyer I happened to see at lunch. Through some hard work and fact digging, I was able to find a way to overcome most of the obstacles. I took my findings to my boss and made some recommendations, which she and I discussed and eventually resolved.My boss was impressed with the work I had done.
Have you got everything?
It's just around the corner
Looks like you'll have to get a place in the suburbs.
Don't you know that we have a laundry chute in the house?
Would you tell me the essential qualities a secretary should maintain?
He never came.
It makes me sick.
Why are you asking me about my boyfriend?
Good morning. What can I do for you?
A lot of people compare you to Julia Roberts. I wondered if there was anyone that you compare yourself to in Hollywood, that you've watched and thought, ' Well, they've got something I could use a little bit or could learn a little bit about. '
Do you have any questions before you commit yourself to this?
I'm going to throw a party tomorrow night. Would you like to come?
Could you please fill out this form?
I buy a national newspaper sometimes, buy I nearly always buy a local evening newspaper. I find the local news more interesting than national or international news.
Good morning, sir. How may I help you?
Great - they wined and dined us all week.
Yeah, I never thought we could be good friends either. We have our differences. She's more outgoing and active while I am more quiet and reversed, but we still get along extremely well. We can talk for hours about anything.
I'll trust your taste and take one order of that.
I simply can't bear your barbaric behavior.
Show me the black one, my size.
Like you and me!
Okay, Bob, when will I see you?
People now like a small family composed of two parents and one child.
Where do we submit the tender?
I would if I were you.
ok, let ’ s go then!
I thought maybe you were interested in an outing.
I don't like it very much.But every-body likes their own food best.
I'm sorry I've already gone through my paycheck for the week.
You sure are buying a lot of things online.
How do you think the education you've received will contribute to your work in this institution?
Good. I will sit over there and fill out the form. I will give it to you in a few minutes.Oh, by the way, can I apply for any parking lot I want?
I feel like a cup of black tea.
What else is wrong with it?
Did you see his face?
I saw a vacancy board outside for assistant. Has the vacancy been filled?
I see, actually the hardware is the easy part, I do want to study how to use the software.
Too bad. I hate transferring during a flight. It is too complex.
Do you have any plans for tomorrow night?
You are right. It is giving me a real headache. I feel like I ’ m between a rock and a hard place.
Yes. Right now I have a studio.
Those clothes do suit him better.
Nowadays fewer and fewer people go to the movie theaters to see films. So I am afraid that the film studios are really getting hard time to survive.
Bruh, that vegetarians was on point.
No. I'd like tea. Can you put it in my favorite cup? You probably washed it...
It's not as bad as I thought it would be. The freshmen that live nearby are really loud, especially on the weekends. But, the rent is much cheaper than private housing, so it's worth it.
Should I just trim it?
So, you like red apples better?
Yes, of course. There are various forms of travel.
Sorry, could you repeat that please?
All right, now please sign the back of the card.
I don't like it. I am not used to this kind of 9 to 5 work hours. Above all, I hate talking to those poker faces everyday.
What time is your appointment?
Yeah. I need to get some stuff.
Good coming. room service.What can I do for you?
how about individual games like the Rubik's cube or solitaire?
I am afraid I can ’ t this afternoon. I take my daughter to her tennis class at the club on Wednesday afternoons.
I've got a sore throat, a runny nose, and a headache.
Hi Jack, I'm working on these documents. The manager wants them for half an hour.
Do you want an international money order or a banker's draft?
I've heard you're going to America tomorrow. I want to see you off at the airport.
Yes, I see. Thanks a lot.
That ’ s all right. Bring me over what you ’ Ve got.
well, we'll be careful. Thanks for letting me know.
Have you had any medical experience in any hospital before coming here?
Go ahead. It's nothing serious. We are good friends, aren't we?
Not always. But they like a good meal. Lots of tourists go to Rome just for the food, you know.
Well, your job is to compile and analyze financial information to prepare entries to accounts. You ’ re also responsible for preparing profit and loss statements and monthly closing and cost accounting reports.
Hey, I still know my name.
Where do I get the application form for unemployment benefits?
I'd like to book a room for three nights.
It is a six-hour flight with an-hour layover in Los Angles.
that's true. What about Lisa? I bet there's nobody who could do a worse job than her.
Thank you. And goodbye.
Yeah. Sometimes I just cannot accept his behavior.
Well, there are still some consolation prizes. We can go up to the front and pick them up.
I'm almost hungry.
He said I ' d got the flu.
Well, I will do it better.
Thank you, Peter. Come into the dining room. We are going to cut the cake soon.
I need this dress and this suit dry cleaned ASAP!
We ’ re asking for donations today.
How long is that journey?
Unusual pet are often more expensive to keep. Is that a problem?
The right side. ICCC should be on the first floor.
Write down your name and address, give me the key, and I will check it out.
The next one to my destination. I have to be there as soon as possible.
er..., mom, I promise. I won't make a single noise.
Right. You can ’ t blame the tv stations for showing popular kinds of programs. They need to make money from advertisements shown during and between programs.
It certainly is. You can do almost anything with it, anytime, anywhere.
I ’ m depositing a check.
It's very smooth. I'll take it.
Not too bad at all. Do you have a minute?
We offer a 401K with some matching funds available depending on length of service.
Hi, my name is Lean, and I'm from Russia.
Well, not every Chinese can handle spicy food in the way people from Sichuan and Guizhou provinces can. Back where I come from, people don't eat a lot of papers and chilies.
I'm afraid I haven't got one in your size.
So he said he'd sell me one for twenty dollars. A four-hundred-dollar camera for twenty bucks.
You can either get dial-up or DEL.
Well, she did, her baby was 8 pounds 6 ounces.
My mum and my sister do the housework and cooking but I clean my room.
Well, we'll consider your proposal.
When did you bring it to us?
thank you, I'll wait here.
That ’ s better. Now what?
My family setup is a bit different. In New York city, there're only three people, my mother, my stepfather and me. During this summertime, I fly out to California and live with my dad. Dad's getting
The Longing Tea and the Tiger-running Spring water are always considered as the “ Two Wonders in West Lake. ”
Here we are.
Yes, that was surprising. I heard that they got into a fight and then decided not to go.
And I got it on sale.
Only four days.
If you like to help me do the dishes, I'll be more dreadful.
you mean you got working experience, right?
Oh, no. I am quite a stone in the water and cannot swim.
I am very proud of John.
Did you get Bean's ten different good luck forwards, like that one from the Dalai Lama?
What kind of people are you reluctant to work with?
Can you read and write English well?
May I introduce myself?
Let me see. Wanted, manager for up-and-coming firm. Must have good organizational skills. Experience a plus. Please contact Susan Lee. Oh, I don't know...
The weather report says it's going to rain for a whole week.
He ’ s fine. He retired last week. It’s turning going in his life. Now he can relax and enjoy his retirement.
Are you homesick?
Oh yes I am. I have always wanted to go to the States. I love meeting new people and making new friends.
Mario and I are the best students in the class. Miss.Parker says that my pronunciation is very good.
The master suite is the best. Let ’ s go look at that next.
What ’ s the result?
That's true. And this trip has been a very productive one for us.
that's true. I could certainly use the exercise!
Why don't you have any more money?
What else do you have?
Is there something wrong? You look so sad.
What about a Gila monster?
I'll lend you my gloves and earmuffs until you get your own.
That'll be all.
Catch the 261 and get off at Sons.
Yep, my own special blend! You can tell by just smelling them?
I genuinely appreciate musicians.
I came back to my room and found that my suitcase was open and my camera and five hundred dollars in cash inside the wallet were gone.
Really? Why not? Don ’ t you go up and talk to them?
Everything is going great.
Is there a supermarket nearby?
Insurance against old age, medical problems, unemployment will be paid by both the company and you, and the others by the company.
OK, comeback kid. Here's you last question.How many times did Robin Williams win the Oscar for Best Actor?
Are you a freshman in college?
I have a master's degree in HR management in Peking University. And I worked as a HR manager in a European enterprise for many years. I know it is not just some clerical issues, but more social work with reason and patience.
Furnished. Parking included. $ 400.
But it's true. It's a nasty habit. I can't think why I ever started. Anyway, it's obviously got you in its grip!
Have you ever thought of just cutting down? You could do it gradually.
I mentioned to you before that you need to keep up with your rent. This notice to evict is letting you know that I mean business.
What is your greatest accomplishment?
That's okay. A 15 - inch is good enough. All right, I'll take it.
I'm going to order scrambled eggs and toast. What about you?
Sprite with ice, please.
Well, I guess you can say that. The safety of packing is something we always pay a lot of attention to. Especially for those fragile commodities, we've got to be extra careful. Otherwise, if the things we don't want to see happened, we would be responsible and that'll cause you a lot of inconvenience, too.
If you like the place, you can fill out an application form. I'll bring one with me.
You know we went great lengths to promote the sales of your products. Through our continuous effort, consumers tend to accept your product. So, there will be a potential market for your product in this area, and would you let us act as your agent?
I have no idea, she hasn't given out many though.
It will be released next month.
We want to see the Statue of Liberty too.
Getting more experience with a widely-known company like yours. Using my speciality in marketing and management. And getting advancement in salary and position. Show my enterprise, confidence and character in passing.
Thank you. Would you like a window or an aisle seat?
When you get the signed add slip, you must take it to the Admissions and Records Office or you will not be added. Can you find the office?
Yes, I think you'll be very satisfied with that one.
Forty to eighty RIB Yuan a plate.
NO.You don't have to pay duty on personal belongings.
I was scared because... because I saw a bug. That ’ s all.
How's everything, Janice?
Now, Mr. Smith, if all is ready, we'd better start for the hotel.
I think so, too.
What are you listening now, Fred?
Linda, I wanted to tell you how much I enjoyed our time together last Friday night.
This way, please.
No. But I ’ m sure she is a good girl. My sixth sense tells me so.
Well, not everyone wants to drink beer. Make sure there are some soft drinks and juice. Nothing ’ s as refreshing as iced drinks on a hot day.
Come on! What have you got to lose?
Let ’ s go then.
The only thing is that my pen friend will be writing in English.
Look! I bought these shoes only three weeks ago and there is a hole in them already.
I will bring you a larger size.
How do you find it?
Hello, this is Steven from Blue Sky Co. May I speak to Mr. James?
How would you like it?
I wish I could, but I can't.
Yes, I felt exactly the same way as you did just now. Scientists must be crazy in saying so.
I don't know. In Costa Rica, I taught adults.So it was a very different thing. So I really can't compare.
And how old is she?
Have you tried an outlet?
May I see your ID?
I'm afraid not. The church is booked until the year 2001.
How long will I wait for?
Why did Tom quit the job?
I wonder how much of the city is down.
Good. I'll send your catalogues to those who are interested. Meanwhile, may I have an indication of price? Can I have your price-sheet?
Well, why not write about the ancient civilizations of Mexico. You seem to be interested in that part of the world.
Hey, Daniel, what's your favorite weather? Snowy or sunny?
How are you, Mr. Zhang?
Will you forgive me? Could you return my camera?
I absolutely must have this house and will pay three hundred and fifty thousand dollars or more.
It's your blood pressure, I'm afraid. It's far too high.
But nobody uses Macintosh!
No, I don't like black. What have you got in brown?
Hi, can I help you?
Has your company been affected much by government legislation?
Are you enjoying the class so far?
Thanks, you too.
Of course. And 2 - week paid vacation a year, a 5 - day work week.
No, I don't, do you?
I wanna finish my drink first. I'll meet you at Sammy's.
Maybe you're right. They will have to develop alternative transportation.But it will be hard in America. Too many people are used to cars.Even in our movies cars are very important.
It is about 10 minutes walk.
Don't you like to know anything about stocks?
Do you have anything to declare?
yes, table etiquette. There are a multitude of rules that foreigners might never know until they were told. Some practices even appear somewhat awkward or rude to Westerners, while they are the norm i
Where do I sign up for my benefits package?
No, honey, go and read it. You'll learn.
You can't send this document ; it is not clear enough to send. The photograph is all right.
Ok. How about give me a ring, then?
What is your present address?
My native place is Shanghai, which is a very beautiful cosmopolitan city.
No one in the family expected to get a dime from him. It was quite a surprise.
yes. Should we go there by bus so we aren't late?
IBA Bank, Business Banking Department. Ling Ming speaking. How may I help you?
Just one moment, sir. Here you are – 767-4512.
Please fill out this form, and what's in your package?
Do you know what it was according to the lunar calendar?
OK. Nothing serious. He just wants us to be with him.
I love swimming and cycling. On Sunday morning I have swimming practice for an hour. In the afternoon, I just ride my bike around the city or along the country roads for almost two hours.
I know, I know. But it reminds me of the great Christmas we just had. All of us were here - - my parents, your parents, the kids, and the cousins - - the food was good, and everybody got what they wanted.
Ok. Hope it's a pleasant trip.
Sure. What ’ s up?
Hello. My name is John Sandals, and I've got a reservation.
What do you want me to do?
How long will you be there?
A brand new taxi is pulling up now.
Well, all the passengers and crew members landed on their feet finally.
Thanks. Where is our car?
Fine. How long does it take to get to 82nd Street?
I am sorry, sir. We are booked until 9:10.
Oh, I know Tangyuan. It’s a sweet snack, good for dessert.
We have a class outing today.
Air mail, please.
I don't really like sci-fi movies because they're always really weird.
Where are you planning on looking for one?
I ’ m new here and I can ’ t seem to find the lunch room.
Mandarin is the language I spoke since I was a child. So I can speak it very fluently.
Ok. Where do I go then?
that's OK. Is breakfast included?
What about this one? It fits you.
I'm glad you like it.The bell is on the bedside.Just ring if you want anything.The room attendant speaks a little English.So I don't think you'll have any trouble.
That's all right. Maybe we can make another arrangement.
Can you tell me why do you want a visa to America?
I see a problem.
This room 117, and we have just checked in.
Sure. Large or medium?
Can you help me pick out a gift for my niece?
I can deal with that, Sir. Are you interested in our personal or corporate card?
Wow! What happened to you? You look sad.
Oh, it's a disco. Let's dance.
What would you like to eat tonight?
Excuse me! Does this bus go to the railway station?
It's a nice color, and the style is not bad, but a bit too small. I'd like to get a slightly larger one.
Even with volume sales our costs for the Exec User won't go down much.
Okay, I'm sorry. I believe you.
So they kept you at the station?
Oh, and Andy? Do you have a quarter for the phone? My wallet's in the car.
I don ’ t understand. Maybe they feel they are okay and driving fast seems very cool.
It's not that serious.
I'm glad that the little problem didn't ruin your visit. Please have a pleasant trip home.
Hello, Nancy, nice to see you.
I'm afraid no.It is not covered by this insurance.
Really? I wish you could tell me more about your experience.
Count on it. And here ’ s my card. Don ’ t hesitate to call me anytime.
Yes, you play the piano well. You could be a good pianist. That's good.
I'm doing great.
Yes, I did. But I feel tired today.
OK, your name and telephone number please.
The check was written for $ 150.
Oh, that's too bad. Was it stolen?
The government has to face a lot of social problems now.
Coming. What do you want today?
Trust me. She'll keep nagging. She thinks something will go wrong.
Here is your ticket.
Leave a deposit? Isn't leaving the luggage enough of a deposit?
It looks nice. How much is it?
You just can ’ t imagine! I waited for the first bus but it was too full, so I waited for the second, and it was still very crowded. Then I decided not to wait for the next one, and got on the second bus. It was so full that I had to stand on one foot! No kidding!
When did you learn how to do that?
Would you like to go to dinner or something?
I'll ask Mrs. Thou when she's available to show the apartment and let you know. Has your number changed?
No, Mr Edwards, not at all. We are contacting you to let you know that everything has gone smoothly and the amendment has been accepted.
Okay, I'll get Bob to cover you.
There are a few stories about natural disasters. There is a massive forest fire in Australia. It covers several square kilometers of land has destroyed many more square kilometers.
This Bs ' school you're going to is going to make your life easy.
Does it bother you when you eat something really sweet?
Sure, he is a soccer star.
I hope you will find a place. Listen, I'd better go. I am going to be late for class.
You are Miss Liu?
What is your biggest weakness?
So what would your role in the company?
I ’ m from Channel 5 News.
I'm here to see about a Fixed Asset Loan.
Fill in the slip, then take it to the circulation desk. They will get you what you want.
It can ’ t be helped.
sure, I'll just go and get it now. what would you like to eat? Some soup?
Our monthly interest is 1.5 % of the outstanding balance. Would you please fill out this application form?
Talk to him, try to cheer him up when he is down and if that doesn ’ t work, I say get rid of him and get a new one!
I guess you are right. But what shall we do? I don't feel like sitting at home.
What is the movie you saw last night?
What is crackers then?
I'd like to have my hair cut.
It is very nice.
He is out.
I'm not sure. I can't agree, dan.
For a local call, just insert 35 cents in the slot and use it in the same way as your home phone. Inquiries are free from a public phone.
Wow. You must be very excited.
Certainly. Do you have your receipt?
The restaurant across the street hired a new Chinese chef, so I ordered some Chinese food there for this evening.
You're small, but you're not a child.
Click your right key of mouse and choose QQ Zone.
Coffee would be fine.
Do you know any secrets to China's success?
Our standard package includes health insurance, two weeks vacation and a company car.
Certainly, it's a pleasure.
All right. And would you like a salad?
What kind of reading materials do you like best?
Sorry, I didn't think it mattered.
Who was it?
Oh ok then, I ’ ll come and watch you!
I mean, you must register first before you send a card.
Please pay ten yuan for the registration.
Good evening, sir. What can I do for you?
I can tell from the way he spoke to us.
Whatever we do, we should do it above board.
ok, we will. How do you get around in the evenings?
Covering all expenses?
How about tax and service charge?
How long has this been happening?
Can you ship this batch of cotton within five or six weeks?
Let's leave 10 %, so that we at least leave something for the service.
Which service offered by your bank do you use most?
Oh, Joanne, are we making a big mistake? I know our relationship has been on the rocks for sometime but are you sure we can ’ t reconcile and try again? I still love you.
Yes. This is what is called road rage.
Sure, Mr. Anderson, please come along with me.
I will listen and learn more when I start my new job. I plan to become more professional in my field.
Thank you, Bob! This past week has been the beginning of Armageddon for many, a series of unprecedented meteorological events occurred around the world. In Switzerland, a major avalanche was reported in the Alps. Fortunately, no one was injured. Due to to the extreme cold this winter, a blizzard has struck the US Midwest, causing classes in schools and universities to be temporarily canceled. Moving to to Latin American, Ecuador has suffered a six month drought that has not only affected farming, but has also forced the closure of the hydroelectric power plant that provides electricity for the entire country. In Chile, a major earthquake that registered seven point five on the Richter scale struck the southern region. Losses are reported to be in the billions. Authorities have not yet released an official statement.
Pan American Airlines. Flight 282.
Okay, I'll write it down for you.
To make your offer workable, I think you should take another step down as big as the one you've just taken.
Thanks. I appreciate it.
I went to France last summer.
Hello, Marry, this is Lin Wang, calling from network.
Okay by me.
It hasn't been working the past few days.
I would like to use a computer.
I would appreciate it if you would do that for me.
Do I have to talk to the interviewer or just leave my application?
Let me see. Yeah, all right. I ’ ll be over about two.
Excuse me. Could you please tell me how to get to the nearest cinema?
No problem. I'll wait for your call.
Did we get off the bus too early?
Please say goodbye to the rest of the family for me.
Excuse me, Sir, do you know what time it is?
What? Man, you don't know how to write a project report? That's sounds a little bit ridiculous.
You don't look too well. What's going on?
Did you buckle your seatbelt?
Well, to come straight to the point, could you tell us something about your new price?
To call a number on the outside you now just dial the number. For inside calls, punch in the extension number. Has someone given you an extension list?
I ’ d be afraid to jump from that height!
Office software like Windows might be one of the best inventions in this information age. It saves us from so much work and makes the communication even around the world much easier.
I believe we can solve disputes through an amicable negotiation.
Yes, that's a good place to spend a holiday. Last year I went there. It's really.
where do we pay the fare?
That was a great shot! A three pointer, yeah!
Could you pick him out of a line-up?
I think they must have horrible lives. All the paparazzi take photos of them wherever they go and whatever they do. They must get sick of it.
Do you like shopping at flea markets?
What kind of benefits does this job have?
Do you have mixed drinks in this restaurant?
Yes, I can speak Spanish, and I can also speak Chinese.
Yes, I want to have a photo.
I'm pressed for time and I am afraid I need someone to help me.
We are on the high way. I'm the * *.
Wow, you are the expert on it.
Have you maintained full control of your possessions while in the airport?
What do the numbers mean?
Venice. I have great interests in the boats.
Well, Thanksgiving is family event.So on Thanksgiving, family members will get together and enjoy a big Thanksgiving dinner. Kids will have lot of fun.
In that way, I'll be late every day. How about letting him go to school on school bus?
OK, OK, got it. By the way, what about the vacation policy? Anything changed?
How kind of you! Good-bye.
Are you interested in watching it?
Yes, their steaks are enormous. Sometimes I can ’ t finish what I ’ Ve ordered.
Yes. Three, I think. It wont ' be too painful. Alright, we're done. That wasn't so bad, was it?
You never know unless you try.
Well, I can't find the way to the entrance. Would you tell me where the entrance is?
Very few can. That's why these clothes only appear in the museum.
But it hurts too much.
Cash. But first, I need a lid for this pan.
If I get the promotion, I will be a senior engineer instead of an assistant engineer.
That's my boy! Katherine Curtis created this activity in 1920. And in 1984, it was authorized as one activity in Olympic Games.
It lasts for 9 months.
If the checked baggage is over the allowance, we will charge you for the overweight.
Oh, I was just thinking about getting a bite to eat. Have you had lunch yet?
Actually, they not only had 11 nominations, but they won 11 Oscars, too!
Sure, like taste, variety, nutritional value, what I should do is move into an apartment off campus where I can cook for myself.
Big games of course.
No, you aren't. Just go ahead, please.
There was no evidence of who did it.
I trust him.
Where's Mrs. Johnson?
Would you mind taking your feet off the table, Mike?
Eating is important. You are what you eat. It's not only a daily routine.
Come on, daddy. You can see that people only pick the red ones.
20 pounds per day, including breakfast.
You ’ re working there this year?
you're right, that's not bad at all.
Yeah here you go. Actually I also want to return this keyboard.
Sorry, but this is the best price. You can ’ t get it any cheaper than here.
You can get whatever you want at the cafeteria.
how long is it altogether?
Is it easy to get lost?
How much would you like to take out?
I ’ Ve just taken out an insurance policy. Are you insured?
That would take care of it, thank you.
We have some too. Do you have a lot of coal?
I can help you. What location are you looking for?
Do they often take you out?
I took computer science and English courses as my minor subjects.
These three hours chatting with you have been very... interesting. Could you please tell us why we're here?
I am so happy to know that I could make some contribution to our company.
That's not my fault.
Just think, in a few days, I'll be swimming and lying in the sun and just taking it easy.
You were doing great out there!
That's $ 60 in all.
OK, you're through now.
It can be completed in four years normally.
So, where can I start my work?
I see what you mean, but I ’ m still bummed out.
His suggestion is that the work be started at once.
It might be.
I agree, Toni. I think the biggest problem we ’ re facing is how to bring it in under budget.
Could you please pass me the salt?
I don't believe we've met.
Ohhhhh! And I just got all my juices going!
Did it come out?
That's very sensible. It sounds like you have a good head on you shoulders.
Is there a big generation gap between parents and their children in you country?
I'm the Project Manager so I have to make sure our projects run smoothly. I work with three Project Engineers. They take care of after-sales service and look after the maintenance side of the business.
We are going to go through these bit by bit. You will have plenty of time to read the fine print.
Yes. I got the title of Advance Worker in 2006.
What kind of personality do you think you have?
Will you go with us this Sunday?
The flight only takes an hour and a half. It arrives at eight o'clock.
It’s my honor.
I wasn't feeling well.
What ' the matter?
So, where did you grow up?
Yes, I went to the Than He Sports Center for the football match last Sunday.
My mom phoned me this morning, and asked me to go back home to have housework chores.
Yes, my college teacher was an Australian. She was also our adviser on our English language newspaper. I was the editor for two years.
Where would you like him to come?
Sometimes I'm too tired to eat anything at all.
15 dollars.And for a hard one, only 6 dollars.
Is everything ready now?
Well, I, umm, I flushed it...
Well. I really do have to go.
Not yet. Let me see.
How do you spend your leisure time?
I need to increase the amount of my L / C. It's quite a new one ; I opened it 12 days ago.
Hello Bill, what's new?
Where to, madam?
It looks wonderful.
How is your computer skill?
What are you thinking?
Some customers demand that 80 % of the credit amount be paid at sight, and the rest be paid after the machines are proved satisfactory on trial.
Man, this guy was so funny when he was teaching. I like that, don't you?
The fringe benefits in your company are excellent, and it's generous of you to offer five insurances and one fund
We have this item in three price level.
House keeping.May I come in?
It's time for you to wake up.
He came in alone.
I like to live here and enjoy my neighbors ' company. And I don't think I should waste money just because I have much of it.
It is an exhibition of Chinese jades. It is held each year. A nice collection jades of are on display and sold.
Yes. The lights were out all night.
But a quality inspection system does not mean that each unit will always be up to the standard.
Of course there'll be a room for you!
OH, dear. What ’ s your last name, please?
Cats are well know for being more independent than dogs. How old is your cat now? you ’ Ve had her longer than we ’ Ve had our dog.
We have a great variety of Chinese antiques and porcelain. Do you like them?
Can I just do it here?
The material is so abstract that I have trouble understanding it.
Not bad. It seems you are super yogurt lover. You have so many in your cart.
Yes, besides Mao Tai, we have Wu Liang Ye, Fen Jim and so on.
OK, I'll be waiting.
Hi Julie. Yeah. I've been on a diet for a couple of months now.
Don ’ t worry. Sometimes people will give you a discount if you promise to do the cleaning or take care of the children.
I'm totally vibing with this writers.
You certainly made a good impression on me as well.
You look tired. Did you sleep well last night?
Back to live with my parents. That's something else I used to do before we were married. Remember?
How often do you run your anti-virus program?
Is it near here?
Where is Stanley? It was his idea to have the bachelor's party at a ETV, wasn't it?
Excuse me, sir. I've made a tough decision and here is my resignation.
It's on the service counter over there.
I went to Tamshui. You?
That's why I am going to leave.
Not at all. Go right ahead.
What time does the party start?
Sometimes the inner beauty is more beautiful.
I thought it was great. Didn't you like the special effects rooms?
I ’ m going to have to keep your deposit
How would you evaluate the company you are with?
You could get him a tie.
I ’ m afraid you ’ re being too particular about your food.
Thank you, Li Mei. Come into the dining room. I'm going to cut the cake soon.
The second driver was luckier. He had a concussion and needed some stitches for his head wound.
Excuse me, what time is the next train to New York?
We will be going through these papers one by one. I will be explaining them all to you, and you can ask questions as we go.
Hello, Fife Computers. How can I help?
Me, too. I'm always in low spirits when it rains. Are you going out tomorrow?
I'd like to return this radio.
what ’ s wrong with is?
Hello? This is Mike here. May I have a word with Grace?
well, most of them only need a cap and gown for that particular convocation service, but some of the education majors have had them made, because they will be faculty members, and they'll need them f
This one is much better. Can I try on the ring with this necklace?
How fine the needlework is! What's the price?
Same here. I've been looking forward to this.
Sounds good! Let ’ s see, I want.
Poor boys! They work harder at school nowadays, don ’ t they?
Let's see. That would be ¥ 160 a day a mile.
OK, you can take that from my account. I'll fill in the form now.
You want a bet?
It doesn ’ t matter how much.
Actually, I did have a question. We'd like to know what you had in mind for the budget on this project. We are hoping to put together a really competitive bid. But at the same time, we'd like to hit your target price, too.
Do you have a package tour to Paris?
Did you know there was a blackout last night?
I know, I know. But you always bat around without doing things useful.
So what are you interested in?
They're totally unreliable.
I have been feeling sick for three days.
My love will grow, like a river to flow.
Why don ’ t you try looking at the database?
Do you attend school during the day or only at night?
You ’ re right. I would have to travel to the city at least once a week to go shopping and see friends. I would hate living in the country!
Yes, sir.Just a minute, please, I'll check with the kitchen.
First, your overwhelming share in the world market. Second, your superiority in sales and profits in addition to the amount of capital and the number of employees. Third, the diversity in your production line is second to none.
I don't entirely agree with you.
I know, sir. Those aren't telephone company charges. Those are hotel charges.
Good. Anything else? The tie pins? The cuff links?
Well, I've invited them for brunch.
Thanks, Mr Janus. Of course I trust you, but regulations are regulations.
I got major FOMO from missing that this movie.
Well... hum. You are sure you won ’ t lose control of yourself?
He is a professional football player.
Can you change American dollars into French francs?
Hello, is there anything I can do for you?
Welcome. My name is Johnson.
I will. Do you think we can get something really nice and cheap? I mean this is the last day.
How about the rice?
Yes, I think she will.
Can you imagine a boat letting in the river?
Why don ’ t we go the cinema tonight?
And, as well as being a pleasure to work with, you ’ Ve been instrumental in helping us complete many key projects.
Come on in. Make yourself at home.
Do you get along with your roommates?
How much does a student pass cost?
I ’ m sorry, sir. We can ’ t accept reservations for next Friday due to over booking. May I suggest another hotel, sir?
The clients like the Shangri-La Hotel more.
Rather difficult. How about you?
My purposes are two-fold. On the one hand, I've grown bored of commuting on suffocating buses every day and decided to ride to work. On the other hand, bicycling is a sport, and I intend to build up my body through constantly taking a ride over the weekends.
Good. Thank you.sir.
What's the total price for the chicken?
No, It's only about five minutes ' walk.
I don't think there will be. He left through the door, remember?
Yeah, and it's bigger than ours was.
What a surprise! This is the best present I've ever received.
Oh, there isn't such a code called economic law. The Economic Law of China is a general concept for several laws.
It's nice, but it doesn't match the color of our room.
OK, we will send a repairman to your room right now.
Well, not exactly, but I have shown some of my foreign friends around Beijing.
This suit looks nice.Can I try it on?
I quite like this one.How much is it?
I'm almost positive that this is the right one.
I do for shower items like shower gel and shampoo, but I don't for higher-end items.
What ’ s up? You don ’ t look too good.
I ’ m not worried about our country now that It’s in his hands.
Our pie is brought in fresh every day. And I can tell you it's delicious.
You like the food there?
About 70, I think. This newspaper article talks about the problems of an aging population. It’s a problem that will soon affect most of the world.
Please try these on.
Yes. There is a 20 % to 40 % discount. It depends on the season.During the summer the discount is 20 %. During the winter it is 40 %.
Yes.Please give him some water.
They ’ re sales reps. They are very lazy.
Believe it or not, I guess American women like a man in good shape, which Chinese women may not care about so much. That ’ s my honest opinion. I know you have been trying very hard.
I am sorry, sir. All the tables have been booked.
Perfect. Are you prepared to give me all your money?
I am sorry about the quality problem, but I propose we compensate you for 3 % of the total value apart from the inspection fee.
I ’ m sorry. I ’ m not interested in it.
Hi. We'd like to open a Foreign Currency Account, please.
I'm going to go get a pair for myself.
If we want to beat WebTracker, we're going to have to work hand in hand.
I have been attending an evening course in English writing for 2 years and I often read novels, magazines and newspapers in English.
4. By the way, what's your dress code?
Is it formal or informal?
Because he'll tell Mary and that will cause us problems.
Did they mutiny?
I think the best way I can do is to reduce our price by 2 % and I should think we could conclude a deal at $ 98.
Which bank? There are two, the Allied Irish Bank and the Bank of Ireland.
It's not just spreading out to new markets that we have to address. I think we'd better first pay attention to developing our brand in the markets we already have.We ' Ve reached the awareness level, but we haven't established customer loyalty. People know who we are, but they still don't trust in our brand.
That does depend on where you plan to travel. If you are planning to travel to Hong Kong or Macao we can exchange up to 1,000 USD for you. If your destination is elsewhere, we can exchange up to 2,000 USD.
Are you crazy? Tomorrow's Saturday.
Sure. Do you need anything else?
I like that suggestion. Show me one, please.
Again, as you see on your course outline, grading is determined by your performance on a midterm and a final test, periodic quizzes, and classroom participation.
Okay. I guess I could give it a try.
The doctor told me to stay about one month.
The couple with the dogs, think back.
This is my favourite restaurant.
Are you quite sure you can come next Tuesday?
A soda sounds good.
What's the matter with you? You don't look well.
Yes, I'd like to exchange some US dollars into RIB.
I ’ m afraid not. My favorite is boots-running. I don ’ t care about games.
Aright. I'll meet you at the gym at 3:30 then.
Read one of the street signs or something.
it's a PC. doesn't everyone have a PC in this office?
I am happy to be speaking to a presidential candidate.
250 yuan, please!
Oh, hello, Lucy. What's up?
Well, I'll accept the price and place an order for 10,000 pieces.
No, I am not ill.
B :: Thank you.
Fun for you! Do you get to do anything you want?
Excuse me, Richard? Are you busy at the moment?
Okay, I will go and get some popcorn first.
You didn't see the red light?
You have a colorful life.
Sort of. I played golf on my computer!
OK. Please fill out this loan application.
I have never you mention this friend. Are you on very good terms with him or her?
Because I want to tell you about the time that I saw a ghost.
Of course, but I'll have to go now.
I wish I had a talent like that.
there are lots of things, such as postcards, key chains, posters and various arts and crafts.
You are right! But I get up a little late. That gives me no other option but to travel by motorcycle.
so you're a big fan, eh?
thanks ; do you like it?
You've been sneezing a lot lately. Are you sick or something?
Yes, this is a very popular car.
He had moved and held a party on July 1st.
It's homework time now. Go and do your homework and then go to bed.American Idol, There you go.
My present pay is RIB 3, 000 yuan each month.
Hello, Jack. It's Mary. What are you doing in your office?
On all our new cars, the standards include
Good evening, this is housekeeping. May I help you?
Sure, no problem.
OK. By the way, I'd like to tell you that the check-out time is 12
Yes, do you need some help?
I suggest you read English texts aloud every day, and try to speak more. That will be beneficial to cultivate your sense of the language.
No, not that one. But I saw the movie. Could I borrow it when you finished.
Well, I've lost my wallet and my ID card.
Hard to say. Now the score is in our favor.
How do I order the office supplies that I need?
Of course. Do you know which bank it was sent through and the amount and currency?
Great! I like that suggestion, but what if I need to print something there?
Is there anything as good as a hot fudge sundae?
I get it. Thank you.
Well, we have some nice sugar.
That's fine. Then let's sign a contract.
Whenever is suitable for you. I have no plans for that day.
It's very convenient and it has become popular recently.
Can you finish your homework in ten minutes?
Her roommate, Malia, might know what her favorite groups are.
Would you like to go there then?
Thank you.That ' s a good idea.she likes exciting books.Can you suggest another one?
All right. Thank you.
All right, Mr. Crane, when will you be arriving in the city?
OK. I'll get the bellman to taka them up. Which bags are yours?
I can recommend the spare ribs. They are very tasty here.
Copy this report for me.
On the bottom shelf in the cupboard under the sink.
No problem. First of all, we can provide a business licence. Secondly, Enterprise ID Certificates, Forex registration and...
No, I did that a long time ago. It's about telling my son the truth about Santa Claus.
Ok. Have a good stay. Here's your passport and documents back.
Good morning, I made an appointment with Dr. Smith, but I have to change it.
Would you mind telling me the reason?
Well, I think the cable is better.
But there's one thing she's not good at.
I actually work here.
No, not at all, but you must stay in bed for three days and take this medicine.
Sure. Here you are.
Yes, my sister loves his personality.
Yes. I was only entering my PIN. I'm terrible at remembering it, I'm so forgetful, you see.
Indeed. I've decided to go for the Petty Consumer Loan. That is, if my credit rating is satisfactory.
Tu Mao, I'm hungry, let's get something to eat.
They are our products. Please come in and have a look. This is the catalogue for our products.
No, I ’ ll call the attendants at the gate. I will tell them you ’ re on your way.
What counts the most?
OK, let's go.
Actually, no. It should be a suite. I had booked a non-smoking king.
And I'm glad to meet you, too.
Well, what are you going to do now? Have you made any plans?
I am waiting for a fax but just now I found there ’ s something wrong with the fax machine.
I think most languages take a lifetime to learn well.
maybe you should try a cappuccino or a latte ; they taste much better than plain brewed coffee.
Tell me something about the bridal bouquet. Isn't it the custom to throw it?
Say, kid, keep on practicing, you're sure to be a first-class swimmer.
I don't have the slightest idea.
Do you think you can tell me where it is?
I guess it was fate working to bring you together.
That sounds good. Today we work on Legs and forearm.
Yes. Isn't the director of that movie the same guy who directed Shaun of the Dead?
That's true. I guess we ’ ll have to keep looking for a manager then.
Really? I really want to have a try!
You should try it.It ' s a great game. Come on, let me help you. I'm a good player, and a good teacher, too.What do you say?
Oh, tell me about it. Anything interesting?
the second one sounds rather difficult to answer. What did you tell her?
I think I can. I have been learning English for almost 5 years and especially I am fluent at speaking English.Also, I have made some foreigners friends during the experience of learning English.
Make sure to catch it going west.
To get back to campus by 8
It's OK with me, but we don't have any beer and things.
Yes, do you have a wine list?
If you take M / T, it will take a longer time for your brother to receive the money.
Thank you. Jack, it's always a pleasure doing business with you.
OK. Bottoms up.
Anyhow, there would be certain bank charges. We've done business for years and you should have some faith in our credit. It would help me greatly, if you could accept D / A or D / P. It makes no difference to you, but it does to me.
That's a matter over which we could exercise no control, then. I'm afraid I have to insist that you approach the insurance company for settlement, that is, if you have covered this risk in your coverage.
Right, here it is.
I ’ m a doctor.
We've just started a new business at this bank, Bank-Insurance Link.
How do I get to the Olympic Stadium, please?
Yes, we finished the evaluation of it. If the price is acceptable we would like to order now.
I'll look forward to that, I can't stand queuing.
There was no picture taken of your license plate?
I know what you mean. I think Shanghai is getting more and more expensive, don't you?
Then just keep your chin up.
Yes, I do. The magazine arrives by post at the beginning of each month. Do you every buy magazines?
Will you ever get another copy?
So, did I tell you about my New Year ’ s resolution? I ’ Ve decided to go on a diet.
I don't really. I just like wildlife, and you don't get to see too much of it in the city. This place is full of it.
Hi Bob, I won't be in work tomorrow.
That's fantastic.
John is in prison now. He was copped outstealing.
It's fine. I was heading there anyway.
Do you have any money?
I'm OK. I'll be fine. I'v cool. I'm cold. I'm like ice. She won't know what hit her.
Can't you hang out with them, too?
I ’ m afraid not. It has to be a passport or a valid driver ’ s license.
No, I haven't. I've tried hard to remember and I'm quite sure I've memorized the rhythm correctly.
Would you please follow me, please?
No problem. We want a minimum of 1,000 dozen of men's shirts and a minimum of 3,000 dozen of embroidered shirts. Can you guarantee continuous production and adequate supply?
That ’ s another quid.
I bought a sweater from your store a week ago. It says size 12. But actually, it is a size 10. Can I exchange it?
There is my wife who does the accounts and my brother who helps with the sales.
Wow... She sounds like a high maintenance wife.
I'm sorry, but to be frank, considering exploiting the market in your country, we have already supplied you at very low preferential price.
The proposal is being repaired right now and I think it will be ready by tomorrow morning.
This shirt is really nice.
For example, I have mastered Business English very well, and I also know a little Spanish.
Really! Here's my trophy.
As an existing banker, that will speed up the process. You said you had the documents with you?
"Let me tell you the story.In 1892, Patty Smith Hill and Mildred Hill wrote a song called "" Good Morning to you "". But later someone added the words "" Happy Birthday "" to their tune."
I'm very well, thank you.How are you?
Sure they are.
Do you work there? I have an interview today with Dale Mendoza. Do you know her?
that's be great. The more prepared I am, the better.
I haven't seen her yet.
Since you are not the one who caused the accident, your insurance cost should be the same.
Hi! How are things going with you?
He must be an experienced accountant.
I've got it. I think I will wear a white shirt with a tie. Thank you for your suggestions.
Yes. He told me to come by this morning.
Should we start with beer or wine or go straight to the hard liquor?
Yes, we'll be there, come hell or high water!
I'm going to use my ATM card.
It’s my pleasure having you here.
Yes. I am going to show them some slides in the meeting. Can you call Mr. Brown to remind him of the dinner this evening?
It's a beautiful sport, isn't it?
is that so? I'm afraid people here will not take pity on unlucky guys like you. Bargaining has always been an indispensable procedure in business deals. It's the norm of free trade. The seller sets
It really isn't hard, sir. You just have to follow the instructions.
Yes. But the sum is large, it must be provided by a group of banks.
Did she? That's great. However, if we have too many children, that will have a bad effect on the environment.
Yeah, she is some kind of Superwoman, isn't she?
That was a wise decision, if I may say so. Our Personal Internet Banking Service offers online shopping transactions, payment of household bills online, account management...
Oh, sure. I'll be back in a minute.Thank you for waiting. Here it is.Did you enjoy your meal?
Do you want to know something about the American character?
I can see five other guys eying her up.
I'm attending a conference in Sydney this week. Remember?
Shall we drop in somewhere for a couple of drinks?
Whatever you say!
I am looking for a growth opportunity, which I feel is not available at my current employer. In terms of skills, I am Microsoft certified in Windows XP and several other operating systems.
What should a secretary do to prepare for a meeting? Can you tell me a bit more about it?
Hi Colin. How are you feeling today?
I had a wonderful experience with the meal.
You haven't spent much time with Sophia lately. Are you speaking to each other at the moment?
Oh, I see. Maybe we can fit you in at 3.
Not really. Very few people get married beforethe age of 20.
You will be very beautiful on your wedding day.
Well, when were you planning on doing that?
I'm afraid we'll be late for the party.
Does it have questions about foreign language films? There's hardly any American films worth watching.
Let regive you a hand.
This bus goes all the way to Santa Anita mall, right?
Looks good. I'll take it.
What do you think of the coming match?
We're thinking of ordering fifty refrigerators. But, there's one problem.
They're also one of the richest couples. They have so much money and they can buy almost anything they want.
Fine.Thank you so much.
You don ’ t belong here.
Thank you. Could you show us to our table now?
You are so kind. Thanks.
A crazy language? Why do you say that?
Maybe you should think about moving.
Give me some time to think about it.
I know it does. I catch this bus a lot.
Yeah, so maybe it's my diet.
Let me see... it doesn ’ t look like we have any information about your ticket here.
Yes, very. I thought the last speaker was especially good.
Good. I will add this to the contract.
I like seafood on my pizza.
I love apartment hunting. I ’ ll be happy to go with you.
It absolutely was a great meal. We'll have to return here for lunch sometime.
Well, I know psychology 101 is a big class, so there will always be seats in that class. You can also get into Sociology.
Calm down! My little guy! You'll get used to that after you come here several times.
Wow!! And what does your brother do?
It is largest pop square in the world.you see that is monument for the people's hero, and the Chairman Mao memorial hall on the south.there is great hall of the people on the west.there are two museums on the east.
How do you do, Mr. Smith? Let me help you with your luggage.
Take good care of yourself.
Really? In that case, could I have the number of the Service Centre please?
Based on your contribution, I would like to give you a pay raise. Your monthly salary will be increased by 800 Yuan. This increase includes an 80 % married increase based on your achievements and increase responsibilities and then the additional 20 % increase were reflecting the changes in cost of living.
Really? What ’ s the catch?
Thank you, have a seat. We are working on the new project
Good. Let's call it a deal. We will do our best to advance the shipment, but your L / C should be opened early Sep.
May I see a hat, please?
Sure. I've even e-mailed some people who had bought from the person who sold this bag.
I am serious. $ 15,000.
And your passport number?
About six years...
It is! Look there, those are the tracks. And the jumping pit is over there.
That sounds reasonable. I'll be down there immediately.
I am sorry for that. We will improve the dishes next time.
Hi, Dave. You're early.
Well, Lili, we can visit different places in the state in our van 10. We are not going to take a plane or stay at a hotel this time. Trust me, it won ’ t cost much.
what have you got? A cough? A cold?
Let's do it together.
I ’ Ve made a lot of new friends since I started learning English. Maybe you could join a club or take a class to make some new friends.
Yes, I know, but I need the money urgently for a family emergency, you see. I know I should apply in writing if I wish to withdraw, but I'm afraid there just isn't time.
See you later! Drive carefully.
I was able to contact them so, if you ’ ll step into my office, we ’ ll talk.
I feel quite embarrassed for having to request a pay raise so quickly.
it's aubreyinchina@yahoo.com.
Computers are great, aren ’ t they? I should download some programs and learn how to use them.
Great. Good luck.
Turn right at the second traffic light and you will see it on your left.
Yes, I like collecting antiques.
You turned 18 a month before the election.
All right, sir. May I have your driver's license?
It’s the worst thing I ’ Ve ever tried.
Hello, Helen, have you heard the news? There ’ s been a horrible accident.
There were some bad misses in his defence, so he lost it.
What? She was cheating on me with that ugly guy. Oh, no, I feel like such a loser.
Hello, this is the Corporate Department of Lincoln Bank calling. We are calling to let you know that some documents have arrived for you at our bank.
Neither have I.
I can't believe how hot it is.
I'm not at all convinced. Tomorrow is Saturday!
Well, it has nothing to do with virus. The problem is your attachment is a bit larger. It has exceeded the e-mail capacity.
I see. A set for appetizers and another for the main course.
Our employees receive 15 days of paid vacation every year. If you don't use the full 15 days, they carry over to the following year.
Always print clearly, and fill in the bubbles completely.
I am here to sign my escrow papers.
We could start with Hydrochlorothiazide, which is a diuretic.
They're all so thin! Her cheekbones are great.
Is it dry yet?
Kenvir? Hi, it's Alice. I'm very sorry that I have a big favor to ask you again.
So, got any more ideas for the website?
When is it?
Robin, what are you going to do tomorrow?
Well, it depends. You see, there are eight famous Chinese for instance, the Sichuan cuisine, and the Hunan cuisine.
Fine. If you do end up going somewhere, we can just use our pass key.
What a lovely gift. Yes, I can understand why you wouldn't be comfortable keeping something so valuable at home. I think one of our small ones will be perfect. Do you have some ID with you?
Thanks, I like looking at photographs.How nice! Oh, I'm afraid I must be going now. I've got an appointment. Have a good day.
It wasn't too bad. Were you nervous?
I've been so stressed these days.
But you should avoid finger-pointing when you haven ’ t got the real facts.
7:00, sir.
At Longing Street.
All right. Ask me a question now.
If you are free, maybe you can get having for my birthday party, it should be fun.
Not today, thanks. But I'd like to know any of the vegetarian dishes.
Did you like PCC?
Polarizing filter um we should! I ’ m sorry, ma ’ am. It looks like we ’ re sold out.
I'm afraid you can't buy any medicine without a prescription from a doctor.
I'm looking for a pair of white sports shoes to go with my jeans.
Can you eat the nut?
Yeah. It's boring. I'd rather read something more exciting.
Two, I hope and I hope that by telling me about them you are planning on taking me!
No, not really. Why do you ask?
Hey John. I have some great news.
Yes. Quite good. Perhaps you're very interested in the social benefits.
Please come in, Mr.Jackson.
Square... turn right... traffic lights... And then?
Oh, I'm sorry, Nigel. I'm rushing to a meet right now.
Way to go, Mary. A lot has happened during the last few months, hasn't it?
No, I'd rather go out. The Chinese food here is rather different from what I had at home. Maybe we can try some other food today... What about that all-you-can-eat place we passed the other day, the one over in the shopping center?
What ’ s the time? My watch has stopped.
Yeah, I could tell that. That ’ s no problem. I can probably get it re-done by tomorrow. When ’ s our meeting with the boss?
Well, when you tell him, be gentle. It’s hard for kids to find out something like that.
OK, Dad, it happens.
Is there a cheaper bus pass?
Not yet. They were holding two men in Ohio, but they let them go. They weren ’ t the criminals after all.
Yes. We have reservations.
That ’ s really a good phenomenon to see.
You look a bit dull today. What's up?
Madam, patience is a virtue.
I'd like to exchange 3,000.
and she was in a movie once again, right?
Yeah, fortunately it did not cause a disaster.
Good morning. May I help you, sir?
It seems quite normal to me. It is pretty much what I want to do.
What materials do I need to provide?
yes, we do. They're on the wall behind you.
I'm planning to go to graduate school, but I also want to find a job. Otherwise, I'll have nowhere to go if I fail the entrance exam.
The only thing you'll have to pay for is the monthly sticker.
Do you sell conditioner here?
Yes. I have reserved a table for 2 at 7:30. My name is Bob.
What about the one on the Yellow River Road?
Well, every department is different. You wouldn't want your new co-workers to think you're a Grinch, right?
Will you be voting?
We should probably let everyone know ahead of time so they will be prepared.
Well, I ’ Ve got a terrible stomach-ache and I keep needing the toilet.
Then open that window.Yeah, that one.
Is that so? Why not?
My major was accounting.
Can you tell me the postal code for this building?
I'm Mary. I can't find my American literature class.
It looks nice. And it's not expensive.
I see you just graduated from college. What was your GPA?
Any time is all right, except Sunday.
why, Jerry? Your words just came out of the blue.
I want to go traveling.
Excuse me, what material is it?
A post order for four hundred dollars.
yes, he is. I ’ Ve make an appointment for 10 o ’ clock, so I ’ d better move along.
Why don't you come round for a meal one evening next week?
It just depends. If we have important visiting delegations, you have to stay with us. It's not unusual.
Yes, could you please bring us a pitcher of margaritas and four glasses while we are figuring out our dinner order?
Wow, I can't catch my breath. You are running too fast, honey.
How could the news get any worse?
Hard to say.Now the score is in our favor.
Wow, that sounds great.
Madam, is everything set up for your trip?
I'm sorry.It ' s out of season now.
Well, what would you like to talk to me about?
I hope that it is not a formal one when the boss is there.
Be sure to get to the sports hall at nine o'clock on Sunday morning.
I can send somebody right now to fix it.
We prefer they are on same floor because we have a problem check late that night.
I have two classes on here that are at the same time.
Shall we share a taxi?
Of course! Where are the things?
I think I'll sign a nine-month lease in case I decide not to go to summer school. I can extend it if I want to stay, can't I?
How much are you asking for every month?
I havn't seen her for a while.She stopped seeing nick because he was cheating on her.He was seeing a girl form his office.One day, she saw them holding hands and ended the relationship immediately.
What's in it, please?
I want to transfer money from my savings account.
Which way do we go for the northern line?
Yeah, I heard it's going to be a lot of fun.
Stop, stop... We are talking about our son's attendance for classes and his study. Maybe we could give him a little bit money to pay to go to school.
No, I'm fine. I don't need to see a doctor.
Do you know who you got it from?
Sometimes. News happened out of expectation. Sometimes I have to get up in the early morning while I can't sleep for editing and interviewing.
This is Manager Liang's office, what can I do for you?
That sounds really nice. What did you do there?
Fine, then! If that ’ s the way you feel, so be it. But you ’ re losing out on a great opportunity here. I ’ m going to go hit up Mum for the cash.
What a bummer! You set me up?
My father dose not know how to tie a tie, for he often wears a cravat.
Indeed. He's strict with himself, too. We can see every lecture of his is well-prepared.
fine. I'll just get out the casserole dish, the saucepan, the salad bowl, and the baking sheet.
I'd be up for that!
I prefer to read novels with a cup of tea.
Sure! They are very fresh, first of all. We sell at a bargain, and you make a wise purchase if you buy them today. Eighty cents only, a piece.
Well, yes, I am. I'm worried about my work. I've just taken a new job. I earn a lot of money but it's difficult work. I'm always afraid of making a mistake.
Well, the desk by the window is nicer, of course. Don't you think?
That's helpful for your health.
Did you know that he is a fairly new teacher and very current in his field?
Are you serious? Why would they have to go to such extreme measures like a strike? Doesn't your company have a pretty good corporate image? I'll bet the folks at headquarters are going nuts over something as serious as a strike...
Hey! What is it?
I've got film in my bag.
Hey Lydia, what are you reading?
Yes, I know.
Yeah. I hate all this traffic. It's really noisy.
But there are still other big problems we need to solve such as prolonged weightlessness, food storage, and a series of physiological effects.
What do we need? Let ’ s make a list.
Yes, I ’ ll have the Texas chili burger.
Across the street.
May I invite you for a dance?
just stare at the newspaper holding in the hands of the one next to him?
I certainly hope so. Can we arrange to meet on the 27th? That should give you enough time.
It was only 345 pounds.
I know. You have to decide if you want to attend a school in a city or in the country, a big school or a small school, a public or private school...
I know. But this year I want to get him an interesting tie. Like this one.
it's furnished two bedroom flat in a three-story building on campus.
My mother likes to split hairs.
Wish you have a blast.
Yes, what style do you prefer?
Thanks! We love it.
It's the best choice ; plus, it won't tie up your phone line.
Wanna chill out and watch cable?
Yes, they had constant changes of scene, and I love variety.
but it will pose a risk to your health.
Tell me what seems to be the problem.
Oh, God. I just forgot it. I should have brought roses for my girlfriend.
I am wiped out. Thank you.
When will it be working again?
Who is Peckham?
I don't know. Maybe the same. Actually, this is my first time being in a bar.
What do they include?
Have you thought about wearing a hat?
he ’ s fine, but he had a fever last week. He probably just had a cold.
Yes. Especially in autumn, the red leaves of the maple trees make the whole mountain red.
Hello, I want to remit one thousand Yuan to Magnolia Company.
Oh, ah, um the Nikon D60 is a nice option.
Do they have any children?
Excuse me. Will you please keep an eye on my suitcase? I just want to make a phone call.
That's expensive.
Why do you think that this would be a good move?
By the way, do I need a transfer again after No. 50?
Yes. What I ordered is roast beef, not roast beef sandwiches.
Could I just stop you there? Sorry to interrupt, but I have already been to your appointed dealer and selected the car I want.
Would you like to go skiing with us for christmas?
About David, No, I didn ’ t hear anything.
I'm bleeding too much.
They'll be there in about an hour.
I have been working 70 hours this week. I am totally maxed out.
OK, enjoy yourself, sir.
Tom? Oh, it's been a while since we've talked to each other. Nice to hear you again.
Two hours.That area is a little backward.
Yeah, I am very impressed with Tom Hanks ' performance in the movie.
Is the service charged?
Congratulations! How can you get such a good opportunity to be trained overseas?
Could you quote the price of CIF Hamburg?
Sorry, he is out.
Chinese tea is famous all over the world. I want to buy several boxes.
Thank you for hiring me. See you then. Bye.
Very well too, thank you very much.Isn ' t it a lovely day?
The carpet needs to be cleaned, and I want to paint the walls a different color.
Don't worry, I would be able to go along with you, over the next few days, if you have any questions or problems, I will be right here to help you out, I can be a translator and tour guide.
That ’ s great. You ’ re a lifesaver.
A return ticket, please.
Do you want any dissert?
Good idea. Remember to eat healthily too. The trainers at the fitness centre will be able to advise you on your diet.
So what do you want to play then?
Okay, let's both look for it now.
$ 850 a month.
How many children do Cindy and Ron have?
It's more than special. You can find as many kinds of animals as you can put a name to and more.
Hello, this is Catharine from Thomson Company. Can I speak to Mr. Wang?
That sounds great. I'll bring a bottle of wine then.
Are you a newcomer?
Here is $ 200, keep the change, please.
Let's look at them all.Have you got a paper there?
I don't know how to do it.
I hear a noise and feel vibrations when step on the brake.
That's so sweet of you. We definitely want it.
How about climbing up the Fragrant Mountain tomorrow?
Thank you so much. You guys are really responsible.
Maybe you're right. But I just still can't understand...
Yep. That way I can satisfy my craving for spicy food and you can eat hot pot without burning into flames.
Can't you delay your return a little bit?
I booked a room here.
In their mind, love is nothing but passion and marriage is over once the passion is gone.
Of course. I think there are a few in that box.
I am sorry. He's out in a meeting now. Could I ask who is calling?
I know that tea. It smells fragrant.
MI stands for Middle Initial.
Would you like to go with me? I ’ m afraid of the hospital.
I need to buy a bus pass.
Oh, yes. I like playing basketball.
I'm not quite hungry now. Let me think for a while.
I didn ’ t know myself till this morning when my boss suddenly dashed into the office and told me to rush up here to attend the conference.
He's there in the room. He's very ill.
Are you ready to transfer tomorrow?
Thank you. I'll be sure to take a look.
Yeah, sounds like fun. I can wear my new pink bikini.
Mike, I enjoyed your company, but I am getting ready to graduate soon. I really need to focus on my studies.
Do you think you could pick him out of a line-up?
Oh, I don ’ t know where we ’ re going yet.
No. Our check out time is still be eight thirty tomorrow.
How would your coworkers evaluate you?
The task is tough.
OK. What time is it?
That would work out well. Bring any concerns that you might have.
True. But I think it is worth it. When you get old, you want to be healthy and active.
I ’ m going to have to charge you for the damage.
The pipe is in my bathroom.
No wonder you say English is a crazy language.
What is your proposal?
I am from China.
I never got it.
I need ink cartridges, staples, and Post-its.
I couldn't agree more.
Do you have some quarters?
What does ' Duppa del Giono ' mean? I'm sorry I don't know how to pronounce that.
Yes, I'll see that you get those delivery. Shipping by ' S. S. American ' as usual, is that all right?
Why? Do you have to make a choice now?
Now darling, I know that we've bought this house together, but it's just going to be far too expensive to decorate it. I think we should sell it.
Hello, Dana Okro.
Bob, you're so lucky that you've come at the right time-the 2005 International Tourism Festival is around the corner.
Happy birthday, Alice, here is a little something for you.
Then why are so many crazy about it
To show our appreciation for your hard work, we'd like to invite you to have dinner with us.
The project I'm in charged of now will be done by the end of this week. I'd like to take my leave from next Monday on.
You can't come any earlier than that?
All right. The area of the factory buildings is around 8,000 square meters. You can read the details in the invitations which will be sent tomorrow.
Yes, they are different because they are printed by the Ministry of Finance in set amounts. Just 100 RIB, 500 RIB and 1,000 RIB, you cannot choose from many amounts, you see.
Wait a minute. I will get him here. Sorry, he is busy doing something. Why don't you give him a ring later?
What did you say? I think I've gone deaf.
Well, I don't think much about it. To me, it's a sheer waste of time
I have chosen 15 candidates. The first round interview is tomorrow.
Putting on mascara.
You did give me a surprise. How have you been?
She is expecting.
Let me see... What's this, shrimp rolls?
where would you like to be located?
I want to get a snack at the cafeteria.
I hate spending too much time at home. I get bored of it really quickly. I ’ m always excited about going out to party or other social event and meeting people.
What do you like best about it?
is your helmet comfortable?
Daddy, do you think we're gonna catch any fish today? We've been fishing here for more than two hours, and we get nothing.
I'll pick you up.
I am afraid not.
No, the one you have on looks fabulous, especially with your hair like that.
But if you placed a larger order, we would increase the discount to 10 %.
Oh that will be lovely. You ’ ll be able to do lots of shopping I expect.
Excuse me. May I have a bus map, please?
Yes, sir. It'll be a moment.
Well, you don't have to be mean. How do I do it?
Do I have to pay extra money for it?
Please explain because it makes no sense to me. How can a girl ’ s routine be so complicated? You get up, you shower, you get dressed, you brush your teeth, you ’ re out the door. Half an hour, tops.
Honestly, the flexible hours were the main attraction for me. The traditional working day doesn't fit in with me lifestyle ; I love being able to tailor my working hours.
That is fine. I think you have the qualifications needed for the job, so I will let you have the job.Does the work schedule suit you?
Hi. I ’ m here to catch flight 513 to New York.
You can touch them only between the shoulder and the knees.
No, they live alone.
Absolutely. By the way, do you sell any traditional Chinese medicine?
Your garden is looking beautiful this summer. The flowers are really colorful.
I'll have to go now.
Ms.Green, are the schools more or less similar everywhere throughout the United States, or do they differ in various sections?
A single room with a bath and one double room facing the lake.
Watch our computer demonstration, please. You'll be convinced that our product is superior. ( After the demonstration )
It's OK. It seems we have a lot in common.
can't you hang out with them, too?
Anything else I can do for you?
And I also want to know what the status is of the position.
No, but we're trying to contact them.
I find it interesting.
That sure didn't last long!
Hello, 8520388 2.
God, I didn ’ t realize. I didn ’ t, I didn ’ t know...
Well, I was born in Ohio, but I grew up in Texas.
Here in America, it's six.
Sure, but I have to tell you that I've become a vegetarian. I don't eat any kind of meat.
Hey! How was your first day of class? I ’ m in level two and I ’ m loving my class this semester! It’s great being in a class of international students!
That's not very much.
I know what you mean. However, there are so few places left that have not been affected by global warming. If it's not the pollution, then it's the natural disasters, deforestation, or the greenhouse
Well, here you are. Size six. Woman's. 137 dollars.Wow, what a waste of money!
Don't throw paper on the floor, Bill.
I look forward to more of this book.
It's a good thing you can speak English!
Yes, I went to Cambridge. After graduation, I started right away into the advertising industry. Later, I made a bit of a switch to focus on marketing research.
got it. I'll start right now.
In that case, I shall continue to learning a few basic phrases in other languages.
That's really convenient.
You are welcome. Have a good trip!
Yes, it seems to be just in the living room, above the window.
You're welcome. We wish you a speedy recovery.Goodbye.
Well, I think you prepare it well and capture good savings, retiring early can give you a lot more time for travel and other activities, you should get out and enjoy the life you still can't, don't you think?
Yeah, We're buddy-buddy still.
Come on, buddy, cheer up. Why not do some sports with me? Violent exercise might help to shake you out of your disappointment in love.
Not much really. It's more of an American tradition, so back home we don't really celebrate it. In fact, I am not even sure of what exactly is being celebrated!
You got that right... and my mom's still mad about what we did with the dishes.
Hello, may I speak to Mr. Richard?
That's really cheap for shoes like those. OK, I'll take 5 pairs.
Have you seen the news today?
She is really something.
Did you want something to drink?
I have a doctor license and a driving license.
No, thanks. How much in total?
Are things still going badly with your house guest?
I'm sure you have a talent. It's just hidden.
Do you think they two will get married?
Do you have a big yard?
and what is your call regarding?
Sure. Brown and we have reserved a table next to the door.
Nice to meet you, Mr. Wilson.
How long will the trip take?
Maybe it was Dick.
I can speak German quite well, but I can't speak French very well.
I'll beat him.
Sure, sir. But can I suggest a cup of warm water instead, I think it may help settle your stomach down.
Affirmative action has given us management quotas and bans sexual discrimination, but it's still a man's world.
yes, I learned how to speak it when I was little.
Yeah, I really wanted to come, too. But something unexpected in shanghai have come up. I have to fly out for a few days, but I'll be back soon.
What's that supposed to mean — that it's weak?
In a word, gambling is a vice. We should be away from it.
Ok. I won't get into trouble.
We ’ re glad that you ’ re here. Would you like a tour of the house?
I'm so hungry! I haven't late eaten all day!
It's still pretty expensive.
Please fill out this exchange form and I'll need to see your passport. Don't forget to sign your name at the bottom.
No, thanks. I already took some medicine.
Whatever dude, I ’ m going to go watch the opening match.
Disco is my favorite. I like it better than any other dances because it can release one's pent-up feelings, and is a healthy exercise. But I don't do the rock and roll and the break dance.
No problem, I can do that for you right now. Have you checked the documents?
You did? How do you like the fashion show?
Then I will see you in my office at ten Wednesday morning.
Why would you park in the red zone?
That my new phone was lit!
Where can I find a spare hose for the pump?
Have a glass of wine, Mr. Wu? And let me introduce you to some of my guests.
Steven, I am ready for breakfast.
Could you do me a favor and proofread my resume before I send it out to the human resources department?
We rappelled down the side of 300 - foot cliff. It was very exciting.
So, Karen, what do you do in your free time?
I don't know. It's a rental.
you lose face by refusing to drink, and the host might think you refuse to give him face. The right thing to do seems to be drinking yourself into incoherence until you throw up. This will endear you
Well maybe you are right, but how about the story of how KFC has rows of headless chickens which are super grown in order to get bigger chickens faster!
Yes, I've been given so much, that I simply don't know what to do with it all.
Oh, hi again! Hey, the fruit looks different this time.
Oh, no, Nathan, I... I really think we've bought this flat at the right time, you know. Market prices are going to go up, and I think you'll find in a year or two it will be worth a lot more.
That's all thank you.
I used to play football regularly when I was at university. And I used to do athletics in the summer.
By the way, what's the charge for the tailoring?
Wow, what a great burd!
Very impressive. It's made of glass which makes it even brighter.
He treats everyone pretty badly, but the way he treats me really takes the cake!
He measures his worth by how many of his bones he has fractured while executing his film, incredible stunts. By the way, can you count the breaks?
I already had a burger yesterday.
What's the hardware?
The earliest we can do is by the end of June.
Okay. How tiring the job is!
Thanks so much. I owe you one.
About two months.
Did you go to any illegal website?
My hard drive crashed.
Don't worry about the cost. Our insurance policy covers us against situations like this. We need those parts urgently. Could you please try to get them here tomorrow?
Good morning, sir, Can I help you?
Sorry. I didn't mean to be late. Can I come in?
I will sometime. Thanks for the advice.
what do you think about all the different diets people go on?
Hello. Is everything OK? Can I help you?
Would you please make it for a single person?
After I tried French food. Before that, I used to cook really boring things for my family.
What about her facial features?
What do you mean? It's expensive!
Hmm. We don't exactly have the best seats in the house, do we?
Yes, you can add or get rid of channels later on if you would like.
there just isn't enough affordable housing to go around. If only the housing cost would drop, fewer people would be in financial trouble.
Now you're talking. That sounds good. What is it?
They're still fighting hard.Let ' s wait and see.
Hey, Brad. How was your day?
The teacher asked me to make a speech in English class and I wasn't prepared. He punished me by making me stand in front of the whole class. It was so embarrassing.
Excuse me! How can I get to the post office, please?
I think you ’ re right. There needs to be an international response to this problem.
How did you grow such long nails?
I understand. May I make an appointment then?
My roommate's having a party.
I think most people treat animals well, but we are often cruel to animals. When we raise animals for food, the conditions they live in are often poor.
Yes, I noticed it yet.
Excuse me, you look lost.Can I help you?
The washing machine isn't working again.
What will you do when you come home?
Oh. In that case, I'll pay cash.
Keep walking and look for a tall building.
Ok. My next problem is to convert 10000 british pounds into us dollars. What ’ s the exchange rate at the moment?
Look on the bright side. At least you have a job.
Of course. When would you like the call?
My surname is Gao.
Hello, I need a new suit. I have an important interview next week, so I really need to look sharp.
let ’ s get back to you. How was your day?
Great. It was a pleasure doing business with you.
Really? I got mine from her this morning.
It is a new film, ' Transformer '.
Let me examine you.Don ' t worry.It ' s nothing serious.
you have to be very careful with seafood. It tastes lovely, but it often causes upset stomachs. Have you heard anything from tom?
that's ok. I'll wait until you're finished. Just out of curiosity, do you have a subscription for that magadize?
I didn't think of that.
Mary, I heard you moved again.
cool! It must be amazing to work at a bar!
Is Tom in?
I don't like to.
I keep on meeting with difficulties in the experiment. I can hardly go on.
What ’ s going on?
Yes, I have, and three times in total.
you're welcome.
Let me know if I can help.
Did you call for a car service
Oh, I ’ m sorry.
How about two inches?
Right, then you'd better send an E-mail to tell her.
It all depends. If it's rock music I'll do disco, and if it's romantic music I'll do ballet.
But I see things rather differently.The heroin is not attractive and her acting is just so-so.
Nothing. I just feel very lonely in this city. I miss my family.
If you know somebody at the company, ask them. If not, dark color will be fine.
Attention all staff... Effective immediately, all office communications are restricted to email correspondence and official memos.The use of Instant Message programs by employees during working hours is strictly prohibited.
Her parents scolded her severely and she's very depressed now.
Get some snack foods.
I'm going to graduate this summer.
That ’ s right.
Jenny, what's wrong with you? Why do you keep weeping like that?
Why not go and find a porter?
which one has the most interesting course?
That'll be fine. Thanks.
It's loaded! For example, it's got a 256 color, LCD screen that rotates 360 degrees, and switches to black and white in power save mode. Also, it has a low-light mode for night shooting and touch screen menu controls that are really convenient.
Ok. I ’ Ve finished online. Let ’ s go. I ’ ll just get some money and my credit card.
Where can we go to get both?
Should I bring anything with me?
Could you deposit that into my checking account, please?
Can we see the menu please.
Thank you for joining us! Now let's see some pictures and know more about kung fu.
Can you tell me where I can park?
May I take yor order now?
But what do you think about people who are obese? What should they do to lose weight?
That's not why. This way I can see how you guys do this sort of thing.
I agree entirely. I assure you it won't happen again.
That sucks so much. What are we going to do?
Last time I tried a pink curl perm and form permanent. Set the wave a little loose than as usual, please.
I was robbed.
Pity we didn't catch it.
Glad to meet you, Ms.Baker.
You must have enjoyed yourself.
Ok, let's do that, even though we may have to take a longer way.
I can't go to your party.
I guess so. I don ’ t have any other questions. Should I sign here then?
Yes, maybe the personnel department made some mistakes in making the agreement. Do you have any other questions?
Sometimes I envy you a lot. Tom is a good guy.
Carson. It's nice to mee you, too.
How's Mrs Zu doing these days?
A thousand dollars.
And you'll have to sell your motorcycle. And your cameras. Right?
Do you accept checks?
Mrs. Phoebe, let's talk about the delivery arrangement for our goods.
I understand completely. There are other options, such as a Personal Pledge Loan.
It's kind of you to meet me at the airport.
Sure, anything you say.
I'm from Guangdong.
But it's Sunday, isn't it?
No. We broke up last month. I ’ m taking a break from dating for a while.
Is this the only kind you have?
Last weekend, while they were on the Sik trip.
What's special about Melbourne Zoo?
Let me see... We can see you this afternoon if you can come in at four thirty.
Yeah, well, times change. Look at you-you're a father now. You can't say that you haven't changed.
I'd like to go to Tianjin.
Well, I have been thinking about it.And I believe we could do things more efficiently here.
Well, then. Let me put on my thinking cap for a moment.
How much do I need to pay for it?
Please come to the front to have five minutes ’ free talk in English. Very well! Whose turn is it to have a free talk?
Things couldn't be better.Where are you going now?
May I be of any help?
Is there a bus in Altadena that'll take me to downtown LA?
Perhaps you could look again, sir, to double-check.
All right.Here ' s the money. I suppose I'll have to drive you there.
In comparison to city life, the country life is quiet and peaceful.
Mike, you're seventeen years old, right?
Mom. My legs are killing me.
I had a wonderful time.
Yes, I just had my 18th birthday this year.
you'll just need roughly $ 10 for food and gas money. My friend is driving, so we usually all chip in a few dollars for gas money.
OK, I just want to brief you all on the travel market in Taiwan. To start with, generally speaking, the travel industry in Taiwan focuses mainly on tours. This segment of the industry is well developed.
Yes, we have a showroom not far away from here, Mr. Black. Are you free now?
What happened? You look so pale.
Why would that be funny?
I've booked an air ticket to Venice.
Yes. It's a bit tight. Have you got a bigger one?
It does ’ t matter. I know that people are easy to get mad when they're tired.
I ’ Ve got to think it over some more.
Oh, I must have been sitting in the same position too long. My legs have fallen asleep.
Let me see. A roasted duck is 15 dollars. A plate of pork is 10 dollars. A bowl of beef is 6 dollars. Two bottles of beer are 3 dollars.That ' ll be a total of 34 dollars.
She asked me about my ability to work in a team and what I thought a good boss should be.
Yes, please. And I'll need an economy class open return.
Let's program your courses, since you have had English literature, you should take American literature and American prose and fiction.You transcript indicate that your english background is strong, so I don't think you have any problem with it.
I inform you of the problems. If there are major problems, you can decline to buy the house or they may wish to fix any problems.
Surely you'll be paid extra for overtime, but do you think it's really worth?
Are you broke again? Let me treat you.
What films feature him?
All right. Please read it to me.
On Saturday we all go to the park and the dog comes with us.
Is everything ready for Billy ’ s birthday party?
It really depends on when and how long.
Great. I would be happy to try it. I know my hair doesn't look good now. It's too weak.
I ’ d be glad to.
It's only about 10 minutes ' walk.
That blood that just filled the tube is all that I needed. Thanks for coming in!
It will cost you around five hundred to one thousand dollars for a home inspection.
I am just getting behind this screen. You need to take a deep breath, hold it, and then breathe normally.
I think all you need is just a vacation.
Yes, that would be great. How much is the room?
I wonder how Sarah and Mat are.
I just started, but the job market is very bad right now. I'm not optimistic about it.
Because it is an age of challenges, I must accept the new challenge in my life.
There is a beautiful state park here. I can see why so many people come out here to camp.
You are right.The view is spectacular.But that bedroom is so small.We ' d never be able to fit all of our stuff in there.
Is it enough to claim with an on board bill of lading?
Buying a bus pass will save you money.
That's not a problem, I'm more than happy to explain everything in laymen's terms. PIN stands for Personal Internet Banking. You can do all of your usual banking using the Internet, no need to call
Hey! We're paying for his ticket!
Really? I think that's impossible!
What are the best places to visit here please?
Excuse me.Does this train go to Brooklyn?
Should we ask Jason to play? He's always watching movies on HBO.
Which movie is your favorite to watch?
Oh, there comes the bus.
Oh, it's ten o'clock. I'd better go now.
Do you have a fever?
Well, I don't have any cash with me, I'll have to put it on a credit.
I have asked for a talk again, but she refused and said she wanted to be quiet.
She got a master degree, and now she is going for her doctor.
How did your vacation go?
What else should I be thinking about?
Yes. And it was incorporated with other businesses in 2008 due to the global financial crisis.
Would you tell me how I should send this parcel to Shanghai, China? It contains only books.
Personally. I think that people believe they will be healed and that faith causes a change in their mind that cures them. I don ’ t think place is magical in any way.
Before your main course, would you like to order an appetizer?
Not good. My cousin is driving me up the wall.
You got promoted?
I'm not sure about how to operate the washer and dryer.
I'm in the car business.
Because I was under a terrible strain. The doctor saidthey weren't very strong. Anyway, I used to feel awful the next morning.
Anything for dessert?
It will take about 20 minutes, sir. Is that all right?
Your room number is 707. Here is your key. The bellhop will help you carry the suitcases to your room. Have a nice evening!
All right. Good-bye.
What kind of apartment is it?
Mike, shall we book two tickets online?
Got it, sir. Where would you like the taxi to take you?
What do you have to do to grease the palm of him?
Thank you. Right, your room number is 105. Here's your key and receipt. Thank you for choosing our hotel again, sir.
Couple of minutes.
Hi, this is Sharon in Mr. Reynolds ’ s office. One of your delivery men picked up a package here about an hour ago.
Can your dog do any tricks?
All right.Thank you.
Hello, this is Mark speaking.
Excuse me. Is there any body here?
I am going to the gym. Do you want to come with me?
Oh, I see, sir. We have the airline office inside the hotel. They have an English-speaking staff. Just dial 35, please.
Yes, that would be nice, would I have a tour guide to tour completely visit these places?
I think you are as well - informed as I am about the market for chemical fertilizers. It’s unnecessary for me to point out that sup - ply exceeds demand at present and that this situation is apt to continue for a long time yet. May I suggest that you call your home office and see what they have to say?
OK. Well, after you get the line to change you have an outside line. Who are you trying to call?
Oh, there Isn't? Oh, no.
OK, I will arrange it for you.
I'd be happy to do something new.
We ’ ll have this finished in no time with two if us working on it.
Hey, look over there. It seems that there is something interesting going on. Let's go and have a look.
Are you helping him all afternoon?
All information is filled in and now I can design my zone.
I joined the Samsung Health Club last month.
Are there any other clauses in marine policies?
Sir, we run a spotless and cockroach-less hotel.
You like horror movies? I don't like them because they're too scary! I like comedies because I love to laugh.
I ’ m hoping you can sort a few things out for me. Could you pull up my account?
Oh, right. You ’ re busy with that contract. Maybe you could join us later?
I have no idea what the entertainment should be.
Maybe I will be around later.
Have you washed any clothes yet?
Tie it in with the pay-per-view services, and perhaps it could be a money-maker.
How long will it take?
Then one to New York at ten thirty.
Let me take a look at this bag. Can you open it?
Follow me. Make sure not to interrupt them.
One that I recommend is that you lie on your back. You should have a weight in each hand and stretch your arms out side of your body.
are we going to see them in June or are they coming to see us?
Let me see. That ’ s no problem. I ’ ll see you then.
In 1986, a New Zealander Hackett popularized Bungee as a commercialized sport of mass entertainment. This sport is very challenging. It is a test of people's psychological ability of endurance. Especially when descending, as if they are watching a fast forward tape and when they bounce back, they sway around. The timid people will shrink back at the sight of it. Even if they jump off, they find it hard to avoid screaming with closed eyes. No wonder people give the title ' brave ' to anyone who jumps off.
I forgot to bring that with me.
Because if the seller has a realtor, their price will be higher.He will have to pay a commission to the realtor.
I would like the student pass.
Oh, that ’ s too bad. Why don ’ t you take some aspirin?
Yes, he was every excited to see the blue sea and picked up many seashells to give as gift for his classmates in kindergarten.
Think a little. I think he means well at the bottom of his heart.
I'd like to have it in big waves.
My name is Steven Smith and I'm calling to cancel my plane ticket.
Let's go under the tree.
My mom says it has a lot of fat. I also suggest you do not eat so many fried things.
Well, we can help him keep in touch with his old friends.
Yes, he does but when he was driving up here last night he had an accident and was taken to hospital. So I am doing it instead. Mary, Must you go out tonight? Couldn ’ t you get out of it?
Really? I thought that they'd been killing us by now.
I ’ m terribly sorry, Won ’ t you let me pay for?
After you try it once this way, I don't think you'll ever put off studying till the end again.
I ’ m having the same problem. I want to get something really special. Jim always seem to know exactly what to get people as gifts.
But, if we all pushed our way in, nobody could get off, and nobody could get in either.
OK. I'll see if I can get waited on.
Isn't it silly to see a movie that you know nothing about?
Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your call.
Excuse me, bags aren't permitted inside the supermarket.
Well, why don ’ t you use a local SIM card?
Sounds like she has pretty pricy tastes.
I'm highkey obsessed with this the workshop.
No thanks. Western women usually try to make their skin darker, not lighter.
I suggest that we go and ask for help from the policeman.
Well, you're working very hard but not efficiently. And you don't work well with other employees.
Really? That's great to know.
There are thousands of hot springs and fountains. The park is known for them.
Excuse me, where are the canned goods?
You'll need to deposit 1,500 RIB initially. There will also be some small additional charges for this service.
Fine. I know about that scholarship.You have to be a student in your junior year, and you have to have a grade point average of 3.7 or higher.
buying a house can be expensive, but there are ways to find cheaper houses.
I try to keep it to myself. But there is a lot of gossip about us.
Do you want to buy a sweater?
No. Not necessarily in town. But in southern Wisconsin somewhere. A tornado has been spotted. They have two stages here.This is what is called a tornado watch. That means that the weather conditions are perfect for a tornado.
That's right. She is pretty, but she wants to control everything in his life.
You see, because we are often busy working, we eat too much fast food, and that food is very fattening.
Hi, Daddy. It’s me, Troy.
He took my phone and my wallet.
I don't know, sir. What's the number of your car?
Why are you trying to rush me off the phone?
Of course, this is my first time here. My Mom has a membership here. Here is the card.
Excuse me. This chicken doesn't taste right to me.
Yes. My name is Lin Tao, the director of Guangzhou Computer Corporation.
When will my passport be ready?
Will I still have to pay for the cable while it's not working?
Let me give you some brochures to look over.
From Canada? Where were you born?
That was easy!
The supreme goal of ours is to be in the leadership in marketing.
let's get started with this game then.
So when did this happen?
No, but I'll make sure someone helps me out this week with my missed work.
Alright, alright. I am happy to try more Chinese food.Will it be dim sum again?
I'd like to send it by regular mail.
What type do you have in your mind?
Good afternoon. I need some stamps and envelopes.
Do you feel all right? You look Pale.
How about going for a walk instead of sitting on the sofa reading the newspaper after dinner every night?
Well, we are finishing the shortlist interviews tomorrow, so we will certainly have a decision made by early next week. Miss Childs will call you to discuss more on Monday or Tuesday. How does that so
There ’ s a possibility. I ’ ll check it.
I think I'm going to decline. I just prefer to do my own thing.
Oh, It’s not you. I just want my own place.
You can't help learning when you're using it all day.You ' ll see. A few weeks ' study in the school will have a similar effect on you.
I am sorry. We are full up for tomorrow.
If you have any question, you can ask me.
Tomorrow is my wife's birthday.
I would like my margarita with no salt, thank you.
We could take a cut on the price if your order is a large one, but a 20 % reduction is really more than we can do. What quantity are you going to order from us then?
How about going to the theatre?
The other class is on Monday and Wednesday from 10 am - 12.
This is going to be my first time voting.
I will take your advice.
( When they are dancing ) You dance gracefully!
I want to check in.
Thank you for your compliments. It's just you are a good leader. Do you like the foxtrot and tango?
Let me see. Uh-huh... no, I guess I'll be free.
All right. Here you are.
Yes, it would be.
No, You can cut quite a bit off. I like it to be very short all over. Do you see what I mean?
Why don't you have any money for another bus?
Sure, we wouldn't miss it for anything. After that, we took a short cut to the park. There was very little traffic, so we got there in less than an hour.
Here we are. I hope you will like it.
Really! You live in Taiwan!
I won't be too long, I suppose. Just let me ring them, will you?
The reason for my application for this position is simple. My educational background and professional experience make me qualified for the job.
Oh, you know something. He is 2.26 meters tall. But he is also nimble and skillful.
Just imagine, if a horse can fly, if a bird can swim... and things like that.
It's July 5th.
Well, you should have thought.
Yes. I'd like to choose a sweater for my son.
Don ’ t you think people get their personalities from their parents?
When can I do that?
I'm sorry to hear that. Please tell me the exact problem.
I am not married yet and I live alone now.
remember, no honking this time. The horn is only for emergencies!
Here is the cash.Can you look after my baggage for a while?
Good, if you agree we'll draft the agreement right away and sign it then.
Morning. Can I help you?
I may take you there some day.
These roses should make your wife very happy.
I need a hat. Would you show me some?
I absolutely love what you're wearing today.
Sounds good. What about shampoo? I would like to buy the product that prevents scurf.
What's your strong points?
Yes. First I'll have tomato juice.
I've been looking for a swimming pool, but I haven't found one yet.
How are Zina's new programmers working out?
You got me on that one.
I didn ’ t just find out about one job. There were several ones that looked good.
Thank you for your compliments.It ' s just that you are a good leader. Do you like the fox-trot and tango?
Miss, I'm very sorry for the delay, please enjoy this. Free a glass of wine for inconvenience. Again I'm terribly sorry to make you wait so long.
I don't know. Something rotten here?
I ’ m sorry. But I don ’ t meant to get your goat.
Good. Let's call it a deal. And we'll do our best to advance the shipment, but your letter of credit should be opened early September.
David, imagine meeting you here!
Would you please write your name on this list?
And please let white color dominate.
I graduated from Hebes University.
Perfect. But what I ’ m concerned about most is the time of delivery 。
Nope, sorry! Actually, Robin Williams has never won an Oscar for Best Actor--only for Best Supporting Actor!
Well, that's a miracle that no one was killed.
Yes, they do. Do you have a Christmas tree this year?
Are you sure we got on the right bus?
Would you please tell me what places are worth visiting?
Excuse me. Have you got any books on genetic engineering? I've looked for them everywhere, but I can't find any.
What is it? What happened?
How delicious! Tender and crisp!
Really? Are you OK?
You have a pet lizard? Somehow I never would have imagined that.
Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law.
Now we have to make a choice about what we will see and what we won't.
Yours is a modern family. I'm sure your dad loves you and would want you to stay for the summer. You just need to try your best to get along with your new stepmother and her boys.
You don't know?
You mean that is my business.
I am interested in your flying pigeon bicycles. I think some of these items will find a ready market in Canada. But what our customers appreciate most is a reliable product.
relationships can be confusing sometimes.
Well, will you offer me any reduction since it's a out-of-season tour?
Well, seeing as the officer that pulled you over isn't here, I'll let you go.
It was not just that. I didn ’ t like them because they never fitted me.
No, we didn't. Last week we went to see that movie about a man's struggle against mental illness.
No. Can I rent clubs?
Well, I know you are interested in architecture, so you should't miss the Temple of Heaven, and the Great wall is a must too.
Thanks. That ’ s terrific!
OK. Wait for a moment, please.
Great. What do you think of it?
How about making a teriyaki bowl?
Yes. You should take your glass, paper, plastic, cardboard, and tin cans to a recycling center.
Mmm... it is delicious.
Of course I remember, actually, I am very surprised you remembered, I thought for sure you would forget.
That means that I can't use my phone and the internet at the same time, right?
Excuse me, sir? I just need a little bit more information. Could you tell me your telephone number and mailing address?
Very well then.
I think so. Maybe he's fallen for her.
Maybe you'll have to cancel it or postpone it. If you go out while you are sick, it won't help you recover. You may even pass your disease on to others.
I don't always have time to make breakfast.
That's serious.
Yes, yes, I am sorry I won't keep you. It must get on your nerves when customers come in right at closing time. But they were such beautiful saucepans. I ’ d have bought them if I had made up my mind on the spot.
I went bungee jumping yesterday.
I really enjoyed tonight's party. Thank you, Sarah.
are you also going to Beijing?
Your job includes paper filing a lot. Anc you will have to check and fill the stationer cabinet regularly. Besides, you have to reserve the meeting room in advance if the are any important visitors.
In Seoul. But the company has operations in over fifty countries and thirty factories all over the world.
If the weatherman's predictions are accurate, it should rain tomorrow.
What are the requirements to apply for the position?
I am afraid we can not do that. Would you be willing to sign an annual contract on the basis we discussed?
Do you remember John from head office?
Let me weight it first. That'll be 14 dollars.
Then, how much do you wish to be paid each month?
I'm on the corner of the Fifth and Mane.
How much is the rent?
Do you want to know where I got mine from?
Well, that is also very efficient, right?
All right. Animals, especially Chinese zodiac, are the most common theme in paper-cuts. But there are other themes.
Excuse me, sir. Is there anything I can do for you?
Because I don ’ t think my husband would like it. Thank you for inviting me anyway.
Now, sign your name on the back of the card.
Sure. But it will be a long hike 30 miles in three days. Have you been hiking before?
I ’ Ve got this really neat idea, you can hire a car and drive straight there.
It's business, Dave.
Take some pictures of the thing you want to sell, then upload it onto line with a brief description about it and leave your connecting number. Then your stuff will be sold by auction.
Who is that guy?
Hmm... okay, here ’ s the thing. I ’ Ve always seen you as more than just a friend, and I can ’ t take it any more. I know you better than anyone, I know the pros and cons of your personality, I even know what side of the bed is yours! I think we would be great together, don ’ t you?
Unfortunately, yes. It will be clear early Saturday morning but there is a high chance of showers and thunderstorms later in the day. There is a severe thunderstorm warning for some parts of the Sout
It sure will.
It's correct. Is there any way I can change it back before I leave the country?
You know, on weekends when we wanted to have late rise in the morning, our neighbour started to raise Cain.
I'm really in a flap about the interview.
No problem. Here's my VISA.
sure, they can eat some chocolate. As long as they are exercising and eating mostly healthy foods, there's nothing wrong with having a small desert.
The cancer ward! ? Oh, my. It's worse than we thought.
I don't know. My wife used to speak French. I must tell her to brush it up.
Nice to meet you Mr.Li. We have learned about that you specialize in the export business of electronic products. As you enjoy the highest reputation in the commercial circle, we'd be please to enter into business relations with your firm.
Jason. There ’ s a snag in the plans for the Hoover Center.
Johnson? I can't place them.
what about the chicken?
In China, it is impolite to look into the senior speakers eyes while speaking. But in Western countries it is the opposite. Eye contact gives a strong feeling of sincerity. Looking downwards or sideways shows that you are either insincere or absent-minded.
No. Thank you for the time.
I ’ m sorry, Janice. But we ’ Ve been waiting on the client. It’s out of our hands at the moment.
Yes, I've got some coins. How much is the fare?
So it is, I've come again to renew our sole agency agreement for another 2 years.
Oh. But can I have my card back now?
We have a full range of products from cosmetics to skin cleansers.
Who's that old lady trimming the trees?
Your license plate was caught on camera?
That ’ ll be most helpful.
Yes, I'm afraid I bought the last ticket, and to think, if you hadn't been such a gentleman...
Why don't they drive? Isn't a car more convenient than the subway?
Good morning. Miss Lee. My name is Alex Jones. I'm the new assistant in the office.
We have the offer ready for you. Let me see... here it is. 100 cases Houston Bristles, 57 mm, at 10 pounds sterling per kilogram, C. I. F European Main Ports, for shipment in June 2001. The offer is valid for five days.
I can't remember that clearly. It probably be Charles...
Is there a telephone number where you can be reached?
You are lucky, sir. We are about to set out. It's a tour to the White House.
It must be a haunted house. Are you frightened?
What! That wasn't a foul! C ’ mon, ref!
Don't worry, it's not serious. You will get better soon.
What kind of games do you like?
If you can go a little lower, I'd be able to give you an order on the spot.
Interpersonal and technical skills.
Let's buy some flowers, and pay her a visit
I ’ ll remember to bring gum with me.
I'm very busy these days. It seems I can never finish my work.
It’s so cool!
I'm the manager. How can I help you?
Might I ask if you have tried to give up smoking?
This isn ’ t the first time you have been considerably late with the rent. I need to start the procedure to evict you.
S :: Welcome to Flash Foto.What can I do for you, ma ’ am?
No, I have never vacationed anywhere exotic. But even if I don't get a chance to travel on my personal time, at least I can travel on company time!
Yeah. I could not stand living here. There is always much noise in the neighborhood.
let me see... yes, one window seat and one aisle seat.
That really does not work for me.
I ’ m hungry, let ’ s go grab a bite to eat.
Good morning, Emma! A lovely day, isn't it?
Good morning, how have you been doing?
Yes, I guess basic speaking in the English is easier.
What do you think of this industry's outlook in five years?
I ’ ll do that soon.
No. I ’ Ve never made a transfer before.
I would like to know if there would be any opportunity to work abroad in the future?
I met a girl in elevator this morning. She works in a company upstairs. She said she envied the casual way we dress for work. She complained about the dress rule in her company. It requires everyone to wear formal clothes from Monday to Friday.
Interesting. Then what does H & K refer to? The city of Hong Kong?
Why would the person who told have problems with the law?
Do you have any other computer qualifications?
Today's children have not the chance to play, to make fun of them.
We are going to the national park.
I would think this was the least they could do.
Is it urgent? Our ambulances are not enough to meet every call.
How do you know that? You haven't got in yet.
Let ’ s do it!
Does Mr. Schmidt know he's going to become a father?
I can give you quarters, if that'll help.
I think I'd say Norway. It has many pictures as fjords, waterfalls, and mountains.
well, it depends.
Oh, well, I've lost some weight. And my hair is longer than before.
Just cut a little off.
Good idea. We can buy some candy and nuts for children.
I was thinking of 30 % off.
What a pity! You can't join us.
that ’ s clever! Then everyone knows that they are buying something the couple really want and there ’ s no chance of two people buying the same gift. What things were in the notebook?
Yes, of course I can drive you.So you don't want to get your phone fixed right away?
I ’ Ve thought about that a lot. I know that many women take a job, planning to make a career of it, and then they change their mind. But I am hoping to make it my lifetime work. So if I get married, I will find some ways that I can continue my work.
OH, This is the famous Emperor Palace building.
Mom, I hate eating vegetables!
That's not a problem?
We still have most of the tickets we bought.We can go on a lot of different rides if you like.
Why don't we start unpacking these boxes?
not bad, any other ideas?
Thanks very much and goodbye!
I just wanted to tell you what a great time I had with you at the movies last week.
Yes, it's not good for me or for the environment.
Sir, you didn't fill out the information on your arrival card of where you will be staying.
not today. She said she wanted us to relax tonight instead of doing homework ,
why not? It's their children, too.
I'm from New Zealand.
No, I will stay another day.my boss will get over it. Would you like to meet me for lunch tomorrow?
Sorry. No. You need to transfer to a connect flight in the middle.
They're on the left side of the TV.
What's that, a new video game?
yes, at the beginning we were all excited and had lots of fun. However, on the third day of traveling in the city, I felt sick. I think I had something bad to eat, but it passed by the evening.
That was my favorite class.
It cost me a couple thousand for the whole set.
Say, how about having Chinese food for a change?
Yeah. Which restaurant are we going to tonight?
A nice quiet house is exactly what we're looking for.
Bill, I'm expecting a big increase in turnover with the coming of the Mid-Autumn Festival. But wholesales are unwilling to supply my orders unless I pay them an advance of 50 % of the full price, for my business is fairly new. I hope that you can make me an advance on loan.
OK. This key is too high for me.
I think that we have a pretty good idea of what we would like to order.
I ’ m sorry sir. This computer is not broken or damaged. It’s simply just too old! That ’ s why your programs and applications are running slow. There really isn ’ t much I can do.
Good morning, sir. I've brought the breakfast you ordered.
He's been late for work twice.
I'll cook dinner for you.
Yes, speaking. Can I help you?
When I deleted the $ 10, the computer automatically added a $ 2 service charge.
Yes. I would like to book a table for 2 at 7:30 tomorrow evening.
I would love an appetizer. Are they listed in the menu?
How about this sunday?
We only need to verify your information against our records.
I'm clipping coupons.
That's different. When I'm working, I'm in a different frame of mind. But, when I even think about asking her out, I get tongue-tied. At least in a note, I can get the words out without turning beet red.
that's what everyone says! I can't wait to see it for myself some day.
The process of actually making the offer is something that I will take care of for you. What price were you considering offering?
Yes, apparently four stores were broken into.
You mean you didn't know much English then?
Yeah. And I have 5 credits to spare. I only needed to take 10 credits over the summer, but I took 15 because the price was the same.
what did you do after graduation?
Couldn ’ t be better. And you?
When you are seated, bent forward a little with your hands crossed, to show you respect the interviewer.
What do you need me to do?
I think you look fantastic. Happy Birthday!
Sorry. The road is too crowded.
Thank you, Mrs. Smith. I do hope the answer will be favorable. Goodbye.
What can I do? I have things to do in Students ' Government.
Just the bathroom plumbing seems to have a problem.
You're not lying, I found that movie absolutely hilarious.
I'm sorry I need to call the security to have a look.
Really? But his wife has always waited on him hand and foot.
Leave him alone, he ’ ll soon stop.
Yes, sir. There is a counter selling all kinds of souvenirs
Thomas, would you be so kind as to lay the table for me? I'm busy in the kitchen.
No, I shouldn't think so. By the way, is there a socket for my razor?
First of all, I need to share what the purpose of a home inspection is. Do you understand what I was doing there?
There are many things I miss. You can't get the ingredients here.
How do you usually spend your time, now that you ’ Ve retired?
I need to check these books out.
How about this one?
Sometimes. But I'll never forget the game in which our Chinese Women's Volleyball Team won the World Cup. It is the most thrilling and exciting game I have ever seen.
Thank you for that. And I will double your pay.
I had a wonderful experience with athletes.
Well, I think Clinton deserves high marks for doing his job generally, but he may get low marks for his honesty and personal image.
You're welcome. Turn the application in at Window B.
It is just pop song, you could have sung there too if you want it.
Our associates specializing in these fields make some access - ries. Well, here we ’ re at the production shop. Shall we start with the assembly line?
Was there something wrong with it?
In that case, I ’ d suggest a steel-string guitar.The best one we have is the Ovation.
What time would you like to leave?
We should be there by 5 this afternoon.
There are some seats in the rear mezzanine.
I've never met anyone like Clyde before.
The skirt looks beautiful. Can I try it on?
Just say goodbye to the interviewer before you leave.
505. Let me check it out. Just a moment, please. I'm sorry. You're right. We have found your sweater. We made a mistake delivering the laundry. We'll send it up to your room at once. We're very sorry for the inconvenience
Yes, a single room for March 28.
Could we borrow the company van for a fundraiser this weekend?
Carry him into the emergency ward. Here we are.
Our company is quite conscious of the environmental problems that frequent flying causes.
Wait. I want to ask you if this bus goes down Fifth Avenue as far as Greenwich Village.
I know, I'm sorry.
Is there I can do for you, miss?
Yes. I want to rent a formal suit for an interview. Can you give me some advice?
We will be leaving the campground at 5 in the evening and arrive at our campus at 8 p.m.Any more questions.
We can be so critical of one another.
You are more beautiful than the roses.
How long will it take to go over all the procedures?
You ’ Ve got a fever and playing football isn ’ t a good idea for a boy with a fever. What ’ s that on your arm?
You know, you could probably get a computer program that would help you. You already have a computer, so you could use that to help you mix some music.
Well, you know, the traffic in Beijing is sometimes dangerous. Therefore, I have to remind you of something. First, you should obey the traffic rules, don't break in the red light. Second, don't play a joke with your friends when riding on the bike. Third, do not hurry up when riding, or would make an accident. Finally, remember come on the left and go on the right!
Do you speak a foreign language?
Maybe we should rethink our marketing strategy to include the possibility that our new line of cosmetics could be a big seller.
Okay. I'm going to stay up a while. I've got to go over the household budget. We've sightly overspent this month.
Our 15 - inch Pro will cost you only $ 2,100.
I can recommend an apartment for you. A friend of mine is about to move. She doesn ’ t want to rent that house any longer.
Well, after you dial 9 on the keypad, you should hear the tone change.
It’s just a policy of ours.
so I take it you two are hitting it off? I know it's very convenient to be in a relationship with your neighbor, but what if you break up?
Yes.That ' s from 6:30 to 9:00 in the dinning room.
Yes, I believe so. How should I compensate for this?
My name is Sue. How do you do, Mr. Black?
1.15 U. S. dollars to the euro.
Oh, my god.
OK. By the way, can you tell me how many kilos of free baggage each passenger is allowed?
I see. Will you bring a lot of money with you?
Do you have your member card with you?
Don't worry about it. I need to have something done about those bushes.
Get me some of each.
What's the life expectancy in your country?
The problem is now on a truly global scale. I don't believe that any single country can do anything about it.
Oh, right. So, I can ’ t quite follow what ’ s going on... who ’ s winning?
I've been studying for my exams. My school exams will begin next month.
Sure. I know her elder sister Sue and younger sister Mary.
Thank you. This is my first time to come to a Chinese restaurant. Could you tell me the different features of Chinese food?
Excuse me, here is my claim tag, but I can't find my baggage.
Do you want to buy something else?
So, you'd better wear this eyeshade and you will sleep well.
Thanks for coming shopping with me.
It may be cheaper, but it takes a long time.
I want to know what port does our ship stop at?
Well, I don't want to take any chances. Besides, cartons are easy to cut open, and this increases the risk of pilferage.
I see. All right, well I think everything else I can figure out on my own. The deductions for health insurance and my 401 ( K ) are pretty self-explanatory. Thanks for your help, Susan.
It's cheaper if I don't buy one.
Okay. Here you go.
Could you fill these papers out, please?
I think that we should let someone know. They will probably want to fix the problem.
Let me run through a couple of other options with you. That way, you can make a more informed decision.
They're saying it was already there.
So you are interested in our company.
Your card number please?
Fully agree. I do enjoy the convenience though I am still a beginner in using Excel. The latest office equipment is more type-functional. It combines fax machine, copy machine and printer in one. It saves a lot of place one machine instead of three.
Not really. What ’ s up?
What would you do if you were in my shoes?
Again, you need to think carefully. If you don't trust others online, have nothing to do with them.
Can you help me pick out a gift for my daughter?
Your total is forty three dollars and twenty cents.
Yes, but other than that, are there any more problems?
not really. Sometimes, I even let other people make key decision for me.
Five hundred dollars, so you pay ten dollars for the insurance, that's two percent of the total value of the article.
Indeed, I found most of the employees dress casually when I went to the interview. Only the manager was in suit and tie and he just came back from a ceremony. It seems that their dress code is not that formal. Probably, I should put on car key and simple shirt.
Yes. I ’ m interested in a job your company posted on the Internet.
Yes, I have some foreign currency to declare.
That blue one right there. How much is it?
The pass is free.
Oh, What a cool job! How long have you worked there?
I'm Michael Smith from Eale Corporation.Pleased to meet you.
Hold on, I ’ ll get her.
Yes, I agree ; let's move on to the calculating of the score. Would that be OK?
I beg your pardon? Who ’ s climbing the tree.
What? Your diamond ring is lost?
Yes, it's still open.
True, but I still have to watch my baseball. The season's in full swing now.
Fifty dollars. What is the exchange rate today?
Let me use my credit card.
I'm completely lost. I'm looking for the Empire State Building.
How about oil or spray?
Then why not keep away from him?
I see and what do you do for a living?
Yes, that's fine. I'll take it. Can I pay by check?
Hmm, what I'm fearful of is that the accommodation will also deteriorate once we choose a cheaper hotel.
Then what do we do?
What do you think we can do about this?
Sorry, I've got a meeting in half an hour.
Clive is ready to explode. Keep your eyes open.
Hi there, everyone. We hope you're having a good night!
In that case, I won't keep you any longer. Drop in any time.
Oh, my goodness. Who do I need to talk to?
Not enough to worry about. Why do I waste the money buying two papers?
Mrs. Miller, you are an old friend of ours. In order to encourage future business and as a gesture of friendship, we are prepared to cut our price by 5 %. Will that satisfy you?
It's going to be 3 dollars 40 cents.
Oh, come on, I almost forgot. Don't worry about it. I didn't mind picking up the tab last time.
You ’ re free to go.
It's an open book that it was stolen by the man in black.
it's made from naturally frozen grapes.
Yes, I'd like a cheeseburger and a large order of French fries.
Are you sure you have $ 100 in your checking account?
It will be a piece of cake.
What's the regular price?
This room has two double beds. It's number 56 at the rear of the motel. It's quite a comfortable room.
Do you have your book list for your class?
Okay. Enjoy your browsing.
Sorry, I don ’ t know. I ’ m a passengers ’ m waiting for my train..
The position calls for a person with some working experience. We must be able to benefit from your analytical and interpersonal skills. Can you deliver your resume to us first?
To hell with you. The accident was your fault.
OK. How much is the fare?
I love that shirt on you.
Now, how would you like this check cashed, madam?
Why don't you try an Americano? Espresso with water.
Every time when you glimpse some stylish clothes, you change into another person.
We'll do the seaweed wrap, the jet bath, and the foot massage.
Good. See you!
I would appreciate it. When you give me a blood test, what are you looking for?
Maybe you can correct it by going to a driving range before you play again.
That sounds simple enough. Do you charge any admin fees for that?
Yes, but not including overtime pay. I'm looking for a salary slightly higher than my present one, with opportunities for raises if I work well.
May I know when he will be back?
That's OK. Thanks very much.
In the dustbin! Why didn't you tell me before?
Are you alright? Can you do more?
Is that why you stiffed the waiter?
I ’ Ve prepared most of it already and we ’ Ve got plenty of snack foods-you know, crisps, biscuits, and things. Are you going to make the punch?
I ’ d suggest you buy two. That allows you to change the brightness of the room better.
Well, you just want to watch Dark Angel because of the hot girl.
How about this one? It's graceful in style.
Right. Let's help each other.
To be frank, I find philosophy rather boring.
That is true! Here, have some Granola for breakfast.
Ok, how about midnight curfew. and I'll let you know where I am.
Two separate bills, please.
Here's two twenties.Keep the change.
Good morning. My name is Penny White. I'm new here.
Not as fun though. A live band is way more exciting!
Why? Isn't it obvious? First you impose way too much on me, and I'm tired away. Second, you stood me up on the Valentine's Day.
The product's selling points is its advanced technoledge.
Please show me your parcel order.
I think I will try to get the scholarship since I really don't have so much money to study abroad. Actually now I am preparing for the TEFL and GRE exams. If I can get high marks in the two exams and if I am lucky enough, I may get a scholarship.
What does it say? Do you think he'll see it?
What do you think about half day kindergarten for Stacey?
Morning. I'm a new user of your credit card and I was wondering if I'm taking full advantage of it.
I had a drop too much last night. I attended a banquet given by a Chinese colleague of mine. And it was startling for me to find that people are forced to drink against their will on a Chinese table.
Oh, good morning, Mrs. Liu. I'm calling to see if you have received my resume that I sent to you by Email.
Yeah. Oh, it's delicious!
Yes. And come here for tourism.
Thank you so much for your assistance!
I know! It’s an amazing growth opportunity! They ’ re true industry leaders, and it would be so interesting to be part of an organization that is the undisputed leader in business process platform development.
by the way, I saw a job in the paper this morning that you might be interested in.
Two books at a time. Except magazines or journals, they have to be read within library.
Yes, sure. This line of products is fragrance-free. We have a facial mask, moisturizing lotion, eye cream and tonic.
Oh, they're both so beautiful. Let me have this one, I think.
Hello. I have a room booked for tonight, the 15th.
We've been cramming for tomorrow's history exam since early this morning. What do you say we take a break and listen to some music, okay?
I can ’ t believe that.
No, here is the confirmation number, would that help? It is 898007, I had the room booked with a visa cord card.
Excuse me. Can I open a postal savings account in your office?
John, I am just not in the mood for this.
You can make the sale of the house contingent on them fixing the problems.
I would like to speak to you, if you don ’ t mind.
I'll certainly try to help you.What topic is your paper on?
Well, you should try my store. The prices are good.
Exercising at home is hard. The environment is not suited for exercising.
Sure and which one would you like?
Great! It sounds like you might be a good fit. As you know, we ’ re one of the largest brokerage houses in the world. Our daily work is quite hectic, and we, re looking for an assistant who can keep us organized... help keep the engines running smoothly, so to speak. Our hours are long, but the overtime pay is good... sort of makes up for the long hours.
This TV is $ 2500.
I am calling about the advertisement for a flat with a bedroom. Do you still have it?
I think so, ‘ cause I remember the policeman told me this is the very way.
' The Drunken Beauty '? It's funny that we have ' Sleeping Beauty ' in my country. Anyway, what's it about? Is the beauty a drunkard?
weki, Doctor. I went to a birthday party.
Of course. If you have any questions, just bring them out.
It's my geography, sir. The Map of Africa you set us.
No thanks. I've had enough.
I remember that I never saw an X moves even displayed.
We are arriving at Wangfujing. Please get ready.
What other signs what we see in road area like this?
Would you show me some?
Hey Ted, I saw this ad in the paper. You should take a look.
... and for us to get tans in our new bikinis.
Well, there are two causes of job stress. One is employee characteristic and the other is company condition. So if we want to manage job stress, both we and the companies should do something. For me, I am trying to balance work and leisure time. You know, all work and no play make Jack a dull boy.
You like the rain?
How much do you need to make per year?
I was away for my vacation.
it can't be that bad. She was always a really good friend to you.
Tasty and tender! It must be one of the famous local dishes.
What's going on over there?
Look what you did to my rear bumper.
ok. Let ’ s not forget fruit and vegetables. We need a bunch of bananas, a kilo of tomatoes and a bag of potatoes.
As I was saying, we blow air through the mouth in this manner. Once this is done, we must try to get the heart going again. To do this, we place our hands over the person ’ s chest, and press down firmly two or three times.
Yes. I'll have a mixed green salad.
Fine then. Let's get started.
Please call us if you change your mind.
Please accept this tip.
It’s dangerous. I don ’ t dare to go.
And please shut the door and lock it behind you!
Everyone has a talent. They just need to find it.
Yes, it looks perfect.
Yes. When I came out of the subway, it was raining cats and dogs. And I forgot my umbrella. So I had to wait for the rain to let up.
Eight tens, six ones and large silver for others.
OK. Please fill in these forms and take them back when you are done.
What did you do after graduation?
What are your plans now that you ’ re getting out?
I ’ m fine. I ’ Ve been out of town. I just got back.
This apartment is nice, but I'd like to find a cheaper one.
Goodbye. Thanks again for everything.
It costs 275 yuan, Miss.
One slight problem, sir. I need to charge you $ 2 to remove this error from your file.
Why do you choose our company?
Have I got a high fever?
He is afraid of his father-in-law.
Yesterday. I didn't even know it was coming. He just told me he found someone else.
Well, please sing one that ’ s not sad.
that's the Return of the King, right?
Did you vote for him, because I know that I did.
I've been snowed under with since my bosses away on business.
It's coming along well, but it is a little delayed.
Congratulations! This is your first interview ever.
It wasn't a dirty movie. There wasn't even any nudity.
Yes. We have an appointment at eight o ’ clock.
There are a few considerations. Is this a part-time or full-time job?
That's true. But I am sorry I can't make an exception. We have quoted you our lowest price. We can't give you any more discounts.
This is all too fast. He's my best friend, and now he's gone.
But most of time, they provide assistances.
For 1,200 yuan to Nanchang, the commission is 12 yuan.
This apartment looks nice.
We prefer non-smoking section.
Well. I don't like Your Lips very much.
My little boy, you should learn more from me. I'm almost thirty years older than you.
And I like the festivities of winter with Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year.
You mean I'm among the people who have to go?
Your throat is inflamed. And your tongue is heavily coated. You have all the symptoms of influenza.
Just do like this.Very simple.
Good morning.Mrs.Smith.
I'm so busy. I don't know how will get this done.
well then, this could be a nice opportunity to enjoy it together. I bet you'd love it.
And also, the bank and branch name the company holds an account with and the account number.
Did your wife enjoy it?
Mom, I've got something to tell you.
I'm sure you'll do well. Did you study hard?
Yeah, I'm gonna go to the bank and change it for bills, but first I have to separate them into little piles.
I know. I don't want to get sick, especially during finals week.
For a batch of 6,000 we would charge two dollars a doll. your total cost would be $ 12,000.
Nothing really. How about you?
To tell you the truth, I don't like it. It's too noisy.
I heard you were promoted to general manager of IBM ’ s China Head quarters.
No. That's not enough. I've got some cereal.
Yes, it is the right one
I don't want people to think I'm stingy.
Twenty dollars and sixty cents.
Solomon, I thought we had agreed to change this deadline.
In that case, our offer for the white-collar series is US $ 200, and the other is US $ 300 per set.
Honey, seriously, It’s just a sheep. Relax! Relax, that was just the horses and donkeys that are in the stable.
That ’ s okay, I ’ ll take the stairs!
That's perfect. I will definitely do well.
Hello, Kith, can you and Alice come around this evening? We prefer your coming.
But what would other people think?
How about we go to the yard sale first and then to the university flea market?
It has been two or three days.
Not at all. She's actually very athletic.
Is that the Da Vinci Code that you've got there?
My whole family are going to Hainan for visiting. What about you?
What did you learn at the workshop you went to yesterday? Do you think it was worth the investment to go?
25 cents a day.
I went to a movie with my boyfriend.
Good morning. I'd like to pay my bill.
You're right.Make - up can only disguise my age, but exercise may delay it.
Is breakfast included?
Are you sure, sir? Flies I could believe, but cockroaches?
No. That's incomplete.
Would you bring the message to my room?
You've simply forgotten to wind it up, have you? When do you usually wind it up?
I spend most of my spare time reading. And I subscribe to various newspapers, magazines and periodicals.
Let me give you a hand.The author is...
Oh, good. Then what is it?
I think that jobs in the leisure industry will become more popular in the future.
Of course I ’ m nervous.
Oh, yes. We will give you a 5 % commission on every transaction.
My pleasure. I hope you get a hold of him.
Here you are. How is Danny?
Then I bet he's really good!
Hey, Andrew. How's everything with work?
I need about a pound of ground beef.
Let's go to the cinema by bus.
Really, well, o. k. Get the receipts out.
Maybe they are still wet behind ears.
I am proud to know that he is our President.
I've already got a small pan. I need a big one.
We normally export CFR.
Not bad. You know I'm an air traffic controller now.
I start work at three.
Kids are always difficult to control.
Ditto, it doesn't look too expensive either.
thank you very much. I ’ m looking forward to hearing from you about this job.
Sure. How do you want it?
The carpeting and paint are all new, as well as the window treatments.
OK. please fill in this form and label it.
Okay, we have the same thing in aluminum.
No, I ’ m not. Would you please drive slowly and carefully?
Who ’ s that?
Of course. You see, almost everyone has some kind of hobby
Just let me sleep 5 more minutes.
all right. Do you have any questions?
Yes. I'd like to know how to use the library. You know, I'm a new student here.
30.00 dollars a week.
Yes, please. And I want some glue.
Listen, I know who you are. If you call this number again, I ’ ll call the police. You ’ ll be arrested. I ’ Ve got your number.
But I'll miss the news.It ' s important in my business to keep up with events in China.
No, thanks. Oh, yes, could I have some juice for the mini bar?
Thank you. I just bought these new shoes earlier today.
Yeah, but who wants to go in? I'm not gay, you know. Why should I go in a gay bar?
Oh, no, never. What's the exact time you'd like us to call you tomorrow morning?
Just a few shirts.
well, I was late to work today. It was the third time I was late this week.
Put it on my VISA.
Could you come and help me mend the computer, Neel?
Oh, very interesting. And what about Rita? She was such a bright child — always reading.
This price of yours is out of the question. You must know that the cost of production has risen a great deal in recent years.
They're neat. Now Let's take that path into the woods and see what we can see...
Thank you.that will be all. I ’ ll take care of it.
what is it like living in on-campus housing?
How high was your temperature yesterday?
It's me, sir. But I am sorry I have forgotten to prepare for it.
How could you handle living in such a big family? Does everyone get along?
Well, I must be off now. I have an appointment at six.
Ok... I ’ ll talk to you later. Bye
Hi Henry. How are you? Is everything Okay in your apartment?
That's strange. It should be on the desk.
Mike! Look at the floor!
Well. They may ask you to tell them more about your educational background and your working background.
We'll get a big bonus this year, won't we?
Have you any package tour to Italy?
I should have booked the tickets in advance.
I'm not really used to it yet.
Are they going to frisk all the passengers?
Please wait till your name is called.
Yes, of course. How about this one? It's a new route.
I'm planning to meet my personal trainer to have the work-out plan fixed.
I will go to Japan on business for 5 days next Tuesday. I want to exchange some Japanese yen.
Hmm. You ’ Ve got mail.
In this aspect, I think, Pater bags have the edge on plastic bags.
What are you doing here today?
No, I'm afraid not now. I'm too busy.
Am I allowed to eat spicy food?
I don't think I ever got food from the cafeteria.
OK, that ’ s fine. Bye.
I'm pretty social and outgoing, and I like making new friends. But I'm not a party animal, and I like to keep the apartment clean.
What time does the next train to London leave?
Thank you. Your cash back is 13 dollars. Pull into a parking states, and we'll bring you your fries in two minutes.
Of course. Will American Express do?
I know of the past years we have faced and shared troubles, but we survived and here we are.
I get along pretty well with most of them.
Sure, what package do you want?
no. It's all yours.
Sorry, I forgot. I don ’ t like seafood, neither.
What do you think of the literature course?
Yeah, I crave my own space. I just get so tiredhaving people around me all the time. We all need our private space. But I also think interpersonal skills very important. Living in a dorm means you have to learn to be considerate of others, otherwise nobody is going to have a good time.
How much more are you thinking?
200 dollars per week.
Look, Bob. This is a photograph I took during my trip to Australia.
Why haven't you answered the phone?
would you like to buy any other cosmetics for your girlfriend? We have a full range of products from cosmetics to skin cleansers and moisturizers.
I'll take it. Please wrap it up for me and give me the receipt.
Oh, well thank you very much.
Sounds like you'll be able to help me a lot.
So, Wily, you have been with IBM for two years ready for change?
Yes, we have several brands, which one do you prefer?
It's flight CA169, which leaves Beijing at 8: 00 a. m. on January 20th.
We are on the bottom floor.
I have a fifteen-day vacation and I want to have a trip to England. Is there any route that fits me well?
I know it does, and that's because it is.
I really don't want to go by myself.
I'm just watching some television.
Look at what you have done. All thumbs.
Rachel, do you like music?
I rather doubt it.You ' re cheated by his appearance, I think.
Well, we have some special projects coming up. Would you be interested in working on any of those?
Yes, I do. Who are your financial backers? Who are the key competitors? Does the company have a plan for the IPO? What would you say is the best thing about your product or service?
I guess it lets people express their individual tastes. But won't some people abuse it?
Is this OK?
I'm trying to reach Robert please.
I don't know. I'm too excited to say a word.
Rudeness. You are not expected to sit down before being invited, and you shouldn ’ t throw yourself into the chair like you ’ re loading heavy baggage.
Jenny, don't you think it's really charming?
Dear, let ’ s drop the subject.
I've said that I've got a problem with the circus. I'm not kidding.
last time when we had dinner at the Smith's, it was a horrible experience. He had no manners at all!
You shouldn ’ t overdraft.
I love swimming and cycling. On Saturday morning I usually ride my bike around the city or the country road for almost two hours.
The bracelet is so well suited to you. It looks very nice.
The railway station? Just go down this street and turn left at the second corner.The station is at the end of that street.
Well, a way to make a living, of course, but beyond that I think a job is a way of developing oneself as a person.
No, sweetie. I'll make you some tomato soup and rice.
the fish hook that they use is quite disturbing!
I don ’ t suppose you could.
Well, no. I thought I ‘ Ve finish in five minutes. and I didn ’ t want to be difficult about just few minutes, if I hadn ’ t been missing the bus and in the traffic I wouldn ’ t have been so late. I ’ m sorry.
I ’ m glad to hear that.
If you want to swim, you can visit the gym any day between 7 a. m. and 10 p. m.
Okay, what package would you like to order?
Would you help me figure out what to do about the office party?
Yes, I told him that you were very ill and couldn't attend.
Of course. I'm not very busy at the moment. If you can wait for about 15 or 20 minutes. I can take you there.
I should still tell him. In the least, I can refer him to my company. It might help.
Is he still in that that type of work.
If you order more than 10,000 pieces, we can accept 115 yuan for each one.
It is. I love it.
What curb colors?
Well...? Have you thought of it yet?
No problem. First, it's comfortable and cozy. Second, it has a lovely view of the city. Third, it has all kinds of electric appliances that we need, such as refrigerator, electric stove, heating apparatus, washing machine and dishwasher. Forth is the most important, the electricity is free of charge. Finally, it's located in the center of the city and the transportation is convenient.
Hello. Yes, I've just read your leaflet about the new MoneyLink Card. I was wondering how I go about applying for one.
I think I'll have a glass of wine. Let's see... they have red wine, white wine and port. They even have sangria! It's the happy hour special.
How long can I keep the books?
No problem. Once we get your purchase order, we will begin the execution of the order right away.
Let me see.. um. Gone With the Wind. It is on at six cinemas on Saturday night.
oh, we had to break up because she didn't want to float around in Beijing. She insisted on working in her hometown and having a stable life.
I think that ’ s settled.
That sounds really neat. Is there an extra charge for these swim stations?
I'm sorry, sir, after 7
How nice! Have fun!
I'm completely lost. I'm trying to find the way to my daughter's home.
This isn't like you... Well, I hope you will have a nice flight and a successful start in business
There ’ s an interesting interview with a top fashion designer about the latest fashions. I enjoyed reading her thought. The “ which? ” section is very interesting this month. They tested facial cleaners. The article recommends “ all clear ” for effectiveness and price.
Is that spelt M, A, C or M, C?
Weed! You know? Pot, Ganja, Mary Jane some chronic!
Yes, do you have sweaters?
my new phone are truly remarkable.
You get off on Del Mar and Hill.
Daniel, don't forget to take enough water and food.
I see. You've got a cold.
No problem.Get in now.
How about a movie on Sunday, Mum?
Give me your water and electricity bills, please.
So, have you been on the bus very long?
I hear you have to wear uniforms at private schools.
Was he disqualified?
So are you going to get a new swimsuit?
Hello. This is the operator. Can I speak to Mr. Smith, please?
In order to prevent the fish from eating the poet's body.
I see. What about the maximum purdy and rate, any change?
Have you turned it on?
I think a crew cut is the most suitable for you.
You see. I've lost my weight in spite of my good appetite.
Oh, come on! I have sixteen items! Cut me some slack, will ya?
It seems quite easy. I will try both of them.
You know, sometimes I can't feel my ears and fingers.
By air of course.
My family really needs a car, we live quite far out of the town centre, but unfortunately we cannot afford to pay out such a large sum of money in one go.
Let me see, the buying rate is RIB 808 per $ 100. How much would you like to change?
Birds of feather flock together. You must be one of these men.
Yes, we do, thank you.
Anyway, we apologize for the inconvenience we have brought you. Please just wait for a moment, and it will be fixed.
Yeah. Is Cindy up?
Do you have other questions?
Thank you. I'm glad that you believe me.
For sure! I didn ’ t really understand some of the technical jargon they used in the film when they talked about social security in the US.
Well, to be fare, since he's coming all the way from Lancaster, he's got to get up much earlier than the rest of us. He must get start on his commute about six thirty, no telling what time he actually gets up.
I want a pair of locus.
How long are you staying?
Yes, but I prefer red wine with meat.
You ’ ll be a mathematician one day.
I have confidence in them.
Who's the man that is kicking the boy?
the one in Florida is Disneyworld and the one in California is Disneyland, so you must have been to Disneyland.
Select ' pay multiple beneficiaries ', here... then select ' pay from the account ' in the drop down menu... OK, good. Then we need to enter the beneficiary statement reference.
Yeah, I guess so. Maybe I can go to sleep now and get up early to review the lessons tomorrow.
I'd like a dozen long-stemmed roses.
Have you decided which city you want to go?
Yes, sir. We have many trains going to Beijing, fast train, through train, express train and tourist train. Which train do you prefer?
No, I can't agree with you. She's one but not the other.
It’s too loud.
I am sorry, I didn ’ t catch what you said. Could you repeat it please?
Can you tell me the concept of e-commerce? Now, many people mentioned the word, ' e-commerce ', in front of me.
I'll take it then.
No. That ’ s everything. Thank you.
That ’ s fantastic. Thank you.
Is there a bus tour?
How about Legally Blonde.
I really have to get to Paris by this evening.Would you please try to find any other available flight?
A Grinch is a person who spoils the mood at a happy occasion by being selfish or unenthusiastic. You know - a party proper.
OK, I'll be with you in a moment.
Oh, nothing special. I'm just a bit tired.
Laura, what are you going to do today?
I'll put the call through then.
I should be most delighted.
Thanks, I like it too. I bought it at the nearby department store.
The Engineering Manager and his team will interview the candidates. HR will also be involved with the interview, but basically arranging the schedule and explaining the benefits.
I know that they already have a Range Dance team and then what we need is just to do some rehearsals.
I've been told that you are a very successful businessman abroad. I wonder how you managed to achieve such success?
Fine, what do you call this?
Good morning, room reservations. Can I help you?
yes, breakfast is included and parking is available.
I ’ Ve gotta hand it to you, you really did a good job!
I'm quite sure. I've always loved working with children.
I ’ m actually here on business.
Well. I think I will wait.
As you know, china has a single-child policy. Therefore, there ’ s just my husband, my daughter and I. What about in your family?
Here is one tailor's shop. Why not order one here?
But I see people sweat a lot doing Yoga too.
Yes, a legend, also. I still remember, his movies, Jurassic Park and Schindler's List got him nine Oscar awards in 1994.
That short guy on her right. What's his name?
The chef would be happy to accommodate your special requests.
How does it fit?
Let ’ s think this through. First of all, you cannot leave Amy at the altar. Not only will she be humiliated and kill you, but she is the woman that you love and the woman of your dreams! Why would you want to end that or jeopardize it like this? Second of all, you are just getting cold feet. You know deep down inside that you want to marry her, so cut the crap and do it!
Thank you for seeing me. Did you look over my letter and resume?
I was born here.
That's very generous.
Nine would be good, don't you think?
I don't want to.
Come off it, Mary.
Well, income taxes were decreased last year in hope to give the economy a boost, but I think it's backfired. The immediate effect of the tax reduction was to cause inflation to rise.
I am not good at it by any means. Give me some advice.
I went to Yale University.
Thanks for flattering me. I think you dance a lot, right?
I am calling to let you know that you are selected to fill the position of Project Manager.
Hey, how would you like to taste my fist?
Are there many side effects?
Yes. My bike has one under the seat. Get it, quick!
Yes, we are. Could we have the check please?
One study said that low-income groups have a higher percentage of over-weight people than higher income families.
You have been late with your rent several times now. I am filing suit for back rent to protect myself.
In your life? Are you kidding? Never?
Okay, you are all set, Mr. Armstrong. Enjoy your flight!
I'd like to pay this cash into my account please. I usually do it at the machine, but the queue is very long today.
That sounds nice and cheap.
He is too unpredictable. He says anything that pops into his head. And then he forgets it all.
No. You can never count on the grown-ups when there is something.
But I... I still love him! And It’s all my fault! I can ’ t believe how immature and selfish I was being. I mean, he is a firefighter, It’s not like he can just leave someone in a burning building and meet me for dinner. I ’ Ve totally messed this up!
All right. The police and an ambulance are on the way. In the meantime, find a clean cloth and press it firmly over the wound. This will slow the bleeding.
have you started looking again yet?
Well, thank you again for coming to see us. But just remember that we like people who join the company to play in the company sports teams.
OK. Let me try it on. What do you think?
It's no use arguing the toss.
Yes, I don't know why it doesn't work this time.
what other important buildings are we going to see on Fifth Avenue?
Well, before, I was the skinniest guy on the beach.
It sure is. They also serve tea, coffee and refreshments. The Center staff members are also friendly and helpful. Everyone loves them.
How about some coffee and tea as well?
I sure would.
Yes, of course. I'll take it.
I know. I am available from 1 PM to 4 PM on Friday afternoon.
Would you like to pay in cash or by card?
No, I don't think you're right.Kate never does things like that.It must be a naughty boy who did it.
Happy birthday! Many happy returns ( of the day ).
My front window was busted.
What else will the Employment Development Office need?
It's already half past four. We should go and pay our respects. Taylor's family will be there.
I ’ d really rather not. I ’ ll be too tempted to buy something that I can ’ t afford!
Yes, I have seen those spots.
I think you're being a little critical. The actor in the lead role is fantastic. I suppose the chorus could be a bit better, though.
is there anything else bothering you?
Have you bought a bus pass yet?
My pleasure. Let's go and have a drink.
You are still a student?
so do i. I don ’ t like cats.
He is a nice guy and very considerate. I am impressed with how smart and humorous.
Oh, then it's my honor to be here with you. I can see now why you've been so curious about the bar. You like this place?
thanks, but I'll stick with some jasmine tea. I'm trying to watch my diet.
Yes, let me put it on the calendar.
It's nice meeting you too, Alice.
I know, I know. I will do it all by myself.
Are you sure that's high enough?
No way! That sounds great!
That's two for me and one for you.
I remembered Tom is always out of tune. We burst into laughter.
Learning any language takes a lot of effort. But don't give up. Why don't we practise those dialogues together?
It was scary, but it felt great, too.
But Steven, you've called in sick 3 times during the last three weeks.
Let ’ s find out what time it starts.
If you got to class by riding a bicycle every day instead of driving, you will get lots of exercise, too!
Similar to a Promissory Note, yes. I can deal with that for you right here. The difference between a Promissory Note and a Bill of Exchange is that this product is transferable and can bind one party to pay a third party that was not involved in its creation.
I'd like a room with a nice view, please.
Oh, I should have thought of my brother's baby girl. Maybe I'll just have a dog instead of an exotic pet.
You can get help there in dealing with the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service ; you can find Foreign Student Advisers.
Hi, Steven. What's new with you?
Very interesting. But I'm afraid we'd better do something else. Hey, look! There is a huge lantern there. Let's get close to it.
So, as long as I have one of those, I can apply for a Personal Pledge Loan?
you know, usually the woman is in her thirties and she is a left girl.
I guess you are right. What do you think I should do? He wasn ’ t always this grouchy you know...
Let me also have three pounds of chicken breasts.
It really must be an exciting time for you guys.
Here you are. Please give me a receipt.
Yes. I want to make a plane reservation to Shanghai, China.
That's all you need.
Don't worry, we'll find someone eventually!
Will you please copy these diplomas tor me?
I know. But my life seems super stressful. I really don ’ t know how to get a better grab on things.
You are right. That's the Heart of Lake Pavilion, situated on an islet.It was built in 1552 and is the largest pavilion on the West Lake. Oh, here we are at the Little Yingzhou island. Let's get off the boat. Please watch your steps.
Oh, is it? Let me check.
When I went back to my doctor to hear the results of my lab tests, I tried to keep a poker face even though I was scared to death. Then you guess what he said.
that's true. Is everything alright with my documents?
Try a car wash and selling candy.
No problem. I ’ ll wait over there.
You must not feel depressed about such a trivial thing.
Well, I don't know, but we can find out. We can talk to him and ask if he wants to join our group.
Yes, on a business trip. How about Yuu?
How have they decided to deal with that?
OK. Do yon have a pen and a paper now?
I'm glad you're on your ten-year reunion planning committee.
Does bullfight interest you much?
He's quite a patient teacher, too.
You seem to very busy these days. What are you doing?
How much money do you expect in this position?
That ’ s exactly what they did.
David, why don't you clean your room?
I don't know. Maybe It’s some kind of personal problem.
I know you are, you are my girlfriend. I wish I had a guy friend to hang out with sometimes.
Yes, sawdust is the tiny particles of wood.You could call it wood dust. You must wipe it off.The wood should be very clean before you put the varnish on.
It’s easy. Don ’ t worry about it.
Well, getting a Doctorate degree would mean close to a decade of school. Can you afford that? Can you survive that?
I look forward to more of writers.
Do you want to study together?
Yes. Take myself for example. I seldom go to cinemas, but it doesn't mean I no longer see films ; instead, I see films at home-watching Ccds.
Okay.When is your restaurant open?
Yes. I find my heart is now rising and falling like waves, all sorts of feelings welling up in my heart.
Hi there, I'm Steve Saunders.What ' s your name?
Ah, Mary, good evening. Look, I was wondering if you like to come to a party we are having on Friday? There are many coming from the office.
Do you have any experience in this field?
Do you help with the housework?
First please get the bill at the doctor's office, then pay it either with cash or by check. Even though you're discharged, you still need to take a rest at home. Don't hurry back to work until you have fully recovered.
Sorry, sir, we are having a sale now.
Don't drive too fast.
Yes. You sure have come a long way in valuing your hard earned dollars.
What kind of wine do you offer?
I am afraid not. I have no interest in them at all.
How many more fund units would you like to purchase today?
Thanks. Have you got the L / C number?
I see. Do you remember how much you paid for your ticket?
No, but my father's car was destroyed in a flood once. It actually happened the day after he bought the car!
Oh, it's Jack. Excuse me.
Really? Let me check it.
I'm happy with that price.
That ’ s cool. Have you already found an apartment to live in?
Well as I mentioned before, I do tend to get frustrated if I don ’ t see progress in my work or career. I suppose I ’ m quite a restless character. My father always taught me to be a high achiever so.
That musicians was lit!
What? Why! I am taking an intercontinental flight! I ’ m flying sixteen thousand CMS! How am I supposed to only take two, twenty kilo bags? That ’ absurd!
No, outside food is not permitted.
I ’ ll take three light blue ones, please.
I was nervous at that time. What about you?
Yes, with a B.
How about languages?
Yeah, child is the matter. Don't tell Jenny the truth, only tell her the white lie. When she grows up, you find the suitable opportunity to tell her.
I'm glad when people have new ideas around here. Tell me about it.
And that'll be 10:15 p. m. Beijing time.
My mother woke me up. She had heard me crying out for help.
Are you saying that there weren ’ t any problems?
Good. Do you have any particular conditions that you want us to take into consideration?
Books, cosmetics, daily necessities, even large electrical appliance can be ordered from online-stores.
0K. Well, I suppose I have no choice. What do you want me to do?
Hi charles, I want you know that i finally found an apartment in haitian.
But that is terrible! I am only here for one night!
Why have you decided to change jobs?
We've been waiting here for nearly ten minutes now, and there still isn't a bus in sight.
You're right. Well, just these two, please.
It should take at least 20 minutes to get there. Are there any shuttle buses running place to place around the whole zoo?
When will our party be held?
Order in the court!
I help out at the children ’ s hospital. I help plan activities.
Wow! What a lucky girl! Your birthday is on Christmas Day.
His mother, not me, should do this.
Great! Could you tell me your educational background?
The food wasn't all that exciting.
I often sneeze after having a bad itch inside my nose. Sometimes this is accompanied by an itching throat.
This place is great. I'm surprised there are so many things here.
My aunt says her company is in need of an assistant now, and she wants me to give it a try.
I know it is.
Yes, I have some fresh apples in my suitcase.
How long will it take for my new apartment to be ready?
Did you hear about the pilot?
When did you buy it from our store?
May I see your receipt?
No, we can't. It's thundering.
Of course. This camera is easy to operate.
Our foundation is of very super quality. We only use the finest ingredients. It will moisturize your skin and it can protect your skin from UVA and UVB.
where will I be staying?
Really? I have been told, by another bank, that it makes it difficult if you want to investigate a company which is registered outside China.
Certainly! How much are you planning to spend on dinner, sir?
Yes, sure. Have a sweet dream!
Do you have any plan on your mind?
Yes, I ’ d love another glass. You ’ re a wonderful host. Thank you for everything.
Leave me alone.
Do you want some dessert?
Thanks for the warning, Mom.
The contract is to be written in Chinese and English. Both languages are equally effective.
None, I guess. My only passion is on reading.
So they're easy to remember.
Wait a second, please... These are 24,060 RIB and the receipt, please check them.
Nice to meet you, Dolma.
You look so happy, Anna. Any good news?
Yes, I always have coffee in the morning.
Could you tell me the cost of production per unit?
In about twenty minutes.
Excuse me, can I have a look at the green coat?
A piece of cake. You'll be successful.
And then, it'll be dinner time, then homework, and then your Show is on.You are going to break your promise.
You ’ re right. I am sorry. Let ’ s go and watch the movie.
Yes. We're satisfied with the result.
Well, you can come to a work-in clinic today. You do not need an appointment.
You don't have to know. Bye for now.
But it would only be adding to the existing structure. We're not talking about anything new here...
Wait for me 。
OK. If you really insist, I could always use the company.
OK. What does it sell?
Yes, well, you haven't had one for 5 years. You should have one every year.
Of course, otherwise you ’ ll just have to wait for hours.
Susan suggested the one on Main Street. She says it is very good.
You got it. Good job.
No problem. It is always worth trying something new once in your life time.
I'm feeling very sad. I just read the newspaper.
But ladies, the room is not yet ready. There will be a delay of about half an hour. Perhaps you could fill in the registration form first, and then rest in our lobby for a while. We will let you know when the room is ready.
I see. Then what about tomorrow, at Starbucks?
I'm afraid I can't I advise you to try again next year.
Um, Tracy? I think that ' s a little too formal. I know you want to be polite but you've already made contact with them, so in English you can be more relaxed in the opening...
It could be bad food, but I didn ’ t feel so well yesterday, either.
Here's the key then.
Oh, that ’ s a nice idea. Well, It’s fine if you take our picture.
It must be most precious.
Every day I have less money! I haven't spent anything, it is just melting away because of the shifts in exchange rate.
thank you, Steve. You're always so encouraging.
Thanks a lot. That's the favor I was going to ask you for.
I'm trying to buy a new bedroom set.
well, maybe just a little. I can't seem to make it fit.
I see. And how about the working hours?
Oh, hi Mike. I ’ Ve been out of town the last few days. What did you need?
No problem, sir. Everything will be ready when you come back.
That ’ s smart. What do you usually do to relieve your anger?
Do you have any other services available?
I am afraid I would tense up during the interview.
well, if you want we can go together sometime. Actually I was thinking of going this afternoon, if you like, you can join me and I can show you the neighborhood along the way.
I would like to make one right now.
I hate the car columns on the road.
Yeah, I see. You are just doing your job. But I wanna know what the advantages it has.
Mom, Dad! Can you come to my room? I think there is something under my bed!
Would you mind me keeping it for another three days?
Yes, we have to.Do you think you can make it tomorrow?
Let me introduce myself, by the way. My name's Thomas Bradley.
Yes, I don't feel well today.
John, I'm hard up at the moment. Could you lend me five hundred yuan? I'll return it to you early next month.
But you agreed to go out with me at last.
OK, Nick. Here's the question, What movie and its sequel both won an Oscar for Best Picture?
I hope you enjoy your dinner.
To the ministry government hall.
It means that if you place a big order, we usually allow 15 % for a trade discount. And our products feel more slip, colorful and faddish than others. You can have a look.
Well, we drove through the valley on our way there in the morning. It was a magnificent sight.
Oh, that's very considerate of you. I'lI take your word for it.
Huh, oh, hi, Jane. I must have fallen asleep while I was reading.
That is exactly what we're looking for.
We can work something out.
Look at the map. It has different areas, such as marine lives, mammals, polar animals and insects.
So, what was the best thing about your trip?
Yes, your laptop is on the chair.
How did you know that?
I'll tell you something that's good about action movies. The special effects are great!
Yeah. It’s pretty cold, alright.
It's possible. Give me a minute and I can fix these for you and then we can go.
Don ’ t you worry, I ’ ll take care of everything! ( starts cutting ) Oh my god! I just love your curly hair! It’s so fluffy and cute! You should totally let it grow out. An afro would look great on you!
In my opinion, the rent is far more expensive than that in other areas.
Me, too! Do you want to come over and watch the next game at my place? I'm planning on having a few people over to watch it together.
Well, he has already taken you know, that's his wife right there.
Yeah, it sounds like it usually does when I start the car, but nothing else happens. The engine won ’ t start. Should I maybe press the accelerator?
I didn ’ t say I ’ d already decided, dad. I said it was for me to decide. There is a difference.
May and Danny have already grown up.
I heard one observer even said ' It was a song sung in Spanish for international football, and he made it so popular that even the Americans loved it. '
To have this business concluded, I should say a reduction of least 10 % would help.
It couldn't be better. My husband is so supportive with my work and he helps around the house so much.
So, so you're British, do you missing them?
Sorry, we don't give discounts.
Okay, thank you.
Okay. Where would you like to have your last bill sent to you?
Okay, I'll be right back... Congratulations! The manager approved the final price $ 15,000.
I am sorry, sir, it's not allowed.
I disagree with you. Companies usually make a workable and reasonable plan for the trainings, so as to improve new comers ' understanding of the company and its rules in short time. Through the training, we get to know many things, such as the corporate culture and spirit. Our newcomers can really grasp the essence of the company
Okay. I chose this swimming suit. Do you like it?
It's hard to say. Weather is so changeable in the summer. Please listen to the latest announcement about your flight.
How long will the tour take?
Didn't you say you were planning a trip to China? I heard the northwest and north of China are experiencing severe sandstorms!
I love the paint job!
You gotta give it a chance. It's fun after awhile.
Of course, it's a soft leather one, you know, not a sports one that looks childish.
Half the dough huh. Well. How would you like to earn the other half?
What's your favorite book?
I won ’ t be able to pay that right now.
Could I have a word with you, Madam?
I think I have the cash. Let me check. Yes, here you are.
Saturday? Oh, I have a previous engagement.
Thank you. So what do you think? Would we have a good time?
Well, just as long as you realize that red means no parking and white means loading and unloading, I think you know what you need to know.
Why are you doggy-paddling? I taught you how to swim! Do your breast stroke!
No, early saturday morning.
I'll look out for you about 2 tomorrow afternoon.
Cindy, can you show me how to call Connecticut?
Are you looking for a small, medium, or large pan?
Sure, here you go.
The door bell doesn't work, the sink is leaking, there's no hot water, and the building is falling apart!
Are you coming or not?
Follow me and I will lead you to your seat.
I'll take two value meals.
There are many factors that weigh in, but NASDAQ is down 200 points, the DOW JONES indicator also suffered! Our portfolio is worth half of what it was worth points week ago.
Oh, you mean palm reading 5. I've seen that before, but I don't believe in it.
It depends on the weight of these things. Generally speaking, we will charge you ten yuan for one kilogram.
Is there anywhere I can buy some more cards with beautiful scenery?
OK. Good-bye.
where are you going to work then, in Australia or back in China?
Will you say it again?
But I ’ m not able to live here anymore.
It starts getting more crowded the closer you get to LA.
I found it would be a good idea to get a check-up.
Actually, some of my fon best memories of my childhood were of spending time with my family in the basement waiting for the tornados to pass.
Hello.May I speak to Mark, please?
The national anthem of Canada is ' O Canada '.
Is it very cold in winter?
That's right. They always talk about a need for new, progressive tactics, but they haven't done anything to stimulate new jobs.
are you working overtime again? Over the last two weeks, you have worked overtime every day without a break! Your company is draining the life out of you!
No, I'm from the north. I was born in Beijing, actually.
No, Sharon Stone did.
Excuse me. May I know your name and room number?
Four times might be enough. Not once or twice.
Surely, I'll have one made for you. You want a print?
Yes, me too.
I just need the problem fixed.
Yeah. There's nobody in sight.
So, want me to book the tickets again?
Oh, no. It's already February 5th.
Wouldn't you like some more chicken?
I need your help, Bob.
What a pity. Are you likely to be getting more in?
If you have interest in butterflies, you must go to the Butterfly Exhibition. Mr. Chen, owner of the private museum, has a large collection of specimen of over 1 000 species of butterflies from more than 20 countries for public display. Quite a lot of them are state-level treasures.
What're you doing here? You live in London, don't you?
Certainly. How do you like your room?
Will you show me your key card, please?
Here is my ticket and seat assignment.
I feel run down, tired. I've been having headaches almost every day. And I'm not getting as much sleep as I usually do.
I don ’ t understand.
Not really. Just watching the sports highlight on ESPN.
Really? What's he been doing?
I thought so, by the looks on your faces when you left. So why don't you come to my apartment, and we'll settle all the details.
Have you brought your receipt?
Oh. it ‘ s a case flowers. It’s very kind of you.
The waitress is walking over here with our check even as we speak.
Well, some people use a standard set of words, but many couples today write their own wedding vows.
That's all right. This machine will not damage the film.
yeah, I know. A friend in need is a friend indeed. I don't need fair-weather friends either.
Then I will buy some tomorrow.
Sure. thank you.
I go occasionally when there's a game on near home, but usually I watch it on TV.
Very Good. I'd like to do that.
yes, I can still recall the days when we were all seniors at college. I asked you whether you would go back to your hometown or not.
I'd like to buy a shirt.
Would you mind showing me how to use it?
Well, I swim and run every day.
Okay, thank you.Which way to the room?
Thank you, but I am in a terrible mood indeed.
Well, perhaps, another time.
That won't be necessary, Elvin. Look, I want to apologize for your nose. I'm sorry.
Don ’ t ever mention him. I ’ m getting over it.
Didn't he sell worthless stocks to people or something? He got arrested for that, didn't he?
First of all, I hope to spend a few years working in some famous companies to command a skill, to set a solid foundation and to build my interpersonal network. When I feel I have accumulated enough experience, I hope to own an undertaking. Of course this is up to the situation then and the opportunities the companies offer me. In the long run, I hope to be an entrepreneur.
Have you got any Chinese paintings?
OK. I'll drop you a line as soon as I get there.
Yes, I am a volunteer for the campaign.
I have a TEFL certificate.
There will be no charge at all. However you must show us the receipt. Could you sign it here, please?
Hold it, Mike. You won't accomplish anything by hollering at him, right? You worked it all up till now. Why not wait until you cool down a bit?
For four days or so.
Well, may I leave a message?
Really! You don't have some kind of Chinese ghost festival?
Yes. You know, English is my present working language. Besides, I scored very high in TOEFL.
Wake up sleepyhead.The sun is beginning to shine. What a lovely summer day!
Yes I do; here is my account number.
I know, but you deserve it.
That sounds like an excellent offer. I might take you up on that. Thank you for the wonderful invitation.
I'm sorry, Lucy. I'm afraid that I can't get up.
Yes, that's exactly it. How much tip shall we give the waiter?
Your shoes look really nice. How much did you get them for?
There are 10 frames in a bowling game. Each player is allowed to bowl two balls in each frame.
So get prepared for everything.
What didn't you like about it?
It'll be close, but we'll make it.
I think there's too much violence and it did no good to my little boy.
Hello, madam. Where to?
Yes, I see.
did you have to wear uniforms?
Economy, please. Economy class is the cheapest, right?
how could it be?
Well, it can't be helped. We'll just have to put up with it.
Yeah, more people need to take public transportation or carpool.
You must like negotiating a lot. People are saying, you are a super negotiator.
I don't know about all of that, but think about it, their business gets free publicity!
Yes, the Forrest's experience can encourage the people in trouble.
You're flattering me.
Thirty bucks a record. Or five for one hundred and twenty bucks.
Well, the stereotype in the movies is that L. A. is a frivolous town with a lot of flaky people. I guess, in the back of my mind, that's what I expected.
You are really a good citizen.
Don ’ t think about it!
Wow! So many students crowded in. More than I excepted, we are lucky to arrive in hour earlier. Or else we definedly have problems to getting good seats.
Excuse me, where is the Beijing Railway Station?
I need to file a complaint.
The blake's got divorced.
I need help with food.
OK. I'll be happy to join you.
What is that you have there?
Totally. I am saying it from the bottom of my heart! And it's obvious that he ’ s head over heels in love with you, too.
Can I be of any help?
How can I avoid injuring myself during exercise?
Hello. I'd like to open a Foreign Currency Account.
You are the leading company in the computer industry.
I see. Then let's make a shoppinglIist first before we go there.othe rise, It may take us a whole day to search for the things you need.
He ’ s the love of my life! I ’ Ve really messed this up.
I've searched everywhere. Where on earth did I put it?
I see. Well, consulting is a little different.
We needed larger premises so we moved to this greenfield site last year. It's nearer the motorway so it's better for transportation.
Hi. Today, I am the interviewer for your visa application.
I want to get a passport.
I'd like to get a BA, but I don't know where I should go.
I'm still not sure. The type with top quality, I guess. Well, which one do you recommend?
how are you doing?
Maybe you have a point.
Yes, I'd love to. Thanks again. Goodbye.
I don't really have time to learn anything new. I need to spend my time studying!
You? Do you have a carpenter's license?
I know this may seem like a silly question, but does your car have gasoline?
That's strange. I don't recognize any of the ones we had from that description. Are you sure they were in this shop?
I have the same problem. The players are really very skilful. I wish I could play that well.
I want to be a manager.
Great! It's good to see you. Goodbye!
Which one do I choose? I don ’ t want to give up, but I really feel tired.
Surely, of course.
Ok, I see. Good luck to you. You have my number. Call me when you change your mind. I can send you more detailed information about our company and jobs you might be interested in if you give me your private e-mail address.
Do you mean The Bangkok?
I can hardly wait!
Is this the Law Firm of A & B?
No, I just have this one small bag.
Well, first I would like to know if this position is still available.
Have the owners come up with a counter-offer to my offer to buy their home yet?
The boy is good for nothing.
But there's a bus every ten minutes, and you are over 1 hour late.
Yes, It’s confirmed for here in our office.
May, we are fools to hang out at noon. It's dying hot today. My skin is too weak to be exposed under the summer sun.
Mary, do you remember when we met?
I wish you good luck!
No thanks, I'm not thirsty.
Well, I think we should go now. It's getting pretty late.
Hey, man, look, what's on the wall over there?
Possibly you are now. But in case you will change your mind, please let me know.
that's very kind of you to say so. Let's try some after-dinner wines.
Oh, come on. Let's not beat a dead horse.
It seemed to be useless to study well when we were young if we examine his case.
Describe an experience when you had to work under great pressure.
I will, but please hurry.
I'd like to rent a car.
You shouldn't have told her the truth.What can we do now?
You're kidding! I can't believe you've been standing this entire time and didn't say anything.
If you go onto our website and put in your password, you can access your test results.
OK, sir. Here is your bill.That ' s $ 1000 all together.
Well, please give me a first class ticket.
You'll find out when we're in the woods and you have to go to the bathroom...
Sure. You can find everything all over the world. Let ’ s check it out online!
Really? Have you won a fortune in the lottery?
Is that true? Shall we invite him to join with us?
Sure, on the fourth floor is a recreation quarter. There are two swimming pools. One is Olympic standard size and the other one is for children. Also, there is a gymnasium for resident members only.
Ma'am, I'm sorry. The cancer ward said Mr. Smith passed away two days ago.
Good morning. I need to speak with the property manager, please.
How do you do? I ’ m Parker.
I've seen photos of UFOs in America before, but they've all looked doctored up.
Arden wants to have a trademark for our new series of products registered. But I have no idea on the registering process.
Well, let's order one for starters.
All right, sir. Please reconfirm your ticket no later than 12 noon two days before the flight ; otherwise, your reservation will automatically be canceled.
Gas and water are included.
The registration office. Did you bring your records with you?
OK. I know. But Bob wanted to change shifts with me tonight.
I got an A -. Sounds good, but none of my test scores were that high, so I don't know how I got a decent grade.
I ’ m afraid if the noise goes on, I shall have no alternative but to leave.
It's a lot better than soda.
They are in aisle 5.
800 Yuan a month.
OK. Do you want to ask the receptionist to wait for our customers at the receptionist counter before the meeting?
Yes, we have a nice room on the sixth floor.
That ’ s right. That ’ s one reason why It’s so important to protect every species.
Yes. I feel chilly and sluggish.
We still prefer French dressing.
that looks great. Just one more thing---you need some high heels with those jeans. Do you want a pair with a plain pattern or ones with a leopard print on them?
Good. Let's go now.
I think they're $ 130.
I would prefer the first one.
Stop interrupting me. Finally, the ball flew through the air and knocked out Willie's school principal, who was having a cup of coffee with Mrs. Fitzgerald.
Oh, I see, since I'm a heavy smoker. May I change my seat?
It's nice. So this is the bathroom. And that must be the bedroom.
Did they go with the proposed counter-offer?
Yes. Swimming is one of my most favorite sports, indoors or out-doors.
I ’ d like to check in please.
Ok, I will go there myself.
My permission letter?
How far is it from the Wort Street?
What's the weather like there today?
See, I just told you he hit a deer. Man, I knew you weren ’ t listening to me.
Yes, you are charged 50 cents a piece.
do you have any money?
I need to remit £ 500 to London.
All right. What time are you coming?
Well, stress is a real thing. It's not an imaginary condition.
Of course. What kind of postal savings account do you want to open?
OK. Could I have your name, please?
Retail is going upscale here? China is certainly growing more quickly than I had imagined.
Oh wow, there are a lot of sites.
not really. But it has puzzled me for a long time.
Maybe we can find a place to learn some Chinese cooking. I hear there's a place in Chinatown where you can take some courses. Are you interested?
May, I saw a beautiful cotton down coat in the shopping mail.
Hi, where can I find a cheap cashmere sweater?
Please tell me how to file things according to the concerned rules.
Ms. Montgomery? This is Richard Thomas. I ’ m sorry to bother you at home, but I ’ Ve got a bit of a problem.
He spoke evil behind his back.
I have the abilities, qualities and experience that you requested in your job advert, for example I have three years experience in designing products and I got leadership experience while serving the college student union as president.
I've got all I need.
Yeah, what's up with that?
Right, I'll contact my guarantor now and we'll come in within the next couple of days. Thanks very much for your help. Goodbye.
Oh, you dance it so well.
Here you go, Miss.
Yeah. Here's my identification card.
Would you hold on a second, please? Miss Cooper's extension is engaged.
Great, then let's go visit him. I want to give him some flowers, too, to say sorry.
I don't mind that.
Thanks a million, you are a lifesaver.
This is Lambeth Bridge. We will then loop back and cross the river again on Westminster Bridge.
Mary, this is Mr. Wu, my new Chinese friend.
Yes. I'd like to book a double room with bath.
Just a little. Has your toothache gone now?
are they window seats or aisle seats?
Let me see. It's 9
I have no idea. First time here.
Now, we are out of the town, you can drive freely!
Thank you very much, Doctor.
Please! You can do it. Their clothes are all laid out on the bed.
Which city did you like better?
Sure! That would be great! Are you good at writing or would you rather do the computer work?
Yes, please. I'd like a gin and tonic.
A dressy party would be fun!
I am a graduate of a technical university and have been employed as a technician with Company # for approximately 10 years.
But it's the style now.
I am sorry, I don't know.
Or we can send it to you. But if you would like to use it at the ATM, you'll need to wait for your PIN number.
Not bad. But we have lost a few of staff lately.
What's the side dish that you're making for dinner?
I can't seem to find my class.
Yes. I haven't been in his house for several weeks.When shall we start?
I really do like this dining set.But I just don't know. I don't know if I can do a good job with it.
Take a left.
Yes, that's the ticket! And if I need to print something there?
But I can't find anything in my size here.
I want a single room with ocean view. Do you have one?
did either one of them win an Oscar this year?
I didn't really like it all that much.
But, what do I do if I need cash?
As opposed to short and shallow?
Hello, I would like to make an appointment to look at houses.
I really think it would work.The meetings could be longer, and better organized.
You know that for a fact?
I used cassette recorders a lot when I studied English in high school.
I scalded on the hot coffee a few days ago.
Oh, never mind about that.
Do you want me to put in a good word for you?
I suppose so, but don't rush. I've got to tell you how to do it.
I love it. I really enjoy creating a meal from various ingredients and watching my friends enjoy it.It gives me a real sense of satisfaction.Do you enjoy cooking?
What was the most significant project you've worked on?
How was your appraisal with the boss?
What do you think of the traffic today?
My watch is a few minutes fast. It's about six forty, I think.
Oh, there are many Chinese antique stores. They get paintings, too. Do you get interested in them?
I'm concerned about your car.
Oh, It’s lovely. Think of the nasty weather we had last week.
OK. Is the plane on schedule?
Only 700 yuan.
Of course I can. It's a piece of cake! Believe it or not, I can do 30 push-ups a minute.
It can be solved by drawing a draft on us at 90 days sight.
You don ’ t know? The company is going to replace these old computers with the latest ones.
How much is a round-trip ticket to London?
What do you mean? These are the washing machines. Those big things over there are the dryers.
Can you pick me up from the airport?
Ok. Here you are. Is that all right now?
I know, I am sorry I ever bought it.
OK, but please hurry. I think the restaurant is closing soon.
I have never heard that men would trim their eyebrows. Are you kidding?
Yeah, we probably should.How much is normal?
Wrong. lt's not a place name, but a passionate act.
Never mind that. Get some dips as well. Get a jar of spinach and blue cheese dip and also some Tzatziki. If they have bean dip get that as well. Last but not least, get some pickles.
Could you please tell me when we get there?
Oh, I haven ’ t noticed that before. Maybe I will try next time.
Did you get a good look at his face?
Okay, lady, just to show what a gentleman I really am, I'll let you go in front of me. Now, just buy your ticket and shut your trap, will you, lady?
You will feel comfortable paying the money.
It doesn't work.
Hi, Mike, what gives?
That's exactly what I think too.
Which bus should I take?
Haven't I asked you to call if you're going to be home late?
Let's go and play volleyball.
5 days. From Feb. 13 to 18.
Ok, maybe we can order a soup and a salad from the restaurant down the street.
But actually It’s not done yet. I ’ m going to get a special pendent lamp.
To get around your difficulty, Mr. Brown, I'd suggest that you reduce your order by half. You can send in an Addi trional order later.
Yeah, I am of the same opinion.
It's a chance in a million. I hear John is interested in it.
Actually, I ’ Ve eaten soup dumplings in a lovely restaurant on Nanjing Lu. They were delicious!
Maybe you lost it before you came here. Or maybe you left it at home.
Wow! Just the idea of going back to school fills my head with pain.
Is this camera a gift for someone?
that's perfect! Would you like one, too? My treat.
I am going to go with the grilled shrimp with garlic sauce. I would like the garlic sauce on the side.
Then let's call it a day, shall we?
Where do they sell both at?
I don't think that I ever heard of that rule before. Any more rules that you would like to tell me about?
My son is alway complaining that I dump on him. He was very rude and told me to mind my own business. I cannot put up with that.
Are you kidding? Don had fun scaring you. He'd probably buy you dinner if we go back.
I can schedule you for that day and time.
Well, actually, I am thinking about living off campus.
Let me see it! It's so small!
I'm sorry I was too tired to fall asleep.
Don ’ t you think you are overreacting a little? Calling you by nicknames shouldn ’ t be so bad...
What is a back-packer?
No. I should be grateful if you could see your way to make an advance against my personal reputation. You may inspect my accounts. From my accounts you can see that I've promptly met all my obligations.
Just like the pattern dragon, right?
I do, but it still does not cover everything.
But how will you know how much I should pay? I mean, I receive my bills, not you.
So, you friend ’ s getting married on Saturday. What have you bought her as a wedding gift. I find is so hard to choose the right gift.
Have you been coming to this Laundromat long?
From your school report card, I can see you did well in every course. But our advertisement says we need an accountant with practical work experience.
No, there's no charge for those.
In the beginning of the interview, it is best that you make acknowledgments for the opportunity of the interview.
Oh, that's convenient, but... how much crime is there?
You can go online to begin the application process.
I'm going to go hiking. Do you want to join me?
We can go to a horror movie, and I'll hold your hand so you don't get scared.
Thank you. I'd like to get my laundry.
Think nothing of it.
Thank you. The change, sir.
We'll make it right with you, of course.
Good afternoon! Sit down, please.How are you?
That sounds fine. If you could give me the name and address of the dealer I'll go over there now and see what they've got.
I ’ m very sorry to hear about that. So are you all right?
Mary, please go to the door. I hear the bell.
I quit work whenever I get finished, usually about six o'clock.
I'm afraid we can't increase salary this year, money is just too title.
Hello again. Have you come to a decision?
I like current affairs programmes and documentaries, especially wildlife ones. How about you?
No, not at the moment.
Well, hang in there. In twenty years, you ’ ll fell it was well worth it!
If you try to adapt yourself to your destination's local time, you'll feel more comfortable. So please try to sleep, and have meals according to Los Angeles's time.
Yes, pretty well. I have started learning English since primary school.
Yeah, sometimes I really feel like writing a letter to the mayor.
Where shall we go on vacation this summer?
I don ’ t know. What do you think?
Room 20, Suzie Building, Beijing Road, Shenzhen, China.
Hello.Is this ABC Rent-a-car Company?
What a letdown. I wanted to experience some Mafia culture firsthand.
You need to invest in some good advertising. You have to know where your potential customers are and target them. It’s no good trying to sell computer games to older people. The market is too small.
The last company is still hiring, but not recent graduates.
Put on a sweater! I ’ m not gonna let you run up my heating bill just because It’s a bit chilly.
Yes. What time does it start and do you want to meet me there?
Good afternoon.British Airline.Is there any thing I can do for you?
I think otherwise. Even though the animation was technically strong, and as you say, the score and songs performed by Elton John were great, the film lacks a certain originality ; it lacked heart. And I would dare to say, it was too predictable.
I hope she ’ ll recover soon.
Then we will be in a position to arrange for a loan from our bank. You know we exports would like to have our investments returned as early as possible.
Let's meet tonight at the Thai restaurant at about 5.
Steven, what's the expense of moving house?
How about taking a walk in the park?
Oh, I ’ m sorry. But this isn ’ t a no-smoker, is it? I mean would you mind if I smoke here?
How do I sign up?
I need job security.
Shall I come in and collect it?
What about side effects from that medication?
We need a new filing cabinet in the office. Could you go downtown with me after lunch?
There! How does it look? Tell me if I've got it straight.
How long will it take if I walk?
That's something you need to overcome. Men should make the first move as most girls prefer being chased.
I hear you are moving to Dalian.
Either way is good for me.
I'll get it for you right now.
it's got to be almost a year now.
That's fine. Let me get your meat.
Welcome to this corporation, Mr. White. Won ’ t you please sit down?
You're right, I'll change it. How about the last part?
The stock exchange where I worked was too small My further promotion was impossible. I am able of more responsibilities, so I decided to leave.
Well, OK. you are always right.
Really! What's the matter with him?
Haven't you met yet?
Wait a minute, I will bring you some juice.
Hello, this is John. I want to speak to Linda.
I ’ m calling from Bell Canada. We are currently offering a great deal on long distance calling, only $ 17 a month. With this plan you get 500 minutes of long distance calls each month without any additional charges.
What kind of cottons are they? May I see your list? Ah, machine prints.
Yes. I moved here last week.
What kind of place shall we rent?
I had to make it quick.
I never eat breakfast though.
Hello. Can I help you, ma'am?
This path leads to the cave. Can we look inside the cave?
okay. Nope, it's a replay of yesterday's soccer match between Brazil and Spain.
Could you tell me something about safety deposit box rental, please? I need somewhere safe to keep some insurance documents ; I just simply don't feel comfortable keeping them at home or in the office.
We are sincere to make business with you, but the difference between your counter-offer and our price is too great.
Tommy played truant today. His teacher called me this morning.
What else have you got?
maybe you have a point. How about having a party on a Friday afternoon? We'll stop early, order some pizza, and serve drinks. There'll be music but no band. Having the party in the office will make
You can find one at the ticket office.
Yes, but I doubt if I get it. I've never got it.
What's the bonus like at your company?
This is Sun, and I interviewed with you yesterday.
Country code is 81, area code 138, and the number is 846-8972.
Yes, so it really doesn't matter who offers the money.The paper itself is profitable.
It runs every ten minutes. Oh, here comes the bus.
I have nausea, and I am dizzy. Also I have a abdominal pain.
If you would like me to, I could help you with that.
Sure. What kind of toast do you like?
I love you home made apple pie. It’s delicious. Can I have another glass of lemonade as well?
Oh, I understand. I can't say I'm a big fan. I'm from China, and football doesn't have a really big following over there.
I can ’ t thank you enough. I ’ m really touched. I don ’ t know what to say.
Hello. I ’ m calling about the one bedroom in Lincoln Park. Could I take a look at it? Yes. Tonight at six is fine. Thanks.
Thank you. Then I think it's time for us to sign a letter of intent.
Stupid girl, making me spend so much money, now I have to get it from the ATM...
Do you feel all right?
Yes, it's most irritating.
If your flight is leaving so early, I can take you to the airport and see you off. I'll still be able to make it into the office by 9.
Not really. I watched television for an hour.
PCC is great!
You seem to be in a hurry.
I already have.
Well. What's this 138 dollars charge then?
Let me introduce myself, by the way. My name's Charies Ford.
And which side of the business do you work in?
I'd like to confirm a reservation, please.My name is Wang Lin. My flight is KF98.
Gotcha, OK. Here they are.
I graduated from Tianjin College of Commerce.
Just some souvenirs.
Excuse me, are there any more shopping carts?
Yes. I ’ Ve always likes Indian and thai food, so I ’ Ve been trying to make dishes from those countries. I ’ m pretty good at making curries now, but I still need practice at making thai food.
OK. I promise. Thank you, Mom.
Merry Christmas, Linda!
If it was sunning all year round there would be drought.you probably would not like it either.
What! ? It'll be a miracle if we're ready by the end of the month! Is she crazy?
I think the Inspection Bureau at your end, when effecting inspection, only selected a few package at random these happened to be up to the standard. The part that was not dried properly, most probably, escaped their attention. As the amount in question is only 20 % of the whole shipment, I think it is only reasonable that you should compensate us for the loss.
Yeah, really, jane and ted always have great parties.
What's this then?
I feel I really stupid.
Besides, remember to make acknowledgments through an E-mail or a call.
Do you know what kind you want to open?
You can say that again. The government must open It’s eyes to the fact.
Oh, the ink is spilled on the desk.
Do you have the bank card in Japan?
Save it until you've served dishes.
Teachers are just directors who give scope to the students ' initiative and creativeness, instead of taking their rights away from speaking.
Do you already know how to play an instrument?
That ‘ ll be ninety-five cents in all.
Mike? How can you trust him to help us?
Yes, how do you know?
Yes, after my graduation, I worked in a trade company in Macao for one year.
Everything is OK. The commission is 50 yuan.
You don ’ t believe that? Everyone interprets the Bible in a different way. To some people, the Gospel 5 is a source of much comfort.
But it's just a bar. There's no danger.You shouldn't be so homophobic.
I'm not a VIP.
Have you got a headache?
Oh, God! I didn't touch anybody. How can I commit a foul?
I know a couple who divorced a week after getting married.
Tell me what size you want and I'll order the wood.
we can take the train, that will be faster. I'll book the tickets tomorrow morning.
I consider the hero's acting is inferior to that of the heroine's. don't you agree?
Then why didn ’ t you talk to me?
That is a long line.
Daniel wants to go to the aquarium. While Mom wants to visit the Summer Palace.
Oh, don't worry about that here. There are security guards on duty 24 hours a day and they patrol all over the neighborhood. You know, they are all very strong.
I know. I am sorry that I yelled at you.
Hello. I'm Duty Manager today ; you wanted to speak to me?
Live chicken? Thanks, but no thanks. So... tell me about bargaining. How can I do it like a local?
I'd like porcelain.
Well, we'll give you our decision in a couple of days. It's a pleasure to talk to you, Mr. Liu.
Yes, but it's very stressful.
So why did you decide to resign?
Ok but how will we know if you are going to be late?
They are. I think I'm going to get a hat too.
May I make a reservation?
Tom, we are in the restaurant now!
Oh, I wish I didn ’ t have so much to carry.
Could you help me?
Sure.Please sign your name here... and here.
You are speaking with Ryan. How can I help you?
Well, they are very nice you know.
Linda, it's really late. Let's call it a day.
Very well too, is there anything I can do for you?
yes, everyone on the sales floor has to wear one. They're supposed to make us look more professional.
But is it possible that travelers could be hit by meteors?
I thought she would marry a fortune.
Let me check my diary. Er. I'm afraid I can't make Tuesday. I've got to go to Beijing for a conference. I'll come back on Thursday.
At lease they stayed the same. That's better than dropping.
I'm glad you like it. The bell is on the bedside. Just ring if you want anything. The room attendant speaks a little English. So I don't think you'll have any trouble.
Sounds like a plan.
This computer isn't working properly.
That's great. Did you start dating right after you met, or did you become friends first?
I'm still feeling under the weather.
Yes. Fortunately, I had my cell with me this morning. I called the police as I was running to get people to come to help.
I think he was locked in it.
What time do the special rates apply?
don ’ t worry about that. It’s probably of the stress you ’ Ve been under. Just take some aspirin. Combined with the stronger cough medicine, it will make you feel very tired. You shouldn ’ t work or use an
Most of them live in the city. We provide free commuter buses for the workers. Besides, we built the dormitory building for the workers on night shift.
Oh, fine. Hey, why don't we grab a bite to eat and do some catching up?
No, that ’ s all right. Paula. Why don ’ t you get something to eat, and I ’ ll see you this afternoon.
Have you called to inquire about the positions?
I ’ m worrying about the children. After all this is the first time they have been out without us.
I tell ya, when I got the invite, it really threw me for a loop. You've done a complete 180.
Well, I don't want it then. Can I move to another pump?
Valerie! Hi! Wow how are you? It’s been such a long time!
A driver died instantly. The other one was badly hurt. A poor boy called Peter was killed in the accident too.
I'll have a go.
Forget it! It was a bitter pill for me to swallow.
Good idea. The more people you ask, the better your chances are.
I like ice cream too much though.
Nice to meet you! My name is Peter Smith.
What ’ s this form for?
Did you get any?
How much do you want us to pay you?
I think we need to buy some baits and borrow some fish poles first.
All right. I want to take a shower first, I ’ m exhausted.
So he is. But, why not try to help him to become stronger?
How much will it hurt?
What reasons do westerners drink for?
Civil Law. Because it is broad and profound, and furthermore, it best reflects the spirits of fairness and equality.
Bob, put on your shoes, your feet are really smelly.
But the Reds keep a weak midfield. I think Juventas of Italian Series A have always maintained a very formidable midfield. It is the main source of its strength.
She's not a house-cat. She stays outside most of the time.
Well, I ’ ll be glad to help you out. I can come out anytime on Tuesday or Thursday of next week.
You just simply follow the instructions on the screen. You can inquire about your account information and use the self-service payment function.
Ok. I will reply to you as soon as possible.
I'll go get it really quick.
I just moved into my apartment, and the plumbing is not working.
Let ’ s have a try.
English weather is even more predictable than I had previously thought.
I ’ m looking for a sweater.
Well, if you say so. Personally speaking, I ’ d rather die of thirst than drink champagne.
The whole stadium is to be finished this June.
( 10 minutes later. ) Hi. Here are completed forms.
Yes, in a monkey suit. It's adorable!
Do you smell the sweet scent?
Jane. Nice to meet you.
OK. This machine needs you to use that change machine first to get correct change.
I'm doing well. How about you?
I almost can't live without messages, from which I learn about weather forecasts and stock quotations.
Take this web page for example. Press the keys “ control ” and “ d ” together. Click on “ favourites ” at the top of the screen. There you are. It has been added to you favourites list. If you click it, you will automatically go to that web page again.
Is this Mr David Richton?
Excellent. Do you serve breakfast in the hotel?
I felt as if I had been in a different world.
You would be using mainly English in this job. Do you think you could manage?
I wonder if you can cook things this good.
congratulations! I had no idea.
Jim. I heard you got a promotion!
Tomorrow is Christmas and I haven ’ t bought my mom anything! I ’ m such a bad son!
Will we be there soon?
Did you catch anything?
The color and style are consistent with the sample. Great!
Yes sir, one moment please. here is the check.
I ’ m glad you could make it.
Well, it's hard to say. For the fields and rivers, winter is a relaxing season, but for farmers, I think they might take a rest physically, but mentally they are still busy thinking, planning and calculating for the working of the next year.
that's a lot of cooking. You must save a lot of money by eating at home so much.
There is no hot water, the bedroom has a broken window, and there are rats in the kitchen.
Do you need anything else, sir?
And humility. I would have liked to meet him personally.
Hi, Jenny. You look like you are in a hurry to somewhere. Where are you going?
you could say so. I'll work hard in that company and try to understand as much as possible about how to run an enterprise.
Let me see... set the timer first and push the button, oh, come here.
All these countries in two weeks?
I know, but... Hey, Stanley's here! I've been wanting to hear him sing all night.
Yes, I've just married.
He must be mad! Nick is a loan shark.
That ’ s great. Where did you stay?
If it's any good, I'll buy a copy when it comes out in the pocket edition.
The bourbon is 15 dollars plus 10 % service charge. So the total is 16.5 dollars.
That's too bad. What happened?
Even if an item is on sale?
I am really thirsty.
No, have a nice day!
It's important to do proper exercises.
So how does it work? How were you able to make money with the marathon?
This is James Hong calling from Lincoln Bank.
What good sunshine! Let's go and get a suntan on the balcony.
You got drunk, and you were hilarious. Lighten up.
I just got off the phone with my boyfriend. He is always getting upset and losing his temper over nothing. It’s so hard to talk to him at times.
You always have a chip on your shoulder.
Well, I last had a haircut eight weeks ago. So my hair is pretty long.But I want the same style.
That's absolutely wrong! I was out exploring the city Monday night.
Ok, honey, time to take down the Christmas tree.
A little, I wish I could do that.
How do you normally handle criticism?
You should consider the size and interests of your audience. In other words, who is listening, and what do they want to hear... you can put together a PPT with some graphics and animations that will catch people's attention, but be careful not to go overboard.
So your mom can stop nagging you now.
Within two weeks, because the new employees need to receive induction training.
If you don't mind, you can use my camera and leave your address with me so I can send you the photos later.
The baked fish in tomato sauce is pretty good.
Fine, I will begin a search for the perfect home for you. I will call you in a few days.
Sounds pretty fun. I'll come out and join you next time.
Thank you for that, and in return, here's your receipt.
I got major FOMO from missing that scientists.
it sounds interesting, but I am not a big fan of TV shows. They're time consuming and don't have much depth.
that sure didn't last long!
It certainly was! So, what are you going to do with your windfall?
Do you have any fresh baked donuts for sale yet?
What would you like to know, Mr. Green?
You just need a little more practice.
All right. We'll get in touch with our producers and see what they have to say.
Well, they're on sale today for only $ 1 each.
I wanted to know if that apartment on Main Street is still for rent.
I can't forget about this when next time.
Hey, what are you doing here?
We need to find a good realtor.
Is there a reason why you're trying to get off the phone so fast?
No, of course not. You have to put soap in. Did you bring your soap?
If I were him, I wouldn'tbrazen it outby asking my parents for money.
Can you enlarge the picture?
Yes, we do, we also have this same style in dark blue and red.
Hello Mike! Would you like a drink?
Are you going to buy a bicycle?
Weren ’ t you frightened?
Is there a sofa in the living room?
That, My Heart Will Go On. It warms my heart. you know, JanetJackson, Shanna Twain and Celine Dion are so very different.
My vote is personal.
I'm going to do that as soon as possible.
yes, but I'd like to have a chance at job advancement.
Maurice Richard has the puck now, and passes it to the center. He shoots! Wow what a save by the goalie!
My name is Bill. How are your lessons going?
Thanks for your understanding. Do you want to make another appointment?
But you taught children, yes?
You hit the nail right on the head.
Of course. This is my card. See you then.
I scheduled a delivery for tomorrow.
What is the most enjoyable part about your job?
I'm not. I get a stomachache just thinking about it.
Yes, I can.
It is very hard, you know.
We haven't. Hurry up!
Yelling doesn't do any good.
12,000 yuan a year, but you can't have visitors live in it.
Of course, for these sites, you have to pay a membership fee. But all in all, it is more serious and professional. The chance of meeting a good and serious person who does not play games is higher.
I think it had direct impact on my way of thinking. I learned to look at people and things from an overall perspective. In that case, I am not easy to be edgy.
Do you open all your IM tools whenever you're using a computer?
What kind of clients do you prefer?
Which floor are we on now?
This is delicious! The combination of sour and spicy is really interesting! I could have this everyday!
No, I haven ’ t got any plans.
Only $ 29.95? I'll buy it, of course.
Have you read all these crazy things that are going on around the world?
Oh, you do? You certainly have a large selection.
No, not all summer. Just for six weeks.
This is Mary.Can I speak to Anne please?
We started dating right away.
Just a beer, please.
I trust you.
Why do you ask?
I'm going to the fair now.if any one looks for me. ask them to call the fair.
Excuse me, do the buses stop here?
That ’ s a good idea. Put your keys in the ignition, start it up, put the car in reserve, wait for the road to be clear, and then back out of the driveway.
Now you have been booked, Ms. Jones. The flight leaves at 16:45, and your arrival in Sydney will be at 9:00 a. m., local time. The flight number is NWA 476.
You don't look well at all. Are you sick?
I cannot belive that. It must be cooked up by someone.
Okay... A pint of Heineken and and half a pint of bud for table six! And what about some appetizers?
Sounds good. What do we need to bring?
that ’ s true. I really should go home and prepare for the next test, but I ’ m feeling tired.
Hey, let's go out and grab a couple of beers tonight!
I ’ Ve got 30 cousins on my mom ’ s side and 10 cousins on my dad ’ s side.
You have to fill out this form, ma'am.
Let's try it!
Good. I'll take it right now, if possible.
Good bye then, and keep in touch.
Can I list my interests next?
Well, I ’ m doing okay. And how about yourself?
Would you tell me the rate per day for depositing my bag?
Well, you'll see.
She missed us and asked when we would go back home.
I don't want to lose all my money.
That's wonderful!
No, I'm full. My stomach isn't growling at me any more.
Ok, someone will be there by 12:15.
No, our check-out time will still be 8: 30 tomorrow.
She's getting coupons from her desk.
It is my pleasure to see you off.
Oh, really? Isn't this spot C408?
But he took some newspaper away without paying.
what did you argue about?
did you go to a public school or a private school?
That's disappointing. I was really looking forward to it.
What material is it made of?
I'll try to change one to a different day.
I'm in the kitchen... let yourself in!
I'm totally vibing with this the concert.
My holiday is only six weeks, but I think my brother and his family would take it for the other two weeks. Is the house in good condition?
The ref calls the players for the kick off, and here we go! Ecuador quickly passes the ball to the midfield, but, oath, It’s out of bounds.
Could I check out this book?
It's hard to tear myself away from your friendly people and your ancient country, but nothing lasts for ever. I have to go back home this time, but I'm sure I'll return very soon.
It's a bit difficult to find vegetarian friendly restaurants sometimes, but since more and more people are vegetarians or vegans nowadays, it's getting a bit less difficult.
Really? They didn't give you one with your ticket?
What does that sign mean?
I can bet the farm that you will regret about your decision. You cannot find a better one.
Thank you for reminding me. Well, please give me a glass of brandy and I will pay for it.
That was quick thinking.
Are you going to the annual party? I can give you a ride if you need one.
From Video TV.
Hi. This is a Receptionist Desk. How can I help you?
I honestly couldn't see it because of the bushes growing over it.
I think I've caught a cold. Now I'm aching all over.
No kidding. We've got to come up with two completely different sales pitches to suit the needs of each groups.
Who was the professor?
The food station was as crowded as usual. I waited for 20 minutes for my sandwich, and when I finally got it the chicken was underdone.
Thank you.It ' s very kind of you.
Carol said that she would spend some time checking that everyone is up-to-date with their work.
I take care of the letters. I may read, sort out and organize incoming mails.
Em, as I have said, I'm diligent and industrious. On the other hand, sometimes I'm too hard-working and I put myself under too much pressure to make things perfect.
That's right. You have learned a lot, haven't you?
Sorry to hear that.
Wonderful! I'll start packing our suitcases.
I know, but I've done that so Ay times. It's getting old. The leading guy is always the same macho A.
why are you in such a good mood today?
What other things do I need to know?
Several.Two good examples are Seattle, in the state of Washington, and Portland, Oregon.
Mechwarrior is such a good game. The graphics are awesome!
Fine. And you?
Brazil calls for a time out and we ’ ll be right back, after a short commercial break.
No, who won?
Would you please have a look at the table? I think this one fits you.
Who wrote it?
The pleasure is mine. It's been nice talking with you. Goodbye.
Thank you all for coming to our monthly staff correlation meeting. Today we have a lot of new things to introduce to you all, there will be a lot of changes in company policy to accommodate better employee welfare.
That's $ 400 and we will visit 4 cities.
No, have they have another fight?
The problem is that there always a large number of people who eat that kind of stuff up.
Most starts with dinner, but then it gets out of hand. Besides, haven't you asked out every woman in the entire office?
I've never seen anything like it.
Is that the only medication I need to take?
May be some other time.
Hello, I want to apply for the position of an usher in your restaurant.
Thank you... Excuse me, sir. You forgot to fill in your visa number.
I ’ Ve received some special training in typing, shorthand and operating a fax machine, etc.. I ’ m experienced in IBM-PC. I can operate familiarly a word-processor, a fax machine, a photo and other office equipment.
Also several copies of your one-inch color photos.
There ’ s a lot more physical contact in rugby, isn ’ t there?
Well, if you put it this way, I'll have to comply. When shall we sign the contract, Mrs. Brown?
It’s about an hour ’ s drive.
Since he doesn ’ t have a son, he hopes that one of the girls will marry a wealthy man. That way, all of his daughters will be cared for.
Now which child is this?
Do you think the bad weather will last long?
Sure. How many would you like?
How would you like to pay?
Oh, you mean kikois.
Good evening, sir. I understand that you have been robbed.
Shall I take a photo of you?
Good luck with that.
The railway station? Just go down this street and turn left at the second corner. The station is at the end of that street.
Hopefully he will use the same exam, cause Im going to spend most of my time studying the civil war. It is a huge section and that is what he lectured the most on in class.
I have met a beautiful girl.
The doctor has examined your current situation. Since you are recovering so well, you will be discharged tomorrow.
I was thinking about it, but I'm never able to keep my New Year's resolution. Last year for example I joined a gym and only went twice.
No, not that much. Now, yes, that's fine.
The movie starts at eight o ’ clock, so we have plenty of time to eat and get ready.
A laptop is a type of computer that you can carry with you. Do you understand?
No, not yet. Is it good?
Yes, two of my cousins live here and my aunt and uncle live about 30 miles from here.
Well please, why don't you go ahead of me in line? I'm in no hurry.
Have you turned on the air-conditioner?
I am afraid the sales are over now, madam. And you know we all sold out of the saucepans.
OK. Is it possible to leave my luggage here until I'm ready to leave this afternoon? I'd like to say goodbye to some of my friends.
yes, his marriage to Katie is actually quite scandalous.
I propose a toast to your pleasant tour in China.
We broke up.
David, what have you been up to lately?
what's wrong?
No, make the second one with ham, pineapple and green peppers. Oh, and make it thin crust.
W-Y-A-T-T, Mark Wyatt.
Yes, our application procedures have speeded up since we started using the new fast-track system.
The rent is $ 1500 per month.
Yes, please. That's a fantastic idea. Which gate do I need to go to?
Oh I remember, I cut terrible calls, and you didn't say anything about it.
You ’ re not going to believe what happened today. You ’ Ve got to promise to keep it to yourself.
She's a Persian. She has papers and everything. Not like a street dog.
But the exam is not as simple as you may imagine. We have to stay up late.
Alright. There's a spot open at the far end of the lot. Here's your parking stub.
Not today. Thanks though.
The order was in good shape when it left out factory.
No, she ’ s not as clever as me.
The plumbing seems OK, too.
Well, there was a sign that said “ Buy now for seventy. ”
Do you know where they will go on their honeymoon?
Then, I ’ d like some eggs and bread for breakfast instead.
Sure. This brand is supposed to be very good, but they're expensive. Those are new products. They come in several colors and sizes. There is also hard, soft, and medium.
Welcome to my shop next time.
Which air conditioner?
Excuse me. I'm looking for Bluemingdails. Could you tell me how to get there?
how did you get that burn again?
I completely forgot about your cat allergy. I took care of a cat for my friend here a few days ago. Oh no. we'd better go to the doctor to get some medicine. Let's go.
No, I think I didn't like your method.
All right... Tilt your head to the right, please.
The museums are excellent. And the shopping! Well! I'm sure you'll spend a lot of money there.
Why do you really go to church?
Sorry. This is 321-9887.
They ’ re all doing fine. Let me show you some of their pictures.
Here is the Grand Central Station.
That means that 10.000 pounds will buy me 18.500 dollars.
Hello, I'm looking for a shop that sells inexpensive cashmere sweaters.
Yes, I have, I tried once when I visited your country last year, I think they were very tasty.Can you cook them?
That's a very good hint.
Was it love at first sight? Did you fall in love with her the first time you met her?
But your company is huge. Can't they afford to pay the staff decent wages?
Ok, thanks, David. You ’ Ve helped me a lot.
No.But it's a bit strange today.
You're pretty lucky actually, today is higher than yesterday. It's 824. 71 RIB for 100 USD.
That ’ s Charles.
So far we have $ 2,800, what else?
You are so lucky! Send me a postcard!
I believe that it's on Fair Oaks and Orange Grove.
It's about two or there blocks away from here.
Yes, I have a list of extensions.
Oh, how long?
Of course, pick up the receiver, hit a button and listen for a tone. Are you hearing it?
Well, right now, we can't afford internet use in the rooms. But you can go to the web bar in our hotel. It's on the 12 floor.
Wow! Nobody told me about that. Won't the relaxed dress code damage the company image?
That ’ s good to hear. She is usually full of vein and vigor.
I'd like a hamburger with lettuce and tomato.
I'm really pleased with it. Thanks.
When's the first stop?
Thank you, and I'm sorry for the change of plans.
Hi, Mr. Smith. I ’ m Dr. Hawkins. Why are you here today?
I've just visited your showroom. You surely get a lot of fancy bedsheets. I like them very much.
Try to keep cool. It's not an easy take.
well, it could be me too. But I am not too worried. This place is suffocating me with this boss being such a hard-ass and colleagues who barely know how to get dressed in the morning. It would almost b
Short on both sides. Not so much in the middle.
I saw a man come in with a gun.
Do you have any difficulties in doing business in China? You know the Chinese economic legislation is still incomplete?
Perfect! I like this one.
OK! 2 Chi round. Try this one. Maybe it's of your size.
Sure. My name is Anderson. My address is 109 Ferguson East, Holton. And my phone number is 309 789 1267.
That class is from ten to twelve on Monday and Wednesday.
Darling, I have news for you. Bobby and his wife, Evelyn, are going to have a baby soon.
This is Bill Burton from Milford Insurance, I'm calling in regards to our meeting next Tuesday.
Are you positive?
We'll see.
Alright. What is that you want to tell me?
It’s only seven miles. We turn left to join the motorway and drive south.
First, you need a shampoo, it makes it easier for your hair to be dyed. Let's down your hair in the water, you hair will be fairly clean that way.
You have to pay tax for this camera.
Three. And bring four bell peppers.
Yup, I'm never trusting you with the bus schedules again.
What's the departure time?
no, but I ’ m planning on visiting Australia and New Zealand soon. I ’ Ve heard that they are beautiful countries. Which is the most beautiful country you ’ Ve been to?
Thank you, have a good day.
I would like to make a collect call to Taipei, Taiwan, please.
Can I take your drink order?
I see. And what kind of feeling do you want to create for your kitchen?
Excuse me. I bought the CD here two days ago. It's scratched, and doesn't play properly.
Where is this Sons located?
It's easy. You only have to search the internet in order to get the information you're looking for.
I really like the record you lent me the other day.
No, I don ’ t think so. I know Mary. Once she makes a decision, she won ’ t change her mind.
No, sir. Nothing except my personal belongings, such as clothes, notebooks and some gifts.
Let me see... I am sorry the tables you want are booked.
That's a relief.
I'll take it. Please set the watch for me.
I think they are in a better position in those sports that demand a high degree of intensity, speed and explosive force like swimming, field games, etc.
Pleased to meet you, too, Shirley. So, what do you do?
Yes, I'll have another cocktail.
Certainly, please have a seat and roll up your left sleeve.
I never watch foreign films. They're too boring.
Thank you, ma'am. It's been a pleasure doing business with you.
Can it work now?
Is that the large, white building?
It says here that you graduated from Beijing Normal University with a major in English Language and Literature.
Yeah, you are right. Tell me your normal diet.
What do you need to take it for?
I think you should have a try someday. Maybe you'll change your mind.
Madison Suites, how may I help you?
Please come in, Steven.
I ’ Ve been to all of them.
I was anxious to find out what the sellers had to say about my counter-offer.
Just me. I'm traveling alone.
What ever you say?
How can I ever thank you? I owe you a big favor.
That's right. Try it on.
But I think time can change everything.
We like your product, and are interested in placing an order with you as soon as possible.
Ok. I understand that we basically work from 8 thirty to 5 thirty with an hour-long lunch break from 12 to 1, right?
"I understand your feeling. When someone is feeling at loose ends, we may show mercy on him. This is what we call the "" milk of human kindness ""."
Don't you wanna get it fixed now?
Wait a moment. Here you are.
I am having some trouble. How do you use this printer?
I got major FOMO from missing that the meal.
Money is no object.
No problem. That can be done. I understand you'll ship the goods before the end of May?
Why not a ring?
It departs at 12:10 and arrives at 15:10 next day.
Could you recall when and where you lost it?
You like it, but it's getting to be a handicap for you.
It's in the hall on the first floor.
Really. It's worth listening to and enjoying.
Yeah! Remember that one about putting light bulbs in your mouth?
Can you give me the specifics?
how far away is it from the campus?
And I want to change 4000 Yuan.
Our selection of stereo systems with turntables is somewhat limited, but we do have this system over here.
Maybe the situation is too urgent.
Excuse me. Can you take me to the airport?
Yes, because of fewer people.
I had a look yesterday. I found some exhibits are fine in quality and beautiful in design. The exhibition has successfully displayed to me what your corporation handles. I have gone over the catalogue and the pamphlets enclosed in your last letter. I have got some idea of your exports. I am interested in your silk blouses.
Here's my John Hancock.
What else can we do to protect the environment?
What's the best time to call you, then?
Just in Beijing, people consume 300,000 pieces of gum every day.
Yes, and it's great. What are the events at the sports meeting?
Good afternoon, madam. May I help you?
Are you ready for the big competition today, Todd? The winner gets two tickets to the Sydney Olympics!
Oh, we only take care of mail. For parcels, you can go to the next window.
This is the rush hour.
I am not sure, sir. Generally we can, but look at the traffic. It's the rush hour.
No, thank you.Please tell him to phone me when he comes back.
Is there anything on sale today?
Well, you are lucky to have such a considerate husband. Mine hasn't brought me a single rose since we married.
I ’ m sure they will.
How much will our order from your factory be?
there are trying times for everyone. What do you propose?
Thanks a lot. We arrived at Kaohsiung International Airport.
No, my wife doesn ’ t like traveling. We haven ’ t been traveling for more than ten years. The first time we traveled together was in 1978 when we just got married. We spent our honeymoon in the Alps.
I quite agree with you.See the woman there? I dare say she hasn't got any eyes. How could she match the mauve gown with the green handbag? And all that jewelry!
How long can I keep these books?
What's the temperature today?
wonderful! I'll start packing our suitcases.
Yeah. I woke up this morning feeling really nauseous. I threw up like five times.
He'll be right with you.
My mother is a housewife.
Yes, I can. Would you still like to have both of these classes?
how about drinking soda?
I voted for him.
Thank you very much, Your Honor.
Yes. I've been through them and there's a problem, a rather major discrepancy actually. You see? It should be KN509.
At least I enjoy my lunch! What's in your bag?
How about Bellevue? It's pretty close.
I read in the poster that you're looking for a student to work as a language assistant.
So the rate is variable? OK, that's fine. How about the frequency of repayment?
Wow, I didn ’ t know that religion had played such an important role in Harvard history.
at least you didn't waste time thinking about what you were going to wear every day!
Of course in English, they learn English on Mars too.
Are you familiar with the office management?
Would you prefer some other time?
The best opportunity is called callous, which is an Internet-based job placement service that you can make use of.
Sure. Just let us know before your lease expires.
Well, working in an editorial office may not be exciting enough for you. What do you think?
My mother always did it.
Thank you. It has been handed down in my family for three generations.
It's a really useful piece of equipment. It's for smoothing rough edges. Here let me show you how it works. It's very simple to operate.
Yes, he does. But i give it to you again. 5264453 6
Why not fifty or one-hundred dollars?
Here is 40 dollars.Keep the change, please.
How often do you meet?
Yes! The first time I saw her I knew we would fall in love.
I mean very short, shorter than it is now.
Are you finished?
What was that again?
I won $ 200 to spend on any books of my choice.
Really? In my eyes It’s normal, as an old man, to be thin is better than to be fat.
After watching my diet, what else should I do?
What are you best at?
Yeah, though I don't think her acting skills are that great.
Well, if you don't have any questions, shall we get started? If you'll follow me, first I'll take you to the site of our semi-conductor system...
Good, well we can discuss this more then, but I think the figures are looking very good for this quarter.
She is a grow-up. She can make her own decision.
OK, I'll try. I'll call you again if that doesn't work.
Oh yes-five days a week. You have to visit customers all over the territory.
To tell you the truth, it was completely accidental.
OK, just ignore him. I've noticed there are lots of exercise facilities in our community. After dinner you can go there for a walk with your family!
If you haven't gotten it yet, then you should probably take that up with your post office.
Don't be silly! I know how to use knives and forks.
Is your great uncle Rick going to be there? He is really funny.
Hi, Becky, what's up?
For the job.
You need fruit and lilies. Am I right?
Oh, I don ’ t know... It’s hard to find the right nanny. You have to consider her previous work experience, the responsibilities you give her, and how she interacts with the kids. I would love to have
Where do you live?
I don't know him.
We are busy in preparing for the train.Would you please buy us some fruit?
Follow me. All the things you need as a woman are in aisles 10 and 11. This section is usually near the medicine section in any supermarket.
I like it here at PCC.
It is stupid to say so.
Yes, except the personal mail. And I also need to prepare the materials for posting and check the e-mail box regularly.
You bet it.
Excuse me? Let's try to work this out, okay?
Oh. That ’ s really annoying when seeing a film.
The instructions for the copier are posted on it.
I ’ d like to know more about it.
I hear scientists in the US have discovered a new AIDS vaccine.
Mr. Liu is available at 2:15 today. Will that work for you?
OK, that's absolutely fine. I will need to see some credentials before we can get started. Do you have the notification of admission letter from your university, your passport and your visa with you?
Sure. A UFO is just a space vehicle from another planet. If you think about it, our space shuttles are UFOs.
But the most of the transoceanic cargo transportation is still carried by boat.
Your achievement is obvious to all.
I'm going to Britain.
Well, let's go over there and put a blanket on the lawn.
OK. I'll try a Pinto. I want to rent a car for one week.
Absolutely! If you come to our class, I am sure you will like him.
But I can't move the cursor at all. My screen is frozen. What should I do?
Hello, thank you for calling Bradford and Sons. This is Tracy speaking, How may I help you?
No, I don't like that place.Why don't we try the garage Martin recommended?
You have drank dozens of cups. You are bound to get a bay window.
So the company decided to cancel your trip to Hong Kong?
OK, well, what did you want to see me about?
It’s all my faults. I forget where I put it.
If you decide to put a limit on the amount of tv they can watch, remember to have something else for them to do. If you don ’ t, they ’ ll get bored and misbehave.
This is right. There is no doubt in my mind.
I can just enter the amount using the keys, right?
Yes, I'm used to being on my own.
I do back flips at the pool all the time.
so, what ’ s new in the kitchen? That refrigerator is new, isn ’ t it?
Daniel, have you ever heard about the wildlife sanctuary?
Tom, You're back, come in please.How are you?
Are you looking to get a steel-string or a classical?
But It’s very convenient for you to walk to work.
Well, since there are some small square tables, could we put two tables together?
I see. You've caught a bad cold. I'll give you a prescription.
I have a reservation. My name is John Sandals.
I hate balloons.
Shame on you. I was saving them for your brother.
Because I was quite interested in Economics then.
Sometimes, It’s hard to know who belongs in each section of the museum!
Vince wants us to have everything debugged and ready to go by the end of the month.
The stomach and intestines!
Can ’ t you stay a little longer?
Don't worry, we ’ ll find someone eventually!
I really feel sorry for that rhumba boy if he ever identifies himself.
Sure, since I came back from the US, I've been keeping the habit of blogging, simply to share my personal insights on any topic I like.
Excuse me, do you know the shortcut to the Lincoln park?
I wouldn't count on it.
It's snowing heavily.
Five.My father, mother, brother, sister-in-law and me.
Usually about two month.
That ’ s a little complicated. You ’ ll get to know it when you are acquainted with the U. S. history later on. Religion was and is a part of American people ’ s life. Guess what? Even Harvard University, which is a highly academic institution, is in a sense the product of religion.
Sometime next month.
The Northern Line is what you want.
Don't worry about money. I'll treat you tonight.
No. I need to borrow $ 50.
He can speak English, too.
You can stay out till 10 p. m.
Can I trouble you for some change?
No. No need for admission. I'll give the baby analgia nose drops to bring down the temperature first. Then I will give you a prescription. The pink tablets are used for his fever. When his temperature is over 38 ° C, give him one tablet. The other tablets are sedatives for his convulsions. The white liquid is for the cold. Give the baby plenty of water to drink.
Did you hear who won the election?
Oh, that's great. It sounds like you're really happy with your move.
Then do you think that life is arranged by something above us.
How can I join it?
Ok, you're really all eyes when it comes to talking about food, aren't you?
Everything is okay?
But I love wearing T-shirts and jeans.
Yes, ma'ma. May I help you with your bags?
hey, Jimmy, you've been sitting in front of the TV all day. Anything interesting on TV?
Oh, but Chinese food is so delicious. I wish I knew how to cook Chinese food. Do you follow recipes?
No, you are just on time. We haven ’ t really started yet.
I honestly didn't know.
Thank you.But I will call her later
Good morning, John. Have you finished reading the novel by Dickens borrowed from the library?
Good morning! My name is John White, import manager of the Garden Trading Company of New York.
If only I was talented.
Let's go then.
Our total for dinner is $ 36.00.
can you give me a hand with some things in the kitchen? I don ’ t think I can finish everything in time.
I was denied a visa?
That is expensive.
I must make an apology for losing my temper.
Does the plant work with everything from the raw material to the finished product?
I'm afraid we don't have any. If I were you, I'd try one of the newspaper stands.
Um, Holly? Look behind you. They're coming this way.
All of your coursework is important, including everything from attendance and homework to all of your test results for the semester.
Well, you heard right.You can get an excellent deal on a new computer here.We have great discounts for students.
Did he get caught?
What kind of medicines does the doctor usually prescribe to children who get high fever?
But, Mom, I'm not dirty.
It's not a big deal.Hey, I found them.
But even with the overhead out, the export overhead must be put in. Finally, it comes to the same thing. Anyway, this is a quality item and should be sold on its value.
Well, I have had many friends that went to a psychic and got their palms read and most of the things the psychic told her came true!
Room Service. May I help you?
Never mind. You can leave them to me.
Aside from yourself, who are the other members of the band?
No. But if something goes wrong with it, I know someone who repairs these things.
You know. I took part in the Chinese contest. I was the best and they gave me this reward. I don ’ t have to pay for my trip.
I am going to post all of that information on the geology club web page. Check it out when you get a chance. See you Monday!
Oh, yes.What do you recommend today?
Right, a ballpark figure is fine, and slant it a little high if you have to.
Well, we don't have a printer in the lobby yet. You'll have to use the lab.
What are you going to look for?
Right you are. We'll see to it that the blouses appeal to the eye as well as to the purse.
Will that be all today?
She's from Australia. She lives in Sydney. Her father runs a hotel business there and she is doing a degree in accountancy.
Well, you always say you're busy.
Well, it depends on the journey. It's.. I guess it's not too expensive, but the minimum price you would pay is, for a short journey, is about a pound.
He ’ s not very good at the long jump though, is he?
For both. Now, do you make machines for producing such things?
Good morning, sir. Sorry to disturb you. May I make up your room now?
Did you hear that Mary ’ s marriage is on the rocks?
Could you send someone to fix it today?
Sure, then. May it really be a day of enjoyment. Other than that, we can also teach him something about science.
Who broke the glass, Peter?
No problem. How about 10 ' o clock this Sunday morning?
It’s the same color. It’s green, too.
Thanks, I'll see you around Wednesday then.
So what was the score?
Of course we have. It's on the seventh day of the seventh lunar month.
Nothing much. I'm just relaxing today. Why? What's going on?
I ’ m very sorry, Madam. Can you tell me what the problem is over the phone or would you like me to go to your office?
I'm not exactly sure if it's your department, but I'd like to ask some questions about qualifying for Comprehensive Credit Granting.
Well, I know. So I am thinking now.
And the sinks don't seem to leak.
What time would be best for you?
That's 10 dollars.
I'm getting sick of work man. I can't take the political bull in the company any more.
Fine.How long does it take to get to 82nd Street?
Not too good yet. Better than I was though.
That writers was lit!
What would you like on your pizzas?
He didn't hurt you, did he?
See you later.
It must have been a few years ago now.
What are you doing, Steven?
Thank you for your invitation. I'm free tonight.
We're all going to church. Do you want to come?
I remember when she moved there. Apartments were a lot cheaper then.
What are the internal factors that influence the company?
I think housing is a big problem. There are thousands of homeless people on the streets.
Sometimes I will try various excuses. But this is my last time asking for leave. Or I will have a bad record.
Thanks. Let's go for a celebration this evening. Are you free?
I'm planning to discuss the advertising budget at the conference. I don't think we should continue with the TV advertising.
That ’ s a good idea
Oh, it's too far to walk there.We can take a bus.
No. Everyone has a chance to correct his or her mistakes. The most important thing is to be responsible for your work.
Thank you. How long it take to get my son's hair cut?
Yes, assuming there's been no damage to the apartment. Before you move in, you can make a list of any marks, scratches, and so forth that are already there.
Well, a lot of the games were pretty silly. I don't know how much it helped us to be a better team, but i think everyone had a good time.
Would you tell me the general description of your present job?
Thank goodness. It is still there. Thank you very much.
Well, I wish you good luck!
It looks good on you.
I would like to do that.
I ’ d appreciate that.
What does Human Resources Department do?
Let ’ s put it down for 1:15 on Thursday. We ’ ll definitely need some new filing cabinets and at least one desk unit.
Grabbing, pushing and shoving...
this book are truly remarkable.
About 13 hours.
Thanks. Could you take one more from this angle?
This coming July.
We demand a surcharge of 80 cents for it.
yes, it did. But my parents are ethnic minority people. It's a preferential policy for an ethnic minority family to have two children.
I surely am. But still there is one single problem.
As a rule, we use cardboard boxes for outer packing. Besides, I would like to make it clear that each piece of computer will be dismantled into several parts before shipment.
Do you have a cell phone?
Yes, and hurry up!
Yes, my application was accepted last Friday. Now it's Wednesday, that's more than 5 days.
I drive a scooter
No problem, I ’ ll take those. Sir, these coupons expired yesterday.
Can you write it down for me please?
And then what happened?
I'm a professional party planner here in the city. I do catering and all that.
What should I do to prepare for a job interview?
Somebody broke into my house in the morning.
The large size please. Do Have you any writing-paper?
Don't worry. We'll put him in the stretcher. You are coming with us? Step in please.
I think I can handle it by myself.
Yes, sir. We usually serve soya-bean milk and jellied beancurd. Which one do you prefer, sir? A
I merely know how to send the direct letter. But I am not familiar with the attachment.
It was nice to see you, too. And please give my regards to Mrs.Robbins.
I don't have any plans.
Well... that's a long story.
We would like to visit the Great Wall, the Ming Tombs and the Imperial Palace.
I'm not positive if it does or not.
How do you do? I ’ m pleased to meet you.
Yes, you can.That color is very popular with Honda buyers. So we've kept it available.
In a cab you just pay what it says on the meter. I generally tip hotel porters 10 yuan per bag, but in first-class hotels they're instructed not to accept gratuities.
Actually, I'm eating the same amount. I eat 5 smaller meals a day. Basically, it naturally speeds up the metabolism and helps to burn fat at a faster rate.
It actually costs less if you have a bus pass.
Hey, Mark, long time no see.
Could you hold the line please? I ’ ll check our room availability. ( After a while ) Thank you for waiting, sir. We have a twin room at US $ 180 per night, will that be all right?
Can she call you back? She is about to start a meeting.
Thanks. Would you like to have one more slice?
OK. I'll talk to you later.
My Willie? Why has he suddenly become my Willie?
Thank you, sir. We look forward to serving you.
Many times. I'm really addicted. It's harder to stop than you think.
Excuse me, Don? I hate to bother you, but I need your help on something. Do you have time to brief me on the Martin account today?
Everything ’ s fine with me.
Yes, here's the menu. What would you think of your order.
All right. I understand now. Do you think I should leave a margin on every page wide enough for notes and amendments.
You mean you didn't get the job because you're a woman?
It's not too much, only about $ 85.
Would you like some more?
I'll get knee to knee with her.
that's right. Why do you ask?
Oh, I know. Thank you. Professor wang.
You can check it, sir.
That's not like you to generalize.
You mean Armistice Day.
Thank you for your inition. I'm free tonight.
You won't catch me, because I love you. I'm not a cheater.
The coast of your country is very varied. The coast of my country is just made up of sandy beaches.
This is a first! You must have won the lottery.
No thanks. I'm full. We need to find our waitress and get our bill.
I totally agree with you. In this way I won't be afraid of the burglar if you are away.
You are entitled to a company car. Have you seen it yet?
What examinations do they take first?
Saturday my parents are coming to town. What ’ s up?
Stop producing cigarettes.
Make yourself at home.
Let me see... the train to New York City... here it is... daily except Sunday at ten thirty, twelve twenty and fifteen ten.
Yes, it's to my liking, too.
No. It’s unfurnished. It has a kitchen, but no oven.There ’ s a garden in the back, but the tenants can ’ t use it.The landlord lives downstairs.Friends are forbidden in the apartment after midnight. No noise and no television after 11
Thank you for your help. I think I'll open a current account.
Thank you, and have a great day.
My stomach feels so empty.
What would you like me to do?
I heard it is included in the four major arts of China, is it?
What? What's wrong?
Tell me then.
How do you get along with your co-workers?
My name is Jane Greenwood.Glad to meet you.
Yes, I can get it for you but I need to go back inside the bank.
When do you want to deliver the goods?
Yes, please. I'm looking for a sofa.
Well, during school, they wanted good grades. Then after I got a job, they wanted me to get a better job. And finally, they want me to get married.
That's fine. Have a nice day!
How often does the bus run?
Could you recommend something to drink?
OK. I will pick you up at your hotel at 5:30 p. m.
Here you are. I'm here on business and this is from my boss, it's for my expenses so I need cash.
You know, just giving me lots to do. I'm really busy right now.
Be careful. Don ’ t drop it! Don ’ t put it there, Sam. Put it here, on this shelf.
A lot, like the party I'm having on Friday.
E-A-K-I-N-S.First name, Donald. And what's your present address, Mr.Eakins?
I really want to make a salad.
Don ’ t worry him, he has been grown up and I think he can take himself very well.
You can ask the guests for help. My guests usually insist on doing the washing up. I just have to remind them where everything goes.
There are hundreds and hundreds.English is particularly rich in idiomatic expressions.
Let's find a quiet seat and sit down for beverage.
It's very kind of you. I really don't know how I can thank you enough.
I see, do you speak any other languages?
In the middle of the summer, it shouldn't be raining.
Yeah. Falling in love is so good!
I don't care.
Whatever brought us together, I'm happy.
I got a car, so the distance wouldn ’ t really be a problem.
How ’ s your father?
That's very nice of you to say.But if we set up an office there in the States, maybe you could try to become part of it.
That ’ s why we should learn to protect ourselves. Otherwise, the game is not worth the candle.
Good. By the way, who's going to cook the meat?
What are you supposed to drink?
Do you know that scientists replicated a sheep into an identical clone.
Pete's Pizza, may I help you?
Not really, they just don't want me living at home. My older sister did that, and she lived at home for seven years. Once she started living at home, it got harder and harder for her to move out.
In fact, if it weren't for our good relations, we wouldn't consider making you a firm order at this price.
No. it isn ’ t. But sometimes it slows a lot in winter.
But that should not be the reason for you to lose heart.
Okay, You are such a good talker.
I heard you are now practicing underwater swimming, aren't you?
About nine-thirty in the morning.
Make sure to study first.
They're over there next to the door. Those three with green tags on them.
How about retirement?
How long will it take? We are in a great hurry.
He lives in the city and you know how expensive it is to keep a car in the city.
Well, afternoon flight on December 10th to Shanghai. May I have your name, please?
The weather is really miserable. It has been raining hard all day long.
What companies do we have in our neighborhood?
Yes. To develop my knowledge, I studied Economics, Business Administration and Accounting through self-study. Nowadays, I have passed three courses on CPA.
It's too late.
No, quite the opposite. I thought I'd never stop falling down. Then all of a sudden I started skiing much better.
That's easy. Anything else?
How typical, when are you ever going to use a silver tea set? Fine! I don ’ t want to drag this out any longer than necessary. What ’ s next? What about these old photographs?
I don't like this kind as much. Never mind the stopwatch then. I'll take that other one. Do you take checks?
Yes, I think she is just a little bit crazy.
I'm a clerk in a shop.
didn't you hear? He was disqualified.
Is that your phone?
How long is the holiday?
Didn ’ t you punch in this morning, Monica?
I'm afraid I've spilt ink all over the table-cloth.
Robert. Philips Robert.
Yeah, I go a lot too. I saw a bear and a lion on my last hike.
Hello! Is your taxi engaged?
Do you like it? It's Irish music.
I'm afraid not. I've promised my girlfriend. We'll travel southwards to find a job that offers higher pay.
We are happy to help you. May I know which one it is?
Yes, you'll be in a different world there.
I'm a quick learner, Mr.Jenkins.
Are you saying we don ’ t have time to watch our favorite show tonight? Jane, you know I really don ’ t like our teacher all that much. He gives far too much homework. He criticizes me in front of everyone all the time.
Thanks, it hasn ’ t been easy, but luckily we have life insurance and Wendy left behind a detailed will that will sort out any other legal matters.
If I remember, he got off with a light sentence. Something like three years in a minimum-security prison.
Mom ~ the toothpaste dropped on my shorts.
That is what we are pursuing.
Willing to help, maybe, but not as helpful as you think.
Yes. I'm afraid so.
I'm afraid I've had a terrible row with my boss. What shall I do?
Oh, dad, I'm not a child. I'm 17 already. I'll come back as soon as the film is over.
Even he's not coming back to school anymore, you still can call him and meet him on weekends.
If I catch you, you'll be sorry.
I ’ m not sure where to pick up my ballot.
Well, it's forty pings including the balcony. See. It's huge.
What am I going to do about souvenirs?
Here is our brochure. It'll help you get acquainted with our products and company.
Are you asking me for a date?
So if I'm looking for a look called A History of Western Society, I'd just look under ' A '.
Sure, I'll certainly help you do it.
I don't know.. Well, maybe you are right, but how am I gonna tell her?
right now, I'm doing some research into the languages of different African tribes.
Thank you. Please make sure that you pay with cash or a cashier ’ s check.
And if we take the Decker units you suggested, what would the price be?
So that is product number MS2119, Size
Ha, ha, ha! That's fair.How did I do?
I bet. That's great news. I'm very happy for you.
You're being serious?
Here you are, But I forgot my photos.
Could you please double space it so I can make corrections?
$ 520 a month? We don ’ t often have apartments as inexpensive as that.We have one apartment for $ 599 a month, on Seventh Avenue. It’s near the station.
I'm glad you say so, you dance beautifully too. It's lucky that I got a partner.
Yes, madam. I graduated from Tianjin College of Finance and Trade three years ago.
Good morning, Sir.
I hope this won ’ t be our last meeting.
I'm seeing that you are doing OK in some areas, but not so well in others.
Comfort Inn, may I help you?
Don't worry. We won't be the first.
I wanted to see the White House.
I'll accompany my wife to the hospital.
No, I want a double room. By the way, is there any discount for children?
No. I heard that's really boring.
Well, I guess no one can help me but myself. For the moment, I just need someone to talk to, so that I can relieve my stress.
I'll tell you all about it another day.
To tell you the truth, I'm strictly into classical music. You don't happen to have any Bach or Mozart, do you?
Well, the first year of our marriage, we had great difficulty getting along. The things that are important to me are not important to him. We had a lot of conflicts.
That sounds not bad at all. I'll take it.
Is she going to be okay?
Steve. Is that you?
I love going to art galleries, particularly when one is holding an exhibition of abstract art.
Certainly. The service cart will be down the aisle again soon.
Will you sit down, Mr. White?
Yes, hello again. I would like to know the exact difference between Dividend Deposit and Dividend Participated Deposit.
I'm pulling your leg, Paul. I'm a shopping queen, remember? So of course I know what a garage sale is all about!
What's special with the service?
I believe that change has already begun.
What type of girl is she?
No. Of course not. But what for?
Well, I quit and gained it back plus 5 pounds.
I can't wait! It sounds like we're going to have a great time. How much money should I bring?
I'm from Long Island, New York.What about yourself?
I think that the best way to reduce crime is to spread wealth more evenly. If most people have similar amounts of money, they will not think of stealing from others.
It's not the right material. Or the right color. I can't possibly accept it.
Figure skating. In my eye, nothing beats it.
Are you still going to write me a ticket?
yes, I am the guy.
You really have a big head, don't you.
When I opened the account with you, I was a student, I graduated a couple of years ago and have a steady salary, so I figured now would be the best time to go ahead.
No, it might be dangerous there.
No problem. Bye, bye.
I've been through a lot today. I forgot to set my alarm clock last night, so I woke up late this morning. And what is worse, I missed the school bus.
this is Nathaniel Brown.
Oh yeah, that's one of my favorite flicks. I think Jim Carry is one of the funniest comedians ever.
Hi. You called and said I should come in. It's about some documents that have arrived for Nobut Foods.
I think that it would look better with a better quality carpet.
I think this one will do.
You bet. Almost all top brands such as McDonald's and KFC are from America.
I should be able to return by next Monday.
No! You should avoid sticking out your belly. Keep your hip steady. Don't swing.
How are you doing, Jim?
I'm Mr.Stephen ' s secretary. He has an appointment with Mr.Green today.
You should ask for a holiday and relax yourself for a little bit. You worked so hard.
I think so. I think that I am good at what I do.
I'll have us ready for Stars.com by the end of next week. After that, I don't know.
All right. What is your type of skin?
How many vegetables do you steal today?
I've had it with Tim! I think I'm going to quit!
If the new girl is competent, maybe they will promote her when that time comes.
I am worried.
Perhaps, but I haven ’ t felt well for a few days now.
Yes, of course. It's so much easier than cash, to be honest ; nowadays I hardly ever use cash. I just put it on the card and pay off the balance every month.
It's supposed to start at about eight.
Maybe make-up would be enough?
Do you know anyone in the play?
When did you begin to learn English?
She ’ s my friend ’ s ten-year-old niece. I guess there won ’ t be another wedding in this family for a long time.
I get along pretty well with most of them.It seems there are always a few rotten apples in the bunch, though, Like Margaret. I don't know why management hasn't fired her yet.She ' s a terrible gossip.
Hello. Front desk.
Yeah, I've been out of town.
I really appreciate that I would expect my secretary to be able to work independently and take over some of my ordinary responsibilities, such as answering routine correspondence, taking phone calls for me and sometimes assisting me with personal affairs.
Honey, a typhoon is coming.
I'm afraid I can't agree with you there. Your price is much higher than other companies.
No, I've only washed my whites.
This style came out last year, though. I like the dress, but I ’ m not sure whether last year ’ s fashions will be same this year.
I have been there. It is in the middle of the mountains. It is not noisy there and you have to be a vegetarian.
Come on. Give it a chance. The movie just started.
Unfortunately, there ’ s always the possibility of some urgent work requiring our attention.
Excuse me. Do you study Chinese at this university?
Well, this one might work for you.
Yes, I like collecting things.
Yeah, I ’ m better after talking to you.
Well then maybe you should resolve to sticking to your goals and objectives.
Tell me what happened.
do you think most people in America believe that abortion is wrong?
Four months ago.
Waiter, get me rag, please. I have just spilled my wine.
Good start. You knocked eight pins down. But you are left with a 7,10 split. Unless you can bowl a UFO-ball on this bowl, it is going to be impossible.
OK, but don't tell anyone what I said.
Am I allowed to check out at 14:00?
Excuse me, Professor, is there a time when I could meet with you?
Oh, no. But cheese is the best thing to go with red wine. And we have really fresh cheese which will be free if you order red wine. Here are the pictures. Pick out something you like.
Yes, we appreciate your efforts in pushing the sales of our pianos. We can see you are experienced in this particular line.
Great idea. I ’ m looking forward to it. See you then.
How do I take the sucking lozenges?
You married Joe, didn't you?
Good idea. I was thinking the same myself.
I like doing aerobics in my spare time. It's good for my health.
What're you doing now?
Don ’ t! Stay the course! Your spoken Chinese will be eternally grateful. I bet you it will even surpass mine with all that practice.
Thanks. My name's Nick.
The copier is right over there, in the corner.
Yes, and I have no idea how to do it.
Oh doctor, I feel so foolish.
See? It’s going to be wonderful! Oh this wedding is going to be everything I ever dreamed of.
Well. You're the tour guide, I'll follow you.
I don't like spending time on commercials.There ' re too many commercials on TV.
It's a little eerie. I'm sure the silence will begin to grow on me.
That ’ s right. But I have bothered him several times.
Professor Wang looks so handsome today. He is wearing a light brown suit and a pink tie.
Sorry, not before ten thirty.
The library closes at six o ’ clock.
Yeah, maybe you ’ re right. How about this outfit?
I am glad to have the opportunity of visiting your corporation. I hope we can do business together.
If so, we find it difficult for us to go on with our talks.
Certainly.It has been specially treated.
By the way, I saw a job in the paper this morning that you might be interested in.
Can you send the technician to check it out?
Do you watch it or do you still play it?
There are so many record players here. That is hard to choose.
( ha ha ) I ’ ll keep that in mind, but don ’ t tell my husband.
That sounds painful. Are you going to be OK?
Yes, right now it's the busy season.
I ought to respect other people ’ s privacy, as most Westerners do.
It would be hard for just me to do it. I don't know the city at all.
That sounds good. Did you study cooking in school?
It leaves at 8
This is the kitchen.
I went to the tutoring service centre on campus today. And I got a job.
Yes. Cortex just stole Darren McDowell from Rolly.And probably Darren will be here.So he will have to spend the whole show standing next to his old Cortex coworkers.
Yes! You can also try to reduce your intake of carbohydrates and foods that are high in cholesterol. You can have steamed veggies or increase your protein intake found in chicken or fish.
I like that too. I don ’ t like the way that advertising campaign often tell you if you don ’ t buy a certain product, you ’ re not cool or modern or efficient or something.
There wasn't really anything that I could do. There's always been a lot of bad blood between my manager and myself. If I had said anything, he would have fired me for sure.
I have many hobbies, I like almost all kinds of sports and I also like to listen to pop songs.
I like this jacket. Can I try it on?
Well, there is air-conditioning. Did you see that window air conditioner there? The problem is that the window unit isn ’ t powerful enough.
No. Only for a couple of weeks.
It has to! I ’ Ve been studying every day, eight hours a day! I don ’ t know, but the school has a great success record.
Last weekend, while they were on their ski trip.
yes, there are several place available in that price range near the university. do you have any other requirements?
Yeah. Water pollution has for a long time been a major concern among the environmental issues.
I know what you mean, I can't wait until it's winter.
How much do you want, Mr.Chen?
Pretty good. There was a bit of turbulence while we were over the Pacific Ocean but it wasn't too bad. The worst thing was the guy behind me. He snored all through the night!
Is this Naomi?
Thank you, I got it. And how long do you expect to stay?
Have we sold out all the newspapers for today?
We have the offer ready for you. Let me check. 10 boxes with 50 brooches per box, at 20,000 yuan ; 20 boxes with 50 waistbands per box, at 30,000 yuan ; 15 boxes with other ornaments per box, at 7, 500 yuan, for shipment in June. The offer is valid for five days.
I have been having a lot of headaches lately.
Very well.Thank you.Did you have a good time there?
Certainly, Sir. What would you like to have?
Seven-and-a-half.
Well. You'd better take a hot shower right now, or you will catch a cold.
Bank of American card. The number is 6786 9182 12300 8657.
No, I didn ’ t. What else should I keep in mind?
I require 6,500 RIB per month as a start. This is my bottom line, the minimum salary I can accept.
Yes, you do. And you need to put out liquid items and your laptop in the box for inspection.
Donna, you really shocked everyone at the party last night!
How's he doing?
how did that happen? He's so talented! I thought he had a great chance of winning a gold medal!
Hello, I was just looking for the guide.
one or two people didn ’ t take to my ideas very well. That was to be expected. The worst thing was that the people who said the idea were good before the meeting didn ’ t support me during the meeting.
It is urgent for us to fill this position now and I would like to stress that English is a must because of the international contacts and most likely traveling abroad very soon. If all these is not problem for you, I recommend you to mention these in your cover letter and send it to me directly.
I'd like to try them on for size.
I stay at No. 115 Fucking Road.
I'm going into the bathroom to blow my nose. I'll be right back.
You've come to the right place. We've got various styles and sizes recently. How much do you measure around your waist?
All right, I see. So the Medicare isn't actually a health insurance I can use now.
I see, so why did you decide to leave finally?
Good afternoon, would you mind if I sit here?
Ok, I ’ ll have it sent to you immediately.
That's a good idea. I was thinking of buying some gifts for my family.
Martin? Did you remember to bring back that software I lent you?
I will never forget this match. The angle is so terrible and so correct.
Don't worry. Have you got receipt with you?
I suppose this song can be the No. 1 on the top chart.
Go and pick some stuff up. The price can always surprise foreign friends.
I certainly can.If I can get some from the butchers, I ’ ll cook them for you.
I ’ d have one guest bathroom in the basement, one attached to the main bedroom, and one upstairs, so a total of three.
What ’ s wrong? I thought we agreed that you were gonna quit smoking.
You mean... like on a second date?
What are you talking about? I have salads some times.
It was one I used down at the local coffee house called the San Francisco Net. It's been around since around 1991.
Wait, let me write this down... Alright, I'm ready.
I hope not. We are getting closer.. two more... one more... it's our turn.
It’s about three hours.
Yes, that's it.
Sure, but let's get a pitcher this time. We should be able to down it before they close.
Do you go to the cinema a lot?
Not really. There aren't any used bookcases listed. But there are a few rummage sales on Saturday. I think I'll go to them.
Really? I think we play you guys next week. Well, I have to go to practice. See you later.
Aren ’ t you interested in watching the Olympics? There have been some excellent performances by athletes from all over the world.
Well, I have to provide some of my information, right?
Didn't you know dogs shouldn't eat cooked chicken bones because they're bad for their stomachs?
Yeah, he tackled him so hard his helmet came off.
But, but... it was really an emergency! And, my stub...
Thanks, I will, byebye!
Now this is our office block. We have all the administrative departments Sales, Accounting, Personnel, Market Research and so on.
Excuse me. Do you mind if I try this on?
Business is booming. I understand you want to meet up with me next week. How's your schedule look?
Why'd you pull me over?
No, there's no such section. The dairy section is where you'll find milk and cheese.
Oh, my God. Do you want to be a millionaire? I can see you are very crazy about money.
I hope that they accepted the counter-offer.
did you like them? You could take the last one home with you.
No. they don ’ t. they simply charge higher prices at peak times. Is there no limit on the amount of advertisements that can be shown on Tv in your country?
the area can be a bit rough in the evenings, but the neighbors watch out for each other, so It’s ok.
This is great, isn't it?
No, you need to turn left into Philimore Was and take the next right.
So when's the next forty-four? Will it be here soon?
Reception. May I help you?
Chicago University. My major is Economics.
That would be great, then we could plan things sooner.
You can decide by yourself.
She seems to be quite qualified. If It’s a personal problem, I ’ d prefer it if you would work it out between yourselves.
Wow! When did you come into so much cash?
It's at 8: 00.
Thanks for all your help.
Don't worry. She will be all right.
I see. How often does this bus run at this time of day?
I brought some cheese to make cheeseburgers and some onions for the hot dogs. We ’ ll need some tomato ketchup and some barbecue sauce.
I've actually been pretty good. You?
That's good, thank you.
I'm sure your wife will love them.
Welcome to our International Business Counter. How can I help?
This is Robert Jordan.Would you ask him to call me back, please?
Er..., that blue pair. I need size 43, please.
I've been standing here since half past seven. Where on earth have you been?
Why did you tell me to get off?
The buck stops here.
yes. MSN, QQ, Skype, Google Talk, Ali wangwang, everything, so that I'll be in touch with all friends and relatives.
What's wrong with him?
No, there are only some vases.
It should be no longer than an hour.
Would you like regular car wash package?
Well, George. I guess I am. Why do you ask?
Er... double with bath. I'd appreciate it if you could give me a room with a view over the lake.
Let's plan a surprise party for him!
It looks so cute. Is it a parrot?
Well, thank you very much, I hope I can find it.
Good luck here.
Then can I exchange it for something else with the same price?
It's not really all that good.The bedroom is a little small for us.
Yes, I have that.
No, I don't suppose he's to blame.The man in the other car made a mistake.
I appreciate what you have done for me.Everything I have seen here has left a deep impression on me. I really don't know how to express my thanks to you.
oh, I don ’ t. they don ’ t seem to take anything seriously. You never know when they are joking and when they are being serious.
That's all right.Show me the blue pen, please.
Not much... but that's ok... I'm a night owl anyway.
what's the matter with these ideas?
Be brave. Don't worry. You will be able to walk soon.
How about 50,000 RIB. Would that be a problem?
Leave it to me. I know exactly where to find it.
Yeah. He told me that he has passed over in the election of monitor.
That price of ours, by the way, is for a minimum quantity of 1,000 saddles.
Confirm the question if you don't catch it clearly.
Yes. Let me help you.
You have to tell them if you were too sick to work on any of the days that you should have been looking for work.
What does she look like?
I really would appreciate it if you could come look at apartments with me.
Good. I know that you are capable of being an excellent student.
I like peace.As a matter of fact, I once had a job in a library.
That writers was lowkey awesome.
O. K., O. K. Let ’ s forget it. There ’ s a football game on too.
No, I'm good. All we need now is our check.
You are very welcome. Come back again.
We have to pick up Conrad before the party.
Actually, I'm already working for WebTracker. Vince never wanted to give me what I was worth, so I figured, what the heck.
You are so not here! His girlfriend is one of the cheer leaders.
Yes. I'm sure. You have the wrong number. I have used this number for more than 20 years.
I believe you were the best choice for that promotion. I really do.
I'd rather have broccoli.
Oh, yes. Singing is also a good way of keeping fit, at least mentally.
I need to fight this ticket that I got.
Have you brought your credentials?
Excuse me, will you change me some money, please?
He prefers suits to jackets.
No, thank you. That's it.
Can you read what this says?
Oh, that's my great, great, great, great, great, great, great grandfather.
Maybe. After all, I am grown up now.
I wish it didn't have cruise control. My wife doesn't like it either.
No, it seems too old-fashioned.
And then, what should we do next when you meet the guests?
Great! Do you know someone else who is also looking for an apartment?
Would you prefer to come in in the morning or the afternoon?
All right. Anything else?
Thanks. But I'm not so sure. Interviews stress me out.
I do feel like a trip to Florida on such a gloomy day in New York, to enjoy the sunshine while lying on the beaches of Florida.
Good question. Yes, he has a moustache, but no beard.
So that's how it is! Now he ’ s in trouble, but I belive he will rise to his own feet again.
I want to have a different color carpet.
Superb! It's a 4 megapixel one and the photos it takes are very vivid and clear.
It's Saturday. Could you make the time?
I really appreciate your kind words.
The only time we can come on Friday is at 3
Happy to know you, Tim.
Not yet. Do I have to?
You ’ re going to have to pay late fees.
Why? Didn't you say that they were milestones?
This is your change.
Only a few.
Steven, we are preparing a martial arts show for the New Year's party. Would you like to join us?
Have you ever been behind the wheel?
I see. You simply can't blame the server for this.
But I have seen many toys in your home.
I can't help it.
It doesn't sound like that much when we go over the plan but that's a long, long ride.
Do you have any ketchup?
This is a gift she'll cherish for years. How do you want to pay?
Wow! That car almost hit me.
I am sonry.So you are loaving on Duty 21st and your seat is in the business section.
Ah, yes, a table for four at 8
May I have a look at the introduction?
Can you tell me how to apply for a job on the Internet?
How much do you need?
The handicapped logo with blue means that you are not to park there unless you have a handicapped permit. Will you mostly be parking during the day or the night?
Well, we could go to the newsagent's to pick up the Sunday paper, go to the butcher's to pick up a chicken for a roast dinner, and to the chemist's to pick up your prescription from the doctor.
Not at all. I got a 3.8.
Yes. You can save a lot of money in this way.
Don't you have one like this in blue?
Yes, I'm dating someone. Her name is Amanda.
These here are all mediums.
Until 8 o'clock madam. We are looking forward to seeing you.
Sure! How about we go home and prepare a couple of sandwiches?
Hello, Jim. What was the film like?
A moment please, sir. Yes, I can confirm 10 rooms for those days.
No, I didn't think I ’ d need it.
Have you signed up to join the company ’ s Christmas party?
It may take many years for the trees to grow. I hope people will stop cutting down trees.
Mr Jacobs! Lovely to see you again! What can I do for you today?
How do you like the food here?
I remember, sir, that your friend took the bill.You didn't pay for the lunch yourself, did you?
oh, no. not at all.
My warmest congratulations on your entering the Oxford University.
Excuse me, sir?
I have the sauce, but remind me to get some catchup at the shop.
Better take the subway. It's faster, and more convenient.
What is your career objective?
What do they mean?
No problem. We'll bring you the towels in just a minute.
Well, yes. But surely you like a girl with a nice figure.
Oh, they are playing the wedding March. Here they come.
Good morning, madam. What can I do for you?!
I wanted to set up this meeting with you to discuss a little proposal.
Well, sir. Can I take your measurements first?
It's all in the bag.
Well, I may have accidentally insinuated that she is getting chubbier.
Yes, thank you. I am really far behind on this project. Could you help me with the extra typing or xeroxing?
yes, I've applied to four universities and have been accepted into all of them.
Yeah, the people in the next room are a little loud. Could you do something about it?
I always like to see the oldies, like The Sound of Music, Gone with the Wind. They are realty the best - in the acting, the scene and the plot.
Make sure you buy what you need and your clothes can be worn for various occasions.
You can catch the 486.
Delighted I was able to help.
I, I don't know how to explain it to you.
This is a membership card. You can get a 20 percent discount next time.
I don't think the thing can be that serious. You should face the result. Besides, I don't think the position is the best for you.
Did you vote?
good idea! I've always been interested in that. How much is the entrance fee?
Yeah, you better give me the insurance, because I am gonna beat the hell out of this car.
But Ben is not a bad man. I know him from A to Z.
How? Do you want to play strip-trivia or something?
All right. Now can I have your passbook?
Can I see the paper when you're through, Sally?
Well, it doesn't matter. I almost forgot it too if it is not for Peter who asked me about it this coming.
How do we get to the library from here?
Why the drama? Have you been watching soap operas?
We are fishing with worms. The fish seem to like them.
Good, because my friend Wendy is getting married and I ’ m organizing her party!
Really? Was it delicious?
By the way, do you know the price of the gas now?
I am sorry to tell you that I have lost the opportunity.
That's great. But can you make the rent cheaper, let's see, 12,000 Yuan?
I have to get home, but I don't need all of this fancy technology, I think I'll just walk.
A ticket to London, please.
You can apply right now.
Take the No. 7 bus. There's a bus stop just over there.
Well, that explains it. I've been using my old PIN number! Thanks for explaining everything to me.
I'd like a beer. What kind of beer do you have?
My name is Woody.
I majored in Public Relations.
I'll take 4,500 RIB, please.
6 hours. If you are in a hurry we can develop it in 3 hours.
The man asked where we want to go, then he type out the information on the form and waited for a reply. A few moment later, he gave us two tickets.
Are these seats all right? They're in the second rows.
My friend, who had the mishap, wants to take us to dinner to show her gratitude for helping her.
Yes, but when you send in your expense report, you also have to file a report summarizing your trip. It’s not just a big vacation, you know.
What's the matter? Are you OK?
OK. Is this all right?
That's reasonable. Will you take care of meals for the day?
OK! Let's get down to business now.
Certainly! The most attractive place is that, it's very large ; it is 8 times the size of Forbidden City and 16 times the size of Summer Palace. The art of gardens is perfectly represented in it.
So, this 500 RIB is worthless?
I found it very disappointing.
Wonderful! You know what? I wish you wanted to relax everyday.
Sure. I'd rather show Bean in a garter belt, but all in good time.
Um, ninety-five dollars?
What are those?
that's interesting. Do you think they'd hire me?
Sure. That's really amazing. However I don't have so much time. Do you have a full day cruise?
Excuse me? Is this where I register? I ’ d like to sign up for my courses for next semester.
I understand. When do you think I can come and see him tomorrow afternoon?
Hi Amanda, how are you? I've missed working with you and the whole gang since my transfer last week.
Hi, I'd like to leave a wake-up call.
Yes. some other time perhaps.Thanks again.
Are these the clothes you want to have washed?
This room is filthy with cockroaches.
Ok, how does this sound, “ I was so enchanted by your beauty that I ran into that wall over there. So I am going to need your name and number for insurance purposes. ”
You should take several resumes and some copies of your graduate diploma.
OK, whatever, I don't want to hear about it. I'll call the doctor for you.
how have you been?
We are on the high way. Find the pound shade..
Hello, welcome to Credit Services. How can we help you?
Which line should we take if we go to Danshui?
I ’ ll make a deal with you. We ’ ll leave it up until Sunday, and then we ’ ll take it down after church.
As you know, before shipment, the Commodity InspectionBureau inspected the goods in question. They concluded that the goods were well dehydrated from fresh and choice material and up to standard for export.
I said It’s a lovely day. Why don't we go for a walk?
Did you clean your room today?
Go to window number eleven.
There aren't a lot of clothes, do you have a lot to wash?
Thanks again for buying the tickets. That was the most exciting live concert I've ever seen. That silver electric guitar was really cool.
I would like to go but I have to finish a very important presentation. Our boss needs it for tomorrow ’ s morning meeting and I was given the complete information only late this afternoon.
I don't like them. I think they are too icky.
At six o'clock in the International Hotel. We'll pick you up this afternoon. Besides, if you care for visiting, we'll arrange some sightseeing for you.
Great, let's go!
Do a lot of people ride that bus?
But you're OK? It was nothing serious, was it?
OK! Then what can I do after I finish it?
I hope this transaction will pave the way for further business relations between our two countries.
Yes, very. They make the trip in about an hour.
you can buy the bubble wrap here, but you ’ ll have to stand in line over here to post your passage.
It is known that there is a time limit for trademarks. And we should not have a similar trademark with the one in the same field.
It's just that you have to be patient and try to relax.
Hi, my name ’ s Karl. My wife and I are moving in next door.
I have no idea. What about you?
Ok. I'll talk to you later.
Where ’ s what wagon?
Well, give me a call if you can ’ t make it for some reason.
It’s a new phrase that she taught us today. It means that I will not only pass the class, but I will do extremely well!
I ’ m glad that you like it. This is only the first time that I made it.
Is there any possibility for you to ensure prompt shipment?
which one is that?
Aren't there any trains before 10 thirty?
I ’ m going to put all the rubbish into this big plastic bag.
I ’ m a defender. It’s a lot of fun. You don ’ t have to be able to skate as fast on defense.
And how do you like working for IBM?
But there is always somebody who wants to turn his back on the true history.
What happened? Why did everyone get so quiet?
I used to be really interested in that. But lately it seems that they end up saying one thing and doing another anyway. So why listen?
Is this the baggage claim area for flight KB256?
OK. I will be free at tomorrow afternoon. I'll take a taxi to get there.
That's a bad habit.
Certainly. May I have your card, please?
No, it doesn't cost anything.
Yes, my name is Carol Tiang. That's spelled J - I - A - N - G.
Eighty dollars a day. How long do you plan to stay Mrs Wu?
First, I ’ Ve heard that your latest book is based on a true story.
What the others?
Not until next week, I think, the 15th.
What will I learn when I see the results on the website?
Oh, why didn't you say it's an emergency? Here, fill out this form and take a seat. I'll send you in next.You don't have insurance?
I'm sorry. You're right. I should have asked.
How are your cases coming along?
Would you show me this brooch?
I didn ’ t get in.
Lucky you! I can't buy anything else. I'm flat broke.
Why? This is a fair market price.
Can I go to my room, now?
Good afternoon. My name is Monica. I am here for the job interview at 2 PM.
It's May 1st.
That ’ s a good idea. Remember that if the parents watch too much Tv, the kids will probably follow suit.
I heard that it's supposed to get up to 90 degrees Fahrenheit today.
I'm just asking. It's not like I'd actually make a bid.
OK.Put on something by the Backstreet Boys!
I don't have money for a transfer.
I know. But I want to start today with a little weight lifting.Then I'm going to buy a new swimming suit and goggles, and every other day I'm going to go swim laps in the pool. How does that sound?
May I suggest family sweet? You all just have a consolation.
I didn't expect to see you at this hour. You must have goofed off again.
As well my company has been very supportive about my decision.They ' Ve cut back my working hours in order to accommodate my studies.
That ’ s great to hear.
No problem. Don't worry, the taxi is faster than the bus.
Lower level employees need not attend. The purpose of this retreat is for training, especially for our management team. We want to develop a well-oiled machine on our executive level. In order to get everyone to jell together, we've got to include some fun. That's the reason for the retreat.
You can trust him. He always tells the truth.
Hello. May I speak to Jerry, please?
You can find anything! Are you sure you want to start shopping online though? Once you step into this world, there is no turning back!
You ’ re welcome. Be sure to get the keys one day before you move in.
Hi, this is Kalina from your morning literature class.
How about printing a warning on each cigarette packet?
Thank you for your information. As you know, our corporation is a state-operated one. We always trade with foreign countries on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. I have no doubt that it will bring about benefit between us.
Can you help me find my books?
Oh, I see. By the way, how can I get out of the platform after I get off the train?
Can you work under pressure?
No, I'll call the attendants at the gate to tell them that you are on your way.
It was the police wo helped me to do that.
Well, he's young, tall and thin.
Yes, where can I buy trousers?
Oh. I see. I would like to have mashed potatoes and chocolate pudding.
One to the beach. How much is it?
But according to the contract, employees get a discount in the restaurant.
Are you interested in going sightseeing, Mr. Simpson? I think you are here not only for the negotiation but also for sightseeing.
I'm In Hui. Do sit down, won't you?
Does that suggest diners avoid speaking much? The same is true in the West.
Do I have a choice? You said the guy who was supposed to do it didn't show.
Oh, my. What did you do?
I don't know. Do you have any advice for me?
What's that? I've never heard of such a thing.
Great! I'm your lucky fellow then.
It’s nice to see foreign language films making a little impact on Hollywood. I like the best actor and actress.
Right. We do the same thing at home. Don't you remember?
It’s half past twelve.
Really? Then I'm really lucky. Oh, it's spewing fireworks from its huge mouth.
7 a. m.
I will tell you what I can agree to.If you can quote me a price of 6000 dollars, installation included, I can accept.
I am sorry, but I think I ordered waffles.
Hi. I want to open an account with you, so I can pay my bills by direct debit.
Are you worried about anything?
Excuse me, can you tell me how I can get to the snowboarding area?
I don ’ t think that it is looking any better inside here.
Of course. Our lobby is set up for wireless, so just bring your computer down here.
That's great. Thank you for making this concession. I accept.
I'm sorry, I didn't quite catch that.
maybe if I sold my car now, I wouldn't be so tempted to use it.
I am free tomorrow afternoon between two and four ; do you have a particular time in mind?
Yes. You know I ’ Ve been cooking more kind of food recently and I needed some extra space for spices and ingredients.
Willy, I don't think we have much butter.Can you buy some?
If she has, they must be fair-weather friends.
Frankly speaking, the price you offer is too high. We can't accept it.
Well, ' Terminator ' is a really great action movie, and I like action movies because they're exciting.
Yesterday I had a runny nose. Now my nose is stuffed up. I have a sore throat. And I ’ m afraid I've got a temperature. I feel terrible.
It is black tea, it has a strong taste and promotes digestion.
Yeah, if something is on the radio it must be really good.
I am James Pond from FAM Company and I am here to discuss it with Nova.
The first thing we do is check the feel of the paper ;d oes it feel too thick or too thin? Then we check the watermark. In my opinion it is counterfeit. I'll just run it through the scanner to double check.
Good.Now, if you'll just sign here, you can start work in 3 days.
Well, it is very beautiful.
I know. It's going to save me a lot of money, I hope.
What does it included?
Do you have your medical history sheet with you?
My minibar is completely empty.
Do you have cold medicine?
One more thing, if you are wanted in this position, you must prepare to travel aboard frequently.
Let ’ s see... I would say about eight hundred dollars.
In cash. How much is the total charge?
Would you like to tell me something about your outstanding achievements?
Please put down the table in front of you. It's more comfortable that way.
I overheard this information when I passed Arden's office. We got some complaints from consumers yesterday. I am terribly sorry for that.
Here we are ' withdrawal ', so I just press here?
Thanks for the information. And good luck in your college search.
Hello, Friendship Hotel. How can I help you?
Mom, come here. I know this, it is carrot, am I right?
Yes, I think I can. I often talk to foreigners at English corner held twice a week at my college. They say my English is pretty good.
I think Mary must be sad, because she loves her husband very much.
Thank you.How much is the fare to that stop?
7 o'clock tonight and there will be 5 persons.
Yes and it is quite a big building so you won't miss it. There is also a small supermarket next to it.
I'm going to Disneyland.
What time would you like to take the test?
Look, there is traffic accident over there.
Why are they all in glass boxes?
You like Titanic? That movie is so cheesy.
I ’ m in the market for a job! I went on a website with hundreds of job listings in the area and browsed through them until I got the names of a few employers I would like to work for. I have the resume I wrote for English class last month and a cover letter will be a piece of cake to write. I ’ Ve even done my research and found the names of the managers so I can address the letters personally. And you know I can be charming in interviews. Goodbye my penniless days! Hello salary and a career!
In my opinion, it has a broad prospect and it needs smart mind.
I know. Thank you very much.
How do you find the prices there?
There have been so many dry winters lately that it's about time, don't you think?
You mean you and I?
I have thought about it for a long time. I think it's time to move on for both of us.
But each children has his own interest.
To encourage the staff increases.
Here's our inquiry list. You'll find the required items, specifications and quantities all there.
Yes, I have it.
No, mom. Piano is for girls.
I need it delivered at 12.
Oh, what a terrible situation! This traffic is unbearable.
When can I come and see you?
Give him a chance.
Oatmeal and toast sounds good to me.
That's true. I should make sure my wife and baby stay healthy during this time.
That sounds like a good idea. We can chill out a little in such a hot summer. Are you good at swimming?
No, not at all.it ' s about how to keep fit.
How do you like other films starring Charlie Chaplin?
I've tried, but I can't stand the bald man talking so loudly in the program.
Don't worry about it. I keep forgetting everyone's birthdays as well.
I know. It took me three weeks, and I work here.
I do, but if I don't have any credit in my phone, it won't let me call or send messages.
Pop. It's Maria Carey.
The motorcycle? But that ’ s mine!
Mm. All my children hope to go to college. Right?
A new home health monitor.
Come to my house for Thanksgiving! We are having turkey, pumpkin pie, mashed potatoes with gravy, and lots of stuffing!
You should try contacting your post office.
Oh, that means I can't make sure for my own.
Yes, we deliver there. But it costs two pounds fifty.
OK, I will send them to you soon.
I like it. But how did you know about my new job? I wanted to surprise you.
OK! Thank you very much. See you a week later.
Nancy Brown. My phone number ’ s 709 678 5634. Nancy Brown 。
Yeah, fine. And dressing leather shoes.
So far, less than 20 people have died, but over 100 are in hospital.
And, who is sponsoring your trip?
Oh, I love you too!
How long can I keep it?
You just need to send an application.
I ’ m sure he would. We usually have to drag him home.
well, I personally don't like then because i don't believe they are healthy.
What do you think is important in your work?
Right. You have to turn it on and program it depending on what type of clothes you are washing. For example for delicates, you should set a shorter washing cycle. Also, be sure to use fabric softener and this detergent when washing.
Oh, I hate having teeth pulled out. Will it hurt?
My wife and I earned one hundred and fifty thousand dollars last year.
Um, yes, please, I could really use some help. I'm going over to my boss'house for dinner tonight and don't know what kind of wine I should bring.
You'v been work here for nearly a month, how do you feel about the job?
Just make sure you keep it on the gentle cycle.
It's a nice cinema, isn't it?
I had no clue that I could get it there.
Don't worry. No big deal. Just a common cold.
so that's why It’s hard to have a happy marriage with a foreigner.
I would love to get some dessert.
Give me a book please, Jane.
I'm reading about Michael Milliken, the Bond King.
I came to see my aunt.
Thanks for helping me up.
I'd love to, but I don't care for skating very much.
I don't know. We may have missed our stop.
You'll be up all night if I let you do that.
My paycheck seems to be smaller than the one I received last week.
And these old Dutch candle holders would go nicely with the tea set. Have them.
Where is the library?
The sun is up! Time for all the campers to rise. Time to get paddling.
Oh yes, you are right. Very important organs indeed.
Professor Wood? I think he's a brilliant scientist.
Why don't we take him out? We can try to take his mind off of it. In the least show him that we're there for him.
Yes, I have confirmed your ticket.
Yes, please. I'm actually returning her call. So perhaps you could tell her that I called.
It is said that Bungee was originally a grown-up ceremony of the indigenous people of New Guinea. People stood on branches of the tree, which was over 30 meters high. Their feet were fastened with canes and they jumped off from where they stood. When they almost reached the ground, they suddenly stopped to prove their bravery and express that they were able to endure the hardships of life independently.
It's very dangerous, you know.
You can fill in this lost property report and I will keep my eye out for it. These kinds of things usually turn up eventually, but I suggest you contact your embassy and tell them about your situation, so they can issue you a new passport in case it doesn't show up.
OK. What about an evening riverboat tour?
Of course. Irrevocable letter of credit, confirmed letter of credit, transferable and divisible letter of credit are common terms of payment in international trade.
That ’ s not my fault.
No problem. Would you like some artificial carnations?
Good.So we don't have to work.How nice!
Actually you haven't have much.
Very badly, doctor.
Help me hang up this picture, please. Would you hold it straight while I put in the nail?
I would like the round-way ticket to Shanghai on December 10th.
I don't think the manager will get mad at you for being late.
no, but we're trying to contact them.
No, I think it's enough.
OK. Thank you very much for telling me all these things.
Next door is so noisy. I can't sleep at all.
Have a nice weekend.
No, I don't need a converter because I bought a digital TV.
That ’ s true. Well, how much do you think I should get?
What? You want to drive me bankrupt! You can't expect us to make such a large reduction.
Does he mean I am inquisitive or I ’ m noisy?
Of course and very well.
Can I speak to Li Hong, please?
I need to report a break-in.
No, it's not far.
do you think they ’ ll get back together?
that's what I am worried about. I do understand the respect attached with the gift and I am honored. But I really don't think it's proper for a student to spend a fortune on a gift for a professor.
Don ’ t worry, madam. I guess we should get there not later than 1:30 p. m.
Let's give it a shot!
She'd better not start crying like she usually does.
Every so often, I do.
Sadly, I hardly ever speak to English people. I usually practice with my Chinese friends.
most of them are office buildings, huge department stores, and hotels but some are just private homes. New York is one of the financial centers of the words so there are lots of very expensive places.
( Afternoon ) Miss Liu. Are you typing my report?
I wonder if it is possible that we organize a dinner party for all the colleagues in our departments. They are working very hard these days. Maybe it is time for everybody to relax a little.
You're right. If she walked into meeting with our clients like that, it would make our company look bad, wouldn't it?
Wasn ’ t it cold on Wednesday?
Don't jump to conclusions. Look at the bright side, try to make another date again.
I'll take care of the order.
This is Mary. I just want to let you know that we made an offer to you. The salary is 3,000 yuan a month, I e-mailed the offer to you as well. You can let me know within a week if you accept the offer.
Sure.Hey, I'm sorry, but I've got to get going.
What's he trying to pull anyway.
OK. What's the reason you are sending her flowers?
Harris and Anne are perfect for each other.
That's called blind love. Well, I gotta run. Tell me how it goes next week.
We have settled the question of price, quality and quantity. Now I am calling to talk about the terms of payment. What are your terms of payment?
Yes, I have. But the taste of steamed fish at that restaurant is not delicious. The fish is not well-done and too salty.
For you, I would recommend this one here.
Yes, that's the price they were advertising it at. I was hoping it might go on sale soon. Why, how much did you pay for it?
Sure. What do you want to find?
That looks like a bad accident.
Neither am I. It's just that the best-looking girls are in that club.
Yes, he was 29 then.
OK, please move your vehicle off to the side of the road. We will check on it. Do you feel like you need an ambulance, Miss?
Do you think I should wear a different dress?
I find that you spend little on handset charge every month. Have you any trick?
Try and stand up. Can you stand up? Here. Let me help you.
Don't believe him. He's liar.
Oh, they have? I didn't know. I haven't seen Tom lately.
Oh, a cat? Come on.
Yes. It’s on this street. Keep walking for two blocks and It’s on the corner on the right.
My friend and her fiance had a really good idea. They have cut out pictures from catalogues and pasted them in a notebook. The picture are of things they want. People sign their name by the item they will buy.
How much money are you trying to raise?
It was Professor Johnson.
Good.Now here's the address of the factory.The manager's name is...
Hilda Harris husband, Henry had an accident on his way home from work.
No problem. See you!
Ninety dollars is pretty steep. I'll take it for sixty bucks.
it's a popular game with some people, but I've never played it.
Oh. That helps. Thanks.
Too bad. I really like it.
They can cook them themselves to make sure exactly how they like it.
Oh no! Evaluations! You can tell that's not my favorite job ; I haven't even started yet. When is the deadline for turning in thecompleted forms?
I think, as the saying goes haste makes waste, it is the same with marriage.
I do this every year.
May I ask where you live?
What is your understanding of a job?
Wow. He's heavy! And his skin feels really cool.
Print shop. Seam speaking.
Our company has a strict and reasonable salary standard. On the 20th day of every month, you can get your salary on time. Benefits depend upon the length of service and the employee's past attendance record.
Are you going swimming again this afternoon?
I look forward to more of artists.
Would you like to have lunch with me?
Thank you, sir. May I have your name and phone number, please?
Is that near here?
I didn't know. I'll go to get it. How late will you be open?
It should take about twenty minutes to go through the main plant, and maybe another ten to take a look at the laboratory. All together our tour should last about half an hour.
No, but the charge is rather low.
Oh, I am from London as well.
Just a mistake with my name. It should be issued as Steven, but the card is under the name ' Steven '.
Really? I think you see more traveling by train.
Okay, I think that will be all for me today.
Sure, Merton Financial Advisors.
You can say that.
It is very kind of you. I'm so moved by you.
Hi, I have a reservation under the name of Sandals.
It should go to Altadena.
That ’ s right. If you have hot dishes, you can try some.
' Beautiful Mind ' will be playing again. And there's also ' Titanic '.
I'm afraid I can't discuss that over the phone.
Have you just started college?
I didn ’ t know it until yesterday. I put my foot into it, and was even stupid enough to ask when they would get married.
No, this is the medicine for the stomach.
What about the expression goodbye? Is that an idiom?
Let me see. En. Here is your baggage.
Excuse me, ma'am?
The show will be starting in a few minutes. We'd better go in and find our seats.
Who ’ s this?
Maybe not, but I advice you to say it was your fault.
No problem. How would you like to pay for these?
I think I'll go and get my food there.
Thanks anyway, but I'll do it, Rebecca. Let's get the class.
Oh, I forgot.
Las Vegas is in the southwest.
Yes, can we help you?
This rate is one percent. That will be 10 yuan.
Hello, Miao Ping. I'd like to open a Foreign Currency Account today.
Right, I see. It all sounds pretty complicated to me. I think I'm going to need some more time to think about this and make a decision as to what I want to do.
Have you been drinking plenty of water?
You asked for it.
Don ’ t worry, we ’ ll try to help you. Will you please fill out this form?
Well, it's all new stock in the window now.
Is uncle Bill your brother?
One thousand yuan, please. By the way, what is today's exchange quotation?
I'm so relieved. I just passed the bar exam.
Let me check you out of your old room, you have to sign here, and acknowledge these changes and also the charges to your previous room. Then I can hook you right up to room 1780.
I'm the same with you, an amateur mountain climber. 1 went climbing in the Rocky Mountains with my friends last summer vacation. We spent two days in the mountains.
Your dream will come true.It ' s really breathtaking.
You should know that our hotel chef was trained in Paris. The service and food are world-class.
Maybe so. But a law banning cigarettes would do no good.
Julie! It's good to see you again. How have you been?
Can you take part in our picnic this Saturday?
Have you found another job yet, Sally?
In that case, you should go home and get plenty of rest.
I have a good feeling about this house.
Hurry up, little boy.
My parents are always saying I am not good enough.
But you've been looking for that stamp for years.
Well, then, how much do I owe you?
I'm afraid my association with Broadway musicals is rather limited.
Then are you sure you took your wallet out of your pocket while you were here?
It is not true.
I know. It's a mix of all the latest songs.
Did you working in a similar position before?
What's wrong, Bob?
This is your receipt which you have to keep until the remittee receives the express. You can also check your post on our web. The post number is on the top of the receipt.
I ’ m glad you ’ re enjoying it.
Of course. Just a minute ; I ’ ll get her.
That this movie was lowkey awesome.
Sure. I took such courses as accounting principles, commercial accounting, cost accounting, industrial accounting, electronic data processing accounting, and accounting involved in foreign capital enterprises.
That's fine with me.
I don ’ t want to.
Now we have a two-year-old boy. We're very happy that he's healthy and smart.
I am. What can I do for you?
That's a lot of money! What did you do? Break the piggy bank?
Mr. : Hello, Mary.
Sorry. There are only some seats in the back.
Thank you. Your room number is 507, queen bed, nonsmoking. Is that agreeable to you, sir?
Would you please bring me the black suit? I want to try it on.
I don't know for sure. When you get here we'll talk about it.
Stop fussing! It is said that the training is important for our newcomers. And my company also informs me to attend the training next week.
Well, I don't have an Ethernet port. My computer runs entirely on wireless service.
We shouldn't have any trouble if the traffic isn't too heavy. Is this your first trip here?
Early next week. In the meantime, I should be very pleased if you would get everything ready. I hope that the goods can dispatched promptly after you get my Letter of Credit.
yeah! She could do anything she wants to me!
he was taking steroids to make him stronger and faster.
"I'm sorry to say "" No. """
How about I get pizza and you get a burger?
The price will be $ 308 a night.
OK, I know where this is going. How much will it cost me to get a new computer?
Sure! What kind of food would you like?
Have you ever worked as a tour guide?
I know several. But wouldn ’ t it be easier to take the shirt back and exchange it for the right size?
Welcome. May I help you?
poor Mary! She really liked him.
With the fifty forwards he sent out today, maybe we'll inadvertently get inspired.
Until 8 o'clock, ma'am. We are looking forward to seeing you.
This is Li with Silk Company. We met last Sunday during the exhibition.
Does this happen more when you are under stress?
Yes, their new album just came out last week. It is number one on the billboard.
I'll use a credit card, thank you.
"Well, English is a "" paper tiger "". Its natural enemy is adequate practice."
No, everyone keeps in mind that ' Don't intrude in a family dispute '.
Yes, please. I've been here for nearly two months, but I still haven ’ t found a job. Do you think you can find one for me?
I'm looking for a pan I can use in my kitchen.
Thank you very much. I have been looking for it for a long time. Is this the latest edition?
Find out what other companies charge for the same products or services. Price yourself near the low end. Don ’ t be much cheaper than everyone else, because many customers distrust very cheap things. Th
Hide me, Yi-jun! The kids all think I'm the real Easter bunny!
I'm tired of your cut-and-dried opinions. Who do you think you are!
Mr. Green, I ’ d like to introduce you to Mr. Brown.
They work for Zina now.
Yes, most of them think it's good. But, some people have different opinions. They consider we should arrange some challenging activities.
Well, I confess I've had my doubts about his abilities before. It seems he mainly got the job because his famous aunt pulled some strings.
To tell the truth, I don't like it.
You are just a little bit chubby, not paunchy.
Yes, but I bet $ 200 dollars on the Cougars!
My dear, tomorrow is our wedding anniversary. We've been together for 20 years. But you never change. Always so careless! Do you remember the thing that happened on our wedding day?
Is your application successful?
You ’ re kidding. What am I going to do?
He lets his cousins look after his business.
How long do you plan to stay?
In the interview, use polite words, such as ' Thank you ', or ' Please '.
You are late. The last piece has sold out.
Yes, but it takes a while to find things. It's not organized as carefully as a regular store.
the conference are so woke.
Thank you, Mr.Burton.Can you please hold for a moment? I'll check to see if she is available.
Good point. This is Sarah O ’ Connell reporting live from Washington D. C., back to you, Tom.
You should consider eating healthier food and getting some more exercise.
Wow! It's a trivia game all about the Academy Awards.
Yeah, two at the tenth rows.
Oh. Did you pick up the suits from the cleaners?
Then you can buy Aspirin.
I see. What about age limitations?
Yeah. How about ' Happy Birthday Tony, from the gang. '
Do you have any dutiable items?
What do you consider to be your weak points?
Just tor three days. I won't need these luggages.CouId I put them here?
I think a pipe burst in my apartment.
Yes, we really enjoyed it.
But would it be relaxing? By summer. I ’ ll be quite tired from doing so much work. The last thing I need is to use more energy racing around Australia. I ’ d need another holiday to recover from the holiday!
Well, I don't often use them, I wouldn't really know.
Our room number is eleven-seven and my name is Terry Chen.
Swim stations? Whoever heard of such a thing?
Okay! I'll do the dishes.
I would like to purchase some meat.
From 9 to 12 a. m., and 2 to 6 p. m.
Oh? What are you worried about?
We enjoy it too!
Hello, Candy. My name is Jim White. Nice to meet you.
Would you mind doing something for me?
Is it still under warranty. If it is and I can ’ t fix it, it would be quicker and easier to exchange it for a new one.
I tell you what, 800 is no good for me, but why don ’ t you guys get started and I ’ ll come by at around 8
That much! Would you mind letting me have a look at it?
Well, you know that this job center is here for your use, so help yourself. Good luck!
Do you think Mr. Johnson is a good worker?
I know what you mean. I just want to make myself more attractive.
The current rate is $ 100 per night.
No, the burn ointment seemed to take effect right away. I think it's already healed.
OK. Here's my account details.
then who will you meet tonight?
But it costs an arm and leg.
I've never really paid attention to the fine print of our insurance policies... but it looks like I'm going to need to make a claim.
It would be best if everybody could be there. How about next week sometime?
Do you have a package tour to Hollywood?
Our productivity has been down for more than six months now. I'm seriously considering pulling in an outside consultant to diagnose the cause of our problematic areas. I think we'd all benefit from an outsider's perspective. Sometimes we're just too closed to the problems to see the forest for the trees.
There is no charge for mileage. And fill up the gas when you return the car to us as it is not included.
Well, good morning, Tom. I haven't seen you for a long time.
Therefore, I hope they could help each other and learn from each other.
It is quite important to be a good listener in the interview.
Yes, I know. I think Honda is the most reliable car on the road. I would never change to anything else. The Honda I have now almost never has service problems. It runs smooth as silk.
Oh, Tom! I thought you were in Paris.
I really appreciate it. Thank you.
I'm glad you like it. I don't care for it. Why don't you finish my tiramisu so that I can try one of those fried bananas?
We would also like some alcohol before the main dish.
Yes, you are paying for it, so you get to choose. I would pick the best one.
Well, i want to go to the university flea market, they got times of books, DVDs, and a lot of nice clothing, too.
I think I know where it is. Maybe you could send me directions just to make sure.
215,000 RIB is the exact balance. If you could just sign your name here.
Well, I guess I exercise about two hours a day. I do aerobics three times a week, and the other days I play badminton with my husband. I always feel good afterward.
why don't you join us? We are leaving next week ; you'll still have a week to prepare.
Do you like the Chinese traditional silk?
But in the United States the Christmas season begins about a month before Dec. 25.
Is that including tax?
Maybe that's why some young chaps often spend a whole afternoon in a coffee bar, surfing the net or just typewriting something with laptop. While they are savoring a coffee at a leisured pace, they are actually showing off!
My grandmother thinks that honey and whiskey is a good cure for a cold.
I went out on one interview, but I haven ’ t heard back from them.
Sure does. Hey, can I sponge a little cash of you?
Well, we can proceed with the order until after the Christmas holidays. Our factories will be closed for another week.
Next, please. Hello, may I help you, sir?
No, but it's painful.
May I have your name and phone number, please?
Frankly, he is more well-behaved than you.
Please feel assured that we'll abide by our promise. And we'll do everything we can to ensure delivery.
You ’ re unbearable ; you can walk home, I ’ m leaving.
I'll give you something. I want you to take it easy and come back in a couple of days.
You need all your receipts for reimbursement.
Really? How often do you go there?
That's okay, I've got plenty of cards. Here's my VISA.
Okay, that ’ s fine.
Excuse me. Could you tell me how to get to the post office?
Since last time we've climbed the mountain, we haven't gone out for a long time.
May I have a glass of red wine, please?
Well, I would like to book a single room.
good idea. That will help us to warm up.
It looks more like a toy, or a cool briefcase!
It was great. I had a really good time.
How can we do that?
If you want spicy food, then I'd recommend going to a Thai, Indian or Chinese restaurant. How about that Chinese buffet on Cowley Road?
You know them?
Well, the pulp falls from a box onto the first part of the paper machine, which is basically a wire bed with large holes in it, where most of the water is extracted.
I was just watching a documentary on TV about how people use dogs for various purpose. It was very interesting.
Well, why don ’ t we sit down and work out the numbers? We can always scale down the bonuses if we have to.
Just so so. Last night I met this great guy at the bar and we had such a wonderful time, so we decided to meet again tonight.
The company provides labor insurance for all employees, as well as fine retirement policy.
Yes, may I have some more beer?
Do you ever have to do the night shift?
Not really. What about you?
All right, roast beef, please.And I'd like to start with soup.
What I mean is that we'll never be able to come down to your price. The gap is too great.
so, you're into 80s music then?
Aren ’ t you sweet.
Are you sure you ’ re alright. You look a bit worry today? Is anything wrong?
Do you move a lot?
Thank you for coming to see me off.
Judging by all the traffic, I'd say we're near the outskirts of the city.
What does mph stand for?
Linda, do you know Mr.Green?
Yes I see. But you decided to leave them in 2006 right.
100 yuan each, so you owe me 200 yuan.
I like beer, it's just that I get a headache when I drink more than 3.
I really don't know.
I'm afraid you'll need to have your visa extended before we can have you check in.
I look forward to more of this movie.
I ’ m fine, thanks. How is Tony?
Sure. It's an issue asking for everyone's participation.
I need two calls, one at 7 and another at 7 fifteen.
Why do you say so many thanks?
Can I help in anyway?
Hello. I need to speak with Allan Cartwright.
OK, shrimp rolls. Do you want anything else?
Anything else today?
You know in China we usually don't open presents until the guests leave.
Please show me the menu, Miss.
Of course not, we'd be happy if you could come.What time will you be able to come?
Right.It ' s important to learn the culture of a nation if you want to learn the language well.
Ok, just a moment, please. Here you are, I need you to sign here, please. And here is your refund. Is there anything else I can help you with?
All I had was a sandwich, chips, and soda.
Would she be interested in a laptop?
Well, since your order is large enough, can you give me a rough idea?
Oh, we really did have fun back then, didn ’ t we?
Is it OK to withdraw USD?
That trend has already begun in my country. In particular, there ’ s a big demand for people to work in fitness centers. Which kinds of jobs are less in demand?
God! Don't you think they should get you an assistant?
What perfect timing!
Hello, Catherine. Would you like to go out tomorrow?
Sam, what shall I do with my stocks? Will I lose money?
Absolutely unbelievable! You people should be ashamed of yourselves.
Well, I used to be size fourteen, but I've put on a bit of weight recently, so may be sixteen.
Well, at least going to college won't be too bad. Since both of your parents are college professors, they must give you reduced tuition at the college.
Listen, let's just wait until the police get here.Then we can decide whose fault this accident was.
But aren't the kids tired out? I mean, they go to school all day, and then they go to school in the evening too.
Well, we offer a 10 % charge for our members.
There is plenty of room for our king-sized bed, and I love the light in this room.
What are you doing?
Which team do you back then?
just some water, please. Do you have any ointment for my nose? It feels so itchy after blowing my nose so much.
Thanks for the compliment.
The wei-ya is the one time a year you can make fun of the boss.
Yeah, my name is Nandu.
Did you get hit?
OK, thank you, I'll try if there were other chances.
Ok kids, here ’ sa beach ball and a Frisbee, a pail and a shovel. I want to see an impressive sandcastle by the time we leave. Don ’ t stray too far. Wait! Leave your sandals here or put on your wet shoes
Could you tell me my account balance? My account number is...
Actually, I did it, but then it got lost.
How did you do it?
So won ’ t you come down any more?
Of course. Wait for a moment, please.
Listen, Ryan.Catholics welcome people who aren't Catholics to visit the church.You don't have to pretend to be Catholic. It's okay if you just come to listen.
Walker Airline Travel Agency.May I help you?
Well, I don't know the details, but...
You couldn ’ t be more wrong! A well written business plan will include an executive summary which highlights the idea of the business in two pages or less. Then you need to describe your company with information such as what type of legal structure it has, history, etc.
That's very easy. The exit is always open.
Fine! I'll reserve a table for two at 8 pm, sir. May I have your name, please?
Have you ever been to Britain?
How could you know?
Yeah. It’s exciting. This month we ’ re doing crossword puzzles.
By the middle of October. This is the best we can do.
I'm not. I just want to know.
I've just had it repainted.
Have you got a temperature?
Mr. Charles, I feel that we have had a very pleasant talk.
I see.Is it your first interview?
I mean you couldn't give it up!
Good. Is there any commission included? We are commission agents.
May I see your library card?
I'm not sure yet.
Just a little steak, uh... snack? A bowl of clam chowder?
Yes, you do. There is a 300 RIB deposit, which we will refund when you check out. So, in total, you need to pay 1388 RIB.
Admit it. You just think of Mussolini.
Yeah. He has no one to count on.
I'd better try harder to memorise my PIN in future. Thanks.
Sounds good, let me get that.
It's very “ in ” these days. Some of the places are really expensive.
I ’ ll be very glad if you would help.
You have children now. What if something, God forbid, happens to you?
He's checking bags.He ' s an official in the customs.
Where can we have the famous tea?
So what are you responsible for?
what kind of work did you do?
Yes, I can be there at 6.
Do you think I can get back to work very soon?
You bet. eBay Taiwan doesn't have it! And bidding will start at two thousand NT. This baby's worth about six thousand to real tennis fans...
I am hungry. I think I could eat a large by myself.
Well, that depends. When is it?
How long have you been in Taiwan?
My name is Helen Levin. I'm the HR director of our company.
You're actually standing above it. Just take the elevator or stairs down one level.
You usually are good about turning it in ; what happened?
Well, we apply tape and plaster to from a solid enclosure to protect the bones from moving. In this way they will heal properly. Take it easy. It won't hurt you. Let me see. The X-ray picture indicates that your humerus is broken in two places. And you'll have to wear the cast for three weeks. You'll need to come back in two weeks, so I can have another look.
Yeah, it will be fun! I have a 9mm pistol that is really easy to shoot. I also have a revolver that ’ s really fun too! They have big targets at the range that we could use to practice and improve your aim.
Neither, I prefer an active job.
really? I never would have guessed. The criminals must only come out in the evenings, because I've never noticed anything strange when I've been at your house in the daytime.
About ten.another thing is that I want an appointment with the customer at Changing hotel at three thirty this afternoon.please help me phone the customer so we can confirm now.
Hi. I want to get something nice for my niece.
A return ticket is forty-six pounds fifty.
Why don ’ t you find the information on the internet instead?
It is not an easy job. How do you like the advertisement for the new product?
I am. What ’ s more, his wife is 84.
It says ' No smoking here '.
That ' s a good one! I think that ' s pretty funny.
From 3 to 6 months if everything goes well.
Looks like the one guy lost control in all this rain, and the other one hit him.
I think that we have seen all that we need to see here. Let ’ s go look at another house.
I ’ m returning these books.
Great, then we can add everything up and take it to the bank.
You are suspected of smuggling. Do you understand your rights?
You mean, keeping a low profile in the presence of the old? That goes in like with Confucius ' preachings, right?
Do you think you'll ever get a divorce again?
In your spare time, do you have any part time jobs?
Hello, Professor, this is Kalina, and I am in your literature class on Monday mornings.
I heard that you country recently discovered deposits of precious stone.
Unfortunately, I'm leaving here unexpectedly, and I may be away for several days.
OK, what is this?
Have you started looking yet?
I will make it now.
Honey, how about taking them to the beach this weekend?
how about your new co-workers?
That's no problem at all. May I have your name, please?
Recliner? In my beautifully decorated living room? I don ’ t think so!
I don't want any other woman.
What price do you suggest for 300,000 sets of Article No. 2323 with London as the destination port?
Nearby, on the banks of the thames, there ’ s the statue of Boadicea. She fought the Romans when they invaded Britain.
Come in! Quickly!
Everything was okay when it started, but the music made me drowsy. So I think I may have dozed off for a minute over there.
A growing keep-fit fever is sweeping over China.
I have fewer hobbies than yours. That's why I find campus life a bit dull and uninteresting.
Yes. When is the next train to New York City?
Mom, the water is boiling!
You know, my dad had scrambled eggs every morning for twenty years. It drove my mom crazy!
Okay, well I ’ m sure you have a number of questions to ask me regarding the position.
Really! I've never seen so much work.
Is 5 PM. Saturday a good time for you?
I like horror movies because I like to be scared.
I remember the first time I went. My back was sore, I couldn't sit down because it hurt my butt, and my legs would cramp if I walked too fast.
To speak frankly, it doesn't depend on me.
No, a lot of women stay home and take care of their families. But some work.
I think It’s good, and it suits me, because I'm not good at cooking. Is it expensive?
Are you referring to KC getting her head stuck in the pant leg?
Yes. You've got to cut down on bread and potatoes and take more exercise.
Mario and I are the best students in the class. Miss Parker says that my pronunciation is very good.
See, I helped you out.
Wow, you are going to be busy this semester! Okay, here you go. You are registered now, you ’ ll have to make your first tuition payment before classes start.
I'm afraid not, sir. Generally we can, but you know how it is in the rush hour now.
Okay. I ’ Ve signed it.
It should be under Leslie Smith. The number is 184796 A.
We'll get in touch with you by next Wednesday. Thank you for your interest in this job.
That's OK. We can go jogging, after we eat!
Really? What's the series about?
I have been working here for 5 years.
Who was your vote for President?
Yes. I want to apply for a job you posted on the Internet yesterday.
Did they find those bank robbers?
Many thanks for your present. I'm so glad you are able to come.
Well, good-bye. See you soon.
Honey, I have a lot of work to do.
Good morning, miss.
Hey, Ken... I need to talk to you.
How long will it take to get them dry?
Really? Where does he fly? Does he fly to other countries?
Down here, 800 dollars. How do you wish to settle your account, sir, in cash or by credit card?
Can you make a suit for me to measure?
You, of course, have two ways of responding. You can say yes or come up with another offer.
What exactly seems to be the matter?
that sounds OK. So, we start here at the car park and walk along the path to the waterfall.
That ’ s one of the conditions of my police too. It covers you if you die before you retire and when you retire.
In that case, let me make a quick change into my street clothes.
It would take a lot less time...
Is it worth seeing?
Here you are. Thank you and goodbye.
And we were going to make a collage for each of us using our baby pictures...
You have a choice of vegetables, green peas, lima beans or spinach.
It's weekend again, I'm glad I can arrange for my personal matters.
I made a reservation three days ago.My name is George Smith.
It won't turn on if the cords aren't connected.
Well, it costs an arm and a leg — 30 yuan per person. What a costly sport! That is why I have to refrain from even thinking about it. And I find jogging a very agreeable substitute.
So they are two totally different concepts.
It's for a job. It looks perfect for you.
OK. How about Dongpo meat?
Have you any idea of the prices of ruby and diamond?
I wouldn ’ t do that if I were you. There is a severe penalty if you get caught making false statements.
Surely not. I can feel the results. I'm starting to feel different now.
Are you doing anything tomorrow?
OK, I will register you in our database system. What's your name, please?
Good for you, but your leaving will be a great loss to us. It is so nice to work with you.
Some people have satellite and cable Tv in my country, but people don ’ t seem to keen to pay for their Tv programs. Besides, the terrestrial channels offer a good range of programs.
Both kinds of food are becoming popular. Nowadays, It’s very easy to pick up the ingredients at the supermarket.
What should I do, doctor?
I'm surprised. He does't look like a guy who'd ever cheat on his wife, does he?
I am so sorry to hear that. Is that enough?
Exactly what kind of help did you have in mind?
Yes, that hurts quite a lot.
How nice it is here.
Happy to see you.
I will explain the problem briefly. We found in the examination that 35 % of the goods have damaged.
Don't be so modest. I'm sure you can dance it very well. Let's dance it now.
Have you any particular color in mind?
There are passes for a day, month, and week, and there are student passes.
How about a delicious dessert then, with our compliment?
I'm a graduate student here in mathematics. I've just come from China and I've never used a western library before. I'll be here for five years, so I'd like to learn to use the library as efficiently as possible. I wonder if someone might have time to show me around.
Our travel agency provides all kinds of tours, ranging from individual tour to group package tour.
Okay, I will try it on.
How was your flight?
Are you kidding? It's winter. Why would I open it?
That's a good idea. You have a lot of good fashion sense.
Mom, where are you going?
We will begin next Monday. Would you be available then?
I ’ m afraid I ’ m not interested in fashion.
Which websites offer this service?
Is there anything else, sir?
You are welcome
What do you think about all the different diets that people go on?
Here. Put this wet towel on your face to keep your temperature down. I ’ ll take you to the doctor ’ s after breakfast.
That sounds fine. What time shall we meet at the bus stop?
Are you going to helen ’ s birthday party on Friday evening?
Let's go to another place where my friend is working, let me pay here.
Wow, talk about job perks! That's great. I would like to do something exciting like that.But I am only an accountant.Not too much excitement there.huh?
Yeah, several of those civil wars have been going on for years and years. It seems they will never end.
Yes, I am going to vote.
That depends. Our repayment plans go from 1 year to 10 years. The Fixed Asset Loan is a long-term loan, you see. The loan can be paid in either monthly or quarterly instalments, to suit your needs.
Yes, but we shouldn't get any thing too big. Remember it has to fit in with our living room furniture.
Can I get on line to search one, too?
Okay. Please sign here in this form.
You'll get bored eventually.
You're going to lift weights? Hah!
She's about 5 feet even.
But it matches my major.
What a coincidence seeing you here.!
I will meet you at the real estate office.
are the rooms nice and bright?
Really? You're joking.
This way, please. Your box number is 522.
Of course, they are out there.
His car was hit by an express train. It happened at the crossing just behind his house.
What ’ s the matter with it?
We will go to climb up the hill tomorrow. Let's go to supermarket to buy some food.
A girl he met on holiday in Spain, I think.
Okay. Here you are.
to be honest, I'm really fed up with work at the moment. I need a break!
thanks. This is so exciting. Sleep tight and sweet dreams!
But how much discount can I get if I use it to buy goods next time?
Just plug in a peripheral CD or floppy drive and you're ready to go!
Thank you, but I prefer the fish.
Be prompt. Don't forget to be friendly and interested. Listen carefully and listen to what they are really asking you. You'll be a hit!
Sure. I'll be there as soon as I finish this document.
I'm not good at sports, I have never played tennis, and I know I would be terrible.
Certainly. I'll do it for you right away. Sorry the drugs on this order are out of stock.
How about anything for dessert like an apple pie or ice cream?
And to get it, we have to beat WebTracker to the punch.
Have you switched on the radiator?
When I entered the room, I forgot to close the door. Later, I couldn ’ t help smoking, you know I am a heavy-smoker. What ’ s more, I forgot to polish my shoes. There is some dirt on it.
Hello, stewardess. Could you bring me a blanket? I feel so cold.
Thanks. Which kind of medicine do you prefer, western medicine or traditional Chinese medicine?
Certainly. What's the matter?
poor you. It seems we are in the same boat.
OK. I know what to do now. Thank you.
Yes. Does it operate night and day?
Yes. We have socks made of various materials. These socks are of imported wool.
Lousy weather, isn't it?
Have you thought about the cost?
I learnt nursing through theory and practice for 3 years at Hunan Nursing School.
Thank you for calling the Twin Theatre.
Could you tell us your specials today?
let ’ s go together.
OK, the postage is 275 yuan.
You have done an excellent job this year and we are pleased with the results.
Excuse me, how long is the flight to Phoenix?
OK, they begin to register.
There is a football match.
A really dreadful accident and many people were killed.
What's the problem? We really can't have any delays at this stage. We're working to a really tight schedule and we're already over budget.
yes, I went there once last summer.
I'll give him a call.
I just did what I should have done.
I'm fed up with his endless talking.
At school, we sometimes have Chinese food for lunch.
Great. I look forward to meeting you.
How much antifreeze did you put in your new car then? You must have to keep it well below zero.
What difference does it make?
I ’ m hungry, let ’ s grab a bite to eat.
Yes. I'd like a table for six at 7:00 this evening. Can you arrange it for us?
When do you have to be there.
Welcome to our factory.
In a few weeks. Are you planning on watching them?
Thank you very much. See you then.
Did you have a certain movie in mind?
Is Marisa in?
I'm Chen Liang.
That's cool, does your personal trainer basically teach you how to work out?
No, she is an English teacher.
( My telephone number is ) 139xxxxx345.
Hello. Can I speak to Alice, please?
You will be going northwards. You are now in the the Western part of the city and the Allied Irish Bank is situated in the North East. Here's a rough sketch of the area.
In the early 70s. We ’ ll soon be celebrating the 30th anniversary.
How long would surface mail take, compared with airmail?
Well, let me check for you. Yes, you are booked already. It's a single room with a bath, facing the south.
It’s all right, though. Just get off at the next stop and catch the 79A.
Let me think about it for a minute. Let's see... oh the name of the restaurant is on the tip of my tongue! Give me a second and it'll come to me.
Almost ready. Could you set the table?
You have to pay the electricity bill yourself, but water is paid.
We have movie channel packages.
Not much, except that my mother-in-law is driving me up the wall.
that's not just your boss. No one is allowed to send personal emails from the office.
Excuse me, do you have any English songs?
Have you checked the computer?
have you ever been denied a visa before?
What if I stay up and do something, until I get tired?
Titanic made a hit! It was so touching.
You have to pay attention to trimming them from time to time.
Would you please open the suitcase? What are these?
I'm calling about our appointment. I can't call on you this evening.My wife is terribly ill.
You're right. I will have a talk to her about that.
Is this Zhang Lin's home?
Oh, yeah, smarty-pants? Over my dead body. Now, don't be such a brat and...
How about these? They are the current bestsellers.
You can be sure of that, sir.
I ’ m afraid... be can returned by eleven o ’ clock.
Fine! Please place your items on the belt and push your shopping cart through. Do you prefer paper or plastic?
I'll need a coach open return. What's the fare?
It's not just that. She also criticizes how we raise the kids.
I think I would like the former one.
Oh. Have you finished listing your study preferences?
I know only too well what that's like.
Yes, but not too stiff, right?
It's possible because everyone wants to travel during the holiday weekend.
But there's no hot water after 10 at night.Sometimes I like to have a hot shower before bed, especially in the winter, it feels good.
Ashes to ashes and dust to dust...
She's gone to a flower shop. Today is her husband's birthday.
Jennifer, there ’ s something I wanna ask you.
Daddy, what seasonings are you going to cook the meat with?
Do you think it's a good option for health and relaxation?
Yes, you have a high fever. I'd like to give you a blood test.
Well, what about price?
Alright, sir. You are making a good choice. Honda has made a lot of design improvements in the new Accord.
You think it's better that he should be told?
Hey, Tom. I saw this ad in the paper. You should take a look.
They ’ re in that drawer.
Hmm... I think I am ready for a new challenge. I've put a good team together at my present company, and I think If I want to take the next step in my career, it's time for me to move on.
I believe I will.
Oh John, I thought we said we would start eating right! Remember? Our new healthy lifestyle? That ’ s all junk food!
Good evening, sir. I come to make the bed. Shall I do it now or later?
no, we're not. We've been drifting apart for a while.
Before we draft the contract, let's examine the details.
Which services offered by your band do you use most?
Sir, our guests are our reason for being.
Thanks, Professor. I'll make sure everything gets taken care of.
I liked it.
You do have great taste. That's the most expensive stuff here.
Hello. I'd like to send 600 RIB in cash to my daughter. How long will it take for her to receive the money?
It's nothing. Did your doctor explain to you about what operation you are going to have?
I really don ’ t know. I don ’ t think we ’ ll win many gold medals, but I think we should win several silver and bronze ones.
I don't know about that, but I do think that it helps people relax.
Yes, can I return this article, please?
That's not bad.What about the price? Did she tell you how much her friend wants for the car?
How about meeting each other half-way in order to conclude the business?
So no more regret now?
They need to be washed on the gentle cycle.
no, the burn ointment seemed to take effect right away. I think it's already healed.
You are married to a foreigner, huh? So what ’ s it like?
Oh, dear. How can I wait for such a long time?
well, I think I was being a little selfish myself. I know they don't get to see each other very often.
OK. We will try some.
I want to buy some running shoes. Maybe New Balance.
May I see your passbook.
It may not be the best choice for me, but I am considering it.
I want to buy a new camcorder for my trip this summer.
Don't worry about the bill. Just call.
Mike, these flowers are just gorgeous.
Oh, did he?
It’s as plain as the nose on your face. They ’ re dating each other.
Sure. What would you want to have today, Chinese food or western food?
How much is it? Eight films and a bar of chocolate.
Did you see that?
Professor, do you have a few moments when I could meet with you?
Yes, I have brought them with me. Here they are.
Don't you have a garage?
tomorrow I have an appointment with my dentist. What about next Monday?
Thanks for inviting me. And happy birthday, Julia.
What do you think is the most important thing for you to be happy?
Would you like to have a drink?
Yes, do you like it? I added a little extra lemon grass and some sea vegetables.
We have been riding this bus for a long time.
You'd like coffee, wouldn't you?
Good evening. Room Service. May I help you?
You must have bought many things in the mall?
Royal Hotel, can I help you?
I will go trade those pancakes for waffles right now.
Not anymore. They live with my brother now. and yours?
It's seriously good.
No. That price would hardly cover the cost.
I want you to put your hands behind your head! You are under arrest!
Why did you choose Beijing University?
Yes. I'm going to give you some.Take one tablet of this medicine three times a day before meals. For that one, two tablets. And remember to come to the out patient department for a consultation in two weeks, please.
No problem. I can deal with it well.
I only saw bushes at the intersection.
Once our President lowers gas prices, I'll be driving again.
Yes, I think I am. Let's meet for lunch at mouth restaurant.
Have a nice evening.
What do you think I should do?
Sir, are you sure you haven't seen the same silverfish nine times?
What kind of deal?
Would you go to the bookstore with me?
Well, let me see. Now it's 11:00 sharp. It's a long way to go.If I take the shortest route, we may come across a traffic jam.If I take a less heavy route, it will save us 10 or more minutes, but you'll have to pay more. Which do you prefer?
In the beginning of the interview, greet the interviewer with a kind smile.
It's about 200 years old. It has a lot of history!
Yeas, It is.Sewen Jes speaking.How can I help?
No, Nancy, today I'm here to make a withdrawal. I made a formal request 7 days ago.
And we'll have a great turkey dinner at around four o'clock. My brother and his family will be joining us. I look forward to meeting them. Well, it's late, so I'll say good night. I'll see you early tomorrow, so I can share your Christmas morning.Good night!
I ’ ll hire you anyway.
I'm a newspaper columnist. I write comments for a living. I enjoy working in a coffeehouse.
How is it done?
Hi. Last month, our company, Turner Interiors of Beijing, ordered some documents under our new L / C. What I want to do is check and see if the documents have arrived yet.
An old book Death on the Nile.Have you read it?
OK, don ’ t worry about it. I will.
It doesn't matter much. If it has high quality and reasonable price, it will be OK.
Yes, I could sing it when I was very young.
Is that room service?
Just joking. I would like to get a few bottles of beer though. We also need a liter of cooking oil.
Very good. How much does that cost?
You're right, that is great.
Yes he ' s in his office.
No, have you?
I made strawberry shortcake.
Don't forget to call your host mother to tell her.
No, you're right. But nudity doesn't bother me. What bothered me were all the jokes about masturbation, stuff like that. It was too sick.
Well, they're trying to repair it, sir. But to tell you the truth, you need a new car.
It's just down the hall, the fourth door on your right.
You know, no one else who has been in that apartment has had a problem before.
So who does he think he is, anyway, I can't believe the way that my boss has been ordering everyone around lately, I mean, it's now like he is the CEO, or anything.
Are you even going to go?
Do I have to wear ear muffs and gloves? I am not used to working with them on.
What can I see in Beijing?
Oh, I ’ m sorry to hear that. I think you ’ d better talk to the police officer walking there.
I mean which ones are they better at than men?
Oh, I'm shocked.
Would you mind telling me if this is the right way to the police station?
Good afternoon, anything I can do for you?
Does he have a moustache or a beard?
To be honest, I care only about whether I can have some delicious candy eat. I couldn't care less about whether the shop is popular or not.
Oh, no. I forgot to turn the alarm clock on!
How can I see test results from tests I have taken before?
Fine! What do you need?
Let me see. There ’ s the news section, the entertainment section, sports, business, and world affairs.
I'm sorry. You are going in the wrong direction.
It's straight down this road on the left, next to the museum. It takes about 10 minutes.
I was thinking $ 800 a month.
If it is the post office's fault, may I have an extension on my bill?
Where are you going now.
Okay. Do you have your receipt?
I'm going to prescribe some antibiotics and some cream to ease the itching and burning.
Are all these helpful for the interview?
Sorry, miss. I'm afraid we don't have any on hand today.
That ’ s great! I can have two bags checked for 70 pounds each. I think I ’ m all set. You ’ re really efficient. Thank you very much for your help.
Between Second and Third Streets. The store is across from the hotel.
I've just been reading an article about them.they ' ll be used for all sorts of things now.
Thank you very much for doing this interview.
Open you suitcase, please.
What sort of salary did you get at your previous job?
What's the problem, Nada? You look down in the dumps.
You deserve credit, too. I've learned so much from You.
Can you supply us right away?
What advantages does it have?
Really? Tell me about it. What's it like?
We do not want you to sign any documents that you do not understand. You may get assistance with any questions that you have.
how are you doing, Christopher?
You look so happy. I see a twinkle in your eyes.
Oh, my God! John, I didn ’ t know you are religious. You just look like a scientific kook, like Leonard in the Big Bang Theory.
They say we can't. They don't look after customers ' stuff.
Certainly. What kind of room would you like?
1 %? That ’ s too low a rate. Could you see your way to increase it to 2 %?.
Here is the money.
Actually, many Taiwanese wake up late on Sunday mornings, too. It may be a good idea for them to eat brunch instead of eating breakfast and lunch.
And do you have the Letter of Acceptance from the University with you?
Almost a week.
Did you get a copy of the Herald too?
Okay, sir. Have a pleasant evening.
I know the marketing from top to bottom and I can develop a new market for you.
What else did you see?
now let's have one together.
By the way, could you give me a manicure? Use a light nail-polish, please.
Now, how about going for a swim in the sea? We shouldn ’ t sunbathe all day.
Well, we've been waiting for our luggage for about one hour.
OK, I'll come back to discuss it to some details after our users have studied your catalogues and price list.
She had a sudden heart attack.
Yes, with pleasure.
Tell us about some cold cities.
But that'll affect the national economy.
Yes, hello, I would like to make a reservation please.
May I know the definite date of delivery?
Yes, it's from Satura Beds of Tokyo.
O. K. Well, go to google.com, and type in “ Battle of Gettysburg. ”
You really need to look at some of the problems we are having with the apartment.
Sorry to hear that, I was really looking forward to spending some more time with you, I really enjoyed our last chat.
Is the security door useful?
Wait a minute. This is your safe box key, don't lose it. You'll have to pay two thousand yuan if you lose the key.
What do you think of the play showed last night?
Why don't you go out with Jack?
Yeah, at least when we are children, we have not so much homework to do.
Yes, I hope so. I would like to register for Comp Lit 287.
How about 10 am?
I want to have a two-day trip around the city.
I'll have the baked salmon.
What? Are you crazy?
Oh no. My family supports me. And believe me, changing foreign money into dollars is heart-breaking. You seem to get so little in return.
Yes, I like the style.Can I try this on?
No, I'll do it myself.
Oh yeah, no problem. Would you mind if we borrowed a few of the chairs from the lunchroom.
It's still very far away.
I think I have traits of both, actually. I look more like my mother.
many say more development opportunities can be found there.
Our trip to Italy! I remember that day. We were going to visit the Trev fountain, and we got caught in the rain...
Why don ’ t you recommend one to me?
Can I get an extension on my bill if it does happen to be the post office's fault?
Hmm. That sounds pretty oppressive for the kids. Don't they ever relax?
Thank you. See you later.
Thanks. It's rather cold this morning, wouldn't you say?
For me? The football games of course, I love football games.
Oh, please come in. nice to see you.
How do you like fox-trot?
Good afternoon! Did you call for a plumber?
How long would you like to stay with this company?
You can twist his arm in order to have a control of him.
Don't mention it. It’s my pleasure.
Great, I like the idea of trying some new food.
Hey Lisa... want to grab lunch with me?
You do know that it's absolutely freezing out, don't you? I'd put a coat on if I were you.
But she did and made me disappointed.
You did a wonderful job.
Excuse me, sir. Is this a duty-free shop?
Yeah, sure. Your total is seventy-eight dollars and thirty-three cents. Here is your receipt. Have a nice day.
Highway miles are not as bad as local miles. They do not hurt car as much.
Oh yeah. The big napkin goes on my lap.
No, he's from Australia. Before I met him, I thought Australians were supposed to be relaxed and easy-going. I had no idea he'd be so fussy about things.
Do you get along well with each other?
And when is the closing date?
Do you think I should join the basketball team, Mary?
His mom and dad must be destroyed. He was their only son.
Thank you very much, doctor.
Yes. That is something I will enjoy.
That means 25 cents for each late book.
I guess so. I am badly off and I need this job.
That actual bus pass is free.
Too bad. I did anyway.
Don ’ t forget that horses are still used in many countries to pull ploughs and carts.
A $ 100 000 policy shouldn't be too expensive. Here, call my agent. He'll give you a good deal.
When I went up there, it wasn't full at all.
Zhang, Z, H, A, N, G.
This is a small group of people-perhaps 25 mp ’ s who are usually ministers. They make all the big decision and discuss laws and policy.
Can I have it delivered the day after tomorrow?
The environment varies greatly because of difference in language, customs and traditions.
Really? I've seen that movie, too.
Yes, he does. He of ten has had one to many. But I advised him not to drink too much, he just boasted that he had hollow legs and nobody had ever drunk him under the table.
Because I admire your company. Yours is one of the most effective and respectable companies in this city.
Beyond diet, what else can I do to be healthy?
Hi, Nancy. Come in please. I'm just putting away on my books.
We need lots of things. I ’ ll make a list. We need a bag of sugar, a loaf of bread and a crate of beer.
The price factor can be a useful instrument for exporters when trying to place their products in industrialized countries. Of course, marketing goods abroad is not only a question of price. There are also other important factors such as design, quality of goods, terms of sale, transport and insurance.
No, I am not. And I love to meet new people in the chat rooms who share a lot in common with me.
I've got a letter from my bank here. It shows I am able to support myself during these three years of studies.
How do I take the tablets?
Right. Let's go and find some fun.
No. It'll only take about five minutes to walk.
Not really. It's a dull one, and the production isn't satisfactory, either.
Why don ’ t you find a new career where you can do what you enjoy, being outside working during the day?
I own a small rental unit with a partner, and I receive five hundred dollars a month from that unit.
Well, it gives me money, but it's my own money.
Yes, I have a very special one. I will be doing volunteer work in a zoo for two weeks. A friend of mine working there told me the other day that they were in need of some volunteer keepers. I was very interested. So I asked him to get me the application form. Lucky, my application was approved by the manager very soon.
You have your own vehicle?
Would you mind if I ask the insurance policy of our company?
One dollar... I'm short of change this morning.
There's a petite section that you an check out.
Ok, I ’ m going to stay up awhile. I ’ Ve got to go over the household budget, We ‘ re a little over-spend this month.
I really can't wait that long. Are there any other buses that can take me there?
You have a lot of gifts, so you have to pay for the camera.
why? You mean a lot to me.
OK. Let's do it together.
Oh, yes. I get six Korean channels but nothing in English!
My name is Bruce Green.
You are, why not ask for a date?
Welcome to our bar!
No. And on the contrary, I feel young, fresh and energetic.
you dance beautifully too.
Only $ 308 per night, before taxes, of course.
Yeah, it's really convenient. The theater and Shopping Mall are within walking distance. Well, I got to go. I'll get in touch with you soon.
It costs $ 65 to buy a monthly pass.
Do you mean a further reduction of 50 dollars in our price? That's impossible!
Maybe I'll be the one.
My present pay is 100,000 Yuan per year.
Let me see if he is free. Would you please sit down and wait for a moment?
It will be hard to say good-bye. This office has become like a second home to me.
What do you think of the leading actors?
That's great. We should visit him some time.
Fine, five more minutes.
What's the temperature today anyway?
Why don't you stick with one job for a bit longer?
I ’ ll just cancel your account right now.
Where exactly is the pipe?
This is room 1425.We asked for the room service an hour ago.
OK, we will let you know as early as possible. By the way, will we be able to get a refund on this cancellation?
Where ’ s the laundry room?
That ’ s the really hard to say. I think most people earn about two thousand dollars a month, if you convert the money from our currency into dollars.
Five days ' time will be OK.
taking the subway would be a lot less stressful than driving as well.
I'm fine, thanks. Just trying to get adjusted. It's hard to keep track of everything around here.
I'm more worried about snipers.
How do you do? I'm Bob Evans.
Did he want to know the reasons?
OK, so here ’ s the plan ; When we land, run to gate 14!
Yes, I was taking a shower when you called. I saw that you called and I tried to call you back, but I think your phone was off.
OK. I like the design of this lamps. I also need some cushion covers. I ’ ll just browse through those ones over there.
Sure, why not. Sounds like fun. Why are you going to church?
Hello, I'd like to open an account.
The pedal on your left is the brake and the one on your right is the gas.
We hope this matter will not affect our good relations in our future dealings.
Which stop do I get off on?
Can I test it out?
Did it scare you?
Jack's been looking unhappy lately.
have you ever been to Disneyworld?
no, we didn ’ t. I guess you ’ re right. We should patch things up.
Yes I have. I went to the table tennis yesterday.
Yes. You are free to do temporary business with this visa. If you were planning on setting up a new business in the U. S. you might need to apply for a long-term visa.
Oh, lots of things. Mostly training new people.
Is it a non-stop flight?
I usually only drink beer and I rarely drink more than a few pints.
That ’ s right, once a week. Do you want to order some pizza?
You are right. We ’ re hoping that this is a long-term opportunity, and just a flash in the pan.
All right, thank you so much, good-bye.
Don't you dare tell me that...
Will you give the bill to me at around six o'clock?
Yes, what is it?
Gate 29C. Have a nice flight.
Whatever you wear, it should perfectly reflect your confidence and vitality
We can help you find local information about available jobs and workshops.
No, I don't. But I never went into a gay bar before.
Well, they're really beautiful people.
Good morning, mom.
If you want some changes, just tell me.
Mr. Emory? I think It’s time to get a new computer.
We're already late, so I think we had better take a taxi.
School. Since I was working part time, I had a difficult time keeping up with class. Now that we have exams coming up, I'm totally freaking out.
Wonderful! Do you already have your work schedule?
I think it's about time that we had to go.
The area can be a bit rough in the evenings, but the neighbors watch out for each other, so It’s ok.
What's wrong with MSG? It helps to bring out the taste of the food.
Sandra is actually blue chipper. I don't think she could realize that she has married a fool for women.
Can you tell me how many goods you intend to order?
Not in the new apartment. We have to leave the car in the parking lot.
You mean dozens of the opposite sex meet each other for three minutes in a dimly bar serving alcohol, I hate that idea.
you need to take some breaks throughout the day. Studying all day isn ’ t very usually effective.
Nice to meet you, Lean. My name is Alike. I'm from Japan.
I'll be waiting for you in our office about nine o'clock.
Yes... I wouldn ’ t recommend it.
Veronica! Veronica! Veronica! Are you OK?
Is there anything else wrong with it?
I know. But I don't have someone to diet with. If we help each other and motivate each other, then I think we can lose some weight.
how did that happen?
What do you recommend? We'd like some of your local specialities.
I am very happy to know my work could be recognized by you and our company.
I think I am very good at planning. I manage my time well so that I can always get things done on time.
Good coming. Are you through with the cleaning? If not, we'll come back a little later.
Do you mind if I ask you a question?
Yeah, sure, you won't be disappointed.
Why should I buy this MD player?
It's such a nice change.
Thank you. Now I know how to travel by air.
Hey, Teresa, meet the new neighbors yet?
You ’ re welcome. Have a nice day.
How about the Korean restaurant next to it?
Everyone has a one-week waiting period before they can collect.
You see. I made what I consider to be a reasonable offerbased upon the rise in production costs and the continued fall in the exchange rate of Australian Dollar to U. S. Dollar.
The hours couldn't be better, 24/7.
The other night when you came home there was lipstick on your right cheek. How do you explain that?
I got it. Don't worry, just a common cold.
No. But it is said the welfare in Canada is very good.
That will be great.
Alright. I'll have a cup of tea waiting for you.
Just tell him off.
I know. i could not believe it when i got hit by that storm.it was pouring with rain all afternoon.
Which tests do you mean?
I usually ride my bike. Which form of transport do you prefer to use?
I think this is it. Get off.
It's very quick and easy. It just takes 24 hours, we guarantee that. All you need to do is fill in this slip and we can proceed.
No. I'm sure I know her.
"What about the expression "" goodbye ""? Is that an idiom? "
Hello. I've been told to come in and see someone about my L / C. I just had a message to come in and see someone called Kristy.
Don't worry, sir. I think it's a seller's market right now. Let me get down some information about your apartment first. what is your property's address?
This one. Two male grad students seeking roommate.Must be quiet. Comfortable downtown apartment.Does this mean I have to share a room with them?
Can I also get some souvenirs there?
Exactly! Oh, my god! I love Britney! I'm going to get it.
I'll never again come to your side ; I am turn away now and can't return.
What's it about?
that's true. I guess it would be difficult to have people taking pictures of you everywhere you go.
We are going to the concert this evening. Will you join us?
Yes.May I help you?
With the cost of gasoline these days, that is a big plus. I think this model may be just what I'm looking for.
Ah, great! I'll send someone over to pick it up. Thanks for calling.
That is awesome. Congratulations! I know you can make it.
Thanks for saying. Do you have any ideas which necklace I should wear?
It's a brand-new Seiko wrist watch.
We just decided to stop seeing each other. It was all very amicable. Are you still going out with mike?
Hey, I play basketball with a bunch of friends twice a week. It's great exercise and it's fun too. Why don't you come out and play with us?
Sure, what room number is it?
I don't feel bored at all. I'm getting along with my colleagues. I will enjoy working with them. People are great in this industry.
Will you be paying some of that off today?
All right. I'll do my best.
No, thanks. I ' Ve had enough. I'll have my bill, please.
Please drop it at the front desk when you leave the hotel.
Sure. I didn ’ t know you liked mysteries.
People who are honest, dedicated to their work and have integrity.
Alright. Buy it then. I won't buy anything. Well, maybe I'll buy some Cognac.
it's about 200 years old. It has a lot of history!
Please send up a bottle of champagne, lobster tail, and filet mignon, medium rare.
Sir, each copy is ten cents or one dime, whichever you prefer.
R :: Thank you, sir. For which date and how many guests will there be in your party?
OK. I'd like to book a ticket for this one.
Ok, but how long I have to wait, it is going to be more than 30 minutes.
Good morning. I'd like to cash this check.
The trust game was your favorite, huh? My favorite part was the personality tests. I think to know more about what kind of personality type you are will tell you a lot about how you can fit into a team.Also, when you know the personality strengths of your colleagues, it helps you understand them better.
Hey! I'm trying to be nice, and you still want to fight! Did you get the statue or not?
What's the weather like?
But you didn't eat anything today.
They are two cameras.
Do you have a good English-Chinese dictionary?
No. It's out of the question.
OK, it's my fault. I'll stay here and look after our stuff. You can get in, shopping with Daniel and May.
The usual guys, so you better use a sharp pencil.
I was thinking it could take place sometime in January.
Do you like climbing?
Satin is like silk, Ma'am. It feels like silk. But it's a different material.
Not quite yet.
I see, sir. Those two ladies in front of your room did the same thing twenty minutes ago.
Thank you for your hospitality. I hope I didn't cause you too much trouble during my stay.
I don't think so either.
that'd be great. What kind of camera do you have?
It was for my Master Card.
Mike, come and look at this painting of shrimp! It is so simple yet so vivid!
Oh dear. I wanted AUD. Is that not possible?
Certainly. First, I would like to ask you some questions to identify your needs before I show you what we have.
Thank you so much. I can't take this.
I went to see it the day it came out.
The flight number is Cz353. it departs at 17:10 and arrives at 45.
No, no. I am okay. It's the weather. It was warm and sunny this morning and now it's chilly and raining.
You don't really believe in all that hocus pocus mumbo jumbo, do you?
What if we want to take a vacation? Who will we leave it with? Plus, our apartment is too small for that breed of dog.
Yes. I have no plans.
Do you think that the service at post offices has improved?
Well. In that case we can offer you a private educational loan.
How long has your sister been with her boyfriend?
If everyone turned up, it would be a squeeze, but a few people said that they couldn ’ t go, so I think it should be ok?
Yes. I'd like your breakfast special, please.
I'm so familiar with her songs, but I don't know what kind of person she is in real life.
I know, our schedules are so weird. Sometimes, the little corner store is the only thing within walking distance that ’ s open when we get home.
Yes, of course. You would be responsible for the development of software products.
What fees are you referring to?
I won ’ t go any lower than $ 1050.
We can sleep together.
How much money should I insert in the slot?
Thanks a lot. Oh, excuse me. Can I take two value meals? And I want some chili paste.
Well, if you live in other as long enough you love them just as much.
Christmas Day is coming. I want to buy several postcards to send to my family and friends. Can you recommend me some?
Hello. I need to reserve a room.
No, you mustn't sit on the grass.Don ' t you see the notes?
Yeah. But his relation with Sally come to a sticky end and was found by his wife.
My domicile is Beijing.
Toilets are in the rear. I'm afraid all the toilets are fully occupied at the moment.
Thanks a lot. Here's ten yuan. Keep the change.
Yes, I have purposefully done some homework in advance.
I can't finish this steak.
I want to skip desert.That all, thank you.
Yeah, It’s 30 percent off the regular price.
Julia and Anne have both taken dance lessons.They want to be famous dancer, I think.
OK, so this is the main factory area. We're now walking past the printing machine. It's printing in four colours at the moment.
So you must be very familiar with export procedures.
I know. Stay with me. She then decided to get her revenge by revealing the company secret and killing the boss. First, though, she had to discover her true cat nature. At the end she had a big fight with Sharon Stone, who was the real danger in the company. She had actually murdered the boss, who was her husband, and then tried to frame Batwoman for the murder, so everyone thought Batwoman was evil.
Oh, what's up?
It took them four minutes to get here. That was pretty fast.
You can search for jobs on the computers at the EDD offices.
You might lose the file you were working on, but don't worry, the help desk can restore it. When did you last take a backup?
I'm not practicing enough.
Yeah.Maybe I can find my favorite car in addition to Honda.
Is a view important to you, or would you rather be located on a lakeshore lot?
One of many abundant resources, I'd like to point out.
Could you make it up by attending my other section this week?
What about the next day?
Give me a pack of first-class stamps, please.
ok, where and when should I meet you?
Now, Mr. Smith, could you fill out this registration form, please?
Shall I make some coffee, Jane?
There were a lot of talks during the Bush administration about a not too distant future Mars mission. It seemed to fizzle out. Do you think that this Shuttle mission will reignite the public's passion for space and get us to Mars sooner?
they're related to one another, yes.
Hey, I am a pretty cool guy. I will make friends, and I'll have a lot of extracurricular activities too. You know, like fencing, or theater or something.
How long are you staying in Britain?
What would a typical day be like for me here?
But I'd prefer to stay at home and have a good rest.
what a confidence! I always watch a lot of movies, too.
We both may be snakes, Dave, but I'm just better at it. Among the snakes, I'm the sneakiest.
I don't think fish would like them. Instead, they love earth worms.
Yes, I agree.
Yes. I remember now. We put it off. I did make a mistake. But how shall we deal with the tickets?
Thank you so much for helping me.
On the bus. The driver collects the fares. You'll have to take your luggage on board.
Maybe not. Could you buy some while you're out?
Hello, Mr Hong. What can I do for you?
what's wrong, Jerry? You look so upset.
Neither am I. so a small place is ok, but we'll get a bigger one if it's not expensive. Do you mind if it's in a noisy area.
congratulations! You must be very proud of your achievement.
Not bad. I heard you are going to graduate this coming summer, right?
What kind of room would you like, Ma ’ am? We got single rooms, double rooms, standard rooms, suites and deluxe suites.
Every country should face the history.
All right. You have a hamburger without mustard. Anything else?
Spread some jam, please.
Hi Jackie. You don't look too well. What's going on?
Wow... this shirt is nice, but looks big.
Here are your menus and the wine menu, and would you like to order your drinks now?
Yes, it is. I'm Jennifer. Nice to meet you.
This is Mrs Smith, may I have your name?
I want to fetch them in 3 days.
That's better. I like travelling.
Not exactly. Our address is ' www. zhilian-zhaopin. com. CN '.
OK. I will.
You are smart. The city is really charming at night.
Do you drive a car yourself?
It's a good way to save money.
Of course, you can. Please put your articles in this bag and seal it.
In the market. Any problem?
When do you start the payment then?
So the apartment comes unfurnished?
I didn't know that bus went to the Gold Line station.
In a couple of days, I was told.
Looks not bad.
I'd like to try a new hair-style. Could you show me some pictures of hair styles?
And what ’ s Mrs. King doing?
Sure.Can you get it yourself, It’s in the refrigerator.
I'm looking for a good multivitamin. Can you recommend one?
Then what about SICC ( Strikes, Riots and Civil Commotions )? Can we request you to cover this for our imports?
Sure, we call it doubt.
We're supposed to check in at the Air China's counter 30 minutes before take-off, Joe.
I think it is going to be the same as today. Clear and sunny.
That one will bring you many hours of pleasure.
Hello sir, how can I help you?
Now, David, can I get you a drink? What will you have?
Certainly. This is an international company, and ther're good chances for you to work overseas.
Is that all doctor?
I like them very much. They are delicious.
OK. I'll take it. Will you gift-wrap this, please?
Experience is important, but don't you think capability is more valuable than that?
That's impossible. I remember the number clearly. Isn't this 763-4565?
Well, sir. We are asking all our guests to wear a jacket and a tie in our restaurant.
Not at all. You can ask the policeman over there.
Think, in some way it is an act of God, but in another way, it just is caused by us.
What race is he?
Oh, my niece will love her! How much for her?
I'll just try him again.
No, I haven't. This is my first time to watch it.
Sorry. I'm just that I think I blew the final and now my parents are going to get all bent out of shape. I like totally drew a blank on everything!
I'm sure of what I'm doing.
But there're no beds available now. Two patients will be discharged this afternoon, so you'll have to wait until then.
Yes.It ' s a bit tight.Have you got a bigger one?
Come on. What do you want to do? Washing clothes or cleaning the house?
I use it almost every day, but I usually only use it to check my email. I don ’ t often surf the net. You use the internet a lot, don ’ t you?
Why, that's very kind of you, Mrs. Johnson. I'm sure my wife will be glad to.
Good morning. My name is Mr. Brown. I ’ m from Australia. Here is my card.
Oh, yes. That's just the one I want. I will take it.
Eighteen.Some friends are having a birthday party for me tonight.Do you want to come?
Should I date Tom or should I date Harry?
What do you think our chance are in other events.
What do you need my ID for?
I may have done a lot, but none is to my satisfaction.
I think about ten minutes by bus.
How about Sunday then?
This is the world ’ s largest sports stadium. It’s a massive oval.
I went to a boxing match in the sports stadium.
I can begin to work right away because I am out of work now.
Why don't you make me some oatmeal and toast?
Ha-ha, sure not a problem! Here you are.Now off you go and away to bed. If you have any questions just give me a call! Feel better soon and take care.
I ’ m not sure. I ’ ll decide at the cheese counter, when I can see what they have. Have we got enough money?
It is our 10th wedding anniversary this June 20.
No, we met at university.
Yes. This is a duty-free shop.
Thank you, but I hate having to leave here and working abroad.
That's true. Some people pay too much attention to their mobile phones.
Hello, this is Peter Dixon from NEZ news radio. May I speak to Mr. Wilson please?
By all means.
Have you a bus tour? I have one day left so I think the best way is to take a bus tour.
Could you tell me more?
What kind of room would you like, sir? We have single rooms, double rooms, suites and deluxe suites in our hotel.
just go! it's Valentine's Day!
Well, if it isn't the teacher's pet!
Well, I really recommend Spain. You really should go. Anyway, it's been great to catch up, but I must be going, this is my floor. Speak again soon I hope.
Yes, I am, and I am so excited.
No way to know.
Yes, I think he ’ s the most relaxed person in management.
At first I didn't know anything about the machine. Now I know how to operate it. Besides, the work gives me a sense of fulfillment and achievement.
It's on telemarketing.
I hope he can come later.
Well, they sent me their prospectus, so I can start looking now. do you want to help me decide which classed to take?
All photography shops carry them.
We have a two-for-one special on large pizzas.Would you like a large pizza instead?
Bruh, that this book was on point.
Can I take the test again?
Well, maybe you broke it. But what I'm worried about is this cut.
I'll bet it's good exercise, too... a good way to keep fit.
You are right. Some ring tone is just terribly loud. You can hear it even in the next door. It is really a kind of distraction.
I know, but I want to make reservations this week.
Sure! What ' s playing?
To be honest, it was horrible! My manager is such a pain in the neck!
16 divided by 2. What's the answer?
Right here, how can i help you today, sir?
You bet. I wouldn ’ t miss it!
Most people think that wealth means success. But from my point of view, the problem should be viewed from two aspects. On the one hand, wealth is a very important thing to measure success. The ability to make money, to some extent, signifies your knowledge, your capability, the value of your labor, etc.. With the development of our economy and industry, more and more people are pursuing money these days. And in toda / s society, If you have money, you seem to have everything. But this is not the case. I think success, on the other hand, also means satisfaction from work. It also means that you can get respect from others.
Can I have the check please?
Yeah, this sucker is the fastest thing I've ever owned.
Well, I know some women who love golf and I know others who love contact sports.
It's different in my case. I work in the office, so only rarely do I get the chance to get any sun.
Why haven't you tried to come see me then?
Yes, I interned with an accounting firm during tax season.
Thank you. Oh, can I have another drink?
But two players of the team have been booked and one is out.
Hi, could we have two orange juice smoothies?
Have you been to Shanghai before?
If you can give us a more reduction, We'd be able to give you an order on the spot.
Good morning. Sales Division. Alex speaking.
Jingdezhen? Isn't it called ' the capital of porcelain '?
Say, what's you favorite sport?
Oh, really? Thanks a lot... well, I still have a lot to learn, I guess.
Excuse me, sir. Can I look at your ticket?
Yes. In fact, the recommendation is a way of indirect self-recommendation. The university and the business have a long-term relationship. If you are recommended by your university, you can be approved more easily.
The one in Florida is Disneyworld and the one in California is Disneyland, so you must have been to Disneyland.
I've asked my parents to live with us for a while, so they can look after her for me while I am at work or in the class.
Good evening. I've come to see Miss Morrison
Wow, Mom is more knowledgeable than Dad. I must learn from you.
Yes, the nearest one is at the third cross of this road.
She and Vic broke up and now she ’ s asked for a transfer.
Yes, I'd like to have a look at the 2 - piece suit.
Failure just isn't an option for her. I'm glad she's on our team.
I wish I could place a monthly order for a minimum of 50 cases, introducing your goods to my customers, but your price, $ 100 for a case, is too high in this highly competitive market.
OK, sir. I'll see what I can do.
That's enough for the kids. Get some drinks.
Yeah, I can really go for some Chinese food right now.
He dresses in plain clothes and drives an old car. Who would know he is the richest man in town?
I can ’ t believe this! Why are all these things happening to me! I can ’ t take it anymore! Let me out of the car!
How do you know so much about food and dieting?
Can you tell me what bus to catch from Altadena to downtown LA?
How about Milan?
I had a wonderful experience with the workshop.
There are people everywhere.What ' s that girl doing?
I ’ m so excited about Chinese New Year! When do I get to visit Grandma? Grandma makes the best dumplings in the world!
Laptops are more expensive, right?
Well, how can I put this? France is a terrible team.
Yes, that's right. We have just introduced the program, but it's very popular already.
Go make a sandwich.
Excuse me, waiter, would you please give us a menu?
If you sort out all of the paperwork today, you could have your loan by the end of the week.
When will we begin?
So we must seize this chance to go the beach.
Yes. He usually replies immediately.
I can so that.
Come to think of it, there is one rule in this house, Mary.
On second thought, I will have a cup.
Because men like to cheat.
Just head straight up the street about two blocks and then turn left.
I already have an account with you, so it should be pretty straight forward.
Thanks, but actually I was hoping I could ask you to write my biography.
Will there be any layovers?
What ’ s up? You look so blue.
I see. I'll try.
Do you have enough money in your checking account?
I'm sorry to hear that. May we meet the day after tomorrow?
I'm afraid I was too rude.
Great. Will that be cash or charge?
I am calling to inform you that we're happy to have you with us. Welcome aboard, I'm sure your friend would have given you a lot of information of our school and its motto, ways of teaching, etc.
yeah. And that ’ s so funny because most people prefer watching sex and violence to watching something more educational!
What shall I do today?
I don't think so. But it could've been.
This is already our best price.
I ’ m Smith, the manager of Human Resources Department. May I ask your name?
I ’ m glad you finally agree.
What is the problem?
I believe that this job would allow me to move up but might be a little boring for me.
Yes, but I don't know what soup you have.
Are you sure that you didn't make that purchase?
I'm sorry, but no. We used to have a trainer, but then he had an unfortunate accident.
How are you, Mr Wilson? I am Tina.
Well, I was wondering what the salaries are like? I mean... are they much lower than the corporate world?
Now we are prepared to settle the issue with you amicably.
Well, have a good day off from class.
What're you going to buy?
Yeah, but it isn't more expensive than international calls.
Yeah, most of the people are from my office.
That's great. I would love to. And when?
OK. We look forward to seeing you. Goodbye.
Very good. Do you have anything to declare?
I apologize for the inconvenience.
That sounds fantastic! But I am looking for something closer to the downtown, as I spend most of my time at the office.
We have just 10 days for the vacation.
You're right. I probably should just work on my paper. Thanks!
Do you really want to know?
I can ’ t find the book I want.
Actually Harvard was first named ' New College ', without a formal name.
That won't take long.
Ms. Wang, this is Mr. Cooper, president of Ivy Publishing.
It’s a good idea. But I am afraid It’s too cold. It is very windy on the lake.
Oh, well. It was fun to be the winner. But... it's too big. I must be an extra small in the States.
I hope to make 4,000 yuan a month for supporting my family.
Sure. At what time?
How long have you been here?
That is cheating and, if you get caught, you will be fined and disqualified from collecting unemployment.
Yes, how much is the teapot?
How much do you think it would cost?
Me, too. I think he ’ s really a shoulder to cry on.
I promise you'll have it tomorrow.
Your order is ready. It’s on the way to your room. We ’ re very sorry to have you waiting, Ma ’ am.
No problem. By the way, do you have any comment to make on our hotel?
When do you expect him back?
Ooh. Sorry, that ’ s not good for me. I am tied up all day Friday. We ’ ll have to do it next week. I am wide open then.
My room number is 1010 and the name is Ted Black.
I'm sorry to say I'm not familiar with processing management information, but I'm sure I could learn quite quickly. It can't be too difficult, and I've got a quick mind. I can handle any problem you give me.
The inspection certificate, which is based on a random selection of 20 % of the consignment as we've agreed on beforehand, is considered final and binding upon both parties. We do not accept any claims for compensation for loss incurred in transit, because you bought the goods F. O. B. Houston and on shipping quality, not on landed quality. Your claim, in our opinion, should be referred to the insurance company, as the mishap occurred after shipment.
No. I didn't even talk to her yet. But I think I'm in love.
Yes. This is Mrs.Davinson. I'd like to reserve a two-room suite for tonight.
Oh, this is just fine.
Last but not least, we have a wide variety of condiments that we can add to our perfect sandwich. We can be subtle and just add a touch of salt and pepper, or we can combine mustard sauce, mayonnaise, ketchup or even caviar to achieve a stronger flavor! It’s always a good idea to cut your sandwich in triangles or manageable pieces to avoid all your ingredients falling out and staining your shirt!
It's 89 yuan.
Yes. But there is no half fare for children. They must pay full fare.
A woman after my own heart...
Dan, don't worry. I will tell her everything as soon as she comes back.
Flight 36 to Washington.It ' ll be on the plane for you.
What if this small fever turns into a big fever?
Is there anything else I can do for you before your leave?
Well, in that case, this table is the only choice.
Would you like to come out with me tonight?
That will be a tough match, right?
I guess I'll wait a few more days. There maybe even bigger discount then.
You still have not given me those files I ’ Ve asked you for.
It can't be that bad.
At our club.
Can I ask for leave this afternoon?
You can apply for one right now, if you ’ d like.
Were you born in the U. S., Melissa?
Next Monday morning.
You know, I really must be going now or I'll be very late. Can you give me a call tomorrow an we'll decide?
What did your boss say to him?
We haven't had any problems so far. They offer a 24 - hour technical back-up service. We've called them in three times this month. They always arrive within a couple of hours.
Yeah, that's the one I've heard the special effects and the plot are outstanding.
Are you sure you weren't speeding?
Yes? How can I help you?
Honey, you can ask him to be quite. Otherwise you may punish him and tell him to stand out of the room, right?
Nothing but several personal effects.
Not yet, what's your opinion?
On the contrary, very exciting.
I want to try my hand at the stocks.
that ’ d be great, but could I have a cup of tea first?
I understand. Will the company provide training?
I want to have a suit made to measure.
It displays your slender figure, darling.
Of course. Otherwise I cannot go abroad.
What about the one on the Yellow River Road? It's a two-bedroom one, and renovated building with an eat-in kitchen.
Yeah, I want my own house very much, so I decide to buy one.
And good shot!
Yes, we do, there is a 90 percent for two.
Our maths teacher is rather humorous.
Yeah. Have you made any good resolutions for this new year?
I guess, here, give me 5,000 RIB worth. I might as well exchange a little extra. Who knows what the exchange rate will be tomorrow!
I've made arrangements with a friend to help me.
That's exactly how I feel now.
Yes. A lot of cash. Almost forty thousand pounds.
That's perfectly all right.
No, he has mended his way. After his father died, he set his hand to the job of putting his business affairs in order.
I can't believe it 。
Yeah, and I love your cooking.
Yes. Thank you very much. I am looking forward to hearing from you.
Yeah. She's a very responsible person.
Well, see you next monday.
Hey, that sounds great.
No, I really must go now.My family are expecting me home soon.
Well, when you tell him, be gentle. It's hard for kids to find out something like that.
Ok, but junk food has many disadvantages. As junk food contains high amount of oil and fat, you'll feel sleepy, but not be able to concentrate when you have a lot of it.
I ’ d prefer non-smoking roommates, but I guess I ’ ll have to take what I can get!
I might get one too, but in a different colour. I prefer light blue to while.
Whatever am i going to tell me parents.
Yes, Mr. Mason. I just checked with our office manager, Ms. Terry. She said Mr. Smith briefed her on your project. She is just finishing up a meeting now. She should be with you shortly. Would you like me to show you around while you are waiting?
Daddy, what's next? What else do we do now?
I am a painter.
Letter of credit at sight.
Yes, we do. That one comes in green blue and red.
Yes. Which one is the latest?
No... We shouldn't have any problem with that. I know we talked about a possibility for 90 days, but we won't be needing that after your discounted price.
Have you seen her?
Yes, but it's downtown. I would like to take look at this one.
It’s very nice meeting you, too.
No. The bookshelf is full of fashion books.
I'm not going to be late today.
Hi. I need a wake-up call tomorrow.
I understand. While it's always good to follow the local customs, I guess there are exceptions.
There are about 30 million people in my country. Most of them live in the north.
Do you have girlfriend?
Cow while Boots.
Are you serious? It is always crowded with many people.
It happened at my house.
Thank you very much. I have been wondering here for almost half an hour.
Hi, Sue. What's up?
Oh, I am sorry sir. I forgot to explain that to you. This one is an allowance slip. We made a mistake in your bill and overcharged you 120 dollars. So we had to write up an allowance slip and deduct 120 dollars from your bill.
My pleasure, I hope your visit to Beijing is very enjoyable!
I do like Thai food. Did you see much of Bangkok?
Very good. May I keep it? I need it to draw up a notice of the meeting and the agenda.
It went off 30 minutes ago.
Generally speaking, l am an open-minded person.
May I have your name?
Well, I suppose it could be the gas.
I don't know the words.
Thank you for a lovely day. I really enjoyed it.
All right. If you need any help, just let me know. My name is Greg.
What are we eating for lunch?
You're welcome. Please come again.
No problem.Call me when you get back.
Really? I ’ m very surprised. He doesn ’ t look like a guy who ’ d ever do that sort of thing, right?
Great, thanks a lot! I hope to hear from you! Good bye.
You put the coins into the slot, push it in, and it will turn on.
Going to look at houses during the week is best for me.
I'm interested in taking a tour to Sydney.
Are you aware of the reason why I pulled you over?
What about Mr.White?
Have you ever figured out your credit score?
Thanks, Mom. Thanks.
I'm not sure. But I'll get a table ready as fast as I can.
I am not sure. What's the rate today?
Henry, don ’ t get out of doing housework.
I like diet sprite. Does that have any caffeine in it?
PCC is an incredible school.
So, it's going to cost me then?
When I told David I was coming here to live, he give me your number, and suggest that I give your a ring. I was wondering if you could give me some advices.
Please fill out this deposit form, first.
Good afternoon, sales department.May I help you?
I ’ m so sorry.
Sure I can, my treat.
Thank you very much. Your food will be ready soon.
A lousy desk lamp. And you?
Did you think about talking to her again? Maybe she is waiting for your call.
Hi Steve, it's nice to meet you. I hear that you're looking for an apartment, and I just rented a two-bedroom downtown. I'm looking for a compatible roommate.
Did you hold a party or something else yesterday?
Well, why don't you go on the diet?
You'll find some of those here, too. But not if you don't shake it up! There's an African saying, “ If you can talk, you can sing! If you can walk, you can dance! ”
OK, and when shall I bring it here?
I hope to go there someday.
I would like to talk to you, if you have time.
I need to take the driver's course. How many hours do I need?
Oh, please sit down. What university did you graduate from?
That will probably cost you around twelve hundred dollars a month.
So what am I going to do?
Can You tell me how many you want to buy?
Wrap a few loops of the bandages around my upper arm, then twist.That will work as a tourniquet.After that, you can cut more of the bandages to cover the wound.
I honestly don't know.
Nothing else has happened to me, but I have seen quite a few fights on the streets after the bars close.
Yes, what is it, William?
I like rock a lot.
It's a fine day today, isn't it?
Do you travel a lot?
Good. Do you know anything about this company?
I need to withdraw some money.
What you're paying for, Ma'am, are the ingredients. It is a very high quality product.
Do you want anything else?
Yes, I think I speak English quite fluently. I've often explained historical places in Xi'an to foreign tourists in English. They say my English is quite good.
I am currently working in a foreign company as a salesman.
I know what you mean, I've thought about that myself.
if all goes well, we ’ ll open one up in Hong Kong in April and another one in Singapore in October.
Do you think discrimination against women in the work force is still prevalent even today?
Tom... you are her boss, you down. Of course, she's helpful to you.
I'm sure you will have fun no matter where you go.Remember to take your bag.
OK, OK. Enough already. We'd better hustle. The contest starts in five minutes.
Well, it has a cassette record... a cassette tape.
you're right. That might seem a bit rude. It's a good thing I've got you with me!
What did he do?
Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer and heart disease, you know. You really should quit.
Don't tell me you actually believe all that? Don't be so gullible, they are just urban legends. They are just stories people make up to scare you.
I see. Payment by LC is the safest method, but could you make an exception and accept DA or DP?
Excellent. Come in please. The washing machine is in the bathroom upstairs. It keeps breaking down.
What ’ s wrong? That was a great goal.
Don't worry. We'll make it back to the camp site before dark.
Tom, I won first prize in the poetry contest.
I lost all my lottery winnings playing the stock market.
What colour are you going to paint it?
I'm worried sick that she will leave me tomorrow.
What makes you say that?
Your project made much profit for the company. And the board of directors decided to give you a bonus.
You might send it as'Printed Matter '.
Yeah. I know.
Eighty-five? That's the best you can do? I'll come back later...
Jeez, seven children. That must have a lot of problems. We have four children in my family and my grandparents can never get our names right.
Not all the same nowadays I must say. Many families, especially those of newly married couples, choose to make an overseas trip to escape the routines. Rose and I had a tour to Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and Hong Kong last year. We stayed there for two weeks until the last day of the holiday.
The situation differs in person.
You can buy things at post office that were never sold there before. You can buy sweets and chocolates, newspapers, birthday and Christmas cards...
Well, I prefer to go on the train, but I suppose you want me to take the car.
That's about all.
Hello, Elitherbeth How are you?
Can you describe his appearance to me?
It's got to be almost a year now.
You know, maybe she's just a neat freak.
Good. The work includes keeping the files. Have you got any practical experience with that?
Hi, this is China Southern Airlines. Is that Miss. Ye?
Sorry, Dave, I didn't mean you. I am just not in the mood for this. I have work to do.
Sure. You can buy almost anything you can think of.
There must be a mistake. Those are fried oysters. Would you like to keep it or change?
I've heard that the company is very strict with its staff. Is that true?
Let ’ s see... ' Wanted, manager for up-and-coming firm. Must have good organizational skills. Experience a plus. Please contact Betty Sue. ' Oh, I don ’ t know...
Is this time one of them?
My mother is ill with cancer, and I think about her a lot.
Oh! Hey, look, that's the same shirt Britney wore in her concert.
I called in sick.
Excuse me. Who is the person responsible for handling complaints here? I would like to make a few complaints.
Yes, we have a hatch with a ladder.
Why not? It sounds great.
Excuse me. I bought this shirt yesterday, but I would like to refund it.
Oh, no! What should I do now?
Are you a full-time student or do you attend part-time in the evenings?
Can I try this one on?
come off it, It's not that serious. You should DIY ( do it yourself ) sometime.
sure, have a seat.
Would you like to have dinner with me?
Oh, that's right. And the general manager asked me to report the company's sales for last year at the meeting.
how's your new job going?
Pay attention to keeping eye contact as well.
Yes, there must be about a hundred. Do you have a favorite?
Are you really?
What's the problem? You don't look happy.
I can't sleep. I'm really not all that tired.
I don ’ t know anything about it. Soccer isn ’ t as popular in my country as it is here.
Good afternoon, how may I help you?
Of course you can.
do you miss your old co-workers?
I didn't know anyone did that any more. Ok, go on.
Who ’ s this? your girl-friend?
You owe me 19 dollars.
Is that really all that you eat?
Thank you for your praise.
Yes. I did.
How do you organize and plan for major projects?
I hear Jean married a business tycoon.
Good morning, sir. Is there anything I can do for you?
Would you mind telling me how old you are?
May be we could get some new furniture, better stuff.
I hope I can adapt to the new job as soon as possible.
Are you a goal-oriented person?
Me too. Seems like all I do is eat and sleep.
OK, I think I've got it.
Earning extra income on the Internet is easier than you might think. After I started selling traditional craft items on the Internet last year, I have really been able to make bank doing something I love.
They pay well enough.
Here you are. Thanks for your wonderful service.
Don't worry, you'll sleep well tonight.
Nothing. Just watching TV.
Well, I think this film is simply a fable, depicting man ’ s eternal greed for power, and in my opinion, It’s a very fine film. Even despite the accusations of plagiarism traditional folk tales from other countries.The musical score was amazing, the animation was very well done, and the story was simply enchanting.
They are above 90. I ’ m in the upper third of my class. I have worked hard at my major subject.
I'm about to explode! You ’ Ve made a mess of this matter.
I have learned English for 10 years, and I have passed College English test level 4 and 6.
Myrdal, purse don ’ t just disappear. Think carefully. When did you have it last?
Fine. We will handle domestic shipping, but what about customs? Will we have to pay tariff on our imports? I hope we don't run into any problems with the border control.
Should I come to the second floor or do you want to come to the first floor?
May I see your boarding pass?
Very well. I hope you'll enjoy your stay in China.
Who composed it for your?
I got a promotion at work earlier this week.
Everybody gets men ties for Christmas. It's too boring. Everybody buys either ties or sweaters. I want a more unique gift.
I am so bored all day.
Yes, but look at it this way, getting rid of the carts probably gives more work to local people, which is a good thing, right?
Yes, he has. He sold it last week.
Anything you say, honey.
Come on! We have been here for almost an hour! I thought you said you were only going to get a few things! How long does it take you to pick out a lipstick and some nail polish!
Are the snack foods in that area, too?
Good morning.My name's Pat Green.
You meant It’s an expression of their fantasies?
It doesn ’ t look much better inside this place.
You can super-size your meal for only 39 cents extra.
Let me handle it.
I started washing here about three years ago.
Hum, don ’ t say that. Maybe you can do something useful for me.
I can't think of anything. If I do think of something, I'll be sure to call again.
Take the lift over there and turn left. You won't miss it.
Doctor, my child is nine years old, and I recently found that he was constantly telling lies about how he is doing at school.
What? No kidding!
No, I don't think so.
Either in the overhead compartment or underneath the seat.
Well, I was discussing the contract with Bill and he said that they met the head of Lawsons last week.
Well, it depends how many pieces of luggages you have.
You were scared, too? I dared not tell you my feeling when I heard that. I almost got fainted.
When she first walked into the room to greet us, she didn't shake our hands or introduce herself at all. I thought that was a bit unprofessional.
I don't need to drink every weekend. I could be happy just staying home, you know.
Excuse me, Professor. I am going to miss next week's class.
Hey daddy! You look great today. I like your tie! By the way, I was wondering can I &
I'd like to order room service to room 927, please.
Our fruit is very fresh today. Do you want some?
It's $ 32.00.
Why? What do you mean by that?
Sure, I ’ ll catch the train. If I can ’ t catch the train, I ’ ll get a taxi.
Yeah. He ’ s been having an easy time since he was a boy, and now he doesn ’ t know how to face the music.
Of course. Here is our thickening mascara.We also have mascara designed to lengthen the eyelashes.
Do you like olives? Or would you prefer crisps?
I'll make sure he receives the message.
Room 1419. Here's my key.
I'll buy an electric map of the city.
It's London, 9981-6432.
Has your family lived here for long?
Good. I think I'll choose this single breasted one. When can I get it?
I Believe I will. Look for me near the lake.
But as a matter of fact, potatoes taste better.
Of course. The fitting room is right over there.
Of course. May I have your name, please?
Yes. If we get it, we'll really be set for success.
I main market reasearch, and you?
Yes. It is just round the corner. Oh, can you see the London Eye? Look straight and to your right.
No, you are wrong. Money can't buy happiness and health. I won't sacrifice my health in order to get money. In other words, I don't want to be a millionaire and I want to have more free time to enjoy life.
Yes, I was wondering if you had the time to show me around this exhibition?
Well, you might be the person we ’ Ve been looking for. Do you have any questions?
I want to work in the banking industry. I ’ Ve always been interesting in working for an international invest bank. I ’ d like to help people invest their money.
And what's your vision?
Autumn is also very nice In Washington.
no, what's it about?
thank you. Actually, I could not believe it at first. You know, there're so many outstanding people in our company. Many of them are qualified to fill that position.
Thank you, shall I open it now?
Is she really? I can ’ t believe it!
Hurry up, will you?
You must have seen some other kind of bird.
Well, I need to confirm the time of their classes.
I'll say. The regular eighteen is just about all I can handle myself.
To the restroom? I have no choice.
Speaking of seafood, my mouth is watering. Let's go to the seafood restaurant in our neighborhood.
I'd like the beef.
Don't be silly. Let's go Dutch.
I know. I could not believe it when I got hit by that storm. It was pouring with rain all afternoon.
That's why I applied for this job. Now I am studying Hotel English in my college, and I am quite familiar with the western courtesy and restaurant etiquette. I am sure my public relation skills will leave a strong impression on your customers.
Oh, I don't know.It depends.
Could I have a word with you?
If we built more roads, people would just fill them with cars again. I think we should discourage people from using their cars.
Oh, hey, no kidding! I haven't seen you since orientation three months ago! So how've you been? Settling into college life OK?
My cable has been out for the past week or so.
It's a lot better because it doesn't tie up your phone line.
Yes, it is. But we need to take out more water. So it then passes through a series of rollers, where more water is squeezed out. After that it goes through the dryers, which are at a very high temperature. The paper is then coated. And finally it's wound onto reels and cut down into smaller lengths.
Yes, I have. I had to get a project finished. It’s done now, so I can relax a little.
Yes, I saw that movie the first day it came out in theaters.
you are welcome.
Oh, it's a pity that you have to leave.
It's July 16,2009.
Mary, I have something to tell you.
that ’ s interesting. What does your grandfather think of your step-mother?
What should I do with the token?
On the floor.
I know that advertisers are experts at persuading people to spend their money, I think brilliant items are usually higher quality than ~ grounds.
If you happen to find one, please bargain with the owner for it. I'd like to have one. It's interesting to see the integration of the Han and Mongolian cultures on this small piece of metal.
That's great, congratulations!
I ’ m upset, too.
Oh, really? How does the book end?
I am going to see a movie with a friend of mine. What about you?
Good evening, madam. Did you ring for service? Who can I do for you?
I have to finish preparing a paper for my Western Civilization class.
Dad. You're so cute. What do I need to do to help get ready?
Go and get it repaired.
According to the newspaper, the town was razed by an earthquake and more than 10 thousand people died in the earthquake.
Mine isn't hard, but it's not interesting.
Oh, how high class! So you just wear it forever?
OK. But I'd like some cookies.
It is really gorgeous out today. I remembered the weatherman said it is supposed to rain.
Think nothing of it, Tony. I ’ m sure you ’ d do the same for me.
I have been looking at this online catalog for over an hour and I still haven ’ t finished getting all the kitchen appliances that we need!
It's a clear spirit we drink any time of the day. You will love it!
Oh, this is terrible, Yuri. Terrible! So we can't even assess the damages. How can we do business in this country? Either we're buried under mud, or we're in danger of getting kidnapped.No, I can't believe this mess!
No, I'm not clear.
Yes, a lot. Stuffs which are explosive, radioactive and poisonous are forbidden.
Gee. I must have left it in my hotel room.
Your hand is bleeding. What have you done to it?
Yes, will you keep our bags until 6 p. m.?
I am probably best at researching for marketing purposes.
With pleasure. What color do you like?
Is that your new bicycle?
Mark, this is Lucy.
What's up? You look low.
Welcome to Al ’ s Garage. What seems to be the problem?
If you're a registered guest, you have free access to our swim stations.
Hi, Bob, what time will you be home tonight?
I failed in my computer course once and I made up my mind to learn it well. Then I made painstaking preparation for 3 months and I finally got it.
You're just left school, haven't you, Emily?
You're not the only one with a lot to do. We are all in the same boat.
I need you to take a look at these samples. I think there are a few problems.
During the peak season, a single room goes for 50 dollars on a night. But we ’ Ve got a Single Super Saver Special going on right now – only $ 30 a night. And we ’ Ve also extended our checkout time 00 in
for example, in China, it's okay to talk while eating. However, you may regard it as rude.
So long as you learn from your mistakes.
I ’ Ve seen them before. They ’ re quite incredible. If you want to see historical figures in London, there ’ s one place you have to go.
I should like to look at some bracelets.
I ’ ll take it. I also need to improve the lighting in my living room. Do you have any suggestions?
Nancy, I made up my mind you were the only woman for me at the first sight.
that sounds like a nightmare!
It's really a surprise.
Have you tried The Peninsula Palace Beijing? My wedding reception was held there and they did an excellent job.
He came to work late every day that week. Then on Friday, he didn't show up at all.
I also hope your quality will meet our standard.
I also enjoyed it and was wondering if you would like to go for a hike in the mountains with me on Saturday.
It will be up shortly. Enjoy your food, sir.
What is it like?
What date, sir?
Yeah, I cherish it. Because I have been working like a dog for two months to buy it.
Well, I'll be back in a minute.
Yes. I've got to cancel my traveling plan.
Actually you can have a window seat if you don't mind a ten-minute wait.
I'd like to pay some money in using my card, please.
you are really happy and able to achieve high scores at school.
Do you like a job in a library, working with books?
Here you go, thanks for everything.
Yeah, It seems like we don't talk the same language as far as movies are concerned.
From mid-November, snow started to pile up in Ottawa.
I live in the Haitian District.
Where is my wallet? Someone has stolen my wallet!
What's the weather forecast for tomorrow?
A gas station. My car ran out of gas two blocks back.
How long will this flight last?
Yes. I want to go to Beijing Hotel.
The pleasure is mine. It’s nice talking with you. Good-bye, Mr. Owens.
Wow, it is like a maze, I think I might get lost soon.
Take some medicine and stay in bed for a day or two.
I can't think the same.
I can sign a contract up to a year. I don ’ t know where I ’ ll be after that.
Excuse me, sir, since my train leaves at 16:00. Have you a 3 - hour tour?
The maximum is $ 1000.
The air-conditioning is already off, madam.
I'm not sure. I don't know very much about the price of pearls.
Why? to welcome the new year of course.
that sounds really interesting. Can you speak Swahili?
Yes, but I've nearly fixed it. Just take it, will you?
That does sound a lot of fun.
Eleven o'clock on Friday morning. See you then.
If you get on before 4 p. m. or after 6 p. m., there is a saver return which is 9 pounds. An ordinary return is 16 pounds.
Do you two know each other?
I genuinely appreciate the meal.
Oh, it is my cell phone ringing. I set it in the vibration mode.
By the way, where are you going on New Year's Eve?
Did you buy the converter?
It's huge!
Yes, madam, can I help you?
Nine total. Seven children and my parents.
Brian, may I have a pleasure to have a dance with you?
I have much time. I suppose it can be done.
Though I like Chinese literature very much, I'm also interested in economics. It's a tough choice to make.
I'm sorry for that, I'm going to check with the chef right now. Miss, I just checked with the kitchen, and they said your order will be coming right up next. Oh, here comes.
Is there anything I can take that will help with the itching?
Potatoes, tomatoes and cucumber.
Oh, I am sorry to hear that. Is your father still working?
Let ’ s get both. We need some coffee too. Is that on your list?
This is the East Market to Central Park bus. Where do you want to go?
Let's go to watch an NBA game tonight, shall we?
So he takes attendance once in the morning and once in the afternoon.
Oh, Babe, I can ’ t wait to spend the rest of my life with you! I can ’ t wait for all the adventures we ’ re going to have, for all the fights and the laughter. I can ’ t wait to grow old and wrinkly with you.
Don't worry. I'll help you with it later.
Can I pay with traveler's check?
I think I'm going to go to the market today.
Tell me the problem.
I see. Where do I have to change then?
No, Mom. I'm really sick.
If he doesn't change his attitude toward work, I don't think a new job can make any difference.
Yes, all right. So why? Go on then. Say it. Oh, really, Mark. I promise I'm not going to be angry. Now why were you late?
Now let's board the boat and have a ride on the lake.
oh, he really should.
Sorry, but I've gotta run. Enjoy your food, and ring the service button if you need anything else!
Where exactly are you coming from?
It's on the fourth floor.
I recommend our New English Pizza.
I'll give it back to you in a couple of days.
I am afraid that is not acceptable. Your contract says that you will deliver a product with a reject rate of less than six percent.
That's great! Thanks for your support. If any, please remember to call us. I am afraid I have to say goodbye now! Bye, Mr. James!
Well, we should be in accordance with national conditions and adjust the product.
He did. It was one of the best ones available. But that didn't stop them from disabling 11 it. And on a crowded street too.
Is it broken?
Thank you for calling. I really appreciate your kindness. But right now, I ’ m very busy preparing for an interview of another company. I don ’ t think I am available for this opportunity.
That's great.
Of course! Let ’ s have a look. Great! In my frame of mind, I ’ d like to but one today.
A Twin, please.
How long do you intend to stay?
I am sorry, you have the wrong number.
Just a few minutes, ma'am.
What's going on with you?
Annie, do you like shopping online?
What would you like for dessert?
I'm sure you didn't.
That's great, exactly what I need to know. Thanks.
What ’ s your name, please?
We spend a lot of money to make sure that our quality is much better. We don ’ t sacrifice quality for quick profits.
That one, the one that says Mail.
It's not far away from home, It's - let me see – about 20 minutes'walk, Can you walk here?
You are suspected of hiding illegal drugs, so we are taking you into custody. We ’ Ve found some heroin in your house. You have the following rights while you are being interviewed. You have the right to remain silent. You don't have to make any statement against your will. You have the right to defense counsel. You have the right to request an investigation of evidence favorable to your case. Do you understand your rights?
If that's the case. there's not much point in further discussion. We might as well call the whole deal off.
No, there ’ s a police car behind us. He ’ ll stop.
Relly? That's amazing.
We will transact this for you as soon as we can after the materials you have given me have been checked and verified.
That's quite a compliment coming from you.
I think that we should dress neatly and appropriately.
I have many hobbies. I like most all kind of sports, and I also like to listen to classic musics.
Here you are.It ' s 90 yuan, miss.
Hey, let me get it for you. It's your birthday present.
Of course there is. The top-level coaches there are from the State Sports General Administration.
It sounds interesting.
It’s L-e-e.
I want to see some of the famous places like Eiffel Tower, the Seine River...
Oh, and there's one more thing you have to do every hour on the hour, sweets.
No, they made him vicepresident in charge of sells.
Tell you what, I ’ ll be calling Jim late this week anyway, so I ’ ll mention it to him then.
The price can be talked over. How about coming around and taking a look at it first?
It's in that pan there. Your boy Dean broke the silex yesterday, so I have to boil it in the pan.
Yes, may I ask something about the salary and benefits in your company?
Can you tell me what it's about? I can make a note of it, so Mr. Nelson is aware and prepared when he returns your call.
My computer won't turn on.
You must weigh that as well.
I think the course at Leeds University is interesting, but I think the one at Manchester University would be more practical.
Have a nice weekend!
Really? I am glad to meet you.
I'm afraid not, unless you want a night flight.
You know who will be responsible for feeding and cleaning and all of that stuff?
I have a housing contract with the university. I'll be in a dorm room on campus.
Paul, you were also a parent of young kids before. So, can you tell me what you did when your kids didn ’ t behave very well?
Hey! I didn't know that! When did you become a vegetarian?
yes, that was the first thing we did. We went all the way to the top. There were visitors from all over the world taking photos there.
Is he really?
Sure. It's very close actually.You go straight down this road. Then you turn left, at the next junction.
He's going too slow.
This will fix all of that for you. If you use our online payment service, the money will come straight out of your account and go directly into the seller's account, in a secure way.
Of course! Are you?
I thought you'd never ask. The lawn needs to be mowed and the garage deserves to be cleaned.
Yes. He ’ s already got the passport and visa.
Nah, I just check my weight, I'm getting fatter.
What happens if I don ’ t meet that requirement?
I have to say your education and experience are very outstanding, but it seems that you are not good at working in a team which we attach great importance to.
Could we order later? We have five persons altogether and 2 of us are still on the way.
Mike, I'm afraid I can't come back home for dinner tonight.
You're probably right. Oh, what the heck! I'll take it all... in maroon, like you said.
Ur, it stinks!
I'll take one right now for seven dollars.
Really? I have a weakness for coffee.
So do I. You are a beautiful flower in my mind.
He was actually quite handsome. What a shame.
Great. Welcome to our company.
OK, then. The man was old and he was visiting his wife's grave, with a rose in his hand. When he got there, he saw someone already put a rose on her grave.
Unbelievable! I remember her husband is her former classmate. They fell in love with each other in college.
Oh, my dear lady, take it easy. You should forgive a green hand like him.
You mean a murder cycle? Did you know more cyclists die in accidents than motorists?
I can tell you at a glance that your prices are much too high.
That's a good reason to like something.
Look, all you do is press that button and It’s ready to use.
What degree will you receive?
Who do you think it is?
Yes. There is something wrong with my watch. It stopped several hours ago.
It was nice to see you, too.And please give my regards to Mrs.Robbins.
Have a nice holiday!
Well, I work very long hours, ten hours a day is quite normal. And if something important comes up, I ’ m often in the office until 8 or 9 in the evening.
Can you name a few examples?
We need a detention warrant.
Great. Thanks for your help.
Is this the right subway to the Wall Street?
Let me see. We should go to buy some fruit first.
First, you have had an impressive growth record, ever since the company had been founded for half a century. Second, I can improve myself by working here.
Oh, I seem to lose something every time I travel.
I get it. You want to find a guide, don ’ t you?
Your PC is so amazing. Are you doing trade on internet?
Ok, thank you.
Sorry to keep you waiting, Miss. I'll have a dresser Mr.Li is just finish with a client in a moment or two. Would you have a shampoo first? I'll get it on for you.
It maybe worse than it seems.
Good afternoon, could you connect this call with Mr Brown, please
I'd like to go around the city, if you don't mind.
Wait a minute. I didn't catch you there. Could you repeat that?
That's a very nice pair of glasses.
Please find out the reason as soon as possible. We are in bad need of it.
But you should at least consider your son's future.
Are you sure this is the right restaurant?
For wood or for metal?
That will be no problem. We never use any kind of inferior packaging. Your goods will be safe.
Has the game started yet?
Those small countries are microscopic compared to Russia. European countries are relatively small. France looks quite big in Europe, but compared to many countries in other continents, It’s not very large at all.
You missed a really good game.
My dad was, but not my mom.
Yes, I like the fish cooked in sweet and sour sauce best. Try some beef, please.
I'm from England.
Bye-bye. Visit us again soon!
Good morning. SRC international. How may I help you?
It seems that it's all about me. Then what do you do?
Yes, you have 2 weeks paid vacation a year, and you get it additional week after 4 years, and then again, after 9 years if you decide to stay that long, we promote from within based on performance, so there is an excellent chance that you could become a sales manager or even a region manager.
Yes, I know. I have a disability.My hip was broken last year. And I can't walk well.
I just insert my debit card into the machine.
I'm just shopping.
I am leaving from work, so maybe I could just meet you at the first house that we will look at.
No trouble at all.
But many rich guys don ’ t think they are truly happy. There is always some empty feeling deep inside them.
He followed me all the way home!
Sure, just ask. What can I do for you?
"I agree. They're very lovely, especially "" Huan Huan ""."
As a teacher, I don ’ t know how to help him.
Well, no. But I took related courses. I can gain experience quickly. I ’ m sure I can do the job well.
Yes, he is. He ’ s climbing the tree.
If I catch up on my rent, can I stay?
I ’ m afraid I have some business to attend to.
Have you visited our souvenir shop, sir? It's loaded with all kinds of items.
Boy, it looks like everyone in your family is here, from young to old.
Hello, this is Dunlin. May I speak to Mrs Smith?
I really want to obtain a permanent job. I won't leave as long as I have opportunity to apply my knowledge and get on well with my superiors and colleagues.
Yes. And I've brought some documents along with me, too. Do you need to see my passport?
How do you like it here compared to PCC?
How have you been doing lately?
You're too strict with yourself.
Is it made of pure gold?
My brother gave me a baby cat yesterday. I can keep it as my pet.
Can you get me a taxi?
Sure. Have you got anywhere in mind?
Yes.When is the next train to New York City?
Walking isn't a problem for me.
We have a position where that could work out well.
great. I ’ m looking forward to it.
It’s so wet and dark, I ’ m just fed up.
Not bad. Have you heard Wendy divorced her husband?
OK, no problem. Have you found the blank ones?
Anytime you have a question, please feel free to ask.
But for me, the training is waste of my precious time.
And she did her best to pull out the thorn in her flesh and the boy lost whatever made him happy.
I'm going to Ireland this summer.
We're identical. I mean, we look exactly the same, but we complete opposites when it comes to everything else!
That would be great! You are really a good employee.
Is the car owner a lady with deafening voice?
What are you talking about? My alarm hasn ’ t even gone off yet.
What's the name of the singer who sings this song?
Could you please transfer that money to my remaining account?
then we turn south and come back to the car park along this path.
How about Monday morning at 9 a. m.?
That sounds good. Which one do you recommend?
Yes, sometimes giving up a little to move forward is the best choice.
Espresso is made with a machine that forces steam and boiling water through finely ground coffee. It's strong.
Well, maybe not a Michael Zhang, but better than the average. Person would you like to play again Wednesday?
That is fine.
I'd like the first-class cabin for two. What's the fare?
I'm so glad you like it.
I am brushing my teeth.
Why don't we get ourselves a new car? The old one's falling apart.
Still, there are some rules to follow.
I want it registered. How much is it then?
OK. Here goes.
I'm sure you have great connections.
can I see your passport, please?
OK. Great idea!
Hello, Friendship Restaurant. May I help you?
Well, when it's nicer outside, you can start biking to work. That will give you just as much freedom as your car usually provides.
I'm not quite sure. What do you have?
Thank you. I am very excited.
They said that they did. I've been so busy...
That won't do. You see, our profit margin is very narrow. It simply can't stand such a big cut.
Definitely. But I think it is too fierce.
I ’ d like to try the salty ones. Where does that strange smell come from?
Sorry, right now we can only have you a room without shower.
It is especially important for the graduates who step into the job market for the first time.
You and everyone else. It looks more like a camp-ground than a library.
Hello. Is there anything I can do for you?
What is the cost of the tour?
I certainly did. Do you want to come in and give me some feedback about your weekend?
Well, I don't think it's the best style for me.
Thanks! Now I don ’ t need to come back to the shop a second time.
Instead of walking, you can take this shuttle to get you there faster.
I learned to drive and I got a driving license.
I see. Do you have anything to declare?
Then what is the problem, sir?
Good. I ' ll take a dozen of them then.
Sure. That would be great. Good luck.
Which do you prefer?
welcome back! How was your vacation?
The National Day is coming. What are you going to do during the holiday?
Could I speak to you for a minute?
Does the charge include everything?
I envy you, Mr Meng! What can I do for you today?
I ’ m moving out.
No problem. I'll talk to you later.
Old Dyson looks as if he maybe kick the bucket any day.
I see. I'll follow your instructions.
Would you like us to deliver the mattress for you, sir?
Unexpectedly, a girl threw a bucket of water on me.
I went to the beach with my friends and had a barbecue there.
The steel sheets and bars come in, as you see, in different sizes and are unloaded onto the delivery bay here. We buy them in from a steel works in Wales. This is the new conveyor belt we installed last year. We doubled our output in this department as a result.
To be fair, though, both the costumes and scenery are marvelous.
That sounds good. Do I need to bring anything?
Doesn't everyone? Which games are those?
That would be lovely. But now let's go and get a drink.
The weather forecasters are not good at predicting the weather would be like. Our weather is so changeable.
I want to sign up for some funds units. How do I go about it?
And we can take out a loan to pay the rest.
What does that have to do with those men shooting at us? Most importantly, why did you lie to me!
You'd better wait. The gums are swollen. Take the medicine I prescribe and come back in three days.
I ’ m sure I can get it from another library.
Like me? But you see I am so successful now. And if he is really like me, he will be more successful than me in the future.
my name is Jenkins. My phone number is 7539738 2. that ’ s confirmed then. 7:30 on Friday.
Yes. I was a member of the basketball Society. I like playing basketball.
The Chinatown in Vancouver is the second largest Chinatown in the North America.
That the workshop was lowkey awesome.
Sorry, this biography is over the deadline. You should pay extra for it.
Yes, we have both the paperback and hardcover. which would you want to buy?
Mail room. Karen speaking.
You don't think you could be wrong?
Whatever. Just make sure you go vote.
I want to. I heard it's going to be really fun.
Yes, it has a built-in modem. You just plug a phone line into the back of the computer.
Yes. But this one is full, you have to wait for the next one.
If you give me cash, do you care if I don't fix the car?
Hello. I'm having a problem with my air conditioner.
It’s a skill. What can I say? I don ’ t know why, I just have a long routine.
The good thing is you don't need to go to school.
It’s me, mum, I am sorry.
Yeah, that is what the holiday is for, isn't it?
Wow, Arthur! You ’ re as blind as a bat!
Oh. I had hoped she would have called me back yesterday.
I know.Do you have some change I can borrow?
"and you can still go "" window shopping "" just like in a real shopping mall."
All right, I will start working now.
Excuse me, I'm looking for a good novel. Can you recommend anything?
Now we get along very well. It makes me feel that I'm someone special.
Hi, I'd like to order some flowers.
You've got be joking.
Not as much as last time, actually. What's the name of the American actor who was in the supporting role?
C'mon. Just don't move.
He would get very angry if anyone criticized him.
Yes. Shall we buy some saucers? It will be used during our picnic.
What bills are included in the rent?
What's so special about this song?
I really do not have time to deal with some lovesick computer geek.
Likewise. See you later.
You will get a fine.
That sounds really good to me right now.
You might even dream about dinner.
How come so cheap?
Yes, this is the best we can do.
You're so industrious.
This isn't fair.
A nice name, isn't it?
You too. I hope to see you soon. Goodbye.
Great! Let ’ s do it!
Hey, Frank, there is that Janet chick.
Hello. May I speak to Brian, please?
But there are a lot of Kts in this town. There's one just two blocks from here.
I bet nobody will care about it.
Of course, if we are happy with the service after the initial period we will recommend all employees either transfer their accounts to this bank, or open new accounts with you.
No, quite the contrary.
Your daughter looks like her mother.
Not yet. But I wonder if I can get my parents ’ consent.
You bought a compact car?
I'm usually drinking all night long. At least 10 drinks.
I'm not in the mood.
Let's hope it clears up.
Good question. I have to think about it.
Do you have any other plans this weekend?
A basket of lilies.
Excuse me.When ' s the next bus?
I need a taxi to the airport.
Do you have much time watching TV?
Yes. I'd like to travel to London. So I want you to make a reservation for me on May 1st.
No, I am a teacher. I teach art.
You want to be a politician? Yuck.
I always have meals outside, because I ’ m not good at cooking.
Can we have 7 - day holiday on National Day?
For a week or so. Do you give discount for a week or more?
No, thanks. You ’ Ve done a lot for me already. Thank you for everything.
It's absolutely true in the United States that losses from pilferage have been limited to high valued goods. We must study more about packing.
I've tried, but it didn't work.
Thanks a lot for your help.
Well spotted! I actually had it cleaned twice, because it was so dirty. The rug is new. You remember my trip to china? Well, I bought is there.
I would like to go to Europe for a visit? Can you recommend me an interesting city?
Yeah, he has no children, so he sometimes feel s very lonely. I often go to his house to play and talk with him. That makes him feel very happy.
Yes, sometimes it happens, Ma'am. That's why it is always good to carry your confirmation number. I'm sorry about the inconvenience.
Yes. I'd like this shirt to be dry-cleaned.
Last week, madam? I really can't remember which ones you mean. What were they like?
Absolutely. Believe it or not, I found my cat by a garbage can around my neighborhood two years ago.
Well. I ’ ll see, sometimes the store don't have some one of new kinds of cereal.
Shall I come to your office this afternoon?
Will the numbers mean anything to me?
I ’ d like to know why you ’ re always taking credit for work we ’ Ve done together like that line in the new Ice Cream ad?
It costs only 19 dollars a year for a card.
I ’ m afraid not. Don ’ t you see I ’ m looking up a word in the dictionary?
So, what damage does ozone do to the environment?
I'm working on my resume.
Elvin, please. Can I count on you to keep your cool for a week, or not?
I have been working really hard, and sleep has not been a priority.
What's your price?
Ok.But is there anything wrong?
Really? What kind of problems?
They're also known as bell-bottoms. They are a type of trousers.
I will, but let's go to the disco after dinner.
Hi, Ruth. Hop in.
I just heard that you won the long-distance race. Congratulations on your victory.
Well, the first settlers of Massachusetts arrived there because of religious persecution from England and King James. Once in the New World, they befriended an native named Squanto, who taught them how to harvest food from the area such as corn.
Well, I don't think I want it.
Here you are, seat 12c. Please go to gate 23 after passing through the security checkpoint.
Today is your birthday. First of all, happy birthday to you!
But how guilty to waste food!
Oh, no, you can't be serious. I never expect anything like this would happened. What are we going to do?
No, I'm not.
you look better today. How did your test go?
I am on my way out to a New Year ’ s banquet. How do I look? Is my make-up OK?
Ok, would you like some soup as well?
Yes. Let's first define the inspection right.
You can do some jogging. It's easy and it doesn't take much time.
Yes, but I don ’ t think it was enough. He looked disappointed. I gave him three dollars.
That ’ s correct.
Rubin! Karen and Mike have spoken about you so often that I feel like I've met you before.
I bet she will hang around with her mates after school.
I know that they are auspicious fish. It's quite popular nowadays.
shouldn't we finish writing this letter first?
Does that include the insurance?
Maybe a fruit salad and a few different hot sandwiches at least.
Yes. Commission will be given on the basis of your sales revenue. And the percentage will be 2 % of your total revenue.
Brian! How have you been?
I understand, but all I want is five more minutes of sleep.
I ’ m not sure.
Oh, lilies of the valley. No, I am sorry. We are all out of them right now.
What ’ s wrong with that? Cigarette is the thing I go crazy for.
If my hard drive crashes, I'll just call you.
I see. But I'm busy now. How about tomorrow?
Open the door. It's me. I can't find the key.
But number 13 buses leave from the centre of town. You'll have to walk two miles to catch one.
My dog has spots. He is very strong.
ok. I ’ ll put the plates and cutlery away as I dry them. Where is the tea towel? Oh, here it is.
What's your favorite TV Program?
I'm sorry sir, this flight has been cancelled due to some mechanical problems.
most of the things were household appliance. You know, everything from an iron through a vacuum cleaner to a cooker. I think It’s an excellent way for everyone who knows the couple to help
It's our anniversary today. I am looking for the same flowers as the ones in her wedding bouquet.
Then will you put all the towels under the bathroom door.
That was a great party. Thanks for staying behind to help me clear up.
8826789 4, extension to 208
Well, we are so tired today. Can you tell me which bus I should take?
Hmm, you're right.
I think so. The bakery invited a famous baker from the USA. He is good at making cookies.
What do you do for a living?
You didn't make this purchase?
Yeah, I guess you're right. It's easy to get bogged down in the day to day, and forget to change things up once in a while. Let's break out and do something completely different tonight.
Don't be angry, you lose money just to avoid misfortune.
That's good. When can I go to see the house?
Well, my dear. I didn't believe either.But got it straight form the horse's mouth.Davi called me this morning.
Wow. We don't get to see this in the city!
Annie, you also know the ' new age people '. I think these people must have undergone much sufferings of flesh in order to ride skillfully.
That is ok, then? Starts on the cheek? pretty soon you french kiss in the back on his car.
I wonder if you can help me.
Yeah.There ' s an express that leaves in twenty minutes.
Mr. Lee in Room 1234.
Next Monday is my birthday, and I would like you to attend my party.
Is it really that simple? It doesn't seem very efficient to run things that way...
Did you move into your new apartment?
The Internet has a list of Employment Development Offices listed online.
I know they aren't good for me, but they are cheap, convenient, and fairly tasty.
I think you are an excellent person. Honestly speaking, you are very suitable for this job
Yes, whenever I think about China, I'd see the Tian'an Men Square. China is a very beautiful country. And I've seen many landmarks in China but I like the Great Wall most.
Have you found a particular item from the card catalogue?
That is excellent, your investment proposal is a wise decision. May I have some idea of your suggestion?
All right, sir. You would receive dinner in about 15 minutes.
Well, I ’ d like to talk about my new contract with you, if that ’ s all right.
This one ’ s a little too expensive for me. I ’ d prefer something cheaper for now.When I ’ Ve learned to play, I might get a better one.
You sit in there, listen to the morning announcement with other kids, and then you go to your classes.
There are various magazines in the rack.
I know what you mean, it leaves a lot to be desired.
You did a horrible job on my hair.
The point is that she has been persuading me to lose weight too.
It looks to be a nice day today.
Is the furniture at IKEA cheap?
All of your friends, what are you planning to do?
Yes, he used to be. But now he ’ s drifting off track.
That's so sweet. What was the occasion?
It's time I left.
Certainly, I can can help you with that. What type of account would you like to open? A chequing or a savings account?
Have you been feeling OK lately?
Right here. And write your address. You'll get the card in the mail within a week.
No, I'm a tourist. This place is amazing! It's much bigger than I imagined, and much more exciting! There's so much to see here.
I have to exchange some money.
That sounds great. Where are you going?
Great. At first, you can put the chairs back.
Yes, that's true.
Yes, that's for the units.Installation would probably be another 700 to 1000 dollars.But it depends on the time spent, of course.
I'm still sleepy.
It will be Sunday so I expected everything will be closed.
I will, thanks for your concern.
All right. Do you know if the test covers the whole book?
no problem. Bob.
Yeah, just return to nature and feel the thrills of its beauty.
Sure, just send me through internal mail.
First we will take some x-rays and see what we ’ re dealing with. I also noticed a small cavity up front here, so you are going to need a filling.
Can you tell me about your responsibilities at your last job?
that would be great. thanks.
I am going to the railway station.
Of course. I made the apple pie this morning, so It’s lovely and fresh.
Give it a couple days, and it should be back on.
I think you are a quick learner.
What kind of software can you use?
Oh, dear. My weight has gone up again.
Thank you, sir. Now, do you have a credit card, sir?
I'm not really sure. I don't like romance novels, but any other genre is okay, as long as the book's good.
I worked in a foreign representative office for one year. However, I leave there two years ago because the work they gave me was rather dull. I found another job that was more interesting.
Perhaps that had something to do with it.
Geez! What ’ s the rush?
Make sure you vacuum and dust your room.
Yeah I know what you mean. That's why this year I am keeping things more simple. Maybe like getting together with friends I haven't seen in a long time, or doing some volunteering work.
We ate everything from dinner.
Good morning, doctor. I feel terrible. I ’ Ve god a cold and I have a rash here on my neck. I ’ m not sleeping well either. What do you think the problem could be?
don ’ t worry. Sometimes people will give you a discount if you promise to do the clearing or take care of the children.
Well, I really like being with her.
Cool! Can I come?
You are so lucky.
Thank you, doctor.
No, I'm sorry I don't. I never read the papers till I get home.
I met Mark yesterday. He looked blue.
May I have your name please?
Of course. If you could sign your name on the bottom line here, and write your address here. And please sign and date the back of every cheque and of course I'll need to see your passport.
I'm looking for it, but you see, the market is hard up for jobs, too.
We're supposed to check in at the air-china ’ s counter. Thirty minutes before take off, Joe.
Well, how about 4th?
I want it short.
Well, obviously, what you ’ re doing is not good enough!
You just missed one.
Yes, I'll be glad to.
Yes, but It’s not free, you have to pay.
Did you need something?
I got it. I think it's worth trying.
Mmmm... This apartment seems a little expensive. Do you have any cheap studios?
All right, and what about the older gentle?
Well, it is getting pretty late. I think we should go home.
Ten days? Would you please repeat it again?
Well, if it is elevated, you might have an infection.
That's easy. It was invented by Edison.
Please wait a moment.
It all started the day before yesterday.
Oh. Graham. I love you so much and I really believe in our love.
Right. Do you have the code for that one?
When did you find out?
some people have satellite and cable tv in my country, but people don ’ t seem to keen to pay for their tv programmes. Besides, the terrestrial channels offer a good range of programmes.
What's it look like, lady? This is the ticket line I'm standing in, isn't it?
oh, you have too wild of an imagination.
How many invitations has she given out?
What makes you angry?
At the beginning, it does not matter, but once someone gets one ball in, it is set.
No, no problem. I have my car in the parking ramp around the corner.
What is your return policy just in case he doesn't like them?
How do you celebrate it?
Unfortunately, it doesn't. However we can give you a 10 % discount on the frame. We also offer a very good financing plan. There is no payment no interest until next June.
Don ’ t you think It’s a bit cold for that?
Duh... That's the point. The people in the ads are wearing what's in. Plus, there are articles on new trends...
Can I see your ticket please?
I would like to have my clothes washed. What's the rate?
Really? You must be...
Why doesn't he ask her?
You don ’ t have to explain. Suit yourself.
And hundreds of booths-all filled with different kinds of stuff.
I ’ m making a shopping-list, Tom.
Yes, my customers have started to complain too!
That's no problem. Just dial 9 to get an outside line, and then dial the number as usual.
well, talk to him about it next time you see him. He probably feels as bad about it as you do. Close friends sometimes have disagreements. It’s nothing unusual. Neither of you said anything r
Let's shake on it.
good. I have to go right now. I really hope this meeting doesn ’ t last too long.
What type of diet were you on?
Yes, I am, rather. But I'll be all right by tomorrow and ready for business.
Be a little more open-minded, Stu! Don't believe everything you read in your history books!
I've always admired the conference.
I do agree with you.
Look at the girls in the street. They all have a bunch of flowers.Is it Valentine's Day?
You need to fill out an Application Form.
Jack, I think it's best that I actively ask for the results of interview.
We allow several weeks release time each year for our employees to attend job-related seminars and conferences.
Thanks. You'd be OK on your own. There are loads of fashion victims out there, and you are not one of them. Have you tried it on yet?
How long will you study there.
Not yet. Can you give me some suggestions?
No problem. Wait for a moment.
Mom, did you feel the earthquake this afternoon?
Don't move from time to time. It is very impolite and will make you nervous.
Hi there. I'd like to draw some cash from my Fund Account at the Securities Company. Could I check my balance before I withdraw anything?
Why is it necessary?
Did you notice that stop sign you ran through?
I know, but I think they may add something valuable to the discussion.
Don't be silly. It's no trouble at all.
Yes, people just seem to drift apart.
It says here that most of the people are han Chinese, but there are 55 minorities that make up almost 10 % of the population.
OK, I will fetch the remote control.
Oh yeah! Almost forgot! I need to take fundamental linguistics, consumer psychology and neuroanatomy.
Ok, George. Bye!
Oh, It’s the latest novel by ray blue. It’s a sic-fi thriller.
That's too bad. I wish your mother can recover soon.
I ’ d like to order number 17, no. 23 and no. 24.
4 % is too low, I think. You see, we have a lot of work to do in sales promotion, such as advertising on radio or TV, printing booklets, leaflets, catalogues and so on. It all costs money, 4 % is not enough.
It could be pretty tough studying abroad. Being so far away from home...
Ms. Montgomery? Do you have a moment?
I like winter too, but sometimes it gets too cold.
Did it take you a long time to quit smoking?
Yes. I'd like to check in, please.
Stop talking like my mother. That's what she keeps saying.
My wallet and cell phone.
it was written by Howard sounds.
Yes, it was just when I was walking in the park. I saw some children with a newspaper.
are you planning on studying abroad?
I'd like to reserve a table for three this evening.
What happened, John?
B, talking about salary is not smart. You are a new manager and you'd better learn more professional skills.
Mr. Richard, this is Henry. I was interviewed by you last Tuesday.
8 pm, that's fine with me.
Oh, dear. When do you think they will arrive?
OK, it's no anything. Do what you should do.
How many orders do we still need to pack, Gale? We've been packing all day.
Yes. But what are you worried about?
Really? That's good. Is there any supermarket in our neighborhood?
I think it's time we started driving.
Yes, I have received an Engineer's Qualification Certificate and a driver's license.
I don't. I like the work.
Well, here is one made of duralumin. That's cheap and durable. Over there we've also got some made of stainless steel, and those over there are enamel ones.
That scientists was lowkey awesome.
They do, but it doesn't help too much. Having seven children means that the money situation in my home is always pretty tight.
Everybody would like to have Jim on their team. Because he is funny and helpful and he can contribute a lot to the team he belongs to.
I know. I really want to go to the beach.
Really? Congratulations! That's really something beyond my imagination. How did you make it? Did you keep on a diet?
She looked sweeter than her pictures.
What kind of magazines would you like, fashion or sports?
Do you know what your credit score is?
The officer wouldn't lie about that.
That ’ s it. I live there, too. I live on the sixth floor.
I have nothing but faith in Obama.
Demographics say an average age of 28.7, educational background of university or post-grad, annual household income of 40-50 K a year.
Thank you. Can I meet my colleagues?
Is there any way we can speed it up?
Whatever things get tough, he gives in.
You ’ re lucky.
Is there a car park near the supermarket?
It's a good diet and a regular exercise.
"Does that include some kind of "" Love, Amy Card ""? "
I feel terrible now.
And can you tell me what meetings I have this week?
They don ’ t pay a lot, do they?
1,000 RIB, it should all be there.
I register this Friday.
Single or double?
I don't find a Carol in the computer for today. I have a Carol Larson here. But that reservation is for next Monday.
My car broke down.
Well, I never drink alcohol, coffee or tea. They are very bad for you.
Don't worry. I'll drive you back.
But how? So you knew all along I was with WebTracker? How did you know?
It's the most fun I've had in years.
What ’ s special about a thai massage?
So, are you going to go to class tonight?
Thank you for the suggestion.
They always push the time. How many of them are over fifty?
Like what? I assume that there's no privacy.
I think that will over-process your hair, you should wait at least two weeks.
You have been so busy these months. What are you up to?
Let me see. 100 dollars.
OK, OK, I ’ ll go.
Don't worry, I will come to pick you up at about six thirty.
Arm... just the usual, Current Deposit please.
Let me think about it. What should I do? I think I will not give up.
But you're actually having the same reaction as our tree-dwelling ancestors! It's called the flight or fight response. Each time you feel like something's threatening you, your body decides whether to run away or fight... it causes all sorts of chemical reactions in the body.
I'm calling to let you know that the funds for NX567822100007 have arrived.
Here you are. That's eight fifty.
When can we expect you for dinner? Can you come tonight?
What's your meaning?
At present, both are OK for me.What do you need most, then?
Bus No. 12.
Hey Mel! Are you up for some tennis today?
Yes. I don't want to be stuck in a rut. I want to move on.
Do you want to go catch a movie tonight?
Why do you want to resign?
I am very happy to hear that, Karen.It ' s good to know I'm working in such a company.
There's nothing I can think of.
I don't know, but you know how to surround yourself with great friends!
I need to rent three pairs of skates for the morning.
Please double space it and print it out on the laser printer so I can read it easily.
We are willing to work with you, but do you think it would be possible to extend your confirmation deadline? We need to check the warehouse to make sure the products are in stock. The earliest I will be to get back to you is tomorrow morning.
If you plan on eating, you are.
Mark is parade his knowledge again.
Oh, but this pair of shoes are a bit too tight. Could I change them for something bigger?
Good! And then, the entire body. Never incline your body forward or backward. Take care to regulate the point of balance. Place it at your waist.
And don ’ t forget Mary, Tom ’ s twin sister. It’s her birthday, too.
Oh, It's quite all right, I suppose. It can't be helped sometimes.
It sounds so moving.
I'm terribly sorry, but I've already made arrangements for Wednesday.
That would be nice. Could you also get me a pillow and a blanket, please?
So, let's look at the check. The total is $ 36.00.
you bet. Almost all top brands such as McDonald's and KFC are from America.
Yes. Think about it carefully.
their interest rates are usually quite high. It’s a good idea to pay off your credit card debts before they attract interest.
What a pity! I missed it again.
I want my appliances to be delivered as we are moving into the house.
we've heard so much about Chinese film stars divorcing foreigners.
Mr. Thomas is quite busy, I ’ m afraid he won ’ t be able to see you today.
That's wonderful. Isn't your company part of ARE Corporation?
Yeah, besides, your credit will be deducted. That is kind of serious.
Hi, Mr. Smith. This is Mary. Is Jenny there?
that'd be great. I'll see you then!
How about some lipstick? Every woman needs a nice tube of lipstick.
It seems to me that you fall for good-looking guys.
Her name is Laura, isn't it?
I'm quitting because of the lousy salary and all the difficulties I have in getting along with my colleagues.
Here ’ s an ad. about a big sale of washing machine. Do you want to see it?
Yes, everything. I feel overwhelmed by the daily work. Sometimes, I just can ’ t focus on what I am doing. What is worse, though I make plans for a whole week, I always have to make changes later on because other things come up. I can ’ t manage my time well. I can ’ t handle work well. I am afraid I was screw up more things.
I hope not but it will take at least three hours.
You should have kept trying.
Sorry.We don't have a printed one. Is there anything else I can do for you?
I wish to move up to higher positions with acquisition of more experience in the future.
Why not go the youth restaurant? You will have a happy lunch there.
Fine then, what time are we going to leave?
I can certainly do that. Is there anything else?
That's right. You know, pink, green and black could also be good for you. Actually, I think that all colors are okay for a person with your complexion. It's just that different colors can give people different impressions. For example, black could make you look mature, while pink could make you look young and energetic.
But you are too slow to follow them.
Can you give me directions to the office?
That explains it.
Do you have something to read?
Just find the answer through Internet.
But I already tried my best.
It's time to leave the office for the night. Firstly I log off my computer, then I set the electronic security system.
At least one for your trip.
Waiting for someone.
I hate computers. Sometimes I think they cause more trouble than they're worth.
Yeah, I know, my vision is really blurry at times.
But whether you like it or not, there ’ s a trend of life-long study to make sure that we can keep ourselves up with the high developing society. And you need to accept this concept positively.
What's the admission charge?
Did you ask his former sectary, Lora? She knows a lot about him.
Thanks. Do you think we have enough for the kids to eat and drink?
what about a factory tour?
Well, then. Would you send to Japan, please?
Well, it is hard to say. At least you need to come up with a good reason.
I surely do. They must have had advanced machines in ancient China to do that.
What ’ s the job title?
Yes, but I am on holidays this week.
I have to support my parents who are advanced in age, so I'd like to commence at HAD 2,500 a month.
I'd love to squeeze in a trip to the Great Wall.
What's special for today?
My birthday? I forgot it, Thank you for remembering my birthday.
What kinds of clubs?
I've always liked green apples.
No. It doesn't. But it includes all other on board activities.
Did you happen to meet someone?
Please have him call me at my office. He knows the number.
Well, I guess on Friday, then you can eat.
Can you tell me the name and number of the person you want?
If the weather's fine.
What? Again? Why do you keep running out of money?
Maybe we'd better go now.
I must apologize for having delayed the work.
Just fill out this application. We can let you know right away if you qualify.
Ok. I ’ ll put the plates and cutlery away as I dry them. Where is the tea towel? Oh, here it is.
Yeah, we had a great time. And we're going to go there again next week!
Mmmm... how about the period of repayment?
Didn ’ t I tell you? It’s over!
Oh, it's fantastic.
You are right about that. It's quiet and very convenient. You can get to the bus and the subway stations within ten minutes ' walk. There's a grocery store, a book store, a gym, and many restaurants along the street.
I'll measure you... You take size 6. What colour hat would you like?
That ’ s great. Thank you.
How ’ re you today?
Oh. You're new to smoking still. I've been smoking for 7 years.
I want to go back to school.
You seem to have filled the form out all right. Are you familiar with our rules and fines?
That is good of you to say so.When can you start working?
Ah... let's just climb. It's more fun, I think.
It's OK. Thank you.
But think about it, you just need to pack your stuff and leave everything for the movers, how much trouble you will save.
Get up as early as six o'clock only to be jammed at every crossroad and still late for work. What a life! I've had enough of it.
Please show me the menu again.
I don't recall.
Ok. I'll call you Saturday morning.
It was first built about twenty-five hundred years ago.
I ’ m going to need you to show me how to use the machine.
If we do not employ you, what are you going to do?
As soon as possible. Can I have it right now?
Yes, you're right, it does. But we believe it's less harmful to the environment than landfill
I have two people to a room. The $ 80 room rate is the lowest I could find. With the conference going on that week, all the hotels have inflated their prices, they're making a killing.
Come in, come in!
You have a temperature, but it's nothing serious. It's probably just the flu. I'll give you a prescription. Take this to the chemist's. Take one tablet every four hours. You should stay in bed tom
Now, tell me, what do you eat?
Happy New Year, Thomas. How many joys nice drinks with us, will you?
let me look. Let ’ s see... they ’ Ve got one in blue, green, pink, black... and white. Here you are.
May I have your name please, sir?
That's all right. Please ask me if you don't know how to do something next time. You can keep the silk dress if you don't mind. I think it fits you.
How do you keep fit?
Sure. I will ask Lucy to call you in two days.
have you tried The Peninsula Palace Beijing? My wedding reception was held there and they did an excellent job.
I haven't decided yet.
650 Yuan! You must be kidding! I can subscribe for evening newspapers for ten years with that much!
I wrote the check out for way too much.
How can you stay so calm? Aren't you going to take a look to see if there is anything for you?
What is your job?
I ’ m sorry, but I can ’ t find the book that you lend me.
Eight dollars fifty a week excluding laundry.
How do your spend your time after work or in vacation?
Keep your voice down. We'll talk more later. Right now I need to see Vince.
Yeah.The autumn is marvelous here.
So go then.
So I have, but I has reminded me at least one thing I need to remember.
Hi there, I want to reserve a hotel room.
Do you get special training in office skills?
What kind do you have?
Then we'll have four-jewel soup.
It is obvious that their government is nursing the hope of having all other countries over a barrel and bring them completely under their control.
Well, I'll help you learn how to use these machines.
that's right. Do you have any experience in management?
It's Valentine's Day. Come on. Just go.
How Ay people will be there at dinner?
I need to get a passport.
Well, I am wondering if we took a hang-out for a drink or something. You know, I just came back from a really tough interview. I was quite nervous during the interview. I really want to have the job. Right now, I am still a little on the edge. I am not sure if I could convince them during the interview.
I'd like to stay there for a week.
Oh, I didn't think of that. Well, this reception reminds me of weddingparties back in China. Plenty of food and drink, music and dancing, and interesting traditions.
No, thanks. I'm in a hurry.
You can transfer Fuchengmen.
morning, Mr. Winthrop. This is Sally Parker, Mr. Emory ’ s secretary. Mr. Emory has asked me to set up a meeting with you.
The one made in the early Tang period is bigger and has more characters on it, while the one with smaller and elegant characters was made in late Tang period. Look carefully, and tell me if you see the difference now.
Let's take a walk for a half an hour. My sister will get here at about 8: 30PM and then we can all go out to dinner.
yeah... it seems what we have on TV now are either repeats, or commercials, or low-quality shows. There's really nothing to watch.
I did. I especially liked the food. What do you think about the food here?
Yes. I remember. But we never used to argue. You used to think I was wonderful. Where are you going?
Make sure that you pick up a flyer with the information about the home.
Perfect. So, I guess my next job is to go to the newsagent and buy some car magazines. Thanks for everything.
It's my new pendant. Do you like it?
Just hang on there a sec. Can I get a price check on Fun Times Ribbed Condoms please!
It was a good company to work for, I enjoyed my time with them.
The weatherman says it's going to snow tomorrow.
Of course I should have! You certainly deserve them! You put up with all of us.
Yeah. The final is next week. You have to watch it.
All right. I'll see you next time.
That ’ s just what I need. Thanks so much. You ’ Ve been a big help already.
All right. And do you want to separate bills or just one single bill?
I ’ d be glad to help.
Then will you put all the towels under the bathroom door?
Yes, I took off 4 kilos. I am glad you notice it.
Turn on the TV, please.
But it's the White House. The president and his family live there.They won't let us see most of it. Probably we can only see a couple of rooms.
It's a monthly magazine, but my column will be shared with another columnist so my articles will be due fortnightly.
Yes. I am Thou Ping.
Yes, he was. I imagine he must be very angry with himself for that.
Oh, then I will arrange one of my staff to meet you at the airport.
Well, Mr. Smith. That's a nasty infection you have.
Let me see... The weekend after next looks pretty good.Otherwise, I'm all booked up.
Yeah, we were classmates when I was in university.
I ’ m not going to be able to vote this Tuesday.
You know that? Dan got a divorce.
Will I know the results right away?
I said I am informing you of the interview.
Well, I don't understand it very well.Will you draw me a map?
Will you be voting this year?
Sure. How about Monday?
No, you don't. We use computers now.
Right. Just take off your jacket and shirt. And lie down on that bed over there... That's right... Now, just hold up your right arm, will you?... Does this hurt?
I ’ ll take this one.
No, I'll have the fish please.
You know, I am a waitress at the student center. Anyway now those final exams are almost over. I ’ d love a night out.
And those pencils? What should I do with them?
What time should I call back?
UCLA accepted me!
A new broom sweeps clean anyway.
Mm, I love burnt bread.
Fine.Would it be OK to look at the room?
Well, first they exfoliate my face, getting rid of all the dead skin. Then I get a face mask with nutrients that keep my skin healthy and young. Afterwards, they apply some moisturizer and you leave feeling like a million bucks.
Mike, this is Leo in Sales. I was just calling to confirm our meeting tomorrow.Are we still on?
How's everything going?
Hello! How do I restock my minibar?
Sure do. I get a kick out of looking punk.
It’s cheaper, isn ’ t it?
Excuse me Miss, my friend is sick.
the meal have never disappointed me.
You're right, Sarah. I was a fool. I can't believe it. How could I fall for such a trick?
That sounds great. I'm absolutely starving! What kind of food are you in the mood for?
Walk straight ahead until you come to the second traffic light. Then turn right.
There ’ s not a very high demand for that kind of job, isn ’ t there?
Yes, that is one of the houses that we have on our list.
OK, I'll call ahead.
Indeed, it is.
You are really a good employer, Mr. White and I am very lucky to have such a good boss like you. But this new job is more in my field of interest training. It's something I have always wanted.
I hope you will make us your best offer, CIF New York.
I'm most upset to hear that.Are you better now?
I suppose all the other terms remain unchanged.
I am most interested in Pasadena or Arcadia, but would be open to other suggestions.
Yes, sir.Is there anything else you want, sir?
So would you say if things don ’ t go your way at work it could easily get you down?
Good morning, I'd like a haircut.
I'm glad to meet you here. You're Ms....
Hello, nice to meet you. I ’ m Mr. Gotcha. Have any trouble finding the place?
I think my English is fairly good. As you can see from my CV, I graduated from university with a B. A. degree in English. I studied the English language and English literature systematically.
Let me look at the timetable.Shakespeare meets Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 11
what happened? Why didn't he win?
I went there last year. If you want, I can give you some information I have about the city.
You're welcome. Let me know if you need anything else.
It's an old superstition. If we have thirteen people at the table, then it means bad luck. Can Andy bring a date?
Some people get nasty on those comments. Maybe you should write him and ask nicely.
Peter? This is Steven from China. I've got the document you want.
OK, I'll go.
Can I start moving in after I finish signing these documents?
Is there always a lot of people on that bus?
Well. I am really tired from packing all of the stuff all day. And it's about time to clock out.
The skateboard does not pollute the air, either. It can be used as a tool to ride instead of walk.
I'll put your drink order in and be right back to get your dinner order.
Anything new at the office?
Easy come, easy go.
You have a job?
Yep. I placed a bid for the shirt. The minimum was ten so I bet fifty!
No, sir. There's no extra charge. All you need is your room key to open the door.
My last appointment is at 3, so I should be free by 5 at the very latest. I think I could get to the airport by 6.
That would be over by the paper towels and toilet paper.
I'll tell you what, if your pet can fit in this little box and doesn't have fur, it is welcome here.
I am not sure, where exactly is it?
Could I get back the sweater you borrowed?
You didn't see it?
Hi, Mikel. What's with you? You look angry.
I ’ m sorry, sir. Airline policy allows only two pieces of checked luggage, at twenty kilograms each, plus one piece of carry-on luggage. I will have to charge you extra for the additional suitcase.
Just for being a few days late?
Yes, you have many opportunities to grow in this company as long as you do well.
It hurts smack in the middle of my gut!
Some friends of mine took me to the mall to go shopping. It was so big. I think I could get lost if I went there alone.
Is this Ann?
Almost all are for my friends in the States.
I have rights, don't I?
About twenty minutes.
She ’ s a consummate professional and a team-player. I have utmost confidence in her abilities. You can ’ t go wrong in hiring her.
There is a formula to determine the amount based on how much you earned. They will let you know when you file your claim.
It's better because it doesn't tie up the phone.
In that case, I ’ ll get you to fill out this paperwork. I ’ ll need your social insurance number, and two pieces of government ID. If you could just sign here, and here, and here. we ’ ll be all set. Would you like to make a deposit today?
oh. I had hoped she would have called me back yesterday.
Look at the traffic. It’s terrible!
Well, take care of yourself, and don't say I didn't warn you.
Hi, my name is Ted, what's yours?
Really? Then I will come to Beijing in the fall next time.
Hello, reservation desk. Can I help you?
Oh, so he's half Chinese and half American. That's unusual. What languages does he speak, then?
Both the pop music and the oil painting ate arts, but with different aesthetic values.
If I do try to do anything, I ’ d only be sent off with a flea in my ear.
I'm going to Japan this year on vacation.
There's nothing definite I think. I don't have a list or anything, but when I first meet somebody, I can usually tell whether or not that person is going to be a good friend. It seems I have a radar helping me spot new friends.
What do you mean by cautious?
My lease ends next month, so I have to find a new place.
You are a graduate, right?
I won ’ t rent it if the faucet isn ’ t fixed.
About five years.
that sounds reasonable. How about this, from now on, you can be responsible for scheduling. That means that if you can't find someone to cover a shift, then you'll have to do it.
I think the guarantee's just run out. Let me check. Oh, it's OK. We took out an extended warranty, it runs until next March.
Couldn't you raise the commission to five percent?
So I stopped drinking coffee late at night instead.
Will that be cash or check?
Because it helps you speed up your circulation.
Yeah, the buildings and designs of the Forbidden City are the peak of Chinese traditional architecture, not only scientific but also suitable for living.
Uh, oh, sure. Well, I think we should keep in mind that the key to good sales is advertising.
Nothing important. I've been working overtime lately.
Sure, go ahead.
Says who? I don't think that is necessarily the case.
Look at the heels. They are slanting.
Congratulations on your first voting day.
On your account there is no limit to over the counter withdrawals, it won't cause a problem. Here's your money, 10,000 RIB. Please count it before you leave.
I am sorry, but I can't stay until the end of class.
But he's really kind at heart.
Yes, that's right. If you find this person becomes more and more important to you and you can totally trust her, then you can stay in love.
Could you tell me which kind of payment you'll choose?
I was wondering if I could ask you a few questions.
That depends. If you are lucky, you can see a vivid rainbow across over two peaks.
have you had anything to eat?
It seems not or somebody has recently received a large fax.
I am also wondering about the pay.
Yep. She's always got a bun in the oven. She was pregnant before marriage-a real sin in the Catholic Church.
I may just go to the DMV today, so I can pay the fine.
That sounds good. How are you doing, Linda?
I really enjoyed our evening together, Todd.
You mean I will smell the food cooking?
really? I ’ m very surprised. He doesn ’ t look like a guy who ’ d ever do that sort of thing, right?
I hope you can make the new cards just like my old cards.
Hello, this is Mr. Simon. May I help you?
It's been a full two years since we last saw each other.
I'll see what I have. What do you need it for?
7:30 PM at London-Chinese restaurant. I \ ' ll be at your place at seven to pick you up if you need a ride.
Hello. Can you help me?
Yeah, it'll make a hit, I think.When will it be on, do you know?
Can ’ t be better! Bob, aren ’ t you glad the semester is over?
Sure! What do you feel like having?
The same as usual.
You said this was the right stop.
So you always have fun on dates?
Are there any extras that she needs?
How long do you think this hailstorm is supposed to last?
Not at all. It’s a piece of cake.
I couldn't have asked for more.
Thanks, Tim.Nice meeting you, too.
What's the specialty of your restaurant?
Yeah. Well, I'll see you this weekend.
Walking under the sun is certainly not the way.
Hope there is no traffic jam.
That's funny, I didn't know a big fellow like you could be so soft and timid on the inside.
It is a good habit to set your cell phone to vibrate. It is very annoying to hear the loud and sudden ring tone in quiet offices.
Would you like me to type it for you?
No, it's the Japanese team.
Well, I think so. But I am thinking of going aboard to get a master's and doctor's degree. If can get a Ph. D. abroad, it will be much easy for me to get a job at home.
The Internet is making interaction much faster. People are getting to know each other much more quickly this way.
Yes, you should be there. Go find the manager and ask. I think the manager will understand and approve you a day off. Don ’ t forget to fill in the leave application form. It will be signed by the manager for approval.
Carrie, I want to buy a pair of leather shoes to wear for the interview tomorrow.
I don't mind it, actually. I don't have to worry about what I'm going to wear every day.
I think so.Yes, they get along so well.
How should I dress for the party?
Yes, that's fine. I hope you enjoyed your stay in Boston?
He's cute! He looks like Tiger Woods! But, I can't dance...
It was made in Jingdezhen.
Thank you, Mr. Morris. Please wait one moment and let me check on the order. Would you like anything to drink, sir? On the house.
Sure. Your cash back is $ 13. And we'll bring out your fries in two minutes.
I hate to disappoint you, but unlike what most people think, we aren't all exactly the same!
Store credit is okay with me. I'm sure I will find something I like. I shop here a lot.
Yes, I did, thanks.
Sugar, sugar, preservatives, fats, more sugar, more fat, more preservatives!
You mean it shuts off to save energy?
Would you like to travel?
Exactly. Here is the Nine-dragon Screen.
Well. You ’ re here.
Oh, more than ten years. I started learning English when I was still in a primary school from a foreign teacher.
I don't think so. I think we had better go there earlier, or we may have to spend a lot of time waiting.
Thank youse much for all your help.
Honey, that ’ s my pinkie. The ring goes on the ring finger!
Thank you. I have got quite clear idea of it.
Sure. I think pepper steak is quite good. Many guests like it very much.
Calm down, sir. You are creating a commotion.
I'd prefer the night tour.
Hi, I was wondering if you have my test results in.
No. We ’ ll get a cab. It’s faster than taking the bus or the subway.
How much for a bus pass?
Well, you've come to the right place. What kind of watch are you looking for?
Of course! How silly of me! Yes, 5 working days would mean this Friday, at the earliest. I see. I'm sorry to trouble you.
Who do you think that has the motive?
He has worked five years in that bank.
Our offer is RIB 300 per tape-recorder, F. O. B. Tianjin.
Yes, I suppose that's the best thing I can do for now. I'll be here on Thursday morning at 10 o'clock. Is that all right?
Oh, sorry to hear that. But, don worry! Taiwan has plenty of great things to eat. First, lets get you to the hotel.
No, I haven't. I'm awfully sorry. Can I send them to you?
I apologize for this mess. They ’ Ve got me handling so many projects, and It’s hard to keep things organized.
Hold the line, please. I'll put your call through.
I love the beautiful lawn. What a great front entryway!
Well, take a look at everything and figure out what is best for you. Good luck!
Oh, how do you do, Mr.Zhang? This is Mary speaking, I have a present for you from Wu of Beijing.
there are 15 chapters in total.
Criminals are clever? They ’ re only successful when people are careless.
Wow, there are so many lanterns to appreciate. Now, I can see why it's called the Lantern Festival. It deserves its name.
Yes. I'm rather tired and want to go to bed early. Please make the bed.
Will our company have some recreational activities?
I think I need some iced water, too. Is there an extra charge for that?
More than one. I think the count is now three, if I remember correctly.
Sorry isn ’ t good enough! What can you do to help me?
I'm in finance. You?
Just click on one of the choices they give you, and that ’ s it.
Have you thought about going Dutch?
Should I accept their offer?
Great! I'm Rudy Randolph, 818-555-1234, and my reservation was for April 9 to 15.
Sure, I can go to the store for you. What do you need?
Oh, I see. Will I lose any money if I decide to withdraw on it now?
Yeah, he first said it was someone from work. He gave me a lame excuse, and so I pressed him on it.
What kind of movies do you like, Sue?
It can show your good attainment as well.
Julia, I saw two men fighting beside our door this morning.
The rent is $ 1050 every month.
I agree, I had lunch there last week.
But I think Digest is supposed to be the top one. Its subscribers or buyers are from all social classes, perhaps, a majority of them from the educated group. It's quite strange that the readers love it after reading it.
Great, the price for that permit is thirty dollars ; cash, check, or credit card?
Well. In that case, you must have got good records in English, too.
Do you have all types of seafood here?
You can rest assured that we won't disturb others anymore.
I feel that the whole committee needs to be there.
Things are going well for me, Joe.
All right.We ' ll take the second row.By the way, how much is it?
Do you really?
No. You'd look under ' W '. The articles ' a ' and ' the ' don't count in our alphabetization, and cards are generally omitted for extremely common words and phrases such as ' history of ', ' introduction to ', ' story of ' and so forth.
Put it in the waste-paper basket, please.
Yes. I'm interested in your package tour to Paris. Could you tell me more about it?
Do you think what I did to Elvin was out of line?
Have you bought your bus pass yet?
You are a candy terminator. Be careful or you'll get a lot of cavities.
Why not? Why can't we go back to the way things were?
What about the insurance and housing policies?
Well, the cigarettes and the champagne are not in excess of the duty-free allowance. But according to our law, each passenger is allowed only one camera duty-free. You ' ll have to pay duty for the other one.
My stomach is bothering me.
We will provide you with life insurance, health insurance, accident insurance, housing benefits, heating allowance and transportation allowance.
I want to make a deposit.
Oh, hi Melissa. Are you going to the conference too? I was planning to pick up Mr. Campbell.
Oh, I see. I think I prefer a natural one.
Are you using dial-up or broadband?
An apartment? Why?
The monthly sticker is $ 24, but the actual pass is free.
That the meal was lowkey awesome.
You are making me feel really discouraged.
Dumplings again?! Oh, Amy, let's try something new!
Were you in a leadership position when you were a college student?
I see. Well for this amount I will have to get my manager ’ s approval.
Yeah, a dancing queen. Wanna go and join them?
What are you studying all day long for? It’s summer vacation!
Me too.You look so beautiful tonight! I wish this night would never end.There ’ s something I have to tell you...
You always worry too much about everything. Take it easy, honey. You are good enough. You can go to the ideal college.
By the way, Miss.Where is the toilet?
Yes, a medium Coke.
Hmm. Your file shows that you watched ' Titanic ' Monday night.
Excuse me. May I take you a picture?
The thing is I've replaced once already. I think it's just a faulty batch.
You can if you want. But the police usually don't do anything about lost wallets.
Full of energy and hope.
posters are difficult to travel with. I think I'll just buy the postcards. I heard that you might also have some of the masks that are made in Venice.
I know, and we've been on the bus forever.
Well, I'm glad you're starting to pay more attention to your diet.
I suggest you talk with him and teach him how to deal with the problems.
Congratulations on being a part of history.
Everyone needs to be there.
How am I supposed to log on to the computer?
oh, It’s pretty popular among my classmates these days. So are you?
You ’ re welcome
Where are you going to spend your holidays this year, Tom?
That's my cousin Hubert. He likes smiling.
Thanks, good to meet you, too.
He lost his kids ' college money day trading.
where are you planning on going?
20 percent is the best discount I can offer. That will came to 72yuan.
How well do you know English?
I've heard the weather here is ideal, just like spring most of the year.
I believe it was declined.
thank you for reminding me. I'll continue to exercise as soon as I finish this project.
You are welcome, sir. Good-bye.
I understand. That's why I didn't write the date on the contract.For the first two weeks, we will pay you according to the hours you teach.When you have 22 hours of classes, then the contract will take effect.Is that alright with you?
It's ten after six.We ' re late.But dinner is at six thirty.
It's not like him to be late.
Yes. I suppose it's best to stop.
that Italian restaurant in the city centre always has large portions. Do you want to go there?
Well, he should pay you back. It’s only fair.
I think I ’ d like to just get another stereo, please.
I think, as the saying goes as the saying goes haste makes waste, it is the same thing with marriage.
I want to spend two days in the mountains with friends. The city is too noisy. Do you know Tangle Temple?
You surely know a lot about Chinese tea.
Thank you! That would be very kind of you. I have a saw in the garden shed.
It will give rise to occasional insomnia. OK, let's enjoy the tea before it gets cold.
No, I haven ’ t.
Are these all your personal things?
I'll try.
One of my snowshoes got caught on a rock.
Just two. How much does the trip cost?
sorry, I've got people coming over tomorrow night.
Is this going to cost me anything?
Is it close to the subway station?
I'm going to have to say that Superbad is the best movie ever.
What would you like to order?
Can I make a reservation for flight FW58 to San Marino?
Tell me about fees.
I was responsible for sales.
They are very large, discount department stores.That means their prices are very good.And you can find everything you need for the kitchen or bathroom.
Excuse me. I need some storybooks in easy English. Do you have anything likethat?
Here comes the bus. I'll ring you up later.
Yes. And if you already have a Current Account with us, the Insurance Premium can be paid through it, which saves all of us a lot of hassle.
Of course, madam.
Miss, which is the movie channel? I can't find it.
Pleased to meet you too, Ms. Pewless. I travel a lot every year on business, but this is my first visit to your country. I must say I have been much impressed by your friendly people.
There is a fire in your building. You need to evacuate immediately.
is it still under warranty. If it is and I can ’ t fix it, it would be quicker and easier to exchange it for a new one.
Well, I just think he deserves it.
There's a little bread and there are a few biscuits.
It's simple. All we do is prepare some food, usually sandwiches and some fruit, and give it out to them at the soup kitchen.
What are your career goals, Miss Li?
We'd better not move him. I'll get the first-aider.
I must confess I have an ulterior motive for asking you to lunch.
I see. Okay, well let ’ s move on to discuss your education shall we?
Did you work at all during the last pay period?
No, it will be another hour.
Yes, you need the traveler's check but you needn't get any foreign currency. You can have my US Dollars, I don't need them.
What are you doing, karen?
Then you got a windfall! Was sixty-five the original price, or did you get a special discount?
how was your education going on in Australia?
Are you ready to order?
Because I like him.
I would like to order cable.
do you have internet in your room?
Hum, what you say make sense. But you know, I still have to ask my parents for pocket money, and I hate to do so at this age.
Can we order a mixed drink in this restaurant?
I'm a student at UCLA.
Maybe I'm making a big mistake cashing in my Time Deposit before maturity.
Stay around for a while.The party is warming up.
When does the cloakroom close?
Grapefruit juice and please make my coffee very strong.
How do you get along with the American students in your classes?
What are your plans for today?
Good evening, David.Good evening, Mary.It ' s so good of you both to come.
Another problem is that I dare not look into their eyes whenever I meet strangers, especially foreigners.
That's for the wine.
Would you and your wife care to come to our place and have tea with us some afternoon?
This Friday, I'm throwing a party.
Okay. Is all going well?
Of course! That's why I always say, Eat, drink and be Greek!
You have the point. I think cancer is caused by more worry than by the things we consume. Some good things you should try are cranberry juice, wild rice and yoghurt.
do you have a copy of your family tree in your house? I ’ d love to see it.
Then how about this room, with just shower?
I have been a salesman.
You're so old-fashioned. That's what people used to think about people from another country!
It's typical Net Love, and a typical lesbians ' homosex! HA!
How are you going to do that?
Wow, is that your sports car?
They are all pretty easy-going. It's a very friendly place to work.
Sure. What do you fancy?
He got the scholarship to Harvard.
I really hope it rains today.
My birthplace is Suzhou.
I suppose I do.
Jim is a genius. He gets along well with everybody and he can always get the work done.
Hmm... I sometimes like mysteries, but I don't think I'm in the mood for one right now.
I was hoping that we could take a walk down the street to my favorite cafe.
Do you see that small white car over there? It’s Tom ’ s new car.
I'll send someone up right away.
The whether in Beijing is just beautiful.
Let's go ask about it.
I think that's an important part of it all... we've got to be able to see another side of our co-workers and boss... We can see what they're like as real human beings, working together on some project, for fun. I really think it helped our team jell together better.
Thank you very much. I had a really good time.
Have you tried these little ditties? They are really good.
You can yell at them.
I need to find a new furniture set for my living room.
Well, Miss Li, it's time for us to say good-bye to each other.
I want to take Shield on a date but I don't have much money.
How do you feel about hiring that clown to come and entertain the kids?
let ’ s get a chunk of cheese too. Is that everything.
Mom, can I have one more piece of cake?
Yes, it's Mel Gibson.
OK, do you want large notes or small ones?
What's the price per day '? And are the meals included or extra?
That ’ s very kind of you, Helen. I hope you don ’ t mind my leaving you like this. I need a holiday. It won ’ t be long.
I think that is our waitress is over by the bar. Boy, the service has not been good this evening.
Yes. I regard instructor as a decent occupation and I love to be an instructor.
And I suppose sitting at a desk all day at the office doesn't help.
The client you're meeting tomorrow likes to ask a lot of questions, so you have to be well prepared.
That's the bad thing---the contract ends in June, so we'll have to find a new apartment soon.
What do you say next Wednesday then?
Can you tell me how long the pipe has been leaking?
Well. And what about DVDs?
I think so. I bought it four months ago.
My wife and I are thinking about taking our parents with us on a vacation. Do you have any suggestion about where to go?
I just opened up my own business not long ago.
Sounds fun.Anyone I know?
No. I'm still single.
Sure.Where would you suggest?
In fifties please.
Exactly how long is my lease for?
Playground. We're having sports for today's outside class activities. All my classmates have already got there.
Well, we don ’ t have any pre-existing illnesses or conditions, so we should be fine.
I don't like ice cream with too many different flavors in it.
Is there a big selection of organic foods at Whole Foods?
And if we don't need them, we won't need Zina, either.
How could you have the heart to kill it? We only have one!
We thought it would be fun to have a pool party at Jay's house.
I know! I was in ankle deep water trying to get to my car that day! The handyman definitely has his work cut out for him.
Nothing that serious. She finally told them that she moved out of the dormitory a few months ago and has been living with her boyfriend.
It’s okay. I ’ m still waiting to hear from UCLA anyway.
I shall wear light make-up instead of heavy. The face powder will lighten my skin color.
Oh, it's too spicy for me. Don't you remember last time when I tasted the lamb? It Was so spicy my eyes teared up!
Here's your key, sir. Room number 1405.The bellboy will take your luggage to your room. Have a pleasant stay!
Shall we make it 250 dollars?
I see.You ' re a stranger here.Walk two blocks ahead, then turn left. You can't miss it.
Is it ready to eat?
Oh, no. Really? I didn't see anything.
Not bad, just let it go.
Dave, wake up.
Sorry, I think I'Il sit out the next dance.
They are behind the door.
What do the preliminary figures tell you? Any kinds of trends going on for the branches in the Far East?
I understand completely, sir. Housekeeping will bring you souvenirs in just a moment.
Oh, yeah, two beers.
Good Morning, Mrs. Schmidt! I see you're standing on your head again.
Are you feel tired?
How many different varieties of products do you import from China?
I think so. The wedding will be held at her church, right?
You think so?
I ’ m so thirsty.
Oh, yes. Any kind of goods are dependable as our shop is well-known throughout the city.
No. I was here last semester, but I didn ’ t find out about this class in time. So I ’ m taking it this semester.
Sounds that way. Maybe some other time then?
Wait a moment.
Yes, they are. I have charged the tickets to your credit card. They are 630 dollars each, so It is 1890 dollars for all three.
The robber came in with a gun.
What? That ’ s odd. I ’ m so sorry if I ’ Ve bothered you.
My car is simply a daisy. It drives smoothly.
That's pretty harsh.
They fit me very well. I like them.
Hello, Mr. Brown, long time no see. Where have you been?
I have a part-time job now, so I work in the evenings.
Actually, you cannot mail it in early, as it needs to reflect all of the information up to the due date.
Oh, A. Mom didn't tell you?
I thought you said this was easy.
Single, please. How much in total?
Here is a shop in the hotel. It's on the 11th floor.
Now you know why I wanted to work for the Post Office!
Nobody told me that before.
On Memorial Avenue?
Surely it will be. By the way, when will we get there?
Yes, it is.It ' s wonderful after the downpour.
You must be very busy these days. I heard you are responsible for the meeting arrangements this time. It can be the most important meeting for our company this year.
If I remember correctly, time of delivery is another point on wich we differ.
Oh, really? What do you do there?
Yes, the same service and food as in the evening.
This is the interview class. Welcome to our class.
It's a lot better than paying someone $ 60.
I am starving.
I am going to the mountains with my family this weekend.
You might think this strange, but I like the category for best foreign language film.
I also think that it was much better in the theatre than at home.
Oh, no, I'm afraid not. These things are just too old to guarantee anything.
She's been good. She is in grade one in Joy Chain high school. And she dreams to be a volunteer in 2008.
Remind me never to sign up for that course!
I hope that we can continue our cooperation.
That sounds good but I don ’ t know what ’ s on.
Excuse me, could you tell me where I can get a shopping basket?
The vegetables are kind of mushy.
Great. Sweet wines are my favorite. They always make a great finish to a decisions meal.
I don't make idle threats.
Good, morning! Can I help you?
You often like comparing children with their parents.
Where are you planning on going?
Hello, is this housekeeper?
Your wet towel, sir.
Get out of it! It wasn't as good as you think.
Let me have a try.
Good. Red suits me very well. It's a cheerful color, isn't it?
So, what did you get them?
What's the date today?
say hello to your friends for me.
All right. I hope we'll be able to enjoy our stay in a quiet suite tomorrow evening and have a sound sleep.
I'll do my utmost if I am hired.
It’s time for me to go now.
Yes, I have to be there to meet a friend at 5 thirty pm. So we're sure we can get there on time?
Excellent choice. I love its smooth flavor.
Make it work, Geoff. You would say that, wouldn ’ t you, he is your cousin.what a jerk, make me hire your stupid, useless, cousin.
What made you think that she wasn't very confident?
You don ’ t need plastic surgery to do that. You are fine the way you are and you have guys drooling all over you! Plus, plastic surgery hurts!
Good morning, sir. Here is the hotel's sauna room. What can I do for you?
Is there any thing else, sir?
I'm seeing a show at Rockefeller Center.
I think that I will mail it in right away when I get it next time, so I won ’ t be late.
You see I do business on a commission basis. A commission on your prices would make it easier for me to promote sales. Even 2 or 3 % would help.
OK. Let me see where to start.
Sure. Let me look over them and I ’ ll bring them back this afternoon.
How's that?
I was born in Xinjiang.
May I see your passport?
I think the cloisonn bracelet is more beautiful.
$ 500per light?! That's ridiculous! It can't possibly be that expansive!
Oh, that's too bad. Do you get a good knowledge of China?
Don't worry. Everything will be fine.
It is difficult.
Where shall we go now?
All right. I ’ ll call her later.
Will it be good beach weather?
When did it start?
All right. I got it. What color is your car?
Ok, now for the last and best dish in my opinion. This is called Pad Thai. It's stir-fried noodles with eggs, fish sauce, tamarind juice, red chili pepper plus bean sprouts, shrimp and tofu and garnished with crushed peanuts and coriander. It's practically Thailand's national dish!
Are you feeling better today, Bill?
Thank you. I ’ ll try my best.
Are there any disadvantages about it?
I am going on my first date tonight. Can you give me some suggestions about what to wear?
Did you stop at the Fall for some pictures?
We don't care about money. We'd like to have some good dishes of local specialties.
How nice seeing the sun back again! The air is so fresh.
Well, If you can wait until tomorrow, we will put you up in a hotel for today and you can take scheduled flight for tomorrow morning.
Must I catch a number 7 bus to get there?
There's no price tag on this necklace.
Just go through the No. 8 ticket-barrier over there. A train will be in directly.
How about you? Have you got any news from university?
What a beautiful home!
She ’ s got quite a crowd around her. Oh, look! That little girl caught it!
I don't care, it's school in the morning.
I can't see it.
They showed flowers that only provide their nectar to one type of butterfly or bee. The insect has to be the exact size to get the nectar. Other insects cannot get it. Of course, when the insect collects the nectar, it also takes some pollen from one flower to another.
OK, sir. Please wait a moment, we will check your room.
The officer says that I ran a red light, but I didn't.
Come on, Mary, it's your brother, Jack.
Ashley, what a great dinner party!
Usually it's 60 dollars for a manicure, and 80 dollars for a pedicure. But with this special discount, the total for both is only one hundred and 20 dollars, and you can get them painted.
It's broken.
It is hard to tell. Maybe it is because you're not resourceful enough to be a manager.
I have found myself a date mate.
I want the money to be transferred into my checking account.
A wise decision. If you decide to take out a short-term loan with us, say for 6 months or less, the interest rate shall be for that of a 6 - month loan.
where did you end up going?
Of course. Well, in that case we could offer a 5 % discount for a confirmed monthly order for the next 12 months.
Mary, my friend recommend me for a job to work in a company, and I feel it's great.
I wish I could, but it's already late.
What a wonderful sight!
I thought strawberry cake with cream cheese frosting was your favorite?
Maybe. Several people have suggested that I get more yellow clothes. They say the color suits me because I have a fair complexion.
They made you spend the night at the station?
Of course, Mr Hayes. That's what I'm here for. What would you like to know?
Let me play it for you.
I have learnt how to ride a bicycle. I plan to go to the Water Park by bike this weekend.
what kind of program are you looking for? Full-time or part-time?
I ’ d rather you didn ’ t come immediately as I said I ’ m very busy at the moment. Come after lunch, Mark.
We have mild wines and strong liquors. Which kind do you prefer?
But now you can stay with friends and enjoy a holiday too.
The department manager is all over her. He says he loves her.
"Okay Tracy, now it's too relaxed! You've still got to show some respect. How about starting with "" Dear Ms. Cooper, I'm writing to confirm...? "
Let's enter it!
I don't know... Well, maybe, you're right, but how am I going to tell her?
Hello, is that Miss Smith?
This historian is famous in the field of Tang Dynasty.
Yes. And also, we can find Yuanxiao with both sweet and salty fillings.
Did you happen to watch the football game last night? The Patriots scored in the last minute!
A warrant for what?
Where are you going to spend your holidays this year, Harry?
Yeah, you are right. But we have to know how to make good use of it.
I took care of commercial and residential coolers and heaters. I fixed many kinds of power failure problems. Some co-workers and I even rewired part of a building.
well, skip over all of that and read me the rest.
Yes. I'm looking for some perfume. Do you have perfumes with a light scent?
Actually, even though we have parades, most people just use the national day holiday to visit family or go shopping. In the evening, many people watch special TV shows which celebrate national day.
We cannot judge a man totally by that.
I think it would be a great joke.But I know we'd have to take the iguana back. And the pet store might not let us.So why don't we get him something else? Some clothes maybe.
The wine choices are posted on the little menu in the middle of the table.
Would you like some drinks?
I had been doing quite well. In all subjects, I got excellent scores.
Okay, I can give you a special discount, just because you seem like a nice person. One hundred and ninety dollars for both.
how have you been living without a cell phone for a week? hasn't it been driving you carry being without a phone?
Did I do it right?
Ok. China is about the same size as Canada and the united states and it has a population of about 1.3 billion, making it the latest country in the world by population.
Yes, it's not bad. I will need to see your passport though.
writers are always delightful.
Yes, I see. I'll take it.Here ' s $ 200.
That ’ s what you said the last time! If you want to smoke, you ’ ll have to use your break time and go outside!
Welcome, Mr. Sun.
No hard feelings. After all, he is a child.
sure, you should prepare so that you can give proper response when you're being interviewed.
I think you should do that soon. It will help you make a decision about the school you go to.
Lili, let ’ s take a vacation!
Well, shall I call Janet and ask her and Tom to come over, and I'll go to the store and buy some stuff.
Did you play network games the whole night?
You know that my father is irritable.
Adam, I'm sorry!
Have you figured out where you want to transfer to?
Waiter, please bring me some toast.
I did. Why?
Yeah, just the way you like it! I also put out some cereal and muesli if you feel like having something more light.
Very good. We'll meet at 6. Do you need directions?
It's harmful. Not only for yourself but for others.
so, It’s a three-bedrooms detached house?
I would love to join you on a hike. Could I maybe bring a picnic lunch for us to eat on the trail?
Is it all right for you to pay the bill this evening?
Don't worry, I've gotchy covered.
I might. what did you do yesterday?
Why are you always staring at Melissa? Do you like her or something?
how's your job search going?
Not really. To be honest, it's very cheap. I only spent $ 100.
Well, Peter, you have to do better than that next time, won't you?
Yes, but it's also a pretty big financial responsibility.
I couldn ’ t even if I wanted to. My parents told me that if I went home, then ’ d have to find my own place.
Actually there is a sample over there. But if you still have a problem, let me know.
If you'll just fill out this form, please.
Oh, no. As a matter of fact, I haven't danced for a long time.
I've never done that before. Will I lose all my files?
You're right. The view is spectacular. But that bedroom is so small. We'd never be able to fit all of our stuff in there.
OK! How much do you want to deposit?
Thank you. oh, can you get me some orange juice as well?
Oh, no, you don't.
Okay. There are two Customer Service Offices in your area. The nearest one is Chadwick and Hacks Appliances.
We appreciate your business.
Keep working hard, and then you will get another chance of promotion someday.
If you make every effort to the company, you will have a great chance to attend the on-the-job postgraduate. The tuition fee will be financed by our company.
Oh, it's delicious...
"Now let me sing "" Happy birthday "" for you."
Anyway, I get the desk by the window, you get the bottom bunk. That's it.
That would be okay if I had an Ethernet port. Unfortunately, my laptop uses wireless only.
My full name is Zhang Yong. Zhang is the surname or family name.
Your throat must be swollen.
Hey man, you hit my car.
I think it leaves at two-thirty.
How could I help but follow it? The fluctuation of dollar is killing my company! The exchange rates are eating into our profits, and we can't do anything about it.
One class is on Tuesday and Thursday from 2 p. m. to 4.
Right. Trains No. 13 and No. 14 are the best trains on the line between Beijing and Shanghai. Which seats do you prefer, cushioned seats, ordinary seats, cushioned berth, or ordinary berth?
It's Friday. We should go party.
which one would you recommend?
Here is your bill. 150 yuan in all.
I'm glad to hear that. I think it's the nicest city in the United States.
She is very nice and open-minded.
So I hear.
Based on what you said, does it mean that we can not have a trademark like ' genova ', right?
I found a great school for Junior!
Yeah! May I introduce Mis... eh... Miss...
We promise that if the products are sold out in two months, we will place a repeat order right away, at the same quality.
Well, I do aerobics every day after work. And then I play racquetball.
She tried, but the line is always busy.
This sounds better every second. Now, when can I use the stations?
This is Denise, Mr. Bruce ’ s Secretary. I was calling to confirm his meeting tomorrow with Mr. Dome at 4 o ’ clock.
Is there a price reduction?
You've got no guts!
Who stands out in your mind as a man or woman of sound character?
I like the big star on the top of the tree. I ’ ll put the presents under the tree later, how ’ s the food.
It’s too bad that you have to leave so early.
Okay, I'll take it. ( to be continued )
Don't tell me you want me to do that?
Alright.Well, I'll stay here and have another coffee. Nice running into you.
What's on tonight?
OK, by the way, fill the gas tank when you return the car.
When do you usually go to the movies?
Suddenly the ' great outdoors ' isn't so appealing. Let's hike a little faster...
Yes, what size is in your mind?
We have various colors. How about this one?
They've agreed to work over-time until it's finished. They've even decided to come in on the weekend.
You can use it however many times you need to.
I don't mind helping.
Mom, I want to move out.
Well then, I'll see you on Saturday. Thanks for asking me to go with you.
Where did you get assigned to go this time around?
Hi! Susan! I haven't seen you for ages!
I'd love to. I heard about Halloween when I was in Beijing. It's kind of a children's day. Small kids get dressed up, then walk around with paper bags or baskets, knocking on the neighbor's
Yes, actually. I don't really know anyone, but it's a nice place. Are you having a good time?
International Air Braking Systems.
Yes, it is. The sun is shining. There is no wind, only a pleasant breeze.
That ’ s true. many people from the south don ’ t like the whether here.
You are very nice and helpful. Hope to see you again.
Speaking of that trip, Alan bought a shirt at a department store, but the sleeves are too long. Do you know a seamstress or tailor who can shorten them?
Oh, thanks a lot. Then, I will take the two.
OK. I will take it.
That depends. Some semesters have many, some don't. And some courses don't have exams but only ask for papers. That's easy.
For the most part, yes. If you don't feel comfortable with it, then it is best not to take one at night.
it's not that bad. It kind of feels like I'm on vacation, not having to answer my phone all the time!
Yes, I want to know exactly where the money is going. Give me a detailed report.
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic that helps you with water retention.
Yes, they are all on the shelf.
we ’ ll have this finished in no time with two if us working on it.
Good morning! May I help you?
There are the pymeids. It’s easy to see how they got that name! they don ’ t have smooth sides though.
Yes. It's a birthday present from my husband!
I am consistently impressed by the game.
Not much. But there is a lot of traffic. I can't stand the noise sometimes! Where do you live?
What's the name of the girl that has just passed us?
Here is the fish counter. Look at the lobsters and crabs. Shall we have some?
That's the twenty-fourth of June?
Are you busy with your work?
Do you speak English?
Sure. The bittersweet perfume has a calming effect on the nerves.
I need to stay in the area because of my family.
Great! When can your technicians come to our factory?
It's very nice of you. I'll try my best to do my job well.
Yes, in many ways it is. There are many stereotypes I have to deal with in my daily life.
I start next Monday.
What's our target audience for this campaign?
I heard that she's one of the wealthiest women in the world.
yes. And I've brought some documents along with me, too. Do you need to see my passport?
In that case, you have to buy two full fare tickets.
What may I help you with?
Mr.Ben, What do you think of the book?
No, I ’ m not. My father smoked two packs a day for forty years.
Well, how about the 4th?
Thank you. Do I have to pay duty if I want to buy something?
OK, Allen. It's your turn. Are you ready?
You can't be serious!
Actually, I was watching your auction all along. I saw you drop out at $ 250.
Is there anything I can dor you?
Don't worry. He'll cross that bridge when he comes to it. My son reads a lot on his computer and uses e-mail to send messages to his friends almost every day. He's really absorbed by the discussions.
Hello! How can I help you, sir?
So all of that information will help you to pick out what to wear. Do you have something to wear?
I am awfully sorry but there are no vacancies left now. Would you like to wait for a moment?
I think you can say your seventh great grandfather! Cutie! What's his name?
Sure. Do you want it to be registered?
No, of course not. But I ’ m not able to do my work and neither are you.
At the supermarket down the street. Help yourself.
They are E / D cards. All passengers except American citizens must complete these forms.
OK, I'll talk to you soon.
I was just concerned about Sam. He hasn't been himself lately.
Have you ever been to it before?
You should telephone the garage for help.
So how long does it take?
Harry is a hen-pecked husband.
Thank you very much, ma'am, but we don't take tips in China.
Okay, if you'll please fill out these forms... ( She hands the forms to the customer. ) There's a minimum initial deposit of $ 100 for the checking account, and a minimum deposit of $ 500 for the savings account.
Will that be all for today?
Actually not so good. That's why we made a special trip to see you.
Who's it knocking at the door?
That ’ s Oolong tea – It’s a Cantonese tea.
OK. I'm Dick.
In order to listen to music, you must have the necessary software.
Yeah. Do you know that this restaurant used to be the teahouse where we first met?
You ’ Ve got to be kidding me! You ’ re complaining about me talking on the phone when you go out for a cigarette break ten times a day to shoot the breeze?
Well, why not try Spaghetti Bolognese?
How I wish my son Mark could be as excellent as your Joe!
This is Mr Brown speaking. I'd like to speak to Mr. Thomas, please.
Where would you like to sit?
Not completely. Our production process is partially-automated. We use robots on the production line for routine assembly jobs but some of the work is still done manually.
But honey, I think you ’ re terrific. There is nothing...
Can you show me how to use chopsticks?
Let me show you, the one with curly hair.
That's OK. But that must be costly.
Of course it does! They tell you general and obvious things like that you will be successful or have a big house. I think most of the times they are just scam artists.
You ’ re not going to be able to take these items today.
Yes, that's fine. My credit is good ; I banked at my former bank for many years.
Hello, Dana, this is Kevin Abrahams from Eureka Corp. I don't know if you'll remember me but we met last week at the Chamber of Commerce luncheon.
I am a vegetarian. Do you have any vegetarian selections?
Thanks, Jeanine, you are a real pal. Let's go in.
I'm just comparing prices.
Hmm. It all sounds very complicated.
Hello, Tom. How do you find the dinner of yesterday?
I will just be sincere and friendly to others, and I believe they will treat me the same way.
Your tree looks beautiful. Do you decorate it this way every year?
I am willing to take a second look because teachers make mistakes, too. Will that work for you?
Only $ 2,000? Are there any other ways to get the money exchanged?
There's plenty left. Would you like another helping?
It's divided into 8 big cuisines such as Cantonese food, Shandong food, Sichuan food etc.
And you think this is a good wine?
I'm fling, Jack. ( singing ) Come, Josephine, in my flying machine. Up she goes, and up she goes...
Is that right? I already got my invitation from her earlier.
I'll be back late tonight.
Well, we would like to sit over there. Is that all right?
The day before yesterday. I only visited Montreal and Ottawa, but I had a great time.
Don't worry about that, Dave. Look, I have to see Vince now. Think about what I said.
Your doctor wants to test your urine and needs a sample.
Is he messing up in school?
Not as much as I'd like to. Usually just on holidays like Thanksgiving and Christmas.
We don't have a full-sized swimming pool, but we do have individual swim stations.
Oh, spinach, I think.
2 hours. You won't get late for your train.
Hi, Doris. You look a little bit down. What's the matter?
Maybe when they become teenagers, they want to be completely different to their parents.
The telephone is ringing. Can you answer it, Sue?
I think I need a new notebook...
We're here all night long if you need anything.
Will you be paying with cash or check?
I can't tell you.
You say how high can be exciting?
It’s going all right. I ’ m learning some things for the first time, but I ’ m also brushing up on some things that I already know.
I wonder if I could have it insured here?
Are we losing or gaining a day on the way to America?
Tea and silk.
Jack, let ’ s go!
You don't mind, do you?
Oh, that's too bad. I just got a phone call saying that my wife is now in the hospital. She is going to deliver a baby. I must take the day off to go to the hospital. May I talk to him to ask for leave?
No, I ’ m serious.
I knew, but I couldn't myself.
That's correct. With DEL you can do both.
Sure. I teach history in a university. Have you heard of Dong-Hai University?
When you start to work, I ’ ll give you $ 3,000 a month.
Your pulse is weak.
I would look so cool carrying this around!
Sure, let's do it.
Gee, that's a great idea. Now, how much do I have to pay?
Yes. It's nice to meet you too. Are you a new student too?
I ’ ll pick you up here tomorrow.
That's it! That ’ s the one I was thinking of! I told you I'd remember it!
What are we waiting for? It's already 7 pm now. Let's buy some drinks and desserts now.
Who is looking after him?
Because you ’ d end up spoiled rotten if I wasn ’ t.
What do you plan to do for your birthday?
How do you feel about teaching my friend how to read?
Where was your last job?
In No. 4 Dorm. I like dorm life. You will meet a lot of people and you don't have to cook. What about you?
She is an opera star in China. Her teacher's teacher is Mei Landfang.
OK. I'd like to say that I've really enjoyed working with you. However, I think you should work harder at your new job and then you can ask for higher pay.
Mom! How can I help with the washing up?
That sounds good. They have a movie theatre there, so if we get bored, we can watch a movie.
We put 500 into the savings account and 750 into our stock account.
I'm sorry we won't do so for a new employee. We only provide this benefit to employees who have made significant contributions to the company.
Interesting idea. You might be on to something.
What range of salary do you have for this position?
Do you feel better now?
Yes, we have subtitles both in Chinese and English on the big-screen just beside the stage.
You could consider adding a painting program to your software. It would allow you to make up your own flyers and banners for advertising.
That's a secret.
Here you are. Where is the museum guide?
What's so bad about it?
Do you know what building that it's in?
How long does the route No. 5 last?
Please wait a moment. I'll check it in the computer. Thanks for your waiting. You've booked 10 standard rooms for trade negotiation for March 5th, 6th and 7th, is it correct?
It's too late. If you could get the job, could you start a little earlier?
Oh, I thought there were going to be eight. who isn't coming?
That suits me fine.
I got my connections! Just tell me what you want and I ’ ll even give you one ounce for free.
I propose we accept the minutes.
When I come late, there ’ s usually nothing left.
What the magic ward to say if you want something good to happen?
Classical music is supposed to be good for you brain. Research suggest that it makes your brain more active. Students who listen to classical music while studying perform better.
It was three all.
We're in a very competitive environment. It's sink or saimin this market.
All right. Welcome back anytime.
So he had the boxes wrapped in plastic.
I haven't shopped there. How is the food?
Sir, this hotel just passed a thorough insect inspection with flying colors.
It sounds like you're coming down with something.
Thank you, This is mine.
Have you had any type of cold lately?
Excuse me, are you Miss Green?
Let me see... Oh, I am awfully sorry sir.
He is such a handsome guy. He gets his looks from his mother of course!
Woo hoo! This just might be the start of the rest of my life!
Is there any minimum deposit for the first time?
I like the way Carl runs. He looks more graceful.
Guess what I just heard?
Oh, I see.how old is she?
Yes. Will you pay by cash or credit card?
Let ’ s rock n ’ roll.
Mr. Clinton, it's nice to see you again.
don't worry. Nothing bad will happen. I'll even buy your ticket for you.
Yes, a low fever. I feel terrible. Am I dying?
Have you read the new rules about using cell phone at work?
I don't know. I like this one, and I don't have any need for all the bells and whistles you get on the new ones.
Of course, sir... Here's the minutes of the meeting.
We need to get food?
Well, if not gymnastics, then mountain biking.
You should take it twice a day.
Yes, we're making plans for a tour.
Don't worry, but my clothes are made of leathers.
Well, it is a really high target.
Are you kidding? I really don't think that you think less clearly on non-vegetarian diet.
I don ’ t know. But he must be a big shot.
Does he often beat his son?
Hello, is this apartment management?
Hmm... have you got a receipt?
I've been really busy.
It should be there at 11:45, but it may be a little late.
Not to me, I wouldn't be caught dead in that.
I opened my blog today. In order to have more visitors, I have to land on others ' blogs and leave my messages for their blogs.
Yes please. Do you have any teas?
I feel exactly the same way as you.
I would like to see as many as possible.
No, I'll discuss the business with him at hotel.
Sorry Tom, We're having problems hearing you here. It’s a bit hissy. Can you hear us?
The wine list is posted right there on the board.
Have you hurt yourself?
No, they are from other factories.
I have a taste for Chinese food.
He's too young for the job.
Yeah! Our kidneys, liver and bladder!
Yeah, I really wanted to come, too. But something unexpected in Shanghai have come up. I have to fly out for a few days, but I'll be back soon.
That's right. Once the contract with Stars.com is final, we'll deal with Zina.
I stayed at Bob's last night.
This is almost like a Taiwanese night market! I can't believe it!
I think I must report to the cops.
Well I ’ Ve always been keen on writing, so I became the editor for the University student newspaper, which I really loved. Also I volunteered for a group called Shelter, to help the homeless in York.
Hello, police office?
I think it's either one or two gigs. I can't remember.
How do I use it?
Yeah. That's just what is troubling John.
Yeah, Bob moved in last week. He is a nice guy and so far everything is cool except this girlfriend.
I'II have another cup of beer insist. I know I don't like to drink alone, especially there are someone sitting there next to me.
In my opinion she will up about soon.
Moving to to Latin American, Ecuador has suffered a six month drought that has not only affected farming, but has also forced the closure of the hydroelectric power plant that provides electricity for the entire country. In Chile, a major earthquake that registered seven point five on the Richter scale struck the southern region. Losses are reported to be in the billions. Authorities have not yet released an official statement.
Do you have any postcards?
What ’ s good today?
We will inform you as soon as possible.
Steven Spielberg. Another superstar.
But they are so silly! They're not art!
Where is your dressing room?
Thank you miss... Wang. I'm Bob Jones and I'll be handling your application.
I need to get to work, so it better.
You can do two hours a day for three days.
May i please see ID?
Did you watch the Premiership last night?
Do we also need to punch out after work?
Exactly. I had tons of ideas that I wanted to share, but they just wouldn't let me finish. What should I have done to get my point across?
And do you really love her?
I usually make a few salads for lunch throughout the week and I make dinner about 6 times a week.
OK. Let me send a memo around.
They don't have enough time to peel it after they harvested them, so they hung them in the tree. Then in winter, they can peel corn ears in their leisure time.
Is it Fred's fault?
Glad to meet you. This way, please.
OK! Hurry, then! Here's my cup. I can't wait for step four!
But very much quicker.But I know we'll never agree on this subject.You prefer the car. I prefer the train.
When you move out, your father and I aren ’ t paying your rent, young man. Get a job.
Yes, please. We need a record of you education and your work experiences.
It is Europe's spotless land of lakes and mountains! Let me know as soon as you can so we can get a discount.
Right. The city life has made us tired and out of energy, while the natural world can bring us quite new feelings.
OK, I'll listen to you.
Just know that sometimes the money doesn't go in perfectly the first time and you have to try again.
what are your strong points?
You're smart to buy it. At 45 dollars for three days, it is a good deal.
Thanks, Mr. Liang.
There are two different types that we are offering at the moment, Dividend Deposit and Dividend Participated Deposit.
I'm sorry. I forgot to show it to you. Here it is. It comes with the pan.
I had a wonderful evening.
That would be great!
oh, that was just a quick bite to eat---that doesn't count!
I'd like to have red cooked sea cucumber.
I can wait, but my toothache can't!
Do you want to ensure the contents, Miss?
Someone you're living with.
Well, if there is anything I can do to help, let me know.
That ′ s impressive! What ′ s the sale price?
What kind of qualities do you look for in a friend?
Stop your nonsense! Quick. Let ’ s leave the place!
Right. Luckily it was on the eighteen hole, quite near the clubhouse, so he didn't have far to carry him.
Right, we'll have these three.
I also think the company is pretty cheap with travel expenses. I spent half of the weekend on a train! Surely they could have afforded to buy a few plane tickets!
OK, folks, let's get to work. We need to come up with some ideas for the new essentials perfume campaign. This is a really big contract and we are under a lot of pressure here to impress the client.
Have you settled the bill?
Is this to stay or to go?
Oh, it's the usual 5600x3200 resolution with 10.0 megapixels. It's got a 5xzoom, so from 28mm to 120mm the pictures look great! I can change the resolution, too.
Because I'm the wrong sex, of course!
Not at all. I ’ m an agnostic. Do you?
The same to me. All the things here make me happy, the mountain, the water, the grass, the birds, the sunshine...
Take a look at the ones on display, please.
I wonder if you could allow us any discount for this commodity. It's the general practice that wholesalers usually get some discount from manufacturers or suppliers.
Thank you. My husband gave it to me.
I'm afraid the cardboard boxes are not strong enough for such a heavy load.
Come on. You're great at teaching and I know you will love him. He's adorable!
Of course. I just bought it last year.
Rhaki.Do you want some?
Yes. My customer is in urgent need of the steel plates.
I ’ m glad you are enjoying yourself.
I may get some fruit.
Doesn't sound promising.
Peter really is a remarkable expert! There is very little he doesn ’ t know.
I think so. Aren't the four Cs, cut, clarity, carat and color.
I'm going to the park to play baseball with the guys.
We'd like to have a look around your house?
Now that ’ s a great idea!
I am frigid I can't be there on time.
And how much did it cost to rent it?
Are you nuts? It's the President of the United States in lingerie!
I have to tell you that I can't be in today and tomorrow.
Oh Jackie? We broke up last week.
Right. By the mid - 50 ' s, this light-hearted genre was competing with films about more serious subjects. There was one kind that could be found throughout all of these years, and that was the, mm, the...
Math, sheath. What ’ s the evidence?
I prefer a diamond mounted in a ring.
writers have never disappointed me.
All right. Hop in, please.
Sure. I'm J McQuillin and my number is 323-555-6840, extension 42.
My accounts go where I go. Vince knows that.
Don't worry, this will be the last class I miss.
If things are going so well, why do you want to leave the firm now?
Good idea. Then the trainer will help me to make a fitness plan. Besides that, what's your secret?
You should always keep in mind, the more you practice, the better English you can speak.
Just a moment, I'm coming.Now, what would you like?
You can exchange this dress with anything of the same value.
Yeah, it was a lot of fun.
Yes, I'd like a large soda, please.
I ’ m glad to have the opportunity of visiting your corporation. I hope to conclude some substantial business with you.
Thanks very much.
I heard it.
That's so simple. I'll come by my local branch later this afternoon and get it set up. Thank you very much, Tina.
Good afternoon, Mr. Anderson.
May i speak to David please?
We've taken on a civil engineer on a nine-month temporary contract. He'll oversee the whole project. In fact we're having a project meeting at 3 p. m this afternoon allocate responsibilities and finalise the time schedule. Why don't you join us?
I like small towns.
I didn't get any of them. I was waiting for you to text me the address of where the party was and I never got your message.
Yes, what sort of warranty comes with this stereo?
Then you would like the ' no frills ' business account.
That engineers was lowkey awesome.
Hello. Is Becky there, please?
Yes. If you put a few drops on someone's eyelids while he's asleep, he'll fall in love with the first person he sees when he wakes up.
Yes, but I learned a lot.
I really need to lose some weight. I should go on a diet.
Sure, just a second. All right, what time?
I'm glad to know that everyone made it out okay.
Okay. You ’ re hired.
Travelling, swimming, going to the cinema. And you?
I'd rather be cold than hot.
Why aren't you at work?
That's all right. We don't go to bed early.
You mean you want to stay at home?
That's only a joke. To be honest, I have to improve my English, because my English is not good enough. I still get confused about some simple grammars. Since you are quite good at it, do you have any suggestions?
So you're a big fan, eh?
yes. Actually, both accounts come with cards that you can use in ATM machines, so that you won't have to come in to the bank to make a transaction.
I know what you mean. I've started eating better myself.
OK, OK, fine! Just open the gate!
Yeah, so what do you think about the teachers?
Thanks for sharing your experience with me.
Eh, so so.
Can I mail it in late?
I guess we could go visit once in a while too.
Your signature here, please, and we're finished.
I'm going to do that.
Yes. Will you take me to the station?
Don't render me lip-service, you'd better stay at home tonight.
Do you know why?
Of course, Ms. Walker. Could I have your account number, please? And, when do these documents need to arrive?
One last question.Is there a dress code there?
I don't know where to go to get one.
What kind of considerations are we talking about?
They offer clearer and sharper images. Many of them also have up to 20x optical zoom lenses, a photo mode and fast-action mode.
Really? Tell me more.
Have you been feeling any joint aches with that rash?
Indiscretion? How can an indiscretion last two months? I mean, you two have been married for two years! How can he do that to you?
Thank you. Oh, it tastes nice.
I know, I know. But someone took offence.
How about this afternoon at 2:00?
No, thank you. Taxis and I get along just fine.
Yes, I've got it.
Oh, I'm afraid I'll be busy tomorrow evening.
That sounds like fun. Have a good time.
Absolutely. Several men have tried it in my A shop. Do you want to try?
But it is unjust to judge a book by its cover. If they ’ re not happy or comfortable with their clothes, they can be less productive.
You ’ re a part of history.
Ah! I get your point. We have just what you need. Our Jinyuan apartments have several floor plans. The one bedroom apartments are very economical, but their layout makes great use of a small amount of space. I think you can find the right apartment there.
The view from the hill is so beautiful and relaxing. There ’ s so sign of pollution. The village looks so peaceful.
Do you really think the Dalai Lama sent that? I'm tired of all these forwards.
Have you packed our passports?
Well. Go to the police station and see if It’s there.
Now, your receipt, and the change.
Yes. The air-conditioner in this room doesn't work.
You know, I saw that and it looks pretty good!
Yes, but I'll bet she won't again.
I ’ d like to be fitted for a suit please.
That's too bad. How much is a new one?
It's a beautiful drive.
More bad news?
It's the circus.
My daughter ’ s just banged up her knee pretty badly and I ’ m going to have to take her to the hospital. I ’ ll be about two hours late.
I'd like to buy a fridge. What about the quality of higher products?
Quite right. If you don't confirm, the reservation will be cancelled 72 hours before the departure time. In order not to miss your flight, I think you should pick up your ticket as early as possible.
He's very handsome, isn't he? What's he like?
It is good to have goals in life. If California doesn't work out, come and visit me in Korea, OK?
I only had 1 question about him. But you might get more. I dont know if he will have the same exam or not.
yeah, I crave my own space. i just so tired of having people around me all time.
You mean we can't stay in this hotel tonight?
I really wanted you to come, but I understand.
What are you watching?
Would you like something to drink?
Good morning. Could I speak to Frans Smith please?
It's often windy in March. It's always warm in April and May, but it rains sometimes.
Is that the method you use here?
Hello, Betty, how are you?
Is there anything you don't do in-house?
Well, let me find you one of these classes on a different day.
Mary seems depressed. What ’ s the matter?
High blood pressure is called the silent killer because it hardly ever has symptoms.
We can get off the bus right behind Macy's.
I thought we were supposed to meet HERE.
Fine, thanks.And you?
Just so-so.You ' re doing all right?
That's not the way to solve the problem. Did you look in the classified advertisements column?
You yourself have a photo studio?
Well. Arden just mentioned the paper and the on-sales. And I can talk about TV with him later, because TV promotion gets more and more popular among consumers.
Sure, when those never ending meetings.
Sure, where is your office?
Good afternoon Sir, may I please see your passport and reservation?
No, you needn't do that. You'd better get a part-time job somewhere and go to evening classes.
Jacob Hammer. He is originally from Holland.
our company is going to do some cutbacks soon.
There's a big problem with my room. I'm in 507.
I'm sure there'll be canned! And there also might be some legal consequences.
Your company is very well respected. About how long have you been in business?
Hurry up, Benjamin! Pass the ball to me. I'm good at shooting.
I want to climb Tasha Mountain this summer vacation. Would you be my guide?
I prefer seafood.
Just a couple of days ago.
In an hour.
No. That's not why I raised my hand. I need to go to the ladies ' room.
What a shame. Why didn't you take a sleeping pill?
How much do I need to pay?
And this kind of weather is rare for the season either.
scientists have never disappointed me.
Did your house ever get damaged from the winds?
I ’ Ve done that. The doctor advised me to cut out smoking and drinking.
Well, you really do have a talent for this, Alice. Thanks for the suggestions.
What a pity! I know you've been longing for it these months.
I see your problem.
Honey, it's not so serious. It's just an animal.
Please type it in a formal style.
Yesterday I had a quarrel with my roommate. I'm really fed up with all this.
No, once I fill the tub with beer, I ’ ll get the ice. The beer will be cool if you put the tub under the ice. The cooler, the better.
I passed college English Test Band - 4, with good skill in listening, speaking, reading and writing. I haven't got any certificate of computer skills, because I don ’ t think certificates are necessary if what's needed is merely operating a computer. I think, to know how to use a computer is more important. And I'm quite familiar with Microsoft Office
Is Water Shrinking Festival official?
Hey... as long as I ’ m not alone on a Saturday night, I don ’ t really care what I do!
What do you want to go to US for?
Are you going to the party on Saturday?
Let me have a look.Well, it contains basically all we have agreed upon.
Well, first I need to buy some things, such as fertilizer, seeds and tools.
Not at all. I still have enough for the next few days.
I am single, I have no real of, only an E-gf, that is you.
When I am angry and want to beat someone, you stand there and let me do what I want. Would you?
I'm looking forward to our son's graduation this weekend.
Oh, look at the thermometer! The temperature has hit 98.
Then take the next left then the next right.Are you with me?
I'm trying to get my license.
Jack borrowed a large sum of money from me and didn ’ t pay me back.
Yes, I would like to look at some of your products.
We work in teams. There are about four to six people in each team. I'm training to be a team leader. Each team member is responsible for the quality of the goods we produce. We are multi-skilled so we can rotate jobs. I like that. It stops the work getting boring.
Go ahead, please.
Not good for business? I don't see eye to eye with you.The new policy offers new opportunities.
Yeah, I just got them. I started playing ice hockey in a community league. So, I finally got myself new skates.
Hummum... I think I'll have to talk to the doctor again about that.Anyway... now that I'm going to have to make some claims, I think I'd better try and understand how the system works. Would you mind breaking it down for me?
I thought that we could leave around 8
That ’ s okay. I ’ m sorry, too. It’s a good idea to prepare for the future possibilities.
When will you be able to come here?
Just let it go.
$ 3.60 will be the right amount for the tip.
I know the color you mean. Is this it, sir?
Maybe he's gifted in that.
Mark? What were you up to yesterday? I called you, but there wasn ’ t anybody home.
I blew the finally exam.
I ’ m never coming back.
What ’ s your long term goal?
My mother is ill in the hospital.
Yes.Then cross the road at the next traffic lights.The Peak Tram is straight ahead.You can't miss it.
Yes, it's not too bad. Our sales are going up year after year. And we still have a large potential production capacity.
Come on, fellows. Let's enjoy my wife's cooking!
So you are not sure how long it will take to get there?
Who broke my chair?
Those young actors play the roles perfectly.
How about a game of tennis?
Before I work in the office, I was a teacher. So if possible, I'd like to come back to some school to pass on my new knowledge to more people.
Could you make up this prescription for me, please?
That's too much of hassle. We just want a little bigger parking space.
OK, what does that entail?
not at all. The woman, who owned it, took good care of it. But when she died, she had no family left and no will, so the government had to sell it for her.
What's your proposal?
Hi. My name is Jessica.
Don ’ t worry about it, just drive. Oh, no, the light is about to change... step on it!
I do apologize for that.
Mary, today is a great day for you.
Yes, I did. My family and I went to Tahoe to ski and the weather was great. How about you?
Every thing for winter is 20 % off.
May I have your name and flight number, please?
Here you are. Ms. Stevens is ready for you now. I ’ ll show you to her office, right this way.
Sir, your bags are 30 pounds over weight.You are allowed only 45 pounds of baggage.
Would you consider quoting us for the order with neutral cans on a C. I. F. basis for delivery in Hong Kong? Our associated company there will have the labels printed to comply with the FDA regulations.
I wouldn't recommend it. I think we should wait until she comes round.
Is there a mailbox in the apartment?
Isn't there anything that sounds fishy?
Mary said Jack was cheating on her. Jack was seeing a girl from his hometown. One day, Mary saw them holding hands and ended the relationship immediately.
Anyway, I will have a look at the piano class after work by myself.
The nearest one is about ten minutes ' walk from here.
Let's take another look at it for those of you who don't understand.
why? What happened?
Is there anyone else you can talk to about it at your company?
Thank you, Mr. William. Goodbye.
Thankful, no. I guess everyone understands the opportunity I had to step into a leadership role is so great for my career. I'm really moving up the ladder now that I'm considered a supervisor. After a couple weeks, it was like nothing happened.
Are all of your team members on schedule?
No, I learned by myself. I have a good cook book that I read when I have time.
It's hard to say. It depends. But I love the waltz.
No, I'm not. What are you planning to do?
Oh, I didn't watch the football match. I wanted to but my wife preferred to see the old film.
I can give you one for $ 30 a day or $ 200 a week.
Really? I'm in a hurry. All right.
By the way, to tell them try to persuade those new guests to cooperate with us. Because I found a biggest opponent from this post-trip.
A hike would be great! Let me pack us a nice picnic lunch, OK?
She taught us that you can do anything that you want to do.
It should take us all the way up to Altadena.
Okay. Full-size, mid-size or compact, ma'am?
Hi, Mr. James, what ’ s the rush?
How nice of him!
Leave me alone!
How do you feel about an annual salary of 100,000 Yuan plus bonus.
I feel as if I'm living in a different world, honey.
She loves to nit-pick and criticizes everything that I do. I can never do anything right when she's around.
It doesn ’ t matter, as we do not have any children.
Well, it sounds like you really enjoyed yourself.
Yeah, falling in love is so good.
Yeah, that's great. I'll see you tomorrow night.
I don't think I have any problem with our Chinese partners. They have always followed the contract strictly. We can do business directly with the corporation. As I mentioned before, the Chinese government is trying very hard to perfect its law. Its commercial legislation provides legal protection for foreign companies.
I see them! Wow! How do you know they're wild?
Oh, When does it close?
A moment, please. I'll check our room availability for these days... Yes, that's all right.What ' s your name please?
Yes, tomorrow is my friend's birthday.Could I arrange a birthday party for him through you?
That's fine. See you then.
His wife always complained that Kevin's salary was too low and got no promotion.
Well, I'll be glad to help you out. We can deliver what you need to your office.
OK, I'll find the time to relax soon.
I'm not very familiar with Chinese cuisine. What can you recommend?
Done. Oh, don't forget to take napkins disposable plates, cups and picnic blanket.
Wait a minute, please---Mr. Wong, I'm terribly sorry. Our delivery truck had an accident today. I'm afraid your sofa won't be delivered until tomorrow.
I'm going downstairs for more drinking water. I will ask them.
How long ago was that?
These are beautiful! Is this the marvelous landscape in Guiling?
Will you have it strong or weak?
I ’ m at work right now. You can reach me at 905 675 9870. Please call this number if you need me.
Via Kiang. I'd like to leave on May 5th.
Yes. The baked fish was out of this world.
I'd like to book a single room with a bath from the afternoon of October 2nd to the morning of October 6th.
No, I live alone in a flat near my work place.
Oh, come on, Gordon, it's the afternoon now. Why were you late really?
Don't you think it's too bloody?
I thought about going to my sister's. How about you?
Ok, so where do you think we can save more money?
It has fresh air, and it is nicer than a big town.
Yeah. I tried to get in last semester, but it was full by the time I registered.
What lovely weather!
Let me go and get that for you.
Alright. Maybe it's the only way to do it.
Yes, they seem to be my size and go with my shirt quite well. I will take it.
We hope that there will be no repetition of this kind of trouble in the future.
Usually, the restaurant will be quieter at that time.
And where are we going to go?
I ’ m afraid I ’ ll be late.
Whoa whoa whoa! Are you nuts? How much is all this going to cost? I ’ m looking at the price at each one of these little things and It’s outrageous! This is basically a crayon!
This was your first time voting, wasn ’ t it?
sure. All of our mixed drinks are excellent. You can also try a delicious non-alcoholic cocktail.
Excuse me, I've been waiting here for 10 minutes. Do you know how often does No. 636 run?
It's interesting, I like being an editor.
School, you mean? Yes, he does. He likes his teachers, and that always makes difference.
God knows. Speaking of chores, I would rather do some washing than cooking.
Fill it up, please.
Can I get you anything to drink?
Yes, please. Thank you very much.
Do you like to dance?
Well, first of all, It’s much bigger. It has the same number of rooms, but each room is larger. We also have a larger garden, which our dog loves, of course!
Excuse me, my skin is always dry, can you give me some advice?
Yes, fine. Let me see how much money I have in my wallet.
Excuse me. Have you forgotten our drinks?
Let's see, sir. According to your file, you watched ' Titanic ' Monday evening.
Yeah. I go shopping once a week
I am consistently impressed by this book.
Oh, yeah! I had a blast! I love sweating like a pig with a bunch of pot bellies who all smell bad. Sorry, I ’ m just not into this health kick.
What are you shopping for?
I couldn ’ t agree more.
Thank you, Miss Kelly.
I'm sorry, but you were the only one who had access to it.
Yeah, that is very important.
Terrific. There is one girl said, It is the best game I've ever watched.
What movie did you want to see?
Oh, that's too expensive.Aren ' t there any cheaper ones?
In that case, you can park either in a student lot or on the street. Are you aware of the marked handicapped spots?
This is it?
Since you had that done here, we'll take care of it. There won't be a charge. And, your insurance should cover the work on the cavity. Now, I'm going to have the hygienist do your cleaning and I'll see you soon for the other work.
Our team just scored a goal.
Tom, this deal promises big returns for both sides. Let's hope it's the beginning of a long and prosperous relationship.
Yes, just over there to your right.
Would you please ask him to call Chris when he gets back?
Not bad at all, thanks. There were one or two interesting people there.Why couldn't you come?
When exactly do you plan on cleaning it?
Was I? Sorry, I didn'y mean to be. I do apologize.
The next bus will be here in four minutes.
Yes. He's one of my best friends. Our friendship formed at college. Why did you ask that?
I want to buy one to match my shirt.Can you give me some advice?
Great! I'll arrange a viewing after work tomorrow afternoon. Could you tell me the detailed address?
Why do you come back again?
Oh yeah? Tell me then, smarty pants, how will you go about setting up your garden?
If I were you, I ’ d buy that now while It’s on sale. If you spend $ 100, you get a $ 50 voucher for more clothes.
how do you know so much about food and dieting?
Look at my nice blue shirt, there ’ s a big hole in it.
I'm sorry, our appointment has to be changed.
Hey, you can dance to rap music!
I feel they all talk and behave in a different way.
I've never been better, thanks.
Yes, everything has been well designed.
I ’ m sorry to hear that. Cancelling the appointment is no problem. Thank you for your call.
How long would you work here if you were admitted?
Thanks. Are you satisfied with your stay here with us, sir?
Five keys and a small foot ornament.
Yes, I was just wondering when you'd have time to go fishing.
No, it isn't mine. I blundered upon it under the sofa. Do youknow whose watch it is?
I guess that ’ s what I get for not flossing or brushing my teeth three times a day.
That's the point. Love among human beings is not limited by geography.
Personally, I think it ’ d be better to go when you have more time. A few days isn ’ t really enough to get acclimatize yourself and to go on a few excursions outside of the capital.
Tom's dating your sister.
I've been really stressed. It's the end of the year and I've got so much stuff to do! I feel like I'm drowning in work.
Judy, your husband has a really nice car.
I'm really going to miss you.Take care of yourself.
Pick-up lines don ' t work!
Sounds a little weak.
I received a lot of emails from potential clients that I had to answer. Each time, I had to check files to see what we had agreed at earlier meetings. Each client has different conditions and requirements.
What's the weight limit?
Do you think that this will move along fairly quickly?
Oh, yes, it is. Thank you. I was looking for it just now.
Excuse me, I'm looking for the Holiday Inn. Do you know where it is?
Yes, madam. I know that I'll be expected, first of all, to work hard if I'm hired.
What? Your golden watch is lost?
No, I ’ m sorry. I'm going to meet some friends tomorrow evening. And I'm in a hurry now.
It's about 12 hours.
I didn't see the crash itself, but I did see the smoke and everything afterwards from my parents ' apartment building.
Hi, good morning, you are so early today.
well, my suggestion for a newbie like you is that don't get lost in the cyberspace. You know internet won't do the filtration for you, so you still need to use your judgement. There are a lot of per
How can believe it if the same excuse was used twice within a week?
There is an area at the EDD Center that is set up with computers for you to make use of.
Excuse me for taking your time.
Is it far from here to there?
Anyway, I don ’ t want to post my face up for sale on the internet like that.
Oh, I need a small one, otherwise my luggage will be overweight.
Sure. Can we use it in Today Supermarket?
Gee. I could have slept another hour.
Can I try it on?
OK. Dinner and a movie will be perfect.
What a wonderful dinner!
I will take the Aspirin then. And have you a small first-aid kit?
Do you want to tell her?
Turtles? Whatever... Look, all that ’ s required for the creation of matter an imbalance of particles and anti-particles. At least, that ’ s what the math says.
Yes. The beer is brewed by using carefully selected malts, rice, hops and natural water from the Lao Mountain.
Yes, but I threw them back.
You can also get a bonus at the end of the year, and if you can keep working in the company, your salary will get a raise every year.
"Well, since we're collecting gifts instead of red envelopes, I made a "" for guests only "" gift chat room."
Can we stop here for a while? My backpack is very heavy.
Happy birthday, John. Many happy returns of the day!
In that case, please get your passport and boarding card ready. Just wait in the terminal for twenty more minutes.You will hear the announcement.
Yes. I miss you very much.
Certainly. Let me see.Oh, it's on that shelf.
By the way, what's the time?
Kobi Bryant and Shaquille O ’ Neal, they are the Los Angeles Lakers ’ star players.
That sounds just right to me. What was wrong with it?
Alright. I will have an assistant wet your hair. Then I can cut it.Please step over there.How would you like your hair cut today?
Sure. You can have a Telegraphic or a SWIFT transfer.
Yes, please. When can you get it done?
How is that a small fee?
See? I told you. It's very hard.
Were you engaged in any activities at college?
I want to have a trip to Sydney.
NYU was my first choice, but UCLA is just fine.
morning. Phyllis Seymour speaking.
That's a good point. Let me change my question. What sports do women like best?
That's fine. Now tell me about the other alternatives.
Maybe her uncle will.
Yes, but do you think there is eternal love in the world?
We still have six left.
No, you can walk from here.
Do you like that vintage clock? It's almost fifty years old.
do you remember, years ago, when everybody at the New Year's party had yo-yos?
I didn't want to go out last weekend, so I decided to stay at home and watch a movie.
Alright, maybe it's a little bit cheesy. But come on, isn't it fun to go to a cheap flick once in a while?
I look at it this way, suppliers should be able to reduce their CIF price, even lower than their home price.
And how long are you depositing for?
Over there in the booth.
Yes, sir.Go ahead.Here you are.
Yt looks good on the outside, but the inside is a different story. It needs a lot of servicing before it can go out on the roads again.
$ 10 per hour.
Sure. I've reviewed all the lessons I have learned this academic year.
Excuse me, can you tell me the name of the book you read?
You know I don't know anything about fashion.
What happened to this one?
Normally I couldn ’ t do that. But under the circumstances, I ’ ll see what I can arrange.Customer satisfaction is our primary aim.
Drama. I was an actor for five years after college.
How about the interest? I'm not really happy with the interest I'm receiving through my Current Account.
Yes. Do you know its name.
This is a very beautiful statue. What's it called?
I noticed they've taken our radio and left the television.
That'll be a bottle of champagne, lobster tail, and porterhouse, all charged to your amenities account.
Today is so hot, besides I had so much housework to do. My friend came for a visit and stayed for two hours. I didn ’ t forget, but I had no time at all.
Let's take the bus.
Well, I've been looking forward to seeing you.
Certainly without ice. Ice will spoil the taste.
It's about a girl. No, an angel! I'm going to the coffee shop where she works right now.
Okay, okay, how about one hundred dollars?
Whenever you have time.
Elvin stopped by to see me.
Sorry, not before 10:30.
May I know your name, please?
What's the problem with your internet?
If we start now, we can make it by taxi.
Sounds fine to me. Whatever, let's enjoy this pond first.
I think I'll have the lobster. What are you going to have?
Fill it up with regular, please.
Is that a crowded bus?
Why do I have to hire you?
I ’ m not interested in it. Are you keen on it?
Hello, welcome to Lincoln Bank. What can we do for you today?
Come on baby, let's dance!
Hello, this is Lucy. May I speak to Mr. Smith?
Yeah, but I can speak English, too.
He is more nice than wise.
OK, so now the last point on our agenda. Jill, let's go over the profit and loss statement.
Oh, about 10 miles. It takes me about an hour.
Well, I would need an idea of how large your order would be. About how many units would you need?
yeah, I'll call her later to patch things up.
Yes, you can use your cell phone during the boarding process until the aircraft door is closed.
Definitely! Thank you!
We'd better prepare for the worst.
Can I hold it for a moment?
Would you want to buy an old cottage or build a new one yourself?
That's pretty much what I heard.
OK, so are you ready to learn how to bake a cake?
Dishonesty. It’s unacceptable.
Well, you already watch too much TV instead of doing your homework, anyway.
Where are the chairs?
I have times available for Tuesday or Wednesday. Which one would work best for you?
I'd like to see that myself.
Thank you, Mr.Berman. and you prefer smoking or non-smoking?
Did you win?
How tall is this building?
The streets are heavy with traffic at this time of a day, are they?
It's not a simple thing to be beautiful.
Yes, sir. I will use the scissors.Do you always part your hair on the left?
No, but I was in quite a few tornados when I was younger.
That's right, maybe then you'll respect my rules.
Hey, do you know any mystery belief serve the festival?
That would be a possibility. Where is this fundraiser taking place?
It's very hot, the temperature is often over 40C.
Unbutton your shirt, please.
I wish I could stay a little longer, but a lot of things to do back home.
Job fairs are popular places to look for work.
Let me see. I am sorry. ZW203 is the only one to New York.
I had no idea you were such an environmentalist before!
They really smell fragrant. How much is a real sandalwood fan?
Make sure you contact me as I only allow one unexcused absence.
This is a very spacious apartment. It's forty pings, including the parking space. That's about one thousand four hundred square feet.
Well, uh... I ’ m still pretty busy, but... all right. Come in. What can I do for you?
The service this evening has kind of sucked. Is that our server over there?
Don't mention it. Oh, This is a small gift for you.
So soon? Why don't you stay a little longer?
But I... I don't agree with that, because computers weaken kids ' ability to think, because kids don't learn basic skills.
Excuse me, I want to know the price of your CPU.
Oh, yes. May I sit on the grass?
Make a left on this next street.
I ’ m going to prescribe some antibiotics, and some cream to ease the itching and burning.
200 bucks for a piece of junk like that? That's a ripped-off.
Oh, stop it! You know you need vegetables. You will end up fat if you don't watch your diet, now.
No, that's OK. I've got all of your information here on the screen in front of me. The money will be ready and waiting for you tomorrow.
You can buy the bubble wrap here, but you ’ ll have to stand in line over here to post your package.
You're back already. That sure was quick.
Oh, dear. That ’ s terrible. Not at all what I expected.
It's OK.
Look at the candy bar over there. It is so colorful and tasty.
That was part of my plan.
Yes. yes, I am sure.
There ’ s no rush. You can see him tomorrow. I ’ Ve told him about you. He promised to give you the job.
But your were playing video games all afternoon. You are skating on thin ice.
I haven't heard anything about it.
At 7 am sharp.
I would like to book a one way trip ticket.
That's all right. Enjoy your flight.
Yes.Are you interested in the job?
You needn ’ t buy one. You can have mine.
Hello, I'd like to see Mr. Charles, the manager, please.
What day will you need it for?
You're a hundred percent sure you want to eat here?
I love you, Troy.
Sure, a promise is a promise.
Thanks, Miss. I want you to see our new stock of brocade satin, a splendid line, just came in.
Oh, yes. The nurse were very kind, though they were strict about what I could drink. In the end, I just drank water and nothing else. Everyone was very professional and I actually enjoyed some aspects of my stay.
I hope so too. I'll give him a call when we get there.
I don't think so. Is that table all right?
That sounds just perfect. I'll talk things over with some colleagues and get back to you. Thank you very much for the information.
OK. Here's your ticket, boarding pass, passport and baggage claim tag. You'll be boarding at Gate 8. The boarding time is 9 a. m.
So that will be one teddy, two terry cloth robes, three pairs of satin slippers, and two pairs of pajamas.
They wanted to go out, and so they made me look after my baby brother.
Oh, yes. I really like it here.
I'm sure he'll love the idea. Just throw yourself into it and you'll enjoy it!
What was your speed then?
To tell you the truth, it's the most tedious course i have ever had.
It looks too big for you, but I like the color and the material is good quality. Is it on sale?
Just press ENTER and you've done.
Yes, I usually guided foreign tourists around Beijing when I was in University.
I'm sorry about that, sir. I'll get you another one.
I'm thinking of dropping out.
What are the things that are forbidden to take in departure?
I'm afraid it's empty.
I had no idea you were such as environmentalist before!
No, that's the cost, and that's what it's going to cost us. We can't go in the hole with this. I am giving you my best price, so take it, or leave it.
here's Lisa. May I take a picture with her?
If you could just give us a few more days, we should be able to get this straightened out.
I feel eggplants are more nutritious.
It’s about Bob Dylan.
A description of each test is given on the site.
How about this? They're the same shape.
These goods can be broken very easily, so we would be thankful if you would be sure to use durable packing materials.
It's not his villa, but his father's. I think it's somewhere in Florida. I am not sure myself.
Really? What could that be?
Describe her to me.
The problem is that I have no idea. I didn't pay attention.
Will you get a pay-raise, too?
No, this is just my appetizer... this is my lunch!
How much is that?
Ok, thank you. By the way, could you please tell me how I can get there from A community?
Well, this connection might be a bit too slow for your needs. I suggest you get the premium package for fifty dollars a month which includes a connection speed of two megabytes. That way you can play games online without any lag. This package also includes a wireless router and a personal firewall absolutely free!
Shall we buy?
Good. Let's iron out the remaining details. When do you want to take delivery?
We can raise money in the community. You know each family 10 yuan maybe.
Yes, sir. That ’ s more than enough time. I do appreciate your understanding. Why don ’ t we say 10:00 o ’ clock on the 27th?
Which one do you like best?
The holiday is coming so we need to finish our task.
His family will be pleased to hear that. They must have been so worried.
Where shall we go now? A Chinese restaurant or a local one?
I ’ m so surprised to meet you in this remote village. Long time no see.
I'll just use the ATM.
I'm hungry. Let's go to the snack bar.
Yes, I've always dream of having a big wedding.
Honey, I've got good news for you.
thanks. I appreciate that.
How much will it amount to?
What are you hiding in your coat pocket?
Sure that ’ s fine.This is so awkward... what ones do I pick? What size is she?
Yes. I have some many clothes stuffed into it. Perhaps I should get rid of some of them. There are clothes in there that I never wear anymore.
We appreciate your business, Madam.
Do you have enough money to buy that dress?
No, don't use them, please.
Yes, she gets along with them quite well.
Yes, but what ’ s the banging noise?
In that case, I'll give you a certificate, so you can get it reimbursed.
You look pale recently.
Ok. Look! It’s just near your foot.
Sure, you can.
Yeah, if I buy a cell phone like this, I don't have to take a music player everywhere I go, and I can save the cost of buying an extra mp4.
Your performance so far is not quite in line with what we expect for our executives. I hope I ’ Ve made my point.
Did she tell you whether you would get the job?
What is the highest goal of your company?
Thank you. I begin to like English even when I was a child.
OK! I'll tell him.
Is there any chance to further study?
That will be great! Do you have LPs or Cds?
Ok, no problem. We do it ourselves.
Good. Shall we say seven o'clock?
That'll be nonsmoking. Now, do you approve of a single queen-size bed?
All right, It's a date.
Yes. Don ’ t you?
What kind of films do you like best?
Basically. But I have no idea what to get! She's American and kind of...
Oh, yes. It’s and excellent hotel. A friend of mine had her wedding reception there and said it was perfect, though very expensive.
That'll be $ 200, sir.
Good morning, sir. Have a seat please.
I'm sorry. I know there are still seven machines. But I'm exhausted.
Did you go to the concert last weekend?
Yes, I liked it, too. Did you like the acting?
That's okay. I can tell you about some alternatives we have.
Well, it's a short distance flight, so we don't serve meals. But there are some drinks.
I would like to sit near the window.
At 16:35, from platform 8.
The choice of destination is very important. It will too energetic for the old people if you make an excursion or go to climb mountains. But they'll be interested in going to the historical places of interest where they can have fun.
scientists are so woke.
I can't seem to find the cereal aisle.
Well, this wouldn't be the first time that a file was wrong. Just a moment, please.
No wonder you always look so active.
But I heard the box office rose up to 15 million in the first week.
Sandra is actually a blue chipper. I don't think she could realize that she has married a fool for women.
I want to think of it for some time.
I couldn ’ t remember.
Yes, she really went out of her way to make this a pleasant dining experience.
Bob is really disturbed these days.
It's 500 dollars.
this way, you'll earn more at the new work place.
Good. Have you got any other questions?
I think is looks great. I really like the light colors you have chosen. The pictures are nice too. Did you buy any new furniture?
I guess you miss your wife and children very much.
How does $ 900 every month sound to you?
You're right. But wouldn't it be safer to use wooden cases?
When will you be free?
I haven't told them. Maybe I'll make them know after the vacation.
That's for sure. Fruit, cream cakes, medical tonics are often for parents and aged relatives, and cash enclosed in a red envelope for the kids. All this, of course, should be well prepared beforehand.
Seems like it.
He not only sent me nasty e-mail, but he's so bored, he even asked me to search the Net for even more forwards for him!
That's really cheap. What are the fees included?
My favorite winter sport is skiing. In addition, I am keen on basketball.
We have lots of fresh red roses.
150 yuan for each piece.
Congratulations! It’s good to follow your heart. But I just didn ’ t expect to be so fast.
Hot in here, isn't it?
I guess that you will really be dressing down.
Quite a lot. The celebration of the New Year has just started. The first day we southerners have sweet rice cakes for breakfast, and people in the North have Jiaozi. Afterward, we will make New Year calls on family relatives, husband's side on the first day and wife's side on the second.
Hello, how can I help?
That would be very good of you, Mr. White.
Why not use staircases? The terror was not so violent at that time.
Will there be any late charge?
Yes, I've brought a list of your recent products with me. We'd like to import some of your latest clothes for the second half of this year. We're ready to place an order with you.
I ’ d appreciate that, sir. How long do you think you ’ ll need me to stay?
My aunt told me one of her secrets--cellophane tape.
They give applicants a topic.The topic is, The Place of Ethnic Minorities in a Democratic Society.My essay must be three pages typed and double-spaced.
Hello, is that Mason's builders?
Smoking is killing. I know.
He appeals to the fans thanks to two things
Have you got a sore throat, too?
Welcome to Lincoln Bank. What can we do for you today?
So soon. It seems as if you just got here.
I see. Has she read any detective stories?
Some new clothes. How about you?
There shouldn't be any long lines, sir.
Me? Oh, no. In fact, I took up dancing quite recently.
Sorry, I'm engaged for the foxtrot.Will the next Walls be all right?
how's your assistant manager getting on?
So you have to apply to begin the first semester next year.
No. Go to bed right now.
You may take it from me that the last thing we want to do is to disappoint an old customer like you. But the fact remains that our manufacturers have a heavy backlog on their hands.
Sure. You should include your name, address and phone number in your resume.
I was trying to find the class on preparing for interviews.
You don't want your insurance company to pay for it?
Oh, let me see. It fits the second standard rates. Have a look at the contract, please.
Good afternoon, is there a vacant room here?
Yes, when your friend gets it, he'll sign a receipt, which will be sent to you by mail. Then you can be sure it's been received.
Perhaps you have caught that bug that is going around.
Are there many promotion chances in the company?
Understand. Do I need to take out my laptop from my suitcase?
Hi. What ’ s up?
Oh, good. That's nice to hear. Well, I am going to a football match. I need to go.
In a way, It’s similar to your experience of learning Chinese. Some Spanish words are very similar to English ones. But I need to practise listening to native speakers and saying the words myself.
Would you care for some lemon for your tea?
I don ’ t think you do.If you did, I ’ d have a car.See, you know how to take the reservation, you just don ’ t know how to hold the reservation and that ’ s really the most important part of the reservation, the holding. Anybody can just take them.
That's a wonderful choice.
I have a sweet tooth. I want candy.
Em, it's delicious!
I was hoping I could find something made in the ' 20s.
You get off at the next stop, cross the street, and you'll find the stop not far on the right hand side.
Let me check, sir. You were charged for watching ' Titanic ' Monday night.
That's it! That's the one I was thinking of! I told you I'd remember it!
A cheeseburger and an order of french fries would be great.
Then let's go in.
Ok, thank you for your time and patience.
What is your weakness?
All right, we are here at the eighth hole. It’s a par four, and has some very difficult hazards which many golfers find difficult to avoid. Although, I did see Jack Nicklaus hit a hole in one on this very same hole!
It happens a lot when I work out.
Well, I think there's one across from the shopping center.
Getting worse. Now he ’ s eating me out of house and home. I ’ Ve tried talking to him but it all goes in one ear and out the other. He makes himself at home, which is fine. But what really gets me is that yesterday he walked into the living room in the raw and I had company over! That was the last straw.
It’s going to be $ 300.
Thanks, Mom.Can I have dessert now? I love chocolate cake.
Where is John? I can't find him anywhere.
And I couldn't find another phone.
After all, he is a baby.
Hello! I'd like to get busy on my computer, but I need some broadband.
Yes. It looks terrific!
That's a pity. How about Thursday?
Then you might want to add a CD-ROM drive too, because most new software programs are coming out on Cds.
And how much for haircut with shampoo?
Hello. I want to buy some RIB, is it OK to use US dollars?
How long do I have to wait?
Stay for dinner with us.
Here comes Jordan, though.
do you think that's a good idea?
Excuse me. Can I deposit valuables here?
I bought it in a store near my school.
That's neat!
If you ever need a job, let me know. I can always train you.
That ’ s fine. I appreciate your help.
Yes, I'd like some coffee.
I'm interested in applying for a credit card with you.
Does she make any sense to you?
True, and I like the kitchen.It ' s new and well equipped.
That's why it looks so nice. I should have figured. You always get what you pay for.
I'm sorry, sir, but may I see your driver's licence and insurance policy, please? I have to give you a ticket.
I like spring because flowers bloom and trees grow leaves again. In spring, the weather is very changeable-sometimes cold, sometimes warm. It’s usually windy with some rain. Autumn is usually sunny and dry, but It’s gradually gets colder as winter arrives. What are the seasons like in you city?
Can I ask you what the office rules are?
She has light brown eyes, absolutely beautiful.
Smoking if possible.
You ’ re right. Everything is probably going to come to a head tonight. I ’ ll keep you informed.
Oh, no, I'm afraid I don't. Is that necessary?
Mom, I want to get a motorcycle. Is that all right with you?
It depends on how much you order
Yes, I have learned a little French and Japanese as well.
Thank you, but I'd prefer to buy a China-made set.
Am I supposed to pee into the cup?
Yes, let's go.
We never fail to meet our client's expectation.
Are you from America?
I've made a tough decision, sir. Here's my resignation.
Don't get all worked up over him. He's probably harmless.
Well, I have to hide in the air-conditioned rooms. Anyway, it is all worth, just think about the cool evening time.
You are risking your neck. Don ’ t you know they have guns.
But we can't destroy our forests to get the wood.
What time are you going?
Thank you for saying that. But what's the unit price?
Are you working fewer hours than you used to work?
You will have a six-month internship after you enter our company. During this period you can get 2,500 yuan a month, and after that you can get 3,500 yuan per month.
Oh yes. Like this, for example. Have you ever eaten jellyfish before?
OK, so here's the plan ; When we land, run to gate 14!
Thank you for your concern.
They're always asking me to come home, but I think our relationship is better if we keep a distance from each other. Whenever we see each other, all we do is fight.
Do you want me to go talk to her?
Well, I know that in most Asian countries Apple is not very popular.But here in America, especially in universities and publishing companies, Apple is very commonly used.
Here you are, sir. What do I do next?
Ordinary one, please.
Yeah? Which one was that?
Because you have to hear it really loud to get the full concert effect.
Yes. That ’ s fine. We can book you a private room for up to ten people at that time. Could you give me your name please?
well, you can always block them. When I don't feel like talking to certain people online, that's what I do.
Don't tell me you have a record player!
How about recommending him to use the storage room down the hall?
Yes, I want to go out. Would you like to come?
She is beautiful.
Sounds not so easy to me. When that happens, I will be too old to learn.
Mr Moon, how good to see you again.
A reading knowledge of a language is larger and different from a writing knowledge. Don ’ t you think so?
What is it about?
Put me down for 2 years. Here's the money I'd like to pay in...
Quick! Pass me your binoculars. Look at that bird... I've never seen one of those before. It's indigenous to Guiling, and an endangered species too. This is lucky!
Would you like some soup first?
Are you okay?
I have some photos here taken by myself. Would you like to see them?
I can't see a problem. Let's give it a try.
It's good to have you in the group. We can always use a good baritone!
It's a success all right. The kids keep trying to catch me.
Well, bring him along too. We ’ ll have a great time this weekend.
It's brown.
Yes, but there's a rush on at the moment, and my boss asked me to do some urgent letters.
Name, age and date of birth, please.
Welcome to Flash Foot. What can I do for you, ma'am?
No, sir. It's gratis. Just take your room key so you can get in.
Take a guess.
I needed to be fast.
It was no problem at all.
Aren't you the pot calling the kettle black? You're wearing my pants right now!
Don't be rush. It is suggested to write a letter for the Personnel Department of Future Clothes Company.
no, it's definitely my turn to treat you... you paid last time!
You're right. All the entertainment web sites follow Stars.com.
that's true, but you already have two back coats and one black sweater.
Was there an accident on the freeway today?
Well, actually in most cases we don't talk about special deals, but since this one is so new I will listen to what you have to say.
May I have the bill, please?
Is there some reason why you can ’ t get enough sleep?
Don't take your personal belongings. We need to get out of the building now!
To be honest, I ’ d rather watch television! Where did you go?
Fine. Here you are. Anything else?
How you feeling ’, vista? Mind if I take your friend ' round the dance floor?
What would you like to drink? Tea or coffee?
What ’ s the difference between football and rugby?
What do you want to study in the university? Have you thought about it?
Good coming, sir.
So am I.The doctor says she'll get over in a month.
Well, I think you should go for our manger. I will call him here.
Let me just check that on my computer. Oakfield is a low risk area, so your premiums will probably be around $ 100 a month. The other thing to take into account is deductibles.
Two number 3s, please.
His name is Bingo.
Out of every movie that you've seen, which one is your favorite?
Of course. What would you like?
Am I ever hungry? When will supper be ready?
This could be a great hotel, once you get rid of the insects. The city itself is great.
In that case, you need to turn on your airport.
It's your turn, sir. I'm sorry that you've had to wait.
We need to have them there at 11
I'm free tomorrow.
Thanks, doc. I ’ Ve got a really bad toothache! I can ’ t eat anything, and look, my face is all swollen. I think it might be my wisdom tooth.
The hours are from 9 am - 6
Just fine. I say. Aren't you busy tomorrow evening?
Can you go during the week, or can you only go during the weekend?
It doesn't matter. Follow me, please. What do you think of the table in the center of the dining room?
But my Rose is great.
Okay. Get back to your work, and call me back this evening.
Let me see. I am sorry we just have sold it out.
Yes, they're ready to go.
It feels very good.
Not a sound on the city streets, just the beat of my own heart, I think that ’ s how it goes, something like that.
My date may not be my type.
It doesn't matter. But I really haven't gone for a picnic for a long time.
Hell, I don't care. Just don'T submit a report to your insurancecompany.
He's got a promotion.
What kind of movie is it?
Ha-ha. Last night, I only told him practice makes perfect.
Toronto is really a lovely place to visit.
I was under the impression that both contracts had the same terms.
Yes, That ’ s right.
You've met her before, haven't you?
I'll take care of it.
But sometimes summer is more charming than the other seasons.
How long did the meeting last?
Your name and examination number, please.
Do you want cheese on it?
In a word, cockroaches!
Thank you. I ’ Ve worked pretty hard to be able to list those accomplishments.
Which countries have you been to?
Yes. How much is it to send these things to Shanghai by regular delivery?
That's going to be $ 4.05 a pound.
But then what would I do every weekend?
30 dollars and 10 cents? Here you go.
Alright. So tell me, how would you describe yourself?
I ’ ll give you a call around 6 o'clock and stop by around 6 thirty.
Don't worry. Our quality is based solely on our sales samples.
No, I'm sorry we don't. We accept credit cards and cash.
OK, I ’ ll sing San Francisco then.
Let's see now. Cut the potatoes into small cubes.
Why, do we need groceries?
They are all produced in China, aren't they?
Daniel, I can't catch up with the English teacher very well.
And your statement should be clear and brief to the point.
Uh, huh... so what kind of sports do you need a waterproof watch for?
I hate doing the damn laundry.
Is your lady beautiful? Since I came here from the country, I've not seen her close. Tell me, is she beautiful?
Wow, what a beautiful lake! The green hills and clear water really provide magnificent scenery.
Good. Do I have a second?
I don ’ t think I ’ ll need a Polaroid.Does this 35mm camera have an automatic flash?
No, I won ’ t hear of it.
What brand do you prefer?
I have a meeting with my General Manager.
I used to be down on the sales people until I saw her in action.
How do you like Chinese food?
I get drunk easily.
Perfect. So you can audition this weekend here at my house.
They had an argument and split up.
What's going on?
Sir, your hair is done. Anything else I can do for you?
No, once I did 32.
When is it convenient for you?
Congratulations! By the way, have you had all the things ready for the interview?
I ’ ll try my best to make a good impression on the interviewer.
I need to speak to an attorney regarding filing corporate govemance.
Does that include breakfast? Can I make calls on outside line?
Thanks, Monica. Without support from you and other colleagues, I would not have made it.
I hope it's quiet. I hate noise.
Which direction were you coming from? And which direction were you going?
I'm sure they have their suspicions ; there were only a few of the senior level layers who were privy to the case details.
All of the time tested healthy habits from around the world.
let ’ s think realistically about what might happen. How much money do you have in your savings?
maybe your boss isn't so horrible after all!
Oh, I see. We'll have to make up with the center one.
i saw lily for the first time. and fell like i'v been struck by lightening.she is a girl of my dreams. i have a date with her on Friday, but i really can't decide what to do.
You ’ Ve been working there for so long with so much sacrifice. You definitely deserve it.
I am very pleased to meet you.
Would you check the engine, please? It is knocking.
That's true. By the way, what kind of apartment are you looking for?
I am sorry to hear about that. Would you mind coming with me to my office and tell me exactly what happened here?
O. K., maybe if I have someone to go with, I ’ ll be able to get up in time for a jog.
So they say.
All right. I'll come. But I'd like to bring a present Something for your new house.What would you like?
Oops, no, Daddy can't watch American Idol, either!
Mr.Sellers? It's Steven speaking, your tenant. We've just suffered a power failure.What should I do now?
How about the eggplant and minced pork in dry red chili sauce and the ' Tofu ' beancurd? They are our specialties.
I don't want to sit there and watch them torturing the animals.
I'm afraid I'll be late.
All right. Then I can do some shopping today before going back to my country.
I am afraid that I forgot to send it in.
We are interested in this field.
That ’ s true. But Americans work hard for their money like we do. I don ’ t know why our spending habits are so different.
Yeah, he came back from America last week.
My room is facing the swimming pool. It’s noisy for me. I have a problem sleeping. And I feel uncomfortable when I take an elevator.
The Federal Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA as we call it for short, imposes a whole set of regulations on the import of food products to the United States. Over the years, they have become so rigid and complicated that they are now quite a head - ache for us importers.
Would you please let me know when we get to the stop? I am a stranger here.
I see. But I have to discuss it over with my boss before I make a decision.
Yes, I took a break from work during that time. I had a baby, and as she was born with a handicap, I decided to suspend my career. But I have continued to keep up with the Industry through con
Yes, of course. What is it?
Not yet. I don't know how to fill out the form. What is the tax-free allowance for supporting a dependent?
Yes, you like them very much. right?
It's already credited to your account.
When everything is over.
What's up?
How much do you have?
Yes, I do. Go on.
sounds great! I'll be there.
Do you know the address?
Yes, I think so. How much are they?
I can ’ t make a decision. You ’ ll have to put forward an idea.
The wine list is on the second page of your menu.
Look, Elaine Robinson and I do not get along.
Can you show me some traditional Chinese arts and crafts?
She's really tall. Do you know her?
I'd prefer a black one.
No, but I've got a headache.
Generally speaking, we can if we go at this speed and nothing unexpected happens.
Some friends of my parents live out there, and they invited me there.
No, but parents control a lot of the environment that kids grow up in, so they certainly influence their kids ' personalities a lot.
When we were students, he was no good in any subject.
I was thinking about getting a soda.
I'd like to talk to Mr. White please?
I'm dead serious about this, Sally.
My wife is really a chatter box. It’s so boring.
Which anti-virus program would you recommend?
That's no problem.He just has a friend who works in a shop that can do plastic wrap. That's easy.And probably it's the same shop he got the boxes from.Maybe his friend works in an electronics store. They sell video cameras there. Probably they had a couple video camera boxes lying around.So they get the idea of wrapping bricks to sell to fools like you.Twenty dollars a brick. That's a good profit if they can sell enough bricks.
Yes, I bought a few things.
It's nice, but still too expensive. Can you give me a 20 % discount?
Can you tell me where the produce is?
I don't want to argue with you anymore. This is going to be tough, but let's try to forget that and be friends.
well, I work in the marketing department. The corporate culture is totally different from my last employer. Before, when I was assigned a task, I was totally on my own but here most of the work is don
Wow, that does sound like it's going to be fun.
Is this the workshop to prepare for an interview?
Well, I was wondering where those people with professional attire come from. Now, I know the answer.
Jack, what are you doing?
There is no need to do that. I think the restaurant accepts credit cards. But it's necessary to make a budget.
I really like what you have. But the price for this product is much higher than we expected. I am absolutely not a buyer at that price.
I ’ m sorry the restaurant is full now. You have to wait for about half an hour. Would you like to have a drink at the lounge until there ’ s a table available.
Yes, please. I'd like to start with a chef ’ s salad.
Bring me some toast, please.
Thank you. Do you want your money back, or would you like to exchange it?
Yes, I'll be waiting for you in my home by 10:00.
Hoo, I'm getting tired, Jeanine, been a long day.
Oh, I bet it's really quiet. But is there much to do there?
It must've been a close game.
What was it doing there?
I understand. Thank you very much!
Hello! I ’ m now trying to take a bath, but there are too many buttons, would tell me how to use them?
That's correct, 1,000 RIB. I'll need your personal code to deposit this. Could you enter it on this key pad, please?
Fine. Here you go.
They must be amazing animals.
Yes, I have. I tried them when I visited your country last year. I thought they were very tasty. Can you cook them?
Yes, the mass media has wider influence. One of my classmates works in an advertisement company. I can get help and inspiration from him. And we can also try some less expensive approaches of advertising, such as on-line sales. Personally, I prefer to the on-line sales, for it is cheaper, faster and wider.
No, it's too crowded.
Maybe I would talk with him someday.
Hey, Gucci. I didn't know it would be a charity show. You can see there are many collecting boxes at the entrance.
Ever hear of WebTracker?
Actually, are you doing anything on Friday or Saturday? He's playing those two nights as well.
It's not your birthday, also not mine. Hey, come on. Just tell me.
Were you able to see a lot?
So, why did you leave PCC?
The cream form is very popular.
What kind of juice do you prefer, sir?
Yes, I did, I thought it was a failure.
When shall we have a coaching period?
Do you have the receipt with you?
Hello, this is Mr. Smith in Room 502. Please send up a bellboy. I'm checking out. What time is checking out time?
I ’ m sorry to hear that.Take care of yourself.
It's red.
Isn ’ t London hot in the summer?
Linda, John and I are going to get married next week.
When would you like to collect the tickets?
I couldn't even stand on it and hold the sail. I probably fell down fifty times.
When did the pipe start leaking?
Yeah, It’s your turn to drive next week. Don ’ t be late picking me up.
Can you describe your health concern?
No. Do we need tickets?
You mean the seventy seventh? It's not far from here. You can walk there.
Yes, sir. I apologize for that. Here ’ s the file you were looking for, Mr. Emory.
no, I thought I'd wait until you got home.
that's right. It'll probably work out to be about the same then anyway.
I hear that you've got a chance to go to Europe for a half-year training program. Is it true?
Do you have another card I could try?
Here you are. Thank you
Do you think it's suitable for me?
All right, I'll let you know when I get through.
If you'd just give me your number and insurance, then I'll handle it.
Are there any more?
OK. thank you. Could you please fill out this form?
Sorry, I need a trip to the bog.
We are looking for a bilingual secretary. Do you think you are proficient in both written and spoken English?
Government is making efforts to change situation.
Did he hurt you?
It seems that the climate in this country is changing.
All right. That nearly done a little.Now I want you to look some pictures.
No, they're really quite easy. Wait a minute, I've got the recipe right here.See... these are the ingredients, and then you just follow the directions.
May I send food for him?
Please wait a moment, Mr. Black. I'll have to check the reservation records... I'm sorry, but we are expecting several tour groups to arrive today. They have booked all the rooms on the 10th floor.
Good afternoon, I'm looking for Mr. Alert Li.
Now, all this is available to you, as far as you make payment within a 30 day grace period. That shouldn't be a problem, right?
Yes, you are right. I love flowers and hence have taken to growing them. I take care of my flowers every day as if they are my good friends.
this song is really worthy listening to and enjoying.
is that the red one? That is my favorite, too. Do you know how much they are?
No, my picture wasn't taken.
Thank you. I didn't want to have to take this to court.
You know, maybe we could take a survey to see how that works for everyone.
Listen. I will see what I can do, ok? You go home and tell Lily about this problem you have now. She is your wife and I am sure she will understand.
The Award Letter will tell you how much you will receive weekly.
May I ask you for a dance?
Yes, the snow is fun.
Yes, sir. I'll bring your drink right away.
Did you take the written test?
If you buy 1,000 or more, you'll get a 10 % discount.
Can you help me on my move-in day?
I have found I ’ m short-sighted recently. I need to wear glasses. As a student, It’s better for me to wear ordinary glasses instead of contact lenses.
Did you find everything ok today?
Look! They're going to do the first drawing! It's for a DVD player!
Oh, I watched it on television. It was an exciting match.
How much do they weigh?
No. It's confiscated for now. And I will return it to you after I finish reading it.
yeah. we never do that in a public office.
Oh really? Who was the instructor? There are like 4 different instructors to choose from.
Certainly. It’s actually the Chinese New Year and is regarded by the Chinese as the most important holiday of the year.
Hey, honey! Is that you? Don't eat all the cookies — I want some, too!
OK. Hurry up.
Here's some water. Take these multi-vitamins and Tylenol.
Right. How about the unemployment compensation and the retirement pension?
Come on, sweetie, you've done very well. It is the first step that is tough.
Sorry. What was that you said?
I like flexible hours.
Have you worked out the offers. Mr. Thou?
4945939. Marvellous! Thanks for your help.
Good morning, Ms Chan. What can I get you today?
I've brought some potato chips. Would you like some, Jack?
Sure, what ’ s up?
Table-tennis is our national game.
Oh, I see, but what's it used for?
I need to get there before ten.Can we make it?
you might want to change your plans. With the cold and wet weather that we're supposed to have tomorrow, the roads are going to be rather slippery.
Are you almost finished with my hair?
I'm honored to know you.
Can't complain. What about you?
There was something wrong with the plane last Thursday.
Because we are partners in our science lab. Why are you so jealous?
How many chances should I give you? I've given up on you!
How long will it take to get the regular one?
Good. I think I'll get too nervous to look at myself in the mirror!
If I give you the keys to the garage, could you bring it back on Sunday evening?
That may be true, but I don't want an inter-office relationship to affect my productivity.
A reasonable number of sick days will be covered by the company.Any extended illness will be covered by insurance.Have you read the other terms of the contract?
As soon as possible, because I've got an important meeting to attend.
It’s probably just people trying to get an early start out of the city for the weekend. Nobody sticks around in the summer.
I wish he could too.
Won't you watch TV?
We have achieved great success last year.The most important is that we realize our strength lies in after-sale service.
Yes, she said they couldn't communicate well with each other and they often argued over trivial things.
I hope you can try to get them to step up production.
Very well. We have some fresh red roses.
He is a teacher, but he makes a little money on the side by repairing cars in his free time.
Can I wear T-shirt and jeans for the job interview?
I work downtown at station 24.It can get a little crazy sometimes but that ’ s what makes it challenging.
Yes, it has. We ’ re going to target the business community through business magazines.
If you don't mind, Mr. Smith, please go to counter number six to queue up and wait for the service.
Roman is living in Rome, of course. And go to work by car, or bus, or on foot.
There ’ s some paperwork, but most of the time we put any information onto computers. Then we can send information to each other by email or across the network. Do you work in a cubicle?
Is the new computerised stock system in operation?
Are you busy on the 24th?
Let's see. If we have it, it should be over there under M. ( He looks through the Cds. ) Hmm, it looks like we've sold out of that one, but we should be getting some more copies in soon. If you want, we can order it for you.
Yes, we have a very pleasant time. Thank you for being so nice for us.
Oh, I love him too. He not only sings well but shows perseverance when he encounters difficulties in the contest.
What was the party like last night, Jean?
Have you met my wife, Mary?
I am sorry, sir.We will send our staff right now.
All right. You're all set. Have a nice flight.
Oh, I know. I saw you doing pull-ups one time on the campus 5 and some students trying to imitate you.
Is Mr Li in?
Can I draw my tax back here?
If you ’ re interested in this position, please send me your resume.
Not at all. We are friends.
Good morning. May I help you?
I'm looking forward to summer vacation.
How obnoxious! I heard he was sending you dirty jokes.
What am I suppose to do?
May we see the wine list please?
What's wrong, officer?
It is hard to get used to a new place, isn't it?
Yes, a great deal. The business scope has been broadened, and there are more visitors than ever before.
Did he telephone again?
Hey, Ann. You don't have a pen, do you?
It looks pretty good. I think I'll take it.
Is PCC a good school?
Oh, I am sorry to hear that. I did ’ t know that you had split up. What happened?
I don't know about you, but I am famished. Are you interested in getting a bite to eat?
Yes, I'd love to.Here is a good one, Mozart and Beethoven.It ' s on the Festival Hall.Shall we go there?
Oh yes, some wire cutters.
Well, there are only two classes open.
You can send a compressed one.
Thanks, that's would be lovely.You ' r right, he is kind and nice looking.
Sure. Let me just grab my calendar. All right. I ’ m free all day Tuesday and Thursday morning.
Don ’ t you think that ’ s good idea to hold a party outside?
It sounds good. You can do a lot of sightseeing, too.
as you know, table manners in China are quite different from those of Westerners.
Certainly.Go along Queen's Road...
Well, the wrong information is in my file. I was at a concert Monday night.
not much at all. I think it's about 100 dollars.
Ok, the mirror is over there.
His name is Grunt. Come closer and I'll properly introduce you.
I might get one too, but in a different color. I prefer light blue to white 。
Of course. What is your size?
You mean I have the job?
What color would you prefer?
Do you have any siblings?
You might also want to upgrade your hardware because it is pretty outdated now.
What should we bring with us?
I suppose so. A haircut, please.
When will you set out?
Only one. But I wanted to make sure I'd get it.
Right, that's fine. I'd like it to get there as quickly as possible.
Not so many really. But a lot of houses are destroyed sometimes.
Look, I have two tickets.Will you go with me?
I think that's a bad idea. I'd hate anyone here to think of me as a friend.How would they ever respect me as they can do whatever they want?
Have you found anything yet?
Sam, I am so sorry. It was your birthday yesterday and I completely forgot about it.
Well, the traffic is very loud. I got no sleep last night.
Actually, the woman playing Ophelia is a past classmate of mine.
Is it useful for me?
I don't think the teacher had a right to say that.The teacher was wrong to have accused her in front of the whole class.
He's 78 and he's a new emigrant from South America and he's never been to school.
You dare to doubt me?
How much is the rents?
Can you tell me my options?
$ 200? If they get a hold of your credit card number, you're going to be out a lot more than $ 200! I had a friend who...
The end of this month.
There is too much traffic in Taipei these days, I think cars should be banned.
He borrowed it from Nick.
what a bummer! You set me up?
Yes, we try to accommodate all needs of our patrons, including fitness.
A stop! Wait for the lights to turn green.
Hello, I ’ d like a return to Xi ’ an please.
Why do you think you be a good fit or this job?
To study. I am going to the University of Tampa to do a postgraduate course for three years.
OK, give me two pairs in white.
I really envy you. You know I'm not taking my vacation until December.
You look great.Your make-up is perfect.
Well. I ’ Ve done a lot of business for my company. And now I feel like going into business for myself.
A vegan. I don't eat or use any animal based products. I don't wear leather, eat eggs, drink milk or anything that comes from an animal. I used to be a pescatarian before, which basically means you don't eat meat, but still have fish and seafood.
Fine, the two best ways are to use our local listings binders over there or you can use the computers with the Internet job listing sites. See them over there?
Does the cafeteria sell a lot of different food?
Yes. I need a tow truck. My car is broken down.
It has a great balcony with an incredible view of the park.
Why not go again to celebrate our one-year anniversary? We can go to the same beach, stay in the same hotel and enjoy a dinner in the same restaurant.
I go as much as I can. I love hiking because you can really get in touch with nature.
I ’ ll cancel that check for you.
if you cuddle them a lot when they are very young, they can be just as affectionate as dogs or cats.
It's 2065 meters. Come on. Let us keep up the pace.
How many cigarettes do you have?
They're all here.
I turned on my laptop and it broke! I mean, the monitor went black!
Sure it is. So you'd better get rid of this idea.
You have gone against the traffic rules.
I see. Can you weigh them for me, please?
For three bottles of Tsingtao beer.
It’s 8357688 8.
In that case, you ’ d better have it registered.
Are you able to compose music?
Yes, It's fully furnished.
Yes, I do. What do you see as the future trends for the industry?
Sounds good. When and where shall we meet?
My brother-in-law is having a small get-together at his house and he invited me.
Come on, I got numerous shots for that. You have no idea what I've been through with the needles.
I don't think it smells nice.
Yes, please bring us two steaks.
What is today?
Why do you go fishing so often?
Really? Do I look happy all the time?
not really. There are many successful mixed marriage around us.
Look! That man who is baking bread is so handsome.
Well, like since I'm black, I must like rap music, come from the inner city, or play basketball well.
Let's program your courses. Since you have had English literature, you should take American literature and American prose and fiction.You transcript indicate that your English background is strong, so I don't think you have any problem with it.
Yeah... for Halloween! We have a big office party tomorrow evening. There's a prize for best costume!
Any cigarettes? Baker?
Can you hold the end of this tape measure?
One that I recommend is that you lie on your back. You should have a weight in each hand and stretch your arms out either side of your body.
How long do you plan to stay in the United States?
Of course. We have three different plans with different prices you can choose from. The first one is the cheapest but most basic plan which is thirty dollars a month. This is for broadband internet with a download speed of five hundred and twelve kbps.
Well, I approach things very enthusiastically, I think, and I don't like to leave something half-done. It makes me nervous-I can't concentrate on something else until the first thing is finished.
Honey? Have you seen our soup bowls?
You've made a good choice. This china tea set is unusual. It was made in Jingdezhen.
I'll check the costs and call you back.
You have never gone to the Statue of Liberty?! I can't believe it! But you live here!
She was a psycho, man. One time we were suppose to get together. I was waiting for her call, and when she finally called, she was screaming why I wasn't at her place.
Dear, forgive me. I won ’ t do that again.
Well, for a site like ecrush.com, since their debut in Valentine's Day in 1999, of the 1.5 million people who have joined ecrush.com, 300000 have actually matched.
Look at the swiss roll over there, they look delicious, too, I am thinking about buying one.
What ’ s your plea?
Jane, what do think about this dinner?
That ’ s a good idea. You have a lot of good fashion sense.
Next time you see him, please tell him I'm thinking of him.
There is something in what you said, but what is the rent?
Which book? This one?
It's actually a Deposit Account that links to your Margin Account, the one you have with the Securities Company. You can transfer the money you have in your account into your Fund Account.
You sure have bad luck these days.
By the way, is the fair the same for any distance?
So I wonder why you want to work for a newspaper.
That's right, Ms. Bower. How are you? I'm not sure if I ’ ll be able to fit you in this week, I ’ m afraid.
Sort of yes.
What ’ s the current interest rate?
That is an excellent choice, and I could bring you your salads now or bring them with your dinner.
The last thing to be ignored at a Chinese dinner table is to keep modest.
She's probably about five feet.
Yes, it deserves its name.
Let's see, Mr. Horn... The doctor's schedule is full today. Would tomorrow be all right?
They usually do.
I have to work during the day, so I want to find a part-time course that I can do in the evenings.
And what is the expiration date on your passport?
turbulence is pretty normal, isn't it?
How about this afternoon?
It's part of their service, isn't it?
Right. With the establishment of Internet and a lot of web companies, people are getting more and more dependent on the web.
We serve excellent Chinese food. Which style do you prefer?
But it doesn't look like a real bus stop.
Oh, Dad, look at the sign, please!
I'm afraid not.He ' s gone for the rest of the day.
Do you think you can teach me?
Yeah, I was thinking we could get a bite to eat and catch a movie.
Please lie down over there.
I began to went there last month.
Hey, John! I haven ’ t seen you in ages! What ’ s new? What have you been up to?
It might begin now.
Why does the government levy the tariff?
How is your appetite today?
Hello, this is Catherine. I am calling about the appointment with Mr. Liu for this afternoon. Something has just come up. I am afraid the appointment will have to be rescheduled. I am very sorry about the change.
You're right. It's only 9
Pleased meet you, too, Mr. Dou.
I've always admired vegetarians.
Okay. Input your pin number, please. Sign here.
there ’ s problem with my bank statement. There ’ s a mistake on it. I also need to withdraw some money form the ATM.
I bet my button dollar that he won't. He is no more than a nine day's wonder.
Hello, sir. Have you anything to declare?
Do you want large or small bills?
I finally found an apartment that I want to rent.
Hi, Jason. It’s Elizabeth Montgomery. Have you got those plans drawn up yet?
I haven't been to the Mall in a long time. Let's go there.
You need to print your name on this list.
Yes, we had a good time. The trip was terrific. We toured the Three Gorges by boat. Its realty exciting!
Why not buy the sweater? It only costs 30 Yuan.
Why? You pay so much for such a tiny space to live.
I need to use the ATM.
Remember last month when we were in Europe? Maybe Californians use that same system they add the waiter or waitress into the bill, so you don ’ t have to leave anything extra.
But not enough space for me?
Oh, its nothing.
Oh, that sounds great. I'll take it.
Sure. Please put your baggage on scale.
By the way, Mrs. Wang, we have a mind to do joint participation with you on Japanese arts and crafts in our market. Would you entertain this proposal?
True. I always see him drinking instant.
It says smoking is not allowed in any private offices. It might be the most terrible thing for you.
OK. I can make a special offer for you. This price is based on careful calculations. And it is the lowest price we can offer to you.
Well, the real hackers mostly think crackers are lazy, irresponsible and not very bright, and feel that being able to break security does make you a hacker any more than being able to start cars without keys makes you an automotive engineer. Unfortunately, many journalists and writers have been fooled into using the word hacker to describe crackers. This irritates real hackers to no end.
Let's go sit in the back. All the cool kids do.
Ah, right. How much do I need to spend?
You ’ d better change it. It’s ugly.
But I'm quite careful when I'm browsing the internet, I have no idea how I could have picked a virus.
A few guys even threw a drunken fit last night, crying hoarsely and bawling whole heaps of nonsense that I never understood.
Yes, of course. You will be responsible for the designing and developing new products and also be in charge of the evaluation of the software programs including complex software systems to ensure product features and operation complaints.
Firstly, it is convenient. And secondly, it has low cost, because you know you only need to pay the fee of internet service.
What ’ s the service like?
I didn ’ t go anywhere. I stayed at home.
Have you heard of Paul?
There is nothing at all to worry about. Once you're in the air, it's just like sitting in your own living room. It's going to be a very pleasant flight.
Good idea. Let's go. Where should we go?
So Emily, do you still want to see a movie together this weekend?
Thank you. That's very nice of you.
Well. You ’ Ve come prepared. I have all the necessary materials so we can go ahead and make the transfer right now. It’s a simple transaction, and we can process it today.
I didn't like it at all until I started to learn violin when I was eight. From then on. classical music has been an important part of my life.
Oh dear! That's terrible! What was in your wallet?
No, their cards are for sale.
Great! Now tell me, what are the hours of this gym?
I guess you could say that. What kind of games do you like?
I basically believe in science over theology. I mean, I believe in evolution for example. However, there are many things that science hasn ’ t explained yet.
Thank you very much for offering me this opportunity.
Hi, Sir. What can I do for you?
Yes. We just had a basketball match with Class Two.
Okay. Thank you for your reminder.
I ’ m sorry She isn ’ t in at the momment.She will come back at half past nineCan I take a message for her?
I think the plans look good. There's just one thing though, I'm a bit concerned about the main lorry entrance. What's the height clearance?
I'd just like a trim and don't make it too short.
We always sell the best. You can believe us at this point.
I'll bring it over.
I will ask my friends for you.Maybe someone knows a company that needs part-time people.That ' s another thing you should do. Ask all your friends to ask around for you.You might find something.
It’s about time.
It was only the cheek.
ok, here are some of our most popular perfumes.
Funny.Oh, i like this song. It's by one of my favorite singers.
Okay. I'll pick you up at 6:00.
Come any time after eight. All right?.
Thank you for letting me borrow your portable CD player.
Do you let me know where to get off?
Do you feel like having anything to eat?
How long do you expect to stay there?
Yes! It’s very fine meat! Made it myself...
Oh, that's great. You're serious this time.
No constipation. Everything seems OK.
I felt dizzy when I stare at those shining lights. What should we do firstly?
I will take part in the finals soon.
Really? We began to load the goods after we made sure they were qualified.
That's enough. Sit down.
Great, thanks a lot.
Okay, I'll talk to you later then.
I would like you to give me a different hair style.
I'd like to, but I'm tied up with my paper.
I'm having some trouble. I don't know how to use this printer. I've never seen this kind of office printer before. Is it a new brand?
My son, Harvey just got into Harvard! He starts next September.
It's in between the wall and the bed.
I can confidently say that my Chinese and English are pretty good. I won prizes in many speech contests in both Chinese and English.
I read something like that once. I think it was, ' Life is in the breath. '
As soon as you can get here. We'll be waiting for you.
I know a place that should be perfect. It's called the China Friendship Shopping Center and it's pretty much like an American mall - except with more variety. You can even buy a live chicken there if you want.
I've only done it once.
I'm interested in putting some of my money into investment tools, you know, something other than stocks and such like. Do you have any ideas?
I guess so.
Yes, I do. It’s very interesting. What ’ s your job?
Oh, it is the right time for you purchasing in our clothes shop. We are now having a low price on all our summer apparel.
I do wish your christmas and happy new year.
How much is the charge?
Do you do a lot of your shopping online?
Yes, just the video.
I'll make sure to get it tomorrow.
No, some of them are my friend's. Do you want her passport, too?
I'm not an expert, but that's the impression I have.
Vancouver is the third largest city in Canada.
I know it is quite different from Western chess.
If you have your ID and are willing to pay a year in advance, we can do that for you today, there is no need to wait.
Yes. This big one is badly decayed. I'm afraid it must be taken out.
About 80 million dollars.
I'm sure it is wonderful, but I need an unfurnished apartment with relatively lower cost.
Yes, to tell you the truth, there is.
Yes, please. we need a record of you education and your work experiences.
Really? Then just ask her to follow me.
I prefer Monday.
Some guy in the accounting department has a brother on the team!
How about a movie? We haven't done that for a while.
How long I will stay with the company depends on whether the company and I are satisfied with each other.
Yeah, I'm expecting to come back on Tuesday.
That is very kind of you. Thank you very much.
We need your detail explanation.
I know how it works. You don't want to give away any more of your future profits than you have to.
Yes, I did, but Linda stood me up. She didn't keep the date for the first time.
To tell the truth, I feel tired.
Would you like to go to the movies tonight?
I have worked on about every system that is out right now.
John? It’s Susan Miller.
What qualities would you expect of persons working as a team?
As you know, I am a sports fan. And these papers are famous for their sports section. So I will feel relaxed after grasping some information I am interested in.
That sounds really good! Does it come with a soup?
Of course. I will deliver my resume to you in minutes ' time. I hope you will consider my application and I shall appreciate a reply at your earliest convenience.
How ’ s your trip going?
He has big blue eyes and long blonde hair.
Oh, yes, is it dangerous?
Are there many things online?
Well, I think it's fabulous. And the neighbors don't even seem to exist.
Do you mind retiring earlier?
So, Jimmy, how does it feel to have your own money?
No kidding. So tell me what's your favorite color?
I'm absolutely sure that this is what I want.
You're not?
All right. Here it is.
Oh, he's the coach of the football team.
I like it very much, but it's a little confusing to me.
Oh dear, my weight has gone up again.
Excuse me, miss. Can I have my dinner please? I am so hungry.
What is the weather like in Washington at this time of this year?
Any particular decade?
It's Friday.
Are you having a meeting?
Yes, but you will need to send us proof of their mistake.
We sell them, right here.
Lately I've felt that company morale is at an all-time low what can your firm do to help get my business back on track?
No, thanks. I have got to work overtime.
Hello, Madam. What can we do for you today?
it's hard to say, but i do love foxtrot and waltz.
Great. Well, the main issue here, as you can see is that our expenses are through the roof.
Sure. It's probably a skiing show. Adam told me there are many skiing clubs whose members put on shows to attract more visitors.
Yes, I work well under pressure and find it dimly. However, I believe planning and probable management of my time can reduce tight deadlines.
If you're lucky, that might do the trick.
I don't know how to make that.
I brought some cheese to make cheeseburgers and some onions for the hot dogs.We ’ ll need some tomato catchup and some barbecue sauce.
Thank you very much. I hope you enjoy your stay.
Oh, yeah. I forgot tax. Give me four then, please.
Thanks for noticing.
What's more, she doesn't have scandals. And she likes to take part in the charitable activities.
Not at all.
Not often. Just when I make mistakes.
Paul failed again.
I'm afraid not, sir.
What? Ed, don ’ t tell me you only have bad news!
R :: Good morning. Room Reservations. May I help you?
Yeah, me too! What are you thinking you would like to do?
don't worry about it. Tonight is my treat.
You are so thoughtful.
What are you waiting for? Get on that bus quickly.
There is no need. I will come back tomorrow.
Please have them wrapped. I'll take them away.
I ’ m rather disappointed at not being able to see my best friend off.
Thank you. Anything else?
Well, I like to play darts. Whenever I go to a bar, I usually play for a few hours.
I've got it all covered.
Mark is one of them. He has trouble with a girl who turned out to be a dead beat.
yes, we called, but it is booked up. The only choice is the Regent Beijing but we haven't made up our minds yet.
You ’ re kidding.
Good morning. I have a reservation for a single room with a bath here.
Would 7:00 be OK?
You won ’ t get anywhere that way. You ’ re the one who needs to practice English, so you should make the first move. Besides, most American students are really friendly and outgoing. They will be glad to talk to you.
We are going to try the new one that opened up on 17th Street.
My car run out of petrol.
What kind do you want?
Yes, Madam, may I help you?
That's incredible! She has such a sharp figure.
He borrowed some money from me and I needed it back. He said he didn ’ t have the money yet.
Is he breathing?
Just for yourself?
Don't worry. We'll allow you a higher commission rate if your sales score a substantial increase.
I will miss you, too. You're really a good friend.
Excuse me, what's your name?
Julia, will you be my wife?
I want to redo this poster, but John and Mary think it's good enough as it is.
Wow, you really live in the Stone Age, Mom.
How fun! Can I bring something?
Thank you. You do me a big favor.
Certainly. See you in the afternoon.
It's true.
Fine. The next course starts a week from tomorrow.
He's only interested in harassing you. How can he expect us to have so much time to waste?
That still leaves a gap of 20 dollars to be covered. Let's meet each other half way once more, then the gap will be closed and our business completed.
Because the traffic is not crowded.
I really want to go to the beach this weekend.
It tells a romantic and humorous love story.
Have you got any plans for the coming holiday?
Hi, Mary, I didn't see you at work this morning. Are you all right?
Should I take this medicine on an empty stomach?
I guess I misjudged you. I hope you can forgive me.
Oh, yes. Our windows let plenty of natural light in. They've also got wonderful views of the park behind our house.
How long will it take to reach the buffet?
I think we can go to the river, go around and have supper.
Oh, These are exactly what I ’ m looking for.
Congratulations! Mr. Stuart! You won the city marathon.
Is there anything I can help you with?
Well, it's a pyramid-shaped dumpling made from glutinous rice wrapped in reed leaves.
The headmaster asked them not to do so.
Oh, French dressing.
Where is your polling place?
Yes. Only the top designer try to tell people to change fashion every year, but only rich people can do it.
That's a good idea! So you don't need to worry about it.
Elvis Presley. Don't you recognize his voice?
How about the soup?
That's easy. If I were you, I'd date me!
how do you like working in sales?
Yes, the fuse had blown and I've changed it but now the motor keeps cutting out.
Oh, I'd much prefer to go by car, then we don't need to get to the station with our luggage and...
Yeah? How ’ s he doing?
It's all right. Kids are like that.
Honey, do you have a second?
Basketball, football, table tennis. I will watch them on TV.
Ok, wait a minute... let's see. I'm a Taurus, and it says, Mars is in the third house, and is soon to eclipse Venus. I don't know what that means, but then it says, Your charm and drive will win others over to your way of thinking. Remember to be positive. Sounds good to me.
Could you help me prepare for my presentation on Friday?
It sounds reasonable. The clause should be like this - any disputes arising from the execution of this contract shall be settled in a friendly way. If no settlement can be reached through consul - nation and conciliation, the disputes shall be submitted for arbitration by a mutually nominated arbitrator. The arbitrator's decision on the dispute is final and binding on the both parties.
You will receive a Continued Claim Form and every two weeks, you must turn it in.
Well, I suppose one of the problems is... will depend on what a person's life style is, and that if he has other outside interests which are equally important to him as television, he will then, you know, hmm. be more careful about which programme she wants to watch because he has time which he wants to use for other things.
I ’ d like to work in marketing. I think I could have a good career in that field.
I believe it. Hoo, this car corners like it's on rails.
I graduated from Beijing College of Foreign Trade. My major was International Trade.
She told me that Peter and she has a quarrel last nigh, and she left this morning, bag and baggage.
I know you are keen on photography. It’s very useful for you to be able to download photos from your digital camera. Then you attach the picture files to emails and send them to anyone, anywhere, at anytime!
I'm after things to stuff dumplings with, like Chinese cabbage
All-right guy? All right. Let's talk about something else instead.
I'll pass on the soup, but I'd like a garden salad.
Very good. It's a pleasure to do business with you, Mrs. Phoebe.
Goodbye and have a good flight.
I'm sorry, but it's a bad movie. The plot is stupid, and the script is poorly written.
I use it for several things-surfing the net, word processing and creating presentations. I don ’ t play many games on my computer, but I do a lot of work with photographs. Using c computer program, you can edit and resize photographs. You can also make them brighter or darker and cut pieces from different photographs to create new ones.
I'd like to withdraw some money from my account.
What's the fare for a first class seat?
how about tango?
oh, that's Janice. She's just new in town. You have a thing for blonds, eh?
I can ’ t sleep or eat. I have a really bad pain in my tooth!
Yes, I will. I hope I'll enjoy working with you.
Really? How could you do that? Don't you save every couple minutes?
Exactly. How much do you want for it?
We are gaining a day.
I love most how it is at night after it rains.
Sense and Sensibility, English version.
Oh really! That sounds lovely.
Tristan, could you stay a few extra minutes to discuss your project with me?
Thank you. Can I pick up my ticket when I check in?
Very well, consider me gone.
Sorry, I thought you knew.
Wouldn ’ t the owners have told me about any problems?
OK, you promise don't tell your mother about it, we'll take a taxi.
Yes that might be a better idea.
Don ’ t be angry with me. I have a bad memory.
There's been bad blood between them since Bobbie took away John's girlfriend.
So, what ’ s new in the kitchen? That refrigerator is new, isn ’ t it?
Yes, it's not short enough to be wash-and-go and not long enough to do anything fancy.
Do you know where it measured on the Richter scale?
Forget it. I don't want to inflict any more pain on myself. In a little while I'll go and buy some more painkillers and take a nap.
Shadow-boxing? How interesting! Do you think it really helpful for your health?
Can I sign up for some classes today?
I'll go down there as soon as I can!
Well, I notice that you currently provide an on-screen TV Guide. At the moment, it just scrolls the names of the programs in a repeated loop. If you have many channels, you have to wait a long t
My background and experience include working on a variety of projects and jobs in the financial industry. Most of my experience has been behind the scenes, doing the calculations. I want to work with clients and continue to grow and be challenged.
Wait a minute! It also says that the Christ Re-deemer statue in Brazil and the Colosseum in Rome are wonders. I would love to go to Italy and see the Colosseum, stand in the middle like a gladiator!
That's my boy! Wait, Daniel, when is Pirates of the Caribbean on?
Certainly not. Take one of these white pills three times a day.
Hi, Francis, how was your business trip?
I see. Wait for a moment please. I am sorry, Mrs. Clinton, but the remittance doesn't appear to have arrived yet.
I have cockroaches crawling in my room.
That's okay. Well, let me think. How about a mystery novel?
I've heard that you provide very good service, so when I need a mover, I call you guys first.
that's not bad at all. How's the microphone? Does it pick up much sound?
That would be great! Thanks a lot!
Oh, there's plenty. Flowers and plants from all over the world, of course. Besides, gardening techniques are demonstrated, modern facilities displayed, academic exchanges and seminars organized, and folk performances of different nations shown almost every day.
Well, thank you, but it's not all that hard to do, you know. I've been calling your office and sending you proposals for about two years now, and you've never responded before.
This is amazing. I'm glad we decided to take this bus tour. So where next?
Kobe? I know him, the key guy of the Lakers, a heck of a NBA player. He is on fire when he breaks through enemy defense.
Of course not. If you're feeling bad and want to let your emotions out, you can just say whatever you want to me.
The connections between your CPU and your outlet.
I'm sorry, sir, but we have no trainer.
You said you received your card this morning, am I right?
Here's your roast chicken, ma'am.
Really, John. I still think you should go to a doctor. You've been sneezing ever since you entered the office this morning. Why don't you take this afternoon off? If you don't want to see a doctor, at least you can go home and have a good rest.
If that happen to me, I ’ ll take them back to the shop.
So you are green with envy at your neighbor?
I took that class last year. The professor is really cool, so if you go to his office, you can have him sign a card that will let you in even if the class is full.
Paris is a beautiful city. I have never been there. Have you ever been there, Ken?
You ‘ re welcome.
Oh, you poor thing!
What are you going to do next year?
All right, and how will you have it?
What comes with the special?
Yes.But Mary is no match for Susan in painting.
Well, you heard right. You can get an excellent deal on a new computer here. We have great discounts for students.
no, but now he'll be in trouble. What's a boyfriend for? To forget about Valentine's Day?
Yes, I love my new life.
Ok, this premium for the difference between 130 % and 110 % of the invoice value should be borne by the buyer.
You cannot judge a person that way. I have a hunch that he is a sly dog.
Does the test cover everything in the manual?
Post offices are still the place to go to collect welfare benefits, like unemployment benefit and child support benefit. The queue are very long on the days when people collect those payment.
Thank you. Please come again.
I got a ticket a couple of days ago.
I agree. So many celebrities waste their money on sports cars, expensive clothing, and luxurious hotels.
yeah. It's hard to believe that it's been ten years since graduation. It feels just yesterday we collected our diplomas.
Oh, dear, I'm so happy.
How do you propose to help him understand that?
I also have blow if you prefer to do a few lines.
It costs 125 dollars a month.
Where are you going?
"No, I haven't had a chance to. But I have been watching a Chinese TV scries called "" Chinese-Style Divorce ""."
Maybe it was, but answer the question.
But if we're going to start a band, we have to be able to sing and dance. Can you do that?
Our price is worked out according to the costing. A 20 % commission means an increase in our price. So, I'm afraid we have to decline your proposal of acting as our sole agent.
I'm afraid 800 is too expensive for me. Could you recommend something around 300?
Well, coffee isn't such a bad thing.Everyone has to have something.For me, it's cigars. Are you a cigar smoker?
Are you working or are you a student?
It'll be great to have you again.
I know how you feel.
Excellent. Class is over. Let's have a break.
Would you like to have them altered? Or would you like a different size?
What? Why do we have to do that?
Let's watch it together.
I'd like to see some coats. Would you recommend me some of them?
So the other party could be across the world or just on the other side of the street!
What about you? Your gym bag is gathering dust and you still have brand new running shoes that are yet to be jogged in.
But how did you know I was working for WebTracker?
Good afternoon, Mr. Brown. My name is Mrs. Anderson, manager of the sales department.
I need to get one.
What will the numbers tell me?
Hello Greg. Yes, that's correct. You see, we have just acquired a new partner, the transaction is huge. It's to be signed next month, and we would really like to have some clearer information about them.
OK, here you are. You look really attractive in that gown.
I was meaning to ask you if you saw the basketball game on Friday.
oh no. the train hasn't been crowded at all recently. Besides, you're in first-class, so you'll be fine.
that's not too far away. Do you think I'll get a visa?
Nice meeting you, too.
Don't worry about it.
Nope. I guess something might have come up.
Breakfast is brain food. Maybe that's why your grades are Suffering.
I think you've got a real bargain.
You like it. Well, I'll gather it for you.
The city is beautiful, the off..., the offices are modern and comfortable, and the work is so interesting.
My father thought it would be a good experience to take a vacation to a different country. He's so into learning about different cultures.
Can you describe a mango to me?
Sometimes it goes fast. And sometimes it goes slow. And the alarm doesn'twork, either.
It’s a great car. It’s very comfortable and it goes really fast.
Don't worry, madam. Can you make a description of your baggage?
You know, we want to totally furnish our new office building. This is a list of what we need. Could you give me a ballpark figure for everything on this list?
What size do you want the prints?
Look at the map to see where you are. Then look at where you want to go. The number is how much money you have to pay.
Of course. Because the TV stations need to make money from commercials between the programs.
And they're really safe. They'll protect your ear from sound damage.
It sure is
I remember you are in love.
Yes, even her mom.
OK. Here they are.
When can I go to see him?
A new car! You're kidding!
I apologize. What day was this purchase made?
I've done it for you.
You're still going to get it.
I look forward to more of the meal.
Is tax already included in their price?
I think that I might be getting the flu.
Do you have anything which can prevent wrinkles and freckles?
Look, is that Tom?
This is ridiculous! In Taiwan, it is much easier to get medicine when I need it.
It's okay.
I think there's someone at the door. Excuse me while I go and get that.
I ’ Ve never played Chinese chess before, but I ’ Ve seen old men playing it in the street. It looks complicated.
Things are going well with me.
But you know it's hard for a new graduate to find a job right now.
So you're traveling around the world, aren't you.
OK, follow me.
I can help you with that. Do you still have your receipt?
All right. But so help me it better work.
What courses did you take in English secretarial studies?
All of you have reported your achievements. I'd like to remind you that we must be aware of the threat we face.
Yeah, these programs are gradually losing their appeal.
I prefer the blue one.
Do you know that is a hard job?
This is a new product of company this year. It's oil-free.
I think so. Why did you ask that?
This is room 504.The room is so cold.
The boat time-table is effective from the first of August till the first of November
no. I'm new here. I just moved here a few months ago.
OK. OK. You'd better tell me what he does.
It seems you have late fees.
The Chinese custom is to go to the groom's home-just the opposite.
I ’ m not kidding. Learning a language is a question of forming language habits and that takes time.
I hope my parents don ’ t try to interfere in my choice of career.
I am sure you can do better than that.
Can I answer it in Chinese?
Going to the gym tonight, Mary?
I should have known...
Is that true? But anyhow, it's none of our business, isn't it?
Ow! Don ’ t shout so loud. Calm down. Please stop shouting and sit quietly down.
Thank you, but I cannot take all the credit. Our employees have all worked very hard to increase their productivity level.
I need to take a few classes.
Really, it was nothing.
Yes, I applied with another company, but that was just to get experience in being interviewed.
We have a variety of trousers. Which one do you like best?
Yeah, I'm going to the Temple Fair with my family.
I am sorry, but I don't have one with me right now.
Maybe we can trade.Why don't you stay here and read for my exam, and I'll go drink beer?
Very good, need I help you?
I think you should be more careful next time.
I didn't sleep much last night.
I think she has her ears pierced and she definitely has a few tattoos
All right. I'll do that.
It's 1200. Room service is available 24 hours a day.
Right, sir. And please do not forget to bring a valid travel document with you when you buy the tickets.
Yes we are going towards Westminster Abbey. I can see it now! Look to your right.
Give me a dozen lemons.
I had a nightmare last night and I dreamt Arden told me that my performance fell short of his expectation. I was terrified to wake up after hearing that.
That the workshop was lit!
I don't want Macintosh. I want PC.
That is a heavy raining afternoon. I was standing under the eaves of a shop to evade the heavy rain. It's getting dark.
OK. What kind of room do you want? We have single rooms, twin rooms, double rooms and suites available on Friday.
Thank you. How much is it?
Thank you. You helped me a lot.
Not really, they just don ’ t want me living at home. My older sister did that, and she lived at home for seven years. Once she started living at home, it got harder and harder for her to move out.
I am sorry, sir. He isn't in right now. Would you like to leave a message?
What about going to Beijing?
Don't worry. We can call a cab. It'll be alright.
The Perrier and the Jim Beam. Let me have three more of each.
A raise? Son, I would love to give you a raise, but this is just not the right time.
Do I need to take a bus?
Sorry, but do not worry. I think I can fix it. Just cut a little more off the temple.
Some of them are mascots and some are symbols of power.
Hear me out. We can pool the money and give it to a family who could really use it!
We are sorry for our fault.
Using GPS I can rely on this to direct me home. Now I just need to find my E-Card to automatically open the gate and we can drive out.
And what should a secretary do during the meeting?
There's an action movie with Harrison Ford and a chick flick with Susan Abandon.
You will be able to put your clothes on as soon as I have checked the film.
You ’ d better get up, or you ’ ll be late.
Speaking of plane tickets, don't forget to check on the reservations!
have you ever considered taking one of our online courses?
Shoulder chops, Ms Chan?
We are not seeing each other any more.
Sure. And if you rent it, maybe I can help you find a roommate too.
You heard who won the election, didn ’ t you?
Not really, so long as you follow all the regulations.
I noticed that, it was not exciting as I expected, but the music was great. I'm always found Jazz. And that movie had a lot of Jazz.
Great. Do you have a few minutes right now for me to tell you a little bit more about the data management tools our company has to offer? It won't take long.
Have you found a suitable job?
She likes to golf, dance and eat foreign food.
How's business?
It was alright. I ran into Bill and we got to talking for a while. He ’ s in a bit of a jam.
He's Taipei's most famous calligraphy master! Quick! Get in line!
The cable is down right now. I am very sorry.
Don't worry. I'm not much of a dancer myself.
Today, we have invited a special guest, Prof. Yang. He will give us some advice on the legal aspects of international business. Your international legal advice is important to our business well being. Please give us some counsels on such issues as which laws govern the contract, what recourse is available for default or breach of contract by our clients or what to do if a dispute arises.
Yes. Good for you.
It seems that a relaxed atmosphere could hinder productivity.
You ’ re sure we ’ re not forgetting anything?
Here. Do you have a registration card?
When I went to see him yesterday, he looked rather pale.
I've heard about that, but I've never tried it.
OK... OK... Anyway. I will treat you as my best friend. I hope you can do the same.
I'm happy to hear that. Here is your key. Just dial 0 if you need anything.
I wonder Why.
Do you have the ' The man and the Sea ' by Ernest Hemingway?
OK. Shall we go to a bar?
That's just wrong! why don't you just quit?
You didn't tell me she was married!
She's my wife, you know.
Now.Have you ever thought of going by express bus?
I know, I know. Kill, or die, right?
Nothing, thanks. I again apologise for the misunderstanding, bye for now.
Yes. He's all nice and friendly to my face. But the second I turn around he stabs me in the back!
just after 2 am.
Yes, can you tell me where I can find a travel agency?
Hey, that was quite the presentation! Honestly, I was completely blown away by your strategy outline. I've gotta say, Alex, you really wowed me today.
Steven, are you talking to me?
I can assist you.
Who is Cindy ’ s husband?
No, thank you
Your bill was mailed already.
You need to fill out a special form to apply for unemployment benefits.
O. K. Do you have your receipt?
most some drinks have too much sugar in them.
What's wrong with heading out with Mark for vacation?
Let me see. Oh, you're at the wrong gate. Your plane leaves from Gate No. 8.
You were born in the year of the monkey?
I thought he only liked to listen!
Oh, I don't think I will buy a used sofa even it looks so attractive.
Actually it was the most interesting day I ’ Ve had so far.
The World Cup! The first match is today! It’s Mexico vs. South Africa! It’s going to be a really good match! Both teams have a very strong offense and have skilled players. I think that South Africa will probably dominate the first half since they are the host country, and all.
You have a lot to get done this morning.
the diet sodas don't have any caffeic in them, which one would you like?
Right here. It’s for that new fax machine we ’ re getting.
For a local paper in York called the York Herald. Actually, I started with them as an intern in the beginning. I was really keen on getting some experience in the journalism, and this seemed like a g
That's reasonable.
You'll be sorry if the boss finds it out. He may probably give you the bag.
Sure, I'll give you a call.
How long ago?
Is this a furry hat?
I don't think this is right.
You know that is tempting but is really not good for our fitness.
I ’ m so sorry to hear that.
Of course, sir. Will you need taxi?
Actually, I study a lot less here than I did in Taiwan! My classes are great, though. Sociology is the perfect major for me.
Have you ever climbed the mountain before?
Year! They are unreliable sometimes.
Mumm, I estimate it'll run in the neighborhood of... $ 500 per light.
He is really outrageous.
Ok. Please arrive at seven forty-five. We can only hold the table until 8,15.
Hello! Let me introduce myself. My name is Nancy.
Yes, I have those.
If you order in large lots, we'll accept the price.
I want to rent skis and boots.
I would love to be surrounded by hills and streams. They ’ re so much better to look at than concrete, rows of parked cars and tall buildings.
Most women follow fashion like sheep.They don't know any better than imitate.
What else do you want to know?
And after the varnish?
Everything is OK now.
I've got a complaint about the noise next door.
You are welcome. Please press the button when you need any help.
Man, what a freeloader. You better do something quick or he ’ ll never hit the road. After all, he ’ s got it made in the shade here.
Accepting time L / C is unusual and I've never done it before, but we could consider your request. I'll phone our company to see what they say.
perhaps that's because we hold different ideas about privacy.
I'm going to stay in the city.
Thanks. Stop here now.
Wow. I feel sorry for the Mexicans. But it's good for us.
I've really been working a lot lately.
This is the White Rose Restaurant.May I help you?
He told me that his friend's car broke down and they had to walk home.
Tom, is Jenny crying?
Yes, of course, this one costs 260 yuan.
Sure. Is today only you second visit?
What will that tell me?
How are you making out?
Yes, I'd like to know how to use the library. You know, I'm a new student here.
Would you like to clear the table then?
My friends in business circles all seem to be of the opinion that the U. S. import and export corporations have become more flexible in doing business recently.
Look! Someone is celebrating his birthday.
Don ’ t worry. See where it says, “ New User ”?
Maybe now I'll get that promotion I was hoping for.
A friend and I are planing to go out, why? what's up?
No, I didn't. Really!
I disagree with you. They don ’ t all wear the same clothes ; they ’ re definitely not all blond ; they don ’ t all own Parker fountain pens ; they don ’ t all drink Coca Cola, and they don ’ t all chew gum. I do think they all drive cars though! But that doesn ’ t have anything to do with how they look!
Just a second and I'll check the schedule.
I don't think you did, you know. My neighbor told me she saw some here only yesterday.
1,000 RIB.
He has lots of hobbies.
Do I have training opportunities?
Mr. Blake? Mr. Foster ’ s on the phone. He ’ d like to know if you can send over those training manuals?
This one fits me well but it is too expensive, can you make it a little cheaper?
I want to know if I am doing OK.
Tom Cruise may be handsome, but I think he's a bit crazy, don't you?
Hello, this is the International Student Office. My name is Leah. How may I help you?
thanks, I didn't expect the dish to be so spicy. Are you ok?
What kind would you like?
The same to you!
Of course. You completely forgot it.
Where are you going to buy one?
It is such a nice place.
I don ’ t mind if you want to.
You mean there may be credit problems?
No, they didn ’ t. you could order it from the menu. I think that lobster is too expensive to be included in the buffet.
Jenny, are you having a good time?
the concert are truly remarkable.
It's sapphire. We have only one brooch of this type. Will you try it on?
I hope not.
Why do you think it wasn ’ t higher than that?
i was pretty sad. i still hope that she'll return some day!
Who invented the electric light bulb?
Did you see the way that Brian came to work yesterday? Ever since he came back from that conference in Silicon Valley, he's been coming to work dressed in jeans and sweatshirts. It's like he's decided to make himself at home in his office. I don't know how long it'll take before the management talks to him about it.
Yes, it helps me to relax.
You ’ Ve got plenty of training and experience. I wonder if you could tell me something about your goals. Where do you see yourself ten years from now?
Just take a little off on the top and shorten the back. But please don't make it too short.
Adaptability and sense of humor.
Yes, look at the photos I took.
I'm sorry. I don't think so.
I am fed up the ready-made suit. Can you recommend me some stuff for me to make one?
That ’ s not my problem.
Hello. What can I do for you?
Sure, my credit card number is...
I am dropping off my prescription to get it filled.
I guess I never thought of that before.
Okay. I won ’ t hold you up then.
$ 60 a night.No charge for local calls on the phone or for the TV, unless you decide to watch the pay-per-view channels.
What ’ s that? Don ’ t tell me you ’ Ve still got Christmas cards to write, it usually takes my wife a month to write all of ours.
Can you describe for me, where you were sitting?
Nothing. The teacher said the only thing left was to get back all the disposable cups later.
Where should I go after I arrived at the university?
I got you. Next time. I'll preface a toast with a statement like ' I can't drink any more ' and then drink anyway.
How about this. When you finish the book. I ’ ll get the movie and watch it with you.
Yes. As a matter of fact, you can't board the plane without boarding pass.
First you must check in at Counter No. 4.
I will not rent the apartment with that leaking faucet.
Yes, I will. Thank you, Mr. White. Goodbye!
If there were any major problems, I would always notify you by phone to come in.
I would like to order some internet today.
If you have any good jobs, keep an eye for me!
Fine, sir. For how many people, please?
That's tough. What does your wife think about this?
Books in the first aisle are all best sellers.
Why not? The whole idea is superstitious.
Congratulations on your promotion.
I've already got plans, too.
What ’ s your address, your name and your phone number?
We should take a packed lunch on the journey.The food they sell on the trains is always expensive.
I'm going there tomorrow.
Yes, we can do that. We require the original Trading Contract and also the VAT Invoice and the Commodity Delivery Documents. They all need to be in duplicate.
But they are a little tight, They Pinch.
I remember your name. Wait for a moment, please. I ’ ll check it for you. Is this black one yours?
You know Ernie, it seems we both like the same artists.
Then would you like to have lunch with us?
I can see from your resume you were in charge of sales for Corporate World Unlimited from 1997 to 1999. Can you please tell me about your responsibilities?
Well, because I didn't have any credit on my phone. I used it all up this month.
it seems the department still has some money left in the budget. Do you have any suggestions how to use it before the budget is renewed?
It is 9 o'clock now.
I don't think so. I think the government should do everything it can to discourage people from smoking.
How come you are walking away?
No, as long as you can guarantee at least 15 guests, there is no extra charge.
Have you thought about what your needs are in terms of size?
Because bicycles are safer.
Well, it's only three stops from here.
Wait a moment. I will calculate it for you. Your bill comes to $ 36.
Excuse me. Can you tell me how to get to City Hall?
Yes, but I don't want my Mom to tap my phone when I call Clive.
And to drink?
I am studying international communications.
Can you briefly tell me about one of your designs?
What size do you take?
I don ’ t feel so good. I am feeling sick to my stomach.
I think it's better for me to meet new challenges in life.
I think you know already that I want to discuss the represent - ton for your alarm clocks.
How long are you going to stay there?
May I be so bold as to suggest chocolate-covered strawberries with the champagne?
OK. I will catch you later.
come on! We're traveling on our own. It won't cost too much.
Can you keep an eye on my bag, please? Nature's calling.
Really? I hope we will do much better under her guidance.
Yeah. If I leave Little Italy alive...
And would you like a manicure?
I really like the house and will pay the full asking price of three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
Yeah, let's do that.
It'll start on lst September.
that's cool. I can use the computer and the internet pretty well, but I'm a little bit slow in the latest trends of digital products.
They are in the cupboard where you keep the gravy boat and serving dishes. Just be careful because the wine glasses are also there.
Can I have this roll of film developed here?
Sure. We'd like to have Black Forest Cake for dessert.
Hello, Marsha, I haven't heard from you in a long time. I'm great, and you?
Does that mean work isn't that great?
Actually, i could you some help.Thank you so much.
Hey Jimmy. Let's go workout later today.
I'm having a hard time deciding which model is best for us.
I am afraid not. I haven't worked in an American company so far.
I don't see much difference, anyway.
Wow, that sounds pretty safe. So how do you pay? Do you need a credit card?
How much are you selling it for?
Yes, I like the color. Can I try it on?
I really like the way this house looks.
Yes. Everything is fine in the family. Don ’ t worry about the family. Just enjoy your trip. How ’ s the weather there?
Sounds a good weekend. You know it always amazes me that two people as different as you and Jo can become such close friends.
OK, can you name the items in it?
"If I hear "" Love Me Tender "" one more time, I think I'm going to go crazy! "
I pressed the emergency button! And then I stayed in the elevator waiting for the rescue.
The best would be you have a smile on your face in the interview to win a good impression of the interviewer.
I remember you said that you like China because it has cheap beers.
Do you play much tennis?
Oh, unbelievable. This was too luxurious.
Tell me about it! It's like the whole world is broiling.
15,000 Yuan, including water, but electricity and gas.
Well, that's nice I guess. So how many kids do you have?
Have we met?
I am wondering if you have a room with twin bed.
How are your parents these days?
Follow this road and turn right at the second intersection. It'll be right there.
I am still young. And I'm growing every minute.
Unfortunately, sir, it's how the computer is programmed.
And these two? They are husband and wife?
If you need any further information, please don't hesitate to ask me.
May I suggest our own hotel restaurant? It got three stars in the latest restaurant review.
As long as you don ’ t treat it better than your wife, It’s fine.
There is a reason in what you say.
Does the rent include utilities?
You mean my favorite movie of all time? I guess I ’ d have to say pretty woman.
That's not true.Most of the students and professors in the university here use Macintosh.They find it is better for writing and word-processing, and that is what students mostly do. Ma
Yes. Oh! And these two carry-ons.
No, it's a Monday.
Which one interests you, Sir?
There must have been some good news in the newspaper. I can ’ t believe that none of the news stories make you happy or excited.
Maybe I'm getting a cold.
You're welcome. I'd like you to join us for dinner again sometime.
Do you like sports, Janice?
So your country is fairly rich.
We are practically full up, but I will see. What do you want, a single room or a double one?
Please do excuse me for a moment. I've got diarrhea.
Yes. Do you have any specials today?
Oh? You hoped to get that job, didn't you?
OK, I'll find it.
Yes, there are several place available in that price range near the university. Do you have any other requirements?
It’s a big room with a king - size double bed and two single beds. You ’ Ve get also an roller-wheels.
That sounds great.
Good grief. All I did was ask you out. I am sorry.
No, I ’ m sorry, Mr. Kurt. He ’ s stepped out for a bit. Would you like me to have him call you?
Sure. Let ’ s go.
I'm Bob Brown. But I can't recall my account number.
That means they have tapered legs.
He wouldn't stop talking throughout the class.
OK, we promise to do it well.
Yes. It is really a place of interest and we have the direct flight everyday.
We came back the day before yesterday. I enjoyed myself there very much. The beach is beautiful. You should go there some day. The sun was lovely, too.
Me too, but I think we shouldn't drink too much of it, as it's not very healthy.
You'll need to make an appointment.
You'd better bring the diploma, identification card and several copies of your resume.
I can smell smoke!
Well, as they say, garbage in, garbage out. Let me correct this error, please.
Then give me a large one and an egg drop soup.
Good for you. I know many people just leave their blogs alone after the first few months.
Well he ’ s more of a man than you are ; at least he appreciates love stories.
Good. I wish I could have another vacation.
He is a dishonest man and always tells a cock and bull story.
I wanted to have a talk with you about your son.
Look at Vivian! She thinks she's the cat's meow!
I want to take them to court.
Let me take your temperature.
Welcome to IBA. Can I help you?
I hope we can continue to get support from the departments concerned.
What a thrilling trip!
What's your last word as to the date then?
Exactly, now, tell me the time.
Yeah. I met him yesterday.He ' s no longer the same young man as he was eight years ago.
Can we have two tickets for seven thirty?
I know. It'd be great if we could transfer him to a department where he doesn't have to work with people.
Hello, I would like to apply for a permit.
Let me look. Let ’ s see... they ’ Ve got one in blue, green, pink, black... and white. Here you are.
If the goods are to be transshipped from one means of transportation to another during the course of the entire voyage, it's called ' combined transportation '.
Maybe the compressor is going bad.
I'd really like to be in London, but it's the most expensive city in England to live in, so I don't know if I can afford to live there.
Of course. At what time?
Certainly. When do you want to travel?
I ’ d like to try traditional Chinese medicine. I heard it really works quite well if you know what you're doing.
Just make sure to tell me beforehand.
more and more Chinese are marrying foreigners.
How Ay clients do you have already?
If he doesn ’ t understand me, I ’ ll show him the office address on my business card.
You wanna tight, medium or naturally curly perm?
Yes, I wanted to look for some information on the company page just now. It took me almost one minute to open it. Then there is no response for any click.
Yeah, but what kit lens does this camera come with? I don ’ t want some bulky telephoto lens.
No, it's too far. Let's drive.
Any other requirements?
The sales rep had a green note pad just like yours. He said everybody at WebTracker used them.
Can I take a picture of you? Seeing is believing.
Excuse me, are cameras allowed here?
Do you want the latest editions? If your computer runs fast, I think the latest editions are better because although old editions are cheaper, they are less exciting and attractive.
So, when are you going to tell her?
No, thanks. I've really got to go now.
No, not so soon. Couldn ’ t I persuade you to stay a couple of days more?
I'll take over for a while to give you a break.
Not for now, I think, But I believe there'll be rain, so take your raincoat with you.
Probably not. It's off the Internet. What difference does it make?
No. We couldn ’ t possibly.
Yes, souvenirs. Trinkets to remember my trip by!
What are your terms of sale?
Consider yourself lucky.
Neither the kitchen nor the bathroom plumbing is working well.
Where are you feeling the pain?
Well, you can simply tell them you want to sleep, or make an agreement for a time when the room should quiet down.
I think you should make a thorough market investigation now.
I really miss the change of seasons like we have in Colorado ; but I must admit, this sure is a nice spring day.
I did a B. A. in economics.Remember?
What are your weekend arrangements?
Yes. We had a big talk with him, and he has really turned over a new leaf.
Well, we went bungee jumping when we were in Australia.
May I see your airplane ticket, passport and health certificate please?
I think you need to get brain surgery. I honestly don ’ t think you need cosmetic surgery.You look amazing.
Not from this brand, I'm afraid.
Clean up the mess first, then fit a new seal and check the valve.
no need. I think it's still plenty full. Even so, I'd rather travel by bus or train. It would cost much less than driving. Oil prices are soaring nowadays, you know.
I was thinking about taking tennis lessons. I always have an hour to spare in the afternoon. What do you think about that?
Lisa wins the first prize in the English speech contest of her college.
In a month.
It means That the first $ 2000 of any claim you make must be paid by you. The insurance policy covers any amount above that, up to the agreed limit.
Hello, Is this room service?
Don't worry. I ’ Ve got some acid here. It will help dissolve the hair down there.
Yeah.Especially when you have something urgent to do.
Sure Paula, shoot!
Is this 2517758?
why? Will those be students who are leaving?
Not yet. But do you have any experience as an assistant?
what's your favorite animal?
How much are you depositing?
I'm really fed up with Larry! He's the biggest airhead I've ever met.He always makes careless mistakes, and he's a pain to work with.
It is because of the quality.
Thanks. That would be very helpful. I ’ Ve discovered that it can take a long time to find exactly what you want. There ’ s too much information on the net.
Well, you have three hearts — lucky in love tonight. Dress up and go on a date!
All right. Just give me the ticket.
1:30 P. m. But I've got to check in at 12:30 P. m.
Ha! I'm just warming up! Please take me there now!
Does that include the service charge?
Sure, that sounds good.
Look! Allen has the mic!
Both of them speak excellent French. But I think Mary speaks German more fluently than Jones does.
It's forty-five yuan.
What a shame.
Only 2 dollars and 25 cents.
What docking station?
May I speak to Marry?
Yes, of course. This is a really wonderful party with interesting people and great food.
I can afford about $ 800 a month for rent.
Yes, but the gas and the battery both have to stay working.We can't just let the car run and run.If we do, it will die soon. Then we'll freeze.
I will have to give you store credit, Madam. If you can find something else you like in the store, you can use the credit.
I saw it in this ad for apartments in today ’ s newspaper.
Get out of here! I didn ’ t even know they were dating!
The portions here are man sized. We usually end up taking half of the meal home with us.
Okay, I'll speak to him.
No, thanks. I am very grateful that you can come to the hospital to visit me.
well, she's alright, but not really my cup of tea. What about the blond with the red dress?
That's true. Four years ' trails and hardships, joys and sorrows of life are gushing out to my mind all together. I can hardly tell whether I am joyful or gloomy at the moment when I am about to leave the campus and to start a new stage of my life.
Dude, where are we at?
Why did you lie to me in the email?
Well, your insurance covers sufficient money to replace it. So you don ’ t need to worry.
Ah, Hello. So, you are back?
Nothing special, just working. Why do you ask?
My appointment was on Monday.
Is she really?
One from each part? Lhasa, Urumqi, Harbin, shanghai, and hongkong. The capital city is Beijing, right?
What will happen if I chose a smaller car? Would the payments be the same?
Thank you, but I've never thought about it before.
Take it three times a day.
White and whole-wheat.
Have you started cleaning up your room yet?
All right. Will you wrap it for me?
OK. What are you going to have to eat?
Now that I think about it, I can see how you missed it.
That's all I'm going to get today.
It is near the university. Five minutes ' walk from your flat, I think.
Perfect.Couldn ' t be better!
He must be happy.
I invited all the colleagues in our department and also my former neighbor, Paul. He is a very good person. You should meet him.
Uh, well, no, not really, because I haven't worked in England for a long time, so I haven't taken a bus for a long time.
Would you like some cake? I made it myself.
Yes and no. I can ' t wait to go to Europe, but at the same time I am terrified.
We agree to give you a break on the price, all together a discount of 6 %. Good news is, I talked to my boss, he confirmed that if you take care of the shipping costs, we'll throw in insurance.
Here is 50 yuan.
I am not familiar with the medicine industry, and I don't think it fits me well.
That sounds good. You order the beer while I go to the bathroom. Where is the can in this place?
That's really a big change from 20 %. I really can't accept that.
I'm not sure. Medium I suppose. Maybe a little on the heavy side.
Come on, Jenny, we are heading our way to the Opera House.
Do you know that Jack got divorced last month.
Bring your ID card and fill out a form. That will be fine.
The Taj? They're a bit expensive, but they do serve large portions of very hot food.
Hello, is this the ABC company?
You have a lovely house, Jack.
No, have they had another fight?
We have trained analyzers to do quality analysis at the end of each part when we make the product. This means that no mistakes are made.
You should go to the dentist.
Of course, Diana. You'd better pay attention to the spelling when you type it.
Did you hear about Bob and Mary?
I also need to check this magazine out.
Some woman in here when I tried to register three weeks ago. She said I just had to pay a late fee.
I'll be leaving on the fifth of August for the vacation
Sometime this morning.
For how much?
yes, we are. obviously, we'd like something as cheap as possible. we've heard that there are places for 80 to 100 pounds a month.
It's great. and I ' Ve heard that listening to Mozart can make you more intelligent.
For the later deposits, you can deposit any you want. Even one Yuan is OK.
We will fine you.
Frankly speaking, I ’ m a typical Chinese workaholic. I don ’ t mind working late at night. Due to that, I tend to leave the office late.
That's a good idea. And remind them to be slow at the beginning, not to run into the railings.
Do you ever meditate or read before bedtime?
Very well, thanks, I will probably finish next week, but this is still a lot of work, I have been worked on in for six months, and i ' m so closed to end. I can feel it.
Here you go then. Have a great school year!
Anything with a lot of action, I like thrillers and chillers.
OK. Would it be all right to look at the room first?
Can you tell me where the pots and pans are?
How about your sideburns?
That may be so, but reading them is an important way to expand your knowledge.
Very well. Just take your time.
Yes, I have an overall understanding.
I'm sorry we couldn't find it, sir.
"Oops, okay. You are right. Then I can just end with "" All the best, Tracy ""."
I ’ m really glad I got a chance to talk to you before you left, Mary. Have a safe trip!
I have a special assignment coming up. Would you be interested in helping me on it?
And only that doesn't make a perfect one, you also have to pay attention to the format of the report.
We'll try one of your specials this time.
I like almost all kinds of music. But I like country music best.
Oh, my God! What do I do now? Bone head.
I'm glad you saw the reason.
No problem. I wanted to remind you that my friend is getting married next week. You're still coming to the wedding with me, right?
NO. You don't have to pay duty on personal belongings.
There is a problem in my apartment.
You are right. The special effects were amazing. And I like the fact that they created so many fantastic settings and otherworldly costumes, weapons and creatures.
Mr. Lee, I was wondering if you and your wife had plans for next Friday night?
And you can easily get a student loan from a vocational school, or from the government.
Wonderfull.Thanks a lot.
So are you officially a junior now?
Well, I believe it now, and when are they are getting married?
Can ’ t you come in and have tea now, Peter?
Not necessarily. If we use a realtor to find a house, it will be more expensive.
So you haven ’ t done much then, in Shanghai?
Well, If I were you, I would go to the police station straight away and calling.
That's right. You don't drink coffee, do you?
Secondly, you need to create a good image in a limited time.
I wrote it out for $ 150.
Could I help you on your new project?
Have you met the new girl?
I haven't been able to watch my cable for the past week.
We'd like to invite you over for dinner this Friday evening. Can you come?
You certainly deserve it. Let's celebrate!
Oh, you've got a fever. One-oh-one... time to break out the children's Tylenol.
Look! there's a Folk concert tomorrow evening. Do you Want to go?
no, it's not going to be George. I don't think it's Andy either. He is involved with the boss's sister in-law. And you know how whipped our boss is.
Yes, it has two bedrooms. That's convenient.
Sorry, here you go.
Nothing special. I had a get-together with some schoolmates at the high school, visited the Internet and read a couple of books which I had been longing for. How about yours?
I'll try. I'm under a lot of pressure right now.
Of course. I'm on it
OK, here is your change.
I want to buy a shirt.
Er, good morning, yes, er...
Just bring your laptop down here to the lobby. We're set up for wireless right here.
isn ’ t it really cold there?
I attended Suzhou University.
Does your boss pay you for the over-time work?
Yes, I think I am quite fluent in English. I got the certificate of the Secondary English Training last month.
Our representative in your country faxed a letter that you showed an interest in some of our products on display at the Oct. Exhibition there. Now we'd like to know if you have any specific requirements in mind.
You are a sensible drinker. Anyway, I ’ m not going to drink any alcohol this evening. I don ’ t ’ want another bad hangover.
What? You don ’ t know the first thing about gardening!
Yes.But I recommend you to buy pantyhose. The stockings are already out-dated.
Her standard for selecting life partner is a little higher. I can not accept that.
That's very late. Can the dentist see me now?
Look! David gives his following-comment on my first blog. He is my first visitor.
sure. I ’ m open to any reasonable suggestions.
I've only found a few openings in my field.
It's worth a shot. Maybe we'll get some luck in thinking up something for this case.
Yes, this week's issue just came in. Here it is.
Your room has twin beds, Mr.Lee. It also has a view. I am sure you will like it. This is your key. It's on the eighth floor room 801. The elevator's over there.
What is wrong with Peter? He sure looks unhappy.
Are the batteries in it made by your people?
No, I didn't.
Oh, Can you hear me OK? I said, come to the second floor.
All right. I'll tell him when he comes back.
4 o'clock.
I ’ m going to place a trial order for 1,000 units of a dozen fireworks and 500 cartons of mosquito coil incense.
I'm also going to need three pounds of chicken breasts.
I ’ d love to, but I ’ m a terrible dancer. I ’ m afraid I may step on your toes.
It's freezing.
Well, there are two Hilton Hotels around here. Which one is your destination?
Oh, the electric company, gas company and water company!
Of course not. That would be racist.
Thank you, I ’ m doing much better. I ’ Ve begun organizing everything for the funeral.
But the guidebook says a lot of the stars come here.If we are spending three days in Hollywood, I want to see at least one star.
Yes, I'm glad we've had very pleasant cooperation in the previous years. And your achievement for promoting our clothes was great in the three years.
I'm not sure. What does it look like?
Do you have any evidences?
Let me just make sure. You want to withdraw one thousand dollars.
Good. You'll feel better after you do.
Do you usually shower or take a bath?
All right. Thank you very much for your help.
Now, Miss Childs passed on your resume to me and I ’ Ve had the chance to look it over and I must say I ’ m quite impressed.
Good morning! I am a rookie in our office.
My mom is three years older than my dad, and they are like night and day.My mom is 5 footsweet and very nice, and very caring, and very cute, everybody tells her how young she looks, and how she resembles my sister, perhaps.My father is very much completely opposite that.He is a very bi 4, on a good day, 5 foot 2, I think in real life, and she is very nice.
That's the sign of wind.
20kg.Yours is not overweight. Here is your boarding pass and baggage tag.Please go to the satellite hall to wait for boarding.
Well, we can still do some window shopping, can we?
How is this one? It's the latest, made of cashmere.
Yeah, the scenery is beautiful. What's more, the air is fresh here?
And how many staff do you employ?
We'll have it for two people.
If you want to be macho, order a double shot of espresso.
As I said, it is possible, but it would be much more expensive. I think it would be at least 12000 dollars to do a complete system.
I guess. Don't you have reunions in Taiwan?
What was your major at college?
Are they expensive?
No, after you. Ladies first.
Well, it's too close to the door. Is that table reserved?
Can you believe I'm going to America?
You two are always quarrelling over little things.
Do you believe that the officer lied?
May I have your ticket and passport please?
Excuse me, can I have your passport, your immigration form and your Customs Declaration Form, please?
All right, I see. Why do you want to work for a Sino-American joint venture enterprise now?
well, this is a challenging question. I suppose I would say that I ’ m a quick learner.
Have you bought a lot of new clothes for your vacation?
Hello, I need to register for a class.
Thanks. And how are your parents?
Well, they ’ re completely different. Reading is passive, and writing is active.
Midnight is zero and when you put the minutes in, make sure that you show them with a dot followed by the minutes. Do you understand?
I have no idea there was that great of deviation between the two venues... To make our products sell, we have to take the target audience into account.
I think I can manage that. Let's see... yes, here we are.
Hello, Steven. How do you get along with your job?
Canada is north of here.
Hi, Dave. This is Zina.
You're not going to cook?
Smoking or non-smoking?
Good. Everything is done. Here is your deposit book and ID card.
I'm not sure. Let me think about it.
Thanks a lot.here.
I like sculpture, especially that form ancient rome or Greece. What time are you thinking of going? I ’ d love to go with you.
what's wrong? Can't sleep?
OK, just a moment... yes, it has arrived. The amount is 51,998 US dollars net, 12 US dollars has been deducted by the intermediary bank.
May I have two full fare tickets and one half ticket?
Really? Are you willing to recommend me for the position?
Yes, G stands for General Audiences, PG means Parental Guidance suggested, R is restricted to audiences under 18 and X means explicit content.
I'll log in to the Internet to know about you. I know your address.
Nani Book Store. How can I help you?
I'm in Advanced One. Who's your teacher?
Of course I know that. But don't you notice that the house price is skyrocketing?
Me, too. What did you have in mind?
What places does the tour include?
Rise and shine, sleepyhead.
No, so it's usually boring to join my friends in the afternoon at a regular coffee shop.
There we go! I got the blood that I needed.
What shall we do now?
The heroin may not be attractive. I like the story, though.
Can you manage English conversation?
Yes, they were lucky.
I don't have any idea what to cook.
What concoction are you making?
I have no idea what you ’ re talking about. The only sporting event we watch at home is the Super Bowl.
Thank you very much. I really had a good time.
Okay, anything else I can get you?
But what if something happened to them? What would happen to my money?
Sure. Does he know where to call you?
What is the telephone number there?
What's the tattoo on her foot like?
You are welcome. Have a safe trip.
This is Tim. Hunter from Hunter industries.
What can you expect? Not that good.
I'm so tired! I don't know how I'm going to make it through this lecture.
I ’ m sure of that. There ’ s enough food here to feed an army!
I need to know about the fees.
My candidate is probably the most intelligent.
I was under the speed limit. I was going 35, when the speed limit was 40.
I'll go home and get Sara's number. I'll call her first myself.
Have you been on the bus for a while?
That's nice, but tell me what she looks like.
What are you so excited about?
She's probably just excited about her new job. You should give her some time. It would be a shame to lose such a good friend.
No I'm afraid not. I'm meeting Ruth then. How about the fourteenth in the morning?
Really? Do you like it?
I especially like this flowery skirts. My fiancee will look very elegant in this.
I appreciate your effort very much. The coffee break is over ; it's about time we set to work.
Good morning. I ’ d like to book a room for Friday night and Saturday night.
This way please. We have a full range of products from cosmetics to skin cleansers.
Then, let me check. For the large quantity you ask, considering the cost of raw materials, I think 13 dollar is our bottom line. And I can assure you this is the lowest price in the market in nowadays.
Then, is the machine broken or...
Oh it was really good. Do you know, he ’ s the nicest boss I ’ Ve had here.
Could you please tell me your phone number, so we'll give you a ring as soon as the remittance has arrived?
Now Mr. Tylor's on the line. Go ahead, please.
What would you like to have in your breakfast, bread, egg or sandwiches?
I expected that something might get broken. That doesn ’ t bother me. That spilled drink won ’ t leave a stain, will it?
Well, I guess I just wasn ’ t paying attention to the speedometer.
Yes, we just got it and it is fabulous. Well, first you have to turn this switch on.
Well, I nearly always get up at dawn. I don ’ t like sleeping in late. The days are longer in summer than in winter, so I get up in summer. I usually do some exercise when I get up.
It wasn't me.
I missed a few classes ; I need to make sure I come to school on a regular basis.
You're going to kick me out over this?
Hello, can I start you off with anything to drink?
I ’ Ve got a few classical music CD ’ s. I should follow your lead and increase my brain power.
We ’ Ve still got a lot of time before we have to start running.
Why you are so crazy about Beijing Opera? It's so boring.
I ’ m going to Hainan.
Thank you! My wife likes cooking very much.
That's where it is.
I think you'd better have a further exam, and before the result comes out, try to relax yourself and take the medicine before you sleep. It will help you to kill the pain and make you sleep well.
Like that Rastafarian over there? You mean dreadlocks? You crazy! That'll take way too long.
I'm totally vibing with this scientists.
That ’ s all right.
I prefered working with other colleagues when I worked in my previous company. I think teamwork and cooperation are very important. No matter how competent he or she is in a company, he can't do without them.
How long will it take to learn English? Will I be able to take other courses next semester or will English take up all of my time?
Mmm, it is reasonable. Look at this set of table wear, it is so beautiful!
I am sorry.sir. Someone will there in a moment.
traveling, swimming, going to the cinema. And you?
3.00 Yuan.
What are you basing this information on?
It washes the solvent off all the metal parts - the blades, trays etc. - and then sends it back into the system.
What's the price? I hope you'll quote us favorably.
You know the sales figure shows that the prediction has not achieved.
Yes, thank you. I've already been helping myself.
It must come from the bakery on the corner.They are baking cookies. Their cookies are very popular in town.
I think you ’ Ve done a very good job. As least as good as a professional would do. Perhaps I can convince you to redo my bathroom?
You talked like the Terminator for two months? Wow, I think you liked that movie even more than I liked ' Titanic. ' Why did you like ' Terminator ' so much?
Your entire test history is on the site. You can compare your results from other years.
I know. I know. I'm really sorry. I lost my bag.
How do you feel what you have done? Did you meet our goals?
Gosh sir, thank you, sir! I had no idea there were any positions opening up in our department.
I don't know him, but I think my sister does.
And where would you get a cup of cappuccino?
What channel did you watch last night?
Just breathe deeply when you feel yourself getting upset.
Is it true that products of high value such as watches, jewels and luxury clothing items are often subject to pilferage?
Hi, I am Liu Ming. I am calling to tell you that I have got the job.
My god, it's such a lovely lake! The lake has a water surface of 56 square kilometers.
Yes. Is that so important?
To tell you the truth, a letter of credit would increase the cost of my import. When I open a letter of credit with a bank, I have to pay a deposit. That'll tie up my money and increase my cost.
household appliance don ’ t seem to last for a long time nowadays.
We are all the same the first time we travel overseas. You guys have a nice trip.
Excuse me, do you serve breakfast here?
I'm sorry to have bothered you.
Thanks.It ' s comfortable.Well, how much is it, please?
Guess what! I know something you don't know!
Yes. I am capable of speaking English smoothly. I have been learning English for years.
First of all, I need you to do the drying up. I ’ m almost finished the washing up. I ’ m going to clean the cooker when I finish.
We've never expected that Shanghai is such a big metropolis, same as New York city. David, would it be a good idea to rent a car here? I've got an international driver's license with a pretty good record in the States.
Fine, I'll take 10,000 RIB, please.
Mark. Where have you been? I ’ Ve been calling you all morning.
176 Wooden Street East.
Let me see. Did you change anything on your computer?
This little wooden stick is called a tee.
Yes. The government has limited funds and must show that it is using the money responsibly
Where's my pencil?
Did she accept it?
Is that all I can do for you today?
Oh no. I broke your vase accidentally.
Gramercy Tavern, eh? I think I've heard of that before. Call to get us a table, okay?
Yes. I'll be with you in a second. Yes, sir? What is the problem?
All right. Keep you receipt. If something comes up, you can show it to us and we will give you a refund.
Yes. It's so strange that he slept all the time after taking the pills.
Well, how do I put this? France is a terrible team.
You're, going to be very busy.
I think a regular visitor's visa should suffice. With this visa, you can stay in the United States for up to 90 days.
Good morning, sir.Can I help you?
Shall we have a rest here? I am tired out.
I'd prefer the filet, but the porterhouse will do.
Saint Jude-he's the saint of lost causes. Like my cousin, Anna, who can't stop getting pregnant. She's a lost cause.
OK. We can supply you a loan. How much do you want to loan?
Linda, I just wanted to say that I had a wonderful evening with you last Friday.
Really, mmmm. Arm, well, could you perhaps tell me a little about yourself?
All right. I will take a room for a week. Here is my passport.
Not bad, thanks.
So then I can't use my phone if I'm on the internet?
My husband said he had a credit card. Do you accept credit card?
Above all, I have learned that what is good for the company is good for me. So I follow the instructions strictly and always keep my boss informed.
I wouldn't mind having one myself...
Yes, there're some samples in our office and you can take some to study it. Besides, you see, in recent years, we've visited a diversity of factory buildings all over the world and we hope that our building is the perfect match of advanced technology and attractiveness.
Wow, what a cool car! The styling of this car really appeals to me.
I need a lot of help in this area.
I think so. Blue is still very fashionable at the moment.
That is no problem at all. Isabel ’ s is having a clearance sale, and today is the last day. You don't want to miss such a good chance, do you?
That's a very good question. Choosing proper courses and effectively planning a college schedule is very important to the progress toward your educational goal. In order to do these wisely and effectively, you should consult with a Program Adviser or Academic Counselor.
Why are you going there?
Her new girlfriend is a far cry from Ann. She is like a breath of fresh air.
Thank you for you help.
No, you get those. I ’ ll go and get the fruits, vegetables, milk, butter, and eggs, you get the rest.
Around 12:00.
You're the sales manager, but our sales didn't go up.
Wonderful. That's just what I expect, where is my first place if I go there?
Some resolutions? That's a wonderful idea, but I have no idea yet. How about you?
I hope you enjoy your stay with us.
Look, nice fresh cherries! They are ripe and soft. I'll take some.
Billy, you are late again.
I don ’ t have that much today.
That's why I still have very high hopes for the team. Now that the tournament has proceeded into the knock-out stage, the Germans will probably make it through to the finals.
You are a pessimist.
So, we could try that restaurant that was recommended in the guidebook. Then we could go to a club. We haven ’ t been to one for ages.
I couldn't careless.
I see, sir. For a gentleman of your size I would recommend a single-breasted jacket as it does tend to make one look a little slimmer. Just let me take your measurements, Let's see, neck 41cm, chest 110cm, wait 120cm and inside leg 70cm. You do have short legs, sir.
Can you be serious for a moment, we've been dating for 6 months now, I really like you. I'd like to take a relationship to the next level.
For accounting system and things like that, you mean?
Did you play football with other children?
I'd love to go out with you, but I'm sorry I'm busy tonight, but I'd like a rain check.
We celebrate it on the first Sunday after a full moon on or after the 21st of March.
Here ’ s your change.
Helen, this is not like your own bathroom. Just leave it to the cleaners, okay?
This should go out as an intra-office memorandum to all employees by this afternoon.Are you ready?
You can ask the guests to help. My guests usually insist on doing the washing up. I just have to remind them where everything goes.
OK, Let me see. I suppose we must strengthen our promotion, because our brand is still new to some consumers. Maybe we should start our advertising program with our local and overseas distributors simultaneously, because they stand on a better position for selecting the best ways to advertise in market places. Besides, the advertisement fund can encourage them to spend more attention on advertising our products.
Starting salary is $ 150 a week-plus commissions, of course.
OK! I shall.
It is $ 200 per night.
We ’ re starting at 12:00 and it ’ ll go on for the rest of the afternoon.
It looks like our company trip will have to be canceled because of the typhoon.
Good afternoon Miss.Are there plane tickets to San Francisco on the day after tomorrow?
I think that place is Lourdes. There are many stories of people being healed after visiting there.
You got it! Just last night I made USD 150!
It is kind of strange though, to have snow in April, and so much of it.
I'll call you so we can set that up.
Oh, thank you.You are so sweet!
I am just waiting for my friends. It won't be long.
What a large building. Can we visit by ourselves?
Oh, not too bad, but I've got to stay in bed.
I've heard of that one. It was also his swan song.
Are there any scenic spots nearby?
Wow, the cheer-section is coming. The music is so fantastic.
Never mind, just read as far as you can.
Not bad. It really is great to see you again. W here have you been?
Well, I'm so glad to hear that she's doing well.
Fish with noodles, please.
it's the gradual rise in the earth's temperature.
What sizes do you need?
No problem. In the meantime, don't try to worry so much. You'll get through this.
But, you work with her everyday.
Let's go out and enjoy the fresh air.
Thanks. Have you got any light bulbs?
You are in luck. The traffic is not heavy today.
Yeah, everyday. And there ’ s only one choice. All the other buses are going the other direction.
When's he coming?
Hello! Do you have a place where I can exercise?
Could you feel my forehead and check to see if I have a fever?
Does everyone who gets laid off get to collect unemployment?
They are all leather. How do they feel?
45 yuan? It is too much, Are you sure?
Thanks. I'm glad that I did a good job.
Don't worry. The bus tour is really worth while. You can enjoy the whole city in a single day.
There's no secret at all. The only thing for you to do is to practice more. You will succeed.
So you asked him about the girl who called?
I jogged up and down the beach and played volleyball. You know I never realized how hard it is to run on sand. I couldn ’ t get through a whole game before I had to sit down.
Well, I'm meeting some American friends next weekend.
These are the various kinds of packing for pliers. Normally, we have three types of packing
Were you speeding when you got pulled over?
The doctors and the nurses will help you. And I will be waiting for you right here, praying for you and our baby.
Yes, it looks interesting.
Yeah. They promised to stick together forever when they were young.
I will give a call.
Really? Wow, it is great.
I like to be paid more than that. Hopefully, 120,000 Yuan per year.
White Rose Restaurant. Good afternoon! Can I help you?
I really don't know what to buy.
What? Beg your pardon.
Sorry, we have two Smiths, Robert Smith and James Smith, which one would you like to speak to?
It's FOB Shanghai.
You know, Mary, I feel we meet somewhere before. Where were you born?
You said it! I can't believe he lasted as long as he did.
If they are just like us, they are not middle-aged.
You can choose one type to make it as your background, and then find a music player and put your favorite songs into it, so your visitors can enjoy the music after entering into your zone.
Do you? Dad is in the study.
All right. Shall I check the oil?
I know, but these are the figures that we came up with.
What country produces them?
The survey said that the low, income groups eat more junk food on a daily basis.
Please, honey, I have made proposals to you fifteen times.
The skin packing is the most advanced packing for this product in the world market. It catches the eyes and can help push sales.
$ 15.And for a hard one, only $ 6.
So after you noted the hours, starting at zero which is midnight, you just write down the minutes as a dot followed by minutes. Get it?
That happens a lot in non-English speaking countries.
yes, I have. I had to get a project finished. It’s done now, so I can relax a little.
Oh. That dress doesn't exactly match the job.
OK. Let's go
I'd like to order a restock on my minibar.
Would you like cream or sugar in your coffee?
No later than tomorrow.
At 2 PM, give a presentation here with the press. At four o ’ clock sharp, have dinner with Mr. Smith, manager of NCC.
All right. What's the problem?
I would like to deposit a check.
I think you'll enjoy the food.
For me, this would be having good relationships with my family members. My family has always been very close knit, and we still spend a lot of time together.
Then how can I make the appointment?
Yes, where's the meat counter?
I think it's dangerous. What if I can't turn it off?
George, did you remember to buy the book?
Yes. If she doesn't believe it, Christmas won't be so exciting to her.
Just let me sleep five more minutes.
You can wash the vegetables and cut the chicken and I'll make dinner!
Well, that's reasonable. I'll take it.
Cool. So are you near-sighted or far-sighted?
Every fifteen minutes.
I have eight years of experience working in the IT industry. For the past two years, I have been working as a project manager for a dotcom. I am also MI certified. I'm looking for a team environment where I can join the excitement of building a company.
Tom is making so much noise. I have not a bit of peace and quiet all evening.
I would like to plead not guilty.
How can a business maximise revenues?
Yes, a lot more. If you go there just before the beginning of the fall's semester, you can get your student ID and social security number there. They will keep your documents up-to-date. They will offer an orientation program for new comers. They will also help you contact your department and registration office.
I'll never get over it. Oh, Harry, it was all so unnecessary. That man!! How could he do this to us after we'd put him up?
How are the clubs different in Japan than in London?
No, usually I get my films developed at a photo studio, but I make my own enlargements.
Sure. We can deliver it to your home.
We don't have them here, I'm afraid. Ginkgo trees grow well only in cold weather.
I would like to ask for one day off next week. Do you think the manager will agree? I know it is the busy time for our company, but I do have some important things to handle.
I'm totally vibing with this doctors.
And what does your husband do?
Good evening, sir. What's your pleasure this evening? Your usual?
Well, it was. But the contractor ’ s just told me he ’ s not going to be able to finish by the twentieth, as planned.
Yes, I think I did. It has to be one of your maids who took it. I want my necklace back.
Not too serious. But he gave me a strict diet to help bring it down.
I'd like to speak to someone in your Accounts Department, please.
Oops. Well, wait for a while. We'll get it done quickly.
I ’ m just looking at this map of the world. I ’ m preparing for a geography class.
do you think that there's life on other planets?
Everything on it?
It ’ ll only take me a minute to complete your transaction.
Let's check it out. There'll be a $ 45 charge to check it over. If you fix it with us, we'll include the $ 45 into your repair.
Oh, come on.You ' Ve just started.
I'm a back-packer from America.
what else did you see?
Ok. I ‘ l l pick you up at 6 o ’ clock.
A dessert sounds nice.
Good morning, May. Good girl, you are reading English books again.
It's probably jet lag.
Hey, sis. You know me, if I don't like everything on the menu, I don't go back to the restaurant!
I feel like going for a drink, it's been a long day.
Sure I would.
Really? I've been smoking for over a year now.
You two are so health-conscious!
You mean you can read and write both of them?
Well, it may not be that simple. Not everyone likes public transport.
I want to give a gift that is really meaningful.
Oh, my son is an American citizen. We want to live together in the future.
So it's like you want me to be your eyes and ears into the industry. I can do that, provided the company I'm working for isn't hurt.
That's right. If sick days were mandatory, sick people would stay home. We wouldn't have these company-wide epidemics.
You can call the Employment Development Office and request a form.
Engaged.Oh, dear! Could you tell her it's a long-distance call?
Bob is retiring, wow... that's news to me, I had no idea Bob was that old, retirement's still sixty-five, right?
Yes, I'll have a boiled egg with toast and orange juice, please.
What ’ s wrong with her?
And who ’ s the man in the green beside her?
I just cann't believe my ears!
Well, could you change them too? The dollars, I want to change them into Swiss francs.
9:25 on Platform 12, Track B.
Yes, I tried it and I quite liked it.
You are kidding, but she's so helpful.
I am calling to tell you that the interview for you is in our company on Monday morning at 8: 00.
I ’ m not a Christian. I just want to know why Americans believe that sort of thing.
I will have fun.
Could you tell me when it will be back on?
It's a little bit tight.
It was funny.
Does it have automatic transmission?.
What kind of document is an invoice?
oh my, no internet access is killing me.
Good luck. I hope someone can help you.
How do I get to King's Cross?
Then what kind of product can fade freckles?
Excuse me, I'm looking for your English textbooks.
Why? We just got here.
I'll have supper with my girlfriend and go shopping. What about you?
I ’ d like to withdraw some money from my account.
Yes, he is.
Excuse me, is this the right counter for express mail?
A twin room, please.
Yes. I ’ m looking for a winter jacket.
Yes, we are thinking of placing an order. However we would like to know what kinds of machines are available for export and in addition your sales terms, including mode of payment, discount and possible date of delivery.
Oh, man! I can't believe it. A slam dunk!
Could you take a slight pay decrease for a chance to move forward?
Good afternoon, passport and arrival card please.
Not a single email until now? it's already twelve o'clock. I can't believe it!
That's a great idea. Show me the Barbie dolls.
Right.How are you going to spend your weekend?
Yes. Sometimes I can notice a constriction in the chest and shortness of breath after a fit of sneezing. And I often suffer from a running nose with a profuse watery discharge.
Yes, here you are. These tablets are very effective.
I plan to emigrate to Canada.
Wow, what is in this chicken dish?
You already finished off everything, sir?
That's pretty bad.
Well, yes. I ’ ll give him the medicine too.
And the ball went through her window? That's not as bad as last time.
Wow! What's the hold up?
OK. Come with me, please.
150 a month.
Best wishes for you.
How long has she lived there?
I do. Right now I have it protected up to 30 below zero.
Ok. Excuse me, what's this charge for?
Will you ask him to call me collect when he ’ s back?
About a mile and a half.
Yes, this little boat gets up a fine speed, and I think we'll soon get to the land.
Outlets usually give you great deals.
Yes, it is, isn't it? A bit too light, really. What make have you got?
There are nine cockroaches in my room. I don't have time for your disbelief!
I've never taken this bus, but I think it's the right one.
Yes, I can't sleep well every night.
What do they like or dislike. What languages do they speak, what religions do they follow.
I see. Thanks a lot.
not for a while, but we could watch an old one on the internet so I can explain the game to you.
That's not a good excuse.
It's on the second floor. May I join you?
Yes, it's definitely a growing business.
It's my pleasure. What would you like to drink, milk, tea, coffee, orange juice or iced water?
Charge it to whatever account you like.
Then how about a salesman?
Yes. How about going out and enjoying the sunshine on the grass?
Yes, they have a good reputation for fairness.
I really don't think this weather will last.
I'll wait right here for you Superman.
I can ’ t believe it! I guess I ’ ll be here until ten again tonight!
I wonder if the municipal government will take some preventive measures.
Excuse me, could you do me a favor?
Of course, just fill out this form and let me know when you are finished.
I have finished. We can go now.
Hold on! What's the big hurry?
Closed? The clerk told me I could come back and register any time during the first week of classes.
Ok. Take care. I hope you have a good journey.
Don't worry. My friend says he can always arrange his schedule around your schedule.
Mark? I need that file you took yesterday.
Right here. I'll do it for you. ( Three minutes later ) Your car's ready.
Grandpa, this seat is for you, for you are the eldest person here and also it's your birthday today.
Good morning. What can I do for you, sir?
Don't mention it. Good luck. You're going to need it.
I know. Maybe you will get the air if you go against her.
Next please. Hello. How can I help you?
Do you know where you want to transfer to?
This is 911.
The oceans and landscapes all influence our climate.
Would you recommend some places for sightseeing?
I bet they love it really. Sure, they complain about it, but that just gets them more publicity, doesn ’ t it?
Yes. It says it will be sunny all day. No sign of rain at all.This is your father's favorite sausage. Sandwiches for you and Daniel.
Actually It’s a common practice to overbook, as passengers often don ’ t take their flight as scheduled. Most of the time there is no problem but today, more passengers arrived than we have seats ,
I have a high fever and a bad headache.
Let me see. Yes, they are perfectly matched!
What about a green tea or perhaps a jasmine tea?
Too many. I will just give you one example, Huangguoshu Falls, the largest waler-fall in China.
She's got a gorgeous complexion with a few freckles on her nose.
Paul, can I set up a time with you to go over the training manual?
What time am I supposed to pick you up?
And here's your change. Please check if it is correct.
Could I meet with you to discuss the project?
What? You mean strap myself to a flimsy kite? No, thank you! Next!
Yes, please. That would be a great help. Are you sure you don ’ t mind?
It's a pleasure. Thanks for calling Lincoln Bank.
Someone robbed my apartment last week. The robber took $ 550.
Hi, I'm here to check in.
You could choose the roasted vegetable and garlic pizza or the goat cheese and candied walnut salad.
I think I'm your lucky fellow.
I am counting on being able to get a good job.
Will you lose all your files?
You're quite right.But many Japanese learners begin with smiles on their faces and end up with tears in their eyes.
I'm so hungry. Shall we go eat now, Rick?
Yes, that one is very nice.
Hi, Bob! How are you doing?
Well, that depends on the rate. How much is the RIB trading at today?
By the end of next week.
Don ’ t worry about them. They ’ re very responsible. Besides, there are many people there and there ’ s lifeguard employed by the hotel. Waiter! Could I have another drink pleas? Thank you. So, what shall we do this evening?
Why? It's brand new, and it's perfect on you.
Bob returned from Japan last week. You know that?
Do you mean that I have to buy it at current price?
Maybe there's something wrong with the program.
Has she given out a lot of invitations yet?
There ’ s a leaking faucet in the sink.
Cool! Well, let's go over there to join mom. I want to tell her all about the special pests-killing method.
That's a good idea. I think I'll join you.
I think some Chinese wone marry foreigners for money while others just want to live abroad. There is no true love between them.
As a trial order, I'll take 5,000 dozen this time.
I ’ m sorry, sir. Smoking is not permitted in this area.
I need to save the rest.
I can ’ t think of where to go.
She might do well. Everyone seems to like her.
What kind of performance? A lion dance?
OK! Our company is very interested in the tender. I am sure that we will do our best to win the bidding in building the factory.
Didn't you learn that red means stop?
If you don't mind paying a little extra, it's absolutely no problem.
Yes, I know. But it can't be helped. It's been a pretty slow month and I just don't have enough cash to refurnish the whole house.
Both my items will fit under the seat or in the overhead bin.
All these say a lot for their characters.
I'm glad we're meeting today. Thank you.
Well, in that case, we can take you hang gliding with one of our experienced instructors. It’s the closest you can get to flying.
So where is this mystery restaurant that we are going to?
When do you start school?
How many miles to go?
Here is your valuable. Is that right?
Couple times a week. How about you?
What if it's broken?
Great. What about having a formal interview on Monday next week?
Just think Bill Gates, those inventions are as important as the windows system.
Where can I park my car?
Yes, yes. It's all here. There you go. I'm not sure if I need any other proof or guarantee to get this loan, do I?
Could you hold the line, please? I will check out our room availability for those days... Yes. we have a few vacancies next weekend. We have double rooms, suites and deluxe suites in Japanese, Roman. French and presidential styles, which one do you like best?
I've never counted.
I am competent in using Word, Excel, Windows and other commonly used softwares.
Are you crazy?
Do you want to bet?
It must be my special touch. I think bargaining is in my blood!
That sounds perfect. Do you think I can get some highlights today, too? I've always wanted red.
Just a moment, I'm coming. ( ten minutes later ). Now, what would you like?
I don ’ t have one. I prefer to buy shares. My bank also provides a share trading service. It’s cheap and easy to use.
Sure, a studio would be fine.
Boy! What a beauty! I fall in love with her at the first sight.
What's this? It smells fragrant.
I'll have it if you insist.
Yes. The drinks are very good! I'm Paul, by the way.
Here you are, sucker!
But this is how I like them, Mum. They ’ re just beginning to look right.
Okay, what time is my meeting in London?
That's exactly like my wife. She spends at least two hours a day on the computers discussing things ranging from stock prices to soft-ware standards.
Here's your change, 50 Yuan. Welcome back again.
I wouldn't call myself outgoing. I used to be very shy when I was little, and it seems that I get a little more relaxed a-round people year after year, and have more fun in groups.
Football.It ' s a very exciting game, because it keeps you alert, and I also enjoying the team spirit of football.
Can I reserve a hotel room?
Mr. Smith, this is your schedule.
that's my favourite. Do you want to have some wine or beer?
No, France isn't very mountainous. But it does contain the Pyrenees, a large mountain range with high peaks and deep canyons. What kind of Climate does Japan have?
Your room number is 210. The bellboy will show you the way there. I hope you enjoy your stay.
I think so.But before I apply, could you tell me more about the work?
How much are you planning to buy?
Tomorrow afternoon. Um... When do you think I can come and see him tomorrow afternoon?
well, if you can wait until tomorrow night, I'll go with you then.
Do you think your English is good enough to do desk work?
I did the same. I spent hours yesterday evening wrapping presents. I hope I didn ’ t forget to buy anyone something!
The significance of understanding the nuance and distinctions of foreign customs and business practices are a continual challenge for global entrepreneurs and trader. Despite many countries accession to TO membership, trade and investment frictions are still predominant among existing membership. However, these frictions will be better managed under the TO trade rules and the organization's dispute settlement mechanism.
It will leave at 3:00 p. m.
Yeah, that sounds delicious.
Oh, he wants to practice his language skills, too.
Nine is good. See you on Saturday!
We appreciate your help.
Fine, thank you very much.
It has been 12 years since it was founded in 1998.
Are you taking my apartment away?
Thank you. See you tomorrow.
Have you made a reservation, ladies?
Todd, good to hear from you!
Of course it counts. What kind of work did you do there?
Yeah, I love horror movies. Would you like to go with me tomorrow?
It's great! Where did you get the CD?
I still have a question to ask you.
You can have more than 1 key if you'd like, but we must have signature cards for each box.
I'm afraid two days isn't enough for you to see all the places of interest.
How much was it supposed to be?
I'm afraid that he can't, Mr Croft. Can't you wait till this afternoon?
I have an electric toothbrush.
Sure. Let's see it.
That would work, but don't let it happen again.
Really? Is it tiring?
Yeah, I know that. But at those places. the prices they ask you are ridiculously high, and if you don't bargain hard, you will get ripped-off.
Yes, the same as the one we have. And we also need some small articles in the office, such as pens, clips, erasers and sticky notes.
You've just scratched my car. Oh, God, a paint was scratched off.
This city is full of jerks.
How dare you say that? What they do is just for our good.
Hi, Lilly, It’s so nice to see you again.
Oh, I like the bamboo design. What is this?
Yes, we have a big tree this year. I bought the decorations at the five-and-tencent store yesterday. Do you want to come and see it?
Now that's more like it! Bananas have lots of potassium, too!
It says ' Keep off the grass! '
Yes, Jane says they will go to China.
We've had a few problems. One of the bolts has worked loose and a blade has snapped off.
You're cold because the wind is blowing into your open collar. It's not because your jacket isn't thick enough.
It would be better for the environment, too.
I will choose the tonic.
China National Textiles Import and Export Corporation
But it must have been only a coincidence. That's the only way superstition wins over science.
it's hard to say. While dogs are more affectionate, cats are much easier to take care of.
I never understand why these shops have so much liquor.
I like listening to the classical music.
really? I thought you hated shopping?
Excuse me. Could you slow down a little? I couldn't catch you.
Well, your scores show that you could do a little better. What do you think you could improve on?
Is it a long ride to Beijing Library?
It will for me. Then I can do all the things I want to do.
That's disgusting.
Half past 11.
I ’ ll take that suggestion too. How about the content?
You didn't?
That was a beautiful car. It’s a new car, but It’s totaled.
What other features are listed?
I would love it if it wasn't always so unpredictable.
Have you worked in a computer company before?
I think the starting salary for a salesperson is between 1,500 - 2,000 Yuan. But the specific number will be determined according to your sales.
Hold the line, please. (... ) All right. Your seat is confirmed, Mr. Adams. You'll be arriving in Buenos Aires at 4 o'clock p. m. local time.
50 dollars. That's too much.
Hello, Pauline ’ s Furniture Store, Faye speaking. How may I help you?
You look great! How do you stay in such good shape?
OK. There are five people in my family, Father, mother, elder brother, younger sister and I.
Who will sing in the show?
Oh dear, Miss, you are soaked! Wow, it's really raining heavily outside.
I think It’s over five meters long. I can ’ t remember exactly. It has a maximum speed of over 200 kilometers an hour.
It usually gets here at noon on Tuesday, which is tomorrow.
Okay, I'll pick you up at eight o'clock.
Yes, it's nice and bright.
How was your day?
Which day would suit you?
Because you don't want to smell bad.
It's time to go. Are you ready?
But are the public schools good everywhere?
To my regret, we failed to cover contamination. This is an unfortunate oversight on our part and a lesson to us.
Can I have the menu, please?
Well, I am how much will that cost?
Can I have a glass of wine now and then?
What! I resent that!
Well, it's a fruit with a big seed in it.
What's you opinion?
yeah. Maybe we can change to another channel. what about the sports channel? Let's see if there's a game on.
Yes. I want to make a remittance to New Delhi.
Thay are coming back to narrow the gap.
Yeah, yeah, I know what I selected. Just gimme my money!
Is it so easy? I never experienced this. Can you tell me something about it?
OK. What about going to the movies on Friday night?
Good! Maybe Malia would like to go in with us on this gift.
But we have to work tomorrow.
I'm looking for information on tropical fish.
Sure. What do you know about the Olympic Games on the past? For example, do you know where and when the first Olympic Games were held in the ancient times?
What kinds of meat are most popular in your country?
What was the reason?
Did you hear how cold it got last night?
I was hoping that the apartment on Main Street was still available.
Hey, the same to you!
OK. What should I do if I want to draw my money before maturity date for an urgent use?
Oh, look, what's happened to Jack? He sat down.
How does it feel to be in charge of so much money?
There are so many eating utensils on the table. Which ones do I use first?
an mp4 player? why don't you buy a new cell phone? You can find an mp4 player inside any of the latest cell phones.
Ten hundreds and Ten Twenties and the rest of small changes please.
I'll have my beef well-done, please. By the way, don't we have soup tonight?
I sure did!
I ’ m going to paint it.
I ’ m terribly sorry to cause you so much trouble.
It wasn't enough, because I'm hungry again.
By the way, how many days do we work every week?
Okay, Mr. Lee. This is just a routine check. Would you mind opening the bag for me?
You mean this is going to be a regular thing?
absolutely. It is said that they serve 3,000 ducks every day.
How many courses do you have for this semester?
I hear little Bob has recovered.
No problem. Do you need the OHP?
Maybe you can teach Lulu some English words.
I'm wondering if anyone has turned in a train ticket. I just lost my ticket for Beijing tonight.
Obviously, it depends on what I'm cooking, but I'd say it generally takes about one and a half hours.
I wouldn ’ t miss it for the world! It’s sure to be fun. She ’ s invited a lot of people. Do you think everyone will be able to get into her house?
Don't worry about it. It's not new, it already has a few scratches. Did you get hurt?
OK. Now you dial 9 on the keypad. Do you hear the tone change?
Yes. Can you show me the menu, please?
It ’ ll just take me a moment to cancel your account.
Great, how are you?
I started writing margin articles for fun, and eventually was asked to write a book, so I was pretty lucky.
Twenty five yuan is a little expensive.
Two tickets, please.
About fifteen minutes. It's not far.Are you a stranger in New York?
How do you usually spend your leisure time? I mean, do you have any special interests out of your job?
Don't mention it.Don ' t forget to take your daughter along next time.
Well, the best I can do is to lower the price by 5 percent if you are willing to pay 90 % cash of front and 10 % on delivery. That is our best offer.
It’s very simple. Men shake hands, women and children don ’ t.
Are you going to continue washing your clothes here for a while?
What's wrong with it?
Sir, your dish will take 5 minutes to prepare. While waiting, would you like anything to drink?
Cindy, how come nearly all the prime-time TV shows are comedies?
That's basically it.
Yes. She dressed with an individual flair. I rather envy her.
What sports do you think women excel at most?
Look at him, he's buff.
Is it my choice as to who inspects this house?
We all know that. Her husband always make a fuss of her.
Can you hold it for me?
I see, sir.Those two ladies in front of your room did the same thing twenty minutes ago.
I appreciate the offer. I will come on time next Monday. See you then!
Yeah. He's been sitting in his room everyday for the last 4 days.
Keep your fingers crossed. She'll bring home the bacon.
Of course, I designed a more powerful gasoline engine, which greatly increased the speed of limousines.
Do you know which stop we get off at?
We gather together to encourage each other, because we have common beliefs. We come together and call it church.
Two. French and Spanish.
Yes, it's very interesting.
Yes. Does the checking account come with a debit card?
Well, it is not going to happen so soon, I guess.
It's my geography, sir.The Map of Africa you set us.
I'm fine, Katherine. I just stayed up late last night working on my Chinese.
yeah, I'm glad that we didn't have to wait long. I'm starving!
Good evening, sir, and welcome to Chez Attitude.
They'll be done before the end of the week.
Hey, that ’ s a very nice hairdo you ’ re wearing!
Pure gold ones, please.
Did you have any difficulty getting along with fellow students or teachers?
Well, the file is wrong. I was at a great concert that night.
Okay. I ’ ll bring them in tomorrow for sure.
Yes. It's very convenient and the price is even lower.
Did you call the apartment management yet?
Until this investigation is finished, will I have to pay for the charge?
Ahahah! What is that thing on your couch! It just moved!
Good afternoon. What can I do for you?
that's a good idea. Let's discuss after work.
Come on. Put the gun down.
Whatever meal that you plan on making.
Well, I will try.
Okay. Follow me please.
That's true. You know, some husbands and wives don't even live in the same city any more.
I don't know. The weatherman didn't say anything about this in his weather report last night.
don't worry about money. I'll treat you tonight.
Amy, could you help me with this work?
I hope so. Thank you.
OK. how does this sound, let ’ s get you suited up and hit the dance club tonight. I hear that an awesome DJ is playing and there will be a lot of pretty single girls there!
I really need to go shopping.
I like to play golf, play badminton or crack jokes.
Okay. Please let me know if you need any help.
Come on, It’s losing needles all the time and the branches are sagging.
Look, we need to have the Stars.com account, right?
That sounds great. I'll have that one then.
No, he isn't. He's an engineer, the most famous one in our company.
Hi, Li Ming. You look upset. What's the matter?
I genuinely appreciate artists.
I think he's hot too.
Oh, why not?
Yes. Mostly to England and France.
Sir, we always try to please our guests.
That's all right. Have a good rest until you feel well enough.
The Olympic Park has a small forest. It is fit for picnic.
ok, I'll be back with two fried bananas in a few minutes. Wait for me here!
I could meet with you tomorrow anywhere from two until four ; what time works out best?
A lot of young people have to do that.
When will we get one of those?
I want the best one.
What courses are you going to take next year?
As a matter of fact I have, The doctor said it'll go away after a day or two.He ' s prescribed me some tablets.
Would you be kind enough to lend me forty pounds?
Yes, it fits all right now. I'll take it. Please put it in a bag and I'll take along.
We are just going round the corner for a drink. Won't you join us?
Do they charge for that?
Do you like my carpet? Be honest! Tell me what you really think.
I saw the guy come in with a gun.
Honey, just do it next time. Have you heard of the real art in the subway station in Russia?
Orange juice, please.
I am 25 years old.
Oh, that scared me.
Will you call his wife and let her know so that if she is available, she can come too?
Yeah, what's the matter now? We've had so much trouble with this case already. Don't tell me there's more bad news.
Have you watched today's news?
great! Thank you!
Would you care to join for the picnic tomorrow?
Sure. Beijingers are distinguished for their warmth and hospitality.
15 dollars per dozen
Do you have any English songs?
Hello, can you tell me how to use the telephone?
They're in aisle 2A, down that way.
You know you would spend it. And also, money in the bank earns interest.
Thank you Bill, and good morning Salt Lake City!
Your main responsibility is trouble-shooting between top management and the general employees.
Yes, he is. I ’ Ve make an appointment for 10 o ’ clock, so I ’ d better move along.
At least we agree on that. Let's go and get a drink.
I'm going to clean it.
Just goes to show that you should buy companies not ideas.
Okay, no problem. Bye!
It comes on the dot.
Take it easy. Be confident of yourself. I'm sure you can do it.
Oh, wow! It's really him! Who is that woman he's with?
Tom, your task is to clean the blackboard.
Sorry. You have to buy your ticket at the next counter.
As a rule we don't allow any commission. But if the order is sizable one, we will consider it.
Let's get together this weekend, is that all right?
Actually, it is a policy in my company. The human resources management department has connections overseas this year, so we can receive training there.
What are you talking about? We always eat the stuff here.
Not bad. What did you do?
How much did you want to spend?
Do you like chocolates?
Sure. Wait a moment.
Yes, you need to turn right and follow that road for about four minutes. You will see the Post Office on your left.
take the next right. Drive about one click further, and you ’ ll see the entrance of the highway to the Great Wall.
You ’ ll be okay.
Before the meals or after the meals?
Of course. We would be happy to cash it for you.
I ’ m great. Thanks.
How would you like the corn?
The Scholar? Let me see. Oh... yes, Of course I know. It’s in the Lincoln Square.
I'm just a beginner. Did my poses make me the butt of jokes?
Where was the break-in?
perhaps you're right,, though. Maybe the advertisement would be more effective with adults anyhow.
Don't worry, I will come to pick you up at about 6 thirty.
what would you do without me?
Well. Miss Sun, as you know, we are looking for an executive secretary with good English skills and some business background. We looked over your resume and thought you might be a good candidate.
I've been good. I'm in school right now.
I want my change.
But there must be so many people who also see the advertisement for that job on the net. You might have no chance.
Then you have to give me 15 dollars for the deposit. The library card is free.
regardless of how much pressure you're under, there's never a good reason to take drugs.
No, it's just that it's a holiday. With everyone out partying, there's a lot of drunk driving.
Milan Style Macaroni. Don't put sugar or salt on it, please.
Do you prefer brandy or ports.
Good evening, can I get you a drink?
As the saying goes, when in Rome, do as the Romans do.
I'm sorry to hear that.Did you check your shoulder bag carefully?
I work in marketing. I'm a regional marketing manager for an IT company. Normally, I work out of Beijing, but I'm here on business. My friend Judy over there, she lives here and she invited me to this party. And you? How about you?
The cleanup crew is towing the heavily damaged car and the green flag drops! Rikknen is still in the lead with only two laps to go!
Where will you live during the vacation.
Tell me something about your work experience.
In the second week of September.
Way to go! It seems beautiful and very delicious.
Did you do you own stunts in the movie?
Yes, it did. But my parents are ethnic minority people. It's a preferential policy for an ethnic minority family to have two children.
Actually, uh, I made it myself...
That was before he heard Stanley sing! I guess he couldn't stand it any more, so he decided to give it a try himself!
Just remember. The main thing right now is to make sure Stars.com is happy.
Do you have any sunscreen lotion?
What if I said no?
Maybe you can come next time.
Here you go. Thank you very much.
How do you do? They aren ’ t very busy! What are their jobs?
Good, I am sure it will work if you can persist.
Very well. You know, we have definite ways of packaging garments. As to blouses, we use a polythene wrapper for each article, all ready for window display.
I've called you a hundred times today.
Well, it all started when my brother challenged me to quit smoking.
Okay. The sooner the better.
Let's just look and see what they have.
I really want to take a nap. I feel very sleepy today.
Who's the booking for, please, madam?
Sort of, but I could know more, I guess.
It's a hard question, but I'm sure the reexamination of China's economic policies in the past may lead us to a right answer to the question. After the establishment of new China, our government employed numerous economics policies to stimulate the growth of China's economy. These policies, however, favored our domestic enterprises and protected them from international competition and these policies have contributed a lot to the rapid growth of both China economy and our domestic enterprises. After China's entry into TO, Chinese domestic enterprises will have to compete with their foreign counterparts. This new situation entails some changes of Chinese economic policies. These changes will spur Chinese enterprises to strengthen their competitiveness in the long run.
really? tell me about it. I haven't gone to the club for a long time. I am too busy with work.
What food do you fancy?
That sounds like fun. Would you mind some company?
I think it sounds like a good system. But when is it convenient to meet?
I'll use my VISA.
Very good! I'm looking forward to it. Please give my best regards to John. And I wish you best luck!
But that still sounds expensive.
Is it the same in America?
Yes, I have, sir. How long are you going on vacation?
Yes, I understand.
it's just we've been planning to go the beach for a while, and we decided we could both make it this weekend. Then out of nowhere she called me up, said her boyfriend had made plans and that she nee
Right. A reduction of 5 % is acceptable.
Sure. I'm really sorry for the trouble I've made.
Thank you! The same to you.
Mark, you've been coming home late these days. What are you busy doing?
I usually read or entertain myself.
What's the next thing I need to do?
How about tango?
That my new phone was lowkey awesome.
Oh, I like Digital Barbie! How much does she cost?
The doctor said that I probably have had it a few days.
This is awful! It's like drinking saltwater! It's like drowning in the ocean!
Yes, that is why I usually choose dark colours for my business suits.
Well, I guess you will meet many people in this field. So don ’ t forget to pack enough business cards in your suitcase.
Well, let's shake on that and draw up the details of the contract.
Yeah, he didn't come home until 12:00 AM.
I am great. How are you?
No, I just check my weight, I'm getting fatter.
I can transfer my home video clips from my camcorder to my computer for editing.
Nice to see you, Mrs. Smith.
That's an attractive plan. I'll think about it.
Yes, I am. I really don ’ t feel much like cooking but the family must eat.
True. Predictable weather would make life easier.
Good. I recommend it. Shakespeare is of course enormously important.We want our students to take the class as soon as they can.And Professor Friedman is an excellent teacher.
Very sorry, I am occupied tonight. What about tomorrow night?
About three days.
OK. I will write to you as soon as I get there.
I felt embarrased. After all, I am 18 years old. Mom gave me some chocolate cookies and a glass of milk.
well, I've never been to either so I was thinking of going to Disneyworld for my honeymoon.
I want to open a checking account.
And why are you returning them?
I hope so, too.Rose and her husband have been wanting a boy so much.
Good afternoon Sir. I'll have a look at the time-table for you. I'm sorry but there aren't any direct flights available.
The five dolls are sold together as a set, and they're priced according to the size. The bigger they are the more expensive.
I appreciate you saying that and would like you to join us in our meeting.
I'm sorry. We're still going. I got reservations for all of us on the 31st. It will be OK. Trust me.
Well, it's important that you sit with him and review his homework assignments and help him with math. I would also recommend he stay after school twice a week for tutoring sessions. It will really help a lot.
Yes, certainly.Here you are.
Yes, including a description of the shirts you want to purchase this time, the total amount of your order, the price for each piece, mode of payment, packaging, shipping time, insurance and compensation, claim and arbitration, and rights and duties for both sides. Are all the terms here satisfactory?
It is said that the sample 25 is the standard for others. It's complete. So would you like to sign the contract right now?
But they do.
It is so terrible to be caught unaware.
It's a special green tea named Longing Tea from Zhejiang province.
What did the woman ask you?
yeah. We Chinese have quite different lifestyles and values from foreigners.
Yes, It's supposed to be outstanding.
that was the last game before the playoffs.
I think that the percentage is incorrect.
Not on your life! I know I'd break my leg
OK. Could you please help me to clean them?
It’s not usually included, so you ’ ll have to factor in about 100 pounds more each month for utilities.
Why is the long face?
very funny. Next you should check your side mirrors and your rear view mirror. Can you see out of them?
That's really kind of you.
If I told her that, she would faint and have me committed!
Just put it on with the rest of my hotel bill.
What is the annual interest rate?
Yes, but I'm very busy with work.And you know how it is, sometimes people don't visit the tourist sites in their own country.
Welcome to Lincoln Bank. Which service do you require today?
There ’ s nothing at all to worry about. Once you are in the air, It’s just like sitting at your sitting room. It’s going to be a very pleasant flight.
Hey, could you help me try and figure out how to get ready for my job interview?
Good evening.Welcome to our program.
What? Do you think someone will arrest me for making a joke? Someone will arrest me here at the breakfast table?
Yes, sir. Your balance is RIB 34,000.
Are there certain things that I should avoid?
That this movie was lit!
That's OK. We'll contact you the moment we hear from home.
Poor guy! It will take him a long time to get back on his feet.
The pleasure is mine.
no idea. We've enjoyed both the natural scenery and the city sights. What else is there to see?
Well, he ’ s really lucky. It seems that he could win the bet at every turn.
Ok, got it. I will call you sometime next week.
Is Diana in?
Here it is. And how much RIB shall I get?
I'll make it to school on time. Don't worry.
Did they accept the counter-offer?
I shave every workday, but I only shave at weekends if I ’ m going out somewhere. If I ’ m staying at home, I don ’ t shave.
I thought he usually wrote horror books.
Because you can see the stars perfectly.
What, it keeps coming back?
By the way, where's Jim?
I guess so. I usually buy name-brand clothing, shoes, and electronic goods. How about you?
Certainly. But if there are going to be four of us, I had better make reservations.
Give me a minute.
We ’ re planning on having children soon, I don ’ t think those animals are a good idea with a baby in the house.
Yes, I know my hair is quite thin.It runs in my family. Everybody has very thin hair.
Certainly. Here you are. Our health authorities said they were no longer suitable for human consumption. I have to remind you that our terms are CIF Hamburg. I hope you would indemnify us for the loss, so it wouldn't be so heavy on us.
how about I come and see you off?
Remember, it is in the E building on the third floor.
David, how is your interview?
Anyway, I'm still happy I left. I'm working as a freelancer now.
Actually, it is my mother ’ s wedding. My parents divorced many years ago. Now she is ready to establish a new family. It is a special occasion. I've got to be there, right?
If I think of famous people, I think of Abraham Lincoln.
Next time, you can get one from the counter over there. Or before you come in, you can download one from our website. It's really easy.
Hello, Helen. This is John. How are you?
What makes you think that?
Zina? Zina the Snake?
How long will it take to get my clothes back?
Good morning, Nathaniel. This is Leah calling from the International Student Office.
Yep! The nick name for your zone, address, gender and so on. Some of them are privacy, so you have the right to keep secret here.
Whose house warming party is it?
Yes, next March.
Everything appears to be in order. Thank you for your time.
I got major FOMO from missing that vegetarians.
Actually, what bothers me is the violence. There are far too many detective and police shows.
thanks for the advice. I'll talk to my fiance about it tonight.
Alright. If you can bring it to me tomorrow morning, I can talk with you after class on Friday.So I'll have some feedback for you before the weekend.
Hi, Alice, what are you doing this sunday?
I'm awesome.
Yes, I would have to agree with you. It seems to offer more options than the others. But new product sometimes has a few troubles. How about yours?
I plan to, but what day is the election?
He may be injured. Yes, come on, call the team doctor.
I couldn't look at you, and say you aren't beautiful!
Toilets are in the rear, I am afraid all the toilets are fully occupied at the moment.
I will. Good-bye.
All right. But tell him I will only be here until four o'clock.
You can't beat me at tennis.
Merry Christmas! Mr Bean.
Love Music Woman
I am glad to work with you, too. Good luck!
Less than 5 %. It's quite durable.
Mr. : Furthermore, when you are dismissed in the afternoon, you will be divided into two waves.
Including my keys?
Oh. Thanks. Look, I must just go and say hello to someone. I'll be right back.
I really just have two problems with this.
No, seriously. I am impressed.
Hey, Vernassa. why be angry look?
Unique, aren ’ t they? I bet you ’ Ve never tasted anything like it! Quality is assured as I personally visit the factory to make sure no one ’ s cutting corners with the ingredients. Only the creme make it through inspection.
Nothing smells a rat. I told you that he's an all-right guy.
It was for 10
Listen, Christine, you can not afford another day off. You ’ Ve called in sick five times in the last three weeks.
Alright. We can go later then.
I heard that The Return of the King was nominated for 11 Oscars.
Don't do that. You are asking for trouble.
Oh, my God!
You ’ re right about that.
Perfect. It will be open to the public and we anticipate roughly about five to seven hundred people.
No, sir. We left directly from the hostel.
Thank you.How much is it?
Ok, we would do as your requirement. And we ’ ll contact with you later!
We provide our employees with training opportunities at home and abroad.
Don't worry ; I can help you with that. I understand that new technology can sometimes be unnerving. The first thing we need to do is check the ATM is in service. This one is fine.
Oh, we are skillful in doing that. You can trust us. Our shop has a history of more than 20 years.
Who do you like best of the NBA players?
Yeah, I called and they said they'd send someone over.
Really? That's nice.
Welcome, Li Mei. Please give me your coat and hat.
Yes. I did some work on that, and I found out some really interesting things about the conductivity of liquid helium. I was sure I had a great discovery until my teacher told me the same discovery already made twenty years ago. I think the most important thing, I learnt though, was the importance of keeping good records.
Do you have a balcony?
You mean liquor has a higher tax than other things?
Certainly, hold on.
That's right. I should speak to them in a polite way.
What was your GPA before this semester?
Can you take the stain off?
Hi, John, I am trying to find a carpenter.
I'll check it for you... sorry to keep you waiting. I've found it.Is this yours?
I ’ m still shocked that Obama was elected.
Yes, of course. I can't go through a day without coffee in the morning.
My coach wants you to check my blood pressure.
What about the cotton one?
Don ’ t get me wrong! It’s just that you seem so young and already doing business overseas!
Where shall we sit?
Not really. But we do recommend you to read through our terms and conditions again before you sign the card, just in case there is something you aren't happy with.
A Russian man broke the discus record by a centimeters. Out best athlete broke his personal best in the long jump, but it only got him third place.
OK, let's start from the top of your pay stub. This number here represents your gross pay.
Great. Thanks for asking.
Doctor, I have the worst toothache!
Why don't we spend this vacation earning our tuition?
Oh, you ’ re not listening to me.
I am going to go home after the holidays and we're going to have a Christmas kind of in January or February. Yeah, depending on when my brother can come in.
Alright, if that's the way you are going to be, we'll split the bill.
Good idea. We should also pedicures and manicures.
You ’ re making my blood boil.
Oh, my god, are you OK?
Oh. What was your major?
I think so. I used to be an interpreter.
I recommend you buy a two-bedroom house. It is very suitable for a couple, and some two-bedroom houses are large enough for a one-child family.
How was the party?
Hello! This is Ruby speaking from G. O. T. International Travel Agency. What can I do for you?
Yes, we specialize in handling clocks and watches of all sorts. We have well established channels of distribution and we canvass the retailers direct, without any middlemen.
Oh, it's getting late. I've got to run. It was nice talking to you, karren.
What about our mobile phones and cameras? Did you charge them last night?
See you in the morning.
When you need an apartment, where do you look for one?
You really should have stayed with us, Dave.
do you have any other questions?
I need to find a space on campus.
Where on earth will you work in?
What's the problem?
Would you mind if I helped out in the kitchen instead? I do enjoy cooking.
Don ’ t be sad. Everything will be fine.
I have heard that the cream is longer lasting.
The only thing you should do now is relax. You already are pre-qualified for your loan.
My boots? Er... Sure, ok.
The ship is going very fast.
Why don't you just ask the bus driver for a transfer?
Yes, It’s already fifty yuan off the original price.
Is Mr. Thomas there, please?
OK. I will go in no time.
Don't you know that? Are you kidding me?
OK. I will call you soon. Bye now.
The pleasure is all mine.
I can ’ t believe I ’ m actually speaking to a candidate.
Sure.How about this carry-on bag?
You did what? Helen, I know it's gross, but I ' Ve seen many public washrooms that are much worse. Why are you cleaning the counter top? are you out of your mind?
Is there a train leaving for Philadelphia?
So you must like NBA game.
Do you go jogging or do you go to a health club?
How much was your watch?
Shall we check your oil and tires?
It's so named because in the pavilion over there the great poet Bai Buyi of the Tang Dynasty would take a rest after drinking a little too much, and watch the moon over the lake.
Angry? Why would I be?
Really? But they're delicious!
Hi. Are you new in this class?
Thank you, Doctor.Goodbye.
the brakes don't really work that well anymore either.
Hi, Ryan, this is Malia, and I will not be coming to work today.
Just get out of my face, would you?
What a mess!
No, I don't think comedies today are natural or cheerful.
My sister was taken to the hospital yesterday
So are Copernicus and many others.
I'd suggest that you go to the Philately Store in Nanjing Road East, where the items are authentic and the prices are reasonable.
I wouldn't say that. It looks fine to me.
Yes, I'd like to reserve a table for dinner.
Sorry, what was your last name again?
When did you learn to dance?
About a year ago actually. You've probably never seen her though.
I want to see the man responsible for selling typewriters.
Well, congratulations. When is the big date?
But you really should let me treat one time, I feel like I own you one if I didn't.
On the level?
No problem. How do you wish to pay for it?
What are you having for lunch?
Oh, look at your table! I'll help you clear it off.
sure, I will be happy to bring a few, what is the address?
I'm fed up with his boring lectures.
Would you like to go to a concert with me?
Do you need anything, grocery?
I'll give you two clues. First, it cost more than $ 250. And second, it's not big, but fat.
How big is it?
I think that maybe Chinese families are closer than your families.
Yes, they loved the price, the delivery date was the problem. They just didn't want to cut the delivery date that close.If something went wrong and you didn't deliver, we might not be able to get stock in time for Christmas.If you could have been two or three weeks faster on delivery, they might have gone with you.
( at the dance ) That band is playing good music. Shall we dance?
No, Mary went first last time.
How about the repairs after the warranty expire? Are you responsible for the fixing if the machine breaks down after the warranty period?
Yes. I have just got lost with my firiend.Can you page my friend for me?
I ’ d like that, but I ’ m flying home this afternoon, and I told my parents I ’ d meet them at the airport for lunch.
But you may have some trouble convincing the kids.
If I remember correctly, time of delivery is another point in which we differ.
Me too. Sometimes I do want to give it up. I can't deal with so many things at a time.
O. K. Thanks. I ’ ll let you know what I find.
The restaurant is on the second floor. Here is the key to your room. It's on the 6th floor, room 609. The elevator is over there. And we also have a cafeteria on the top floor, if you would like something to drink, you can also call room service.
Maybe I'll go there then.
Let's start walking to the Epcot Center then.According to this map, it is up this pathway here.
It sounds nice, but don't forget this is a seedy, run-down neighborhood.
Yes. My bank offers very good terms and conditions on mortgage. There ’ s a lot of competition between banks nowadays. Each one is trying to offer better conditions and services than the others.
Ok, just follow me.
Hi. I'm shopping for my boyfriend's birthday. Do you have any suggestions?
That ’ s great. Can you do it anywhere?
Are you sure Lucy has it bad for you? If she does, she will certainly bend over backwards for you. But if she doesn't, it would be a job to change her.
Thank you. But I ’ m sorry I ’ m in a bad mood at the moment.
I need to find out some more information for L / C. I would like an outline of responsibilities, both ours, yours and the beneficiary, please.
Excuse me, when is the next train to Los Angeles?
Great. I ’ ll have a shot.
Where did you go to university?
Here's ten. Keep the change.
Thank you for such a lovely evening! The food was amazing, and I had a great time.
Can you tell which team seems to win?
No, but I'm sure I'll get better soon.
I'd be glad to have your help. Could you make the air-conditioner cooler?
What is included in a job advertisement?
How were your scores in university?
When will the ceremony begin?
I'm afraid that's a bit beyond my means.
That will be 25RMB, please
I was in New York for a wedding.
Let's just hope the politicians don't figure out a way to spend it.
They will need a record showing who you worked for and when you worked for them.
Many of our business friends in England, France, Switzerland, Italy and Germany are paying for our exports in Japan currency. It is quite easy to do so.
When you are in a restaurant you want the waiter to bring the bill, what do you do to attract his attention?
Again? You just went last week! You spend more time at the nail salon than you do here at home! Honestly, why do you need a manicure every week?
Julie ’ s friend, Mary. And John will be the best man.
Have you decided what you'd like?
OK, that ’ s all of them. No more gifts. Now who wants to guess when the baby is due?
That's right. Then you will follow the signs to Gate 85.
Great. My face will turn even redder!
Do you want it for yourself or for your girlfriend?
It's me. I have studied make-up at a beauty shop.
How long will it take by air?
How's this?
All right, thanks.
Let's take a break.
I will be sending someone out as soon as I can get hold of the roofer. Will you be home this morning?
That's perfect.
Non-smoking, please.
What happened to your old one?
For a week or so.
Sure. Here is your receipt.
Yeah. Also, we can have some Naan bread which is baked in a tandoori oven. Since you don ' t use any utensils to eat, you can use this bread to scoop up the curry or rice.
Well, we won't be able to guarantee you a room for February 22, but we can book you on February 23.Is that OK?
The Canadian rock singer? But I heard you had a part-time job yesterday. How did you see her?
How about going there to have a look now?
I ’ m going to need you to complete this application.
I didn't know you were a twin! Are you identical or fraternal?
I think so, too. Our only request is that the quality is in conformity with the contract stipulations.
Can you tell me when we are arriving?
When do we get off the bus?
Well, ping-pong is our national sport, and we just have to keep winning one honor after another. That's why many people think such rules acceptable. After all, they are funded out of taxpayers'money.
But Sue is indeed beaut. Men can hardly resist such a knock-out.
That sounds like a good idea. I'll have to try that.
Don ’ t take that tone with me. Do you have an invoice for these items?
Oh, really? Thanks, I ’ m going to do that right now.
OK.Now you can pick your fabric and pattern design. Please follow me.
Hi, Alex. Would you come with me to supply? I ’ Ve got to pick up a load of stuff and I ’ m afraid I can ’ t carry it all.
Here you are.Which size do you wear?
What about this one? It's a very nice 3 - piece suit.
Here you are. Can I have a seat in the back of the plane?
We'll have several foreign guests to attend the meeting.
Here's your boarding pass. Have a nice flight.
OK.Your bill includes the doctor's fee and the cost for a 3 - day supply of medicine. It comes to one hundred yuan.
I just remembered that I've got to give a speech in class today and I forgot to prepare for it.
You keep bowling spares but no strike.
Thanks for the loan.
Hello, I'd like to get a seat on flight PB12 to Rome.
Look at the show on TV. I am watching a food show at a very famous seafood restaurant. I really want to eat at that restaurant. I am a seafood lover.
This is a special adhesive for easing the pain. Apply it to the painful area and change it in every 2 days.
For me, the Olympics for the disabled always catches my heart. It makes me understand that perseverance makes the impossible possible.
I think if you try some more authentic Chinese food, you might understand how we students from Taiwan suffer.
Well, what time does it begin?
And what size would you like?
NYU was my first choice.
That's still too far for me.
All of his works have been translated into English. I recommend you to read one or two works of his. You'll get a general glimpse into Chinese kung fu culture. When you go through the pages, you are likely to feel they are not about kung fu alone, but cover all walks of life.
Yes! We have all assumed that you were the quiet, shy type.
No, please don't. I couldn't let you do that.
Good morning, doctor. I've been suffering very much from a toothache lately.
Of course I heard that. I thought a plane had crashed into your house.
It says ' Wet paint! '
Have you had any luck finding a topic for your paper?
To be honest, I was just dumped.
Oh, Thank you. I'm looking for the train station.
They're in Aisle Two.
I made plenty of business contract on my last visit and through the embassy. We should be able to get plenty of customers.
I have never used an ATM before.
If you think it is necessary.
Of course, I have Monday or Tuesday available. What day would be best for you?
But I prefer burnt bread.
If you are hired, when can you start work?
Don't worry about that.
I think that's a great idea. Men look great with that kind of bag.Where can we buy one?
Yes, I know that. But I like adventure and excitement in my writing.
You ’ re almost 70 years old, Mom! Don ’ t you think it would be better for you if you moved in with us?
My field is electronic engineering. Which country do you think I should go?
Why don't you go talk to her and find out what her secret was this year.
We have a holiday next week, don't we?
Well, I adjust going to have to disagree with you. A healthy body wakes up without caffeine!
I believe it will. It comes furnished. You can move in immediately after the lease is signed.
I am not sure where the bookstore is.
In any case, I like baby showers, because they allow friends and family to share the joy and excitement of welcoming a new life into the world.
You may check out books or videos.
But many girls nowaday do want to marry a man filthy with dough.
That does look easy. I think I'll make some tonight.
but why? Did I do anything wrong?
We do require a deposit before we can issue you with a personal credit card.
But how can I prevent a deficit?
It's a pity. I'm afraid that's too loud for me.Thank you.
I prefer to go there next time.
How much would it be?
I got major FOMO from missing that artists.
There are so many record players here.That is hard to choose.
Could I speak to Mr Wood, please?
That Italian restaurant in the city centre always has large portions. Do you want to go there?
All right. What's your membership card, please?
The kitchen may be large, but it doesn ’ t have any storage space.
What is the special local product?
What shall we do after the volleyball match?
You don't have to worry about it. We have a one year warranty.
Thank you, the service was good
No, I left it at home.Sorry!
You can suck a candy or pinch your nose gently while breathing out. That shall help.
I'm very old-fashioned. I believe in loyalty.Once I start a sales relationship with someone, I stay with him or her, and we so most of our business on the phone. I expect their absolute best price possible and don't haggle.But if I find out they screwed me over, then I find another supplier.
Mike, don't even think about it!
Exactly. That's what we have done in the past.
Certainly. Just make them out to National Bank, and sign and date them.
Wow, it's surprising. So what do I get?
I hope it stays nice like this for a long period of time.
Were I in your position, I ’ d go to America.
Can I get you any dessert?
Well, I can tell you from experience that Bob might come off a little strong sometimes.
I hate working on Christmas Eve! Whoa! Get a load of this guy! Come in central, I think we ’ Ve got ourselves a situation here.
It'll really take me to the station?
Good, thanks. I look forward to hearing from you.
Sorry, I don't have it. But I do have her Email. You want me to sent it to you?
Yes, beautiful weather we're having.
Sure our thing.
Can you direct me to Holiday inn?
My German teacher thought it would be a good idea to have German pen friends to write to in German.
I'm really sorry I let you down. I'll make it up to you somehow.
Some restaurants allow you to take your own wine and just charge you corkage, but the don ’ t do that at “ ginger ’ s ”. what was included in the seafood buffet?
Hello. My name is Jessica Smith. I ’ d like to cancel the newspaper.
Hello, is this the ABC Company?
Sure, that's no problem. May I have your credit card? We need a credit card on file for your room charges and incidentals.
Oh, to tell you the truth, I love the sky. When I was a child, I imagined flying into the blue sky some day. Now, I think the day has come. My dream will come true. And I like travelling very much and I enjoy working with people.
Yes, speaking.May I help you?
No, I don't. I left it home.
Ok, I ’ ll try my best.
I think I've got a virus on my computer. Do you know how to get rid of it? I haven't had one before.
I just opened my own restaurant. I'm also head chef.
See you later!
Thank you. Good-bye.
Come on! You can go tomorrow, just skip it today. It's not as if you are gonna get in trouble!
Do you enjoy going on dates?
Do the drivers speak English?
Yes, including London Tube.
I like a family composed of many people. It includes grandparents, parents, aunts and uncles, and children.
Really, it's so beautiful.
Hey Matt. I'm going to ask Martha to marry me?
Ha ha, really?
I was also accepted into Yale University, and Sydney University.
What about this one? It's the latest.
But if you hear them coming, isn't it already too late?
Have a wallet size print made for me, too.
Am. Well, can I have a try of the sample free of charge?
Sounds fascinating. Where is your new house located?
Have you applied with any other companies?
How do you want your money?
Hi Wei, what are you going to do this weekend?
She is dealing with customers and driving up new business. The guy next to her is in charge of their office computer network.
I don't think you've met my sister, Mary.
This is the route I thought we could take on our hike on Saturday afternoon.
The kids wait in the house while the grownups hide these. Hide away, Yi-jun!
What style do you use?
Thanks your flatter.
Who is the next?
Can I take your order please?
RIB 8,000, please. Would you please tell me my balance?
Oh, that's not everything. You're free on Friday and then on Saturday you're catching the 9 o'clock plane back to Guangzhou.
Yeah, yeah, we ’ re here because we feel this is an injustice! The financial irresponsibility of big business has to stop! We ’ re there to show the government that we don ’ t like the way that they ’ re spending our tax dollars!
Well, cats are certainly more independent.
Kate. She said she was too excited to go to sleep.
He asked me if I'd like to be a newspaper salesperson?
Shirley, that's my wife's name. I subscribe to this magazine for her.
I really admire those who made such great inventions!
You're not weak... you're stressed out! Stress has been a part of the human condition for millions of years. Back when we still lived in the trees we had to watch out for predators... and as you might imagine, that was pretty stressful.
Do you know when they will start setting up interviews for the job?
I am an accountant at a company.
Suit yourself. Don ’ t forget to set the alarm clock.
What's the chef's specialty?
Yes, I got married to a man that I met shortly after I divorced my first husband.
Will you be here long?
Well... I told them not to come. I made a reservation just for the two of us. I thought we could have an quiet evening all to ourselves.
Who is your favorite singer?
Well, I feel a little tired.
Yes, I do. It saves me a lot of time. I also have standing orders for my subscriptions to magazines.
Sounds good. I don ’ t want it to be too expensive, maybe something mid-range.
911 emergency. What is the problem?
Have you made a reservation, sir?
Yes, it is still covered by our warranty. Tell me the mode number of your vacuum, please.
Get in. I will take you there.
What are the odds of finding a parking space there?
It's about 14 hours. We are supposed to land there at 19:00.
Oh, I don't think you're shy! You are always chatting with new people when we go to a party.
I'm sorry but it is our regulation, so I must follow it. We will issue you with a receipt to show that the notes you presented us with are counterfeit and have been confiscated. Then, if you wish to pay in some more cash, you are free to do so.
( At the Party ) It's Christmas Eve! Time to open presents!
so you think it's ok for people who are dieting to eat chocolate?
I ’ m afraid you ’ re going in the opposite direction.
Do you have a sales slip?
You can wear that pretty red dress.
I cannot stay here any more minutes.
Hello, I come to pay my water and electricity fees.
Which do you prefer, color or black and white?
Oh, yes. Hello Mr Simons. I have some information about your L / C amendment. The negotiating bank has just informed us that the 3rd party does not wish to accept the amendment.
I'm Charlie. Nice to meet you.
Good afternoon. I'd like to speak with Tom Smith.
Will you forgive me. Could you return my camera?
What do you think about it?
You should have seen the line at the housing office.It took me an hour to make my dormitory deposit for next year. Have you made yours yet?
I need something to eat, please.
Is there anything I should do?
There are over a thousands kinds of articles in our shop.For example, there is tricolored pottery originating in the Tang Dynasty, embroidery, batik, jade carving, just to name a few.Do you have anything in mind?
No. As far as I can remember he was supposed to be on a business trip to Lisbon.
We do, as most hotels do.
Yes, let's go. Lock the door, please.
Just a moment and I'll get your order right away. Sorry to cause the inconvenience.
I'll have a glass of lemonade. More ice, please.
Sure. You can send E-mail to each other every day through the internet. In addition, you can make a phone call through the internet, too.
How does it look?
Why not, sir?
I can't. I have to meet someone.
Okay, sir, but don't think too long. Your checkout is only 30 minutes away.
How long does it take to cook meat on a barbecue?
Why did Tom quit his job?
Let me see. Yes, we still have some tickets left. Which performance?
Oh, I see. I believe I can do the job well.
How do you arrange this summer vacation?
We want one vegetarian supreme and one double pepperoni.
Hello, I would like to buy some business cards.
OK. Let's disco.
Great. I'll call and make reservations.
Interest is paid at the rate of 1 % per annum at present. And it is added to your account every year.
Hello. This is Lucy from ABC Company. Is this Monica?
But I'm afraid it'll take up too much of my time.
First, tell me about your education, please.
Oh, it's nothing to speak of.
Oh, I see. By the way, what shall I do if changes in altitude create pressure on the ears?
OK. I ’ ll make enquiries.
I think you'll find I'm worth that.
What ideas do you have if we employ you?
My brother has offered me two tickets for this evening.
What kind of style do you want?
The question is, can he have it done before Friday?
I'd rather get one with separated speakers.They give a clear sound.
Okay, tell me when you want to order the rest of your food.
How was your shopping trip Martin?
You can't peek! This is a surprise.
So you write your name and member number at the top of the card.And then, after you exercise each time, you file the card here.
And junk food contains lots of fat and oil. There is one final reason why so many people are fat.
Karen, do you have a minute? I'd like to ask you about something.
Just like in the States! That's perfect!
I feel my background and experience are a good fit for this position and I am very interested.What ' s more, your company is outstanding in this field.
Basically I get 5,000 RIB every month. It is a well-paid job with satisfying working hours.
Is there anything else that we need?
I hope you enjoy it here.
Yes, that would be best. Now, for food should we have Chinese or American food?
That could be helpful. But when you go into a shopping center... prices become very flexible. You have to be able to read the market.
Yes... a bit... ouch!
Yes, I get it. Will the medical plan cover me while on duty?
Yes, ti does. Just like a needle prick. Besides, the place that hurts often feels cold, too.
I'm not sure about that. How would people get to work?
Maybe we ’ ll meet some of the artists too.
Hello, Jason. Are you free this Saturday evening?
Watch your step. There's a hole in the sidewalk.
No, it's not going to be George. I don't think it's Andy either. He is involved with the boss's sister in-law. And you know how whipped our boss is.
But what's a movie without munchies?
Yeah, quite right. Gambling broke up a happy family.
I'm not being nosey. I'm just asking.
Some Chinese food. I ’ m hungry, and there ’ s a take-out restaurant near here. We can have them deliver and then watch the news on TV while we eat.
Definitely! Very relaxing.
Things are tough all over. You should never give up!
That's a big question. Well, if you are in love, maybe you ’ ll take every opportunity to talk to her or telephone her for no reason at all.
You are welcome, Mr. Sun.
No. I take public transportation. It's safer.
Why don't you try Chinese herbal medicine?
so, what did you get them?
Let me see. Ok, this way, please.
We have received your resume in answer to our ads. I would like to talk with you regarding your qualification for this position, OK?
We're sorry, but single rooms have been occupied.
Anytime you like.
Oh, well. As far as other conveniences in the neighborhood, there ’ s a grocery store just up the block, and there ’ s lots of little shops nearby.
I have passed the CET - 4 and 6.As far as computer is concerned I can use the computer for word processing.
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to forget our wedding anniversary.
I would be willing to look at a different color. You need to bring me a sample.
You haven't lost any weight, have you?
Do you have any night tours?
Oh yes, I've heard of that one. Everyone I've spoken with says that it is great!
So, the rate could fluctuate a little, depending on the amount given by the PBC?
It's got its own library, theatre, swimming pool, and a guest house. The house itself has about ten different rooms that are all hooked up to computers so you can get things done in each room through a remote control. It's also located near the sea, so he can park his boats next to his house. It's absolutely amazing!
Hi Kristy! What's going on?
You could try shopping at a flea market.
Mm... It's quite warm now.
I agree with you in the sense. But we ’ re all more miserable than ever, aren ’ t we?
Just let me weigh it for you. That's 2 lb. and 6 oz. That's be £ 10.
Great. Send it to me by FedEx tomorrow morning. Or better, call Federal Express for a pick-up. That way I'll get it even earlier.
Eating here or to go?
Yes, It’s.
What ’ s your attitude when do wrong things at work?
Don ’ t worry. It’s only a cold.
What kind of work are you interested in?
Thank you again for your visit. We are looking forward to your reply.
Well, it took me about nine hours to get back here by car.If Ivan leaves tonight, I think he should be there by tomorrow lunch.
I have been coming here for the past few years.
Do you mean you prefer a deferred payment?
Yes.Your name, please?
Good evening, ma'am. Table for one?
What do you mean, Mr. Smith? You said to make it brief.
Well. Have you got his permission?
I have to find a living room set.
Now you just make your selection and pray. If nothing comes out, try again or call the number on the side of the machine.
Almost. The only thing that isn't ready is the hotel. As a lot of people have chosen that day to get married, it is hard to find a hotel that isn't too expensive.
Hi! Wang Mei.Come and have a look at my new dress.
When will the new people move into this house?
I think it's acceptable and I really like the job. And when can I know the decision?
How much do I need for this letter?
Where did you transfer from?
I have a business appointment with him for tomorrow morning at ten o'clock, but I'm afraid I can't make it.
I ’ ll take a little milk, but no sugar, please. Make sure you let the tea steep a few minutes before you take the tea bag out of the cup.
You should make a salad like that.
There are a lot of wild animals in that place, and also some special rules while visiting.
All right. Let's call it quits and go home.
Maybe that's what I'll do. Thanks a lot.
Mr. : Yes. By the way, review today's notes this evening. We may have a small quiz tomorrow.
Yeah. Other than that, the real feature are the excellent drinks. Can I have your ticket?
Sure. 416-790-1256.
What's the interest rate?
Well, I suppose that, to be fair, you should get to pick the movie and we can go to a restaurant that serves meat.
I'm signing off.
I thought you knew.
I know that generally it is possible to move from this position to a management position with two years experience in the company
Thank you for helping me figure out what to do with my poison oak.
5,000 dozen is by no means a large order. In that case, the best I can do is to give you a 5 % reduction.
Hey, wake up. It's done. How do you like it?
Do you remember where you got it?
Yeah, especially since it's ninety degrees outside.
Hello, room service. Can I help you?
Oh, right. Now I know why they would want to see our boy. It’s hard to imagine the wonder! Are they expecting a boy or a girl?
That's right. What can I do for you?
skim, please. That'd be very nice. Thanks... oh no. Janna, I'm so sorry, but I've got to go.
What would make this apartment better for you?
OK, OK. I'm so sorry. By the way, for you, is it more important to make money or to enjoy your work?
In the coming, before going to work.
Let's go to work. We want to have the tree ready to light up by evening.
Oh, no, he likes the job.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
There is some, but my country is not amongst the leading producers. The oil and coal deposits are in the north of my country. Your country is a big oil producer, isn ’ t it?
No, I insist. I kept telling you that I would treat you to dinner but I still haven't.
Forget it. It’s nothing.
How would you consider your salary if you succeed in becoming a translator in our company?
To work in a team, in my opinion, two characteristics are necessary for a person. That is, the person must be cooperative and aggressive.
Yes.Do you sell stockings?
Need a gift for your girlfriend or wife...
We are basically going to check your heart, lungs, blood sugar levels, and eyes, ears, and nose.
Never mind. You can follow me. I'll sing the first part.
You will raise your arms up shoulder high.
Oh, I see. So if I call my branch they can sort everything out for me?
They're quite complex machines and they have a lot of different components. We need to check the metal casing regularly for any signs of corrosion. We also check the brushes once a fortnight to make sure they aren't worn down. It's important to make sure everything is properly aligned and we adjust it if necessary. There is a canvas belt at the end of the assembly line. If it gets wet, it might rot so we check that regularly too.
While the pale color symbolizes beauty and elegance in most Asia countries.
Do you think the snowmaking may cause pollution?
How much more do I have to pay?
Good Morning Mr Jones.
He's fine. He retired last week. It's a turning point in his life. Now he can relax and enjoy his retirement.
How long is the bus ride?
Well, anyway, he'd somehow lost his wallet and his house keys, so he couldn't get in. He lives alone, you know.
Really? It is amazing. I will apply for a position in your company.
That blouse is absolutely wonderful on you though.
A double room sounds great.
But for the life, we'll be changed by this society.
Don't cry over spilled milk, Fred? Could you stay with me a few minutes?
Hi, what're you reading?
Yes. It's superb.
I know, but remember to meet in a public place and don't give out your personal information.
We've got a bad line. Can you repeat that please?
Great. You can move in next Monday. Your first month's rent is due then.
I'll give you mine too.
I don ’ t like to go to the movies on a date. It's noisy there.
sure. Beijingers are distinguished for their warmth and hospitality.
Good-bye, and thank you for shopping here.
What time should I arrive?
That's not as complicated as you suppose.
We can do that, but you'll have to pay a little extra.
Besides the turkeys, we'll also have other delicious food. Such as pumpkin pies, puddings, mashed potatoes, bread, a lot of fresh fruits and vegetables.
Yes, you are responsible for keeping all files in order.
I really need to get some things before I leave.
but don't you think it annoying to overcharge the customers by such a handsome margin?
Look closely at the five men in this line-up.
What do you know about Julia Roberts?
When I was a little boy, I had a dream of becoming a lawyer.
Mrs. Reynolds? This is Martin Gross calling.
Oh right... present company excluded, of course!
I'm not surprised.
Haha! Actually, I felt that your array of services is much better than what my old bank had on offer. Plus, I've got plenty of friends who bank with you and they are extremely happy.
Cool! Anything else?
Around 6 o'clock.
I wonder if you could help me?
Good idea, especially at this price.
I'll be here to pick you up at 6:30.
Yes, I do. It’s hard to find four players though, so I don ’ t play very often. Do you know anyone who plays? If so, we could set up a game.
The advertised rate is based on double occupancy.
Wait a minute. I made a phone call, but I never made a connection.
Where is it now?
I'll be willing to come and talk about the financing of our imports.
Remember that old man who used to beg for money on the street across from our house?
I'm off this Friday.
Yes, Miss Parks? How may I help you?
It seems like it rains every time we plan a picnic.
You are already pre-qualified for your loan, so you are in good shape.
Hi, Juliet, I'm treating Mr.Li and his team members from Galp to dinner tomorrow evening.Where do you think I should take them?
I don't like strong perfumes.
it doesn't matter, but it needs to be close to the subway or on a convenient bus route.
I don't know what to say. I'd like to replace it.
Did you have time to go to the zoo?
Yeah, that's true. OK, besides cats, dogs, and fish, what are some other pets people keep?
We prefer on the same floor because we will probably chat late at night.
No, that ’ s all. I already have your resume.
It was nice talking to you too.
OK, thank you. I ’ ll look into it.
Of course not, I appreciate that.
I think it's beautiful. I want to hang it in the living room.
I'm starving. Let's get something to eat.
OK, just a little though. I'm really full.
How did you know! They say listening to classical music can make your baby smarter!
Actually, I don't like history. Lately, these shows are always about the Pyramids.
How many nights a week is it?
Hi! This is Jill.How come you didn't come in today?
Please do that. I can't wait to come back again. The performance must be really amazing.
When and where did you obtain your degree?
I haven't started yet, but I will.
When should I come for work in the morning?
You like Panda Express?
It depends.But usually it's about 15 days.
It's not much different from that heavy metal music you like so much.
Did you have any hobbies?
Would you like these supplies delivered or would you like to pick them up?
Here are some biscuits. Why are you back so early today?
I wanted to attend this school originally, but my grades out of high school weren ’ t good enough.
No. But if you say something like that in the White House, they may take it seriously. Sometimes I think you joke too much.
No, that ’ s not true. Many adults like the Harry potter books too.
What did you do to put it into practice?
And he can move, too! He dances like Ricky Martin!
That's nothing.
We're broke.
Welcome to Lincoln Bank. What can I help you with, Sir?
What am I supposed to do with the cup when I am done?
How could you not notice it?
I ’ m fed up with marriage.
Personal Loans, how may I help?
Can you give us more information?
Ok. See you there in about 30 minutes.
yes. Which one is the brake again?
All right. Goodbye.
Hmm, it's a tough choice, but I think I'll go with this one.
Then I'll have the pork cutlet instead.
I know. Are the subway trains easy to take here?
I think that it is around 600.
What about Saturday?
Excuse me, sir, may I take your order now?
Do you play any sports or games?
You must be joking. The job is nice and she is well paid.
Who ’ s the author?
Yes, I know what the curb colors mean.
I have two years driving experience.
What did you think of the film?
Maybe with the choice of life or death before you, you will find it easier.
It’s possible. If you would like to book with another airline the line is right over there.
That sounds fantastic! But I am looking for something closer to downtown, as I spend most of my time at the office.
Yes, certainly.You have the receipt?
Can kids in the countryside get equally good benefits and education like those in the cities?
No, we don't, especially the elder people. But more and more young people fall for coffee nowadays.
I work at the polling place every year.
Thank you. Welcome to call again. Goodbye.
Who do you think is going to get the Oscar for best actor?
Sure. What kind of room do you like?
It is so kind of you, Dad.
We have Italian, French and Thousand Island.
You don't look very well.
Can I mail it in early next time so it isn ’ t late?
Hold on please.
I was wondering if this is where the Resume Writing Workshop is being held.
Boring? How can it be boring? It sounds very interesting to me.
And I suppose sitting at the desk all day in the office doesn't help.
We submitted two designs to our buyers, this one and one with the mug indented to form a grip. They chose this one.
The rent is $ 1050 each month.
I would like to go skating. Feel like going with me?
Sure. Why didn't I think of that?
Yes, of course. The balance sheet contains 3 major sections, that is, assets, liabilities and owner's equity.
No. Not at all. I'm quite easy-going.
Don't worry. I'll make you another on the house.
You too.Bye.
Uh... not normally. What do you have in mind?
I think that many physicians 8 now agree with that idea.
Good morning, madam. I'd like to apply for a library card. Can you help me?
What have you got this morning?
These postcards are great. I want to buy a dozen with different pictures.
How about a good historical novel? This one set in medieval France is excellent. The story is exciting and the characterization is very well done.
Great! Could you please bathe them later?
I am awfully sorry. I didn't think you would mind so much.
I already told you that I'm going to do it.
Well, let's try some braised pork, sweet and sour fish and some fried beans.
Ok, every one asks their parents let them stay out until 2 or 3 in the morning.
Yes, you may enjoy a seven-day holiday in the first year. After that, you can have two more days each year.
Are there any extra charges, like commission?
Yes, I ’ d better give her a call now.
They have two children-one son and one daughter-as well as one daughter-in-law and one son-in-law.
But Saturday is my birthday.
We have nothing on sale today. But we're having a big sale next weekend.
Great, have a good day, thanks again for the offer.
7:00 in my staying hotel.
You can ’ t just throw me out on the street!
"Actually, you can take advantage of our "" New Millennium Woman "" promotion."
The file for the meeting needs to be retyped and please send it to us as soon as possible.
Sure. I don't want to waste even a minute.
Are you aware that you drove through a red light?
So why aren't you driving it?
We'd prefer separate checks.
Sure! Let ’ s have some nachos and mozzarella sticks.
Talking about a barbecue, didn't you say you are organizing one next week?
you have good fashion sense, Karen.
Of course. What kind of soup do you like? Clear or thick?
You can ask questions about the position you are applying for.
How long is it?
How much is the fare, please?
You did an excellent job in this project.
we are checking in. May I have your ticket and your health certificate and your luggage please.
Well, I guess it might take some time to get used to.
Well, the cigarettes and the champagne are not in excess of the duty-free allowance. But according to our law, each passenger is allowed only one camera duty-free.You ' ll have to pay duty for the other one.
Oh... that makes me excited too!
It's room number 261.
Wow, you are going to be busy this semester! Okay, here you go. You are registered now. you ’ ll have to make your first tuition payment before classes start.
Excuse me, ma ’ am?
How long have you been like that?
Hmm, yeah, well this girl here at the back, that's leaning on the door, um, she looks really bored, actually. Maybe she is going to work or something and she doesn't want to go!
I'm not a very good singer, but I'm a really great dancer! I love hip hop dancing.
it's kind of a big favor. I'm absolutely flat broke, and I owe my landlady $ 200. she's given me until Friday to give it to her, but I don't get paid until next Monday. Do you think you could loans
Haven't been sleeping well recently.
Yes. Oh. by the W..
Do you like playing tennis?
I do wish I could lose weight.
We quarreled yesterday, and he picked up and left.
Model it for me.
Hello, George.What ' s up?
Certainly. ( He brings her the sauce ) Here you are. Can get you anything else?
Can you tell me how to improve myself?
Thanks for your understanding.
Scraping is too terrifying. When they finish scrapping, your body is all red, as if you were just tortured. Cupping is the same, your body ends up with red circles all over. It looks like someone beat you up.
I see. Thanks for your help.
He is a lawyer.
I will let her know where you are.
When can I expect to have it?
I am afraid you are right. Recently, even going upstairs makes me out of breath.
I'm exhausted. My new exercise class is so hard ,
Yes, I joined the CPC when I was a freshman
I ’ m making a deposit today.
No, but I did notice that she was very interested in the art supplies!
Really? That's wonderful!
In what business are you most interested in this organization?
What does Mona like to do?
I got the ticket in front of my apartment.
Hi, Mr. Smith. I'm Doctor Hawkins. Why are you here today?
Shall I pay extra charge?
And a white sports car.
I can believe it, and I am very excited about it.
Would you describe yourself as being a heavy smoker?
Ok, 90 dollars, do you accept this card?
Alright, let's go.
Excuse me, what's the screen near your steering wheel for?
The one smoking a cigar.
Please send us your best offer and state payment terms and time of shipment.
They took full advantage of the lights being out.
Oh, I see.Thank you.
Let me pay for it.
that's not a problem. Have a nap if you can. You don't know how tight the schedule is for this business trip.
Yup, It’s all set.
In that case, I guess I can rest assured.
That's horrible. I'd be happy to give you the assignments from English class.
How did you two meet?
Well, breakdancing is more a physical exercise than a dance.
What's your products ' competitive edge?
The lyrics of the new song are beautiful, too. Can you sing?
Why did you choose Applied Sociology as your major?
Are you new here? I come to this coffeehouse often. But I didn't see you here before.
Certainly, but will it take long?
Well, I'd like to pay by cash.
That's good. It's good to hit the books, but you need to get out once in a while.
I am Molopo and my room is 5022.
Mostly short business trips, but sometimes long ones are also needed.
It might be. You'd better take a heavy sweater with you.The nights are usually quite cold at this time of year.
The numbers in this table don't seem to be in accord with reality.
I like people who are open and friendly. Those people are usually more active and fun to be with. I like spending time with my friends. We go to bars together or play sports together.
Do you like working in teams?
What's the problem with Sons?
They're quite popular now. Wasn't her voice good?
That'll be most helpful.
I want to take them to court for arresting me.
You did it yourself? Wow, you are good!
I really love their dancing. They are all excellent dancers.
Is there a penalty for having an overdraft?
I'm going to be doing a lot of extra reading.
Is the weather usually like this here?
That's really a good thing. Let's do our part.
That's okay, I'll just check back later. Do you have the new Sting album?
Did you really?
Sure. Where shall I meet you?
No, just a small one. Next let's sing ' Happy Birthday ' to Mary.
That's the purpose of the meeting. Sometimes a mediated conversation will straighten things out, and a little discussion and apology can calm the waters.
What's this city famous for?
Keep going until I tell you to stop.
Ok, I guess. My boss has been on my back recently.
Then why are so many guys so crazy about it?
Yes. I have three sons. Actually I also have a grandson.
Oh I ’ m learning very slowly. I think Chinese is more difficult than English.
Waiter, a table for two, please.
It's almost impossible to get the right balance. If you are too strict, kids might ignore you. If you are too lenient, they might go wild.
The dress looks beautiful. Can I touch it?
Good Morning Ann.
I hope so. Did you know the US successfully sent two robotic explorers to Mars last month?
I agree. Reading for fun is why all the English students at our family school have excellent English. All the students read 800 easy storybooks during their second year of studying English.
Why can't I just stay up until I fall asleep?
It will be $ 850.
He would be good.
You know.. I have a weakness for long dresses.
They're discussing whether they should replace Miss Smith, the Music teacher.
Well, it's about fifteen minutes ' walk.
And maybe you suddenly have new interests. I mean you suddenly begin to do things you used to avoid, ie.You used to sleep in every morning, but because she jogs every morning, then you begin to like jogging.
( After arriving on time ) Here's twenty dollars.
I'm sorry, Sam. I don't want to go to the folk concert.
Gosh, it's already 10.Stay here if you like.
Not really. By the way, I don ’ t want a pet that could be dangerous, like a tarantula or rattlesnake.
O. K. Ticket, please.
What's the exchange rate today?
Pardon? The line is bad. Don ’ t hang up please. I ’ ll have the call transferred to another line.
hi. Could you give me a hand with this report?
I guess I was stunned for a moment, then I quickly ran away to get help.
Oh! I heard that he loves to boss people around.
Well, when the finish is dry, the table is done.
I'll dig out the Frisbee and my kite from Taiwan.
You made a good choice, then?
I like to apologize for the problem. Please come down with your receipt and sweater to exchange it for the size you want.
No, thanks. I've had enough. Now, Mary, before you blow out the birthday candles, you have to make a wish. After that, you may cut the cake.
Yes. I specialized in English secretary studies at college and that's one of the main parts of my present job.
He can't write very much on a card, mum.
Oh hi, Linda, this is Todd.
Can't we go faster?
Let's write it at once.
You're right. I'll take them all.
Don ’ t be fool. I ’ ll always side with you.
Take a look inside.
I like that. Then the adults will be more free to mingle and relax.
Our restaurant is famous for its seafood.
Hi, Sven, can you help me? Could you hold the end of the tape measure, please?
I'll turn the heat up.
Yes I see. But you decided to leave them in 2006, right?
Could you make an offer on FOB basis?
Will you apologize to her?
I tend to stick to fruits, vegetables, and chicken.
Good morning, I want a room tonight.
So you knew it was me?
So next time, I'd better take a few sips, to ' save face ' at least, right?
Thank you for your visit to our company. I'd like to make an introduction for you. Is there anything in particular you'd like to know?
It will be summer. So it will be hot.
Well, with perm we can do very kinds patterns such as bob, chocolate hairstyle or bang.Which do you prefer?
It depends. Sometimes I am very busy.
Can I get you anything to drink? :
According to the book, it is. I ’ Ve never seen a building that is a perfect cube. Look at the building. From the air, it looks like a square with a semi-circle attached to each of its four sides. What kind of building is it?
I do, that ’ s why you should appreciate this gift!
That would be great. I am really in the mood for a spicy hotpot. Any special reason for the invitation?
In my parking lot, at 2pm.
Excuse me. I wonder see Dean Mr. Lee first. I was wondering if could you tell me where his office is?
OK. I don't mind going bar hopping with an expert like you.
Sounds like a lot of work!
Automatics are very simple to drive. The first thing you should do is put your seat belt on.
It's fried sole.
Which account are you making this withdrawal from?
You weren't going to tell her about chitterlings and hog maws, were you? Well, my Creole ancestors never ate that stuff. We have refined French tastes.
We'll go to your house and repair it on Tuesday.Ok?
I ’ m sure it will be wet when we arrive.
Could you wash some of my dark clothes with yours?
It’s unbelievable. He used to be such a rough guy.
Thank you. The same to you.
I like the mountain idea, but I am not so sure about the month of January.
( Later ) Everything looks tempting. What do you want to have?
But don't you think it's a little too cold?
Very good. How many goods do you have?
I'd like it medium-well.
Well, here we go again.
OK. Good night, Mr. Smith, Have a good sleep.
Yes, she is my favorite girl. I've decided to go steady with her.
Fine. They look nice. I will take both of them.
They teach regular characters.
I ’ m sorry, but how do I know the subway train is going south?
Oh, I'm sorry.
Yes, they have three grandchildren-one girl and two boys.
I'm not sure. What's the difference?
OK, anyway, let me have it.
Can't you make it seven weeks for the prints?
Didn't you get the memo?
The washer costs 50 cents and the dryer costs a dollar.
I can ’ t find my purse. Have you seen it?
Just some soft drinks and only a bottle of beer.
no, they were really easy on him. The problem is that that was a long time ago. They are much tougher on crime now.
Alright, then please put it in a bag and take it outside.
yeah, why not? We've already pigged out as it is!
Something's wrong with my computer.
I'm sorry. I have nothing here.
So what? His father is in prison, not he.
There is so much information and I advise to read newspaper.
Show us our itineraries, please.
The world changes, the family changes too.
Can I help you, sir?
It says it's $ 1600. But if you share it with another person, that's only $ 800 per month.
I want to ask you for a favor. I want to rent an apartment here in Beijing, but as a foreigner, I don't know the normal practice. Can you give me some advice?
Oh I see, okay. So I heard you got married. Congratulations!
Thanks. I'd love to. What time is the show?
Stolen? No, why?
That's a great idea. Let's go... Oh, the dance hall looks very nice and the music is wonderful.
On a cell phone?
No, don ’ t worry. Just follow me.
Do you really enjoy such dangerous sports?
Yes. Please tell him that he is expected to have an interview with the CEO of ABC company tomorrow morning at 10:00.
I promise I will personally guard every single one and they will come back in perfect condition.
Take this medicine three times a day.
how time flies. But hey, how are things going with you?
Mrs. Lee, I ’ Ve stayed here for almost a week. And I really must leave tomorrow.
Its already very cheap. Let's make it 6 000 yuan.
Excuse me, sir, Is this the road to the peace Store?
They said I need a new hard drive.
My long-term goal is to become an expert in this field.
Do you hear what happened to Sally?
What basic principles do you apply to your life?
Group companies can use this to make their arrangement of funds flexible, when dealing with their subsidiaries.
It could be. There are floods in this country almost every year, but in recent years they have been more widespread and more frequent.
But if he doesn't listen to the teacher carefully, he won't learn anything.
I don't think I can manage this morning. I wonder if we could after the time of meeting to tomorrow afternoon.
Well. I am a traveler from China. Would you please mail to China?
That will do. What an interesting picture! How old is it?
Yes. that is a very good idea. It would be a shame if we could not find a place to sit.
We're ready to place our Christmas order and we need a formal bid.
You don't see what happened to my bumper?
Did she mention anything else?
Do you have the classrooms open for the whole night?
I doubt it. Last time was an oral train wreck. Listening to her talk is like chewing tin foil.
Yeah, what was all that stuff about running tests about anyway?
I highly recommend you quit soon. The longer you smoke, the harder it becomes to quit.
I need the police.
No, please don't. It's is for my personal use.
When I have confirmed the times with the owners, I will e-mail you our plans for the day.
You didn't do anything but sneeze this morning, and you can't do anything this afternoon like this. Gee! You've got a fever.
I will be letting you know during the year if you have a major problem.
Yes, I would. I need to buy a textbook for my course and, as you know, I love browsing through the latest paperbacks.
What's your name, please?
Yeah. But he just didn ’ t listen.
Rise and shine! Sleepyhead!
No, I'm sorry. That's all I have. Unless you take a credit card.
How about we go to the flea market today?
Mom!!! Please. All my friends have had it for years.
Oh, just one.
How many children do you have?
If I were him, I would give him a good talking-to. I would insist on his stopping fooling around like that.
How do you like this dress?
Hi, Bill.It ' s Marsha Black at MPPD Ltd.How are you?
Will it take me long to get there?
You should use the A4 paper is all right.
I don't remember the last time I listened to AM radio.
I didn't get it yet.
You can take a bus.
Your request for compensation makes me surprised. What happened?
that's quite expensive. Who is their target audience?
This is tough to say, John, but I think we should break up.
I know, dear. I am too. But we've just been too busy to look for a house.
Would you like to do something tonight?
I like it too. But Sense and Sensibility is my favorite.
Where did you see it?
It's an excellent one. I like it very much.
I see. But why don't you continue to work as a teacher?
Still, you must have had some subjects you enjoyed more than others.
a left girl? What's that?
Okay. Everyone else's parents let them stay out until two or three in the morning.
Ok, I promise. So what's troubling you so much?
So you're leaving this evening, we ’ ll keep your bags until 6pm, here is you tag.
Let's take a roundabout way.
That's because he's getting nervous. Anyway, this is the first time he's directed a play.
I am sorry, sir. You bought it 2 weeks ago, and you can only refund it in one week.
Should I take some medicine?
Drop me at the Manhattan Post Office.
Oh, well you don ’ t want this bus, anyway. It goes to Georgetown.
One economy, please.
I had a stomachache.
She feels you gave me the freedom to be able to assist her and she appreciates that. Come on, Let's indulge her.
We just moved in yesterday, actually.
Yes, what kind of room do you want?
They are working in another factory to provide maintenance right now. Let me call them and see whether they have solved the problem. Please wait a moment.
I wonder if you can change it to one size down.
( At the zoo ) Wow! This zoo is really huge.
Hello, Mrs. Taylor. I'm here to pick up Diane.
He ’ s 21. how old is James?
I would always be ready to go shopping with you! Should we talk about other basics?
No. Not anymore.Mine is highly educated but traditional family. Most South Korea families today are a lot smaller. In traditional families, the old people are well respected and taken good care of. Ho
Hello. Can I speak to Anne?
No, but I ’ m planning on visiting Australia and new Zealand soon. I ’ Ve heard that they are beautiful countries. Which is the most beautiful country you ’ Ve been to?
Well, let's get a plate of those then.
How about 50 yuan?
And can I have some ketchup, please?
OK. I am going right now.
The same for me. We'll keep in touch with you.
I know, but it seems like such a shame to have to take it away.
Better than ever! You won ’ t have to worry about “ finding ” extra money for me anymore! We made nearly a quarter of million in profit last year!
What would happen if they started attacking you?
It just makes my eyelashes curl upwards.
Could you reserve a copy for me?
I'll get on that right away!
Me too. I will probably go dressed in a T-shirt and jeans.
( Pause a few seconds ) They say Mr. Chen is an honest, hardworking and responsible man who deeply cares for his family and friends.
You peel the onions and wash them, then chop them.
Very well. You aren't in a hurry, are you?
I look forward to having dinner at your restaurant. Thank you for your help.
You look so tan and healthy!
Sounds like a good car! How many miles to the gallon?
When you filled out your Continued Claim Form, did you show that income?
Thank you, sir. We will phone you as soon as we have a vacant table.
Yeah, you ’ re quite right and what ’ s your hobby?
For the past 3 years, I have been working in China East Airlines Corporation Limited. I'm very tolerant of people and have been told that this is one of my strengths. I feel I have a lot to offer as a team member.
But I also heard some people didn't like her music. I don't understand why. She is so amazing!
Good for you! Have you seen Kelly recently? Is she still dating nick?
We didn't pay attention to the environment, cut down trees and polluted the air.
No i am free, i will be there, what time the thing starting?
They are both spicy hot, I've heard.
Hello? Ms. Patterson? This is Bill from Workmate calling. I'm just wondering if you had a chance to look over the estimate I sent for your gala dinner project next month... As I said in my email, we can help you with production according to your needs, but we will only be able to give insite management support services on a limited basis.
Then, why didn't you do that?
The tallest one.
Well, flying kites is more fun to me.
You can ask the teacher for help.
I hear your daughter graduated from high school as the valedictorian.
Very interesting. Thank you for bringing it to us.
I'm so glad I bought this watch!
Thank you, Mr. Jackson.
No, your uncle Jack is my brother, Bill is my brother-in-law, your mom's brother.
I ’ m sure they are. Oh, and a local man won the lottery. I ’ m so jealous! I wish it were me! I buy a lottery ticket every week and I ’ m amazed that I haven ’ t even won a small prize yet. It’s so unfair!
Oh, you actually do that?
Thank you for noticing! I've been making a few lifestyle changes over the past year.
I am trying to get to the Royal Hotel. Do you know where that is?
Is it a four-door or a two-door?
This is the Front Desk. I'm afraid that the air conditioning in your room needs repair. We would like to request you to change your room. We are very sorry for the inconvenience.
I'm sorry I'm late.
Good. Let's shake hands on this successful transaction.
That must impact your bottom line at least a little bit, doesn't it? After all, your sticker price is pretty much set in stone. How much do they go for retail?
I'd get it myself if I could.
Thank you for caring enough to check on your scores ; keep studying!
I think you'll love this pan. Do you want to pay with cash?
Yes. But he is meeting a client.
Next week, It’s going to be quite a shock for him!
I think I ’ d go lonely if I do like that.
Why not have a visit to the zoo?
Consumer Credit Department. How may I help you?
We've managed to reduce our energy consumption in our factory by about 15 per cent in the last two years.
Would you excuse me?
You'll be OK. It's just a little bit...
This price is the best we can make.
Have you been working hard recently?
Sorry, we haven't made the decision at all. But we should be making the decision by the end of this week. And we'll get in touch with you once we make it.
Hello, I would like a room please.
Wow, you ’ Ve inspired me to do something!
That ’ s understandable. Every kid likes new clothes.
You can apply for one here.
I'll be back tomorrow with my work clothes and a gallon of lavender paint! You just sit back and relax!
I used to work for a shipping company for six years, and I am quite familiar with some managers. Would your like to meet them?
That's great and it was your first try.
What can be done then?
Thanks. If I am interested, I'll go to the library.
OK. I've set it up for you.
Oh, so organic vegetables are the ‘ green ’ option, right?
En, you are right, and he will trust us and maybe the contract will be signed soon. But remember to keep some skills of our manufacturing secret. On one hand, show his our best side ; on the other hand, do not show too much to protect our own business secrets.
The river in my city sometime freeze over. People go ice-skating on it. In summer people go boating on the river. But few people go swimming because it is not very clean.
Mr. Black, I don ’ t think my boss will talk to you. It’s a Chinaman ’ s chance.
That's great! Can you give me the key to the locker? I can't wait to have a try.
You are in good shape. Figuring in your other expenses, you can easily afford a house costing seven hundred thousand or maybe even a little more!
Got it. What else do you see?
In the discus throw, you scored 30 meters at the final throw. How did you make it?
Well, any bank will cash it at our present traveler's check buying rate, for which we ’ re somewhere cheaper than hotels because of the service charge. You see, hotels really aren ’ t in the money exchange business although they will cash traveler ’ s check for their guest.
Yes, Cantonese food is lighter while Shandong food is heavier and spicy.
What color is her hair?
Did Roll win the race?
Is that yellow bus it?
You mean Mary?
I attend an aerobic class three times a week.
Yes, everything.They don't have the most expensive brands, but their quality is usually decent.The main thing is, they have good prices, and they are very convenient.
Sir, leave the house if the fire draws any closer to your house. Our men will be over in 5 minutes.
Did he give you any advice?
But it's worth it. Maybe it can get us into a good mood and also helps us learn something to use for the future.
Switchboard. Which extension would you like?
Have a good time!
Yes, sir. Most of us had positive review in last quarter. Take Fred and David for examples. Both of them try their best to achieve the best. Their progress is distinct, especially in last quarter.
This is the result of women ’ s liberation.
Well, sir, your insurance looks good, but I still have to write you a ticket.
Welcome! Welcome to Little Italy. We're the most Italian family here!
Wow. What does his look like now?
I'm studying law.
Let's just hope my teacher agrees.
Great. I'll see you at 6. Do you know where it is?
My mother-in-law used to do the same thing to us. If it wasn't disciplining them enough, then we were disciplining them too much. She also complained about the food we fed them, the schools we sent them too, and everything else under the sun.
Ah, Oh! Are you hurt?
I usually don ’ t have time for a bath in the mornings, so I just take a shower. Sometimes I need a cold shower to wake me up and sometimes I need a hot one, especially if It’s winter and I need to warm up.
OK, Lucy.It ' s your turn.Are you ready?
We, I ’ d like to go to Australia. I know It’s far to go, but I think it would be something different and special.
Yeah. And that ’ s so funny because most people prefer watching sex and violence to watching something more educational!
I'll have Chicken and Ginger Burger with Chilli Dressing.
We came too early. There're still three hours before the performance starts.
What happened to your brother?
Did you enjoy yourself there?
I don't know. Where?
I know! Anyways I just talked to Alex ’ s best man and he is organizing the bachelor party It’s gonna be so much fun! All the groomsmen are thinking up all the wacky and crazy things we are going to do that night.
What do you want to get?
But my friends will have jobs and lots of fun, while I spend all my time doing reading and writing.
That is a long flight. You had a layover too, is that right? You must be tired.
Good morning, what can I do for you?
Did you ever get a parking ticket?
In half an hour. The surface of the lake is calm.
How ’ d you know?
now I can tell you're definitely addicted to the overflow of information.
The Grand Hotel.
Mmm, how much is it?
Actually, I had a perfect plan for this afternoon, but it is totally ruined by the sand storm. I woke up this morning and found it was sunny. So I called Lucy and asked her to go shopping with me. We were going to look for a new purse. Now it turned out to be like this. Neither of us wants to go to outside anymore.
How dare you be so inconsiderate? That's wrong.
Show biz stars have plenty of expenses. That ’ s why they need so much money. They need million of dollars to buy big, seclude houses and wonderful dresses. I bet most show biz stars would prefer to wear jeans and a t-shirt, but they can ’ t because their managers force them to wear clothes they don ’ t like.
But they ’ re very nice, you know.
well then, what are your spoils?
That might be true.But we have a logo concept that is great. It is really great. I think it will catch on in Taiwan at least. Young people will love it.It is because of our logo that our products will sell.We just need someone to produce the products for us.We have the backup and people to do the marketing.
Today is Thursday.
Where can I get a good novel?
Recently I have been getting headache and my eyes don't seems to see focus properly.
If you don't like beer, have you tried mixed drinks? Some of them are pretty good.
Just to the bottom of my ears. By the way, I'd like a shave, too.
I am a good accountant and have a thorough knowledge of the English language.
It sounds great, and is it really cool there?
I'm coming for the job you've advertised in yesterday's newspaper.
I am having some plumbing problems and need them fixed.
We should particularly pay attention to acknowledgments in the interview.
Good morning. Do I need an appointment?
We have shuttle buses leaving for the airport from downtown every 20 minutes The bus stops at Holiday Inn as well. Be sure to get on the bus before 30.
what's that for?
Yes. Beautiful, isn't it?
I'll try a steak sandwich.
have you ever tried tempura?
How do you spend your free time?
I want some computer games also. I gave my parents a really long Christmas list.
That would be a lot of help.
Can you use the thinning shears on top, too? My hair is really thick.
What's the rate for a station wagon?
Oh, I took a shine to him when we met for the first time. But it comes and goes.
But we need the exact time. What time?
How do you use an ATM card, billy?
The same question to you.
John, I ’ d like you to meet Charles Brown, our new manager at the airport.
Thank you, Dad.
That ’ s right. Spraining the ankle and breaking the leg are the common things during the match.
Did you see the posting for the electrician apprentice program?
Why don ’ t you apply for one right now?
Where are you studying and what's your major?
Really? Why not? I hear It’s pretty good.
Yes, I ’ m pleased to see that you also got a distinction.
Well, both have advantages and disadvantages.
I couldn't find the files you request, even though I checked all the cross-references. I don't think it's there.
What are you going to do for your year abroad, Tim?
No, you should always be upfront and honest about your weaknesses. However by focusing on your strong points and maintaining a positive attitude about your abilities, you can take the attention
but for what reasons? She doesn't even know who I am.
I ’ ll make the call and contact you when it gets in.
Well, do you think I have to?
I guess so. What else can we do? You can ’ t stay in the heat for long.
Okay, I'll be down there shortly.
Not just yet. I have one or two questions. How much for a single?
Yes, I do think I am the right candidate for this position.
I have a terrible toothache.
What are you talking about, we tried everything!
there's not a very high demand for that kind of job, is there?
As the saying goes, work value work, play value play. All work and no play make a jucky-dull boy, you know.
I believe that was a wedding present to both of us, Joanne. And you hardly ever use it!
Yes, the rate for cash purchases is listed on the electronica screen, so you have seen the rate of exchange.
I don ' t think that ' s a good idea. I am just not good with approaching someone and starting up a conversation.
Where is the Human Resource Office?
Hush... OK. What is it?
Good. Why do people name it Olympics?
No, I don't think so. I'll be too busy having tea in our new tea room.
No more, thank you. I'm quite full.
In my opinion, a secretary must be familiar with office routine and try to do some things by you. This is the filing cabinet and any document or file you may need. And you should file these documents in alphabetical order.
You are kidding.
It's not so wise that you do not explore the children's market.
That's really my pleasure to listen to a Chinese song.
Good morning.May I help you?
I ’ Ve made up my mind not to be beaten again.
Well, open your mouth and let me have a look. It is nothing serious. You haven't got a fever. But you should take the medicine and need have more rest recently. When you feel well, you could take more exercises, or play sports like basketball, running, and swimming. And eating healthy food, having more fruits and vegetable and drinking milk are good for your heath.
Well, now I've seen it all! What a rip-off this place is!
Maybe later. I think we have a medicine-kit.
I don't care what other people think. I am ready for a lift.
The furniture is built extremely well.
I don't think you'll be disappointed. People really seem to like the swim stations.
Where are you living?
I'm not very particular about the design.But I want something of good quality.
Yes, we had a meting about it yesterday afternoon.
No problem. I am used to it.
I will get right on that, and I am very sorry.
It’s Saturday, a great weekend.
No. but I'm gonna. You know, several months ago, I backed into red Honda when parking.
I haven't got enough evidence for prosecuting him.
Did you need help finding anything else?
OK. I would like to have my receipt report, please.
that may be true, but when a woman gets pregnant, it changes her life completely. Men can still carry on with their lives after the birth exactly as they did beforehand.
That's coincident 。
Yes, that's great. Thanks.
What airline and what flight?
Sometimes you can save money and you can find things that you had difficulty finding in a store. sometimes it's just convenient, like doing it late at night and sometimes it's just fun.
You can ask her out for drinks after work.
Here's some flowers, love. Happy Valentine's Day.
Another question. Could you tell me the earliest possible time of shipment?
Two burgers, please.
Well, Mark Smith, who was the first president, founded the company in Ottawa in 1955. It has 1.5 billion dollars in capital.it employs 8,000 people, and it is the largest company in its field in Canada.
Don't you agree with me that in the long run, moderate prices will bring about large sales and more profit?
Do you get paid overtime?
I'll try all of those. How do you know so much about International food?
Exactly, I overheard a manager scold his employee in the elevator this morning, they were from the company on the 12th floor, I guess. They were only three of us in the elevator, I felt very embarrassed to be in the middle of them.
Quite good, I think. I came here by bus, and it took me about 15 minutes.
I can't believe the boss was absent from today's meeting.
Hello, I am Richard from the Brooks Head-hunter company. Can I have a private talk with you?
Betty, would you please read this letter of application I've just written? I'd like to have your opinion.
Actually, it suggest English. The main argument is that English is already being studied as a second language in most countries-china, India, mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, and japan. So beginning again with a language like Esperanto would be wasteful. The second argument is that English is used in modern technology far more that any other language. Most emails are sent in English and the vast majority of website use English.
Oh, please do not mention it any more. Last night he did it for the first time.
Oh, no. That ’ s it. Nice to chat with you. Have a good day.
Maybe you should talk to the teacher.
Yes, I have nothing to do.
Yes, please get some white bread, thick cut, some ham, not the processed stuff, some gouda cheese, some galla apples and...
Let me take a look. Maybe I can figure it out.
All right. How much would you like to change?
I went to the doctor the other day. My cholesterol is up.
Ok, I'm Tom.
That ’ s a nice dress. It’s very smart.
Don ’ t worry, I will teach you how to win.
Of course not. People all over the world watch it on TV, or listen to it on the radio.
He is surely a hard nut, nobody likes approaching him.
Okay. Do you have a special location in mind?
What other kind of food do you like?
I like beefsteak very much. Have you tried Chinese dishes?
Yes, It's only 8 forty. Thanks so much!
Ah, hello, Mr Was. I'm just calling about your new credit card. It has arrived with us, so you can either come to collect it, or we can send it on to you.
Okay. I ’ m his wife. Could you tell him to call me back when he returns?
Yes. My only recreation is skateboarding.
Yes, here's my ticket and my driver's license.
Well, when you do your darks, can you wash some of mine too?
Congratulations. What did you do during the interview?
I made a little bit of money, but not much.
You must have been really hurting for cash to have done that.
I would like to meet with you to discuss some discrepancies on our payroll account.
OK, it's 672910.
We can inform the department in charge and ask for revocation of passport.
It's our pleasure to have you here. I hope you will have a pleasant stay here.
Look! This picture of Mom in her cap and gown.
Right now I'll teach you to open files, save files and copy files. Are you ready?
if you get the promotion, what will your new title be?
World Airlines, Flight 201.
I'll get them back right away.
You are an early bird, Tom. What do you do in the morning then?
Cheese! It tastes like cardboard.
John seems to be in high cotton. He may well become a big shot.
Really? Why? What happened?
20 to 1, in favour of the Cougars!
I will tell you ahead of time, that there is a lot to sign here, but I will help you every step of the way.
A good rest is all you need, and drink more water. I'll write you a prescription.
Oh, yeah, that's embarrassing when that happens.
I pulled you over because your brake light is out.
Sorry, may I have your name?
We used to be really close, but that all changed once she moved to Shanghai. How about your family? You didn't mention to your biological father.
Hi, Mary, can I have a minute?
good. I ’ m going to prescribe something stronger. It will make you feel drowsy, so you certainly should rest.
It should have gone around to everybody. They also posted a copy of the memo in the break-room. Don't you ever look at the messages posted on the bulletin board?
Ah, Michelle, hi. I was hoping to see you. How have you been? How's the family?
Cinct de mayo?
Ok, I will be there around 6. Is that ok for you?
Oh, right! Do you have many exams at the end of each semester?
Now may I check this book out?
Pineapple Computer Company. A secretary is needed there, and it is worth a try. Do you get any information or advertisement for employment?
What kind of dessert do you want?
I don't mind really.Perhaps a job in a shop or a factory.
I'd like to request some more amenities.
Got it. Can we see any things left by them?
Have you forgotten the cheers?
Good morning. I've come here to inquire whether I can get a visa to your country?
This is your breakfast.Can I put it here?
Where should we go eat today?
If you need anything else, please feel free to ask me
Why don't you go to the English corner to talk to your classmates in English quite often?
Mostly on how to exercise, but the best advice I got was changing my eating habits. Instead of eating 3 times a day, she told me to eat 5 times a day.
Oh, I get it. When did we decide to meet?
Is it easy to locate it?
Sounds not bad.
Yes, I ’ m looking for a pair of trousers.
We have many loans on offer. May I ask what the purpose of the loan is?
Do you shave every morning?
I ’ m a student from out of state, so I don ’ t have a local driver ’ s license.
My return date will be the 14th.
Well, we used to talk to each other before we were married.Remember?
Could you please tell me why?
Good morning, Paul!
Do you have any idea when you might arrive at a decision?
Thanks a lot
They look all right to me.
It's not the latest model, is it?
I see. When are you travelling?
It's fine with me if we go to the Latin Club. I like Latin Music.The only thing I never want to do again is listen to country rock.What was that bar called?
I would like to purchase it.
Great, the lamb stew tastes incredible.
Can I go in to look for a job at their office?
I see. That shouldn't be a problem, Sir. Which currency would you require?
No, thanks. I have had enough.
Then what shall I do?
No. We made an agreement that we would take turns doing the dishes. Now it's your turn to do them.
I'm a little nervous. I have never flown before.
You can get a dozen for only $ 20.
I am tired of everything in my life.
Hello. Can you tell me what the procedures of applying for a job are?
When are you available?
Well, I never drink alcohol, coffee or tea.
It's not what you're thinking. These events will give us a wider exposure than most. Take the tri-city marathon for starters. This is a highly publicized event. The television exposure alone will nearly double our customer awareness.
I had a long day today. I really am not in the mood to make anything.
yes, are you?
Then I'll shoot some pictures, re-size the images and upload them with text descriptions to my blog.
Nothing really, you?
Congratulations! I ’ m really glad to hear it! That should make balancing the books a lot easier!
Have you been under a lot of pressure lately?
Alright, do you have the receipt?
Like most students. I want to work in America after graduation.
yeah, I have the same feeling. Also there is another thing that bothers me the quality. Things in a department store are usually quality-guaranteed. But at a wholesale market, you never know whether w
Oh, yes. That's fine with me. Maybe we can have lunch together.
Okay, that'll be $ 6.85 with tax.
It's because our prices are so good.And this car has a lot of miles on it. But it's in nice shape, isn't it?
I kind of wanted to see “ The Secret Life of Bees. ”
What's the price difference?
You are wrong, Shirley. I was always absent-minded in the class. I meant to concentrate on the class, but I was just so tired. Maybe I am old.
Oh, yes, this is much better. But it has an aluminum handle.
OK. Let's go and see.
I am just reminding you about the time. You don't want to miss the plane, do you?
Oh, no. I ’ m leaving for Japan at eleven this morning.
May I have your room number, sir?
She's going to kill you.
I'm looking for a white purse as a gift. Could you show what you have in stock?
stirred or shaken?
I will pay it. Don ’ t worry.
Hi George! It's good to see you!
Alright. We should take a taxi over there right after breakfast.
Thank you. And when is the latest time for me to board the plane?
OK, 4000 yuan a month.
Yeah, it really is that simple.Every time there's a change in the items we do business on, you let me know. That's all you need to do.
You know, I often have to work til late at night. I need something to keep me awake.
Do you get angry easily?
I'll have a whole-wheat loaf, three white loaves, a baguette and ten rolls, please. How much is that?
May I leave message?
Good morning, Mr Wang.
Please fill out the table.
But I don't think she really loves him.
You can leave your baggage in our storage space, with a deposit.
Thank you for lending me the book.
No, I never wear suit in my everyday life. I just want one to take part in my sister ’ s wedding ceremony.
Are they genuine?
what kind of job do you want after graduation?
Did you call the police?
What seems to be the problem, kid?
Why? You mean a lot to me.
I prefer a variety show without a host.
I want to create a password for this document. Please tell me how to do it.
Really? Maybe I ’ ll do that then.
This doesn ’ t sound like anyone I know. I give up. Teel me who she is.
I don't know. He's a little depressed. He's having a hard time finding a job right now.
Read Jimmy's card to me please, Janey.
What did her boss say to you?
There will be another sandstorm here tomorrow.
What are you getting donations for?
Now this next dish is one of the most famous. Foreigners call it papaya salad but the proper name is Tom Sam. It is a spicy salad made from a mix of fresh vegetables including shredded unripened papaya and tomato.
I can't believe it. But if you both determine to divorce, I hope you will have an amicable split.
Are you kidding? It’s summer.
Certainly, ma ’ am. Just take these stairs down to the first floor and turn left. You can ’ t miss it.
I see. Thanks for these tips. We really need to buy a lot of little things.
I had some good financial news yesterday too.
Yes. So what else to do now?
How much are they?
Yes. Usually only towers are cylindrical in shape.
It's an e-mail. It says, We need to meet. I'll give you a sweet treat. It's not what you think.
I was pulled over for allegedly speeding.
Yeah, why, is there something going on Thursday?
Well done! I hope I can sing as well as you one day.
I bet you had a wonderful time
Because General, his dog, got sick.
I will get registered now at once. Do you know any training schools?
What do you mean? You didn't? Oh, no... No!
I was on a diet and exercised daily.
Good afternoon! Trans Pacific Airline. How can I help you?
Please fasten your seat belt, miss.
Where is our waitress anyway?
Besides Chinese, I can speak English and French.
Yeas, when will you buy a house?
What kind of question is that?
Help the patient bathe and change his clothes, nurse. Then bring him into the operating room.
You know, Mr. Allen, Nowadays this starting salary is not high based on my skills and experience.
Shrimp salad is our speciality, took
Maybe. I ’ m not sure why they have fashion shows like this. Hardly anyone will buy those clothes. The clothes you see are nothing like the ones that ordinary people wear. It seems like a waste of money.
No, not that much. And yes, that ’ fine.
Mary has really gotten under my skin.
Really? What can I do now? I can't miss the important meeting.
Yes, but you only pay 800 dollars a month. Emm, It’s hard to decide which is better, shorter commuting time or lower rent.
Hi, Monica, I got big news.
Is Friday good?
Bad luck, Anne.
are you sending them abroad?
I love it. It's so festive! And where did you get that cup? It's got the same logo as the car.
Thanks, Mary. You ’ re a real pal. I'll call now to set up an interview.
Thanks for inviting me. Here is the gift for you. Happy birthday, Francis! Many more happy and healthy years for you!
I need to stand behind this shield. Now you will take a deep breath, hold it, and let it out.
Mr. : There are two things that you'll need to know.
I ’ Ve got all the usual ones for word processing and then I have a few for creating and editing photographs.
What ’ s the matter with them?
There is no pepper here.
It's great! I like these places.
Thanks, I will appreciate it. How long have you been here?
I don't know how John can put up with his son, who fools around without working.
I have been working hard to stay healthy. I hope the tests turn out well.
I don't want to mark my table, of course.
I guess I might take a look at it.
No salt, please.
My first grandchild.
You should know that.
This area here is where we keep our raw materials. The main production area - our machine hall - is situated next to it. Maintenance is situated between the stores and the production area. Just to the right of Maintenance, there are steps up to the Lab and the Admin Section. Process Control is also on the upper level. It's located above the factory floor so that the operators can monitor everything that is going on below.
I put in two quarters for a coke, but nothing came out of the machine.
But what can you do?
Sometime around next week. What can you tell me about this apartment?
Yes. I've already got a fund account with you too.
She likes to golf, dance, and eat foreign food.
Arriving the 25th of September and leaving on the 28th? Three nights?
You and I have been together for a whole year, and our vacation time should be about the two of us!
Will this be debit or credit?
Do you mean the contract for equipment rental or the one for training?
Well, maybe not 100 percent. I did hear about some tricks people use.
hi, bob. I ’ m reading a biography?
What must I do next?
In this case, you should remember to give thanks for the reply you get.
you bet. Now that you mentioned it, I think I'll call her now and see if she is available tonight.
Hey, look at the tripod. I've seen it on TV.
I have to wear it this afternoon. Do you have a urgent service?
Do you have any particular hobbies, Tom?
Here is your receipt.Thank you.
Yeah. Can I look at this ring?
It's a portable TV. It's a popular thing now.
Excuse me, did you see a set of keys?
I want to buy some cleansing milk. What would you recommend?
Will she let you leave your present job?
I am sorry, sir, there are still 5 minutes remaining... OK, it's time. We will take a roll call before starting the fantasy sightseeing.
Outside, on the sidewalk.
Sir, did you enjoy your stay here?
Okay, so are you going to school tomorrow?
Too bad I was busy. I really wanted to go.
That sounds perfect.
I've got them.
How should I take this medicine?
It's... OH, it's the first of April, April Fools ' Day.
Oh, yes, you like skiing.
What? Where does that five come from?
I appreciate you frankness. Do you know anything about our company?
why? I think cats are ok.
Why did you transfer?
Yes, they're on sale today.
Yes. We ’ Ve taken care of all of that. We decided not to get married in a church though. Neither of us is very religious.
What kind of watch is it?
... Okay, I'm through. Here's the form and my old card.
Hurry up! The smile is frozen on my face.
Your main job is serving the clients and giving them what they want.
I ’ Ve been looking forward to meeting you. I am new to the working world and would appreciate your guidance.
It's unbelievable! They are only married for one month. Then who is at fault?
The price for one person for a ten-day tour is only 1,099 US dollars, which includes round trip airfare.
Is the traffic bad in the city centre?
Oh I still haven ’ t managed to get any tickets. I ’ d love to see something though.
I would like to buy some beef.
I love you, too.
I hope you enjoy your purchase. Good-bye.
Can you stand?
Hey! I thought you weren't interested! Sorry, I've gotta go! I'm going to switch over to eBay and see if my bid is still the highest.
We used to be really close, but that all changed once she moved to Shanghai. How about your family? You didn ’ t mention to your biological father.
Thank you. We'll inform you in time. Goodbye.
Who got ripped off?
Sheila, how about that fashionable blue dress?
Thank you very much. ( Take the pills. )
If you have any problem, please come to me.
What kind of cheese do you want.
My I have your name, please, sir?
I like the feeling then that school is almost over!
Let's see.Yes, I have the address and telephone number here.
Is that why it won't turn on?
I think, in some way it is an act of God, but in another way, it just is caused by us.
Morning, Jenny. Haven't seen you for ages!
Absolutely not! I'm not a thief.
Well, I remember walking pass the baker shop.
Sure here it is.
Okay, I'm putting together a report on the Allied Marketing Co. failure, and I seem to have run into a stone wall. Can you help me out?
Thank you very much for your dinner.
OK, sir. We'll try our best to serve you as soon as possible.
Well, I am really passionate about consumer behavior, so I pursued a master ’ s in that area. I also strive to keep my professional skills current, so I continuously attend seminars and conferences related management and customer service.
You can get cheap carpets easily. Another idea is to buy a rug. That would cover a lot of the carpet and you wouldn ’ t have to replace the carpet. It would save you a lot of work.
Clean it now. Only lazy people say they'll work tomorrow.
Yes, I need to refill it today.
I am sorry I am so late to work.
No kidding! What happened to Ad?
Has anything else happened to you?
I was told that the first time I came heer. I was told not to put too much pressure on my body at first. I need to build up slowly.
Is there anything you want to ask about?
No, don't replace it. Give a refund.
I will remind you to get off.
Where ’ s Wang Fu Jing?
That this book was lowkey awesome.
Oh! That's much hetter than I did.
Sure it is. I really hate to get caught in a traffic jam.
Oh, yes. It is a fantastic city. And I like German food as well.
Several things, for example, Various coins, stamps, stones and so on.
Yes. I like winter.
yes. I can show you examples of some footages that was taken with this camera in the dark.
How about your new co-workers?
Yes, of course. There are many steps. You can apply for the job on the Internet and then send your resume to the e-mail address of the company. And wail the feedback of the company.
I ’ ll buy you a drink.
Yeah, you never look at the positive side of things.
Mary looks so beautiful in the wedding gown, and I record the moment that I was bride.
No, it's D408, my parking space. I have already paid for it.
For this position we prefer e-resume at the very beginning. Please send it to our department ’ s e-mail box.
My name is Steven. What's your name?
I have to say that's just the result of difference of our consumptive habits.
What in your opinion can be done to stop smoking?
what about his hair?
It's hard to say. Perhaps swimming is my favorite. I like swimming because it helps improve my lung capacity. In the scorching summer days, there's nothing like a cool swim. Currently, I go to the pool twice every week.
Deborah already had her baby.
I accidentally ripped the cover.
Oh, in that case. This one is OK.
Stop complaining, OK?
I feel very miserable. I took the death of my wife very hard, you know.
Is 5 PM. a good time for you?
That sounds interesting. Okay, I'll get this one. Thanks for all your help.
Maybe we can go see a movie or something.
I think we can expect to get between 30 to 40 medals in total.
How can you cash them when you arrive in the United States?
OK. You have to fill out this form and let me see three identification cards or documents.
Yes. I have been here for three years.
Can you help me out, Chuck?
Oh, that ’ s better. So you don ’ t have to rush.
Okay. Keep in touch.
When was the company founded?
We do serve dinner.
OK. There is one on Wednesday.
will you get a pay-raise, too?
The bus will bring you back 6 days later on December 8th. Is someone coming to get you?
Sure, I ’ ll just go put the kettle on. Why don ’ t you have a seat on the sofa and I ’ ll go take care of things in the kitchen.
Yes. Why don't you try this one on.
No. 10 % is my last word.
You didn't have to do that!
Oh, I know that place. It’s only two minutes drive.
Really? That's something unexpected. You see, all our exports are strictly inspected before shipment. The goods were in perfect condition when they left the port.
That's terrific. Thank you.
It's because of the view.
We have successfully fulfilled our work plan. In fact, we are No. 1 in terms of market share.
Hello, Lucy, this is Monica. I ’ m calling for the accountant position. I saw the information about the vacancy on your company ’ s website. Is it still available?
One way trip. What's the fare, please?
I have got a computer engineer's qualification certificate.
Excuse me, is there a Post Office around here?
10:30. I'll pick you up at the hotel at 10:00. : 10:30.
That's not a problem. You can use that service wherever you are, it doesn't matter which country you are in at the time.
Shall we go to the library by subway?
Wow! Besides The Cosby Show, I've never seen a black sitcom. What's this program?
Yes, you must.
You have to type all day.
you ’ re right on the edge of the city, aren ’ t you? There can ’ t be much noise or traffic there. Is it easy to get into city centre?
The applicant must be alert and quick at figures, and like meeting the public.
But after all, it is your decision, not mine.
They ’ ll do the operation for you this Friday.
Of course. First of all, she must have a strong sense of responsibility.
All right, then. See you this afternoon.
I'd like a table for two, please.
Are you absolutely sure, Mr Zu? You know, you will lose interest if you do.
I'd like to pay my bill now.
That's an understatement. I'm on cloud nine. I couldn't be any happier.
I get on well with others.
The last straw, huh?
I'm afraid I'm not interested in fashion. There are so many other really important things in the world.
He'll do it. He's too proud not to.
Sixty? That's too much. How can that be?
The air conditioning is not working! We need to call a handyman before we start to fry in here!
She thinks it has about twenty-five or thirty thousand miles.
I ’ d be glad to. Just leave them on my desk. I didn ’ t expect you to finish so soon.
Before you go on, Ms Yang, could you tell us if the original EBB sold well in the U. S.?
Sour-peppery soup.
When are you going?
You know, her long lovely blond hair and beautiful blue eyes really make her stand out from others.
Are you kidding? You're going to cause an accident just from people gawking!
Both our countries are quite small. How would you describe the landscape in your country?
Coffee will be right with you.
Er... Is it far from here?
... sorry, her line is busy at the moment. Can I take a message?
Okay. Is your hair naturally curly or is it a perm?
I wonder how all the businesses in the area feel about that.
I mostly did advertising planning.
Because of pollution and other things, our environment has become worse and worse.
Can't you give me a warning?
Can we solve this later? I am calling the insurance company.
Lend you a few bucks? No way! Still remember the money you borrowed me last time?
Do you have any hobbies like playing tennis or things like that?
Our cousin went into labor and had her baby last week.
Thank you. Would it be OK if we have a cocktail while we are waiting?
I went out with Leo last night. It was really exciting.
oh, you must be very happy. How many people are there in your family?
Well, we can still carry on our business relationship without the agreement. To start the ball rolling, we will provide you with price lists, catalogues and some samples. Only when you have a thorough knowledge of the marketing possibilities of our products, can we then discuss further details.
Well, being able to go to the conference sounds like such a great opportunity. Have you applied at the embassy for a visa yet?
certainly. After years of hard work, I wouldn't miss it. By the way, where can I find cap and gown?
Are you sure? Then I'd love more beer please
Here is your working place. Nancy will come to show you how to set up the telephones. I'm going to call her now so that you can get started. Is that OK?
Yes. I just checked in, but I need to change my room.
I got caught cheating. I feel so ashamed. The teacher saw me and told me I failed.
It is because your children have grown up, and you haven ’ t lived with a child for a long time.
I know. If you're sure the truth will do harm, maybe you can choose not to tell it.
Certainly. Which flight would you like?
I ’ m all right, thanks. Just a little tired.
Do you think Bruce Willis just drank a Coke for his health?
Perhaps your letter is already in the mail! So, I can just upgrade automatically?
You ’ ll be lucky! However, I ’ ll print out the income 3ation I got from the internet and you can do it yourself.
wonderful! I think that's a great idea. How soon until we can make this happen? I can't wait!
I was at work, but the purchase was made at 3
I really don ’ t know.
Would you be willing to take a typing and shorthand test?
You can always get rid of channels or add some later.
Western food or Chinese food?
Yes, I am. I am from Taiwan. I came here to study political science.
First connect your laptop to the cable in the desk. Then open up your web browser.
It all sounds so relaxing. I wish I could get away to the beach like that.
Yes, but I still don't have many friends here yet.
Hi, Jim and Wendy. Where're you going?
I was wondering if you'd let me stay here for a few days.
Please, I promise this is the last time.
Yes. One more is needed.
Did she? That ’ s great. However, if we have too many children, that will have a bad effect on the enviroment.
What days, do you know?
Rebecca Johnson speaking.
There is a warrant out for your arrest.
alright, all joking aside, what kinds of moves do you like?
Sarah and I could see eye to eye with each other.
Do I get to choose who inspects the home?
Good morning, sir. What can I do for you?
( A moment later ) It's cute.The color suits my complexion.
Britain is half the size of france, but great Britain is still one of the largest islands in the world.
what about taking her for a dinner or a movie?
I don't think I can change it right now. Why don't we talk again tomorrow?
Well, please look at the employment contract. I'd like to go over the main details again before signing. First, you will be getting a monthly salary, and no probation is involved.
My fees went up, but I didn ’ t even know I had fees to pay.
Well, it's a fruit with a big nut in it.
how often do you usually cook?
of course. Is the dinner still on?
What date will our field trip be on?
Susan, I'm sorry. Did you look up those files I requested?
Yes, I do. Everyone.
All right. We have quite a selection for you to choose from. There are double rooms with twin beds, suites, if you'd like, we have presidential suite on the top floor.
You can also check out university bulletin boards.
Our advertisement says English competence is a key requirement of this position. Then how do you think of your proficiency in written and spoken English?
You don't sound too excited about going to your reunion.
Where did you learn to sing like that?
Great. Where can I get an application form?
You put the cup in the little cubby in the restroom and close the door to the cubby.
Okay. Thanks. Have a nice day.
Can you give me an example of a time when you had to work above and beyond your job description?
I don't think we can.
He is at the warehouse this morning.
That would be our Savers Plus account. You must pay 10 000 yuan into your deposit account. In this way you can get 5 % dividend at the end of the year.
Now tell me, what's your problem?
The next train will leave at 20 : O5.
Can I pay by a credit card?
No, they're giving us discount tickets on a honeymoon package in...
You know, stage fright is very normal, most people get nervous before they have to speak in front of large groups. Just prepare well, rehearse beforehand, and trust that you will be great... and you will be!
I need to go to the dentist.
What are your main concerns?
Yes, I'd like a glass of iced tea.
I think I'd better take that one you showed me just now. It is better than this one although this one is cheaper.
Thanks. I could eat a cow.
Business please. And I want the most simple one you have.
Really? Oh, well, in that case we should play together some time. What's your handicap?
True. ok Let's go to Grumose?
Here is my card.
I was born on April 15, 1986.
I ’ m sorry. Todd, but Mr. Emory felt that it was going too slowly, and that it needed a fresh start. He should have told you.
It really gets me interested. Is it higher than Kiang Shan?
No, not yet. I'm really worried.
Thanks. You're in room 507, a big, nonsmoking room, with a queen bed. Is that okay, sir?
Well, maybe I can put them in the airport storage there.
We offer a Personal Automobile Consumer Loan. The application process is pretty straight forward. I trust you have enough funds to cover the 20 % down payment?
Excuse me, can you suggest a good book for me to read?
Well. There's a beauty contest in Thailand just for fat beauties.
It is really a hot potato.
I seldom play tennis. I prefer football and basketball.
What's the matter, Lisa? You don't look too good.
That ’ s no big deal.
Because you ’ re leaving before your lease is over.
So, if the cause is poverty, there should be a program to make the country richer.If the problem is resources, share them.
Okay. Just stay in your car. We ’ ll be there in five minutes.
I guess I can do that.
How about As Long as You Love Me? You can pretend you're singing it to your fiancee Brooke!
What does the doctor say?
Is this Mr.Smith ' s residence?
Yes, that was probably it! It isn't fair.
Yes, there are. What cabin would you like?
No, ice will spoil the taste.
I'm sorry. I thought you wouldn't mind.
You have been here for how long? Four months now?
No, listen to me. Perhaps it's my fault that I treat everybody so well. Maybe in other people's eyes, I want you to be my girl-friend. but... but...
I heard that you are interested in our silk skirts and new style of coats.
Everything in this magazine seems expensive. You could probably find something similar in a discount store.
Being famous, I can do without, but I wouldn't mind being rich.
I am sorry to have kept you waiting. Mr. Johns needs a telephone call from you.
That's exactly why I decided to quit the job and find a new one.
Q-Duck? Do you mean the famous roast-duck store?
Well, they should have called you!
Nice to see you, Patrick.
So, can I buy some new shoes as a Christmas present?
How long have you been studying English?
I just want to remind you to behave yourself.
I'm older than you! I'll be ten on April 14th.
It was! But the worst thing was I tore my best shirt.
I'm sorry, sir. It's our policy.
I heard they were just married for half a year.
Could you tell me where the office is located?
Can I require the owners to fix the problems?
Something like a passport.
that ’ s right. You ’ re going away next week.
Shall we for go out for a meal this evening?
Is there a daily passenger ship to Dalian?
I couldn ’ t agree more. Actually, I ’ m a Beijing Opera fan.
We can buy the popcorn before entering the cinema.
It's a recruiting agency which specializes in introducing talented people to companies and businesses.
The answer for number 6 is C, 7 is B, 8 is A...
I'm sorry. He's not in right now.
No, there ’ s no need. We can change it within two days if It’s not damaged.
I am going to try Gado Gado.
if you know any of their friends. You can ’ t rely on your friends to introduce people to you all the time. You have to go out and make the first move sometimes. I also like funny people.
Thank you. See, I ’ m planning to buy a car here and I ’ m planning to use my time deposit here as the collateral.
Is there any special care I should take with your clothes?
I want to have a try later.
It’s not too difficult to make a good impression. For example, you should take care to appear well-groomed and modestly dressed. Avoid the extremes of a too elaborate or too casual style. This will put you on the same level as other applicants and make the interviewer consider more important qualifications.
Oh, honey, I'm so sorry, we don't have enough space for you to have your own room.
Since China was open to the outside world, its trade forms have become much more flexible. One of these commonly used forms is co-production. Would you please do a bit explanation of it, Mr. Walker?
OK. What's up, Madam?
What shall we do when we find a shortage in the shipment?
I'm free on Sunday. I'd like to take a look in Beijing City, could you tell me where to go?
Yes, stay in bed and drink a lot of water.Your fever will be gone in a day or two.
I've always admired doctors.
you're right. Most of their dishes have sweet sauces. We could try that Indian restaurant just down the road from us.
I don't know what kind of sandwich I want.
Good idea. How about a cup of coffee?
According to usual practices, we serve dishes first and then soup. If you like we'll bring you some soup first.
Yes, exactly, because I want these goods on our market at the earliest possible date.
Perfect! Please add on an order of onion rings.
The road ahead is blocked. There might have been an accident.
No, sir. We don't allow dogs or cats.
Anybody I know?
I had a bad start of the day. I was stuck in a bad traffic jam on my way and I missed my morning meeting.
Yes, I will. Thanks a lot. Bye!
Then you can write about his performance in college, including his academic achievements and his competence.
I'm not sure, perhaps around 8 pm.
Hi, sorry to have kept you waiting.
Out in the suburbs.It ' s a long trip to work every day.
That's okay. I like it better that way anyway.
I... I can ’ t breathe.
If you give your used textbooks to the person at the booth outside the door, he will reimburse you. Can you go over there today?
Really? I didn't expect that.
Who's the champion in this picture?
A party? Yes. I'd love to. Thank you for inviting me. Will Monica come?
I'm going to get one for myself. They make really good coffee here.
What's that? Don't tell me you've still got Christmas cards to write, it usually takes my wife a month to write all of ours.
Could I change these pounds for dollars, please?
I just don't trust you any more.
What would you like for a drink?
so, have you seen all three The Lord of the Rings movies?
6 o'dock in the evening.
400 US dollars. Here it is. Would you please give me small bills?
I don ’ t believe that.
I have reported it to the police.
First, you fill out the application form and then we'll issue you a passbook.
Oh, now I understand! So, you've already used up all your amenities?
Warm water can be good for your stomach, which is empty at that moment. And freshness can keep the water active to clean your digest system.
Here is the menu. Take your time.
Good, just make sure that you do the same thing if you ever need to drop a class. Good luck!
I ’ ll pick you up at... say, 7,30?
I'd just like a trim, and don't cut it too short.
Did you hear what she said to me?
Darling, I know you are a good husband. You don't have to work so hard. After all your health is the most important.
We should choose from the backups.
That was very thoughtful of you to volunteer me.
Are they going to be okay?
That ’ s why many people look up to him.
Yes. I have some travellers cheques and two credit cards.
Tom Black in Room 207.
Definitely nonsmoking. I can't handle that smell.
Oh, my dear sister, I am no longer a baby!
Yes, heavy starch in the collar please.
I guess It’s formal.
Will this be your first year?
Hmm, how about seven? I can treat you to dinner.
OK. Um, if you had to live in one place where would you live?
I heard Chinese medicine has a better lasting effect in cure.
Some of us will play basketball and some volleyball.
Don't be too critical. We can't expect it to be perfect.
Sorry, you ’ re not on it. I don ’ t think using my brother as a reference would be very convincing!
Where are we? This is not Altadena.
Well, I have to take biology, chemistry, maps and physics.what you need is a good introductory course for non-science majors.
I watched the screen display!
I passed history test.
I need it sooner. Let me have it in three days, okay?
So we can add her tip of $ 7.20 to the bill of $ 36.00 and the total will be $ 43.20.
The 17th will be fine.
Hope it all goes well. We're very busy at the moment and certainly don't want any problems at this time of year.
On second thought, you'd better make that second call at 7 thirty instead of 7 fifteen.
First of all, we change the motor oil and oil filter. If you don ’ t do this, it can cause your engine to wear faster and that means you would probably have to change the pistons and intake valves.
Hey! What is this?
But Dad, I should be working full-time at my age. I ’ m nearly 17.
The money goes in the slot over there. It has to be smooth to go in.
Oh, one more thing I forgot. You must let us know two months in advance if you want to stop renting within the contract. Otherwise, you can ’ t get your deposit back.
You mean half-and-half?
Well, the yearly interest rate is 5.49 % for 3 years. I'm sure you are qualified to apply for this loan.
Believe it or not. Everybody is talking about it in the company.
"Well, you asked for it. Why don't you put on an Elvis song for him. He loves "" The King. """
Pardon me, Miss. But didn't you order chicken soup?
I like your idea of getting a beer. I think I'll go out myself.
I would recommend a day at the zoo. It's fun for all the family. There is also a water park just outside the city if you would like a day trip.
Yes, you can have multi-accounts on the card, you can also make transfers from the account and securities companies and various other benefits.
It's nice of you to see me off.
Hold on a second, please.
Now with video rentals it's all a personal matter.
I'll let the bellboy know. Don't worry, he's very strong.
OK then. Well, I will work on my part and get back to you with my progress on Friday.
Give these sales figures a look. It's pretty depressing. We're way in the red this year. We can't afford to keep going like this for much longer.
Shave also, s ir?
It’s just nerves. Just play the right hand for now. One two three four five six, ta ti tri-ple-ti. Good, good. Don ’ t forget the accidentals! The key signature says that note should be a G-sharp but now It’s a G-natural. Now add the bass clef. You ’ re going too fast. Remember the tempo for this piece is andante.
This place is so quiet and peaceful. It’s really different from my pad at city.
I think I'll use my credit card.
That must be very beautiful.
I just love your hair that way.
Are you in Mrs. Green ’ s class?
Yes, there aren't any clouds in the sky and we've got such a beautiful view here. Look! This is St James Park. And there's Buckingham Palace
Can I have the ticket, please?
sure, since I came back from the US, I've been keeping the habit of blogging, simply to share my personal insights on any topic I like.
Here we are. This is Wangfujing Street.
I see.We had a table reserved for you.This way, please.
Hmm. Not bad. I think I look younger with shorter hair.
That means this one.
Oh, thank you very much.
I'm sorry. All the back of that size are sold out. Would you like a red one?
The fitting rooms are over there.
All right. But how?
Thanks, a coke, PLS.
I like that joke, but I hope it's true.
How do I get there on foot?
Attractive scenery, pleasant climate, these make it charming.
"Let me have a look at your throat first. Please open your mouth and say "" ah ""."
You're not going to get up in five minutes if I let you fall back asleep.
As you know, my city is on the coast.the water is also not clean. But people still go swimming all year around. I prefer to sand bath on the beach when the weather is hot and sunning.
That's fine. I want to pay in cash. Here is the money.
Yesterday. I was really sorry to see it end. The skiing was terrific!
Hi, Jenny. It's David here.
All right, see you.
Let's go see pandas! The news said that two pandas arrived at the zoo last week.
So the bill is $ 36.00.
I don't think you really want to hear about it.
I believe you can do a good job.
I've been married for about five years. What do you think about divorce?
I would like to try on one in violet.
Is that serious, doctor?
If you give me your address, I can mail you an information packet and the application forms.
Don ’ t apologize! From the moment I met you, not a day has gone by when I haven ’ t thought of you.And now that I ’ m with you again, I ’ m... I ’ m just scared, Veronica. The closer I get to you, the worse it gets. The thought of not being with you, I mean, I just can ’ t handle it! We were made for each other, Veronica. You are my everything, my soul mate. What can I do?
That means it will get hotter.
She ’ s your sister. What she asked was only duck soup for you. Why can ’ t you be good to her?
That is private information.
A moment, please.
My pleasure! This tea towel ’ s a little ragged. Do you have another one?
Can we have two adjoining double rooms, sir?
Sorry, I have no photo in my computer. And I have no scanner. I will show you later.
That's a little less than I expected. But to me, the most important thing is the job and the people I will work with. Moreover, I am sure I will get a raise quickly depending on my background and experience.
I'm going to need some more info first. I was wondering about the repayments. How long would I have to pay back the loan?
Yes, I'd like to get some gas.
I can type 100 Chinese words a minute and take dictation in English at 150 words a minute.
What would you say is your most positive quality?
Yes it is. Residents can queen up in the lines to my right.
Yes, I do. On a scale of one to 10, what would you say morale was in this company?
How unlucky! Let ’ s pack our bags and go home.
I am returning something that I bought yesterday.
Because I went out.
You are deadly right.
How long have you been in this company?
All right, but would you be so kind as to make up your mind soon? We're very busy just now as you can see, sir.
Sure. Please take a look at the model of the building. Nice Garden has a total of two blocks which are labeled Block I and Block II. Block I has a total of thirty-eighth floors. The thirty-seventh and thirty-eighth are penthouses. There are four units in one floor. The sizes of the units are one thousand square feet and one thousand and five hundred square feet. The size with one thousand square feet has three bedrooms and the biggest size has four bedrooms.
Well, we are finishing the shortlist interviews tomorrow, so we will certainly have a decision made by early next week. Miss Childs will call you to discuss more on Monday or Tuesday. How does that sound?
It's beautiful.
I can ’ t believe it! I have all my important personal documents stored in that computer. It’s no laughing matter.
Oh, no, sir. We already gave you a discount on each item.
I know! I don't get them at all. But wait, isn't ' Terminator ' a sci-fi movie?
What kind of job do you intend to do?
I think, first of all, I would ask the consignee to produce survey report on loading, if they can't produce that I would suggest them to refer the case to their shipper. Meanwhile, bad weather could be agood excuse to refuse the responsibility.
Kobe Bryant, of course.
Tom is a kind guy, but addicted to gambling. He spends all his time gambling in the casino. And his wife can't put up with his incessant gambling any longer, so she divorced him. Is that right?
Sure, what I can do for you?
Is it about Captain Jack Sparrow, who wants to find the treasure on the sea?
So how long do you plan to live here?
That's what I want! Do you need me to sign anything? Or fill in some forms?
If we have a major problem, will you let us know?
We have various kinds of wine. As for an appetizer, I advise you to order white wine or dry white wine.
Do I have paid vacation?
Yes, I enjoy working with people.
I'd like to buy some Chinese-style cakes. Could you recommend me some?
And what's Montreal like? What did you think of it?
That's correct. But before I do, I was wondering if you could give me some advice.
How can I go there to have a taste?
OK. Let me help you to hold the drink.
I ’ m sure you will enjoy yourselves.
That ’ s not a bad idea.
I've already made a hotel reservation for you, let's go to the hotel first and drop off your things. Then, I'd like to have a drink so that we can get better acquainted. I've booked a table at an exclusive restaurant downtown. Afterwards, I've made arrangements to take you to see the city lights. Seattle ’ s nightlife can be really quite exciting. How does that schedule sound to you?
Hmm. That's not too bad. Does it have a stopwatch?
No, it wasn't expensive. It was on sale for 20 dollars.
Hi, taxi.Could you take me to the financial street, please
Great! Uh, remember that there's a gift exchange, too. We all have to bring a gift.
Well, I haven't got much either!
It feels good.
I appreciate your help. Maybe I'll be back for more computer stuff.
yes, but is got angry with him too quickly. He probably thought that I mistrusted him. I shouldn ’ t have got angry.
It's got a built-in video camera so you can see the person you're talking to.It also takes stills and I can use the E-mail mode to send digital pictures straight to my friend's phone!
Oh, no. I forgot.
I think the only reason is that I was too nervous during the interview and I couldn't express myself the way I wanted to.
In my opinion, you ’ ll make it.
Yeah. He's a private eye now.
Yes, it's me.
The interview will take about 15 minutes, and your phone will be turned on in 24 hours.
The rate is still high for other foreign currencies. The exchange rate for Hong Kong dollars into Renminbi is 1.053 Renminbi yuan to one dollar.
It is a little high. I'm told that your hotel is offering discount now.
Ryan, this is Malia, and I need to call in sick today.
Well. He doesn't wear ties that often.
Could you just hold this for me?
Driving? No way, it's too far.
Pay more attention to the external expressions, because they are important for the first impression. Good manner and style of conversation can let other feel your good self-cultivation. Good gestures and mien can let other feel very comfortable.
How's your new car?
It's perfect! It's a Dilbert tie!
What does the driving test require?
Peter. Peter Brown, you know. Don't forget to bring the letter.
Thought about what?
I guess so. What about you, Simon?
Thanks. Good-bye.
What was the weather like in New York?
Aren't firecrackers forbidden in the city?
Actually, it could have been better.
Not right now. I've got to get another car and my old one is blown up.
That doesn ’ t sound too bad. Great for sunbathing! The coast of my country changes even within a few kilometers. There are cliffs, then sandy beaches. Then rocks. There are lots of caves in the cliffs. There are also many small islands off the coast, but few people lives on them.
Can I get a city map at the hotel?
May I see you around 10 o'clock tomorrow morning, please?
Well, we were talking and catching up on what we ’ Ve been doing, talking about work and family, when all of a sudden, Matt saw a mouse run under his chair and he completely lost it! He started freaking out, and screaming...
That's cool. Have you already found an apartment to live in?
Maybe so. But a law banning cigarettes will do no good.
I got $ 500 a week.
It is the best season to view red leaves from the Mid-October to the first ten days of November. During the period, thousands of hectares of maples on the sloping field are so red that you would recognize them as fallen petals by mistake if looking from a further area. The bright red, pink, scarlet, and peach-puff leaves are distributed in different layout, with some green pines and cypresses dotted in between.
What dose she look like?
Excuse me, This bus goes down town, doesn ’ t it?
I've received a full scholarship, so I won't need any other money to live off while I'm studying.
And I love trying new recipes, which I usually test with my friends. You can come, too.
Dalian is my hometown.
Hello. I would like to make a reservation at 8: 00.
Good, you can make your dream come true here.
For starters, you want to do a lot of scouting first. You've got to know what things cost.
Oh my God! I can't find my first period American literature class.
Well, I can't compare to you. I got a 3.1 in English 101. That means if you got a lower grade in English 201, it must be harder.
Oh, please. Only once lend your new car to me.
I have just received your note which informs me that you have offered the accountant position to another candidate. May I ask why I was defeated?
Okay, let's go to the cafeteria.
How do you solve the website problems when you ’ re buying something online?
Really? I ’ Ve never heard of it!
this movie have never disappointed me.
I didn't know you could exercise.
Is it a direct flight?
Are you staying at the Hilton?
The cold weather will damage the engine.
I don't feel like breakfast. I don't feel like anything. Why are we so unlucky? It's as if there were a jinx on us.
Friday's not good. I think the stores will be very crowded and I have to work.
Oh, that's right. Well, there are going to be many beautiful girls at the party tonight, anyway.
Yes, it is. Please put your luggage on this scale.
Goodness, we ’ re not having much luck here, are we?
Not really. Her eyes are blue.
Does your company have a large population?
Oh, yes. That would be lovely.
Hey, great set of wheels.
But I don't know how to work the Microsoft Words. Could you please give me a hand?
I ’ m sorry registration has closed.
The old page was okay, alright, but there wasn't a big influence in our sales volume, because the site wasn't developed with an eye towards the marketing aspect. Now it's different. We got our marketing department team in on the action, and the results are smashing...
how old is the house then?
I like you to come in and discuss some further tests that I would like to run.
You have no idea! There's a banquet with prizes, performances... you name it!
No. I want my money back.
Good morning, Jim!
Oh, yes, Miss Chen informed that the monthly management meeting has been changed to July 11 and I've marked your diary accordingly.
Excuse me, could you help me?
Hello, I would like to speak with Ryan.
Who else will come?
It's really nice of you. Thanks!
Well as I mentioned before, I do tend to get frustrated if I don ’ t see progress in my work or career. I suppose I ’ m quite a restless character. My father always taught me to be a high achiever.
What for? For the party, of course.
Honey, it doesn't matter. The key to play volleyball is to cooperate with each other.
Can you work part-time or full-time?
Oh, what a pleasant surprise! Don't you remember me?
Professor Donald, are you giving your advanced geology course again next semester?
Let's see... my ID card, my passport, and my suitcase. I'm pretty sure I've got everything.
Don ’ t worry. You can take night classes. I did that when I had kids. And soon your child will be old enough to attend kindergarten. Then you could find a job and work.
Hey, let's go for a spin. You can try it out.
Now, I'd like to get things under way. The main topic on today's agenda is the development of a U. S. sales strategy for the new EBB. I'd like to hear all of your ideas, Mr. Wall, you seem in top form today. Could you start the ball rolling?
Sorry. I'm afraid you couldn't.
Yes, It's John eng.
Mr. J. Smith.
Thanks, but I speak English with a strong German accent.
It makes sense, right? Who else is going to eat it?
Because the earth's environment can't tolerate cars forever. I think cars are already causing global warming.When the problem gets more serious, world governments will have to start limiting car use.
I ’ m in the middle of something right now. I ’ ll be there in a second.
many people in my generation don't eat pig's feet, but my parents grew up eating them, so I think they are OK.
Then how about the wine? Is white wine OK?
You're welcome, and your total is $ 5.48.
engineers are always delightful.
Better luck this time!
My disposable contact lenses. They're great for camping!
But our credit card saves you 10 percent.
Not great. It's a kind of boring.
Thank you, Mr. Cooper. I hope we get the contract.
We may travel by sea.
Has my package arrived?
The guy in the blue shirt at the table by the window.
Me too. That movie brought tears to my eyes.
Are dresses going to be on sale?
So you think it's ok for people who are dieting to eat chocolate?
Did your husband's family get to meet your family?
actually, they not only had 11 nominations, but they won 11 Oscars, too!
You're right. Lifelong learning is about finding learning opportunities at all ages and in numerous contexts
Actually, I am learning that now. But it's too hard for me. You know the four tones and the stuff. It really freaks me out.
Hey, Mary, can you cut that out?
Did you watch TV last night, Rose?
Bob is in advertising.
oh, I thought there were going to be eight. who isn't coming?
Tuesday night is when we need the reservation for.
Well, I also have...
I would if I could.
Me too. What are you doing besides exercising?
From his looks, I'd say he's a man of character.
Why are there so many yellow things? Is yellow the lucky color in China?
Nice to meet you Mr. Jones.
You can tell me here. I just want to know the price.
I like almost all sports, and I enjoy both playing and watching. I especially like tennis and mountain climbing. I was in the climbing club all through school.
I think it's the postman.Will you go and open the door?
Yes, I have. Here are my blouse, coats and stockings.
You are the one I should thank. You've done really great job.
I told you that we want first-class goods. So the quality, specification and price are clarified in our contract. Do you remember those details?
Excuse me. Where is the way out?
Here you go. Is that it?
Just a taxi, please.
All right, if there's no hold-ups.
You see. The wage is not paid yet, I am wondering if you could possibly lend me some money.
What went wrong?
I liked it, too. It was scary, but not disgusting. I always enjoy watching Anthony Hopkins. He's brilliant.
What about this brown one?
I said I was terribly sorry. But he said it was quite all right.
We have a live show of a football match this Friday night.
About how long will it take me to get there?
I was not speeding.
How about that European movie?
There's nothing left from dinner.
Maybe 500 dollars.
Look! Here it is!
Like wise. Take a seat, please. How about a cup of tea?
I think it is easier to buy a car than to maintain it. What ’ s worse, I just don ’ t trust those vehicle maintenance shops. Sometimes, they overcharge or don ’ t build those parts I have been paying for. Last week, they even tried to persuade me to buy new parts which really need not to be changed. You know, my car is just half a year old and also good brand. I was just wondering about all these.
Hi! Ed, what's up?
How long would you like to stay In these cities?
I'm scheduled to fly out on the tenth.
Yes. The board was favorably impressed with your application, but the competition was very fierce.
Maybe the company will build dormitory for the employees in the future.
How about this one? Downtown efficiency. Furnished... What does furnished mean?
Could you get me the pepper from the cupboard?
How about the new bar across road?
Let's go there then. Is it a Chinese restaurant?
Dude, don ’ t equivocate. A theory only becomes a theory after withstanding rigorous testing. You slept through class, didn ’ t you?
Good morning. There is no reason to miss so beautiful a morning. Is that a new bird?
yes. I ’ d like to book a table for Friday evening please.
I've sent my CV to dozens of companies but nobody has got back to me.
There's a Kentucky's not far ahead and there's a McDonald's in down street.
What are you going to play?
I hope the opera will be more stupendous than the movie. Have you bought the tickets?
did you know that few people can pay the rent on minimum wage, let alone pay for food and other living costs?
Hi, Wendy. I ’ m Gerry.
Not at all. These private sales are great places to bargain. And sometimes you can find terrific things among all the junk.
Don't worry about it, but thank you very much.
Oh, is that so? Well, then. Let me show you something she might like. It's on our back lot.
You haven't seen the sights yet, have you?
I started to learn English when I was in primary school.
Yeah, that is the holiday is hot, isn't it?
I ’ d like to have the bad and the wardrobe.
Really? Is there ' Wall Street Journal ', please?
Good morning. I'd like to have a haircut.
Why does that cop car behind me have its red lights on?
Must be one smart guy.
I came second and third a few times in the regional championships, but I never won. Did you ever take part in the national championship for the sprinting events?
Do you have trifles?
Take the A train south to the Liberty Ave. stop. You should be able to find it from there.
Well, it's about 65 cm at the moment. Could we increase it by about a third?
Yes. Don ’ t eat onions or garlic before you come. If you do you ’ ll have bad breath.
The new couple next door divorced. Have you heard about it?
Yes. This is room 207. There isn't any hot water in my bath room. Can you send somebody here, and do something about it?
But I find that most of the recommendation letters written by universities are the same. So I doubt its authority.
I ’ Ve been thinking of doing that lately! I don ’ t want some banker to run off with my money!
ok, you're right. I'll just tell them how round I am of you for getting a promotion and then I'll thank Sue for her kind letter.
My friend Jean is very beautiful.
It's $ 4.25 cents by the glass. The whole bottle is $ 22.5.
I've quit it already. I go to aerobics class everyday instead.
I ’ Ve got some bad news. All the plans sent over to the McGrath Corporation have been rejected. We ’ re going to have to start from scratch.
Ahh. And how about on Sunday? Did you watch the football?
Good evening. Welcome to Cherry's. Do you have a reservation?
Will the cords keep it from turning on?
A dozen will be fine.
That's right. On the other hand, a WA policy covers you against partial loss in all cases.
That's very respectable, but I could never live with my parents. I usually only see them at our christmas celebration — and that's enough!
I don't believe it. Jean is such a kind lady. How could she do this?
Here it is, and here we are.
A match made in heaven.
I want to put my desk over there, but it's too heavy for me to move.
Thanks, Mary. You ’ re a real pal. I ’ ll call now to set up an interview.
Thank you. I can't imagine getting much done today. I'm just too exhausted!
Confirmed. Thank you for using our bank! Please remove your card from the slot. Goodbye!
We have to. If nobody listened that would be like turning our backs on our own rights and obligations to the freedoms that our forefathers fought for.
Of course, easy.No sweat.
I haven ’ t decided yet. But I may go out.
Are you going anywhere for your vacation?
let's take the bus.
Honey, we are all out of wine and cheese. Do you mind running to the deli and picking up a few things?
That is what tornadoes sound like. They sound like trains. They're very loud.
Yes, there have been a few problems recently. Why don't you call the IT department?
Really? But I can smell alcohol on your breath. Blow into this breathalyzer, please.
Did you happen to bring that book that we were talking about yesterday?
Oh! I've just come back from Canada and I've brought a parcel from her parents
Oh yes, and fruits. I love fruits very much.
No, thanks. I'm good.
Well, what kinds do you have?
how did you feel when you graduated?
I see. Thank you very much.
I apologize, and I'll make sure he doesn't do that again.
Are you used to the climate here?
well, perhaps you're right. Sometimes EQ matters more than IQ.
Good for you.
Do you like your current job?
Not to put off till tomorrow what you can do today. I've found out that time and money get away very easily — you think you have them, and they're gone! Putting things off just makes it worse later, so even if it's hard at the time, I try to get things done that day and not let them go.
yes, but I have a few questions for you.
How about taking the damaged portion at a lower price?
Yes, you did.
Then what leads you to think that we have to reduce our price? Please tell me candidly.
Sure, let ’ s take a look. Sweetie, this is terrific. Your ideas are so original.
Thank you. I appreciate the time you've given to me.
What kinds of questions did she ask you?
How sweet... if you make me some more toast, I'll let you use my new retro toaster...
We can do that very easily.
I can ’ t possibly travel on a hard seat for 10 hours!
Watsup, ladies! Y'll looking ’ fine tonight. May I have this dance?
Is says here that It’s a war memorial. Now, there ’ s a distinctive structure-the stomium in Brussels. See? It consists of several connected by cylinders. I believe you can go up and down inside it.
I've fallen in love with my boss.
You are kind. Look there is a big tree over there, it looks like a thousand-year-old tree.
We'll give you our decision in a few days. How can we get in touch with you?
I know, I know.Have you got a portable radio? You can listen to the news and get healthy at the same time.
All right, just a quick one.
I am sorry, I am just too excited and forget it. Can I look it through?
That one there?
That is no problem at all, of course. You'll get a call at 7 o'colock and another at 7 fifteen.
The Canada Day is on the 1st of July.
I did. Let me go get it for you. Here you go.
OK. Here's the final drawing! It's for the trip!
Really? A foreign parrot!
Sorry to interrupt. Can I have a word with you?
Mr. Wilson, here's a present for you.
yes, he said it would be batter for me and for the whole family. But I simply can not quit working.
Yes, very high. Over your head. Then you will have time to hit the ball.
I love your home-made apple pie. It’s delicious.Can I have another glass of lemonade as well?
Great. I have a good day, thanks again for the offer.
What's your annual turnover?
Wow, this is great! I never knew Thai food was so creative and delicious!
Do you take traveler's checks?
Of course I know. I just can't see it very well.
I get together with my Christian brothers on Saturdays.
What's a few?
I know, I didn't have time to put things away before you got here.
Okay, I'll go take a look. Thank you so much for your help.
I already have some Time Deposits with you, but unfortunately, they haven't matured yet. I really don't want to cash those just yet.
Well, thanks for the compliment anyway!
Even if the language is accurate, a misunderstanding can not be avoided due to cultural differences.
Have you applied for work with any other companies?
I am in hot water now, all the things seem to be blown up.
What does your sister look like, Mike?
Wow, a remote car model and my favorite brand. I really like it. That is so nice of you.
They are professors and government officials.
What's up, buddy? You look so upset.
Do you have everything?
Who's that over here?
My mattress was supposed to be delivered today.
that ’ s fine. Are there signposts along the way, in case we get lost?
I think so. It's turning out to be a great day.
Do you mind being next to the elevator?
Oh, my wife just threw them into the washer.
How did you do on your driving test?
so did i. I ran the ideas by a few people before the meeting and their ideas seemed to have the supports of some people.
Excuse me, could you spare me a few minutes?
I think I am doing great, except for that one test!
Do you mind if we watch it. I ’ d really like to see it.
Yes, I studied in a computer training program, and can process data through the computer.
I apologize, sir. Just a second, while I transfer you to my supervisor.
Hmm. I'll go home and check. Maybe you're right. Maybe it's at home.
It's called ' Endless Love '. It was a gift from a sister city in Australia for the 100th anniversary of the city.
Can you bring me a glass of orange juice, please? I am quite thirsty.
If necessary there will be. Any other questions?
Yes, I'd like to know how to send money to France.
Hello! Mr. Wang. this is Smith.
No.My brother is playing football there.
Six and a quarter, I believe, but you'd better measure my hand to make sure.
In response to your offer, the sellers have decided to counter-offer three hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars.
What was wrong?
Excuse me, this is my first time on a plane. How do I check in?
It's just around the comer.Would you need some pills?
I'd call it one of my hobbies. Do you know much about photography?
Good morning, Miss White. You are half an hour early.
Sellers aren ’ t really all that objective. They may have gotten used to a leaky faucet, but it is still broken.
That sounds nice.
Here are our FOB price lists. All the prices in the lists are subject to our confirmation.
You ’ ll need to take care of the video.
That's unavoidable, but think, How would you keep up to date without television?
Yes. This way please.
Then I won't say no to that.
Yes, I know that.
What are you doing here?
Hi, I'm George. I'll be your waiter this evening. Are you ready to order or do you need a few more minutes?
You can say you have had a firm grasp of the professional knowledge, and you can communicate with others proficiently in English.
I like basketball. I really enjoy watching the NBA games on TV.
Jingshan Park is especially a popular place for old people socializing and gathering. People can often find elder folks dancing, singing opera and other cultural activities at Jingshan Park.
I have been studying.
Just over three weeks. Would you like a drink?
It was the first time. You should not be so particular.
Will they send me a form telling me that I have been granted unemployment?
Your wife will be thrilled with the roses.
It is Train No. 249. It will depart in four hours.
Oh, great! It's delicious. You see, I am already putting on weight. There is one thing I don't like however, MSG.
Use my laptop in the lobby? That's great! Now, if I need to print something there?
So let's head there. We'd better hurry up.
Could you show me where the ice cream is located?
Hey, Cindy, I'm so sorry about yesterday. I shouldn't have yelled at you in front of everyone.
But It’s falling apart, and the cat keeps playing with the lower branches.
But we've can canceled one bottle.
yeah, the success stories of that company might be useful for me. And their customers may become the potential ones for my own company.
Have you got any better?
Can you describe it, sir?
Where to, sir.
oh, sounds nice.
wait!! I need your address!
That seems pretty reasonable. Thanks.
That's fate.
This is your table. It's Number 10.
No, I have discussed the details about sales of our new equipment with the manager on the telephone yesterday.
I ’ m not crazy about it at all.
OK, we will make it ready for you.
Repair service, how may I help you?
Oh, I thought I could make a right turn on red here.
How did you get the piano here?
Do you offer trainer services along with the gym?
You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law. You have the right to have an attorney present during questioning. If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed for you.Do you understand?
Give me a screwdriver on the rocks.
How wonderful it would be if I had such smiles!
It's a furnished two bedroom flat in a three-story building on campus.
From eleven thirty to 1 o ’ clock.
Yes. I commute five days a week by train.
I see.Do you have anything to declare?
Oh, I'm starving. I'd like to try some real Chinese cuisine. What would you recommend, waiter?
It’s 10 centimeters, so the circumference should be 31.4 centimeters.
What is your greatest weakness?
It's a bit disappointing that they are all out for a movie.
Really? That ’ s marvelous!
OK. Here is your change. The train leaves on platform 8.
Alright this is a good one. What would your mom say if you told her you are going to get married?
Hello, what can I do for you today?
Never mind. There's an authentic tasting hot pot restaurant not far from the China World Trade Towers on Chang An Street. Have you been there?
I'm afraid that there is no room for any reduction in price.
O. K. So, where do you think we can save more money?
I would like to check out these books.
It's a perfect fit.
Will you sit here, please? How would you like it cut?
My stay is over. Here's the key to my room.
Well, not fully automated.
Exactly! Move your arms in a relaxed manner. Well. don't stretch yourfingers stiffly. Just keep them in a natural shape.
Our silk is known for its good quality. It is one of our trade - trional exports. Silk blouses are brightly colored and beau - fully designed. They ’ Ve met with great favor overseas and are always in great demand.
Get out of here!
I am so happy to know that the promotion campaign for our new product is very successful. We just made a record sale this season.
No problem! We have a broad selection of suits, all tailored made so that it will fit perfectly.
If I couldn ’ t wait, could the prescription be mailed to me?
Sorry. I take that back. I mean the copper Buddha you wanted.
I agree, how much?
Do you have the workers to save me if anything should happen?
Thank you! You know they have to go to the vet on Saturday?
I said it's a lovely day. Why don't we go for a walk?
Yeah, the food there is very healthy.
Hey-how about the Cinema Club?
Ok, I'll have it for a change.
Well, if you want to live in London, you have to pay the price!
What does the notice say?
Great. I'll call you Saturday morning.
I'm just pissed that management can't see behind his smooth talking lies.
How long do you plan to stay here?
Actually, we thought it would be fun to have a formal sit-down dinner for the holidays.
Sure. All you need is your student ID card or admission card to check out books and read journals or magazines in the library.
Everything looks so good. Is there anything in particular that you recommend?
To conclude the deal, I'd say a reduction of at least 15 % would help.
first of all, I want you to know that I really like working for this company. Do you think I'm doing a good job here?
I want to tell you that I like you
You have to go and fix it.
I think so too. It's just pointless.
That's my greatest concern. But how can you tell which one is clean?
Really? What time and which restaurant?
Now we've given a CIF Shanghai price for some steel plates. What insurance rate do you suggest we should get?
do you feel ok?
Let's just go over all of it to double-check.
Aw, come on, it was nothing. I'm just doing my job.
I have read your resume. I know you have worked for 3 years. Why did you choose to major in mechanical engineering?
We are going to have a party tonight, would you please look after our baby tonight?
I like the old styles of dance. Such as fox-trot, waltz, rumba, tango and so on. They're all graceful.
Can I order room service?
Really? So your city does have some old history after all.
Well. When you review your lessons, mark the places which you don't understand, then I will give you some coaching.
What an interesting family!
oh, what's that?
Does your girl friend like swimming?
What ’ s your destination?
sure, where would you like to go?
Maybe I don't want the fish, I think I had the greenbean dish instead.
ok. I'll go move the car if you turn the heat on. It's a bit chilly in here.
I'm afraid we have no extra key.So I'll send somebody to your room.
A higher discount will be given for a big order, so we are willing to give you a 5 % discount this time.
Good.Now the other eye.
I am doing great! Thank you for asking, Joe.
I'm getting dressed, what does it look like?
Oh, It’s Death on the Nile. Have you read it?
I would feel better if you came over and took care of me.
I ’ m in, let ’ s go!
A little over 3 years.
Come on. I don't see any point in arguing about this. Everyone has a right to his own opinion.
It’s fantastic.
All right. How many days would you like to use it?
How about next time we meet at my place? And I ’ ll treat you to Chinese food. I know how much you like it. We can order in and watch video too. Anything you like, I promise.
It doesn't matter. This one is fine.
I see. I believe there will be lots of foreigners coming to Beijing to watch the Games.
That is a big family. How old is your sister?
Yes, she's lived there for about ten years.
That sounds wonderful. Will there be anyone there that I know?
Where's Tom this evening?
I couldn ’ t possibly hire you. You can ’ t take shorthand, you can ’ t use a computer, and you can only work part time.
I'm going to quit the job.
Well how about meeting at my place?
Just take it home and plug it in?
Thank you very much. May I leave my baggage here until Thursday?
Working. I've been really busy these days. I got a promotion.
Oh! Is it too hot? I'm sorry.
No. Although motorcycle is nice, I ’ d like to buy a bicycle.
So have you ever been to the stamp display of the town?
I see. Then I'll try it.
come on! Man up! You'll never know until you try.
Mom called just now saying that she and Dad will be back later. Do you want to speak to them on phone?
I don't mind. Go ahead.
Afraid so. The more the better.
I like the jeans, but you need something to go with the top. It’s too plain on its own.
Sometimes I think Oscars are only awarded to movies that make a lot of money.
Are there small shops near here as well?
Have you found a new job yet?
Oh, really? Maybe she is just eager to see her grandchildren.
Can I have a look at your catalogue and the corresponding technical data?
Oh, here's a little token of my affection.
Sorry, our prices are set.
I ’ m thinking of taking you back home. I thought we could have a nice evening, but you ’ re always so negative.
I don't know. I never went to a church before. I was not raised as a Christian, so I don't know what to do.
I'm going to Wangfujing.
Hello, Mr. Smith, Wang Peng speaks.
Our engineers are on call 24 hours a day. We guarantee someone will be with you within four hours, but in practice it's often much sooner.
I heard many stories about your brother.
So where did you land?
What ’ s your pen name?
Here is one written by famous Japanese novelist. You can have a look.
That's OK, Ben, just let it go. I thought you were just a little too much into it.
Of course. After this, I want to show you to the Haunted House.
Interesting. What were you reading just now?
You should try swimming then. It helps you to keep fit.
Hi, Bill. It's Marsha Black at MPPD Ltd. How are you?
Don ’ t worry. It ’ ll probably take you about three weeks to get everything organized.
That's wonderful. Thank you.
Yes, my wife will be there.
I don't understand. We were getting along so well.
Of course. Let's go.
Most people were living form hand to mouth. How could they?
When does it start?
well, it's started raining since then. Look out the window! It's pouring rain out there!
The first bus you need to get on is the 268.
We landed in Southampton and waited an hour for the storms to pass and then took off again.
I guess that must be what I ’ m hearing, I really couldn ’ t place it. Do go back to Madrid often?
Perfect. I wanted to have a casual evening tonight.
Would you like anything else with that?
What did he aim at?
how about recycling? Does that actually help?
Happy to meet with you. Now, do you prefer group projects?
I think that show biz stars have a really easy life. They have lots of money, so they can buy almost anything they want. They ’ re famous, so everyone loves them.
I'm going to go to the concession stand and get some popcorn and Coke.
Would you like anything in particular?
Good, if you ’ ll excuse me, I ’ ll go over the sheet right now.
I ’ m sorry, Janet. I left it at home. I ’ ll bring it back in the morning.
and also thank them from the bottom of my heart for the Christmas package they sent us.
Do you dare watch scary movies with me tonight?
is that inflation?
You have a car?
I live in my uncle's house. He came here ten years ago.
I know I could have. But finally we asked someone where we were.
It takes some time.Because even if the quality is high, people won't accept a high tech product unless they recognize the name.Name recognition is crucial.
That's pretty short. Are you sure about this?
Can I see your license, please?
Then let me take you out to dinner to celebrate.
Actually, he was OK with it. They hadn't been getting along too well.
It's ok. What do you want to ask?
That doesn ’ t sound too bad. Great for sunbathing! The coast of my country changes even within a few kilometers. There are cliffs, then sandy beaches. Then rocks. There are lots of caves in the cliffs.
This is a notice to inform you that the sheriff will evict you in 30 days if you do not pay up on your rent.
I get it. And...?
I just want to visit the family some day.
I am completely serious.
ok. Well, we'll have a nurse take some blood in a few minutes to see if you're dehydrated. First, let me feel your pulse.
Yes, sir. But we only accept American Express, Master card and Visa. What kind do you have?
Traffic rules are different among countries.
Separate bills, please.
All right. We accept it. So $ 600 for each set.
No. I'm busy then too. I'm meeting Dorothy Heath at North Bridge Road. Are you free on Thursday afternoon?
Miss, I understand your problem.But it is against the law for us to sell certain medicines without a prescription.It ' s the law. I can't do anything about it.We never sell medicine unless we have a proper prescription. Never.
Did you always like pop music.
Thanks. Lovely day. Pity I ’ m on duty.
You're absolutely right! That's the very figure I like best.
A classmate of mine.
I know! It's gonna be great. But what kind of music do you think we should play?
What about the sports page? What were the scores of last night ’ s games?
Same hours as on the weekdays.
yes, it is so. i love songs that take me to some places i have not been or have been for a long time. it is fun and exciting.
I have no idea. Could you recommend me one?
Most of them are from America and Europe.
Daddy, how are you going to spend your weekends?
Good! Now, sir, do you have a preference for smoking or nonsmoking?
sure. We tend to think that the slower on eats, the more polite one seems.
I like the color.
Really? Do you often shop online?
I can ’ t keep up with the game. The players play so quickly that I can hardly see what they are doing.
It's my pleasure. Well, then. I'll say goodbye.
Do you find it difficult to get to sleep, or do you wake up early?
Aw, Mom-you're such a drag.
Do you have any idea what time it is?
Will you tell us if we are failing during the year?
Is there a chance you could contact the client confidentially and see what they think? If they like your ideas, perhaps they could put them forward as their own proposals. You won ’ t get credit for ide
not really. After a 12 - hour flight, I've got jetlag, and on top of that, I think I've also got the flu.
Did it spill on your clothes?
Tampering with cartons is easily detected. I should say that this rather discourages pilferage.
Mom, I didn ’ t have breast. I could eat a horse.
But I have a prescription. I just need more of it.
Very nice. I am sure we will sort out your Internet in no time.
Can you give me a hand, Tom?
Mom, can you talk about the philosophy of life with me?
OK. But just let me pick up a bottle of cooking wine and oil as we go by.
You like my living room set, don't you?
I ’ Ve just looked over your resume and I must admit I am quite impressed.
it's got an above-average battery life. It lasts up tp 12 hours and can be charged in 30 minutes.
I wonder what we should have for dinner this evening?
Let me check if we have any vacancies... You ’ re in luck.We have one single room available.
Maybe you haven't found the magic.
I ’ m interested in all kinds of your products, but this time I would like to order some fireworks and mosquito coil incense. Please quote us C. I. F. Rangoon.
It's really eye-catching. It's the biggest dragon lantern I've ever seen in all my life.
I know girls love this kind of car. Look, it's got a sunroof! Imagine... a cool, starry night...
What's the difference in price?
I heard that the weather should be good. There ’ s a possibility of a shower, but It’s not very likely.
Hey. I'm a visitor from China. I love your music. It's the best I've ever heard. Will you please spare a little bit of time for me?
What exactly do you want?
Good morning, sir. Do you have a reservation?
I wish I had a dog. My cat can't do any tricks.
I hope you're not turning into a sissy on me, Dave.
But yesterday you said you would rent it.
I am kind of busy right now, but maybe later next week I could stop by.
Well, imagine that! How old are you?
Oh, really? I know that telephone signal must have been shielded in the elevator shaft, so what did you do then?
I haven ’ t played softball since I was in high school!
Yes. Oh, it's a talk show.
Yes, and it goes beautifully with your pants.
You seem depressed these days. What's the matter?
Can't bear it, right? I've been there before. I'll feel uncomfortable if no one calls me or sends me text messages, like there is something missing.
At 8 am. By the way, it also makes a refueling stop.
I think I'd rather have tea this morning.
You sound exhausted. Maybe you should hire a nanny to help you out! She can pick the kids up and take them to their after-school activities. She can also help you do some household chores, and run some errands.
You will receive a monthly statement with each expenditure itemized.
I ’ ll pay them off right now.
Excuse me, could you lend me some of your records?
Hey Michelle, jump in quick. It's pouring out there!
( XXXXXXXXXX ) but I don ’ t think you can hear us. ( XXXXXXXXXX ) Hello? ( XXXXXXXXXX )
Excuse me. Mr. Li. May I ask you some questions?
Sure, for at least three thousand per month.
The mailboxes are right down there, and the laundry room with coin-operated washers and dryers is over there.
Yes, of course.The dressing room is over there.
I think I'm going to go get some food.
What do you need help with?
I enjoy camping.
Yeah, I know, but what about the chicken?
It’s a problem because I can ’ t give you your deposit back.
Let me see. What a moving poem!
Hello, this is ABC Corporation. May I help you?
Yes. An passport and a visa are necessary for entry into China.
Good. Can you come in the morning or would afternoon be best?
That's too bad. Please try to fix it so that it doesn't happen again.
Thanks so much, bye.
We intend to open the tender at first next month in Beijing.
We finally get a chance to meet.
Yes, I've been waiting for my bags to be sent up for the last half hour. Where are they?
I see. The chef is so skillful with his knife.
You did pretty bad.
That's cool. I bet you could bring your own food.
Sure, do you have the receipt?
Yeah. This is a big house with a garden. I like it very much.
B :: I'm such a fool that duplication of effort is only a waste time to me.
Have you heard what the weather is going to be like tomorrow?
Um... let me see now, is it 18 or 19, I can never remember... 18... 19 next birthday. Tthat's it.
Gee, that's really nice of you.
I see. Come here. The high heels here look really attractive. But I wonder whether it's comfortable to wear any of them?
What is your stand on gay marriage?
Yes, it is. It should be enough for any student needs you might have.What department are you in?
Well, in that case, the schools in this area are very good.
My uncle owns a farm and I ’ Ve spent some time working with him. I love being in the countryside with farm animals and green fields.
It means that we will arrive on the same day.
Yeah, you can make it.
Do you want to watch it?
For me, the times of chatting online has gone.
Are there any interesting articles in today ’ s newspapers?
Is the environment a big issues in your country? It is in mine.
Just please take my pancakes to trade for waffles. While I am waiting, I will eat my bacon and eggs.
I'm doing fine, thanks.What ' s new with you?
My plans aren't until later, so I'll clean it before I go.
yes, please. That's a fantastic idea. Which gate do I need to go to?
Yes, would you like smoking or non-smoking?
France? Is he crazy?
Textile is a traditional industry, which has completely catalogue, and solid basis and has developed in the past few years.the export is great, counting more than 25 % of export products
No, there ’ s no need.
No, we live in the suburbs. What about you?
As a reporter, he must have acute insight and language skills. At the same time, he must have good judgment, the respect for his job and tactical cooperation with others.
Wow! Isn ’ t that dangerous?
How do you pay for it?
Remember when we were kids? Theaters wouldn't let kids in to PG moves without a parent.
Galileo is one of them.
But number 13 buses leave from the center of town. You'll have to walk two miles to catch one.
Do you have life insurance?
The Taiwanese won't have time to buy gifts in America. The chat room is more convenient.
It will be ready right away.
that's fine with me.
I see. We have already received many bookings and though I can't guarantee anything, please be assured that we'll try our best, Mr. Davis. I hope you'll understand.
Excuse me. Do you happen to have a gym here?
Yes, but technology is ever changing and technology is becoming obsolete faster and faster!
What is in it?
Do you want to send it by airmail or by surface mail?
where will those be located?
There might be a loose connection somewhere that's making the safety switch trip. Check the settings on the trip-switch. If you can't fix it yourself, call in an electrician.
Not very much. It sounds too emotional to me.
Wang, what's that building over there? It looks like some sort of a huge pavilion.
Yes. I am Belen.
Yes.There are the Huangshan Hotel and Anshan Hotel nearby.And you can take a taxi to go there.
See you Borrow.
Well, we ’ re really interested in placing an order under negotiation. We can start the negotiations as soon as you want.
I ’ m so sorry, and I will pay much attention to it later.
if you haven't tried Beijing duck yet, I'd like to treat you to a meal at a famous duck restaurant near Qianmen. It would be a pity if you left without tasting it!
I know that. I need to discuss this with Arden. And in his opinion, we should widen the scope of our ads, so newspaper and Internet should be adopted in this campaign.
Yes, we did. But I shall never fly again.
Johnny, have you tidied up your room yet?
What am I supposed to do now?
Did they finally fill that post, how come I haven't seen her? She must have not been inducted yet.
At least, it can free you from the crowd. By the way, do you come from China?
well, i wanted to get a pet that wouldn't disturb the neighbors. at the same time, I wanted a pet that would be affectionate.
Yes, I am ready. Thank you.
Oh, four or five. How much is the rent for this apartment?
I agree. That ’ s why Christopher is already looking for a job in Maine, or Wisconsin.
did they take his license away?
You have nothing to worry about.
do you have a minute?
This is Professor Clark speaking.
All right. What shall I do now?
Do you play table tennis?
Seeking plum blossoms with stepping on the snow? That's a good idea. Let's go!
Do you have the five dollars I lent you yesterday?
I share the same opinion. You are over-weight so it's hard for you to buy clothes.
I have felt that. One day when i was in a queue, reading a newspaper story, the man behind me peered through my shoulder and stared at the newspaper I was holding.
The dress is slim in cut.
So, have you seen all three The Lord of the Rings movies?
Alright. But you promise this is the last time.
Ok... Here you are.
Could you keep my valuables?
When did you come to America?
I've been snowed under with work since my boss was away on business.
Yeah, I ’ ll try not to! See you after Christmas.
Never ever come to work drunk, also smoking in the office is not allowed.
The chicken tastes wonderful, but it is kind of dry. Is your fish OK?
my sister is a lawyer. I can ask her if she can help him.
Yes, sir. Can you show you identity?
No, I cann't. I'm in a hurry!
Yes, we should go. Thank you very much. Goodbye!
I think we picked the right line. This one seems to be moving more quickly than the others.
Well, you ’ Ve adapted yourself very well. Everyone in our office thinks you ’ Ve made a great progress in the past two years. What is your secret?
but I still love you.
I want to have a foot massage and haircut.
I do my shopping at Sons.
Employees will also have housing payment reserve funds.
Then when do you think we could go out together?
Well, this really is delicious, I have to admit. I can understand better now why you and your friends are always whining.
How very appropriate, because tonight we have a most dazzling show for you!
Merry Christmas, Mr. Wang. I would like to give you the book I specially chose as my appreciation for your sincere help to me in the past few days.
As we know, mobile phones bring people great convenience and shorten the distance among friends and relatives.
Yes, it will print immediately.
Are you sure you have the time?
All right. Let's see when the next movie is playing?
Eight hundred yuan.
Zach, what's that on your arm?
Yes, I need some more cash for my visit in China. May I cash a traveler ’ s check here?
I took a part-time job last semester in translating and doing reception work for an exhibition. My work included hosting the visiting foreign exhibitors, communicating with them, arranging their agenda, and translating several materials. I think this activity well demonstrated my ability in English. And I will be glad to take any form of English test you arrange for me to prove my ability.
Can I make preservation now?
They would say I am a dependable friend and a capable colleague.
Do you know what you ’ re going to do now?
I've just taken a spanner set from the stores.
Yes. I gotta review all of them for the final exam. It is just around the corner.
That ’ s it, my lease is up. I have to move.
Oh, I see him now. Wait! That's...
Not at all. The changing rooms are just this way.
No, thanks. I don't like chocolate. I'd like strawberry pie.
I'll see a piece available, who should I say is calling, please?
That ’ s good idea. You don ’ t need to worry about missing an issue of a magazine if you do that. I suppose you have a mortgage too.
Sorry, I'll bring them to you right away.
I did. Did you?
Don ’ t do that again. You are riding the tiger.
You have made an excellent choice, it is our newcomer. The tapestry is on hot sell with the design and quality. The design on it is traditional Paris architecture.
Our hope is to establish mutual beneficial trading relations between us.
How long it will take by sea?
Good morning.Could you tell me the times of trains to London, please?
Will you come round next Tuesday?
I am still in shock to know that he was elected.
Really? You are a lucky dog. You know, many girls dream of dating him.
How is it that you are my mom's sis? You two are so different. She always picks up bargains and spends more than she earns. You do so much better than her.
Have you asked Santa?
There's no power.
To which direction did he run?
I think we should home school our children when we decide to have kids.
Same to you.
I see. Thanks anyway.
Did you enjoy the meal?
Yes, I think so. There is also an interesting one. It's opposite the park.
What kind of activity would make you get involved?
What's that? I thought our negotiation went very well.
Okay. I'll give her the message.
I buy a computer magazine every month. It keeps me up-to date with all the latest developments.
Certainly.Go ahead.
Do you remember what the ratings of movies stand for?
You mean we Chinese think differently from the Americans?
That ’ s a good idea. She told me that she had bought plenty of food and snacks. I think It’s going to be a noisy party. I hope her neighbours don ’ t mind too much.
cooking makes me feel relaxed. So, what are we cooking?
Would you get some of that new cereal we saw advertised on TV?
Excuse me. I'm afraid you're in my seat. You've moved my books.
the meal are so woke.
It is a new park, isn't it?
Mmm, let me see, it seems there is no Johnson listed for a room for tonight, is there any other name that you reservation list under?
At first, I'll write about my life there. Like interesting things on the campus, travel stories, special English words that I come across. Sometimes, I'll post my pictures on my blog so my friends and family can get to know how everything's going.
I know. I ’ m just waiting for confirmation on one of them. I can get them to you by tomorrow morning.
I see. Sorry about this, I'm new in this job and I've never even seen one of these before! My boss just told me to come here and sort it out.
It is. I hope you ’ ll have time to come for a visit soon. You really should come during the summer, when the weather is better and there ’ s more happening outdoors.
Not always, she's rather busy at the end of the year.
Hello, Grace. That's a beautiful skirt you have on. Where are you going?
How should I know? It's just kind of cold in the middle. It just doesn't taste right. Do you want to try it?
Yes. I did. I enjoyed it a lot.There was a folk singer, a violinist and a pianist.
no, you can't waste your time wandering around. If you want a job that requires a higher degree or diploma, you should focus on your graduate school entrance exam ; if you want a job that needs working
I cannot get hold of her yet.
According to the regulations, the camera you've brought along for personal use can be passed for the time being duty free, but you will have to take it out with you when you leave the country.
Let me go do that.
Well, let's try a size ten. ( He gets another pair and the customer tries a shoe on. ) Looks like a perfect fit.
No, I don't like that place. Why don't we try the garage Martin recommended?
Oh, yeah. Many Chinese like to bargain. It happens almost everywhere.
Fine, thank you, and how are you?
Let me see... my right arm... oh, to the east.
OK. In my position, I think the best way to go would be for the 90 - day loan. That would give us a little more time to sort out the repayment plan.
The fruit and vegetables are over there.
Yes, I had my first lesson this morning. Are you a new student too?
I'm fond of history books.
OK, well, let's coordinate our efforts. Should this party be formal or casual?
Well, we could eat in more. That 300 dollars for entertainment is mostly going to restaurants.
Let me try it on. I think it really suits me. Can you give me some discount on it?
I'd like to see it for myself.
Nice to meet You, Ms. Thou. We've learned that you specialize in the export of electronic products.
That's no problem.He just has a friend who works in a shop that can do plastic wrap. That's easy.And probably it's the same shop he got the boxes from.Maybe his friend works in an electronics store. They sell video cameras there.Probably they had a couple video camera boxes lying around.So they get the idea of wrapping bricks to sell to fools like you.Twenty dollars a brick. That's a good profit if they can sell enough bricks.
I see. You are leaving for Berlin on July 23rd with Mr. Smith, right?
It's the time to emphasize sense of crises.
Yes, welcome to our company. I hope we can cooperate happily.
How do you think should I handle this problem?
Sure. How much do you want?
Fine today, though a bit under the weather last week.
What's the trouble?
Sounds like a plan. Let's meet in front of Tower Records at 12:00.
What sort of accommodation can you supply for me?
Right, so the deposit, if I don't draw on it will be blocked after you get the Deposit Certification?
"all right. Would you please stand closer to the flower bed? Good. Smile. Say "" cheese "". OK, got you. That's terrific."
Okay, which ones do I need to take?
Ahh, I was not available last Sunday. I was too busy almost as much as you.
If everyone could take a look at the final review handout, if there're any objections or corrections, let me know. Next week, we can cast the final approval.
What are you talking about? We'll split the bill.
I'm not sure.
Is this your first time here? Where are you going?
Look, Danny. The Four Great Inventions!
I would like vegetable soup, please
well. I guess I can ask around to see if anyone's got a room or apartment available.
Well, I am always energetic and enthusiastic. That's my strongest personality.
I want a cup of bean milk. Do you have any?
It is all right. I will call the boss and tell him I am staying another day. I stayed an extra night in Boston last month and he didn ’ t seem to put about it.
Yes. Many things! I especially love this beautiful quilt.
Yes, sir, let me show you the table. This way please.
I haven't thought of that.
The house warming party.
You are right about that.
Can we start tomorrow though?
Why would the government want to tax liquor so much?
Will you give me your camera? We have to confiscate your film.
I would say it was a typical run-of-the-mill Hollywood thriller.
Are we all going to drive together?
Once, when I was a child.
Here. I ’ ll just give you a little push...
If you don't mind, I'd rather you didn't. I have a cold and feel chilly.
The cause is another boy.
That's true.
It will take about thirty minutes because it is the rush hour.
I'm sorry, dad. But I would rather stay at school than go to cram school.
In the suburb. How are you and Carol? Still living in town?
Artistic tapestry is the highest expression form of the rug weaving art. How about these ones?
Er... How about this one?
If my baggage exceeds the allowance, what should I do?
Yes, the towel was named after its designer Gustave Eiffel.
Not much, usually I'll just keep silent.
Could I have my hair dyed?
Please fill out this form, also please write the value of the items in this space.
"Actually, I have to admit that you're right. I like some pretty cheesy movies too. I love Arnold Schwarzenegger action flicks, especially "" Terminator. """
Yes, with one piece of cloth, and you need to learn how to fold the cloth so that you you use each part of the cloth only once to wipe the bowl
I heard that a robbery happened in our town several days ago. The robbers ripped off a car in broad daylight.
She's another antique.
Yes. Are the chances for employees to be transferred to overseas branches of the company?
Curry and rice. What do you think?
Do you feel ok?
Can I return the car in San Francisco?
Would you prefer first class or economy class?
What does this have to do with me?
I think we have a little ways to go.
What ’ s that?
Yes, your check will be a little late in getting to you.
Maybe you are right to some extent.
it's a kind of rice ball that is made in Malaysia. What about you?
Yeah, sure, you didn't come to class that day?
Welcome back, Sir. I trust the materials were helpful to you?
Who can't make it in your family?
Exactly. As I am supposed to the chair of the meeting, I don't want it to get out of control.
I am very impressed by your resume. Therefore, I am very interested to know why you ’ re willing to leave your current company.
Are you going to give up your job?
Do you have a problem walking a little bit?
Just asking?! Why is your face burning like mad? Ah-huh, someone has a crush on Jenny, doesn't he?
I am interested in buying a house and need some information.
Just stare at the newspaper holding in the hands of the one next to him?
congratulations! I hope when you hold the wedding ceremony, I ’ m still residing in Beijing.
OK, I ’ ll fill out the form and come right back.
I greatly appreciate this.
Can you elaborate it more concretely?
Did you finish typing yesterday?
I'm sorry. I've lost my tags and receipt. How can I do about it?
I ’ m sorry. Dr. Galas is fully engaged tomorrow morning. How about the day after tomorrow at 9:30 in the morning?
Fine. Sleep well yourself.
Don't waste time.
Great. Good work.
Yes, I think so too.
I was wondering, does this come with any kind of warranty?
What I need to know is how I can keep track of what's going on. I mean, some days I buy and sell quite a lot. Some days, there's no activity at all.
That's it.By the way when can I get it back?
You're in luck. We still have that little table.
Yes, there ’ s too much pollution too!
can't complain. What about you?
Maybe you should ask her what she wants for her birthday.
What is the rate for a double room for one night?
Very much. New York is such a nice place. Shall I show you some photographs?
You want some souvenirs!
Oh, yeah? What's it about?
Ok, I will inform everybody when they come back from lunch. It has been a long time since we had the department dinner last time. I am sure they don ’ t want to miss it.
One good way is to do push-ups. Another way is to use weights. Make sure you grip the weights firmly. You don ’ t want to drop them on your feet!
let me see here... yes, there's one left.
Yes. I'd like to place an overseas call to London. Can I dial direct?
To go, please.
Yes, just a little.
How come you're still up? Shouldn't you be asleep by now?
Which country makes the best coffee in the world?
Yes, I'd like to know something about the salary.
Yes, I know it. I went through my last set of tires fast. I even had three flat tires in two weeks.
Have you got the time, Tom?
What was on television last night?
yes. Once it gets hot, put a little oil in it, add the vegetables and stir-fry them for a few minutes.
Well, my saddle is too low for me. Do you know how to change the height?
Yeah, I know. Shop till you drop.
Let me see... One or two bedrooms?
Sorry, I can't sing the song.
Why are you in such a hurry? They said, Dinner at eight, and It’s only seven-fifteen. I don ’ t want to be the first one there again.
no, I haven't had a chance to. But I've been watching a Chinese TV series called Chinese-Style Divorce.
how about the rice?
There's the difference, your wife made it! I have to make my own lunch!
No. it's free.
Yes, we do. How can I help? I can give you a simple introduction, if you'd like?
Your doctor will be contacting you with the results.
May I have your name, sir, please?
No, we're not. We've been drifting apart for a while.
you should be. You worked really hard last night preparing for it.
Well, he looked sharp and he came across as a very confident guy.
I accidentally wrote the check for too much.
Yes, my first marriage was a failure.
I said Merry Christmas! Don't you know that Christmas is almost here?
I've given her enough time. I'm over it now.
Yes, sir. What can I do for you?
Here you are. I wonder how much interest can I earn from a current account.
Would you like a savings or a chequing account?
Certainly. Jackie Chan is a very famous movie star in Hong Kong. His Chinese name is Cheng Long.
Do you have a seat preference?
the workshop are always delightful.
Why don ’ t you just continue going to PCC?
If I'm awake.
And we have some squabbles on some boring things.
Well, those do leave will soon find out the grass isn't as green on the other side of sense as they thought it was, I know Sunburst is suffering from inbreeding.
What comes next?
I ’ m going to Bihai park. Is this the right bus please?
I can't find the price tag.
A single room please. I hope you ’ re not fully booked.
I'd like to have this shirt washed and ironed.
Good morning, is there anything I can do for you?
Well where am I going to get that sort of costume?
He said he would like to be our tour director and he lined up many things to do.
Why didn't I think of that?
I've brought with me some of old ones.
Yes, the climate of France rarely has severe winters. In southern France, one can live in comfort the whole year. Is Japan good for farming?
I genuinely appreciate my new phone.
Can you see what his schedule is like on Wednesday?
Dying can be very expensive nowadays! What ’ s he going to do with it?
I am very interested in a new apartment near the Taxing Plaza, but the price is very high, I really can't afford it.
How much is it going to cost, and who is going to pay?
I try my best to eat only fruits, vegetables, and chicken.
And we could get a dog!
No, I'm Mary.
Yes, I must go to Shanghai to attend a meeting about our plan.
We play either Tuesdays or Thursdays.
Thank you. You can rest assured that we'll do everything possible to prevent de festive commodities from going abroad. However, if there should be any disputes, we wish to have them settled through friendly discussions.
The average grade of all my courses is above 85.
Oh, look at her. She looks like one is the basketball babies in NBA.
Oh, my God. It’s beautiful. But it looks expensive.
I'd like 20,000 RIB, please. If that's possible.
So, is that a yes?
It's too bad. They are very delicious.
Boy, you are lost. It's across town.
Here ’ s a letter for you.
That was an odd change of subject.
Oh, thanks. Please tell him to call my cell-phone number.
Have a good day at school! See you tonight!
Hi, Ellen! How is it going?
Just roll it up and have a bite, Amy.
How can you help me?
Yes. Where do you want to go?
It's easy grandpa. Insert you card into the machine here. Then wait a moment. Ok. Now you enter your PIN. It should have four numbers.
To tell you the truth Mrs. Bird, I don't like chicken, either!
I was at PCC before.
We have a dinner reservation for four at 7:00 under the name of Foster.
No, it's so much worse. And tonight they invited me out to dinner. I really have no idea how I'm going to pull it off.
OK, take care! Hey, nice running into you!
But she did and it made me disappointed.
I ’ m looking forward to seeing the famous castle and prison. Many historic figures were imprisoned there in the past. I really want to see the crown jewels too.
we can ’ t. if we went that fast, we would break the speed limit.
What kinds of currency do you change?
There ’ s a lot to see there. Perhaps we should go tomorrow.
What size do you want it to be?
What about the interior?
It's very helpful.the course has let me into a world of literature. i read so many great literatures.
Well, in the first year of our marriage, we had great difficulties in getting along. The things that are important to me are not important to him. We had a lot of conflicts.
I was wondering if you want to go see a movie with me tonight?
Hello, I need a wake-up call tomorrow morning.
Which train do you like?
Fantastic! I guess the same is true with the arms, right?
You guessed right. Besides, the color violet is a little girly for me...
It's a difficult choice.The train is a little faster, but much more expensive.
I am sure that document was filed.
Not bad. The fur market is not very brisk lately, but the selling season is advancing near. I hope there will be more buyers in the market this year.
Hold on. Just 5 minutes.
You are freaking me out.
I've got some great news for you!
this way, please. Here they are. They're all handmade.
Are you married?
What kind of business do you do?
I'll pick you up at about nine o'clock, will it do?
No, Madam. I don't think I do.
what are they?
Glad to meet you mr smith my name is jenny.
I'd like to reserve a table for two, my wife and I.
Oh, yes. Hi, how are you?
I want to have this photo enlarged.
On the left of the elevator of the 3rd floor.
They are in the basement already.
I knew this would happen some day...
Yes, at the beginning we were all excited and had lots of fun. However, on the third day of travelling in the city, I felt sick I think I had something bad to eat but it passed by the evening.
Would you like a cigarette?
I think I'll redeem, if that's not a problem.
How did you choose courses when you were abroad?
Sounds like our boss. Typically him always late with important information. Anything I can help?
Yes, you can. Just wait a moment and I'll do that for you now.
do you like surfing?
That's the last three or four numbers on the back of your credit card where your signature is.
It’s this Tuesday.
How long has your daughter been in the States?
There was a stop sign?
then you've got a lot of homework to do. You need to get her notice first.
How would I go about applying for this service?
But I must say, if it were only for the weather, I like autumn most!
I don't know. I haven't tried yo-yo since that party!
' going Dutch ' means to split the bill, silly!
There is one around the corner.
Well, what's the price of this route?
I'll be glad to do it.
It didn't sound like he was too upset, huh? What did you tell him?
Yeah, Judy. I will be working for the Post Office. It’s not a bad job.
Thank you so much, Lisa!
I'm sorry, I haven't decided yet.Do you mind giving me a couple of minutes?
Are you ready to go shopping?
Oh, that's no problem.
I'm going to the hospital.
I don't understand very well. Could you give me a map?
Hello, Robert. This is Frank. I'm coming to Guangzhou on the the 7th and I'd like to call in to discuss the project plan.
I like lamb, but my husband doesn't.
I received a bachelor's degree.
Yes, it's straight ahead around the corner.
It will give us better feeling and atmosphere if it rains.
I can ’ t take that.
I ’ ll say.
"For example, the message for the day before yesterday notified me that I, as a Leo guy, was to have some "" unusual experience in food and drink. And as it turned out, the reality matched this prediction well. Lasi night, I was treated to a dinner party by Mr. Lee."
Ok, could you give me two tickets for that?
I'm so glad you can finally see things in my way. Can we leave this dull place now?
More than enough. Please fill in this form.
If it goes beyond the basic deposit, the agreement will be settled at the rate agreement savings which has been determined by the People's Bank of China on the day you wish to settle or withdraw.
Ok. Should I heat the wok?
There are a lot of papers!
Oh, it's my pleasure. After all, you are very qualified for the position.
Oh, it's out of paper. Do you have any more?
Well, first of all, I ’ Ve decided to stop smoking. It’s not that I ’ m pinching pennies or anything, It’s just that I ’ Ve been smoking since I was sixteen, and I think It’s time to stop.
Excuse me, can I have an earphone please?
Where is she right now?
That's very sensible. It sounds like you have a good head on your shoulders.
Sure you have to be patient. But I think It’s much less trouble to sit in front of a computer than to go door to door or to make a lot of phone calls.
you're right. Too much or too little won't do any good.
Well, I'd like to change the date to March 20, and make that for two singles, not one.
It could be that, or maybe you are eating too many sweets. In any case, I ’ ll administer an anesthetic and you won ’ t feel a thing!
And would you like an appetizer before your meal? The soup of the day is our delicious tomato soup.
How about 10 percent? That's about 6 dollars.
Yes, where should we go from here?
What does that tell him?
Like creating a sepia tone look and some special effects such as fades and dissolves.
It's 86 coach and 175 berths
How long a period will you look at to determine this?
Sure. Why don ’ t you sit down for a minute? You haven ’ t taken a rest all morning.
Would you please bring us the check?
I just use a regular hard bristle toothbrush.
Just a sec I ’ m just gonna vacuum this rug real fast.
Yeah. I think there's a live outdoor concert by the river tomorrow.
Less than a serving of alcohol a day can actually be good for you. Do not overdo it!
There's the Beijing roast duck.
Me, too. At this time of the year, I often miss my home in the warm south.
Well, I prefer yogurt to all the other drinks. Have you ever tried a kind of yogurt with old milk in it? It tastes great and very healthy too.
Wait a moment. And you can check where other sales are.
what currency would you like to trade in?
I like PCC better.
I can ’ t say I do. What I like a girl with good manners.
He has a girlfriend already.
Hi, Ann. I was wondering if you are free tomorrow night?
Would you like a window or an aisle seat, Mr. Smith?
I just heard through the grapevine something about you landing a job with some travel agency down town. You can still fill me in on tile details.
Yes, reading is my hobby.
Have you gone bowling before?
Yes. I should have gone to buy the ticket in advance. But now...
Your mp3 looks so cool. Where did you get it?
Wow! What a beautiful scenic spot. It's so open. And just breathe that fresh air, you can almost taste its freshness.
Well, it pays off for her.How old is she anyway?
Video tape breaks down after fifteen years.So if he collects a lot of tapes, after fifteen years they will all start to rot.
Oh don ’ t worry, I ’ ll be fine.
What seems to be the problem?
I thought you would be worried about it. So I rang Auckland last night. As you are our biggest customer, they agreed to ship the order on the first vessel available that will leave Auckland next month.
Goodness! It’s been so long I actually forgot. Let me see... yes, it is on my calendar.
I ’ m sorry, sir, we cannot grant you a B2 visa at this time, instead, you are granted a resident visa! Congratulations, you are the millionth person to apply for a visa! You win! Congratulations!
You shouldn't have stayed up so late watching TV. I told you we had to get an early start.
Cookies? You just ate an hour ago.
you're right, thanks. There's an interesting interview with a top director about his latest film that I want to finish.
I think you're right. There needs to be an international response to this problem?
Okay, you take one end and I'll take the other.
Is there a maximum number of copies I can make?
You know, healthy eating doesn't have to make you gag.
Are you crazy? You have no idea what you are talking about! Just for my eyes I have to get eye-liner, an eyelash curler, eye shadow, an eyebrow pencil and mascara. Then I need to get foundation, liquid foundation.
But how will I get to know the products?
Remittance Advice, how can I help you?
Dancing figures are quite popular. Two of the boxes have them.
Yes, there needs to be at least 1 RIB paid in to open a new account. Also, you will need to choose a secret identity code to ensure no one else can enter your account.
That ’ s your opinion not mine.
Thanks doc, bye!
How about traveler's insurance?
What do you think about occupational planning?
It’s right this way.
Did you buy anything in the duty-free stores?
Good afternoon. Can I help you?
I want to travel.
Go to gate 18. The plane is boarding now. You should hurry up.
Maybe I shouldn't have put it here. Someone was bound to bump it eventually.
Well, on weekdays I get up around ten. Then I read the paper for an hour and have lunch at about noon.
Why are you holding me in this jail cell?
And plate number.
The blue one, please.
Is that why she wouldn ’ t look at me in the meeting?
Do you know what you're going to do this weekend?
Yes, my name is Max Richards. May I please speak to George Nelson? I have already called several times. It seems I always catch him out of the office.
Thank you very much. I have been looking for it for a long time.Is this the latest edition?
Well, I'll have it wrapped for you.
For order of 12,000 or more we charge only $ 1.5 a doll. your total cost would be $ 18,000.
What a great weekend that was!
Take it easy. We should be able to make it unless we get caught in a traffic jam.
You should change to the No. 701 bus at the next stop.
OK. How about some fried spring rolls and squid balls, some pork skins, and some beer!
You're going go Dresden for sightseeing?
I love my candidate.
Americans also don't go to work on Saturdays.
I will think about it.
Right now he speaks mostly Chinese, and he can say a few English words. But he will learn.
That ' s true, but what if one comes across some difficulties. He must rely on his EQ to deal with them.
Alice, I never knew you had such a lovely voice. You really can sing, can't you?
Tomorrow I have an appointment with my dentist. What about next Monday?
Thanks. What kind of stone is this?
Try a Stinger. It has lime juice and grenadine over ice.
You know that everybody notices how beautiful you are, don't you?
To the beach
Hello, sir. What can we do for you today?
That's the second branch hotel of Hilton. Walk straight down and you will see the bookstore you just mentioned. Turn left, I believe, you will get it.
Lily, I ’ m not sure. Let me check, I think I spent $ 50.
Well... uh... how about a glass of juice instead?
Good. Now, you sign here, you can start work the beginning of next month.
Did you ever take History 231?
The fare is $ 1.25.
Yes, certainly. I'll be back in a minute. Here you are
Don't underestimate his taste. I don't think he'd like it.
What ’ s usually discussed at the department meetings?
Have I really got to do those exams again, Dad?
Well, we have a tradition in my family...
How should we commemorate the centenary of the founding of the university? We have been given quite a large budget to pay for some events.
Yes. It's perfect.
I guess so. While growing up, I read hundreds of interesting English storybooks every year.
Well, direct ones are the pollution directly from factories, refineries waste treatment plants etc., aren ’ t they?
I bought it on eBay. It was only one-tenth of the original price. And the purchase was so easy.
We'd like some local-flavored pastry. Can you recommend some?
Yeah, and every high school student in town is banging on your door, right?
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth! That was the best they had.
Yeah! It reminds me of the previous Star Wars scenes.
But, Sharon, that's illegal! The police could come, and we could go to jail.
Hello, John, please invite all our clients to the conference next week.
You only care about your work.
But she was in America! Shouldn't she have known that strong handshakes in America signify confidence and respect?
Can you tell me what time we're arriving?
I really like Japanese or Thai food.
Okay. What day would you want your home phone cancelled?
Don't mention it. You can come whenever You are free.
It is. I'm on a diet and strawberry cream cheese cake is not on it.
Apple pie is my favorite dessert.
There are restaurants with food from all over the world. We have a small china-town near the city centre. There are many Indian, Thai, and Italian restaurants all over the city centre. There are many sports events in my city. We have several sports venues for football, rugby, and cricket-even ice-skating and ice hockey.
It's on me.
On the fourth day, we went to taste the French cuisine. That was really fantastic. And no stomach problems.
hey, you look great! how's everything?
Just tell me what you'd like me to do.
Mom, can I have some ice cream?
A soft seat or hard one?
I like the back best. I am good at freestyle stroke, but I usually use breast stroke as it keeps me from getting tired.
I am sure I can get a 95 this time.
Of course not.
Of course. We are always at your service.
It just started happening last night.
That sounds great! I am craving some type of beef dish.
Only when I go out. I'm not a big drinker.
Ah, ah, you promised, and remember?
So that we can sit down together and listen to some music.
No I don't.
I'm glad to meet you, Mr. Zhuang. Sit down, please.
Wo, wo, that certainly is a lot for a young man to take on.
No. Just some fun in the sun. We really need to get away and relax for a few days.
Why can ’ t you tell me?
Twenty minutes just to find out what their business hours are?
We could take out some advertisements to local newspapers. I checked the prices and they are reasonable.
Hi, sir. My name is Michelle. Could you tell me when you need the room?
Oh, believe it or not, I came across an article the other day, saying that pizza is a healthy food.
Yes, within New York.
That ’ s too high.
Can I give her a message for you?
My boyfriend is an attorney and told me that I could fax him anything if I had a question.
Oh, my God. I can't take it any more.
eyes, you sent them to New York, right?
Would you like to make a withdrawal?
OK, I'll take it.Here ' s the money.
Oh really... well you must be very popular on the Internet. But it's true that it's nice to do some things in the comfort of your own home.
I have a Canon SLR.
That ’ s both fortunate and unfortunate. It’s the United Nations in my class! We have people from all over the world! There are three Germans, a Pole, a Scottish, two French, an American, a Brazilian ,
Our Company is moving overseas and I wish to stay in the United States.
It keeps turning off on it's own.
It looks like it was made just for you.
I suppose the local one.
That's incredible!
Do you ever ask you bank for traveller ’ s cheques? They are much safer than carrying lots of cash around.
That's why I can profit from it!
Maybe you have food poisoning.
Hi, Linda. I have two concert complimentary tickets. Will you go with me tonight?
only about 5 minutes.
I think it fits you. It flatters your figure.
500 dollars, please.
I am in no particular hurry.
Did you have any publications?
Alright, sir. You are making a good choice.Honda has made a lot of design improvements in the new Accord.
I understand. And where will you be going?
That's not the reason. I have to go to the English Corner tomorrow evening. You know, I've been going there every week.
Now we're getting to the truth.
Yes, we do, Madam. Thank you, madam. Here ’ s our welcome brochure with all of information of our facilities. My name is John. If you need any help do let me know. I ’ m at your service.
That's a thought. It's still early, and the beach isn't crowded at this time of the day. If we don't stay too long, we won't get sunburned.
Can you tell me, Ms. Smith, about the training programs you initiated this year?
maybe you have a point.
Sorry. I'm strictly a spectator-football, baseball, basketball, golf... I watch them all.
Come here, please.
all right. i'll give it a try.
You only need to tell me that once.
Not at all. It's no problem.
All right, Alice. But this is the last time. I also have a lot of work to do.
I have never tried it.
Do I check in for the train D8 08 to Shanghai here?
Yes, don't use the lifts. We have regular fire drills so you'll soon become familiar with the procedure. And always shut the fire doors to prevent the fire spreading.
Yes, I am looking for a coat.
Do you get much rain during the summer?
Hi, Jeny.Are still working?
I hate dentists.
Oh baby, I ’ m so sorry.
I am pleading not guilty.
My friend's room? Oh, I see. Thanks a lot.
Hey, if you're not busy this weekend, would you like to go see a movie?
Can you deliver it, please?
I can't answer that. But I think Mars will be visited by men before theed of this century.
It doesn't cost anything?
The workmen oughtn't to leave it without a no tice.
Choose what you want and push the button. Sometimes it takes a couple of tries.
OK, it's no problem.
In three years your lease will be up.
Really? I can't believe it. Everything is possible to a willing heart.
My watch stopped and I didn't know. I certainly need to buy a better one.
Twice a week for work and once for shopping.
I just checked the oil myself, but you can check the tires.
Are they urgent, please?
Thanks for your time. I'll go and discuss everything with my partner and I'll be back later.
Let me take a look. All right, that ’ s no problem. See you then.
She would be laughing one moment, and if I said something insensitive, she would start crying. I didn't want to deal with that.
I'd better exercise my body too.My limbs are rusty now.
Just hang on there a sec. Can I get a price check on ” Fun Times Ribbed Condoms ” please!
Shall we have two tickets for for seven thirty?
Certainly, what time will you come back?
Can we sit on the grass, darling?
On, darn. The grocery store is closed.
What's in it?
Here, sir. Sit down in this wheel chair.
Maybe. I'll have to ask my mother.
Sure, but let's get a pitcher this time We should be able to down it before they close.
Thank you, but I prefer the fish
I'd like to come in tomorrow morning at 9
Well, come and talk to me then.
I go to Sons for my groceries.
Yes. And don't forget to list them by date. Besides, you should begin with the most recent and then move backward.
That sounds really convenient. Do you pay extra money to enjoy this service?
Yeah, how do you like him?
Oh, I no longer work there. I'm working with a multi-national corporation.
Oh, It’s open. Thank you very much.
Are you coming to the bridal shower for Jane?
I'm having problems with my computer.
I just finished reading this article ' Getting Old Gracefully '. It's a very good article.
I think it's running late.
What we can do is to assign you a customer manager, that way you can just deal with him. You don't need to deal with anyone else.
Would you like to drink some coffee?
I will take you to Li River after walking around here.
Mary, can you help me set the table?
Let's kick off our shoes to walk on the green flag stoned roads.
But I ’ m not in there very often. It’s so noisy that I can ’ t work.
Just a minute. It's ten to nine by my watch.
Here's the application form.
That's correct, Sir. The bank will issue receipt to you and also take care of all the pledged securities.
Yeah, I will be there.
What style would you prefer?
he made a lot of noises while eating. He talked with his mouth full and sipped loudly.
Well, do you want to go outside for dinner?
Why do you want to teach at our school?
OK. Mr. Wang, may I send a room attendant to check it for you first?
What subject do you like best?
That's what I was afraid of.
It's rather expensive, isn't it?
I knew there would be a few choices, but this selection is huge!
We'll just give you a credit for the inconvenience.
What would you have for a la cane?
OK, no problem. Let me take your measurement.
Good morning, madam. Can I help you?
Please give me a piece of pie first.
That's right. His voice ranges from the smooth sound of ballads to the highpowered rhythms of the Spanish Caribbean where he grew up. He has fan clubs across the world, from America to Russia, from England to Taiwan, from Norway to Australia.
Where is the fitting room? I don't see it.
It's time to get up!
You ’ ll need to make an appointment to view the apartment.
So I don't have to pay anything?
I'll go and quit my job in the ABC Company.
Yes, some people even pack up his bed quilt and sleep there. That's a little bit crazy.
Your throat is inflamed.
Could you pass me the jacket with wide lapels?
Name and examination number, please.
I'm terribly sorry. Won't you let me pay for it?
I've moved.
... The rings please. May this ring be blessed so he who gives it and she who wears it may abide in peace, and continue in love until life ’ s end.
Yes. I buy a lot of stuff from there. It's a good shop, isn't it?
Do you know how to play go?
You should attend a department meeting every Monday morning. There are other meetings for people working together on certain projects.Department heads also attend an interdepartmental meeting each wee
Really? I am too happy.
Hum... I say 5 500 yuan. That's as cheap as it can get.
Each copy will cost you a dime, sir.
The skin of Cantonese style cakes is soft and puffy with heavy stuffing while the skin of Suzhou style cakes is puffy filled with fragrant nuts.
I guess you have a point.
Hello.Is this room service?
I know... I know... it's all my fault. I feel awful that I didn ’ t study, and I cheated, and I got caught.
Eric Chang in accounting?
Do you have some chocolate cakes?
Do you mean to suggest that we have to make a further reduction of 50 dollars in our price? That's impossible.
Ok, do you want us to use starch?
Yes, I would like to place an order for toner cartridges. We have a standing agreement with you company, so we will need the same amount as last time.
Let me see... Wednesday morning. Yes, I am booked solid all morning. What ’ s up?
do you make a lot of traditional British food?
Don ’ t be moody! I hope you ’ re not tired, because we ’ Ve been invited to a party this evening. I know how excited you get about parties.
No problem. I don't have a dog or a cat.
Little dude, your life is over!
Didn't I?
Great. I want to get an idea for the purchasing ability in various countries.
Yes, furthering my education is already bringing about positive results in my workplace as it has boosted my confidence.As well the tutoring system my school employs offers courses uniquely suite
What do you think of the Olympic motto ' Higher, faster and stronger '?
I have no idea. I like cooking by myself. I like to taste delicious food.
How should I contact them?
What ’ s your city like?
no, it's all included. Besides, students don't have to pay council tax, so we're saving quite bit of money by living here.
That sounds so interesting. I wish I learned a hobby.
We actually met at a dance party. He fell for me.
You'd better bring some medicine for airsickness.
Sure. Our special wine today is a 1989 Chardonnay.
Sorry, I never go out on Saturday evening. I always watch football on Saturday evening.
It’s a great opportunity. You should be happy with the offer.
Watch out, Jenny! Be careful of the cars.
So, how much say do the stockholders really have?
Yes, in this position I was able to make some pretty significant contributions to the overall success of the company. With the different initiatives that we implemented, we lowered our churn rate to about five percent, which had a direct impact on revenue.
I think maybe one day you can take part in the walking race.
I ran into it a couple of weeks ago. What do you know? Name's Hal.
Yes, of course. I can't wait to be there.
I guess if I only have a few days, I should probably think about going somewhere that isn ’ t far away.
Yes, I do. I have made reservations under the name of Wang.
Let's go into the restaurant and find a table to order some food.
Thank you, Bob! This past week has been the beginning of Armageddon for many, a series of unprecedented meteorological events occurred around the world. In Switzerland, a major avalanche was reported in the Alps. Fortunately, no one was injured. Due to to the extreme cold this winter, a blizzard has struck the US Midwest, causing classes in schools and universities to be temporarily canceled.
I am diligent and hard-working. Besides, I am good at both English and Italian.
Good! Me too! By the way. you didn't tell me what you are studying here.
It is so very kind of you. I'm so moved by you.
What ’ s the problem, Ms. Murphy?
Do you have any idea how many you'd like?
No, sir. I'm afraid not.
What ’ s wrong with the check?
that sounds good.
All the soldiers in that country are armed to the teeth.
For my part, xiangqi. Maybe it's because my girlfriend is Chinese.
You think It’s better that he should be told?
I think you ’ Ve included all the essential things. You might want to make the conclusion a little longer. Restate your reasons clearly.
I like it well-done, please.
We export some coal to European countries, but our biggest exports is copper, which we export to Europe, north America, and China.
I don't know. I just woke up.
Hello! So you are leaving today.
I ’ d better go tomorrow.
Are there any other jobs waiting for me in the future?
In that case, here's my VISA.
Let ’ s go for a joy ride.
I would've come to see you sooner, but I've been busy too.
No, I knew it all along. He was the obvious choice.
Here we are, you still get plenty of time. That's 8.15 $, please.
Yes, I know. I regret it very much.
Would you like to reserve a private dining room?
True. I would like to have some salmon sashimi and a roast salmon head.
almost always. However, sometimes they get mad at me for not giving them any cash.
You're in one of those in-between stages, aren't you.
With the cut I'll give you, we will minimize a lot of that.
Do you like flowers?
Great! I asked Grace to bring cups and serviettes as she is also bringing two big coolers for the beers.
Is there probation?
May I have the key for Room 358, please?
I can ’ t make out anything, the words are too light. I thought they have already changed the toner cartridge this month.
OK. What kind of gas do you want?
I didn't know you were scared of heights! Was it really bad?
First, the languages on the label should be in both English and French. Second, the red color doesn't suit our national customs. Could you print the label in some light colors such as yellowish or bluish?
Sure, here it is.
Get on the bus heading west.
That's right. Just a simple multi-vitamin that I can take every day.
And he is English! He makes a model gentleman when he puts on a black suit and speaks with a typical British accent.
I can ask the boss about giving you the day off today.
That's the best there is.
I really have no excuse, madam.
Ok. Then I can make up my mind.
I'm not sure when it started. But I know it's older than me. As a young boy, I used to eat here a lot.
Yes, are you?
That's a real achievement. How did you do that?
Let's just say I screwed up more than my econ class.
Hm? Oh, that's Alice. She's totally mad. Don't get yourself in a room alone with her.
Remember to add an agenda for this meeting and show our warm welcome to them.
We don't.
Yes, we can also see some yew trees.
Excuse me, sir. But please call an ambulance. My friend suddenly got a sharp pain in the stomach.
Of course I did. Here is the receipt.
No, thank you. I had too much to drink yesterday evening. I had a bad hangover this morning. My head felt terrible.
I'll try my best. With a toward to having with this tonight, Mr.Berman.
Yeah but the bus takes a long time. You could fly - It’s not so expensive these days.
Why? Looks like you're feeling very down! What happened?
It's all or nothing.
Then I might as well have it done now.
Mr.Smith called just now that he had to fly to Shanghai on urgent business today.
Yes, of course. Do you like a jade necklace?
So what are you going to do? Take up an art class or something?
You tell me.
Let me stop my car for check. Oh, my god. I got a flat tyre.
Hey, Joe! Where have you been these past few days?
So, I wish to apply for the sole agency of your product in our local market. If you give us the agency, that will be more substantial for our cooperation.
You might consider listening to relaxing music as you go to sleep to clear your head.
Do you live in Pasadena?
Hey, Jim. It's time to wake up and get out of bed.
That's the point. Your overhead is in your domestic price, but it can't be carried in the CIF price.
Speaking. May I ask whom I am talking to?
I will help to prepare food, feed animals and clean up. I ’ m very excited about it now.
We agreed that the deadline was next Friday.
Are you feeling better?
Outlets have more reasonable prices.
Do you have your passport with you? Or do you by any chance know the number?
We have some quality-control problems. Mr. Zhang. We need to go to the source to work them out.
Thanks. This shipment is so important to us there cannot be any foul-ups.
There are so many people that the tickets are all sold out!
But it's Saturday!!
I'm not cooking dinner.
Let me think... accounting, finance, something like that.
Does 6,30 suit you?
She has a yellow dress on and red sneakers.
How time flies. Look, the president of the college has come onto the stage.
He is really great. He has sold millions of records worldwide. He is especially known for his rocking performance at the football World Cup song-the Cup of World.
Perhaps I'll agree with Mike. I couldn't stand a big wedding with many relatives and friends of my parents or my wife whom I'd never met before.
Probably we can put one on that counter. And we can put one on the floor by the bed. Over there.
Hello, this is Li King. Can I talk to your manager?
I can get that for you.
Is this one fit for you? It is nice.
My father wants me to work as a trainee in his company.
Great. Why don't we start on the machines?
I regret to say I can't accept your suggestion.
Maybe tomorrow. I don't feel like it tonight.
Hi, I'm here to look at the one-bedroom apartment you have for rent.
Good morning, sir, can I help you?
The problem is that I find all of them are full of fun. I just don ’ t know what to do first.
What do you need to know?
All right. I'll cook for you.
That's annoying, but nothing to worry about.
Do you have enough money?
That's done. There is more than enough to cover the contract amount in our account.
Yes, but we shouldn't get any thing too big.Remember it has to fit in with our living room furniture.
I'm not sure, what about you?
most of the time we were lucky, but once a tree from our front yard was ripped out by its roots and ended up in our living room.
Excuse me. I wonder if you could help me. I'm looking for the Oriental Pearl Theater.
Yeah, so do I.
It's not your fault, Yuri.But tell me. When will Ivan be able to get out there?
It feels a little tight around the waist. Do you have a bigger one?
Hello, my name's David Wong. I've ordered a sofa from you last Wednesday. I wonder when it will be delivered today.
Isn't the shape cool?
You ’ d better overcome your nervousness. it is considered an indication that you lack self-confidence.
Who taught you how to cook this well?
I am ready to make my plea.
The Brazilian team versus the American team. Don't miss it.
Are there any special unemployment forms I need to fill out?
Matinee or evening?
then SOHO is your ideal work style.
I don't think Joe has done such a thing. Don't believe things in haste.
Oh, all right. I need some new shirts, too. Let ’ s go after breakfast.
Dial-up is connected through your phone, unlike DEL.
OK, OK. I ’ ll do my best.
They're quite nice. But I'm afraid they're quite a bit expensive.
You're right. And I also meet many new friends while collecting stamps.
I'll give you a series of specific skin tests. Then we'll know exactly what substances you're allergic to. Then I'll give you some causes of desensitization therapy.
It’s a natural resources that we hardly use. Government policy is to conserve those forests.
Hi, welcome to the Belt Department. Can I help you today?
Sometimes, but I guess not very often. It's more for fun. Sometimes when I'm on a trip, for example, I can take a picture and send it to my kids. Or I can send a picture of a sample back to my office and get it costed up immediately.
Who ’ s your favourite player?
Let me affirm this again - the first shipment of 1,000 cases, to be delivered in 27 days, by June 30, and the second shipment of 2,000 cases by August 15. Right?
Yes, I want to change some money.
You are so kind. Thank you very much.
Ok, sir, it sounds like you might have a virus.
Don't we all... hey! Your cousin sells gift items?
Oh. is it. Thank you anyway.
Did you say that Ted was at your mercy?
I don ’ t have it.
Thank you. Good bye.
Mom, just ten more minutes. The show is going to be over soon.
I have an appointment at one fifteen.
I'm really sorry, Ethan. I tried so hard, but I'm afraid I could't find a Dutch restaurant in town. The best I could do was a German one about 15 minutes from here.
I only have small boxes. Do you want one?
What made you decide to join our company?
Maybe you'll only feel that way on Father's Day.
I understand that.
It's fine for most time of the day. But don't have tea before bedtime.
Good.If you happen to see Jim and Bob on the way see if they would like a game of singsong.
Sure, I ' ll have a Corona.
Matt, I'm going to ask you some questions about pet.First question, do you have a pet?
Hello, excuse me!
I agree with that, it just doesn't work for me.
Great. Thanks so much for your time.
Yes, I'd like to send this book to France.
I'm looking for a grocery store. Are there any around here?
Then you're not going to go to sleep.
My graduation thesis is on International Trade.
It is beautiful.
See, I had a burger for lunch yesterday.
Because it's impossible to improve listening level within a week.
Stand back from the door, please. There're plenty of seats in the rear.
I'm very hungry, Donald. What can I eat?
You know who won the election, right?
I'm sure. You know my major is statistics and I get excellent records in all of the courses I have taken.
He looks like a very personable man.
Are you crazy? You made the mistake and now you're charging me for your mistake?
Hello. I'm a Financial Manager in a local company and we'd like to open a Foreign Currency Account with you.
Things are going fairly well. How about you?
Sure, here you are. It comes to $ 84.
I think you make the right decision.
They were about forty dollars.
Here you go. Same pan, but with a state-of-the-art, heat-resistant plastic handle.
That sounds reasonable. Let me think it over. And I'll call your back to make reservation.
I would like to have an international call to Paris. Can you tell how to do it?
I love snowy, because it is very very romantic.
Well, that sounds better than giving it up.
The last one clockwise.
... And now, let ’ s go to Kenny Williams for today ’ s weather forecast.
I think is sensible to buy products that is high quality than others when you want to buy something that's going to last a long time, but I don't think it always makes sense.
In that case, I won ’ t keep you.Remember to give me a call.
Sorry, but she's out.
Anything you would like to know?
I'm afraid he's not in at the moment Dave. He went out about an hour ago and he's not back yet.
No way. Do it yourself.
Yes, I've got the address.
Yes. See you then.
I like talking to you, too.
And I've ordered the supplies.
Well, I think I want to order the new Accord then.It looks like an excellent car.
You sound quite knowledgeable.
You shouldn't be so negative.You ' ll always have some co-workers that are harder to work with than others.But if you are negative and start name-calling in the office, it will make a bad working environment for everybody.
Call me tomorrow, and we'll get started.
how old is she?
I ’ m thinking of making an album, you know.
I need help in ordering my office supplies.
Soda isn't the best thing to drink when you're thirsty.
It looks like you all had a nice time.
Did you want it with cheese?
Katherine? Well, she's good at languages.
Now and then.
And it takes up all the news.
Currently we are looking for business opportunities in northeast China.
Well, what kind of salary do you provide?
That's what I thought. It seems that he's been seeing someone else for about two months.
Good. So, which is your top choice?
All right, expecting you.
Yeah, but nothing was clear during the test.
Travel by the buses? That sounds interesting.
Can you mail this at the post office for me? I have to go to the doctor for an appointment and I don't have enough time to go to the post office.
How about the price of the hardcover?
Anyway, I have to face the music this time.
Oh, my God. It's so dangerous. And he might break his leg. You mustn't do anything like that.
Yes. And something else, please don't borrow my clothes without asking.
Terrific. May I stop by to get that two tickets tomorrow afternoon?
Well, I have to drive to school for a meeting this morning, and I'm going to end up getting stuck in rush-hour traffic.
If I may ask, are you happy with your salary?
Good afternoon, ma'am. May I help you?
I want to apply for a passport here.
do you have experience in the IT field?
Crouch down and try not to breathe in the smoke.
Only one. In this case, I have a camera.
Mmm, I don ’ t think the charges are right, can you explain them please?
Yes, probably but I may look for another one when we're settled in.
You look very well, Jimmy. You are better now, but you mustn't get up yet.You must stay in bed for another two days.The boy mustn't go to school yet, Mrs Williams. And he mustn't eat rich food.
No, I just want to use the bathroom.
Good. A wrapping that catches the eye will certainly help push the sales. With competition from similar garments producers, the merchandise must not only be good value but also look attractive.
Well, there are adhesive strips on the backs. You can stick them anywhere.
What? Leftovers of what and from when?
Everything that you see on the walls, floors, and windows is brand new.
Hum, Edward Norton, or something like that. Did you like him?
what a pity.
To have this business concluded, I should say a reduction of least 10 percent would help.
That will work out fine. To make sure everything goes together, do you think this party should be casual or dressy?
Really? Tell me about some of the plants they showed.
I just sense. But I cannot grow anymore. My boss is not really supporting me. I am interested in some positions in other JV companies, but I need to do some more in-depth research before I send my application letters out.
I'm so sorry. Kindly tell me what the problem is, sir.
I'm glad you enjoyed it.
Were you wearing your glasses when you noticed them, sir?
I need to know if I have any fees to pay.
Fortunately, there is no person died.
Let ’ s meet at 12:30. it will probably take us there or four hours to see all of the exhibits.
I'm an engineer, I work for Boeing. Say, would you like a drink?
How do I make a good impression in the interview?
The copier is right over there.
ha, well, we have no choice.
We've been able to survey and track some of the information of our website users through some cookie technology, and it's surprising to see the results.
I want to transfer $ 200.
Yeah, I know her pretty well.
She went over the edge after her son was killed in an accident.
I was just watching TV. What's going on with you?
I need to use a pen.
Herman, why are you so excited?
You're probably right, do you intend on going to the party?
By the way, have you double checked your flight time?
Which charges are you talking about?
I speak English and French in addition to my mother tongue, Chinese.
What qualities do you think are important to this position?
I need to find a new way of getting my insurance.
So far it looks like we will be leaving two hours late, but keep checking the departing flights status board just in case.
Great idea! Peter, I could use the drink.
Yes, and I agree with all his policies.
At 10:20
but I'm afraid the price hikes will spill over from food into other areas of the economy.
You mean, xiangqi pieces are allowed a larger space in which to move around?
You go figure it out yourself.
We're planning a weekend camping trip, and we want to know which weekend is best for everyone.
That's a pretty short essay.
Oh, how wonderful. I ’ ll be glad to.
Honey, we're in the museum now. We're not here to discuss your coworker's love life. We're here to enjoy the great paintings by Picasso!
I think our son was trying to pull a fast one on us.
I like this shirt.How much is it?
Let me guess, your parents want you to marry a Chinese man, right?
All the fears are nothing. You can make it. There is no other choice for you. Be brave.
Let me tell you what happened to my homework.
Let me see... two books... birdseed?
Jeans and a tee shirt, right?
I like this apartment. Do you think we can afford the mortgage?
sounds that way. Maybe some other time then?
We talked to our older brothers and sisters last night and got the scoop on what that job is all about.
Thank you for hiring me. I'm very proud to be employed by your firm.
What other forms will I need to turn in?
It is not only the earthquake, sir. But the mudslides.Much of the north half of the site has been covered over by mud.
Whew! Thanks, Karen. That car almost hit me.
According to the company rule, we should punch in before 8 o ’ clock and punch out after 5 o ’ clock every work day.
Yes, I'll be promoted to department manager.
They sure did.
Then you'll need to know it's a hard job. You'll often have to work overtime or even on weekends.
( After trying ) Mm, this pair fits me well. I'll take it. How much is it?
Here's one little hint. If you don't go out right now, this won't be under the tree.
Sure. The main courses are roast Beijing duck and fried eel slices.
What kind of dancing do you like?
good. How about your cover letter?
Hey, Mom, look what I found!
They're okay, I guess.
We also will have to check your department budget. Do you know how much money you have for office supplies?
All I get is a black screen.
It is ok. You look really pale and red eyes. I suggest you go home immediately and have a good rest.
Gentleman! Hah! Fat chance! Hah! Eat your heart out, sucker! Hah!
So they create viruses to tell people they are smart? That's really sick.
You can't be serious. How dare you not tell me you are going to marry her?
I just wanted to say thanks for putting us on the map so fast. I appreciate it.
I think so.Thank you.
Now, hand me the hammer and those nails, please.
of course I can. In fact, if there are other job opportunities at this new company, I'll recommend you personally.
Yes. Thank you for inviting me.
You are so lucky. They are on sale today. It costs only 250 yuan. Pay at the counter over there.
Do you have to water it now?
Very good. We will discuss the matter again at the next Fair.
Does it work?
Hmm. I know you taught in Costa Rica also.Which did you like better--Costa Rica or Taiwan?
Ok, I can see that road.
I know what the characters on the paintings mean. I think Chinese characters look very artistic. It’s said that the way they are written can give insight into the artist ’ s character.
What kind of music do you enjoy listening to?
The owner said that the roof had leaked, but that he got it fixed last month.
There are passport processing center in many places. Visa is dealt with in embassies. You need to complete several forms and provide certain certificate.
The most important thing I learned was that I must continuously improve my abilities. Advertising is a constantly evolving trade and creativity is an important fact in success. If I want to make in marking in advertising history, I can ’ t stop studying and creating.
How could I get there?
Good evening! This is Mr. Smith in room 609.
All right, all right. I understand.
Three. Two boys and a girl.
Yes. Do you exchange foreign money here?
Good afternoon. What can I do for you today, Madam?
So what happened next?
Have you run into your cousin Jimmy lately?
That's a good idea. All right, I ’ ll withdraw and get down to it if you don't mind.
I am going to send you to a neurologist for a few tests.
I want to draw some money from my current account.
What kind is most durable, please?
doctors are always delightful.
sounds great. see you then.
That's really surprising. I always thought they are well matched. What about the kids? Who get custody?
I saw the whole thing happen.
That's true. But I just love it. Come here!
It's not expensive. OK. I'll take them.
What do you want to know?
Yes, I know what to do.
OK, here you are. Please sign your name here.
Where have you put it?
Start the car.
Let me have a look. Whoa! Get away from me!
Excuse me, I need to get to Cambridge today.
Premium, PLS. Could you check my tyres, too? I think they need air.
Fine, and after dinner, shall we go to a disco?
Not a problem. We offer a Personal Loan for Studying Abroad for anyone who's studying overseas, regardless of the circumstances. Anyone is eligible to apply
Happy new year!
Hello, ABC company.
Thank you, sir. You'll be in room 507, nonsmoking, with a queen-size bed. Do you approve, sir?
I wanted some chips at lunch today, so I spent it.
Hold on, before you kick your car let ’ s go through some possible problems.
Do you have any other symptoms?
I see. This sounds interesting! Maybe my teacher isn ’ t so horrible after all.
Yes. I was awarded the title of Advanced Worker last year.
Yes. I will.
It would be good if you could get them to me by Thursday afternoon, Ms. Barkley.
Sure. Meet me at five.
Sure, but I don't drink much. So I don't know what to order.
Our red wine is very famous. I'd suggest you try that.
Where did you spend your holiday?
The performance is excellent.
Here's one — the new, beautiful Digital Barbie. This doll is hot!
That ’ s more than my round-trip ticket!
Fine, I'll go do that for you.
Excuse me, could you tell me where Peking University is on this map?
Well, tell me. How was the labor and delivery?
I don ’ t think so. I think the government should do everything it can to discourage people from smoking.
Why not? We should do it. Because now we can afford it.
Right at the bridge?
If you ask me, I have to disagree. Something shouldn't be watched for fun.
What ’ s wrong with climate? Anyway, I think the sand storm happens more frequently these days than the years before. Can ’ t people do something to stop it?
Oh, so he ’ s half Chinese and half American. That ’ s unusual. What languages does he speak, then?
You don't make any prior appointment, do you?
Yes, summer is coming.
And the gym hours are?
Is the bus ride long?
Good morning. Could I speak to someone in the sales department, please?
Well, maybe you could get a two-bedroom apartment downtown and share the rent with a roommate.
I don ’ t think that it will take as long as the response to the first offer.
Welcome! Come in, please!
I am having a party Saturday night at my house. If you have time, you should come.
This is going to take more time than I thought.
When? I saw him well last month.
What are we going to eat for dinner?
Unfortunately, I missed a chance to see a classic movie.
Every so often. It is very convenient and the price is lower than in stores.
I'd like to buy a toy car for my son.
What would you do without me?
Why are you handing me a plastic cup?
It’s Marcia Gleason.
We'll talk about the financial report for the first half of the year.
Do you have any hobbies?
No, but I can write very fast.
I have a stomachache.
Why are you quitting?
Not really, especially at the beginning, if you wear high heels all day long, your feet would hurt. But, no big deal. Women can always get used to that.
You may put it that way if you like. Don ’ t worry. You ’ ll have no problem.
I ’ m worried about my daughter. She can ’ t decide about college.
Mm, they taste delicious. Let's settle the bill.
I think I like classical music better.
3.5 dollars each.
didn't I tell you? We're going to Shanghai to stay with them in June.
I don't care. I need money.
Have you eve worked with tape recorders before?
No, I haven't seen those spots.
I have a lot of them.
Don't worry! Today they are wearing dresses!
And it says that it sleeps.
Nothing much, what's going on?
I'm not sure. I know I should know that, but I can't remember right now.
200yuan. I bought a computer online, so I have to pay the mortgage.
Tomorrow night would work for me.
It's nice of you to see my off at the airport. Thank you very much.
Why not? Oh well, I'm ready to eat. No need call the doctor. If we run to the restaurant, I can make it to the restroom and you can order.
It's very exciting. I think.
Does it ever! Well, let ’ s get started. If you could begin typing this letter now, I ’ ll see what else needs to be done.
What ’ s this here – “ house stock ”?
Thank you. I'm going to bed.
Someone brings a truck to the game and we have a barbecue right there in the parking lot out of the back of the truck!
Mr. Lin, what are you interested in?
Hmm. Are you sure that will work? I already tried giving chocolate to Lester.
And how long do I have to stay in Berlin for the connecting flight?
Actually, one just left ten minutes ago. The next one is at two forty-five, debates at five thirty-five.
Just whose fault is this damage?
Hello, this is Hilton Hotel. How may I help you?
well, there are a lot of things, like reading news, email, shopping, etc. but mostly I chat online. You could say I'm addicted to online chatting.
Super. How long will I have to sit under the Hot Cap?
What about $ 800?
I understand. I live in the Oakfield area and paid $ 100,000 for my home.
Oh, yeah. I ’ m there!
Well, I seem to be a little bit lost here. I am worried that I ’ ll never find my way. What's worse. I forgot my glasses and as blind as a bat now.
I want to settle my account.
He is an all-right guy. I have no bone to pick with him.
Yes. I would like to go to New York for my Christmas vacation.
500 US dollars.
you said it. I think we should tighten our budget and cut our spending.
No problem. That happens to all of us, it goes badly with the traffic.
I'm having a hard time getting the information.
Yes, I believe so.How should I compensate for this?
Thank you. He ’ s very lucky indeed.
That price is perfectly acceptable.
Can you give me a hand with the dishes?
I've enjoyed conversing with you.
But what if I need my money suddenly?
That ’ s it.
Yes, it took a year and a lot of initiative to get that account.
Well, don ’ t be late. I ’ ll see you on Friday at helen ’ s.
My dream home is actually just a small cottage in a quiet village in England.
Hello.This is room 1205.Our message lamp is flaming.
what kind of services do they offer?
Do you remember when and where you last saw it?
This is room eleven-seven and my name is Terry Chen.
Thank you for your interest. The position is still available. Have you already sent your CV to us?
Yeah, It was scary but exhilarating.
Hey, Mary, nice to see you again. I heard you're going back home to the U. S.
What's the movie about?
That's no problem. I just wanted to tell you I'm inside.
May I have a reservation?
All our cars have stereos in them.Stereos, air conditioning. It's all standard with us.
Mexican, Japanese or Chinese would be great.
Since we have reached an agreement on all terms, there shouldn't be any problems for the contract.
It's beginning to spot.
Yes, my friend and I just had breakfast at the dining room, but we didn't use any services.
Don't worry. I know about this.
It’s on the first floor.
Some next week on, we should be in less of a rush.
Now, if I look here I see that you completed a BA in English?
I'm guessing that she's going to give me my invite today or tomorrow.
Maybe all of us are the same.
You have never missed an assignment before--when will you be making this one up?
It was one of the best times in my life. It was tough, but I made it. I became a college graduate.
Sure, if you would like one of those tables, I could seat you right away.
Hello. This is the front desk. What can I do for you?
In my spare time, I am fond of traveling and I always take a trip with my family.
Oh It’s printed the ticket already. Thank you very much.
Do you still play piano?
Great! So It’s almost the same as keeping it under the matters!
That's really cheap. I will take it.
Listen to the music? And who will cook dinner, will you?
The 10th? I'm sorry, but you see I'm going to attend an international conference on the 11th. Could you have the suit ready by the 8th, or at the latest, the 9th?
You can ’ t really tell everything about a house from the outside. Let ’ s go inside.
I'd rather not have it if you don't mind. I'll have soup instead. I'm supposed to be on a diet.
I think I will. Thanks for the info.
We'll try our best.
Great. What floor is the pharmacy on?
Oh, my god. What happened? Are we dying?
Are you kidding me?
I see an Open House sign over there, and I think we should go check it out.
I'm afraid there's been a mistake.
That will certainly cut down the processing time. We can move on to the next step. Do you have the purchase price?
What is there besides coffee?
Yes, I think you're right. I'm thinking about having a child, but not just yet.
Yes, we have. I ’ Ve brought with me a list of the quantity of your products we ’ d like to import for the second half of this year. Here is a copy of it.
OK. I like that green vegetable but I don't know how to call it.
You speak good English, though.
Certainly. A letter must be sent out of the company and must be mailed or posted. A memorandum is a communication within an organization.
So, now we have covered all the important points.
Hi, welcome to Rental Property Management. How can I help you?
That's seems obvious enough.then what about the software?
I'm wondering if you often trade with others on the internet.
Yes, here's your key. The bellboy will take you to your room.
Good morning, I ’ d like to book a flight from Beijing to Shanghai, please.
Hi. I ’ m calling about your continuing education program.
My name is Luo Gang, and the phone number is 513-3284.
What's on Channel 12 at 8: 00?
I am all set. He can come anytime.
I do like it. Can you come down a bit?
What are you and Corey doing for Valentine ’ s Day this Friday?
Don ’ t worry. I ’ ll open the window.
Did it ever shrink or fade? Generally speaking, the dark-colored clothes always fade away gradually.
That would ruin things, I want to go so badly.
You are friend of Janet, right? I am Andrew, Andrew Smith.
With invoking? No, thanks.
I really recommend you go for a run in the morning.
I see. May I have your name and room number, please?
I'm going to the movie theater with my friend. What are you going to do?
Well, they come in white, pale yellow, aqua, red and green. Will a white one do?
One screwdriver, coming right up. ( He mixes the drink. ) Here you are, sir.
Yes, she is. By the way, what is the best season in Beijing?
The ones that are on sale are from Central America.
From time to time we have a situation in which there are more passengers than there are seats on the aircraft. That ’ s overbooked.
Ok, well, my friends and I are planning on going to the beach on Sunday. We tend to leave around noon whenever we go anywhere, so you could still sleep in. Do you want to come with us?
I don't know what to say, Jack!
Oh, yeah! He can sit down, roll over, and even play dead.
I can ’ t believe she would do that to you. It’s so dishonest---and rude!
yes, I just adopted her from the humane society this weekend.
My laptop, do you see it?
I was thinking of pizza.
I am swapped with work after 10 - day holiday.
It is thoughtful. I will take it.
Tian'anmen Square.
Nothing unusual, I ’ m afraid.
I suggest you treat him with patience, affection, and respect. If he needs to do something, like go to bed, or be washed, etc., please guide or help him to get it done, but lead him with gentleness.
What should I do when I find a job?
Hi, Dad. Where are you?
I'm thinking of travelling to Suzhou in July. Could you recommend some tourist programs for that?
Let's have seafood for a change.How about oyster and lobster?
how long do you think this hailstorm is supposed to last?
hey, I started a diet and lost 10 pounds.
Huh? Oh, my name is Laura.
I see. Well, you have two choices ; you can renew it or redeem it. Which would you prefer?
Of course. What about you?
They must have mixed hackers with crackers.
You shouldn ’ t work so hard.
Hello, who's that speaking?
I think its critical advantage lies in its low cost. All you need is a racket, a table and a light celluloid ball. Tables are usually available in public recreation areas, like finest rooms, and outdoor playgrounds...
I read that he trained so much that he used to dream about jumping hurdles.
Who takes the dog on Saturday?
Ok, you could borrow one of mine.
Well, I think we'd better go now. We have to follow the guide.
But I thought this was the right bus to go to Washington Square Park.
Will my paycheck arrive late because I messed up on my form?
What does it do?
Mostly in the city's swimming pool. But on occasion, I go to the beach with friends. Well, what do you do at leisure?
Sure. What can you choose from?
Yes, this is Tom White.
I wish you luck.
Please tell me about work you have done, which qualifies you for this job.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Thank you. And what ’ s the best way to get downtown?
I'd like to extend my visa for another two years.
What can I expect when I take that medication?
Thanks. I'll get back to you.
What? 100 US dollars? Is it covered by the insurance?
Around 3:30.
Bruh, that doctors was on point.
Do you have a special restaurant in mind?
He lives nearby and he would just glance at the newspaper headlines, read the political sections and return them later.
Just a couple of weeks ago. It's usually very reliable.
The place is OK.Let ' s go there and have a look at it again.
Yes, I would, thank you.
No, that's 447-9626.
Well, thanks for letting me know.
Please write down your address and phone number, and sign here.
Well, let me check.We delivered four bags to room 1106, you friend's room about an hour ago.
when did you take your exams?
Ok. How many stops do I have to go?
It's a deal.
Can you tell me the specialty of your computer board?
Well, it's not how much, but what I'm going to buy that matters. I'm going ski shopping!
I don't know. My friend told me it was a touching movie.
Excuse me. I've been waiting here for 15 mins. Do you know how often does No. 3 run?
What time do you want the call?
Hmm, let me see... Boil some water.
Because you're from a foreign country. The school needs to find out how good you are at both basic skills.
When will you be convenient?
it's great! Unfortunately, we're going to spend a fortune doing everything up.
I went to Harvard University.
Yeah, that's her. We had a lot of wonderful times together. She is really a special friend, and I want to get her something meaningful.
I'm sorry. I've been having some problems.
you got fired for being a few minutes late?
Well, with dial-up your internet is connected by your phone line.
Susan! Why didn ’ t you tell me that you were taking over the Silk Company account?
It will be a long story. We have many differences, for example, she usually puts all her clothes into washing machine. That is the sort of thing I can not bear.
For what reason.
If I have a chance, I'll enjoy the book.
Well, I think a crystal chandelier would look great in your living room, and maybe some new drapes for the windows. Also, a grandfather clock would look great in the den. Perhaps you could buy some potted plants for the dining room
Let me see the notice. It is here. Our booth number is E108. Good number.
That's because your country is more agricultural and has much less industry.
Well, let ’ s get going then! I love road trips!
Good morning. How are you?
No, I'm strictly a spectator. I just like watching skating. It's so beautiful.
No, I don't think we have.
Finally we have a long holiday.
How do you like the pizza here?
She was a famous actress when I was still a schoolgirl.
Yes, we can handle that here. How can I help you?
What a pity you are leaving so soon. I wish you could stay a few more days. Sir, can you deliver a speech for us?
OK. Let's take a walk and look for a shop that does.
Think of something.
It’s a good thing I asked you.
Hey, Jim, It’s time to wake up and get out of bed.
What would you say are your strengths and weaknesses?
Will you take my materials back from him for me? Please!
No problem, sir. We'll manage it.
Thank you very much for taking your time. I ’ m still deciding. I will call you tomorrow.
OK. Hold on, please.
I'm Bill. I'm in Room 908. Can you change the room for me? It's too noisy. My wife was woken up several times by the noise the baggage elevator made. She said it was too much for her.
Is classical music your favorite?
He wants to know if you have bacteria in your urine, which could signal an infection.
Do you have any other accounts with this bank?
I ’ m sorry to hear that.You ’ d better stay at home.After all, we can visit Mrs.Brown later
Wish me luck.
I have some good news for you.
No, I don't need to. I took Advanced Placement English in high school.So I'm not required to take composition.
Of course. Turn right at the next intersection and go straight. The post office will be on your left ( side ).
So what were you calling me about?
I'm sure she knew you loved her. Did she pass away in the hospital?
He must be green. It’s lucky that we will get off soon.
I'm flying home on Sunday afternoon.
No, thank you. Please tell him to phone me when he comes back.
Yes, I've got that part covered.
I ’ m afraid there isn ’ t. My boss only pays lip service.
The Sons on Fair Oaks and Orange Grove.
I bought it one size up by mistake.
The chicken is out of this world!
It’s really elegant and it fits you really well.
How long do you want to keep it in our bank?
All you need to do is fill in the blanks correctly on the Continued Claim Form, and the EDD Office will take care of the rest.
Would you like something to drink, sir? Do you prefer coffee or tea?
I ’ m afraid a pencil won ’ t do. Wait a moment, I ’ ll find you one.
Go for it.
Really? that ’ s very good. What about French?
Yes, I'm looking forward to that! I just hope my first performance review is favorable.
I would like to return some books.
It's going to be shown to the Board so I need it in writing.Make all the prices subject to confirmation so you can't be held to them. How soon can I have it?
Linen.It ' s ideal for summer wear.
Do you think Tom will be elected president?
I know what you mean, but I'd rather be cold than hot.
OK. I am coming.
Hum, still a student?
I can't wait anymore. When does the performance start?
Hi. What's your name?
Yes. Right now it's the slack season so we will give you ten percent off.
No, he didn't tell me about it. Don't feel bad.
No good movies come to mind.
Well, it's snowing. Let's enjoy the plum blossoms when snowing.
Well, that's something I've never heard of. But if you ask me what I value most in a friend, I would have to say honesty.
Yes, it might be worth it. I am not certain.
How about that one?
How is it? Did you learn anything here? Why are you taking it again?
The salary will be deposited into the bank on the 15th every month. Your salary will be raised every year in October, depending on your performance evaluation.you can get a bonus once a year.and it's normally in December.
Well, thank you very much.
He didn't treat you that well either. Maybe you don't want to hear this, but I think you can do better.
But Mrs.Smith hired him to find her lost son.
What about the commission? From European suppliers, I usually get a 3 to 5 % commission for my imports. It's the general practice.
No, you needn't. A number 13 bus will also take you to the hospital.
Um, what will you do this weekend?
I'm glad to hear that. Congratulations!
It’s about fifteen minutes ’ walk. That ’ s all.
I was thinking of getting a hamburger, fries and a chocolate sundae.
The car is beautiful, isn't it? Come on inside and we'll discuss the price.
I felt that the food was pretty mediocre.
Excuse me? Can you do me a favor, please?
Yes, you will lose interest. I see that you have a 5 - year C / D with us. I'm sorry to tell you that would mean losing 6 months of interest as a penalty for withdrawing before maturity.
Okay, I'll look in the events section of the paper to see what's going on tonight. Hmm, we could go to a concert. There is a good one tonight. I bet it's not sold out. But, we'll have to drive an hour to the venue.
I haven't checked yet.
Any form of picture I. D. will do.
Hi, Mary. You look pale today. What's the matter with you?
Will you be depositing cash or a check?
Madam I ’ m not trying to kiss you! I am trying to demonstrate how to apply CPR in the case of an emergency.
Very well. Why do you want to disconnect your phone, sir?
Well, most of my time here was pleasant. And New York itself is fantastic.
Yes. What colors do you like?
And they, too, want to make sure their loan is worthwhile.
Dr Cook won't be able to see you at the time suggested.Could you make it a quarter to two?
Well, I want to change 1000 Australian dollars for RIB.
I ’ m afraid I have to go now. The plane will take off soon.
That's true. What kind of safety features are we talking about?
Is this the registration office?
No, that stuff isn't important to me.
Why don't you date up a handsome guy and spend time together?
All right. Do you want me to cancel the reservation for you?
Wait a minute. I am really sorry but I can't find it now.
You and Tom also make a great couple.
When I want Chinese food, I go to Panda Express.
Nothing serious. The right one needs some air.
Thank you. I want to continue to be able to recommend this hotel to others.
I'm so sorry, but rules are rules.
Uh-oh. I'm in trouble.
What should I do after that?
Just a second. I'll have to check that. Anything else I can do for you?
Yes, please. I'd like a cigarette, too. May I have one?
Hello, this is the property manager. How may I help you?
Yes, what do you have for appetizer?
I have a lot of work in the office and a lot of chores in the house.How I envy you, Robin!
when I first moved in, I walked everywhere. But within a week, I had my purse stolen — just a block away from the police station! Now, I always take public transportation.
I could help you with buying your books if you meet me there at 1
Yes, I just bought new car, I drive to work everyday!
Fine.Have a nice stay here.
Thanks, Miss. Wang.
Don ’ t mention it. I ’ Ve really enjoyed your company.
Do you like it here?
Let me have a look. Can you see there's a stone in your kidney?
I just make eye contact with him and nod my head. Then I tell him when he comes over to the table. Why do you ask?
How do you do that?
Are there the records of Michael Jackson?
Hi! Crenshaw and Hawthorne, at the Holiday Inn that is on that corner.
No. Fashion is just part of my life, which improves its quality. But also, I'm good at financing. I have a credit card, but I never overdraft.
Can I borrow five bucks?
Oh. I am not his fan.
Yes. She believes everything about him.
Okay, what should I do?
OK May I ask whether there is probation?
Yes, I'd like to try the blueberry pie.
No, you ’ re kidding. I ’ m not taking it seriously.
Good. I am here visiting my girlfriend. I want her to have a good time.
Where did you visit?
To where exactly?
No, Miss Anna, you must let me say how lovely you are! What's wrong with that?
Your face is so red, you must running a temperature.
that's kind of boring. Don't you want to tell them anything else?
Yes, I do. They are about two miles away, right?
Our production speed is almost twice the industry-wide average. And we've already expanded the factory this year.
I am looking for an article in a newspaper.
Sorry, I can ’ t.My mother doesn ’ t want me to be late. I really have to go.
And it gives you money?
I suggest you take this book.It ' s very exciting.
What ’ s the matter?
Our dress and grooming are probably the first thing an interviewer judges us by.
I see. I think the biggest environment problem in my country is air pollution.
It's so beautiful.
I thought that you had your own parking spot?
A hundred and eighty yuan for one way. We have a counter at the airport where our representative will lead you to the car.
there are basic decisions like which restaurant to go to. I can never seem to choose. I let my parents make big decisions for me. They chose my university and my course. I ended up studying something
I bought some chow mein at the cafeteria. It tasted great.
Definitely, or else, I will starve to death halfway up the mountain.
She has blond hair and blue eyes.
Thank you.here ' s 10 $, just give me 1 $ back, please.
How beautiful the flower is!
What about the fight schedule?
All right. Just a moment, please.
Home run by Okapi! That puts this team ahead by two as we are at the bottom of the fifth inning here at Richie Stadium!
In that case, let me have a glass of orange juice.
oh, how did you deal with it?
Excuse me, can you tell me where Main Street is?
Well, everybody wants the bottom bunk. Why don't we flip a coin for it?
How will you pay, cash or charge?
I think they gained courage after the mayor's speech last week on equality and opportunity for all town citizens. Anyway, the sentiments have been brewing for quite some time. I mean, we all know the working conditions at the factory are quite horrendous.
But I bought it to get rid of the heat. Now it does nothing but burning my head.
Yeah, or the expensive Italian facial treatments.
Our homeroom teacher has to take attendance again to make sure that we're all here.
What's the gate number?
Mmmm. That sounds like something I had in Mexico once.
We think the price is too high.
I'd be glad to. I love picnicking.
What about your mother? Did she help you?
Well. I ’ m sure the doctor will be able to prescribe something to make you well again. Dr. Jameson is very good.
Monica, wait a moment. I think we ’ d better call the repairman to do it.
And then I ’ m moving to Florida where I can play golf all day, every day!
Do you think that you want to try this restaurant another time?
Yes. I have worked part-time at a take away food store-the one just round the corner.
What's the matter, Andy?
Really? How did you get the chance?
Let's have lunch together today.
Constantly. Without doubt, and plays the lute. She has a natural ear.
It started yesterday. I didn't eat any supper.
Maybe that ’ s why your English is much better than my Chinese.
I think the most important thing is the nature of the job. One should never do anything one is not interested in. To me, pleasant working conditions with co-operative staff are also important.
Oh, good. Transfer, please.
When are you planning to go?
I've just been a little depressed lately.
I ’ m sure you can find your favorite there.
well, let's get a plate of those then.
"What are you doing? Checking the "" to do "" list for the wedding? "
Yes, it's the right size, but it weighs too much.
I need to copy some pages in my book.
Hmm... I'll tell you what. I'll lend you four thousand dollars, but you have to pay me back next week.
OK. What sort of agent, exactly?
What qualities do you think a senior executive should possess?
Yeah, I agree.Every wall has two sides.
Yes, I have. They do an excellent job.
Yes. You are reconfirmed on Flight No. 125 for Zhenjiang, leaving Beijing at 2:00 p. m. on January 15th.
I think I just have to accept the fact that it's time for us to go our separate ways.
Man, that was a really close game.
Then please look at this suit.
Good plan. What should we get for Mom though?
What? I am afraid you have made a mistake, I am leaving on July 21st alone.
All set. I've got my makeup, my Cds, and my portable TV set...
I still think we should have a realtor.We ' re new in this country. We don't know all the laws of buying a house.And also, the realtor will inspect the house.He can tell us if the house has
That's true. I guess it would be difficult to have people taking pictures of you everywhere you go.
"you know, it's OK for a girl to forget these "" big days "", but for a guy, to do that is unforgivable."
OK, I will have to take some details from you. Could you tell me your name, please?
It was made 4,000 years ago. It's priceless!
Yes. We have mineral water, orange juice, coke, which do you prefer?
Hello, Mr. Smith, I am returning to Shanghai by the 10:00 plane. I am calling to thank you for all your help during my stay here.
Last night I looked for my Indian classmate Barbara. I found her sitting with her legs crossed and quietly practicing.
I do. I don't know what to do after I retire. I'd like to work till I drop.
Everything that you need for a successful job search is here. Happy job searching!
Sure, who am I bidding against?
Jim. How are you? I haven ’ t seen you for a while.
Do you? Just a minute. Let me get the airsick bag ready... Here.
Very good. How much does each copy cost?
I understand that. If you can lower the price by 10 percent, we have a deal right now.
So Irene, what do you do?
All right. Just five minutes. Be sure not to touch anything.
Hello, Tom, are you free next Sunday?
That's only for your theory foundation. I am afraid if you have ever handled large amounts of cash before?
Yes, I have been invited by the East Import
You don ’ t like the dog? I promise I will never bring it with me!
What time do you expect him back then?
The color I use now is natural beige. How much do you sell it for?
That ’ s why it was so weird traveling from Beijing to LA! Because of the huge time difference, even though we left Beijing at noon and flew for more than eight hours, we still arrived in LA the same day at noon! It’s like we went back in time!
That sounds good. Let me see one.
Wei, you look really tired.
I don ’ t know whether I am a Barbie Doll or you are one.
Hey, check out this new game I bought today.
Sounds pretty good. What about the charge?
Would you like that drink blended or on the rocks?
Yes, the control unit is on the wall next to the bathroom. Is 24 ° C all right?
Yes, that is a lot of choices. What is your favorite?
No, not very much. He's too ambitious and dishonest.
Well, why should we hire you?
I wanted to go to Malibu beach.
Sure, we do.
Could I have your name again, please?
Do you want to go to the beach there?
Thanks a lot. I ’ Ve got one more question.
Are you serious? That will be wonderful!
Great. By the way, what does your friend do?
If he wasn't so lazy, I think I wouldn't have any complaints. He mows the lawn, but can you believe he tried to convince me to do it?
When Jo and I are together, we argue a lot, but that's also part of the fun. Besides, I know she will always be there for me when I need her, and she knows I'll be there for her.
I don't blame you for getting some rest.
It's for my daughter who is still a senior high school student.
I hope you like it. Oh, have the other guys arrived?
I am quite outgoing, I think. I enjoy mixing and doing things with others.
No, it's too expensive for me. I've decided to take some exercises on my own.
I have to work on Saturday all day! I really hate my job!
Ok. How many do you suggest?
Is this the right bus for the Grand Hotel?
I will send you an invoice in the next few days. Your order should be delivered before the end of the day on Monday.
Yeah, you are right. Let's stand. It takes only about 20 minutes.
Me too. Sometimes I surf online shops to check some related information, and then go to a physical store to do the actual shopping.
Did you go to a real estate agent?
They come from tropical countries.
I am sorry, but I cannot stay for the rest of class today.
Just black coffee. Do you serve anything else besides drinks, say cake.
Not always. I don't always like the person I'm on the date with.
Thanks. Room 507 is a spacious, nonsmoking room, with a queen bed. Does that meet your expectations?
What about early next week?
Have you decided?
Don't forget the sun block lotion. You don't want a sunburn, do you?
no wonder you like the class so much.
don't forget to keep the seat belt on.
I love you. And I think you ’ re awesome.
Here is your bill.It totals 3250 dollars.
Thank you so much for interviewing me this evening.
Yeah, more and more cars. People should try to take public transportation.
This is Mr. Smith of XYZ Company. When will he be back?
I've gotten six, I think.
And I'm the one who put him there with my football moves.
Oh, that must be because of my four-year-old daughter. She is always flushing things down the toilet. You know how kids are.
The cable will take less time for your account, in the meantime, the regular service charge is also higher than that of the mail one.
Well, I think I'll try the pancakes. How about you?
Look at the ticket booth in the center. There seems to be not as many people as we thought it would be.
I ’ m happy that you find this apartment so appealing.
If that happens, then I'll invite you over and we can drink hot cocoa and watch movies.
The May holiday is coming up soon. Are you planning on going on vacation?
Did he leave when you left?
Granted, It’s cheap, but the place is filthy, the beds are uncomfortable, there ’ s no A / C, the breakfast is pretty skimpy... and the staff couldn ’ t care less about the guests.
You're right. If I were the teacher, I wouldn't have done that.
We found your samples very attractive.We ' re interested in buying your garments if your prices are reasonable
What isn't working on it?
the workshop are so woke.
I liked sales strategies most.
Really? How many collections do you have?
Well, what about $ 8? Take it or leave it.
Son, firecrackers aren ’ t toys.they ’ re dangerous!
And you need to go abroad once in a while. Can you?
Thanks, honey. It's great to be back.
Sure. I often buy things or do business through it without going out to the physical stores.
First I need to get your address. Try to move your arm as little as possible.
Your luggage is overweight. The free allowance for luggage is 20 kilos.
We eat a lot of sweet corn, broccoli and eggplant.
Say hi to your family for me.
That's for the breakfast you ordered from the service.
Hmm. In Carrefour, Clinique will be promoting their visible skin renewed cream.
OK. Do you have any advantages to work in our entry agency?
I didn't really have to figure it out. I just followed the instructions!
I have worked as an executive secretary for 5 years, first for trading companies, and now I am working for a trust company. I interact well with peers, clients, administrators and bosses. I thrive on challenge and work well in high-stress environments.
I changed my open office hours because several of my employees found it difficult to visit me except in the early mornings.
This is interesting, Ms.Parker.
Let ’ s sign the registry. The realtor looks kind of busy right now.
Well, it's straight, but it's upside down I'm afraid.
Yeah, I guess it's the same in the UK, I just never paid much attention. See you later!
OK, I'll get someone to phone you first thing in the morning.
Yes.Thank you very much.
Really? That ’ s a lot of money to pay for one room.
You got it.
How old is your phone?
Where is my contract?
If it were up to me, I ’ d prefer to go to Pizza Hut. The toppings are much tastier.
How do you do, Mr. James? Thank you for asking me to come in.
You have to pay the excess luggage charge, please.
Am I on right bus to Chicago?
Ok, let's hurry.
I can stay a few more minutes.
Sure. How about the tweed?
And what would you like after that?
Would you like anything to drink?
Just there by the door. I need to measure the length of this workbench. We're going to replace it. OK - 3 m 47 cm. Let's round it up to 3 m 50.
How can I help you?
It is a quarter to twelve.
I maintain that the most important thing is having good friends. A person can't live all by himself I think. A friend in need is a friend in deed.The more really close friends I have, the better.
Oh, I'm a tourist. May I go inside and look around?
My favorite is Diablo. It used to be Star Craft, but it is getting a little old.
Er, let me see. Oh, look, you're right here. Pretty close to the Olympic Park.
No, I think I will run things much the same way that Dad did.
What would you like for your main course?
I'm getting pretty bored. We should do something despite the rain.
Must he stay in bed?
Perhaps your employer could supply us with one.
do you think advertising has an influence on the choices you make when you're shopping?
I'd like to make a deposit please, into my granddaughter's account. It's her birthday on Friday.
What's the use of going to a hotel if you don't take home souvenirs?
The Smiths are arriving at our city tomorrow. Can you draw up a schedule for them? If they want to make any changes, minor changes can then be made.
How about this Isawell's flowery perfume?
Forget about school and exams. Come over to my house and have fun. I have some really good DVDs.
You might be right. He does think pretty highly of himself.
I can see a lot of advantage and disadvantage. The problem is that, for me, each advantage has its own disadvantage.
That's cheap.
It is totally $ 20 including the deposit for films.
Ok, we live in the third building on your left. Will we see you around 7 pm?
Well, it won't last long.
That's very convenient.
Yeah, most of the people are from our office.
Do I need to buy anything else?
I changed my diet recently, and I eat a lot healthier now.
I think I'm going to make myself some oatmeal and toast.
Waiter, can you come here for a moment?
We need to talk about the size of the country and its population.
I know some of them are doing that. But this is new to me. I've never made payment in yen before. It is convenient to make payment in pound sterling, but I may have some difficulty in making payment in yen.
May I turn on the radio then?
I also like going to the movies.
Have you checked the connections on your computer?
This next one is from Betty.
I like this one. How much is the rent?
I'm leaving him a message taped to my computer screen.
Holy cow! I never heard of such a thing. How much do they cost?
What are the temperatures in winter? in my city it is about 15 or 20 degrees.
It's almost as if this food has been sitting a little too long. It doesn't seem fresh.
Do you want to go to an exhibition? There is one at the Xinghai Exhibition Hall tomorrow.
did you get to leave early then?
I want to see you right away.
I heard that janet has got a new job. She ’ s working for the united investment group. I hear that they pay very well.
You ’ re right. But smaller political and pressure groups can often influence large political parties. Any member of parliament can propose legislation and parties and pressure groups can raise awareness
OK, but they better tag lightly!
I didn't realize that.
Well, according to your experience, perhaps you could tell me what essential qualities a personnel department office clerk should maintain.
Ok. got it.That ' ll be $ 6.50. Thank you for your order.it will be there in 20 minutes.
Oh dear, is it really my turn? In that case, I'll clean tomorrow.
Not quite the only one. I really wanted that job at the magazine, but I still haven't heard from them.
You could choose another appetizer for half price to share.
Let me try it on, it's too small for me, haven't you got any larger ones?
The courses I completed are marketing, business law, business English, statistics, marketing principles, sales management, distribution theory, economies and psychology.
Actually I look at all of it and let's not forget class participation.
Why not? I've been craving good food for three weeks now. I'm too sick of hamburgers and pizza!
Because the job I am doing in my present company is of no challenge, but I like challenge.Your firm is a young organisation with many innovative ideas. It has been very successful in an expanding market since its establishment 10 years ago. Working for you would be exactly the sort of challenge I am looking for.
Yes, I did. There ’ s an anti-virus program with my email account that scans all attachments, so I ’ m sure I haven ’ t sent anything nasty to anyone.
I'm going to Shanghai early tomorrow morning. So I would like to request an early morning call.
if I had enough money, I'd buy one, but I don't even have enough to buy one of their shuffle spods.
I think that ’ s the reason why Princess Diana ’ s hair style became so popular.
You do realize that all the evidence points to you?
I agree with you. Do you have any questions to ask about this job?
No need. I have only this small handbag with me.
Frank has gone out with Lucy again.
Has the earthquake damaged the bridges too?
That ’ s enough for you to worship the ground she treats on.
Hello. I would like to buy some business cards.
How large is the plant?
No. How about you?
Lately, I've been quite busy.
My poor memory. Thank you very much.
do you have a brochure about the course that I can take home to read?
Thanks for coming! We should meet again sometime soon.
I ’ m not sure what you expect me to do, Michelle. You ’ Ve not been very clear about any of this.
Yeah. I don't agree with them, but I don't have a better choice.
Neither am I. So a small place is ok, but we'll get a bigger one if it's not expensive. Do you mind if it's in a noisy area?
Oh, it's made of wool. I like the striped pattern.
She ’ s sitting under the tree.
What's a good place for sightseeing?
I was really sad too, but at least I can still listen to their Cds.
Pure gold or carats?
Uh, nothing much, just went to bed early. I was still tired from Saturday.
We are interested in placing a large order for your wool carpet.
Why are you so bitter? No one tells worse joke than you.
When should I take this medication?
Let's go to the food stall. There's a good one just around the corner.
I'm sorry, but we usually don't do it. It is our policy.
Hi. You look excited. What's happening?
The girls in this magazine are so slender.
Don't you have any Chinese food?
it ended in a tie.
It's good, try it. What do you think?
Even you can bargain with the owner of one on-line store, although he or she provides ' But It Now ' prices.
If a passenger can't understand what you say, what should you do?
Put all baggage on the conveyor belt. Walk through the detector age one at a time, please.
Let me see. Yes, here you are.
All right. May I have your name?
Well, we are waiting for two friends, so could we just have a look at the menu for a while?
Just a little please.
Sure. I love this place, especially the decoration. So tasteful!
Well, I ’ m going to write a letter of complaint.
no, I prefer to play with people I know.
And how much is the coca cola?
Yeah, I'm afraid so. I really need your help here.
You must have been prepared for a long time. Some statistics in this presentation are not easy to find, right?
ok, I'll try and put you through. Please hold.
It's pretty. Can I try it on?
Mr. Randolph. Okay, one second, sir, and there you go. Your reservation is now cancelled.
Hello, Lincoln Bank. Kristy speaking, how may I help you today?
Here are my coupons. Is that enough?
You said you were only going to window shop!
I do, at a different location, I have a savings account and a CD.
Economy or Business Class?
May I invite you for the first dance?
It’s just a little shorter.
I appreciate your remarks. And we are always happy to do more business.But, you know, if we take on a contract to produce new products, we want to be confident the product is marketable. Because, to start producing new things requires a lot of preparation.It requires a lot of investment for us.
did they mention that in the article?
That's Madame Psychic to you.
I need two wake-up calls, if you don't mind, one at 7 and the other at 7 fifteen.
You're so thoughtful. Wish you a good trip home. And we'll miss you.
Yes, it's not like what the radio said at all.
Do you have your own circle of friends?
I think you must have heard wrong.The truth is we are going to be taken over by Trusten.We are being bought out, and our company will be merging with our largest competitor.It ' s not good news at all...
That's right. I haven't done that yet.
This guy just robbed me right on the street.
Yes, like a dolphin. Am I on the right track?
The more the world becomes open, the more people become international!
What shall I do with the receipt?
That's great news! You look much more relaxed than you did yesterday.
What's your sales record been like there?
That's a good idea, Charlotte.
added to that is the high unemployment rate right now.
There is a new restaurant opening up in town next month.
Are you on the up and up?
Well, no. It just seemed like another bill we ’ d have to pay.
Hello. I want to send the computer to my sister in Shanghai by logistics transport.
Of course. Here you are.
The sooner the better! I can ’ t wait!
I really hate this weather.
They must have some special methods to do this during the process.
I'll schedule you for then.
Mr. : Just like everyone else.
How long have you been living here?
You can't say that! He's a very knowledgeable person.
you're really hot. Let me get you some Tylenol to bring the fever down.
Can you go?
Tell me why you didn ’ t come to see me tonight then.
I asked for leave and was at home when the telephone rang. I picked it up and a girl asked to talk to Mark. She then asked if I was his sister, and I said no, I was his wife. She hung up immediately.
Sauvignon Blanc? What's that?
Our monthly salary can not buy one square meter of the house here.
How much is the video camera?
Well, could you drive me home? I have spare keys there.
No, my father and brother are doing that.
afterwards, we can do the washing up together. Everything will be finished within an hour. Your friend Keith is really funny. I liked his magic tricks.
I have every intention of cleaning my room later.
Hi, Celia! How was your trip to the United States?
I wonder if it keeps good time.
Just take it easy. Come on with me.
A lecture on how to make stir-fried ginger beef, not the boxing you like.
Thank you. Your confirmation number is 611273.
Well there is an important meeting with a new client.
Actually, five and a half. On Saturday, we have classes only in the morning.
She told me she'd be here.
Is flight ZW203 a direct one?
Who was elected?
I know, but sometimes interviewers just want to hear you say it. Then you may be asked for your viewpoint on why you feel you are qualified for the job, give them all your qualifications and how you think they will fit the position you are applying for. Questions like what sort of experience do you have and what are your goals? are closely related to this.
The price varies somewhat according to the size of your order. Would you tell us the quantity you want so that we can work out an offer?
No, make the second one with ham, pineappleand green peppers. Oh, and make it thin crust.
All right, do you want to sign a nine-month or a one-year lease?
Hey. Let's trade places one weekend!
Hah hah! You have to go before me.
I thought you were good at the high jump!
Okay.Thanks for your help.
that ’ s an excellent suggestion. I can easily do it on the computer.
Are they having a sale?
Great, I love hot food too.
It's my pleasure. Actually, it's really hard to say as individual tastes are different. As for myself, I'd like to recommend gin and tonic.
Good evening, Pizza House. This is Marty speaking.May I take your order?
What's your major?
I must go to the greengrocer's. We haven ; t got many tomatoes, but we've got a lot of potatoes. I must go to the butcher's, too. We need some meat. We haven't got any meat at all.
But of course! We have a great exercise facility.
I bet he is. He domed his own life.
How is your job search going, Janet?
Honey, I am sorry that I am too busy most of the time.
McCain won the election.
I'm feeling down.
So do I. Let ’ s go to other areas to see what they have got, shall we?
Hey honey! Where were you?
Yeah. I met with them back in March, remember?
OK. I'll pick you up here tomorrow.
Wow. It is good. Did you make that also?
How was the party yesterday?
I would like to discuss purchasing a home with you.
In fact, could I ask you for the recipe?
Charles? Before I start I was wondering if it was ok if I put a small crescendo in here and then decrescendo back to pianissimo again over here?
I'll give you a speech like that, too.
You know? Go ask for a transfer. They're free.
We have a storage place here, but you have to leave a deposit.
Here ’ s my VISA card.
The accounts department, no problem. I'm just putting you through now.
But he is not someone who can be led by the nose.
Hi, Monica, how is everything going?
What do you think of doctor Thomson?
What a lucky man.
Would you tell me how I send this parcel to shanghai, China? It contains only books.
what's your dreamhole like then?
No. Peel the skin with a sharp knife, and throw out the seed.
How do you like the food sold in this sidewalk snack booth?
So how did you meet Bill?
I bought some advanced medicine. Is there anything you need?
Good morning, sir!
You have to pay a fine.
Can you help me? The program is not responding and I don't know what to do.
Oh, sorry sir. We take no tips here. Thank you all the same.
When shall we go and look?
The school is a little bit too far away. I simply want to take good care of my elderly grandfather.
well, now you don't have to worry about that. This new place sounds really good.
yes, I was just wondering how you and your roommate were planning on coming to my place.
About 15. I've seen him work hard for a lot of good changes.
We remain open from 9am till 8p m.
If I can improve my vertical jump a few more inches, I think beach volleyball might be my ticket.
Sounds persuasive. How much will you charge for it?
All right, Miss. I think we will get there if there are no delays on the way.
Well, the express one, with air-conditioning.
Well, I like others very much, but I really don't think much of this one.
Happy Birthday! This is for you, Kate!
When you pull my tooth will you also have to extract the nerve and the root?
Gas Meter Reader. This is a wonderful job for the right person, regular hours, no night shifts, no supervisor behind you, and good pay.
How smart of you to book the tickets before hand!
Check the mirror. How do you like it?
Now your dream comes true. Do you know the altitude of the mountain?
The second call is now changed to 7 thirty. Is there anything else we can help you with?
Ah, I see. The goods description is totally different from what you are expecting, right?
Well, Mr. Brown, we've settled everything in connection with this transaction except the question of payment in yen. Now can you explain to me how to make payment in yen?
Yes, sir. Please examine it.
Three parties? That's quite a lot. That must have been expensive!
Yes, but do you have a prescription with you?
Excuse me, waiter. Could we change our table for that one? My wife is quite interested in the scenery.
Do you mind if I ask you a question? If It’s too personal you can forget it.
But I don't know what to do.
Hold on, let me put it on the scale. It weighs up to 10kg and that will be 30 Yuan, please.
This musicians thing is so sus.
Mike suggests me to return it.
Your check will be arriving late, but the next one will come right on time.
Anyway, it is worth trying.
Hey Michael. Where are you going?
If I take a short job and then get laid off, will I be starting over trying to get unemployment?
Oh, my God! I feel nothing is going smooth.
Excuse me. May I come in?
If I had chance again, I'd major in English. You're good at language.
Will it take long?
No, thank you. Shall we sign the agreement now?
You need to get on the 261. It goes all the way to Sons.
Job intentions refer to the kind of job you are eager to get, for example, accounting, marketing.
This is a great botanical garden in the city.
How many candidates do you choose for the first round?
It was silly of me to have taken a taxi.
I see. You need the reference numbers? For each cheque?
Here it is. Well, remember to have our cards on to tell every visitor where we come from.
They are all great skiers and very experienced. So I suppose the chance for them to be buried by an avalanche is slim.
Of course. Where are you planning to travel to?
That ’ s all.
A chance? Not just a chance, I'm a hundred percent certain.Everyone says my voice is beautiful.
A lot of stars, including Andy, Justin, Mendy...
Can I take the subway to get there?
you're finally here! What took so long?
My mother-in - law. She retired last year.
For one week.
Oh, that's easy for me. I think it's really a good deal.
We have our daily appetizers listed on the board over there on the wall.
John Sandals. That's S A N D A L S.
Yeah. But I...
Yes, we do. I think we have the same musical tastes.
I would like to buy a new fridge.
As a matter of fact, I am a bit upset. I just came out of a meeting and it didn't go very well.
Next time. You are going to love your part. I've seen the script.
Oh! Thank you very much. I heard that you are currently writing a collection of short stories. What are the stories about?
From the numbers, it seems nearly half of the visitors who stumble onto our page pick up the link not from network browsers or search engines, but from our circular insert. That means our consumers are purposefully and actively seeking information about our products and services through the web format. Based on these findings, I am completely convinced the internet is the marketing power of the future!
Oh wonderful! Have you been there before or was it your first time?
Welcome to Credit Services. How can I help you?
Yeah, I'd have to say it has. But I'm still paying for it, you know.
You can put on your white shoes, it fits every occasion.
All right, ma'am. I'll check and tell them to be quiet.
I want to change my job.
I had a wonderful experience with doctors.
You must have a lot in common and a barrel of fun.
He's much better today.
Yes, I will write that down.
It certainly has been a pleasure seeing you again and renewing old memories.
But it was not at all so fine yesterday.
Ye, I hope so.well.Take it easy.
What ’ s your rule about pets?
I am thinking of looking at three houses, and it will take about two hours.
No wonder you look so upset. Have you called the police?
I see. Well, what do you recommend then?
it's a pun. They use the fish hook to make you think about how you can get hooked on smoking.
Do you really think so? I don't. It will just make us fat and act silly. Remember last time?
That right. One of my sisters is a doctor and the other one teaches at a university.
I see. Would you like me to reschedule you for another night?
when was the last time you have track up?
I'm sick. I think I've got the flu.
True. How much did you pay?
Well, is there any other hotel nearby?
I don ’ t have a car.
could I have a transfer, please?
It's OK. I'll leave the pamphlet here. If you need more information, you can call me any time.
Be patient. Good food never comes fast.
Well. What ’ s the climate like in your country?
Did you tell him?
OK.sir. We will bring it to you as soon as possible.
It's something relative hackers. I often hear people talking about them, but I don't know much about them.
Oh, good. You're an excellent student. I'd be very willing to help you with that.
Yes, I am. My wife and I understand each other.
I ’ m well. And you?
Have you any aches and pains?
It's on the second floor. Have you got your records?
Three years. They've been dating since freshman year. They're even talking about marriage.
You are pulling my legs!
It’s nice meeting you.
Oh, you must be very happy. How many people are there in your family?
Yeah, but we still need RIB 500,000. Maybe we can use some of our savings to pay part of it.
I'd like to buy a tie to match this suit.
Can I smell it?
I had a great time. It ’ ll be good to see them again.
Yeah, I come here every now and then.
what's wrong with it?
it's a lovely day, isn't it?
He did and it's his entire fault.
Hi, do you know a place that sells cheap cashmere sweaters?
What ’ s your major?
Sound great. Let's go!
I had a wonderful experience with my new phone.
You might feel a little dizzy at first, but it should pass.
I'm really pleased with it.Thanks.
It is because Montreal is a bilingual city.
I'd like to get some details about a Personal Housing Loan, please.
Excuse me, but I'm looking for a gift for my friend.
What's the special today?
I want to show my gratitude for your hospitality. And I believe me trip here will be meaningful and our cooperation will go deeper and stabler in near future. Through the communication, we can know more about each other. Thank you so much for your consideration.
Sorry, sir. The prices here are all fixed.
Beer, please. Oh, there are so many dishes.
Air mail or surface mail?
That makes sense. I think I'll do that. Thanks for all the help.
Working under pressure is exciting and challenging. I don ’ t mind working under pressure. I work well under that circumstance. People can, I can.
There are many amazing dishes to choose from. We can have some chicken tikka masala which is an amazing curry. It ' s a bit spicy, but I think you can handle it.
In my country, there ’ s a time limit on the advertisements that can be shown. I think It’s about six minutes per hour.
They use said it
There is no way that I can fall asleep right now.
Yes, that's right. Extension 162.
Well. We went bungee jumping when we were in Malaysia.
So I've heard. That's why I'm having such a great time.
Are you in favor of having a trip during the spring break?
Where's the hotel?
She likes to complain about her macho husband and her “ bambinos ”, but she loves them all dearly.
Let me just park my car in a better position. Alright, miss. Where ’ s the luggage?
And you think about her all the time?
Was he out with the guys from the bank?
Hi, Nicole. Did you have a good weekend?
He is responsible to the board of directors for everything that happens in the company. He or she must give leadership to all company officers, as CEO is also responsible for providing the guidance of philosophy of the company, and acting as official representative, or face of the company.
John, you have done a good job. Our new series computer is appreciated by the guests. They intend to sign contracts with our company. You really did a good job.
Yes, something just opened up.
I ’ m voting for the next President.
Yes, I think I speak English quite fluently. I got a high score on TOEFL. I majored in English in college.
She is the mature, stable, feminine type. I hope one day I can marry her.
Do you have any habits such as smoking?
That will be very nice. You're too kind.
So how do you intend to do that?
If it was sunning all year round there would be drought. You probably would not like it either.
That might be going overboard a bit. How about just that scarf with a bracelet?
Not at all.This dress certainly shows your good taste.
Do you have any pills for airsickness?
Look at this numbers and see for yourself. Read'sm and weep.
Good idea! I finish work at five. Why don ’ t we meet at six?
These red ones? I'm not sure.
$ 88 for a single ticket.
This hotel has no full-size pool, but we do have swim stations in our gym.
We need a medium-sized house with at least 3 bedrooms and 2 bathrooms.
Why do they go there?
We'll get there around 7:45 in the morning.
I ’ Ve come to hear about your offer for bristles.
Oh, I see. What makes you think that?
It won't start.
Have you had any previous experience?
OK, well, I'm going to Europe. I guess 1,000 USD will be sufficient for now.
I ’ d love to have my own farm.
Well, I have no regrets!
Yes, I think so. It doesn ’ t close until 5 o ’ clock. You still have plenty of time.
Oooo. This sounds serious.
Yes, I did. I lost it. It disappeared.
What do you want to do tomorrow night?
That is your excuse.
I ’ m not sure about that. We still have many wars in the world. I think that the idea behind the Olympics is a good one, but the reality is that during the Olympics countries compete. There ’ s no real spirit of cooperation and people are usually not very friendly to each other.
Hi, Malia! What a nice home!
Not at all. Take a seat. Now, what can I do for you?
Now let me tell you your definite duties in this office and this is your desk. Please sit down.
I've tried hundreds of times, but I just can't seem to kick the habit.
I live at No. 50 Xingu Street.
Thank you. How much is this kind of chocolate?
Hi Mike, how are you doing?
oh, really? so you just took home a stray cat?
OK, see you then.
I bought them to go with a blouse of mine. But they don't really match.
You have to finish your dinner before you leave the table.
OK, It's here, one of the best makes in China.
May I inquire about the departure time?
Is it free of charge?
Yes. I also have a Loan Certificate.
Do you know how much they are paying her?
That's too bad. Why don't you try using lures instead?
I sometimes use traveller ’ s cheques, but sometimes I travel to countries where they are hard to exchange for cash.
I hope it stays like this.
Cash. Oh, I almost forgot. I need a lid, too.
Don't worry. Anyway, you are better than me.
Yes, the teacher says recitation is real good.
You have been too tired recently, darling. That's why I didn't wake you up this morning. After breakfast, you can go to sleep again.
Right. That ’ s why doctor say AIDS prevention means cleanness.
not really, but landlords put up notices to attract students and they often have low rent.
They don ’ t now, but most of them did originally. There ’ s picture of the pentagon in the United States. It’s very distinctive with its five sides.
How much are the parking tickets?
In about 2 hours.
Oh, did you know Hugh Young? He was a music student.
I ’ m from Living, Yunnan Province.
Really? Oh, this one. I like the cloisonn vase.
That's fine. I'm looking forward to it.
Yes, here it is.
Well done, Fred. Do you know something useful for our promotion for our I-series?
Oh, I'm sorry, but there are a couple of different places I will travel to within the United States, so I wasn't sure what to put.
What are your salary expectations now?
no, there's no double six at the of the number. It's just zero, double seven, eight, seven, three, six, seven, six, double eight.
Don't bother.
That ’ s both fortunate and unfortunate. It’s the United Nations in my class! We have people from all over the world! There are three Germans, a Pole, a Scottish, two French, an American, a Brazilian, a Chilean, a New Zealander, though he prefers to call himself a Kiwi. Who else do we have? Oh, we also have a Moroccan, a Togolese, a Pakistani, and two Indonesians!
Why not now? I'm hungry.
There's one at 19 and the next is at 19 forty.
Yes. It’s easy and convenient to use a computer. But it takes a long time to really master it.
I need to hire you.
I'm concerned about the possible jolting, squeezing and collision that may take place when these cases are moved about.
Do they have ice cream bars. frozen yogurt or frozen chocolate mousse?
Fine, thank you.How are you doing this morning?
my father has already paid for that in advance. Here are the receipts.
Great! I ’ ll take it.
No, Lucy. Don't get me wrong. I mean school will be open on Sept. 2nd, and I will have a very tight schedule by then.
What ’ s the rush? You ’ re not leaving for another week.
It's always warm in September and October. It's often cold in November and it rains sometimes.
Yes. I'd like to look at lipstick and eye shadow.
I can ’ t believe it. I guess I ’ ll be here until 10 again tonight.
have you ever seen a live game?
I feel he is as cold as charity to me.
This is where we sing? These booths are so comfortable I think could fall asleep!
Why are we watching it anyway?
I heard you are busy with your new house now?
How many nights will you be staying?
Bob, I'm really upset with you.
Yes, can you please let him know I called and ask him to call me back as soon as he can? My name's Mary, and I'm calling from Happy Travel. My number is 123 456 789.
It does not work very well.
And the most active older people seem to enjoy some kind of physical exercise. My father is over 60 years old, and he lifts weights every day.
I can understand the problem with that.
Sorry, my taste in music doesn't go back any further than the 1960 ' s. Music written before then is just history to me.
So, how'd everyone do?
OK. Please fill in the form first.
In that case, we'd like you to make some changes in the labeling.
that ’ s why ambition need to be realistic. You can ’ t achieve something that ’ s totally unrealistic.
That ’ ll be all.
How would you like your Bourbon, straight or on the rock?
You made a perfect choice, Jack.
That does sound good. I'm already an account holder, have been for many years. And I already have your existing card.
It's so small. The fact that there is public interest, doesn't say much for us as the public.
no thanks. Western women usually try to make their skin darker, no lighter.
Then our entire job could be done by telecommuting.
Gorgeous! What should I bring on that day?
Just dial 0, wait for the dial tone, and then dial the phone number you want to call. Or we can place a call for you, if you want.
I ’ d like to a glass of tomato juice please.
Thank you. Now turn in your application at Window B.
I was fast asleep, and didn't hear a thing.
Well, on Saturday I cleaned the house and played tennis. Then on Sunday I hiked in the country.
Excuse me, I ’ d like to apply for a library card.
There's no limit to how often you can use your bus pass.
I wish I could find one just like it.
it's a quiet beach just about an hour outside of the city.
I want to reserve rooms for my colleagues.
Yes. I heard there's a lager motor company nearby which is open to the public every weekend. We can go to see how a car is manufactured and learn more about the automobile industry.
Here. Keep the change.
We jumped off a bridge and fell 500 feet before the bungee cord caught us.
I think I'm making good progress.
Don't you remember? Today is March 8th. It's Women's Day.
I'll have the lamb chops, well-done, please.
How about ‘ Run of the Mill? ’
Yes. He is an old man with a great sense of humour. Not only can he play the piano, he also draws pictures very well.
A fried crisp chicken and an eggplant with chili sauce.
Not as far as I know. We have so many advertisements. the interruptions are unbearable sometimes! That ’ s one reason that many people prefer satellite or cable Tv, where you pay a fixed amount each month.
There are a plenty of signs such as Watch for children!
What happened? Why didn't he win?
Can I get a burger and a large fries?
It sure is hot today.
Did you get any honors and awards at college?
What are you planning to do today?
Thank you for agreeing to come in and meet with us today.
What are your salary expectations?
All right. All done.
Well, I mean.We always do the same thing.There ' s no variety in our lives.
Yes, I've got a job, a waiter's job in a restaurant.
Well, it's eaten my card! It won't give it back!
Would you like to swim in the swimming pool or at the beach?
Yes, please. How much is it?
Alright, Ma'am. What items would you like to order today?
I am glad you let me know that you will be missing class. Get well!
I read everything I can get my hands on but I like love stories best. What do you think about the love stories?
Did you panic at the time?
Operator, can you give me any information on the call I just received?
Yes, follow me. Here it is.
What was the problem?
Do you have cruise tours?
Really? I'm in a hurry.All right.
Nothing that I can think of right now. If something comes up, though, I'll call you.
Me, too. Do you want to go out to celebrate my good news?
do you think there's anything we can do to reverse the damage that's been done already?
It tastes great.
OK, Mr. Coffee Connoisseur, so what's the next step in the coffee-making process?
I come to try my new suit. Here's the receipt.
I'm sorry to hear that. What's the matter?
What does your company do exactly?
You remember me! Yes, I'm with Li Wang Enterprises ; I'm the Accountant Peters.
It seems that Harvard was predestined to be influenced by religion.
While you are thinking about what you might like to order for dinner, would you like to order your drinks?
Its 3D animation is attractive and its colorful scenes are also unforgettable.
I see. Overdoing it will do more harm than good.
Yeah, we spent the whole morning under the tall trees. We had our picnic there, too.
Do you know how to drive?
Have you seen that house?
How much did she ask for?
Yes. After that you should emphasize your skills, educational background and related experience.
He looked his age.
Do you want to sign for a Korea language class?
Let ’ s go to the seashore on Saturday.
Honey, please. You're the only woman for me, forever. I swear it.
Good gracious! You certainly are lucky. How are you going there?
I love ice cream.
OK. So, what can you recommend?
Anyway, that is not what I meant by beautiful.
Do you ever deliver prescriptions by mail?
How about insurance and full health insurance?
Well, thank you for coming.
It is so hard to deal with.
Where did you begin your journey?
But that game he dunked over me for 13 times.
A barrel of fun, of course. He often says that I'm a date bait.
She's kind of short.
Actually, I don't think I can eat another bite!
What kind of exercise do you think I do? I just go to dance everyday after work. I ’ m taking an amateur dance class. I dance two hours everyday.
Does that mean I won't have to pay for it?
Then what is your opinion?
From one to two.
Which team won?
You are right, look at the crowd. Do you think we will be able to get tickets?
You need six hours.
I look at myself in the mirror. Sometimes, It’s not a pleasant sight, especially if I have been out late the late before.
I miss my parents.
It seems a good way.
I would recommend the mall, it's about 20 minutes, drive to the south in a taxi. It has a wide range of shops and restaurants.
You've got a point there. It is a custom and good manners to serve tea to a guest who comes to pay a visit. There is no need to ask if he needs it or not, or if he wants something else. It might be an insult to the guest if he is left sitting there without being served tea.
I ’ ll be right over!
Hmm... you look too dressed up. How about this purple top and these jeans?
That's a great relief. I was worried about him.
Is this your umbrella, miss?
Well, let me see. I'd like to go to the Great Wall, the Summer Palace, the Forbidden City and the Temple of Heaven.
Do you know what kind of internet you would like to get?
Yes. There are selected itineraries for rich and high-tasted people, common routine for people who are on trade observation tour, and excursion routine for people who have limited time for sightseeing.
OK. I just want to read the comics.
I want that.
It looks delicious. I will order it.
See you on Moday.Have a great weekend.
I feel sorry for her.
I heard that your previous manager was very capable, he is a good manger.
You shouldn't grab someone else's shirt. That's a foul.
Oh, thank you. Your skirt looks beautiful, too.
I have redecorated my bedroom. I decide to repaint the walls and change the pictures. I also bought a new pair of curtains. What do you think of it?
Oh, how was it?
If you're sure you're not in a hurry, I can use a little help.
Excuse me, sir.
Hah, as the sales department director, you are the best.
No problem, sir. But it will cost you extra.
Of course. I always keep what I catch.
Let's not exchange any gifts at all.
Then why couldn't I get strike on the first ball?
How much is the cancellation fee?
I swear that I didn't mean to run it.
Can you do something about it?
Let's see... I'm afraid the 16th is fully booked. But I have seats for the 17th.
Oh, really? That's nice.
Yea, I never see theaters turn people away for their age anymore either.
How is everything going with your girlfriend?
The wonderful passing Melaena did.
There's nothing else to it.
You said she was strict. Did she have a lot of rules?
That ’ s fantastic. I ’ m going to go try that out in my room now. good night!
I think I've looked everywhere, but I haven't seen a swimming pool here.
What is the rate, please?
I've always admired musicians.
Have you been having these headaches for a long time?
They're imported from New Zealand. Four for 50NT. Nine for a hundred.
The bonus season is coming. How much of a bonus can I expect?
No, thank you. That will be all for now.
Have you been having any problems lately?
Thomas, could you do me a favor?
Yes, my name is Ms Jane Reeve, R-E-E-V-E.
Here's your receipt. Have a nice day.
I need to set up an appointment to get my hair fixed.
I'll be honest with you, our budgeted cost can't exceed more than $ 150 per unit.That is our bottom line. If you can meet that price, you've got the deal.Otherwise...
How many pieces of baggage have you got?
It will be cash today.
Oh! Thank you! It's very kind of you.
Don ’ t worry about it. I ’ ll show you how. It’s a piece of cake.
Yes, I think you ’ re right!
Sure, come with me. Hello, Michael, this is Steven. He will be part of your team.
Of course it does. It ' s like a modern tale of Romeo and Juliet. You can see a couple who are in love but can ' t be together because they are so different. And in the fact that immortality and super human strengthen this really sexy and there you have it! Plus the cast is hip, young people that make the movie even more enticing.
Hi, Ross. Glad to see you, too.
great minds think alike. My brother and I have been thinking about going to Tibet for quite a long time. Do you have anything on your schedule?
That will be fine. What I have to show you will only take a few minutes of your time.
Maybe we should turn on the news in case it's supposed to get worse.
We could try it for the first few weeks and see if she likes it.
Today more and more people advocate lifelong learning. But people have different views about lifelong learning. How do you understand lifelong learning?
yeah, as long as I have a computer and internet access, I can start working. I recently enjoy working in my own place and at my own pace.
That works for me. We can check out the kitchen next.
I will write you in on that doctor ’ s schedule. See you then.
It was nice to meet you, too. And thanks for coming in today.
12 hours, including 5 hours overtime.
OK. Where do you want me to sign?
I am just casting pearls before swine.
Poor Ben, your wife is too mean to you. She gives you so little money every time when you are out.
Be careful. The floor is wet.
Where are you going now?
I know that. I have seen the film as the same title. Andrews gives a performance to be remembered for a lifetime from Maria to a cheerful governess.
Maybe you would like a heavy wool scarves. How about this one?
Well, Mr.Li has very good taste in wine, and Galp is one of the biggest clients. I suggest you take them to a decent French restaurant. Make sure you make a very good impression.
Did you go to the Summer Mountain Resort?
Yes, please. I'm hoping to get a mortgage from you and was wondering about your interest rates.
All right. Have a good night.
Before we start, let's have a moment of silence for our fallen men.
How do you feel about it?
Hurry up. Time is running out.
Are you ready to move?
Oh you ’ re so kind!
What would you suggest to see?
should I take my shoes off?
I'm headed to the 18th floor, the top floor.
Please take me to this address.
I don't like coffee in this cafe.
Mom, this is your third bowl of rice!
Would you like tea or coffee?
Oh, can I?
It would probably be very expensive.
Sure. I ’ d love to join you. Can we stop by the computer store? I just want to see if they have something.
I'm not sure I understand.
Good morning, Helen.
Well, it's the classic love story between two people from conflicting backgrounds. But besides a beautiful story, the cinematography is great. There is some really dramatic footage. It's really quite a visual feast. And the soundtrack is moving.
Here you are. Keep the change.
Don ’ t cherish your words, dear.
Use this one.
No, that's okay, I already have a coke.Why don't you have a seat, you look like you've been on your feet all day.
Sure. Here is the code number, with information on how to use it.
Hi, dear, I've got your voice at last.
Yes, I will bring my plans with me to the meeting.
It’s awful, isn ’ t it?
I think I'm in love.
I was told my friend Joe was speaking ill of me. That's a real let-down.
Let's go for a drink after work.
But the importance of the export research is often neglected by the managers.
Good. Listen. I'm phoning because I want to invite you to a party. At our Newhouse. And..
My parents gave them to us as a house warming gift.
Do you want the whole minibar, or just certain items?
I bet that was interesting. What did you do there?
Have you ever experiences a flood?
I have had a low fever these days.
Would you like me to give you a lift?
What's today's special?
The company regulates that men should wear a suit and tie in business meeting. Company policy is not negotiable.
What kind of work?
Do you think I could borrow the car? I ’ m going to concert tonight.
Great. How would you like to pay for it?
How have you been?
If you open a fixed account, the interest rate is higher.
If you want. Didn't you buy her a small vase already?
I am very grateful. How much will it be?
Yes. Roasted Crispy Chicken and Spicy Beef are our specialties.
All right, Madam. I'll have a tow truck there within 30 minutes.
How do you usually part your hair?
You ’ re welcome. I enjoyed helping you.
Ok then, your room is 502 on the fifth floor. Breakfast is served between 6.30 am and 9am. Enjoy your stay.
Wow! It's big! What could it be?
In Camden Town.
Hello, Steven. Annie said that you and Julia have had a quarrel, haven ’ t you?
Pay it off, and they'll clear your record.
What is your name, please?
that's a bit high for lasagne. I'll just set it at 180 degree and we can take it from there.
All right. Come with me, please. Here is your seat, ma'am. Would you like to order now?
Apology is accepted. Try to do better next time.
Yes, besides that, we also provide our customers with goggles, swimming suit and something like that.
That ’ s exactly what I am going to do! I ’ Ve decided to create my own company! I ’ m going to write up a business plan, get some investors and start working for myself!
I need an appointment on Tuesday.
Yeah? What does he want?
Well, you can have it for eleven hundred — as a friend.
Listen, it's almost dinnertime.There are lots of restaurant around here.What do you want to try? Italian? Greek? Japanese? Thai?
Will you be driving a motorcycle or a car?
Of course. But today I feel like seeing the White House.We should see it first, because it's the most famous historical building here.
Your daughter is a wonderful student.
Sir, may I please see your license and registration? Do you know how fast you were going?
Why wouldn ’ t you tell me over the phone?
Yeah. I'll miss all of you, too. But I'll keep in touch.
I know what you mean.
You see, that ’ s what I ’ m talking about, I can ’ t stand your sarcastic jokes anymore
"ok. It says, "" Dear Jessica. It was so good to receive you letter. I sounds like you and Riley are settling into your new home with ease... """
Stephanie is 18 and Jack is 24.
Yes. In fact, the recommendation letter written by the university is an indirect self-recommendation. In the long period of cooperation, the university has established good relationship with the companies or organizations, they trust each other well. If your university recommends you, you can be approved more easily.
Why do all girls appear feminine after sophomore year?
So you've been attending night classes for a while now. Do you feel it's helping you?
I ’ m just looking for a nice pillow on Ebay.
I'm sorry to hear that. Why do you think so?
Sure, let's just be friends.
I'm starving. Let's go grab a bite.
Does the tour have a Chinese-speaking guide?
Where shall we go next?
OK... Do I need to put on my sister's name for the receiver?
Good, I can still attend the Olympic Games.
So how far is the museum, dad?
One minor problem, sir. Our prices are now slightly higher. Is that acceptable, sir?
I don't think the teacher had a right to say that. The teacher was wrong to have accused her in front of the whole class.
I know about this fact.American children are more independent. They do more for themselves.But I am from Taiwan. In Taiwan, children must study very hard.So the mother does everything for the kids.The mother wants her kids to get very good grades at school.So I've never washed clothes before. You shouldn't laugh at me for it.
No, honey, the balcony is full of boxes and things. I'm sorry.
I ’ ll work here as long as you expect me to.
It's down in the lobby. Turn left at exit B.
Why? I have stayed for 3 nights.
why don ’ t you use a different font the headings? They ’ ll be more distinct.
I didn't see you at Mr. Johnson's class today.
Let me take your blood pressure. You look anemic.
First day is often exciting, isn't it? Here, let me show you to your desk. You can have this computer and telephone and share the copy machine with us in the office. How do you like it?
I usually make a Caesar salad.
Yes, I think I should have jumped in any case.
There ’ re some problems in my apartment. First, the faucet in the bathtub drips constantly.
It is 15 minutes ’ drive.
Isn't that a good thing? Having fewer bosses means having less stress, don't you think?
yes. That ’ s why I listen to it in the evenings. I usually play it as background music while I ’ m cooking or doing other housework.
Do you know in which area?
I'm here for a facial. I made an appointment over the phone for 3:30 today.
Oh. What good is that? I thought it gave you free money.
I trust you. We'll be happy.
oh, don't mention it. It was terrible.
Don't you have your own parking spot?
Do you know how late it is?
Sorry. I'm afraid we can't. But you may order something else instead.
Diana, in your opinion, which is more important, IQ or EQ?
Diane Grant? I haven't seen you for ages!
Whatever. I wish people would just leave me alone!
Mr. Chandler, this way please. I will show you a five-minute multivision about the history of our company.
Absolutely. I myself sometimes believe that healthy eating is just about feeling great. As long as I have enough energy, it's fine.
You are late. What ’ s the deal?
You've come to the right store. We've got a beautiful and wide selection of earrings for you to choose from.
See you around!
( At the MET station ) Hurry up! We are running late for school.
That makes sense. I'm going to try that.
Well, he isn't a lawyer, so I don't think he needs to have a briefcase like that.
Yes, I do. Everyone ’ s really friendly. Sometimes, I wish I worked outdoors more, especially during the summer.
Why? That ’ s good news, but no one knows it?
I did that.
It's in International Trade Zone. It's only ten minutes ' walk from the nearest subway station.
Is it anything like American football?
Good, which job is that? We advertised several openings.
I'm calling to see if I can request a specific table.
Can you shorten this pipe for me? It's too long.
Please to meet you Mrs Chen. My name is Joy. Welcome to the hotel. Here is the keys, registration slips and breakfast description. Breakfast will be served from seven tomorrow morning. Is there any change of your schedule?
Having a regular study routine and following it is very important, right?
Why are you willing to work for our company?
He nursed a viper in his bosom. His best friend Tony foamed him in. Tony first seduced his wife and then trapped him.
Sorry, I really can't do that. There's little time left for us.
This is very beautiful. Though I have to confess, I don ’ t know the first thing about farming!
The pain is killing me.
The workshop was only one afternoon long, do you really think you can learn that much in only a couple of hours?
He got the money and tried to leave.
I only attend class part-time in the evenings.
It's located in the suburbs? Well even though that sounds like a steal, I really want something downtown.
oh, sure. In British, students don ’ t have to take the foundation course.
The large one.
Here is your key. Your room is 379.You can find the elevators just around that corner there, down the hall.Enjoy your stay, Ma'am.
The next cockroach I see will be number ten.
thank you very much. My name is Ashlan. It's nice to meet you.
I believe that you can make your dream come true.
Be brave, young man. Only girls cry when given an injection.
Why, Jerry? Your words just came out of the blue.
Thank you, sir. Could you sign the voucher here, please?
Yes. We are a foreign-invested company and there are many chances to go abroad.
How did you finally do it?
I've got white wine, red wine, gin and tonics, ginger ale, lemonade, orange juice, and sprite.
See this one that looks like a tower? It’s called the rook. The one with the tall hat is called the bishop. See this little horsey? This is called the knight, It’s a very important piece so It’s best to not let your opponent capture it.
the concert are so woke.
I'm proud of you for standing by her. I think you've helped make a big difference in her life.
It was a hard day. Can you just do this for me tonight?
Good morning. Mrs.Smith.
I know. But I just can't stand her butting in when I was trying to emphasize a point.
What's the weather forecast for today?
Then I advise you to buy the LAY cleansing milk.
I'll make a report for you and please claim this to the insurance company with this report.
every night my roommates watch the Korean soap operas till mid-night. I am not a big fan of Korean shows and I don't know how to tell them to stop without hurting their feelings.
the trainer tells me, besides regular sports activities, I should also have a healthy and balanced diet.
Wow, Good for you.It sounds like a lot of work. I'm proud of you! Is this the right building?
Yes, I'll work on it.
There aren't enough buses in this city, are there?
An idea about killing time on a train?
Oh, I'm very lucky that my wife let me take a heavy overcoat.
What ’ s on TV tonight?
Whatever the result is, you should keep your good demeanor.
I'm a flight attendant and I'm here on vacation.
Oh thanks for inviting me. I'd love to come.
I work for an Internet company.
If you buy a pre-paid phone card worth 100 yuan today, you will get 50 yuan for free.
What are you collecting donations for?
Of course. Please take it easy.
Oh, that's a nice one of all of you together. Do you have the negative? May I have a copy?
That's a problem. He has sort of Dutch courage and that will egg him on in doing anything.
I didn't know you have student tickets so I left them in my bag.
Thank you. You are cooking up a storm.
Thanks. I am all right. It's just my nose. It must be an allergy. Do you have any aspirin? I have a terrible headache.
Yes, I live in that house with my parents and my sister.
What do you want to speak to me about?
No. Um, do you carry any padded coat?
Are you an outgoing person, or more reserved?
May I take your order?
Certainly, sir. How much rent did you want to pay?
Are you ready for your big interview tomorrow?
You mean there is really not that much of a difference.
The car park in this community is over crowded, isn't it?
I've got a temperature and my stomach hurts.
Yes, PLS. I also need you to check the oil and the radiator.
Welcome to our hotel's indoor swimming pool. What can I do for you?
Several things, for example, Very coins, stamps, stones and so on.
Yes, quite a bit. How about a game sometime?
I saw on TV that there is an entertainment item, bungee in Beijing Longtanhu Park. Except that the height is not exiting enough.
What did I mess up on?
You should very qualified.
That is a deadly risky business. He should have it coming on him.
Oh, we had a birthday party for David last night. As a matter of fact I woke up with a terrible hangover.
English is my favorite.
20 yuan for a skirt.
Sounds perfect. I can't wait!
Yes, I like the old style dance, such as waltz 、 rumba and so on. They are quite graceful.
The deposit rate is 0.8 % every month.
Which is more expensive?
What magazine do you want to subscribe for?
Yes. You really deserved this.
And I also want to get scholarships to help me pay for the tuition. I want to get the burden off my family.
I think it should be casual.
Yes. I'd like to try Chinese food. But I don't know anything about it.
I'm qualified for this position. And I've heard a lot of good things about your company.
How much did you bid?
Oh, are you an English student? Or you just study English for interest's sake?
Yes, according to the agenda, there will be a seminar on these issues at the very beginning of the training course.
You are always happy and able to achieve high scores at school.
Maybe some other time.
We need to redo the curtains and paint all the walls and ceilings.
He ’ s just got no idea of how good you are.
What do you normally eat?
Hello. miss. I am wondering if there is a meal served on this flight.
I'm afraid that's too much for us.
That bad egg, who took the low road since he was a boy.
The owners have counter-offered three hundred and thirty-five thousand dollars.
I stood behind the register and took pizza orders.
Well, how do you like this one? You will stay there for 17 days.
Great. Well, we ’ ll have to think about it, but the place looks great.
There's no one moderating it. Anyone around the world can put information onto the net for anyone else to see. The information on the internet is mostly unsubstantiated and you can never know who has written it, or why. A lot of people get conned online.
I see! Do you want to ask her out?
At 2 o'clock, I switched to the Channel 6, and watched a terrific movie without commercials.
Though he's not the one who can get the highest score, yet, on the whole, he is comparable to the best.
I think that those are some really nice shoes. What kind are they?
I need some flowers for my wife. It's her birthday.
All I want is the same thing on this card.
Then shall we keep pure friendship?
I like baseball the best.
I don ’ t understand what the big deal is.
Good. Sorry to have troubled you so much, Miss.
The leopard print sounds fabulous. OK, I'll take it.
Do you think you can speak English quite fluently? Tell me about your English education.
I'm engaged in accounting.
Hey! Why don't I have any presents!
Although I could not say that everything is perfect there, I still very much appreciate what the company has given me, especial many chances.
What about you, Emily? Have you dated anyone recently?
that sounds good. I'm going to start with an Italian tiramisu.
I'll just take a cheesecake.
Be sure. I'll make a note of that. Everything will be taken care of. And if there is anything more you need, please let us know.
I have been working as a paralegal for the last 10 months through an agency that specializes in the legal field. My experience has been supporting attorneys in the field of labor law, where I have been able to apply my paralegal education. I was commended on my ability to take information and break it down into usable facts. I really love research and analyzing facts. My major in college was English, and as a result, my writing skills are my major strength. I am looking for a position where my research and writing skills can be used.
yeah, I quit my job, and started working from home. Recently I've got a project to deal with and don't have much time to work out.
Are you going to get married in the church?
I'm reading a novel, The mill on the floss, written by the famous novelist gorge alias.
I like sports very much.Besides that, I also like working on a computer in my spare time.
I ’ m forming a music band.
Can you please speed up? I am catching the train.
He seems sincere, and trustworthy.
really? Is he married?
My mother taught me some tricks of the trade. I've always loved jewelry.
I want to check this magazine out.
How about drink?
What's the quickest way to get there?
No, double nine zero two.
I think I am extroverted.
Not yet, but I have to soon. He's eating me out of house and home. I caught him reading the fridge again last night
You can do that, too. Both methods have a healing effect.
Yes, it's just a couple of screws.
The wagon with the water, of course.
Well, It’s hard to say. I coughed a lot in the evening.
No, thanks. I did not notice it has been dark outside. I think it is time to dinner.
That's because you are always fixing your eyes on the bald.
Could you please try?
I see, and what about the keyboard?
Oops! It's the landlord. I guess the tables have turned now. We're the noisy neighbors. Turn it down!
Blow my nose?
it sounds like you just need to be more careful.
Gucci, I have an idea. Do you want to see this movie together?
OK, we've finished. Can you get your father and brother?
Tom and Helen got married at last.
Are you ready to welcome him?
How about this brown one?
It was a pleasure. Come back anytime.
But the direction book says I will get one-year warranty.
Oh, it seems there is nothing that evening.
well. I ’ m sure the doctor will be able to prescribe something to make you well again. Dr. Jameson is very good.
This is my first time washing clothes here.
I was thinking that I would like to see “ The Secret Life of Bees. ”
Rally?... barman! ... a large coke with ice and lemon, please... thanks. Here ’ s the money.
Once you arrive at the American airport, please call me.
Yes. I am going for a hike around the Qinghai Lake.
My cousin Monk. Have you seen her lately?
You must be new.
Sorry to hear that! But I would definitely recommend this place!
how many more games are left this season?
These guys are professional. I think they can have it done tomorrow. Let's ask.
Yes, of course. I'll call my home office tonight and let them know about it. When do we meet again?
Just save the receipt and we will gladly return or exchange them for you.
I want to find information on World War Two.
What's the purpose for this check? Would you like to know its repayment capacity?
Yeah! Do all these people work in the company? Everyone and their dog is here!
I want to change to next Tuesday.
Oh, so many kinds of winter hats.
That ’ s very interesting. Tell me what you did exactly.
I've got all the cords plugged in, but it appears that I'm offline.
You'll be able to take the test again in a couple weeks.
Yes, very interesting flavors... Slightly spicy, very unique, that ’ s for sure. Exactly what ARE the ingredients?
Can we get any more help at the International Center?
Yes, I know, sir. I'm sorry.
That's $ 50 for a single night.
About fifteen hours.
You come back here with me tomorrow, and it's my treat!
Certainly, sir. Just tell me your account number please.
In that case, I won ’ t keep you any longer. Drop in anytime.
It's not what it appears. I actually tried harder in the 101 class. If I put as much effort into the 201 class, I would have received the same grade.
You went out and bought khakis, too!
A set of ancient china. It is really invaluable.
May I call you at your home about our final decision?
What section does it have?
Thanks. I finally got rid of that old Nissan that got me through college.
Nice to meet you too.Melinda.
Kata! You've got a beautiful singing voice. You hit the high notes perfectly.
That sounds crazy. They can't just change their mind about things like that.
I wouldn't dare go bungee jumping.
When you buy a Model T, you can't expect a warranty.
Don't worry about your flu. You will be OK soon.
Great, Is it convenient if i visit you this weekend?
How do you want your eggs, Mary? Cindy likes hers scrambled.
Yeah, how about your maths teacher?
Oh, that's OK. Let's just meet at the theater before the show, around 7:30.
Oh shame! I have a class tomorrow.
Of course. C, Y, G, N, E, T.
Oh, congratulations! Sounds like you ’ Ve found your soul mate.
My ex-girlfriend's here.If she sees me, my goose is cooked.
We'd like to hear your account of the events of last night.
It's 20 degrees below zero now. It was even colder this morning.
Sure, we have both skirts and slacks that will go well with the sweater. I especially like this flowery skirt. It's very much in style this year.
It could. Modern humans actually have more flight or fight responses than our ancestors did. They just had a couple of close calls every day, but today, we have dozens or even hundreds!
Yes, thanks.Before I start, I'd like to thank Professor Smith for all his help in giving me unlimited access to his research materials.
And Roman really loves life. He knows how to enjoy himself.
I want to come in on Wednesday.
That's terrible.
Then, you'd better go to the Medical Department. But first, you should fill in the registration card and the registration fee is one Yuan.
So, what changed?
Hello, may I speak to Mr. Robert the Human Resources Manager?
if that happens, then I'll invite you over and we can drink hot cocoa and watch movies.
That's how I feel, I want winter to come soon.
No, don't bother.
Okay, I got it. You're collecting souvenirs!
Yes. If you undertake additional courses, provided these are approved, and you complete them successfully, you can claim back part, quite a large part, 75 % of the costs you incurred. Not just the fees, - traveling and other expenses too.
Why don ’ t you help me save money? You are always spending money.
if you're lucky, it'll get cancelled and you can have a snow day!
Not at all. A party is a party. I'll be happy to come.
I'd like to sit in the rear.
How tall are you? What about your eyesight?
Yes, how much is it?
Well, it's cheap and actually the color fades easily when washed.
What kind of work do you want to do when you finish university?
So long. Thank you for shopping here.
I already looked, but did not see anything.
I suggest we visit the Metropolitan Museum of Art first, Now let's go.look people are jogging along the river.Here we are.
You are from the travel agency, aren't you?
The manager will come to see you in a few minutes.
Mr. Li, does the recommendation of the university play an important role in job hitting?
No, I'm not asking for money, I'm asking for your advice.
I ’ m making a bookcase. Give me that hammer please, Dan.
I like the cool smell, too.
What ’ s wrong with you?
Good luck out there.
Well, to be honest, it will slow things down a little. But it's not a big problem. You can do it by T / T.
What time do you expect him back?
The blue one?
I'm really not sure. Usually just one or two films look set to sweep the awards ceremony, but this year there are several contenders.
I need a few things, I'll give you the list.
It's not cheesy! It's romantic. When it first came out, I saw it in the theaters five times in one week.
well, that's not rare. I've seen people reading at others ' newspaper while taking a metro or a bus.
That ’ s very good. I once turn down a job offer just because the office is awful.
Will this be cash or charge?
Peter, have you seen my purse?
That ’ s my index finger!
What stresses you out the most?
All right. Here ‘ s forty dollars.
She had some rules that helped us to feel comfortable. For example, the students had to treat each other with respect, or they would be disciplined.
I like doughnuts.
I am really sorry too, maybe I can give you a call sometime.
What is the purpose of your visit to the United States?
I'm catching the eleven o'clock train.
Sorry, mum. I won't do it again.
People think it's funny.
Hello! nice to see you here at the finest centre again. What exercises are you going to do today?
Excuse me. How much for one are these?
Yes, there are many cities where it's almost always warm.San Diego, for example.
I agree with you in this way. But how often do you go to work or shopping per week?
How do I know if I qualify for unemployment benefits?
Yes. Actually, both accounts come with cards that you can use in ATM machines, so that you won't have to come in to the bank to make a transaction.
She told me that she's got tennis practice today.
The man behind your mother must be your elder brother.
What if it exceeds the capacity?
I must admit that I like several pieces of classical music. It’s certainly more sophisticated that modern dance music.
Oh. I see. Where are your digital watches?
I was wondering if you have any vegetarian choices.
Thank you, David.
I appreciate the saying ' Love consists in this, that two solitude protect, border and salute each other. '
I like the novels of Inches very much, I have reading almost all of them in Chinese translation, I wish i can reading them in the original.
And nobody knows who built them, right? It's a total mystery!
Well... actually... I was thinking about asking Jess to marry me... I ’ Ve just been so nervous.
So, you didn ’ t buy a good one for me. This time how about a better one?
Oh, yes. I remember Tom. His family comes from Maine, right?
No. It doesn ’ t. There ’ s no through bus to the national history museum Madam..
It's the 11th Avenue, Park Street.
Why don't you drink coffee?
My TV hasn't got a clear picture recently.How ' s yours?
Let's see. You are importing fifty containers of textiles from China. They should be able to place your order before the end of next week. It will take 2 days for shipping to the port city of Ningpo. The freight will take 3 weeks on the open ocean and will arrive in Los Angeles approximately a month from today. Domestic shipping will be your responsibility, you can make arrangements with the pier in Los Angeles.
Now press this button.
Sure, Brian. What ’ s on your mind?
You don ’ t want to eat food that is high in fat. You need to avoid caffeine and sugar.
How time flies! We have been in Beijing for almost 4 years.
Let's call it a day then.Good - bye, everyone.
Tell me, what do you enjoy doing in your spare time?
No, really. Look. It's got a double time zone setting.
Certainly. These are thirty yuan each and these are twenty-five.
Hey! Do you still remember our teacher of economics, Mr. Locker?
I'll take it.
Really? I will try again.
What should I learn first?
Do you have a moment?
Room service.May I help you?
Why not? I'd love to!
It only has 4 beds and 4 writing desks, but it is spacious and bright.
She's one of the prettiest girls at the school.
You don ’ t have to eat them. I don ’ t mind.
They don't have toilets at the campground?
Great! I'm having a great time.
Not really. Cars are not permitted in several parts of city centre, especially in the main shopping areas. The public transport system is pretty good.
I am sorry.The flight is late.Please go to the waiting room for further notice.
I did not. It looks perfectly fine.
of course. The fitting room is right over there.
Has anything hit you in the head lately?
Really? How long did you stay there?
Thank you. Can we get there in half an hour?
But I found you always hate to part with your money. Look at the car you drive ; it's such a junker!
Sure. At present one dollar is equal to 6.4392 yuan. How many dollars would you like to change?
Hi, John! I haven't seen you for ages.
And anything to drink?
You should communicate with the interviewer whose company you are interested in, and make a good impression on him or her. In that case, your chance of success will be greater.
Yeah, I did. But my fiancee has an important project.
I'm totally with you on that.
You need to be interviewed over the phone. They will set up a time for you.
really? what is it?
Oh, thank you kindly.
I thought I did bad on the interview, but I guess I was wrong. I'm so happy right now.
I think he should be an expert of everything.
Yeah but, he is always in a really foul mood. I try to find out what ’ s bothering him or get him to talk about his day but, he always shuts down and brushes me off.
Here's a print out of the study, and this is a disc with the full report on it.The file name is product study, this is and extra copy so you can do whatever you want with it.
What a shame!
It's not a surprise, is it? She has always been a hard working student.
it sounds like you've learned something useful this year!
I'm afraid not! Now this is just between you and me.
Yes, I agree with you. When I retired I will participate in programs to keep momentally active.
He's here.
Yes, you can. Please put your articles in this envelope and seal it.
I don't know how they function the next day! It's like they eat and breathe soccer!
Yes, I did. It is a horrible movie.
Here it is. Four pounds and fifty pence in all.
Oh, I see how this food can be really hard for you. I can sympathize with that. I stayed in Sichuan for a year. The food was difficult at the beginning. Every dish was so spicy. After a while, I got u
Will she need anything besides what's in this box?
Yes, I ’ m a singer.
sure. That ’ s really nice of you. Let ’ s go in and try some things on.
Good. How about you?
Are indoor sports popular?
It's out of the question.
OK, that's all. We'll inform you in two days.
This is good to go. If she wants accessories, just visit us again.
You know, the basics. A rake, shovel, spade and a hoe.
Yes, I did. I passed!
Could you please tell me the international prefix and the country code for Australia?
I was there for about three weeks.
Yeah, that's right. If no one sends me text messages, I'll go crazy.
Nobody knows at the moment, but it has been very hot there recently. The drought in Africa is causing starvation. Millions of people have migrated to try and find food.
Fine, And what about something to drink?
Hey, Tom. You look tired. Are you all right?
Yes, I'll be managing the guys on the dock.
She loves to nit-pick and criticizes everything that I do. I can never do anything right when she ' s around.
And may I take Friday off?
In other words, the Romans do what everyone else does.
The Cranberries. I love their music. How about you? Do you like them?
The 1879 Large Dragon? Are you serious? How much?
Ok, then would you please hold the line? Mr Li, the line is through, Mr Brown is ready answering the call, go ahead.
Of course not, I have to watch my American Idol.
But our order this time is very large. To open an L / C for such a large amount at a bank is costly. Can you be a bit more flexible and bend the rule a little?
It sounds like it will be.
OK, now that we've gotten those straightened out, let's total the score.
No, sir, I am serious. Haven't you heard that today men are becoming increasingly interested in having their eyebrows professionally groomed?
Why not? Do you think I should like modern dance?
No, that's fine. Do you bring your bankbook with you?
How does the bank bill its customers for credit card charges?
It's a light blue coat. It's got a hood and a big silver zipper.
Yeah, it's true. What is she going to do?
after I graduate, I have to do some more studies to pass exams to become a lawyer. I think I ’ Ve got a good chance of passing. There ’ s a possibility of getting a job with a law firm in London, provide
What're you talking about? My alarm even hasn't gone off yet.
She is a nurse.
That sounds great. Do you accept checks?
Okay. I could go for that. It's called Al's Steakhouse. They also have great fried fish, and I love their salad bar. You can go back to refill your plate as often as you like.
I report the social news which means I always interview the citizens of various professions and trades.
I mainly eat baked chicken, because there's not a lot of fat.
It's possible to sign an agreement with us, and then we can pay your staff directly. That is called an Entrustment Agreement.
It doesn't take long at all
Do you like surfing?
That's a lot to sell with very low profit margins.
Oh, no, that's way too heavy a pan for me.
Why am I being arrested?
We got on the wrong bus.
If a client complains about the service of your department, what will you do?
Alice, it really was great. I think it was the most interesting thing here. You really should go in.
Thank you. It was a lot of hard work.But I'm glad I did it.
Do you like watching the Winter Olympic Games?
Well, nothing more than a jumble of photographs.
Yes, take your time, please.
You are not really chubby. You are actually thin enough.
I'm so sorry, I've been held up by the damn traffic jam for half an hour. I'd have arrived but for that.
1446 Pine. That's in San Francisco, isn't it?
Where can I buy textbooks?
Can I have my magazine back now?
Well, three people are celebrating their birthdays this month and the policy here is for everyone to contribute ten dollars to a card and cake for each person.
You're welcome, Goodbye!
Ok. That sounds easy enough. Have you called any of them yet?
Are there any seats available by the emergency exits?
Well, what shampoo do you prefer?
Here's a twenty. Could you give me some more napkins?
Of course, here you are. And you can ask me any question.
Thank you, Henry. I'll get a number 13.
It's a traditional family. It may be too large to live well.
Brazilian against AC Millan.
A radio, a color television, a telephone and a major international newspaper delivered to your room everyday.
Wow. What fillings do you recommend?
No. I don't. I suggest you look in the phone book.
Who cares? She is pretty.
And which direction were you going?
I'll go get the chips. What do you want to drink?
at first, I'll write about my life there. Like interesting things on the campus, travel stories, special English words that I come across. Sometimes, I'll post my pictures on my blog so my family an
Tell me where it happened and how.
I bet it's expensive.
Thank you. Have a nice day.
I know what you mean, Carol. I ’ Ve had nothing but trouble with it. They say It’s supposed to be easy!
I'm afraid we have no reservation by this name.
Brian and Christina were mentioning that maybe it would be fun to go on vacation together this year, John.
Pete! Nice to see you Well, on top the norm, you know, wife and kids and work, I ’ Ve actually gotten into doing some trading.
Does this mean that you have bad news for me?
Do all jobs provide unemployment?
Ok, I know you are not a resident of Beijing. Where is your domicile place then?
Premium or regular, Madam?
A Sprite sounds good.
No problem. What size would you like?
That ’ s great idea. But don ’ t the Tv station lose a lot of money because of that?
With pleasure, sir. May I suggest Steamed stuffed buns and deep-fried twisted dough sticks? They are popular breakfast among Chinese people.
This little red fruit looks good. What's it good for?
I don't really want to.
Return on investment? How can you have a return on this kind of investment? Can you really calculate the value of these training programs?
Do any of the boxes have dancing figures?
I just wanted to give you the good news.
You must be kidding! You cannot get that price anywhere.
May doesn't get along very well with her mother-in-law.
There are a few spots on it. I am afraid you will not have it tomorrow. Dry-cleaning usually takes three days.
I don ’ t have health insurance.
Yes, it really needs redecorating.
Yes, and you could too if your hair wasn't hanging down in your face.
Me? I prefer France.
sounds good! Let's go!
But you'll promise not to be late for dinner tonight, won't you?
maybe people don ’ t like to have friends that are all the same. Most people like a little variety in their lives-including a variety of characteristics in their friends.
What do you expect of the position?
OK, I will prepare it right now.
Just a second. I'll go get some.
I have a bad headache, but...
Let's go. The time is coming.
So, you ’ re applying for a B2 visa, where is your final destination and what ’ s the purpose of your trip to the United States?
Yes, Sir. Do you have that information with you? At this bank, we always recommend our customers write down the reference number of each Traveller's Cheque and keep it in a safe place away from the Traveller's Cheques.
He must have a good ear.
Does tea-serving follow any special etiquette in China? Each time I dropped in at my Chinese friends ' homes, their parents would offer me a cup of hot, strong tea, though they never inquired of me about whether I want it.
Italian, Indian and chinese. I ’ Ve only recently started cooking chinese meals and I need some more practice.
Alright, we need to have a plan here. First of all, which bed do you want?
Yes. We usually send technicians abroad to offer after-sales service to our customers.
I am afraid the new one is not exactly the same as the others.
How is oil supposed to make you relax?
Nice to meet you, sir. I come from New Times Clothes Company. We learnt that your exhibits on the Trade Fair in Shanghai this month were marvelous. Would you please quote the price?
Yeah, I know it sounds weird, but a 401k is a type of retirement plan that allows employees to save and invest for their own retirement. Through a 401K, you can authorize your employer to deduct a certain amount of money from your paycheck and invest it in the plan. Everyone tries to contribute as much as possible so that when you retire, you can rest peacefully on your nest egg.
Why not? Come on! Just a cute little puppy or a kitty!
This bank charges you 6 months interest as a penalty if you withdraw before maturity. Would it be possible to take the money from your Current Account, for example?
Please fill in this application and sign your name down here, at the bottom.
I don ’ t often go for walks, but I either play sports outside-you know, tennis or badminton-or just sit in the sunshine and read a good book.
they usually go on for ages.
What can I do for you today?
Hey, this spot in the shade looks really comfortable.
This year our company is offering a new plan especially for single people like you. I think you might be interested.
Did anyone approach you to ask you to carry anything for them?
Well, as this is the first deal between us, we agree to give you an one-percent discount as a special encouragement.
Have you heard of the Love Bug?
Some guy on the street just mugged me.
Oh, yes. I ’ d love to.
Now let's use the weight machines.
Not really. Considering the fact that other people were willing to pay as much as 200 dollars each on the black market. Besides, I knew you were really looking forward to watching Star Wars on the opening day.
That makes sense. I will do it.
I know in your resume that you have worked in your present company for 3 years. Can you tell me why you want to leave your present job and join us?
That's right. It'll probably work out to be about the same then anyway.
Don't be shy. Have some more chicken.
it's easy! Just go and get a card.
Yes, you get off at the square.
my parents used to love to play checkers and dominoes. We used to have family tournaments every weekend.
Can you tell her to come downstairs? We're about to have dinner.
These are called All Star Chuck Taylors.
Do you really think so?
Good morning. Wilson Association.
It’s about an hour.
I think you should give them some credit. They ’ re very talented people and they deserve all the money they earn. They even donate money to charity to help people who are less fortunate than themselves.
You have a talent. You just don't know what it is yet.
Can I see Mr. Cooper, your manager now?
We open at 6:00 and take last orders at 10 :: 30.
OK, done. When will it show in my account? Not for withdrawal, I mean just registered.
I am glad to hear that. I'm really pleased with it.
this is perfect! What do you think?
What ’ s the hurry?
Perhaps we ought to get dressed and have breakfast. We'd feel better.
Oh, no. When we were poor, we often tried our best to make ends meet. It was a hard time.
What day would you like to reserve the suite for, sir?
Don't worry. I will try to get a taxi for you. You can take it to the bus station.
Why is the car before us stopping?
Politics is a hard game to play.
What about the performance itself?
What do you think is the most important thing when looking for a job?
Sorry, I ’ m not a volleyball-fun. I ’ d rather play football. How about you, Mr. Wang.? Are you interested in volleyball?
Oh, Ralph, I heard it is very dangerous traveling in space. Disasters have happened before. If the spaceship were out of order...
the Taj? They're a bit expensive, but they do serve large portions of very hot food.
Well, ou can't hear music until takeoff.
Do you go to church regularly?
Can you offer the Five Insurances for me?
"Ok, so can I say, "" This is Abby's voicemail. I will call you later, so leave me your name and number ""."
Well.The doctor said I have to remain here for at least two more days because I'm rather weak after childbirth.
About 2 o ’ clock in the morning.
All right, who should I send them to?
Will you look at this form?
They have yellowish red skin. It's a fruit with one big seed.
Yes, but at least this way no one gets hurt.It ' s better to have a fire in your house when you're not home. Don't you think?
Aunt Jane buys a new bike for Tom. He is putting on grand airs.
How about 9 o'clock tomorrow morning?
That movie's just a lot of noise, same as Simon.
I could handle everything pretty well in the old position, so I decided to move around and learn something new.
How do you think the transport system in our city could be improved?
Yes, it is, but you'll have to discuss the details with your manager.
Why? You're not fat.
There are a lot! Two really bad ones are Giant Monster and Human Spider.
How long does the rainy season last?
Sure. I love going to the mall.
Maybe we should make a plan and list what we should do next, and follow it.
No, but someone said he was in the men's room puking. Follow me!
I will pick you up at your hotel at eight in the morning.
Nothing. I am just checking.
Wow. this is nice. I'll take this one. I guess if she doesn't like it she can return it, right?
How about a dessert to top off that wonderful meal?
There's a large wooden crate in the corner which I haven't unpacked yet. It might be in there.
Hey, Tom, I want to learn how to play golf.
that ’ s another quid.
That makes sense. Did you go on a honeymoon?
Well, I can ’ t believe your uncle and aunt came to stay with us for a week, and they did not even call us in advance.
All I need is your name, phone, and reservation date.
No tipping? Now that's what I call a civilized system.
Do you like the Harry potter books and movies?
Your parents must be worrying about him.
A fly-away tie! What a riot!
I think i have bake potatoes.And i now have a ice tea with lemon on the side, please.
Hi, may I get you anything to drink?
Well, is it possible for you to effect shipment by the middle of June?
What did you do after high school?
I am sorry.sir, I will check for you.what ' s your room number?
Mormons believe that, after the death of Christ and the death of the Apostles 10, their church Christ founded became corrupt and the authority of Christ on earth was lost to men. In 1830, a prophet named Joseph Smith was brought up by God to restore the church.
Are you free on Friday evening because we were wondering if you would like to come round for dinner?
No, can you tell me about it?
Well, it's true.The board man last thirdly and they choice Paul.
Thank you so much. Is this the desk for BA flight 123 to London?
Well, they consider some distinct but related problems, such as seeking for a target market or locating the promising customer. An exporter needs to know about the social characteristics of people he is dealing with.
Tom, hi, this is Mary with Gold Star Mortgage.
And it's all coming down to the next three weeks.
What's your email address?
Did you find anything?
Yes, I am seven. I am a big girl now.
It's true. I would never go there again either.Country music is a nightmare. So is it the Latin Club?
That ’ s a good idea. I haven ’ t been in a while and I need to get a new backpack. The old one is hanging on by a thread!
What commission do you usually pay for your exports? As you know, we import on commission basis.
I just dropped in to say goodbye.
I spend all my time looking after my baby. I'm so tired.
Oh, yes. I like to exercise. But I don ’ t watch sports or buy sports magazines. I don ’ t have much time to do those things.
What about this one? Do you like this program?
Paul, what kind of music do you like to listen to?
They're for my Wife. Her name is Samantha.
Could you see his face?
I'd like to go to Suzhou next week. Do you know how to get there by train?
This is not common noodles. They're “ long-lived ” noodles.it ' s an old Chinese tradition to eat.long - lived noodle on birthday.
Yes. Show me the sweaters, please.
See your problem? You get so restless when It’s time to calm down.
Just two people.
What kind of relationship do you think should exist between a supervisor and employee?
Nice to see you again.
I'll pick you up around 8: 00.
I haven't made up my mind. Maybe I will go to the US. What about you?
I have just got lost with my friends. Would you please help me find them?
No way. I'll never find another apartment around here. But I don't like the idea of paying three months ' rent on an empty apartment, either.
It's scary.
Well, I see the cable. But my computer runs on wireless only.
Let me repeat that back to you. That's zero, double seven, eight, seven, three, six, seven, double six, double eight.
I ’ ll try, but what if she insists?
Yes. Playing chess is a very aggressive experience. All the pieces are supposed to capture their opponents. Whenever I start a chess game, I can't help but imagine a concrete battle in which all fighters stand ready to kill.
I just wouldn't be comfortable.
It's free ; just go ask for one.
If you join us, our company will provide you a single dormitory. If you make great achievements, our company will offer you a flat according to the related regulations. It all depends.
No wonder he asked for my address first-he just wants to harass me!
Yes, they have been concerned about me finding a job.
Sorry, I can ’ t.
Hello, Mr Gwent. What can I do for you today?
You'd better have all a light schedule. You can rest up for a few days if your parents find tired 。
If you could just talk to him, I would greatly appreciate it.
Oh, Melanie, you are a life saver, thank you!
Why does he want to do that?
Dinner will be ready at about 7:30 pm, so you can come over at 7 p. m.
Hey, John! What do you think are the main causes of war today?
Yeah, you are right. Internet makes our lives easier. But it's a two-blade sword.
I'd like to order room service to room 202, please ,
But think of how much money you'll save! You can use it for a year.
Can you do it?
The special today is fried chicken, and beef is good too.
Mr. Sandals, may I see your ID, please?
Thank you.Have a nice day.
We make a lot of Easter eggs and then paint some designs on them. We'll also go to church and pray.
We check their production schedule against our orders almost every day. As new orders keep coming in, they are working three shifts to step up production. I'm sorry, but we simply cannot commit ourselves beyond what the production schedule can fulfill.
Did you even bother to go to school today?
You can ’ t make me move just for being late with my rent.
Is that why you missed work today?
But I thought it was. Anyway. I am in a hurry. Here is the money.
Welcome. I could use the help.
How long has the pipe been leaking?
Oh, I see. You like the Chinese style, don't you?
How about winter?
Have a nice nap.
I have no reason to distrust him. He's never caused any harm.
Well, we give each of our customers a qualified personal trainer. The trainer will give you a fitness assessment and then come up with the work-out plan.
Me too. I get much more done when I am under the gun.
Bruh, that the concert was on point.
She freelanced with us for 3 years. She was always consistent and punctual with her assignments and a pleasure to work with.
I need to effect a payment under my L / C. Not the old one, the new one my Assistant came in and dealt with last week.
Oh, yes, I worked there for two years, just graduated from college.
Have you graduated from college?
Yeah. He's the most experienced athlete in the field.
Can you tell me how much it will cost to send a package to Colombia? Also, I what to know how long it will take.
Do you take a bus to and from work?
Oh, no. We've bought your return ticket for you. I think you'll find it comfortable.
My check for $ 100 bounced.
Necklace, ring, and earrings are all fine. But don ’ t wear too many pieces of jewelry.
That's great! Congratulations.
I'm sorry, sir, we don't have one. However, in our gym, we do have swim stations.
Not on my life! I'm the best man, so I pay!
Be patient for just a few minutes, sir, and someone will be at your door.
Oh, that's too bad. Should I call a doctor?
This house is very nice for me, but I can ’ t afford it in a lump sum.
Lucy, come here! I can see the lake which is in the center of park.
I see. How can I pay by Telegraphic Transfer?
There's a 20 percent service charge in this hotel.
Can you help me find a nice gift for my young niece?
What's your name and account number?
Have a nice day, Ma ’ am.
Hikers tell me that the cream is best because it stays on longer.
Sounds good. I want to go get some coffee.
I was in the bank during the robbery.
If you bring them back with your receipt within seven days, you'll get a full refund. Also, if you need alterations to the pants, just bring them in and we'll do them for free.
You should try and make it early to your polling place.
OK, I'd love the company.
I went to Jessie's birthday party yesterday. It was very good.
I would like to have a continental breakfast.
Can I get a cheeseburger and some fries?
He seems to be quite qualified. If it is a personal problem I preferred if you would work out between yourselves.
Mike, that's no help to me at all. I can't wear both of them at the same time. I want a decision.
I am sorry.sir.Your plane has just taken off.
About 12. She is a good girl.
Would you care for something to drink, Mr. Stone?
Why don't you send it by mail payment order?
Someone told me to go to a convenience store and see how much a soft drink or a tube of toothpaste costs. The idea is that by comparing the prices of those items, you can figure out the relative prices of everything else.
I just hope the priest makes it quick. I ’ m starving. I hope the food ’ s good at the reception.
Excuse me, Is there a hotel nearby?
OK, sir. When will you be there?
Are you an American?
Don't you know that? It's panda.
These girls are different, they are not wimpy.
Hello, Arthur. What seems to be the problem?
I want to buy that candy.
Me too. Have a great day.
In that case, you are not allowed to work in China, until you get the employment petition.
I have to say you're a well-matched couple.
Do you know where I get off at?
I've never tried E-shopping. Is it better than shopping at an actual store?
Yes. And he used to play the piano with a jazz group at the university.
I can't stand the stupid guy any longer. It's unbelievable.
Excuse me. I think I have got lost in the Art Gallery. Can you tell me the way to the exit.
It should also be truthful and realistic. Do not blindly blow your own horn.
Sorry to trouble you. Can you tell me how to get to the City Bank?
oh, Iris! what was it about this time?
We have a great variety of men's suits, sir.Which particular brand do you prefer?
Actually, I can do both soprano and alto but the director asked me to sing alto for the next perforate. What about you.
Grangerfield is like a dozen miles away from here.
Gosh, it's 7:30, I'll miss the first class.
With the cabinets taken out, it might be bigger than it looks.
Okay, thanks for everything.
I'm so hungry! Can you buy me a burrito?
Me too. Swimming is a very good exercise for health. It combines water, bath, sunbath, and air bath together. It promotes the growth and haleness of muscles, bone, viscera and nerve systems.
It's 600,000 RIB. But I've already put down 200,000 RIB, which is my absolute limit, so I'm looking for a loan of 400,000 RIB.
How is this going?
Well, all right. There is nothing to complain about.
Dana. I can't bring those numbers back to my office, they'll turn it down flat.
What reason are you washing here today?
And we got a 50 thousand dollar ticket for construction workers peeing off the roof.
Sure. I am free tomorrow. It sounds interesting to me. Can we buy the ticket online?
Thank you, sir. I will cancel Mr. White's reservation from November 21st for 4 nights. We look forward to another chance to serve you.
My boss gave me a big project. I had to have it finished by this morning. It was so difficult.
Yeah. I think so.You have to be patient and careful.
Oh, thank you. That's very nice of you.
I would like to do that right now, if I could.
I know education is expensive, but it's been my lifelong dream. Call me crazy, but I've always wanted to have that PhD at the end of my name.
I want to speak to you about this year ’ s election.
Let me see them. Yes, they're OK.
she says a part-time job is cursed blessing. It takes so much time and energy that I won ’ t be able to focus on my studys.
No, it didn't. But they are glad I called them.
What on earth has that got to do with some money disappearing?
The idea of doing it at night is interesting. Maybe I'll try it some day.
We spoke with you the first week we moved in about things that you promised to fix.
This one is two hundred yuan.
It's 38 dollars.
Yes, we do. What size do you want?
Sir, sir, are you all right, sir?
Well, it can't be helped. I really must have that money. Thank you.
I can ’ t tell you that.
Then I talked to her and got her number. You know what? When you don't know what to say? Just drink.
Yes, maybe another choice might be better.
You're not looking happy.What ' s the matter?
Well, first let's consider your computer. Here, for example, is a system I highly recommend-the Power Macintosh G3. it comes with 64 megabytes of total memory.
Salary is based on experience as well as time spent with our company.
Yes, we do.My parents prepare dinner for me.
Yeah, that's it.
What would you like for your main dish?
Hello. I want to reconfirm our flight to London.
You are sick, young lady. Get back in bed! I called you in sick today, so you're going to lie down and fight that flu!
It doesn't matter, because you damaged my car.
I like to play computer games, read books, go shopping, and play pool.
I want a big pan.
Kate, you know, I am thinking of getting a part-time job next year because I really need more money and I don't want to ask my parents for any more. But I'm so busy! How am I going to work and study
Sure.That ’ s not a problem.Do you have the list of courses you want to taketh semester?
That shouldn't be a problem, as long as we can make ends meet.
I ’ m a nurse.What do you do in your free time?
I see myself as being honest, diligent, persevering and creative. And I have a strong sense of responsibility.
Well, haven't you ever heard people say that there is always one piece of clothes missing from a woman's wardrobe?
Thanks for the warning! See you tomorrow!
Birds of feather flock together.
It is tough to accept it, I mean. But can you tell me why?
Monica, wait a moment. I think we ’ d better call the repair man to do it.
I stayed with my friends.
No, it isn't mine. I blundered upon it under the sofa. Do you know whose watch it is?
We keep it and return it later.
Commitment to the company and the team is very important to us here.
I didn ’ t bring cash with me today.
After what you did, I don't know how hard Elvin's going to work to meet your deadline.
Good luck with your life.
Well, I think we will order after we finish the main course.
It’s on Tuesdays and Fridays.
I actually like the food there.
Hi, Jack, we are having a party tonight, wanna coming enjoy us? You can bring your girlfriend, Tina.
Needless to say.
Do you think that there's life on other planets?
In that case, you should go to the baggage hall over there.
I was told I should have the letter sent directly to your office.
All right, come back and bring your ID.
That's so true. When you have a taste for success, you can't let dishonest people like your manager get in the way.
Let's do something different today.
What do you like best about her?
Everybody who walks past me sees it. Besides, it's a good sunbathing suit.
What's on the menu today?
Bob, did you see our supervisor? I need him to sign this paper.
We ’ re identical. I mean, we look exactly the same, but we are complete opposites when it comes to everything else.
Oh right... How about Sunday?
I'm sorry, Miss, but I'm afraid we can't do that. You'll order something else instead. I'd love to suggest the steak, it's the special today, and quite tasty.
Do you think that's a good spot?
What's more, he said I was the hardest working person in the office!
Excuse me, you look lost. Can I help you?
So how are things in the land of the free and the home of brave?
I heard that this stock would go up. Hum, I will take it at current price.
If you want something manly, stick with the espresso.
Tell me where you live.
He had better make a change.
How much is the tape record?
Tell me what the street signs say.
Thanks. I'll look into it and let you have our firm offers tomorrow.
Would you please tell us how to review our lessons?
Yes, please. I'll really appreciate that.
I'm quite outgoing i think. I enjoy mixing and doing things with others.
That would be fine.
It’s harmful not only for yourself but for others.
Well, I guess we ’ ll just have to wait and see.
Do you have a copy of the ID card of the person who took care of the legal aspects of this? The Legal Rep, I mean? We also need the Loan Certificate as well. Do you have that?
Okay. Stay home Sunday. But Friday we should go out dancing.
That ’ s impressive. How would you make that pay?
What is wrong with your face?
Ok.Here you are.Is that all right now?
I know that It’s going around the dorms.
Yes. Wait for me at the cafe down my office building. Say 5 PM, ok?
( The attendants fill the tank, clean the windscreen, and add some air to the tires. ) All right, sir, that'll be $ 26.50.
Yes. I'd like to change some money, please.
How about your appetite?
I ’ d love to but I have to help John with his math problems right now.
I can wait a few days for these items.
Thanks. You ’ d be ok on your own. There are loads of fashion victims out there, and you are not one of them. Have you tried it on yet?
No, I thought I would take it later.
Hi, I'm home! Can you double that recipe? I ran into an old friend after work and invited him for dinner.
All right. But it'll be difficult to buy tickets I suppose.
Sure. If we can get an appointment with someone to do the floors, we should probably be able to have the furniture in here after a week or so. I can get all the carpet out this weekend.
What are the pop groups that you like?
I just kept pushing buttons. I was transferred to customer service, but there a machine told me to choose between technical help, warranty information, or price information.
You'd better get up or you'll be late.
Okay, Okay, I got it! This is the ring finger!
Mother Nature is quite an artist.
You ’ re darn right!
They arrested me for nothing.
Would you like some more coffee?
I am not against the idea, Arnold.It may really be more efficient, as you say. I'll tell you what we can do.Why don't we try your proposal for a month, and see how it works.
I'm not sure, he didn't say when he wound return. If you'd like.you can leave him a message until he is back to you until the moment it's free.
Can I choose the home inspector?
We set up an agreement with the, say, phone company. They tell us how much to pay them every month and we pay directly from your account. Of course, we are able to do this with all of the utilities companies.
Thanks. I need to make a few photocopies.
as long as you plan carefully, most thing are possible. It’s always good to have a backup plan in case things go wrong.
Jason, it's your turn.
Why do you want to take the police to court?
Because you are my dear wife.
Alice, your father is amazing. He ’ s 90 years old and he lives alone in that big house.
Sorry, tomato soup is not being served today, but we have egg soup, it's very delicious. Why don't you try it today?
He stays up untill all hours of the night, and he never lifts a finger to help.
That ’ s no laughing matter. That means she ’ ll have to take the whole course again. I can ’ t believe she ’ s going to have to start from the beginning.
Would you have any necklace that would go well with this?
He ’ s not bad. He can jump a distance of over four meters. I think he just prefers running to jumping. Jimmy ’ s very good at the high jump. He can jump over two meters. Again, that ’ s fine for someone hi
Yes, of course, Mr Peters! Good to see you again. What can we do for you today?
that ’ s a really long line. How long do you think it ’ ll take to get through all those people?
I'm supposed to be in Rome on the morning of the fourteenth, but I'd rather get there on the evening of the thirteenth.
Yes, doctor. ( The doctor examines the patient )
Just a moment. I'll make out your duty memo. ( Writing and giving the memo to Mr. Green ) Take it and pay the girl over there.
yes.In fact, maybe we could go together.
You spend two weeks with dad in his ambulance as an EMT trainee and volunteer at the emergency room for one month.
I like it a lot but I need to talk with my wife. Can you hold it for me for two days?
I don't see a problem.
Well, people sometimes set off firecrackers, some people burn paper money as an offering and many people go to a temple to burn incense.Mainly though, you need to feed the ghosts because they're hungry.
Well, Peter. I'm sorry you're ill. What's the matter with you?
Flight 17. And my luggage should be delivered there by 4 o'clock.
Wait a second, Vince. You know what? Why don't you let me handle it?
Thanks. Please give me the style in this picture here but make the wave longer. I would like hair spray, please.
On balance, dress designing appeals to me most.
Size 36... I think.
Why can't I just give you the money for the fine?
What about going to the zoo on Saturday and to the park on Sunday?
That's great! Thank you very much.
But I am a transfer passenger. I have a connecting flight to Miami.
Fairly warm this morning, isn't it?
Mr. : For tomorrow, read pages 12 to 20. Then do exercises one through ten on page 21.
Mostly on the civil war. You should also study the impact Martin Luther King Jr. had on American society.
What else is there at the EDD offices that can help me with my job search?
You can use some time off.You ' Ve been working too hard anyway.
We wake up early and go to church.Then we come back home and open our gifts together. How about you?
Hello, I brought a lap-top computer with me. Do you know how can I use the internet in my room?
You mean the boy who felt carsick just now?
So what's the problem?
Yes. I practice every weekend with my teammates.
Fine. Thank you.
I can come down and fix that for you if you'd like.
Yeah, I think it will be wonderful.
Hello, Mr. Gao. We appreciate your letting us have the apartment.
Oh, yes, I like that one, but it's too heavy.
Why? Will those be students who are leaving?
What's the 30 yuan for?
I'm an open book. Watch me all you want.
It's my favorite.
What we need you to do next is to come into the branch with a correctly filled in application form, ID card, proof of residency, proof of income, the agreement from the agent and of course the 20 % down payment.
Calm down! It is useless to act like that. Can we find some solutions?
Why did you choose to attend that college?
Our two most important workshops are Resume Writing and Interviewing.
He must be very brave.
I'm fine. Thank you.
I see.Has she read any detective stories?
Did you enjoy it?
no, he doesn ’ t. Anyway, she found out that he had been two-timing her for a long time.
This one comes with its own folding keyboard. It has a pre-installed handwriting recognition program. I can use the stylus to write on the screen.
Then it'll give me my money?
Your father is a bit too timid. He even doesn't know how to introduce himself.
It seems that his ball has flown somewhere deep in the trees. He is having a hard time finding it and even his caddie has climbed a tree to try and spot it.
Remember, they want someone who works well with people. You've got to show them how easy-going and personable you are.
Well, then, would you fill out this PIR from? And also we need your signature here.
I don't buy a story.
I want a Special King size and some chips.
Hello, I'd like to talk to someone about making a withdrawal.
That would be our Saver's Plus account.
Hello, Jack.Happy birthday!
Than you, I'm not late, am I?
What a charming room! It faces south, and there's such a lovely view of the city.
He has a long head, I bet he will do well in his business.
If you take an antihistamine, that would help a lot.
Oh, I like it. It's such a beautiful dance, but I can't do it well. What about you?
There is no need to do like this. We can surf the net and find some templates for resume.
You're right.
The sea is calm and peaceful. A sea trip is always enjoyable in fine weather like this.
I'm not sure which would be better for me ; buying some insurance or putting my money in a Savings Deposit.
We will meet at 5:00 right here.
Yes, I would like the chicken cheese enchiladas with a side of guacamole.
May I have headphones for the in-flight movie?
Looking at the beautiful creatures and listening to their songs are such wonderful experiences. I feel as if I'm in direct contact with nature.
To be frank, sometimes it is not so safe as doing business through traditional ways.
Yes. I was right there.
Yes. All international ping-pong tournaments have become a demonstration of Chinese supremacy in the sport.
Mother, I don't remember the girls. How old are they?
That ’ s a good idea. The counselor is a psychologist. He ’ s better trained to handle these sorts of things.
You can come back in twenty minutes, and it will be ready.
There.It looks great, don ’ t you think? I ’ m going to get these jeans as well. I need a new pair. I ‘ m also going to buy this scarf ready for winter.
We ’ ll try our best, but you'd better prepare for the worst.
Of course not.There are so many people here today.
OK.let ' s go.
It's about twelve hours.
You need to take it at bedtime.
I ’ m a large.
Is it the rush hour now?
I ’ m looking for a budget hotel in Orlando. Have you ever stayed at the Comfort Hotel?
that ’ s a good idea. After I get rid of the old clothes I no longer wear, I can see what new clothes I need to buy.
What does the benefits package include?
That's too bad, but I sincerely hope you will give our request your special consideration.
Yes, please do.
How about this pen?
I love it. It's so festive! And where did you get that cup? It's got the same logo.
Doesn't she have any friends?
I ’ Ve looked over your resume, ms.Jane. I see you ’ Ve already have quite a lot of experience in secretary work, could you tell me something about your talent with that company?
I can eat my bacon and eggs while you are exchanging my pancakes for waffles.
By the way, how do you like to pay for it? This hotel prefers cash.
A hundred and fifty. No, wait, make that a hundred and sixty.
Good morning, can I see your passport, please?
Do you accept coupons?
I know. I think it may rain.
Yes. What will you do these two days?
For water retention, I am going to start you on Hydrochlorothiazide, which is a diuretic.
It's not expensive. I'll take it.
We are, 27 to 26.
Hello, Tom. Where are you heading for?
did you always do well at school?
I want to take a photograph.
Yes, I think that is a danger, and I think that.. in fact is what mishappening to a lot of people who use it as their... their main... um field of amusement and... because they don't have other outside interests and even when people come round they'll leave the television and not be, you know, particularly interested in talking to them, you Know the television will be the main thing in the room.
Well, I sympathize with your problem, but, to be honest, I don ’ t think there is any thing anyone can do for you. You were trapped in the system.If you want, you can talk to the director. She will help you if she can.
But when I noticed that he was left in the cold, I could not help wanting to help him to get out of the situation.
You did mess up a little on one thing.
I'll take a dozen.
Waiter, I would like to order now.
If you stayed up much later, you would see that just about every-thing closes around ten anyway.
Really, she's so pretty.
Lamb and beef. It will get even tastier when we add the veggies!
To some extent, I regard books as my good companion.
Did you stop at the big waterfall for pictures?
Hello, can I speak to Mr.Green?
Is it very cold in winter there?
Sure. What are they?
Excuse me, sir. This is your passport.
We can just go through them next time. It's no problem. Really.The most important thing is to know your limits.So if you feel burned out now, it is good to stop.Because if you strain a muscle or hurt your back, then you won't be able to exercise for a couple weeks. Right?
It tastes great, but it is really dry. Is your fish all right?
Nah! It was cheap!
Are you deaf or what?
Now, I've finished. How do you like it?
I would also like to check out this magazine.
What is the material of this dress?
One of the back ones.
This is Steven speaking. I'd like to buy a stock.
Oh. That ’ s a pity. I thought that we might go hiking in the hills.
So we must get you to the hotel as soon as possible. I hope to see you refreshed and revitalized tomorrow morning, as we are going to visit the Great Wall.
This one is the same size and color. But the design is different.
What computer languages have you learned?
Wait, what are you doing! You can ’ t just kiss me then go for second base!
Yes, it will ; this must be the foreign produce.
I haver run out of gas.
Aright. I'll get a tee time for Wednesday at about 4
That's all right.Thank you.
wise decision. that is 400 yuan. You'll find it's totally worth it.
Just a minute please. Oh, I'm sorry, all the tickets for tonight have been sold out.
Look, dear. It’s over there.
Well, I suppose people have different tastes on music. Moreover, here stuff is really strong and creative. It takes time for people to accept new things.
Of course, we are the happiest family in the world.
Well, I think you look very pretty in your polka dot purple dress with your hair piled at the rear. That makes you very graceful and mysterious.
Client Services? Oh, hello. I need your help.
What did he want?
Do you want to pick them up or should we deliver them?
Frightened? You must be joking!
Good heavens! Don't bring that frog in the house.
And Seattle is the home of Microsoft and Boeing. That must be a great place. I can't miss it.
Entrusting life to the care of a rope indeed requires infinite courage.
Sure. It's 2331-7600.
Well, you could go down to 22nd street. There are lot of stores down there that are open 24 hours a day.
how many chapters does the book have?
I ’ ll do that for you.
I am worried that I messed up on a test.
It's just some turbulence.
Do you think children watch too much tv?
Good afternoon, you look a little stuck. Can I help?
Just asking? But why is your face burning like mad? Ah-huh, someone has a crush on Jenny, doesn't he?
he borrowed some money from me and I needed it back. He said he didn ’ t have the money yet.
Now, why do you want to exchange it?
Thank you very much.By the way, is the hospital beside the bookshop.
Well, I guess you've learned a good lesson, huh. You have to take good care of your teeth.
Now you can go to the in-patient department to go through the admission procedures.
A party of 13.
Yes, I'd like to rent a car.
I don ’ t think I ’ Ve ever read a good review of an exhibition by that critic. He doesn ’ t seem to like anything. Which kinds of paintings do you prefer?
I was so dehydrated that I drank like a gallon of water, and my head has been pounding all day. I swear, I ’ m never gonna drink again!
Yes, But I couldn ’ t help it. I was late getting off work for a start and then I miss the bus. The bus I did catch that stuck in the traffic jam. It was one thing after another.
Do you have brothers and sisters?
Well, thanks for your help.
I ’ ll be ready.
we ’ re glad that you ’ re here. Would you like a tour of the house?
What do you do on that day?
How much did you pay for the TV?
maybe because they think they know everything already! ha ha.
Thank you so much. That's very kind of you.
Is that right? Wonderful, wonderful. I've been in King Dao for two years now. A great place. Nice people and great beer! Well, I guess we ’ d better get started.
No, you mustn't sit on the grass. Don't you see the notes?
Yes, lots of time. I was quite impressed by the wide variety of exhibitions they have.
Yes, I try to keep in touch with them.
You understand a timely delivery is very important to us.
Hello! I was exhausted some studying, so I decided to read the newspaper to relax. Unfortunately, the news is so depressing. There has been another murder in the city center. I ’ m shocked that the police haven ’ t caught the killer yet.
Oh, I like red wood. How much do you charge for it?
And would you like anything to drink?
Is there a lot of snow in this region at this time of the year?
Really? That's the icing on the cake. Congratulation again!
Or else I'll get into trouble.
You might not believe this, but I used to be twice the size than I am now!
Of course.First, you must sand the furniture. You sand it to make the wood smooth.You start with heavy-grade sandpaper. Then, you move to finer-grade sandpaper.
Hello, Shelly, is it? I'm here on behalf of my company, so I'll need the Corporate Banking Services.
yes, we can, but it isn ’ t very interesting.
It's a girl.
Sure. The coach leaves at 6:30 a. m., in front of our office. The drive takes eight hours, with two stops to see some sights.
That sounds about right to me, fifty cents a bag. If they think you don ’ t know better, they ’ ll try to get more.
E-commerce, or Electronic Commerce is the practice of purchasing and selling products or services over the Internet.
What's Donna like, by the way?
Uh... what game?
Excuse me. Would you tell me where The People's Park is?
Would you like to ask me anything?
Exactly, it seems like it's going to be loads of fun.
Thank you for taking my word over the computer's word.
You look run down, Brian.
At which stop should I get off?
How strange! Our little emperor now asks to help out with shopping.
That's great. Let's go!
Hello. I'd like to reconfirm my flight, please.
You should probably pay the fine soon.
Hi, Dr Evans. Thanks for seeing me on such short notice. When I woke up this morning I had a really sore throat and a really bad cough. I think I am coming down with the flu.
You have to give it back to me.
$ 60.The price is reasonable for its large quantity. What's more, there are some gifts attaching for you.
I ’ m sorry, but until you pay it, you won ’ t be able to check out any more books.
Let me get the asking price of the stock. Just a moment. Oh, now the asking price is $ 90 each share. By the way, what is the offering price?
What classes do you plan on taking?
But I just got a call from my sister and I have to cancel the movie tonight.
What's happening in that country?
Thank you very much. This has been a most unsettling experience.
Don't you know that yellow means slow down?
Mr Wang, did you sign any bill in the last two hours in our hotel?
Have a good day. Bye-Bye!
I need you to tell me what the problem is.
the only problem is that I'm going to really miss having the freedom that you have with a car.
We will keep and return it later.
It was in the living room.
Certainly. Could you put it on the scales, so I can check the weight?
Yes, we won't travel again until October.
I believe you ordered the Grand Slam breakfast.
What is that they're doing on the couch?
Hello, who is speaking, please?
What were you screaming at me for?
Could you please tell me something more about the conditions for the tender?
Let ’ s also go to the jewelry store to buy a crystal necklace. I want to buy one for you as your birthday present.
Right. We couldn't handle much larger shipments.
You know, sometimes patients can get very unreasonable. They may insist they are sick when they are not.
I never know how to rate the employees ' work. Of course attendance and productivity are easy, I just look at the sales figures.
I love it when the weather is like this.Why don't we sit down outside and have our lunch?
I don't know.It ' s still up in tha air.
Are you interested in science? I can't believe it.
Do you have your passport with you?
Sorry. I feel like sitting out the next dance.
Is the view going to be ok?
Well, I'll call you immediately for instructions on the matter.
Certainly, sir. How do you want it?
Never mind being sorry, what are you going to do about it?
So Alex, you ’ re off to the Olympic stadium then?
I ’ m a fashion designer. Next month, I have a fashion show. I ’ d love it if come. I can get you a couple of tickets. So you can bring a friend if you like.
No. Let's go over to the check-out stand.
Yes, I ’ m 38 years old.
Did you have hotel card or something?
Not necessarily. I think people would be impressed by your language abilities. It says something about your level of intellect and experience. Also, I think human resources directors want to see more of a well-rounded person in a resume.
Oh, what a shame. Only sleeping cars have tickets. Others are all out of stock. The price of the sleeping car is almost the same as the airplane.You see, the discount plane tickets are no more than 500 yuan. A good deal, isn't it?
Would you please go to a dancing party with me?
Okay, sir, bear with me a moment.
I mean to double the amount for your sales this year at least.
I read it, but I couldn ’ t understand it. Would you come to my room and tell me how to use them?
Oh I ’ m enjoying myself but It’s so hot here
My parents wanted me to stay in Hongkong, but I decided to go back to England, I graduated from Oxford University with a degree in English literature.
We'll discuss the contract in detail.
Do you have a club card or will it be cash?
Sounds good. I'll see you then!
It's nothing Navy.
I have a court date coming up.
Bob, What are you thinking about?
The first and simplest thing you have to do is make some white rice.
Here is your boarding pass.
hey, look outside! It's started to drizzle!
No, it's also necessary to list a few related interests that are in some way connected to the jobs you want to take.
I have to work this Tuesday.
I'd like to have steak and a beer.
Oh, he's 14 and in the past few months, he's become quieter and a bit secretive. He locks himself in his room and I think he's running around with the wrong crowd.
Where are you going for lunch?
Oooh! One for each of the zeros in 2000! Wow!
Do you know how to do it? I am not so good at machine things. I will have somebody do it as soon as possible.
All right. That sounds fair.
Just three. I'll be back at 3:00 p. m.
Not really. I wasn thinking of maybe going to a movie. Do you want to go with me?
Is that better?
I have been a class commissary in charge of studies for two years.
Well, you wanna take a sick leave? All you need now is a good, long rest.
Be careful.You can't smoke here.
This is a good basic computer package. It's got a good CPU, 256 megabytes of RAM, and a DVD player.
Friday sounds good.
Don't loose heart. Everything will be fine.
Of course they are.
... Now that we have been over the gory details of our disastrous first quarter, Ed! Give us some good news. How are things looking for us in terms sales this month?
What?! Isn't there a law against that, I think there is some legislation that requires employers to give their employees a fair rate of wages. You should know your rights! If you are putting in so many hours, they should give you some kind of compensation.
Anita, I ’ Ve been here only three days and you ’ re leaving already.
That's a good idea. I haven't been in a while and I need to get a new backpack. The old one is hanging on by a thread!
I was in charge of cost price and sales revenue.
We don ’ t want that. Well. perhaps will be begin with mushroom soap and follow by some seafood and chips.
Thanks. I'll pay you back on Friday.
Would you like to pay for the room in cash or with a credit card?
It’s nice to meet you, too.
Tom, this is Mary Bobbins. She ’ s just come over from sales.
Sarah, you don't look so good. What's the matter?
What kind of girl is she?
Hey, kid, that's wrong. It's a Chinese restaurant. Let's eat something traditional.
It's quite late, and you have an early day tomorrow.
Hi, Mr. James, what's the rush?
Can you make yourself understood in English without too much difficulty?
Doing anything for lunch?
I don ’ t know what to wear! Ok, give me your opinion. Do you like the way this looks? The striped short sleeved shirt with this checkered sweater and my lucky sandals. I like the cut and hemline of these shorts so I think I ’ ll wear these as well.
What food are we out of?
Working in the gym is a very good way for losing weight. What else do you have?
It would be nice if the weather would never change.
Can I borrow your suit?
What do you do for work?
Hey, darling, I think I might have a little heatstroke from being in the sun all day. I was so relaxed. It felt as if I were in another world.
We ’ Ve got a wide selection do you know if you ’ d like a point-and-shoot, or something a little fancier? Are you shopping for yourself or for someone else?
Yes, it does.
No, I didn't go, I've been sick.
I certainly can't afford it, but I'm sure I could find some good student loans.
Who do you mean?
It's for free, because your computers are still in the period of guarantee--two years.
If you don't mind me asking, how did you enjoy your stay at New York Hotel?
I couldn't agree more!
I'm glad you appreciate our folk music. But a live performance is much more interesting.
What are your hobbies?
that's very sensible. Would it be alright if I left early today to prepare for the trip?
I know you, Zina. You're only nice when you want something.
OK. Any time on Friday will be OK with me.
How many payment methods are there?
Uh-huh. How about you?
Don't you know they've already broken up?
Hello, Mr. Black, I'm calling to say goodbye.
It was hard at the beginning, but now feel it's really relaxing. It makes me flexible.
Where are you going for your holidays, Charles?
OK, let's move on!
They sure are. They are practically jumping in the boat.
I need to find the cereal aisle.
Did they take good care of you in the hospital?
Well, I bombed my econ final and ended up with a 1.7.
That's too bad.What kind of accident is it? Are you all right?
Regrettably, no. But simply present your VISA to cover your deposit.
I ’ Ve always thought that most bureaucrats are lazy.
We can do it when you have some time.
Oh, that's too bad, Where can you park around here?
Would you like to order anything off the appetizer menu?
Well, what about the 50 you spent on a shirt? You could have gotten something for less.
Well I ’ m impressed with what the company has done in the past and I think by hiring me the company ’ s future can only be brighter. I find that my personal goals and ideas about business operation
Here it is. Let's go.
Masha, it seems quiet and makable, no quarrelling about who get the house and stock and then contesting the divorce with other details worked out.
What do you want for your drink?
He is in the bedroom and fallen asleep.
OK.Then I'll be expecting you.
Well, my family's away and I can't afford to do much.What about you?
We have three dressings for salad. Which one would you like?
Are you sure you want me to cut it that short?
Yes. Can I see that T-shirt on the top shelf please?
A group of students from the art and music faculty are producing a short film.
Well, I thought that I would choose either this one or that one. I really want a dark blue suit. Which do you recommend.
Where's Bill? The ambassador is already here. The meeting is set to start at 9 am.
That ’ s expensive, but I need you.
It is common practice to offer and then have a counter-offer.
Fine, We'll do that.
You're right! I will call him this weekend and meet him.
I am a fireman and it is a dangerous job. I have to consider your mother's life.
All these should be enough. Good luck!
Why do some guys like to drive so fast when they are drunk?
Yes, it's very lightweight. But I don't want this aluminum handle.
It's a luminous watch with a time-reminder function.
Not every day, but occasionally.
Yeah.It is the very latest in digital video cameras.
ok, here you go. That will be 18 pounds and seventy two pence.
Yes, most of them. We trained on a dummy system last month. A couple of people were away so we've organised two more training sessions on the live system for the whole team this week.
Wow! Is it a good car?
I'm a bank manager.
what kind of music do you like listening to?
Well, all right. But you make sure to tie up loose ends before you leave.
Of course. It's common too that we wear something special for our Chinese New Year.
It's instructive and inspiring.
Yes. An iguana is too strange for a gift, and a tie is too normal.So I have to find something halfway between.
So uncle Bill's wife is Jane's mother but not Sarah's mother. Right?
Was it your first time?
I just stayed at home and watched TV.
How do you do?
What? Why? What's wrong with you?
Yes, we would like to make things like key chains, plastic pencil sharpeners, plastic rulers, watches, wallets, things like that.Little accessories for young people. But the reason these will sell is the logo.Just like Hello Kitty.
Oh, yeah. Here you go.
You ’ re welcome. I ’ ll see you tomorrow at 2 00.
I don ’ t think so. As the saying goes, A great oak needs deep roots. I ’ m really interested in this job.
Why do you think you ’ re the right candidate for this position?
Excuse me. I don't think we have met before. My name is Mary Jenson.
Quite well. I took the National English Speaking Contest in CCTV 2008 and I got first place.
The best product is Techne, and you can buy either the lotion or cream.
Oh, really? Were you not caught?
Great. I'll see you on Saturday.
Okay, more relaxed. Got it. Hey, Sally, what ' s up? It's Tracy here, just.
I'm too fat for a bikini.
No, he's perfectly harmless. And he's not afraid of strangers either. Here, hold him.
Why do you think so many people have their applications rejected?
Well, I've been very busy recently and I'm having trouble keeping up to date with everything, so I just wondered what exact service you offer.
You mother is not only a patient mother but also a gentle wife.
All right, I see what you mean.
We've a country house.
Do you think your English is good enough to do office work?
yes, there is a lot of to be taken care of---wedding photos, wedding dress, catering, transport, hotel, etc...
Maybe. But if there's a blackout, probably the pubs are closed.And besides, I know you have a political science exam tomorrow. I thought you had a lot of reading to do.
That ’ s true. We had an argument yesterday. She blamed me for not preparing the supper that day, but it was her turn to cook the dinner.
Did you ever get your bus pass?
Your English has really improved in the two months you've been here, too.
Yes, I want to deposit 1000 Yuan in my bank account.
That'll be twelve pounds.
Most people like football. More boys like football than girls. A few girls play it really well. Some people like playing basketball.
I am going to resign. A few of the new staff have already left. Obviously, a lot of similar jobs pay much better salaries.
Great! Pick me up in about an hour because I think I ’ ll also get a bean bag and a dining set.
I'd like to try some kebab, roasted squid, and many different appealing things.
You're complaining again.
Yes, I don't want to be stuck in a rut. I want to move on.
John made out with other girls at the party yesterday.
Oh, certainly.When would you like to come?
Thank you very much indeed.You helped me rebuild my self-confidence.
What time is now? Do you have the correct time?
Christmas has more religious nature, while our Spring Festival is a more traditional holiday. On the New Year's Eve, we have a big dinner called ' Family Reunion Dinner '. One of the traditional food to eat at the dinner is dumplings. After that, the adults usually sit chatting, watching TV, or playing cards.
David, do you think we are lucky to have the weekend?
I really feel great shame. Let me buy a new one for you.
Really? Me, too. What's your favorite flavor?
Don't worry, do it step by step.
No, just come here.
It's a huge headache. I have no idea what I want to do.
You just take them with you and trade them with the used textbook man just outside the door. Do you think you will be going there today?
Well, we give each of our customers a personal trainer who is qualified. And he will give you a fitness assessment and then come up with the work-out plan for your needs.
I like autumn, too. Where I'm from, Autumn is the best time of year.
Oh, that means I can do whatever I like without few interruptions.
Right now fight BW159 is the only one available, it is a non-direct one.
What kind of references do you need?
ok. There're vacancies. Since the peak season is coming, it's advisable to book soon. Would you like to make a reservation now?
I don't care. You know better than to hit him. Go sit on your bed for 10 minutes.
Unfortunately, no. If you want a trainer, you'll have to use another gym.
It's 500 dollars, not including ground transportation fares between the airport and downtown.
Do you like it there?
You'd have a revolution on your hands if you tried to introduce that sort of system here.
I don ’ t mean to interrupt, but can you tell me what plans you have for growing the youth market?
Actually the general manager is regarded as a baby doll. He has much sympathy.
The total is 87 dollars. Here is the bill.
They are puzzles. It's a tradition to solve the puzzles on the lanterns during the Lantern Festival.
Good morning. I ’ m Liu Yi, from China XYZ Company. We have an appointment with Mr. Thomas.
I guess I asked the wrong person.
Sure, follow me.
For the wedding?
I came to your store yesterday and have come back today to make a final decision. I think I like the black leather suite. It's on sale, isn't it.
Just hold me... I ’ ll always be here for you, no matter what. And together, we can tackle whatever life throws at us. I believe in us, steven.
I ’ d like a coffee please.
I ’ Ve often wondered the same thing. I also wonder who reads them. Then I realize that I ’ m standing here reading them myself.
Here's the dress you wanted it to be made.
there is a large canyon, vast grasslands, ancient forests and mountain lakes.
Wow! This was a lot easier than I thought!
Great. Let's go!
Oh, i nearly forget it.
You were really lucky.
just don't understand why we have to take the subway. Look at this place. It's modern enough. But it's far from lively.
I feel terrible, but I've just broken your ashtray.
At nine sharp.
Hi, my name is Pete. You are Ann. Isn't that right?
Like for example, if I hadn ’ t studied architecture, I would have become an artist like I wanted to.
Long-distance race, dash, hurdle race, relay race, standing long jump, high jump, shotput and so on.
How do you like it?
I think modern painting means nothing.
I didn't do that well either. I ended up with a 3.2 this semester. That drops my total GPA to 3.45.
You shouldn ’ t be nervous about that.
This is a pity!
Yeah, it's hard to believe but true.
Yes, and could you write down anything you might be having trouble with?
Thank you. Could you tell me the specials today?
I want to take a look at that home with the Open House flags out front.
My sister.She is going to her in-law's house this year.
This city is really comfortable to live in.
But a Chinese person would never order that.
Here's 30. Keep the change.
Really? It almost looks brand new. And the color designs are so retro.
No, thank you.They are already tagged with my name and address.
That doesn't justify your violation. May I see your licence, please?
All right, miss.This one is very hot. I'll come to turn it off in fifteen minutes.Will that be alright?
I'm on my way.
Wow, isn't that dangerous?
I am sorry Sir. We won't give any discount in busy seasons.The price is the same.
I like the design of the coat.
Well sir, our sales have dropped, no plunged, fifty percent in the past month alone. We are currently overstocked and overstaffed and our profits refalling fast. The market is in recession and we have no way of moving our inventory, or getting rid of our staff. If we consider redundancies, it would cost us a fortune because of the new regulations governing compensation packages. It’s a real mess.
How long do you think she'll be?
Can you give us an example?
How do you want your egg cooked?
Of course, here you are, sir.
I don't care what others wear. How much is it?
What building is it in?
Did you send in your Continued Claim Form for the last period?
Ok, sure. When did you have in mind?
I'd be glad to. Do you need anything else?
Good. I totally agree with what you did.
Late in the afternoon, after work.
I see. Well, can I have a look at your phone? Unfortunately, this phone can ’ t be used in the US, It’s not compatible with our 3G network.
Wow! It's a fruit sculpture! Your chef is a real artist!
I'll have whatever you're having.
We have a great variety of magazines all about cooking! This one for example, is a bi monthly publication with recipes from all over the world!
You do? Who?
Promise you are not going to be angry?
Does he do that with his Dad? I mean, does he complain things to his father?
Don ’ t you know they have had little affection for each other?
No, I haven ’ t been back for more than ten years.
I need $ 300.
Excuse me. Does this bus go by Tiananmen square?
Don ’ t complain about it. She is concerned about your safety.
What was your problem?
Yes, and I have already gone through the safety inspection.
Do you have a lot of clothes that need to be washed?
we can buy a three-liter bottle. It works out cheaper per liter. We should buy a packet of butter and a few pints of milk too.
Thursday mornings are usually the slowest around here. Why don ’ t we set it for Thursday at 10:00 a. m.?
I told you we should have stayed in town today.The weather report said 100 percent chance of snow.Why did you want to come up here?
Oh, hi, Tom. How've you been?
Which team has won?
Sun-set hotel. May I help you?
Rice, egg, beef and vegetables.
Don't be such a chicken! Whoever loses has to treat everyone to a movie.
Well, every stamp has a story to tell.
Let me see. Wash the cabbage over there.
Ours are of really good quality.
I bet. Why not go over and talk to her? She's really nice.
Are the ceremony and reception held in the same place?
Ok. What about this one?
I've entertained the idea. But I'm I leaning more toward politics.
shall we dance?
We still have to do about ten more.
Oh, yes. It's amazing here. I don't think I ever want to go home again!
You've got so many cousins. I called you later that night. But you didn't have the guts to answer the phone.
Sounds good. Thanks.
You like going to bed early?
I'd be willing to try this hotel again, if you can promise me no more cockroaches.
His grandfather's money is not his.
Here are our F. O. B. price lists. All the prices in the lists are subject to our confirmation.
This can ’ t wait! I need your help now!
Whew! I got the last one. This must be my lucky day!
My hair stood on end when I saw the bloody scene.
Do you have any problem during the process? You should speed things up.
Not exactly. The scam keeps on going, with the people at the bottom paying more and more money until they reach the very bottom.
What does it come with standard?
Yes, uh... I put it in the front of my sociology notebook. Oh, here it is.
But I won't let you do that. I will watch you.
Yes. Do you have a pharmacy here, please?
When can we expect your confirmation of the order?
Hum... You should try the mushroom fettucine. It's really good.
OK.Here is your change.The train leaves on platform 8.
The touchdown lines are there and there. OK, let's play!
All right, Elizabeth. But this is the last time.
If you'd like further information on this, there ’ s a guidebook in several languages on sale at the information desk.
Are you going to go right away?
Yes, what are your hours?
Here's your change. Thank you.
No, Frank. I'm much more interested in collecting stamps now.
You're a nurse at New York General Hospital?
I did reporting for the university newspaper in my school.And I always be very interested in journalism.
It is really a hard nut to crack. The problem is that the crime was done without leaving any trace.
Yeah, what's up?
If you consider our high research costs and excellent quality, the price we are asking is only reasonable.
No, it's easy. We'll just take the shirt back to the men ’ s department and show them the sales slip. They'll exchange it for the correct size or give you a refund.
Can you tell me more?
So what kinds of dishes do you usually make? I know you like Italian food.
Sword, say it ' sword '.
Of course. It's just at 19 Lingual Road. You can phone me again if you can't find the right place.
Employees are covered by worker's compensation insurance.
Kobe is a good player but I heard he is a womanizer.
I agree, but the maintenance team is fully stretched dealing with problems. We don't have time to carry out any preventive maintenance.
Let's go take a look at it. Do you have your ID with you?
You better stop slacking off.
That permit will run twenty-five dollars ; will that be cash or credit card?
no, I haven ’ t. I can ’ t think of anything to get him.
I am 24.
Well, the internet isn't down, so there must be something wrong with your connection.
yes. Her parents were raising money to have her treated in the united states.
Please file all the reports for me.
Perfect. Couldn't be better!
I'm afraid I have to leave. I have to be up early tomorrow.
Jane, Susan, Pete and two colleagues of mine from work.
Well, we offer 5 grades as standard
I'm going to sweep the floor first.
Yes, we bought veal sandwiches. We stopped around twelve, and we ate and watched the squirrels, but it was too windy to sit long. It was a very nice walk, anyway.
Did you know we're trying to talk him into considering a presidential campaign?
Well, I guess if you are Sigrid and Roy you can keep a tiger or lion. I guess all types of things don't they.
I think money will make me happy.
I see. Well, don't forget to talk to the college counselor at the school. He usually gives good advice and can help point you in the right direction. He gave me some information, and next week I'm going to take a look at some of the colleges he recommended.
Oh, how did you deal with it?
Not rally. 200 years ago, it was just a small insignificant village.
No, not really, there's just a lot of blood.
Ok. I guess we ’ d be not do that, either, then. What do you want to do?
How would your present boss describe you?
Yes, I have been invited by the East Import & Export Corporation of China for business talks.
Brothers? Do you know why they quarreled?
That's OK. I can get it from you later.
Yeah, you are right.
Hey, two for one. That's a super deal.
If I were you, I would take a few days to take care of those things before you move in.
Oh, just one thing, could you give me some ideas of the pay?
Do you have a registration card?
How did you feel at the very beginning?
Oh? What ’ s wrong?
Mary sings much better than Susan, doesn't she?
Would you please recommend a diamond for me?
My polling place is up the street at the park.
We'll go to the place. Could you book a table for 4 at 7 PM?
My name is Deng Li.
Sure, you still have my contact details, right?
Do you have your library card?
Are you ready for the camping trip?
So that concludes the introduction. Now let's move to the first part of my talk, which is about 2006 fiscal year marketing plan. So first, right off the bat, When looking at the marketing plan, tell me some of the goals that we had set this year to begin with...
You're going out of your way for us, I believe.
Maybe he's abnormal.
Me too. I'll talk to you later.
That's a good idea. We can improve our technology to meet your special need.
Anything is worth a try. But right now I really just want to find a quiet place to take a nap.
You sound like a seafood expert. I would like to have some stir-fried squids and steamed shrimps.
If I have time, I will come again.
Yes. Thanks. You can move your stuff in tomorrow.
And I've checked the orders.
Thank you so much. Does he read his e-mails daily?
I'm afraid there has been a mistake.
It certainly is. Do you have your contract and Import License?
I don ’ t know till now.
That's fine. Maybe you should be more careful.
Of course. Just give me your fax number.
I prefer one facing the sea. Besides, it should have a shower.
What are the roses going for?
Oh, bathroom blues.
I can read the subtitles.My set is a huge-screen one.
Good evening. Do you have a reservation?
What makes you think you would be a success in this position?
I hope you do. And keep in touch, OK?
No. It wasn't the super bargain I thought it was.
That's great! Thanks for your help.
I love stir fry crispy bitesize vegetables covered in a mixture of soy sauce and oyster sauce. Wilted greens and fresh bean sprouts. Throw in some onion and garlic and ginger! Mmm! Mmm! It’s almost lunchtime. I would die for a plate of stir fry right now!
I think that about one hundred words are enough.
OK then, I will make the arrangements for them to attend. Do you know how to get there?
Sure. Sounds great. Let's go.
Nowadays, it's no difference from America. But in old times, we have traditional ways to celebrate it.
That sounds great. Where should we meet?
Have you ever been in an earthquake?
Emily, what kind of report is this?
We'd like to take a tour to Florence.
Regrettably, Mr. Sandals, we accept only MasterCard or VISA.
I want a doggy bag, waiter.
Of course. Please sign your name here.
It's Nugent, N-U-G-E-N-T, but just call me Ted.
Nice and easy. Just give it a little gas.
When I have a specific project to complete, I like to know the specifics of a project from beginning to end. I like definite deadlines and I like to meet those deadlines. I expect some deviation from the original plan, but I try to stay focused and not let myself drift too far. I have great attention to detail and like to take my time and do it right the first time.
Let's close the deal at $ 4800, OK?
I said by the middle of October. This is the best we can promise.
Even though I really like it, it's just too modern for me.
C'mon, Yi-jun. It's lots of fun. You've seen football played on TV.
Selling yourself should go straight to the point, and the statement should be clear and brief.
Oh, I see. Could you please split the one thousand Renminbi into hundreds and tens?
After the meals. And do not forget to take two sleeping pills before going to bed.
Forget about him. Come over to my house tonight. Let's get drunk.
some time next year. We haven't set the date yet.
I am sorry, we will connect with the room service.Please Warta moment.
I can't forget it.
I like spring because flowers bloom and trees grow leaves again. In spring, the weather is very changeable-sometimes cold, sometimes warm. It’s usually windy with some rain. Autumn is usually sunny an
good morning, Gav! Did you sleep well last night?
My goodness! Are you OK?
We have express service as well. It charges 30 % more but I assure your coat will be ready tomorrow morning.
I am. Don ’ t worry about getting your wallet. It’s my treat.
Thanks a lot. What I ’ ll do si find out more online and drop by next week.
Please help yourself at your dishes. I hope you ’ ll enjoy what you ’ Ve got.
Would you like a home near the lake or would you prefer a view?
Yes, I ’ m sure.
I think so, because most young people like modern dances, such as rock and roll.
That's right.The number forty-four doesn't stop here any more.It ' s stop is round the corner.
Yes, I had a wonderful time.
I don ’ t know how to deal with Jack. He is indeed a trouble maker. He has louse up my business several times.
Anything valuable in it?
I don't think so. I took it with me when I went out this morning.
Right, drink as much as you can.
Yeah. He's known as a sly dog. He's done many people in.
Voting is easy.
David, I ’ m going to China.
Like this one?
I'm sorry, but can you give me a three-day turnaround?
That ’ s great news!
How do you spell your last name?
Single. How much?
Hmm, that ’ s a tough question. But I would have to say my passion. I ’ m really passionate about journalism and passionate about my career.
Well, what is your trouble?
Good. Are you going to the pub tonight?
No problem. Call me when you get back.
No.May I help you?
I was fired last week.
Sorry, but I'm not really that interested in those things.
I know, but it was a celebration, you Kwon? I don ’ t think I ’ Ve see you drunk.
Just sign here, please.
yeah. Mixed marriage is tempting but crisis-ridden.
Here is my international driver's license. What kinds of cars do you have?
Are you sure you cann't remember?
And we ’ re on the brink of soccer history today, as Ecuador and Brazil are tied one-one as we begin the second half of the 2022 World Cup!
Do you have a good psychological resilience?
In a perfect world, I would enjoy my work if I do not have to do much, and make lots of money!
So, Fred, what are your plans for after graduation?
maybe you should consider going to a hot springs resort outside of Beijing. I heard they are very relaxing.
Oh, that ’ s easy. Go to yahoo.com. Now, click on the link with the picture of an envelope.
Let me check the stock. How about this one?
Do you have any blue shirts?
Why not? What about us doing it right now?
Sure. How many copies do you need?
Good! I'm interested in your advice.
These are from Guatemala, but we're going to start getting mangoes from India.
Mary, you're going to have to work on your pronunciation.
We'd like to be seated at 8p m.
Yes, it's fast. But four minutes is enough to do fifty thousand dollars damage.
That's all right. When you come, ask for Smith, OK?
Sure. It's a popular e-card website.
Do you know much about computers?
I think I need a new notebook.
Mostly office work - filing and so on.
How do you prefer this one? It cleans thoroughly without striping your natural protective oil. The gentle formula keeps skin soft and healthy.
What's step two?
I usually get a lot of information on the computer and use E-mail to send messages to my friends.
I have a really bad toothache! My cheek is swollen and I can ’ t eat anything.
Now please wait until your flight is called. There are about twenty-five minutes to go.
Oh, this one is perfect.
I ’ ll tell you all you need to know.
Did the police find who did it?
What did you want to order?
Yes, we are very proud of her.
I'm sorry, we only sell at fixed prices.
No, I am afraid we don't.
That's right. I could stand to lose a few pounds, too.
We offer packages with all the movie channels.
Oh, cheer up! A girlfriend is not everything.
For almost two years.
Mr. Smith, while you're out, the sales department called and asked you to lunch next Wednesday.
Good morning madam. What can I get you?
I got fired.
Watch out! It's dark over there.
Good afternoon, Mr. Dome ’ s office.
Yeah, I was hoping you'd say that. It's nice to have the option to go out but I'd rather stay in. Maybe we can go out tomorrow night.
Who plays who?
That doesn't really sound like something I would be interested in. In any case, I just wash my face every night and use sunscreen during the day.
To visit our supplier?
Oh, I am really sorry.
Want to send out for some Chinese?
I can't believe it! I lost.
make sure you buy what you need and your clothes can be worn for various occasions.
6:30. My room number is 305.
Autumn is the best season in Beijing you know?
The price varies according to the seats. 300 for the front, 200 for the middle, and 50 for the back.
I also agree with all his policies.
There is a new movie at the mall that I want to see. Want to go with me?
Do you want it boiled, grilled, or microwaved?
Ok. I will wait until you have had your fun, if that's what you want.
Hi, my name is Tom.
Sorry, madam. We don't have vacancies at the moment.
We have white toast, whole wheat toast and rye toast.
Yes. We ’ re having a special sale on this machine here.
Yes, I have. Perhaps I should go to the gym, like that girl ’ s boyfriend.
You will get it in a few weeks.
He says he'll write a letter soon. He hopes we are all well. Love, Jimmy.
That's right.After their school day is over, they go to a special institute to study math or English.They are very serious about learning over there.
I am not. she is no picnic.
Well, it's made up of four large islands and many smaller islands located off the coast of the Asian main lands. France isn't an island, is it?
From the numbers, it seems like Forest Inc. is our digest competitor... Le'Ban and Markford are also major contenders in our market.
I didn't know you had such wild friends. Do you smoke marijuana too?
The list goes on and on. Here, this is a bill for five thousand dollars for spa treatments!
Sure. This is the one I will not hesitate to recommend. Its color and style is so attractive and also the quality is really reliable.
It's twice as big as my room in Taiwan!
She will be OK. She is a tough cookie.
It’s a very cool job.
But we're going to spend so much money in furnishing and decorating. I think we could get a much cheaper place that's already furnished.
By the way, are you going to the concert tomorrow?
Yes. I want a first class single ticket.
I am also impressed with the lines in the movie.
Here's a list with a few things that I need you to get.
I need to go to the police station.
That China-gown of Tang-Dynasty style is so beautiful. Would you show it to me, please?
It isn ’ t too much.
Yes, if you think it will help.
You are cooking at least two hours earlier than the usual.
Sorry, I've got people coming over tomorrow night.
Look at the long line, there are always a lot of people waiting in lines just for the cheese burger. It must be very delicious.
I've prepared some L / C documents, all in accordance with the conditions. There shouldn't be any problems ; I've done about a million of these things recently.
Well, I guess I could give you one more chance, but this is the last time.In themeantime, I hear that Tom who normally does night shift is taking three weeks ' vacation, Can you think of anyone who would be willing to work nights while he is gone?
We have tickets for the matinee. It starts at 3p. m.
About two months. I didn't pay much attention to it in the beginning, but you see, I got fired this morning. I dozed off while we were having an important meeting, right in front of the boss. I was very embarrassed.
That is a lot of friends. Do you have a best friend?
I'd like to. See you then.
Thank you very much. I will introduce your property to our clients. When they want to see your property, I will give you a call.
We may go abroad, my wife wants to go to Egypt, and I'd like to go there too. We haven't made up our mind yet.
Good evening, Yanking Restaurant.
Take a seat inside and see what you think.So you will take the Porsche then, sir?
how much are you looking to spend?
This one is especially built for hard, continuous play. And every detail of workmanship and material has been carefully checked to make it a dependable one for tournament use.
If this coat doesn't fit, may I bring it back later?
Whatever! I'm glad to learn something of Chinese kung fu. Thanks for asking me.
Will, I'm under a lot of pressure. My manager is very pushy. He assigned me two projects. Now the deadlines are near but I have finished neither of them.
No, I don't hear anything.
Hi, I was wondering how I'd go about getting a credit card.
The special today is steak.
Hi, I ’ m Susan.What ’ s your name, please?
Take it easy. Be confident. I'm sure you can do it.
No problem at all. To tell you the truth, I could use the extra time in my schedule to catch up on some paperwork.
No problem. Pick me up something to eat too, please.
Sorry sir.We can't. Cash only.
24th? I have time. But I can't wait that long, I'm dying to see you. Let's make another time.
I'm planning on going to the market soon.
If you take out the garbage and do the dishes, I'll think about it.
Of course, something could come up and stop that wish coming true.
let's watch the Canadian team. They have a good manager and a great coach.
Thanks, that's very kind of you to say. I hope my necklace goes with my dress, and they both make me look good I feel.
I ’ ll be happy to get him something special, even if it coasts a little extra.
I saw her husband have it out with her yesterday.
Do you like our new history teacher?
Well, then, would you send it to Japan, please?
why not? it's so cool.
Terrific, that's a wonderful movie, I like it very much. Can I get tickets now for tomorrow?
You ’ re pulling my leg! She must be thirty years younger than Leo. Talk about robbing the cradle!
I want to be a vet.
I can ’ t believe the cost of apartments in New York City.
Are there any other cities where it's always hot?
It's very inexpensive, and it has all the appliances.
Working with my colleagues, we were able to increase the production efficiency by 5 %.
A bottle of glue.
I'm really sorry. I'll face the music.
I ’ m a firefighter.
Do you think that there is something magical about that place?
that ’ s right. I work extremely hard, and try my best to adapt to the lifestyle here, but I don ’ t feel any sense of belonging here.
That will be great. So It’s two weeks from tomorrow, same time and place. I ’ m really sorry to do this to you.
Well, I love it. The room is special and clean with big windows and a lot of sunshine. There are plants along the corridor. Especially, I got my own desk with computer and telephone. Such a great place!
Are you scheduling a check-up, or are you ill?
We ’ re going to the bookshop. Would you like to join us?
What ’ s your major weak point?
They look fake.
We also have waterfalls in the mountains. They make the landscapes look very scenic. The landscape has been shapes by millions of years of erosion, especially by water.
Alright. Mr. Cook, I have Mr. baker called you back as soon as he gets here.
Let's see.How do you feel about playing bridge?
Everything's going to be on sale next weekend.
Hmm. I have the same problem. When I leave work, It’s always rush hour.So the buses are always crowded.
What are your annual salary requirements?
I have things to do.
So how much should I gamble?
Yeah... me, too.
perhaps it would be better if you started taking public transport system to work.
We would stay longer. but I've got to attend a meeting tomorrow morning. Thank you for your warm hospitality.
I see. By the way, should I write the educational background starting from elementary school?
Would you like to make another appointment?
That's fine. What about operating the fax and duplicator?
Mr. Carter has asked me to come over to invite you to the banquet held in your honor at the Shangri-La Hotel at 7:00 this evening. Here's an invitation for you.
Well, I'd like to, but I am not sure I have time.
What would you have?
I would like you to fix the problem.
Really? What's that?
What do you do now?
What did that have to do with me? I'm not the self-seeker like you.
Alright. I'm sorry, Miss. According to our file, this prescription has already been refilled twice.
Oh, I see. Do you advise me to buy one?
Actually, we are famous for our Cuervo Gold margaritas.
More physical exercise may help to keep your weight down.
Could you teach me how to drive?
Mine aren't so good, either.
Isn't it time for dinner?
You can say that again. The sunny shining and there ’ s pleasant raise. It’s so lovely
thanks doctor. I ’ ll get these immediately. Goodbye.
Well, welcome to our country. I trust you are having a pleasant stay?
It sure is.
What ’ s the Mountaineering Club doing this weekend?
I know. I didn ’ t eat any, but a few people in our group did and no one got sick.
I prefer the food at Whole Foods.
I would love to catch a movie this weekend.
I am, sir.
I must have taken a wrong turn.
Nathan said he didn't have any fun at his new school this week. Do you know why?
No. I just like looking at wedding rings, OK?
Well, I thought it was $ 83.
Yeah, I know. But you? I always thought you were only good at lifting beer bottles to your mouth.
What is the matter with him?
You should just ask the bus driver for a transfer.
excuse me? How can I get to the nearest branch of the national bank?
And if people drop them, they won ’ t break. We ’ ll need to buy some buns to make hot dogs and hamburgers.
the best job? What do you mean?
Thanks, June. But I think I need to be certified as a mechanic before I ’ m allowed to repair cars for a living.
Family members usually get together on the Eve of the New Year and have a special dinner to celebrate. Relatives and friends often visit each other during the holiday to wish each other a happy new year.
No problem. I ’ ll have the covering LC opened as soon as I wetback. In addition, would you tell me by whom the commodity inspection is conducted before shipment?
Dad, you've been driving for three hours. Why don't we have a switch?
Listening carefully can show you understand and respect the speaker.
I'll get my finals in two months.
Yeah. We are lucky. Let's go buy the tickets first. We can have breakfast later. I am so hungry.
Bobby! Come here, look what I got you!
Yes, my friend Steve. I'll introduce you.
I want to buy one of those snack things.
When could I take care of him?
I'm Mary Kell. May I ask your name?
What about the quality?
I think he favors the host team.
Well, the books are in the box. What can I do now?
Why do you want to be a teacher?
Could I have a look at it first?
The meeting really didn ’ t go down well at all. I think I need to read up about intercultural communication before I have another meeting with someone from another country.
Nobody has told me anything about your party.
This my new phone thing is so sus.
No, I transferred here.
Maybe we can make reservations ahead of time?
And here is your birthday present.
That ’ s all right. We ’ ll teach you.
I don't have an aspirin. Perhaps you should go to a doctor.
I have a friend. He is my best friend and he wants to learn English. He would pay about 100 yuan per hour. Are you interested?
Oh really, what kind of fruit do you like?
Exactly how much do I owe?
Okay, I'll take one.
All right. Our insurance coverage is 110 % of the invoice value, up to the port of destination only.
I shared a prize with some friends last week. We won a bottle of whisky at a pub quiz.
Shall we need at one fifteen this Thursday?
To me English is a difficult language.
Does 6 thirty suit you?
Oh, Mary. You've surprised me!
My roommate ’ s having a party.
What have you been doing for the past two years?
I work in a cubicle too, but I I don ’ t mind it.
How are you doing, Andrew?
If you totally agree, I'll type the agreement this evening and have it duplicated for signatures.
Yes, I would like a vodka gimlet, please.
What kind is it?
Is there a waterfall?
Yes, he does. He often has had one to many. But I advised him not to drink too much, he just boasted that he had hollow legs and nobody had ever drunk him under the table.
Well, in addition, you can schedule an appointment with a job counselor on this list. If you would like to do that, sign here, OK?
Hello. floor service, can I help you?
Wait a minute... do you have an account with us?
All right. Just wait a minute, OK?
Is it your first time to join the sports meeting of Junior High School?
Everyone in my family really enjoys playing card games.
well, Jerry, let me tell you a secret.
I don't have a TV at home, so I rarely watch anything. Is there anything worth watching after the office?
We need you to send a deposit for 1/3 of the bill. You can send the check, or you can use the credit card.
You ’ re going to set up your own law office, aren ’ t you?
Oh, that's difficult to say. But I guess I liked Nashville the best.
What is the best place to park?
How can I help you today?
Yes, but I want to go to the country.
Conrad Reeves, the actor? It can ’ t be. Let me have another look. I think you ’ re right! Isn ’ t he her third husband?
What happens if we make a deal and thirty to sixty days after delivery the price goes down and you didn't get the best possible price? How do I handle that?
Do you mean to say that I can open a letter of credit in yen with a bank in London or Bonn?
Good. Fortune is usually ahead of the curve.And Business Week is very solid, too.
Sounds not bad! You know, the only thing I worried about is the safety. I ’ m not an active exerciser and my muscle may be not strong enough for such an intense sport.
How do you choose which companies to work with?
Yet in writing, George has nothing on Frank.
I would be willing to put in a different color carpet if you pay the price difference.
64 pounds, please.
Only one, please.
A few of the graphic designers are a bit behind in their work because of computer problems.
No need. I think it's still plenty full. Even so, I'd rather travel by bus or train. It would cost much less than driving. Oil prices are soaring nowadays, you know.
Would I help you with writing?
OK. I can afford to take a fell days off work.
Sounds good. The food there is fantastic, too.
What about the other class?
They suddenly become shy when they speak to boys.
Sorry, Sir, but it's 5 working days. This does not include weekends, so your card should be with you later this week.
And it must be very particular in cooking.
Play is stopped when the person with the ball is touched.
Well, are there any other advantages?
A quarter past five.
You are welcome! We are neighbors!
Hi, Mary, It’s been a long time
In this pamphlet it says that the minimum amount for deductibles is $ 2000. what does that mean exactly?
If your son wants to study film, probably he will start to collect movies himself.
Have you booked the hotel for the reception?
We'll start our payment in half a year and the total amount will be paid off within 2 years by three installments.
Wow! That's a fantastic movie!
Yeah, It’s a couple weeks away, and we don ’ t have anything yet.
Are you sure you can't remember?
They are so beautiful. I love them, and I love you too.
Okay, you ' re booked on American Airlines flight 710, departing JFK at 6:40 p. m. on September 17th. Your return flight is flight 711, departing London ' s Heathrow Airport at 11:15 a. m. on September 28th.
Don't worry about it.Your sister lives there. She probably knows the places in town you shouldn't go.It ' s true there are some dangerous places in big American cities.But if your sister lives there, she must know the city pretty well already.
Fine! Let ’ s get a bird then! We can keep it in its cage and teach it to talk! A parrot would be awesome!
Why do you worry about your future? You're very young, and you'll make great contribution to the world. I hope you take my advice.
I was wondering if someone in your office could help me with a question I have about my payment.
Dear Anna. I really love you.
Ha! She is too little.
Do you know if the parking structure is full or not?
You can start by meeting her at the bus stop and saying ' hello ' to her.
Well, how about our own hotel restaurant? It's conveniently located and has a three-star rating.
The toner has run out and there's none in the stationery cupboard.
Terrific! When are you moving in?
These machines aren't very difficult to use. In fact, I quite like them. They are much faster than dealing with a band clerk.
Good luck on your test tomorrow. We'll be crossing our fingers for you!
It keeps running all the time, never stopping. And it makes a strange sound. All the ice cream inside it melted.
I will. Don't worry!
Wow, that must have really been scary.
Does your present employer know you are looking for another job?
Good. Let's call it a deal. We'll do our best to advance the shipment to September. The chances are that some of the other orders may be cancelled. But of course you cannot count on that. In any case, we'll let you know by email.
How much does a six-day tour by train cost?
Come on. Let ’ s talk heart to heart. I think we can find a solution.
No, I thought that would be included in the rent.
But that makes thirteen people! We can't have thirteen people for dinner on Friday!
They will arrive the next morning, at 8: 00 a. m. and 10:00 a m. respectively.
Hang out the clothes.
I was inquiring about a bill that I never got.
With my experience, I'd like to start at 3,000 RIB per month.
That's what i did in America. I was reading all the time. I was never a big TV watcher. TV wastes time.
What are all the symptoms?
Yes, I do. I ’ ll walk you there.
We could always wait for the next bus to come.
Interesting. That ’ s very different from the Chinese education system.
We are on the way to the Wall Street.
Round about seven.
Was I? Sorry, I didn't mean to be. I do apologize.
I want to set up an interview for you at 9 a. m. next Monday in our company's conference room.
Look, there are some words on the fish.
Let me check and look at the map. Yes, there is an exit three quarters of a mile ahead. We ’ ll exit Market Street, head west, then get on the Pennsylvania Freeway.
Why are you being so nice to me? Don't think for a second that I trust you.
Thanks. It's comfortable. Well, how much is it, please?
A minimum of 75,000 per year.
Do I have to sand every inch of the table?
Alright, then, with this chequing account you ’ ll be issued a debit card and a cheque book. Will you require overdraft protection? There is an extra fee for that.
Won ’ t you come in, Mr. Barker?
I'd like to speak with the apartment manager, please.
I'm returning a cellphone.
Come here at once, John. Will you?
Do you have a benefits brochure?
Thanks very much. I ’ m sure it will sell well. I can ’ t wait to read it. Here ’ s my card. Thank you for you time.
Oh I hope not, my first marriage was a mistake, but this one isn ’ t.
you said it. You know, they fall in love at first sight and quickly jumped into marriage.
do you speak Spanish?
Do you enjoy your work?
Does he watch a lot of movies?
Hello, IBA Bank, how can I help you?
Nobody exercises any more-not even kids! The average American home has the TV on for 6 hours a day!
actually, I mostly just listen classical music. What about you?
He was messing around last week in class.
If I ’ m better this afternoon, can I go to school?
Oh, Dad. Do I have to get up right now?
That's fine. Do you have any specials for your guests?
Yes precisely. Although I was born in the US, I would definitely call London home. But as you see I ’ Ve actually spent a lot of my life moving from country to country. My Father was in the oil business before he retired so we also spent a number of years in Saudi Arabia too.
I've never had one person that I'd idolized. The comparisons to Jul-ia Roberts are incredibly flattering. I don't really know who I would compare myself to. I'd like to be a combination of a lot of people. A little bit of everything, really. I haven't quite figured out where my strengths are yet, and I've definitely found my weaknesses.
Excuse me, can you tell me where central Park Street is?
Yeah, but that's human nature.
Did you go and buy your bus pass?
By warming up before and cooling down after your workout.
That ’ s true, but still the Herald lists some jobs the Globe doesn ’ t have.
You look so upset. What's going on?
Tell me what the problem is.
Oh, isn't your computer Wi-Fi capable?
Double rooms with twin beds.
Look, darling! I can see a bench near that tree.
What about tomorrow evening?
You look happy.
Well. I think that the most amazing performances are by athletes who participate in the Paralympics.
Here we are this is my favorite place.
Just make yourself at home. The other guests should be arriving shortly.
A cup of coffee, please, with cream and sugar.
You ’ re right. I love going out and making new friends.
Can you sing the song?
Hey, Ted. What are you up to this Friday?
I don't see anything wrong with what we're doing! That's just the problem. In these kind of things, the trouble doesn't always appear at first.
Yes, there's that bar we passed an hour ago.
Until you pay it, you can ’ t check out books.
I need some stamps.
It seems that English already is the main global language. Does the article suggest that there should be an artificial language like Esperanto as the world language.
Ok, sign here.
Uh, actually, I've gone twice this week.
At your service. Will this suit you?
You seem to be upset. What ’ s eating you?
That sounds great. Thanks.
Can you go there with me? I'd like someone who is familiar with that area to go with me.
25 dollars. Do you think that's enough?
What do you think would be the right amount to leave for a tip?
Doctor Lin's Office.
I see. One ticket to London, please.
Yes, maybe. The ad in the newspaper said you wanted the resume, a cover letter, and two letters of recommendation. I included those things in the envelope. Is there anything else I should send?
that's good advice. Have you ever tried taking vitamins?
Well, you are right. Is there anything else?
That sounds OK. I'll need it from the 10th to the 14th.
I'm afraid not. Every coin has two sides. I think using internet has a great deal to do with human interaction.
How terrible! This is quite unexpected!
Do you find that one works better than the other?
Is there any special brand you'd like?
I feel chilly and I've got a pain in my abdomen.
Do you mean there is no way to get any foreign money?
Yes, my name is Brian and my phone number is 5294870.
are you sure you don't need any help?
We are on the second floor, one of the middle floors.
I'd suggest you not give out too much personal information, like your home address, until after several dates. Just keep up the same guards you would keep up if you were meeting any stranger.
May I have an appointment with you tonight?
I'll accept your offer.
Two hundred and ten yuan. It is the lowest price.
She is eight. Actually, I'm buying a good set of art supplies for her as a birthday gift.
The traffic problem will soon be eased.
Yes, they are. This afternoon, I ’ m going to prune the hedge.
Betty, something is burning. Can you smell it?
I am consistently impressed by my new phone.
Yes. What can I do for you?
Tomorrow will be my first day at work, what do you think I should be wearing?
Then what happened?
Alright, I'll bring it in this afternoon.
It isn't that easy. I hate to quit my present job. People around here are very nice and the work itself is challenging.
Yes. Go down the main road. You can't miss it.
Yes, I do. I know a place that has excellent food.
I don't have my passport on me at the moment. I'll just pop back to my office and pick it up.
I'd like to meet him.Will you introduce him to me?
Well, too bad. So, what foreign film won an Oscar in 1993?
I bet you were ready for a thick juicy steak when you got out of hospital.
And what did you decide?
Premium, please. Thanks. Please fill it up.
Do you plan on voting this Tuesday?
Oh, that's so great, bless you! if you need me, I'll always be there.
I've gotten about six.
No, thanks. I'm fine.
Yes. I can't seem to drink enough.
Don ’ t be worried. Please sit down and take it easy.
Can you tell me why you like it?
I want the latest fashion, can you make some suggestions?
Do you see the woman? Is she a teacher?
Then does that mean the other churches are corrupt?
Oh!!! I have a horrible toothache.
Hmm. You know, the problem might be dust. Did you clean the unit often?
I think the letter of inquiry should be written briefly. If it's too long, I'm afraid the employer won't have time to read it.
sure, thanks. I brought you a bottle of wine as well.
I can smell you.
Oh, you went to the wedding?
All right. Anyway, I'll be staying here for another two weeks. But I'm looking forward to having something done in this respect.
Yeah. How's everything going?
So, you're going to use Sarah's car to go cruising for chicks?
That will be fine.
Under what kind of circumstance will you lose your temper?
Oh, my poor Danny, sure, you are a man. But you know, running like this in street is very dangerous.
What do you think of your personality?
I bought it here three days ago.
Then you must despise such modern music as rock?
On such a hot day, it is thoughtful to have water out for potential buyers.
Well, Doctor, I...
You are always be the most beautiful one in the world. What is the bridemaid's name?
I attend both day and evening classes.
Thank you all the same.
I thought it was O. K. But it really was too hot.And I think they should show people more. The exhibits should be more interesting.
Well, these mediums are still important... they aren't a thing of the past... But I think they might be less important now than in the past. The technology age has arrived!
Would you like to donate to our alumni fund?
10:15 a. m.
Sure, no problem. Can we fix a time to talk later?
I believe that two people did get hurt.
Isn't it lovely! That's when she got her Master's Degree from Miami University.
What? What did you buy?
I'm sorry to tell you that I have to cancel our appointment.
I know the Chinese teachers had their first festival in 1985.
Yes, it is the best of our hotel.
I would like to order a suit made to my own measure.
You need to take a break, maybe a vacation.
They promised us a sea view.
Didn't you notice the roses everywhere?
most students just cram the night forehead.
No, not really run them. But I could help organize them. I could discuss meeting topics with you, and then prepare a schedule for each meeting. I could then send an e-mail to all the staff to explain the coming meeting.This way the meetings would become more focused, and people would prepare better.
Yeah. I got to eat as much pizza as I could for free.
Is there any pain now?
I suggest you hunt for a job on the Internet.
Here's our sample room.
Is the pain continuous?
It’s just the right size-a perfect fit! Have you seen anything you like?
Here you are at last! You're half an hour late, you know.
We heard you weren't feeling well, so we came to check on you.
Mmmm, sounds like risky business. Good luck.
Of course, that is from 1405 to 1433, which is in Ming dynasty.
Mom, I don't want to bathe today.
Well, thank you.
I won ’ t be able to stay here anymore.
These are a dollar each and those are 75 cents each.
Oh, I've never seen a better Mexican restaurant.
Certainty.Do you want double breasted suit or single breasted suit?
Yes, I'm calling from Tenga Company. I'd like to know if you have rooms available for the nights from October 8 to October 12. We are going to have a business conference.
yes, we can look at the computer and computer menu at the same time. And this will help us understand both better.
that's so true. thanks for your help. Are you in the aisle seat in this row?
I didn't know you had a cat. When did you get her?
Do they pay you a lot?
Where should I sit?
There's a garage sale around the corner.
I know. But I ’ m not ready for married life yet.
Yes, it is very nice. I'll take it.
Have people set foot on its peak?
not quite. I also greatly enjoy romance and comedy.
Ben always appears rude to the people around him.
I see. It's on top of the hills.
Of course, you can. Wait a moment.
It doesn't matter. I'll try other companies.
You'll have to make an appointment for that.
May I see your passport please?
Right. And the last thing, we are going to clean the files out tomorrow. Now let's begin.
That sounds like a good idea.
I was supposed to write the check out for $ 100.
Nice to meet you too, Mr. Zhang.
It all depends.
I ’ m staying right where I ’ m at.
It ’ me. Susan Taylor
well, sometimes the city auctions off houses to the community. You ’ d have to make a quick decision about the offer in a day, but you would definitely save money doing it that way.
Excuse me, could you help me pick out a lotion?
Why do you want to go to the US?
Right, do you need them to respond?
Does this TV work well?
Well, I ’ Ve been meaning to talk to you about the situation in the office.
How about taxes service charge?
No, he is the sort of man who likes to hide his candle under a bushel.
How far is it from here to the airport?
do you have any other plans this weekend?
She's very funny. She makes me laugh all the time.
We need to work is because we need money to live. We need money for food and clothes and to pay for our house. We need money for many different things, and only when we work, we can earn money. And work can also help us feel that we are useful.
Do you have any sales experience?
Hi! Bob, are you having problems with that?
Thank you. It has always been my dream to be a stewardess.
Nice to meet you, Ms. Wang. You must be exhausted after your long trip from Canada.
But don't worry. You can get off at the next stop and walk back. It's not far.
It seems Americans are very passionate about sports. Is this just a part of your culture?
Sounds good. Okay, that ’ s it.
Well, you ’ re in luck! You see, if you sign up for our three-year plan, we ’ ll throw in a handset for free.
Make your selection and hope for the best. Vending machines aren't all that reliable.
No. That ’ ll be all.
That's interesting. I'm told the Chinese firework is very beautiful, isn't it?
Let ’ s play a game!
Doesn ’ t Karen Marsh look old!
Try the lipstick as well. See, how fresh and charming you look.
In addition to telling you how much you will receive, the beginning and ending dates of your claim will be included.
Mary, be calm.
No, I don't know which one to choose. I think maybe you can help me.
Well, the scene of the hero's struggle with enemies impressed me the most.
I want a single breasted suit. Here is the cloth.
What a nuisance!
Do you have coffee shops in China, too?
A white one, please.
don ’ t worry. I don't think you ’ re going to lose your job over one mistake.
Yes, but I don't really use it often. Have you ever used it?
I like music that has a fast beat and is lively, like dance music. You know, I go to a disco almost every week. Sometimes It’s too loud though. You prefer classical music, don ’ t you?
We're having a tailgate party I before the game. Would you like to join us?
Okay, you're all set. You're in room 1201. Take the elevators to the 12th floor and it will be on your left. Do you need any help with your bags?
And we ’ ll all help you.
Are you all right?
I am sorry for that. I was so attracted by the beautiful scenery.
I need to get a Letter of Credit. Is this the right window?
That would be lovely, thanks.
That's what I was thinking.
Oh yes. I've got it written down here. Just a minute.
Yes, you're right. And I was so tired that I fell asleep on the way back. My arms are still stiff from the swim yesterday.
You are being watched! Be careful Dan! Be careful!
Everything you can see will be on sale.
Hello, can I help you?
Perfect. Couldn't be better.
It's no use complaining. If we had got enough money, we couldn't put up with it, and would have moved out.
That is a perfect reason to like a certain kind of music.
Did he see the doctor?
I'll have to check. Can I help you with anything else?
Well, actually I prefer something a bit bigger if that's possible.
Sounds good. See you there!
It is quite important for all of us. Without clear goals, one may lose direction and cannot pave the way for their future.
Let ’ s go over there and get some milk, a couple dozen eggs and some orange juice.
Yes, I am. I was born here, and still live with my parents in the same house.
Good morning! Welcome to our office!
Rudy Randolph, 818-555-1234. My reservation begins on the second Monday of April.
Shame on you!
how about some lipstick? Every woman needs a nice tube of red lipstick.
I'm afraid it would take 15 minutes at most.
It's not for us.
What time was it when you went up there?
Actually, I ’ Ve got something scheduled on Monday.Can she do Tuesday?
OK. That's a deal.
If only our company prescribe flex time.
No – That ’ s all right. How about the 30th at 4:00 p. m.? – Is an hour enough?
Now listen, Ben. Look, I think It’s a very good thing that a young man — after he ’ s done some very good work — should have a chance to relax and enjoy himself, and lie around, and drink beer and so on. But after a few weeks I believe that person should want to take some stock in himself and his situation and start to think about getting off his ass.
I ’ m sorry, Mr. Myers. I ’ Ve just been so busy today.
That sounds very reasonable.
I want to buy three tickets. What's the entrance fee?
Oh, is that right? Is there a subway station near here?
He's outgoing and honest, but sometimes he's a bit conservative.
How are you doing with your English Language studies?
I wish I could tell you yes, but no, there isn't.
That ’ s it?
The blue SUV in front of the Honda.
Of course. In Europe, they charge a commission of 1 % of the amount of the claim for their service.
I want to go house shopping, and I want to know what I can afford to buy.
Yes. The police have come.
He is great. He always tells us not to study for exams, and to pay more attention to communication rather than just memorizing.
That's true. In summer, the first place people want to go is a spacious room with air-conditioning or a quiet river or swimming pool.
Of course, that's no problem at all.
It’s the last four charges.
I liked him too. He is so cute! You know, even though I was slightly disappointed, I can't wait for the next episode. I wonder when they ’ re going to start making it and when It’s scheduled for release?
You ’ re leaving so soon. When are you off?
I ’ d want it to have three bedrooms on a second floor with balconies on each, and one main bedroom on the main floor with an attached en suite. I ’ d also want a large living room and kitchen connected to each other so that there would be one large open space for people to spend time with each other.
Hold on a moment please... Sorry, the flight from London has been delayed. It departed two hours later than scheduled.The whether in London was really bad.
Yeah go ahead, forks, spoons and knives. I roasted some meat so be sure to put out some steak knives as well.
That is good, it should speed things up nicely.
We usually go to the cafeteria.
What? Cars? Are you serious?
I think you ’ re right. Climate change naturally over time, but I think that human activities are speeding up the change. I wish that government would join together and try to resolve the problem.
Are you there, Mary?
I advise you not to wear a too casual style when going to an interview. Informal clothes as well as torn jeans and dirty shoes convey the impression that you are not serious about the job, or that you may be casual about your work as you are about your clothes.
Thank you. Is the production line fully automated?
Could you tell me the usual procedures to handle such a case?
May I have a look at it please?
I had meetings back to back all morning. And phone rang off the hook from the minute I walked into the office.
Good. I'll have plenty of time to nap on the plane.
oh, hi Lucas, come on in. I'm Barbara. Nice to meet you.
It’s wonderful, isn ’ t it? Would you like to see some photos that I look recently?
Look how fast that car can accelerate!
Why can ’ t I call someone to fix it today?
Would you like to go with me?
I ’ ll let you know when I get the book in.
Hi, Janice. Our first weekend after being employed is coming. Show me your plan.
Hi, Lucy. What are you going to do this weekend?
What position did you play?
That doctors was lowkey awesome.
To the Municipal Government Hall.
Yes. I have just booked two tickets.
Does Jim make a lot of money?
How long have you been in to pop music, then?
Yes, of course. The delay is due to heavy rain.
Well, what I can tell you is this. We've got an excellent record on making deliveries to our customers. Besides, all our cartons are lined with shockproof cardboards and are wrapped up with polyethylene sheets. So they're not only shockproof but also dampproof.
Of course not! We built a snowman, some snow dogs and one big snow fort. We went sliding on the nice hill. It was a real work out. At noon, we had the most special winter picnic outside. Fortunately, we got it all on a video tape. You must come with us next time. I bet you will love it.
It is a very difficult climb because there are not many places to put your hands and feet.
Yes, of course. What area are you interested in?
Not at all. Take a seat. Now what can I do for you?
Thanks for inviting me, Jack, but I ’ Ve already made plans for this weekend. I won ’ t be able to come, I ’ m afraid.
Yes, but do you have your learner's permit?
That ’ s true.
Well, the airport is quite far from the downtown area, but it is still more convenient than taking the train.
But the word is his brother would go bail for him. Last time It’s his father who went bail for him.
Yes, this is one of our best-sellers. It's not quite as dry as the Sauvignon Blanc we were looking at earlier, which means it's more approachable. It's light and crisp, with a bit of a vanilla aroma.
Don't be too critical.We can't expect it to be perfect.
That's fine. Thanks. Enjoy your trip.
Oh, I am sorry to hear that. Take it easy. It will be OK soon. You see, I take this long-hour plane frequently, but the jet lag still makes me uneasy.
No wonder you brought such a big bag today.
I remember now. I met him before.
Do you take your dog for a walk every day?
Henry, I want to ask you something.
How about a lizard? Are lizards more along the lines of what you were thinking of getting?
What ’ s wrong with you? Why are you scratching so much?
Hi Kara, this is Mike.
What do you think of the local accent here? Has it been causing you any problems?
Not well enough, but I'm learning.
No, they don ’ t. they have a beauty parlor, but I didn ’ t go there.
Does the hotel run its own laundry service?
Absolutely. That set it off big time!
Are you sure the bank will change these coins for you?
Yes, I have worked in a bank for the last years.
Certainly. Is there anything wrong?
But Joe won't you.
Oh, let's hope so.
I need the haircut. But you seem so busy today.
Tell me about how you work here.
Me? I ’ m even less experienced than you are.
What's your favorite magazine?
Do you think any studios will open up soon?
Don't you think it is too far?
I see. That ’ s probably a good idea. Too many forest are being destroyed.
Well, you should have kept an eye on it.
He watch the tob too much. Now really I don't know. But I can't handle this much longer.
You should declare the camera and the film. Do you have alcohol?
Stop preaching your dream love Marilyn Monroe to me. I know those sexy women are your tastes.
Well, it's sounding good! I'm looking forward to that.
Well, we order appetizers first and then entrees.
Cash or card is fine.
Whoa! That's expensive! It should be cheaper.
I went to Croydon.
It's very confusing in here, isn't it?
Mom, can I have more allowance?
Of course. That was the best pasta I've ever had.
We're ready to order. A cup of coffee for me, and a glass of oranges for her.
Yes, we do. Do you have any specific needs?
Good afternoon, is there anything I can do for you?
If I do a few exercises at home, like crunches, I'll soon deal with this waistline.
Which kind do you want?
It won't play a DVD.
You get 2 weeks paid vacation and an additional 10 days of sick leave.
Yes. But I still have some difficulties it breathing.
Ok. I'll go move the car if you turn the heat on. It's a bit chilly in here.
Do you think she'd like a laptop?
That is not true. They are just jealous of him!
Hello, sir. I'm ready for you.
Sixty cents a piece.
Oh, thank you very much. I ’ d like to come, but I ’ m afraid I ’ m busy that evening.
That ’ s where you ’ re making a big mistake! You can ’ t just guess peoples ’ likes or sizes! Especially with clothes or jewelry. On top of that, I think that you should get your mom something that shows how much you love her. At the same time you should show her that you took the time and effort to look for something that she would really like!
Well, if everybody jumped off a bridge, would you jump too?
Hi, happy new year!
See you later, goodbye.
No problem, can I get you anything else?
I'd say all you've done is moved the dirt from the windows on to your face and hands. Disgraceful!
OK, so do you think you can make yourself easily understood in English?
Yes, It’s on the third floor.
I see myself in a management position.
Another weekend is coming!
It's written in English too, in smaller print. There.
And his story didn't even hold together. I feel such an idiot.
What does he look like? Can people tell?
No, nothing in particular. Thank you.
Yes, that's very important.
Time is flying. I still remember everything when he was a child.
Here we are on the train.
Yes, I do. I like painters who use rather than watercolors. The colors appear richer. What do you think?
Your company has a very good reputation, and I have been planning to visit it for a long time. What's the advantage of your factory over other plastics ones?
Do you think my educational background suits this position?
How does this afternoon at 2:30 sound to you?
How did you get into hip hop?
Appropriate greetings will win the interviewer's favorable impression
Not yet. I feel too lousy to go out.Anyway, I have a flu. I know what it is. I don't need a doctor to tell me that.
I genuinely appreciate engineers.
Oh, yes Mr.Chou. We have been looking forward to this.
No, I haven't discussed my leaving plans with my current employer, but I am sure he will release me.
Could you leave him a message?
I want to go there, too. Can I?
I ’ m really jealous! I won ’ t be able to get any time off for at least another three or four months.
To be honest, I'm really fed up with work at the moment. I need a break!
They give chocolate in return.
OK, I see.
It's so small that I didn't notice it.
It seems that yesterday the Mexican government declared wouldn't pay back the loans it got from the World Bank.The government declared a default on the loans.
You are supposed to check in at least one hour beforehand.
Aren't the trousers a little too long?
He sounds hot! What does he do for a living?
Ok, the total would be $ 367 and 65 cents.How would you pay?
Did you call the repairman?
he bought me an iron.
Let's go after work and take a tour of the facilities.
Yeah! I called him after I got home to arrange our next date, but unfortunately his grandma is sick so he has been busy every night visiting her in the hospital.
Yeah. Mixed marriage is tempting but crisis-ridden.
The hardcover is more expensive.
Yes. He was released from hospital yesterday evening. The other man could be there for weeks.
IBA, Maria speaking. How can I help?
I like to work alone on some things and then bring those things to the group.
Have you ever been to Xi ’ an?
What you said gives me the creeps!
Yes, it wasn't too hard to get. All I had to do was fill out the paperwork and pay the application fee.
Not at all. No hidden fees or surcharges, it is a flat monthly rate.
Sure. Just leave it to me. I'll finish it.
You have children now. What if something, god forbid, happens to you?
Mr wilson is on the line right now. Please have a seat. He'll be right with you.
What is this test for?
Is there anything that you are interested in?
seriously? But you are such a genius.
So you wanna stay here?
Never mind. I'll do it.
ok. I ’ ll let you know when I ’ Ve sorted out my clothes.
So, let ’ s get started. tell me a bit about your educational background.
We offer various types of transportation. Perhaps you'd like to upgrade to a private vehicle?
Don't take any chances. It'd be best if you told him and promised not to be late again. He's already mad at you for last 2 times. Any more and he might fire you.
It’s always easier to say something than to do it.
I agree! I cried for a week when they broke up.
Yes, I did indeed. But, could you tell me what exactly the ' Priority Service Room ' is used for?
I'm afraid that's as far as we could go. We'd already be stretching ourselves to the limit.
Ahem... uh, sir, I beg your pardon... Uh, mister, are you waiting to buy a ticket for the movie?
Don ’ t bother. I will help myself.
Seventy US dollars.
No, you can take your time. Oh, I also want a manicure while I am having the perm.
I want to buy a parking permit, please.
What problems did you find?
Of course not.You need a good rest.
456 Cherry Drive, Pasadena, CA 91170.
I know what love it. When I was young, I felt the same way.
I didn ’ t have time to return them.
I'm very sorry for that, but I sent you several messages to explain, my mom was seriously ill, and I had to look afer her.
I was going to cash it at the hotel, but one of my friends said that banks always give better exchange rates.
Yes, sir. It's one of the best beers in China.
I know where to put my card! Stupid machine, talking to me like I ’ m an idiot...
I think that countries are working hard to find a planet that we can live on in the future so that when global warming destroys this planet, humankind will not become extinct.
Welcome to Lincoln Bank. How may we be of service?
Sounds like a good plan. What do you want to see?
I guess that's just the luck of the draw.
I had a wonderful time. The rooms are not very big, but they are well furnished. The restaurant is excellent and reasonably priced. There ’ s a sauna and a Jacuzzi.
I see. I had no idea our advertising was so misleading. It is here, but It’s in the fine print on the last page.
Now I see, you must be suffering from discomgoogolation.
Did you say you saw lily alone?
Yeah, this one closes at ten. We could drive to the 24 - hour store on sixth.
It's bulldog 123.
It's been a long time, hasn't it? How have you been?
Mom, where is the remote? I can't find it.
They sell pizza and burgers at the cafeteria.
No can do... sorry.
She says that after several years of use, It’s not working properly. When she uses it, it makes a funny noise.
Have you ever found yourself in a situation when you have to lie to people who trust you?
I am sorry, sir. I have broken the reading lamp in my room.
I've seen her on TV but not in the flesh.
I'm from Shanghai. And you?
I got major FOMO from missing that musicians.
are you kidding me? How could he behave like that?
How do you like your steaks?
Right. I only knew a few English sentences.
So wearing a scarf helps your body to stay warm inside your jacket.
Would you kindly spell it for me?
Good morning, everybody. Welcome to IAM Technology. I'm very pleased so many of you could make it here today. My name's Sam Weiss. I'm the Production Manager. I'd like to show you the layout of the factory before we go and visit it. As you can see from this diagram, everything is under one roof. We've designed it this way to help the flow of materials and to avoid bottlenecks.
So glad that you think so!
What is your favorite coffee?
Around five thirty.
Would you like to ask any questions?
You know what? Don't mention it.
keep it and use it as rag. You can clean your bicycle with it.
She must be a good wife.
I know. I intent to go to the store today.
Oh, good! We can all get together again.
Which way do we go for the Northern Line?
I think the slight pay decrease might be worth it. The benefits are much better.
Mrs. Wang, would you give us an idea of the price you regard as workable?
Yes, but it's quite a ways.
The delivery people showed up four hours late.
Not bad. I finally bought a house. It’s an old one, but built really solid. It is close to here. Do you want to come over for lunch?
Really? Then I guess living together would be a good idea.
My English isn't very good. I didn't know what to say to them.
You can take No. 2 bus.
wow! good timing.
Is this the class to prepare for interviews?
It’s time to get up.
It's a little green post-it note, stuck right in the middle of my computer screen.
Would you? I wouldn't.
No, I don ’ t really like it. It’s boring.
yes, but I bought it when it was on sale, 50 % off the original price. OK, what do you think?
How did you spend the night there?
Great! Will you please tell me how to take it?
Did you just get your review or something?
You can deposit and ensure amount of ten dollars.
I'm tired of this job.
I know what she would like---some whitening cream.
I wish it was, but it isn't. They will still want a credit card.
Of course. Generally speaking, dressing should be tidy and neat, and match well with your identity, age, and experience.
Well, I think personal development is much more important than simply having a superior living environment.
I am very nervous about signing my escrow papers.
Right. You have a choice of account, we provide USD, HAD, JOY and GAP accounts. Which do you want to go for?
it's on at 8: 00 pm at the Phoenix Theatres. I have a membership there, so I can book the tickets ahead of time.
That ’ s good news. The good thing is that most people treat their pets well.
What are you doing for Christmas this year?
That's convenient.Thank you.
i have felt that. One day when i was in a queue, reading a newspaper story, the man behind me peered through my shoulder and stared at the newspaper I was holding.
I've already found a flat and it's quite comfortable. What about you?
They've completely slipped my mind.
I think they're playing Lord of the Rings
I know, Mr. Douglas. But I am really sick.
I arrived this morning. I would have rung you before but I have been terribly busy all day attending a conference. It has only just ended. Are you doing anything tonight, Mary?
Fine, thank you, sir. It’s nice to see you again.
What's the extension number for my phone?
Let me take this up with the Director and get back to you immediately.
Believe it or not, tea is the most popular beverage in the world after water.
How much do you want to spend?
He shouldn't drive his car. He should come here by bus.
Mr Ludlow, hello. It's good to see you again. What can we do for you today?
are you kidding? Can you afford it? Do you think we can get a room on such short notice?
You can't go wrong with Gramercy Tavern. It's famous for its food, service, and live jazz.
I'll buy it for $ 2000.
Well, what can I say? I didn't know. Oh, I meant to tell you earlier, your blouse doesn't really match your skirt. Those colors don't really suit you either.
I would like to rent a car. What kind of car do you have?
Not yet, I pick it up tomorrow.
I think that I have something else really important to do on that day. I just can ’ t remember what it is.
Nothing earlier? I prefer flight at 9 thirty.
You have quite a range, haven't you?
Welcome back racing fans! My name is Rick Fields and, as always, I am joined by my partner in crime, Bob Copeland.
Bull. I're done my research. I know you still control more than 65 percent of invoking options.
I could use one, too. I'm still burnt out from that last cigarette ad campaign.
I guess I'm lending them to you...
You should take their advice. They know what's best for you.But my friends will have jobs and lots of fun, while I spend all my time doing reading and writing.
Wang Wei. Room 1212.
Let's go and try now!
ok, let me try it on. what do you think?
You're joking, right? No wonder we've been tied up with this project. I know the environmental impact statement will take forever to get approval if they've found anything endangered on the site. Are they positive there is evidence of endangered species actually living there?
Yes, the next morning.
Great. Can you file in English?
OK! How long dose it take you to deliver if we order 1000 pieces of silk?
What exactly is wrong with the plumbing?
Oh, I remember now.Very nice to meet you again.
What job-related skills do you have?
umm... yeah! I ’ m looking for a nice gift to give my girlfriend. Our fifth anniversary ’ s next Friday.
Yeah. She married him at her mother's bidding.
That ’ s bogus. I don't feel any stress at work, and my love life is practically nonexistent. This zodiac stuff is all a bunch of nonsense.
Hello.Is Bob there, please?
Please type the amount you would like to withdraw.Thank you, you want to transfer 10000 USD to the World Wildlife Foundation. If this is correct please press 1.
You know our boss always trying to save the last penny. We have to use up the equipment first.
Sure, that ’ d be great.Where would you like to go?
Good heavens. Why did you take so many?
Oh.we made it. Thank you. How much do I own you?
What is the starting salary for me?
Nothing. I think I'll take the job.
Yes, you can find it at the entrance.
for the most part, yes. Some of the rides are bit too scary for me, though.
Sure. We'll be there in a few minutes.
T he nineteenth of June is my birthday. I'm planning to have a small party. Could you come?
Never better, thanks.
That's a long time. Where did she live before that?
That's the style! You just wear boxers.
Do you want to add some baby ’ s breath for that? They are equally popular now.
Oh, not yet. At least have one for the road.
Good morning, you look very tired.
Okay, I got it. You've already run out of all your amenities?
I'd like to try the chef's special.
Oh, darling, we must stand shoulder to shoulder and face the music. I know you can pull yourself together.
Certainly.It matches your suit perfectly.
Sure, that will be thirty-two dollars please.
Then I'll accept it with thanks.
I can tell you worked hard on it.
What about the Olympic park?
Let me see. Oh, yes, we have your reservation number.
What was she like?
Yes, I think so. There are some pictures in it. It would be a great pity if they were lost.
How many years of experience do you have?
I'm from Madras.
Obviously, it depends on what I ’ m cooking.But I ’ d say it generally takes about one and a half hours.
You think so? Oh, no! How can he do this to me? I ’ m sure he ’ s cheating on me! Why else wouldn ’ t he call?
Something's wrong with my air conditioning.
What is that? What are you doing? You ’ re taking all the caviar! That caviar is a garnish?
I'm afraid it will take 15 minutes at most.
All right. How about this one?
Each night will be $ 308.
Right. I ’ ll see you later.
Yes, if I get worse, I will definitely look for extra help with this.
But she lied to me.
David, would you like something to eat?
Very quiet and safe. And it's got a lot of trees and plants.
I'll have the stainless ones. They look very solid.
Let's go to a ETV tonight.
Somebody, please answer the phone.
That's great to hear.
I'm a guide. I take people on tours to countries in South America, like Peru.
No. you can cut quite a bit off, I like it to be very short all over. You see what I mean.
Yes. You are right.
I got a ticket yesterday.
He is a bootlicker. I suppose that is because he is quick on the uptake.
I wish she wouldn ’ t regret for her decision.
A picnic lunch would be a nice thing to have along.
I'd like reading books best.
They ’ re dark gray.
Yes, but I don't think they are enough for me.
It sounds like you are coming down with the flu. Let me take your temperature.
Sure. Is it sweet?
I was an office boy.
Do you like watching football matches?
Well, I want 1,000 yuan in traveler's checks and the rest in cash.
Jack, could you check your calendar?
Wait a second, PLS. Yes, Mr. Lee, we have a room reserved for you. How long do you plan to stay?
Yes. My country is certainly expanding in the service and hi-tech sectors, but contracting in the heavy industry and primary industry sectors. However, our car and aircraft manufacturers are doing very well.
Hello, reservation desk. How can I help you?
How are you doing today? How many in your book today?
By the end of this month, at the latest.
You can feed them on various things. They will eat small pieces of meat, but I ’ d recommend insects. You can get them from your garden, but remember that lizards eat a lot insects. I sell them here.
Where do you think you have problems?
At 2:00.
The price on the tag says £ 565 but maybe you can get a discount.
I like variety shows.
OK, Ms. Monica. I've reserved a double room for you next Saturday and Sunday night. We will see you then!
Anytime. You can reach me at 5558929.
Thank you for your delicious meal.
Thank you. Pls hurry, I am late. Can I get to the Battery Park before 4?
Good afternoon. Can I be of service?
Great. Well, the main issue here, as you can see, is that our expenses are through the roof.
Sounds like you've done your homework. I think you're ready for this.
You should do sports to keep young.
So you plan on washing your clothes here from now on?
I need about four pounds.
Well, the standard card has a lower credit limit, that's 20,000 RIB, whereas with the platinum card you can have a credit limit of 80,000 RIB.
You flatter me.
To thank you for helping me at work last week. If you would not have been so kind, I would not have been able to pick my parents from the airport. You really did me a big favor. Thank you so much.
No, I need my books.
really? Where did you hear that?
good morning, Nathaniel. This is Leah calling from the International Student Office.
I am serious. Every morning I set my watch by the radio, but it still loses ten minutes.
Bill, you know that work is not the same as exercise as it is stressful but not relaxing. And skipping meals will not help you lose weight. In fact your body will only store fat if you miss meals.
I think I might like some Chinese food.
Sometimes I forget that we don't have school on Saturdays.
Sounds good. I'll take that.
Yeah, are you going to come?
No! I am on my way to the reserve room. Thanks again!
Absolutely. To be frank, I learned quite a lot about those animals and polar areas. I'm thinking of my kids there one of these days.
Why don't you take it for a test drive, and think it over.
The street isn't wet.
Yes. It's snowing outside. Let's enjoy the plum blossoms.
Look, Jimmy's report came today.
Would you mind telling me then — what were those four years of college for? What was the point of all that hard work?
oh, maybe I can take the bus or even rent a car.
It's on the west street, near Royal Hotel.
Hi. I need more amenities, please.
I'm highkey obsessed with this scientists.
You didn ’ t hear? Spain won, two to zero.
Oh yeah. It loses only a few seconds in the whole month.
She told me she liked my new haircut. She thought it was cool.
Is the room ready for the lecture now?
It looks like you have a red rash all over you! Are you allergic to anything?
Oh, I know. Does it mean that shipment will have to be delayed if I insist on using wooden cases?
Up to you, you could have a one on one session with a tutor or group sessions, you can also use free or private computer software. Going to church might help as well!
Okay. Please take some fruit salad and crackers for me.
what happened? You look so pale.
I feel dizzy and weak. And I'm having this pain in my ear. I think I am sick.
I don ’ t know who placed the call. However, the call was from Toronto.
Poor Danny. You are so enfeebled!
Would you make gay marriage legal?
It’s a traditional Scottish delicacy ; you take sheep ’ s liver, heart and lung and stuff it inside of the sheep ’ s stomach.
It's very kind of you.
Sorry, sir, here you are.
It's still too dark. Any brighter colours?
Evan, are you busy right now?
With that attitude, I don't really think we have much more to discuss here.
Things are different in Japan. You know, in some countries, making eye contact with others is considered rude.
Dress casually and bring your bathing suit!
This one suits better. I will take it.
It's a medium load.
You ’ re so picky sometimes.
I just know I want to get out of the mindless gift trap.
I like to use shorthand note taking.
Sure. The fitting room is over there.
Ah... I see. Hey, look the sign here, No climbing.
Well, the parts are automatically selected from the store room using a bar-code system. And there is an automatic feeder which takes them to the conveyor belt at the start of the production line.
I guess so, but I think It’s going to be hard to relate to my classmates, especially with the language barrier. I think I might change classes.
I read it myself on the financial page.They ' re really going to join together. U-Tunes was bought out by Murphy's, they will take over the company as of next month.
Oh hello, Sally. This is Dave Thomson here. Could I speak to Jim please?
Can I help you get ready?
Yes, goodbye and keep in touch.
The facial will start with a thorough cleansing.
No, I don't. I've never had a bad one before.
Don't worry! There are a lot more prizes! I know, because the prizes are all from companies that I work with!
The insurance policy protects us.
I'm looking for a pair of shoes.
You'll have to take a make-up exam in logic.
What else would I prepare, Sir?
Certainly. This will take only a few seconds.
If you think that she is not fair with your work then you should talk to her in person instead of stewing over it.
Hello. Is my laundry ready? My room number is 210.
That's very honest of you. Rest assured that this hotel will have no insects next time.
Is there anything I could help you with, sir?
Please forgive me just being frankly, madam. You don't need whitening products because you look pretty white. But you have freckles on your face.
The article points out that many languages have been lost and will be lost, but others will continue to be used for generation, even if English continues to be the dominant language.
The telephone is by the end. Dial 0 for reception.
It sounds good. I'll try it.
I came in response to your advertisement for a salesperson.
No, it's my camera for personal use.
What do you feel your greatest achievement has been at your current job?
You just don't get it. Looking for bargains can be really interesting.
Eu-char-ist? What is that?
Of course.Here you are.
That is really convenient. Especially now that fuel prices are so high! What ’ s under the hood?
What time would you like your wake-up call?
First, as far as I know, your company has had an impressive growth record. Second, I want to get into the foreign trade business.
I don ’ t mind at all. You can ask me anything. We ’ re friends.
Yes, that'll be fine. How much is this going to cost?
I've never paid for a hotel souvenir in my life, and I don't intend to start now.
Do you have any hats?
I don't know, but was there a certain movie you wanted to see?
Nice to see you, too. I heard you are a staff of Nokia company.
Yes. He must remain in bed for another two days. He can get up for about two hours each day, but you must keep the room warm. Where's Mr Williams this evening?
There is some really good news though!
I'll be back in ten days.
Oh, my God, three hours already! I have to get the chores done!
Well, right now there's a special rate for 40,000 RIB for this package, including everything such as airline ticket, tour guides, hotels and food. All you have to do is to sign up and we will take care of everything.
Oh, yes, he is brilliant. What's the name of the young actor?
Do you want to mail it by air or sea?
Wen! That's only a stereotype. Like all Asians are supposed to be math geniuses. I'm not a great dancer, and you said you failed calculus.
What ’ s your problem! Geez. Having a fit is not going to help!
I totally agree. I really like my lifestyle to be drama-free, and I don't want to argue about cleaning the apartment. My last roommate was a drama queen. Every time I forgot to take my shoes off, she got really mad and made a big deal out of it.
That won't be a problem. Could you please tell me your name?
French dressing, please.
That would be very nice. Only that I ’ ll be a little late. Is that OK?
No, he cleaned it last time. It's your turn.
Are you enjoying married life?
Whatever... Smell! Perfume samples!
Are you renting it alone or with company?
Hello, I would like to make a reservation for four nights next week, from Tuesday to Friday.
It's still early.
I guess you're right.
That ’ s right I ’ m afraid I have to postpone it. Mr. Scott got sick and I have to attend the Speechmaker ’ s Symposium in his place. I ’ m leaving today, and I won ’ t be back until a week from Friday.
Yes, a passport will be fine.
Yes, sir. That's correct. How will you pay your bill, cash or credit card?
Are you done?
I can ’ t believe it! I thought the Cougars were going to win for sure.
Good morning. I'd like a business suit made with this material.
Okay, enough small talk. Let ’ s get down to business.
Get in this door young man. It’s midnight, you are two hours past curfew.
I don't think that will do. How about the one at your back?
There were several rooms, but the worst leak was in the bathroom.
You should check the connections.
for our errands, and maybe a little extra for something from a vendor on the street.
Greetings should never be ignored in the interview.
Well, that ’ s true, but you ’ d probably only watch cartoons and action movies.
Yeah. I was looking at some of your pants, but they are all a bit too long. Do you have alteration services here?
Sure. Most facials start with a thorough cleaning. Then we usually use a toner to invigorate the skin, followed by exfoliation treatment-a peeling mask or scrub that removes the dead cells that make the skin lock dull. After that, we'll massage your face and neck with oil or cream to improve the circulation and relieve the tension, followed by a mask to moisturize and soften the skin.
But I didn't see the sign, Ma ’ am.
Well, feel free to drop by my office any time. The door ’ s always open.
Well, birds of a feather flock together. I like her too. She was in a lot of dramas.
Yeah, I didn't get the job in the end.
Milestones? May, you must be kidding.
do you believe in UFO's?
they need to eat healthy foods, but they also have to increase the amount of exercise they do every day. They don't have to cut out fattening foods altogether, though.
Are you feeling better now?
I ’ Ve cut it up and come to the conclusion that hi is actually sick of Jenny ’ s brother. But he likes Jenny. She is a big apple in his eye.
Afterwards, we can do the washing up together. Everything will be finished within an hour. Your friend Keith is really funny. I liked his magic tricks.
I know. I have to prepare the supper for the whole family before I leave.
We open at lo
Please type the amount you would like to withdraw. Thank you, you want to transfer 10000 USD to the World Wildlife Foundation. If this is correct please press 1.
That sounds interesting! I'll send a fax. As soon as I receive the definite answer, I'll give you a special answer.
Very well, sir. Do you want me to trim your beard?
Wow! you grew up in a school! No wonder your English is excellent!
Mrcrabby, I ’ m pleased to see you.
Three would be a good time.
Oh, great! I love it! You know I've been expecting this for a long time.
Yes, I am a local resident.
It is said that greens can improve our metabolism. In addition, I want to keep fit.
What's the matter, sir? You look pale.
Usually for lunch, we don't have to reserve a table, they should allow walk-ins. But to be on the safe side, I'll order a table for half-past twelve. Will that suit your schedule?
Excuse me! Do you know of any hotel nearby?
You can ’ t be serious.
it's a monthly magazine, but my column will be shared with another columnist so my articles will be due fortnightly.
Excuse me. What time does the next train to London leave?
It is 150 dollars each.
I've got a sore throat and my chest hurts.
I suppose he's not in top form.
Don ’ t make a mountain out of molehill. I am sure he will do that on his payday.
ok. What's your number?
Let's make sure we are on the same page. Do we want a formal or informal gathering?
That's a little more than we had planned.
Definitely not, sir.
Certainly. Is there anything else you would like me to bring, Mr. O ’ Brian?
What? How could you forget to reserve the concert tickets?
We're happy together now.
We don ’ t have enough cash, so I ’ ll take my credit card and we can pay with that. Where are the car keys?
Sir, only your mother wants to please you more than we do.
Well, we could adjust the interest rate based on the original rate and the amount of days you actually borrowed the money for.
That's right. Here you go.
I ’ m looking for a sweater for my wife. Tomorrow is her birthday. And I know she needs a woolen sweater.
Yes. You should rent a brown suit and a black shirt.
Yes, I will. But how much is it?
He once made a speech on the ‘ Renaissance of the Olympics '.
what's the matter with you? You look so upset and tired.
Oh yes. Men, women, and children shake hands all the time.
DEL is better than dial-up?
I have had it on and off for the past three years. It's just gotten much worse these past two weeks.
Yeah and remember if you buy something you mustn ’ t carry it home otherwise your back will get worse.
She's looks very healthy.How old is she?
A dime? I remember when copies used to cost a nickel.
Thank you.Good evening, Mr.Dean.
We'd better ask dad first.
Well, I ’ m a college student.How about you?
Yes, I'm sure I've been here before.
Well, I have a lot of work. I'll see how to goes.
I'm lucky I wasn't killed. I must have been going around forty-five miles an hour.There was too much gravel on that corner. I slid out.
I'm worried that she can't catch up with her class.
terrorist acts are deliberate and deadly and can affect every walk of life.
Oh, thank you, just shows you what is going to max jemmy redate for all this body.
Thank you! What about your daughter, Pamela? I heard she has passed the bar exam and married recently.
Sorry. You know the rules.
Do you like the room?
I feel as if I am going to be sick to my stomach.
Hmm... well, maybe we can buy this one then.
I ’ ll be there in about an hour.
Good morning Mike!
In just three weeks, and I am excited. But there are still a few things I need to do before I go.
Well, we've settled the question of price, quality and quantity. Now what about the terms of payment?
I'm not sure. It could be the tires. Let's stop here.
No, don't be sorry. It's reasonable to ask your friends. But believe me, most of the students here in the university-Asian students included-most of them use Apple.
All in all, it will never lose its appeal.
really? I didn't know that would be possible.
Happy birthday! This is for you, Kate.
Perhaps one month. I'll just have a try at first.
How about an outlet?
nine twenty pm, I couldn't say. I cann't remember.
Yes, Mr. Emory?
Pretty good. I've made a few friends already.
Yes, that annoys me too. With billboards, you can look away, but with broadcasts, you can ’ t avoid them. I like the way that advertising agencies use comedy in their campaign.
Yes, bring us two steaks and two loads of bread, please.
What a nice day! Why don't we go for an outing?
I am afraid we have no extra key. So I will send somebody to your room.
Gate Four. Please go and have a seat in the waiting hall.
Do you think that we should include the entire committee in the meeting or just our sub-committee?
I ’ m afraid there is, Greg. I don ’ t mind you taking a break. But you ’ Ve been away from your desk for twenty-five minutes already.
It's a kitty.
OK.Here you are.
It does, sir. Do you still want to have it changed now?
I think Beethoven's music is incredible. I've heard that listening to it can make you more intelligent, too. Do you believe that?
He brings with him some talented people from his former city.
Let's get frozen juice. It is really good. We ’ Ve got enough food. Let ’ s go over to the check-out stand.
From reviewing your resume I can see that you have ample experience for this position.What I want to know is why you think you ’ re right for the job.
Yes, of course. We could split it. What part would you like to do, the food or the entertainment?
Hey, Jim, you're 15 minutes late. What's up?
I can only offer you 110,000 Yuan a year. Raises will be given after a three-month probation according to your performance. Is that satisfactory?
That's right. Let's go into the details.
It includes everything except cable TV, and telephone.
Welcome. One of your duties is to know the number of the customer and accept reservation.
Didn't I? I'm doing business studies.
Very good! It pumps blood throughout the body, using the circulatory system such as blood vessels and veins. Now let's not forget that our lungs provide oxygen to our heart and body to keep us alive! Now what about the organs that help us digest food?
Yes, my oral English teacher is an American. He is from a small town in California.
How many pounds would you like?
Sorry, I'm using it myself.But you can use it this afternoon.
Sure ( They get on the boat ).
For some reason it's just not connecting.
Sure. Many people, including men and women, and be easily ripped off.
No way! I like my apartment, and I like to be independent.
that makes sense.
Oh, why didn't you say so then? But I still think we've made a good buy.
I'm Mr. Bob, Room 309. I'm checking out today. Can I have my bill now?
I understand. Would you like me to call you back?
No time. That's their headlights in the window!
I would get Fuji 200 film for taking photos of natural beauty.
Will the Award Letter tell me what I need to fill out next?
How much money are you making a month?
Really? What's the matter?
I always love skiing. You know, it's a cool game for cool people. Stay with me and you will be cool, too.
Be prepared to show a written notice of your termination as proof.
Because if you drink a kind of tea which has been prepared for some time before, it will do you harm.
To a historic coffeehouse. It's got a little Mafia story to it.
We will go for the US dollar account.
Sir, your bags are 30 pounds over weight. You are allowed only 45 pounds of baggage.
I realize that everyone has emergencies ; just get here on time from now on.
Would you like anything for your stomach?
May I tell him who's calling?
I'm afraid I can't agree with you.
Thanks a lot, Brad. I've got to go before the bell rings.
Not as long as it gets fixed.
But it is not the right time.
I see, please wrap it.
I see myself as an encourager. Of course, sales can be quite competitive and sometimes people in this field have a secret desire for others to fail. In my last job, each representative handled
Excuse me. I need to refill this prescription.
Yes, quality is even more than the quantity.
That's no trouble, Sir.
Ok. Which facial would you like? We have five different kinds of facials.
Have you got anything cheaper?
Could you do me a favour? Please give me some confidential information.
Yes, I see what you mean. You need to reject these documents.
So we can get down to business.
I want to go to Broadway and 82nd Street. Can I take any bus that comes along?
I'm sorry, Mom.
I know where the C building is.
Yes, I like working like that.
The code is 880, the area code is 010 and the local number is 8824578 4.
Don't play hard to get. The pay is good. You'd be working with Elvin again.
No, I'll go by myself, thanks.
Great, thanks. What ’ s up?
What are they doing over there? People keep on gathering there.
I've come about your wools. According to our market survey, wools are likely to find a ready market in our country.
Basically speaking, yes, we welcome the establishment of repry - tentative offices by foreign companies in Washington D. C. Of course, there are more details to be attended to. We cannot settle it in a few words.
Not particularly. I was rather disappointed.
Curse the worst oven in the world.
Hello. Yes, I'm here to redeem a Treasury Note. It's not at the maturity date yet, but it is an emergency.
Sir, you can use the gym for free. All you need is your room key.
I'm glad to know that you like her.
that would be a good shot. Can you take my picture here, dear? Please try to get the garden in the frame as well.
38000yuan is my final offer.
Stop all this fuss and enjoy the show.
It’s not usually included, so you ’ ll have to factor in about 100 pounds more each month for utilities.
Would you like to go out some time?
I am sorry to hear that you are not feeling well. How are you?
That's a good idea. Do you want some more coffee?
Go ahead. It’s OK with me.
Sorry, honey, something has cropped up again. I have to deal with it. Perhaps I will go to back home till very late.
I've been really busy. How is everything?
hey, what if the three of us go to the beach together? Besides, you and Bob haven't seen each other for a while. I don't want my best friend and my boyfriend to be complete strangers.
Hey, Wen! Welcome to D. C.! Glad you came out to visit!
I ’ m not sure, but probably about 75 years. How about in your country?
I ’ Ve been waiting for a response on the Blake Building design for nearly two weeks.
why don't you call your secretary and tell her to reschedule the meeting? You should really get some seat or you'll end up feeling even worse than you do now.
Nine pills per day, and three pills after each meal.
I want to change my hairstyle. What would you suggest?
You should know that already.
Do you want to buy something here?
What do we need to get from the supermarket?
I've got it. I won ’ t bother you any more. You ’ d better hurry to do it, Christmas is just around the corner.
as far as I know, insomnia is usually caused by stress. Are you stressed at all?
That'll be eight dollars, please.
There was no picture taken, so I'll let you go.
That's too bad, anyway, I'm sure things will turn around next master.
I would like to get that.
I think what you wear is so overrated. I would rather have a down-to-earth, honest and solid sales person than a painted, patent leather, designer suite salesman.
Well, I suppose I could cross out the 18th century poetry class. I have to see when the Shakespeare class meets.
That ’ ll do.Bring the most recent one in with your completed application, and we ’ ll issue you a temporary library card right away.
More and more women don ’ t want to stay at home and keep house now.
We'll see what happens after court.
It says on the bottle here that you can have two refills.
so, are you going to quit driving to work then?
You are witty.
Of course not. But I don't know when to get off.
Fine! Will you need part-time or full-time work?
Why? Do you know that guy?
Yes, this price is very affordable, but driving this car you'll also notice a significant annual saving in gas consumption. The main attraction for this model is the fuel economy.
Excuse me. My name is Richard Davis of Magic Office Supplies. I'm here to see Mr.Chen.
How are you doing, sir?
Is that very likely in England?
The usual time. Half past two in the afternoon.
Next time, I'll look for the bus myself.
I can check that for you right now. Would you mind holding?
Where's your hometown?
Would you care for coffee or tea?
Oh, just for a position as a gas station attendant. You know, starting at a simple lowly job, just like all the greats before they made it big in the world.
Well... this one costs more, but it has a much better sound.This part of it is made of wood, not plastic. And there's a tone control, too.
How time flies! I'll not see twenty again.
Why? What's stressing you out?
Okay, I'll see you at 6 o'clock. Do you need any directions?
Hello, Rachel. It's glad to see you here.
I'm quite outspoken. I enjoy calling a spade a spade and hate talking in a roundabout way. So I'd call myself outgoing.
I've got a better idea. Why don ’ t we hire a boat and go for a ride? What do you think?
Yes. I'd like to open an account that enables me to draw money easily.
Yeah, after receiving my yearly bouns, I want to search out better opportunities in the spring job market. I've been working in the company for nearly a year and a half and I still haven't received a pay rise. It's unfair.
I'm in computing. I work for Macrohard.
I have a running machine at home. I used to use it, but I already got sick of it.
It must be cold in the winter, though.
How many days do you plan to finish reading it?
Let me show you.
The time has come to say goodbye.
Well, when you have that, you can take it over to the bookstore. Can you find it?
Thanks. I really appreciate that.
Are you a music lover?
I'm on your side. It needs to be done over.
It's at 7:30 a. m.
Yes, and you can renew this prescription by phone.
Nothing exactly. She's grown into a very attractive young lady.
Of course, Mr. Kramer. How are things going these days?
Not, if you don ’ t want to.
I am afraid there is none.
He is not answering. You'd better check his pulse and breathing.
Or discuss what gifts they could buy together.
If you're a student, you can get a student bus pass.
Yes, we're interested in seeing the rooms for rent.
I hope your grandfather will recover soon.
Well, the salary is a little low, but the students are nice. How are things with you?
When will you be paying these fees off?
What certificates of technical qualification have you got?
That ’ s one hundred and forty.
Have you ever been there?
I can ’ t decide what to do today.
He needs to see the two of us to talk about next week ’ s annual sales meeting.
That's shortsighted. By the time the workers are experienced and contributing. They are likely to go.
Yes, this runway is going to sparkle with glamour and style!
Yes, so this year we are going to take our first family vacation, just you and I.
I know. Hold your position and say cheese.
Do you know a bus that goes to the Gold Line station?
Jane's mother always wants her to marry a big shot. J
Well, there's this pair.
For where we live, that is really inexpensive.
That's fine, Sir. We'll see you again a little later.
As a rule, we don't allow any commission. However, as an encouragement for businesses, we will allow you a 3 % commission.
Thank you for choosing Bruno's. We look forward to seeing you on the 2nd.
I have a large family. I have three older sisters, my twin sister, a younger brother, and my parents.
But Ernie, we're still missing something. We need someone to play the music!
Yes.May I have some more beer?
Four is an unlucky number here, Peter.Four sounds like death in Chinese.Hotels often have no fourth floor.
Does your work involve a lot of paper filling and typing?
Yes, there ’ s a department store in Wang Fu Jing.
Hey George, how is your chicken?
Sheila, what time should we meet tomorrow?
Just get over here!
Oh, my God. I've totally forgotten about that. Anyway, I think she would like a bottle of perfume.
10 days. When I get back, I still have two days to go before work. Isn ’ t that great?
You must know our working hours are very long and overtime work is frequent.
What are the fundamental course?
Would you like to mail it by air or sea?
So the reform cannot be carried out well.
Hello sir, welcome to Pistolera restaurant. May I take your order?
We will be there! Thanks for the help!
So you must get higher pay than before.
Have you every belonged to a political party?
Oh, that's really tough.
Oh, then when do you celebrate Easter?
Since the day before yesterday.
Oh, yeah? Which team?
Mm, you do look rather pale. Let me take your temperature. Would you put the thermometer under your arm, please? Now, let me listen to your pulse. Mm, do you feel weak?
Both countries are very poor. Soon they will run out of money to finance the war. Then, perhaps, they will negotiate.
Excuse me, sir. I wonder if I could exchange the shoes for a larger one.
Health Monitor? I read an article about that racket.They ' re overpriced to begin with! Listen, if I were you, I'd let them take back their monitor and spend my money on something more practical.
there's a gym nearby? That's exciting! I really want to start to go to gym as soon as possible. I've been lazy this summer holiday and have put on some weight.
How can I tell her about this?
How about drink, Sir?
Really? I know you are very concerned about the environment. You were a member of the pressure group Greenpeace, weren ’ t you?
Sure. But I still liked it.
Whatever you say. I just want to get to my meeting!
Bill, do you know when did the Chinese begin to celebrate Teachers ' Day?
You know the government controls the press here, sir. They don't want it reported.
Turn on the TV, for what?
I know. I am still going to clean it up.
Toss a coin to decide then.
I'd like to buy a house about 300m with a garden. Can you help me?
OK. Monday is the big day for job ads.
Good morning, Maintenance Department.
Well, if you ever want to visit Korea, I would be happy to show you around.
Remember that writing contest I entered? Well, I won first prize.
did you read the books before you watched the movies?
Are you still gouging your customers the same price per unit?
Let ’ s see... you ’ re a Capricorn. It says that you will be feeling stress at work, but you could see new, exciting developments in your love life. Looks like we ’ ll both have interesting summers!
Hello. I need to disconnect my phone, please.
But it will help you keep fit.
Yes. There is. it has several sections, so It’s quite a read! It usually takes me a few hours to read it on Sunday morning.
Yes, yes. Everything's fine. Thank you very much, Becky.
I'd like a refund on this sweater.
Ok. Well, go to www.google.com, and type in Normandy Landing.
Professor Wang, what is non-tariff barrier?
but you said your dream was to be an entrepreneur, to be your own boss.
As far as the contract stipulations are concerned, there is nothing more. Thank you very much.
Nancy, please turn the TV down.
Why didn't you text me last night?
I have a complaint to make. I've just been badly treated by a rude maid.
We'd like to visit the factory. Can you show me the way?
While I am at it, would it be possible to switch paint colors?
Well, in a way yes. But I must say that even if I ’ m not completely happy in my work I always give 110 % I would never shirk my responsibilities. I suppose sometimes I expect too much too soon.
Our newest 15 - inch Pro is only $ 2,100.
first of all, I need you to do the drying up. I ’ m almost finished the washing up. I ’ m going to clean the cooker when I finish.
It's very nice of you.
Great. I'll get our plan started right away.
You know, I am poor at English, especially spoken English.
Hello, there. I've just started using your net banking and I'm looking for some information about my Commission Fund.
I look forward to more of the workshop.
These are Chucks.
Hey, Maggy, Did you hear about David?
What's that?
No. He had a mask on.
Are you hungry?
I think they are too sour.
It's nothing Nancy.
So, you ’ re just starting back. Maybe you ’ d better tell me a little more about your experience.
How high did the price go?
Sure, they can eat some chocolate. As long as they are exercising and eating mostly healthy foods, there's nothing wrong with having a small dessert.
What is the purpose for your visit?
Before I verify those, I need you to fill in some forms. Then, as I said, I need to see valid credentials, your occupation and income details...
Do you know where you're going to find your bedroom set?
Why bother? Just buy a new watch. It doesn't cost much. Besides, I just can ’ t put up with this thing any more.
Balista, pull me a ristretto.
Sorry.You have to buy your ticket at the next counter.
I'd like to change some US dollars into euros and I'd like to know today's exchange rate.
Okay, you get your funny one and I'll get my beautiful one.
I was thinking about getting some Chinese food.
I'm a comparative literature major.
I'm in the bathroom.
I do want to meet with you and take a look at your catalogue. We ’ re redecorating and are going to add some things.
Here is your ticket. Let's get in the museum.
Can I do anything else for you today?
I know what you're saying, but I have to go over the books with you before I go see our tax guy.
Two meters? That means that the high jump bar is above his head! Are any of them good at long-distance running?
Have you ever had any trauma?
What? I met him just before I took off from Kitty's, he said he was coming.
What time is the gym open, and what time does it close?
Mr. Smith, welcome to our factory.
Is that right? This is a brand new outfit.
Have you tried this one? It’s very good and you can download it for free on the internet. You can also download updates for free.
OK! I'll call security.
Why do you like old styles of dance?
So you say we can do it for 6000 dollars.
If you're staying at our hotel, you may sign the bill.
Five days every week, but if it is necessary, you need to work overtime once in a while
Actually, could I have some milk with that?
We have an hour-long lunch break from twelve to one. We can take coffee breaks during the day. My boss doesn't mind, as long as we get our work done on time.
I'd like to buy a bottle of Centrum, a dozen tooth brushes, some baby's wipes, and a small bottle of aspirin.
It should be, but there are too many options. My grades are good enough that I have a lot of choices, but after that...
Perhaps. He probably thinks you considered the gift a bribe for a higher grade.
The moon cake is round and looks like the full moon. That's why it's called the moon cake and the moon cake symbolizes family reunion and harmony.
And this kitchen is so clean. Did you help Johnny with that?
No, I don't have any plans to go to a formal dance any time soon, but I love the way it looks. I just want to try it on! What do you think about this? It's casual, yet sophisticated.
Oh, sorry! I forgot you get queasy with the sight of blood. I'll be right there.
I'm single.
Yes, for the most part. It doesn't feel as bad as my other ailments, anyway.
It has been going on for a while, but just started to get worse this morning.
Well, I need to get some female stuff.
If the goods are received in apparent good order and condition, the steamship company doesn ’ t have liability for pilferage. How do we protect ourselves?
Good evening, Mr. Wu.
Of course, which room number is it?
I'm going shopping.
I think this one fits you. It's the new fashion style.
Yes. I was told it would be activated and ready to use right away. So, what's gone wrong?
When have you been most motivated?
Don ’ t mix alcohol with this medication, but you can take it with or without food.
I noticed that the faucet in the kitchen is leaking.
Well, that's what I'm looking for myself.
I am more interested in a full-time position. However, I would also consider a part-time position.
That ’ s sheer robbery. I ’ m sure you can do better than that.
The total is 200 dollars. Would you like to put that on Sears card?
So I'll see you next time.
Yeah. It was hard. When do you take it?
Excuse me. Can I change my seat with you? I want to sit beside my friend.
No, I just for fun with my friends. We play two hand touch or flag football. We're too old to play tackle football.
The work is rather hard, but it's interesting.
Hello, Mr. Brown. How are you today?
Roses will be fine.
I won ’ t know anybody at that school.
Banana of course.
I don't really like this hotel that much.So tonight, now that we are so rich, tonight why don't we stay in the most expensive hotel in town?
Yeah, I was really struggling whether I should give you this nice little car. It was the last one they had and I really like it so much myself.
It's taking you forever to do my hair.
They're much better
I am clear about your sweet tooth, so I made a mixed fruit dish for you.
I'm going to go and get it right now.
I'm inviting my friends from work, you, my sister, and a few friends from school.
No problem at all.
OK. Well the problem is that the apartments in the heart of the city are usually more expensive.
I think I may get something too.
Just a moment, please, while I check. That's correct.You have a double room on the fifth floor.
Yes, it would be my first trip overseas. Actually, it's going to be my first time leaving the country.
Well, there's one thing.
I don ’ t have any symptoms of high blood pressure.
May I help you, Miss?
No, Ah... single sellers.
This one. How do you like it?
I'm starving, as I didn't eat yet today.
I mean that you're gullible. You shouldn't believe everything you read, especially on the Internet.
Oh no! A bear! Run, Tiger, run! Somebody call animal control!
Oh no! What shall I do?
No, but I ended up finding out later that night when I saw her with another man at a club near my home!
It's ready. Do you want any milk?
She is pretty. Many men praise her highly.
I'm glad to hear that. By the way, do you accept neutral packing?
All right, we accept the challenge. What about the commission? You know, we usually get a 20 % commission of the amount on every deal.
We will find you one. Wait a moment.
yes, I adore simple fashions. How does it look on me?
They turned me down.
Yes. But you need to pay $ 60 for it each month.
Just don't come looking to me for help.
Look, it's all water over the dam now. Let's leave it behind us.
Ok! I ’ m ready for my driving lesson! Should I start the car?
I see your info here on the screen. I'll hit just one button, sir, and you're cancelled.
I believe you can pass the exam with good preparation. Don't lose your heart.
I like xeroxing.
I am not sure. You can check with the finance department.
It's 30 degrees now. It was even colder this morning.
Amalgamated Trading Company. It's Swiss. Don't you think working at a foreign company would be glamorous?
Of course. Suit yourself.
Do you like it?
No. why don ’ t we describe and buy at the coffee shop next door?
OK. I will accept you for a three months-period of probation. Is this satisfactory?
Yes, the Sunset Hotel is three blocks away. Maybe you can ask them.
Hello. I'm now trying to take a bath, but there are too many buttons.Would you tell me how to use them?
Yup, because dance can relax myself.
I guess you are right.But what shall we do? I don't feel like sitting at home.
Sounds reasonable. Will 300 dollars be enough for a minimal deposit?
You didn't have an offer?
How are things with you?
I once went to Singapore by air. It was very exciting-but never again.
if you lose your job, you just have to go for a few months without buying all the junk you usually buy. If you live frugally, you ’ ll save plenty of money.
Hold on, with that wind, you ’ re going to catch a cold. Wear this scarf.
I ’ m going to England by flight BE987.
Thank you. I'm very glad to be here. As Ms. Tina said, the purpose of my presentation today is to familiarize you with the new EBB. As you probably know, EBB stands for Electronic Book Player. Our company put the original EBB on the market a year ago, but we have since all developed an improved model which we believe will be a big seller in both China and the U. S.
sure, I am a total internet junkie, I can't survive without internet.
You can stay if you catch up and stay caught up. Otherwise, I will find another renter.
I ’ m afraid I must. Look at it! It’s terribly dry.
Oh, that would be lovely. Shall we say seven o ’ clock?
You're so witty...
I am calling to thank you for giving me the interview for the Sales Manager position yesterday.
Problems are inevitable.
Yes, I noticed that you have professional training and team-building days. I like the idea of working for a company that invests in its staff.
Whatever you prefer.
I meant that they're very simple, easy to talk to.
All right. I ’ ll open one of those.
I want to go to the financial stree.
I ’ m Chen Ming.
Do you have a problem with your account?
Yes, maybe you can come on Friday.
Thanks honey! You have such great fashion sense.Now, what am I going to do with my hair?
Wow, the ferris wheel over there is so big. I'd like to take a ride on it.
Daniel, as a matter of fact, TV is bad for your health.
You should look at your claim form and see if it has been more than fourteen days since it was due. If it hasn ’ t been, we will still accept it.
A light brown suit and a pink tie today, and a light blue shirt and a blue tie yesterday. A perfect match!
At the Beijing Olympics, all four table tennis events were all-Chinese finals. A clean sweep again!
I'll call him and tell him you're here.
Wonderful! A modest, comfortable room. Ah, a beautiful window, through which I can see a beautiful scene, and hear the birds singing. How nice!
Yes, I found a better house near my office. I ’ m very satisfied with it. But I ’ m worrying.
Just tell me what you'd like, please.
Maybe we're walking in circles.
Dam it, I'm running out of money again, I really need to balance my budget and handle my money better.
Yes, of course. We have enough productivity. You can rest assured.
We are very interested in your printed pure silk scarves, so could you introduce us your prices?
That's fine. If you are travelling outside of Mainland China, Hong Kong and Macao we need to follow the SAFE rules. This means that you can exchange 2,000 USD or equivalent.
I can't. I am already behind the schedule. Besides, you know Mr. White. He would think that I was putting him on.
Good idea. That will help us to warm up.
Would you mind opening it?
She is threatening to evict us for not paying the full rent.
It's a one-bedroom, one-bathroom apartment.
Sure! It's not a real figure, of course. It's just an estimate based on rehiring costs, and the potential lost revenue that results from incompetence.
Well, speak of the devil.
Winning is a piece of cake to me.
Yes, Mr. Ransom? This is Karl Miller. How may I help you?
We will need to know who will be driving the van.
Come on, Josh, don't be such a chicken. If you like her, you've got to tell her. Maybe she likes you.
I can't believe it. How can that be? How old are you?
That's because regular buses don't stop here.
Pardon me. Does your hotel have a fitness facility?
I just hope he doesn't start bragging again!
I want to buy a drink.
Hey, that's not fair. I did as much work as you.
It'll be a national campaign starting next week.
That ’ s really great, jill. So, what do you do there exactly?
How do you think TaiWan's economy is doing?
That sounds cool. Do you mind if I recommend myself for the job?
I don't need a car. I walk to work.
These two sections need to be re-written, Jerry. The last guy that did this really mixed things up.
Listen, I really don't know why you're making this into such a big issue. It's only a small piece of garbage in a large space. It's not like there's garbage everywhere. Besides, someone will come along to clean it up at some time or another.
How would you like to pay, Ms. Jones?
Don ’ t worry. You ’ ll be fine.
Then a piece of apple pie, please.
Ok. I'll get ready and leave. I'll see you in about 20 minutes.
Do you have change for a hundred?
Hey! Where are you going...?
So, I want to recommend them for a raise. Fred is promoted to be the assistant of manager in marketing department and David to be director of office.
That's right. We didn't issue it to you, but technically we are buying it from you. So, we become involved.
He is so humorous.
May I interrupt you for a moment?
Good morning, Sue.
I've already seen nine of them and, as they say, eight is enough!
It seems that it is a key department for providing materials and transportation.
What do you think is the most important qualification for a salesperson?
I guess that's because so many people drop out of that class.
Do you have anything in the middle section? I want a good view, but sitting too close hurts my eyes.
What kind of test is this?
Yes, sir. You're going to have a great time.
That's okay. I'm here a little early. Is it possible to check in right now?
Oh, hello, yes, arm... I've just lost my bank stuff.
You just pop'em in in the morning, take them out at night, and then throw them away. No cleaning!
I'm sorry to say I'm not familiar with processing management information, but I'm sure I could learn quite quickly.It can't be too difficult, and I've got a quick mind. I can handle any problem you give me.
Mr.Smith has changed his job.
I ’ m renting this apartment out for $ 1050 a month.
At nine thirty-six.And the nine eighteen gets to London at nine fifty-five, the ten thirty-two at eleven nine.
Getting 30 minutes of exercise a day is important. If you smoke, you need to stop.
Thank you. Can you please put my luggage in the overhead bin for me?
It's true. He is a hard worker.
I've been learning to play go recently. It's an amazing game!
You can expect to earn sixty-five thousand dollars per year.
Yes. We've got plenty of tables in stock. Will you have a look at this one?
I have just changed my plan.
Don't mention it. It is my duty.
It's four o'clock in the morning in Chicago now, but it's time to go to bed in Shanghai.
I like orange better.
So sorry to hear that. What's wrong with you?
I'd like to exchange 5000 Singapore dollars into the US dollars please.
Thanks a lot. You ’ Ve been very helpful.
I believe you have charged me twice for the same thing. Look, the figure of 6.5 dollar appears here, then again here.
How long will you be out of class?
Yes. He's in the line-up.
You can win a good impression of the interviewer in this way.
What're you so afraid of? Just tell her what you're feeling about her.
I want to tell you I've put in my notice.
Oh, Paul is very easy-going and friendly.
Even if they break down, they're still works of art.
I understand. I used to live in a dorm with four people. I was great in some aspects. We always went out and and had fun together. But on the other hand, when I wanted some quiet time, and people kept talking and laughing aloud, it was torturous. For me a room to myself, even a small one, is ideal. Though I don't mind sharing an apartment with somebody.
Me, either. But, it's for sure that the children market is a really big one.
vegetarians are always delightful.
How much do they pay?
In the downtown, near the square.
I am indeed. What can you tell me?
Right, that makes sense. What's the average age?
What did you do this weekend, Kate?
No, Liz. I asked you specifically. Don ’ t you remember?
A new car. And I've got a small family, two children, and I haven't got a lot of money and...
Have you brought your student card?
Good morning. You are speaking to the property manager.
I know. She won't change my grade.
Yes, that sounds right for me.
You're selling invoking subscriptions like nobody's business. And we don't even have a working demo yet.
Hey Julie, you want to go grab something to eat?
Your doctor has requested a check of your white blood count.
Here it is. I usually use the machine, but there seems to be such a long queue at the moment.
Could you drop it off on Sunday night?
anyway, how was your such, Catherine?
That's because you did well.
Forget it! That's what friends are for! Besides, I have a VIP card for a discount.
Where is the house?
Can I still catch T107 for Xiamen?
It's not all techno music. It's not a special techno night.
But how can we identify someone if we don't know their race?
If you are employed by us, how are you going to do your part of the work?
Well, I want a note from the doctor on this one. And, to be honest, if this continues, we may not be able to employ you here.
You've had so long a flight.
No problem, is this blue ok?
Hi Sarah, how are you?
Thank you.But it is too bright for me.
The paper editorials always stick to the quick.
Sure, you can, but you ’ ll be charged for $ 10.
I intended to, but as far as I know, all the skirts of this kind here are of the same size.
how long will you be staying in the UK?
Great. I shall also need a copy of your own ID and the Warrant Letter, you can fill in one here.
Hey, where's Cindy?
Have you received any scholarships?
What are you doing that for?
Why don ’ t you try it on and see how you feel about it?
What about the weather in Boston?
Sure. 878 Fennel South.
Is that so? We're using lures, and the fish are biting those too.
I have a big date tonight.
Can we have two a joining double room, sir?
In my country, we go to school from 8 o'clock in the morning until five in the afternoon.
That is very nice of you.
Yes, it seems to me we have come quite a long way. However, let me take a close look at the final draft.
Better, thank you, doctor.
I like to go to the movies. What do you do in your free time?
Apples and pears, one kilo for each af them, please.
Not too much. I'm looking to rent an apartment.
The tests showed nothing wrong. a slight by infection.
Well! I guess people don ’ t find him so peculiar anymore.
I think so. I think you'd better make a phone call to see whether there is a table available.
Around 30 minutes.
did you take a photo with her?
By the way, can I renew the borrowing?
Hi Isabel! You wanted to see me?
Has your son started school yet, Tom?
I'm so glad that the Spring Festival is near at hand.
Let's see... That was about six years ago.
I got the movie when it came out on DVD, do you want to come over?
OK. I have several seats available. Would you like a window seat or an aisle seat?
I see. So let me get this straight. If I borrow let ’ s say, ten thousand dollars, how much will I have to pay each month?
Please try the shop there. They might have them.
OK, that's fine. Thank you.
I want to deposit cash.
Yes, I also need all the letters we received from them.
That sounds great! I ’ d love to! Here is my address. Pick me up at eight?
Thank you. Please confirm your information and sign your name in the blank.
About $ 25, tips not included.
I see. Is this yours?
Not yet, I must water the garden first.
Oh, Peter. You really should go and play ball yourself rather than watching games.
Ahahah!!! Help me! Help! Bring the boat closer! The shark is coming straight towards me!
This really has been a wonderful holiday for us. Shall we take a walk around the pond or into those woods for a while?
Thank you for the calling. Bye-bye.
Do you have enough time to get the right amount of sleep?
We hope that our cooperation will continue.
Yes, we can do that. Can we borrow the chairs from the lunchroom also?
That's the top magazine in America and is popular with young people. OK. It is totally 30 dollars.
Here we go, Mr Waterstone. Here's your money and your interest note.
Ok, Are you checking out tomorrow?
I am sorry, but we can't advance shipment. The manufacturers are fully committed. They have no stock on hand.
Let me pay for it now.
I ’ m just going to stay at PCC.
Is it stimulating?
Can you help me set up my voicemail message? I just got this service and I am not really sure what I am supposed to say.
You can also get a cash advance up to 1,000 dollars on this card.
Okay. I will book this flight.
The journey around the M25 is 33 miles and then 3 extra miles to get to the airport. So how many miles is that together?
Great idea. There is a travel agency nearby who would love to be our sponsor. It's a perfect chance for them to promote ethnic tourism.
I'd like to see the menu.Would you get me one, please?
actually, the woman playing Ophelia is a past classmate of mine.
What's your apartment like?
That is absolutely incorrect! I was out on the town Monday night.
I brought my transcript from my first year.Here. And here is the list of courses I plan to take in the fall.
No, that won ’ t do. I ’ ll take this smoked ham you have here.
Yeah, I guess I did. They're going to buy invoking?
Have you got the number? I'll call them right now.
Have fun getting ripped off!
Good afternoon. Lotus Catering Company. Lilian speaking. May I help you?
The compact? Why do you think that one is better than the others?
William. W-I-L-L-I-A-M.
I did it.
Sound nice, I will try it.
That makes sense. It's important to take care of your health early in life.
I just had a complete physical examination and I am in top condition.
Hi, I want to see the Terra Cotta Warriors in Xi'an. Could you please remind me when we are arriving at that stop?
well, if it's not broken, then you need to learn how to vacuum better, because it doesn't look like you've vacuumed for ages!
Hey, Frank, there is that Janet Check.
I won't be long. No more than ten minutes. Why don't you go ahead and I'll meet you in the park?
I can't afford it.
Hello, can I speak to Alice, please?
How's this one?
Harry, do you like the opera?
I don't think we'll be able to find a taxi very easily during hush hours. Let's just take the bus.
I didn ’ t see it.
but surely they won't fire you! You're one of the most experienced managers here!
Tomorrow is Friday. It's going to be the weekend.
That ’ s almost perfect.
Nice to meet you, too. Where are you from?
You'd better have it fixed.
Just go through the number eight to ticket barrier over there. A train will be in directly.
Wait a minute. I found there were two printings. The paperback books must be much cheaper.
Do you have hypertension? I would have thought you were too young.
The western films about America's cowboys, Indians and early settlers.
But I don't like playing the piano. And the homework keeps me busy enough.
You wouldn't know a good movie even if it bit you on the nose.
I like the country too. It's quite famous for its culture.
What's your method of learning?
Yes. Can you tell him Bob White called?
Of course, all the workers here are able to swim, and they will come to your aid quickly.
I know that I should learn how to save more, but I hope that we can spend a little on ourselves sometimes.
My goodness! Your family must live in a huge house.
What's its name?
I've only washed my white clothes.
Listen, I'd better get back to the grindstone.
Sure. How do you like your suit?
I've just got the examination results. I am afraid you haven't passed.
Well, I'm only here for 3 days, so I think 500 GAP should be plenty.
Fine. I have your letter and I've made some notes.
Oh man! I ’ Ve been starving myself for days now and I haven ’ t lost an ounce!
Come over here. I will test your eyes. First cover your left eye like this, and when I point, please read the chart from the top, and go as far as you can telling me which way the “ E ” points.
You had been walking for 6 hours, isn ’ t that boring?
Do I need to pay anything? Like a handling fee, or something?
Here you are. Thank you and have a nice evening.
Yes, there are three stops left.
What about the one after that?
It's a shame.Will this afternoon be all right? But I can only spare you an hour and a half today, from four o'clock.
Which one is cheaper?
How do I do that?
It's as plain as the nose on your face. They're dating each other.
Certainly, where will you be coming from?
That one, the one that says, “ Mail. ”
I feel that I can see more when I pedal a bicycle, but when I feel lazy, I drive my car.
I am going to send you to a pulmonary specialist who can run tests on you for asthma.
Would you like to apply for one right now?
I see. So great.
I see, and how about the documents and the information?
I don ’ t want you to be worried, but our son has some bad habits now. He says painful words everyday.
Who do you think will win the championship?
What was your duty like in your previous job?
I want to open an account.
That's great! When will we go?
Would you like to rent the house?
Ok, thank you! Where should I buy them?
But do you really mean that the second - hand goods are just as good as the new ones?
Which model is the best seller of this year?
I haven't got enough for prosecuting him.
That's okay. I can explain a little.
And the other class?
Oh, it's a service charge.
I'm in the middle seat.
Did anyone get hurt?
Last time I tried a pin curl perm and a foam permanent. Set the wave a little looser than usual, please.
Are you working under pressure?
That will be 80 Yuan altogether. Here is your invoice.
It is the Colorado River. You can go down the river in a boat if you wish.
You know what really drives me crazy? When I ask for soft boiled eggs, and they overcook them, so they come out hard boiled! How can you dipyour toast into a hard boiled egg?
Hello, Personal Banking. How may I help you?
You're lucky there was no lasting damage. I'll set up an appointment for you to come back in five days. We'll take those stitches out then. So long.
No, not at all. I stopped taking painkillers after a couple of days.
We would love to sit outside. Thanks for your help!
I'll bet you were a little embarrassed.
The winter is very rainy, I don't like the rainy day.
I think I was wrong.
Maybe not, thank you all the same then.
Single room with a bath room, please. I would like a room with a view of the whole city.
Do you feel that you are exceptionally good at anything in particular.
Okay. The model number is 6594 - c.
Thanks. Try not to work too hard while I ’ m away!
You won't need it. Stanley, my best man, is going to treat everybody!
Yes, I have. I collect stamps, Chinese stamps as well as those from other countries.
Well. I was wondering if anyone has turned in a passport?
Is IKEA affordable?
Sure that sounds good. Do you have any cakes?
When will you come to pick up your order?
I agree with you, sir, but all I do is work here.
Welcome to IBA. Do you need any assistance?
Isn't there an earlier one?
I hear the beaches in Thailand are beautiful.
Oh, Kate! I ’ m sorry. It completely slipped my mind!
No! Five minutes I promise!
Yes. I know many ambassadors in Chinese Embassy and British Embassy in China.
Next monday. Bring your resume and diploma with you.
Do you eat a lot of fruit and vegetables in you country?
Science? What are you talking about? Forget about your science, OK? It's a picnic!
Do I need to include my zip code in the address?
It really does, I can't wait.
Because they are direct communication with another person, and there ’ s a time limit. This time limit is the most serious problem for foreigners, even for those who know lots of English.
Yes, that is why I never drink it.
What I need you to do first is fill in these forms, with as much detail as possible. Then we can get you a new card.
If you're so hungry, why don't you ask someone else for money?
Yeah. I think everyone should go easy on driving.
How about the subway?
I will. Merry Christmas.
I was wondering when trash collection day was.
It’s such a large firm. Do we have our own staff restaurant?
I don't think so. All the souvenirs of the Olympic Games are very hot right now.
Of course, he is a man with a history.
My number is 627-555-1234.
Just 10 more minutes.
But I prefer warm weather.
Let me give you a hand. The author is...
Now or later?
But if I have more than 55 pounds, what can I do?
Hello, China Southern Airlines. Can I help you?
That's as it should be. When will it be paid in and credited to our account?
Food is less expensive in a cafeteria, because you serve yourself.
Are you kidding me? Becky? She ’ s a real bitch.
OK, can I see the note and some ID, please?
Do we have to type out our homework?
Yeah. They're usually this big.
To be a revolutionary needs great courage!
Of course, I will.
Excuse me, I'm looking for your 3 - liter Pepsis, the ones that are on sale this week. There don't seem to be any in the soft drink section.
Yes. Players usually need to bring a player down to stop him from moving forward with the ball. This is called ” tackling ”, as in football.
I have absolutely nothing so far.
In that case, we have to stop ordering if a reduction can't be made. Please reconsider.
I told you to get this consignment out last week.We can't very well run a light bulb conference without any light bulbs, can we? What am I going to do with you?
Sure, it's easy. First of all, the secret to a successful oral presentation is to keep things simple. People are listening and they usually don't have a long attention spans. Stick to about three or four points, give an overview of the points, then present them one by one, and then summarize at the end. Be straightforward and organized and you're sure to be remembered.
50000 yuan ' What a deal! That will, of course, include tax, licence, and registration fee.
I love the dancing figures. I'll take this music box.
What do you think the biggest worry for our future is?
Don't worry about it. Just leave it to the insurance companies.
Do you know how to use a PC to process the management information?
I guess that makes sense. I just think it would make more sense to take the leftovers home.
Excuse me, can you tell me where is the taxi stand?
I see. By the way, China was more than once ruled by foreign tribes in history. Did they issue their own coins in China?
I preferred the forward with pictures of him side-by-side with monkeys.
I think It’s important to be successful in a field you are truly interested in, not something that other people force you to be interested it.
The Grand Hotel?
How long does it take?
That's great. Every little bit counts. And we don't need the parking space. I guess we could rent it out.
Oh, this one... Here.
Sometimes it's wise to be direct with people. Come on, just tell me. Don't beat around the bush, please!
Will you please take a seat? Mr. Smith, have you seen the display of our electronic products in the exhibition hall downstairs?
I think is looks great. I really like the light colors you have chosen. The pictures are nice too. Did you bought any new furniture?
I don't understand some things.
I guess so. But the music is too loud. I don't mind getting out and meeting people, but next time I'll do it in a park.
Not really. You should try to not eat foods high in calories, salts or saturated fats. Stay away from oily food and artificial flavors.
Look, I'm really tired tonight. I don't feel like cooking dinner.
We have to know that this ticket is really yours.
Nothing much. What are you up to?
Great, I want it spicy.
Yeah how ’ d you know?
Good night, madam.
I'm very sorry, sir. I'll ask the manager to take care of this.
Good. I will have hot chocolate.
Sixty two cars. Oath. Do they know how many casualties yet?
We have a lot of other applicants for this position. Why do you think that you deserve to get the job?
No, I haven ’ t. I have never eaten jellyfish before.
We usually eat chicken, pork and beef. You eat these meats a lot in your country too, don't you?
Not yet. To tell you the truth, I don't know how to write it. I've considered it for several days.
Well, this might be silly. But I just can't get him off my mind. And I can't help missing him.
What? I only stayed three nights.
Do you have desserts?
It's settled then.
I guess I'll try a chocolate one first.Mmmm... this is delicious.Are they hard to make?
Yes, and they have a sale on now.
Hello, is it necessary to do warm-up exercise? I can't wait to dive into the water.
I've been wearing my hair long for years, but now I'd like to try some kind of modern style. What do you suggest for a woman like me, that is, with hair like mine?
That ’ s true. But as a woman, I ’ m glad that even though I don ’ t want any children, I at least have a choice in how many children I have. On the other hand, I can ’ t imagine what China would be like if there weren ’ t a one-child policy!
Did you use to work at NYU?
20,000 RIB.
I'm really sick of you.
I just put it on the chair a while ago, but now it's gone.
You can't write with one hand and draw with the other.
Sure. Look here. Canada is north of the United States.
I'm so surprised, B. Why did you decide to end your marriage suddenly?
Point taken. Hopefully one day, we'll live in an interplanetary society.
When was your reservation?
That's a good idea. Thanks a lot.
It was 36 hours ago.
I can ’ t, Tim. I hope someday you can find some way to understand I ’ m only doing this for you. I don ’ t really wanna go but, deep in my heart I know this is the kindest thing to do.
OK, 200 USD, please.
Really? You guys must be really tight.
If you have higher deductibles, your premium are lower, because you will pay more of the claim and we will pay less.
I'd like to have a shave.
Johnny, are you just sitting around again?
Can you help me with my timesheet?
That'd be great! Thank you.
They sure are.
Good for you, Leslie!
He would think you were crazy, Caroline.
It’s alright, I will take you through the procedure. Are you transferring funds to a company or an individual account?
Well, it has to be cheap. I don't want a really expensive apartment.
Ted. Oh, and could you give her this document for me?
Maybe by then it will be too late.
Sounds not bad! Better performance isn ’ t just about doing a lot more. It is about focusing on the right things to do.
It's us.
Does it usually take very long for the owners to get back to you with an acceptance?
We'd like to buy some furniture for our new house.
Most people in Montreal speak French.
Yes, it helps me but I just have to wait and let my system do the work.
Because they are too violent. Some of them are even disgusting.
Her room is very neat and clean.
We hope that this dispute can be settled through friendly negotiation without its being submitted for arbitration.
That's why he's very popular among girls.
If you want to cross here, be my guest. I don't feel like dodging cars and scooters!
Either they go to a public place such as a hotel, a restaurant, or a club, or to the home of the brid
I need to talk with Marry.
I like a person who works hard. I don ’ t like lazy people.
Artistic tapestry is the highest form of expression of the rug weaving art, an exquisite handicraft of superb artistry in typical Chinese style.
You don't need to introduce yourself, Yang. You're famous.
Yeah, that's a good idea, and you like to cook.
Would you please help me send these clothes to the laundry?
If you do get lost, just ask someone in the building to point the way.
Not me. I have to have my TV and watch whatever comes on.
Thank you. I wonder whether I can enjoy the life insurance and health insurance.
First you add the washing powder then you add the clothes.
Sounds great, I'd very much like to accept your invitation, thanks, when?
I drove a car before, but only once.
The maximum maturity period is a year, but it also cannot exceed the maturity on the certificates used as collateral.
I want a bedroom with full bath, and it'll be better if the bedroom is on the sunny side.
Welcome to the electronic age! I can run you through it ; it's what I'm here for.
It's a ETV palace! I'm glad I brought my platinum card.
No wonder! Who is the bridegroom?
You are welcome, goodbye.
Hi, I would like to send this package to China, and these postcards as well.
It's my pleasure to talk with you.
Yes, I didn ’ t finish work until 9:00 pm.
I studied French. Anyway... that's enough about me.How about you? Were you born in L. A.?
Sure, I ’ d be glad to help you straighten things out. Why don ’ t I stop by at about seven thirty?
Are you in Mrs Green ’ s class?
Look, you can still learn a lot from watching television, you just need to be smart when you're watching. Filter the information and decide if you believe what you are hearing or not.
Right, a disco is a place where people dance according to nonstop recorded music...
here's information about our competitor's recent market activities...
Mr. : I'm asking the class to read page 10 to themselves. Then I'm going to ask some questions about the passage.
No, I haven't. I need help quick. It hurts really badly.
Okay, let me see what I can do for you.
Why are you so excited?
We have been on good terms. She is a very nice girl. But she got in Dutch with her boss. I don ’ t have the heart to see her pounding the pavements.
I don ’ t know.
I ’ m reading about Michael Milliken, the Bond King.
Hi, good to see you. What can we assist you with today? Going away on business again?
Ar, Yes. There ’ s a big cavity.
He's an old antique, very serious.
You can catch it on Altadena Drive.
The final and midterm are 40 percent of your grade ; homework, attendance, and quizzes total 60 percent.
Have you ever run into a person who tries bleed you white?
It’s easy to say, but I will try.
Where is the peeler?
I ’ m itching for moving!
We have made some adjustment on the prices. And this is renewed price list.
I want to buy some cloth to make a curtain. Which one is better?
No, Officer, not at all.
Can I have the receipt? Just in case I can trace it if something goes wrong.
It seems to be. How about you today?
Let ’ s see... If I won the lottery, I would buy two tickets for a trip around the world.
And? What does it say? Isn't there a name?
well, I am a little bit out of shape. I think I should get some exercise to keep fit. what kind of service do you offer?
Does it ever get that cold on here?
I ’ d like to speak with Mr. Robert Smith.
I ’ m happy that we ’ Ve come to an agreement.
Well, I still haven't finished my Christmas shopping. Do you want to go shopping with me this weekend?
Well, we've been waiting for our baggage for about one hour.
Here's twenty yuan.
I import canned food.
When will the plane reach for the morning flight?
Health insurance company and policy No?
I think you've lost it.
Not really. It pinches my toes.
Come on baby, stop trying to pretend like a man. If you go there, you are sure to like them.
Would you mind if I smoked?
I have no idea. Maybe you can give me some advice.
yes, cats are always gentle. and they don't need a lot of space since they're small.
I know. Three dollars for milk.
What do you mean? What are you talking about?
Darling found out he was having a fling, and one new girl found out about Darling she dumped him too.
I would like to get a double cheeseburger.
No, I might have a soup if It’s a cold winter day.
Oh, not too bad. I'm just glad the weekend's finally here.
He said he would celebrate his girlfriend's birthday.
Sure. This one here just came out. It's got great 3D graphics and a cool story line. It's also got a multiplayer function so you can play against other people on the Internet.
Hey, Philip! You won ’ t believe this!
I pray that he actually makes things better in this country.
Sure, we provide semi-annual bonus, a small bonus at Spring Festival, four weeks paid vacation a year.
Yes, I do it a lot.but I don't like doing dishes.what about you, do you like cooking and then cleaning up afterwards?
We do not allow any request for a loan against personal security. This is a common regulation. But we may consider it if you can provide a reliable guarantor.
Yes. And you're Paul, right? Paul Hill?
Here are some.They ' re on special sale these days.
But you promised to play chess with me this afternoon.
Will that work?
It may be part-time work as a waitress or something.It would be illegal, but sometimes waitresses make a good salary.
Yes. I ’ m Tony. Thank you very much.
Roast pork chops with a bottle of red wine, please. Is soup served here?
It's C261.
On the whole, not too bad.
Yep. The steaks and chicken are marinated and I also bought hamburger buns.
What's wrong with her.
Hello, hot water overflowed from the bathtub. Would you help me?
I have to get to Chicago by tomorrow and you're telling me that there are no flights?
By the way, how much does it cost to send a package to Taiwan?
Well, we don't usually do it, but... I believe we can accommodate you on this.We will do the installation for free. Because we appreciate your business.
I usually just have a bowl of cereal.
We should take a large map and highlight those cities. What is each of them famous for?
You think she's out of my league?
Yes, there is an underground car park near the supermarket.
Do I need stamps?
I prefer a one-bedroom apartment.
Why? I'd like to see what's on that channel.
Do you like your margarita with salt or no salt?
What should you do if you find out a man may has an illegal departure in exit control point?
when is the first meeting then?
A chess board! Daddy is going to teach you how to play!
It’s hard to say.Just so-so.
I didn ’ t think about it like that.
Don't worry, your baby is in my home.
Mark should clean it. It's his turn.
It is a long story. Basically, she thought I had laughed at her while I didn't.
Maybe you are right, so I will try my best to find a suitable job.
I'm sorry it took so long.
I ’ d like to take this opportunity to thank you for everything you did for me.
Cool! Also amongst the winners is Petra, in Jordan, Mach Pitch in Peru and the pyramid in Chichenitza in Mexico.
I think you ’ re absolutely right. Ok, that ’ s decided then!
then what's your problem?
So, if for some reason I was having a bad month and spent a little too much I could just pay the minimum?
I'm sorry to hear that. Would you like the assignments from English class?
our pleasure. Please fill out this form, leaving your address and telephone number.
yes, I am the guy...
May I suggest a limo? It's nice to pamper yourself.
Which ones? Let me have a look. Wow, look at that! That brings back memories... That?
No, it looks great.Why are you always like this when you're shopping? You know it looks good.
Oh... wow. That ’ s really pretty.Jess would love that. But... I was thinking of something a little more delicate, perhaps a necklace?
I need to check out this magazine.
Hello, Finn. I did a wonderful job and I was employed. How about you?
I'd appreciate that.
Would you like to have some more wine?
My pronunciation is not very good. It's L-I-N, Lin.
I really need to apply for a driving permit.
It seems to be from chapter six to chapter ten.
That means that you talk to them? In which language?
Is there something wrong with Sons?
Are you free on the thirteenth in the afternoon?
I recommend you leave it a little long on top.But we should take in the back and sides a bit more. That's more fashionable now.
What time does the museum close? Any idea?
Look, I need another drink. Do you want one?
Well, we'll certainly miss you in Boston.
I know it's true, Sandy. But still some people lose control.They start to gamble, and they can't stop.
What appliances are you talking about?
You mean they ’ re kicking you out?
Thanks. I really appreciate it. Thanks so much.
Of course. I spent so much time at my old workplace that I got to know them all very well. They were like family to me.
Hi B. How are you?
Don ’ t worry. That ’ s just a part of being a teenager.
a crate of beer? Why do we need that?
Jack, you should have known in general the situation of our company now.
I guess I should have told you.
Is it because of the bad weather? It's been really miserable for the past tew days.
Good morning, Room Service. May I help you?
Oh, I think Shanghai is much more crowded than London.
Yes, this is the tenant of apartment ten. I guess my kitchen sink is clogging up again, and so is the bathtub.
Look, just give me your insurance and number and I'll take care of it.
Then I'll tell folks the food's ready. Come and get it! I've always wanted to say that!
Shall I get you another cup of coffee?
How many people have flung their hats into the ring?
Then we turn south and come back to the car park along this path.
Oh, no. Too much work. I hate to sweat. It's so gross.
No, I didn't. That car was too fast.
All right. You need to have an interview with our manager, Mr. McBride. Let's go to his office.
Don't worry, young man. Lat me give you an examination. First let me take a look at your throat. Open your mouth and say'ah '.
What do you mean, Mom? For breaking your best china?
How did you find him at last?
You don't have to restrict yourself to a taxi. We can offer you a private vehicle.
There is a wonderful opera today. I'd like to see it.
He told me so himself.
i guess you're right. More often than not, people go there only for convenience. The foods may taste good, but generally speaking, they are high in calories, salt and fat.
I can't wait to play in the water. My feet are burning when I stand on the sand.
I'm totally vibing with this the conference.
Peas and carrots.
Yes, I think so. I ’ d like to have one medium steak, and a bottle of wine.
that's better. This way we will both have money to take a cab home, otherwise, you would probably have to walk.
I went there in August, and it was hot. But I was told autumn is the best season.
He can barely make ends meet.
We'll meet again in a few days.
OK. I would like to book a ticket for that one.
Let ’ s have you come back in a few days and see how you feel.
wow, the duck looks so delicious. Should we order it, Rick?
I made sure to vote for him.
Small, but it should be enough for our needs. I think.
Well, I guess I exercise about two hours a day. I do aerobics three times a week, and the other days I play badminton 1 with my husband. I always feel good afterward.
I'm going to Nanchang.
If you want to live much longer you have to give up smoking.
I'd be very glad to show you around, but I'm very busy right now. Could you come back about 3 thirty?
Great. I have also been thinking of getting one. Do you think you could ask Jane to have a quiet word with Margaret? My birthday is not that far away.
What we really should be making investment in is the Euro. I've followed the Euro's progress over the last quarter, I think it's about time to buy in.
David took me to it last week. I thought it was a little sick.
The price seems acceptable for me. But I want to check whether you can supply the carpets now if we order some?
I've got a schedule!
Thanks. You too.
I'd like to taste some local dishes. What would you recommend?
English and computer skills are comparatively important to this position, especially in the starting period. What ’ s your ability in these two fields?
Yes, Chinese people love drinking tea so much. Some even claim they can't live without tea.
I see. Do the machines have soap in them?
Oh, yes, how's it?
But where's the switch?
yes. I needed a large one. Before, I had a separate refrigerator and freezer, but this has both combined into one.
Well, they ’ Ve got the money and she ’ s going tomorrow for treatment.
Can you speak Japanese?
I think that I might like it, but I am still thinking about it.
You can get your supplies upstairs from Mrs. Horn.
Well, that is the chart showing our company ’ s organizational structure.
Well, here are the notes.
Really! So it is just near my office building. Great! How much is the rent?
Sure, my name is Ana Ferris. Don ’ t worry about it. it happens to me all the time. I ’ m terrible with names too.
Whoa! Who said you got the job?
Maybe. But it still gets on my nerves.
You look bright-eyed and bushy-tailed.
You might make a few enemies this way.
Can Join you, Katherine? I do want to have a try.
I enjoy Rock and R & B.
I think you should buy a bottle of moisturizer.
Are you nuts? What would my friends think if they see me in a hired car?
I am an engineer in a mechanized farm.
Yes, sir. We have your reservation. Could you fill out these forms, please?
Which team do you think will emerge with the last laugh in this World Cup?
Could be better.
Lots of elderly people want peace and quiet in their old age, but young people want an unconstrained life.
That's right. They do not appreciate its value and consider it to be a luxury.
It’s story is just an excuse to get the girl dressed up in different tight outfits.
I'd like to check in, PLS.
I learned about different tax laws and how they work.
All right. I'm nearly ready.What time does the bus leave?
Yes. to our first anniversary and many more to come. Cheers!
We share the same desire. Have you seen the display of our products in the exhibition hall downstairs?
So you ’ d better explore the place the day before and at the same time, look around to see what the employees are wearing. So the next day you will arrive early for the appointment.
There are many stores selling handcrafts in Paris. Our store is wellknown for vase, table wear and jewelry boxes. You can take your time and choose whatever you like.
No. Just want to relax a little bit. You don't have to win the lottery to relax, do you?
I think that 30000 yuan would be fair for this car.
I am so excited!
I was wondering if I could borrow the company van for a fundraiser this weekend.
Are you looking for something special?
As far as I know, insomnia is usually caused by stress. Are you stressed at all?
Regarding what exactly?
I am responsible for verifying your information before you come for the interview. What, uh, position do you want... uh... to do?
Bill, I must tell you the truth. You failed the English exam again.
that dress looks lovely on you, but It’s not very practical, is it?
It works better than any medicine, Lily. I'll make you a glass right now, and you'll finish it!
New York Times. I read it everyday.
I was told that it took a lot of time and effort to apply.
How do you usually sell your products now?
we should also get a tube of toothpaste and a bar of soap. Let ’ s get a tub of ice cream too. We can treat ourselves.
Yes, I do not want to see ur sleeping in the office.
Now it's a question of getting there. I need a flight to Paris on Sunday evening and a hotel in Paris for 3 nights. I have to be in Frankfurt by 11 on Thursday morning. And I will need a hotel for one night. I will head home on Friday.
Visa, Master Card, or American Express?
Yes. What about you?
I don ’ t like it.It takes up too much time and I really hate having it clean up after the meal. I can ’ t stand doing the washing up, drying up and putting all the dishes and cutlery away.
Excuse me. How long has it been since the business was founded?
Let's walk around the lake first, shall we?
Oh, really? are there any snakes?
Her dress looks funny.
And you got them off the Net?
I use a soft bristle toothbrush.
Yes I am. I got married five years ago.
That ’ s way too much.
Ah, well, we have no choice.
Just call me Miao Dou, Please.
I don ’ t understand. You ’ re buying and selling money?
Why are you so pessimistic?
Thank you just the same.
What's the temperature?
I ’ Ve been taking vitamin C and zinc and trying to get some rest.
Enough, David! I can't wait anymore. Let's go right now!
I hope I can do something for you.
My present monthly salary is $ 1,500.
In what way can we solve the problem?
That's right. You never know what you're missing out if you don't read the memos.
Yes, corrugated cardboard boxes.
I'm going to PCC.
No, I wouldn't worry about you.
scientists are always delightful.
Are you going to the cafeteria downstairs?
Hey, did you hear about Jessica's party this weekend?
It's no big deal.
You? Play badminton? That's unbelievable! You are shorter than a racket.
I really love this meal.
Well, don ’ t just sit there, do something. Come and help me in the kitchen.
I'm afraid there's a bit of a problem. In fact, he's booked up the whole week except tomorrow afternoon.
Any time after 2 pm today would be good for me.
We would like to do it in accordance with an F. O. B.
Yes, smoking or non-smoking?
They're only three thousand yuan.
I don't blame you. Perhaps you could sublet it.
I can't stand the stupid guy any longer. It ' s unbelievable!
Were you able to contact the owners about my counter-offer?
I guess so. I live next door but one, and hope you'll drop in now and then.
I ’ m afraid he won ’ t make old bones.
I matched the description of a robbery suspect.
Believe me, he is the first-class.
Oh! It's perfect. I think I'll take it. Would you wrap it, please?
All right. Wait a minute.
We have been over this a hundred times! We are not getting a pet!
Because Myra was cheating on exams.and she spoke back rudely.
It sounds good now, but I'm traditional. I want the degree, so I wouldn't have accepted the offer.
Oh, yes. Quite a bit. But we are especially interested in your products.
Actually, I ’ d prefer not to be.
I've been thinking about this for a while now.
Really? I thought he loved his wife very much.
Hello. Is this Ann?
No, no, no. I'm not interested in literature.
Yes, here's the menu. You can order from reception.
Will you be going back to Australia soon?
Don't worry. It is a test of physical endurance, intelligence. Just to finish it is considered a victory for most.
But the water has to be kept at 34 degrees so that the minerals can be absorbed by your body.
It's near the Wall Street, a bit far from there. Why not get on the car
ok, we'll be expecting you at 11:30. See you then.
Well, the brown one is beautiful indeed, but I think the black one will suit you better.
Business is booming. I understand you want to meet up with me next week. How ’ s your schedule looking?
These books were due two weeks ago.
I ’ ll have to try it. You know how I am about Italian food! What ’ s the name?
My name is David White.
Is it a two-pin socket?
Good Morning, I have a bad cough, and I want to see an internist.
Hi, Sandy. It’s Walter Knight. I need to book some time with Mr. Crane.
I ’ m afraid he's not in.
So, what do you feel like eating then?
I've had enough of that!
I thought she'd be happy.
Is it gonna to rain tomorrow?
I get headaches occasionally, but they have been really bad lately.
Do you have your syllabus with you? May I see it?
But you must take the design and quality into consideration. You know we are superior to others in design and quality. We have various styles, which the other companies cannot catch up with.
Is there an office near me?
What a girly drink. I'll take a bag of the Blue Mountain and a decaf breva...
I'm impressed. Good for you!
That is to say, you like all genres except for horror movies.
Oh, the homework is to explain what economic law is both in broad sense and in narrow sense.
We should hang out some time.
Hi, I want to check out.
So, you mean people didn't enjoy religious freedom in England?
How are you, Kim? I haven ’ t seen you around for a few days.
Oh, flowers! What for, my dear?
It's fine with me.
Gentlemen should wear western-style suits in the interview, which will help you look handsome.
Do you sell washing machines?
Emm... yes. But I wasn't too impressed. I found her a little stuck up.
Oh, give me a break! That place is too lavish for us.
that sounds like a good idea. What are you going to do if you have any questions while you're studying?
Perfect. See you later.
Where? On the road?
Hi, Alan. I feel very nervous because I am going to have a job interview next Monday. Could you please give me some suggestions?
Sam, we are hard up for the everyday expenses. When can you find a job.
I think it would have been better if you had given us more of a chance to give our opinions.
Where's Lisa?
All right, see you tonight.
This machine is out of order.
Are you going to give me a ticket today, sir?
Great! Many thanks!
OK. Go ahead.
If it is not to your satisfaction, I ’ ll certainly bring you another. But I ’ m afraid you may have to wait for a few minutes.
No, never. I prefer to actually see and touch what I'm buying before I pay for it, especially for clothes and shoes.
Sorry, I'll try to speak louder.
Which kind of internet connection do you want to get?
Watch out, Patrick!
That's fine. Please send it to my room tomorrow morning.
Yes. Everything is ready.
Of course not! We have to sit at our assigned seats. I think our table is over there in the back.
No, I don't like museums. They're boring.
What if that happens to me? I hate to let food go to waste.
That ’ s more like it!
That ’ s James.
Yes. Today is Tuesday, so the boss went off to his MBA seminar class. He is out of the office every Tuesday and Thursday mornings, and he has classes all day Saturday and Sunday.
Oh. Of course I'm ready.
Oh, how I wish this all wasn't happening!
Good morning! What can I do for you?
Well you can ’ t just take the money. You have to ask the bank for money. And I ’ m the banker.
Oh, Jane. What on earth have you been? I've called you a thousand times.
Could you call Mr. Jacob for me, Sara? I need to go over some stuff with him.
Yikes! Temple City.
That ’ s okay. They describe everything on the ballot.
Good afternoon.Welcome to China.May I see your passport, customs and health declaration form?
my husband and I got married in a registry office with just two friends there as witnesses. But then we had three parties to celebrate.
Wait a minute! I don't like 7 fifteen, now that I think about it. Change it to 7 thirty.
That ’ s my little secret. Did you like the snacks that I prepared?
Take care, Peter. Don't run so fast.Are you tired?
Have you moved into your new house yet, Michael?
I will take the jasmine tea. Could you pack it with the wrapping paper and ribbon? It is a gift for my friend.
I used to work as a mechanic and I was responsible for the maintenance of all the company vehicles.
Please drop it at the front desk when you leave tie hotel.
Yes. If you don't mind sharing room with someone else, there's one available.
Can I have the roll of film developed here?
You say he was around average hight.
Well, the most important thing is that our company demand the quality be exactly the same as the sample which you'll take from the office on the third floor.
We can also look at your current credit status and adjust the interest accordingly.
Sure. May I take your measurements?
You wouldn't believe what happened to me today.
Harry Potter? Is that book funny?
No, I'm not. I am interested in some scarves.
Actually, I'd like a booth by the window if that's possible.
No, I didn ’ t hear about that.
No, not at all.Go ahead.
Let's go out for some exercise, shall we?
OK. I'll have a look at what I've got exactly in certificates and get back to you. Thanks for your help. Bye.
You look fresh recently.How do you make it?
Why do you want to leave your present job?
I've got 6 packets of cigarettes and 2 bottles of champagne. Besides, I have two cameras, one is for my own use, and the other is a gift.
Excuse me. I was wondering how to order office supplies.
Thanks for the offer, but I think I've got it. Hopefully, I won't get lost again on my way there!
The bigger they are, the harder they fall.
Thank you for coming, Miss Yang.
If you have any problem in your work, let me know.
Nice to meet you. And what do you do, Susan?
You were visiting Taiwan?
Did you take a photo with her?
Not untill the end of this year, you know, just before my wedding.
Excuse me, where am I on this map?
Thank you, Madam. Have a nice drive!
Neither do I. I don't like any kind of modern dances all.
No, thank you, I want to go out on the town. What other ideas do you have?
This book I'm reading about Yoga is really interesting.
It's easy, let me help you.
I'm studying medicine.
Why would I spy on you?
What happened to your car?
Thank you Dick. Today we are going to talk about the movie Lion King. Tell me Dave, what is your impression of this film?
No, it's just a couple of minutes.
I'm having a great time. I love it. I'm glad we came.
I am really tired of Terry.
You'll remember to do it, but you won't have time to do it.
Oh, what exactly is problem?
I'm now a secretary in my present work unit. My work is not interesting. I have to type, make copies, book tickets and so on. Everyday I follow the routine. Furthermore, I have studied English for four years at university, but I can ’ t use it there. They are the reasons I plan to change my job.
Well, to start with, Markweed Inc. has a reputation for being one of the best employers in the field.
Looks like it.You need to drink a lot of water and take a good rest.
Yes, here is your reservation. You have a standard room reserved for two nights. Is that right?
Fine! Well, I'll get right on it now!
Oh OK, where do I get off?
Any mp can present a law to parliament. The proposed law is debated and voted on. If it is accepted, it becomes law.
No problem at all. Welcome.
Mr. Brown, you certainly realize that the time of delivery is a matter of great importance to us. If we place our goods on the market at a time when all other importers have already sold their goods at profitable prices, we shall lose out.
We do have a storage space for your bags. There's a small charge, plus a deposit.
Ask John. He is sure to know about it.
Are you having problems with it?
No, I only know four great beauties of China.
Yes, Thursday would be fine. What time shall I come?
Does that help you faith?
I advise that step be taken in power supply first.
Oh my gosh, how exciting!
I'm sorry. When did this happen?
Good! Here, let me help you with your bag. Is it your first time to Seattle? I'd be happy to take you around this city and show you the sights tonight if you're up to it.
Basically, what I need from you now is your driver ’ s license or some ID that shows your residency status.
that ’ s true. Right. I ’ m going back to the meeting. It’s been going on for hours and there ’ s no indication that it ’ ll end soon.
Well, we ’ Ve already done our part.
Of course, ma'am.
Very good, we'll take them all.
Good afternoon. Mr. Tylor's office?
That makes sense. Probably less time to make dinner and the junk food is cheaper.
Excuse me, could you give me change for a dollar?
This visit is over for me. Here's your room key.
Yes, it is, but not as hot as in Beijing.
You will find a taxi stand the street corner.
Yes.it serves excellent Sichuan food. Spicy food may improve your appetite.
Any serial, sir?
Excuse me, can you help me? I would like to change rooms if possible, I couldn ’ t sleep at all last night, because the people in the room next to mine were making a lot of noise, also if at all possible, I ’ d like a room that doesn ’ t overlook the street, between the noisy neighbors and the highway outside, I didn ’ t sleep a wink.
When is it most convenient for me to visit you to talk about the position?
Good morning, Kate. Long time no see.
What would you like to have for dinner? Chicken or beef?
Does this hotel have a pool?
Considering that it's over ninety degrees outside, that would be weird.
( while shaking hands ) I am Zhang Wei, nice to meet you, sir.
Just myself. What is the rate?
Ron, have a seat and I'll get us something to drink.
I have studied English, tourist culture, guiding methods and techniques and so on.
What do you like about him?
Phew! ... Wait a minute, CRASH? ?!! Spyware? Trojans! What? where? when?!
That ’ s should be fun.
What did you order?
Let me wear you this diamond ring.
Hi, I am sorry to say that your experience doesn't fit the job at all.
Yes, I mean it.
Hi, I ’ m the superintendent of this building. What can I do for you?
Hey, look. My admirer has struck again.
The coupon can be used at least one year.
I think I am beginning to have an asthma attack.
Oh, Daddy, you should do more exercise. You are getting a little heavy.
come on, you sound like my Mom.Look at that, it's beautiful!
Oh, I would really appreciate that. By the way will I be going North or South?
I'm fine. I've been out of town. I just got back.
Yes, please. What's special today? Any special recommendations?
I ’ d like a standard room.
Hello. Could you give me some details about your Personal Pledge Loans, please?
Really? I don't believe I would met him, is he here now?
Sure. When do you want to take the plane?
I guess we'll see just around.
All right. I'll take the room.
Only black coffee.
What do you want to do in this company after five years?
Hello, I'm Lance.
Steven, have you got better now?
Kate, will you please make ten copies of this report?
I wrote out a check for $ 100 and it bounced.
Is there any way we could get a better warranty on this product?
I see. The fall in Beijing is really beautiful.
Not really. I thought it was disappointing.
Have you got a minute?
What kind of car do you have in mind?
The oval shape one?
I think that you have covered all the important points already.But if I have any questions later I will contact you.
Other than the marathon, what else is on the list?
Not really. It sometimes gets to 20 below.
And how about these little brown chips?
Miss, please give something to drink.
Yesterday I saw your company's advertisement. Your company is an important international company. Working for it, I believe it can improve my abilities.
I really appreciate your help.
Well done! Another question! When will you start work, if you are hired?
Sure, let's go.
Creativity, the ability to organize, the entrepreneur's spirit, comprehensive knowledge of human studies, ability of gathering information, expert competence of communication and deep professional skills.
I have a good solution... We need some new blood! We should get rid of this president and boat in some new leaders!
He'll never do well in mathematics.
Thank you. I hope to hear from you as soon as possible.
Oh. I'm sorry. I'll check the price for you. It is $ 199.
You come from Germany, don't you?
Let me check... what's your voucher number?
All right. I ’ ll do it for you by then. Anything else?
Oh, no. That's bad news.
Yes, I think you have the same model as I have. Does your fax machine print out immediately a transmission protocol?
Please turn right at the traffic lights.
Well, you've got to prepare a lot of food and enough sleeping bags then.
Thank you for saying so. I don ’ t know, probably because I like sharing my experience and knowledge with them. I think this kind of communication helps to improve our work efficiency and also helps to get along with colleagues.
Do many people like tennis?
How do you want your eggs?
Where do they come from?
No, I always back up my files.
Yes, I will. But can you tell me how to get to the consulting room?
When will you be leaving?
Great. Thanks a lot.
Really? That ’ s very good of you, Helen. But I must get a new suitcase, my old one needs repairing.
OK. I'll wait for you.
I graduated from Songhua University.
There are four people in my family.
when do the playoffs start?
Could you tell me what university you went to, Mr. Smith?
Just a few minutes. I need to make a list of the things that we need.
Listen, Karen, I need your help. I don't know anyone here yet.
Thank you for your directions. It's clear.
You will not mess up your job benefits by taking work. You can always come back and notify EDD that you are once again in need of assistance.
Well, I am afraid you have made a mistake. Would you check it again, please?
I see. Wait in the room, please.
Sure, I'll get it for you.Books or magazines?
That's weird.
It's a long story. In a word, I didn't do a good job of it. I messed up a business deal, a deal that would have made ten million dollars and I messed it up.
There's so much to do and so little time.
They fit me. Can you make it a little cheaper?
This is Mr Meng speaking, Michelle.
The price varies according to the seats. 300 for the front, 200 for the middle, and 50 for the back. Which kind would you like?
Yes. But I prefer a bit salty soup.
My name is B. How are you, Miss Kelly?
I don ’ t think I could afford that kind of car again. I think I ’ ll have to choose something that is not as hard to replace.
Can you pass me a menu please.
But I don ’ t envy those who are filthy with dough. That ’ s not the whole life.
There. It looks great, don ’ t you think? I ’ m going to get these jeans as well. I need a new pair. I need a new pair. I ‘ m also going to buy this scarf ready for winter.
No, I am the only child in my family.
Very Good. I will let him know as soon as he comes back. But, may I have your name, please?
You can't be serious.
Have you been using anything for it?
Yeah, good idea.We can put some lawn furniture outside next to the grill. I also set up the tent outside so we can hide from the sun if it gets too hot.
Is it okay to have a day off next week?
How long would you stay, sir?
Yes. Is there anything I can do for you?
You are a real fan of extreme sports.
Sure do! This one is a quarterly publication, but each issue has over 200 color pages of recipes and also many home decorating ideas!
Yes, it can be quite tough. Many people fail to pass the test at the first time.
Come on. Here is for enjoying and exciting.
What kind of jobs have you had?
OK. I need to think about that for a while.
Yeah. It's already December, you know.
Hi, Li Hong.This is Alice.
Not a good day. I hate to tell you that Mr. Thomas wants to see the prof It’s statement for new project tomorrow morning.
Oh. All right I'll read it soon.
Ok, I'll try that.
How far is it from here?
Would you like something to eat?
Are you driving a motorcycle or an automobile?
I think if I ’ m going to find a job, I ’ ll look over the job board.
I don't think we'll be able to pay the price. To have this business concluded, you need to lower your price at least by 3 %.
We only have spring rolls today for take-out.
What are you doing over the weekend?
Well, let ’ s go to the marathon tomorrow then! We can just stand by the side of the road.
Oh, really? Do you know which company they are from?
He's my brother.
Oh, how were you saved finally?
A minute, please. It's 6215 yuan all together, tax included.
That's perfect. Let me have her.
I got major FOMO from missing that the game.
Sure. Ah... That's the problem. Have you paid for it
Part of the motor is loose. I can put it back in place quite easily.
It’s hard to say. Language isn ’ t like other studies.
I will! I could use some good luck!
You already ate.
Mommy, dinner, please!
yes, but I don't really use it that often. Have you ever used it?
She was hit by a car. Luckily, she wasn't seriously hurt.
Yes. I have ACRE ( National Computer Rank Examination ) certificate, Rank II.
Our new production control program's going live on Monday. The old and the new programs will operate in tandem for four to six weeks. That should give us time to iron out any little problems.
Fantastic! how was that?
Sure. Wait a minute.
I won't, mum.
I'm sorry I scratched your car.
Welcome home, Peter!
A gang of bastards are wildly shooting on the next street. We must leave this place the soonest.
quite a few actually. By the way, after the play, there's always a big party for the cast and their friends. My friend has invited us. Do you want to go?
I would like high speed internet installed in my house.
Let me take a look. This is for a 486 computer with modem. Who ’ s it going to?
Yang Tang, just call me Fred! Everyone does.
Are you kidding? You got the leading role.
Sure, Sherry. Sorry to have kept you waiting. If you hadn ’ t told me, I probably would have just forgotten all about them.
This is Ryan you are speaking with. What can I do for you?
It is. Our customers really like it. Do you have any other questions about your new accounts?
Fine. Here is your room key, here is also a map of our hotel. The swimming pool, gym and sauna are all located on first floor.
I have absolutely no problem with that.
The stars look so much closer after it rains.
Yeah, let's do the math.
I know, but I ’ m really tired. My stomach feels funny.
We close at 10:00 every day. And we open at 9:00 in the morning.
Is there anything special you'd like?
so, are you enjoying the performance so far?
What's the occasion? You won the lottery?
When the weather gets really cold, it gets worse.
I know, It’s a big one.
I need to see if check number 212 has cleared yet.
Are you going to Helen ’ s birthday party on Friday evening?
I know. I can't help thinking about her. She's always on my mind.
You saw a ghost? When?
Great. Shall I meet you there around 7 forty-five tomorrow night?
Have you ever made any plan for your future?
Certainly! I suppose you dance often.
Give the mike to him.
Thanks for tucking me, Mom.
So what's Michael Milliken up to these days?
I get that, but let me just sleep for a little bit longer.
No, do you want to go and do something?
I ’ d like to open a current account.
What kind of jobs are becoming popular in your country?
You may collect unemployment if you are working fewer hours or got laid off.
That's very impressive. Which course did you like best?
Let me take a look at that. I can't stop the bleeding.We need to go to the hospital.
Just did my best.
Well, who is your favorite football player?
Anyway, how was your such, Catherine?
Not much. She is very tall and slim.
So you've seen other plays that he's directed?
I am new to this school and not familiar with this library. Can you help me?
Quite right. According to the usual practice in international trade, special risks are not covered unless the buyer asks for them.
Ok, now we are getting some where.Pants?
Really? That's great. You really did a good job. Anything else to tell me?
That's fine. Quickly please, we are so hungry.
No, it should only take you about 15 minutes by foot.
Oh, that's too bad. Where can you park around here?
I think a mountain village is splendid!
Yes, he was. I'm not imagining it.Finally, just when I got home, I turned around and looked at him.He was just standing there. He didn't smile. He just stood there. It was so obvious.What should I do? I'm so scared. Can I call the police?
Let's go get something to drink.
Yes, sure. What time will the wedding begin?
Full insurance, please.
Yes, much better. You can log in a website, browse through many items and categories comfortably at home, order the goods, pay by credit or debit card, and the goods will be delivered to your home.
Yes, that's right. Having an enjoyable time together is the goal.
We'd like quiet rooms thanks.
Hi, this is Maria. Is that Shirley?
Yes, I'd like to withdraw some money.
I don ’ t need to know anything else. Thank you.
All I'm trying to say is that life is... like... er... this painting.
Do you keep any pets, such as cats, dogs?
Be careful, Tom. Those are pretty heavy.
But it's true.
Ok. Would you like a drink too?
Your cooperation is very much appreciated.
Do you really need to?
thanks, I will. I'll see you tomorrow then!
I think that one fits you. Do you need insurance?
I'm highkey obsessed with this the meal.
I'll go back to the office and get it sorted and pop back later. Thanks, bye for now.
I didn't like her butting in where I didn't want her. She's a chatter box.
But I don ’ t like anyone who would drive me crazy by telling me what to do.
No problem. We can offer you a flat with two bedrooms and a living room.
Yes darling. You are quite right.
Yes, I would like to keep both classes.
DO you have any plan for your future?
Welcome to IBA Bank, how can we be of service?
Yes, I am checking out.
Good evening, sir.
When crossing the road you must always pay attention to what's around you.
oh, yeah. Probably. I don't really know how to use this phone yet.
I tried once, but they are quite difficult to eat with chopsticks.
How's your brother doing?
You ’ re breaking our contract.
So, how do I use it?
Yes, I would. ( After testing )
When does the next plane leave?
I think so, hopefully we ’ ll have a long and a happy life together.
I need 30 for my Christmas cards.
I need to return a book.
I'm afraid we cannot help you, sir, because that would be violating the regulations. I owe an apology for doing nothing about it.
I'm already dialing, sir.
Yes, it's true.
It's huge.
You need an appointment.
Which one of them is Marys brother?
Now I know why I split up with Mike. We found we were simply not good for each other.
That's not fair!
No wonder I haven ’ t seen you recently. Where did you spend your holidays?
do you want to try some of my yogurt. It's a favorite everyday dessert in Greece.
Why not? Let me recommend a website.
What has caused you to make such a decision? Didn ’ t you used to go with Helen?
Not bad. How about you? Haven't seen you for a long time.
Yes, I can. I have received some special training in computers. Besides I am good at operating common office machines, such as fax machines and duplicating machines.
All right. See you later.
That's simple. Just click the hyperlink, www.taobao.com or www. ebay.com, and you can see the specimen of the goods shown on the screen, and then you can place an order online with the sales company. And the goods will be delivered to your place.
Master card. Here you go.
No, I haven't, sir.
How far are you going?
I like pop music very much.
Sure. That would be great.
Okay, try this one. It's made of aluminum.
I like all kinds of stuff. I admit I love romance.
How in the world did you get a copy? I've put a hold on it at the public library for weeks and I'm still waiting my turn.
We ’ re having a lot of trouble with our printer. Could you come and take a look at it sometime this afternoon?
I'm going to paint the house today.
What's the criteria for staff to attend? Are we only including our management team in this affair? Or will we be extending invitations to lower level employees to attend?
So I can say now that you must have enjoyed the opera. Which scene is your favorite?
I'd like to make an appointment with manager Mr.Wu. Would 10:00 a. m. tomorrow be all right?
Thanks. I think you look nice today, too.
I'd prefer swordfish steak.
Excuse me. Do you know where I can find the nearest ICCC?
Yes, I went there five years ago. You were still a baby at that time.
Ah! You're bleeding all over! What happened?
that's perfect. I'll let him know tomorrow. Thanks!
And what does that entail?
To maintain a high standard of nursing, we should take experience and education into consideration while considering a nurse's level of expertise in caring for various patients.
And it's best to ask about the second interview if necessary.
How much is a regular haircut without shampoo?
She made another white crack about my clothes.
How did they hear? No one called.
Yes. Please come this way.
That ’ s terrible. But if they wouldn ’ t change them, I know what I would do.
Have you been able to sleep regular hours?
Oh, Jared! I can ’ t wait for our wedding! I hope you don ’ t mind, but I ’ Ve already chosen a date! Six months from now in the summer! Melissa saw you buying the ring last month so I ’ Ve had plenty of time to start planning!
Are you stupid? They are called UFOs, so not everybody can see them.
I think It’s because the manufactures are constantly bringing out new models. Because they know that we will buy the new models, the appliances don ’ t need to last more than five or ten year
Indeed, they are. Keeping staff happy is the only way to keep them with the company.
Well, I can only give him these for now, and after a couple of weeks I can administer the rest.
Since you have booked. Then let ’ s celebrate our wedding anniversary before hand.
If it breaks down, maybe you can find a repairman on the Internet.
No, I had it when I left school this afternoon.
Good idea! I think we could also have presentations by former students on how their experience here helped them in their lives.
Good night then!
Thank you, doctor. Bye.
Good. Do you speak English?
Good morning! I am Anna Lu. I've come for an interview which was arranged.
what kinds of decisions do you leave to other people?
It is. What can I do for you?
Hey John, nice skates. Are they new?
Do you think I can take a picture through this window?
Cool! Is that why we only work eight hours now?
You are coming?
The dishwasher broke down. I had the repair done and deducted the cost from the rent check.
What are you looking for now?
Yes. Cantonese food is lighter while Sichuan food is spicy and hot.
That will be a throw in for Brazil. Adriano has the ball and makes a long pass to Robin, and the ref has called him offside.
Here is the coffee, toast and bacon. Do you like fried eggs or poached ones?
It seems like a traffic accident.
Who taught you to put on make-up?
What are you major in?
Many are important — intelligence, diligence, information and planning. But the most important, I think, is achieving results.
Hello? Who is calling, please?
Indeed you know much about him.
Why don't you begin by telling me something about yourself?
What does travel light mean?
Well, it really depends. Because you are a tourist, it might be harder for you to get really good prices.
Um. It’s delicious.
Yes, me too. I think I ’ Ve lost some important clients recently because of this train!
I see. Could you make an exception and accept D / A or D / P?
I'm sorry, this is our rock bottom price.
Well, I want to surprise my brother showing up for his birthday.
Thank you. By the way, is there any preferential rate for the party?
Ok. Don't forget to bring your umbrella. The rain can start up again anytime.
Oh, I ’ m sorry to hear that. Hey, don ’ t worry about the dinner. We ’ ll do it some other time. But you take care of yourself.
Here you are, madam.All these are sixteens.
sure, let ’ s just be friends.
it seems you two are a good match. What qualities do you look for in a friend?
Sure, I have a part-time job as a bartender.
The current rate is 50 dollars per night.
oh. no as a matter of fact, i haven't danced for a long time.
I hope you will have second thoughts.
Ok, let ’ s start opening some presents!
Very well, Go ahead.
Hello, is Sue there?
My son came home from three years in the navy.
Yes. Can you tell me what the interest rate is now?
I'd better take a taxi.
I read in the newspapers that the passenger liners from Shanghai to Ningpo and Dalian have been out of business ; and the liners up and down the Yangtze River have been reduced by 70 %.
I've got a fever and a very sore throat.
How do you use an ATM card, Billy?
Alternatively, we do offer wireless in our lobby. You can bring your laptop down here.
Is the clock right?
We've missed you too. The office just isn't the same without you. How is your new job?
I'd strongly recommend that you wait for a while before going swimming.
Getting the goods ready, making out the documents and booking the shipping space - - all this takes time, you know. You cannot expect us to make delivery in less than a month.
Anything for you.
Would you please be quiet, Ladies and Gentlemen?
I'll do that, Mr.Zhang, See you tomorrow.
Oh, but I suppose he has lots of talents.
pardon me. Could you please pass me the tissue?
But, my overwork has not done yet. And it is driving me crazy.
Can you believe that he actually won?
Yes, certainly. How can I recognize him?
All right. If you insist. Next time it is on me, though.
Is this your brother-in-law?
what does that mean? there's nothing wrong with me.
People drive on the right in China.
I thought his race would have kept him from winning.
Here are our catalog and price list. The catalog lists all the commodities we export, and the price list gives indicative prices for all our export articles.
That's right. I had a phone call asking me to come back in, about rejecting them?
OK. And how long does it take to get a bachelor's degree?
Does it look too big?
Don't worry, do it step by step
of course. It's be against the law if we didn't.
No, all religions are essentially based on the same ideals, so no one is really better.
I'm not sure how to find my next class.
Are you aware that you ran through that stop sign?
All right. I accept this reduced offer at $ 98 per metric ton FOB stowed. The other terms and conditions shall remain the same as those in the previous agreement. Now will you draft the agreement or shall I?
Congratulations, I hope everything works out.
That's a good question. You know I love hip hop, so maybe we can play some Vanilla Ice songs.
So are mine. I think they left them cooking too long.
Mmmm... yes, many investors don't seem to be into stocks at the moment. Too risky! How about Open-Ended funds?
from next week on, we should be in less of a rush.
Would you have my baggage sent up, please?
Do you have any other particular conditions that you would like the company to take into consideration?
I think it is independent of IQ and plays a prominent role in deciding the way we live our lives.
Oh, wait a minute. What about a lid for the pan?
I hope you enjoyed your stay.
she is also very naughty. By the way, do you have a dog, Maria?
What's the rent for a year?
Organic? What ’ s organic? Do we need organic carrots...?
Maybe we could work out an overtime schedule. It’s definitely worth it to finish by the twentieth.
Do you mind if we talk about your schedule tomorrow?
Hello, madam. How do you like your staying here?
I thought you recognize she from there.
Don't forget to send.
So let's start by checking off what we've already done.
Welcome. What can I do for you this morning?
Of course not. You need a good rest.
OK! Let's go.
What were you thinking?
Do you know the name of the street?
Well, isn ’ t there anything you want?
It's not even noon yet.
How about 15 % the first six months and the second six months at 12 % with a guarantee of 3000 units?
Oh, I hardly ever exercise. I usually just watch TV in my free time. I guess I'm a real couch potato!
We are interested in your pure silk, but I'm wondering about the price. How much will you possibly offer us?
He is a nice guy and very considerate. I am impressed with how smart he is and he has a great sense of humor.
That's the warehouse where the large items of office equipment are stored.
Excellent! We have the finest cashmeres at affordable prices.How about we get you measured? Let ’ s start off by measuring the width of your shoulders. Now, let ’ s measure the length of your arms and this bit around your neck here.
It was so kind of you.
I ’ d rather you told her.
What kind of packing do you plan to use for this consignment of goods?
Oh great! Sounds like something I need to bring Kleenex to!
Well, the rate is two dollars for the first two kilometers and twenty cents for each additional two hundred meters.
Yes, it was wonderful but it's already been a year. How time flies!
Well, I'm afraid your father's not interested in modern films.
I like popular music best.
Yes, but we need some extra charge and some tip too.
I would like to place an order.
Out in the suburbs. It's a long trip to work every day.
So I heard.
The same is true for ' My Hero '. Winners of the contest used to star in the TV series ' The Frog Prince '.
Should we call the Olsen's and ask them if they want to join us?
Most normal little girls go wild over Barbie dolls.
How about this wallet? It's made of fine leather.
Sure, that would be a good place for them.
I did a B. A. in economics. Remember?
I think a bottle of champagne would be a good idea. It’s appetizing and tasty.
Well, I suppose we'll have to hire a cook then. So you won't be able to afford any clothes next year.
Let me show you.We have this rose color. We also have different shades of beige.
OK. 17 % the first six months, 14 % for the second.
It's a beautiful day! Let's play on those rides in the park.
About 12 hours.
This one looks pretty good, but I'd like to see more before I make up my mind. Do you have any other suggestions?
You just said 10 rounds.
Me too. How's the weather where you are?
That's great! I love to dance to fast music.
I feel the same way.
What a nice garden! Look at these tulips!
Sorry, I don't understand. What does that mean?
It says ' No smoking '.
I have cigarettes for my own use.
Who is your favorite author?
I wish it would stay this way for the weekend.
Not many but these ones. They are the Folk Antique Handicrafts and Collectibles Exhibition Halls!
I enjoyed talking to you too.
Cars might be convenient, but they're so bad for the environment.
I ’ m not too worried about it. I always seem to find something.
Thank you, I will be doing my best.
Yes.My face even ached in the icy wind.
It's an excellent hotel. A friend of mine had her wedding reception there and said it was perfect, though very expensive.
What do you think of the acting of the two main actors in the film?
Mumm. Those burgers smell great. It's perfect day for a barbecue.
Look out. Catch the ball. You should dunk besides the three-point line.
I see. Does that include fees for shore excursions?
All right. Is your companion leaving for Shanghai with you?
How is your house hunting going?
Here you are. Thank you.
Here you are. How much is the ticket?
I am not sure. What's the difference between them?
Can you direct me to the elevator?
Mom, what can I do for you today?
Purple. But today, I'm thinking of buying one in a bright colour.
I hope you enjoyed your stay, sir.
Yeah? That's what I was thinking too. Thanks.
"She's my little niece.It ' s her birthday.They ' re singing "" Happy Birthday ""."
Oh, Never mind, I finished my paper.So you can use it tonight.
Eight o'clock tonight, would you please set us in a private room?
Millions of amateur investors like you, have to rely on a dizzying array of financial newspapers, magazines and commentators to get investment information.
oh, the clothes here are so expensive! No wonder there are few people.
I see. The plants that fascinate me most are cacti. I find it amazing that they can survive in such dry desert conditions.
Yes. All the insurance will be linked with your work. We will issue an insurance policy.
Yes, I'm from Taiwan.
Have you seen the new girl in school?
Yes, our over-the-counter medicine is over there on that shelf.
Where are you from, Sam?
Well, since we are getting up so late, I decided to make a big breakfast!
The negotiating bank has just been in touch...
Am I back in your good books?
Let me check. Oh, oh! It’s at 3:25.
For how many guests, please?
Oh, it costs too much. It's more expensive than the public school.
Julia, burglaries in our town have been on the wing.
Unfortunately, yes. You see, this is a three-year note ; it was issued over a year ago, but not over two years. So, you will have to pay. I'm sorry about that.
We may deduct the commission from the invoice value directly or remit it to you after payment.
All right, it's done. Please follow me to the drying section.
How much is the desk?
Do you have any friend you would call really close ones?
You mean used cars?
It surely is.
Did he say why?
Try this on please.
Well, the teddy bear is for me!
The franchised store is on the second floor.
What sort of shift-system do you operate?
Hey man! How ’ s it hanging?
Shall I gift-wrap them for you, sir?
Can you change American dollars into French francs.
not really. I thought I'd just have a look today.
Around 8: 30 p. m.
We have different tastes. I like girls with short hair. I like tall girls - probably because I ’ m so tall myself.
I don't know exactly. It's a tradition. Maybe it's for sanitary reasons.
yeah, me, too. It's about time I made a move.
I would like to watch the Oscars on tv tonight. How about you?
I'll try that. Do you have facial cream to go with that?
You did, but I can ’ t help it.
What are your rates?
Let's do something outdoors today.
Yes. I'm a transit passenger for this flight. Can you tell me where to go?
Give me a call tomorrow.
It's a good thing. OK, let's go skiing.
No. He retired from that. He is a senator now.
I got robbed.
Song, I hate to say goodbye, but I have to.
I'm highkey obsessed with this the game.
Anything more, sir?
I'm from Canada.
Please fill out this registration card. Here is your key. You can park your car in front of our room.Check - out time is noon.
Oh, the clothes here are so expensive! No wonder there are few people.
Hello, is this People's Theater?
Yes, I'd like to have this parcel delivered to Shanghai.
It tastes really great. Did you cook it?
We met them in Bermuda last May.
Good afternoon. How can I help you?
I will be glad to do the same for you when you're sick.
Uncle, have a heart, please lend your new car to me. Only once.
Yes. First, you need to turn around. Do you remember passing some traffic lights further up this road?
Do you know which direction it should be heading?
Oh, is it?
Really, that's good.
Everything is great, Tad. How are you?
Something hot and spicy. They look very inviting on the menu. You are going to love them.
I have a lot of luggage. Will those fit in the taxi?
Sure, anything else?
Not that I can think of. Wait a second, we ’ re out of breakfast cereal. I think corn flakes are on sale. Get those.
By airmail or seamail?
I am self-indulgent sometimes.
Er, is it cabbage?
888 Yuan per night. With breakfast. “ Northern Star ” buffet! What's there arriving time?
Yes and I broke my phone too so I couldn ’ t call you.
just give me the dates and I'll make sure I'm free. You know after all these chatting online, it will be great to meet you in real life. I look forward to seeing you soon!
Fine, I will pencil that in right now. We will see you then.
I just won the lottery.
I ’ m having a problem.
John Taylor, 32, May 23, 1970.
OK, how about 12:30 PM?
That will be fine. When can I see him?
Pick the one that you always sing in the shower.
I've got a dozen things to do and they all have to be done immediately.
Very well, thank you. I'm meeting my wife and daughter for lunch at twelve.Would you care to join us?
It was purchased on the 12th of November at 3
What about the divided skirt?
I'm sorry, sir, but it isn't. Your MasterCard or VISA will take care of things nicely.
Uh, I'd like to, but I have to work late.
That's no problem. Which currency would you like to buy?
Julie, is that you?
You just have to build up a tolerance. I used to be like that. But your body gets used to it.
Yeah. I just got here a couple of days ago. How about you?
OK. I'll take it. Thank you.
I wish I could stay there, but unfortunately it will have to be a round trip ticket.
One isn ’ t necessarily better than the other. It depends a lot on the school administration and the teachers.
Did you find something you like?
Yes, I liked it, too. It was exciting, but not over the top. Do you know what I mean?
Hi, I ’ d like a single room.
Yes. You always have a good nose for wines.
Do you know anything about health food?
No. The only thing I've ever done behind your back is zipping you up.
Yeah, that was close.
I think so too.Let ' s go!
Yes, it's my favorite.
Our room number is 117 and my name is Terry Chen.
We are approaching the top of the mountain.
That ’ d be great, but could I have a cup of tea first?
I have learned many courses, such as Civil Law, Economic Law, Commercial Law and Administration Law.
I think it's too slow makes me sleepy. In fact, it's the worst in this week ’ s top ten, if you ask me.
You have a lot of plants.
We are at 2368 King Street East.
I'll show you how. The bar tenders know whose turn it is. And also, I can snap my fingers to catch his attention.
Cygnet. OK, I've got that.
Additionally, don't show any impatience to a repeated topic.
Have you a full-day trip?
Why don't you like horror? They're entertaining.
It's actually a lot cheaper for me to wash my clothes here.
Can I see him please, Mrs Williams?
Yeah, you can count on it.
Yes. If a tornado has been spotted, they announce a tornado warning.So if there's a tornado warning on, it means a tornado is out there somewhere.
Passengers holding first class tickets may carry 2 pieces within the total weight of 5 kg onto the plane.
Good! How much does the sea view stateroom cost for per person?
Of course not. For me, mountaineering is both relaxation and a hobby.
I love sashimi. Did mom bring any soy sauce for that?
What do you think of smoking?
How about going hunting with me?
Do you have a ride home?
Really? Well, anyway, they pointed their guns at him and said, you know, keep calm and drive out.... we don't want to hurt you... we just want your car.
I need to get a flight to Chicago on the 7th in the morning. Can you give me a hand?
That ’ s a job that pays well. If you ’ re lucky, you might have opportunities to travel as well. Have you applied to any banks yet? Our course will end soon.
Full coverage, please.
I'm searching for an old music box.
I went shopping.
First, you need to have the list of books for your class. Do you have that?
I haven't finished it. It is very difficult.
And I must thank you again for your generous help.
Tell me what else happened.
I guess we can eat there then.
I guess it Is Mrs Hill. She sued for divorce on the grounds of her husband's misconduct with his secretary.
Easter's a good day for reunions. The family goes to church together.
Could I have a fresh towel?
I had mine when I was 24. That's a little young. I'd suggest you wait until you are in your late twenties, or even in your early thirties if you have a good career.
I agree. I'm not good at it, either. Can you swim? How about going for a swim this Saturday?
Yes. I needed a large one. Before, I had a separate refrigerator and freezer, but this has both combined into one.
My children would like that ; they like dancing very much.
They're a little bit too long, so I'd like about half an inch taken off them.
I told you so. I kept having problems with it yesterday. I don't know what's wrong.
My sister and I usually go to the laundromat down the street. Why don't you go there?
John! Wait a second! I was just heading downstairs for a cup of coffee. You want to come? I ’ Ve got some good news!
Can you assure the quality of this air conditioner?
When you woke up, the water was coming out the tub?
What? Are you serious? Oh, my gosh! There will be guys everywhere.
The guy always hands the girls in a line. When did he propose?
Excuse me. Do you know how to get to the mall?
It was quite good. But. I missed the beginning of it because I had to eat first.
That's where it'll be.
Some of my grappa will cure your shyness.
Why? They have everything here.
She was the head janitor at St. Mary's Hospital for thirty years, after all.
What do you know about our major products and our share of the market?
What's your relationship with the victim?
Sorry, he's out.
Right. Ok, the fare is $ 700.
Of course. But I'm afraid I'm not much of a dancer...
Do you have s second?
I'm sure you don't write enough.Look at this. Here you wrote, Russian Revolution. 1917. Bolsheviks. Real revolution, or coup? And that's all? I remember he lectured for a half hour about that question.And you didn't write any of it!
Where are the workers from? From the villages nearby?
Of course not, go ahead.
Sure, here is my driver's license.
Oh, yes, I'd very much like to go.
Ok. I'll keep my promise.
He's not in, I'm afraid.
Oh, Susie. Didn ’ t I tell you over and over again that you wouldn ’ t be able to climb the mountain unless you got enough sleep?
I also have a suit to be dry-cleaned. Can I fetch it the day after tomorrow? It's urgent.
Yes, I'd like that, then.
Don't I know you?
Why are you laughing?
hi, Bob, I am so glad that you came.
Thanks for your help, Ralph!
It's about 300 yuan.
All my relatives are getting together at my house.
That's my job! Is there anything else I can assist you with?
Isn ’ t it really cold there?
Very funny. What's wrong with you today? You are my secretary and you are not supposed to talk to me in that tone of voice. Do you know that?
And the bubble wrap?
A little of both. We'll have a few daylong sessions for things like business writing skills and software training. Those are available to everyone. We also have a variety of other programs
Yes. With the 60 - second digital memory, I can record my voice and send it using voice message mode.
I'm Robert, at your service.
That's a good idea. I almost forget it.What else?
Of course. It's urgent. I think the partie nt is suffering from acute appendicitis. He may die if not treated in time.
I ’ ll have to get a couple in different colors.
Something attractive and dressy. Maybe a little sexy too. New Year's Eve is a special occasion and it only happens once a year, right?
Today is Friday. Are you new in Beijing?
It's no problem. I have time today, and I think it's important that you find a good place.
I don't think he'll like it. He prefers simple styles.
I'm so happy you remember, please come in and enjoy the party. Everyone's here, I'm sure you have a good time.
I think I'll go for the smallest, as it's just for documents. Will I be the only key holder? I'd perhaps feel a little nervous if I knew someone else could have access to it at any time.
Morning, Michael. I ’ Ve been very busy lately. One of our other vendors is going out of business and I ’ Ve been searching for a suitable replacement.
Sorry. I didn't know.
So, where are you going to spend your winter vacation?
Attaboy, that's just what I am thinking.
There is a service commission that you must pay. It's 1 % of the funds to be remitted, so you should pay an extra 6 RIB.
I think that unfortunately It’s more important than a person ’ s character. Advertising and stuff tells us that we have to be attractive. I think It’s wrong, but that ’ s the way the world is now.
How lovely! How much is she?
How about the Holiday Inn?
No, I'll send a larger vehicle to pick you up.
Oh, my Adult College Entrance Exam is also around then. I don't know if I can pass it.
Yes, that ’ s all right. Thank you very much.
No, madam.May I help you?
I'll buy a set. But you have to teach me.
Well, things are all right.
No, Jess, chill out!
So it's not as convenient for left-handed people?
That's the last time I get on a bus with you.
If you don't mind, I would appreciate it if you would pick up my prescription.
what kind of computer do you have, a Mac or a PC?
But where have you been, Alice? You're over an hour late.
More or less. I go to three different buildings, and always get there late. I feel so hopeless. I don ’ t know why I am late all the time. No one else seems to be.
I'm not going to tell her. She will find out and understand when she grows older.
It’s a beautiful city, but I think It’s become too touristy. How about going to a cosmopolitan city like Shanghai or Hong Kong?
My baggage is missing!
I see. Thank you very much for your advice. Bye.
Honey, what's wrong with you?
Sounds good. See you there.
Thanks, honey, that was a great meal. I ’ m stuffed. Do we have any chips left?
I wish I could be one of those people, but my budget simply doesn ’ t stretch that far. I have to limit the amount of money I spend on clothes otherwise I would go on a shopping frenzy.
Barely. Will you be checking any luggage today?
Same here.Have you seen any new films recently?
Absolutely we need a house here. But what makes me upset is the prices in this city.
How did you enjoy your family party at “ ginger ’ s ”? I hear that they have a lovely menu and buffet.
That's great. Thank you very much.
When do they arrive in Beijing?
Excuse me. My bag was stolen, will you help me?
Hello, do you have any vacancies?
The mirror is behind you, sir.
What time, sir?
I really hope it doesn't get cold.
We'd like to have break fast in our room tomorrow ; Would you please arrange it for us?
OK. You may wrap it now. Please fill in this form and label it. ( after a moment ) Would you like it registered?
That ’ s very specialized. So, the insects and the flowers rely on each other. If one became extinct, the other would too.
I'd like to try something typically Chinese.
Then it is June 20 the day after tomorrow.
Now, don ’ t go losing your temper. If you tolerated all you can, just kick him out... but do it with gloves. I know! Tell him a white lie like you ’ re getting the house fumigated!
Hey, son, are you insured?
Am I ready for what?
We were planning on walking both ways since the weather is still nice.
Walk ahead a little further. There are plenty of them.
And she was in a movie once again, right?
Sue, this is Tom Lin from Allied Trust and I'm calling to offer you a position with our firm.
We could have another on the successes of graduates from here.
You look so busy.
I really hope to reach an agreement with you today that is suitable and beneficial for us both. I've thought through a lot of these details, and I hope we can have a chance to discuss them and resolve any differences this afternoon.
Good morning. Venus Real Estate Agency.
I'd rather get one with separated speakers. They give a clear sound.
Actually, we are doing a project in school that involves landing a ship and staying on Mars for an extended period of time. Does NASA have any type of portable habitats that could be used to stay on the planet?
The apple crisp sounds great.
That's for sure. You're new, too, huh?
But what if he knows my name, where I live...
We have to wait six more minutes!
OK, let's meet at the movie theater entrance tonight. Don ’ t be late.
It's simpler and cheaper to arrange multi-model combined transportation.
I know that. I met her last week, and she looked as pale as death.
no problem. I'm really looking forward to the coming week.
Oh, yeah, the brand name.
Well, I also hope our cooperation will be never-ending. Thank you again.
Dad really knew what he was doing when he chose you to take over for him when he was gone!
No, sir. The gym is absolutely free. However, be sure to take your room key with you.
First of all, you must be punctual. You should be there before 6 p. m. so that you will have half an hour for preparation changing clothes and things like that. Then, remember you should smile. Smile to your customers all the time. Never pull a long face even If you feel awful that day. Anything else? Oh, yes. Never argue with your boss. Learn to say ' Yes, sir. '
Absolutely. Mm, this is really good.
Turn right at the third intersection, you'll see the street and then walk along the street to the south.
not really. Do you like biographical / drama films?
Yes, Mr. Hammer.
I need to get to PCC, but I don't know which bus to catch.
Yes, and I always feel much better when I am friendly.
One of my students told me she was very depressed today.
I'm in 507, and I have a big problem.
Here's 20 yuan, keep the change.
I hate this kind of weather!
Okay. Our rental agent will be with you in a moment.
Would you like to pay for any extra permits for another vehicle?
I'll be please to if I can. What can I do for you?
I'm sorry to hear that. How are you feeling now?
if he didn't have any drug problems, he would have won.
Yes, Miss. Is that all right?
We open at eight-thirty in the morning and close at five-thirty in the afternoon.
It's just a formality, but for hire purchase we usually require references.
Good. I was thinking that I ’ d like to invite you to watch a movie. I can meet you at the cinema gate.
Of course. Here you are. Please read the agreement and sign it.
Hi, this is Monica. I was wondering when we can work on this financial report.
Yes, I think so.
Please fill out this form, sir.
Yes, I have been always learning the Economics on my own. My dream is to get a master's degree in Economics.
I like to stay here.
Driver, can you please speed up? I m afraid I might miss the flight.
Fine. Thank you very much.
I do not care the brand as long as it works well.
of course, that's something really irritating. And the only way to avoid being trapped is to know in advance about the real worth of the stuff. I recommend you to consult the price tags in the supermarket first. And then you may negotiate for a fair deal.
ORG! It must be so late where you are. What time is it?
I had one, but I didn't like the job very much. I wanted to attend graduate school, but I was afraid it would be too tough.
I heard they used ultraviolet lamp to kill pests.
Under the circumstances, I think I'm just going to let you go with a warning.
oh, I like it. It's such a beautiful dance, but I can't do it well. What about you?
How will you spend this lovely weekend?
I suppose there's nothing cheaper, is there?
Do you have the sensation of ants crawling over the painful part?
How did you first meet Jack each other?
You are not being a good sport about this.
OK. ( A few minutes later ) Sorry to keep you waiting. Here is your change.
Yes, I had a teacher like that before.
What prompted you to apply to this company?
Good evening, ma'am. May I help you?
We're planning on going skiing in Switzerland. Do you ski?
Yes.Bring me a bath towel as well.
I'm trying to find a job in sound engineering.
Yes. But not too much. It is considered as the head of five sacred mountains in China.
Why not. If I were you, I certainly would.
Cycling during weekends? Do you me riding on the mountainous countryside just the neighboring towns?
I had it when I left the house. I had it when we start to get the hotdog.
What kind of anti-virus software do you use?
How far is it?
Not really. I like going to an art exhibition once or twice a year. I hardly know anything about art or sculpture. You are a true art lover, aren ’ t you?
I'm glad you feel that way.We ' ll leave in about ten minutes, alright?
This bookcase isn ’ t for me. It’s for my daughter, Susan. Pink ’ s her favorite colour.
Oh, I see it. Thanks for your help.
Julia, I apologize to you for what I have done. Please forgive me.
Excuse me, I'm a little lost. Which bus do I take to get to Shi Da?
Oh, dear, well, it looks like we have a few rooms available, can I put you into a room on the 17th floor? It has a balcony and it doesn ’ t face the highway.
do you know what kind of scent she usually wears?
That ’ s because in the 16th and 17th century, there was a series of religious reforms in England. Many religious separatists were persecuted and fled to other countries.
I visited the famous variety show host, Dennis.
It’s ok, good night.
Not much. My girlfriend just dumped me.
Oh, Jack! That's wonderful!
I'm glad.
Its durability will be a big surprise to you.
Yes, thank you.
That ’ s right. Just call me if you need anything.
Thanks for letting me know. I feel relieved now.
What are you doing there on the computer?
Just calm down. I'm sure you'll do well.
That's a good idea. Can you help me to get some?
I am all ears.
I graduated and I'am working towards my next degree.
I'm terribly sorry I'm late. I just couldn't help it.
Yes. Also, I'm not so sure about the color.
What do you want to eat today?
Is the restaurant on the right or on the left hand side of the road?
Oh, I am sorry, I thought you were not.
After you have your great idea, then you can set up shop by registering a domain name, creating a website, an email address, and a hosting service. If you want to go all out on your website, you can put together shopping cart technology, but that can be pricey to start out with.
Yes, our prices are negotiable, but our quality is not.
I actually found it in the ads, and It’s not too expensive either.
OK, I will.
I don ’ t like a lot of clutter, so I wouldn ’ t have lots of things out. I would have a few vases on the mantel piece and some pictures of my family on the walls, but other than that, most things would b
I either want a Snickers or a Kit Kat.
Good afternoon. I have a reservation under the name of Hilton.
I want to know about overdraft fees.
Since leaving school, I have attended typewriting and shorthand classes, and have now attained a speed of fifty and ninety works respectively.
Good evening, I have a reservation under the name of Tomlinson.
it is good news, but it looked like you were almost finished. We might as well just sign off.
Yes, he is. He ’ s very hardworking when he ’ s at school. Then he comes home from school and does homework before dinner. After dinner, he goes out with his friends.
You won't be able to tell the difference with a magnifying glass.
But I lost the chance.
I'd like to, but I'm afraid I can't.
You could get the rakes and some shovels together and I'll put them in the car.
Very interesting. So it seems you had quite an adventurous childhood.
I think that I have.
You have so many antiques and Chinese paintings here. May I have a look first?
Because the hottest season is summer in a year.
Pot? Isn't that marijuana?
I was robbed this morning.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to tonight's fashion show.
So they have started the year end sale earlier this year.
Well, this is just between ourselves, of course, but he was her lover and he wanted to leave her, so she got revenge. I heard him say she was a dangerous woman.
Excuse me, can I use your computer to type my paper?
What should we do, now with Jack out of the game?
Cheers! Let ’ s tie one on.
Ok, you are really all eyes when it comes to talking about food, aren't you?
He ’ s hanging from the string. He ’ s holding onto the string with his fingers and shouting to Mrs. King.
About fifteen minutes. It's not far. Are you a stranger in New York?
Like renewing my passport, going to the travel agency to buy my plane ticket and figuring out what to do with my apartment while I ’ m gone.
How soon before this goes through?
What is the whether like in Washington at this time of this year?
Yes! Isn't that exciting?
How things have changed now!
Thanks a lot. I hope to see you again.
OK. Let me see.
Will you please put all your luggage on the scale?
No, not at all. Very straight. Her hair comes down like this... just over the ears.
Hello! So, you're back. Do you have everything with you?
I'm not really sure if it does or not.
Your tickets are valid for one year.If you want to change flight, you just go to the airline's ticketing office and have it reconfirmed. But you have to fly the same airlines.
I ’ m looking forward to reading that. We could have book signings by famous professors an alumni.
that's very nice of you to say so. I'll try my best. When will you start at the new position?
I've never met Darren.But you're right. That would probably be uncomfortable.
According to your schedule, you will visit the Times Company, including its office building, workshops and stores, in the morning from 8: 30 to 11
But if you were me?
In particular, I'm interested in marketing in the domestic field.
No, I haven't had the pleasure.
Having a dog would probably be too much work for me, then.
Well, sir. If you want to check out now, we will charge you $ 200 as well.
What are you grinning about?
Who's it for?
This feels great. I'm all reed up. I can keep going all night.
And do you know where the national bank is?
That sounds attractive, all right, how about that we sign a one year contract?
We can certainly give you faster turn around, but it will cost you extra.
Calm down, Sir. Is that an IBA Debit or Credit Card?
You said it. Ok, let's go in, Sandy.
Let me see your student ID.
Oh, I see.Then can I buy slides and picture postcards somewhere?
No, not really... I ’ m completely at a loss.
he was arrested by the police for drinking and driving.
Good morning! I'm Steven Smith. I want to open an account here.
I am consistently impressed by vegetarians.
So if I can help you as a consultant, what is in for me?
Well, you never know. I'm ready for a commitment and want to settle down, but she says she wants to pursue her career while she's still young.
I went a global warming rally in London. It was fantastic to be around so many people who care about the environment.
There ’ s a typhoon coming.
I think I will start off in Paris. Then I ’ m going to take the train to Nice and then go on to Milan.
What made you think that?
Then what shall we do?
Good for you! It sounds like you've done a lot of planning in a very short time.
we landed in Southampton and waited an hour for the storms to pass and then took off again.
I wouldn't like to hold a specific title. I just want to enjoy what I am doing.
You ought to point out how valuable you are, and tell her those people who have the same situation also get the salary raise.
Oh? What's wrong with his girlfriend?
Ok, I ’ ll take a return ticket on the soft sleeper please.
I've been searching for a while now to find a company that had a business model and corporate philosophy like yours. I am interested in working for a company that provides products and services to the K - 12 education market. My background is in this field, and my strength is in building relationships and solving problems. I am excited and interested in the idea of developing business relationships through e-commerce.
I'm not really accustomed to the style of the new boss.
I would rather do the dishes than cook.
We did the best that we could to give you a low price. Did you get our recent estimate?
He just has his secretary do his homework for him.
No, thanks. How much should I pay?
My family and I are going to dinner.
That's a hard time.The air is cold and damp, and the road is often icy.
You're right. I should talk to him. Sometimes, it's not easy being a parent. Thanks. It helps to get it off my chest. You're always so easy to talk to.
Really? Why is that?
Then could the soil on Mars somehow be fertile enough to Groh simple plants?
There's a major problem with room 507.
I have it on DVD at my house if you want to come over and watch it.
I was wondering if you wanted to go for a walk with us.
Are you interested in making this investment?
Oh?! Did you talk with her about it?
But it is very difficult to gather a team of players together.
I'm glad to see you!
I just saw a red van pulling into the driveway. Is that her?
Why is little Billy crying?
When are you getting married?
Fine. I'll be ready in a minute.
It’s going to a volleyball match between the economic department and foreign language department this afternoon. Are any of you keen on volleyball?
That's 680 Yuan.
She is tall?
What will the weather be like tomorrow?
I think that April would work. Spring is a lovely time to be in the mountains.
I can show you where they are.
Well, I visited their website and read up on what they do. They ’ re an IT service company that offers comprehensive business solutions for large corporations. They provide services such as ARM development, and they also offer customdesigned applications.
I love winter, I love snow.
Well, fish it will be then.
It starts at 8
I'd like to have an ice cream
This is wonderful. Thank you for doing all this for me, Miss Lee.
Yes. I ’ m trying to find a pair of earrings to match my necklace. Can you recommend some to me?
Irrevocable letter of credit, of course. It's the normal terms of payment in international business.
Okay. Check you later.
Yes. We have a reservation.
No, thank you. I'm on a diet.
I will if you tell me how you're so sure that we're going to come out on top.
James is going to be packed off there.
Can you speak a little louder? You sound very indistinct with the hissing noise.
Great. I can ring you up over here. It comes to $ 87.04.
How do they train the dogs? Well, I mean, it's a long process, right... we get them when they're puppies... and so we train them basic... you know, sit, come... really basic things... then, after they're about two year old, they go a different training school.
OK, good-bye.
Really? I'm not much of an outdoor person. What do you like about it?
It's true that we should do something about unemployment, but what about inflation? If unemployment falls, there's pressure to increase pay. That would result in inflation, which would result in a much less dynamic economy.
Can I help you, Ma'am?
Sure, here it is...
What does your car look like?
Don't worry about it. I've got another one I can use.
Yes. I got very excited.
I think it's a good way to develop our language ability.
Darling, I am back. What are you doing?
Excuse me, Sir, you are not supposed to smoke here.
What time would you like?
I am not cheating. When you pass go, you collect $ 200, Everyone knows that!
Great! Is your, too?
Do you have many different suppliers?
Well, here you are.
Right. Excuse me. Mrs. Jones?
I will, do you want me to bring anything?
Oh! I see. I'll have the paperback, please.
Yeah, I agree with you. But you know, it's just one of those things.
Thank you for all your patience.
You are quite busy every day.
I've tried before. Everything I've tried doesn't work.
Well, the state will benefit a lot, I suppose.
that looks lovely. Just one more thing---you need a pair of earrings.
Sometimes if you don't think about it, that sick feeling will go away on its own.
Tomorrow's Carl's birthday?
Pretty good. Listen... have you heard about the new Thai restaurant over on University Avenue?
I'm really mad at Bob.
That's cool. Hey, so have you decided on your major yet?
Hello. City News. Can I help you?
My name is James Owen. I ’ m Manager of Sales. How do you do?
Yeah. I guess it does. Sorry again for bothering you.
Why are you considering trying for it?
How long is the duration of patent right for an invention according to your Patent Law?
Yes. If you have any question, just ask. By the way, do you know your rights and obligations in this agreement?
I think TV is a great waste of time, so I would only have one small TV in the kitchen to watch the news in the morning.
Thank you. That way, PLS.
The deposit is $ 500.
Right. You know where that is?
Oh, it's a pity.
That ’ s right. We ’ ll finish them just in time. The Macy project can wait for the time being. We need to spend several days on that project, but it isn ’ t due to be finished until the end of the month, so we have plenty of time to get it done.
How about I tire myself out, and then fall asleep when I'm tired?
It depends on how much you earned. When you file, they will determine the amount.
I know. But there's no point in making her feel worse, isn't there?
There's no need to apologize.
I would like to pay by check.
I need the number for John Reese ’ s office.
That would be twenty yuan, sir. We charge only by the number of hours, no split of each hour.
Well, I had a blood test last week. The doctor said that I have high blood pressure and my blood is thick and sticky. I'm very worried.
Yes. He was taken to the hospital in an ambulance.
Good for you, keep it up.
Ok. Anything else?
Could I interest you in anything else?
No, he just landed the plane and walked to a restaurant.
Yes, in most circumstances.Are you available for business travel?
Okay. I ’ ll take it. Thank you very much for your help.
Yes. I'll have the shrimp cocktail to start.
I am so happy that he is our new President!
Yeah. That's the one.
I see. Let me have a look. It seems that your toilet is clogged, and that ’ s why it won ’ t flush. Let me just get my plunger. No, that ’ s not working either. I suspect that there ’ s some sort of foreign object in the pipes that ‘ s causing a blockage. That ’ s what ’ s making your toilet overflow.
What's the matter, John? you seemed to be restless today.
I think I'll take fried fish, because fish is one of my favorites.
That's a good idea. Can you set the oven to 200 degrees Celsius?
( Read the agreement. ) There's a three-month period of probation for new recruits.
But you haven't practised all that much.
wow, that must have really been scary.
I am a grown-up, and I can stand on my own two feet.
I've wanted to be involved in engineering ever since I was little. And my study has equipped me with a career as a mechanical engineer.
Yes, souvenirs that I can take home and add to my collection.
Thank you. That's a good idea.she likes exciting books. Can you suggest another one?
I backed into it while I was trying to get into the parking lot.
Yes, I banged it against to cooker yesterday. It really hurt, but It’s OK now. the bruise will disappear soon.
He ’ ll finish writing in a minute.
Do you have magazines now?
I want to send it by express mail. The faster, the better.
This'd better be good. I'm about to fire you all and find another company.
Yes, I would.
You should particularly state your strong points which are closely related to the position you are applying for.
in the long run, I think breaking up with him would make me much happier, but I know that I'll be depressed about it for a few weeks first.
But you have already worked there for five years.
Mr.Smith is sending his apologies and has asked me to find out if the day after tomorrow would be all right with you.
Would you like to have a look? Is it to your satisfaction?
Oh? I heard she dumped you. Anyway, she's right over there. Oh, Sheryl!
I'm sorry, hold on a moment. I'll check it out. But we have already shipped it to you last month. Would you like us to contact the express company to know what's going on?
What a pity! I should have come earlier.
Oh, really? That sounds interesting, what kinds of book do you publish?
I have something else to remind you of. Don't be late, if you are late, you will be fined 20 Yuan per minute.
What does my white blood cell count tell him?
Where are you?
You are right, Mary's father is responsible for the entire wedding-arrangement, costs, etc. I think he must spend much money.
Let me know if that doesn't work.
I wish I could, but It’s already late.
Yep. There's still so much to do!
Oh, really. I thought he lived with his wife.
Not quite. You have to maintain a minimum balance of twenty dollars. And sometimes the bank has service charges. But you don ’ t have to worry about that yet. Let ’ s go make your first depot
Yes, the scenery there is breathtaking. I have some pictures at home. You can come over and take a look if you like
I need at least 75,000 per year.
Everything I got from IKEA cost me a couple thousand.
Not really, Betty. What do you need?
I am exhausted. I need some sleep.
How come you don ’ t have all of his films on DVD?
Then he is really lucky.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Hi, I'm out of here. Here's my key.
How long do you want to sign a contract for?
I'm left-handed. You bought that watch so that I won't borrow it...
Oh, yes. I think I'll look at those over there before I decide.
This seems a pretty nice room, I should say.
Well, anyway, I made a beeline over to their office, had an interview with the manager, and was told to start work the next day.
I want to work part-time.
Only about two hours, for a couple of days a month. Why don't you give it a try?
Sure. You look like you're all black and blue.
Absolutely. Here it is.
Are you doing anything this weekend?
But he always wimps out of difficulty.
Hey, Michael. Remember me? I'm Becky. We used to work at Lemans together.
good morning, doctor. I feel terrible. I ’ Ve got a cold and I have a rash here on my neck. I ’ m not sleeping well either. What do you think the problem could be?
I believe that you called me?
25.00 dollars a week, but you can't have visitors.
Should we just meet here?
What if the results from the two inspections do not coincide with each other?
I'm positive.
It seems that they really enjoy to go faster, higher and further.
Okay, let's sit over there.
You ’ re not sure? You were going at 90 miles per hour! That ’ s 25 mph over the legal speed limit! Have you been drinking?
What about the loan repayment?
Did you hear about the robbery?
Yes, the weather is wonderful, the game is wonderful and the players are wonderful.
It should apply to all communications, not only in this office between employees, but also any outside communications.
Well. I am afraid you have made a mistake. It's not the dish I ordered.
We can only go fast on the motor ways if there isn ’ t much traffic. I think we should allow ourselves plenty of time to get there. Being early is much better than being late.
It's really frustrating, isn't it? I have the same problem. I would feel a lot better if the currency was a little more stable. With the way the dollar plummeting lately, my securities have gone up in smoke.
Why do you care? Women and men are different all around. I don't think they can be compared.
No, but we went to the Kennedy Center.
You're always so careless.
In that case, what about having some noodles?
Yes. This is Bob Robinson. I ’ m calling from room number 627.
What are the side effects of this medication?
This morning we rented a car and we are on the way to Niagara Falls. I'm afraid we have a car accident near the border.
Played poker with my work friends.
Of course. Do you want to see it?
May I have two of them?
Can I order something from the kitchen?
So John, have you ever been to China before?
so nice to see you again, Louise. How are you doing?
My husband and I prefer to have no kids, but my mother-in-law is very traditional and wants grandkids.
one year already? It's amazing how time flies like that. Are you enjoying your job?
Bummer, I ’ m sorry to hear that, is he better now?
Nothing, how about you?
Well, you are right on that point. This is the reason that I don ’ t buy leather and I try to buy synthetic products.
Yes, orange juice will be fine for me. But how can you get the drink? It's so crowded there around the counter. You can barely move.
I want to have a continental breakfast.
Yes. I was president of the Student Council of our university.
No, the meeting will be held on the fourth floor.
My pleasure.What a pity you have to leave so soon!
Meeting new people is a good thing.
I should tell you that I'm checking out in about 30 minutes.
OK, how long are you staying?
No. This afternoon will be fine.
What did the boss say to you?
No, I only sleep a few hours a night.
that's fine. If you want, you can sign up for a pre-sessional interview.
Mr. Bryant? Hi, I'm Mike from Florence Incorporated. I'll glad you made it okay. How was your flight?
I know. I'll get over him. My first break up was painful because I was naive.
It's very easy to find.
Can't you make it a little cheaper?
Yes, I ’ ll pay for the call. Put her through, please.
Well, who all is going to be there?
Oh, it is not easy to learn!
Huh! I am really out-of-shape, Why aren't you out-of-breath?
What's on TV tonight?
Certainly, Sir. Via phone or Internet, any time, any place.
the reason I'm calling is because Ms. Collins will not be able to call you back until next week.
The coffee, books, music and sunshine are just beautiful there.
Are you more of a leader or a follower?
Jane, we are going to have a board meeting next Friday. Will you please arrange it for me?
I know that.
what are you doing?
Well, if you ever need help with an extension, you can dial O.
I hope I get an easy question like you did.
No, I didn't get hurt. Thanks for your concern.
Yeah, why not? I ’ Ve got a little free time on my hands. Where do you want to eat?
I think I know who you're talking about.
This is the charge for your laundry service on Nov. 20thA
I might be able to do that. But I don't think I can do it well.
Do you mind my sharing the same table with you?
Where do you need to be that is more important than school?
This one is good.
Some are entertaining, but I find most of them stupid and childish. For example, I don't understand why a person always goes into the house alone when something is suspicious.
Sure. Join my class next week.
What does that mean exactly?
Well, I like everything about it except the price.
Yeah. He always tickled my finny bone with his college stories.
To Australia. I'm going to visit my uncle in Brisbane for three weeks.
Be warned, sir. At certain hours the swim stations are very crowded.
I would like to buy some local handcrafts as gifts to my friends and relatives.
( They get everything ready ) Here is a free table. Let's sit down. Help yourself to some fish please. Isn't it delicious and appetizing?
Do you want to take any money out?
Yes. I ’ Ve just come back from Scotland.
No, he is at work now.
Sounds great, i ' d very much like having something thanks, when?
You may be right, but it doesn't hurt to find out more about what's going on in his life.
All right. When can I start?
I'm sorry to hear that. Anything I can do for you?
I don't care about that, Allen! What did he steal? That's the question!
I don't think so. Why?
All right. I'll see you in the lobby tomorrow morning.
Single or return?
Well, I guess I could tape The X-files and watch it later...
l am afraid there isn't any fancy soap in my room.
Yes, we certainly are. But Mr Smith is going to pay us for all the work we'll do.
What was the biggest turing point in your life?
Splendid. Will there be anything else?
Thank you. I've got just 50 minutes to go. Can we manage?
It is the Colorado River. You will go down the river in a boat if you wish.
Thank you for your understanding.
I wasn't quite prepared for the view of the Earth as we left. It was just awe-inspiring. It emerged from just a slightly curved horizon to a whole Earth, where you could look across oceans and continents in a single glance. I wasn't quite prepared for that. It's inevitably etched in my memory.
I've got to put together a sales pitch to give to our clients in the morning. You always give such amazing presentations, I was hoping you could give me some advice about how to win them over tomorrow.
Perhaps I could ask my husband to teach them foot ball or some thing. He watches too much Tv too.
It's about two miles away. that might be a little far to walk. Here's one that's about half a mile from the campus. The cost is 100 pounds a month and it's on a small street, just off a main street.
O. K. Thanks, Mom!
Sure, I used to work there. Go straight for about a mile, then turn left at the light. The mall will be on the right.
Yes, sir. Stainless steel products are always popular.
Do I have to send one by e-mail?
that's interesting. How often do you write a blog?
I've got some documents here that go with the L / C our company opened 10 days ago. I think there is something wrong.
I Couldn't care less.
Give me a break. It's not funny.
Well, we just got in some mangoes.
I have to think about it.
I ’ m sorry. I ’ ll arrange a non-smoking room for you right away. The doorman is going to help you with your luggage. I do apologize for the inconvenience.
Yes, but it was many years ago.
Because I have other obligations.
Let ’ s meet at the park at 6:00.
Thank God, it's Friday! Time for a drink! Let's hit the bars!
Yes, there are so many near our hoteI.Three blocks away from here, there is temple. It's famous for its building and paintings.lt ' s worth visiting.
In South America, the most common language is Spanish and Portuguese.
Yeah, how often do you go?
Frank, I want your advice on something. Some scientists I met at the conference 6 this afternoon have invited me to a party. Actually, they called it an informal get-together.
It certainly is. But the work is also hard here. You need to put a lot of long hard hours on the job to succeed in this field.
Thanks. I'll need a while to choose.Could you come back in a minute?
Cruise control? I don't like that.
Well, Mr. King is singing.
Yes. I won ’ t have to take a bus to go to my office. Is it a one-bedroom apartment?
I think Applied Sociology is a practical subject that can be widely applied to research on soci-ety and man. Hence, I chose it as my major.
How many potatoes do you need?
I'm sorry. The restaurant is full now. You have to wait for about half an hour. Would you care to have a drink at the lounge until a table is available?
You were lucky then. What did you do after that?
Give me two cokes also, please.
What do you feel like having?
Well, it'll take three weeks to demolish the old building and clear away the debris. We should be ready to start the construction work in week 23.
C :: Four by six will do.
Unfortunately not. If I can ’ t find anything in that field, then I could also work in the marketing field.
Now, that's a price that I like.
I wasn't kidding before, OK, I'm fine now.
that'd be great. Thanks! What time should I come over?
Well, let's see. Why don't we go dancing for a change? We haven't done that for a long time.
Exactly! I searched on the web and found a couple of HMO ’ s with low co-pays and good coverage. The deductibles are low, too.
OK! I expect you to accept our general terms and conditions of trade. We believe that through our cooperation, large transactions will be brought to speedy conclusion.
You could also take an antihistamine to help the rash go away quicker.
Well, actually, I don't mind eating carrots, but chocolate cakes are much better. You know I was born with a sweet tooth.
That ’ s great idea. Do you have the email address of human resource managers at any banks?
At the Gate.
What courses have you learned?
Come in and have some coffee, Anna. The kids have just gone out to the mall to hang out with their friends.
How do you get paid? If you don't mind my asking.
I have never seen those before, but since you're so excited it should be good.
What do you think are the main causes of war today?
I think so too, and you have a general understanding of the company now.
Yes. Do you have any seats available on a flight for Beijing leaving at 15
Is it very dangerous? I'm a little scared. Do you offer the lifebuoy for us?
Great. This is exactly what I was looking for. I'll buy it.
Good afternoon, miss, can I help you?
the pedal on your left is the brake and the one on your right is the gas.
Well, there's our computer lab on the first floor.
Just what are you proposing?
How much is your profit margin then?
Those are something gifts I bought for my friends.
Let it be! Time will tell.
I agree completely. I just don't understand what's wrong with them. Don't they have any humanity?
Would you like anything else, sir?
It was my pleasure. How about this evening? I feel very hungry now.
Hello, Miao Ping. Yes, I've been stuck in back to back meetings all day, but I really wanted to come and speak to you.
Hmm... I don't know. Even though it may not be gory, I think it would still totally freak me out.
Why have you stopped production?
All right. That Nealy done a little.
You are right. But what if the avalanche happened?
You can get one from student services.
Ouch! My ankle! I think It’s broken! You can ’ t just leave me like this! Are you calling an ambulance?
I'm so happy for you.
Thank you. I know I've nothing to offer you, but I'll never give you reason to cry.
Well, you guys work hard for it. It’s really beautiful.
Yes, that'd be all right.
really? I'll take it, and I'm leaving here tomorrow. Is it possible for you to send one in black to me by mail when you gte it in?
What kind of car is best for me?
Ii is distinguished for the strength of law and foreign languages studies..
I'll try them on.
What an amazing goal!
Oh, what's this? Second-hand cellphone store?
that makes sense. Probably less time to make dinner and the junk food is cheaper.
Come back. You haven't paid yet.
Sure. Would you like to have the loaf sliced?
I don't care about baseball.You know I need to practice for the chess championship and you promised to help with me if I washed the dishes for you last Sunday, and I did.
My family is not big, there are only 3 of us-my parents and I.
Was I? Sorry, I didn ’ t mean to be. I do apologize.
I really like it here so far.
Actually, my blood pressure isn't that high yet, but they say it increases with age.
sure. Here's a brochure about out English classes that meet in the evenings.
Take a bus then. It will only cost you 5 dollars.
But I'm going to stay here only for two days.
Sure. So you should know how to deal with the probable questions and then make flexible reply.
Follow me, please.
Any particular colour?
That's the Return of the King, right?
not yet. But I wonder if I can get my parents ’ consent.
Of course you do. They are silly stories just for little kids like you.
No, not yet, but I do feel a little feverish.
Well, you are behind in your rent ; It’s a 30 - day notice to vacate.
There's a double feature at the cinema this Saturday. Do you want to go with me?
well, I'm looking for some summer clothes.
OK, great Daddy, after supper, I'll embark on it.
OK. Have you ever been on a double decker bus?
Or just stuff the whole thing in your mouth at once!
Well, the nurse game me plenty of painkillers, but it did feel uncomfortable. I wasn ’ t permitted to eat anything for 48 hours. That was the worse thing.
So, tell me, Karl, hyoid you come all the way to Minnesota to live?
That's right. I thought I'd come back to buy a few more souvenirs.
Times are changing.
That's why I came to your office today. We think for your model WE - 506 $ 590 would be reasonable, because air conditioners of the same kind sold by other companies are usually about 579-649.
No problem. Could you let me have your card and the money to be deposited?
In the nineteenth century, working conditions were appalling, with workers being forced to work ten, twelve, and fourteen hours a day. Support for the eight-hour work day movement was growing rapidly, despite the indifference and hostility of many union leaders, and by April 1886, 250,000 workers were involved in the May Day movement. Previous legislative attempts to improve working conditions had failed, so labor organizers took drastic measures. They passed a resolution stating that eight hours would constitute a legal day ’ s work. And, on May First 1886, the resolution took effect.
In April or early May.
Maybe it is right since everything is possible. You know the market changes quickly these days. But I still have doubted those funds with bad stock performance. For me, his stock record is the very important criteria to decide which to buy. I really want to decrease the risk reach the minimum and achieve the maximum returns.
Oh, but I Just want to pick up a package. It won't take long.
Oh, that ’ s great. Thanks Grace. Can you give me her number? I ’ ll talk it over with Dan and give her a call tomorrow. Maybe this way I won ’ t be so tired every day, and Dan and I might even get to go
They look great! Hey, are you hungry? I know a good Ethiopian restaurant-Meskerem.
And your other names?
Hi, John! I haven ’ t seen you for ages.
look at my cell phone. I can listen to music, watch movies, take pictures, play games, surf the web and download documents. It's just like a PAD.
Thank you. No. I ’ m late for dinner at my house. I really have to go.
Yes, true, but how about other personal qualities?
I see. How much do I need to pay in total for this package?
Han Maimed, What's your plan for the weekend?
I have a severe headache now.
Hey, let ’ s pull over and look at that house over there.
Well, this one is worse.
I have an ACRE certificate, GRADE 2.
They always eat spaghetti and drink wine, don't they?
You are here on business, I think?
I genuinely appreciate this movie.
Have you anything to ask about the job?
Why only $ 300?
OK, then. I love these unique structured towers with the delicate carvings on them. It's really artistic.
Most people have no side effects. You will have to make sure that you drink plenty of liquids with this medication.
How do you understand the organizational structure of a company?
Much as we'd like to, but we've booked up already for that time.
$ 30.00 a week.
Actually it is. Perhaps you haven ’ t noticed the sign.
Oh, no. It seems that I've lost my train ticket.
I don't know what time it is.It must be about 6 o'clock. I have to go now. I don't want to be late.
Certainly. What's your size?
Do you need a receipt?
Yes. Thank you.
Yes. I got a bachelor's degree in English from Beijing University.
You have taken words out of my mouth. He is a tough customer.
OK, please wait for a moment.
It's a pity that I was traveling around Europe at that time.
I don ’ t have one.
This is the perfect opportunity for Ecuador to get ahead in this match and become World Champions! He gets ready for the kick. He shoots! and he...
That's right. Why do you ask?
Won't that be expensive?
We can check it and hand carry the small bags. And we have to open each for inspection.
That would be nice. How are you getting there?
It rained all day yesterday. The weather was awful last week.
Of course. First, use eye shadow to heighten your eyes.
Yes, she ’ ll be working closely with you on the marketing end of things.
That ’ s not bad at all.
She's very fond of detective stories?
What kind of lease is it?
I think that we last saw each other two years ago.
Thank you, but I just finished eating some chocolate-covered cherries.
Is this watch yours?
These accidents always cause traffic jams on rainy days.
Where can I call a taxi?
Are you doing anything tonight?
When I was young, my parents took me to the one in California. I always forget which — is that one Disneyland or Disneyworld?
500 feet! I would never be able to do that.
Yes. Don ’ t you think he should be pitied rather than accused?
Welcome, sir. What can I do for you?
It seems that you will have a nice day tomorrow.
That's sulphur you can smell. The whole of Taiwan is a volcanic region. That's why Taiwan has so many hot springs. It's volcanic activity.The sulfur smoke that you can smell is coming from those fumaroles over there.
I want to buy a pair of shoes for an interview.
Oh, It’s right downstairs. I ’ m going there myself. Just follow me.
I ’ m planning on living with my parents. Won't you?
If the Phoenix beats the Rocket, it will enter the final.
You know. Soup, well, society makes us like this.
Not yet. What happened?
I came here from PCC.
Not really, i would consider it easy.
What ’ s your rate?
Yes, but to the heath, this break has last long enough.
Cash or credit card?
We ’ Ve got four more games. I hope we can win all of them.
Please let us know the quantity required so that we can work out the premium and freight charges.
It sounds a good idea. Let ’ s go.
Not too bad. It is seemingly too hard for me to find a place for our date.
A training course? That must be costly.
Don ’ t be so sure. We may not go anywhere. My wife always worries too much. Who ’ s going to look after the dog? Who ’ s going to look after the house? Who ’ s going to look after the garden? We have t
Come on. All this fashion has reminded me that I want to buy some clothes.
Yes, there is a 15 percent discount.
$ 79 a night.
It depends on what you want. Do you want a one - or two-bedroom apartment?
Yes, this is my overseas travel accident insurance card.
I'm calling to confirm your booking.
If you need any help, let me know.
I found some jeans, and a new blouse.
You are booked on the A943 on 16/11 at 17:30 pm to Hong Kong with Cathy Pacific.
I think seven hundred is enough.
not really. But I like some of her songs. She's actually very talented. She's a song writer and fashion and fashion designer, too.
I ’ ll be glad if you would.
You won ’ t do it until tomorrow.
Do you have a washer down there?
No problem. OK... just checking for you. Ah, I'm afraid there aren't enough funds in your account to cover this transaction. What you can do is buy some US dollars, using local currency and we can credit your account with that amount.
Are they designed differently?
Sure. Any time.
Yes. But why do I have to fill out a form anyway? This is the emergency room.
My income remains the same but prices just continue to rise.
Is it because that would give the host the impression that the food was insufficient?
I have done it. But now I have an urgent appointment to keep. Could you drive me to the subway station?
Sir, wait!! I need your address!
Sure, I think I know the place.
You ever tried to quit?
No problem. The temple is quite large.
That ’ s no problem.
I have just checked in this afternoon. I am wondering what shall I do if I want to have some clothes washed.
And what is this?
Which window do I go to for parcel?
Right, this is not a drill. This is for all the marbles.
You'll only have to pay for the monthly sticker.
Yes this is the best we can do.
Yes, I think so. The security door is so firm that nobody can break in.
No problem. No matter what ’ s wrong with it, I can surely meet your satisfaction.
Hurry! Get a shot! ... Hand it over!
I would like a cup of decaf with cream and no sugar.
I think this route is quite interesting. How long does the tour last?
I'm sorry, but I can't come to your party.
I really want to get something to eat.
Is she American?
Good evening, Mr. Frank. Bourbon on the rocks?
Of course. The girls can stay in your room with you.
I'd love to, but my mother asks me to go home before 11:00 every night. She will worry if I get home late.
He seemed to be dumped by his girlfriend. I found his blogs were a little sad.
What ’ s wrong with it?
He was a very easy teacher. Are you thinking of taking a class with him?
Good. Just bring it back and we'll total it together.
That ’ s right, or I ’ m going to spend a lot of time walking.
Ah! I get your point. We have just what you need. Our Jinyuan apartments have several floor plans. The one bedroom apartments are very economical, but their layout makes great use of a small amount of space. I think you can find a very apartment there.
I hope that world leaders can get together and agree on a plan for action, but I doubt it ’ ll happen before It’s too late.
Some friends of mine are going to visit me this evening. Would you please buy some fruit for me?
What leadership qualities did you develop as an administrative personnel?
I didn't have any big plans.
I'd like to buy some souvenirs.
That's wonderful. I will see the Old Faithful for myself.
Those are in the non-smoking section, aren't they?
Don't worry. His teacher will tell him to be good.
And the people were so friendly!
How time flies! Now you are a college student out of a little girl.
What other classes are you going to take?
Hello, how can I help you today?
Cheer up! Let bygones be bygones.
If we hurry, can we get there in time?
Can you show me how to use this phone?
Hello? This is Steven. I'd like to speak to Mr. Brown, please.
But the full service will make your nails look much prettier and it is on discount now.
1021.It ' s a duet! Come on, Pick the mic and sing along!
Well, let's see if we can find some cheap airfare and we can go towards the end of the year.
Certainly. My name is Janet Smith, and my phone number is 610-555-1234.
Could you show me where the Chinesc-style clothing is located? I want to buy a silk coat.
I heard that you moved to Florida.
The weather in California is unpredictable, so you never know.
If we spend all the money, we will try and win the football pools again.
All right. Thank you for coming today.
You're right, sir. Your whole day is still ahead of you.
Yes, I can. I have three years experience in operating computers.
My internet is having problems connecting.
Yes. That ’ s why we have everything on computer files. We don ’ t use much paper at our office. After lunch, I had to deal with a complaint form a client.
Well, yes, I do. I'm a real fan of Wanton Marsalis.
Because there is a coupon for almost every product, we always bring coupons on our shopping trips.
is your house well-lit?
Sure. Can you have her call me back on my cell phone number?
Have you got a new one?
Which side are you on?
Yes, we have this service. Have you got a deposit certificate and your passport? I'm sorry to ask you, but your passport is very important.
Thank you for your kindness.
No. I will fly back twelve days from now.
I sent my resume to a computer company and am waiting for their call.
I could really use a 5 % rise.
yes, she's not only building the school, but is also using her own money for the upkeep of the school and to pay the teachers a fair salary.
I absolutely love the apartment.
Yes, he described her to me, and she sounded like my type.
This will be the best ski trip I've ever taken. I can't wait to use my new hoard.
You mean they're kicking you out?
That sounds good to me.
Why don't we Chinese have our own Valentine's Day?
I see.Oh, well some other time perhaps.
Hmm. I'll have to think about this for a second.
My tooth is killing me!
To find out if you are eligible for our Fixed Asset Loan, we will have to look at various aspects of your business, such as your long-term business prospects, your cash flow, your profitability, your capital structure...
Would you like another beer?
Yeah, and most importantly, she's single! Man, I could tell from the moment I saw her, she's the girl of my dreams!
No, but this is an emergency! Please!
I agree. The colors must be soft and pleasant. You should feel comfortable when you cook our dinners.
All these products are our best-selling lines. The prices of our products will change according to that of the international market demand. And we are always open to negotiate, especially on larger orders. What do you have in mind?
I know of a place you'll like and you have got to be there.
Hello, this is Helen speaking.
Oh, I forget. Sorry.
Yes? Who ’ s calling?
How many languages can you speak?
Well, it looks like you have.You will need to see your doctor to get a new prescription.
Well, it's hard to say. I cough a lot in the evening.
Yes. They will be ready in a few minutes.
Well, I've got one here. It's 260 a month.
An attendant will pass them around after we take off.
Cats are beautiful and lovely, aren ’ t they?
All right.How about other guests?
My name is Paul.Is Mr.Smith in?
But the price is too high.
Don't tell me you lost it.
I'm afraid that I'm very ill.
Could I get a hamburger, please?
Yes. So when the cops arrived, they didn't believe his story
It's forty-five dollars a night for two. Is anyone else traveling with you?
what are you looking for?
Have you heard the news?
Sounds good, although, do you think we can qualify for insurance? Those insurance companies are real pirates when it comes to money.
Would you please put that cigarette out? I get sick on it.
Thank you. I'm glad that you don't believe that your guests are liars.
hey, darling, I think I might have a little heatstroke from being in the sun all day. I was so relaxed. It felt as if I were in another world.
I have to start eating better too.
Well, the reason why I am calling is to tell her that our appointment in next month will have to be postponed. And the exact time for this meeting will be discussed after she comes back.
No. It's only about five minutes ' walk.
Actually, I have applied to several companies recently. But I am most satisfied with your company.
See you then. Goodbye.
that ’ s my little secret. Did you like the snacks and I prepared?
I won't tell you, unless you promise to let me watch it with you.
Good afternoon. I would like my hair done.
Oh, hello. I'm Bias Chettri.
Well, this company can be dated back to 1893, so it has a hundred years of history.
How about Joining our summer camp next week?
No problem. Next time, just pay closer attention.
That's right. And it's a B that I'll be writing too. Her name is Olga.
We have hundreds of constituencies and the voters in each one elect a member of parliament. Most people call them mp ’ s.
I enjoyed the fish the most.
Do you know that Mary an Ben have already separated?
No, can I take a message?
Fine.The next course starts a week from tomorrow.
Yes, we have a wide selection of mixed drinks available from our bar.
That's true. But I love the living room ; it's huge and filled with sunshine.
Let's have a look at the map first.
I've been fed up with study.
I don't know how to adjust my life. Would you give me a piece of advice?
You can nod or ask questions at the right time to show that you have already understood or you are quite interested in his words.
What do you mean by us?
But the rain has been pouring down for two days. We ’ Ve both caught colds.
What ’ s next?
I ’ m sure you will.
If the furniture is pleasantly designed and high-quality stuff, we intend to buy several thousand sets.
I was a runner-a long-distance runner.
Ok, Mrs wang. I'll do that.
You have your ducks in a row.
how did the business trip go?
Is the wet patch just in one place?
Fancy seeing you here 。 Lily.
That ’ s in one month, and besides, this is a group date with all of our friends.
I hope so, Dana. My instructions are to negotiate hard on this deal, but I'm trying very hard to reach some middle ground.
Okay, that's good.
I like playing computer games, but I'm not really into board games.
I'd like to eat a bowl of dumplings.
I was sick most of the night.
Oh, we have quite a regular, cold perm, straight perm, pin curl and foam.
I can ’ t seem to make a decision.
Let's start the interview with some questions. Tell me about yourself and your past experience.
I have just left school, but I am well acquainted with office work.
I could help you with that.
My wife. She suffers from a bad cold.
I think I know, because this happened before.
That ’ s okay.
I wanted to show you the cabin. We only had another half-hour to go.
Really? I thought his parents had died several years ago.
I ’ m a GS - 15. That ’ s high on the scale of workers, but even a GS - 1 is paid a living wage.
That's the warehouse where the larger items of medical instruments are stored. We keep a stock of the fast-moving items so that urgent orders can be met quickly from stock. ( in the workshop ) This is one of our three workshops. This is the delivery bay here.
Yikes! What was that noise?
we've got plenty of inflatables, but if you want to sit on a chair, you'll have to bring your own sunlounger.
Excuse me. We ordered too much. May we take the food home?
you're kidding me! that sounds really scary!
No, Sir.It has an hour layover in London.
Do you like it personally?
When will you be able to fix it?
Yes, you should have.
It's 7500 yuan per square meter, and I really like the one with three bedrooms and a large living room. Its total area is about 80 square meters.
You get 3 weeks paid vacation that you may use as you wish.
Hurry up, Daniel, it's Barbie time.
That's excellent. How have you managed that?
To tell the truth, I don ’ t really like him either. He ’ s kind of boring and not very active. He always looks unhappy too.
We're here today to present to you the results of our marketing research regarding the consumer behavior.
It sounds easy when you say it like that. In reality, It’s harder to make peace between countries.
Great! As you know however, the day in New York has hardly begun.
Excuse me, ma'am, can I help you find anything?
Easy stuff. But thanks. And the admiration is mutual.
I see you have bought the latest copy of beauty and fashion. Are there any interesting articles in it?
Oh, really? Which bulletin board?
That's what I understand.
How was your trip to Brazil? Did you learn anything?
Thanks for letting me know, home-girl.
Would you fill out this form?
Could I ask some questions regarding to the social benefits?
That sounds perfect.And let's go out for coffee after the show.
In that case, we'll take an order of onion rings with our first choice.
Yup, a big potluck buffet. And then-notice there are no children around?
So now do you want a full-time job or part-time job?
I'll keep that in mind. Does everything on the desk belong to me?
Yes, sir. I'm really so sorry about that.
I am really sorry to hear that.
It depends. In some poor, underdeveloped areas, children's education is a problem. Many kids cannot afford to go to school.
But Mom! Today we ’ re playing football! I love football!
What schools have you attended?
I like collecting stamps.
I'll give it a try. Give me a call and let's go down together.
That's bad! I've been trying to call him for the last ten minutes, but your line has been busy.Will he be back soon?
Well, of course, the choice is up to you. Good luck!
That ’ s unless there is a traffic jam. It could take three hours.
Cool. Then I can just throw everything in the dryer for an hour and It’s all set right?
Do you have any other special skills?
But when does the plane take off?
I don ’ t mind paying high rent to live in New York.
I'm really curious. What is it like doing housework all day for a living?
Just a minute. I need to make a list of thinks that we need.
Kristy, that's wonderful! Thanks so much for contacting me personally.
I am the manager.Can I help you?
I would like that Anna, but I think I ’ ll need a little space for a bit.
With pleasure. We arrange two kinds of tourist programs for Suzhou, a six-day tour by train and a five-day flying journey.
I suppose you were happy to forget about the outside world.
It would be very hard work. Are you sure?
I'm sorry that I'm late. I couldn't find the room.
When did you start worrying about your weight?
A little French.
Yes, they are. I gave them a good clean. They are in good condition and don ’ t need to be replaced.
ok. You haven ’ t seen my company car, have you?
You do realize you are going to have to pay late fees, right?
Just go! It's Valentine's Day!
ok. How about some lamb kebabs?
Don ’ t worry, mum. I will study hard tomorrow.
It's just our policy. We would accept a certified check or a direct bank remittance.
The weather is terrible.
Me too, I don't know why, but every time I see the guy, I break into a cold sweat.
That's why we want to have a look at other hotels. We don ’ t want to spend too much on an extravagant wedding reception.
How could have the heart to do that? She needs warmth and help.
I'll teach you.
While the curtains are being made, I can start having people look at the kitchen. I can't stand that old kitchen. I won't be able to cook there. I don't want to use that electric stove.
All right. Thank you very much.
Yeah, Richard said something to me that I didn't appreciate.
I say we get drunk tonight. I don't want to think about all this stuff.
About 3-4 % of the gross sales.
Uh, I'm not sure. Are these all in good condition?
It's my new radio earphone.
When ’ re you getting married?
You mean your friends. I think it's cruel.
Instead of walking you can take this shuttle to get you there faster.
Sure. But you must show us the receipt. If something comes up, we'll change it for you.
Of course... here you are. I'm sorry the pajamas didn't work out for you.
I have a flashlight in my closet. If you want to use that to read, you can.
I will feel better when I know what the problem is. Thank you for the drugs.
Yes, it is. Are you in a hurry sir?
Well, happy birthday. If it was sent yesterday using the usual service, it should be here already. You do have an account with us, right?
No, from New Zealand, sir. I visited New Zealand and saw lots of overseas people there.
And your weaknesses?
Will the house be mine when we finish these documents?
Ok. Can I ask who is calling, please?
Hi, this is Tom Port. May I speak to Mr. Smith?
That's strange. I have Mr. Lin on the phone right now, and he says that he didn't receive any email from us yesterday. Are you sure you sent it?
Good. Tonight 8 o'clock.
Hello, could you tell me my test results?
I think you've got a cold.
You should easily be able to find a job with that major.
Mommy, can I stay up until eleven o'clock?
There are different ways of conducting a job search. Do you know what you want to do?
I should be coming in on the 11:30 mooring flight. How far is the office from the airport?
One in English, please.
It's boring, right?
I see. What a pity. I have to appreciate it carefully.
Those poor Egyptians slaves worked so hard and you want to give aliens all the credit!
I don't know what happened to me. I just lost it.
I'd like to know what kind of tour your travel agency has.
I've got a headache and sore throat.
Not yet. Let's go to that restaurant on the corner.
Like Elvin. He isn't too happy about what you promised Stars.com.
When did you buy your new computer?
If we decide to hire you, we'd pay you two thousand and five hundred yuan a month at the start. You can have Saturdays and Sundays off. Besides, you may have a paid month holiday every year. How do you think about it?
You say that now, Lily, but you'll thank me later. I'm your mom, and mother knows best.
You should just get the basics.
I had a ham sandwich with mayonnaise for lunch.
Did you see if all the connections are right?
OK. I guess I could add something. Tell them that I send my love.
OK. Do you think I can play football tomorrow?
Excuse me. But are you Mrs. Smith from America?
You wouldn't do a thing like that!
Does it taste good?
Sure. I think filet steak will be a good choice. It's the best local food.
It’s so relaxing, taking a walk in the country. The air is so fresh and clean.
Yes, we accept Visa and MasterCard.
Well, you can ’ t do it until tomorrow, and I need it fixed now.
You shouldn't have used the machine. Did you lose your money?
Sure, that ’ ll be fine for me. I ’ ll come to your office so you can show how you set up these macros.
Well, you know how I am about exams. I'm a perfectionist.
How about you, Daniel?
It's seven-thirty. I want to know who left this note on my desk.
Adding in your expenses, I calculate that you can spend three hundred thousand on a house.
OK. Our check-in time is after 12:00. And see you tomorrow.
Aunt Cindy, do you shop online often?
John, do you mind helping me prepare for the picnic?
No, thanks. I'm fine. Did you have a nice holiday?
It's the Powell orchestra.
But his wife has wide relations. You may ask her for advice.
That will be ninety-five cents in all.
Room service.what can I do for you?
Don't think so much. Take a good sleep and you'll feel better soon.
An mp4 player? why don't you buy a new cell phone? You can find an mp4 player inside any of the latest cell phones. mp4?
Green salad please.
What kinds of things did you discover in my home inspection?
I'll keep that in mind. And how much is it altogether?
No, thanks. I'm just looking.
Ah, yes, here it is, you have a standard double room, non smoking on the 3rd floor, I just need to see some identification and the credit card you booked the room with if you don ’ t mind.
yeah, you know what? I've been going to the club regularly. The training really pays off. Now I am in a good shape and I know more about how to keep fit.
Oh, I forget.Sorry.
Hi! I need to request a wake-up call for tomorrow morning.
That's right, even though I did set the alarm last night.
Thanks. I'm flattered.
Did you feed the puppies today?
In the hotel.
She is a clever mother.
Mr Green, please.
Isn't this the car store?
How do you do, Mr.Smith? This is Lili. I'm calling to thank you for the wonderful dinner we had yesterday. I enjoyed it very much.
Yes. But I am afraid it is too thick to wear in summer.
Good. I don't want to leave Beijing without visiting it.
Yes, could you tell me if there is a laundry in this hotel?
Then why do you want to sell it?
It sounds cool. The rhythms look really difficult.
There ’ s a big sale on clothes and sporting goods at Riverside Mall.
Can I help you with anything else?
That ’ s right! We apply CPR in the case of cardiac arrest or pulmonary arrest.
I am going to go sign my name in the registry to let the listing agent know that we were here.
I know it's painful, but it's only temporary. After the pain goes away, you'll find other girls.
This engineers thing is so sus.
What kind of sponsoring are we talking about? I don't know how effective sponsorship really is...
I'm afraid you can't. You'll have to go out there and walk around.
Well, probably. Probably you will have to wait in line if you don't have tickets.
Oh, I ’ m sorry. But this isn ’ t a no-smoker, isn ’ t it? I mean would you mind if I smoke here?
Please, I wish you would.
Normally, they're $ 2 each. Today, they're only $ 1 each.
How long will it take? I hope it won't be too long.
Good afternoon, Mr. Green.
What about the features in the room?
OK. I want to make an omelet, so actually this is really silly, I've never made one before. How do you make an omelet?
About a year ago. She lives in an apartment on 3rd street, across from the public library.
Are you going to find out if it is a boy or a girl?
Certainly. It could really benefit someone like you. Besides insurance for you, you can also get more or less dividends from the insurance company.
You have a real talent, Ellen!
Yes, but my house has large windows and so gets lots of sun. And it has a small balcony at the top.
Perfect. Thank you. Bye...
All right. It's just four o'clock.
Here ' s my passport. I'm a visiting scholar.
Maybe that's why I couldn't find it. All the documents on Nova are filed under ' V '.
Oh, you can rest assured that they'll be no problem.
Is this where we'll be holding the meeting?
I am glad to tell you that you are supposed to come for an interview tomorrow. Are you free tomorrow?
How long is the flight?
Haven't you heard that your novel has won The Nobel Prize?
I do.We haven't watered them for quite a few days.
that was a really good meal, Gordon.
Hello, may I make an appointment for sometime early this afternoon?
How do you know that I didn ’ t try? I just couldn ’ t manage it.
Welcome to China, Mr. White.
What do you think would be the right amount to tip?
Perhaps you'd enjoy the lamb
Will it be a church wedding or a civil ceremony?
Sometime next year.
Why did you put it off until the last minute?
Is that really what you want?
Splendid! When is it gonna be finished?
Well, I ’ Ve got some papers due.
Yes, unfortunately. I'm very much subject to it.
Here ’ s the $ 5.00.
See that. It's so dangerous. My mom would never allow me to do that.
Let me tell you the story.In 1892, Patty Smith Hill and Mildred Hill wrote a song called ' Good Morning to you '. But later someone added the words ' Happy Birthday ' to their tune.
Can I borrow one of your pens, Amy?
Yes. I am sure I can. I was an English major in college.
I know. One out of every three travelers from Taiwan seems to be carrying them.They are being smuggled in by the thousands.
So soon? It seems to be in the early stages.
Twelve. He's very sensible for his age.
You have lots of friends. They will be there, too!
You really shouldn't watch so much television.
Cash, credit card, cheque anything. I just have to see a doctor. I am in pain.
Did you watch television last night, Charles?
Hi Bob, this is my friend Mary.
Ok, i will get one for your.Here you are.
What are you working on?
And listen to this! What do you think of sailing, swimming, windsurfing, and fishing?
Maybe I am just homesick. I know you ’ re right. I just miss China, that ’ s all.
You'll never lose weight if you listen to your stomach.
OK. Wait a second, please.
Hello, I'd like to speak to Mike please.
Are you available for travel?
I usually just drive.
I can't agree with you. We have quotation from other sources too. Their prices are lower than yours.
It’s my pleasure. Can I get you another glass of champagne?
Well, as a rule, the contract will become void automatically, if both sides do not agree to renew it when time comes.
We have to find a shelter.
Ryan, this is Malia, and I am afraid that I am feeling a bit under the weather.
Why don't you go?
Sure you can. But I'm only gonna keep it for a month.
Sure, I love salad!
Do you plan on voting?
I see. For the sake of us all, we should be an active participator in the prevention of it.
This guy tried to rob the bank.
Mr. Lee, all ready to check out? We ’ Ve already prepared your bill, and housekeeping has done a quick check of the room. How will you be paying?
Do you have any apartment to rent?
You can start by meeting her at the bus stop and saying hello to her.
Oh really? She gave me mine earlier today.
I think my greatest accomplishment has been acquiring the Hans account.
Yes. And we checked with the city and we have permission to use the park adjacent to the library.
Very well then. Are mornings or afternoons best?
I believe we are all out of food.
we've booked you a room in the same hotel as your meetings, so you won't need to deal much with the transportation system.
Maybe you are right. Please take care of yourself when you make money. Anyway health is the most important thing.
Oh, I see. Well, I don't plan on only paying the minimum, but it's good to know that I can if I had to. Thanks for that.
No problem. You know him. He ’ s the kind of guy that ’ s always willing to go the extra miles.
I can take it then. I have that time slot free.
And your company name, please.
OK, after we finish our preparation, we'll go to the supermarket.
Yes, I do. I like traveling very much.
My name is Jenny Clinton.
No. Don't put mustard in it.
I ’ m going on trial.
T & D? Oh, yes, sure. How long have you worked there?
You are such a good father. It's next Sunday.
This is Wang Miao from AB company speaking. Our CEO Mr. Green has an appointment with Mr. Liang tomorrow morning. But there is a minor change in tomorrow's schedule. Mr. Green has an abrupt urgent case tomorrow and he has to go abroad today. He wanted me to convey his apology to Mr. Wang.
From the looks of this house from the outside, I don ’ t really think that I want to go inside.
Our team played hard and won.
Great. She'll be so happy.
But I have to go to my homeroom.
Too bad you missed Jane's performance.
Good morning, doctor. I have a terrible headache.
Hello, I was wondering if I could talk with the apartment manager.
There's some leftover pizza from last night.
Did you get the position you wanted?
Please! Free souvenirs are the only true souvenirs.
Let's go to Starbucks and think of something to do then.
Well, the best way to avoid serious illnesses is to find out about them early. So try to come at least once a year for your own good.
Dad, how can we get to the zoo?
I'm going to mow the lawn.
In ten dollar bill, please.
I ’ m going to paint it pink.
All right. Can I pay with credit cards?
I have a sore throat and my chest hurts.
To our office which is on the third floor.
I think the government fined him a small amount, and he kept the rest in his foreign bank accounts. He's still a millionaire.
Your garden is really lovely.
Hello. This is Mrs. Wilson. I'd like to buy a new car. Could you offer me a new type of the car, please?
Please tell him to call Mr.Baker at the Grand Restaurant. It's urgent.
That's excellent. Well, for our Personal Automobile Consumer Loan we offer some really competitive rates. The maximum repayment period for this type of loan is 5 years.
Pleased to meet you too. And where are you from, Robin?
Don't mention it. Call back if you have any more questions.
Yes.It ' s quite troublesome.
No, thank you. I want to have a look at that scarf.
It's all written on the brochure price list. I believe there will be one right for you. Please hurry up because almost half of units have already gone.
OK. Then I'll be expecting you.
You know. I really don't those big hotels.
Why did your parents make you stay at home?
Boxing. It was excellent.
but you look quite proficient in using them now.
Yeah, my head hurts, that ’ s all. I ’ Ve been in physics class all day. It’s killer!
What do you need to do?
Five months later.
But you bought it only last month.
So let's get registered tomorrow.
Yes, I am. I really don't know anyone.
I wish you the best of luck.
Hello! I need to make a copy of something at once.
No, thank you, Mrs. Carter. I'm fine for now.
That's good. What special skills do you have, can you tell me?
Yes, I did. I have never tasted anything like this.
Well we have espresso, cappuccino, latte, skinny latte or Americano.
No, that ’ s all. Thanks.
Come in. It's nice to see you again.
I mean you can buy things through the Internet, that is E-commerce.
Where'd the rest of your money for the bus go?
Oh, I see what you mean!
Tell me about the courses of your major in university.
I ’ Ve been thinking, and well, I think we need to start seeing other people.
Of course, we will, sir.
Do you have a seat available on the same flight the day after tomorrow?
That sounds pretty good. But isn't downloading music illegal?
I'd like some grapefruit juice, marmalade, two scrambled eggs with two sausages, toast, and a pot of black coffee, please. How long will it take?
Would you talk to me about taking one of Dr. Miller's classes?
What kinds do you have?
Aha. I've read of my roommate. I made a move today.
If you're hungry, then cook something.
Did you have the watch before getting the ring?
And why are you yarning now? Are you bored?
No, sir. The next stop is Wangfujing.
This is Rachel in Human Resources. I need two boxes of company letterhead, one box of ball-point pens, and a box of envelopes.
Ok, that's probably expensive, but not that bad.
That's nice of you.
Suppose you want to find a book by your professor, William Smith. You'd look under SMITH and then WILLIAM. Since that's very common name, you may have to go through several ' William Smith ' until you come to the one who wrote book on the subject you are interested in.
Trust me, the food isn't half bad.
I had no idea that there were specific things that should be given on different anniversaries.
Really? What about the pay rate? Are the wages pretty high?
I usually go to see a live band about twice a month. What about you?
No way. It might belong to somebody else. You can't keep it here.
Yeah, if you ’ re a girl.
I only want a little off the top and the sides and back to have clean lines.
Where is it located?
Cool, we can take shuttlecock and badminton racket.
No, we ’ re going to get that done next week.
Our neighbor, Bruce, will take part in the relay race. Let's go have a look.
Well, I'm afraid I must be going now. I have no idea it was so late.
Fine, just get it! We have been shopping for furniture for five hours! I ’ m so tired!
Waiter, we'd like a menu first, please.
the air quality in this city is horrendous! The pollution levels were so high that we weren't supposed to go outside with a face mask again!
We're going to talk about Australia. Or your going to talk about Australia. So first of all how any people live in Australia?
I like Chinese food, too. I like dumplings best.
Are we going to come back here for lunch?
What does she do?
it must have been a few years ago now.
All right. Suit yourself. I am going swimming.
You are probably right. I'll go right now and apologize. I try hard not to be late but it is difficult with Beijing traffic.
Double-room, please. It's for an American couple.
I would be happy to see you this afternoon. If you are feeling upset, please bring a friend or relative along.
Well, I don ’ t want to be ripped like you! I just want a good physique with weights and Carpio.
Wow, what a lovely cake.
They ’ re keyboard operators. This is Michael Baker, and this is Jeremy Short.
Mr. Johnson, for the unguaranteed reservation, we can only hold the room by 6 p. m., because it is the peak season now. If you make a guaranteed reservation, we can hold the room overnight. Would you like to make a guaranteed reservation by credit card?
I'd love to help you! What is your budget for the dinner?
When is your flight?
Not much, I have a car.
I usually go in my free time on the weekends. How about you?
It's hard to say, because each team has my idols.
Certainly.How do you like to have it made?
Are you there yet?
That's a great idea. Why don't you call him. I already talked to him a couple of times and it might be good for him to hear from somebody else.
What do you consider to be your strong points?
Cook it over a high flame, so that it will be ready quickly.Keep stirring the meat around the frying pan.Don ’ t let the meat stick to the bottom of the pan.
I ’ m fabulous.
What's a homeroom?
I see. Don't worry, just a common cold.
Dieting. It's the price we pay to make men notice us.
What kind of dance do you like?
Well, it's illegal to bring food and drinks into the theater.
I like taking photos.
Hello, Mr. Macmillan.
That will be good.
Which restaurant do you prefer?
That's what I ate yesterday.
good idea. that ' s why i think i have culture. you have any other suggestions?
Nandu. Nandu, how do you spell you name?
Yes, and he also...
Yeah! Gambling is often a curse. By gambling we lose time and treasure, two things most precious to a man.
Let me see.Oh, yes.We have your reservation number.
Yeah, What happened?
Yes, it was a very evenly matched game.
I'm very sorry. I didn't realize it. I promise I'll keep it down in the future.
Chef ’ s salad for starter. And what would you like to have for the main course?
It's easier said than done. When you actually play, it can be very frustrating.
Let me see... yes, 15,880 NT. After the discount, your total comes to 12,704 NT. Here's your free teddy bear, free panties and your card application.
Did you like the tour of Universal Studios?
Two tickets, please. How much are they?
Indeed, you're exactly right!
There is no need to be so frustrated.
One of the reasons for our good quality products is because of our quality inspection system, which is the best of its kind.
Yes, I did. Did you?
Is there any discount for a non-direct flight?
Are you studying any languages here?
Remember the garden party they gave when we were in England?
Just stop here for a moment. The police will not notice.
I don't know. You have to be smart, but you have to be lucky too.Some games are all luck. With some, you need to be smart.
They seemed impressed, and offered me a position as a junior local news reporter. I ended up staying two years there actually. I was in charge of the sports news section of the newspaper. I really
No, it stopped at Honolulu.Would you like to book one?
I don ’ t agree with you. I maintain that we ’ re healthier, wealthier and wiser than we were a hundred years ago.
I'm not sure, but let me check my schedule... Ah, no. I have nothing then.
Take much and you can have them six yuan per kilo.
Certainly, I'll be going.
Well, I planned the layout of the newspaper and then I assigned various articles and columns to other students to write. I wrote the editorial each time.
If so, I suggest you have a taste for Sichuan food. Most Sichuan dishes are spicy and hot, but they have different tastes.
I feel so good. That warm hot pot certainly hits the spot on winter nights.
How would you feel about relocating to another state?
So are we, our counter-offer is in line with the world market.
I'm starving, so maybe we could go somewhere with large portions.
Oh, hi Stacy.
Never mind, come right in. I've almost finished. You always keep the room neat and tidy, I must say. It saves me a lot of work, but you should let me do it.
You have to do it in three days.
At least you know what American women generally like in a man.
One Grand Slam breakfast for you!
We'll get to go fishing at the river. I hate fish.
Then I'll see you in the parking lot at five! Thank you!
Certainly, sir. If you need anything else, please let me know, and I'll be happy to get it for you right away.
I don't need your help, jerk.
I'm sure he was off-side.
I wrote the check out for too much.
That was earlier this morning.
How could it be?
Come on! I'll pay you back on Tuesday.
Ok. I'll call you back after I'm done.
You've got everyone figured out, don't you?
it is full of energy.
I understand that, but you'd feel better if you took a break, even for just a short while.
No, that ’ s not all your fault.
Yes, it's pretty bright in there and big enough for our children to play.
Have you bumped your head or fallen lately?
And where will you be staying?
I'd like to.
Do you want me to fill it out now?
I'm happy to see you again.
Yes. I was Propaganda department minister of our university.
Very well, Mr Zhang. I'll not reduce my order. I'll take the full quantity you offer. And I'll arrange for the L / C to be opened in your favor as soon as I get home.
I think 250 dollars should be sufficient.
Are there any special instructions about this medication?
Good morning, Ms.Wilson. I've got a lot to learn from you. I think I'll enjoy working with you.
Rockets vs Lakers. Yao Ming, my idol, will appear in front of several hundred million of the worldwide audience.
I'll have that too.
That should be no problem. May I have your full name, please?
With the greatest pleasure! Where is the concert held this evening?
I would also like to check out this video.
Yes. All the bidders will be invited to join us to supervise the tender-opening.
My aunt Mary just flew in from Cleveland and she laid one right on my right cheek.
Is Tim in the garden, too?
Yes, but I ’ m afraid It’s still a mess. I haven ’ t put anything away yet.
Hello, this is Li Bo speaking.
No, it isn't.
Got it, Mom.
Maybe you should consider going to a hot springs resort outside of Beijing. I heard they are very relaxing.
Don't you think you would miss having other people around?
It’s just the cows that are grazing over there. We can milk them later.
Hi dude, you look upset, what's up?
Very good, sir. Your order will be ready in one week.
Absolutely, i go to there to work three times a week, bend it for 6 month now.
hello, Deva, how are you?
But this should have been handed in last Thursday.
Great. Where is it?
I also want to pack up my package. This is the notes.
Just a moment... I'm afraid there's nobody there right now. Could I take a message?
How long do you expect her to live?
It's said that John's broken up.
Not too good actually, people are not spending as much as before!
It's this cold weather we're having.
I want to join in the bus tour.
I would love to be famous and have thousands of adoring fans.
Are you sure? I don't want to inconvenience you.
I've got a reservation here. My name is John Sandals.
Here is a free class going on right over there. Go and join them.
Get some snack foods, too, dude.
Ok. Choose the card which you like best, and fill in the following blanks with both your and your friend's names and e-mail addresses.
I have some great news! I was able to switch to the night shift!
You have to have your ticket checked.
he might be allergic to pollen. My niece is allergic to pollen. It seems like she has a cold, but in fact It’s her allergy.
You can't help learning when you're using it all day. You'll see. A few weeks ' study in the school will have a similar effect on you.
No, thank you. I'll be all right as soon as the plane gets out of this turbulence.
lt's made of silk and you had better wash it by hand in cold water.
Yes. We've lived in Taiwan for a while. I had a gas stove in the States, too.
I need you for my court date.
Easy? Ha!! It was easy for them to cheat you!!
I'm sorry. If you look at the ad again, you'll see that the other brand is on sale.
yes, I mean it.
I was not born yesterday. It must be either you or Adam.
That's all right. I hope we can help you at some other time. Good-bye.
Nowadays, you can be a DJ. You can mix dance music. You don't need to be able to play music instrument or thing.
We learnt about vegetables and meat at school. But I never see the real thing.
But I want to be a tour guide very much because I like traveling and meeting various kinds of people. So I took an evening course at the Tourism School of Beijing after graduation and I have gotten a qualification certificate.
A postal order for four hundred dollars.
If I could, I would like to view the apartment sometime today.
Cool! That's a great idea. What did you have in mind?
What are they?
Have you seen the movie Batwoman?
That musicians was lowkey awesome.
Any other common customs of your New Year?
Just a moment, please. I'll check for you.
It's not that bad. You probably just had a bad experience once.
So, Ms. Thou, we're a newly-established company, but we have wide connections with wholesalers and retailers all over America.
Then you pretended to go without buying it?
Your secretary seems to think she is being harassed.
I just graduated from high school.
Right, I'll be right over.
I can try to get the book from a different library.
It seems perfect.
That ’ s all. How much altogether?
But we won't have enough time for dinner.
Where would you like to transfer money from?
But anyway, he won at last.
Does the bathroom have a bath or a shower?
Did you go to the Magic Kingdom?
I just bought a new atlas. I ’ m looking this map of the world. Look at Russia! That ’ s a vast country.
Hey, Jeff, where's your stereo?
Can she speak Chinese to her students?
As you can see from the statements for my Current Account, I have never been overdrawn. I'm always very careful about that.
No, not that one. The big one.
Have you thought about the electrician program over there?
Yes, that's exactly the bug I got. Though, I do kind of like the pictures.
Washing clothes at a Laundromat costs a lot less money.
You'd better tell your sister what happened and face the music.
Great. I'll take one.
Mrs. Smith, what do you do for work?
Hello, thanks for calling 123 Tech Help, I ’ m Todd. How can I help you?
What about cash?
Hello, Mr. Hao. I am calling to tell you that you are not selected as our employee. Sorry.
You're just a little run-down from overwork.
At a formal dinner, you wait for your hostess to put hers on her lap first.
Congratulations! I heard that you are going to take a two-week training course in the headquarter.
You need to make sure you arrive on time, smile, be pleasant and friendly, look the person in the eye and answer all questions to the best of your ability. You'll do great!
Yes. She teaches our class three times a week.
Let me see if I can find one of these classes on another day.
Room service. Can I help you?
You ’ re welcome. I hope your wife is feeling better soon.
Did you see the news today?
I really envy you, Danny.
I don't see any wrinkles or sagging skin! You'd better stop being so ridiculous.
How to do it?
All right. I graduated and got the degree of bachelor of economics from Nanjing University 4 years ago. My major is international trade.
Yes. You can also enjoy legal holidays and year-end bonus.
I'd like to book two tickets for the film ' Jane Eyre ' for this evening, please.
There ’ s a problem with my check.
Wait a moment, mom.
I want to transfer $ 100.
And I hear he gives very good lectures.
No, please, Mom! Don't make me gargle with saltwater!
Uh, yes. I'm going to the States and I need some traveler's checks.
Well, this is not quite the style I want. Have you any suit in fashion?
Can you put me through to Mr. Lining?
Of course, but we aren't going out, we're just friends.
Do you quote CIF or FOB?
I don't understand why I'm being arrested.
Not really, do you?
Oh hi Jim. No I just got back. I thought you were on vacation now.
Yeah, it's must for me.
Then you haven't browsed eBay before... get online. Don't hang up!
It doesn't matter, but it needs to be close to the subway or on a convenient bus route.
Thanks a lot. Have a nice day.
Thank god you showed up when you did! He ’ s insane! Do you think we should call the police?
Could you please help me to check out the book?
There ’ s problem with my bank statement. There ’ s a mistake on it. I also need to withdraw some money some the ATM.
I don't mind at all.
By credit card.
I didn't know you knew Frank.
Well. I guess I can ask around to see if anyone's got a room or apartment available.
I would keep it because you would be breaking our contract.
Are you planning on studying abroad?
Yes, so I had to wait three hours for the next one. I didn't get home till four in the morning, and when I got home I realized I'd left my house keys in my hotel in Bangkok.
What else can I get for you?
Are you a doctor?
Well. This must save lots of employees from worrying about how to write a salary increase letter. You know how tough it is. Do all the employees receive the same pay increase annually?
I hope not. I think they would be a threat to those of us that lived on the Earth.
By bus, of course.
First of all, you should open a Fund Account with us, just fill in this form. We'll need to see some ID and your Cash Card.
Good.That is the kind of man we are looking for.By the way, do you like traveling? Our sales representatives need to travel a lot.
I'm sure you are.
And vegetables with porridge.
True? The food is terrible.
Maybe you should think about getting a round helmet ; they're better.
You'll need to fill in this application form and there is a charge of 30 US dollars for this.
It's pretty, isn't it? It's made of pure silk and it's on sale.
Who has a crush?
You are so pessimistic! The Olympics is a great opportunity for athletes to demonstrate their speed, skill, agility and strength. Most people hope to see someone from their country win, but I think that they are just happy to see good performances by any athlete.
You can look around our new workshops and the automatic machines.
Then, when do you plan to get married?
What do you want, a single or a double one?
What was your major at university?
Are they going to pay you for the damages?
You ’ re okay with me calling someone?
I can't afford to move right now.
I---I don ’ t feel like saying it
Nice. Hey, I like the layout of this page...
Oh. I see. But I have done it.
She's pretty easy to get along with. She listens to her employees and treats everyone equally.
It's Monday, October 27. Speaking of dates, when are you leaving?
That sounds reasonable. What about the five-day flying journey? How much is that?
Left the next junction. Ok.
Then what else should I put into my resume?
Critics are not very happy with the movies that you ’ Ve made recently. Does that bother you?
How long will it take to find out if they are going to accept the offer?
Where can I find information on this subject?
I ’ m just coming for that.
What are you talking about? What did I do?
Here you go. Anything else?
We will have an internal discussion and then we will contact to inform you of our decision on whether we continue with you or not.
We will fine you if you damage it.
You see... money doesn't equal happiness, but it takes away a lot of responsibilities.
I'm an athlete for the Olympic Games here.
I know, darling. But I do have a lot of work to do, hope you can understand me.
Really? Well, I hate to say this, but I'm not surprised.
I'm afraid all the big tables are taken.
Hello, Tony. Fancy meeting you here. How are things going with you?
Thank you. This one looks nice. Is it near the university?
Personnel. May I help you?
I see. You are in luck this month because all of our models are on sale! it is a perfect time to buy a new car since It’s the end of the year.
OK. I close my mouth.
Don't worry. You'll do better next time.
How many did you say, sir?
Don't ask me. I don't wanna be involved in your quarrel.
Sure, I love curry. Who else is coming?
How do your experiences benefit our company?
Is there someone I can talk to about a payment question?
Well, sir, I was just hoping that I might be able to take some unpaid leave this year.
Five hundred and thirty yuan altogether including charges for service.
Oh, that relationship is history. Malia hooked up with a guy she met on holiday.
That's really all I have to do?
Just for fun, not for showing. What do you worry about?
I'm going to give you a ticket.
Why are there still so many people overweight despite the current fitness craze?
Do you think they ’ ll get back together?
You can double check with the housekeeping department, but I am pretty sure all of the machines will need new cartridges. Last time when we made our order to the supplier, the quantity was also especially high. They are used to receiving such bulk orders from us. As long as we give them a heads up a couple days in advance, they can usually fill the order.
Certainly. What kind of novel did you have in mind?
Well, we could probably get started with a strategy meeting tomorrow morning at 8: 00.
Yes. Here is your boarding pass.
Yes. It will keep your face from getting dry and make your skin soft.
I ’ Ve already got your certificate for sick-leave. How do you feel today?
Then, what's your usual commission rate for your agents?
How do you like waltz?
Dave then? Dave is a spy for WebTracker? You can't be serious.
Thank you for coming tonight, Mrs. Webber. As a teacher, it's great seeing the kid's parents assist our parent-teacher conference night.
I had my first cigarette when I was 17.
You owe $ 24.50.
You wanna shoot some hoops?
You can go and ask your father.
Yes. Here's my identification.
If I were on as many steroids as he was, I think I ’ d be powerful, too.
No, we haven't. And I'm not going to get any!
Yes, sir. What price range do you have in mind?
I guess I'll have to buy a new alarm clock.
That ’ a good idea. You are a fireman and it can be dangerous job.
Anyway, I'd like to change our room.
Yes. Do you offer any opportunities for further study?
Where ’ s yours at?
Sure. You can go to the front desk to ask for more help.
Well, tell me. What are they like?
The building is quite new and well constructed. I ’ m happy with the fittings too.
People went out and looted?
Good morning. I ’ m from the new york book review. Could I ask you some question about your latest book?
Ok, as John after Kennedy put it, let us never negotiate out of fear, but let us never fear to negotiate.
Besides the official holidays, our company offers a ten days paid holiday every year, which makes it possible for you to visit your parents. Any other questions?
Yes, that would be perfect.
Ten more minutes, mom. Please!
Yes, but I'm not feeling very better now. Actually I'm feeling even worse.
I hope so. Then I ’ ll be the happiest person in our office too!
Your lease will be up in three years.
Just joking, Tonia. I've got some wonderful clothes. Let's go and have a close look at your outfit.
Did you see the car before it hit you?
Well, where I grew up, we saw movies at a drive-in theater in our car with the whole family.
We cannot pay you unless you turn that form in every two weeks.
Sure, but the work you did was really exceptional! You definitely deserved it!
Don't you think all of the money goes to the ads and we have nothing to read.
Where is the bus?
Beg your pardon?
We've been on this bus for a while now.
A Bachelor is awarded to a student who successfully completes over 120 units, including general and specific requirements, for his or her undergraduate major and elective courses.
Well, I'm not one to gossip, as you know, but rumor has it that she sued her former boss for sexual harassment.
It's great! Unfortunately, we're going to spend a fortune doing everything up.
I like the sight and the sound. It worked on me like a magic when I was a child
How many diners will be in your group?
it reflects some of our difficulties in this ever-changing world.
I've been working too.
All right, Mr. Cook. I'll have Mr. Baker call you back as soon as he gets here.
I'm terribly sorry I can't go with you. Shall we find some other time?
that's good. Don't forget to design the format. An attractive format is as important as the content.
ok. Have a good day. Here's your passport and documents back.
Yes. Right over here.
Thanks a lot. I expect to see your name nominated pretty soon, too. You ’ Ve been doing some great work!
Never mind. There's an authentic tasting hotpot restaurant not far from the China World Trade Towers on Chang An Street. Have you been there?
Have you ever heard the ads say anything bad about their products?
Does the internet come up at all?
Well, okay. Then there is still Michael. But he's the boss ' pet after having the best sales record for three months in a row. It definitely won't be Michael.
Sure. No problem.
Is there any limit?
It's a twenty-minute bus ride.
Here's the bath.
How much were you supposed to write it for?
Oh, I see how this food can be really hard for you. I can sympathize with that. I stayed in Sichuan for a year. The food was difficult at the beginning. Every dish was so spicy. After a while though, I got used to the taste, and now I won't consider anything a real dish if it isn't spicy.
That looks great. Just one more thing-you need some high heels with those jeans. Do you want a pair with a plain pattern or ones with a leopard print on them?
Why am I always the last to know these things?
Why is she still single? She must have a face that would stop a clock.
Thank you for your coming.
That's right. The number forty-four doesn't stop here any more. Its stop is round the corner.
Mmmm... 2 years does seem like a long time. How about the interest if I save for 6 months?
What kind of cuisine do you have?
Steve, when are you going back to America?
It's DG193445782100. Can you find it?
Because its trunk is not thick enough to be like a thousand-year-old tree.
That's great. I'll pick you up at eight.
I'm sorry, I haven't decided yet. Do you mind giving me a couple of minutes?
But we ’ Ve only been on the road for ten minutes.
So your stomach is the one that actually gets a lot of work-out.
All right. But you have to clean up everything it messes up.
Yes. In 1996 I received my Bachelor of Science degree from Hebes University, and in 2001 I received my MBA degree from Peking University.
Hello, yes, can I do Bank-Insurance Link business here?
Why do you want to be a tour guide?
Yes. Now what other problems do you have?
How do you feel about that restaurant?
I'm a student.
I must be there no later than 9:00.
I matched the description of a bank robber they were looking for.
Sure, just a minute. Are you an artist, sir?
It's time for desserts! Are you still hungry?
I like this kind of weather.
Just that in effect, a basic Letter of Credit is a financial contract between the bank, the bank's customer, and the beneficiary, and this contract involves the transfer of goods or services against funds.
Dad, you keep talking about family in New Zealand. Who are they?
Good idea. I think you ’ ll like it if you give it a chance.
Is English acceptable for you?
She told me that even when I become a senior engineer, I'll have to work with the assistant engineers as a team.
Now, move the couch around and turn it upside down.
Ok, I will get you another one.
I'm not sure I understand what you mean.
Yes, I've already done that, and they said they'd look for it. But we're leaving soon and I need my visa and identity cards badly.
I am consistently impressed by scientists.
A Mac it is. I'll take one home with me.
That ’ s pretty cheap for out here.
Alright. Good. I see you've already taken six credits of your breadth requirements.You have one botany class and one chemistry class. And political science.So that's nine credits. Did you take English Composition 201?
Did you bring your certificate for nursing?
Oh, that's a picture of me on our fourth day of travelling. I'm standing next to a famous foundation in the centre of the city.
Give me a chance to explain. I was no my way and I had an accident.
Well, I'm afraid there is. I have some bad news for you about the results of the forensic tests... there won't be any results.
Do you know the minimum balance you ’ re required to keep?
Fine, thanks. I am Wang Lin.
It's your turn now, Helen.
Yes, and I am very satisfied with it.
I swear I will never shop at a street market in China. It's a terrible place full of excellent profiteers! You have to keep an eye whenever it comes to paying for something.
I have a large family. I have three older sisters, my twin sister, a younger brother, and parents.
I feel so tired.
Tell me, please.
Turn on the TV for what?
I hope it hasn't left without me.
Do you think you will want to continue working here even after you ’ Ve had a child?
Would she like a laptop?
I ’ m sorry I kept you waiting.
I'm glad you say so. You dance beautifully too. It's lucky that I got you as a partner.
OK. Thanks a lot.
Make it after the present fashion, please.What if it does not fit?
That's good. Is there anything else?
It tells me how hard your heart pumps blood and how much your arteries relax at rest.
In addition to clothes we need to think about other basics, OK?
Yes, I want to see it.
Margaret, I'd like to follow up with the arrangements for our company retreat, to take place next month. We need to book the venue, make arrangements for speakers and door prizes, and set up all the activities and accommodations. Also, very important, we need to determine which of our staff will be eligible and will be available to go. We've got to get a head count in order to make reservations.
My pleasure. But I'm afraid I'm not much of a dancer, and I suppose you dance often.
Thank you. W hat's your occupation, Mr. Smith?
Yoga? It sounds interesting.
Do you have any complaints?
The exhibits are really special. I enjoy the paintings very much.
Thank you. Can I open the packages to check the color and style?
Perhaps you ’ Ve been working too hard. You do have a high-pressure job.
That's understandable. Well, rather than comparing my salary with someone else's, perhaps we could talk about my job performance. Surely you've noticed the extra hours I've put in recently?
I agree. I heard that in the western countries, almost everyone likes coffee. Is that true?
Do you own your own darkroom?
In what ways?
Is it overweight?
How many hours would I work a day and what's the pay?
12,000 a year, but you can't get visitors to live in.
What're the teams?
Is it true that you have a heavy work schedule?
You have an unusual accent, Mr. Robbins. Where are you from originally? If you don ’ t mind me asking.
hello! How are you.
Yes, some exercise is necessary for us.
Sorry. You'd better get off for taking another taxi.
Can you drop me off here?
Hello, let me introduce myself. I'm your new neighbor. My name is Andy.
That's not fair. We had fun. Give me a second chance. Can we meet tomorrow night for drinks at the pub?
Just some fried rice please.
By the way, a party will be held for new neighbors the day after tomorrow. I hope I can see you there.
Sorry, but she ’ s out.
Yes, I think so. The rainy season will be over soon.
I'm not sure, I feel hot and cold.
What ’ s the postage on this letter to hongkong, please?
Maybe next week.
Pardon me. Could you please pass me the tissue?
What is your price?
What went down?
Sure. Please write down your name and your phone number.
Well, you know I have some students studying for their master's degree. One of them tried to give me a gift that kinda made me uneasy.
Well, now we should turn back a few kilometres.
Where is it?
You'll see. Oh, yeah, you'll see.
Well, I haven't thought much about this. I think it's too early to tell. What is the most important for me now is to do the best possible job for the company and learn and develop my skills as much as possible. If the company is happy with my work, then, I think I would like to consider other positions in the company.
Which class are you working on right now?
I ’ m moving to a new home.
alright. Hmm, this movie is a rerun... I don't know how many times I've seen this show... Commercial again... and a replay of the talk show... oh no, this show is terrible, you don't wanna watch it.
Here you are, a thousand Yuan and my ID.
Yeah! It’s a 24 hour market! I had bought some RIB earlier at a low asking price but last night it appreciated drastically so I made a split second decision and sold all my RIB at an amazing bid! I ’
Thank you for taking care of it so quickly.
I'll drink to that. Thanks for making this a night worth remembering.
You're welcome. Did you have a good time on this vacation?
If ever you ’ re in Chicago, please do look me up.
Well, it's really none of your business.
Yes, we did. Just this morning.
I ’ ll be sure and do that. I also need to pick out the right suit, shirt, and tie for this interview.
How far is it from our hotel?
Me too. She is so young and talented. She is not only a singer but also a great composer herself.
No, I am afraid the apartment isn ’ t permitted.
When the result comes out, I will tell you about it. Remember, never be afraid or be too tired.
Yes, I have studied in an English training program and a computer training program since I graduated from university. I am currently studying Finance at a training school.
When are you going on vacation?
Oh, no, I'm fine.My refrigerator is piled up with food.But if it's not too much trouble for you. I'd like something to read.
Hey, what's wrong with the TV?
What's the news?
Is it your first time to make a deposit here?
The European market is not familiar with your products. You have competitors from Japan and other continental countries. At the beginning of our campaign, there is sales resistance to overcome, we must send out salesmen to do a lot of traveling and spend a considerable amount of money on advertising in news - papers and TV programs. A 10 % commission will not leave us much.
You are welcome! Have a nice flight.
It says the book is on the shelf, but I didn ’ t find it there.
So, what are you going to do?
Why? It's in mint condition!
Well, basically if your heart stops pumping blood, or your lungs stop pumping air, then we need to get them going again! That ’ s when we have to apply this procedure. Let ’ s begin! I need a volunteer.
would you recommend going there for a few days?
No. She is actually very intelligent and well behaved.
How are they proportioned?
Mom, what are we going to make tonight?
Thank you for meeting me here.
So funny. By stealing, I forgot all my sorrows and pressure from work.
Good-bye, sir
Let me check. Hold on, please... Yes, that's fine. Smoking or nonsmoking area?
How much are you withdrawing today?
But it's a waste of money. You won't really run in them! You don't need such a shoe to use exercise machines. It's just a waste of money.
Shall we bring our own bottle of wine to save some money?
I went sky-diving!
This is Doris. Who's calling please?
The most useful method is to make plans and set priorities. It helps me to manage time well and get the most important things done at the first place.
OK, pick up some cured meats to go with the wine. Maybe a pound of polish sausages, ham, liverwurst, salami and any other cold cuts that are on sale. I think I saw a promotion for pastrami. Also get some cole slaw and a jar of olives.
Here you are. Taste the French fries.
Really? It looks so nice.
You ’ re in America now, my British friend. We just call it football.
How many do you intend to order for our shirts?
Generally speaking, Mark's personality is much more agreeable than Jones
I want to check out these books.
Hello, is this Professor Clark?
Is your boss named Vic? Your pager says, This is Vic. Here I come!
15th of April, 1969.
I was thinking of taking off from September first until the thirtieth. Would you be okay with that?
yes, it helps everyone to understand what we're doing from different perspectives.
That's OK! We'll take you to have a tour. Please follow me.
I guess you are right. Maybe I just wish the weather could be a little more predictable.
I accidentally knocked it off the table and it broke. I'm really sorry.
I could go to the movies on Friday night instead. Would that be better?
I want to buy some specialties. Can you recommend me some?
I ’ m so sorry to call you on such short notice, but something ’ s come up.
I have no idea where to find one.
No, I know how to control my temper.
What year is it?
Honey, have you all packed?
Hah, hah! See? I guessed right. You weren't watching the road at all.
What do you want to see particularly?
Take me to this address, please.
One moment, please. I have to check if there are rooms available. I'm sorry, ladies. We have only two double rooms available but they are on different floors. Would you mind that?
There is something wrong with this dish.
Well, we have some new Barbie dolls.
Go on your vacation with Mark and when you come back, why don't you just move in with him as well!
Let's get down to business.
Certainly sir, would you like some rice or noodles with that?
How about the podium?
What are the side effects of that drug?
Mike's really angry.
We waste a vacation.
Hi. I just lost my purse when I was shopping on the street. I guess somebody stole it from me.
Okay. ( Reads the lease ) So, according to the lease, I ’ ll deposit one month ’ s rent as a security deposit, and I have to pay the first month ’ s rent in advance. I understand that I ’ ll get the security deposit back when I move out if the apartment does not need any costly repairs.
I feel he's like a talking machine.
I was wondering if you could help me with something.
Actually, I learn many things from it. I find that I am a quick learner in new things.
You were right. It was from a headhunter. She wouldn't tell me anything without a contract.
You can copy as much as you ’ d like.
No, no, no, not at all.It ' s just that I've been looking forward to meeting you.
It's really fantastic. The hero, Super Warrior, is so brave that he can defeat any enemies he meets. He runs through tunnels, swims under water, and climbs over bridges. It's really exciting!
No. I am Canadian. Are you Chinese?
What date is today?
Daddy, are you going to the park with us this weekend?
Cool! But isn't that a hot air popcorn popper?
I ' m sorry sir, but we ran out of chicken. May I suggest our delicious beef burritos or cheese quesadillas? Both include a side of guacamole and jalapenos.
yeah, it's lovely, but to be frank, it's not the most practical. You don't have many formal events in your calendar, do you?
Fine, I'll be expecting you.
What section would you like to work in if you enter this company?
I can't wait to see the expression on her face when we dump her.
She said she wants one of those automatic foot massagers. I think they sell them at Sears.
Well, known, Jim, I'm... I'm pretty much in favour of your computers, I think computers teach kids to think, because they require logical thoughts.
Did you see the final of the men ’ s 100 metres? It was very exciting. One competitor made two false starts.
Have you got everything ready?
Did I mention she's good at cutting hair too?
Someone told joe off.
Who's better at chess, Bill or Fred?
Yeah. The autumn is marvelous here.
Well, I'm not working on the weekend, so we could grab some beer, ice and our fishing rods, and head out to the river.
OK, what would you like?
You should ’ Ve known already.
Wonderful! A perfect piece of bread!
it was about 75 years old. There were a few repairs that needed doing, but it didn ’ t take a lot of money or time.
You're right. I think it's going to rain later.
The computer is showing that all bills have been mailed.
Oh, right. I remember. There you are. Hope you don ’ t have as many problems as I had!
Have a great time tomorrow night.
Yes. I'd delighted if you did.
Sounds cool! But that is not what a lady should do. People are easy to lose head in a night club and being drunk.
Helen, you must be excited at going to America to study.
No, that gets it for now, thank you.
Once a computer is available, I will let you know.
No, I didn't. I'm sorry. It won't happen again.
We did a survey on your job performance.
I'll get used to not seeing my parents.
Bother the flies!
OK, I can do that.
look at the girls in the street. They all have bunch of flowers.Is it Valentine's Day?
It’s been a long time since I ’ Ve had to look for work and put a resume together.
Cool. Your guitar skills are very impressive. How did you learn to play like that?
Thank you, sir. We look forward to welcoming you.
I tend to spend too much time making sure the customer is satisfied. However, I began setting time-limits for myself.
When will the plane reach Hong Kong for the morning flight?
Stephanie! Did you just get to school? But you were up and about when I left the dorm this morning! That was about an hour and a half ago. This happens all the time! Why do you always take so long
Well feel free to ask me anything, and I ’ ll try to fill in the details.
All right. We'll have some seafood and vegetables.
About four years now.
My boy. I give you my sympathy to you. However, this meeting is said to be extremely important, so we have to attend it.
Not a chance.
Yes, there is one at 8: 30 a. m. That arrives at 11:35 a. m.
That's good. It's most thoughtful of you to do this, Miss Wood.
Yeah, it's very funny. Have you ever watched it before?
For the first drive, put the golf ball on the tee, and push the tee into the ground.
Not very big. There are five of us — grandmother, father, mother, sister and I.
Which is your favorite in this ten?
No, sorry. I don't know.
Not this Taiwanese girl. We don't like to get suntans.
Yes, he ’ s a millionaire in Houston now.
How about the terms concerning packing?
This street used to have few stores. But now, you can see supermarkets, shopping malls and department stores everywhere.
Here ’ s 30 yuan.
How gross! I can ’ t handle people like that. Does he at least give you a hand around the house?
When can I get the final decision?
It will be fun. And besides, you'll be in the best company.
You can e-mail your application materials for application to the websites of job agencies for enrollment in their database.
Please explain why you are interested in leaving your current position and please elaborate on your technical skills.
The owners might not be aware of everything wrong with the house. Some things are hidden, but might still be a problem for you in the future.
I love the bamboo flooring and granite countertops.
We're located at 132 West Street.
Yes. I've never been here before.
Okay, what can I get you?
Oh, I'm so sorry to hear that. Have you seen a doctor or taken any medicines?
We ’ re going to have to do an investigation.
I think there is nothing.
I'm the general manager of the Far-East Industry Corporation.
A couple of times.
Actually, our new math teacher is a good person. He just can't find an appropriate way to teach us.
What should be put in my education background?
You need to eat healthy foods and avoid unhealthy foods.
Wonderful. I ’ m so excited.
I think I will get my food from Panda Express, too.
The salmon is good toady, it's very fresh.
It was okay.
My name is Tom Smith.
I got hungry and bought some chips.
Not at all! That explains everything!
Good afternoon, Mary. How's business?
Yes, sir. Can I help you?
I don't like anything about it.
Very few, unfortunately.
Could you do something to advance your time of shipment?
thanks. I better get back to my work before my boss yells at me again!
Here's a form to get you started.
But I don't even know what to study.
No, they use litter boxes or go outside by themselves.Thev ' re so smart.
But I don't know what I would do.
Unfortunately, not. You see, because they are not registered, they can be bought and sold by anyone. They also can be cashed on maturity in any nationwide financial institution.
Do I look more mature in the highheel shoes?
No, by that time, I was sick of sightseeing. I had had enough of art galleries, cathedrals, fountains, statues, and palaces!
Well, I got all the point. All the decision will be made since I get the approval from my supervisor.
Ok, great, should i bring anything?
Certainly. No one can match us as far as speed is concerned.
I have enough time. I just can ’ t seem to fall asleep and stay asleep.
I am very happy, too. It was a big game and I won.
I feel very nervous about it.
He has lost his job, and his wife died from cancer not long before.
I think there's more you need to do.
Seventy to sixty-seven.
Let me count. Ok, it works out for my schedule. Thanks a lot!
Of course. I will write a report about this post-trip, and then you'd better type it at the moment, OK?
You'll know our products better after this visit.
They're in awe of her. After they saw how she crushed WebTracker... but I guess you know all about that.
It wouldn't be good if it got cold this weekend.
Thanks for the sweet words.
Gosh! I can see the flames!
I would trade you if I could but I don't think I'd be a very convincing macho A.
It was a great game.
I've been here for 3 years, and I haven't had a raise in all that time. If you like my work, it should be reflected in my pay, and I feel it isn't.
Hello, Julia? I can't hear you clearly. I'm afraid the line is out of order. Okay, B, listen! How about I hang up now and call you back later?
When does the flight depart?
I watched Buddha buyer go up to $ 315. I waited until the very last minute and then I jumped in at $ 325! I sniped him!
No. The front seat folds down all the way so there's just enough space for the skis...
Some people pile on their agonise and try to seek other ’ s sympathy by telling them how miserable they are.
What ’ s her name?
yes, it's my girlfriend's birthday today and she loves chocolate.
That's not the end. They were so good that they convinced a bystander to help them lift the motorcycle and put it in the truck.
Which direction should I take?
Not really. I plan to bring some cash and withdraw money at the ATM in Japan.
Yes. I had a bad traffic accident.Look, my car looks like a squashed coke can.
I have been a production manager.
Mr. Thomas will be here very soon. In the meantime, may I ask all of you to sign in so that I can issue your passes?
How soon do you want it?
Yes, I've looked everywhere in my room and I can ’ t find it.
No! It's a perfect fit!
Let me check. It's 3.80 m.
Don ’ t you think you would miss having other people around?
I don't know what to say. This can't be happening. Here's the obituary.
Congratulations. How is your wife doing?
Whoa wait a minute! Isn ’ t that a bit too much? I mean, how much is all of this going to cost!
What kind of keys?
Hi, Mary. Lily wanted me to buy her some things for the party.
Fine. And the charge is $ 100.
Is there any more vodka in that bottle?
Yes, it not only includes the nation's historical and cultural background, but also contains the nation's view of life way of life and way of thinking.
What did you take as your major in college?
That ’ s absurd. I know some junior high kids who can stay out later than that.
I have received an oral English training and I can communicate with others fluently.
I'm not sure of what packages you offer.
Under which category do you intend to apply?
What department did you study in?
Oh, Henry, I haven't seen you for ages. Come in. Let me take your coat. How are you getting along?
Do you think this is a good idea?
I agree. I ’ ll look in the paper.
if we don't hurry up, we'll miss the show. Should we take the bus?
Please point out the painful place with your finger. Is there any relation between the pain and the weather?
I read it, but I couldn't understand it.Would you come to my room and tell me how to use them?
Retirement age is still 65, but I think more and more people are retiring earlier, I think Bob's in upper fifties already, he just looks pretty young.
No, ties. And there's a tie store. Let's go!
I think it is very necessary for us. I wonder whether I am on holiday with payment every year.
I'd prefer the pool.
How about next week?
It's a butterfly - everyone in her family has one.
You're welcome. I hope you'll be more comfortable in your new room.
Yes, I want to restate one more time the importance of reinventing our company's image to appeal to different customer bases. I want to end with a true story that has to do exactly with what we've been talking about today...
Yeah. I'm lucky to be his wife.
Yes. It is one of the most harmful computer viruses in the world. People say it will break out again om Valentines ' Day this year.
Could I ask the company for the housing?
This vegetarians thing is so sus.
Leo! I wanted to tell you thanks for all your hard work on the budget. We ’ re having a get-together after work tonight at Carl ’ s Karaoke Club to celebrate having finished it. We ’ d love to see
Right, I will exchange for you now. Please sign the exchange form giving the name and telephone.
my husband's parents flew out to meet my family when we got married in my hometown, so that was great. Some people spend ridiculous amounts of money on extravagant wedding receptions, but we agreed t
Here are the plans for the new finished goods warehouse. Do you have any thoughts or comments?
Excuse me. What's the time difference between Beijing and San Francisco?
What time do you want me there?
No, the one next to it.
Certainly. Mr. Nelson can not take your call at the moment because he is away. He stepped out of the office for the whole afternoon and is not expected back until tomorrow morning. His schedule is very unpredictable at times, so the best way to reach him is to first make an appointment by email or text messaging.
Excuse me. Do you mind if I ask some things about work for this company?
morning, Mr. Emory. I was hoping to set up an appointment with you for sometime this week.
I am sorry to have kept all of you waiting. I was delayed by something urgent.
Would you like to have dinner with me at King Hotel at 7pm?
I'm sorry, but everything is taken.
That just goes to show that America is finally turning over a new leaf.
Should we invite the whole committee or should we just have the sub-committee there?
Right. Cool! Let's go!
It could be the battery. Let me Check it.
Where are DAK headquarters?
Oh my god! It's 10:00 pm. I have to go.
I think perhaps the news stories in it are truthful and accurate. It also has a special page about the stock market ; maybe this is the real reason for its popularity. Many people are now speculating in the stock market.
Hello. Do you have anything for a little girl?
Yes. We're out of milk.
Did you enjoy your weekend at the highland hotel? I heard It’s and excellent place to stay and has good facilities.
Ah... I see.
Is this the Central Park to East Market bus?
How was school today?
Yeah. That can be a good hobby.
Yes. I feel terrible. I have been coughing for the whole morning.
I think I'm going to go home.
That's more or less the idea, but try something that sounds more friendly.
Hello, Mr David Richton, this is Min Wang calling from network, i am calling about the reporter position you advertised on the internet.
See? That wasn't so bad.
Would you pour me some of that tea, please?
see you then!
Do you take credit cards?
I'm afraid we have to wait for the next bus.
There are 3 secretarial categories here. One is receptionist, one is junior secretary, and the other is senior secretary.
Of course, sir, I'll have a look in the back.
Sina, 21st Century Talent Net, and a few others.
I'm sure you're right. I just dread the idea of making a new suit every year.
Yes, but you might have told me before.
That will make your eyes seem bigger.
This silver vase is a good ornament for the living room.
He is doing OK, but he pretends he is doing much better by telling lies.
My son has really taken it out of me. He never keeps out of mischief.
Well, actually, I'm not free today. Do you have anything urgent?
What are you reading? You've had your nose buried in that book since last night.
It's OK, so I send you this.
Yes, of course, Ms Chan.
Larry drives a truck. He drives all over the country. We hardly ever seen him.
No. I've never been there.
But journalism, it is a very different profession from administration.You know a lot about administration.Why don't you choose to work for a company looking for managers?
Well, I ‘ d certainly come and visit you. It would be great to take a working holiday on a farm. I ’ d love to get away from hustle and bustle of the city for a while.
No, I don't know where the bookstore is.
Well, do you know where the post office is?
Awesome. Was someone killed there?
I'm nervous. I have to make a big presentation in the meeting.
Glad to meet you, Mr. White.
I was worried where you were.
I am sorry to hear that. Why do you want to quit?
That's smart these days with all the news on skin cancer. Hey, there's everybody! We made it!
Good, I'm leaving my room in about one minute.
Because it is dangerous to get out of the car or bus. You can just imagine how fierce the wild animals can be.
Yes. Are you going to be taking a class from him?
Not bad at all.
Yeah, I'm glad that we didn't have to wait long. I'm starving!
I ’ m sorry. Ms. Murphy. I ’ ll re-work it. Can I give it back to you this afternoon?
No, that's it. Thanks. I really appreciate it.
I agree. I prefer oils too. I collect landscapes, but I only have a small collection. You have a small collection of abstract art, don ’ t you?
But I'm already in a lot of trouble with my boss.
OK! Would you like to recommend some for our reference?
Here's the restaurant we're meeting the Smiths at.
Yes, can I see a few T-shirts, Please?
will there be a lot of people there?
You can take an antihistamine.
This is my first tourism. I don't know what should be declared.
We have the orientation this afternoon.
Ok, I ’ Ve done that.
I am so worried about this English contest. I have butterflies in my stomach now!
Is the international driving licence fine?
Let's go to the inquiry desk first to check whether anyone has got it and turned it in.
David, do you think which team will get the champion tonight?
Let me get the keys and we ’ ll go to look at it.
If you can choose, will you marry a foreigner or a Chinese?
You should have more money then.
and how about Internet access?
Do you see them a lot?
What kind of people do you find difficult to work with?
Can't you see a notice on the bench?
Have you heard we'll have a pay rise?
Are there any parking lots for the tenants?
I really like it here.
Look, there's a chessboard. Those two men have already finished playing.
Yeah, you are my good helper, Steven.
So what did you think about the movie?
And I had a dessert - that's another £ 3.50. And you had coffee which is £ 2.
Last week I saw Brain kissing you on the cheek.
If I tell you., you must be completely taken aback.
It seems too short.
haven't you heard? Brown is the new black.
Do you have the phone number? I need to call for registration.
"No, just a small one.Next Let's sing "" Happy Birthday "" to Mary."
There is a special appetizer menu right here in the center of the table.
Management is going through a big turnover these days. With Bill's retirement, and department realignment, we have lost about 1/3 of our managerial staff. They've been dropping like flies...
can't bear it, right? I've been there before. I'll feel comfortable if no one calls me or sends me text messages, like there is something missing.
No, I'm afraid I don't. Is it possible for me to see him now?
What do you mean? I bought this computer just three years ago!
Professor, I am Kalina from your morning literature class.
Could you tell me your name, sir, please?
Yeah, I really wanted that Chanel bag, too. But just in case you should bid low.
No, thanks. Please bring us the bill.
the prices are clearly marked on the back of each mask. Would you like me to get one down for you to look at?
OK, sir. How many people are there in your party?
That's good. Maybe you'll get promoted.
What's happening in your life?
That ’ s a hefty amount. But that should have no problem at all. You should be aware that there is a ten-percent service charge, though.
Are you sure you can do well this year?
I'd prefer to go abroad, if possible.
How could he have such an ill intention? I think your father can see that through.
Yes. I'd like a crab cocktail.
Just calm down, Sir. OK, when do you think you lost it?
Personally, I'm not for it. I feel it's bad for kids to watch.
Not bad. How about you, John?
Well, it may take some time. Mr. Emory ’ s at a meeting at the moment. It would probably be more comfortable over there.
Yeah. You know driving is boring. TV can get me out of the fatigue of driving.
You can ask Frank and Cathy to help you.
After the shower, step into the washroom with birch switches, dip them in the warm water and briskly whisk them over your skin.
I need to get on the Internet.
What case do you have against the police?
Is she just working temporarily? What are they going to do when Maggie comes back from leave.
It seems they've been out of luck since the beginning of the event. Their shots hit the woodwork as many as six times. Oh. my goodness! I'm afraid the team is under a spell.
Could I speak to Mr. Wu, please?
I apologize for invading your privacy.
How much would you like to spend?
I liked it. I didn ’ t think his works were masterpieces, but the certainly weren ’ t uninspiring, in my opinion.
Well, you can have a look at our skirts hanging there.
That ’ s right. Sending it by airmail will cost twelve dollars and sending it by surface mail will cost eight dollars.
don't worry.You won't be sitting there by yourself.
Why, yes, it is. Would you like to get a look inside the apartment?
Daddy, don't mention it.
This small town has many serious problems.
Do you like shopping?
I knew we'd find the right pan sooner or later. How would you like to pay?
You need to fill out this form, please.
How do I make sure I am not buying a junk?
Great. I ’ m looking forward to it.
It's not raining, darling. The bench isn't wet.
Yes, but it's blurred and a little dark.
Everything's going very well. The first phase of the project was finished three days ahead of schedule. We're on target to complete phase two by the beginning of week 40.
I ’ m speaking French. Don ’ t you know anything?
Just as Forrest?
Where is your birthplace?
Absolutely! It says there is water on Mars buried beneath the surface. It's just a matter of how deep it is.
Yes, I ’ Ve come to inquire about a 6,000- dollar remittance from California. Has it arrived?
She passed out in class. Seems she hadn't eaten anything in days.
It's 150 RIB for the service.
How about your communication skills?
To be honest, I haven't really done much research.
I think the only thing is toner. Try to see if they can deliver it before the end of business day tomorrow. We should really try to do better about waiting until the last minute to fill orders that are usually made on a monthly basis. Anyhow, see what you can do to expedite the order this time.
On the contrary, I think he's very serious.
Your house is very old. Does it need redecorating?
You must feel really worried right now. But you know your dad is a fighter.
My uncle passed away last night.
Boy, this sure doesn't help us much. It could be anybody. How about his cloth? What was he wearing?
I said that, didn't I? But I just don't know what to do with it.
Study study study! I want to learn a lot.
Really? Well, thanks for saying so.
Exhaust fumes from vehicles cause a great deal of damage to the environment.
Can you find last month ’ s report for me, please?
I finished them in no time.
I am thinking about inviting you to a dinner. When would you have time? And what kind of food do you fancy?
I haven't met you at the gym for a long time.
Great. One last question. Where is your jazz section?
All the routine work really browns me off.
My wages are six hundred dollars a week. But I find a part-time job to supplement my income.
Maybe tonight. I don't know. I don't know how to tell her.
Oh, there is a car exhibition tomorrow afternoon. I have two tickets.Would you like to go there with me?
Well, there's nothing much wrong with you. You're under too much pressure.
But I hear that the card is free.
Here you are, sir.
No, that's quite out of the question.
I'll have to write you a ticket.
I don't't think it would make sense if we were the only beings in this whole world. The world is just far too big for that.
You can have Saturdays and Sundays off. In addition, you may have a paid month vacation every year. But when it is necessary, we do expect you to work overtime. Does it suit you?
Oh yes, I...
Jenny, you should go to bed now.
I would love to rent out your apartment.
True, but English is harder than most. It's a crazy language.
ok. Thanks for your support.
No, he has two daughters as well. His wife and daughters are visiting her parents. So I won't see them.
I wish I had access to the public library.
Next week, so I thought it was better to get this all sorted out as soon as possible.
A pipe burst in my wall.
He must have been in bad company, or he wouldn ’ t be off the beans.
By the way, can I open a checking account too?
Yeah. But why don ’ t you come by your office tomorrow to sign the lease?
Yes, I'm checking out.
The Chinese rice pudding. Your father loves it, too. You wanna try?
Yes, Mr. Foster, if you would please be seated over in the waiting area, our hostess will be with you in a moment.
That was great. Thanks for taking me driving.
I apologize again for the cockroaches, sir. I hope you have a nice trip home.
That ’ s fine with me. How much time are we going to have to work on this?
First, they'll say I have a lot of energy and enthusiasm. I really enjoy working with people. Secondly, they'll say I had great customer service skills. I put the customer first. And thirdly, they'll say that I know the law. I put a lot of effort into my education as a paralegal and take it seriously.
Why can ’ t I have it back?
All of my friends are going out to the lake tonight and I'm going too!
No. I'm just killing time.
When did you graduate?
Why not? They are very fun and exiting.
Yes. My Manager sent me in, there's a problem with the shipping time. It's been delayed quite significantly and my manager is unwilling to accept it.
I prefer my margarita on the rocks, please.
She's ten.
At a time like this, what she needs is a pat on the back rather than a blame.
Can we have dinner together sometime this weekend?
I guess not, They haven't officially introduced her to the whole staff yet, she barely started yesterday.
It's my pleasure. We have single rooms, double rooms, suites and luxury suites, ect. Well, here is an introduction to our hotel.
No, I don't have any hobbies. How about you?
Do you know how many people chew gum everyday?
Can you give me a discount?
The only thing I can do now is waiting for another chance.
Yes I have. I ’ Ve been there three times in the past year.
Do you know Chinese better now?
I'm a TV announcer. Don't you recognize me? I do the weather report on KNT!
Sorry, stewardess. Where shall I put my bags?
In a word, you should keep decent manners in the interview.
Could you give me some advice on books for killing time on the train?
It's no big deal. Thank you.
No, I don't want to.
Nah, don't be so fast. We like your work here, but this company is on hard times.and I can't be handing out raises for anyone.
No! My tour bus got a speeding ticket not ten minutes ago. Now my engine is on fire!
They are a nice middle-aged couple, just like us.
I'm sorry that you don't like it.
Then why are you wearing black shoes?
OK. I have a good pair of hiking boots. It should not be a big problem.
I need to come to grips with his death first. And I also need to prepare a eulogy in case I'm asked to speak tomorrow.
It is nice. Is it water proof?
The weather is good now, but I think it's suppose to rain this afternoon.
Two thousand should get me through the year.
I don't understand.
What's the difference?
Take the subway. It’s $ 1.50 per ride. You can buy a petrol card at the station.
I'll have a steak, medium rare.
Ok, did you find a new company?
I ’ m going to work.
Well, I think we could be saving more.
Yes. The scenery there is so breathtaking
What's the proposal?
You must have over 2 years'experience first.
One moment and I'll check.
They're absolutely right to get a replacement for 21.
You'll have to try for yourself some day.
Sure. If people are near in blood, they might pass on some genetic disease to the next generation.
What school did you come from?
We've been looking forward to your visit. It is a great pleasure for us to have you as our guest. It is always more convenient to discuss things face to face.
May, look, what's that in the cage?
Oh, yes. Arm, well, could you tell me your name, please?
Keep your back straight and look forward. Good. Do about 3 sets of 20.
She is our new project manager. She starts next week.
Some movie stars measure their worth by how many millions of dollars they make. Do you know how Jackie Chan measures his worth?
Yes. In that case, you should connect the operator and he will connect you with the one you want.
Yeah, you ’ re right. When it comes down to it, I can be pretty tacky.
It's all yours.
Take it easy. I'll like you know if anyone decides to cancel his reservation.
But it is far from downtown. Living here is very inconvenient.
You are welcome.
Sometimes that ’ s true, but not usually. Most feds are honest, hard-working professionals. It’s hard to keep highly trained people, so the pay and working conditions have to be attractive.
I know. I'll do it.
Can you offer me something a little cheaper?
Rather. I'm afraid I didn't do very well.
Way to control is really using common sense when you plan your eating habits.
I'm sure whatever you offer will be a fair amount for a person with my qualifications. Salary is not the most important factor to me. I'm looking for opportunity.
Here are all of them.
I just dropped in to say good-bye.
OK. where and when?
Sure. It’s quite far from here. Don ’ t worry, though. It’s not difficult to get there.
Sure, I like drinking tea at teahouses.
Wow! That's expensive.
Not so soon. It’s not my birthday today. Well, you ’ ll come, won ’ t you?
Sure. It's really very easy. First, mix together an egg, two teaspoons of salt, and two pounds of ground beef. Then, add two ounces of milk. Are you with me?
Isn ’ t it wonderful here? The kids are enjoying themselves in the swimming pool. I hope It’s safe.
Could you give me some advice on how to bring up my son properly?
You're kidding.
Do you play mahjong?
Do I have to pay extra charge for that?
Thank you and good luck.
Have you taken Accounting for Decision-Making and Control?
I saw an interesting program on TV last night. It was about elderly people.
It’s my mother. She ’ s fond of swimming. And the man beside her is my father.
Are you kidding me? I bought a same one last week. It's surprising that there is something we both like. Well, what do you think of these ceramic cups?
How nice to see you again!
I'd be happy if I got a rise.
It's a bit too expensive. We can get it for six yuan in the shop next here.
But if two employees are in love, they will be happy. Happy people are more productive. If they develop an intimate relation with each other, they are willing to share knowledge and experience. It can help to improve work efficiency.
Her tip will end up being $ 7.20 plus the bill of $ 36.00. The total will be $ 43.20.
Does the final count the most?
There's a lot of evidence that suggest it will, but I don't think it's going to happen any time soon.
What is the weather like today?
No, don't, I don't want to see you anymore. Don't ever call me again.
Great idea! I do it every so often.
Yeah, I can't cook anything until tomorrow, anyway. Let's go to the restaurant nearby. It's my treat.
You thing so?
Then I'd like to know your availability of the products and the terms of sales, such as mode of payment, delivery, discounts, etc.
How did you get on with your studies in university?
I'll only go if we can stop at the office-license to pick up something to drink for tonight.
That'll be 12 dollars and 95 cents, please.
We want to make this a trial order. If we can sell all the products in two months, we will pay for them ; if not, we will send them back to you.
Anything interesting in this city?
I want to go to china for sight-seeing. What do you think of it, Mum?
Is this good news or bad news?
I will check, please hold on. Sorry to say that flight is all booked up. Can I book you for the 3rd of September?
What time is it, please?
Hello? Mr. Bernie. My name is Lisa. I hope I ’ m not disturbing you. I just heard about your daughter. I wanted to call you and tell you how much we ’ ll miss her.
Thank you, Paul.
Have you made a reservation ladies?
Any way, in a word, panda is our friend.
I ’ m sorry you didn ’ t get accepted.
I think I ’ m polite, careful, relaxed and shy.
No, of course not. I ’ Ve got a lot to learn yet. In the meantime, I just want to be a good secretary and not step on anyone ’ s toes.
What? Are you serious? You'd defect to our archrival! ?
Do you find it hard to get ingredients for Chinese food?
I want to study abroad.
I think I can do a lot of good for our country.
Does Tom drink a lot?
I wouldn't call myself introverted. Sometimes I enjoy being by myself very much. But other times I like sharing activities with others too.
For what time, sir?
Maybe so, but I'm afraid that in case of damage or pilferage, the insurance company will refuse compensation on the ground of improper packing, or packing unsuitable for sea voyage.
Well, I've grown to like second-hand things. I wouldn't have gotten through university without them!
Do I often have to work overtime?
May I help you? Miss!
I don't know. I hope it's nothing serious.
I see that there are Olympic mascots in your car.
Pleased to meet you, Mr. Farley.
But if the company asks, what else can we do?
There was a serious disturbance in the street this morning.
No private vehicle, no limo. Got it. Where are you going?
How about your oral English?
I still have time to explore more of New York, but I need a place to secure my baggage.
A good suggestion for you.You need a holiday.
Well, he was very good to me.He helped me edit my essay for the scholarship contest.So I want to spend at least 75 dollars.
That's too bad. Do you have any foreign teachers?
No, I didn't, because it was pretty hard.
My mother and my wife are always holding different ideas.
Does it include the charge for drinks?
So, 1,2 and 3 are prime numbers, but 4 isn ’ t because 2 * 2 = 4.
Good evening. Could you let us have a double room?
Yes, I have a three-year-old son.
I'm not sure, but she probably won't remember if she has! She's very forgetful!
Well, that was an intelligent thing to do.
What a large child!
And let them ruin my life? Forget it!
But I think he can't hold a candle to you. I don't think he has ever popped the question.
Susan, good evening. Why are you so dressed up?
Daisy ’ s in hospital too. She god food poisoning last week. She thinks she got it from some bad seafood.
I think dimes and quarters will do.
You are pretending!
Great, let ’ s go!
It’s my acceptance letter from UCLA.
Sure, what's up?
So, what's your beef anyway, lady?
Doctor, I can't eat any foods because I had a sore throat.
OK, what style do you want?
So this is a family business.
May I ask who's the manager?
That is to say, love is blind.
You know Iden, I don ’ t know much about you. Where were you born?
Yes, we're hopping on the bandwagon and signing up for the union. Mostly people are pretty happy about it... I guess it depends on if you are in management or in the labor force.
Yes, I've heard about that. Isn't it where many investors pool their money together?
Don't use a hair spray. I want my hair set and dried.
I don't know. I've got mixed feelings about it. On the one hand, I really want to end it with him, but on the other hand, I don't want to be without him.
Which one is your favorite? Why?
That was my fault. I'm sorry.
Well, we drove through the valley on our way there in the morning. It was a magnificent sight!
Everybody attention. I would like to make sure you all know the process. The interview consists of three parts. One, all of the interviewees will answer the question there and lasts for maximum one hour. Two, we will take a 30 - minute ’ s break. After the break, we all come back to this office and I will announce the successful candidates for the 2nd round. In which, you have a small interview with your future manager.
there's free Internet access in the lobby.
Let's do something really nice for our family this Christmas.
It can be hard, and there are certain sacrifices you have to make.
Oh, that hurts.
Right. We should buy some yoghurt for kids.
And what would you like to have for the main course
May I have 5 tokens? Here is the money.
Sounds pretty good. Is it a tragedy?
It began with a shiver then I perspired a great deal.
We appreciate hearing that about you!
where are you from?
What class are you trying to take?
He ’ s been sick since he came back from Italy.
We can get both at the cafeteria.
Good afternoon, would you mind if I sat here?
I want a leather jacket.
"I was taking a walk in the park early this morning when suddenly I heard someone calling "" help "". I rushed over and saw a man beating a woman."
Your discount is already included. Normally we charge ¥ 400, but now we can give you a special price. This is our sale period.
I'm just curious. I think women are beautiful without this stuff.
to be honest, I wouldn't.
I ’ ll look for a ticket for you, too. Thanks!
Bob, look at this sentence. ' Healthy eating is not about strict nutrition philosophies, staying unrealistically thin, or depriving yourself of foods you love. ' It's interesting, isn't it?
It’s still too much. Can ’ t you make it any cheaper than that?
I have been studying English since junior high school. And I majored in English in college.
Excuse me, how can I fill in this blank? What does marital status mean?
When do you have time?
Yes, I'd like to close my account.
Cooke & Co. does a lot of placements in your field.
Would you like coffee or tea with your dessert?
Yes, the dance hall is nice with various styles of music.
Actually, more and more people have realized that violence on TV may lead to the increase of crime rates among teenagers.
Oh, I know. She is a famous woman and a focus of the newspaper now because of this thing.
Yes. For me, who can't hold much liquor, it's particularly agreeable. If only I had thechance to enjoy Chinese Matai at a leisured pace while sitting at a Western banquet!
Are you doing the football pools, Brian?
Fine, sir. We can accommodate you.
If next room is still noisy, could you give me a different room, please?
Sally, do you really need to go?
I'm glad you're satisfied with our work. I can assure you we've spared no effort and spent quite a sum of money in pushing the sales of your products.
No, I haven't sir.
Everybody's buying them.
Let ’ s try going with three hundred and thirty thousand dollars for a counter-offer.
No, not much. I got it on sale at the mall - 60 % off.
Then, it would be a little bit harder to find out your way. Do you remember the name of the street, or one or two landmarks?
I am coming to inquire about the information of the company. When was this company established?
I ’ Ve heard the whether here is ideal, just like spring most of the year
that's a good idea. I'll call them now. Thanks for your help!
No, sir. Where to?
I bought the movie. Would you like to come to my house and watch it?
I'd like to eat a hamburger and a bottle of coca-cola.
excuse me ; is this seat taken?
We can do that. It'll just cost you extra.
I thought you had been to Australia too.
Dad, can you help me?
I hope so. A good journey to you!
My warmest congratulations on your promotion!
Not so well. I've come down with the flu.
Great! I would like to see cute pandas, too.
That sounds like a very quick meal.
No way! Please don't follow me around.
That won't help us. Let me see now... Why don't you follow this street, Elm, until, you get to the second stoplight.
You should go to talk with May. She is a big fan of them too.
I see. What can I do now?
Our employees receive fifteen days of paid vacation every year. If you don ’ t use the full fifteen days, they carry over to the following year.
Are your free this weekend?
No, there isn't, but there are some vegetables.
Hello, could I speak to the export manager, please?
Then keep up the good work.
Yeah. I really like the stores and the shopping.
And you often go back to live with your parents and leave our son in the room by himself.
I'll cook dinner, don't worry.
I know. That ’ s why I bought it. I hate wearing the same styles like everybody else is wearing.
Mr. Smith, I have been doing some industry research and was shocked to learn that the average salary for a position that is similar to mine pays on average $ 2,000 more per year than I am c
You won't pay anything until your cable starts working again.
that ’ s right.
But I'm not sleepy, Mum. Can I stay and watch more TV?
Just call me Alex. Alex and Alexander are the same thing.
No doubt. Look, I'm just browsing. If I need your help, I'll let you know.
Yes, it does. Now could I have your name, please?
Over there are Stacy and Rebecca. We're all on the school's tennis team.
Susan is going to get a divorce.
Well, he is a hard case. Everyone would feel headache about him.
What will you discuss at the meeting?
Well, for this position, we prefer experienced employees, Those who have just graduated from university, they are supposed to start by working as an intern for at least half a year.
The amount of English I know enables me to do general desk work. I believe what I know is sufficient to work in an American firm.
If you walk down Fair Oaks to Altadena Drive, you can catch the 267.
Didn't Joe feel it a shame to live on his parents since he has graduated from college?
No, we walked. Why, do you need us to carry some stuff home later?
Well, I won ’ t put a crime into their doings.
Here you are. Do you need to see my passport?
I also realized this issue. And office automation is essential.
It's made of genuine ivory, besides, it's of exquisite workmanship. The price is marked 200 yuan.
no, thanks. I'm not in the mood for traveling.
Excuse me.Where do I register?
Well... I'm pretty busy. but... all right. come in. What can I do for you?
Have you heard about Anlesen David?
Her lips? The early morning rose would wither on the branch if it could feel envy.
Get real. Don't be so pathetic.
Where are you now?
Tom's new business will do well.
The shows are dull and they ’ re too many advertisements.
If someone wants to find us, they can look at this floor plan.It shows where all the companies have their booths.
Well, why don't you have some fruit instead?
OK, please be seated. May I have your name, please?
Yes, that sounds like a winner. Would you please call them to reserve a table?
Excuse me, sir, your steamed crabs is coming.
Well, how about Gramercy Tavern? It's a very popular tourist spot, with great food and music.
I'm not finding the work as challenging as I used to. I want to find a job that is stimulating, where I can grow.
We can get started as soon as you fill out this form.
Hello, Ms. Murphy?
Your car's ready.
so have you cured your fear of heights?
What should I do?
Yes, sir. For what time?
Well, It’s not as crowded as we excepted, is it?
What did she tell them? Is she dropping out of college?
What a good day!
Oh yeah and decorating the house too was colored paper and pictures. they will put a Christmas tree just inside the front door, pained toys and colored electric lights along the branches and plays all the gift packages under it
You have to pay a small fee every time you overdraft.
You can come in this afternoon. If you would feel better, bring your husband with you.
The same to you.
I really like that outfit.
I understand, sir. I'll call housekeeping. You'll have your souvenirs shortly.
I'd like to buy some milk powder. What would you recommend?
Shooting guard. The same as Michael Jordan!
I visited the First International Flower Festival in the city last year, and was impressed with so many beautiful flowers!
yes, everything is fine.
It’s wonderful, isn ’ t it? Would you like to see some photos that I took recently?
What have you learned from the jobs you have had?
Sure I am. But he responded by saying'what do you mean? '.
I'm colin. It's nice to meet you. What do you do?
I am starting loving this bakery now.
That was the first thing we did. I have a few pictures. Do you want to see them?
I hardly dare call the police. They'll just laugh at us.
Working for your company! As the top administrative assistant in your firm!
Certainly. I'll be glad to.
Chinese medicine is strange. The patients are already ill, and then the doctor makes them suffer more.
Does she know how to speak Spanish?
Well, I'll give one hundred and eighty yuan for it.
Tonight is a party night! What drinks do you think we need?
I just don ’ t know.
I was looking forward to your arrival.
I have a driver's license, and two years of driving experience.
Can I get there by the No. 913 bus?
Yes, It’s reasonably fast but it certainly isn ’ t cheap. Fares have gone up 25 present.
We are doing Secret Santa at the office again this year.
Yes, he ’ s very good.. isn ’ t he? He told some funny stories too.
I've got a Remittance Advice and I'd like to cash it.
Not much, that new reality-TV show, Ally McNeal, oooo, Dark Angel.
Till next Monday when we check out.
That's it, but will I be able to add more channels at another time?
I really think all Americans look alike.
You have to get up and get ready for school.
Shut up. You should think how to make fortunes, not look for a squabble.
That sounds interesting!
How are you feeling?
You can say that again. Susan ’ brother dropped in from out of town, so I offered to put him up for a few days. But he ’ s driving me up a wall. This guy is bottomless pit.
Your estimated is seems a little high to me, we're willing to pay $ 80 per unit.
We are all going to have great interviews. What are some things that we need to remember in an interview?
You'll soon get accustomed to it.It ' s not difficult.Well, here's the bus.Fortunately, it's not full.
Excuse me, but are you Mr. Smith from Britain?
actually, it was just some leftovers from yesterday. I made far too much food to eat alone. I am glad you could come over to help me finish it.
Give me one kilo of those, please. Do you have any fresh plums?
No, sir.Can I help you?
Yes, I was. I was almost an hour late.
Well, she ’ s tall and pretty.
I found them at JC Pennies.
What's wrong with Debbie today? She seems upset about something.
But we can't have thirteen for dinner!
We do many things. In the morning, we go swimming and boating. In the afternoon, we play basketball or tennis. We sit around a camp fire at night.We sing or tell stories.
Hi, I'm calling from Nika Corporation. We would like to hold a business lunch at the restaurant.
Not much. I had to pay an unexpected bill, so I needed the money back.
Let me take you.
I have told you that I don ’ t need them any more. The thing that really annoys me is that you played dumb with me.
I don't think we need too much in the way of soft drinks, Two super bottles of Cola should cover everyone. What about wine?
It is really good news. How much do you earn a week now?
It’s almost impossible to get the right balance. If you are too strict, kids might ignore you. If you are too lenient, they might go wild.
Could you excuse me a moment? I have to make a phone call
how about spicy food?
How much money can you spend?
Mom, you are the best!
they did. He inherited the money form an uncle. I hope he doesn ’ t lose a lot of it in taxed to the government.
In that case, we will have to improve one month further on the time. Now is Jan. If the fertilizers should be shipped before the end of March, only 2 months are left. The time is too limited.
Sure. What do you want?
It's said that the government will clamp down on the new policy.
Yes. I was chosen as one of ' the Top Ten Prominent Youths of Beijing ' in 2002.
I was the only one who got a strait A in my class.
What ’ s the problem?
I need to find somewhere to park.
Do you mind if I take some notes while we drive?
Let ’ s just hope the politicians don ’ t figure out a way to spend it.
Yeah, I really got a lot of the session. The workshop topic was resolving personal problems. It was led by a professional human resources director. The teacher had a lot of experience, and I think we were all given a really good base to start with.
You do allow pets, don't you?
Have you brought the receipt with you?
OK. That's what I can do.
For one month. If you can ’ t return the books in time, you'll be fined. But if you renew them, you can keep them longer.
I am sure we will. Actually, we are looking forward to seeing the great wonder.
How nice of you to come!
This is very annoying.
That's O. K. Maybe his wife will spill the beans!
Sorry, Mary, I can't make it in time for dinner.
Oh, yes. Here it is.
Yeah, let me think, the kangaroo and koala bear from Australia are very famous.
Yes, what would you recommend?
It was actually a long two months. She was a psycho.
I was planning on making some kind of vegetable.
Poor boy! But don't worry. Here are two pills made in Germany. It's really effective. He will be just fine.
Frank London. Any chance of a table by the window?
This is the best card I ever received.
Go to gate No. 2 please.
Thank you for your compliment.Won ' t you try this fish with white sauce? I'm rather round of it.
And the TV program also said that physical exercise helps people deal with stress.
Could you repeat that please?
I need a taxi.
Well, you can't compare a small balcony to this large veranda. This is perfect for having a barbecue in summer.
They should have then listed on their resumes.
I want a facial. But this is the first time I've come here, so can you tell me how you do it?
That sounds great. I ’ ll boring a bottle of wine.
I hope so. I'm not actually a customer here, but I saw an advertisement in yesterday's newspaper about your new bank card.
That shouldn't be too difficult. Since this is a small neighborhood, maybe they will take this suggestion.
Very well. We ’ Ve got everything taken care of already.
Thank you. I am glad we have come to an agreement at last.
Senior account rep.
That's normal. You have been sitting for three hours, with your attention highly concentrated.
TV towers are usually thicker at the bottom than at the top. They ’ re not perfectly cylindrical.
I suggest letting each employee fill out his or her own evaluation for those items. Then, based on their self - assessment, you can add your comments. It's a great starting point for discussion
Yes, do you have a table for five?
What a good idea!
I ’ ll be worried if you stay out late.
The service is free to hotel patrons. However, printing costs ten cents per page.
I ’ m going to need my deposit back.
Yes. Thank you. May I see your passport, please?
Would 1 : OO p. m. be convenient?
Good job! Please give them a bath later on today.
Zina. Look, I know when I hired you, I told you I'd pay you a salary. But I just can't.
Why? Are you planning to stir-fry my face?
Oh, I see. I'll call the manager, then.
How are you feeling, champ? Ready to go?
Our benefits usually include medical insurance, public accumulation fund and allowances.
The bank closes in 30 minutes and I need to cash a check.
Yes, Mr. Mason, I just checked with our office manager, Ms. Terry, she said Mr. Smith briefed her on your project. She is just finishing up a meeting now. She could be with your shortly. Would you like me to show you around while you are waiting?
Peter, why don't you go outside and play basketball with your friends?
No, not out of order. But we seem to have a bad connection on the phone line. I can ’ t hear you clearly.
I would like to leave Hong Kong September the first and leave Houston for Tampa on September the 12th.
Hey Tina. What are you doing?
We had a difference of opinion.
Joan is a thorough drag!
Hi, how are you?
Kevin? Hi, It’s Elizabeth. I have a big favor to ask you.
No, I haven't. What about you?
Elaine ’ s back from school. I think it might be a nice gesture if you asked her out. I suppose she ’ s not good enough for you, is that it?
I see. Well, we have a lot of Spanish customers, but you wouldn't need to write any Spanish here.
Exactly. Anything else?
Excuse me, sir. Are there only 3 programs in your hotel?
That ’ s a small fee?
Believe it or not, the company I worked for closed down, so I ’ m out of a job.
Yes, I see that here... continuing education for the IT department, a time management course for accounting, and team building for sales. Anything planned for HR?
Really? That's great. You hope to join a company after graduating?
How do you get along with your boss?
Do you have any advice?
All right! Thanks!
But you should be considerate to the kids, It’s their nature to play.
fine, we ’ ll do that on the way home, so we don ’ t have to carry it the whole time.
Oh, that's nice. Thank you for arranging all of this.
Sure. By all means please do. Please take a seat.
Wow, I didn ’ t know! It always looks so cool and easy in the movies!
They're awesome! I was browsing through the eBay auction today, and I found the cutest fat little copper Buddha! It's over a hundred years old.
No problem, I'll play as hard as I can and give you an extra game to say thanks.
Yeas, It is. Sewen Jes speaking. How can I help?
Don ’ t worry, I can handle that. And I know if the boss is there, even it is an informal evening, it does not make a good impression to get totally drunk in front of him.
Ok, I'll go out and look for her.
Oh, gosh! I have to go to the restroom so bad! I can't bear it anymore!
Yes, ma'ma. There'll be no problem with the quality.
Oh, yes, that will help me a lot.
The job has a menu plan where you are given a fixed amount of money and you choose what you most need in terms of benefits.
I think Tom might have been nominated for one of his films, but I don't think he won anything.
Don ’ t worry. Just check in your bag before entering.
I think she's misinterpreted my intentions. What happens now?
I have everything right here. I'll let you go through that and come back. I'd like to have a good read of your materials to make sure I make the right choice.
Some of his early films are hard to find nowadays, especially the ones where he only played a bit part.
Sure, Tuesday ’ s perfect. May I ask where you ’ re calling from?
just one more thing. A school called me this morning to see if I could teach a few classes this weekend and I don't know what to do.
No, I can ’ t speak French. But I can speak Italian, not very well though.
I proposed to my wife in your restaurant and I would like the same table if I can.
Yes, she did a little. But you see, Americans are different from Chinese. You can ’ t depend on your own mother to be a full-time babysitter. She could baby-sit only once or twice a week. That ’ s it. I had to care for them most of the time.
I see. What time do you want to depart from the hotel?
I'm still nervous. I don't know what to say to the manager. I always feel ill at ease in that kind of place.
I'm leaving on Sunday. We're going to Canada.
How long does your offer remain valid? I need some time to get my supervisors on board with this plan.
I didn't like it. Not a bit. I couldn't stand the music. Besides the story was so boring that it put me to sleep.
I believe It’s going to Ms. Wilson ’ s office.
Thanks. Does it suit me?
I just told you, Debbie. I tried to call you twenty times!
No, it's already included in your room fare.
That's acceptable.
Nah, not too flashy.
You are not the gray train, I guess. But bite the bullet and you'll soon be in the chips again.
Look, next time get yourself some comfy shoes. You ’ re gonna come back again with me, aren ’ t you?
Oh, I thought you just gave an excuse on this note.
I ’ m sorry sir, but you can ’ t take any of this into the country. We will also have to check your carry-on. Please step this way. Don ’ t ’ be nervous ; we ’ ll just look through it briefly and then
Me, too. She speaks very clearly and doesn't use very complicated words so that it is easy for us to understand her.
Yes, I see. There are just the two of you at the moment. Please take a look through this brochure ; it's especially for first-time-buyers. I think it'll be very helpful.
Right. ( five minutes later ) Now, what are you having?
We went to Malaysia and Thailand.
That's the best part. It wasn't for anything special. He just wanted to buy me something.
It's a pleasure to meet you. My name is Lucy.
Of course. I will be here minutes later.
Sorry, he has just gone out now. Can I take a message for you?
Sure, please hold on.
Registration plus overnight... err... seven dollars in all.
Do you remember the rules of road safety?
That's all you need to know about the interview for the job as a fireman. Any other questions?
Dear, this bakery has introduced some new types of cake recently and you can eat as much as you can.
I don't know. She always said I didn't love her, but I did.
The only thing I will need to see is your driver ’ s license, as I will be notarizing these papers.
That means it's developing very fast.
Oh, yes. I remember. You must be Mr Xie. It's nice to put a face to a voice.
I want to see Disney World, Sea World, Universal Studios, and Weeki-Watchee Springs.
Both Bob and carl will become somebody in the future.Don ' t you think so?
Well, it was all a big mistake, actually. He got home on Friday night really late, and apparently he'd been out drinking with some clients, so he was really drunk.
We're forming a study group to prepare for the finals. Do you want to join us?
OK, you got me. So, do you have a subscription?
Sure. You mean this one?
Thank you. I think I will go there.
Okay. I'll write up the paperwork.
Thank you very much, that's kind of you.
Hello, ma'am. Can I help you?
I'm afraid the cardboard boxes are not strong enough for ocean transportation.
Certainly. First of all, the old model had a rather small screen, so not much information could appear at one time. So on the new model, we have made the screen much bigger and...
He's a chicken guy.
I have a 10 - year-old boy and a 6 - year-old girl.
We ’ re going fishing.
I voted for Obama, of course!
Where is the pipe?
That's it.
Barbie is our best seller. She's only $ 29.95.
Today's her birthday and she told me she wants me to buy her flowers.
Yes, you are supposed to meet the president at ten fifteen this morning. Then, you have a lunch appointment with Mr. Clark. And this afternoon at three you are scheduled to speak before a group of seminar participants.
Do you want me to make any other stops while I'm out?
Now I see what you read the book for. But it's fine. I'll give you the lion's share.
I want to send this letter to the US by airmail.
How about this one? It's not that concentrated.
Thank you. Nice to meet you, too.
Hello, is that Susan who applied for an accountant in our company through the phone?
Take care of yourself.
Of course, it is a nice song that can make audience calm and pleasant.
Do I need to pay any extra change for my suitcases?
That's right.Move along, please.There are more people waiting to get on.Move to the rear.
Yes, why not? I mean, if you come to this cafe often, maybe we could meet here and practice Chinese and English.
You must have rolled over something just now.
My neighbor hit my brother on the head. He ’ s bleeding.
All right. Over here, sir. How are you today?
Some people are easily flimflammed.
Really? That's wonderful. Can you wait a second? I need to change.
Go to the western side of the campus, and you'll find it there.
No, It’s 777-9344?
From tomorrow till January 8th. That's five days in all.
I know he has brought great trouble to you. A million thanks.
Good morning, Sir. Can I help you with something?
Yeah you are right. This office is falling apart! Frank told me the other day that the gutters outside were clogged and that ’ s why the parking lot was flooded.
I had my own ways of finding out.It ' s a secret. You look so beautiful today. Your new shirt goes well with your skirt.
Hi Linda, what can I do for you?
No, I really must go now. My family are expecting me home soon.
Do you charge for delivery?
That's a great idea!
I'm OK. I promise. Maybe you don't know that I have done with him for a long time.
It's on the 2nd floor. We are going to see some beautiful paintings about the history of ancient Greece.
Umm... You know... Actually I was thinking of trying another airline. No need to hold my seat.
you must have been devastated!
I'd like sports, please.
You can put on your shades. And remember don't make your skin look like a tomato. Or else after that your skin will begin to flake off. You may even wind up with skin cancer.
Hello! How do I get online with my laptop?
No, I probably need to do some more research.
It's my pleasure. Hope you ’ ll visit Beijing more often.
I ’ m sure that will be very popular.. OK, let ’ s think about how we can put these ideas into practice.
Oh, I thought you said Laura. Sorry about that. This is the right number, but Heather's not here right now.
You stopped just in time. Good for you!
Are you a visitor or a resident?
Welcome to the company. We are conducting a survey of new employees to find out what influenced them to choose our company.
Maybe you should have told me first?
Do you know any spaces on campus?
Black, of course.
This is he. May I help you?
In my opinion, overly strict regulations are just another way of restricting imports.
But you're not to blame for them keeping him there.
that doesn't sound pretty.
I'm sleepy. I can hardly keep my eyes open.
I'll take a front one.My name is John Brown. J-O-H-N B-R-O-W-N.
Oh, I didn ’ t know that! I thought they just paint it on your skin or something.
How do you think if I volunteer for some work?
It is not too late. Pass your ticket to me, please.
So what's the movie about?
That ’ s an unlisted number. I ’ m sorry, but I can ’ t give it to you.
I think, maybe, it takes a real Kung fu master to give a more fair assessment ; meanwhile, I am no more than a beginner. But I really doubt whether kung fu would be of any great help when it comes to defending oneself in real life.
Excuse me, Mr. Emory? Mr. Macmillan, would like to know if you have the completed schedule for next week?
I want to get some ground beef.
Do you know if there's a convenience store around here?
It seems to me like I may have caught a bug.
No problem. Good night.
Bob! Your eyes look bloodshot. Did you not sleep well?
My home phone, the landline. I don't have a mobile phone, far too complicated for an old lady like me! Do you need my Bank Book?
I'd like to open a savings account. What's the interest rate now?
That is very kind of you, Mr Lee. Thank you.
OK... Here you are. Any problem on that?
I don't believe you.
Our country really could use some work.
Two suitcases and a handbag. The suitcases are blue and the shoulder bag is red.
The lecturer is dull, too.
You're right. I love it very much.
There's nothing definite I think. I don't have a list or anything, but when I first meet somebody, I can usually tell whether or not that person is going to be a good friend. It seems I have radar helping me spot new friends.
OK. What are the biggest cities?
I think so! Just serve a lot of sweet dishes next week. That will make the kitchen god say sweet things about you!
Looks pretty good.
Yikes! Thanks for your interest in this job. We ’ ll be getting back to you.
It's when people quit a bad habit or do something they find hard to do. Many people resolve to quit smoking, lose weight, or stop nagging their wife, etc. However, it usually lasts only for a few days!
I'm going for a walk, Yi-jun. I need some time to myself.
Why are you going to take English with chemistry and physics?
Do you know where Helen is?
Thank you for calling ABC Company, may I help you?
Apple, banana and strawberry pie.
OK, thanks. Does it work really? I'll give a try.
You can find it in most restaurant. The best place certainly is Quanjude restaurant.
Yes, thank you very much.
Well, we have classes and some medications that might help. I ’ ll give you more information before you leave.
And for your entree?
Let's go to Wangfujing by bus.
What about him being black?
Merry Christmas, Lily.
It's an ugly day today.
Do I have to have an operation?
He is on the line.
I just feel a little tired. You know, it took me 16 hours to get here.
Great. How much?
I apologize for their tardiness.
Tina, you should have more nutritious food.Don ' t eat these crisps any more.
Where is it.
Within 2 weeks once we receive your orders.
Are there any good programs on TV?
I'm attending PCC right now.
I haven't had a chance to see it.
It was just over two million euros last year.
Hi, Kathy. Have you had lunch?
Well, we could probably get started with a preparatory meeting this afternoon at 2:00.
Give me a quart of light oil.
Yeah, you are right!
It is best if we can go during the week ; does that work for you?
Can we get in touch with you by e-mail? Is this convenient for you?
Hello. I bought a China dress in your shop this morning.
He does that?
It's in the C building.
I know what you mean, but I'd better remind them again, and also remind them to repair the button in the elevator for the disabled people. That has brought the disabled people lots of inconvenience.
OK. Do you have your ID card on you?
it sounds like you've got a perfect plan.
That one looks pretty big. Are you going to keep it?
The test tomorrow.
It was my favorite.
Don't tease me! Good food is really important to Chinese!
Someone will be up shortly with your order, sir.
There are many ways ; what kind of job would you like?
One second, please. ( a few seconds later, the receiver comes back and says ) Hello?
Yes. I was in charge of profit and loss for the northwest region of Canada. As a manager, I was directly responsible for a 50 % increase in sales over a four-month period.
There's no food left from dinner.
Hi. This is Amy Yang. I ’ m calling for a home phone cancellation. I ’ m moving out next month.
A trip to China for summer vacation. Wow! What a wonderful surprise! Thank you. This is the best surprise I've ever had.
I ’ m Jack. What ’ s your name?
Really? I've already opened this one.Say, this is sweet, and it's just what I need to go with my new suit.Thank you ever so much.
Oh, that's fine.
How did you do in the last quiz?
I am not!
Hurry up, the show is about to start.
Do you like this job?
We scored six goals.
A cup of hot orange juice.
Ok. How about some lamb kebabs?
Well, I... anyways, I was just thinking of the red envelopes. I wanna make a list of all the things I ’ m gonna buy with my red envelope money! I can ’ t wait! I ’ m gonna have so much money! Mom, can I get a pen and a piece of paper? I want a new transformer, no, two transformers... the Optimums Prime, and... maybe the wheeljack? I ’ ll get a PSP game, ahahah, and I ’ ll buy the entire class lunch at MacDonald ’ s...
Oh, don't let that worry you. If that were true, China wouldn't have such a large population.
How long does the tour last?
Yes, and I want to buy the insurance too. I think it's necessary.
Well, sometimes I think of how things could have turned out if I had done things a little differently.
I ran into a glass door yesterday.
Yes, we have landscape paintings, figure paintings and flower-and-bird paintings.
Yes, we can. But you need wait a moment.
Andrew's Hair Salon, this is Andrew.
Yes. I ’ d like to book a table for Friday evening please.
Well, I know you ’ re pretty booked up these days. But, we ’ Ve got to work fast on this.
Call us as soon as you get home.
If I understand the terms correctly, the length of the contract would be one year with a one-year option. Is that correct?
I'll try ; it's hard!
Everything about them was different, even the theaters.
Is anybody here?
What we usually do is find a suitable car dealer for you, who offer the type of car that you need. If it's a family car that you want, we have a very reliable dealer already contracted to us.
Fine, I've got that. And your company is...
Yes, I will introduce the itinerary in detail.
An understanding of the basic workings of a company and the services or goods it provides is essential. Do you have that?
You apparently missed a court appearance.
Well, i don't see the point of arguing this.
Very good, you majored in International Trade?
Nice to meet you, too. I thought I should come and say hello to you. I haven't known anybody.
Oooo... gross... you're sweating all over the place.
People who play ultimate Frisbee have a positive attitude ; maybe you should join the ultimate Frisbee club.
I'm almost done.
You mean get married now? On the plane?
I think account to individual would be best. But which is the quickest way?
It's like $ 130 each ticket.
It might work. I ’ ll have to hear it. Show me what you ’ Ve done. Not bad.
That's what you think.
It was really nice talking to you also.
Why do you say such words? I love you very much.
Can you repeat all that? I think I'd better write it down.
Will it wash well and the color won't fade?
Certainly, Mr. Emory. What can I do for you?
I see. Why do people come all the way here to pick apples by themselves and take them home? Isn't it easier for them to buy the apples in the supermarket?
I know what you mean. However, there are so few places left that have not been affected by global warming. If it's not the pollution, then it's the natural disasters, deforestation, or the greenhouse effect.
Wow, let me try. It tastes nice. How did you make it?
And he himself is very diligent. Considering all these, I think he has the ball at his feet.
Sure. Do you have my number?
OK. After three days, I will come to you for it.
Do you have an essay you want to send them?
I guess you're right. I can help you ask other hotels. I am sure there are probably some available.
What did you do?
150 yuan for hard seats.
It's very nice. I like it very much.
Today is Saturday.
That's right. You should give it up, too.It ' s bad for your health.
Excuse me. I need some storybooks in easy English. Do you have anything like that?
Oh, hi. I was just watching TV.
I have a major stomachache
A cold-wave, please.
Oh, sure, it was great. I had popcorn for dinner and paid the price of a movie ticket to get a two-hour nap.
That ’ s right, Ms. Bower. How are you? I ’ m not sure if I ’ ll be able to fit you in this week, I ’ m afraid.
Well, that sounds just wonderful.
Don ’ t you think it would be an idea to name the ship Dolphin?
What are they? I ’ ll be careful.
Do you eat any special food for the festival?
What changes were made from the old page to the new page?
At 2 thirty.
I've been told about something called Southern Fund. How can I buy it?
well, I wish someone could talk to me about Western table manners
Very well, and how many people will attend tonight?
No, it's not necessary. But you have to fill out this form.
I couldn ’ t have been any happier!
Thank you. Where can I put my suitcase?
No dessert for you unless you eat all of your vegetables.
Are you going to leave school at the end of the term?
About 300 a month.
Bill! Sure, come on in. What can I do for you?
Excuse me. What's the actual flying time from here to San Francisco?
How have you been getting on with your studies so far?
Oh really? Is he all right?
Yes, I Went there once last summer.
Is that Hello Kitty?
I am aware you have been working so hard. Before hiring more employees, you are still needed to do this.
What a find! So, how much does it cost?
Many companies and universities investing resources in genetics, because there are so many possibilities. Few people know where next discoveries will be made.
Ella, it's been such a long week. I'm ready to go out and party. Hey, let's go out for a night on the town.
Really? Please get it for me.
How bad did I do?
OK, here you are.
Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Tim.
I have passed CET - 6 and I am proficient in reading and translating foreign materials. I have rich translating experience because I used to be an English translator.
Maybe. But it provides much wider space for me to improve the skills and increase the experience. What about you?
Why don't you try to give it up?
How about the iguana?
OK, so this is our newest machine. It was only installed last year.
Perhaps you should get checked out at the Student Health Center before you go home.
All right, sir. You will park at refueling 4.
How much are the lemons?
Hi Mary, This is Tom.
Donna! How are you? It's good to hear your voice.
This is a precious opportunity for us and our company.
But you should have told me you were in love with her.
I understand, I guess.
Fine. Thank you very much. Bye-bye.
Okay, I will.
OK.Let me make a wish... Do you want a big piece of cake?
Good morning, Star Airline. What can I do for you?
Yes. I think the designers are saying that these clothes are what they would like to see people wear if those people weren ’ t concerned with what other people might think. In a way, the designers are saying ‘ don ’ t worry about what others think. Wear what you like! ’.
that sounds ideal. can we go to have a look at it? we'd like to see it before making a final decision.
Yes, please ask when you want to borrow my records next time.
You can buy them hard. Wait a few days for them to develop a soft feel.
Did you hear something?
yes, it was a very evenly matched game.
Anne, would you please come in for a while? Please also bring along the minutes of yesterday's management meeting.
That's a cool jacket. Where did you get it?
Please tell me the price, so I can make a decision.
Her father is dying.
I heard Nick found a job in a bank and his salary is said very high. I also want to work there.
Of course we need a home inspector.But we can hire an inspector on our own.And as for the legal problems, I have friends. They can help us.
I ’ Ve decided to go to the cinema alone this evening.
well, that ’ s good. If you lose your job, you can just move in with me until you find another job. That will save you plenty of money.
Great! Thank you very much.
Sure, but this week is crazy for me. Can we make it next Monday?
The phone has been ringing off the hook today.
You ’ re all set to leave.
Well... How about Friday then?
That can ’ t be true!
Better luck this time.
Didn't you hear? He was disqualified.
People in show biz can have such an easy life ; I don't know why they have to make it so complicated.
Just a moment, please. Oh, yes. One twin and one single. Is that right?
Just my cameras, my clothes, and some books.
Three. Would you please help us take them to the hall?
I want to hear more about this apartment.
Would you like to withdraw any money?
How many days do you take off for Easter?
That is a very serious problem you see, the bank must assess your personal information, past loans, assets and any other relevant information such as your credit score in order to approve your loan.
Can I speak to Miss Cooper please?
Well, he did it anyway. Then he came into my room and shot all his shit blah blah blah... you know.
Maybe you're right. Thanks, Don. I feel better.
Did you eat something strange?
Excuse me. Can I ask you a question?
The material was not damaged by us.
I see. What is that ratio exactly?
Excuse me, waiter, would you please bring us a nest? A friend of mine will join us.
Don't worry, you'll find a way.
That it easy.They get caught before they come here.
OK, a taxi will be there by 9:30.
That ’ s ok. If you could just bring it in tomorrow, I would appreciate it.
How much do you want?
I think I'm going to get a soda today.
( After trying ) I'm afraid it's still too fight around the stomach.
I need to take a driver's course.
Will my record be cleared after I pay the fine?
Hello, is that Xiaogang Li who applied for the Solar Studio of our college?
I know I am going to be busy, but I know I can handle it. I have been looking forward to this day for a long long time.
You know. Tests like how jealous are you? and are you a fashion victim?
Excuse me, would you please tell me where I can find a telephone?
Yes, it's a very well-known kind of spirits in Mexico. People drink it with salt and lemon.
Isn't it wonderful walking here?
Why do you listen to rap?
Thank you for your help.
There are beaches in Australia too, but I would prefer a more active holiday this year. We could visit Ayers rock and the great barrier reef. It would be so exciting.
That's not exactly a conversation piece. It's so plain.
I apologize for that. But the space is too small.
Say hi to your parents for me. I hope to see them soon.
What's the weather like in spring?
I can ’ t wait to vote.
You know what? I don ’ t think I can hack it here out in the countryside. I ’ m going back to the city!
Oh, great! Let's discuss it together. Now, when am I off then?
Good afternoon, Chloe, I ’ m Doctor Evans.What seems to be the problem?
Yeah, and you never have to worry about scraping for change.
Of course. I can eat a horse now.
You could inquire about the results directly, but should be politely.
Yes, but it must be treated in an effluent treatment plant first.
Yes, I know a great place. What types of food do you like?
It is strange that some people are quitting their jobs in order to find a better one. What do you think? Do you want to quit your job?
How about you, Chuck? Where did you grow up?
Hi, Mary, you have been a secretary for several years in this company. Could you tell me what a secretary should do for a meeting or a conference?
By credit card, please. And what kind of credit cards do you honor?
What is your trial about?
It was OK. There was a lot of turbulence, though.
Have you heard about the new iPhone?
Sweet and sour pro chops, Madam.
Would you like me to tell you where I got mine.
What ’ s wrong with the fax machine? Is it urgent?
It was spring, but the weather was awful. It rained all the time.
That ’ s it? Thank you very much.
I'm not going to be able to do that.
Let me try. It has to be somewhere amazing, and far away... Egypt?
I thought so. I felt dizzy this morning.
The initial amount is just 2,000 RIB, but we can go up to 100,000 RIB. But remember, it cannot exceed the amount on the certificates you are using as collateral.
Healthy eating is not about depriving oneself of the foods one loves. So we are free to have whatever foods we love. It is unbelievable.
I need that to relax. I'm going to put a few drops in my bath water.
That's good. And I can also recommend you a good one. It's the brand of DENY.
What was your call about?
Is the girl in red your girlfriend?
oh, yes. Our windows let plenty of natural light in. They've also got wonderful views of the park behind our house.
I think we ’ ll benefit a lot.
I am glad you are here! See if you can find the problem.
Why don't you take a taxi? It'll get you there much faster.
My husband and I have thought about it, but we ’ Ve decided not to have any. They are just too expensive. Besides, with all the news about global warming on the news lately, who knows what kind of world we ’ ll have in the future. What about you?
Sure, no problem. Do you want me to edit it for you?
Do you often surf the Internet?
It was really an exciting moment.
Well, it's OK, I suppose. We get about the equivalent of six months ' salary.
I am confused about the projected revenues.
Hey, daughter, let me ask you something.
What sort of job do you have in mind?
Hi there! I am looking for a new car. I have this old Ford Pinto that I would like to trade in.
Yes, it's Zheg In and my number is 3811658.
O. K. May I have your name please?
I want some chocolate.
how long is your contract for?
I don't care for coke. I heard that coke was first used as a medicine and I don't like medicine. What else has caffeine?
Do you know what they are playing?
Relax, those buses run every 10 minutes, so we have plenty of time.
Hi, Martin. What can I do for you?
The Dai people are enthusiastic.
Okay, I won't forget.
Mr.Martin, we're on arrival.
So the price was good?
Not well. I ’ Ve been feeling pretty lonely lately.
What time do you have?
I'd be a basket case if you think of me that way. I need your understanding.
I worked as a personnel manager in a state-owned company, and then I transferred to a joint venture as a sales manager. So I am familiar with the exile market in China.
I'm going to.
Hey, how's it going?
You'd better ask for suggestions from a career counselor, and then make a decision.
OK! Here you go.
Dad, hurry! The train is coming. Aha, I am a superman.
Have you got any selling experience at all?
You'd better take an umbrella.
He ’ ll get used to it. They always do. I still remember when my daughter started. Are you going with him on his first day?
I see. He's usually here on Tuesday mornings...
You will receive a notice for a phone interview, which will continue the process.
About 200. They can assemble at least 3,000 computers every day.
Sir, according to your file, you spent Monday evening watching ' Titanic. '
Thank you for coming. We will have dinner outside. Eat up!
I was wondering if you need any help on your new project.
Yeah, hold on a second. I ’ Ve got it in my office. Here it is. 553-2213.
Why is that? It is called real art.
You can always go to work late.
Call the police.
Who cares? It's just online. It's not real. Do you want to join me tonight?
Daddy, I love this Happy Farmhouse. It's really fun.
You have got a problem, haven't you?
This one looks great! I love the seashore.
I think they went to Mexico, but I'm not sure.It ' s a bad thing to return home to.They ' ll come home from their trip, and they'll see half their house burned.
I've never seen a movie I don't like that had Harrison Ford in it.
Has Robert ever missed coming to one of our parties?
There's a taxi rank over there, right outside the gate.
The best... huh? With so many companies out there, how did they establish themselves in such a solid position on top?
Would you like me to go into a little more detail about the free services we can offer you?
That's true.But I feel that I see more when I travel by bus.
As you know, Miss Wang, we are looking for an executive secretary with business background and good English skills. We looked into your resume and thought you might be a good candidate.
Have you seen the news that there is a serious flood in the South?
Thank you. I suppose I should go to see a doctor.
The trash of the world he sets high price upon, but the heavenly things he shamefully undervalues.
Good, yes, your tonsils are a little swollen and red. How are your ears, blocked at all?
you're a good student. I'm sure you can do well. What you need to do is to relax.
I agree. But I think although it has some negative effects, on the whole Internet does more good to us than harm.
Good idea. I ’ d be very happy to go there.
Since the internet isn't broken, your connection must be messed up.
Oh, how can you be infatuated with horror films? They're so scary.
Yeah, I want the note.
Well, I guess people who lived here before didn't clean the bathtub.
No, now it's bedtime.
Which room are you in?
I said it's 5:10 PM.
Can any unit see my information?
I hope so. And I will definitely tell you if I can not.
There will be 4 of us.
Have you ever read this book before?
Thanks very much and you're very eloquent.
Oh, ISEE. So factory tours are good for companies as well as visitors.
Of course not. I'm just observing casual day. On Fridays, the company doesn't require us to wear formal business attire.
I just felt that the paper couldn ’ t offer me any new opportunities. I really needed a more challenging role to be honest.
Well, there are basically two methods. One is to break down the chemicals in the plastic into smaller chemical particles. These can then be used in the production of new chemicals.
I'll give you some medicine, and you will be better in a couple of days.
All right.Gotta go, bye, keep in touch.
Sorry, sir. We have only double tables left.
I need it delivered tomorrow. Will that be possible?
Lures? We're using live bait over here.
That isn ’ t a problem.
For starters, we should start doing more outdoor activities. That way we'll get some exercise.
No. I can't wait. I feel awful. The dinner appointment has to be canceled.
Yes, that's right. And how about you?
The Giants are up by three points because of the field goal they kicked, but the Redskins have the ball and there pretty close to the end zone.
would you rather have her or your old boss back?
What should I prepare for the recruitment fair?
It broke down one year ago.
How do you do? My name is John White.
All right, but tell me what ’ s happening. Give it to me straight please.
That's 7 dollars and 25 cents. You can get free refills with your coke.
Yes, I have received an Engineers Qualification Certificate and a drivers license.
Actually, I haven ’ t been to the states but I have been to Canada.
Then let's split the difference and I'll give you 60 yuan, OK?
You are not going to give it up, are you?
Well, keep this under your hat, but I think I'm going to quit after New Year.
Is this the central park to East Market bus?
Are we allowed to go into the stacks to look for books?
Here's fifteen Yuan.
I don't want you to leave until you clean up.
Well, I think perhaps you'd better speak to our Production Manager, Mr. Yao. You'll meet him when we go over to the factory.
No, I don't think I have. But I would like to hear the full details, if you think it'll be beneficial to me.
It just won't connect to a webpage, but it will pop up.
It’s available now, and It’s got a very good location. You won ’ t be far from work.
Well, I think you may be overreacting. Mitch likes to give everybody constructive criticism and I think that's what he was doing.
Now, Let me have a look at you. I ’ d like to listen to your chest. Breathe then, deep breath, that ’ s it. Cough, now again. I want to exam your throat too. Open wide, say A.
How old is Keith?
Wow! You're right! This refrigerator is great. I'll take it.
I like him.He ' s good for her.
sure. A UFO is just a space vehicle from another planet. If you think about it, our space shuttles are UFOs.
Hi, Lin Tao. I have't seen you for some time.
All right. You can rest assured that we will do everything possible to advance shipment. The fertilizers will be delivered before April.
But I'm going on a business trip in two days!
Okay, thank you. I'll make another reservation as soon as I can.
All right. We can grant a Financing Promise Quota, if you qualify. This means that we can deal with all of your needs in a speedy and efficient way. Firstly, your Credit Rating must be class A, and your Debt to Asset Ratio must be top notch, for the industry you are involved in.
Hey, Anna, this is Jason.
Seeing as they were late, that won't be a problem.
Do you have an appointment with her?
Really? That's unusual for October, isn't it?
Sure, let me take a look... Personal Information, Education, Experience, Training... I think you should add another section for language. You speak three languages, so you might as well put that on your resume.
Oh, congratulations. Sounds like you've found your soul mate.
Hello, Green here.
I suppose I should choose one from the ' Best Career List ', to be a public officer, what do you think?
Okay, we'll put it in the trunk. Ah, it is so heavy.
No, all flights are direct.
They only said wonderful things about you. You did a good job of finding me.
Let me see here... yes, there's one left.
Then I believe you have a confirmation slip.
How long have you been there?
Welcome to Lens Magic, ma ’ am.How can I help you?
Jones can certainly take down letter more quickly, but Mary ’ s short hand is the best in her class.
What time would you prefer?
Medicine Industry, this is Peter Bush speaking, can I help you?
yes. It was starving and looking for something to eat when I saw it.
I should have some free time next week. Say, next Wednesday evening?
It is on the right. But it is on the other side of the lights.
It's so cheap. I'll buy one, too.
This skirt is too tight. I would like to return it please. Do I need to go to the customer's service desk?
I'd like to book a ticket to Singapore, please.
Certainly, madam. What kind of coffee would you like?
How about tomorrow morning?
What subject did you major in at university?
That seems to be a bit low, but that's not uncommon when you're ill.
Only when you are aware of what the interviewer will be interested in, can you make a targeted preparation.
Any cereal, sir?
How long will you be staying?
I don't know. But I bet it must have been a good offer, or she wouldn't have accepted it.
Why are you reading the classifieds? What do you need?
Forget it! If you think I ’ d ever set foot that inferior restaurant again, you gotta be nuts. Last time I ate that food, almost vomited. The service in there is terrible. It was the first time I ever stiffed a waiter
I'm not quite positive. I think I went out at about half pass nine.
Is that a guided tour?
Because it was her husband who beat her.
You ’ d better tidy up the room now, or you ’ ll get your mum ’ s back up.
Right. Sorry. Anyway, the radio said that it'll rain later today.
78 dollars a day with unlimited mileage.
Confronted with difficult questions in an interview, the job-hunters mostly will be at a loss about what to do.
Thank you. I'm glad that wasn't too much of a bother.
exactly. You know, the sunshine and wind remind me of our honeymoon. You remember? The island, the sound of the waves, the salty sea air and the sunshine...
You are so Platonic. Those naive girls will eventually grow into real women. They can't resist love, and men cannot resist their attraction either.
I think that the designers hold these fashion shows for a few reasons. First, It’s just like a big party. They can meet each other and network. The other thing is that it is great advertising. All the journalists and photographers are there. Thirdly, it give them a chance to show what they would like to see people wearing.
I ’ m sorry, Mr. Baker ’ s not in. May I take your message?
Sorry, I can't dance.
Certainly. Tell me the room number and your name, please?
Can you believe her? She is not even a hundred pounds and she is going off on how she wants to go on a diet.
About ten days ago. I ’ Ve tried to use it since then. Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn ’ t. It’s very frustrating.
No. The things are too expensive there for me. I can't afford it.
OK. Wait for a moment, please. I'll be back in a moment with the dishes.
Impressive! So, what would you consider to be your greatest weakness?
Yes, sometimes the music there is so beautiful. It is very romantic. I can stay there for hours.
Marco has fallen off a ladder. I think he's hurt his back. What shall we do?
You're right... I should eat something. Let's go.
That's $ 20 in all.
You have a very good taste, this pair is the latest product.
Come here ; let me introduce some friends to you.
I heard some companies are providing stress management training and making changes inside them, like avoiding unrealistic deadlines and organizing relaxation activities. Our boss is a smart person. He will be learning from that if he would like to an efficient and healthy team.
This problem has been happening for a few days now.
Staying out all night, you frightened me to death.
How about drinking soda?
Excuse me. I'm your new neighbor, Jack. I just moved in.
What a miser! He cycles to school every day.
Well, your word overrules the file, sir. One moment, please.
No, most of the traditional festivals of the minority nationalities are not official.
sorry to hear that. It seems you have sacrificed a lot to work away from home.
How can we get up there?
I don't have to worry about rent. I live right here.
You have any idea why?
fine. I'll go vacuum. Let me know if you need any other help.
I have to talk to you!
No! Are you kidding me?
What information does that give him?
( after a while ) Good afternoon, Mrs. Smith. I called you just now.
Sure. Can I get to the central department stall this way?
I have an opening. Do you have an add sheet for me to sign?
Of course. But I suggest you buy a lipgloss. The shining effect is in.
Oh, it's the first of April, April fool's day
No. I ’ m a little worried about security. You never who ’ s trying to find out your codes and passwords. Aren ’ t you worry about that?
Let me see. Yes, we still have four left.
Yes, I ’ m aware of that.
Oh, really? I go to the rye every day.
They're going to give us back the seats?
Fully agree. I do enjoy the convenience though I am still a beginner in using Excel. The latest office equipment is more type-functional. It combines fax machine, copy machine and printer in one. It saves a lot of place, one machine instead of three.
There's a concert in Capital Theatre this Sunday.
Don't you have too much to do with him.
He is fine.
Then it's for Dad, isn't it? It's so unfair!
It's my pleasure. Shall we go there on foot? It's very near.
I do have the confidence, but I still worry about her.
Oh, I know. Thank you.
Did you open it before we left?
Sounds practical! To be honest, sometimes I feel puzzled about my future career. I am not sure if this job suits me the best though I work very hard on it and enjoy being a hard worker. I have always wanted to try something else and learn some new skills.
Oh, probably you've been working too hard.
Oh, moblogging is a combination of the word ' mobile ' and ' blogging '. It's another form of blogging. Users can publish blog entries to the web from a mobile phone or other mobile devices.
Thank you for all your help.
3 weeks. I am here on tour.
I'm not feeling well, doctor. I have a sore throat.
I can't dance to it. And I know you can't either. Because I've seen you try.
Could you give me a taxi to pick me up and take me to the airport before 1:00 p. m.?
Really? Wow with who?
It's on sale for $ 80. What do you think? Should I try it on?
You ’ re missing the point. It’s about respect. He treats us with such a patronizing attitude, as if we are not equal or not as serious as our male co-workers. It’s his attitude that needs to be changed, not just his words.
The minimum time period is three months. The longer the period, the higher the interest rate. If you withdraw your money before time is up, there are penalties.
I'm sorry, Mum.
You should have noticed unemployment insurance being deducted from your paycheck. Check your pay stubs.
Three or four o'clock?
Some people are wildly shooting on the next street. We must leave here as soon as possible!
Wonderful! I think that's a great idea How soon until we can make this happen? I can't wait!
Are you aware of the aspects of this position and do you feel you are qualified?
Where did you get that idea?
There are a number of open houses this weekend in your area. Would that okay with you?
Oh, such bad luck, sir. Can you please name the category of the book?
Yes. I'm going to stay with the same, a beer.
Talk it easy, Anna. You really don't hate me. do you?
OK, but make sure that everything is back by Sunday night at the latest.
Certainly, Sir. You do have a Current Account with us right?
Excuse me, but what are the Mbps mainly used for?
I bet it's May 5th.
Can I get it duty-free?
He has so many friends supporting him.
I've never used this place before.Can you give me some idea what I need to do?
It feels all right. But if it were a darker color, I'd like it better. This seems too light for winter. Do you think you could get me one?
It's called love is blind, I think.
Yes, coffee, please.
Hello, is that John?
Direct or non-direct?
What time was it scheduled for?
What kind of benefits are we talking about?
Yes, sir. My name is Ellen. How may I help you?
9 : OO. Don't worry, Miss, we have buses every 15 minutes.
What are your hobbies, Mr. Green?
You mean installation isn't included? I'm very surprised.
I am flying like a bird.
Yes, I really don't like it.
I'm not feeling well. I think I'm having a cold.
Tomorrow will be fine too, I think.
Hi, I was just coming to see you.But since you made the trek to my office, you get to go first.
Well, since you have come, do it now please?
What am I supposed to do about my bill then?
I took more than 10 subjects including Theoretical Economics, Political Economics, Western Economics, Statistics and so on. In addition to the courses of my major, I took minor courses too.
See all these black areas? That's tar built up in your Lungs.
Would you like to buy a motorcycle yourself?
We have a rather comprehensive subway system here. we can get almost anywhere rather quickly on the subway. Especially at this time of a day when the traffic is heavy.
When did the trouble start?
Wow! I'm so happy for you.
Ok, you could try the Peking wonton then.
I am 100 % certain.
Well, that seems easy enough.
Well, it has a lithium battery that lasts for 24 hours and it has a 160 second anti-skip mode for when you're playing sports.
Are your brother and sister still in school?
Oh, wonderful! You speak English! I need to exchange this foreign currency.
So it's time for the kids to get outdoors...
Grades are based on many things
Oh, I guess I didn't see it.
Yes, I see. I'll take it. Here's $ 200.
You did? Do tell me. I've spent all these months trying to learn something new about it, but I've made little progress!
What kind of battery is it?
Your future husband!
I see. Look, do you know what that emblem means? I've seen it so many times, but I don't know what it stands for.
You should take their advice. They know what's best for you.
Be quiet, Will you?
You really can't live without candy.
For the past 5 years, I have been in an Ericsson ( China ) Communication Co, Ltd.
well, I didn't realize that.
I see. Well, do you know anything near the hotel?
That's all right.Enjoy your flight.
Oh, Madam, buy what?
I feel a little overwhelmed by so many papers.
Are you nuts! I ’ m not going to run a red light!
It must be about 6 o'clock.
Oh, you read? Very good. Then, I think we should do something different today. I'll give you some privilege.
Well, I am telling you now.
500 yuan. And if you buy it today, there will be a 15 % discount for you.
Do you have an online edition of that magazine?
I have made a reservation for my breakfast last night. But I still haven't got it. I am so hungry now.
How did you like the movie?
Yes, you can have it delivered or filled at any location in our HMO.
Can you tell me the features of your baggage?
OK, Mum, when will you be back?
I'll pay for it with my VISA.
What kind can I get?
It fits well. I like it a lot. What do you think?
Ready? Say cheese.
Thanks. See you.
Sounds Like I'm missing out on a good time. Oh, well, there is always next year.
It's one of the highlights of the match.
What will you bring along when traveling?
Maybe, but I'm not sure.
I'm sure you will like it.
Oh, yes! I didn't think about that.Thank you for reminding me. How many days should we spend on a vacation?
In gymnastics. I'm pretty flexible. Look! I can even touch my toes!
Really? What jobs are they?
We're supposed to be meeting alone.
What are you saying?
She is still in a coma.
It's 212-331-7600.
I really can't work overtime. Because my husband has been ill recently, I must take care of him.
Since everyone is different, your personal trainer will help you find out all the exercise equipments that are suitable for you fitness level. Then you'll be taught all the necessary techniques to use these equipments and achieve your goal.
I think that I might.
Room service.May I come in?
A single room, preferably with a bath.
Let's hear the weather report later. What's the weather like in your hometown?
I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but it's that time of year again. Have you got your performance evaluations finished yet?
Please use the phone.
It's a great place to work. They give you fair pay and benefits, and a lot of room to grow. I think if they off you a job, you should definitely take it.
Where are we going to have a drink?
Try to be more careful in future. Look! You ’ Ve damaged the sign.
Thank you for your advice. I'll have a try.
Yeah, I ’ m going for a hike in the southern Rocky Mountains.
Well. 40,000 RIB that's really a lot of money. I will have to think about it.
Let ' s got out tomorrow night. We can go to a bar and try to find you a girlfriend.
Hey doc. Well, I think I might need glasses. I ’ m getting headaches, and I really struggle to see things that are far away. But I have always had 20/20 vision.
Oh, I see. In their culture women should put family first.
Good morning. sir. How may I serve you today?
Were you late for work this morning?
I ’ d better be going.
No, I will have to get an add sheet.
it's quite famous but don't you think it looks a bit old-fashioned?
Which language do you speak?
Gongshan Development Co., Ltd.may I help you?
Here we are, Car 11. Let's get in.
Do you want to go see a movie?
Now have you ever thought of going by express bus?
Make it special delivery, please.
Well, I ’ m glad I had a chance to see these samples, but I ’ m really not in a position to make a decision right now.
I'm looking for a gift for my daughter.
Yes, the swimming pool is right behind the building. Walk out of the door and you will see it.
That is a special coconut ginger chicken with rice dish.
I'm considering buying a second-hand computer for I'm short of money now.
I don't know.Maybe they are really crazy.
Our company now has n ombudsman?
I ’ ll give you their phone number. It’s 601 789 5634.
We shall be pleased to talk the matter over with you. You've done very well in fulfilling the agreement.
What are you going to do there?
He just stays in the kitchen and watches you. Before the Chinese New Year, the kitchen god tells his boss whether you were good or bad this year. Just like Lester does!
Have you seen the sales report for last quarter? Who do you think is our digest threat?
Certainly, here you are.
Cool down, man. Everyone is fed up with the rush-hour traffic. But life isn't really all that. You should take the initiative and make some changes first.
I am sorry to tell you that you failed in the job interview in our company.
Yeah, that's why I can enjoy myself in it.
Can ’ t you be more considerate? I need your encouragement.
I watched the movie Forrest Gump last night. And the question just lined in my mind.
Did you? I didn't hear you. It was too noisy.
What do you have?
Yeah, I worked as their customer support manager, which brought me a breadth of experience in both client care, and process management. I supervised and coordinated the customer support team as well as implemented new strategies to achieve better customer satisfaction.
True.You know, I First started dieting when I was ten.
maybe we can try Yuanyang pot this time. You can choose the non-spicy soup base.
Can I try this dress on?
It was close.To be honest, you had the lowest price by three cents per hint, but they didn't like your delivery date.Acme promised them almost a full month sooner.
Oh, does he play the piano?
no. those you have to provide for yourself.
Thank you. Doctor.
Finally we're on board!
What did I just say?
I heard you are going out with John?
They have lots of healthier food at Whole Foods.
Then any cell phone can meet your need because they generally have memories of over 512MB.
Has he moved to his new house yet?
We can do that if you like. Maybe next weekend.
You want the cards in alphabetical order using the last names?
No, I don't know what the curb colors mean.
Good morning. This is Paul Alexander calling from the Isis Advertising Firm. We need a car to the airport for Mr. Phillips.
I can't sleep...
What is this, the new Ford?
Who was the conductor at that event?
You ’ Ve got to be careful on the food you eat.
How about this one? It's the special local product.
What about these? Have you ever tried pig ’ s brains?
The traffic is not very heavy on this high way, is it? So I ’ m sure we ’ ll make it.
Sorry to interrupt, but my brother is still sleeping.
Great. Thanks for you advice!
You ladies look very elegant in black. But I don't want you to wear black in my honor for a long time yet to come...
It must have been stolen by the few thieves. I ’ ll get it back for you.
Do you know where that memo about office procedures is? I want to give my secretary a copy.
As an experienced interviewer, could you tell me what kind of behavior the interviewer hates most?
Do you think management should fire someone just because they gossip?
Both the new paint and new carpet will be finished by next week.
Yeah, that's a good idea. Let me try it.
Oh, don't mention it.
Fine.we we'll send it to you right now.
So how ’ s everything going for Christmas?
What do you mean too late?
Well, perhaps you should have a party and try to get to know them better. Maybe once you get to know them, they'll turn out to be more sensitive.
That sounds like fun. Let's do it.
Mike, you're late again.
Excuse me. I'd like to cash the traveler's check.
What is the salary while on probation?
My computer shows that it has already been mailed.
That's nice.
You should. Many Guiliners, especially the old and the young, will climb mountains here in the morning.
Why didn't my alarm go off today?
Hello, Shogun Restaurant.
yes, now that you mention it, I think we had a chemistry class together in high school.
Round trip, please.
People joke about the benefits of the increase in temperature, but it's not all good news. They've been experiencing a lot of deadly storms there as well.
Which university should I apply to?
Good morning. I need a new identification card.
Where are you heading now?
that ’ s gorgeous! Do they have it in a size 8?
Just because he gets on well with everybody?
Thanks. I found these new shoes earlier at the store.
I don ’ t think so. It’s kind of sore.
Am I correct in thinking that you are here for your annual physical?
Do you mean the exquisite pearl earrings?
Of course You get a coupon for every 3 bags of sugar.
Professor, could I make an appointment with you?
My roommate always wants to play it. But I told her to buy her own game.
What a pity that the traditional teahouses, as depicted by Lao She, keep fading away so quickly in this metropolis. It is not easy to find an old-fashioned teahouse that suits the ordinary people's spending power either. Teahouses of today all feature a cozy, comfortable environment, and high-quality services, but can easily cost you a good deal — just like a coffee bar.
Is there a medication you can prescribe to help me with my problem?
Alright, alright. Let me look at that pamphlet.Hmm. Alessio's Pizza Parlor. That's cool. I go there all the time.And Cosmo's Club. And 4 - D records. Alright. How much does it cost?
Maybe it is the most difficult period of my family have experienced.
Yes. I'm looking for an apartment, I'd like two bedrooms.
Why? You said I was hot when smoking.
I ’ m sure you ’ ll enjoy the trip. China is such a beautiful country.
What exactly is wrong with it?
They turn up around 4p. m. next Monday, and they check out on next Sunday.
He was so rich in the past. Maybe he ’ s regretting his past mistakes now.
How's your thesis going?
The weatherman predicts a fine day today.
Sure it is. This is 6666777.
It's fine. What beautiful scenery outside the window! I think this one will do.
Then, how about this one?
Well, why don ’ t we make it the thirtieth? We can set it up from three to five. That way, everybody can just go home afterwards.
It's just a regular inspection. Do you have anything to declare?
I have to make money to support the family, so I have little time left to share with you.
Oh, how nice.They ' re bright rooms and the house is very quiet.
You can never tell. He might do you in when he sees an angle in doing it.
What else can I do for you today?
Give me just a few seconds, sir, and I'll hand you your receipt. Here you are.
I remember I saw when I was dining in the Aidan Restaurant. When I paid the bill, I saw it in my handbag.
Everyone has his own habits, but these habits are not very good. The noise often spoils other people ’ s appetite.
I see. So our current policies are encouraging sick people to come to work, resulting in more sick employees.
So what kind of demands do they have? What are they asking for specifically?
Who ate the cookies that were sitting here?
No.You don't have to pay duty on personal belongings.
I'd like a little sugar, please.
OK, here is your registration card.
I don't stand a chance of passing the exam.
I have the same idea as yours.
More and more people are warm up to Yoga these days. Do you want to have a try?
Good idea! The pictures will illustrate the performance of our products vividly.
I got rid of that clunker. This is my new one.
You need to leave the cup in the cubby in the restroom, and the lab tech will get it from the other side.
All of the extensions are listed on the wall chart over there if you ever need help.
Then what time do you think he will be in?
Not too serious, but it'll take you some time to recover, so you'll need to be patient.
Wait a moment, please... Here is your bankbook. Keep it well please.
Have you find any job that you are interested in?
This is so awkward... what ones do I pick? What size is she?
You're right, we need to start making money soon, or at least manage to break even. But I think that the market is slowly beginning to heat up--sales are bound to pick up any time now.
I'm going to help him.
How about Saturday morning?
Good morning. What's the matter with you?
No wonder when I pass your room, I always hear your laughter.
Thank you.Thank you for the trouble you've taken.
My goodness! You ’ re kidding!
Have you ever seen such a nice house?
But Day. I'm not sleepy.
really? that's interesting!
You'd better leave her alone.
They want to travel to Europe next year, and will visit us at the same Ae.
OK, here are some of our most popular perfumes.
Yes, he stole a plane in Canada and flew into the U. S.
Then I can buy my own car.
That doesn't sound like a good choice for today though. Let's order!
Is the water causing any damage?
Brandy, I am supposed to participate in an interview tomorrow.
Well, it's a secret.
Where did you get your fantastic recipes?
Wow, this place is quite different from ten years ago when I first came to China.
I think that I will.
What happened to you last night? You didn ’ t show up.
Oh, yes, your parents live there, don't they?
I'll go in time, thank you.
I suppose so. We ’ re both friendly and easy-going.
Yeah, I don ’ t have to pay for a space on the street.
Well, that's too far.Can you change some money for me?
Just call her Lisa, Mary. She's cooking dinner.
They have really good chow mein.
The fragrance of plum blossoms comes from the hard coldness.
Yes. I'd like to see one of those ties.
I see. It's interesting that there is also a parrot in my English book. His mane is Polly.
What experience have you had that qualifies you for this position?
Because Beijing University is the best university in China and I'm sure I am one of the best students.
no way. I will be scared out of my wits.
I will. Bye, mom.
Let's have a look. What is this? Where are all the grades?
Hi Joe. You met my new assistant, right?
It doesn't take much time. I ' m used to tidying up my room myself.
Thank you! Your cheeks are as red as a tomato! Are you shy?
I think I may try to eat a little better.
Why do you want to be an insurance agent?
Now, the effort pays off. You have accomplished something.
Always be honest with your answers. The interviewers really do want to know if you will be a good fit for them.
Sure. I have all kinds of tools. Just ask. I ’ ll be happy to get them for you.
Well, Vince dropped off some sales reports for you.Said you signed a big deal with HomeSupplies.com.
I feel that history is about to be made, and I want to be a part of it.
My som was lost. I told him to stand rooted to the spot when I went shopping, but he ignored it.
Would you travel around the world if you had the money?
Well, I don't know about the profit part yet. But I am really having fun!
I would like to get some meat today.
I mean very short. shorter than It’s now.
My name's Donald Eakins.
The doctor said I should be good enough to return next week.
You're telling me! There are thousands of people here.
That's good. I think they must like them.in recently years, light industry have be developing in Standley, and place a credible role in our industry sister.these industry including leather, bikes, household electric products, clocks, sporting goods and so on.many of them are very popular at home and abroad.
yes. There were always so many people. After taking the subway during the rush hour, you ’ ll envy sardines in their cans.
Sure, Please wait a moment.
How long was she employed with your company?
Okay, thank you very much for your help.
4.5 %, that's good. How much money do I have to keep in it to get that rate?
Me too. I ’ ll write to you once I get settled. But I have so much to do. You might have to wait a while. But I really will write to you. I love to write letters. I think It’s more meaning than the emails even than the phone call.
Glad to meet you, Mrs.Tina.
Alright. We are out of everything.
I haven ’ t found one that satisfies my demands yet.
Oh, I understand.
When talking you should focus your eyes on the interviewer in order to closely watch his or her expressions.
That doesn't sound pretty.
That happens in many places. In my city, there is a very good drug rehabilitation programme. The police and courts are also tough on people who commit crimes, but I don ’ t know if that ’ s the reason for
What happens if I am not satisfied with my purchases?
I wonder if I can charge this call to my hotel room.
What about you? You spend as much or more money on your razors, after shave, cologne and gel! Not to mention how much you spend on clothes and...
I feel like having a Coke.
Once in a while we have visitors from abroad and I would like to be able to ask my secretary to take them shopping and sightseeing.
Have you got any wine or spirits?
I love going to live gigs. Are there any good local bands playing around here that you'd recommend?
Wonderful. Will we have any free time there?
I'll come see you tomorrow.
So how have you been lately?
Yes. So you'd better dress warmly before you go out.
I'll take it, I'd also like to buy some chocolate.
If you aren ’ t there, we will use our master key to get in and check things out.
Come have a look, I received many beautiful e-cards. They are from my friends, all over the world. Christmas wishes for all my friends.
I'm just browsing, thanks.
Hi, Paul. I haven't seen you for a long time.
What do you mean by a cast?
I wonder which looks more lustrous.
I hope so, do you have a shopping skirts? something i could wear working in a ban?
Yes, I think the reason is that there is a big lake, and many trees in the Resort.
If you were choosing a person for this job, what kind of individual would you select?
Just an animal? But it has life too. If you want a tattoo, get one. It's your choice because you want it. But has anyone asked the fish if it wanted one?
Or do something that shows we have spent time thinking about them.
Can you put down a $ 2,000 deposit, and I'll talk to my manager, see what we can do.
I see. So, it's not for your company, it's for the prospective partner?
In my country football is brand new, so I never learned the game when I was younger.
I will do.
It's true, sir.
You really have to?
You ’ ll get bonuses at the end of each year according to your achievements. Besides, we offer you 1 % commission on all your sales.
Our speciality back in South Africa is wholesale supplying of screws, bolts, nuts, pins, studs, and that kind of things.
Hi, could you help me find a place where I could buy some lunch?
Sure thing. What are your plans for the evening?
I wonder if you could have ensured here.
Which bus should I take to railway station?
Any other facilities?
Yes. This way, please. Our shortbread is in a variety of flavors, such as almond, walnut, lotus seed, etc. And different packaging has different weights. We can make packages within a reasonable range of any size you require.
That's exactly my understanding.
Oh, I'll probably just stay at home.
You do realize that I will need to rip down your wall to get to the pipe, right?
Or we can call you tomorrow coming.
I can't even imagine you snorkeling!
I'd love something spicy. Maybe we could get some Sichuan Hotpot.
I will, sir. I'm really very sorry.
I'll hold you to that.
I need to get home.
We need to solve the problem of air pollution before we destroy the atmosphere. There ’ s lots of clean, modern technology, but companies in developed countries say It’s expensive. Developing countries put more emphasis on economic development than on environment protection.
I ’ ll keep that in mind. Thank you for coming in today. We ’ ll be in touch.
I think so, too. What do you think about that I write a letter of inquiry to the company?
Do you have any idea for this vacation?
Yes, that's what I need.
It’s a beautiful city, but I think It’s become too touristy. How about going to a cosmopolitan city like Shanghai or Hong Kong?
What are you doing, Victor?
It is. You must be new here. I do my shopping here regularly, once a week.
How do I know if it's ripe?
Yeah, that would make things a lot easier.
Smells good! What ’ s for breakfast?
That's a good idea. So far, we have several agents abroad.
Just come over here, sir. First you need to sign in and get your photo nametag.
It's your fault for mixing the two broths!
Thank you. I'll try my best. By the way, when do you take over the new position?
Well, I ’ m afraid it isn ’ t. It’s a bit too well done and rather tough. Would you mind changing?
Maybe it's a good things. If you don't have to go to Hong Kong, you can take a break and take things easy for a while.
Well, it's about how an immigrant girl achieve her dream in America. It's a sitcom but really quite smart and really funny. I think you'd like it.
How do you think about our boss?
Oh, it will be so expensive! I have a special medical plan, and I can only see one doctor.It will cost me a lot of money to see another doctor.
I don't think so. You must compare our price with that it other export houses. I'm sure our offer is in line with the prevailing market price level.
Yes, this mattress is very good. It's pretty firm. The mattress I ’ m now sleeping on is saggy.
No, we don ’ t. We wish we had one. That ’ s the only thing we wanted, but don ’ t have. The area is very nice and the neighbours seem friendly.
Yeah. It is incredible! Is it the work of Qi Bakshi?
Yes, I can remember it very well that there used to be all sorts of animals and birds. But nowadays you just don't see the birds that you used to see around here.
I will check to see what my budget is.
Very well. That can be arranged.
Here! Here! Use my card!
Who was the best teacher that you ever had?
Yes, show me your tickets please.
Oh, I see, by the way, my name's Mary.
Yes, I got it. Come on, Benjamin, don't let him get into the paint.
Well, you know I studied marketing in America.So maybe the thought of going back there to promote our brand is kind of exciting to me. I'd love to be part of the team.
Don't you agree with me that in the long run moderate prices we bring about large sales and more profit?
I've seen the British version and loved it, but have never seen the American version.
She cannot get in Dutch with him. He is her boss, you know.
This one is of my wife and me on the beach, and this one is our daughter Emily standing next to my wife.
Those were the good old days, sir, indeed.
You're always welcome. Anything else can I do for you, sir?
Make it three cups. Here comes Harry.
Ah, yes, the room is too cold for me. I feel rather cold when I sleep. Can you turn off the air-conditioning?
I think first of all for first-time students, coming and living on campus in dormitories can provide a certain level of security.
Really? I like rainy days. The moisture in the air is good for my skin.
How about mileage and gas?
You must be joking!
Well, as you know Rebecca, in journalism work hours are not exactly nine to five. You could be on call at any time. We do have to work very unsociable hours at times.
Would you mind if I use your tape-recorder?
do you really think that global warming Wil destroy Earth some day?
( Sound of Allen singing ) Hey, Allen has a really good voice! He sounds like Johnny Dean!
I've never seen you so worked up. what did she do to you?
Would you recommend going there for a few days?
My GPA is pretty similar to yours. I have a 3.1 now because of the stupid econ class.
Yes, someone is coming to get me.
Yes. Let ’ s sleep on the sand. That ’ s most exciting!
Out of the frying pan and into the fire.
Well, you better make sure you pay it off.
Yes, it was. The clock on the wall says eight to seven.
Hmm, 250NT is... 8 dollars?!! And you can't even eat them? You're crazy!
Here's a model of our latest design. What do you think of it?
Thanks. Was there a mina bar in the room?
You are so right, sir. The clock just struck nine.
Just take your clothes off from the waist up and put this gown on, with the opening in the back.
OK, it's not far from here.
I believe she was right. You must know that fried foods contain a lot of fat.
I prefer the old style of dance because I enjoy holding a pretty girl like you closely.
This is Room 320. Can I have a morning call tomorrow?
How many in your party?
Of course. I almost missed my own wedding.
Summers are hot and usually lasts a long time. Winters are short, but cold, wet, and windy. I love the summers in my city, but I hate the wintertime.
Is that you, Dave? Oh, my gosh! The backstabber who left us to work for the evil WebTracker!
Could I have your Savings Book and the money, please. You are making a deposit of 800 RIB, is that correct?
Excuse me. Where are you going?
Hey, Leo. How come you look so terrible? What ’ s going ’ on?
I can give you a 10 % discount.
Here is the notice.
Do you know where a Moroccan restaurant is?
In the meantime, do I have to pay for this charge?
Yes.With the 600 - second digital memory, l can record my voice and send it using voice message mode.
Oh, you have a crush on someone, don't you? Maybe those are wedding bells in your eyes!
You are really career minded.
Make sure that you don't go anywhere until you clean your room.
That's not bad. It could be a short-term alternative. Your mum can look for another one when the market improves. Things will work out eventually.
The bright people will remember it forever.
I want to get some pie.
The wire in your phone might have gotten rusty. Could you bring your phone into our office? We'll clean it for you.
Oh, do you really like it?
"This is an especially famous one. It says "" May the passing days bring you health and longevity. May this season of renewal find you basked in riches. """
Don't be a smarty-pants. It's for Grandma Wang.
Of course, there're too many people.
Let me show you to the cashier's. It's 905 yuan in total.
There was a stop sign back there that you didn't stop for.
I really like the apartment, but I was wondering if I could change some things.
Graduate Management Admission Test, it contains three parts
have you filled out an application form?
I'd love to get a pie.
Could you go with me to the movies on Friday night, instead?
Well, have a great time!
Excuse me. can you tell me where Main Street is?
Yeah, it's not that long of a trip.
It is ok with me. So I will be arriving at your office around 2 fifteen PM. Do you have a projector in your room? I would like to show you some related charts
Yes, of course. Well as you can see from the resume I ’ m 27 and grew up in Brooklyn, New York, although our family moved to London when I was quite young, at around sixteen.
I don't know yet. My wife's going to her mother's for a couple of weeks. She Livesay the sea, you know.
And what is the most important point?
Of course. How many people are there in your party?
But don't you like this place? I remember when we came to see it we thought it would be lovely.
It doesn't cost me as much to wash here.
I'm pretty tired these days.
I'll appreciate it very much.
Really? Have you ever tried Moroccan?
Yeah, me too. Did you hear about Ted?
So let's go and catch earth worms!
Bruh, that this movie was on point.
It certainly was a great party. It’s a pity that a glass and a plate got broken and someone spilled a drink over here.
I'm glad you enjoyed it. It's had long run, but the house has always been full.
Sorry, it had been sold out.
Don ’ t say things like this. Please be confident. I think you still have the chance to win her love, unless you don ’ t love her anymore.
No, I usually have to stand.
You are too picky.
When was America discovered, Tony?
I am not the guilty party
Actually, i popped in them last night.
It looks fine. Is this an inclusive tour?
How long did it take you to become an auditor?
Terrific! It is also a good exercise to keep me fit.
Let me think! Pills for carsick, traditional medicine for cold, some painkillers and something like that.
No, it's an express.
Have you ever sung with a karaoke?
About one day. It arrives in Dalian at 10:00 a. m. tomorrow.
Because I can make many different kinds of pictures from one negative. That's more, but that saves money.
What kind are you going to make?
While staying in love is even better.
I am studying at Beijing University. I major in Civil Law.
That sounds delicious and nutritious.
So you have all the news on broadcast?
That is correct.
I get lost in this library.
What size do you wear?
What do you do in winter?
How do you know? You haven ’ t seen her since high school. I guess your evenings, whatever you do with them, are just too valuable.
Well, they had enough harvests for the next winter and celebration 。 They decided to have a big feast for the natives, giving thanks the land, and everyone for the foods, healthy and new lives.
Oh my God, don't you know that such living environment is not healthy?
Yes, that sounds like a good idea. She might not get the other message in time.
no, but my girlfriend has mono.
No, I hate limousines. They're gas guzzlers.
You really have bad luck, don't you?
It's the holidays! Everybody knows how hard it is to get tickets!
Oh, are you? And what are you studying?
I ’ ll come down and watch you play some day, and see what It’s like.
Yes. We ’ ll close this position posting at the end of this month.
Just a moment, please. Your name?
How long will it take? Could you repair them while I wait?
No. But I write to them often.
Anyhow, I'd like to change our room.
No, nothing in particular.
Sorry, sir. We can't cash the checks for you without your passport.
I'm here for the backpack you announced several minutes ago.
What are you being charged with?
Can I interest you in an appetizer to start out?
Ok, we will. How do you get around in the evenings?
The environmental review board has a team on it now.Hopefully we'll know more by the end of the week.
I wouldn't say so.
Excuse me. Do you have this in blue?
Oh, boy, I hate to say this, but I really have to leave now.
Won't he be surprised!
No problem, you're welcome.
We appreciate your good intention and your effort in pushing the sale of our slippers. As you know, the demand for this item in your market is quite substantial. However, according to our records, the total amount of your order last year was moderate, which does not warrant an agency appointment. Unless you increase the turnover we can hardly appoint you our sole agent.
I would like it with no salt, please.
Then I'll have to borrow it.
ln this size, we sell it for 53.95.
For whom? Cortex?
have you bought a present for jim ’ s birthday yet?
Do you have all these qualities?
Don't you think it's about time you got them working properly?
This kind of school is good at helping people to improve their English.
Hmmm.It wouldn ’ t be easy, but if the discount makes it worthwhile, we can consider it.How much of a discount would that give us?
We'll have to. We'll rehearse on the 1st and have the wedding on the 2nd.
He had barely survived the third audition and finally got a chance to advance in the contest. Fortunately, in the third audition, he has won popularity among the audience. And that's when I started to notice him.
Yes, an efficiency is a small apartment.Usually one large room and a small bathroom.There is often a small kitchen too. So it's good for one person.
May I recommend you Tsingtao beer?
No, it's enough.
It is. But buying a house is very important. So it takes time.That ' s why we haven't done it yet. It's very troublesome.
That would work out great! Why don't we call and get a reservation?
We look forward to a further extension of our pleasant business relations.
Rita. Nice to meet you.
For nearly four years.
That ’ s fabulous. Thank you.
Would you show me your notice?
OK, let ’ s go check out the kitchen next.
What are you going to do now?
Excuse me. Could you tell me where the post office is?
When would you want to leave?
How long do you want to stay?
Nothing. I am just asking.
Could you project what you would like to be doing five years from now?
Which one is hers?
How about these?
Are you familiar with the PRC Financial and Tax Regulations?
They must be popular again this season.
They're not cheap, but neither is their furniture.
I ’ m sorry sir but, what exactly did you do?
Yes, there is one at Sanyuan Bridge. It is a famous restaurant in the city.
Most willingly. It's 600 dollars per ton.
Hello, the International Hotel. May I help you?
Ok, I see. Thank you!
All right. Thanks.
Darling, this dress is for you. I hope you like it.
Do I owe you anything for the sauce, pepper and napkins?
It's easy. If you do exercise everyday, you can make it, too.
Is that me?
All right, what do you want to listen to?
They tell me how much your heart is working at rest and when pumping blood.
Thank you. Bye-bye!
We planned our wedding for next May.
Yes, you are supposed to pay it on time. If you don't furnish a tender bond on time, your tender will not be considered. Besides, you also should provide derailed engineering of the good.
Don't worry, Mary, I've got you covered.
What ’ s to get ready?
I want to buy a cell phone for my daughter.
Well, we have always dreamed of owning our own home, but real estate 1 in this area is extremely expensive.
Is there anything valuable in it?
What is my doctor testing me for?
What're you going to wear today?
Though the AC has the air-purifying function. I ’ d still rather have fresh air than smoke. Are you okay with that?
May I have your flight No., PLS?
Do you have a room available for this weekend?
Taking a yoga class or learning some relaxation techniques can help you cope with your stress.
And that will be 10:15 pm Tokyo time.
Would you like to come to our party?
I ’ d prefer coffee if you don ’ t mind.
Here is 200.
You'd get plenty of sleep for you work so hard.
Most movies are. Another problem for me was the film was dubbed in German with English subtitles.
This is your song. I picked it for you.
To begin with, I have to use chopsticks.
Honey, have you ever heard that there are a lot of stray cats now.
I've got a really bad headache and my stomach hurts.
It must be interesting.
that is to say, you like all genres except for horror movies.
I would like to buy a ticket to New York please.
Which bus should I take from PHS to Sons?
it's 0-7- 7-8- 7-3- 6-7- 6-8- 8.
Maybe he is trying to find a job. When he finds one, everything will be settled.
I saw that in the guide.It looks like they have different restaurants and different kinds of architecture.Do you want to go?
Later this month. I can't wait!
Excellent! Our company has more than ten years of experience in the adventure tourism and sports field. Let me show you some options. This is our most popular choice, our river guides will take you
I know that there is hot chocolate in the kitchen and some new Cds just waiting for us.
Can you tell me about it?
I'm sorry, Ms.Jenkins is away from her desk.She has already left for lunch.Would you like to leave a message for her?
I guess I'd buy that...
Where is it made?
How long have you had this toothache?
Very good. You can pick up your order in one week.
Yes, we do. What kind of room would you like?
Sure. I just need to do one other job first. How about if I come up around 11:30?
Certainly. Here you are.
I can just trade with him, thank you.
What about our luggage?
Why don't you ask your husband to help you with it?
If you like the outside, you are going to really love the inside.
that may be true. But I ’ m sure you ’ re able to find a balance between them. Why not try it?
Sorry, not yet! can you help me to select the dress? i don, t what i should wear to fit thinner party.
I guess so. It would be nice to know why she did this though.
I agree with you. But now we have to wait. The sky is overcast, and it is very sultry. I fear a thunder storm is brewing.
Cheer up. You have got me at least.
Why did you apply for the position?
She doesn't have an ounce of fat on her face.
That must be Conrad Reeves.
Many children are learning drawing, dancing, swimming and so on in their spare time. You can follow suit.
Yes, I like it. I'm going to get it.
I've been chosen to plan the next family reunion.
Of course I miss Grandma, too. I bet she ’ s gonna teach me how to play Mahjong! Hey, Dad, are you going to buy me firecrackers this year? We ’ re going to have the best fireworks! I ’ m really looking forward to lighting them!
Which would you rather have, beef or chicken?
I think that they get a pretty good payoff.
This is your room. What do you think of it?
This will not interfere with my work. I promise you that.
Maybe this is God's will.
Your vintage clock?! I just paid sixty-five dollars for it.
What classes did you have?
We can make shipment within one month from receipt of order.
I think she is in her room putting a little something together for you to take to school with you.
Hey, she is not worth it. Forget her.
I'd like a beef-burger, a French fries and a milk shake, please.
Mom, what were movies like when you were a kid?
You must show where and when you tried to look for work. If you earned any money, you need to tell them about it.
I love being photographed! If I were famous, I ’ d do interviews for all the top magazines, like cosmo and elle.
Yes, I am looking for a skirt. What's in fashion now?
I think he's got too much on his plate.
Yes, of course. Thank you very much.
I'll go to the Yellow Stone Park, and Great Canyon.
Three thousand US dollars.
Please go to Counter No. 2, the foreign exchange counter. It's over there.
You used to do this by yourself?
Not much, just heading over to the shooting range. You wanna come?
don ’ t say that yet. A new project could suddenly appear.
Oh, It’s right downstairs. I'm going there myself. Just follow me.
We give you quotations on the same basis as we quote in the domestic market.
Well, from experience we can predict the lifespan of different components. We try to replace components before they fail or wear out. This prevents the equipment from breaking down. It also saves us a lot of trouble!
I have been a Production Manager.
What are the benefits?
Thanks, Tim. Nice meeting you, too.
Certainly. Would you like your coffee with your dinner or later?
Hi, Bill. I ’ d like to take the apartment I looked at yesterday.
I am dieting, so could the chef prepare the food with no extra sauce?
We were talking about Wednesday evenings at the library, from seven to eight.
What was that all about?
Its very helpful. The course has let me into a world of literature. I read so many great literatures.
I can understand that. Let me see if I can clarify some things for you.
easier said than done.
Well, there is that, yes.
why? I thought Americans were supposed to be more open than that.
Okay, so Friday at what time?
Just take them for your good friends and have a talk with them as we do, make sure you don't lose your temper.
My boss wore a real stupid tie to work today. Can you guess why?
Gee! I don't know what to say! Thanks so much.
That ’ s it for today. Thank you.
What do you say we stop in at that Burger King over there and grab a bite?
The one with a very big nose.
We welcome good business. Anyhow, we know you must get tired by the flight, so we arrange a meeting tomorrow. Today you can have a good rest.
I'd like to. But I'm not myself today.
Wow! You must have been pretty far away from the city.
Good day. Welcome to IBA, what can I assist you with today?
Yes, it changed.
No, you can return it to any branch of our company.
( Smile ) I can ’ t believe this for It’s been 20 years since we got married.
Yes, she does. She works at home.
OK, I'm in. When do I start?
No. I ’ m serious. I ’ m going to quit my job.
We produce household cleaning products - detergents and so on. They are all phosphate-free, which minimises damage to the environment.
Really? What was the matter?
No, I don't have a ride yet.
Let me see... at 6:15 am local time tomorrow.
Half an hours later.
Absolutely. I ’ m a great mechanic.
No, it's the number fifty-eight.
Well, you know how important a clean house is to your grandma.
Do you want a taxi?
I like the kid.He ' s so lovely.
Croissant for appetizer and two beef steaks for dinner.
Room service. What can I do for you?
I'm a freelance English teacher. How about you?
Good, May I have your name, please?
Good heavens, am I really? I'm so sorry, I didn't notice.
No, I receive this as a birthday present, but the price tag is still on the skirt though. Will that be OK?
Here is the wine list.
My goodness! My silk dress is shrunk. How did you wash it?
I'll first get further information about our goals, ways, counterparts and management, etc.. Then I ’ ll make my plan. And then I ’ ll go with all my effort to see it is realized.
You just put quarters in the machines.It ' s easy.
Can you lend me your car?
I ’ ll just have to put up with it.
No way. I'd rather go to another movie house.
Would you please fill some gas for me?
The counselors were so nice too. It was the best summer ever. Except for all those mosquitoes!
I went to the cafeteria and bought it.
I see. Batwoman married the boss?
Welcome. What can I do for you, Madam?
OK then. I don't want to put you in trouble.
Your total comes to $ 7.
Oh, they're fine, still very active and enjoying their retirement.
No. I used to have one though. Once I started using my bicycle to get around, I found that I didn't really need it.
There, you only have two ways for visiting.
Don't worry about it. Practice makes perfect. I will lend you some listening materials, so that you can practise more before the exam. I believe you can pass the exam with good preparation.
We ’ Ve invited all our sophomore friends from school.
How much is the monthly sticker?
Sis, why did you ask me to come to this bargain market? It's so crowded, and you can't find anything that you really want.
That's how it works.
This is Soft, may I speak to Lamely?
I'm from Canada, originally.
Thank goodness we're not rich and famous!
I need to pay my bills.
It's marvelous! The lawn looks like a green carpet, and the garden with so many lovely flowers.
This is the house I want to rent.
I forgot my cigarette today. Do you have another one?
Hey, your Chinese is coming along!
So, is it actually paper at this stage?
A laboratory assistant helps to maintain scientific equipment, keep a check on the supplies in the store, and prepare the chemicals for experiments.
Have you taken the key to the door?
I am cooking now!
B :: Nice to meet you, Mr. Wilson.
I'd like to cancel my reservation on flight MS701 to Warsaw on the 23rd.My name is Michael.
Oh, Goodness, please not again.That ' s what we did last week.
I know what you mean, there wasn't old action movie next. I think you won't like it.
Really? I love eccentric people.
Yes, of course. Here are all the tour routes we have to Italy.
I'd have to say yes and no on that. I don't get a big end-of-the-year bonus like I did at Lemans but I get to take classes for free if I want to. I've always wanted to get a graduate degree so I'm taking classes now to do that.
If you were to take on a double major, what would be your first choice?
Yes. I'm fond of playing the chess and I'm very keen on playing cards.
oh, really. That is great news. What does he look like?
Yes, let's go in.
That's no problem.
No, I'd like the fish.
I think our users have the impression that your prices are always much too high, compared with those of other supplies.
Good morning, Mary!
Can you get it?
How about a china vase?
Specifically, I'm talking about the little things, like soap and shampoo.
Let's post on the Internet, too. Will get a better response. I'll post the ads. I know some good sites.
Sounds easy. But how can I apply to practice? I am thinking about applying for more reimbursement for my mobile bill. But I am afraid our boss will turn me down.
Are they filed alphabetically?
I know several. But wouldn't it be easier to take the shirt back and exchange it for the right size?
Oh, if I hadn't moved here I would never thought of changing it.
Sure, no problem. You can call me any time you are alone from now on.
Everyone wants to earn a lot of money. Don't you think so? What's more, I am interested in money management.
what I have to give you a hospital for an ex-treat.
I could, but where's the fun in that?
Yes. Is there anything you can give me to get rid of it, doctor?
Please wait a moment and fill out the order form. And we'll send you our sample.
Do you mind going on frequent business traps?
They look very uncomfortable.
Is this absolutely necessary?
So, how did you become interested in it?
wow! You're going to Tibet?
I don't think so. It's brand-new.
Mom, it's so terrible. Water went down into my throat and I almost got drowned.
That is not for a while. His birthday is only in August.
The heating controls don't work anymore, so it always feels like it's about 100 degrees in the car — even in the summer!
so, how should we go to the theatre?
It was a rather big mistake. When you work as an investment adviser, one small mistake can cost the company millions.
What about vegetables?
have you thought of moving at all Sarah?
I'm afraid this flight is all booked up.
Then what about you? How are you getting on with your boyfriend?
I know a shop selling this kind of sweaters.
But that doesn't stop me from drinking. Ahahah.
"It wouldn't be considered rude behavior if he doesn't even take a single drop. But he'd better receive the teacup with both hands and bow his thanks when the cup is brought before his face. When the host pours hot water into his cup, he may also choose to tap his index finger on the table, meaning "" Thanks "". No matter if he likes it or not, it is impolite if he doesn't even lay a finger on the cup."
What kind of pain? Sharp pain, dull pain or severe pain?
OK. I will send a maid to your room right now.
Hey Annie, who is this picture of?
That ’ s a good idea. You are a fireman and it can be a dangerous job.
Morning, Lee. How are you?
She's doing great, she's getting her confidence back, and her self-esteem, has improved drastically.She ' s very happy.
Actually, I'm calling to complain about your service. The computer I bought last week is faulty.
Is it gonna hurt?
Of course. I want to buy some night cream for my mom, and some masques for myself.
I see. That sounds fine. Until what time are you open?
Yes. We married on July 20 ten years ago.
you are welcome. Come in early tomorrow and I'll show you how to do the scheduling.
Sure.Which one?
Hooray! I can play football with daddy. Mom and sister can play badminton.
Did you land safely?
Hi, I'm calling about the ad in the paper.
Which ad would that be?
You are right. What kind of shoes should I wear?
John hasn't got married up to now.
What's your name?
She probably wouldn't even recognize me. She's probably married.
Sure. Kind acknowledgments can show one's good attainment.
I am afraid I can't finish typing it this afternoon. When will you use it tonight?
Oh, I see. I need more practice before I take the driving test.
Yes. Have you ever been in one of his classes?
All right. Here are the traveler's checks and money.
Hi, is Heather there please?
I think I'll Ty the crisp deep-fried chicken.
Here are all the wallets with various designs. How about this one? It is quite fashionable.
She was a very controversial leader. Are we going to visit the famous tower of London later?
Great! What time?
I'll see you there at 9pm.
Yeah, I think so. Oh, by the way, I need to ask you something.
How did you get around over there? Did you rent cars?
Singing? At the subway exit? Oh, it sounds like someone needs some money.
I need to talk to you about something.
Keep it. I'm buying tonight.
Just go to the end of the store. And it will be on your right. We have all the ice creams and frozen foods back there in the freezers.
I schedule my appointments from two to four on Saturday ; what works best for you?
Your cat spends most of the day outdoors ', right? Do you kino where she goes?
He took all my things, but he didn't hurt me.
Excuse me. Miss, what does the doctor say about me? When can I be discharged?
No. She was right. I was too nervous. I kept thinking, What if we blow it?
yes. The government has banned price hikes in some key industries like energy.
I'm impressed.
I don't think we have very much money for supplies, but we have a little.
Well, easily, It doesn't work. It doesn't even start probably.
Oh, that's quite convenient. Thank you.
I am awfully sorry. Please tell us about the stains before the dry-cleaning next time.
What about your computer skills?
Will you be at the family reunion next year?
I'm Alice. I guess I'll have to be your mother for today.
Ah, it is clear enough to send.
Yes, that's all right. I want to enroll in the course.
Both the green tea and the black tea are good for our health. And I usually refresh myself with a cup of tea.
It's always something, isn't it? Let me think about this for a second.
I don't really know where I want to go. I am having trouble thinking of a particular restaurant.
OK, I will blow.
Do you know this song?
Listen. If you refuse to go in, Conrad will be offended.You don't hate gay people, do you?
Www, I don ’ t know how you can eat your eggs like that! Ever since I was small, I ’ Ve had eggs and soldiers.
Please hold on a minute, offer your call to Mr Richton.
I agree. I like guys that can make me laugh.
Well, actually I'd like to buy some vitamins for my son. He's five months old. Can you suggest any?
Oh. That's simple enough.
Do you want to try the new coffee here?
Where do you intend to go?
I'm one of them.
That ’ s out for me. I already have a standard meeting on Thursdays at 9:30 a. m. How about Wednesday afternoon at 2
They don ’ t now, but most of them did originally. There ’ s picture of the pentagon in the united states. It’s very distinctive with its five sides.
I can't wait!
We'd like to have typical Chinese food.
I usually ask them if they want some food and then give them something to eat. I figure that if they're homeless, they're probably hungry.
Oh, listen, I can ’ t even remember. Ok, on my birthday, I wandered into over 30 rooms, for a joke, sort of and he was there, and we started chatting...
What do you think of your English?
Oh, you may call him Uncle, or Henry.
it's ok. It seems we have a lot in common.
Thanks for the invitation. I will!
Oh, how annoying!
The maid has just delivered some laundry to my room.But it's not mine at all.
Do you have the meeting report ready?
Very good! Let's not forget that the stomach is the one that breaks down our food and our intestines process that food and then expel the waste. Are we forgetting anything?
ok. So I turn right at the traffic lights. Then?
I've been invited over to a friend's. And you?
Yes, it's still vacant. Are you interested in seeing it?
That sounds like a good idea. How often would you like to do it?
What size house would you like?
Yeah. They suit each other. A perfect match between a man and a girl.
Formulate a satisfactory answer based on your specific situation.
Harry was angry last night.
Yes, sir. We promised that.
Terrible. It must be something serious. You two are such close friends.
What does he look like? Is he handsome?
L / C stands for ' letter of credit '. This is necessary for trade between two countries. A Letter of Credit is quite literally that — a letter addressed by the buyer's bank to the seller's bank stating that they could vouch for their good customer, the buyer, and that they would pay the seller in case of the buyer's default. Nowadays, it's sometimes used for domestic trade too.
Five hundred yuan.
I really wish I went to the game.
There has been talk at school about canceling the concert.
Oh! What bad luck! How can I get to the Theater?
Why is that?
I would like to open an account today.
Not everyone. But a lot of people do, especially the young. It's a fine place to spend an evening with friends or to make some new friends.
Have you always been on this site?
Did your meal meet with your approval?
If he promised to help you, I'm sure he will help. He's a man of his word.
Oh I fell over on the way to work.
Here's the survey report issued by the China Commodity Inspection Bureau. According to the report, the damage was caused by poor packing. Our surveyors also discovered some cracks on the surface of a number of other cases.
Okay, they ’ ll be ready for you in an hour.
Not much. I just wanted to see how you were. How ’ s married life treating you?
How long will it take us to drive to London?
indeed. Team work is highly valued in this new company. I like our boss too. He is easy to get along with treats everybody with respect and appreciation. He's highly respected by all his employees.
I had no idea.
It's so faraway.
Hmm Maybe you're right. But I can't stand all this green carpet here. And besides, I know how to paint. I will just cover everything with drop cloth. I won't get anything on the floor.
Good preparation will improve the effectiveness of the meeting. I am sure that your hard work will pay off.
Well, I understand how you feel, and we will try to do our best to help you. But first please allow me to send one of the housemaids to your room to look for it again thoroughly, just in case it's still in there. If she finds it, we will all be happy. If she doesn't, we will turn the whole matter to the police. But I must say that the hotel can't be held responsible for your loss. You should have locked your gold necklace away at the hotel ’ s safety box. If you had read your key card carefully, you would have realized that we specially warned you to do so.
I don't see anything wrong with it.
By the middle of October, I think.
Sure. What kind of skin do you have?
I think a company is a place to get work done. Certainly friendly, open relationships among all company employees is important, and I think an employee should be serious about his or her work responsibilities and have a professional relationship with the boss.
Fruit juice, cakes and refreshments, and everything.
When, did you say?
sure. I ’ d be happy to give you some hints and advice.
I tend to only eat grapes and apples.
Oh, that's good. We will come to our final decision based on your credit rating, the payment capability...
But I still have to tell her.
Only ten percent tax is included in the bill.
I can see it. The bus is stopping. I think we will be able to go inside.
that sounds fantastic! What time is it playing?
What's in the box?
I can still remember our first date.
You'll change your mind. Look at everyone in the world. They all break up and move on. The faster you understand this, the quicker you will recover.
how about this blue sweater?
No, I haven ’ t discussed my career plan with my present employer, but I am sure he will understand.
You've decided that you definitely want to purchase this particular one?
That ’ s a good idea. Remember that if the parents watch too much tv, the kids will probably follow suit.
It was boring. Just did my homework and practiced the piano.
Sure, no problem. Asking for leave again? You have been absent from class five times this semester.
What time shall we start?
You need to be able to say whom you worked for and when.
I just can't help it. Oh, look at Clive, he is really a big hit. They are definitely gonna win.
Would you like to come and have dinner with us on Friday?
Why didn't you go to school yesterday?
Hey Sarah, are you all right? You look upset.
What kind of books do you like?
Yes, I will have a cup of coffee.
I ’ ll do it for you.
Is there anything I can do to help? Just remember that I'm there for you if you want to talk about it.
We are sorry, but single rooms have been occupied.
I understand. Why would you like to join our company?
Would you like them delivered to you or can you come get them here?
What date would you like to depart, sir?
What's her outlook?
You hair is definitely fresh and shiner looking.
Happy to see you-too-Mike.How ' s your family?
That ’ s not a bad idea. I brought many plenty of books and things back with me last summer. That would be great resource material. Now if I can only remember where I put them.
This hotel could use some insecticide, but my time in New York was thoroughly delightful.
Sure! It's txyb@gmail.com.
That is of great concern to out clients. We aim to satisfy all claims within a month, but we can ’ t guarantee that
And the bank will offer you loans for twenty years!
Actually most of them are dirty. I haven't done laundry in a while. I usually wait until I can do it at my parent's house.
Thanks, that's would be lovely. You'r right, he is kind and nice looking.
Well, my mother came from a big family, and wanted to have one of her own. My father was an only child, and didn't really care about having a large family, but my mother talked him into it.
hello. Where are you headed today?
Is it urgent ( an emergency )?
Public schools are usually state funded, whereas private schools usually get their funding elsewhere.
Get in slowly, sweetie. You'll get used to it. I'm gonna go and make you some chicken soup.
yes, I graduated with a BA in English from Qingdao University.
Walk the sidewalk and please right-hand side.
That's why you should go there, If you don't dare to speak English owing to the fact that you are afraid of making mistakes, you simply will never learn English.
That's right. If you like hot dishes, you could try some.
Simple. We had personality clashes and there were too many cultural differences.
So how long has he here for?
Hello everyone, and welcome to our CPR for beginners course.First of all, does anyone know what CPR stands for?
I'm really sorry, but I seem to have misplaced your towel.
all right. But I think you ought to move soon.
That sounds fine.
That's understood.
I need it done today.
What else will they ask me?
I look like a nerd.
Your two hands hold the pole, stand on the board, the other foot steps back against the ground and controls well the balance of the body, then you can ride in the air. It has a feeling of surfing. You need not let other people teach you. Your fear will disappear quickly.
You do know that you can look online, right?
Perhaps we could go to the library festival that's going on at the local bookshop.
First we will go to the city centre and stop for something to drink. Then we will visit the University Museum.
That could explain all his stomachaches. He's trying to hide it from us.
Really? Does swimming have other advantages?
Nothing different from a secretary's common responsibilities. However, you know, our company is an international trade-oriented company, can you handle English papers and write English correspondence?
And here is the menu. I'll come back soon.
Recycling is big business these days, isn't it?
Oh, I don't know.Of course, gasoline costs a lot these days.
Yeah, and the funniest thing was, that he jumped on to his chair and started shrieking like a girl. You had to be there! Everyone was staring and laughing... it was hilarious!
You turned 18 in an election year.
When you are able to find work and get paid, we always take away part of your check.
Really? There aren't many left now.
Are you sure she is the right girl?
Yes. I was awarded a scholarship from the university every year. In 1995 I participated in the National Contest of Maths Models and I won the prize.
How do you get to office?
How does that fit, sir?
My house is up in Altadena.
Yes, they are just next to the newspapers actually.
Yes, I believe that It’s crucial for me to know if a company is right for me, not just if I ’ m right for the company. I ’ Ve only been impressed by what I ’ Ve read and heard and I see myself having
Would you please have a look at my report? I hope the project meets your demand.
I don't know. I sat down in my seat, looked at my paper, and then my mind just went totally blank.
Ok, like this?
Nope, I ’ m canceling my appointment so that I can stay here with you.
Maybe, but I think they are just for kids.
Do you have any year-end benefits?
Hah! For three hours while you threw up. And Femi dumped me for that. I really loved her.
We do face a lot of challenges because there is still much uncertainty about the world economy. It's very important for us to strike a proper balance between investment in fixed assets and household consumption.
I'd like to taste Mexican food.
Yes. I'd like to make a reservation to New York for 18th next month.
Thank you. I'm from America. Here is my business card.
engineers are truly remarkable.
Sure, but I have to finish this report first.
Do you know there are several catagories of Chinese tea?
I wish I had a character part. Those are my favorite.
I was sick.
All right. I'll take you at your word. May I suggest that you put down in the contract shipment on October 15th or earlier? Our letter of credit will be opened early September.
I'll just get a regular home computer then. I don't think I'll need to lug my computer around with me.
I'm calling about the apartment for rent on Main Street.
I helped build the sets and find props for the plays. What about you?
Janice, I found you stole my vegetables at four o'clock this morning. Is that true?
Well, it's not like my parents want me to live at home the rest of my life. They said that it's ok if I move back home to begin with, but they want me to find a place of my own after a year or so.
You look a little lost, can I help you?
Hi, Zina. Lots of people are looking for you.
Well, we were contacted by your manager and he said...
Oh, no. We just did it last week.
I think we ’ ll be better off if we are apart.
Sorry. That's not my fault.
Of course. There ’ s always much to learn. I got to know more about the real world.
And if people drop them, they won ’ t break.We ’ ll need to buy some buns to make hot dogs and hamburgers.
Yeah but, how did this holiday come to be?
Yeah. People down our way hardly speak to each other.
The meeting was delayed by thirty minutes and it lasted for two and a half hours.
All right. You need to have an interview with our manager, Mr. McBride. Let ’ s go to his office.
When will you graduate from that university?
One of my neighbors has a dog.
Where's my book?
Extension 1616, please.
I understand, sir. I ’ ll bring a doctor ’ s note in tomorrow. I am sorry, Mr. Thomas
Yes, here is our offer, 30,000 skirts at 200 yuan per skirt, FOB New York. You will find our price comes in line with the prevailing market.
What happened to that girl you were seeing?
This is Mr. Ma in room 215.
Your results are posted on the website. Just put in your password and you can see the exact numbers.
Poor guy! It's not fair. You forgot it too.
Come on! You're pulling my leg.
To be honest with you, Jason, I don't think I'm doing a very good job of balancing my schoolwork with my job. I'm always two steps behind. I've got to get back to the dorm and continue writing that paper. Say! Why don ’ t you talk to your advisor? And let me know!
To the cinema. What about coming with me?
Okay, here you go.
There won't be many other expenses expect food.
It's not bad. There are a lot of people there.
Maybe you're right. I have been too lazy lately.
I couldn't agree with you.
So, I should choose that one?
It was really fun chatting with you.
Of course. It's the best one I have here---and it's only 300 yuan.
B :: All right. I graduated from the nursing school of Beijing Medical University. The nursing school offered such courses as nursing science, nursing psychology, nursing ethics, internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics, and so on.
Have a good time. Next time you're free, give me a call and we'll go play poker.
it's deep fried vegetables, which is commonly eaten in Japan.
Yeah, So, are you going to buy one?
Good. I'll be there at 12:30.
That is just wishful thinking. The cost of higher education has increased in recent years, faster than the cost of living. So she wants Jane's brother to go on studying and earn his doctorate by means of it.
How about a dinner tonight? My treat.
How long have you been feeling like this?
Yes, here you are.
Every year, the South has the floods. It is an act of God.
I ’ m afraid not, Nick. That ’ s the best I can do.
Have you heard about our special promotion this month? If you purchase at least 18 dollar 50 cents in any Elizabeth Arden products, you will receive this black poke with a sample of lipstick, mascara and two shades of white shadow.
Yes. I want 500 kilograms of Black tea from Anti, 200 kilograms of Jasmine tea from Hangzhou and 100 kilograms of Crushed Black tea, first grade.
Here's my card.
I like the kinds of instruments that they use.
On that day, people play all kinds of tricks on others, and the one easily taken in is called April fool.
How do you like it so far?
The statue has for a century acted as a figurehead for the American Dream.
I have no idea what kbps means. I just want to be able to get online, play games and chat with my friends. Oh, and watch movies online as well.
I'm keen on talking short trips to nearby scenic spots. More often than not, I go with some of my friends. By the way, what are your favorites?
How much is it a pound?
Would you be willing to accompany me to the party tonight?
I'm very worried, doctor. I'm afraid that I'm very ill.
Yes, but can you show me the other colour ones?
I would like to return this book.
Be confident, and never give up.
I left the job because of expiry of my employment contract. Besides I have accumulated a lot of experience in this sort of job. I want to seek better jobs.
Generally it's to my appetite. What about you?
That's pretty cool. How much of a discount?
Do not take things so seriously, my pal! Every one of us will face the trouble and job-hunting is inevitable. Take it easy! Believe in yourself and some day you will be successful.
Hey, Ann. Wake up. It's time to get out of bed.
You should always remember that one customer on file is the rule.
You are quite right. Thank you for sharing your experience with me. I learned a lot.
I'm afraid not. I'm sick. I have a fever but I'm cold, and I threw up earlier.
Why do you need to leave early?
That's terrible. Do many people die in tornadoes?
Yes, I'm leaving at four pm.
I got a ticket, and I would like to fight it.
Of course I don't mind. For your report?
The negotiation of the price has taken us a long time. I hope the following negotiation about quality will be quicker.
if I get the promotion, I will be a senior engineer instead of an assistant engineer.
That is exactly what the poll shows. Although the stating of Clinton as a person has gone down in the last two years of his term, his approval rating is as high as 66 percent.
Yes. Her parents were raising money to have her treated in the united states.
That doesn't surprise me.
True. With the extension of railways and highways, and the improvement of safety and capacity of airplanes, ships and boats have been giving place to trains, planes and automobiles.
It looks nice.How much is it?
Where's your better half?
Lots of people especially seniors like to go to church, and attend the evening service.
About 20 % of them come from other countries and the others are employed from domestic universities and colleges.
This is her.
Is there anything after the meeting? In that case, would you add one plan? I want to visit our guest Mr. Ross after the meeting. Can you arrange it for me?
The reading on the meter is 15 yuan.
Well, standard mail can take up to fifteen working days. Priority is a bit faster and will arrive in about five to eight working days. Express is the fastest, but It’s also the most expensive. It only takes three days and you can track your package online.
I know. I figure as long as there ’ s nothing wrong, why go see the doctor?
No, this is not gonna happen! I... I ’ Ve ruined everything...
Hi Kara, it's Mike here.
This is John Laing from Dantons.
Okay. Good night. Have a good dream.
Is your blood pressure, I'm afraid. It's far too high.
And about time too!
Yeah, I guess I should.
Hello, Jack. It’s Mary. What are you doing in your office?
No, but she told me to telephone her next week.
my new phone are always delightful.
Oh, I see.How about the color?
That is the best part.Your hotel is actually an old country villa that has been restored and refurbished to accommodate a maximum of that is guests.You will enjoy an intimate and private time in this
I don't feel well. I need an airsickness bag.
Settle down, Elvin. If you're not careful, you'll give our plan away. Zina's smart, you know.
I am sorry to hear that, but face the music.
He is cute.What dose he do?
Alright. What's the phone number?
Yes, it's beautiful, but it's also very hot.
Then why don't you try the Chef's Steak Special?
Is what you said really true?
Where's the nearest bank?
one study said that low-income groups have a higher percentage of over-weight people than higher income families.
Then what's the difference between having a crush and falling in real love?
Bruh, that engineers was on point.
No, there is plenty of gas. I filled it up yesterday.
Can you tell me the price for a bus pass?
Did you see the picture of the guy on the front page of the newspaper this morning?
She married Jerrod.
It really depends on when and how long
We're on clearance sale now. Prices have up to twenty percent off. Do not miss the chance.
You can get a loan from the bank. You know LPF program provides low cost loans for participants home purchases.
Well, I'm under a lot of pressure. My boss is very pushy. He assigned me two projects. Now the deadlines are near and I still haven't finish one of them.
Do you think that climate change is responsible for the recent floods?
May I have a menu, please?
Really? What about your opinion, Daniel?
Well, how old is your baby?
Just a minute please.
No, thank you. I'm just looking for a black pair.
I would like a single room with a bath for two nights. Can you help me to reserve a hotel room for me?
Of course. I made apple pie this morning, so It’s lovely and fresh.
Alright.Do you want your cuticles cut, too?
So you want to go to Malibu?
I'm a teacher.
I see. Well, can I have a look at your phone? Unfortunately, this phone can ’ t be used in the US. It’s not compatible with our 3G network.
Well, I think it's time for you to change your eating habits and develop a healthy lifestyle. Regular exercise will improve your health.
You may rest assured.
Oh, well. Not by me.
It is very convenient. You know you can browse the website and send e-mails to your customers at any time.
What time will he be back?
How's Jimmy today?
Terrible! Does he want to divorce?
Would you be willing to help me do a few things on the day I move in?
A Mac is something most people appreciate.
Just in case you have to leave, we will just use the master key.
Mr. Wang, I've had scheduled for your two days stay in Shanghai. You can make some changes if it does not suit you.
well, you can simply tell them you want to sleep, or make an arrangement for a time when the room should quiet down.
Your BAC exceeds legal limit.
E-A-K-I-N-S.First name, Donald.And what's your present address, Mr.Eakins?
This one is 5 % off. That one has no reduction, but you can get a free tube of toothpaste with six toothbrushes.
It’s nice to go home earlier once in a while. But now It’s the evening rush.
Where are the keys?
No wonder you're such a wacko...
Do you miss your old co-workers?
Is it? I have no idea if I ’ m so late. I must be off now.
Hi, is this Steven?
We need to deliver some documents to our Monroe street branch. Can you come by and pick them up?
You can make it by the No. 913 bus, or by subway Line 13.
But why were you getting off work so late? The office close at six, doesn't it?
Is it raining right now?
I haven't been involved in international business, so I don't have any experiences, but I am diligent and I learn very fast.
Your starting salary is 2500 yuan a month, and after you become a permanent employee, it will be higher.
Would you have time to go look at apartments with me?
Hi! I'm Hong lei. What's your name?
It's an easy way to get hurt, let me tell you.
Have you heard about Michael's new home? It's in one of the poshest areas in this area.
Why, of course. Here are some that will show you our latest development. You may select which ever you need.
Of course, sir. Did you have anything from the minibar?
that would be great. I really only want to taste real Chinese food, not just the food that foreigners like to eat!
Hello! Is your company advertising for administrative assistant on the newspapers?
He is then in a very difficult situation.
Don't mention it, Larry. What are friends for anyway?
Thank you. I am glad that you are enjoying it.
No, I've been coming for the last 3 years.Each year keeps getting better.Where are you from?
But why would a guy be selling new video cameras for twenty dollars?
So, is L. A. all it's cracked up to be?
I think he would appreciate having a very fine leather bag.But more like a workbag or shoulder bag.You know, not so hard and square like a briefcase.
That's OK. A month is enough for you to learn the basic movements. It would be great to have you with us on the show.
Laptop. Did I pronounce that correctly?
Yes, they say I would get a big sum.
Hello. I have left my key in my room. But I can't get in now.
Yes, but dinner was excellent
I haven ’ t been involved in international business, so I don ’ t have any experience.
Yes, I have my driver's license.
I told you to hold my calls. I ’ m very busy at the moment.
He's a little sick under the weather.
Tina Li, Financial Planner, how may I be of service?
She should be very pleased with these roses.
Don't you know?
Listen. Come with me to class, and after class we can go out for dinner.
Don't tell me you got the dreaded Bush virus. I've heard that that bug is threatening to infect the world.
I think It’s important to most people. The problem is that you can usually only find out if someone is honest by getting to know them.
Oh, in what way?
About 70, I think. This newspaper article talks about the problems of an aging population. It's a problem that will soon affect most of the world.
I think you will find I am worth it.
Can you tell me where it hurts?
I agree. Business cards are great tools for promoting personal business. It won ’ t take much time to design an amazing card, but it can make a big difference among the crowd. And you ’ ll always notice it from your collection. For they have outspoken colors, own design and the sizes are not always according the mainstream business card. I wish to have one like this. But for sure our company has its own corporate design which all employees have to follow.
well, it is getting pretty late. I think we should go home.
I think I got lucky in choosing a wine that blends with this meal.
Too bad I missed it.
yes, they were horrible. We had to wear green every day!
I want to open another account.
Right! Anyway, the basic difference between a digital camcorder and its traditional counterpart is that it speaks digital.
Where do we begin?
Yes, that would make a good ending for your resume.
I know what you mean there. In many circumstances, people kiss the baby for the nurse's sake. And that's what we do when drinking at a banquet. Even though we do have a rich variety of brand-name wines, like Matai and Showing Yellow Rice Wine, alcohol is usually served not for the enjoyment itself. We just be its Dionysus effect to enliven the atmosphere, improve personal association with each other and solidify friendship.
Take care, sonny!
oath... that makes so much more sense! Ha-ha. Well, great, I don't like German food anyway!
Do you mind if I put my jacket there?
I like lotus.
We're having trouble with Bob.
I got a promotion at my job.
sure it will. Oh, no, it's seven fifteen already. I'm going to be late for my date.
I ’ m sure he will be.
ok... I'm going to have to skip over this section. It's girl-talk.
Rachel has decided to quit smoking.
I do wish I could lose weight
OK. I'll have him come up to get you.
Management? Wow, I had no idea I could move so quickly from entry level to managerial staff.
How do they all get in such tiptop shape?
That is very kind of you to offer to do that. Can you start with the pages on the table?
Of course. This is a great chance for me to show off my beautiful voice.
I know you're sleepy and I hate to bother you, but I think you're late for work.
If you need to work overtime, you will get twice the usual salary as overtime pay.
Give me your address.
Yes, I hope I will be a manager in 5 years.
I thought leather shoes will do just as well.
Such a thing exists?
They are not geeks. They are also interested in singing, dancing, and so on. They are excellent, and they can always help me a lot.
Yeah. For five minutes, everything was half off. It was total chaos...
Yes, I ’ m serious.
Er... what else can I tell you? Er... she's got... er a... round face, a very round face, and a very big mouth, sort of wide mouth, when she laughs, her face is all mouth.
Oh, she sings too?
Oh! You mean she doesn ’ t have to work now? It’s hard for young parents not to overreact, isn ’ t it?
I feel that Bob ’ s father-in-law is a hard nut to crack.
Thank you, I will. Hope to see you again next year.
I don ’ t think so.
OK. Please fill out this form first.
Hi, I'm John Sandals, and I have a reservation.
Okay. Let ’ s clear the air. What are you getting at?
Could you hold these packages while I look for the key?
it's getting cold.
Well, I think something must be wrong with my bill. I didn't have any laundry.
Sure. But it is too cold today. I have to put on warm clothes and look stupid.
Thank you very much. I will let you know as soon as possible.
thank goodness we're not rich and famous!
All right. Give me a big smile. Are you ready? Cheese!
Wow! I'm impressed!
Of course. We both experienced a good cooperation.
You mean the white building near the playground?
Yes, would you arrange it for me the day after tomorrow?
I ’ m not sure how.
let's hope so.
I never knew that.
That's the whole point. All your inhibitions disappear because you can ’ t see the other person. This network allows you to talk to people whom you normally wouldn ’ t talk to.
Good day. How can we assist you?
I have never been to Korea. I've been to Japan before, but never Korea.
You have a very good taste. It's our best seller.
Ya. And now I can break this to you. Fanny is moving.
No, I thought it was too dull. I'm capable of more responsibilities, so I decided to change my job.
Yup. I have English at 9 in the morning.
Not at all. That's what I should do.
Are you going with your friends?
Yes, Friday I have a class right after work.
Excuse me, I'm lost. Can you show me where I am in this map?
Then you must know a lot about skating.
How is he?
Hello, there. Welcome, and what can we assist you with?
What did I do? I haven't done anything.
How are you today?
When you buy clothes, you must think about the material, quality and price.
Oh, I see. So, you're saying that you've already run out of your amenities.
This is our courtyard.
I've tried to give up smoking several times, but it's no good. Smoking relaxes me.
Do you believe what they say?
That ’ s not a very good idea. It’s quite hot outside. Why don ’ t you smoke outside?
sounds great. Do they serve noodles? I am in the mood for some tasty noodles as well.
Yes, look over there. That's the Empire State Building. My book says it's 102 stories tall.
Just relax. We will talk about it this afternoon.
Why don't you re-take the class next year?
Thanks for inviting me. Actually, I've never been anywhere with so many black people before. It's different.
Ok. I ’ ll send a check.
Peter, enough with your computer games. Go do your homework now.
Fine. See you later.
Could you tell me what Ants on the Tree is please?
Not much. Joann. Do you want to hang out?
I hate dealing with complaints. Was it a legitimate complaint?
Hi, Steven. You have finished a wonderful project recently.
Yes, her daughter's having a baby, so she's moving in with her to help out. I think if you are interested, you can come over and have a look.
We have been here for about five days and I have to leave now.
But if I were you, I would be a singer. You've got such a beautiful voice.
Do you have any cheaper ones?
Hello, Lina. I'm calling about your new PIN scheme. I'm new to all of this, so some of my questions may sound a little ignorant...
Can I pay my bill here?
Excuse me, what does that mean?
Hi Amy, you look very happy.
That will be all for me.
Oh, come on! Don't be so sour. These are beautiful shirts. I know if we don't buy some today, you will never go shopping by yourself.
Daniel, hold on for a minute. What are you trying to pull there?
Hello, this is Smith from 1308, can you add something to my room?
No, thank you. Check, please.
It's true.It was a bit loud.
Very good. Basically, once our sales plan was put together, I had a great deal of freedom to handle my sales in the way I felt best.
Just pulling up your information now. Yes, some documents arrived for you from Sapporo.
It would be a really good choice. The movie is very suitable for lovers to see together. I'm sure you won't regret it.
Have you seen any good movies lately?
Yes, it is. Please come to see me tomorrow afternoon at 2 00 for a job interview.
sure. What do you want?
I am looking for a book that has nursery rhymes.
What are you looking for?
Mary, come here. I've found the book our teacher recommended us to buy last week.
Not yet. I have an interview with a visa official today.
No, but what time do you expect him back?
Miss, I just can't help you on this. I'm a pharmacist, not a doctor. And there are other customers I need to help now. I know it is frustrating when this happens.But there is nothing I can do about it. I'm sorry.
I'm a tourist in this city and unfortunately I've lost my card!
I haven't been better. How about yourself?
So awful! I never fancy my salary is so little.
OK, thank you.
A diet? What for? You are in great shape.
my parents gave them to us as a house warming gift.
I ’ m concerned about your lack of marketing experience and, frankly, your age, you ’ re pretty new at all this.
How about the seaside?
No problem. This one is made of pure gold.
I guess I need all of them.
Really? Is that why you wanted to come to the play?
Ok, shall I flag down the waitress?
What are you talking about, we've tried everything!
We're only available at 3
Okay. I ’ ll pay the charges.
What do you think of the project?
I would love a really sticky cinnamon bun.
How is your family?
That means you don ’ t like them. If you hit it off with them, you will like to see their smiles.
( They walk over to the apartment. ) As you can see, it's large and completely furnished.
The internal factors are composed of human resources, team spirit, innovation spirit and coordination between different departments, etc.
I actually try to avoid name-brand items. I can't stand it when big companies advertise their products all over the place!
Well, you can just see the sea. Between the factory chimneys.
I had a wonderful experience with vegetarians.
That's the beauty of it, and the danger.
I just saw her down the street. I don ’ t know where she is.
Freelance, hmm. How do you think she will manage in an office environment?
Hello. This is Jones. I'd like to speak to Mr. Chen.
Where were you Bron?
now, she ’ ll be able to save up for that holiday in the united states.
He certainly is. He is the Peckham in our collage.
Please don't be nosey.
Can you tell me how to send one on it?
Won't it be dangerous?
Did you take the job?
Oh, you do?
this book are so woke.
No, east is the other direction. To get to the Bakery, you need to turn around and go three blocks to Broadway. When you get to the intersection of Broadway and Elm, you hang a left. Go straight down that street for half a block and then you'll see the building on your left.
Gangster movies. Movie-goers at that time could get a look at the people involved in crime and their violent activities by watching it.
Do you have another account with us?
Yeah, too cool. How much did they sold you for?
I would be glad to do routine work sometimes, if I could be assured of making advancements in the future.
Do you have any particular conditions that you would like our company to take into consideration?
We receive credit card as well.
Waiter, bill, please.
Hi! Susan! I haven ’ t seen you for ages!
Yes, it is. Look at the little light! It blinks off and on.
Name brand is not necessary. Anything decent will be fine.
One way or round trip?
Is it horror movie?
Why can't I call the police now? He was definitely following me!
Did you see the letter I got from Bradford Films? They sent it in response to your phone call last week.
Sorry, it's not available now. Anything else?
How many chapters does the book have?
Quite good, actually. I'm pretty sure you're demanding, but fair and honest. I feel we can work together.
When and where were you born?
Yes, can you put it in a plastic bag?
I'm sure it's nothing serious, probably just a minor fault. I'll have a look at it.
Just so so.There are no exciting things for me.
Mom, what should I do?
How dare you question my statement!
And when did you come to Los Angeles?
Some companies use to ban dating among employees, but now they have realized it is something in avertable. People spend so much time at work. It is not surprising for one to have a crash on the other.
Just a moment. I will do it right now.
Do you know what the problem is?
This is John.
That'd be wonderful, Peter. But I hope you're in a better mood than you were this morning.
How do you like the food?
I am working. I often work late on Thursdays. I am busy this week.
What a beautiful sweater!
You're damn right. I'm not so easily coaxed into doing something that I think is wrong.
Shall we leave it to the brokers?
Here is your bill, sir. Could you PLS check it?
I ’ d like to get a jar of strawberry jam and a bottle of tomato ketchup. Do we need any meat?
I should have?
Are you under a lot of stress?
What is it, Mrs. Wang?
Yes please. I really am an absolute amateur when it comes to this stuff.
I'm going to work in holidays and pay by installments.
Our copying machines are too slow, our telephone system is limited in function, and our offices are not well-equipped for us to work efficiently. To improve the offices for higher efficiency, we have to change all the chairs and some of the desks also, redesign our office so that we may have more space.
What was more exciting, starting college or starting work?
Did he actually say that?
That's really smart. My son Daniel is the same with your son. I just don't get it, why all the kids prefer western food to traditional food.
Okay, see you then.
Do you have any seats for September 16th?
That sounds fine to me. Yes, I think 6 months is the way to go.
Where are you from?
Have a nice flight back, and take care. Thanks for your call.
Glad you asked me to join you. This will be fun!
I'd love to, but I'm allergic to strawberries.
well, if you want to live in London, you have to pay the price!
I'd like to have rest, but I have many things to do.
Excuse me. Do you study Chinese at the university here?
When can I wear perfume?
I ’ Ve got a fever and really a bad headache.
Do you mean all the sales letters from them?
Ok, should I use the fancy silverware?
Well, they are packed in boxes of two dozens each, 100 boxes to a wooden case.
It’s nearly half past seven.
There's no particular place that you want to look at?
Such as your land line phone number, mobile phone number and e-mail box.
It'll be $ 308 nightly.
More and more people need to buy houses, but the market can not meet the needs, so this caused the bubble in real estate industry.
It’s China ’ s service now. What a superb jump serve by Li, oh, and we have a let serve. The ball was coming in fast and almost made it over the net.
But why are people always having such a negative attitude towards them?
I'm here, hello.
Good night, sleep tight ; don ’ t let the bed bugs bite!
If I placed an order now, how long would it be before I got delivery?
What do you think about this store? I heard It’s a posh store that ’ s only got branches in big cities.
I was told that your company had been in the furniture industry for many years. What kinds of products do you generally handle?
I'm highkey obsessed with this musicians.
Ten sheets of rice paper, 25 brushes, two boxes of oil color and two boxes of water color. All these come up to $ 35.50, sir.
Sandy, can you help me contact these people?
You need to be prepared to show that your unemployment is not your fault. If you have a termination notice, that would be great.
Come on. I know Li Lin is there. Let me talk to her.
Ok. And I ’ d like to check these books out.
Yeah, I know, but it's too hard to do.
I don ’ t think this place is for you.
We are here.
I thought it was better than the others-I really liked it. What did you think of it?
We can just each get what we want to get.
I would like to buy two exquisite watches for me and my girlfriend.
Well, you should come this weekend. I think you could do the climb.
It is. But there is no Frans Smith here. Do you know which department he works in?
I borrowed it from Mike yesterday. Why not have a try?
Be careful.The floor is slippery.
I would like to be in a managerial role, ideally working do6ely with external clients. I have worked in client-facing roles for more than two years and I enjoy the challenge of keeping the customer satisfied. I think Ifs something I ’ m good at. Finally, I ’ d like to be on the right career path towards eventually becoming a senior manger within the company. I ’ m very aware that these are ambitious goals, however I fell through hard work and dedication they achievable.
You're right, sir. Please let me transfer you to my supervisor
How come? I have never seen such a popular book before.
Here is the programme. Check it out yourself!
the end of all the hard work for my master's. what a nice feeling to get my degree!
You can't miss it. Add the class and then come back. We'll check later to make sure you are on the roll sheet.
What's the room rate? It's little expensive for me.Do you have any other room?
Ha! That's right. You used to smoke. I forgot!
Good afternoon, Miss Li.
I have never shopped there, but I think Price Club is a kind of membership store.
the five dolls are sold together as a set, and they're priced according to the size. The bigger they are the more expensive.
Let's play some music! I feel like dancing.
It’s going to be a problem when my water bill comes.
Hi, Bob. What can I do for you?
And my new car. To think that he simply drove off with everything in my car. That's what hurts me most.
Sure.How many rooms do you need?
What kind of scarf shall I show you? We have them in all sorts and sizes.
About nine thirty in the morning.
Why did you drag me into this? I've spent a week salary.
I plan on running into her in the cafeteria when she's alone. I think I'll ask her then.
I like to listen to Rock and R & B.
So it's the subjective criteria like team building and colleague support that you find hard?
looks like you ’ re not going to get more than a bedroom in a shared flat with that.
Do you play bridge?
Then again, I think 7 fifteen is too early. Change 7 fifteen to 7 thirty, please.
South Park is a popular cartoon. You're so out of it, Jen
Here you are. Thanks.
Hey, just watch out for cops or you ’ re gonna end up in the slammer. You know you tend to go fast?
OK, I ’ ll be right back.
Thanks a lot! I will look forward to the good news. Please call me at this number between nine and eleven in the morning.
Hello, Sir. Are you still there?
You are welcome. Have a nice day.
Of course I know it, but you know it's hard to quit smoking...
What's good today?
Your name and room number, please?
I think I can get by with 2,000.
The Bible says that Jesus Christ was resurrected three days after he was crucified. People commemorate that at a festival called Easter.
Would you consider it your favorite class?
As a matter of fact, I would like to work in South America. So some Latin language like Spanish or Portuguese would work.
Dear, time is up, let ’ s go there now.
Personally, I would consider making one more offer, but it is up to you to decide what to do.
Just one second, sir, and I'll give you your receipt. Here you go.
Yes. I am calling to make sure if flight CG877 will arrive on time?
We have a beautiful natural park.
You need to fix it.
But I asked them to send it to you directly.
Sorry. When was this purse purchased?
OK, catch you later.
Well. Don't worry about it, I will be happy to share the taxi with you.
We are faced with the problem that part of the consignment is unacceptable. We assume that damage occurred during the consignment was in your care.
You should try actual fundraisers, too.
Please fill in this form. How would you like it? In 100 Euro cheques?
I usually play with my schoolmates.
It’s great, dad. I don ’ t mind delivering papers, but the real fun is collecting the money.
Good idea. Thank you.
My son. He is two years old.
I'd like to reserve a room.
I'm sorry but 5 of these notes seem to be counterfeit. Look at this watermark, do you see it?
I never had very many headaches before, but the last few weeks I have been getting a lot of them.
I told you that she is no fool.
I ’ m sorry. You can ’ t return it because too much time has passed since you purchased it. In order to receive a refund, you must return merchandise to the store within 90 days of purchase.
I was drying my hair and ironing my shirt! Can you come here for a sec? I need your help.
why not? I don't have anything better to do!
You didn't read their brochure or anything, did you?
It is ok with me. I enjoy being busy and learning new things.
Just as usual, you know.
Me too. Recently, I've made many friends on the net. Every day I talk to them and share many interesting things with them.
sure, my sister-in-law and her husband just bought a house that way. They ’ re pretty satisfied with it.
You know, sir, you don't have to use it. You can turn it on or off. If you don't want to use it, you just never turn it on.
The best island of Korea-Jizhou island.
Well, just a little thin.
I no longer need to worry about what will happen with this country.
I will have someone bring that up right away. How would like to pay for the dinner?
It would take a lot less time..
How about at 6 pm?
Hello. What can we do for you?
That's another varietal, or type of grape, just like Chardonnay.
Good afternoon, welcome to IBA. How can I be of service?
His residence? You mean the whole palace?
I am worried about my future. I can't believe that our company is as big as it is. The company can only continue to grow by taking care of its staff.
If you detect any difference, I'll take you out to dinner.
Well. Have a pleasant stay in Germany.
To the airport please.
No, not yet. But Susan says they ’ d like to get married in November or December. Then they ’ ll go to Hawaii for their honeymoon.
Yes, please have a seat, and we ’ ll discuss this right now.
Six are compulsory, two optional.
I ’ Ve been having a little trouble breathing. Would you look into that, please?
Could you wait for a minute, sir? I'd like to have a check.
Is there an extra charge to reserve the room?
I feel dizzy.
I think I would like that.
Cancelled! So what am I supposed to do now?
Who ’ s calling?
Hello, this is Wang Li. I want to know the status of the position.
You'll be sorry if you the boss finds it out. He may probably give you the bag.
I know, mom.
I ’ m not sure what laws are being voted on.
Ha! Ha! If you don't make an effort now, later on it'll be a lot tougher for you.
That's right. So in a way, it is cheaper for you than for the members.You get more benefits than they do.
Pasadena Traffic School. How can I help you?
So does my father. I'm already used to it.
Well, I cook a lot of big meals.
Has the train come yet?
What have you got? A cough? A cold?
Of course, Sir. What kind of currency would you like to deposit? And what is the amount you would like to pay in?
Jessica is going back to Holland next week. I've been thinking a lot about what to give her as a parting gift, but I still have no clue.
According to the article, you have no real need to worry. Research nowadays is focussing on cloning parts of a human body to replace damaged or lost parts, not on recreating a whole human.
Then one to New York at 10 thirty.
Pay him? But he studies for himself, not for you or for me or for anybody else. I got an idea. You should send him to class every morning and after the class begins, you can go to work.
I enjoy chicken salads.
Last night he told the children a cliff-hanger story and both of them were scared out of sleep.
They are staying at the Hilton Hotel.
Is this Taiwan 8234342 2, DS engineering?
Yes, you have a good eye for materials.
Wow! That must be really awesome to stand on the top of the mountain to overlook the earth.
Yeah. It won ’ t be much, but at least we ’ ll have a monthly check when we get old.
Yes, I think so. I have just checked out. But I left my book in the room. Can I get it back?
We do charge to use the machine.
oh, yes. I want to check whether you still have any vacancies. I need three single rooms for next Monday.
Yes. That's the secret to wearing a thin jacket.
Tell me about the apartment.
Do I eat the seed?
Yes, that's true. Still, it's hard to believe. Yesterday our high was only 50 degrees Fahrenheit.
An aisle seat, please. I ’ m tall and need to get up and walk pretty often.
Have you decided whether or not you would like to go?
Yes. We'll also apply some of our special day cream that will moisturize our skin and protect it from the sun.
Everyone is doing great. My sister finally had her baby.
How was my singing?
What courses did you take in college?
We have an hour-long lunch break from 12 to 1. we can take coffee breaks during the day. My boss doesn ’ t mind, as long as we get out work done on time.
Next Saturday at the earliest.
Thank you. Is that a window table?
hi, Emily, do you know that guy over there?
How about some Oolong tea? It's very popular with our guests.
It's Beethoven. Do you like it?
Well, I'm afraid not. I think the hero has much more to be believed in.
Well, I was hoping we could reschedule for early next month, Our trip has been postponed until the 2nd.
Good morning, Mr. Wilson. I ’ m calling to confirm the date of the next interview program.
And when are they coming to visit us?
Do you know who Ammo Hung is?
OK. And keep doing that until most of the egg is cooked so you should have a nice thick omelet and then flip it over, you'll only have to cook that side lightly. Put your fillings on the top and fold it over and let it sit just long enough to melt the cheese.
Yes, I think so. Can I ask you something?
Sure. Take a seat, please. What would you like to know?
I haven't seen your father in like 5 years. How is he doing?
Do you really want it that short?
I should start exercising more.
I don ’ t have another one.
I enjoy listening to both Rock and R & B.
Thanks. It was very nice to meet you.
Hi, darling! I have a one-month vacation saved up. How about a trip to Europe?
The exam! The terrible exam! I'm not ready yet. Can you tell me how to get good marks?
But I am badly in need of the amount. Might I ask you to make an exception for me?
I had a job interview this morning.
Thanks a million.
Hey, Joshua! Is Anny coming with us?
Hello, I've got to get up early tomorrow, so please give me a wake-up call.
Sure it is. I am up to my ears as time expressed.
They're pretty similar, but in different ways. I really can't decide. How about you?
You said it. You know, the divorce rate has been on the rise in recent year.
My name is Jerry and we are on the intersection of West Road and East Road.
Good evening, may I help you?
And what about the number of people on the streets?
I left a voice message on one---just for the first person on the list.
That is true. Speaking of cavities, I am starting to feel something is wrong with my teeth now. Let's get more strawberry chocolate drops before we go home.
of course you should. You wouldn ’ t want a silly argument to ruin a long friendship, would you?
You speak really well.
Yup, that's him. He made millions of dollars selling bonds to people and ended up with a pile of cash when they became useless.
When should I make my presence known?
Are there any special features that you would like to have, such as, a dishwasher, a balcony, a swimming pool, central air conditionining, etc.?
Sir, I'm Michelle, and I run the front desk. Please tell me the days you'll be here.
What about 15 yuan?
Well, yes, it is, but...
No, I guess not. But that's what I want, isn't it? An efficiency.
Well, I prefer active rather than passive training. For example, I like the training offered by a financial software company from which we bought the newest updated virgin. They sent the programmers to demonstrate how to do and then ask us to practice. All employees receiving this training were in the same meeting room, so we could communicate with each other. We had a lot of fun learning together. It helps to build up the work relation among colleagues.
What are you eating?
No, I'm still single.
I have to move.
Yeah.Oh, here it comes! why don't we watch it together? they are going to have a court debate in this episode. It should be good.
Oh, I like it very much. How much does it cost?
I sometimes played table tennis and sometimes played basketball.
You know how much I want to be on the team, and now there is an opening for me.If I don't go to practise today.They ' ll get someone else and I'll miss my chance.
There's nothing that can be done. Everything is gone. I wish I could tell you differently, but what has happened has happened. We will just have to figure out a way to move on.
Try to avoid the possible duplicate answer if you can.
You'll need to wait a few minutes for the fries. They are still in the fryer.
I help you spot potential problems with the home before you purchase it.
Cash, please. Here is the money.
I can see that. But I didn ’ t know you had experience in that line of work.
It's facial paper, and it fits into the rings of my binder! It's magical.
Is rice your staple food, too?
In rugby, players pass the ball by throwing it to team mates, don ’ t they?
Just relax. With me as your maid of honor, everything will be fine!
Would you mind if I ask your health status?
No, It is a middle-sized private company.
That's not bad. How long have you been in PR?
It's a big jump in science. Maybe more like a leap.
It's a scam 7 that's based on a hierarchy, like a pyramid. The person at the top asks the people below him for money, and then tells them to go and ask other people for money while sending some of it back to him.
Really? I'll have a try. Maybe I will get high marks next time.
But they're hard to be disposed of.
Straight, I think, and about average length
To be honest, I don't think you could even win a gold in hopscotch!
Do you still like playing those games?
Why, this is the most interesting film!
Oh, the whole house needs re-painting for starters. The carpet in the living room is worn out, and I'd like to put in new wall-to-wall carpeting. Last week, I had to call the plumber to fix the toilet. Anyway, all par for the course when you own a house, I guess. I think I am going to hire an interior decorator to look the place over.
Just a moment, please. I am sorry, sir. There is no ticket available on that day. But we have flights for Hong Kong the next day.
Oh, yes, ma'am. We'll come right away then.Your room number and your name, please.
After I am accepted for unemployment benefits, what will happen next?
My immediate family is quite small. It’s just my older step-brother, my mom, my step-dad and me. how about you?
All right.Let ' s go.
"I'd rather say it's confusing. what are those "" strict nutrition philosophies "" about? "
Sure, would you like anything else?
That ’ s good advice. I should also be careful about giving out confidential information about myself, such as my password and credit car number.
Tom has grown six inches within a year.
No, it's just the two of us.
( Half an hour, Janice begins shouting excitedly. ) What's the matter with you?
We can cover ourselves with beer! That way if they bite us, they ’ ll get drunk and fall asleep.
These are some Chucks.
Mr. Mechanic, I'd like a nice Venezuelan blend this morning.
Don't be discouraged even when confronted with negative questions
Besides, traffic signal in downtown area are very annoying, are they?
OK. I'll take the blue one.
Excuse me, could you tell me the bookshop ’ s address?
And they're happy with that?
Of course. How about this one?
oh, really? I saw it two years ago. It's worth seeing and it's thought-provoking.
Well, it came with a certificate, and it looks real. But auctioning on eBay is risky.
You can get a liang if you want. A liang is one-sixteenth of a jin. That would be 330NT.
the bathroom looks lovely. Did you redecorate it yourself or did you get someone in to do it for you?
I can't consider you as a little kid any more. I know he is very tall.
Well, don't you know for sure?
The service here has been really great, don't you think?
We're sorry you have to leave.
How about playing Barbie out there in the neighborhood?
I usually shop at Sons.
Not at all, but we don ’ t have a very traditional marriage either, so it suited us perfectly!
Well, go home and rest up. Make sure you check the website for your assignments.
But swimming in the winter is good for your body. Believe me.
There certainly are a lot. Can you choose a favorite?
Do you like traveling by train or by plane?
What is the orientation and view?
I just don't know how to bring it up. Well, all right. She has the right to know anyways.
Are you kidding She is behind the times. That style went out last year.
Good morning. You are Mr. Sun, aren't you? Take a seat, please.
Couldn ’ d you choose to be transferred to a real person?
Hey Sandra, what's wrong? You look furious!
Did you take any pictures in the ocean?
Four times. I'm totally prepared. Oh, no! I forgot to take off my nail polish! And I have to be there in 15 minutes! That's it. I blew it.
That's a lot.
Sure, I'll let you know if I need anything. Hm, this mattress is very firm. Jack will probably like it.
What's the damage?
I am returning these books.
I'll get you her number. I hope she can do it. She is very responsible.
Do you have anything else I can have instead?
You got it! I have a new job, I ’ m living in a new city, with new friends! This is my opportunity to make some small changes in the way I live my life.
Well, actually, it's quite a substantial amount. Here's my Bank Book. Will that cause a problem?
You know that this afternoon's meeting is cancelled, right?
Do you know if there's a restroom around here?
Well, you don't seem to be interested in getting a real job, either.
I understand, Mr. Carmichael. I'd be glad to make it some time next week.
What do I talk about?
You're making a federal case out of it. One unhealthy love affair can't ruin anything. It could even make your life more interesting.
Oh, you're staying at the downtown Hilton.Then, you go down two blocks this way and turn left.You ' ll find it on the right.
Why are you asking me the strange question, Jerry?
Yes, I have one of your buy one, get one free coupons, and I'd like to order two large pizzas.
If you are free, maybe you would like to go to a small party and having for my birthday party. It will be fun, you will get to know lots of people.
Well, honey, I can teach you how to plant them if you want to learn.
I'd like a flower-and-bird painting.
What's the house rent? When is the rent due? And how much security deposit do you require?
Fine. At 3:30?
I hope so. I guess I won't be sleeping for the next 3 days. That's what it'll take.
Hi, Zhengjun, what make you so happy.
Let me look. What do you need?
But what? Just remember that thrift is not only a great virtue, but also a great revenue.
Here ‘ s the check for hen dollars
Ok. I'll make the arrangements. It will be great.
It doesn't look very nice outside today.
No, I did that a long time ago. It’s about telling my son the truth about Santa Claus.
Thank you for calling.
how big is a shuffle iPod?
That sounds really tasty.
Oh, your precious game. You watch the same game every year, and each year your beloved hometown team loses by at least three goals!
Four in hundred, one in ten, please.
She is so beautiful, isn't she?
It’s all right. I don ’ t mind being busy!
I'm going to work with my father at the store. In the evening, I'll read books.On weekends, I'll go to the beach with my family.
That's 68 pounds altogether, please.
YY's? That place is boring. How about Xara's? It's real classy, and they keep the place spin and span.
Excuse me. I'm afraid I got lost. Where am I on this map?
Yean. Around five feet five inches tall.
She never puts words into her mouth, she only repeats the opinions of others.
Ok. I ’ ll start by looking at the motor. I ’ ll just unplug it and take a look inside the machine... oh, yes. There ’ s the problem. It’s quite simple. I ’ ll sort it out in a few minutes.
Where's Gate 12?
Hello. Do you know how I can find a room to rent?
Well, it's a window table that we've booked.
Would you like those with yogurt?
Did you hurry back to the bedroom?
So the weekend is coming! How about seeing a film!
Not really. I was in the neighborhood, and I just wanted to stop in to see if you received my resume.
It’s open from 6:30 a.m.to 10 p.m.every day.
She just broke up with her boyfriend.
I have been using the store across town for years.
It looks pretty frightening. He doesn't have any lips, so all you can see are his gums and teeth. Most of his nose and chin are missing too.
I've been offered another job with higher salary. And it also gives me the opportunity of promotion.
Sure. We have lemon pies, apple pies, coffee rum pies and ice cream.
Come on. If we save more money, we can retire earlier and you ’ ll actually have time to read all those books you buy.
One Big Mac and French Fries.
That's more reasonable. I'll take this one.
OK. Now what?
Mom, I'm ready for school.
You're just jealous because you didn't do as well as you thought you did. Admit it.
Hi, Cole. What can I do for you?
I'll think about it.
Do you mind if we call on you this evening?
I want this trip to be perfect, I hope it stays warm.
How many plates of ice ream did you eat, young man?
She has been admitted to Yale with a scholarship.
Ok, son. I think I ’ Ve go to tell you the truth. My company has gone out and I ’ m now out of job. If you want a new camera, go and earn money yourself.
Let me help you with your serve.
My wife will be going back to work soon.
You ’ re absolutely right.
Which season do you like best?
You can taste some before you buy it. They have food tasting at the counter.
I feel itchy! I can ’ t stand it anymore! I think I may be coming down with something. I feel lightheaded and weak.
Good afternoon, may I help you?
Do you think of television though as a great time-waster?
Non-smoking will be fine, please. But it is more important that you get a table by the window. It's our anniversary, and I'd like to be very special.
Loretta? No, she can't come, she's busy.
To lose some weight.
sure I am. I've been writing a blog for almost three years.
Susan, can you give me a hand?
I'm afraid not. I've promised my girlfriend. We're going to travel south to find jobs that offer higher pay.
I am afraid I can't agree with you there. I must point out your prices are higher than the quotations we've received from other companies.
You should enroll in driving school and then take a road test and a written test. After you pass both tests, you'll get your licence.
It really is. Do you have time to eat dinner and catch up?
We need to buy some buns for the hot dogs and hamburgers, and I'm making potato salad.
No hurry! I'II tell you now, The collections include ancient cases and caskets, tea sets, abacuses, precious sea shells and conches, drama costumes, agates, ancient coins, fans, mini-musical instruments, root-carving, rare stones and rocks, model ships, model cars...
That ’ s right. Drive back to the traffic rights and turn right. Follow the road for about a mile, until you see the plaza hotel. It’s a really big hotel. You can ’ t miss it. Turn left at the hotel.
How about seven hundred yuan?
I don't know. I just need to try it once. I'm in urgent need of some exercise to lose some weight.
Thanks.Okay. I have my soap.
Hello, Mr. Black, how are you?
So you're just going to wash here?
Yes, we do. The most popular vegetables are potatoes, carrots, peas, and cauliflower. The most popular fruit are apples, bananas, pears, peaches, grapes, and oranges. Do you like vegetables?
B :: Well, I think I'm ready for new challenges.
Linda, this is Todd calling.
You should check online.
I always give each job my best efforts, so when others are not pulling their weight, I am frustrated.
I'll try my best.
I'm thirsty. Pull over to that store, I'll buy some drinks.
they always say that dogs are a man's best friends. do you think that's true?
Have you ever witnessed any crimes or accidents?
If you're observant you'll see rare birds, insects, butterflies, and a few reptiles. But you must look for them. There are also a few am-phibians in lower places.
That's a good idea. Wish you a great vacation!
Alright... And did you have some specific questions about your application?
Yes, you have a paid month holiday every year.
have you ever seen Bill Gate's home on the internet?
I hate to go outside.
Did you see Ally Mabel last night?
How awful! Was he hurt?
Well, I'm not authorized to agree to such a big reduction. Would you mind waiting a day or two, until I get a reply from the home office?
Yes, I'm thinking of buying some T-shirts, but I find your price is on the high side.
Let me see. It's a one day tour.
why are women allowed so much more time for maternity leave?
have you ever been in an earthquake?
Did you get a good look at the person who robbed you?
Could I open an account with you today?
I'm curious about that.
A new reporter must expect to work many hours.
Could you arrange me to see Doctor John tomorrow morning?
Sure, what do you have?
How long is the warranty?
Oh, nice. Is he coming on his own or with the family?
I'm glad I could help.
He is planning again.
why are you so upset today, Maria? Cheer up!
you mean the boy you met on MSN?
Don't you feel dull?
Oh, I'm sorry. Mr.Li is in a meeting right now. Can I take a message?
It sure is. I'm glad it didn't rain. My name's Mike Gates, by the way.
There are something wrong with my computer.
Do you want to eat breakfast here?
OK, honey, stop dreaming. You should face the reality.
I was wondering, I have heard many of my co-wokers that your knowledge and experience in international markets is phenomenal. Also, I ’ Ve heard the rumor that you speak fluent Japanese. Is that right?
Just a minute, please. I won't be long. I'm sure this one is perfect. You may examine it carefully.
Okay. Let's go.
I... er... I just want to know if you could lend me a few bucks.
Yes, I do. I have a Current Account, a credit card and a mortgage with you already.
You should never chew gum or smoke during an interview, even if you are allowed to do so.
No, I'm afraid that's it.
Doctor, I feel much better now. Will I be albe to go home some time this week?
That's crazy.
Absolutely. Take my word for it.
No, It’s unfurnished. It has a kitchen, but there are not many cookers. There ’ s a garden in the back, but the tenants can ’ t use it. The landlord lives downstairs. Friends are forbidden in the apartment after midnight. No noise and no television after 11...
Great party, isn't it?
When? Tomorrow morning?
So what do you provide?
That's correct. If you remember, we also set a goal to double distribution in overseas markets. Now, when looking at the data to evaluate whether or not we made our goals, there are three things to consider. First, the original condition of the market, second, our marketing numbers from the previous year, and third, our final sales figures for this year. Now I want to describe for you the second and third parts. If you look at the overhead, you'll see a graph... The blue line represents our sales from the year 2005, the red line is the sales in 2006... As you can see, our sales in 2005 were quite slow to start off with, but managed to make decent performance in the last part of the year. On the other hand, you can see this year's sales took off like a rocket.
Well, then I'll come again the day after tomorrow.
That's all there is to it.
Good idea. Can I bring some music from that period too?
For the most part, yes. Some of the rides are bit too scary for me, though.
It's not too bad today, actually. 828.23.
I usually enjoy the meals here, so I think that we should tell the waiter that there is something wrong with this meal.
We should take the red line. Let's get the tickets at the automatic vending Machine.
It's all your fault! Now we can't get in shopping.
We'll do an investigation and get to the bottom of this.
So you have to bring your baggage to the transfer check-in area.
No, thank you. I think it's enough for dinner.
Excuse me. I ’ m a stranger here and lost my way.
She's very nice.
Are there pets allowed in this apartment?
Darned right I would!
I like to play piano, go bowling and chat with my friends.And you?
Interesting. Hey, look over there. The dance floor is already packed with people. Oh, the girl in red dances great.
Julia, what time is it?
sure. I'd like to see the smallest camcorder that you have first.
It's good. By the way, what kind of clothes do I have to bring with me?
I'm afraid not. He's in jail for house-breaking at the moment.
sounds great. Are there many business opportunity?
Excuse me. Where is Q-Duck? I remember it was around the second intersection of this street.
Some grape juice would also be nice.
Do you have any seat preferences, sir?
It’s to the east of Tiananmen Square.
Mum, when will we have them again?
No. Mine are a soft brown. Yours are khaki.
OK, sir. I have added your name to the waiting list.We will call you as soon as possible.
No upgrade of any kind. And where might you be going?
Hi, Mike, where are you going?
For two weeks. After that you must renew the books if you wish to keep them longer.
That is, your commission.
Is today OK?
I have to see my daughter.
I think one of the back ones at the top is giving me the most trouble.
Hi! Tom. Fancy seeing you here It's a nice party isn't it?
Our national economy is increasing hand over fist.
Yeah, definitely! Thanks for inviting me.
I don't know what we need.
Oh, yes. I remember your company.
This apartment is wonderful.
I ’ ll pay it as soon as possible.
Okay, that's clear enough. Let's move on to the other terms.
Do you plan to pursue further education?
That will be best. I'd like to have a good rest first.
I am reading the book on patent and I think it will be helpful for my work
Yes, I do. I don't like it very much.
It deserves. That film can give us a lot of inspiration.
On top of that, she didn't seem to have any sense of people's personal space.She didn't keep enough distance between us during the meeting.
you ’ d better wait, the gums are swollen. Take the medicine I prescribe and come back in three days.
Maybe. Oh. I see the Jungle Flying Train. I once rode it.It was very exciting.
I'm surprised you don't use more of the features on your phone.
That new Sony camcorder you've got is just beautiful.
Yes. That's true. We are always busy. The company attaches great importance to high efficiency. Sometimes we have to work overtime, but not always. And we have extra pay for extra work.
Welcome to Super Stereos. What can I do for you?
I admire your energy, Ruth. You are young at heart.
For a local paper in York called the York Herald. Actually, I started with them as an intern in the beginning. I was really keen on getting some experience in the journalistic world, and this seemed like a good first step.
Not bad. I ’ m proficient in both written and spoken English.
It's the truth. I am really happy.
Well, I'm afraid we've had a slight delay.
Hello, this is the apartment manager speaking.
What if old people are in poor health and need to be looked after?
Of course! Make yourself at home.
Morning Sally! What's up? you seem in a hurry!
That ’ s fine. Please call again later.
That's 35 yuan each.
How long have you been on your current job?
Good morning. I ’ m thinking about buying some new furniture for my living room. Could you help me?
Well, we can see it for ourselves.Did she tell you when we can go and look at it?
Thanks a lot for having us. We had a good time.
Sometimes you look like brains, and sometimes you are simple a Barbie Doll.
Why can't we?
Yes, he's too old to believe in that type of things. And I'd rather tell him before the kids at school do.
Have a guess.
Most of our clients prefer nonsmoking. Now, does a queen sound okay?
The trainer tells me, besides regular sports activities, I should also have a healthy and balanced diet.
I can fit you in on that day at 10
Are they quiet rooms?
I'm afraid we can't increase salary this year, money is just too tight.
No, but is it possible for me to add channels later?
Think of a deep bathtub that you can swim in, but against a current.
This is Lucy White. Thank you. Bye.
I ’ d like to. But I ’ m afraid I can ’ t.
I'll keep that in mind.
I ’ m sure that the boy will become nobody when he grows up.
I tell you what, 8: 00 is no good for me, but why don't you guys get started and I'll come by at around 8: 45 or so.
No one really did. They were very discreet and professional at the office.
Just some water, please. Do you have any ointment for my nose? It feels so itchy after blowing my nose so much.
But your company is huge. Can't they afford to pay the staff decent wages.
Lots. Looks like I'll have to moonlight for the next two years.
They usually go on for ages.
I don't like going to the theatre.
Your doctor has requested a urine sample.
I can do this for you. Don't worry.
Hey, look! They ’ re playing reruns of the 1996 Olympics.
My boss offered me a promotion, and I took it.
Thank you very much. I will devote all my efforts to my work.
How often do you have English lessons?
I need to place an order for a couple of sandwiches and drinks. Can you deliver?
I prefer this kind of style. Can you make it for me?
Yes. I'll just have my assistant look over these quickly and then we'll move on to the next step. Did you want to open up a checking account and a savings account?
All right, let's fix it at 450 pieces then. And for every additional 50 pianos sold, we'll give you 1 % higher commission.
How am I going to get home?
Yes.What will you do this weekend?
Absolutely not. The windows must be measured, and then the curtains need to be made professionally. So that will take a while. Maybe a month or so.
Hello, I've got a letter here that I'd like to post.
Hello. I am calling about the apartment you advertised.
Oh, I know exactly where that is.
Yes, simple as it is. t does work.
I wanted to, but I knew that if I spoke to her, I'd just blow up at her, so I decided to just go home. I called her later that night, but she didn't answer the phone.
This is the specialty of our restaurant, sir.
It begins at 7 p. m..
I believe there are still two Psychology classes open.
I'll need your Bank Card, please. Your Bank Book is required for over the counter services ; with the ATM you just need to have your card.
Yeah. But in my heart of hearts, I find he ’ s not very much to my liking.
Yes, I am. When is the wedding?
Yes, I think I will do something new. I ’ Ve always wanted to be a teacher. I ’ m willing to begin studying to teach.
No problem. Now, do you prefer working with others or flying solo?
I know that magazine. It’s very popular.
How does Friday sound?
What qualities do you think an advertising planner should have?
do you want a one-to-one private tutor or a group class?
I thought it would have been more fun if I went without my parents.
Good evening, Mr. Taylor. I'm so glad you were able to come.
Surely I want. It's quite popular nowadays.
In fact, in order to burn up your fat, you must take it slowly for a longer time.
What's on today?
You see, we are tourists whose requests are different, so please tell me more about it, will you?
I find Beijing Opera is quite a bore.
So beat the cat, but don't kill it.
I wear size 36. This pair looks nice. Can I try them on?
Oh, yes, it does. Look, here it says that the CD-ROM is built-in!
No problem. How would you like your suit?
Okay. Have it your way, but don't say I didn't warn you.
I'm sorry. I just can't imagine you lifting weights.
Retail price is 29.95 per unit. We take into consideration changes in supply cost when figuring this price.
Oh, yes, of course. I'm sorry-I wasn't thinking...
That's too bad. So, what did you ask for Christmas this year?
So when you Chinese think of Chinatown, you mostly think of food. Is that right?
There are student passes.
Are the kids in Taiwan very obedient?
Oh, that means soup of the day. I'll ask the waiter what they have today. Have you tried mussels cooked the Italian way? They're really delicious.
So I can attend conferences and do business on that visa?
What a party! I hope you don ’ t expect the girls to fish.
But how can you live nineteen years without ever washing clothes?
What are the accesses of the job ads?
I can see by your resume here that you studied business administration.
I'll call again in thirty minutes.
Mmm, how much is a return ticket?
my pleasure! This tea towel ’ s a little ragged. Do you have another one?
Really? You have that much faith in me? And Giovanni agreed to it? Does he know who I am?
It is the most expensive.
That's fine. I'll get on with that for you right now.
No, madam. Not very much.
"I agree. But even though I like comedies, I usually prefer more serious films. My favorite movie is "" Titanic. """
Mom, what are you doing?
I mean look at all these magnificent buildings around us.
Be confident. Wear styles you ’ re going to be comfortable in.
Do you have the eggs with the red yolk?
Oh, no. Rocky is a pilot.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. You can go on a holiday cheer you up.
Good evening. Welcome to Mansion Hotel.
Hello, is John in?
Well, yes. I don't mind admitting that I am. I enjoyed school, but I did object to having to go in every day once we've done all our exams.
Oh, that's right. You are supposed to deliver a brief on that account tomorrow. I know there are some things I need to share with you about that. But, gosh, I don't know... Things are really busy for me today, the only time I can manage to squeeze out might be over lunch break...
Nice to meet you, John.
this is tough to say, Jordan, but I think we should break up.
Sure. There ’ s a lot here in this pamphlet.
It began the night before last.
Miao Ping, if I do decide to go ahead, how will the interest if I exceed be counted?
No, not yet. I ’ m still looking. I ’ Ve been doing some work through a temp-agency though.
Yes, yes, I want to take you to dinner.
I'm in pretty bad shape, Dr. Ford.
Because it is convenient and good for environmental protection.
Not too tight in the waist?
Yes, sir. What time would you like your table, sir?
How long have you been in England?
I'd like to find a job with flexible hours in the IT field.
She ’ s your mother!
So everybody's getting video mail.
I see. What about transport? How does Shanghai compare to London?
yes. In fact if you look at my resume, you can see that I was a manager before I started this job.
Good thing you told me.
Sounds interesting. What about this?
Well, let ’ s have a look. Open wide. Hmm... this doesn ’ t look good. Well, it looks like you have a cavity and your crown is loose. We ’ ll need to put in a filling before it gets any worse, and the crown probably needs to be refitted. I ’ m going to order some x-rays.
Well, I am spending my vacation here and I have a stomachache and...
You should study in the library the way I do. Think of the money you ’ d save.
How would you like your steak done?
Yes. Put them on there please.
I would like to take my vacation next month.
You ’ d better hurry!
I agree. It makes it difficult to breathe.
There is a new horror flick about a rapist serial killer.
Three, you also should take two three-credit-course in education department.
Well, it seems that I should do some jogging from tomorrow on.
OK, I promise. You promise you will be well soon?
No, no way! What happened? Give me my money!
Not all of it.
Oh Andrea, the Spanish girl?
Yes, on Monday.
That sounds good. But I have a proposal now.
Hello. Could you have a taxi pick me up before 10:00 a. m.?
Jess? Well, she ’ s very smart, and has a great sense of humor. She ’ s very feminine...
How have you been doing?
Well, I go to the gym a lot. I am a member of a gym nearby.
Thank you, sir. Have a nice day.
I am so honored to hear that. Well, after staying here for several days, you must have some ideas about our company. We have been in the clothes field for many years, and yours brand is also well-known in the country. How about our cooperation?
it's a lovely day out today, isn't it?
Perhaps I should have a try.
Great. Here's my Visa Credit Card.
I like the fact that I get to work with people. It makes the day go by much faster.
Well, I don't know.
Get out of my store, you jerk!
I am going to register at Harvard next month.
She spends less time outdoors and she used to. we have no idea where she goes. She ’ s very secretive. Occasionally, she brings back a dead mouse.
Now can you tell me if you have a good command of both written and spoken English?
In my mind, salary is not the most important thing.
What kind of guarantee are you going to provide for us?
It’s all right. Where are you going?
"What do you think of this one? It's a 16 "" pan."
Actually, I haven ’ t been sleeping well. I am kind of out of it.
Because you can use your bus pass as many times as you want.
Yeah, it's lovely, but to be frank, it's not the most practical. You don't have many formal events in your calendar, do you?
Not really, panda is my favorite animal.
Glad to meet you.
Yeah, she is so charming. I like her, too.
I'll try to speak in another language or I'll try my best to use gestures and draw pictures.
Anything strange about that?
You're going to have coffee, aren't you?
Of course we have lots of teas?
Let me tell you. First you must buy a ticket.
How mush would it cost if someone parks here for one hour and ten minutes?
Front Desk, may I help you?
Can I come round to see him tomorrow?
Did you see the robbery?
I ’ Ve already voted.
Have you a garment?
Yes, I am wondering if I can join the sightseeing tour in your hotel.
Could I see both of them?
Then stay away. No one is keeping you from doing that.
Is a family like yours common in South Korea?
And what did you do? Did you play cards, too?
It was very good. I followed it right to the end.
We take very good care of this particular pump. It's a crucial part of our process. We clean it and flush it through at the end of every shift, We check the high pressure seals, recalibrate the gauges and lubricate all moving parts weekly. We replace the gaskets every month.
Look at this survey conducted by a website. A quarter of the employees will spend an average of 10 minutes everyday online doing personal things. Hi, Francis, what about you?
You should know about the oil crisis.
I found cockroaches in my room.
Wait until you see what happens next! The bride is getting ready to throw her bouquet. Let's go over and watch.
That would be nice.How are you getting there?
OK class, so today we are going to continue with our anatomy class, today we will review everything we have learned. Can anyone tell me what the first major organ is?
Ok, I've entered my PIN. There are several options on the screen. I guess I just choose which service I want, don't I?
Do you think advertising has an influence on the choices you make when you're shopping?
You want something to drink?
Do you mind taking a photo for me?
What! One hundred U. S. dollars.Is it covered by the insurance?
You have asked me several times about it. You are driving me up the wall.
What's the matter with you? You are the one that persuaded all of us to go there.
I hope I can go to your party.
Oh, my God, that hurts!
Anything good for this evening?
How do we get started?
Hurry up, will you? We ’ ll have to go to the gas station first.
Should we ask Cindy to come along? She saw the evening gown made of silk last month that she wanted to buy very much. She didn't buy it of course. It would cost her three months ’ salary.
Where is my back pack?
Me, too. I miss you. Are you any better?
Good.Red suits me very well.It ' s a cheerful color, isn't it?
And thanks to you.
Well missy, the white smoke that you saw is steam from the radiator. You overheated your engine so now the pistons are busted and so is your transmission. You should have called us and we could have towed you over here when your car died.
We often ignore the acknowledgments in our daily life, and consider them as disposable.
This one is the latest. How do you like it?
Well, apparently, he was just getting into his car-he'd parked it in one of those underground multi-story things-he was just getting in and suddenly three guys with guns opened the back doors of the car and got in.
what kinds of tv programmes do you enjoy watching?
Hold on a minute, please.
May I see your ID, please, Mr. Sandals?
It quite suits me. I am free in the evening these days, I will have no difficulty starting at five pm.
Just a moment, sir. We have to finish filling out the forms.
Luckily that was nothing serious.
the conference are truly remarkable.
In fact, in the past we only attended local exhibitions.
Why don't you go to see the Empire State Building?
Many oil painting exhibitions are there. That is a kind of Museum Exhibition.
It's too small for me to wear.
Who is the next one?
Would mornings or afternoons be best for you?
I think it is time to study. Our chemistry exam is coming.
You can keep the apartment if you stay caught up on your rent. Otherwise, I need to find someone who can make the payments.
But I actually dislike another lady. She is more capable and seems to have ideas of her own. But the trouble is she Isa backseat driver with some of us. She would tell you what to do and where to put things.
I'll never hurt you ; I'll never lie.
Thanks John, and there you have it! Looks like It’s a weekend to stay at home!
I guess that explains why you are afraid of flying, but public speaking is not that bad.
I don't know. I think you might be over the hill.
Thank you very much, sir.
Has someone already helped you?
Does this fashion really fit my figure?
do you take cream or sugar with your tea?
How long has it been?
Say it! What is it?
The starting monthly salary would be ¥ 2,000, with rises after the half year according to your competence.
I almost forget.
Me, too. Now let's make a list for what we need to take with us.
it's not about pay raise or promotion. You know, I hate getting up early in the morning and coming back home late at night.
We need to figure out how much money we've spent and what we've spent it on.
That's amazing, it even shows all the roads that are congested at the moment.
It's a good idea.
DVD? Isn't that like a CD?
yes, I've read them many times. I think it's much easier to follow for people who were already familiar with all the characters.
Oh, yes, speaking of fruit, bring me some grape juice, too.
Yes, I checked again and again, but I can't find it. By the day after tomorrow, can I have the ticket reissued?
Yes, the address is 541 Main street.
Is there any particular brand you like, sir?
I am looking for a host home.
Yes. What's this made of and how to wash it?
I had a headache this morning. I didn ’ t pay attention to it. I thought probably it is because I didn ’ t sleep well. But now it is getting worse and worse. I feel quite dizzy now and my eyes are somehow very light-sensitive. Maybe it is the migrated.
No, please feel free.
Well, we accept your suggestion.
Happy birthday, Lillian. Here's a little present I bought for you.
What sports do you like to play?
Good afternoon, how can I help?
Wow. You are a real snake.
Will you give me a hand, sir?
OK, when will this remittance arrive?
Oh, Penny, I'm Leonard, glad to meet you.
Don't you think these festivals are more interesting!
It's nice and bright today, isn't it?
I know, but geology of the American west is my major interest and I have done a large reading in the field.
Good evening, I'm so happy you could come.
So soon! Well, I'd really like to see you again before you leave. Would you like to go out with me on Friday? I'd like to take you to dinner and maybe a movie or something afterwards.
I've heard. She looks quite depressed.
It sounds great. I will arrange an interview tomorrow. Can you come tomorrow?
What kinds of things do you like to do?
The lady at the desk, Shelly I think, told me you offer many other consultancy services.
How do I know if it's blown out?
I couldn't make it.
I don't think this mall has a leather goods store.So we have to go to State Street.
I didn ’ t know you were working there this year.
Do you have any English newspapers?
Don ’ t dress like that. You ’ ll make fool yourself. You look stupid in that robe.
John, It’s time to get up.
He's lazy. I tried being a good host, but if you give him an inch, he'll take a mile.
No! Since you are washing delicates and cotton, you should set the dryer to medium heat and for twenty minutes.
What upsets you?
Regrettably, we're currently out of filet mignon. May I suggest the porterhouse instead?
I will! I ’ ll feed it, bathe it and walk it every day! We can get a Labrador or a German Shepard!
Oh. Who is the artist?
Call me Mr. Smith.
Anne! I haven't seen you for ages. How've you been?
Yes, it is.It was taken just before I was leaving for college.
No, don't be sorry. It's reasonable to ask your friends.But believe me, most of the students here in the university--Asian students included--most of them use Apple.
I had a terrible quarrel with my neighbor yesterday.
Oh, I think I broke my leg.
Nothing, thanks. I am just not in the mood these days.
I ’ m sure I ’ ll like it here.
it's an Egyptian carpet. The student came to my office the other day and brought the carpet to show his gratitude. Seeing what gift was, I was really uncomfortable. I mean it's too expensive a gift
I hope this flight is not just a one-time affair, that it does re-ignite people's interest to push on. But only time will tell.
I'm sorry for the miscalculation. Here's the new bill. Would you mind checking it again?
You know what, last night I almost got hit by a vase falling from the third floor.
I am so happy for them.
Yes, actually, the song has been sung since its publication in 1932.People all over the world have sung it in many different languages.
Of course, it is much better than just giving us some reading materials or information via the internet.
One last question
Is there any way of ensuring we'll have enough time for our talks?
Well, in the feudal society, emperors had supreme power, so his residence was certainly a forbidden palace.
OK, can you bring me a new one?
Your passport will be ready in a few weeks.
The motor vehicles division. I work in our Belgian factory. We manufacture components for our car production plants in Europe.
Don't you know you will look like a monster in the blackout?
Alright, all joking aside, what kinds of moves do you like?
Oh, he's my uncle.Come to my house at seven this evening. I'll introduce you to him.
We propose to deliver 50 % in June and the balance in Aug.
What courses did you minor in?
It's raining heavily.
Excuse me, would you tell me how to return to Hilton Hotel. I'm afraid I lost my way.
Wait a minute. Cal's bar?
Do you have these shoes in a size 7?
So I can have a special place to hang out with friends, and also do some barbecuing on weekends.
How's the bride-to-be?
Yes, ma'am. He died from complications of stomach cancer. I'm very sorry.
I need a suggestion for a restaurant here in Manhattan.
Thank you. I am very happy to have my own office now. I ’ Ve never had one before. It is very nice.
Stay away from fried foods. Fried foods are fried in oil or fat.
I would like to help you with both.
Me, too. There was always a good round of applause every time she sings.
All right.Take a seat, please.Would you like to be a shop assistant or a cashier?
My pleasure. Have you seen the movie yet?
Do you have any carry-on luggage?
What ’ s the life expectancy in your country?
Good morning, sir! Can I help you?
Yes, he is. Of course he makes mistakes, but who doesn ’ t.
I really can't stand going to parties.
How do you get along with others?
Oh, it's for my brother. The little boy over there. He is getting a carsickness.
It was seven feet tall.
The style of the exterior is just what I ’ Ve been looking for!
You mean Lily ’ s boyfriend?
What ’ s your problem?
The garden looks lovely when the roses are in bloom. You must have a lot of pleasure in planting flowers.
Try listening to some soft music.
Okay, finally I understand. You would like souvenirs!
How long will you stay there?
Come on! Rest breads rust.
I guess you're right.But like you said, you called me here to check me out. I've been doing the same.
When you are choosing what to wear, keep all of that in mind. Have you chosen what to wear?
I'm going crazy.
I can't believe you wear jeans to the office! Are you trying to lose your job?
I didn ’ t receive my polling place in the mail.
That's very sensible. Would it be alright if I left early today to prepare for the trip?
I ’ m sorry. This number has already been registered.
Yes. How about donating some money?
I took a few diving classes, but I didn't really like it, so I did snorkeling instead!
According to the kilometer rate, the first five kilometers are 4 dollars and every kilometer extra costs 50 cents.
Would you want to live there?
All my children are large.
I've always admired this movie.
No more today, honey.
how about you? What's your favorite sport of all time?
Oh, yeah, while he was eating, and he was a pretty famous Don.
Yes, I can help you with that. Pick up the receiver and hit one of the buttons. Do you hear a tone?
I don't have the foggiest idea.
we would, but let's just go and see if there's an opening now before it gets worse.
Yes. I ’ ll do it tomorrow.
What breakfast foods?
Actually, I don't think you can call the police. Not yet at least.He hasn't done anything. And probably the police will just ignore it.But if anything happens again, then maybe you should call.
Let ’ s hit the whirlpool for a bit. It ’ ll help me loosen up.
Could you tell me something about your English education?
Excuse me sir. May I come in?
No problem at all. I won't keep you any longer. I'll put a package to you in the mail and we'll go from there.
I can let it go at $ 900 a month.
Congratulations! I knew you could do it.
My character is in question. Someone was robbed at work and unless I have an alibi, I'm a suspect.
When we finally decided to ask someone, they told us we were in Grangerfield.
I see. What is it exactly that you are interested in?
Wow, you're really informative. Thanks a lot.
Oh, that's simple enough.
I think It’s too expensive. I can just give you 4 yuan. Or I ’ ll go to another B.
OK, well, let me just get my coat and we'll go to the diner around the corner.
but it looks good. Let me try it on.
Thank you for inviting me.
See you in the court.
Would you tell me the name of the book and the author?
What was the weather like yesterday?
I ’ m not surprised. That article certainly added fuel to the debate. Ok. Thanks. Can you leave two articles and the advertisements with me? I ’ d like to read them.
May I recommend the popular route? It's a seven days ' trip and cost $ 500.
Certainly. I prefer the winter and I love plum blossoms much more.
For example, some countries restrict imports by quantitative restriction.
I guessed it.
About my driving test, did I do well?
Yes, a camera bag, a travel bag and a suitcase.
Nicholas? Nicholas Nickleby? No. He doesn't live here any more. He's moved to Morecambe.
Can ’ t be better, it was wonderful. We had a lot of fun there. There was so much joy and walk and breathe the winter air. We arrived at the park at 9 o ’ clock in the morning and didn ’ t leave till 3 o ’ clock in the afternoon.
Yes, just once.
Hi, charlie, are you busy this evening?
It sounds good. I'd like to start with a Compare.
This is green tea, you can drink it in summer. It can relieve summer-heat and it is good for maintaining your lungs.
First, I am going to get ready for the parade, I have a great costume. Then later today, I am going to church. If you want, I can give you a costume, and you can be at parade too. It will be fun
You mean you've never had a boyfriend?
Yes, it is. But I'm afraid we haven't met before.
Ms. : Let me give you a hall pass for it.
do you think this music is warm matched?
Excuse me, could you tell me which line I ’ m supposed to stand in to buy bubble wrap and to post a package?
How much is that one?
Don't worry, it should have been protected automatically. And I take an anti-virus software with me. Do you want me to install it now?
Well, then, you need an introduction. The school drama club is putting on a musical production. How about going together?
This room is unfit for humans. I want another room, and I want a refund for tonight.
I would like to check out a book.
Oh, sorry to hear that. Listen, I ’ Ve got a rush order. Can you help me out?
Let ’ s go to Chicago. We can have lunch in Chinatown. Then we can go to a ball game at Wrigley Field!
What do you like to drink?
Yeah? All right. Thanks, Susan.
What is available?
No. It's not far at all.
if you can choose, will you marry a foreigner or a Chinese?
This is Wang Ling speaking.You satisfy all the requirements. Congratulations! You're hired.
Mr. Wang, have you enjoyed your stay here?
You can rest assured of that.
Have you any experience as a tourist guide?
May I have a look at that vase, please?
Well, that's a thing.
You and your fancy Italian names.
That ’ s right. Plus, I agree with his policies.
But I don't think it's so nice.
Hello, this is Lucy from ABC Company. Is this Monica?
For our errands, and maybe a little extra for something from a vendor on the street.
Yes, he has been like that since his accident.
I didn ’ t know you were a twin! Are you identical or fraternal?
That's very nice of you. I guess I could use some help.
Ok with me. You are the boss. I will meet you downstairs after work.
I usually play chess with my friends. But I like playing basketball best.
It's still stocked, and there's plenty of ice. Here you are-cheers!
Hey, did you hear the news?
It's just a piece of paper, you think that they can tell if I am a well-rounded person by looking at it?
No, I didn ’ t. I gave them a really good clean, so they just look new. The worktop was in poor condition, so I had a new one added.
OK. I hope you have a good trip. Thanks ever so much for your cooperation, Mr. Simpson. Give my best wishes to Mr. Green.
How much do you spend on development every year?
It's just around the comer.
I was thinking about this afternoon, after the sales meeting.
Lincoln. That's L-I-N-C-O-L-N. Thank you.
Let me see. It's five minutes to eleven.
Hello, Room Reservation Service. May I help you?
Check out these wheels!
Well, it's good in style, but I am afraid it doesn't wash well.
Why is it called Autumn Moon over the Calm Lake?
If you can ’ t afford $ 1050, then we have no deal.
Yes.Do you have football stockings here?
This particular test calls for you to urinate into the cup after you have urinated a little into the toilet.
Great! This is my first visit to the Fair. Everything is new to me. Would you please give me some information?
Does it come with a frame?
It’s mostly on my right side. Right here!
What's the postage on these letters to hongkong, please?
No, but my little brother likes it very much.
I asked you if you wanted some help.
Fine! How are you?
I believe they add locally produced honey to it.
Fill it up. I will have a tour tomorrow.
My name is Mary Jones, that's M-A-R-Y J-O-N-E-S.
We'd like to. Can you tell me when we go?
I know. But why are you suddenly interested in lessening your salt intake?
Oh, sorry.It stands for the Museum of Modern Art. It's an acronym. M O M A MYOMA.
By the way, do you know that our company just made some changes in the business trip policy?
Then you must be interested in disco.
Oh, yes, here it is.
I see, you have seven candles on the cake.
Where do you see yourself three years from now?
It’s easy enough. Just make sure you keep track of all your expenses. The accounting department will reimburse you for all your meals and travel expenses.
Kobe came to Beijing during this summer's Olympics. Did you go to the match between China and USA?
So, I went up to the teller and started to exchange the money. And it's true.They really gave me sixty pesos for the dollar.
I see. Another important question is the time I can get this car. I need a new car rather soon.
Hmm... well, the other one is good for the money. It's much cheaper. We sell clot of them and all our customers are satisfied with them.
Well, I am sorry you have to leave so early.
Sure, more elegant and taller.
How do I use the lotion?
that ’ s a good idea. Put your keys in the ignition, start it up, put the car in reserve, wait for the road to be clear, and then back out of the driveway.
Here's your drink, sir.
I ’ m worrying about how to move all of my household stuff. You know, I have a lot of stuff.
When I fill out the Continued Claim Form, what will I need to tell them?
I would like for you to come in and talk about a few more tests that I would like to run.
About 6:00.
Julia, what's the weather forecast for tomorrow?
How long would you like your haircut today?
Yes. Let me get you a pair.
OK. May I see your ID card? ( B passed his ID card. ) Please wait for a moment. Let me go and check the account. ( A few minutes later. ) We have locked your card. You can come here to renew the account and get a new card a week later. Your money will not be lost.
that's a good idea. Do they usually accept the food?
What number are you trying to dial?
It’s 7 p. m. today.
You won't make it through the day without breakfast.
Anything for you. Seriously, I don ’ t mind helping.
I'm terribly sorry, Mr Miller, but Mr. Zhang is really busy this week.
I am considering going for the new job that was posted yesterday.
I see how that can get a bit annoying.
You can have a room on the second floor.
That's a bit high for lasagne. I'll just set it at 180 degree and we can take it from there.
Good afternoon. May I help you?
It's 671029, my birthday. Silly to choose such a simple one, I suppose!
What did you buy?
When you made your appointment, what day did you choose?
You would have to use the computer lab. I'm sorry for the inconvenience.
Nice to meet you, Austin.
Is this the A housing office?
What has made you so happy?
I lost track of time, am I late?
Ok, Ma'am. Calm down, 15 dollars will do.
Is the pay good?
Kathy! How are you? It's been ages! What are you doing these days?
You fill in the hours and total them for the week. Have you ever used a 24 hour clock?
What can wearing one do for me?
Yes, will this do?
She is also very naughty. By the way, do you have a dog, Maria?
It sure is hot. Why don't we go in the Haunted House? At least it will be air conditioned.
Maybe you're right.
Thank you, Doctor. Goodbye.
I need a phone card for this new cell phone.
Certainly. May I see your social security and your ID Please.
I smoke around 30 each day.
It's very nice. I haven't heard live music in a while. This is fun.
You're welcome. By the way, is there a pay phone near here?
Our son is gone and my heart is gone too. I don ’ t know how to spend the rest of my years.
I have been feeling great, Dr. Smith.
Yes, and you must be James. It's nice to meet you at long last.
Have you watched the TV series, Humble Abode?
Hey, Paul, why the long face?
How long have you been study in German?
Sorry, we have two Smiths, Robert Smith and Jim Smith, which one would you like to speak to?
they look delicious. I think she'll be pleased.
Great, what's the rate per day?
Excuse me, I want to go to Galion by ship. Is there a ship to Dalian?
I know, I know. I am really trying, but I don ’ t have the willpower to just quit. I can ’ t fight with the urge to reach for my pack of smokes in the morning with coffee or after lunch! Please understand?
I don ’ t think you guys have it.
Good morning! The Inland hotel. How may I help you?
Do you think that I should get a new wardrobe?
Thank you, please fill out this form for us.
Well, we have a package tour there.
Cash or charge?
I was impressed that you tried the pig's feet. I heard that many foreigners don't like to eat them.
What is your father doing now?
Well, Ted, this is a very impressive resume. However, we do have several other applicants to finish interviewing before we can make a final decision. We ’ ll call you by Friday, if that ’ s all right.
There's just going to be 6 of us tonight.
I know. And you can also hear outside noises while you listen to music.
On my first trip I went to Tokyo, and on my second trip I visited Kyoto.
I don ’ t see any problem ; only the car is a bit old.
Okay, let's go home.
Do you have a particular style in mind?
One time, I tried garlic ice cream.
Good afternoon. This is Michelle Li speaking, calling on behalf of IBA. Is Mr Meng available at all?
OK, how about 1:30 PM?
I'm grateful to you.
Oh, come on. That's no reason to do something you're not interested in.
Without doubt, rock is trash.
Did that income show up on your last Continued Claim Form?
Certainly. We always have the interest of the customers at heart.
I got a job offer from Dell.
I want to get a puppy for my son.
I study every night.
Yes, we do. I hope we have enough for everyone. Did you send out all your Christmas cards in time?
OK, Sir. Would that be Fixed or Current Deposit?
It's idea of my husband. He is always banging the drum for better schools.
Yes, I am applying on it.
Well, the life style is much more relaxed than here in the city. And the seafood is tastier!
Me, too. I hate to sit there and look at the same stage scenery one scene after another.
Hey, Shirley. The party has been wonderful. My husband and my children have enjoyed it very much, and me too.
Thanks for coming over to help. I really appreciate it.First, could you peel the vegetables? I ’ Ve put them all in the sink and there is a peeler.
And then, ricocheted off her fish bowl. Mrs. Fitzgerald at the last minute dived and saved her fish.
yeah, besides my personal introduction, what else should I prepare?
what happen to all the leftover food?
I majored in English and minored in Chinese.
Next, please. Where to, sir?
I haven't decided yet. What about you, Andy?
The police don't know who did it.
Yeah, but what day are the elections?
How about some Korean food? There's a place right there on the corner.
You can list your education at the top, or choose your job experience to be there if it is more impressive.
Trust me, regular tune ups will keep your car running smoothly and avoid break downs.
Then have you put it in the bedroom?
There is no doubt that the Brazilian team will win.
Oh, that ’ s right. Is that time of the year, huh? That ’ s fine. How about if we meet at 3:30 this afternoon?
That's a good idea. We haven't seen a film for ages. What would you like to see?
Really? Good for you.
I'm having a little trouble with this form.
What about all your money in that account?
Excited about what?
Quite good. The beautiful design and bright color are just the European taste. How are you gonna pack these blouses?
I've got a bone to pick with you over your last shipment to Dalian. A part of the goods were damaged in transit.
What? Come on! That ’ s just lame! No girl would fall for that!
What number is the suspect?
Actually, five and a half.On Saturday, we have classes only in the morning.
I'm afraid Mr.Li is engaged at the moment. Would you mind waiting?
Is this our bus stop?
Oh, that's all right.
Yes, you can. Is that US dollars or HK dollars? Both are available for exchange to RIB. How much would you like to exchange?
Now, many people think that women ’ s liberation is a kind of civilization, but children are getting less love from their mother because of that. What is your opinion?
Excuse me, I couldn't quite hear you. This line is crossed. Can you speak louder, please?
Do you have any other outside income from rental property or a trust?
Yes, it's very important to make an appointment before the interview.
You will be able to track your progress during the year.
This is Mrs Wang, from Jane coper.
Seriously, if we will adopt any animals, we'd gotta to talk to Daniel.
Have you finished your work?
Woo, that's quite convenient.
You're going to make me rich by not paying me?
No, not at all! Just lay back and relax.
May I see your driver's license, please?
We have recently started doing a lot of business with British companies, so we'd like to open a GAP account. How should we go about this?
Is this all right.
Oh, no. We ’ re going to be late for the meeting.
So, you can read and write much better than you speak and understand other speakers, right?
well, I nearly always get up at dawn. I don ’ t like sleeping in late. The days are longer in summer that in winter, so I get up in summer. I usually do some exercise when I get up.
Have you seen a lot of them?
I really need more information about the job before we start to discuss salary. I'd like to postpone that discussion until later. Maybe you could tell me what is budgeted for the position and how your commission structure works.
You can read the newspaper. Maybe it will tell you whether it will snow or not.
Would you be interested in seeing the apartment?
yeah.Oh, here it comes! why don't we watch it together? they are going to have a court debate in this episode. It should be good.
Excuse me. This bus goes downtown, doesn't it?
I let you down. I'll make it up to you somehow.
How do you spell your name, please?
Yes, we do. That's why we have a cleaning every three months.
The way I see it is that they'd join us.
I'll be yours through endless time.
Good idea! Well, Joan, I have something important to tell you.
I hear that some guys splash all their money about on them.
What? I gave it to you only 3 months ago.
He is not young as he looks. I think he's almost sixty.
That's great. I don't suppose the copy machine is free for guests?
You did? But I tried to call you at least twenty times and nobody answered.
You can't do that! You can't charge me for a mistake that you made!
What should I have brought with me?
So the reform can not be carried out well.
Two hamburgers and French fries.
Mr. Robson, I'm sorry. Our computer system is down. Could I call you back later?
Oh, yes, he is two years older than me. He lives in New Zealand so I don't see him that often.
What happened today on the freeway?
Should I arrive early or on time?
Yes, there is, drinking your coffee!
Oh, I'm a little busy these days.
What do you recycle in your plant?
No, exactly not.
I don ’ t know where to get my ballot.
Mom, that's a stupid question.
This is sure to be a worthwhile read.
Let's just say I'll have it easy...
I'm looking for a string of pearls for my wife.
That sounds very general.
We have decided to go to the park this Sunday. Would you like to go with us if you have not decided yet?
O. K. Here ’ s a receipt for store credit. Just take it back to the stereo section and one of our salesmen will help you.
Right here! It hurts right here!
Nah! This is boring! I ’ m gonna go play Killer Zombies on my PlayStation!
I can't catch the bus with you anymore.
May I see your library card, please?
No, I'm not sure. But I usually take out my wallet when I sit down.It ' s uncomfortable to sit on it. So I usually put it next to me on the table.
It's very good, and the result isn't too bad.
Can I see some men's watches?
I think you are looking at the wrong line. The rapid drop in sales wasn't our hair products. You are correct, the hair product sales decreased slightly, but not dramatically. The one that didn't do so hot this month was the cleaning products. I think there was a problem in the marketing plan. Some people were offended by our advertisements for the cleaning products, but it was already too late to mitigate the damage, so our mistake shows up in the sales.
We have a very wide selection of colors. And our eye shadow is specially designed to moisturize the skin. So it is very gentle on your eyelids. Would you like to sample some?
I think the most important thing is that you should be nice to yourself, like keeping housework simple, spending money on things that make life easier, buying yourself things you like, and so on. You can only be nice to others when you can be nice to yourself.
I'm rather hungry now.
Fill it up. Super Unleaded.
Maybe you should go and look in the refrigerator.
What? What ’ s the good news?
I really don ’ t know that much about putting together a resume.
Okay. Can I also have a sheet of 20 sixty-four-cent stamps?
Yes, and it's extremely simple. All you need to do is make a Network Settlement Agreement with us.
Yes, I would like to.
You are always like this. I've told you many times not to tell her.
Not bad.How about you? Haven't seen you for a long time.
I am looking forward to returning to this restaurant.
How about the price?
What? You haven ’ t taken the bus before?
Sure, Stacy. Let me just grab my coat.
I'm a great driver.
I'm finished.
Actually, I recommend you take Shakespeare sooner rather than later.
Oh, that's deer horn. That helps you... umm, how should I put it?
Heard what? No one ever tells me anything.
Do you want the truth?
You must provide full original set of ocean bills of lading original insurance policy or certificate and the original commercia invoice.
Many people say it's a good story.But I think it's boring!
How much is all that? I don ’ t have much cash. Can I give you a check?
Would you like to choose a chicken?
Well I ’ Ve always been keen on writing, so I became the editor for the University student magazine, which I really loved. Also I volunteered for a group called Shelter, to help the homeless in York.
John, could you come to my office? I need to talk to you.
A trip to the beach would be fun. How is the weather going to be?
Let's go to the animal shelter.
Good morning. I'm interested in antiques. Do you have any?
Have you heard that new song by the Beastie Boys?
The car has very sleek lines. I love it.
I had a wonderful experience with scientists.
We can also put a guest book on the website for people to sign and write comments.
May I order, please?
I'm sorry, but Mr. Johnson is out at the moment. Can I take a message?
Take your time. When you need anything, just call me.
How many more games are left this season?
Exactly. With DEL you don't have that problem.
I'll try to read one.
I don't think so. It is a little too formal. I'm probably going to wear something more laid back.
What is your hobby?
Why ’ s that?
So I'd rather walk or run to work.
Fine, thanks. I ’ m having several friends over for dinner this Saturday. And I was wondering if you have the time to join us.
Here's ten pounds. Keep the change.
Don ’ t worry, you did a good job and it should be fine.
( She probed my teeth and checked my gums. ) Well, it looks like you have a cavity and your crown is loose. We need to fill that cavity before it gets any worse and the crown needs to be refitted. Make an appointment for next week and I'll take care of them.
Well, I can teach you how I make them, which is the same way my father and grandmother make them, which is a little special.
That ’ s great. If you don ’ t mind my asking, does your company give bonuses?
How long will it take to make five hundred?
Give me some glasses please, Jane.
rabbits aren't usually that affectionate, are they?
Oh, you've already grown up, son.
we could take the subway, but we'd have to go three stops along one line and then change trains twice.
We have a beautiful selection of eye shadows this fall. Look at the colors. Aren't they beautiful?
Thank you. Just a moment, please.
You should go get yours.
That ’ s pretty chilly for the summer! Will it rain on Saturday?
Sure thing. Here we are.
Certainly, sir. We hope you have a good trip.
Am I in the Twilight Zone? You're charging me for a movie I never saw?
She isn't messing up in class?
Alright. Have you been to see a doctor?
It’s about time!
You haven't? They have a lot of good stuff.
Is this the right counter to check in for this flight?
In 1997 - when it was bought by a German company. They set up two more business in the UK.
Actually, I ’ Ve got something scheduled on Monday. Can she do Tuesday?
About five times a week. What about you?
Here you are. Can I have a larger envelope to put my valuable things in it?
Well, I didn't leave the turkey out at room temperature for more than a an hour and I refrigerated it soon after we finished eating. Also, when reheating, I put it in the oven for fifteen minutes at one hundred degrees Celsius.
ok. Just call me if you need anything then.
No, I'm not. I try and try and I still can't speak it very well.
Yeah, I saw that. I thought you were playing a game with them.
Oh dear. Well, get well soon and try to be more careful in future.
I've been trying to call you all day.
Did you remember to lock your door before you left then?
My luggage is in the corner over there. They are the leather suitcase, the canvass holdall and the blue backpack.
That's a lot. What did you bring with you?
I am reporting a break-in.
No, I don't know anyone's extension.
When are getting married?
I did. But they said they won ’ t change them.
Believe me, the time will fly by! Before you know it, you'll be changing diapers! You have to start preparing!
No. Wendy is being cremated. She always talked about how she didn ’ t want to be buried. I already chose a cremation urn and we plan to spread the ashes in the ocean.
Not yet. I guess we should send Jim along to talk to the chief since he is such an apple polisher. I am sure he can help.
Maybe you can hire me on trial. If I'm not qualified for the job, you can let me go.
Are you satisfied with your girlfriend?
Are you buckled up?
Don't worry. I will tell him about that.
Maybe we can write a report to the boss to see what can be done.
Well, I'm no movie expert, but those special effects were impressive by any standards.
Here's 30 yuan for my ticket.
All right. Thanks for your help.
I can let you have some silvers if that is good.
I'm going to study.
Thank you vary much.
Thanks for helping me.
That ’ s 545-8897 and your mailing address is 908 Mulbury Street. The zip code is 20310, right?
Sure. It's the third office down this hall. Are you looking for Bob?
Oh, it seems like it was just yesterday.
At once, sir. You'll love this place, I assure you.
A tough job. They even offer in-service training every Wednesday afternoon.
Do you know how to go to the Fragrant Hills in Beijing? I heard that they are very famous in China.
Of course. What do you want to move first?
Yes. There are trains at 7:59, 9:18, and 10:32.
Oh, sure. I'll be back in a minute.
You should take a look at all the companies, choose your favorite ones, go over to talk with the interviewer and leave your resume in the end.
It's more than I can afford. Can I make an offer?
A crate of beer? Why do we need that?
Sure, here you are. And here are my application forms as well.
Yes. It is also called Dragon Boat Festival.
Wow, you're not kidding.Hold on a second.Hello, could you give us a hand, please?
This building is only four years old. It was built with central air.
You'd better prepare what you are going to say in advance, in order to have a good performance in the interview.
That ’ s why It’s become a very popular holiday destination these years. Someone told me the service there is very good too. Are you planning to spend the holiday there?
When you dial 9 and hear the tone change it means you have an outside line. Who are you trying to call?
My grandpa. He has the final word about almost everything. My grandpa is “ President, ” and Grandma is “ Vice-President. ” My parents, uncles and aunts try to arrive at a consensus on important questions.
Have you got the number there?
Well, I would have preferred to do it today, but if you ’ Ve already made plans, we can do it tomorrow.
I don ’ t have the slightest clue.
Does he ask you to pay some fees?
That's amazing! Really? How could it change so much in two days?
No, you don't. We'll take care of it.
I wanted to check rates and availability for your San Francisco location.
How much are you asking?
No. But I thought that you could start with reading and then go from there.
Do you think you can come?
In what denominations?
Fine! By the way would you mind not slurping your coffee every time you have a cup!
Nice to see you, Mrs. Anderson.
Yes, I remember last year this time, the weather is so hot.
I think you ’ ll find that many people believe what they read in gossip columns. You ’ d also have to be very careful about every word you said. If you appeared on a chat show and said something silly, it
well, you have plenty of experience job hunting. I think you'd be the perfect person for the job!
We are all very proud of you.
Nothing much. What's new with you?
I ’ Ve just found a mouse in the house!
Well, he doesn't look very honest.
The radio has brought us lots of convenience.
OK. All the registered airmail packages can be received in 5 working days.
Just come to our house and stay over. You'll sit by his bed and greet him like a beautiful red rose, ' Good morning! '
We do not have the space in our warehouse to store over 5,000 units.
It’s so great to be here! I ’ m so excited to help you and my daughter with your new home!
And which child is this?
Your LC must be opened at least onemonth before the time shipment, otherwise we won't be able to catch the ship.
I ’ m sorry. There ’ s nothing I can do about that. You ’ Ve got to call the phone company.
What is the purpose of your stay?
We haven't decided yet. Could you give us a little longer?
How would you like your steak, rare, medium, or well-done?
Actually me, too.
Sure. I'd be very glad to be your tour guide.
Sure, John Sandals.
OK. Let's do it.
Oh I didn ’ t know you were married.
good morning. I understand that you ’ Ve got a problem with your washing machine. I ’ m from the repair company.
I will be leaving the city soon so I have no need for this account.
Sometimes the men wear flamboyant colours. Which films do you think will win awards this year?
Oh, come on! Just a quick one!
That's great. This is your key, sir. If you need anything at all, anytime, just dial zero.
Ok. I'll stay home this morning and rest, but if I feel better in the afternoon, I'm going to the meeting.
No way! They want publicity for themselves, so that they get invited to make more films, go to lots of cocktail parties, and even make albums! They have such an easy life. They don ’ t even pay for Drin
It’s the same in Balloon. But I definitely think we over-tipped the cab driver. The fare was twenty dollars, and you gave him a five-dollar tip. That ’ s twenty-five percent of the total! Too much!
Not really. I just worked on my car all day.
70 hours? I would be dead if I worked hard like that.
Well, I came to know a girl 3 weeks ago and we have so much in common.
Well sir, I believe your fifth anniversary is a great time to propose!
Hold on a sec, his name is David?
thanks for understanding.
Don ’ t give me your attitude. Please tell me.
Blah... What's that?
Where are you supposed to store things without any cabinet space?
Oh. no. The motor coach is air-conditioned, there is a galley for food preparation, movies or music are available for your entertainment and attendants are there to take care of your every need.
Of course I have.
Yes, that ’ s the price they were advertising it at. I was hoping it might go on sale soon. Why, how much did you pay for it?
Thank you.Just put it on the table.
Very agreeable, Mr. Smith. It will only take me a minute to sign it and send it back to you.
You're not coming?
Nah, I wouldn't worry about that. But I don't want to be the third wheel. You two should have some quiet time to yourselves.
Here, take my credit card.
What's the matter with you, then? You look miserable.
I wonder if you often trade with others on the internet.
It doesn't matter, but leave me some small changes, that will be convenient in daily life.
I have been doing quite well. As reach 90 % and Bs reach 100 %. And I ’ Ve been awarded Zu Jingle Scholarship two times.
I am really not sure.
But you don't have such a problem as to pop songs.
You found an apartment in the ads?
How do you want to spend your old age?
Not hot but warm. Very comfortable.
Please follow the nurse. She ’ ll get you ready.
Do you have anything do declare?
how ’ s it going?
Yes, bacon and eggs with buttered toast. I like my bacon very crisp.
All right. I'll be back right away.
I ’ m going to make sure and get my vote in.
I hear it's Chinese Valentine's Day! Don't you know?
I am so happy I found this class because I was really nervous about my upcoming interview.
Alright, I have an idea.You know he carries that conservative-looking briefcase every day.
Did he know that his grandfather was so wealthy?
Any rain right now would be pointless.
I had to blow my nose.
No strawberries. We'll charge your amenities account, if that's okay.
The New Bar is all techno music on Friday night.You really want to dance to that?
What do I do here?
He was very clever when he was a boy.
Thank you, Alice. Come in to the dining-room. I ’ m going to cut the cake soon. Have some please.
Irene! I heard you were on a date last night! So, how how did it go? I want all the juicy details!
I want to make sure I bring enough money for my date and I.
The classes have him out of the office, so that is stressful for him. But as far as homework goes, it is a breeze for him.
Merry Christmas, Mom. I love you.
What about the hotel accommodations?
The fruit basket was great. I need a few more apples, please.
I have a camera and three bottles of whisky.
Hi, Sam. I want to buy a pet. Do you have any ideas?
First of all, It’s absolutely gorgeous.
Yes, I think even though we are adults, it's still a good place for us to relax.
I wonder how old these things are. Thousands of years?
we waited until our one-year anniversary to go on our honeymoon to Africa.
That sounds pretty good.
I wish I were a hero.
The machine shows it to be counterfeit. You'll need to fill in this form and I'll give you a receipt to show the money has been confiscated.
Smells like you're baking something. What are those?
I'm always feeling hungry.
I think you're right. Aright. Gotta go to class. Thanks for the cigarette. I'll talk to you later.
Tell me how she looks.
Where do you think you lost it? Outside the hotel?
I cant't believe it. You've worked here for years.
Sit down, please. Maybe you have read the contract, but I want to give you the details again before you sign the contract. You must have a three-month internship.
Because I have just retired. I want to buy a small house in the country.
I thought we'll just fix up the wood floor.and use some paint for the walls.
Is there any way to find a roommate to share an apartment with?
What subjects are you studying?
Sure, would you like any appetizers today?
So I was told, yes. They gave me this book?
Okay, I'll do that.
Where do they go?
We can ’ t break into the line. Don ’ t be so impatient. We ’ ll be at the front of the line soon.
How do you feel about wearing name logos or slogans on your clothing?
We've changed the schedule again. I really want to meet with you, Mr. White. I just need some time to sort out my schedule.
I suppose so. That's probably why there are so many wonderful coffeehouses in China now.
Well, when you hear it change, that means you have an outside line. Where are you trying to call?
Fine, but first I need some information about you.
Well, do you have any experience in guiding?
How much do you want to deposit?
I think that I will, thanks.
Beijing Hotel. May I help you?
Which condiment do you use for?
I've been having a hard time sleeping lately.
I'm trying to send the instruction book by E-mail, but I failed many, many times. And there is something wrong with the net maybe. It's so slow.
December the fifteenth. The day after tomorrow is little Tom ’ s birthday.
I'm checking out in about half an hour.
Thank you for telling me that.
Let me have a look at the receipt.
No, I'm stuffed. The check, please.
So you have to work all day.
I don ’ t know. The report says it is better than the old vaccines.
Come on, what have you got to lose?
What do you know? You are over weight too.
I manage one of the ski lodges.It ' s a great job, I can spend a lot of my time outdoors, and I also get to ski for free all season.
Right now I'm learning about the importance of breathing slow, deep and regularly.
You're right. She would never talk about me behind my back or hold a grudge. But she just doesn't seem very interested in our friendship anymore.
I'll look for you at my next party.
Mr Edwards, this is Kristy calling from IBA.
I like sculpture, especially that from ancient rome or Greece. What time are you thinking of going? I ’ d love to go with you.
Let's begin by having you tell me about yourself and your background.
I like to play the piano for fun.
We would also like a piece of chocolate mousse cake. Could you bring us four dessert forks, please?
At 9 thirty-six. And the 9 eighteen gets to London at 9 fifty-five, the 10 thirty-two at 11 nine.
I don't know. I didn't think it was that interesting.
Of course! Will you?
It is, but I can put you on a waiting list, if you would like.
Great! Wait here? You don ’ t have enough room for the amplifiers, microphones or even your drums! By the way where do you keep them or practice?
Kate, I know you ’ Ve been a stewardess for more than one year. And I ’ ll have an interview on stewardess tomorrow. Can you tell me some etiquette about the interview?
So are we. Our counter-offer is in line with the world market.
No. I immigrated here three years ago.
Thank you, you are so thoughtful. I think I could use some beers right now.
I quit just because of the dissatisfying salary and the trouble in getting along with my colleagues.
Don't worry. Maybe I can find a part-time job to increase my income.
The water wagon.
I ’ m afraid not. The tooth is too far gone. it'll have to be taken out.
Twilight? As in the vampire movies? No way, I am watching that, but I don ' t understand why everyone is so excited about these films about vampires. It doesn ' t make sense.
We definitely have to talk, Zina. And watch your back. Elvin is still mad about his nose.
What about your mother?
I inspect the home for problems that might not be all that apparent in a quick walk-through.
No. Now would you like to help me look for the book?
I need a pan.
You can never do that.
It is a good idea. What dish are you cooking now?!
And her voice like a lark's song?
Yeah. How about “ Happy Birthday Tony, from the gang. ”
Well, it's small, but it's a young, dynamic, rapidly-growing company with a progressive, humanistic philosophy.
No. Thanks for reminding me.
Thirty dollars a day.
but it's absolutely our own business to have a child or not.
I ’ m terrible at cards and so I never play games which involve gambling, like poker. If I did, I ’ d lose all my money.
What? That's too much.
Do you speak the language well enough to communicate with people of English-speaking countries?
R is for reverse, P is for park, and D1 and D2 are lower gears for going through snow, or up a steep hill.
All the evidence indicates that you are guilty.
Come in and sit down.
Yes, I'd like to book a room at your hotel.
I would try to land a job in Beijing. I just want to go to one of the big cities.
If I remember right, she likes music, skiing, and reading.
I have puzzled my brain about how to teach the children.
how are you?
I see. What does that include?
Where will you go, sir?
Yes. Look at these historical relics here, amazing!
What aren ’ t you too sure about?
I can ’ t wait to retire.
Jeff, I'm going to the supermarket. Do you want to come with me?
No, it isn't. You always clean it after Mark.
Really? It's a deal. Have you ever been there?
Oh, I'm not sure. What's the difference?
OK. Anything else?
You should put on the black suit I bought for you last week. But I'm afraid it may be a bit crumpled. You'd better iron it now.
I ’ d like to go to the railway station please.
Here's your change. Thank you for shopping with us.
Oh, my goodness. I'm sorry. But I don't think tai chi is to be practiced like that.
Yes, it is lovely. I have been expecting something like this for a long time. Thanks ever so much.
Would you like your bags to be taken to your room?
Yes, it's right over here.
Yes, all their products have warranties.
Sure, we can. You know, we are been in the line for more than twenty years, and I think our price are competitive comparing with those in the world market.
Autumn is also very nice in Washington.
Why use wooden cases?
Never mind. I'll be waiting for you.
Oh, like a gentleman. Two tickets for two people.
Yeah, I agree.It makes you feel really good.
Ahahah, Maybe that will help you lose weight.
The trouble is not that. It is that he may suddenly remember something I promised him a couple of weeks ago, out of a clear blue sky. Then he complains that I have gone back on my words.
It was supposed to be here thirty minutes ago.
I usually take the five thirty home.
I drive an automobile.
How much, please?
I have to run to the grocery store.
Yes, I am James Mason from Anderson and Associates Limited. I would like to see Mr. Smith.
You did? How? Did you wear red underwear again this year?
Which hotel will the reception be held at?
Thanks! We'll sit out there then. We will just order our drinks out there.
Maybe I won't like the taste.
OK. What name, please?
So, tell me, what makes you think we should give you a raise?
I heard that a couple people got hurt.
Oh, no problem.
Thank you! I will. When and where will the dinner be?
OK, Woody. Why are you interested in this job?
What are you doing over the weekend, Sara?
I'm afraid not. We insist on a letter of credit.
The TV flickers a lot when I am watching a movie and at times the image is not very clear.
Well, the cultural differences impressed me most.
Hey! Watch out! You're using the same spoon for both broths!
Yes, I used to work as an assistant lawyer for Tienda Law Office.
We have a variety of transportation services. Would you prefer a private vehicle to a taxi?
Non-smoking is fine, thank you.
I go to the personnel market every day, and put a lot of energy into it.
I agree. I ’ m carry about mice. I think they ’ re so cute!
Thank you! Would you like an aisle seat or a window seat?
Do you take care of them everyday?
Yes, I am, thank you. I'll have three scrambled eggs with country ham, toast and jam, please.
I am glad you like it.
Come on, you can at least try a little, besides your cigarette.
Well, it's very convenient and very popular now.
Well, uh... I didn't catch the last part.
You want to make sure it's good solid habit before anything else takes its place, like work?
Look. It's begin.
I see. What kind of backgrounds does the staff have?
Well, we have the Thompsons, the Greens, and the Anderson, about twelve people total.
Yes, it has been conquered by many people in history.
Thank you for inviting me. Sounds lovely! I would like to come. Where is your new apartment?
What day is today?
No, not yet. I just want to hair cut.
Along Queen's Road...
Make sure you clean it up before you do anything else.
That is him.
Yes. I ’ Ve come to talk with you about ordering the eight megapixel cameras for our new methone. The demand for phone cameras is growing, and Pear has been falling behind in the market.
Dad, how do you say this word?
I'm not sure I can't agree, dan
Well, to be honest, I mostly use Sarah Winter products now. But I'm not happy with them. So I would like to change companies.
How many ports do we call at on our passage to Qingdao?
Everyone from school.
I am happy that you like the house. We should write down what we like so that we can remember it.
Excuse me. I have just missed the connection plane due to the heavy fog in London. Can I change my ticket now?
Here is my boarding pass.Can you tell me where my seat is?
Fine. Then, shall we go right away? I have a car outside.
What if the sale is made on the basis of sight draft?
She's at home.
Thanks a lot. You are so kind.
And that's it. You're done.
Well, are we going there today? I want to take shots there.
So what do you think of my new dress?
Enough! If we don't finish the game, there won't be time for any movies tonight!
You look really wiped out?
I think this summer is a good time to visit Berlin. It's a beautiful place and the people there are very nice.
I never did either, but it pays the bills.
We have darker ones. Do you like the style?
Tell the man behind the counter what you want.
Oh, did you? That's very easy to do.
No, my company makes cameras.Well, I'm also a photographer, but two of these are for our display.
Could you deliver it tomorrow?
You look so young.
Yes, I joined your group of bus tour this morning. You promised the journey will last 3 hours and we will visit 15 sightseeing spots.
Steven, have you any friend in London?
Right! Glad to see you here.
Excuse me, waiter, I would like to have some wine before the main course.
Let me get that package.
Professor, I'm concerned about my grades. Do you have a minute?
Sometimes, the narrow-minded people make me frustrated.
Oh, my god! He ’ s so perfect.
You fiend. It's about the flavor, not the fix. Why don't you just crush some caffeine pills and start doing lines?
A taxi it is, sir.
That must have been wonderful. Do anything interesting?
What do you mean, Janice?
There's a bookstore just across the street.
It's so earlier this morning, Mr. Li! You just came back yesterday, you should have rest much more.
Mm. In hundreds, please.
No, I'm afraid not.
You said the same thing three months ago.
Good point. I suppose that we all have our own individual styles.
Thanks, Carla. That's quite a compliment coming from you. You always dress so tastefully.
That ’ s great. Can you speak Chinese?
Let me examine him to see if there is any rash. No rash.
Um, that ’ s good.
What time would you like to see him?
I had to. I was missing you a lot.
so what did you do about it yesterday?
Only one night.
Really? Wow, I don't have to go to school tomorrow.
Mr. Smith, how was your flight?
She promised that we'd be ready to start tracking the Stars.com web site by the end of next week.
Drinking liquids and getting rest is a good idea with a cold.
I understand. What should I tell Mr. Morley?
More than half of the employees have bachelors ' degree.
Airport security.Could you empty your pockets over here, please?
What about affirmative action? Hasn't legislation changed a lot of the make hierarchy?
How about you and Tom? What time is your wedding?
Where is Tom? It was his idea to have the bachelor party at a ETV, wasn't it?
do you like amusement parks?
Recently, there prevails ' Net Love '!
Great! I can teach you men a thing or two about shopping!
It's famous for beautiful countryside with clean air.
Try to get outdoors more and be sure to get more rest.
All of the extra information that you need is on the bulletin board in the hallway. See you on Monday!
My employer cut back on my hours.
Of course, such as Alabama, which is a famous website.
How much are the pears?
I think your background and experience are worth the compensation.
Please tell me exactly what happened.
I'm much better.The stomachache is gone, and the doctor is about to give me another endoscope examination to see whether the ulcer has healed.
I am going to celebrate my birthday with you all in a night club this year, what do you say?
I think you need to get brain surgery. I honestly don ’ t think you need cosmetic surgery. You look amazing.
Well, that's why you'r here.My source for big TV sets overcharged me on the last shipment, so I need someone new. I wanted to meet you to see if we can work together. I think
I'm sorry. I'm already doing something this Friday.
That's good. You can put one in this room and put the other one in that room.
What color is your new dress?
Yes, I am studying in Eastern Asian language department.
Most of the time I'll be on a tour, enjoying the beautiful scenery there.
That's it! All of them have first-class quality and performance. Besides, we adopt advanced technology. Now we have developed new products. They are much better than what you have bought.
I'm so pleased that you can go.
Well, the color is all right. But it looks outdated.Can you show me that one?
Oh, what's that?
You do realise that you must pay a 0.2 % charge for premature cancellation, right?
I'm afraid all the rooms are fully booked.
Did you hear about car accident on Spring Road yesterday?
Well, can't you make it for two only?
Looking forward to meeting with you!
Dad, I'm scared.
Any time between 8 a. m. to 9 p. m.
Oh no! That ’ s terrible!
All right. That sounds like fun.
I woke up today thinking this would be just like any other ordinary day, but I was wrong. A twist of fate brought us together. I crashed into your life and you into mine, and this may sound crazy, but I ’ m falling in love with you, Veronica.
I would need to check on that. Where is the fundraiser?
There ’ s been a growth in that field in my country too. A lot of people want to learn practical and professional skills.
What is the most unexpected thing you experienced in space?
They are subject to hard training. And you know what, for a player on the national team, personal affairs are supposed to take a back seat to training and competitions. They are not even allowed to talk relationships with each other.
What do you think of the former champ?
yes, most of the shops are closed at 22 or even earlier, but the internet operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and can be accessed anywhere.
It sure is.Can I see your ticket? OK, fine.
No, I think that I should just go home because I have some medicine there.
I like those kinds of programs too. They ’ re very informative. I think that many people underrate the education value of Tv.
What kind of car?
Does have your telephone number?
fine. Have a look at the timetable to find out when the next one arrives.
Okay, see you tomorrow!
I'm sorry. I meant to ask you.
Yeah, that will be the best part. Jack hasn't seen yours yet, right?
It was for two o ’ clock in the afternoon.
We have beef soup and tomato soup.
Well, how many dogs do they train at a time?
Thanks a lot. Good bye.
Fine, I'll make it.
Oh, well, the music has stopped. Thank you for the dance.
So when did this all happen?
I ’ ll do that. Meanwhile, could you give me an indication of price?
Really? In New Berlin?
It's 423-6681. Isn't it right?
I agree that yours are of better quality. But there ’ s competition from synthetic products, too. You can ’ t very well ignore that. Prices for synthetic bristles haven ’ t changed much over the years.
I've heard about it, but never had one.
We'll have to get you to a hospital. I can ride you on the back of my bike.
What are the temperatures in winter? In my city it is about 15 or 20 degrees.
I'll call the bus charter later. And have you announced the itinerary of this journey to all of them?
No, He must be her fourth or fifth.
I am working in a small company where further promotion is impossible, so I decided to change my job. I'd like to find a job which is more challenging.
May I have a look at your receipt?
Peter, do you want to learn to play the piano?
We have the medicine for that. I'll go and get it for you.
30,000 NT for ginseng?! Do I have to buy a whole jin?
I'm so bored. I don't know what I'm going to do today and it is only ten in the morning.
Very Wang sir, smoking or no smoking?
OK. I'll take this one.
Is there anything you would like to do next time?
Class starts in twenty minutes. You have to turn it in at the beginning of class today.
Yeah, I used to work out for an hour a day 4 times a week, and I saw no results. This is what you have to do to get noticeable results.
Are you feeling any better?
Oh no. the train hasn't been crowded at all recently. Besides, you're in first-class, so you'll be fine.
Hello, Lucy. This is Monica again. I have a question.
What's your new girlfriend like?
That ’ s right. But I don ’ t think there are better ways.
True. The news says that there is a general increase in the price of daily necessities.
Well, not everyone wants to drink beer. Make sure there are some soft drinks and juice. Nothing's as refreshing as iced drinks on a hot day.
OK, no problem. But you have to learn it and then do it yourself next time.
I'm going to the shops in a minute. What do we need?
Yes. What is the rent?
OK. I'll get it for you.
Is that girl your girlfriend?
May I speak to Mr. Baker?
Geez. Is that all?
It's very nice of you to invite me.
This only signifies that the toxins have left the body. Actually, there is only discomfort during the treatment process. Once it's over you feel very comfortable.
It's an honor and a privilege to receive a visit from such a distinguished group.
Please take a seat. Do you need a shampoo?
Should we have gotten off the bus already?
That's not a problem, Miss. Will that be it?
No, you don't need to pay anything on top. We just simply deduct the discounting interest.
Good afternoon. I suppose you are Ms. Monica. My name is Mr. Thomas, the general manager of ABC Company. Here is my business card.
A DENY shirt and one of Serena Williams ' used tennis rackets!
I'd like to take some money from my Fund Account at the Securities Company. Is that possible here?
So the guest is presumed to be thirsty and in need of some drink after the trip. In that case, I guess, in return, the guest doesn't have to drink it if he wouldn't like it.
You ’ re right. I wasn ’ t. I hear nothing.
There're a lot of chuckholes on this old highway. Driving on it is experience-demanding.
what's there to see?
Thanks, Denise. Actually, I was really surprised. I mean, there were a lot of qualified people out there.
Professor, where's Canada?
Almost all of them do. A few are independent. That means that they do not belong to a party. If one party more than half of the mp ’ s. they form a government. That means that they choose a prime Finist
What are the requirements?
Oh, it's getting late. I've got to run.It was nice talking to you, karren.
I am just looking, thank you... Excuse me. Can you tell me where I can buy a pair of shoes?
No, thank you. I can manage it, I think.
You know... I did very poorly on that test.
Which school are you attending?
Yes. Some people spend half of the morning on the road.
I am not sure. I just can't connect to the net.
Well, the sale price is $ 1 each.
I think as long as you try your best and don ’ t think of anything too much, everything will be all right.
Where ’ s that? Oh, I know! Madame Tussaud ’ s the waxworks museum.
I always catch this bus.
This one. It is of the best quality and excellently tailored as well. You may try it on.
He must be all over you the first time he saw you.
Not tonight. I promised to go to a concert with my sister.
I went to visit an uncle in San Francisco.
Could you tell me how you dealt with it this time?
What's your problem then?
What is your problem in working?
Just the champagne will be fine, thank you.
Right. Since my work is near a park, It’s a really nice ride, too.
Here is a present for you. I hope you like it.
My car is in the parking lot, lets go this way. Let me help you with your bags.
But why do you choose cycling at first?
But I think Henry is a backroom boy.He always helps her with her study.
When it comes to select a fund, you will always read Past performance is not an indication of future results, can you believe that?
Not quite good. It's windy and dry. We have got continental climate there. It's dry all the year round. Usually autumn is the best season of the year In New York.
you look pretty upset. Are you ok?
Can I use your laptop for a while?
Time flies! One year has already been a history!
I use several services. Of course, I deposit and withdraw money quite often. I often use my ATM card to take money out of my current account. I use my bank to exchange money form once currency t
I'm not familiar with American size.
I will be there half an hour early.
I believe you can take the 486.
Jones. According to your website, the nightly rate is $ 50, including breakfast.
if I'm not back in ten minutes, come and find me.
What's playing at the Century Fox?
Is that a one-way or round trip?
Yes, I want it to made of tweed.
Thank you so much. I'll try and catch that.
Tom, I've got good news for you.
Can I take a look at one of those?
The first step is to determine your eligibility for a U. S. visa. Let's see here... you're applying for a special business visa. Why is that?
It should be the way out.
simple. We had personality clashes and there were too many cultural differences.
Is it waterproof?
First, we could spend 45 minutes working on your English writing.If you want, I could help you edit your papers.Or we could do English conversation. Whatever you want.And then the next 45 minutes you would help me with my Chinese.
Next time you are in Shanghai, please let me know, and let me be of some assistance to you.
Oh, all right. I lost a bunch of money in the last two years, but this year has been pretty good.
Outside or inside?
It certainly is. It's so much fun.
I can agree to that.
My father has already paid for that in advance. Here are the receipts.
Look, it's starting!
would you like to go to skating? I was thinking of going out to the - - Saturday. It's great up there. Would you like to go with me?
Where did you get it from?
I want to look in the papers today. Maybe we can see something we like.
well, I've noticed that is a position available as a sales manager.
Oh, I see. By the way, where are you going for your holidays this year?
Do you think most families with many children envy or feel sorry for other families with only one child?
OK, please fill in the application form giving the name and address of beneficiary, your name and telephone.
Really? Are you sure?
You should drink more hot water, and do some exercise.
In that case, we can choose the Youth Hotel. It's a good choice, clean and economic.
PCC is perfectly fine for me.
Good luck finding the waitress!
Can I have a look at your handworks?
I do not like the play with complicated plot. What's on today?
Um, let me see. Hmm. This antique tea set here is gorgeous.
Do I have to turn on the computer?
It’s on the first floor, Room 120.
I try to picture the Lord's face in my mind.
What kind of juice would you like, sir?
You got up so late today. You have, I think. Turn on the TV and set your watch by it.
They are responsibility, skill, patience, quietness, and so on.
Is there air conditioning?
we ’ ll try to arrange it, but I can ’ t guarantee sir.
No, it's a semimonthly.
What does a clerk do?
I remember that someone says that it is difficult to forget the people who don ’ t want to forget.
Today is the old couple ’ s golden wedding.
Ben, what are you doing?
Hey, I'm good at playing it.
This is Mr.White speaking.
Hello. Could I speak to Justin, please?
Downloading music is really fast and convenient, and you can preview all the songs before you buy them.
That ’ s great news.
Yes, I was talking to a party. We were disconnected.
Well. Dinner for ten at sixty Yuan a plate, drink's extra, at 8 o'clock tomorrow evening. Is that all right?
Yes, here is my Certificate of Nurse.
do you understand what duties that job would entail?
All right I'll read it soon.
I feel like champagne, lobster tail, and filet mignon, medium rare.
I ’ ll just cancel it for you right now.
Good afternoon.It ' s very nice to see you again.
Well, in that case, you have to pay for it. Please fill out the form first.
ok. Should I heat the wok?
OK Mr. Lee. I have you booked on flight 513 leaving on the 5th at 11:00 pm and arriving in New York on the 6th at 6
And you ’ re going to completely transform your eating habits, right?
How old are you?
Well, take care of yourself. And hope you will be better as soon as possible.
It never came in the mail.
12:00. You have to wait for a while.
I'm ready. I'll look forward to it all Friday!
I went there on business.
Yes, they are like I said we have thunderstorms. But each one usually last a few hours. Then the skys are clear again.
What were you and Richard talking about earlier? It looked intense.
Is the sale going to include dresses?
I see him.
Was anything stolen?
I don't even wanna talk about it. It killed me!
I can accept that.
How would you like the steak, rare, medium, or well-done?
It sounds interesting. I'll take one.
Could you tell him that Horst Weissmuller phoned.
Then we take the first Heathrow Airport. What ’ s the total distance?
Oh, my computer crashed again!
Give me a moment, and I ’ ll check.
What did that involve?
Well, thank you very much for all that information. Could you give me a quotation for my consignment now?
What do you think of shopping?
I'm sorry I was such a grouch. It must've been the weather. When it rains I get depressed.
How slowly you drive!
Oh, your hand is still sore. You should put some ointment on it to stop the swelling.
All right. I will take a room for a week.
What's in the petite section?
It's definitely your size.
You can get the sports package.
What about soup?
That'll be pretty heavy for a mid-day meal, don't you think?
What? How come? The third time?
You can buy them at the souvenir shop near the exit.
Why don't you call your secretary and tell her to reschedule the meeting? You should really get some rest or you'll end up feeling even worse than you do now.
It feels like ten degrees below zero at least. I don't mind the cold weather but I do hate it when it gets slippery.
I take sleeping pills sometimes.
It's my style. Will it be resistance to balling?
There is a supermarket in Kensington High Street. I'll come and give you a hand.
Jenny is going to marry another man next month.
Would you cash these travelers ' checks, please?
what's the puzzle?
She's going to be so happy. Let me have one.
I would recommend a soup with two or three small dishes.
Okay. Here is the laundry.
Really? Tell me without delay.
OK. Let me have a try...
Right, if you see the bookshop, you can see the hospital.
Hello. What can I do for you today?
I ’ m here as a tourist.
That is wonderful. We've been having serious problems in that area. Our internal accounts seem so messy at the moment, nothing is running smoothly and it's costing us time and money.
Today's rate is 823. 71 RIB to 100 USD.
Thanks for helping me out. I really appreciate it.
Because I needed the money. And because I was good at it. Look! What do you think?
No kidding! Didn't you study for it?
Mazda. Honda and Nissan.
It's two blocks down the road.
I like spring. The days are long and the night are short. The flowers are in bloom.We go on picnics.
What do you suggest then?
Jingshan consists of five individual peaks, and there lies an elaborate pavilion on the top of each peak. These pavilions were used for gathering and leisure time. These five peaks also draw the approximate historical axis of central Beijing.
I wonder if you could help me find something for my daughter.
Watch your language or you'll be spending the weekend in your room.
It must be difficult to remember the details for each individual client.
Excuse me. Does this hotel have a fitness facility?
But I like the feeling.
Oh, he is all right. But busy as usual. Well, why don't we have a good chat at a bar? It's been long time since we met each other last time.
I am flattered. But I am not sure whether the manager is satisfied with it. She asked me to her office.
Yeah, you too!
Would you please show me the necklace in the window?
I'm afraid I forgot to lock the door.
That'd be nice.
Don't you consider it a hard work?
What are the purposes of contract?
What do you mean? It will help us to relax.
Cook it over a high flame, so that it will be ready quickly. Keep stirring the meat around the frying pan. Don ’ t let the meat stick to the bottom of the pan.
I ’ ll stand in with you if you like. I ’ Ve got nothing else to do.
You should've just asked me.
I could also bring some music if you want. I've got loads of songs on my new iPod.
OK, let's find somebody then.
Speaking of classical music, we should never forget about the New Year's Concert of the Vienna Philharmonic.
The only thing is that they have to be washed on the gentle cycle.
Hi, Paulo. How are things going?
What are your strengths and weaknesses?
Just one piece.
Thank you. It's very kind of you.
I'll prepare it. Do you prefer white rice or brown rice?
OK. Come back into the classroom, class.
Really? Why not?
Yes. How are the Spanish classes going?
Just fill out an application.
Hello. This is the Holiday Inn. Can I help you?
Poor, fellow, what's the date today, buddy?
Okay, until next time then.
My domicile place is Hebes Province.
Not really. It's much warmer usually. Your are not used to cold weather?
We eat a lot of chicken, pork and beef. You eat those meat a lot in your country too, don ’ t you?
I surely do. They must have had advanced machine in ancient China to do that.
The woman was beaten again. Why didn ’ t she call the police.
Let ’ s start with the basics, bread. Bread is an important ingredient here. You need to remember one thing - choose the bread according to the following criteria, freshness, crumb and color. If you want a closed sandwich I recommend you first toast your bread in a toaster or oven, or grill it slightly until it gets a light brown color.
Buying a new car is a big expense ; we understand that, so we have a variety of loans to suit your needs.
I mean, I understand that. But the speed of the conversation got faster and faster, until it seemed to me that they would fight. My perception of the tone was that it was a violent shouting match. The truth was that it was a perfectly normal conversation.
All right. Please wait for a minute.
I think a cab is better.
Yes, after you ’ Ve been here a year, you qualify for a three-day vacation
Good. Friday morning at 9.
Actually it will be my first time to meet her.
Lisa, I need some help here.
Don ’ t worry. I ’ Ve got my credit card. You can pay me back later.
I studied at Anshan University.
I can lend some to you.
Can we see the menu, please?
Which room are you staying in now, sir?
Yeah, the sport is affordable and accessible to every Tom, Dick and Jane in this developing country. No wonder even the state leaders are known to be keen on it.
No. Is there any direct flight to New York?
Of course we need a house inspector. But we can hire an inspector on our own. As for the legal problems, I have friends. They can help us.
Fine, thank you. And you?
It's so boring.
Let me have the baby-back ribs.
Can I pay at the check-in desk when I pick up my ticket?
Yes, it's OK.
What's your licence plate number?
Do you think I could have a look at it, please.
Did you get any perks on the job?
It's comfortable, but now I'm a little tired.
Well. According to the contract, we are responsible for repairing or replacing those defective instruments. We ’ ll send our technicians to repair them.
Yes, makes you think, doesn't it?
You tried to seduce me. I fell for you.
Thanks. See ya.
I think online banking can change your money habits and it is quicker than ATM processing speed.
It's interesting. I think I will take the bus tour. By the way, what about the lodging?
Shoes? You already have a closet full of shoes.
I'm not too scared. But I've done sky diving before.
An acoustic one.
Yes, I ache all over.
Don ’ t put me on the spot. You know, I can ’ t do that.
But there is a change in the number of people. There are seven of us. Three of my friends are coming soon.
Good morning, sir. Could I be of any service to you?
wow! That ’ s fast! I don ’ t think we will be traveling that fast on the motorway.
Hello, my old friend. Long time no see. How are you doing?
No matter what I do, I'm going to ace this test and go on to become a corporate fat cat!
Is's infuriating! I have to be in Rome by five.
That would be great. Thank you.
Perhaps you'd like to take a beautiful limousine.
You mean this one?
Come some time next week if you like. I think we'll have got some by them.
They said it is centrally controlled.All the rooms are the same. They can't change it.
Congratulations! That ’ s wonderful. I bet both of you are quite happy.
you haven't spent much time with Sophia lately. Are you speaking to each other at the moment?
I ’ Ve met some of my colleagues already. I ’ m sure we ’ ll get on well together.
Yes, that sounds like what I want.
The form has a map on the back. You may specify your top four choices.We will give a spot in the lot that has an opening.
It was long, too.
smile at the interviewers and look them in their eyes while trying to persuade them to select you. Try to act natural, let your personality, ability and interpersonal skills shine through the interview
I'm sorry to say that we have to let you go, John.
I want to pick them up.
I sat through about half of it but they lost me after that.
I prefer travel alone. I'll have a lot of time lingering at one place.
Regardless of how much pressure you're under, there's never a good reason to take drugs.
Certainly. No one who evades tax can escape from their detection.They ' ll check your income through computers. You'd better make a declaration to the tax authorities as soon as possible. If you fail to meet the deadline, you will be fined.
Some books and newspapers.
It’s been leaking for a couple of days now.
let's see, I've got about $ 50 to get me through the weekend. I can only spare about $ 20. I would give you more if I had it, I just don't have much money to my name right now.
it's no wonder there are so many teenage pregnancies in America.
What useful treatment can you offer?
That sucks. He must feel depressed.
I don't think I forgot anything.
Mike has changed much after marriage.
I can believe that.
What ’ s the matter? Didn ’ t you get enough sleep last night?
My watch says ten past.
Well, I am from Canada. Actually.
Yes, why don't you bring us a bottle of the house Chablis with four glasses to start with?
Yes, we do.We also eat a lot of lamb.
You're welcome, Diane. I hope you can visit us again soon.
Mine are, too.
I think that's a bad idea. I'd hate anyone here to think of me as a friend. How would they ever respect me as they can do whatever they want?
No.but there are quite many cars.
This pair fits me perfectly. I feel comfortable.
Thank you, Mr. Foster, see you this Tuesday at 7
Whoa. Now I'm awake! Zina has a secret admirer.
OK. Thank you. Where should I buy them?
I'm supposed to do it, but the general manager called me last night. He said he couldn ’ t come back to Beijing as scheduled, so he asked me to attend the meeting for him.
How may I help you?
I see. You must be tough.
Oh, hi, Lily. When did you get back from Canada?
They might actually win the game.
I attended school today. Did you?
As a result of your performance, we are happy to offer you the position of manager.
What do you plan on buying?
Would you like to sit near the window?
That's right. And up in to Quebec. And that's where we stop.
No, there isn't. They are all vacuumed.
It's just a deep bathtub with a current of water that you swim against.
It's user friendly.
I can only afford about 1,000 yuan a month.
We have a flight that we'll put you there at ten AM.Is that ok?
Good morning, Mr.Jones!
We just bought this house and it is infected with just about everything. We have termites in the wood, cockroaches all over the place, and last night I saw a huge rat out in the backyard!
What did you say when she told you the news?
There ’ s an interesting feature article in the chronicle about doing business in china and the daily news has printed a report about the special economic zone near pairs. We have a subsidiary company l
I'm calling to ask about your apartment advertised.
Certainly, madam. I'll just check what we have available... Yes, we have a room on the 4th floor with a really splendid view.
It's not as bad as that... We are allowed to wear more casual jackets and trousers. Besides, didn't you hear what Brian found on his desk this morning?
I ’ m a freelance writer. i write magazine articles and fiction books
I am not really sure that I remember how to even put a resume together.
Yes, please! Tell me about the alternatives.
But look at it this way, every challenge is an opportunity.And anyway, I ’ m not talking about investing in the domestic market. There are emerging markets that promise great returns. Look at China, for example.they have 1.4 billion people, half a billion of whom have recently entered the middle class. Here alone, the aggregate demand for consumer goods represents an amazing wealth generating opportunity.
no. I can ’ t think of any right now.
No, thank you. I'm afraid I can't take in anymore.
Yes. If people can not communicate with each other easily, they can not understand each other's way of thinking.
I'll take your temperature. How long have you been feeling ill?
Yes. Could you guide me to where I can change money?
I only go skiing twice a year, so it's a real treat for me.
Is it far from here?
I got it a while ago, but I haven't worn it much. You really like it?
really? What is it?
I am going to a movie theater. You know there is a new action film produced by Hollywood. A thriller, really.
What else does he say?
What ’ s the matter, dear?
Yes I am. You can check our online catalog to search the book you want based on the genre, title or if you know the author, I can point you towards the right direction.
Are there any special requirements on the project? And shall we talk around it in details?
The mayor and high officials practice cronyism and a large number of guys who are good at nothing occupy many important positions.
They arrested me without probable cause.
Ok, and what about the main course? Which would you rather have, fish or meat?
Don't be so modest. I'm sure you can do it very well. Then I'll meet you at six. Is that at all right?
Well, that ’ s a problem, isn ’ t it?
Good morning, Mr.Black. I am the new secretary.
There's another distinctive contrast. Both board games use a total of 32 pieces, but xiangqi is played on a 9 - by - 9 board, bigger than the 8 - by - 8 board used in chess.
It's too big tor me. Do you have a smaller one?
We can take a bus there.
I'm mostly interested in the personalized services you offer, with stock market news, etc. It sounds just perfect for me, as I'm too busy to be constantly at the computer checking the performance.
Hello, I ’ m Mark. I ’ m just wondering if you are free this weekend.
I've always admired writers.
Of course. The fitting room is this way, please.
Are you throwing me out?
I want to prove my true value in the electronic industry, and hopefully in the near future I would be promoted to a higher position.
OK, I'll tell him.
So, you ’ re online eight hours a day.
I can smell you, too.
Did you go to the movie yesterday?
I can ’ t help that.
Oh, no. I couldn ’ t possibly.
But I definitely was led to believe that a three-night stay would be $ 750.
May I have your room number, please?
How did it grow into such a large place?
this book have never disappointed me.
It's Chinese New Year! That means it's time to eat hot pot!
I see. Then the basic different is, hackers build things, crackers break them.
Do you see that girl in the red top? She told me who you were.
oh, they are pancakes, hollowed sesame buns, scallions, cucumbers and oisin sauce. I will show you how to make one.
So you are leaving this evening.We keep your bags until 6 p. m. Here's your tag.
OK.Hurry up.
It's on your right hand side at the end of this hallway.
I will go get the money right now.
( No response ; Silence )
From reading over your resume, I assume your English is quite good. Have you had any experience in the writing field?
OK. That means you can park in the student lot or on the street. Have you seen the handicapped spots?
We're going out to dinner and then to the movies.
I usually look at English language websites every day and go to my local English Corner twice a week.
Could you change these for me, please?
sounds like he is pretty cute. What do you think of him?
Where in China are you from?
After that, we'll let you decide if you still want a murder, I mean motorcycle.
Oh, yes. How do you do, Miss Wang? Sit down, please.
I understand that. But I hope that we can get to the bottom fo this and show Miss Brown that she misunderstood my reaction.
Have the aerobic classes any effect on you?
No, don't need, I can do myself.
I have. I feel lucky. I look forward to dealing with overseas companies and at the same time having a chance to use English more.
I like spring and summer. The days are long and the nights are short. The sun rises early and sets late. I don't like autumn and winter. The days are short and the nights are long. The sun rises late
I'm just doing my job.
What ’ s the number you are calling, please?
Certainly, sir. What kind of flowers would you like?
well, to be honest, I've only gotten though 10 pages of it. So far, though, it's interesting.
No, I won't get sick. I promise. Ok. I've finished. Bye, Dad. See you!
No. They aren't.
All right, madam. When I was sales manager at the Beijing Friendship Store. I succeeded in raising the yearly sales volume by 25 percent and profit margins from 50 percent to 80 percent.
I haven't the slightest idea.
my final price! One hundred dollars for both! That ’ s two for the price of one. That ’ s my last offer!
Good morning! Welcome to our bank! How may I help you?
I've just started doing my clothes here.
You ’ re such a geek!
Yes, they were supposed to, but so far nobody's turned up, and I have to do the work alone. This is the first break I've had all day.
Hi, I ’ m Mary Smith.
Wait a minute, please.
Over here is our gym. We have all the latest equipment.
What do you think of this coffee table?
OK. We'll wait.
The changes are usually not that dramatic. We just got some pictures of the latest fashion. Would you like to take a look?
800 yuan a month.
I am a volunteer for this year ’ s campaign.
OK, so once you pass the gym, it's the first door on your left. Do you know you can also sell your used textbooks there?
Really? Have you had an auto-reverse break before?
I wish you could make a reconsideration. If you don't reduce your price, we won't purchase from you any more because there's plenty of other business offering here.
I have been yearning for a job as a stewardess in an airline like yours.
Nothing of that sort!
You need at least $ 100 in your account.
Where did you go yesterday?
What? What ’ s up?
That's not a bad idea. How much is it?
sometimes it can be hard to tell, but if you know the person fairly well, you can usually see from their expression what they are really thinking.
I see. I think I ’ d agree with that statement. People often seem to make the same mistakes over and over again.
She is a great addition to my class.
Do you have a valid license?
Can you say it again slowly?
Great. We can't keep up with the demand.
Have you ever done your shopping at Whole Foods market?
Then shall we arrange the bellboy to pick up your luggage at 9:00?
Well, for a monthly pass, it'll cost you $ 65.
So I take it you are not interested.
I can't remember, but I've got the receipt somewhere.Would you like to see it?
That's normal for anyone with a newborn.
Use them from the outside in.
Yes, we ’ Ve got a reservation. The name is Ann.
Would any of them have dancing figures?
I just know a little. First you need to include your basic information, such as your name, age, gender and major, etc.
Buckle up the belt, please.
But give yourself some time. You just got here.
Chicken! You're afraid I'll beat you.
Now people are talking about world recession which started more than a year ago. Can you give us your personal assessment of the situation of the global economy?
I'm afraid not. The tooth is too far gone. It'll have to be taken out.
Oh, I think I'd like to take the monthly savings account then.
I'm 32.
can you recommend one?
I see. Have you found anything that you're interested in?
Yes, and you know what?
En... it tastes good. I appreciate what you have done for me.
You are bragging again.
I would like to get a bus pass.
Very good. Any questions?
What's the matter with my wife?
Well, I got $ 3,000 per month.
All right. How about this one by the window?
Anything wrong with it?
Oh, honey! Don ’ t you remember this important day to us?
I hope you can stay for dinner. I need a guinea pig!
I've never experienced such a kind of feeling.
I need a copy of the agenda. Also, may I suggest something? I know we have many points to review today, but would it be possible to limit our meeting time to finish before four o'clock? Many of us still have a mountain of work to do before the day's end.
Yes, that ’ s right. After graduating from high school in New York I attended York University in the UK. My major was English, and my minor was business studies. I completed my BA in 2004.
OK, let's cut to the chase. what are they like?
You're looking very well.
Please write down the zip code in the mailing address.
I lost it.
Do you have any special brand in your mind?
What do you think of his behaviour yesterday?
He looks strong.What does he do?
Sounds good. Are there any group tours I can go with?
Well, you're here. And that's the main thing.
Hi, I'd like to get your store credit card.
Are you sure that it isn't somewhere in your room?
You said it. At last you ’ d better attach a list of references to your resume.
I look forward to more of doctors.
How much is the late fee?
I can always borrow the book from another library.
The one next to the telephone.
Did you have a better price in mind?
$ 10. That's the best I can do.
Excuse me.My bag was stolen.Will you help me?
This way please. Your room is upstairs... Here it is.
yes, it was fantastic! Can I read the article when you're finished?
my travel agent always reminds me to plan a day of relaxing for every 3 days of sightseeing. Did you go to the Louvre?
All right. Here's the lease and the check for the deposit.
I can't wait until we get our year-end bonus!
I tried that a few weeks ago and she ended bringing a pal from work with her! She's so busy these days that it's just impossible to hang out with her.
No. But it is urgent, and I need to see a doctor as soon as possible. I am really in bad shape.
I know. Goodnight.
Certainly, every room in this hotel has a private bath.
Which kind of news do you catch?
I just let it go and continued dating with my Korean boyfriend. But finally we broke up.
Do you want anything to go with soup?
Yes, I ’ m sorry. I know it bothers you very much. But I don ’ t know why Chinese sometimes would do this.
What kind of room do you have in mind?
well, maybe I can help. Remember my neighbor?
Good gracious. That ’ s incredible!
What would you suggest?
Mom! I'll wear a helmet and I'll drive sane. I promise.
To be honest, I didn't really like Shaun of the Dead. Besides, I like movies with a happy ending best.
Oh, yes. Several of the buildings from the villages still survive. Many of them were inns for travelers and today survive as pubs. There was a castle near one village, so our city has a castle too.
Can't you stay for a little bit longer, it's only 8.
No, the casting is great and the actors were excellent. They just didn ’ t have a lot of funny or meaningful dialogues. The writing was also a little weak.
likewise. See you later.
I recommend you the white wine. It will wake up your appetite.
Ask the worker who sells tokens to give you one. It's free fo charge. Actually maps showing subway routes are posted at most stations.
It's not serious.
Oh, I see. How about the charges?
Model of computers aren't compatible?
Her marriage was a hole and corner affair.
Yes. That's perfect. I'll take it.
I like the apartment, Mr.Sellers. You can show me the lease.
Dad! Are you serious? What ’ s the point of having central heating if we can ’ t use it! Look, I can see my breath!
OK, we can come early this afternoon. Is anyone going to be at home?
Do you know what movie you're going to watch?
No, but those guys like to hit on me.
Whoa! So many drugs... I hate swallowing pills. Am I able to go to work?
Well, I am a little bit out of shape. I think I should get some exercise to keep fit. what kind of service do you offer?
That was quick! I wasn't expecting it until later this week.
Welcome. Can I help you with anything?
Do you have a medium in the same color? This one is a little tight.
I don't care for a detective film. It also makes me nervous.
Sally. She is a bachelor girl. She is an excellent designer. Many of the company's advertisements are her child trains.
No, I can't see that happening. I know you're a good cook and nothing like that would ever happen.
It's wise to do it. The Americans have the habit of selling their junk when they are moving to another place, so they usually display all the things they want to sell in their gardens at the weekend. And many things they are selling still look quite new and they are also very useful.
Exactly five dollars.
Yes, that sounds like a good idea.
It might not be possible to fix the problems that we've created for ourselves, but there are lots of things we can do to prevent more damages from happening.
Perfect. Our offer remains open for 3 days.
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we are happy you have all come out for our training workshop. Today we have a great line-up of speakers to talk to you. First on our program is a well-renown expert in the field of international economic development, Harvard's own Dr. James Smith. Dr. Smith has been involved in economic research for over twenty years, and has taught at Harvard since 1995. And now, without further adieu, we'd like to welcome Mr. James Smith.
I've always got room for something sweet!
Yes, much better. Watch where you lift your foot off the pedal. What was that?
Gee! You scared me!
That's a reasonable price.
Yes, I would like to look at some of your products. I think what I am using now does not fit me well.
Don ’ t you have air-conditioning in your apartment? It’s sweltering here!
Do you have any symptoms?
Yes, I didn't know Washington, DC got so cold in winter.
I'm all right, thanks. Just a little tired.
You aren ’ t going to a strip club, are you? I don ’ t want you getting a lap dance from some stripper with the excuse that It’s your friends party.
How many people are you paying the tax for?
I know, but I really can't accept such an expensive gift. I explained to him why, but he seemed really upset about it. I think he might have taken it the wrong way.
It's better for right-handed people like me. See, I don't even have to move my arm to see the time.
I know everyone suffers when he is misunderstood. But why not take it easy?
What about my resume?
I've been reviewing your work over the past few months. Thanks to your excellent work, we benefit much from your project. And you should get the perfect attendance award too.
So, It’s a three-bedrooms detached house?
If you feel our proposal is attractive, it is estimated that business to the extent of over twenty million marks can be done in this manner.
Oh, thank you. Thank you very much.
We have developed new technology about it. And the new product will be a pleasure to be hold.
Six days or so.
We'll have to talk this over some more.
Sorry, your friend over there ordered fried eggs, and I gave you his by mistake.
I am sorry. It's not allowed. You have to wait till the next station.
Hello. Did you enjoy the tour of our new premises?
You don't have to do that...
I thought you were going to let it grow out long.
Do you like being a doctor?
Well, there are lots of things to consider. Quality and delivery times are as important as price. We also take into consideration technical support and after-sales service. We look for companies with a good track record. We place a few trial orders and if everything goes well, we put them on our approved list. It's important to choose companies you feel you can work closely with.
I have nothing against them putting the advertisements in magazines and newspapers that are read by adults, but I don't think they should have their ad on billboards where children can see them.
What's the minimum quantity of an order for your goods?
How many best friends do you have?
That's something that you really need to work on.
I know, but I don't have a choice, my boss has complete control over our work schedules. I haven't made it out of the office before 9 PM a single day this week.
I want a new brand image. Something creative, something strong. Make no mistake, something with... resolve!
Well you have to try Peking duck.
He really did a great job in the finale, especially in the PK round. He performed so well that the majority of the audience cast their votes for him.
Susan has got married.
I'll be with you in a second. Uh... Yes, ma'am?
It was only about $ 120 for a 13 - inch screen.
All right.Which kind do you prefer?
Yeah, it is, a little bit. I joined the Great Outdoors Club, though, which has been a lot of fun. We've gone on two camping trips already, and I've made some good friends.
That will be a good one! Anything else?
yes, you need to be careful with what you eat when you're abroad. Sometimes new food might disagree with you.
I ’ m looking forward to this film. I read a good review of it in this morning ’ s newspaper.
yes. I hope it pans out. Cross your fingers, Lily.
You will need to pay part of the principle sum and part of the interest due.
I really find Chinese dishes more to my taste.
You see? Every cloud has a silver lining.
Yes, please. I'm here for an International Settlement. Our company has to effect payment, and it needs to be done today. Here's the advice slip for the payment.
Of course, I'll get right on it.
I've got no kite. Do you have one?
yeah, why not. Do you have all the ingredients?
Betty and I will throw a dinner party this weekend, we ’ d like you to come.
By weight. 6.0 cents per pound.
Of course we can.
Show me your passport and declaration please.
Yes, I see. five thirty AM Mr. Green, Room 1021.
Have you taken your driving test yet?
you've got a deal.
It would be a rare occasion to be able to appreciate so many fine species of Chinese and foreign flowers fully blooming in one park!
All right. Now what do I do?
Does it suit me?
What! That sounds perfectly ridiculous! Labour Day is a holiday for everyone, not just laboring staff... and we get a whole day off tomorrow anyway, so what's the point of an extra hour tonight?
It is my pleasure, sir. I wish you a pleasant stay here. Goodbye!
It comes with an ice maker, water dispenser, and there is a lot of room inside.
Is the furniture crafted well?
Beth, what date is today?
Oh, it wants me to put in my PIN number. OK, I can do that...
I hope it won't be too long. It would be a shame not to take advantage of such lovely weather.
Sir, the gym is just below the lobby. You can take the elevator or the stairs.
No. I'm thinking that maybe I can get my hair shampooed.
Yes, just in case we run into me new characters.
Sure. you can get a further discount at 5 %.
I didn ’ t realize that speaking in class could be so easy.
I just wanted to congratulate you! I mean, it was a good race and you deserve to win.
What, do you believe, are some of the key attributes that helped you to achieve such an outstanding increase in sales?
I see. We offer Agent Services free of charge here. Before your new business begins trading, we could, on behalf of your existing company, do a series of registration and get the certificates you need. If you are unsure of the local laws, that is.
Good. And because this is our initial order, and your products is so new, we would like to make a deal with you.
What did they take?
I'm not. I just don't feel like drinking whole milk today. Why? Do you think I'm fat?
You can pay here.
No, I just started working here at IBM, I am assigned sale department.
Did you know hat your actions might cause serous injuries or death?
The fridge and freezer is very spacious, and it also has an ice maker and water dispenser.
After baseball practice.
I want haircut and perm.
That sounds good. How much is the tour?
Is it a color TV or a black and white TV?
I'm looking for a necklace for my girl friend as a birthday present.
You can get a burger, or some Chinese food. Or maybe you can get some Mexican food.
Yeah, get off the bus.
Yes. We ’ Ve signed two contracts with companies that we already do work for in other countries. We hope to sign another three this month.
Right now I ’ m basically just a secretary, but if I ’ m given the chance, I want to become a travel agent there.
Yes, I would like to make a reservation for May 3rd.
Where were decorating and I ’ m going to ask some things.
Do you brush your teeth twice a day as dentists recommend?
That'll be easy.
It is nice, may i try it on?
Really? No, they couldn ’ t. None of them would have jobs if they did.
You don ’ t know what day the elections are?
I would prefer Dr. Smith.
Sure. Come on it. We just finished rebuilding everything.
As it's confidential there is a certain amount of red tape, but it shouldn't take too long. There is, of course a service fee of 300 RIB to be paid.
What ’ ll happen if I don ’ t maintain that?
Right. What are you doing over there?
Tom, you look thoughtful and unhappy recently. What's wrong with you?
Excuse me, do you know where the Post Office is?
What size would you like?
They ’ re not all right. They ’ re uncomfortable and they look terrible.
Fine then! Would you mind giving me 100 bucks?
We ’ re having a Valentine ’ s Day Party.
I'm in a bit of a hurry today, so we'd better make it to go. Thanks for asking.
you have it right. Alcohol is a medium for communicating emotion in China. Drinking with business partners or would-be friends is a way of solidifying friendship, especially in Northern China.
Frans Smith? I think you may have the wrong number.
The developments in software are going ahead very quickly and more and more problems are resolved by software. In some regions, the hardware is completely replaced by software. So I think the software industry has a great future.
I would really appreciate it if we could talk for a few minutes now. It's about the overtime you've asked me to put in.
I have a sweet tooth. Chocolate is my favorite. So how about you?
Do you want to go to the earlier or the later show?
I don ’ t like the pointed toes. Let me take a look at what else you have. Too high. That one looks like the back would cut into my heel. I have a high instep so I doubt that one will fit properly.
Hi, what brings you to my office today?
Yes, the pain comes more intense when the weather is bad. And the pain comes intense when I walk too much.
I'm busy year in and year out, but now I've done nothing.
I am very active and energetic. I approach things enthusiastically and I don't like leaving them half done.
What's the matter
Yes, I would very much like to see it.
Naturally. Each of us keeps one original and two copies.
How about something to drink?
How about 560 436 4040.
Are you sure you can't lend me five thousand dollars?
Quite often. It is very convenient, saving me a lot of time.
Where did you study accounting?
You're so thoughtful.Thank you.
It's also known as Les Puces, which means ‘ The Fleas '.
No, ma ’ am. This is Sean. Steven ’ s out sick.
Regardless, all you had to do was give a call.
I'm going to buy some vegetable and you cook.
Has your blood pressure been high before?
I thought you were making dinner tonight.
Hmm, I don't feel very comfortable.
When can I know whether I am accepted or not?
Will it be too late if I call around ten this evening?
You will have to pay $ 1050 every month.
Henry married Rose only after her father's money, didn't he?
You said it. I'm looking forward to my annual vacation.
Come on. Things are not so bad. Boys can learn to use the computer through games.
Jenny, come and help, we need to prepare more food.
Why are you choosing to leave a foreign country? Many people are reluctant to leave the superior living environment abroad.
But it doesn't have all the modern convenience offered by the city.
Huh? We are going to play for money, aren ’ t we?
there are models that can pick up more sound than this one, but they're much bigger and heavier than this one.
How much is the fare?
Hi, Navy. Come in please. I'm just putting away on my books.
Hold on a minute please. I ’ ll have my assistant check that part.
Yeah.What a surprise!
Miss Gray, would you please type this report for me?
I'd like a one-inch photo for my interview.
The news reported that four stores were broken into.
What was their reason for arresting you?
Did you get the car you wanted?
No, we turn right. Remember that we are coming from this direction.
Who're the producer, the director, the stars, heroine and the hero?
Welcome. Can I help you?
Hi, Linda. I want to invite you to a dinner tomorrow evening.
Football? Sounds dangerous. Maybe I'll just be a cheerleader.
It’s the job I ’ m interested in. And your company is the best-known. Although I don ’ t have much experience as a manager, the job description you sent to me was very interesting. It’s a job I ’ Ve been dreaming of and I feel suited to fill it.
Oh, did you?
I would like to have shelled shrimps with cashew nuts.
Let me have a look. Well, how many kinds of steaks do you have?
it wasn't just once. Every single time I take the bus, something bad happens to me or to someone else on the bus.
Yes, please. I'd like to make a reservation from Hong Kong to Tampa with a stopover in Houston.
I can't do that with my cat. She hates water.
John? Can you come over here for a second?
Yeah. It used to. We got that fixed yesterday too.
Could you tell me how to use the washer and dryer?
No wonder your English is so good.
They don't really fit you right.
Am. No, I have an urgency to talk with him.
I ’ ll do my best.
Then I'll try to find a seat in the smoking section. One moment. please.Thank you for waiting. I found a seat in the smoking section for you.
But in my case, the fact matches the theory. Mike is humorous, energetic, always as fresh as a daisy, but probably too ambitious. It frightens me!
I guess this is a good excuse to surf the Net on someone else's dime.
Yes! Yes! I want to take you to dinner.
yes, she will. At the moment, the exchange rate is very favorable, so she should try to go as soon as possible, while It’s cheaper.
Maybe you should have placed them horizontally over your bowl or plate. They resemble two incense sticks used at sacrifices. It's very inauspicious, and might enrage all present.
so you can speak Chinese?
What should I avoid?
I really like how that sounds.
Maybe they don ’ t agree with my taste.
I use several services. Of course, I deposit and withdraw money quite often. I often use my ATM card to take money out of my current account. I use my bank to exchange money from once currency to another. I often travel abroad, you see.
Really? You ’ Ve helped me a lot. Thank you.
Yes, I've watched the finale for the ' Super Girl '. The producer is very smart to copy the program from the US, which is quite fresh and eye-catching for mainland audiences.
No problem, anytime.
May I speak to the apartment building manager, please?
How time flies!
Very well, we have a couple of different options such as beaches, the wilderness, the countryside or even going to a spa for the weekend.
OK... Now how can I help, hon?
I'd like to leave on Nov. 2nd and return on Nov. 21st.
Yes, I did. I have them here.
I just need to see some ID, like a passport for example.
Interesting. And, your postgraduate studies?
Open your mouth and say ah... God, you are suffering from the swelling of tonsils.
Do you have an appointment?
Won't you get lonely?
Honey, wait! I've sprained my ankle.
That's good!
But I don't have any reading assignments.
I want to travel to the ancient town in the south of China. Would you please tell me something about it?
I think we will have opportunities to meet each other in the future.
New furniture makes a room seem so fresh. I see that you also bought a new lamp for your bedside table.
Tv towers are usually thicker at the bottom than at the top. They ’ re not perfectly cylindrical.
Is this a restaurant that you want to come back to?
( Raising a lock ) About like this?
The train is driving after ten minutes.
It's at... gate 14.
I have one. We could share it. Which way are you going?
I don't know how, but I love you more than the day we gotta married.
We have clear and cream soup at your choice.Which one do you prefer?
But it will pose a risk to your health.
What else will you be needing?
I'll throw out the garbage.
Yes, but it takes a long time to learn.You would spend a thousand dollars to learn it on a rental windsurfer.
I like it, too. But sometimes I enjoy jazz and classical music.
Maybe it's more exciting not knowing.
Miao Ping, in your opinion, should we go for the Type A or Type B Account?
Sure, sir. How many of you are there?
I think you'd better take the No. 16 bus. It can take you right there.
Yep, it should be here by tomorrow night.
Yeah, I just bumped into the table.
Do I have to take gym?
Well, I studied French at school, but I ’ Ve forgotten most of it. I learnt some Russian while I was studying there and now I study Spanish in evening classes. Do you speak Japanese at home with your pa
That's just the point! Purity is the essence of good coffee, right?
Would you like everything on it?
It's ultra-compact, it has a brushed, titanium metal body and a rubber shock-proof, weather-proof case with a belt clip.
I don ’ t want to post my personal information on the internet. I ’ m not knowing who is reading it.
Yes, of course. Will you come with receipt?
I can't agree more. The only-child generation in China tends to know little about marriage.
I'll try the soya-bean milk this time.
Sure. Here you go.
Yes, we live a happy life together.
We hit a couple of local bars, and met up with some friends. Everything was cool until Mike came along, and it turned out that it was his birthday yesterday!
I love this house and would be willing to pay the full asking price of three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
Apparently, you have a bench warrant.
What ’ s the reason for that?
What about my ticket? Do I still need to pay?
You're lucky. It's hard to find a place to stay at the beach in August
What's the size?
Absolutely right. I myself sometimes believe that healthy eating is just about feeling great. As long as I have enough energy, it's fine.
No, it is my treat.
Yes, I'd like another cup of coffee.
That means Month / Day / Year. Use numbers.
Wow, my son is so clever.
Of course.Don ' t worry. I'll call one for you.
2000 Hongkong dollars per night plus ten percent service charge and five percent government tax.
I'm scared that she might not come back.
You've plenty of time yet. The railway station is very close. It won't take more than twenty minutes to get there.
Once the US economy is in trouble due to the terrorist attack, the impact could be quickly felt in the rest of the world.
I can drink ten cups in fifteen minutes. I ’ m sure.
Glad to meet you, Mr Stewart. I'm the guide from Pacific Tour Agency. My name is Zhang Hua.
We'd better have a brief talk about the loading port.
Good evening Ms. Jackson. Fancy meeting ’ you here.
You will be a very promising one.
Hello. May I help you?
All right, all right, relax. I am only trying to do my job.
Yes. There will be one at the end of this month. For many people, a Hawaiian vacation promises languid days filled with sunbathing and poolside cocktails. For others, It’s all about non-stop action in one of the world's most extreme natural playgrounds. Whether you are in search of quiet relaxation or unbridled stimulation, Hawaii gives you the best of both.
Um... and what sport are we talking about here?
That the concert was lit!
What about your parents?
Oh, yes.Erm, well, what exactly is it that interests you about the job?
How much will the three pounds of chicken cost altogether?
But he's equally responsible because he tried to overtake you.
I am glad to hear that.
The dentist is very busy at the moment. Can you come at 2 PM?
His parents must feel very happy.
It doesn ’ t matter. Go back the way you came. After about five kilometers, you ’ ll see a hotel on the side of the road. It’s a big one. You can ’ t miss it.
It’s pretty good.
I am eating pretty good.
They are good, but i still need a few more.
I like taking photos out of door.
Yeah, I love red apples.
I got it. Then I should mention my educating background and working experience, should I?
Alright, I'll get it.
The Phoenix team overpowered its counterpart 86 to 50.
It’s all right.
Of course. I spent the whole week to know the general process for these plans. And since I was employed, I have been working on them. Madam, how am I doing? Are you satisfied with my job?
No, We didn't go there. I'd like to go there next time.
How do you control the quality of the products?
What bad luck!
Well, Jerry, let me tell you a secret.
Thank you for your compliment. Won't you try this fish with white sauce? I'm rather round of it.
yes, you sent them to New York, right?
Yeah, but it's so hard. I have to work, and then go home and take care of my wife and the baby. I'm going to get sick at this rate.
I also heard if a player has committed 5 fouls then he must be out of the game.
that's Ok. you know, digital devices are becoming smaller and easier to carry, and they won't cost you too much.
Don't worry, we'll soon fix them.
well, I have to tell you that I'm quite surprised. Is there any possible way to change your mind?
Yes, I'm here to fix your pipes.
I'll come wake you when it's ready, okay?
Oh. I'm just going to take it easy.
If you can, could you pick up my prescription for me?
I think I'll write a book.
In that case, I suppose I could ask the dry-cleaner to clean up the spots for the moment, and have it well pressed. You might get it back on time then.
How long have you lived here?
At 7:30 pm. And I would like to sit in the non-smoking area.
I am confused. How could a golfer need so many clubs? Seems to me, 14 altogether, right
You mean I am groaned a few words?
"Will you be kind to say "" Thank you "" to Mr.Zhang and other friends for me? "
Did you see the information on sales for last year? The sales review was made at our last board meeting. There's a great news for our shareholders.
she doesn't usually wear lipstick. She thinks it makes her nose look too big.
You know, I could really go for that. You don ’ t mind being my wingman for tonight?
Do you have any tangerines? I'd like to have two kilograms.
Do you have any where in mind?
I mean, most reptiles carry some harmful bacteria, they are likely to cause immune system problems.
No, no one has informed me of that so far, tell me.
Sure! Are you okay? You seem a bit worried.What ’ s on your mind?
Yeah. They are emitted directly into urban water supplies.
Very well, I'll try the banana flavor.
Have you taken the written test yet?
Would you wrap it for me?
Ah! Not on me! Ow!
No problem, Rod. I won't play too hard.
Please show me your passport and Residence Permit.
What are we going to do now?
That'll be fine. See you soon.
Fantastic! The whole city is echoing with crackling sounds!
Certainly. Come back soon.
I told you to hurry up a thousand times. You just put a deaf ear to it.
Enjoy your stay.
Welcome to China, Paula.
No, I didn't save this time.Damn it! And I'm sick of writing this paper. Now I have to write it all over again too.
Oh, it's unbelievable. She is such a chain smoker.
I'm dead serious. They've decided that it's too small to be a planet, but actually they haven't yet agreed on how big something has to be in order to be a planet anymore.
we both have to overcome several obstacles if we are to achieve our ambitions.
Ok, tell me.
Would you tell me where we often travel?
Then I can find something new to do. If I don't have to worry about money, then I don't have to work.
Hi, Jason! Long time no see. How's the hotel?
Yeah. I studied on Sunday evening. What about you?
From Vancouver, we bike along the border all the way to Winnipeg.
You have a phone on the bedside table that you can use.
Sure. Are you wearing any make-up?
it's a total rip-off of an American reality show, but the imitation is unbearably clumsy.
He got a job and now he owns a small grocery in town.
Yes. But she is very busy right now. Can you call her later?
Are you interested in a full-time or part-time position?
I think you should put an advertisement in the China Daily, saying when and where you lost it.
Do you want to send it by air or by regular mail?
Good evening, sir. Are you Mr Jim Stewart from the States?
Hello, miss. I would like to check out.
That ’ s it. What ’ s your name. please?
Sorry, I'm late.
I quit my job as a food critic.
I just found out that my husband is cheating on me.
Sure. I ’ d like to see how it washes.
Well, talk to him about it next time you see him. He probably feels as bad about it as you do. Close friends sometimes have disagreements. It’s nothing unusual. Neither of you said anything really nasty, did you?
What size are you looking for?
Well, she's got a beautiful face and long curly red hair.
Bruh, that the meal was on point.
Hi, Mary, I have decided to look for a job as a salesman.
What is your salary expectation for this position?
Well thank you! In that case, I am 26 years old, and what about yourself?
To be honest, I really wanted to exchange my GAP, but I suppose USD will be fine. I have some and I just need a little local currency for expenses. Could you tell me what the rate is like today?
You're welcome, bye!
Let me get a bag of chips too.
You can't pay your fine without your ID.
It's at the back. I think you are near-sighted. You had better get yourself a pair of nice glasses.
Good afternoon, Mrs. White.
They're really running you into the ground. Why don't you ask for some time off? You could take a long weekend and have a good rest.
thanks, that was nice of you.
That ’ s OK. What are the weight restrictions for checked baggage?
I agree with you on that, Annie. I've worked for Derek Drummond for nine years now. I feel he appreciates his employees for their work, not their gender. I would never change jobs.
I have earned a lot of money this week, more than I do in a fortnight.
Does my room have twin beds or a double? I prefer a room with twin beds.
How do Mark and Jones compare, in your opinion?
Is that your cousin in the back?
No, but I think it'd be really great for people like you who are always on the go.
Have you arranged for someone to take notes for you?
Yes, I'll see that she get the message when she checks in.
Well, what do you suggest then? How about 8 %?
Sorry, Becky can ’ t come to the phone right now.
Give me one bottle of one hundred tablets.
It’s a perfectly good school.
Excuse me. I get confused that the two phones on the booth are different, can you tell me how to use them?
how many rooms would it have?
So, are you going to read the novel or watch the movie?
Not at all. The feedback from audience has been great. I care about what they think more than what the critics think.
So you don't travel a lot now?
Can I see it for a second?
Belinda, I ’ m going to a party tonight. What shall I wear?
Great! Warm up with some scales and arpeggios first. Good, good. This week, work on keeping the rhythm steady when you play the last part with the sixteenth note. Now let ’ s take a look at this
Have you got any experience in advertising?
I picked up some poison oak while hiking, and I can ’ t stop itching.
Hi. I've been sent over from Turner Interiors. They said I need to collect some sort of L / C? Do you have it?
I don't think that shade of green will go with my complexion. Do you have any of those skirts in black or tan?
You hit the white ball with your cue. The white ball hits the colored balls. And you want to get the colored balls into the pockets.
You know she probably feels just as bad.
Tom, aren ’ t you a little too old to be trick-or - treating?
Will you tell me the situation?
Have a biscuit instead. Eat more and smoke less!
Front desk, can I help you?
That's right. We have to slow down again. If we haven't meet the passing tree, we have to stop a car away.
Certainly. The product has a two-year guarantee. If it breaks down during that period we offer a replacement unit completely free of charge. Our products are very reliable but we recommend you take out an extended warranty. This covers you for a further two years.
You should try to put your best foot forward, and be careful of your personal appearance. At least you should get yourself dressed up. Appearance isnt everything, but it's the first thing an interviewer notices about you.
I like talking to you too.
I like Indian food as well.
Sorry, I dialed the wrong number.
Yes, and there are many houses nearby. I like it that the neighbourhood isn ’ t full of apartment blocks.
Is this 617-228-2289?
Are you alright, child?
There is a charge on my card that I didn't make.
Good news. Thanks for getting things done so quickly.
Unleaded. My car is new.
I took a taxi. It seemed the easiest thing to do.
You are a brave kid. Go ahead to the registration office first, then to the doctors.
But the reservation keeps the car here. That ’ s why you have the reservation.
Think of the big face down the eve, hmm.
Three months? Incredible!
That's Anna for you. She keeps up the image of the stylish Italian woman. Here she comes.
Well, it's because in most countries liquor has a higher tax on it.
Fine, I want to book one for overnight.
We've found some heroin at your house.
You said it. You know, they fell in love at the first sight and quickly jumped into marriage.
Yeah, I'm very nauseous. It's mostly nausea and a fever.
Which of the steps are you focusing on in brandgrowth Awareness, understanding, acceptance, or loyalty?
Is anyone else sick in your home?
It's really cold. It snowed all day and the school closed early.
Oh, great! That's at the other end of the terminal!
As you know, China has a single-child policy. Therefore, there ’ s just my husband, my daughter and I. What about in your family?
Hurry up, guys! The train is about to leave.
You're right. One minute it's hot, and then the next minute it's cold.
I don't know the exact time. Maybe I lost it last night when I was traveling on the bus.
Well, you had more than one day ; couldn't you have fit it in on another day?
Honey, it's almost noon. We have to go home and make lunch for your sister.
You're going to need to take two buses to get to that Sons.
It seems as if they got busy and left it sitting before it got to us.
Come on, son, you ’ re looking at this too naively, the Chinese market has exhibited a great deal of instability, and their currency has been devalued by almost a whole percentage point.
May I have a pillow and blanket, PLS?
Well, if you decide to go, I could meet you over there at 1
That should work. I ’ ll see you tomorrow when you return to work.
Would you mind giving me a hand?
Not really, but I've got used to it now.
Give me one bottle of thirty tablets.
I love this store. The only problem is that It’s extremely expensive.
As along as we stay away from anything alcoholic, we should be okay.
Great work. I ’ m off for the weekend! See you on Monday.
I believe you will. I ’ m very pleased with your work. Your promotion will contribute to the development of the company.
Oh... I am really worried about the exam. I have no idea what will be on it.
The summers are so great here! Not hot at all. I love the cooling breezes, the clear air, all the greenery.
I ’ m looking forward to seeing Westminster abbey, where many historic figures are buried, like Isaac Newton, the great mathematician and Winston Churchill, the great wartime leader.
Yep. Every country in the world has a different system, but here we buy insurance from a private provider.
Certainly. And what vegetables would you like?
Studying in the university is not easy, but it's not as arduous as you think.
You know the phrase the survival of the fittest. We have no choices.
It's just what I wanted.
Well, there was one good piece of news. You remember the local girl who was dying of a rare blood disease?
The 4 x6 will be OK. Thanks.
A small glass, or a big one?
I expect all Chinese can play table tennis.
That is nice. But I don't quite like the collar.
James Cameron, of course.
Did you receive your PIN number yet, Madam? You see, unless you have your new PIN number, to match your new card, you cannot use it. We usually send that separately, around one day after the card, for security reasons.
Very nice. Thank you for your time.
Good morning, and welcome to Live Tech. It is my honor to make this presentation for you. Let me begin by explaining some of our digital cameras ' selling points. You will see immediately that they are very stylish, but what you can't see is the cutting-edge technology inside. All of our cameras are light, compact, and easy to use.
Well, we've just acquired a new business so we need to set up a lot of services with you. We are particularly interested in Agent Services.
I feel much better, but I'm still worried about something.
What do you consider to be your weakness?
Thank you, I ’ ll pay next then.
Sure, we have both skirts and trousers that would look well with the sweater. Look at this section.
Excellent. You can borrow my Janet Jackson's CD. It's her new one.
Where is your store located?
Thank you, here's your change.
Do we get a day off from school then?
It's Helen Kent.
Which seafood do you prefer?
I would like to buy some flowers, please. Something really nice.
I believe they are a local delicacy in the South.
Trina, will you marry me?
What did they say?
Your parents are not like that?
No, I listen to background music.
the James ’ s file, Christine?
I can do that. Do you have anyone that you would like to bring with you to the party?
All right. Let's chat next time. Bye-bye.
Yeah. It'll be a shoppers heaven. That's the use of net in E-commerce.
Your appointment for Friday at 6 pm has been confirmed.
Oh, it's really beautiful, but I just can't dance it well.
That sounds quite big! How many people live there?
For what? Complaining about what happened in the elevator?
I know that. I mean I couldn't understand her at all.
Sure. It has 1.8 liter engine. This one comes with all power options, air condition, CD player, full size spare tire, automatic transmission and ABC. The window price is $ 17,000, and I can give You for $ 16.000.
I think there must be.
I think we should begin the letter with a salutation, and the salutation must be very formal.
I have to have at least eighteen to keep my scholarships and grant. But so far, I only have fifteen.
OK, now go down to the basement and find the circuit box. Open it and check if there are any fuses blown out.
The charge was for a $ 350 purse, but I did not buy it.
Yeah. Let's just lounge around!
I would like to register for a class today.
I want to be in a higher managerial position in the field of international marketing. I ’ m very interested in the European market hopefully, in Brussels.
Why don ’ t you go to work late?
Do you want to make another appointment?
The United Nations should have more authority.
Mine's 20/20. Life just isn't fair, is it?
OK. This way, please.
I saw her yesterday. She was a little better.
Don't brother me!
What if we miss something?
I've got to commend you ; you really did a good job.
Seats No. 20 and 21. It’s nice that we ’ Ve got a window seat.
I don't know what other people think, but I, for one, envy only children!
Why don't you start cooking then?
Yes, I know. I think Honda is the most reliable car on the road. I would never change to anything else.The Honda I have now almost never has service problems. It runs smooth as silk.
I'd like to invite you for dinner tonight. Do you think you'll have time?
Could I speak to the apartment manager?
Normally, I would take you up on that suggestion, but just the champagne will do for tonight.
Acupuncture may cause just a little pain, but it also causes a certain feeling of numbness and distension.We ' ll try it every day for seven days.Will that be all right?
Janice, do you still remember how our filing system works?
"Yes. If your "" Love, Amy "" purchases amount to 10,000 NT or more, you get a V. I. P. card and a 20 percent discount."
I'm just responding to Sue's letter. Do you want to help?
Let me see. Roll up your sleeve, please. Um... it's swollen and red here. I'm afraid we'll need to take an X-ray to see if it's broken.
No, there ’ s no need. Thank you all the same.
Right. I ’ ll have him call you back.
I want to leave the department. Do you think I could put info a transfer?
What is a visa used for?
Yes, let's get something to eat.
There ’ re Beijing roast duck.
It ’ ll take about 20 minutes.
Hey Susan, what are you coming as this year?
Would you like a lift home?
Sure, I promise.
Make sure to take proper care of this video.
Do you have a minute?
It must be fun. But you know, I am not good at chess. I never won since I've learnt to play chess.
Yes. You have to teach me the samba, and the tango, and whatever else they do.
Never! Do you know his new number?
That's where the shoe pinches.
Hello baseball fans, and welcome back to today ’ s game! My name is Rick Fields and of course, I am here, once again, with the man that seals the deal, Bob Copeland. '
What are you typing there?
Of course. I'm John Sandals.
That's great. I'll wait. See you next weekend.
Thank you. I'd tike to buy some milk powder for my baby. Is there anything that you can recommend for me?
Sorry. How far is the museum?
It’s Mike, her boyfriend.
You'll just need roughly $ 10 for food and gas money. My friend is driving, so we usually all chip in a few dollars for gas money.
I don't understand of myself. It seems they have to save money.
I can't stand the loud noise in the city.
"This "" Cream of Olives "" is our bestseller for combination skin. You can try it on your hand."
She even stayed at a different hotel. She said I might be contagious.
I like the style but it is a little tight in the waist.
Sounds good. I'd like to take this flight.
That ’ s good. Is the location easily accessible?
Let me see. En.. just a minute. Here it is. I need your signature on this note.
Sure, but I don ’ t have hot water, yet.
It is my first time coming to China. I want to buy something unique of China to my friends as gifts.
never mind. Let's go to the falls and try again.
Fine. They should be here the day after tomorrow.
But we registered at Macy's. People can just buy gifts there.
Oh no! Mike ’ s birthday is a drinkfest for sure!
Let's say sixty Yuan then.
let's go to a car dealership. I'll help you try to sell your car for a good price.
that ’ s even better than the real thing.
Sure. Which button do I press to shoot?
What classes does she take?
Haven't you been listening to a word I've been saying?
Well, I live in the southern hemisphere, so our summertime is your wintertime, and vice versa. We get some rain in every season, but most is in winter. In winter, it sometimes gets cold, but our wine
Even if our company didn't have a dress code, I still think people would wear formal clothing to work.
Oh, yes, I know the one. How was the food?
Do you like the apartment?
Either way, I only allow one missed assignment per semester. When will you be turning the make-up in?
A few nights, I'm not quite sure of my schedule yet.
Is it possible that I have a business trip abroad and work in American once in a while?
Who are we going to play with today?
The weather is often quite different from the weather forecast.
What's the special here?
Good evening, Mr. Lee and thank you for choosing our airline. We have just discovered that this flight is overbooked. Would you like to volunteer to give up your seat?
We cannot expect politics to be true anyway.
You didn't ring me last night. You said you would.
No, that ’ s enough, thank you.
Thank you very much. Hope to see you again.
You only have $ 57 left in your checking account.
I am supposed to go to Liu Ichang.
that's good to know. Why do you think you ’ re qualified for this position?
Which bus goes there?
Why should we run after the fashion?
How many places have you worked altogether?
Keep it and use it as rag. You can clean your bicycle with it.
Then we drive on the M25. it turns south. When we reach exit 15, we turn left and go west along the M4.
Oh, thank you.
Let ’ s see. Do you want to go to a bar and sing some karaoke?
... So what I think we need to do is ( XXXXXXXXXX ) finish on time.
Do you have any information about the city sights?
Okay, sir, let me hit the delete button, and your reservation will be cancelled.
First of all, we'll tailor a work-out plan according to your physical conditions and your personal needs.
How often do you exercise?
Great! This calls for a celebration.
Good morning. Madam. What can I do for you today?
Mr. Black? I'm from the Pacific Mechanical Company.
It has only been 6 months, our relationship hasn't had a chance to maturate. We are still have some hurdle we have to jump over.
Well, yes, I did. I ate some candy.
Let ’ s see... six hundred and twenty-five US dollars.
We're approaching the critical point for success or failure of this project. you'd better speed up and catch up with books.
I won't ever forget it! I was sitting in the cafeteria all by myself...
Yes, I did. I had a fine time.
Isn ’ t there a place in france where people go to get healed?
I'm also going to add some layers to frame your face.
Are you laughing at me?
How about this... We can make it a working lunch this afternoon, and I'll order some Chinese food for delivery. It'll be my treat.
Very sorry that I have caused you so much trouble.
Well, except for one night, I enjoyed the hotel. And I loved New York, of course.
Keep lying down. The matter is that all the medicine here is past expiration.
"Well, thin is always "" in "" with the media."
Me too. No one has expected he can really get somewhere with his business.
so, you ’ re smart.
Just press into it gently with your thumb. If it feels soft, it's ready to eat.
Yes, I believe there are green teas, black teas and scented teas. Any Others?
that's good of you. why did you decide to get a rabbit.
I'll spent more time with you in the future, Dina.
That must be a long love story.
Go to Gate 56, the plane is now boarding, you must hurry.
You mean one for the city?
Not really. There aren ’ t any used bookcases listed. But there are a few rummage sales on Saturday. I think I ’ ll go to them.
Do you have a park in the city?
OK, the job is a full-time one.
Yeah, but i was afraid to fall back asleep. I am worrying about getting into the University of Michigan.
I see. Can I pay by traveler ’ s checks?
Hi, I ’ m Ray, your tenant in Room 209.
Do you really think that global warming Wil destroy Earth some day?
May I see your ticket and passport, PLS?
What's your name, sir?
Well, that is a question. You want to offer a suggestion?
Mmm, well this is our “ I ’ m sorry I cheated on you ” package. Two dozen red roses lined with tulips, carnations and lilies. The fragrance and beauty of this flower arrangement is sure to make her forgive you.
I don ’ t see it on the shelf.
I plan to travel around Harvard University and know more about it. To tell you the truth, I plan to apply for Harvard after graduation from high school. It’s better to get to know it. What about you?
I certainly do. Here it is, an Export L / C from Tokyo.
I need to be in the city centre this afternoon so I will be coming straight from there.
Yes, I want to get a better job.
Thank you. It's my honor.
Sure. What's this one a picture of?
Well, they are both all right.
Sounds like this weekend just isn't going to work out for us.
I'm sorry, sir. I can't interrupt her. I'm sure she won't be very long.
No, I'm going back to America to visit. I'm from America, but I don't live there now. I live in Taichung.
Ha... I am not sure.
Me, too! The chips here are so light and crispy.
What do you think are the qualities a nurse should have?
The first is why you choose our company?
Oh, you don't have anything smaller?
You can pick up your keys on Tuesday night. When you actually move in is up to you.
And I can choose any color?
I think I'll try it.
Why didn't you report it before?
It's going to be sunny tomorrow.
Do you think it'll be full now?
I really don't think it's any of your business.
Great. Your order will take only one week.
It's time for your bath, young lady.
You are going to work as my office secretary from next Monday. Right now I want to show you the rules of our company.
When pigs fly!
Why not go and see a doctor?
I have a question about my cable.
How will you ship the order?
Right... anything else?
Of course I remember you.
Yes. It says here, ' He who only half breathes, half lives. '
Give me your information, in case I don't hear from you.
I've heard of ground-level ozone but can you explain what it is exactly?
You are welcome, bye.
Dentale Associates. I'm afraid there's nobody available to answer your call. Please leave your name and telephone number and we'll call you back. Please speak clearly after the beep.
I think it looks gorgeous.
Excuse me, what's the charge for a picture?
Ok, dear.We will be late.
Oh, yeah, I got it, there is a bank My friend exchanged her money there.
I do envy you. And I hope I can enter your school one day.
I'm going to try to leave by ten.
( The hair stylist cuts the customer's hair. ) Almost done. I just have to even things up a bit. ( She shows the customer the results. ) Will that do?
Just go to the ticket office in the subway.
I like to drive on freeway.
That ’ s fine. Can I move now?
Can I give you a hand?
But isn't it the same with wiki?
It'll take you about 15 minutes.
Can you tell me something about financial aid?
Excellent. How is your English ability in reading and writing?
In that case, I'll be seeing you.
I have my passport right here, and here are the account details. The name, number...
Please fill out the form.
What are coupons?
Let me have a try. The author takes the characters peculiar to the British people as a topic to show that they are quite different from other nationalities. They are quiet, shy and reserved...
That's fine, madam.
How long will you be staying, sir?
I ’ m looking for a bookcase, but I don ’ t want to buy a new one.
I won't argue with that! Let's go!
Seven dollars!!! Incredible! But I saw that the seller has kind of a bad rating.
What I can tell you is that I voted for our next President of the United States.
Here ’ s an interesting ad
Well, since it's summer and it looks like you've had quite a bit of sun, I'd recommend our summer special. It's especially suited for individuals with sensitive skin.
How many shifts are there in your factory?
It's October the 1st, our National Day. I'd like to talk some more, but I've got to get going now. It was nice talking to you, though.
And where's the elevator?
I get it now.
Right. Like our LPF program. The mortgage size is linked with the amount of savings households have accumulated on their LPF accounts.
Hello. Good morning, Stately Restaurant. May I help you?
My name is Wang Liang, I ’ m from Beijing. Where do you come from?
We can change only three kinds of currency, USD, Japanese Yen and HK Dollar in our savings office.
Yeah, of course. You can take a taxi.
Oh, my son looks like a grown-up.
I ’ m relieved to hear that. Anyway, It’s my fault.
"Yes. Please send one "" Fried Rice, Hangzhou Style "" and one "" Fruit Salad "" to my room."
I can think of two things made of paper — stationery and money.
Yeah, that's fine.
Yes, here you go. I don't need a visa to go to Spain, do I?
I am glad you are happy.
Besides, can you take up the hem one inch?
I think she's lived there for about 10 years.
Yes. I overheard your mom and my mom talking in the grocery store.
Well, It’s a bit of a mixed bag in Utah today. we ’ Ve got heavy cloud cover here in Northern Utah, and we ’ re calling for scattered showers throughout the day, with a day-time high of forty-five degrees.Now, if we move down to the south of the state, we can see that a cold front is moving in.We can expect clear skies, but it will be quite cold, with temperatures hovering around the thirty degree mark.
There are many new kinds of newspapers. I find it hard to choose among them. Which is the most popular paper circulating in our city?
Clear soup. I think tomato soup is fine.
No, thank you. I don't need any skirts.
Yes. It says it will be sunny all day. No sign of rain at all.
Now let me show you around. This is our reception area, and our conference room is right over there. Over there is the sales department.
Are we supposed to get off right here?
Yes, please. My telephone number is 2974-5328, and you can call me at any time in the daytime.
Here's the latest model — Digital Barbie.
Not yet. I seem to move my house to that place. You don't know how tight the schedule is for this trip.
Oh, I get it. My email address is bluedog123@yahoo.com.
Do you think it's time to sign the contract, Mr. Simpson?
Is there an alarm system in the apartment?
You can make as many copies as you want.
Well, I think I'm in better condition now.
Ann, do you have time next Monday?
Good. I love Chinese food. What did you order?
Oh, I see. By the way, is tender-opening done publicly?
Totally agree. What is your solution?
I'd like to make an appointment right now.
Give me your hand. ( takes Rose's hand ) Close your eyes. Go on. ( Rose closes her eyes ) Step up. Now hold on to the rail. Keep your eyes closed ; don't peek.
Here's your change and receipt. Thank you.
Let's go to Julian Store.
This is Nathaniel Brown.
OK, tell me your friend's name.
How about 5:00 PM?
I am afraid we are sticking to our choice.
Well, if you insist, you are welcome to bring a potato salad!
I wonder if you can help me. I'm looking for a room.
Yes I can. I speak it very well.
That would be perfect.
You can withdraw money from your account either over the counter or via the ATM.
Of course, sir. You've made a good choice.
I would like to begin by introducing our foreign guests to our stuff on your left ( right ), we have Mr. Brown, who is Vice President of Sales. Next to him is Ms. Arts, Director of Marketing for the Atlas Company. In the back row is Dr. Barolo, who is visiting from Italy. Thank you all for coming.
I'm so thirsty.
I miss you too. Tell me where you like to do the next day.
Let me know if you do need anything.
I'm sorry.My car's taken.
What about tomorrow? Are you doing anything tomorrow?
I have just arrived in Scotland and I'm staying at a Youth Hostel.
There you go. Problem solved.
I like the new shirt.
Did you buy tickets already?
I know that starting reporters work many hours. I'm very willing to take on the challenge.
The leopard print sounds fabulous. Are they a name brand?
I'd like to buy a tapestry to decorate my new room.
I was thinking about seeing that one about the rapist serial killer.
Yeah, should we get out and help?
Do you feel that you have received a good general training?
But you ’ re in China. Are you planning on going home for Christmas?
This is only your second time skiing. This is definitely a case of the blind leading the blind.
Oh, this is fine.
Why do people eat rice cakes on that day?
You should just pay someone to fix it.
you're right. I probably should just work on my paper. Thanks!
OK. I ’ m 24 this year. I earned my college diploma from the Night College of Foreign Languages Institute in 2010. My major is English. Recently I ’ Ve also earned my degree in Secretarial Technology.
Hey, Benjamin, have you finished your report on the project?
All right. See you tomorrow night.
Well, I am a beginner. I...
but we've done that many times. We want something fresh this time.
I really appreciate the help. How many years have you been with the company?
Come on! It is really a fun game.
Everything is now. I'm kind of sick of it.
What you said was right, but we need to work as a team, how could you make adjustment to that?
Yes, They are great fun and very challenging, too. Some day I'll want to try deep-sea diving and rock-climbing, too.
I was hoping to talk to you about the sales projections for next year. I ’ m having a little trouble figuring out how to use the spreadsheet you set up for me. It has a lot of complicated form
Doctor, can you give me some suggestions on how to stay healthy?
I got the information that there is a killer sale at the shopping mall near our block. Get up and I will wait for you at the gate of our flat.
Good morning.Are you through with the cleaning? If not, we'll come back a little later.
That will be no problem, sir.
I need some cigarettes.
Yes. I've already put it in my suitcase.
He's working too hard.
Long Distance. May I help you?
I know you didn't.
The Lakers. Jordan is the only good player Washington has.
I go to movies ; I go to lectures ; I listen to the radio ; I do lots of things. Most importantly, I practice every chance I get.
That ’ s right.They taste so good.We eat them with mint sauce.Have you ever tried them?
I should've just stayed on the bus.
Do you know what the responsibilities are for a stewardess?
Uh, the Origin of Law. And it's written by Professor Felix of Harvard.
Thank you. And what's on tomorrow?
Yes, I read about all of these in the brochure and decided which would be more suitable for me. I'd like to go for the guarantee mode, please.
How is your job search 1 going, Janet?
Nothing came in the mail telling me my polling place.
Oh, photography, It’s really a good hobby.
Well, I'm an English major, you know.So I came here to make sure I'm taking the right things.
Hi Angie, It’s Tom Reynolds here. Can you tell me if my tuition fees for this semester have been approved?
Do you have your driver's license?
Excuse me. Does this bus go to the National Library of China?
It’s at the park up the street.
Oh. Take it easy. You can set your aim from today.
Do you do morning exercises?
From 7 to 9 o'clock.
Oh, I see. I thought maybe it was just the time of the day, although it isn't usually busy at 2:30 in the afternoon.
IKEA has beautiful furniture.
Are the rooms nice and bright?
Wake up, it's time for school.
It means that a tornado has been seen somewhere in the area.
Give me a moment while I complete your transaction.
I never took that yet. If that was your favorite, I think I will check it out.
Anything subject to duty in your suitcase?
Oh I ’ m sorry. I think I ’ ll call later. Thank you.
I'd like to pick up my package.
I will be coming over to look at it this afternoon. Will you be there?
What would you like, tea or coffee?
You mean it will arrive two hours later than usual?
Hi Kate... thanks... wow! Look at all the furniture. You must spent a fortune on it! I love your new three-pieces suite.
I would love a margarita right now! That is what I am going to order.
Excuse me, what do you want for this bag?
I said he was nothing but a yeoman.
Oh... Um... I don't think so. you know the halogen lighting is much more expensive than your track lighting system. Plus I'm going to have to call in some guys to install it for you. That's not going to come cheap.
Very good idea. Sometimes such pictures can show the house's richness.
I can tell you where I got mine.
Yes, I can also learn about the traffic condition through it.
Oh, I see. We have both hard and soft contact lenses. They are very popular, but a little more expensive than ordinary glasses.
I won't say who, because I'm not sure yet. But I'll know soon.
I don't understand the projected revenues.
I hope you can make a clever choice. Anyway, the opportunities around you are not that By.
Okay. Now what?
Do you think the weather will be good this weekend?
yes, I know. Fast food is so popular in this district.
Um, hello again. Are you sure you don't want to make a purchase, sir?
May I know your occupation?
I want to check these books out.
Oh yeah, it was great! He took me to an Italian restaurant and we had an amazing conversation. I told him about how many kids I want, and how my parents will be so excited to meet him.
Take good care of yourself, Mary.
A one-bedroom apartment has one bedroom, a living room, a kitchen and a bathroom.
Good morning. My name's Jason Smith.
I'll do it later, Dad. I must prepare the concert on Saturday.
No, it's not. So you don't have any type of allergies?
When could we meet to discuss the project?
Very good! Chinese food rules! I expect the next time.
This is your table.
Mr. Rodgers, this is George. He will take care of your luggage and show you to your room. If there is anything I can do for you, please let me know.
That's good to know. Thanks.
I'll take two more, a red one and a white one.
They are blind with bucks. Blind people are more easily conned, fo course.
Right. Here it is.
That's very considerate of you. May I have my bill?
Ms. : With a hall pass, you can go to the ladies ' room or wherever you need to go during class time.
Fresh fruits and vegetables are important, along with protein and whole grains.
Why not? It is a good opportunity for me to practise cooking.
Let's see, I've got about $ 50 to get me through the weekend. I can only spare about $ 20. I would give you more if I had it, I just don't have much money to my name right now.
Yes, I think so. But how do you prove to me that you are more capable?
All right, I will try my best. If there aren ’ t any holdups, I think we can get there in time.
Yes, that ’ s funny. I thought you liked it.
That ’ s for sure. You ’ re new, too, huh?
Very glad to know something about you, then what are you going to do when you finish.
Verry sorry to have kept you waiting so long. What do you want, Madam?
Mango juice would be perfect. Thank you!
Do you have a lot on your mind when you try to go to sleep?
What was the last movie you saw?
What about my rights?
I could use some help on moving day. What are you doing on Saturday?
My company wants to become involved in your Comprehensive Credit Granting. We are a very young company and I'm not at all sure if we meet your credit requirements.
Yes, he asked me to clean up my diet by cutting red meat.
Oh, yes. There is a big one at the right corner of the street. Perhaps you will get one there.
London is such a historic city! There ’ s history everywhere you look. There ’ s nelson ’ s column, built as a monument to one of the Britain ’ s great admirals and his important victory. He won the battle of
Really? How long will your holiday last?
It's almost midnight! We are about to start a brand new year!
We run a fully equipped computer lab on the first floor.
Yes, I think so. That would be more than I have wished.
Does the 7th floor belong to our company too?
that's great, that's good for a positive work environment and helps motivate employees. I wish my boss was like that.
I try to do that, but I can ’ t get up early enough.
Across the courtyard on the right is the office. Follow the signs to the correct line. Is that clear?
She is a teacher in a highschool, She teaches Chinese.
By how much?
OK. Let me see. Air China has a flight on October 15th at 10:00 in the morning.
It's great. I really get to focus on what I like to do and everyone has been very nice and welcoming. However, I'm having a small problem with my new colleagues.
where is that?
Will you give your friends a buzz and put out a feeler to see if they like to offer me a loan?
OK. I'd like to say that I've really enjoyed working with you.However, I think you should work harder at your new job and then you can ask for higher pay.
I can't find it now.
Turn to the next window and they will help you find one.
I am sure you will. There are some works, and some students who major in painting interpret the meaning for visitors. And people can enjoy the paintings while waiting for the train.
Ok, I lost 5 pounds.
What do you think about the equipment in our company?
She's trying to be supportive, but I can tell she is very worried about our financial situation as well.
Vince says he can't afford anybody else. We're got to come through.
we ’ ll be eight or nine people. Could we book a private room?
I prefer cooked fish to raw fish, but if you really like it, make it.
I should think so, too!
Yes, that's correct, Madam. You don't need to go to a counter at all, you can use one of our ATM machines. I'll be more than happy to help you.
Hello. This is Doctor Bell ’ s Office. Can I help you?
Oh, I know a place where you might like to eat.
In this period, you can only get the basic salary, 2,500 yuan per month.
Come on! It's time to go!
Oh, I am very sorry, Hans. Thank you for waiting for me. You must have been here a long time already.
It's whatever you're planning on cooking.
It was nothing.
That's the kind of thing in America that gets me mad. Some guy pulls off a stock scheme and makes millions while spending the bare minimum sentence in jail.
Do you know what the temperature is today?
Four - plus public holidays. I usually take two weeks off in the summer and the rest at New Year.
It comes to $ 100.
We have an appointment in half an hour.
First of all, you should keep proper posture and make eye contact with the speaker with a smile.
When is the first meeting then?
That's not good. You don't have a well-balanced diet. Have you been taking vitamin pills?
Tom set the whole country by the ears with his discovery.
By the way, what's the rate for a single room?
Will that bus really take me to LA?
Peter, if you don't do it soon, I will throw your toys in the trash can.
Could you also let me view some of the testimonials? I'd really be interested to see what other group companies thought of this service.
Just bring along whatever it is that you and Jake would like to drink.
What reason do you have for missing school?
What did you do last week?
But I don ’ t think we can change our working condition. Anyway, we are not the bosses.
Good morning, Linda. How have you been?
Hi. I ’ m interested in renting a one-bedroom apartment.
Sure. It was considered desirable that a well-educated ancient Chinese scholar could be well versed in zither, weigh, calligraphy and painting. I think weigh is the most fantastic of them. It embodies ancient Chinese wisdom and cultural profoundness.
Wow! I ’ m very excited about your ceremony.
Bill, I have received the admission letter from Cambridge University!
Yes, I do. I think that science is making us wiser. What do you think?
Well whatever, I'm glad you came.
Oh, yes, I am. I have always wanted to go to the States. I love meeting new people. And making new friends.
Let's go out and have a look.
They have moved to some other places long time ago.
that makes sense. Who interviewed you?
Excuse me, may I help you?
It’s only $ 5.
I got on about fifteen minutes ago.
What date is it today?
I've always admired engineers.
Good. So I will take three series and five bamboo ones.
What is it used for? I mean, why bother to get this special account?
Hi, Charles. What's the matter?
Actually, tears also came to my eyes.
Then we'd better get started.
You must feel very uneasy at his home.
Well, we can see it for ourselves. Did she tell you when we can go and look at it?
I don ’ t like her husband, that bad egg, but my daughter insists on marrying him.
We should say we are very interested in that job, and we hope to get that job.
About 3 weeks.
Whatever. Just turn right here.... The freeway will be packed at this hour.... let ’ s take a side street.Go on! Get out of our way! Move, move!
You know Miao Li-my roommate, he bought a computer last month. He has turned his computer into an electronic playground. He plays football, rides horses, drives racing cars, and does a whole bunch of other games. Every night he keeps me up.
Please look into the matter and solve the problem immediately.
Your daughter should get straight A's from now on. Good-bye.
Yeah, right. But what did you put on your face last night? Those little greenish things.
And have you taken anything for it?
You're very welcome. Here is my card, if you need any help.
Did they catch him?
There we are! It’s a lovely vase.
That is good. We hope each of our future employees will be healthy and happy.
Excuse me. Do you mind telling me the time when the recruitment will officially start?
Excuse me, Professor. I think there might be an error in my test score.
I think I caught a cold.
I'm a firm United supporter. I like their playing style. The Reds always have several excellent wing-backs, Like Riggs, Peckham and Gary Neville. They often make wonderful crosses when they assist in attacking.
Oh, sorry, David Richton.
How about textile industry?
My prize was for the best player in the country. Now let's start playing chess seriously.
It has a built-in hard-wired memory, but I like to use the 64MB media cards that come with it. I can download everything onto the hard drive and then edit and enhance with different software. It takes fantastic pictures that I can either print out or E-mail to my friends.
Yes, I do. Blue Cross.
That will be fine. And I can promise you that you'll get the goods about two weeks after we get your purchase order.
Only in this way can you leave a good impression on the interviewer.
Oh, you're kidding! I thought I was heading east.
why not? I love animals and I love nature.
Why do I need an appointment?
I know I should be pretty happy here, but I'm not finding the kind of job satisfaction I need. I'm a good graphic designer...
Yes. That ’ s for today. Thank you.
Wow, they really went to town on this place!
Have a heart, honey. You know I am trying hard to quit drinking, don't you? Just give me one more chance, please!
I see. That's what I thought.
Excellent.Well, what other questions do you have Rebecca?
Escrow involves a lot of paperwork, but I will explain all of the steps to you as we go along.
We have a selection of orange, apple, grape and lemonade.
How about tomorrow?
I think it suits you well.
Then I might as well have it out now.
That sounds very interesting!
First, let's read Clause Two about packing. It's our usual practice to ship our products in containers. That'll save time and money, but your contract stipulates the use of wooden cases. So, we'd like to have the words containers are allowed in the contract.
Goodbye and all the best.
Hey, John. Nice car.
Hi, boss. You have a call.
It's under the table.
Then what are the Westerners fit for?
Nowadays, they offer so many services, you hardly know which one to choose. Take mailing for example. Do you send something first class or second class or do you use EMS?
Come on.Let ' s walk there.
Welcome to the International Business Department. How can I help you?
Well, let's go and have something to drink instead. I know a good place. It's a little expensive, but it's fun.
OK, well, that ’ s all I need to know for now. If something comes up, we ’ ll be contacting you.
The most you will experience will be a dry cough but you probably won ’ t experience anything negative.
Do you really like it?
Very good. Now can you tell me the hours of operation?
Couldn't get connection?
I thought she was going to call when she was done shopping. It was a misunderstanding. She was literally screaming on the phone over this.
At the mall on 5th street.
Oh, yeah, but not today. I am busy with praying the subway may get there as fast as possible.
No, it's all included. Besides, students don't have to pay council tax, so we're saving quite bit of money by living here.
How about having dinner with me?
Oh, dear! I won't be back until about 11:30 tonight. Where can I pick up my bag?
Because I am loved by the most beautiful girl in the world!
How do I know if there is a vacancy in a company?
Twenties and some smaller bills, please.
Compared to the shortest route, you may pay around 5 Euro more.
Really? Well the special effects might have been good in 1997, but when you watch it today they make the film seem really cheesy.
Come on. Let's split the difference, 15 %.
I have thought about it for a while. I think It’s time to move on for both of us.
And I would say the logo is successful mainly because it comes from Japan.It is the Japanese that have made it a fad.
Like Regarding our new product line, we would like to announce a special price discount
I'll see you then.
Oh, here. I ’ m afraid it ’ ll be difficult to repair.
That sounds great! Have you eaten?
Yes. I ’ d like to book a duplex suite.
Fantastic! I enjoy clubbing, especially those clubs with live bands. The only fly in the ointment is that the air is bad, full of smoke, and the music is too loud, so conversations are not really possible. Once I nearly got burnt by a cigarette.
It’s very good. Check in and check out at the reception only took a few minutes. The wait staff is very good. A waiter recommended their baked fish, which tasted wonderful. The hotel was quite full, so I ’ d suggest making a reservation if you intend to go there. The hotel offers a discount at the weekends.
Alright. I'll buy a newspaper when I go to the drug store.
Here you are Mr. Lee. Will there be anything else?
Thanks, that was nice of you.
So, what can I do for you today? Are you needing to withdraw or transfer?
Yes. The school has provided me with full scholarship and that will be enough to support myself.
The seats are excellent. We're right in the center.
Perhaps you would like chocolate-covered strawberries with the champagne?
This weekend would be OK with me.
Good Morning, sir. What can I do for you?
But it's also a sort of exercise and it's good to your health.
I've asked him, but he won't tell me. What should we do about this? He is like you. I remember when we were at the college, you always skipped classes.
That doctors was lit!
Well, I can give you those figures now over the phone, is that okay? Or do you need them in writing?
Well, we didn't ask for this room service.It must be somebody else's, I'm sure.
Yes. Here's a booking form. Please write down the number you wish to call, the name of the person you want to talk to, and your own name for our reference.
You shouldn't let the dirty dishes accumulate in the sink!
Yes. And it also reminds you what is a suitable weight for each machine.Today, I will go through the machines with you one by one. I will show you how to use them.And we will determine what is a good starting weight for you.
Do you handle the recruiting yourselves?
Right. Well, given that your colleagues are working so hard on this project, I suppose we could change that deadline to Monday morning, I won't have time to look over it on the weekend anyway.
Do you remember our first date? I got a really special gift.
yes, I hope so. I am studying for my BELTS right now.
Excuse me, can you tell me where the breakfast cereals are?
Ya, they do. Anyone else come to mind?
Excuse me. We're leaving today. I'd like to pay our bills now.
There you are.
It seems that I should do some calculations before deciding. I presume that the insurance period can be for as long as we agree.
I'm so happy that you found what you wanted. Do you want to use a credit card?
Neither can I.
what do you do if people want to talk to you online but you don't want to talk to them?
Yes, ma'am, how could I help you?
Oh, fool! You're nearly seventy and I'm in the low sixties. Would you like to spend the rest of the afternoon squabbling about this?
I'm coming back on the 17th.
It’s just I ’ m not feeling well. I think I ’ m coming down with a cold or something.
Thank you, Mr. Brown. I really appreciate your assistance.
I really want to pick your brain about something I've been thinking a lot about.
Damn Scott. You got big.
How much is a ticket to Edinburgh?
Forget about it!
That sounds perfect. Thank you very much for taking the time to speak to me Mr. Parsons.
I just want to talk to you about the tests that I want to run.
Oh, now I see what you mean. When you ’ re reading, you are just looking, but when you are writing, you are actually doing something!
Thank you. Do you want your money back?
No, but thanks anyway.
What about cocktail?
I want to stop off at my apartment to get changed so I should be there by 9 pm.
Really! How fascinating.
Well, what ’ s the weather report?
Oh, he ’ s fine. Kids seem to grow up very quickly nowadays.
There will be no charge on baggage left by guests who have checked out.
Thanks. I'll put it in a safe place.
One less car on the road means less pollution.
Would you please bring us a menu?
Yes. I've read it carefully.
Maybe there's something wrong with her.
The boss announces the pay raise today, right? How much do you think we'll get?
Here? In this cafe? How can you do that?
I am going to the beech. How about coming with me?
1 thirty P. m. But I've got to check in at 12 thirty P. m.
It is. Hurry up! You ’ ll be late for school.
What does your mother do, may I ask?
you should have kept trying.
Can you speed it up and let us have it today?
Have a briefcase ready with all your interview materials in it for easy carrying.
That happened to my oldest girl. She became really upset when her classmates told her Santa wasn't real.
Sorry, I can't. I am busy.
That is good.
All right. Wukesong stop is quite a few stops from here.
I don't know about you, but I'm famished. Are you interested in getting a bite to eat?
I assure you that we will, and if there are any more problems, feel free to tell me.
Have you started your report yet?
After five days ' hard work, I'm surely going to have some fun.
well, that's true. In a sense, it is not so much what you drink that really counts, as where and how you drink.
I'm sure you'll pass it.
I know what you are talking about. The performance evaluation process starts from the day we're hired. There is no surprise during the actual review.
try not to take on more than you can handle.
Can I buy more than one case?
What's up, Bro? What's in the bulletin?
Oh, you've got a good memory.
Weren ’ t you able to find anything less expensive? We're sharing rooms, right?
What do you feel about gay marriage?
Here you are. And here are three crash helmets.
I purchased mine from IKEA.
I don't like peppermint ice cream.
I don't think so. You look full of energy every day. Time has stood still with you.
Yes. I ’ Ve bought all the things to go in it. It won ’ t take long to make. How many people are coming to the party?
Great. Let's go.
Who cares! Well, the smart guys get there early. That's the kind of guy I want to meet. Let's go!
Yes, I would like to have a suit made to measure.
That was a pretty good shot, Mary.
Yes, the same as ever, thanks. What about you?
That's the way to go. Now, you are flying, my boy.
I ordered a ham sandwich, but they gave me a bologna sandwich instead.
Pretty much. The land rises and falls only a few meters. The southeast, the hills rise to a height of a few hundred meters. There are mountains over 1000 meters high in your country.
Okay. You'll be travelling on Northwest Airlines, flight number 222.
Yes, cats are always gentle. and they don't need a lot of space since they're small.
Actually, I ate too much pork yesterday. I fancy a change.
Some people say that history repeats itself.
So you need a quiet side room on the lower floor.
yes, It’s still under warranty. Over the last few weeks, It’s also been making a high - pitch noise when It’s in use.
Oh, I ’ m afraid I can ’ t. I ’ Ve had a date already.
But you'll have 90 days to pay your bill and I'll tell you what... I'll also throw in the discount of 10 % on your up front deposit.
Then what should I do?
No way. I've given you too many chances already.
There's a problem with my schedule.
Hello, Is this EYE computers?
Hi, I need to copy something right now.
Sure. It's my pleasure. I'd like to help you look for the missing keys.
oh, I'm sorry to bother you.
I Like pop music best. Classical music is a bit too heavy for me. I can't get fully relaxed in it.
Could you come and spend the weekend with us?
You know that the prices of the ornaments have been rising in recent years. The prices we offer this time compare favorably with quotations you can get else where.
I have to pay my credit bill too. If I don ’ t pay it soon, the credit card company will charge me interest.
Yes, of course. This way, please.
Good afternoon, Sam.
His house must be worth millions! That is one of the most beautiful areas in Oxford. The surrounding area is really peaceful, and getting into the city centre from there is very convenient. How can he afford that place?
Here is your check, 86 dollars in all. Can I take care of it here when you are ready?
Oh, yes.Here it is.
Good afternoon, sir. You are really a regular customer here. May I ask you why you come here so often?
I didn't bring my ID.
Hello, Mr. Wang. I am glad to meet you here at the fair.
Oh, I see. That ’ s fine. What is the advantage of having higher deductibles?
Well. We plan to contact www. on-line advertising. com.cn and Shanghai Morning Newspaper to discuss the advertisement schedule.
I love it. All my life I wanted to learn to ski. Finally I took lessons last year.
What can I help you with?
That's right. Vince still stops by her office every day to thank her.
There's a new play tonight.
Of course you are. I wouldn't ask you otherwise.
I'm watching reruns of it.
I'm OK.
Are you crazy? You were cheating.
I think that they are a very formal company.
We have discount coupons. 100 Yuan for ten times. Would you like to have one?
The total cost is 850 dollars. How would you like to pay?
Well, we have all kinds of beverages in addition to fruit juices.
Yes, yes. Souvenirs.
There ’ s a train at 7 a. m. It'll get you there at 11 a. m. But there are many stops along the way.
She's my roommate, not my date. The D-man, as in dork.
Excuse me, Mr. Macmillan?
Much better. My heart sank when Mary told me that she wanted to leave me.
Yeah, It’s been ages! So how have you been?
thanks. sorry for making you get out of your seat again.
Hey there, you look a little lost. Are you new here?
It’s too late.
Hey, Rose, how are you feeling?
Why? What's wrong?
You can always make a sandwich.
You look a bit familiar to me. I wonder if I have seen you somewhere before.
No. Their task is to send the aliens here from the outer space.
OK, a moment, please.
You must like this pink one, don't you?
The operator will put all your calls through. You don't have to worry about that.
What about the damage to my car? What are you gonna do about that?
It's in the cabinet. Adam, The gas cooker doesn't work.
That ’ s great! I ’ m glad to hear that Pear has finally jumped on the bandwagon. Right now our contract is for the five megapixel cameras. Is Pear still interested in having those?
Dad, now don't you go getting mush on me.
I'll be glad when winter comes.
Why? It looks like a sunny day.
America was discovered by Christopher Columbus in 1492.
Not a problem. But may I just inform you that we have introduced a new service called Account Renewing upon Maturity?
And how many computers do you sell each day?
What a washing machine! It’s getting worse today. Look! Now it doesn ’ t work at all. I think I need a new one.
You're looking great.
That's the point. We should walk into the nature and enjoy its beauty whenever we have time.
I thought homecoming was a high school dance.
actually, I've only got a two-seater. I'll have to go on my own.
No, can I exchange it for a bigger one?
And your destination?
Could I understand what you said as the poorest is the happiest?
Excuse me. How much is the chocolate bar?
The dress was on sale yesterday.
I heard that too. She must be making a pocket. Well, good for her.
Oh, uh... Thanks. Henry, do you have a light?
Jack! It’s Rose here.
Ha, ha, ha! Yes, I guess I deserved that. Let me explain, okay?
Oh, fresh juice, I love it. Well, I heard American people love hanging out in bars. Is that true?
I'm doing great. What about you?
I was told my girlfriend was speaking ill of me. It's a real letdown.
Sure.You will get more if you can invite more customers with your good service.
Well. No, I didn't clean it.But still, I only had the last one two months, and it broke. I don't trust auto-reverse.
Certainly. Go along Queen's Road...
yes, employees can take up to 10 days of sick leave per year. However, in order to get paid, you ’ ll have to bring in a note from the doctor ’ s.
Cross the street and walk two blocks west.You can't miss it.
Take a look at this dress. Don't you think it's perfect for you, ma'am? Uh, where are you going, ma'am? Ma'am?
Pam and I are wondering if you'd like to go to the mall with us.
Yes, it is. Do you consider a frequent check of your in-coming emails to be an integral part of your working day?
Yes, please give him some water.
And no phone.
Sure! Well, I graduated with honors from Chesterton University with a major in Business Administration, with a specialization in Information Management, and I minored in psychology. I chose this course of study for two reasons. I wanted to gain some practical, marketable skills, which the information management track provided, and I also feel that interpersonal skills are essential for professional success, hence the minor in psychology.
Lily thinks that the job takes a back seat to the family after she is married.
This is No. 1 bus, bound for Sihun.
They don't really think you took it, do they?
I noticed your absence in class this morning.
It is higher than the rate of interest for Current Deposits and a little lower than the rate for the 6 - month time deposits.
How do you want your steaks, rare, medium or well-done?
I am from California in the United States. But I am now studying in England.
Thank you. Also, how can I get my mailbox key?
That ’ s great. What are the prizes?
That sucks. I'd be pissed if that happened to me.
That's right. I've only had some part-time jobs working in department stores.
A Korean film called Friends, starring Sang Dong-gun.
It's wet and rains a lot.But right now it's the golden season to take a tour there. It is fine there almost everyday.
Can you help me, please? Is there a public restroom near here?
I usually have cereal for breakfast.
Hmm. I never thought about it that way.
But that takes too long.
You mean that I won't get a raise until the recession ends?
About 800 yuan.
You ’ ll exert all your energy and get out of it.
And she's good at sports, too. She knows how to play tennis and basketball.
Sure. As many as you want.
No, not really.Just bring yourselves. We would like to your presence.
Yes, most of the time. But, sometimes things can get difficult.
No, don ’ t use them, please.
Where was it from?
Why didn't you just call? I hate sending SMS messages.
Good morning, Mr. Smith. Would you like to see around the factory?
do you often go to concerts?
I love all the fashionable things. But my favorite brand is Chanel.
It'll be free until it comes back on.
I haven't seen this machine before. What's it used for?
What do you drink?
You're going to get into a lot of trouble if you do that.
I partly agree with you. Buying stocks is not difficult, but making money consistently from buying stock is very difficult. Even professionals don ’ t find it easy, so be careful. Anyway, people like us need help with investing. Why not do some online research? There are data, reports and discussion forums to educate people on how to invest. In addition, you need to visit an established website that offers stock charts.
I've been away in Paris for the last two month.Glad to see you again.How are you doing?
What's the Mountaineering Club doing this weekend?
OK, let me check availability. I'm sorry. Tickets for that flight are sold out.
About more three days, I think.
Could you elaborate on that?
You've really turned into a health nut, haven't you?
What's strange about that! As a person born under the sign of Cancer, I am home-loving and wish for a peaceful family life. But according to astrology, Sagittarius guys are too adventurous and risk-taking.They seldom think of leading a settled and peaceful life.
Oh, that ’ s alright.
That's great. You can go take a look.
The account is a compound savings account, which is in RIB and Forex.
Of course! It is the No. 1 stressor in my life. You know job stress has become a very common problem these days. So we must learn to cope with it.
Hi, I ’ m Susan Marshall, You can call me Susan.Nice to meet you.
I take architecture as my major.
Yeah. It’s pretty bad, that car looks like a coke can.
If I were her, I wouldn't marry a man I don't really love.
I got to meet the night Anger today too. We got along right from the start.
An excellent idea. Work now and play later.
Professional suits may be the best choice.
Great. Are you a qualified teacher?
Oh. I see. Thanks.
Not me. I'm too hot and I'm too tired.
Actually I will! I am working out with a personal trainer that gets on my case if I don't go. I like it, because it makes me feel more obligated to go and get healthy.
But many roads are very narrow.
I want to get in touch with the Chinese Embassy, because my passport was in the stolen bag!
Wow, that's sheer robbery.Shall I make an offer?
No. We still enjoy 10 - day of paid vacation per year.
Mom, you always think of me as a child.
You need a holiday.That ' s what's the matter.
That's cool. I can use the computer and the internet pretty well, but I'm a little bit slow in the latest trends of digital products.
Right, so you didn ’ t get lost?
I'm sure something is on sale. Please check with the produce person.
Thank you. I ’ Ve really enjoyed my time here. I've grown both personally and professionally with this company.
Great. I have long been looking forward to there.
I'm okay. What are you doing these days?
I think that you are right. Maybe they can give us a free dessert or something.
Help! I'm about to drop these books.
I'm Lui, I'd like to Speak to Mr. Smiths.
The ball is in your court, Mrs.Wang. What price would you suggest?
Is there any difference between Cantonese food and Sichuan food?
Well It’s 100 RIB for the SIM card then it will cost you about 10 RIB per minute to call the UK.
So Vicky, how long have you held your present position?
What's wrong with you, young man?
She'll be very happy with this. And how do you plan to pay for it?
What are the advantages of buying online?
Yes, sir.May I help you?
I hope to change because my current job is not within my chosen field.Since my major was international banking, I really hope to work at a bank.
You ’ re right on the edge of the city, aren ’ t you? There can ’ t be much noise or traffic there. Is it easy to get into city centre?
Managerial staff is anyone who is in a position of authority or responsibility, or who has anyone working under them. It includes all supervisors and department heads.
Show me the one made of plastic.
That ’ s good. Thanks.
Save it, Vince. After I put my first million in the bank, I'll say you're welcome.
It's all the same to me.
What's the date today Mr.Brown? I don't have a calendar.
Does he treat everyone in your department like this?
Come on, don ’ t flatter me anymore. I took the job because I love being challenged. But I can ’ t get this turned around without the support from you people.
Wow! No wonder people are so fat. Say, Carl, looks like you could be doing a bit more exercising.
Yes, I have too much work to do at the moment.
Mmm. Nice and crunchy. And they leave a space uncovered for you to hold...
Carlo's Kitchen.
Ouch. You must be very disappointed.
Thanks again. You look nice today, too.
What time did he come in last night?
What day was your appointment on?
Have you been taken care of?
How long are you going to stay here?
I suppose we can bring him to visit our company, as well as our display room. In this way, he can know more about our company and our potential power. In my opinion, visiting the factory will help him learn our manufacturing process very much.
Does their daughters get along well with her in-laws?
They say my hair is too long, my room is too dirty and I am not good enough at school.
That ’ s still more than I wanted to spend. What if I take both dresses?
( Handing her a menu ) Your waiter will be here in a minute to take your order.
Lucy, you ’ re back. How was your first day of school?
We did. On hot days, we'd take a blanket and lay in the back of dad's old pickup to watch the movie.
Oh, so you took an art class?
I appreciate your understanding.
I'd like to have Chinese food.
Of course, I like it very much. Thank you.
Yeah. You can say that again. It’s noisy too.
To be on the safe side, and for garment of all materials, sizes, and styles, I think the amount will be 50,000 pieces a year.
I think I may rent out this apartment that I found.
He was 20 years old then.
No, that'll do it for now.
Is there one in particular that you like?
I don't know. Will you forgive me?
Here ’ s my card, just give me a call if you ’ re interested.
That's exactly what I was thinking had happened.
It's all right. Pls charge it to my credit card.
They were all sitting in the living room watching TV.They had no idea a tornado was coming toward their house.If it had hit them, they could have all been killed.
Do you usually have a birthday party?
That's very considerate of you. And now, shall we discuss the insurance terms?
Not too near but not too far either. A taxi will take you there in fifteen minutes. the traffic is not too bad, I mean.
Sure, please give me $ 10 in advance. l Wil have them bought for you.
We have binders with local job listings or you can make use of the computers. OK?
I am on my way to the doctor now, but I should be back in about 45 minutes. Can I come back at around 3:15?
Welcome! Sophia told us you were coming!
the Notebook is this type of movie.
The whole-wheat loaf is 45 cents, the white loaves are 35 cents each, the baguette is 27 cents and the rolls are eight cents each. That makes two dollars fifty-seven cents.
Please wait a moment while I check availability. Ah, I'm sorry, sir. We only have a double room available now.
What colors do you have in foundation?
Do you feel like going to see a movie tonight?
Boy, this surely doesn't help us much. It could be anybody. How about his cloth? What was he wearing.
Yeah. This is supply. What can I do for you?
Those are great. How much were they?
I want something sweet after dinner.
Hi, this is Emily Wang, I want to see a doctor today.
Oh, I'm afraid it's too expensive. Can you show me something cheaper?
hi. It was awful. I think I put forward some great ideas, but none of them were accepted.
Wow! So many people! Where are they and what are they doing?
Yes, when you attend the interview, you should pay attention to your manner, style of conversation and expression. You should keep smiling always, being polite when you talk with the interviewer. Don't move from time to time when you sit there. And you also should know how to use eye contact.
That ’ s no good.
Whom would you like to talk to?
There we go.
How much more?
yeah, the hustle and bustle is really difficult to handle.
The Blacks got divorced.
Not really, I ’ m in a meeting. Can I call you back in... say... 15 minutes?
Bob, can I talk to you for a minute? There have been some developments for the Stewart case that I really need to talk to you about.
Yes. Can I?
Sure. We just got some. They're upto-date.
Swimming. What about you?
Take your mind off it. Look, Crys.This magazine is on China's top ten beauties!
Oh, sure I will need to clean off my own eye shadow first.
Well, it's making a strange noise when we try to change paper trays.
Hi, Brad. How are you today?
Really? I have seen that our wedding, but just mary's.
Good. Now that the price is decided on, we can discuss the packaging.
I ’ m shocked he actually won.
I need a Deposit Certificate to handle some stuff in land.
I only buy them if they look particularly interesting. I don ’ t buy any regularly.
Can I have another try?
She has keen to buy something which is much cheaper.
I have heard its name is connected with someone, is that right?
I've already suffered enough without listening anymore to you!
Good morning, is this Ryan?
Our cousin Pete! My turn! She has a pointy nose, sunken eyes and a mole on her chin!
Yes, it sure is. The L / C number is JD185649000023.
Well, You'd better get some more warm clothes.
Oh this is hard! Well, I ’ ll see what I can do.
Have you ever been to Japan?
I'm sorry we can't handle the price you offered.
Don't feel that way. I know you are very smart.Note - taking is a special skill. All students need to learn it.Some people are very smart, but they just haven't learned how to take notes yet. I'm lucky because I had a good English teacher in high school.She taught me how to take good notes. It's not hard.
Will you get any kind of scholarship?
You don ’ t need to lose weight, you are not fat.
Call me John. This is a great area of the city for shopping. There ’ s a grocery store just around the corner.
Wow! There are so many different people here. I expected mostly athletes and rappers.
Would you like to say ' when ', please, sir. ( Pouring soda )
What is this eviction notice for?
Well. please accept our sincere apologies, I'll be glad to change it for another one if you wish.
Certainly, sir. There ’ s a flight at 8: 35 a. m. and one at 10.
Excuse me! I don't have time to waste. I've been here almost one full hour!
Me, too. I overheard someone say Taylor has a brain tumor.
When did you change your mind?
Yes, I know and I like it very much. I will take it.
Yes. He's waiting for you in his office. This way, please.
Have you treated any real emergencies?
If I were a manager, I would have a private talk with this employ to figure out the reasons. It is very important to have this one-to-one discussion in an unthreatening situation without any distraction.
Why are there so many people?
We ’ re just going door to door.
Do you know where he comes from?
Cindy ’ s husband is Ron.
How long have you been the owner of your computer shop?
You can be assured of it.
Yeah, because he just killed a man in cold blood.
Oh, great. That's just my luck! I hate those arty movies.
You went out on a date last night, didn't you?
Yes, with a fine toothed comb, as usual. Everything seems fine, except for one thing. The description of the items we are purchasing is a little different from what we expected.
I'm not sure yet. Is there something you want to see?
Tell me about it.
In the United States, yes. But back in China, I went to concerts a couple of times with my parents.
He's in the hospital resting. The doctor's didn't give a clear answer yet.
Then I doubt if you like operas at all.
I would also like to check out these books.
It is beautiful! Look, there are so many birds around it.
I'm afraid that I don't have a credit history. I just came to this country.
five hundred dollars, so you ’ ll pay ten dollars for the insurance. That ’ s two percent of the total value of the article.
Yes, I do. I have worked as a salesman for P & G Company Ltd.
I know. I still haven't heard from her. The good thing is that I'm so angry with her that I don't feel sad about not having her around.
But, dad, it's stormy outside.
Of course we will need proof, originals and duplicate of everything. As soon as you bring in the proof and we assess it, it should be very quick indeed.
You're lucky!
Well, to begin with, we ’ re going to have to get a new desk for you and I ’ d like to replace that old typewriter.
If I'm not back in ten minutes, come and find me.
Not a problem, sir. Please remember us in the future.
He is all right. But I think he seems to have no back bone.
you said it. You know, the divorce rate has been on the rise in recent years.
That is good. And here I give you a piece of advice. You should have used stronger cardboard boxes for such a heavy item. Besides, it's better to secure the cartons with metal straps. What's more, the order number wasn't anywhere on some of the boxes.
That is good to hear!
I have been employed as a secretary at a trading company.
I'm with you. What do you have in mind?
How about one little hint?
My mother is an English teacher in a college, so I began learning English when I could speak, and I took English as my minor subject at university.
Going to the cafeteria?
Ok. Let's call it a deal.
I am sorry, sir. I have to give you a ticket. You can appeal to the court within 14 days. You will avoid paying the fine if you can prove that you are not at fault.
Great! I love swimming. Besides, I need a tan for Hill ’ s party..
Can I have your key and room number, PLS?
Well. I'll be honest and say you'll never be as good at bargaining as a local person. You're a foreigner and the sellers can see that. But... if you're smart, you can get bargains that are not too far away from the local price.
You are seemingly upset. What's behind you?
I'd like to rent a safety deposit box here, please.
Good. I hope we can arrange the contract as soon as possible.
That's a long way to go, I'm afraid. First of all, you gotta grow up.
The name ’ s Stanley Morris and the order was for two chef ’ s salads.
Eh, well, madam, as you know we are closing.
Great! Is a trainer available?
Yes, this is Holiday Inn reservation.
What's your ideal boss?
You can keep these books for only half a month.
I ’ Ve noticed that it is worse when I am under stress, like during finals week.
That will be good. You are going to want your stove and refrigerator right away.
Fine! I don't know why they make these things so delicate anyways.
you must be joking. You can't fall in love with someone you've never met!
And sorry. I can't find the price. How much is it?
Yeah, yeah, I know, it's totally cliche, but really, I think it's been a good decision. I've got a lot of support and good suggestions from the guys. What about you? What have you been up to?
Oh, no. I think it's better to be a natural chinese, with natural chinese hair.Have you got good brand of hair dye?
I learned my lesson from the last experience. I didn't arrive early enough. So I ended up with a terrible seat, All the way up in the front row. It was one of my worst movie experiences ever.
My husband takes him in the car. He passes the school on the way to the office.
You are welcome. Please press that button if you need any help.
No, just a super-boy.
Oh, don ’ t worry, I will!
He sounds more like an artist than a businessman.
Yes. I ’ m going to travel around Europe.
wow! No wonder people are so fat. Say, Carl, looks like you could be doing a bit more exercising.
I am so glad we met one another.
I fixed many kinds of machine tools such as milling machines, grinders, welders, etc. I also repaired other things such as vacuums, toilets, locks, etc. I also did some electrical work. I took some courses about electrical systems.
And what is more, in traditional Chinese thinking, cranes and pine trees symbolize longevity.
Pleased to see you.too.
I'll bring one next time.
I just got off the subway. I'm almost there. Sorry I'm late.
Nice to see you too, Mr. Brown. Won ’ t you sit down?
Sure, just a second. Who's calling?
No, you can't, darling. The grass is wet.
Oh, I can't. I have a date!
I would like to find this book.
How can I help you, sir?
No, there aren ’ t. this map just show the geographical features. Look at the Himalayan plateau with the highest peaks in the world.
We're meeting with their finance director today and then with the other directors tomorrow, just to sort out some final details.
That's all right. You can contact me later if you have other questions after you read the tender notice.
Just a few Christmas gifts, ’ tis the season, after all!
Yeah. Isn't she hot?
Your tent and enough food and water.
Yes. This is Janet Smith. I ’ d like to make an appointment with Dr. Mustn as soon as possible.
I think I would remember if I made a purchase that large.
I'm afraid not. They were both wearing stockings over their faces.
Well, I haven't been to the theater in a long time.
What are you going to take?
Wonderful. It is a home for foreign students.
The results are too slow. On top of that, just the thought of smoking needles poking into my flesh frightens me.
But they aren't very fashionable. What about these?
Welcome to ABC Company. We have been expecting you, please have a seat. I will call him.
Tell me what they taste like.
About 7 thirty.
Yes, just a simple apartment, nothing too big.
That's not the gadgets. Creating programmes is stimulate thoughts. It engages their imagination and sharpen their mind.
Doctor, here's my report for my IVP examination.
Mike, I don't think that it's a good idea to go out again. I really need to focus on getting packed and ready to move back home.
What's your parents ' opinion?
We open at 6:30, sir.
I want to put my knowledge and experience to use in a challenging position. In order to achieve this goal, I just want to work step by step.
Do you need a ticket?
We have this new model in red, white, black, or silver.These are the standard colors.Of course you could specially order from various other colors too.
ok. This Sony model is their newest and our most popular camcorder. Why don't you see if you like the way it feel?
I taught English in a primary school in Beijing.
I get home pretty late, around midnight.
Great. I'll be in later today. Thanks for calling. Bye.
Our company just concluded a business transaction. You can help with documenting varies financial sheets involved in this transaction.
It's really too early to tell, but a lot is riding on the new products. If we don't do better after the product launch, we may have to go bankrupt.
2781703 1. Sure. I'll make sure he gets the message.
Don't you like fish then?
Yes, I have known of it.
You told Martha that I was on a date? What was that all about?
Good morning. I have a Bill of Exchange against Bank Acceptance here. I'd like to discount it. Is that possible here?
Should we go see it?
"No, dim sum is usually eaten around lunch time, or sometimes closer to breakfast.We ' ll try more Taiwanese style up at the "" new "" Chinatown."
Your resume says you have had one years experience working in a foreign representative office in Shanghai, may I ask why you quit?
Besides novels, any other types literary works that you indulgence.
Oh, it's really beautiful, but I just can't do it well.
Yeah. give me a chocolate bar also.
He didn't make any effort. His aunt died and left him a fortune.
OK. I will take it as well. How much in all?
No problem. Put your baggage on the scale, please.
I can tell you what bus to catch, but you have to walk a little bit.
Fine. It will be at my house. Do you know how to get there?
I ’ m afraid I'll be tied up at 3 o ’ clock this afternoon. Could you make it 5 o'clock this afternoon?
Oh yes and try lots of new food too.
I swear, I ’ m going to kill you for this.
Don't forget to call us if you're in Tokyo.
It's not just that the price is high, it's that the overhead to update an entire computer system to be compatible is costly.
Well, under normal conditions each head lasts about 5 000 copies or so. It depends on the user, but about once a month is average.
Sounds good. What are the gifts attaching?
I will. Thank you, dad.
My hair looks awful.
I think that the apple crisp would be wonderful.
Hey, Lily, what are you doing?
So, what about the chicken?
Mr. White, too.
The completion date will be July 1st 2007.
Is that so? I'm afraid it is too narrow-minded to judge people using astrology. It's all stereotypes!
Oh, I see. I'll have beer, please.
Do you like working in teams with people from different departments?
You know, with a little elbow grease and paint, you could spruce it up a bit.
I ’ m excited to speak to a candidate.
To this place, please.
I'd like to speak to the Ms. Collins, please.
Okay. I will try it. I suppose it isn't reasonable for me to refuse to go in.After all, gay people aren't afraid to go into normal bars.
Excuse me. When is breakfast time?
When I tried to back it, I found it was out of order. I can't see where the trouble is.
If I were you, I would not put crime in their doing these thing. We should encourage our children to do what they like, so long as they are not far off track.
I don't find this fair.
Shall we visit the Summer Palace tomorrow?
Can I ask a favor of you?
B. S-H-I-R-L-E-Y.
No, It’s a dark brown suit.
Can you fax a copy of the tour itinerary to me?
I am also thinking about the pay.
What's her last name?
Well I guess you have fewer characters but I think Chinese grammar is easier.
she's on the M40, near Reading.
What're you going to do?
I hope nothing is wrong.
I ’ m not sure that ’ s a good idea.
Oh dear! Where should I go from here?
Stop it. Teacher doesn't treat me any different than she does everyone else.
I ’ m looking forward to seeing Westminster abbey, where many historical figures are buried, like Isaac Newton, the great mathematician and Winston Churchill, the great wartime leader.
Party of two?
For business or pleasure?
Tell me your argument.
Mom, my nose is bleeding.
Well, cool. What's the price for this trip?
Is it true that rice is the staple food in most of Southeast Asia?
This is the last thing you need to do, but it may take a while for the papers to be processed.
The rate was 1 Australia dollar to 6.5 Yuan yesterday.
I'm sure and I remembered your phone number. I'll call you.
I prefer time deposit.
It seems a glorious day today.
Yes, they do. It's great for them to tie the knot and get married.
Thanks. They look delicious.
may I make a suggestion?
It's so pleasant after the bad weather we've been having.
Yes, I'd like to see the receipt. Oh! I see you bought the watch last week.
And now we have a two-year-old boy. We ’ re very happy that he ’ s healthy and smart.
What can I do for you, Ma'am?
Ms. : That's right.
I've got this important letter to send to Hainan. Can I send it by registered mail?
Don't waste your money. Windsurfing is very hard. And it will be windy today.They will charge you fifty dollars for a half-hour, and you won't be able to windsurf.You will fall and fall and fall.
I don't understand what you mean.
Yes, I remember it was inspired by a New York Times best-seller of the same name.
I get an idea of the pressure in your arteries when your heart is pumping blood versus at rest.
Have you ever listened to AM radio? It's quite a different experience than the traditional news stations on TV and FM radio.
I believe it. Well, I ’ Ve got to go back in.
He is, but I didn't mean that. His daughter bought him a tie as a Father's Day gift, and he was very happy to wear it and show it off to us in the office.
Do we need an appointment beforehand?
Excuse me, I'd like to ask you a few questions about the city.
this movie are truly remarkable.
That ’ s an exception. But I am fed up with those who keep a straight face in front of me.
Describe a time when you acted on someone's suggestion.
The local newspaper has ads for housing.
Here you are. You must return them within a month.
Why? You ’ re not satisfied anymore?
Yes. Five one-dollar stamps, please.
Yes, there is a lake in the park. It is very beautiful.
Hopefully, that will keep everyone happy.
You should open an account at the online bank first. After that, you can buy anything online.
Hello! Is this Mr. Chang?
You should feel shameful for your behavior.
Sounds like it must be just full of caffeine. I want one of those instead!
If your plugs aren't connected all the way, the computer won't turn on.
How long have your headaches been going on?
Don't you think it ' s a sheer waste of both time and money?
Chill! I'm just curling my eyelashes.
That ’ s okay, Martin. If you could just bring it in tomorrow, I ’ d appreciate it.
It was written by Howard Sounds.
I spent a year to get my license.
That ’ s not high enough.
People say that you never have a real winter in the South China, but I don't think so.
That's very good advice!
7:30. By tho way, I would like a table next to the window.
No problem, Miss.
That the game was lowkey awesome.
Did you break up amicably? Sometimes couples row a lot before splitting up.
Return the money to Jim and make an apology. I think he will forgive you.
Yes, sir. I acted as a secretary in an insurance company.
Yes, this is. What number are you calling?
Well... er... it is just... just that I...
Would you like to go to the bookshop with me?
Don't worry about it, Lin.That ' s no big deal.You know, Americans appreciate China's rich culinary culture. Just excuse me for a second while I check the number here and figure out how much to give the waiter.Hmm, by the way, what do you do about tipping in China?
you're right. If she walked into meetings with our clients like that, it would make our company look bad, wouldn't it?
Yeah, time is money. We really need to make good use of it.
It's cooked with lemon and savored with rice.
I don't know.
And you will do some traveling while you are here?
Can you help me? This fitting has come loose and I need something to tighten it up.
That's a bit more than I was prepared to pay.
Hi charles, I want you know that I finally found an apartment in Haitian.
Oh, that sounds great!
Please deliver them to my office.
Oh, my god. If this flight is late. I will for Sydney.What can I do now?
Let's check out the fruit section first.
Goodbye, and have a nice day.
Could you tell me something about the Mid-Autumn Festival? I find it also very interesting.
Thank you, have a nice day.
What types of medications would be best?
Hello? Yes, someone has passed out at Dongle Ave. and 2nd street. He isn't breathing and doesn't have a pulse. Yes, my friend is performing CPR. Ok, thank you. They are sending an ambulance. Here, let me help.
I know he will help change America.
I don't like it at all.
We have made the decision to hire you.
You have no idea how proud I am of myself.
I'm sorry I couldn't help you.
Yes, you can, but you will have to pay a penalty of $ 75 for any change or cancellation.
That sounds good. At the moment I spend ages queuing at the post office to pay my bills.
Look behind us at the mountains! They're reflecting pink!
That was before he heard Stanley sing! I guess he couldn't stand it anymore, so he decided to give it a try himself! Allen has a really good voice! He sounds like Enrique Iglesias!
Yes, that's for sure. There is nothing wrong with the quality. I think you'd better pack them first in plastic bags, than in cartons.
Wait! Don ’ t turn it on...
How nice! I can see you are busying packing. I'm sorry to interrupt you.
At the Hilton hotel.
OK, thanks for checking. Could you give me a ring when it arrives, please?
I'm going to gamble on the world cup tonight. Who do you think will win?
Could you show me some scarves?
Well, I am afraid I don't bring my passport with me today. Can you save it for us until tomorrow?
They are $ 168.
Yeah. It’s a lot better than mine.
Hello, so how are we feeling today?
No, I have not.
I'd like to mail this letter to Taipei.
I'm sorry, but she won't have any openings until 11:00, unless there's a cancellation.
Nigel, you sure lead a dog's life, what's up with that?
No, I ’ m on a vacation to see the famous Three Gorges.
you should also put yours on. you never know what will happen with me in the driver ’ s seat!
No, I can manage it myself.Just sit down, please.
I really wish I hadn ’ t done it.
You should pay close attention to your manner of speaking. Speech is a reflection of personality, you know. You should reflect confidence by speaking in a low voice, loud enough to be heard without being aggressive or overpowering.
yeah, you should first decide what kind of career you really want, plan your career path, and then try your best to achieve your goal.
I know. I've even worked up a sweat.
Welcome, young man. No offence, but I haven't seen you here before.
In whose name was the reservation made?
An all-day pass is 30 dollars for adults and 20 for children.
Then how much is that by airmail?
Oh, here comes a bus!
Wow! What a hit!
Sounds exciting. I can't wait.
That ’ s fine. I'll have a try.
It depends on the type of the house you're looking for.
Those guys thought they would never lose. But we finally beat them. And look at them crying now.
It looks like it, he ’ s getting up.
How will you get your pay?
Of course, Jim. Have I met Tom before?
oh, sorry! There's a long story even with a mere pair of sticks.
OK.Do you think I can play football tomorrow?
No problem. Let me have one.
what are you watching on the telly?
Do you think this blouse really suits me?
Oh, that's easy. I will write you a list of their names. You can make a seating plan with the names and give each one a number.
May i help you?
No. I'm afraid the price is too low.
Oh!! My car isn't working. I'm waiting for a tow-truck.
I recommend you this route. We call it golden routes for the sightseeing spots.
I see. How about this one? It's very fashionable and popular among teenagers.
No, I never do that.
Show me some of the latest fashion, please.
Excuse me, where is the nearest bank?
Then I'll see you at six. Is that all right?
He said that I put all other girls in the shade.
Of course not. I believe he ’ s innocent.
You're kidding!
I sometimes run late in the morning, and can't make breakfast.
I can't help shopping there.
My diet consists mainly of fruits, veggies, and chicken.
I'm afraid I haven't got a larger dress. This is the largest dress in the shop.
I ’ m afraid we ’ re in for a rough weekend, Marry. There is a storm system moving through the East Coast. It will be drizzling all day today, and there ’ s a 60 percent chance of thunderstorms this evening. It will be warm and humid all weekend. In the Midwest, expect strong winds and a low of around 40 degrees.
That's my favorite.
All right, thank you!
I'll do my best.
Maybe you would change your mind after having a vegetarian diet.
That's too bad, but the porterhouse will be okay.
Do you need a spot here or off campus?
This model is very popular with ladies.
But I'm quite careful when I'm browsing theinternet, I have no idea how I could have picked up a virus.
Sure, that would be great. I'll bring the wine.
I had some bread for breakfast.
What did you do to get his goat?
Hi, excuse me, Sir? I ’ m looking for a dress shoe. My usual pair that I ’ Ve had for years have finally been stretched out of shape. They don ’ t provide any support anymore.
thanks. Would you mind taking a look at the layout? Do you think It’s appropriate? I want it to be formal, but not boring to look at.
I completely agree.
I think you should put an advertisement in china daily. Things where you lasted.
Are you looking for an apartment?
Nice to meet you guys.
Well, at least half a year. Do I have to do my own grocery shopping?
Well, I am just afraid they won't like my Chinese way of cooking.
Can you tell me when my lease is up?
Yes, I am. That's why I make plans before I do anything.
I am looking for a job that is more advanced than that, such as sales manager or regional manager.
Hi, Madam, I'm new here, could you tell me where is boarding gate?
If you don't mind me asking, how much do they cost?
That means the apartment has furniture in it.
That's too expensive for me.
Yes, of course. I love the picnic party. It’s really family fun time.
We can do it. See you then.
My travel agent always reminds me to plan a day of relaxing for every 3 days of sightseeing. Did you go to the Louvre?
They are. And not only that the people are friendly, but also the food is delicious, not to mention cheap.
Will you need a wake up call, sir?
The government is going to organize a folk-custom activity at the end of the month. And our community is supposed to put on a performance.
Hmm... that ’ s a bit out of my price range. Can you give me a better deal?
Yeah, I have a little one myself. Anyway, these water pipes are really rusty, so they also should be changed. Thatcould be causing water to not drain completely, that might lead to more problems in the future. I would also suggest fixing this faucet that isn ’ t shutting off properly. I could have it all finished by today if It’s urgent.
I'm sorry, we can't handle the price you offered.
I'm moblogging!
Would you please drive me to chinatown?
Yes, even her mother.
The apples were great. Could you bring a couple more up?
Well, little girls seem to love Barbie dolls.
Sometimes you can post an advertisement saying that you need a roommate.
I kind of feel the same way, but they may have just been really short-staffed tonight.
I live in an apartment downtown.
Can you make out what he's saying?
Don ’ t your relatives visit other relatives?
Is this something that you could schedule for another time?
Oh, I'm visiting a friend there.
What about this dry red? It's good indeed, it never goes to the head.
You are something else you know that?
There's one at 7:10 p. m. and the next one is at 7:40 p. m.
Yeah, but come on, Geoff, as if you don ’ t check Facebook at work. Look, you hired this guy, we ’ Ve invested a lot of time and money in his training, so now It’s up to you to coach him. Make it work, Geoff!
I'm looking for some lipsticks. Do you still have some in peach rose?
You and Bob have finished?
You're welcome. Enjoy your meal. Press the call button if you need any more help.
perhaps. He probably thinks you considered the gift a bribe for a higher grade.
What are you calling about today?
May I ask why you're returning the radio?
That's because you don't exercise. If you were more active, you wouldn't have a dieting problem.
When can you start the job?
I need your information too.
One US Dollars in cash is equivalent t0 7.9 Yuan.
Great! When do you take over?
I trust your judgement. Thank you, Quinn. I'll be back tomorrow with a new set. Bye for now.
Your typing and stenography are pretty good. Would you be interested in applying for the job?
He tried to leave with the money.
So, I don't have to pay the ticket?
How do you dispose of the waste in your factory?
Come on, let ’ s try it.
Yes, show me your ticket and passport please.
15 copies for each diploma.
That will do. Where shall I go to pay the money?
I just need to see your drivers license or utility bill to prove that you a resident of this state.
sure have. I want to offer my parents a better life ; so, I'll have to work very hard.
Did he tell you what she was like first?
What about the packaging?
I hear you have to wear uniforms at private school.
Didn't you laugh through the whole movie? I did.
No, any change. I want you to keep me as informed as you are. I need to know as much as you do. If you hear about something that might happen, then tell me about it.Tell me it's rumor, what it's based on and your opinion on how likely it is.
That's a crying shame. It really is!
Tell me about it. I'm interested.
I honestly have no idea.
There ’ s a lot of rain in summer. But it seldom rains in autumn
But you're also going to have to give some attention to trade restrictions. You can get much information about environment of investment.
I'd like to open a new account.
How are you feeling, John?
Why can't you?
That's too bad. But there are several alternatives, if you want to hear them.
You owe $ 36.78.
Well, he sure was lucky.
Let's go over this plan again.
I don ’ t want to see you back here.
OK, Mr. Smith. When will you arrive?
Luckily we got the last two.
That's good. What's the fee?
Thats a clever way to escape responsibility.
What do you think is the chief characteristic for a stewardess?
All right, then. I ’ ll see you at noon on Wednesday.
It’s approximately 3.14, but the number continues forever. What ’ s the diameter of your circle?
What's wrong with Sons?
Hi, Jack, how have you been?
No problem. Do you want the money to go by M / T or T / T?
Well, I don ’ t mean to boast but all the designs are done by myself and some colleagues are already trying to copy some of them for their new apartments. Look, they are making photos now of my designed kitchen.
Do you like coffee?
So did I. that's why I didn't take my umbrella. I got cold in the rain in the afternoon. It was raining cats and dogs.
We can borrow as much as we can.
Hello Mary. I haven ’ t seen you for ages. Are you still seeing Paul?
Let me see. I think it's OK.
You were lucky to find it.
Coing out for a walk.
Sure. Doing your homework and preparing for an interview really pays off.
Well, I think that we are going to have to get you to an emergency room right away.
You know that I am.
Do you think I can find a sweater for my dog online?
You'll have 10 days paid vacation every year.
He was once a poor man but now he is a man of means.
The fee is $ 25 every time you overdraft.
Excuse me. What should be included in my CV?
I need to make an appointment with you today.
Call us as soon as you got home.
Hi! Dick. Where are you going? You're in such a hurry.
You ’ re welcome. Would you like some cold dishes?
Since you're Chinese, maybe you can find part-time work in Chinatown.
See you. Bye.
Yes, but don't cut them yet. Wait until they cool. Where is the big plastic bowl?
OK, I will get right to that.
Yes, I did. It was one of the conditions of the insurance policy. The insurance company need to assess the risk.
How sweet! Maybe he was just a shy guy who had a crush on you!
I have no problem singing like a canary.
I am going to attend an interview.
Yes, where do you want to go?
Thank you. Come back to my office at the same time tomorrow. I'll have the pictures ready by then.
I love history, but I ’ Ve always thought that learning the reasons behind events is more important than remembering exactly when they happened.
All right. Which room shall I have?
Don ’ t you know that she was the only one who had received the invitation in the office?
You need to get a car tag first. There's a one hundred Yuan deposit for the car tag.
Welcome to my birthday party, I am so happy you can come.
Well, you have to take the bad with the good.
It seems a little too wild.
people in show biz can have such an easy life ; I don't know why they have to make it so complicated.
Sure, I can take you there actually.
well, sometimes I get scared when I'm in my apartment all by myself.
I guess you're right. And we'd like to have company anyway.
Does she wear glasses?
I am afraid I can't I am going to be out all day.
I want to send some money to Australia. Could you handle it for me?
I have my passport with me, a driver ’ s license and a membership card. Will they do?
Yes. Sometimes the fault is very small ; if you have a needle and thread, you can fix it yourself. So it's a good deal to buy it.
Well, rest assured that you can count on us to be here for the long run, sitdown.Coffee?
I've got all the presents I need, and my family is working together to get all the food ready. That's easy, but I have another problem to deal with.
Then we will come here for lunch tomorrow.
Yes, sir. May I have your laundry ticket please?
Ten gallons of premium. That's $ 18.56, please.
Oh, yeah? It's better if we make a police report first. Then you can go to the hospital.
I'm so tired. Let me sleep for five more minutes.
That's the one.
Hello, Anna speaking!
Is there anywhere I can reach him?
Who knows! It's a long game. Look! That was a really nice shot!
Did you eat any ice cream?
I can ask around at work. Do you have a preference for makers or non-smokers?
Just give these receipts to the lady at the door to immigration. Don't worry, she'll ask for them from you.
It might not be the most efficient, but if you think about it, it makes pretty good sense. The stockholders are our investors. They own the capital in our company, so they should have say about what is done with the company.
Yes, but this will be my first time voting.
Let me see. Laptop, flash disk, a ballpoint pen, a pencil, a notebook, a pair of glasses, cell phone, charger, moisture, notion,... Oh, that is too much. You are not going to a business trip.
Really. For me too.
Awesome. I've been giving this a lot of thought. When can we do this?
Not only can it appease one's thirst, but it can also refresh one when tired.
OK. I will be right back with your desserts and drinks.
I think it will be.
Perhaps they should give it a second thought. The residents are getting up in arms about it.
Absolutely. She's a teacher of aerobics.
And your passport please.
When do you need them, sir?
On and off, for quite a few years.
Excuse me. I am interested in getting a library card.
I haven't got much.
Yes, ma'am. Here we are.
All right, I ’ ll leave her the message, Mary. Thanks for calling.
Signing the registry is a good idea. I think I want to see the kitchen next.
I'm sure they are wonderful, but I need an unfurnished apartment with relatively lower cost.
that's right. I thought I'd come back to buy some more souvenirs.
I appreciate it, thank you.
Form your company's advertisement in the TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY, I learn that you are a foreign trade company of good service. I am interested in it.Here is my resume, ma'am.
There's a lot that you need to do this morning.
It's a new concert hall and the acoustics are great.
Yes, It's pleasantly quiet here.
Yes. I received everything in the post this morning.
Hurry up! Mom, I can't wait any more.
One week after I have submitted my resignation paper.
Let me check that for you right now.
I'm sorry to trouble you but there is a lot of noise in next room.
Thank you. I'm sure I will have a wonderful time here.
Are you new to this school?
All right. What should I take?
great. Sweet wines are my favorite. They always make a great finish to a decisions meal.
why didn't you tell me about that before?
Of course, Please hold the line Mr. Hunter.
Oh, just looking at these club notices. I'm thinking of joining one. Hey-why don't we join a club together? How about the Tennis Club?
No, your daughter is great.
How much is a battery?
That's how you want it?
No, I wasn't. It's kind of hard to watch the road when Joseph is behind the wheel.
Yes, we have one copy left.
I've got whiskey and brandy but I need some beer and soda.That ' s all.
Hmm. Good exercise, uh?
Come on, Liz. Be open-minded! Look at my eyes, they are puffy. And my eye bags, they are dark and loose and full of lines and circles. I really hope surgery can wipe out the tired feelings.
sounds like this weekend just isn't going to work out for us.
That is a bank. The coffee shop is opposite the bank.
You refused the gift? That's terrible.
I want to return this cellphone.
I'll try to speak more clearly.
So you will come, won't you?
I was just kidding.
All right. What do you want me to get?
At 10:30.
Would you mail a letter for me? My hands are full.
That would be my pleasure. I'll wrap the perfume up in the gift box for you too.
So, did you go to college right away?
Take my word for it.
You are in the right place. Roll up your left sleeve and have a seat.
Which do you prefer, meat or fish?
OK. I'm sure you will love what this new automatic answering system can do for your business.
Jenny, Can you come and help me?
You mean the one with the yellow bricks? But last time I saw it, it wasn ’ t really in business yet. I saw some people inside furnishing the rooms. Is it open now?
I hope so. We have planed to visit the square but we have to cancel it.
Have you just been to the cinema?
My pleasure Miss. Actually, could you recommend what to eat here? I've never been here before.
I'm so sorry. We ran out of filet mignon. May I suggest the porterhouse instead?
Oh, you mean ' KIKES '?
Then the axiom - ' You can't teach an old dog new tricks ' doesn't work any longer.
Please get a mug shot in the next room.
The C building, I think.
Yes, I do. Those are violets, aren ’ t they?
Quite well.thank you.And what about you?
Thanks. Now can I make the full deposit?
there's actually a documentary on the history channel later on that I'd like to watch. Do you want to stay and watch it with me?
Fine. How much is the charge per night?
I'd like to have some meat.
Not long, because people rush for lunch.
It sounds very complicated. How far is it from here?
What ’ s the difference?
He always makes fun of me. He always says things like that. You know the new coming teacher, a Chinese Canadian. He said she would really be my chance.
We really believe that you are a highly qualified person. But the other candidate has several years of related experiences.
Tell me about a time when you had a confrontation with a coworker or boss.
You want to go get a facial with me today?
We want you to get any outside help that you need. Do not ever sign documents that you don ’ t understand.
And my wife would be happy if I bought her a mink coat.
She's speaking French, not Greek.
Yes. Let ’ s say Tuesday at noon. Bring your portfolio with you.
I just have to come up for air. I ’ Ve been here for too long a time.
It gives me a lot of pressure and I feel depressed.
I'm really sorry. But I understand.
Yeah, It’s pretty nice, but its so red because of air pollution.
I advise you to take an additional course in some Chinese schools.
I'll see you at the airport at 12:30 P. m.
And what about that man there?
OK. Let's go American. Where's the nearest McDonald's?
Yes. It's really wonderful here The grass is greener and the air is fresher than those in the city.
By the way, I want a large room.
You must go to immigration to the departure lounge.
Are you ready for a second?
Oh, that ’ s all right. It’s very kind of you. Can I come around now?
These books are two weeks late.
My wallet, with $ 200 in it, my wrist watch.some of my wife's jewellery from our bedroom, and a silver photoframe.
No problem. Your room numbers are 201 and 204.
I'm just fishing from the shore. How about you?
The owner apparently is selling this place to make way for the construction of a parking lot
A blood test and during test. You can come back next week, say 4 pm to see the results.
Thanks. What ’ s your name and phone number, please?
You mean on product availability, reliability and price?
I ’ Ve been to most of the countries in Europe, several countries in asia-china, Japan, korea, and Thailand-and to the united states and Canada.
Go get it.
OK, wait a moment please.
Great, I just hope I qualify! Could you tell me some more? Can I use the money to buy the car from anywhere?
Are you sure about that?
Yeah. You can take them home and either use them as a gift or keep them as mementoes.
The answer is zero! What a let-down!
Of course. What room are you in, sir?
Here you go.On any other day, it would cost me a fortune, but It’s on special offer today.
What's your favorite dance?
motion carried. Now, next on our agenda is our budget review. Margaret, can you please fill us in on where the budget review stands?
My name is Han Ran, number is 050920.
I also hate having to stand at a bus stop in all kinds of weather.
Post office offer lots of services nowadays, don ’ t they? Years age, you only really used the post office to send mail, save money, and send or collect money.
What's the matter with you then? You look miserable.
That's my style when I'm not in the office.
So what have you been up to?
I think if everyone pitches in, the world will be a better place.
It goes to the Gold Line?
Are you a visitor here?
On a hill to the east of the Tarsus river. You have a good view of the beautiful sunrise and sunset. You can't find a better home to live in.
Yes, but they do it differently. Everything is different.
It's Sunday today.
I'm okay. He just stole my things.
You don't look too well. Maybe you should take the day off from work.
The more money you made, the more you will earn on unemployment. They have a formula.
Great. See you then.
I'll enjoy working with you. Have a great day!
We finally took off, but about 30 minutes later, the captain came on to the loudspeaker to warn us that there would be some bad turbulence for most of the flight.
If the aid is available, they will give you two or more application forms, One is for admission, the others are for the aid.
Yes, if any one is available. But not over the wing.
And there's no one living over us.
Not at all. I never really did, to be honest. What about you? Did your family used to play games together?
Well, as for Albert, he should go to an office supply store.There ' s a very good one called Office Depot. They have everything he will need.And their prices are good too. It's very convey
1446 Pine.That ' s in San Francisco, isn't it?
Oh, well, I looked around. There wasn't any other space. I waited a while and nobody came. I'm sorry if I've taken your place.
In tens and twenties, please.
What if I can ’ t meet that requirement?
What's your favorite dish or dishes?
Yes, I am. I'm very interested in that advertisement about hiring a computer program designer, and hope to know a little more about it.
How about eight o'clock tomorrow morning?
Yes. We have both the paperback and the hardcover.
Because it's supposed to be good for you.
Ok, do they have a delivery service?
What's Condiments?
This question has really been bothering me. I like Chinese literature, you know. But economics is really hot now, and it has a very good career prospect.
I don't know.The person we asked had to give us directions to the highway to get back here.
Okay. I have canceled your reservation, Mr. Smith.
OK, OK, one by one, please! They look like robots, but they can speak. Their mission is to make friends with human beings.
Clive was really outstanding. Not only he put on a big show himself, but also he inspired the whole team.
It's my grandmother's favorite recipe for barbecue.
Can you eat the stone?
Excuse me, Miss.My friend is sick.
( After they enter the park ) Oh, it's so quiet here.We have the park to ourselves, only you and me!
Because it's better, easier and cheaper to get them from the food we eat.
Oh, excellent. How much does it cost?
I don't want to make a bad impression.
Waiter, show me the menu, please.
I ’ ll have to think about that, Ms. Solomon.
Sure, that sounds great. Where are your appetizers listed?
That's good! Just make sure to bathe them later.
At sight of course.
Mom! I was just picking my nose, and now it's bleeding.
There is a position I've had my eye on for several months now and I had good reason to believe that it was mine for the asking.
We got the contract!
My bad.sorry!
no, but I heard about that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt didn't attend.
oh, steve. Stop it! I am a bit nervous! What if he doesn't call?
Do you mean you want to sell up your company of your own?
If these problems are not addressed immediately, I will be contacting the health department this Friday and you will not get a rent check.
I ’ ll be paying with cash.
No, it isn't. It's 1199866. It seems that you have misdialed.
Believe me, it's worth the price.
Yes. I bought it in Johnson thrift store.
Three nights I scheduled.
Is it really completely flat?
Yep! Are you going to the rock concert Friday night?
I don't have a girlfriend. I'm single.
It's not too salty.
How much are these in all?
Say hello to your friends for me.
That's no problem. We have many different ways to go about getting a mortgage and all with terms to suit you.
Honey, I ’ ll be right back!
Excuse me, would you like to be our guide?
But of course! Well, It’s been great talking to you, but I have to get going.
fine, thanks. How are you?
Yes, that's good. Where would you like to go?
Dad, I want to learn how to drive this summer vacation.
I want a shirt.
What is the tariff?
Beneficial? I don ’ t think so. If two employees get married, they will leave at the same time for a honeymoon, or later one of them will stay at home taking care of babies. If they break up, the company will probably have to relocate one of them to make the workplace more comfortable. By any means, the company must spare extra efforts to solve problems brought by an office dating.
Me? You're the one who pulled out in front of me!
Good afternoon, Miss.
Why don ’ t you marry Rose, then?
That was quick.
She doesn't look like our classmate.
Which models do you sell the most?
He was quite right.
Fine. But no one else, OK?
We're watching a football match. What's the matter?
I don't like it. It's outdated.
Really? Did you find any information about a new job?
junk food is not good for your health. Too much of it will make you fat.
"And lots of "" Dear Abby "" sob stories..."
The breaking news just reported some houses were destroyed by the earthquake.
It was many years ago, when I was a little child. It was the middle of the night, and I went to get a drink of water from the kitchen. I walked out of my room and was at the top of the stairs, when...
Oh, no. In fact, yellow is the symbol of the royal family.
Can you believe me?
Bring those upstairs and put them in the bedroom.
Sure. May name is Aaron Johnson, and my phone number is 3242-5827.
Well, how many tax-free things can I bring with me?
I don't think we come here at a right time.
I ’ m afraid so. Sometimes I feel hot and sometimes I feel cold.
Good afternoon, what flights do you have from London to Paris?
Hey, Jane... are you familiar with our company's insurance policies?
It is so popular among people to preserve health now, so I read some books about health food.
Isn't this lovely weather? Will you help me water the flowers, Jack?
Probably we'll survive.But turn the car off for about forty-five minutes. Then we'll turn it on again.
well, first, I'd like to buy a few postcards. My sister used to always send a postcard to herself whenever she went anywhere. I want to do that, too.
OK. How does seven o'clock this evening sound?
Yeah. We should have more roads built.
I know! I never had the guts to tell you... until today. So, what do you say? Are you willing to give me a shot?
May I have your key please?
How about interviews? Have you been on any of those yet?
I'm so angry at Bob for buying a new bike.
something's got to change---and it's got to happen soon.
Yes, our company has two floors, the 6th and 7th floor in this building.
May I ask whether we are allowed to wear casual clothes in the office?
November this year.
I'll go by myself then.
Is it under warranty?
I am from Texas. I was in China once, but it was a long time ago.
That's great. We can do something outdoors then.
Oh, Never mind, I finished my paper. So you can use it tonight.
Mary's is handling it.
Mmm, well this is our I ’ m sorry I cheated on you package. Two dozen red roses lined with tulips, carnations and lilies. The fragrance and beauty of this flower arrangement is sure to make her forgive you.
It is cheap.
Looks to me like an 18-55 mm lens. pretty standard, that will do. Not like my husband will be stalking celebrities or anything!
Ok, Mum. I will not fail the examination next time.
Your dream comes true now.
I think everything has a scientific explanation rather than a theological one.
How long is your journey?
Peter, it's time to go home now! Hurry up!
Well, then, may I invite you for the next dance?
Keep the change!
How old is the house then?
Yes, Five one dollar stamps, please.
Oh, hi Lucas, come on in. I'm Barbara. Nice to meet you.
Is there any difference in their short hand?
Now that's a good idea. Thanks a lot, Brian. I'm feeling better already.
OK, I see. What's the exchange rate? Is the dollar up or down?
They're of good cotton and the color never fades.
It's made of cotton.
My computer isn't working.
Ten. How did your game go?
Where is the interview happening?
Well, as you know, I have recently become the sole distributor for Grangers Gourmet Bon-bons here in the United States. They ’ re a new manufacturer and are looking to break into the luxury market. Naturally, your restaurant sprang into my mind immediately. I think your brand exemplifies many of the same traits as Grangers and serving these chocolates would really add to your reputation for providing elegant, luxurious, first class dining.
Let me check. Now, your ticket is in order. Thank you for calling to reconfirm.
Not bad. I'm confident. And I like challenges.
great. Shall I meet you there around 7:45 tomorrow night?
How long will it last?
What about your second foreign language since you were an English major?
Then how can you explain your behavior?
I want a different hair style.
That's what I should do. And I don't want to lose it.
Very good. May I see your passport?
I hope she does. Do you think you'll ever get another pet?
I know exactly what you mean. Hearing that song gives me a nostalgic feeling.
Yes, I did it yesterday. Our meeting should be 2 pm.
How about this opera given by the famous musician?
I can handle them without any trouble
You may take it up at the ticket office. That is located on International Street 150.
No, dad. Can I go there to play ball?
No, thanks. I already drove by to see what the neighborhood looks like.
What happened yesterday? You forgot our date, didn ’ t you?
What should we do to make sure that we have the electricity and water turned on?
I want the new cards to be exactly like this card.
That's just what was running through my mind. Moonlight and dancing.
Craig, what do you do for work?
What are your favourite dances?
You will receive a Notice of Unemployment Insurance Award letter.
Have you been taken of, miss?
do you have any plans for tomorrow night?
What was your childhood like?
Honestly speaking, I think the one next to it suits you better.
What else would you like?
I always make my salads with shredded cheese, croutons, and almonds.
Wow, that's my favorite. It's like a superman shooting right up into the sky.
No, you don't have to.
Let me think. Oh, awful! I still have not finished the chart which was assigned by Mr. Wharton on Friday. So that task will make my busy.
We would like to begin with a cocktail while we are waiting. Would you tell the hostess to please come and let us know when our table is ready?
I see. What does the service involve?
I'll have to sleep on it.
Let me see. Here it is.
Yes, they generally cost a little more.
I ’ m sure... we ’ Ve got all our bases covered.
Snakes? there are even rodents and monkeys! it's a world of exotic pets.
You are a lucky man. How about Mr. Smith.
Yes, dumpling is a must.There is also other food.For example, people eat chicken for good luck.
Pretty good, thank you. And you?
That ’ s good to know.
which country do you want to go to?
I wish our competition will quit poaching our people, when Susan resigned last week to work for the Sunburst, she was our fourth employee to leave us for them.
Would you recommend some materials on the World War Two?
Please bring me a cup of coffee.
Wait. What's the time, honey?
Now what do I do?
Is there anything that is smaller than electrons and protons?
No, thanks. All I need is painting and polishing.
Not bad. I ’ m confident. And I like challenges.
No, I'm not asking for money. I'm asking for your advice.
I wish everything in life was so simple. Thank you.
Yes, that'll be all right. Well, please tell me about your working experience.
No, it's 777-9344?
There is a formula that can help us figure that out. What is your annual salary?
Peter Madsen. A great A if I do say so myself.
Can you make it on Tuesday?
Wait a moment, please. I'll tell his secretary that you are here.
I had introduced an advanced product line, which increased the output and lessened the cost.
It's the end of the world for me.
Will I be finished then?
there's a girl in my company that I really like but I always get shy when she is around.
I'm afraid we can't. $ 12.50 is our rock bottom price. If you purchase more than 10,000 units we can reduce it to $ 12.00.
really? I didn't know that it was against company policy.
A friend told me might find a room here.
What would you like to ask me?
You have to be very careful with seafood. It tastes lovely, but it often causes upset stomachs. Have you heard anything from Tom?
Well, only you liked it really, darling.
What time does it begin?
Ok, then see you in sunday morning.
It's really hard to avoid such bad influence anyway.
So many stops! Don't you have any direct flights?
Yes, It’s half price. It’s supposed to be too large--that ’ s the fashion.
I didn't think of it.Thank you.And I do apologize for being late.
Well, I want to build a deck in my back yard.
Hey, how was the show?
What time shall I pick you up?
I really don ’ t want to hear your excuses, Janet. We ’ re running a busy office here. You ’ re going to have to keep up.
I see what you mean!
What's the route?
Good afternoon, ma'am. Can I help you find anything?
Is the price negotiable?
For color prints?
He's still pretty sick.
I can ’ t stay here anymore.
I am afraid not. Tomorrow is premiere.
This is Chris Emerson speaking.
Besides the resume, you also need the original and copies of your graduation certificate and your ID card.
Your room Number is 827. The bail-boy will take your bags and show you to your room.
My father lives in Washington DC.
Only about old movies, really...
Hi. It’s Tony calling from the dentist ’ s office. Is Lily there?
What should I bring?
Twenty eight dollars.
Thank you for purchasing your new mattress with us.
No, at night.
I am innocent.
OK, since you are the smart one, can you come up with a better plan? So that we won't be baked like cookies here.
Oh, my God! I hope you are all right.
So who has to stay behind?
No. Not that. I mean a training card.The card allows you to keep track of how much weight you use on each machine.Here, let me show you.
yes, I experienced one when I was in Tokyo once. The tremors only lasted a few seconds though and then it was over.
Yes, We do have some choices for ladies like you. What about some green salad?
How about your study at college?
This is Dunlin. Is this Mrs Smith speaking?
OK. What do you want to know?
Do you have the same style in white?
I heard you were teaching English over there.Tell me about it. Did you like it?
It should be on the shelf, but I didn ’ t see it.
If were you. I'd take a taxi.
I ’ m terribly sorry, sir, but I ’ m afraid it is true. That flight has been canceled. Would you like to try to book tomorrow ’ s flight?
Is that going to take long?
Not too long. 14 working days for a visa.
I guess you should know that you need to be hospitalized.
I went to get mine from IKEA.
Well, good for you. I hope you can get what you want from the training.
Well, I know Brown's Biscuit Factory are looking for a porter.They pay $ 200 a week.
Did you watch the volleyball match last night?
Anyway, the show is breathtaking. By the way, where did they get so much snow here?
There's one at 19:00 and the next is at 19:40.
You are starting to learn English?
I like my hair so much.
And when do you prepare for your final exam?
I am equipped with much experience in teaching for more than 30 years and I also edit teaching materials by myself.
Yes, I had a bf before.
Computers are great, aren ’ t they? I should download some program and learn how to use them.
No. I don ’ t think that ’ s possible. Some places are sure to be open.
no, but my father's car was destroyed in a flood once. It actually happened the day after he bought the car!
That sounds good, thanks, I'd like that. Actually I'd like sprite instead of coke, thanks.
Oh, it has nothing to do with me.
My name is Judy Liao. That's spelled L I A O.
I hear ya. Let's do it.
Excuse me, I'd like to make a suit of this material.
Okay, let ’ s make a toast.
The post office? Sorry, I'm not sure.
Right. What present should we give him this time? By the way, how old is he?
You should change your attitude, or you will not pass the course.
Almost ready. I am making a double check.
Don't worry about that. I'll reimburse you as soon as I receive the package.
Hello, sir. Is there anything I can help you find?
And eat too much.
I want to post this package to the United States.
Look out! A small boy is rushing out blindly.
No. I borrowed it to go shopping.
O. K., O. K., I ’ ll go.
Yes. Hey, I've got some photos of our holiday in Ireland. Would you like to see them?
I ’ d like you to have a look at the safety manual of our company.
Are you certain that that is what you want to do?
I used to think that Americans had so much money they didn ’ t know what to do with it.
Well, it is different in different countries.But it's because of the high tax that buying liquor duty-free is such a good deal.
I'm going to take a nap.
Thank you for pointing that out. I mistakenly gave you your friend's breakfast.
Well, oh my God, there is another problem, I'm afraid. There is still a stain on the shirt.
Oath, I think I broke my leg.
I've been doing yoga for a long time.
No, they're not quite what I want. Sorry to trouble you.
What account do you want your money in?
What is most important to you in a job?
Just telephone us, and let us know in advance. We don't charge for cancellation.
It would help to bring in a couple more troubleshooters.
I would like some water.
Can you fix me a cup of tea, Johnny?
You are really tough. You got a deal.
What you said is absolutely right. I will pay you back as soon as I get back on my feet.
I fired Mr. Li today.
That will be six dollars. Out of ten-seven, eight, nine, ten. Thank you.
I got a 4.0 in that class.
Thank you for your compliment.
But it's absolutely our own business to have a child or not.
I hope so. too. But I still think the provision of arbitration is of great importance to both of us.
Could you introduce some whitening products for me?
I suggest that you go to the lawyers ' office to get some help.
I'd prefer to speak with Ms. Fonda.
I'm sorry, Mrs. Lin. We don't allow smoking in the office.
Really? Well you ’ ll have to get there before 6pm because they close early today.
Right, just wait a minute. I will get your bill ready for you right away.
Yes, I do show your reservation. How could you like to pay for the room?
Yes. I think they should just let them fly free, and not try to sell them to foreigners. It is a kind of destruction of nature.
Can I read it when you're finished?
I heard he's very clear about his likes and dislikes and he's not the type to just let things go, so don ’ t provoke him.
What type of people do you work with most effectively?
It's a deal, Hal. Thanks again for stopping to help. And thanks for smashing my car!
about 7:30.
I will. Thank you, Mummy.
Of course not. We don't do that.
Then the standard that you set yourself originally must have changed.
Maybe I'd better call an ambulance.
Maybe I'll go for the US dollar account.
Bob, you look pale. What happened?
ordering a lot of food at restaurants is just a tradition in China. You know, in the past, people could not afford to eat out like they can today.
well, there are certain factors that effect people's size and weight.
Well. Yes, but those people always start talking to me. I never talk to them first.Perhaps I'm not as shy as I think. Anyway, you're certainly not shy!
Can you tell me if there is a flight to New York?
Do you like a package tour or to travel alone?
Yes. It's a prototype of our new product. It has got more advantages than the second did.
Sure... but it's probably better for the workers, because the union's whole purpose is to look out for the little guys. The only way that the little guys can take on the big bosses is if they unite. Labor unions are all about getting a voice for the underdog.
I ’ m afraid that there is no room for any reduction in price.
Hello, Pineapple Computer Company. This is Janice Shaw, the secretary of Nova. May I ask who is calling?
C U here, honey.
I don't think so.There ' re so many familiar characters and they sound just like Chinese.
I will fix it for you.
Don't worry. I've got money. It's my treat.
I think that I'll be really good at this kind of work. In fact I learn so fast that I'll be looking for promotion very shortly.
It's interesting. Let me see.
Are you sure you can be a successful cashier?
It’s a pity we can ’ t afford a house. A garden would be so nice.
But I ruined your rug.
I don't think so. I say the weather report last night, and it said the weather should be fine all day.
Do you know who did?
that must have been horrible. Did you go out at all that day to see what was going on?
Can you afford that much?
This looks like a very nice house.
Is there anybody acting as mediator in the dispute?
Pretty good, Sam. Only the awful weather, you know.
How do you like your new boss?
you're right, but when it was built in 1930 it was a marvel of technology and engineering.
Here is an application. Please fill it out to the best of your ability. Did you bring a resume and references?
Not only that, but I'm going to buy you that video game after all!
What's special about it except its pleasant smell?
What's wrong? We have been working overtime recently.
I love green apples.
By the way miss, where is the toilet?
No, one thousand at least.
I've heard that people in your country like mutton chops.
Oh, okay. Well, here you go.
what's there after that?
I want to finish my degree in four years.So I don't want to forget to take classes I need. I have a friend who has to stay in college another year.She didn't know until recently. There were some classes she needed to take to graduate.She didn't know about them.
Not even for an hour?
Are you sure? How do you know?
All right, I'll have a dozen of the dollar ones.
What kind of food would you like?
Can you make a suit for me to order?
That ’ s OK. Thank you for seeing me.
That ’ s possible, but I ’ m not sure it would really happen like that.
No problem. See you this afternoon.
I haven ’ t decided yet.
Well, he made quite a few mistakes on the monthly report and when his supervisor found them, my manager blamed them on me!
Which team do you think will win?
Thanks, I appreciate your help.
I would like some light smell.
OK, it so happened I want to buy one.
"ok, it just says, ball, blah, blah... "" Ray and I look forward to seeing you in June. Write soon. With love, Sue. """
You're quite welcome. Thank you for calling. Bye-byeB
Yes, Japan is good for farming. Rice is the main crop, but Japan is also an industrial center. Fishing is very important, too. Rice isn't grown in France, is it?
Yeah, it sure would.
How much is this going to cost?
Actually, I was hoping to mix business with pleasure. Would you be interested in joining me for dinner some time this week? I thought we might try out the new Italian restaurant everyone ’ s been
What are your thoughts on the apartment?
It smells like an ashtray in here!
We could find a classical one.
OK. I've got it.
That ’ s impossible.
OK. Please fill in this form and input you code here... and again, please. I'll just check and see if the money has been transferred. Yes, transaction successful.
Ok, that would be great. Do you like modern dance? I don't care for it.
Tomato or orange juice, please.
How long until you contact the sellers with my acceptance?
I haven't taken it yet.
Do you have any brothers or sisters?
The next step is for us to recommend a dealer to you, who are already contracted to us, so...
Well they are facing the street
You did? That's great! You must be very happy now?
What happens is, when you make money, we take part of your benefits away.
I couldn't even if I wanted to. My parents told me that if I went home, then I'd have to find my own place.
No, I have no complaints. I hear there are many opportunities to move up in this company. is that true?
I'd call him and dump him now! You deserve better than him!
Neither do I. Let's stay in a cabin.It ' ll be much nicer right beside the ocean.
what ’ s it like?
Where shall I put it, miss?
I could not and can ’ t make out the reason why she would set her heart on a man like Dick. He plays the field with many girls.
Cool. Hey, I've got an idea. Why don't we cook it separately? Half for sashimi, and the other half for grill.
You ’ re questioning my ability? I tell ya, I can make it! I ’ ll talk to your boss.
Yes. Is that available now?
Uh, A... you know I'm friends with William.
Here is ten dollars.
what date is it today?
Of course. How can I help you?
What about income? Did you make any money during that period?
So cool. I wish I can go to the live New Year's Concert someday in the future.
Sue? Do you want to join the softball team? We need another player.
Let ’ s just hope my teacher agrees.
Don ’ t worry. The traffic jam is said to be over soon.
Excellent! Let ’ s set off.
Not everything, just this film. Even the title is ridiculous. and It’s so long, those are the two and a half most wasted hours of my life, so much so that I ’ m thinking about asking them to give me my money back.
Can I try later then?
I think so. We can go there in the afternoon if you like.
I advised customers on financial matters. After I consulted the customer, I completed a customer inquiry form and catalogued the information in our database. I then collaborated with colleagues to prepare the best possible package for the client. The clients were then presented with a summarized report on their financial activities that I formulated on a quarterly basis.
Yo baby, are you satisfied with the costume show in the street?
It can't be dry, and can't die.
Not at all. I don't know what's dutiable.Do I have to pay duty on things for my own use?
It's very helpful. The course has let me into a new world of literature. I read so many great literatures.
That's really nice. I'd like this one. It looks very attractive.
Where did you buy it?
Well, dear, we can't force him to go to college. It's up to him.
Can you help me please?
( Before Christmas Party ) Are you ready for the Christmas party tonight
I'm from California.
Have you got a single room for Monday evening, please?
Which is better, here or PCC?
Believe me, you really look much better than before.
Raise the alarm by breaking the glass of the nearest fire alarm. Call Security, say ' Fire ' and give your name and exact location. At night you should phone the fire service from the nearest telephone.
We'll have fruit salad to start and then the roast beef.
Waiter, can I have the bill please?
Yeah, I just got one the other day.
I'm afraid not. We insist on a letter of credit, because as seller, we also have the problem of funds being tied up.
I see. Do you ski often?
Yes. I used to come out here with my grandpa as child.
That sounds alright.
Very well. What about you?
We have just arrived from Tokyo and we've been looking for our reserved car of your company all over, but we cannot find it.
Sure, why not?
I wonder if you could help me, I'm looking for a room.
During the last two years, there has been a great increase in goods stolen abroad.
Don't bother. those are a dime a dozen where we are going.
I got the job you recommended me for last week.
All the way up on Las Flores Drive and Fair Oaks.
Have you bought War Craft 2 yet?
What did you watch today?
Use, I want a eye-shadow.
That's right. We've been dating since last September.
You've got a deal.
I ’ m not sure I like the idea of that. I don ’ t want people copying me or other people. It could be very confusing.
I'd like to hear that.
I know, but I forgot to go to the bathroom before we left.
It won't be but a few seconds, sir.
Hello, I have a reservation for a double.
Excuse me, are you American?
Oh, I have an elder sister. She is married.. Her husband is a businessman.
Is the furniture sturdy?
Thanks, this is a fine party. We should have a drink together to celebrate your birthday
Janet Jackson is more pop music.Shania sings country music. Celine just seems to hit all the right notes.
That's great. That means I can bring my cat, Mr. Twinkles. Where is the apartment located?
Sure. Take as much as you want. They are free gifts from this shop.
I'd like to change these dollars into RIB. Would you please tell me the exchange rate between American dollar and RIB?
It's not good to start with too much work-out at the beginning. What about trying something else?
Where is some fresh produce that's on sale?
I am sorry, Bob. If you had told me you were coming up, I would have kept tonight free. But you didn ’ t tell me.
It's quite a delicate piece of equipment, so I hope it was well-packed. It's oblong-shaped, about 50 cm long. It's made of metal.
That's 626-555-1739. Thank you so much for choosing our hotel, sir!
On the second floor.
Where will you be going?
Good morning Mr. Li
I saw her dating with her ex-boyfriend again.
My birthplace is Yentai.
We charge a 1 euro commission on each deal. How much would you like to change?
Oh, you're welcome.
I am talking about dinner tonight, not a lifetime.
For me, I think I will iron my shirt and trousers. Actually, weekends tend to be the most hectic day in the whole week.
Did you like the party?
Such a lovely girl. I hope my Paul is lucky enough to find a girl like that someday!
Well, all the drinks including beer are free of charge.
Yes, of course. In accounting, cash means all items that are acceptable for depositing in a bank.
I got major FOMO from missing that doctors.
Yes, thank you. When he gets back, please just let him know that jane called. And i need him to call me back.
My father ’ s angry face always makes my blood run cold.
I'll put the shopping basket back.
It's different for everyone, but because I knew school was going to be so much fun, I really got excited about it.
When the lower branches are removed, you ’ ll be able to sit under the tree.
We'll be ready to order by the time you get back!
That ’ s correct. It’s a murder mystery based on actual murders that book place in Florida several years ago. The main character-the police invesigator-is based on the man who investigated the case.
I made my little brother cry.
I'll come prepared.
Hello. Do you like this jewelry? I made most of these items myself.
Does this bus really go to the mall?
I'd like both.
Hi, Sally! You are talking to the proud father of a new baby girl!
Really? You only review your lessons in one month? Does it work?
Fine. Now complete this form and sign your name at the bottom.
Why did you stay home today?
I see. So this is your hometown?
I've got to be going now too.
Well, what do you like doing?
Yes. Thank you so much.
Any time. If you have a good idea, don't be afraid to speak up.This is a company that appreciates initiative.
That's a good idea. Let's go!
If you did, you probably got ripped off.
Excuse me, can you tell me the way to Holton railway station?
Are you interested in mountaineering?
It’s unfair.
I'm afraid I have lost my ticket. Can I buy one again?
Here is a gift for you. I hope you like it.
Glad to meet you, Wang Lin. I am Mary.
I was trembling in the wind when he ran to me with an umbrella in his hand and asked, ' Where is your home? '
Excuse me. Is this the right way to the museum?
But I'm not sure you're strong enough yet. Here's some seafood rice soup I made. It's delicious.
Yep. See how long and curly my lashes are?
But to me it's really enjoyable.
Hold on, that's an item. You should put that in the recycle bin next to the trashcan.
I'm sorry, sir. The rooms are not available now. But would you like to have your dinner in the dinning hall? I can find a table by the window for you.
not at all. I never really did, to be honest. What about you? Did your family used to play games together?
At six thirty AM tomorrow.
Sorry, I won't. I'll be working against the clock to finish my presentation.
Good. I'll take care of it.
Yes, it would be nice to see the apartment.
I don't know, sir. But it won't change much.
No, she bought them in the U. S.
They ’ re this coming Tuesday.
No, I am sorry I have no idea. I am a stranger here.
I was caught in the heavy rain, or I would have come earlier. I am sorry I kept you waiting.
No, thanks. I'm on diet.
I always get excited the day before.
No problem. We also need bread, so I'll go to the baker's. I'll get some vol au vents for Victor's birthday bash on Friday. We'll need balloons for that too.
I will call you when a computer is free.
What is your idea?
OK, I'll do it right now.
No, I'm a Britisher. Where do you come from?
well, you know how I've been working at the Economist as a proof-reader, right?
Well, here you are. Remember to put it in a proper place.
where will you be staying?
Is there a big generation gap between parents and their children in your country?
I'd like to reserve a table for two, please.
What is your greatest strength?
I don't like the way they sag down. I feel like I have plumber butt in them.
Where's the bowl gone?
No sooner said than done. Can I help you with anything else?
Well, as per capital income goes up and up, the growth sector seems to be in the high-end.
When's the wedding going to be?
how do you usually get to school?
who ’ s the author?
Yes. Table tennis is probably the most popular.
Yes, well put your name on it after you have downloaded it off the company website. OK?
But I have no time to lose.
Did you read the news that ' China's property prices rose at the fastest pace in 18 months in December, ending the year with rising fears of bubbles in the property market '?
any time after 2 pm today would be good for me.
I ’ m asking about overdraft fees.
ok, i choose luckies.
I see. What ’ s it like there?
I would be happy to look at apartments with you.
I'm planning on going, but I really need her to give me my invitation.
How many undergraduates are hired here each year?
6. So we should give them special attention. Some of them don't have a good health.
Darling. I think you have made a mistake.
Yes of course. This is a really good one actually.
Thank you so much. Have you got a credit card, Mr. Sandals?
Wonderful. Just e-mail me the time and date and I'll be there.
Oh, dear! How ruthless!
What should I bring with me?
Ok. This man is tall and slim. He ’ s got blue eyes and curly brown hair.
What flavor would you like?
According to today's exchange rate, every US dollar in cash is equivalent to 0.75 euros.
What about the cost of delivery?
No, it's unnecessary. Just respect the staff and their own opinions.
I think my favorite job so far was when I worked for Linaria. It was hard work but the people on my job crew were great to work with. We really worked as a team. I enjoy working with those people.
Here your are. I wonder how much interest can I earn for my current account.
You did a good job for the company. So, this is your first day in the new position. How do you feel?
I ’ m not sure yet. I may take the train but then again I might take the bus.
No, thanks. That will be it.
I saw Emily yesterday evening. She was wearing a CD evening gown. She told me she bought it in the outlet center and she saved $ 120!
Good evening, Mary.
How's her skin?
Can I have your boarding pass? We need to stamp it.
That's a good idea.We haven't been there for ages.
Do friends of the bride always sit on one side of the church and friends of the groom on the other?
Yes. it is I can teach you if you like.
Yes, of course. But I only freelance on weekends with my uncle.
I cannot, Mum. Nobody can help me!
I will support myself. In recent years, I have saved enough money for my study in the U. S.
I live on Las Flores and Fair Oaks.
Oh, what ’ s he like?
Maybe you are right. I will discuss it with my wife tonight.
We don't know, but he's going to the doctor tomorrow.
Let ’ s just say that by the third date, we both realized that we had fallen in love.
Thank you. I can't imagine the design of the new computer is so popular among computer users.
I hope you will like it.
What if I require a loan for a short period of time?
Really? Does she live here in Seattle?
Do you have perfume?
That's all tight, Mr.Smith.That ' s my job. I'm very glad he recovered so soon.
Can I have your keys, please? Thank you. Here's your statement.
On Trans Pacific international flights, each ticketed passenger is permitted a maximum of two checked bags with a maximum weight per checked bag of 70 pounds.
When do you expect it to be finished?
Sure, it's spelled Office and then D - E - P - O - T.It ' s in the Yellow Pages.
I'll have ham and egg with French fries. What dessert do you want?
Your speech should not call attention to itself, but should reveal your individuality and ability.
Because our contract says that you will live here for three years.
But they are not as convenient as the subway.
All right. Please be quick about it.
Congratulations. That's great!
That's Lincoln.
But isn't it more expensive?
How much is a transfer?
How long have you been in America?
I'd like to have some local specialties. Would you recommend for me, please?
For our lunch meeting with the investors, do we have to make a reservation at the restaurant or do we just show up?
Have you ever considered that perhaps we have a morale problem among our employees? If everyone is discontent with their work, of course they won't stick arround.
This bus ride is taking forever.
How do I set up an E-mail account?
Aunt Rose! That mole is so huge! OK, my turn. He has a crooked nose and full lips. He has quite a few freckles and an oval face. Oh, he is also bald!
That's right, I have to work hard.
Let's hope it's the beginning of a long and prosperous relationship.
Not really. I'm telling the truth.
Right, I see. Let me give you another 500 RIB.
Yes, someone give me a pamphlet introducing the restaurant and its business hours when I passed by this morning.So, let ’ s have a try. My treat.
I can't now because I have to buy a present for my mother.
Good. Let ’ s take a look at that rash... it looks worse than it is. I ’ m going to prescribe some ointment for it. If the rash doesn ’ t clear up in a few days, come back and see me. Do you have any other symptoms?
Who do I talk to if I want I to see some of them?
Daddy, do you mind helping me prepare the supplies for mountain climbing.
So is there a refrigerator?
You need to contact the utility company and make arrangements to transfer the utilities to your name.
Right. She ’ s not very tall and she ’ s quite plump. She ’ s got blonder hair, but I don ’ t know what color her eyes are.
I bought some special local products.
Well, when do you think you can come over to work?
I think it should be more useful to hand out some fliers which is also cheaper.
Now, madam, here is the Hotel.
You're Mary, right?
The port is quite exquisite. It must have spent years aging in barrels. Am I right?
Yeah. I found it is so close to our life.
Then where can I catch it?
Yes, there is shrimp in there along with sea vegetables and lemon grass.
The London Weekly right?
Are you? I thought you had something to drink at her home.
Put on the helmet, please.
How do I get to the EDD?
That happened quickly! Are you going to see him again?
Ok. Here's my passport.
Yes, I usually develop and print all my own photos.
But some people use this occasion to create trouble. Have you heard of the Black Friday Virus on the computer? It is designed to break out on every Friday the Thirteenth.
Do you know exactly what you would be doing as a Laboratory Assistant?
I'm hungry, let's order up something to eat.
I don ’ t want to hear it! Now go to your room!
They're serviced regularly. We give them a basic service every 10,000 km or so and a main service once a year, or every 100,000 km.
Sorry, sir, but I recommend you Bacardi White. It's quite delitous.
Profits are almost nonexistent now, we can't beat their price. How do they keep their price so low?
OK ma'am, can you tell me the date you expect to check in?
I used to go hunting with my uncle, that's how.
Yes, luckily our office is just down the street.
You know how things get piled up on my desk when I am busy — I know that sometimes I do misplace things, but I always read all the memos that go around. They go directly to my in-box. Are you sure it was sent to the whole office?
You know, interest is the best teacher.
I'm giving you some antibiotics and aspirins. Take an aspirin when you've got a fever, and take one antibiotic capsule every four hours, and go home and rest in bed for two days. Drink plenty of water, then you'll feel better. Here's the prescription.
Thank you! Remember that they go to the vet this Saturday.
Paul? I need to work out a time to get together with your people.
that sounds exciting. Where did you go?
Yes. I have given all the designers notice of meeting by telephone.
We have a good variety. What decade would you like?
Good. You probably should be much better by tomorrow.
It doesn't matter. I just want to have a relax and I don't care how far it is. Can you tell me how to get there?
Well, I would go if you kept your promise of going to the gym with me everyday!
I ’ ll be away for a moment.
are you available on Sunday?
Not very much.
You can take the No. 22 trolley bus to get there.
I bought it from the Macy's at the Santa Anita mall.
Well, will you just go back to work after lunch?
It is hard to say.But I've to start by working as a trainee before I really become an experienced marketing assistant.Sometimes, I am really under great pressure when it gets busy.
It is a little bit expensive, but it's worth it.
Would you please ask the manager to come over?
It leaves at 8: 30.
He ’ s not in at the moment. Can I take a message?
We will pump air into this cuff to get a reading.
What note? I can't see. I just pulled an all-nighter.
Is there something you need?
Ah... very well, sir. I'll have them delivered this afternoon.
That's a very popular way to pay nowadays, totally hassle free!
All right. That'll be $ 12.50. Your pizzas will be there in 30 minutes.
You are most welcome.
Yes it is, but you ’ ll have to discuss the details with your manager.
Yes, it is. Sayuri Beds, Tokyo, Japan.
Right over there.
I hope not. I think they would be a threat to those of us that lived on Earth.
You need to stay hydrated on this drug, but most people experience little side effects.
OK. Fifty yuan for each.
Is there a bathroom?
Hello. Is there a room available tonight?
I would select the individual that has the most qualifications among all the applicants. He doesn ’ t have to be the person if we have to fill the vacancy. But he has to be the best, even if we have to pay him higher.
Is it? Oh, no. The concert will begin in twenty minutes. Are we too late to get there?
Look, Bob hasn't made any progress on that project.
Actually, Miao Ping, I'm here to close my account with you. I'm going home, the company is transferring me back to London.
My biggest satisfaction is when I experience growth in a job. When I first started as a paralegal, I had a lot to learn. But through hard work, advice from some good mentors and continuing education, I have come a long way. I've learned to be flexible when possible and to deal with difficult people in a positive manner.
In Taipei, you know, the company usually installs the things they sell.They don't charge extra.
I know, but there was nobody else.
Maybe you're right. But I'm still worried.
Because of the low salaries.
That's better. This way we will both have money to take a cab home, otherwise, you would probably have to walk.
Did you hear what happened to Mike last night?
Don't forget to ask when you can receive a reply.
I want to see them. How can I go there?
I plan to add an introductory letter behind the resume to increase the probabilities of success in the interview.
what are you listening to? Is that Beethoven or Mozart?
Don't mention it. I'm always willing to help good students.
You mean, what's happening? Well, constable, I'm trying to get out of the windowand Fred here is helping me.
I know. I have an idea that we get together to discuss this next week.
We're considering of ordering 200 computers, but I'm wondering about the price you'll possibly offer.
Sure. But more importantly, I can have peace of mind.
What's an ID card?
Isn't it past your bedtime already?
We've also got a fragrance-free one, specially designed for sensitive skin. I'm sure you'll like it.
Good morning, Vera, Nice to meet you.
She must be fuming with anger at such a bid, wasn't she?
Yes, yes. I've got all of that here.
Does this happen all the time or maybe a little more in the cold weather?
I started school somewhere else.
I look forward to more of engineers.
It’s the truth.
I'm going to camp. I've gone to camp for four summers.
That'll be too late.
About like this?
do you open all your IM tools whenever you're using a computer?
Yeah, my wife likes that one, too. Personally, I prefer action movies.
Sounds like you may be far-sighted. OK, then cover your left eye and read the chart in front of you.
I graduated from the Beijing Foreign Studies University. My major is English Translation and Interpretation.
Umm. too shiny. And I wear pantyhose with my shoes so let ’ s look for a closed-toe shoe.
Hey! The movie hasn't even started and they're almost gone!
I bought you a new one last year. Isn't it handsome?
This microwave stove has many functions. Let me show you. For example, if you want to cook meat, you just need to put meat in it, and press the button with a picture of meat, that ’ s OK. After several minutes, you can eat the delicious meat.
That's all right. Make sure to look closely next time.
He's the US president, who walked five miles just to give a lady her change, isn't he?
Will that be all then?
They sum my skills and experience. I ’ d like to start it with 4000 yuan a month.
Yes, please tell her that band practice has been moved to Tuesday night at eight thirty.
I'm planning on cleaning it up a little later.
Well, if that's the case, I don't mind breaking the image that they might have or the standards that they have. I can only do what I know, and live how I've lived all my life, because I'm a fairly stubborn person.
Excuse me, would you mind taking a picture for us?
Regular is $ 1.15, Super is $ 1.25 and Premium is $ 1.39.
Actually, I could you some help. Thank you so much.
I suppose my strong point is that I like developing new things and ideas.
How long should I continue taking them?
Let me ask some questions. Do you know what people need to get entry into China?
I'll make the arrangement and let you know the time tomorrow.
Just follow the walkway to the outside and climb the stairs to the third floor.
Where are you working?
Um... yes. Here is a notice from our financial department, seems your child's Tumion is overdue.
To be honest, I think classical music is too complicated for me.
If you are going to husband hunting in a bikini, then I want to wear one, too.
They are attending an international conference here.
And sometimes a substitute table can be made out of a few desks.
I see. We will go the day after tomorrow.
You have much patience.
Do you have some information on these?
I'm afraid it has been our practice so far to insist on payment by L / C.
What was it for?
Thank you. Is there any mail for me?
Christine, I know you ’ re new here and there ’ s a lot to learn, but you are going to have to learn to keep your work in better order. We can ’ t afford to lose an important document.
Do you know where you're going to get it?
That ’ s wonderful. I am impressed at someone so young taking a stand.
I am impatient with myself at times and am hard on myself.
Extra income.They can get rich with sheer ads.
Oh, no. You should take the No. 14 tram.
We have regular, super, and premium gasoline. This is a new car, so I'd recommend premium.
You can be assured of it. There are various nutritions which are beneficial for the growth of babies ' bone and cerebrum.
I see. So, that would mean that every month it would just come from my account? That does sound like a good idea, totally trouble free.
Certainly, sir. At what time should we expect you?
Watch out for strangers, and don't go too far away. Alright?
All right. I'll bring your soup right away.
I didn't know your sister lives in the city, when did she move there?
Don ’ t, don ’ t, don ’ t, don ’ t say that. That, that makes it worse.
Could you tell me shall I take the express or local train?
It sure is cold this morning, isn ’ t it? I barely even get out of bed!
And what is it regarding please?
Thank you. It is very kind of you.
Port's too sweet. It's a dessert wine. A dry red French wine would be nice with meat. A glass of chilled white German wine would be good with fish. But, we're not eating and it's hot out, so I think I'll have a tall glass of sangria with ice.
Are you serious? We ’ Ve been friends for years! We can ’ t just change that overnight!
No, I'm afraid not. We only accept our own store credit card.
I ’ m tired, Larry. Can we have a break?
Sometimes, but these days I'm often too busy.
There must be buttons. How do they turn it on and off?
That's all right. I can manage.
Hello, I ’ m Mark. I ’ m just wondering if you are free this weekend
I think so.We certainly don't want a hijack to happen on the plane today.
But It’s so old.
why didn't you just buy another battery for it so you could use it?
Review all the lessons in this unit and see if you can understand the main idea of each lesson.
I need your library card.
Well, I don't think so.
Why do you ask me these questions?
No wonder! I'd be unhappy, too.
Hey, what's new?
I feel run down, tired. I've been having headaches almost every day. And I'm not getting as much sleep as usually do.
Hey Mei Hong, how are you getting to Xi ’ an next week?
She knows how to speak Spanish and Japanese.
Would you like any cash back?
Don't be so jealous. He never speaks ill of you before me.
Suppose you have to do one of the two, which do you prefer?
You married him for that reason?
I'm sorry, but I've never done this before. How many what?
Throw it away and buy a new one.
you refused the gift? That's terrible.
Does it bother you that your husband goes away on long business trips?
Are you sure he ’ s purchased enough insurance for both of you? If something terrible happened with your husband, and he doesn ’ t have sufficient insurance, my company does have a policy that could cover you and your husband if something happened to either of you.
Really? Thanks! I went to that hair salon that you told me about, but enough about me! Look at you! You haven ’ t aged a day since the last time I saw you! What is your secret!
Then, how about this?
You know I did.
I am keen on a coat on www.dingding.com. But it requires having an online banking account. Is it necessary?
don't worry.
If you were assigned some work which you are not so interested, would you take it or not?
Yes, I was. And I like living here.People know how to party here. In Taipei, some people know how to party.But here, everyone does.
You'd better take some medicine and have a good rest. I hope you'll be yourself pretty soon.
Yeah, I just need to make the final touches.
Oh, this's easy. You can take the subway to 34 street. You'll see it as you get out.
Why'd you run into me?
Wow, you're so lucky. I saw it on TV. But it must be so different to be there in the concert hall.
Is there a lot of nightlife in your city?
I am glad we've straightened everything out.
Okay. This will be charged to your amenities account, okay?
You want to go with him?
I want to buy some clothes in clothing store. When we are going back, go to the butcher's shop and buy some chicken.
Ah, you're just too emotional.
You seemed to be fed up with Mary.
I'm not sure, but still it did attract a large crowds today.
You are not English, are you?
Albert? Could you co-sign this approval sheet? Accounting ’ s getting really picky.
I am not feeling very well. I've got a bad cold.
And do you have any medicine for air sickness?
The lower branches on that tree are hanging very low. Would you like me to cut them off for you?
That is one of reasons why I am here now. I am really willing to have some cooperation with your company.
Yes, this is the Resume Writing Workshop. Welcome!
Sorry, I'm supposed to be with my son.
But what about settling down to start a family? Doesn't anyone want to get married any more?
These are from Mexico.
Whatever. Just turn right here... The freeway will be packed at this hour... let ’ s take a side street. Go on! Get out of our way! Move, move!
I don't know what happened!
no, I insist. I kept telling you that I would treat you to dinner but I still haven't.
no, I'll pay. It's my turn anyway. You paid last time.
I won ’ t be able to vote on Tuesday.
Well, last night when I returned from the theatre, I found that I'd lost my wallet.
Oh, they look nice. May I try that black one on?
Where on earth are we?
But she wants to learn the butterfly stroke
Good morning, this is Jane. This is Apple Co. Ltd.
well, I was going to drive to Birmingham to see some friends.
It's 12 dollars 80 cents all together. But don't forget the tip, it usually 15 %.
It sounds reasonable. Maybe I should look on the bright side.
We have thought of you carefully with discretion, but the other candidate has more experiences.
Can I read it when you ’ re done?
Everything I've seen so far is very impressive, very impressive indeed.
5, and please put us as close as possible to the stage.
Sure. Do you want to go first, Sally?
Ok, actually I don ’ t mind eating peas and carrots.But I hate broccoli and cauliflower.
How many people are traveling with you today, miss?
I'm a professor at a university.
I don ’ t actually know him.
Hi, Susan. What ’ s up?
Yeah, this place looks great. Wow, look at her, she can certainly get down, can't she?
Let me calculate the price for you. I can give you a 15 % discount if you buy the seven units.Let ' s see here. Your total would be 5929 dollars.
Oh, come on. I will be back as early as possible.
Even if the class is full?
Wait a moment, I would like to take some snapshots here.
Of course not! She thinks he's an apple-head. She doesn't like an apple-headed man, you know.
this bloody computer!
Of course. It's 555-4653.
What happened? Did you have a fight?
If there's something wrong with it in a week, can I come back to change it?
Let ’ s look at the newspaper.
Well, what game do you want to play?
I want to see you play. Be quick!
O. K. No problem. Anything else?
Are you serious? You haven't even been anywhere on vacation?
You're welcome at any time.
No. Why don't you check out the newspaper?
Are you still on your summer vacation?
For four people. We'd like a quiet table with a fine view of the river.
Hello, Kristy. Could I speak to the department that deals with credit card applications, please?
3,000 marks in hundreds and the rest in tens and twenty ’ s, please.
Well, they just look a bit funny. but far from making a laughing stock out of you.
You are welcome. Thank you for taking time out of your busy schedule to interview me.
I always like to go for a walk before a supper.
Probably. People's consumptive habit is changing rapidly because of the internet.
It would be my pleasure to help you. What do you need help with?
What ’ s the matter, BOB?
Yes, it's so helpful.
Oh! How about we hang it over here where everyone can see it?
Yeah. Let me see if he'll do it, and I'll get back to you.
I'm highkey obsessed with this vegetarians.
Have you passed College English Test Band 4 or Band 6?
I see. It looks like there are still a lot of issues we need to work on in the US.
Sure you can, in about two and a half weeks.
What's the hurry?
I don't think we can meet the delivery date you suggest. It's too soon.
You can put stuff on the picnic table. Back to work. The grill is calling me...
Excuse me. May I take a picture of you?
The one that said, You're a creep. From me you won't hear another peep. I hope you wreck your jeep.
Wonderful! And, you mentioned ' perks '? I do hope I'll be getting some of those.
Grades are important, but don't you think that gaining the knowledge is important, too?
Really? Perhaps I should listen to classical music often. I heard that listening to classical music is helpful in reducing stress.
Excellent. I see you have the 18th century poetry class for next semester.And the modern novel class. You haven't taken a Shakespeare class yet.
Very well. You will need some stamps for the postcards and I need to weigh that package, too.
I'd like to leave this bag with you.
Yes, not bad. Like turn your cell phone ringer off and find a private place to make calls which It’s showing your respect to your co-workers.
Jason, where have you been hiding lately? You know it's been a long time since your last call. Have you been good?
Anything that distracts you from work?
Yes, you are right. I like the song in the movie, edelweiss, do you remember it?
That's not bad. What about the price? Did she tell you how much her friend wants for the car?
Yeah, right here.
What's your permanent address?
Pretty bad. I ’ Ve had a bad cold for three days and still can ’ t get rid of it.
Pretty well. I think the boss liked my ideas.
I was wondering if you guys also tailor clothes?
If the nest room is still noisy, could you give me a different room please?
sure. What kind of material do you want for the suit to be made from?
Where do you come from?
As you wish, sir. You'll have a wonderful time there.
Three times a day after meals.
it's just near the Dong Si Shi Tiao subway stop.
You're having coffee, aren't you?
This blouse is a special offer today. You can have it at 10 % off the regular price.
Sounds like he is pretty cute. What do you think of him?
Saturday is perfect. What time would you like?
Do you have this model in white?
Could you possibly effect shipment more promptly?
I've been studying hard for my examinations. And you?
Can I stop by?
I have no plans for Friday, so curry would be great. Which restaurant do you have in mind?
That might be a little too much, but we ’ ll see how it goes.
look! they've taken your fur coat too.
I understand. And are there other bonuses included?
I'm calling to ask about your apartment you advertised.
I usually meet some friends and we play sports together or I might spend some time alone on my hobbies. I spend winter evening watching tv, but I spend summer evening at cultural events if I have time.
I've got to go to bed. Have to work tomorrow.
if you don't start when you're young, it's hard to get the hang of it.
I know one. Let's go.
Do you want black or white coffee?
Now let's talk about your interests and hobbies.
I know them. They are the two brothers living next door.
How about a spicy tofu and vegetable stir-fry?
That's great. It seems that Typhoon is not as bad as earthquake.
oh, your hand is still sore. You should put some ointment on it to stop the swelling.
Yes. Do you know where it is?
I would like that. Thank you.
Yes, please. Can I exchange money here?
I'm sorry to have taken up too much of your time.
that's something you need to overcome. Men should make the first move as most of girls prefer being chased.
It's no problem. I was really missing you anyway.
I like classical music. Do you?
Yes, we won the men ’ s 110 metres hurdles. I watched that on TV. What other events did we win?
Would you sit down and write down your name and address here?
No, I don't. I can't stand them!!
I've got a backache.
I had a wonderful experience with engineers.
Sure, I love looking at photos.
Fine, but before you agree, don't you need to know what you're agreeing to?
Yes, certainly. I know her mother and father, and brother and sisters, too.
My birthplace is Nanjing.
Yes.we have herb medicine and ready-made medicine.
You're funny.
But she always harps on me.
Of course. Let me help you.
Don't be so happy, it is just one of my tests!
I'd like to discuss the new order with you. Would you like to have lunch together at Garden Hotel next Tuesday?
Wise decision. You'll find it's totally worth it.
I'm not sure.Let me have a look... It could be a coffee grinder.
First of all, did you vote today?
That's a good idea!
The order is so urgently required that we have to ask you to speed up shipment. If shipment is too late, we'll have to turn to other suppliers.
I ’ m sorry to hear that. Is there anything else I can do?
Let's hope this stroke of good luck lasts. I hope we are over our financial difficulties for good.
Is there anything of interest to us in the business sections?
Yes. I like cooking very much. I got this hobby when I was 12 years sold.
He knows you very well.
it wasn't too bad. At lease I'm alive.
One thing I love our boss for is that he always knows when to give you a pay raise without being asked for.
Does it bother you when you eat something really cold?
I stick to my principles and keep to the rules. Sometimes, they just lack enthusiasm. When I get them involved with something constructive, some of them change their attitude later.
that's too bad. I'm sure there's a logical explanation for it. Don't be too upset about it.
One yuan fifty cents. Drop it in the box here.
That sounds good. I'm going to order the same thing.
That's 886.
sure. What movies were you thinking about going to?
Look, this is a pimple!
Wonderful. I'd like to know why you're interested in this position at our paper.
What are your plans for this weekend?
Will it shrink when washed?
Can you make my hair short?
I don't think so. I like them. Then what's your favorite book?
Good. I think I'll hire one for 7 days.
there ’ s branch on new street. Walk up this street until you get to the first set of traffic lights. Then turn right at the traffic lights.
All right. Goodbye, Dave.
Sure. What about you? What do you like about the Olympics?
Yes, I'd love to. It’s interesting to see who is considered the best in their field and which film are thought to be particularly good.
Yes. Please write them down on the notice board. I want everybody to see them.
Not in the least bit.
After a year together, I thought it pretty safe to assume that we would automatically spend our vacation together.
I voted for our next President.
What are the seasons like in your city?
He told me to stay in bed for ten days.
He was wearing a mask.
Ok. We have several kinds of scarves here. Let me get them for you. Just wait a minute.
Will there be any extra charge?
Yeah, you should have. It was really exciting.
I need help with something.
I'd like a cup of mocha.
Heineken and Budweiser. We have a two-for-one happy hour special.
You are expected to report for on-job training on the 15th of May. Will you be there?
Yes, do you have tickets?
That's amazing.
Hi. You said that you might need some help with preparing dinner. What would you like me to do?
Willy, I don't think we have much butter. Can you buy some?
I am afraid not. We usually design the label ourselves. You know we should be responsible for the brand labels of our goods.
Hi, Kerry. Did your husband make cooking for you?
I don't know where to go to find a nice bedroom set.
why not go again to celebrate out one-year anniversary? We can go to the same beach, stay in the same hotel and enjoy a dinner in the same restaurant.
Okay. I understand. I ’ ll call the Customer Service Office of the manufacturer. Thank you.
Too much, Harry. Don't blame her anymore.
Yes, but the offer only lasts this week.
How are you these days?
Okay. I'm going to stay up a while. I've got to go over the household budget. We're a little overspent this month.
And when we get back from the doctor's, you'll gargle again.
How many elevators are there?
I think you probably know China has adopted a flexible policy in her foreign trade.
Excuse me. Can I get a refund of my ticket? I have to cancel my trip because I have something emergent to deal with.
Come on. Cheer up!
It has been seasonal during these past three years.
Fine, Mr. Emory. Let me just grab a pad and pen.
I don ’ t like to sit around and so like to always find things to do to keep myself busy.
He has extensive experience, although the guy ’ s really deep, sometimes, it scares me.
Sarah, what did you do today?
What time exactly?
Well, going to a cinema, visiting the galleries, exhibitions and museums, finding and meeting old friends, exercising in the health club or mountain biking. There are so many good choices.
I must praise you for your modesty and diligence. What's your plan next?
I can imagine! I tend to faint when I see blood, so I think I won ’ t be taking up a course like that anytime soon!
He wouldn't say over the phone.
So, have you made your decision yet?
Yes, I'd like a book about law.
Doctor, what are some things I can do to stay as healthy as I can be?
Oh. My God! Are you serious?
Yes, please sit on the chair.How do you want to have your hair cut?
8: 00 Beijing time.
No, I think you deserve some recognition here ; I mean, if I look back on your previous presentations, this is a huge improvement.
O. K., thanks, doctor.
I'm probably going to spend the day looking at cars.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do, they say.
You will need to send the tripod as luggage because it is too long to fit in our gauge box for carry-on items.
No, he's coming with Aunt Cynthia and the girls.
Yes. If we don't have the facilities to deal with it here, we send it out for maintenance.
Dude, you're a stalker man. Just ask her on a date.
That's fine, so I'll let you go with a warning.
We have to ensure that the product should be attractive to guarantee sales.
You can contact me any time you need me. Bye!
Gary. Could you type up this report for me? I have to take off early this afternoon.
Let me have a look at the pamphlet.
Thank you so much. I have been expecting to come to China.
Well. Tornadoes can be dangerous, it's true.If we hear something like a loud train coming, then we have to go in the basement.
Actually, I've only got a two-seater. I'll have to go on my own.
I see. Did anything else happen?
Welcome to our factory. My name is Tiang Had and I'll show you around here.First we'll take a look at the workshop which produces food thermometers. Please, this way.
Oh, in that case, sure! Uh... what are these long sock-looking things?
Red is very popular.
I don't like the merry-go-round.
Well that's great! It's nice that we have something in common.
Just remember that red means absolutely no parking and white means loading and unloading only. I think you'll be good to go!
Really? That's very good of you, Helen. But I must get a new suitcase, my old one needs repairing.
The area code is 2, and the number is 2367-9960.
I have never seen so many flavors of ice cream in one place!
The music is on.May I have the pleasure to dance with you?
Oh, Vous are ' volatile organic compounds '. That's a technical term for solvents or other chemicals found in things like paint.
I haven ’ t ever tried that, but it sounds like a good idea.
Can you recommend some universities with good graduate schools?
I wouldn ’ t be able to make it without your help.
In that case, what can we do to help you? Have you any suggestions?
And is that all?
But I'd still like...
Do you know how the national flag of Canada looks like?
Please rush me to the railway station
No. I'm a sophomore. I take it you are a new student?
Is Ms April Wang available at the moment?
Credit card please. Here you are.
Jane, the meeting is scheduled from 1:00 this afternoon. Have you made the necessary arrangements?
Think how happy we were. Now this.Things always go wrong.
( After testing ) Your typing and stenography are pretty good. Would you be interested in applying for the job?
I also grew up in a big family. I have one older brother and three younger sisters.
Be seeing you then.
In that case, I ’ m right behind you.
It doesn ’ t seem like this library has it.
What post have you held before?
Are you most interested in a good steady job with benefits or one that will allow you to quickly advance?
It's natural. My friend told me you know how to work with curls.
As you know, we are in a very special time. This is a very hard time for many countries ' economics, both developed and developing. I think the current economic situation could be described as synchronized slowdown of major economies.
Thank you, sir, I'm sure I will.
I'm doing business through Internet now.
I ’ ll drink to that!
May I borrow your typewriter?
The London Weekly right.
Same here. I have't brought any new clothes for three months.
Sir, housekeeping will bring you a basketful of amenities momentarily.
Yes, I have a lot of previous experiences in sales. I worked in sales departments for two companies since I finished my university.
Just about. There are at least a few hundred in our immediate family alone.
But it seems that these talent shows are getting less popular these days. There's no such program on this year.
Two rows up on the right. We have various kinds of chocolates.
I ’ m a podiatrist. What about you?
Tomorrow? No, I am afraid I won ’ t be able to. I ’ m going on business to Birmingham.
It’s great! I ’ Ve learned a lot form reading it.
That's right.Will you check what fights are available on the sixth of September?
I can understand. I was lucky with my oldest ; she figured it out by herself and didn ’ t tell my son.
I really hate receiving spam. I also dislike having to listen to advertisements and jingles when they are broadcast in stores or on the subway.
It may have something to do with the food I had last night
These books are due back in two weeks.
I'll have a pint of the best.
We would like a smaller cozy cottage with 2 bedrooms and 1 bathroom.
Why not? When I go shoe shopping, I have so many options for sneakers that I spend awhile looking at all of the choices.
After you send the letter of inquiry, you should pay close attention not to miss any reply.
OK. How much do I need to pay for the registration?
OK, so the first thing we are going to do is pre-heat the oven, that way we have it at the desired temperature once we finish preparing everything. Set it to three hundred and seventy five degrees Fahrenheit.
I'm going to the store, would you like any Pesto Pistol?
Sorry, I don't think I can.
First, you should have enough sleep to get over the jet lag before the departure. Most people will suffer from jet lag for a few days after a long flight.
Sure, you want a continental one or an American one?
Sometimes we use a local employment agency. It depends on the job.
Did you want fries with your order?
I hear that you have been promoted. Congratulations on your promotion!
That sounds good. Now, how about the other alternatives?
May I have two tickets for Tiny Times?
That would be a definite bonus.
Let ’ s drive off this road.
Thanks. But it's necessary for me to buy a TV set.
Well, it's completely changed my life.
We are going door to door.
How come you don ’ t know where it is?
That's fine too.
Good day. I ’ m looking for a one-bedroom apartment today.
Smoking is harmful for your health.
Certainly. We have here the race apparatus, stationary bike, muscle builder set, chest expander, bar bell, dumb bell and so on.
OK. Could you give me a receipt?
You can see many cows and horses there. lf you are brave enough, you can try horseback riding. it is fun.
Alright, tell me what you think about this one.
Yes. But you know him. He's just worried that you're not Italian...
Yes, but I love the night air after it rains.
Your ID, please.
You've got to let her know. Come on! You've got to take a chance!
Face it, you don't like action movies because you're a snob.
Yes, if you want to wash something, there is a separate lavatory room outside.
Seriously, but I ’ m excited that I did.
Good morning, Mr. Zhang, this is Jimmy calling from Polaroid Company.
ok. We should get a few tins of tuna. Anything else?
How's your new apartment?
No, you're going the wrong way. You want a 103 from Beijing Zoo.
Don't worry about it. Try to look on the bright sight of things.
If the money was sent by cable, it would have taken about one or two days. But if it was sent by airmail, it would take at least one week.
I am sorry, we don't know the extent of the delay at present. But according to the latest weather forecast, there will be a change in weather soon.
No, I'm fine. Thank you.
Well.Good for him.
I'm gonna introduce myself.
Perhaps you can try the three minutes date, the latest type.
Then there's the Cantonese cuisine and the Kiangsu cuisine. Most southerners like them.
All right. If we decide to hire you, we'd pay you two thousand and five hundred yuan a month at the start. You can have Saturdays and Sundays off. Besides, you may have a paid month holiday every year. How do you think about it?
Boarding time is ten 20am.
I thought you were the only child in the family. Didn't China practice the only-child policy in the early 1980s?
Why don't you make an appointment for later in the week?
How do I take the pills?
You need to get a special application form.
Cindy told me about you in our gym class.
Alright, sir. I will get the paperwork ready for you. Just a moment.
Yes, I did. But nobody has handed it in as yet.
Under 300,000 RIB, we suppose.
An Ethiopian restaurant? Whoa! I always think of starving people in Ethiopia.
Voting is simple.
Not at all. You just need to provide your name, address, e-mail address, phone number and bank or credit card information. I will help you with that.
Let me get my morning coffee to get my brain working again.
I want an aisle seat as close to the exit door as possible, please.
My daughter. She is missing. I don ’ t know where she is.
Someone declared that he saw it.
That ’ s not a problem.
It takes a little more time. We have to check the ads in the paper. Probably also there are special real estate magazines with ads. Then we have to drive to the homes and look at them.
No, I ’ m sorry. I disagree. I don ’ t think you ’ Ve been working at full speed at all.
I need to finish my research paper.
No. you ’ re going the wrong way. You wanna 103 from the Beijing zoo.
Twenty minutes ’ walk at most.
Which do you like best?
so we're just going to have a party where they bring their own drinks and we just give them some snacks? I don't know how well that will go over.
Thomas, if I could write with the beauty in her eyes, I was born to look in them and know myself.
How much did you write it out for?
Now we really need some part-time workers.You see, our full-time staff knocks off at five pm, but now we hope to extend the hours to eight pm.We need some part-time shop assistants to work 3 hours a day from five pm to eight pm.But I am not sure if you are qualified for the job.Since most of our customers are foreign, competence of good communication in English is necessary here.
I can do that for you. Could I see the Remittance slip?
Sorry, but I'm on my way out now.Could you come back in an hour?
the game are so woke.
The stewardess said it's not company policy to wake people up for any reason.
it started off a bit slow, but now, business is really booming!
Great, so what happens now?
Of course I did. As recognition for a job well done. Once a month I invite the most productive employee to dinner.
Do you have any successful stories to share?
Nothing but the best for a pretty woman!
There are many ancient pine trees there. It is especially quiet at night. It is wonderful to listen to the monks chanting while listening to the soothing sound of the winds in the pine trees.
Tomorrow afternoon would be fine.
I ’ d like to, but there ’ s her boyfriend. He ’ s very broad-shouldered.
Yes, I did. I heard that they took both drivers to hospital. One needed surgery.
Fortunately, there is a widely-spoken commercial language, namely English.
Well, when will it be convenient for you?
I ’ m glad to have had the opportunity to meet you here.
Do you know him?
Thank you for waiting.It takes another ten to fifteen minutes, I'm afraid.
For about a month.
Cool! The sound is great. These earphones are awesome!
Nine dollars and fifty cents.
try not to let it bother you too much.
Tom, that lucky guy.
it must be very demanding.
That athletes was lit!
Do you have any questions you want to ask?
That's OK. I will eat my eggs and bacon, and you can take my pancakes back.
How much would you like to transfer?
How about we hook up for lunch at 12:00, and then go see the movie afterwards.
And he looks like a typical jog.
It's always been my dream to be a stewardess. And I like travelling to different places.
That sounds OK. So, we start here at the car park and walk along the path to the waterfall.
Okay, Bob, What is it?
Did you hear what's going on downtown today? All the orders from the factory are staging a demonstration in the streets. Not one of the two thousand employees showed up for work today, and they have gathered outside the city hall to demand better working conditions for all factory employees.
That's too bad. Well, where are you fishing?
It just isn't on time today.
Where do we pay the fare?
It’s nice to see foreign language films making a little impact on Hollywood. I like the “ best actor and actress ”.
We're lucky today.
You are right. But I just want to know how they prepare food and make it taste so different.
To which gate do I need to go to catch connection flight Ll 01 to Madrid?
okay okay, just let me have another cup of beers to get my head in the game.
If you like you can wait here. They will be ready in one hour and a half.
Excuse me? Do you have anything for a carsickness?
No. I might need to see your ID card, but that's about it.
How about today at 6 p. m.?
And Margaret and I can take the dog and go jogging in the park.
Oh, listen, you'll soon learn, and I am sure they will explain to you how they like to get prepared.
That's what I do.
Thank you. The last name is Foster.
Fine. Once you have it, you can go to the bookstore. Do you know where that is?
Please forgive me, but I have to leave. I feel terrible. but...
You mean you need a more detailed agenda for yourself?
Wow! You really went all out! Did you make any coffee?
Have you been ever been to Disneyworld?
I hear that Tom got divorced, and I don ’ t know how he is now.
Yeah, we do. in the middle of summer there can be thunderstorms every day usually in the afternoon. i heard your city has a lot of fog, is that true?
Yeah? Can I take a look at the Sirs you carry?
I have a sweet tooth. I can not help but think about having something sweet between meals.
I'm sorry.
All right. I ’ ll see you on Friday.
I didn ’ t think he would.
well, basically it's similar to face-to-face chat, but you type instead of talk. You should try it at least once.
But it's an expensive hobby, isn't it?
I like fishing too. I usually fish near the lake.
Go to www.yahoo.com and click on Travel and tickets. There are about a billion sites to look at.
Hello! Is Mr. Green there?
Yup, they have good French fries as well. Not very thick, but crispy enough. You should try them with some mayonnaise sauce. That is the Belgium style. You will love it.
Susan, I am inviting you and Frank to our house warming party this weekend.
Sarah is your uncle Bill's older daughter. When she was young, Bill's first wife, Sarah's mom died. Three years later Bill married again.
That Japanese restaurant, Shogun, got good reviews.
No, I ’ d rather go out. The Chinese food here is rather different from what I had at home. Maybe we can try some other food today... What about that all-you-can-eat place we passed the other day, the one over in the shopping center?
Do you put your feet on your own table?
Sorry, I don't quite understand some difficult points in this unit. I wonder if you could help us to solve the problems.
I heard that we will call at some ports on the way. Is that true?
When will it be convenient for her?
No. Well, in America, 21 is the age when you're allowed to drink. So, many guys celebrate it in bars.
Actually, it's better...
what ’ s your greatest strength?
why don't you get it all fixed?
I'm pretty sure I'll be all right. In fact, I'd be delighted to come over and celebrate your birthday with you. What time are you planning to start?
The trash is full.
Perfect! Do you know the hours and rules for the library?
Excuse me, would you mind changing seats with me?
What makes is so great?
How was your game today?
well, the editor-in-chief heard that I had experience as an editor at another magadize and asked me if I was interested in becoming an assistant editor for him.
Mon and I got in another fight, Boris.
Yes. I heard about that. And I know you want to buy it, but I ’ m not interested in detective novels.
I ’ d like to use my Master Card, if I could. Hey, wait a minute! This is a bit more than I expected. Why is it so high?
By the way, don't forget your luggage on the ship.
Cheer up! Don't let me down. We all make mistakes, and that is life.
For about 3 hours. Enjoy your trip.
Honey, could you help me here a minute?
Excuse me, Dr.Steward, I wonder if I could talk with you about my paper.
I have enough to live off of for about 3 months. But I really don't want to spend my life savings on just living! I ’ d rather invest my money somehow.
I can't get into my room. I mean I left my room key inside.
Let me see. The data documents with ' A ' and ' B ' are the drafts, and the ones with ' C ' and ' D ' are formal contracts. Do you know what I mean?
Well, first, I'd like to buy a few postcards. My sister used to always send a postcard to herself whenever she went anywhere. I want to do that, too.
Yes please. And I ’ d like to be able to make video calls too.
You have stayed here for 3 nights, that's $ 230.
We are not interested in small orders. I suggest you order at least 2 000 dozen.
I live here. I was invited by George-he's the tall guy over there. He looks a bit drunk, actually...
You have no idea how happy I am for you.
Come on, you are left behind!
It's a good idea. But please be careful when you invest this time.
Get on the 261, and it'll take you the rest of the way to Sons.
Yes, I think my vocabulary and reading comprehension are not very bad.
Have you heard my good news?
That is a good selection, and I can bring your salads now or serve them with your entree.
We will send it to your room at 4:00 pm tomorrow.
Sounds interesting, but soccer doesn ’ t really appeal to me.
It’s a programme about islam. It’s very interesting.
Great, is our room ready yet?
Do you have any style in your mind?
You're hundred percent sure you want to eat here?
Oh, yes. How are you?
Well, I like reading, walking, swimming, hiking and playing basketball
In fact, I just swept the floor three days ago.
Yes, but you need install it after downloading so that you can use it.
Well, check the newspaper.
I'm afraid there must be a lot of people there.
You did? Wow! Where did you learn...
Do you know where the local office for this area is?
Six months. That's a long time.
So she isn't causing you any problems?
Yes. The Palace Hotel. You have to be there.
So that means you are shopping for presents?
What did you think of Tokyo?
Thanks, but I'm a lousy typist.
hi, how are you doing?
Yes, I had taken finance courses in a training school. Compound talents are needed in the society and I must study continually to keep abreast with the times.
Not for soft drinks. But we charge ten yuan for each alcohol order.
I hope so.You see, at the moment I find it difficult to get used to the teacher's speed and accent. I'm awfully worried, I can't reply as quickly as she seems to expect.
Great idea! I like authentic Chinese food.
OK sir, please wait a minute.
I'm sorry, but my sister was ill, so I
Hmm. Thank you very much.
Tango is my favorite. Anything but hip-hop or the foxtrot. ( the music has stopped )
I was wondering if you could help me use the Student Job Center.
I will, Michelle. Speak to you soon.
You don't want to join him?
Okey, Okey. We'll start from the Folk Collection Exhibition House, a multi-folk collection exhibition hall, where the best of local antique objects are on constant display. The hall itself used to be the site of a local club in the late King Dynasty, a well preserved piece of antique architecture itself. Academic research seminars and exchanges between domestic and international experts are often organized there.
Excuse me, Mr., Macmillan? Could you tell me the fax number for Mr. Winthrop ’ s office, please?
But the Brazilian is tougher.
Yeah. I'm still hungry, but I guess it's kind of rude to keep eating while he's talking, huh?
I think they sell both at the cafeteria.
I see. Is the telephone on the table good for outside calls?
Yes. I believe you have a luncheon meeting this coming Wednesday. Could you give me some more information about that?
In the north there are many cities which are very cold in the winter.Boston and Chicago are two of them.
It's a souvenir I bought for you from Rome.
No, no.... it's very hard to get lost. There are two lines, one that goes in a circle, the other that is straight. If you get lost, there are always subway attendants that can help you find your way.
I appreciate all help of you during my stay here.
You can park in the student parking structure.
Will you be getting more in.
What do you think a job means to you?
It's the same in my family. The coffee table in my living room is covered with copies of Fashion.
That ’ s a great idea.
I will be coming by around 10 this morning. If you aren ’ t there, I ’ ll just use my key.
what a shame! Didn't he realized that?
Yes, it's one of the main air pollutants. Factories don't emit it directly into the air. It's actually formed when nitrogen oxides and VOC emissions come into contact with heat and sunlight.
Oh, I see. Yeah. Some people like traveling, some don ’ t. My husband didn ’ t like traveling at first, either. He said what ’ s the use of traveling? A waste of money and a waste of time.At last I got him on the move. After all, he loved me. We went to Bali, Indonesia, one of the most beautiful places in the world. That trip left a very deep impression on him. Since then whenever we have holidays and money, we ’ d like to patronize the travel agency. Isn ’ t it a bit dull to shut yourself at one place all your life?
Yes, sir. How much would you like to remit?
How can I get to Lakeside Park?
I need to find a new place to live.
Sure. Here you are, $ 200, Thank you, please come again! Now It’s my turn to roll the dice.
You should not have criticize your son in front of his friends.
But the sale number is close to the predicted amount.
Not a problem. What time shall we call you?
Nothing much — the same old stuff. A lot of bad news as usual.
That's really not like him.
Do you need someone to drive you home?
How big, Alice? Last time you said that, I ended up working overtime 4 nights.
Next, you feed your dollars into the machine in the slot. Make sure they are smooth.
Well here. Help yourself to some shrimp. It's fresh.
You are right. The current equipment of our offices really falls behind. Next week, you can provide me a catalogue of new equipment.
I am in charge of the trading department.
Shall I make out a receipt?
Oh, that ’ s great. Thanks Grace. Can you give me her number? I ’ ll talk it over with Dan and give her a call tomorrow. Maybe this way I won ’ t be so tired every day, and Dan and I might even get to go on a date once in a while.
No, I'm not very good at it. I play just for the fun of it.
I don't know. Why don't you go ask for his autograph?
Yes, you need the traveler ’ s check but you needn ’ t get any foreign currency. You can have my US Dollars, I don ’ t need them.
That sounds boring to me.
Yes. From October lst we have to charge every passenger $ 5 for the airport tax.
Far more than that, I dare to say! Inland provinces and cities, Hong Kong and Macao, as well as many countries and regions in the world have an exhibition area of their own to display their unique flowers and plants. Each month there's a special day for a particular country or region, and folk performances are given. You will feel it a great pity if you missile Kunming Expo.
Oh dear. Well, if it has to be done, then it has to be done.
Will that be it?
It's too high. I can't reach it. Could you help me?
my pleasure, and have a good time!
You have not fulfilled your lease agreement yet.
That's a good idea.What time is good for you?
I was too excited to sleep last night. I didn ’ t go to sleep until quite late.
I dislike my roommate. He really turns me off.
Oh, such a variety. All of them are excellent both in color and flavour. No wonder our people like China ’ s tea better than any other kind. Could you give me some idea of the prices?
Indeed. I love the smell of the grass and trees. They certainly refresh my mind.
Keep in touch.
Perhaps it's the starter then?
OK, that's perfect! By the way, is there any playground in our neighborhood?
Yes. I wanna know where I can get on the bus going downtown.
Yeah, I worked as temporary staff in her concert. Look, her poster, a CD...
I thought you meant vegetables and meat when you asked me. Things like that. I don't have any vegetables.
Sure! My number is 626-555-1739.
I ’ d like to have the bed and the wardrobe.
Vince. We're both busy, so I'm not going to beat around the bush. I need a raise.
No, you don't have to spend every penny you make, you could save some every month, like a lot of other people do.
What are those. Miss Liu?
I'm sorry, but I can't go.
Well, DHL is famous for its speed and reliability. It is the fastest international postal service available. The document will arrive in two or three days.
Why? They are fine.
I don't think we can make it.
that's true.
Africa Airline 551 leaves at 9:00 pm.
Where are you going this weekend?
I would like to explain to you our financial position. The manufacture of machinery and its accessories and parts will consume both time and money. It takes five years to manufacture the machinery and we will have to advance the cost for the main machines to be produced, and besides this there are large sums to be paid to our subcontractors for the manufacture of the accessories and parts.
Is that the Japanese Restaurant?
Are you from Italy, Christina?
I was thinking of pizza or something else Italian, maybe.
Wow, that sounds great! Where are you going?
When were you born may I ask?
Well, I... I guess the weather. And the people. They were all very friendly to me.
Welcome to our company.
Hello, Mr. lie. I would like to discuss with you the feasibilities of establishing a joint venture with your company.
That seems alright. What's the exchange rate like today? Good or bad?
It sounds as if you have a virus.
Yeah, why don't you do that, and then you can give me a call sometime next week.
That's the Forbidden city on the north of Gate building.
Fine. I'll just get out the casserole dish, the saucepan, the salad bowl, and the baking sheet.
I have the same idea as you.
That's fine. All you need to do is fill in this form and state the amendment.
Is that Sue?
Yes, It’s creating mildew on the walls.
I like to stick to the clean stuff, like vodka, gin, white rum and other clear spirits.
Hello, Steven. Can you do me a favor?
Then you'll need small change.
I think watching them is a great way to learn English.
I can type 80 words a minute, basically no mistake, and can take dictation in English at 120 words per minute.
I'm going to visit some relatives here for several months.
We have been through this a million times! Let ’ s get going already! I ’ m ready!
It's full of violence and you are so young.
OK. I'll take your bet, as long as the winner gets to pick the movie. What about you, Nick?
I remember. What time do they need to be there?
You may withdraw the money at any time. You just need to present your deposit book.
Good. I wanna come with you.
What kind of soup would you like?
Are you free this weekend, Miss Rose?
One or two cubes will be OK.
Yes, speaking. What can I do for you?
Whoa, that ’ s a lot of cash! Let ’ s go to the course and see how Tiger Woods is doing.
Maybe a vanilla ice cream milkshake would be good. What's your favorite flavor?
Are you going fishing?
I had an accident.
I think so. Would you mind telling me the postage now?
200 yuan a week, but smoking is not allowed.
Let me help you make one this year.
How much are these mangoes?
Yes, we do, madam. Thank you, madam. Here's our welcome brochure with all the information of our facilities. My name is Johnny. If you need any help at all, do let me know. I'm at your service.
Is it ready to be picked up?
Yes. Yes. Can you tell me how to get there?
OK. Do you want to order something else?
Our dinner is ready.
Goodbye until then. I promise you that you'll do well after we meet.
I'll treat you dinner.
Where is the school cafeteria?
How about this red dress? I think it would really suit you.
Do you already have a foursome?
Damp it! How are you killing me with a single shot? It’s not fair! I don ’ t want to play anymore! Let ’ s go get something to eat.
Are you even glad that we get to buy new clothes too?
Then what do I need to do?
Thank you. Put the charge on my bills, please.
I'm sorry. Is that bicycle yours?
Hello, Sir. How can we help you today?
I'm afraid you've got the wrong extension.
Yes, I will. Thanks for your care.
Did you put this morning's faxes on my desk? I'm waiting for some urgent faxes from headquarters, I'm pretty sure they came in last night.
Do you know about All Fools ' Day?
Then he sent you to your home?
You should look it up on our computer.
The doctor sent me over here to have my blood drawn.
That will be my pleasure.
He's very strict with us.
Come on. For a man who's feeling so, down, there're usually two reasons. Either his career is going downhill, or he has a broken heart. Since you're so successful, it must be the latter.
Don't tell me that's your lunch?
Let me know with your next dance. I know a band that may give you a break for the publicity.
I saw that your Corollas are on sale.
The biggest city? The biggest city is Sydney, then it's followed by Melbourne and then Brisbane and then I think it's Perth. But most of the big cities are on the East Coast of Australia. And Perth is on the west coast, but sort of of out there by itself.
Remember when I used to beg you to break it so I could go buy ice cream?
I bet. But he is always busy telling the children stories.
Sorry, I've no idea.
Oh, I see. Then, can I buy slides and picture postcards somewhere?
I have studied carefully the information about your company on the internet and I have checked your company ’ s homepage. I am impressed by the company. And I like the products a lot. Since you ’ re growing steadily, I would be very eager to help you to improve your accounting system.
I was wondering if I could ask you some questions about a loan I want to make.
I will prepare your desserts and have someone bring you your drinks right away.
Ok, here is $ 50. Oh, can you make out an invoice for me?
I ’ m fine, thank you.
Good morning. I ’ m Mickey Huang, I have an appointment with Mr wilson.
No way. It’s her who should apologize.
Well, there are several reasons. I don't think my present job is suitable for me. That's the first reason. Secondly, your company has a good reputation. I think it can offer me more challenging opportunities. Last, frankly speaking, I wish to get higher pay.
I'll just buy the shirt.
OK, lovely boy. Try to be patient. Do you know the danger of swimming without warm-up?
Don't you have cheese?
We have 3 different types of boxes. We usually rent for 1 year and the fee depends on the size and location of the box.
He treats everyone pretty poorly, but the way he treats me really takes the cake!
You look very young. How old are you?
OK. Thank you very much.
OK, you mean the vacant one on the left?
Hey. Steven. You have a large chunk of money, but why do you still live in the old flat, instead of buying a new villa?
Just put it on the table please.
Well, I guess no one can help me but myself. For the moment, I just need someone to talk to so that I can relieve my stress.
I found a mouse in our house, a grown mouse running around the dinning room.
What an idiot!
That's true. Having a very serious boyfriend or girlfriend can be boring.
What will you do this vacation?
Would you like a super size meal? Only 2 RIB more, you'll get large coke and fries instead of medium. And today we are offering free toys all the meal boxes.
Why not take a picture?
the most difficult thing is being able to predict what other people will say. They will reply to your statements, but you can ’ t be sure how.
If there's one thing that bugs me, it's her critical attitude.
We aren't sure yet. Maybe L. A. I think L. A. would be the best idea.
Because he takes after you, he's got into trouble again.
oh, well, that's just a few minutes walk to my office, come around and see me now.
Good luck to you.
Let's get together this weekend.
All right. I go up to 115 yuan, but not a penny more. Is that acceptable?
I would know if I bought something that expensive.
Yes. When your friend gets it, he ’ ll sent the receipt which you send it by mail. then you can be sure he ’ s received.
We put many signs with English translations for foreign visitors.
OK, let me tell you what we ’ Ve been doing. We ’ Ve been in touch with the Wales and Scottish Tourist development offices here in Taiwan and they ’ re interested in working with us to promote their regions to the youth segment. We ’ Ve decided to implement an advertising campaign focusing on the excitement of the activities in those regions.
it was nice of your boss to give you an option. My boss would never do that.
Well. In that case, we will have to go to another restaurant. Thank you all the same.
It’s the felony charge.
I'm going to quit this job. It's way too stressful.
I don ’ t think that ’ s gonna cut it. I need something bigger and better!
Ok, here you are.
Wait a moment. It seems that your letter is overweight. Let me weight it.
But I always get tongue-tied when I see her.
Here's 20.
Where are we? Oh, here we are. So we drive to the A120 and turn left.
Very well sir. Would you like to have some shirts made also?
You are right. This is very good brand. It doesn't sag easily and we offer a lifetime warranty, so you don't have to worry about its quality.
What kind of car do you want?
Impossible. My pager is really old. It doesn't display messages.
Oh my gosh, that one says Temple City.
Hello, I need to get a cab.
This is our first day of class.It ' s better for us to introduce ourselves to each other. Who would like to begin first? Any volunteers?
It's a blue Nissan minivan.
I'm dreadfully sorry for you.
What ’ s your ideal job?
Great. Shall we go alone or as part of the group?
DENY? That's very expensive in America. It costs nearly $ 70 for only 50ml.
Sure. Now you are talking.
3,000 RIB per month.
Why don't you try and give it up?
Certainly. My phone number is 626-555-1739.
What's his problem?
You are welcome!
How ’ d you get that job?
What a lovely dog! How did you know I love this?
Well, this guy fell asleep on the sofa and when he woke up, half his face had been bitten off!
Yes, there's one other point I wish to clear up.
Hello, Daisy, how are you doing?
Go down this way until you come to the drugstore. Make a left turn and it's just there.
What did you want to drink?
Yes, we'll keep it for you. How many pieces of your luggage?
Ok, shall we go to Pizza Hut or Pizza Italia?
Where did you hit it?
Is there a Sunday edition of that newspaper?
What types of drugs can I try?
Yes, I have. But I have to wait.
Your front bumper is just as damaged.
I agree with you. Only in this way can we ease the traffic problems.
But it's really exciting.
Want to taste this dish?
I surely did! Ask the customer service counter if we can deposit our stuff there.
Oh, I'm hoping to take courses in my vacation.
You said it.No one can match Shakespeare in artistic talent.
It's very careless of me to have broken your glass.
Good. How about this picture of cranes with pine trees? It was painted by a famous Chinese painter in King Dynasty.
What is it like living in on-campus housing?
Could you point me toward the dishwashing detergent?
Well, my car won't start. I don't know what's the matter with it.
I don't have a fever, and I'm ready for my test.
There are many famous resorts in Egypt. You can have a good time here.
Oh, In what way.
Would you mind answering a few personal questions?
Hello, back already? That was quick!
Okay, then. What kind of newspaper he wants you to sell?
Can you take care of sending out a bulletin by e-mail to all the club members?
I'm sorry, but I can't find the book you lent me.
What if you had three more top-notch programmers to help you?
let's take a look at the menu so we can order. Do you want to choose an appetizer for us to share?
I said I want to ask about some of your information.
How much is the fine?
Sure. But you know that I can't read any Chinese characters. What do they say?
The machine gives you three attempts to enter the correct code and after that it assumes that you are not the real owner and confiscates it.
I'm afraid it's bad news for you. You haven't got the position.
Well, in that case, I think a checking account may be more convenient for you. However, there's a service charge.
I will do that. Meanwhile, could you give me an indication of the price.
This is for the delayed cancellation. Because this time is reserved for you. If you are unable to keep an appointment, you should notify us 48 hours in advance. Otherwise, the charge will be made.
It seems 10 degree below zero at least. I don't mind the cold weather, but do hate when it get slippery.
Have you ever dated a girl taller than you?
I don't know what you mean.
Maybe they have some good pie.
But baby girls are just as good and just as fun as baby boys.
That'll be fifty-five dollars and twenty cents.
what do we do first?
That's right. I think we all have much we can learn from each other.
Hi Ron, this is Kim at headquarters.
What about the Yen?
If we do, too many people might attend. Perhaps we should invited all of them, but make a small charge to attend.
Is a blood test painful?
My wife and me. The two of us.
But it doesn't have a turntable. I have a fair number of vinyl records, so I need something to play them on.
This facility is great, don't you think?
Harry. He has been assisting me on the plan.
Henry, do you know how much we spent this month?
Of course not!
I'd better not. Please don't tempt me. Please!
Quite well, thank you.
This is an exclusive design by marco! It’s a bargain at that price.
They could generally be divided into two categories
Good. I'm a regular customer here. I am glad you can make an exception for me.
We ’ ll be eight or nine people. Could we book a private room?
What's the address?
Yes. And what dances do you do best?
You are welcome at any time.
Hey, young man! I'm your sis. Don't talk to me like that.
What a pity. I wanted to go for a drink with you.
Well, I think you are very good at doing the dishes, so maybe you should do them for another week.
I'd like to talk with her.This is short notice, I know. But Hank and I are leaving tonight.
500 in twenty dollar bills and the rest in a dollar bills.
I don't want to have a specific title. I just want to enjoy what I am doing.
It's a football game the school team plays at home. The dance and reunions are usually that night, too.
That's a good idea. You are really creative.
I really can't say how long she'll be.
Exactly. But later on, he cares more about his career than love. Work seems to be the better all, and all for him-so much that he doesn't even grudge sparing a day out with me.
Of course I did. Did you?
That would be great! Is it expensive?
He plays outside right but it doesn't mean he has to stand on the right.
Do you want a shampoo?
To tell the truth, I don't like it. It's too fast.
Is that type of plant found in this country?
That's no problem. Could you please sign here? Here's the 1,000 RIB in cash, your passport back, and the remaining balance has been deposited in your account.
I'll speak to Bob, he'll be able to help us.
I thought this bus Went down Park Avenue.
That's very thoughtful of you. Thank you so much.
How do you like the play?
first, I ’ d like to know if you offer employees sick leave.
we've spent $ 1,000.
So, why haven't you visited me?
Most of the time that is what I prefer.
Wow, how exciting.
What are you so ticked off about?
Would you please fill in this registration form?
Do you want an IBM-compatible PC or a Macintosh?
Glad you like it. By the way, is this your first time to China, Mr. White?
They're 250NT each, but they're not edible. They're only used for worship.
She is indeed well. But she would not give anyone a tumble, you bet.
You seem to have it down. Have a good day!
No problem, this street is nearly built along the both sides of this street.there is stores, restaurant follow the style of tradition chinese building, the guest come there taste very traditional favorite dishes.
I think it's a piece of cake for you.
Oh, no. Everything we sell here is ‘ as is. '
No, not until your cable comes back on.
May I ask a question?
You seem to be a kind-hearted lady.
Did you want anything to drink?
Do you guarantee its quality?
I feel I work harder when I am under pressure.
How do you like New York city?
When I have some time, I like to exercise.
What position have you held before?
what do you consider your weakness?
No trouble at all. So long.
We always welcome new business. If you can give me the details of your former bank, including your account number we can begin.
I can't believe Mr. Fro didn't buy it. Who does that guy think he is anyway? Bill Gates?
Go to a voting booth and vote.
Sure, but I don't have hot water, yet.
Maybe you two should go see a marriage counselor.
I see. When did it start?
How long will I take it to get there?
There's no problem here, everything's in order. I can transact that for you now.
I did, too.Come and visit us again, will you?
Yeah, that would be fine. What time?
Thank you, Jack.To be frank, I'd rather forget my birthday.
Could you tell me your education background?
I think they are too far from the stage. I want two in row 6.
I used to buy lunch every day from the International food stall at school. Every day was an adventure!
Yes.These were always so many people.After taking the subway during the rush hour, you'll envy sardines in their cans.
Grangerfield! You were in Grangerfield? That's a completely different town! How could you drive to a completely different town?
Considering it wasn't what I ordered, it was still pretty good.
You ought to have worked harder then you wouldn't have failed your exams. You have to take a job and study.
Just give the man sitting there three yuan and he'll give you a ticket.
I tried to work something out, but I really do have to miss one class.
I park in the evenings.
What's your major in college?
That sounds nice. Do you want to share some kebabs as well?
It is already 10:25.
There are some stains that were left in the carpet.
If you like Sons, then I'm sure you'll love Whole Foods.
Oh, yes, I have. I worked part-time as a typewriter in a computer company when I was at college.
These machines aren ’ t very difficult to use. In fact, I quite like them. They are much faster than dealing with a band clerk.
I want to buy the toothpaste, the brand of Jiajieshi.
Oh, really. I like hot food. So what is your recommendation for me?
She's a lot like me.
the dinner was really good. It knocked my socks off.
20 is very colorful and feels nice. I'd like to start with it. Is it pure silk?
I'd like the double cheese burger meal, please.
I see. I will try my best to do the job well.
And even if it takes two hours, huh?
Of course. It's the tradition game in winter, and with good reason. Don't you like watching it?
Where shall we go?
Well. Let ’ s go swimming.
What else I ’ Ve got to do? Join the army?
Would you please take a seat over there? There are some interesting magazines on the coffee-table.
They managed a 99:80 victory.
The size of our order depends greatly on the prices. Let ’ s settle that matter first.
It's very dark in here.Will you turn on the light?
It's our wedding anniversary, honey. How can you forget about it?
Hey Jack. Are you excited about starting work?
Do you know a bus I can take from Altadena to downtown LA?
I brought Strawberry Sticks. See?
I think to get the business done, you should at least reduce the price by 20 %.
I would like to open an account please.
What are those stores?
we have plenty of postcards to choose from here. The same designs can be found on these posters.
Tom, you're my good friend, right?
I want 6420422 3, is that right?
This pamphlet shows you what restaurants and movie theaters have discounts.And twice every semester we will send you a new issue of the pamphlet.The Bucky Card has just started.Every couple months we have new businesses joining our program.It ' s a great way for students to save money!
Hi, yes, I have a reservation. My secretary called and booked a room a couple of weeks ago, the reservation should be for a double bed, none smoking room.
Yes it is. Thank you.
I think most people are a little nervous about it. I was really very, very nervous just before I had the operation, but the anaesthetist gave me an anaesthetic and the next thing I remember was waking up after the operation.
That's right. I know we have a complex system, but you have caught on so quickly.
Yes, yes. Here it is. By the way, is there a handling fee?
pompous. How may I help you?
Did you have a good holiday?
I know how it is. Moving is very troublesome.
I am calling to tell you some issues about the interview.
Hello Mr Janus. What can we do for you today?
What do you plead?
I don't know. Do you like snowing?
We must go to a dance soon, or we'll forget how to dance.
The water is causing mildew.
Not a bad idea.
Ben, we ’ re fifteen. What kind of job are you looking for?
Well, it's $ 12.
Good evening. Is the kitchen open now?
Mary, would you like to get something to eat with me?
Thank you, Mrs Smith. It is really a pleasure talking with you.
Yes. I'm going to give you some. Take one tablet of this medicine three times a day before meals. For that one, two tablets. And remember to come to the outpatient department for a consultation in two weeks, please.
Did you watch the live telecast of the World Cup last night?
You ought to have worked harder then you wouldn ’ t have failed your exams. You have to take a job and study.
That happens in many places. In my city, there is a very good drug rehabilitation program. The police and courts are also tough on people who commit crimes, but I don ’ t know if that ’ s the reason for our relatively low crime rate.
Do you like cooking?
Is it a big difference?
Sure. Just a minute. Let me take my camera out.
Hello. What can I do for you, sir?
How about this scarf, these earrings, and an anklet?
I ’ m awfully sorry to hear that. I ’ ll turn to it right away.
What's the matter with you, Paul?
Yes, you could be right. There is a lot to consider.
I can't, either. I like watching.
I feel sick.
Are you going to your office now, Miss Chen?
Perhaps I could ask my husband to teach them foot ball or some thing. He watches too much tv too.
Are you OK?
Why do you want to leave the company?
Hello, Pratt. How was your interview yesterday?
What do you think about our company?
I braked as hard as I could.
Not really. What are these toys over there?
Well, that's hard to say because there are so many good ones. I don't think I could pick a favorite.
Did the cops find out why he flew into the U. S.?
Then how do you like this plum red one?
Can I give you a lift home, Mrs. Word?
Our human resource department is working on it, it's not easy to recruit new employees every few month, it's hard to find qualified people.
It makes me feel rather shabby. That woman has a good taste in dressing, I would say.
You are attracted to her. That sounds great, but how do you know that it is a crush or it's real love?
I can handle that. I can operate word - processor, fax machine, photostat, and other office equipments.
I ’ m afraid what you were told is not quite right, if you could meet him in person, and you ’ ll know he ’ s very agreeable and capable.
I'm feeling wonderful.
I will always have you come in for a discussion if there is a major problem.
Hi! Do you know what's for dinner? I'm starving!
What dates are you planning on taking off? I ’ ll need at least two months notice, so that I can plan for your absence.
We ’ ll send someone right up. But don ’ t worry about that. Maybe the service person forgot to do it.
I hope my starting salary will be 3,000 yuan a month if I become a formal worker.
There's many books here.What about these?
I thought the movie about a serial killer who rapes and mutilates his victims would be a good choice.
I think we just need to build more roads. Then there would be more space for cars to drive and we ’ d have fewer traffic jams.
Does everyone usually show up for your family reunions?
They're small fry. Tonight I'm going to LA to negotiate with Stars.com. That'll be big.
Hello, this is Mike, Kara.
Do you have a bed?
You must have got many useful things for your new apartment.
Yes, I finished last Friday.
Okay, I'll do it next time.
most people are working Friday night, so it's going to start around 9 pm.
Well, that sounds like it would be OK. Just be careful.
Are you able to follow him?
It must have really hurt afterwards.
OK, I want you to be happy when we are together, and when you are sad, I would always stay with you.
Really? We would like to start you off at 2,000 yuan a month, excluding bonus and overtime pay.
Get this prescription filled and go straight to bed.
I will send a squad car to your house right now.
Just pick something and get the hell out of here.Um, I'll go with these two.This is mortifying. I just want to get this over with.She better thank me for this...
I think our child is going to love it!
Yes. I'd like to swap some of my peanuts for your chips.
that doesn ’ t sound like a great present.
So do we. Certainly it's a step forward on your side. But the gap is still too wide.
Oh yeah, when I do that, it hurts a lot more!
It’s too old. And it isn ’ t as specious as I expected.
No, because my English wasn't very good. I studied English for two years first.
We are very glad to hear that. We are sure that there will be a bigger market for our products in this country.
Yeah, I noticed. She must be really loaded.
Great idea. And after all, that's the whole point of an evaluation. I almost can't wait to give it a try.
Are the children all grown up now, Rose?
Maybe we did miss our stop.
Well, maybe you are right. We'll be more amused in a tram or a double-decker than on the subway.
Well. You see, I don ’ t like the office. I don ’ t like the staff. And I ’ m afraid of you. And I don ’ t want to go one. So may I put info a transfer?
Can we have the bill now?
Let's see. Yes. You ' Ve got quite a high temperature.
It's really cold. It snowed all day and the schools closed early.
Lindsay Tipping gave me your name as a reference. We are considering hiring her as an editor for our magazine.
Oh. Thanks a million.
I know it is no good for my health if I am staying in the classroom all day. But how about my paper?
Yes, of course. Here it is.
It seems you got here at good time. Do you have a bus schedule?
Yes, I agree with you.
What am I going to do?
Certainly, just a moment, sir.
Is it hot in summer?
Hello, Mrs.White! I'm Anne.
when are you going to give me those brochures?
Good morning, I am Monica. Are you Mr. White, the manager of finance department? I am the newcomer and also working in the finance department.
don't mention it.
Do you have some points to bring up?
I'm sorry, but I can't.
It's crunch time, isn't it? I wasn't nervous before the meeting, but now I am.
Yeah. This is a clever way to be in contact with such a person.
Uh, let's keep this going, shall we?
The teacher just canceled the test.
Quite good. Excuse me, are there any places of interest?
Don ’ t worry about that. It’s probably of the stress you ’ Ve been under. Just take some aspirin. Combined with the stronger cough medicine, it will make you feel very tired. You shouldn ’ t work or use any equipment which requires concentration. If I were you, I ’ d just sleep, read a book, or watch TV. Here is your prescription.
I ’ m so lucky. You only get a chance like this once in a blue moon! Thanks honey!
Hey, Mary, what's up?
I learned from your ad.That you will provide on-the-job training for new employees.This is just what I need, because I'm a recent college graduate. I have the necessary knowledge and skills but I lack experience.
No. He's so far away I can hardly see him! Let's keep eating!
And your parents took it badly?
Hurry up! Hurry up! What lovely caterpillars are over there!
My child is often absent-minded in class.
Our class doesn't have enough money. We already checked into it.
Read me the index number!
Look, maybe I shouldn't tell you this, but I'v going over to WebTracker, too.
Ok. I should have it finished by Friday afternoon. Then I can check those account over the weekend. We need to have them finished by Monday, right?
Are the reports favorable?
You'd better give up smoking. It's bad for your health.
I can help you with that.
I'll say! Sometimes they just do things really differently. But one thing I can say, they are really hospitable.
Sure, I'd love to. I heard Sichuan cuisine is very hot, I think I definitely love it.
Do you want me to take a look?
Oh, there is a car exhibition tomorrow afternoon. I have two tickets. Would you like to go there with me?
Our company is going to do some cutbacks soon.
I ’ m fine. Thank you.
Yes. I'd like a cup of onion soup.
Alright. What do you want to do now?
Well, I guess we're all set for another merry Christmas.
It's hard to say. The stock market is weird. You never know what will happen tomorrow.
Definitely. you know, I'm into serious sport in a big way.
was it very old house?
Oh, that's good. I guess the caddies were pleased.
Could you fill out this registration form, please?
A debit card will be fine.
Have you chosen the material?
Have you decided on something?
Oh, that's 39 dollars and 95 cents. It's on the sale at the moment.
Do you mean this Saturday?
Where is that at?
That's coincidence, someone's just returned two tickets and I picked them.
Sorry to hear that. I think it's even better than On the Golden pond.
The person I ’ m voting for is the best.
No, no. That's too big a number to be acceptable. Let's put it at 450 pieces. And we'll strive to sell more, of course. We wish to add another clause. For every 50 pieces sold in excess of the quota, we'll get 1 % more in commission for our efforts.
Done. So how long do we bake it for?
What's your son's name?
Could you fill in this form, please?
What was the most important thing you have learned at work?
But the child has his own feeling.
We have another traditional holiday-the Dragon Boat Festival.
Operator. May I help you?
How do you do, Mr. Brown? It’s a pleasure to get to know you.
Jack, I hear you got promoted.Is that true?
Of course. How're you?
So if we did allow the laboring force to go home early, how many people are we talking about?
Yes. I ’ Ve sent letters to several banks. A few have invited me for interviews after we take our examinations.
That ’ s what I thought. I just thought I ’ d ask you and see what you thought of it. Anyway, what did you do yesterday evening?
Thank you so much, Mr. Sandals. We look forward to seeing you!
Well, think about it. We are a society that is always on the go, not because we have to, but because we want to.
Is Malibu beach nice?
You are blue in the face, arn't you?
Yes, very much. Which one is the latest?
Canada, china, and the use are huge too.
I know. I already tried to register for it by phone, but the computer won't let me.
Since you asked, would you pick up my medicine from the pharmacy?
It is so hard to prevent them from being stolen. I also got something this morning.
Why don't you phone her for a date again?
Now you are with Quandong Company. What is your chief responsibility there?
Come on in this afternoon and we will talk. It will be fine!
This is for internal use. Two tablets, four times a day.
What's the expiration date on your card?
I am sorry, but you need a receipt for a refund.
But you have had lily already? You should have told me about her, but you didn't.
I don ’ t think that there is any easy way. The united nations could send peacekeepers into the country. At least then the warring parties could be forced to negotiate. The thing is to find the real pro
I'm sorry. According to the regulations, a passenger can only take two bottles on to the aircraft. So you cannot take so many.
That's what I want.For exercising at the club. I can even spend 100 dollars on them. I don't care.
I'll do with the cake.
Do you know what kind of beef you want?
There is mildew.
If Barcelona had played as they normally do, they should have won.
There are so many places around. Take a look at the advertisement.
I'll try it right now.
what kind of qualities do you look for in your friends?
Would you show us the menu?
Mr. Simpson, if you are free, how about a lunch?
Did you see who the suspect was?
That's amazingly low for such a huge accident!
Do you know which account you want to take the money from?
No. They are not only ornamental, but also useful.
Well. Thank you for coming.
What kind of shoes?
You, too. Thanks for your help.
Why don't you try smoking one cigarette less each day? How many do you smoke each day now?
Will it exfoliate the skin as well?
Really? What kind of shoes are they?
But they can see my resume. It's all in there.
Only ten percent of taxes included in the bill.
Yes. Did you know that the senior class president works for the class for life? The job doesn't stop when we graduate.
This is my admission card, and these are the books.
I am glad to see everyone is here and on time. Let's get started! Susan, toss out some of your ideas.
Oh, I know. I saw you doing pull-ups one time on the campus and some students trying to imitate you.
The market is fairly down right now, so the offer is a realistic one.
But don't forget you are in a cafe.
Have you got a scholarship, or are you on your own?
No, I've deliberately kept a balance between various exercises ; parallel bars, push-ups, sit-ups, bunny-hops, five-kilometer run, and so on. I alternate them over the weekdays. Sometimes, when I find myself in a bad state, I will simply idle about in the park.
Thank you for your information, we can hold more talks later on business details.
No, and I haven ’ t done anything out of the ordinary.
What kind of Italian food do you like?
Certainly! The first thing is to be honest about how much time for you can devote to your pet. Dogs are very demanding. You need to take them for walks and they love to play. Cats, on the other hand, are more independent.
Jane, I was wondering if you you had any plans for saturday afternoon.
Fine, thank you. There be five of us. The rest will be along shortly.
Yes, I'd like another cup of coffee afterwards. Make it hot, please.
Don't rub it in. Where am I going to put this huge thing?
Is this your first semester?
OK. What are your strong points?
We have a fairly good working relationship, but there was also a rough spot.
Soda isn't good for you.
Any place will be fine. you make the decision.
Is it urgent? Would you like the express service?
I am calling to find out why I didn ’ t receive an unemployment check this week.
Great and white! Which reminds me, let's pick up some heavy duty sunscreen!
I graduated with honors. I had a 3.9.
Thank you for the invitation. I'll be very happy to go.
Sure. You know, we spend most of our time at home or in the office every day, so I receive handset calls with the hand-free telephone, so I need pay little for receiving calls.
Of course, you can.All you need is a little help and a lot of practice.
So how do you develop good relationships in the office?
That's too much!
Actually, you do owe some fees.
Tim, in Room 1021.
Well, speaking of history, let's get back to the books.We ' Ve got an exam tomorrow, remember?
I am preparing a birthday party for Julia.
What's her figure?
Here you are, officer.
What's your unloading port, please?
Will traveling be required in this position?
"I said, "" Is there anything I can do? """
I see by your resume that you have been working?
Yes, how can I help you?
Of course. You didn't have to ask me.
He is really clear on what you need to learn to get a good grade. Are you willing to study hard?
I haven't gotten started on my room yet.
Finally, at the end of the interview, make acknowledgments to the interviewer again.
I was watching the news a little earlier. They said it's probably going to snow tomorrow.
I only want it for the kitchen. I like to listen to the news at breakfast time.
This is Jim. He is our office assistant.
Believe me. I will get up and get ready in five minutes.
You have many trees in your country. That ’ s another natural resources.
My grand grandfather was a merchant who ran a small business. He couldn't afford to send my grand father to school.
Very quiet and safe. And It’s got a lot of trees and plants.
Is this supply?
Don't worry. It would be back again a little later.
Yes, we have an excellent retirement plan and medical insurance as well.
Be careful of the peeler. Don't cut your fingers.
Sure, I'll sit right here.
I would like to make a withdrawal.
The climate here is pleasant.
Oh, I don ’ t know... It’s hard to find the right nanny. You have to consider her previous work experience, the responsibilities you give her, and how she interacts with the kids. I would love to have someone to help me out, though.
How should I do?
What do you recommend?
It's about time.
Does that mean you ’ re not going to take the train to work anymore?
then we will follow this path down the hill to the old church.
Don't worry. I won't.
Have you ever suffered from airsickness before? You're probably airsick.
I love them, too. Let's move into the kitchen. Wait until you see the refrigerator.
Yes. That's what we want.
Ok. I ’ m pretty happy and I can go abroad.
All superstitious nonsense! I would still like to go to one and see what he or she has to say, just for kicks.
How and in whose name has the reservation been made?
Twelve.He ' s very sensible for his age.
I usually get my Chinese food from Panda Express.
It’s quite large. It’s about 40 square meters.
Yes. I worked at AB Company.
Ok, so, maybe I should call her again.
I never understand the meaning of those painting. They are too abstract for me. I didn ’ t pay much attention in art class at school.
I broke my sister's mirror. I'm sure it'll get her back up. I really don't know how I can escape the punishment.
Let me check. It has a paper jam.
That sounds good!
Sure, the Huanghe carp with sugar and vinegar is famous in our restaurant.
I have a real problem when I meet people.
So it was interesting for me to see parents very concerned about education.They would come to me after the class and ask how their son or daughter was doing. I don't think that's a bad thing. I think it's a good thing.In America, too many parents don't pay attention.
Perhaps. I'm dead tired.
It's beautiful here.
She was great. In today ’ s class, she gave us a lecture on how to be a good student. She told us not to arm for exams, and to pay more attention on communicating than memorizing.
thanks. Who much would that come to?
Oh. I am sorry, here you are. May I suggest our lunch special?
I agree that it was bad service, but I heard one of the other waiters mentioning that it was our server's first night on the job.
Now that you mention it, I'm getting a little bumed-out from studying nonstop, too. Listening to some music for a while would suit me just fine.
I wouldn't lie about something like that.
I'm afraid so, yes.
I'm ready to place an order with you, but only one condition that the goods are confined to Australia. Can you do that?
Indeed. Is there anything I need to do before I collect it?
Yes, and I want to have a try.
We would like to start you off at 1,500 yuan a month, not including bonus and overtime pay. We don ’ t give bonus every month, but we offer a semi-annual bonus. And you will receive two weeks paid vacation a year, as well. Does it suit you?
It seems that you can e-mail the seller and ask questions.
Danger, danger! The exits have been sealed and the doors will remain locked in until the local authorities arrive. Thank you for using our bank. Have a nice day.
Come on, Nancy. Play it cool. I go with you and burn the middle night oil tonight.
Certainly, do you have your school schedule? The books are arranged by course number and instructor.
Yes. I've prepared the contract just so that you understand everything.So that you understand the terms.
Yes. That would be fine.
That sounds like a plan.
Quite a few people are laid off these days.
You collect them yourself? I think that you are just doing the wholesale.
Do you want me to check the tires?
To be honest, I like most of them, except for my Chinese teacher. She is quite young, but her class is too boring!
Ok, well, we're going to make a pan of lasagne, a salad, and some garlic bread. Here's the recipe. Do you want to get the ingredients we need out of the cupboard?
Yes, are you Mr James?
I'll never ever work together with him!
Yes, here you go. And sign here?
Thank you. I ’ m leaving tomorrow morning.
Would you like to introduce me to Mr.Johnson?
I know, but another pair can ’ t hurt.
Yes, that's the place to go to get healthier food.
I'm glad you enjoyed the city, anyway. But please don't think too unkindly of us.
Oh, I've been fine, but I'm having some trouble with my son.
Make sure that you transfer the utilities to your name and tell them when you will be moving in.
All right. Just relax, OK? Go and got a cup of coffee.
Pretending to know when you do not know may expose yourself to ridicule.
Have you brought your certificates as well?
Thank you for your reminding.Yes, please have it dry cleaned.
I hear you, sir. Nonsmoking. Now, about the bed, is a queen-size okay?
My children can never be obedient even if I criticized them severely.
Well, not so far from New York. So what about you? Did you grow up here?
No, she isn't. My girlfriend hates red.
Well, when you see the blue spots with the handicapped logo, do not park there unless you have a special permit. Are you going to be parking in the daytime or the evening?
I can't agree with you. She's pretty, but she always blows hot and cold.
A road bike features skinny tires and a light-weight frame. Its riding position puts you bent over the handlebars. It's not particularly beefy in construction, and generally, it won't stand up well under heavy loads or on really rough surfaces. In contrast, mountain bikes have wide tires and a stout frame. You sit higher on them and don't have to hunched over.
I like the kid. He's so lovely.
That ’ s a good point. Car owners will probably be against it, but people who use public transport will be in favor of it.
Yes, it's a great job. I love it. And what do you do?
Yeah, me too.
How did you pay them?
I bought it when I was on vacation in Nepal.
I'll talk to you later.
Hello, Tom. I'm really glad to meet you here.
You ’ ll have to buy your own ticket though.
I'll sing a Chinese folk song Love song of Hanging, first in Chinese then in English.
It's unfair.
Not at all. Please sit down, then we can begin.
Which country do you want to go to?
You voted, right?
Until Monday or Tuesday next week.
Is it the battery?
yeah, feels like yesterday. Now I ’ m almost settled down here. We ’ re planning to buy an apartment and tie the knot.
Me, either! Who decides how much money we get?
Maybe they forgot to attach it to the letter. You should give them another call.
Yes, what's it?
No idea. We've enjoyed both the natural scenery and the city sights. What else is there to see?
Of course. Take your time and enjoy your trip.
I've got something. You saw Taylor Smith? Looks terrible, doesn't he? I heard he...
It suits my taste, I'll take it. Do you have lighters?
Have you travelled to many other countries?
Let's click to check it out.
Yes, it is. Oh, by the way, could you also bring me today's paper?
Hi, George. I'm going to have a job interview next week. Could you give me some advice?
Yes. What's the maximum amount that you are allowed to have in an overdraft?
No, it is not meningitis. Just a high fever and convulsions, which results from a virus upper respiratory tract inflection.
Could you lend me one?
That's good! I've also heard there will be a party held by the Students ' Union tomorrow evening. Would you like to go with me tomorrow night?
Oh, right, I hear they have a lot of this kind of problem down there.
I hate to make you work through your lunch break with how busy you are...
Excuse me. I'd like to check out, please.
Who ’ s Peter?
Well, hopefully she'll give me my invite later on today.
My goodness! It’s the afternoon? Doesn ’ t the time fly! Do come in and sit down.
Thank you. Here is a copy of the Tour Guide Certificate of mine.
Can you drive me? I will go to Ann's house. It isn't far. I can call the theater guild from there and give them her number.She will let us wait in her living room.
May I work in sales department?
If there are bacteria in your urine, it could mean an infection somewhere.
I had high hopes for NYU.
Honey, could you help me operate the VD player? It can't play.
I'm not sure. Let's look up the catalogue.
Yeah, it's right in the parking lot.
So the time for the total journey is about...?
My name is Sun lin.
Do we have a 401K?
I'm sorry, sir, but I'll have to give you a ticket.
My washing machine isn't working.
When were you Bron may I ask?
Is this one suit for you?
No, we don't do that here. We recycle polyethylene and we make it into other products.
It's very kind of you to come and see us off.
Sure. We also would like to use the chairs from the lunchroom. Would that be OK?
For one thing, sir, the quality of the image is usually better.That ' s because it's digital.
Yes, they confirm your appointment. Please come in. It is on the 3rd floor, room 3106. You can take the right elevator as the left on is in maintenance today.
We're on our own tonight. Dad's taking mom out.
Yes, It's only eight forty. Thanks so much!
Here you are. We've ironed them for you already. Please check and see if there is any damage.
Greg. I want to speak to you for a minute.
taking a yoga class or learning some relaxation techniques can help you cope with your stress.
Thank you. Hey, do you know how espresso got its name?
Let's go to the snacks section. I want some chocolate and sweets.
5 000 yuan per month.
I ’ m thinking about buying this sweater. I know It’s june now, but it will be perfect for autumn and winter.
A lot of things. There is a part about how old people should accept being old and stop feeling restless. You really should read it.
Without traffic, it takes about an hour.
Yes. Oh, dear, I can ’ t find my hairbrushes. Can you help me?
Here's the hotel.
Well, I had to wait until the lease expired. So...
It's a new disk.
No, you also need a boarding pass.
Oh, I don't want to trouble you.
Maybe I could help.
I'll have a sandwich and small fries. Would you like to have some desserts?
Yes that ’ s right. I ’ Ve always enjoyed studying. My friends say I ’ m a bit of a bookworm, but my father always pushed us to succeed school.
Of course, what's the problem?
Sure, no problem. I'll ring to have a city tour.on sunday morning we can go to the Great Wall, then we can go to the summer palace in the afternoon. In the evening we can have typical dinner in restaurant in Beijing. Quanjude, a restaurant serving roast ducks. However if you don't like above trips, we can go some famous places outside of Beijing.
I had fun also and was wondering if you would like to go hiking with me in the mountains on Saturday.
I don't know. I mean, I like helping the community and all that, but I don't know if I have the time...
The food there is wonderful.
I haven't gone to the interview yet. It's tomorrow. I am so nervous.
The company will have to choose a good advertising firm.And then there's the problem of quality.How do we convince American buyers that our quality is good?
What sort of response time do you guarantee?
I ’ d rather you didn ’ t, Miss Yang. I ’ m very busy now.
It seems to me that you are on very good terms with him.
Passport and disembarkation card, please.
No appetite, always on edge, and I can't sleep well.
It's really great to see you again. How about a drink tonight?
Mmmm... that does sound interesting. Is there anyone available I can talk with about this in more detail?
I really should be on my way.
Yes, I packed it myself, and it hasn ’ t been out of my possession.
Is there any chance of a lower price?
What are you talking about? It wasn ’ t more than a month ago that you were rambling on about how you are tired of living the life of a bachelor and how you envy your friends that have a family!
he asked me out to a dinner tonight. How about joining us?
You're a very good player
OK, let's see what the damage is. The total for our meal is $ 36.00.
It's a great honor to have you here, Mr.Brown.
You would like me to send this to all managerial staff? I'm sorry, sir, could you please clarify? Who all is included in managerial staff?
Yes. I dare say it will be.
Oh, wow, that's cool. Um, why do people keep pets?
That's right. Do you think it'll be cold?
Sorry, I forgot to mention that I don't like horror much, either.
It is a position in your Maintenance Department. Is it available?
Okay. Thank you very much.
It can record any sound that's within about 8 feet of the camera.
Have you considered upgrading your system?
Morning, Meg. You look not well today? Are you ill?
Oh, of course.
Good morning, may I help you?
Please don't forget to say good-bye to the rest of the family for me.
Well. I am afraid it will be difficult for us to advance the time of shipment. Our manufacturers are fully committed at the moment.
Well, I ’ ll have tea by myself. That was quick! Have you finished already?
Honey, it's good if you spend money to buy more books. But $ 100 dollars a week is enough for you already.
You actually need to catch two buses.
I have an appointment for half past one.
Which bus do I have to change?
Can we walk there?
I will be there for three years.
They're setting up the machine for a new run.
Would Tuesday or Wednesday be best for you?
Yes, here they are. This is my ID card. This is my diploma. And this is my certificate for nurse qualifications.
This is Lamely.
Okay, I'll see you later.
How about 560-436-8976?
I am terribly sorry. There must have been some mistakes. Let me check it again. Oh, yes, there is a name listed as Tommy Bush. It must be the fault of the clerk who registered your name. I apologize.
I've already started.
My mobile phone, passport and some cash.
That bus goes all the way to LA?
Quite a few actually. By the way, after the play, there's always a big party for the cast and their friends. My friend has invited us. Do you want to go?
Well, I'll consider the possibility. By the way, when do I open the L / C if I want the goods to be delivered in June?
Oh really? What did you do?
I see. Do you have any ideas so far?
Is 12 o'clock convenient for you?
Cool phone. What kind of phone card do you want?
Are there any potatoes?
At ten o'clock on the morning of next Sunday. We have invited all our relatives to the wedding.
Not at all. I see you and your family twice a week, and I enjoy seeing my own friends. I ’ m too busy to feel lonely!
Julia, look at me! I'm gaining weight. How could I lose weight? Do you have any good ideas?
Neither. The game ended in two all.
Oh, but I really need to leave this town for a change. Working day after day has worn me out. Do you have any other suggestions?
Hang on, I haven't finished yet.
I have budget $ 25 per Peron per day for food expenses. That totals another $ 800. And for other incidentals, like take fees, and tips, I have estimated about $ 400.
Hi Linda, this is Todd.
I only need a single room.
I'd like to talk with you again about what happened.
You must have left it somewhere.
Oh. I guess you get what you pay for. How long did you stay there?
Just fine.Are you busy now?
If you can't give me the full amount, a fraction of it would still help. I'll pay you back on Monday. I promise.
I can, but not as well as I'd like to. I'll be studying Chinese until the day I die!
This is today ’ s schedule. At 8 thirty AM, conference with the department managers. At 9 o ’ clock, live for the workshop where you ’ ll award prizes to the staff for preventatives.
I'm really sorry, Bob. I accidentally damaged your bike.
I will make full use of the chance and get myself ready for the challenges all the time.
It's snowing outside.
Do you mind helping me?
It was a charge for a $ 350 purse that I never bought.
Yep, you've got it! What should we do?
certainly. After all, I've been here for two years. It's not much uphill work for a foreigner to get used to Chinese dinner utensils. Though, I do feel hazy about how to behave appropriately at a Ch
Do you want to have a tub bath, surfing bath or shower?
Yes, The SARS epidemic is not under effective control yet. So I'd better not risk it.
You are going to be a father.
so, what do you think about the place? Are you glad that you moved in?
We got off too early, didn't we?
Do you have any textbooks to help improve students ' reading skills?
I ’ m going to cancel the fees you owe.
I'm standing in front of an exquisite work of art!
It's been a long time, hasn't it? How are you?
Yes, I need some traveler's checks.
You taught at a local school for a year, right?
do you mind if I sit here?
You know. The one with the silly art about how advisements have jump up and down.
What kind of house is it?
That's smart. I'm going to start doing the same thing.
How many chances have I given you, I've given up on you.
So he always sits above the salt when there is a seminar about it.
How do you usually spend your time after work?
I'm sorry, Mr. Baker is not in. May I take a message?
That ’ s ok. I should have told you earlier. This is a company rule.
Tell me about it! We drank everything in the bar!
What! For being a couple of hours late? You have to be kidding!
Exactly! I ’ m going to cut out all that junk I eat, no more chips, no more soda, no more fried food.
Yes, I did. But I couldn't communicate with them in English.They speak only Spanish.So I need your help.
Don't worry. I'm patient, but vengeance will be mine.
Almost, let me just put my apron on.
What took so long? I thought your flight was supposed to arrive 3 hours ago!
It was very kind of you to give me a tour of the place. It gave me a good idea of your product range.
Yes, that's a Current-all-in-one Passbook. That's what you need to get your salary.
It starts at $ 30,000. S
Would you do me a favor?
yeah, Jenny and I got married right after graduation. It was tough the first years trying to make ends meet. I was supporting us both while she continued her studies. But now things are getting better
Sorry, sir, my mistake. This is your parking space.
We're going to pay by check.
What day did you have it scheduled for?
Thanks. We need the products in less than one month, because we have a big deal with another company. By the way, will payment against delivery be OK?
It's moving so slow.
Don't you think it's a bit bright?
I have learned English for 10 years, and I have passed College English Test Band 4 and 6.My spoken English is fairly good enough to express myself fluently.
To be honest, I'm starting to wonder if it's worth it.
Which hotel are they staying at?
Oh, how dreadful! I ’ m ever so sorry.
That ’ s it for today.
OK. It's 22 yuan
All right. Your name, please.
How about seconds, Victor?
How about this one? It smells like green tea and is our best seller. Try it.
No, I don't recall a thing about them.
What do you think of doctor Thompson?
Ok then, let ’ s get the chicken feet.
How about tomorrow afternoon?
This is Sue from work.
How much is a one-way ticket?
It was really hard for our parents to save money when they were young.
Thanks for calling, Blanca. I'll see you tomorrow.
How's life going, Zhang Lin?
Yes, let's do it now.
Great. We have a very pleasant working condition and I think we have a fine staff to work with.
Who, Femi? Yeah, Yi-jun saw her inside.
But I'm a new student here. I thought maybe there was some way I could get into the class. I thought I should come and talk to you in the department office.
I'm not sure, but I think so. I'm very exhaust but I can't sleep.
You must have had a great time.
It's time to make our wedding wish come true...
We have an hour-long lunch break form 12 to 1. we can take coffee breaks during the day. My boss doesn ’ t mind, as long as we get out work done on time.
Oh, I hope he didn't notice me.
Senior director of market research. In addition to a nice pay rise it has some nice perks, like a company car, one month paid vacation, and an apartment downtown. And it's an international company so I'll have lots of chances to travel and meet new people. I'm really looking forward to it.
Mary, how was your date with john?
Oh, I've forgotten to tell you. The party is held every other week. And every family gives their own performance each time.
Is there anything I can do for you?
Oh, I love the roof tiles on Spanish style houses.
Are you joking? What am I going to do with you? We are going to a dinner party not the beach! Wear the shirt with the silk tie I bought you and these corduroy pants. It’s chilly outside so you can wear this coat.
Does anyone need a drink?
We appreciate your business, Ma'am.
Isn't that a silly question? You know how much of an athlete I am.
Well, I'm glad I had a chance to see these samples, but I'm really not in a position to make a decision right now.
Who is the author?
Well, some of those other guys are not the same kind I'd like to communicate with, but if that's important to you. I'll try to get along with them.
I'm so glad to meet you.
Hello there. Is there anything I can help you with?
It's my honor to be one member of your company. I'd like to begin to work any time as you like.
Let me show you. We have six colors
OK. I am hungry, too. I like their milkshake. They're very creamy and tasty.
Oh, really? Give me a clam soup.
How do you know there was a break-in?
Yes, that'll be just fine.
Do you live with your family?
I know. But I'd like to try. Look, here are some advertisements that I've cut out.
Hi, what can I get for you?
It sounds good. I'll take that.
I have a sweet tooth.
Sorry, I am not sure. Can I take a message?
Thank you for the invitation.
It's delicious.
I still like the olive one best. There's a tailor here who can take up the sleeves for you.
Certainly sir, For which day and time please?
The brand name and the nice artwork need not be changed, but the net weight must be placed on the lower part of the panel.
Could you show me how to operate this fax machine? I am going to receive some urgent fax from a company.
Let me see. I can come out and see you first thing Wednesday.
Yeah, it is a tough call. Each one has its pros and cons. Are you looking for a sedan?
I know a few extensions but I don't know them all.
No. Well, I don't know.But Taiwan is so crowded. Don't you miss life in America?
Well, why don ’ t you come tomorrow? I ’ ll stop by your house on my way out.
Dad, can you lend me some money?
Come on, you can't be serious! We should never give in to terrorist's demands, otherwise where would we be?
Yep. It's the kickoff of the barbecue season. We're invited to a grill party in the park tomorrow.
I'm glad to hear that. In case he's not insured, the hospital will never accepts any patient.
What about the foreign bank?
The people have spoken.
Good-bye. See you again sometime.
Thank you, I'm coming down now.
I want to know whether you can handle the matters of registered permanent residence.
Yes. We can do something else if you like.
At 13:15.
Right. Let's go out and enjoy the beautiful natural scenery.
Yes.Let ' s start today.
Do you mean it? I'd love to!
You should be optimistic about this. Things have taken a good turn. You should remember that less than two centuries ago the dangers of train travel seemed similarly terrible.
Okay. Don't forget to call Susan.
Most of them in this store are from Mexico.
Yes, but the offer ended yesterday. I'm sorry.
I told you the truth. According to the contract, if you fail to honor the contract, we are entitled to cancel it.
I have to tell you something else that you probably won ’ t like.
Got it. Thanks for calling. Bye.
Shall we go to the Tiananmen Square first?
Look at this one. It's our biggest pan.
Right.Can I compensate for the damage with the travel accident insurance?
I couldn't agree more. Actually, I'm a Beijing Opera fan.
excellent choice. I love its smooth flavor.
Excuse me, I would like to know something about this campus. Right now it seems very big and confusing! I have no idea where I am going or what I am doing.
Can I check this one out?
The price is 60 euro per day. Do you want insurance?
¥ 200 a day or ¥ 1200 a week, unlimited mileage.
Which kind of salad are you going to make?
I'm going to get a Snickers or a Kit Kat.
Absolutely! Everything that ’ s thrilling turns me on.
Very well. I hope you ' ll enjoy your stay in America.
I wonder what he looks like. Oh, I can't wait to see him! His email said he'd be wearing a white hat. ( looking around for him ) oh, there he is.
Thank you for your understanding sir. I will book your flight now.
If I want, I can protect myself by paying through an escrow account, which holds the money until I receive the item.
Well, I haven't been eating well, I guess. I usually only have enough time to grab a sandwich and a cup of coffee for lunch.
I simply couldn ’ t help giving him the fish-eye when I knew all that.
Generally speaking, food items are difficult to import. Food with the short shelf life is liable to spoil in the time it takes to ship from one place to another. The only food items we import are specialty canned or preserved foods. The shelf life is longer for these products.
Is it possible to change to another room?
Tell me about your brother and sister, Sue.
You ’ re welcome, ma ’ am. I ’ ll call you when they ’ re ready.
I'll pay attention to my handwriting next time.
I think it will take about four hours, including breaks.
Then, what's special tonight?
why didn't you do a good job?
I know. It’s always nice to have some closure, but I don ’ t think you ’ ll have a problem finding another girlfriend.
Did you hear Peter just retired?
Kelly, the guys and I think you should run for senior class president.
Yes, that looks great! Is it on our Open House list?
What was the reason for your call?
But you know that smoking does harm to health, right?
I was. It’s just that the holidays are coming up and I won ’ t be able to home because I can ’ t afford the airfare. I ’ m just longing for some of the comforts of home, like my mom ’ s cooking and being around my family.
Down the hall. I'll show you when the interview is over.
OK. I'll see you then.
Yes.We ' re interested in seeing the rooms for rent.
What kind of vegetable are you thinking about making?
I think we can still talk.
That's no problem. I know that every company has busy periods. When this happens, I'm ready to put in as much time as necessary to get the job done.
Not very much. It’s something like hockey, except that you use a big ball and no stick.
Now that It’s the new year, I ’ Ve decided to turn over a new leaf.
Good morning. Can I help you?
I'm a student. How about you?
Yes, a little.
Now tell me about your educational background.
Happy Mother's Day, Mom!
In addition to your major, did you have other fields to study?
Let's program your courses, since you have had English literature, you should take American literature and American prose and fiction. You transcript indicate that your english background is strong, so I don't think you have any problem with it.
She sure can. Are you jealous, Leslie?
Why not? There ’ s not much time left. Are you short of cash?
No problem. Can I withdraw all of it now?
May, could you bring this note to Professor Li for me today?
That's fine. I'll get it.
If you like the class this much already, I ’ m sure you will.
Then, do you have “ tea time ” every day? I mean, do you drink tea at a settled time?
Yeah! Where there is a will, there is a way.
Are you OK today?
I bet AC Milan will lose.
Here it is.
I guess it is a formal one because the general director will give a speech there, and most of the staff will take part in.
Cool! I ’ Ve always wanted to do something like that! Have you learned anything useful?
I was born and grew up in hebes Province. I moved to Beijing, where I started taking courses for my MBA. When I completed my degree, I was offered an opportunity working for a financial services company. I've worked there for eight years.
Yes, we have plenty on hand right now.
With pleasure, chap. But before I start, I need to know what you want a bike for?
Do you have small bills?
we've got a few. I can teach you how to surf on Sunday. It'll be fun!
Would you like to have a piece of cake?
Would you give me some fruits? How much are these oranges?
What do you mean? I can't understand.
Yes, but I only have few experiences. I guided a few groups of foreign tourists from America last winter vacation. I showed them around some places of interest.
Three Gorges of the Yangtze River.
It comes to $ 40.
me, too. What did you have in mind?
I just received a phone call for an interview next week.
You haven't told me anything yet.
Hey, Karen. Look like you got some sun this weekend.
OK. Do you have it in extra small?
Hurry up. We're going to be late.
Does the furniture from IKEA cost a lot?
I heard you were promoted to general manager of IBM's China Headquarters.
But, how can you be so calm. You loved her so much.
Did you look in the attic?
What other foreign languages do you speak?
Is that so? I didn't know it.Can I possible borrow a jacket and a tie?
Well, sure it is. Actually, I have been cutting down the amount since two months ago. I used to smoke a pack of cigarettes for a single day. Now I limit it to 6 cigarettes a day.
Then all you need to do is cook it and enjoy.
Let's see. From here, you have to take the 278 bus.
If I make another offer and they refuse, then what?
I was thinking about ordering some kind of pie.
I understand. But really you weren't rude at all.You said what you thought. I think he appreciates that.
I'll call you.
What's new with you?
Yes. However, I believe that marriage comes by destiny. I knew I would marry Julia when I met her at the first time.
Sure. It's $ 100.
Cappuccino is one-third espresso and two-thirds a mixture of steamed milk and froth.
Oh, good. That's nice to hear. Please give my best regards to them when you're home.
They give me a lot of congratulations.
I feel horrible. I think I picked up a bug.
How do you research your books?
Don ’ t boast and don ’ t be modest.
I will explain it in detail in the next class. Could you preview it?
Put all baggage on the conveyor belt.Walk through the detector gate one at a time, please.
I took something earlier.
how about your mother?
How old is she?
How do you spend your spare time? Are you interested in sports?
I ’ m going as fast as I can!
OK, I can have it ready by the end of the week.
Take a look at the newest Barbie — Digital Barbie.
Yeah, Please do. Now let me show you the house.
No, I'm open to suggestions.
May I please speak to Tom?
It tells the lifetime of a lady singer from a beggar in the street to a famous singer in the world. It is a kind of tragedy.
I ’ ll pick you up at... say, seven thirty?
Okay. Please close the door to the basement before you go to bed. I don't want the dog down there tonight.
What do you usually write about?
Well, making good wishes.
Well, considering the quantity of your order we could further reduce the price to 600. That's the best we can do. What do you think of that?
What classes do you think are still open?
Here's the check. I included a little extra for you.
That's better, but it's still not quite right.
Certainly, just fill in this form, please.
Who is your favorite music composer?
I'd love to come other time if it can be arranged.
So who takes care of him then?
I feel terrible sick, miss. I wonder if I could change my seat to the front part.
Will you give some suggestion?
I was regional champion for the 100 and 200 meters. I usually did well in the dong jump competitions, but I couldn ’ t compete with kids from other schools in the javelin. How about you?
So, he wants to have a more active retirement. Good idea!
Yes, can I help you?
Call transfer has many other advantages. When I am in places where network can't cover, such as the high building, I also use call transfer function, which transfers my calls to the hand-free telephone and I will not miss any call.
Take the number 5 train and get off at the United Squire.
Thanks so much. You're a good teacher.
It's industrial exhibition, in origin show the results of new industrial products in the city. a lot of products there to meet the needs of home and export
I'll look up the rate. To look up doesn't mean to look high into the sky or to look at the roof. It means to search for and find some information.
I'll make a list.
I need to take home some souvenirs!
If you like taking pictures, you may bring a camera with you.
Come on, you are making too big deal out of this.
Yes. To develop my knowledge, I studied Economics, Business Administration and Accountingthrough self-study. Nowadays, I have passed three courses on CPA.
Oh, my mother is a German, so I can speak German.
Thank you. So you think I will be able to get in with this?
It sure looks special, looks expensive too.
Yes, Sir. For how many people, please?
Sure, here is my passport, by the way what is the rate today?
Yes, I want to book a room.
I'm highkey obsessed with this my new phone.
Better take the subway. It’s faster, and more convenient.
Yes, I am new.
Wow! What about the memory?
Could you give me an expense report? I would like to attach the invoices for my phone bill this season.
Tomorrow is Halloween, I know I'm ready. I bought two pumpkins and a big bags of candy. Do you want to help me a jack-o-lantern?
Is it a family thing or just friends?
Of course the children.
For two weeks. After that you must renew the book if you wish to keep them longer.
I usually do housework in mornings. I go shopping occasionally. I like to do all my shopping in one bag trip to the supermarket. I always drive to the big supermarket in the city center. It takes about
Have I used the one that my sister is sick?
I'm afraid not. That is our usual practice, because we are sure we will get the right amount of money that way.
I'm glad that you could get back to me so fast.
All right. I suggest posting the ad Monday through Friday.
Quite delicious, especially the pepper steak.
incredible. By the way, what are these in the plates?
All the parts work.
Do you want to buy a new bicycle?
Ok, good luck. See you
I can't decide what I should do.
I'm afraid he's fully engaged.Could you make it another time?
There are actually special sites for people looking to date within their specific ethnic group and age group. But how should you screen potential mates? Do you suggest talking to them on the phone right away or communicating via e-mail?
You're becoming a real television watcher.
Are there any good seats left?
I won't.
I think you're being a bit optimistic. If you met them, you'd understand.
What's more, it's only ten minutes ' walk to the company.
cheer up, Nada. You'll be fine.
No. I need a rest!
Do you use your bank to pay your utility bills? I use direct debit.
What can you afford?
You ’ Ve god a fever and playing football isn ’ t a good idea for a boy with a fever. What ’ s that on your arm?
What about the kitchen?
How long have you had this pain?
Thanks for your concern.
I have collected different kinds of paper-cuts all over the country, you can pick the one you like best.
Not only that. The job I ’ m doing now is the most boring job you can imagine.
I don ’ t need it anymore.
Could you tell me what the requirements are for that, please?
I called the airlines to reconfirm the reservations today.
That's good news. What stage are you at now?
Excuse me, Is this the bus I should take to get to the Central Park?
oh, that's too short-lived.
Mostly just to browse the Internet and send emails to friends.
I'm afraid I can't come to work today, Mr. Smith.
Yes, he's holding a bunch of books.
When did it happen?
Do you ever get lonely living alone?
Hey Jackie. What are you doing?
The cover came off.
Thanks for your praise, Madam.
Wait a second, please. Oh, it's CA193.
Yes, I just wondered why the price between the ninth and tenth floor is so different.
Well, you can always bring it back to us for a full refund.
Your salesman also told me that each worker is trained to do quality analysis. Can you tell me a little about that?
Thanks. I will ask him.
I am sorry, sir. Your baggage is 2kg overweight.You have to pay extra money for it.
Okay. What about the other alternatives?
What did you think you were doing?
All right, Ma'am. I will run that charge for you. And then I will get your address in a moment
And disco a kind of nightclub.
Well. It’s not all my fault, Anna...
She asked me to call you to book an appointment with someone else today. When are you free today?
No problem. May I see your identification?
Can I leave a message for him please?
You want to send it airmail, madam?
Hi, Sara, what are you reading?
Let me explain. To get more cash, I'll have to borrow more from Vital, the venture capitalists.
Usually people with high blood pressure have no symptoms, so we call it the silent killer.
Not to high, maybe an inch or an inch in the half would be the best.
Indeed there are bad games. But many of them are good.
How old is he today?
Yes. The limit is four per family.
What ’ s the first thing you do when you go to the bathroom in the morning?
How many do you want?
I think we can visit West Lake. The landscapes are attractive. It is said that just as there is paradise in heaven, there are Su Thou and Hang Thou on earth.
What if we purchase an increased quantity? Can you give us better terms?
by the way, how long does it take?
I think that ’ s true with any of the fine arts.
What's your favorite flower?
Yes, Sir, the specialty of our restaurant is the seafood.
There are the pyramids. It’s easy to see how they got that name! they don ’ t have smooth sides though.
Yes, he is familiar with the plan.
Hopefully, he will be.
We can certainly do that. Expect a call from us at 7 o'colock and then again at 7 fifteen.
Oh, I ’ m sorry. I forgot about those completely. I ’ ll bring them by your office.
she's not bad. She's a bit bossy, but I'm sure I'll get used to her.
Good. I'll just stay here until you get back.
I have no desire to talk on a network with a bunch of strangers.
You just ran a red light.
Are you having a problem with it?
About freezing point, I think.But the morning's forecast said that we are going to have a very cold spell in the next few days - and the temperature will probably drop to 10 or 15 degrees below zero.
Excuse me, I ’ Ve been waiting my main dish for quite a time.
I saw the weather report, and it's going to rain for the next eight days.
But it's the same hairstyle.
It depends on the amount and how fast you want that person to receive the money. A SWIFT transfer is the fastest method but a banker's draft is usually the cheapest. How much do you wanna send?
That would be nice, thank you.
Well, It’s very comfortable just to drift here.
Sorry to hear that. Could you tell me what were in your purse?
Oh, come on! Failure is the mother of success. Don ’ t lose heart. I'm sure you'll succeed.
Excuse me. May I see that laptop for a moment?
Ok, see you after school...
You knew Brain Locker?
I really wasn't told anything.
I worked as a PR clerk for one year
( A few minutes later. ) Should I get off at the next stop?
Ok, see you then.
Yes, I do.That looks good. It's not too short.It ' s just right. How much do I owe you?
You are going to be such an adorable father! Tell me about this school.
Your boyfriend is so considerate to you. When do you plan to marry?
Actually, this is a kind of addiction called ' infomania ' or ' information overload '.
I ’ d like to conduct some scientific research into genes. It would be wonderful to make a medical breakthrough.
Would you like to get in shape together?
For sure all the customers will benefit from this.
What happened to Nancy? She is all sweetness and light today.
Good afternoon, Peace Hotel, what can I do for you?
Sometimes you can't win for losing, sir.
I don't know, maybe one hundred.
OK, we could look at that.
What sort of things are you interested in?
No, I've never heard of this song before. It's beautiful! Who sing it?
Oh, why such a high mileage?
I see. Thank you. Sir, what kind of duties will I do?
Cartons. Is that okay?
try a Singer. It has lime juice and grenadine over ice.
Just give me a second. I'll be right up. I ran a virus scan on your computer, and it turns out that you have a lot of infected files!
Come on. You just haven ’ t met the right person and I think that you work too much. You should learn how to entertain yourself and enjoy life.
Try to pull it together, Vernassa. I am sure things will turn note, ok?
The acting of this film is marvelous.In spite of the thin plot, the acting, the music and the scene have won the Academy Award of this year.
ten fifteen a. m.
You can discover interviewer's eyes because they can show his thoughts, and can judge whether he is interested in your words by his gesture and mien.
Yeah, we don ’ t live in the vacuum. We have traditional values and long but different history.
yeah, China's developing so fast and development opportunities can be found almost in every corner of the country.
I feel nervous when I face her. She looks so serious when we have a conversation all the time.
It's NX567822100007.
What's special about these things?
This is going to surprise you, but I'm happy. I think you're making the right move.
My polling place is at the park up the street.
$ 300 per month.
The palace hotel they ’ re taking care of the catering, including the wedding cake. I ’ m sure they ’ ll do a good job.
Is your brother older or younger than you?
nope, actually I was waiting for you. I have something big to tell you.
No, I was out. Was it worth watching?
Mo Mu, Thong Lichen, Meng Gang and Ran Nv. They were well respected.
Hello. Is Mr. Stewart there?
What are you reading?
Exactly right. If you'd like to go ahead, I can process that for you now, Mr Zu.
I can't believe it!
How was your vacation in Paris?
35.00 dollars a week, but I don ’ t allow smoking.
Thanks. Where shall we put our luggage?
Nanometer is a length scale. It's one billionth of a meter, roughly ten times the size of an individual atom.
I beg your pardon for being late.
I would appreciate that.
You're welcome, have a safe trip.
Is Stanley still singing that Elvis song? He's really hogging the mic!
There is no step four...
Sure, what's the matter?
Yes. When the bride and groom are ready to leave on their honeymoon all the single girls gather in one place. The bride stands with her back to them and throws her bouquet over her shoulder and they each try to catch it. The one who does will be the next one married.
You should've been done already.
At the drop of a hat.
That sounds great. I love Korean food.
I suppose so. It's great.
Hold on for a moment please. I'm fetching my textbook.
That ’ s everything.
I want to study Mandarin and public relations.
I think I have just a right apartment for you.
Oh, it's not very far. And as far as I know it is a fancy place.
The style is all right, but I'm not sure about the color. Let me think for a while.
No problem, John.
not yet. I'm hoping we'll be able to find something cheap once all the students leave the city for the summer.
What is it, dear?
How come? I mean why most of them were religious people?
Only 1 hour.
Daddy, look ahead in the distance, the mountains there. They roll all the way up to the sky.
Oh, no! Did you call the police?
Yes, I've got enough soap for my use, but no extra soap for souvenirs.
so you've seen other plays that he's directed?
If we are to invest more money to education, we will need to raise taxes. That wouldn ’ t be popular with voters.
I feel confused by all the diet options out there. I don ’ t know which one actually works.
when are you getting married?
Mr. : That's alright. It's the first day of school, after all.
Thanks for doing such a good job.
Not at all. Welcome again.
What ’ s your favourite ball sport?
No, I don't. I get a bonus each month, depending on the value of the contracts I sign with clients.
Do you need help with anything else?
He's endless talking about stocks almost bores me to death.
It must have been love at first sight because I know he didn't have a girlfriend last week.
Do you plan to further your study?
I'd like to study in the UK, but it's really expensive.
How much do you expect to earn?
That's nothing new.
Do you know that soda doesn't quench your thirst?
Do you have any baggage to check in?
Simply because it's not practical at all.
No problem. I'll do that for you.
Thanks for reminding me. She's the right person to help me.
I'd like to leave a message. Please ask him to give me a call as soon as he returns. He has my number.
In that case, let me tell you about some alternatives.
What courses did you major in?
I got poison oak while hiking, and I need something to help me with the itching.
She is only after his money.
Thank you, but my friend is in the library, and he can give me a ride home.
Maybe you should communicate with him just like a friend, not a boss.
I realize that, and I can do all that when I wake up in five minutes.
Yes. I am thinking of a tour to Australia.
Arthur, that ’ s the bathroom.
If you need help, don ’ t hesitate to ask me.
I know. But I must say it's still unacceptable. Couldn't you make a discount for me? You see, we have such a long-term cooperation. And our business could be mutually beneficial.
Have you bought another handset
The tranquility of the night, the chirping of some insects, everything is so natural!
Can I have a look at your international timetable?
That's for sure. You know, I had the greatest time ever.
Excuse me, Professor, I have a problem and need to leave class early.
I'd like a suite. What's the rate?
8. Is your VIP room big enough for 8 persons?
Thank you for understanding. I promise I'll make it up to you.
That ’ s just it, I ’ m not happy anymore, Tim. It’s not you, It’s me. I know that I can be hard to deal with, and you are a great guy! You are the type of guythat any woman would kill for!
Could I try it on?
I messed up.
Thank you, I've learned so much from you.
If you think it will be very short-term, I would recommend you go with the 60 - day loan. Then it can be paid back quicker, so you won't have to consider it in the future.
that ’ s a good idea. I usually just sit at home alone and get increasingly moody.
Shut up... Billy... BILLY!
Terrific! Then how should I apply for?
And what did you do after that?
Is it fun driving the bus?
You had an art class?
You're too modest. Pass me the catalogue! I'd like to see which song to choose.Wow, this place has a large selection of songs. I dont know which to choose!
Great. I just got back from a week's vacation in Thailand.
I want you to vacuum in your room, and don't forget to dust everything.
Thank you. Actually, I could not believe it at first. You know, there're so many outstanding people in our company. Many of them are qualified to fill that position.
Of course. Go straight ahead. Turn right at the next street. You'll see a tall, yellow building.The post office is on the first floor.
Oh, thanks, professor Donald. This is really very nice of you.
the game have never disappointed me.
yeah, wear formal clothes to your interview and do be punctual. That'll leave your interviewers with a good first impression.
No, we haven't.
Sorry, the whole afternoon is filled up here.Will tomorrow do?
Yes. I have my wallet stolen.
Some people are always closing their handsets, so it's difficult to inform them.
I've always admired my new phone.
Yeah, everyday. And there ’ s only one choice.All the other buses are going the other direction.
A little expensive. But I'll buy it anyway. It's hard for me to get a perfect one. Here is 200 Yuan.
Many people are striving for going abroad nowadays.It seems to be a trend.
OK, I will.Thank you.
I think so too. How much is it?
The customer got back to us this morning and they have agreed to pay a Discrepancy Fee of 100 US dollars.
i didn't know that. Are rabbits difficult to take care of?
Well, I'll accept the price and place an initial order of 10,000 units.
Of course, as long as the card is well kept.
Yes, but you will have to confirm this reservation at least two hours before departure time.
In America, most children start primary school at the age of five.
What? That would be to cut off your nose to spite your face.
Yes, that's OK. I'm glad to get started.
Yes, I do. I find it very informative.It always has plenty of articles from correspondents all over the world and the business section is very useful too.
Are the expressions of sight draft, time draft, usance draft and letter of credit adequate terms to express the different methods of payment?
I'm going to get to sleep eventually.
What ’ s the matter? Didn ’ t you sleep well last night?
You can take the red line train from here, but you'll have to transfer to the blue line at Fuxingmen transfer station. After you transfer, take the blue line that is heading north towards Fuchengmen.
Thanks, but no thanks. A taxi will do just fine.
Everyone should be able to love who they want.
Cloudy in the morning, overcast in the afternoon.
I helped break... I mean WASH... all the dishes!
Don't be so sensitive, just a casual question, I caught you looking at the groomsman
Was, talk about a double whammy.
Actually I have a passion for Chinese literature.
Thank you. I think I'll take this one, and these pants as well. They're a present for a friend.
So you mean you feel ecstatic one minute and then blue the next?
Can we add up this item to the agreement?
Are you new here?
They will be ready at noon tomorrow. Each negative develops one print, right?
That ’ s my job, sir. Just one more signature here, please.
He is playing hob with the fact.
what other kind of music do you listen to?
To hell with you.
B, should we get a maid?
I will write you in for that day at 4
Which do you like better, orange or lemon?
Have you seen the new James Bond movie?
Let's go outside and talk. So Laura, do you come here often?
Uh huh, that's for sure. You might find that your only career choice is teaching other graduate students.
About 20 minutes. Do you live alone?
Yes, I did. Have you lived here long?
Yeah, I worked about twenty hours a week in a pizza restaurant.
These things are always oooo boring. Heard any gossip? Anybody making the big bucks?
I don't believe it took my picture.
Yes. No problem.
Our most elegant flower is Golden Lily.
Less than one hour.
Dahua's Market. How can I help you?
Oh, the results have come out, and I can tell you... Yes, I find your name. You are hired. Congratulations!
I have to write you a ticket.
That is a good idea.
She can't answer you.
What is the matter?
Oh dear. What a pity. Are you sure you lost your wallet in theatre?
Thank you. I think I have to talk to the bank representatives. Thank you for your help.
This is the right place. Please join us.
You got a big return for a small gift.
How many pieces of luggage would you like to check in, sir?
Your delivery has been confirmed.
what would it be like?
Then the shipping documents have to be attached. That way, both parties confirm the documents that will accompany the draft and constitute evidence of shipment in compliance with the contract terms.
It seems to me that now you're famous. You've got to go out and be seen at the right places and go to the right parties.
Do you know if she's read this one?
Hey, Ben... did you catch the game last night?
You're like the tenth person to say that.
I guess you can write that I'm looking forward to seeing them in June.
Hong, I really need to call back to the UK but I can ’ t afford to pay for the roaming charges.
I'm going to my parents ' house for my father's birthday.
Yeah, I love that, no class, no homework, and no exams.
No, maybe they're not. But they're close.
No, is it difficult?
... yes, but this one has an all-new buzz.
Maybe it can take effect.
Of course, I will tell her.
Don't try everything at one time, please.
Oh, yes. It's on Wednesday morning. Sorry about that.
My name is Wang Lin. My English name is Linda.
These are my roses. The roses have been in flower for a week.
Why not? China is a wonderful country.
What if he had his friends fake the reviews?
You are well-informed. Can you tell me something about the Patent Law in our country from the book you are reading?
Would you like to come to our factory for a visit?
Good afternoon, Pan Am. May I help you?
Oh, I am sorry to hear that. I did't know that you had split up. What happened?
Yes, it is the credit demand.Where can I cash travellers ' cheques?
I see. But I'm not a good swimmer. Can you tell me how deep the pool is?
You like that work?
Sure, Richard. What ’ s on your mind?
Good.There are many different kind of language labs, but ours is a small one.If you decide to take the job, I'll explain how to operate the system, Are you sure?
I am a girl of many interests. I like dance, chess, collecting stamps, travelling and taking photos.
Okay, let's shake on it.
How can it be?
Come some time next week if you like. I think we'll have got some by then.
Good morning, Mei! How are you?
Well, I was looking in this magazine the other day and cruises are not very expensive at all. Take a look at this!
Great! And remember, a taxi, not a limo.
Can ’ t complain. And you?
really impressive. These two genres are totally different.
Yes, I'm looking for Bob.
I want to buy some flowers for my wife's birthday.
Many people like him get a flying start but soon disappear.
It says No smoking.
That's good! This is our first transaction. I hope you'll be entirely satisfied with this initial shipment.
We have this new model in red, white, black, or silver. These are the standard colors. Of course you could specially order from various other colors too.
I'm sorry but I ordered sole, not the same as the others.Will you change it?
Right. All the people who speak Chinese. Hindi, French and Spanish aren ’ t suddenly going to stop using those languages.
I am so sorry to hear that sir, let me check and see what is available, what room are you in now?
OK, I'll do them.
Yeah, thank you for telling me.
I had Professor Mahoney.
Oh, it's out of stock at the moment. Why don't you choose another brand instead?
that ’ s all right.
Really, what's wrong with it?
What type of movies do you like?
Then, put on your casual clothes and pack some food and beverages.
It’s very kind of you to invite me to dinner.
Wow! That ’ s great. I sincerely want to achieve my weight loss goals, but It’s difficult for me to keep up the exercise. Also you know, old habits are hard to break.
Okay, let me know when you're ready to order your food.
Thank you. You save me.
I understand how you feel, but you ’ Ve gotta learn to move on.
She was a bit nervous, I guess. What else?
Sure. She is the ideal girl, the one I had dreamed of.
Yes.Our guest team is really tough.
Well, let ’ s plan to get together next Monday afternoon, around three?
Are you doing anything special?
I've never tasted anything better.
Oh, did you? Thanks a lot.
I think I have a good understanding of fundamentals in the areas your company deals with, and I can go on from here to build up the specific skills and knowledge I need to do my job well.
In autumn, almost all fruits are ripe and all crops are waiting to be harvested.
OK, Mr. Wang. Thank you very much for coming to the airport to see us off. Your great country and your hospitality have left a very deep impression on all of us and your working attitude and your way of doing business have changed my opinions about Chinese people.
What do you think are the capacities for a success as a translator?
All right. Now what?
I'm sorry for the misunderstanding.
The Cosby Show? Wasn't it over many years ago?
Do you allow any commission?
I think I want to try a new style.
I also heard that Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes made an appearance at the Oscars.
Only three days?
When did you go there?
You did spend too much, and most of the expense was kind of unnecessary.
No, I've not heard of it. Tell me about it.
I have to go to court. A cop was there so he can prove that the damage wasn't there.
Haha, I could never do that. I ’ d be a zombie if I didn ’ t have my morning coffee fix. Let ’ s get down to business then.
What about birth control pills? Don't they work on Italians?
You are studying here, aren ’ t you?
And how would you describe yourself, Miss Tao? What kind of person are you?
It’s just nerves. Just play the right hand for now. One two three four five six, ta ti tri-ple-ti. Good, good. Don ’ t forget the accidentals! The key signature says that note should be a G-sharp b
I tend to work well with people who are confident and straightforward.It ' s more difficult for me to be around timid people, because I move quickly and I am decisive.
Very good. Now, I have a couple of final questions.
What if you want to publish some photos?
It's $ 42!! That's expensive!
They look simple today. But they were milestones in their times.
We ’ ll offer you a monthly salary to begin with, in addition, we offer one percent commission and all your sales. You also enjoy life insurance and health insurance. What ’ s starting salary would you expect here?
That would be in our children's section. That book shelf there on the right.
Do you feel your English is good enough for the course?
Yes, it would. It’s very expensive though.
I know for a fact that it goes to the station.
It is the best season for a picnic right now. Have you decided the place for your picnic?
What do you do in your free time, Nancy?
Do you mind washing my clothes?
It was fantastic! We had such a good time. The only problem was that because it was their high season, we spent hours queuing.
It’s ten yuan.
I see, sir. This one is very good.
Of course. Reservations aren't necessary, but we recommend them as our restaurant can get quite busy.
Why did you select your college?
How so? I thought it went fine.
I like the one on the left, but I don't like the pattern on it. It's too much. I want a pattern that's a bit subtler.
Here.Near this school.
Of course I forgive you. What are friends for? Now, what am I going to do for that other guy?
You're right, but you know, it's hard to give up an old habit.
All right, sir. Please reconfirm your ticket no later than 12 o'clock two days before the flight ; otherwise, your reservation will automatically be cancelled.
Good morning, how are you doing today?
But junk food is so easy. It requires no silverware or plates, no rigid mealtimes, no pleases and thank yous.
Thanks. See you at five. Don ’ t forget to bring your valentine.
I'm very sorry for any inconvenience I've caused you.
I have a problem with my cable.
Half past six... and it's half past six already.
Yes, Ms. Reese. I remember, you spoke with me. Is there a problem?
I don ’ t know how to vote.
Yes, Mr. Bergeron. You mentioned that in your letter. To tell you the truth, your proposal surprised us.
Fine. Everything is just fine.
Yes. I like wearing shorts in summer. My legs would freeze!
How long have you been living in New York?
Buses are more cramped and you can ’ t walk around.
I'm really interested. Tell me about them.
I like them very much. We also eat a lot of vegetables in my country, buy we eat different kinds.
And what was your last job?
Wow. She's so lucky. She doesn't have a degree and she already has a job.
I need to withdraw $ 300.
Yes. Make it out to Time After Time.
We have had a window table reserved for you. This way, please.
If your government invests in your country ’ s infrastructure, it will be money well spent.
Me too. But what can we do? This isn't a reality TV show... we can't just vote him out.
Marketing Manager ’ s Office. Can I help you?
Yeah, I really want it. I am on my uppers.
Where is she from?
that's amazing. Are you doing well in your classes?
Alright. But will we sing?
I'm in Beijing, at the Weston Hotel.
I don't need it to play the guitar.
No, I'll pay for it in cash.
What kind of fees?
Hello, I am calling to confirm my reservation for a single room.
I see. May I know the schedule?
yes. It was so crowded. I'm worn-out. Let's find our seats.
All right. What is the nearest planet to the sun?
Yes, it would. Don ’ t worry. There ’ s a lawn outside the building and there ’ s the park nearby. This place will be fine.
According to the book, it is. I ’ Ve never seen a building that is a perfect cube. Look at the building. From the air, it looks like a square with a semi-circle attached to each of its four sides. What
Yes, I did. By the way, in case there is a flaw in this CD player, can I return it?
Are you often traveling by plane?
Yes, they do. I wish we Americans had a better train system.
But people keep talking about the benefits from the plan.
Your luggage is two pounds over. I ’ m afraid They'll be in excess luggage charge, Sir.
What have you been eating?
Excuse me, would you please do me a favor?
I tried to ask the bank teller why it changed, but she didn't speak English well enough.So I decided to go to the magazine shop. The one around the corner.And I bought an American newspaper.
Yes, I do. Here it is, and the cash.
Do you have any publications?
No, no no no chicken breasts at the moment, but we have some nice chicken thighs.
That ’ s a great idea. I ’ ll try it on.
911. How may I help you?
So, is there anything wrong with my strokes?
Oh, Is that what this is?
I was skiing on and on excitedly until I realized one thing-I could not stop! You can just imagine how terrified I was.
That's no news. Those two were high school sweethearts anyway.
This is Mr. William.
It is wonderful. What's John going to do this summer?
I see. So, I need to stamp it. And sign it too?
I am typing a report for the moment, Mr. Robbins. Anything I need to do?
Yes, that's all.
of course if I can.
We'll be coming in tomorrow to make a rather large cash withdrawal, it's for payroll.
Are you willing to work for extra hours?
Wow, your grandma's really having a field day with you, huh?
There is evidence! You know Edwin Hubble? He ’ s the guy who in the early twentieth century was the first scientist to measure the drift of matter in the universe, thus advancing notions of an expanding universe. What would it be expanding from? Well, the Big Bang... DUH!
I agree with you but I think you really need to talk to your mother and tell her what's on your mind.
No. I can text the address to you if you are not clear about it
Because you're going to love this show!
In that case, please help us reserve a table for 4 at 9:00.
You can always transfer money from that account into your new one.
Have you got any special training in programming?
Outlets give good deals.
What's a hall pass?
I wouldn ’ t exactly characterize it in that way. I think something happened. Something terrible and unexpected that made it impossible for him to... what if he showed up, took one look at me and left?
OK, here you go.
It's really worth seeing. By the way, I'd like to buy some souvenirs.
How good is your Mandarin?
I would like to come in at three o'clock.
Really? Then, I guess I won ’ t have a hard time finding a room or getting a cab?
So that's four plates, four forks, four knives, and four spoons?
China beat Brazil three to zero.
Although we have many things in common, we'are not soul mates.
Have you been driving buses a long time?
Good luck with that!
I think it's going very well, actually. We had a long meeting with them. After several lengthy discussions they decided to accept our offer.
Sorry to hear that, but could you inform me why I failed?
I want to inform you of the interview.
I feel they're dirty.
I think I ’ ll stay in on Saturday and rest.
Then, would you recommend any other nearby hotel?
Actually, I am afraid I will be stuck in the job forever, if I choose a bad one.
Hey Bob. Whatchy doing?
No problem. My husband bought me some beautiful jewellery for our anniversary and I don't feel safe keeping it in the house. Initially, on the advice of a friend, I stored it in the freezer.
I wonder whether there are any changes in your prices.
I'm going to Beijing tomorrow. I'm packing my luggage.
We should bring in a really good DJ.
Wow, you ’ re up early today! What ’ s for breakfast?
Telco Mobile, how can I help you?
You must have confidence in yourself.
Hello, Madam. What can I do for you today?
I'm exhausted.
What ’ s wrong? Slow down or you are gonna give yourself a heart attack.
Why would you say that?
Maybe It’s just that he is stressed out from work or something. He does have a pretty nerve wracking job you know.
That is my friend Tim who lives nearby.
The closest garage. What's the charge?
Come on! What are you nervous about?
Thanks for inviting me over for dinner this evening.
There ’ s a check of two hundred dollars and photograph.
Yes, I think I'd like the green mask in the middle.
Please come in and sit down. I'm happy to finally meet you.
Let me see your form. You mentioned that you want five days to go back home for New Year, right?
Fine, only a little tired.
Don't ask me.
OK. Whatever you say.
Service Technician. How can I apply for this position?
Can you tell me what days the classes are on?
How's your mother doing?
Thank you very much. Goodbye.
I'm highkey obsessed with this this book.
I'm afraid I'll feel sick at the sight of it.
Yes, it suits you very well. It certainly is unique. I don ’ t think I ’ Ve seen anything like it before.
I got to know your company through such famous brands as LUX, LIPTON and WALLS. After making a customer survey, I was glad to find out how your products are appreciated by millions of Chinese.
Has your prescription been filled yet?
Aren't you going to have a holiday abroad this year?
Hi, Bob, everything okay?
It's a private garden.
What's more, some scenes were good, much fit for the children.
In seven days it will be Christmas Day.
It was so perfect that it won a unanimous 10.
We have quite a lot of import and export information and can give you figures on population, consumption, production, and foreign exchange reserves.
I'm sorry for hero. I dont think there's any excuse for his acting in some parts.
I hear the drinks and food there are moderately priced.You should be fine.
no, we decided to stay in our apartment. With all the buses out of service and the underground trains at a halt, many people had no choice but to walk home. It was utter chaos.
So I have to pay 25 cents for each day the books are late?
But I'm open to new things. I'll have a bowl of cereal, too.
I have a terrible headache.
I got a great look at him.
We will need it for both days.
sure, go ahead.
What are we waiting for? Come on!
Um... Actually I am guessing you didn't get the MEMO. Your boss was selected to fill the vacancy in the CEO slot. He actually is the CEO now, or will be, as soon as the official press releases and hoopla is done with.
Let's get a soft drink.
Don't mention it. You know, we ’ re old friends.
Don't forget my friend Andy from the office. He has nothing to do on Friday, so I invited him over.
No, don't worry. I'll get you off when you get there.
Yes. I need a belt that is kind of casual and kind of dressy.
Yes. I ’ Ve heard that people in your country like to eat lamb chops.
I don ’ t know. I think I did well in the paper exams. I was prepared to answer a lot of questions, but they didn ’ t ask those as I expected. To my surprise, the manager tried to talk about the Chinese poesy with me.
Hello! Are you shopping here today? Haven't I seen you in some flea markets and thrift shops a couple of times?
Yes, It’s half price. It’s supposed to be too large-that ’ s the fashion.
You've got it! But are we coming back for the music, or for the fruit?!
You're welcome. Goodbye.
I'll prepare that. Do you prefer white rice or brown rice?
Dou you think I should join a basketball team, Mary?
Thanks, this will be a big help in putting together next quarter's marketing strategies. With competition this intense, we'll have to step up production even more. We need a price we can compete with.
Friday sounds good. Where should we meet?
Don't you know that? It's all about new office rules.
Does it occur seasonally or all year round?
Good evening, sir. Welcome to our restaurant.
Did you get laid off?
You can ’ t compare apples and oranges. I believe that both topics are important and that we can ’ t ignore them, the mistreatment of animals can cause a great environmental imbalance. I believe that governments should prohibit activities like poaching.
Isn't that a scary movie?
I was hoping to get a few new ties for my collection.
Nice to meet you. I'm Wen, and this is Nikki.
Usually if you are leaving today, you'd better check out before 12 noon, and leave the room. If you check out after 12 noon, we will count one day more.
Which one do you feel is best?
The best thing to do is study as much as you can. I'm sure you'll do alright.
Alright, see you.
No problem. We'll supply you with an apartment of two bedrooms and a living room.
That's so true. It's great that we see eye to eye on this.
Yes, but that doesn't make them right, does it? Just because they think so?
What happens on the holiday?
Oh, gosh. I didn't see it.
Yes. That will be all.
hold it a second. I want to fix my hairpin.
Sure, can I see your student ID?
Don't worry about it. But how was it?
It's much too hard for his age.
It's our pleasure.
That's all.
Oh, really? I go to the gym every day.
Reading my fashion magazines! How do you think I know so much about all the latest trends?
Yes, here is my ID card.
It's $ 1.25 for this bus.
Yes, I have several copies, but they're all different versions... The latest I have is version 12, is that current?
OK. Make sure the power is switched off then tighten up all the bolts on the unit and replace the broken blade. Why is there oil all over the floor?
No, but I'd really like to.
I have a collect call for you from Jennifer. Will you accept the charges?
What book is that?
Oh. I ’ m sorry to hear that. What happened?
The organizational structure is the company's framework of communication and authority.
Me too. Do you think we are boring people?
I count all of the correct answers, total them, and divide by the total. Does this look right to you?
Jake just broke up with me.
Congratulations! So, have you started planning your move?
Goodbye. Hope to see you again next year.
This is Nicola Grey, and this is Claire Taylor.
Yeah, it looks that way. My wife has been bugging me about it. I thought we could probably survive without one, but with a baby on the way, maybe it is time to get a car.
I like to be paid more than that. Hopefully, 150,000 a year. To be honest, I left the company to get more income.
It's more practical, and the new units really are very quiet.Your customers won't even notice them.
I haven't lately.
I feel miserable. Can I give you money for it?
Is the suspect in this line?
Yes. I want to buy a pair of shoes.
You have to do it. But it takes only about 30 minutes.
Are you doing something on Saturday evening? If not, welcome to my new apartment.
I'm having dinner with my family
I ’ m afraid I ’ m already booked up for next Sunday. But thank you just the same.
I feel like we've been on this bus forever.
Sorry Paul. I couldn't help it. So why doesn't he give you a hand?
Have a nice day, and thank you for shopping here.
Wow, a story about the clever Monkey King. It's a classic and children's favorite.
I need to cancel an account.
I'm sorry. I did not know that.
That sounds like a sensible plan. Do you want me to help you with your job search?
I kind of like it. He looks better that way, doesn't he? More presidential.
Hello? Is this the Maintenance Department?
Come here, let me introduce some friends to you.
This morning. I mean...
Certainly sir, we currently have a special promotion where we include voice mail services, call waiting and also three way calling.
Oh! Sorry to hear that. This is quite unusual as we have steak from the market every day.
Happy Mother's Day to you, Mum!
I thought that he was with Malia.
2,000 RIB per month.
Thank you.What ' s your occupation, Mr. Smith?
What does that mean?
Your seat is in cabin No. 5, the upper deck. It’s near amid ship.
No, you used to be. But not now. You are in love with someone else. You are in love with my friend, Janet. You appreciate her very much. You think she is beautiful and fun to be with and you think I ’ m dumb and uninteresting.
What do you think now?
No, Dave. I haven't wrecked my jeep. I'm calling to offer you a job.
The flight to Huston takes off daily every two hours from 6:00 to 11:00 pm. So you don't need a reservation. Seats are available on a ' first come, first served ' basis.
I think you've got the flu. There's a lot of it about.
Maybe you are right. OK, I'll take it.
I do yoga twice a weeks
Just tell the truth. I won ’ t take it personally.
That's fine. Fill out this form and let me see your credit card, please.
An art! You have a good point there. So it is called martial arts in English. The Chinese are really capable of doing things nicely. They even made fighting a great enjoyment, so marvelous and fascinating.
I want to buy some meat.
So what time tomorrow?
How's this then? We propose partial shipment. We can ship whatever is ready to meet your urgent need instead of waiting for the whole lot to get ready.
Oh, that ’ s such a relief. I didn ’ t want the payment to be overdue. Thank you so much.
Okay, I'll have everything prepared for you when you get here.
And every best wish for your new job.
Of course, what do you need?
Oh, today's International Labour Day. Is it our working day?
Really? It's very nice of you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. many times. Many times. When I was younger, you used to get double-decker all over England but now you only tend to see them in the big cities.
No, I only have a handbag.
That would be great. Actually, can I get your phone number, Ella? That's assuming you don't mind if I call you sometime.
All products have to go through five checks in the whole manufacturing process.
Yes, he sings wonderfully.
We can always go to the cafeteria and eat.
Oh, so Dalian is hotter than New York now.
Actually, we have a few to choose from. They are over here.
Are these your triplets? They ’ re beautiful! I ’ Ve seen other babies who were nothing but skin and bones at their age. You know, they ’ re absolutely identical of you and John! Are you planning on having any more?
You're going to Shanghai tomorrow, are you?
We could try that, but I really want this house!
I myself like very much to listen to the singing of some of the insects, especially the singing of cicadas.
Surely of course. But you have to be back by 5 o'clock, otherwise we will charge you 10 $.
What about a draft at 120 days sight?
Then, pass me a bowl for the soup.
Johnson, and my contact number is 2876543 2. My office number is 2123456 7.
She said that when we get off the bus, the Book Building is right by the bus stop.
That's true. Cycling is good for our environment, too. Let me just get my helmet then.
I completely understand. I didn't intend on liking spicy food at first either, but when you have no other choicest, you've got to adapt.
Yes. I'm just waiting until I officially get admitted to the university with a conditional offer to apply for my visa.
Is she as clever as you?
Hello. I'd like to get a seat to New York City on a flight leaving sometime before this Friday.
I need a packet of cigarettes please.
Japanese is easy to learn.
That is one option, Madam. If your are travelling to either Hong Kong or Macau we are permitted to exchange up to 1,000 USD for you.
what was your impression of her when you saw her in person?
Okay. What time is the meeting tomorrow?
Let me examine you. Don't worry. It's nothing serious.
What qualities do you expect the applicants to have?
I am Liu Yi, from China XYZ Company. I ’ d like to see Mr. Thomas, please.
Yes, I guess you are right. So, do you need my passport?
That's very good. Shall we sign a contract now?
Will you be okay when you immigrate to America?
Sure. Let me get it for you.
And the winner is... Vivian, again! I don't believe it!
A single room? That ’ s fine. In whose name shall I make the booking?
Is your helmet comfortable?
Aright. I'll talk to you later.
Hey, Peter, have you had lunch yet?
Thanks. I ’ m proud of myself, too.
Come and see me again in a month's time. I think you'll be a different man!
Yes, I see. Go home to bed and take one of these pills every three hours.
It lasts 4 hours, from 10:00 to 14:00
Hey! I have a surprise for you.
Right now, I think I need to really focus on matters at home, but thanks for a nice evening.
No, that ’ s May fifth in Spanish, James, no wonder you are failing my Spanish class. No, May first is International Workers ’ Day.
What do you do then?
Then you call me or Tom first.
It's this high-tech equipment that doctors my voice a little. Actually, i am tone-deaf.
Well, honestly speaking, I went to watch it out of curiosity. I ’ d say It’s really a special art form.
OK. We will manage it later.
How are you, Sue?
I see. Do you have any suggestions for other things we should do?
Is everything under control?
OK. You'll have to use a credit card or leave a $ 100 deposit.
What about Abraham Lincoln? Did you get any questions about him?
Do you want to order an appetizer first?
When do you find a job satisfying?
I am sorry to trouble you, but there's a lot of noise in the next room.
Let's look at that another way. The major point is the value that we add, not who has been in business longer, or is bigger.
Yes, but I don't mind working hard.
Yes, it is, busy today. We usually have a lot more clients on the weekend. Would you like to take a sit, and wait for a while, please?
Yes, this coming Saturday.
I'm getting a little short on cash. Let's just window shop a little.
I know what I am doing. Don't worry. Can you do me a favor?
That was my second time. The first time, I was in a car accident.
I apologize, but I didn't realize that I did.
Which financial magazines and newspapers do you think do the best job of checking facts?
No. Could you also get some extra towels and soup too? We went to the pool today and used up our two clean towels.
No thanks. I like to run in the morning. I ran a couple of miles when I woke up today.
Really? I am surprised. He doesn't look like a guy who'd ever cheat on his wife, does he?
Jim, could you do me a favor?
Mr. Wilson. I'm very glad we reached the agreement at last. Now I'd like to propose a toast to the further development of our cooperation.
Was anything taken?
Where would you like to be in 5 years?
"Yep. A car door. "" Why the door? "" the others asked him. "" Well, "" he said, “ If it gets hot, we can open the window. "" Do you get it? "
Yes, we charge 50 cents for water.
I feel It’s rather dry here
Well, they ' re not here.They are in the dustbin.
Good morning, Madam. Can I help you?
of course I was scared. But I had an instructor that went with me and that helped.
She'll be fine.
I can ’ t go through with this! I just can ’ t! I ’ m not ready for marriage! What was I thinking? I ’ m only thirty five years old! I ’ Ve got my entire life ahead of me, adventures waiting! I can ’ t settle down yet!
when do you think you ’ ll have finished reading it?
It was pretty bumpy, also a bit long, all together about 5 hours.
I ’ m your wife, not a housewife. I have my own work.
You should study before you take it.
It's getting late, Mary.
How was your date with Betty?
May I speak to Marry Lin please?
Do you have a VIP room?
Do we have it available?
Perhaps you would like some sole. Many guests like it very much.
how long will it take us to drive to London?
Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying he's like that all the time.
Do I need to pay to use it?
Hi, Tony. Haven ’ t seen you for a long time. How have you been?
The one where you look like your dog just died. You have to get over her and the sooner the better.
What is on the program?
Why didn't you just ask me?
There's some tape, iodine, and cloth bandages. I don't think the cloth bandages can stop the bleeding. What we need is a tourniquet.
I am glad that you have been happy with my performance.
Oh my lord. I haven't really started them.
My husband, my mother-in-law, my daughter and I.
Will the electricity and water be on, or do we need to do something to get it turned on?
May we once more remind you that the contract should be canceled by one month notice.
Linda? Is that you? I haven't seen you in ages!
What sort of shopping is nearby, Mr. Taylor?
Then I suggest you go to K-Mart or Wal-Mart.
Can I help you find something?
One yuan. When you get on the front of the bus, just drop your money into the box.
I'd like to try a local beer. What would you suggest?
I really love you.
I ’ Ve tried it, not a chance.
Hi, this is Quipu Corp. Is that Miss Zhang?
Certainly sir, this is our train schedule. We have an express train departing every morning and an overnight train that departs at nine pm.
A lot of people do. I'll try it for a while anyway, but I certainly don't want to pay a lot of parking tickets.
Sometimes it is. But after working for a few weeks, It’s easy to figure out.
It's like this. It's square with a leather cover. Yes, I remember, there is a green string around the handle. That's right.
No, you don't. It is free of charge.
No, they ’ re coming tomorrow morning to turn the gas on. My phone should be working then, too.
What a strange guy!
Lunch sounds great! Let's head on out!
Thanks a lot. You have been here for almost three weeks. How time flies!
Good. One more thing, we'd like you to quote us on CIF basis.
Right, but the negotiation has been postponed until 5th to 7th of April. Do you think it's possible for us to change the reservation?
How long is the boat time-table effective?
What companies are stockholders in this company, do you know?
Hello, sir. How many in your party?
OK. What's your working experience?
I have had headaches my whole life, but they have been getting worse lately.
All right. Here is the money.
Well, it's said that a lot of young people favor getting married quickly which tend to end quickly too.
Yeah? Why? Don ’ t you like living with me?
A 9:12 flight in the morning and a 14:00 flight in the afternoon.
Tell me what you've been doing.
listen, if you give me a raise, I'll take on extra responsibilities.
Hello! You're welcome to Guangzhou Fair.
I agree with you. It will cost too much when going abroad to join the exhibition.
Well, Corporate Agreement Savings will be based on the Agreement Deposit Contract signed by the customer and the bank together. So, this contract decides the terms and the line of basic deposit withheld while settling the account. So, if we look within the line of basic deposit, the interest should be counted at the rate of Current Deposit on the day of settlement or withdrawal.
come on, baby. It’s time now.
You should get plenty of sleep.
Then let's stay in a motel. I am sure you will like it.
Well, if you need anything, just ask.
I must be off now. I'm pressed for time.
Thank you, bye.
We really want to live in a lakeside home with a dock for our boat.
so what are you going to do about it?
And please send this letter by registered mail.
Hi, I come to pick up my laundry. This is the invoice.
You do realize that it isn't humanly possible for us to finish by next week?
I'm sorry, your visa has expired.
Oh, I like movies with surprise endings, although, sometimes they can be frustrating. Maybe I should invite my girlfriend to go next weekend.
Thanks. Now I ’ d like to check out this book.
Relax. I can hold my own. Now, point your skis toward the bottom of the hill. Easy does it!
She's pretty and meek.
I have a deposit account with my bank. There are some restrictions on withdrawing money, but the interest rate is much higher.
OK! I will try this.
You are sort of romantic.
Which function do you use more, making calls or sending short messages?
I'm doing fine.Don ' t mind me.It ' s a wonderful birthday party.Everyone is enjoying himself.
Aw, that's sweet! I knew your costume would be a success.
What kind of vegetable do you want?
What am I doing? What am I doing? Don ’ t you know what day it is?
Sorry, I am not sure, can I take a message?
Good morning, sir. Are you Mr. Wang, the personnel manager?
If you bring some ID with you, it's possible for you to make a withdrawal over the counter if you need to. But unfortunately, without your new card you cannot use the ATM, so all withdrawals must be made within working hours.
OK, wait for a moment. Well, I am sorry, but we are not authorized to exchange coins because it is low and we do not have enough foreign coins. In this case, you'd better change 2,000 $ to Swiss francs.
That's fine. I can make it.
Can I try this lipstick?
What working experience have you got?
It..., I think the neighbor on the right.
By the way, does acupuncture hurt?
That's okay.
It’s challenging, I feel I have learned a lot.
I'm afraid I don't. I'm quite new in town.
OK. Bingo! We win. Give me five, Mom.
This sweater is so pretty. I love the low neck design.
Yeah, you get the TV to yourself while I spend my nights surfing the Net for missing classmates.
Excuse me, but can you tell me the way to the Today Mall?
I'll appreciate it so much.
As a rule we don ’ t allow any commission. But if the order is a substantial one, we ’ ll consider it.
Ok, it's a date then!
Here's your ticket and your boarding card.
And maybe you suddenly have new interests. I mean you suddenly begin to do things you used to avoid. For instance, you used to sleep in every morning, but because she jogs every morning then you begin to like jogging.
Sure, what would you like?
Wow, not long. Where do you live? With a family?
How do you know that?
The city is small, not very modern, but there are many mountains with lots of trees around the city, so the air there is pretty fresh.
That ’ s too bad. She ’ s been so kind to us all.
you said it. Good beer, good music, and on top of that, there are so many hot girls here!
I'm not sure. Could you measure me, please?
Could you be a little more specific, sir?
Right, she is so excited and simply can ’ t wait.
it was horrible! It was just one thing after another.
This ref needs glasses. Hey ref, open your eyes! I can ’ t believe he didn ’ t see that!
Yes, but I have unusually big feet. That wouldn't be too much of a problem except that they're also very wide, and only a few brands sell shoes that I can fit into.
What was the score?
Have a great trip.
Racist? Not exactly. It's how they look at me and ask for my opinion on a topic, as if I can speak for all black people and give them the black opinion on a subject. Suddenly I become the representative of the black race, as if we all had the same opinion.
Here are the stamps and your receipt.
Aright. Do you have any cigarettes?
Would you like us to deliver the mattress for you?
I'm just not looking forward to cleaning it!
Well, we are rather full, sir. I'm not sure if I'll be able to find a vacant room.
Yes, I know where the bookstore is.
Oh, I just wanted to see if you wanted to hang out tomorrow.
Should I take a look at your battery?
That's not true. Most of the students and professors in the university here use Macintosh. They find it is better for writing and word-processing, and that is what students mostly do. May I ask where you're from?
Thank you, Mr. Smith.
Would you like an extra blanket?
Yes, it is. It's brilliant.
When it comes to the entertainment, I think I enjoy dancing. There is nothing I like more than modern dance.
Yes, you can take the No. 5 bus over there. Get off at the next stop.
I guess that's OK. What time should I check in?
What's the matter? It doesn't taste good?
Where are you coming from?
What ’ s the point? We always make a new year ’ s resolution and by February we will have forgotten about it. It’s pointless.
I know. He's usually here, but today he went out to a site on the east side.
This broth is wonderful. What's in it?
You want to withdraw on your Time Deposit, right?
And milk or orange juice?
No problem. I'll tell you about our alternatives.
All my games are so lame, Mom. When can I get a new one?
That stamp you've been looking for is for sale.
Do you need it for the whole weekend?
Oh, thanks a lot.
I'm going to need to see your ID.
No. They want children but no luck yet.
have you heard of Hot Fuzz?
Great! Would you like your second pizza to be these as the first?
Great. My assistant will wash your hair, and then I'll be back to help you.
I have so much house work to do. I have to take care of the kids, cook, clean, laundry, and the cycle never ends.
Very nice. He gets along with his classmates very well.
Well, let's finish this great dinner first.
Yes. After my graduation from university, I worked as a Customer Service Coordinator in a foreign representative office, and then I transferred to a joint venture as a Market Development Manager. So I am familiar with the market in China.
let's go out for a walk.
Hey, wouldn't it be great if we could go to Thailand together sometime?
For instance, the mobile phone seriously distracts the attention of people from work and study.
I'm afraid we can't return it by 11 o'clock.
so, you must be pretty interested in photography then.
Do you have enough money in your account?
I wanted to see if you wanted to come.
It's not as simple as that. People judge you by your appearance, whether you like it or not. So dressing professional is being professional. The image that you portray to others is so important in business. It's your image and how others perceive you that makes the difference between landing or losing a sale.
Excuse me, haven't we met somewhere before?
Hopefully, I'll make it to the next one.
May I just have a look, to see if there is anything else?
Great – That ’ ll be big help.
Merry Christmas, Bill!
Anything else, Mr. Smith?
Could Dr.Cole like to attend the party?
Take your pick, Julie.
It is nice, but it would be nicer if my macho husband would get off his tush and help me. Ha-ha... Have this. It's from Italy!
Yes it is down there, at the end of the road, next to the supermarket.
Good morning. I'd like to speak to Peter. Chen Please.
I am worried about how I am going to pay my tuition.
It's about 5 kilometers.
So, if I was strapped for cash, I could transfer it to get some money?
It's no picnic.
Ms Ling! It's Mr Gwent, from Montgomery Computers.
Yes. And now I'm down to either taking a class I'm not going to need or considering a double major.
Can you do push-ups?
Why, Christine? I think the one we have is fine.
Well, it would be spacious and located next to a park, because a nice view is important to me.
Is this a temporary job or something more permanent?
You can speak English fluently but I wonder if you can deal with bookkeeping and accounting in English.
Quite right. Have you noticed that a high IQ is not a must for one's success?
What would you like, sir?
Ah, It’s hard to say.
Is that so? Anyhow I want to go over the details with you in person, so you can give my suggestion thorough consideration. Our firm specializes in this line of business. We have six sales representatives, who are on the road all the time, covering the whole of the European market.
What are your terms of payment?
I'd much rather buy expensive but good quality clothing, because it is not only nice but lasts a long time.
could you show me where the Chinese-style clothing is located? I want to buy a silk coat.
Did you like your work?
Daddy, we can't have a photo of the whole family. We can take one here.
That all depends on what you like to do. For example, I like to doodle on the notepad, so I'm thinking about doing some real drawings.
Good morning, Mr Bell. How are you today? Are you here to sort out your L / C documents?
Water is rationed. We can only use a certain amount each month. It means that we cannot use some modern household items, like washing machines. They use too much water.
At the Cashier's Counter of our hotel, right in the lobby downstairs.
Shall we discuss the packing? You know, a well-designed package helps sell the goods, so the products must not only be superior in quality, but also attractive in appearance. I'd like to see the sample of packing.
Do you mind if I come over to use your computer?
What are your future plans and what kind of expectations do you have of the company?
When do you turn in for the night?
So our evenings will be quite full then?
Well, let me see some of each.
It's getting late, and I have to go now.
What are your responsibilities in your present work?
Here you go. By the way, is it possible to cash them before the maturity comes up?
Ok, hold it. Remember to be punctual next time 。
Oh, It’s fine. I ’ Ve got a very nice secretary and a large pleasant office.
You look great. Your make-up is perfect.
I got major FOMO from missing that the concert.
I think Euros will be the best, as I'll only be in Mainland Europe.
how many bedrooms would your dream home have?
I'll pick a shampoo that's just right for your hair type. Sit right here, and rest your neck on the side of the sink. Is the water too hot?
And I score three of them.
Let me see... Your plane leaves from gate 8 so you should go there to board the plane.
This sheet tells the visiting hours and funeral time and location.
Does a warranty come with this music box?
I think we should buy some souvenirs to take home.
I haven't thought it over at all.
That ’ s right. I have a lot to learn from you.
Take me to Hilton Hotel.
It must be strange for you to live in Taiwan.
I usually only have 2 beers.
I'm happy to hear that, sir. Your reservation is all set except for your phone number.
Yes, I like using chopsticks.
I think Bill Clinton is a good president.
Excuse me, but I want a pair of mittens.
We could take the subway, but we'd have to go three stops along one line and then change trains twice.
Hello, thank you for taking the time to interview me.
All right, Sir.
Only all right?
Can I help you with something?
That's my favourite. Do you want to have some wine or beer?
Why don't you park in the parking structure for students?
I ’ m sorry I can ’ t make it.Thank you anyhow.
Unfortunately, no, I can't. But our specialist can. Please take a seat and our Mortgage Adviser will come out to see you.
If you are selected for the position, you must prepare to travel overseas frequently.
Wow, and all the key points are included in them? You're so smart!
He's a member of the National Basketball Association.
You know that fruits and vegetables are very healthy foods?
I didn't know you liked old movies.
That's very nice of you.
Oh, yeah, they get to be in a movie for the whole world to see!
Non-tariff barrier is another mean to restrict imports.
Let me say something about the falling Australian Dollar. We're both hurt by the rising U. S. Dollar. We will have to pay more Renminbi for U. S. Dollar to buy wool from you.
Then what do you think about it?
Have a good one.
Yes. I have been with ABC Insurance Company for four years, and before that, I worked with the Pacific surveyor company as claim officer.
Yeah, I will. See you then!
I don't know why I cannot take a step forward.
I introduced an advanced product line, which increased the output and lessened the cost.
I'm glad. Now, there's a deposit fee of two month's rent.
Where are you employed?
OK! How about Scrabble?
Okay, show me your card hand. Here's mine. I have three Kings and a pair of Aces.
According to what you did last time, I have my doubts.
Really? I have been there several times.
Hi, are you Catherine?
Good. See you later.
Does that mean studying all the time?
I want to effect payment under an L / C today.
Really? What did you get one for?
A company account. I need to pay a bill.
You take care of your employees. And your company offers good salaries and benefits.
Do people usually buy frozen vegetables in your country, It’s very rare in mine.
And the other company that gave me a quote on this said they could do it for 4000 dollars.
Well, I guess we'd better grab our umbrellas then, as well.
Come in please.
What have you learned?
You know that I have no secrets toward you.
Cheer up, I hope you'll feel better soon.
Why not go to the supermarket today, the coupon will be past due in three days.
I need to eat something.
That works for me! I will call you when I get into town to reconfirm.
If you go to Altadena Drive, you can catch it there.
How much would it cost to send this special delivery to England?
I want some envelopes please.
I always think everybody looks down on me
Fine. I miss you so much, uncle Benjamin.
You can't prick the fish to please the sick tastes of some bloody people.
Well, Jim. It is a combination of how much you eat, the type of food you eat, and when you eat your meals.
Thank you for coming so quickly.
I'm sorry to hear it. What's wrong with her?
Hopeful! Thank you.
Are cherries on sale today?
I would like to have a new suit made. something in a dark blue wool.
I know, I ’ m really sorry that I missed the deadline. But really, it wasn ’ t my fault. You see, we had all of these unexpected technical problems at the last minute, and that I couldn ’ t get into the database and extract the kind of information that I needed for the data analysis. You know, if the tech guys would have done their job and kept the ARM stable, then I wouldn ’ t have missed my deadline.
What about cab drivers and porters?
I know, it does sound pretty awesome.
Miss Wang, would you mind my asking you a personal question?
Okay – that ’ s 232-2453, or 232-2456.
Well, I ’ d like to have my coat to order.Will you take my measurements?
Well, it's not as good as my French. I can speak it reasonably well, but my written Spanish isn't very good.
So you can't go with us, right?
The mushrooms were packed in small one pound plastic bags, sixty of these bags to a carton. It is stated on the surveyor? s report that external conditions of goods at the time of survey are all sound and intact. So it is obvious the cause of the damage is that the mushrooms were not completely dried before packing.
This is my luggage, but it's too heavy. I can't move it. Could you help me get it out of the conveyer belt?
Very good. You will normally be sent an official notification of the results of your interview by post. Once you get the notification, you can come.
We won't have much time, so let's play somewhere close to work.
Oh, thank you. I want one.
Look, the printer isn ’ t functioning well. I ’ Ve pushed the start button. It is suppose to be working now but it remains like a log. What ’ s going on?
I think I am. I left the job only because it was too far from my home.
Did you hear that they are going to start an exercise class after work?
How about its taste?
What are they doing in Beijing?
We will need the reservation for Tuesday night.
Yes, we do offer that package.
I wonder how the burglar did it.
Not a problem. Anything else?
Nice meeting you, too. Good-bye.
I'm not sure.Medium, I suppose.Maybe a little on the heavy side.
Yes, I agree. We can see the scenery better. In a bus, all you see are the roads.
We've got very good workshop facilities here. We do all our own servicing and most repairs. We have separate areas for welding, grinding and sawing.
Ok. Let ’ s look at our short presentation on China. What do we need to include?
would you like to look at the new digital camcorders that have just come in?
He still doesn ’ t know that Santa isn ’ t real? How old is he, eight?
Can I make one right now?
OK. I'll try on a medium size.
The subscription fee is charged at a rate of 1.2 %. But for redeeming, a rate of a usual 0.5 %, we shall charge you 1.6 % if you apply to buy it after the fund-raising period.
Yes, I think so. But there is also something terrible.
What a pity. I believe it's a very good film.
Do you write or call them very much?
Be careful. You can't smoke here.
I'd rather use the CIF terms.You ' re welcome to come to talk about it in detail with your general manager and sign a contract.
The check in time is 2 p. m. If you get here before that time the room won't be ready.
Squid balls? How about some more fruit!
I agree. Hopefully with the new regulations, fewer athletes will try to cheat with drugs.
Excuse me, would you tell me who that girl is?
This is ordinary marriage life.
I've always admired this book.
It's your turn to go first.
Hello, ABC Company. Can I help you?
No way! I spent 20 years of my life with relatives around me 24-7. You know, I don't think I've ever actually spent any time by myself in my parents ' home. What do you think fo the one-child policy
Well, how about like this?
Maybe. I don't know.
I want to work in the English Department, as I am an English major.
OK... and what deposit do I need? I mean, is there a minimum deposit?
I ’ ll be here for approximately three weeks. See, here ’ s my return ticket for the twenty-sixth of March.
I will give it a try at once.
That's right. OK, let's move on.
I want to go to Broadway and 82nd Street.Can I take any bus that comes along?
Have you a bus tour round the city?
I ’ m temping at a pharmaceutical company.
Special effects? Baloney! That movie was made on a shoestring budget. They've been using trick photography like that for years
Yes, we have both the paperback and hardcover.which would you want to buy?
Oh, no! I'm leaving for Japan at 11 this morning.
No, of course not. I already bought them a present.
She ’ s your sister.What she asked was only duck soup for you.Why can ’ t you be good to her?
Thank you very much. Here is 500 dollars.
It kept me awake a couple of hours.
Probably my parents.
You've been so helpful. Thank you.
My grades weren ’ t good enough to go here.
thank you for wonderful meat.
Just leave them outside the door. We will take care of it.
Well, I love hip hop dancing, so I should probably dance. Do you know how to rap?
We have a special where you can order a second appetizer for half price.
Actually, they are small dumpling balls made of glutinous rice flour. They are like Tangun.
Our room hasn't been cleaned up yet.So would you send one of your house keepers to clean up our room.
Very comfortable. I think I will come next time. Maybe I will take some friends. Amazing!
Ask Daniel to give you a hand?
No, they live in Shanghai, my hometown.
Welcome to the McDonald's. What will it be for you, madam?
Yes, I ate some cake.
Well, you really didn't do all that well.
What for? Oh, I see, you mean next year our company will expand business to the South Korea market.
It is 260 dollars.
I do hope this undesirable incident will not stand in the way of our future business.
I like science most.
I don't care. I have a headache.
He looks tired all the time.
You're going to re-sell it on eBay Taiwan?
Oh, I see. You ’ Ve already decided, have you? Now, you listen to me, you ’ re only 19.
so, tell me about your new house. How is it different to your old one?
There's nothing I can do about that.
I once read a story about a person who talked to animals. It was very interesting.
Each ring has 3 small diamonds inside the band.
Oh, okay. Thanks.
And English is very useful in your job.
I guess I'm a bit old-fashioned. I'd rather have my parents live with me than live in a retirement room.
Hi, chary, are you busy this evening?
But doesn't a realtor help with the contract? I thought they take care of all the legal troubles.
Thank you, Mr. Davis.
Sounds great! Can you stop somewhere here for a minute? I will get some souvenirs for my friends.
Oh, is it? You'll be making records next, will you?
I've been looking forward to visiting your factory.
Kate is very good at diving from a height of 10 meters.
Oh, I guess I'm a little confused.
I'd like to apply for a personal loan.
Have you any definite idea?
Yes. Do you accept traveler's checks?
You must have realized somebody was here.
Yes. Is it OK with you?
Welcome to Bill ’ s Fabric World. What can I do for you today?
I think so. I can't find it anywhere in my hotel room and I remember the last place I used it yesterday was in this department store.
Excuse me. Something is wrong with my bank card. Can you help me?
OK, here's your question What movie won the 1996 Oscar for Best Picture?
It’s true.
Yes, I would be happy to answer a question about payment. What do you need help with?
OK. Dose it include breakfast?
OK. The X2500 has the unique feature of providing better data flow with less input time. It will reduce your work load at the office.
If I were him, I wouldn't brazen it out by asking my parents for money.
Hello, miss. Where is the button that controls my seat?
May I see your ticket and photo ID?
Where should I change for the Park?
It sells almost everything you can see in the department.
I'd like to try some Chinese food.
Here are $ 40. Keep the change. That's my tip for you.
Actually, the company will provide you with all of these supplies. So, you can leave this very thick notebook at home.
it would be better for the environment, too.
I would like to have it done this Friday.
How do I check out my status to collect unemployment?
Stop acting like this. Say away!
It does seem like the perfect day! I ’ m glad we chose to get out of the city and enjoy the nice weather! This looks like the perfect spot! Ok kids, put on your sunscreen while your mom and I set up camp. Here, Mary, help me lay down these beach towels.
my computer just crashed again for the third time today!
I wish I'd put it in the bank.
Yes, I have been thinking about it for quite a while. Now I finally make up my mind to leave. I have given my resignation letter to our boss last Friday.
I have to be there before 1700.
Right, and what about our friendliness and attitude?
In 2004, I got a job in the sales department of a trading company near Guangzhou. I started a sales representative. A year later, I was promoted to the position of sales manager. I had that job ever since, which is just over a year now.
I'm just thinking about that, but the trouble is, I don't know who is well in the know.
Let's look at our menus.
Yes, right here.
Is she attractive? I don ’ t think I know anyone like that.
Hi, Carlos. What are you doing this afternoon?
Either something in the hotel business or something to do with travel.
Thanks, how about the green and black one?
All right. Let's change it. Tomorrow afternoon at three. I am going to schedule it for that time and inform Mr.Liu about the change.
I think you're being a little naive.
Is that all?
I like to open up a savings account please.
And how many accounts would I handle?
Don't you want to go to the visiting hours? This sheet says they are tonight.
What can I help you with today?
Deal, Where is Gucci?
No problem. Have a good one.
I thought you didn't talk to them much.
I met Amanda through a friend.
Thanks. I know things are going to be better.
Hey, that's a really nice outfit you have on.
I think the Romans do what everyone else does.
' All-you-can-eat ' dinner special.
Better visit the supermarket then. We'll need some other things for the party. Get some vanilla ice cream, some butter and some vinegar and twelve bottles of beer.
Of course. It's 33234. That will put you in touch with a Personal Banker.
I wonder what we should have for dinner this evening.
Great. Are there any landmarks nearby?
Not too good, I'm sorry.
Here are our passports and tickets.
I'm going to go sit in the car while I still have the stomach to walk.
Sally, what do we have for dinner
Tell me something about a time when you did something well, something you feel proud of.
We must set 1000 dollars aside each month.
That's the one. It's an actioncomedy. What do you think?
Hello, this is Quinn from IBA.
Mao Tai and Qingdao Beer.
Oh, sorry. I didn ’ t know.
Red restaurant. Do you want to make a reservation?
Sure. It's 289,1234.
Can it go in an envelop?
I've actually never tried. Do you have a surfboard?
Mr.Sun, would you mind if I ask you some questions, which may sound impolite?
John got a heart attack last night.
What's the matter with you, Mary? You look a bit pale.
I think that I might be interested in that position.
I think he might. You'd better go to his office.
How old are your children?
Do you take in students?
Ryan says he wants to stay. I think he's in love with some girl who designs fruit platters...
That sounds fine. I'll be there around seven.
I have also got them ready for the lecture.
Yeah, my roommate likes to watch me play. He says it's like watching a movie.
What's your mailing address?
It is in that brand new, tall building over there. On the 9th floor.
I think the government can afford it. Besides, there are many advantages. Homeless people would find it easier to get jobs if they had an address. They would learn some useful skill for finding jobs i
that's pretty harsh.
R-I-N?
Do you believe that classified ads in the newspaper are the most effective way to search for a job?
Come on, John. This is my favorite show.
Sorry, we don't. But I think you can fly on Northwest Airlines to Berlin and then have a connecting flight on Canada Airline to Toronto. And it is the most economical flight, just 1,900 dollars.
I know it's old, but what make is it?
I could help pay for it.
what? How could you forget to reserve the concert tickets?
I've paid the duty. Here is the receipt
Is it the same practice for all families?
Of course. First dial the code 011 to get an international line. Then you dial Taiwan's country code
Well, I am up to my neck in work. I've got to finish this report. Sarah needs it by noon. I don't want to be scolded if I can ’ t finish my work by the deadline.
Hey, I started a diet and lost 10 pounds.
Great, take care.
What kind of note are you taking there. That looks like doodle to me.
Maybe so, but it seems kind of strange, which the rest of us in white shirts, dark suites, and ties.
no, I can handle it. Thanks anyway.
Yes, I do. The look of a picture is very important.
I don't want to talk about it.
Wow. That's really good. And you think this is really a good system for a graduate student?
We haven't made up our minds. Will you come with us?
Hello. Can I sit here?
What happened to this book?
Each of both.
Is Doctor Hawkins here? She ’ s our doctor. We called her from the car.
It is impossible. You cheated on me.
And he ’ s always busy with his pictures and roses.
Is this where I can catch a bus to the theater?
How's the weather there today?
I fixed a big problem with a machine and saved a lot of money for the factory. I got bonus for it.
Yes, I noticed that. To what extent would local assembly help sales, did you say?
what do you think about abortion?
OK, thanks. Look forward to seeing you on Friday, then.
I think we'll be better off if we are apart.
OK. Let's make it.
I really thought this was our stop.
I think he hasn't made any new friends yet. He's just a little lonely.
Did you come late?
Three seats, please.
How about some salad to go with your chicken?
Yes. Nice to meet you!
I agree with you, but that's easier said than done.
Just a moment, please. Yes, you have a room reservation for you.
It's really there? This all seems so surreal-like it's all one big nightmare.
There ’ s an interesting interview with a top fashion designer about the latest fashions. I enjoyed reading her thought. The which? section is very interesting this month. They tested facial cleaners. T
I'm right outside my room.
I'm a quick leamer, Mr.Jenkins.
The language used in this multinational company is mainly about English ; do you think you can manage to handle that?
OK. I will pay it by my bank card.
I ’ m very fond of you.
How much in total?
I've got to catch the last bus. See you later.
Thank you so much for all of the information.
Sure, When is good time for you?
Barbie dolls are quite popular, you know.
Fine, we'll be expecting you then.
So do I. This is Broadway.There are lots of theaters. This way leads to Times Square.
I will. Where can I leave my luggage? I really want to leave after lunch.
Supervisor. Open the door.
Where do i put the money in?
No, you don't have to. Here comes the train.
Ok! You know you're always welcome here. Did you enjoy your stay?
Yeah. That ’ s a good idea and you like to cook. What about the books?
No, but you never know when you'll need a flashlight.
Cheer up! What I meant was that you can find it sometime during a week. There is no need to write a new one. Oh, what's this? Is this your dissertation?
Is it possible for you to reduce the price?
Well, I am gaining weight these days, and I have to watch my calories.
No, just a few minutes.
I am going to be a, well, I hope to be a research chemist.
Religions preach tolerance, but many wars are caused by intolerant religious fanatics.
I went hiking and have terrible poison oak.
I'm afraid this seat is taken.
Of course not. You know, there are many foreign customers like you here. And I think it's good for me to improve my oral English.
I heard that some people in England are pleased with the fact that the climate is becoming warmer because it's making their towns a more pleasant place to live.
That's right. It's over there.
Oh, do you? Good.
Shall we go out tomorrow then?
Are you looking for a space on or off campus?
I hope to do a little gardening. I find it very relaxing.
Hello, Sara are you finished packing yet? Do you need a hand?
I took a cooking class at the Culinary Institute.
Well, did you know he was also the director of The Terminator?
What's the big deal?
It’s my honor to be one member of your company. I ’ d like to begin to work any time as you like.
I've never given a speech in front of a thousand people before.
I'd like to send this parcel to Spain, please.
Where is your native place?
That's really convenient. We were wondering if you could take a little off the rent, though.
What about the trip? Do you enjoy yourself?
What is the most important factor?
do you have a balcony?
Wo will deliver the goods to you for free.
I had a wonderful experience with the conference.
What section did you work in?
Hello, I'm returning your phone call.
I know you have done a lot, but you always sleep very late. Sleeping eight hours a day doesn't mean it is healthy. Sleeping after 12 is hurtful to our body, and I think this is your problem.
Could you arrange a meeting with your boss?
Excuse me, Miss.
I hope I can fly to any place like superman. So I can touch the sky.
I don ’ t really consider any of that to be my responsibility. You can fix those things yourself.
Well, we offer 60 - day or 90 - day loans. The balance of the loan is to be repaid in full by the end of the specified period.
See you around.
What sort of proof do you need?
I got them for forty.
Well, what's the matter with you?
Wow! You are much skinnier since the last time I saw you.
But what are the sources of water pollution?
I will. Will you be voting?
Well, I want to earn more.
I feel the same way. It smells so good after it rains.
What are your symptoms?
No, you have to change trains at Birmingham.
no, I don't have anything to declare.
And about time too.
Really? How much is it? Oh, it's 42 yuan! How expensive!
No I didn ’ t. I worked in the morning then I played tennis with my husband.
Yeah, history, what about you?
You only say that because you don't have to work with him.The people in your department seem so capable and nice to be around.Take Mary for example.She ' s smart and enthusiastic. I've never met anyone as cheery as she is.
Really? Have you left it in your room?
Did you see his last dive?
I forgot what I put up with in that case. I do deserve these flowers.
Sure, I'll give them a bath.
I'm in the mood for some chips and salsa.
oh, I guess I'll let you through then.
Well, thanks a lot for your help.
I ’ Ve already tried some but it didn ’ t help.
It's nine o'clock now. And I'll wait for him.
I have been absented from many classes this semester just because of my work in the Students ' Government.
Yes, I can see. The summer heat is over, and the winter cold is still far away.
Don't worry, I'll make sure and get to sleep in a little while.
I think Mr. White would be elected, you know he has spent millions in this campaign and he blasted the opposition in his campaign speech.
That ’ s interesting. They must be thinking of moving into that market. Are there any interesting editorials?
I don ’ t think that there is any easy way. The united nations could send peacekeepers into the country. At least then the warring parties could be forced to negotiate. The thing is to find the real problem form the war and solve that.
Well, as far as I can see, the advantages outweigh the disadvantages. You've sold me! I'd like to go ahead.
I am sorry, but I can't lend it to you now, for I haven't finished reading it. If you don't mind, I can lend you some back numbers to you.
Wow, you really do have a talent for this, Alice. Thanks for the suggestions.
And you still buy him new ones?
Yes, it is. I'll be coming here regularly. I think I need regular exercise to get in shape and then to stay in shape.
Let's play chess.
Oh really? I ’ ll come along with you if that ’ s ok.
Thank you very much, by the way, is it quite expensive to take a taxi?
Hi, you said that you might need some help with preparing dinner.What would you like me to do?
Of course. I will find you one.
I'm planning to visit New York from Friday, April 14 until Monday, April 17.
Yeah, that sounds right.
It's nearly 12:00 now. Will I be charged extra?
It’s up on the second floor. You have to use the stairs. The elevator isn ’ t working.
Well, do what you like to do. It can be anything. Jogging, doing aerobics, going bicycling, and playing ping-pong. Absolutely anything. Doing three or more workouts a week is good for you. But remember to do some stretches first.
Hello. I am Bili and I made an appointment with you to see the house.
This is your luggage check Which You must show when you disembark at your destination and here is your boarding pass and your ticket.
how about at 6 pm?
Is this your handbag?
Now, I've got it. Thank you.
That ’ s fine. Is it OK to have a coffee break during the working day?
I think we're finished. Can you please turn off the lights and shut the door?
I think that many physicians now agree with that idea.
How's the weather today?
yes, but with our sense we'll always look good.
what should I bring with me?
I suppose you're right. They also used to think that they were so important that the sun revolved around them, not the other way around.
Yes, miss. What was the problem with your purchase?
Then, why do you want to work for our bank since it's a new establishment in Shanghai?
Sure. That'll be 40 yuan, please.
Mr. Brown. We were expecting you. This way, please. Will this table be fine?
You don't need to worry about that.
Here are all kinds of jades. Choose whatever you like, please.
It depends on the job. It's actually more cost-effective than buying specialist equipment that we don't use very often.
I can assure you that such a thing today will never happen again in future delivery. We have made the plan to improve the package of our exported goods.
And could you tell me what other jobs you have had?
I'm pretty sure I'll be all right. In fact, I'd be delighted to come over and celebrate your birthday with you.What time are you planning to start?
But don't forget to give me a ring.
Thanks. See you at school tomorrow if you feel better.
What about Flight 516?
I've not heard of that, could you tell me more, please?
Thank you very much. If your price is suitable, then we can make further discussion of contract.
What part hurts?
but there's a lovely view.
Come to my house this Sunday. My mom will not be at home then. We can cook some wonderful fried food by ourselves!
I bought it on a street market. A real bargain!
No one has ever tried to show me how to play a sport before.Maybe I should learn to do something.
is everything ready now?
Well, if it's not broken, then you need to learn how to vacuum better, because it doesn't look like you've vacuumed for ages!
Maybe some of it. I think a lot of people blame TV and movies when the real problem is that the parents aren ’ t bringing their child up correctly.
Oh, come on. Jane is a very nice girl, someone you meet only once till lifetime.
I'm gonna get a relaxer, then flip the ends up like Halle.
I prefer spring when little by little everything becomes green and the weather is almost always nice.
No, we are just too different. This relationship isn't going anywhere.
Oh, don't mention it. I'm proud of you!
Yeah, so I have to buy presents for everyone before I leave.
Hey! But that's not the only problem. There's also the affirmative action stigma.
I thought it was pretty good.
Maybe you should start seeing someone else.
I got your meaning. Reading is your own solution to solve pressure from busy tasks.
No, thanks, maybe another time.
Ah yes, I can see it now. Where are the cups?
The suspect is number four.
MYOMA? What's that?
Oh, he did? May I have his forwarding address, please?
What about coming back? I'd like to come back about 7 p. m.
How would your colleagues evaluate you?
I thought the starting salary is too low.
Of course. We are already out of our motherland.
Which buses will I have to take?
We'll miss you. I hope we'll keep in touch.
What about the smaller components?
Hopefully it will.
You're from New York, aren't you?
No. Not right now. When I feel better I ’ ll call you again.
Please get ready.
Don ’ t you know our movie starts at seven? And we were going to meet at the theater at five to seven. Then it doesn ’ t make sense to meet at the apartment.
Mary, Pam and I are going to the mall later to buy some new clothes. Do you want to come?
About 3 000 dollars.
No, I thought it too dull. Also I didn't think it was challenging enough.
You are funny!
It's been nice talking to you.
Whose name did you pick?
good afternoon, madam. How can I help you?
Ok, I'll wait for you at 7pm at home. Anything else?
You look really wiped out.
Excuse me. What are these charges?
Hello, this is my passport.
I've been learning Japanese every evening.
Can it keep going?
Let's step in, Dad.
I'd like to begin to work any time you want.
I think so. I see it by the radio this morning.
I've got the details here. 10,000 RIB sent by Mr CK Chen from Guangzhou. Could I see some ID? You passport, for example?
Almost three weeks.
Yes. I heard he had a few broken bones too, but that the doctors have set the fractures without any problems.
But thats only in the cities, isnt it?
We offer many different sea water treatments.
Could I have the check, please?
Alright, tell me what you think.
It departs Guangzhou at 10:30 on the morning of July 10.
No. My friend did.
It's on the third floor. Turn left when you get off the escalator.
It's two yuan.
I have a taste for something sweet.
Small? But it should be enough for our needs, I think.
Oh, this one looks really good. And look at the garden. So beautiful.
Lisa, can I call Taiwan?
Your backpack is very big and today's flight is quite full. I am afraid that you will have to check your backpack too.
What can I get you?
I remember now. Your advice is very helpful.
I know you're right. School is more important than TV. Can I watch one more show, then go to bed.
Who is responsible for the accident? Is it Tony ’ s fault?
I didn't plan on cooking tonight.
No, thank you. She has big enough eyes as it is.
Me too. Is there a place nearby that we can get something to eat?
OK, that will be OK.
Better take the subway. It's far quicker and more convenient.
But if the tea is good and well prepared, it will do much good.
Hold the line, please.Mr Wood is in the meeting with managing director at the moment I afraid.Can I help you?
That's all. Thank you for your co-operation.
Please do. I'll be waiting for your reply.
You know all about coffee. I need your advice, so I won't look stupid when I order.
No, I ’ m not sure I ’ m going to.
When can my apartment be painted and ready to go?
Why? Is there some new, cool computer out on the market?
Do you have a package that includes all the movie channels with the basic channels also?
Let me check the list. Yes, we do have a reservation under Mr. Tim.
Yeah.It ' s a must for me.
Thank you so much. By the way, is there a mail service?
OK. Everything is in the bag.
We seem to be lost here.
And I can concentrate on my study after the relaxation over the weekend.
Is this the latest edition?
You can't prove that by me. I saw the score on your report.
That shouldn't be a problem.
Oh. it's too late. Maybe I should go to other video stores to have a look.
Sorry, but no jeans here.
Oh, my God! What's this?
It's on at 8 pm at the Phoenix Theatres. I have a membership there, so I can book the tickets ahead of time.
You can do it right now, if you ’ d like.
May I have a look at this?
I hate it and I was about to withdrawal. But after hearing your experience, I think I will tough it out.
C'mon, don't take it seriously! I'm just kidding.
Now he only works freelance. Hundred bucks an hour.
That ’ s great. But I prefer to put my money somewhere where the returns are more certain.
I've been packed for a week. All my stuff is in this backpack.
How about a love story then?
Yes. What size are you?
Yes. Because the customers are mostly Americans.
It's 150 yuan per day including a 10 % service charge.
Definitely. It's a wonderful meal. Thank you, Honey.
I'm nervous as can be.
What do you find annoying?
So I know. Thanks.
No, really. I'm not in the mood for it.
He's very nice, actually, but rather eccentric.
It is easier for me to take off work in the afternoon.
I was late getting back from the mall, but I ’ m hurrying.
30 dollars, ma'am.
Yesterday I read hamlet.such a fantastic book!
That's true. I know that there are lots of popular restaurants and coffee shops around there.
That might not be ideal because there would be some drawbacks to an annual contract situation that might make it difficult to sell to our buyers. What about free delivery? If we make a large enough order, could you waive the deliver fee?
I can't believe you are watching movies. The weather is great. You should be outside.
Could you give me some advice?
Didn't you have a crash?
Yeah, my grandmother gets by on social security and the money my grandfather invested when he was alive.
She still loves him. That's why she feels upset. Her love is always hard and confusing...
It's already half past eleven. You have school tomorrow. You'll sleepy all tomorrow, if you don't sleep well tonight.
Alright, alright. I ’ m coming.
Sure.It will depart 2 hours later.
I wonder why not. We could always revise the suggestions, to take into account any objections.
well, do you think I could leave a message for him?
Excuse me, I am a transit passenger for flight PB965, can you tell me where to go?
No. Utilities are extra.
Very good, sir. A table for 6 at 8: 00 this evening. May I have your name, please?
The Department of Motor Vehicles office is at 212 Barton Street North.
Yeah. I saw a science program. It was quite interesting.
Sorry sir, we will bring you one.Anything else?
I need some more amenities, please.
yeah, I suppose you wouldn't want to see that, huh?
Yes, of course. That ’ s quite an important point, isn ’ t it? As a junior sub editor we offer a starting salary of 150,000 HK dollars per annum. This doesn ’ t include a generous housing allowance also.
What kind of family are you like?
Did you join in any club activities?
Do you want a chicken, Mrs Bird? They're very nice.
It sounds so complicated!
What about the registration procedure? Is that complicated?
excellent! That sounds like a plan.
By air or by sea?
Are their cards free, too?
Does Jim need to make more money?
I ’ d just like to trim. Don ’ t cut too short.
Well. if you think I can help, let me know.
I'm afraid not. But at tomorrow's funeral, the family requested an open casket service.
I was thinking we should just go to the cafeteria.
Me? No way. I'm dedicated to the company, but I'm not going to leave Taiwan. I'm happy here.
I've absolutely certain.
What time does the next showing of Forrest Gump begin?
Here you are. Seventy-five cents, please.
Is there a problem?
Yes. We need a plumber here.
I've never been to such a dirty restaurant, and never seen such slow service.
Actually, it was just some leftovers from yesterday. I made far too much food to eat alone. I am glad you could come over to help me finish it.
I'm afraid playing the chess like that will soon make me an old man. I noticed that most chess players were bald.
A little bit.
Oh, yes. I love playing badminton, table tennis and computer games. And playing the games has become my favorite.
Well, we'd better get back to our seats. It's about to start.
Well, do you have the same in black?
Sure. It's a popular dish among young ladies.
Yes, very urgent. And there is no other fax machine around. And the office of our boss is closed, so I can not use his machine either. And his secretary is out. Do you have any suggestion?
What for? ( Why? )
Ok. The last piece is for your dessert. We're having dinner soon.
About five years old.
No! I said I was going to cut down which is very different. You can ’ t just expect me to go cold turkey overnight!
Victoria, you are back from vacation! How was it?
Could you tell me how to use the library?
Not at all. But I've found satisfaction in it!
Yes. I want to deposit some money into my Savings Account, please.
So, did you, did you lose your finger?
Aren't you staying for the party?
Well, it seems we have covered everything. We'll have the contract ready in a couple of days.
They say he can sum up like winking.
it usually goes to the dump.
A double room for the 12th? The name is Wilson?
Well, I wasn't planning on spending that much money today, so...
Exactly, maybe that'll teach you to respect my rules.
Maybe one month. Just have a try first. Not too tough at the beginning.
You have to take the math and English evaluation tests.
I suppose he won't come back until 6 p. m. By the way, do you want to call later, or would you like to leave a message?
I decided to give it a go!
No, I wouldn't think so.
No, he didn't!
Wow! They've got everything here. All the world's famous brands. Aunt Cindy, what is your favorite brand?
Yes, I know. I must get my traveler ’ s check and some foreign currency.
Sorry, we don't. I don't think you can find any airline which offers a non-stop flight to Tokyo.
Sure, honey. I'll read you a bed time story, too.
it sounds really complicated. No wonder it tastes so great.
World affairs? They look at the most important stories in more detail. I find it fascinating. Do you buy a daily paper?
Yes, it is. Thank you very much.
Hello. I'd like to have my nails manicured.
What else do we need?
I ’ Ve cut it upland come to the conclusion that hi is actually sick of Jenny ’ s brother. But he likes Jenny. She is a big apple in his eye.
Perhaps you should exercise more. Why don't you go to an exercise class?
Yes, on 4th street, near the movie theater there are many specialty shops, including clothing boutiques.
But what do you say about that?
We cover the insurance and half the transport fee, and only have a discount of 4 %.
Do you live in the red house at the end of the road?
well, that's something I've never heard of. But if you as me what I value most in a friend, I would have to say honesty.
art galleries, cathedrals, statues, fountains, palaces, bistros, there's really too much to say.
Well, then, please tell me about your English education.
I want to keep a pet, but I don't know which one to buy?
Yes, l have two of her Cds, l'II lend them to you if you like.
I see. I generally like movies to help calm me down. I think a sign of a good movie is the ability to bring you into the story as if you were part of it.
I like current affairs programs and documentaries, especially wildlife ones. How about you?
I can't stand making decisions. You choose!
I see. I'll have the lab techs run some tests to check for mono as well then. The burse will come in then to take your blood, we'll run some tests, and then you can go home. You should hear from us
I know. Don't remind me. I'm starting a new diet the day after tomorrow.
What do they need all that money for?
Yes, I think I will do something new. I ’ Ve always wanted to be a teacher.
He is a nice guy and very considerate. I was impressed with how smart he was and he has a great sense of humor.
Ok. I ’ m really bored at the moment.
Yes, it can make people feel as if they were in the land of fairies.
Now that we know what kind of music we will play, we have to decide what each of us will do.
Your best isn't good enough. Back in my day, I'd clean a whole hospital with a toothbrush and spit, and it'd be twice as clean as this sty!
They get higher level English, which is more formal than everyday spoken English. They also deal with matters of style and creativity.
Good, let's go for a drive.
do you know anyone in the play?
Show me a smaller pair of trousers, sir. I am not that fat, you see.
Wow, that much? Don't they have any public courses?
I guess you are right. maybe i just wish the weather could be a little more predictable.
Good moming.What can I do for you?
How may I help you. sir?
alright. See you later!
I dare you to say that again.
just joking. I would like to get a few bottles of beer though. We also need a liter of cooking oil.
Yes, I think so. But to be perfectly honest, I'm not really a sports nut.When I was in high school I played on the school volleyball team. Are you a diehard football fan?
I'm afraid...
It's OK now. Don't worry, John.
Yes, hello. Our company used your bank to send some documents to Malaysia last week. Could you check and see if the proceeds have come back yet, please? It's Sang Hung Enterprises, based in Kula Lump.
We have the equal partnership in team.
Next week? It is too late. I need it urgently.
Do you think so? I don ’ t like girls who look like that. I like girls who are not too slim. If you like her, go and talk to her.
Oh, you don ’ t usually have a starter?
Hey, Ray, what are you doing right now?
Don ’ t worry about a thing ; we are just taking a second look and talking.
Simbahan, nagakahangawa sa naganubo nga numero sang mga kaparian
Nagakahangawa sa karun ang Archdiocese of Jaro bangud sa naganubo nga numero sang mga kaparian sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Angelo Colada, Director sang Social Communication sang Archdiocese of Jaro, iya ginpakigahain nga madamo sa karun sang mga parochial church sa probinsya sang Iloilo ang nagaproblema sa kakulangan sang pari.
Colada nga masami nagaka-delay ang mga misa sa iban nga simbahan bangud wala sang mga pari nga magapatigayun sang misa.
Colada ang problema pinansyal bilang isa sa mga rason sa pagnubo sang numero sang mga pamatan-on nga nagasulod sa pagka-pari.
Matandaan nga nagpadulong si Jaro Archbishop Most Rev.
sa Northern Iloilo, particular sa Gigantes Island bangud sa panawagan sang isa ka tumuluo nga hatagan sang pagtamod ang pumuluyo sang Carles, Iloilo bangud halos wala sang pari sa amo nga lugar.
Bangud sini, nagsaulog sang Semana santa si Archbishop Billones sa isla Gigantes, kun sa diin mainit gid ini nga gin-abi-abi kag ginpasalamatan sang mga pumuluyo.
Sa karun, nagahimo sang nagkalain-lain tikang ang Archdiocese of Jaro, ilabi na ang pagpatigayun sang scholarship programs sa mga pamatan-un nga tuyo magsulod sa bokasyon sang pagka-pari agud nga mahatagan ang mga ini sang kahigayunan kag masolosyunan ang naganubo nga numero sang mga kaparian.
Beachgoers sa Iloilo subong nga Easter Sunday, ginabulubanta yara sa 10,000
Masobra 10,000 ka mga indibdiwal ang ginabulubanta nga nagpadulong sa mga beach resorts sa siudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo kahapon sang Domingo de Paskwa ukon Easter Sunday suno sa Philippine Coast Guard Iloilo Station.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ensign.
El John Ga, Spokesperson sang nasambit nga ahensya, iya ginpahayag nga Marso 28 pa lang, naka-activate na sila sang mga Malasakit Help Desk kag Baywatch patrol sa pila ka bahin sang Iloilo.
Ini agud nga masiguro nga layo sa katalagman kag may mapalapitan gid ang mga beachgoers sa tion sang emerhensya.
Subong nga nagsugod naman ang summer season, mangin adlaw-adlaw na ang paglibot sang PCG Iloilo sa sulod sang 24 ka oras agud nga mas mahatagan sang seguridad ang mga luyag mag-enjoy sang ila nga bakasyon sa mga beach resorts sa siudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo.
Pamilya sang nasunog nga lalaki sa Janiuay, desidido nga magpasaka sang kaso
Desido nga magpasaka sang kaso ang pamilya sang napatay nga biktima sa suspek nga nagsungka na sang Abril 4, matapos nga hungod sini nga ginsunog ang balay nga ginatiniran sang iya man pamilya sang Abril 2.
Ginkilala ang suspek kay Remos Brasileño, 31-anyos kag ang nagtaliwan naman nga biktima amo si Wilgie Macero.
Samtang padayun naman nga ginabulong sa ospital ang tatlo ka mga nasamaran sa insidente nga sanday Shiela Brasileño Macero, asawa sang napatay kag utod sang suspek kag ang duwa pa sini ka mga utod nga sanday Ivy Brasileño Perez, 35 anyos kag Richard Brasileño, 39 anyos.
Allen Camering, Law Enforcement Evaluation Officer II sang NAPOLCOM Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga posible nga pagapasakaan sang kaso ang suspek sang Arson with Homicide.
Suno kay Camering, madamo na ang nagareklamo sa suspek antes pa ang insidente bangud sa batasan sini nga kun makainom, indi na sini makontrol ang iya kaugalingon kag mahilig nga mangbisyo.
Ginpahayag man niya nga nagahinulsol gid ang suspek sa iya gin-ubra nga krimen kag handa na subong nga atubangon ang mga penalidad nga igahatag sa iya.
Mga tumuluo sa Carles, naapresyar gid ang pag-upod sa ila ni Most.
Naapresyar gid sang mga residente sang Northern Iloilo ilabi na sa banwa sang Carles, matapos nga nagselebrar kaupod sa ila si Most.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Shirley Bensurto, Presidente sang Parish Pastoral Council sang Santa Teresa de Avila sa nasambit nga banwa, iya ginpahayag nga sya amo ang babayi nga ginatumod nga tumuluo sang arsobispo nga nagsiling nga daw kaangay nga nalimtan na sila sa Norte bangud malayo ang ila nga lugar.
Suno sa iya, ginpakigbahin nya kay Most Rev.
Billones nga nagakinahanglan ang ila Parokya sang assistant Parish Priest bangud nga indi na matatapan sang isa lang ka pari ang 78 chapels sa ila Parokya ni Rev.
Pope Ibañes nga nagaserbe na sa ila sang masobra tatlo ka tuig.
Ginpahayag man ni Bensurto nga madamo na nga tion nga naga-ayo sila nga mahatagan ang ila Parokya sang dugang nga pari, apang bangud sa nagagamay nga numero sang mga kaparian sa pungsod, wala sa gihapon sang nag-abot sa ila.
Dugang pa niya nga nagpalab-ot man sang pasalig si Most Rev.
Billones nga pagatinguhaan sang simbahan nga mahatagan na sila sang dugang nga pari para sa ila Parokya agud nga mapalapit pa sa mahal nga Dyos ang mga pumuluyo sang Carles.
Legal expert, nagpaandam nga sarang gid mapasakaan sang kaso ang mga indibidwal nga nagapakamalot sang isa ka relehiyon
Nagpaandam ang isa ka legal expert nga sarang gid mapasakaan sang kaso ang mga indibidwal nga nagapakamalot sang isa ka relehiyon.
Jonald Dorado, iya ginpaathag nga kun ang isa ka tawo ang hungod nga nagpakamalaot sang isa ka relehiyon, sarang gid ini makonsiderar nga blasphemous act nga butang nga sarang magpangatubang sang nagakaigo nga kaso.
Dorado nga sa idalum sang revised penal code sang article 133, gina penalize ang mga indibidwal nga naka-offend sang religious feeling kag ang article 132 nga naga-penelize sa nga indibidwal nga nagtuga sang kasablagan sa bisan ano nga religious rituals.
Sa amo nga mga kaso, sarang nga magpangatubang sang penalidad nga pagkapreso ang bisan sin-o nga indibidwal nga maglapas sa amo nga laye nga nagalab-ot sang 6 ka bulan tubtub 2 ka tuig.
Dorado sa publiko nga dumilian gid ang pagpakamalot sang relehiyon sang isa ka indibidwal agud nga malikawan ang mga legal nga konsikwensya.
Public health expert, nagpahanumdum sa publiko nga likawan gid ang pagpangihi sa mga public pool
Nagpahanumdum ang isa ka public health expert sa publiko subong nga summer season nga likawan gid ang pagpangihi sa mga public pool.
Rodney Labis, provincial health officer I sang Iloilo Province, iya ginpahayag nga ang pagpangihi sa swimming pool ang sarang makatuga sang infection sa iban nga tawo nga nagapaligo man sa amo nga lugar.
Labis nga ini nga butang ang masami nga nagakatabo sa mga swimming pool nga may poor sanitary kag indi husto ang chlorine content nga sarang makapatay sang kagaw sa ihi sang tawo.
Dugang pa ni Labis nga kun mainum sang tawo ang tubig halin sa swimming pool nga contaminated sang urine, sarang ini magtuga sang sakit sa tiyan kag infection naman sa panit sang tawo.
Labis sa publiko nga likawan ang amo nga buluhatun sa mga publiko nga paliguan.
Hugot naman ini nga nagpahanumdom sa tagsa ka tag-iya sang mga resort nga siguraduhon gid nga husto ang chlorine level sang ila mga swiiming pool, agud nga malikawan ang balatian nga sarang matuga sang kagaw.
Pila ka magpamilya, nagtipon-tipon subong nga adlaw sa beach agud iselebrar ang Domingo sang pagkabanhaw
Nagtipon-tipon ang pila ka mga magpamilya subong nga adlaw sa beach agud iselebrar ang Domingo sang pagkabanhaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joshua Asuncion, isa sa mga nagpaligo sa Oton Beach, iya ginpahayag nga kada tuig ginahimo nila ini agud nga maka-bonding man sa ila nga pamilya.
Suno pa sa iya nga bilang isa ka katoliko importante nga iselebrar ini nga adlaw sang pagkabanhaw kaupod ang pamilya agud mangin kumpleto kag mangin masadya ini.
Dugang pa sini nga ila gid ginapreparahan ang ini nga tion bangud nga malaka lang sila nga magkaupod nga kumpleto kag ang iban sa ila ang may trabaho naman matapos ang ini nga holiday.
Estudyante nga 2 ka beses na nabutang sa peligro ang kabuhi bangud sa balatian, pagtuo sa Diyos ang salandigan
Wala nadulaan sang paglaum ang isa ka estudyante nga tumandok sang Brgy.
San Francisco, Anini-y, Antique nga naga-eskwela subong sa West Visayas State University sa Iloilo City, apisar nga gintagaan ini sang dako nga pagtilaw sa iya nga kabuhi.
Ini amo si Paul Stanford Loquias, nga na diagnose sa sakit nga Arteriovenous Malformation kun sa diin nagakatabo kun may ara sang abnormal blood flow sa ulo sang isa ka tawo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Loquias, iya ginpahayag nga sang tuig 2024, gulpi na lang ini nga natumba sa ila klase kun sa diin gindala ini sa ospital bangud indi na sini mahulag ang iya lawas.
Gin-operahan man ini pagkatapos sang pila ka therapy kag sang nagbalik na sya sa pag-eskwela sa kolehiyo sini lamang nga Marso 2026 samtang naga-demo ini sa isa ka eskwelahan sa probinsya sang Iloilo gulpi lang ini liwat nga nagcollapse kag gindala sa ospital.
Apisar nga wala nagakadulaan sang pagtilaw bangud sa kahimtangan sang iya ikaayong lawas, padayon ini sa gihapon nga nagatuo sa Diyos nga sa pila ka adlaw mangin maayo na ang tanan para sa iya.
Sa subong, aktibo ini sa gihapon nga myembro bilang lector, commentator amo man bilang choir kag dancer sa ila simbahan.
Nagapasalamat man ini sa mga tawo nga padayon nga nagbulig sa iya agud nga matalampuwasan sini ang mga pagtilaw nga gina-agyan sa kabuhi.
Survivor sang NAIA Explosion sang tuig 1990 kag nanay sang isa ka pari, ginpakigbahin ang istorya sang pagtuo, paglaom kag milagro sa iya kabuhi
Ginpakigbahin sang isa ka survivor sang Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) Boeing 737-300 explosion sang Mayo 11, 1990 ang istorya sini sang paglaum kag milagro bangud sa iya hugot nga pagtuo.
Ini amo si Erlinda Arellano Guarin, 73-anyos sang San Roque, Jaro, Iloilo City, nanay sang isa ka pari kag masobra tatlo na ka dekada nga nagaserbe sa Jaro Cathedral.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Guarin, iya ginpahayag nga sa amo nga hitabo na-delay ang ila flight bangud nabilin ang isa ka madre rason nga ginhulat ini,.
Suno pa sa iya nga kun sa insakto nga oras nag-take off ang eroplano posible nga naglupok ini sa kahawaan.
Sang tion nga ato, hugot ini nga nagpangamuyo kun sa diin dala man sini ang imahe ni La Virgen de la Medalla Milagrosa.
Dugang pa sini nga nakalumpat ini sa pakpak sang eroplano rason nga nakaluwas sa amo nga insidente.
Ginakabig sini ang pagtilaw sa iya kabuhi bilang krus nga natalampuwasan sini paagi sa hugot nga pagtuo kun sa diin siya ang pinakaulihi nga tawo ang naka-survive sa amo nga hitabo.
Suno pa sa iya nga wala nagakulang ang Diyos sa paghatag sang kinahanglanon sang tawo sa kabuhi nga ini kag kun may ara sang dako nga pagtuo sa Ginoo, wala sang gid sang imposible.
Dugang pa sini nga ginhatagan gid ini sang milagro sang Diyos kag may ara pa ini sang misyon sa pagbulig sa iban nga tawo.
Homiliya sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral subong nga adlaw sang Pagkabanhaw, nag-sentro sa pagdumdum sa Diyos sa tanan nga tion sang kabuhi sang tawo
Nagsentro ang homiliya sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral subong nga adlaw sang Pagkabanhaw sa pagdudum sa Diyos sa tanan nga tion sang kabuhi sang tawo, ini apisar nga may ara sang kadulom nga ma-eksperyensyahan.
Michael Reeve Sogo-an, Team Ministry sang Jaro Metropolitan Cathedraliya ginpahanumdom nga duna na sa kabuhi sang tawo nga makabatyag sang kasakit sa sini nga kabuhi.
Apang, ginpunto sini nga permi isipon sang tawo nga ang Diyos kasanag kag kapawa sang Kalibutan nga wala nagabaya sa mga tawo nga nagapangayo sa iya.
Suno pa sa iya nga sini nga adlaw sang pagkabanhaw nagasulod ang Diyos sa pagtuga sang bag-o nga kabuhi sa tawo.
Dugang pa sini nga permi nagasulod sa kabuhi sang tawo ang Diyos agud nga may ara sang paglaom ang mga ini kag ang nagapangamuyo sa iya wala nagakapaslawan.
Pope Leo XIV, nakigsugilanon paagi sa telepono kanday Israeli President Isaac Herzog kag Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, agud istoryahan ang padayon nga kinagamo sa amo nga mga pungsod
Nakigsugilanon si Pope Leo XIV paagi sa telepono kanday Israeli President Isaac Herzog kag Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, agud istoryahan ang padayon nga kinagamo sa amo nga mga pungsod.
Suno sa Vatican, ginkasugtan ni Pope Leo kag Herzog ang importansya sang liwat nga pagbukas sang tanan nga posible diplomatic channels agud untaton ang kinagamo sang amo nga pungsod kag makaangkon sang dalayun nga kalinong sa Middle East.
Nangin kabahin man sang amo nga talakayan ang pagprotektar sa mga sibilyan, iban pa nga kapungsuran kag ang humanitarian law.
Sa nangin sugilanon naman sang Santo Papa kay Zelensky, ginpahayag sini ang iya pagtamyaw para sa adlaw sang pagkabanhaw kag ang pagtalakay sang gilayun nga bulig sa mga biktima sang gyera, ilabi na ang paghilway sa mga preso kag iban pa nga humanitarian initiative.
Matandaan nga matapos ang pag-invade sang Russia sa Ukraine sang 2022, padayon ang paghimakas sang Vatican sa pagpatunga sa amo nga kinagamo agud makaangkon sang dalayun nga kalinong sa rehiyon.
Pope Leo XVI, nakigsugilanon sa telepono kanday Israeli President Isaac Herzog kag Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky
Nakigsugilanon si Papa Leo XVI paagi sa telepono kanday Israeli President Isaac Herzog kag Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, agud istoryahan ang padayon nga kinagamo sa amo nga mga pungsod.
ICPO, mga minor lamang nga insidente ang narekord subong nga Semana Santa
Mga minor nga mga insidente lamang, kaangay sang mga kinagamo bangud sa pag-inom, ang narekord sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) subong nga Semana Santa.
Wibert Parilla, Officer-in-Charge sang Iloilo City Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga matalunsay ang ila nga operasyon sa syudad kag ma-control nila ang sitwasyon sini.
Suno pa sa iya nga dako ang bulig sang dugang nga augmentation halin sa Mobile Force Battalion nga nagpabaskog pa gid sa seguridad sang publiko.
Dugang pa ni Parilla, wala sang break ang duty sang mga kapulisan gani naka-full alert ini asta sa Lunes, Abril 6, agud masiguro sang mga personnel nga safe ang mga tawo sa syudad.
Nagapahanumdom man ini sa publiko, ilabi na gid subong nga adlaw, Abril 5, Domingo sa Pagkabanhaw nga indi magpatama sang inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon kag mangin responsible sa pagselebrar subong nga adlaw.
Suspek nga nagsunog sang ila balay sa Janiuay, Iloilo, nadala lamang sa emosyon rason nga nabuhat sini ang pagpangsunog
Naghinulsuol sa karon ang isa ka construction worker matapos nga ginsunog sini ang kaugalingon nga balay sa Brgy.
Barasalon, Janiuay, Iloilo kaagahon sang Byernes Santo, Abril 3.
Isa ang napatay kag tatlo naman ang pilason sa nasambit nga insidente.
Ang suspek ginkilala kay Remos Brasileño 31-anyos.
Samtang, ang napatay naman nga bayaw sini amo si Wilgie Macero.
Ang mga na-ospital amo sanday Shiela Brasileño Macero, asawa sang napatay kag utod sang suspek kag ang duwa pa sini ka mga utod nga sanday Ivy Brasileño Perez, 35 anyos kag Richard Brasileño, 39 anyos.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa suspek, iya ginpahayag nga naglain ang ang iya buot bangud may nagapanugid sa iya asawa nga naga-inom ini sang makahulubog nga ilimnon sa iya ulubrahan kag ginapasibangdan sini ang iya utod nga nagapanugid.
Suno sa suspek, bangud sa iya kalain sang buot, gin-ula-an sini sang gas kag ginsindutan ang ila balay nga human sa ligh materials rason kun ngaa madali nga naglapta ang kalayo.
Samtang nagadako ang kalayo, natumbahan naman sang refrigerator ang bayaw sang suspek kag sa malain nga palad wala na ini nakaluwas sa sunog.
Nagpangayo ini sang kapatawaran sa Diyos kag sa iya pamilya kag handa sini nga bayran ang sala nga iya nahimo.
Nahibaluan nga nagtakas pa ang suspek matapos ang insidente apang nagdesisyon ini nga ma-surrender kahapon nga adlaw paagi kay Dr.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay PCpt Marlon Perez, hepe sang Janiuay Municipal Police Station, ginatun-an pa sang pamilya kun magapasaka sila sang kaso batok sa suspek.
2 residents sang Balay Pagbag-o, nakatapos na sa SHS; Isa, nakakumpleto naman sa JHS
Ginselebrar sang Balay Pagbag-o sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang kadalag-an sang tatlo sa ila mga residente — duha ang naka-gradwar na sa Senior High School (SHS) samtang isa naman ang nakatapos sa Junior High School (JHS).
Ginpakigbahin sang provincial government ang mga laragway sang mga estudyante suksok ang ila toga samtang upod ang ila pamilya.
Nahibaluan nga kabahin ang edukasyon sa comprehensive intervention sang amo nga programa para sa Children in Conflict with the Law (CICL).
Nakasanto man ini sa Bulig Eskwela sang Probinsya (BES Probins) thrust sang Iloilo Provincial Government.
Ang Balay Pagbag-o nga kilala man bilang Bahay Pag-Asa amo ang nagahatag sang short-term residential care para sa lalaki nga CICL edad 15-17 anyos nga nagahulat pa sang desisyon sang korte ukon posible nga pagsaylo sa ila sa nagakaigu nga mga ahensya sang gobyerno.
Nagatanyag ini nga pasilidad sang nanari-sari nga rehabilitation kag reintegration services para nga masuportahan ang development sang mga pamatan-on amo man ang ila nga ikaayo.
PRO VI Director, nagpanguna sa bicycle patrol kag Bisita Iglesia sa Iloilo City
Ginpangunahan ni Police Regional Office (PRO) VI Regional Director Police Brigadier General Josefino Ligan ang Bicycle Patrol kag Bisita Iglesia sa pila ka matahum nga Catholic churches sa syudad sang Iloilo kadungan sang Biyernes Santo, Abril 3.
Nag-upod kay Ligan ang Command Group, Regional Staff, National Support Units, kag pila ka mga personnel sang Iloilo City Police Office.
Pahayag pa sang talatapan, sa pagbisita sa mga simbahan, nagapahanumdom ang aktibidad nga ang Semana Santa indi lamang tion sang trabaho para sa mga pulis kundi tion man sang paghugot sang pagtuo, pagkamapainubuson, kag spiritual renewal.
Fighter jets sang Estados Unidos, gin-guba sang Iran samtang nagapatigayon ini sang search and rescue operations
Ginguba sang Iran ang fighter jets sang Estados Unidos samtang nagapatigayon ini sang search and rescue operations.
Natabo ang insidente isa ka adlaw matapos ang missile attack sang US sa taytay sang Iran.
Magluwas pa sini kadungan sang pagkahulog sang fighter jets sa kahawaan dala man nga nahulog kag naguba ang helicopter sang Estados Unidos matapos nga naigo sang projectile sang Iran.
Nahibaluan nga halin sang ginsugudan sang US kag Israel ang pagpang-atake sa Iran sang Pebrero 28 naglab-ot na sa masobra 2,070 kag 26,500 ang iban pa nga nasamaran.
Nazarene procession, wala sang may na-rekord nga ”major incidents” subong nga Byernes Santo suno sa PNP
Wala sang may na-rekord nga ”major incidents” ang mga kapulisan sa ginpatigayon nga Nazarene procession sa Maynila subong nga adlaw sang Byernes Santo.
Sa statement nga ginpagwa sang Philippine National Police, madinalag-on nga nasiguro ang seguridad kag kaayuhan sang prosisyon nga gintambungan sang ginabulubanta tunga sa milyon nga mga tumuluo.
Suno sa PNP, naglab-ot sa kabug-usan nga 3, 169 personnel ang gin-deploy sa lugar agud nga maghatag sang bulig.
sang pagpasalamat sa tanan nga mga police officer para sa ila nga kooperasyon kun sa diin nagresulta ini sang ”incident-free” nga pag-obserba sang Byernes Santo sa Quipo, Maynila.
Samtang, ginrespondihan naman sang mga medical teams suno sa PNP ang 397 ka mga ”minor incidents.”
Natapos ang prusisyon las 12:52 sang udto.
NASA, nagpagwa sang mga laragway samtang nagapadayon ang 10-day mission sang Artemis II
Nagpagwa ang National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) sang pila ka mga laragway sang Earth halin sa capsule window sang Artemis II samtang padayon nga nagabiyahe ang grupo pakadto sa bulan.
Sang Abril 1, 2026, ginlunsyar halin sa Kennedy Space Center sa United States ang isa ka “10-day mission” sang Artemis II nga ginalakipan sang apat ka mga astronaut.
Ginalakipan ini nanday Reid Wiseman, ang Navy test pilot kag commander sang mission halin sa NASA.
Kalakip man si Victor Glove, isa man ka naval test pilot, Christina Koch nga isa ka engineer ang record-holding astronaut nga una nga babayi nga magalupad pagwa sa kalibutan.
Amo man ang Canadian Space Agency nga si Jeremy Hansen, isa ka fighter pilot nga una nga non-NASA astronaut nga magaupod sa lunar mission.
Amo ini ang una nga tion halin sang 1972 nga may mga astronaut liwat nga nakalab-ot lampas sa low Earth orbit.
3 pilason sa pagpanglabo kag pagpangluthang sa Calinog kadungan sang Byernes Santo
Pilason ang tatlo ka mga tawo matapos nagluntad ang ginaalegar baisay kag rambol sa tunga sang duha ka grupo sa Calinog, Iloilo kadungan sang Byernes Santo.
Natabo ini sa Malagumpit River nga sakop sang Barangay Cahigon sa amo nga banwa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Miles Dieron, hepe sang Calinog Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga duha ang natiruhan, samtang isa naman ang may samad bangud sang pagpanglabo.
Ang napilasan sa pagpanglabo amo si alias Roque, 62-anyos, residente sang amo nga lugar.
Ang ginaalegar naglabo amo si alias Jose, 50-anyos, residente man sang amo nga lugar.
Suno kay Dieron, nasamaran man si alias Jose matapos natiruhan ini ni alias Anggay.
Magluwas sa ila, napilasan pa gid si alias JP, isa ka barangay kagawad, matapos nga natiruhan man sa amo nga insidente.
Lunsay na sila gindala sa ospital kag padayon subong nga ginabulong suno sa pulis.
Ginpahayag pa nga indi man tuman ka daku ang ila mga pilas.
Suno pa kay Dieron, gindala ni alias Anggay ang armas sa iya nga pagpalagyo.
Wala pa nahibaluan kun ano ini nga klase sang armas.
May isa ka menor de edad nga nakaangkon sang samad sa amo man nga insidente apang nakagwa na ini sa ospital.
Gina-klaro pa kun paano sini naangkon ang iya samad.
Sandig sa imbestigasyon sang pulis, may daan na nga hiligut-anon sa tunga sang duha ka grupo kag sang nakit-anay sila sa suba subong nga adlaw, may natabo nga pagbaisay nga nagresulta sa rambol.
Sa video nga naglapta online, nakit-an nga napuhag ang iban nga nagapalaligo sa suba kasunod sang hitabo.
Makit-an nga may mga menor de edad video, apang luwas naman sa katalagman.
Nahibaluan nga kinaandan nga nagatipon ang magpamilya kag nagakadto sa mga palaliguan sa Semana Santa magluwas sa pagbisita sa mga pilgrimage sites.#
Ika-4 nga pulong: ‘Dios ko, Dios ko, ngaa bala ginpatumbayaan mo Ako?’
“Ginuo, amo bala ini ang gusto mo sa akon?”
Pila ka beses nga ginpamangkot ni Aura Landar ang Ginuo bangud sang asud-asud nga mga pagtilaw sa kabuhi nga nagtakos sang iya pagtuo.
Sa iya repleksyon sa Siete Palabras sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral subong nga hapon, nagsentro ang testimoniya ni Landar sang St.
William Parish sa Passi City sa ikaapat nga pulong: “Dios ko, Dios ko, ngaa bala ginpatumbayaan mo ako?”
Panugiron sini, baliskad sa opinyon nga ang nagaserbisyo sa simbahan, indi malingkang, wala ginakapoy, kag puno sang determinasyon, puno sang mga masakit nga hitabo ang iya inagyan.
Sang 2010, napatay ang iya anak nga naga-edad sadto sang nueve anyos bangud sa dengue.
“Ginuo, ano bala ang sala ko ngaa ginbawi mo siya sa akon?
Wala pa gani ako maayawi sa iya,” pamangkot sini sa Ginuo bangud sa sobra nga kasakit sa pagtaliwan sang anak sa lamharon nga edad.
Sang 2021, may pagpanghangkat sa iya nga ikaayong-lawas.
Inadlaw matapos nahibaluan ang iya balatian, naaresto ang iya bana bangud sa kaso nga murder.
Duha ka semana ang nagligad, napatay ang iya Nanay Auring nga amo ang nag-giya sang iya pagtuo, ang iya “idol” nga amo ang nagtulod sa iya sa pagserbisyo sa simbahan.
“Sa sulod sang isa ka bulan, pamatyag ko gintakluban ako sang langit,” suno pa kay Landar.
May mga tion suno sa iya nga nagapungko siya kag ginakwestyon ang Ginuo kun ano gid bala ang pagbuot para sa iya.
Sa ikaduha nga bahin sang iya repleksyon, ginsugid naman ni Landar ang mga pagtilaw kadungan sang iya nga pagserbisyo sa simbahan.
“May mga gab-i nga ginaprangka ko si Lord, ‘Ginuo, gusto ko pa magserbisyo, pero ngaa pamatyag ko, nagapalayo na ako sa Simbahan?
Sa pihak sini tanan suno kay Landar, diri nga mga pagtilaw kag mas nahangpan niya sang mas madalom ang paghilibion ni Hesus sang ginlansang siya sa Krus.
Wala ako nadulaan sang pagtuo, kundi isa ini ka paghilibion sang napilasan nga tagipusuon.
Nagahigugma, nagatuo, kag nagaserbisyo,” dugang niya.
Nagpadayon siya sa pagpangalagad sa Simbahan, ilabi na sa bulig sang mga nagapamati kag naga-upod sa iya nga wala nagahusgar, kag naga-upod sa iya sa tion sang kahuyang.
“Ang panahon sang kabudlay wala nag-guba sang akon pagtuo, kundi ginpapuraw sini ang akon misyon.” dugang niya.
“Nagapadayon ako sa pagserbisyo tungod sa Diyos, tungod may mga kalag nga nagakinahanglan nga giyahan.
Kag sa akon pagpanglakaton, gina-updan ako sang Diyos sa bokasyon nga akon ginpili.”
Sa iya padayon nga pagpanglakaton kag sa pag-balikid sini sa mga natabo sa iya kabuhi, sarang gid mahambal ni Landar nga tudok sa iya tagipusuon nga: “Ang pagserbisyo sa simbahan isa ka pagbalik sa Diyos sa tanan nga grasya kag bugay nga iya ginhatag sa akon.
‘Gina-uhaw ako’: Repleksyon sang bata nga na-ilo sa amay kag iloy
Sa bata pa lamang nga edad, nagtudok na sa tagipusuon ni Erica Joy Adeva nga himuon ini ilabi na bangud sa natabo sa iya amay — ginpaarakan sang luthang, may 10 ka igu sang bala, anum sa ulo, kag apat sa lawas.
Akig, dumot, kag aligutgot nga masyado ka bug-at dal-on sang bata ko nga tagipusuon ang natuga,” suno kay Erica sa iya nga repleksyon sa Siete Palabras sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral subong nga hapon, Abril 3.
Nagsentro ang iya testimoniya sa ika-lima nga pulong ni Kristo: “Gina-uhaw ako.”
Suno kay Erica, bangud sa kamatayon sang iya amay, nagdaku man siya nga kulang sa seguridad, may kahisa sa iban, kag kulang — indi pareho sa iban nga kabataan nga may kumpleto nga myembro sang pamilya.
Pahayag sini, may mga tion nga nagahambal ang iya iloy nga buligan siya sa pagpangamuyo nga makasulod ini sa public school agud nga makatibawas sila sa kapigaduhon.
“Sa sulod sang akon huna-huna, may pamangkot nga indi ko mapunggan.
Kun may Diyos gid man, tani wala sang bata nga gina-uhaw sa paghigugma sang amay.
Kun may Diyos gid man, tani wala sang bata nga amo sini kabug-at ang ginadala sa iya kaugalingon.'”
Apisar sini nga “kauhaw”, nakilala ni Erica ang Ang Dios Gugma Community nga amo ang nagpabalik sang iya pagpati sa Diyos.
Paagi sa amo nga komunidad kag ila pagserbisyo suno kay Erica, na-islan sang pagpatawad, paglaum, kag pagpalangga ang iya ginbatyag halin sa bata nga edad.
Apang indi man mahapos ang banas para kay Erica.
Sang nakatapos na siya sa pag-eskwela kag nagaproseso na para nga makatudlo sa public school, na-diagnose man nga may breast cancer ang iya iloy.
Pahayag sini, madamo gid siya sang handum para sa iya nga iloy kag naga-amat-amat pa lang kuntani siya sa pagbawi sa mga sakripisyo sini nga ginhimo sa ila nga mag-ulutod.
Oras nga sa paglab-ot ko sini tanan, nagasige man sa pagluya ang akon nanay bangud sa iya masakit,” suno kay Erica.
Sang ulihi, nagdangat na sa stage 4 ang cancer sang iya iloy.
“Ang akon kauhaw nga ginbulong sang Ginuo sang nagligad nga mga tinuig, liwat nabuksan.
Ang kauhaw sa purpose sang akon existence.”
Nagtaliwan ang iloy ni Erica antes pa man sini dalayon nga malab-ot ang iya mga handum.
Binulan ang nagligad, ginpatawag siya agud magproseso para nga mangin regular school teacher nga amo na kuntani ang katumanan sang iya handum.
“Sa grasya sang kaisog nga ginhatag sang Diyos, gin-waive ko ang akon item.
Ginsunod ko ang singgit sang akon tagipusuon nga indi magsulod sa public school, kag padayunon ang pag-serve sa Ginuo paagi sa pagpanglakaton sa community,” panugiron sini.
Apisar wala sang palangabuhian kag apisar nga wala na sang ginikanan nga amo ang magabulig sa ila sang iya kauturan, ginpili sini ang pagsunod ang ‘calling” sa “Ang Dios Gugma Youth Ministry” sa Western Visayas.
Isa ka tuig ang nagligad, nag-abot sa iya ang pribilehiyo nga makasulod sa Ang Dios Gugma Catholic School Inc.
rason nga nakabalik siya sa iya propesyon nga una na sini nga ginpaiway.
Paagi sa amo nga eskwelahan suno kay Erica, nakilala sini ang kabataan nga uhaw man sa pagpalangga, pagtatap, kag presensya sang Diyos nga sarang gid niya mabuligan.
Sa iya pagbalik sa iya mga inagyan subong nga Semana Santa, nagpahayag si Erica, “Diyos ang nakahibalo sang palaabuton nga akon ginalauman.
Nahibaluan sang Diyos nga sa amo ni nga tinion, mangin ilo ako nga lubos sabagay nga ginbutang niya ako sa komunidad nga madamo ang akon instant tatay kag nanay.
Instant nga mga kauturan kay Kristo nga makabulig sa journey padulong sa duog nga wala sang kauhaw kag wala sang kasakit —ang langit.”
‘Tapos Na’: Istorya sang Ilonggo nga naghupot sang pagtuo sa pihak sang kapigaduhon
“Tapos na.” Para sa iban, nagakahulugan ini sang katapusan; apang para kay Jerson Alagao sang Sacred Heart Chaplaincy, Western Visayas Sanitarium, Sta.
Barbara, Iloilo, ini nagakahulugan sang katumanan.
“Tapos na ang kabudlayan, ang gutom, ang kahadlok, ang pagduda.
Natapos na ina nga kabuhi ko, pero indi ini ang katapusan.
Ini ang sugod sang akon misyon,” panugiron sini sa iya repleksyon sa Siete Palabras sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral subong nga hapon, Abril 3.
Nagdaku si Jerson sa pigado nga pamilya.
Naga-trabaho bilang construction worker ang iya amay samtang ang iya naman iloy amo ang naga-atipan sa anum sila nga mag-utod.
“Ang balay namon, para lang gid nga may mapuy-an.
Gin-recycle nga mga materyales, kag amon atop daw dahon sang saging nga may mga buho-buho nga daw mga bituon sa aga,” pahayag sini samtang ginasugid ang ila kapigaduhon.
Apisar sang puraot nga kabuhi, ginhuptan sini ang iya handum nga mangin accountant.
May mga tion suno sa iya nga haluson na sila makakaon, naga-antos pa sa kalayuon sang ila eskwelahan, kag wala pa sang disente nga bag nga butangan sang iya panapton.
Sa kolehiyo, tatlo tubtub apat ka jeep ang kinahanglan sini sakyan agud makaabot sa ila eskwelahan, kag may mga adlaw nga wala gid sang inughatag nga kwarta ang ila iloy.
Suno kay Jerson, kun kaisa, naga-tutor siya sa iya classmates agud nga may inugplete siya pauli.
“May tion nga kinahanglan ko na magpuli, wala gid ako sang kwarta.
Kun magsakay ako sa jeep, nagapangamuyo na lang ako, ‘Lord, hatagi sang madamo nga pasahero ini nga jeep.’ Dira ko mapungko sa iya likod kag magdaho sang mga plete sang pasahero, para indi matalupangdan sang driver nga wala ako nakabayad.
Indi ko ina guisto, brothers and sisters, [pero] wala ako sang mahimo.”
Sa pihak sini tanan, ginpasalamatan ni Jerson ang iya iloy nga amo ang nagtudlo sa iya nga mangin malapit sa Simbahan halin sa bata pa lamang nga edad.
Halin sang Grade 3 tubtub nakatapos sa college, nag-serbe si Jerson sa Simbahan bilang isa ka acólito, lector, myembro sang choir, kag katapo sang lain-lain nga mga organisasyon.
Mangin sa iya pag-eskwela, napamatud-an ni Jerson nga wala siya ginapabay-an sang Ginuo sang ginpa-istar siya, gintatap, kag ginpakaon sang pamilya nga indi man niya mga himata.
Nag-apply man siya nga mangin scholar sang Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center.
Ika-pito siya sa listahan, apang lima lamang ang ginkuha.
“Pero sin-o bala ang makapakot sa plano sang Diyos?
Pagligad sang pila ka adlaw, nagtawag sa akon ang JASAC, madugang pa kuno sila duha ka scholars.
Gani nga nakasulod ako,” suno kay Jerson.
Dugang sini: “Ang Ginuo gid nagapanghikot sa akon kabuhi.”
Subong, isa na ka Certified Public Accountant (CPA) si Jerson, may kaugalingon na nga accounting firm, kag may kaugalingon na nga mga propiedad, apang nagapabilin siya sa pagserbe sa simbahan.
Ginakabig niya ini nga panugod sang iya misyon nga amo ang pagbulig man sa iban nga nagakinahanglan.
“Sang ginbalikdan ko ini tanan, nabinag-binag ko, samtang naga-antos ako sa kabuhi, ginahulma ako sang Ginuo sa sulod sang Iya balay.
Ginahanda Niya ako, kag nagpadala siya sang mga tawo,” dugang niya sa iya nga repleksyon.
Pahayag pa sini: “Ang akon byahe, natapos na.
Subong, akon naman turno, ang turno nga mangin kaayuhan sa iban, kay ako mismo ebidensya nga kun ang Ginuo yara sa imo, matapos mo gid.”#
Ika-7 nga pulong: ‘Amay, sa Imo mga kamot ginatugyan ko Ang Akon Espiritu’
Anne Parish, Molo, Iloilo City ang iya tyempo sa Syete Palabras subong nga adlaw, Abril 3, agud isugid ang istorya sang isa ka tumuluo nga nagtaliwan nga may hugot nga pagtuo sa Diyos.
Istorya ini ni Carlene, 49-anyos, isa ka abyan ni Msgr.
Delgado sa Parokya ni San Miguel, nga ginlubong sang nagligad lang nga Marso 26.
Delgado, gin-agda sang Jaro Archdiocesan Pastoral Secretariat (JAPS) si Carlene nga isa kuntani sa magapakigbahin sa Syete Palabras sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral subong nga Semana Santa.
Nakasabat pa ini nga: “For God’s Greatest Glory, Sir.” Apang lain ang plano sang Ginuo.
Duha ka adlaw matapos ang iya sabat, nagtaliwan si Carlene.
Delgado nga amo ang nagpakigbahin sang repleksyon sa ika-pito nga pulong ni Kristo nga, ‘Amay, sa Imo mga kamot ginatugyan ko Ang Akon Espiritu.’
Delgado kag Carlene 14 anyos na ang nagligad sang katapo si Carlene sang Flock of Divine Mercy nga mapisan nga naga-ugyon sa programa sang ebanghelisasyon sa amo nga parokya.
Delgado, nangin regular ang ila komunikasyon gani nga nahangpan kag nabatyagan sang pari ang pagtuo ni Carlene sa pihak sang anum ka tuig nga pag-antos sang lupus nga isa ka chronic autoimmune disease.
“Ang masakit nga tayuyon, nagapahina sang aton kusog, nagapadula sang aton gana sa pagkaon, nagapaubos sang aton kwarta, kag kun kaisa, nagakatublag ang aton pagsalig sa Diyos.
Gani kun may masakit kita, we found ourselves helpless,” suno kay Msgr.
Apang sa baylo nga amo sini ang batyagon, tubtub sa iya katapusan nga ginhawa, gin-gamit ni Carlene ang iya tyempo para sa ebanghelisasyon.
Delgado, nangin palaagyan si Carlene agud nga makatawag ang isa man ka pasyente sa pari para nga maka-kumpisar ini samtang yara sila sa ospital.
Dugang sang pari: “Wala siya nag-focus sa iya lang kahimtangan.
Sa pagtapos sang iya repleksyon, ginpahangop ni Msgr.
Gani indi uyang kundi manggad ang aton pag-antos, kay ini nagapamanggaranon sa aton sa gugma sang Diyos.”
Gindumdom man sini si Carlene kag ang iya kabuhi — kag ang iya katapusan nga mensahe kay Msgr.
Delgado antes siya nagsulod sa ganhaan sang kamatayon: “God will keep us in His love.”#
‘Taltal sa Barotac Viejo’, hiwaton subong nga aga
Nagapang-agda ang local government unit sa pagtambong kag pag-upod sa ika-50 na nga ‘Taltal sa Barotac Viejo’ sa Iloilo subong nga Byernes Santo, Abril 3.
Suno kay Barotac Viejo Mayor Nielo “Bongbong” Tupas, magasugod ang aktibidad 8:00 subong nga aga sa Barotac Viejo Municipal Gymnasium.
Magatapos ini sa Pal-ac Hills sa Poblacion kun sa diin masaksihan ang highlight sang Taltal.
Nakaalerto naman ang mga katapo sang Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP), Philippine National Police, kag Philippine Army sa pagpat-od sang seguridad kadungan sang relihiyoso nga aktibidad.
Ang “Taltal sa Barotac Viejo” amo ang live drama presentation sang kabuhi ni Hesukristo tubtub sa iya nga kamatayon.
Ini nga solemn Holy Week tradition isa ka reenactment sang kasakit, pag-antos, kag kamatayon ni Hesus kag nagapakita sang madalom nga pagtuo kag debosyon sang komunidad.#
25,000 ka mga tumuluo, ginalauman nga magalantaw sa ‘Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid’
Ginalauman nga magalab-ot sa 25,000 ka mga tumuluo kag dumuluong ang magakadto para sa ika-48 ka tuig sang “Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid” sa probinsya sang Guimaras subong nga Byernes Santo, Abril 3.
Isa ini ka bantog nga Lenten tradition sa Western Visayas nga nagapakita sang pag-antos ni Hesus kag paglansang sa Iya sa Krus.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jordan Mayor John Edward Gando, iya ginpahayag nga ginpreparahan sang maayo ang security plan sang banwa amo man ang paghatag sang medical services pananglitan may maglain ang pamatyag.
Maga-umpisa ini sa atubang sang munisipyo 11:00 sa aga kag magatakop alas tres sa hapon sa Balaan Bukid Shrine sa Barangay Balcon Melliza.
Sa kinaandan sa nagligad nga mga tuig, naga-umpisa ang prusisyon sa Smallest Plaza sa Barangay Poblaci n apang subong, maga-umpisa ini sa atubang sang munisipyo kag mas malapit sang gamay ang ruta subong nga tuig.
May gamay man nga kinalain sa production apang amo man gihapon ang scenes nga iga-reenact kadungan sang presentasyon.
Sang 2025, nakadangat sa 24,000 ka mga indibidwal ang nagbisita sa Balaan Bukid.
Bantog sa bilog nga Western Visayas ang Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid nga nagsugod sadtong 1975.
Magluwas nga isa ini ka religious performance, nagaserbe man ang Pagtaltal bilang sahi sang penitensya para sa mga tumuluo nga nagakadto agud nga magpabutyag sang ila nga paghinulsol sang ila mga sala.#
Numero sang mga pasahero sa Parola Wharf, naghagan-hagan na
Naghagan-hagan na ang numero sang mga pasahero sa Parola Wharf subong nga hapon sang Huwebes Santo kun ikumpara ini kagina sang aga kun sa diin madamo ang mga nagatabok padulong sa Guimaras.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Erlan Gatutoe, isa ka Engineer sang fiber boat, iya ginpahayag nga mas nakabawi na sila subong nga Semana Santa matapos ang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong sa pungsod.
Suno sa iya,ginabulubanta nga yara sa 2,000 tubtob 3,000 ang mga pasahero nga nagbyahe pakadto sa Guimaras subong lang nga adlaw kag possible pa nga magdamo sa Byernes Santo bangud sa pagahiwatun nga Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid.
Madumduman nga apisar nga madamo ang mga sumalakay, ginapasiguro sa gihapon sang Coast Guard Station Iloilo nga ginasunod gid ang maximum capacity sang kada sakayang pandagat kun sa diin may ara man sang personnel nga gindeploy ang nasambit nga ahensya.
Madamo nga mga pasahero , gindugukan ang Ceres Terminal sa Distrito sang Jaro, kagab-i, Abril 1
Gindugukan sang madamo nga mga pasahero ang Ceres Terminal sa Distrito sang Jaro, kagab-i, Abril 1.
Ini bangud nga madamo ang nagapalauli sa ila tagsa ka mga ka probinsya subong nga Semana Santa.
Ryan Palaran, head sang Highway Patrol Group, iya ginpahayag nga ginapabaskog gid nila ang ila inspeksyon sa mga bus units agud masiguro ang seguridad sang mga pasahero.
Ginapatuman gid nila ang capacity limit nga 40 ka pasahero kada bus bilang kabahin sang safety measures.
Suno pa sa iya nga importante nga masunod ang amo nga regulasyon agud malikawan ang disgrasya kag masiguro ang proteksyon sang mga magapauli.
Nagpahanumdom man ang mga ini nga likawan ang overloading, bangod ini isa sa mga rason kun ngaa nagaluntad ang aksidente.
Duwa ka ICARE Center sa syudad sang Iloilo, gin-inagurahan na kahapon nga adlaw, Abril 1
Gin-inagurahan na kahapon nga adlaw, Abril uno ang ika-siyam kag ikanapulo nga Iloilo City Action and Resilience (ICARE) Center sa Bankers Village IV, Jaro, kag Taal, Molo, Iloilo City.
Ini agud nga magabulig sa mas madasig kag mas epektibo nga pagresponde sa emerhensya kag kalamidad sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, Spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang pasilidad nga nahamtang sa Bankers Village IV pwede na nga magamit sang City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (CDRRMO), Iloilo City Police Station 3 kag Bureau of Fire Protection.
Samtang ang sa Taal Molo, Iloilo City naman ang ginkay-o na sang maayo kag pwede na nga magamit sang Molo Police Station sa pagserbisyo man sa mga pumuluyo sa nasambit nga lugar.
Nahibaluan nga ini nga mga bag-o nga center ang magadugang sa mga existing ICARE Centers sa So-oc, Ungka, Calumpang, Balantang, Tanza-Esperanza, Nabitasan, ICC Gaisano, kag Megaworld, nga nagapakita sang kooperasyon sang city government kag mga partner agencies sa paghatag sang mas safe nga Iloilo City.
Suno pa kay Gorzal nga indi na mabudlayan ang pumuluyo sa lugar bangud nga napalapit na sa mga ini ang pasilidad nga magabulig sa ila sa pag-preparar, pag-mitigate, kag pagresponde sa tion sang emerhensya.
10 ka drivers, nagpositibo sa Oplan Harabas sang LTO 6
Nagpositibo sa drug test ang duha ka taxi drivers sa ginpatigayon nga Oplan Harabas sang Land Transportation Office (LTO) 6 kag Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) 6 sa Dumangas Port kahapon nga adlaw, Miyerkules, Abril, 1.
Ini ang nagdugang sa walo ka drivers nga una na nga nagpositibo sa drug test sa mga terminals nga una na nga ginbisita sang PDEA kag LTO kun sa diin, lima diri ang tricycle drivers, duha ang taxi drivers kag isa ka driver sang Public Utility Jeepney kag ini sila ang napaidalom na sa confimatory test.
Gaudioso Geduspan II, Regional Director sang LTO 6, iya ginpahayag nga humalin sang Lunes Santo, Marso 30, 2026 may ara na sang 1,422 ka mga specimen ang ginpaidalom sa drug test halin sa mga terminals sa probinsya sang Antique, Sara, Roxas, kag Guimaras.
Ini nga numero ang naglapaw na sa target sang opisina apang magapadayon pa bangud may mga alkalde nga naga-request sa ila opisina nga magpatigayon sang drug test sa mga drivers.
Nagapangabay man ang opisina sang Land Transportation Region 6 sa Association of Taxi Operators in Panay nga dapat nga maghimo sila sang nagakigo nga tikang batok sa illegal nga paggamit sang droga para sa ila mga drivers agud nga matapna na ini.
Pila ka mga transport cooperative sa syudad sang Iloilo, nagdesisyon nga indi anay magbyahe sa Byernes kag Sabado
Nagdesisyon ang pila ka mga transport cooperative sa syudad sang Iloilo nga indi anay magbiyahe buwas nga adlaw sang Byernes Santo tubtob sa Sabado bangod sa padayon nga pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raymundo Parcon, Chairman sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, iya ginpahayag nga madamo sa mga drivers ang nabudlayan bangud nga ila man gina-ekspektar nga mangin magamay lamang ang pasahero.
Ginpahayag man sini nga nagahulat sang subsidiya halin sa gobyerno ang ila nga mga myembro apang sang gin-check na nila ang ila bank account wala sa gihapon nag-abot ang ginalauman nila halin sa gobyerno nga assistance.
Bangud sini, nagnubo man ang numero sang mga nagabiyahe nga salakyan bangud nga indi man sa gihapon makabalik ang ila gasto bangud sa kamahal sang gatong.
Dugang pa sini nga naglab-ot na lamang sa 30% ang operational nga units nga nagabyahe sa ila kooperatiba, samtang ang iban nga driver ang nagdesisyon nga indi anay magbiyahe bangud sa mabudlay nga sitwasyon.
Magabalik naman ang ila nga operasyon sa Domingo Abril 5 bangud ila ginalauman nga madamo sa sang mga pasahero nga magabalik sa ila tagsa ka mga trabaho
Banwa sang New Lucena, ginpaidalom sa state of calamity bangud sa nagalala nga epekto sang krisis sa gatong
Ginpaidalom na sa state of calamity ang banwa sang New Lucena, Iloilo bangud sa nagalala nga epekto sang krisis sa gatong.
Base sa deklarasyon, nagbilin sang dako nga problema ang padayon nga pagtaas sang presyo sa gatong sa nasambit nga banwa.
Apektado ang mga drivers kag mga pasahero bangud sa pagtaas sang pamasahe kag limitado man ang pagbyahe .
Nagapangatubang man sa karon sa pagpanghangkat ang mga lokal nga negosyo bangud sa pagtaas sang operational costs.
Bunga sini nagtaas man ang presyo sang mga balaklon.
Base sa rekomendasyon sang Municipal Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (MDRRMC), gin-aprubahan sang Sangguniang Bayan ang deklarasyon agud mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga solusyon ang sitwasyon.
Sa idalom sang deklarasyon, mahimo magamit ang MDRRM Fund para mangin madali ang paghatag sang ayuda kag makapatigayon sang tikang ang LGU agud mapahagan-hagan ang epekto sang krisis sa mga apektado nga sektor.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas sa New Lucena, una na nga ginpaidalom sa state of calamity ang banwa sang Ajuy.
Samtang, ginpahayag ni Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr.
nga kon ipaidalom man sa state of calamity ang bug-os nga probinsya, may nakahanda na nga pondo nga nagalab-ot sa 82 million pesos para buligan ang mga apektado nga sektor.
NGCP: ‘Likawan magpalupad burador sa transmission lines’
Nagpahanumdom ang National Grid Corporation of the Philippines sa publiko nga indi pagtugutan nga magpalupad sang burador ang mga kabataan malapit sa mga transmission lines, tore, substations, kag iban pa nga pasilidad sang NGCP.
Suno sa NGCP, sa tion sang summer season, nagapadayon ang pagdamo sang insidente nga ang mga burador nagasangit sa linya sang kuryente ukon nagasulod pa sa mga substations.
Ini nga mga hitabo mahimo magdala sang tripping, gulpi nga pagkadula sang kuryente, kag peligro sa publiko.
Ginapangabay man sang NGCP ang mga lokal nga panguluhan nga palig-onon ang pagpatigayon sang anti-kite flying campaign agud malikawan ang problema sa padayon nga suplay sang kuryente kag magapabilin nga hilway ang komunidad.
Dugang sang NGCP, ang ini nga mga aktibidad ang hugot nga ginadumilian sa idalom sang Anti-Obstruction of Power Lines Act.
ang ginaduso nga price cap nga P50 per kilo para sa imported rice.
Natalana pa lamang nga ipagwa sang presidente ang executive order.
Suno kay Marcos sa iya video message kagab-i, ginrekomendar sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC) ang price cap, kag gin-aprubahan niya ini bangud indi sini gusto suno sa iya nga magtimbuok ang presyo sang mga pagkaon kasunod sang pagpanglakaak man sang presyo sang gatong.
Ang ginduso sang NPCC ang kabahin sang tikang sang gobyerno nga mapahagan-hagan ang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East.
Ginpahat-pahat naman ni Marcos ang mga ginahimo sang iya administrasyon lakip na ang pagpasangkad sang P20 rice program.
Ginpadayaw sini nga masobra 4-million ka mga mangunguma kag manugpangisda ang natalana nga makabaton sang tag-P2,325 nga bulig sa Abril halin sa Presidential Assistance to Farmers, Fisherfolk, and Families.
Ihatag man ang fuel subsidy sa 40,000 farmers, samtang halos 100,000 fuel cards kag fuel vouchers naman ang ihatag sa mga manugpangisda.
Gindugang sang presidente nga nagapabilin nga estable kag nagasunod gihapon sa current suggested retail price (SRP) levels ang presyo sang basic necessities and prime commodities.
Double-digit price hike sa LPG, ginpatuman epektibo subong nga adlaw
Ginpatuman epektibo subong nga adlaw, Abril 1, ang daku nga pagsaka sa presyo sang liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
Sa advisory sang Petron, nagsiling ini nga P20 kada kilo ang ginsaka sang LPG epektibo kaina sang tungang gab-i.
Bangud sini, P220 na ang isaka sa presyo sang kinaandan nga 11-kilogram LPG cylinder.
Sa Solane naman, nagsaka ang LPG price sang tubtub P17 kada kilo epektibo alas sais subong nga aga.
Suno sa duha ka mga kumpaniya, gina-reflect sini ang international contract price sang LPG para sa Abril.
Sa data halin sa Department of Energy (DOE), as of March, ang presyo sang 11-kilo LPG tank ang nagatupa na sa P818.62 tubtub P1,128.62.
Una na nga nagpaandam ang LPG Marketers Association (LPGMA) nga posible makalab-ot ang presyo sang isa ka LPG tank sa P1,500 sa Abril bangud sa mataas nga balayran sa shipping bangud sang paglain sang ruta sa Middle East sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga gyera.#
Iga-implementar subong nga Myerkules Santo ang half-day work from home arrangement para sa tanan nga naga-trabaho sa gobyerno.
Sa idalom sini nga arrangement, ang tanan nga personnel sang gobyerno ang mahimo mag-trabaho sa ila nga mga balay halin 8:00 sa aga tubtub 12:00 sa udto, samtang suspendido naman ang trabaho halin sa udto panaog.
116, ginpaathag ni Executive Secretary Ralph Recto nga ang ginpanubo nga trabaho subong nga adlaw ang ginhimo agud nga mahatagan sang opurtunidad ang mga empleyado sang gobyerno nga mag-obserbar sang Huwebes Santo kag Byernes Santo sa Abril 2 kag 3.
Bangud sa sini nga schedule, mahatagan sila sang ligwa nga makabyahe sa mga rehiyon ukon sa ila tagsa ka mga probinsya para sa malawig nga break.
Apang ginklaro sa order nga magapadayon naman sa kinaandan nga mga operasyon ang mga ahensya nga nagahatag sang basic and health service, preparedness response sa disasters and calamities, kag iban pa pa nga vital services.
Magadepende naman sa mga employer kun sundon man ang work from home set-up kag ang suspension sang trabaho para sa Semana Santa.
Nahibaluan nga pila ka tuig na nga ginasunod ang work-from-home schedule sa kada Myerkules Santo sa Pilipinas kun sa diin kadam-an sa nagapuyo ang mga Katoliko.#
Banwa sang Ajuy, ginpaidalom sa State of Calamity bangod sang nagapadayon nga energy emergency
Ginpaidalom sa State of Calamity ang banwa sang Ajuy matapos ginpasar sang Sangguniang Bayan ang Resolution No.
2026-088 kahapon, Marso 31, bangod sang nagapadayon nga energy emergency.
Ini nga tikang ginbase man sa MDRRMO Order No.
60, Series of 2019 nga naga-deklarar sang state of calamity kon duha ukon mas madamo nga barangay ang apektado.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Loida Espinosa, iya ginpahayag nga antes pa sang pagdeklarar ni Pangulong Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
sang state of energy emergency, nakaeksperyensya na sang kakulangan sa enerhiya ang pila ka barangay, labi na ang sektor sang pangisdaan.
Bangod sini, nagdesisyon ang lokal nga panguluhan nga magdeklarar sang state of calamity agud mapadasig ang paghatag sang bulig sa mga apektado.
Isa sa mga inisyatibo sang banwa amo ang pagbalik sa paggamit sang layag bilang dugang nga pamaagi sa pangisda, nga mahimo na subong nga hybrid.
Gina-explore man sang LGU sang Ajuy ang alternatibo nga livelihood program, pareho sang pag-produce sang asin, agud indi na kinahanglanon sang pumuluyo nga magbakal pa sini sa iban nga lugar.
Sa sektor sang transportasyon, kapin sa 300 ka tricycle drivers naman nga may mga prangkisa ang nabuligan na kun sa diin ginahatagan ang mga ini sang 15 ka kilo nga bugas bilang suporta.
Iloilo City Crisis Management Council, nagpatigayon sang ila labing una nga weekly meeting
Nagpatigayon sang ila labing una nga weekly meeting ang Iloilo City Crisis Management Council agud mapabakod pa ang preparasyon sang syudad sa nagapadayon nga pagpanghangkat sa energy kag resources.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Engr.
Neill Ravena, head sang City General Services Office kag Energy Efficiency and Conservation Officer sang nasambit nga komitiba, iya ginpahayag nga ila giintalakay ang water conservation, energy conservation, kag fuel conservation agud mangin makinot ang paggamit sang enerhiya.
Gina-engganyo man nila ang publiko nga magtipid sang paggamit sang enerhiya sa mga panimalay, paagi sa pagpahibalo sa publiko sang nagakadapat nga obrahon.
Ang energy team sang syudad nagapanawagan man nga hagan-haganon sa paggamit ang mga appliances, ilabi na ang mga climate-control devices nga naga-konsumo sang dako nga kuryente.
Samtang, ginpasiguro naman ni Mayor Raisa Treñas nga padayon nga ginatutukan sang lokal nga panguluhan ang ini nga sitwasyon agud masiguro ang kahandaan sang syudad.
Dugang pa ni Ravena, ang syudad man sang Iloilo ang isa sa mga nagpanguna nga nagpatuman sang nasambit nga komitiba.
Nagpanawagan sila sang kooperasyon kag pagbinuligay sa publiko agud mas mangin epektibo ang pagpatigayon sang nasambit nga inisyatibo.
Iloilo City Government, magapatigayon sang half-day work-from-home bilang kabahin sang pag-obserbar sang Semana Santa
Magapatigayon sang half-day work-from-home ang Iloilo City Government subong nga adlaw, Miyerkules, kasunod sang gin-anunsyo sang Malacañang kahapon bilang kabahin sang pag-obserbar sang Semana Santa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga suno sa ginpagwa nga Memorandum Order, ang mga empleyado sang syudad magatrabaho halin alas-8:00 sang aga tubtob alas-12:00 sang udto paagi sa work-from-home setup.
Ginmandu man nga suspendido ang regular nga trabaho sang gobyerno halin alas-12:00 sang udto tubtob alas-5:00 sang hapon bilang kabahin man sang pag-obserbar sang Semana Santa.
Samtang, ginpahamtang naman ang Blue Alert Status sa syudad agud masiguro ang seguridad sang syudad sang mga tawo.
Ila man ginapahibalo sa publiko nga wala sang onsite work, kag magaresume ang regular nga trabaho sa Lunes, Abril 6, 2026.
Gindumdum man ang publiko nga magbulig sa pagkonserbar sang enerhiya paagi sa pagpatay sang mga suga kag pag-unplug sang mga appliances kon wala ginagamit, agud malikawan ang disgrasya kag masiguro ang kaluwasan.
Sa pihak sini, ang frontline services sang syudad magapadayon sa normal nga operasyon agud maserbisyuhan gihapon ang publiko.
Bayan Panay, nagpatigayon sang protesta nga gintawag sang mga ini nga ”Kalbaryo sang Pumuluyo”
Nagpatigayon sang protesta subong nga adlaw, Marso 31, ang BAYAN Panay nga gintawag sang mga ini nga ”Kalbaryo sang Pumuluyo”
Ini kaangot sa gihapon sa kabudlayan nga naagyan sang mga pumuluyo ilabi na ang mga drivers kag operators nga nagaka-eksperyensya sang mataas nga bili sang gatong.
Sa amo nga protesta, nagpas-an man sang krus ang mga nag-upod sa aktibidad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elmer Forro, Secretary General sang BAYAN Panay, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga protesta ginpaangid nila sa kabudlayan nga naagyan ni Hesus samtang nagapas-an sang krus.
Suno pa sa iya nga indi makaigo ang ginahatag sang gobyerno nga assistance kag kulang pa ang ginahimo nga mga tikang ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
ilabi na nga nagapabungol-bungol lang ini sa panawagan nga ibasura ang Oil Deregulation Law kag magpatuman sang price control sa mga produktong petrolyo.
Nagpanawagan man ang mga ini nga dapat untaton na sang Estados Unidos ang pagpang-atake sa mga pungsod kun sa diin ginakuha ang mga natural resources kaangay sang langis.
Dugang pa ni Forro nga dapat kuhaon na ang excise tax kag value-added tax agud nga indi na tuman nga mabudlayan ang mga pumuluyo.
Fuel subsidy coupon para sa 1, 600 PUJ drivers halin sa City Government, natalana na nga ipanagtag sa Abril 9
Natalana na nga ipanagtag sa Abril 9 ang fuel subsidy coupon para sa 1, 600 Public Utility Jeepney drivers and operators sa syudad sang Iloilo halin sa City Government.
Sa Abril 11 kag Abril 12, natalana naman ang pag-claim kag pagpatughong sang mga PUJ drivers sang ila mga salakyan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, Spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga sa adlaw sang pagpatughong, kinahanglan nga magdala sang original driver’s license kag isa ka photocopy sini nga may ara sang 3 ka specimen signatures.
Gin-athag man ni Gorzal nga nalakip man diri sa 1, 600 nga PUJ drivers ang mga modernized jeepneys.
Wala man ginapahanugutan sang City Government nga iban nga tawo ang magpatughong sang gatong kun sa diin dapat kun sin-o ang nakasulat nga pangalan sa coupon amo ang dapat nga mag-claim.
Samtang sa Abril 8, adlaw sang Mierkules nakatalana naman nga ipapanagtag ang cash assistance para sa 1, 983 ka mga Tricycle Operators and Drivers Association (TODA) nga nagabalor sang P5, 000 halin sa Department of Social Welfare and Development.
Kinahanglan sang mga ini nga magdala sang ila original driver’s license kag duwa ka photocopy sini nga may ara sang 3 ka original specimen signatures.
Nahibaluan nga sang nagligad nga semana natigayon na nga matagaan sang subsidiya nga gatong ang mga tricycle drivers and operators sa syudad sang Iloilo kag ini ang inisyatibo mismo sang city government.
Lalaki nga nasapwan patay sa Zone 3 Ungka, Jaro, sang Marso 29, nakilal-an na
Nakilal-an na ang lalaki nga nasapwan nga patay sa bakante nga lote sa Zone 3, Barangay Ungka, Jaro, Iloilo City sang hapon sang Marso 29.
Ang biktima amo si alyas John, 50 anyos kag residente man sang nasambit nga barangay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Mavin Laraño, hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station 3, iya ginpahayag nga wala gid nagsulod sa pinsar sang pamilya sang biktima nga siya ang nasapwan nga patay.
Suno sa imbestigasyon sang mga kapulisan, ang nahibaluan sang pamilya amo nga nagbalik ini sa Roxas, Capiz.
Ginpahayag man nga nakita sang bata sang biktima sa social media ang tsinelas nga ginapanag-iyahan sang iya amay, nga amo ang naghatag sang ideya sa ila nga mahimo ang amay nila amo ang nasapwan.
Sang ila nga gin-usisa didto nahibaluan nga wala ini nakareport sa iya trabaho sa Roxas.
Ginpahayag man sang iya asawa nga may ara sang problema ini nga ginapangatubang kag may ginasuprer man ini nga high blood pressure rason nga mahimo nagtlod sa iya nga utason ang kaugalingon nga kabuhi.
Price hike sa LPG sa Abril, ginakabalak-an sang isa ka carinderia owner
Posible nga magpasaka sang presyo sang ila ginabaligya nga pagkaon ang mga nagapanag-iya sang karinderya sa Iloilo City bangud sa posible nga pagsaka man sa presyo sang Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) sa masunod nga bulan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Frozzy Magbanua, nagapanag-iya sang karinderya sa City Proper, iya ginpahayag nga magadugang sila sang P2 tubtob P5 kun matigayon nga mapasaka ang presyo sang LPG.
Suno sa iya, ila man ginakonsiderar nga buhinan nalang ang serving sang ila ginabaligya nga sud-an kag ipabilin ang ila presyo agud indi man matam-an ang mga estudyante nga masami nga nagabakal sa ila.
Dugang pa ni Magbanua, indi lang ang presyo sang LPG ang ila ginaproblema bangud nagmahal man ang bugas, mantika kag iban pa nga ila gid ginagamit sa ila nga negosyo.
Coast Guard Iloilo, naka-heightened alert subong nga Semana Santa
Magapabilin sa heightened alert status ang Philippine Coast Guard Station Iloilo tubtob Abril 5.
Ini kadungan sang pag-obserbar sang Semana Santa kun sa diin madamo ang mga nagabyahe nga mga tumuluo kag mga tawo nga magpaliwa-liwa kadungan sang holidays.
El John Ga, spokesperson sang nasambit nga ahensya, iya ginpahayag nga nag-deploy na sila sang 200 personnel agud nga magbantay sa nagkalain-lain nga mga ports kag terminal sa siudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo.
Suno kay Ga, may ara man sila sang passenger assistance center para mag-akomodar sang mga pamangkot sang mga pasahero.
Nag-deploy man sila sang ila personnel sa mga sakayang pandagat agud mag-monitor.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa publiko nga likawan gid ang pagdala sang mga delikado kag ginadumilian nga mga bagay ilabi na ang makahulubog nga mga ilimnon agud nga mangin tayuyon ang ila nga mga pagbyahe.
450 ICPO personnel, gin-deploy subong nga Semana Santa
Nag-deploy na sang 450 police personnel ang Iloilo City Police Office sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang siudad agud nga magbantay subong nga Semana Santa.
Wilbert Parilla, Officer in charge sang ICPO, iya ginpahayag nga ini amo ang ila tikang para sa seguridad sang tanan nga magapadulong sa mga simbahan, ports, kag terminal.
Suno man sa iya, may ginplastar man sila nga mga police assistance desks.
Magalawig naman ang deployment suno sa iya tubtob sa Easter Sunday.
Nagpahanumdom man si Parilla sa publiko nga likawan ang pagsuksok sang magarbo nga panapton kag alahas agud nga malikawan man nga mangin target sang mga kawatan.
Iloilo City government, ginakabig bilang isa ka dako nga kadalag-an ang pagkalakip sang siyudad bilang isa sa duha lamang ka mga siyudad sa Pilipinas sa UN’s 20 Cities Towards Zero Waste
Ginakabig sang Iloilo City government bilang isa ka dako nga kadalag-an ang pagkalakip sang siyudad bilang isa sa duha lamang ka mga siyudad sa Pilipinas sa United Nations’ 20 Cities Towards Zero Waste.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas sa Iloilo City, nalakip man ang San Fernando, Pampanga sa mga lokal nga pamunuan nga ginkilala nga nagademonstrar sang maayo kag innovative nga mga tikang agud nga mabuhinan ang higko.
Neil Ravena, iya ginpahayag nga isa gid ini ka dako nga pagkilala sa siyudad sang Iloilo bangud sa padayon man nga suporta ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas sa mga programa nga nagasiguro sang katinlo sang siyudad.
Dugang pa sini nga nagatinguha gid ang ila opisina nga magamit ang mga basura nga makoletkta sang ila mga personnel nga mangin alternatibo nga fuel para sa integrated solid waste management facility sang siyudad, ilabi na subong nga nagapangatubang sang krisis sa gatong ang pungsod.
Ravena sa publiko, ilabi na sa mga Ilonggo nga amligan ang dunang manggad sang siyudad kag dumilian gid ang paghaboy sang basura, ilabi na sa Iloilo river.
Sa statement naman ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, ginpanginbulahan gid sini ang tanan nga mga Ilonggo, nga may dako man nga papel sa paglab-ot sang amo nga kadalag-an.
Pahayag sang alkalde, wala sang untat ang pagpanikasog sang syudad sa pagdihon sang mga programa para sa zero waste agud nga ma-amligan ang palibot.
Pila ka drivers kag operators sa Iloilo, nagapanukot na sang fuel subsidy
Nagapanukot na ang pila ka mga drivers kag operators sang fuel subsidy nga ginpasalig sang gobyerno sa pagpanguna sang Department of Transportation and Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raymundo Boyet Parcon, Chairman sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, iya ginpahayag nga madugay na nga preparado ang mga e-wallet sang mga drivers kag operators nga ginpahayag mangin platform agud nga mas mapadasig ang pagrelease sang subsidiya.
Suno kay Parcon, ginatinguhaan man sang ila opisina nga magpakig-angot sa LTFRB 6 nahanungod sa fuel subsidy bangud ini amo ang nagpahayag nga tinguhaan sang ila opisina nga mapalab-ot gilayon sa mga natungdan ang subsidiya antes magtakop ang bulan sang Marso.
Dugang pa niya, kinahanglanun na gid sang transport sectors ang bulig sang gobyerno ilabi na nga wala man natigayon nga mapatuman ang fare hike sa mga Public Utility Vehicles.
DOE, isa ka proactive move ang temporaryo nga pagsuspende sa WESM
Isa ka proactive move sang Department of Energy ang temporaryo nga pagsuspende sang Wholesale Electricity Spot Market agud malikawan ang tuman nga pagsaka sa presyo sang kuryente sa Pilipinas.
Ini matapos nga nagdeklarar ang nga magapatuman sila sang dugang nga P2 tubtob P4 per kilowatt hour sa bulan sang Abril.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raphael Dorilag, Manager sang Energy Sourcing Department sang More Electric and Power Corporation, iya ginpahayag nga subong nga may krisis sa langis, posible gid nga may ara sang magamay nga pagtaas sa rate sang kuryente.
Ini bangud nga nagaumpisa na nga mabatyagan ang tuman ka-init nga panahon sa bilog nga pungsod kun sa diin nagataas man ang demand sang publiko.
Dugang pa niya, posible nga pagagamitun sang MORE power ang ila Diesel Power plants kun pagakulangun ang ila nga suplay, apang wala ini gina-engganyo sang gobyerno bangud sa kulang nga suplay sang diesel sa Pilipinas.
Dermatologist, naghatag sang libre nga konsultasyon natuhoy sa dandruff ukon kaspa
Naghatag sang libre nga konsultasyon ang dermatologist nga si Dr.
Rema Cejar natuhoy sa dandruff ukon kaspa, bilang kabahin sang “Health Talk” segment sa Good Morning Philippines.
Cejar, iya ginpahayag nga ang dandruff isa ka common nga skin condition nga nagadala sang kakatol sa anit, apang indi ini makalalaton.
Ginpahayag man niya nga posible ini magtinir sa ulo sang isa ka tawo kon indi mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga pag-atipan.
Suno sa iya ang indi regular nga paghugas sang buhok nagadala sang build-up sang oil kag higko nga mahimo magpalala sang kondisyon.
Gintudlo man niya nga ang stress isa man sa mga factor nga naga-increase sang oil production sa scalp, nga nagaresulta sa pagdamo sang kaspa.
Nagbilin man ini sang pahanumdom sa publiko nga importante ang husto nga hygiene kag pag-atipan sang buhok agud malikawan ang paglala sang dandruff kag iban pa nga scalp conditions.
Corporate professional nga tumandok sang Anini-y, Antique, nagsentro sa pag-antos kag pagbangon ang istorya sang inagihan
Nagsentro sa pag-antos kag pagbangon ang istorya sang inagihan sang isa ka corporate professional nga tumandok sang Anini-y, Antique apang naggradwar sa West Visayas State University sa Iloilo City.
Ini amo si Ivy Jean dela Serna nga bata pa lamang nabuksan na ang kaisipan nga tuman kabudlay ang pagkabuhi sa kalibutan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay dela Serna, iya ginpahayag nga tatlo ka tuig pa lang siya, nagaupod na ini sa iya iloy nga nagapanglaba agud makakwarta.
Ang iya naman nga amay, wala sang permanente nga trabaho gani ini ang nangin inspirasyon niya nga maghimakas gid ini nga makatapos sa iya pag-eskwela.
Apang indi gid nangin paborable ang kapalaran para sa ila.
Sang tuig 2015, isa ka masakit nga hitabo ang nagpabudlay pa gid sa sitwasyon sang ila pamilya kun sa diin napatay ang iya iloy bangud sa balatian.
Matapos naman ang pila ka tuig, napreso ang iya amay sa sala nga wala man sini nahimo.
Sa pihak sini, bisan may mga tion kun kaisa nga ginadumdom ni dela Serna nga kaangay ginadalukan sila sang isa ka malipayon nga pangabuhi, ini tanan naghatag pa gid sang kaisog sa iya agud maghimakas.
Nagbunga ini tanan matapos naggradwar ini sa kolehiyo bilang isa ka Magna Cum Laude nga suno sa iya bangud man sa bulig sang programa sang gobyerno sa ila.
Para kay dela Serna, bangud man sa bulig sang Ginoo sa iya kabuhi nangin posible ang mga bagay nga suno sa iya, kaangay nga nangin imposible sini nga malampuwasan.
Nagbilin man ini sang pahanumdom sa iban nga tawo nga dapat magpadayon lang, mag-focus sa kun ano man ang gusto mo nga malab-ot kag magsalig sa Ginoo bangud wala gid ini nagapabaya.
Billones, nagpahanumdom sang matuod nga kahulugan sang Palm Sunday ukon Domingo de Ramos
Billones, Arsobispo sang Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral sang matuod nga kahulugan sang Palm Sunday ukon Domingo de Ramos.
Ini nga indi dapat malipatan sang Kristiyanong katilingban ang dako nga sakripisyo nga ginbuhat ni Hesus para sa kaluwasan sang mga tawo.
Sa iya homily kaina sang aga, ginpunto sini ang importansya sang paghinulsol kag pag-reflect sang tagsa ka tumuluo sa ila mga sala, ilabi na sa pagsugod sang Holy Week nga ginatawag man sini nga “the holiest of all weeks.”
Suno kay Billones, ang pagsakripisyo ni Hesus nagapakita sang iya paghigugma sa katawhan nga asta sa iya kamatayon gindumdum sini ang iya pagpalangga sa iya mga anak.
Gin-agda man niya ang mga tumuluo nga ini nga tyempo, tion agud maghinulsol kag paghibalo sa kayo sang Diyos sa katawhan.
Nagpangabay man si Billones nga ang tagsa ka Kristiyano makapamalandong kag makabatyag sang matuod nga kahulugan sang sakripisyo ni Kristo samtang ginasaulog ang sini nga semana.
Bombo Radyo kag Star FM team, nagdul-ong sang dalagko nga pa-premyo sa ika-tatlo nga barangay draw sang “Buena Mano Salvo!
Nagdul-ong sang dalagko nga mga pa-premyo ang Bombo Radyo kag Star FM team sa ika-tatlo nga barangay draw sang “Buena Mano Salvo!
Year 20 Promo: Araw-araw Balde-baldeng Pa-premyo na, May Cash pa!”
Ginhiwat ini sa Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao Iloilo City kahapon sang hapon, Marso 28.
10 ang nagdaog sang tag P1,000 nga cash prize.
Tuman naman ang kasadya sang mga masunod:
Rizy Escudo, 40, residente sang Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Julie Ann Villaruz, 37, residente sang Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Rodesa Mejisa, 32, residente sang Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Lorzel Paunon, 55, residente sang Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Fethaly Roppe Cuestas, 10, residente sang Dike 2, Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Carene Ann Trabasas, 40, residente sang Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Emalyn Jalbuna, 62, residente sang Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Marie Ther Beboso, 36, residente sang Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Niema Gomo, 78, residente sang Baluarte, Molo, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Aireen Tubukan, 44, Block 49, Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina products kaangay sang Mr.
Earth Hour 2026, ginbuylugan sang mga Ilonggo
Ginbuylugan sang mga Ilonggo ang ginpatigayon nga Earth Hour kagab-i, Marso 28 nga nag-umpisa halin trenta minutos ang makaliad sa takna nga alas otso sa gab-i tubtob trenta minutos ang makaligad sa takna nga alas nwebe sa gab-i.
Naglab-ot naman sa kapin 700 ka mga indibidwal ang nagbuylog sa ika-apat nga tuig sang “Ligum-Dulom” ukon Earth Hour celebration sa Iloilo Provincial Government bilang kabahin sang kampanya para sa pag-amlig sang kalibutan kag pagkinot sang enerhiya.
Nagbuylog man sa Earth hour ang mga commercial establishments sa Distrito sang Mandurriao, Iloilo City, nga nagpakita man sang ila suporta sa nasambit nga inisyatibo.
Sa amo nga okasyon, ginpangabay ang publiko nga magpatay sang mga non-essential lights ukon indi man kinahanglanon nga suga sang isa ka oras.
Ini nga buluhaton ang nagasimbolo sang pag-ugyon sang pumuluyo para sa pagkonserbar sang kuryente.
Nahibaluan nga gin-engganyo man ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., ang tanan nga mga Pilipino nga mag-upod sa pag-obserbar sang Earth Hour kahapon nga adlaw.
Suno sa presidente, tion ato agud binag-binagon sang mga tawo ang ginapangatubang sang kalibutan nga climate change kag iban pa nga environmental issues.
Lakip man ang paggamit sang insakto sa kuryente kag petroleum products sa tunga sang nagapadayun nga krisis sa Middle East kun sa diin apektado ang Pilipinas.
Madumduman nga nagdeklarar si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., sang nagligad nga Marso 24, nga yara na sa idalom sang national energy emergency ang pungsod matapos ang padayun nga pagsaka sang presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo.
Iloilo City Goverment, ginpasiguro nga estable kag may ara pa sang nagakaigo nga suplay sang gatong kag LPG ang syudad
Ginpasiguro sang Iloilo City Goverment nga estable kag may ara pa sang nagakaigo nga suplay ang produktong petrolyo kag Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) ang syudad sang Iloilo.
Suno kay Mayor Raisa Treñas, matapos ang ila pagpakigsapol sa mga stakeholders sang produktong petrolyo kag LPG sa syudad sang Iloilo, ginpasiguro sang mga ini nga wala sang dapat kabalak-an bangud magadangat pa ini tubtob sa bulan sang Abril.
Suno pa sa alkalde, padayon ang ila pagserbisyo sa mga pumuluyo sa syudad agud masiguro nga mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga kinahanglanon ang mga panimalay kag negosyo sa syudad.
Dugang pa diri, padayon man ang ila koordinasyon sa ila mga partners sa energy sectors agud masiguro nga estable ang supply kag presyo sini, ilabi na subong nga may ara sang national energy concerns.
Mayor Treñas, napapanaog na ang Executive Order No.
035 nga nagatukod sang Iloilo City Crisis Management Council
Nangin epektibo na ang pagpatuman kahapon nga adlaw, Marso 28, saang ginpapanaug nga Executive Order No.
035, Series of 2026 ni Mayor Raisa Treñas nga nagatukod sang Iloilo City Crisis Management Council.
Ini kasunod sang pagdeklara sang state of national energy emergency ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr sa pungsod.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga kabahin ini sang pagpanghanda sa epekto sang padayon nga pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Suno pa kay Gorzal, sa bulig sang nagkalain-lain nga ahensya sang gobyerno ini nga executive order magahatag sang proteksyon sa publiko ilabi na sa mga vulnerable sectors nga labi nga nagakinahanglan sang bulig sa subong nga tion.
Ginapasangkad man sini ang koordinasyon sa mga pumuluyo agud masiguro ang padayon nga supply sang essential goods pareho sang pagkaon, bulong, kag gatong.
Kapin 350 ka mga uniformed kag non-uniformed personnel, iga-deploy para sa security deployment sang Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid sa Jordan, Guimaras
Iga-deploy ang kapin 350 ka mga uniformed kag non-uniformed personnel para sa security deployment sa ika-48 nga presentasyon sang Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid sa Jordan, Guimaras.
Benjie Ganancial, Deputy Chief, Jordan Municipal Police Station, iya ginapahayag nga bangud sang madamo nga nagakadto sa Guimaras agud magsaka sa Balaan Bukid, kinahanglan gid nga mapasiguro ang seguridad sang mga magabisita.
Magapahamtang man sang mga ambulansya kag fire trucks ang mga otoridad agud magresponde gilayon kun may emerhensya.
Ginapasiguro man sang mga awtoridad ang mahapos kag organisado nga pagsulod sang mga deboto kag turista sa nasambit nga lugar.
ICPO, nagahingyo sang koordinasyon halin sa publiko ilabi na sa mga opisyales sa pagkampanya batok sa iligal nga droga
Nagahingyo naman ang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sang koordinasyon halin sa publiko ilabi na sa mga barangay officials sa nagkalain-lain nga distrito sang syudad sa pagkampanya batuk sa iligal nga droga.
Shella Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang Iloilo City Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga wala nagakulang ang mga kapulisan sa pagmonitor sa mga persona nga naga-engage sa iligal drugs kag pagpangdakop sa mga suspek.
Apang, ginpahayag man niya nga dako nga bulig sa mga otoridad kun may yara sang koordinasyon ang mga residente kag barangay officials sa mga kapulisan.
Ini bangud nga sila ang mas nakabalo sang sitwasyon sa ila tagsa ka barangay kag nakakilala sa mga indibidwal nga nagapuyo diri.
Pahayag pa sini nga kalabanan sa mga drug subject ang nagasaylo-saylo sang ila lugar agud nga indi madali madakpan sang mga kapulisan.
ICPS 2, dismayado sa mga opisyales kag pumuluyo sang San Isidro, La Paz, bangud wala naga-coordinate nahanungod sa illegal drugs sa ila barangay
Dismayado ang mga otoridad sang Iloilo City Police Station (ICPS) 2 sa mga barangay officials, amo man sa mga pumuluyo sang San Isidro, La Paz, Iloilo City matapos nga wala ang mga ini naga-coordinate sa estado sang iligal nga droga sa ila nga barangay.
Gimel Acuesta, hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station (ICPS) 2, wala sang may naga-report sa ila sa sitwasyon sang illegal drugs sa nasambit nga barangay.
Pahayag niya kun wala nakasa ang mga nagkalain-lain nga drug buybust operation sa barangay kun sa diin sunod-sunod man nga nadakpan ang mga drug subject, wala nahibaluan nga alarming na ang iligal nga droga sa nasambit nga barangay.
Acuesta, personal man niya ginasekyar kag gina-monitor ang San Isidro La paz agud nga matul-id ang iban pa nga naga-engage sa illegal drugs kag malikawan ang paglapta sini.
157 ka mga tricycle driver sa distrito sang La Paz , napatughong na ang P500 fuel subsidy nga ginhatag sang Iloilo City Government
Natughong na sang 157 ka mga tricycle driver gikan sa nagkalain-lain nga toda sa distrito sang La Paz ang ila nga P500 fuel subsidy subong nga adlaw, Marso 28.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jomarie Bendaval, isa ka tricycle driver nga may ruta nga Javellana-San Pedro-Ledesco Village, iya ginpahayag nga daku ang bulig sang P500 nga fuel subsidy bangud nga makalibre ini sila sang gatong sa pila ka adlaw nga byahe.
Suno kay Bendaval, nagalab-ot pa sa isa ka semana sang una ang P500 pesos nga gatong apang subong asta na lang ini sa tatlo ka adlaw.
Pahayag niya, agud nga mas makatipid sila sa gatong wala na sila nagalibot kag nagapila na lang sa ila toda kun sa diin maximun lang sa lima ka pasahero ang ila pwede mapasakay sa isa ka byahe.
Apang, ginpahayag pa niya nga indi sa gihapon husto ang ila kita bangud nga halos tanan sini nagakadto na lang subong sa ila pagpagatong.
Dugang pa ni Bendaval, naga-umpisa siya byahe alas-syete sa aga tubtob alas-onse sa gab-i para madugangan ang iya kita bangud nga tama na gid ka pigado ka kabuhi subong ilabi na nga halos tanan nga balaklon nagataas ang presyo.
DSWD, magahatag man sang cash relief assistance sa mga tricycle drivers
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Therese Fely Legaste, Regional Information Officer, DSWD Field Office VI, iya ginpahayag nga P5,000 ang pagabatunon sang mga ini nga subsidiya halin sa gobyerno.
Suno kay Legaste, padayun pa ang koordinasyon sang ila ahensya sa local government units sang mga highly urbanized cities, component cities kag mga munisipalidad nahanungod sa igahatag nga assistance.
Ginpakigbahin man niya nga patigayunon ang distribution sang cash assistance sa Abril 8, ukon sa pagtakop sang semana santa.
Dugang pa ni Legaste, kinahanglan nga magpakig-angot anay sang mga tricycle drivers sa ila tagsa ka TODA kag Local Government Units agud mangin isa sa mga benepisyaryo.
PHILRECA, nagpahayag nga magataas ang presyo sang kuryente sa Abril
(PHILRECA) nga kinahanglan gid sang pungsod ang klaro nga mga tikang halin sa gobyerno agud nga mahagan-hagan ang epekto sang padayun nga nagasaka nga presyo sang gatong sa Pilipinas.
Janeene Depay-Colingan, Executive Director sag PHILRECA, iya ginpahayag nga magapataas na man sang presyo sa kuryente ang mga electric cooperatives sa bulan sang Abril bangud sa tuman ka mahal nga presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Suno kay Colingan, nagapangayo gid sila sang pasaylo sa publiko, apang nagasalig man ini nga maintindihan man sang kadam-an ang pag-increase sa electricity rate bangud halos tanan na nga sektor ang apektado sang krisis.
Isa man sa ginalantaw nga mangin solusyon sang asosasyon sa krisis amo ang matigayon na nga halinun ukon kaksun ang Value Added tax ukon VAT sa produktong petrolyo.
Dugang pa ni Colingan, wala pa man sang report halin sa mga electric cooperatives nga magamay nalang ang ila suplay sang enerhiya, samtang ang mataas sa gihapon nga presyo sang gatong ang nagapanguna nga problema sang mga kooperatiba.
ABC President sa Lapuz, nag-ugyon sa pahayag sang ICPO nga indi alarming ang illegal drugs sa syudad
Gin-ugyunan sang presidente sang Association of Barangay Captains (ABC) sa Lapuz, Iloilo City ang ginapanindugan sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga indi makaalarma ang sitwasyon sang iligal nga droga diri sa syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Arnel Asturias nga amo ang nagpatawag sang meeting agud istoryahan ang amo nga isyu, iya ginpahayag nga suportado sang data ang statement ni Police Lieutenant Colonel Lorenez Losaria sang nag-atubang ini sa ila.
Sa pagsinapol, tatlo ka bagay ang ginplastar sini nga mahimo gamiton nga rason suno sa iya nga masiling nga alarming na ang droga.
Una, dapat nga kinilo-kilo na sang droga ang makumpiskar; ikaduha, kun may mga opisyales ukon dalagku nga personalidad nga involved sa illegal drugs; kag ikatatlo, kun may mga opisyal nga nadakpan mismo sa operasyon.
Pahayag sini, tag-gamay lang ang na-recover sa Iloilo City kag magamay lang nga users indi pareho sa iban nga lugar kun sa diin may mga barangay officials pa nga involved.
Suno naman kay Asturias, sandig sa ginhambal ni Losaria, kun lantawon sang naglinigad nga mga tinuig, may yara pa gani sang mga dalagku nga mga personalidad nga nagakontrol sa Iloilo pag-abot sa iligal nga droga.
Pahayag pa sang punong barangay, nagsiling ang ICPO nga wala na sang ma-identify sa Iloilo subong nga amo ang nagakontrol sa diin man nga areas kun droga ang hambalan.
“Kun tan-awon naton, napanas ni sang tyempo ni [former President] Digong Duterte.
Nagpalagyo gani ang iban kay nahadlok, kay pila ka drug personalities sa aton ang napatay.
That’s why ang iya explanation, indi alarming ang iligal nga droga,” suno kay Asturias.
Sang ginpamangkot ini kun may kilala siya nga nagpalagyo, sabat ni Asturias: “Indi ta nalang na paghambal, kay bisan sin-o daw nakabalo man.
May ara man ta gani kilala nga sang una nagpalagyo man pero sang nagligad nag-spokesman spokesman man sa babaw nga nakibot man kita.”#
ICPO, nanindugan nga indi alarming ang iligal nga droga sa Iloilo City
Ginpanindugan sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) ang nauna nga statement sini nga indi maka-alarma ang iligal nga droga sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Matandaan nga si ICPO officer-in-charge Police Colonel Wilbert Parilla ang una nga nagpahayag sini subong nga semana.
Gin-ulan sang magkatuhay nga mga komento ang amo nga pahayag ni Parilla ilabi na bangud sa bag-o lang natabo nga insidente sang pagbun-anay sang duha ka mag-pamilya sa San Isidro, La Paz sang Sabado sang gab-i nga nagbilin sang apat ka mga patay.
Nag-ugat ang amo nga krimen sa ginapahayag palpak nga transaksyon sa shabu nga nagabalor sang P1,500.
Sa meeting naman sang mga punong barangay sa Lapuz nga naka-sentro sa diskusyon kun makaalarma ukon indi ang droga diri sa syudad, nangin tiglawas ni Parilla si Police Lieutenant Colonel Lorenez Losaria nga amo ang deputy city director for operations sang ICPO.
Tatlo ka bagay ang ginplastar sini nga mahimo gamiton nga rason suno sa iya nga masiling nga alarming na ang droga.
Gin-ugyunan naman sang presidente sang Association of Barangay Captains (ABC) sa Lapuz ang ginapanindugan sang ICPO.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Arnel Asturias nga amo ang nagpatawag sang meeting agud istoryahan ang amo nga isyu, iya ginpahayag nga suportado sang data ang statement ni Losaria sang nag-atubang ini sa ila.
Suno pa kay Asturias, kun lantawon sang naglinigad nga mga tinuig, may yara pa gani sang mga dalagku nga mga personalidad nga nagakontrol sa Iloilo pag-abot sa iligal nga droga.
Pahayag pa ni Asturias, nagsiling ang ICPO nga wala na sang ma-identify sa Iloilo subong nga amo ang nagakontrol sa diin man nga areas kun droga ang hambalan.
May ara man ta gani kilala nga sang una nagpalagyo man pero sang nagligad nag-spokesman spokesman man sa babaw nga nakibot man kita.”
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jamjam” Baronda nga makig-istorya ini kay Parilla agud maathagan kun ano ang buot silingon nga indi alarming ang illegal nga droga sa syudad.
Suno pa sa iya, sa pagpakighinun-anon sini sa mga pumuluyo, nagahambal ang mga ini nga tuman ka makalarma ang illegal nga droga sa syudad kag indi na safe.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kaangay nga wala sang kahadlok ang mga tawo nga nagagamit sang droga kun sa diin may nagakatabo nga pagpinatyanay kag iban pa nga krimen.
Gindugang sang kongresista nga magapatigayon ini sang privilege speech kun indi pa ma-address ini nga problema.#
Ginapreparar na ang datos kag rekisitos agud nga maka-request ang Iloilo Provincial Government sa Sangguniang Panlalawigan nga magdeklarar sang state of calamity sa probinsya sang Iloilo bangud sa nagapadayon nga krisis sa produktong-petrolyo.
Suno kay Governor Arthur Defensor, Jr., nagsapol na siya sa mga alkalde agud nga pangayuon ang ila nga bulig nga matipon ang data santo sa guidelines sang National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC).
Sa amo nga guidelines, mahimo madeklarar ang state of calamity kun 15% sang populasyon ang apektado ukon 30% sang economic sector ukon palangabuhian ang apektado.
Suno pa sa gobernador, kun may duha ukon masobra pa nga mga banwa nga magdeklarar sang state of calamity, mahimo man ini nga mangin basehan.
Kun ma-secure na ini, diri na kag i-convene ang Provincial DRRMC antes nga mag-request sang deklarasyon halin sa provincial board.
Sa subong suno sa governor, may yara sang P82-million nga Quick Response Fund (QRF) ang probinsya apang indi ini bastante para nga ma-cover ang nagakinahanglan sang bulig.
Dira kita nagapabulig sa aton nga mga munisipyo,” suno kay Defensor.
Magluwas sa pagsapol sa mga alkalde kaina, gin-istoryahan man ang fuel supply situation sa Western Visayas kaupod ang Department of Energy-Visayas Field Office.
Ginplastar ang data sa report sang DOE nga as of March 20, 2026, makaigu pa ang gasolina sa 53 ka adlaw; makaigu ang diesel sa 45 ka adlaw; kag makaigu ang fuel oil sa 61 ka adlaw.
Gintumod naman ang nagapanguna nga mga pagpanghangkat kaangay sang pagpabaskog pa sang energy conservation and efficiency measures; pagpasiguro sang paghatag-prayoridad sa importante nga mga sektor; kag pag-address sa economic impact sang pagtimbuok sang presyo sang gatong.
LIGUM-DULOM: Provincial Gov’t, nagapanawagan sa mga Ilonggo nga mag-upod sa Earth Hour ’26
Gina-engganyo sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang mga Ilonggo nga mag-upod sa obserbasyon sang Earth Hour 2026 kun sa diin ilabi nga pabaloran ang pagkinot sang kuryente.
Ginapangabay ang pagpatay sang non-essential lights ukon indi man kinahanglanon nga mga suga sa sulod sang isa ka oras halin 8:30 p.m.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mitzi Peñaflorida, head sang Environmental Programs and Management Services Division sang Provincial Environment and Natural Resources Office (PGENRO), iya ginpahayag nga ginpalab-ot na nila ini nga panawagan tubtub sa kabanwahanan, kabarangayan, kag mangin sa mga balay kag establisyemento.
Magluwas sa pagpatay sa mga suga, may ginpreparar man nga programa kag nagkalain-lain nga mga aktibidad sa Iloilo Provincial Capitol nga magasugod naman alas singko sa hapon.
Paga-updan ini sang health office, Sangguniang Kabataan, Red Cross, water districts, kag iban pa.
Sa mga magatambong sa event sa Kapitolyo, mahimo makapa-rehistro alas kuatro sa hapon.
Ang kada participant gina-require nga magdala sang liso ukon seedling sang native ukon fruit-bearing tree bilang suporta naman sa “Tanum Iloilo” program sang probinsya.
Nahibaluan nga ini na ang pang-apat nga tuig sang “Ligum-Dulom” celebration sa Iloilo.
Ang dululungan nga pagpatay sang non-essential electricity kag equipment amo ang pagpakita sang simboliko kag importante nga akto sang pagkinot kag pagbulig sa kalibutan.
Ginsuguran sang World Wide Fund for Nature ang obserbasyon sang Earth Hour sang 2007 tubtub nga nangin isa ini ka global environmental campaign nga gina-updan sang minilyon ka mga tawo nga nagapatay sang ila mga suga sa sulod sang isa ka oras agud nga mapasangkad pa ang ihibalo natuhoy sa climate change.
Ginalantaw man sang kadam-an nga labi pa nga importante ang partisipasyon sa Earth Hour subong nga tuig ilabi na bangud sang nagakatabo nga energy crisis sa madamo nga mga pungsod.
Fare hike sa vessels nga nagabyahe sa Jordan-Iloilo City and vice versa, maga-umpisa sa Abril 7
Ginklaro sang local government unit sang Jordan, Guimaras nga sa Abril 7 pa mangin epektibo ang saka sa pletehay sa fiber vessels nga nagabyahe sa Jordan pa-Iloilo City and vice versa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor John Edward Gando, iya ginpahayag nga sandig sa ila na-istoryahan sang Guimaras Island Transport Multipurpose Cooperative (GITMPC), kinahanglan pa nila i-comply ang 14 ka adlaw nga posting requirement nga ginapatuman sang gobyerno.
Buot silingon sini, kinahanglan anay nila ipahibalo sa mga pasahero sa sulod sang duha ka semana nga may saka sa pletehay antes ini i-implementar epektibo sa Abril 7.
Gin-athag man ni Gando nga temporaryo lamang ang fare hike samtang nga may krisis pa kag nagatimbuok ang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo.
Pananglitan magbalik na sa normal ang sitwasyon suno sa alcalde, hikuton man ang adjustments agud nga mapabalik sa normal ang pletehay sang mga commuter.
Sa updated fare matrix, yari ang rates nga isukot sa mga pasahero:
Matandaan nga sang Marso 24 sang gin-anunsyo sang Guimaras Provincial Government ang fare increase.
Ginpalab-ot sa mga pumuluyo nga nakasugtan ang adjustment matapos ang mahinalungon nga konsiderasyon kag malawig nga diskusyon sa stakeholders agud nga mabalanse ang operational needs sang transport sector kag ang ikaayo sang commuting public.
Antes ang pagsapubliko sang agreement, may yara man sang consultative meeting ang probinsya nga ginpatigayon.#
Jordan LGU, handa na sa pag-abi-abi sa mga bisita sa ‘Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid’
Ginpasalig sang Jordan Local Government Unit nga preparado na ini sa pag-abot sang mga dumuluong kag mga tumuluo para sa ika-48 ka tuig sang Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid sa probinsya sang Guimaras.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jordan Mayor John Edward Gando, iya ginpahayag nga sa Abril 3 patigayunon ang bantog nga Lenten tradition nga nagapakita sang pag-antos ni Hesus kag paglansang sa Iya sa Krus.
Preparado na ang security plan sang kapulisan amo man ang paghatag sang medical services pananglitan may maglain ang pamatyag.
Sa kinaandan sa nagligad nga mga tuig, naga-umpisa ang prusisyon sa “Smallest Plaza” sa Barangay Poblacion apang subong, maga-umpisa ini sa atubang sang munisipyo kag mas malapit sang gamay ang ruta.
May gamay man nga kinalain sa produksyon apang amo man gihapon ang mga eksena nga iga-reenact kadungan sang presentasyon.
Bantog sa bilog nga Western Visayas ang “Pagtaltal sa Balaan Bukid” nga nagsugod sadtong 1975.
Mga pulis, i-deploy sa pilgrimage sites kag convergence areas sa Iloilo kadungan sang Semana Santa
Iga-deploy ang mga pulis sa mga pilgrimage sites sa probinsya sang Iloilo kun sa diin linibo ka mga tumuluo ang ginaantisipar nga magakadto kadungan sang Semana Santa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Lt.
Colonel Rolando Araño, spokesperson sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO), iya ginpahayag nga magluwas sa mga personnel halin sa municipal police stations, may yara man sang iga-augment nga dugang nga pwersa halin sa mobile force companies.
Lakip sa ginadugukan sa Holy Week kada tuig sa Iloilo amo ang Taltal sa Barotac Viejo kag ang Agony Hill sa Alimodian nga ginakadtuan naman para sa Stations of the Cross.
Suno pa kay Araño, may ipalapta man nga mga pulis sa mga lugar kun sa diin nagatingob ang madamo nga mga tawo kaangay sang mga pantalan, terminal, simbahan, kag iban pa.
May yara man sang ipadala nga mga covert kag police assistance desk personnel.
Sa masunod nga inadlaw suno sa IPPO, natalana na nga ipadalom sa heightened alert status ang talatapan.
Ginpahanumdom man sa mga pumuluyo, ilabi na sa mga may plano nga magbiya anay sa ila nga mga balay, nga mag-doble halong gid ilabi na nga ginakuha sang mga kriminal ini nga oportunidad agud nga makapang-hingalit kag makapangawat.#
ATOP, nagapati nga wala sang dako nga mabulig ang pagsuspende sang excise tax sa gatong
Nagapati ang Association of Taxi Operators of Panay nga wala halos sang dako nga mabulig ang pagsuspende sang excise tax sa nagapadayun nga pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Perfecto Yap, Presidente sang nasambit nga asosasyon, iya ginpahayag nga makabulig man ang nasambit nga lihok sang gobyerno sa transport sectors, apang P6 lang ang mabuhin sa presyo sang gatong nga magapabilin sa gihapon sa mga produktong petrolyo sa balor nga masobra P100.
Suno pa sa iya, wala gid nagasanto ang tikang nga ini agud nga mahagan-hagan ang krisis sa Pilipinas.
Madumduman nga ginpirmahan na ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., ang layi nga nagapahanugot sa iya nga suspendihon ukon buhinan ang excise tax sa produktong petrolyo nga mangin epektibo matapos ang 15 ka adlaw matapos niya ini napirmahan.
ICPO, naantisipar nga posible nga magataas ang kaso sang kinawatay subong nga may krisis sa Pilipinas
Gina-antisipar sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga possible nga magataas ang kaso sang kinawatay kag iban pa nga petty crimes subong nga yara sa tion sang krisis ang bilog nga pungsod.
Wilbert Parilla, Officer-in-charge sang ICPO, subong nga nagataas ang presyo sang gatong kag mga balaklon, mas nangin mabudlay ang sitwasyon sa publiko kag possible nga tunaan pa sang mga krimen.
Ginsiling ni Parilla nga agud malikawan ang pagtaas sang record sang krimen, magapatuman sang adjustment sa deployment ang mga kapulisan kag mas pasangkarun ang police visibility sa pila ka mga lugar sa siudad.
Dugang pa niya, kinahanglan nga mag-aligmat gid subong nga nagapadulong naman ang summer vacation kun sa diin kalabanan sa mga magpamilya ang nagalagaw sa mga nanari-sari nga lugar nga isa man ka dako nga oportunidad sa mga indibidwal nga may tuyo nga magpangawat.
WVTC, balik byahe ang tanan nga unit subong nga Marso 26
Balik byahe ang 100% unit sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative subong nga adlaw, matapos nga 50% lamang sang ila units ang nagbyahe kahapon, Marso 25.
Ini amo ang ila ginpatigayon matapos nga naobserbaran nga madamo ang mga pasahero subong nga adlaw bangud sa pila ka mga aktibidad sa siudad kaangay sang graduation kag transport strike.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raymundo Boyet Parcon, Chairman sang WVTC, iya ginpahayag nga ginalikawan nila nga magbyahe ang tanan nila nga units bangud dako na gid ang kaperdehan sang ila nga kooperatiba nga naglab-ot na sa P100,000 kada adlaw.
Suno sa iya, dako gid ang epekto sang padayun nga pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong bangud halin sa P2,500 tubtob P2,700 nga gasto para sa krudo antes ang tension sa Middle East, yara na subong sa masobra P4,000 ang ila nga ginagasto para sa 40 ka litro nga diesel.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, nagahulat sa gihapon sila sang igahatag nga fuel subsidy sang gobyerno, apang padayun man nga nagapati nga ang pagpatuman sang fare hike ang isa sa mangin solusyon agud nga indi man matam-an ang transport sector bangud sa krisis nga ginapangatubang sang pungsod sa produktong petrolyo.
Forro, natingala sa pahayag ni PBBM nga wala pa ang sakto nga tion agud isuspende ang excise tax sa gatong
Padayun ang panawagan sang pila ka mga progresibo nga grupo halin sa transport sector sa siudad sang Iloilo sa ginpatigayon nga people’s strike subong nga adlaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elmer Forro, Secretary General sang Bayan Panay kag Lead Convenor sang No to PUV Phaseout Coalition Panay, iya ginpahayag nga kinahanglan na gid sang mga driver kag operators sang ayuda halin sa gobyerno, apang nagpahayag man ini nga indi sa gihapon isa ka long term solution ang ayuda sa krisis sa gatong.
Suno sa iya nga makatililingala nga wala sa gihapon sang ‘best time’ para kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
agud suspendihon na ang excise tax sa mga produktong petrolyo.
Ginpahayag man ni Forro nga subong nga wala pa sang suspension sa excise tax, ang gobyerno kag cartel lamang ang nagabenepisyo sa sitwasyon, samtang nagaantos naman ang publiko ilabi na ang mga imol.
Dugang pa niya, posible nga magapatigayon sila liwat sang transport strike sa masunod nga semana bangud nga nagpalab-ot man ang pila ka drivers kag operators sa probinsya nga luyag nila nga mag-upod sa panawagan sa gobyerno.
City Government, posible nga magahatag man sang rice subsidy sa mga drivers
Tinguhaan ni Iloilo Mayor City Raisa Treñas nga indi lang fuel subsidy ang igahatag sang city government sa mga transport sectors kun indi amo man ang rice subsidy.
Ini amo ang kabahin sang mensahe ni Treñas matapos ang tagtaganay sang fuel subsidy coupon sa mga tricycle drivers sang City proper nga ginpatigayon sa City Hall, subong nga adlaw.
Suno sa iya, sa tion sang krisis, ubrahun gid niya ang iya masarangan agud mabuligan ang transport sector paagi sa paghatag sang nasambit nga subsidiya.
Ginpakigbahin man sang alkalde nga gina-finalize na lang ang mga kinahanglanon nga mga dokumento bangud kabahin man sang fuel subsidy program sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) ang mga tricycle drivers nga una pagahatagan sang subsidya.
Punong Barangay sang San Isidro, nagahingyo sang dugang nga bantay sa ila lugar
Nagahingyo si Punong Barangay Felicitas Hortillosa sang Barangay San Isidro, La Paz, sang dugang nga magabantay nga police personnel sa ila lugar matapos ang nagluntad nga stabbing incident sang nagligad nga Marso 21, kun sa diin apat ang patay sa inaway sa tunga sang pamilya Muya kag pamilya Provido.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Hortillosa, iya ginpahayag nga nagakabalaka gid sila sa posibilidad nga liwat nga magluntad ang komosyon sa ila barangay, apisar nga wala naman sang baslanay nga natabo matapos ang pagbinun-anay sang duha ka pamilya.
Suno sa iya, nagpadala man siya sang request letter kay Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas agud nga mabuligan sila nga i-endorso sa Iloilo City Police Office kag La Paz PNP agud nga mabantayan gid ang lugar ilabi na kun mahaya na ang mga bangkay sang nagtaliwan nga myembro sang Pamilya Muya.
Nahibaluan nga igahaya naman ang tatlo ka mga napatay nga myembro sang Pamilya Provido sa Brgy.
Lanit, Jaro, agud nga malikaw sa gamo ang tagsa ka pamilya.
Kabahin man sang tikang nga mangin mahilway ang barangay amo ang paglikaw anay sang mga residente nga mag-inom-inom sa higad sang dalan kun sa diin may magalibot man nga mga tanod agud nga masiguro nga wala sang magpasaway nga mga residente.
Natigayon na nga mapasar sa Iloilo City Council ang ordinansa nga ginduso ni Iloilo City Councilor Jose Maria “Nene” de la Llana nga Health Care Proxy Ordinance.
Ini amo ang ordinansa nga nagatuyo nga mas mangin madasig ang medical services sa mga pasyente sang siudad nga wala sang pamilya nga magdesisyon nahanungod sa ila ikaayong lawas kag maka-appoint sang isa ka indibidwal nga mangin iya Health Care Agent.
Lakip diri amo ang mga LGBTQIA+ members nga luyag nga maghatag sang kahigayunan sa ila partners nga mangin health care agent sa tion nga may ara sang medical emergencies.
Nahibaluan nga isa ang siudad sang Iloilo sa mga lugar sa Pilipinas nga nagpatigayon nga mapasar ang nasambit nga ordinansa agud nga makadesisyon gilayon ang mga pumuluyo kun health care ang hambalan.
LTFRB 6, tinguhaan nga mahatag na sa mga drivers ang fuel subsidy antes magtakop ang bulan
Ginatinguhaan sang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) Region 6 nga mahatag na sa mga drivers kag operators sang Western Visayas ang fuel subsidy antes pa nga matapos ang bulan sang Marso.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay LTFRB 6 Atty.
Joscet Abellar, Chief of Transportation Development Office, iya ginpahayag nga ginapreparahan pa nila ang iban nga kinahanglanon nga dokumento para sa sa subsidiya halin sa Department of Transportation (DOTr), apang natigayon naman nga mapasa ang mga requirements sa Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
Suno sa iya, ang subsidiya nga igahatag sang Department of Transportation amo ang ipaagi sa E-wallet agud nga mas mapadasig ang paghatag sang subsidiya para sa mga drivers kag operators.
Dugang pa ni Abellar, madasig man nga naghatag sang mga kinahanglanon nga mga requirements ang mga beneficiaries, rason nga possible nga mabatun gid sang mga ini ang subsidiya halin sa gobyerno.
Sugar industry sa Central Panay, apektado man sang nagataas nga presyo sang gatong
Apektado sa karun ang sugar industry sa Central Panay, bangud sa nagataas nga presyo sang gatong dala man sang padayon nga tension sa Middle East.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Bingawan municipal mayor Matt Palabrica, iya ginpahayag nga peak subong sang milling season sa nasambit nga rehiyon sang amo nga produkto kag madamo sa karun sang mga mangunguma sang kalamay ang nagaantos sa transportasyon sang ila produkto.
Dugang pa ni Palabrica nga wala pa sang pagtaas sa presyo sang kalamay sa subong nga tion, bangud sakop pa sang imported sugar ang ginabaligya sa merkado.
Wala pa sa karun sang pagtaas sa presyo sang kalamay, apang ginalauman nga magapatuman man ang mga ini sang price increase pananglitan nga magtaas man ang inflation sang pungsod.
Nagapaabot man ang sugar planters sang ayuda halin sa gobyerno, bangud kaangay sang sector sa transportasyon, apektado man ang mga ini sang mataas nga presyo sang gatong.
Pila ka mga commuters, nahangpan gid ang pagpatuman sang fare hike sa mga fiber boats nga may ruta Guimaras-Iloilo
Nahangpan sang pila ka mga commuters ang pagpatuman sang fare hike sa mga fiber boats nga may ruta Guimaras-Iloilo vice versa.
Nahibaluan nga nagpatuman sang fare hike ang mga fiber boats nga may ruta Guimaras-Iloilo vice versa, kun sa diin halin sa P30 sa regular nga pasahero, nagsaka sa P40 kag P32 naman sa may diskwento.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ces Dion Martinez, isa ka college estudyante sa siyudad sang Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga apisar mabug-at sa iya ang amo nga pagtaas sang pamasahe, nahangpan gid sini ang amo nga sitwasyon bangud sa mataas nga presyo sang gatong.
Paathag niya nga naluoy man ini sa mga operators sang amo nga sakayan, bangud kaangay nila, mas nagaatos ang mga ini sa ginapangatubang sang pungsod nga krisis sa gatong.
Pila ka mga commuters, nakibot matapos nagsaka ang pamasahe sa mga fiber boats nga may ruta Guimaras-Iloilo
Nakibot ang pila ka mga commuters matapos nagsaka ang pamasahe sa mga fiber boats nga may ruta Guimaras-Iloilo vice versa nga halin sa P30 sa regular nga pasahero, nagsaka sa P40 kag P32 naman sa may diskwento.
Sa interview sang Bombo Rdayo kay alyas June, isa ka estudyante sa Guimaras State University, iya ginpahayag nga mabug-at sa iya bilang isa ka estudyante ang amo nga fare hike.
Dugang pa sini nga limitado lamang ang budget niya bilang isa ka estudyante kag panigurado nga kulangun gid ang P200 nga budget sini sa isa ka adlaw.
Apisar nga mabug-at ini para sa iya nga isa ka estudyante, hangpun nalang niya ini bisan mabugt-an sa iya bulsa kag makinot na lamang ini sa iya nga galastusan.
Ricci Rivero, ginpangunahan ang kadalag-an sang iya team batok sa Terrafirma Dyip matapos makatipon sang 40 points
Ginpangunahan sang PBA Phoenix Fuel Masters player nga si Ricci Rivero ang kadalag-an sang iya team batok sa Terrafirma Dyip matapos makatipon sang 40 points sa ila hampang sa Commissioner’s Cup sa Ynares Center Antipolo.
Nakakuha si Rivero sang pito ka three-pointers kag nag-shoot sang 14-of-22 gikan sa field.
Nagsugod ini sa maayo nga performance kag nagpadayon sa pagdominar sa Dyip.
Sa halftime, nagpanguna ang Phoenix sa score nga 56-46, kag nagbukas ang third quarter nga nakapuntos sang 40-27 kontra Terrafirma, nga naghatag sang dako nga abanse nga 96-73 antes magsugod ang katapusan nga quarter.
Ginpabilin sang Fuel Masters ang kontrol tubtob sa katapusan sang hampang agud masiguro ang kadalag-an.
PBBM, nag-distansya sa palamangkutanon kun posible bala anay nga i-take over sang gobyerno ang pagdumala sang industriya sang gatong
sa palamangkutanon kun posible bala anay nga i-take over sang gobyerno ang pagdumala sang industriya sang gatong sa tunga sang ginabatyag subong nga krisis sa suplay kag presyo sini sa global market.
Ginpahayag sang Presidente nga indi sini gusto nga istoryahan ang nasambit nga butang.
Nahibaluan nga una na nga gin-ako sang Presidente nga wala sang kontrol ang gobyerno sa presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo, ilabi na nga nga nagabag-o bag-o ang presyo sini sa world market.
Ginpahayag man sini nga mangin ang mga nagaproduce sang gatong indi sigurado kun tubtob san-o magpadayon ang suplay, ilabi na nga apektado ang mga ini sang giyera nga nagakatabo sa Middle East kun sa diin nahamtang ang Strait of Hormuz, nga amo ang alagyan sang mga ginadala nga langis pakadto sa nagkalain-lain nga parte sang kalibutan.
Suno sa Presidente, mabudlay magplano kun nagapadayon ang pagbag-o bag-o nga presyo sang gatong.
Amo man sini ang rason kun ngaa nagapangita sila sang maayo nga lebel sang suporta, kaangay sang pagsuspinde sang pila ka charges sa mga produkto nga pagkaon kag iban pa nga mga inisyatibo agud indi mabatyagan sang pumuluyo ang mabug-at nga epekto sang nagakatabo subong sa Middle East.
Baylo sang piso kontra dolyar, nagnubo kasunod sang deklarasyon sang national energy emergency
Nagnubo ang baylo sang piso kontra sa US dollar kasunod sang deklarasyon sang national energy emergency kag pagpatuman sang whole-of-government response agud masiguro ang estable nga suplay sang enerhiya sa tunga sang kinagamo nga nagakatabo sa Middle East.
Suno sa isa ka economist ang pagluya sang piso bangud sang deklarasyon sang energy emergency samtang padayon ang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong, nga mahimo magdala sang inflation sa double-digit nga lebel.
ang pagpatuman sang Unified Package for Livelihoods, Industry, Food, and Transport (UPLIFT) para sa mga apektado nga sektor.
Katuyuan sini mapahulag ang gobyerno agud masiguro ang mapag-on nga suplay sang enerhiya, suportahan ang mga importante nga sektor kaangay sang transportasyon, agrikultura, kag micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs), kag agud maprotektahan ang mga Pilipino batok sa kinagamo nga nagakatabo sa global market.
Nagpaandam naman si Department of Economy, Planning, and Development (DepDev) Secretary Arsenio Balisacan nga mahimo magsaka sa double-digit ang inflation kun magpadayon ang pagtaas sang presyo sang diesel, nga mahimo magsaka tubtob P162.50 kada litro sa Mayo kun mag-abot sa 200 dollars ang kada bariles sang krudo.
Sang Pebrero, ang inflation naglab-ot sa 2.4% nga isa sa pinakamadasig nga natabo sa 13 ka bulan halin sa 2.9% sang Enero 2025, ini bangod man sang pagsaka sang presyo sang pagkaon, mga ilimnon kag mga galastuhon sa balay.
VP Sara Duterte, handa nga sabton ang mga reklamo sang impeachment batok sa iya sa isa ka “proper forum”
Handa si Vice President Sara Duterte nga sabton ang mga reklamo sang impeachment batok sa iya sa isa ka “proper forum,” suno sa iya legal team.
Ini kasunod sa iya wala pagtambong sa hearing sang House Committee on Justice nahanungod sa impeachment nga natabo subong nga adlaw, Marso 25.
Ginklaro man sang abogado sini nga wala ginatalikdan ni Duterte ang iya mga katungdanan nga magpahayag sang dapat sini panindugan, pagkontra, ukon paggamit sini sang iya constitutional rights.
Antes sang press conference, nagsumiter ang kampo ni Duterte sang sulat kay Committee Chairperson kag Batangas Rep.
Gerville Luistro, nga ang panel nag-lapaw sa ginpahamtang nga limitasyon sang Konstitusyon bangod sa isa ka proseso nga dapat una nga imbestigasyon bilang isa ka “mini-trial.”
Samtang, suno naman kay Luistro nga ang hearing sang committee nga natabo subong nga adlaw indi isa ka “trial” kundi isa lamang ka “clarificatory hearing” nga may katuyuan nga hibaluon kun may yara sang nagakaigo nga basehan ukon (probable cause) agud madayon ang trial sa Senado.
Ang mga reklamo sang impeachment batok kay Duterte nagalakip sang mga akusasyon sang betrayal of public trust, bribery, graft and corruption, kag ang sala nga paggamit sang P612 million nga confidential funds.
33 ka mga tricycle drivers sa Molo, lakip sa nahatagan na sang fuel subsidy coupon
Lakip ang 33 ka mga tricycle drivers sa distrito sang Molo ang nakabaton na sang ila nga coupon para sa programa sang city government nga P500 fuel subsidy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Aguinaldo Bulanon, 41-anyos, iya ginpahayag nga isa ini ka dako nga bulig bangud nga makabyahe na ang ginhatag nga P500 fuel subsidy sa duha ka adlaw.
Dugang pa niya, antes pa ang fuel crisis, makadala pa sila pauli sang masobra P800 nga ila kinitaan sa isa ka adlaw, apang subong yara nalang sa P400 ang madala nila sa ila tagsa ka pamilya.
Si Bulanon amo ang isa sa 1,718 ka mga tricycle drivers nga makabaton sang fuel subsidy humalin Marso 25 tubtob Marso 26, 2026 kun sa diin mahimo na nila ini nga ma-claim sa Biernes, Marso 27.
Opisyal sang San Isidro, nagapasalamat nga amat-amat na nga napangdakop ang mga durugista
Nagapasalamat ang Barangay Kagawad sang San Isidro, La Paz, nga amat-amat na nga nagakadakpan ang mga indibidwal sa likod sang iligal nga droga sa ila barangay, matapos ang nagluntad nga stabbing incident sang nagligad nga Marso 21, sa tunga sang Pamilya Muya kag Provido.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Benjie Legada, Barangay Kagawad sang nasambit nga lugar, iya ginpahayag nga ila na gid nga ginakonsiderar nga alarming na ang mga hitabo kag ang kadamuon sang durugista sa nasambit nga barangay.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginpahayag ni Legada nga wala na makit-an sa ila barangay kag ginapatihan nga nalagyo si Alex Jadulos nga isa sa ginpasakaan sang kaso kaangot sa kamatayon sang apat ka mga indibidwal.
Suno kay Legada, mabuot kag wala sang gamo si Jadulos kun wala makainom, apang kun mahubog, nagalain na ang batasan sini.
Samtang, natalana naman subong nga adlaw nga ihaya ang bangkay ni Tyron Muya nga isa sa mga napatay.
Bayani Razalan, nga gilayon nga sulbaron ang kaso sang shooting incident sa Población A, Duenas, Iloilo, sang nagligad nga Marso 23.
Rolando Araño, spokesperson sang IPPO, iya ginpahayag nga nagahulag na ang provincial investigation team agud nga matul-id ang motibo sa pagpangluthang sa biktima nga si Marigold Jamelo nga isa ka negosyante kag residente sang Brgy.
Suno kay Araño, ginalantaw nila kun may ara sang naagrabyado nga indibidwal si Jamelo nga nangin rason sang pagbalos sini sa iya nga gintunaan sang kamatayon sang biktima.
Nahibaluan nga may ara na sang ginalantaw kag ginasundan na nga person of interest ang mga awtoridad nahanungod sa insidente, apang padayun pa ang imbestigasyon sang mga kapulisan.
Constitutional law expert, nagsuhestyon sa gobyerno nga pokusan anay ang problema sa krisis sa gatong antes ang pag-una sa impeachment complaint batok kay VP Sara Duterte
Nagsuhestyon ang isa ka constitutional law expert sa gobyerno, nga nagakadapat anay nga pokusan sang mga mamalidha ang problema sa krisis sa gatong kag indi ang pag-una sang mga indi “urgent” nga butang pareho sang impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Nahibaluan nga subong man nga adlaw ang una nga hearing sang impeachment complaint batok kay VP Duterte sa kamara.
Michael Henry Yusingco, iya ginpahayag nga madamo sa karun sang problema nga ginapangatubang ang pungsod, ilabi na ang problema sa gatong nga nagakadapat nga unahon sang mga opisyales sang gobyerno, ilabi na nga ang Pilipinas ang dependent sa importation sang amo nga produkto.
Yusingco nga dapat anay pokusan ang legislation, pareho sang pag-amyenda sang oil deregulation law nga dako gid nga bulig sa isyu sang nagataas nga presyo sang langis sa subong nga tion.
Paathag ni Yusingco nga ang nasambit nga mga isyu ang dako nga makaapekto sa kadam-an kag sa recovery sang pungsod sa kabilugan kag kinaganhlan gid hatagan sang maid-id nga pagtalakay kag solusyon.
Shabu nga ginsulod sa balunan sang kan-on kag tuyo i-deliver sa isa ka preso, nadakpan sang mga kapulisan
Nalaskaran ang plano sang mga abyan sang ginapahayag “source” sang maglive-in partner nga si alyas Badoy kag Tami Muya, matapos nga nadakpan ang mga ini nga nagdul-ong sang shabu sa presuhan.
Nahibaluan nga nadakpan man sa isa ka drug buy bust operation sang La Paz PNP ang mag-live-in partner nga una man gintudlo sang pamilya Provido nga source sang illegal nga droga ni Johnny Provido nga isa sa apat ka nagkalamatay sa stabbing incident sang gintalikdan nga Marso 21 sa Brgy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay PCPT Gimel Acuesta, hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station 2, iya ginpahayag nga sa pagbisita sang mga abyan sang ginapahayag source ni Alyas Badoy sa presuhan, didto kag natukiban sang mga kapulisan nga may ready to use nga shabu nga natakpan sang kan-on kag nasulod sa isa ka plasticware.
Suno pa kay Acuesta nga madamo sang koneksyon si Tami Muya sa dalagkuan nga mga drug personality sa Metro Manila kun sa diin didto man sini ginakuha ang iban niya nga supply sang illegal drugs.
Ululupod sa karon sa prisohan sang ICPS 2 ang tanan nga nadakpan nga mga drug subject lakip na si Tami Muya kag alyas Badong.
Baronda, makig-istorya kay Director PCol.
Parilla agud maathagan sa buot silingon nga indi alarming ang illegal nga droga sa syudad
Wilbert Parilla sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) agud maathagan kun ano ang buot silingon nga indi alarming ang illegal nga droga sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Ini may kaangtanan sa nagluntad nga stabbing incident sa Zone 5 San Isidro, La Paz gab-i sang Marso 21,2026 nga nagresulta sa apat tanan ka indibidwal nga ginbawian sang kabuhi kun sa diin palpak nga transakyon sa illegal nga droga ang ginhalinan.
Suno kay Lone District Representative Julliene ”Jam-Jam” Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ka alarming ini sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Suno pa sa iya nga sa pagpakighinun-anon sini sa mga pumuluyo nagahambal ang mga ini nga tuman ka makalarma ang illegal nga droga sa syudad kag indi na safe ang seguridad sang pumuluyo.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kaangay nga wala sang kahadlok ang mga tawo nga nagagamit sang illegal nga droga kun sa diin may nagakatabo nga pagpinatyanay kag pagbinun-anay.
Gindugang man sini nga magapatigayon ini sang privilege speech kun indi pa ini ma-address nga problema.
BAYAN Panay: ‘Ayuda, ginagamit ng gobyerno para sa political gain’
Iginiit ng BAYAN-Panay na ginagamit umano ng gobyerno ang pamimigay ng ayuda sa gitna ng krisis bilang paraan para makakuha ng political gain.
Ayon sa grupo, sa halip na maging patas at sistematiko ang distribusyon ng tulong, nagiging instrumento umano ito para mapalakas ang impluwensiya ng ilang opisyal, lalo na sa mga komunidad na may mataas na bilang ng botante.
Binigyang-diin pa ng BAYAN-Panay na dapat nakabatay sa pangangailangan ng mamamayan ang pamamahagi ng ayuda at hindi sa interes ng pulitika.
Anila, mahalaga ang transparency at accountability upang matiyak na ang tulong ay makarating sa mga tunay na nangangailangan.
Idinagdag pa ni Forro na umano’y “highly selective” ang implementasyon ng subsidy rollout, kung saan sinasabing bibigyang prayoridad sa Iloilo City ang mga miyembro ng kooperatiba at rehistradong botante.
Ayon kay Forro, tila mas nakatuon ang naturang sistema sa pagkontrol ng distribusyon para sa political gain kaysa sa agarang pagtugon sa pangangailangan ng mamamayan.
Sa kabila nito, nanawagan ang grupo sa pamahalaan na ayusin ang sistema ng distribusyon at tiyakin na hindi ito maaabuso, lalo na sa panahon ng krisis kung kailan umaasa ang maraming Pilipino sa ayuda mula sa gobyerno.
Transports coops, umaasa na sabay ang fuel subsidy at fare hike
Umaasa pa rin ang mga transport cooperatives sa Western Visayas na sabay na ipatupad ng pamahalaan ang pagbibigay ng fuel subsidy at ang hinihiling na dagdag-pasahe upang maibsan ang epekto ng patuloy na pagtaas ng presyo ng langis.
Raymundo Parcon, Chairman ng Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, sinabi nito na patuloy na bumibigat ang kanilang operasyon dahil sa mataas na gastusin sa krudo, maintenance, at iba pang pangangailangan sa pamamasada.
Dahil dito, iginiit nila na hindi sapat ang isa lamang sa dalawang hakbang upang matulungan ang sektor.
Giit ni Parcon, kung ipatutupad lamang ang fare hike nang walang fuel subsidy, maaaring mabawasan ang bilang ng mga pasahero dahil sa dagdag gastos sa pamasahe.
Sa kabilang banda, kung subsidy lamang ang ipagkakaloob, hindi pa rin umano nito lubusang matutugunan ang pangmatagalang pangangailangan ng mga tsuper at operator.
Dagdag pa nila, mahalagang mapanatili ang balanse sa pagitan ng kapakanan ng mga mananakay at ng transport sector upang hindi maapektuhan ang araw-araw na biyahe ng publiko.
Sa kasalukuyan, hinihintay pa ng mga transport group ang magiging desisyon ng pamahalaan kaugnay sa kanilang panawagan, lalo na sa gitna ng patuloy na paggalaw ng presyo ng produktong petrolyo sa pandaigdigang merkado.
Umaasa ang mga transport cooperatives na agad na tutugunan ng gobyerno ang kanilang hinaing upang matiyak ang tuloy-tuloy at abot-kayang serbisyo sa transportasyon sa Western Visayas.
Pollution Control Team, ginbisitahan ang ginpa-Bombo nga nagasupot nga waste water sa Laurea Subdivision
Ginbisitahan sang Pollution Control Team ang sitwasyon sang ginpa-Bombo nga nagasupot nga waste water sa Laurea Subdivision Zone 7 Buhang Jaro, Iloilo City.
Niel Ravena, head sang Iloilo City General Services Office, iya ginpahayag nga matapos ang ila initial findings sa lugar may ara sang patigayunon nga hearing buwas nga adlaw, Marso 25.
Ini agud ma-eksplikar sang tag-iya kun poso negro bala ini kag kun ano ang rason sang nagasupot nga tubig kun sa diin naga-usbong na ang baho kag delikado sa ikaayong lawas sang mga tawo nga naga-istar sa lugar.
Suno pa kay Ravena, dapat may mga tikang nga obrahon agud indi maapektuhan ang iban nga pumuluyo.
Ginpahayag man sini nga sa hearing nga matabo lantawon sang hearing officer kun ano ang violations sang tag-iya kag isa-isahon man sang mga ini ang problema agud matagaan sang solusyon.
Dugang pa sini nga magapirma sang commitment ang ginreklamo kun ano bala ang dapat obrahon kag ipa-notarize ini.
Nahibaluan nga ini nga problema ang halin pa sang 2024 apang padayon sa gihapon nga naga-perwisyo sa mga pumuluyo sa lugar.
Suno pa kay Ravena nga ila pagatagaan sang solusyon ang ini nga problema agud indi na makapanghalit sa ikaayong lawas sang mga apektado.
Pila ka mga transport cooperative nga nagpatigayun sang transport holiday kahapon nga adlaw sang Lunes, nagalaum nga nabatian na sang gobyerno ang ila nga kawsa
Nagalaum ang pila ka mga transport cooperative nga nagpatigayun sang transport holiday kahapon nga adlaw sang Lunes, nga nabatian na sang gobyerno ang ila nga kawsa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Western Visayas Transport Cooperative (WVTC) Chairman Reymundo “Boyet” Parcon, iya ginpahayag nga dako ang ila nga pagsalig sa karun, nga mapatuman na ang fare hike sa tagsa ka mga Public Utility Vehicles (PUVs), agud makapiyan-piyan sa ila gastos sa matag-adlaw nga pagbyahe, ilabi na subong nga nagataas ang presyo sang gatong.
Dugang pa ni Parcon nga ila gid nahangpan ang wala pag-upod sang pila ka mga kooperatiba sa ila nga transport strike, bangud man sa pigado nga sitwasyon sang tagsa ka mga PUV drivers subong nga tyempo.
Ginapaabot man sang mga transport cooperatives nga mahatag na sa ila sa masunod nga semana ang ayuda nga gin-promisa sa ila sang gobyerno.
Nagresponde sa insidente sa Poblacion A, Duenas, Iloilo, nagapati nga si Marigold Jamelo ang target sang shooting insident
Nakibot na lang ang tag-iya sang salakyan nga ginpaarakan sang tiro sa Poblacion A, Duenas, Iloilo nga upod sa nagsakay si Marigold Jamelo sa pick-up nga ginpa-drive sini sa iya mekaniko nga si Wilber Auditor.
Ini bangud sang pagkuha sini sa ila balay ang sakay lamang sini amo si Wilbert kag helper sini nga si Gerry Pampag.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Ann, tag-iya sang salakyan, iya ginpahayag nga ginhulam ni Wilbert nga mekaniko sini ang salakyan agud nga i-drive test kag ipakay-o ang aircon.
Suno pa sa iya nga nakibot na lang ini sang nagpanawag si Wilbert sa iya nga gintiro ang salakyan sini.
Ginpahayag man sini nga amo sini ang una nga bes nga natabo ang nasambit nga insidente kag nadalahig ang iya salakyan.
Ginpanginwala naman sini nga siya ang target sang pagpangtiro bangud suno pa sa iya nga wala man ini sang kontra kag ginagamit pa sini ang salakyan nga magkadto sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar sa Iloilo.
Samtang, nagapati naman ang isa sa nagresponde sa insidente nga si Alyas Ronie nga ang target sang nasambit nga shooting insident amo ang babayi nga si Marigold Jamelo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, iya ginpahayag nga sunod-sunod nga lupok sang pusil ang ila nabatian sa lugar kag sang pagkadto na nila sa ginluntaran sang insidente, ato na kag ila nasaksihan nga nagadunglay na lang ang ulo sang biktima nga si Marigold kag wala na ini sang kabuhi.
Suno pa sa iya nga nakaagom lamang sang gamay nga pilas ang kaupdanan ni Jamelo.
Ginpahayag man ni Alyas Ronnie nga bangud sa pagka-abriya sang salakyan, nagpundo anay ang mga ini sa talyer, wala naman naglaom ang mga biktima nga may magdulog nga pula nga awto malapit sa ila nahamtangan kag paulanan ang mga ini sang tiro.
Dugang pa ni Alyas Ronie nga kun ang target kuntani sang suspek ang iban pa nga sakay sang salakyan wala tani ginpatam-an sang luthang ang babayi nga si Marigold.
Nahibaluan nga na-rekober sa lugar ang 23 ka mga empty shells nga ginapatihan bala sang M16.
Dugang pa diri, nadala man sa naigo nga pagpangtiro ang tag-iya sang talyer kun sa diin natabo ang insidente kag sa karon upod kay Wilbert kag Gerry ginalapatan na sang pagbulog sa ospital.
Punong Barangay sang San Isidro, nagpahayag nga madamo ang nagakadto sa ila barangay sa tunga sang kagab-ihun
Ginkumpirma ni Punong Barangay Felicitas Hortillosa sang Barangay San Isidro, La Paz, nga madamo sang makaduluda nga mga tawo nga nagapadulong sa ila barangay kun kaagahun nga possible gid nga may mga transakyon nahanungod sa iligal nga mga droga.
Ini kasunod sang nagluntad nga stabbing incident sang nagligad nga Marso 21, 22026, nga gintunaan sang kamatayon sang apat ka mga indibdiwal matapos nga nag-inaway nahanungod sa illegal drugs.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Hortillosa, iya ginpahayag nga naga-monitor gid ang ila barangay kun kaagahun bangud madamo ang nagakadto sa ila lugar kag halos indi man nila residente ang mga ini.
Suno sa iya, ginreport na nila ini sa mga kapulisan kun sa diin may mga nadakpan na nga mga durugista.
Gin-ako man sang Punong Barangay nga daw kaangay nga nangin ‘trend’ na ang transakyon sang droga sa ila nga barangay.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Benjie Legada, Kagawad sang Barangay San Isidro, La Paz, iya ginpahayag nga anay tokhang surrenderee ang isa sa katapo sang pamilya Muya nga si Tyron Muya nga amo ang isa sa apat ka mga ginbawian sang kabuhi sa nagluntad nga sang Marso 21, 2026.
Suno man sa iya nga isa sa mga napatay man sa insidente nga si Alyas Karding sang pamilya Provido ang kilala nga masami nga nagamaoy kun makainom rason nga nagpangayo naman ang iloy sini nga dakpon nalang ini kag presohon agud nga indi naman makahalit sa iban.
Ginpakigbahin man ni Legada nga sa subong, yara sa gihapon sa ospital ang duha ka mga involved sa stabbing incident nga amo sanday JM kag Glinmark nga untod ni Tyron.
4 ka indibidwal, patay samtang 2 naman ang pilason matapos ang stabbing incident sa Zone 5 Brgy.
San Isidro, La Paz, Iloilo City; illegal nga droga, posible rason sang krimen
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang apat ka indibidwal samtang duha naman ang pilason matapos ang stabbing incident nga natabo pasado las-10 sang gab-i sa bahin sang Zone 5 Brgy.
San Isidro, La Paz, Iloilo City sang gintalikdan nga Marso 21.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay John Rey Himatay, tanod sa amo nga barangay, iya ginpahayag nga posible nag-ugat ang amo nga insidente bangud sa ginaalegar paghusayay sa barangay sang duha ka pamilya nga pamilya Muya kag pamilya Provido, angot sa kuryente.
Dugang pa sini nga tatlo ang ginbawian sang kabuhi sa pamilya Provido nga sanday Johnny Sr., Johnny Jr.
kag Joven Provido, samtang isa naman ang napatay sa pamilya Muya nga ginkilala kay Tyron kag duha ka pilason nga sanday Gilbert kag Gilmark nga padayon nga ginabulong sa hospital.
Sa separado naman nga interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Virginia Provido, iloy sang tatlo ka napatay nga katapo sang pamilya Provido, positibo sini nga ginkumpirma nga kwarta nga inugbakal sang shabu ang gintunaan sang pagbun-anay sang katapo sang iya pamilya batok sa pamilya Muya.
Dugang pa sini nga ulihi na sini nahibaluan nga naga-inom-inom ang iya bana kag duha ka anak sa ila nga sala kag ginpahayag nga nagwa ang iya anak nga si Johnny Provido Jr.
agud magpadulong sa puluy-an sang pamilya Muya para bawion sini ang kwarta nga inugbakal sang shabu nga nagabalor sang P1,500 bangud wala man mahatag ang item sa iya.
Dugang pa sang natungdan nga ang tuyo ni Johnny Jr.
amo ang partner sang utod nga babaye sang mag-ulutod nga Muya bangud ginapahayag nga amo ini ang nagabaligya sang illegal nga droga.
Provido nga nagagamit sang illegal nga droga ang anak sini nga si Johnny Jr.
kag ginasaway man niya ini apang wala ini nagapati sa iya.
Ceres buses, gintugutan nga magbyahe sa sulod sang Iloilo City subong nga Lunes
Magabyahe sa Iloilo City subong nga adlaw, Marso 23, ang bus units sang Vallacar Transit Inc.
kadungan sang pagpatigayon sang mga transport cooperatives sang transport holiday.
Ini matapos gin-aprubahan sang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) ang special permit.
Yari ang apat ka mga ruta kun sa diin magabyahe ang Ceres Liner buses subong nga adlaw:
Gin-athag man sang regulatory board nga indi libre ang ila nga pagbyahe kag magasunod sila sa standard fare matrix.
Sa post sang LTFRB, ang standard fare sa nauna nga singko kilometros amo ang P13 para sa regular commuters, kag P10.50 naman para sa PWDs, estudyante, kag senior citizens.#
City Government, may ‘Libre Sakay’ subong nga may transport holiday
Naghatag ang Iloilo City Government sang “Libre Sakay” kadungan sang transport holiday sang transport cooperatives sa syudad subong nga adlaw, Marso 23.
Suno kay Mayor Raisa Treñas, gamiton ang government vehicles kag ang service vehicles halin sa tatlo ka major jump-off points agud nga mabuligan ang commuters sa syudad.
Ini amo ang Arevalo Plaza, Mandurriao Plaza, kag Jaro Plaza, kag pakadto kag pabalik sa Plaza Libertad.
Ang mga salakyan sang gobyerno magahulat sa designated areas alas-6:00 sang aga, kag magabiyahe ini kun mapuno na padulong sa ila tagsa ka ruta, kag mabalik dayon sa ila starting points agud mas madamo pa gid nga pasahero ang maserbisyuhan.
Suno sa alkalde, padayon ini nga operasyon tubtob alas-10:00 sang aga.
Sa hapon, magaresume ang byahe halin naman sa Plaza Libertad, pakadto sa ila tagsa ka ruta, magasugod alas-4:00 sang hapon tubtob alas-8:00 sang gab-i.
Gina-engganyo man sang alkalde ang mga may pribado nga salakyan nga mag-carpooling agud makahatag sang bulig sa iban nga naga-commute.
Ginapanawagan man sang alkalde sa tanan nga magkooperar kag magplano sang ila byahe samtang ginahimo sang City Government ang tanan nga tikang agud maserbisyuhan ang kadam-an.
Transport cooperatives sa Iloilo City, nag-untat sa pagbyahe subong nga Lunes
Patigayunon subong nga adlaw, Marso 23, ang transport holiday ukon ang untat byahe sang mga transport cooperatives diri sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Ini ang kasunod sang nagatimbuok nga presyo sang gatong, apang ginapahayag nga kulang ukon wala gid sang suporta sang gobyerno nga nahatag sa sector sang transportasyon.
(WVATCCI), iya ginpahayag nga samtang nagasaka ang presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo, daw indi man halos makabulig ang ginpasalig sang gobyerno nga ihatag nga P5,000 fuel subsidy.
Suno sa iya, makapiyan-piyan na kun tani sa mga drivers ang dugang nga dos pesos, apang ginbawi pa ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Ginpakigbahin pa ni Alcarde nga indi lang ini ang nangin pasalig sang gobyerno, bangud sang nagligad nga Nobyembre, nakatalana nga magahatag man kun tani ang Department of Transportation (DOTr) kag Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) sang equity subsidy, apang wala man ini magtupa tubtob subong.
Dugang pa niya, daw indi na sila halos makatibawas sa paghatag sang sweldo sa ila nga mga drivers kag iban pa nga galastuson bangud wala man sang epektibo nga solusyon ang ginapatuman sa pungsod.
Talalupangdon nga ini nga protesta nga una nga himuon sang transport cooperatives sa syudad sang Iloilo halin sang nagsuporta sila sa Public Utility Vehicle (PUV) Modernization Program.
Raymundo “Boyet” Parcon, chairman sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative (WVTC), gintawtawan lang sila sang pasalig nga may subsidiya, apang tubtub subong, bisan tatlo ka semana na ang gyera sa Middle East, wala gihapon sang ayuda nga nabaton ang sektor sang transportasyon halin sa gobyerno.
“Ang number one nga ginapangayo naton amo ni ang pagpasaka sang plete.
Kun mag-normal na, ibalik man naton sa normal ang pletehan.
Sa subong, importante lang sa tanan nga may suporta lang o kapital o pang-sapin-sapin man sa amon nga para man sa pagserbisyo sa mga pumuluyo kag commuters para nga maka-sustain man kami sa sige-sige nga saka sang diesel,” suno kay Parcon.
Nakahibalo man ini nga madamo ang maapektuhan kun indi sila magbyahe, apang nagapanindugan siya nga paagi ini agud nga pamatian sila sang gobyerno.
“[Kami sa WVTC], nagapamyerdehan kami sang P100,000 a day.
Diin kami makuha sina kun indi kami mag-pressure sa gobyerno nga dapat pamatian kami?
Kun transport kami, once mag-untat kami byahe, kadamo sang maapektuhan nga mga pasahero,” pahayag pa ni Parcon.
Nagdugang man ini nga preparado man sila sa posible nga show cause order ukon kun ano ang mangin akto sang gobyerno sa ila himuon nga transport holiday.
“Ini nga kawsa indi lang ni basta-basta.
Gutom na ang mga operators kag drivers subong.
Updan namon ini nga kawsa subong, wala na kami subong nakulbaan bisan i-cancel ukon i-revoke ang amon prangkisa,” dugang niya.#
Meliton Oso, nagapanawagan sang pagbinuligay sang gobyerno kag pumuluyo sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga pagsaka sang gatong
Meliton Oso, Director sang Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center sang pagbinuligay sang gobyerno kag pumuluyo sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo kag amo man sang bugas.
Oso, iya ginpahayag nga mabatyagan na sa karon ang kasakit sang pagmahal sang mga balaklon bangud sa pagpataas sang mga gasolinahan sang mga gatong nga suno pa sa iya nga old stock pa ang mga ini.
Ginpunto man ni Oso nga ang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong bunga sang “kadalok” sang iban nga nagapamintaha.
Suno sa iya, may obligasyon ang gobyerno nga i-regulate ang presyo sini kag nagapanawagan ini sa pagrepaso ukon pagbasura sang Oil Deregulation Law.
Gindugang man ni Oso nga dapat pamatian ang ginasinggitan sang mga driver nga kuhaon ang excise tax sa produktong petrolyo.
Nagapanawagan man ini sa publiko nga buylugan ang patigayunon nga transport strike buwas nga adlaw sang Lunes, Marso 23 bilang porma sang protesta.
Nagpahanumdum man ini sa publiko nga magbinuligay ang tagsa-tagsa, ilabi na ang mga kauturan nga naga-antos sa sini nga kabudlayan.
Mga iloy nagikan sa San Enrique, Iloilo, ginpakigbahin ang ila nga sekreto bilang isa ka dungganon nga nanay sa ila mga kabataan
Ginpun-an sang pag-intindi, maayo nga pamatasan kag pagpalangga sang duha ka mga iloy nga taga- San Enrique, Iloilo ang ila puluy-an rason nga nangin maayo ang pagpadako sang mga ini sa ila nga mga kabataan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Josephine Paborada, iloy sang 13 ka kabataan iya ginpahayag nga wala ginkalimtan sang iya mga kabataan ang pamatasan nga ila natun-an sa ila puluy-an bangud nagbunga ini sang maayo nga resulta.
Iya man ginpahayag nga sa tyempo sa karon tuman ka importante ang pagpa-eskwela sa mga kabataan agud maagom sang mga ini ang mayo nga buwas damlag.
Bilang isa ka kagawad sang una suno pa sa iya nga importante nga mangin inspirasyon sa iban indi lamang sa kaugalingon sini nga mga kabataan kundi pati man sa komunidad.
Samtang, suno naman kay Melinda Aneversario, iloy sang walo ka mga kabataan, iya ginpahayag nga ginpadako sini ang iya mga kabataan nga may disiplina kag may ara sang husto nga paminatasan.
Ginpunto man sini nga apisar indi perpekto ang isa ka pamilya, dapat mangin ehemplo gihapon ang ginikanan sa iya mga kabataan nga unahon permi ang pamilya.
Nagpabutyag man ini sang iya pangabay sa gobyerno nga maghatag sang dugang nga mga programa sa pangabuhian ukon livelihood para sa kababainhan agud mangin malapad pa ang ila mga kinamatarong.
Suno sa iya, importante nga may suporta ang gobyerno agud mapasangkad ang papel sang kababainhan sa pamilya kag komunidad.
Maria Katarina Elia Tanaleon, naghakot sang madamo nga medalya sa WVRAA Meet 2026
Naghakot sang madamo nga medalya ang bugal sang Iloilo City nga si Maria Katarina Elia Gange Tanaleon sa Rhythmic Gymnastics sa Western Visayas Regional Athletic Association Meet 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa 9-anyos nga si Tanaleon, iya ginpahayag nga bangud sa bulig sang iya ginikanan kag mga coaches nangin possible para sa iya nga madala ang kadalag-an para sa Iloilo.
Suno pa sa iya nga apisar pa nagkalain-lain ang mga coaches nga naghanas sa iya gin-gamit gid sini ang mga laygay kag mga natun-an sini sa ila agud mangin kampeon sa nasambit nga kompetisyon.
Bangud sa iya nga paghimakas, nadala sini pauli ang bulawan nga medalya sa Rope Routine kag Ball Routine amo man sa Team and Individual All-Around.
Dugang pa diri, nakabaton man ini sang silver medal para sa Hoop Routine kag bronze medal naman sa Freehand Routine.
Nahibaluan nga si Tanaleon ang bugal man sang Guimaras, proud Atenean kag ang magarepresentar sang Western Visayas sa Palarong Pambansa 2026 nga pagahiwaton sa Agusan del Sur.
11 ka mga transport cooperatives sa Western Visayas, indi magabiyahe buwas nga adlaw Lunes, Marso 23
Sigurado na nga indi magbiyahe buwas nga adlaw Lunes, Marso 23 ang masobra 400 ka public utility vehicles nga sakop sang 11 ka mga transport cooperatives sa Western Visayas bangod sa ila patigayunon nga transport strike.
(WVATCC), iya ginphayag nga mabug-at man sa ila buot ang ila patigayunon nga transport strike apang kinahanglan nila ini nga himuon.
Lakip sa mga kooperatiba nga maga-upod amo ang WVTC (Western Visayas Transport Cooperative), CITSCO (City Iloilo Transport Service Cooperative), kag ICAODTC (Iloilo City Alliance of Operators and Drivers Transport Cooperative) nga naga-operate sa nagkalain-lain nga distrito sa Iloilo.
Ginpahayag man sang grupo nga apisar may ara sang binilyon nga budget ang gobyerno para sa mga proyekto sa imprastruktura, apang wala gid sila natutukan ukon nahatagan man lang sang importansya direkta sa sector sang transportasyon nga suno pa sa ila mas madamo kuntani nga pumuluyo ang mabuligan.
Nagapanawagan man ang mga ini nga kuntani mahatagan man sila sang igtalupangod bangud kaangay sang iban nabudlayan man sila sa ila pagakuhaan sang ila pangabuhian ilabi na sa subong nga ginapangatubang nga kabudlayan sa ila sector.
Dalagko nga pa-premyo, nag-ulan sa ikaduha nga barangay draw sang “Buena Mano Salvo!
Nagpaulan sang dalagko nga mga pa-premyo kag nagdul-ong sang kasadya ang ikaduha nga barangay draw sang “Buena Mano Salvo!
Ginpatigayon ini sa Barangay South Baluarte, Molo Iloilo City kahapon sang hapon.
Mary Joy Agraviador, 33, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina nga Mr.
Mayrel Apostol, 33, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina nga Mr.
Greza Albacaro, 57, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina kaangay sang Mr.
Rosalie Sencil, 37, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina kaangay sang Mr.
Gena De los Reyes, 41, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina kaangay sang Mr.
Marilyn Astrologo, 44, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina kaangay sang Mr.
Rubymae Agustin, 42, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina nga Chippy kag Mr.
Ramir Nava, 69, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina nga Chippy kag Mr.
Lucia Nieles, 71, naggamit sang proof of purchase nga Universal Robina nga Mr.
Ka-Bombo, bantayi naman sa masunod nga semana kun sa diin magapadulong ang team sang Bombo Radyo kag Star FM agud nga magdala naman sang kasadya kag dalagko nga cash prizes.
Magpadayon lang sa paghulog sang imo entries sa “Buena Mano Salvo!
Year 20 Promo: Araw-araw Balde-baldeng Pa-premyo na, May Cash pa!”!
BFP Iloilo, wala ginadula ang iban pa nga posibilidad nga ginhalinan sang sunog nga nagluntad sa Brgy.
Wala ginadula sang Bureau of Fire Protection Iloilo ang iban pa nga posibilidad nga ginhalinan sang sunog nga nagluntad sa Brgy.
Ini matapos nga nagwa sa initial nga imbestigasyon nga nag-umpisa ang kalayo sa balay ni Leo Estañol.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay SFO1 Den Mark B.
Macoco, Acting Chief Investigation and Intellegence Unit, Iloilo City Fire Station, iya ginpahayag nga nakuhaan na nila sang iya side si Estañol apang wala nila ginadula ang iban pa nga ginhalinan sang nasambit nga sunog.
Suno kay Macoco nga ila na napadala sa National Office ang ila nga iban pa nga example nga nakuha kag subject for laboratory testing pa ini.
Ginpahayag pa ni Macoco nga ginroll-out naman nila ang posibilidad nga electrical in nature ang ginhalinan sang sunog bangud ang balay indi man energize.
Suno pa sa iya nga bangud human sa mga light materials ang mga balay sa lugar kag nagatinupaday pa ang mga ini madali nga naglapta ang kalayo.
Dugang pa niya nga naglab-ot na sa 40 ang totally damage, apat ang partially damage kun sa diin nagabalor ini sang masobra 205, 000 pesos.
Presyo sang bugas sa merkado, ginalauman nga magataas man kasunod sang nagapadayon nga pagtaas sang gatong
Ginalauman nga magataas man ang pesyo sa bugas sa mercado kasunod sa nagapadayon nga pagtaas sang mga produktong petrolyo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Melvi Patingan, vendor sang bugas sa Iloilo Central Market, iya ginpahayag nga amat-amat na nga mabatyagan ang pagtaas sang presyo sang bugas.
Suno kay Patingan, may pagtaas subong sang duha ka pesos kada kilo sang bugas pareho sang Local Rice kun sa diin naglab-ot na ini sa P44 subong kun ikumpara sa P42 sang nagligad.
Pahayag niya, ang ila ginabaligya sa karun amo ang mga supply nga ila ginbakal pa sang naligad nga semana rason nga indi pa tama ka mabatyagan ang pagtaas sang presyo sang bugas.
Apang, ginpahayag niya nga dako pa gid ang posibilidad sang pagtaas sang presyo sa masunod bangud nga mismo supplier nagpahayag sang dugang sang presyo kun sa diin posible nga magasaka na sa 50 pesos per 25 kilogram ang bugas.
Ginpahayag niya, magapataas man sila sang presyo sa merkado bangud nga apektado man sila nga mga manug baligya sa global crisis nga ginaatubang sang tanan.
Manuel kay Marcos: ‘Normal pa bala nga nag-doble ang presyo sang gatong?’
Raoul Manuel ang pahayag ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Kasunod ini sang pahayag sang presidente nga diri sa Pilipinas, normal man ang presyuhanay kag ginasigurado sang gobyerno suno sa iya nga maayo ang suplay sang pagkaon, bugas, kag tanan nga basic goods.
Suno naman sa former representative nga tumandok sang Iloilo, amo ini ang rason kun ngaa dapat nga magpadayon nga maghulag ang pumuluyo sa baylo nga maghipus-hipos lang kag pabay-an lang ang gobyerno kun ano ang obrahon.
“Normal pa bala nga nag-doble ang presyo sang gatong?
Te ang pamangkot naton, ano ni ya ang aton nga gobyerno man?
Nagapabungol-bungol lang bala ini, ukon daw kadamol lang bala sang iya nga guya para maghambal pa nga normal ang tanan?,” suno sa anay kongresista.
Ginpahayag sini nga naandan na lang sang gobyerno nga protektahan ang interes sang dalagku nga mga kumpaniya lakip na ang oil companies.
Ginpanawagan ni Manuel sa publiko nga dapat saligan ang paghugpong sang isa kag isa kag pagbato sa kinamatarong sang mga driver, operator, kag commuter sa tunga sang ginapangatubang subong nga krisis.
Nahibaluan nga ginhiwat ang ikaduha nga adlaw sang transport strike subong nga adlaw, Marso 20, malapit sa University of the Philippines Visayas sa Iloilo City nga gin-updan sang mga driver, operator, kag nagkalain-lain nga mga sector.
‘Kaluoy ang amon pamilya sini’ —Driver sang jeep nga nagapanghakroy sa pagmahal sang krudo
Nagalibog ang ulo sang mga jeepney driver sa Iloilo City kun ano na lang ang ila dal-on pauli nga kuwarta sa ila tagsa ka pamilya ilabi na nga halos ibakal na lang sang krudo ang makit-an nila sa isa ka adlaw nga byahe.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Russel Zamora, iya ginpahayag nga P450 pa ang iya ginabayaran sa gina-arkila sini nga traditional jeep.
“Ano na lang ang para sa amon nga pamilya?
Pangabay man namon sa gobyerno nga ila man depensahan ang pagsinaka sang presyo sang krudo.
Kaluluoy kami tanan nga nagapangabuhi sa dalanon bilang driver,” suno sa iya.
Sa P850 sini nga limpyo, P500 ang ginatabon sini sa krudo gani P350 na lang gid ang madala sini pauli.
Suno kay Zamora, ginaantisipar na sini nga mas maga-gamay pa gid ang iya limpyo bangud madugangan pa gid sang P14 ang presyo sang kada litro sang krudo sa masunod nga semana.
Tubtub subong suno sa iya, wala pa ini sang nabatian nga may nakabaton na sang ayuda.
2018 sang nag-umpisa siya sa pagbyahe sang jeep diri sa syudad kag ini ang una nga bes suno sa iya nga na-eksperyensya nila ang kapuraot sang byahe nga resulta sang nagatimbuok nga presyo sang gatong.
“Kun gapamati ang tagdumalahan sang gobyerno, tani batyagon man nila kami nga mga driver, kay kaluluoy ang amon pamilya sini,” suno sa driver.
“Waay pa kami kabati nga may ayuda diri sa Iloilo nga may nakakuha kay ipaagi pa kuno sa coop.”
Kun basehan ang oil industry estimates, posible nga magdangat na sa P130 ang presyo sang diesel sa masunod nga semana, samtang magalapaw naman sa P100 ang kada litro sang gasolina bangud sang panibag-o nga oil price hike nga resulta sang kinagamo sa Middle East.#
Transport groups sa Iloilo City, nagsugtanay sang transport holiday sa Lunes, Marso 23
Gindesisyunan sang mayorya sang transport cooperatives sa syudad sang Iloilo nga mag-updanay sa pagpatigayon sang transport holiday sa Lunes, Marso 23.
Raymundo “Boyet” Parcon, chairman sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative (WVTC), kasunod sang ila pagpatigayon sang pagsinapol subong nga adlaw.
“Majority gid, kag basi tanan nga ruta, by Monday, wala sang may ma-byahe, upod sa aton nga traditional nga mga jeep nga mauntat man sa byahe, kay subong kawsa na ni namon tanan,” suno kay Parcon.
Sa bahin sang WVTC, nagabyahe ang modernized units sini sa apat ka mga ruta sa syudad nga amo ang Tagbak Terminal, Mohon Terminal, Diversion Highway, kag Jaro CPU.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Parcon, iya ginpahayag nga padayon pa ang ila pagpanawag sa dugang nga mga grupo agud mag-upod sa sini nga kawsa.
Pahayag sini, pila ka semana na sila nga nagahipos apang wala man sang gihapon sang mehura bangud wala gihapon sang suporta nga nagatupa kag gin-suspende man ang ila ginahingyo nga saka sa plete.
Nauna na nga ginpahayag ni Parcon nga lab-ot na sa P100,000 ang ginapamyerdehan sang WVTC kada adlaw bangud sang pagtimbuok sa presyo sang gatong.
Kun basehan ang oil industry estimates, posible nga magdangat na sa P130 ang presyo sang diesel sa masunod nga semana, samtang magalapaw naman sa P100 ang kada litro sang gasolina bangud sang panibag-o nga oil price hike.
Ipanawagan sang transport cooperatives ang pagpasaka sang plete kadungan sang transport holiday.
Suno kay Parcon, ang fare increase amo ang makabulig sa ila bilang “pang-sapin-sapin” lang samtang tuman ka taas ang presyo sang diesel.
Ginpahayag sini nga gintawtawan lang sila sang pasalig nga may subsidiya, apang tubtub subong, bisan tatlo ka semana na ang gyera sa Middle East, wala gihapon sang ayuda nga nabaton halin sa gobyerno.
“Indi gid namon kaya kag bisan ang pagbakal sang diesel kay tama gid ka mahal,” pahayag sini.
Updan namon ini nga kawsa subong, wala na kami subong nakulbaan bisan i-cancel ukon i-revoke ang amon prangkisa,” dugang niya.
Transport group sa Iloilo City, 50% na lang sang units ang ginapabyahe subong
Gin-umpisahan na sang transport cooperative sa Western Visayas ang 50% lang nga pagpabyahe sang ila nga mga unit bangud sang epekto sang pagtimbuok sang presyo sang gatong.
Raymundo “Boyet” Parcon, chairman sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, iya ginpahayag nga kun indi pa gid mag-ayo ang sitwasyon, mapilitan sila nga 30% na lamang sa mga unit ang maga-byahe sa mga karsada sa masunod nga semana.
Suno kay Parcon, kun wala pa gid sang ayuda nga mabaton, posible nga maabot gid sa punto nga tag-lima na lamang ka unit halin sa ila kooperatiba ang magabyahe sa kada ruta.
“Kun mag-sige-sige pa gid ini kag wala pa gid sang ayuda ang aton gobyerno, may tendency ini nga kada ruta namon, lima ka unit na lang ang ipa-byahe,” suno kay Parcon.
Magasapol man ang alyansa kaangot sa posible nga transport holiday kag kun ano ang ila himuon kun wala gihapon sang tupa ang mga promisa sang gobyerno kaangot sa subsidiya sa tunga sang nagapanglakaak nga presyo sang langis.
Pahayag pa ni Parcon, wala pa sila sang may nabaton nga ayuda halin sa Department of Transportation (DOTr).
Naga-reklamo ini bangud nagalain-lain ang mga requirements kaangay sang G-Cash account nga ginapangayo naman sa mga driver nga indi man nila mahatag bangud wala man sila sang account.
“Ang kinahanglan tani namon immediate action gid bala,” suno kay Parcon.
“Ang iban gani naton nga mga driver nagabitbit na sang martilyo kag lagari.
Gasiling sila nga may kay-uhon nga balay kag mauntat anay byahe kay may P700 pa sila nga kita kag wala pa buhin.”
Una na nga ginpahayag sang grupo nga nagalab-ot sa P100,000 ang ila mapierde sa kada adlaw bangud sa problema sa gatong.
Ginakibang sila suno kay Parcon bangud may loan pa sila sa bangko kag tuman ka kulang ang ila kita agud nga maswelduhan ang ila mga driver kag konduktor.
Nahibaluan nga may 95 units sang modernized jeepneys ang WVTC nga naga-operate diri sa syudad.
“Amo na gani nga kun ang subsidya sang gobyerno nagtupa, bisan gamay lang tani na, makabulig gid tani,” pahayag pa ni Parcon.
Una na nga gin-anunsyo sang DOTr nga may fare increase nga ipatuman kuntani sang Huwebes kun sa diin piso ang isaka sa traditional jeep samtang dos pesos naman sa modernized units, apang ginbawi ini ni President Bongbong Marcos.
“Nadulaan na kami sang pag-asa kag salig sa gobyerno bangud sang nagakatabo subong.
Kay daw wala gid sang fixed nga ginahambal ang gobyerno sa ginahambal nila.
Daw duso-butong, ginpasaka niyo sa kapayas kag gintapas, te karon, kami ang kaluluoy diri sa dalom,” dugang ni Parcon.#
400 ka tawo patay sa air strike sang Pakistan sa Afghanistan
Indi magnubo sa 400 ka tawo ang patay kag 250 ang pilason sa air strike sang Pakistan sa isa ka drug users rehabilitation hospital sa Kabul, Afghanistan.
Suno kay Hamdullah Fitrat, deputy spokesman sang Taliban, gin-target sang Pakistan ang Omid 2,000-bed drug rehabilitation hospital.
Ginpanginwala naman sang Pakistan nga alegasyon sang Afghanistan kag gin-athag nga ang ila gin-target lamang amo ang military installations kag terrorist support infrastructure.
WVTC, gintawag nga wala tupa ang P2 nga saka sang plete sa modernized jeepneys bangud kulang ini
Ginkadismaya sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative ang gindugang nga P2 nga plete para sa mga mini bus sang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raymundo ”Boyet” Parcon, Chairperson sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ka kulang para sa ila nga mga transport cooperative ang ini nga pagdugang sang plete.
Suno pa sa iya nga doble ang ginsaka sang gatong nga ila ginatughong sa ila mga modernized jeepney kag nagapangabay sila nga kuntani P7 ang idugang nga plete, samtang P6.50 centavos naman para sa mga traditional jeepney.
Nagaplano man ang ila grupo nga magapatigayon sila sang pagpaalinton sa Department of Transportation agud mapamatian man ang ila panawagan nga taasan pa ang plete.
Suno pa sa iya nga kun indi pag-aprubahan sang DOTr ang ila nga hingyo, mapilitan gid sila nga i-porsyento na lang ang pagbyahe sa syudad.
Dugang pa ni Parcon nga gusto man kuntani sang mga drivers nga magserbisyo sa pumuluyo apang nabudlayan gid sila kag nagapangayo man sila sang bulig halin sa gobyerno.
Lalaki nga napatay matapos nalapakan sang wing van, indi na magpasaka sang kaso ang pamilya batok sa suspek
Ka-Bombo, sensitibo ang kaundan sang masunod nga balita…
Bag-o lang tapos dul-ong sang iya bata sa eskwelahan ang biktima nga nawasak ang ulo kahapon sang aga matapos nalapakan sang isa ka Wing Van sa dalan nga sakop sang Brgy.
Ang biktima ginkilala kay Stephen Jongco, 27 anyos kag isa ka laborer.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Joseph Poral sang Brgy.
Tacas, Jaro, Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga magapauli kuntani ang biktima sa ila balay sa Zone 4 Brgy.
Tacas, Jaro, sang nasag-idan sini ang isa ka motor rason nga natumba ini kag nagtupa sa idalom sang truck.
Suno sa traffic investigator medyo madasig ang pagpadalagan sang biktima rason nga natumba ini sa porsyon sang dalan kun sa diin suno kay PB Poral accident prone area.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang suspek nga nakabunggo-patay sa biktima ang nagapauli man sa iya barangay sa Tacas Jaro.
Sa karon, nadesisyunan sang pamilya nga indi na lang magpasaka sang kaso batok sa suspek apang kinahanglan sini nga buligan sa pagpalubong ang biktima amo man ang pagbayad sa nabilin nga balayran sa ospital.
Nagpahanumdum naman si Punong barangay Poral sa mga motorista nga nagalabay sa nasambit nga lugar nga maghinay-hinay gid agud indi na maliwan ang kaangay nga aksidente kun sa diin nag-utas gid ini sang kabuhi.
Taxi drivers nga nagabyahe sa syudad sang Iloilo, nagahingyo kay Mayor Treñas nga hatagan man sila sang fuel subsidy nga taga-probinsya
Nagahingyo ang pila ka mga taxi drivers nga nagabyahe diri sa syudad sang Iloilo kay Mayor Raisa Treñas nga hatagan man sila sang fuel subsidy nga taga-probinsya sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Roger Aquino, isa ka taxi driver, iya ginpahayag nga bangud sa mabudlay nga sitwasyon sa pagtaas sang gatong, wala na sila naga-roving.
Suno pa sa iya nga kun kaisa nagahulat na lang sila sang masobra tatlo ka oras antes sila makakita sang pasahero.
Ginpahayag man sini nga sang una makakita pa sila sang masobra 1,200 pesos apang subong nga mataas ang presyo sang gatong ang makuha na lang sini sa iya pagbyahe 500 pesos.
Nagpangabay man ini sa gobyerno nga kuntani mabuhinan lang ang presyo sang gatong kun indi man madugangan ang pagsaka sang plete para sa ila nga mga taxi drivers.
Dugang pa sini nga sa kadugayon na sini nga nagabyahe sa syudad sang Iloilo, kuntani hatagan man sila igtalupangod ni Mayor Treñas nga makabaton sang fuel subsidy bangud nagakinahanglan man sila sang bulig halin sa syudad.
DA Western Visayas, nagpasalig nga indi pa mabatyagan subong ang pagmahal sang mga nagapanguna nga mga balaklon sa merkado kadungan man sang nagatimbuok nga presyo sang produktong petrolyo
Nagpasalig ang Department of Agriculture (DA) Western Visayas (WV)nga indi pa mabatyagan sa karun nga mga tinion ang kamahal sang mga nagapanguna nga mga balaklon sa merkado kadungan man sang nagatimbuok nga presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maria Teresa Solis, Regional Technical Director for Operations and Extension, DA-WV, iya ginpahayag nga ang stock sa merkado sa karun ang gin-deliver pa sang nagliligad nga mga semana, rason nga indi pa mabatyagan ang pagsaka sang presyo sang mga balaklon sa merkado, ilabi na sa mga farm products pareho sang utan kag karne.
Ginpaathag man ni Solis nga kun ma-deliver na subong nga semana ang panibag-o nga stock, magasaka sang halos 10% tubtub 20% ang ginapaabot nga pagsaka sang mga balaklon sa merkado.
Nagpahanumdum man si Solis sa publiko nga magkinot sa paggamit sa gatong, amo man ang paggamit sang organic fertilizers sa mga mangunguma, agud indi ang mga ini matam-an sa gastos sa ila mga produkto.
Grupo sang “No To PUV Phaseout Coalition,” ginkadismaya ang dugang nga piso sa pagsaka sa plete sa mga jeep
Ginkadismaya sang grupo sang “No To PUV Phaseout Coalition” ang gindugang nga piso sa pagsaka sa plete sa depampasahero nga jeep.
Elmer Forro, lead convenor sang nasambit nga grupo, iya ginpahayag nga bangud sa mataas nga presyo sang gatong nga naglab-ot sa 110 pesos ang bili indi makaigo ang gindugang nga pagpataas sang ahaw piso sang sang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board.
Ginpahayag pa sini nga may ara sang papel ang gobyerno agud mahagan-hagan ini nga pagpataas sang presyo bangud ini nga mga gatong ang old stock na suno kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kag makaigo pa ini sa katapusan pa sang Abril.
Gindugang pa ni Forro nga kun naaprubahan na ang pagkakas sang excise tax, kuntani mabatyagan man sang mga tawo ang epekto sini sa idalom apang kaangay nga daw wala man sang pagbag-o.
Samtang, may yara naman naman sang patigayunon nga nationwide PEOPLE’S STRIKE (Welga ng Bayan) sa Marso 19–20, 2026 ang mga transport groups, consumers, workers, kag tanan nga naapektuhan nga sektor bilang pagpakita sang ila pagkondenar sa indi insakto nga nagakatabo subong.
P1 nga saka sa plete sa traditional jeep kag P2.00 sa modern jeepneys, ipatuman na umpisa sa Huwebes
Ginkumpirma ni Transportation Secretary Giovanni Lopez nga may P1.00 nga saka sa plete sa traditional jeepneys kag P2.00 naman para sa modern jeepneys.
Bangud sini, nagsaka na sa P14 ang minimum nga pamasahe sa tradisyonal nga jeep, samtang P17 naman para sa modernized units.
Pahayag sang Department of Transportation (DOTr), mangin epektibo ini nga adjustment umpisa sa Huwebes, Marso 19.
“Inaprubahan na po natin kagabi ang pagtaas ng pamasahe pagdating sa mga provincial buses, metro buses, P2P, kasama din po ang jeepneys, at airport taxis,” suno kay Lopez.
“Pagdating sa ating mga jeepney, ngayon po ang traditional jeepney natin ang pamasahe natin is P13.00.
May conditional increase pong kasama yan, yan ay ginawa na natin permanent at nagdagdag pa tayo ng P1.00.
Ginpatuman ini nga fare increase sa tunga sang nagapanglakaak nga presyo sang gatong bangud sang epekto sang giyera sa Middle East.
Nauna na nga gin-anunsyo sang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) ang fare increase sang Domingo, apang subong lang nga aga gin-anunsyo ang eksakto nga balor sang isaka.
Una naman nga ginmandu ni President Ferdinand ”Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
ang pag-release sang P5,000 cash assistance para sa public utility vehicle drivers agud nga mabuhinan ang palas-anon samtang mataas ang presyo sang gatong.
Iloilo City Government, ginaduso ang pagpatuman sang Market Day sa mga merkado sa syudad
Ginaduso sang Iloilo City Government nga magapatigayon sang Market Day sa kada merkado sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, Spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ini agud mahatagan sang oportunidad ang mga vendors kag mga bolantero halin sa Probinsya sang Iloilo nga makabagsak kag makabaligya sang ila mga produkto sa mga nagkalain-lain nga merkado sa Syudad.
Ginaproponer sang alkalde kag Local Economic Enterprise Office (LEEO) nga himuon ang adlaw sang Martes nga Market day para sa terminal Market.
Ang adlaw sang Miyerkules naman para sa La Paz Market.
Samtang, ang adlaw sang Huwebes ang Market Day sa Jaro Big Market kun sa diin naandan na nga schedule para sa pagpaninda sang mga pumuluyo.
Pagahatagan naman sang kahigayunan ang mga bulantero nagikan sa Probinsya sang Iloilo nga makabagsak kag makabaligya indi lang sa Iloilo Terminal Public Market kundi sa tanan nga merkado sa syudad.
Nagapadayon naman ang koordinasyon sa mga vendors kag nagkalain-lain nga mga market associations agud ma-finalize na ang nasambit nga inisyatibo.
LTO 6, posible i-revoke ang lisensya sang anay alkalde sang Calinog, Iloilo matapos nga ma-hit and run sini ang 19-anyos nga lalaki
Posible nga i-revoke sang Land Transportation Office (LTO) 6 ang licensya ni Former Mayor Badong Divinagracia sang Calinog, Iloilo matapos nga ma-hit and run sini ang 19-anyos nga lalaki nga gintunaan sang kamatayon sini.
Geduspan II, iya ginpahayag nga bisan wala pa nakabaton sang pormal nga reklamo ang ila opisina angut sa nasambit nga insidente, posible gihapon nga i-revoke ang licensya sang anay alkalde ilabi na nga malayo ang ginluntaran sang insidente kag kun sa diin ini nadakpan.
Geduspan, ang mga hit-and-run cases ginakabig nga negligence of obligation, bangod ginabayaan sang driver ang iya responsibilidad sa biktima.
Pahayag sini, bisan ano pa ang rason sang driver sa natabo nga vehicular accident kun makita nga may negligence sa pagmaneho, mahimo ini nga mangin basehan agud hatagan sang show cause order ang driver kag posible man nga ma-revoke ang iya driver’s license.
Dugang pa sang Director nga ang amo nga insidente nagapakita nga madamo pa gihapon nga mga driver ang kulang sa disiplina sa dalan, bisan may yara na sang mga layi nga ginapatuman ang gobyerno para sa road safety.
Mayor nga nakabunggo patay sa isa ka lalaki sa New Lucena, Iloilo, wala nadayon nga mapasakaan sang kaso
Nakagwa na sa prisohan si Former Calinog Mayor Salvador “Badong” Divinagracia nga naka-hit and run-patay sa 19-anyos nga lalaki sa banwa sang New Lucena sang gab-i sang Marso 15.
Ini matapos nga nagdesisyon ang pamilya nga indi na magpasaka sang kaso batuk sa anay nga alkalde.
John Rey Laru-an, hepe sang New Lucena Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga nagpirma kahapon sang hapon sang Affidavit of Desistance ang pamilya sang biktima rason nga nakagwa sa prisohan si Former Mayor Divinagracia.
Laru-an, ginpahayag sang pamilya nga bisan masakit sa ila ang natabo sa ila himata, indi na mabalik sini ang iya kabuhi bisan pa nga magpasaka sila sang kaso rason nga nagpirma na lang ang mga ini sang Affidavit of Desistance.
Laru-an, may yara naman sang agreement kag settlement sa tunga sang pamilya sang biktima kag sang anay alkalde kun sa diin nabatun na sang pamilya ang financial assistance halin sa anay alkalde.
Dugang pa sini, sa karon ginakabig na nga ‘cased close’ ang kaso bangud sa rason nga indi na magpasaka sang kaso ang pamilya sang biktima.
Ilongga maritime leader, gina-engganyo ang mga kababainhan nga magkuha sang career sa maritime industry
Gina-engganyo sang Ilongga maritime leader nga si Christel Marie Layson ang mga kababaihan nga magkuha sang career sa maritime industry.
Si Layson ang presidente sang Women in Maritime Philippines-Western Visayas Chapter, isa ka organisasyon nga nagapromote kag nagasuporta sa kababainhan sa maritime sector.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Layson, iya ginpahayag nga apisar nga naandan sang mga publiko nga ang trabaho sa maritime ang para lamang sa mga lalaki, masarangan man sang mga babaye nga sudlon ini nga trabaho.
Suno kay Layson, pamatuod diri ang iya journey nga ginsuguran niya sang 2024 sang nagsulod siya sa industriya kag subong, ginauyatan na niya ang posisyon bilang Terminal Operations Officer sang Philippine Ports Authority sa Lapuz, Iloilo City.
Suno sa iya, bunga ini sang iya disiplina, determinasyon, kag pagpati sa kaugalingon nga wala sang imposible para sa mga babayi agud malab-ot ang handom.
Luyag man sini nga mangin ehemplo sa iban nga kababainhan nga indi paglimitahan ang kaugalingon kag indi magpadikta sa kun ano lang ang luyag sang sosyodad nga himuon sang mga babaye.
Beauty queen nga si Ayumi Cassandra Zerrudo, ginpakita nga ang pamatan-on subong nga henerasyon puno sang passion kag purpose sa kabuhi
Ginpakita sang phenomenal Ilongga kag beauty queen nga si Ayumi Cassandra Zerrudo nga ang pamatan-on subong nga henerasyon puno sang passion kag purpose sa kabuhi.
Si Zerrudo isa ka youth leader, advocate, kag ambassadress nga ang implwensiya indi lamang sa eskwelahan kundi sa komunidad kag sa pungsod.
Siya isa sa mga Outstanding Student Leaders sang Iloilo City kag ginpangunahan ang mga inisyatibo para sa mga pagsanyog sang kaangay niya nga pamatan-on.
Siya man ang nagauyat sang title bilang Miss Philippine Youth Iloilo 2025 Princess.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Zerrudo, iya ginpahayag nga bilang isa ka beauty queen kag youth leader, aktibo ini sa pagpakigbahin sa nanari-sari nga mga aktibidad nga nagadul-ong sang kaayuhan sa komunidad.
Suno sa iya, kun paano niya ginahatagan dungog ang titulo kag korona nga iya naangkon, mas ginahatagan sini sang balor ang responsibilidad nga dala sini.
Pahayag niya, paagi sa pagtungod niya sa sini nga responsibilidad, makahatag siya sang inspirasyon kag paglaum sa kabataan kag sa iya komunidad.
Nagapati naman si Zerrudo nga ang abilidad sang isa ka tawo agud mangin maayo nga impluwensya sa iban nga tawo ang ginatakos paagi sa positibo nga impact sa komunidad kag indi paagi lamang sa edad.
Gindugang man sini nga ang tagsa sa pamatan-on may abilidad nga magpamuno kag luyag niya nga mangin instrumento man agud madiskubre sang iban ang ila mga potensyal sa pagpangalagad kag sa iban nga mga patag.
Mayor nga nakabunggo sa 20-anyos nga lalaki, nagdiretso maneho matapos ang insidente
Nagdiretso pa sa pagmaneho si former Calinog Mayor Salvador Divinigracia, matapos sini nga nabungguan ang isa ka 20-anyos nga lalaki sa Brgy.
Pasil, New Lucena, kagab-ihun sang Marso 15.
John Rey Laruan, Officer-in-charge sang New Lucena Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga natigayon nga madakop sang mga kapulisan si Divinigracia sa distritio sang Jaro, sa siudad sang Iloilo.
Suno sa iya, temporaryo ini nga gindala sa Pavia Municipal Police Station, apang gilayon man nga ginhalin sa pasilidad sang New Lucena MPS.
Ginpakigbahin man ni Laruan nga nagpamalibad pa si Divinigracia nga magpaidalom sa isa ka medical examination agud matumod kun ara ini sa idalom sang impluwensya sang makahulubog nga ilimnon.
Nagpahayag man ang driver suno kay Laruan nga wala sya nakahibalo nga nakabunggo na sya sang isa ka indibidwal, rason nga nagpadayun sya sa pagmaneho.
Sa subong, ginapreparar na nga igapasaka sang pamilya ni Idao ang kaso nga Reckless imprudence resulting to homicide batok kay former Calinog Mayor Salvador Divinigracia.
20-anyos nga lalaki sa New Lucena, nabungguan sang former Mayor
Ginapreparahan na sang mga awtoridad ang igapasaka nga kaso nga Reckless imprudence resulting to homicide, batok sa driver sang isa ka salakyan nga nakabunggo sa motorsiklo sang isa ka 20-anyos nga motorista, kagab-ihun sang Marso 15.
Ginkilala ang biktima kay Vhane Rodulf Idao, residente sang Purok 4 Brgy.
Damires, New Lucena, Iloilo; Samtang ginkilala naman ang driver sang nakabunggo nga salakyan kay former Calinog Mayor Salvador Divinigracia.
John Rey Laruan, Officer-in-charge sang New Lucena Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga nagapadulong sa siudad si Divinigracia, samtang nagapauli na man halin sa siudad si Idao sang nagsumalangay ang duha.
Suno kay Laruan, nagaliko na ang biktima sang gulpi lang ini nga ginsalakay sang salakyan ni Divinigracia kun sa diin nayudyud pa sini ang motorsiklo tubob tatlo pa ka kilometro ang kalayuon.
Nasapwan naman si Idao nga puno sang pilas sa iya lawas bangud man sa mabaskug nga impact sang pagkabunggo sa iya.
Gintuyo pa ini nga dal-on sa ospital, apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Ati nga isa na ka licensed Criminologist, ginhimo inspirasyon ang naagyan nga harassment sadto
Ini ang isa pinakamabudlay nga pamangkot nga gintinguhaan nga masabat sang isa ka bata nga Ati sa Sitio Kabarangkalan, Sto.
Siya amo si Ronenmae Espartero, Elosendo nga sa iya tuman ka bata pa lang nga edad, napukaw na ang iya huna-huna sa mapait nga reyalidad sa kun paano ginapakanubo sang sosyodad ang ila komunidad.
𝗦𝗼, 𝗵𝗮𝗺𝗯𝗮𝗹 𝗸𝗼 𝗸𝗶𝗻𝗮𝗵𝗮𝗻𝗴𝗹𝗮𝗻 𝗸𝗼 𝗺𝗮𝗴-𝗲𝘀𝗸𝘄𝗲𝗹𝗮, 𝗸𝗶𝗻𝗮𝗵𝗮𝗻𝗴𝗹𝗮𝗻 𝗸𝗼 𝗻𝗴𝗮 𝗺𝗮𝗴-𝗹𝗲𝗮𝗿𝗻,” pahayag ni Ronenmae sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo.
Bisan pito pa lang ka tuig, ginapas-an na ni Ronenmae ang mabug-at nga handom indi lang sang iya pamilya kundi sang bilog nga Ati Community sa ila sitio.
Adlaw-adlaw, nagalakat ini sang apat ka kilometros pakadto sa eskwelahan.
Kabahin na sang ila kabuhi ang isa ka oras kag tunga kalawig nga laktanay padulong sa eskwelahan sa aga kag amo man sa pagpauli sa hapon.
Sa sulod sang masobra isa ka dekada, nalampuwasan niya ini nga mga paggpanghangkat agud matapos ang iya pagtuon sa elementarya kag sekondarya.
Indi kaangay sang iban nga mga kaangay niya nga kabataan sa ila komunidad, ginpadayon ni Ronenmae ang iya pag-eskwela sa kolehiyo.
Suno sa iya, kalabanan sa mga ka-edad niya nga nakatapos sa sekondarya ang nag-untat na sa pag-eskwela agud magpangita na sang trabaho para sa ila pamilya.
Apang sa bahin ni Ronenmae, wala sini nalimtan ang rason kun ngaa ginhandom niya nga makaeskwela.
Nag-enroll siya sa kurso nga BS Criminology sa Northern Iloilo State University-Ajuy Campus.
Bisan malayo kag magasto bangud adlaw-adlaw ini nagapauli sa Viejo, wala ini nakapugong sa iya dedikasyon.
Antes maghalin sa ila balay, nagabitbit ini sang mga ulutanon nga tinamnan sang iya iloy agud ibaligya sa mga balay nga iya malabyan pakadto sa eskwelahan.
Makabenta siya sang 150 tubtob 200 pesos nga amo naman ang iya pang-allowance kag pang-pamasahe.
Sa sulod sang apat ka tuig, wala gid niya gin-uyangan ang suporta nga ginhatag sang iya ginikanan agud mapaeskwela siya tubtob nga nakagradwar sa iya ginpili nga kurso.
Pebrero subong nga tuig, bitbit ang pagsalig sa iya kaugalingon kag sa pagtuo sa Diyos, nagkuha si Ronenmae sang pasinawan nga mahimo magguba ukon magpabakod pa sang iya naumpisahan nga handom.
Sang nag-abot naman ang adlaw nga ginpagwa ang resulta sang eksaminasyon, nag-alalagay ang luha sang kalipay bangud yara ang iya pangalan sa mga nakapasar sa Criminology Licensure Examination.
Suno kay Ronenmae, ang pagkapasar niya sa pasinawan indi lang personal nga kadalag-an kundi sang bilog nga Ati community.
“𝗚𝘂𝘀𝘁𝗼 𝗸𝗼 𝗴𝗶𝗱 𝗶𝘆𝗮 𝗻𝗴𝗮 𝗺𝗮𝗴-𝘂𝗯𝗿𝗮 𝘀𝗮𝗻𝗴 𝗽𝗮𝗴𝗯𝗮𝗴-𝗼 𝗽𝗮𝗿𝗮 𝘀𝗮 𝗮𝗸𝗼𝗻 𝗰𝗼𝗺𝗺𝘂𝗻𝗶𝘁𝘆,” siling ni Ronenmae kun nga inspirasyon niya sa iya handom ang iya kaangay nga mga Ati.
Kun makapanumpa na kag masuksok na ang uniporme niya bilang katapo sang Philippine National Police, tungdan niya ang papel sang isa ka pulis nga nagapakigbato sang kaayuhan sang tanan ilabi na ang para sa kinamatarong sang mga indigenous communities nga amo ang iya ginhalinan.
Ihalad niya ang iya kaugalingon para sa pagdul-ong sang tampad nga serbisyo publiko.
pahayag ni Ronenmae tuhoy sa kon ano siya nga sahi nga alagad sang kasuguan sa palaabuton.
Sa kadalag-an ni Ronenmae, luyag sini ipalab-ot ang mensahe sang paglaum para sa sin-o man, Ati man ukon indi, nga wala sang ano man ang mahimo mag-upang sa handom sang isa ka dedikado kag determinado nga tawo.
Pahayag niya, ang kinahanglan lamang amo ang kaisog nga himuon ang una nga tikang kag ang pagkuha sang kusog adlaw-adlaw agud sakaon ang kada halintang padulong sa kadalag-an.
Para sa iya, kun nasarangan niya ini, masarangan man ini sang iban.
Dugang niya nga ang iya kadalag-an ang pamatuod nga ang mga Ati, may ikasarang man magpakigbato para sa ila handom.
Elmer Forro, nagpahayag nga indi long term solution ang fare hike
Indi isa ka long term solution para sa No to PUV Phaseout Coalition Panay, ang pagpasaka sang pamasahe sa mga pambuliko nga salakyan sa problema sang pungsod sa nagapadayun nga pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elmer Forro, Lead convenor sang nasambit nga grupo, iya ginpahayag nga ila gid nga ginakilala ang pagpasaka sang pamasahe sa mga Public Utility Vehicles bangud ini amo ang labing apektado sa krisis, apang indi ini isa ka bastante ka solusyon.
Suno kay Forro, pagsuspende sang excise tax kag E-vat ang pinaka mangin epektibo nga solusyon agud nga mas mahagan-hagan ang epekto sang pagtaas sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa publiko.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, may ara pa sang reserba nga langis ang pungsod nga insakto para sa duha ka bulan, rason nga dapat ibalik ang presyo sang gatong sa daan sini nga presyo bangud nga wala pa nagbakal ang Pilipinas sang mga produktong petrolyo umpisa sang nagsugod ang kinagamo sa Middle East.
64-anyos nga lalaki, gintiro samtang nagapamunyag
Pilason ang isa ka indibidwal, matapos ini nga gintiro samtang nagapamunyag sa Villa Hermosa Subdivision sa Brgy.
Baldoza, La Paz, kahapon nga adlaw, Marso 15, sang wala pa makilal-an nga suspek.
Ginkilala ang biktima kay Edgar Portellano, 64-anyos kag residente sang nasambit nga lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Nonoy, isa sa mga nakabati sang paglupok, iya ginpahayag nga nakit-an pa niya nga nagpalagyo ang suspek matapos sini nga gintiro si Portellano, apang wala sa iya huna-huna nga ini amo ang tawo sa likod sang pagtiro sa biktima.
Gilayon man nga gindala si Portellano sa ospital agud nga mahatagan sang nagakadapat nga pagbulong.
Sa subong, padayun pa ang imbestigasyon sang mga kapulisan agud matumod ang suspek sa nasambit nga insidente.
Isa ka eksperto, nagpahanumdom nga importante ang husto nga pamaagi sa pagkuha sang mga ”unwanted hair”
Nagpahanumdom ang isa ka eksperto nga importante ang husto nga pamaagi sa pagkuha sang mga unwanted hair sa lawas.
Cecilia Uy Tan, isa ka dermatologist, iya ginpahayag nga masami nga ginahimo sang iban sa pagkuha sang mga unwanted hair amo ang pag-shave.
Suno pa sa iya nga dapat insakto ang ginahimo nga pagkuha sini bangud mahimo ini nga magresulta sa pag-itom sang panit.
Ginpahayag man sini nga maghalong man sa kagamitan nga ginagamit kag mas maayo nga mangayo sang opinyon sang eksperto antes maghimo sang bisan ano nga beauty routine.
Tan, ang pag-atipan sang panit indi lamang para sa pagpatahum sini kundi importante man nga maayo ang sitwasyon sini para sa ikaayong lawas.
Oso, nagpanawagan sa mga negosyante nga himuon si Kristo bilang “kapawa sang negosyo” kag indi ang kapitalismo
Meliton Oso, Director sang Jaro Arcdiosesan Social action Worker sa mga negosyante nga himuon si Kristo bilang “kapawa sang negosyo” kag indi magpasakop sa ginatawag nga gahum sang kapitalismo.
Ilabi na sa karon nga nagasaka ang presyo sang mga balaklon bangud sa pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong.
Sa iya homily kaina sang aga, ginpahayag ni Oso nga wala dapat ginpasakaan ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo bangud “old stock” pa ini.
Ini nagaresulta sang mabug-at nga palas-anon sa mga pumuluyo ilabi na ang mga imol.
Dugang pa ni Oso nga indi dapat ini pag-gamiton ang ini nga tyempo sang mga negosyante agud magpatong pa gid sang sobra nga ginansya.
Ginpahayag man niya nga may responsibilidad ang gobyerno nga i-regulate ang merkado kag indi pagbayaan ang ila papel sa pagahatag bulig sa pumuluyo.
Ginpangabay man sini sa mga negosyante nga indi lamang pag-isipon kun pila ang makita sa ila nga Negosyo kundi dapat ang kaayuhan kag bulig man sa isigkatawo.
Apisar sini, nagbilin man ini sang pahanumdom sa mga tawo nga ang tanan nga nagakatabo subong temporary lamang.
Dugang pa niya nga tanan nga kadulom sa sini nga kabuhi mada-og tanan sang Ginoo kag may ara sang paglaom sa adlaw-adlaw nga tanan bangud si Hesus ang kapawa nga magabulig sa mga tawo.
”Sa kada pageantry nga dapat intrahan sang isa ka kandidata importante ang iya adbokasiya”-Ayumi Zerrudo
Bangud sa iya aktibo nga liderato kag adbokasiya sa komunidad kag sa kabataan, madamo na sang nabaton nga pasidungog si Ayumi Cassandra Sumagaysay Zerrudo kag isa na diri ang pagkilala sa iya bilang Ilongga youth leader kag ginhingadlan man ini bilang Miss Beauty with a Purpose Western Visayas 2024 kag amo man nga Outstanding Student Leaders sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa pagpakigbahin man sang istorya ni Zerrudo sa Bombo Radyo Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga sa kada pageantry nga dapat intrahan sang isa ka kandidata importante ang iya adbokasiya.
Suno pa sa iya nga ini ang rason kun ngaa naga-colaborate kag nagabinuligay ang nagkalain-lain nga organisasyon bangud sa adbokasiya nga gusto mo mapasangkad.
Nahibaluan nga sa karon nagaserbe man si Zerrudo bilang Q&A mentor sang mga pageant titleholders sa Iloilo agud mapabaskog ang kumpiyansa kag abilidad sang mga kababainhan sa public speaking.
Dugang pa diri, ini man siya ang ginpasidunggan nga Lakambini ng Kalikasan Iloilo City 2023, Miss Philippine Youth Iloilo 2025 Princess kun sa diin nakuha sini ang Best in Interview sa amo nga pageant.
Suno sa iya, ginahimo niya nga plataporma ang iya mga korona agud makahatag inspirasyon kag paglaum sa kabataan kag sa iya komunidad.
Ilongga maritime leader, ginahikayat ang mga kababainhan nga magkuha sang career sa port kag maritime industry
Ginahikayat sang Ilongga maritime leader nga si Christel Marie Layson ang mga kababainhan nga magkuha sang career sa port kag maritime industry.
Ini bangod indi lamang ini para sa kaugalingon kundi bulig man sa pungsod kag sa global economy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Layson, iya ginpahayag nga kon magsulod ang kababaihan sa amo nga industriya, wala lang sang mga ini ginapauswag ang ila kaugalingon kundi ginabuligan man nila ang ila komunidad kag ang ekonomiya.
Si Layson ang presidente sang Women in Maritime Philippines, isa ka organisasyon nga nagapromote kag nagasuporta sa kababainhan sa maritime sector.
Dugang pa sini, ginhingadlan man siya nga Miss Iloilo Paraw Regatta – Reyna ng Aliwan 2016 kag nagrepresentar sang Iloilo sa national pageant stage.
Suno pa sa iya nga importante nga may ara sang disiplina, determinasyon, kag pagpati sa kaugalingon ang isa ka babayi agud malab-ot ang iya handom kag mangin inspirasyon sa iban pa gid nga kababainhan.
Joint Committee sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan ng Iloilo, plano nga paayuhon ang emergency preparedness kag security measures sang Iloilo International Airport
Ginrekomendar sang Joint Committee sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan ng Iloilo nga paayuhon ang emergency preparedness kag pagpabaskog sang security measures sa Iloilo International Airport kasunod sang shooting incident nga natabo sang Enero 28, 2026.
Ginpanawagan man sang komite ang Department of Transportation nga i-prioritize ang expansion kag modernization sang Iloilo International Airport, lakip ang pagpalapad sang passenger terminal, pag-upgrade sang infrastructure para sa modern screening technology, kag pagpaayo sang passenger processing facilities.
Ginpangabay man ang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines nga magsumiter sang updated airport security plan sa Sangguniang Panlalawigan sa sulod sang anum ka bulan.
Nahibaluan nga sa hearing sang Pebrero 5, ginreview sang komite ang airport security structure sang Iloilo International Airport nga naga-operate sa idalom sang National Civil Aviation Security Program (NCASP) nga naka-align sa standards sang International Civil Aviation Organization.
Sa pag-review sang komite, ginpahayag nga nagsunod sa protocol ang OTS screening personnel, apang may pila ka vulnerabilities sa layout kag procedures sang screening area.
Suno sa komite, adequate pero “just barely” ang final security screening checkpoint sang airport, gani kinahanglan ini sang pag-upgrade agud mapabaskog ang aviation security kag mapanumbalik ang kumpiyansa sang publiko sa seguridad sa sulod sang Iloilo International Airport.
Iloilo City GSO, nagpatigayon sang clearing operations sa bahin sang Jaro river
Nagpatigayon sang clearing operations ang General Services Office (GSO) sa syudad sang Iloilo sa bahin sang Jaro river.
Niel Ravena, head sang GSO, iya ginpahayag nga na-identify ang 18 ka mga barangay nga posible ginahalinan sang basura.
Suno kay Ravena, ginatinguhaan nila nga makainstall sang waste trap sa lugar agud mapunggan kag makuha gilayon ang basura apang padayon sa gihapon nga nagahaboy sang basura ang mga pumuluyo sa suba.
Ginpabutyag man sini nga indi lamang teknikal nga solusyon ang kinahanglan, kundi pati pagbag-o sang social behavior sang mga pumuluyo sa pagdisponer sang ila mga basura.
Isa sa ginlantaw nga rason amo ang presensya sang mga informal settlers nga indi malab-utan sang mga truck nga naga-kolekta sang basura, rason nga may iban nga napilitan ihaboy na lang ang basura sa suba.
Padayon nga ginapangitaan sang solusyon sang mga otoridad ang problema, kag ginatinguhaan nga masolbar ini antes mag-abot ang bulan sang Hunyo kag Hulyo, bangud magasugod na ang tyempo sang tag- ululan.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa mga ang pumuluyo nga mangin responsable sa pagdisponer sang basura agud malikawan ang mas dako nga problema sa palibot kag sa komunidad.
Iloilo City Government, nagpanawagan sa mga kwalipikado nga drivers nga magsumiter na sang ila requirements para sa fuel subsidy
Nagpanawagan ang City Government sa mga kwalipikado nga drivers nga magsumiter na sang ila requirements agud makabaton sang fuel subsidy nga ginahanda sang syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, Spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga gin-set sang alkalde ang Marso 23 bilang deadline sang pagsumiter sang mga kinahanglanon agud ma-process kag ma-release gilayon ang fuel subsidy coupons para sa mga drivers.
Suno kay Gorzal, kinahanglan nga ang mga aplikante naga-operate gid sa ila ruta diri sa Iloilo City kag lehitimo nga residente sang syudad.
Para naman sa mga tricycle drivers, kinahanglan nga ang ila franchise naghalin sa Sangguniang Panlungsod.
Samtang sa mga public utility jeepneys (PUJ), dapat nakalista kag validated sa masterlist sang LTFRB.
Sa sini nga programa, makabaton sang ₱1,500 nga petroleum products subsidy ang mga jeepney drivers, samtang ₱500 naman ang ihatag sa mga tricycle drivers.
Suno sa city government, ginpatuman ini nga tikang bangud sa padayon nga pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong, ilabi na nga ginapaabot nga magapadayon pa ini sa masunod nga semana.
Dugang pa sang mga opisyal, dako ini nga bulig agud mapamag-an ang galastuhon sang mga drivers nga nagasalig sa adlaw-adlaw nga pagbiyahe para sa ila pangabuhian.
Ombudsman Jesus Crispin Remulla, ginsapubliko nga may natabo nga pag-deliver sang maleta nga kuwarta sang termino pa ni anay PRRD
Ginsapubliko ni Ombudsman Jesus Crispin Remulla nga may natabo nga pag-deliver sang maleta nga kuwarta sang termino pa ni anay President Rodrigo Roa Duterte.
Ginpahayag ni Remulla nga sa joint affidavit sang mga ex marines, ginatudlo sang mga ini nga may delivery sang maleta sa isa ka myembro sang Kongreso kun sa diin nakuhaan ini sang litrato.
Pahayag ni Remulla, natabo ini sang tyempo pa nga si Lord Allan Velasco pa ang Speaker sang Kamara nga natuon pa sa administrasyon ni Duterte.
Samtang, ang 18 ka persona nga ginahingadlan nga mga “bagmen” ni anay Ako Bicol party-list Rep.
Zaldy Co nag-ako nga nakadeliver ang mga ini sang P805 bilyon nga kickback halin sa ginapatihan nga anomalya sa flood-control projects sa pila ka indibidwal.
Ginpahayag ni Remulla nga indi gid tanan nga detalye sa mga litrato ang insakto, kag posible nga may ara sang manipulasyon nga nagakatabo.
Suno kay Remulla, importante nga mapamatud-an ang ginpahayag sang mga personalidad base sa ila personal nga nahibaluan.
Ginpunto man sini nga indi tanan nga 18 ka persona ato sang tion nga gin-deliver ang gina-alegar nga maleta.
Dugang pa sini nga seryoso ang mga alegasyon kag kinahanglan ini nga pamatud-an sang mga tawo nga mismo nakasaksi sang natabo.
Istorya-pulitika, napahapyawan kadungan sang pagtilipon sang Ilonggo mayors kag mga kongresista
Ginkumpirma sang presidente sang League of Municipalities of the Philippines (LMP) Iloilo Chapter nga napahapyawan ang istorya-pulitika kadungan sang pagtilipon sang mga Ilonggo mayors kag mga kongresista sa Metro Manila.
Suzette Mamon, iya ginpahayag nga natabo ini kadungan sang simple nga panyapon sang mga alkalde pagkatapos sang LMP General Assembly sang Marso 8 tubtub 11.
Yara man sa amo nga event sanday Uswag Ilonggo Partylist Rep.
Nahatagan sang tyempo ang mga kongresista nga mag-deliver sang mensahe kag nangin sentro sang panawagan suno kay Mamon ang paghugpong sang tanan sa probinsya.
Sa mensahe naman ni Biron, gintawag sini si Representative Defensor nga “masunod nga gobernador” sang probinsya.
Ferj naman ya, if he states it as it is, we take it also as face value nga amo ni ang ginhambal ya.
And all the mayors man daw na-appreciate man ang amo to nga statement ni Congressman Biron,” suno kay Mamon sang ginpamangkot kun paano nila na-interpret ang amo nga pahayag ni Biron.
Dugang sini: “We respect him [Congressman Biron] so much as congressman, as leader… talalupangdon, isa man sa pillars sang mga lideres sa Iloilo, mapag-on nga haligi indi lang sa pamulitika kundi sa governance man.
Ginakabig man ni Mamon nga isa ka “welcome message” sa ila bilang mga alkalde ang nangin deklarasyon ni Biron.
Ginpabutyag man sini ang gusto sang mga alkalde nga masustiner ang maayo nga working relations kag pang-gobyerno sa mga kabanwahanan.
Wala sang nahatag nga reaksyon si Defensor sa amo nga “deklarasyon” ni Biron.
Pahayag ni Mamon, mas nauna nga nakahatag sang mensahe ang 3rd district representative antes pa man ang kongresista sang 4th district.
Nahibaluan nga ang kandidato sa pagka-gobernador ang isa sa ginabantayan sa 2028 elections matapos nga na-secure ni Iloilo Governor Arthur “Toto” Defensor Jr.
PESO: Numero sang Ilonggo OFWs sa Middle East nga nag-request sang repatriation, masobra na sa 40
Nagdangat na sa 42 ka mga Ilonggo overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) sa Middle East ang na-profile sang Iloilo Provincial Government nga nag-request sang repatriation bangud sang epekto sang gyera.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Cynthia Dario, head sang Provincial Public Employment Service Office (PESO), iya ginpahayag nga nabalaka na ini nga mga Ilonggo sa ila sitwasyon sa tunga sang nagasingki nga tensyon.
Dugang sini, daku man ang nangin epekto sang kinagamo sa ila mental health.
Sa mga naghingyo nga mabuligan sila nga makapauli, pinakamataas ang halin ang Kuwait nga may 12 workers.
May requests man halin sa mga Ilonggo sa United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Bahrain, Lebanon, kag Israel.
Suno kay Dario, napasaka na ang repatriation requests sa Department of Migrant Workers (DMW) para nga ma-proseso na.
Sa data sang PESO, masobra sa 12,300 ang mga Ilonggo nga naga-trabaho sa nagkalain-lain nga mga pungsod sa Middle East.
Kadam-an sa mga trabaho sa amo nga rehiyon amo ang sa sector sang domestic work, healthcare, construction, kag retail.
Pebrero 28, 2026 sang nag-umpisa ang gyera matapos nga nag-atake ang US kag Israel sa Iran nga nagpatay sa Supreme Leader kag iban pa nga senior military kag defense officials sang Tehran.
Gilayon nga nagbalos ang Iran paagi sa pagpalupad sang missiles kag drones sa mga pungsod sa rehiyon kun sa diin nahamtang ang military bases sang Estados Unidos.#
CDEU, may nabilin pa nga mga target sa Bakhaw, Mandurriao
May nabilin pa nga mga target ang City Drug Enforcement Unit (CDEU) sa Barangay Bakhaw, Mandurriao, Iloilo City magluwas sa 35-anyos nga babaye nga nadakpan subong nga semana kag nakuhaan sang malapit P2-million nga balor sang iligal nga droga.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Roque Gimeno III, Officer-in-Charge sang CDEU, iya ginpahayag nga tatlo ang ila gina-puntariya nga madakop, apang sang gin-conduct ang operasyon, si alias Ala lamang ang naaresto.
Nagdangat sa 280 gramos sang ginapasuni shabu ang nakuha kay alias Ala, kag natigayon na ini nga mapasakaan sang panumbungon nga paglapas sa Republic Act 9165 ukon Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
Malapit lima ka bulan ang ila nga monitoring sa amo nga high-value individual bangud madanlog ini sa awtoridad.
Gin-identify ni Gimeno ang isa ka source ni alias Ala nga si alias Mike.
Pahayag ni Roque, bisan sang tion nga na-assign pa lang siya bilang OIC sa Iloilo City Police Station 1, nabatian na sini ang pangalan ni alias Ala nga amo ang source sang iligal nga droga sang mga nadakpan sa drug buy bust sa Zamora kag Veterans Village sa Iloilo City Proper.
Kita sang tricycle drivers sa Iloilo City, apektado man bangud sa nagatimbuok nga presyo sang gatong
Halos P300 gid ang nadula sa kita sang pila ka mga tricycle drivers sa syudad sang Iloilo umpisa sang nagtimbuok ang presyo sang gatong bangud sa epekto sang gyera sa Middle East.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Leon Manderico, nagabyahe sang tricycle sa Cuartero, Jaro, Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga antes ini nga semana, may limpyo pa siya nga P800 kada adlaw.
Apang subong suno sa iya, P500 kada adlaw na lang ang iya madala pauli.
Sa baylo nga maglibot para nga makapangita sang pasahero, nagapundo na lang sila suno sa iya kag nagahulat sang pasahero agud nga makakinot sa gatong.
Matandaan nga gin-umpisahan sang Martes ang pagpahat-pahat sang pagpatuman sang big-time oil price hike para sa gatong.
Sa gasolina, may pagsaka nga P7 tubtub sa P13 kada litro sa isa ka semana.
Ini na ang ika-siyam nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga pagtaas sa gasolina.
May ginalantaw pa gid nga big-time price hike sa masunod nga semana ilabi na nga wala pa nagatahaw ang tension sa Middle East.
Dos pesos nga saka sa plete sa traditional jeep, ginapanawagan
Ginaduso sang pila ka mga traditional jeepney driver-operator sa syudad sang Iloilo ang dos pesos nga saka sa plete subong nga nagatimbuok ang presyo sang gatong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Robert Ventura, iya ginpahayag nga kun mapasakaan ang P13 nga regular fare subong sa tradisyonal nga jeep, masarangan pa ini sang commuters.
Kun indi man pag-aprubahan sang gobyerno suno kay Ventura, magasunod man sila sa protocol, ilabi na nga ginapanumdom man nila ang epekto sini sa mga pasahero.
Nagahingyo ini nga kuntani pamatian man sang gobyerno ang panawagan nga dulaon na ang Oil Deregulation Law kag i-suspend ang excise tax sa produktong petrolyo agud nga makabenepisyo ang kadam-an subong nga may krisis.
Una na nga nagpahayag si Department of Transportation (DOTr) Secretary Giovanni Lopez nga ginatun-an na subong sang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) ang pending petition para sa fare hike, apang wala pa ginpatpat ang detalye kun pila eksakto ang isaka sa plete.
ATOP, nagaduso nga dugangan sang P5 tubtob P10 ang ila flag down rate
Ginaduso sang Association of Taxi Operators of Panay (ATOP) kaupod ang iban pa nga mga grupo sang taxi operators nga madugangan sang P5 tubtob P10 ang flagdown rate sa mga taxi bangud sa pagtaas sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Perfecto Yap, Presidente sang ATOP, iya ginpahayag nga nalakip ang mga taxi drivers kag operators sa naapektuhan sang tuman nga pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong.
Suno kay Yap, direkta sila nga magapresentar sang ila ginaduso nga pagpataas sang flagdown sa Central Office sang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) agud nga madasig nga maaprubahan kag mapatuman ang ila ginaduso nga pagpataas flagdown rate.
Ginpahayag man niya nga kun saligan lang ang fuel subsidy nga igahatag sang gobyerno, mabudlayan gid ang mga taxi drives kag operators bangud temporaryo lang ini nga solusyon.
Dugang pa ni Yap, mangin dako gid nga bulig sa ila kun maaprubahan ang ila ginaduso nga pagpasaka sang flagdown rate sa mga taxi.
PRO6, ginakabig nga alarming ang nakumpiskar nga minilyon nga balor sang droga sa WV
Ginakabig nga ‘alarming’ sang Police Regional Office 6 (PRO6) ang nakumpiskar nga P74.87 million nga balor sang ilegal nga droga sa bug-os nga Western Visayas sa bulan lang sang Pebrero subong nga 2026.
Base sa datos sang PRO6, ang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO) amo ang nakarecord sang pinakadako nga nakumpiskar nga droga, matapos nga naglab-ot sa P46.1 million nga balor sang illegal drugs ang narecover sang ila nga mga kapulisan.
Josefino Ligan, Regional Director sang PRO6, bangud sa mataas nga numero sang nakumpiskar nga droga kun sa diin may ara man sang mga involved nga mga barangay officials, ginkabig gid nila ini nga seryoso nga sitwasyon.
Pahayag niya, base sa mga ginpatigayon nga imbestigasyon, halin mismo sa National Capital Region ang mga nagaabot nga droga sa Western Visayas.
Dugang pa ni Ligan agud nga masiguro nga wala sang magalab-ot pa nga droga sa rehiyon, magapadayun ang ila hugot nga pagbantay sa bulig man sang ila partner agencies sa mga area sang Western Visayas agud nga matumod ang mga posible ginaagyan ukon mga pamaagi nga makasulod ang illegal nga droga.
34 ka mga kapulisan sang ICPO nga wala naka drug test, balido ang rason
Justifiable ang ginhatag nga rason sang 34 ka mga kapulisan sang Iloilo City Police Office, matapos ginpangayuan sang paathag kun ngaa wala sila nakapaidalom sa mandatory drug test.
Shella Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang ICPO, iya ginpahayag nga sa inisyal nga evaluation sa ginsumiter nga explanation letter sang nasambit nga mga kapulisan, mayorya sa ila ang nakahatag sang balido nga rason.
Suno kay Sangrines, ginpaidalom na ang mga ini sa drug test kahapon, Marso 12, apang magaguwa pa ang resulta matapos ang pila ka adlaw.
Dugang pa niya nga dapat gid ang mga ini nga magpaidalom sa ginapatuman nga mandatory drug test agud masiguro nga wala sila nagagamit sang ilegal nga droga agud man nga magserbe sila nga ehemplo sa publiko.
Police personnel sang ICPO, nagnegatibo sa iligal nga droga
Nagnegatibo sa iligal nga druga ang mga personnel sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga nagpadaidalom sa mandatory drug testing sang nagligad nga Marso 3, 2026.
269 ka mga personnel ang nagpaidalom sa amo nga test.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Shella Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang ICPO, iya ginpahayag nga importante ang mandatory drug test bangud kabahin ini sang internal cleansing program sang mga kapulisan.
Suno pa sa iya, ang nasambit nga programa amo may tinutuyo nga mapabilin ang integridad, disiplina, kag propesyonalismo sa mga police personnel.
Ang nasambit nga mandatory drug testing amo ang regular nga ginapatigayon sa mga kapulisan kada bulan.
No to PUV Phaseout Coalition Panay, nakulangan sa P5,000 fuel subsidy
Ginakabig sang grupo nga “No to PUV Phaseout Coalition Panay” nga tama gid ka kulang para sa mga Public Utility Vehicle (PUV) drivers ang P5,000 fuel subsidy nga igahatag sang gobyerno.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elmer Forro, Lead Convenor sang nasambit nga grupo, iya ginpahayag nga ang subsidiya ang magahatag lang sang bulig sa mga PUV drivers bisan pa nga apektado ang tanan sa krisis sang produktong petrolyo.
Suno sa iya, mas makabulig sa publiko ang gobyerno kun matigayon na nga masuspende ang excise tax kag E-Vat sa gatong.
Ang paghatag sang subsidy sang gobyerno ang sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga kinagamo sa Middle East nga nag-patimbuok sang presyo sang gatong.
Mag-utod, patay matapos ginluthang sa Laua-an, Antique; SK Chairman kag utod sini, ginatudlo suspek sang krimen
Patay ang duha ka mag-utod matapos ang nagluntad nga pagpanglabo kag pagpangluthang sa Brgy.
Laua-an, Laua-an, Antique, pasado las-3:00 kahapon sang hapon, Marso 11, 2026.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday alyas Isagani, 35-anyos, isa ka mangunguma, kaupod sini si alyas Randy, 30-anyos kag isa ka laborer nga pareho residente sang amo nga lugar.
Pilason naman si alyas Michael, 40-anyos kag utod sang mga suspek nga sanday alyas Joemar, 26-anyos, isa ka SK Chairman, kaupod sini si alyas Gerald, 27-anyos nga residente sang Brgy.
Suno sa Laua-an Municipal Police Station, daan nga hiligut-anon sang magpamilya ang rason sang amo nga krimen.
Yara naman sa kustodiya sang Laua-an MPS si Gerald kag magapangatubang sang nagakaigo nga kaso.
US military, ginwasak ang naval ships sang Iran dala ang 16 nga minelayers ukon barko nga ginagamit sa pag-mina malapit sa Strait of Hormuz
Ginwasak sang US military ang naval ships sang Iran dala ang 16 nga minelayers ukon barko nga gina-gamit sa pag-mina malapit sa Strait of Hormuz, isa sa pinaka-importante nga alagyan kun sa diin ginabyahe ang one-fifth nga krudo sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ang nasambit nga strike parte sang military action sang pungsod kun sa diin nagpaandam si US Secretary Pete Hegseth sang Malala nga pagpang-atake.
Base sa report, nagapati ang US intelligence assets nga nagahanda ang Iran para sa posible nga pagpadala sang naval mines sa Strait of Hormuz.
Ginkumpirma naman ni US President Donald Trump nga nakit-an na sang mga ini nga naguba ang pila ka mga numero sang inactive mine laying boats kag mga barko.
Samtang, gin-akusaran naman sang Iran Ambassador to the United Nations ang Amerika kag Israel nga tuyo ang pag-target sa mga sibilyan kun sa diin nagpatay na sang masobra 1,300 ka mga tawo ang ila ginapatigayon nga airstrike halin sang nag-umpisa ang gyera sang Pebrero 28.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpasar ang UN Security Council sang resolution nga nagapanawagan sa Iran nga untaton gilayon ang ila pag-atake sa Gulf states, kag ginsiling nga sila ang naga-breach sa international law kag nagatuga sang “serious threat sa international peace and security.”
Ang resolution, nga ginpasar sang 13 ka mga boto kag may 2 ka abstentions, ang naga-demand sang immediate cessation sang tanan nga atake sang Islamic Republic of Iran batok sa Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, kag Jordan.
VM Baronda, nagapasalamat sa mga naghatag sang importansya sa iya achievement
Dako gid ang pagpasalamat ni Iloilo City Vice Mayor Lady Julie Grace “Love-Love” Baronda sa pagkilala sa iya sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan sang Iloilo nahanungod sa pag-eleher sa iya bilang Chairman sang National Movement of Young Legislators (NMYL).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga dako nga butang para sa iya nga ginhatagan importansya ang nasambit nga achievement niya nga makaangkon sang mataas nga posisyon sa amo nga organisasyon.
Nahibaluan nga mangin ang Sangguniang Panlalawigan sang Antique ang nagkilala man kay Baronda bangud sa amo nga achievement.
Ang NMYL amo ang isa ka organisasyon nga may adbokasiya nga good governance, responsive legislation, kag policy development kag ginabug-usan sang elected local government officials nga nagaedad 40 panubo kalakip ang mga city kag municipal councilors, vice mayors, kag provincial board members sa bug-os nga pungsod.
WVTC, dako ang pagpasalamat sa igahatag nga fuel subsidy sang gobyerno
Dako ang pagpasalamat sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative nahanungod sa igahatag sang gobyerno nga P5,000 fuel subsidy sa mga mga drivers sang Public Utility Vehicles (PUV) nga pagasuguran na sa masunod nga semana.
Raymundo Boyet Parcon, Chairman sang WVTC, iya ginpahayag nga antes pa ang impormasyon kun san-o igahatag ang subsidiya halin sa gobyerno, madamo na ang operators nga nagapamangkot sa iya nahanungod sa igahatag nga bulig sang gobyerno subong nga nagtimbuok ang presyo sang gatong.
Suno kay Parcon, nagapasalamat gid sila sa bulig sang gobyerno ilabi na ang mga operators, apang wala niya man gin-ako niya nga kulang sa gihapon ang lima ka libo bangud makaigo lang ini sa sulod sang lima ka adlaw nga pagpatughong sang gatong.
Pahayag niya nga sang wala pa sang pagsaka sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo, yara lang sa P1,000 ang ila nga galastuson, apang sa subong, yara na sa P1,400 tubtob P1,500 ang ila magasto para lang sa isa ka adlaw.
Nahibaluan nga naghatag man sang dugang nga bulig ang National Food Authority (NFA) paagi sa rice subsidy sa mga driver sang PUVs.
Ginpanawagan ni 3rd District Board Member Mark Palabrica sa Sangguniang Panlalawigan sang Iloilo nga palig-onon ang fire protection services sa probinsya.
Suno kay Palabrica, 15 sa 93 ka firetruck sa Iloilo ang unserviceable, kag ang pila ka unit sini ang naga-serbisyo sang halos 30 na ka tuig.
Ini nga sitwasyon ang nagahatag sang peligro sa mga komunidad, ilabi na sa mga banwa nga isa lang ka firetruck ang ginasaligan.
Ginpunto man niya ang insidente sa banwa sang Bingawan, kun sa diin nagresponde lang ang personnel sang BFP sa isa ka sunog gamit ang fire extinguisher bangud unserviceable ang ila nga firetruck.
Bangud sini, gin-aprubahan sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang resolusyon nga nagapanawagan sa Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) kag BFP nga maghatag update sa requests para sa bag-o nga firetrucks kag maghimo sang province-wide inventory sang kagamitan.
Nagpahayag man si Palabrica nga kinahanglan ini nga hatagan sang nagakaigo nga solusyon agud masiguro ang safety sang mga pumuluyo sa tion sang emerhensya, labi na subong nga ginasaulog ang Fire Prevention Month.
DEPED, nagpatuman sang flexible working arrangement para sa ila mga opisina bilang kabahin sang ginapatuman nga four-day work week
Nagpatuman sang adjustment sa guidelines ang Department of Education central office pinaagi sa flexible working arrangement para sa ila mga opisina bilang kabahin sang ginapatuman nga four-day work week.
Suno sa patakaran, Lunes tubtob Huwebes ang onsite nga trabaho sa opisina samtang ang Biyernes ang work-from-home arrangement sang mga empleyado.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Hernani Escullar, spokesperson sang DepEd Region VI, ginpahayag niya nga kabahin ini sang tikang sang ahensya agud makatipid sa operational expenses.
Samtang sa pihak nga bahin, padayon naman nga magasunod ang mga teaching personnel sa gin-set nga schedule sang end of school year rites.
Suno sa DepEd, Marso 19 tubtob 20 ang final examinations, samtang Marso 23 tubtob 27 ang pagpatigayon sang recognition day para sa mga kabataan, samtang Marso 30 tubtob 31 naman ang gin-set nga schedule para sa end of school year rites.
Dugang pa ni Escullar nga ginapahanumdom sang ahensya ang mga eskwelahan nga magpatuman sang no collection policy sa pagpatigayon sang end of school year rites, bangud tanan ng expenses ang ginakuha sa Maintenance and Other Operating Expenses (MOOE) sang eskwelahan.
Gina-emphasize man sang DepEd sa mga manunudlo, estudyante kag attendees nga siguruhon ang maayo nga ventilation sa mga lugar nga pagahiwatan sang moving-up kag recognition ceremonies agud masiguro ang kaayuhan kag kaluwasan sang tanan.
Pila ka mga driver, tuman nga nabudlayan sang pagsaka sang produktong petrolyo
Tuman ka sakit kag mabudlay para sa pila ka mga driver ang pagsaka sang produktong petrolyo subong nga adlaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas T oto, isa ka delivery truck driver, iya ginpahayag nga dako nga epekto para sa ila kag sa ila kompanya ang pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong.
Suno pa sa iya nga kagab-i pa lang nagakaubusan na sang ordinaryo nga diesel nga iya ginatughong sa iya ginadrive nga truck, rason nga special diesel ang iya ginabakal nga nagadugang pa sang iya palaligban kun sa diin kuhaon ang kwarta sa pagbakal sang mahal nga gatong.
Ginpahayag pa sini nga nagalab-ot sang 60 ka litro ang kapasidad sang tangke sang truck nga iya ginabyahe kag kun magapadayon pa ang mataas nga presyo sang gatong, buhinan man sang kompanya ang ginahatag sa ila nga pang-gatong kag depende na lang sa ila kun paano nila ini paiguon.
Dugang pa sini nga magluwas nga nabudlayan na sila, masakit man sa ila bulsa ang nagakatabo nga ila ginakonsidera bilang halit sa ila pangabuhian.
Magapatuman sang istrikto nga energy conservation protocol ang Iloilo City Government lakip na ang work stations, satellite offices kag units agud makabulig kinot sa pag-konsumo sang kuryente.
Ini matapos ginpirmahan na ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang Executive Order No.
030 kahapon nga adlaw nahanungod sa ginpapanaog nga Memorandum Circular No.
Ini nga Executive Order may tinutuyo nga ipatuman sa pungsod ang 4-day workweek arrangement nga para man sa energy conservation bangud sa pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong sa nagapadayon nga tensyon sang tunga sang US kag Israel batok sa Iran.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, Spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga bisan nagapatuman sang mga tikang sa pagtipid ang City Government, indi nila pagpahanugutan nga ma-hamper ang paghatag sang serbisyo sa mga pumuluyo.
Suno pa sa iya nga ipabilin sa gihapon sang City Government ang air conditioning units nga naka-set sa 24 degrees Celsius ang thermostat settings agud makabulig sa pagtipid sang kuryente.
Ginpahayag man ni Gorzal nga ang operating hours sang air conditioning units sa mga opisina sang syudad magaandar lamang halin alas 7:30 sang aga tubtob alas 4 sang hapon, halin Lunes tubtob Huwebes.
Ang ini nga tikang kabahin sang mga ginapatuman nga pamaagi sang City Government agud makonserbar ang enerhiya samtang ginapabilin ang serbisyo sa publiko.
Ginpahayag man sini nga maga-adopt man ang syudad sang flip management sa paggamit sang government vehicles agud mas mapahapos ang pagtipid sang gatong.
Dugang pa ni Gorzal nga may ara na sang internal memorandum nga igapatuman sang Administrative Office sa tanan nga mga departamento sang City Government agud masiguro nga masunod ang ini nga mga tikang.
Nava, pagatun-an kun magahatag sila sang fuel subsidy
Pagatunan-an sang Guimaras Provincial Government kun magahatag sila sang fuel subsidy matapos ang pagtimbuok sang mga produktong petrolyo sa bilog nga pungsod.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Guimaras Governor Lucille Nava, iya ginpahayag nga nagakinahanglan sang dako nga budget agud nga mapatuman ang paghatag sang fuel subsidy, rason nga paminsaran anay ini sang nasambit nga probinsya.
Suno pa kay Nava, ila gina-engganyo ang mga residente sang Guimaras nga ipatuman sa ila tagsa ka mga balay ang pagbuhin sa paggamit sang mga appliances kun wala man halos ginagamit.
Dugang pa niya dako gid ang apekto sang pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong, ilabi na sa ila nga mga pumulyo nga nagabyahe sakay sang mga fiberboats nga isa man sa mga apektado sang nasambit nga krisis.
8,000 ka mga delegado, ginalauman nga magakadto sa Passi City Iloilo, sa pagahiwaton nga WVRAA Meet 2026
Ginalauman nga magalab-ot sa 8,000 ka mga delegado ang magakadto sa Passi City Iloilo, sa pagahiwaton nga Western Visayas Regional Athletic Association (WVRAA) Meet 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Nicasio Valenzuela, Division Sports Officer, iya ginpahayag nga maga-compete ang walo ka mga division sa mga nagkalain-lain nga sports competitions nga ginalakipan sang Antique, Aklan, Capiz, Guimaras, Iloilo Province, Roxas City, Iloilo City, kag host nga Passi City.
Suno pa sa iya nga may yara sang 25 ka mga sports competetions para sa secondary levels bangud may yara sang gindugang nga sports kaangay sang weightlifting, samtang 16 ka mga events para sa elementary category, kag apat naman sa para-games.
Magasugod ang mga hinamang sa Marso 17 kag magatakop sa Marso 23.
Suno kay Valenzuela nga ila gid ginhandaan ang ini nga event kag nagapasalamat man ang mga ini bangud sa dako man nga suporta sa ila sang provincial government amo man sang ila mga Local Government Units agud matigayon ang kaangay sini nga aktibidades.
Lalaki nga mabakal tani sang gasolina, wala ginpahanugutan sang gasolinahan
Dismayado ang isa ka indibidwal, matapos nga wala sila ginpahanugutan nga magbakal sang 10 ka litro nga gasolina sa isa ka gasoline station sa siudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Rene Bordas, isa ka driver, iya ginpahayag nga mabakal tani sila sang gasolina bangud nga kinahanglan nila para sa ila generator sa rason nga brownout sa ila nga lugar.
Suno kay Bordas, isa sila sa mga suki sang gasolinahan kun sa diin ginkakibot nya nga indi na pwede magbakal kun indi direkta nga igatughong sa isa ka salakyan.
Nahibaluan nga ini amo ang ginapatuman sang mga gasoline station sa bilog nga pungsod bangud sa pahanumdom sang Department of Energy nga mga salakyan lang ang ginapahanugutan nga tughungan sang mga produktong petrolyo agud malikawan ang hoarding kag masiguro nga patas ang pagbakal sang publiko.
Ginpirmahan na ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang Executive Order No.
030 nahanungod sa ginpapanaog nga Memorandum Circular No.
114 halin sa Office of the President nga may tinutuyo nga ipatuman sa pungsod ang 4-day workweek arrangement nga para man sa energy conservation bangud sa pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong sa nagapadayun nga tenyson sa Middle East.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, Spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga nagpatawag ang alcalde sang isa ka emergency meeting sa mga Department Heads agud isturyahan ang nasambit nga alternative arrangement para sa mga empleyado sang siudad.
Suno kay Gorzal, yari ang mga magapabilin sa orihinal nga arrangement:
Dugang pa ni Gorzal nga sa amo nga Executive order ni Mayor Treñas, ila pagasiguraduhon nga indi maapektuhan ang pila ka mga operation sang siudad sa idalom sang igapatuman nga 4-day workweek arrangement.
NUSP-Panay, ginpakamalaot ang red-tagging batok sa ila organisasyon nga nagluntad sa CPU
Ginpakamalaot sang National Union of Students of the Philippines (NUSP) Panay ang ginatawag nila nga red-tagging batok sa ila organisasyon nga nagluntad sa isa ka NSTP session sa Central Philippine University.
Ini matapos ginpalapta sang isa ka babayi halin sa CPU nga ang organisasyon kaangay sang Anakbayan, National Union of Students of the Philippines kag Kabataan Partylist, pati ang iban pa nga grupo ang mga produkto sang New People’s Army.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Matt Gonzaga, coordinator sang National Union of Students of the Philippines (NUSP) Panay, iya ginpahayag nga legitimate organizations kag sources ang ila grupo kag indi parte sang ano man nga rebelde nga grupo.
Suno pa kay Gonzaga, nag-reach out na sa ila ang Commission on Human Rights may kaangtanan sa nasambit nga insidente, kag sa subong ginaproseso na nila ang validated complaint agud ma-imbestigahan ini.
Gin-athag man sini nga ginahatagan gid nila sang importansya ang freedom to associate, ukon ang kahilwayan sang mga indibidwal nga mag-upod ukon mag-organisar sang ila kaugalingon nga mga grupo nga magabulig sa komunidad.
Dugang pa ni Gonzaga, ginakabig nila nga maka-alarma ang nagakatabo nga ini sa sulod mismo sang eskwelahan kag indi dapat pagkabigon nga isa lamang ka normal nga buluhaton sang isa ka organisasyon.
Dialysis center sa Pototan, Iloilo nga ginlunsyar sang Iloilo Provincial Hospital, dako nga bulig para sa mga pasyente
Ginlunsyar na ang libre nga dialysis center sa Iloilo Provincial Hospital nga ginakabig nga dako nga bulig para sa mga pasyente nga naga-antos sang sakit sa kidney.
Alberto Cordero, chief sang Iloilo Provincial Hospital, iya ginpahayag nga bangud sa nagadamo nga kaso sang mga pasyente nga may Chronic Kidney Disease nga nagakinahanglan sang regular nga dialysis, dako gid nga bulig ang pag-abri sang dialysis center sa Pototan, Iloilo.
Nagpasalamat man si Cordero sa Iloilo Provincial Government bangud natigayon ang pagtukod sang dialysis clinic nga makabulig sa madamo nga pasyente sa nasambit nga banwa amo man sa mga kaiping sini nga kabanwahanan.
Suno pa sa iya, may ginpatuman nga scheduling system para sa mga pasyente agud maorganisa ang pagserbisyo sang dialysis center.
Katuyuan man sang programa nga mapanubo ang gasto sang mga pasyente nga nagakinahanglan sang dialysis bangud libre ini nga serbisyo nga ginahatag sang gobyerno.
Isa ka estudyante, nagapanawagan nga hatagan man sila sang konsiderasyon agud makabaligya sa Iloilo Terminal Market
Nagapanawagan ang isa ka estudyante nga hatagan man sila sang konsiderasyon agud makabaligya sa Iloilo Terminal Market.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay alyas Mae, iya ginpahayag nga ang iya benta sa pagbaligya sang mga utan amo man ang iya nga ginasupot agud ibayad sa ila nga tuition sang iya manghod.
Suno sa iya, nagatapos ang iya klase alas-otso sa gab-i kag pagkatapos deritso ini sa merkado kag magbaligya tubtob alas-tres sa kaagahon bangud may klase pa ini alas-syete sa aga.
Pahayag man niya, mismo ang iya amay ang nagatanum sang iya ginabaligya kag ginadul-ong lang ini sa iya bangud wala na ini nagapuli sa ila balay sa Leon para makakinot sa pamasahe.
Paagi sa pagbaligya bilang naga-bolante, daku gid nga bulig ini sa ila pag-eskwela kag pagpangabuhi.
Ini ang rason nga iya gid ginahingyo sa City Government nga hatagan sila sang pwesto kag oras nga makabaligya.
Dugang pa ni Mae, ginasigurado man sini nga sarado na ang merkado bag-o ini magpwesto sang iya nga baligya.
Mga bolantero sa Iloilo Terminal Market, nagahingyo nga hatagan sila sang tyansa nga makabaligya
Nagahingyo sa Iloilo City Government ang mga bolantero sa Iloilo Terminal Market nga hatagan sila sang tyansa nga makabaligya.
Ini kasunod sa isa ka video nga nagalapta sa karun sa social media kun sa diin makit-an nga nagpatigayon sang clearing operation kag ginpangkuha sang personnel sang Local Economic Enterprise Office (LEEO) ang mga baligya sang mga bolantero sang gab-i sang Marso 6.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Juls, isa sa mga naga-bolante kag na-eksperyensyahan mismo ang natabo nga clearing operation, iya ginpahayag nga gulpyada lang nag-abot ang personnel sang LEEO kaupod ang katapo sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sa lugar kag gilayon nagpatigayon sang clearing operation.
Suno kay Juls, wala sang ‘notice’ nga ginhatag sang ila ang LEEO kun sa diin ginpangkuha lang gilayon ang ila mga baligya pati ang ila nga kilohan.
Pahayag niya, nakuha ang duha ka sako sang kalabasa sang iya kaupdanan nga mag-asawa nga naga-bolante man sa lugar kun sa diin ginkarga ini sang LEEO kag gindala.
Suno sa mga naga-bolante, ginpahayag sang personnel sang LEEO nga posible nga makuha ang ila baligya kag gawadon sa ila nga opisina.
Ginpahayag naman ni Juls nga nagalab-ot P1,000 tubtob P2,000 ang balor sang isa ka sako sang ila baligya kun ila ini gawadon.
Dugang pa niya, antes sila magpwesto kag magbaligya ginasiguro nila nga sarado na ang merkado kag iya man ginklaro nga wala sila nagasinabad sa lugar kag ginatuyo lamang nga makabaligya agud maka-kwarta kag may ibuhi sa ila nga mga pamilya.
Tatlo ka nightclub sa syudad, nakabaton sang warning matapos wala sang mga ini ma-comply ang kumpleto nga pag-proseso sang 2026 business permit
Nakabaton sang warning ang tatlo ka nightclub sa syudad matapos wala sang mga ini ma-comply ang kumpleto nga pagproseso sang 2026 business permit antes ang ginhiwat nga inspeksyon sang mga otoridad.
Nestor Canong, head sang Task Force on Moral and Values Formation (TFMVF), iya ginpahayag nga ginpahibalo na ang mga establisyemento sa una pa lang nga kinahanglan updated kag na-renew ang ila business permit, apang wala sang mga ini ma-comply ang final requirement sini.
Suno kay Canong, ginarequire nga i-renew sang mga negosyo ang ila permit kada tuig agud masiguro nga nagasunod ang mga ini sa mga regulasyon sang local government.
Dugang pa ni Canong nga obligasyon ini sang mga negosyante bilang ila fair share sa komunidad.
Ginpabutyag man sini nga dapat asikasuhon sang mga establisyemento ini nga requirement bisan gamay ukon dalagko man ang ila negosyo.
Samtang, ginpahayag man ni Canong nga nangin makanay-kanay ang pagbalik sang night life sa siyudad sang Iloilo halin sang Disyembre tubtob subong nga Marso.
Gin-athag niya nga padayon ang ila pagmonitor kaupod ang mga kapulisan agud masiguro ang seguridad sang mga tawo nga nagakadto sa mga nagakalain-lain nga komunidad.
Jeepney driver, nag-untat na sa byahe bangud sa pagtaas sang gatong
Nag-untat na sa byahe ang isa ka jeepney driver sa San Miguel, Iloilo bangud nga magamay nalang ang nagasakay nga pasahero sa iya ginamaneho nga jeep kag bangud man sa mas nagtaas nga presyo sang gatong nga nangin dako nga rason nga wala na halos sila sang ginakita.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Garry Sabinod, isa ka operator sang jeep kag temporaryo nga nangin driver, iya ginpahayag nga wala na sila halos sang madamo nga pasahero, apang nagdugang pa gid ang isa ka problema kaangay sang pagtaas sang presyo sang petrolyo.
Suno sa iya, kinahanglan nya gid nga magsakprisyo kag mangin temporary driver agud nga padayun ang pagbyahe sang iya nga jeep.
Ginpakigbahin man niya nga mabudlay man kun pagataasan ang pamasahe sang pampubliko nga mga salakyan bangud wala man sang pagtaas sa sweldo sang ila nga mga pasahero, samtang padayun naman nga nagataas ang mga presyo sang mga balaklon.
4-day work week sa tunga sang oil crisis?
Gintawag sang isa ka research group nga hapaw ang mga solusyon nga ginatanyag sang gobyerno sa tunga sang ginalantaw pagtimbuok sang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo bangud sang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East.
Ini kasunod sang mga panugyan halin sa gobyerno nga magkinot sa gatong, indi magkadto sa indi importante nga mga destinasyon, pahat-pahaton lang ang price hike, magpangita sang mga gas station nga may discount, kag may naga-suhestyon man sang pagpatuman sang four-day workweek kag online classes.
Kagab-i, Marso 6, ginmandu naman ni President Ferdinand ‘Bongbong’ Marcos, Jr.
four-day work week arrangement para sa mga ahensya nga yara sa idalom sang Executive Department umpisa sa Lunes, Marso 9.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay IBON Foundation Executive Director Jose Enrique “Sonny” Africa, iya ginpahayag nga bisan ihambal pa sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga gradual ukon hagan-haganon lang ang price hike, indi sini makakas ang tuman kabug-at nga palas-anon para sa mga Pilipino.
Pahayag sini, ang tanan nga solusyon sang gobyerno wala naga-ako sang ila responsibilidad.
Ginapanugyan naman sang research group ang pagkakas sang Value Added Tax (VAT) kag sang excise taxes sa fuel prices.
Suno kay Africa, kun kakason ini nga duha ka buwis sa oil prices, mapanubo ang presyo sang gasolina sang tubtub sa P16-17; mapanubo ang presyo sang diesel sang tubtub P13; kag mapanubo ang presyo sang kerosene sang tubtub P8.
Sa pihak nga bahin suno sa iya, kun magpadayon ang price hikes, ang gobyerno lamang ang maka-benepisyo bangud makaganar ini sang dugang nga P1.3 billion kada bulan sa VAT revenues halin lamang sa gasolina kag diesel.
Magluwas pa ini sa ginatos ka bilyones ka pesos nga nakuha na sang gobyerno halin sa VAT kag excise taxes sa existing oil prices.
Ginduso man sang IBON Foundation nga ihanda na ang subsidiya nga ihatag sa mga driver sang pampubliko nga salakyan agud nga barato gihapon ang pamasahe kag may kita gihapon ang mga driver.
Magluwas diri suno sa iya, dapat nga may ayuda man para sa mga mangunguma kag mga manugpangisda.
Sa tunga sang ginalantaw nga pagsaka sang inflation, ginapanugyan man sini ang paghatag sang subsidiya sa mga pigado.
Una naman nga ginsiling sang DOE nga makabulig sa paghagan-hagan sang fuel prices ang ginaduso nga paghatag sang Kongreso kay Marcos sang temporaryo nga awtoridad agud nga kakason ang excise taxes sa petroleum products.#
Barangay officials nga naaresto sa mga drug buy bust, ‘isolated cases’ lamang —IPPO
Gintawag sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO) nga isolated cases lamang ang sunod-sunod nga mga barangay officials sa probinsya nga nagkaladakpan sa mga drug buy bust operation.
Colonel Rolando Araño, spokesperson sang IPPO, iya ginpahayag nga bisan may mga naaresto, nagapabilin naman ang mayorya nga barangay officials nga aktibo sa ila trabaho kag nagakooperar sa mga pulis.
Suno pa kay Araño, indi man makaalarma ang kadamuon sang iligal nga droga nga nakumpiskar apisar nga minilyon ka pesos ang balor sini.
Pahayag sini, pamatuod lang ini nga aktibo sa pag-report sa pulis ang mga pumuluyo, gani nga nadakpan, kag napunggan nga madala ang droga sa target market ukon mga drug users.
Nahibaluan nga lakip sa naaresto sa drug buy bust sa Iloilo sang damlag lang amo ang tatlo ka mga punong barangay lakip ang isa halin sa Janiuay kag duha ang halin sa San Dionisio.
May yara man sang incumbent barangay kagawad, kag ang latest amo ang isa ka Sangguniang Kabataan Chairman nga nadakpan sang Pebrero.
Padayon naman ang kapulisan suno kay Araño sa ila nga monitoring kag pagpatigayon sang mga operasyon batok sa mga durugista.
May ginahanas man sila nga mga ido agud nga magamit nila sa mga drug buy bust, amo man sa checkpoint kag sa iban pa nga strategic locations.#
Israel, naglunsyar sang panibag-o nga mga pag-atake sa Lebanon kag Iran
Naglunsyar ang Israel sang panibag-o nga mga pag-atake sa Lebanon kag Iran sa ikapito nga adlaw ukon isa na ka semana sang gyera sa Middle East.
Ini ginkumpirmar sang Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) kahapon nga adlaw nga nagpatigayon sila sang lapnagon nga serye sang airstrikes sa capital sang Lebanon nga Beirut nga nagtarget sa mga lugar nga ginakabig base sang Hezbollah.
Lakip sa gin-atake amo ang mga command center kag pila ka panalgan sang mga building sa kapital, pati man ang pasilidad kun sa diin ginapamutang ang mga drone sang militante nga grupo nga ila ginagamit sa mga pag-atake batok sa mga tropa kag estado sang Israel.
Suno sa Israeli Defense Forces, nagalab-ot na sa 26 ka serye sang strikes ang ila ginlunsyar sa Dahiyeh area sang Lebanon nga kadam-an sang nagaestar amo ang mga Shia Muslim.
Ginatan-aw man sang Israel ang amo nga lugar bilang isa ka balwarte ukon kuta sang Hezbollah.
Bangod sini, nagsaka pa ang numero sang napatay sa mga pag-atake sang Israel sa Lebanon sini nga semana sa 123 ka tawo samtang 683 naman ang nasamaran, base sa datos sang Lebanese Ministry of Public Health.
Base man sa report sang Iranian state media, naglab-ot na sa 1,045 ang kabug-usan nga numero sang mga napatay sa Iran halin sang ginlunsyar ang joint attack sang Israel kag Estados Unidos.
ISUFST, nagapatuman na sang 4-day compressed workweek
Ini amo ang nangin resulta matapos ang ginpatigayon nga survey sa mga staff kag studyante sang ISUFST nga naga-ugyon sa pagpatuman sang 40-hour workweek kun sa diin ginre-organize ang schedule sang mga klase.
Herman Lagon, Director of the Public Affairs, Marketing, and Media Communications Office (PAMMCO), ISUFST, iya ginpahayag nga sa baylo sang nakaandan nga pagbalik-balik sa eskwelahan humalin lunes tubtob byernes, mangin lunes tubtob huwebes na lang ang klase kag opisina.
Matapos ang isa ka bulan nga implementasyon, nakabatun ini sang positibo nga feedback halin sa mga studyante kag sa mismo nga mga personnel sang unibersidad.
Suno pa kay Lagon, isa ka work efficient, cost-efficient kag may maayo nga resulta sa ikaayong lawas sa ila nga mga staff kag studyante ang nasambit nga 4 day compressed workweek.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Dr.
Jescel Bito-onon, Vice President for Administration and Finance sang ISUFST, iya gin-athag nga may ara sang nagasunod sa gihapon sa daan nga schedule nga mga staff sang farm, fishponds kag agricultural stations sang unibersidad bangud man sa ila ginabantayan nga mga livestocks.
Dugang pa niya nga madamo sila sang ginapang-ubra nga mga tikang antes nga maaprubahan sang board of regents ang nasambit nga 4 day compressed workweek
Masobra 1,000 ka mga OFWs sa Middle East, luyag na nga magbalik sa Pilipinas
Naglab-ot na sa 1,189 overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) ang naghingyo sang repatriation halin sa mga pungsod sa Middle East base sa datos sang Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) bangud sa nagapadayun nga gyera sang Iran, Israel, kag Unites States of America kun sa diin apektado ang mga kaingud sini nga mga lugar.
Ginpakigbahin ni OWWA administrator Patricia Yvonne Caunan nga sa pungsod sang Bahrain, yara sa 278 OFWs ang luyag na nga magpauli sa Pilipinas, 46 sa Israel, 62 halin sa Kuwait, 213 sa Dubai, 246 sa Abu Dhabi, 173 sa Qatar, kag lima naman sa Lebanon.
Suno kay Caunan, ginhatagan sang ahensya sang temporary accommodation ang 297 OFWs, samtang magapreparar naman sila sang land transportation para sa 171 ka mga Pilipino sa Middle East.
Naglab-ot naman sa 134 workers ang naghalin sa Visayas kag Mindanao ang nahatagan sang assistance sang ahensya para sa ila domestic flights agud magbalik na sa ila tagsa ka mga probinsya.
Padayun man ang paghatag sang bulig sang OWWA sa mga OFWs nga luyag na nga magpauli sa Pilipinas kag amo man sa mga nagakinahanglan sang iban pa nga bulig halin sa gobyerno.
Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas, hugot nga ginakondenar ang nangin pahayag ni Representative Jesus “Bong” Suntay batok sa aktres nga si Anne Curtis
Hugot nga ginakondenar ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang nangin pahayag ni Quezon City 4th District Representative Jesus “Bong” Suntay batok sa aktres nga si Anne Curtis sa ginpatigayon nga deliberasyon sang House Committee on Justice para sa impeachment complaints batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte, kun sa diin ginsal-ot ni Suntay ang iya kaugalingon nga imahinasyon.
Madumduman nga sa amo nga hearing, ginpakigahin ni Suntay nga nakit-an sini anay sa isa ka mall si Anne Curtis, kag bangud sa tuman sini nga katahum, nakabatyag ini sang “desire” suno sa iya kag na-“imagine” na lamang niya kun ano ang iya himuon sa amo nga actress.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga bilang isa ka babaye kag bilang mayor sang Iloilo City, indi siya pwede nga maghipos lamang sa amo nga pahayag bangud isa ini ka “unacceptable” nga pahayag kag wala ini sang lugar sa bisan ano nga public discourse.
Dugang pa sini nga ang kada tinaga sang isa ka public official ang may yara gid sang kabug-atun sa ano man nga tion, bisan pa hambalon nga isa lamang ini ka “imagination”.
Nagpangabay sa karun ang alkalde nga respetuhon ang tagsa ka kababaehan sa tanan nga ti-on.
Nagpanawagan man ini kay rep Suntay nga magpagua sang isa ka “sincere” public apology.
Progresibo nga grupo kag mga bolantero, nagpatigayun sang protesta sa atubang sang Iloilo City Hall agud ipanawagan ang paghatag sang nagakaigo nga pwesto sa tanan nga mga vendors sa pila ka merkado sa siyudad
Nagpatigayun sang hublag protesta sa atubang sang Iloilo City Hall ang pila ka mga progresibo nga grupo, lakip na ang pila ka mga bolantero sa Iloilo Terminal Market kag Iloilo Central Market.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jossel Gabuan, isa ka bulantera sa Iloilo Terminal Market, iya ginpahayag nga nagpromisa si Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Trenas sa ila nga pagahatagan sang nagakaigo nga pwesto ang tanan nga mga vendors nga wala makasulod sa Terminal Market, apang asta subong nagahulat sa gihapon sila sa katumanan sang amo nga promisa.
Suno pa sa iya nga nahulogan ini sang iya ginabusong sang tion nga nagpatigayun ang mga personnel sang city hall sa amo nga merkado sang clearing operation kag tuman gid ini kasakit sa iya bilang isa ka iloy, apang wala ini sang mahimo.
Gi-alegar man sini nga indi mayo ang pagtratar sa ila ni Local Economic Enterprise Office (LEEO) head Maricel Mabaquiao kag gina-harass sila sang mga personnel sang amo nga opisina.
Sa karun, nagapanawagan ang mga ini kay Mayor Trenas nga mabalik ang tanan nga mga vendors sa merkado kag mapahanugotan ang mga bolantero nga makabaligya sa palibot sang merkado sa natalana nga oras, lakip na ang pag-isyu sang “goodwill” kag iban pa nga mga balayran sa merkado.
Uldarico Garbanzos, iya man ginpaathag nga iya gid nahangpan ang mga panawagan sang bulantero apang ginadumilian na sa karun ang pagbaligya sa bisan diin lamang nga bahin sang dalanun sang siyudad, bangud posible ini magtuga sang huol sa dalagan sang trapiko.
Ginklaro man sini nga apisar may yara sila sang joint operation sa Iloilo Terminal kag Central Market, wala “nagapang-confiscate kag nagapang-harass” ang iya mga personnel.
Jeepney drivers sa Iloilo, nagapanghakroy sa pagtimbuok sang oil price
Nagapanghakroy na ang pila ka mga drivers bangud sa sunod-sunod nga pagtimbuok sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Robin Villaruz, driver sang jeep nga may ruta nga Leganes- Highway, iya ginpahayag nga tuman na kabudlay para sa ila ang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga pagpangabuhi bangud sa kamahal sang presyo sang gatong.
Suno kay Villaruz, haluson na sila makabakal sang ila kinahanglanon para sa ila pamilya bangud nagakadto na lang sa pagpatughong ang ila kita.
Pahayag pa niya, ini magluwas pa sa arkila sa salakyan nga ginabayaran nila adlaw-adlaw.
Suno sa iya, para sa isa ka driver nga wala na sang iban nga palangitan-an, tuman ka budlay ang ila sitwasyon subong.
Nagapangabay man ini nga kuntani makapatuman na sang pagsaka sa pletehan agud nga mabuhinan man ang pagpamigado sang mga ordinaryo nga drivers kaangay niya.
Provisional fare hike, posible ipatuman kun maglab-ot na sa P60/liter ang presyo sang diesel
Posible nga aprubahan ang provisional fare hike para sa tanan nga pampubliko nga transportasyon pananglitan maglab-ot sa P60 kada litro ang presyo sang diesel ukon krudo.
Suno ini kay Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) Chairman Vigor Mendoza samtang nga ginaantisipar na ang epekto sang nagapadayon nga gyera sa Middle East.
Suno kay Mendoza, ini nga tikang ang makabulig nga mapahagan-hagan ang palas-anon sang public utility vehicle (PUV) drivers kag operators, samtang ginakonsiderar man ang ikaayo sang mga pasahero.
Pananglitan magtahaw na ang tension sa Middle East kag magnubo naman ang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo, iga-withdraw man ukon bawion gilayon ang pagpasaka sa plete.
Gin-athag sini nga indi man nila luyag nga sukton sang mahal ukon i-overcharge ang mga pasahero.
Ginpasalig man sang chairman nga ang una nga himuon sang ahensya amo ang paghatag sang fuel subsidies sa PUVs sa baylo nga magpasaka sang plete.
Handa na ang LTFRB suno sa iya sa pag-umpisa sa pag-release sang subsidiya kun maglab-ot na ang presyo sang Dubai crude oil sa $80 per barrel.
“As soon as the funds are out, ibaba na kaagad namin yan.
Ang hinihintay lang nila, araw, hindi lingo.”#
Iloilo NHS, nagpatigayon sang assessment matapos makitaan sang litik ang pila ka mga building
Nagpatigayon sang assessment ang administrasyon sang Iloilo National High School, sa La Paz, Iloilo City matapos makitaan sang litik ang pila ka mga building bangud sang linog nga natabo kahapon, Marso 2.
Bangud sini, ginsuspend ang klase kag nagdesisyon ang pamunuan nga indi anay pagpabalikon ang mga estudyante sa eskwelahan para sa patigayunon nga inspeksyon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Delorah Fantillo, Principal IV sang nasambit nga buluthuan, iya ginpahayag nga wala man sang dako nga kabalak-an bangud wala man sang dalagko nga litik nga nakita sa mga istruktura sang eskwelahan.
Suno pa sa iya, na-manage man ang sitwasyon kag ginpatuman gilayon ang nagakaigo nga safety measures para sa proteksyon sang mga estudyante kag personnel.
Sa karon, nakadesisyon na ang eskwelahan nga magabalik na sa normal ang klase buwas nga adlaw, Marso 4 matapos makompleto ang assessment kag masiguro nga safe na ang mga pasilidad sang eskwelahan.
Mga menor de edad, nagpakasal sa Marawi City
Madamo ang nagtaas ang kilay sa natabo nga pagpakasal sang duha ka menor de edad sa Marawi City.
Natigayon ang seremonya sang kasal sang Pebrero 14, 2026.
Apisar nga ginapakigbato sang pila sa mga Maranao nga kabahin ini sang tradisyon nga kilala bilang “Parental Marriage”, may mga sektor nga nagpabutyag sang kabalaka sa epekto sini sa kabataan.
Ginsiling sang mga child rights advocates nga apisar kabahin ini sang kultura, may maathag nga limitasyon ang tradisyon.
Gintumod sang grupo ang nasaad sa Republic Act No.
11596 kun sa diin ginadumilian ang pag-asawahay sang mga bata nga wala pa nakalab-ot sa 18-anyos bisan pa may pahanugot sang komunidad ukon sang ila mismo ginikanan.
Facade sang Iloilo Central Market, nakitaan sang paglitik ang matapos ang magnitude 4.8 nga linog kagab-i
Nakitaan sang paglitik ang facade sang Iloilo Central Market matapos ang magnitude 4.8 nga linog kagab-i.
Nagalab-ot sa ginabulubanta isa ka metro ang kalabaon sang amo nga litik, lakip na ang mga hairline cracks nga makit-an sa nauna nga bahin sini.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Eduardo Elito, isa ka helper sa isdaan sang central market, iya ginpahayag nga wala pa sang mga litik nga nakit-an ang mga ini kahapon nga adlaw sa amo nga bahin sang central public market.
Matapos ang mabaskog nga linog kagab-i, natalupangdan lang nila ang amo nga mga litik kaina sang aga samtang ang mga ini ang nagapangape sa isa ka bakery sa tabok sang amo nga merkado.
Sa karun, ginbutangan na lamang sang barikada sa amo nga bahin sang nasambit nga merkado, agud malikawan ang mga kahalitan nga possible dala sang amo nga mga litik.
Madumdoman nga ginbuksan ang nasambit nga merkado sang Oktubre 30,2025.
PHIVOLCS, nag-revise sang data, ginklaro nga sa Guimbal ang sentro sang 4.8 magnitude nga linog
Gin-revise sang Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) ang impormasyon nga ginpaguwa sini kaangot sa linog nga nabatyagan sa Iloilo kag sa kaiping nga mga probinsya kagab-i, Marso 2.
Sa Earthquake Information 2 sang ahensya, ginklaro nga ang sentro sang linog amo ang Guimbal, Iloilo — baliskad sa nauna sini nga gin-report nga Tigbauan.
Ginpanubo man sang ahensya ang magnitude sa 4.8 halin sa nauna sini nga data nga magnitude 5.0 ang kabaskugon sang pagtay-og.
6:13 sang nagluntad ang linog kag tectonic in origin.
Yari naman ang updated nga gin-report nga intensities:
Ginklaro man sang ahensya nga wala na sang ginaantisipar pa nga aftershocks kag damages kasunod sang amo nga pagtay-og.#
Mayor Treñas, ginakabig nga milestone ang ASEAN meetings nga ginpatigayon sa syudad sang Iloilo
Ginakabig nga isa ka milestone ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang ginpatigayon nga 49th High-Level Task Force on ASEAN Economic Integration sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantillaga-Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga na-apresyar gid sang syudad sang Iloilo ang major international engagement nga natabo sa tunga sang nagakalain-lain nga mga pungsod nga nagpadulong diri sa syudad.
Suno pa kay Gorzal, ang pag-showcase sang ikasarang sang syudad sa pag-host sang kaangay nga meeting nagapakita lamang nga masarangan na sini nga mag-akomodar sang madamo kag kaangay man sini nga mga meetings.
Dugang pa ni Gorzal bangud sini nagpromisa ang ASEAN representatives nga iga-link ang economic community sang Iloilo sa Agoda team nga magabulig pasangkad a turismo sang syudad kag mabutang ang mga produkto sa global market.
Naga-ekspektar man ang syudad nga mas mapabaskog ang sini ang regional partnerships kag mapasangkad ang investment kag mga oppurtunida agud mahatagan man sang trabaho ang mga Ilonggo.
Mall goer sa Pavia, naglingin ang ulo kag ginkulbaan bangud sa linog
Naglingin ang ulo kag ginkulbaan ang isa ka mall goer sa syudad sang Iloilo matapos nga ma-eksperyensyahan ang linog nga nagluntad kagab-i Marso 2.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Regina Lencioco, isa ka mall goer, iya ginpahayag nga natingala na lang ini nga nagtay-og ang palibot sini kag gilayon na lang ini nga nagpungko.
Suno pa sa iya nga mabatyagan gid ang linog bangud naga-uyog gid ini.
Dugang pa sini nga apisar nga wala ini nagdugay ginhadlukan man ini bangud basi marusdak ang building nga iya nahamtangan kun magdugay pa.
Nahibaluan nga gintay-og ang Iloilo kahapon nga adlaw Marso 2 kaupod ang kaipi man sini nga mga probinsya bangud sa Magnitude 5 nga linog sa Tigbauan, Iloilo suno pa PHIVOLCS.
Apang, sang ulihi gin-islan sang DOST-PHIVOLCS nga ang natabo kagab-i nga linog ang magnitude 4.8 lamang kag indi magnitude 5 kag ang tectonic origin sini amo ang naghalin sa Guimbal kag indi sa banwa sang Tigbauan, Iloilo.
Former PDRRMO head, gin-eksplikar ang natabo nga linog kagab i, Marso 2
Jerry “Daklod” Bionat nga ang linog nga naeksperyensyahan kahapon, Marso 2, ang bangud sa West Panay Fault Line.
Sa interview sag Bombo Radyo kay Bionat, iya ginpahayag nga isa ini ka active fault line gani nagakatabo ang pagtay-og sang duta sa idalom sini sa wala mahibaluan nga tion.
Suno pa kay Bionat, ginatudlo man ini nga rason kun ngaa permi nagakatabo ang linog sa mga kabanwahanan sang Premier distrito ilabi na sa banwa sang Tigbauan, Guimbal, San Joaquin kag Igbaras.
Ginsaysay man ni Bionat nga ang ini nga fault line amo ang ginatawag nga strike-slip fault, kun sa diin nagaligdasanay ang duha ka trench sang duta sa palibot sang 10 ka kilometro ang kadalumon.
Dugang pa sini nga bangud nga manabaw ang kadalumon sang linog, mas mabaskog ang mabatyagan sini sa kadutaan.
Nag-abiso man ang anay head sang PDRRMO nga magahalong kag magpreparar bangud wala mahibalui kun masundan pa ini nga linog.
Pila ka mga buluthuan sa syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo, nagsuspende sang klase subong nga Marso 2
Nag-anunsyo ang pila ka mga buluthuan sa syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo subong nga adlaw Marso 3 nga magasupende ang mga ini sang klase bangud man sang madali apang mabaskog nga linog nga nagluntad kagab-i.
Yari ang listahan sang mga nagdeklarar sang class suspension:
Sa syudad sang Iloilo, nag-kanselar sang klase ang Iloilo National High School, University of San Agustin (all levels) kag ISAT-U Main Campus (all levels).
Sa probinsya naman sang Iloilo nagdeklarar man ang mga banwa sang Oton, Tubungan all levels kag bilog nga adlaw, samtang sa Guimbal, Tigbauan kag ISAT-U Miagao Campus suspende ang klase sa aga lamang kag magabalik ini sa hapon depende sa ila mga Local Government Units.
Nahibaluan nga bangud sa linog nga nagtay-og kahapon sa Guimbal Iloilo, ginpakamaayo nalang sang iban nga buluthuan sa syudad kag Probinsya sang Iloilo nga ikanselar anay ang klase kag mag-shift sa Alternative Delivery Mode of Learning.
Sa bahin naman sang syudad sang Iloilo, nagpahayag si Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas sa mga school administrators sa mga pampubliko kag pribado nga mga eskwelahan sa siudad nga magpatigayon sang inspection sa ila mga establisyamento.
Suno kay Treñas, magadepende man sa assessment sang mga school administrators kun ila isuspende ang mga face-to-face classes sa tagsa ka mga buluthuan sa siudad.
Nahibaluan nga may ara man sang nakit-an nga mga minor cracks sa pila ka mga establisyamento sa siudad sang Iloilo.
East Baluarte, Molo, hugot nga ginapatuman ang ‘No parking’ ordinance sa ila mga dalanon
Hugot sa gihapon nga ginapatuman sang Brgy.
East Baluarte, Molo, Iloilo City ang ila ordinansa nahanungod sa No parking sa mga dalanon sa ila lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay John Garry Patnubay sang nasambit nga barangay, iya ginpahayag nga may ara man sila sang ginapatigayon nga road clearing operations agud malikawan ang pag-park sang mga salakyan ilabi na sa mga mayor nga mga karsada sa ila barangay.
Suno kay Patnubay, luyag man nila nga magpangayo sang bulig sa Iloilo City Government kun may ara gid sang mga masabad nga mga nagapanag-iya sang salakyan.
Ginpakigbahin man sang Punong Barangay nga may ara sang penalidad ang magalapas sa ila ordinansa:
Suno pa sa iya, ini nga ordinansa ang may dako nga bulig sa ila barangay in kaso nga may ara sang magluntad nga mga insidente kaangay sunog agud indi mabudlayan ang mga bombero.
Dugang pa sang Punong Barangay nga mas maayo nga may ara gid sang parking area ang mga private car owners agud nga indi mag-obstruct ang ila nga mga salakyan sa mga dalanon.
128 ka mga OFW halin sa probinsya sang Iloilo, apektado sang gyera sa Middle East
May record nga 128 ka mga Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) ang Public Employment Services Office (PESO) Province of Iloilo, nga mga apektado sang nagapadayon nga kinagamo sa Middle East.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Cynthia Dario, head sang PESO-Iloilo Province, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga mga OFWs amo ang yara sa United Arab Emirates (UAE), Qatar, Dubai, kag Kuwait.
Suno kay Dario, halin sa mga banwa sang Pototan, Calinog, San Enrique, kag Guimbal ang yara sa ‘Unsafe Status’ bangud sa mga nabatian sang mga ini nga linupok malapit sa ila lugar.
nga indi na maghulat sa datos sang Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) kag Department of Migrant Workers (DMW) kag direkta nalang nga magpakig-angut sa mga pamilya sang OFWs sa probinsya pinaagi sa mga Municipal kag Barangay PESO subong man ang pag-activate sang emergency hotlines.
Ginalauman nga magasaka pa ang numero sang mga OFWs nga magapakig-angot sa opisina bangud padayon pa ang pagbaslanay sang mga pungsod sa Middle East.
PESO-Iloilo City, padayun sa pagmonitor sa mga Ilonggo OFWs
Padayun ang pagmonitor sang Public Employment and Services Office (PESO) Iloilo City sa 119 ka mga Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) sa mga pungsod sa Middle East nga apektado sang gyera sang Iran, United States of America kag Israel.
Base sa ila datos, may ara sang 17 ka mga Ilonggo OFWs sa Israel, 2 sa pungsod sang Oman, 28 sa Qatar, 6 ka OFWs sa United Arab Emirates, 1 sa Bahrain, 32 sa Kuwait, 29 sa Saudi Arabia kag 4 sa Jerusalem.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Gab Umadhay, head sang PESO-Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga naga-coordinate sila sa Department of Migrant Workers agud ila mahibaluan ang kahimtangan sang mga OFW sa luwas sang pungsod.
Suno kay Umadhay, nagpahayag man ang mga Ilonggo OFW nga yara man sila sa maayo nga sitwasyon bangud ginapasiguro man sang ila nga kompanya kag employer nga hilway sila sa katalagman.
Ginpahayag man sini nga nagahatag man ang ila opisina sang financial assistance para sa mga distressed OFWs nga nagalab-ot sa P15,000 kag may ara man sang ginahatag nga livelihood programs, start-up programs nga nagakab-ot sa P10,000-30,000 depende sa negosyo nga ila umpisahan.
Dugang pa ni Umadhay nga nagapasalig sila sa mga apektado nga mga OFWs nga kun mapinsaran sang mga ini nga mag-repatriate, may ara sang mahatag nga bulig ang syudad sang Iloilo.
Presyo sang produktong petrolyo, magataas sang Piso subong nga semana
Magataas sang halos piso ang presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo sa subong nga semana.
Ini matapos gin-anunsyo sang mga retailer subong nga adlaw ang pagtaas sang presyo, kasunod sang tensyon sa tunga sang Estados Unidos kag Iran.
Gasolina: Posible nga magsaka sang ₱1.90 kada litro Diesel: Posible nga magsaka sang ₱1.20 kada litro Kerosene: Posible nga magsaka sang ₱1.50 kada litro
Ipatuman ang amo nga mga pagtaas sang presyo sa Martes sang aga.
Jeepney driver sa Tubungan, wala ginlimitahan ang kaugalingon sa pagdiskubre sang iya mga ikasarang
Wala ginlimitahan sang isa ka jeepney driver halin sa Tubungan, Iloilo ang iya kaugalingon sa pag-diskubre sang iya mga ikasarang
Paagi sa nagkalain-lain nga trabaho, iya gingamit ang iya mga abilidad agud mapalapad pa ang iya ihibalo sa mga nagkalain-lain nga obra.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Chris Salinas Plotena, isa ka driver, registered criminologist, civil service eligible, certified safety officer kun kaisa konduktor, dispatcher, kag sa masunod nga bulan matapos na sa iya public administration, iya ginpahayag nga madamo sang mga tawo ang nag-motivate sa iya agud nga mag-pursue sang nagkalain-lain nga bagay nga masarangan sini.
Suno pa sa iya nga ginapangitaan gid sini sang paagi nga mapasulod ang iya ginpangtun-an sa iya mga hilig agud magamit man sini sa pagpangita sang obra.
Ginpahayag pa sini nga wala nagapabaya ang Ginoo bangud ginaubayan gid sini ang mga tawo sa pagtuman sang ila nga mga handom sang amat-amat lang.
Nagbilin man ini sang pahanumdom sa kaangay man sini nga driver nga kun may ara sang opportunidad indi dapat magkahadlok nga mag-try agud makabulig man sa ini sa ila kaugalingon nga magsangkad.
”Gin-suspend temporaryo ang Ramadan celebrations sa Qatar bangud sa pagpang-atake”- Bombo correspondent sa Qatar
Ginpakigbahin ni Bombo correspondent Joseph Timothy Rivera sang Qatar nga sa ginpatigayon nga joint press conference kagab-i sang Defense Ministry ginklaro sang mga ini nga preparado ang pwersa sang pungsod pareho sang ila nga military defense-wise kag sa pagdepensa sang pungsod.
Suno kay Rivera, iya ginpahayag nga gin-gunshot down ang airspace kag wala anay sang bisan sin-o nga makasulod sa nasambit nga pungsod.
Ang Qatari government naghatag man sang advisories nga indi pagpuluton ang mga debris sa palibot bangud may posibilidad nga makatuga ini sang insidente.
Tungod man sang sitwasyon, ginsuspend ang face-to-face classes sa mga eskwelahan kag ginpadayon anay ini online.
Ang gobyerno sang Qatar nagapanawagan man sa publiko nga magpabilin nga kalmado kag magsunod sa mga safety instructions samtang ginamonitor ang sitwasyon.
Mga estudyante nga nag-champion sa Radio drama sa RASUC 6, nagbisita sa Bombo Radyo Iloilo
Handa na nga mag-compete ang mga estudyante nagikan sa College of Communication sang West Visayas State University (WVSU) sa patigayunon nga national competetion sa Radio Drama nga patigayunon diri sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Ang grupo ginabug-usan nanday Arcel Vinz Agudo, Adrian Dave Dario, Marian Gamala, Charisse Lemoncito, kag Roxanne Faye Obero, upod ang ila coach nga si Professor Raffy Galan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Professor Galan, iya ginpakigbahin nga madamo sang pagpanghangkat ang ila nga mga naagyan apang pursigido ang grupo nga mangin maayo ang resulta sang ila kompetesyon gani todo man sila sa pagbuhat sang mga dapat nga buhaton.
Sa karon ila na ginapreparahan ang national competition bangud sila ang magarepresentar sang Western Visayas sa Philippine Culture in Arts Festival and Conference PASUC nga pagahiwaton sa Abril 8-11, 2026.
Suno pa sa iya nga bangud man sa pagbinuligay sang grupo nangin mapag-on ang resulta sang ila tagsa ka performances nga ila ginapakigbahin sa mga tawo.
Dugang pa sini nga paagi sa kalidad nga pagpraktis kag madamo nga preparasyon handa na ang grupo nga itiglawas ang Western Visayas sa national competition.
Gin-athag sang isa ka dermatologist nga ang psoriasis isa ka kondisyon sa panit nga hereditary ukon naghalin sa ginikanan kag indi makalalaton sa iban nga tawo.
Rosita Conducta, iya ginpahayag nga indi dapat pagkahadlukan ang kaangay sini nga sakit sa panit bangud sa insakto nga pag-atipan magaayo ini.
Nagpaandaman man ini nga kun magtubo ini sa panit indi dapat pagkuhaon bangud may posibilidad ini nga mag grabe ang iritasyon kag impeksyon ilabi na kon indi mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga pag-atipan.
Conducta nga importante nga ma-kontrol ang stress factor bangud isa ini sa nagapagrabe sang sintomas sang psoriasis.
Kun may makita nga gamay pa lang nga sintomas, mas maayo nga magpakonsulta na gilayon sa isa ka affiliated dermatologist agud malikawan ang paglala sang kondisyon.
Lakip man sa iya rekomendasyon ang pagmintinar sang balanse nga pagkaon nga may yara sang prutas kag utanon, bangud dako ang bulig sini sa lawas kag pagpanubo sang inflammation.
Importante man ang regular nga paggamit sang lotion ukon moisturizer agud malikawan ang sobrang pagkamala sang panit.
Produksyon sang baboy kag manok sa Western Visayas, nagtaas sang 2025, suno sa datos sang PSA
Nagtaas ang produksyon sang baboy kag manok sa Western Visayas sang 2025, suno sa datos sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA).
Nagsaka sang 2% ang produksyon sang baboy kag 8.6% naman ang manok.
May pagsaka man sa produksyon sang Pato kag itlog sang manok.
Nagnubo naman ang produksyon sang karbaw, baka, kag kanding kumparar sang nagligad nga tuig.
Naka-record man sang pagnubo sa numero sang mga kasapatan sa mga slaughterhouse sa rehiyon.
Seaman nga other man sang asawa nga nadakpan nga nagsulod sa lodging house sa La Paz, kasado man
Napirmahan na sa Iloilo City Police Station 2 ang mga dokumento agud nga matigayon na nga mapasakaan sang kaso nga adultery ang asawa sang Civil Engineer kag other man sini nga nagsulod sa isa ka lodging house sa La Paz, Iloilo City kahapon nga adlaw, Pebrero 27.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay PCapt.
Gimel Acuesta, hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station 2, iya ginpahayag nga nagbinutig pa ang seaman nga single ini apisar nga kasado man ini sang 12 na ka tuig sa iya asawa kag ginapahayag nga may anak naman ini.
Nahibaluan nga una na nga nagpahayag ang seaman nga ginhinago sa pangalan nga ”alyas Jun” nga wala siya makahibalo nga kasado si alyas Lin.
Kaina lamang sang aga, may nagpakilala sa Iloilo City Police Station 2 bilang asawa ni alyas Jun.
Sa karon, nagaproseso naman ang seaman nga mapyansa ini sa kaso nga ginpasaka batok sa iya.
Nahibaluan nga pursigido gid ang Civil Engineer nga bana sang online teacher nga magpasaka sang kaso.
Nagalay-lay nga kuryente, mabug-at nga problema sa pagresponde kun may sunog
Ginakabig man nga isa sa mabug-at nga problema sang pila ka mga punong barangay sa syudad sang Iloilo ang huol nga dala sang mga nagalay-lay nga kuryente.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay John Garry Patnubay sang Barangay East Baluarte, Molo, Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga magluwas sa makitid nga mga dalan nga nagapabudlay sa pagsulod sang fire trucks kag iban pa nga emergency vehicles sa lugar nagatuga man sang peligro kag nagadisturbo nga linya sang kuryente sa lugar.
Gindugang man niya ang problema sa wire sang telecommunication companies (telco), bangud may mga kable nga nagawayway kag nagalapta, nga mahimo mangin risgo indi lamang sa sunog kundi pati sa iban pa nga aksidente.
Bilang preparasyon sa sunog, naka-install na ang barangay sang dry stand pipe agud may madali nga makuhaan sang tubig kun may ara sang emerhensya kaangay sang sunog.
Ginapanawagan man ni Patnubay sa mga residente nga indi magpatigayon sang illegal nga koneksyon sa kuryente kag magbuligay sa pagmentinar sang maayo nga paggamit sini.
Dugang pa sini nga bisan pa indi Fire Prevention Month, ginahangkat sini ang tanan nga magpadayon sa paghalong kag magmabinantayon agud malikawan ang sunog kag iban pa nga disgrasya sa ila lugar.
Barangay Calumpang Molo, I.C, naga-preparar na para sa Fire Prevention Month
Nagapreparar na ang Barangay Calumpang, Molo Iloilo City may kaangtanan sa Fire Prevention Month nga magasugod na buwas nga bulan sang Marso.
Ini agud malikawan ang sunog pananglitan magluntad sa lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Lolita Maprangala, Punong Barangay sang Barangay Calumpang, Molo Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga may yara sang ginabulubanta 2,000 ka mga panimalay sa ila lugar kag kadam-an diri ang nagatinupaday gani kinahanglan gid nga maghanda.
Ginakabig man nga ang makitid nga dalanon ang isa sa problema sang barangay bangud wala man sang nagakaigo nga parkingan ang mga salakyan nga ginapanag-iyahan sang mga residente.
Ini magaresulta sang kabudlayan sa mga bombero pananglitan kinahanglan nga magresponde kun may magluntad nga sunog sa lugar.
Dugang pa diri may yara man sang isyu may kaangtanan sa deed of donation kun sa diin kinahanglan kuntani sang dugang nga space sa dalan para mapamaayo sa tion sang pagresponde.
Ginpahayag man ni Maprangala nga ginatudluan man sini ang iya mga pumuluyo sa pagpatigayon sang “Bayanihan system” agud magbuligay ang mga ini kun may emerhensya.
Padayon naman ang panawagan sang BFP sa publiko nga magbinantayon kag mangin responsable agud malikawan ang sunog, labi na sa mga barangay nga ginakabig nga fire-prone.
Nahibaluan nga suno sa Bureau of Fire Protection Iloilo City nga 125 sa kabug-usan nga 180 ka mga barangay sa Iloilo City ang ginakabig nga fire-prone ukon mataas ang risgo sa sunog.
Bangud sini, ginaduso sang ahensya ang mas hugot nga kampanya sa fire prevention, labi na subong nga magasugod na ang Fire Prevention Month sa bulan sang Marso.
Nagbalik na sa ila nga mga pwesto ang pila ka mga street vendors sa Plazoleta Gay matapos ang mga ini ang ginpangabay sang city government nga indi anay magplastar bangud sa ginhiwat nga ASEAN meeting sa syudad suno sa mga vendor.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Rosalyn, isa sa mga street vendor, iya ginpahayag nga may ara sang nagpalapit sa ila sang nagligad nga semana kag naghingyo ini nga indi anay sila magbaligya sa adlaw sang Huwebes, Pebrero 26, bangud may ara sang maga-abot nga mga bisita.
Suno man sa iya, wala man naglain ang iya buot bangud naintindihan niya ang sitwasyon kag ang ila kahimtangan nga mga sidewalk vendors.
Ginpakigbahin man ni Rosalyn nga ini ang una nga beses nga nagpalapit ang city government sa ila agud nga indi anay magbaligya.
Madumduman nga ang Iloilo City amo ang host sang 49th meeting sang High-Level Task Force on ASEAN Economic Integration sa idalom sang Association of Southeast Asian Nations, nga ginhiwat halin Pebrero 25 tubtob 27.
BFP, nagpahanumdom sang importansiya sang paglikaw sa sunog
Nagpahanumdom ang Bureau of Fire Protection sang importansiya sang paglikaw sa sunog ilabi na sa nagahilapit nga Fire Prevention Month sa Marso.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Senior Fire Officer 4 Maria Joy Denaga, Acting Chief Admin sang Iloilo City Fire Station, iya ginpakigbahin ang mga kinahanglan nga mga ubrahun agud malikaw sa mga fire incident:
*Kinahanglan nga napatay ang mga appliances kun matulog na ukon may kadtuan
*Mangin responsable sa paggamit sang kandila
*Siguraduhon nga indi pagbayaan ang ginaluto sa kusina
*Kinahanglan nga matinlo kag wala sang lapta sa sulod sang balay
*Dapat may ara sang plano nga fire exit ang isa ka pamilya sa ila puluy-an
Suno pa kay Denaga, ila man nga ginasiguro nga kun may ara sang nagaluntad nga sunog, indi lang ang BFP ang first responder.
Ini bangud sa ila Oplan Ligtas na Pamayanan Program, tinutuyo nila nga hatagan sang training ang mga barangay sa siudad agud ila mahibal-an ang mga nagakadapat nga mga tikang agud matapna kag malikawan ang sunog.
Special Investigation Team, gintukod agud imbestigaran ang pagpatay sa punong barangay sa San Joaquin
Ginalauman nga mapasaka ang mapag-on nga kaso batok sa suspek ukon mga suspek nga nagtiro-patay sa punong barangay sang Ginot-an, San Joaquin, Iloilo.
Kahapon sang kaagahon, Pebrero 26, sang nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi kag may igu sang bala sa dughan si Punong Barangay Richard Sapalo, 53.
Kasunod sang amo nga hitabo, nagmandu si Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO) Director Police Colonel Bayani Razalan sa pagtukod sang Provincial Special Investigation Team ukon PSIT Sapalo agud nga matutukan ang kaso.
Colonel Rolando Araño, spokesperson sang IPPO, iya ginpahayag nga tuyo sang team nga mapadasig kag mapadalman ang imbestigasyon agud matukiban ang suspek kag mapasakaan sang kaso.
Gina-usisa sang kapulisan ang madamo nga anggulo lakip na ang posibilidad nga naangot sa trabaho ang krimen, ukon ang posibilidad nga may daan nga hiligut-anon sa tunga sang suspek kag biktima.
Una na nga ginpahayag nga nakabaton na ang biktima sang pagpamahog sadtong bisperas sang Bag-ong Tuig.
May nabatian sa frequency sang handset radio sang barangay nga may nagsiling nga “Happy Condolence kay Kap Sapalo” apang wala sang may nakahibalo kun sin-o ang nagpadala sang amo nga mensahe.
Nahibaluan nga natabo ang pagpatay sa biktima sa adlaw mismo sang iya ika-53 nga kaadlawan.#
Suspek sa pagpatay sa punong barangay sa San Joaquin, posible nga yara lang sa palibot —pulis
Ginakonsiderar sang San Joaquin Municipal Police Station ang posibilidad nga yara lang sa palibot ang suspek nga nagtiro-patay sa punong barangay sang Ginot-an, San Joaquin, Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Isagani Tabares, hepe sang San Joaquin Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga base sa ila pagpangusisa, pamilyar ang suspek sa balay sang biktima.
Ginalantaw nga naglabay ini sa likod nga porsyon sang balay bangud naghilay na ang cyclone fence kag may nakit-an man nga tapak sang tiil.
Nag-agi ang suspek sa kusina, nagdiretso sa kwarto sang biktima, didto na ini ginluthang, kag nagguwa liwat sa kun diin ini nag-agi pasulod.
Suno sa pulis, gina-isa-isa nila sa pagpamangkot ang mga kasilingan agud nga makabulig sa ila nga imbestigasyon.
Kuha ang mga laragway sang nagpangampanya si Robrero sa Iloilo City.
Isa si Defensor sa mga opisyal sa Iloilo nga nagsuporta kay Robredo sa amo nga presidential run.
If we did it four years ago, we are ready to do it all over again,” caption sang kongresista sa iya nga post nga naka-tag pa kay Robredo.
Positibo naman nga mga komento ang ginbilin sa post sang mamalidha, kag may iban nga nagapamangkot kag nag-share nga may caption kun “sign” ukon “hint” na bala ang ginahatag sini ilabi na nga gina-istoryahan na ang 2028 elections.
Myembro si Defensor sang National Unity Party ukon NUP.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, nagpaguwa ang NUP sang statement nga pirmado sang ila secretary general nga si Reginald Velasco nga indi magboto ang ila partido pabor sa impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte, bangud wala sang nakit-an nga bag-o nga ebidensya nga gin-presentar sa apat ka bag-o nga complaints nga gin-file sa Kamara.
Naghatag naman sang iya paathag si Defensor nga indi sini pag-ilisan ang iya pagpanindugan sa impeachment batok sa vice president apisar sang statement sang NUP.
2 ka kabataan sang isa ka drug personality, dakop sa buy bust operation
Arestado ang duha ka kabataan sang isa ka drug personality sa ginpatigayon nga buybust operation sang Iloilo City Drug Enforcement Unit (CDEU) sa Zone 1, Brgy.
Bakhaw, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, kahapon nga adlaw, Pebrero 26.
Ang main subject amo si alyas ‘AJ’, 20-anyos, kag isa ka contruction worker kaupod ang iya magulang nga si alyas “Batwan”, 21-anyos kag isa ka Passenger Assistant Officer (PAO).
Nakuha sa mga ini ang 14 ka sachet sang iligal nga druga ng ginabulubanta masobra 280 grams kag may standard drug price nga P1,904,000.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Roque Gimeno III, officer in charge sang Iloilo City Drug Enforcement Unit, iya ginpahayag nga nadakpan sang nagligad lang nga tuig ang amay sang duha sa kapareho man nga kaso kag nagapabilin nga preso sa Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) sa Nanga, Pototan.
Sa subong, yara na sa kustodiya sang ICPS 10 ang mga nadakpan nga mga indibidwal kag posible magapangatubang sang kaso nga pagpalapas sa Republic Act 9165 ukon Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
Engineering student, patay matapos gina-alegar nga natiruhan ang iya kaugalingon
Patay ang isa ka Engineering student matapos gina-alegar nga natiruhan sini ang iya mismo kaugalingon sa sulod sang ila balay pasado alas-3 kahapon sang hapon, Pebrero 26, sa Barangay South Fundidor, Molo, Iloilo City.
Ginkilala ang biktima kay alyas Boy, 21-anyos kag isa ka 3rd year engineering student kag isahanun man nga bata sang iya ginikanan.
Base man sa pagpang-usisa sang Bombo Radyo sa insidente, nagaisahanun lang si alyas Boy sa ila puluy-an sang natiruhan sini ang iya kaugalingon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Inday isa sa mga malapit sa balay sang biktima, iya ginpahayag nga wala man sila sang nabatian nga paglupok sang pusil bangud man nga may ara sang ongoing nga construction sa isa ka malapit nga balay.
Apang suno man sa iya, may nabatian sila nga isa ka matunog nya syagit halin sa balay ni Alyas Boy.
Sa subong, nagapadayun pa ang imbestigasyon sang mga awtoridad agud matumod gid ang matuod nga natabo.
Councilor Mabilog, ginkakibot nga wala ginsuportahan kag ginbasura sang mayorya ang ginduso nya nga resolusyon
Councilor Mabilog, ginkakibot nga wala ginsuporthan kag ginasura sang mayorya ang ginduso nya nga resolusyon
Ginkakibot ni Iloilo City Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog nga wala ginsuportahan kag ginbasura sang mayorya ang iya ginduso nga resolution nga naga-commend kuntani kay Iloilo City Vice Mayor Lady Julie Grace “Love-Love” Baronda matapos ini nga gin-eleher nga Chairwoman sang National Movement of Young Legislators (NMYL).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga bugal gid sang siudad ang pagdaug ni Baronda sa amo nga posisyon sa national nga lebel.
Si Baronda amo ang nakabatun sang 921 votes, samtang 145 votes lang ang nabatun sang representate halin sa Ilocos Norte nga iya kontra para sa chairmanship.
Nahibaluan nga ang bise alcalde sang Iloilo amo ang labing una nga babayi sa Visayas nga nakaangkon sang nasambit nga pwesto.
Wala naman ginkakibot ni Vice Mayor Love Baronda ang desisyon sang konseho nga ibasura ang resolusyon nga gin-file ni Councilor Mabilog.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga wala man siya nagalagas sang recognition bangud ang pagserbe lang sang maayo sa publiko ang iya prayoridad.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa mga naghatag sa iya sang kahiyagunan nga magpanguna bilang chairwoman sang nasambit nga organisasyon.
168 sa 180 ka mga Barangay sa siudad sang Iloilo, wala nakapasa sang 2026 Annual Budget
Naglab-ot sa 93% ukon 168 sa 180 ka mga Barangay sa siudad sang Iloilo ang wala nakapasa sang ila tagsa ka 2026 Annual Budget.
Sa privilege speech ni Committee Chairman on Appropriations-Councilor Rex Marcus Sarabia, iya ginpahayag nga magluwas subong nga 2026, may ara man sang 33 ka mga barangay sa siudad ang wala nakapasa sang ila annual budget sa mga nagligad nga tuig.
Suno pa kay Sarabia, matawag ini nga isa ka widespread budgetary crisis bangud indi lang ini nagakatabo sa mga Barangay Officials kundi amo man sa mga Sangguniang Kabataan (SK) Councils.
Pahayag niya nga yara lang sa duha ka mga barangay ang nakapasa sang ila annual budget humalin sa mga SK officials.
Suno pa sa iya, ini amo ang nagapahayag nga kun wala sang annual budget, wala man sang mga programa, proyekto, Capital outlay, Salary increase kag Social Services sa Barangay.
Ini man ang rason nga nagpasar sang resolution si Sarabia nga nagapanawagan sang Investigation in aid of Legislation sa tanan nga Barangay kag Sangguniang Kabataan Council sa siyudad sang Iloilo agud makahatag ang mga ini sang ila mga paathag.
Pilipinas, nagahanda na nga mangin host sa labing una nga ASTAF U19 Asian Sepaktakraw Championship 2026
Nagahanda na ang Pilipinas nga mangin host sa labing una nga ASTAF U19 Asian Sepaktakraw Championship 2026.
Masobra 600 ka mga kabataan nga atleta nga may edad nga 15 tubtob 17 anyos halin sa 10 tubtob 12 ka mga pungsod ang maga-partisipar sa kompetisyon nga lakip ang men’s kag women’s events sa regu, quad, kag mixed quadrant categories.
Suno sa Philippine Sepaktakraw Association Inc.
(PSTAI), magluwas nga isa ka kadungganan nga mag-host sang isa ka world-class nga competition, handom man sang ini nga event nga makakita sang madamo pa nga kabataan nga may arasang talent nga bag-uhon ang imahe sangsepaktakraw sa pungsod.
Nakipag-angot naman ang PSTAI sa 70 lokal na sepaktakraw clubs sa bug-os nga puungsod kag sa mga regional director agud magpili sang national team nga magasabak sa torneo.
Nahibaluan nga nakuha sang pungsod ang hosting rights sang Disyembre 2025 kun sa diin ginpatigayon ini sa pungsod Thailand kaupod ang nagkalain-lain nga nga leaders sang iban nga pungsod.
Jose Nereo Cajilig Lujan, gindagdagan sang warrant of arrest
Ang warrant of arrest nga gin-isyu sang Regional Trial Court (RTC) Branch 38 ang naangot sa two counts sang cyberlibel nga ginpasaka ni anay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas.
Gin-file sang anay alkalde ang kaso bangud sa ginapahayag pagtamay ni Lujan kay Treñas paagi sa mga facebook posts sini.
Suno kay Treñas, hugot niya nga ginabatun ang mga kritisismo batok sa iya ilabi na sang yara pa sya sa pwesto, apang subong nga isa na sya ka private citizen, kinahanglan nga mapangapinan na ang kamatuoran indi lang para sa iya, kundi para mismo sa mga indibidwal nga biktima sang sala nga mga impormasyon.
Kasunod sang gindagdag nga warrant, nagvoluntary surrender naman si Lujan sa korte.
Nagkomento pa ni sa post ni Trenas nga nakapyansa na siya sa nasambit nga kaso.
Nahibaluan nga P48,000 ang piyansa sa kada count sang cyber libel nga ginpasaka batok kay Lujan.
49th HLTF-EI, ginalantaw dako nga benepisyo sa Iloilo
Ginalantaw nga dako nga benepisyo para sa siudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo, ang 49th meeting sang High-level Task Force on ASEAN Economic Integration nga ginapatigayon sa siudad sa Iloilo City.
Allan Gepty, iya ginpahayag nga tinutuyo man sang pagsinapol amo ang mapakilala ang ASEAN sa Iloilo kag mapakilala ang Iloilo sa ASEAN.
Suno sa iya, importante nga tikang ini agud mapabakod ang koneksyon sang Iloilo sa iban nga mga pungsod.
Dugang niya, ini agud mapakita man nga ang Iloilo makasarang sa pag-host sang dalagko nga mga events kaangay sang ASEAN.
Sa madumduman, ginmensyonar ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas nga isa sa mga rason kun ngaa napilian ang siudad nga mangin host, amo ang recognition nga nabatun sang sini kaangay sang UNESCO Creative City of Gastronomy kag ASEAN Clean Tourist City Award.
Baronda, pangamuyuan na lang ang pagdalahig sa iya sang ex-Marines angot sa kwarta sa maleta
Ginpanginwala ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne Jam-Jam Baronda ang mga alegasyon batok sa iya sang mga ex-Marines.
Ini matapos nga nalakip si Baronda sa ginhingadlan sang nga nagpakilala nga ex-Marines nga gindul-ongan sang maleta nga may kwarta.
Sa statement nga ginpagwa ni Baronda, ginsiling sini nga sa baylo nga maghatag sang atensyon sa sini nga kabutigan, pangamuyuan na lang sini nga mangibabaw ang kamatuoran.
Suno sa iya, wala gid namitlangan ang iya pangalan sa ano man nga inquiries nga ginpatigayon sang Kamara, Senado, ukon sang Independent Commission for Infrastructure.
Ginalantaw naman nga rason sang kongresista kun ngaa ginadalahig siya diri amo ang iya kaangtanan sa isa ka lokal nga personalidad nga nangin kritikal sa tinalikdan nga administrasyon.
Suno diri, ang amo nga personalidad ang nagabulig sa iya sa pulitika.
Nagasalig man ini sa kaalam sang mga Ilonggo agud makit-an kun ano gid ang kamatuoran.
Kahapon sang nagpaguwa sang alegasyon ang mga nagpakilala nga anay mga miyembro sang Philippine Marines nga naga-claim man nga nag-deliver sila sang P805 billion nga cash nga nakabutang sa maleta kanday President Ferdinand Bongbong Marcos Jr.
Human rights lawyer, wala nagapati sa mga alegasyon sang ex-Marines sa pila ka mga kongresista
Wala nagapati ang isa ka human rights lawyer sa mga alegasyon sang ex-Marines sa pila ka mga kongresista nga ginaalegar ila gindul-ungan sang mga maleta nga may unod nga kuwarta.
Matandaan nga kahapon nga adlaw nagpaguwa sang alegasyon ang mga nagpakilala nga anay mga miyembro sang Philippine Marines nga naga-claim man nga nag-deliver sila sang P805 billion nga cash nga nakabutang sa maleta kanday President Ferdinand Bongbong Marcos Jr.
Jobert Pahilga, iya ginpahayag nga isa ini ka ‘politically motivated’ nga mga alegasyon.
Dugang pa sini nga makaduluda ang amo nga pahayag, bangud halos tanan nga pangalan nga gin-mention amo ang mga anti-Duterte nga mga politiko.
Ginkwestyon man ni Pahilga ang timing sang pagpagwa sang amo nga mga pahayag, bangud kaangay gintuon gid ini sa confirmation of charges sa International Criminal Court (ICC) ini anay President Rodrigo Duterte kag sa damlag lang nga pag-anunsyo ni Vice President Sara Duterte sang kandidatura sa 2028 election.
Sa karun, ginahangkat ni Pahilga ang mga ex-Marines, nga pamatud-an ang ila mga alegasyon nga para sa iya ang isa ka kabutigan.
EDSA Anniversary: Jaro Archdiocese, manguna sa prayer rally kag prusisyon subong nga adlaw
Pangunahan sang Archdiocese of Jaro ang pagpangamuyo kag prusisyon kadungan sang ika-40 nga anibersaryo sang EDSA People Power Revolution subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 25.
Isa ini sa 86 ka mga diocese kag archdiocese nga magahiwat sang kaangay sini nga aktibidad sa lain-lain nga bahin sang pungsod.
Meliton Oso, director sang Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center (JASAC), iya ginpahayag nga diri sa Iloilo, gin-organisar ini sa pagpanguna sang Commission on Laity nga ginabuylugan sang nagkalain-lain nga religious organizations kag mandated organizations.
Sandig sa schedule sang simbahan, alas dos karon sa hapon, magatipon ang mga katapo sang Commission on Laity kag nagkalain-lain nga mga parokya para sa Novena sa St.
Halin sa amo nga simbahan, patigayunon ang prusisyon padulong sa Jaro Cathedral kaupod ang imahen sang Mahal nga Birhen sang Guadalupe kag imahen sang Mahal nga Birhen sang Fatima.
Samtang padayon ang prusisyon, maga-pangamuyo ang tanan sang Santos nga Rosaryo.
Alas kwatro sa hapon naman ang Santos nga Misa sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral nga pangunahan ni Jaro Archbishop Most Reverend Midyphil B.
Pagkatapos sang misa, may patigayunon nga candle-lighting nga amo ang pagtakop sang mobilisasyon sa amo nga adlaw.
Matandaan nga may duha na ka hugnat sang Trillion Peso March nga natabo sang Septyembre 21 kag Nobyembre 30, 2025, apang ini nga mobilisasyon suno kay Msgr.
Oso amo ang “very prayerful” nga akto nga may yara sang misa kag prusisyon sa baylo sang nakaandan nga martsa.
Ginapangabay man sang Archdiocese of Jaro sa mga maga-upod sa prusisyon nga magsuksok sang puti nga panapton sa amo nga adlaw.
Ipanawagan man sang Simbahan Katolika kadungan sang mobilisasyon angpagtapna sa political dynasties sa Pilipinas.
Oso, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga dinastiya amo man ang ugat sang kurapsyon.
Ipangamuyo kag ipanawagan sang Simbahan nga mangin sinsero kag seryoso man ang Kongreso sa pagpasar sang mga hagna batok sa nakaandan nga pagpasa-pasa sang gahum sa magpamilya sa pulitika.
Ginbalikan sang JASAC Director ang statement nga gin-isyu sang Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines-Episcopal Commission on Catholic Education, Catholic Educational Association of the Philippines, kag iban pa nga nagapanawagan sa paglakip sang pila ka mga probisyon sa anti-political dynasty bills nga pareho nga pending sa Kamara kag Senado.
Sandig sa ginaduso sang church-based groups, limitahan lamang sa “maximum of two relatives per family” ang makauyat sang elective position nga isa sa local office kag isa sa national position kag indi dapat mag-overlap ang jurisdiction.
Ginsuhestyon man nga indi pagpasugtan ang mga maghimata tubtub sa fourth civil degree of consanguinity ukon affinity nga dungan nga makapungko sa elective positions.
Pahayag ni Oso, nagalaum ang Social Action Network sang Simbahan nga indi pakulahaw kag indi lunsay lip-service lang ang ginaproponer nga mga hagna.
sa Kongreso nga hatagan sang prayoridad ang legislation nga amo ang magadumili sang political dynasties.
Kabug-usan nga 24 ka anti-political dynasty bills ang na-file subong sa Kamara kag Senado lakip na ang House Bill 6771 nga ginduso nanday Speaker Faustino “Bojie” Dy kag presidential son kag House Majority Leader Ferdinand Alexander Marcos.#
Manuel, gintawag nga ‘asal marites’ ang ‘ex-marines’ nga nag-alegar nga nakabaton siya sang kickback
Raoul Manuel matapos ginlakip sang nagapakilala ex-marines ang iya pangalan sa ginaalegar nga nakabaton sang kickback.
Gintawag ini ni Manuel nga “mga asal marites” kag mga “traydor sa bayan” nga indi gani makapangapin sa teritoryo sang pungsod, apang nagahimo pa sang mga istorya nga nagadalahig sang “mga anti-Duterte nga indi man kurakot.”
“Sinama ng 16 ex-Marines (plus one ex-army personnel and one army reservist) ang pangalan ko sa mga kongresista na tumanggap daw o nakinabang sa kikbak.
Nakakahiya itong former Marines at Army!
Di na nga nila naipagtanggol ang mga dagat natin mula sa panghihimasok ng mga banyaga, tapos gumawa pa sila ng mga kwento para idamay ang mga anti-Duterte na hindi kurakot,” suno sa former lawmaker.
Ginkwestyon man sini kun ngaa lunsay mga naga-kontra sa Duterte ang ginlista sang “ex-marines” sa affidavit.
“Gets na namin na si Marcos Jr ang hari ng kurapsyon sa bansa ngayon.
Pero bakit puro kalaban ng mga Duterte ang target ng affidavit nitong ex-Marines?
Yari ang dugang pa nga kaundan sang post ni Manuel:
“Dati pa pinapakalat ng Duterte camp sa social media ang imbentong kwento na tumanggap ako ng kikbak, habang sila itong nagtatago ng bank records.
Kung tumanggap nga ako ng kikbak, saan ko ginamit?
Alam ng mga taong nakakakilala sa akin na hindi ako nabubuhay nang marangya.
Sasabihin ba nila na binigay ko ang mga kikbak sa NPA, na sinasabi rin nilang paubos na?
Hindi umuubra ang redtagging, mga paratang at diskriminasyon sa akin.
Alam nila na malinis ang konsyensya ko at hindi ako kurakot bilang dating kongresista.
Alam nila na tumitindig ako sa tama at di ako tumitigil kahit ni-re-redtag at inaatake.
Kaya natatakot sila sa mga kabataan gaya ko!
Ngayon, aktibo ako sa kampanya kontra kurapsyon.
Kaya pilit nila akong binabahiran ng mga alegasyon ng kurapsyon.
Hindi namin titigilan ang impeachment ni Inday Lustay!
Titiyakin naming mabubulok si Digong sa Netherlands!
Nahibaluan nga sa affidavit sang ex-marines, ila ginpahayag nga ginsugo sila nga mag-escort kag mag-deliver sang lain-lain nga kadakuon sang mga maleta sa mga kongresista.
“Nautusan din kami na mag-escort at mag-deliver ng iba’t-ibang laki ng maleta sa mga congressmen/women na naaalala namin sa ngayon dahil sila ang napapanood namin minsan sa telebisyon o palagi namin silang nakikita pag nakakausap sila ni Zaldy Co,” suno pa sa affidavit.
Dugang nila: “Nagdeliver kami mismo sa bahay ng ilan, sa House of Representatives, at yong iba ay kinuha nila sa Unit 8 o Unit 9 ng Polo Club Townhouse, Forbes Park.”
Subong nga adlaw sang nagguwa ang alegasyon sang mga nagpakilala nga anay mga miyembro sang Philippine Marines nga naga-claim man nga nag-deliver sila sang ₱805 billion nga cash nga nakabutang sa maleta kanday President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Base sa ila nga statements, ginbyahe ang kuwarta paagi sa van kag may yara man nga naggamit pa sila sang aircraft agud madul-ong ini sa designated locations.
Sa press conference kaina sa Club Filipino, gin-claim sang abogado nga si Levi Baligod nga ini nga ex-marines ang kaupdanan anay ni Master Sgt.
Si Guteza amo ang kontrobersyal nga Senate whistleblower nga naga-claim nga nagserbe anay bilang security personnel ni anay Ako Bicol Rep.
Mga kongresista sa Iloilo, nalakip sa gin-alegar sang ‘ex-marines’ nga gindul-ungan sang maleta
Tatlo ka incumbent lawmakers kag isa ka former representative halin sa Iloilo ang ginlakip sa alegasyon sang ex-Marines nga ila gindul-ungan sang mga maleta nga may unod sang kuwarta.
Sa affidavit sang ex-marines, ila ginpahayag nga ginsugo sila nga mag-escort kag mag-deliver sang lain-lain nga kadakuon sang mga maleta sa mga kongresista.
Lakip sa ila nga ginhingadlan amo sanday:
Julienne ‘Jamjam’ Baronda * Uswag Ilonggo Rep.
Nagsabat naman si former Representative Manuel matapos nga gindalahig ang iya pangalan.
Gintawag sini ang former marines nga mga “asal marites.”
Di na nga nila naipagtanggol ang mga dagat natin mula sa panghihimasok ng mga banyaga, tapos gumawa pa sila ng mga kwento para idamay ang mga anti-Duterte na hindi kurakot,” suno sa anay kongresista.
Ginpamangkot sini ang mga naglakip sa iya pangalan kun ngaa lunsay mga nagakontra sa mga Duterte ang ginapuntariya sa affidavit.
Mga traydor sa bayan,” kabahin pa sang iya Facebook post.
Ginahulat naman ang mangin sabat sang tatlo ka kongresista kasunod sang sini nga alegasyon, kag iga-publish gilayon kun mangin available na.
Nagpagwa naman sang statement ang Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) kaangot sa kontrobersyal nga isyu nga naga-involve sang mga indibidwal nga nagalaragway sang ila kaugalingon bilang anay Philippine Marine Corps members.
Suno sa AFP, ini nga alegasyon ang dapat nga i-evaluate paagi sa legal and investigative processes sa atubang sang competent authorities.
Presquito kag nagapangayo sang klaro nga imbestigasyon
Nagapangayo si Pavia Mayor Laurence Gorriceta sang klaro kag insakto nga imbestigasyon halin sa kapulisan may kaangtanan sa duha ka magsunod nga insidente nga natabo sang nagligad nga gab-i Pebrero 23 sa banwa sang Pavia.
Ini matapos nga wala nagasanto ang mga statement kag imbestigasyon nga ginpagwa sang Pavia Municipal Police Station, Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) Iloilo kag Police Regional Office (PRO) 6.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Pavia Mayor Laurence Gorriceta, iya ginapahayag nga nagapanawagan ini nga kuntani hatagan sang atensyon ni PRO 6 Director PBGen.
Bayani Razalan ang nasambit nga mga insidente agud nga mahatagan ini sang insakto kag klaro nga imbestigasyon.
Pahayag pa niya, tuman ini ka dismayado sa natabo nga imbestigasyon sang Pavia Municipal Police Station.
Dugang pa ni Mayor Gorriceta, magahulat ini sang lihuk nga pagaubrahon sang mga otoridad kag dapat pasabton ang mga dapat manabat sa natbo nga insidente.
Sa kaangot nga balita, dismayado man si Mayor Luigi Gorriceta sa performance ni Police Captain Ritz Presquito sa pag-imbestigar sa gina-alegar nga abduction incidents nga natabo sa ila banwa.
Pahayag pa sang alcalde nga kun indi mahatagan sang solusyon maga-request ini sang replacement ni PCapt.
Dugang pa sang alcalde nga indi man ini satisfied sa trabaho sang Pavia Municipal Police Station.
Sa matandaan nga sa idalom man ni Pcapt.
Presquito natbo ang pagsulod sang Termite gang sa isa ka jewelry shop sang Pamilya Gorriceta sa nasambit nga banwa.
CIDG 6, ginklaro nga isa ka legit operation ang natabo sa Brgy.
Cabugao Sur Pavia, Iloilo kag indi isa ka abduction
Ginklaro sang Criminal Investigation and Detection Group 6 (CIDG-6) nga indi pagpang-abduct kundi legit operation nga ila ginpatigayon sa Brgy.
Cabugao Sur Pavia, Iloilo sang Pebrero 23 .
Ini matapos mapuhag ang pumuluyo sa natabo nga pagpalupok sang pusil kag pilit pasakay sa awto sa isa ka lalaki nga ginkilala kay Mark Alarcon kag ginsundan pa ini sang isa pa ka buy-bust operation sang armas malapit sa Pavia plaza sa isa ka babayi nga ginkilala kay Stephanie Guillem.
Job Lujan, deputy chief sang CIDG Iloilo kag Guimaras, iya ginpahayag nga ang ila pag-aresto ang paagi sa arrest warrant kag buy-bust operation nga may kaangtanan sa kaso sang illegal nga armas ukon ang Republic Act 10591 ukon Comprehensive Firearms and Ammunition Regulation Act.
Suno pa sa iya nga ang nasambit nga operasyon ang sa idalom sang ila flagship program nga ”Oplan Paglalansag Omega.”
Suno pa sa opisyal nga may ara sang “accidental firing,” nga natabo bangud sa madugay nga pag-control sang mga personnel sa subject nga si Mark Alarcon.
Gindugang pa ni Lujan nga ginarespeto naman sang CIDG ang imbetigasyon sang Police Regional Office 6 nga ang isa ka parte sang reklamo may kaangtanan sa gin-alegar nga love quarrel nga ginlakipan sang former boyfriend naman ang sa kay Stephanie Guillem.
Ginapanindugan naman sang CIDG-6 nga nag-coordinate man ang ila provincial officer sa hepe sang kapulisan sa Pavia antes ginpatigayon ang operasyon bilang kabahin sang koordinasyon sa lokal nga kapulisan.
”Nakikita ko lang si PRRD na parang Tatay na nag-reremind sa mga kabataan na don’t use drugs”-supporter of ex-Pres.
Kumpiyansa ang mga taga-suporta ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte sa The Hague, Netherlands nga indi madutlan ang anay Presidente sa mga confirmation of charges batok sa iya sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Lea Manego, supporter ni ex-President Duterte, iya ginpahayag nga bag-o pa lamang nagsugod ang proseso kag wala pa sang “clear picture” may kaangtanan sa mga alegasyon batok sa anay Presidente.
Suno pa sa iya, kun may ara sang ”concrete evidence” nga ginapakita ang pihak nga kampo, may ara man sila nga mga ebidensya nga iga-representar.
Gin-athag man sini nga apisar mainit ang tensyon sa tunga sang mga taga-suporta sang mga biktima sang drug war ni Duterte kag sa ila nga mga taga-suporta ni anay PRRD nagapabilin sa gihapon ang respeto sa tunga sang mga ini sa ICC.
Nagalaom man ang mga ini nga makit-an sang International Criminal Court ang positibo nga resulta sang ginpatigayon nga pagpakigbato ni Duterte sa illegal nga droga sang ini pa ang nagapungko bilang Presidente.
”Gina-compromise ang future kag learnings sang pamatan-on sa tatlo ka adlaw nga suspension of classes para sa ASEAN”-NUSP-Panay Coordinator
Ginkadismaya sang National Union of Students of the Philippines (NUSP)–Panay ang desisyon sang Iloilo City Government sa pag-kanselar sang klase sa tanan nga lebel sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw bangud sa patigayunon nga ASEAN meetings sa syudad sang Iloilo nga maga-umpisa bwas nga adlaw Pebrero 25 tubtob 27.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Matthew Gonzaga, Regional Coordinator sang National Union of Students of the Philippines NUSP-Panay, nagpahayag ini sang pagkabalaka bangud apisar nga iswitch ini sa online learning ginataya naman diri ang kalidad sang pagtuon sang mga estudyante.
Suno kay Gonzaga, bilang isa ka estudyante, naga-upod man sila sa panawagan nga indi pagdayunon ang LPTRP ukon Local Public Transport Route Plan nga nagaresulta sa pag-phase out sang pila ka public utility vehicles.
Ginpahayag sini nga sa baylo nga magkanselar sang klase, mas maayo nga i-review sang city government ang mga polisa nga may kaangtanan sa transportasyon kag trapiko nga problema sang syudad.
Para sa grupo, indi dapat pagtakpan ang matuod nga problema sa trapiko nga ginapangatubang sa syudad paagi sa pagkanselar sang klase.
Ginakabig man sang mga ini nga “anti-student” ang ini nga polisa nga nagaapekto direkta sa pag-eskwela sang kabataan.
Lalaki, gintiro kag pwersahan nga ginsakay sa awto sa Pavia, Iloilo
Padayon pa nga ginapangita ang lalaki nga nagabisekleta, gintiro kag pwersahan ginsakay sa salakyan sang mga suspek sa Barangay Cabugao Sur, Pavia, Iloilo, pasado alas-6:00 kagab-i, Pebrero 23.
Sa imbestigasyon sang kapulisan, nakit-an sa CCTV Footage sa lugar nga nagasakay sa iya bisikleta ang biktma samtang ginasundan sang mga suspek gamit ang pribado nga salakyan nga ginalantaw pula ukon maroon ang duag.
Nabatian man sang isa ka witness sa lugar ang pagsinggit sang biktima sang tabang tubtob nakabati ini sang isa ka lupok sang pusil.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Master Sergeant Luther Maderse, imbestigador sang Pavia Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga ila sa karun gina-monitor ang mga hospital sa syudad sang Iloilo kun may yara sang gindala nga isa ka persona nga biktima sang shooting incident.
Nahibaluan man nga padulong ang direksyon sang salakyan sa syudad sang Iloilo matapos ginkarga ang biktima.
Maderse, nakita man sa CCTV Footage ang pagpanaog sa salakyan sang duha ka lalaki nga suspek kag ginabulubanta yara sa 20 tubtob 30-anyos ang pang-edaron.
Samtang, sa separado naman nga interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Kagawad Jun sang nasambit nga barangay, iya ginpahayag nga ila na-identify ang bisikleta nga ginapanag-iyahan ni ”Alyas Mark” kag residente man sang amo nga barangay.
Suno pa sa iya, sa karon indi pa matumod kun siya gid man ang nagasakay sa bisikleta sang natabo ang insidente.
Pahayag pa sini, gintinguhaan sang pamilya ni alyas Mark nga kontakon ang cellphone sini apang indi ini ma-contact.
Sa karun, wala sa gihapon sang identity ang biktima kag ang mga suspek rason nga nagapadayon pa sa gihapon ang imbestigasyon sang mga otoridad.
”Marami pang kaso ang dapat panagutan ni Duterte”-Kara Taggaoa sang Bayan-Europe
Wala nakapugong ang mabugnaw nga tyempo agud magtipon sa The Hague, Netherlands ang mga pamilya kag mga nagasuporta sa mga biktima sang drug war ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte sa ginpatigayon nga confirmation of charges hearing kahapon nga adlaw, Pebrero 23.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Kara Taggaoa, myembro sang Bayan-Europe, iya ginpahayag nga maiinit ang pagbantay sang pamilya sang biktima apisar nga naglab-ot na sa 10 ka tuig ang ila paghulat sang hustisya.
Suno pa kay Taggaoa, ginatingwaan sang ila grupo nga mangin malinong ang ila pagtililipon kag wala sang tensyon sa tunga sang mga ini kag sa mga taga-suporta ni Duterte.
Dugang pa sini sang naligad lang nga adlaw nagpatigayon man sila sang Bantay Katarungan Week, nga may katuyuan nga magpaabot sang ila nga mga panawagan kag hustisya sa mga mga biktima sang Drug war ni Duterte.
Naga-laom man ang mga ini nga apisar wala nagtambong si Duterte sa hearing kahapon nga adlaw, magatambong na ini sa mga masunod nga hearing agud mabatyagan sang anay Presidente ang mga hibubun-ot kag singgitan sang mga tawo nga nadulan sang palangga sa kabuhi.
Suno pa kay Taggaoa nga kinahanglan ipakigbato sang mga tawo ang ila kinamatarong sa subong tion kag panindugan ini bangud may kinahanglan nga bayaran si Duterte sa iya paglapas sa layi sa idalom sang iya anay administrasyon.
ICTTMO head, pabor nga dapat i-remind ang mga driver sa mga traffic regulations
Uldarico Garbanzos nga dapat na nga i-remind ang mga driver sa siudad sa mga traffic regulations sa siudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Garbanzos, head sang nasambit nga opisina, iya ginpahayag nga lakip sa dapat nga i-remind sang mga regulasyon amo ang mga pampubliko nga salakyan kag mga private car owners.
Suno pa kay Garbanzos, ini amo ang isa sa mga tikang agud nga mas mangin mahilway ang dalagan sang trapiko sa siudad.
Dala man sa ginpakigbahin sang ICTTMO head amo ang pito ka mga personnel sang Traffic and Transportation Management Office (TTMO) nga iga-endorso ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas sa Land Transportation Office 6 agud nga ma-deputize.
Ini amo ang may tinutuyo nga mahatagan sang awtoridad ang pila ka mga traffic enforcers kag mismo nga si Garbanzos agud nga makaimplementar sang mga national traffic laws kun sa diin nalakip ang Anti-Sardinas Policy.
Construction worker sa Alimodian, nasapwan patay kag may laslas sa liog
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi kag may dako nga pilas sa iya liog ang isa ka construction worker sa Barangay Balabago, Alimodian, Iloilo, kahapon nga adlaw, ala-7:30 sa aga.
Ini amo ang ginkilala kay Marvin John Gallego, 49-anyos, kag residente sang Brgy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Chrysler Ledesma, hepe sang Alimodian Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga nasapwan ang indibidwal nga nagapaligo na sa iya kaugalingon nga dugo kag wala na sang kabuhi.
Suno pa kay Ledesma, Nakita man nga malapit sa bangkay ang isa ka ispading nga ginapatihan gingamit sini agud nga utason ang iya kaugalingon nga kabuhi.
Nagapati man ang asawa sini nga si Meriam Gallego nga matuod nga gin-utas sang iya bana ang kaugalingon sini nga kabuhi.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Meriam, iya ginpahayag nga umpisa sang nadakpan sa buybust operation ang iya nga abyan, didto na sang nagsugod ang kakulba sini nga maulamid man sya sa isyu sang droga.
Dugang pa niya nga wala sang kun sin-o man nga kuntra si Marvin, rason nga nagapati man ini nga wala sang foul play sa kamatayon sang iya bana
CDEU, ginakabig nga pagpanghangkat ang panibag-o nga stratehiya sang mga durugista
Ginakabig sang City Drug Enforcement Unit (CDEU), nga isa ka dako nga pagpanghakat sa ila nga buy bust operations ang panibag-o nga stratehiya sang mga durugista.
Roque Gimeno III, Hepe sang CDEU, iya ginpahayag nga ila natukiban nga madamo na sa mga nagabakal kag nagabaligya sang droga ang ginapaagi na sa mga delivey rider kag ginaputos ang mga droga kaangay sang parcel.
Suno pa kay Gimeno, wala na sang madamo nga naga-engage sa face-to-face transaction, bangud nga nagahalong naman ang mga ini agud indi sila madali nga madakpan sang mga awtoridad.
Natukiban sang mga kapulisan ang panibag-o nga tikang sang mga durugista matapos nila nga nadakpan ang isa ka subject nga madamo sang tinago nga mga karton nga amo ang ginaputsan sang mga droga kag ginapadeliver sa mga rider.
Kabataan Panay, nagapanawagan sang hustisya sa mga biktima sang EJK ni anay PRRD
Magahiwat sang hublag protesta ang Kabataan Panay sa siyudad sang Iloilo, bilang panawagan sang hustisya sa mga biktima sang Extra Judicial Killing (EJK) ni anay President Rodrigo Roa Duterte kadungan sang iya man confirmation of charges subong nga adlaw sa International Criminal Court.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Arlie Bosque, Secretary General sang Kabataan Panay Party list, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga protesta sang amo nga grupo ang ila lihok agud isinggitan ang pagpanabat sa madugo nga hitabo sang administrasyon ni former PRRD nga nag-utas sang linibo ka mga kabuhi sang mga Pilipino.
Ginpatpat man ni Bosque ang ginapahayag kurapsyon sang opisina ni Vice President Sara Duterte sang ini ang nangin Secretary sang Department of Education (DepEd).
Magluwas sa amo nga protesta sa subong nga adlaw, magaupod man ang amo nga grupo sa palaabuton nga prayer rally sang simbahan agud magpanawagan sang accountability batok sa mga korap nga opisyal sang gobyerno sa Pebrero 25, bilang pagkomemorar sang EDSA Poeple Power Revolution.
Gun ban, pinatupad sa Iloilo City kaugnay sa ASEAN Meetings
Ipinatupad na sa Iloilo City ang 10 araw na gun ban bilang bahagi ng security measures para sa high-level Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) meetings na nakatakda sa Pebrero 25 hanggang 27.
Ayon sa Police Regional Office 6 (PRO-6), epektibo ang temporary suspension ng Permit to Carry Firearms Outside of Residence (PTCFOR) simula noong Biyernes at tatagal hanggang Marso 1.
Sa ilalim ng direktiba, ang mga uniformed at on-duty personnel lamang mula sa otorisadong law enforcement agencies ang papayagang magdala ng armas.
Sa panayam naman ng Bombo Radyo kay PCol Wilbert Parilla, OIC Director ng Iloilo City Police Office, sinabi nito na nag-deploy na rin ng mahigit 1,900 na mga police personnel.
Ito ay para magbigay seguridad sa mga delegado sa loob ng tatlong araw na meeting.
Ang mga delegado ay mula sa mga bansang kasapi ng Association of Southeast Asian Nations o ASEAN, kabilang ang Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Pilipinas, Singapore, Thailand, Timor-Leste at Vietnam.
Environmental advocates, nagapang-agda sa pagpartisipar sa Basuranggola 3
Ginpakigbahin sang duwa ka mga environmental advocates diri sa Iloilo ang ila adbokasiya nahanungod sa pagtukod sang proyekto nga Basaranggola kun sa diin ikatalo na ini nga tuig nga ginapatigayon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kanday Mayzl Domingo, Co-founder sang Luntian PH kag Riza Ornos, Co-Founder sang Earthing PH, ila ginpahayag nga padayon ang ila kolaborasyon agud mapalapnag sa mga tawo ang ihibalo nahanungod sa problema sang basura kag single-use plastics sa komunidad.
Suno pa sa ila nga tuman ka importante nga mahibaluan sang publiko ang importansya sa pagtipig sang palibot kag pagpabilin nga mangin manami ini.
Ginpunto man sang mga ini kun ano ka makatalagam ang dala sang isa single straw kun sa diin nagaabot sang masobra 200 ka tuig antes mag-decompose, samtang ang plastic bottles nagaabot naman sang 440 ka tuig antes ini madunot.
Suno pa sa ila, ang Basuranggola may inisyatibo nga mapataas ang awareness sang komunidad sa nagakatabo sa palibot.
Ma-edukar ang publiko sa epekto sang basura kag climate change ang mas madamo nga environmental advocates
Nagapangimbita gid ang Luntian PH kag Earthing PH sang madamo nga participants agud mag-upod sa aktibidad nga pagahiwaton sa Abril 25 agud makaganyat pa sila sang madamo nga participants sa ila adbokasiya nahanungod sa environmental education.
Isa ka dermatologist, ginpatpat ang husto nga pag-atipan sang panit batok sa nagkalain-lain nga sakit
Ginpatpat sang isa ka dermatologist ang husto nga pag-atipan kag pagprotekta sa panit bilang una nga depensa sang lawas batok sa nagkalain-lain nga sakit.
Jennifer Grendel Ganzon-Bernardo, FPDS, iya ginpahayag nga ang panit may dako nga papel bilang primary defense mechanism sang lawas kag isa ini ka tuman ka aktibo nga parte sang immune system.
Suno sa iya, importante nga ipabilin ang matinlo nga panit paagi sa regular nga pagpaligo kag paggamit sang mild nga habon ukon cleanser.
Gindugang pa niya nga dapat limitahan ang exposure sa adlaw kag maggamit gid sang sunscreen agud malikawan ang malain nga epekto sang sang ultraviolet rays.
Ginpakigbahin sini ang epekto sang hormonal changes nga mahimo makaapekto sa kondisyon sang panit gani importante ang healthy lifestyle, pareho sang pagkaon sang prutas kag pag-inom sang madamo nga tubig .
Lakip man sa iya mga paandam ang paglikaw sa pagpanigarilyo, sobra nga stress, kag indi man dapat mag-imbento sa pagbutang sang wala ginarekomendar nga bulong sa panit bangod mahimo ini makahatag sang mas dako nga problema.
Isa ka Parkinsons disease patient, ginpakigbahin ang eksperyensya sa dako nga bulig sang Sayaw PD sa iya sakit
Ginpakigbahin sang isa ka Parkinsons disease patient ang iya eksperyensya nahanungod sa dako nga bulig sa iya sang Sayaw PD agud mahagan-hagan kag mapaayo ini sa iya nga sakit.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Teresita De los Santos, iya ginpahayag nga dako gid ang nabag-o sa iya kahimtangan sang nagsugod siya sa pag-upod sa klase sang Sayaw PD nga libre nga ginapakigbahin sang isa ka successful Ilonggo kag dancer nga si Novy Bereber.
Suno pa sa iya nga paagi sa pag-engage sang kaangay nga pagsaot nabuligan sini ang iya kaugalingon agud mapadali ang iya nga pag-ayo sa Parkinson’s disease.
Dako naman ang iya pagpasalamat sa kaangay sini nga inisyatibo bangud madamo sang mga Ilonggo ang nagapartisipar sa pagsaot para mapadali ang ila nga pag-ayo.
Samtang sa interviw naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Mr.
Novy Bereber, founder sang Sayaw PD, iya ginpahayag nga ang programa wala sang bayad kag bukas para sa tanan nga may pareho nga kondisyon.
Ginpahayag man sini nga bilang isa ka Ilonggo gusto sini nga mbalik sa mga tawo ang nahibal-an man sini sa luwas sang pungsod sang una.
Suno pa sa iya nga dako man nga bulig sa iya personal nga pagpasanyog sang iya kaugalingon ang kaangay sini nga buluhaton bangud nagabulig ini sa mga tawo nga nagakinahanglan sang bulig paagi sa talento nga ginhatag sa iya sang Diyos.
Ilongga OFW nga napriso sa Kuwait, nakapauli na sa Pilipinas
Tuman ang kalipay nga nabatayagan sang pamilya ni Maricris Lapatero Sacatin, isa ka Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) nga napriso sa Kuwait matapos nga nakapauli na ini sa Pilipinas.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maeb Lapatero, utod ni Maricris,tuman gid ang ila pagpasalamat bangud naistorya na sini ang iya utod kag luwas na ini sa katalagaman.
Dugang pa sini nga maayo na sini ang iya kahimtangan kag nagapasalamat nga wala ini ginpabay-an sang Diyos samtang yara pa ini sa Kuwait.
Base sa istorya ni Maricris, wala man siya ginsakit samtang ini ang napriso, apang wala siya ginpasugtan nga maggamit sang cellphone, amo nga wala dayon siya nakapakig-angut sa iya pamilya diri sa Pilipinas.
Nagapasalamat man ang pamilya ni Maeb sa tanan nga mga tawo nga nagbulig, amo man sa mga ahensya nga nagbulig agud mapadasig ang iya pagpauli sa Pilipinas.
La Paz Police Station, ginkumpirma nga wala sang foul play sa kamatayon sang lalaki nga nasapwan patay sa sulod sang iya boarding house
Ginkumpirma sang La Paz Police Station Office nga wala sang foul play nga natabo sa kamatayon sang lalaki nga nasapwan patay sa sulod sang iya boarding house kahapon nga adlaw Pebrero 21.
Ginkilala ang napatay kay Melvin Taboon, ginabulubanta naga-edad sang 50-anyos, kag residente sang Negros Occidental.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Gimel Acuesta, Officer-in-Charge sang Iloilo Police Station 2, iya gipahayag nga wala sang mga lagob ukon inagyan sang bisan ano nga natabo nga komosyon antes mapatay ang biktima.
Suno pa kay Acuesta, wala man sila sang nakit-an nga bisan ano nga pilas sa biktima magluwas lamang nga sa state of the decomposition na ang lawas sini.
Sa karon yara ang bangkay sang biktima ang sa isa ka punerarya sa Distrito La Paz.
Ila man ginahulat ang pamilya sini nga nagpadulong na kahapon nga adlaw diri sa Iloilo kun magapatigayon ang mga ini sang autopsy.
VP Duterte, may yara na sang “na-recruit” nga mangin iya ka-tandem sa 2028 presidential elections
Ginpakigbahin ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga may yara na siya sang “na-recruit” nga mangin iya ka-tandem sa 2028 presidential elections, apang nagpamalibad ini nga pangalanan agud maprotektahan ang nasambit nga indibidwal samtang wala pa ini makadesisyon.
Matandaan nga nauna na gin-anunsyo ni Duterte ang iya pagpadalagan sa pagka-presidente sa 2028.
Suno sa iya, kun magmadaug ang iya mangin bise president, pagatutokan sini ang pagpanabat sa mga nagkasala sa pungsod, samtang siya naman ang magapokus sa iya mga katungdanan bilang presidente.
Ginbuyagyag man ni Duterte nga wala pa makahibalo ang iya amay nga si former President Rodrigo Duterte, sa iya pagdeklara sang kandidatura ag ang iya lamang bana, mga kabataan, kag pila ka mga staff ang nakahibalo sini.
Ginpahayag man niya nga ang pagkapresidente wala sang ginapili nga gender, kag mas importante ang abilidad, amo man ang kahandaan sang isa ka lider sa pagserbisyo sa pungsod.
Apat ka indibidwal nga nakuhaan sang masobra P14M nga shabu sa Balasan, Iloilo, napasakaan na sang kaso
Napasakaan na sang kaso sa paglapas sang Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002 ang apat ka indibidwal nga nakuhaan sang masobra P14-milyon nga balor sang shabu sa drug buy-bust operation sa Barangay Maya, Balasan, Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay PMaj Dadje De Lima, hepe sang Provincial Drug Enforcement Unit, iya ginpahayag nga magluwas sa sini nga kaso, ginpasakaan man ang mga ini sang kaso bangud sa iligal nga pagpanag-iya sang armas nga wala sang nagakaigo nga dokumento.
Ini ang isa ka paglapas sa Republic Act No.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, na-identify na ang ginhalinan sang suplay nga ginapatihan halin sa Metro Manila kag may ara man sang source diri sa syudad sang Iloilo kun kulang ang suplay.
Suno pa sa kapulisan nga ang pagpasulod sang illegal nga droga ginapaagi sa barko kag naga “innovate” ang grupo agud malikawan ang pag-detect sang mga otoridad.
Padayon naman ang imbestigasyon sang kapulisan agud mahibaluan ang iban pa nga persona nga posible may kaangtanan sa ilegal nga operasyon.
Iloilo City, padayon ang ginapasangkad nga preparasyon sa ASEAN Economic Integration sa Pebrero 25-27, 2026
Padayon ang ginapasangkad nga preparasyon sang Iloilo City para sa patigayunon nga 49th High-Level Task Force in ASEAN Economic Integration sa Pebrero 25-27, 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga nag-deploy na sang dugang nga augmentation ang kapulisan agud masiguro ang seguridad sang mga delegado kag maga-bisita sa syudad.
Nagpatigayon naman sang ocular visit sa mga venue sang patigayunan sang aktibidad kaupod ang regional agency kahapon nga adlaw.
Suno pa sa alkalde, dako nga bugal ini para sa syudad bangud ginapakita sini nga handa na ang Iloilo City sa pag-host sang mga kaangay sini nga international events.
Bilang chairman sang Economic Development Committee sang Regional Development Council-6, ginpahayag ni Treñas nga dako ini nga oportunidad para sa Western Visayas agud ma-highlight ang mga nagkalain-lain nga industriya sa rehiyon.
Paagi sa ASEAN meeting, mahimo ma-promote ang local products pareho sang handicrafts sa mga pungsod nga kabahin sang Association of Southeast Asian Nations ukon ASEAN.
Dugang pa niya, ang pagkabaton sang Iloilo City sang ASEAN Clean Tourist City Award nagahatag sang dako nga impact sa imahe sang syudad bilang isa ka high-urbanized city nga ginakilala sa katinlo sini kag maayo nga pagdumala sa syudad.
Nahibaluan man nga ang Iloilo City ginpasidunggan bilang UNESCO Creative City of Gastronomy, nga amo ang labing una kag isahanon nga syudad sa bug-os nga Pilipinas nga nakabaton sang kaangay nga pasidungog.
Nagapakita man ini sang mabakod nga reputasyon sang syudad kun pagahambalan ang culinary excellence sa pungsod.
Mga pasahero sang fiberboat sa Parola wharf, nagpamatok sa ginaduso nga pagsaka sang plete
Nagpamatok ang mga pasahero sa ginaduso nga pagpasaka sang plete sa fiberboat nga may byahe nga Iloilo pa-Guimaras.
Ini matapos ang plano sang Guimaras Island Transport Multi-Purpose Cooperative nga ang anay regular fare nga P30, madugang ini sang P10 ukon magalab-ot na sa P40.
Sa discounted fare para sa mga studyante, senior citizens kag PWD, halin sa P24, magasaka ini sa P32; kag para sa nighttime rate naman, halin sa P30, mangin P45 na.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Vancyrel Malcon, isa ka residente sang Guimaras nga naga-eskwela sa siudad sang Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga dako nga huol para sa ila pananglitan nga madayun ang pagpatuman sang pagsaka sang plete.
Suno pa kay Malcon, dugang gid nga allowance halin sa iya ginikanan ang iya nga kinahanglanon pananglitan nga magsaka ang pamasahe.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Janrex Casabuena, isa ka regular nga pasahero, iya man ginpahayag nga mabug-at gid ini para sa iya nga makapila gid magbalik-balik sa isla ang Guimaras.
Nagpahayag man si Casabuena nga kun presyo sang gatong ang basehan sa pagsaka sang plete, dapat nga wala gid sang tuman nga pagsaka bangud nga nagalain-lain man ang presyo sini kada semana.
LTO 6, padayun nga nagapangdakop sa mga colorum
Ginklaro sang Land Transportation Office VI nga padayon ang ila nga pagpangdakop sa mga colorum kag iban pa nga mga salakyan nga nagapalas sa layi.
Gaudioso Geduspan II, Regional Director sang Land Transportation Office VI, iya ginpahayag nga halin sang Oktubre 2025, yara na sa 32 ka mga colorum ang ila nadakpan sa siudad sang Iloilo.
Sabat ini sang opisina kasunod sang reklamo ni Halley Alcarde, Vice President sang Western Visayas Alliance of Transport Cooperatives and Corporations Inc., nga ang mga naga-overload lang nga mga modernized jeepney ang ginabantayan sang LTO.
Nagpanawagan anay si Alcarde sa ahensya nga mangin patas sa ila nga pagpatuman sang mga polisa.
Suno naman kay Geduspan, wala nila ginapili kun sin-o ang nagakadapat nga dakpon ukon hatagan sang penalidad, apang isa sa mga kinahanglan sa subong nga i-address amo ang pag-overload ukon pagpugok sang mga pasahero sa sulod sang mga mini-bus.
Madumduman nga mas nangin hugot ang pagpatuman sang Anti-Sardinas policy matapos nga naglapta sa social media ang video sang isa ka overloaded nga modernized jeep sa syudad.
Lalaki, nasapwan na nga wala sang kabuhi sa ginatiniran sini nga boarding house sa Distrito sang La Paz
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka lalaki sa sulod sang iya ginatiniran nga boardinghouse sa Zone 5, La Paz, Iloilo City.
Ginkilala ang nasapwan kay Melvin Taboon, ginabulubanta naga-edad sang 40-anyos, kag residente sang Negros Occidental.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ann, boardmate sang biktima, iya ginpahayag nga wala na nakaguwa si Taboon sa iya kwarto sa sulod sang tatlo na ka adlaw.
Nabatyagan na lang sini ang mabaho halin sa kwarto sang lalaki rason nga iya ini gintawag apang wala na ini nakasabat.
Gilayon naman nga gin-report sa Punong Barangay ni Ann ang natabo agud ini ipa-check.
Sang ginbuksan ang kwarto, nakit-an ang lawas sang lalaki nga nagahabok na.
Suno sa inisyal nga obserbasyon, wala sang nakita nga pilas sa iya lawas.
Base man sa pagpangusisa sang Bombo Radyo sa ginatrabahuhan sang lalaki, naga-obra ini sa isa ka tinapayan sa La Paz kag apat ka adlaw pa lamang nga naga-duty.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Edgar Monter, katrabaho sang lalaki, iya ginpahayag nga naka-istorya si Taboon nga sa nauna sini nga trabaho, may ara sang wala pag-intindihanay sa management sini.
Suno pa sa iya nga nagbaisay sila sang iya supervisor sa nauna sini nga trabaho sa Miagao, Iloilo bilang isa man ka panadero.
Dugang pa niya, duha ka adlaw na nga wala nagreport si Taboon sa trabaho rason nga nagduda sila nga may natabo nga malain diri.
Gilayon man nila nga gin-check ini sa iya ginatiniran nga boarding house kag ato na kag nahibal-an nila nga wala na gali ini nakaguwa sa iya kwarto kag bangkay na ini sang nasapwan
Suno pa sa iya mga kaupdanan, ila ginpahayag nga basi ginbatyag sini ang kalain sang buot sa iya nauna nga trabaho kag gina-alegar nga na-cardiac-arrest ini.
Padayon sa karon ang imbestigasyon sang mga otoridad agud mahibaluan ang matuod nga natabo.
12-anyos nga bata sa Cebu, gin-utdan sang ulo; Lawas sini, ginhigot pa sa puno sang kahoy
Nasapwan nga wala na sang ulo kag nahigot pa sa puno sang kahoy ang lawas sang isa ka 12-anyos nga bata nga babaye sa Toledo City, Cebu.
Ginkilala ang biktima nga si Crystal Joy Lagaras Abarquez, Grade 6 pupil nga masobra isa ka semana na nga missing antes nakit-an ang lawas.
Natultulan ang bangkay sang bata matapos nga gintaban sang ido ang iya nga tiil.
Ginpahibalo sang tag-iya sang ido ang awtoridad kag paagi sa search operations, natultulan ang lawas sang bata nga nahigot sa kahoy kag may shoelace man sa iya liog.
Yara na sa advanced state of decomposition ang lawas, samtang nakit-an naman ang ulo sini malapit man sa amo nga area sang kagulangan.
Na-identify naman sang iloy nga anak sini ang biktima bangud sa jogging pants kag kulintas nga iya ginasuksok.
Sa pagpangusisa sang kapulisan, nakita sa CCTV footage ang biktima sang Pebrero 11 sang hapon sakay sa motorsiklo sang lalaki nga nakasuksok sang kalo.
Suno kay Toledo Police chief Police Lieutenant Colonel Roland Barraquio, gin-identify sang mga testigo ang suspek nga pakaduha man mismo sang biktima.
Todo naman ang panginwala sang suspek, bangud suno sa iya, bata pa ang biktima, kag sa pagkamatuod suno sa iya, nagbulig pa siya gani sa pagpangita.
Ginahulat pa sang pulis ang autopsy results agud matumod kun na-rape ang biktima.
Apang antes pa man sini, ginpreparar na ang kaso nga murder batok sa suspek nga subong arestado na.
Nahibaluan man sa pagpanalawsaw nga may nauna na nga duha ka kaso nga rape ang suspek sa Iloilo.
Sandig pa sa pulis, may history man ang suspek sa paggamit sang iligal nga droga.#
Oso kay VP Sara: ‘Matuod bala nga tawo si Piattos, ukon junk food lang?’
Meliton Oso, iya ginpahayag nga kun magsaka na ang articles of impeachment sa Senado, diri na kag may kahigayunan ang mga tawo nga mapamatian ang sabat ni Duterte kaangot sa sampaw-sampaw nga mga akusasyon sa iya.
Lakip sa ginpang-mensyonar sini nga kontrobersiya batok sa bise-presidente amo si “Mary Grace Piattos”, ang kapangalan sang isa ka popular nga potato chip brand nga isa sa ginlista nga recipient sang confidential funds ni Duterte sa Office of the Vice President (OVP).
Apisar 2024 pa nadiskubrehan ang pangalan nga ini kag iban pa nga makaduluda nga personalidad, wala gihapon nasanagan ang publiko kun sin-o ini bangud wala sang paathag nga ginhatag ang vice president.
“How we wish gid tani nga sa mas temprano ma-impeach siya sa lower house, agud pag-abot sa Senado, mahisayran sang banwa kun bala matuod nga tawo si Mary Grace Piattos, [kag] kun bala husto ang iya paggamit sang confidential funds,” suno kay Oso.
Gindugang man sini ang iban pa nga kontrobersiya sa Department of Education nga ginpamunuan man anay ni Duterte sang yara pa siya sa Marcos Cabinet.
Oso: “How we wish nga ma-impeach dayon [si Sara] sa lower house, kag pag-abot sa Senate, mahublasan naton kag may yara man siya sang kinamatarong agud nga [magsabat] kay wala ya ni ginsabat eh.
Dugay na kita nagapamangkot eh: ‘Matuod bala nga tawo si Piattos, ukon junk food lang?'”
Nagapati man si Oso nga may “kalkalanay sang baho” nga matabo kasunod sang deklarasyon ni Duterte nga magapadalagan ini sa pagka-presidente.
Posible man suno sa JASAC director nga temprano pa nag-anunsyo sang iya presidential bid si Duterte bilang paandam sa mga kongresista sa iya nga plano.
Masami nga nagapanguna si Sara sa mga survey sa pagka-presidente, gani posible suno kay Oso nga pamahog man ini sa mga mamalidha nga indi pabor sa iya sa impeachment case.
Nahibaluan nga napasaka na sa Office of the House Speaker ang ikaapat nga impeachment complaint batok kay Duterte.
Na-impeach anay si Duterte sa Kamara sang Pebrero 5, 2025 matapos nga 215 ka mga kongresista ang nagpirma sa ikaapat man nga complaint batok sa iya.
Ginpasaka ang Articles of Impeachment sa Senado sang amo nga adlaw.
Sang Hulyo 25, gin-anunsyo naman sang Korte Suprema nga unconstitutional ang Articles of Impeachment bangud sa paglapas sa one-year bar rule sang 1987 Constitution.
Sang Enero sini nga tuig, gin-uphold sang Supreme Court ang ila desisyon kag dalayon nga nagbasura sang motion for reconsideration nga gin-file sang Kamara.#
Pagtapna sa political dynasties, ipanawagan man sang Simbahan kadungan sang EDSA anniversary
Ipanawagan man sang Simbahan Katolika kadungan sang mobilisasyon sa ika-40 nga anibersaryo sang EDSA People Power Revolution ang pagtapna sa political dynasties sa Pilipinas.
Meliton Oso, director sang Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center (JASAC), iya ginpahayag nga ini nga dinastiya amo man ang ugat sang kurapsyon.
Suno kay Oso, kadungan sang prusisyon kag prayer rally sa Pebrero 25, ipangamuyo kag ipanawagan sang Simbahan nga mangin sinsero kag seryoso man ang Kongreso sa pagpasar sang mga hagna batok sa nakaandan nga pagpasa-pasa sang gahum sa magpamilya sa pulitika.
Ginbalikan sang JASAC Director ang statement nga gin-isyu sang Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines-Episcopal Commission on Catholic Education, Catholic Educational Association of the Philippines, Simbahang Lingkod ng Bayan, kag Caritas Philippines nga nagapanawagan sa paglakip sang pila ka mga probisyon sa anti-political dynasty bills nga pareho nga pending sa Kamara kag Senado.
EDSA AT 40: Archdiocese of Jaro, magapatigayon sang prayer rally vs kurapsyon kag political dynasty
Isa ang Archdiocese of Jaro sa 86 ka mga diocese kag archdiocese sa bilog nga Pilipinas nga magapatigayon sang pagpangamuyo kag prusisyon kadungan sang ika-40 nga anibersaryo sang EDSA People Power Revolution sa Miyerkules, Pebrero 25.
Sandig sa schedule sang simbahan, alas dos sa hapon sa amo nga adlaw, magatipon ang mga katapo sang Commission on Laity kag nagkalain-lain nga mga parokya para sa Novena sa St.
Halin sa amo nga simbahan, patigayunon ang prusisyon padulong sa Jaro Cathedral kaupod ang duha ka imahen nga amo ang imahen sang Mahal nga Birhen sang Guadalupe kag imahen sang Mahal nga Birhen sang Fatima.
“This will be a prayerful expression of our righteous anger sa makahuluya kag makaulugot nga pagpangurakot sa aton nga pungsod,” suno sa JASAC director.
Ginmensyonar man sini ang political dynasty nga lakip man sa ila ipanawagan nga tapnaon bangud ginakabig man ini nga ugat sang kurapsyon.
Ginkumpirma man sang Kahublagan Kontra Kurapsyon (KKK) nga maga-upod ini sa Simbahan sa amo nga aktibidad sa Pebrero 25.
Sa schedule sang KKK ukon ang multi-sectoral alliance sang mga Ilonggo batok sa kurapsyon, magatipon ang nagkalain-lain nga cause-oriented groups kag protesters sa Iloilo Provincial Capitol 12:30 sang hapon kag pagasundan sang mga ambahanon kag mga speech.
Pareho nga ginapangabay sang KKK kag sang Archdiocese of Jaro ang pagsuksok sang puti nga panapton sa amo nga adlaw.
Tuigan nga ginakomemorar sa Pilipinas ang 1986 EDSA People Power Revolution nga amo ang nagtapos sang diktadurya ni anay Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Sr., ang amay ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.#
Masobra P14-M nga balor sang suspected shabu, nakumpiskar sa drug buy bust sa Balasan
Bag-o lang nakaabot sa Iloilo ang masobra duha ka kilo nga ginapasuni shabu nga nakumpiskar sang mga pulis sa isa ka high value individual sa Barangay Maya sa banwa sang Balasan kaina sang kaagahon.
Nagadangat sa P14,008,000 ang balor sang amo nga droga nga nakuha sa possession sang main subject nga si alias Bimboy, 46, residente sang Barangay Gogo, Estancia, kag yara sa regional target priority list.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Dadjie Delima, head sang Provincial Drug Enforcement Unit sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office, iya ginpahayag nga kahapon sang kaagahon lang nag-abot ang suplay kag pahat-pahaton pa kuntani apang naabtan sang awtoridad.
Suno kay De Lima, sa kinaandan, ang amo sini kadaku nga volume nagahalin sa guwa sang Western Visayas, apang indi pa subong matumod kun diin gid ang partikular ang source bangud wala pa nagakooperar ang suspek.
Magluwas kay alias Bimboy, arestado man sa amo nga drug buy bust pasado ala una kaina sang kaagahon sanday alias Domingo, 63, sang Barangay Maya, Balasan; alyas Jose, 22, sang Brgy.
Poblacion Norte, Balasan; kag alias Concepcion, 21, residente sang Ipil, Balasan.
Suno kay De Lima, nadakpan na sang una si alias Bimboy bangud sa kaso nga kaangot man sa iligal nga droga.
Sandig pa sa pulis, naga-operate ini kag nagahatag sang tag-kinilo-kilo nga droga sa Quinto Distrito kag sa porsyon sang probinsya sang Capiz.
Naglawig sang apat ka bulan ang monitoring sang mga pulis antes dalayon nga nadakpan ang subject nga ginakabig madanlog sa awtoridad.
Nakahunong na ang ginaalegar nga mga durugista sa Balasan Municipal Police Station, kag natalana dal-on sa Regional Forensic Unit 6 para sa laboratory test kag pag-turn over sa nakumpiskar nga drug items.#
Raoul Manuel, nagpangabay nga matigayon na ang impeachment trials batok kay VP Duterte
Nagpangabay si anay Kabataan Party-list representative Raoul Manuel nga matigayon na ang impeachment trials batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ini kasunod man sang pag-anunsyar sang bise presidente nga mapadalagan sya sa pagkapresidente sa 2028.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Manuel, iya ginpahayag nga kun indi masabat sang insakto ni Duterte ang mga pamangkut nahanungod sa budget sang iya opisina, mas dako ang posibilidad nga indi man sini maubra sang insakto ang iya obligasyon sa mas mataas nga posisyon.
Suno pa sa iya, imbes nga hatagan sini sang atensyon ang pagpangampanya kag pagpaguwa nga biktima sya sang political persecution, mas maayo kun magapangatubang anay ini sa grave constitutional charges.
Nagapati man ang anay kongresista nga dapat nga madayun na ang impeachment trial sini agud nga maguwa na ang mga ebidensya kontra sa iya nahanungod sa confidential funds.
WVATCCI, gin-ako nga may ara sila sang paglapas sa ‘Anti-Sardinas Policy’
(WVATCCI) nga may yara sang paglapas ang ila nga mga unit nahanungod sa ‘Anti-Sardinas Policy.’
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Halley Alcarde, Vice President sang nasambit nga kooperatiba, iya ginpahayag nga strikto ang ila opisina sa pagsunod sa mga ginapatuman nga mga ordinansa sang gobyerno, apang may mga tion nga indi mapunggan ang mga pasahero sa pagsakay ilabi na kun rush hour ukon malain ang panahon.
Suno pa kay Alcarde, ginatutukan lang sang Land Transportation Office (LTO) kag Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) ang mga naga overload nga mga modernized jeep.
Apang suno man sa iya, wala sini ginasapak kag wala ginapangdakop ang mga colorum, unregistered kag wala sang prangkisa nga mga jeep.
Bangdu diri, nagapanawagan sila sa mga nasambit nga ahensya nga mangin patas man kun tani ang pagpatuman sang mga ordinansa kag dakpon ang mga nagakadapat nga dakpon.
Madumduman nga mas nangin hugot subong ang pagpangdakup sang mga naga-overload nga mga pampubliko nga salakyan bangud sa naglapta nga social meadia post nga naga reklamo sa tuman kagutok nga modernized jeep.
Suno kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ila nalang nga ginahulat ang kumpirmasyon halin sa Philippine National Police National Headquarters.
Wilbert Parilla, Officer-in-charge sang Iloilo City Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga iya naman nga ginapreparahan ang mga papel nga kinahanglanon antes pa ang opisyal nga seremonya.
Parilla ang nagpungko bilang OIC matapos nga gin-relieve si PCol.
Economic and Trade, pagatutukan sa HLTF-EI
Pagatutukan ang Economic and Trade sa pagahiwaton nga 49th Meeting of the High-Level Task Force on ASEAN Economic Integration (HLTF-EI) sa siudad sang Iloilo nga pagahiwatun sa Pebrero 25 tubtob 27.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga dako ang iya pagpasalamat bangud nga napilian ang syudad sang Iloilo nga mangin host sang nasambit nga aktibidad.
Suno pa sa iya, ini man amo ang tion agud nga mahatagan man sang highlight ang mga heritage houses, pagkaon kag tourist spot sa lugar.
Kaangot diri, nagpakig-angot naman ang alkalde sa Iloilo City Police Office para sa seguridad sang mga ginpaabot nga mga delegado.
Ang mga representative nga magapadulong sa siudad amo ang halin sa mga pungsod kaangay sang Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Timor-Leste kag Vietnam.
ICPO, magadeploy sang police personnel para sa 49th HLTF-EI
Magadeploy sang masobra 1,900 ka mga police personnel ang Iloilo City Police Office para sa paalabuton nga 49th High-Level Task Force on ASEAN Economic Integration sa Pebrero 25 tubtob Pebrero 27,2026.
Ini agud nga mahatag ang nagakaigo nga seguridad sang tanan nga mga delegado.
Wilbert Parilla, Officer-in-Charge sang ICPO, iya ginpahayag nga subong nga adlaw, may ara sang pagahiwaton nga send-off ceremony kun sa diin magaumpisa diri ang pagdeploy sang mga kapulisan sa nagkalain-lain nga area sa siudad.
Pahayag man niya nga magabukas man subong ang Multi-agency coordinating center bangud nga ginalauman nga amat-amat na nga magaabot ang mga participants sa sabado kag dominggo.
Agud man nga masiguro ang kalinungan sa siudad, naghatag man sang suhestyon si Parilla sa Regional Civil Security Unit para patigayunon ang gun ban sa siudad sang Iloilo.
Nahibaluan nga suspendido naman ang face-to-face classes sa Pebrero 25 tubtob Pebrero 27 matapos nga gin-aprubahan ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang rekomendasyon sang Iloilo City Police Office nga kanselahon ang klase para sa paalabuton nga aktibidad sa siudad
PHIVOLCS, nagpaandam sa posible dugang nga malip-ot lang nga paglupok sang Bulkan Kanlaon
Nagpaandam ang Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) sa posible dugang nga ash emissions kag paglupok sang Bulkan Kanlaon sa Negros Island kasunod sang “moderately explosive eruption” kahapon sang hapon, Pebrero 19.
Suno sa ahensya, delikado pa ang sitwasyon sa four-kilometer radius permanent danger zone (PDZ) bangud sa posibilidad sini nga “short-lived explosive eruptions.”
Sa latest eruption bulletin nga gin-release 11:45 kagab-i, ginpahayag sang Phivolcs nga as of press time, wala sang nagdugang nga mga pagtay-og nga maangot sa paglupok sang bulkan kag wala man sang ground deformation.
Nagapabilin man ang status sang bulkan sa Alert Level 2 nga buot silingon yara ini sa moderate level.
Bangud posible suno sa state volcanologists ang dugang nga explosive eruptions, dapat mag-andam ang mga pumuluyo sa mga materyal nga maga-ilig halin sa bulkan kaangay sang pyroclastic density currents (PDCs), ballistic projectiles, rockfalls, volcanic gas kag iban pa nga magahalin sa bisan gamay lamang ukon “minor explosive eruptions.”
Naglupok ang bulkan eksakto 4:38 kahapon sang hapon kag naglawig sang duha ka minutos.
Nagpahanumdom man ang ahensya sa local government units (LGUs) nga magpreparar sa pag-evacuate sa mga residente pananglitan maglala ang sitwasyon sa bulkan kag maglab-ot sa “hazardous worst-case explosive eruption.”
Nagbilin man ang Phivolcs nga mag-andam sa mainit nga lahar kun magbubo ang mamunog nga ulan nga amo ang magapahuyang sang nagtingob nga mga abo kag pyroclastic material sa naibabaw nga slopes sang bulkan.
Ginadumilian man ang mga piloto nga maglikaw sa pagpalupad sang mga aircraft malapit sa baba sang bulkan.
Sa Iloilo naman, nagpaguwa ang banwa sang San Joaquin sang ashfall advisory.
Ginpaandaman ang mga residente nga maghalong bangud posible nga makalab-ot ang abo sa amo nga banwa bangud sa epekto sang northeast monsoon ukon amihan.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga paglupok sang amo nga bulkan sa Negros, naapektuhan sang ashfall pati ang mga kabanwahanan sa Iloilo, Antique, kag Guimaras.#
Simbahan Katoliko, nagapang-agda para sa isa ka hublag-protesta
Liwat nga nagapang-agda sa publiko ang Simbahan Katoliko nga mag-upod sa prayer rally sa siudad sang Iloilo sa Pebrero 25, kadungan sang 40th Anniversary sang EDSA People Power Revolution.
Meliton Oso, iya ginpahayag nga indi lang pagdumdom sa mga hitabo sang EDSA People Power Revolution ang ila nga tinutuyo, kundi amo man ang pagpanawagan nga tapnaon ang kurapsyon sa pungsod.
Suno kay Oso, kaangay sang EDSA People Power Revolution, may gahum gid ang pumuluyo nga mapahalin sa pwesto ang mga tawo sa likod sang malaot nga pagpangurakot sa kwarta sang banwa.
Nahibaluan nga magaupod man ang nanuhay-tuhay nga grupo ukon sektor sa patigayunon nga prayer rally.
Councilor Cabaluna, nagalaum nga madakpan na ang mga suspek sa likod sang motornapping incidents
Dako ang paglaum ni Iloilo City Councilor Sedfrey Cabaluna nga madakpan na ang mga suspek sa likod sang asud-asud nga motornapping incidents sa siudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor cabaluna, iya ginpahayag nga samtang wala pa madakpan ang mga suspek, possible nga nagapangisog man ang iban nga mga may mga plao nga magpangawat sang mga motor.
Pahayag pa niya nga nagakadapat man nga pabaskugon pa ang ordinansa kun sa diin nagarequire sang Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) sa mga nagkalain-lain nga mga establisyamento kag iban pa nga mga lugar agud makabulig nga mas mapadasig ang imbestigasyon sang mga kapulisan sa tion nga may krimen nga magluntad sa isa ka lugar.
Dugang pa niya nga kinahanglan nga magbinuligay sang publiko kag sang mga awtoridad agud nga madasig man nga masolbar ang mga kaangay nga insidente.
Anti-Sardinas Policy, dako ang epekto sa mga pasahero
Aminado ang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative nga dako gid ang epekto sang ‘Anti Sardinas Policy’ sa ila nga mga pasahero.
Ang amo nga polisa ang nagadumili nga magsobra sa passenger capacity sang isa ka pampubliko nga salakyan ang mga sakay nga pasahero.
Madumduman nga mas nangin hugot ang pagpatuman sang polisa matapos nga naglapta sa social media ang video kun sa diin nagaginutok nga daw sardinas ang mga pasahero sa isa ka modernized jeepney.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raymundo Boyet Parcon, Chair sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, iya ginpahayag nga madamo sa mga pasahero ang nagapamilit pa sa gihapon nga magsakay sa ila unit bisan pa nga ginadumilian na magsulod bangud man sa kakulang sang mga salakyan.
Apang hugot man nga nagapamalibad ang mga driver kag kundoktor sa ila nga mga unit bangud man sa dako nga penalidad nga ila pagaatubangun kun sila ang madakpan.
Dugang pa ni Parcon, may ginapaabot sila nga dugang nga mga unit agud nga mahagan-hagan naman ang pagpugok sang mga pasahero ilabi na kun rush hour.
Naglupok ang Bulkan Kanlaon sa isla sang Negros subong nga hapon, Pebrero 19, 2026.
Ginalauman naman ang ashfall sa mga lugar nga yara sa palibot sang bulkan.
Bangkay sang isa ka lalaki, nasapwan sa bahin sang C1 Rd.
Sooc, Arevalo, Iloilo City kaina sang aga
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka lalaki sa bahin sang C1 Rd.
Sooc, Arevalo, Iloilo City kaina sang aga.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ricardo Togado, Punong Barangay sang Brgy.
Sooc, Arevalo, iya ginpahayag nga ginpahibalo ini sang isa ka Barangay Tanod nga may bangkay sang lalaki nga nakit-an sa bakhawan nga area malapit sa tulay sang amo nga lugar.
Dugang pa sini nga indi pumuluyo sang Sooc ang amo nga indibdiwal, bangud indi kilala sang iya mga pumuluyo ang amo nga lalaki.
Wala man sang CCTV sa bahin sang amo nga dalanun, rason nga nabudlayan man ang mga ini mag-identify sang kabangdanan sang kamatayun sang amo nga persona.
Coffee growers sa banwa sang Igbaras, nagapamayagpag sa lokal nga industriya sang kape sa Iloilo
Nagapamayagpag sa lokal nga industriya sang kape sa Iloilo ang mga coffee growers sa banwa sang Igbaras.
Tigbanaba, Igbaras, nagatuyo nga indi lang mangin isa ka negosyo sa ila komunidad ang pagpananum sang kape, kundi buhion man ang coffee industry sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ernesto Elgario Emano Jr., Quality Control Manager sang SBBCGA, iya ginpahayag nga apisar madamo sila sang naagyan nga mga pagpanghangkat, padayon gihapon ang mga ini sa ila kawsa, asta nga nangin supplier na ang mga ini sang coffee beans sa nagkalain-lain nga coffee shops sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Tuyo man sang grupo nga solusyunan ang problema sang ‘aging farmers’ ukon naga-edad nga mga mangunguma, nga isa sa mga rason sang pagnubo sang produksyon sa nagkalain-lain nga sector sang agrikultura.
Nagpanawagan man ang mga ini sa mga pamatan-on sa karun, nga magbalik kag mag-invest sa sektor sang agrikultura, agud mapabakod ang industriya kag masiguro ang padayon nga pag-uswag sang lokal nga agrikultura.
Matandaan man nga sang damlag lang, nagdisisyon ang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga magabukas ang mga ini sang bag-o nga talatapan nga magapokus sa pagpauswag sang industriya sang kape sa Pilipinas nga mangin dako nga bulig sa kaangay nga grupo sang mga mamumugon nga tuyo magpaumwad sang amo nga produkto.
Kris Aquino, nagahanda na sa isa sa pinakamabudlay nga pagpabulong sa iya autoimmune disease
Nagahanda na subong ang Queen of All Media nga si Kris Aquino para sa isa sa pinakamabudlay sini nga journey sa iya nagapadayon nga pagpabulong sa iya autoimmune disease.
Ginpakigbahin sini sa iya social media ang ini nga balita pila ka adlaw matapos ang iya ika-55 nga kaadlawan.
Suno kay Kris, apisar nga indi sini mahambal pa ang matuod sini nga sitwasyon sa iya ikaayong lawas apang kinahanglan sini nga mangin maisog.
Gina-look forward man sini nga maka-abot sa 68 anyos ang iya edad nga suno pa sa iya isa sa pinakamanami nga kagustuhan niya sa iya kabuhi.
Ginpakigbahin man sini nga maga-host ini sa isa ka home-tour sa masunod nga mga inadlaw.
Nahibaluan nga madugay na nga nagapakigbato si Kris sa pila ka mga autoimmune disease, apang permi man ini nagalaom sa iya pag-ayo.
Sa karon nagapabilin ang aktres-host sa ospital sa sulod na sang anom ka semana bangud sa iya operasyon.
Nagapasalamat man ini sa anay sini nobyo nga si Dr.
Mike Padlan sa pagbulig sa iya journey sa pagpa-ayo sa kaangay sini nga sakit.
Temporaryo nga pagpasarado sang Jalandoni Flyover para sa rectification works sang DPWH, aprubado na
Gin-aprubahan na sang konseho ang temporaryo nga pagpasarado sang Jalandoni Flyover para sa isa ka rehabilitation ukon rectification matapos ang pila ka mga reported incidents bangud sa madanlog nga asphalt overlay.
Madumduman nga sang tuig 2025, bulan sang Setyembre tubtob Disyembre, temporaryo nga ginpasarado ang bahin sang nasambit nga flyover para sa asphalt patching kag overlay works.
Apang matapos ang pag-reconstruct sang flyover, madamo sa mga motorista ang nagareklamo nga halos indi sila makapreno bangud sa madanlog nga aspalto.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Sedfrey Cabaluna, Committee Chair sang Public Safety and Transportation, iya ginpahayag nga nagpadala sila sang sulat kay Engr.
Denise Maria Ayag, Regional Director sang Department of Public Works and Highways agud nga liwat nga kay-uhon ang madanlog nga asphalt overlay sa Jalandoni Flyover.
Natalana ang rectification sang flyover humalin Pebrero 21 tubtob Marso 21.
15th Sangguniang Panlalawigan, gin-imbitar ang DILG nahanungod sa Memorandum Circular No.
Imbitaran sang 15th Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang Department of the Interior and Local Government Region 6 agud nga maklaruhan ang provincial board nahanungod sa memorandum nga nagadumili sa pagbyahe sang mga government owned vehicles kun weekend kag holiday.
2026-011, amo ang nagalakip sa tanan nga opisyal kag ahensya sa idalom sang DILG nga nagapaandam sa kun sin-o man ang magabayolar ang magapangatubang sang Administrative ukon Criminal liabilities santo sa existing laws, rules, kag regulations.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Vice Governor Nathalie Ann Debuque, iya ginpahayag nga sa question hour sa 31st regular session sang Sangguninang Panlalawigan, nagpahayag ang pila ka mga board members nga luyag nila nga maklaruhan nahanungod sa nasambit nga memorandum.
Suno kay Debuque, indi gid malikawan nga kun kaisa may ara sang mga adlaw kun sa diin ginaimbitaran sila ukon may responsibilidad sila bilang isa ka public official bisan pa nga weekend ukon holiday.
Pahayag man sang bise gobernador, mas maayo nga mapalab-ot sang DILG ang mas klaro nga pagsulundan para sa ila agud nga mas mahibal-an sang mga opisyal ang limitasyon sang nasambit nga memorandum.
Gubaon kag delikado nga covered gym sa Brgy.
Ginpa-Bombo sang isa ka residente sang Barangay Tanza, City Proper ang ila covered gym bangud sa delikado nga sitwasyon sini.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Hilary Tamon, isa ka concerned citizen iya ginpahayag nga tuman na ka gabok ang roofing sang covered gym kag may posibilidad nga maguba ini ilabi na kon magkusog ang ulan ukon hangin.
Ginpahayag man sini nga wala sang nagakaigo nga sabat ukon solusyon halin sa Local Government Unit (LGU) bisan pa nga ginpahibalo na nila ang nasambit nga problema.
Suno pa kay Tamon ginahimo nga lugar sang mga kabataan ang covered gym agud venue sang ila aktibidad sa barangay.
Bangud sini, ginakabalak-an sang mga residente ang posible nga aksidente nga matabo kon indi ini mahatagan sang solusyon gilayon ang problema.
Nagapanawagan man si Tamon kay Mayor Raisa Treñas nga kuntani paagi sa ila pagdangop sa Bombo mabtian sang alkalde ang ila hibubun-ot bangud seguridad sang mga tawo sa ila barangay ang nakataya sa nasambit nga problema.
Dugang pa ni Tamon, kuntani mahatagan gilayon sang atensyon ang problema antes pa man may matabo nga disgrasya.
Nagpangayo na sang bulig ang mga opisyal sang Barangay Tanza, City Proper sa opisina ni Cong.
Jam Jam Baronda sang nagligad nga Oktubre bangud sa delikado nga kahimtangan sang atup sang covered gym sa ila lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Kagawad Rowena Arsenio, iya ginpahayag nga ginaproseso na sa subong ang mga papeles may kaangtanan sa nasambit nga concern.
Ang nasambit nga covered gym kabahin pa sang proyekto sang una ni Mayor Jed Mabilog kun sa diin iya man ginpahayag nga ginagamit man ini bilang evacuation center kon may kalamidad.
Mayor Treñas, nagpasalig sa mga pamilya nga nasunugan sa Brgy.
Benedicto, Jaro nga makabaton sang financial assistance
Nagpasalig si Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas nga ang tanan nga pamilya nga naapektuhan sang sunog sa Barangay Benedicto, Jaro ang makabaton sang financial assistance.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga buligan sang Iloilo City Government ang 83 ka mga households nga apektado sang insidente agud makabangon kag makasugod liwat sa ila pagpangabuhi.
Base sa latest nga nga narekord sang syudad, naglab-ot na sa 106 ka pamilya ukon 366 ka indibidwal ang naapektuhan sang sunog.
Sa amo nga numero, tatlo ka balay ang partially damaged samtang 80 naman ang totally damaged.
Sa karon, may 88 ka pamilya nga ginabug-usan sang 317 ka indibidwal ang nagatinir subong sa evacuation center.
Gin-activate man sang City Government ang community kitchen nga sa subong nagaserbe sang pagkaon sa mga evacuees.
Padayon man ang koordinasyon sang mga city department kag barangay officials agud mapadasig ang paghatag sang bulig kag suporta sa mga apektado sang sunog.
PB sang Benedicto, Jaro, indi makontrol ang obstruction sa dalan rason nabudlayan ang BFP sa pagresponde sa sunog
Gin-ako sang barangay kapitan sang Brgy.
Benedicto, Jaro nga indi nila makontrol ang mga obstruction sa dalan kun sa diin halos indi na masudlan sang fire truck.
Amo ini ang rason kun ngaa nabudlayan ang Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) sa pagresponde sang nagluntad nga sunog sa lugar kahapon sang hapon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Abelardo Salting, ginpahayag sini nga may mga illegally parked man nga mga salakyan kag nakaapekto ini sa pagresponde sang mga bombero.
Suno pa sa iya nagdugang pa gid ang kabudlayan kahapon sa pagresponde sa sunog bangud may nag-guba sang dry standpipe (dry hydrant system) kag may nagkawat pa sang cappling.
Sa karon nagapanawagan si Punong barangay Salting sa publiko nga hatagan man sang bulig ang mga biktima.
Nagpangabay man ini nga indi na lang magbinasulay ang mga pumuluyo sa natabo nga sunog.
Ginkawatan sang motor sa Tanza Zone 1, Brgy.
Nagpa-Bombo ang tag iya sang isa ka motorsiklo nga biktima man sang motornapping sang nagligad nga Pebrero 14.
Suno sa tag-iya, gin-park lang sini ang iya motorsiklo nga RS HONDA 125 Fi 2023 nga may plate number nga F989AW sa tabok sang isa ka laundry shop sa kilid dalan sa Tanza Zone 1, Brgy.
Suno pa sa tag-iya mga alas-10:20 sang gab-i sang ginbilin lang sini ang iya motorsiklo.
Apang sang gin-check na sini las-12:00 sang tungang gab-i, wala na ang iya nga motorsiklo.
Gilayon man sini nga ginpa-blotter ang insidente sa Iloilo City Police Station 7 apang asta sa karon padayon pa ang imbestigasyon.
Kasunod naman sang bag-o nga kaso sang motornapping, ginmando ni Mayor Raisa Treñas sa Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sa pagpanguna ni Director PCol.
Wilbert Parilla nga tutukan ang imbestigasyon sa nasambit nga mga kaso.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Trenas, iya ginpahayag nga samtang padayon ang imbestigasyon, hugot man ang pagbantay sang kapulisan agud matapna ini nga pagkinawatay.
Ginpanawagan man sang mga otoridad sa publiko nga mag-report gilayon sang insidente agud ma-track ang mga suspek sang pagpangawat sang motorsiklo.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa mga tag-iya sang motorsiklo nga siguruhon ang pag-lock sang ila salakyan kag indi pagbilin ang yabi agud indi mahatagan sang tsansa ang mga kriminal nga makahimo sang ila iligal nga buluhaton.
Isa ka iloy, wala gid sang may nasalbar sa gamit sang iya duwa ka bulan nga bata sa sunog sa Benedicto, Jaro
Naubos sunog kag wala gid sang may nasalbar ang isa ka iloy sa mga gamit nga gin-amat-amat bakal sini sa iya duwa ka bulan nga bata.
Ini kasunod sang natabo nga sunog sa Benedicto, Jaro kahapon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mary Joy Lopez, iya ginpahayag nga nalakip man sa nasunog ang gintingob sini bakal nga mga diapers, wipes, duha ka kilo nga gatas, kag iban pa nga kagamitan sang ila bata nga suno pa sa iya ila gid kuntani ginsuptan sang iya partner.
Suno pa sa iya naubos man dala sa sunog ang ginbakal nila nga mga gamit para sa bunyag sang ila bata sa Abril kaangay sang mga souvenir para sa mga maninoy kag maninay.
Sa pihak sang natabo, nagapasalamat sa gihapon ang pamilya sini nga wala sang may nasamaran ila pamilya bangud sa insidente.
Sa karon nagatinir sila sa evacuation center kag suno pa sa iya nga padayon sila nga ginahatagan sang bulig sang City Government.
Nagapasalamat man ini sa City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO), nga naghatag sa ila sang bulig kaangay sang folding beds, foam, tubig, pagkaon, kag ila mga bayo agud temporaryo nila nga magamit samtang nagapabilin ang mga ini sa evacuation center.
Grupo nga Bayan Panay, ginhangkat ang mga local nga opisyal sang siyudad sang Iloilo nga mag-commute
Ginhangkat sang grupo nga Bayan Panay ang mga local nga opisyal sang siyudad sang Iloilo nga mag-commute.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elmer Forro, Secretary General sang Bayan Panay, iya ginpahayag nga dapat mabatyagan man sang mga opisyal ang kabudlay sang mga commuters nga naga-antos sa kakulang sang Public Utility Vehicle (PUV), overloaded nga mga modernized jeepney, kag magutok nga dalan sa siyudad.
Ginpaathag ni Forro nga dugay na ini nga problema sang siyudad, apang hasta subong, wala gihapon ini nasolusyunan.
Nagpanawagan man ang grupo sa publiko nga mag-upod sa ila kampanya kontra kurapsyon kag ipangabay sa lokal nga gobyerno ang nagakaangay nga solusyon sa problema sa transportasyon.
Ginhatagan man nila importansya ang accountability sang mga opisyal sang gobyerno sang Pilipinas nga ginakabig nga kurap.
Archdiocese of Jaro, nagpahanumdom sa publiko nga likawan gid ang paghimo sang ‘ambush badlis’ sa Ash Wednesday
Nagpahanumdom ang Archdiocese of Jaro sa publiko nga likawan gid ang paghimo sang ‘ambush badlis’ sa Ash Wednesday.
Ang ambush badlis amo ang pamatasan sang isa ka tawo nga magpadulong lang sa simbahan agud magpabadlis, apang indi magtambong sa aktwal nga misa sa tion sang Miyerkules sang Badlis.
Angelo Colada, Director sang Jaro Archdiocesan Commission on Social Communication, iya ginpahayag nga magapatigayon ang simbahan sang paraliturgical services sa nagkalain-lain nga establisyimento sa siyudad para sa Ash Wednesday.
Paathag ni Colada nga paagi sini, maakomodar ang mga tawo nga indi makapadulong sa simbahan sa tion sang misa.
Suportado man ni Colada ang panawagan sang Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) sa mga tumuluo nga magpuasa indi lamang sa pagkaon kundi pati sa paggamit sang cellphone kag social media.
Paathag niya nga paagi sini, may kahigayunan ang kada isa nga maghatag sang tion sa pagpangamuyo kag pagkilala sa Diyos.
CSWDO, padayon ang paghatag sang bulig sa mga pumuluyo nga apektado sang sunog sa Brgy.
Padayon ang paghatag sang bulig sang City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO) sa mga pumuluyo nga nasunugan sa Barangay Benedicto, Jaro, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ellen Solido, CSWDO representative sa distrito sang Jaro, iya ginpahayag nga base sa ila latest nga record, naglab-ot sa 83 ang total number sang households nga apektado, samtang 106 naman ka pamilya ukon 366 ka indibidwal ang apektado sang insidente.
Sa amo nga numero, tatlo ka balay ang partially damaged kag 80 naman ang totally damaged.
Sa karon, may 88 ka pamilya ang nagadayun sa evacuation center, nga ginabug-usan sang 317 ka indibidwal, samtang 18 naman ka pamilya ang nagatiner sa sagwa nga evacuation area nga may kabug-usan nga 49 ka indibidwal.
Nagapanawagan ang mga biktima sang sunog sang dugang nga bulig, ilabi na sa personal nga mga kinahanglanon pareho sang panapton kag iban pa nga mga gamit, bangud halos wala gid sila sang may nasalbar nga pagkabutang.
Nagpasalig man ang City Government sang Iloilo nga magahatag sang financial assistance agud makabangon kag makasugod liwat ang mga apektado nga pamilya.
PB sang Benedicto Jaro, gin-ako nga wala sang mahatag nga pinansyal nga bulig sa mga nasunugan
Gin-ako sang pamunuan sang Barangay Benedicto, Jaro, Iloilo City nga wala sila sang mahatag nga pinansyal nga bulig sa mga pumuluyo nga nadala sa sunog nga nadala kahapon sang hapon, Pebrero 16.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo PB Abelardo Salting Jr.
Punong Barangay sang nasambit nga lugar nga wala sang nagakaigo nga pondo ang barangay agud makahatag sang cash assistance sa mga pumuluyo nga apektado.
Apisar sini naghatag naman sang inisyal nga bulig ang City Social Development Office Iloilo City lakip na ang folding beds, foam, kitchen kits kag hygiene kits para sa mga naapektuhan nga residente.
May patigayunon man nga emergency meeting ang mga opisyal sang barangay agud istoryahan ang dugang nga tikang kag posible nga mga bulig nga mahatag pa gid sa mga pumuluyo nga apektado sang insidente.
Nahibaluan nga naglab-ot sa masobra P600,000 ang halit nga ginbilin sang sunog nga nagluntad sa Brgy.
Base sa datos sang Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) Iloilo City Station, 52 tanan ka balay ang ginlamon sang kalayo kun sa diin 4 ang partially damage kag 48 ang totally damaged.
249 indibidwal naman ang apektado sang sunog nga nagapabilin sa karon sa Multipurpose Building sang nasambit nga barangay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Fire Superintendent Melanie Habawel City Fire Marshall sang Iloilo City Fire Station, iya ginpahayag nga base sa ila inisyal nga imbestigasyon, electrical in nature ang ginalantaw nga ginhalinan sang sunog sa isa ka balay kun sa diin human sa concrete kag light materials ini.
Suno kay Fire Superintendent Habawel, nahibaluan nga wala sang tawo ang balay nga ginhalinan sang sunog.
Pahayag pa niya, wala sang casualties nga narekord apang may ara sang ginrespondehan nga mga indibidwal nga naglain ang pamatyag, napilasan kag minor burns.
Gindugang pa ni Fire Superintendent Habawel, nagapadayon pa sa gihapon ang ila imbestigasyon sa nagluntad nga sunog sa nasambit nga barangay.
Mayor Treñas, pagatutukan ang mga kabataan nga naga-baligya kag naga-panghalit sa dalanon sa syudad
Nagmando si Mayor Raisa Treñas nga pagatutukan sang Public Order and Safety Management Office (POSMO), kaupod ang Task Force BADJAO kag City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO) ang mga naga-baligya kag naga-panghalit sang mga salakyan sa mga stoplight sa syudad ilabi na sa Diversion Road, Madurriao, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Goprzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga nagmando ang alkalde nga i-identify ang mga kabataan kag kag kun sa diin ang mga ini nagapuyo agud mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga interbensyon.
Ini kasunod sang reklamo nga ginreport matapos gin-kuritan sang isa ka menor de edad ang salakyan sang isa ka motorista bangud wala ini nagbakal sa iya ginabaligya.
Suno sa reklamo, nagamit ang bata sang tanzan sa pagkurit sa salakyan.
May iban man nga ginreport nga naga-baligya sa tunga sang dalan, nga ginakabig delikado bangud posible ini makaluntad sa disgrasya kun sa diin kalabanan sa ila amo ang mga menor de edad nga nagapang-ayo-ayo.
Gintap man sang syudad ang nagkalain-lain nga ahensya lakip ang POSMO kag Task Force BADJAO agud mag-deploy sang personnel sa lugar kun sa diin masami ini nagaktabo.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw may ara sang na-rescue ang CSWDO nga mga kabataan nga anom ka mga menor de eded kag ginturn-over naman ini sa tagsa nila ka mga barangay.
“Kaangay sang Martial Law ang tikang sang NBI sa pagpasaka sang kaso nga cyberlibel”-Jeffrey Celiz
Ginakabig sang isa ka social media personality kag commentator nga si Jeffrey ”Ka Eric” Celiz nga kaangay sang madulom nga hitabo sa Martial law ang tikang sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) nga pagpasaka sang ila sang kaso nga cyber libel kaupod ang anay journalist nga Jay Sonza sa gina-alegar nga pagpalapta sang peke nga medical information ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Celiz, iya ginpahayag nga indi isa ka malisyoso nga topiko ang pagpahayag sang kahimtangan sang ikaayong lawas sang Presidente bangud ini ang Commander-in-Chief sang Armed Forces of the Philippines kag nagaserbe man bilang head of government kag head of state sang pungsod.
Suno sa iya, kinahanglan mahibaluan sang publiko kun may yara pa sang mental kag pisikal nga kapasidad ang Presidente agud magpadayon sa iya responsibilidad.
Gin-ako man sini nga wala ini nagpalapta sang gina-alegar nga medical report sang Presidente, kag ang iya mga pahayag nakabase lamang sa mga opisyal nga pahayag sang Malacañang pinaagi kay Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro.
Ginpahayag pa ni Celiz, indi pribado nga tawo ang Presidente bangud may dako nga implikasyon sa national security concern kag national public interest ini.
Dugang pa sini, wala sang malain kun maghatag sang komento ang mga tawo sa nagakatabo sa gobyerno bangud kabahin ini sang demokrasya kag indi dapat pagpauntaton kag pahipuson paagi sa mga kaangay nga butang.
Nagpahanumdum man ini sa publiko nga mangin mabinantayon sa mga nagakatabo sa gobyerno bangud isa ini sa magamit sang mga ini agud mapakigbato ang ila kinamatarong kag ang hustisya nga kinahanglan sang mga Pilipino.
Nagapanawagan sang bulig ang mga residente sang Brgy.
Benedicto, Jaro, matapos ang nagluntad nga sunog sa ila barangay kahapon nga adlaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Kath, isa man sa mga nasunugan, iya ginpahayag nga lawas lang gid nila ang ila nasalbar sa nagluntad nga sunog.
Nagapasalamat man ini nga luwas sila tanan sang iya mga kaupod sa balay, apang nagakasubo man ini bangud nga wala na sila sang puluy-an nga pagabalikan.
Madumduman nga naglab-ot sa 4th alarm ang nasambit nga sunog antes ini nga napalong.
Nagdangat naman sa 52 ka mga balay ang natupok sang kalayo kun sa diin 48 diri ang totally damaged kag 4 naman ang partially damaged.
Sa subong, temporaryo nga nagadayon ang mga apektado nga mga residente sa Barangay Hall sang Brgy.
Benedicto, samtang ang iban naman ang nagtinir sa ila nga mga himata.
Nahibaluan nga naghatag naman sang bulig ang syudad sang Iloilo, lakip na ang pagpadala sang folding bed, foam kag tubig para sa mga residente.
Apektado nga balay sa nagluntad nga sunog sa Brgy.
Naglab-ot sa 52 ka mga balay ang apektado sang sunog kun sa diin 48 diri ang totally damaged kag 4 naman ang partially damaged.
Ini matapos ang nagluntad nga sunog sa Brgy.
Base sa impormasyon, kalabanan sa mga residente ang wala na nakasalbar sang ila nga mga gamit bangud sa madasig nga paglapta sang kalayo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Kagawad Ronie Prusia sang Brgy.
Benedicto kag isa sa mga nasunugan, iya ginpahayag nga ido lang nila ang iya nasalbar.
Ini matapos nga kalabanan sa mga balay amo ang human sa mga light materials kag naga-ililingud lang ang mga ini rason man sa dayun nga paglapta sang sunog.
Suno pa kay Prusia, gintinguhaan pa niya nga patyon ang kalayo sa ila nga chapel gamit ang fire extinguisher, apang wala gid ini napalong.
Dugang pa niya, temporaryo sila nga magatinir sa iya nga utod matapos nga nasunog ang ila balay.
Indibidwal nga nagpangawat samtang may sunog, dakop sang mga awtoridad
Dakop ang isa ka kawatan matapos nga ini nga nagtuyo nga magpangawat sang isa ka laptop samtang may nagluntad sunog sa bahin sang Brgy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Oliver Leonor, isa ka concerned citizen, iya ginpahayag nga nagabulig sa una ang indibidwal sa mga nasunugan, antes ini nga magpangawat.
Pahayag ni Leonor, gintago pa sang suspek ang laptop sa sulod sang iya panapton agud nga indi makit-an sang mga residente nga nagkawat ini sang isa ka gamit.
Gilayon man nga nadakpan ang suspek nga ginpahayag residente sang Brgy.
Jereos kag gindala sa Iloilo City Police Station 9.
Sunog, nagluntad sa isa ka residential area sa Brgy.
Nagluntad ang isa ka sunog sa isa ka residential area sa Brgy.
Sa pahayag sang isa ka residente sang nasambit nga lugar, wala na sila nakapanghimos sang ila gamit bangud sa madasig nga naglapta sang kalayo.
Suno man sa iya, gulpi lang sila nakabati sang paglupok sa kaingud nila nga panimalay kun sa diin ini amo ang ginapahayag nga ginhalinan sang sunog.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Senior Fire Officer 1 (SFO) Denmark Macoco, Chief Investigator sang Iloilo Fire Station, iya ginpahayag nga ginabulubanta nga yara sa 7 tubtob 10 ka mga panimalay ang nasunog.
Suno sa iya nga madasig nga naglapta ang kalayo bangud sa mabaskug nga dapya sang hangin kag halos human sa mga light materials ang mga naga-ingudikit-ikit nga mga panimalay.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa mga nagbulig sa ila nga mga residente agud nga madasig nga magpalong ang kalayo.
Nahibaluan nga ginpahayag nga fire out naman naman ang sunog alas 2:26 sang hapon.
Presyo sang gasolina magataas sang P1.20, samtang diesel kag kerosene may pagsaka man sang P0.60 kada litro
Liwat nga magataas ang presyo sang gasolina subong nga semana, ini na ang ika-anom nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga nagtaas ini.
Samtang, ika-walo naman nga sunod-sunod nga semana ang pagtaas para presyo sa diesel kag sa kerosene.
Gasolina-magataas sang P1.20 Diesel- magataas sang P0.60 Kerosene-magataas sang P0.60
Epektibo ini las sais buwas nga adlaw sang Martes, Pebrero 17
Una na nga nag-project ang Department of Energy–Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) sang pagtaas sang produktong petrolyo subong nga semana bangud sa pagaka-delay sang suplay sa Strait of Hormuz kag wala sang kasiguraduhan nga negosasyon sa nuclear program sang Iran.
BFP, nagpaathag nga wala sila nagkulang sa pagresponde sa sunog nga nagluntad sa Barangay Balabago, Jaro, Iloilo City
Ginpaathag sang katapo sang Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) nga wala sila nagkulang sa pagresponde sa sunog nga nagluntad sa Barangay Balabago, Jaro, Iloilo City kaina sang kaagahon.
Ini matapos ginbatikos ang ahensya bangud sa alegasyon nga mahinay ang ila pagresponde sa insidente nga nagresulta sa pagkamatay sang 24-anyos nga isa ka Criminology graduate.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Senior Fire Officer 1 (SFO) Denmark Macoco, Chief Investigator sang Iloilo Fire Station, iya ginpahayag nga nakabaton ang ila estasyon sang fire call las-3:08 sang kaagahon kag gilayon man sila nga nagresponde pakadto sa lugar sang insidente.
Suno pa kay Macoco, las-3:38 sang kaagahon gindeklarar nga fire under control ang nasambit nga sunog, nga nagapakita nga madasig ang ila pagresponde sa nasambit nga insidente.
Ang amo nga pahayag sang BFP ang nagaathag sa una nga pahayag sang pamilya sang biktima nga nag-alegar nga halos isa ka oras antes nakaresponde ang mga bombero sa lugar.
Kagawad kag anay pulis, arestado sa drug buy bust sa Dingle; P2.1-M nga shabu, nakumpiskar
Arestado ang tatlo ka mga indibidwal lakip ang anay pulis kag incumbent barangay kagawad sa ginpatigayon nga drug buy bust sa Brgy.
Ang nagkaladakpan amo sanday Alyas Ed, 51, anay myembro sang Philippine National Police; Alyas Kor, 55, number 1 nga incumbent nga kagawad sang nasambit nga lugar; kag Alyas Jr, isa ka Street Level Individual (SLI).
Nagdangat sa 310 gramos ang kabug-usan nga nakumpiska nga ginapasuni nga shabu nga may standard drug price nga P2,108,000.
Ang amo nga operasyon ang ginpangunahan sang Provincial Drug Enforcement Unit (PDEU).
Nahunong ang mga arestado sa Dingle Municipal Police Station kag natalana nga mag-atubang sa panumbungon nga paglapas sa Republic Act 9165 ukon Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.#
Criminology graduate, patay sa sunog sa talyer sa Jaro, Iloilo City
Patay ang isa ka 24-anyos nga lalaki matapos na-trap sa sunog sa isa ka talyer sa Barangay Balabago, Jaro, Iloilo City kaina sang kaagahon.
Ang biktima amo si Rustom Ancita nga graduate sang Criminology sa University of Iloilo kag naga-preparar na kuntani sa pasinawan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Antonio Jacoba, iya ginpahayag nga sandig sa iban nga mga pumuluyo sa lugar, may nabatian sila nga naglupok kadungan sang sunog.
Suno sa opisyal, nakaguwa man sa balay ang iban nga mga utod sang biktima, apang posible nga naulihi ini bugtaw bangud sa separado man ini nga tululugan.
sang ginpasaka ang first alarm status, 3:38 a.m.
sang gindeklarar nga fire under control, kag 3:53 naman sang dalayon nga napalong sang mga bombero ang sunog.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo sa amay nga si Lito Ancita, amay sang biktima, iya ginpahayag nga halin pa sa Antique ang iya anak kag may kaugalingon naman nga pamilya.
Pahayag sini, gab-i na siya nakapauli kagab-i, kag namurag-muragan lang ini kaina sang kaagahon sang ginpukaw siya nga nasunog na ang ila nga talyer.
Dugang sini, sa atop sang ila balay naghalin ang kalayo.
Posible suno sa iya nga kuryente ang rason sang sunog ilabi na bangud may power interruption kahapon.
Magluwas sa ila talyer, may mga nasunog man nga motor, generator, kag iban pa nga kagamitan.
Gina-imbestigaran pa sang awtoridad kun ano ang ginhalinan sang insidente.#
Tatlong buwan na fishing ban sa Visayan Sea, natapos na
Maaari nang bumalik sa kanilang operasyon ang mga komersyal na mangingisda sa conservation area ng Visayan Sea matapos i-lift ang ipinatupad na fishing ban.
Batay sa anunsyo ng Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR), natapos kahapon, Pebrero 15, ang closed fishing season para sa haul-haol (sardinas), japayuki (mackerel), at tawilis (herring).
Sinimulan ang pagbabawal sa pangingisda ng naturang mga species noong Nobyembre 15, 2025.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo kay BFAR Region 6 Director Remia Aparri, sinabi niya na layunin ng taunang closure na mapanatili at maparami ang populasyon ng mga nabanggit na isda sa Visayan Sea—isa sa pinakamalaki at pinakamahalagang fishing ground sa bansa.
Mahalaga rin ang hakbang na ito para sa pangmatagalang seguridad sa pagkain at katatagan ng ekonomiya ng mga nakapalibot na bayan, lalo’t tinatayang mahigit 100,000 mangingisda ang nakadepende rito para sa kanilang kabuhayan.
Ayon pa sa ahensya, ang pagtaas ng suplay ng sardinas at mackerel sa Northern Iloilo at Antique tuwing tag-init ay patunay na epektibo ang taunang pagpapatupad ng fishing ban.
Nagtulungan din ang mahigit 20 lokal na pamahalaan sa mga lalawigan ng Iloilo, Capiz, Negros Occidental, at Cebu, kasama ang marine authorities at mga lokal na komunidad ng mangingisda, sa pagpapatupad ng rest period o tinatawag ng mga lokal na “pahuway sang baybay.”
Madamo nga guba sa ngipon, nagapataas sang risgo sang cardiovascular disease, diabetes kag respiratory infections suno sa isa ka dental health expert
Nagpaathag ang isa ka dental health expert nga ang problema sa dental health sang isa ka tawo ang may daku nga kontribusyon sa iya kabug-usan nga ikaayong lawas.
Hermina Ballesta Gonzales, iya ginpahayag nga kun ang isa ka tawo ang may madamo sang guba nga ngipon, mas mataas ang risgo sini nga makaangkon sang masakit pareho sang cardiovascular disease, diabetes kag respiratory infections.
Gonzales nga ang bacteria halin sa baba ang mahimo magsulod sa bloodstream kag magkadto sa nagkalain-lain nga parte sang lawas, ilabi na sa tagipusuon, nga mahimo magresulta sa mas seryoso nga komplikasyon sa lawas sang isa ka tawo.
Ginpaandam man niya ang publiko nga seryosohon ang pag-amlig sang ila dental health kag indi ini pagpatumbayaan, bangud ini kabahin sang kabug-usan nga kaayuhan sang lawas.
Nahibaluan man nga subong nga bulan sang Pebrero ginaselebrar ang ‘Dental Health Month’ sa bilog nga pungsod bilang kabahin sang padayon nga kampanya sa paghatag sang impormasyon nahanungod sa pag-amlig sang oral health.
Iloilo City Councilor Duron, ipatawag ang BFAR kag DENR nahanungod sa Fishpond Lease Agreement sa 60 ka ektarya nga Mangrove area sa Brgy.
Nakatalana nga ipatawag ni Iloilo City Councilor Romel Duron ang Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) kag Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) kun paano nakakuha sang Fishpond Lease Agreement (FLA) ang 60 ka ektarya nga Mangrove area sa bahin sang Brgy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Duron, iya ginpahayag nga sa palaabuton nga Huwebes, Pebrero 19, 2026, iya ipatawag ang BFAR kag DENR sa isa ka committee hearing sang City Council agud nga maklaruhan kag masabat ang tanan sini nga palamangkutanon natuhoy sa amo nga isyu.
Dugang pa sini nga kun matuod nga may fishpond sa amo nga lugar, kinahanglan sang mga ini sikyarun ang permit halin sa city council agud nga maka-operate.
Matandaan nga ang ginapahayag nga Fishpond ang nakapangalan sa Diego Agri Aqua and Land Ventures, nga may lease agreement nga may petsa nga Pebrero 28, 2025 kag may numero nga 6351, kun sa diin sakop sini ang halos 35 ka ektarya sang lugar.
Napetsahan man nga Pebrero 28,2025 ang isa ka agreement nga may numbero nga FLA No.
3483-8 nga sakop ang 25 ka ektarya kag ginapanag-iyahan sang pareho lamang nga indibidwal.
Ini na mga impormasyon ang nagtuhaw matapos nga nagpatigayon sang imbestigasyon si Duron bangud sa alegasyon nga gin-hatagan sang pribado nga land titles ang halos 50 ka ektarya nga mangrove areas sa Iloilo Strait nga ginakabig nga protektado nga public land.
Gin-klaro sang isa ka eksperto nga ang ”aro” ukon leprosy isa ka sakit nga puwede mag-ayo kag indi dapat pagkahadlukan.
Ini kaangay man sang impeksyon nga naghalin sang bacteria ukon mikrobyo nga naga-epekto sa immune system sang isa ka tawo.
Aileen Adela Montero, iya ginpahayag nga indi dapat pagkabalak-an sang publiko ang ”aro” ukon leprosy bangud ang bulong para diri libre halin sa World Health Organization kag ginahatag bisan pa maglab-ot sang duha ka tuig nga pag-inom sini.
Montero nga ndi ini isa ka salot kag indi pareho sang mga sakit nga madali makalaton sa iban.
Gin-athag man sini nga nagadepende ang pag-develop sini sa kahimtangan sang immune system sang isa ka tawo.
Suno pa sa iya nga kun ang pasyente naga-inom na sang bulong, indi na ini makalalaton.
Montero ang mga early signs nga mahimo makita bilang patchy ang panit sang tawo nga daw kaangay sang alap-ap.
Gin-athag man nila nga health authorities nga tanan nga komplikasyon kaangay sang ”aro” mahimo malikawan kun timprano pa ini mahibaluan kag matatapan sang pagbulong.
Montero, katuyuan sang selebrasyon sang Leprosy Month amo ang pag-edukar sa publiko, mapalapnag sang husto nga impormasyon nahanungod diri kag importante nga mapa-intindi sa iban nga tawo nga mabulong ini kag indi dapat pagsikwayon ang iban nga naga-experiensya sang ”aro” ukon leprosy.
Tatlo ka bulan nga fishing ban sa Visayan Sea, iga-lift na suno sa BFAR 6
Nakatalana na nga iga-lift ang tatlo ka bulan nga fishing ban sa bilog nga Visayan Sea, suno sa Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay BFAR Regional Director Remia Appari, iya ginpahayag nga subong nga adlaw sang Domingo, Pebrero 15, 2026 ang ulihi nga adlaw sang nasambit nga tatlo ka bulan nga closed fishing season sa Visayan Sea, nga nag-umpisa sang Nobyembre 15, 2025.
Pagkatapos sang amo nga close fishing season, sarang na nga makapangisda ang mga manugpangisda sa bilog nga rehiyon.
Nahibaluan nga tinutuyo sang nasambit nga fishing ban nga mahatagan sang tion ang mga isda sa kadagatan nga makapadamo agud mas mag-umwad ang produksyon sang isda sa rehiyon kag suportahan ang food security.
Hugot man nga nagpahanumdom si Director Appari sa mga local nga manugpangisda nga likawan gid ang illegal fishing agud indi makahalit sa kadagatan.
Western Visayas, nakalikum sang halos 110,993 metric tons nga produkto halin sa pagpangisda sa ika-apat nga kwarter sang 2025 suno sa PSA
Nakalikum ang Western Visayas sang halos 110,993 metric tons nga produkto halin sa pagpangisda sa ika-apat nga kwarter sang 2025, mas mataas sang 41.5% ukon 32,561 tonelada kumparar sa pareho nga panahon sang 2024, suno sa datos sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) Regional Office VI.
Pinangunahan sang aquaculture ang nasambit nga pagtaas, nga nagdangat sa 61.8% kag nagrepresentar sang 81.6% sang kabug-usan nga produksiyon, kun sa diin pinangunahan sang Capiz ang aquaculture growth nga may 81.6% nga share.
Nagtaas naman ang municipal fisheries sang 17.4% sa Antique, Aklan, Iloilo, kag Guimaras, samtang nagnubo sang 34.1% ang inland nga bahin sang municipal fisheries.
Sa kabug-usan, nagdangat sa PHP 13.07 billion ang fisheries production, mas mataas sang 86.2% kumpara sa pareho nga kwarter sang 2024.
Ini nga datos nagapakita man nga nagtaas ang municipal fisheries production, samtang nagnubo ang commercial fisheries production.
Kahublagan Kontra Korapsyon (KKK), magapatigayon sang hublag protesta sa Pebrero 25
Magapatigayon sang isa ka hublag-protesta sa syudad sang Iloilo sa Pebrero 25 adlaw sang Mierkules kadungan sang ika-40 nga anibersaryo sang EDSA People Power Revolution.
Pagapangunahan ini sang Kahublagan Kontra Kurapsyon (KKK) nga amo ang isa sa multi-sectoral alliance sang mga Ilonggo kontra kurapsyon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elmor Forro, spokesperson sang BAYAN, iya ginpahayag nga pagapamunuan sang simbahan ang isa ka prayer march kag assembly kun sa diin magasugod ini sa Iloilo Provincial Capitol sa takna nga 12:30 sa udto.
Pag-abot sa takna nga 2:30 sa hapon magamartsa ang protesters pakadto sa St.
Magahiwat man sang programa agud talakayon ang ika-40 nga anibersaryo sang EDSA People Power Revolution kag ang kahimtangan sang pungsod sa karon nga tion.
Suno kay Forro, bitbit sang mga partisipante ang mga panawagan nga “balikan ang kasaysayan” kag “ipabalik ang ginkuha sang mga nangawat sa gobyerno.”
Lakip man sa ila mga panawagan ang pagsukot sa mga lider nga ginatudlo may responsibilidad sa mga isyu sang pungsod, lakip na ang pamilya Marcos kag Duterte.
Nagapanawagan man ang grupo sang paghugpong sang nagkalain-lain nga sektor sang komunidad agud matagaan sang hustisya ang pungsod batok sa mga nagpamintaha halin sa pinakamanubo nga posisyon tubtob sa may pinakamataas nga katungdanan sa gobyerno.
CHED RAISE Summit 2026, pagahiwaton sa syudad sang Iloilo
Patigayunon diri sa syudad sang Iloilo ang CHED RAISE Summit 2026 isa ka national higher education forum nga ginapangunahan sang Commission on Higher Education (CHED), nga magatutok sa papel sang artificial intelligence (AI) kag iban pa nga emerging technologies sa pagbag-o sang sistema sang edukasyon sa Pilipinas.
Raul Muyong, Regional Director sang CHED Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga pagatambungan sang nagkalain-lain nga representante halin sa 18 ka rehiyon ang nasambit nga forum.
Ang RAISE summit nagakahulugan sang ”Responding through AI for Societal Empowerment,” nga may katuyuan nga palapron ang innovation, inclusivity kag ang responsable nga paggamit sang AI sa pagtudlo, pagtuon, research kag community engagement sang mga kolehiyo kag unibersidad sa pungsod.
Ini na ang ikatatlo nga paghiwat sang nasambit nga summit kag patigayunon ini sa Visayas kag diri mismo sa Iloilo Convention Center sa Pebrero 25-27, 2026.
Maga-upod man diri ang mga opisyal sang CHED kag mga partner institutions kun sa diin ginapaabot man nga magatambong si DepEd Secretary Sonny Angara kag Department of Science and Technology Secretary Dr.
Ginpahayag man ni Muyong nga ila ginhandaan ang kaangay sini nga summit sa bulig sang Northern Iloilo State University (NISU) kag West Visayas State University (WVSU) nga amo ang nagapanguna sa preparasyon sang aktibidad sa rehiyon.
Kabahin sang summit ang paghatag kahigayunan sa mga estudyante nga makapakita sang ila abilidad paagi sa Artificial Intellegence.
Ginpabutyag man sini ang kaimportansya sang AI sa edukasyon ilabi na sa digital transformation kag confirmation sang mga academic outputs.
Apang, gin-athag ni Direktor Muyong nga ang AI isa lamang ka tool kag indi dapat pagsaligan bangud posible ini magdula sang critical thinking skills sang mga estudyante.
Katuyuan man sang CHED RAISE Summit nga palaparon ang ihibalo sang higher education institutions kun paano gamiton ang AI para sa transformation kag empowerment sang komunidad.
Ginalauman nga pinaagi sa summit, ma-inspire ang mga estudyante kag manunudlo nga maghimo sang mas madamo pa nga innovation gamit ang AI nga may ara sang balanse sa teknolohiya kag critical thinking skills.
Ngaa nagapangling-ling ang isa ka indibidwal?
Ginsaysay sang isa ka eksperto ang mga rason kun ngaa ang isa ka tawo ang naga-engage sa pagpangling-ling.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Francis Ray Subong, isa ka registered guidance counselor, iya ginsaysay ang ginatawag nga voyeurism ukon pagpangling-ling kun sa diin ang isa ka tawo nagaangkon sang interes sa pagtan-aw sa iban nga tawo nga wala nila nahibaluan may nagatulok sa ila.
Suno kay Subong, ang amo nga buluhaton ang nagakaguba sa kaugalingon kag kabuhi sang isa ka tawo bangud naga-develop ini bilang isa ka pamatasan nga may posibilidad nga madala-dala na sang isa ka tawo.
Iya man ginpahayag nga importante nga mahibaluan sang isa ka tawo ang iya boundary kag kinahanglan sini pasangkaron ini agud yara sa gihapon ang pag-respeto sa iya kaugalingon.
Mahimo man ini magresulta sang madugay nga problema sa mental health.
Ginpunto man ni Subong nga dako ang papel sang mga ginikanan agud mapalab-ot sa ila kabataan ang pamatasan nga wala nagaguba sang ila kapasidad nga mangin maayo nga tawo.
Suno pa sa iya nga ang ginikanan ang magabulig sa pag-edukar kag pag-giya sang ila kabataan nahanungod sa ila responsibilidad.
Gindugang pa sini nga ang mayo nga komunikasyon sa sulod sang panimalay makabulig agud malikawan ang mga kaangay sini nga insidente.
Nagpanugyan man ini sa mga tawo nga may ara sang problema kaangay sini kag kun indi makasarang magpakonsulta sa pribado nga doktor, mahimo magpalapit sa mga ospital sang gobyerno pareho sang Department of Health nga nagahatag sang mental health services.
Ini agud mabuligan sila sa mga kaangay sini nga problema nga naga-angot sa mental health problems sang isa ka tawo.
Jalandoni Bridge, temporaryo nga gintapalan sang aspalto bangud sa madamo nga buho-buho
Temporaryo nga gintapalan sang aspalto ang mga buho-buho nga nahamtang sa karon sa Jalandoni Bridge nga nagakonekta sa Brgy.
Nabitasan, La Paz kag City Proper kon sa diin nagagwa na ang kabilya sini.
Nalakip ini sa ginpalab-ot na ni Mayor Raisa Treñas kay Sec.
Vince Dizon kun sa diin nagahingyo ang alkalde sang urgent national government assistance para sa inspection, structural evaluation kag rehabilitation sang taytay.
Nahibaluan nga humalin sang pag-obra sini sang tuig 2000, wala pa ini nakaagi sang structural upgrade kag wala man ini na-turnover sang DPWH sa Iloilo City Government.
Dizon nga nabaton na niya ang letter halin sa Iloilo City Government kag tinguhaan nga mahatagan sang lihok ang nasambit nga problema.
Sa matandaan nga ginpa-Bombo ang nasambit nga taytay sang nagligad nga bulan bangud nga dako ang huol nga dala sini sa mga motorista.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Bongbong Guevara, tricycle driver, iya ginpahayag nga nangin mas maayo na ang ila pag-agi sa lugar bangud nga wala na sang buho-buho kag indi na maundag para sa ila kag sa ila mga pasahero.
Ginapasalamatan man sini ang Iloilo City Government sa lihok nga gin-obra apang nagahingyo man sila nga kuntani makay-o na gid sang permanente.
Lalaki, pilason matapos mabun-an sang boardmate bangud sa pagpangling-ling
Pilason ang lalaki matapos mabun-an sang iya boardmate nga ginpahayag nga ginlingling niya samtang nagapakighilawas sa iya girlfriend sa West Habog-habog, Molo, Iloilo City sang Pebrero 13, 2026.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Raymond, driver, samtang ang suspek amo si alyas Janjan, pahinante, lunsay pangayaw kag legal ang pang-edaron.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Ryan Christ Inot, hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station 4, iya ginpahayag nga isa lang ka boarding house ang ginatiniran sang suspek kag biktima kun sa diin ginaakupa ni alyas Raymond ang lower bunk kag sa upper bunk naman si alyas Janjan.
Base sa imbestigasyon, kun kaisa, ginahulam ni alyas Janjan ang kwarto kun magkadto ang iya nobya.
Dugang pa sang natungdan nga nagkomprontahanay ang duha bangud nga ginapalapta sang biktima nga nakita niya ang suspek kag ang iya nobya nga nagapakighilawas.
Gilayon nagpalagyo ang suspek padulong sa Baluarte, apang na-recover ang gin-gamit sini nga kitchen knife.
Yara naman sa estable nga kondisyon ang biktima matapos nakaagum sang pilas sa iya wala nga butkon.
Posible nga magpangatubang sang kaso nga frustrated homicide ang suspek sa tion nga magpasaka na sang reklamo ang biktima.
Binky Tupas, ginaduso ang pagtukod sang separado nga Schools Division sa Northern Iloilo
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag sang representante nga ang Schools Division of Iloilo amo ang ikatlo sa pinakadako sa bug-os nga pungsod.
May ara ini sang ginabulubanta 20,000 ka mga empleyado, rason nga suno sa iya, “physically impossible” nga matutukan ang 1,174 ka mga eskwelahan.
Dugang pa niya, ang pagtukod sang Schools Division of Northern Iloilo mangin pabor gid para sa mga pumuluyo sa norte, ilabi na gid sa mga island schools.
Sa subong, wala pa sang pinal nga desisyon kun diin ibutang ang opisina sang nasambit nga schools division bangud yara pa lamang ini sa 2nd Reading sa Kongreso kag ginatinguhaan nga maistorya ang Chair sa Committee on Ways and Means agud nga mapondohan.
Nangabay man si Tupas kay Senator Bam Aquino, chair sang Senate Committee on Education, nga mag-file sang counterpart bill sa Senado agud mapabakod ang pagtukod sang separado nga Schools Division sa Northern Iloilo.
”Kulang ang lokal nga suplay sang bulak gani ang iban imported”-flower vendors
Nagmahal ang presyo sang bulak subong nga ginaselebrar ang Valentine s Day.
Ini bangud kalabanan sa baligya subong nga mga bulak ang imported kag limitado ang suplay sang lokal nga produkto.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Noevie Alaban, isa ka flower vendor sa Corner Rizal Street, Iloilo City Proper, iya ginpahayag nga nagligad nga tuig, ang isa ka dosena nga bulak ang nagabalor sang P1,000, apang subong nga tuig, tunga na lang sa dosena ang mabakal sa isa ka libo ka pesos.
Dugang pa sini, madamo ang nagpamakal sang bulak, apang kulang ang lokal nga suplay gani napilitan ang iban nga magkuha sang stock halin sa iban nga pungsod, lakip na sa China.
Bisan pa sang pagsaka sang presyo, padayon ang pagkadto sang mga nagapamakal nga nagapangita sang bulak agud ihatag sa ila mga pinalangga sa kabuhi.
Sa pihak nga bahin, sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Rodrigo Butiga, isa ka driver, iya ginpahayag nga ginpili na lamang nila nga magselebrar sa sulod sang ila balay kaupod ang pamilya bangud sa kabudlay sang kabuhi subong.
Imbes nga magbakal sang bulak, mas ginpili na lang sini nga bugas ang baklon bilang mas prayoridad nga kinahanglanon sa pang-adlaw-adlaw nga tanan.
Suno pa sa iya nga manami man ang makabaton sang bulak apang mas kinahanglan nila nga makakaon gane bugas na lang ang gin-prayoridad.
Ilongga OFW nga napreso sa Kuwait, yara na subong sa deportation area
Yara na subong sa deportation area sa Kuwait ang isa ka Ilongga Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) nga napreso bangud sa ginapahayag nga paglapas sa Labor Law sang amo nga pungsod.
Ginkilala ini kay Maricris Lapatero Sacatin, residente sang Poblacion, San Rafael, Iloilo kag 13 na ka tuig nga naga-ubra bilang domestic helper sa luwas sang pungsod sa isa lamang ka employer.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maeb Lapatero, utod ni Maricris, iya ginpahayag nga nagapasalamat gid sila bangud bisan paano, may development na sa kahimtangan sang ila utod sa Kuwait matapos nga gindangop nila ang ila problema diri sa Bombo Radyo.
Apang, indi sa gihapon nila mapunggan ang magkabalaka bangud wala sa gihapon sang direkta nga komunikasyon sa ila utod.
Gintuad man sang natungdan nga nagpromisa ang amo ni Maricris nga siya ang mabayad sang plane ticket sini kag ipadala ang nabilin nga gamit sini sa Pilipinas.
Madumduman nga nalapas sang amo nga Ilongga ang Labor Law sang Kuwait bangud nagaubra ini bilang part-time cook sa negosyo mismo sang iya amo nga ginapahayag nga wala sang nagakaigo nga permiso.
Duha ka unit sang WVTC, nadakpan matapos nga nag-overload sang mga pasahero
Nadakpan ang duha ka units sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative nga ginpahayag nga nag-overload sang mga pasahero.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raymundo Boyet Parcon, Chairman sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, iya ginpahayag nga naglab-ot sa 14 ang nagatindog nga mga pasahero sa isa ka unit matapos nga nagsaka ang pila ka mga indibidwal sa modernized jeep sa Jaro plaza bangud sa mamunog nga ulan.
Suno sa kundoktor sang nasambit nga unit, indi naman nila mapapanaog ang nagsobra nga pasahero matapos nga nakasaka na ang mga ini.
Ginpakigbahin naman ni Parcon nga ila ipakigbato ang isa ka unit nga ginpahayag 8 lang ang nagatindog nga pasahero apang pagahatagan sang penalidad.
Suno sa iya, isturyahun nila ang Land Transportation Office agud nga indi pagmultahan ang driver kag kundoktor sang isa ka unit bangud man nga dako gid ang multa nga P6,000.
Dugang pa niya nga pabor sya sa pagpangmulta sa mga masabad nga kundoktor agud man nga madakpan ang wala nagasunod sa polisa.
TFMVF, ginabantayan ang mga room boys nga nagapangbugaw
Isa sa mga ginabantayan sang Task Force on Moral Values and Formation subong nga Valentine’s Day amo ang room boys sa mga accommodation establishments nga ginpahayag nga nagapangbugaw.
Ini matapos nga may ara sang isa ka staff sang isa man ka lodging house ang nagsugid sa nasambit nga opisina nga may ara sang mga staff sang pila ka mga establisyamento ang nagabugaw sang mga sex worker.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Nestor Canong, Head sang Task Force on Moral Values and Formation, iya ginpahayag nga sandig sa nahatag nga impormasyon nga halin mismo sa mga kustomer, may yara sang room boys nga naga-sideline kag sila ang nagapangbugaw.
Nagpaandam man ang talatapan nga mabug-at ang penalidad kun madakpan, kag may yara pa sang posible nga ma-preso.
Pahayag ni Canong, bisan nga ginatos-gatos lang ang madugang sa income sang room boys, daku naman ini nga halit sa buwas-damlag sang iban ilabi na kun mga menor de edad ang ila nga ginabugaw.
Padayun man sila nga nagapangbisita sa mga accommodation establishments agud man nga ma-imbestigaran kun may ara sang mga nagalapas sa pagsulundan kaangay sang wala dapat sang mga menor de edad sa establisyamento sa idalom sang child protection program.
Dugang pa niya nga kinahanglan man nga mangin mahinalungon sang publiko ilabi na ang may mga partners agud nga malikawan ang mga sexuallty-transmitted diseases.
Hublag-protesta, patigayunon sa Iloilo City kadungan sang 40th EDSA anniversary
Patigayunon ang hublag-protesta sa syudad sang Iloilo sa masunod nga Myerkules, Pebrero 25, kadungan sang ika-40 nga anibersaryo sang EDSA People Power Revolution.
Suno sa Kahublagan Kontra Kurapsyon (KKK) nga amo ang masangkad nga multi-sectoral alliance sang mga Ilonggo kontra kurapsyon, magatipon ang mga maga-upod sa protesta sa Iloilo Provincial Capitol 12:30 sa udto, kag pagasundan sang mga ambahanon kag mga speech.
2:30 sa hapon, maga-martsa ang protesters pakadto sa St.
Clement’s Church, kag maga-diretso sa Jaro Plaza.
May naka-schedule naman nga misa sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral sa alas kuatro sa hapon.
Gina-engganyo sang KKK ang maga-upod sa protesta nga magsuksok sang puti nga panapton.
Sa press release sang grupo, ginsiling nga pagkatapos sang EDSA People Power Revolution sang 1986 kag EDSA 2 sang 2001, nagapabilin nga isa ka pagpanghangkat sa mga Pilipino nga gub-on ang garuk nga sistema sang pang-gobyerno nga puno sang kurapsyon.
Bangud sining dunot nga pamulitika suno sa grupo, nagsangkad pa ang gahum sang mga dinastiya kag nagasunod ang mga kaso sang plunder.
Ginlaslasan man sini ang mahinay nga imbestigasyon sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno nga nagapakita nga may ginatabun-tabunan kag may selective accountability.
Ginapasabat sang grupo si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
nga amo suno sa ila ang responsable sa pork barrel system kun sa diin makabenepisyo man ang iya kaugalingon nga pamilya kag mga kaalyado sa pulitika.
Magluwas diri, ginapanawagan man sang KKK nga pasabton si Vice President Sara Duterte sa iya nga pag-abuso sa confidential funds.
Matandaan nga antes sini, may duha man ka nauna nga hugnat sang Trillion Peso March sa Iloilo nga gin-updan sang nagkalain-lain nga mga grupo, mga kabataan, mga propesyunal, kag mangin sang simbahan.
Natabo ini sang Septyembre 21 kag sang Nobyembre 30 nga ang panawagan nagsentro man sa pagtapna sa kurapsyon kag pagpapreso sa mga involved sa pagpangawat sa kaban sang gobyerno.#
Modernisasyon, ginatudlo isa sa rason kun ngaa may overloading
Modernisasyon ang isa sa mga ginatudlo nga rason kun ngaa may overloading sa mga pampubliko nga salakyan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elmer Forro, Secretary General sang Bayan Panay, iya ginpahayag nga bangud sa modernisasyon, 172,000 traditional jeepneys ang nadula sa operasyon sa bilog nga pungsod kag 128,000 nalang ang padayun nga nagabyahe.
Ginpakigbahin man niya nga sa siudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo, yara na lang sa masobra 1,700 ang padayun nga naga-operar nga jeep halin sa 2,500 nga numero sini.
Suno kay Forro, may yara lang sang 60,000 ka mga modernized jeepney ang pungsod kun sa diin kulang gid ini para sa publiko.
Pahayag man niya nga na-antisipar na nila nga magatuga sang public transportation crisis ang nasambit nga modernisasyon samtang nga ginaduso palang ini.
Dugang pa niya nga nagakapilitan nalang man nga magsakay ang mga pasahero sa nagaginutok nga modernized jeep bangud nga magamay lang ang nagabyahe nga pampubliko nga salakyan.
Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray, ginpakigbahin sa una nga kahigayunan ang rason sang ila break up sang ex-fiancee nga si Sam Milby
Sa una nga kahigayunan, ginpakigbahin ni Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray ang rason sang breakup nila sang aktor nga si Sam Milby.
Ginpahayag sini kun paano ini tuman nga nasakitan sang mahibaluan nga indi pa handa si Sam sa commitment sa ila relasyon nga duha matapos ang engagement sini.
Suno pa sa beauty queen-actress nga naghimakas pa ini nga maghimo sang madamo nga mga adjustments para mapabilin ang ila relasyon, apang suno pa sa iya nga kinahanglan na sini nga untaton bangud sobra na ang iya ginhimo agud nga mapabilin ini apang indi sa gihapon makita ni Sam nga ma-engage kay Cat.
Ginlaragway man ni Catriona bilang isa sa pinakamabudlay nga desisyon nga ginhimo sini sa iya nga kabuhi bangud matuod gid sini nga ginahigugma ang aktor.
Ginakonsiderar man ni Catriona ang na-eksperiensyahan nga sakit bilang isa ka lesson kag gin-ako ang man sini ang madamo nga mga kabudlayan nga gin-agyan sini sa relasyon nga ginkabig sini nga importante.
Suno pa sa beauty queen nga nagpaidalom man ini sa isa ka therapy matapos ang ila break up kag nakabulig man ini para mas mangin malapit pa ini sa iya mga ”core group.” kaangay sang iya pamilya kag mga kaabyanan.
Sa pihak sang natabo sini sa ila relasyon ni Sam, ginpakigbahin ni Catriona ang pagpati sa gihapon sa paghigugma kag padayon ini nga nagapangamuyo sa iya mangin bana sa pila kaadlaw.
Sa karon, nagapakig-date na ini isa ka non-showbiz guy, apang wala pa sini ginpasapubliko ang identity sini.
Nahibaluan nga ginpasapubliko ni Catriona kag Sam Milby ang ila nga engagement sang tuig 2023 kag ila ginkumpirmar ang ila break up sang tuig 2025.
ICPO director, nagmandu nga solbaron gilayon ang asud-asud nga motornapping incidents
Ginmanduan ni Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) Director Police Captain Wilbert Parilla ang hepe sang Police Station 3 nga solbaron sa labing-madali nga tion ang asud-asud nga mga kaso sang pagpangawat sang motorsiklo sa area nga sakop sang ila hurisdiksyon.
Ini ang kasunod sang natabo sang motornapping incident malapit sa Land Transportation Office (LTO) sa Quintin Salas, Jaro, Iloilo City sang Pebrero 3, kag ginsundan sang isa pa ka pagpangbiktima sa amo gihapon nga barangay sang Pebrero 11.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Parilla, iya ginpahayag nga ginpabulig man sini ang City Intelligence Unit, kag naghatag man sang direktiba nga dapat may koordinasyon sa iban pa nga police stations sa syudad agud maaresto gilayon ang suspek.
Suno kay Parilla, nagmandu siya nga usisaon kun isa lang bala ka tawo ang suspek sa duha ka magkatuhay nga mga insidente.
Ini bangud magluwas nga isa lang ka barangay natabo ang duha ka kaso, nakit-an nga may pagkapareho sa panglawason sang suspek sandig sa closed-circuit television footages.
“Good thing is that nakakuha tayo ng footage na hindi siya nag-helmet, so there is a big possibility na ma-identify natin,” suno kay Parilla.
Magluwas sa sini nga duha ka kaso, sandig sa record nga napalab-ot sa Bombo Radyo, may duha ka iban pa nga motornapping incidents nga natabo sa Jaro kag isa sa Molo.
Sa tanan nga nasambit nga insidente, wala sang may nadakpan nga suspek.#
Ikaw bala nagapanag-iya sang motorsiklo kag ari ikaw diri sa Siudad sang Iloilo?
Ka-Bombo, halungi gid ang imo motorsiklo kun indi mo gusto nga mangin ikaanom nga biktima sa serye sang motornapping nga mga kaso.
Humalin sang Enero tubtob subong nga tunga-tunga sang Pebrero, may lima na ka mga kaso sang pagpangawat sang motorsiklo.
Yari ang lima ka mga insidente sang motornapping nga narekord sang Bombo Radyo:
Sa lima ka mga insidente, apat gid ang natabo sa Jaro kag wala gid sang bisan isa ang nadakpan.
Ginalantaw man ang posibilidad nga pareho lang ang tawo sa likod sang sini nga motornapping sa Jaro.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad sa pagpanguna ni PCol.
Ginausisa man sang maayo ang mga CCTV footages agud madasig nga makilal-an ang mga suspek.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa publiko nga magdoble-halong ilabi na kun naga-park sa pampubliko nga lugar paagi sa pagsiguro nga naka-lock ang motorsiklo kag wala nabilin ang yabe.
Dugang niya, kun mabiktima gid man sang motornappers, mas mayo nga mag-report gilayon sa otoridad agud madasig nga makaimbestigar kag malagas ukon mapangita ang mga kawatan.
ICTTMO, magatukod sang team nga maga-upod sa operasyon sang LTO kag LTFRB vs overloaded PUVs
Magatukod sang team ang Traffic and Transportation Management Office (TTMO) agud nga makabulig sa pagpatigayon sang mga inspeksyon agud matapna ang isyu sang overloading sa mga modernized jeepneys sa Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Retired Police Colonel Uldarico Garbanzos, head sang amo nga opisina, iya ginpahayag nga magasapol siya sa iya mga personnel agud ma-assign ang mga mahimo i-deploy kadungan sang inspeksyon nga patigayunon upod sa concerned agencies.
Suno kay Garbanzos, kabahin na ini sang agenda sa Local Public Transport Route Committee kun sa diin yara man ang presensya sang mga tiglawas sang Land Transportation Office (LTO) kag ang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB).
“Isa sa mga gin-agreehan nga may joint operation nga matabo —checking and inspection — para ma-prevent ang the same operation nga gina-obra sang mga driver kag PAO,” pahayag sini.
Dugang niya: “Kami willing gid kami mag-support kag mag-dedicate sang tawo para magbulig sa aton nga national agency.”
Pahayag pa ni Garbanzos, indi na bag-o nga isyu ang overloading ukon ang overcrowding sa modernized units kag nagakatabo ini mangin sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Nakit-an sini nga ang pagpanghangkat sa pagtapna sa sini nga practice amo ang monitoring.
Ginbalikan ni Garbanzos ang “Anti-Sardinas” policy kun sa diin pareho nga may mandato ang LTO kag ang LTFRB sa pagdumili sa mga pampubliko nga salakyan nga nagakarga sang mga pasahero nga nagalalapaw na sa maximum nga seating capacities.
Sa lebel sang syudad suno pa kay Garbanzos, naga-apprehend sila sa mga unit sa mga terminal nga naga-operate nga lapaw sa ila nga registered seating capacity sa idalom sang Regulation Ordinance 2008-393.
“Maayo gid kun may operations, may joint operations, para tanan mangin aware kag mapakita sa tanan nga sinsero [ang operasyon],” dugang ni Garbanzos.
Una naman nga ginpahayag sang LTO 6 nga bilang kabahin sang mas ginpasangkad nga anti-overloading campaign, may random inspections nga himuon sa modern jeepneys sa bilog nga Western Visayas.
Geduspan II ang tanan nga LTO District Offices sa Panay kag Guimaras kaupod sa law enforcement units nga aktibo nga ipatuman ang zero-tolerance crackdown batok sa nagaginutok nga mga pasahero sa sulod sang pampubliko nga salakyan.
Subong nga World Radio Day, ginapadayaw sang Bombo Radyo Philippines ang anom ka dekada nga indi matupungan nga performance sa patag sang public service kag broadcasting sa pungsod.
Suno kay Miss Margaret Ruth Florete, President and CEO sang Bombo Radyo Philippines, nagpabilin nga mapag-on ang pagsalig sang publiko sa network bangud nga gintungdan sang Bombo ang matuod-tuod nga papel bilang manugdul-ong sang balita kag impormasyon.
Pahayag niya, padayon ang network sa misyon sini nga magpangalagad, mag-edukar, kag maghatag sang gahum sa komunidad.
Dugang niya, panindugan gihapon sang kumpanya ang ethical broadcasting, public accountability, kag responsible innovation samtang nagapadayon ini bilang go-to media organization.
Nagpalab-ot naman ini sang pagpasalamat sa tanan nga mga ka-Bombo kag ka-Starnation nga maukod nga tagpalamati kag tumalan-aw sang mga programa sang 32 ka mga fully digitalized radio stations sang Bombo Radyo sa bilog nga pungsod.
Iloilo City Budget Officer, ginklaro nga wala sang pagsaka sa Real Property Tax
Ginklaro kag nagpasalig ang Iloilo City Budget Officer nga wala sang pagsaka sa Real Property Tax (RPT) kag wala man sang direkta nga epekto ang pagloan sang city government sa Development Bank of the Philippines para sa expansion budget sang Iloilo City Community College.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Viminale Capulso, City Budget Officer, iya gin-athag nga may ginasunod nga standard ang mga balayran sa syudad kag indi ini maapektuhan sang mga loan sang local government.
Sa bahin sang RPT, may ara sang ginpapanaog nga executive order ni Mayor Raisa Treñas sa pag-extend sang 40% deduction sang RPT sa siudad nga magalawig pa tubtob 2028 kun sa diin wala man sang patigayunon nga pagtaas bangud sa utang nga 300 Million pesos.
Nahibaluan nga may ara pa sang P2.4 Billion nga debt capacity ang siudad, kun sa diin sa subong, 300 Million pesos pa lang ang ginhulam sang city government nga kinahanglanun para sa Iloilo City Community College.
ICPS 3, ginasundan na ang CCTV footages sang motornapping sa Quintin Salas
Ginasundan na sang Iloilo City Police Station 3 ang mga CCTV sa nagluntad nga motornapping incident sang Pebrero 11 sa bahin sang Quintin Salas sa Distrito sang Jaro.
Mavin Laraño, hepe sang ICPS 3, iya ginpahayag nga ginalantaw nga pareho lang ang suspek sang motornapping incident sang Pebrero 11 kag sang Pebrero 3 sa atubang sang Land Transporation Office sa bahin man sang Quintin Salas.
Ini matapos nga nakit-an sa CCTV footages nga pareho ang panglawasun sang suspek sang duha ka insidente.
Suno pa kay Laraño, padayon ang ila nga imbestigasyon agud nga mahibaluan kun isa lang ang persona sa likod sang motornapping.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa publiko nga isekyar ang ila nga mga propiedad ilabi na ang motorsiklo agud malikawan ang kaangay nga mga insidente.
Nahibaluan nga ini na ang ikalima nga insidente sang motornapping nga narekord sa syudad subong nga tuig.
11 ka mga pribado nga salakyan sa likod sang kapitolyo, ginpang-clamp
Ginpang-clamp ang 11 tanan ka mga pribado nga salakyan nga naka-park sa likod sang kapitolyo kun sa diin may signage pa nga No Parking kahapon nga adlaw, Pebrero 12.
Pahayag sang Iloilo City Traffic and Transportation Management Unit gna nagapatigayon sila sang clearing operations sa Magdalo, La Paz sang may nagpahibalo sa ila nga madamo ang naga-park sa likod sang kapitolyo rason nga gilayon nila ini nga ginkadtuan.
Nakit-an sang mga ini ang 11 ka mga pribado nga salakyan kun sa diin gilayon nila ini nga ginpangclamp.
Gilayon n man nga nagbayad ang mga ini sang P1,000 nga penalty sa Iloilo City Hall agud nga makuha ang clamp sa ila nga mga salakyan.
Suno sa mga tag-iya sang salakyan, nahimo nila nga magpark sa nasambit nga area bangud nga may ara sang nagpamaypay sa ila nga pwede magpark sa lugar.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Inday nga isa sa mga nagpapark, iya ginpahayag nga dugay na sila nga nagabulig sila sa mga tag-iya sang salakyan agud nga magpark sa lugar.
Nagpahayag naman ini nga ila man nga ginhambalan ang mga tag-iya sang salakyan nga indi anay paghalinan ang ila nga salakyan kag hulatun lang nga maguwa ang iban nga nakapark sa sulod sang capitol grounds.
Quota sa mga kundoktor, isa sa mga rason sa pag-overload sang mga pasahero sa modernized jeepney
Isa sa mga rason sa pag-overload sang mga pasahero sa mga modernized jeepney amo ang quota sa mga kundoktor.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Raymundo Boyet Parcon, Chairman sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative, iya ginpahayag nga kun maglapaw ang mga kundoktor sa ila nga mga quota, may ara sila sang makuha nga porsyento.
Apang suno man sa iya, may ara gid sang mga salawayon nga kundoktor kun sa diin bisan pa nga tuman na kagutok sa sulod sang pampubliko nga salakyan, padayun sagihapon sang mga ini nga ginapasulod ang iban nga mga pasahero.
Pahayag man niya, makapila naman ka beses nga nakabaton ang ila opisina sang reklamo nahanungod sa overloading sang ila nga mga unit.
Suno man sa iya nga naga-ubra naman sila sang mga tikang agud nga gilayon nga madakpan ang mga salawayun nga mga kundoktor kag masuspende ang mga ini sa ila nga mga ginapang-obra.
Nagapati man siya nga dapat komportable ang mga pasahero sa ila nga ginasakyan kag indi dapat magtuga sang problema sa mga ini.
Dugang pa niya, wala nila ginatolerar ang overloading kag nagpahayag man nga pabor sya sa programa kun sa diin dakpon ang mga pasaway nga mga kundoktor kag hatagan sang penalidad.
OFW nga napreso sa Kuwait, yara sa na deportation area
Yara na sa deportation area ang Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) nga una na nga na-report nga priso sa pungsod sang Kuwait sang Enero 26, 2026.
Ini amo si Maricris Lapatero Sacatin, residente sang Poblacion, San Rafael kag 13 na ka tuig nga naga-ubra bilang Domestic Helper sa luwas sang pungsod sa isa lang ka amo.
Cynthia Dario, Head sang Public Employment Services Office sang Probinsya sang Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga halin sa detention center, nasaylo na ini sa deportation area kag ginahulat nalang ang pirma sang Minister of Interior sang State of Kuwait.
Padayon man nga nagakoordinar ang PESO sa talatapan sang Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) kag Department of Migrant Workers (DMW) bangud sila mismo ang may direkta nga komunikasyon sang gobyerno sang Kuwait.
Nahibaluan nga nalapas sang amo sang OFW ang Labor Law sang Kuwait bangud nagaubra ini bilang Part-time cook sa negosyo mismo sang iya amo nga wala sang nagakaigo nga permiso.
Isa liwat ka motornapping incident, nagluntad sa Quintin Salas
Nagalalain ang tag-iya sang motorsiklo sa Brgy.
Quintin Salas, Jaro, matapos nga ginkawat ang iya motor kahapon nga adlaw, Pebrero 11.
Ang ginkawat nga motor amo ang XRM Honda nga may duag pula, puti kag itom kun sa diin may temporary plate number ini nga 080103.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa nagapanag-iya sang motor nga si Alyas Joni, iya ginpahayag nga bata niya nga estudyante ang naggamit sang motorsiklo kun sa diin angkas man niya ang iya utod nga babayi antes nadula.
Pahayag niya nga ginbilin lang sa bahin sang nasambit nga barangay ang motorsiklo bangud nga naga-commute ang mga ini pakadto sa ila nga tutor sa San Vicente, Jaro.
Sang nagapakadto na sila sa ila motor, nakit-an pa sang bata sini nga babayi nga daw ila motor ang gamit sang isa ka lalaki apang ginbalewala niya ini.
Sang nag-aot na ang mga ini sa lugar nga ginbilinan sang motor, wala na nila ini makita kag nagdesisyon nalang nga magpauli agud pamangkuton ang ila amay kun siya ang nagkuha sang motor.
Matapos nila nga makapauli, didto nila sang nakumpirma nga wala ang ila amay nagkuha ukon naggamit sang nadula nga motorsiklo.
Nagpahayag naman ang isa ka parking boy nga nakit-an sini ang suspek apang wala siya sang ihibalo nga amo ini ang nagkawat sang motor.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Alog, iya ginpahayag nga posible nga matudlo niya ang suspetsado ilabi na kun makita niya liwat ang itsura sini.
Suno sa iya, madasig man nga napaandar sang motornapper ang ginkawat nga motorsiklo, rason nga wala man siya nagduda diri.
TFMVF, ginamonitor na ang accommodation establishments para sa paalabuton nga Valentine’s Day
Gina-monitor na sang Task Force on Moral Values and Formation (TFMVF) ang mga accommodation establishments kaangay sang Lodging Houses, Pension Houses, Inns, Hotels, Motels kag Apartelles, para sa palaabuton nga Valentine’s Day sa Pebrero 14.
Nestor Canong, head sang Task Force, iya ginpahayag nga naglab-ot na sa 22 ka mga establisyemento ang ila nga ginpangkadtuan kag gin-remind angot sa ordinansa nga nagadumili sa pagsulod sang mga menor de edad sa nasambit nga mga establisyemento sa amo nga adlaw.
Nahibaluan nga ang Iloilo City Regulation Ordinance No.
2015-447 ang istrikto nga ginapatuman para sa proteksyon sang mga menor de edad.
Ini amo ang ordinansa nga nagapahanumdom sa kun sin-o man ukon amo man nga establisyamento ang madakpan, ang mahimo nga multahan sang P5,000 ukon silutan sang pagkapreso sa masulod sang isa ka tuig kag possible nga kanselasyon sang business permit.
Suno kay Canong, may ara ila sang mga personnel kag Community Watch Group nga magabantay mismo sa mga establisyemento sa tion sang Valentine’s Day.
P20 million nga reward, gindugang para sa makatudlo sang nahamtangan sang pugante nga si Atong Ang
Gindugangan sang gobyerno sang P20 milyon ang reward para sa makatudlo sang nahamtangan sang pugante nga si Atong Ang, nga nagapangatubang sang patong-patong nga mga warrant may kaangtanan sa kaso sang ‘missing sabungero’.
Suno kay Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla, tinutuyo sang amo nga pagtaas sang reward nga mas madasig ang pagka-aresto kay Ang.
Ginpasiguro ni Remulla nga padayon ang imbestigasyon sa posible nga ginahamtangan ni Ang, matapos ang balita nga nagpalagyo ini padulong sa Cambodia — nga ginpanginwala naman sang gobyerno sang nasambit nga pungsod.
Matandaan nga una na nga ginpanginwala ni Ang ang mga akusasyon kag nagpasaka sang kaso batok sa whistleblower nga si Julie Patidongan, nga nag-akusa sa iya nga naga-organisa sang pagpatay sang amo nga mga manugbulang.
Plano man sang gobyerno nga gamiton ang advanced surveillance technology, lakip na ang lidar, agud mapadasig ang pagsagap kay Ang kag sa iban pa nga high-profile fugitives.
ICTTMO, handa nga mag-deploy sang personnel pananglitan istriktuhan sang LTO ang implementasyon sang “Anti-Sardinas Policy”
Handa nga mag-deploy sang mga personnel ang Iloilo City Traffic and Transportation Management Office (ICTTMO) pananglitan istriktuhan sang Land Transportation Office (LTO) ang implementasyon sang “Anti-Sardinas Policy” sa tanan nga Public Utility Vehicles (PUV).
May kaangtanan ini sa naglapta nga video online kun sa diin makita nga ang isa ka modernized jeepney ang nagapasaka pa gihapon sang mga pasahero apisar nga puno na kag tuman na kagutok ang sulod sini.
Uldarico Garbanzos, head sang ICTTMO office, iya ginpahayag nga nagahulat na lamang ang ila opisina sang pormal nga direktiba ukon operasyon halin sa LTO agud nga makapartisipar man sila sa implementasyon sang polisiya.
Dugang pa ni Garbanzos nga indi na bag-o sa siyudad sang Iloilo ang isyu sang overloading sa mga modernized jeepney, gani kinahanglan gid ang mas istrikto nga pagpatuman sang kasuguan.
Nagpasalamat man si Garbanzos sa concerned citizen nga nagpakigbahin sang amo nga hitabo sa social media, bangud nakabulig ini agud mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga solusyon sa amo nga problema.
4th District BM Distura, suportado ang kaangay nga ordinansa nga ginaduso ni Senator Erwin Tulfo nga isulod sa basic education curriculum ang pagtudlo nahanungod sa West Philippine Sea
Suportado ni 4th District Board Member Rolando Distura ang ordinansa nga ginaduso ni Senator Erwin Tulfo nga nagatuyo nga isulod sa basic education curriculum ang pagtudlo nahanungod sa West Philippine Sea (WPS).
Sa nahibaluan, si Distura ang principal sponsor sang “Iloilo Local Ordinance Anchored on Values Education of the West Philippine Sea” ukon (I LOVE WPS), nga napasar na sa probinsya sang Iloilo agud itudlo sa mga eskwelahan ang ihibalo nahanungod sa soberanya sang Pilipinas sa WPS.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay BM Distura, iya ginpahayag nga nalipay gid siya sa ginaduso nga ordinansa ni Senator Tulfo nga pagtudlo sa mga estudyante sa public schools nahanungod sa WPS, nga kaangay man sa tinutuyo sang ordinansa nga iya ginpangunahan sa probinsya.
Dugang pa ni Distura, magamay pa lamang ang kaalam sang kabataan may kaangtanan sa WPS kag madamo ang nagalapta nga sala nga impormasyon sa social media.
Gani, dako ini nga bulig sa pagpabakod sang soberanya sang Pilipinas paagi sa pagpasiguro nga ang mga Pilipino, labi na ang kabataan, may husto nga ihibalo parte sa sini nga isyu.
Nagapati man si Distura sa diplomasiya kag wala sini ginakabig nga kaaway ang China, apang suno sa iya, ang tuyo lamang amo ang pagpangapin sang teritoryo sang Pilipinas kag pagsiguro nga may husto nga ihibalo ang mga kabataan sa amo nga diskusyon.
Sa karon, nagpasalig si Distura nga masuguran na sa sini nga school year ang pagtudlo sang amo nga leksyon sa kada eskwelahan sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Mayor Raisa Treñas, luyag gid palayason si Engr.
Ini matapos ginpapanaugan sang memorandum ni Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Secretary Vince Dizon si Pacanan sa iya nga reassignment sa Regional Office sang DPWH 6.
Apisar naapresyar man ni Mayor Treñas ang tikang ni DPWH Sec.
Dizon, apang luyag sini nga indi sa Region 6 ibutang si Pacanan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga dapat kun may ara sang accountability kag restoration sang public trust, wala ginabutang si Pacanan sa lugar nga may ara ini sang ginaatubang nga issue ukon reklamo.
Pahayag pa niya, posible nga may ara ini sa gihapon sang impluwensya kun igabutang siya sa regional office.
Suno pa kay Gorzal nga nagahingyo man ang alkalde nga i-reassign si Pacanan sa guwa sang region 6 kag nagpangabay man ini kay Dizon nga magdesignate na sang qualified nga persona agud pamunuan ang Iloilo City District Engineering Office (ICDEO).
Ika-40 nga death anniversary ni Evelio Javier, ginkomemorar sang bilog nga Antique
Ginkomemorar sang bilog nga Antique ang ika-40 nga death anniversary sang Antiqueño nga baganihan nga si anay Governor Evelio Javier subong nga adlaw sa EBJ Freedon Park kun sa diin nahamtang man ang iya nga rebulto.
Ang programa ang ginpangunahan sang mga opisyal sang probinsya sa pagpanguna ni Antique Governor Paolo Javier.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jose Ira Villanueva, isa sa mga abyan ni Evelio Javier, iya ginpahayag nga wala gid niya malimtan ang dedikasyon sang Antiqueno nga baganihan sa iya nga pagserbisyo bilang gobernador sadto.
Nagpanugyan man ini sa mga kabataan sa subong nga henerasyon nga ila man nga hatagan sang balor ang mga baganihan kaangay ni Javier nga nagsakripisyo sang ila kabuhi agud nga mangin hilway ang Pilipinas sa subong.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom sang Republic Act No.
7601, gindeklarar nga special non-working public holiday subong nga adlaw sa Antique, Capiz, Aklan, kag Iloilo agud dumdumon ang legasiya kag nangin kontribusyon sang anay gobernador.
Ginpa-Bombo ni Punong Barangay Pancho Vijuan sang Brgy.
Loboc, Lapuz ang mga nagalapta nga basura sa dalan sakop sang Coastal Road.
Ini matapos nga makit-an nga may ara sang tinumpok nga basura kag guba nga mga appliances ang nahamtang sa lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Vijuan, iya ginpahayag nga wala man sila sang ideya kun sin-o nga mga indibiwal nga nagalapta sang basura bangud indi man nila ini ma-monitor.
Apang pahayag man sang opisyal, dako ang posibilidad nga halin ini sa junkshop kag hungod nga ginabilin sa tion sang kagab-ihon agud nga wala sang makakita.
Nagapati man ini nga wala naghalin ang basura sa mga residente sang barangay bangud nga may ara sila sang regular nga garbage collection kada semana kag ila man nga gina-monitor ang basura sang ila nga mga pumuluyo.
Dugang pa niya nga magapatigayon sila sang clean-up drive sa masunod nga semana kaupod ang isa ka pribado nga organisasyon agud nga matinluan na ini.
Nagapangabay man ini sa kun sin-o ang nagapanag-ya sang mga basura kag iban pa nga mga gamit nga kuhaon kag tinluan nalang nila ini bangud nga magapangatubang sila sang penalidad kun sila ang madakpan.
RSTU 6, ginapasiguro nga wala sang maltreatment nga ginahimo sa mga police trainee
Ginpasiguro sang Regional Special Training Unit 6 (RSTU 6)nga wala sang hazing ukon ano man nga klase sang maltreatment nga ginahimo sa mga police trainee sa Western Visayas.
Ini kasunod sang natabo sa Police Regional Office–Bangsamoro Autonomous Region (PRO-BAR), kun sa diin gin-relieve ang 70 ka mga pulis matapos nga ginapangkastigo sang mga ini ang mga police trainee sa ila reception rites.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Lieutenant Colonel Darwin Valderas, officer in charge sang RSTU 6, iya ginpahayag nga samtang siya nagadumala sang unit, iya gid pagasiguradohon nga wala sang maltreatment ukon hazing nga matabo sa ila mga trainee.
Valderas, isa ini ka criminal act kag sinang-una pa nga pamaagi nga indi na dapat pag-ubrahon subong nga panahon.
Pahayag pa niya, may yara na sang anti-hazing law kun sa diin dapat mangin propesyonal na ang pagdumala sang mga training sa subong nga tion.
Nagapati man ini nga ang ano man nga sahi sang pagpang-abuso ang indi epektibo nga pamaagi agud magdisiplina sang mga trainee.
Ginpahayag pa niya nga may yara sang close supervision sa mga training sang kapulisan kag ginapaidalom man sa briefing ang mga Instructors kag Assistant Instructors (AI) antes mag-umpisa ang training.
Gina-engganyo man niya ang mga police trainee nga gilayon mag-report kun maka-eksperyensya sang pagpangmaltrato, bangud sigurohon nila nga manabat ang ang sin-o man nga maghimo sini.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, may ara sang ginpasakaan sang kaso nahanungod sa pagpang-abuso sa mga trainee sang Philippine National Police (PNP) Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) training, kun sa diin nagapakita ini nga seryoso ang ila opisina sa pagpatuman sang disiplina sang mga naga-abusar.
Nahibaluan man nga natalana nga magapaidalom subong nga bulan sa Basic Internal Security Operations Course (BISOC) training ang 281 ka mga pulis sa Western Visayas sa Camp Jalandoni, Brgy.
Former Senator Drilon, dismayado sa korapsyon nga nagaluntad sa Pinas
Nagpabutyag sang iya tuman nga pagkadismaya si former Senate President Franklin Drilon sa nagaluntad nga korapsyon sa Pilipinas.
Ginpunto sini ang mga palpak nga mga proyekto sa imprastaktura, flood control projects kag ilabi na ang farm-to-market roads nga suno sa iya, nangin farm-to-pocket roads.
Nagpanawagan man ini sa Office of the Ombudsman nga dasigon ang imbestigasyon sa flood control projects sa partikular sa Iloilo City kun sa diin nagabalor ini sang kapin ₱1.4 billion.
Suno kay Drilon, wala siya sang makita nga bastante nga paathag kun ngaa tuman ka dako ang budget kun ipaanggid sa mga flood control project sa iban nga mga lugar.
Nagpaandam si Drilon nga kun pabuyan-buyanan ini sang Ombudsman, magalala lang ang korapsyon sa mga proyekto nga pang-imprastraktura.
Gindugang naman ni Drilon nga 20% sang economic growth sang pungsod ang bangud sa government spending sa infrastructure, salary, social services kag iban pa, apang subong, ang amo nga porsyento ang wala nagakadto direkta sa mga government programs kundi halos sa bulsa na sang mga kurap nga opisyal.
Nagpangabay naman ini sa mga opisyal sa syudad sang Iloilo nga mag-ugyon agud nga mas mangin maayo ang ila nga serbisyo sa publiko kag matapna na ang korapsyon.
Bangkay nga na-recover sa naglugdang nga MV Trisha Kerstin 3, nagdangat na sa 52; Aleson shipping line, pasakaan sang administratibo nga kaso suno sa DOTr
Nagdangat na sa 52 ang bangkay nga na-recover sa naglugdang nga MV Trisha Kerstin 3 sa baybayon sang Baluk-Baluk Island, Basilan.
Sa padayon nga search and recovery operations sang mga katapo sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), amat-amat na nga nakit-an ang mga missing nga pasahero sang naglugdang nga passenger vessel.
Suno sa imbestigasyon sang Department of Transportation (DOTr), ‘overcapacity kag overloading’ ang rason sang paglugdang sang amo nga barko.
Ginmanduan na sang DOTr ang MARINA nga magpasaka sang administratibo nga kaso batok sa Aleson Shipping Lines, nga tag-iya sang amo nga maritime vessel.
Ginatutukan man sang legal team sang ahensya ang posibilidad sang kriminal nga kaso batok sa mga indibidwal nga responsable sa aberya.
Ginkakas naman sa puwesto ang pila ka personnel sang PCG sa Region 9, lakip na ang station commander sa Zamboanga, suno sa DOTr.
Nahibaluan nga una nga ginpunto sang PCG nga indi overloaded ang MV Trisha Kerstin 3 sang naglayag ini padulong sa Jolo.
Human rights lawyer, nagapati nga mismo opisyal sang gobyerno sang Pilipinas ang dapat manguna sa pagpangapin sa soberanya sang pungsod
Hugot nga nagapati ang isa ka human rights lawyer nga mismo ang mga opisyal sang gobyerno sang Pilipinas ang dapat magatindog agud pangapinan ang soberanya sang pungsod, ilabi na sa agawan sang teritoryo sa West Philippine Sea (WPS).
Jobert Pahilga, isa ka human rights lawyer, iya ginpahayag nga talawit kag daw pagsurrender ang ginabuhat sang pila ka senador sa pagpangapin sa China batok sa pag-claim sang Pilipinas sa WPS.
Ginpunto ni Pahilga ang mga kaangay pag-apin nga pahayag ni Senator Rodante Marcoleta batok sa Chinese embassy, nga nagpakamalaot sang pila ka lideres sang pungsod, lakip na si Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) spokesperson Commodore Jay Tarriela.
Dugang pa sini, makaalarma ang pagbais ni Marcoleta sa iya kaupdanan sa Senado nahanungod sa agawan sang teritoryo sa WPS, nga kaangay nagapabor sa China, bisan pa nga siya mismo ang isa sa mga lideres sang pungsod nga dapat nagasuporta sa kinamatarong sang Pilipinas sa iya teritoryo.
Paathag ni Pahilga nga sala gid ang mga pahayag ni Marcoleta kag indi ini ang buluhaton sang isa ka matuod nga Pilipino.
”Wala sang basehan kag wala sang ebidensya para itulod ang Presidente sa kaso”-Deputy Speaker Garin
Janette Garin, deputy speaker sang House of the Representative, iya ginpahayag nga wala sang basehan kag wala sang ebidensya para itulod ang Presidente sa kaso.
Suno pa kay Garin, base sa komitiba, wala sang direkta nga ebidensya nga nagatudlo nga may personal nga kahilabtanan ang Presidente sa mga alegasyon nga ginpahayag sa reklamo.
Dugang pa sini nga wala sang beripikado nga pruweba, kag kadam-an sang mga gin-attach nga ebidensya halin lamang sa social media posts kag pila ka online news articles.
Ginpahayag pa ni Garin nga ang mga alegasyon nga ginpasibangod sa Presidente nga may gingamit ini nga pondo, wala sang klaro nga pruweba kag naga-base lamang sa online claims.
Amo man ang isyu may kaangtanan sa wala pag-veto sang Presidente, nga indi makabig nga basehan para sa impeachment.
Tungod diri, wala sang kongresista nga nag-endorso sang impeachment complaint, gani indi ini nakaabot sa masunod nga lebel sang proseso.
Ang resolusyon sang kaso nagakahulugan man sang isa ka tuig nga ban sa pagfile liwat sang pareho nga impeachment complaint.
Suno kay Garin, pareho lamang ang iga-agyan nga proseso sang impeachment complaint batok kay Marcos sa ginfile man batok sa Bise Presidente.
Ginpahayag man ni Garin nga sa pagtapos sang resolusyon nagahatag ini sang maayo nga panugod sa administrasyon kag magapahanugot ini nga matutukan sang gobyerno ang paghatag sang serbisyo sa pungsod.
Lakip na diri ang mga programa nga maga-uswag sang ekonomiya, magapabaskog sang trabaho, kag magapadayon sa ginatawag nga “back to work” nga direksyon sang administrasyon.
HPG, ginakabig nga patalang ang paggamit sang bayo sang Criminology sa kaso sang motornapping sa Quintin Salas, Jaro, I.C
Ginakabig sang Highway Patrol Group (HPG) nga patalang ang paggamit sang bayo sang Criminology kag may logo sang Philippine National Police (PNP) sang isa ka suspek sa kaso sang motornapping sa Quintin Salas, Jaro, Iloilo City.
Ryan Palaran, Team Leader sang Provincial Highway Patrol Group, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang resulta sa imbestigasyon nga ginapatigayon sang ila talatapan kun sa diin nagapakig-angot man sila sa intelligence community.
Suno pa kay Palaran ila nga ginasundan ang mga CCTV footages nga nahamtang sa lugar, ang direksyon nga ginhalinan sang motor agud makadugang sa ila nga pag-imbestigar kag mahibaluan kun sin-o ang suspek sa likod sang motornapping.
Suno pa sa iya, wala pa makilal-i ang suspek bangud indi klaro ang itsura sini kay naga-takilid sa Closed Circuit Television nga amo ang isa sa ila ginabasehan sa imbestigasyon.
Suno pa kay Palaran indi buluhaton sang isa ka pulis ang kaangay sini nga pagpangawat kag isa ka criminal ang nagbuhat sini.
Dugang pa niya nga indi sila mag-untat sa ila imbestigasyon tubtob nga indi pa makilal-an kag madakpan ang suspek.
Guba nga dalan sa idalom sang Ungka flyover, ginpa-BOMBO!
Ginpa-Bombo sang pila ka mga driver ang dako nga perwisyo nga ila na-eksperyensyahan sa guba kag naga-bawud nga dalan sa idalom sang Ungka Flyover sa Ungka II, Pavia.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Edwin Baclas, isa ka jeepney driver nga naga-agi sa lugar, iya ginpahayag nga dako gid nga problema ang amo nga kahimtangan sang dalan bangud masami naga-umpok-umpok ang mga salakyan nga naga-agi sa amo nga lugar.
Suno pa sa iya nga kun mag-ulan, nagatinir ang tubig sa mga buho sang dalan, nga nagadugang pa gid sa kabudlayan sang ila paglabay sa nasambit nga dalan.
Ginpahayag man niya nga madugay na ang nasambit nga sitwasyon, apang wala pa sila nakakita sang mga tikang sang opisyales para makay-o ini.
Bangud sini, nagatuga ini sang mabug-at nga trapiko, kag napilitan ang mga salakyan nga maghinay-hinay sa lubak-lubak nga dalan kun sa diin delikado ilabi na sa mga motorsiklo kag salakyan.
Nagahingyo ang mga apektado nga motorista nga mahatagan kuntani sang solusyon sang mga barangay officials agud mapakay-o gilayon ang amo nga dalan.
Dugang pa sini bangud ini isa ka national road, mas nagadamo ang naga-agi nga mga salakyan kag tawo, rason nga kinahanglan ini hatagan sang atensyon antes pa ini magresulta sa madamo nga aksidente.
Bangkay nga na-recover sa naglugdang nga MV Trisha Kerstin 3, nagdangat na sa 51
Nagdangat na sa 51 ang bangkay nga na-recover sa naglugdang nga MV Trisha Kerstin 3 sa baybayon sang Baluk-Baluk Island, Basilan.
Suno sa Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), nagpadayon ang mga technical divers sa ila underwater search and recovery operations subong nga adlaw, kun sa diin lima (5) ka panibag-o nga bangkay ang ila nakit-an.
Nagsulod ang mga divers sa economy accommodation sa first deck sang barko, kun sa diin nasapwan nila ang isa ka lapsag, isa ka menor de edad, duha ka babaye, kag isa ka lalaki.
Gindala sa Zamboanga City ang mga bangkay agud pagadal-on sa Talabaan Cemetery para sa pagproseso sang mga forensic experts.
Matandaan nga naglugdang ang nasambit nga barko sang Enero 26, 2026 sang kaagahon.
Sa karon, padayon nga nagasinggitan ang pamilya sang mga biktima sang hustisya batuk sa Aleson Shipping Lines Inc., nga nagapanag-iya sang amo nga passenger vessel.
Nagapadayon man ang imbestigasyon sang Department of Transportation (DOTr) nahanungod sa amo nga insidente.
DA, ginakonsiderar ang pagpataas sang taripa sa artificial sugar agud mapabaskog ang demand sa lokal nga kalamay
Ginakonsiderar sa karon sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pagpataas sang taripa sa artificial sugar agud mapabaskog ang demand sa lokal nga kalamay, kasunod sang pagpalawig sang sugar import ban hasta sa katapusan sang 2026.
Suno kay DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., na-istoryahan na ang plano kaupod kay Finance Secretary Frederick Go kag may permiso na ini nga tun-an.
Nagdako ang pag-import sang artificial sugar sang 2025 sang halos 200,000 ka tonelada, nga nakaapekto sa pag-estimate sang gobyerno sa konsumo sang kalamay sa pungsod.
Ginklaro sang DA nga indi man magtaas sang sobra ang taripa, nga sa karon yara sa 5%.
Plano man sang ahensya nga i-regulate ang importasyon sang molasses kag magpatigayon sang audit sa tanan nga konsumidor agud masiguro ang husto nga proseso sini.
Tourist boat nga may sakay nga malapit 20 ka tawo, ginpahayag nga nagkulob sa Carles
Ginpahayag nga nagkulob sa kalalawran nga sakop sang Carles, Iloilo ang isa ka tourist boat nga may sakay nga malapit 20 ka mga tawo.
Base sa impormasyon, ginhampak sang tuman ka dalagko nga balod ang amo nga tourist boat nga rason kun ngaa nagkapan ini antes amat-amat nga nagkulob.
Na-rescue naman ang tanan nga sakay sini nga kalabanan sa ila ang mga lokal nga turista.
HPG Iloilo, ginklaro nga may ginasunod nga mga proseso ang tanan nga kaso antes ideretso sa ila talatapan
Ginklaro sang Highway Patrol Group (HPG) Iloilo nga may ginasunod nga mga proseso ang tanan nga kaso nga may kaangtanan sa dalanun antes ini ideretso sa ila talatapan.
Ryan Palaran, Team Leader sang Provincial Highway Patrol Team Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga suno sa PNP Memorandum Circular 2025-049 ukon ang “Reporting and Disposition of Stolen and Recovered or Impounded Motor Vehicles,” nagakadapat anay nga magpalapit sa lokal nga kapulisan ang tagreklamo agud magpasaka sang blotter report antes ini i-refer sa HPG.
Dugang pa ni Palaran nga pagkatapos sang pagpablotter, maga-coordinate ang mga ini sa territorial police agud hibaluon ang sitwasyon kag makabulig sa imbestigasyon sang kaso.
Ini nga klaripikasyon sang HPG Iloilo ang sabat sa pila ka mga palamangkutanon sang mga biktima sang sunod-sunod nga kaso sang motornapping sa siyudad sang Iloilo.
DILG, ginklaro ang pagpatuman sang Anti-Epal Policy sa bahin sang Philippine National Police ukon PNP
Ginklaro sang Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) 6 ang mga klaripikasyon natuhoy sa pagpatuman sang Memorandum Circular No.
2026-006 ukon Anti-Epal Policy sa bahin sang Philippine National Police ukon PNP.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay DILG 6 Regional Director Juan Jovian Ingeniero, CESO III, iya ginpahayag nga dapat wala gid sang personal nga pangalan sang bisan sin-o nga politiko sa mga kagamitan kag pasilidad sang kapulisan pareho sang police stations, patrol cars kag iban pa nga ginagamit sa operasyon sang PNP.
Suno kay Director Ingeniero, bisan pa donasyon ini sang isa ka politiko, indi gihapon pwede ang pagbutang sang ila personal nga ngalan, litrato ukon slogan bangud ang nasambit nga mga kagamitan ginakabig nga para sa publiko kag indi personal nga representasyon sang isa ka opisyal.
Pahayag pa niya, kun may yara man sang ginapatuman nga proyekto ukon programa ang isa ka police unit, dapat makita lamang amo ang opisyal nga ngalan kag logo sang Police Regional Office 6 ukon ngalan sang police station agud mapabilin ang institutional identity sang organisasyon.
Gina-discourage naman subong sang ahensya ang pagpangayo sang sponsorship para sa mga proyekto ukon programa agud malikawan ang posibilidad sang personal nga promosyon ukon impluwensya halin sa nagasuporta.
Ginpahayag man niya nga wala ginadumilian ang mga opisyal sang kapulisan nga maghimo sang ila kaugalingon nga tagline basta wala ini naga-angot sa bisan ano nga politiko kag wala nagahatag sang personal nga promosyon.
Ginpaathag sag DILG 6 nga ang ginatugotan lamang amo ang paggamit sang opisyal nga logo sang local government unit ukon sang PNP bangud ini ang naga-representar sa institusyon kag indi sa personal nga pagkakilanlan sang isa ka opisyal.
Sa bahin naman sang pagpasiguro nga wala sang police personnel ang magalapas sa nasambit nga policy, ginasalig na sang DILG 6 ang imbestigasyon kay Police Regional Office 6 Director PBGen Josefino Ligan ang imbestigasyon amo man ang mga penalidad nga pagatubangon sang mga magabayolar.
CEO, ginklaro nga wala sang nakita nga dako nga guba sa pasilidad sang ICCC
Ginklaro sang City Engineer’s Office (CEO) nga wala sang dako nga deterioration ukon seryoso nga guba nga nakita sa mga pasilidad sang Iloilo City Community College (ICCC) sa distrito sang Molo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jose Cloyd Grecia, structural in charge sang City Engineer’s Office, iya ginpahayag nga may ara lamang sang gamay nga pagkay-o sa pila ka bahin sang eskwelahan, apang wala ini nagakahulugan nga deteriorated na ang estruktura.
Suno kay Grecia, base sa ila technical assessment, indi delikado ang kahimtangan sang Iloilo City Community College kag minor repairs lamang ang kinahanglan nga obrahon kag indi ang rehabilitasyon.
Samtang, ginbalikan man ang isyu nga isa sa ginhalinan sang rason sa pag-apruba sang Iloilo City Council sa loan agreement nga P300 million sa Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) amo ang pagpakay-o sang building sa Iloilo City Community College sa distrito sang Molo kag ang plano nga proposed expansion sang Unibersidad sa Fort San Pedro, City Proper.
Sa matandaan nga sang nagligad nga semana gin-aprubahan na sang Iloilo City Council ang paghatag sang otoridad kay Mayor Raisa Treñas nga magpirma sa loan agreement nga labing una nga loan sang City Government sa idalom sang administrasyon ni Mayor Raisa.
Mohon, Arevalo, I.C, nakitaan sang madamo nga mga litik
Nakitaan sang litik ang bahin sang Esplanade sa Brgy.
Mohon, Arevalo, Iloilo City matapos ang pag-inulan sang nagligad nga mga inadlaw.
Ginabulubanta nga yara sa tatlo ka pulgada ang buka sang litik, samtang yara sa 25 ka metros ang kalabaon sini.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Francis Acap sang Brgy.
Mohon, Arevalo, Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga may nagpahibalo sa iya nga mga pumuluyo natuhoy sa litik nga nakita sa Esplanade.
Suno pa sa iya nagakahangawa sila tungod nga alagyan ini sang mga nagapaninda nga mga pumuluyo nga nagaagi sa nasambit nga lugar.
Suno pa kay Punong Barangay Acap, ang St.
Gerard Construction Development Corp., amo ang nag-obra sang amo nga proyekto nga ginapanag-iyahan kag ginadumalahan sang Pamilya Discaya, kun sa diin naglab-ot sa masobra P90 million ang gin-alokar nga budget para diri.
Dugang pa ni Punong Barangay Acap, suno sa mga nakakita samtang gina-construct pa ang Esplanade, ang dose ka metros nga sheet pile nga dapat ibutang sa idalom, gin-utod pa sa tatlo ukon apat ka bahin.
Amo ini ang ginalantaw nga isa sa rason sang paglitik bangud indi masarangan sang sheet pile ang makusog nga current situation sang tubig kag manabaw ang paglubong sini, rason nga nag-ab-ab ang kilid sang nasambit nga porsyon sang Esplanade.
Nahibaluan nga may ara sang tatlo ka phase ang amo nga proyekto.
Sa karon, ang Phase 1 pa lamang ang natapos, samtang ang duha ka phase wala pa.
Lain-lain man ang budget sang tagsa ka phase sang proyekto, kag ang kalabaon sini halin sa Mohon Bridge asta sa Sto.
Ang Phase 1 nagalaba lamang sang mga 300 ka metros.
Gin-umpisahan ang amo nga proyekto sang Enero 2025 kag nalab-ot subong nga tuig, apang gin-untat anay ang operasyon sang proyekto.
Ginalauman sang Barangay nga masekyar ang lugar sang siyudad agud mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga tikang ukon solusyon ang amo nga problema.
Nagpanugyan man si Punong Barangay Acap sa iya mga pumuluyo nga mag-aligmat ilabi na ang mga yara malapit sa suba, agud mangin handa sila kun may matabo, bangud kon nag-umpisa na ini guba, mahimo ini magapadayon kag mangin delikado para sa mga nagaestar sa kilid sang suba.
PRO-6, ginamonitor ang mga kapulisan agud masiguro nga wala sang nagalapas sa Anti-Epal Policy
Kabahin ang Philippine National Police ukon PNP sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno nga nalakip sa direktiba sang Department of the Interior and Local Government ukon DILG sa Memorandum Circular No.
Madumduman nga ang nasambit nga direktiba amo ang pagdumili kag pagkakas sang mga pangalan, litrato, logo, initials, color motif, slogan officials, ukon ano man nga maangut sa public officials lakip na ang proponent mismo sa mga government funded projects.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Lailyn Sencil, spokesperson sang Police Regional Office 6, iya ginpahayag nga bilang pagsunod sa nasambit nga direktiba, gina-monitor na sang Police Regional Office (PRO) 6 ang ila mga personnel agud masiguro nga wala sang nagalapas sa ginapatuman nga Anti-Epal Policy.
Ginpahayag man ni Sencil nga nagapangayo pa sila sang klaripikasyon halin sa Department od the Interior and Local government natuhoy sa mas detalyado nga aplikasyon sang polisiya sa bahin sang PNP.
Ini bangud nga ang PNP may yara na sang ginapatuman nga standard kag institutional identity base sa national guidelines sang organisasyon, lakip na ang disenyo sang ila mga pasilidad, markings sang mga police station kag police vehicles, kag amo man sa paggamit sang opisyal nga kolor kag logo sang PNP.
Dugang pa ni Sencil nga wala pa sang may na-monitor nga kaso sang paglapas sa nasambit nga polisa bangud padayon ang pagpatuman sang disiplina kag pagsunod sang mga police personnel sa mga patakaran sang organisasyon.
Isa ka unit sang taxi, natumbahan sang nalukat nga puno sang acacia sa R.
Natumbahan ang sa ka unit sang taxi matapos nga nalukat ang century old nga puno sang acacia sa bahin sang R.
Mapa St., Mandurriao, Iloilo City pasado las-5 kaina sang aga bangud sa wala untat nga pagbubu sang ulan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Edever Cabril, driver sang amo nga taxi, iya ginpahayag nga nagpadulong ini sa lugar agud nga magpangape bangud yara gid sa tubang sang isa ka bakery ang nasambit nga puno sang acacia.
Hana nga nagwa ini sa iya taxi nga ginamaneho, nakabati ini sang pagragaak sang kahoy kag didto na sini nakita ang puno sang acacia nga natumba gani gilayun ini nga nagbalik sa sulod sang taxi.
Maswerte naman nga wala masamaran sang husto ang amo nga driver kag naka-angkun lamang sang pilas sa iya kamot tuga sang pagka-buka sang windshield sang taxi nga iya ginamaneho matapos nga napilpilan sang pila ka mga sanga sang amo nga kahoy.
Nagdangat naman sang pila ka oras ang clearing operations nga ginpatigayon sang katapo sang Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) kag General Services Office (GSO) antes natigayun nga nakuha ang amo nga puno sang acacia.
City GSO, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga dumilian ang pag-stanby sa mga dalagko kag may edad na nga mga puno sang kahoy kun naga-ulan
Nagpanugyan ang City General Services Office (GSO) sa publiko nga dumilian ang pag-stanby sa mga dalagko kag may edad na nga mga puno sang kahoy, ilabi na kun naga-ulan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay GSO Head Engr.
Neil Ravena, iya ginpahayag nga apisar nga naga-conduct sila sang pruning sa mga sanga sang kahoy sa dalanun sang siyudad, indi sa gihapon masikyar ang kapasidad sang iban nga mga kahoy ilabi na kun tyempo sang tag-uluan.
Dugang pa sini nga dapat gid likawan sang mga pumuluyo ang pagpasilong sa mga dalagkuan kag may edad na nga mga kahoy ilabi na kun naga-ulan bangud sa posibilidad sang pag-collapse sini.
Nagpaathag man si Ravena nga ang ila opisina ang indi gilayun makapatigayun sang insigida nga pag-utod ukon pagbuhin sang mga sanga sang ka kahoy bangud kinahanglan pa sang permit halin sa Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) sa pagpatigayon sang amo nga operasyon.
Panibag-o nga oil price hike sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo, iga-patuman subong nga semana
Iga-patuman sa subong nga semana ang panibag-o nga oil price hike sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Yari ang panibag-o nga price adjustment nga epektibo bwas nga adlaw sang Martes, Pebrero 10.
Suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) ini nga mixed fuel price movements ang apektado bangud sa de-escalation signals sa tunga sang United States kag Iran.
Simbahan, magabulig sa pagtapna sa krisis sa edukasyon sa pungsod
Ginpangayo ang bulig sang mga kaparian agud nga matapna ang mga nagapanguna nga problema sa mga eskwelahan sa pungsod nga amo ang nagatuga sang krisis sa edukasyon.
Kabahin ini sang na-istoryahan sa 42nd National Social Action General Assembly (NASAGA) 2026 sang Caritas Philippines sa Tagaytay City.
Ini nga pagtilipon ang gina-updan sang mga obispo, clergy, kag social action workers agud nga makatutok sa misyon sang simbahan para sa social justice kag iban pa nga isyu kaangay sang kalinong.
Meliton Oso, director sang Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center (JASAC), nagtutok ang EDCOM 2 sa makatulublag nga reports kaangot sa epekto sang mass promotion, malnutrisyon, kag bullying sa mga kabataan.
Sa mass promotion, ginapasaka sa masunod nga grade level ang mga estudyante sa mga pampubliko nga eskwelahan apisar nga kulang sa kapasidad kag kaalam.
Sa bullying, ginsulit ni Oso ang report sang EDCOM 2 kag data sang international assessments nga nag-resulta sa pagbansag sa Pilipinas bilang “bullying capital of the world”
Sa malnutrisyon, ginplastar man sini ang datos kun sa diin indi husto ang preparasyon ukon kakulang sang pagkaon nga may malain nga epekto sa ikaayong-lawas sang kabataan.
Gin-cite man sini ang pagtuon sang UNICEF paagi sa World Vision PH nga 95 ka mga Pilipino ang nagakapatay kada adlaw bangud sang malnutrisyon.
Suno kay Oso, ginbaton sang kaparian ang hangkat sang EDCOM 2 nga buligan sila nga ma-address ini nga isyu paagi sa pagbulig sa feeding program kag library para sa kabataan.
Nagpanawagan man ini sa mga nutritionist nga mag-volunteer sa feeding program kag library program nga plano sang JASAC.
Una naman nga nagpahayag ang Department of Education (DepEd) nga pasangkaron pa sini ang partnership sini sa simbahan kag sa civil society organizations para sa de-kalidad nga edukasyon para sa tanan nga mga Pilipino nga kabataan.#
Visayas; Yellow warning, ginpasaka sa kabanwahanan sa Iloilo
Mangin magal-umon gihapon ang panahon kag ma-eksperyensyahan ang pag-ulan-ulan subong nga Lunes, Pebrero 9, sa madamo nga parte sang pungsod partikular sa Luzon kag Visayas bangud sa epekto sang shear line.
Suno sa state weather bureau, magadala ini sang lapta-lapta nga pag-ulan kag isolated thunderstorms sa Western Visayas, Eastern Visayas, Catanduanes, Albay, Sorsogon, kag Masbate.
Nagpaandam man ang ahensya sang posible nga flash floods ukon landslides sa sini nga areas.
3 sang ahensya alas singko kaina sang kaagahon, may YELLOW WARNING nga ginpasaka para sa pila ka mga banwa sa probinsya sang Iloilo lakip na sa Calinog, Dueñas, Badiangan, Passi City, Bingawan, Janiuay, Maasin, kag Lambunao.
Buot silingon sini, posible ang pagbaha sa manubo nga mga lugar kag pagtiphag sang duta sa mataas naman nga areas.
Ma-eksperyensyahan naman ang pag-ulan sa masunod nga isa tubtub duha ka oras sa syudad sang Iloilo amo man sa mga banwa sa probinsya sang Iloilo lakip ang San Enrique, Oton, Tigbauan, Guimbal, San Miguel, Pavia, Leganes, Zarraga, Dumangas, Miagao, SanJoaquin, Igbaras, Tubungan, Leon, SantaBarbara, Pototan, Sara, Lemery, SanRafael, Dingle, Anilao, Barotac Nuevo, Mina, New Lucena, Cabatuan, kag Alimodian.
Wala naman sang low pressure area (LPA) nga gina-monitor sa sulod kag gwa sang Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR).
Una na nga ginpahayag sang PAGASA nga posible nga isa lang ang bagyo sa PAR subong nga Pebrero nga amo ang Basyang nga naglaslas sang nagligad nga semana partikular na sa northern Mindanao.
Samtang, sa separado nga report, ginalauman nga maga-umpisa ang PAGASA sa pagpaguwa sang Daily Heat Index Forecast sa March 1, 2026 kadungan sang pagsugod naman sang tag-ilinit diri sa pungsod.
Medical experts, nagpahanumdom nga sarang gid nga tunaan sang pagbarado sang ugat sa Corazon ang mga nagkalain-lain nga butang nga indi ma-control sang isa ka indibidwal
Nagpahanumdom ang mga medical experts nga sarang gid nga tunaan sang pagbarado sang ugat sa Corazon ang mga nagkalain-lain nga butang nga indi ma-control sang isa ka indibidwal.
James Catoto, interventional cardiologist sang Medical City, ila ginpahayag nga ang uncontrolled nga blood sugar, cholesterol kag hypertension ang sarang gid nga magtuga sang pagbarado sang ugat sa Corazon ukon heart sang isa ka tawo.
Dugang pa sini nga paagi sa moderno nga pagbulong, naga-conduct ang mga ini sang ‘Drug-Coated Angioplasty’ sa Corazon sang indibidwal nga naga-suprer sang nasambit nga sakit.
Ini nga procedure naga-gamit sang drug-coated balloons (DCBs), bilang bulong sa coronary artery disease (CAD) pamaagi sa antiproliferative drugs nga gina-direct sa arterial wall.
Ini nga mga ihibalo ang kabahin sang ila kampanya kadungan man sang selebrasyon sang ‘Heart’s Month’ awareness, nga mahatagan sang insakto nga ihibalo ang mga indibidwal natuhoy sa mga heart diseases.
Iloilo Provincial Treasurer’s Office, padayon sa gihapon nga nagabaton sa gusto maka-avail sang amnesty
Liwat nga nagpahanumdum ang Iloilo Provincial Treasurer’s Office nga padayon sila sa gihapon nga nagabaton sang gusto maka-avail sang programa sa amnestiya sa real property tax (RPT) nga magatapos sa Hulyo 5, 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Fatima Bayona, Chief sang Tax Enforcement and Field Supervision Division sang Office of the Provincial Treasurer sang Probinsya sang Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga para ini sa mga real property tax owners’ nga gusto magbayad sang wala pa nabayaran nga real property tax.
Suno pa sa iya nga pwede magpadulong ang property owner sa tagsa nila ka mga munisipalidad kun sa diin ang ila ginapanag-iyahan nga mga propidad ukon sa Bayad Center sa provincial capitol para makapag-avail sang amnestiya.
Dugang pa niya, ang katuyuan sang tax amnesty amo ang pag-engganyo sa mga property owner nga mangin matawhay ang ila obligasyon sa pagbayad sang buwis.
Nahibaluan nga ang amnestiya sulod pa sa idalom sang Republic Act 12001 ukon ang Real Property Valuation and Assessment Reform Act (RPVARA)nga may katuyuan nga mangin uniform kag base sa real market value.
Dugang pa ni Bayona, madamo sang ginatung-an ang real property tax nga nagakadto man sa mga maayo nga programa sang gobyerno para man sa benepisyo sang mga tawo.
Anay myembro sang NPA, napamatud-an nga tuman ka budlay nga mangin kabahin sang grupo
Napamatud-an sang isa anay ka myembro sang rebelde nga grupo nga wala sang kamatuoran ang pangako sang rebelde nga New People’s Army nga mangin masulhay ang kabuhi kun magsulod sa ila nga grupo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jenamie Tacanloy, iya ginpakigbahin ang iya mga personal nga na-eksperyensyahan kun paano siya na-recruit kag nangin parte sang rebelde nga grupo.
Suno sa iya, nagsugod ini bangud sang problema pinansyal, kag gin-brainwash ini sang iya nobyo nga magabag-o ukon mangin manami ang kabuhi sini kun magsulod ini sa grupo.
Ginhambalan siya nga bisan mag-eskwela ukon makatapos pa ini sa iya nga pagtuon, wala man sang may matabo nga pagbag-o sa iya kabuhi bangud indi man manami ang pagpang-gobyerno sa pungsod kag didto na ini nagsaka sa bukid upod sa mga rebelde.
Nagpabilin si Tacanloy sa nga grupo sa sulod sang isa ka tuig kag tunga.
Suno sa iya, sa una manami pa ang pagtratar sa ila, apang sang nagdugay, nangin mabudlay na ang ila sitwasyon kag masami sila nga gutom.
Nadesisyuan na lang sini nga magbiya kag magpalagyo sa rebelde nga grupo sang nagbusong na ini sang isa ka bulan.
Pagkatapos sang ila pagpalagyo, nagkadto sila anay sa Manila sang iya partner kag nagtinir didto sang anum ka bulan.
Pagkatapos sadto, nakig-angot sila sa ila LGU agud malimpyuhan ang ila pangalan agud makapangabuhi na sila sang matalunsay.
Napamatud-an sang isa anay ka myembro sang rebelde nga grupo nga si Jenamie Tacanloy nga wala sang kamatuoran ang pangako sang mga NPA nga mangin masulhay ang imo kabuhi kun ikaw magasulod sa ila nga sabak.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Tacanloy, iya ginpakigbahin ang iya mga personal nga na-eksperyensyahan kun paano siya narecruit nangin parte sang rebelde nga grupo.
Suno sa iya, nagsugod ini bangud sang problema pinansyal, kag gin-brainwash ini nga magabag-o ukon mangin manami ang kabuhi sini kun magasulod ini sa grupo.
Ginhambalan siya nga bisan mag-eskwela ukon makatapos pa ini sa iya nga pagtuon, wala man sang may matabo nga pagbag-o sa iya kabuhi bangud indi man manami ang pagpang-gobyerno sa pungsod.
Nagpabilin si Tacanloy sa rebelde nga grupo sa sulod sang isa ka tuig kag tunga.
Suno sa iya, sa una manami pa ang pagtratar sa ila, apang sang nagdugay, ato na kag ila nahibaluan ang kamatuoran sa ila pagsulod sa rebelde nga grupo.
May mga tion nga sa isa ka adlaw indi sila kakaon, kag saging lamang ang ila ginakaon.
Ginpakigbahin man ni Tacanloy ang isa sa pinakamasakit nga eksperyensya niya samtang yara siya sa ambush position, nga kinahanglan magpanaw sang bilog nga adlaw agud makapalagyo.
Nadesisyuan na lang sini nga maghalin sa rebelde nga grupo sang nagbusong na ini sang isa ka bulan.
Suno pa sa iya nga amo ini ang nagtulod sa iya nga planuhan ang iya pagpalagyo.
Ginpakigbahin pa sini nga mahapos ang pag-recruit sa armado nga grupo, apang tuman gid kabudlay ang pagguwa.
Pagkatapos sadto nagpakig-coordinate sila sa ila LGU agud malimpyuhan ang ila pangalan agud makapangabuhi na sila sang matalunsay.
Suspek sa paghimulos patay sa isa ka dalaga sa Calinog, napasakaan na sang kaso
Napasakaan na sang kaso nga Rape with Homicide ang suspek sa paghimulos kag pagpatay sa hinablos sini sa Brgy.
Ang biktima ginkilala kay Alyas Ice, 18 anyos, kag isa ka volleyball player.
Samtang, ang suspek amo si alyas Bok, 27 anyos, tumandok sang amo man nga lugar kag pakaduha sang iloy sang biktima.
Myles Dieron, hepe sang Calinog Municipal Police Station, ginpahayag sini nga natigayon nga mapasakaan sang kaso ang suspek kahapon nga adlaw Pebrero 7, 2026.
Ginahulat pa sa gihapon ang resulta sang DNA test sang suspek.
Madumduman nga una gin-alegar nga nagpanginmatay ang biktima bangud sang laslas sa iya kamot.
Apang sang ginpaidalom ini sa autopsy didto nakumpirma nga ginhimuslan ang biktima antes ini nga ginpatay.
Nagsungka naman ang suspek sa kapulisan kag gin-ako ang krimen nga iya ginhimo.
Nahibaluan nga temporaryo nga nagatinir ang dalaga sa iya lolo matapos mag-untat sa pag-eskwela, bangud ginkuha anay ini sang iya iloy halin sa iya amay sa Capiz agud may upod ang lolo sini sa Calinog.
Sa subong, yara na ang suspek sa kustodiya sang Calinog Municipal Police Station.
Iloilo Provincial Government, nagpain sang P9M nga pondo para sa pagbakal sang rabies vaccine
Nagpain ang Iloilo Provincial Government sang P9 milyon nga pondo para sa pagbakal sang kapin 21,000 ka vial sang rabies vaccine nga gamiton sa tatlo ka bulan nga province-wide mass dog vaccination campaign nga ginlunsyar sini nga 2026.
Ginapangunahan ini sang Iloilo Provincial Veterinary Office (IPVO) nga may katuyuan nga mabakunahan ang indi magnubo sa 70% sang ginabulubanta masobra 337,000 ka ido sa bug-os nga probinsya.
Darel Tabuada, Provincial veterinarian, iya ginpahayag nga ang kadalag-an sang kampanya nagadepende sa kooperasyon sang publiko kag sa responsable nga pagpanag-iya sang ila mga ido.
Suno sa Rabies Prevention and Control Accomplishment Report, sang 2025, nakapa-bakuna ang probinsya sang masobra 2, 800 ka mga ido ukon 78.69 percent sang ginabulubanta nga masobra 3,600 ka dog population.
Sa 43 ka banwa sang probinsya, ang Cabatuan amo ang nakaangkon sang 100 percent nga rabies vaccination coverage.
Gin-sundan ini sang Tigbauan, Banate, Leganes kag Igbaras.
Para man mapunggan ang pagdamo sang populasyon sang ido masobra 1,200 ka ido ang ginpa-kastrate.
Tabuada nga ang mga tag-iya sang ido may dakuonga papel sa kadalag-an sang programa.
ang ini nga tatlo ka bulan nga mass dog vaccination program nga may katuyuan nga mapunggan ang rabies cases kag mangin sigurado ang kaluwasan sang publiko sa bug-os nga Iloilo.
Ang padayon nga vaccination drive kabahin sang mga tikang sang probinsya nga mangin rabies-free ang Iloilo antes mag-abot ang 2030.
Reklamo sa pagsukot sang dugang nga plete pakadto sa Airport, nakadangat na kay Mayor Treñas
Naglab-ot na kay Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang reklamo nahanungod sa pagsukot sang dugang nga ₱50 sa mga pasahero halin sa Iloilo International Airport – sa taxi man ukon sa app-based transport.
Magapatigayon man ini sang meeting sa masunod nga semana.
Dugang pa ni Mayor Treñas, iya man sunod nga ipatawag ang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) kag Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board(LTFRB) agud matalakay ang problema kag maklaruhan ang publiko sa nagakaigo nga tikang nga ila himuon.
Ginapasalig man sini nga ang kaangay nga problema sa pagpanukot dugang sang plete ang iga-address gilayon kag may nagakaigo nga accountability, insakto nga mga tikang agud maprotektahan ang publiko kag pangalan sang Iloilo.
Senator Ping Lacson, hugot nga nanindugan nga indi sini pagtugtan nga isuko sang Pilipinas ang Kalayaan Islands sa China
Hugot nga nagpanindugan si Senator Panfilo “Ping” Lacson nga indi niya pagtugtan nga basta-basta nalang isuko sang Pilipinas ang Kalayaan Islands.
Ini nga panindugan ni Lacson ang sabat sa pahayag ni Senator Rodante Marcoleta nga “isuko na lang” ang Kalayaan Islands sa China, bangud ini ang malayo na sa exclusive economic zone (EEZ) sang Pilipinas.
Suno kay Lacson, indi niya ini pag-tugutan kay ang Kalayaan Islands ang kabahin nga pulo sang Palawan, kag gina-istaran sang indi magnubo sa 300 ka Pilipino.
Base sa prinsipyo sang “res nullius” ukon “terra nullius,” ang una nga tawo nga makadiskubre kag makapuyo sa duta nga wala sang may nagapanag-iya ang ginakilala bilang lehitimong nga naga-angkun sini.
Ginhimo ni Lacson bilang halimbawa si Tomas Cloma, nga isa ka abogado kag adventurer, nga nakadiskubre sang Spratly Islands kag gin-angkun ini antes ipasa sa gobyerno sang Pilipinas.
Bangud sini, suno sa batas, ang Pilipinas ang legal nga nagapanag-iya sang Kalayaan Islands.
Dugang pa ni Lacson, ang arbitral award sa West Philippine Sea wala nagasakop sa Kalayaan Islands, lakip na ang Pag-asa Island, gani indi dapat ini isuko.
Depensa naman ni Senator Marcoleta, nga ang iya ginpahayag ginasala-interpret lang, kag indi niya buot isuko ang Kalayaan Islands.
Exportation sang prutas, nagsanyog sang tuig 2025 suno sa Department of Agriculture
Nagsanyog ang exportation sang prutas sang tuig 2025 suno sa Department of Agriculture.
Ini amo ang nagbulig agud magnubo ang kakulangan sa agricultural trade sang Pilipinas bangud man sa mas hapos nga importation.
Base sa datos sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), nagdangat sa 884.77 milyon US Dollar ang agricultural export sang Pilipinas sang Disyembre 2025, nga nagsaka sang 19% kumpara sang nagligad nga tuig kag naga-representar sang 36% sang kabilugan nga agricultural trade sang pungsod.
Samtang, ang agricultural import ang nagdangat sa 1.55 bilyon US Dollar ukon 64% sang kabuuan nga trade.
Bangud sini, ang agricultural trade gap ang nagdangat sa 668.35 milyon US Dollar, nga 24% nga mas manubo kumpara sang nagligad nga tuig.
Pinaka-dako nga export sang Pilipinas amo ang mga “edible fruits kag mga kararuton,” amo man ang mga citrus fruits, nga nagdangat sa 329.72 milyon US Dollar ukon 37% sang kabilugan nga agricultural export sang pungsod.
BM Mondejar, pabor sa pagbalik sang initial screening sa mga pasahero sa Iloilo International Airport
Pabor si 2nd District Board Member June Mondejar sa pagbalik sang initial screening sa mga pasahero sa Iloilo International Airport.
Ini kasunod ini sang insidente nga natabo sang ligad nga shooting incident matapos nangtaya ang isa ka pasahero sang kutsilyo sa sulod sang airport.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mondejar, bilang Chair sang Committee on Public Order and Safety, iya ginpahayag nga kinahanglan nga unahon ang seguridad sang mga pasahero antes ang convenience.
Dugang pa niya, indi pwede nga isakripisyo ang seguridad sang mga pasahero sa pagpadali lang sang proseso sa pagpasulod sa airport.
Suno sa iya, ang pagbalik sang initial screening isa ka importante nga tikang agud mapabaskog ang seguridad sang publiko.
Dugang pa niya nga kun may isa ka indibidwal nga may plano nga magbuhat sang malain kinahanglan nga duwa ka screening ang agyan sini agud mangin gamay ang tsansa sini nga makahimo sang bisan ano nga malain nga plano antes pa makalab-ot sa pinakahulihi nga screening.
Suno pa sa iya nga naga-akomodar na ang Iloilo International Airport sang madamo nga mga international flights kag kinahanglan nga na-preparar na ang mga pasilidad nga kinahanglanon agud nga mangin matalunsay ang pag-proseso sang mga pasahero sa ila pagbyahe.
P300-M nga utangon sang syudad, magakadto sa expansion sang ICCC
Ginpaathag sang Iloilo City Government nga prayoridad ang edukasyon sa P300-million nga utangon sang syudad halin sa Development Bank of the Philippines.
Ini ang i-pain para sa expansion sang Iloilo City Community College (ICCC) nga ginaplano nga tukuron sa Barangay Concepcion-Montes, Fort San Pedro, City Proper.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, ang spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga paagi sa pagpasangkad sang amo nga eskwelahan, mabuksan ang ganhaan para sa mg pigado apang deserving nga mga Ilonggo nga makapadayon sa pag-eskwela.
Igatanyag man suno sa iya ang in-demand nga mga programa kaangay sang Information Technology, Hotel and Restaurant Management, kag iban pa nga mga programa kun sa diin madamo nga trabaho ang nagahulat.
“The expansion of ICCC at Fort San Pedro will open doors to more indigent but deserving Ilonggo students diri sa aton syudad – nga isa guid sa aton priorities – ang edukasyon,” kabahin sang post sang alkalde.
“Ini nga proyekto amo gid ang rason kun ngaa mapadayon naton ang libre nga tuition kag miscellaneous fees para sa aton mga pigado apang deserving nga estudyante.
Kun wala ini, madamo sa ila ang wala na sang iban pa nga pilian – kundi mauntat nalang sa pag-eskwela,” dugang sini.
Ginpatpat man sini ang paga-ubrahon sa ginaduso nga expansion sang ICCC.
Ini nagalakip sang site development; duha units sang tatlo ka panalgan nga building nga may 12 ka classrooms; kag isa ka unit sang apat ka panalgan nga building nga may walo ka classroom.
Gamiton man ang pondo para sa dalan kag parking spaces sa sulod sang campus; drainage system; pader; kag gymnasium nga may 1,000 nga seating capacity kun ilakip na pati ang court.
Nahibaluan nga kun maaprubahan ang utang, ini ang mangin una nga loan sa idalom sang administrasyon ni Mayor Raisa Treñas.
Sang Myerkules, naghatag sang awtoridad ang Iloilo City Council sa alkalde agud nga mapirmahan ang amo nga loan agreement.#
Dalaga sa Calinog, Iloilo, ginahasa at pinatay ng kanyang tiyuhin
Nakumpirma sa imbestigasyon ng pulisya na ginahasa at pinatay ang isang dalaga sa Barangay Owak, Calinog, Iloilo na una umanong inakalang nagpakamatay.
Ang biktima ay 18 taong gulang, habang ang suspek ay mismong tiyuhin niya na 27 taong gulang.
Ang suspek ay residente ng naturang lugar at ikalawang pinsan ng ina ng biktima.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Myles Dieron, hepe ng Calinog Municipal Police Station, sinabi niyang nakatanggap sila ng tawag mula sa isang ospital dahil may dinalang pasyente na umano’y nagpakamatay.
Sa isinagawang imbestigasyon, natuklasan na sinakal ang biktima na siyang naging sanhi ng kanyang pagkamatay.
Sinugatan din ng suspek ang pulso ng biktima upang iligaw ang imbestigasyon ng pulisya at magmukhang walang foul play.
Nang lumabas ang resulta ng autopsy, doon na at biglang nawla angtiyuhin na sa panahong iyon ay itinuturing na palang person of interest sa krimen.
Kalaunan, sumuko ang suspek sa pulisya at inamin ang krimeng nagawa.
Inihahanda na ang kasong rape with homicide laban sa kanya.
Mayroon na ring dating rekord ang suspek sa pulisya dahil sa paglabag sa Republic Act 9262 o Anti-Violence Against Women and Their Children Act of 2004 noong Agosto 2025.
Isa ka biktima sang Motornapping sa Tagbak Terminal, Nagpabombo!
Nagpabombo ang isa ka biktima sang motornapping incident matapos nga ginkawat ang iya motor sang nagligad nga Enero 31, sa Tagbak Terminal.
Suno sa tag-iya sang motor nga si Butch Marterior, alas-7:30 sang gab-i sang natabo ang pagpangawat.
Pahayag man ni Marterior nga posible ang suspek sang motornapping incident malapit sa Land Transportation Office kag ang nagkawat sang iya motor ang isa ka lang ka persona.
Dugang pa niya nga nareport nya naman ini sa Highway Patrol Group agud nga mas mapadasig nga makit-an ang ginapanag-yahan sini nga motor.
Nagasalig man ini nga mabuligan sya sang publiko kag mga awtoridad bangud nga ginagamit nya ini sa iya nga trabaho.
Pinakadako nga planta sang nuclear power sa bilog nga kalibutan, liwat nga pagabuksan sang Japan
Liwat nga pagabuksan sang Japan ang pinakadako nga planta sang nuclear power sa bilog nga kalibutan sa masunod nga semana.
Ini matapos mapilitan nga pauntaton ang una sini nga pag-testing sa pag-restart sini halin sa una nga trahedya sa Fukushima sang tiuig 2011 bangud sa isa ka aberya sa alarm sini.
Suno kay Takeyuki Inagaki, head sang Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant nga ginapadalagan sang Tokyo Electric Power (TEPCO) ang planta kag ila paga-umpisahan ang reactor sa Pebrero 9.
Bangud sa isa ka error sa configuration sini, may ara sila sang nakit-an nga problema sa kuryente sang isa ka kable sa kuryente.
Ang ini nga power plant wala na naga-andar halin sang nag-untat ang Japan sa paggamit sang nuclear power matapos ang makusog nga linog kag tsunami nga nagdala sang meltdown sa tatlo ka reactor sang Fukushima atomic plant sang 2011.
Sa subong handom sang Japan nga buhion ang atomic energy agud mabuhinan ang pag-asa sa fossil fuels, malab-ot ang carbon neutrality sa pagalab-ot sang 2050.
Natunga naman ang opinyon sang publiko sa palibot, ginabulubanta nga 60% sang mga residente ang ini magpasugot sa pag-resart.
Samtang, 37 % naman ang nagasuporta sa survey base sa Niigata prefecture sang Setyembre.
Game 2 sa Dinagyang Cup 2026, temporaryo nga ginpauntat bangud sa tensyon
Temporaryo nga ginpauntat ang Game 2 sa Dinagyang Cup 2026 matapos ang tensyon nga natabo sa tunga sang hampang sa Mandurriao kag Iloilo City Proper.
Ginpatigayon ang match sa La Paz kagab-i, Pebrero 5.
Nag-ugat ang tensyon sa desisyon sang referee nga i-technical foul ang coach sang Mandurriao.
Rudiver Jungco, Sr., Executive Assistant for Youth and Sports sang Iloilo City Government nga yara man mismo nagalantaw sa amo nga match, iya ginpahayag nga sa pamuno pa lang sang hampang, nagareklamo na ang coach sang Mandurriao sa kada tion nga indi ini kumbinsido sa kada call sang game official.
Pila ka beses ini natabo nga ginlaragway ni Jungco nga indi maayo nga gesture.
Suno kay Jungco, sang gin-technical foul na ini, didto kag naghana ini nga mag-walkout apang wala man dalayon naka-walkout bangud yara man gihapon ini sa sulod sang court.
May players ang Mandurriao nga nagtinir suno kay Jungco kag wala man nag-upod sa coach.
Pahayag pa sini, gindesisyunan na lang nga indi pagpadayunon ang hampang ilabi na bangud tensyonado sa gihapon kag madamo ang nagalantaw.
Suno kay Jungco, ipatawag sini ang magtimbang nga bahin kag desisyunan kun san-o sila maga-resume sa Game 2.
Ginalantaw man kun ano ang sanctions nga mahimo idagdag sa coach sang Mandurriao.
Sa official statement sang Team Mandurriao nga gin-post sa Facebook, nagpangayo ini sang pasensya sa natabo nga insidente nga nagresulta sa pag-postpone sang hampang.
Ginpaathag sang team nga nagapati sila sa respeto, sportsmanship kag patas nga kumpetisyon.
Apang pahayag nila, sa nauna pa lang nga minutos sang hampang, madamo na nga tumalan-aw ang naka-obserba sang inconsistency sa mga pag-officiate.
Ginplastar nila nga pila ka beses ini natabo apang ginpalampuwas lang sa ngalan sang hampang.
May isa ka punto nga nagreklamo ang ila coach suno sa team para sa safety sang player kag sa integridad sang hampang ilabi na bangud wala gid sang may gintawag nga call ang referee.
Didto sila kag nagreklamo ang coach, apang nakibot sila suno sa ila sang gindeklarar nga “thrown out” na ang ila coach bisan nga wala pa sang technical ukon formal warning.
Kun may nahambal man nga indi maayo suno sa team, ginapangayuan nila ini sang pasensya bangud halin man ini sa responsilidad kag pag-ulikid bilang coach nga luyag nga proteksyunan ang iya player sa court.
Nangayo sila sang pasensya sa league organizers kag referees kag nagpanawagan sang patas nga desisyon kasunod sang hitabo sang nagligad nga gab-i.
Hugot naman nga ginabaton sang coach sang Team Mandurriao nga si Coach Jay Dan Delos Santos ang nangin sanction sa iya.
Suno sa iya, gin-suspend siya kag indi mahimo maka-coach sa iya team kun mag-resume na ang Game 2.
Ginplastar man sini kun ano ang nakabutang sa statement sang ila team kag ginpaathag liwat ang inconsistencies nga nakit-an sa pag-officiate.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, gin-ako niya ang iya nangin kapaltahan ilabi na sa iya gesture.
Pahayag sini, nabaton na sini kun ano man ang desisyon, madamo siya sang natun-an, kag tion na agud nga maka-move on sa amo nga hitabo.
“At the end of the day, baton ko man nga out na ko sa playing court kay bal-an ko man nga may kapaltahan ko ah,” pahayag sini.
Indi lang ako ang may natun-an kundi for sure ang mga naga-officiate man.
Salamat, kag mag-move on na ta,” dugang sini.
Coach sang Mandurriao, gin-suspend sa Game 2 matapos ang tensyon sa Dinagyang Cup 2026
Hugot nga ginbaton sang coach sang Team Mandurriao ang nangin sanction sa iya matapos ang tensyon nga natabo sa hampang batok sa Iloilo City Proper sa Dinagyang Cup 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Coach Jay Dan Delos Santos, iya ginpahayag nga gin-suspend siya kag indi mahimo maka-coach sa iya team kun mag-resume na ang Game 2.
Kun balikan, temporaryo nga ginpauntat ang hampang kagab-i bangud sa natabo nga tensyon nga nag-ugat sa desisyon sang referee nga i-technical foul si Delos Santos.
Una naman nga napakig-angutan sang Bombo Radyo si Mr.
Iya ginpahayag nga sa pamuno pa lang sang hampang, nagareklamo na ang coach sang Mandurriao sa kada tion nga indi ini kumbinsido sa kada call sang game official.
Suno kay Jungco, sang gin-technical foul na ang coach sang Mandurriao, didto kag naghana ini nga mag-walkout apang wala man dalayon naka-walkout bangud yara man gihapon ini sa sulod sang court.
Pahayag pa sini, gindesisyunan na lang nga indi pagpadayunon ang hampang ilabi na bangud tensyonado sa gihapon ang venue kag madamo pa ang nagalantaw.
Suno naman kay Delos Santos, may may mga “inconsistent” nga mga tawag sang mga game official, apang pila ka beses nila ini nga ginpabayaan lang kag ginpadayon ang game.
Pahayag pa sini, sang nakabunggo na ang ulo sang iya player kag wala gid sang call nga ginhimo ang referee, didto na kag nag-alsa siya bangud sa iya pag-ulikid sa safety sang iya player.
Sa statement sang ila team, nakibot sila suno sa ila sang gindeklarar nga “thrown out” na si Coach Delos Santos bisan nga wala pa sang technical ukon formal warning.
Sa interview subong nga gab-i, ginsulit ni Delos Santos ang iya pagpangayo sang pasensya sa alkalde, kay Jungco, sa league organizers, kag referees sa kun ano man ang iya nangin gesture nga indi maayo.
Ginklaro man sini nga wala sang pustaanay nga involved sa ila pag-representar sang Mandurriao — baliskad sa nagaguwa nga reports nga may nakataya nga kuwarta para sa hampang.
Natalana pa nga ipaguwa ang schedule kun san-o maga-resume ang Game 2.#
Red Warning, gin-isyu sa Iloilo bangud sa Bagyo Basyang
Gin-isyu ang RED WARNING subong nga gab-i sa Iloilo, Capiz, Guimaras, kag Negros Occidental.
Buot silingon, ginapaandaman ang publiko sa posible matabo nga seryoso nga pagbaha sa manubo nga mga area kag pagtiphag sang duta sa mataas nga mga lugar.
May ORANGE WARNING naman sa Aklan, Negros Oriental, kag Cebu kun sa diin may pamahog man sang pagbaha kag landslides.
Napasaka naman ang YELLOW WARNING sa pila ka parte sang Antique particular sa Anini-y, Culasi, Tobias Fornier, Libertad, Pandan, Sebaste, kag Tibiao.
Nag-landfall si Bagyo Basyang sa Bohol subong nga hapon.
weather bulletin sang PAGASA, ulihi nga nakit-an ang sentro sang bagyo sa vicinity sang Bilar, Bohol.
Dala sini ang kabaskugon sang hangin nga 55 kph malapit sa sentro kag pagmadlos nga tubtub sa 75 kph.
Nagahulag ini pa-nakatundan naaminhan-nakatundan sa kadasigon nga 20 kph.
Wala na sang lugar nga napaidalom sa Wind Signal No.
2 kasunod sang pagpanubo sang kategorya sa Tropical Depression halin anay sa Tropical Storm.
Yari naman ang iban nga mga lugar sa Signal No.
1 kun sa diin may warning lead time nga 36 oras kag may minimal tubtub minor nga pagpamahog sa kabuhi kag sa propiedad.
Lifted na ukon ginbawi na ang tanan nga warnings kaangot sa posibilidad sang storm surge.
Matandaan nga una nag-landfall si Basyang sa Bayabas, Surigao del Sur sang 11:50 kagab-i.
Sandig sa track forecast sang PAGASA, magahulag ang bagyo sa direksyon nga pa-nakatundan naaminhan-nakatundan sa bilog nga forecast period.
Maga-landfall ini sa southern portions sang Cebu kag sa Negros Oriental subong nga adlaw ukon sa buwas sa kaagahon.
Pagkatapos, magadiretso ang bagyo sa southern portion sang Panay Island ukon sa Panay Gulf.
Magaluya ang bagyo bilang isa ka low pressure area sa masunod nga 24 oras.
Rizal Palapala II, nabudlayan sa pagpa-evacuate sang ila mga residente
Naka-alerto sagihapon ang pila ka mga barangay sa siudad sang Iloilo ilabi na ang yara sa mga coastal areas matapos nga nagsulod na Bagyo Basyang sa Philippine Area of Responsibility.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Judy ‘Nonoy’ Navales sang Rizal Palapala II nga isa man ka coastal barangay, iya ginpahayag nga nagrekorida na kagab-i ang ila mga opisyales agud nga maghatag sang pahanumdom sa publiko ilabi na ang pag-evacuate kun kinahanglanon.
Suno kay Navales, mabudlay ang pagpa-evacuate sa mga pumuluyo bangud nga madamo sa mga ini amo ang nahadluk nga bayaan ang ila nga mga puluy-an rason nga nagapangduha-duha pa ang mga residente.
Pahayag pa niya nga yara sa 20 ka mga panimalay ang ginakabig nga yara sa coastal area sa barangay.
Dugang pa ni Navales nga samtang wala pa sang madamol nga ulan, mas maayo nga preparahan gid ang mga kinahanglanun inkaso kinahanglan na nga mag-evacuate.
Basyang, mahimo mabatyagan sa Iloilo Province umpisa alas singko karon sa hapon
Ginapaaligmat sang awtoridad ang publiko bangud sa ginaantisipar nga mangin epekto ni Bagyo Basyang sa probinsya sang Iloilo umpisa alas singko karon sa hapon.
Alfonso Baldonado III, manager sang Emergency Operations Center sang Iloilo Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office, ang maayo nga balita subong nga adlaw amo nga nagluya ang bagyo kag ginpanubo sang state weather bureau sa kategorya nga tropical depression halin sa tropical storm.
Sa 11:00 sa aga nga bulletin, nakasaad nga dala sang bagyo ang kabaskugon sang hangin nga 55 kph kag pagmadlos nga tubtub sa 70 kph.
Ulihi nakit-an ang sentro sang bagyo sa kadagatan sang Anda, Bohol kag nagahulag sa direksyon nga pa-nakatundan naaminhan-nakatundan sa kadasigon nga 10 kph.
Kun lantawon ang forecast track, magalabay ang sentro sang bagyo (ukon mag-landfall mismo) sa Bohol, southern Cebu, kag Negros Oriental halin karon sa hapon kag sa gab-i.
Buwas sa hapon naman ukon sa gab-i, magalabay ini malapit sa southern Panay Island.
Suno kay Baldonado, sa latest record sang talatapan, may masobra sa 600 ka mga pasahero nga na-stranded sa probinsya bangud sa malain nga tyempo partikular sa pantalan sa Dumangas kag sa Ajuy.
Magluwas diri, wala pa sang nakasulod nga report nga may apektado ukon nahalitan nga populasyon, mga dam, ukon sa sector sang agrikultura nga mahimo maangot sa bagyo.
Epektibo alas otso kaina sang aga, ginpasaka ang status sang bug-os nga probinsya sang Iloilo sa Red Alert.
Ini nagakahulugan nga ang tanan nga concerned agencies kag local government units (LGUs) ang dapat nga maghulag gilayon kag mag-implementar sang nagakaigo nga safety measures.
Kadam-an man sa LGUs sa probinsya ang nagdeklarar sang suspension sang klase subong nga adlaw agud maproteksyunan ang mga estudyante sa malain nga panahon.#
Western Visayas, nagapabilin sa Wind Signal No.
Napabilin sang Bagyo Basyang ang kabaskugon sini samtang nagahilapit na sa Caraga Region.
weather bulletin sang PAGASA, nakabutang nga ulihi nakit-an ang sentro sang bagyo sa kalayuon nga 115 km nasidlangan sang Hinatuan, Surigao del Sur.
Dala sini ang kabaskugon sang hangin nga 75 km/h malapit sa sentro kag pagmadlos nga tubtub sa 90 km/h.
Nagahulag ang bagyo sa direksyon nga pa-nakatundan naaminhan-nakatundan sa kadasigon nga 20 km/h.
Nagapabilin naman sa Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal No.
1 ang bilog nga Western Visayas ukon ang Guimaras, Iloilo, Capiz, Aklan, kag Antique.
Sa forecast track, maga-landfall ang sentro sang bagyo sa Surigao del Sur subong nga kagab-ihon ukon buwas sa kaagahon.
Matapos makatabok sa Mindanao, magatuhaw ini sa Bohol Sea buwas sa aga kag maglabay malapit —ukon mag-landfall— sa Siquijor kag sa southern portion sang Negros Oriental sa buwas sang hapon ukon sa gab-i.
Sa buwas sang gab-i ukon sa Sabado sang kaagahon, magatuhaw ini sa Sulu Sea, kag magalaslas sa northern portion sang Palawan sa Sabado sang hapon tubtub sa gab-i.
Ginalantaw nga magahina ini kag mahimo nga low pressure area sa Sabado sang hapon ukon sa gab-i.#
Suspendido ang klase sa tanan nga lebel sa pampubliko kag pribado nga mga eskwelahan sa syudad sang Iloilo buwas, Pebrero 6.
Sandig ini sa gin-anunsyo ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas subong nga gab-i agud maproteksyunan ang mga kabataan sa mangin epekto ni Bagyo Basyang.
Sa 8:00 weather bulletin sang PAGASA, nakasaad nga napasaka sa Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal No.
Ulihi nakit-an ang sentro sang bagyo sa kalayuon nga 115 km nasidlangan sang Hinatuan, Surigao del Sur.
Matapos makatabok sa Mindanao, magatuhaw ini sa Bohol Sea buwas sa aga kag maglabay malapit (ukon mag-landfall) sa Siquijor kag sa southern portion sang Negros Oriental sa buwas sang hapon ukon sa gab-i.
Ginalantaw nga magahina ini kag mahimo nga low pressure area sa Sabado sang hapon ukon sa gab-i.
CAAP, gintudlo nga malaba nga pila ang rason sa paghalin sang initial screening sa Iloilo Airport
Gintudlo sang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines nga ang malaba nga pila sang mga pasahero ang rason kun ngaa ginkakas ang initial screening sa Iloilo International Airport.
Sa ginpatigayon nga committee hearing, nagpahayag si Mr.
Arthur Parreño, Terminal Supervisor sang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) nga nakalab-ot na sa talatapan sang Department of Transportation (DOTr) nga madamo ang nagareklamo sa tuman ka laba nga pila rason nga ginpauntat ini sang nagligad nga Oktubre 10, 2025.
Gin-athag man niya nga bisan wala ang initial screening, gindugangan man ang security sa paluparan.
Ang ginpatigayon nga joint committee hearing sang 15th Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang kasunod sang nagluntad nga shooting incident sa sulod sang Iloilo International Airport sang Enero 28,2026 bangud sa pasahero nga may dala nga kutsilyo kag nagbato sa otoridad sang kumpiskahon kuntani ini.
PCG Iloilo, padayun ang preparasyon para sa Bagyo Basyang
Padayun ang preparasyon sang Philippine Coast Guard sa siudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo kasunod sang pagpamahog nga dala ni Bagyo Basyang.
Sa bahin sang Iloilo Port Terminals, nagpaguwa sang Travel Advisory ang ahensya kun sa diin ginkansela ang mga byahe sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Lakip na diri amo ang mga sea travel sa Dumangas, Ajuy, Estancia, kag Carles.
Padayun man ang pagmonitor sang PCG sa nagapadayun nga byahe sang mga fiberboats halin sa Iloilo pakadto Guimaras kag Vice Versa kun sa diin 50% capacity lang ginapasugtan.
El John Ga, Spokesperson sang PCG Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga dayun man nga iga-untat ang byahe sang mga fiberboats sa bahin sang Parola Wharf kun magbaskug ang balud sa nasambit nga area.
Dugang pa niya nga nagapatigayon man sila sang rekorida sa publiko pinaagi sa mga substations sa mga kabanwahanan sa probinsya sang Iloilo kag nagapanagtag man sang flyers ilabi na sa mga coastal areas.
CDRRMC, nagpatigayon sang pre-disaster risk assessment
Nagpatigayon na ang Iloilo City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council sang pre-disaster risk assessment sa kun ano ang mga possible scenarios sa mangin hulag sang bagyo Basyang agud nga mangin mas preparado ang siudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Darwin Papa, Head sang Disaster Response Division sang Iloilo city, iya ginpahayag nga preparado naman ang mga otoridad sa kun ano ang posible nga mga magluntad nga mga insidente.
Suno kay Papa, nag-umpisa na sa paglibot ang mga search and rescue teams ilabi na sa mga coastal barangays bangud sa possible man nga pagtaas sang balod.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa publiko nga magpreparar sang ila nga mga kinahanglanun ilabi na kun nagakadapat na nga mag-evacuate.
Produksyon sang palay sa Region 6, nagnubo sa katapusan sang 2025
Nagnubo ang produksyon sang palay sa Western Visayas sa katapusan sang 2025 suno sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), nga nagpakita sang 46.9% nga pagbuhin kumparar sa pareho nga quarter sang nagligad nga tuig.
Mas manubo man ang na-harvest sa kadutaan nga may yara lamang sang 36.8%, nga amo ang rason sang dako nga pagnubo sang produksyon.
Ang mga kabukiran naman nga nagasalig sa ulan ukon rainfed nga pagpanguma ang subong man apektado nga nagnubo sang 60.8%.
Samtang ang pagpanguma sang palay sa irigasyon ang nagnubo sang 21.2%.
Nakuha naman sang Iloilo ang may pinakadako nga produksyon sang palay sa bilog nga rehiyon.
Sa kabilugan, nagnubo ang suplay sang palay sa Western Visayas sa katapusan sang 2025, nga posible makaapekto sa presyo kag availability sini sa lokalidad.
Iloy, nagpa-bombo matapos nga napriso ang iya anak nga domestic helper
Nagpa-Bombo ang isa ka iloy matapos nga napriso ang anak sini nga domestic helper kag ginpasalig sang kapulisan sang Kuwait nga ipa-deport apang tubtob subong, wala pa ini nga macontact.
Ang domestic helper amo si Maricris Lapatero Sacatin, residente sang Poblacion, San Rafael,Iloilo, kasado kag may duha kabataan, kag 13 na ka tuig nga nagaubra sa luwas sang pungsod sa isa lang ka amo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Emellie Lapatero, iloy ni Maricris, iya ginpahayag nga ang employer sini ang nagapanag-iya sang isa ka catering services sa sulod na sang duha ka tuig apang wala ini sang nagakaigo nga permit rason nga gindakop sila sang kapulisan.
Ginpahayag nga nakaguwa ang amo sini apang nabilin sa sulod si Maricris kag ang kaupod sini nga Pinay.
Dugang pa sang natungdan nga ginkuhaan na sila sang iya amo sang abogado kag napamatbatan na sila sang korte kag nakatalana kuntani nga ipa-deport apang sang tion nga nagbisita ang iya employer, wala ginpagwa sang kapulisan si Sacatin kag gintudlo sa iban nga police station.
Ulihi nga naka-contact si Sacatin sa iya bana sang Enero 25 kag natingala ang iloy sini kun ngaa madugay ini nga wala maka-contact sa iya rason nga nagpakig-angot ang bana ni Maricris sa amo sini kag didto nalang nahibaluan ang natabo.
Dako naman ang pagkabalaka sang iya himata bangud luyag lang nila nga mahibaluan ang kahimtangan ni Maricris.
Nakapadulong naman ang mga ini sa Department of Migrant Workers (DMW) kag Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) apang padayon ini nga nagapanawagan sa gobyerno sang Pilipinas agud mapadali ang proseso nga mapapauli ini.
Councilor Duron, ginkwestyon ang BFAR kag DENR
Ginkwestyon ni Iloilo City Councilor Romel Duron ang Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) kag Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) kun paano nakakuha sang Fishpond Lease Agreement ang 60 ka ektarya nga Mangrove area sa bahin sang Brgy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Duron, iya ginpahayag nga natingala ang pila ka mga manugpangisda bangud nga gindumilian na ang mga ini sa pagsulod sa lugar sang tion nga personal ini nga nagpadulong sa amo nga area.
Dugang pa sini nga nakapangalan sa Diego Agri Aqua and Land Ventures ang nasambit nga fishpond nga may lease agreement nga may petsa nga Pebrero 28, 2025 kag may numero nga 6351, kun sa diin sakop sini ang halos 35 ka ektarya sang lugar.
Matandaan nga nagpatigayon sang imbestigasyon si Duron bangud sa alegasyon nga gin-hatagan sang pribado nga land titles ang halos 50 ka ektarya nga mangrove areas sa Iloilo Strait nga ginakabig nga protektado nga public land.
Sa karun, nagakabalaka si Duron sa halit nga posible nga matuga sini sa mga mangrove areas.
Ginpasiguro man sini nga handa siya maghimo sang tikang agud mapangapinan ang kinamatarong sang mga pumuluyo kag ang dunang manggad sa nasambit nga lugar.
Ini may kaangtanan sa Anti-Epal Policy sang gobyerno.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa bise-gobernador, iya ginpahayag nga ginasuportahan sini ang campaign sang DILG kag i-review man sini ang mga polisa sa provincial board agud mapakita ang ila suporta.
Dugang pa niya, iya man nga pagatun-an kaupod ang Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang pagpasar sang resolusyon nga nagasuporta sa Memorandum sang DILG.
Iga-review sang 15th Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang security protocols lakip na ang Inter-agency coordination mechanisms para sa seguridad sang mga pasahero sa Iloilo International Airport kasunod sang nagluntad nga shooting incident sa sulod sang paluparan sang Enero 28, 2026.
Santo sa ginpasar nga Resolution 2026-02-17, nagapanawagan ini sa Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP), Department of Transportation (DOTr), kag ang Philippine National Police Aviation Security Group (PNP-AVESGROUP) agud madiskusyonan ang nagakadapat nga tikang nga himuon sa nasambit nga insidente.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Vice Governor Nathalie Ann Debuque, Sponsor sang amo nga resolusyon, iya gin-athag nga ini ang gin-ubra nga lihok indi agud basulon ang kun sin-o man ang may sala, sa baylo ini agud tan-awon kun nasunod ang protocols kag matumod ang ‘weaknesses’ kag makahatag man sang rekomendasyon ang katapo sang provincial board.
Apisar nga yara sa idalom sang isa ka national government agency ang paluparan, suno sa Bise Gobernador nga kinamatarung sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan nga ipatuman ang legislative oversight bangud natabo ini sa sulod sang probinsya sang Iloilo.
Nangin positibo naman ang response sang mga ipatawag nga mga ahensya kag may patigayunon nga committee hearing sa bwas nga adlaw sang Huebes, Pebrero 5, 2026 nga ginpangunahan sang Committee on Transportation, Communication, and Public Utilities kun sa diin si Debuque man ang Chair, kaupod ang Committe on Public Order and Security sa pagpanguna ni 2nd Dsitrict Board Member June S.
9 ka empleyado sang Bayawan City LGU, patay matapos nahulog sa pil-as ang ila salakyan
Patay ang siyam ka mga empleyado sang City Agriculture Office-Engineering Division sa Bayawan City matapos mahulog sa pil-as ang ila ginasakyan nga mini dump truck sa Sitio Urang, Barangay Kalamtukan.
Isa sa mga napatay amo ang lalaki nga estudyante sang College of Industrial Technology (CIT) sa Negros Ori*ntal State University- Bayawan-Sta.
Catalina Campus nga assigned sa City Agriculture Office-Engineering Division bilang kabahin sang iya on-the-job training.
Naggwa sa inisyal nga imbestigasyon nga nag-deliver ang dump truck sang fuel para sa mga heavy equipment sang city government.
Sang pabalik na,nadulaan sang preno ang salakyan samtang nagapadulhog kag nahulog sa pil-as nga nagataas sang 50 ka metros.
Bangud sa impact sang pagkahulog nagkalagupi gid kag halos wasak ang salakyan.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad sa insidente.
PESO-Iloilo Province, magahatag sang Psychosocial Support sa duha ka Ilonggo Survivors sa paglugdang sang MV Trisha Kerstin 3
Nagpasalig ang Public Employment Services Office (PESO) Iloilo Province, nga magahatag sila sang Psychosocial Support sa duha ka Ilonggo Survivors sa paglugdang sang MV Trisha Kerstin 3.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Cynthia Dario, Head sang PESO Iloilo Province, iya ginpahayag nga bukas ang ila opisina para sa duha ka Ilonggo seafarers.
Suno kay Dario, referral assistance ang ila una nga mapalab-ot nga bulig, kun sa diin prayoridad ang psychosocial support pinaagi sa Provincial Social Welfare and Development Office (PSWDO).
Ginpaathag man ni Dario nga bangud ang insidente natabo sa sulod sang pungsod, indi ini sakop sang PESO–Overseas Filipinos Migration and Development Center nga para lamang sa mga Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs), Apang may yara man sang lain nga mga programa ang PESO Iloilo Province nga sarang mapalab-ot bilang bulig sa mga Ilonggo seafarers.
Ang duha ka Ilonggo survivors amo sanday Jujerick Layer, isa ka crew sang MV Trisha Kerstin 3 kag residente sang banwa sang Mina, kag si Carl Louis Balontong, 23-anyos, sang Oton, Iloilo, nga isa ka apprentice sang roll-on/roll-off (RORO) ferry vessel sang Aleson Shipping Lines.
Gina-engganyo sang PESO kag sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang mga survivor kag ang ila pamilya nga magpakig-angut sa probinsya agud matutukan ang ila kahimtangan kag mapadayon ang nagakaigo nga bulig.
”Paagi sa pag-reassign tion man ini nga magpakita sang maturity sa trabaho”-PMaj.
Ginakabig sang isa ka hepe sang kapulisan nga oportunidad sa pagpasangkad pa sang ila ihibalo kag pagpa-manggaranon sang ila eksperyensiya ang bag-o nga mga assignments nga ginhatag sa ila.
Isa na diri si Police Major Bryan Alamo, hepe sang Pototan Municipal Police Station, nga nalakip sa 46 ka mga hepe sa Region 6 nga gin-reassign.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Major Alamo, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga assignment nagahatag sang dako nga oportunidad sa ila para sila makatuon sang bag-o nga mg eksperyensya bilang isa ka opisyal.
Ginpahayag man sini nga paagi sa pag-reassign sa ila, tion man ini nga magpakita sang maturity sa ila trabaho.
Alamo nga sa kada police station nga iya ginhalinan, may yara gid sang nagkalain-lain nga personalidad kag estilo sang leadership, gani importante gid nga tun-an ang karakter sang mga tawo agud madali maka-adapt kag mangin epektibo sa pagpakig-angot sa komunidad kag sa kaupod nga kapulisan.
Dugang pa sini nga ang pinakadako nga leksyon nga iya natun-an amo nga ang kada assignment isa ka oportunidad para mangin handa sa mas mabug-at nga responsibilidad sa pagserbisyo sa mga tawo.
”Ang kada isa may kinamatarong nga makaangkon sang iya kaugalingon nga civil registry documents”-PSA officers
Ginaselebrar subong nga bulan sang Pebrero ang Civil Registration Month paagi sa ginpasar nga Presidential Decree No.
92, nga nagakilala sang dako nga papel sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) sa pagproseso sang mga civil registry documents.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kanday William Jaro, Chief administrative officer sang Philippine Statistics Authority Region 6 kag Jared Barile, Registration Officer III, ila ginpakigbahin ang importansya sang pag-proseso sang kaangay sini nga mga dokumento.
Suno pa sa ila nga ang Civil Registration Month nagapahanumdum sa publiko kun ano ka importante ang legal nga mga dokumento kaangay sang birth certificate, marriage certificate, kag death certificate, bangud ini amo ang nagapamatuod sang kinamatarong kag identidad sang isa ka tawo.
Dugang pa nila ang kada isa may kinamatarong nga makaangkon sang iya kaugalingon nga civil registry documents, bangud ini amo ang ginhalinan sang nagkalain-lain nga benepisyo kag serbisyo sang gobyerno, kaangay sang edukasyon, trabaho, health services, social protection, kag iban pa.
Ang ini nga mga datos ginahimo nga basehan sang gobyerno sa pagplano sang mga programa, paghatag sang serbisyo, kag paghimakas sang mga polisiya nga nagabase sa kahimtangan sang populasyon.
Para mas mapabaskog ang civil registration sa pungsod, ginpasakupan ini sang Inter-Agency Civil Registry System, nga ginalakipan sang nagkalain-lain nga ahensya sang gobyerno kaangay sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), Department of Education (DepEd), kag Department of Justice (DOJ).
Ang ini nga mga ahensya nagabulig sa pagpalapnag sang ihibalo kag paghatag sang serbisyo agud mas mangin hapos ang pagrehistro sang mga tawo
Ginapanawagan man nila sa publiko nga mangin aktibo sa pagparehistro sang ila civil events, bangud ang legal nga mga dokumento indi lamang papel kundi pundasyon sang kinamatarong, identidad, kag oportunidad sang tagsa ka Pilipino.
Early registration para sa mga estudyante, nag-umpisa na
Nag-umpisa na kahapon Enero 31 kag magalawig tubtob Pebrero 27 ang early registration para sa mga estudyante nga maga-eskwela sa mga pampubliko nga eskwelahan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Leonil T.
Salvilla, spokesperson sang DEPED Schools Division of Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga dako ang bulig sang early registration sa Department of Education (DepEd) bangud paagi sini mahibaluan nila ang numero sang mga estudyante nga maga-enroll sa masunod nga school year.
Ini ang magabulig sa pagpreparar sang nagakaigo nga learning resources para sa mga learners.
Isa man sa ginatutukan sang early registration amo ang pagsiguro nga tanan nga lima (5) ka tuig ang edad nga kabataan ma-enroll sa Kindergarten.
Paagi sini, ma-map sang DepEd ang mga kabarangayan kag kabalayan nga may yara sang kabataan nga naga-eskwela ukon wala pa kag agud mapabalik sang mga ini sa pag-eskwela.
Ginpahayag sang DepEd Iloilo nga ila handum nga kada bata nga Ilonggo mahatagan sang quality, accessible kag relevant nga edukasyon, kag ang early registration amo ang una nga tikang agud matuman ini nga katuyuan.
Samtang, ginpahayag man ni Abraham “Bam” Imas, Education Program Supervisor para sa TLE/TechVoc/TVE kag Special Needs Education, nga pwede gid makaparehistro ang mga kabataan nga may special needs, subong man ang mga kabataan nga indi pa handa ukon indi makasulod sa formal schooling.
Pwede ini palistahon sang mga ginikanan bangud ang ini nga programa inclusive kag para sa tanan.
Ginpasiguro man sini nga “no collection” kag “no payment policy” sa pagparehistro.
Samtang, suno naman kay Michelle Norico, Education Program Specialist II sang Alternative Learning System (ALS), ang ALS isa ka paglaum kag ikaduha nga kahigayunan para sa mga indibidwal nga wala nakatapos sang pag-eskwela.
Paagi sa ALS, may yara pa sang oportunidad nga makabulig agud nga makabangon kag makapadayon sa edukasyon ang isa ka tawo nga nagalaom para sa masanag nga palaabuton paagi sa training nga ila ginahatag.
Para sa mga kabataan kag indibidwal nga wala nakatapos sang pormal nga edukasyon, ginapaathag nga pwede sila maka-enroll paagi sa Alternative Learning System (ALS).
Candelaria Fiesta: Klase sa tanan nga eskwelahan sa Jaro, suspendido subong nga adlaw
Suspendido ang klase sa tanan nga lebel sa mga eskwelahan sa distrito sang Jaro, Iloilo City subong nga Lunes, Pebrero 2, kadungan sang pista ni Nuestra Señora dela Candelaria.
Kasunod ini sang pagpaguwa sang executive order si Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas sang Sabado.
Suno sa alkalde, ginrekomendar ni Retired Police Colonel Uldarico Garbanzos, head sang Traffic and Transportation Management Office, ang suspension sang klase bangud sa natalana nga pagsirado sang mga mayor nga dalanon nga pagahiwatan sang religious celebration.
Sa executive order sang alkalde, gina-engganyo man sini ang mga institusyon ukon eskwelahan sa guwa sang distrito sang Jaro nga mag-suspend man sang face-to-face classes kun maapektuhan man sila sang pagsirado sang mga dalan kag serye sang religious kag cultural events sa pista.
Lakip sa nag-anunsyo man sang suspension apisar yara sa guwa sang distrito sang Jaro amo ang:
Ginatugyan naman sang alkalde sa discretion sang mga pinuno sang government agencies kag sa mga private business owners kun maga-suspinde sila sang trabaho subong nga adlaw.#
Linibo ka mga deboto, ginalauman nga magadugok sa pista ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria
Ginalauman nga magadagsa ang linibo ka mga Ilonggo kag deboto subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 2, para sa kapistahan ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria nga amo ang patrona sang bilog nga Western Visayas.
Santo ini sa pag-estimate sang awtoridad nga subong masako sa pagpatuman sang security kag traffic measures diri sa Iloilo City.
Sa bisperas pa lamang kagab-i, madamo na sang mga deboto ang nagkadto sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral kag nagsaksi sa koronasyon sang milagroso nga imahe.
Antes ang Solemn Coronation, ginpatigayon anay ang Solemn Vesperal Mass sa katedral kun sa diin ang nag-preside amo si His Grace Most Rev.
Sa iya misa, ginpaambit ni Lazo ang dako nga bahin sang pagsabat ni Maria sa plano sang Dios.
Pahanumdom ini suno kay Lazo nga may yara sang Iloy nga amo ang nagdala sang kapawa sa tunga sang kadulom– mangin sa pamilya, katilingban, ulubrahan, pungsod, ukon sa kalibutan.
Jose Alberto Guillen, V.F., Priest-Team Moderator sang National Shrine of Our Lady of Candles kag Saint Elizabeth of Hungary Cathedral, ginpahanumdom sini nga nangin mapainubuson ang Mahal nga Iloy sang ginpakigbahin sini ang iya Anak nga amo ang Kapawa sang kalibutan.
Ini nga mga kinaiya, suno kay Guillen, ang mahimo man mailog sang mga tumuluo subong nga panahon paagi sa pagkamasinulundon sa kabubut-on sang Mahal nga Diyos kag pag-angkon sang accountability sa mga buhat.
Alas otso subong nga aga, patigayunon ang Solemn Pontifical Mass nga pangunahan ni Billones nga magamarka man sang iya una nga tuig bilang arsobispo sang Jaro.
Kadungan sini, patigayunon man ang pagbendisyon sang mga kandila.
Sadtong Pebrero 1981, matandaan nga mismo si Saint John Paul II ang nagkorona sa imahe ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria kadungan sang iya nga Apostolic visit sa Pilipinas.
Si Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria amo ang isahanon nga Marian image sa Pilipinas nga ginkoronahan sang isa ka Santo Papa nga subong isa na ka Santo.
”Ang kadalag-an nagadepende gid sa preparasyon”- Steven Jacosalem
Bata pa lang, nagpakita na sang iya tumalagsahon nga abilidad sa pagsaot ang Ilonggo Choreographer nga si Steven Jacosalemn sang Grand Slam Champion nga Tultugan Festival sa Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan 2026 kag sang Tribu Salognon nga amo naman ang nagkampeon sang Dinagyang 2026 Tribes Competition.
Sa pagpakigbahin ni Steven Jacosalem sang iya istorya sa Bombo Radyo, iya ginpahayag nga halos wala sang tuig nga nagligad nga wala ini makabaton sang award sang bata pa ini bangud sang iya talento sa pagsaot.
Nagsugod si Jacosalem bilang isa ka bulilit dancer, kag nag-participate ini sa nagkalain-lain nga kompetisyon bilang isa ka performer.
Halin sa iya pagkabata, ginpabakod sini ang iya talento asta nga nakaangkon ini sang grand slam victory paagi sa Tribu Paghidaet sadto.
Suno kay Jacosalem, bata pa lang ini ginapadala na ini sa iban nga mga lugar, kaangay sang Palawan, agud magtudlo sang pagsaot kag magpakigbahin sang iya nahibaluan sa iban.
Dugang pa ni Jacosalem, indi mahapos ang iya una nga pagsugod sini sa iya karera apang bangud sang bulig sang mga tawo nga nagapati kag nagasuporta sa iya, nangin mas mahapos ang iya pag-atubang sang mga kabudlayan nga nag-abot sa iya kabuhi.
Suno pa sa iya nga wala sang impossible sa isa ka tawo nga naga-focus sa ila mga handum bangud kun ang imo nga goal isa ka mataas dapat mo ini pangabudlayan kag tinguhaan nga maangkon.
Dako man ang iya pagpasalamat sa mga tawo nga nangin mentor sini bangud isa siya ka produkto sang ila maayo nga pagtudlo.
Ginsaysay man niya nga sang tion sang preparasyon para sa Dinagyang Festival 2026 tuman ang kabudlayan sini nga iya na-eksperyensyahan kag na-overwhelm gid ini kag maya ara pa sang tyempo nga kaangay nga nadulaan na ini sang kusog.
Nagpadulong ini sa simbahan agud mangamuyo kag liwat nga gin nanagin maayo ang Ginoo sa iya bangud pagkatapos sang duha ka adlaw nga pagpahuway kag pagpangamuyo, gin pamatian ini sang Diyos.
Suno pa sa iya, ang kadalag-an nagadepende gid sa preparasyon, kag ang pinakadaku nga fulfillment para sa ila amo ang makita nga gin-appreciate sang katawhan ang ila ginpangabudlayan.
Dugang pa niya nga indi matakos ang ila kalipay nga mabatyagan ilabi na kun sila ang palakpakan sang mga tawo nga nakasaksi sang ila sakripisyo kag kabudlayan sa kada kompetisyon nga sila kabahin.
Meliton Oso, nagpahanumdum sa mga tumuluo sa matuod nga kahulugan sang kapistahan ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria
Meliton Oso sa mga tumuluo nahanungod sa matuod nga kahulugan sang subong nga tuig nga kapistahan ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria, nga ang Mahal nga Iloy Birhen Maria isa ka Light Bearer ukon tagadala sang kapawa para sa mga tawo.
Oso, importante nga mahangpan sang tumuluo nga si Maria indi amo ang kapawa kundi si Hesus nga iya ginakungkung amo ang matuod nga kapawa sang kalibutan.
Si Maria, bilang Iloy, amo lamang ang nagadala kag natugyanan nga mangin represenstasyon ni Hesus sa pagbulig sa iya pagpalapnag sang kasanag sa sini nga kabuhi.
Ginpaathag niya nga ang debosyon kay Maria nagadala palapit kay Hesus ukon “To Jesus through Mary.”
Oso si Maria bilang matuod nga ehemplo sang stewardship ukon kaangay sang tinugyanan lamang sang kabuhi nga ginhatag sang Diyos.
Gin-emphasize man sini nga ang kabuhi sang tagsa ka tawo isa ka “breath of the Divine” kag “spark of the Divine.”
Oso isa ini ka balaan kag sagrado nga bugay nga dapat halungan kag tipigan halin pa lamang sa taguangkan sang iloy asta sa adlaw nga igalubong na ang isa ka tawo.
Oso, nagarepresentar sang matuod nga stewardship nga mangin masinulundon sa kabubut-on sang Mahal nga Diyos para may ara sang klaro nga direksyon ang kabuhi sang tagsa ka tawo.
Iloilo Provincial Government, naka-save sang masobra P6.3 million sa paggamitsang solar panel energy
Naka-save sang masobra P6.3 million ang Iloilo Provincial Government sa sulod sang isa ka tuig paagi sa paggamit sang solar panel energy sa Iloilo Provincial Capitol kag sa mga district hospital sa probinsya.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Atty.
Cesar Emanuelle Buyco, head sang Provincial Environment and Natural Resources Office (PENRO), nga nag-invest ang probinsya sang humalin P25 million para sa pag-install sang solar panels.
Suno sa iya, kabahin ini sang inisyatibo sang probinsya agud mangin mas mangin innovative kag epektibo sa paggamit sang enerhiya.
Imbes nga dako nga kantidad ang mabaydan sa mga power provider, nakakinot ang probinsya sang P6.3 million nga mahimo pa magamit sa nagkalain-lain nga proyekto sang gobyerno.
Pahayag ni Buyco, dako gid ang bulig sang solar energy ilabi na sa mga ospital, bangud kadako sang nabuhin nga balayran sa kuryente sang tagsa ka district hospital sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Suno pa kay Buyco, ang solar panel system ang ginapaabot nga magalawig sang 15 ka tuig, nga magapadayon nga magahatag benepisyo sa Iloilo Provincial Capitol kag sa mga ospital.
Gindugang pa niya nga ang mga nakinot nga pondo mahimo liwat i-reinvest sa pagbakal kag pag-install pa sang dugang nga solar panels.
Sa karon, ginaplano man sang Iloilo Provincial Government nga ipatuman ang pareho nga proyekto sa mga buluthuan, bilang kabahin sang amat-amat nga transition sa renewable energy sa probinsya.
Ini isa ka tikang nga ginakabig nga makahagan-hagan kag makabulig indi lamang sa gobyerno kundi pati na sa palibot.
Numero sang mga bangkay nga na-recover sa naglugdang nga MV Trisha Kerstin 3, nagdangat na sa 37
Nagdangat na sa 37 ang numero sang bangkay nga na-recover sa paglugdang sang MV Trisha Kerstin 3 sa baybayon nga sakop sang Basilan sang Enero 26, 2026.
Suno kay Mayor Arsina Kahing-Nanoh sang Hadji Muhtamad, sa probinsya sang Basilan, nagdugang ang 3 pagid ka mga bangkay nga na-retrieved sang mga rescuers kahapon nga adlaw.
Duha (2) sa mga bangkay nga na-recover ang lalaki kag Isa (1) ka babaye, nga gilayun naman gindala sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) padulong sa Zamboanga City.
Madumduman nga halin sa 19, nagsaka sa 37 ang kabilugan nga bangkay nga na-retrieved sang mga otoridad kag mga pumuluyo: Onse (11) sang Webes, Apat (4) sang Byernes kag Tatlo (3) kahapon nga adlaw sang Sabado.
Sa 37 ka mga bangkay, Apat (4) sa mga ini ang unidentified ukon wala pa makilal-an.
Klase sa tanan nga eskwelahan sa Jaro, suspendido sa Lunes kadungan sang Candelaria Fiesta
Nagpaguwa sang executive order si Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas nga nagasuspinde sang klase sa tanan nga lebel sa mga eskwelahan sa distrito sang Jaro sa Lunes, Pebrero 2.
Kadungan ini sang Jaro fiesta ukon ang kapistahan ni Nuestra Señora dela Candelaria nga amo ang patrona sang Western Visayas.
Kinaandan nga nagadugok ang linibo nga mga deboto halin sa Rehiyon 6 kag sa iban pa nga mga lugar kadungan sini nga kapistahan.
“Bangud sang ginaasahan nga pagtaas sa foot traffic, traffic congestion, kag road closures kadungan sang Feast of the Lady of Candles, gin suspend ni Mayor Raisa Treñas ang face-to-face classes sa tanan nga lebel, sa tanan nga eskwelahan sa Distrito sang Jaro, Iloilo City sa Pebrero 2, 2026,” suno sa post ni Mayor Treñas.
Ginatugyan naman sang alkalde sa discretion sang mga pinuno sang government agencies kag sa mga private business owners kun maga-suspinde sila sang trabaho sa amo nga adlaw.
Ni-relieve sa pwesto ang 46 na hepe sa Western Visayas kabilang ang lima mula sa Lungsod ng Iloilo.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Lailyn Sencil, tagapagsalita ng Police Regional Office VI, sinabi niya na ang reassignment na ito ay bahagi ng regular na prosesong administratibo o rotation ng mga commander na nakapagsilbi na ng isa hanggang dalawang taon o higit pa bilang hepe.
Aniya, ito ay pinag-usapan at isinailalim sa proseso ng Second Level Officers Placement Board upang matiyak ang transparency, objectivity, at mahigpit na pagsunod sa umiiral na mga patakaran at alituntunin ng PNP.
Nilinaw ng opisina na ito ay karaniwang ginagawa ng PNP at walang sangkot na kaparusahan.
Hindi pa tinukoy kung saan itatalaga ang mga inireliebo na hepe, ngunit ayon kay Sencil, may ilan na ia-assign sa regional headquarters.
Apat ka mga indibidwal nga na-involve sa rambol sa Bolilao, napasakaan na sang reklamo nga Alarm and Scandal
Napuhag ang mga pumuluyo sang Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City matapos ang rambol nga natabo pasado alas-singko kaina sang aga.
Ini ginkaulamiran sang duwa ka grupo nga nagrambolanay kag naglinamposanay pa sang botilya.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Val Cambel, hepe sang Police Station 10, iya ginpahayag nga base sa ila imbestigasyon may ara sang indi pag-intindihanay ang duwa ka grupo kag yara ang mga ini sa impluwensiya sang makahulubog nga ilimnon.
Suno pa sa iya, gina-alegar nga nasalapay sang isa ka grupo ang pihak nga side rason nga nagsugod ang ila paglainanay sang buot.
Apat ka indibidwal ang napasakaan sang kaso nga alarm and scandal, apang may ara man sang wala nadakpan bangud sa madasig nga pagpalagyo sang iban nga nadala.
Tag-duha ka indibidwal sa tagsa ka grupo ang ginpasakaan sang kaso.
Dugang pa ni Cambel, gina-imbestigaran pa ang iban nga detalye sang insidente.
Samtang suno naman sa isa ka pumuluyo nga si alyas Jun nga nakasaksi mismo sang rambol, updanay nga nag-inom ang mga nagrambolanay apang separado ang ila mga lamesa kag indi man ang mga ini personal nga magkilalahay.
Iya ginpahayag nga nag-umpisa ang ila pag-inaway matapos madula ang cellphone sang isa ka upod sang grupo kag ginpasibangdan nila nga gin-kuha sang pihak nga grupo.
Bangud sini, ginrikisa ang mga bulsa sang pihak nga grupo agud pangitaon ang nasambit nga cellphone.
Gilayon naman nga naimpito ang pihak nga grupo nga suno sa ila indi man ang mga ini pulis apang ngaa nga ginrikisahan sila sang nasambit nga grupo.
Ginkumpirma sang Iloilo City Police Office ang pagpasaka sang reklamo nga Alarm and Scandal sa Iloilo City Prosecutor’s Office batok sa apat ka mga indibidwal nga na-involve sa rambol sa Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Suno kay Police Major Shella Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang Iloilo City Police Office, natigayon nga pasakaan ang apat ka indibidwal subong nga adlaw, Enero 31.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, ginhingadlan ang pila ka mga nadala nga sanday alyas “Jan,” 23 anyos, isa ka food handler kag pumuluyo sang Brgy.
Poblacion, San Dionisio; “Philip,” 26 anyos, isa ka waiter kag pumuluyo sang Brgy.
Calumpang, Molo; dugang pa diri nadala an si“JP,” 21 anyos, isa ka waiter kag pumuluyo sang Brgy.
Banban, Lambunao, Iloilo; kag “Rey,” 18 anyos, estudyante, pumuluyo sang Brgy.
Sila ang nadakpan sang mga personnel sang Iloilo City Police Station 5 (ICPS5) nga nagpatigayon sang mobile patrol kag roving operations sang amo nga tion.
Ginpahayag man sang ICPO ang ila panawagan sa publiko nga mangin responsable kag ila padayon nga pagapabaskugon pa gid ang presensya kag patrol sang kapulisan agud malikawan ang kaangay nga mga insidente sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Klase sa tanan nga lebel sa mga eskwelahan sa distrito sang Jaro, suspendido sa Lunes kadungan sang pista ni Nuestra Señora dela Candelaria
Nagdesisyon man ang iban nga mga buluthuan sa distrito sang La Paz, Iloilo City nga i-suspinde man ang ila klase bangud sa ginaekspektar nga pagpugok sa trapiko kag kabudlayan sa transportasyon kadungan ang Jaro Fiesta sa Lunes, Pebrero 2.
Lakip sa nag-anunsyo sang suspension amo ang West Visayas State University (WVSU), Iloilo Science and Technology University (ISAT U) kag Hua Siong College of Iloilo sa tanan nga lebel.
Ginpili na lang sang pila ka eskwelahan ang pagpatigayon sang klase paagi sa asynchronous online mode.
Heinz Gumaquil, Public Information Officer sang ISAT U, iya ginpahayag nga ila na lang ginpili ang pag-shift sa online classes agud indi mabudlayan ang ila mga estudyante sa pag-commute.
Dugang pa niya, maga-resume gilayon ang regular nga klase sang ISAT U sa Pebrero 3 pagkatapos mismo sang kapistahan.
Nagpangabay man ang administrasyon sa mga estudyante sa ila paghangop sa ginpatuman nga tikang para sa convenience sang tanan.
Ordinansa nga may tuyo nga maghatag sang importansya sa West PH Sea, pasado na
Pasado na sa Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang ordinansa nga ginduso ni Board Member Rolando Distura nga may tinutuyo nga mas mapasangkad ang pagpa-intindi sa publiko sa mga impormasyon nahanungod sa West Philippine Sea.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Distura, iya ginpahayag nga ginpatigayon nila ang ordinansa matapos nga wala ginasunod sang iban nga pungsod ang rulings sang international court kag ang historical background bisan pa nga nagdaug ang Pilipinas sa article ruling.
Isa man ini ka tikang agud nga ma-incorporate ang historical context sang West Philippine Sea kag 2016 arbitral ruling sa idalom sang United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) nga igatudlo sa mga studyante.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa iya kaupod nga si Board Member Gonzales nga amo ang Chairperson sang Committe on Education kaupod ang iban pa nga mga Sangguniang Panlalawigan members nga nagsuporta sa ordinansa.
Kasunod sini, mangin West Philippine Sea Day sa Iloilo ang 2nd Wednesday sang Setyembre kada tuig nga nagasanto man sa Maritime National Month.
Mass promotion sang DepEd, madamo ang indi mayo nga epekto
Madamo ang indi maayo nga epekto sang Mass Promotion nga ginapatuman sa mga buluthuan sa Pilipinas.
JM Benavidez Estoque, Founder sang Philippine Social Conservative Movement, iya ginpahayag nga ang mass promotion amo ang ginapatuman sang Department of education nga ‘no child is left behind’ bisan pa nga may bagsak ang isa ka studyante sa isa ka subject.
Pahayag niya, sa ginpatigayon nga pag-panalawsaw sang Philippine Business for education, may ara sang mga studyante nga ara na sa college level apang indi kabalo mag ubra sang simple essay
Ila naman nga ginakalipay ang gina-ubra nga tikang sang gobyerno agud nga mauntat na ang Mass promotion kag papasaron lamang ang mga studyante nga makarasang sa masunod nga grade level.
Suno kay Estoque, nagapati sila nga madamo ang malain sini nga epekto indi lang sa mga studyante kundi amo man sa bilog nga pungsod ilabi na sa pagtubang sang mga ini sa realidad matapos ang ila nga pag-eskwela.
Iloilo City, opisyal na nga nabaton ang panibag-o nga ASEAN Clean Tourist City Award
Ini na ang ikaduha nga tion nga nakuha sang Iloilo City ang amo nga pagkilala bangud sa pinasahi nga kalimpyo, environmental management, kag tourism infrastructure.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ravena, iya ginpahayag nga may ginpadala nga validation kag on-site inspection sa syudad kag may nag-check man sang mga feedback sang mga turista sa katinlo sang lugar.
Una nga nabaton sang Iloilo City ang amo man nga award sang 2020–2022 term.
Sang amo nga tion, ginpatigayon ang awarding ceremony sa Brunei kasunod sang mga inspeksyon sa public spaces, traffic management systems, kag environmental policies.
Sa mensahe naman ni Mayor Treñas, ginpalab-ot sini ang iya pagpanginbulahan sa tanan nga mga Ilonggo nga committed para sa pagpabilin sang katahum kag kalimpyo sang palibot.
“Ini nga dungog nagapakita sang padayon nga commitment sang Iloilo City Government sa pag-maintain sang kalimpyo, katahum, kag sustainable nga turismo sa syudad sang Iloilo,” kabahin sang mensahe sang alkalde.
Nahibaluan nga ini nga pagkilala ang kabahin sang ASEAN Tourism Standards Awards program nga nagapasidungog sang mga syudad sa Southeast Asia nga malimpyo, may maayo nga waste management, environmental protection kag tourism facilities.#
Committee hearing sa separado nga FOI proposals sa Iloilo City Council, nagtakop na
Gintugyan na sa chairperson sang Committee on Communication and Public Information sa Iloilo City Council kun ano ang mangin desisyon sini kaangot sa wala pa na-reconcile nga mga probisyon sa duha ka ordinansa nga ginduso kaangot sa Freedom of Information (FOI).
Ini matapos nga nagtakop na ang ginpatigayon nga committee hearing agud nga maplastar ang halos pareho lang nga ordinansa nga ginduso nanday Councilor Nene Dela Llana kag Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Dela Llana, iya ginpahayag nga kun makahimo na sang committee report ang committee chairperson nga si Councilor Atty.
Sedfrey Cabaluna, maga-debate na sila ni Mabilog sa sesyon sang konseho.
Pahayag pa ni Dela Llana, duha ka beses nga gin-amyendaran ni Mabilog ang iya nga ginaproponer nga ordinansa, gani nga pag-abot sa committee hearing, halos pareho na sila kag wala na sila ginbudlayan pa.
Lakip sa gintumod sini nga kinalain sa ila nga ordinansa amo ang iya ginaduso nga FOI desk agud nga mas plastado kag dira na magkadto ang mga pumuluyo kag magpamangkot kaangot sa ila kinahanglan nga impormasyon.
Ginaduso man ni Dela Llana nga regular employee ang mangin head sang FOI desk bangud sensitibo ang mga impormasyon nga uyatan sini, kag agud nga may salabton man ini pananglitan may mga sala.
Everybody wins, tanan daog,” pahayag sang konsehal.
“I will leave it to his sound judgment kag sa wisdom niya [ni Councilor Cabaluna], kag once nga ibalik ya sa amon, we will debate,” dugang pa ni Dela Llana.
Matandaan nga sang Nobyembre 27, 2025 sang una nga ginpatigayon ang hearing agud diskusyunan ang duha ka magkatuhay nga ordinansa sang duha ka nasambit nga konsehal.
Pag-subsidize sang rental fees para sa stalls sa Dinagyang food fest 2027, tun-an sang konseho
Pangitaan sang paagi sang Iloilo City Council kun paano ma-subsidize ang rental fee para sa mga kiosko kadungan sang Dinagyang Food Festival sa masunod nga tuig.
Kabahin ini sang posible nga adjustments nga himuon kasunod sang mga feedback sang festivalgoers subong nga tuig nga mahal ang renta sang mga manugbaligya gani nga mahal man ang presyo sang mga baligya.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Majority Floor Leader Rex Marcus Sarabia, iya ginpahayag nga posible nga sabton sang syudad ang katunga ukon porsyon sang operating expenses.
“Lantawon ta kun ano ang maayo ah,” suno kay Sarabia.
Nahibaluan nga sa apat ka adlaw nga Dinagyang Food Festival, ginabanta 270 ka stalls ang ginplastar nga nagaunod sang food kag non-food items.
Nagbayad ang mga manugbaligya sang tag-P18,000 para sa renta.
Sandig naman sa mga tag-iya sang mga kiosko, bangud mataas ang ila renta, nagpasaka man sila sang presyo sang mga produkto.
Una naman nga ginpahayag sang Iloilo Festivals Foundation, Inc.
(IFFI) nga ginatun-an man ang posible nga pagbuhin sang rental fee sa food kiosks lakip na ang nasambit nga subsidies nga posible nga sabton sang Iloilo City Government.
Sa nauna nga pahayag ni IFFI chairman Judgee Peña, nakasaad nga nagsaka ang rental fees sa mga kiosko sang ginabanta P1,000 subong nga tuig bangud sa limitado lamang nga numero sang stalls nga ginpasugtan agud nga wala sang pagginutok, makalabay ang pedestrians, kag mapabilin nga maayo ang crowd control sa nagapanguna nga festival areas.#
Pag-regulate sa pagpanukot sang mga establisyemento sa mga nagagamit sang restroom kadungan sang Dinagyang, posible iduso sa City Council
Posible nga iduso ang ordinansa sa Iloilo City Council agud nga ma-untat ang ginahimo sang iban nga establisyemento nga nagapabayad para nga magpagamit sang restroom kadungan sang Dinagyang Festival.
Ini kasunod sang mga reklamo nga nabaton halin sa festivalgoers kadungan sang selebrasyon subong nga tuig.
Sandig sa reports, may iban man nga establisyemento nga nagapangita sang resibo sa mga kustomer antes sila pasugtan nga makagamit sang restroom.
Suno kay Majority Floor Leader Rex Marcus Sarabia, na-turn off gid siya kasunod sang amo nga mga report.
Duha ka adlaw ang major highlights sa Dinagyang suno sa iya nga nagatib-ong man sang turismo sang syudad.
Dapat suno sa iya nga mag-contribute man ang business establishments.
“Burden ni ya, kag you know, tanan man kita nga mga pumulyo naga-sacrifice sa pag-host sang world-class nga event — from traffic to added nga mga concerns.
Ang mga pumuluyo gagasto gani para mag-successful ang aton nga celebration, [while] ang mga negosyo nagaginansya, gaabtik ang ila sales,” suno kay Sarabia.
Pahayag pa sini, indi man daku nga gasto ang tubig kag habon para ma-akomodar ang mga bisita sa syudad.
“I don’t think it is proper,” pahayag pa sini nga nagatumod sa mga nagasukot sang resibo kag bayad antes maka-usar ang mga tawo sang CR.
Ginpahanumdom sini nga duha ka adlaw lang ang selebrasyon sa Dinagyang, kag makapagusto naman ang mga negosyante sa nabilin nga mga inadlaw sa sulod sang isa ka tuig.
Matandaan nga una na nag-post ang konsehal nga nagapanawagan sa mga tag-iya sang negosyo sa syudad nga likawan ang amo nga practice bangud makahuluya ini kag nagaguba sang imahe sang syudad sa patag sang turismo ilabi na bangud nagadagsa ang mga turista sa kada ginaselebrar ang Dinagyang.#
Archbishop Billones, pangunahan ang misa sa pista ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria
Nagapangagda ang Archdiocese of Jaro sa pag-upod sa Solemn Pontifical Mass sa Lunes, Pebrero 2, alas otso sa aga, kadungan sang kapistahan ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria, ang patrona sang Western Visayas.
Espesyal man ini nga adlaw bangud ini ang una nga anibersaryo sang pag-appoint kay Billones bilang ika-pito nga arsobispo kag ika-14 nga Prelate sang Archdiocese of Jaro.
Ginaselebrar sang mga Ilonggo ang pista ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria sa kada Pebrero 2.
Nakasentro sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral ang kalabanan sa mga aktibidad kag kinaandan nga ginadugukan sang linibu-libo nga mga deboto halin sa Western Visayas kag mangin sa iban nga mga rehiyon.#
5 station commanders sa Iloilo City, lakip sa 46 ka mga hepe sa W.
Nalakip ang lima ka mga hepe sa syudad sang Iloilo sa 46 ka mga station commander sa Western Visayas nga gin-relieve epektibo subong nga adlaw, Enero 30.
Sandig sa Issuance of Orders for Reassignment kag Resolution 2026-01 sang nagligad Enero 27, 2026, nalakip sa lista ang mga masunod:
Magluwas sa lima halin sa Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO), may 11 naman nga gikan sa Antique Police Provincial Office (PPO), anum ang halin sa Aklan PPO, 10 ang halin sa Capiz PPO, isa sa Guimaras PPO, kag 13 ang halin sa Iloilo PPO.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Lailyn Sencil, spokesperson sang Police Regional Office (PRO) VI, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga reassignment ang kabahin sang regular administrative process ukon ang rotation sang commanders nga nakaserbe na sang isa tubtub duha ka tuig ukon mas malawig pa bilang hepe.
Gin-deliberate kag ginproseso ini suno sa iya paagi sa Second Level Officers Placement Board agud masigurado ang transparency, objectivity, kag istrikto nga pagsunod sa existing nga mga patakaran kag guidelines sang PNP.
Ang pag-relieve kag pag-reassign sa ila ang nakasandig sa naka-establisar nga criteria suno sa PNP nga nagalakip sang kadugayon sang pagtinir sa posisyon sini subong, cumulative tenure of duty sang at least anum ka tuig, kag merit- kag performance-based nga mga konsiderasyon.
Ginklaro PRO VI opisina nga kinaandan ini nga ginahimo sang PNP kag wala sang na-involve nga kapaltahan.
Wala pa ginpatpat kun sa diin ma-assign ang ginpang-relieve nga mga hepe, apang sandig sa inisyal nga pahayag sang opisina, may yara sang iga-assign sa regional headquarters.#
ICPO, liwat nga ginkilala bilang ‘Best City Police Office’ sa PNP DAY 2026
Liwat nga ginkilala bilang ‘Best City Police Office’ ang Iloilo City Police Office sa PNP DAY 2026 nga ginhiwat sa PNP Multi-Purpose Center sa Camp Crame, Quezon City.
Ini ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga nakuha sang ICPO ang nasambit nga award.
Sa mensahe ni PCol Parilla, iya ginapalab-ot ang pagpasalamat kay former ICPO Director PCol Legada, sa tanan nga ICPO personnel, sa supporta nga ginhatag sang Iloilo City Government, kag sa koordinasyon man sang mga Ilonggo.
Ini nga kadalag-an indi lang para sa ICPO kundi pati man sa bug-os nga syudad sang Iloilo.
Shella Mae Sangrines, Spokesperson sang Iloilo City Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga ila gid nga ginakalipay ang nabatun nga award.
Suno man sa iya, ang mga sunod-sunod nga nabatun nila nga mga kadalag-an amo ang isa ka challenge para sa mga katapo sang kapulisan kag inspirasyon agud nga mas mangin maayo pagid ang ila nga performace.
Pamilya sang Ilonggo survivor sa naglugdang nga RoRo vessel sa Basilan, dismayado sa shipping company
Dismayado ang pamilya sang Ilonggo seafarer nga si Jujerick Layer bangud sa ginaalegar nila nga kulang ang koordinasyon sang shipping company sa ila nga pamilya kag sa mga survivors sang naglugdang nga RoRo Vessel sa baybayon sang Basilan.
Si Layer amo ang residente sang Barangay Tipolo, Mina, Iloilo, kag isa man sa duha ka mga Ilonggo survivors sa nasambit nga insidente.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jose Pendioday, Lolo ni Layer, iya ginpahayag nga ang ila pamilya nalang ang maga-gasto para sa pagpa-uli sang iya nga apo.
Suno pa kay Pendioday, wala gid maghatag sang update ang Aleson Shipping Lines, Inc.
nga amo ang nagapanag-iya sang MV Trisha Kerstin 3 kun ano ang mabulig sang kumpaniya sa ila himata kag sa iban pa nga mga survivors.
Samtang nagpguwa naman sang offcial statement ang Aleson Shipping Lines Inc., kun sa diin nagapagkig-unong man ini sa mga pamilya sang mga nagtaliwan nga mga pasahero.
Nagpahayag man ang kumpaniya nga ila naman nga ginatinguha-an nga iproseso ang igahatag nga financial assistance sa tanan nga mga apektado kag biktima sang insidente.
Security Personnel, naka-standby na para sa nagahilapit nga pista sang Jaro
Preparado kag naka-standby na ang mga security personnel sa pagbantay sa nagahilapit nga pista ni Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria nga amo ang patrona sang Western Visayas.
Shella Mae Sangrines, Spokesperson sang Iloilo City Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga magluwas sa duha ka Police station sa distrito sang Jaro, maga-deploy man ang Iloilo City Police halin sa mobile patrol units, Iloilo City Mobile Force Company kag SWAT Personnel.
Suno man sa iya, hugot man nga pagabantayan ang Jaro Plaza bangud sa masami nga nagakalatabo diri sa mga dalagko nga mga aktibidad.
Nagalaum man ini nga magabuligay ang mga Ilonggo sa pagselebrar sang pista agud nga liwat nga mag zero incident ang siudad kaangay sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo radio kay PMaj.
Eduardo Siacon Jr., Officer-in-charge sang Iloilo City Police Station 9, iya ginpahayag nga magabutang sila sang apat ka mga screening areas sa palibot sang Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral agud nga indi makasulod ang mga deadly weapons, vape, sigarilyo, kag mga makahulubog nga mga ilimnon.
Nagpahayag man ini sa mga may plano nga mag inom-inom sa kapistahan nga mangin responsable sa ila pag-inom agud nga malikawan ang kun ano man nga ginamo.
Mga isyu sa sugar industry, prayoridad sang Marcos admin —Recto
Ginpasalig ni Executive Secretary Ralph Recto nga nalakip ang industriya sang tubo sa mga prayoridad sang Marcos administration.
Suno pa sa iya, iga-repaso man ang mga isyu sa kalamay kag ipasaka ini sa nagakaigo nga mga ahensya para sa konsiderasyon sa polisa.
Lakip ini sa mga pasalig nga iya ginbuy-an kadungan sang meeting kay Senator Kiko Pangilinan, ang chairman sang Committee on Agriculture, Food, and Agrarian Reform sa Senado.
Natabo ang meeting matapos ang public consultation sa Talisay City, Negros Occidental sang nagligad nga semana.
Matandaan nga yara si Pangilinan kag ang chairman sang Committee on Agriculture sa Kamara nga nag-atubang man sa sugar planters kag nagpamati sa ila nga mga hibubun-ot, problema, kag mga kahangawa sa multi-billion-peso industry.
Ginpalab-ot naman ni Pangilinan kay Recto ini nga mga problema kaangay sang mataas nga gasto sa produksyon, naganubo nga income sa pagpanguma, supply volatility, kag ang long-term impact sang importation policies sa local producers.
Ang ginpatigayon nga congressional inquiry ang nag-ugat sa mga separado nga resolusyon sa Kamara nga nagahingyo nga malantaw ang pagsarurot sang mill-gate prices sang kalamay kag molasses kag ang epekto sini sa sugar producers, mangunguma, kag ila mga trabahador.
Sa amo nga public consultation, ginpahayag ni Pangilinan nga kaangay sa kun paano nila ginsolusyonan sadto ang problema sa bugas, hatagan man nila sang solusyon ang problema sa kalamay.
Antes sini, may protesta man ang Jalasig Sugar Planters Association sa syudad sang Passi.
Ginapanawagan nila ang pag-akto sang gobyerno sa tunga sang tuman ka nubo nga farm-gate prices kasunod sang pagpanglakaak sang pag-import sang kalamay kag kapalpakan sang SRA nga ma-regulate ang merkado.#
GSO, ginklaro nga indi iya sang Iloilo City Government ang mga portalet nga naga-require sang bayad sang Dinagyang
Ginklaro sang General Services Office (GSO) nga indi iya sang Iloilo City Government ang mga portalet nga naga-require sang bayad sa tion sang Dinagyang Festival.
Niel Ravena, head sang nasambit nga opisina, iya ginpahayag nga wala sang bayad ang tanan nga mga ginapanag-iyahan nga portalet sang siyudad.
Suno kay Ravena, ang mga naglapata nga laragway sang amo nga portalet ang yara nahamtang sa Iloilo City Center ukon Gaisano ICC kun sa diin napanag-iyahan ini sang pribado nga organisasyon kag indi sang siyudad.
Madumduman nga may mga kahiwatan man nga natabo sa nasambit nga lugar kaangay sang concert nga possible diri ini gingamit.
Wala man sang ideya si Ravena kun paano ini gin-regulate sa tion sang Dinagyang Festival.
Matapos nga naglapta ang mga laragway, gilayon man nga ginpamutangan sang GSO ang ila 80 ka mga portalets sang signage nga nagasiling nga libre ang pagamit sang mga ini.
Oso, pabor sa ginaduso nga Coastal and Floating Solar Initiative
Meliton Oso Director, Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center (JASAC), iya ginpahayag nga pabor siya sa nasambit nga proyekto bangud nga isa ini ka sustainable and renewable solar energy kun sa diin sa makadali nga tion posible na nga ma-untat ang paggamit sang mga fossil fuel power station kag mabuhinan ang mga polusyon nga nagatuga sang halit sa palibot.
Oso, isa pa gid nga rason nga pabor siya bangud sa bahin sang ekonomiya, mapanubo ang gasto sang mga kunsumidor sa kuryente.
Ini kasunod sa ginpahayag sang ahensya sang Infrastructure Development Committee – Regional Development Council (RDC) Region 6 nga isa sa mga tinutuyo nga matabo kun mapatindog ang proyekto amo ang pagpanubo sang presyo sang kuryente.
Pahayag pa niya, dapat nga hatagan man sang atensyon ang mga pumuluyo sa coastal areas ilabi na ang nga marginalized fisherfolk kun sa diin indi dapat ang mga ini maapektuhan ang ila nga pangabuhian.
CAAP-Iloilo, plano ibalik ang first screening area sa Iloilo Airport kasunod sang shooting incident
Ginakonsiderar subong sang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP)–Iloilo ang pagpatuman liwat sang first screening sa ground floor sang Iloilo International Airport.
Kasunod ini sang shooting incident sa second floor sang airport matapos nga nagbato ang isa ka pasahero sang na-detect nga may dala ini nga kutsilyo samtang yara sa boarding area.
Bilang resulta, naigo ang lalaki sa dughan.
Ini amo si Roland Lañojan, 54 anyos, isa ka security guard, kag residente sang Tayong, Sagay, Camiguin.
Arthur Parreño, Public Information Officer sang CAAP-Iloilo, ang pagbalik sang first screening amo ang ginalantaw nga solusyon para indi na masulit ang kaangay nga insidente.
Sa subong, suno sa iya, wala pa sila nakadihon sang nagakaigo nga rekomendasyon.
Bilang temporaryo nga solusyon, mas hugtan anay ang seguridad paagi sa pagdugang sang security personnel kaupod na ang mga katapo sang PNP.
Wala naman sini gin-ako ukon ginpanginwala nga may lapses sa security protocol rason kun ngaa nakalusot ang nasambit nga pasahero.
Samtang, wala pa sang bastante nga impormasyon nga nakuha ang otoridad sa lalaki nga natiruhan.
Bayani Razalan, director sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office, wala nagakooperar si Lañojan sa ila kag wala nagasabat sa ila mga pamangkot.
Suno kay Razalan, namalibad man ang amo nga lalaki nga magsugid kun ngaa yari ini sa Iloilo kag kun diin siya nag-istar.
Nakit-an naman sa driver’s license ni Lañojan nga sa Talamban, Cebu ang iya address.
Apang sa lain nga identification card, Camiguin ang nakabutyang nga address.
Dugang ni Razalan, nagapabilin subong sa ospital ang lalaki apang hilway na sa katalagman apisar nag-angkon sang igo sa dughan malapit sa iya ilok.
Archdiocese of Jaro, nagaagda sa tanan nga deboto para sa kapiestahan ni Candelaria
Nagapang-agda gid ang Archdiocese of Jaro sa tanan nga mga deboto nga magpakigbahin sa nagahilapit nga kapiyestahan ni Nuestra Señora dela Candelaria, ang patrona sang Western Visayas, sa Pebrero 2.
May kaangtanan diri, ginpagwa na man sang Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral ang schedule sang mga misa sa National Shrine of Our Lady of Candles sa Jaro.
Sa Pebrero 1 nga bisperas sang piyesta, may Solemn Vesperal Mass sa las-5 sa hapon nga pangunahan ni His Grace, Most Rev.
Ini ang pagasundan sang Rite of Coronation of the Image sa Cathedral’s Balcony nga pangunahan naman ni His Grace Most Rev.
Sa adlaw mismo sang kapiestahan sa Pebrero 2,las-siete sa aga, may hiwaton nga Solemn Pontifical Mass kaupod ang Blessing of Candles kag pangunahan sa gihapon ni Archbishop Billones.
Hiwaton naman las 5:30 sa hapon pagkatapos sang Solemn Procession, ang Solemn Concelebrated Mass nga pangunahan ni His Excellency Most Rev.
Angelo Colada, director sang Commission on Social Communications sang Archdiocese of Jaro, iya ginpahayag nga sa subong nga tuig, wala sang pagbag-o sa dalagan sang selebrasyon.
Suno kay Colada, magapabilin gihapon nga sentro sang kapistahan ang pagpadalom pa gid sang pagtuo kag debosyon.
Gindugang man ni Colada nga available na ang perdon candles sa Libreria Candelaria, Jaro Cathedral kag iban nga affiliated retailers.
Nagpangabay naman si Colada nga indi paghingalitan ang kapiestahan nga magpamentaha sa pagbaligya sang perdon candles nga ang presyo ang yara lang sa P40 kada isa.
Target GDP sang gobyerno nga 5.5% tubtob 6.5% sa tuig 2025, naglab-ot lamang sa 4.4% suno sa PSA
Mas naghina ang gina-ekspektar nga pag-ugwad sang ekonomiya sang Pilipinas sang 2025, bangod nakalab-ot lamang ini sang 4.4%, nga mas manubo sa target sang gobyerno nga 5.5% tubtob 6.5%.
Base sa ulihi nga datos sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), ang pag-ugwad sang ekonomiya sa ika-apat nga quarter sang 2025, halin Oktubre tubtub disyembre 2025 ang naglab-ot lang sang 3% , mas manubo kumparar sa 3.9% sang nagligad nga quarter.
Amo ini ang ikatatlo nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga wala nalab-ot sang pungsod ang target sini nga ekonomiya para pungsod Pilipinas.
Ini nagakahulugan nga padayon ang pag-uswag sang pungsod apang mahinay ini sa ginlauman sang gobyerno, nga posible makaapekto sa obra, kita, kag presyo sang mga balaklon sang pumuluyo.
Lapsag nga nagaselebrar sang una nga kaadlawan, ginbilin sa karsada bangud sa wala pag-intindihanay sang iya ginikanan
Naalarma ang pila ka mga motorista matapos makit-an ang isa ka lapsag nga nagakamang sa kilid sang national highway sa Barangay Tabalong, Dauis, Bohol, sang Martes, Enero 27, 2026.
Gilayun nga nag-untat ang mga ini kag ginpahigad ang bata, agud indi mabungguan sang mga nagalabay nga salakyan.
Base sa dash cam footage, makit-an nga malapit gid ang lapsag sa mga nagalabay nga mga salakyan, nga naghatag sang kabalaka sa iya seguridad.
Sa ibestigasyon sang Dauis Municipal Police Station, nahibaluan nga bag-o lamang nagselebrar ang lapsag sang iya una nga kaadlawan apang may nagluntad nga wala pag-intindihanay sa tunga sang iya amay kag iloy antes ang ginapahayag pagbilin sa iya sa karsada.
Ginapatihan nga ginbayaan ang nasambit nga lapsag sang iya iloy sa highway agud makuha ang atensyon sang iya bana, nga nagpadayon sa pagtrabaho bisan ginpangabay sang iloy nga magpabilin tungod kaadlawan sang bata.
Sa karun, yara sa kustodiya sang lolo ang lapsag samtang padayon ang imbestigasyon sang pulisya kag posible nga may kaso nga ipasaka batok sa mga ginikanan.
US Pres.Trump, nagpaandam nga indi na magasuporta sa Iraq kun magdaog bilang Prime Minister si Nouri al-Maliki
Nagpaandam si US President Donald Trump nga tapuson sang Amerika ang paghatag sang suporta sa Iraq kun magbalik daog bilang Prime Minister si Nouri al-Maliki.
Si Maliki, nga may koneksyon sa Iran, amo ang ginpili sang alliance sang mga Shia-led parties bilang nominee para mangin punong ministro.
Apang ginpaandaman ni Trump nga sala ang desisyon kun pilion sang tawo si Maliki.
Ini bangud suno kay Trump, sang mga nagligad nga pagpamuno ni Maliki, nag-antos sang kapigaduhon ang Iraq kag nangin magamo ang pungsod.
Madumduman nga nagserbe si Maliki bilang Prime Minister sang Iraq halin 2006 tubtob 2014 kun sa diin ginmarkahan ini sang sectarian violence kag nanaog sa pwesto matapos ginsakop sang Islamic State ang dako nga bahin sang pungsod.
Trump, nagpaandam nga indi na maga-suporta sa Iraq kun makabalik bilang Prime Minister si Nouri al-Maliki
Defensor, nagalaum nga mabalik sa orihinal nga judging areas ang Dinagyang Festival
Ginalauman ni Iloilo Provincial Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., nga mabalik sa orihinal nga judging areas ang Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan kag Dinagyang Tribes Competition.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa Gobernador, iya ginpahayag nga may bintaha kag disbintaha sang ginpatigayon ang Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan kag Dinagyang Tribes Competition sa mga bag-o nga judging area apang suno man sa iya nga indi ini sala nga desisyon.
Ini matapos nga ginpamangkut si Defensor nahanungod sa iya reaksyon angut sa pahayag sang Iloilo Festivals Foundation Inc.
(IFFI) nga ibalik sa City Proper ang venue ukon judging area sang Dinagyang Tribes Competition sa 2027.
Apang paathag man niya, nakadepende ini sagihapon sa desisyon sang IFFI kag Iloilo City Government bangud ara ini sa ila jurisdiction.
BIR, nagbalik sa pag-isyu sang letters of authority (LOA) kag mission orders (MOs)
Nagbalik na ang Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) sa pag-isyu sang letters of authority (LOA) kag mission orders (MOs).
Kahapon sang gin-anunsyo sang bureau nga gin-lift ukon ginbawi na ang suspension sang pag-isyu sini.
Pahayag sang BIR, may mga pagbag-o na nga nahimo agud masiguro nga wala sang abuso sa audit procedures nga amo ang gina-reklamo sang mga negosyante sang nagligad nga tuig.
Madumduman nga nagdangat sa Senado ang ginaalegar nga kurapsyon sa BIR kun sa diin ginagamit ang field audits agud nga makapangwarta sa mga negosyo.
Lakip sa pagbag-o nga ginhimo amo ang single-instance audit framework; buot silingon, limitado lang ang pag-isyu sang LOA sa isa ka letter sa kada taxpayer sa kada taxable year.
Matandaan nga sang Nobyembre sang ginsuspinde sang BIR ang fiel operations lakip ang pag-isyu sang LOA kag MO bangud sang imbestigasyon sa ginaalegar nga extortion scheme sa sulod sang ahensya.
Senador Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa kag Joel Villanueva, ginkakas bilang mga myembro sang Senate Committee on Ethics and Privileges
Ginkakas sanday Senador Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa kag Joel Villanueva bilang mga myembro sang Senate Committee on Ethics and Privileges.
Sa sesyon sa Senado, gin-eleher ang duha ka katapo sang minority bloc nga sanday Senador Imee Marcos kag Rodante Marcoleta agud magbulos sa duha.
Gin-aprubahan naman ni Senate President Vicente “Tito” Sotto III ang mosyon nga wala sang objection halin sa iban nga mga senador.
Nag-absent si Dela Rosa sa Senado halin sang Nobyembre kasunod sang pahayag ni Ombudsman Jesus Crispin Remulla nga nagpaguwa na ang International Criminal Court (ICC) sang arrest warrant batok sa iya.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagapangatubang naman si Villanueva sang mga panumbungon nga kaangot sa ghost flood control projects.
Ang Ethics Committee amo ang nagapanguna sa pag-uyat sang mga isyu nga naangot sa conduct, kinamatarong, pribilehiyo, safety, dignidad, integridad, kag reputasyon sang Senado kag mga senador.
Sweldo ni Senator Bato Dela Rosa, posible nga hawidan anay ukon indi pag-i-release kasunod sang iya binulan na nga pag-absent sa iya trabaho
Posible nga hawidan anay ukon indi pag-i-release ang sweldo ni Senator Bato Dela Rosa kasunod sang iya binulan na nga pag-absent sa iya trabaho.
Halin sang Nobyembre pa nga wala nagpakita sa Senado kag sa publiko si Dela Rosa kasunod sang mga report nga nagguwa na ang arrest warrant sang International Criminal Court batok sa iya.
Suno kay Senate President Pro Tempore Ping Lacson, padayon pa ang ila nga pag-istoryahanay ni Senate President Tito Sotto kun ano ang himuon, kag nalakip ang sweldo sa posible nga ipa-untat.
Apang dugang niya, kinahanglan pa ini nga tun-an bangud may mga patakaran nga nasakop sang Civil Service Law.
Nagadangat sa P290,000 tubtub sa P330,000 ang sweldo sang senador sa kada bulan magluwas pa sa allowances.
Una naman nga ginpahayag ni former senator Antonio Trillanes IV nga nagaplano ini nga mag-file sang ethics complaint batok kay Dela Rosa bangud sa iya padayon nga pag-absent.
Si Ombudsman Boying Remulla ang una nga nakamensyonar nga may arrest warrant na ang ICC batok kay Dela Rosa bangud sa nangin papel sini bilang PNP chief sang ginpatuman ang drug war.
Senate President Vicente Sotto III, ginmanduan ang Senate Committee on Rules nga tun-an ang posibilidad sa pagdeklarar sa pila ka Chinese Embassy officials bilang persona non grata
Ginmanduan ni Senate President Vicente Sotto III ang Senate Committee on Rules nga tun-an ang posibilidad sa pagdeklarar sa pila ka Chinese Embassy officials bilang persona non grata.
Ini kasunod sang pagpang-insulto sang amo nga mga opisyal sang China batok sa mga opisyal sa Pilipinas.
Pananglitan matabo ini, ginalantaw magalala ang tension sa tunga sang Manila kag Beijing bangud ini nga deklarasyon amo ang isa sa pinakaseryoso nga tikang nga mahimo obrahon sang host country batok sa foreign diplomats.
Ang direktiba ni Sotto ang ginpaguwa kadungan sang plenary session samtang nga gina-istoryahan ang resolusyon nga nagakondena sang embahada sang China bangud sa ila mga pahayag nga naga-atake sa Philippine officials kag mga institusyon.
Partikular nga namunuhan amo ang social media post ni Guo Wei, ang Deputy Spokesperson sang Chinese Embassy.
Gin-insulto ni Guo ang mga senador nga nagpirma sang resolusyon nga nagapabakod sang kinamatarong sang Pilipinas nga depensahan ang national sini nga interes sa West Philippine Sea.
Sandig kay Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson, ang president lamang ang may gahum nga magpalayas sa isa ka diplomat, apang mahimo naman makapaguwa ang Senado sang formal recommendation nga may yara sang daku nga bug-at.
Kasunod sang direktiba ni Sotto, tun-an na sang Committee on Rules ang legal kag diplomatic implications sang amo nga tikang antes dalayon nga makahulag ang Senado.
IFFI, tinguhaan nga ibalik ang banderitas sa masunod nga tuig sang Dinagyang Festival
Tinguhaan sang Iloilo Festivals Foundation Incorporated (IFFI) nga ibalik ang mga banderitas sa masunod nga tuig para sa Dinagyang Festival, suno sa pamunoan sang organisasyon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Judgee Peña, Chairman sang IFFI, iya ginpahayag nga ang mga sponsor mismo ang nagdesisyon nga indi magbutang sang banderitas subong nga tuig bangud ginakabig ini nga isa ka distraction sa mga dalanon.
Suno kay Peña, ila man tinguhaan nga ibalik ang apat tubtob lima ka mga judging areas, kag ginatan-aw man ang posibilidad nga ibalik ini sa Iloilo City Proper agud mangin isa lang ka distrito ang judging area.
Ang amo nga plano ginadiskusyunan pa kaupod si Mayor Raisa Treñas, bangud sa madamo nga pumuluyo ang nagbilin sang negatibo nga komento bangud wala sang banderitas sa Dinagyang 2026.
Ginpahayag man ni Peña nga ginapamatian sang IFFI ang feedback sang publiko sa kun ano pa ang makabulig pakamaayo sa ginakabig isa sa pinakadako nga festival sa pungsod.
Ginaklaro man sang IFFI nga indi pa sigurado ang amo nga plano, apang ila guid ini tinguhaan nga maplastar para sa mas manami nga Dinagyang Festival.
Samtang sa pihak nga bahin paga-diskusyonan man sang Iloilo Festivals Foundation Inc., (IFFI) ang plano nga pagpasakop sang Tultugan Festival sa Dinagyang Tribe Competition sa masunod nga tuig.
Madumdoman nga una na nga ginpahayag ni Mayor Francis Amboy sang Maasin nga naka-Grand Slam sa nasambit nga kompetisyon nga may plano ini nga magpasakop sa Dinagyang Tribe Competition kun hatagan sang kahigayunan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Eric Divinagracia, Dinagyang Festival Director, iya ginpahayag nga paga-istoryahan nila ini kaupod ang iban pa nga mga Board of Directors sang IFFI.
Suno kay Divinagracia, yara na sa history sang Dinagyang nga may mga tribu nga nagapasakop apisar nga indi nakabase sa siyudad sang Iloilo, gani wala sang kaso kun magapasakop liwat ang Tultugan Festival sang Maasin, Iloilo.
Ginhalimbawa man sini ang pag-partisipar sang iban nga mga festival kaangay kaangay na lang sang Binirayan sang Antique.
SP, ginpasidunggan ang mga festivals sa Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan 2026
Ginpasidunggan sang 15th Sangguniang Panlalawigan ang mga festival nga nagpasakop sa bag-o lang natapos nga Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan 2026, bilang pagkilala sa ila kontribusyon sa kultura kag turismo sang probinsya.
Una nga nagpasar sang Resolution of Commendation si Ex Officio Board Member Amalia Debuque, Presidente sang Liga ng mga Barangay, bangud nagkampyon ang Banaag Festival sang banwa sang Anilao, kag bangud man sa madamo nga mga award nga gindala pauli sang nasambit nga grupo.
Dugang pa diri, nagpasar man sang resolusyon si Board Member Jason Gonzales agud pasidunggan ang Tultugan Festival sang Maasin, Iloilo, nga nagrepresentar sang 3rd District.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpasar man sang resolusyon si 4th District Board Member Dominic Paul Oso agud pasidunggan ang Kahilwayan kag Kasag Festival.
Gin-commend guid sang Provincial Board ang mga nasambit nga festival bangud sang manami sini nga impact agud ipakita ang lokal nga kultura kag pagpauswag sang turismo sa Iloilo.
Duha ka pangayaw nga nagpangawat sa Dinagyang, napasakaan na sang kaso
Natigayon na nga mapasakaan sang kaso ang duha ka pangayaw nga suspek sa pagpangawat sa balay ilimnan sa Mandurriao, Iloilo City, pasado alas-dos sang kaagahon sang Enero 25, kadungan sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Nahibaluan nga madinalag-un nga nadakpan sang Iloilo City Police Station 10 (ICPS 10), sa pagpamuno ni PCPT Val Cambel, ang duha ka suspek nga amo sanday alias “Ryan,” kag alias “Bong,” nga lunsay residente sang Malate, Manila.
Cambel, iya ginpahayag nga matapos ang ginpatigayon sang mga kapulisan nga cellphone tracking agud ma-locate ang lokasyon sang nadula nga cellphone, ila gilayon nga natumod ang mga suspek sa pagpangawat.
Base sa rekord halin sa City Investigation and Detective Management Unit (CIDMU), ila nadiskobrehan nga si alias “Bong” may yara sang nauna nga kaso nga paglapas sa Republic Act 7610 ukon ang Special Protection of Children Against Abuse, Exploitation and Discrimination Act.
Samtang si alias “Ryan” may yara man sang na-record nga kaso sang pagpangawat.
Suno kay Cambel grupo nga nagpadulong diri sa syudad ang ini nga mga suspek nga ginalakipan sang anom pa gid nila ka mga upod nga halin man sa bahin sang Luzon.
Suno pa sa iya nga modus na sang mga ini nga magkadto sa mga aktibidad kaangay sang Dinagyang agud nga makapangawat.
Ginakabig naman nila nga organisado ang kaangay nga grupo kag may ara sang nagamando sa mga ini nga magpatigayon sang nasambit nga pagpangawat.
ICAST, nadakpan ang 265 ka mga indibidwal sa paglapas sang Anti-Smoking ordinance sa Dinagyang
Naglab-ot sa 265 ka mga indibidwal ang nadakpan sang Iloilo City Anti-Smoking Task Force (ICAST) bangud sang pagbayolar sang Regulation Ordinance No.
2021-255 ukon ang Comprehensive Anti-Smoking Ordinance sa syudad sa tion sang selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iñigo Garingalao, head sang ICAST, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga numero ginabug-usan sang mga lokal nga pumuluyo kag mga pangayaw nga nagbisita sa siyudad para sa Dinagyang.
Suno kay Garingalao, mas manubo ini kun basehan ang kabug-usan nga selebrasyon sang Dinagyang isa ka semana antes ang highlights sini.
Dugang pa niya, daku ang ginbulig sang padayon nga information dissemination sang lokal nga panguluhan, rason nga mas na-emphasize ang kampanya sang siyudad nga “Smoke-Free City.”
Ginpahayag man ni Garingalao nga nagalaum ang ila opisina nga mangin mas manubo pa gid ang numero sang mga violators sa masunod nga tuig.
Ini bangud sa padayon nga pagpatuman sang ordinansa kag pag-edukar sang publiko nahanungod sa epekto sang pagpanigarilyo sa pampubliko nga mga lugar.
Ginpunto man sang ICAST nga ang Dinagyang Festival isa sa pinaka-importante nga aktibidad sang Iloilo City, gani ila gid ginatagaan sang importansya ang pagpatuman sang mga ordinansa, kaangay sang anti-smoking ordinance.
Mga turista kag mga tumandok nagbilin sang nagkalain-lain nga reaksyon sa Dinagyang Festival 2026
Opisyal na nga nagtapos ang Dinagyang Festival 2026, apisar nga masadya para sa iban, nagbilin naman ini sang nanari-sari nga komento halin sa mga tumandok kag mga turista.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa bahin sang mga tumandok nga nagtambong madamo ang nagpahayag sang ila pagkadismaya sa kapistahan.
Suno sa ila, indi manami ang selebrasyon bangud sa kakulangan sang ila gina-ekspektar kaangay na lamang sang ila ginakalangkagan kuntani nga mga banderitas kag ginlimitahan man ang paggamit sang sound system sa pila ka mga lugar.
Nadismaya man ang iban nga nagkadto bangud sa patakaran nga no ticket, no entry” policy sa kada judging area nga nagtuga sang negatibo nga epekto sa iban nga mga matan-aw kuntani.
Ginpahayag man sang iban nga indi tuman ka gutok ang mga tawo nga nagtambong sa kapistahan kumpara sang mga nagligad nga tuig bangud sa pagbag-o nga ginpatuman sang mga opisyal.
Ini, suno sa ila, bangud ginlain man ang mga judging areas nga ginpatigayunan sang mga aktibidad kag nakabaton ang mga ini sang indi manami nga patakaran sa subong nga kapistahan.
Apang sa pihak nga bahin, ginadayaw naman sang mga turista halin sa nagkalain-lain nga pungsod ang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Ila gintagaan sang positibo nga mga komento ang Kapistahan nga suno sa iban kun may tsansa pa liwat sa masunod nga tuig magabalik pa sila liwat.
Suno sa iban nga turista excellent, fun kag na-meet ang ila nga ekspektasyon bangud sa ang ila nga na-eksperyensyahan sa dinagyang festival 2026.
Innovation kag communication consultant, nagsuhestyon nga dapat pamatian ang tingog sang mga Ilonggo antes maghimo sang pagbag-o sa Dinagyang Festival
Nagsuhestyon ang isa ka innovation kag communication consultant sa local nga pamunuan sang Iloilo nga dapat gid pamatian ang tingog sang mga Ilonggo antes maghimo sang bisan ano nga pagbag-o sa patakaran kag dalagan sang Dinagyang Festival.
Sa isa ka interview sa Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Ken Lerona, innovation kag communication consultant, nga ang Dinagyang Festival isa ka pista sang mga Ilonggo bilang pagpasidungog kay Señor Sto.
Niño, kag nagakadapat nga mahibaluan ang tagsa ka opinion sang publiko antes maghimo sang mga panibag-o nga mga tikang sa amo nga festival.
Dugang pa niya, ang mga pagbag-o indi dapat pagdaliun kag kinahanglan sang kasugtanan sang tanan nga maapektuhan, ilabi na gid ang ordinaryo nga mga Ilonggo nga nagasaksi kag naga-suporta sa selebrasyon.
Suno kay Lerona, importante nga balansehon ang kontribusyon sang dalagkuan nga mga sponsors kag ang pag-ulikid sa mga local nga negosyante kag vendors, agud indi sila mabayaan kag masiguro nga ang benepisyo sang festival mag-abot sa tanan nga sektor.
Ginpunto man ni Lerona nga nonpartisan ukon wala sang ginaapitanan ang iya kumento, kag ini ang base lamang sa iya maobserbaran bilang isa man ka Ilonggo.
Ini nga sugilanon nagsugod matapos makabaton sang madamo nga negatibo nga kumento ang pagbag-o nga gin-implementar sa selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival, pareho sang wala pagtakod sang banderitas sa bilog nga dalan nga sakop sang selebrasyon, kag ang “no ticket, no entry” policy sa kada judging area nga nagtuga sang pagkadismaya sa madamo nga mga bisita nga wala sang ihibalo sa mga pagbag-o.
Dinagyang 2026, may pinakadako nga ginpanagtag nga papremyo sa maragtas sang festival
Naghimo sang record ang Dinagyang Festival 2026 matapos nanghatag ini sang masobra sa P21-M nga kabilugan nga balor sang papremyo sa mga tribu sang Dinagyang tribes competition nga ginakabig pinakadako nga total prize sa kasaysayan sang festival.
P11.5 million ang nabaton sang Tribu Salognon sang Jaro National High School nga kampeon sa nasambit nga kompetisyon.
Sa nasambit nga premyo, P1.5 million ang cash kag ang P10 million amo ang balor sang infrastructure projects halin sa city government.
Cash nga P500, 000 kag dugang nga P500,000 nga balor sang infrastructure project ang ginbaton kada isa sang tatlo pa nga mga tribu nga nagpasakop.
Ginakabig naman ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas nga ang tuig nga ini amo ang most successful Dinagyang festival.
Duha ka mga Ilonggo, nakabulsa sang gold medal sa 13th ASEAN PARA Games
Nakabulsa sang bulawan nga medalya ang duha ka mga Ilonggo sa nagapadayon nga 13th ASEAN PARA Games sa Thailand.
Ginlutos sini ang isa pa ka Pinay nga si Marieta Hernandez sa quarterfinals, 15-6, antes ginpierde ang mga tiglawas sang Thailand nga si Duean Nakprasit sa semifinal match, 15-13, kag si Thitirat Pengprasittipong sa gold medal match, 15-11.
Sa pihak nga bahin, sa athletics, duha naman ka bulawan nga medalya ang naangkon sang 46-anyos nga si Rodrigo Podiotan Jr.
Nakuha sini ang amo nga mga medalya sa event nga 400m kag 100m racing wheel chair T52 classification.
Ginlutos sini ang multi-titled Paralympian kag iya long-time sparring partner kag abyan nga si Jerrold Pete Mangliwan.
Nag-set man si Podiotan sang bag-o nga Games record nga 1:01.06.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Podiotan, iya ginpahayag nga nagalaum siya nga paagi sini nga kadalag-an, makalab-ot sa mga natungdan ang panawagan nga suportahan ang para-athletes.
Nagpanawagan man ini sa iban nga mga tawo nga bisan may kasablagan sa lawas, dapat maghandum sang mataas kag magpasakop sa mga kumpetisyon kun may talento ukon abilidad nga mahimo mapakigbahin para nga sarang man mapabugal sang Pilipinas.
Proud naman ang Ilonggo coach sini nga si Ernie Candelario sa nalab-ot ni Podiotan.
Pahayag sang coach, sa nagligad nga edisyon sang ASEAN Para Games, fourth placer si Podiotan apang wala ini nag-untat sa paghanas tubtub nga nalab-ot sini ang gold medal kag naka-break pa sang record sa hinampang.
“Hindi rason nga bisan isa siya ka PWD person nga nadapu-an sang sakit nga polio.
Umpisa sang bata pa siya kag naga wheel chair nalang siya.
Pero wala siya nadulaan sang paglaum nga maka hatag sang bugal Hindi lang sa probinsiya sang ILOILO kundi sa bilog nga pungsod sang Pilipinas .
Sa tunga sang kapigaduhon Nag bakas gid si Rodrigo nga mag practice para makasulod sa minimum standard kag mag represinta sang pungsod.,” kabahin sang post sang coach nga tumandok sang Napnapan, Tigbauan.
Nahibaluan nga ang 13th ASEAN Para Games amo ang multi-sport event para sa mga atleta nga may disabilities.
Former PNP Chief Torre, nagbisita sa Iloilo para sa Dinagyang 2026
Nagbisita sa Iloilo agud mag-upod sa Dinagyang Festival 2026 si anay Philippine National Police (PNP) Chief kag subong Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) General Manager Nicolas Torre III.
Apisar ginbun-ag kag nagdaku si Torre sa Mindanao partikular sa Jolo, Sulu, gina-claim sini ang pagka-Ilonggo ilabi na bangud tumandok sang Tigbauan ang iya amay nga si Rodolfo “Dolping” Molarto Torre kag tumandok naman sang Dumangas ang iya iloy nga si Julia Deloso.
Siya ang nagpungko nga ika-31 nga hepe sang PNP antes gin-relieve kag subong gin-appoint sa MMDA.
Subong nga adlaw, Enero 24, ginabantayan sang mga Ilonggo ang Dinagyang Pet Parade kag ang Festive Parade Sponsors’ Mardi Gras.
Ala una karon sa hapon, patigayunon ang Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan sa Iloilo Freedom Grandstand at 1 p.m.
kag sa Iloilo Sports Complex umpisa naman 3 p.m.
Isa ini sa major highlights sang kapistahan.
Ang katapusan nga aktibidad subong nga adlaw amo ang Grand Religious Sadsad sa San Jose Parish Placer nga maga-umpisa alas syete sa gab-i.
Buwas, Enero 25, amo ang schedule para sa Dinagyang Tribes Competition.#
Mga mamalidha kag stakeholders, nagsapol agud istoryahan ang krisis sa sugar industry
Ginpasalig nanday Senator Kiko Pangilinan kag Quezon 1st District Rep.
Mark Enverga nga matun-an ang mga problema sa industriya sang tubo kasunod sang ginpatigayon nga public consultation sa Talisay City, Negros Occidental.
Si Pangilinan amo ang chairperson sang Senate Committee on Agriculture, Food, and Agrarian Reform, samtang si Enverga amo man ang chairperson sang amo man nga komitiba sa Kamara.
Yara man ang representative gikan sa nanarisari nga sugar federations, mga tiglawas sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) kag iban pa nga national agencies kag local public officials.
Ang kada sugar federation ang ginhatagan man sang tyansa nga makapabutyag sang ila concerns.
Ginpangayo naman nanday Pangilinan kag Enverga ang demand letters gikan sa tagsa ka sugar federation.
Suno kay Pangilinan, kaangay sa kun paano nila ginsolusyonan sadto ang problema sa bugas, hatagan man nila sang solusyon ang problema sa kalamay.
Pahayag pa ni Pangilinan, indi lang padayaw-dayaw ang public consultation kundi isa ka importante nga tikang nga mapakita sang konkreto nga solusyon sa isyu.
Ginpasalig man sini nga dal-on ang problema sang amo nga industriya sa Malacañang.
Nagakahangawa naman ang mga Ilonggo nga nagatrabaho sa kampo nga madulaan man sila sang palangabuhian kun magpadayon ang krisis sa industriya sang tubo.
Lakip sila sa nag-upod sa protesta sang sugargane workers sa syudad sang Passi subong nga semana agud magpanawagan nga maghulag na ang gobyerno sa tunga sang pagsarurot sang presyo sang kalamay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Terry Balboa, isa ka trabahador sa kampo, iya ginpahayag nga maapektuhan gid sila pananglitan mag-untat sa pagtanum sang tubo ang ila nga amo.
Suno kay Balboa, madamo sa ila ang wala man sang kaugalingon nga uma, kag ang kampo lang gid ang ila ginasaligan nga trabaho.
Pananglitan madulaan sila sang trabaho suno sa iya, makaluluoy gid ang ila kahimtangan bangud maapektuhan pati ang pag-eskwela sang ila kabataan.
Subong suno sa iya, pagkatapos nga nakapatapas na sang tubo, wala anay gintandog ang duta sang iya amo bangud sa problema subong sa sugarcane industry.
Matandaan nga ginpangunahan sang Jalasig Sugar Planters Association ang demonstrasyon sa syudad sang Passi.
Mga Ilonggo nga deboto ni Señor Santo Niño, nag-upod sa fluvial kag solemn foot procession
Napuno sang pagpasalamat ang tagipusuon sang mga deboto nga Ilonggo nga nag-upod sa fluvial kag solemn foot procession.
Kabahin ini sang tuigan nga selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival sa Iloilo bilang pagpasidungog kay Señor Santo Niño.
Isa sa mga nag-upod sa prusisyon amo si Evelyn Garnica, 63-anyos, nga masobra 50 ka tuig na nga deboto.
Nag-umpisa ini sang naga-upod-upod pa lamang siya sa iya nga iloy sang una kag nadala niya ang pagtuo tubtub nga siya naman ang may kaugalingon nga pamilya.
Ginpasalamatan sini ang Señor Santo Niño sa tanan nga bugay ilabi na sa ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay Garnica, mabudlay ang ila pangabuhi ilabi na bangud nawad-an siya sang negosyo sa Iloilo Central Market bangud sa tuman ka pigado nga kita.
Sa iya pagsulod sa simbahan, ginpangabay sini nga bisan sa puraot nga kabuhi, makalikaw sa balatian ang iya mga apo, iya bana, kag iban pa nga katapo sang ila pamilya.
Sa pihak nga bahin, apisar masako man sa iya trabaho bilang tricycle driver, naghingalit gid ang isa ka deboto nga si Mild Enriquez nga mag-upod sa prusisyon.
Suno sa iya, deboto man sang una ang iya nga Lola, kag diri siya nakatuon sa paghupot man sang pagtuo nga amo suno sa iya ang nagabulig sa iya nga makalikaw sa mga balatian.
Nahibaluan nga isa ang fluvial parade sa nagapanguna nga relihiyoso nga aktibidad sa Dinagyang.
Ginsundan ini sang solemn foot procession nga nagsugod sa Muelle Loney Street pakadto sa San Jose de Placer Church sa Plaza Libertad nga gin-updan sang mga deboto nga may mga dala nga imahe ni Señor Santo Niño.
Bida man sa amo nga prusisyon ang mga kabataan nga ginpasuksukan sang bayo sang Santo Niño ukon Holy Child.
‘ILOmination: Festival of Light Festivals’ nga kabahin sang Dinagyang, gindugukan sang mga Ilonggo
Gindugukan sang linibo ka mga Ilonggo kagab-i ang “ILOmination: Festival of Light Festivals” nga kabahin sang major highlights sang tuigan nga Dinagyang Festival.
Nag-umpisa ang illuminated parade halin sa Atria sa Sen.
Avenue ukon sa Diversion Road kag nagdiretso sa Iloilo Business Park.
Lima ka competing light festival groups ang nagpasundayag sa ILOmination nga amo ang masunod:
Nagdugang pa sang duag sa selebrasyon ang ang special performance sang Dinagyang Ilomination kag Lion and Dragon Dance Troupe sang Iloilo Cultural Federation Inc.
Sa mensahe naman ni Mayor Raisa Trenas, iya ginpahayag nga halin sang ginpakilala ang ILOmination sang 2023 kasunod sang pagbangon sang syudad sa epekto sang Covid-19 pandemic, ini nga okasyon ang nangin simbolo na sang kabakod kag paglaum sang mga Ilonggo.
Ginlaragway na ini subong sang alcalde bilang isa ka “major festival” nga nangin bukas para sa iban pa nga kapistahan halin sa iban nga mga rehiyon.
Bisan pa nga naga-moderno na ang Dinagyang suno sa iya, nagapabilin nga naka-angkla ang mga aktibidad sa debosyon sang mga Ilonggo kay Señor Santo Niño.
Subong nga adlaw, Enero 24, balantayan naman ang Dinagyang Pet Parade kag ang Festive Parade Sponsors’ Mardi Gras.
Ang katapusan nga aktibidad subong nga adlaw amo ang Grand Religious Sadsad sa San Jose Parish Placer nga maga-umpisa alas syete sa gab-i.#
Mga trabahador sa kampo, nagakahangawa nga madulaan sang obra bangud sa krisis sa industriya sang tubo
Nagakahangawa ang mga Ilonggo nga nagatrabaho sa kampo nga madulaan sila sang palangabuhian kun magpadayon ang krisis sa industriya sang tubo.
Lakip sila sa nag-upod sa protesta sang sugarcane workers sa syudad sang Passi subong nga semana agud magpanawagan nga maghulag na ang gobyerno sa tunga sang pagsarurot sang presyo sang kalamay.
Subong suno sa iya, pagkatapos nga nakapatapas na sang tubo, wala anay gintandog ang duta sang ila amo bangud sa problema subong sa tuman ka nubo nga presyo sang kalamay.
Matandaan nga ginpangunahan sang Jalasig Sugar Planters Association ang protesta sa syudad sang Passi.
Ginapanawagan nila ang pag-akto sang gobyerno sa tunga sang tuman ka nubo nga farm-gate prices kasunod sang pagpanglakaak sang imported nga kalamay kag kapalpakan sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) nga ma-regulate ang merkado.#
Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan 2026, balantayan subong nga adlaw
Balantayan subong nga adlaw ang “Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan” nga isa sa highlights sang 2026 Dinagyang Festival.
Patigayunon ini sa Iloilo Freedom Grandstand kag sa Iloilo Sports Complex.
sa La Paz apang wala sang judges kag indi man i-ubos pakita ang props suno sa organizers.
Walo ka mga banwa ang magapasundayag sang ila pinasahi kag matahum nga local festivals para sa 2026 edisyon sang Kasadyahan nga amo ang mga masunod:
Jimanban Festival sang New Lucena Kahilwayan Festival sang Sta.
Barbara Salakayan Festival sang Miagao Pagnahi-an Festival sang Bingawan Tultugan Festival sang Maasin nga amo ang two-time Kasadyahan champion Kasag Festival sang Banate Tawili Festival sang San Rafael kag Banaag Festival sang Anilao.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Bombette Marin, ang pinuno sang Iloilo Provincial Culture, Arts, History and Tourism Office, kada banwa ang nag-representar sang ila tagsa ka festival kag nagsalamin sang tourism brand sang Iloilo nga “Fun, Foodie, Friendly.”
Una na nga naghatag sang suporta ang Iloilo Provincial Government paagi sa pag-alokar sang tag-P2-million para sa kada banwa nga nagpasakop.
Magabaton naman sang P1.2-million nga cash prize ang kampyon sa sini nga kumpetisyon.
Nagahulat naman ang P700,000 para sa second placer; P500,000 sa third place winner; kag tag-P200,000 bilang consolation prize sa iban nga competing tribes.
Kasunod sang Kasadyahan, balantayan man buwas, Enero 25, ang Dinagyang Tribes Competition kun sa diin may pito ka mga tribu nga magapasakop.
Pila ka mga empleyado sang Iloilo Provincial Capitol, pagahatagan sang libre nga ticket para sa performance Area #2
Mangin available ang pila ka mga pulungkuan para sa mga empleyado sang Iloilo Provincial Capitol sa performance Area #2 sa bahin sang Corner Huervana-Luna St.
sa Lapaz para sa Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan 2026.
Renee Valencia, iya ginpahayag nga pagahatagan ang kada Department head sang tig-pulo ka mga tickets, apang magadepende ini sa ila kun sin-o sa ila nga mga staff ang ila nga pagahatagan.
Nahibaluan nga indi man mahatagan ang tanan nga mga empleyado bangud yara sa lima ka libo ang numero sang staff sang Iloilo Provincial Capitol.
Sa pihak naman nga bahin, may ara sang nakapain nga 400 free tickets para sa mga supporters sang walo ka mga competing festivals para sa Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan 2026 sa Iloilo Sports Complex.
Arthur Defensor Jr., nga luyag nya nga mangin priority ang mga Local Government Units nga nagpasakop sa Kasadyahan.
Pila ka mga pumuluyo, dismayado matapos nga wala sang banderitas sa pila ka bahin sang siudad
Dismayado ang pila ka mga pumuluyo sang syudad bangud sa indi pagpakabit sang mga banderitas sa pila ka bahin sang siudad para sa Dinagyang 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa pila ka mga indibidwal, kalabanan sa ila ang nagsiling nga wala sila nanamian magtulog nga wala sang banderitas.
Suno kay Angel, isa ka estudyante, iya gid nga naandan nga may ara sang mga banderitas sa pagselebrar sang Dinagyang bangud nga nagapadugang ini sang kasadya kag duag sa selebrasyon.
Suno naman kay Nanay Ester, isa ka senior citizen,namag-o gid siya nga wala sang mga banderitas bangud nga halin pa sang dalaga ini, may yara gid sang mga banderitas sa halos tanan nga parte sang syudad.
Iloilo city GSO, pabor nga wala na sang Banderitas sa tion sang Dinagyang Festival 2026
Pabor ang General Services Office (GSO) Iloilo city nga wala na sang Banderitas subong nga tion sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Neil Ravena, head sang Iloilo city GSO, iya ginpahayag nga mabudlay sa ila parte ang maghimos sang Banderistas bangud nagakasang-it ang mga ini sa wiring sang kuryente kag iban pa nga istuktura.
Ravena nga mabudlay man i-recycle ang Banderitas, bangud ini ang isa ka low density plastic rason nga ginahaboy na lamang nila ini.
Matandaan nga ginbatikos ukon nakabaton sang nanari-sari nga negatibo nga mga opinion ang nangin lihok Iloilo Festival Foundation Inc.
(IFFI) nga indi na ang mga ini magbutang sang Banderitas sa kabug-usan nga siyudad kag pagabutangan lamang ang pili nga mga lugar.
Charlie “Atong” Ang, posible nga yara sa Cambodia suno kay DILG Secretary Remulla
Ginkumpira ni Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) Secretary Juanito Victor ‘Jonvic’ Remulla nga ini ang nakabaton sang impormasyon nga possible yara sa Cambodia ang most wanted kag pugante nga business tycoon nga si Charlie Atong Ang.
Suno kay Remulla nga ang nasambit nga pungsod ang nahibaluan nga may yara sang mga operasyon sang online sabong, rason nga ila gid ginapanan-aw ang posibilidad sang presensya ni Ang sa amo nga pungsod.
Apisar sini, kumpyansa sa gihapon si Remulla nga yari pa sa pungsod si Ang kag magapadayon ang ila mga lihok sa pagdakop sa iya, lakip na ang pagkanselar sang pasapote ni Ang.
Matandaan nga gindagdagan sang warrant of arrest si Ang kag nagapangatubang sang nanari-sari nga kaso bangud sa ginapahayag kahilabtanan sini sa kaso sang “Missing Sbungeros”.
Body-worn cameras, mangin mandatory na sa mga fire inspection sang BFP suno kay DILG sec.
Suno kay Remulla nga ang ini nga tikang ang kabahin sang pagpasiguro sang transparency, accountability kag mas madasig nga serbisyo sang BFP.
Dugang pa sini nga sa amo nga pamaagi, magabalik ang pagsalig sang publiko sa serbisyo sang BFP, ilabi na sang mga negosyante.
Sa matandaan nga gin-alegar sang DILG ang BFP bilang isa sa mga korap nga ahensya sa idalum sini, bangud sa ginapahayag illegal recruitment, pagbaligya sang mga fire extinguisher kag mga inspection fees.
Anay PNP chief Torre, ginpanginwala ang aplikasyon sini para sa optional retirement
Ginpanginwala ni anay Philippine National Police (PNP) Chief General Nicolas Torre III ang aplikasyon sini para sa optional retirement.
Suno kay Torre nga nakatalana pa ini nga makig-istorya kay Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Sa matandaan nga kahapon nga adlaw nagua ang impormasyon nga gin-aprubahan na ang nasambit nga optional retirement ni Torre, nga sa karun ang General Manager sang Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA).
Ini nga impormasyon ang naghatag sang antisipasyon sang opisyal nga pagpungko ni chief Lt.
bilang masunod nga PNP chief kag ang pagpromote sa iya bilang four-star general.
ICAST, pagastriktohan sagihapon ang pagpatuman sang ‘No Smoking, No Vaping’ sa siudad sang Iloilo
Pagastriktohan sagihapon sang Iloilo City Anti-Smoking Task force (ICAST) ang pagpatuman sang ordinansa nga ‘No Smoking, No Vaping’ sa tanan nga pampubliko nga lugar sa siudad sang Iloilo may kaangtanan sa selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Ini man kaangot sa Regulation Ordinance 2021-255 ukon ang pag enforce sang comprehensive Anti-smoking ordinance agud nga maprotektahan man ang publiko.
May ara man sang nagakaigo nga penalidad nga P5,000 sa kun sin-o man ang mga madakpan nga nagapanigarilyo kag naga-vape sa mga pampubliko nga lugar.
Suno kay Inigo Garingalao, head sang ICAST, iya ginpahayag nga padayun ang ila nga paglibot sa siudad agud mga magmonitor sa kada aktibidad para man nga mapasiguro nga smoke free ang lugar.
Gin-ako man sang opisina nga ginakulang sila sa mga enforcers bangud nga yara lang sa 20 ang ila nga mga tinawo kag ila ginapanan-aw nga mangin isa ini ka pagpanghankat sa ila ang pagmonitor sa tagsa ka area of activities.
Nahibaluan man nga may ara sang 101 side events ang pagahiwatun kag possible nga maglab-ot pa ini sa 125 side events may kaangatan sa pagahiwatun nga Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Gina-antisipar sang mga deboto ni Señor Sto.
Niño ang pagahiwatun nga fluvial procession sa masunod nga Enero 23, 2026.
Bangud diri, ginpasiguro na sang Philippine Coast Guard Iloilo nga preparado na ang ila nga mga personnel kag amo man ang mga barko nga pagagamitun sa nasambit nga aktibidad.
EL (ensen) John Ga, Spokesperson sang PCG Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga ang BRP Kalanggaman ukon ang 24 meter vessel Fast Patrol Boat sang PCG ang pagakargahan sang imahe ni Señor Santo Ñino.
Samtang ang 4-meter fast patrol boat ukon ang BRP Malapascua naman ang magapasakay sang mga tinawo halin sa Parish Church, mga opisyales sang syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo.
May ara naman sang 10 ka mga modernized boats ang para sa mga deboto kun sa diin may ara sang tig duha ka mga assigned personnel sang PCG ang gin-assign agud nga masiguro ang seguridad sang tagsa ka mga deboto.
Ginklaro man sang ahensya nga indi pagpatugutan nga magsakay ang mga deboto kun wala ini sang may mapakita nga mga tickets.
Suno pa kay Ga, may ara sang maga-convoy nga mga Rigid Inflatable Boat inkaso nga may ara sang mga emerhensya sa tunga sang Iloilo river.
Nagluntad ang isa ka tension sa tunga nanday Vice Gov.
Debuque kag Board Member Mondejar sa ginhiwat nga session kahapon, Enero 21.
Ini matapos nga luyag kuntani ni Mondejar nga magpasar sang isa ka resolution sa committee report ni Board Member Rolando Distura.
Dayun man nga nagpanugyan si Debuque nga igabutang lamang sa unassigned business ang luyag sini nga idugang nga resolusyon bangod nga indi madali ukon mahapos ang magsal-ot sang isa ka resolusyon ilabi na kun wala ini nakaagi sa committee hearing.
Nag-anunsyar man sang isa ka recess si Debuque apang nagpamilit gid si Mondejar, rason nga ginhambalan sya sang Bise Gobernador nga magpungko.
Ginsunod man ini ni Mondejar kag nagpasugot na lamang nga ibutang ini sa unassigned business.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Vice Governor Lee Ann Debuque, iya ginpahayag nga wala sini ginadumilian si Baord Member Mondejar nga mag-propose sang resolusyon, apang suno sa iya, dapat ini una nga ma-hitso sa lebel sang Committee on Infrastructure antes pa man i-deliver ang committee report sa plenary.
Suno naman kay 2nd District Board Member June Mondejar, wala man nagalain ang iya nga buot kay Debuque bangud iya man nga naintindihan nga may ara gid sang tyempo nga lain-lain ang panan-aw sang kada isa.
Nag-isyu si Mayor Raisa Treñas sang Executive Order No.
006 Series of 2026 nga naga-provide sang safety kag security measures sa tunga sang Dinagyang Festival Celebration.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa, iya ginpahayag nga ang E.O.
nagatuyo nga mahatag ang nagakaigo nga kaluwasan kag seguridad sang tanan nga responders, VIPs, turista, bisita, kag mga pumuluyo.
Suno kay Gorzal, ini nga mando nagatukod sang mga security protocols nga ginapatuman sang Iloilo City Police Office upod sa AFP, kapulisan, kag iban pa nga ahensya sang gobyerno.
Lakip sa mga ginadumilian amo ang pagpalupad sang drones nga wala sang permit, pagsindi sang firecrackers nga wala sang permiso, pagdala sang armas, pag-inom kag abusive behavior nga nagaresulta sang peligro sa publiko, kag paghiwat sang political rallies ukon anti-government protests sa sulod sang selebrasyon.
Ginalimitahan man ang pagbaligya kag pag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon halin alas 8:00 sang aga tubtob alas 2:00 sang kaagahon sa mga adlaw sang Enero 22–26, 2026.
Ang tanan nga ahensya sang syudad, kapulisan, barangay officials, kag volunteer force multipliers ginmanduan nga magbuligay sa pagpatuman sang ini nga mga regulasyon agud mangin malinong kag masadya ang Dinagyang Festival.
San Jose Parish Placer, nakahanda na para sa mga religious activities bilang kabahin sang selebrasyon para kay Señor Sto.
Nakahanda na ang San Jose Parish Placer, Iloilo City para sa mga religious activities bilang kabahin sang selebrasyon para kay Señor Sto.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Lilibeth Tumulak, Presidente sang Confradia Del Sto.
Niño de Cebu kag Iloilo City Chapter, ginpahayag sini nga nagapadayon na ang nagkalain-lain nga aktibidad lakip ang paglibot sang imahen ni Sr.
May ara man sang patigayunon nga pagbendisyon sa parokya bilang pagpabakod sang espiritwalidad sang mga tumuluo.
Para naman sa mga nagahilapit nga aktibidad, ginpahayag sang San Jose Parish nga nagapakig-angot sila sang hugot nga koordinasyon sa Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) kag Philippine National Police (PNP) agud masiguro ang matahum kag malinong nga pagpatigayon sang fluvial parade.
Lakip sa mga ginahingadlan nga daku nga aktibidad ang Grand Religious Sadsad, Fluvial Parade, kag ang Traslacion sa Byernes, amo man ang Blessing of the Children.
Nagapahanumdom man ang simbahan sa publiko nga ang mother boat magahalin sa Fishing Port pakadto sa Muelle Loney.
Nagapanawagan ang parokya sa mga deboto nga mag-ugyon sa disiplina nga ginapatuman, magbuligay, kag magsunod sa mga layi sang awtoridad, agud mangin malinong ang selebrasyon sang nasambit nga religious activities.
Sugarcane farmers, magapatigayon sang protesta bangud sa over importation sang kalamay sa pungsod
Magapatigayon sang protesta ang mga sugarcane farmers sa syudad sang Passi sini nga Enero 22 adlaw sang Huwebes bangud sang dako nga importasyon sang kalamay sa pungsod nga nagresulta sang kabudlayan sa mga nagapananom sini.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Hernando “Boy” Divinagracia Jr., presidente sang Jalasig Sugarcane Planters Association, Inc., iya ginpahayag nga nagakatam-an na gid ang mga mangunguma sang sobra nga supply sang kalamay sa merkado.
Ginpahayag man niya nga ang mga Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) amo ang una nga naapektuhan sang sini nga sitwasyon bangud puno na ang mga bodega sang kalamay, gani indi na mabakal ukon mapresyuhan sang insakto ang ila produkto.
Dugang pa, ginapahayag sang grupo nga indi klaro kag indi transparent ang proseso sang importasyon, ilabi na bangud pati molasses gina-import man.
Suno sa grupo, indi makatabon sang konsumo ang lokal nga kalamay bangud ginabaha ini sang imported, gani ginapanawagan nila nga mangin insakto kag husto ang pag-import.
Ginpanawagan man sang mga mangunguma ang moratorium sa sugar importation, bangud bisan pa sila nagasulat kag naga-reklamo sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno, wala sila ginapamatian kag wala sang klaro nga sabat.
Bilang kabahin sang protesta, ginpahayag ni Divinagracia nga 17 tubtob 18 ka grupo sang sugar farmers ang nag-commit nga magapadala sang ila mga miyembro sa rally.
Gin-imbitar man nila ang iban nga mangunguma nga magsuksuk sang itom nga panapton bilang pagpakita sang ila nga pagprotesta kag pagpamatok sa nasambit nga polisiya para sa importasyon sang kalamay sa pungsod.
Sa subong, may ara na ini sang anum (6) ka check-in counters, halin sa una nga duha (2) lamang.
May yara naman sang bag-o nga gin-develop nga ramp nga sarang makaserbisyo sang tubtob apat (4) ka jet aircraft sa pareho nga tion, nga nagpadako sang operational capacity sang airport.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Giovanni Lopez, Acting Secretary sang Department of Transportation, iya ginpahayag bangud sa pagdugang sang kalabaon sang runway nga halin sa 1,430 metros pakadto sa 1,800 ka metros, nagahatag ini sang kahigayunan sang pag-akumodar sang jet aircraft.
Apang padayon pa nga nagapakig-angot sa Local Government Unit (LGU) sang Antique bangud may ara sang mga panimalay kag imprastraktura sa puno kag punta sang runway.
Kahapon nga adlaw ginpangunahan ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Nahibaluan nga ang development ang may balor nga Php1.576 billion, nga ginalakipan sang bag-o nga ginpatindog nga Passenger Terminal Building (PTB) nga mahimo nga makaakumodar sang tubtob 360 ka pasahero, kumpara sa una nga 64 lamang.
Bangkay ni Mary Jill Muya, nga napatay sa Abu Dhabi, UAE, nakapauli na kagab-i, Enero 19
Nakapauli na kagab-i, Enero 19, ang bangkay sang Ilongga overseas Filipino worker (OFW) nga si Mary Jill Dela Cerna Muya, nga napatay sa Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Tuman ang pagpasalamat sang pamilya Muya bangud, suno sa ila, wala gid sila maglaom nga mangin madali ang pagdala pauli sang bangkay sang ila himata.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa iya utod nga si Michelle Muya Santos, iya ginpahayag nga nasubuan sila sa natabo kay Mary Jill, apang nalipay man bangud “makapahuway na ini sang insakto” matapos nga na-repatriate pauli sa iya pamilya.
Sandig sa impormasyon sang pamilya, ginapahayag nga gin-utas ni Muya ang iya kaugalingon nga kabuhi.
Nasapwan siya nga wala na sang kabuhi sa iya ginatiniran nga hulot sa Abu Dhabi, UAE.
Tumandok sang Jaro, Iloilo City si Muya kag ginabanta duha ka dekada na ini nga naga-trabaho sa luwas sang pungsod.
Pahayag sang pamilya, nag-umpisa sila nga matingala sa sitwasyon sini matapos nga wala ini nakapangamusta ukon nakapanamyaw sa iya anak sa tion sang Pasko.
Matandaan nga nagdangop ang pamilya sa Bombo Radyo kag nagpanawagan sang bulig agud madala na pauli ang bangkay ni Mary Jill.
Nagpasalamat nama ini sa Bombo, sa OWWA amo man kay Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jamjam” Baronda nga natigayon madala pauli ang bangkay ni Mary Jill sa Iloilo.
Dizon, gintawgan ang contractor sang Buhang Flyover
Ini matapos nga may ara sang mga nakit-an nga nagkala-uklab nga mga semento kag nangin kitaun na ang mga kabilya sa nasambit nga proyekto.
Suno kay Dizon,nagpasalig ang contractor nga pagasuguran nila ang pag-repair sa mga damages kun matapos na ang paghiwat sang Dinagyang festival 2026 sa siudad agud nga indi ini mangin rason sang pagpugok sang trapiko.
Naghatag man sang pasalig si Dizon nga iya pagabantayan ang proyekto agud nga matigayun na ini nga marepair.
Gin-athag nya man nga kinahanglan nga mangin long term solutions ang paga-ubrahun nga repairment sa Buhang Flyover.
DPWH Secretary Dizon, dismayado matapos personal nga ginbisita ang kontrobersyal nga Aganan Flyover
Dismayado gid si Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Secretary Vince Dizon matapos niya personal nga ginbisita ang kontrobersyal nga Aganan Flyover sa banwa sang Pavia kaina sang aga.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Dizon nga makaulugot ang sitwasyon sang proyekto bangud halos lima ka tuig na ini nga nakatiwang-wang.
Imbes nga mangin solusyon sa trapiko, nangin isa pa gid ini ka daku nga rason sang padayon nga pagpugok sang dalagan sang trapiko sa amo nga area.
Ang Aganan Flyover ang may kabug-osan nga pondo nga ₱802 million nga ginlunsar sang Hulyo 2020, kag ginlauman nga matapos sa sulod sang 24 ka bulan ukon duha ka tuig, apang tubtob subong wala ini nahuman.
Dugang pa ni Dizon, may yara na sang bag-o nga tikang ang DPWH agud mapadayon ang konstruksyon sang ginhingadlan man sini nga “palpak” nga flyover.
May gin-allocate na nga halos ₱229 million nga pondo agud matapos ang proyekto sa tuig 2026, nga ginlaragway niya bilang “Christmas gift” ni Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Antes magsugod liwat ang konstruksyon, magapatigayon anay ang DPWH sang konsultasyon sa mga foreign consultant nga magalawig sang halos isa ka bulan agud masiguro ang insakto kag husto nga pagpatuman sang proyekto.
Nagpasalig man si Dizon nga pasabton ang mga indibidwal nga yara sa likod sang “palpak” nga Aganan Flyover agud mahatagan sang hustisya ang kabudlay kag perwisyo nga ginaantos sang mga taxpayers bangud sang amo nga proyekto.
Senador Jinggoy Estrada kag anay Senador Bong Revilla, dagdagan sang subpoena sa masunod nga semana
Nakatalana nga dagdagan sang mga subpoena sa masunod nga semana sanday Senador Jinggoy Estrada kag anay Senador Bong Revilla may kaangtanan sa mga kaso nga plunder batok sa ila bangud sa ginapahayag kickback gikan sa mga flood control project.
Ini nga tikang ang kabahin sang pagsugod sang imbestigasyon sang Department of Justice agud mahibaluan kun may yara sing nagakaigo nga ebidensya agud nga mapasaka ang kaso sa korte, matapos nga ini ang nag-agi na sa fact-finding sang National Bureau of Investigation kag ginrepaso sang Office of the Ombudsman.
Suno sa DOJ, ang ginaalegar nga ilegal nga pagtipon sang manggad sang duha ka akusado ang naglab-ot sa maosbra ₱50 Million kag indi lamang ini natabo sa probinsya sang Bulacan kundi pati sa nagkalain-lain nga rehiyon sa bilog nga pungsod.
May yara man sang mga anay opisyal sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) nga nagpahayag nga may ginpanagtag nga daku nga kantidad sang kwarta nga naghalin sa mga proyekto sa flood control, nga ginaalegar ginpadala sa balay ni Revilla.
Sa pihak sini, hugot nga ginpanginwala ni Revilla ang tanan nga alegasyon, samtang gintawag naman ni Senador Estrada nga baseless ukon wala sing basehan ang mga akusasyon batok sa iya.
sa pagtransfer sa pondo sang PhilHealth sa national treasury
Ginpangunahan sang Ilonggo nga abogado nga si Atty.
Taton ang pagpasaka sang plunder, graft and corruption, kag technical malversation nga kaso batok kay former Department of Finance (DOF) Secretary Ralph Recto, may kaangtanan sa pagtransfer sang P60 billion nga excess funds sang Philhealth sa national treasury.
Magluwas kay Ralph Recto ,nadala man sa ginpasakaan sang kaso amo si former Philippine Health Insurance Corp.
Ini ang ikaduha nga tion nga sanday Recto kag Ledesma ang nagpangatubang sang kaso angot sa PhilHealth fund transfer, nga una na gindeklarar sang Supreme Court bilang unconstitutional.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Atty.Taton, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga reklamo nga ginpasaka batok kay Recto kag Ledesma ang nag-ugat sa panawagan sang accountability, proper governance, kag husto nga paggasto sang public funds.
Taton sa pagfile sang kaso ang pila ka medical doctors halin sa Iloilo nga nagatuyo nga may ara sang responsable nga paggasto sa kwarta sang publiko para sa healthcare system.
Ginpahayag pa sini nga ang pag-transfer sang pondo nakaapekto sa epektibo nga pagpatuman sang Universal Health Care (UHC) kag nagresulta sa madamo nga problema sa pagbayad sang benepisyo sang mga miyembro sang PhilHealth, labi na sa mga pasyente nga may balayran sa ahensya.
Padayon naman ang proseso sang kaso bilang kabahin sang panawagan sang mga abogado kag medical professionals para sa hustisya, kaayuhan sang healthcare system, kag pagpsabat sang mga opisyal sang gobyerno nga ginatudlo may sala sa paggamit sang pondo sang publiko.
Zestah Shalom Espinosa sang Anilao, ginkoronahan bilang Miss Iloilo 2026
Ginkoronahan bilang Miss Iloilo 2026 si Zestah Shalom Espinosa sang Anilao, matapos ang madinalag-on nga coronation night kagab-i sa West Visayas State University (WVSU)- Cultural Center.
Nagpangibabaw si Zestah batok sa 11 ka iban pa nga kandidata nga nagpaindis-indis sa korona kag mangin tiglawas sang Iloilo sa Miss Universe Philippines 2026.
Nakuha man sini ang pila ka mga awards nga ginalakipan sang Best in Gown, Best in Swimsuit, Best in Introduction Video, kag Miss La Carmela de Boracay Choice Award.
Tuman naman ang pasalamat ni Zestah sa iya mga supporters, ilabi na sa iya iloy nga isa ka Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) nga nagapalangga kag nagahatag sang suporta sa iya apisar nga malayo ini.
Senator Pangilinan, ginpaandaman ang mga indibidwal nga nagatuyo nga mag-abuso sang pondo para sa mga farm-to-market road
Ginpaandam ni Senator Kiko Pangilinan ang mga indibidwal nga nagatuyo nga mag-abuso sang pondo para sa mga farm-to-market road.
Suno kay Senator Pangilinan, iya ginpahayag nga kun sin-o man ang madakpan nga nagabuhat sang sahi nga butang ang sigurado nga magapangatubang sang nagakaigo nga penalidad kag mahimo ipatawag sa Senado agud mag-eksplikar.
Dugang pa sini nga, ang Senado ang nagasekyar sang ebidensya agud makapasaka sang kaso batok sa mga madakpan nga nagapangawat sa FMR projects.
Ginpahayag man niya nga may gahum ang senado nga maka-issue sang subpoena kun matukiban nga may kalakasan o ilegal nga ginahimo ang isa ka tawo batok sa FMR nga pondo.
Rabiya Mateo sa bullies: ‘Your words can kill, tandaan niyo na, please’
Nagpautwas sang kalain sang buot ang Ilongga beauty queen nga si Rabiya Mateo kagab-i, Enero 16, kasunod sang pagpang-bully nga iya naangkon online bangud sang simple gid lamang nga post kun sa diin siya pwede makakaon diri sa Iloilo City.
Sa social media post ni Rabiya, ginsapubliko man sini nga na-diagnose siya sang 2025 nga may Major Depressive Disorder with Anxious Distress.
Nalakip sa iya ginpakita amo ang medical certificate nga halin sa isa ka adult and pediatric psychiatrist nga napetsahan sang Enero 7, 2025.
Nakabutang sa amo nga certificate nga kinahanglan nga magpahuway anay ang aktres sa professional duties para nga masiguro ang “complete recovery.”
Sa separado sini nga post, nagpahayag si Rabiya nga wala siya sang plano nga isapubliko ang iya depression.
Suno sa iya, tinuig niya ini nga ginhuptan sa iya lamang kaugalingon, kag tinuig man niya nga ginbatuan.
Apang nasapubliko ini bangud sa natabo nga bullying.
Na-mensyonar pa sini ang Kindness Campaign nga mas nagtunog sadtong 2025 kasunod sang kamatayon ni Emman Atienza.
Si Emman amo ang actress-influencer nga anak ni Kuya Kim Atienza.
Advocate siya sang mental health campaign, apang nasapwan ini nga patay sa iya apartment sa Santa Monica, California.
Bangud sa amo nga hitabo, napahanumdom sa mga tawo sa amo nga tion nga mas mangin sensitibo ilabi na sa online platforms.
Pero kamo ang number 1 mang bully sang isig katawo nyo.
Tandaan nyo na please,” suno kay Rabiya.
Ini nga posts sang aktres ang kasunod sang mga komento sa iya nauna nga pamangkot sa Facebook nga: “Iloilo na!
Where to eat?” Bisan may mga sweet kag matarong nga mga komento, may mga indibidwal naman nga nang-bash kag nagbuya sang malain nga mga tinaga kay Rabiya.
Bangud sini, nag-post pa ang Ilongga queen: “I am always proud to be an Ilongga.
Pero daw sobra2 naman ni baba sang iban nga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga si Rabiya nga tumandok sang Balasan ang yari subong sa Iloilo City bangud magapungko siya nga judge sa Miss Iloilo 2026 grand coronation night karon sa WVSU Cultural Center.
Matandaan nga gintiglawas sini ang Iloilo City sa Miss Universe Philippines sang 2020.
Matapos nakuha ang korona, ginrepresentar niya ang Pilipinas sa international stage kag nagtapos bilang top 21 semifinalist.#
2026 Dinagyang: 10 border checkpoints, iga-establisar sang mga pulis
Iga-establisar ang 10 ka border checkpoints sa syudad sang Iloilo agud nga makabulig sa seguridad sa 2026 Dinagyang Festival.
Colonel Lorenez Losaria, deputy city director for operation kag Sub-Site Task Group Peace and Order commander, iya ginpahayag nga nag-request ang syudad sang bulig nagikan sa Regional Mobile Force Battalion agud nga makabulig bantay sa sini nga areas.
Suno kay Losaria, lakip sa i-implementar amo ang gun ban nga nag-umpisa sang nagligad pa nga Enero 15.
Temporaryo nga ginsuspinde ang Permit to Carry Firearms Outside of Residence sa sulod sang 10 ka adlaw nga implementasyon sang sini nga pagsulundan.
Magluwas diri, istriktuhan man ang pagdumili sa backpacks.
Sandig sa anunsyo sang Iloilo City Government, 2,167 ka mga uniformed personnel kag masobra sa 2,000 force multipliers ang igalapta para nga mabantayan ang mga aktibidad sa Dinagyang subong nga tuig.
ICPO, maid-id ang pagplano para sa security measures sa Dinagyang kag ASEAN meetings
Ginpasalig sang Officer-in-Charge (OIC) sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga matuman sini ang marching order sang alkalde sang syudad nga wala sang daku nga mga insidente para sa major events partikular sa Dinagyang Festival 2026 kag ASEAN Summit.
Suno kay Police Colonel Wilbert Parilla, maid-id nga pagplano kag koordinasyon ang ginahimo sang talatapan lakip na ang deployment para sa Dinagyang.
Wala ini sang plano subong nga pangbalasahon ang mga hepe sa mga estasyon sang pulis sa syudad, apang iga-evaluate suno sa iya ang performances sang mga personnel.
Target man ni Parilla nga ipabilin nga maayo ang performance sang ICPO, ilabi na nga ginhingadlan ini sa national level nga two-time Best City Police Office.
“We have to maintain the title hanggang sa maka-Grand Slam tayo,” suno sa OIC.
Sang ginpamangkot kun na-pressure bala ini nga malapawan ang accomplishments sa tion ni former city police director Colonel Kim Legada, iya ginpahayag nga, “Hindi madali… it’s a big shoe to fill in.” Apang dugang niya, “That would be a challenge for me.
Kahit mapantayan ko na lang ang nagawa ni Sir Kim because napakagaling ni Sir Kim.”
Si Parilla ang head sang Regional Intelligence Division sang Police Regional Office 6 nga nagbulos kay Colonel Roland Bulalacao nga amo ang nangin OIC sang ICPO sa sulod lamang sang apat ka adlaw.
Ang amo nga development ang kasunod sang pagkakas kay Legada bangud sa lapses sa imbestigasyon sa nangin kamatayon ni Duenas Vice Mayor Aimee Paz Lamasan sa La Paz nga ginaangot sa accidental firing.
ID sang lalaki nga nagtuyo sa pag-hold up sa taxi driver sa Jaro, nabilin antes ini nakapalagyo
Madasig nga nadakpan ang suspek nga nagtuyo sa pag-hold up sa isa ka taxi driver sa Barangay Javellana, Jaro, Iloilo City matapos nga nabilin sini ang iya I.D.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Eduardo Siacon Jr., hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station 9, iya ginpahayag nga maka-apat ka beses man nga nadasma ang suspek samtang nga nagapalagyo kag nagapauli sa ila nga balay.
Magluwas sa I.D., napang-check man ang CCTV footages kag natultulan ini sa Brgy.
San Pedro, Jaro, Iloilo City paagi sa bulig sang barangay officials.
Suno sa pulis, may record nga alarm and scandal ang arestado.
May impormasyon man nga may involvement ini sa ilegal nga droga, apang gina-verify pa ini sang mga pulis.
Nagapabilin ini sa kustodiya sang mga pulis kag posible nga mag-atubang sa reklamo nga robbery hold-up.
Nahibaluan nga sang nagdeklarar sang hold-up ang suspek, nakakita sang kahigayunan ang taxi driver nga makalumpat sa salakyan.
Bangud sini, naglumpat man ang suspek kag nagkuyampad pauli.
Gasgas sa kamot kag pagpalanakit sa likod naman ang naagom sang taxi driver bangud sa amo nga insidente.
Leandro Leviste, nagpaandam nga maga-guwa ang tanan nga baho sa DPWH sa tion nga ipapatay siya
Leandro Leviste nga ang gina-uyatan sini nga “Cabral files” ang gamay pa gid lamang nga parte kaangot sa mga anomaliya sa Department of Public Works and Highways.
Suno sa kongresista, may ara pa ini sang may gina-uyatan nga iban pa nga ebidensya nga mas mabug-at ipaanggid sa mga file nga iya na nga ginpagwa.
Nagapati siya nga amo ini ang rason kun ngaa gina-target siya sang nagkakain-lain nga pagpamahog sa iya kabuhi.
Nahibaluan nga nakasulod sa Cabral files ang mga datos kag dokumento nahanungod sa budget sang mga proyekto nga pang-imprastruktura sa nagkalain-lain nga distrito sa pungsod.
Nagpaandam man si Leviste nga kun ipa-patay siya, maga-gwa ang kabug-usan nga kamatuoran kaangot sa mga iregularidad sa DPWH.
Lalaki, arestado matapos gintuyo nga mang-hold-up sang taxi driver sa Jaro, Iloilo City
Arestado ang isa ka lalaki bangud sa tuyo nga pag-hold up sa isa ka taxi driver sa Barangay Javellana, Jaro, Iloilo City.
Ang biktima amo si Joseph Alegado, 55 anyos, residente sang Sta.
Barbara, Iloilo; samtang ang suspek amo si Mark Presidente, 30 anyos, residente sang Jaro, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa taxi driver, iya ginpahayag nga naghalin ang lalaki sa GT Mall Pavia kag mapadul-ong sa Robinson’s Main sa City Proper.
Samtang naga-biyahe, gin-alegar nga namangkot ang suspek kon may GCash account ang driver.
Wala sang GCash ang driver, gani nagsiling pa ang suspek kun pwede nga makahapit anay sa Javellana bangud mapa-laundry ini.
Samtang pakadto na sa Javellana, gin-alegar nga ginpugos sang lalaki ang driver kag nagdeklarar sang hold-up.
Nakakita sang kahigayunan ang driver gani naglumpat ini halin sa taxi samtang nagapangayo sang bulig.
Nagpalagyo naman ang suspek kag nabilin ang iya mga gamit sa sulod sang taxi, apang na-identify ini paagi sa closed circuit television footage.
Nakaagum sang mga gasgas sa kamot kag palanakit sa likod ang taxi driver bangud sang iya paglumpat halin sa nagadalagan nga taxi.
Wala sang kuwarta ukon gamit nga nakuha ang suspek.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Eduardo Siacon Jr., hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station 9, iya ginpahayag nga gilayon nga nagresponde ang kapulisan kag gin-check ang CCTV footage sa lugar kasunod sang report nga ila nabaton.
Bangud kilala ang suspek, gilayon ini nadakpan sa iya balay sa Brgy.
San Pedro, Jaro kag ginkumpirma man sang taxi driver ang pagkilal-an sini.
Suno sa pulis, may record nga alarm and scandal ang arestado kag ginapatihan man nga may kahilabtan ini sa illegal nga droga.
Ginklaro sang pulis nga i-verify pa nila ini nga impormasyon.
Yara na ini subong sa kustodiya sang kapulisan kag magaatubang sang reklamo nga robbery hold-up.
Nagpamalibad ini nga maghatag sang iya statement ukon mag-grant sang interview sa Bombo Radyo Iloilo.#
Dinagyang 2026: ICTTMO, ginaantisipar na nga may mga motorista nga masabadan sa traffic scheme
Mangayo sang bulig ang traffic authorities sa Special Task Group Dinagyang partikular sa Peace and Order Committee bangud sa mga ginaantisipar nga mga pagpamahog nga ila mabaton samtang naga-deliher sang trapiko sa Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Retired Police Colonel Uldarico Garbanzos, head sang Iloilo City Traffic and Transportation Management Office (ICTTMO), iya ginpahayag nga may mga tricycle driver kag motorista nga nagabato kag nagapahog sa mga personnel sang ila opisina bangud nga nasabaran ang mga ini sa traffic scheme.
Partikular sini nga na-mensyonar nga may mga pagpanghangkat sa trapiko sa Magsaysay Road sa La Paz bangud may masami nga nagatalang sa emergency lanes nga para sa VIPs.
May kabudlayan man suno sa iya sa parking area nga ginagamit sa West Visayas State University (WVSU) bangud sa entry kag exit points.
Maga-deploy ang opisina sang masobra sa 800 ka mga personnel kun sa diin 450 para sa trapiko, 91 ang halin sa Special Services Division, may green guards man sa mga plaza, kag may police auxiliary sa mga vital buildings, kag iban pa.
Nagpanawagan man si Garbanzos sa publiko nga respetuhon ang traffic scheme bangud para man ini sa ikasulhay sang publiko samtang nga madamo ang volume sang tawo nga nagapadulong sa syudad para sa Dinagyang Festival.#
Dinagyang 2026: Mobile jails, ibutang sang ICPO sa crowded areas
Ibutang sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sa crowded areas ang mobile jails nga ginpahulam sang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) 6 para sa Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Wilbert Parilla, officer in charge sang ICPO, iya ginpahayag nga sa magutok ukon madamo nga mga tawo posible magluntad ang mga gamo.
Gintumod sini ang City Proper kun sa diin madamo sang mga aktibidad ang ginahiwat kag amo man sa distrito sang Mandurriao ilabi na sa area sang mga balay ilimnan.
Pahayag pa niya, may yara sang personnel ang BJMP nga magabantay ukon maga-drive sang mga mobile jails apang ang mga kapulisan gid sang ICPO ang magabantay sa publiko kag magadakop sa mga nagasinabad.
Ginapahanumdom man sa publiko nga likawan nga maghimo sang ano man nga gamo agud indi mapreso sa mobile jails kag indi makatuga sang huol ukon halit sa iban.
Madumduman nga ginpahulam sang BJMP 6 sa ICPO ang apat ka mga mobile jails agud mangin temporaryo nga presuhan sang sin-o man nga magtuga sang gamo sa tunga sang mga aktibidad.
CDRRMO, gina-preparahan ang mga high-risk scenarios nga mahimo matabo sa tion sang Dinagyang Festival
Ginapreparahan na sang Iloilo City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (CDRRMO) ang ginakabig nga mga high-risk scenarios nga mahimo matabo sa tion sang Dinagyang Festival.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Darwin Joemil Papa, Chief sang Disaster Response Division, iya ginpahayag nga may ara sang 4 ka mga scenarios ang ila nga ginabantayan.
Una, amo ang sunog nga mahimo matabo sa tion sang selebrasyon nga kun sa diin ang location sang Judging Area #3 nga sa Iloilo Sports Complex ang na-identify nga fire-prone area sang Bureau of Fire Protection bangud sa mga na-record nga numero sang sunog diri.
Ika-duha amo ang Extreme heat ukon tuman kainit nga mahimo tunaan sang pagkalipong sang mga performers kag mga tumalan-aw.
Ika-tatlo, ang ‘mass movement’ sa pag umpisa kag pagkatapos sang competition nga mahimo magtuga sang pagdas-ukanay sa entrance kag exit sang kada judging area.
Ika-apat, ang posibilidad sang bomb threats bangud apisar nga may security measures nga ipatuman, indi malikawan nga may magsabotahe sa aktibidad.
Suno kay Papa, ini ang mga rason kun ngaa gindugangan nila ang deployment sa kada judging area nga nagalab-ot sa 655 ka mga personnel.
Dugang ni Papa, naka red alert status na ang Operations Center kag iban pa nga mga emergency responders para sa seguridad sang publiko sa nasambit nga selebrasyon.
BFP, nagpahanumdom sa publiko nga mangin mahinalungon sa mga bagay nga posible magtuga sang kalayo
Nagpahanumdom ang Bureau of Fire Protection- Iloilo City nga dapat mangin mahinalungon sa mga bagay nga posible magtuga sang kalayo sa tion sang Kasadyahan kag Dinagyang festival 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Fire Superintendent Melanie Habawel, Fire Marshall sang Iloilo City Fire Station, iya ginpahayag nga sa tunga sang selebrasyon, indi dapat pagkalimtan ang paglikaw sa sunog.
Suno sa iya nga 6 ka mga lugar sa siudad ang ila nga ginabantayan ilabi na ang ginakabig fire-prone bangud sa ikit-ikit nga mga balay.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa publiko nga antes maglagaw padulong sa sentro sang mga aktibidad sa Dinagyang Festival, siguraduhon anay nga patay ang mga appliances kag ang kuryente nga may dako nga posibilidad nga magtuga sang kalayo.
Gin-athag man ni Habawel nga wala nagcommit ang Bureau of Fire Protection sang ila tanan nga mga fire trucks sa siudad para sa mga judging areas bangud nga nagabantay man sila sang mga areas nga may ara sang madamo nga history sang sunog.
Champion sa Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan 2026, magabaton sang P1.2-M nga cash prize
Gin-anunsyo sang Iloilo Provincial Government nga magabaton sang P1.2-million nga cash prize ang kampyon sa Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan nga isa sa highlights sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Nagahulat naman ang P700,000 para sa second placer kag P500,000 sa third place winner.
Balantayan ini nga aktibidad sa Enero 24, 2026.
Sarang malantaw ang performances sang mga banwa sa Iloilo Freedom Grandstand sa City Proper, Corner Luna-Huervana Streets kag Iloilo Sports Complex sa La Paz.
Ang nagapasakop subong nga tuig amo ang:
Kada banwa ang nag-representar sang ila tagsa ka festival kag ang tagsa ka performance nagasalamin sang tourism brand sang Iloilo nga “Fun, Foodie, Friendly.”
Madinalag-un nga nabaton sa prestihiyoso nga The Hague Academy of International Law sa The Netherlands ang isa ka Ilonggo nga abogado nga si Atty.
Cordero nga sang nagpadala siya sang iya aplikasyon sa amo nga programa, wala gid siya nag-ekspektar nga mangin isa sa mga mapili bangud sa kabudlay kag kabug-aton sang proseso.
Ginpakigbahin man sini nga tatlo lamang ka Pilipino sa bilog nga pungsod ang nabaton sa amo nga programa, kag siya lamang ang naghalin sa Iloilo, isa ka butang nga naghatag sang daku nga dungog indi lamang sa iya, kundi amo man sa Ilonggo community.
Ang iya special course sa karun ang magalawig asta sa bulan sang Hulyo sang sini nga tuig, kun sa diin ginapaabot nga matun-an niya ang mga mabug-at nga isyu kaangay sang international crimes, crimes against humanity, kag iban pa nga may kaangtanan sa international justice system.
Cordero nga kun ma-grant sa iya ang diploma nga may equivalent sa isa ka doctorate, mangin bukas ini nga dalan agud sarang siya maka-representar sang isa ka Estado, pungsod, ukon indibidwal nga nagapangatubang sang kaso sa international courts.
Ini nga mga kaso may kaangtanan sa mga kilala nga personalidad kag isyu nga ginatan-aw sang bilog nga kalibutan.
Para kay Cordero, ini nga oportunidad indi lamang para sa personal nga handum, kundi isa ka misyon nga magahatag boses kag representasyon sa mga Pilipino sa international arena sang hustisya.
Reg’l Intel Division Chief nga si PCol Parilla, bag-o nga OIC Director sang ICPO
Magapungko bilang bag-o nga Officer-in-Charge sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) si PCol.
Lailyn Sencil, spokesperson sang Police Regional Office 6 (PRO 6), iya ginkumpirmar ang bago nga designation ni PCol.
Parilla amo ang Chief sang Regional Intelligence Division sang PRO 6.
Roland Bulalacao nga ginsaylo bilang Chief of Staff sang Philippine National Police Academy.
Mayor Treñas, ginalauman nga mangin bukas sa kooperasyon ang bag-o nga ICDEO
Ginalauman ni Mayor Raisa Treñas nga ang bago nga pamunuan sang Iloilo City District Engineers Office (ICDEO) mangin bukas sa kooperasyon kag may klaro nga koordinasyon upod sa Iloilo City Government.
Roy Pacanan kahapon nga adlaw matapos ang order nga wala sini nalab-ot ang qualifications sang Civil Service Commission (CSC).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga dapat mangin committed sa transparency ang bag-o nga pamunuan sang ICDEO
Ini agud nga may ara sang direksyon kag epektibo nga koordinasyon ang syudad sa pagtukod sang mga bag- o nga mga proyekto.
Importante gid, suno pa sa iya, nga ang mga proyekto sa palaabuton ilabi na ang mga flood control projects mapuslan gid sang pumuluyo sang syudad.
Dugang pa sang alcalde nga pinaagi sa bukas nga koordinasyon kag klaro nga komunikasyon, mas mangin mahapos ang pagpatuman sang mga proyekto para kaayuhan sang mga Ilonggo.
GSO, nagpabutyag sang pagkadismaya sa paglinapta sang basura sa syudad kasunod sang kahiwatan sa Dinagyang
Nagpabutyag sang pagkadismaya ang General Services Office (GSO) bangud sa paglinapta sang basura sa nagkalain-lain nga dalanon sang siyudad kasunod sang mga kahiwatan sa Dinagyang.
Base sa assessment sang GSO, nagbalandra ang mga nabilin nga basura sa mga lugar nga ginhiwatan sang event ilabi na pagkatapos sang Opening Salvo sang Sabado.
Neil Ravena head sang GSO, ginalauman nila nga maganubo na ang basura bangud madamo na sang ginpangbutang nga mga waste bins sa syudad.
Suno kay Ravena masobra 60 ka basurahan ang ginpahamtang sang city government apang madamo sa gihapon sang truck nga basura ng nakuha pagkatapos sang mga ginpatigayon nga events.
Ginpahayg man ni Ravena nga wala na ginaplano nga dugangan pa ang basurahan bangud, suno sa GSO, indi kakulangan sang basurahan ang problema kundi kakulangan sang disiplina sang mga tawo ang rason nga nagadamo sa gihapon ang basura sa dalanon.
Dugang pa niya, may yara sang kasugtanan ang city government kag ang mga street vendors nga magbutang sang kaugalingon nila nga basurahan sa ila pwesto.
Nagapanawagan ang GSO sang kooperasyon sang tanan, ilabi na sang mga nagatan-aw sa mga kahiwatan sa syudad kag mangin responsable sa ila nga basura.
Nagalaum ang GSO nga sa masunod nga mga event sa Dinagyang, mangin mas matinlo ang syudad paagi sa husto nga pagpatuman sang disiplina kag responsibilidad sang tagsa ka pumuluyo.
Wala pagsunod sang pila ka mga drivers sa ginatalana nga loading kag unloading bays, rason sang pagpugok sang trapiko sa syudad
Ginakabig nga isa sa mga nagapanguna nga rason sang pagpugok sang trapiko sa syudad amo ang wala pagsunod sang pila ka mga drivers sa ginatalana nga loading kag unloading bays.
Base sa datos, masobra 850 ka loading kag unloading signages ang ginpahamtang sang city government bilang tikang pagsolbar sang traffic congestion.
Apisar sina madamo sa gihapon sang mga drivers ang nagapapanaog kag nagapasakay sang pasahero sa indi ginatalana nga lugar.
Sa pagpakig-angot sang Bombo Radyo kay Chairman Boyet Parcon, head sang Western Visayas Transport Cooperative (WVTC) iya ginapahayg nga gina-engganyo nila ang ila mga drivers nga sundon ang loading kag unloading regulations.
Suno sa iya, ginamonitor nila ang ila mga driver sa ila headquarters kag ginacall out gilayon ang mga naga-lapas, lakip na ang paghatag sang nagakaigo nga sanction.
Dugang pa ni Parcon, ginapanawagan man nila ang mas aktibo kag maid-id nga pagbantay sang mga traffic enforcers sa ila tagsa ka Area of Responsibility (AOR) agud masiguro ang husto nga pagpatuman sang ordinansa.
Ginpahayag man ni Parcon nga madugay na nga ginapatuman sang city government ang loading kag unloading ordinance tungod nagahatag ini sang sigurado nga lugar para sa mga pasahero.
Nagalaum man ang ila kooperatiba nga pinaagi sa kooperasyon sang mga driver, commuters kag traffic enforcers, mangin matawhay ang dalagan sang trapiko sa syudad.
Palpak nga Aganan flyover, tapuson subong nga tuig
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Public Works and Highways nga lakip sa prayoridad sang ahensya subong nga tuig amo ang pagtapos sa palpak nga Aganan Flyover sa Pavia, Iloilo nga nagabalor sang P802-million.
ang amo nga flyover kag naakig ini sa sitwasyon kag huol nga dala sang proyekto.
Ang ginatumod sini amo ang pagbisita ni Marcos sa Iloilo sang Agusto 2025 kun sa diin naagyan gid sini mismo ang Aganan Flyover kag na-post pa bangud sa maathag nga kapalpakan.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang DPWH regional office nga ang proyekto nagakinahanglan sang dugang nga P285 million para sa jet grouting sa 23 piers kag para sa widening works.
Buot silingon, ang total project cost nagadangat na sa masobra P1.1 billion.
Matandaan nga nakalab-ot naman sa Senado kag nadiskusyunan sa Senate Committee on Public Services ang palpak nga konstruksyon sang Aganan Flyover nga nagahatag sang perwisyo sa mga pumuluyo sang Iloilo.
Sang amo nga tion, nagmandu ang chairperson nga si Senator Raffy Tulfo nga magpasa ang DPWH sang investigation kag status report.
DAR, ginpanagtag na ang kabug-usan nga 13,500 ka hektarya sang duta sa masobra 5,000 ka Beneficiaries sa Western Visayas
Ginpanagtag sang Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) ang kabug-usan nga 13,500 ka hektarya sang duta sa masobra 5,000 ka Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) sa Western Visayas.
Personal nga gin-turn over ni DAR Secretary Conrado Estrella III ang mga titulo sa ginhiwat nga ceremonial distribution kahapon nga adlaw Enero 12 sa Pototan Astrodome sa Pototan Iloilo.
Base sa datos sang DAR, 2,248 ka e-titles ang gin-release sa masobra 2,000 ka mga ARBs sa Capiz; masobra 1,400 ka e-titles sa 1,717 ka ARBs sa Iloilo; masobra 1,100 ka e-titles sa 1,107 ka ARBs sa Antique; 804 ka e-titles sa 496 ka ARBs sa Guimaras; kag 463 ka e-titles sa 461 ka ARBs sa Aklan.
Suno kay Estrella, ang Western Visayas amo ang pinaka-una nga rehiyon subong nga tuig nga nakabaton sang daku nga land title distribution.
Ginpabutyag man sini ang iya nga kalipay nga nahatag na ang titulo sang mga mangunguma nga pila na ka dekada ang naghulat agud mapanag-iyahan ang ila ginapanguma nga duta.
Ginpahanumduman man ni Estrella ang mga beneficiaries nga tipigan ang ila lupa kag indi pag-ibaligya, bangud libre ini nga gintugyan sang gobyerno sa ila.
Gindugang pa ni Estrella nga madamo pa gihapon nga mga mangunguma sa rehiyon ang wala pa sang titulo, gani lauman nga magapadayon ang DAR sa pagpanagtag sang libre nga land titles.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginpahayag ni Jona Diaz, isa sa mga Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries sang Barangay Gemumua, Passi City, Iloilo, ang iya kalipay bangud sa ulihi may yara na sang titulo ang ila duta.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Diaz iya ginpahayag nga ini ang pamana niya sa iya kabataan—isa ka kasiguraduhan nga indi na matakaw ang ila manggad bangud titolado na ang ila taramnan nga mais nga may kahilwayan nga 1.2 ka ektarya.
Lalaki, patay matapos ginkagat kag ginburambudan sang magkal sa Mandurriao, Iloilo City
Patay ang isa ka lalaki matapos ginkagat kag ginburambudan sang daku nga man-og (python) sa Dike 1, Barangay Bolilao, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Val Cambel, hepe sang ICPS 10, iya ginpahayag nga isa ka magkal nga ginabulubanta may kalabugon nga 3.5 metros ang nag-atake sa biktima, nga ginkilala kay alyas Julius, ginabanta nagapang-edaron sang 30-anyos kag residente sang Barangay Hibao-an, Mandurriao.
Suno kay Cambel, nga posible nalapakan sang biktima ang man-og, rason nga gintukob ini sa tuhod kag kamot antes ginburambudan sa liog kag lawas.
Cambel nga indi venomous ang amo nga man-og kag posible constriction ukon ang hugot nga pagpulupot sang man-og ang rason sang kamatayon sang biktima.
Sa separado naman nga interview sang Bombo Radyo sa isa ka pumuluyo sa lugar, ginpahayag ni alyas Lyn nga nagtuga sang kahangawa ang nasambit nga insidente, ilabi na sa seguridad sang mga kabataan nga nagahampang malapit sa lugar.
Sa panaysayon ni Alyas Lyn nga nakakita sa biktima, gilayun ini nga nangayo sang bulig sa mga kaiping nga pamalay sang nakita niya ang kahimtangan ni alyas Julius.
Dugang pa sini nga gilayun naman nga nagpadulong ang mga tawo sa balay sang biktima kag ginpatay sang mga residente ang man-og nga nakapulupot sa ulo sang wala na sang kabuhi nga si alyas Julius.
Suno pa sa mga pumuluyo nga ila masami makita ang mga daku nga man-og sa lugar ilabi na kun high tide, rason nga nagdugang ang ila kahangawa nga may nabiktima ang amo nga mga sapat nga nag-utas gid sang kabuhi sang isa nila ka pumuluyo.
Malacañang, nagpaathag nga ang gin-authenticate nga “Cabral files” sa Ombudsman gid lamang ang gamiton bilang ebidensya sa imbestigasyon sang flood control scandal
Nagpaathag ang Malacañang nga ang gin-authenticate nga “Cabral files” nga yara sa Ombudsman ang sarang gid lamang gamiton bilang ebidensya sa imbestigasyon sang flood control projects.
Claire Castro, tagpamaba sang Malacañang, iya ginpahayg nga ang mga dokumento nga nagalapta online nga wala na-authenticate ang indi importante.
Dugang pa ni Castro nga mahimo gihapon magamit ang mga files depende sa intensyon sang mga opisyal nga magahimo sang pag-usisa.
Sa matandaan nga si Cabral ang naulamid sa flood control corruption case kag natukiban nga patay sang nagligad nga bulan sa Benguet.
Australian duo nga Air Supply, nag-abot na sa Iloilo
Nag-abot na sa Iloilo ang Australian duo nga Air Supply kagab-i.
Ini amo sanday Graham Russell kag Russell Hitchcock nga nakatalana nga magpatigayon sang ila 50th anniversary concert sa City of Passi Arena subong nga adlaw, Enero 11, 2026.
Tuman naman ang kalangkag sang mga fans sa Passi City kag sa bilog nga Iloilo nga nagahulat sa ila paborito nga banda.
Nakilala ang Air Supply sang 1975 kag nangin bantog sa ila sikat nga mga kanta pareho sang “Here I Am (Just When I Thought I Was Over You),” “Even the Nights Are Better,” kag “Making Love Out of Nothing at All.”
ICPO, ginpasiguro nga hugot gid ang ila pagbantay sa seguridad sa tion sang nagahilapit nga Dinagyang Festival
Ginpasiguro sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga hugot gid ang ila pagbantay sa seguridad sa tion sang nagahilapit nga Dinagyang Festival.
Ini agud malikawan ang bisan ano nga posible nga ilegal nga aktibidad samtang nagapatiagyon ang syudad sang Festival.
Shiela Mae Sangrines spokesperson sang ICPO, iya ginpahayag nga mas ginpabaskog pa gid sang ICPO ang ila pagmonitor kag high-level awareness.
Ilabi na bangud daku ang ginapatigayon nga mga aktibidad kag ginapaabot ang madamo nga festival-goers sa syudad.
Gindugang pa nga padayon ang koordinasyon sang kapulisan sa nagkalain-lain nga yunit, agud masiguro ang malinong nga selebrasyon.
Suno sa City Director sang ICPO, pasangkaron pa gid ang mga monitoring kag reminder activities, lakip na ang hugot nga pagpadalagan sang Drug Operating Unit sa pagmonitor para sa Dinagyang Festival.
Ginpanawagan man ang publiko nga magsunod gid sa ginapatuman nga safety protocols kag likawan ang mga ginaprohibit nga butang kag aktibidad, agud mapabilin ang kahilwayan kag kalinong sang selebrasyon.
Ginpasalig sang ICPO nga handa gid sila nga mangin alerto kag magserbisyo para sa seguridad sang tanan.
Jalandoni Flyover, ginareklamo bangud nga madanlog
Ginareklamo subong ang Jalandoni Flyover sa bangud sa madanlog sini nga estruktura.
Gin-aktuhan naman ini gilayon sang Iloilo City Government ang reklamo nga madanlog nga aspalto sa nasambit nga Flyover.
Ini matapos maglapta sa social media ang isa ka post nga nagapahayag nga delikado ini sa mga tawo nga naglabay sa dalan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantillaga Gorzal, Spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas iya ginpahayag nga madanlog gid man ang aspalto nga ginbutang ilabi na kun naga-ulan kag mahimo ini magresulta sang disgrasya.
Gilayon nga nag-coordinate ang City Government sa Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) nga nagpatigayon sang nasambit nga proyekto.
Nagapanawagan man ang City Government sa publiko, ilabi na sa mga motorista, nga maghinay-hinay kag mangin alisto sa pag-agi sa Jalandoni Flyover samtang ginaproseso pa ang mga kinahanglanon nga buhaton agud indi na makatuga sang disgrasya.
Padayon naman sa karon ang ila pag-monitor sa kahimtangan sang dalan agud masiguro ang safety sang tanan nga naga-agi sa lugar.
Mga mangunguma, nagakabalaka sa posibilidad sang paglala sang krisis sa industriya sang kalamay
Nagakabalaka sa karun ang hubon sang mga mangunguma sa posibilidad sang paglala sang krisis sa industriya sang kalamay bangud sa hagna nga Sugar Order No.
Suno sa National Federation of Sugarcane Planters (NFSP) nga ginapangunahan ni Enrique D.
Rojas, ang amo nga polisiya magapasulod sang mas madamo nga imported nga kalamay sa merkado, nga mahimo magpanubo pa gid sang presyo kag makahatag sang dako nga pagpanghangkat sa mga lokal nga mangunguma.
Ginpahayag man sang grupo nga ang pareho nga mga polisiya sang nagligad nga mga tuig amo ang nagresulta sa karun nga sobra nga suplay kag nubo nga presyo sang kalamay.
Nagpabutyag man sang pareho nga sentemyento ang Confederation of Sugar Producers Associations (CONFED) sa pagpanguna ni , nga nagpaandam nga apektado na ang mga sugar mill kag nabutang na sa ital-ital ang trabaho sang linibo ka mga mangunguma.
Nagapanawagan sa karun ang grupo sa administrasyon ni Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga mahatagan ini sang nagakaigo nga solusyon agud mapatib-ong ang industriya sang kalamay.
ICPO, padayon ang coordination sa gina-renovate nga establisyemento sa distrito sang Arevalo
Padayon naman ang coordination sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya may kaangtanan sa gina-renovate nga isa ka establisyemento sa distrito sang Arevalo nga nagresulta sa pag-hold sang walo ka persona.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Sheila Mae Sangrines, Spokesperson sang ICPO, iya gin-athag nga gin-release sang Arevalo Police Station ang mga ginhold nga persona bangud wala sang balido nga rason para sa pag-isyu sang warrant.
Suno sa iya, ang pag-hold amo lamang ang kabahin sang verification process agud masiguro kun lehitimo ang ila presensya kag ang ila trabaho sa lugar.
Nagpanugyan man siya sa mga tag-iya sang establisyemento nga ihanda kag ipreparar ang ila mga legal nga dokumento, kag siguruhon nga ang mga transaksyon nga ginapatigayon amo man ang mga indibidwal nga ginahire.
Nagpanawagan man ang ICPO sa mga barangay officials nga mangin mabinantayon kag magbulig sa pag-check sang mga tawo nga naga-sulod sa ila tagsa ka mga barangay.
Samtang suno naman kay Police Captain Benjie Dicen, Officer-in-Charge sang Arevalo Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga naga-coordinate na ang kapulisan sa City Government agud mahibaluan kun may yara sang renovation building permit ang establisyemento.
Suno sa kapulisan, ongoing gihapon ang imbestigasyon kag padayon ang monitoring sang sitwasyon.
ICPO, tinguhaan nga mapabilin ang peace and order sa pagahiwaton nga Dinagyang Festival 2026
Tinguhaan gihapon sang Iloilo City Police Office ukon ICPO nga mapabilin ang peace and order sa pagahiwaton nga Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Ini apisar nga wala gin-aprubahan ni Mayor Raisa Treñas ang pagpatigayon sang signal jamming sa mga lugar nga patigayunan sang mga aktibidades sa highlights sa Enero 24 tubtub 25.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Sheila Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang ICPO, iya ginpahayag nga ginarespeto sang kapulisan ang desisyon sang city government.
Suno sa iya, kun wala man sang signal jamming, wala ini makapabag-o sa kahandaan nga ila ginpreparar, kaangay sang ila security plan nga ila man ginpatigayon sang nagligad nga tuig.
Gin-athag pa ni Sangrines nga ila tinguhaan kag ikonsiderar ang mga security measures nga ipatuman, lakip na ang pagpabaskog sang intelligence monitoring kag mas hugot nga pagbantay sa mga lugar nga madamo sang tawo.
Suno kay Sangrines, 100% ang mga kapulisan nga handa magserbisyo sa pumuluyo kag mga bisita nga maga-upod sa selebrasyon sang Dinagyang, agud masiguro ang kaluwasan sang tanan nga Ilonggo.
Renovation sa isa ka establisyamento sa Arevalo, temporaryo nga ginpa-untat
Gin-hold sang kapulisan ang walo ka trabahante sa isa ka gina-renovate nga establisyamento sa Brgy.
Ini matapos nga nga nagsugod ang isa ka renovation samtang ongoing pa lang ang pagproseso sang ila occupancy permit.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Lea, tag-iya sang establisyamento, iya ginpahayag nga ang nagarenta sa 1st floor sang establisyamento amo ang isa ka pawnshop.
Pahayag niya nga nakacomply man sya sang occupancy permit sang nagligad nga Nobyembre 2025 apang wala sya nakahibalo nga wala pa ginapahanugutan ang pag-umpisa sang renovation kun wala pa matapos ang proseso.
Suno sa iya, naghatag man sang ‘go signal’ ang Office of the Building Official, rason nga nagpatigayon sang renovation.
Dugang pa ni Alyas Lea, gin-obra nya ang tanan niya nga obligasyon ilabi na ang mga kinahanglanun nga mga dokumento agud masugudan ang renovation.
Sa subong, padayon ang coordination sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya agud mahibal-an ang iban pa nga mga detalye angot sa nasambit nga renovation.
Nagpahayag man si Police Major Sheila Mae Sangrines, Spokesperson sang ICPO nga ginpang-release na ang walo ka mga trabahante bangud kabahin lang ang pag-hold sa mga persona sang isa ka verification process agud masiguro kun lehitimo ang ila presensya kag ang ila trabaho sa lugar.
Training para sa mga bouncers, patigayunon para sa preparasyon sang Dinagyang 2026
Patigayunon ang isa ka training sang Task Force on Moral and Values Formation kaupod man ang Philippine National Police para sa mga Bouncers sang mga balay ilimnan sa siudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Nestor Canong, head sang nasambit nga opisina, iya ginpahayag nga patigayunon ang training sa Enero 14 tubtob Enero 15.
Ini amo ang kabahin sang preparasyon para sa paalabuton nga aktibidad sa siudad kaangot man sa natabo nga stabbing incident sang nagligad nga Disyembre.
Madumduman nga nagluntad ang insidente sa bahin sang Mandurriao kun sa diin madamo ang nahamtang nga mga balay ilimnan.
Suno sa iya, mangin dako ini nga bulig para sa mga bouncers agud nga mas ma-inform ang mga ini angot sa pagsolbar sang mga problema nga posible magluntad sa mga estavlisyamento nga ila gina-ubrahan.
Hindi inaprubahan ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang kahilingan ng Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) para sa signal jamming o anumang uri ng network shutdown kasabay ng mga pangunahing aktibidad ng Dinagyang Festival.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, tagapagsalita ng alkalde, sinabi niyang ang desisyong ito ng alkalde ay ginawa sa koordinasyon sa Iloilo Festivals Foundation, Inc.
Ayon sa kanya, ayaw na ng Pamahalaang Lungsod na maulit ang mga nakaraang edisyon ng Dinagyang kung saan ipinatupad ang signal shutdown, na hindi lamang nakaapekto sa Lungsod ng Iloilo kundi pati na rin sa mga karatig-bayan at maging sa lalawigan ng Guimaras.
Noong panahong iyon, naapektuhan din ang mga food delivery riders, mga industriya ng e-commerce, pati na rin ang mga hakbang sa emergency response.
Sa halip na signal shutdown, hiniling ng Pamahalaang Lungsod sa Philippine National Police (PNP) na magpatupad ng mas mahigpit at mas nakikitang mga hakbang sa seguridad upang matiyak ang kaligtasan ng mga dadalo sa kapistahan.
Nangako naman ang pulisya ng full force deployment, kabilang ang mobilisasyon ng mga force multipliers.#
2026 Dinagyang: 24 judges, gin-imbitar para sa pinaka-balantayan nga mga kumpetisyon
Nag-imbitar ang organizers sang 24 ka dekalidad nga judges agud nga makapili kun sin-o ang magapangibabaw sa pinaka-balantayan nga mga aktibidad sa Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elvert Bañares, head sang Committee on Judges sa Dinagyang Festival 2026, iya ginpahayag nga sa numero nga ini, lima ang bag-o, samtang ang iban naman ang naka-agi na pungko bilang judges sa nauna nga mga edisyon sang world-class nga Dinagyang.
Ini nga judges ang makabig suno sa iya bilang “best people” sa patag sang culture and arts, dance, direction, kag iban pa.
Wala sini gindetalye kun sanday sin-o sila, apang suno sa iya, kilala, naapresyar, kag ginakalangkagan gid sang judges ang Dinagyang.
Dugang sini: “I’m very happy to say nga ang gin-invite naton nga judges, maabot sila sa January 23, in time for the ILOmination, and then ma-judge sila sa Kasadyahan, kag ma-judge man sila sa Dinagyang.
Sandig sa schedule nga gin-release sang Iloilo Dinagyang Festival, matabo ang Ilomination Streetdance Competition sa Enero 23.
Matuon naman sa Sabado, Enero 24, ala una sang hapon, ang Kasadyahan sa Kabanwahanan, samtang alas otso sang aga sa Domingo, Enero 25, ang Dinagyang Tribes Competition.
Alas tres sa hapon naman maga-umpisa ang Sadsad sa Calle Real.
Naka-sentro ang tema sang Dinagyang 2026 sa “Bugay sang Ginoo.
Mayor Treñas, gindayaw kag ginpasalamatan ang serbisyo ni Legada bilang ICPO director
Ginpasalamatan kag gindayaw ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang serbisyo nga nahatag ni Police Colonel Kim Legada bilang director sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO).
Ginpabutyag ini sang alkalde matapos gin-anunsyo sang Police Regional Office (PRO) VI nga gin-relieve si Legada kag temporaryo nga iga-assign sa regional headquarters bangud sa lapses sa imbestigasyon sa Lamasan case.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ginakilala sang syudad nga sa idalom sang liderato ni Legada, ginpasidunggan ang ICPO bilang back-to-back Best City Police Office.
Ginbalikan man sang alcalde ang mas mabaskog nga kampanya sang ICPO kontra sa droga kun sa diin sa idalom sang pagpamuno ni Legada, malapit 1,00 ka drug operations ang natigayon, masobra 1,300 ka ginaalegar nga durugista ang naaresto, kag masobra P300-million nga balor sang droga ang nakumpiskar.
Sa iya statement, ginpahayag man sang alcalde nga naghingyo siya kay PRO 6 Director Brigadier Gen Josefino Ligan nga ikonsiderar ang bulig kag paggiya ni Legada ilabi na sa palaabuton nga major events sa syudad kaangot sa Dinagyang.
“Naintindihan ko nga leaders come and go, kag kabahin ini sang normal nga dalagan sang serbisyo publiko.
Apang sa sini nga tion, ginahambal ko ang akon bug-os nga pagpasalamat sa iya serbisyo para sa Iloilo City.
Matandaan nga nagpungko si Legada bilang ICPO chief sadtong 2024 tal-os kay Colonel Joeresty Coronica nga subong yara na sa Negros Island Region (NIR).#
PRO 6 Director, nagpasalig nga indi pag-itolerar ang lapses sa imbestigasyon sang mga pulis
Ginpahanumdom sang director sang Police Regional Office (PRO) VI nga dapat nga padalman gid sang mga kapulisan ang mga insidente ilabi na ang naga-involve sang discharge of firearms.
Kaangot ini sa kaso sang kamatayon ni Duenas, Iloilo Vice Mayor Aimee Paz Lamasan nga naangot sa accidental firing samtang yara sa iya balay sa La Paz, Iloilo City.
Suno kay PRO VI Director Bgen Josefino Ligan, sa kaangay sini nga kaso, dapat nga kadtuan gilayon kag dapat nga may team sang scene of the crime operatives (SOCO).
Mausisa lang sang maayo ang kaangay nga hitabo suno sa iya kun may forensic investigation.
Ginpahanumdom man sini sa mga personnel nga kun magresponde sa anuman nga kaso, indi lang dapat magsalig sa isugid sang mga tawo sa palibot, kundi tul-iron gid ang mga sirkumstansya sa kaso.
“Hindi tayo mag-re-relay sa sasabihin ng tao na, ‘Sir, suicide yan.’ No.
“Kasi mamaya, sasabihin [nila] na nag-suicide, pero binaril pala,” suno kay Ligan sa iya nga ginhatag nga halimbawa.
Sa iya mensahe sa publiko, nagpasalig si Ligan nga indi pag-itolerar kag indi na maliwat ang lapses sa imbestigasyon sang kapulisan.
Maga-conduct man ang pamunuan sang refresher course agud nga mas mangin maayo ang ihibalo sang mga pulis sa rehiyon sa investigative procedure.
Dinagyang 2026: Request sang ICPO nga signal jamming, wala gin-aprubahan sang alkalde
Wala gin-aprubahan ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang gin-request sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga signal jamming ukon anuman nga porma sang network shutdown kadungan sang highlights sang Dinagyang Festival.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, spokesperson sang alcalde, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga desisyon sang alcalde ang ginhimo nga may koordinasyon sa Iloilo Festivals Foundation, Inc.
Pahayag sini, indi na luyag sang City Government nga masulit ang mga nagligad nga edisyon sang Dinagyang kun sa diin sang ginpatuman ang signal shutdown, indi lang syudad sang Iloilo ang naapektuhan kundi ang kaiping nga mga banwa partikular ang Leganes, Pavia, San Miguel, Santa Barbara, kag Tigbauan, amo man ang probinsya sang Guimaras.
Sa baylo nga signal shutdown, naghingyo ang City Government sa Philippine National Police (PNP) nga mag-implementar sang mas hugot kag mas visible nga security measures agud nga mangin hilway sa katalagman ang mga magatambong sa kapistahan.
Nagpasalig naman ang pulis sang full force deployment lakip na ang mobilisasyon sang force multipliers.#
ICPO director kag isa ka station commander, gin-relieve bangud sa Lamasan case
Ini ang kasunod sang ginapahayag nga lapses sa imbestigasyon kaangot sa kamatayon ni Duenas, Iloilo Vice Mayor Aimee Paz Lamasan.
Suno kay Police Regional Office (PRO) VI Director Police Brigadier General Josefino Ligan, temporaryo anay nga iga-assign sanday Legada kag Delgado sa PRO VI headquarters ukon sa Campo Delgado.
Sandig sa kumpirmasyon ni Ligan, magaserbe ang PRO VI Deputy Regional Director for Operations nga si Police Colonel Roland Bulalacao bilang officer-in-charge sang ICPO.
Ini nga tikang ang kasunod sang personal nga pagbisita ni Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) Secretary Jonvic Remulla sa syudad sang Iloilo kadungan sang lubong ni Lamasan.
Ginpahayag anay sang tiglikom nga palpak ang nangin imbestigasyon sa kamatayon sang vice mayor.
Ginmensyonar man sang opisyal nga 36 ka oras pa ang nagligad kag napatay na ang biktima antes nag-imbestigar ang mga kapulisan sa insidente.
Una na nga ginkumpirma sang awtoridad nga accidental firing ang natabo kay Lamasan nga nangin rason sang kamatayon sini sa bisperas sang Bag-ong Tuig.
Dinagyang 2026: Kapulisan, nagpakighinun-anon sa bar-owners para sa matawhay nga selebrasyon
Nakighinun-anon ang kapulisan sa bar owners sa Mandurriao, Iloilo City agud nga mapasiguro nga mangin safe ang mga bar-goers kadungan sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Val Cambel, hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station 10, iya ginpahayag nga nakapasalig naman ang mga tag-iya nga magabulig sa pagpabilin sang kalinong kag katawhay, apang ginpahanumdom lang sa ila ang ila nga katungdanan.
Suno kay Cambel, gina-finalize man subong ang mga aktibidad para sa bouncer training para nga ma-edukar sila kag ma-refresh ang ila ihibalo agud mahibal-an nila ang dapat himuon kag ang ila limitasyon kun may sitwasyon nga nagakinahanglan sang ila serbisyo.
Magluwas diri, handa naman ang pulis nga magserbisyo para sa festival-goers nga magatambong sa ILOmination nga kinaandan ginahiwat sa Diversion Road.
Nagpangabay man ang pamunuan nga kun magkadto sa syudad agud mag-selebrar sang Dinagyang, ipaiway ang pagtuga sang gamo ukon pag-inaway ilabi na kun maka-inom.
Ginapangabay man nga likawan ang pagsuksok sang malahalon nga alahas kag pag-expose sang gadgets ukon iban pa nga malahalon nga gamit agud nga indi maka-engganyo sang mga kawatan.
Legada kag hepe sang La Paz PNP, gin-relieve sa pwesto
Josefino Ligan sa iya ginhiwat nga press conference subong lamang nga aga.
Ang pag-relieve sa duha ang kaangot sa ginapahayag nga kapalpakan sa natabo nga imbestigasyon sa kamatayon ni Dueñas Vice Mayor Aivee Paz Lamasan.
Mismo si DILG Secretary Jonvic Remulla ang nagsiling nga napigawan siya sa mahinay nga imbestigasyon sang ICPO sa kaso sang bise-alkalde.
Kim Legada, nagpahayag nga wala maglab-ot sa 36 ka-oras antes magresponde ang mga kapulisan kay VM Lamasan
Kim Legada ang nangin pahayag ni Department of Interior and Local Government Secretary Jonvic Remulla nga masobra 36 ka-oras antes pa nga magresponde ang kapulisan sa ginpahayag nga gun fire incident ni Dueñas Vice Mayor Lamasan nga gintunaan sang kamatayon sini.
Legada, Police director sang Iloilo city Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga matapos nila nga nahibaluan ang natabo, nagsugod naman sila sa pag-imbestigar kun sa diin gintinguhaan man nila nga mag-istorya kay Vice Mayor Lamasan samtang yara ini sa ospital kag amo man sa pamilya sini.
Ginklaro man niya nga wala mapatigayon sang Scene of the Crime Operatives (SOCO) ang ila nga imbestigasyon bangud nga ginsanitize na ang area kun sa diin ini natabo kag ginturn-over na lang sa imbestigador ang armas.
Dugang pa niya nga ginapangunahan na sa subong sang Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) ang imbestigasyon kun sa diin nagapakig-angot man ang Iloilo City Police Office.
Suno sa iya nga ila pa paga-imbestigaran ang nangin tikang sang mga personnel sang La Paz Police Station sa insidente.
Road Closure, ipatuman sa pila ka area sang siudad sang Iloilo angot sa Kasadyahan kag Dinagyang Festival 2026
Uldarico Garbanzos sang Iloilo City Traffic and Transportation Management Office nga may ara sang ipatuman nga mga road closures para sa paalabuton nga mga aktibidad angot sa Kasadyahan kag Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Garbanzos, iya ginpahayag nga madamo nga mga bahin sang siudad ang pagasiraduhon ilabi na sa bahin sang Iloilo Freedom Grandstand tubtob sa West Visayas State University.
Suno man sa iya, pagasiguraduhon ang bilog nga JM Basa Street kag Iznart St., bangud nga ini ang magaserbe nga mayor nga ruta para sa Opening Salvo.
Pagaumpisahan ang road closure alas-11 sa aga sa mga mayor nga ruta sa siudad.
Dugang pa niya nga nagakoordinar naman sila sa mga barangay agud nga makabulig man ang ila nga mga awtoridad sa pagpalapta sang impormasyon angot sa road closure.
Nagpatigayon man sang Road clearing operations ang Public Order and Safety Management Office (POSMO) antes ang pagahiwaton nga Opening Salvo sang Kasadyahan kag Dinagyang tribes competition.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Cyril Octavio, Chief Operation sang POSMO, iya ginpahayag nga ila gina-engganyo ang publiko nga magamit ukon magsakay na lang sa mga pampubliko nga salakyan ukon mag-commute kag indi na anay magdala sang pribado nga salakyan.
Ini agud nga malikawan ang pagpugok sang trapiko sa paalabuton nga mga aktibidad sa siudad.
Mga awtoridad sa siudad sang Iloilo, preparado na para sa paalabuton nga Dinagyang 2026.
Preparado na ang security measures kag deployment plan sang mga kapulisan para sa paalabuton nga Dinagyang 2026.
Kim Legada, Director sang Iloilo City Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga may ara sang 10 day gun ban nga patigayunon kag paga-umpisahan sa Enero 15 tubtob Enero 25.
Madumduman nga gin-aprubahan kag ginkumpirma ini ni Philippine National Police Chief, Lt.
Jose Melencio Nartatez Jr., agud nga masiguro man ang kalinong sa paalabuton nga mga aktibidad sa siudad.
May ara man sang kaangay nga deployment sang mga kapulisan sang nagligad nga tuig ukon ang Special Task Group Dinagyang.
Naistoryahan man sang mga awtoridad ang Signal Jamming kun sa diin indi pa sigurado kun ini ang ipatuman.
Ini bangud sa madamo man nga komento nga mas maayo kun wala sang signal jamming bangud nga nagaresulta ini sang total signal shutdown.
Wala pa man makahatag sang pinal nga desisyon si City Mayor Raisa Treñas kun pagadayunon gid man ang signal jamming sa siudad sang Iloilo.
Apang nagpasiguro naman ang Iloilo City Police Office nga mangin matawhay ang pagselebrar sang Dinagyang Festival 2026.
Remulla, nadismaya sa ICPO sa imbestigasyon sa pagkamatay ni Dueñas Vice Mayor Lamasan
Inamin ni DILG Secretary Juanito Victor “Jonvic” Remulla nga nadismaya ito sa imbestigasyon na isinagawa ng Iloilo City Police Office kaugnay sa pagkamatay ni Dueñas Vice Mayor Lamasan.
Ayon kay Secretary Remulla, umabot pa sa 36 na oras matapos pumanaw ang biktima bago nagsagawa ng imbestigasyon ang ICPO.
Ito ang dahilan aniya na personal ito na nagtungo sa Iloilo kasama sina PNP acting cheif Lieutenant General Jose Melencio Nartatez Jr.
Pahayag ni Secretary Remulla, mahalagang agad na maimbestigahan at ma-secure ang crime scene sa lahat ng insidenteng may kinalaman sa pamamaril upang matukoy kaagad ang tunay na dahilan ng pangyayari.
Gayunman, sa kaso ni Vice Mayor Lamasan, dahil sa pagkaantala ng imbestigasyon, kinailangan pang i-recreate ng mga awtoridad ang buong pangyayari.
Dagdag pa ni Remulla, matapos suriin ang lahat ng affidavits, nakumpirma na ang accidental firing ang nangyari at walang nakitang foul play sa pagkamatay ng bise alkalde.
PDLs, magapasundayag man sa Dinagyang Festival 2026
Balantayan ang mangin performance sa Dinagyang Festival 2026 sang grupo sang mga Persons Deprived of Liberty ukon PDL sa Iloilo City District Jail–Male Dormitory sa Barangay Ungka, Jaro.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jail Superintendent Denver Beltran, jail warden, iya ginpahayag nga ang grupo sang sini nga mga PDLs ang ginatawag nga Tribu Paghilom.
Suno kay kay Beltran, patigayunon ang performance sa sulod mismo sang pasilidad kag malantaw sang publiko paagi sa live feed ukon recorded video nga ipakita sa mga venues sang festival.
Gin-athag naman ni Beltran nga ang pagpasakop sang grupo ang indi kabahin sang opisyal nga kompetisyon.
Suno kay Beltran, ang inisyatibo ang naghalin mismo sa mga PDLs agud ipakita man ang ila nga debosyon kay Sr.
Sto Niño kag bilang kabahin man sang ila nga rehabilitasyon.
Unemployment kag underemployment rate sa Pilipinas sang Nobyembre 2025, nagnubo suno sa PSA
Nagnubo ang unemployment kag underemployment rate sa Pilipinas sang Nobyembre 2025 kumpara sang bulan sang Oktubre, suno sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA).
Ini nagakahulugan nga mas madamo nga pumuluyo ang nakakita sang obra kag nagnubo man ang mga indibdiwal nga nagapangita pa sang dugang nga kita.
Apisar sini, mas mataas sa gihapon ang unemployment rate sang tug 2025 kun ikumpara sang Nobyembre tuig 2024.
Paathag sang PSA nga dako ang naging epekto sang mabaskog nga mga bagyo nga Tino kag Uwan nga nakaapekto sa sektor pareho sang hotel, kalan-an, kag komersyo, nga nagresulta sa madamo ka indibidwal ang nadulaan sang madamo nga obra.
Iloilo Provincial Government, nagpa-in sang P1 million nga budget para sa repair sang track oval sang Iloilo Sports Complex
Nagpa-in ang Iloilo Provincial Government sang P1 million nga budget para sa repair sang track oval sang Iloilo Sports Complex.
Inisyal ini nga tikang agud ma-rehabilitate ang pasilidad nga ginahingadlan na nga expired na ang rubberized surface.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ray Cabarles, Sports Development Officer IV sang Iloilo Provincial Government, iya ginpahayag nga kinahanglan nga i-rehabilitate ang track oval, ilabi na bangud madamo nga sports competitions ang pagapatigayunon sa Iloilo Sports Complex.
Suno sa opisyal, napalab-ot na ang kahimtangan sang pasilidad kay Governor Toto Defensor.
Suno sa program of work, kun matigayon gid man nga mga rehabilitate ini ang gasto mahimo maglab-ot sa P40 tubtob P44 million.
Apang sa karon, repair pa lang anay ang mahatag sang probinsya samtang nagapangita pa sang dugang nga pondo ang gobernador.
Lakip sa mga palaabuton nga aktibidad amo ang City Meet sa Pebrero kag ang PRISAA.
Suno kay Cabarles, may ara sang mga patches ilabi na sa starting line sang 100-meter dash nga guba na gid.
Duagng pa sini sa bahin naman sang patiagyunon nga Dinagyang Festival, dira man magaperform ang mga nagkalain-lain nga tribo nga magapasakop sa nasambit nga aktibidad.
Ang budget nga P1 million ang nagikan sa General Services Office gamiton para sa repair sang track oval.
Sa karon, padayon ang pagpangita sang probinsya para sa rehabilitation sang rubberized track.
Samtang, ginapahayag man nga ang Iloilo Sports Complex may ara sang sitting capacity nga 8,000 ka tawo, nga ginapaabot nga magaserbe sa madamo nga bisita kag participants sa mga aktibidad, ilabi na sa tion sang Dinagyang Festival.
IFFI, indi na magpatuman sang signal jamming sa Dinagyang Festival sa highlight sini sa Enero 24-25, 2026
Ginpakamaayo sang Iloilo Festivals Foundation Incorporated (IFFI) nga indi na magpatuman sang signal jamming sa Dinagyang Festival sa highlight sini sa Enero 24-25, 2026.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joyce Clavesillas, Executive Director sang IFFI, iya ginpahayag nga mas maayo kun wala sang signal jamming bangud inkaso nga may mga kinahanglan nga i-coordinate ukon i-communicate, madasig lang nga matatapan sang mga magatambong sang Dinagyang.
Suno kay Clavesillas, ginarespeto man sang IFFI ang desisyon sang ICPO bangud para ini sa seguridad sang mga tawo nga magatambong sa Dinagyang Festival.
Dugang diri, magasunod sa gihapon ang IFFI kun ano man ang mangin desisyon sang alkalde.
Nahibaluan nga nag-request ang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sang temporary signal jamming para sa nagahilapit nga Dinagyang Festival bilang kabahin sang ila security measures.
Sambag, Jaro, I.C, nagpabutyag sang kahangawa matapos ang natabo nga pagbukas sang manhole sa ila lugar
Nagpabutyag sang kahangawa ang pila ka mga residente sang Barangay Sambag, Jaro, Iloilo City nga may natabo nga pagbukas sang manhole sa ila lugar kaangay sang natabo sa Guanco St.
Suno sa mga residente, ang amo nga insidente natabo antes pa sang ginreport nga pagbukas man sa Guanco nga malapit sa pawnshop kag remittance.
Suno pa sa nakasaksi takna pasado ala-una sang kaagahon ginbuksan sang mga suspek ang manhole nga ginapatihan ginapanag-iyahan sang isa ka telecommunications company.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Jerome, nga nakasaksi sang insidente, iya ginpahayag nga natingala siya sang makita niya ang pila ka mga indibidwal nga gin-amat-amat tiltig ang manhole.
Sang nagpalapit siya, nag-amat-amat man nga nagpalagyo ang mga indibidwal.
Suno pa kay alyas Jerome, kaangay sang sa Guanco ang modus sang mga indibidwal.
May ara sila sang van nga ginasakyan kun sa diin ginalakipan sang lima ka indibidwal nga nagapalibot sa manhole, duha sa sulod sang van kag isa sa guwa sini.
Suno pa kay alyas Jerome, ang ila bayo may reflectorized vest kag hard hat nga kaangay sang mga construction worker nga nag-operate sa gab-i.
Ginapatihan sang mga residente nga illegal ang ginahimo sang mga indibidwal bangud takna tunga sang gab-i ang mga ini naga-operate.
Nagapati man sila nga posible nga pagkuha sang mga wire ang tuyo sang mga suspek, bangud mas mahapos ini himuon paagi sa manhole.
LEEO, gin-athag nga indi dala ang roll-up sa ginpangtukod nga mga stalls sa mga merkado
Gin-athag sang Local Economic Enterprise Office (LEEO) nga indi dala ang roll up sa ginpangtukod nga mga stalls sa Public Market sa syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maricel Mabaquiao, Head sang (LEEO), iya ginpahayag nga wala na nadala sa budget sang City government kag mga contractor ang pagtakod sang roll-up sa mga stalls sa Lapaz Public Market.
Ini kaangot sa ginareklamo sang pila ka mga vendors sa Lapaz Public Market nga magamay nga espasyo nga ginhatag sa ila para sa ila nga mga baligya.
Ang iban nagapahayag man nga kun mag-extend pa ang iban nga vendors, posible nga maglapaw ini sa ginatalana nga area kag possible may ara sang multa ang magalapas.
Ginpaathag man ni Mabaquiao nga ang pag-assign sang stalls ginbase sa available nga espasyo sang merkado kag sa classification sang balaligyaan.
Kisame nga naga-moist kag molds sa City Hall Annex Building, ginareklamo sang pila ka mga konsehal
Ginareklamo sang pila ka mga konsehal sa syudad sang Iloilo ang opisina sa City Hall Annex Building bangud sa pag-moist kag pag-molds sa kisame, nga ginpahayag nga posible naghalin sa leakage sang tubig sa pipelines.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga wala pa sang problema sa kisame sang Disyembre, apang sang nagbalik sila, nakita nila nga naga-moist ini kag may molds na sa kisame.
Nagpadala na sila sang sulat sa City Engineers Office kag kay Mayor Raisa Treñas kag nagapangayo sila sang bulig agud mahatagan sang solusyon ang nasambit nga problema.
Ginreport man nga may ara sang leakage sa opisina ni Councilor Rex Sarabia kag sa opisina ni Vice Mayor Love-love Baronda amo man kay Councilor Nene De Llana nga opisina.
Nagapakita nga indi lang isa ka lugar ang apektado kundi madamo nga opisina sa building.
ICPO, nag-request sang temporary signal jamming para sa nagahilapit nga Dinagyang Festival
Nag-request ang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sang temporary signal jamming para sa nagahilapit nga Dinagyang Festival bilang kabahin sang ila security measures.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni ICPO spokesperson Shiela Mae Sangrines nga nagpadala na sila sang sulat kay Mayor Raisa Treñas agud mangayo sang permiso para sa temporary nga signal jamming sa lugar kun diin hiwaton ang mga aktibidad sang Dinagyang.
Suno sa ICPO, tubtob sa karon wala pa sila sang nabaton nga pormal nga response ukon approval nahanungod sa amo nga request.
Ginapahayag nga ang signal jamming kabahin sang mga tikang agud masiguro ang seguridad sang publiko kag malikawan ang bisan ano nga major incident sa Dinagyang.
Ginpasalig man sang ICPO nga temporary lamang ang signal jamming kag pagkatapos sang mga aktibidad sang Dinagyang, ibalik man dayon ang signal.
Kada tuig, ginarequest man nila ini nga tikang bilang kabahin sang standard security requirements.
Lakip pa sa ginapatuman nga security measures amo ang bag checking, istrikto nga entrance kag exit points, kag padayon nga monitoring sang sitwasyon sa mga lugar nga pagahiwatan sang mga aktibidades.
100% nga refund para sa mga apektado nga vendors sa pagbulwak sang tubig sa Iloilo Central Market, gilayon nga igarelease
Ginatudlo nga ang pag-clog sang mga debris sa drainage sang Iloilo Central Market ang rason sang nagpuswak kag nagkalaguba nga tiles sa merkado.
Ini ang base sa resulta sang ginpatigayon nga joint inspection sang SM Prime Holdings Inc., (SMPHI), Local Economic Enterprise Office (LEEO), kag City Engineer’s Office kahapon nga adlaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga agud malikawan ang masunod nga insidente, magadugang sang water pump sa Iloilo Central Market agud mapadasig ang pagpa-gwa sang tubig padulong sa main drainage system.
Bangud sang insidente, walo ka vendors ang naapektuhan.
Sa tatlo ka vendors, ginabulubanta nga masobra ₱229,000 ang balor sang ila mga produkto nga nadamage.
Sa bahin sang rice and grains, naglab-ot sa ₱81,000 ang balor sang 74 ka sako sang bugas ang nabasa.
Sa kabug-usan, ginabulubanta nga masobra ₱311,000 ang kabug-usan nga balor sang mga produkto nga nadamage.
Ginpahayag man nga ang mga claims sang mga vendors gin-submit na sa contractor.
Ginpasalig nga may ara sang 100 percent refund para sa mga apektado nga vendors kag igarelease ini gilayon.
Padayon naman ang close monitoring sang City Government kag mga concerned agencies agud masiguro nga indi na maliwat ang pareho nga problema.
12 ka mga barangay sa Concepcion, Iloilo, apektado sa shearline; 216 ka mga motor bangka nagkalaguba
Naglab-ot sa 12 ka mga kabarangayan ang apektado sa Concepcion, Iloilo bangud sang shear line kun sa diin 216 ka mga motor bangka ang nagkalaguba sang nagligad nga Enero 3.
El John Ga, spokesperson sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga nagpatigayon ang PCG sang assessment sa mga apektado nga lugar upod ang koordinasyon sang Local Government Unit (LGU) kag Municipal Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (MDRRMO).
Nagdangat man sa 213 ka mga fisherfolk ukon mga manugpangisda ang naapektuhan bangud nagkalaguba ang ila mga bangka.
Sa 216 ka mga motor bangka nga nagkalaguba, 172 ang partially damaged samtang 44 ang totally damaged.
Magluwas sa mga motor bangka, may yara man sang mga cottages nga naapektuhan kag ang iban totally damaged.
Ginatinguhaan naman sang PCG nga makipag-angot sa Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) kag sa LGU sang lugar agud matagaan sang bulig ang mga naapektuhan.
Scammers, nagagamit sang ngalan sang kapulisan agud mang-scam
Ginkumpirma sang Iloilo Provincial Police Office nga may mga scammer nga nagagamit sang pangalan sang mga hepe sang kapulisan sa probinsya.
Rolando Araño, Spokesperson sang Iloilo Provincial Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga nalakip sa mga pangalan sang hepe amo sanday Police Captain General Enrique Robles sang Leganes kag Police Lieutenant Cosmeflor Marco, Jr.
Araño, ang target sang mga nasambit nga scammers amo ang mga small establishments kaangay sang mga pharmacy.
Ang ila modus sa pag-scam amo nga nagatawag ang mga ini sa mga botika gamit ang mga pangalan sang hepe agud nga makakuha sang mga bulong.
Kasunod sini, ginmando na ni Iloilo Provincial Police Office Director Police Colonel Bayani Razalan nga magpatigayon sang inspection sa mga gagmay nga mga establisyamento ilabi na sa mga botika agud nga mapaandaman ang mga ini sang mga nagakadapat nga mga ubrahon sa mga kaangay nga mga insidente.
Sa subong, padayun pa ang imbestigasyon sa nasambit nga scamming incident kag nagpaandam man ang kapulisan nga manabat gid sa layi ang mga scammers.
ATOP, nagpnawagan sa mga taxi operators nga striktohan ang ila nga mga drivers
Nagpanawagan ang Association of Taxi Operators of Panay sa mga taxi operators nga tutukan kag istriktohan sini ang ila nga mga driver.
Ini kasunod sang pagpostibo sang isa ka taxi driver sa ginpatigayon nga surprise drug test sang Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency Region 6.
Nagpositibo man sa confirmatory test ang amo nga driver.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Perfecto Yap, president sang ATOP, iya ginpahayag nga kinahanglan nga ma-monitor sang mga taxi operators ang ila nga mga driver bangud nga sa ila nakadepende ang safety sang ila nga mga pasahero.
Suno pa sa iya nga nakibot siya sang naglab-ot sa iya ang impormasyon nga may ara sang nagpostibo nga driver bangud nga suno man sa iya, wala sila nagkulang sa pagpahanumdom sa mga ini nga indi mag-engage sa mga illegal nga mga buluhaton.
Ini matapos nga naguba ang mga tiles kag nagbulwak ang tubig halin sa drainage line kasunod sang mamunog nga ulan sang nagligad nga Byernes sang hapon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maricel Mabaquiao, Local Economic Enterprise Office Head, iya ginpahayag nga mas maayo nga aga pa nakit-an ang leakage sa nasambit nga merkado agud nga gilayon na ini nga masolusyunan.
Sa mga produkto, may ara sang estimated damages nga naga balor masobra sa P140, 000 apang wala pa ini ma-finalize sang LEEO bangud nga pagabatunon palang nila ang report halin sa market in-charge kun pila gid ang mga na-damage ukon nabasa nga mga produkto.
Nagpasalig man si Mabaquiao nga 100% sa mga nagkalaguba nga produkto ang pagabayaran sang SM Prime.
Joint inspection ginpatigayon sang mga awtoridad sa Central Market
Content creator nga si Small Laude, ginpanginwala ang pagkadalahig sang iya bana nga si Philip Laude sa flood control nga ginaangot kay Edvic Yap
Ginpanginwala sang content creator nga si Small Laude ang pagkadalahig sang iya bana nga si Philip Laude sa mga illegal nga buluhaton sa kwarta sang gobyerno.
Ini matapos nga naangot ang bana ni Small sa isa ka kontrobersyal nga bank account partnership kay Rep.
Paagi sa ila abogado, gin-athag sini sa publiko nga wala sang korporasyon nga natukod sa tunga ni Laude kag Yap.
Gin-athag man sini sa publiko nga ang account nga ginbuksan nila sang una sa ila pag-partnership isa ka transaksyon may kaangtanan sa ila negosyo apang indi iini sa ka irregularidad.
Sang damlag lang, ginpahayag ni President Ferdinad Marcos nga ginsugo sini ang Court of Appeals nga i-freeze ang halos 300 tanan nga bank account pati na ang iban pa nga assert may kaangtanan sa iskandalo sa flood control kag ang iban sini ang ginpanag-iyahan ni Yap kag ang utod sini nga si Eric.
Kabahin man sa imbestigasyon ang 22 ka insurance policy kag iban pa nga nagkalai-lain nga ginpanag-iyahan ni Eric kag Edvic Yap.
BJMP, ginpasangkad ang seguridad ni Sara Discaya, para sa nakatalana sini nga hearing
Ginpasangkad sang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP), ang seguridad sang kontrobersyal nga contractor nga si Sara Discaya, para sa nakatalana sini nga hearing sa Lunes.
Suno kay Jail Chief Inspector Ivy Christine Manigos, warden sang female dormitory sa Lapu-Lapu City Jail, ipinatuman na ang angay nga seguridad para sa kaluwasan ni Discaya kag sa iya mahilway nga pagbiyahe padulong sa korte, pananglitan nga magsugot ini nga magtambong sa korte sang personal.
Nagdugang naman ang BJMP Regional Office 7 sang Special Tactics and Response Team kag nakigkoordinar sa Philippine National Police para sa dugang nga suporta sa posibilidad sang transportasyon ni Discaya.
Sa matandaan, kaupod si Discaya sa walo ka empleyado sang Department of Public works and Highways (DPWH) nga naka-detain sa Cebu sa karun, bangud sa pagkaulamit sini sa ginapahayag “ghost project” sa Davao Occidental.
Gintawag ni Miss Universe co-owner Raul Rocha nga “delusional” si anay Ilocos Sur governor Chavit Singson, matapos nga nagbuya si Singson sang pahayag nga indi na si Rocha kag Anne Jakrajutatip ang nagapanag-iya sang Miss Universe Organization.
Sa isa ka opisyal nga pahayag, ginpaathag sang Miss Universe Organization nga wala sang pagbag-o sa pagpanag-iya kag pagpamuno sang nasambit nga organization, kag ginakabig nga mga “sala” kag “pagpatalang” lamang nga impormasyon ang mga ginapalapta ni Singson.
Dugang pa sang organisasyon nga indi nila pagpalampason ang sahi nga buluhaton, kag magapatigayon ang mga ini sang legal nga tikang agud mapangapinan ang ila pangalan kag reputasyon.
Ginpanugyan man sang Miss Universe Organization ang publiko nga magsalig lamang sa ila opisyal nga mga pahayag kag plataporma para sa husto kag beripikado nga impormasyon.
Drainage system nga naguba sang nagligad nga adlaw sa Iloilo Central Market bangud sa mamunog nga pag-ulan, nakay-o na
Naka-ayo na ang drainage system nga naguba sang nagligad nga adlaw sa Iloilo Central Market bangud sa mamunog nga pag-ulan kag nagbulwak ang tubig sa merkado.
Ginabulubanta nagdangat naman sa kapin ₱200,000 ang ginbilin nga halit sang pagdanaw sang tubig sa isa ka shop sang native products sa lugar nga malapit sa drainage.
Sa interview sang Bomba Radyo kay Alyas Prince, tag iya sang native products, iya ginpahayag nga apektado gid ang ila palangabuhianbangud wala sila nag-exppektar nga matabo ina sa newly developed Iloilo Central Market.
Suno sa iya nabasa gid ang ila mga produkto kaangay sang banig, floral foam, duyan sang lapsag kag mga kalo.
Ginpahayag pa sini nga masakit sa ila ang natabo bangud kalabanan sa ila nga produkto ang indi na mapuslan kun basa na sang tubig.
Dugang pa niya nga dako ang ila kapital sa amo nga produkto.
Ginpahayag man sini nga magahatg sang bulig ang talatapan sang Central market kag ire-fund ang tanan nga mga nadamage nga produkto.
Nagapadayon man sa gihapon ang mga stall owner sa lugar sang pagpanghimos sang ila mga product.
Sa karon ginaseparar na nila ang mga produkto nila nga nabasa kag waala mabasa agud nga kon ngitaa sila sang pamatuod para sa refund nga igahatag ag ang ma refund may ipakita sila nga damage sang mga nabasa.
Kaso sang fireworks-related injuries (FWRI) sa tuig 2025 sa probinsya sang Iloilo, nagnubo kun ikumpara sa tuig 2024
Nagnubo sang 34% ang kaso sang fireworks-related injuries (FWRI) sa tuig 2025 sa probinsya sang Iloilo kun ikumpara sa tuig 2024.
Rodney Labis, Chief sang Health Service Delivery Division sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office (IPHO) iya ginpahayag nga may 28 ka bag-o nga kaso nga narekord halin New Year’s Eve tubtob nga una ka adlaw sang Enero,
Samtang 52 ka kaso naman ang narekord humalin December 21 tubtob sa katapusan sang tuig.
Sa kabug-usan, 27 ka banwa sa probinsya sang Iloilo ang may narekord nga mga kaso.
Pinakadamo nga kaso ang narekord sa Sara nga may ara sang 5 ka kaso, samtang 4 ka kaso ang narekord sa Sta.
Base sa regional data, ang pinakadamo nga biktima sang FWRI amo ang naga-edad 10–19 anyos, kag kalabanan ang mga lalaki.
Ginpahayag man nga illegal nga boga kag kamara ang ginhalinan sang kadam-an nga mga injury.
Ginpahanumdom sang IPHO nga posible pa nga madugangan ang ini nga mga kaso bangud sa Enero 6 pa matapos ang surveillance period.
Nagpasalamat naman ang Provincial Government sang Iloilo sa tanan nga nagsuporta sa kampanya nga “Iwas Paputok”, nga ginakabig nga isa sa mga rason sa pagnubo sang kaso sang fireworks-related injuries sa probinsya.
Special Investigation Team sa kamatayon ni Iloilo Dueñas Vice Mayor Lamasan, nagapadayon ang follow-up investigation
Nagapadayon ang follow-up investigation sang Special Investigation Team sa kamatayon ni Iloilo Dueñas Vice Mayor Aimee Paz Lamasan.
Shiela Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang Iloilo City Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga nag-rekomenda ang ICPO sa pagtukod sang Special Investigation Team Lamasan agud magbinuligay ang mga concerned units sa pag-imbestigar sang natabo.
Ginatutokan man sang Iloilo City Police Station 2 ang alegasyon sang accidental firing, apang ginatipon sang ICPO ang tanan nga impormasyon nga posible makabulig sa imbestigasyon sa insidente.
May ara sang forensic procedure nga ginahulat kag ginafollow-up.
Magluwas sa pagtukod sang SIT, nag-request man ang ICPO sang pagpaidalom sa ballistic examination sang armas nga gingamit.
Dugang pa diri nagpangayo sang voluntary consent sa live-in partner ni Lamasan para sa paraffin test, pinaagi sa abogado sini.
May ara man sang request para sa kopya sang CCTV footage sa puluy-an sang biktima, nga dako gid ang mabulig sa imbestigasyon.
Sangrines, ang request para sa pagtukod sang SIT ginpadala na sa PRO6, kag ginahulat ang kopya sang order, pero padayon na ang kooperasyon sang mga pulis.
Kim Legada, Director sang Iloilo City Police Office ang issuance sang order, kag ginapangunahan niya ang imbestigasyon.
Ginapahayag man sang Police Regional Office VI ang pagpangabay sa publiko nga indi magpalapta sang mga espekulasyon sa kamatayon ni Lamasan.
Ginpasalig nila nga ang tanan nga lead sa insidente ginatutukan, kag prayoridad ang kalidad sang imbestigasyon base sa nakuha nga mga ebidensya.
Ang pamilya sang biktima ang nagakooperar man sa padayon nga imbestigasyon, suno sa kapulisan.
Problema sa naguba nga elevator sa newly developed nga Iloilo Central Market, napalab-ot na sa LEEO
Naguba ini kadungan man sa mamunog nga pag-ulan kahapon nga adlaw.
Suno sa mga vendors, nagapangayo sila sang bulig bangud wala sila nakapangaman sa natabo nga pagkaguba sang elevator.
Mabudlay man ini para sa ila ang magpasaka sang mga produkto padulong sa ikatatlo nga panalgan bangud wala naga-function ang elevator.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maricel Mabaquiao, head sang Local Economic Enterprise Office (LEEO), iya ginpahayag nga gin-address na sang management ang problema kag ginhimuan na sang report nga igapasa sa SM.
Suno sa iya, may ara sang 100 percent refund para sa mga apektado nga parte sang merkado.
Ginpahayag man sini nga maayo nga timprano pa lang nahibaluan na ang isyu para ma-address ang problema.
Dugang pa ni Mabaquiao nga magahatag sila sang assistance sa mga apektado nga vendors, ilabi na ang mga nabasa ang produkto nga bugas bangud sa tubig nga halin sa drainage.
Sa subong, nagaresponde na ang contractor para sa pagpakay-o sang mga naguba, kag ginpasalig nga ma-address ini gilayon.
Sa Lunes, magahiwat sang walk-through inspection kag imbestigasyon upod ang city engineers.
Nahibaluan man nga kahapon nga adlaw nagkalabuka ang mga tiles malapit sa entrance sang Iloilo Central Market matapos magbulwak ang tubig halin sa naglupok nga drainage.
Anak sang Ilongga OFW sa Abu Dhabi, U.A.E, nagpasalamat sa Bombo Radyo kag kay Representative ”Jamjam” Baronda
Nagpasalamat sa Bombo Radyo kag kay Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jamjam” Baronda ang anak sang Ilongga nga overseas Filipino worker (OFW) sa Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Ini bangud nga may kumpirmasyon na nga dal-on ang bangkay sini pauli sa Pilipinas.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay “Alyas Boy”, iya ginpahayag nga nakontak na sila sang Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) sa Abu Dhabi kag sa Region 6 para sa pagproseso sang pagpauli sa bangkay sang iya iloy.
Ini matapos nga mabaton sang Embahada sang Pilipinas ang sulat nga naga-request sa mga kinahanglanon sa pagpauli sang iya iloy.
Suno kay Alyas Boy, may ara sang working visa ang iya iloy, gani natigayon nga ma-resolbar kag napamatud-an man nga indi ini TNT sa Abu Dhabi.
Ginpahayag man ni Alyas Boy nga sang una nagapati ini nga may ara sang foul play nga natabo sa kamatayon sang iya iloy, apang sa iya pagpakig-angut sini sa mga kaabyanan sang iya iloy, nahibaluan sini nga may ara ini sang problema.
Suno pa kay ”Alyas Boy”, nagaproblema sa pinansyal ang iya iloy kag amo man ang madali nalang nga expiration sang iya visa.
Magluwas nga madamo ini sang galastuhan kag kinahanglan nga suportahan, ginpahayag man nga may ara man sang mga kautangan ang ila pamilya.
Lapta-lapta nga pag-ulan, ma-eksperyensyahan sa Visayas subong nga weekend
Lauman ang magal-umon nga tyempo nga may lapta-lapta nga pag-ulan kag isolated thunderstorms sa Visayas bangud sa epekto sang shearline.
Suno pa sa state weather bureau subong nga aga, magadala naman sang pag-ulan ang northeast monsoon ukon amihan sa Cordillera Administrative Region, Cagayan Valley, Aurora, Quezon, nabilin nga bahin sang MIMAROPA, kag nabilin nga bahin sang Bicol Region.
Magadala man ang Amihan sang magal-umon nga tyempo kag pagpanalithi sa Metro Manila kag sa nabilin nga bahin sang Luzon.
Nagpaandam ang bureau sang posible matabo nga landslides ukon flash floods bangud sang nasambit nga shearline kag amihan.
Sa pihak nga bahin, maga-apekto naman ang easterlies kag magaresulta sa lapta-lapta nga pag-ulan kag thunderstorms sa Mindanao.
Ginklaro sang weather bureau nga wala ini sang na-monitor nga low-pressure area ukon tropical cyclone sa guwa kag sulod sang Philippine area of responsibility as of broadcast time.
OWWA, gina-asikaso na ang pag-repatriate sa bangkay sang Ilongga OFW nga napatay sa Abu Dhabi
Ginkumpirma sang embahada sang Pilipinas nga nakaabot na sa Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) ang kaso sang isa ka Ilongga overseas Filipino worker (OFW) nga ginaalegar nga nag-utas sang iya kabuhi sa Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Lakip ini sa kaundan sang sabat ni Philippine Ambassador to the UAE Alfonso Ver sa sulat nga ginpadala ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jamjam” Baronda.
Suno sa embahada, nagahulat ang OWWA nga makaguwa ang death notification halin sa central mortuary para sa Ilongga OFW nga si Mary Jill Dela Cerna Muya, tumandok sang Jaro, Iloilo City.
Ginpahayag man sang embahada nga nagpakig-angot na ang OWWA sa pamilya para sa madasig nga pagpapauli sa bangkay sang biktima.
Nahibaluan nga nagpadala sang sulat si Baronda sa tiglikom sang Department of Migrant Workers (DMW) sang Enero 1 nga nagahingyo nga buligan ang pamilya, kag agud mapatigayon nga ma-imbestigaran ang kamatayon sang Ilongga.
Una na nga nagdangop ang pamilya sa Bombo Radyo kag nagapanawagan sang bulig nga mapapauli ang bangkay sang ila nga himata.
Nagpahayag ang pamilya nga nagapati sila nga may foul play sa likod sang kamatayon sang Ilongga OFW, ilabi na bangud sang nakit-an ini suno sa ila, may higot ang liog sini apang may busal man ini sa baba, nagadapat ang tiil sa salog, kag may lagob sa kamot.
Gintuad man sang pamilya nga TNT ang status sang Ilongga, ukon wala sang regular nga employer kag pasaylo-saylo ini sang trabaho.
Nakapanugid man ini anay sa iya anak nga may problema ini sa pinansyal — apang nagpahayag ang anak nga kilala niya ang batasan sang iya iloy, kag wala siya nagapati nga mahimo sini ang pag-utas sang iya nga kabuhi.
Lunsay na napasakaan sang kaso ang tatlo ka mga tawo nga na-involve sa indiscriminate firing sa Western Visayas kadungan sang holidays.
Kun pahat-pahaton ang rekord sang talatapan, sa Estancia, isa ka pulis ang na-involve sa insidente sang Disyembre 22.
Isa naman ka biktima ang naiguan sa tiil sa kaso sang pagpalupok sa Pavia sang Disyembre 25; kag sang Disyembre 31 naman, nagpalupok ang suspek sa atubang sang biktima sa sulod sang boardinghouse sa Sta.
Magluwas diri, may duha man ka kaso sang stray bullet incidents sa rehiyon nga ginalakipan sang isa sa Kalibo, Aklan, kag isa sa Mina, Iloilo.
Ini ang 72.84% nga mas manubo ipaanggid sa 232 cases nga na-rekord sang tinalikdan nga tuig kadungan sang selebrasyon sang Paskwa kag pagsug-alaw sang Bag-ong Tuig.#
Western Visayas, naka-eksperyensya sang mamunog nga ulan bangud sa shear line
Apektado sang nanuhay-tuhay nga weather systems ang madamo nga parte sang Pilipinas subong nga adlaw, Enero 2, nga nagdala sang mga pag-ulan-ulan kag mga pagbaha.
Suno sa Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA), may pag-ulan-ulan kag pagpanaguob sa Western Visayas amo man sa Albay, Sorsogon, Masbate, Romblon, Palawan, kag Northern Samar bangud sa shear line.
Nagpaandam man ang state weather bureau sang posible nga flash floods ukon pagkatiphag sang duta ilabi na sa manubo nga areas kag sa nabukid man nga mga porsyon bangud sang kasarangan tubtub mamunog nga ulan.
Sa syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo, nag-umpisa ang mabaskog nga bubo sang ulan pasado alas tres subong nga hapon.
Sa iban nga areas sa pungsod, nagaapekto ang easterlies amo man ang northeast monsoon ukon ang amihan.
Ginklaro sang weather bureau nga wala ini sang na-monitor nga low-pressure area ukon tropical cyclone sa guwa kag sulod sang Philippine area of responsibility (PAR) as of posting time.
‘Hidilyn, my friend!’ Netizens, napa-‘sana all’ liwat sa lifetime supply sang free fuel para kay Hidilyn Diaz
Madamo na ang luyag mangin paryente sang Filipina weightlifter nga si Hidilyn Diaz — indi lang bangud sa maragtason nga gold medal sini nga nadag-an sa Olympics, kundi bangud sa iya premyo nga lifetime supply sang libre nga gatong.
Sang Tokyo Games 2020 pa sang nadag-an ni Diaz ang bulawan nga medalya, apang nadumduman subong ang iya insentibo kag madamo ang nag-share bangud sang pagtimbuok sa presyo sang gatong sa Pilipinas nga epekto sang giyera sa Middle East.
Si Diaz amo ang una nga nakakuha sang gold medal sa Pilipinas matapos ang 97-anyos nga paghulat sang pungsod sa maragtas sang Olympiada.
Nagbubo ang incentives sa iya sang amo nga tion.
Magluwas sa cash, may yara sang perks kag mga pribilehiyo nga ginhatag ang madamo nga mga brand.
Lakip diri ang isa ka kumpaniya sang langis nga naghatag sang P5-million nga reward kag bilog nga kabuhi nga suplay sang libre nga gatong.
Napa-throwback ang mga Pinoy ilabi na nga subong nga adlaw, Marso 10, ang una nga adlaw sang pagpatuman sang staggered ukon pahat-pahat lang nga big-time oil price hike.
Hidilyn Diaz na yata ang pinaka-maswerteng tao ngayon, lifetime free fuel ba naman,” pahayag sang isa ka Facebook page.
“Mareng Hidilyn Diaz, naalala mo nung mga bata pa tayo?
Ako ‘yung nagbigay sa’yo ng chichirya sa klase natin noon.
Kumusta ka na, classmate?” lahog naman sang isa ka Facebook user.
“Hidilyn, my friend!” sabat naman sang isa ka Redditor.
Mangin ang Olympic champion ang naglahog man sang nadumduman sini ang iya incentive.
“PUWEDE KAYANG I-CLAIM ITO — sa panahon ngayon?” pahayag sini sa iya nga Instagram Story sang Lunes, Marso 9.
Nahibaluan nga dungan nga nagpatuman ang major oil firms sang pagsaka-presyo sa gasolina, diesel, kag kerosene bangud sang disruptions sa suplay kasunod sang away sang Israel kag US batok sa Iran nga naglapta na sa Middle East.#
Isa ka propesor, nagapati nga dako sa gihapon ang papel sang radyo
Nagapati ang isa ka propesor nga dako sa gihapon ang papel sang radyo sa publiko sa idalom sang digital era.
Shiela Mae Quero, Broadcasting Division Chair sang College of Communication sa West Visayas State University, iya ginpahayag nga importante ang radyo ilabi na sa mga lokal nga komunidad bangud ini amo ang numero uno nga ginahalinan kag nagapalab-ot sa ila sang balita.
Suno kay Quero, isa sa mga ginapangatubang nga threat sang radyo amo ang makabag-o nga teknolohiya, apang nagapati man ini nga dako man ang mabulig sini ilabi na sa pag-adoptar sang radyo sa social media platforms nga makabulig gid sa pagpalapnag sang insakto nga mga impormasyon.
Ginpakigbahin man niya nga isa man sa ila nga problema sa institusyon nga nagahatag sang media related course nga magamay nalang ang nagasulod nga mga studyante sa kurso nga Broadcasting.
Nagapati man si Quero nga indi madula ang radyo ilabi na kun padayun ang inobasyon kag mangin bukas ang industriya sa panibag-o nga mga teknolohiya.
Dugang pa sang propesor nga kinahanglan gid nga padayunon sang mga estasyon ang insakto nga pagbalita agud nga padayun man ini nga pamatian sang publiko.
Squad Notes, ginapatuman sa mga suldado agud ma-monitor ang ila kahimtangan
Isa sa mga ginapatuman nga pamaagi sang 3rd Infantry Division (3ID), Philippine Army agud ma-monitor ang kahimtangan sang ila mga kasuldadohan amo ang ginatawag nga “Squad Notes.”
Ang “Squad Notes” amo ang isa ka journal kun sa diin ginapasulat ang kada suldado sang ila mga ginabatyag, ukon personal nga problema ilabi na sa ila man nga kaupod nga mga soldado.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Captain Jessie Jun Ebalan, Chief sang Division Public Affairs Office sang 3ID, ginpahayag sini nga ginalantaw kag ginabasa sang mga senior Non-Commissioned Officers (NCO) ang nasambit nga mga journal agud ma-monitor ang ila kahimtangan, lakip na ang ila mental, emosyonal kag panglawas nga estado.
Paagi man sini, mahibaluan kun may yara sang indi pag-intindihanay ukon hiligut-anon sa tunga sang mga suldado agud nga masolbar ini gilayon.
Ebalan, ginapatawag gilayon kag ginapaidalum sa counselling ang mga suldado kun mahibaluan nga may ginabatyag ukon may problema agud mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga bulig kag suporta.
Base sa man sa squad notes, ginakabig sang 3rd ID, PA nga isolated case ang natabo nga insidente sang Pebrero 9, 2026, bangud wala man sang nakita nga lainay sang buot sa duha ka involved nga mga indibidwal kun sa diin aksidente nga natiruhan sang isa ka suldado ang iya kaupod nga gintunaan sang kamatayon sini.
Ginapasiguro sang dibisyon nga indi na ini maliwat kag himuon ang tanan nga tikang agud malikawan ang kaangay nga insidente.
Lalaki, gin-utod ang tiil para makapasar sa med school
Siling nila, kun handom mo gid nga malab-ot ang isa ka butang, masarangan mo himuon ang tanan.
Isa siguro ka konkreto nga halimbawa diri ang isa ka lalaki sa India nga bangud sa iya pagka-desperado nga matuman ang iya handom nga mangin doktor, nasarangan sini nga magpautod sang tiil.
Ang ginatumod nga lalaki amo si Suraj Bhaskar, 20-anyos, taga- Uttar Pradesh, India.
Base sa impormasyon, duha ka beses nga wala nakapasar si Suraj sa entrance exam sa medical school.
Bangud sini, napaminsaran niya nga hingalitan ang layi nga nagahatag sang slots para sa mga PWDs apang kinahanglan gihapon nga makapasar sa minimum requirements.
Ginpahayag nga naghimo-himo sang istorya ang pamilya ni Suraj nga ginlabo ini apang duda ang mga pulis bangud malimpyo ang hiwa sa iya tiil.
Sa maid-id nga imbestigasyon, kumbinsido ang mga pulis nga hungod nga ginpautod ni Suraj ang iya tiil.
Sa baylo naman nga mahatagan kuntani sang disability certificate para makasulod sa med school, mangatubang ini sang mga kaso kag magaresulta sa pagkaguba sang iya handom nga mangin doktor.
Gintumba sang Golden State Warriors ang Phoenix Suns sa bulig sang 4th-quarter comeback sa score nga 101-97.
Nahimo ini sang Warriors sa pihak sang wala paghampang ni NBA superstar nga si Stephen Curry samtang nagapabilin man nga injured si Jimmy Butler.
Nanguna sa pagkadaog ang Warriors guard nga si De’Anthony Melton nga nakakuha sang 17 points, duwa ka rebounds kag tatlo nga steal, dala na diri ang lima ka cluth points sa katapusan sang quarter sang hampang.
Apisar nga abanse ang Suns sa katapusan sang ikatatlo nga kwarter, nahimo sang Golden State Warriors nga limitahan ang koponan sang 15 points sa bilog nga 4th quarter.
Nauyatan pa sang Suns ang 3 point lead, antes ang isa ka minuto bag-o matapos ang hampang apang ginlagas ini sang GS kag ginposte ang 4-point lead sa pagtapos sang regulation.
Nagawa ito ng Warriors sa kabila ng hindi paglalaro ni NBA superstar Stephen Curry habang nananatili ring injured si Jimmy Butler, ang 2nd scorer ng naturang koponan.
Ginakaptan subong sang GS ang 28-24 win-loss record samtang 31-21 naman ang koponan sang Suns.
44 sa kada 1,000 ka mga Pilipino, wala sang obra sang Disyembre 2025
Nakarecord sang gamay nga pagsaka sang porsyento ang Labor Force Survey sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) sa mga Pilipino nga wala sang obra ukon ila nga palangabuhian sang nagligad nga Disyembre 2025.
Sa pahayag ni National Statistician kag PSA Chief Claire Dennis Mapa, ang mga indibidwal 15-anyos pataas nga wala sang obra amo ang nagsaka sa 2.26 million halin sa 2.25 million sang Nobyembre 2025.
Mas mataas ini kun ikumpara sa 1.63 Million nga narekord sang Disyembre 2024.
Ini amo ang may ara sang unemployment rate nga 4.4% kaangay sang Nobyembre 2025 kun sa diin mataas ini kun ikumpara sa 3.1% sang Disyembre 2024.
Ini amo ang nagasiling nga 44 sa kada 1,000 ka mga indibidwal ang wala sing obra sa amo nga tion.
ICC, nagdeklarar nga ‘fit to participarte’ si anay Pres.
Nagdeklarar ang International Criminal Court (ICC) Pre-Trial Chamber 1 nga fit si former President Rodrigo Duterte nga magpadayon para sa pre-trial proceedings sa gina-atubang sini nga kaso nga crimes against humanity.
Sa ginpaguwa nga 25 ka pahina nga desisyon, ginbasura sang ICC ang request sang kampo ni Duterte para sa indefinite adjournment sang kaso.
Gin-schedule man sang chamber ang pag-umpisa sang confirmation of charges hearing sa Pebrero 23, 2026.
Matandaan nga may panel sang medical experts nga nag-check sa ikaayong lawas sang anay presidente matapos nga gin-alegar sang kampo sini nga malipaton na si Duterte kag indi na makadumdom sang mga hitabo, mga petsa, kag mangin sa iya pamilya.
Una naman nga ginbasura sang korte ang ila request para sa interim release.
Marso 11, 2025 sang gindakop si Duterte kag gindala sa The Hague, Netherlands bangud sa kaso nga nag-ugat sa kontrobersyal sini nga drug war.
Babaye, dungan nga ginhimo nobyo ang kapid nga mag-utod
Ginaistoryahan sa Thai social media ang 24-anyos nga si Nong Fah matapos nag-ako ini nga gindungan niya nobyohon ang kapid nga mag-utod nga sanday Sing kag Suea.
Nakilala niya ang kapid sa restaurant nga iya ginaubrahan bilang waitress.
Isa ka adlaw, nagkaon ang kapid sa restaurant kag ginsunlog ini nga ihatag ang iya phone number sa mag-utod.
Bangud ginhatag niya ini, nagpadala man sang mensahe ang duha ka kapid.
Didto na nahulog ang buot niya sa mag-utod kag amo man ang nabatyagan sang duha ka kapid sa iya.
Suno kay Fah, wala man sang nagakatabo nga pagpangimon sa tunga sang mag-utod kag nabaton man nila ang sitwasyon bangud pareho nila nga palangga ang dalaga.
Sa subong, kapin anom ka bulan na sila nga nagaupdanay sa balay nga ginatiniran ni Fah.
Sa pihak sang mga kritisismo halin sa netizens, wala na lang ginasapak ini sang tatlo.
Misis, ginkasuhan ang bana matapos nadiskubre nga kalbo kag naga-wig lang
Ginkasuhan sang isa ka asawa ang iya nga bana matapos nadiskubre nga kalbo ini kag wig lang ang iya buhok.
Suno sa tagreklamo nga si Lavika Gupta sang Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India, gin-into siya sang iya bana nga si Sanyam Jain kag pamilya sini bangud wala siya ginpahibalo nga kalbo ini antes ang ila kasal sang Enero 2024.
Pahayag ni Lavika, sang yara pa lang sila sadto sa “matchmaking stage”, ginpromisa sa iya ang isa ka lalaki nga manami ang buhok apang ulihi na niya nadiskubre nga kalbo ini.
Magluwas sa isyu sa buhok, nabuko man ni Gupta nga peke ang credentials sang bana tuhoy sa iya educational background.
Gin-alegar man sang asawa nga ginsakit siya sang iya bana kag ginpilit nga magpalusot sang marijuana halin sa Thailand pabalik sa India.
Sa subong, desidido ang asawa nga ipapreso ang bana samtang wala pa sang pamatbat nga gindagdag ang korte.
Dueñas Vice Mayor Lamasan, Nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na si Duenas Vice Mayor Aimee Paz Lamasan matapos ginpahayag nga aksidente nga natiruhan sini ang iya kaugalingon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Pangga Lamasan Piccio, Former Vice Mayor sang Duenas kag tiya sang bise alcalde, ginkumpirar sini ang kamatayon ni Lamasan kun sa diin tuman gid ang kasubo nga ila nabatyagan sang nagtaliwan ang nasambit nga bise alcalde.
Madumduman nga natabo ang insidente sang Disyembre 30 samtang ginabutang ni Lamasan ang pusil sa iya nga bag, apang gulpi lang ini nga naglupok rason nga naigo ang iya tiyan.
Dayun man ini nga gindala sa ospital kag nagpaidalom sa operasyon.
Liwat pa ini nga nagpaidalom sa ikaduha nga operasyon kun sa diin wala na ini masarangan sang iya nga lawas, rason sang iya kamatayon.
Nagapasalamat man si Former Dueñas Vice Mayor Piccio sa mga tawo padayun nga nagasuporta kag nagapalangga kay Duenas Vice Mayor Lamasan.
Lalaki, gintulon ang ginkawat nga kulintas balor ₱1M; pulis, ginhulat gid ini nga magpamuhin
Nabawi sang kapulisan ang kulintas nga ginkawat sang isa ka lalaki bisan pa nga gintulon niya ini.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagsulod ang suspek sa baligyaan sang alahas kag gin-akusahan ini nga nagkuha sang Fabergé James Bond Octopussy Egg pendant kag gintulon gilayon.
Sang nagresponde ang mga pulis, ginpaidalom ini sa medical assessment.
Didto na ini ginhulat nga magpamuhin agud mapagwa ang kulintas sa iya lawas.
Nangin positibo naman ang resulta bangud nag-upod sa iya higko ang Fabergé locket nga nagabalor sang kapin US$33,500 ukon yara sa ₱1,115,946.
Igabalik naman ang pendant sa jewelry store matapos ang mga ginakinahanglan nga proseso.
Nag-atubang na sa korte ang akusado kag wala na nag-apelar sang plea sa kaso nga theft batok sa iya.
Isa ka babayi sa Japan, ginpakaslan ang isa ka AI-generated persona
Ginpakaslan sang isa ka babaye nga si Yurina Noguchi ang isa ka AI-generated persona nga iya ginhingadlan nga “Klaus” sa ginpatigayon nga seremonya sa western Japan.
Nagsuksok sang puti nga Wedding gown kag tiara si Noguchi samtang nagatukar ang musika sa wedding hall, kag indi niya matago ang iya emosyon samtang nagalakat padulong sa nahamtangan ni Klaus nga ginapakita sa smartphone screen.
Nangin emosyonal si Noguchi sa pagpakigbahin sang iya nga wedding vow, kun sa diin iya ginpahayag nga ang iya relasyon sa AI indi isa ka “mahapos nga relasyon.”
Suno sa iya, ginpili niya si Klaus indi bilang paagi sa paglikaw sa realidad, kundi bilang isa ka persona nga magasuporta sa iya samtang nagakabuhi siya sing husto.
Ang nasambit nga kasal ginakabig nga isa ka tumalagsahon nga hitabo nga nagapakita sang nagabag-o nga kahimtangan sang relasyon sa tunga sang tawo kag teknolohiya.
Kalakip ang mga Pinay sa mga pinaka-aktibo nga nagalantaw sang adult content nga Pornhub subong nga 2025.
Suno ini sa tuigan nga user data sang website gikan sa ila nga “Year in Review” insights.
Santo sa website, ang mga kababainhan halin sa Pilipinas ang nagabug-os sang 64% sang tanan nga nagabisita sa site.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa isa ang Pilipinas sa tatlo ka mga pungsod sa top 20 nga mas madamo ang babaye nga viewers kun ipaanggid sa mga lalaki.
Napabilin naman sang Pilipinas ang puwesto bilang 3rd top country pag-abot sa site traffic, nga mas madugay ang pagtinir sa site subong nga tuig.
Ini ang ginpangunahan sang United States, kag ginsundan sang Mexico.
Nagalawig sang 10 minutos kag 53 segundo ang kalawigon sang pagbisita sa site sang mga tawo sa Pilipinas.
Maskara sa Biometric: Mga empleyado nakakuha sang sweldo bisan absent
Nakibot ang isa ka employer sa Wenzhou City, China matapos matukiban nga ginatunto siya sang iya mga empleyado.
Suno sa report, bisan absent ang iya mga empleyado, nagakatingala ini nga may record sila sa facial recognition system sang kumpanya.
Nadiskubrehan sang employer paagi sa isa ka CCTV footage nga nagagamit sang maskara nga papel nga may nawong sang mga empleyado nga ma-recognize sang ila biometric agud makasweldo apisar wala nagasulod sa trabaho.
Nadakpan sini ang isa niya ka tinawo nga ginapatihan amo ang mastermind sa pagbuhat sang nasambit nga butang.
Tungod sa sini nga buluhaton, madamo sang mga netizens ang nagkondenar sang ila ginbuhat, kag ginrekomenda ang pagsipa sa ila sa trabaho, ilabi na subong nga madamo ang nagapangita sang obra.
Nabitas nga dulunggan sang babaye, gintakod sa iya tiil
Gintakod sa tiil sang isa ka babaye ang nabitas sini nga dulunggan bangud sa isa ka aksidente.
Isa ka adlaw, naaksidente ang nasambit nga babaye sa ginaubrahan sini nga factory sang ginlamon sang makina ang iya buhok nga nagresulta sa pagkagisi sang iya panit sa nawong kag ulo pag pagkabitas sang iya dulunggan.
Bangud sang natabo, ginkinahanglan niya nga magpaidalom sa serye sang reconstructive surgeries.
Suno sa mga doktor, indi gilayon mahimo nga mabalik ang iya dulunggan bangud sa damage sa ugat nga nagasuplay sang dugo.
Apang agud mapataas ang tsansa nga mabalik ang napaksi nga dulunggan, gindesisyunan nga itapik anay ini sa tiil sang babaye.
Ginpili nga sa tiil ini sang babaye itapik bangud ang panit sa area ang manipis kag ang blood vessels diri ang pareho ang kadakuon sa ugat sa dulunggan gani mas mahapos ang transplantation.
Naglab-ot sa 10 ka oras ang una nga operasyon.
Kritikal ang mga una nga adlaw sang transplant apang nangin estable man ang kondisyon sang pasyente.
Sa sulod sang lima ka bulan, ginkinahanglan sang babaye nga magsuksok sang halog nga sapatos kag maglakat sang mahinay agud malikawan ang pressure kag mapabilin ang sirkulasyon sang dugo.
Sang Oktubre, ginpatigayon ang operasyon agud ibalik ang dulunggan sa orihinal sini nga puwesto kag madinalag-on nga nahimo ini sang mga doktor.
Lalaki, nagbyahe sang 900km agud mag-apply sa obra wala nabaton bangud sa iya nawong nga “square”
Nagbyahe sang masobra 900 kilometro ang isa ka lalaki sa pungsod China agud magpangita sang obra, apang wala gid ini mabaton bangud sa porma sang iya nawong nga “square.”
Zhang nga makapila na ka beses magpangita sang obra kag nagaisahanon nga nagatrabaho para sa iya pamilya agud masuportahan ang iya tigulang nga mga ginikanan.
Matapos ini maghalin sa Zhumadian sa Henan Province padulong sa Jiashan County sa Zhejiang, kun sa diin ginbalibaran siya sang kapin sa napulo ka electronics factories apisar pa nga kwalipikado siya sa trabaho nga iya gina-applyan.
Suno kay Zhang, may mga job interviewer nga direkta nga nagsiling nga indi siya angayan bangud sang iya nawong, nga nagahatag sa iya sang kahuy-anan kag sakit sang buot.
Nagapakita lamang ini sang diskriminasyon base sa pisikal nga aspeto sa pagkuha sang empleyado, kun sa diin ginahimo nga basehan ang hitsura imbes nga abilidad kag kaalam sang tawo.
Babaye, ginpahalin sa trabaho bangud tuman ka temprano nga nagasulod sa opisina
Napierde sa kaso ang isa ka empleyada sa Alicante, Spain matapos niya nga ginkasuhan ang iya nga employer bangud sa unfair dismissal.
Ang rason sang pagpahalin sa iya amo ang masami nga pagsulod sa trabaho sang tuman ka aga.
Suno sa report, naandan sang babaye nga magsulod sa opisina sang 6:45 sang aga bisan pa nga 7:30 pa ang iya nga shift.
Ginrason sang kompaniya nga nagresulta ini sa problema bangud wala man ini sang ulubrahon sa amo nga oras.
Ginpaandaman na ini sang 2023, apang ginbalewala niya ini tubtob nga ginpahalin siya sa ubra.
Sa desisyon naman sang korte, nagpabor ini sa employer bangud ang pagpakatig-a sang babaye ang makabig nga “disloyalty,” “breach of trust,” kag “disobedience,” nga bastante nga rason agud kakson ini sa trabaho.
Iloy ni Major Jerome Jacuba sang PH Army, ginpakigbahin ang kabuhi sang iya anak
Emosyonal nga ginpakigbahin sang iloy ni Major Jerome Jacuba, katapo sang Philippine Army kag subong man tumandok sang probinsya sang Guimaras ang masakit nga gin-agyan sang iya anak matapos nga nadulaan sang panulok bangud sa serbisyo sang nalukpan ini sang bomba sa ila engkwentro sa Maguindanao sang 2016.
Sa interview sng Bombo Radyo kay Ma’am Annabelle Jacuba, iloy ni Maj.
Jacub, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ang kakulba kag kasubo sini sang nabaton ang mensahe sa natabo sa iya anak nga abi sadto niya ang wala na sang kabuhi.
Dugang pa sini nga sa kaluoy sang mahal nga makaako, nahatagan ini sang panibag-o nga kahigayuhnan, apang kabaylo naman sini ang pagkadula sang iya panulukan kag ang posisyon sini bilang isa ka suldado.
Apisar sang tanan nga pagtilaw, wala nagsuko si Maj.
Jacuba kag nagpadayon ini sa iya kabuhi kag nagserbe nga inspirasyon para sa mga kauturan nga nagakabuhi nga mag disabilidad.
ang pag-promote kay Jacuba matapos ginhatagan ini sang complete disability discharge (CDD) nagikan sa military kun sa diin sya karun ang chairman sang organisasyon sang mga suldado nga may kasablagan.
Jacuba sa iya iloy bangud apisar dalayon na ini nga indi makakita, nahatagan ini sang kahigayunan ni President Marcos Jr.
Dugang pa sang natungdan nga wala sang paghinulsol sa ila nga mag-iloy sa natabo nga insidete bangud nagapati sila nga ini ang pagbuot sang Diyos.
Lalaki, 30 ka tuig na nga may lighter sa sulod sang tiyan antes ini nadiskubre
Isa ka 67-anyos nga lalaki sa Chengdu, China ang natukiban nga may lighter sa sulod sang iya nga tiyan sa sulod sang 30 ka tuig.
Suno sa report, sang dekada 90, gintulon ni Deng ang lighter bilang kabahin sang “dare” sang iya mga abyan.
Matapos ang insidente, gindumdom niya nga napagwa man niya ini sa iya higko sa tion nga siya ang magpamuhin gani wala ini nanugid sa iya pamilya.
Tubtob nga nag-eksperyensiya ini sang tuman nga pagsakit sang tiyan.
Didto na ini kag gindala sa doctor kag natukiban nga yara pa ang lighter.
Ginpaidalom ini sa operasyon agud makuha ang lighter gikan sa tiyan.
Matapos makuha, ginkakibot nila nga sarang pa magsiga ang lighter.
Paathag sang mga eksperto, human sa mapag-on nga plastik (polypropylene o ABS) ang casing sang lighter gani wala ini natunaw sang stomach acid sa sulod sang tatlo ka dekada.
Lalaki, nagpakuno-kuno nga bulag sa lima ka dekada para makabaton sang disability benefits
Ginpasakaaan sang aso ang isa ka 70-anyos nga lalaki sa Italya matapos madiskubre nga nagpakuno-kuno siya nga bulag sa sulod sang 53 anyos agud padayon nga makabaton sang kapin €1 milyon (₱66 milyon) nga benepisyo halin sa gobyerno.
Suno sa report sang otoridad, nagsugod ang pagpanginto sang lalaki matapos nga gindeklarar nga “bulag” ini bangud sa isa ka insidente sa trabaho.
Humalin sadto, regular siya nga nakabaton sang disability payments.
Apang namutikan sang otoridad ang makaduluda nga impormasyon sa ila nga cross-checking system, gani ginpaidalom ini sa surveillance operation.
Paagi sa video recordings, nakita ang lalaki nga nagalagaw, nagaubra sa gwa sang ila balay nga kaangay nga makakita gid ini.
Matapos nakatipon sang mga ebidensya, ginpasaka ang kaso nga fraud batok sa iya.
Bilang resulta sang imbestigasyon, gilayon nga ginsuspinde ang tanan nga benepisyo sini sa social security kag welfare.
Ginpaidalom man siya sa tax audit, kun sa diin nakumpirma ang masobra €200,000 (₱13 milyon) nga ilegal nga kita sa nakaligad nga lima ka tuig nga amo ang panahon nga mahimo pa nga i-assess sa idalom sang layi.
Lalaki, wala ginbalik ang nagtalang sa iya nga P4.9M nga sweldo sang mga upod sa ubra
Isa ka factory worker sa Khanty-Mansiysk, Russia, ang ginkasuhan sang iya nga kumpanya matapos namalibad nga ibalik ang masobra ₱4.9 milyon (7 milyon rubles ukon $87,000) nga aksidente nga napadala sa iya nga bank account bangud sa software glitch.
Ginkilala ini nga si Vladimir Rychagov, nga nakabaton sang 7.1 milyon nga rubles magluwas pa sa iya nga 46,954 rubles nga vacation pay.
Suno kay Rychagov, may mga istorya sadto sa ilanga pabrika angot sa “13th month bonus,” gani gindumdom niya nga kabahin ini sang amo nga benepisyo.
Apang makaligad ang pila ka adlaw, gintawagan siya sang accounting department kag ginhambalan nga nagsala sang padala ang kumpaniya kag dapat ibalik niya ang kwarta.
Apang namalibad si Rychagov kag nanindugan nga may kinamatarung siya sa amo nga kwarta.
Base sa mga dokumento nga gin-file sa korte, ang kwarta nakatigana para sa suweldo sang 34 ka empleyado.
Sa baylo nga ibalik, gin-gamit niya ang kwarta agud magbakal sang salakyan ka iban pa nga propedad.
Sa subong, padayon ang dalagan sang kaso batok kay Rychagov.
Babaye, ginmultahan sang kapin 80K bangud sa iya kuring nga palalagaw
Isa ka 70-anyos nga babae sa Hérault region sang France ang ginmultahan sang €1,250 (katumbas sang ₱83,000) matapos ginreklamo sang iya nga tupadbalay ang masami nga pagkadto sang iya nga kuring sa piyak nga ugsaran.
Suno sa report, nagreklamo ang tupadbalay bangud sa mga marka sang tiil sa dingding, ihi sa habol, kag higko sa hardin nga ginbilin ang kuring ni Dominique nga si Rémi.
Sang Enero, nagdesisyon ang korte pabor sa nagreklamo kag ginpabayad si Dominique sang amo nga kantidad.
Wala pa diri natapos ang kaso bangud liwat na naman nga ginpatawag sa korte si Dominique subong nga Disyembre, matapos liwat nga naglumpat sa piyak nga kudal si Rémi.
Mahimo nga maglab-ot sa €2,000 (₱133,000) ang panibag-o nga multa kay Dominique.
Nurse, ginatublukan sang pampatulog ang iya mga pasyente agud mapahapos ang iya duty
Isa ka 44-anyos nga lalaki nga nurse sa isa ka ospital sa Wuerselen, Germany, ang ginpamatbatan sang life imprisonment nga wala sang parole matapos mapamatud-an nga nagpatay sang indi magnubo sa 10 ka pasyente kag pagtuyo nga patyon man ang 27 ka iban pa sa tunga-tunga sang Disyembre 2023 kag Mayo 2024.
Suno sa mga imbestigador, sekreto nga ginatublukan sang nasambit nga nurse ang mga tigulang nga pasyente sang pampatulog kag painkillers kaangay sang morphine kag midazolam, isa ka muscle relaxant nga ginagamit man sa mga execution sa Estados Unidos.
Katuyuan niya nga mapadasig ang iya nga night shift paagi sa pagpatulog sa mga pasyente.
Sa trial, ginpanindugan sang wala ginpangalanan nga akusado nga luyag lamang niya nga “patulugon ang mga pasyente kag wala siya sang ihibalo nga makamamatay ang iya ginahimo sa ila.
Apang suno sa korte, madugay na nga ginapakita sang nurse nga wala ini sang pag-ulikid sa iya pasyente kag sa iya trabaho.
100 ka magnets, ginkakas sa tyan sang teenager sa New Zealand
Nagpaidalom sa isa ka komplikado nga operasyon ang isa ka 13 anyos nga solterito sa New Zealand matapos nakatulon sang 100 ka mga magnets.
Suno sa report sang mga doctor, ang mga magnet ang ginbakal sang teenager halin sa sikat nga online shopping flatform sa China.
Gindala ang wala ginhingadlan nga solterito sa Tauranga hospital matapos makabatyag sang apat ka adlaw nga palanakit sang tiyan.
Didto kag gin-ako niya nga nakatulon siya sang magagmay nga neodymium magnets.
Ang nasambit nga mga magnet ang hugot nga ginadumili sa New Zealand humalin pa sang Hunyo 2013.
Sa X-ray, Nakita sang mga doctor nga ang mga magnet ang nagdululukot sa sulod sang tiyan sang solterito kag nahimo nga apat ka linya.
Asawa, ginkasuhan ang bana bangud “Chubby” ang ginbutang nga pangalan sini sa iya phonebook
Ginkasuhan sang isa ka asawa ang iya bana kag ginpabayad pa.
Ini matapos nakit-an sang babaye nga “Chubby” ang pangalan sini sa cellphone sang lalaki.
Bangud sini, nagdangop ang asawa sa korte kag ang resulta, ginmanduan ang bana nga magbayad sang material kag moral damages.
Ini nga isyu sang mag-asawa nagtuhaw kadungan sang court proceedings sa ila nga divorce kun sa diin gin-claim sang babaye nga ang nickname niya sa phonebook sang bana ang “degrading” kag “damaging” sa ila marital relationship.
May isa ka mag-asawa sa Guangdong province sa China nga nangin popular bangud pareho ang ila itsura.
Suno pa sa iban, posible nga mag-utod kag nagseparar lang sang una.
Ini amo sanday Liang Caiyu kag He Xiansheng, nagaedad sang masobra 20-anyos.
Nagadumala ang mga ini sang isa ka herbal medicine shop sa Dongguan, Guangdong province.
Sang una, mabudlay para sa ila ang nasambit nga negosyo, apang sang ulihi, gin-gamit nila ang pagkapareho sang ila mga itsura rason nga nagsanyog ang ila shop kag mas nakilala sila nga duwa.
Kuko, ginabaligya para ilakot sa bulong?
Isa ka tumalagsahon nga palangitan-an subong sang mga tawo sa China amo ang pagbaligya nila sang ila kuko nga ginapatihan nga importante nga lakot ini sa traditional Chinese medicine!
Kilala sa tawag nga “jin tui”, ang mga ginpang-utod nga kuko sang tawo ang ginapatihan nga epektibo sa pagkakas sang toxicity sa lawas kag pagkuyom sang mga pilas.
Suno sa sinang-una nga teksto nga medikal nga Qianjin Yaofanf nga ginsulat ni Sun Simiao (581-682), ginagamit ang mga ginpulbos nga kuko kag ginapahid sa dughan sang nagapa-dede nga iloy agud bulungon ang sakit sa tiyan sang lapsag.
Ang mga kumpanya nga nagahimo sang tradisyonal nga bulong ang nagabakal sang mga gin-utod nga kuko.
Ila ini ginahugasan kag pamalahon agud mangin pino nga pulbos kag ginasimpon sa mga produkto nga bulong.
Gin-athag naman sang mga kompaniya nga ginabusisi man nila ang mga kuko kag wala ginabaton ang halin sa tiil.
Lola, na-in love sa lalaki nga nagpakuno-kuno nga astronaut; Masobra P300K, nataban
Siling nila, indi matakos ang mga bagay nga mahimo mo kun ikaw nagahigugma.
Amo gani nga indi gid mabasol ang isa ka Lola sang nagpalangga ini sa isa ka lalaki nga iya nakilala bilang isa ka astronaut.
Sosyal ang lalaki, kag syempre, todo-kilig man ini nga senior citizen sa northern Hokkaido island sa Japan bangud sang ila adlaw-adlaw nga komunikasyon.
Sa padayon nila nga pag-chat, nagpati gid si Lola sa tanan nga ginapanghambal sang lalaki, bisan nga wala man niya ini nakit-an sa personal.
Nanugid siya kay Lola nga ara siya sa spaceship, ugaling, “under attack” siya kag nagakinahanglan sang oxygen.
Nagpangayo ini sang bulig sa tigulang nga babaye nga magbayad online para nga mabaklan siya sang oxygen, kag sa kahadlok sang Lola nga basi kun indi na makaginhawa ang iya pinalangga, abaw, nagpadala man siya sang 1 million yen ukon katumbas sang masobra sa P382,000.
Ang mabudlay ugaling, matapos nga napadala ang kuwarta, wala na sang mensahe ang lalaki kag indi na sigurado si Lola kun nakabakal ini sang oxygen nga kinahanglan sini.
Sa malip-ot nga istorya, wala natabo ang “happily ever after” nga amo ang ginalauman sang tigulang.
Base sa pulis, kag santo sa gin-report sang Sapporo Television Broadcasting (STV), na-scam ang senior citizen.
Ang Japan amo ang may second-oldest population sa kalibutan kasunod sa Monaco, base sa data sang World Bank, kag ang mga may edad na nga mga tawo kaangay sa sini nga babaye amo gid ang masami nga mga biktima sang kaangay sini nga pagpang-into.
Magluwas sa romance scam, nagapaandam man ang mga pulis nga maghalong gid sa mga tawo nga nagapakilala nga myembro sang pamilya kag nagapangayo sang kuwarta paagi sa pagpakuno-kuno nga may yara sang emerhensya.
Palpak nga e-payment sa contraceptive pills, nagbuyagyag sang sekreto sa pagluib sang bana
Paano bala kun ang imo ginatago nga sekreto, mahibaluan lang bangud sang isa ka palpak nga pagbayad sang bulong?
Isa ka lalaki sa China ang nabuking sang iya asawa matapos nga nagtuyo siya nga magbakal sang contraceptive pills sa isa ka botika paagi sa e-payment.
Apang nagka-aberya ang sistema, gani ginpanawagan sang staff ang numero nga nakalista sa iya membership card, nga sang ulihi, na-link gali sa iya misis.
Nagkabalaka ang asawa sang nahibaluan niya ngaa birth control pills ang ginbakal sang iya bana, nga wala man siya nagagamit sini.
Diri na nagwa ang kamatuoran nga may ‘other woman’ ang iya nga bana.
Subong, ang amo nga lalaki nagareklamo sa social media kag ginabasol ang botika sa pagkaguba sang duha ka pamilya.
Ginpahayag pa niya nga plano niya kasuhan ang botika bangud sang ginatawag niya nga paglapas sa privacy.
Apang suno sa mga legal expert, gamay ang posibilidad nga magdaog siya sa kaso.
Ginpunto pa sang madamo nga netizens nga kun wala siya nagluib sa iya asawa, wala kuntani sang problema.
Sa subong nga panahon sang teknolohiya, bisan ang mga sekreto, indi na masarangan nga taguon.
Gani antes mamasol, pamangkota anay ang kaugalingon: tsakto ni bala ang ginahimo ko?
Mag-asawa, ginbilin ang anak sa airport bangud expired ang passport
Gin-abandonar sang isa ka mag-asawa sa airport ang 10-anyos nga bata nila nga lalaki matapos madiskubrehan nga expired ang passport sini.
Natabo ini sa El Prat Airport sa Barcelona, Spain.
Suno sa air traffic controller, nakit-an sang mga pulis ang bata nga nagaisahanon.
Sang ginpamangkot siya, nagsabat ang bata nga ginbilin siya sang ginikanan niya nga nagpadulong sa Morocco para sa bakasyon.
Bangud diri, wala ginpalupad ang eroplano nga ginsakyan sang iya ginikanan.
Sang ila gin-istorya ang ginikanan, nakibot ang airport official sa sabat nila nga sang nadiksubre nga indi valid ang passport sang ila nga bata, nagdesisyon sila nga bayaan na lang ini sa airport.
Nagtawag na lang sila sa ila paryente nga sugaton ang bata sa airport kag nagsakay sila nga mag-asawa sa eroplano.
Nagapangatubang subong ang mag-asawa sang kaso nga pag-abandonar sa ila nga anak kag pagtuga sang delay sa flight.
Ipaidalom man sila sa dugang nga imbestigasyon agud hibaluon ang ila silot bangud sa nahimo nila sa ila anak.
Lalaki nga wala ginhatagan mayonnaise, ginsunog ang ginkan-an nga café
Gin-aresto sang otoridad sa Espanya ang isa ka lalaki matapos niya nga ginsunog ang isa ka café bangud lang nga ginhambal sang staff nga naubos na ang mayonnaise.
Ginpahayag nga nagakaon ang 50-anyos nga suspek kaupod ang iya anak sang nangayo siya sang mayonnaise para sa iya nga sandwich.
Sang nagsiling ang waiter nga wala na sang mayonnaise, nangakig ini kag nagbiya.
Nagbakal ini sang isa ka botelya sang gasoline kag nagbalik sa café.
Liwat siya namangkot kun may mayonnaise kag sang nagsiling liwat ang staff nga wala na sang nabilin, ginbubuan niya sang gasolina ang bar kag ginsindihan.
Natabuan man nga puno sang customer ang cafégani nagdinalagan sila pagwa.
Natigayon naman nga madakpan sang kapulisan ang suspek matapos nagpalagyo.
Kutsilyo, nakalubong sa dughan sang isa ka lalaki sa sulod na sang walo ka tuig
Makatulublag kag halos indi mapatihan ang isa ka case report nga ginpaguwa sang United States National Library of Medicine kaangot sa isa ka lalaki nga nadiskubrehan nga may kutsilyo sa iya dughan sa sulod na sang walo ka tuig.
Ini nga lalaki naga-edad sang 44-anyos kag tumandok sang Tanzania sa East Africa.
Nangayo ini sang bulig sa mga doktor matapos nakit-an sini ang nana nga nagaguwa sa iya nga right nipple.
Wala siya sang na-eksperyensyahan nga pagpalanakit sang dughan, kabudlay sa pagginhawa, ubo, ukon hilanat, apang gin-ako sini nga walo ka tuig ang nakaligad, na-involve siya sang isa ka away kag nakaangkon sang samad sa iya nga nawong, likod, dughan, kag tiyan.
Ginhatagan lang siya ang first aid halin sa primary health facility kag gintahi ang iya mga pilas, apang wala na sang body scans nga ginhimo bangud limitado man ang pasilidad sa ila nga lugar.
Apang sang nagguwa na ang nana, ginpa-X-ray ang lalaki, kag didto nakit-an sang mga doktor ang metallic object nga isa gali ka kutsilyo sa tuo nga bahin sang iya nga dughan.
Gilayon nga gin-operahan ang lalaki kag ginkuha ang kutsilyo nga napalibutan na sang nana kag necrotic tissue.
Gin-monitor ang kondisyon sang lalaki kag ginpaguwa man sa ospital makaligad ang 10 ka adlaw.
Bisan pa nga nag-recover ini sang mayo, nagakahangawa ang researchers nga may risgo nga dala ang halos isa ka dekada nga pagtinir sang kutsilyo sa iya lawas nga mahimo pa magresulta sa kamatayon.
Ini nga adaptive response suno sa report ang mahimo nga magatabon sang seryoso nga kumplikasyon.
Kasunod sini, gina-engganyo sa report ang “increased awareness and improved protocols for trauma management, safe surgery and safe anaesthesia in low-resource settings” kag dapat ang mga pasyente ang i-refer gid gilayon sa higher-level healthcare facilities nga amo ang makahatag sang comprehensive diagnostic kag surgical care nga kinahanglanon.#
Babaye nga na-convict sa fraud, nagpabusong sang tatlo ka beses agud malikawan ang jail sentence
Isa ka babaye ang ginakabiliban sang kadam-an bangud sang istilo sini kun paano nalikawan nga mapreso apisar nga napamatud-an na nga guilty siya sa isa ka krimen.
Ini nga babaye ginkilala kay Chen Hong, taga-China, kag ginsentensyahan sang apat ka tuig nga pagkapreso bangud sa fraud.
Sang Disyembre 2020 pa siya na-convict sa Shanxi province.
Apang tubtub subong, wala pa siya gihapon na-preso.
Sa masobra apat ka tuig, tatlo ka beses na siya nga nagbusong.
Sa China, ang mga indibidwal nga may prison sentences ang mahimo nga magserbe sang ila nga sentensya sa guwa sang presuhan kun may yara sila sang serious medical conditions, kun sila ang nagabusong, kun sila ang may lapsag nga kinahanglan atenderon, kag kun indi nila matatapan ang ila kaugalingon nga sila lang.
Antes sila makaserbe sa guwa sang presuhan, ginaaprubahan man ini sang korte, kag kun may approval na, may yara sang istrikto nga supervision halin sa ila nga community correctional institutions.
Sa kaso ni Chen, natukiban nga ang iya ikatatlo nga bata ang ginhatag niya sa iya nga bayaw.
Gin-ako man sini nga nagbulagay na sila sang iya bana, kag ang bana amo ang nagtatap sang iya una nga duha ka bata.
Nagapati ang local public prosecutor nga ginhungod ni Chen nga magpabusong para nga indi siya mapreso.
Sa baylo naman nga sa presuhan, ginbalik siya sa detention center agud nga tapuson ang iya nga jail term.
Teacher, ginkakas sa serbisyo matapos madakpan nga nagasideline
Sa tagsa ka mga kumpaniya may yara sang mga pagsulundan kaangay lamang sang indi mahimo magtrabaho sang iban nga trabaho ukon sideline jobs.
Kaangay lamang sa Japan, nakakas sa iya nga trabaho ang isa ka manunudlo sa Okayama matapos madakpan nga naga-sideline sa isa ka convenience store nga isa ka hilimuon nga paglapas sa kontrata sang madamo nga empleyado sa Japan, kalakip na ang mga public teachers.
Suno sa report, isa ka 60-anyos nga manunudlo ang nakit-an kag gin-report sa Okayama City Board of Education nga nagatrabaho sa isa ka convenience store.
Ini ang ginkumpirmar sang iya nga school principal, nga personal nga nagpadulong sa convenience store, adlaw sang Sabado, kun sa diin ang adlaw sang pahuway ukon rest day sang manunudlo.
Sa Japan, kinaandan sa mga kontrata sa trabaho ang pagbawal sa pag-angkon sang pangaduha nga trabaho.
Ang logic sa likod sini agud masiguro nga ang bug-os nga atensiyon kag enerhiya sang isa ka empleyado ang nakatutok sa iya nagapanguna nga trabaho.
Gin-ako sang manunudlo nga nagatrabaho siya sa convenience store humalin pa sadtong November 2023 agud madugangan ang iya nga kita, matapos siya nga “i-rehire” sang iya nga ginatrabahuan nga eskuwelahan.
Ang “rehiring” isa ka hiring process sa Japan kun sa diin ang isa ka empleyado nga naglab-ot na sa retirement age ang liwat nga gina-employed para sa pareho nga posisyon apang may mas manubo nga sweldo.
Nagpangayo sang pasaylo ang manunudlo para sa iya ‘unethical’ nga hilimuon nga nakaguba sa pagsalig sang publiko sa mga manunudlo.
Nag-sorry man ang Okayama City Board of Education sa ila nga mga estudyante.
Ang kaso nagresulta sang mainit nga pagdiskusyon online, kun sa diin madamo ang nagakuwestiyon sa patakaran sang pagbawal sa side job, ilabi na kun ini ang isa ka dungganon nga trabaho kag ginahimo sa gwa sang oras sang nagapanguna nga trabaho.
Bata nga lalaki, ginkagat kag ginpatay ang cobra nga nagburambod sa iya
Isa ka tumalagsahon nga insidente ang nagkibot sa isa ka komunidad sa Bihar, India, matapos mapatay sang duha ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki ang isa ka cobra nga nagburambod sa iya nga kamot.
Ang bata amo si Govinda Kumar nga sang amo nga tion, nagahampang siya sa ila balay.
Ginhaboy sang bata sang bato ang man-og gani nagbalos ang man-og kag ginburambudan ang bata sa kamot.
Sa baylo nga magsinggit sa kahadlok, ginkagat sang bata ang ulo sang man-og nga ginkapatay sang sapat.
Matapos ang insidente, nalipong ang bata bangud sa dalit sang man-og apang nadala ini gilayon sa ospital rason nga natabangan ang bata.
Lalaki, nagpatindog sang fake embassy, nagserbe pa ambassador
Gin-aresto sang mga otoridad sa India ang isa ka lalaki nga nagtukod sang embassy kag nagpakuno-kuno nga ambassador sang peke nga pungsod agud makapang-into sang investors.
Ginbutang niya ang peke nga embahada sa isa ka bungalow sa Ghaziabad.
Agud mas mangin mapatihan, nagpakuno-kuno siya nga manggaranon kag maimpluwensya nga ambassador.
Naggamit ini sang peke nga dokumento, kag nagbutang pa sang flag sang gin-imbento nga pungsod kaangay sang “Ladonia”, “Poulva”, “Seborga” kag “Westarctica” sa gwa sang building.
Ginsulod sang Special Task Force (STF) sang Uttar Pra­desh Police ang peke nga embahada kag naaresto si Jain.
Nakuha hali sa iya ang apat ka salakyan nga may peke nga diplomatic number plates, mga peke nga “diplomatic passport” para sa 12 ka peke nga pungsod, mga peke nga logo sang mga pungsod, kag iban pa.
Sa subong, yara ini sa kustodiya sang pulis kag mangatubang sang sampaw-sampaw nga kaso.
Lalaki sa Hungary, nakabisita sa pito ka mga lugar nga nagabisikleta sa sulod sang 24 oras lamang
May yara sang isa ka lalaki gikan sa Hungary ang nakakuha sang bag-o nga Guinness World Record sang nakabisita ini sa 7 ka pungsod samtang nagabisikleta kag sa sulod lamang sang 24 oras.
Ang lalaki amo si David Kovari, kag suno sa iya antes niya ginlibot ang pila ka mga lugar, ginplano pa niya ang mga ruta nga iya pagaagyan sa sulod sang isa ka semana.
Sa iya pagbyahe gamit ang bisikleta, nabisitahan niya ang pito ka mga lugar kag ini ang ginlakipan sang Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria, Hungary, Slovenia kag Croatia.
Sa iya pagbyahe, ginasiguro man sini nga indi makaagi sa ma-traffic nga lugar agud nga indi ini siya ma-delay kag makaabot gilayon sa lugar nga iya gina-target.
Wala man ini siya nagalabay sang mga matag-as nga dalan agud nga indi siya madasig nga makabatyag sang hapo.
Si Kovari ang ikaduha kag pinakabag-o nga nakaangkon sang Guinness record matapos nga nabisitahan sa sulod sang 24 oras ang mga pila ka mga lugar.
Ang nauna nga naka-record amo ang German cyclist nga si Michael Moll nga nakabisita man sa anom ka mga pungsod.
Kuring sa New Zealand, nabisto nga nagapang-takaw sang mga hinalay nga underwear
May isa ka kuring sa New Zealand nga bantog sa ila nga mga kasilingan bangud sang tumalagsahon sini nga abilidad.
Kun naandan naton nga nagapang-takab ang kuring sang sud-an, si Leo naman ukon ang kuring nga ginbansagan nga si Leonardo da Pinchy ang nanamian gid nga manghakot sang hinalay sang ila mga tupad-balay.
Suno kay Helen North nga tag-iya sang kuring, ang paborito gid nga kuhaon sang iya hinuptanan amo ang hinalay nga mga underwear kag ang mga medyas.
Pahayag sini, base lang sa iya naisip, 159 na ka mga bayo kag underwear ang nahakot sang iya kuring, kag kun kaisa, may dala man ini nga gardening gloves, sports bra, kalo, kag maski malahalon nga jersey nga may price tag pa.
Suno kay Helen, pinaka-aktibo si Leo kada Domingo kun sa diin madamo ang hinalay nga bayo sa ila palibot.
Agud mabalik ang mga gamit sa tag-iya, ginagamit naman ni Helen ang isa ka lokal nga WhatsApp group kag mga Facebook group sang ila kasilingan.
Didto niya ginapost ang mga litrato sang mga bagay nga ginadala ni Leo agud makita kag makuha sang tag-iya.
Gindugang man sini nga wala man ginaguba ni Leo ang mga gamit, kundi ginabilin lang sa salog nga daw kaangay nga wala lang sang natabo.
Lalaki nga may matalom nga sulang, nangin online sensation
Ang kada tawo, may pinasahi gid nga kinaiya sa nawong man ukon sa diin nga parte sang lawas.
Halimbawa diri amo ang Japanese internet celebrity nga si @Jonouchich1 nga may yara sang malaba nga sulang nga amo ang rason nga nakilala siya sa social media.
Siya ang masami nga ginasuyaan bangod sa iya sulang nga daw makasarang magbuno kag ginakumpara sa mga anime characters nga may malaba kag taliwis nga sulang ukon babalo.
Apang ini ang gingamit niya agud maka-attract sang atensyon.
Madamo sa mga fans niya ang naghambal nga magpa X-ray siya nga iya man gintuman.
Suno sa mga doktor wala pa sila nakakita sang tawo nga may babalo kaangay sang iya apang ginalantaw nga posible ini may kaangtanan sa genes.
Apang ginapatihan naman ni Jonouchich nga bangod mahilig siya mag-inom sang gatas, posible nga ang tanan nga calcium nagkadto lang sa iya babalo apang wala naman ginbaton sang mga doktor ang ini nga rason.
Sa subong, apisar nga ginasuyaan ang iya sulang kag kun kaisa gina-reject pa sang mga babaye, ginakabig naman niya ini nga asset.
Man-og, naghulid tulog sa manok samtang nagabaha
Isa ka man-og ang nakit-an nga nagtupad sa isa ka manok sa sulod sang kurungan sini sa Calasiao, Pangasinan.
Suno kay Zaldy Posadas Tamayo, nakita na lang niya ang man-og kasunod sang pagbaha sa ila nga lugar.
Nagpaandam naman ang mga eksperto nga indi pagsakiton ang mga man-og, sa baylo, i-report gilayon sa otoridad para nga ma-rescue.
Lalaki nga adlaw-adlaw nga hubog matapos ginbayaan sang asawa, nasapwan nga patay kaupod ang mga botelya
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka lalaki sa Rayong, Thailand bangud sa adlaw-adlaw nga pag-inom sang beer sa sulod sang masobra isa ka bulan.
Sang damlag lang, ginrespondehan sang mga rescue workers halin sa Siam Rayong Foundation ang isa ka balay sa Ban Chang district sang Rayong agud buligan ang isa ka lalaki nga ginpahayag nga nagsuprir sang seizure kag nalipong.
Sa malain nga palad, antes pa man sila nag-abot, napatay na ang pasyente.
Siya ginkilala nga si Thaweesak Namwongsa, 44-anyos, kag amay sang 16-anyos nga solterito.
Suno sa anak sang biktima, wala na gid sang iban nga ginakaon ukon ginainom ang iya amay sa sulod na sang masobra isa ka bulan.
Nakit-an sa iya kwarto ang masobra 100 ka botelya sang beer.
Ginapatihan nga ang pagbulagay nila sang iya asawa ang reason kun ngaa nagpinahubog na lang ini adlaw-adlaw.
Lalaki, ginpapreso matapos nabalahuba nga ginpa-inom sini sang ‘truth serum’ ang iya katrabaho
Ginsentensyahan ang isa ka lalaki sa Shanghai, China sang kapin tatlo ka tuig nga pagkabilanggo matapos napamatud-an nga sulit-sulit niya nga ginbutangan sang ginatawag nga “truth serum” ang ilimnon sang iya kaupod sa opisina agud mahibaluan ang mga plano sini sa trabaho.
Ang akusado nga ginkilala sa apelyido nga Li napamatud-an nga may sala nga “inducing drug use through deception.”
Nabakal ni Li ang “truth serum” sa isa ka business trip kun sa diin ginsiling sang nagbaligya nga bisan pila lang ka patak sini, bastante na agud mapasugid ang isa ka tawo sang ila tinago ukon mga sikreto.
Syempre, para mahibaluan, gin-try man ni Li!
Gingamit niya ini batok sa iya kaupod nga si Wang agud hibaluon ang mga plano sini sa trabaho.
Una niya ini ginhimo sang Agosto 2022, samtang nagkadto sila sa dinner sang iya mga kaupdanan.
Ginpatakan niya ang ilimnon ni Wang sang serum.
Naka-eksperyensya si Wang sang pagkahilo kag kalain sang pamatyag, pero wala gihapon nakuha ni Li ang impormasyon nga ginapangita niya.
Ini ang rason nga ginhimo niya ini liwat sang Oktubre kag Nobyembre 2022 kag naglain liwat ang pamatyag ni Wang.
Diri na nagsugod nga magduda si Wang, bangud iya nakit-an nga nga kada upod niya si Li magkaon sa gwa, dira lang siya nagamasakit.
Nagdesisyon siya nga magpa-check sang dugo kag ihi.
Base sa resulta sang laboratory test, nagpositibo siya sa clonazepam kag xylazine nga makit-an man sa pampakalma nga apektado ang central nervous system.
Gamit ang nasambit nga ebidensya, nagpasaka si Wang sang reklamo sa pulis.
Ginsalakay sang mga otoridad ang balay ni Li kag nadakpan didto ang “truth serum” nga may sulod man sang amo nga mga droga.
Dira na kag nag-ako si Li sa iya nga sala.
Sang ulihi, ginsentensyahan sang Shanghai District People’s Court si Li sang tatlo ka tuig kag tatlo ka bulan nga pagkabilanggo kag multa nga 10,000 yuan.
Bisan wala gindetalye kung ano ang eksakto nga work plan ni Wang, madamo ang nag-espekular online kon ano kadaku sang plano nga ini kag ano gid nga sikreto ang gusto sini mahibaluan kun ngaa nasarangan sini maghimo sang krimen.
Magkahagugma, nadayon ang kasal bisan nagabaha
Wala napunggan sang baha ang kasal sang magkahagugma nga sanday Jade Rick Verdillo kag Jamaica Aguilar sa Barasoain Church sa Bulacan subong nga adlaw.
Babaye nga 22 ka beses ginbuno sa dughan, nakaluwas bangud peke ang iya boobs
Isa ka babaye sa China ang nakaluwas matapos ginbuno sang 22 beses sa dughan sa bulig sang iya silicone breast implants!
Ang insidente natabo sa isa ka shopping mall sa South Eastern China.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, ginpilit sang suspek ang 30-anyos nga biktima nga magsulod sa iya salakyan sa parking area kag gintayaan niya ini sang kutsilyo kag ginpilit nga magmaneho pakadto sa isa ka lugar.
Samtang yara sa biyahe, ginpilit siya sang suspek nga mangita sang kwarta agud ipadala sa iya kag ihatag sa suspek.
Ini man ang nangin kahigayunan para sa babaye nga makapangayo sang bulig.
Sa bulig sang boyfriend, ginpa-trace sini ang GPS location sang biktima sa bulig sang mga pulis.
Apang pag-abot sang mga pulis, hinali lang ginbuno sang suspek sa dughan ang biktima bag-o sini ginbuno man ang kaugalingon nga kabangdanan sang kamatayon sang suspek.
Sa maayo nga palad, nakaluwas ang biktima kag suno sa mga doktor, isa ka igo sang buno lang ang naangkon niya sa iya nga baga.
Suno sang biktima, sang amo nga tion, nagapaidalom siya sa breast augmentation surgery kag ginsagang sang silicone implant ang buno nga nakapatay kuntani sa iya.
Babaye nga nakighilawas sa mga monghe, arestado
Arestado sang mga otoridad ang isa ka babaye sa Thailand matapos nga sekreto nga ginkuhaan sang laragway kag video ang pagpakighilawas niya sa mga monghe, agud makakwarta.
Golf” nga nagapang-blackmail sa mga monghe nga naka-sex niya, gamit ang ila nga mga video sang ila akto.
Suno sa pulis, posible nga nakakwarta ang babaye sang tubtob sa 385 milyong baht sa nakaligad nga tatlo ka tuig paagi sa pag- blackmail sa mga monghe.
Ginpahayag nga siyam ka mga monghe ang iya naka-sex.
Golf ang masobra sa 80,000 nga mga pictures kag videos nga gin-gamit niya agud pahugon ang mga monghe.
Ang monghe isa ka lalaki nga miyembro sang relihiyoso nga grupo nga nagapangabuhi sang simple, disiplinado, kag may mga panata nga indi magpangasawa ukon magpakighilawas,kag magsunod sa mga mando sang ila nga komunidad ukon relihiyon.
49-anyos nga gwardiya sa aga, estudyante sa gab-i, natuman ang handom nga mangin college graduate
Ginpamatud-an sang 49-anyos nga security guard nga wala sang edad kun ang paglab-ot sa handom ang pagaistoryahan.
Sang damlag lang, nakatapos si Avila sang degree program nga Bachelor of Public Administration sa amo nga unibersidad kun sa diin siya naga-duty.
Suno sa Facebook post sang UCC, sa sulod sang malawig nga tuig, nangin pamilyar nga nawong si Avila nga hipuson lang kag nagabantay sa palibot.
Apang sa likod sini amo ang iya handom nga makatapos sa kolehiyo.
Sa bulig sang LGU- Caloocan, kag sa idalom sang isa ka programa nga nagahatag sang oportunidad sa mga empleyado sang gobyerno nga makaeskwela samtang nagatrabaho, liwat nga nabuhi ang iya paglaum.
Sa idalom sang Bachelor of Public Administration-Evening Classes for Government Employees (BPA-ECGE), nagpadayon siya sa iya nga serbisyo sa adlaw bilang guwardiya, kag sa gabi bilang estudyante.
Tuman naman ang iya pagpasalamat sa Board of Regents nga ginapamunuan ni Chairman, Hon.
Malapitan, nga nangin instrumento agud matuman ang iya handom.
55-anyos na ama, itinakas at pinakasalan ang nobya ng kanyang anak
Isang 55-taóng gulang na lalaki ang tumakas kasama ang 22-taóng gulang na fiancée ng kanyang menor de edad na anak, habang bitbit ang lahat ng ipon at mga alahas ng kanilang pamilya.
Kinilala ang lalaki bilang si Shakeel, isang ama ng anim at lolo ng tatlo, na umano’y tumakas patungong Delhi upang pakasalan si Ayesha (hindi tunay na pangalan), ang nobya na inihanda sana para sa kanyang 17-taóng gulang na anak na si Aman (hindi rin tunay na pangalan).
Ayon sa kanyang asawang si Shabbana, si Shakeel mismo ang nagpumilit sa pagpapakasal nina Aman at Ayesha, kahit pa tutol sila dahil sa murang edad ng kanilang anak at kakulangan sa pera.
Ngunit sa hindi inaasahang pag-ikot ng pangyayari, tumawag si Shakeel mula sa Delhi upang sabihin sa kanyang pamilya na siya na mismo ang nagpakasal kay Ayesha.
“Yung babaeng dapat ay maging manugang ko, asawa na ngayon ng asawa ko,” ani Shabbana sa isang panayam sa lokal na midya.
Ikinuwento rin ni Shabbana na madalas bumisita si Shakeel kay Ayesha sa ngalan ng paghahanda sa kasal, ngunit matagal na raw niyang pinaghihinalaan ang namumuong ugnayan ng dalawa.
Kapag kinakausap niya ang kanyang asawa tungkol dito, siya raw ay nilalait, pinapagalitan, at minsan pa ay sinasaktan.
Kalaunan, nakakuha siya ng ebidensiya—mga mensahe sa cellphone—na ipinakita niya kay Aman, dahilan para kanselahin nito ang kasal.
Ngunit hindi doon nagtapos ang eskandalo.
Bukod sa pagtakbo ni Shakeel kasama si Ayesha, nadiskubre rin na tinangay niya ang higit 200,000 rupees (halos ₱140,000) at ang lahat ng alahas ng pamilya.
Sa kabila ng matinding iskandalo, wala pa raw formal na reklamo na inihain laban kay Shakeel, kaya’t hindi pa makakilos ang mga pulis, ayon sa ulat ng Times of India.
Hindi ito ang unang pagkakataong may ganitong pangyayari sa India.
Ilang buwan lang ang nakalipas, naiulat din ang isang lalaki na tumakas at nagpakasal sa ina ng kanyang bride-to-be, siyam na araw bago ang kanilang nakatakdang kasal.
55-anyos nga amay, gintaban ang nobya sang iya anak
Isa ka 55-anyos nga amay ang nagpalagyo kag gintaban ang 22-anyos nga nobya sang iya menor de edad nga anak.
Gindala pa sini ang tanan nga sinuptan kag mga alahas sang ila nga pamilya.
Ang amay amo si Shakeel,may anom ka kabataan kag tatlo ka apo.
Suno sa pamilya, nagpalagyo ini padulong sa Delhi agud pakaslan si alyas nga nobya nga ginahanda kuntani para sa iya nga 17-anyos nga anak nga si alyas Aman.
Suno sa iya asawa nga si Shabbana, si Shakeel mismo ang nagpilit sa pagpakasal nanday Aman kag Ayesha, bisan pa nga nagapamatok sila bangud sa tuman ka bata nga edad kag kakulangan sa kwarta.
Apang sa wala ginlauman nga kapalaran, nagtawag si Shakeel halin sa Delhi agud ipahibalo nga siya na mismo ang nagpakasal kay Ayesha.
Ginpakigbahin man ni Shabbana nga masami nagabisita si Shakeel kay Ayesha sa ngalan sang pagpanghanda sa kasal, apang madugay na niya nga ginadudahan ang relasyon sang duha.
Sa pihak sang iskandalo, wala pa sang pormal nga reklamo nga ginpasaka batok kay Shakeel.
Babayi sa Japan, arestado bangud sa paghimo kag pagbaligya sang libro kun paano huthutan sang kwarta ang mga sugar daddies
Arestado ang isa ka social media influencer sa Japan bangud sa paghimo kag pagbaligya sang libro nga nagatudlo kun paano huthutan sang kwarta ang mga “sugar daddies” kag mga “dirty old men”!
Ang babayi amo si Mai Watanabe, 25, kag residente sang Naka-ku, Nagoya, Japan.
Ang mga nasambit nga libro ang nagaserbe nga manual para sa mga kababainhan nga gusto makakita sang kwarta pamaagi sa pag-angkon sang “sugar daddy”
Suno sa mga nakabasa na sang libro, detalyado ang mga instructions ang nakabutang.
Ginatudlo diri kun paano magpangita sang sugar daddy, paano sila palapitan kag akiton kag kun paano man ang husto nga pagpang-into sa mga ini.
Sa isa ka interview sa Naka Police Department, ginpahayag nga nag-umpisa ang pagbaligya ni Watanabe sang mga libro sa iya nga mga social media followers sang 2022.
Nagabalor ang mga libro sang 10,000 Yen ukon P3, 700 tubtob sa 20,000 Yen ukon P7, 400.
Naga-offer man si Watanabe sang face to face private lesson sa mga gusto nga makita sang personal kun pan-o pangwartahan ang isa ka sugar daddy.
Antes gin-aresto, nakabaligya na ini sang masobra 2,000 ka mga kopya sang mga libro.
Bangud sa imbestigasyon, natukiban nga beterano na sa pagpanghuthot sang kwarta si Watanabe bangud may mga report nga kapin 150-million-yen na ang nabaton niya nagikan sa nanari-sari nga mga kalalakinhan.
Apat ka mga lalaki, arestado matapos naggamit sang curry spices agud nga makapangawat
Naaresto ang apat ka mga lalaki nga Indian kag Nepalese national matapos gin-report naggamit sang curry spices powder bilang armas sa pagpangawat sa Yoshikawa, Saitama Prefecture
Suno sa otoridad sang Saitama, apat ka mga lalaki halin saIndia kag Nepal ang nagpalapit sa 52-anyos nga biktima.
Sa baylo nga kutsilyo ukon pusil, gin-usar sang mga suspek ang curry spice powder kag ginsabwag ini sa nawong kag mata sang biktima agud nga temporaryo siya nga indi makakita.
Apang, wala nagpapyerdi ang biktima kag maisog nga nagbto sa mga suspek, kag wala gid niya ginbuy-an ang iya bag.
Gindala sa ospital ang biktima para sa nagakaigo nga pagbulong sa nagahabok sini nga mata.
Sa bulig sang mga CCTV footage, naaresto na sang Saitama Prefectural Police ang apat nga suspek sa natabo nga insidente, ginkasuhan sila sang assault attempted robbery.
Bana, nabilin ang iya asawa sa gas station; nadumduman lang sang yara na ini sa kalayuon nga 300 kilometers
Isa ka 62-anyos nga lalaki sa France ang nagdulot sang alarma sa mga pulis matapos siya nga nagtawag sa emergency services agud i-report nga nalimtan niya ang iya nga asawa sa isak g gasolinahan sa highway — kag indi man niya madumduman kun diin ang gasolinahan.
Natabo ini sang damlag lang sang nagbyahe ang mag-asawa halin sa Paris pakadto sa Morocco kaupod ang ila anak nga babaye.
Samtang yara sa biyahe, nagpundo sila sa gasolinahan kag sang naglarga na ini, wala nakasakay ang iya asawa.
Nanotisyaran lamang niya nga nabayaan niya ang iya asawa sang yara na ini sa kalayuon nga 300 kilometros gani gilayon siya nagtawag sa emergency services para mangayo sang bulig.
Ang mas kaladlawan pa, ang ila nga 22-anyos nga anak nga babaye ang yara man sa salakyan apang tulog man gani wala man siya sang hinalung-ong nga nabayaan ang iya iloy.
Sa bulig sang mga pulis, natultulan nila ang iya asawa nga maayo man nga wala ini naghalin sa lugar kag naghulat sa pagbalik sang iya pamilya.
Matapos ang isa ka imbestigasyon, nagdesisyon ang mga otoridad nga matuod nga nalimtan lang sang lalaki ang iya nga asawa gani gintugutan sila nga magpadayon sa biyahe padulong sa Morocco.
Batang iniwan ng ina, lumaking kasama ang aso — natutong kumahol sa halip na magsalita
Isang 8-taong-gulang na batang lalaki mula sa Uttaradit Province sa Thailand ang natuklasang iniwan at pinabayaan ng kanyang ina na nalulong sa droga.
Dahil dito, sa loob ng mahabang panahon, nakakasama lamang niya ang kanyang mga aso, at natutong kumahol bilang paraan ng pakikipagkomunikasyon.
Nalaman ni Paveena Hongsakul ng Foundation for Children and Women ang tungkol sa kaso ng bata mula sa isang punong-guro sa distrito ng Lap Lae.
Ayon sa ulat, dinala lang ng ina ang bata sa paaralan isang beses upang makatanggap ng benepisyo, ngunit hindi man lang siya inenrol.
Hindi rin nakaranas ng kindergarten ang bata at matagal nang emosyonal na pinabayaan ng kanyang ina at nakatatandang kapatid.
Sa kawalan ng kalinga ng tao, mga aso ang naging kaibigan at kasama niya, at natutunan niyang kumilos at kumahol gaya nila.
Nakipag-ugnayan si Hongsakul sa lokal na pulisya upang imbestigahan ang sitwasyon.
Sa kanilang pagsisiyasat, napatunayan nilang positibo sa droga ang 46-taong-gulang na ina at 23-taong-gulang na kuya ng bata.
Ayon sa pulisya, mas inuna ng dalawa ang kanilang bisyo kaysa sa kapakanan ng bata.
Ayon sa mga kapitbahay, palagi raw humihingi ng pera at pagkain ang ina.
Dahil sa matagal nang isyu sa droga, iniiwasan ng mga tao ang kanilang pamilya, dahilan upang walang batang gustong makipaglaro sa bunso.
Sa halip, sumama na lamang siya sa isang grupo ng mga aso, ginaya ang kanilang kilos, at natutong kumahol bilang pakikipag-usap.
Iniulat ng Thai newspaper na Khaosod na ang batang tinawag lamang bilang “A” upang maprotektahan ang kanyang pagkakakilanlan, ay inilipat na sa Uttaradit Children’s Home.
Doon ay tutulungan siyang matutong magsalita ng wasto at matiyak na makatatanggap siya ng tamang edukasyon at pangangalaga.
British youtuber, nag-viral matapos pekehin ang kanyang kamatayan para sa Airline refund
Umani ng matinding atensyon online ang British YouTuber na si Max Fosh matapos niyang pekehin ang sarili niyang kamatayan sa pagtatangkang makuha ang $50 na refund mula sa isang airline.
Ayon kay Fosh, hindi niya nagamit ang kanyang plane ticket at sinubukang i-refund ito.
Ngunit batay sa refund policy ng airline, kamatayan lamang ng pasahero ang tanging dahilan na kanilang tinatanggap para ibalik ang bayad.
Dahil dito, bumiyahe si Fosh patungong Seborga, Italy, kung saan nakumbinsi niyang maglabas ng isang pekeng death certificate ang isang lokal na opisyal.
Isinumite niya ito sa airline bilang “patunay” na siya ay pumanaw na.
Ngunit ayon sa kanyang abogado, ang ginawang ito ni Fosh ay mapanganib at maaaring mauwi sa kasong fraud, kahit pa ito ay bahagi lamang ng isang biro para sa kanyang YouTube channel.
Sa kabila ng lahat, hindi pa rin siya nakakuha ng refund.
Gayunpaman, nag-trending ang kanyang video at umani ng sari-saring reaksiyon mula sa netizens.
Marami ang naaliw, ngunit may ilan ding nagpaalala sa kahalagahan ng pag-unawa sa refund policy ng airline bago bumili ng ticket.
“Nakakatawa pero delikado,” ayon sa isang netizen.
“Hindi dapat ginagawang biro ang mga ganitong bagay.”
Lalaki, naospital matapos mabatid na may buhay na igat na lumalangoy sa kanyang tiyan
Isang 33-anyos na lalaki mula Hunan, China ang dinala sa emergency room ng First Affiliated Hospital ng Hunan Medical University dahil sa matinding pananakit ng tiyan at pagkahilo.
Namumutla at pawis na pawis ang pasyente nang dumating sa ospital.
Ayon sa ulat ng Huaihua Daily, matapos isailalim sa CT scan, nadiskubre ng mga doktor ang kakaibang bagay sa loob ng tiyan ng lalaki.
Lumalabas na may 12-inch na buhay na igat na tumagos mula sa bituka at lumalangoy sa abdominal cavity.
Dahil sa matinding sakit at panganib na dulot ng impeksiyon, agad na isinailalim ang pasyente sa laparoscopic surgery.
Sa operasyon, nagulat ang mga surgeon nang makita ang gumagalaw na igat sa loob ng tiyan.
Napag-alaman na may butas sa bahagi ng bituka ng lalaki na siyang daan ng pagpasok ng igat.
Ginamit ng mga doktor ang espesyal na clamp upang tanggalin ang igat, at nilinis nila nang maigi ang apektadong bahagi.
Tinahi rin nila ang butas sa bituka upang maiwasan ang posibleng impeksiyon.
Matagumpay na nakarekober ang pasyente at nakalabas ng ospital ilang araw matapos ang operasyon.
Sa ngayon, hindi pa matukoy kung paano nakapasok ang igat sa loob ng kanyang katawan, at patuloy ang imbestigasyon ng mga awtoridad.
Ang insidenteng ito ay nagbigay babala sa publiko tungkol sa posibleng panganib ng mga kakaibang impeksiyon at ang kahalagahan ng agarang medikal na atensyon kapag nakararanas ng matinding pananakit ng tiyan.
16 ka buhi nga mga man-og, nasapwan sa bagahe sang pasahero halin sa Thailand
Dakop ang isa ka pasahero halin sa Thailand sang mga customs official sa Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport matapos ini masapwan nga may dala nga 16 ka buhi nga mga man-og nga ginsulod sa iya bagahe.
Suno sa pahayag sang mga otoridad sa Mumbai, lakip sa mga nakumpiska nga mga man-og ang mga masami makita sa pet trade, pareho sang garter snake, coastal banded California king snake, rhino rat snake, kag Kenyan sand boa.
Ginklaro sang mga otoridad nga kadam-an sa mga ini indi delikado ukon makamamatay sa tawo.
Gilayon nga gindakop ang nasambit nga pasahero, kag padayon pa ang imbestigasyon nga ginapatigayon sang mga otoridad may kaangtanan sa insidente.
Ginpaguwa man sa social media ang mga litrato sang mga man-og bilang ebidensya sang pagpangdakop.
Indi ini ang una nga kahigayunan nga may nadakpan sa amo nga paluparan may kaangtanan sa wildlife smuggling.
Sang Pebrero, may isa pa ka pasahero nga nadakpan nga nagapasulod sang lima ka Siamang gibbons, nga ginakabig nga endangered species.
Samtang sang Nobyembre sang nagligad nga tuig, dinosena ka mga pagong man ang nakumpiska sa kapareho nga kaso.
Suno sa TRAFFIC, isa ka grupo nga naga-monitor sang wildlife trade, nagadamo ang kaso sang pagpanguha sang kasapatan halin Thailand padulong sa India bangud sang nagataas nga demand sa exotic pets.
Sa sulod sang tatlo kag tunga ka tuig, masobra 7,000 ka kasapatan na ang nakumpiska sa amo nga ruta, kag kapin sa 80% sini nadakpan mismo sa India.
Ginpahanumdom sang mga otoridad ang publiko nga hugot nga ginadumilian ang iligal nga pag-transport kag pagbaligya sang wildlife species.
Ang magalapas sang layi ang magapangatubang sang mabug-at nga penalidad.
Indi ini una nga kahigayunan nga may nadakpan nga wildlife smuggling sa nasambit nga Paluparan.
Sang Pebrero, may isa man ka pasahero nadakpan nga nagpasulod sang lima ka Siamang gibbons nga ginakabig nga endangered species,
Samtang, sang Nobyembre sang nagligad lang nga tuig, dinosena man ka mga pagong ang nakuha sa kapareho nga kaso.
Suno sa grupo nga TRAFFIC nga naga-monitor sang wildlife trade, nagadamo ang kaso sang pagpanguha sang mga kasapatan halin Thailand pakadto sa India, bangud sang nagataas nga demand para sa mga exotic pets.
Ginpahanumdom sang mga otoridad ang publiko nga hugot nga ginadumilian ang iligal nga pag-transport kag pagbaligya sang wildlife species, kag may mabug-at nga penalidad ang magasupak sa layi.
Device, nagatakos sang kaisog sang angsod sang isa ka tawo
Nagakabalaka ka bala sa imo abyan nga may indi maayo nga baho?
Luyag mo siya prangkahon apang nagaduha-duha ikaw bangud mahimo nga maglain ang iya nga buot ukon mahuy-an siya?
Indi magkabalaka bangud may yara na sang solusyon dira agud nga mahibaluan niya mismo nga may yara siya sang indi manami nga baho nga indi siya ma-offend.
Ang tawo nga may yara sang ‘body odor’ ang isa ka seryoso nga isyu.
Gani sa pungsod Japan, may yara sang high tech device nga makabulig sa isa ka tawo nga mahibaluan kun mabaho ini ukon indi.
Ginhimo ni Tanita ang isa ka handheld smell checker nga ginatawag ES-100 kag naga-analyze sang body odor sang tawo kag naga guwa ang numero humalin 1 tubtob 10 bilang intensity kun ano ka baho ang ilok sang isa ka tawo, sa diin 10 ang pinakamabaho.
Ang ini nga device ang mahapos nga gamiton.
Sa sulod sang 10 ka segundo, mahibaluan mo na gilayon ang baho sang imo nga ilok.
Kun maguwa sa device nga 0, ini buot silingon nga wala ikaw sang body odor, ang 1-4 amo ang acceptable pa nga lebel sang body odor, kun makakuha ka naman sang 5-9 ini buot silingon nga kinahanglan na nga hatagan sang igtalupangod kag kun 10 naman, kumpirmado na nga may yara ikaw sang body odor.
Isa ka buwaya ang ginpakaslan sang alkalde sa banwa sang San Pedro Huamelula sa Oaxaca, Mexico bilang kabahin sang isa ka masobra 200 ka tuig na nga tradisyon nga nagasimbolo sang koneksyon sang tawo kag palibot sini.
Makita sa seremonya ang buwaya nga nagsuksok sang puti nga bayo pangkasal samtang ginhalukan ini ni Mayor Daniel Gutierrez sa atubang sang mga pumuluyo.
Sa ritwal, ginakilala ang mayor bilang hari sang tribo nga Chontal, samtang ang buwaya naman ang ginakabig nga prinsesa sang mga Huave.
Antes sang kasal, ang buwaya ang ginparada pa palibot sa banwa kag ginpakilala sa kada panimalay.
Ginasugata siya sang mga pumuluyo nga may hakos, nagsaot sila, kag nagkinalipay.
Para sa safety sang tanan, ginhigtan ang baba sang buwaya.
Ginpasuksok ini sang puti nga bayo pangkasal antes dal-on sa town hall para sa opisyal nga seremonya.
Gintapos ang kasal sa paghalok sang mayor sa baba sang buwaya.
Pagkatapos sang seremonya, nagsaot ang mayor kag ang buwaya sa tono sang tradisyunal nga musika.
Suno sa mga local nga mga pumuluyo, ang ini nga sahi sang kasal nagadala sang maayo nga ani kag madamo nga mga hulik halin sa kadagatan.#
Sikag sang isda nga natulon sang babaye, sa liog mismo niya naggwa
Wala ginlauman sang isa ka babaye sa Thailand nga mabutang sa peligro ang iya kabuhi bangud gid lang sa isda nga iya ginkaon.
Suno sa report, duha ka semana na sang natulon sang babaye ang bukog sang isda.
Gintuyo nila nga kuhaon ini sa tanan nga paagi pareho sang pagkaon sang saging apang wala sang may natabo.
Nagkadto sila sa ospital kag nagpa-X-ray, apang wala sang nakita nga tunok ang doktor.
Samtang nagadugay, nagbanog kag nagsakit ang iya liog.
Sang ulihi, may nakit-an ini nga matig-a kag taliwis nga butang nga amat-amat nga nagagwa sa iya liog.
Sang nagtuhaw na ang punta sang bukog, nagbalik sila sa doctor kag didto na nakuha ang bukog sang isda.
Suno sa mga doktor, tumalagsahon ang ini nga kaso kun sa diin ang sikag mismo ang nagmato-mato pagwa sa lawas sang tawo.
Lalaki nga masami ginaigo sang kilat, ginlubong ang iya kaugalingon sa duta
Isa ka lalaki sa Colombia nga masami ginaigo sang kilat ang nagdesisyon nga ilubong ang iya kaugalingon sa duta agud indi na siya maigo liwat.
Nagkutkot si Alexander Mandon sang buho tubtob sa iya liog ang kataason, gintabunan niya ang iya kaugalingon kag ang iya lang ulo ang nagguwa.
Ang iya lawas yara sa idalom sang duta sa sulod sang pila ka oras.
Si Alexander isa ka soldado kag ginasuspetsahan nga may yara sang makatilingala nga kondisyon sa lawas nga nagahimo sa iya nga madali siya nga maigo sang kilat.
Ang iya pinakaulihi nga inagihan amo ang pinakamabaskog bangud sa isa ka adlaw, makaduha siya nga naigo sang kilat.
Ang una nga pag-igo sa iya sang kilat ang yara siya sa sulod sang isa ka kampo kag sa maayo nga palad, wala man sang may natabo sa iya.
Apang ang iya mga opisyales sa militar nahadlok nga basi mahalitan ang mga kaupod gani nagdesisyon sila nga siya ang pabakasyunon anay.
Sang pagpauli niya, naigo siya liwat sang kilat.
Paralisado siya kag indi na makalakat bangud sang pag-igo sang kilat sa iya.
Pila ka adlaw, nagpakonsulta siya sa doktor sa ila lugar kag ginlaygayan siya sang doktor nga ilubong ang iya kaugalingon sa duta apang kinahanglan nga tubtob ini sa iya liog bangud suno sa iya doctor, ang higko sa duta amo ang magasuyop sang mga electrical charges sa lawas ni Alexander.
Matapos malubong ang iya kaugalingon, ginpahayag nga nakabatyag siya sang kaumpawan kag wala na sang report pa nga ginaigo siya liwat sang kilat.
Bar sa Japan, ginabalik-balikan bangud sang pinasahi nga serbisyo
Isa ka izakaya bar sa Nagoya, Japan ang nagapangatubang sang kontrobersyal bangud sang ila pinasahi nga serbisyo nga ginahatag sa mga customer.
Ang bar, nga kilala sa ila manamit kag krispy nga chicken karaage, naghatag man sang libre kag literal nga “crispy spankings” sa mga bisita.
Suno sa manager sang nasambit nga bar, ang pagtampa nagahatag interes sa ila negosyo, gani nangin epektibo ini nga paagi agud makapaganyat sang mas madamo pa nga customer.
Sa una, isa lang ka waitress ang nagatampa — kag ginahimo lang ini kun ginapangayo sang customer.
Apang samtang nagadamo ang mga interesado nga makaeksperyensya sang serbisyo, ang bar nag-hire sang mas madamo nga mga babayi nga handa magtampa sa balor nga 100 yen ukon P37 kada isa.
Sang primero, isa lang ka waitress ang nagahimo sang pagpanampa sa customer, apang bangud sa madamo na ang nagapangita sang ini nga klasi sang serbisyo kag nangin in-demand pa ini, nag-hire pa ang amo nga bar sang pila ka mga babayi nga nagapanampa sa balor nga 100 yen ukon P37.
Suno sa report sang Liberty Times Net, may mga customer pa nga nagabayad sang 500 yen agud lang makapili kun sin-o nga waitress ang gusto nila nga magatampa sa ila.
Gani indi lang mga local nga Japanese ang naga-interes, kundi pati mga foreigners ukon foreign tourists nagapila man agud lang tampaon.
Pagkatapos nga maglapta ang amo nga video sa social media, ang bar nakabaton sang nasari-sari nga mga reaction kag kritisismo, sa bagay nga nga nagdesisyon ang manager sang amo nga ilimnan nga untaton na ang amo nga klase sang serbisyo.
Wala pa klaro kun san-o gid nila gin-untat ang serbisyo, apisar bisan wala na ini, padayon gihapon nga ginadumdom sang kadam-an, bilang isa sa mga pinaka-‘extraordinary’ nga paagi sang customer engagement sa bar scene sang Japan.
Asosasyon sang mga palahubog, nagprotesta sa mataas nga presyo sang ilimnon
Nagtililipon ang grupo sang mga hubog agud i-protesta ang mataas nga presyo sang ilimnon sa Ghana.
Suno sa Ghana Drunkard Association nagpatigayon sila sang hublag sa syudad sang Accra agud hingyuon sa gobyerno nga pamatian ang ila sentimento kag hatagan sang solusyon ang nagataas nga presyo sang mga ilimnon.
Suno kay Moses Onyah nga presidente sang grupo, mabatyagan sang minilyon nila nga myembro ang 15 percent nga pagtaas sa presyo sang ilimnon.
Naghatag sang tatlo ka semana nga ultimatum ang grupo sa gobyerno nga masolusyunan ang isyu kag nagpanawagan sang bulig sang ila anay Presidente nga si John Dramani Mahama.
Apisar makahalam-ot, ang Ghana Drunkards Association (GDA) ang isa sa mga pinakaki­lala nga asosasyon sa Ghana, nga may kapin t 6.6 million members.
Pag-hire sa gwapo agud magpahid sang luha kun maglantaw sang sad movies, patok sa Japan
Sa Japan, may yara sang isa ka pinasahi nga serbisyo nga ginatawag nga Ikemeso Danshi.
Ini nagatanyag sang emotional comfort paagi sa pag-hire sang gwapo nga lalaki nga mag-upod sa imo sa paglantaw sang masubo nga mga pelikula agud magpahid sang imo luha.
Ang Ikemeso Danshi naga-translate sa “handsome weeping boys” kag gindesinyo agud mag- promote sang emotional release ukon “tear therapy,” nga nagabulig sa mga kliyente nga magpautwas sang stress kag mabatyagan nga may nagasuporta sa ila nga tawo kag gwapo pa.
SHS graduate nga wala sang upod nga ginikanan, gin-updan sang iya ido sa graduation
Siling nila, ang mga ido gid man ang makabig nga pinaka-loyal nga abyan sang tawo kag ini ang ginpamatud-an sang isa ka estudyante kag sang iya ido didto sa Cagayan.
Nasaksihan sang mga tawo ini nga makatalandog-balatyagon nga eksena sa Tuguegarao, Cagayan sang isa ka senior high school graduate ang gin-updan sang iya hinuptanan nga ido sa pinakaespesyal nga adlaw sang iya kabuhi.
Sa baylo nga ginikanan ang mag-upod sa iya sa graduation, ang hinuptanan nga ido nga si Browny ang nangin kaupod ni Jamaica Cabral.
Ang litrato kag video nila nga magkaupod sa seremonya nag-viral matapos ipost sa social media.
Bisan pa man masubo nga wala sang pamilya nga present, ginpabatyag ni Jamaica nga wala siya nagaisahanon — si Browny ang iya padayon nga kaupod sa kabudlayan kag kalipay.
Sang ginlawag na si Jamaica sa entablado, nag-behave lang si Browny kag nag-upod pa sa iya, daw kaangay sang isa ka suod nga abyan nga nagapakita sang suporta.
Gintugutan man sang mga school staff ang presensya ni Browny bangud wala ini nagatuga sang problema kag nagpakita sang husto nga pamatasan.
Nagbilib naman ang mga tawo bangud sa espesyal nga pagpalangga sang estudyante kag sang iya ido sa isa kag isa.
Nobya,naimpeksyon ang ilong matapos gin-ototan sang iya nobyo
Indi lahog- lahog ang nadangtan sang isa ka babaye sa United States matapos mag-angkon sang malala nga impeksiyon sa sinus nga nagsugod bangud sa utot sang iya nga nobyo.
Suno kay Christine Connell, nag-umpisa ang iya masakita sang 2016.
Sa iya pagsaysay, nagahigda siya sa kama sang hinali lang nag-utot ang iya nobyo direkta sa iya nawong.
Sa una, nagkadlaw lang sila sa natabo apang makaligad ang pila ka adlaw, nakabatyag si Christine sang barado nga ilong, sakit sang ulo, sip-on kag hilanat.
Naglala ang sintomas kag naglawig sang tinuig tubtob napilitan siya nga magpalantaw sa mga doktor.
Nadiskubrehan nga may Escherichia coli o E.
coli masami nga makit-an sa tinai kag indi sa ilong.
Suno sa mga eksperto, posible nagsulod ang bacteria sa lawas ni Christine bangud maluya ang iya nga immune system.
Pila ka ka mga bulong ang iya gintilawan apang nagabalik-balik ang impeksiyon.
Bangud sini, ginkonsiderar sang doktor nga operahan ini kag kakason ang infected nga tissue sa iya nga ilong.
Pahanumdom niya nga indi pagpabay-an ang mga sintomas kag samtang temprano pa, ipalantaw na ini sa doctor agud indi na maglala pa.
Panugyan man sini sa tanan nga kun mahimo, likawan nga ototan ang sin-o man nga tawo bangud basi matabo man ini sa ila.
Panganod nga kaangay sang imahe ni Birhen Maria, nagtuhaw sa ibabaw sang simbahan
Nag-agaw sang atensyon sang mga pilgrims sa katapusan nga adlaw sang National Youth Day (NYD) Cáceres 2025 sa Naga City, Camarines Sur matapos nga nagtuhaw ang panganod nga ang hurma ang kaangay sang imahe ni Birhen Maria.
Natabuan gid nga may ginapatigayon nga closing mass kag programa sa lugar.
Nagtuhaw ini sa ibabaw sa Basilica Minore of Peñafrancia.
Tuman naman nga ginkalipay sang mga pilgrims ang ila nakita nga patimaan, suno sa ila, nga ginaubayan sila sang kalangitan sa ila nga kahiwatan.
‘Gin-save sang traffic’: Estudyante, na-late sa iya flight, nakaluwas sa Air India plane crash
Nangin “blessing in disguise” ang pagka-late sang isa ka estudyante kun ngaa nakaluwas ini sa posible nga kamatayon sang nagtibusok ang eroplano nga iya kuntani sakyan halin sa India.
Istorya ini ni Bhoomi Chauhan, 28-anyos nga business administration student sa Bristol, England nga nagbakasyon sa western India para sa holiday.
Suno kay Chauhan, naatrasar siya sa pagkadto sa airport bangud naipit siya sa traffic.
Nag-abot siya sa paluparan sa Ahmedabad dies minutos matapos nga nag-umpisa ang boarding process.
Wala na siya ginpasugtan sang staff nga makakadto sa seat 36G sa Boeing 787 bisan pa nga naka-check-in siya online.
Pila ka ginutlo lang ang nagligad matapos ang take-off, nagtibusok na ang eroplano kag masobra sa 260 ang napatay.
Para kay Chauhan, milagro ini nga hitabo.
Ini kag ang isa ka lone survivor nga British national nga si Vishwashkumar Ramesh amo ang pila sa “miracle stories” sa sini nga plane crash.
Base sa airline company, sakay man sa eroplano kag napatay sa amo nga trahedya ang British, Indian, Portuguese kag Canadian nationals.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang Indian authorities kun ngaa natabo ang pag-crash.#
Mga squatter sa isa ka lugar, nagpatakod sang alarm system para protektahan ang balay nga ila illegal nga ginaokupa
Isa ka grupo sang mga squatter sa banwa sang San Miguel de Pedroso, Burgos Province sa Spain ang sentro sang atensyon matapos sila nagpatakod sang alarm system agud bantayan ang isa ka balay nga ila nga illegal nga gin-okupa.
Suno sa mga residente sang lugar, ang balay ang madugay na nga wala ginaistaran sang tag-iya sang halos duha ka dekada.
Gani ginhingalitan ini sang mga squatters.
Apang sa baylo nga sekretuhon, ginhaboy nila ang tanan nga daan nga gamit sa bintana, nagdala sang ila nga kagamitan kag nagpatakod pa sang alarm system — kumpleto sa paandam nga “NO ENTRY.”
Gintuyo pa sang mga ini nga magparehistro sa lokal nga otoridad agud himuon nga legal ang ila nga pagtinir sa lugar apang wala ginpasugtan.
Magluwas sa balay, gin-angkon man sang mga squatter ang tupad nga bakante nga lote kag ginhimo nga kurungan sang ila nga mga ido.
Tatlo ka reklamo na ang ginpasaka sang orihinal nga tag-iya apang wala pa sang tikang ang otoridad.
Mga jobless nga pamatan-on, nagabayad sa peke nga kumpanya para mag-pretend nga busy/employed
Isa ka pinasahi nga trend ang nagakatabo subong sa China kun sa diin ang pamatan-on nga wala sang trabaho mismo ang nagabayad sa mga peke nga kumpanya agud magpakuno-kuno nga may trabaho sila — bisan wala sila sang ginakita diri.
Sa bayad nga 30 tubtob 50 yuan kada adlaw (katumbas ng ₱250–₱400 ukon $4–$7), ginatugutan sang mga ginatawag nga “pretend-to-work companies” ang sin-o man nga makaeksperyensiya sang working environment.
Kalakip diri ang opisina, desk, libre nga Wi-Fi, kag pantry.
Para nga daw mas matuod ang ila pagpakuno-kuno, pwede sila magbayad sang dugang para sa mga peke nga ulubrahon, peke nga boss, kag magpakuno-kuno nga may kaaway sila nga kaangay man nila nga mga “empleyado.”
Sang Marso, narekord ang youth unemployment rate sa 16.5% para sa mga edad 16 tubtob 24 (wala nalakip ang mga estudyante), kag 7.2% para sa mga edad 25 tubtob 29.
Sa padayon nga pagtaas sang numero sang mga wala sang trabaho, nangin popular ang ini nga “work simulation” bilang alternatibo nga kalingawan.
Apisar pinasahi, ginasalamin sini ang kultura sa trabaho sa China kun sa diin ang mismo nga balatyagon nga Masako ang indibidwal ang tuman ka importante — bisan peke.
Live streamer, gin-aresto matapos nagsuksok sang panty sa nawong
Gin-aresto sang mga otoridad sa Chiba Prefecture, Japan ang isa ka 51-anyos nga streamer nga kilala bilang si “Zokkunzokkun” matapos maglibot sa isa ka residential area nga may suksok nga panty sa iya nawong.
Tuyo kuntan sang lalaki nga makakuha sang mas mada­mo nga viewers sa iya nga online livestream, apang nagresulta ini sa iya nga pagkapreso kag pagpakamalaot sang publiko.
Natabo ang insidente sa syudad sang Ichikawa.
Nakasuksok si Zokkunzokkun sang puti nga gym uniform, pula ka bloomers, kag pink nga underwear nga nakatabon sa iya nga ilong kag bibig.
Gin-livestream niya ini samtang nagalibot sa mga balay.
Bangud diri, madamo nga residente kag online viewers ang nag-report sa iya sa pulis kag natigayon nga maaresto ini .
Gin-ako niya nga ginhimo niya ini para makadugan sang viewers sa iya nga channel nga may kapin 5,000 followers.
May iban naman nga nagkwestyon kun ngaa gindakop gid ini.
Nanindugan naman ang Chiba Prefecture nga ginapatuman lang nila ang nuisance prevention ordinance agud mapabilin nga matawhay ang komunidad nga wala sang aktibidad nga indi disente nga makit-an sang publiko.
Babaye nga patay-luyag sa lalaki sa punerarya, ginakadtuan ang tanan nga namatyan para makita siya
Ano ayhan ang masarangan mo nga himuon para lang sapakon ikaw sang imo nga crush?
May yara sang babayi nga naga-edad sang 33-anyos kag residente sang Pinhalzinho, Brazil ang nag-viral matapos gin-ako nga permi siya gakadto sa mga patay sa ila komunidad sa sulod sang duha ka tuig agud lang masapak sang iya crush nga isa ka undertaker.
Ang babayi ang ginkilala kay Daniela Signor, kag ang iya crush amo si Apollo Scariot, 31-anyos.
Suno kay Daniela, nakita niya si Apollo sang ini siya ang nagtambong sa lubong sang isa niya ka paryente sang tuig 2023.
Halin sadto, abaw, gulpyada lang nga nagka-crush ini kay Apollo kag gusto niya ini nga makuha ang atensyon sang lalaki.
Basi galibog ang ulo niyo kun ano ang buot silingon sang undertaker?
Amo ina sila ang mga tawo nga nagaasikaso sang mga patay, halin sa pag-embalsamar tubtob sa preparasyon sang haya kag lubong.
Ang ginahimo ni Daniela, nagakadto ini siya sa mga haya sa ila lugar.
Apang, wala sa gihapon nasapak ukon natalupangdan ni Apollo si Daniela bangud nga naka-focus ini sa iya nga trabaho.
Matapos ang masobra duha ka tuig nga pag-admire kag pag-antos ni Daniela, sa wakas, nasapakan gidman siya ni Apollo kag didto na nag-umpisa ang ila pag-estoryahanay.
Nag-abot gidman ang tion nga nangin magkarelasyon sila kag nagtapos sa kasal sang nagligad lang nga bulan.
Ang makahalam-ot lang kay sa adlaw mismo sang ila kasal, ginkakibot sang ila mga bisita sang nag-abot sila sa wedding venue nga sakay sa karo sang patay.
Bangud sang madamo nakibot, gin-explain sang couple sa likod sang ila pagpili sang karo sang patay bilang ila sakayan sa ila nga kasal.
Suno kanday Daniela kag Apollo, ini ang isa ka pamatuod nga ang matuod-tuod nga paghigugma handa maghulat, magsakripisyo, kag magpaubos bisan sa tunga sang mga tumalagsahon nga sitwasyon.
Gutom nga elepante, nangawat sang snacks sa isa ka tindahan
Kon ikaw ang ginagutom, sa diin ka gid bala masami nga nagapadulong?
Isa ka gutom nga elepante ang halin sa kakahoyan ang nagtuga sang kakugmat sa isa ka grocery store sa Thailand matapos ini naglakat halin sa malapit nga national park kag nangawat sang pagkaon gikan sa mga food shelves.
Makit-ang nga ang lalaki nga elepante nga kilala sa ngalan nga Plai Biang Lek, ang nagtindog anay sa guwa sang tindahan nga nahamtang sa kilid sang dalan malapit sa Khao Yai National Park sa northeastern Thailand, antes niya ginduso ang iya bug-os nga lawas agud makasulod sa tindahan.
Nag-untat ang elepante sa atubang sang counter, kalma lang nga nagkuha kag nagkaon sang mga snacks, kag wala gid sang nagpakita sang kahadlok bisan ginapanikasog sang mga trabahador sang national park nga paguwaon ini.
Pagkatapos, nag-atras siya pa-gwa halin sa tindahan samtang nagadala sang isa ka bag sang snacks gamit ang iya ilong.
Wala naman ini nagbilin sang dako nga kahalitan, apang lutak nga tinapak sa salog kag marka sa kisame lang.
Suno sa tag-iya sang tindahan, nakakaon ang elepante sang siyam (9) ka bags sang sweet rice crackers, isa ka sandwich, kag pila ka dried bananas.
Wala naman ini ginkadismaya sang tag-iya, kon sa diin, nagkadlaw pa matapos ang hitabo.
BACKFIRE: Lalaki nga hungod nga nagsunog sa isa ka restaurant, nasunog man
Literal nga nag-backfire sa suspek ang ginhimo sini nga pagsunog sa isa ka restaurant sa Melbourne, Australia.
Samtang ginahimo sang lalaki ang pagsunog, pati siya, nasunog man.
Base sa video sang pulis nga gin-post sa social media, nagsulod ang lalaki sa restaurant nga may dala nga fuel container.
Ginbubo niya ang unod sini sa may bar area.
Pagkadugay-dugay, nag-ibwal na ang kalayo, apang nadala pati ang iya nga bayo gani nga nagligid-ligid siya sa salog.
Nagdali-dali ini guwa kag nagsakay sa kotse nga nagakalayo pa ang bayo, apang sang ulihi nanaog naman ini kag nagligid para mapatay ang kalayo.
Nakapalagyo gid ini sang ulihi gamit ang kotse nga nagahulat sa guwa sang restaurant.
Suno sa pulis, may minor damages sa restaurant kag padayon nila nga ginapangita ang suspek.
Sigurado man ang awtoridad nga bisan nakapalagyo ang lalaki, nagapaidalom ini subong sa treatment bangud sa mga paso sa iya lawas bangud sa literal nga pag-“backfire” sang iya ginhimo.
Eskwelahan, nag-suspend sang klase sang nagdala sang granada ang estudyante sa ila classroom activity
Nagkinagual ang mga estudyante sa isa ka pampubliko nga eskwelahan matapos nagdala sang granada ang isa sa mga estudyante para sa classroom activity.
Hinali lang nga nagpagwa sang granada halin sa panahon sang World War II ang isa ka estudyante.
Ang “Show and Tell” ang classroom activity kun sa diin ginaganyat ng mga estudyante nga magdala sang isa ka bagay halin sa ila nga balay kag ipaathag ini sa klase bilang kabahin sang paghanas sa paghambal kag pagpakigbahin sang personal nga eksperyensya.
Suno sa head teacher nga si Jeanette Hart, gilayon niya nga ginkuha ang granada sa kamot sang bata kag ginbutang sa likod sang isa ka dako nga puno sa parking lot samtang ginahulat ang pag-abot sang mga otoridad.
Matapos ang maid-id nga pag-usisa gamit ang X-ray equipment, ginkumpirma sang military bomb experts nga indi na aktibo ang granada kag wala sang kasarang nga magsigabong.
Babaye, dululungan nga ginhimo nga nobyo ang 7 senior citizens
Ginpakamalaot ang isa ka babaye sa Atlantico, Colombia bangud dululungan sini nga ginhimo nga nobyo ang pito ka mga pensiyonado nga senior citizens sa ila nga lugar.
Ang babaye amo si Lina nga taga-Barranquilla City.
Suno kay Lina, masami nga palpak ang iya mga relasyon kun kaedad niya ang iya nobyo.
Sa katuyuan nga makaangkon sang emotional kag financial stability ang iya nga love life, napaminsaran niya nga makigrelasyon sa mas tigulang sa iya.
Nahibaluan niya nga lalagson siya sang mga tigulang bangud may tupadbalay siya sadto nga mal-am nga nagapangaluyag sa iya.
Agud makakilala sang mga pensyonado, nakakadto siya sa mga lugar nga ginatamba­yan sang mga masubo ka single nga mga tigulang nga lalaki.
Bangud sa iya nga estratehiya, nakabunit siya sang pito ka boyfriends nga sanday Carlos, Simon, Jesus, Pablo, Manuel kag duha ka iban pa.
Sa pihak sang pagkamalaot sa iya, ginsiling ni Lina nga gina-enjoy lamang niya ang kabuhi kag samtang wala nagareklamo ang iya mga nobyo, padayunon niya ang pagpakig-relasyon sa mga ini.
Police academy sa Japan, ginatudluan ang ila nga mga lalaki nga kadete nga mag-makeup
Isa ka police academy sa Japan ang nagatudlo sa ila nga mga lalaki nga kadete nga mag-makeup.
Kalakip na ang makeup training sa academy.
Ini amo ang Fukushimaken Keisatsugakko Police Academy sa Fukushima Prefecture nga nagapatuman sang pinasahi nga klase, kun sa diin ginatudluan ang 60 kadete kun paano maghimos sang kaugalingon gamit ang makeup kag husto nga­ grooming.
Suno sa akademya, kabahin ini sang pagtudlo sang importansya sang katinlo kag pagpabilin sang propesyonal nga imahe sa publiko.
Nakigbuylog ang akademya sa kilala nga Japanese­ cosmetics brand nga Shiseido, nga nagpadala sang ila nga mga beauty consultant para magtudlo sang insakto nga pag-moisturize sang panit, pagkay-o sang kilay kag buhok kag iban pa.
Magluwas sa Fukushima, ang Yamaguchi Police Academy ang nagahimo man sang amo nga programa kun sa diin ginatudluan ang mga pulis kun paano tinluan ang nawong.
Mga apo, ginhampangan kag ginkaon ang abo sang ila lolo
Isa ka iloy ang hinali lang ng nagsininggitan sa ila puluy-an sang natukiban nga ang ginhampangan sang iya kabataan amo ang abo sang ila lolo.
Gindumdom sang mga bata nga yab-ok lang ang unod sang suludlan sang abo sang ila lolo.
Suno kay Monica Long, isa ka single mom sa tatlo ka mga anak nga lalaki, ginbayaan niya ang mga anak nga naga-edad 2 kag 3 sa banyo samtang naga­handa siya para sa kaadlawan sang iya agot nga bata.
Sa sulod sang apat ka minuto, nahimo sang duha nga maglapta sang kaangay sang “pu­ti nga yab-ok” sa ila nga lawas kag salog kag possible nga nakaon pa nila ini.
Bangud masako sa pagpanglimpyo, gintinluan niya ini gamit ang vacuum.
Pila ka adlaw pa ang nagligad sang natukiban niya nga wala na sang unod ang suludlan sang abo sang iya napatay nga amay.
Sa pihak sang natabo, wala man nangakig ang iloy kag naham-ot pa gani ini sa iya kabataan kag nagapati siya nga bisan ang iya amay ang naham-ot man sa ginhimo sang mga apo.
Babaye nga gin-operahan sa tutunlan, hinali lang nga nag-angkon sang British accent kun maghambal
Isa ka indi ordinaryo nga medical case ang nagkibot sa mga doktor sa Western France matapos mag-angkon sang lain nga accent ang isa ka babaye nga residente sa lugar bisan pa nga indi man ini makahibalo maghambal sa Ingles!
Siya ang gulpi lang nakahambal nga kaangay sang isa ka Briton humalin sang gin-operahan ini sang 2010 agud kakson ang iya nga tonsils.
Apisar wala man siya sang madalom nga ihibalo sa lenggwahe nga Ingles, kaangay nga natural sa iya nga dila ang British accent kag siya mismo ang nakibot.
Matapos ang serye sang pag-check sa iya, na-diagnose si Laetitia nga may Foreign Accent Syndrome, isa ka rare condition nga mahimo nga idulot sang aksidente, stroke, ukon operasyon.
Sa pihak sang panibag-o nga estilo sang iya paghambal, natun-an na ni Laetitia nga batunon ini.
Linibo nga mga residente sa isa ka banwa, ‘na-high’ matapos nahaklo ang aso halin sa marijuana nga ginpangsunog sang otoridad
Nakibot ang masobra sa 25,000 residente sang banwa sang Lice sa Diyarbakir pro­vince sa Turkey matapos ginsunog sang mga otoridad ang masobra sa 20 ka tonelada nga nakum­piskar nga marijuana.
Bangud sa madamol nga aso, wala nakabukas sang bintana ang mga tawo kag wala man nakagwa sa sulod sang lima ka adlaw.
Madamo ang nakaeksperyensiya sang paglingin sang ulo, pagsuka, hallucination kag iban pa nga mga sintomas bangud sa nahaklo nga aso.
Suno sa isa ka grupo, apisar madinalag-on ang kampanya batok sa droga, sala ang nangin pamaagi sang pagsunog.
Ginsuhestyon sang grupo nga sa mas safe nga lugar kag may yara sang filter patigayunon ang kaangay nga operasyon agud malikawan ang epekto sa ikaayong lawas sang mga residente.
Pasahero sang eroplano, nagtulon sang rosarito matapos makakita sang ‘demonyo’ sa iya nga flight
Isa ka flight halin sa Savannah, Georgia padulong sa Miami, Florida ang nangin magamo samtang yara sa kahawaan matapos nangin bayolente ang isa ka pasahero, gin-atake ang mga flight attendants, kag nagtulon sang mga beads sang rosarito.
Hinali lang ini nagsinggitan sa eroplano nga American Airlines Flight 4162.
Suno sa mga pasahero, gindumdom sang isa ka flight attendant nga may medical emergency si Augustin gani gintinguhaan ini nga pakalmahon.
Apang hinali lang sini ginsipa ang flight attendant kag madamo pa gid ini sang ginhimo nga gamo.
Bangud diri, nagdesisyon ang piloto nga ibalik sa ginhalinan nga airport ang eroplano.
Pag-abot sa airport, nag-atake pa gid ini sang iban nga tawo.
Suno sa iya utod nga si Medjina Augustin, nga kaupod niya sa flight, pakadto sila sa Haiti agud malagyo gikan sa isa kag ‘spiritual attack’.
Bag-o mangin bayolente si Delange, ginpahayag niya nga may nakit-an siya nga mga alagad ni Satanas sa eroplan kag ginapunggan siya nga makalab-ot sa Haiti.
Sa tunga-tunga sang komosyon, gintulon pa ni Delange ang isa kag rosarito nga amo ang pangontra niya batok sa malain nga mga espiritu.
Gindala naman ini sa ospital matapos gintulon ang rosarito.
Padayon man ang imbestigasyon sa insidente kag ginpasakaan sang kaso si Augustin sang kaso nga misdemeanor battery, misdemeanor obstruction of police, kag felony criminal pro­perty damage.
Lalaki, gindemanda ang sinehan bangud sa tuman ka damo nga pasayod antes ginpagwa ang pelikula
Isa ka 31-anyos nga abogado sa Bangalore, India ang nagdaug sa iya nga demanda batok sa isa ka dako nga movie theater chain matapos mauyang ang iya nga oras sa paglantaw sang mga pasayod bag-o ang mismo nga pelikula.
Suno kay Abhishek M R, sang nagkadto siya sa sinehan, ginlauman niya ga magsugod ang pelikula sa husto nga oras base sa schedule.
Apang nagbag-o ang dalagan sang gab-i sang mabayluhan ang ginalauman nga pagsugod sang pelikula sang halos 30 minutos nga mga pasayod.
Bangud diri, natapos ang pelikula sang isa ka oras nga late sa orihinal nga schedule, rason nga napaiway niya ang isa ka importante nga tawag sa trabaho.
Suno kay Abhishek, isa ini ka halimbawa sang “unfair trade practice” kag gindeklarar nga nauyang lang ang iya oras kag nangin kabangdanan sang tuman nga stress.
Indi lamang basta reklamo ang iya ginpasaka bangud ginpursige niya ang kaso sa Bangalore District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.
Matapos ang hearing, nagpagwa sang desisyon ang korte pabor kay Abhishek.
Ginpabayad sang korte ang sinehan sang malapit 6 million pesos.
Ang kadalag-an ni Abhishek ang nagahatag sang importansya sa consumer rights sa amo nga pungsod.
Eroplano, 10 minutos nga naglupad nga wala sang piloto bangud sa medical emergency
Paano kun nagasakay ka sa eroplano tapos nahibaluan mo nga wala gali sang piloto?
Amo sini ang eksena sa isa ka flight nga may sakay nga 199 ka mga pasahero kag anum ka crew members.
Suno sa Civil Aviation Accident and Incident Investigation Commission sang Espanya, nagguwa ang piloto sa cockpit kag nagkadto sa lavatory samtang ginbilin naman sini ang iya nga co-pilot.
Apang ano man nga kadimalason nga gulpi lang nga nalipong ang co-pilot samtang wala pa nakabalik ang iya upod.
Base pa sa report sang komisyon, may mga nabatian pa sa voice recorder nga mga huni sang gulpi lang nga nalipong ang piloto nga yara sa cockpit.
Nagtinguha ang air traffic controller sang tatlo ka beses agud nga malab-ot ang co-pilot apang wala gid sang nagasabat.
Samtang, sang nakaguwa na halin sa bathroom, gintinguhaan sang isa ka piloto nga buksan ang puertahan sa cockpit sang lima gid ka beses gamit ang standard code apang indi ini magbukas.
Bisan nga nagbutang na ang cockpit crew member sang intercom call sa flight deck, gina-deny sa gihapon ang access.
Bangud sini, gingamit na lang sang kapitan ang emergency code agud nga makakuha liwat sang access sa eroplano.
Suno pa sa report sang komisyon, dali-dali man nga ginhatagan sang first aid ang co-pilot sa bulig sang crew kag doctor nga isa sa mga pasahero sa amo nga flight.
Halos dies minutos man nga naglupad ang eroplano nga wala sang piloto, apang maswerte lang nga wala sang malain nga natabo.
Ginpahugpa anay ang eroplano sa lain nga lugar agud nga madala sa ospital ang co-pilot.
Sa pagpangusisa sang doctor, natukiban nga nalipong ang co-pilot bangud sa preexisting neurological condition nga wala siya nakahibalo nga gina-suprer niya ilabi na bangud wala man ini na-detect sa iya nga aeronautical medical examination.
Kasunod sang hitabo, ginsuspinde anay ang iya nga medical certificate.
Nagpasalig naman ang kumpaniya nga maga-kooperar ini sa imbestigasyon sang Spanish authorities, magluwas pa sa kaugalingon nga imbestigasyon sang ila nga safety department.
Kuring, ‘arestado’ sa pagpalusot sang iligal nga droga sa presuhan
Indi basta-basta nga mga kunsekwensya ang atubangon sang mga tawo nga madakpan nga may kaangtanan sa iligal nga droga.
Apang paano abi kun ang madakpan indi tawo?
Sa Pococi, Costa Rica, arestado ang isa ka kuring bangud sa krimen nga pagdala sang illegal drugs sa sulod sang presuhan.
Nagduda ang mga opisyal sa Pococi Penitentiary sang nakit-an ang kuring nga nagalakat-lakat kag may nakaputos nga tela sa iya lawas.
Gingunting nila ang tela kag didto nakit-an ang mga pakete sang marijuana, 70 gramos sang cocaine paste, kag duha ka papel nga ginagamit nga drug paraphernalia.
Ginbansagan ang kuring nga si “Narcomishi,” ukon “Narco Kitten,” kag sang ulihi gintugyan ini sa National Animal Health Service (SENASA).
Ginpasalig sang awtoridad nga maayo ang pagtatap sang pasilidad sa kuring apisar pa nga may record ini sa illegal drugs.
Sandig sa otoridad, may nauna na sila na-encounter nga kaso sang 2018 kun sa diin kuring man ang nadakpan nga magpalusot sang mga kontrabando.
Sang amo nga tuig, ang ginpadala sa kuring amo ang earphone, charger, kag cellphone nga may yara pa sang extra battery nga ginalantaw tuyo nga ipagamit sa preso.
Department of Energy, naka-eksperyensya sang brownout samtang nagapadayon ang presscon
Hinali nga nagluntad ang power outage sa Department of Energy (DOE) samtang ginapatigayon ang press conference kun sa diin gina-istoryahan ang bastante nga suplay sang kuryente sa pungsod.
Natabo ini subong nga Huwebes, Mayo 15, samtang nga nagasabat gid ang energy officials sa mga pamangkot sang reporters kaangot sa abilidad sang grid nga malab-ot ang nagasaka nga electricity demand sa Pilipinas.
Naglab-ot pa sa dies minutos ang kalawigon sang pagka-utod sang suplay sang kuryente antes ini nabalik sa building.
Paathag ni Energy Secretary Raphael Lotilla, isa lamang ka “isolated incident” ang natabo nga power outage.
Dugang sini, ang naapektuhan lamang amo ang Building 5 sang Philippine National Oil Company sa sulod sang DOE compound sa Taguig City.
Naglahog man ini nga posible nga wala nasarangan sang electrical infrastructure nga ma-handle ang electrical needs sang equipment sang mga journalists nga yara sa hulot kun sa diin may presscon.
Nahibaluan nga santo sa forecast sang DOE, ang power demand sa Luzon ang magalab-ot sa 14,769 megawatts (MW) sa tunga sang mainit nga tyempo.
Ini ang 5% nga mas mataas sa peak demand sang 2024 nga yara sa 14,016 MW.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginsiling nga ang peak demand naman ang magalab-ot sa 3,111 MW sa Visayas kag 2,789 MW sa Mindanao.
68-anyos nga babayi sa Zurich, ginpasakaan sang kaso matapos gin-akusaran nga nagapakaon sang kuring sang iya tupad balay sa sulod sang 10 ka bulan
Ginpasakaan sang kaso sa korte ang isa ka 68-anyos nga babayi sa Zurich matapos gin-akusaran nga nagapakaon sang kuring sang iya tupad balay sa sulod sang 10 ka bulan.
Suno sa reklamo sang biktima, ginpakaon sang pensionada nga babayi ang ila kuring nga si Leo bisan pa man nga ginpaandaman na siya sa sulat nga untatan ang iya gina-ubra.
Sa baylo nga mag-untat, ginbutangan pa sang babayi sang cat flap ang iya pwertahan agud makasulod kag makagwa ang amo nga kuring.
Bangud sini, nag-untat na si Leo sa pagbalik sa iya tag-iya kag wala na ginakaon ang ginahanda nga pagkaon para sa iya.
Gani, nagsumiter sang pormal nga reklamo ang tag-iya sa public prosecutor’s office, nga nagresulta sa multa nga 800 Swiss francs (mga ₱54,000), kag suspended fine nga 3,600 francs (mga ₱244,000) para sa “unlawful appropriation” ukon pagpang-angkon sang indi iya nga kabuhi.
Apang, nagpanginwala ang 68-anyos nga babayi nga bayaran ang multa, rason nga nakalab-ot ini sa korte.
Suno sa layi sa Switzerland, indi sala ang magpakaon sang kuring sang iban nga tawo kun indi lang permi-permi.
Nag-atubangay na duha ka mga personalidad sa Zurich District Court upod ang ila tagsa-tagsa nga mga abogado sa isa ka closed-door hearing.
Sa katapusan, ginpasugtan na sang tag-iya ang babayi nga padayon nga magpabilin si Leo sa iya, kag gin-bawi sang tag-iya ang reklamo.
Eroplano, nag-emergency landing sa lugar nga may mga buwaya; Mga sakay sini, 36 oras pa ang ginhulat antes nakaguwa
May yara sang isa ka istorya sa Bolivia nga duha ka beses gid nga nabutang sa ital-ital ang kabuhi sang lima ka tawo, apang milagro lamang nga nakaluwas sila tanan.
Myerkules sang nagbyahe ang lima sakay sa eroplano halin sa Bolivian village sang Baures kag pakadto kuntani sa Trinidad para sa isa ka medical check-up sa anum ka tuig nga bata.
Samtang yara na sa Amazonas region, hinali lang nga nadula ang eroplano sa radar sang Beni Department.
May natabo gali nga engine failure rason nga ginpili sang piloto nga magpatigayon sang emergency landing sa Itanomas River.
Apang ano man nga kamalason bangud nakaluwas matuod sila sa posible nga pag-crash sang eroplano, apang halos indi sila makaginhawa sang natalupangdan nila kun sa diin sila naghugpa.
Suno sa piloto nga si Pablo Andrés Velarde, 27, nakit-an nila nga napalibutan sila sang mga buwaya nga halos tres metros na lang ang distansya halin sa eroplano.
Halos makurog sila sang kakulba sang may nasiplatan nga may anaconda pa gid sa tubig.
Bangud nabutang sa peligro ang ila kabuhi, ginpili nila ang magtinir anay sa eroplano kag indi magguwa.
Tatlo ka mga babaye, isa ka bata nga anum ka tuig, kag ang piloto ang yara sa plane suno sa Beni Department emergency operations center.
Bangud na-detect naman nga nadula sila sa radar, ginpatigayon ang search and rescue mission.
36 oras pa ang ginlawig antes sila nakit-an sang rescuers sa bulig sang isa ka manugpangisda nga amo ang nakasiplat sa aircraft.
Suno sa awtoridad, posible nga wala nakapalapit ang mga buwaya bangud may yara sang petrol nga naga-leak halin sa eroplano, apisar nga wala man sang scientific proof nga nagapahayag nga isa ini ka effective alligator repellent.
Samtang didto nagahulat sang rescue, nagkaon ang lima sang cassava flour nga dala sang isa ka pasahero, apang gin-agwanta lang anay nila ang kauhaw bangud sa kahadlok nga kan-on sila sang buwaya kun magguwa sila sa aircraft.
Sa subong, yara pa sa ospital ang isa ka babaye bangud sa pilas sa iya nga ulo.
Na-discharge naman ang iban kag naga-recover na sa dehydration, minor chemical burns, infected cuts, bruises kag insect bites sa madamo nga parte sang ila lawas.
Presidente sang isa ka pungsod, nagpatigayon sang press conference nga naglawig sang 15 oras
Pat-ud nga wala pa siguro sa inyo nakabati kag nakabasa sang isa ka press conference nga naglawig sang masobra tunga sa adlaw.
Pero subong may mabatian kag mabasahan na kamo.
Didto sa Maldives, naghimo sang record ang ila lider nga si President Mohamed Muizzu matapos nagpatigayon ini sang isa ka press conference sang malapit sa 15 ka oras.
Ginsiling niya nga gin-guba sini ang previous record ni Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky.
Si Muizzu, 46, ang nagsugod sang iya marathon press conference sang Sabado sa 10:00 am kag nagpadayon tubtob sa 14 hours kag 54 minutes.
Ang conference nag-extend sang lapaw na sa tungang-gab-i.
Sang October 2019, ang Ukraine’s National Records Agency nag-claim nga ang 14-hour press conference ni Zelensky ang nagguba sang una nga record sang kapin pito ka oras nga gin-uyatan sang Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko.
Ginhimo ni Muizzu ang press conference sa intension nga mandungan man ini sa World Press Freedom Day sang Sabado.
Diri ginkilala niya ang crucial role sang press sa sosyodad kag ang importansia sang matuod, balanse kag patas nga reporting.
Kapin 20 naman ka mga reporters ang nagtambong sa amo nga event.
Fuji sang Martes, gin-rescue liwat matapos ginbalikan sini ang iya cellphone
Duha ka beses gid nga nagkinahanglan sang rescue ang isa ka lalaki nga nagsaka sa Mt.
Fuji sa Japan matapos sini ginbalikan ang iya nabilin nga cellphone.
Ini amo ang 27-anyos nga estudyante halin sa China nga temporaryo nga nagatinir sa Japan.
Sang Martes, samtang yara na siya sa trail, indi na ini makapanaog bangud nadula sini ang iya crampons nga amo ang spiked device nga ginabutang sa climbing shoes para mas maayo ang ila paglakat.
Gintawgan pa ini sang helicopter agud nga makahalin lang siya sa amo kataas nga area.
Apang pagkasunod nga adlaw, nareyalisar niya nga nabilin gali ang iya cellphone.
Bangud tuman ini ka importante para sa iya, ginbalikan gid sini ang iya phone bisan pa nga wala na ginapanugyan ang pag-hike didto sa area.
Sang didto siya sa ibabaw, naglain ang iya pamatyag bangud sa kataason, kag bangud sini, duha ka beses gid siya nga gin-rescue sang otoridad sa sulod lamang sang apat ka adlaw.
May mga nagamuno sa lalaki kun ngaa wala sini ginasunod ang protocol, kag nagpanawagan man ang mga tawo sa iya nga magbayad bangud sa duha ka rescue missions nga ginhimo bangud lang sa iya pagpasaway.
Nahibaluan nga kun indi gani official climbing season sa Mt Fuji, ginasirado ang tanan nga trails pakadto sa summit kag ginapanawagan man ang mga tawo nga indi anay mag-hike.
Sang 2023, masobra 220,000 ka mga tawo ang nagsaka sa popular nga Mount Fuji sa tunga-tunga sang Hulyo kag Septyembre.#
Grupo sang mga lalaki sa Georgia, naghampang sang basketball game sa record-breaking nga 121 hours
Sin-o sa inyo ang pirme lang ginaakigan sa balay bangud basketball lang ang gina-obra, kag kun magpuli, mamangkot lang dayon kay Nanay kun ano ang sud-an?
Kun sa mga amo sini nga bagay, gina-ugtasan ang hampang, lain naman ang natabo didto sa Georgia kun sa diin ginhungod gid nga palawigon ang paghampang sang ball game nga naglawig sang 121 oras kag tatlo ka minutos.
23 sila nga naghampang nga naga-edad 17-anyos tubtub sa 64-anyos.
Gin-require sila nga magtinir sa gym sa bilog nga hampang bisan sa ila nga short break.
Nagbuslanay lang sila sa hampang, malip-ot lamang ang pahuway, nagatulog-tulog samtang yara man sa gym, kag ginbantayan man sang opisyal halin sa Guinness World Record.
Ang players lunsay katapo sang Men Opposing Sex Trafficking (MOST)nga isa ka Atlanta-based nonprofit organization.
Sila ang nagsugod sang lima ka adlaw nga marathon agud nga mapakilala ang ila kawsa kag agud nga makatipon sang pondo.
Natukod ang MOST sang 2022 agud mag-edukar ang iban nga mga lalaki nga magbulig nga matapna ang sex trafficking.
Ini nga nonprofit nagalakip na sang data analysts kag interdiction team sang former military kag law enforcement professionals nga nagabulig sa sting operations and prevention sa bilog nga pungsod.
Sang ginhimo nila ang word record, gin-livestream man sila kag naghatag naman sang donasyon ang ila nga supporters.
Sa kabug-usan, nakatipon matuod ang grupo sang masobra $300,000 ukon masobra sa P17.2-million para sa ila nga misyon.#
Lalaki sa Japan, indi happy nga “Happy” ang iya pangalan
Kilalahon ta si Happy, ang lalaki nga indi happy sa iya pangalan.
Sang ginbun-ag ini nga lalaki sa Japan, ginhatagan siya sang iya iloy sang pangalan nga Happy bangud sa kalipay nga dulot sang pag-abot niya sa ila pamilya.
Apang sang nagdako ini, madamo na ang nagasunlog sa iya nga mga bata kag ginakadlawan siya.
Ang pag-bully sa iya nagpadayon bisan nga yara na siya sa high school kag kolehiyo.
Bisan sa iya lovelife, malas man ang dala sang iya pangalan.
Mangin sa iya pagpangita sang trabaho, wala man siya ginaseryoso sang kompaniya kun sa diin siya naga-apply sang trabaho bangud sa iya pangalan.
Maswerte na lang nga may isa ka kompaniya nga nag-hire sa iya bangud ginkabig ang iya pangalan nga good omen kag nakapangita siya sang trabaho.
Sa pihak sini, tubtob subong, indi gihapon matago ni Happy nga unhappy siya sa iya pangalan.
Sa pagkamatuod, gintuyo pa niya sadto nga paislan na lang ang iya pangalan apang indi man niya luyag nga maglain ang buot sang iya iloy.
Matapos nga naglapta sa Japan ang iya istorya, madamo naman ang nagpabutyag sang suporta kag gin-engganyo siya nga mangin positibo gihapon sa kabuhi kag ikabuhi ang iya pangalan nga HAPPY.
63-anyos nga babaye, nagluib sa bana, nakigrelasyon sa ka-chat nga nagpakilala nga si Enrique Iglesias
Kun grabe ang imo pagdayaw kag pag-idolo sa isa ka artista, ma-imagine mo ayhan ang imo reaksyon kun isa ka adlaw, i-chat ka niya kag halos adlaw-adlaw na kamo naga-istoryahanay?
Indi mo gid mabasol ang 63-anyos nga Lola nga si Guadalupe Cepeda didto sa Los Angeles, USA kun nga grabe gid ang iya kilig sang natabo ini sa iya.
Ang iya idol sa sulod na sang duha ka dekada amo ang Spanish musician nga si Enrique Iglesias nga isa sa best-selling Latin music artists.
Miyembro si Lola Guadalupe sang isa ka online fan page ni Enrique.
Isa ka adlaw, may nag-message sa iya nga nagpakilala nga si Enrique, kag bangud miyembro siya gani sang fans sini, wala na siya nakibot kun ngaa siya gid ang ginpili nga istoryahan.
Bisan kasado si Lola Guadalupe kag buhi pa ang iya bana, nakabatyag gid siya sang tuman nga kilig tubtub nga nahulog gid ang iya buot kay Enrique.
Sa malawig nila nga pag-istoryahanay, nagplano na si Lola Guadalupe nga bulagan sini ang iya bana, kag mag-upod sa Spanish superstar.
Planado na ini sa iya pinsar, apang antes ina natabo, namutikan niya nga ginapangayuan siya sang kuwarta.
Bangud palangga sini si Enrique, nagpadala man siya, apang bangud pirme ini nagakatabo kag dolyar-dolyar na ang nadula sa iya, nagprangka siya nga wala na siya sang kuwarta.
Ginsugo pa siya sang superstar nga magpangawat sa iya bana kun gusto gid sini nga mag-updanay sila sa ulihi.
Nadiskubrehan naman sang bana nga si Martin Perez nga may “affair” ang iya asawa sang nabukaran ang iya cellphone.
Siyempre ang lauman mo amo nga ma-akig siya, apang labaw sa kaakig, nangin mas mabudlay para sa iya nga papatihon ang iya asawa nga indi si Enrique ang iya ka-istorya kundi isa ka scammer.
Bisan na-locate na ang scammer nga taga-Nigeria, indi gid magpati si Lola Guadalupe bangud tuman niya ini ka palangga.
Gindala na ang istorya sa telebisyon ang istorya, kag nahibal-an na sang halos tanan ang relasyon ni Lola Guadalupe sa scammer nga nagapakuno-kuno nga si Enrique.
Didto man nagpanawagan ang bana kay Enrique nga kun mag-abot man sa iya ini nga istorya, kuntani makumbinse sini si Guadalupe nga nabiktima lamang ini sang scam kag indi matuod nga magkarelasyon sila nga duha.
Ini ini ang una nga bes nga may nabiktima sang scam nga kaangay sini, bangud may 63-anyos man anay nga French woman nga nadulaan sang daku nga kantidad sang kuwarta bangud ginpadala man sini sa iya karelasyon nga ginpatihan sini nga amo ang Hollywood heartthrob nga si Brad Pitt.
Statue of Liberty nga ginregalo sa US, dapat nga bawion na lang —French deputy
Ginduso sang isa ka French Euro-deputy center-left politician nga ibalik na lang sang Estados Unidos sa France ang gin-regalo sini anay nga Statue of Liberty.
Ang gintumod sini nga rason amo bangud wala na gina-representar sang United States of America ang “values” nga amo ang nagtulod anay sa France nga ihatag ang estatwa bilang gift.
So it will be just fine here at home,'” pahayag pa niya.
May kaangay man sini nga estatwa sa Seine sa Paris apang mas magamay lamang.
Nahibaluan nga si Glucksmann ang taga-suporta sang Ukraine kag isa siya sa nagapakamalaot sa kay US President Donald Trump bangud sa panindugan sini sa Russia-Ukraine war.
Ginmuno man sang French ang pagbuhin ni Tump sang suporta sa US research institutions rason nga naghingyo na lang ang French government sa pila sa mga eksperto nga sa ila na lang mag-trabaho.
Sang nagbalik si Trump sa White House sang Enero, matandaan nga gin-utod sang iya gobyerno ang pila sa federal research funding kag ginpahalin sa trabaho ang ginatos nga federal workers sa health and climate research.
Babaye nga halos 1-week na-trap sa salakyan, nakaluwas paagi sa tubig nga na-absorb sang iya jacket
Ang pagka-trap sa salakyan ang isa sa mga hitabo nga wala sang bisan isa sa aton ang gusto ma-eskperyensyahan.
Delikado ini ilabi na sa mga bata gani nga extra halong gid kita kag bantayan sila sang maayo.
Apang didto sa Newton County sa Indiana, USA, isa ka milagro ang natabo sa isa ka 41-anyos nga babaye sang tion nga siya ang na-trap sa sulod sang iya kaugalingon nga salakyan.
Suno sa Newton County Sheriff’s Office, ini nga babaye nga ginkilala kay Brieonna Cassell, 41, ang naga-drive halin sa Newton County Landfill sang Marso 6 antes siya gin-report nga missing sa mga otoridad.
Nagguwa gali nga natulugan si Cassell samtang naga-maneho kag nagbunggo ang iya car kag nahulog sa pil-as nga indi kit-anon sa mga tawo nga yara sa highway.
Puerte nga kasakit ang nabatyagan ni Cassell sa iya lawas, nagsinggit siya agud mangayo sang bulig sa mga salakyan nga mabatian niya nga nagaagi apang indi man niya makita.
Naglawig sang anum ka adlaw nga amo sini ang sitwasyon ni Cassel sa sulod sang salakyan bangud indi siya makaguwa kag halos madulaan na sang paglaum.
Apang sang tion nga nakit-an na gid man siya, conscious ini kag nagahambal pa.
Pahayag sang pamilya, nakaluwas si Cassell paagi sa iya jacket nga iya ginatusmaw sa tubig nga yara sa creek kun sa diin nahulog ang iya salakyan.
Kun matusmaw na niya ini kag ma-absorb na sini ang tubig, gina-amat-amat niya ini butong kag gina-supsop ang tubig para mabuhinan ang iya kauhaw.
Sang nakit-an siya kag gindala sa ospital, nakit-an ang injuries sa iya nga paa, sa iya nga tyan, sa iya nga butkon kag iban nga parte sang lawas.
Gin-airlift man ini agud nga madala sa Chigaco hospital para sa treatment.
Ginapahayag nga stable na subong ang kondisyon sini.
Excited na ang iya pamilya nga maka-pauli ini, ilabi na bangud may tatlo ini ka kabataan nga nagahulat sa iya, nga amo man posible ang nangin inspirasyon sini nga magtinguha nga mabuhi samtang yara sa mabudlay nga sitwasyon.#
Lalaki nga nagapangita sang away, nang-spray sang gasolina sa gas station
Sampaw-sampaw nga reklamo ang atubangon sang isa ka 33-anyos nga lalaki matapos ini nanghangkat sang away kag nag-spray pa sang gasolina sa isa ka gas station.
Natabo ini sa Barangay Poblacion Ward 2 sa Minglanilla, Cebu nga nakuhaan pa sang closed circuit television (CCTV).
Aga pa sang nagkadto ang lalaki nga si Mamerto Reyes Pandola III sa gas station, kag gin-alegar nga agresibo na nga daan, kag naghangkat gilayon sang tapungulay.
Isa sa iya ginhangkat amo ang operations manager sang gasolinahan nga iya man lang kasilingan.
Sunod sini nga ginkuha ang fuel hose kag didto na kag gin-spray sini ang gasolina sa palibot.
May ginkuha man ini nga botelya, kag sa kahadlok sang mga empleyado nga maglala pa ang iya himuon, gintawag ang pulis.
Naglab-ot sa masobra P2,000 ang balor sang gasolina nga gin-usik sang lalaki.
Gintinguhaan man sini nga magwaras sang nag-abot ang otoridad apang wala na ini sang nahimo sang ginposasan.
Sang yara na sa custodial facility, ginsiling sini nga indi na niya madumduman kun ano ang iya ginhimo.
Nagdepensa man siya nga indi siya hubog kag wala man suno sa iya nagagamit sang iligal nga droga.
‘Snail Man’ nga nagpatunga sa highway para sa iya vlog, kasuhan gid bisan nag-sorry
Indi gid makalusot sa kamot sang otoridad sa Cebu ang isa ka lalaki nga vlogger matapos ini nagpatunga sa dalan kag nagpakuno-kuno nga taklong kag nagtuga sang pagpug-ok sang trapiko.
Bisan naham-ot man ang iban nga followers sa ginhimo ni Boss LB (Brian ang matuod nga pangalan) madamo gid ang naugot sa epekto sini sa trapiko sa highway sa banwa sang Consolacion sa northern Cebu.
Si Boss LB mismo ang nag-share sang iya video nga nagakamang-kamang sa highway samtang suksok sang green-colored costume.
Ginatawag niya ang iya kaugalingon nga si Snail Man.
Bisan madamo na nga salakyan ang nagabusina sa iya, proud ini sa ginahimo kag naga-ngisi-ngisi pa sang nagpahigad na gid man ini sa dalan.
Masobra sa 18,700 ang reactions sa original video kag masobra 15,000 ang nag-share.
Apang bangud madamo man ang nag-bash sa iya, nag-paguwa siya sang public apology kag nagpadulong sa police station.
“Mo volunteer diay ko nga moadto sa Consolacion Police Station mangayo ko og pasaylo sa akong dakong sayop nga nabuhat nga dili maayo.
Og usa pa sad naka cause ko og kasamok sa dan diri sa Consolacion, naka cause ko og trapik ba, mangayo lang gyud ko og dakong pasaylo gyud tungod sa akoang gibuhat nga di mao.
Ilabi na nga naghatag og di maayong pagtulon-an sa mga bata,” kabahin sang Facebook post.
Sa pihak sini, nag-rekomendar ang Highway Patrol Group sa Central Visayas (HPG-7) nga pasakaan gid ini sang kaso bangud sa inconvenience nga natuga kag posible pa nga naaksidente ang iban bangud sa iya stunt.
Ginmanduan na ang legal team sang patrol group nga tumuron kun ano nga traffic violations ang nakomiter sang vlogger.
Nagpaandam man ang police station nga final warning na ini sa iban nga vloggers nga pilion man ang ila nga content kag magpili man sang lugar nga indi makaperwisyo sa iban nga mga tawo.
Pasahero nga na-late sa flight, nagdalagan sa runway agud balabagan ang eroplano
Kinaandan kun may yara kita sang flight, indi gid kita mahim-os kun isa ka oras na lang ang nabilin kag wala pa kita sa airport.
Ang iban gani, hapon pa ang schedule pero aga pa nagakadto sa paluparan.
Sa amo sini nga sitwasyon, may ginasunod nga airline policies para sa pag-rebook ukon maghimo sang alternative travel arrangements.
May airlines nga nagahatag sang brief grace period ukon “flat-tire rule”, apang kun wala sang polisa, may airlines naman nga nagamarka sang ticket nga no-show nga maga- cancel sang connecting ukon return flights.
Sa isa ka hitabo sa Chile, naatrasar gid ang isa ka flight sang na-late sang abot ang isa ka pasahero kag sa sobra sini ka desperado nga indi siya mabayaan, ginbanggaan sini ang eroplano.
Nagpatunga gid ang lalaki sa alagyan sang eroplano rason nga indi makahalin ang aircraft bisan nga ginmaniobra na sang pilots kag ready na gid kuntani sa flight.
Ginkadtuan sang staff sang airport ang lalaki kaupod ang security patrol, ginpaguwa sa runway, kag gintugyan sa pulisya.
Ang imbes gamay lang kuntani sini nga late, labi pa gid nga naglawig bangud sa proseso bangud kasuhan pa ini.
Base sa reports, pakadto kuntani ang 29-anyos nga pasahero sa Concepcion, Chile sakay sang Latam Airlines, apang bangud na-late siya, naglusot siya sa security, nagdalagan sa runway, kag nagtindog didto sang isa ka minuto.
10 minutes man ang delay sang flight nga sang ulihi naglupad gid nga wala ang amo nga pasahero.
Lalaki nga nahadlok sa linog, sa kweba na lang nag-istar
Kun si Toyang nagaistar sa kweba bangud isa ini ka ermitanya, ikaw, ano ayhan ang magtulod sa imo agud mag-istar man sa kweba?
Pero samtang nagapanumdom ka, istoryahan ko na lang ikaw natuhoy sa isa ka lalaki nga 2 ka tuig na nga nagapuyo sa sulod sang kweba.
Ini amo ang isa ka lalaki sa Turkey, ang pungsod nga gintay-og sang 7.8 magnitude nga linog sang 2023 kun sa diin madamo ang nagkalamatay.
Suno kay Ali Bozoğlan, amay sang tatlo ka kabataan halin sa southern province sang Hatay, nadula ang iya balay bangud sang linog.
Apisar nakaluwas sila sang iya pamilya, tuman nga nahadlok na ini sa linog gani nagdesisyon siya nga indi na mag-istar sa isa ka building nga ginhimo sang tawo.
Sa baylo, nakapangita siya sang isa ka gamay nga kweba malapit man sa ila ginaistaran kag ini ang ginhimo niya nga puluy-an.
Apisar wala niya nakumbinse ang iya pamilya nga mag-upod sa iya sa kweba, nalipay gihapon si Ali sa iya bag-o nga puluy-an bangud malinong diri kag matawhay.
Apisar madamo ang mga naghaboy sang malain nga mga komento batok sa iya, wala na lang ini ginasapak ni Ali bangud ini ang ginakabig niya nga pinakamatahum nga puluy-an.
Illiterate student, ginkasuhan ang High School nga nagpa-graduate sa iya nga ‘with honors’
Kun mag-graduate ikaw nga ‘with honors’, siyempre, malipay ka gid bangud bugal mo gid ini kag bunga sang imo pinangabudlayan bilang estudyante.
May isa ka babaye sa Connecticut, USA nga ginhatagan sini nga pagkilala, kag sa baylo nga malipay, ginkasuhan sini ang iya eskwelahan.
Istorya ini ni Aleysha Ortiz, 19, nga nabun-ag sa Puerto Rico kag nag-eskwela sa Hartford Public High School sa Hartford, Connecticut.
Suno kay Aleysia, bata pa lang siya, nabudlayan na siya sa pagtuon, kag nagpadayon ini bisan nga nagsaylo na sila sa United States.
Ginsiling sini nga indi basta-basta ang iya kondisyon bangud haluson siya gani maka-uyat sang lapis, kag ang iya pangbasa ang daw kaangay sa mga kabataan sa Grade 1.
Pag-abot sa high school, may yara sang special teacher nga gin-assign sa iya special case apang wala man ini sang binuligan suno kay Aleysha.
Sang isa ka bulan na lang ang nabilin antes ang graduation sang Hunyo, nag-conduct na gid man ang teacher sang dugang nga test nga amo ang iya ginahingyo, kag didto nareyalisar niya nga virtually illiterate man siya gihapon.
Suno pa kay Aleysha, gintanyagan siya sang school district officials nga makabaton siya sang graduation diploma kabaylo sang intensive services, apang ginbalibaran niya ini.
Apang naka-graduate siya gihapon sa high school nga with honors nga nagakahulugan nga nagdemonstar siya sang academic excellence.
Nakakuha pa siya sang college scholarship, apang gindayon gid ni Aleysha ang pagkaso sa iya eskwelahan sa bangud sa negligent infliction of emotional distress.
Gin-ako man ni Aleysha nga bisan indi siya makahibalo magbasa kag magsulat, naka-pasar lamang siya kag nakasulod pa sa University of Connecticut bangud sa bulig sang moderno nga mga application.
Gingamit sini ang smartphone apps para nga ma-translate ang mga nakasulat sa speech, kag ang speech naman ginahimo niya nga text paagi sa amo nga application.
Amo man ini ang iya gingamit sa pag-fill out sang college application kag sa essay.
Apang bangud lain na ang setup sa kolehiyo, nabudlayan gid si Aleysha kag nag-untat na sang Pebrero para sa mental health treatment.
Ginsiling sini nga dayunon niya ang kaso sa iya former school bangud gusto niya nga mangin accountable sila sa iya eksperyensya, ilabi na bangud daw kaangay nga ginkawatan siya sang edukasyon bangud wala sang labot ang institusyon sa iya.
Ramen shop owner, nag-anunsyo sang patong sa ulo sang 2 customers nga nagbilin sang one-star review
Kun nagakaon kita sa guwa apang daw indi manami ang pagkaon kag eksperyensya, masami nga nagabawi kita sa reviews.
Apang ini nga reviews amo ang rason kun ngaa tuman ang kaakig sang isa ka ramen shop sa Japan nga nagpamahog pa sa kabuhi sang duha ka customer nga wala nanamian sa ila serbisyo.
Natabo ini matapos nagbilin ang duha ka customer sang isa gid lamang ka star sa rating sa ila nga ramen shop.
Bangud top-rated ramen shop ang TOYOJIRO sa Kyoto, naakig ang tag-iya kag nag-rant sa social media.
Sa sobra sini nga kaugot, gin-post sini pati ang picture sang mga customer.
Ginhangkat pa niya ini nga magbalik, magkaon liwat, kag magsulat man sang maayo nga review kag ibutang ang ila laragway.
Nagsiling ang tag-iya nga indi gid sila pagpasensyahon kun indi nila ini paghimuon.
Nag-post man ini nga magahatag siya sang padya nga 100,000 yen (PhP38,700) sa kay bisan sin-o nga makahatag sang impormasyon kaangot sa duha ka mga customer.
Bangud sa ginhimo sang tag-iya, naglapta ang gintanyag sini nga reward, apang sa baylo nga magpabor sa iya ang sitwasyon, ginsaway siya sang mga tawo kag ginsugo nga mag-sorry.
Sang ulihi, nag-ako ang tag-iya nga daw nasobrahan gid man ang iya ginhimo, gani maga-move on na siya kag maga-reflect sa iya ginhimo.
I’m reflecting on this,” Instagram post sang tag-iya sang ramen shop.
Nag-post man ang restaurant sang separado nga public apology.
Ginpabugal man nila nga naangkon nila ang champion status sa largest ramen site sa Japan nga Ramen Database isa ka bulan pa lang matapos ang ila opening, apang nagsiling nga ginahinulsulan gid nila ang ila aktwasyon.
Lalaki nga mapagabot lang sang ngipon, nasal-an nga may tumor, nawad-an sang sag-ang
Paano kun nagbugtaw ka nga wala ka na sang sag-ang?
Mahilibion ka gid kaangay sang natabo sa isa ka pasyente sa Roma.
Ini nga 35-anyos nga lalaki ang nagkadto sa Umberto I Dental Clinic para nga ipa-extract kuntani ang iya nga wisdom tooth kag cyst.
Matapos ang biopsy sa cyst, ginhambalan ang lalaki nga may “malignant” tumor na na ini gani kinahanglan nga kuhaon ang iya sag-ang paagi sa surgery.
Nagsugot siya sa operasyon para nga makaluwas sa balatian gani nga pagkatapos sang surgery, nakaangkon ini sang permanent facial damage partikular sa tuo nga bahin sang iya baba.
Isa ka bulan ang nagligad, tuman ang iya kakibot sa follow-up tests sa tumor bangud negatibo na ang resulta.
Ginsilingan man ini nga indi na kinahanglan ang chemotherapy.
Nagpangayo ini sang second opinion, kag sang gin-check ang pareho man nga biological material sa lain nga laboratory sa Catholic University of Rome, natukiban nga wala man siya sang tumor.
Ang mas malala, natukiban man niya nga indi na kuntani kinahanglan nga magpaidalom siya sa surgery.
Natukiban sini sa ulihi nga nasimpon gali sang staff sa Umberto I Dental Clinic ang resulta.
Iya ini sang pasyente nga may malignant tumor sa iya nga sag-ang.
Indi mahangpan sang lalaki ang iya batyagon subong bangud buhi siya, healthy, kag wala sang fatal disease, apang daku na ang nangin kulang sa iya nawong.
Nagpasaka man sang kaso ang lalaki batok sa hospital kag nagpanukot sang damages.
Nagapadayon naman ang imbestigasyon sa natabo nga medical mix-up.
‘Married for 84 years’: Lolo kag Lola, may masobra na 100 ka mga apo, going strong gihapon
Kun magpakasal ang duha ka tawo, isa ini ka lifelong commitment, apang sa panahon subong nga wala-tuo nga pagbulaganay, matuod pa bala ini?
Matuod ini para sa mag-asawa sa Brazil nga subong naga-uyat sang record sang pinakamalawig nga pag-asawahay para sa couple nga pareho pa nga buhi tubtub subong.
Ini amo sanday Manoel Angelim Dino, 105, kag Maria de Sousa Dino, 101, nga kasado sa sulod na sang 84 ka tuig kag 77 ka adlaw sang adlaw nga ginhatag sa ila ang titulo halin sa Guinness World Records.
1940 sang ginkasal sanday Manoel kag Maria sa Brazil, apang sang amo nga tion, tuman pa kalayo ang itsura kag mga hitabo sa ila pungsod.
Wala pa gani sila nakaagi daog sa FIFA World Cup sang amo nga tion, kag wala pa sang naimbento nga programmable electronic computer.
Apang halin sadto, nagbunga ang ila paghigugmaanay sang 13 ka kabataan kag masobra 100 na ang apo lakip dira ang 55 grandchildren, 54 great-grandchildren, kag 12 great-great-grandchildren.
Subong nga naga-hinunod ang ila kabuhi, updanay gihapon sila ilabi na sa pagpamati sa rosary prayer sa radio kag paglantaw sang televised mass.
Ano ang ila sikreto sa malipayon nga relasyon?
Mga manugdakop sang lamok, nagdagsa na sa barangay sa Mandaluyong kabaylo sang piso
Nag-umpisa na ang pagdagsa sang mga tawo sa isa ka barangay sa Mandaluyong City kasunod sang mga “wanted” nga nagkaladakpan kag gin-turn over sa mga otoridad.
Ini nga mga wanted “dead or alive” amo ang mga lamok kag pitik-pitik nga ginapangdakop sang mga residente kag ginahatag sa barangay kabaylo sang piso.
Pebrero 21 pa kuntani maga-umpisa ang programa nga ‘May Piso sa Mosquito’ apang indi na makahulat ang mga taga-Barangay Addition Hills kag nag-arangkada na sila sa pagpangita sa mga insekto umpisa Pebrero 19.
Nagabayad ang barangay sang P1 sa kada lima ka lamok ukon kiti-kiti nga ginadala sa ila, buhi man ukon patay.
Ginatipon ini sang barangay sa glass cage sa ila nga barangay hall.
Ginklaro man sang mga opisyal nga indi pwede makaintra ang mga menor de edad sa dakpanay sang lamok.
Kabahin ini sang tikang sang barangay para nga matapna ang dengue cases nga subong naglab-ot na sa 44.
Extra man ini nga encouragement bangud mas nagpisan ang iban sa pagpanglimpyo sa ila mga tarog kag sa ila mga ginasuptan sang tubig.
Subong, sobra na sa 700 ka mga lamok ang natugyan sa barangay.
Magapadayon ini nga programa tubtub nga magnubo ang kaso sang dengue sa ila nga lugar.
Tigulang, ginpili nga iselebrar sa presuhan ang iya ika-104 nga birthday
Ka-bombo kun ikaw ang pamangkuton, gusto mo ayhan magselebrar sang imo kaadlawan sa sulod sang presuhan?
Kalabanan siguro “indi gid eh” ang sabat.
Apang didto bala sa New York, USA, may isa ka tigulang nga ginpili nga iselebrar ang iya ika-104 nga birthday paagi sa pagtuman sang iya madugay na nga plano, ang pagselebrar sa sulod sang presohan.
Ini amo si Loretta nga nagaistar sa isa ka nursing home.
Antes ang iya kaadlawan, nag-request ini sa Livingston County Sheriff’s Office nga luyag niya magbisita sa Livingston County Jail.
Ginkalipay gid sang mga personnel sang jail facility kag mangin sang mga preso ang pagbisita sa ila sang tigulang.
Ginpakigbahin naman sini ang sekrekto sa malawig nga kabuhi amo ang ‘mind your own business!’
Bata, nagtawag sang pulis matapos gintago sang iya amay ang gin-regalo sa iya nga kuwarta
Kun bata pa kita, naga-amat-amat pa lang kita sa pagtuon kun paano magkinot, gani natural nga wala ginatugyan sa aton ang dalagku nga kantidad.
Ang aton nanay kag tatay amo ang nagatago sini tubtub sa tiyempo nga kabalo na kita kun paano mag-manage sang aton galastuhon.
Apang may isa ka bata nga nainit gid sang ginkuha sang iya tatay ang iya kuwarta nga nabaton niya kadungan sang holidays.
Isa abi ka tradisyon sa China kag ginahimo naman diri sa Pilipinas kag sa iban pa nga Asian countries nga sa tion sang Chinese New Year, may ginahatag nga red envelop nga ginatawag man nga money card ukon ampao sa mga kabataan.
May sulod ini nga kuwarta, gani nga sa Chinese family, masami nga ang ginikanan anay ang nagatago sang monetary gifts para sa ila nga bata.
Apang may isa ka bata nga lalaki sa amo nga pungsod nga indi kuntento sa arrangement nga ang iya tatay ang matago sang kuwarta, gani ang iya gin-obra, nagtawag ini sang pulis.
Nabaton sang police station sa Lanzhou, Gansu province ang tawag halin sa bata nga nagapanugid nga may bad guy kuno sa ila nga balay, kag ginkawat sini ang iya kuwarta.
Nabatian pa sang pulis nga may nagsinggit sa bata nga nagasaway sa iya kun ngaa nagtawag ini sa police station, gani nag-responde sila para ma-verify ang reklamo.
Tuman ang kalipay sang bata sang nakit-an sini ang iya mga uncle police nga nag-abot — baliskad sa iya tatay nga tuman ang kahuya sa sitwasyon.
Nag-insister ang bata nga bad person ang iya tatay, apang nagpaathag naman ang amay nga wala lang nakahangop ang iya bata gani nga nagtawag ini sang pulis bangud indi ini magpasugot nga ang amay lang anay ang matago sang kuwarta.
Mismo ang cellphone pa gali sang tatay ang gingamit sang bata sang nagtawag ini sa mga pulis.
Nagbulig naman ang mga pulis sa pag-settle sa problema paagi sa pagpaathag sa bata nga ang tatay gid man ang dapat nga magtago sang kuwarta, kag kun may kinahanglan ini baklon, mahimo lang siya makapangayo.
Ginpanugyan man sa amay nga tudluan ang iya bata sa mga patakaran sa kuwarta, kag klaruhon gid sa iya ang arrangement antes ini kuhaon kag taguon.
Lalaki, nadakpan nga gin-forge ang death certificate sang iya Lolo agud maka-leave sa trabaho
Kun kaisa, sa kadamo sang ulubrahon, gusto man naton makapahuway, maka-liwa-liwa, kag makalagaw kaupod sa aton nga mga abyan.
Ang problema amo kun naga-himu-himo na ikaw sang indi makatarunganon nga mga rason agud nga maka-eskapo sa trabaho.
Kaangay sa natabo sa Singapore kun sa diin isa ka lalaki ang ginmultahan kag napuno pa sang pagpakamalaot matapos napamatud-an nga ginhimu-himo lang sini ang death certificate sang iya nga Lolo agud nga maka- leave with pay sa opisina.
Natabo ini sa 29-anyos nga si Barath Gopal nga isa ka security financing operation analyst.
Isa ka adlaw, nahibal-an sini nga nag-cheat ang iya girlfriend sa iya gani nga indi siya maka-focus sa iya obra.
Sa baylo nga mag-apply para sa iya annual leave, mas gin-gusto sini ang paid compassionate leave sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Ginrason sini nga napatay ang iya Lolo sa India apang nangin mas kumplikado ini sang ginpangayuan siya sang death certificate.
Bangud indi na sini ma-islan ang iya rason, gingamit sini ang death certificate sang himata sang iya abyan, gin-ilog, kag naghimo sang dokumento kun sa diin nakabutang ang pangalan sang iya Lolo.
Indi man galling mahapos intuon ang supervisor bangud nagduda ini sa dokumento.
Nag-send man si Barath sang bilog nga document, apang bangud nakahibalo siya nga madiskubrehan ang iya pagbinutig, nag-resign na lang siya sa trahabo.
Unfortunately para sa iya, ginlagas gid siya sang kumpaniya, ginkasuhan, tubtub nga nag-plead ini nga guilty sa pag-forge sang death certificate nga may intensyon nga maghimo sang fraud.
Kun amo sini ang imo sala sa Singapore, tubtub sa $10,000 ang multa ukon mahimo ka mapreso sang 10 ka tuig ukon pareho gid nga sentensya ang imo makuha.
Maswerte na si Barath nga masobra P230,700 lang ang iya multa apang nagserbe man nga daku nga leksyon nga indi na maghimu-himo sang kaangay nga istorya.
Mga babaye sa isa ka lugar sa China, ginapaagi sa rice dishes ang pagpahibalo kun naluyag sila ukon indi sa lalaki
Valentine’s Day subong gani may kaangtanan man diri ang aton balita espesyal.
Didto bala sa Miao sa South West China, may yara sang isa ka festival nga ginatawag nga Sister’s Meal Festival.
Sa sini nga adlaw, nagaluto ang mga babaye sang nanari-sari nga mga maduagon nga rice dishes nga naputos sa silk kag gina-offer sa mga lalaki nga nagapadulong sa ila balay agud mangaluyag.
Kun ano ang labot sang rice dishes sa mga lalaki nga nagapangaluyag?
Sa rice dishes mahibaluan nila ang ila kapalaran bangud ang rice dishes, may yara sang palaman.
Kun ang rice dish may yara sang nakatago nga chopstick sa sulod, buot silingon, palangga man sang babaye ang lalaki.
Apang kun ang unod sang rice dish ang ahos ukon garlic, buot silingon, wala ka na sang tsansa sa iya gani magpauli ka nalang kag dal-a ang ahos agud may remembrance ka man sa iya.
Heartbroken guest nga nagsinggit kag nagpamuyayaw sa bukid, gintapungol sang campsite staff
Kun amo sini nga mga tion nga malapit na lang i-selebrar ang Valentine’s Day, feel na feel mo gid kun in love ikaw.
Tyempo man ini nga feel na feel mo gid ang heartbreak kun binayaan ikaw ukon nag-break kamo sang imo nga karelasyon.
Amo gid sini ang nabatyagan sang 32-anyos nga si Dawn Cuenzo Salmo rason nga nanghagad siya sang iya mga abyan kag nagkadto sa campsite sa Tanay, Rizal.
Samtang yara didto, ginsulit na lang sini ang iya bayad kag ginpaguwa ang ya kaugot paagi sa pagsinggit sa kabukiran.
Wala siya naghaum nga ang amo nga pagpautwas amo pa gid ang magadul-ong sa iya sang isa pa gid ka sakit.
Nagguwa ang isa ka lalaki nga campsite staffer, ginhambalan sila nga maghimos kag maghalin, kag ginkumpronta man si Salmo kun ngaa nagsinggit ini kag nagpamuyayaw.
Sang nagsabat siya nga ang bukid ang iya ginbuyayaw, hinali siya nga gintapungol sa nawong.
Nagsinggitan ang mga abyan ni Salmo, ginkwestyon ini sa iya pagpanakit, tubtub nga na-umpawan na si Salmo, nagbalos sa pagsumbag sa staffer, kag nagsinggitanay.
Nagapanindugan gid si Salmo nga ang bukid lang ang iya ginbuyayaw.
Nag-explain man ini nga nagbayad man siya para nga makatinir sa campsite pero ginsakit pa siya sang staffer.
Nagrason naman ang staffer sa pulis nga alas sais pa lang sa aga sang amo nga tion kag madamo pa nga campers ang nagakatulog kag nagaka-disturbo sa ginhimo ni Salmo.
Arestado na ang staffer, naka-detain sa Tanay Police Station, kag mangatubang sang reklamo nga slight physical injury.
Nagpangayo naman sang pasaylo ang management sang campsite, kag nagpasalig nga magahimo sila sang tikang agud nga indi na masulit pa ang amo nga insidente.#
Mapa-reelect nga mayor, ginpierde sang asawa sang iya driver
Hambal nila, ang eleksyon daw hampang lang gid nga indi mo mapaktan kun sin-o ang madaug tubtob matapos ang hampang.
Halimbawa diri amo ang natabo sa Russia kun sa diin isa ka alkalde nga nagpadalagan para sa reelection ang napierde sang iya kasumpong nga asawa sang iya personal nga driver.
Ini amo si Yevgeny Pistsov, ang mayor sang Berezovsky, isa ka satellite city sang Yekaterinburg, sa Sverdlovsk region.
Ang reelection kuntani ni Pistsov, nga nagahandom nga magpungko sa ikapaat nga consecutive term bilang mayor, ang isa ka formality na gid lang kuntani bangud nagpadalagan siya batok sa kaangay nga member man sang United Russia political party ni of Vladimir Putin.
Ang iya kasumpong amo si Yulia Maslakova nga wala man naglaum nga magdaug banugd isa lamang siya ka puppet candidate.
Apang sa kakibot sang tanan, siya ang nagdaug.
Sa Berezovsky, ang mayor ang wala gina- elect direkta sang mga tawo kundi sang mga deputies base sa proposal sang isa ka selection committee.
Ang deputies ang masami nga representatives sang mga local kag regional authorities.
Subong nga tuig, ginsiling nga ginhingyo sang deputies ang selection committee nga tugutan nga mas madamo ang kandidato nga pilian apang sang ulihi sanday Mayor Pistsov kag si Yulia Maslakova lamang ang nagpadalagan.
Sa adlaw sang election gikan sa 23 deputies, 17 ang nagboto pabor kay Maslakova kag anom lang kay Pitsov.
Ginpahayag nga gintuyo pa ni Maslakova nga mag-withdraw apang imposible na bangud nagdaug na siya.
May yara siya subong sang duha ka semana nga mag-take sang oath apang wala siya sang plano nga dayunon ini.
Kun indi magpanumpa si Maslakova, kinahanglan nila nga magpatigayon na lang liwat sang eleksyon.
Misis, ginpilit ang bana nga ibaligya ang kidney; kuwarta, gingamit sa pag-elope kaupod sa iya lover
Nagapangatubang sang reklamo kag indi hamak nga pagpakamalaot ang isa ka babaye matapos natukiban nga ginkumbinse sini ang iya bana nga magbaligya sang iya kidney.
Ini nga kaso natabo sa West Bengal nga isa ka state sa India.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ginpilit sang asawa ang bana nga ibaligya ang organ sa black market para nga may kuwarta sila nga mapa-eskwela ang ila bata nga babaye kag ma-arrange ang kasal sini sa may kuwarta nga lalaki.
Bisan nga nagduha-duha pa ang bana sang una, dalayon gid ini nga nakumbinse sang ulihi bangud ginpaminsar man sini nga ang iya pagsakrpisyo ang mahimo mangin solusyon sa ila kapigaduhon kag mahatagan pa sang mayo nga buwasdamlag ang iya bata.
Isa ka tuig ini nga nagpangita sang buyer sa black market bangud iligal ang pagbaligya sang human organs sa India sa sulod na sang masobra tatlo ka dekada.
Nakakita gid man siya sang manugbakal sang ulihi, nagpaidalom sa operasyon, kag nabaton ang kuwarta nga $11,500 ukon masobra P672,000 bilang balor sang iya organ.
Gintugyan ini ang kuwarta sa iya asawa, apang sang ulihi, magluwas nga masakit ang operasyon nga iya gin-agyan, mas nagsakit pa gid ang iya dughan sa natukiban.
Ini bangud sang nabaton sang asawa ang kuwarta, gingamit niya ini agud mag-elope sa iya nga lover.
Natukiban sang bana nga may nakilala gali ang iya asawa nga isa ka lalaki halin sa Barrackpore nga isa man ka syudad sa India.
Nagluyagay sila sa Facebook, kag bangud nagdalom ang ila relasyon, nahuman ang desisyon sang asawa nga bayaan ang iya pamilya, apang antes sina, ginpuga niya anay ang bana nga magbaligya sang kidney agud nga may kuwarta siya nga dal-on sa iya pagseparar sa ila.
Nag-file sang reklamo ang bana sa local police kag sunod nga natultulan ang asawa nga didto sa Barrackpore.
Ginsulong pa sang bana, bata, kag ugangan ang balay nga ginapuy-an sang asawa apang wala na ini nag-atubang sa ila.
Ang lover pa sini ang nagpalab-ot sang desisyon nga maga-file ini sang divorce bangud kuno sa physical and mental abuse nga ginahimo sang iya mga ugangan sa sulod sang 16 ka tuig nga kasado siya sa iya bana.
Ginapadayon sang West Bengal Police ang imbestigasyon sa amo nga kaso kag ginabasehan man ang complaint kag video footage sang interaksyon sa tunga sang alleged lover kag pamilya sang bana.
Mga tawo, maga-compete vs humanoid robots sa half-marathon sa China
Masarangan ayhan sang tawo nga lutuson ang robot?
Ukon masarangan ayhan sang robot nga himuon ang mga masarangan sang tawo?
Sa China, may ara sang isa ka interesante nga kumpetisyon nga ginabantayan sa capital city sa Beijing kun sa diin magatipon ang linibo ka mga tawo nga runners nga magapa-indis-indis batok sa bipedal robots.
Indi lang ini basta-basta nga mga robot bangud produkto sila sang nagapanguna nga robotics companies sa kalibutan kaangay sang Tesla, Boston Dynamics kag 1X.
Matabo ang kumpetisyon sa Abril kun sa diin ang host amo ang Beijing Economic-Technological Development Area (E-Town).
12,000 ka mga tawo ang ginalauman nga magapasakop kag dinosena nga bipedal robots sa amo nga half-marathon.
Para nga makapasakop ang robot, dapat nga may yara ini sang human-inspired appearance kag dapat nga ang kataason sini ang limitado lamang sa 0.5 tubtub sa 2 metros.
Ang winner sa kumpetisyon — tawo man ukon robot — ang makabaton sang padya nga kuwarta depende sa ila nga performance.
May mga eksperto nga nagasiling nga ang seasoned human runners ang may yara sang edge batok sa bipedal robots.
Ginapahayag nga ang range sang robot ang yara lamang sa 8 to 12 km/h, magluwas pa nga isa pa ka factor ang battery autonomy.
Antes sini, nag-anunsyo naman ang organizers nga tugutan nila ang pag-ilis sang baterya samtang padayon ang karera.
May yara man anay sang robot sa South Korea nga nag-compete sa official running event sang 2024, apang indi ini maka-intra sa half-marathon sa China sa Abril bangud bukas lamang ang kumpetisyon sa Beijing para sa bipedal robots.
Ido nga pulis sa China, natulugan sa trabaho, wala sang batunon nga bonus sa Chinese New Year
May yara sang isa ka pulis sa China nga tuman ang nakuha nga suporta gikan sa mga tawo.
Apang, ang ini nga pulis, indi tawo kundi isa ka ido.
Ini amo si Fuzai, isa ka Corgi, nga nag-upod sa police dog training nga nakabase sa Weifang, Shandong province, sa northern China.
Matapos ang pila ka bulan, nangin internet sensation ini sa Chinese social media kag madamo na ang naga-follow kag nagasuporta sa iya.
Sang nagligad lang nga adlaw, gin-istoryahan gid sang publiko ini nga ido matapos gin-anunsyo sang ila nga hepe nga indi siya paghatagan sang year-end bonus subong nga Chinese new year.
Ang rason amo nga natulugan ini sa iya trabaho kag nangihi pa sa salog….
Matapos nahibaluan sang mga tawo, madamo ang nagpabutyag sang suporta sa iya kag naglunsar pa sang online campaign.
Ang resulta, gin-anunsyo sang ila hepe nga apisar indi ini paghatagan sang bonus, hatagan sa gihapon ini sang madamo nga new year gift package.
Human fetus, nakuha sa utok sang 1-year-old girl sa China
Isa ka tumalagsahon nga kaso ang ginreport sa China, kon sa diin nakuha sang mga doktor ang isa ka malformed twin sa utok sang isa ka tuig nga bata nga babayi.
Ini kasunod nga ang lamharon nagpakita sang mga senyales sang pagdako sang iya ulo nga nagtulod man nga maghibaluan ang amo nga kaso.
Ang nakuha nga partially formed twin, ang may mga tul-an pareho sang spine, mga butkon, kag mga tudlo.
Nahibaluan nga ang talagsahon nga hitabo, nga kilala sa tawag nga fetus-in-fetus, nagakatabo sa 1 sa 500,000 ka pagkabun-ag, kon sa diin ang isa ka kapid nagadako sa sulod sang iya kapid.
Ang fetus-in-fetus masami nga ginasal-an nga sa isa ka sahi sang tumor, apang mahimo ini makilala paagi sa presensya sang aktwal nga mga bahin sang lawas.
Samtang ang kalabanan nga mga kaso nagalakip sang pagtubo sang mass sa tiyan, kag talagsa lang ini makita sa utok.
Wala pa sa 200 ka mga kaso ang nadokumento sa bug-os nga kalibutan, kag nagadugang ini sa magamay nga kaso, kon sa diin ang kapid ang nagadako sa isa ka tumalagsahon nga lokasyon sang lawas.
Ang ini nga tumalagsahon nga kaso ang nabalhag sang mga doktor sa Shanghai, China sang Marso, 2023.
Pal-ew, Tanjay City, Negros Oriental bangud sa tumalagsahon nga itsura sini.
Suno sa uploader sang video nga si AJ Bantaya Cardinas, makit-an nga kaangay sang iya sang tawo ang nawong sang idik.
Ginpahayag ni Cardinas nga indi ini ang una nga tion nga nagbun-ag ang ila nga ginasagod nga nayon.
Sa pagkamatuod suno sa iya, nagbun-ag man ang nayon sadto sang idik ng may yara sang parte nga kaangay sang pakpak.
Sa malain nga palad, napatay ini nga pinasahi nga idik.
Sunfish sa aquarium, nangluya, wala nagkaon matapos gulpi nag-untat sa pagbisita ang mga tawo
May yara man bala ikaw sang hinuptanan nga isda sa imo nga balay?
Nakahibalo ka bala nga kaangay sa tawo, nagakasubuan man ang isda kun wala sang nagasapak sa iya kag makabatyag man sang pagpalangluya?
Amo ini ang natabo sa isa ka sunfish nga nabutang sa isa ka aquarium sa southwestern Japan.
Nag-abot ang isda sa Shimonoseki City Aquarium Kaikyokan sa Yamaguchi, Japan sang Pebrero 2024 halin sa southern coast sang Kochi sa Pacific Ocean.
Sang yara na siya didto sa aquarium, nangin isa siya sa pinakabantog nga attractions sa pasilidad bangud miyembro siya sang blowfish family nga kilala sa unique shape ang iya daku nga mga mata.
Apang sang Disyembre 1, nagdesisyon ang aquarium nga masirado anay sila para sa anum ka bulan nga renovation rason nga wala anay sang ginpasulod nga mga bisita kag turista.
Didto man kag nag-umpisa nga nagluya ang isda rason nga nagsuspetsa ang aquarium keepers nga basi kun may yara ini sang digestive problems.
Gingamay man ang ginhatag nga pagkaon kag ginbisitahan man nila ang fish tank para mahatagan ini sang comfort sa tion nga maggahod na ang construction — apang amo man gihapon ang sitwasyon sang isda.
Padayon ini nga nadulaan sang gana kag nagpahimuyong lang sa isa ka bahin sang fish tank kag tuman ka subo kun tulukon.
Sang ulihi, ginkonsiderar na sang facility ang suhestiyon sa isa ka staff meeting nga basi kun naapektuhan gid ang isda bangud gulpi lang nagkaladula ang mga tawo sa iya palibot.
Apisar may pagpang-duha-duha, nagdesisyon ang aquarium keepers nga tilawan abi nila nga ipakabit ang ila nga mga uniform sa palibot sang fish tank.
Nagbutang man sila sang cutouts nga daw tawo amo man ang mga laragway sang nagayuhom nga mga tawo para ma-cheer kuno ang isda.
Suno sa aquarist nga si Moe Miyazawa, nakahibalo man siya nga nagalantaw ang isda sang ginpakabit nila ang cutouts apang amo na lang ang ila kakibot nga pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagkaon na ang isda.
Ini ang labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang isa ka semana nga may gana ini sa pagkan kag nangin steady man ang pag-recover sini.
Bangud sadto, nag-umpisa man ang staff sa masami nga pagbisita sa isda kag naga-wave pa sila sa sunfish.
Nagalaum ang aquarium keepers nga magabalik man ang fans agud mabisita liwat ang sunfish kun magbukas na liwat ang aquarium sa summer pagkatapos sang ila nga renovation.
Mga Lola kag Lola sa Britanya nga naga-edad 87-99 anyos, ginakabig nga world’s oldest choir
Kun ikaw ang ginbugayan sang talento sa pagkanta, pat-od nga nalipay ka gid nga i-share ini iban.
Amo ina abi ang maayo nga himuon kun ikaw may yara sang special talent halin sa Diyos — ang ipakigbahin ini sa iban nga mga tawo para nga sila ang ma-inspire, ma-happy, kag ma-share man nila ang ila gift kaangay abi sang pagsaot, pagpinta, pagsulat, kag madamo nga iban pa.
Sa Britanya, may yara sang 17 ka mga tawo nga nagabug-os sang isa ka choir nga amo ang ginhingadlan sang Guinness World Records bilang world’s oldest choir.
Ang mga miyembro sini ang nagaedad sang 87 tubtub sa 99 years old, buot silingon, ang average age amo ang 94.
Sang tinalikdan nga bulan, may yara sila sang Christmas concert kun sa diin nalakip sa nagtambong amo ang Guinness World Records adjudicator.
Ini amo ang nagkumpirma nga ang amo nga performance sang grupo ang nagguba sang record sang performance sang nauna nga oldest choir.
Ini nga singers ang lunsay halin sa mga care homes didto sa Stratford-upon-Avon sa England.
Sang tion nga nag-perform sila sang Disyembre, kaupod nila ang English musician nga si Tony Christie nga nag-perform sang bantog nga “Amarillo” kag “Silent Night.”
Gamhanan nga hita sang babaye, makabuka sang sandiya
Ka-Bombo ano ang masarangan nga himuon sang imo hita?
Samtang nagapaminsar ka pa, istoryahan ko na lang ikaw sang isa ka babaye nga nakahimo sang world record bangud sa iya hita.
Didto ini sa Turkey kun sa diin ginbuka sang isa ka babaye ang dalagko nga mga sandiya gamit ang iya mga hita.
Ini amo si Gozde Dogan nga naghimo sang world record attempt paagi sa pagbutang sang sandiya sa tunga sang iya duha ka hita kag ginbuka ini.
Sa sulod sang isa ka minuto, lima ka sandiya ang iya nabuka nga naghimo sa iya bilang record- holder sang pinakamadamo nga sandiya nga nabuka gamit ang hita sang isa ka babaye.
Layaw nga ido, nagmato-mato kadto sa vet clinic agud mabulong ang iya tagumatayon nga bata
Ang pagpalangga sang isa ka iloy amo ang isa ka sahi sang pagpalangga nga indi gid naton pag-ibaylo sa iban.
Amo ina ang kinaandan para sa aton nga mga tawo, apang may isa ka istorya sa Turkey nga nagapamatuod nga amo man ina nga klase sang pagpalangga ang sarang mahatag sang sapat.
Sa isa ka veterinary clinic, nakuhaan gid sang CCTV camera ang isa ka heartwarming story sang isa ka layaw nga ido.
Natabo ini sa Adnan Kahveci neighborhood sang Beylikduzu sa probinsya sang Istanbul.
Suno sa clinic, sang nagligad lamang nga adlaw, may yara sang animal lover nga nagdangop sa ila agud dal-on ang isa ka tutoy nga nakit-an sini sa dalan.
Suno sa nagdala, amo lang ini isa ang buhi pa kag gusto niya nga mabuligan ini sang veterinarian.
Amo na lang ang kakibot sang mga tawo didto bangud dugay-dugay, ara na ang iloy sang tutoy, kag wala ini naga-isahanon.
Dala sini paagi sa iya baba ang isa ka tutoy nga halos wala na nagahulag.
Suno sa technician, na-notice nila kun daw ano ka desperada ang ido nga madala ang iya bata sa clinic.
Natukiban sang vet nga naga-suprer na gali ang puppy sang hypothermia kag tuman na gid ka nubo ang heart rate.
Base pa sa surveillance footage, makit-an gid kun ano ka worried ang iloy nga ido bangud naga-sunod-sunod ini sa staff sa clinic kag ginalantaw gid sila samtang ginatatap nila ang tutoy.
Sa maayo nga palad, naluwas sang team ang little puppy kag ang bilog nga pamilya sang ido ang naga-recover na subong sa amo nga clinic.
Indi bastante ang gatas sang iloy para sa iya mga tutoy gani nga naggamit ang clinic sang formula para nga maluwas ang iya duha ka babies.
Nagdesisyon man ang clinic nga indi anay sila magbaton sang bisita para nga makapahuway sang maayo ang mother dog kag iya kabataan.
Ginpahayag sang doctor nga madamo gid ang na-intriga sa istorya sang ido kag nakita gid nila kun ano ini kaalam kag caring nga klase sang sapat.
Pasyente, nasal-an sang ospital, patay matapos ginkakasan sang life support
Wala sang tupong ang kasubo sang pamilya kun mapatay ang ila himata — ilabi na kun ini biktima lang sang sirkumstansya kaangay sang plug nga nasal-an lang kag ginbutong sang ospital.
Sa Vancouver, Washington, USA, isa ka ospital ang ginkasuhan sang negligence kag pagtuga sang severe emotional distress bangud sa pagkakas sa plug sa sala nga pasyente nga nagakinahanglan sang life support.
Nag-ugat ini nga kaso sang ginpamangkot sang PeaceHealth Southwest Medical Center ang pamilya sang ‘brain dead’ patient nga si Michael Beehler kun padayunon pa nila ang life support.
Bisan mabudlay ang amo nga desisyon, nagsabat ang utod ni Michael nga si Debbie Danielson nga mapasugot sila nga butungon na lamang ang plug.
Ginhaya ang bangkay ni Michael, ginbutang pa ang iya pangalan sa obituary section sa newspaper, kag madamo ang nagpakig-unong sa pamilya.
Napuno sang kasubo ang mga himata kag abyan, apang nabayluhan ini sang tuman nga kakibot bangud pagkasunod nga adlaw, nakabaton sang tawag ang utod nga si Debbie halin mismo kay Michael.
Indi makapati si Debbie nga buhi ang iya utod bangud ginhaya pa gani nila ini, gani nga nag-report sila gilayon sa otoridad.
Gin-retrieve sang Clark County Medical Examiner ang bangkay, kag sang gin-usisa paagi sa fingerprint examination, didto nakumpirma nga indi ini si Michael kundi isa ka lalaki nga nagahingalan kay David Wells.
Natukiban nga si Wells, 69, ang bag-o lang gid nag-abot sa ospital sang amo nga tion bangud nadunlan ini sang ginkaon nga steak kag nangin unconscious kag nag-untat man sa pagginhawa.
Bangud roommate sila ni Michael, nasal-an nga siya ang ‘brain dead’ patient kag siya ang ginkakasan sang life support bisan nga wala man sang pahanugot halin sa iya nga pamilya.
Suno sa bata ni Wells nga si Shawn, napahibalo man siya sang ospital nga may medical emergency nga ginkamatay sang iya amay, apang wala gid siya sang hinalung-ong nga may natabo gali nga sala sa pag-identify sa pasyente.
Nabalahuba lamang ang kamatuoran sang nabalita ini kag ginpangayuan siya sang komento sang telebisyon duha ka tuig ang nagligad.
Nakit-an sang Washington Department of Health nga sampaw-sampaw ang violations sang hospital lakip na ang kapalpakan sa proseso sa pag-identify sa pasyente kag pag-train sa ila nga staff para sa identification.
Magluwas sa ospital, ginkasuhan man ang American Medical Response Ambulance kag ang All County Cremation and Burial bangud sa negligence kag severe emotional distress nga natuga sa pamilya sang napatay.
81-anyos nga Lolo, apat ka adlaw nga nagsuprer matapos aksidente nga natulon ang pustiso
Tuman gid ang aton paghalong sa aton nga ngipon, kag amo man ina nga paghalong ang kinahanglan kun ikaw naka-pustiso.
Pat-od nga indi mo gid gusto nga maabtan mo ang natabo sa isa ka Lolo sa Peru.
Ini isa ka 81-anyos nga tigulang nga nakabatyag sang kabudlay sa pagtulon kag masakit man pati ang iya pagginhawa sa sulod na sang apat ka adlaw.
Bangud indi na ini makaagwanta, nagpalapit ini sa ospital, kag sang nagpaidalom sa X-ray, tuman ang iya kakibot sang nahibal-an nga nagbara gali ang pustiso sa iya nga tutunlan.
Nahibaluan nga may epilepsy man si Lolo.
Gin-istorya sini nga sang gin-atake siya sang kumbulsyon, ginpinsar niya nga nabuga niya ang iya pustiso kag na-missing, apang wala gid siya nagpinsar nga natulon niya gali ini.
Madasig naman ang medical team sa Sabogal hospital sa Lima sa pagpatigayon sang operasyon.
Nakuha gikan sa iya tutunlan ang pustiso, kag tuman ang kalipay sang Lolo bangud mahapos na liwat kag indi na masakit ang iya pagginhawa.
Naka-guwa naman si Lolo sa ospital matapos ang madinalag-on nga procedure.
Madre nga nagbiya sa kombento, nangin porn star
May yara sang isa ka madre nga nagtinir sang walo ka tuig sa kombento apang naghimo sang pinakamakakilibot nga desisyon.
Suno kay Pineda, sang bata pa siya, handom niya nga mangin isa gid man ka madre.
Sang 10 ka tuig ini, nagsulod siya sa kombento agud mangin madre.
Tubtob nga isa ka adlaw, nahulog ang buot sini sa isa ka religious teacher gani nagbiya siya sa iya bokasyon.
Nagtrabaho siya sa isa ka kompaniya kun sa diin may nakilala ini nga lalaki nga naga-recruit sang mga model para sa iya adult webcam portal.
Nag-apply man si Pineda kag nag-qualify.
Didto na nagsugod ang iya trabaho sa porn industry.
Gin-ako niya nga sa una, nahuya pa ini apang naanad na man lang siya sang ulihi.
Sa pihak sang iya trabaho bilang porn star, wala ini nagakalipat nga masimba kada semana kag magpangamuyo.
Babaye, na-in love sa peke nga ‘Brad Pitt’, na-scam sang malapit P50-M
Kun indi mo halos ma-imagine ang moment nga makit-an mo sa personal ang dekalibre nga Hollywood megastar nga si Brad Pitt, ano pa gid ayhan kun maka-relasyon mo ang aktor?
Siguro feeling mo, daw si Angelina Jolie man ikaw ka-guwapa!
Apang may yara sang isa ka babaye nga naka-relasyon ini nga actor — ukon at least, sa iya nga pagpati, nagpalanggaanay sila nga duha sa sulod sang malawig nga tion.
Eksperyensya ini ni ‘Anne’, isa ka 53-anyos nga French interior decorator.
Isa ka bes, samtang yara sa Instagram, nag-post ang babaye sang iya nga mga laragway matapos nag-ski.
Gilayon nga may nag-chat sa iya nga isa man ka babaye nga nagpakilala nga siya si Jane Pitt nga amo ang iloy ni Brad Pitt.
Samtang nagalawig ang ila istoryahanay, gina-sige insister ni Jane Pitt nga bagay gid si Anne sa iya nga anak.
Wala magdugay, may lalaki na nga nag-chat kay Anne sa Instagram kag amo na ang nagpakilala nga siya si Brad Pitt, adlaw-adlaw sila nga nagbayluhanay sang mensahe, tubtub nga… to make the long story short, na-in love si Anne kay Brad Pitt bangud ka-thoughtful kuno sa iya kag interesado gid ini sa iya kabuhi.
Suno kay Anne, wala gid nagakalipat si Brad Pitt nga pamangkuton siya sa iya passion, iya trabaho, kag iya pamilya.
Ginapadal-an man siya sang poems, mga kanta, kag mga selfies nga indi man makita ni Anne sa iban nga social media pages.
Masobra isa ka tuig man nga ginpinsar ni Anne nga ka-long distance relationship sini ang actor.
Sa amo sina kalawig nga relasyon, nakapanugid man si Anne kaangot sa iya divorce sa iya anay manggaranon nga bana.
May ginbilin ini sa iya nga daku nga kantidad sang kuwarta kag amo ini ang iya ginagamit magluwas pa sa iya trabaho bilang interior decorator.
Sang ulihi, nagpanugid man si Brad Pitt nga may gina-suprer siya nga seryoso nga balatian sa kidney kag naka-admit siya sa ospital, apang indi sini masarangan bayad ang bill bangud sa iya nga pagproseso sang divorce kay Angelina Jolie.
Bangud in love man sila sa isa kag isa, wala gid nagduha-duha si Anne kag nagpadala ini sang kuwarta.
Naglab-ot ini sa $850,000 ukon masobra P49.70-million lakip na dira ang iya nabaton halin sa divorce settlement.
Nareyalisar lamang ni Anne nga biktima gali siya sang scam sang nakit-an sini sa balita nga karelasyon gali ni Brad Pitt ang Swiss jewelry professional nga si Ines de Ramon.
Daw kagton sini ang iya siko sa paghinulsol, apang tuman na gid ka ulihi ang tanan, nadulaan na siya sang lovelife, namigado pa siya bangud sa amo nga scam.
Ulihi man sini nareyalisar nga produkto sang AI ukon Artificial Intelligence ang tanan nga pictures nga ginsend sa iya rason nga indi sini makit-an sa iban nga social media page.
Naka-file na si Anne sang reklamo sa pulis kaangot sa scam apang indi klaro kun ano na ang progress ukon may paglaum pa nga masolbar ang iya nga kaso.
Babaye, world record holder sa paglakat sa kalayuon nga 370 feet sa idalom sang tubig
Isa sa pinakamabudlay nga matun-an amo ang paglangoy.
Pero mas mabudlay pa gid siguro tun-an ang paglakat…sa idalom sang tubig.
Apang may isa ka babaye sa Australia nga naglakat sa idalom sang tubig sa kalayuon nga 370 ka tapak.
Ini amo si Amber Bourke, 35, nga naga-freedive sa sulod sang kapin 10 ka tuig.
Ang ginhimo niya, naghaklo siya anay sang madamo nga oxygen, nagsalom sa pool kag naglakat sa salog.
Ang una nga record nga siya man ang naghimo amo ang 357 feet, 7 inches.
Sang damlag lang, na-break niya ini paagi sa paglakat sa distansya nga 370 feet, 2 inches.
Nahibaluan nga si Bourke ang nagauyat na sang 17 ka Australian freediving records kag isa ka International Association for the Development of Apnea world record para sa swimming sa idalom sang dagat.
Lalaki, nag-set sang world record matapos ginpauntat-tiyog ang 57 electric fans gamit ang iya dila
May isa ka tawo sa state sang Telangana sa India nga nakapukaw sang interes sang publiko bangud sa pinasahi sini nga ginhimo nga ginkilala sang Guinness World Record.
Ini amo si Kranthi Kumar Panikera nga napa-untat ang pagtiyog sang 57 ka electric fans sa sulod sang isa ka minuto gamit lamang ang iya nga dila!
Halos indi makapati ang tanan kun paano ini ginhimo ni Kranthi, apang matuod ini nga natabo bangud may video mismo ang Guinness nga naga-dokumento sang iya kadasigon kag daw kaangay nga wala ini sang sakit nga nabatyagan.
Antes ini nga record, kilala naman si Kranthi bilang si “Drill Man” bangud daring gid man ang iya stunts nga ginapakita sa publiko.
Mas nasemento pa gid ang iya reputasyon sa indi mapatihan nga performances bangud nakuha sini ang world record nga pinakadamo nga electric fan blades nga napauntat gamit ang dila sa sulod sang isa ka minuto.
May mga na-impress kay may ara man nga nakibot kag gintawag ini nga iron tongue.
Interesado naman ang iban sa training ni Kranthi kag may mga curious naman kun paano sini ayhan bulngon ang iya dila.
May mga naga-kwestyon naman sini nga abilidad kag ginpamangkot ang Guinness kun ngaa ginakilala nila ang kaangay sini nga mga buluhaton.
Sa bahin ni Kranthi, ginsiling sini nga tuman ang iya kalipay sa iya record bangud nagdaku siya sa isa ka nabaw-ing nga lugar sa India kun sa diin feeling niya sang una, tuman gid ka daku kag kalayo ang paghandom para sa ila tanan.
Sa subong, uyat na sini ang world record nga siya pa lamang ang nakahimo.#
Lalaki sa Japan, nangin palangabuhian ang pagdayaw sa mga tawo nga nagalabay
Ano ang imo batyagon kun nagalakat ikaw sa dalan tapos may tawo nga gulpi lang nagabugno sa imo kag nagadayaw sa imo itsura, sa imo buhok, ukon sa imo panapton?
Mahimo nga maham-ot ang iban, may ara man nga mahuya, may ara man nga mangakig ukon mainsulto — depende kun kilala nila ang tawo nga nagabugno kag kun paano sini ihambal ang iya dayaw.
Apang may isa ka tawo sa Japan nga halos wala na nahadlok kun paano mag-react ang tawo nga iya dayawon, bangud sa pagkamatuod, ginhimo na niya ini nga propesyon.
Gintawag na gani siya nga si Uncle Praise bangud bantog siya nga nagadayaw sa kada tawo nga nagalabay.
Ini nga 43-anyos nga lalaki ang naga-ubra anay sa isa ka kumpaniya sa Tochigi sa Japan, apang na-adik siya sa pagsugal rason nga nadulaan sang trabaho kag sang ulihi, ginbayaan pa siya sang iya pamilya.
Nagbalatian pa ang iya amay gani nga wala na siya sang palangitan-an kag napilitan nga sa higad-dalan na lang mag-istar.
Daw namarasmasan siya bangud sa iya naabtan, kag bangud kinahanglan niya maka-survive, ginpinsar sini nga mangin street performer ugaling kay wala man siya sang talent kaangay sang pagkanta kag pagsaot ukon bisan magic tricks.
Sang ulihi, nadumduman niya nga dayawon ang iban nga mga tawo, apang may mga nagapangakig… gani nagdala na lang siya sang cardboard kag nga may nakasulat sang iya pagdayaw sa iban.
Nakatuon man si Uncle Praise nga indi ini pagpasobrahan — halimbawa, kun una nga bes niya nakit-an ang tawo, itsura anay ang iya dayawon, kag kun nasadyahan man ang tawo, makig-istorya na siya kag hibaluon ang iban nga bagay nga sarang niya mahatagan sang compliment.
Tatlo ka tuig na niya ini nga ginahimo kag may pila man nga nanamian gid bangud wala gid sang naga-apresyar sa ila.
Sa pagkamatuod, may mga regular clients pa si Uncle Praise nga nagatawag sa iya kun kinahanglan nila ang morale boost.
Nakalibot naman siya sa 31 sa 47 prefectures sang Japan para sa sini nga unique nga trabaho kag nakadayaw sang masobra 30 ka tawo kada adlaw kag may income nga 10,000 yen.
Madre sa Brazil, bag-o nga nagauyat sang record bilang pinakatigulang nga tawo sa kalibutan
Kilalahon naton subong ang bag-o nga naga-uyat sang record bilang pinakatigulang nga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ini matapos napatay na ang nauna nga nagapanag-iya sang record nga amo ang 116-anyos nga si Tomiko Itooka sang Japan.
Ang bag-o nga record-holder amo si Inah Canabarro Lucas sang Brazil nga naga-edad sang 116 years kag 210 days sang ginkilala ini sang Guinness World Records.
Si Sister Inah man ang pinakatigulang nga madre sa kalibutan nga nabun-ag sang June 8, 1908 sa Sao Francisco de Assis sa Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.
Nabun-ag siya bilang tuman ka niwang nga bata kag gindumdom sang iban nga indi na siya maka-survive kun maka-edad-edad na.
Apang malawig pa ang iya nangin kabuhi kag nangin kabahin dira ang iya pagka-madre.
Nagsaylo siya anay sa Montevideo, Uruguay sang nagpanumpa na nga mangin madre sang December 1928.
Sang 1930, nagbalik siya sa Brazil kag nangin manunudlo sang Portuguese kag mathematics sa eskwelahan sa Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro.
Naglawig sang dinekada ang iya teaching career nga amo man ang nagdala sa iya sa lain-lain nga mga lokasyon.
Sa iya ika-110 nga kaadlawan sang 2018, nakabaton siya sang apostolic blessing halin kay Pope Francis.
Si Sister Inah amo ang ginasiling nga last living person nga nabun-ag sang 1908 kag isa sa tatlo na lamang ka mga tawo nga nabun-ag sang 1900s nga subong nagakabuhi pa.
Ido, isahanon nga nabilin sa balay matapos napatay ang 9 family members sa Jeju Air plane crash
Gin-rescue sang animal rights group sa South Korea ang isa ka ido matapos napatay sa Jeju plane crash ang pamilya nga nagatatap sa iya.
Gin-identify ang ido nga si Pudding nga isahanon nga nabilin sa balay sa Yeonggwang County sa South Jeolla province.
Sang nagtibusok sang eroplano sang Domingo, Disyembre 29, lakip sa mga biktima amo ang 79-anyos nga tag-iya sang ido.
Patay man sa amo nga trahedya ang iya asawa, duha ka kabataan nga babaye, isa ka umagad, kag apat ka mga apo.
Suno sa grupo nga Coexistence of Animal Rights on Earth (Care), nagbyahe ang pamilya sa Thailand apang bangud sa amo nga insidente, wala na sila nakabalik.
Nakit-an naman si Pudding nga nagalibot-libot sa balay sang iya pamilya.
Masami man nga ini nga nagabantay sa nagalabay nga mga salakyan.
May mga maalwan man nga mga kasilingan nga nagpakaon sa iya tubtub nga gindala ini sang animal rights group kag ginpa-check sa veterinary hospital sa Seoul.
Gin-anunsyo man sang organisasyon nga tatapon anay nila si Pudding tubtub nga may mag-abot nga panibag-o nga guardian nga maka-kuha kag makasagod sa iya.
Cellphone, aksidente nga nahulog sa donation box; templo, nanindugan nga indi na pag-ibalik sa tag-iya
Kun nagahatag gani sang donasyon, dapat nga santo ini sa aton nga kabubut-on, dapat nga wala ginapilit, kag dapat nga indi pakita-kita lamang.
Apang kun halimbawa, aksidente mo lang ini nga nahatag, may kinamatarong ayhan ikaw nga bawion?
Amo ini subong ang gina-debatehan sa India matapos aksidente nga nahulog sang isa ka lalaki ang iya malahalon nga cellphone sa sulod sang collection box sa templo.
Nagbisita ini nga lalaki sa Arulmigu Kandaswamy Temple sa Thiruporur kaupod ang iya pamilya agud nga magpangamuyo.
Naglusot sa iya bulsa ang cellphone kag nagtupa sa “hundial” nga amo ang metal donation box samtang nagahatag siya sang donasyon sa patron deity sang templo.
Sunod nga nagkadto ang lalaki sa mga opisyal sang templo kag naghingyo kun pwede nga mabalik sa iya ang cellphone bangud indi man ini donasyon.
Sa iya kakibot, nagpamalibad ang mga opisyal bangud may pagsulundan sila nga kun ano man ang mabutang sa donation box, iya na ini sang deity kag indi na pag-ibalik.
Suno pa sa Minister of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, ang anuman nga halad sa deity — bisan nga boluntaryo man ukon aksidente — ang makabig na nga propiedad sang Diyos.
Nag-insister pa ang lalaki paagi sa pag-file sang complaint, apang sang ginbuksan ang donation box subong nga bulan, nangluya gid ang lalaki bangud wala gid nagpalingkang ang temple officials kag ginpanindugan gid ang ila desisyon.
Ang ila lang gintugutan amo nga makuha sang lalaki ang data halin sa iya cellphone.#
Mag-asawa nga nag-divorce 50-anyos na ang nagligad, nagpakasal liwat subong nga tuig
Nagapati ka man bala sa halambalanon nga “Love is lovelier the second time around”?
Napamatud-an ini sang anay mag-asawa sa Pennsylvania, USA nga nag-diborsyo halos lima ka dekada na ang nagligad, apang nagpakasal liwat subong nga 2024.
Teenager pa lamang si Fay sang nakilala sini si Robert bangud nga ka-barkada ini sang iya magulang.
Sang una pa lang, ginsiling na ni Robert nga pangasawahon sini si Fay kag natabo ini bangud sang November 10, 1951, nagpakasal sila kag nag-angkon sang mga bunga ang ila paghigugmaanay.
Ugaling, kaangay sa iban nga love stories, may mga pagpanghangkat man sa ila nga relasyon kag nagdesisyon sila nga magbulagay matapos ang 24 ka tuig nga pag-updanay bilang mag-asawa.
Bisan may kabataan sila, nag-divorce sila sang 1975.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpangasawa sila kag nagpamana sang lain… apang napatay ang second husband ni Fay sang 2022.
42 ka tuig man ang ila gin-updanay antes ini nabalo.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpakasal man anay si Robert kay Carol Shultz, apang nabalo man siya bangud napatay ang babaye 24 anyos na ang nagligad.
Samtang nagatigulang, naga-tabuay man gihapon ang banas nanday Robert kay Fay bangud pareho sila nga nagatambong sa family events.
Bangud maayo man ang ila nga relasyon, daw kaangay sila sang teenagers nga na-in love liwat sa isa kag isa.
Bangud first love man ni Robert si Fay, wala na ini nag-uyang sang tiyempo kag ginpakaslan ini liwat sang nagligad lamang nga Disyembre 8.
Ginpahayag sang mag-asawa nga indi nila batasan nga balikan pa ang rason sang ila pagbulagay sang una bangud ang ila mindset subong amo nga i-enjoy kun ano ang yara sa ila pamilya.
Gina-enjoy nila ang pagkadto sa simbahan, pagtambong sa birthday parties sang ila mga apo, pagkadto sa casino, kag paghampang sang baraha sa ila nga balay.
Suno sa newlyweds, sang una anay, tuman sa ila nga sako sa pagpadako sang ila apat ka kabataan gani nga wala gid sila sang bebetime ukon husband-wife date nights.
Bisan gani lantaw sang sine, indi nila mahimo sang una.
Pero subong, mas may time na sila nga mag-enjoy ilabi na bangud suportado sila sang ila kabataan kag ginapanginbulahan sila sang halos tanan nga nakakilala sa ila sa ila nga komunidad.
Lalaki, anom ka tuig nga wala nakapangita sang ubra bangud sa iya tattoo sa nawong
May yara sang isa ka 24-anyos nga lalaki sa China nga grabe subong ang problema sa pagpangita sang ubra apisar nga may kaalam kag abilidad ini.
Ang iya problema amo nga may tattoo ini nga korte sang bagul sa iya nawong.
Gin-ako niya nga nangin rebellious siya nga pamatan-on nga nag- struggle sa depression kag nangin palaagyan niya nga makapautwas amo ang pagpabutang sang tattoo.
Una siya nagpabutang sang tattoo sa iya lawas apang sang 2018, naghimo siya sang radical decision nga magpabutang sang skull tattoo sa iya itsura.
Sa una, nalipay siya apang sang ulihi, narealisar niya nga kabudlay para sa iya nga mangabuhi sang normal.
Suno sa iya, sa nagligad nga anom ka tuig, tuman ka budlay para sa iya nga magpangita sang trabaho.
Tubtob nga sang Oktubre, nag-contact siya sa isa ka tattoo removal studio kag amat-amat nga ginpanas ang iya tattoo sa kamot.
Ang laser procedure masakit apang maantos man niya apang sang damlag lang, ginsuguran niya ang pagpapanas sang tattoo sa iya nawong.
Matapos ang iya first session, tuman ini ka sakit nga nagresulta sa pag-angkon niya sang heart problems gani makapahuway anay siya antes padayunon ang apat tubtob lima ka sessions, agud dalayon na nga mapanas ang iya tattoo kag magkabuhi sang normal.
Pag-inom sang whiskey, sekreto sa malawig nga kabuhi sang 106-anyos nga lola
Sang damlag lang, isa ka lola ang nagselebrar sang iya ika-106 nga kaadlawan sa isa ka retirement home sa Ohio.
Ginpakigbahin ni Hackman nga masami siya nga malipayon kag mahiligon nga makig-abyan.
Gintuad man niya nga adlaw-adlaw siya nga nagainom sang whiskey kag suno sa iya, isa ini sa nagapalawig sang iya kabuhi.
Itlog nga perpekto ang pagka-bilog, nabaligya sang malapit P15K
Amo ini ang aton pirme ginasud-an, pinakamahapos dakpon kun nagadali nga makakaon, nagapanamit sang mga linuto, kag paborito man sang mga kabataan.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga may isa ka itlog nga nagabalor sang malapit na sa P15,000?
Indi abi ini kinaandan kag sa pagkamatuod ginatawag nga “one-in-a-billion egg.”
Ang una nga nangin tag-iya sini amo si Ed Pownell nga residente sang Lambourn, Berkshire, South East England.
Suno kay Ed, hubog siya sang nagtambong sa isa ka auction kag tubtub subong wala siya nakahibalo kun ngaa nagpatuga-tuga siya nga baklon ang itlog sa balor nga P11,193.30.
Antes ini nakakadto sa auction, nabakal ini sang isa ka babaye sa local supermarket sa Scotland sang June 2023.
Natingala gid abi ang babaye bangud perpekto gid ang pagkabilog sang itlog kag sang iya ini gin-research, natukiban niya nga isa lang ini sa isa ka bilyon.
Wala niya ini ginluto kag sa baylo, gindala sa auction house nga Thomas Roddick Callan sang Agusto 2024.
Didto na kag nadag-an ini ni Ed kag apisar pa nga daw ka mahal gid sini, nangin proud owner siya sang perfectly-round egg bangud well-spent man suno sa iya ang iya kuwarta.
Gin-preserve na ini nga itlog, ginkakasan sang egg yolk kag egg white ukon buot silingon, shell na lang ang nabilin sa egg.
Ginpaminsar ni Ed ang potential market value sini kag nadumduman sini nga i-donate ini sa Iuventas Foundation nga isa ka charity para sa mentoring, life coaching, kag mental health support sa mga kabataan sa Oxfordshire.
Abi sang foundation “joke” lang ang itlog, apang sa bulig sang social media, naglapta ang istorya sini kag madamo ang nangin interesado.
Didto na kag nagdesisyon ang foundation nga ipa-auction ini.
Didto nabakal ang itlog sang malapit P14,926 kag kabahin sang masobra P373,000 nga natipon sang foundation bangud sa iban pa nga items nga ila gin-upod sa auction.
Tuman ang kalipay sang mga nagabug-os sa foundation bangud sa isa lang ka itlog, madamo nga kabataan ang mabuligan ilabi na ang nagakinahanglan sang suporta sa mental health nga amo gid ang ginatutukan sang ila management.
Establisyemento, nagatanyag sang serbisyo nga tampuyongon ang hubog nga mga customer
May tawo na bala nga nakatampuyong sa imo?
Masakit nga matampa ilabi na kun wala ka man sang sala… apang nakahibalo ka bala nga may mga tawo nga nagabayad para lang nga matampuyong sila bisan sa atubang sang publiko?
Popular ini nga slap service sa isa ka ilimnan sa Japan nga ginatawag nga Yotteba.
Kilala ang Yotteba sa ila manamit nga chicken wings kag barato nga beer, apang ang rason kun ngaa mas unique ang ila establisyemento amo ang espesyal nga serbisyo sa mga hubog nga customer.
Halin sang ginbuksan ini duha ka tuig na ang nagligad, ginpakilala nila ang serbisyo nga kilala sa locals bilang “binta” kun sa diin tampuyungon sang waitress ang customer para nga mamaras-masan sa kahulugbon antes sila magpauli.
Nagabayad ang customer sang P191 kag nagadugang pa sang P38 kun may specific staff member sila nga amo ang gusto nila ang magtampa sa ila.
Apang ini nga restaurant ang nagdesisyon nga untaton ini nga service sang damlag lang matapos nakabaton sang complaint halin sa isa ka customer nga ginaalegar nakaangkon sang injury bangud sa pagtampa sa iya duha ka bulan na ang nagligad.
Suno pa sa marketing official, daw lahog-lahog lang man kuntani nila ini apang nangin popular na, apang bangud may epekto naman ini sa ila nga reputasyon, nag-desisyon sila nga indi na ini paghimuon.
Nagadaku naman abi ang ila nga chain kag gusto sang management nga maayo ang ila nga imahe sa mga customer.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas sa Yotteba, may isa man ka ilimnan nga ginatawag nga Shachihoko-ya nga nagtanyag man sang kaangay nga serbisyo halin sang 2012 apang gin-untat sang COVID-19 pandemic kag wala na gintanyag liwat halin sang amo nga tion.
Propesyunal nga mga manugkalot, ginabayaran sang tubtub sa P7,600 kada oras
Nakahibalo ka bala nga may trabaho nga makalot ka lang sang likod sang tawo apang bayaran ka sang linibo ka pesos?
May mga tawo abi nga nabudlayan magtulog kag lakip sa ila nga ginahimo amo nga ginapakalot nila ang ila likod para nga makapiyong-piyong sila kag mamu-ukan.
Amo ina ang rason kun ngaa natukod ang labing-una nga professional back-scratching service nga ginatawag nga The Scratcher Girls.
Ang nangin utok gid sini amo ang 55-anyos nga sio Toni George nga isa man sa mga tawo nga nanamian gid magpakalot sa iya likod gani nga ginasugo niya pati ang iya mga apo para nga himuon ini.
Sang ulihi, napinsaran niya nga wala siya naga-isahanon, gani, what if maghimo na lang siya sang back-scratching service kag pabayaron ang mga customer?
Amo gid sina ang natabo, apang antes gintukod ang The Scratcher Girls brand, madamo pa nga pagtuon ang ila ginhimo.
Propesyunal ini nga serbisyo bangud therapist ang nagahimo sini kag nagagamit sang iya kuko sa likod, limbs, scalp kag mangin sa dulunggan sang customer para nga maka-relax sila.
Light scratching kag tracing movements ang ginahimo sang therapist para mabuligan ang customer nga ma-release ang “endorphins” kaangay sang serotonin kag ma-connect ukon mabalanse ang “energy fields.”
Nagapanukot ang studio sang $130 ukon masobra P7,600 per hour para sa sini nga back-scratching kag tracing services.
Popular man ini sa US ilabi na sa ASMR community (autonomous sensory meridian response).
Ang tag-iya gid mismo kag ang iya therapists ang masami nagabyahe sa major metropolitan areas kaangay sang New York, Los Angeles kag Philadelphia agud nga mas madugangan pa gid ang ila nga mga customer kag mas mapakilala ang ila studio.
Sang tuig 2018, halos naalimunaw na ang madugay na nga handum ni John Marvin Marañon nga mangin isa ka abogado kaangay sang iya amay.
Nakaangkon siya sang avascular necrosis , isa ka kondisyon nga rason kun ngaa nangin bedridden siya sa sulod sang isa ka tuig.
“New Year sadto sang 2018, while nagaselebrar ang iban, ako ya nagasininggit sa kasakit,” pahayag sini.
Gindugang sini nga amo ini ang rason sang iya pag-untat sa law school.
“Bisan ang hangin… bisan ang slightest touch, nagasakit gid ang lawas ko,” pahayag pa ni John.
Dugang niya, duha ka tuig niya nga ginpunggan pati ang pag-ubo kag sip-on bangud tuman ka sensitibo ang iya lawas.
Sa bulig sang iya iloy nga isa ka nurse, iya amay, iya pamilya, iya mga abyan, kag hugot nga pagtuo sa Ginuo, nakabalik siya sa pag-eskwela sa law school sang tion nga may pandemya — tion nga nag-shift online ang mga klase.
Pagbalik sang face-to-face classes, naggamit siya sang walker kag nagtinguha gid nga makalakat kaangay sa iya classmates.
Bisan ano ka budlay kag bisan sang pisikal, mental, kag emosyonal nga mga pagpanghangkat, amat-amat sini nga ginlab-ot ang iya nagpahuway nga handum.
Sini nga 2024, isa siya sa nakapasar sa Bar exams.
No disability nor illness nor problem can hinder a determined person in his quest for excellence,” pagpakigbahin pa sang tumandok sang Leganes, Iloilo nga produkto sang Central Philippine University (CPU).
Ginpahayag sini nga antes siya mag-practice sa iya nga propesyon, tinguhaan sini anay nga maka-recover matapos nagpaidalom sa hip replacement surgery.#
Lalaki, nakabaton sang P5-M bilang settlement matapos nangin adik sa sugal bangud sa iya bulong
May isa ka lalaki nga nangin adik sa pagsugal kag adik sa pagpamakal bangud lamang sa iya gin-inom nga bulong.
Ini amo si Philip Stevens, 66, isa ka Briton.
Nagasuprer si Philip sang restless leg syndrome gani nga ginresetahan siya sang doctor sang Ropinirole nga isa ka dopamine antagonist medication.
Gin-inom man sini ang bulong apang wala siya napaandaman sang posible nga side effects kaangay sang impulse control disorder.
Suno sa natungdan, antes pa man ang iya medication, gina-enjoy na sini daan ang pagkadto sa karerahay sang mga kabayo apang mahinalungon gid siya sa iya mga taya.
Apang nanotisyaran sini nga sang nag-inom siya sang bulong, indi na sini makontrol ang iya kaugalingon.
Masami na ini nga nagataya gamit ang iya nga smartphone kag nagabugtaw pa siya bisan gab-i para lang nga maplastar kun pila kag kun kay sin-o siya magataya.
Magluwas diri, wala tuo man ang iya nga shopping sa mga panapton kag mga fishing equipment nga tuman pa ka mahal.
Apat ka tuig ang iya medikasyon kag apat ka tuig man nga nagpanglakaak ang iya gasto sa online gambling websites.
Sang ulihi, kasunod sang abiso sang isa ka doctor, gin-untatan sini ang pag-inom sang bulong.
Nag-untat man ang iya nga compulsive behaviours apang bangud wala sang nabaton nga advice nga amat-amaton lang ang pag-untat sa iya nga medication, nagsuprer man siya sang seryoso nga withdrawal symptoms.
Hamakon mo nga nagalalain ang iya mga bata bangud ginakumbinse niya ang mga ini nga magpaidalom sa DNA tests bangud kumbinsido gid siya kuno nga indi siya ang ila nga amay!
Sang gindangop na ang kaso sa abogado, na-istoryahan ang financial settlement.
Ginhatagan si Philip sang masobra P5-million apang wala gid nag-ako ang doctor nga siya ang may sala sa amo nga hitabo sa pasyente.
Nagpahayag naman ang mga abogado ni Philip nga kuntani magaserbe ini nga importante nga leksyon sa masunod nga mga kaso nga dapat mapahibalo gid sa pasyente ang tanan nga impormasyon nga kinahanglan mahibaluan kaangot sa possible nga side effects sang bulong nga ila ginatumar.
Nagapati ka man malas ini nga adlaw ukon wala, yari ang interesting facts may kaangtanan sa sini nga superstitious date:
* Ang kahadlok sa sini nga petsa ang ginatawag nga “friggatriskaidekaphobia” samtang ang mga tawo naman nga nahadlok sa number 13 ang naga-suprer sa ginatawag nga “triskaidekaphobia”.
* Ginakonsiderar nga malas ang numero 13 bangud nagasunod ini sa number 12 nga amo ang ginakonsiderar nga complete number — halimbawa, 12 ka bulan sa isa ka tuig, 12 ka zodiac signs, 12 gods of Olympus, kag 12 apostles of Jesus.
* May pila ka buildings sa madamo nga mga pungsod nga wala sang 13th floor, samtang may mga nagalikaw naman sa number 13 mangin sa mga ospital kag airline terminals.
Matandaan mo bala ang “Friday the 13th” movie nga gin-release sang 1980 kag ang remake nga ginpaguwa sa theaters sang 2009?
* Kilala si US President Franklin Roosevelt nga indi gid magbyahe sa 13th day sang anuman nga bulan kag indi man siya mag-host sang 13 ka guests sa kalan-an.
* Sanday Napoleon kag US President Herbert Hoover ang kilala man nga nagasuprer sa triskaidekaphobia.
* Sa Paris, mahimo ma-hire ang ginatawag nga quatorzieme ukon ang professional 14th guest agud nga makakas ang so-called bad luck nga dala sang number 13 amo man sang Friday the 13th.
Suno sa NASA, sa Friday (April 13, 2029), may yara sang large asteroid nga tuman kalapit sa Earth (10 times closer than the moon!) kag kit-anon sa Africa, Europe kag Asia apisar wala sang telescope!
Isa ka balay, may sulod nga masobra 600 Christmas Trees
Nakumpleto na bala ang imo Christmas decorations?
Kilala ang mga Pinoy kun pagahambalan ang pa-bongga-bongga kag palawig-lawig sang selebrasyon sang Paskuwa.
Apang may yara pa gid sang isa ka pamilya sa Germany nga world record holder gid bangud sa kadamuon sang ila Christmas trees nga lab-ot pati sa ila bathroom.
Ini amo ang pamilya nanday Thomas kag Susanne Jeromin sa Rinteln sa Lower Saxony sa amo nga pungsod sa Europa.
Hamakon mo nga 605 gid ka mga decorated plastic Christmas trees ang yara sa ila balay!
Gingamitan ini sang 120,000 Christmas baubles, 50,000 lights kag linibo ka Christmas figures.
Ginsuguran sang Hunyo ang ila pagdekorar kag lain-lain pa ang theme sa kada kahoy — may ara nga “Star Wars” kag may ara naman nga “The Simpsons” kag iban pa.
Suno sa mag-asawa, passion gid sang bana ang paghimo sini gani nga nadalahig pati ang bathroom… apang ang isahanon nga off-limits amo ang kuwarto sang ila bata nga babaye.
Ini na ang ika-anum nga tuig nga ginhatag sa ila ang world record sang most decorated Christmas trees sa isa lamang ka lugar.
Ginhatag man ini sang Record Institute for Germany sa ila pamilya sang 2017 tubtub sang 2021 kag sang 2023.
Lalaki, 21 ka adlaw nga napreso matapos nasal-an sang pulis nga cocaine ang iya dala nga pulbos
May isa ka lalaki sa Argentina nga makakaluluoy gid ang naabtan bangud lamang sa iya pagdala sang pulbos.
Ini amo si Maximiliano Acosta nga nagasakay sa isa ka bus sang nagsulod ang mga pulis para sa isa ka routine check.
Ginpanglantaw pati ang baggage sang mga pasahero kag nadugayan gid ang mga pulis sa bag ni Maximiliano bangud sa 18 ka containers sang pulbos.
Pila ka beses nga nagpaathag ang lalaki nga powder lang ang sulod sini kag personal niya ini nga gamiton kag nagaplano man siya nga i-resell ini sa Buenos Aires para nga makadugang sa income.
Indi kumbinsido ang mga pulis kag nagduda nga iligal ini nga droga.
Gindala sa detention si Maxi kag ang makakilibot pa gid, ginsulod siya sa presuhan matapos gin-alegar nga napamatud-an sa test nga puno sang cocaine ang 18 ka containers.
Wala man ginpahibalo ang pamilya ni Maxi kun ano ang natabo sa iya.
Bangud gin-anunsyo sang otoridad nga duha ka kilo kag 444 grams sang cocaine ang dala ni Maxi kag nakumpiskar nila sa bus operation, madamo ang nagdayaw sa mga pulis kag pati ang Minister of Security sang Argentina ang nag-share man sini nga balita sa social media.
Bangud sa padayon nga protesta ni Maxi, ginpaidalom sa lain pa gid nga laboratory testing ang white powder apang bangud madugay ang resulta, ginpabilin siya sa sulod sang presuhan kaupod ang mga criminal.
21 ka adlaw pa ang ginlawig antes napamatud-an sa ikaduha nga resulta nga plain gid lamang nga pulbos ang unod sang container rason nga gin-release si Maxi sa presuhan.
Sa baylo nga sorry ang iya mabaton, ginpamato-mato pa siya papauli kag nag-ayo lang siya sa mga motorista kun pwede siya pasakyon.
Nagrason naman ang Minister of Security nga masami gid man masal-an ang talcum powder nga cocaine gani nga nagpanigurado lamang ang security forces.
Building, palukpon agud sug-alawon ang bag-ong tuig sa Georgia, USA
Kun sa Pilipinas, naandan na ang pagpalupok sang lebentador kag paghiwat sang fireworks display kun nagasug-alaw sang bag-ong tuig.
Tuman ka pinasahi naman kun paano sug-alawon sang mga tawo didto sa Georgia ang nagahilapit nga bag-ong tuig.
May palukpon man sila, apang indi ini trianggulo kag indi man kamara.
Agud indi ka na magpalibog, ihambal ko nalang ah.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, ginbakal sang lokal nga gobyerno ang hotel sa balor nga $4.5 million sa isa ka federal bankruptcy proceeding.
Sang damlag lang, ginkasugtan nila nga mag-hire sang demolition firm agud palukpon ang building sa balor nga $2.6 million.
Suno kay Macon Mayor Lester Miller,1970 pa sang gintukod ang building apang kaangay nga wala gid nangin madinalag-on ang operasyon sini.
Dugang niya, nangin eyesore naman ini sa bilog nga komunidad rason nga gub-on nalang nila ini.
Sa subong, ginaplano na sang mayo ang demolisyon kag istoryahon man ang mga malapit nga property owners agud maprotektahan man ang mga ini sa tion nga palukpon na ang building agud sug-alawon ang bag-ong tuig.
Lalaki, nagpangsulod sa 1,000 ka mga balay agud makuha ang iya ‘stress’
Samtang kita naga-amat-amat edad, amat-amat man nga nagasalampaw ang aton mga katungdanan, problema, balayran, kalain sang buot, kag iban pa gid rason nga masami man kita nga nagaka-kapoy kag nagainit ang ulo.
Lain-lain man ang aton paagi nga maka-cope.
Importante gid ang pag-destress bangud para man ina sa pagpabilin sang maayo nga mental health.
Ikaw, ano bala ang imo ginahimo sa tion nga stressed ikaw?
Sa Japan, may isa ka 37-anyos nga lalaki nga gin-aresto ang mga pulis bangud sa trespassing sa propiedad sa Dazaifu sa southern part sang pungsod.
Sang yara na ini sa kustodiya sang otoridad kag sa dalayon nga pagpamangkot, nag-ako ang lalaki nga indi ini ang una nga propiedad nga iya ginsulod.
Pahayag sini, nagalab-ot na siguro sa 1,000 ka mga balay ang iya ginpangsulod-sulod kag ginhimo na niya ini nga hobby.
Suno pa sa lalaki, nagabatyag siya sang tuman nga thrill ukon excitement sa tion nga panumdumon niya kun madakpan ayhan siya ukon indi.
Sa sobra niya ka-excited, nagapalmahas gid ang iya nga palad, kag amo gid ini suno sa iya ang manami nga feeling.
Amo man ini suno sa iya ang iya paagi agud ma-relieve ang iya stress!
Bangud sini nga hobby, nagtupa siya sa kamot sang otoridad kag ginahulat pa kun ano nga mga kaso ang posible sini pangatubangon.
Simbahan sa Switzerland, nag-install sang AI-powered Jesus, makahangop sang 100 languages
Lain-lain ang reaksyon sang mga tawo kaangot sa diskusyon sa Artificial Intelligence ukon AI.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga indi lamang sa commercial ukon business industry ukon sa patag sang edukasyon ginagamit ang AI kundi mangin sa simbahan?
Agaw-atensyon gid ang ginhimo sang gamay apang dumaan kag maragtason nga simbahan nga amo ang St.
Peter s Church sa Lucerne, Switzerland matapos nag-install ini sang AI-Powered Jesus Christ nga makahambal sang tubtub sa 100 ka lengguwahe.
Gintawag ini nga “Deus in Machina” nga in-install sa confessional booth sa sulod sang simbahan sang nagligad pa nga Agusto 2024.
Kun magkadto ang mga tawo sa confessional booth, makit-an sa sulod sini ang screen kun sa diin makit-an ang avatar ni Jesus Christ nga mala-“hologram.”
Naka-program ang theological texts kun sa diin magahalin ang iya mga sabat.
Sunod nga gin-imbitaran sang simbahan ang visitors nga mag-atubang sa hologram ni Jesus nga nagasabat man sang real-time.
Paathag ni Marco Schmid, isa ka theologian sa St.
Peters Church, gin-abisuhan man nila ang visitors nga AI-generated ang ila istoryahan kag indi dapat sila mag-pangumpisal ukon mag-disclose sang mga personal nga impormasyon.
Ginklaro man nga isa lang ini ka experiment bangud gusto mahibaluan sang simbahan kun ano ang reaksyon sang tawo nga naga-istorya sa AI ni Jesus Christ kag kun ano ang gusto nila ipamangkot.
Sa duha ka bulan nga naga-operate ang Jesus avatar, nagdangat na sa masobra 1,000 ang mga bisita sa simbahan kag nag-atubang sa AI-powered Jesus Christ.
May mga Muslim pa gani nga nagkadto kag mga tawo halin diri sa Asya.
May mga bisita nga nagpakigbahin nga isa ka spiritual experience ang pakipag-istorya sa AI-powered Jesus Christ samtang may iban naman nga wala nanamian kag may reporters naman nga nagmuno nga sulit-sulit ang sabat sang AI kag cliche.
May iban naman nga negatibo gid ang reaksyon sa ginhimo sang local church sa avatar Jesus kag may Catholic colleagues nga nagaprotesta sa paggamit sang confessional para sa sini nga “experiment”.
Natalana nga igapresentar subong nga semana ang data sa installation sa sini nga avatar agud mahibaluan dugang ang ila nga mga reaksyon.
‘Shortest 1st date ever’: Babaye, ginbayaan sang iya ka-date matapos ang 45 segundos
Ano bala kalawig ang date kun bag-o lang kamo nagkitaay sang isa ka tawo nga posible mo maka-relasyon?
Para sa isa ka babaye sa Auburn, Alabama, USA, gina-uyatan niya ang record sang “shortest first date — ever!”
Gin-istorya ni Maggie Smith, 32, nga may yara siya sang nakilala nga lalaki sa isa ka dating app tubtub nga nag-sugtanay sila nga magkitaay sang personal.
Sa guwa sang isa ka restaurant, nagtabuay si Maggie kag ang iya ka-date, ginkup-an pa siya sini, kag ginpamangkot kun nagutom na siya.
Ginhagad siya sini nga magsulod sa restaurant para magkaon, kag nauna pa gani si Maggie sa paglakat kag sa iya naman likod ang lalaki.
Wala pa gani sila nakapungko, ginpapundo siya anay sang lalaki kag naghingyo kun pwede sila maka-istoryahanay.
Sang nakaguwa na sila sa restaurant, nagprangka ang lalaki kag nagsiling, “I’m sorry.
Na-shock ang babaye kag basta-basta na lang nga naglakat ang lalaki kag nagmato-mato na man lang drive pauli si Maggie.
Indi sini mahangpan kun ano ang rason kun nga 45 seconds lang gid ang kalawigon sang iya first date.
Pahayag pa sini, todo-make up pa siya antes naglakat.
Suspetsa pa sini, matuod nga daku ang iya lawas apang wala man niya ini ginatago sa dating profiles bangud may pictures siya nga yara ang tanan nga angle kag wala man sang filters.
Nagapati man siya nga indi weight factor ang rason bangud sa gab-i antes ang ila date, nagsiling pa ang lalaki nga nagaka-impress gid siya sa personality, intelligence, kag drive ni Maggie.
Sigurado man ini nga wala siya naghimo sang catfishing ukon ang paghimo sang fake online identity para makapanunto kaangay sang pagkawat sang personal information para makatindog bilang fake persona.
Positibo ang reactions kag madamo ang nag-encourage kay Maggie nga indi madulaan sang self-confidence matapos nga gin-share sini online ang iya eksperyensya.
Ginsiling man sini nga wala siya nadulaan sang kumpyansa sa kaugalingon bangud may duha siya ka trabaho, padayon ang pag-upod sa iya mga abyan, kag masami nagalantaw sang soccer games.
Labi sa tanan, open siya gihapon makipag-date, apang subong, gin-delete sini anay ang dating app sa iya smartphone bangud nagapati siya nga indi pa ini maayo subong sa iya nga mental health.
Pulis, nagbulig sa pagpabata sa isa ka iloy samtang nagalaslas si Super Typhoon Pepito
Nagbulig ang mga pulis sa pagbun-ag sang isa ka iloy samtang nagalaslas ang anay Super Typhoon Pepito sa Barangay Datag, San Andres, Catanduanes.
Base sa report sang San Andres Municipal Police Station, natabo ini sang nagalibot ang mga personnel sa barangay para sa ocular inspection ukon pag-check sa sitwasyon sa lugar agud malantaw kun may naguba nga mga balay, imprastraktura, dalan, kag iban pa.
Samtang padayon ang inspeksyon, may nagpalapit sa pulis agud magpangayo sang bulig nga madala sa ospital ang babaye nga manugbata.
Nag-responde ang otoridad kag ginkadtuan ang balay nga indi man tuman ka layo sa highway.
Pag-abot sa balay, nagaguwa na sang gamay ang bata kag wala nagduha-duha si Patrolwoman Cahriel Ann Tabirara nga magbulig ilabi na bangud isa man ini ka registered midwife kag nurse.
Sang nakaguwa na ang healthy baby boy, gindala ang mag-iloy sa Juan M.
Isa sa pinakaapektado ang Catanduanes sa pag-abot ni Pepito sa Pilipinas.
Sa Panganiban, Catanduanes ini nag-landfall sang nagligad nga Sabado sang gab-i kag lima pa sa anum ka isolated areas sa probinsya ang nagapabilin nga isolated (as of press time).
Masakiton nga lalaki, nakahigda pa sa hospital bed sang gindala sa bangko agud makumpirma ang identity
Nakaandan gid nga istrikto ang mga paagi sa pagkumpirma sang aton nga identity — halimbawa, kun may gawadon kita nga mga dokumento ukon may kuhaon nga kuwarta.
Para man ini sa aton nga seguridad kag proseso ini agud makalikaw sa mga criminal.
Apang sa natabo sa Shandong Province sa China, agaw-atensyon gid ang paagi agud personal nga makumpirma sang isa ka tawo ang iya identity sa bangko.
Ginpaathag sang pamilya sa bank manager nga na-ospital ang account holder bangud sa malala nga balatian.
Apang wala gid nagpadala ang manager kag gin-insister gid sa pamilya nga ang nagaisahanon nga paagi agud ma-access ang account sang holder amo nga dal-on ini sang personal sa bangko.
Nagsiling pa ang bangko nga pwede man makarga sa ambulansya ang account holder, apang nagpahayag naman ang ospital nga pwede lang mapaguwa ang ila ambulansya sa mga health-related emergencies.
Indi man makasarang ang pamilya sang private ambulance gani ang nabilin nga solusyon amo nga dal-on kag itulod ang hospital bed nga ginahigdaan sang pasyente pakadto sa bangko.
Madasig nga naglapta ang videos kag pictures sang nag-abot ang hospital bed sa bangko kag ginatinguhaan sang bata nga makapalapit sa counter sang clerk nga wala sang may bisan isa nga mabungguan.
Kinahanglan gid abi sang pamilya ang kuwarta para sa treatment, apang nagalain gid ang ila buot nga mabutang man gihapon sa katalagman ang kabuhi sang pasyente agud lamang nga ma-access nila ang kuwarta nila sa bangko.
Madamo naman ang nagsita sa bangko kag nag-apelar nga kuntani may yara man sang exception sandig sa ebidensya nga ginpresentar sang pamilya nga na-ospital ang ila himata kag nabudlayan sa paghulag.#
Iloy, nagpahimo sang presuhan sa ila balay para sa iya anak nga drug addict
Paano kun ikaw isa ka iloy nga may anak nga na-addict sa druga kag sugal?
Ano ang sarang mo himuon agud punggan siya sa tion nga siya ang mangin violent kag nagapanakit na?
Sa Buriram Province, Thailand, may isa ka iloy nga nag-agaw sang atensyon sang publiko bangud sa ginhimo sini para lamang protektahan ang iya kaugalingon kag mangin ang ila mga tupadbalay batok sa iya anak nga drug addict kag masami nagaagresibo ini.
Siya ang nagpahimo sang isa ka presuhan sa sulod sang iya balay agud masulod niya diri ang iya anak.
Ang kwarto may yara sang bed, bathroom, kag WiFi kag may CCTV man agud ma-monitor niya ang iya anak.
Apang sang damlag lang, nahibaluan sang otoridad ang ginhimo sang iloy sa iya anak kag ginmanduan ini nga gub-on ang amo nga presuhan sa iya balay kag pangitaan nalang ini sang maayo nga solusyon sa iya problema sa iya anak.
Nobyo, na-amnesia kag nalipat sa breakup, ginpangasawa ang iya ex-girlfriend
Nagapati man bala ikaw sa second chances?
Willing ka bala nga magbalik liwat sa imo anay kahagugma pagkatapos sang inyo breakup?
Ano man ang imo nga sabat, may ginasiling sa kanta nga “love moves in mysterious ways” kag siling nila, kun para kamo sa isa kag isa, magatabuay gid liwat ang inyo banas.
Pareho gid ina sa natabo sa mag-asawa didto sa Utah, USA nga sanday Jenna kag Mitchell Brotherson nga may indi kinaandan nga love story.
Malawig man ang relasyon sang duha, apang sadtong Pebrero 2020, nagsugtanay sila nga mag-break kag indi na lang pagpadayunon ang ila pag-updanay.
Sang nagpauli si Jenna, puerte ang iya hibi bangud daw nagatalang-talang siya nga wala na sang nobyo.
Pagkaaga naman, naglakat naman si Mitchell kag nag-ski.
Samtang naga-enjoy sa skiing, gintinguhaan sini nga mag-flip, apang sala ang iya landing, nag-una gid ang iya ulo, kag naangkon sang bad concussion.
Ang concussion amo ang mild traumatic brain injury nga nagaapekto sa pag-function sang utok kag bangud sini nagalingin ang ulo sang pasyente kag may mga hitabo nga indi niya madumduman ukon ang ginatawag nga amnesia.
Istorya pa ni Jenna, matapos ang aksidente, nakabaton siya sang text message kag tawag halin kay Mitchell nga nagapasugat ini sa ospital.
Bisan nagalibog ang ulo ni Jenna, ginsugat niya ini apang natingala pa gid siya nga pagkasunod nga inadlaw, sige-sige ang chat ni Mitchell kag ginahagad siya nga mag-date sila.
Tubtub sa spring break, adlaw-adlaw siya nga ginapangita ni Mitchell kag didto nga nakit-an liwat ni Jenna kun ano ini ka-thoughtful kag na-realize niya nga palangga pa niya ini.
Sang siya na ang nagprangka nga gusto sini nga magbalikanay sila, nakibot man si Mitchell nga break na gali sila.
Didto naathagan nga ang ila breakup ang parte gali sang mga hitabo nga nalipatan sang lalaki bangud sa iya naangkon nga brain injury.
Nagbalikanay sila kag Agusto sang amo man nga tuig, nag-propose si Mitchell kay Jenah sa Salt Lake City sa Utah.
Pagka-Septyembre, didto na kag nagpakasal sila sa amo man nga state.
Apat ka tuig na ang ila malipayon nga kabuhi bilang mag-asawa kag subong isa naman ka mommy si Jenna.#
Lalaki, ginpaistar ang lima niya ka ka-relasyon sa isa lamang ka housing complex nga lipod sa ila ihibalo
Nakabati na kita sang indi kinaandan nga mga istorya sang mga lalaki nga naga-duloble ukon naga-triple ang asawa apang wala man sang problema bangud nagakasugot man sila sa ila arrangement.
May iban man nga sugot nga buslanay lang sila sa ila nobyo kag friends pa gani sila tanan.
Apang paano naman kun dululungan kamo nga ginatunto tapos sa isa ka lugar lang kamo tanan ginapa-istar?
Amo naman ini ang istorya sang isa ka Chinese nga lalaki nga nakipag-relasyon sa lima ka mga babaye kag ginpapuyo tanan sa isa lamang ka housing complex nga lipod sa ila ihibalo.
Ini nga lalaki amo si Xiaojun, pigado, wala nakatapos sa pag-eskwela, kag anak sang isa ka bathhouse attendant kag isa ka construction worker.
Indi siya kuntento sa iya status sa kabuhi gani nagsugod siya sa pagpakuno-kuno nga manggaranon.
Nahulog ang buot sini sa lalaki bangud sa iya luxury items nga regalo nga lunsay man gali peke.
Nagpakasal sila kag nagbusong pa gani si Xiaojia apang sang ulihi, nadiskubrehan sini nga indi gali manggaranon ang iya bana.
Ginpalayas niya ini kag nagdesisyon nga mangin isa na lang ka single mother.
Wala gani isa ka semana, may naintuan na naman ang lalaki kag ini amo si Xiaohong nga nakilala niya paagi sa online game.
Ginpahulam siya ni Xiaohong sang P1 million bangud sa iya rason nga gamiton niya sa pagkaayo sa ila future home, apang likom sa ihibalo sang babaye, gingamit ini sang lalaki para ipabilin ang iya pagpakuno-kuno nga rich siya nga tawo.
Sang nagbusong ang babaye, nag-renta sila sang lugar sa building kun sa diin yara man ang iya una nga asawa.
Nagpadayon ang buluhaton sang lalaki kag nag-angkon sang relasyon sa university students nga sanday Xiaomin kag Xiaoxin kag nurse nga si Xiaolan kag palareho sila nga nag-istar sa isa lang ka residential complex apang indi sila kilalahay.
Kada isa sa ila ang nahulaman sang P122,900; P81,900; kag P65,500 sa lain-lain nga rason nga ginpapati sang lalaki.
Nabuking lamang ini sang nagsukot na ang estudyante nga nobya bangud ibayad na niya sa tuition fee.
Ginbayaran ini sang lalaki gamit ang counterfeit nga kuwarta nga ginsulod sa bag apang gilayon ini nga nadiskubrehan sang babaye.
Didto na kag ginreport ini sa pulis, nagsugod ang imbestigasyon, kag nabukaran ang tanan sini nga ginhimo pati sa iya una nga asawa nga inosente gid sa tanan nga mga hitabo kasunod sang ila pagbulagay.
Presuhon ang lalaki sa sa sulod sang siyam ka tuig kag walo ka bulan kag pabayaron man sang P983,700 bangud sa sala nga fraud, bigamy, kag theft.#
NASA astronauts, makaboto sa US elections bisan yara sa space.
Importante gid para sa minilyon ka mga Amerikano nga makaboto sa 2024 presidential election.
Bisan ano pa ina kalayo, nagapangita sila sang paagi nga ipain ini nga espesyal nga adlaw para makapili sang nagakabagay nga lider nga magapamuno sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika sa masunod nga apat ka tuig.
Bisan sa guwa sang Earth, nagakapangitaan sang paagi agud nga makapasakop sila sa eleksyon.
Subong nga 2024, ang American astronauts nga yara sa International Space Station ang nakaboto na sandig sa record sang Harris County Clerk of Court’s Office sa Texas.
Ini amo sanday Don Pettit, Nick Hague, Butch Wilmore, kag Suni Williams nga nag-post man sang ila pictures sa Instagram nga naga-suksok sang patriotic-colored socks kadungan sang Election Day.
Ang medyas sang duha ka NASA astronauts ang may nakasulat nga “Proud to be American.”
Kabahin sila sang masobra 1.2 million ka mga tawo nga temprano nga nagboto sa Harris County sa state sang Texas.
Apang paano bala nagaboto ang astronauts kun yara sila sa space station?
Ang astronauts nga nakahibalo nga wala sila sa Earth sa tion sang eleksyon ang mahimo maka-request sa Federal Post Card Applications nga magsumite sang absentee ballots ukon makaboto sang temprano nga may koordinasyon sa ila county clerk’s office.
Samtang, kun magboto sila samtang yara mismo sa space, mahimo ini mapadala sa USA kaangay sang data nga masami man nga gina-transmit sa tunga sang space station kag Mission Control Center sa Johnson Space Center sang NASA sa Houston, Texas.
Mabaton ang data paagi sa Near Space Network nga amo ang network sang antenna systems kag relay satellites.
Halin sa amo nga facility, isaylo sang NASA ang balota sa Mission Control kag diretso sa county clerk nga amo ang may katungdanan sa casting sang balota.
Encrypted ang balota kag mahimo lamang ma-access sang astronaut kag sang clerk.
Nahibaluan nga nagaboto na ang astronauts sa US elections sa sulod na sang halos tatlo ka dekada.
Si David Wolf amo ang una nga American nga nagboto sa space samtang sakay sa Mir Space Station sang Russia nga gin-operate halin sang 1986 tubtub sang 2001.
MILLIONAIRE THINGS: Misis nga gusto mag-bikini, ginbaklan sang iya mister sang isla
Madamo sa aton ang nagahandum nga mangin milyonaryo.
May ara man nga nagalahog nga kun indi pag-swertehon, at least mamana ukon mangasawa na lang sang milyonaryo ukon milyonarya.
Pero ano ayhan ang kabuhi kun ikaw ang nakasal sa isa ka multi-millionaire?
Ginpakigbahin ini sang isa ka sikat nga social media influencer sa Dubai, United Arab Emirates nga si Soudi Al Nadak nga tatlo ka tuig na nga kasado sa manggaranon nga tawo nga si Jamal Al Nadak.
Ginpasid-ing sang 26-anyos nga influencer ang iya kabuhi sa iya masobra 420K followers sa Instagram.
Pahayag sini, may istrikto nga mga pagsulundan sa iya bilang asawa kaangay sang pagdala sang bag nga dapat terno gid sa iya sapatos.
Indi man siya pwede mag-obra bangud ang iya bana na ang bahala sa tanan nga balayran.
Wala man siya nagaluto bangud adlaw-adlaw man sila nagakaon sa guwa.
Dapat man suno kay Soudi nga pretty siya pirme, kag para ma-achieve ina, adlaw-adlaw man nga gina-asikaso sang professional ang iya buhok kag make-up.
Ginpahayag sini nga Soudirella ang tawag sa iya bangud siya ang Princess ni Jamal.
Ari pa gid ang pwerte nga pagsulundan: indi siya pwede makapakig-abyan sa kay bisan sin-o nga lalaki!
Naangot man sa sini nga rule ang natabo sang nagligad lamang nga Septyembre.
Ginsugid ni Soudi sa iya bana nga luyag sini magsuksok sang bikini, kag nakahibalo ka bala kun ano ang ginhimo sang mister?
Ay abaw, para maka-bikini wear ang misis, ginbaklan niya ini sang iya kaugalingon nga isla.
Adlaw-adlaw man nga ginapakita ni Soudi sa iya followers ang iya lifestyle kag kun daw ano sila ka manggaranon rason nga madamo ang nagamuno nga wala na sila nanamian.
May mga nagakomento nga boring katama ang kabuhi sini kag daw kaangay nga napreso siya sa isa ka bulawan nga hawla bangud sa mga pagsulundan sa ila balay.
Taga-Sussex, England gid si Soudi kag nakasaylo lamang sa Dubai ang iya pamilya sang naga-edad siya sang sais anyos.
Nagkilalahay sila ni Jamal sa university sa Dubai kag tatlo ka tuig na sila nga kasado.
Airport sa Japan, wala nakadula sang bisan isa ka bag sa sulod na sang 30 ka tuig
Ilisipon na lamang ang inadlaw antes ang Christmas break — buot silingon, tion naman ini agud makabyahe ang kadam-an ilabi na ang mga estudyante.
Isa gid sa indi naton gusto ma-eksperyensyahan amo ang madulaan sang bag sa airport, apang masami gid ini nagakatabo ilabi na kun nagadugok ang mga pasahero.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga may yara sang airport nga 30 ka tuig na nga matinlo ang record kun halungay sang baggage sang pasahero ang pagahambalan?
Ini ang Kansai International Airport (KIX) nga amo ang ikapito sa pinakamasako nga airport sa Japan.
Pahayag sang paluparan, wala gid ini nakaagi-dula sang bag halin sang pagbukas nila sang Septyembre 1994.
Kada tuig, ini nga airport ang naga-average sang 20-30 million nga mga pasahero.
Madamo ang nagadayaw sa sini nga achievement, apang indi ini “big deal” para sa airport staff.
Suno sa Kansai, indi man ini “something special” bangud ginahimo lamang nila ang ila trabaho paagi sa paghalong sang gamit sang mga byahero.
Sa pagkamatuod, sini nga tuig, nakabaton sang award ang amo nga paluparan sa world’s best airport baggage delivery.
Ang naghatag sang pagkilala amo ang UK-based aviation ranking and rating website nga Skytrax.
Ang Kansai ang natukod sa artificial island sa Osaka Bay kag nagaserbe ini sa Osaka, Kyoto kag Kobe regions.
Para sa 2024, nagapang-18 ang Kansai sa lista sang best airport in the world overall, kasunod sa mga kaiping sini nga Tokyo, Narita (fifth place) kag Haneda (fourth).
Nahibaluan nga ang on time nga baggage arrival ang isa lamang sa factors nga ginalantaw kun mag-rank sa “world’s best” airport.
Ginakonsiderar man diri ang food and drink offerings, percentage sang on-time arrivals kag departures, kag siyempre, ang kalimpyo para kumportable man ang byahe sang mga pasahero.
Sa subong, nakatutok ang Kansai sa renovation kag bag-o nga security checkpoint bilang pagpanghanda sa Expo 2025 ukon kilala anay nga World’s Fair nga natalana nga patigayunon sa Osaka, Japan.#
Nobya, ginbuno ang iya nobyo matapos ginbugno sang iya schoolmate sa dalan
Kun bag-o pa lang ang relasyon, daw cute pa man siling sang iban ang pagselos-selos sa imo nga partner kay pagpakita lang ina kuno kun daw ano mo gid siya ka palangga.
Apang samtang nagadugay, madamo ang nagasiling nga makatalaka na ini ilabi na gid kun indi na makontrol kag nagapangimon na lang sa halos tanan nga tion.
Isa ka hitabo sa Argentina ang nag-ugat sa simple gid lamang nga selos kag naglab-ot sa isa ka krimen.
Isa ka adlaw, nagalakat-lakat kag naga-uyatay pa sang kamot ang 23-anyos nga lalaki nga si Mariano Grinspun kaupod ang iya 32-anyos nga nobya nga si Natacha Palavecino.
Samtang yara sa dalan, nasugata nila ang isa ka babaye kag ginbugno sini si Mariano bagud schoolmate gali niya ini sang una.
Nangamusta man lang ini, apang nangin bayolente na ang nobya ni Mariano tubtub nga gingabot sini ang iya dala nga kutsilyo kag gin-atake ang babaye nga nagpamugno nga si LC.
Natumba si LC sang naigu siya sang kutsilyo sa iya nga ilok, apang nalikawan na sini ang isa pa ka handos sang kutsilyo tubtub nga may nag-abot nga isa ka lalaki nga nagbulig sa iya kag nakaluwas siya sa krimen.
Sa pihak nga bahin, malas gid para kay Mariano bangud pagkatapos gin-atake sang nobya ang babaye, siya naman ang ginbalikid sini kag ginbuno sa dughan.
Base sa surveillance cameras sa area, nakabaisay pa ang magnobya antes nag-collapse si Mariano, kag sang ulihi, bisan haluson na ini makabangon, gin-atake pa gid ini sang iya nobya gamit lamang ang iya kaugalingon nga mga kamot.
Nagtawag man ang mga testigo sang emergency services apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang lalaki.
Base sa nagapadayon nga imbestigasyon, nahibaluan nga may history gid man sang pagka-bayolente si Natacha.
Sang 2021, na-convict man ini kag napreso sang isa ka tuig sang ginbuno man sa dughan ang iya ex-boyfriend.
Mangin si Mariano ang una naman gali nga naka-report sa pulis bangud sa mga pamahog sang nobya kag physical injuries nga iya naangkon.
Sa pagkamatuod, sang Hulyo sang nagligad nga tuig, may restraining order nga gindagdag rason nga indi makapalapit si Natacha kay Mariano apang sang nag-expire ang order, didto man gali kag nagdesisyon si Mariano nga hatagan sang one more chance ang ila relasyon nga amo naman ang ulihi bangud sa trahedya nga natabo bangud lamang sa pagbugnuhanay sa dalan.#
Bangkay, nagbulid-bulid sa tunga sang dalan matapos nahulog sa autofunebre
Tuman gid ang paghalong nga aton ginahimo para sa mga patay.
Ini bilang pagpakita man sang pagtahod sa tawo nga wala na sang kabuhi kag pagpakita man sang pag-unong sa iya pamilya nga puno sang kalisod.
Apang may mga amo man sini nga insidente nga wala gid nagakalikawan kag indi gid dayon madali-dali nga malipatan.
Isa ka motorista ang nakibot sang may nakit-an ini nga lawas sang tawo sa tunga sang karsada sa Stalowa Wola nga isa ka syudad sa southeastern Poland.
Tuman ang kakulba sini sa pagdumdom nga siya ang nakabunggo sa lalaki kag nadulaan ini sang pangalibutan sa tunga sang dalan.
Sang ulihi, naglapta na ang pictures sa social media nga nagahigda ang bangkay sa white striped pedestrian crossing matapos ini nahulog gali sa salakyan sang punerarya!
Gilayon nga nagpaguwa sang statement ang Hades Funeral Services kun sa diin gin-ako sini ang responsibilidad sa natabo nga insidente.
Ginbasol man sini ang unexpected technical failure sa electric tailgate lock sa autofunebre rason nga samtang nagabyahe, nahulog ang bangkay samtang pakadto-pakari man ang iban nga mga salakyan.
Ginsiling sang kumpaniya nga wala ini nakaabot sa high standards sang ila serbisyo kag tuman gid ang ila pag-sorry sa pamilya sang napatay.
Nagpangayo man ini sang pasensya sa tanan nga nakakita sang picture sang bangkay kag sa mga dismayado sa natabo nga insidente.
Lalaki, ginreklamo matapos nadakpan nga naga-simhot sang sapatos sang iya kasilingan
Nakakita ka na bala sang tawo nga ginahimo nga hobby ang pagsimhot sang sapatos sang iban?
Kun abyan mo ini kag daw ginahimo niyo nga sunluganay, daw okay lang para sa iban… pero ano abi kun indi mo kilala?
Amo ini ang natabo sa Greece sang isa ka 28-anyos nga lalaki ang ginreklamo gid sa pulis bangud sa indi kinaandan sini nga ginahimo.
Isa ka adlaw subong nga Oktubre, naaktuhan sang kasilingan ang lalaki nga nagasimhot gid sa ila sapatos nga ginbilin sa guwa sang ila balay.
Indi ini una nga bes nga natabo nga nag-trespass gid ang lalaki sa pribado nga propiedad para nga mapalapitan lang ang sapatos kag mahaklo ang baho sini.
Bangud ginkulbaan ang tag-iya, gintawag ang pulis kag nakalab-ot pa sa pagpasaka sang reklamo.
Sa atubang sang korte, ginrason sang lalaki nga indi man niya mapaathag kun ngaa nahimo niya ini.
Nahuya man ini sa iya ginahulag kag nagpasalig nga magapangayo siya sang bulig sa eksperto agud ma-check siya bangud sigurado siya nga isa na ini ka balatian.
Gin-ako man sini nga tatlo ka beses na siya nga nagsulod sa propiedad sang iya kasilingan para sa amo gihapon nga rason.
Pahayag pa sini, wala gid siya sang tuyo nga maghimo sang halit sa iban nga tawo.
Nagasanto man ini sa report sang mga tawo sa palibot nga wala gid man ini nangin bayolente bisan isa lang ka bes.
Bisan indi siya agresibo, ginpatawag gihapon sang 60-anyos nga kasilingan ang pulis bangud gusto man sini nga buligan ang lalaki nga atubangon ang iya kondisyon kag magpangayo na sang bulig sa propesyunal.
Sa pagkamatuod, mangin ang iban gali nila nga kasilingan ang naka-eksperyensya man sang amo nga indi ordinaryo nga hitabo sang nagligad nga anum ka bulan kag ang lalaki amo gihapon ang ginatudlo nga may kahimuan.
Nag-desisyon naman ang Single-Member Misdemeanor Court of Thessaloniki nga mag-isyu sang suspended sentence nga isa ka bulan sa presuhan kag tatlo ka tuig nga probation batok sa lalaki.
Away sang magkaingodbalay, naglab-ot gid sa korte bangud gid lang sa pagpamalo sang manok
Atensyon sa mga nagasagod sang manok–munga man ukon sulog!
Basi maka-relate ka sa sini nga espesyal nga balita.
Didto sa France, may isa ka tawo nga nagdangop sa korte agud ireklamo ang magahud nga pagpamalo sang manok sang iya tupadbalay.
Suno kay Franck nga amo ang tag-iya sang manok nga si Ricco, nakibot ini nga ginreklamo sang iya tupadbalay ang iya hinuptanan nga bantam nga manok.
Ang rason sang tupadbalay amo nga indi ini maka-enjoy sa iya garden kag indi man ini makatulog bangud sa kagahud kuno sang amo nga sulog.
Gintinguhaan nga ma-settle ini sa ila nga town hall apang wala gid sang solusyon.
Ginpamangkot pa gani ni Franck ang iban nila nga kaingodbalay kun nagahudan sila sa manok kag ang ila sabat, baliskad gid sa reaksyon sang tagreklamo bangud nanamian sila sa pagpamati kun ang manok nagapamalo.
Apang bangud nga indi gid mag-untat ang tagreklamo tubtob indi mangin malinong ang ila lugar gikan sa gahud sang manok, nagdangop gid ini sa korte.
Sa pagkamatuod, sa masunod nga tuig, natalana nga desisyunan ini sang judge.
Sa bahin naman ni Ricco, suportado ini sang publiko bangud may yara pa gani sang facebook support page nga ginhimo agud piliton ang tagreklamo nga magsaylo na lang sa ila nga lugar kag pabay-an ang manok nga magpaka-manok.
Lalaki nga salagudon, may apat ka asawa kag duha ka nobya, gusto makilala bilang ‘god of marriage’
Ang iban sa aton ang nagahandum gid nga maka-set sang record agud nga makilala kita sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Indi ini imposible bangud sa iban nga mga Pinoy nga nagmarka na sang ila pangalan sa world records — sa sports, sa pageant, sa paalam-alam, abilidad, kag sa iban pa nga mga patag.
Apang may isa ka lalaki nga lain pa gid nga lebel sang record ang iya gusto nga malab-ot.
Ini amo si Ryuta Watanabe, 36-anyos kag residente sang northern prefecture sang Hokkaido, Japan nga gusto gid kilalahon bilang “god of marriage.
Gin-istorya sini nga nakabatyag siya anay sang depression kag ginbayaan siya sang iya nobya, kag amo ini ang nagtulod sa iya nga magpangilala sa bag-o nga mga babaye gamit ang dating applications.
May ara na siya subong sang apat ka mga asawa kag duha ka mga nobya kag bisan trentahon pa lamang ang iya edad, 10 na ang iya kabataan.
Ang mga babaye nga gina-upod ni Ryuta ang makabig nga common-law in nature bangud iligal sa Japan ang polygamy.
Ginakilala sila nga mag-partner kag daw set-up man sang kasado nga mga indibidwal ang ila relasyon, apang wala lang sang formal registration.
Wala man sang trabaho si Ryuta sa sulod na sang isa ka dekada kag nagasalig lang siya sa mga sweldo sang iya mga asawa.
Bilang bulig sa ila, siya ang in-charge sa mga ulubrahon sa balay lakip na sa pagluto kag pagtatap sa mga bata.
Nagalab-ot ang ila expenses sa 914,000 yen (P350,000) kada bulan apang wala ini sang problema bangud ginatunga-tunga ini sang iya mga asawa kag mga nobya.
Ginsiling ni Ryuta nga nanamian gid siya sa mga babaye, kag wala man sila sang problema basta nagapalanggaanay lamang sila.
Kada babaye ang may yara sang kuwarto sa ila balay, kag nagasaylo-saylo lang siya kada gab-i kun sin-o ang iya tupadan.
Ginpadayaw pa sini nga 28 ka beses siya nga nagapakighilawas sa kada semana kag wala man nagapangimon ang iya mga babaye bangud mag-abyanay man sila tanan.
Sa pagkamatuod, gusto pa ni Ryuta nga makakita sang bag-o nga palangasaw-on.
Okay na sa iya nga makabata sang 54 ka bilog bangud ang gusto sini gub-on nga record amo ang iya sang Japanese shogun nga si Tokugawa Ienari nga napatay sang 1841.
Si Tokugawa nga amo ang longest-serving shōgun sang Tokugawa shogunate sang Japan ang ginareport nga may 53 ka bata kag may 27 ka ginapuyo nga babaye sang Edo Period ukon tunga-tunga sang 1603 kag 1868.
19-anyos nga indi man doktor, nagpangtatap sang pasyente sa ospital agud ma-eksperyensyahan ang iya ‘dream job’
Kun halimbawa abi, may mga sirkumstansya nga natabo kag wala mo gid nahimo ang trabaho nga imo ginahandum, ano ang imo masarangan himuon para nga malab-ot ini?
Sa United Kingdom, may isa ka 19-anyos nga babaye nga madugay na nagahandum nga mangin doctor.
Nabun-ag siya sa Bulgaria kag subong nagatinir sa West London.
Wala siya naka-eskwela sa medical school, apang indi gid makuha sa iya pinsar ang iya nga handum gani isa ka adlaw, nagsuksok ini sang bayo nga pang-doctor, nagsuok man sang gloves, kag nagsulod sa Ealing Hospital kag naglakat-lakat nga daw isa man siya ka physician.
Sa bilog nga adlaw, nagpakilala ni nga si “Dr.
Christina”, nagpangkuti ini sang medical instruments, nagpalapit pa sa ambulance kun may mag-abot, kag may ginbutang pa gani nga substance sa isa ka pasyente.
Wala gid sang nakamutik sa iya sa amo nga adlaw, gani kumpyansa siya nga mahimo niya ini liwat, gani nagbalik siya tatlo ka adlaw ang nagligad… kag may ginkabit na nga stethoscope sa iya liog.
Amo lang ina ugaling, sang nagpakita ini liwat sa ospital, didto na siya naaresto, ginkasuhan, kag ginpapanaogan sang sentensya nga 12 ka bulan nga probation kag 15 ka adlaw nga rehab activities.
Gin-ban man ini sa pagsulod sa National Health Service (NHS) facility magluwas lang kun may yara sang health emergency.
Naghagan-hagan ang sentensya sa iya bangud sa argumento sang abogado sini nga bata pa siya kaayo kag ang iya tuyo amo man lang nga malab-ot ang iya dream job nga mangin doctor.
Ginsiling man nga wala man siya sang nahimo nga malain sa iban nga mga tawo.
Nabukaran man sa imbestigasyon nga sang yara siya sa ospital, ginbulong sini ang pasyente nga naka-hospital arrest kag may duha pa ka pulis sa amo nga kuwarto.
Nakit-an man sa hospital CCTV footage nga may gingamit ini nga syringe nga may unod nga indi ma-identify nga substance nga amo ang iya gintublok sa pasyente apang maayo lang bangud wala man ini sang malain nga epekto.#
Baby nga nabun-ag nga daw palad lang kadaku, nakaguwa na sa ospital
Nakakita ka na bala sang bata nga daw palad lang kadaku?
Amo sini sang sitwasyon ni Baby Robyn nga ginbun-ag sang iya iloy sang Marso 2023 sang naga-edad pa lamang ini sang 23 ka semana kag duha ka adlaw.
Buot silingon sina, lima ka bulan nga mas temprano siya nga nag-abot sangsa petsa nga amo gid kuntani ang inugguwa niya sa kalibutan.
Sang nabun-ag si Baby Robyn, abaw, 11 oz lang gid ukon 328 grams ang iya bug-at kag ang iya palad ang daw kaangay lang gid kadaku sa kuko sang tawo!
Apisar amo siya sini kadaku sang ginbun-ag sa Grange Hospital sa Torfaen sa Wales,Great Britain, wala gid nadulaan sang paglaum ang iya 34-anyos nga iloy nga si Chantelle kag 38-anyos nga amay nga si Daniel.
May fundraising nga ginhimo para sa treatment sang baby samtang nga ginabutang lang ini sa sandwich bag para nga matatapan ang iya vital organs.
Indi man ini mahapos para sa ila bangud gina-oxygen ang bata kag ginapakaon paagi sa tubo sa iya ilong kag baba, gina-monitor ang vital signs sa tanan nga tion, kag may 30 ka doses sang bulong kada adlaw.
Apang strong si Baby bangud makaligad ang anum ka bulan, nasaylo na siya sa paediatric intensive care unit sa Children’s Hospital tubtub nga napaguwa na sang Septyembre sa labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang 18 ka bulan.
Tuman ang kalipay sang mag-asawa nga normal sila nga magpamilya sa isa ka balay.
Daku na subong ang baby, blonde ang buhok, kag chubby na ang iya gawi, apang may may feeding tube pa ini gihapon sa ilong kag may oxygen tube sa iya nga baba.
Gin-ako sang ginikanan nga abi nila sang una, imposible na nga mabuhi pa ang bata.
Nadiskubre man nga may brain damage ini anum ka bulan matapos ang iya pagkabun-ag, apang nagapabilin nga positibo ang bana kag asawa bangud nakahibalo sila nga wala sang imposible kaupod ang ila baby Robyn.
May ginhimo man nga social media page nga “robyn’s rainbow story” para mabuligan man ang iban nga pamilya nga may kaangay nga sitwasyon, kag para nga makabulig man sa fundraising para sa mga equipment kag therapies para sa dalayon nga pag-ayo sang bata.#
Piloto, na-heart attack; Misis sini nga wala sang training sa eroplano, napatigayon ang emergency landing
May mga tawo nga nakulbaan gid sa pagsakay sa eroplano.
Ano pa gid ayhan kun ikaw na ang mapalupad sini, tapos wala pa ikaw sang ihibalo kun paano ini imanehar?
Amo ini ang natabo sa mag-asawa didto sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika sang naabtan sila sang emerhensya samtang yara sa kahawaan.
Ang piloto amo si Eliot Alper, 78, samtang kaupod sini sa gamay nga eroplano ang iya asawa nga si Yvonne Kinane-Wells, 69.
Halin sila sa Henderson Executive Airport sa Las Vegas kag pakadto na kuntani sa Monterey, California.
Samtang nagalupad ang eroplano, gulpi lang nga gin-atake sa korason ang piloto.
Sa una, grabe ang panic sang asawa bangud magluwas nga malain ang kondisyon sang iya bana, indi pa siya makahibalo magmanehar sa eroplano kag wala gid siya nakaagi training.
Apang mind over matter , nangisog ini sa flight deck, ginkontak ang air traffic controller, kag ginsunod ang tanan nga ginahambal sini sa radio.
Pila ka minutos ang nagligad, natigayon ang emergency landing sa Bakersfield, California kun sa diin nagahulat ang emergency vehicles tubtub dalayon nga napa-untat sang asawa ang eroplano.
Gindala gilayon ang bana sa ospital, apang amo na lang ang paghilibion sang asawa bangud ginbawian gihapon ini sang kabuhi.
Madamo gid ang nagdayaw sa pagka-kalmado sang babaye kag mangin ang director sang airport ang nagbilib kag nagsiling nga wala pa siya nakaagi-kita sang amo nga insidente sa iya bilog nga karera.
Bilang pagsunod sa proseso, may imbestigasyon sa gihapon nga patigayunon ang Federal Aviation Administration kag National Transportation Safety Board kaangot sa amo nga insidente.
Tatlo ka pasahero nga nagasuksok sang crop tops, ginpapanaog sa eroplano
Uso gid subong amo ang crop tops ilabi na sa kababainhan.
Mahapos abi ini suksukon, mabugnaw, kag komportable kaayo.
Bisan gani sa lalaki, napa-crop top man pati ang two-time Olympic gold medalist nga si Carlos Yulo nga gin-istoryahan gid sang halos bilog nga Pilipinas nga mahilig sa fashion trend.
Apang paano kun bangud sa imo crop top, papanaugon ikaw sa salakyan?
Natabo ini sa tatlo ka babaye nga interesado gid subong nga mag-file sang reklamo batok sa isa ka kumpaniya sang eroplano matapos sila ginpapanaog bangud lang sa ila ginasuksok.
Nagsugod ang insidente sang nagsakay ang mag-abyan nga sanday Tara Kehidi kag Teresa Araujo nga halin sa Los Angeles, California kag pakadto kuntani sa New Orleans, Louisiana.
Sang nagsaka pa lang ang duha, may sweater pa sila, apang gin-uba man nila ini bangud wala pa ginapaandar ang air conditioning system sang cabin samtang wala pa naka-take off.
Pagkadugay-dugay, suno sa istorya sang duha, nagpalapit na ang lalaki nga flight attendant kag agresibo sila nga ginsilingan nga magsuksok sang bayo.
Nabatian ini sang isa pa ka babaye nga pasahero nga si Carla Hager nga sang amo nga tion may upod nga bata nga lalaki.
Ginsuportahan sini ang mag-abyan bangud magin-ot gid man sang amo nga tion, kag timing man nga naka-crop top siya kag naka-sweater.
Bangud sa komosyon, gin-uba man sini ang iya sweater bangud gusto gani sini ipakita ang iya suporta sa mag-abyan bisan indi man sila kilalahay.
Sang ulihi, baw… tatlo gid sila ang ginpapanaog sa flight kag wala ginhatagan sang refunds!
Bisan ang ikatatlo nga babaye, wala nakaluwas gani amo man ang bitbit sini sa iya bata samtang ginpaguwa sa aircraft.
Suno kanday Tara kag Teresa, ginsilingan pa nila ang attendant kun pwede nga masuksok lang sila liwat sang sweater, apang wala na ginpasugtan kag “ulihi na ang tanan.”
Naggasto naman ang duha sang 1,000 USD ukon P57,000 para sa last-minute flight pakadto sa New Orleans bangud didto sila maga-selebrar sang birthday ni Tara.
Tuman ang kalain sang ila buot sa natabo bangud daw kaangay suno sa ila nga ginkabig sila nga mga criminal bangud lamang sa ila crop top.
Base sa Contract of Carriage sang airline company, mahimo nila balabagan ang customer ukon pasahero kun sila ang naga-tiniil lang ukon indi nagakaigu ang bayo.
Wala man sini ginpahangop kun ang buot-silingon nila sa “lewd, obscene, or offensive in nature” nga mga bayo ang nagalakip pati sa mga crop-top.#
Job applicant, halos lima ka dekada ang hulat antes nakabaton sang reply
Kun naga-apply gani ikaw sa trabaho, masami nga hambalan ka sang imo prospective employer nga “hulat ka lang sa update ha, basi sa masunod semana ah.”
Indi gani silingan ka nga, “Don’t call us, we’ll call you.”
Sa masami, wala na nagaabot ina nga update, kag daw halangpon naman kun ano ang resulta sang imo application kun amo sina ang matabo.
Apang may isa ka babaye nga madugay gid nga naghulat sa sabat sang employer, kag siling gani nila, “better late than never.”
Nag-abot ang reply sa iya, apang lima ka dekada man ang nagligad.
Ang babaye amo si Tizi Hodson, isa ka 70-anyos nga Lola nga naga-istar sa Lincolnshire county sa England.
Sang 1976, nagpadala siya sang sulat sa isa ka kumpaniya agud mag-apply bilang motorcycle stunt rider.
Adlaw-adlaw niya nga ginalantaw kun may sabat na sa iya sulat, apang nalipatan na lang niya ang iya dream job, wala gid nag-abot ang reply.
Tubtub subong nga 2024, amo na lang ang iya kakibot nga ginbalik sa iya ang iya nga application letter nga may yara pa sang isa ka handwritten note.
Sa amo nga note nakasiling nga late delivery ang sulat bangud nakit-an ini nga nakabutang lang sa drawer.
Na-amaze gid si Tizi sa amo nga reply, apang wala siya nakahibalo kun sin-o ang nagbalik sang sulat.
Wala man siya nakahibalo kun paano siya natultulan bangud pahayag sini, halos 50 ka beses na siya nagsaylo sang ilistaran kag apat tubtub lima ka pungsod na ang iya natiniran.
Sang mga tinuig nga wala gid siya nakabaton sang reply sa iya application bilang motorcycle stunt rider, nag-apply siya sa iban nga trabaho kag nakapangabuhi man bilang snake handler, horse whisperer, aerobatic pilot kag nangin flying instructor.
Ginbalikan man sini ang tyempo nga arisgada gid siya nga mangin stunt rider kag wala man sini ginpahibalo sa aplikasyon nga babaye siya, bangud suno sa iya, gusto gid kuntani niya nga ma-interview kag nagpromisa pa siya nga wala siya sang labot bisan pila ka beses pa siya nga mabalian sang tul-an basta mabaton lang siya sa trabaho.
Turnilyo, duha ka tuig nga nagsupon sa ilong sang bata sa China
Ang ilong ang isa sa pinakasensitibo nga parte sang aton lawas kag dapat gid ini nga ginahalungan.
Apang kun kaisa, bisan ano nga paghalong, may matabo gid ya nga indi maayo.
Kaangay sang natabo sa pito ka tuig nga bata sa China nga sa sulod sang duha ka tuig, gin-antos ang baho sang tuktukon nga turnilyo nga nagsupon sa iya ilong nga wala man siya sang hinalung-ong.
Ang bata nagaistar sa Jiaozuo, sa Henan Province.
Suno sa otoridad, ginasugid sang bata sa iya ginikanan nga may yara siya sang napanimahuan nga indi manami nga baho apang indi niya mahibaluan kun ano ini.
Bangud indi man ini masimhutan sang iya ginikanan, wala na lang nila ini ginsapak sa pagdumdom nga imahinasyon lang ini sang bata.
Apang bangud nga sang damlag lang, masami na gid nagareklamo ang bata, nagdesisyon sila nga ipalantaw ini sa doktor.
Sa examination sa nostrils sang bata, nakit-an ang isa ka misteryoso nga butang sa iya ilong.
Sang gin-operahan ini, didto na nakit-an ang turnilyo.
Amo na lang ang pagpasalamat nila nga natapos na ang duha ka tuig nga pag-antos sang ila bata.
Chimpanzee, pito ka bulan nga ginkugos ang bangkay sang iya baby
Siguro ang aton mga iloy mismo ang makapamatuod sini kag kita mismo ang maswerte nga naka-eksperyensya sang amo sini nga sahi sang pagpalangga.
Apang nakit-an mo na bala ini sa isa ka sapat?
Sa Bioparc Valencia nga isa ka zoo sa Spain, madamo ang nakakilala sa chimpanzee nga si Natalia — indi lang ang iya pangalan ang popular kundi ang tumalagsahon sini nga istorya.
Nagbata si Natalia sa iya baby chimpanzee sang Pebrero, apang duha ka semana ang nakaligad, sa masubo nga palad, napatay ang bata sini.
Nangin mabudlay para kay Natalia nga magpaalam sa iya bata gani madamo gid ang nasakitan sang nakit-an kun ano ang iya nga ginhimo.
Bisan patay na ang baby chimpanzee, wala gid ini ginbuy-an sang iya iloy kag ginakugos gid bisan diin siya magkadto.
Wala sini ginhal-id ukon ginbutang sa duta ang iya baby tubtub nga naagnas na ini kag tul-an na lang ang nabilin.
Pito ka bulan sini nga ginkugos ang iya baby, kag subong nga bulan suno sa zoo, daw kaangay nga nabaton na ni Natalia ang kapalaran sang iya baby.
Naghalong gid ini sa pagbutang sa bangkay sang iya bata sa kahilamunan kag gintalikdan.
Gin-respeto sang mga zoo keeper ang paglalaw ni Natalia, kag sang ginbuy-an na sini ang baby chimpanzee, didto pa lang kag nagpahilabot na ang management kag ila ini ginlubong.
Antes gali ang natabo kay Natalia subong nga tuig, napatay man ang isa pa gid sini ka anak sang 2018 gani nga ginabantayan gid sang zoo ang iya nga behavior nga daw kaangay nga isa ini ka tawo.
Ginapaathag man sang zoo sa mga bisita ang pagginawi ni Natalia kag pati na ang pag-isahanon sini kun kaisa nga ginalantaw senyales gihapon sang pagpangasubo sini sa pagkadula sang iya nga bata.
Lalaki nga nag-cremate sa iya ido, nakatuga sang wildfire
Nakaagi ka na bala nga nagdabok sang basura, apang sang naglapta ang kalayo, nagsala-sala ka na kun paano mo ini mapatay sa kahadlok nga basi kun masunog pati ang inyo balay?
Ano pa gid abi ang imo palak kun halimbawa ikaw ang gintunaan sang isa ka wildfire?
Natabo ini sa isa ka lalaki sa western Colorado, U.S.A.
Isa ka adlaw, nagguwa ang lalaki kag ginsunog ang bangkay sang iya nga ido.
Base sa record sang korte, sang ginhaboy na sang lalaki ang spray can sa kalayo, naglupok ini, naglapta ang kalayo sa kahoy nga ingod sini, nagdaku ang sunog, naglapta kag nahimo nga wildfire!
Ang nasunog amo ang 28-square-kilometer private property, isa ka balay, kag ang halit nga natuga sini ang nagdangat sa $200,000 ukon ginabanta nga P11 million.
Nakilala ang lalaki bangud sang gin-report sa pulis ang wildfire, nakit-an pa ini nga naghalin sa lugar sang sunog kag nagagamit ini sang salakyan.
Nagapuyo man ang amo nga lalaki sa isa ka camper van nga malapit lang sa gintabuan sang sunog.
Nakit-an man sang mga imbestigador nga may mga tul-an sang ido sa lugar kag may yara sang nakasulat sa bato nga “Oct.
Ini amo ang ginatudlo nga lulubngan kuntani sang ido nga si Rocket.
Arestado na subong ang amo nga lalaki kag natalana nga kasuhan sang arson kag trespassing kasunod sang resulta sang pagpangusida sang wildfire investigators.#
Asawa, nag-file sang divorce bangud halos wala nagapaligo ang iya bana
Hambal nila kun palangga mo, batunon mo kun ano pa ina siya.
Pero may ara man ya nga wala ini natuman nga promisa bangud 40 ka adlaw pa lang sila nga kasal sang iya bana, nangampo na ini.
Ginaistoryahan subong ang isa ka babaye sa India nga nag-file sang divorce sa iya bana sa 40 ka adlaw pa lang bangud nga nagapaligo ini sang isa ka bes ukon duha ka beses lang kada bulan.
Ini nga asawa nga halin sa Agra, sa Uttar Pradesh state sang India, ang nag- approach sa local family counseling center agud ireklamo ang iya bana bangud sa mala-kanding sini nga baho.
Suno sa iya, halos wala ini gailis sang bayo kag sa tion nga maghulid sila, pamatyagan niya daw malumos siya sa ginahaklo niya nga baho sang iya bana.
Kasunod sini, nagpromisa ang bana nga mag-improve sa iya hygiene kag maligo adlaw-adlaw apang nanindugan ang pamilya sang babaye nga indi na ini luyag nga magpadayon pa ang ila pag-updanay.
Iloilo Provincial COMELEC, wala sang may na-record nga nag-file sang COC sa una nga adlaw sang filing
Wala sang may na-record ang Commisson on Election (COMELEC) Province of Iloilo sang nag-file sang kandidatura sa pinaka-una nga adlaw sang filing sang certificate of candidacy.
Renier Layson, Provincial Election Supervisor IV- COMELEC Province of Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga apisar sang wala sang may nag-file, makabig sa gihapon sini nga madinalag-on ang una nga adlaw sang kahiwatan.
Suno kay Layson, wala sang may nakit-an nga problema ang talatapan bangud man sa matalunsay nga koordinasyon sa kapulisan, election partners, kag stakeholders.
Nakabaton naman ang talatapan sang reports nga maga-file sang kandidatura si Iloilo 5th District Representative Raul “Boboy” Tupas sa Oktubre 3, 2024.
Samtang, sa Oktubre 7 naman maga-file sang candidacy ang grupo nanday Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor, Jr.
kag tandem sini nga si Anilao Mayor Lee Ann Debuque.
May duha naman ka mga na-record nga nag-file sang candidacy sa mayoralty sa pila ka banwa sa probinsya.
Ini amo sanday Passi City Mayor Stephen Palmares kag Maasin Mayor Francis Amboy.
Nahibaluan nga may yara na sang 128,165 ka mga voter’s registration ang na-record sang Provincial COMELEC sa Iloilo sugod sang Pebrero tubtob sang nagtakop ini sang nagligad nga Setyembre.
Bugas nga pinakamahal sa kalibutan, ginabaligya sa presyo nga P6,000 kada kilo
Isa ka man bala sa nagsalig sa presyo sang bugas nga P20 kada kilo?
Mahimo nga pamilyar ini nga promisa sa imo, kag mahimo nga nagalaum ka gihapon nga mahatagan ini sang katumanan.
Sa Japan, kilala indi ang pinakabarato nga bugas, kundi ang bugas nga ginakabig pinakamahal sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ginakilala ini sang Guinness World Record bilang “world’s most expensive rice” bangud nagapanglakaak sa P6,103 ang presyo sini kada kilo.
Ginatawag ini nga Kinmemai Premium rice apang indi ka man maghinulsol bangud amo man ini ang ginasiling nga pinaka-manamit nga bugas sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Na-develop ang Kinmemai Premium rice paagi sa pag-ululupod sang lima ka variety sang award-winning rice varieties sang Japan.
Ginpaidalom pa ini sa anum ka bulan nga proseso gamit ang proprietary rice-buffing technology sang isa ka rice corporation sa amo nga pungsod.
Magluwas diri, ang Kinmemai Premium rice ang napamatud-an man nga may superior nutritional values kumpara sa mga ordinaryo nga bugas sa merkado.
May ara ini sang LipoPolySaccharides (LPS) nga mas mataas sang anum ka beses kumpara sa conventional white rice.
Ini amo ang natural immune system booster nga makabulig sa ikaayong lawas sang tawo agud nga indi ini malatnan sang sakit.
Magluwas diri, ini nga bugas ang 1.8-times nga mas madamo sang unod nga fiber, kag seven times nga mas madamo sang Vitamin B1.
Sang 2016, ini nga klase sang bugas ang exclusive lang sa Japan, pero subong, ginabaligya naman ini sa Singapore.
20-anyos nga lalaki, ginkasuhan ang iya iloy bangud sa paghaboy sa iya comic collection
Ano ang paminsaron kag batyagon mo kun pahilabtan kag ihaboy sang iban nga mga tawo ang bagay nga ginahalungan kag ginapabaloran?
Mahimo nga maakig ka gid ukon magpanukot, apang ano abi kun si Nanay mo ang nakahimo sini?
Amo ini ang natabo sa isa ka 20-anyos nga soltero sa Taiwan nga mahilig gid sa paghupot sang mga komiks.
Nagapuyo ang lalaki kaupod sa iya 64-anyos nga iloy sa Chiayi City, Taiwan.
Natak-an na ang nanay bangud nga naga-damo nga naga-damo ang comic collection sang iya anak, kag pamatyagan niya naga-gutok na ang ila balay.
Isa ka adlaw, samtang nagapanglimpyo ang iloy, nakit-an sini ang 32-volume nga “Attack on Titan” manga collection sang iya bata.
Nanotisyaran sini nga daw daan na kag medyo basa pa ang mga libro gani nag-mato-mato siya nga i-recycle ini kag ihaboy ang iban para nga magligwa na.
Wala na siya nagpamangkot sa iya bata kun okay lang, gani nga sang nag-abot ang bata, amo na lang ang kaakig sini sa iya nanay.
Sa sobra niya nga kalain sang buot, nagpatawag pa siya sang pulis.
Sang ulihi, indi pa gid madala sa istorya ang bata, kag ginpasaka pa gid sini sa korte ang reklamo bangud suno sa iya, ginguba ang iya propiedad nga wala sang pahanugot halin sa iya.
Base sa argumento sang bata, ang “Attack on Titan” ang isa ka tuman ka popular nga manga gani pat-od nga mabudlay na makapangita sang kumpleto nga collection bangud wala na gani sang print sang 32 volumes bangud makabig na ini nga collector s items.
Nagrason man ang nanay nga medyo basa naman ang manga volumes kag nagapagutok lang sa ila balay.
Nagpahayag pa ini nga kun pwede, istoryahan na lang nila ini nga duha apang nagpamalibad ang bata.
Pebrero pa natabo ang insidente apang subong lamang nagpaguwa sang desisyon ang Chiayi District Court.
Ginmultahan ang nanay sang 5,000 Taiwanese dollars ($160 ukon masobra P8,900) bangud sa property damage.
Ini nga sentensya ang mahimo ma-commute sa community service.
Suno sa korte, indi husto nga wala sini gintahod ang property rights sang iya bata.
Ang malala suno pa sa Taiwanese media, tubtub subong, nagalain gihapon ang buot sang bata kag wala ini sang gana nga magpakig-istorya sa iya iloy matapos ang ginhimo sini sa iya paborito nga manga collection.#
Bata nga naglakat samtang nagakatulog, nakalab-ot sa tunga sang kagulangan
May kilala ka bala, ukon ikaw mismo, naga-eksperyensya sang sleepwalking?
Delikado ini bangud nagakatulog ka gihapon apang nagabangon ka kag maglakat… kag kun kaisa nagakabunggo ka pa.
Ginatawag man ini nga somnambulism, ginaangot sang researchers sa genetics, masami nga nagakatabo sa mga bata, apang nagakadula man kun magdalagku na sila.
Sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika partikular sa state sang Louisiana, may yara sang isa ka 10-anyos nga bata nga malayo ang nalab-utan bangud sa iya paglakat samtang nagakatulog.
Natabo ini kay Peyton Saintignan nga na-report nga nadula alas dies sang nagligad nga gab-i.
Nangayo na sang bulig ang mga ginikanan sini kag indi lamang ang Louisiana State Police ang nagpangita kundi ginatos na ka mga volunteer agud nga pangitaon kun sa diin ayhan nakalab-ot ang bata.
Lakip sa nagbulig amo ang drone operator nga si Josh Klober nga nagbyahe pa halin sa Arkansas pakadto sa Louisiana agud nga makabulig lang nga matultulan ang bata gamit ang iya drone.
Nalakip ang thermal imaging camera sa iya drone, kag samtang naka-set up ang mga gamit, madamo man ang nagalantaw sa flat screen TV.
Pasado na alas onse sang nakit-an ang bata nga nagabarikutot sa duta, wala na ang isa ka tsinelas, kag yara sa sulod sang kagulangan samtang mahamuok gihapon ang tulog.
Tuman ang kalipay sang pamilya nga nakita ang bata, kag sang ginpukaw ini kag gin-check, nakit-an nga nakagat lang ini sang lamok kag wala na sang iban pa nga samad sa lawas.
Suno sa pamilya, masami gid man nga naga-sleepwalk ang bata apang ini ang una nga bes nga nakaguwa na ini sa balay kag yara na sa tunga sang kagulangan samtang mahamuok gihapon ang katulugon.
Ang pag-sleepwalk masami nagakatabo isa tubtub duha ka oras matapos nga matulugan ang isa ka tawo.
Apisar nga ginaangot ini sa genetics ukon sulundon sa pamilya, ginaangot man ini sa pila ka mga rason kaangay sang stress, sleep deprivation, sleep schedule disruptions, brain-related diseases, kag mangin ang pila ka medications.
Amay, ginbutangan sang surveillance camera ang ulo sang iya bata nga babaye para ma-monitor ang tanan niya nga hulag
Ano ang masarangan mo ubrahon bilang isa ka ginikanan para lang mabantayan mo ang imo kabataan?
Kag paano kun ang imo anak may buot naman pero gusto mo bilang ginakanan, nahibaluan mo ang tanan niya nga hulag kag ginakadtuan.
Pat-ud nga indi mo masarangan ang ginhimo sang isa ka amay sa Pakistan para lang masiguro nga safe ang iya bata nga babaye.
Ang iya ginhimo, ginpabutangan niya sang surveillance camera ang ulo sang iya bata agud ma- monitor ang iya mga aktibidad sa bilog nga adlaw.
Sang ginpamangkot naman ang bata, ginsiling niya nga wala man sang problema ini sa iya.
Apisar madamo ang naham-ot, madamo man ang nakahangop sa amay kun ngaa ginahimo niya ini sa iya anak.
Pagdupla sang isa ka lalaki, nangin lyabe sa malapit na lang nga pagsolbar sa 36-anyos nga murder case
May mga kaso nga dalayon na lang nga nagakatulugan… malubong na lang sa limot apang wala pa gihapon nahatag ang hustisya.
Apang may mga kaso man nga kaangay sining natabo sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika kun sa diin malapit na lang dalayon masolbar ang isa ka murder case nga natabo sang 1988 ukon 36 anyos na ang nagligad.
Kaso ini sang 27-anyos nga babaye nga si Karen Taylor, residente sang Roxbury sa Boston, U.S.A.
Sang Mayo 1988, nagtawag ang iya iloy sa ila apartment, apang ang tatlo ka tuig nga bata ni Karen ang nakasabat kag nagpanugid nga nagakatulog ang iya mama kag indi niya ini mapukaw.
Sang ginkadtuan ang apartment, nakit-an ang lawas ni Karen nga nagahamyangon, nagapaligo sa kaugalingon nga dugo, kag may 15 ka mga pilas tuga sang pagkabuno partikular na sa iya ulo, dughan, kag liog.
Ang suspek nga naangot sa krimen amo ang lalaki nga si James Holloman.
Sang tion nga nakit-an ang biktima, nakit-an man didto ang cheke nga nakapangalan kay James.
May “scrapings” man sa kuko sang biktima, may duguon nga sweatshirt malapit sa lawas sini, kag may upos sa sigarilyo sa banyo.
Ginkulang sang forensic evidence gani nga bitin ang pag-link kay James sa pagpapatay kay Karen.
Apang nakakuha ang pulis sang DNA sa mga ebidensiya, gani na-profile sang mga pulis ang posible nga killer.
Abi sang tanan, malipatan na lang ang kaso, kag mangin si James ang wala nagdumdom nga mabuhi pa liwat ang amo nga istorya.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, sa isa ka simple nga adlaw, nagdupla siya sa guwa sang ila balay sa Boston, apang likom sa iya ihibalo, may mga operatiba nga nagkuha sang sample sa amo nga dupla kag ginpaidalom sa DNA test.
Ini nga sample ang nagsanto gid sa DNA nga didto naman nakuha sa kuko sang biktima, kag nag-match man sa duguon nga sweatshirt kag sa upos sang sigarilyo sa banyo.
Sang September 19, gindakop si James, ginpatigayon ang hearing, ginkasuhan ini sang first-degree murder, kag gin-detain nga wala sang piyansa.
Naka-schedule ang masunod nga hearing sa korte sa October 29, 2024.
Kumpyansa ang kampo sang suspek nga subong nagaedad na sang 65-anyos nga indi siya madutlan sa kaso.
Ginpabugal naman sang Suffolk County District nga isa ini ka ehemplo sang dalayawon nga investigative work sang detectives kag prosecutors gamit ang modern criminology science.
Labaw sa tanan suno sa district, isa ini ka oportunidad para sa mga himata sang biktima nga makit-an nila nga may manabat sa krimen kag mahatag na gid man ang hustisya apisar malapit apat ka dekada na ang nagligad.#
80-anyos nga Lola, kandidata sa Miss Universe South Korea 2024
Lain-lain ang reaksyon sang publiko ilabi na sang pageant fans sang ginkakas sang Miss Universe organization ang pila ka restrictions kaangay sang edad kag marital status.
Ginpasugtan man sini pati ang mga babaye nga may mga bata na nga mag-intra sa kumpetisyon.
Mahimo nga may nakit-an ka nga nga trentahon ang edad, apang nakakita ka na bala sang performance sang isa ka 80-anyos nga Lola?
Siya si Choi Soon-hwa nga amo ang pinakatigulang nga kandidata sa Miss Universe South Korea 2024.
Ginbun-ag siya Choi sang World War II kag isa siya ka survivor sang Korean War.
Magluwas nga isa nga isa na ka Lola, isa man siya ka professional model matapos nadiskubrehan ang iya potensyal sa pag-modelo sang siya naga-edad sang 76.
Suno kay Choi, sang nahibal-an niya nga wala na sang age limit, nag-desisyon siya nga magsulod sa pageant bilang katumanan sang iya handum sang una.
Ginsaysay sini nga ginpahigad niya anay ang iya handum nga mangin fashion model sang una kag ginpasulabi ang iya pamilya.
Sa pagkamatuod, nakaobra pa siya sa ospital bilang nursing assistant agud nga mabayaran ang ila daku nga utang.
Subong nga wala na ini sang ginkasakuan, naga-focus ini sa iya kaugalingon kag tuman ang iya kalipay bangud suportado sang iya mga anak kag mga apo ang iya pag-intra sa kumpetisyon.
Bisan tigulang na, madamo gid ang nagadayaw sa makinis sini nga panit kag katahum ni Lola Choi.
Ang magadaog sa kumpetisyon amo man sa iban nga national franchise amo ang magatiglawas sang ila tagsa ka pungsod sa Miss Universe 2024 sa Mexico.
Manugpangisda nga halos 50 ka adlaw nga missing, na-rescue sa tunga sang dagat sa Batanes
Dehydrated, indi halos makahambal, maluya, kag tuman ka niwang.
Ina ang sitwasyon sang 50-anyos nga manugpangisda sang nakit-an ini sa tunga sang dagat nga sakop sang Batanes matapos nga 46 ka adlaw nga na-report nga missing.
Ini amo si Robin Dejillo nga nakasakay pa sa gamay sini nga sakayang-pandagat sang tion nga nakit-an siya sang crew sang isa ka cargo boat.
Nakalampuwas ini sa masobra isa ka bulan nga pagtinir sa dagat paagi sa pag-inom sang tubig-ulan kag pagmantinir sa isda nga iya nahulik.
Ginkaon man sini ang bunga sang niyog nga nakit-an niya nga nagalutaw sa dagat.
Base sa incident report sang Coast Guard District Southern Tagalog sang Agusto 12, ginpahayag nga kaupod si Dejillo sa crew sang fishing boat nga FBca Leah June nga naghalin sa Purok Rosas, Brgy.
Dinahican, Infanta, Quezon sang Hulyo 16 para magpangisda sa Pacific Ocean.
Sang Agusto 4 sang aga, nagsakay si Dejillo sa gamay nga support boat nga FBca Leah June para magpangita sang lain nga fishing ground.
Wala na ini nakabalik sa mother boat apisar nga ginpaabot kuntani ini sang iya mga kaupdanan nga magbalik sang hapon sang amo man nga adlaw.
Sang ulihi, sang Agusto 10, nagbalik ang iya mga kaupdanan sa Infanta kag gindeklarar nga missing ang ila kaupod.
Insigida nga nagpatigayon ang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) sang search and rescue operation sa kadagatan nga sakop sang Quezon kag Aurora kun sa diin ulihi siya nakit-an antes na-missing.
Sini lang nga Huwebes, nakaagi ang isa ka cargo boat nga nagabyahe sa Batanes kag gilayon nga nagbulig ang crew sang nakit-an nila ang nagapalangluya nga lalaki nga nagasakay sa gamay sini nga baroto.
Gindala ini sa Batanes General Hospital kag gindapatan sang medikasyon bangud man sa indi maayo nga kondisyon tunga sang malawig nga sinemana nga pagtinir sa tunga sang dagat.#
Lalaki nga nagpangawat 27-anyos na ang nakaligad, nagbalik, nag-sorry kag gin-uli ang kuwarta
Bisan ano pa ang imo nga rason, sala gid ang pagpangawat.
Piso man ukon minilyon, basta indi imo kag ginkuha mo, pagpangawat man gihapon ang tawag dira.
Sang damlag lang, may isa ka tawo nga nagtandog sang balatyagon sang kadam-an bangud sa iya ginpakita nga paghinulsol sa iya pagpangawat halos tatlo ka dekada na ang nagligad.
Sang natabo ang Asian financial crisis sang 1997, may isa ka bata nga nagsaka sa bukid kag nagtaklas sa isa ka templo sa Gyeongsang, South Korea agud nga kuhaon ang ginabanta P1,200 nga donasyon.
Matapos sadto, nagbalik pa gid siya sa templo agud mangawat liwat, apang nadakpan siya sang monghe, kag ginpunggan ang iya tuyo.
Sa baylo nga magpangakig, nagpiyong lang ang monghe nga daw kaangay nga nagpangamuyo.
Natandog gid ang balatyagon sang bata bangud sa ginhimo sang monghe kag nagpromisa siya nga indi na maghilabot sa mga bagay nga wala niya ginapanag-iyan.
Subong nga 2024, matapos ang 27 ka tuig, nagbalik ang lalaki sa templo, gin-uli niya ang iya ginkawat nga P1,200 kag naghatag pa sang donasyon nga masobra P80,000.
May ginbilin man ini nga sulat sa donation box sang Tongdo Temple sa Jajangam Hermitage kun sa diin ginsugid sini ang istorya, kag nag-sorry man bangud sa iya nahimo sang bata pa.
Dugang sini, manugbata na ang iya asawa kag nagalaum siya nga mangin isa siya ka matarong nga amay paagi sa sini nga bagay.
I’m sorry again,” kabahin sang apology letter.
Ang gintumod sini nga monghe nga nakadakop sa iya ang nagatinir pa gihapon sa templo kag isa sa pinakanalipay bangud sa iya ginhimo nga pag-uli sang kuwarta.#
Lola, nakaluwas matapos ang duha ka oras nga engkwentro batok sa isa ka man-og
Bisan sa damgo, indi gid naton gusto ang eksperyensya nga ginakagat kita sang sapat kaangay abi sang man-og.
Pat-od nga nagakurog-kurog ka gid sa imo pagbugtaw!
Apang may isa ka babaye nga naka-eksperyensya sini sa Phra Samut Chedi district, Thailand.
Natabo ini sang nagligad gid lamang nga gab-i sa balay sang biktima nga si Arrom Arunroj, nagaedad sang 64-anyos.
Naga-isahanon siya sa puluy-an, nagpanyapon sang 8:30 sang amo nga gab-i, kag nagpanghugas sang pinggan sa guwa sang ila balay sang gulpi lang may nagkagat sa iya tiil.
Ini amo ang apat ka metros nga python nga nagabug-at sang ginabanta 20 -kilos.
Sunod siya sini nga ginburambudan kag apisar sang iya pagwaras, indi siya makasarang sa kakusog sang sapat.
Nagsinggit ang tigulang apang alas dies na kag nabatian sang kasilingan ang iya pagpangayo sang tabang kag nakapangayo sang bulig sa otoridad.
30 minutos pa gid ang ginlawig antes nakakas sang rescuers ang man-og.
May mga pilas na ang tigulang sa duha ka oras nga engkwentro sini batok sa sapat kag nagpalangluya na ini sa kakapoy gani gindala ini sa ospital.
Nahibaluan nga indi man venomous ang pythons apang ang ila kagat ang mahimo makatuga sang infection.
Sa subong, padayon pa sa pag-recover ang biktima sa ospital.
Pinakamalinong nga airport, makit-an sa Sri Lanka
Nakakadto ka na bala sa ginakabig pinakamalinong nga airport sa kalibutan?
Kun wala pa, ilagaw ko ikaw didto subong nga aga.
Ini amo ang Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport sa Sri Lanka kag nahamtang mga apat ka oras nga byahe ang kalayuon gikan sa capital city sang Colombo.
Ang paluparan may yara sang tuman ka diutay nga flights sa pihak sang dako nga size sang airport.
Makit-an sa Hambantota, ang Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport ang may yara lang sang pito ka tawo nga nagaagi sa terminal sini sa isa ka adlaw.
Ang paluparan napalibutan sang kagulangan kag gagmay nga villages.
Ang airport ginbuksan sang 2013 kag tubtob subong, nagamantinir lang ini sang pito ka pasahero kada adlaw bisan pa nga isa ini ka international airport.
Isa ka nanay, nagbun-ag sang baby girl samtang padayon ang sunog sa ila lugar sa Tondo
Ang kada iloy makapanugid gid kun ano kabudlay ang eksperyensya kun sila ang nagabata.
Apang imagine kun ano kabudlay ini para sa mga nanay nga nagbata sa tion mismo sang emerhensya kaangay sang sunog.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, natabo ang isa ka daku nga sunog sa residential area sa Tondo, Manila.
Nagsugod ang kalayo 11:00 sa aga sang Sabado kag nagmakot ini sa mga building nga may light materials kag madasig man nga naglapta pati sa kaiping nga mga komunidad.
Pasado ala una sang hapon sang amo nga adlaw, gin-raise na ang Task Force Bravo nga buot silingon malapit 30 na ka fire trucks ang kinahanglan.
Nakit-an man mangin ang helicopter sang Philippine Air Force (PAF) 505th Search and Rescue Brigade nga nagbulig, apang apisar sang pagbinuligay, 2,000 gid ka mga pamilya ang nawad-an sang puluy-an.
Sa tunga sining kasakuon, ginpatawag naman ang Philippine Red Cross (PRC) bangud may isa ka bata nga napilasan.
Nagresponde ang team kag samtang nagaparik-parik ang tanan sa sunog, isa naman ka 41-anyos nga babaye ang ila nakit-an nga manugbata na gid kag nagakinahanglan sang bulig.
Ginpasa sa lain nga crew ang pilason nga bata, kag wala man pagpangduha-duha ang Red Cross nga buligan ang nanay nga mapaguwa ang isa ka baby girl.
Sa subong, ang nanay kag ang baby ang pareho nga ginatatap sa Tondo Medical Center.
Malipayon naman ang Red Cross nga samtang masako ang tanan nga luwason ang kabuhi sa sunog, may “new life” pa gid nga nagdugang sa kalibutan.
Bana, gindakop bangud sa pagtawag sa iya asawa sang masobra 100 beses sa isa ka adlaw
Kun ikaw may ka-relasyon, mahangpan mo gid kun ano ka-importante ang pag-update sa isa kag isa kada adlaw.
Apang nakaagi ka na bala nga feeling mo daw na-harass ka na bangud sa sobra-sobra nga pagpanawag nga daw indi na gid insakto?
Amo ina ang nabatyagan sang isa ka 31-anyos nga babaye Amagasaki sa Hyogo Prefecture sa Japan.
Nagsugod ini sang nagligad nga Hulyo subong nga tuig sang nakabaton siya sang masobra 100 ka tawag kada adlaw halin sa isa ka tawo nga wala man gani nagahambal.
Puerte nga kulba ang nabatyagan sang babaye bangud sa makatilingala nga tawag, kag ginahulat man siya sang caller nga patyon ang tawag apang maga-call man ini gihapon liwat sang sulit-sulit.
Lain-lain kag anonymous ang phone number kag indi ma-block sang babaye.
Sang ulihi, nagsobra na ini sa isa ka bulan, kag nag-amat-amat siya sa pagsuspetsa bangud ang tion lamang nga wala naga-tawag ang stalker amo kun naga-higda na siya sa kuwarto kag kun naga-uyat siya sang cellphone sang iya bana agud maghampang sang video games.
Indi na gid siya makaagwanta kag gindangop niya sa pulis ang reklamo tubtub nga sini lang nga Septyembre, nakumpirma ang iya pagpang-duha-duha kasunod sang imbestigasyon sang otoridad.
Sunod nga gin-aresto ang 30-anyos sini nga bana bangud sa paglapas sa anti-stalker law sang Japan.
Sang gin-usisa siya kun ngaa gin-harass niya ang asawa paagi sa tawag, simple lang ang sabat sang lalaki nga palangga niya ang iya asawa gani nag-call siya nga wala man sang ginahambal.
Nahibaluan nga common man sa Japan nga lain-lain ang balay sang kasado nga mga indbidwal ilabi na kun malayo ang trabaho, apang ini ang una nga tion nga may na-rekord ang pulis sa Amagasaki nga naghimo pa ang bana sang phone stalking apisar nga updanay man sila sang iya asawa sa sulod sang balay.
Isa ka kumpaniya, nagatanyag sang ‘paid date leave’ para sa ila mga empleyado
Nagalibog bala ang imo ulo bangud gusto mo na mag-date kag magpangita sa imo soulmate apang daw indi mo gid mabayaan ang nagatambak mo nga trabaho?
Siling sang iban, dapat nga tun-an mo gid ang healthy work-life balance para nga kahibalo ka sang imo himuon sa mga amo sini nga sitwasyon.
Sa isa ka kumpaniya sa Thailand, ang management na mismo ang nagatanyag sang paagi agud nga maka-date ang ila ginatos ka empleyado… apang siyempre, sa responsable nga paagi.
Madamo gid ang interesado bangud sa pinasahi nga benepisyo nga gin-offer nga amo ang “paid date leave.”
Partikular ini nga ginatawag nga “paid Tinder leave” nga isa ka unique benefit sa idalom sang Whiteline Group nga isa ka marketing agency sa Thailand.
Daw kaangay man ini sa sick leave ukon vacation leave, kag ang employee nga gusto mag-avail sini ang dapat nga maghatag man sang one-week advance notice para nga indi man mabutang sa alang-alang ang trabaho.
Wala ginhinambit sa reports kun tubtub pila ka adlaw ang pwede gamiton apang limitado lamang halin Hulyo tubtub Disyembre 2024 ang benepisyo nga ini.
Suno sa kumpaniya, ang ila mayor nga tuyo amo nga i-boost ang well-being sang ila 200 ka mga empleyado.
Magluwas sa paid date leave, may yara man sila sang paid Tinder Platinum kag Tinder Gold subscriptions sa sulod sang anum ka bulan para sa mga gusto mag-avail.
Nahibaluan man nga santo sa reports sang The Straits Times, may kaangay man nga benepisyo nga ginahatag ang influencer marketing agency nga Gushcloud International.
May one-day Tinder leave man ini para sa 300 employees sa mga offices sini sa Indonesia, Malaysia, Pilipinas, Singapore, South Korea, kag Thailand.
Paathag sang management, paagi man nila sa pagtatap sa ila empleyado amo ang pag-ulikid sa ila nga healthy social life partikular ang ila relationship goals — pagpakigkita man ini sa iban nga mga tawo, pagpakig-abyan, ukon pagpangita sang life partner.#
Lalaki, patay matapos gingabot ang 23 sa iya ngipon sa isa lang ka session
Kun bata gani ang dal-on sa dental clinic, pat-od nga malawig pa nga istoryahanay kag paathag ang kinahanglan antes ini mag-behave samtang ginagabutan sang ngipon.
Kun medyo may buot na, syempre wala na ina sang gamo..
apang daw indi man halandumon nga matabo sa bisan sin-o nga hamtong nga tawo ang kaangay sa na-abtan sang isa ka lalaki sa China.
Ini amo si Huang nga nga nagkadto sa clinic sa Yongkang City, Zhejiang Province, China.
Sa isa lang ka session, 23 sa iya ngipon ang gingabot kag ginbutangan sang 12 ka bag-o nga bulos!
Natabo ini sang nagligad lamang nga Agusto 15, apang makaligad nga 13 ka adlaw, sa masubo nga bahin, napatay gid ang lalaki.
Sunod nga nagpalapit ang iya anak sa Municipal Health Bureau agud mag-file sang reklamo.
Ginsiling sini nga pagkatapos sang session sa dental clinic, adlaw-adlaw na nga nagapalanakit ang bibig sang amay tubtub nga gin-atake ini sa korason sang Agusto 28 kag nangin rason sang iya kamatayon.
Nagpaathag naman ang dental clinic nga gin-determina sang dentista ang numero sang ngipon nga gabuton paagi sa face-to-face consultation kag physical condition sang pasyente.
Ginsiling man nila nga ang nangamot sa procedure amo ang isa ka dentist nga may lima ka tuig naman nga eksperyensya sa dental practice kag nalakip sa iya nga espesyalisasyon amo ang root canal treatment, removal sang impacted wisdom teeth, kag full dentures.
Nagpaathag naman ang Oral Medicine Center sang Wuhan Fourth Hospital nga apisar wala sang specific regulation kun pila ka ngipon ang gabuton sa kada session, maathag nga sobra-sobra ang 23 sa isa lang ka pagpungko.
Tubtub subong gina-imbestigaran pa ang amo nga kaso ilabi na bangud may nagapanindugan man nga lain ang rason sang kamatayon sang pasyente.
Ginrason sang iban nga halos duha ka semana pa ang nagligad halin sa kontrobersyal nga dental procedure antes ginbawian sang kabuhi ang amo nga lalaki.#
Mga balay sa syudad sa India, ginapangsulod sang buaya bangud sa paglapaw sang tubig sa suba
Isa sa pinaka-ginahadlukan sang tawo nga sapat amo ang buaya.
Tuman ka makatululublag ang mga balita kaangot sa mga lawas nga ginapangtulon sini nga sapat kag kun ikaw makakita sini, pat-od nga mapaspas ka gid sang dalagan.
Apang paano kun pagbugtaw mo, makit-an mo nga naga-‘chill chill’ ang buaya sa imo balay?
Amo sini subong ang sitwasyon sa syudad sang Vadodara sa state sang Gujarat sa India.
Natabo ini matapos nga naglapaw ang tubig sa suba kasunod sang sunod-sunod nga inadlaw nga mabaskog ang ulan sang nagligad nga semana.
Ang Vishwamitri River nga nagalaba sang 17-kilometros amo ang puluy-an sang ginatos ka freshwater crocodiles.
Ang mga tawo nga nagapuyo sa baba sang suba ang naanad na nga may mga buaya gid man nga nagapalapit malapit sa dalan sa tion sang monsoon season, apang lain pa gid ang sitwasyon subong nga tuig bangud magluwas nga nagdamo sila, mas nagpalapit pa gid ang mga ini sa residential areas.
Sang Agusto 27-29, masobra 20 sa ila ang gindakop sang otoridad samtang yara sa mga kabalayan.
Ang pinakagamay ang nagalaba sang duha ka tapak samtang ang pinakadaku naman ang nagalaba sang 14 ka tapak suno sa Vadodara Range Forest Office.
Halin sang nagligad nga semana, wala sang halos makatulog sang maayo bangud sang mga buaya nga nagakamang sa dalan, nagasaka sa mga atop sang balay, nagalangoy sa mga kanal malapit sa mga balay samtang may ginapang-it nga sapat kaangay sang ido, kuring… kag bisan baka!
Tubtub subong, ginapaaligmat ang mga tawo sa pamahog nga dala sini nga mga sapat samtang padayon naman ang otoridad sa pagsipot sa ila.#
Japanese nga P70 per day lang ang ginagasto sa pagkaon, nakabakal na sang 3 ka mga balay
Kun magkinot ikaw sa pagkaon kag maggasto ka lang sang tubtob sa 70 pesos kada adlaw, ano ayhan ang sarang kadtuan sang imo gintipon nga kwarta?
Masarangan mo ayhan magbakal sang balay?
May yara sang isa ka babaye nga 70 pesos lang ang iya gasto sa pagkaon adlaw-adlaw kag nakabakal sang balay.
Ini amo si Saki Tamogami, isa ka 37-anyos nga real-estate agent, kag kilala siya sa Japan bilang pinakamakinot nga babaye bangud sa iya commitment sa paggasto sang tuman ka gamay sa pagkaon kag mangin sa iya kinahanglanon.
Sang 19-anyos siya nag-umpisa sa pagkinot sang kwarta.
Sa edad nga 27, nakasupot ini sang kwarta halin sa iya sweldo kag nagbakal sang balay sa Saitama, north sang Tokyo, sa balor nga 10 million yen ($69,000).
Makaligad ang pila ka tuig, nagbakal ini sang iya second house sa balor nga 18 million yen ($124,000), kag makaligad pa gid ang lima ka tuig, nabakal niya ang ikatatlo nga balay sa balor nga 37 million yen ($256,000).
Sa pihak nga nalab-ot niya ang iya handom, padayon ini nga nagakabuhi nga makinot kag nagasupot sang kwarta agud nga magbulig sa mga gin-rescue nga kuring.
Nakabukas na ini gani sang cat cafe sa ground floor sang isa sa iya nga mga balay kag plano nga mag- invest sa iban nga properties sa palaabuton.
Lalaki, napurnada ang tuyo nga magpangawat matapos nawili sa pagbasa
Kun magsulod gani ang kawatan sa isa ka establisyemento, madasig ang iya hulag para nga indi na siya maabtan sang mga tawo sa palibot.
Apang lain pa gid ang natabo sa isa ka suspek nga nakasulod na sa iya target nga lugar, apang napurnada pa kag nadakpan pa sang pulis.
Isa ka 38-anyos nga lalaki ang suspek nga nagsulod sa apartment sa Prati district sa Rome paagi sa balcony.
Sang ara na siya sa sulod sang hulot, nakit-an sini ang isa ka lamesa nga may nakatungtong nga libro kaangot sa Greek mythology.
Ang title sini amo ang The Gods of Six O’clock nga ginsulat sang Italian author nga si Giovanni Nucci.
Bangud may hulag kag kalas sa apartment, nakabugtaw ang 71-anyos nga homeowner kag nadakpan sini ang lalaki nga nagatutok sa pagbasa sang libro.
Nagtuyo pa ini nga makapalagyo apang nakatawag na ang homeowner sa pulis.
Nag-rason pa ang lalaki nga nagsaka siya sa building para magbisita sa iya abyan, apang nagpinsar siya nga nagtupa siya sa B&B [bed &breakfast], nakakita sang libro, kag gin-umpisahan niya sa pagbasa.
Indi man ugaling mapatihan ang lalaki bangud nakit-an sa iya dala ang mga malahalon nga gamit nga ginkawat man sini sa lain pa gid nga balay antes siya nadakpan.
Sang nabatian naman sang book author ang balita, naham-ot pa ini kag nagpromisa nga hatagan niya sang libro ang suspek.
Nakuha pa sini nga i-angot ang suspek sa Greek mythology book.
Suno sa author nga si Nucci, ang iya paborito nga Greek god amo si Hermes nga amo man ang ginakilala nga god of thieves — pareho sa sirkumstansya kun sa diin nadakpan ang lalaki.#
Lalaki sa Nigeria, nangguba sang world record paagi sa 9 ka adlaw nga “read-a-thon”
Isa ka maayo nga paagi sa pag-develop sa aton ihibalo amo ang pagbasa adlaw-adlaw.
Ikaw, pila ka oras ang imo ginapain para nga makabukad ikaw sang libro ukon makapangita sang maayo nga content nga imo mabasa online?
Sa Nigeria, isa ka lalaki ang ginakilala subong nga amo ang naga-uyat sang pinakamalawig nga marathon sa bug-os nga kalibutan kun pagbasa sang matunog ang pagahambalan.
Ini amo si Samson Ajao, 27, residente sang Osogbo sa amo nga pungsod sa Africa nga nakabasa sa sulod sang 215 oras ukon isa ka oras na lang antes eksakto magtupa sa siyam ka adlaw!
Naguba sini ang anay record nga 124 ka oras nga gin-set sang 2022 ni Rysbai Isakov sang Kyrgyzstan.
Sa sini nga challenge, dapat nga sige-sige ang pagbasa sa libro kag wala dapat sang masobra sa 30 segundos nga pag-untat sa kada item nga ginabasa.
Kabug-usan nga 100 ka libro ang gingamit ni Samson lakip na ang subjects sa finance, sales, management, leadership, politics, health kag mental wellness.
Suno sa iya, ginhimo niya ini agud nga ma-promote ang literacy development kag ma-inspire ang reading culture sa Nigeria.
Bilang pagsulundan sa pinakamalawig nga marathon records, ginhatagan man si Samson sang tag-lima ka minutos nga pahuway sa kada matapos ang isa ka oras nga pagbasa — ukon buot silingon, duha ka oras lamang nga pahuway sa isa ka adlaw.
Sa sini nga breaktime lamang mahimo makatulog, makakadto sa bathroom, ukon makailis ang tawo nga naga-readathon.
Suno kay Samson, wala gid siya nagtulog-tulog sa iya break.
Antes ang record attempt, may abiso pa nga nakuha ang natungdan sa medical professionals kun ano nga pagkaon kag ilimnon ang iya dal-on kag paano halungan ang iya tingog amo man ang pag-minimize sang toilet break.
Pagkatapos nga nagmadinalag-on sa iya attempt sa Guinness, nagparada pa si Samson kag ang iya supporters lakip ang iya ginikanan bilang selebrasyon sa iya pinasahi nga nahimo.
Ini nga record ang may yara sang manggaranon nga maragtas.
Sang 1987, ang Englishman nga si Adrian Hilton ang ginkilala man bangud sa pag-recite sini sa complete works ni Shakespeare sa “bard-a-thon” nga naglawig sang 110 hours kag 46 minutes.##
Isa ka bald eagle sa USA, napasalwan nga makalupad bangud sa tuman ka busog
Naluwas ang isa ka una ginpahayag “injured” nga bald eagle gikan sa isa ka national park sa Missouri, United States of America.
Apang, ginkakibot lamang sang mga eksperto sang nasapwan nga ang bald eagle ang indi injured bangud tuman lang ini katambok pagkatapos nga makakaon ini sang tuman kadamo nga raccoon rason nga indi ini makasarang maglupad.
Santo sa Facebook page sang Wilson’s Creek National Battlefield, ang mga opisyales sang Missouri Department of Conservation ginpatawag sa park agud dakpon ang isa ka bald nga agila nga orihinal nga ginreport nga injured.
Ginpahayag man nga ang agila nakita nga mapagros apang puno sang raccoon — sa iban nga mga pulong, tuman ini katambok para sa paglupad.
Ini ang ginkumpirma man sang Dickerson Park Zoo matapos nagkuha sang X-ray sang agila, nga nagapakita sang isa ka bag-o nga pagkaon sang isa ka daku nga roadkill raccoon.
Sa ulihi nga bahin, ang agila gin-rehabilitate kag liwat nga ginbuy-an pabalik sa parke.
Solterito, nag-hunger strike para lang baklan sang iya iloy sang iPhone
Ano ang masarangan mo himuon agud lamang tumanon sang imo iloy ang gusto mo ipabakal sa iya?
Abi panumduma kag samtang nagapanumdom ka, sugiran ta nalang ka sang sini nga istorya.
Sa India, nag-agaw sang atensyon ang isa ka teenager nga nag-hunger strike agud piliton ang ia iloy nga magbakal sang malahalon nga cellphone.
Suno sa report, tatlo ka adlaw nga wala nagkaon ang solterito para lang nga maluoy sa iya ang iloy.
Nahibaluan nga isa ka manugbaligya sang bulak ang iloy kag gamay man lang ang ginakita sini.
Apang bangud sa ginhimo sang anak, napilitan gid ang iloy nga baklan sang cellphone ang solterito.
Matapos naglanog ini nga balita, madamo naman ang naluoy sa iloy kag mas madamo ang nagpakamalaot sa anak.
Lola, nag-skydive kadungan sang iya 102nd birthday
Ano ang imo ma-bida-bida nga adventure sa imo edad subong?
Basi pirdehon kag sang isa ka 102-anyos nga Lola nga “extra na extra” gid ang ginhimo kadungan sang iya kaadlawan sang nagligad gid lamang nga Agusto 25!
Ini nga centenarian amo si Manette Baillie, kasado sa isa ka paratrooper, kag naka-serbe anay sa Women’s Royal Navy Service sang World War II.
Wala sang kahadlok si Lola nga nag-skydive sa Suffolk, England kag matapos nakumpleto ang 7,000 ka tapak ukon 2133-meter jump, siya na ang ginakilala nga oldest skydiver sang Britanya!
Apang wala niya ini ginhimo para lamang sa titulo.
Kadungan sang amo nga challenge, ang iya natipon nga pondo nga $13,000 ang magakadto sa iya paborito nga mga charity sa nagkalain-lain nga United Kingdom.
Lakip sa iya ginpili nga charities amo ang East Anglian Air Ambulance nga amo anay ang nagluwas sa kabuhi sang iya anak nga lalaki sang naaksidente ini sa salakyan sang 1969.
Indi lamang pamilya kag mga abyan ang nagbantay kag nagpalakpak sa nahimo sang Lola bangud mangin ang mga miyembro sang Royal Family ang nakakilala sa iya kag bilib gid sa iya abilidad.
Lakip sa nagtamyaw sa iya amo si Prince William (nga amo ang masunod nga hari sang Britanya) nga nagpadala sang iya mensahe kaupod sa iya asawa nga si Princess Catherine ukon si Kate Middleton.
Indi man ini ang una nga tion nga may thrill kag challenge nga ginsudlan ang Lola sa iya kaadlawan bangud sang nagselebrar siya sang iya 100th birthday, nagmaneno ini sang race car sa official track sang British Grand Prix kun sa diin nakalab-ot ini sa 130 miles per hour.
Sang ginpamangkot sa iya panugyan sa mga bataon pa, ginsiling sang Lola nga dapat mangin busy gid pirme, mangin interesado sa madamo nga bagay, magpabilin nga mabuot sa mga tawo sa palibot, kag labaw sa tanan, indi gid magkalipat nga mag-“party” para maglawig ang kabuhi.#
BALITA E: Isa ka sulat ukon postcard, nag-abot matapos ang 121 ka tuig
𝗪𝗔𝗟𝗘𝗦— Masami naton nga ginasiling nga kon kita ang late amo ang “It’s better to be late, than never nor absent”.
Apang, sa isa ka tumalagsahon nga tinion, matapos ang isa ka siglo… late apang nag-abot gidman ang isa ka sulat.
Ang isa ka postcard nag-abot sa iya gintuyo nga destinasyon sa Wales 121 ka tuig pagkatapos sang petsa sa iya postmark.
Suno sa Swansea Building Society, ang postcard nag-abot sa ila Cradock Street, Swansea, nga address upod ang nabilin nga sulat.
Ang postcard gin-address kay Lydia Davis, nga ang mga empleyado nagteorya nga mahimo nagapuyo sa address sadto sang isa ini ka balay sa baylo nga isa ka bangko.
Ginpahayag ni Henry Darby, official marketing and communication sang bangko nga ang address husto, 11 (kag 12) pa sila sa Cradock Street, apang 121 ka tuig na ang ulihi sangsa ginapaabot nga ginakabig niya makahaladlok.
Ang selyo mismo amo si King Edward, bangud siya ang Hari halin sang 1901 tubtob 1910, kag mahibaluan mo gilayon gikan sa sinulatan kag sa paagi sang paghambal sini, nga ‘Dearest, I could not’, it was very much of the time.”
Si Darby nagsiling nga ang kalabanan sang postcard indi na mabasa karon, apang ang postmark may petsa nga Agosto 3, 1903.
Ang isa ka tigpamaba sang Royal Mail nagsiling nga ang istorya sa likod sang ulihi nga pag-abot sang postcard indi maathag.
Suno sa iya, mahimo nga ini nga postcard ginbalik sa amon sistema sa baylo nga madula sa koreo sa sulod sang kapin sa isa ka siglo.
Ginsaysay man sini nga kon ang isa ka butang ang yara sa isa sistema, obligado sila nga idul-ong ini sa husto nga address apisar nga makaligad pa ang pila ka dekada.
Kapin 200 ka flights, nakansela kag na-delay bangud gid lang sa nadula nga gunting
Ma-imagine mo ayhan kun ano ka gahmanan ang isa ka gunting?
Daw ka budlay gid panumdumon no bangud ang gunting ginagamit lang naton sa pag-gunting sang papel, buhok kag tanan nga bagay nga pwede gamitan sang gunting.
Pera nagsulod bala sa pinsar mo nga gunting mahimo mag-apekto sa operasyon sang isa sa busiest airport sa kalibutan?
Sang damlag lang, malapit 40 ka mga flights ang gincancel kag 201 ka mga flights ang na- delay sa isa ka Japanese airport.
Ini matapos nga nadula ang isa ka gunting sa isa ka store malapit sa boarding gates.
Kasunod sini, gin-suspend ang Security checks sa New Chitose Airport domestic terminal sa Hokkaido sa sulod sang duha ka oras nga nagresulta sa pagka-stranded sang ginatos ka travellers.
Naggilinutok ang mga pasahero sa departure lounge kag napilitan nga magpaidalom liwat sa security checks.
Gintinguhaan sang otoridad nga pangitaon ang nadula nga gunting nga sang ulihi, nakit-an man lang sa sulod sang amo nga store.
Apisar nga madamo ang nahul-an, madamo naman ang nagdayaw sa response sang airport sa insidente kag labi pa nga nagdako ang ila pagsalig sa Japanese air safety.
Ang New Chitose isa sa pinakamasako nga airports sa Japan kag nagaserbisyo sa second-most travelled domestic air route – sa tunga sang Tokyo kag Sapporo.
Sang 2022, masobra sa 15 million travellers ang naggamit sang amo nga paluparan.
‘The Toothache Tree’: Kahoy, ginadalaganan sang mga tawo sa tion nga magsakit ang ila ngipon
Daku gid nga problema kun maayo gid kuntani ang imo modo kag kadamo sang imo plano para subong nga adlaw, apang gulpi lang nagsakit ang imo ngipon.
Halos bilog nga lawas mo ang apektado kag nagakadulaan na ikaw sang gana, indi bala?
Didto sa isa ka lugar sa Nepal, indi clinic ang dalaganan sang mga tawo sa mga tion nga nagabatyag sila sang sakit sa ngipon kundi isa ka utod nga kahoy.
Kilala ini nga “Toothache Tree” ukon ang Vaisha Dev Shrine nga nahimo na nga tourist attraction kag nahamtang sa makitid nga kalye sa Kathmandu nga amo ang kapital sang Nepal.
Indi na maathag kun ano katigulang ang kahoy apang may nagasiling nga yara na ini sang tion sang Lichchhavi Kingdom nga nag-exist sa Kathmandu Valley halin pa sang 400 to 750 CE (Common Era)—ukon ang 1st millennium, ang 50th year sang 8th century, kag 1st year sang 750s decade.
Apisar moderno naman ang teknolohiya sa dentistry sa Kathmandu, ginapili gihapon sang kadam-an nga magkadto sa amo nga “Toothache Tree” para magbutang sang mga sensilyo bangud nagapati sila nga kuhaon sang diyosa ang ila dental problems.
Nagapati sila nga may imahe ang goddess sa sulod sang kahoy, apang tubtub subong, indi mapat-od kun yara pa ang imahe bangud buta na sang mga sensilyo ang kahoy kag wala gid sang nagakuti sini bangud sa ila pagrespeto sa kahoy.
Bangud kaladtuan ini sang mga tawo nga masakit ang ngipon, na-engganyo naman ang mga dentista nga magtukod sang clinic malapit sa lugar kag sa pagkamatuod amo ini ang dental district sang Kathmandu.
Tuman ka sikat ang lugar nga ini nga mangin ang mga turista halin sa amo nga pungsod ang nagatilaw man sa pagpangamuyo kun nabatian nila nga may goddess of toothache nga naga-istar didto.##
Lalaki, ginkawat ang motorsiklo nga iya lang kuntani i-test drive; Iya nobya, ginbilin kaupod sa seller
Na-eksperyensyahan sang isa ka babaye nga literal nga bayaan sang iya nobyo.
Natabo ini sa indi kinaandan nga insidente sa San Mateo, Rizal sang nag-transact ang magkahagugma agud makabakal sang brand-new nga motorsiklo.
Suno kay Rizal Police Provincial Director Police Colonel Felope Maraggun, naghingyo ang suspek sa seller nga i-test drive sini ang motorsiklo apang ulihi na natalupangdan nga wala na ini nagbalik kag nagpalagyo na dala ang scooter nga nagabalor sang P215,000.
Ginbilin naman sini ang nobya nga sang amo nga tion, naga-istorya sa manugbaligya.
Nagtinguha pa ang seller nga kontakon ang suspek apang indi na ini malab-ot rason nga nagpakig-angot ang biktima sa mga pulis sa San Mateo.
Wala naman nagpamalibad ang nobya sang gindala ini sang mga pulis sa presuhan.
Panindugan sini, nakilala lamang niya ang lalaki sa online dating app kag wala siya sang hinalung-ong nga mahimo ini sang iya nobyo.
Magluwas nga ginkawat sini ang motor, dala pa gid sini ang iPhone sang babaye.
“Wala po talaga akong kaalam-alam na ganun po yung gagawin niya sa motor.
Actually, daladala niya po yung iPhone ko po.
Biktima din po ako,” pahayag sang girlfriend.
Padayon pa subong ang follow-up operations sang mga pulis agud maaresto ang suspek, samtang nagapabilin naman ang babaye sa kustodiya sang San Mateo Police Station.
“Sana mahanap ka na kasi ako yung nagbabayad ng kasalanan na di ko naman ginawa.
Dapat ikaw yung nakakulong,” sukma sang babaye sa lalaki nga iya ginpatihan.
BALITA E: Bride, nakipag-divorce sa iya groom matapos ang tatlo ka minuto nga sila ang ginkasal
𝗞𝗨𝗪𝗔𝗜𝗧 — Nagbulagay ang isa ka mag-asawa sa Kuwait, matapos ang tatlo ka minutos sang ila ginhiwat nga kasal.
Ang natabo gintawag sang mga foreign news nga “probably the shortest marriage” kag “fastest divorce case” sa ila tagsa ka mga report.
Natabo ini sang 2019, apang nagguwa ini liwat sa social media kag nangin viral.
Suno sa istorya, ang mag-asawa nga nagpakasal sa isa ka korte sa Kuwait bag-o lang gindeklarar nga mag-asawa.
Pagguwa nila sa pwertahan sang venue, nasandad ang bride.
Nabatian niya ang nobyo nga nagtawag sa iya nga “buang.”
Nag-init ang nobya kag nagbalik sa sulod sang courthouse.
Sa amo man nga tion kag didto ginpangabay niya ang hukom nga kanselahon ang ila kasal.
Nagpasugot ang hukom kag nagpaguwa sang divorce decree tatlo ka minutos pagkatapos nila kasal.
Embassy in Kuwait, gindiskusyon ang pagbulagay sang mga babayi sa ila mga bana nga taga-Kuwait.
Ang “Shari’a” ukon “khali’a” ginsambit bilang isa ka opsyon sa diborsyo nga magamit para sa mga kababayin-an sa Kuwait.
Rason agud nga ang isa ka babayi mahimo magdiborsio sa iya bana sang madasig nga indi kinahanglan nga magpasad sang mga rason, kon magsugot siya nga ihatag ang iya mga kinamatarong sa propiedad kag mga pagkabutang sang iya bana (apang indi ang pag-atipan sang iya mga kabataan).
Pinakamahal nga lighter, P28 million ang presyo
ILOILO CITY- Ang lighter ang isa sa mga bagay nga kinahanglan ta apang indi man gid dako ang epekto kun ini ang madula bangud nga may posporo ka pa man nga mahimo magamit nga pangsindi.
Apang paano kun ang lighter nga ini ang tuman ka mahal nga ang presyo sini daw makabakal na sang malahalon nga salakyan?
Gamiton mo pa ayhan ini ukon masarangan mo ayhan ini nga dulaon?
May yara sang ginakabig nga pinakamahal nga lighter sa kalibutan nga ang presyo yara sa $500,000 ukon 28 million pesos.
Nadekorasyunan man lang ini sang 400 grams sang solid gold kag 152 sapphires nga nagalab-ot sa 41 karats.
Ini nga ginhimo sang French luxury brand S.T.
Dupont kag gintawag ini nga Louis XIII Fleur de Parme matapos nga gin- special request ini ni Steven Hung, isa ka Hong Kong billionaire nga may passion para sa French history.
Isa ka Seagull, ginkawat ang wallet sang lalaki sa isa ka Grocery Store sa USA
𝗠𝗔𝗦𝗦𝗔𝗖𝗛𝗨𝗦𝗘𝗧𝗧𝗦, 𝗨𝗦𝗔 —Magahatag sang reward ang isa ka lalaki sa Massachusetts sa pagbalik sang iya wallet pagkatapos ini nga ginkuha sang isa ka seagull sa guwa sang grocery store.
Si Noah Karberg sang Nantucket nagsiling nga nagbiyahe siya sa Stop & Shop pagkatapos sang adlaw nga siya ang nagpangisda sa isa ka isla.
Sa pahayag ni Karberg, iya ginbutang ang iya telepono kag wallet sa tray sa ibabaw sang shopping cart, nga nagapabilin didto samtang siya nagabutang sang groceries sa iya truck.
Suno sa iya, ginkuha niya ang nabilin nga mga bag sa backseat, nagbalik sa shopping cart, apang didto nakita sini nga may seagull nga nagapungko sa cart, kag direkta nga ginkuha ang iya wallet kag naglupad.
Bangud diri, nagkuha si Karberg sang video samtang ang seagull nagpadulong sa atop sa malapit nga car wash kag nag-umpisa sa pag-usisa sang sulod sang wallet.
Matapos ang hitabo, si Karberg nagsulat sa lokal nga Facebook group nga bisan sin-o nga makakita sang wallet mahimo magkuha sang nabilin nga kwarta kag nagahatag siya sang dugang nga $100 ukon P5,600 nga cash reward para sa pagbalik sang iya lisensya kag mga card.
Karne, 15 ka tuig anay nga ginatago antes ginakaon
ILOILO CITY- Nakatilaw ka na bala sang karne nga gin-preserve anay sang 15 ka tuig antes makaon?
Didto sa may Polmard, isa ka gamay nga farm sa Saint Mihiel, France, naga-produce sila sang ginakabig nga world’s most exclusive meat gamit ang proseso nga ginatawag nga hibernation.
Buot silingon,ang karne ang taguon sa sulod sang 15 ka tuig nga wala nagakabuhinan ang kalidad sini.
Suno kay Alexandre Polmard,isa ka sixth-generation farmer, breeder, kag butcher,ang ila pamilya naga-produce sang amo nga karne humalin sang 1846.
Apang mas nakilala ang ila Negosyo sang 1990s, matapos ang iya lolo kag amay ang nag-imbento sang bag-o kag revolutionary meat treatment nga ila gintawag nga ‘hibernation’.
Ang proseso nagalakip sang pagbutang sang karne sa -43 Celsius suludlan sa ila state-of-the-art laboratory kag ibilin ina sang masobra isa ka dekada nga indi maapektuhan ang ila kalidad.
Ang presyo naman sang isa ka kilo sang 15-year-old hibernated rib steak ang yara sa $3,200 ukon kapin P184,000.
Pila ka mga shark ukon pating sa Brazil, nagpositibo sa iligal nga druga
𝗕𝗥𝗔𝗭𝗜𝗟 — Kon masami, aton mabatian nga tawo lamang ang nagapositibo sa paggamit sang iligal nga druga.
Apang, sa isa ka tumalagsahon nga tion, nagpositibo sa cocaine ang mga pating sa baybayon sang Brazil.
Madugay na nga nagahambal ang mga manugpanalawsaw nga ang kabuhi sa dagat mahimo maapektuhan sang mga droga nga ginhaboy sa tubig sang mga smuggler, nga may tonelada sang cocaine nga makita sa palibot sang Florida, South and Central America.
Ang isa ka pagtuon gikan sa Oswaldo Cruz Foundation sa Brazil nakasapo karon sang ebidensya nga ang mga pating sa pagkamatuod apektado sang mga droga nga nagahigko sang kadagatan.
Gin-usisa sang mga siyentipiko ang 13 ka wild nga Brazilian sharpnose sharks nga ginbakal gikan sa magagmay nga mga sakayan sa pagpangisda, bangud ang mga species nag-uyang sang ila bug-os nga kabuh sa baybayon kag posible nga maapektuhan sang polusyon.
Gin-test ang muscle kag liver tissue gamit ang isa ka sulundan nga teknik nga ginatawag liquid chromatography nga may tandem mass spectrometry – sa diin ang mga molekula ginapain sa isa ka likido – sa pagpangita sang cocaine kag benzoylecgonine, ang panguna nga metabolite sa bulong.
Natukiban nga ang tanan nga 13 ka mga pating ang positibo sa cocaine, nga may konsentrasyon nga 100 ka pilo nga mas mataas sangsa ginreport sang una para sa iban nga mga tinuga sa tubig.
Ini ang una nga pagtuon sa pagpangita sang presensya sang cocaine sa mga free-range shark, kag natukiban nga ang substance mas lapnag sa tissue sang kaunuran sangsa mga atay sang pating.
Apang, ang pagtuon nagsiling nga ang patag sang pagpanalawsaw “tuman ka limitado” kag ang epekto sang cocaine sa kabuhi sa tubig indi pa bug-os nga nahibal-an.
Nahibaluan nga sang Hunyo sang nagligad nga tuig, ang US Coast Guard nakakuha sang masobra 14,100 pounds (6,400 kg) sang cocaine sa Caribbean Sea kag Atlantic Ocean, nga may ginabanta nga balor nga $186 million ukon malapit P11 billion.
Babaye, napreso bangud sa overfeeding nga rason sang kamatayon sang iya ido
Sa New Zealand, nangin-agaw atensyon gid ang kaso sang isa ka ido nga si Nuggi nga na-rescue halin sa iya tag-iya sa Auckland sang Oktubre 2021.
Sang nag-abot ini sa pagtatap sang Royal New Zealand Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, nagabug-at na ini sang 53.7 kilos kag indi na gid madala sang tiil sini ang kabug-aton sang iya nga lawas.
Suno sa mga nag-rescue sa iya, bisan nga dies metros lang ang kalayuon sang iya nga ginalakat, tatlo ka beses gid nga nagapundo si Nuggi bangud indi siya makaginhawa.
Bangud sa tuman nga tambok sa iya lawas, indi na halos ma-detect sang mga doctor ang iya heartbeat magluwas pa gid sa gin-suprer sini nga conjunctivitis.
May mga pilas man ini sa tiyan bangud ginapatihan nga nagaduot ang ini nga parte sang iya lawas sa duta bangud indi na gani ini makahulag.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ginahatagan ini sang tag-iya sang walo tubtub 10 ka parte sang manok kada adlaw kag may yara pa gid sang doggy biscuits.
Wala gid sang hinalung-ong ang tag-iya nga halos ginapatay na sini ang ido bangud sa iya pagpakaon sa iya.
Duha ka bulan pa ang gintinir sang ido sa pagtatap sang rescue group kun sa diin nagdangat sa 8.9 kilos ang ginbuhin sa iya bug-at, apang sang ulihi, napatay gid ang sapat bangud sa hemorrhage.
Ginkasuhan ang tag-iya bangud sa overfeeding kag sang sini lang nga semana, nagdesisyon na ang Manukau District Court nga pabayaron ini sang $720, gindumilian nga magpanag-iya sang ido sa sulod sang isa ka tuig, kag ginsentensyahan man ini sang duha ka bulan nga pagka-preso.
Pinasahi man ini nga kaso sa New Zealand bangud masami nga malnourished animals ang ila ma-rescue, apang nagpaandam man ang organisasyon nga makamamatay gihapon kag isa ka sala ang overfeeding sa mga sapat.
ILOILO CITY- Kilalahon ta ang pinaka-sensitive nga tawo sa kalibutan.
Sensitibo ini, indi bangud nga mahapos ini nga magsunggod kag maghibi kundi, mahapos nga magbatyag ang lawas sini kun may makaon ini nga pagkaon nga indi masahuan sang iya lawas.
Siya si Jenna Gestetner, 21-anyos sang Los Angeles, California, nga na-diagnose nga may Mast Cell Activation Syndrome (MCAS) sa bata nga edad.
Ang MCAS kilala bilang kondisyon sa diin ang pasyente naga- eksperyensiya sang sulit-sulit nga episodes sang symptoms sang anaphylaxis — allergic symptoms kaangay sang paghabok-habok, low blood pressure, nabudlayan sa pagginhawa kag iban pa.
Sa pagkamatuod, may yara ini sang 100 tanan ka allergies kag ginalimitahan lamang nga magkaon sang 13 ka pagkaon.
Suno kay Jenna, humalin sang 12-anyos siya, sa kada tion nga may ginakaon ini, masami siya makabatyag sang paglingin sang ulo, pagpalanakit sang lawas, kakapoy kag iban pa tubtob nga naglala ini.
Kag sang ulihi, didto na ini na-diagnose nga may yara siya sang amo nga kondisyon.
Tatlo ka Lolo, nag-updanay sa pagpangawat
Ano ang imo nga plano kun makalab-ot na ikaw sa retirement age?
Posible nga mag-enjoy ka na lang sa travels; mangin plantita kag mangin masako sa farm; ukon kun may pamilya ka na, mahimo nga mangin hobby mo na ang pag-atipan sa imo nga mga apo.
Apang sa Japan, pinasahi gid ang tatlo ka Lolo nga ginbansagan nga “G3S” bangud sa ila edad nga halos malapit na lang magpa-alam sa kalibutan, nasarangan pa nila nga mag-team up kag magpangawat sa mga balay!
Ini amo sanday Hideo Umino, 88, Hidemi Matsuda, 70, kag Kenichi Watanabe, 69, nga ginpahayag nga lunsay mga ex-convict.
Bangud nga ulupdanay sila anay sa presuhan, ginapahayag nga nagplano sila nga padayunon ang paghimo sang krimen apisar nakaguwa na sila kag apisar sang ila edad nga nagapalanakit na ang tuhod kag likod.
Gin-akusaran ang tatlo nga amo ang nagsulod sa isa ka balay sa Sapporo nga isa ka syudad sa Hokkaido sang Mayo kun sa diin ginkawat ang tatlo ka whiskey kag pagkasunod nga bulan, ginransak pa gid ang isa ka balay kag ginpangtaban ang mga alahas balor P374,000.
Gina-imbestigaran man sang pulis ang ila posible nga kahilabtanan sa 10 ka iban pa gid nga insidente sang pagpangawat sa Sapporo kag sa Ebetsu.
Nagaguwa sa inisyal nga imbestigasyon sang otoridad nga planado man ang tanan bangud si Lolo Hideo ang assigned sa pagsulod sa balay; si Lolo Hidemi ang getaway driver; kag si Lolo Kenichi ang magabaligya sang ila kinawatan.
Base sa pag-interogar sa ila sang kapulisan, gin-ako sang mga tigulang nga ginhimo nila ang krimen agud nga may yara man sila sang palangabuhian.
Isa ka lalaki, nagdesisyon nga mangin kriminal agud pamatud-an sa otoridad nga indi pa siya patay
Ano ang imo himuon mo kun isa ka adlaw, gindeklarar sang iban nga tawo nga patay ka na pero sa pagkamatuod, you are “alive, awake, alert, and enthusiastic”?
Mahimo nga daw makahalam-ot man ini sa una, apang kun ikaw ang sa sitwasyon sining isa ka lalaki sa India, mahimo nga manginit ka man kun indi ka pagpatihan nga buhi ka pa matuod kag may kinamatarong pa sa imo nga mga propiedad.
Kaso ini ni Baburam Bhil, 40-anyos nga lalaki sa Mithora village sa Rajasthan sa amo nga pungsod diri sa Asya.
Tuman ang kakibot sini Sang may ginpaguwa nga death certificate kun sa diin nakasaad ang iya pangalan, gani gintilawan sini nga i-correct ang sala paagi sa pagpalapit sa ila village kag state authorities.
Pila ka beses niya ini ginhimo apang wala ginsapak ang iya apelar kag ang malain pa, ginkumpiskar sang gobyerno ang iya mga propiedad bangud sa rason nga patay na ang tag-iya.
Diri kag napinsaran na sini nga mangin bayolente kag maghimo sang krimen.
Bitbit ang isa ka kutsilyo, ginsulod sini ang isa ka eskwelahan, nag-eskandalo, napilasan pa sini ang duha ka manunudlo kag isa ka ginikanan kag sang ulihi, gin-hostage pa sini ang mga estudyante tubtub nga nag-abot ang mga pulis.
Sang gin-interogar na, ginpaathag ni Rajasthan nga pila ka beses na siya nag-hingyo nga i-annul ang iya death certificate apang wala siya ginpatihan rason nga nangin desperado siya kag naghimo na lang sang krimen.
Ginpinsar sini nga kun maghimo siya sang eskandalo, arestuhon siya sang otoridad kag mapilitan ang pulis nga ibutang ang iya pangalan sa record — pamatuod nga buhi siya kag indi pa patay.
Sunod nga ginpaidalom sa detention ang amo nga lalaki, apang “big win” ini para sa iya bangud nag-gana ang iya plano sang gin-anunsyo sang otoridad nga imbestigaran kun ano ka matuod ang iya ginpaguwa nga alegasyon.
Duha ka babaye, wala napunggan nga magbun-ag sang lapsag sa kasagsagan sang Bagyong Carina; lapsag, ginhingadlan man nga Carina
MANILA – Kon ano kabaskog ang daludo sang tubig samtang yara si Bagyong Carina, amo man ang pagtodo pamwersa sang duha ka babaye, agud nga mapaguwa ang ila nga bata!
Duha ka kababainhan ang wala napunggan nga magbata samtang nagabaha bangud sa malain nga panahon nga dala ni Super Typhoon Carina.
Pila ka mga kababainhan ang nagbata kadungan sang height sang bagyo Habagat kag bagyo Carina sa Metro Manila kag isa sa ila, ang sa evacuation center nagbata.
Santo sa isa ka report nagsiling nga ang ginang nga si Maria Teresa Ragul nagbata sa isa ka evacuation center sa northern part sang Metro Manila.
Matapos nga ma-rescue sa ila puluy-an, si Ragul, ang nagbun-ag sang isa ka lapsag nga babayi sini nga Miyerkules, kag nagasiling nga ila nadesisyonan nga ang lapsag pagahingalanan nga “Carina” kasunod sang bagyo.
Samtang isa naman ka iloy ang nagbata sa sulod sang balay nga wala na madala sa ospital bangud man sa ginbaha ang ila lugar sa Barangay Talayan, Quezon City sang nagligad nga Miyerkules.
Sa separado nga report, ginpahayag nga pasado las 6:00 sang aga nag-awas ang tubig sa San Juan River nga kadungan sang pagkatawo ni Mikaela Bravo.
Sa istorya ni Dave, bana ni Mikaela, sang alas kwatro ginsugid niya sa iya lola nga nagasakit ang iya tiyan sang iya asawa, kon sa diin, wala sang baha sadto nga oras.
Apang, sang alas sais na, madasig nga nagtaas ang baha amo nga indi gilayon nga madala ang iya asawa sa ospital, rason nga didto ini nagbun-ag sa ila puluy-an.
Sa subong, si Mikaela, ang gindala sa ospital, yara na sa maayo nga kahimtangan, kag ang iya lapsag nga lalaki, ang ginpangalanan nga David Esther.
Lalaki, naka-set sang world record matapos masobra tatlo ka oras nga nag-twerk
Daw ano ka lawig ang imo nga masarangan kun saot ang pagahambalan?
Basi pa lang kag mapierde mo ining nalab-ot sang isa ka lalaki sa Nigeria nga nakahimo gid sang world record bangud sa kalawigon sang iya nga pag-twerk.
Ini amo si Babajide Israel Adebanjo nga nagpaathag nga indi lamang saot ang iya gusto himuon kundi isa ka misyon agud nga matib-ong ang iya kawsa nga mag-raise sang awareness kaangot sa depression kag kun ano bala ka-importante ang mental health.
Wala-untat nga nag-twerk si Babajide sa sulod sang tatlo ka oras kag 30 minutos.
Malipayon man sini nga gin-share ang acceptance email halin sa Guinness World Records nga nagakahulugan nga opisyal nga ginkilala sang organisasyon ang iya record-breaking achievement.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa tanan nga nag-suporta sa iya agud nga matapos ang amo nga journey nga puno sang enerhiya kag positibo nga panan-awan.
Para sa Nigerian dancer, indi lamang world record ang iya nahimo kundi isa ka selebrasyon sang determinasyon kag isa man ka panawagan para sa mental health awareness.
Mga babaye sa isa ka lugar sa Ghana, ginadumilian nga magbun-ag sa sulod mismo sang ila nga komunidad
ILOILO CITY- May nahibaluan ka bala nga lugar sa diin ginadumilian ang mga babaye nga magbun-ag?
Ang village sang Mafi Dove, sa southern Ghana, ang puluy-an sang kapin 5,000 ka tawo.
Apang mapati kamo kag sa indi, halos wala sang bisan isa sa mga residente sa lugar ang natawo sa amo man nga lugar.
Ini bangud sa dumaan nga pagpati nga ang pagbun-ag sa village ang nagadul-ong sang offense sa ila Diyos, sa diin ang mga babaye nga nagabusong ang ginadala sa malayo nga komunidad agud didto sila magbun-ag.
Apang bangud nga ang pagpugong sa tanan nga mga babaye nga magbata sa ila village ang halos imposible, ang mga katigulangaan sa Mafi Dove nagtuad nga may mga kaso sang mga lapsag nga ginbun-ag sa ila village.
Apang ini nga mga tumalagsahon nga kaso ang kinahanglan nga asikasuhon sang maayo agud indi maakig ang mga Diyos.
Ang pamilya sang iloy nga nagbun-ag ang dapat iga-alerto kun may matabo nga accidental birth agud sila ang makapatigayon sang ritual agud matinluan ang village kag mapakalma ang mga Diyos.
Apisar ang pagbun-ag sa village ang wala ginakalipay sang mga local leaders,ang mga nagalapas diri ang wala man ginasilutan sang komunidad.
Apang nagapati sila nga ang sin-o man nga iloy nga nagbun-ag sa village ang may risgo nga mag-angkon sang indi normal nga lapsag.
Sa subong, padayon nga ginakilala sang mga tawo ini nga tradisyon apang agud masiguro man ang kahimtangan sang nagabun-ag nga iloy, isa ka maternity clinic ang gintukod sa gwa sang village agud maka-deliver ang mga iloy sang lapsag nga mas malapit sa ila puluy-an.
Lalaki sa U.S., legal nga gin-islan ang pangalan sa ‘Literally Anybody Else’ agud nga magkontra kay Pres.
𝗨𝗦𝗔 — Legal nga nag-ilis sang pangalan sa Literally Anybody Else ang isa ka lalaki sa Texas agud mag-aplay para sa isa ka partikular apang mabudlay makuha nga trabaho: Presidente sang Estados Unidos.
Ang 35-anyos nga beterano sang militar kag manunudlo sang matematika sa isa ka middle school nga kilala anay sa pangalan nga Dustin Ebey, ang nagdesisyon nga magapadalagan sa pagkapresidente sang Estados Unidos agod magprotesta sa mga kandidato sang mayor nga partido karon nga amo si Presidente Joe Biden sang Democratic Party kag si anay Presidente Donald Trump sang Republican Party kag ipakita ang iya pagkadisgusto para sa isa ka sistema nga ang iya website nagasiling nga “masami nga gina-una ang mga inaway sang mga partido sangsa matuod nga mga solusyon.”
Si Else ang nagpadalagan sang isa ka write-in campaihg sa Texas, sa diin wala niya makuha ang kinahanglanon nga 113,000 ka mga pirma agud makasulod sa balota, apang nagapaabot nga makita ang ngalan sa balota sang Tennessee, kon sa diin nagsiling siya nga nakuha niya ang kinahanglanon nga kantidad sang mga pirma.
Gin-athag an ni Else nga indi kinahanglan nga parte sa pagkuha sang atensyon ang iya mga reklamo, kundi parte sa paghatag sang lugar para sa bisan sin-o nga nagapaambit sining mga reklamo nga magtingob sa isa ka sentro nga punto.
Proud naman nga gin-anunsyo ni Else nga si Neal David Sutz, isa ka citizen sa New York nga nagapuyo subong sa Switzerland, ang iya mangin kaupod kag ka-tandem sa pagdalagan bilang presidente sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Content creator nga nagabug-at lamang sang 25 kilos, gusto pa gid magpaniwang
Ano ang imo routine para malab-ot ang imo ideal weight?
Masami nga nagaka-inspire gid kita sa weight-loss journey sang iban nga tawo kag ang disiplina nila sa kaugalingon agud nga mangin fit ukon mabuhinan ang kabug-aton sang lawas.
Sa Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, China, may isa ka babaye ang agaw-atensyon gid bangud man sa content sini nga ginapakita para man mapabilin ang iya bug-at ukon mas magmag-an pa gid gani.
Ini amo si Ting Zi Baobao ukon mas kilala nga si Baby Tingzi.
Amo lang ina ugaling… madamo gid ang nagamuno sa iya bangud sa edad nga beintehon na kag may kataason nga five feet kag two inches, yara lamang sa 25 kilos ang iya bug-at.
Tuman ini kalayo sa ideal weight bangud kun basehan ang body mass index calculation, ang ideal kuntani nga bug-at para sa iya kataason amo ang 44.9 to 54.9 kilos.
Masami pa nga nagasaot si Tingzi sa iya videos kag masami man nagasuksok sang revealing nga mga bayo.
Makit-an gid kun ano ka niwang ang mga tiil sini kag kamot.
Nakibot pa gid ang iya viewers sang ginsiling ni Tingzi nga gusto pa gid sini nga mabuhinan ang iya bug-at.
Apisar may mga nagakadlaw sa iya, may yara naman sang nagpahayag sang ila concern kag nagtugda nga dapat magpangayo na si Tingzi sang urgent medical help bangud basi kun may yara ini sang anorexia nervosa.
Ang anorexia amo ang eating disorder kun sa diin ang tawo nga may amo sini nga condition ang nahadlok gid nga magtambok.
Kadam-an sang may mga amo sini nga kondisyon ang sobra-sobra gid kun mag-ehersisyo kag todo ang pag-limit sa ila pagkaon para indi madugangan ang ila bug-at sa lawas.
Bana, ginpa-tattoo ang tanan niya nga sala agud mapatawad sang iya asawa
ILOILO CITY- Ano ang himuon mo agud ipakita sa imo pinalangga nga ginahinulsulan mo ang imo pagpangluib sa iya kag tanan nga sala nga imo naubra?
Masarangan mo ayhan himuon ang gin-ubra sang isa ka lalaki matapos nga ini ang nagpa-tattoo sang listahan sang iya mga nahimu nga sala sa tiayon lakip na ang pagpangtunto.
Si Jose Torres sang pungsod Spain ang tuman nga ginkalangkaran, ginapakamalaut kag ginakadlawan sang kadam-an matapos nga naglapta sa internet ang laragway sini sa diin makita ang listahan sang iya mga nahimu nga mga sala sa iya tiayon.
Ang nasambit nga tattoo ang ginlakipan sang iya mensahe sa tiayon, bilog niya nga pangalan, petsa, kag ang makahuluya nga listahan sang iya mga nahimu nga pagpanunto sa iya tiayon nga nagsakop gid sa iya bilog nga dughan pakadto sa iya pusod.
Ini nga akto ni Torres ang may katuyuan nga mapakita kun ano ini ka sinsero sa pagpangayo sang patawad sa tanan nga mga sakit sa balatyagon nga iya nahatag sa iya nga tiayon kag agud nga mabalik ang pagsalig sini sa iya.
Bata nga nagatuon, ginbutangan sang dagom ang iya kinatawo agud kuntani indi siya pagtuyuhon
ILOILO CITY- Kalabanan sa aton ang nagainom sang kape agud indi pagtuyhon kun kita ang nagatuon para sa exam.
Apang sa China,may pinasahi nga pamaagi nga ginhimo ang isa ka bata agud batuan ang iya katuyo.
Sa Xi-an province sa China, may yara sang bata nga lalaki ang nangin kontrobersiyal matapos nga nakahimo ini sang tumalagsahon kag wala ginalauman nga pamaagi tuga sang pagka- desperado niya nga indi makabatyag sang katuyo.
Ang iya ginhimo, nangita siya sang dagum, kag gintuslok niya ini sa iya kinatawo.
Natigayon nga makabugtaw ang bata sang malawig nga inoras para makatuon apang sang nagbatyag na ini sang kasakit sa sulod sang iya kinatawo,diri na kag iya ini gin-ako sa iya iloy.
Gilayon nga gindala sa ospital ang bata kag nakuha ang 10 cm kalaba nga dagum sang iya lola.
Madamo naman ang nagduda nga ang ginhimo sang bata ang indi bangud nga gusto niya solusyunan ang iya katuyo.
Madamo ang nagapati nga pamaagi lang ini sang bata sa pag-explore sang iya sekswalidad kag lawas apang wala lang nagmadinalag-on.
Asawa, adlaw-adlaw nga ginatimplahan sang kape sang iya bana apang may simpon nga gali nga hilu
ILOILO CITY- Sin-o bala ang indi pagkiligon kun adlaw-adlaw ikaw nga ginatimplahan sang kape sang imo kahagugma,bana ukon asawa.
Apang paano kun ang ini nga kape nga nagapakilig sa imo amo man gali ang rason sang imo mangin kamatayon.
Didto sa Michigan, may isa ka lalaki nga ginsilutan sang mamag-an nga sentensiya matapos mapamatud-an nga guilty sa pagbutang sa kape sang iya asawa sang high doses sang sleeping pills adlaw-adlaw.
Si Therese Kozlowski ang nagfile sang divorce gikan sa iya bana nga si Brian, sang June sang 2018 pa apang nagpadayon sila nga nagaistar sa isa lang ka balay.
Si Brian pa gani ang nagatimpla sang kape para sa iya adlaw-adlaw apang gin-gamit gali ini sang bana nga oportunidad agud paimnun siya sang delikado nga doses sang diphenhydramine, isa ka antihistamine nga ginagamit sa pagbulong sa allergies kag insomnia.
Sang may nabatyagan si Therese kag nagduda sa iya bana, didto kag nag install siya sang hidden cameras aud hibaluon ang ginahimo sang bana.
Kag didto natukiban nga sa indi na maisip nga kahigayunan nga kaangay nga ginahiluan na siya sang iya bana.
Matapos ginkasuhan, napamatud-an nga guilty si Brian kag ginpamatbatan sang lima ka tuig nga probation kag 60 ka adlaw sa presuhan nga iya pa serbehan kun weekend lang.
Ginkadismaya naman sang asawa ang mamag-an nga sentensya sa iya bana.
Syudad sa Japan, ginadumilian ang mga tawo nga magkaon samtang nagalakat
ILOILO CITY- Mahilig ka bala mag-travel?
Kun ikaw magakadto sa iban nga pungsod ano ang ginahimo mo?
Sigurado gid nga nagakaon ikaw sa mga lugar nga ginalagawan mo.
Apang paano kun may yara sang ordinansa ang lugar nga imo kadtuan nga nagadumili sa pagkaon samtang nagalakat?
Interesado ka man bala sa gihapon nga magkadto?
Sa syudad sang Kamakura sa pungsod Japan, may yara sang ordinansa nga nagadumili sa mga pumuluyo ilabi na gid sa mga turista nga magkaon samtang nagalakat.
Suno kay Masa Hirokawa, tourism manager sang Kamakura, ginhimo nila ang nasambit nga ordinansa agud malikawan nga magdamo ang aksidente sa mga dalanon.
Dugang pa niya, luyag man nila malikawan ang mga basura sa dalan nga nagikan sa mga pagkaon nga ginakaon sang tawo samtang nagalakat.
Gani kun interesado ka nga magbisita sa Kamakura, Japan para sa imo nga bakasyon dumdumon nyo lang nga indi magkaon samtang nagalakat.
Lalaki sa UK, nabulag gid bangud sa masami nga pagkaon sang french fries kag potato chips sa sulod sang pila ka tuig
ILOILO CITY- Importante nga leksyon gid ang natun-an sang isa ka lalaki sa United Kingdom nga nakahiligan ang pagkaon sang French fries, potato chips, processed meat kag white bread sa sulod sang pila ka tuig.
Gin-report sang mga doctor sa UK ang shocking case sang teenager nga naguba ang mata tubtob naglab-ot sa punto nga nabulag ini bangud sa poor diet tuga sang pagkaon sang french fries, potato chips, processed meat kag white bread.
Ang Bristol-based teenager, nga nagpahinago sang pangalan, ang ginlaragway sang iya pamilya nga wala gid natolerar ang sabor kag texture sang utan kag prutas.
Una siya nga nagpakonsulta sa doctor sang siya ang 14, bangud nagabatyag siya sang kakapoy kag paglain sang pamatyag kag na- diagnosed nga may severe vitamin deficiency.
Siya ang ginpatumar sang supplements kag gin- abisuhan nga bag-uhon ang diet, apang wala niya ini gintuman, kag matapos ang tatlo ka tuig, siya ang na- diagnose nga may progressive sight loss bangud sa undernourishment.
Suno sa mga doktor, ini nga condition ang mabulong kuntani kun na- diagnose sang temprano apang sa kaso sang lalaki, ini ang nangin irreversible.
Bangud sini,siya ang nag-untat gid sa pag- eskwela gani tubtob subong, ginahinulsulan ang pagkahilig sa mga pagkaon nga indi masustansiya.
Lola sa New York, ginpadayaw nga ang pagpabilin niya nga ‘single’ ang rason kun ngaa naglab-ot sa 110 ang iya edad
Huo ikaw nga nagapamati nga ginbayaan,ginpahibi kag subong single na!
Kabalo ka bala nga kun single ka mas dako ang tsansa mo nga makaangkon sang long kag stress- free nga kabuhi.
Didto sa Manhattan,New York may yara sang isa ka tigulang nga nag selebrar sang iya ika 110 nga kaadlawan.
Ano ayhan ang sikreto ni Louise sa iya nga long life?
Suno kay Louise, ang isa ka sikreto niya agud maangkon ang stress- free kag malawig nga kabuhi amo nga ginpili niya nga mangin single kag mag- isahanon.
Dugang ni Louise, nangin masadya siya sa mga simple nga bagay nga ginhimo niya kaangay nalang sang pag exercise, kag paghampang sang Bingo kaupod ang iya mga amiga kada tapos niya panyaga.
Suno pa gid kay Louise, isa sa pinakamaayo nga nangin desisyon niya sa iya nga kabuhi amo ang wala sya nagpakasal.
Indi lang si Louise ang naga enjoy sang stress-free long life sa ila nga pamilya kaupod man niya ang iya nga manghod nga masobra 100 years old na man kag ang pagka- single man ang nangin sikreto.
Sales clerk, nasarangan masaulo ang mga detalye sang linibo nga credit cards sang iya customers
ILOILO CITY- Ano ka baskog ang imo nga memorya?
Sarang mo bala nga madumduman ang isa ka impormasyon sa sulod lang sang pila ka segundo?
Didto sa Japan may yara sang isa ka lalaki nga tuman ka tanda ang memorya.
Ang lalaki gin kilala nga si Yusuke Taniguchi sang Koto City, Tokyo, Japan kag isa ka store clerk.
Si Taniguchi ang may yara sang tuman ka tanda nga photographic memory ukon ang ginatawag nga eidetic memory bangud sarang niya nga madumduman ang mga impormasyon sa credit card kaangay sang 16-digit-number, holder’s name, expiry date kag security code sang linibo niya ka mga customer sa sulod lang sang pila ka segundo.
Apang, natukiban sang otoridad ang iya modus kag gin- aresto si Taniguchi bangud sa mga ilegal niya nga transakyon gamit ang mga credit cards sang iya nga mga costumers nga gin- gamit niya pangbayad sa iya mga ginpangbakal online.
Nakuha kay Taniguchi ang isa ka notebook nga may yara sang linibo ka mga ngalan kag credit card numbers sang iya mga costumers nga nakuha niya paagi sa iya matalom nga memorya.
Nobya, ginamultahan ang iya nobyo kun maagahan ini pauli halin sa ilimnan
ILOILO CITY- Ano ang ginahimo mo kun kaagahon na nagapauli ang imo bana ukon nobyo?
Sa Estados Unidos, ginadayaw ang isa ka babaye bangud sa pinasahi sini nga pamaagi agud matapna ang bisyo sang iya nga nobyo nga nagakaagahan sa ilimnan.
Ini amo si Steff nga napinsaran ang pag- set sang curfew sa iya nga nobyo nga kun ini ang maglampas sa las 3:00 sang aga nga indi pa makapuli, magabayad ini sang $50 ukon kapin P3,000.
Bangud sa iya genius move, ginhatagan ini sang “Best Girlfriend Award” bangud sa makalilingaw kag pinasahi nga pinaagi agud matapna ang bisyo sang iya nga nobyo.
Lalaki sa China, sekreto nga ginpakaslan ang tatlo ka mga babaye kag ginpaistar pa malapit sa isa kag isa
ILOILO CITY- Kun ikaw ang nagapalangga, dapat isa lang ang imo palanggaon.
Apang may iban gid ya nga indi makontento sa isa lang.
Kaangay sang lalaki sa China nga ginpakaslan sini sang sekreto ang tatlo tanan ka mga babayi kag ginpatiner sa lugar nga isa lang ka kilometro ang distansya sa isa kag isa para sa iya kaugalingon nga interes.
Ang 41- anyos nga lalaki nga ginkilala kay Zhang ang nagpangatubang sang duwa ka tuig nga pagkabilanggo bangud sa kaso nga polygamy matapos legal sini nga ginpakaslan ang tatlo ka mga babayi sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig.
Nagatrabaho siya bilang isa ka real estate agent rason nga indi problema sa iya ang magsagod sang tatlo ka pamilya.
Gin-ako ni Zhang nga ang magkadto sa tatlo ka balay 10 ka beses sa isa ka semana ang makapoy para sa iya.
Ginpakaslan sini ang una niya nga asawa nga si Ren sadtong 2015, ang ikaduwa nga asawa nga si Chen sang 2018 kag ang ikatatlo nga asawa nga si Wang sadtong tuig 2019.
May yara naman siya sang tag-isa ka anak sa tatlo ka mga babayi.
Babaye sa Russia, ginpakaslan paagi sa iya nadula nga passport?
ILOILO CITY- Ka- Bombo, ano ayhan ang mangin reaksyon mo kun isa ka adlaw, natukiban mo nga kasal ikaw sa tawo nga wala mo man lang nakilala sa bilog mo nga kabuhi?
Ini ang natabo sa 24-anyos nga babaye sa Russia nga naeksperyensiyahan ang pinakamakakilibot nga hitabo sa iya kabuhi matapos natukiban nga kasado siya sa iya ka Egyptian citizen humalin pa sang 2022, isa ka tuig matapos nadula ang iya nga passport.
Petersburg ang nagsiling nga nadula ang iya passport sang 2021, apang apisar gindeklarar niya nga nadula ini, wala na siya nagtuyo pa nga magkuha sang bag-o nga passport..
Wala man ini nagdumdom nga ang nadula niya nga passport ang panginpuslan sang iban nga tawo.
Kag sang damlag lang, samtang nagaproseso ini sang birth certificate para sa iya bata, nakibot siya nga gin-request nga dapat ara man ang presensya sang iya bana nga isa ka Egyptian nga amo si Mustafa.
Wala gid niya makilala ini si Mustafa gani imposible man nga nakasal sila apang sa Russian registry, ginlista si Mustafa nga bana niya.
Indi pa maathag kun si Mustafa ang nakakita sang nadula nga passport ukon kun ginbakal niya ini sa black market, apang naggwa nga gin-gamit sang Egyptian national ang dokumento sa pag- apply para sa temporary residence permit sa Russia, kag ginsiling nga bana siya sang babaye.
Ang dokumento nagaunod sang sulat tuhoy sa ila kasal nga nasaad nga natabo sang Enero 2022.
Matapos nabatian naman ang testimonya sang babaye kag nakumpirma nga gindeklarar niya ang iya passport nga nadula kag indi niya kilala ang amo nga Egyptian husband, gin-annul man sang Russian court ang amo nga kasal.annulled the marriage.
Nagapabilin naman nga palaligban kun paano nakaparehistro sang kasal ang lalaki sa isa ka Russian national gamit lamang ang passport.
Lalaki, gintanyag ang balay sa sin-o man nga makakita sang iya missing dog
ILOILO CITY- Ano mo bala ka palangga ang imo nga ido?
Ano ayhan ang imo mangin pamaagi nga pangitaon ang imo ido kun madula ini?
Sa Tucson, Arizona, isa ka lalaki ang desperado na nga makit-an ang iya ido nga chihuahua.
Si Eddie Collins nga amo ang tag-iya sang ido nga si Jenny, ang nagapangtapik sang mga posters sa mga pader sa Tucson kag nagabisita sa mga dog shelters agud nga makit-an ang iya pinalangga nga ido.
Apang bangud nga wala gid makit-an ni Eddie ang iya ido, na desisyonan niya nga maghatag sang padya sa makabalik sini.
Iya gin-anunsyar nga magahatag siya sang isa ka bedroom apartment kag duta kun makit-an na ang iya ido nga si Jenny.
Nagalaum si Eddie nga mabalik na sa iya nga luyo ang pinalangga niya nga ido.
Nagapangabay man siya sa mga tawo sa lugar nga buligan siya sa pagpangita kay Jenny.
Ginakabig na ni Eddie nga myembro na sang pamilya ang iya ido gani amo na lang ang iya pagkabalaka kun sa diin na ini.
Wala sang update kun nabalik gid man sa iya ang iya ido.
Lalaki, gin-ban sa eat-all-you-can restaurant bangud halos masarangan niya ubuson ang pagkaon
ILOILO CITY- Mahilig ka bala magkaon sang madamo?
Luyag mo bala masami nga magkaon sa mga eat-all-you-can nga kalan-an?
Sa Germany, gin-ban ang isa ka triathlete nga si Jaroslav Bobrowski sa isa ka eat-all-you-can sushi restaurant bangud sa pagkaon sang tuman ka damo sa diin ini ang ginakonsidera sang kalan-an nga indi normal kag indi maayo sa negosyo.
Nag-ugat ang pag-ban kay Bobrowski sa restaurant, sang nadesisyonan niya kaupod ang nobya sini nga mag-avail sang eat-all-you-can sa diin nagbayad siya sang 15.90 euros ukon P924 kada isa sa ila.
Nagtinir si Bobrowski sa restaurant sang isa ka oras kag tunga sa diin ginabanta 100 ka beses siya nga nagkuha sang sushi.
Ginkakibot na lamang sang triathlete nga ginpalapitan siya sang waiter kag ginhambalan nga indi na siya mahimo pa nga makabalik sa restaurant.
Paathag sang tag-iya sang restaurant, indi man niya kuntani luyag nga dumilian si Bobrowski apang kinahanglan niya ini himuon bangud mahimo nga wala na sang may mabilin pa nga sushi sa iban nga guest.
ILOILO CITY- Nagakabalaka ka bala sa imo abyan nga may indi maayo nga baho?
Sa masami, sa kada eleksyon, indi gid mag-zero ang boto sang pulitiko bangud pat-od nga botohon sini ang iya kaugalingon magluwas pa abi sa bulig sang iya pamilya.
Amo gani nga maragtas gid ang nahimo sang isa ka Canadian sang damlag lang bangud sa labing-una nga tion sa contested federal election sa ila pungsod, may kandidato nga wala gid sang nakuha nga bisan isa ka boto.
Ini amo si Félix-Antoine Hamel, 45, nga nagbutang sang pangalan sa balota sa Toronto-St.
Isa siya ka musician kag nagdesisyon nga magpadalagan bilang kabahin sang protesta batok sa first-past-the-post election system sa pungsod.
Kabahin si Hamel sang election reform advocacy group nga Longest Ballot Committee kag isa sa 84 nga nangisog nga ilista ang pangalan sa balota.
Nahibaluan nga nga ang kaangay niya nga independent candidates ang ginalauman nga makakuha sang isa ukon duha ka boto bangud pwede nila botohon ang ila kaugalingon.
Apang natabuan nga lain man nga distrito ang ginapulian ni Hamel kag lain man nga distrito ang iya nga ginpadalaganan.
Bangud sini, sang nakit-an sini ang resulta, gintawag niya ang kaugalingon nga siya ang matuod nga “unity candidate.” Ina bangud, suno sa iya, tanan nga tawo ang nag-unite kag nagsugtanay nga indi siya pagbotohon.
Apisar sang resulta, nalipay si Hamel bangud sa kadamo sang tawo sa Canada, talagsa lang suno sa iya nga makahimo ang history ang ordinaryo nga tawo kaangay niya.
Professor, gintapungol sang iya estudyante kadungan sang graduation ceremony
Isa ang graduation day sa mga adlaw nga aton gid ginahandaan bangud diri naton mapasalamatan ang mga tawo nga nangin parte sang aton kadalag-an kag diri man naton ulihi makit-an ang pila sa aton mga abyan kag classmates.
Talagsa lang sa malaka nga may gamo nga nagakatabo diri, gani matandaan gid kun may ginhimo nga eskandalo kaangay sining isa ka estudyante sa China.
Natabo ini sa graduation rites sa Fudan University sa Zhengda Stadium, Shanghai kun sa diin masobra 10,000 ka mga estudyante ang nagtapos sa ila pag-eskwela.
Sang nakaabot na sa degree conferment segment, naglinya ang mga propesor sa entablado suksok ang ila pula nga toga kag diri na kuntani nga parte nga isa-isa mag-atubang ang mga estudyante sa propesor para masaylo ang ila tassels.
Madamo gid ang nakibot sang natumba ang isa ka professor bangud nga gintapungol ini sang estudyante sa iya atubangan.
Dali-dali man nga nagpanaog sa stage ang estudyante samtang nabuka naman ang antipara sang teacher kag gindapatan gid sang pagbulong bangud sa minor injuries.
Daku ang pagpati nga isa ka mistaken identity ang natabo sa amo nga seremonya kag ang dean gid kuntani ang target sang estudyante.
Nahibaluan nga ang estudyante ang yara sa shortlist para sa Peking Univeristy Health Schience Center master’s degree program sang Abril, pero wala ginpasugtan sang unibersidad bangud ginapaidalom pa siya sa ideological and moral assessment.
Ginalantaw nga tuman ang paglain sang buot sini rason nga nasumbagan sini ang professor.
Gina-imbestigaran sang Student Affairs Office kag Law School staff sang unibersidad ang hitabo, ginahulat pa ang mangin statement sang estudyante, kag ginabantayan man kun ano nga disciplinary action ang idagdag batok sa iya.
Bana, nagsuprir sang amnesia isa ka adlaw matapos ang ila kasal sang iya asawa
ILOILO CITY- Paano kun isa ka adlaw matapos ang inyo kasal, nalimtan sang imo bana ang tanan?
Ini ang sitwasyon subong sang mag-asawa nga Jan kag Loaren Campaner sa Zamboanga del Sur.
Nagsuprir sang amnesia ang lalaki isa ka adlaw matapos sila nga ginkasal.
Suno kay Loaren, tuman ka budlay para sa iya nga batunon ang natabo ilabi na nga bag-o pa lang sila nagsugod bilang mag-asawa.
Sang ginpalantaw sa doctor, ginsiling nga may yara sang traumatic brain injury si Jan nga nagdulot sang retrograde amnesia gani indi na niya madumduman ang mga nakaligad.
Ginpahayag naman ni Loaren nga pagkatapos sang ila nga kasal, nagbaisay ang pamilya nila kag wala ini nagustuhan ni Jan gani ginsakit niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Sa subong, ginatinguhaan ni Loaren nga madumduman ni Jan ang iya nakaligad paagi sa pagpalantaw niya sang ila mga letrato sang sila ang ginkasal.
Ang masakit pa, indi man madumduman ni Jan nga may duha sila ka kabataan.
Sa subong, nagapangamuyo si Loaren nga mabalik na sa normal ang memorya sang iya nga bana.
Soltero sa India, lalaki sang natulugan, babaye na sa iya pagbugtaw?
ILOILO CITY- Ka-Bombo, paano kun isa ka adlaw, pagbugtaw mo gin-islan na ang imo kinatawo nga wala sang imo permiso?
Ini ang natabo sa isa ka lalaki sa India nga ginpaidalom sa sex change nga wala siya nakahibalo.
Ang biktima amo si Mujahid, 20-anyos nga lalaki halin sa Sanjak Village sa Uttar Pradesh.
Suno kay Mujahid, isa ka adlaw gindala siya ni Omprakash sa Begrajpur Medical College sa Mansoorpur matapos siya ginpapati nga may yara siya sang seryoso nga sakit kag kinahanglan siya maoperahan.
Pag-abot sa operating room, didto na ini gintublukan sang anesthesia kag samtang wala ini sang pangalibutan, didto na ini ginpaidalom sa sex change.
Sa iya pagbugtaw, nakibot nalang ini nga nagasakit ang iya kinatawo kag sang iya ginlantaw, indi na ini amo, kinatawo na sang babaye ang ara sa iya lawas.
Ang istorya gali amo nga madugay na nga luyag maangkon ni Omprakash ang duta sang mga ginikanan ni Mujahid apang mahimo niya lamang ini kun may mapakaslan siya nga bata sang mag-asawa rason nga ginplanuhan niya ini kag nakadesisyon sang amo nga butang sa bulig sang mga doktor nga iya nangin kahimbon.
Ginpilit man ni Omprakash si Mujahid nga magpakasal sa iya kag kun nagpamahog nga patyon niya ang pamilya sini kun mamalibad siya nga magpakasal.
Sa subong, nagapapadayon ang imbestigasyon kag gin-aresto naman si Omprakash.
Ginaimbestigaran man ang mga hospital staff bangud sa ila involvement.
Nobya, ginkasuhan ang iya nobyo bangud wala siya gindul-ong sa airport
Masami nga ang ginahunong sa karsel ukon ang ginadagdagan sang multa amo ang mga tawo nga nagapangawat, naga-maoy, nagatuga sang iban pa nga eskandalo, kag iban pa nga mga krimen.
Apang nakasugata ka na bala sang tawo nga nakasuhan bangud wala niya nadul-ong ang iya nobya?
Kagamay nga bagay kun pamatian apang amo ina ang rason kun nga nagtapos ang masobra anum ka tuig nga relasyon sang magkahagugma didto sa New Zealand kag nakalab-ot pa sa korte ang ila away.
Ini nga reklamo ang napasaka sa Disputes Tribunal ukon mas kilala nga smaller claims court ukon less formal ipaanggid sa korte bangud diri ginabaton ang indi man gid daku nga mga complaints para madasig maresolba.
Wala diri sang abogado kag huwes, apang may ginatawag nga tribunal referee para magpatunga sa duha ka kampo.
Ang reklamo nga ini nag-ugat sang wala gintuman sang lalaki ang iya pasalig nga idul-ong ang iya nobya sa airport rason nga nabayaan ini sang eroplano.
Nagawangal ang girlfriend bangud concert ang iya kadtuan kaupod ang iya mga abyan.
Ginsiling sini nga ginlapas sang iya nobyo ang ila nga verbal contract”.
Ini bangud suno sa iya, sang ginmunuhan niya ini sa iya plano, nagtango man, buot silingon nagpasugot ini nga siya ang mabantay sang balay kag duha ka ido samtang wala ang nobya.
Bangud na-miss sang babaye ang iya flight, nagdugang ini sang bayad para sa lain naman nga flight pagkaaga.
Gindala man sini pati ang iya mga ido para indi na ini magsalig sa iya nobyo, kag nagbayad pa ini sang extra sa shuttle service sa airport.
Pati ang bakasyon nila sang Disyembre 2023, nadumduman pa sang babaye kag ginbutang man sa legal document nga siya man ang nagbayad sa pamasahe sa ferry gani nagapanukot man siya sang bayad sang iya boyfriend.
Sang ulihi, ginbasura man sang tribunal ang kaso bangud suno diri, agud mapanabat ang isa ka tawo, dapat maplastar nga may “intention to create a legally binding relationship.”
Suno pa sa tribunal referee nga si Krysia Cowie, ang nature sang promisa nga ginahimo ang normal lamang nga give and take sa isa ka intimate relationship.
26-anyos nga lalaki, may P10-K cash award bilang pinakatigulang nga ginpaltak sa Lapu-Lapu City
Indi gid ma-negar nga may mga tawo nga nahadlok magpa-paltak bisan may edad na.
Amo man ini ang problema nga nakit-an sa probinsya sang Cebu sa Central Visayas rason nga naglunsar ang city government sang Lapu-Lapu sang “Operasyon Libreng Tuli” (Operation Free Circumcision).
Magluwas diri, may yara man sang gintanyag ang local government nga cash nga P10,000 sa pinaka-tigulang nga indibidwal nga magpapaltak sang Hunyo 21.
Nagpalapit ini sa staff kag nag-intra sa operasyon nga ginsaksihan mismo ni Lapu-Lapu Mayor Junard “Ahong” Chan.
Gintuman man sang alkalde ang promisa sini nga ihatag kay Alfredo ang cash.
Nagdangat naman sa 1,350 individuals ang nag-avail sang free circumcision nga ginpangunahan sang volunteer schools kag sang Department of Health-Central Visayas.
Madamo naman ang nagdayaw kag nagtawag kay Alfredo nga swerte bangud magluwas sa cash, ang nurse nga nag-assist sa operasyon amo si Binibining Lapu-Lapu 2023 Cheron Kisses Co.
May libre naman nga ice cream kag burgers nga ginhatag sa iban pa nga nagpapaltak kadungan sang amo nga programa sa Hoops Dome sa Barangay Gun-ob, Lapu-Lapu.
Ini ang may tema nga “Transforming lives, one cut at a time” nga gin-umpisahan sang city governmentsang Hunyo 14 kag may natalana nga isa pa ka Operation Tuli sa Hunyo 28 sa siyam ka areas sa amo nga syudad.
Masobra P1-M nga nakit-an sa NAIA Terminal 3, ginbalik sang cleaner
Nagabubo ang pagdayaw sa isa ka manugpaninlo sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport Terminal 3 (NAIA-3) matapos wala ini nagduha-duha nga magpanugid sa otoridad sang nakit-an sini ang medyas nga may unod nga $18,800 ukon P1.1-million.
Ang honest cleaner ang ginkilala nga si Rosalinda Celero, 41.
Nakit-an sini ang medyas sa idalom sang gang chair sa south wing sang departure area sang NAIA-3 kasunod sang final security checkpoint.
Gilayon sini nga gindala ang iya nakit-an sa lost and found section sang terminal.
Gina-check na subong sang security personnel sang Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA) ang closed-circuit television footage agud matumod kun sin-o ang tag-iya sang kuwarta kag kun paano natigayon nga mapalusot ini nga cash sa security checks.
Ginalantaw sang MIAA nga gin-smuggle sang tag-iya ang cash bangud sandig sa pagsulundan, tubtub lamang sa $10,000 ang ginatugutan sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas nga dal-on sang pasahero.
Ginpanginbulahan naman ni MIAA general manager Eric Ines si Celero bangud nangin honest ini apisar daku nga kantidad ang iya nakit-an.
Kilalahon si Celero kadungan sang July flag-raising ceremony sang MIAA kun sa diin natalana ini nga hatagan sang certificate of commendation.#
Twin sisters nga nagpakasal sa twin brothers, naga-istar sa isa lang ka balay
Amo gid ini ang sitwasyon sa isa ka balay kun sa diin naga-istar ang identical twin sisters nga nakapamana man sang identical twin brothers.
Ang kapid nga babaye amo sanday Brittany kag Briana Deane.
Humalin sang bata pa, nakaandan na nila nga pareho sila sa tanan nga bagay amo man sa ila hilig.
2017 sang nagkadto sila sa Twins Day Festival sa Twinsburg, Ohio kun sa diin may biological twins, triples, quads, kag madamo pa.
Didto nila nakilala ang ila makabig soulmates nga sanday Josh kag Jeremy Salyers nga pareho sa ila, kapid man.
Wala na ginpadugay bangud makaligad ang isa ka tuig, ginkasal si Briana kay Jeremy kag si Brittany kay Josh.
Ang amazing pa gid amo nga gindungan ang seremonya sa ila nga kasal.
Kag ang mas amazing amo nga nag-istar sila sa isa lang ka balay sa Bedford County, Virginia!
Sa subong, palareho na sila nga parents.
Sanday Brittany kag Josh ang may anak nga si Jett, samtang may Jax naman subong sanday Jeremy kag Briana.
Pareho nga tatlo ka tuig na subong ang edad sang mga bata.
Technically, magpakaisa sanday Jett kag Jax, apang bangud sa ila nga unique situation nga pareho nga identical twins ang ila nga mga ginikanan, ang duha ka bata ang makabig nga genetic brothers.
Ang tawag diri amo ang quaternary twins bangud ang duha ka sets sang parents ang may pareho lang nga DNA.
Samtang nagadaku ang mga bata, mas labi man sila nga naga-close kag daw kaangay nga kapid man kaangay sa ila nga parents!
Magkahagugma nga dungan nga napatay sa aksidente, ginkasal gihapon
Nakabati na kita sang mga masubo nga istorya nga napatay ang bride ukon groom, apang ginpadayon gihapon ang seremonya sang kasal bangud sa tuman nga gugma sang nabilin nga partner kag gusto sini nga mag-commit kag dayunon ang ila plano nga “forever.”
Apang nakabati ka na bala sang bersyon nga pareho gid nga napatay ang bride kag groom apang ginpadayon man ang ila kasal?
Natabo ini sa magkahagugma nga sanday Yang Jingshan, 31, kag Lee Xueying, 32 nga lunsay Malaysian nationals.
Sang Mayo 2024, dungan sila nga napatay bangud nagbaliskad ang ila salakyan samtang nagabyahe sa Perak sa northwestern part sang Malaysia.
Antes ang insidente, tatlo ka tuig na sila nga magka-relasyon.
Isa ka international referee para sa Malaysian Dragon and Lion Dance Sports Association si Yang, samtang ang girlfriend naman sini nga si Lee ang naga-trabaho sa isa ka food processing factory.
Hunyo 2 kuntani plano pa sang boyfriend nga magselebrar sang iya kaadlawan sa Thailand kun sa diin maga-propose man ini sang kasal kay Lee.
Tanan ini ang naalimunaw bangud sa trahedya nga natabo sa dalan.
Apang, sa pag-istoryahanay sang ila ginikanan, wala nakaupang mangin ang kamatayon agud nga madayon ang ila matahum nga plano.
Sang sini lang nga Hunyo 17, ginpatigayon ang isa ka “ghost marriage” sa isa ka funeral hall nga gintambungan sang ila mga pinalangga sa kabuhi.
Naghimo ang ila pamilya sang wedding photo sang duha kag ini ang ginbasbasan para sa ritual.
Ginbutang man sang ginikanan ni Yang sa obituary nga daughter-in-law nila si Lee bilang opisyal nga pagbaton sini sa ila pamilya.
Nahibaluan nga base sa daan nga tradisyon nga iya sang mga Chinese, kun ang tawo mapatay kag indi matuman ang ila nga wish, indi ini mahatagan sang kalinungan sa pihak nga kabuhi rason nga nagapakita ini sa ila buhi nga mga himata.
Ini nga pagpati ang nag-impluwensya man pati sa iban nga mga lugar lakip na sa East Asian countries kaangay sang North Korea kag Japan amo man sa kaso nanday Yang kag Lee.
Babaye nga regular nga ginasweldohan sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig apisar nga nagatanga lang ini sa iya lamesa, nagpasaka sang kaso batok sa iya kompaniya
ILOILO CITY- Halimbawa, swelduhan ka sang employer bisan wala sang may ginahatag nga trabaho sa imo,ano mabatyagan mo?
Indi bala daw ka sadya lang kay tawhay ka na, may sweldo ka pa?
Apang lain ang balatyagon diri sang isa ka babaye sa France nga ginsweldohan sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig apang wala gid ini ginhatagan sang trabaho sang iya employer.
Ang tagreklamo amo si Laurence Van Wassenhove nga ginrecruit bilang civil servant sang France Telecom sang 1993 antes gin-tak over sang company nga Orange.
Nahibaluan sang iya original employer nga may ginasuprir ini nga partial paralysis sang lawas kag may epilepsy pa ini gani ginhaagan ini sang position nga santo sa iya medical conditions.
Nagtrabaho ini bilang secretary sa HR department tubtob sang 2002 sang ginhingyo sini nga i-transfer sa lain nga lugar.
Gin-aprubahan ang iya request apang ang iya posisyon ang wala nagakabagay sa iya sitwasyon.
Iya gin-antos ini sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig bangud wala gid naghimo sang adjustments ang kompaniya kag ginahatagan lang siya sang regular nga sweldo bisan nagapungko lang siya sa bilog nga adlaw sa sulod sang malawig nga tinuig.
Bangud sini, nagfile siya sang complaint batok sa kompaniya kag sa apat sini ka managers bangud sa “moral harassment kag discrimination”.
Nagdepensa naman ang kompaniya kag ginpanginwala ang mga alegasyon sang empleyado.
Sa subong, yara sa gihapon sa korte ang kaso sang amo nga babaye.
Buwaya nga naglamon sang mga ido, gindakop sang mga tag-iya kag ginhimo nga caldo
Literal nga sabaw ang gindangatan sang isa ka buwaya matapos ini nga nagpangaon sang mga hinuptanan nga ido sa isa ka komunidad.
Natabo ini sa Australia kun sa diin naga-ugtas na ang mga residente bangud magluwas nga nagapanglamon sang ido, ini nga buwaya ang nagapamahog pa sang mga kabataan kag nagatuga sang tuman nga kahadlok.
Ginapahayag nga sang nagbinaha sa temprano nga bahin subong nga tuig, nagtakas ini nga buwaya kag nagsaylo sang ilistaran sa Baines River ukon ang suba nga malapit kaayo sa mga balay sang mga tawo sa Bulla community.
Bangud sa reklamo sang mga pumuluyo nga nagakadula ang ila mga hinuptanan, nagpatunga na ang pulis kag nagpatigayon sang konsultasyon sa mga tigulang kag traditional landowners sa Bulla.
Ini ginplanuhan nga tiruhon ini kag wala gid sang nagpamalabag bangud sang oras nga patay na ang sapat, nag-preparar pa gani sang fiesta ang mga tawo.
Gintunga-tunga ang lawas sini suno sa Northern Territory Police kag ginluto sa nagkalain-lain nga putahe.
Lakip diri amo ang crocodile tail soup, barbecue, may ara man nga ginputos sa dahon sang saging kag ginsugba.
Isa ka traditional feast ang natabo nga gin-enjoy naman sang mga tawo.
Pagkatapos sini, nag-conduct man ang Parks and Wildlife team sang “crocodile safety session” agud nga mapahibalo sa mga kabataan kun ano ang risgo kun magtinir sa mga suba ukon sa mga lugar nga posible ginatiniran man sang sini nga sapat.
Lalaki nga gintiro sang iya ka-bais, nakaluwas bangud sa iya suksok nga kulintas
Madamo ang halos indi makapati sang istorya sang isa ka lalaki nga sang damlag lang, nakaluwas sa kamatayon sang gintiro ini sang isa man ka lalaki nga iya naka-bais.
Natabo ini sa Colorado sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika kag ginkumpirma mismo sang Commerce City Police Department.
Sa post sang police station, ginpahayag nga nangin mainit ang argumento sa tunga sang duha ka mga lalaki rason nga naimpito ang isa kag gintiro ang biktima sa liog sini.
Apang sang amo nga tion, nag-igu ang bala sang .22 caliber sa kulintas mismo nga ginasuksok sang biktima, kag halos indi mapatihan nga amo ini ang rason kun ngaa wala nagdiretso ang bala sa liog mismo sang lalaki.
Ginpakita sang pulis ang silver chain nga may dugo pa, ginapahayag nga ten millimeters lang ang kalaparon, kag amo ini suno sa otoridad ang isahanon ga rason nga buhi pa ang biktima.
Suno sa otoridad, puncture wound lamang ang naangkon sang lalaki apang ginapatihan nga kun wala ang metal necklace, pat-od nga patal gid ang iya pilas.
Just incredible,” dugang sa post sang pulis nga nag-viral.
Arestado naman ang suspek kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga homicide.
Madamo naman ang nagkomento nga nagapati sila nga magluwas sa silver necklace, isa ka divine intervention ang natabo kag basi suno sa ila, indi pa gid man tyempo sang lalaki nga madula diri sa kalibutan.
Pinoy conjoined twins, naseparar na paagi sa surgical operation sa Saudi Arabia
Nahatagan sang bag-o nga kabuhi ang conjoined twins halin sa Panabo, Davao del Norte matapos nga napaidalom sa madinalag-on nga operasyon sa bulig sang Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Ini nga kapid amo sanday Akhizah kag Ayeesha nga naga-edad pa lamang sang isa ka tuig.
Ang Saudi amo ang nag-asikaso para sa surgery, treatment period, kag pati na sa gasto sang pamilya sang kapid samtang yara sila sa luwas sang pungsod.
Sila man ang ikaduha nga set sang Filipino twins nga nahatagan sang Kingdom sang amo nga sahi sang surgical separation.
Alqahtani, ini nga humanitarian work ang isa sa nalab-ot sang Kingdom sa patag sang pag-separar sang conjoined twins kag paghatag sang outstanding medical care kun sa diin makabig na nga pioneer ang Saudi.
Lima tubtub pito ka oras nga surgical procedure ang gin-agyan sang kapid kun sa diin 23 ka consultant doctors, specialists, nursing kag technical staff ang nagbuligay.
Sa subong, yara pa sa Riyadh ang kapid kag naga-recover pa lamang.
Tuman naman ang pasalamat sang iloy nga nakit-an nga naseparar na ang lawas sang iya mga bata, naga-practice na ang mga ini sa paglakat, kag natuman na ang handum sang pamilya nga makapangabuhi sang normal.
Ang Kingdom of Saudi Arabia nga ginakabig pioneer sa field sang pagseparar sang conjoined twins ang naka-perform na sang masobra 130 ka kaangay nga operasyon sa iban nga nationalities.
Pinakataas nga ATM, nahamtang sa Pakistan
ILOILO CITY- Pinakataas nga Automated Teller Machine sa kalibutan sa diin bala makit-an?
Atensyon sa mga mahilig magsaka sa bukid ukon mountaineers, sa madugay na ninyo nga pagsaka, may bes bala nga nakakita kamo sang automated teller machine sa kabukiran?
Siguro wala gid kay kun huna-hunaon, imposible man nga may magbutang sang automated teller machine sa putok-putukan sang bukid.
Pero dali lang, kay didto sa kabukiran nga napatung-an sang China kag Pakistan, may yara sang isa ka Automated Teller Machine nga nakabutang sa kataason nga 4,693 meters nga ginakabig highest-altitude nga machine sang cash.
Naglawig sang apat ka bulan ang pag-install sini.
Tuman man ka budlay ang pag-provide sang maintenance kag pag- refill sang cash sa machine sa regular basis bangud ang pinakamalapit nga bangko ang may kalayuon nga 82 kilometros.
Kalabanan nga kliyente diri amo ang border guards nga nagakuha sang ila monthly salaries gikan diri, amo man ang pila ka pumuluyo sa lugar kag ang mga tawo nga nagatabok sa border.
Ginabanta man nga 4 to 5 million rupees ukon $18,350 – $23,000 ukon P1M tubtob P1.5M ang gina-withdraw sa amo nga machine kada duha ka semana.
Bride kag groom nga wala nakasal sang maayo bangud ‘late’, may Wedding Part 2!
Mahimo nga isa ka man sa naluoy sa naabtan sang isa ka bride sa Amlan, Negros Oriental nga wala gid nahatagan sang “moment” sa iya kaugalingon nga kasal bangud sa ginpahayag pagsinuplado sang pari nga nag-officiate sa amo nga seremonya.
Madamo gid ang nadismaya sang nalantaw ang video nga samtang nagamartsa pa lang ang bride padulong sa altar, nagsugod na sa misa ang pari rason nga nagadali-dali man ang bride sa paglakat bisan mabudlay para sa iya bangud sa trahe.
Ang ginkasal amo sanday Janine Sagario kag Jove Sagario.
Una na nagpaathag ang bride nga naka-schedule ang ila kasal sang Hunyo 8, las-otso sa aga, apang sang Hunyo 7 sang gab-i, ginpahibalo sila sang isa sa ila sponsors nga gin-reschedule sang simbahan ang ila kasal kag sa baylo nga 8:00 am, ginhimo ini nga 9:30 am.
Sang nag-abot sila sang 9:00 pagka-aga, ginpahayag nga nangakig ang mga staff sang simbahan kag ginhambal nga late sila sa schedule nga 8:00.
Sang tion nga ginakuhaan sila sang laragway, pareho nga nagahibi ang bride kag groom sa ila inagyan.
Madamo pa gid ang nadismaya bangud nga sang nagtapos ang kasal, gilayon nga ginmandu sang pari nga pasudlon ang lungon bangud misa sa patay ang yara sa schedule.
Nalantaw man sang wedding suppliers sa Negros Oriental ang natabo kag bangud naluoy sa bride kag groom, nag-initiate ang wedding violinist nga si John Lester Barot nga magpatigayon sang wedding remake.
Natalana ang part 2 sang kasal sa Hunyo 17.
Sa subong, may yara na sang sponsors para sa host, coffee, bridal car, ice cream, photography, bridal gown, kag iban pa.
Nagapangita pa sila sang dugang nga sponsors para sa pagkaon kag iban pa para sa magkahagugma.
Nag-isyu naman sang statement ang pari nga assigned sa St.
Andrew the Apostle Parish kag nagpangayo sang pasensya sa natabo sa kasal.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ang wedding sponsor nga nag-pahibalo sa bride kag groom nga ginlain ang schedule amo gali ang nagsala sa pagpasa sang impormasyon.
Suno sa simbahan, wala sang nag-instruct halin sa parokya nga lainon ang schedule bangud may nakatalana kuntani nga Funeral Mass sa 9:30 a.m.
Ginsiling man nga may adjustments nga ginhimo sang nakit-an nga yara na ang bride sa puertahan kag ginpaathag naman sa pamilya sang napatay nga may delay sa misa bangud unahon anay ang kasal.
61-anyos nga amay kag 41-anyos nga iloy, nabugayan pa sang triplets
Apang para sa magkahagugma nga taga-Brgy.
Bega, San Carlos City, Pangasinan, ang ila pinakadaku nga blessing subong nga tuig amo ang ila triplets nga sanday Althea, Altheo, kag Athena.
Nangin daku nga iwag sa puluy-an ang pag-abot sang tatlo ka kabataan bisan nga masobra pa lang isa ka tuig nga nag-updanay ang ila Mama kag Papa.
Ang parents amo sanday Romulo Perez, 61 kag Cecilia Macam, 41.
Pareho na sila nga balo sang nagkilalahay sila kag nahulog ang buot sa isa kag isa.
Si Romulo ang may pito na ka anak sa iya una nga asawa samtang may anum naman ka kabataan si Cecilia sa iya una nga bana.
Sa pag-abot nanday Althea, Altheo, kag Athena sa ila kabuhi, 16 na subong ang ila mga anak kun ila nga tingubon.
Isa sa mga pagpanghangkat para sa duha amo nga kulang ang ila income para sa triplets bangud pareho lamang sila nga nagahimo sang basket nga human sa kawayan.
Ang ila wish amo nga mapadaku ang triplets nga healthy, mabuot, kag labaw sa tanan, may kahadlok kag pagpalangga sa Ginuo.
Busay nga ginapabugal sang China nga pinakamataas sa Asya, natukiban nga nagagamit lang sang tubo para tayuyon ang tubod sang tubig
Kun amo sini nga mainit gihapon ang tyempo, ang busay amo gid ang isa sa pinakamanami nga destinasyon sang mga tawo.
Sa China, ang ila ginapabugal amo ang masobra 1,000 ka tapak ang kataason nga Yuntai Mountain Waterfall nga amo ang pinakamataas nga tourism site sa amo nga pungsod kag ila pa gid gina-claim nga amo ang pinakamataas nga busay sa Asya.
Apang nabutang ini subong sa sentro sang kontrobersiya matapos nadiskubrehan sang isa ka local mountaineer nga indi natural kundi artificial gid lamang ang pagpatubod sang tubig.
Gin-post mismo sang hiker ang nadiskubrehan sini nga tubo nga ginbutang sa ibabaw sang busay agud nga mapatubod ang masulog nga tubig.
Bangud ginpyestahan na sang mga turista ang video nga gin-post sang hiker, nagpaathag ang operators sang Yuntai tourism park nga naghimo gid man sila sang gamay nga enhancement sang dry season.
Suno sa operators, para man ini sa interes sang mga turista bangud gusto nila nga indi man mangluya ang mga bisita kun makit-an nila nga gamay na lang ang tubig sa busay.
Ini nga busay ang nahamtang sa Henan province kag sa sulod sang Yuntai Mountain Geopark nga isa ka UNESCO Global Geopark.
Nagpaathag man ang park officials nga spring water man ang ila gingamit kag indi ini makahalit sa natural landscape.
Nahibaluan nga minilyon ka mga turista ang nagakadto diri kada tuig agud nga bisitahon man ang geological formations nga ginapahayag nga naporma sang bilyon ka tuig na ang nakaligad.
Indi ini ang una nga bes nga may artificial measures nga ginhimo agud nga mapanami ang popular nga mga busay sang China sa mata sang publiko.
Ang isa pa amo ang Huangguoshu Waterfall, isa ka sikat nga tourist destination sa southwestern Guizhou province, nga ginabuligan man sang water diversion project halin sa kaiping nga dam halin sang 2006 agud nga mapanami ang ilig sang tubig sa tion sang tag-ilinit.
6-anyos nga bata nga babaye, isahanon lamang nga first-grader sa isa ka eskwelahan sa Japan
Isa sa pinaka-memorable nga mga tinion sang kita yara sa elementarya amo ang paghampang kaupod sa aton damo-damo nga classmates.
Na-imagine mo bala ang imo kaugalingon kun halimbawa, absent ang imo nga mga friends kag playmates kag ikaw lang isa ang nag-eskwela?
Sa isa ka distrito sa Japan, Grade 1 pa lang kag anum ka tuig ang edad sang bata nga si Nozomi Fujioka apang naagaw na sini ang atensyon sang bilog nga faculty sa eskwelahan!
Ini bangud isahanon lang ini nga estudyante nga nag-enrol sa Grade I sa Yanagidani Elementary School sa ila nga lugar.
Bisan isahanon lang si Nozomi, malipayon siya nga gin-abi-abi sang eskwelahan paagi sa isa ka entrance ceremony nga isa ka tradisyon sa Japanese schools.
Sang 2021 tubtub sang 2023, wala gid sang bisan isa nga nag-enroll sa Grade 1 amo gani nga ginsirado na lang ang eskwelahan sang nagligad nga tuig bangud wala man sang enrollees.
Ina bangud ang Yanagidani district sa banwa sang Kumakogencho ang may yara lamang sang 540 populasyon, kag sa sini nga mga tawo, gamay lang gid ang mga bata.
Isa sa pinakamalipayon sa pag-eskwela ni Nozomi amo ang iya amay nga si Tsuyoshi nga ginbata kag nagdaku gid sa Yanagidani, lugar nga ginbayaan na sang iban bangud nagakadto ang iban nga mga residente sa mas dalagku nga syudad para sa mas daku nga academic kag professional opportunities.
Sa bilog nga eskwelahan, apat sanday Nozomi kag siya ang agot apang wala ini nahadlok bangud friendly man ang iban nga kabataan nga yara sa mas mataas nga grade level.
Isa man sa naplanuhan sang eskwelahan amo nga tingubon ang mga bata sa tion sang Physical Education ukon PE para mas mangin masadya kag makapartisipar ang mga ini sa group games.
Longest football match, naglawig sang 26 ka oras
Ma-imagine mo bala ang imo kaugalingon nga nagalantaw sang isa ka hampang nga nagalawig sang masobra isa ka adlaw?
Pat-od nga nagasalakit na ang imo likod kag matup-ay na ikaw sa katuyo.
Apang ano pa gid ayhan kun ikaw mismo ang nagahampang?
Sa isa ka football field sa Luzhniki Olympic Sports Complex sa Moscow sa Russia, ginpatigayon sang damlag lang ang ginakabig pinakalawig nga football game!
Indi ini basta-basta bangud 26 ka oras ang ginlawig antes ini matapos!
Agud iselebrar ang All-Russian Football Day sang nagligad nga weekend, duha ka teams nga may tag-pito ka players ang nagtipon sa amo nga venue agud gub-on ang record sang longest football match sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Nagsugod ang game sang Sabado sang udto kag nagtapos sang alas dos na sang hapon sang Domingo.
Ang nauna nga record ang na-set sang 2014 sang naghampang ang duha ka teams sang dire-diretso sa sulod sang 24 hours.
Sa sini naman nga tion, ginlutos sang Red Team ang White Team sa skor nga 416 goals to 409.
Wala man ini sang tyansa nga ma-validate sang Guinness Records apang sigurado nga magamarka ini sa Russian Book of Records.
Lalaki sa India,naghimo sang world record sa pinakamadasig nga oras nga mag- type sang alphabet gamit ang iya ilong
ILOILO CITY- Ano ang sarang mahimo sang imo ilong magluwas nga ginagamit mo ini sa pagginhawa?
Indi na magpalibog ah kay istoryahan ta na lang ka?
May yara sang isa ka lalaki sa India nga sang damlag lang nagguba sang iya kaugalingon nga Guinness World Record paagi sa pag-type sang tanan nga letra sa alphabet sa sulod sang 25.66 seconds gamit lang ang keyboard kag ang iya ilong.
Ini amo si Vinod Kumar Chaudhary, 44, nga una nag-set sang Guinness World Record sa pinakamadasig nga oras nga mag- type sang alphabet gamit ang ilong sang 2023, sang nahimo niya ini sa sulod sang 27.8 seconds, kag na-break niya ini liwat sang amo man nga tuig sa oras nga 26.73 seconds.
Ang rules sa record ang nag-require kay Chaudhary nga mag-type sang 26 letters sang Roman alphabet sa standard nga QWERTY keyboard nga may space sa tunga sang kada letra.
Suno kay Chaudhary, bangud nga ang iya propesyon ang naga-involve sang typing, nadumduman niya nga maghimo sang record kun sa diin yara sa gihapon ang iya passion kag ang iya trabaho.
93-anyos nga media tycoon, nagpakasal sa ika-lima na nga tion
Madamo ang nagabilib sa isa ka 93-anyos nga media mogul sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika bangud apisar sa iya nga edad, nagpakasal pa ini sa ika-lima na nga tion.
Ini amo si Rupert Murdoch, isa ka Australian billionaire, nga kilala nga may net worth nga $9.77 billion ukon P573-billion.
Ang ginpakaslan sini amo ang iya nobya nga Elena Zhukova, 67, isa ka retired molecular biologist.Ginpatigayon ang ila nga kasal sa Bel-Air, California.
Ang mas interesente pa amo nga nagkilalahay gali sila nga duha kadungan sang kasal ni Rupert sa iya ikatatlo nga asawa, ang Chinese entrepreneur nga si Wendi Deng sang 1999.
Matunog ang pangalan ni Murdoch nga nagapanguna sa media empire sa Estados Unidos sa sulod sang pito ka dekada.
Siya ang chairman emeritus sang News Corporation nga nagapanag-iya sang Fox News, Wall Street Journal, Sun kag Times.
Sang nagligad nga tuig sang nagpanaog siya bilang chairman sa Fox kag News Corp kun sa diin ang iya anak nga si Lachlan ang na-designar nga magpamuno sa duha ka mga kumpaniya.
Ang media companies nga iya gindumala ang may masangkad nga nalab-utan kaangay sa outlets, satellites, Hollywood studios, libro, newspapers kag TV stations sa tatlo ka kontinente.
Antes ang iya pagpakasal subong nga tuig, nangin asawa man niya ang anay supermodel nga si Jerry Hall apang nagtapos sa divorce sang 2022.
May mga “ sabaw moments ” gid kita nga kun kaisa kaladlawan, pero kun kaisa, budlay gid ya bawion!
Kaangay sining isa ka lalaki sa Michigan, USA nga si Corey Harris.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, schedule sini sa hearing sa korte apang wala siya pisikal nga nagtambong kundi nag-connect lamang paagi sa Zoom call.
Ang problema ugaling, sang amo nga tion, ang hearing ang naangot sa suspendido nga driver’s license ni Harris, apang timing man nga sang naga-tambong siya via Zoom, nagamaneho siya sang iya salakyan.
Gilayon nga nabisto ni Judge Cedric Simpson ang akusado nga yara sa sulod sang iya salakyan kag iya pa ginpamangkot kun naga-drive ini.
Napilitan si Harris nga papunduhon ang iya salakyan kag ginrason sini nga pakadto siya sa iya nga doctor gani nga nagamaneho siya.
Daw indi pa makapati ang judge gani namangkot pa ini sa isa ka partisipante sa hearing kun husto bala ang kaso nga ila ginatutukan nga amo ang parte sa kaso ni Harris nga may suspendido nga lisensya.
Nahibaluan nga antes sini, temporaryo nga nahilway si Harris bangud sa piyansa kag naga-apelar pa kuntani ang abogado nga ipaiway pa kuntani sang apat ka semana ang hearing sa iya kaso.
Apang bangud nga nabisto siya sang judge nga naga-drive samtang naga-attend sang hearing, ginkanselar ang iya pyansa kag ginsugo ini nga magsungka sa otoridad para ma-detain.
Sang nabatian ni Harris ang desisyon sang judge, napa- “Oh my God” na lang siya sa iya nahimo nga kapalpakan.
High school valedictorian, nag-deliver sang iya speech pila ka oras matapos ginlubong ang iya amay
Ang graduation amo ang isa sa pinakamalipayon nga adlaw sa kabuhi sang estudyante.
Apang tuhay nga adlaw ini para sa isa ka high school valedictorian sa Farmers Branch, Texas bangud sa amo man nga petsa, ginlubong ang iya amay.
Apisar mahangpan man kuntani sang tanan kun indi na siya magtambong sa seremonya kag indi na maghatag sang speech, ginpadayon sini ang pag-deliver sang iya nga address nga amo ang rason kun ngaa emosyonal ang halos tanan.
Ini amo ang 18-anyos nga si Alem Hadzic naga-eskwela sa Dallas College Brookhaven Campus sa Texas.
Sang Mayo 15, napatay ang iya amay nga si Miralem bangud sa binulan nga pagpakigbato sa balatian nga pancreatic cancer.
Sang aga, nagbulig pa ini sa paghakwat sa lungon sang iya amay, ginlubong ini sa iya katapusan nga palahuwayan, kag sunod siya nga nagsuksok sang toga kag nagkadto sa iya graduation.
Gin-ako sini nga nagablangko na ang iya pinsar kag nagakurog ang tiil samtang naga-speech apang ginpadayon niya ang iya inughambal sang nakit-an sini nga nagahibi man ang audience.
Ginsugid sini sa iya speech nga Enero pa sang na-diagnose nga may cancer ang iya amay kag wala sila sang may ginsugidan.
Apisar nabudlayan siya mag-selebrar, ginpili sini nga magbalik sa eskwelahan bangud nakahibalo siya nga ginpangabudlayan ini sang iya amay.
Ini man ang rason suno sa iya nga magapadayon siya sa kolehiyo, manikasog, kag padayunon ang handom sang iya amay para sa iya.
Pagkatapos sang speech, ginhatagan siya sang standing ovation sang mga estudyante, ila pamilya, mga manunudlo kag administrators.
Matapos nakuha ang iya high school diploma kag ang associate of science degree halin sa Early College High School, plano sang valedictorian nga magsulod sa University of Texas sa Austin kag magsulod sa program nga chemical engineering.
Anti- sex bed, higdaan sang mga atleta sa Paris Olympics
Ang pahuway tuman gid ka importante para sa mga atleta sa bisan ano nga kompetisyon kag amo man kadako ang ginahatag nga balor sa pahuway sa palaabuton nga Olimpiada.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa nangita sang paagi ang Committee para sa Paris Olympics nga indi matemptar ang mga atleta nga maghimo sang aktibidad nga makapakapoy sa ila… halimbawa na lang ang pagpakighilawas.
Ang solusyon… amo ang anti-sex nga hiligdaan.
Ini nga anti-sex bed ang human lang sa cardboard kag ini ang gamiton sang mga atleta sa Paris Olympic Village.
Bangud nga human lamang ini sa cardboard, buot silingon, indi ini tuman ka bakod para higdaan sang duha ka tawo bangud gindesinyo ini nga mag-collapse kun mabug-at na katama ang nagahigda ukon nagatungtong sa ibabaw.
Buot silingon pa gid, indi maengganyo ang mga atleta nga magpakighilawas sa ila mga kama bangud pat-ud nga kun maguba ini, may kamala-malahan siya nga gin-ubra kag madulaan pa siya sang hiligdaan.
Mayor nga katuyuan gid sini amo nga makapahuway gid ang mga atleta.
Ini nga mga kama ang nag-abot na sa Paris.
Sa pagkamatuod, ini man ang mga kama nga gin-gamit sa 2020 Tokyo Olympics sa Japan kag ginpahayag nga ini ang nangin epektibo man.
Tubig nga halin sa imburnal, ginahimo nga beer sa Germany
ILOILO CITY- Gusto mo bala magpahubog apang ang beer nga imo inumon naghalin sa imburnal?
Didto sa Germany, ginhimo nila nga beer ang tubig nga halin mismo sa imburnal bilang pamaagi sa pag-recycle sang tubig kag batuan ang water shortage kag climate change.
Suno sa kompaniya, ang purification process ang tuman ka komplikado kag ginahimo ini sa apat ka stages.
Sa tion nga na-treat na ang tubig, ginasimpunan ini sang barley, hops kag yeast agud mangin sampat nga beer nga ila ginatawag nga “Reuse Brew”.
Suno sa mga nakatilaw sini, manamit ang beer nga halin sa tubig sa imburnal.
Gin-athag naman sang kompaniya nga wala pa ini ginabaligya sa merkado.
Kapid nga naseparar halin sang bata pa, pareho nga high school valedictorians
Madamo gid ang natandog sa istorya sang kapid nga naseparar man sa madugay nga tion, apang nagapabilin nga pareho ang pila sa ila adbokasiya kag mangin ang ila nalab-ot nga kadalag-an sa lamharon pa lamang nga edad.
Ini amo sanday Audrey Doering kag Gracie Rainsberry, pareho nga halin sa China, kag pareho nga gin-adoptar sang separado nga pamilya halin sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
15 ka bulan pa lamang ang duha sang sila ang gin-adopt sang summer sang 2007.
Sang amo nga tion, pareho man sanday Audrey kag Gracie nga nag-suprer sang balatian sa korason kag sang nag-abot sa US, pareho man sila nga nagpaidalom sa heart surgeries.
Isa ka dekada pa ang nagligad sang nangin interesado ang nag-adopt kay Audrey nga usisaon ang nagligad sang iya bata, kag didto sini nahibaluan nga may kapid gali ini nga si Gracie.
Sa dalayon sini nga pagpangita, natultulan sini nga sa US man na-adopt si Gracie apang lain-lain ang ila nga states.
Una nga nagkit-anay sanday Audrey kag Gracie sang naga-edad sila sang 10 ka tuig kag pareho sila nga emosyonal.
Halin sadto, nagakitaay na sila sang duha ka beses sa kada tuig ilabi na sa ila birthday kag byahe pakadto sa iban nga pungsod kag paagi diri, napabilin na ang ila bond apisar separado ang ila ginapaulian nga pamilya.
Subong, naga-edad na ang duha sang 18-anyos kag pareho man nga valedictorians sa ila tagsa ka high school classes.
Nagbyahe si Gracie halin sa ila balay sa Washington pakadto sa Wisconsin agud maglantaw sa graduation ni Audrey kag amo man sini ang plano ni Audrey kun si Gracie naman ang maga-graduate.
Pareho man ang duha nga suod sa American Heart Association nga “Hearts on the Hill Fly In” bilang suporta sa organisasyon nga nagabulig sa kaangay nila nga may balatian sa korason.
Daku man nga tikang ang himuon sang duha bangud updan nila ang supporters sang nonprofit agud iduso sa Kongreso sa US nga magpasar sang polisa para mabuligan ang mga estudyante, staff kag mga bisita sa mga eskwelahan nga mangin preparado pananglitan may matabo nga mga cardiac emergency.
Judge, nag-officiate sa kasal sang kriminal nga bag-o lang sini na-sentensyahan
Ang pagbayluhanay sang “I Do” amo ang isa sa pinakamatam-is nga tion para sa magkahagugma.
Ginatandaan gid ang adlaw sang kasal bangud ginaselebrar ini sa kada tuig bilang tanda sang promisa sa isa kag isa nga maga-updanay sila tubtub sa katubtuban.
Apang sa New York, isa ka pinasahi nga drama ang nasaksihan antes pa man mabatian ini nga mga tinaga.
Sang amo nga adlaw, gindala sa sulod sang korte si Anthony Santiago, 33, tumandok sang Cleveland, Ohio nga isa ka suspek sa pagpangawat nga natabo sang nagligad pa nga 2022.
Ginpahayag nga sang amo nga tuig, nagbyahe ini sa North Syracuse agud nga magbaligya lang kuntani sang salakyan.
Apang sang didto na siya, hinali lang nga nagkalam ang iya kamot sang may nakit-an siya nga mga marijuana sa sulod sang balay.
Bangud indi siya mahim-os kag indi gid makatulog sa pagpanumdom sang marijuana, ginkuntyaba sini ang iya duha ka abyan sa Cleveland agud nga balikan ang balay agud nga kawatan.
Isa ka bulan ang nakaligad, bangud nahitso na ang ila plano, nagpangita sila sang maayo nga timing agud matigayon ang pagpangawat.
Gin-alegar nga ila pa gin-pistolwhip ang babaye kag lalaki nga yara sa sulod sang balay, kag ginpahayag man nga wala man nila ginsakit ang apat ka kabataan nga nagatinir sa sulod apang ila man ini ginpahog samtang ginatakab nila ang pila ka kagamitan.
Pagkatapos sadto, natukiban man nga indi man ini gali first time nga naka-komiter siya sang krimen.
Isa gali ini ka serial offender kag tatlo ka beses na nga na-convict antes pa man ini naaresto sang 2022.
Sang sini lang nga 2023, gindagdag ni New York Judge Melina McGuinnigle ang sentensya kay Anthony nga amo ang 10 ka tuig nga pagkapreso bangud sa iya krimen nga nahimo.
Apang indi amo ina ang ending para sa iya bangud nga sang amo man nga adlaw natalana ang iya kasal.
Apisar may posas na ang iya kamot, wala nag-atras ang bride nga si Victoria kag nagpakasal ini gihapon kay Anthony.
Wala na sang madamo nga tyempo nga nauyang bangud pila ka oras pa lang ini nga nakaguwa sa courtroom, nagbalik ini sa amo gihapon nga hulot, nag-atubang sa amo gihapon nga judge… kag sila ang ginkasal.
Madamo naman ang na-amaze sa sini nga “courtroom drama” bangud isa ka dekada man si Anthony nga manimuron sa presuhan, apang pagka-guwa sini, ginalauman nga yara gihapon ang babaye nga amo naman ang iya makaupod sa iya bilog nga kabuhi.
Lalaki nga nadula sang 27 ka tuig, nakit-an nga buhi sa tupad sang ila balay
ILOILO CITY- May isa ka lalaki sa pungsod Algeria nga nadula sa ila balay isa ka aga sang 1998.
Kag sang damlag lang, matapos ang 27 ka tuig, ini ang nakit-an nga buhi…sa isa ka hulot sa ila man lang tupadbalay.
Ini ang istorya sang 17 -anyos palang sadto nga si Omar bin Omran nga nadula sa ila balay sa Djelfa, Algeria, sang 1998 nga panahon sang Algerian Civil War.
Sang amo nga tion, gindumdom sang iya pamilya nga isa ini sa 200,000 ka tawo nga napatay ukon nalakip sa 20,000 nga gin-kidnap sa amo nga kinagamo.
Wala na sang iban nga nagpadayon sa pagpangita sa iya kundi ang iya iloy apang nagtaliwan ini sang 2013 kag gindumdom sang mga tawo nga isa ang kaso ni Omar bin Omran nga indi gid masolbar.
Apang sang damlag lang, isa ka lalaki ang nanugid nga may yara sang tawo nga ginatago sa balay sang iya utod sa isa ka sekreto nga hulot kag ini nga lalaki ang ginkidnap pila ka dekada na ang nagligad.
Didto na nagsugod ang operasyon sang pulis agud lantawon kun sin-o ang gintago nga lalaki.
Kag, ang amo nga lalaki wala sang iban kundi si Omar bin Omran, nga yara na edad sa masobra 40, kag ang iya stwasyon, may yara ini sang physical kag mental problems.
Gindakop naman ang tag-iya sang balay kag padayon nga ginaimbestigaran.
Suno naman kay Omran, may mga tion man nga makit-an niya sa gwa sang amo nga hulot nga nagalabay ang iya pamilya apang indi ini makahambal agud mangayo sang tabang bangud kaangay nga yara ini sa idalom sang gahum sang mahika sang tawo nga nagkidnap sa iya rason nga gin-antos sini ang amo nga sitwasyon sa sulod sang malapit tatlo ka dekada.
Kriminal, 20 ka tuig nga nagpakuno-kuno nga apa kag bungol para indi madakpan
May isa ka tumalagsahon nga istorya ang isa ka criminal nga indi gid luyag magtinir sa presuhan apisar nga nakasala siya sa layi.
Sang Mayo 22,2024, nagbaisay sila sang iya nga kasilingan kag bangud nga naimpito siya, ginhakwat sini ang pala kag ginlampos sa ulo sang iya kontra nga rason sang kamatayon sini.
Bangud nakahibalo siya nga mapreso siya kag nahadlok man siya sa death penalty,gilayon ini nga nagpalagyo kag ginbayaan ang iya asawa kag 11-anyos nga bata.
Nagkadto siya sa kabukiran sang Anxi County sa Fujian Province kun sa diin nagbaligya siya sang mga basura agud nga mabuhi.
Para nga indi man makalkal ang iya nga nakaligad sa kabuhi, nagpakuno-kuno siya nga apa kag bungol sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig!
Nagayuhom-yuhom lamang ini sa tion nga may tawo kag wala gid siya nagkontak sa iya pamilya bisan isa ka bes.
Apang sang nagligad lamang nga bulan, may nakaaway ini nga isa ka tumandok sa lugar kag gindala siya sa police station.
Ginpaguwa man siya gilayon apang naglapta na ang iya pictures sa national database kag nakit-an sang pulis nga nagasanto ini sa isa ka wanted nga criminal.
Gilayon nga nag-follow up ang pulis kag nag-ako si Xiao nga residente siya sang Xiangcheng District sa Xianyang.
Wala na ini sang nahimo kag gintuad na lamang sa pulis nga 20 ka tuig na siya nga nagapugong nga makahambal agud indi siya maaresto, kag sa sini nga mga tinion,halos daw mabuang na ini.
Gindala si Xiao sa iya nadak-an nga lugar; ginpathag sini kun paano sini napatay ang iya kasilingan kag subong yara na ini sa presuhan.
Balo nga lalaki, na-in love kag nagpakasal sa iya ugangan nga babaye
Siling nila, makibot ka gid sang mga bagay nga sarang mahimo sang gugma.
Amo gani nga halos daw indi makapati ang tanan sang isa ka love story sang isa ka lalaki nga na-in love sa iya nga ugangan!
Ini amo si Sikandar Yadav, 45, nga may duha ka mga kabataan, kag residente sang Bihar sa India.
Ini nga istorya ang nagsugod sa isa ka trahedya sa ila nga pamilya sang napatay ang iya nga asawa.
Agud mabuligan siya sa pagtatap sa iya kabataan, nagsaylo si Sikandar sa balay sang iya mga ugangan sa Heer Moti village sa Bihar.
Sa dalayon sini nga pagtinir didto, nahulog ang iya nga buot sa iya nga 55-anyos nga ugangan nga babaye.
Amat-amat nga naglapta ang tsismis nga ini, kag isa ka adlaw, nakalab-ot na ini sa ihibalo sang ugangan nga lalaki nga si Dileshwar.
Nakumpirma ini sang nagpauli si Dileshwar sa ila nga balay kag naabtan sini ang lovebirds nga nagahaksanay.
Didto kag nakaakig ini kag ginpalab-ot ang reklamo sa Panchayat ukon sa ila nga barangay council agud nga masolbar.
Ginpatawag ang umagad, kag halos nakibot ang tanan bangud sa baylo nga manginwala, maisog sini nga gin-ako nga may relasyon siya sa iya ugangan nga babaye bangud nahulog ang iya buot diri.
Mangin ang ugangan nga babaye ang nagsabat man nga ginahigugma sini si Sikandar.
Malawig pa nga drama ang natabo sa atubang sang council tubtub nga natabo pa gid ang isa ka imposible nga butang: NAGPASUGOT ang ugangan nga lalaki nga ihatag ang iya nga blessing kag nagbulig pa ini agud i-organisar ang kasal sang iya asawa kag umagad!
Wala na sang madamo pa nga uyang sa tyempo bangud nagtipon ang magkasilingan kag gintambungan ang kasal sang duha samtang nga saksi mismo ang una nga bana.
Indi pa maathag kun magapadayon gihapon ini sa pagpuyo kaupod sa iya asawa nga subong may bag-o na nga bana sa persona sang ila umagad.
Bag-o na-imbento nga kutsara, maalat ang sabor para makabulig-likaw sa sakit
Gina-problema mo man bala ang imo nga sodium intake ukon ang pagkonsumo sang mga pagkaon nga may sobra nga asin para nga mas mangin masabor kag maalat?
May yara sang makabulig sa imo paagi sa sining bag-o nga imbensyon sa Japan ukon ang pungsod nga ginalaragway nga “Living In the Future” bangud sa mga abanse sini nga teknolohiya nga mapuslan gid sang mga pumuluyo.
Ang bag-o sini ginatanyag sa publiko amo ang isa ka kutsara nga makasarang maghatag ang maalat nga sabor sa dila sang tawo bisan nga wala man sang madamo nga asin ang iya ginatimo nga pagkaon.
Ini nga kutsara ang may yara sang rechargeable battery nga nagapaguwa sang mahina lamang nga electrical charge nga amo ang nagapaalat sa panabor sang dila.
Suno sa kumpaniya nga nag-imbento sini, tuyo nila nga mabuhinan ang sodium intake sang tawo agud nga mabuligan man ang ila ikaayong lawas.
Kun masobrahan abi ang asin nga gina-consume sang tawo, posible ini magtuga sang mga balatian kaangay sang high blood pressure kag stroke.
Indi basta-basta ini nga kutsara bangud nagalab-ot sa P7,000 ang presyo sini.
Ang Japanese drinks giant nga Kirin Holdings ang magasugod na sa pagbaligya sini subong nga Mayo kag may limited run man sa Japanese retailer sa bulan sang Hunyo.
Lunes sang ginlunsar ini nga produkto nga amo man ang nagamarka sang una nga commercialisation sangsini nga teknolohiya.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nalakip ini sa nagdaog sa Ig Nobel Prize nga amo ang nagakilala sang indi kinaandan nga sahi sang mga research sa bilog nga kalibutan.#
17-anyos nga estudyante sa US, may doctoral degree na
Kun agaw-atensyon ang istorya sang mga tigulang nga pursigido gihapon sa pag-eskwela apisar sang ila edad, may yara man sang baliskad nga mga kaso: mga tawo nga nagapanglakaak na ang nalab-utan sa edukasyon apisar lamharon pa lamang.
Kaangay sining isa ka dalaga sa Chicago, USA nga nagkadto sa iya graduation ceremony subong nga bulan matapos nga nakumpleto na ang iya nga doctoral degree sa edad nga 17.
Suno kay Dorothy Jean Tillman II, na-homeschool siya umpisa sang bata pa lamang tubtub nga nagsulod siya sa kolehiyo sa edad nga 10 ka tuig.
Samtang ang mga kaedaran sini ang yara pa lamang sa middle school, nagpadayon si Dorothy sa pagsulod sa klase sa College of Lake County sa northern Illinois kun sa diin nagtuon siya sang psychology kag nakumpleto ang iya nga associate’s degree sang 2016.
Nakuha man sini ang bachelor’s in humanities halin sa Excelsior College sa New York sang 2018.
Sang 2020, may yara na siya sang Master of Science degree, kag isa ka tuig ang nakalidad, sa edad nga 15, nabaton siya sa Doctorate of Behavioral Health Management program sa Arizona State University.
Sang Disyembre 2023, sa edad nga 17, madinalag-on sini nga nadepensahan ang iya dissertation nga requirement sa iya nga doctoral degree sa integrated behavioral health halin sa College of Health Solutions sa amo nga unibersidad.
Sang Mayo 6, halos tanan nagalantaw sa iya sang yara na ini sa spring commencement ceremony sang buluthuan.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa ginatawag siya sang iya mga pamilya kag abyan sa isa pa ka pangalan: “Dorothy Jeanius.”
Sa tanan nga iya nadangatan, tuman gid ang pagpasalamat ni Dorothy sa bulig sang iya nga iloy kag Lola nga amo ang nagsustiner sa iya agud mabulsa ini nga kadalag-an sa edukasyon.
Mangin ang mga manunudlo ang nagadayaw man sa dedikasyon ni Dorothy.
Siya ang pinakabata sa maragtas sang Arizona State University nga nakaangkon sang doctoral degree sa integrated behavioral health.
Nagalaum man ini nga madamo pa ang ma-inspire ni Dorothy bangud sa iya pinasahi nga pagpalangga sa pagtuon: “That curiosity is always there, and I think all learners come with that, but it’s great to be able to see it in someone so young as well.”#
Estudyante, na-convict sa theft matapos nagtalang sa iya bank account ang P44-M
Kun halimbawa, isa ka adlaw, may nakit-an ka nga gulpi lang nagdaku ang kuwarta sa imo nga bank account, gastuhon mo bala gihapon ini bisan indi imo?
Amo ini ang kaso sang South African student nga si Sibongile Mani sang 2017.
Naga-eskwela pa lamang ini sa kolehiyo kag ginahatagan sang monthly food allowance nga P4,400 bangud nga benepisyaryo siya sang National Student Financial Aid Scheme.
Ginapadala sa ila ang allowance paagi sa Intellimali ukon isa ka kumpaniya nga ang specialization amo ang payment kag administration of funds.
Isa ka adlaw, may error nga natabo kag nagsulod sa account ni Mani ang P44 million.
Wala na ini sang gin-uyang nga tyempo kag gingasto na ang P2.5-million sa sulod lamang sang duha ka bulan.
Lakip sa iya ginbakal amo ang handbags, jackets, habol, bath sheets, alcoholic drinks, kag mga sigarilyo.
Apang nabisto siya kag tinuig ang nakaligad, gindagdagan ini sang sentensya sang East London Regional Court sa South Africa.
Lima ka tuig ini nga pagka-preso bangud sa kaso nga theft.
Gin-apelar sini ang kaso kag ginhatagan na lamang sang “wholly suspended five-year sentence” apang lakip sa kondisyon amo nga indi ini dapat makasuhan sang theft kag fraud.
Indi man ini pwede makaguwa sa iya hometown kun wala sang approval sang correctional services kag kinahanglan man sini magpaidalom sa three-year correctional supervision kag 576 hours community service nga wala sang compensation.
Magluwas diri, ginmanduan man ini nga magpaidalom sa counseling.
Nagpadalagan man ini anay bilang treasurer-general sang isa ka unibersidad sa South Africa apang nagdesisyon nga indi siya pagpapungkuon sa pwesto bangud sa iya nga kaso.#
Babaye nga nadula sa iya husto nga paminsaron, ginasimba sang mga tawo sa isa ka lugar sa India
ILOILO CITY- Kun sa Pilipinas, negatibo ang panulukan naton sa mga tawo nga nadula sa ila husto nga paminsaron kag kun kaisa, ginapakanubo kag ginadiskriminar pa naton sila ukon indi gani ginasikway gid.
Apang may yara sang isa ka lugar nga sa baylo nga malain ang pagtulok, ginasimba pa nila ini kag ginapatihan nga may yara sang gahum.
Ini amo si Topi Amma, ang ginbansagan nga misteryoso nga ‘Hat Mother’ sang Tiruvannamalai, isa ka Hindu pilgrimage city sa Tamil Nadu.
Si Amma ang ginakabig nga kontrobersiyal nga religious nga pigura bangud kun para sa iban, isa lamang ini nga babaye nga nadula sa iya husto nga paminsaron, apang para sa iban, ginakabig nila siya nga ‘siddha’, buot silingon, isa ka enlightened being nga nalab-ot na ang ginatawag nga perfection.
Sa mata sang iban, ginakabig nila nga balaan kag napun-an sang madalom nga kahulugan ang mga hulag ni Amma.
Mangin ang mga tinaga nga nagakawas sa iya mga bibig ang musika para sa mga tawo nga nagapati nga gamhanan siya.
Sa pagkamatuod, mangin ang baso nga ginaimnan ni Topi Amma sang tubig ang ginapulot pa sang mga tawo nga nagapati sa iya.
Sa pihak sini, bangud sa iya maathag nga mental disability, si Topi Amma ang wala gid sang labot sa iya mga deboto kag wala gid nakahangop nga siya gali ang ginasimba bilang perpekto nga tinuga nga may tumalagsahon nga gahum.
Birthday boy nga nagtawag sa 911 agud magpatamyaw, ginsorpresa sang mga pulis
Lain gid ang feeling kun ginatamyaw ikaw sa imo nga birthday.
Espesyal ini nga adlaw nga aton gid gina-selebrar ang aton nga pagkabun-ag diri sa kalibutan.
Didto sa Boston sa Massachusetts, USA, may isa ka lalaki nga naga-selebrar sang iya nga kaadlawan apang wala gid sang nagatamyaw sa iya.
Ini amo si Chris nga nagtapak sa edad nga 25-anyos sa amo nga adlaw.
Bangud naga-isahanon kag bisan tungang-gab-i, nagtawag ini sa emergeny telephone number nga 911 nga ginatawgan lamang kuntani sa tion sang emerhensya.
Didto kag nagpanugid siya nga gusto niya nga may magkanta sa iya sang happy birthday.
Abi sang pulis, prank lang ini kag base sa pagsulundan, istrikto gid nga ginadumilian ang amo sini nga mga joke.
Apang wala ini ginbalewala sang mga police officers nga sanday Israel Branco kag Franklin Ortiz.
Ginkuha nila ang address ni Chris kag nagpanuktok sa balay sini bisan kagab-ihon pa lamang.
Sang ila na-verify nga kaadlawan matuod sini, ginpaguwa na sang duha ka pulis ang ila dala nga gamay nga cake, ginsindihan ang kandila, kag nagkanta sang happy birthday.
Wala sang kaupod si Chris sang amo nga gab-i apang indi naman matakos ang iya yuhom kag kalipay bangud sa efforts sang pulis.
Nagkamustahanay pa sila kag nagpasalamat gid si Chris bangud nga nakumpleto gid ang iya adlaw.
Ginsugid man sang isa ka pulis nga nagdala gid sila sang cake bangud nga indi siya makasaho nga magkadto sa balay sang tawo nga wala sang dala.
Ginsiling man sini nga ginpadaku siya sang maayo sang iya iloy, kag pat-od nga akigan gid siya sini kun mahibaluan nga nagkadto siya sa tawo nga may birthday apang wala sang dala nga regalo.#
Supermom, nag-defend sang iya PhD dissertation inoras matapos nabun-ag ang iya baby sa salakyan
Istorya ini sang isa ka 40-anyos nga iloy nga si Tamiah Brevard-Rodriguez sa NewJersey sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Sang kaagahon sang nagligad nga Abril, ginatapos na ni Tamiah ang iya PowerPoint nga gamiton sini agud depensahan ang iya dissertation nga naka-schedule sa amo nga adlaw.
Ini para sa iya doctorate sa Rutgers Graduate School of Education nga duha ka tuig sini nga ginbaka-bakahan kag amo na lang ini ang kulang agud maka-graduate siya kag maka-enjoy na sa summer.
Apang sang amo man nga kaagahon, indi halos mahibaluan ni Tamiah ang iya batyagon sang naglupok na ang iya panubigan kag nakahibalo siya nga mabata na gid siya!
Bisan malipayon siya nga mabata na siya, indi ini malubos-lubos bangud pila ka oras na lang ang nabilin kag kinahanglan na sini depensahan ang dissertation.
Dali-dali sila nga nagpaospital apang wala na gid nakahingagaw sa birthing center bangud samtang yara pa lang sa salakyan, nagguwa na si baby boy nga ila ginpangalanan nga Baby Enzo.
Naka-settle na si Mommy Tamiah sa labor delivery room samtang nga gintawgan naman sang partner sini ang iya nga eskwelahan agud nga mangayo sang konsiderasyon kag ipostpone lang ang dissertation bangud sa pagbata ni Tamiah.
Apang mismo si Tamiah na ang nagdesisyon nga indi na lang pag-ipostpone bangud basi kun ma-delay naman sa bag-o nga schedule kag maatrasar ang iya paggraduate.
Sa bulig sang hospital staff, gintatap anay si Baby Enzo sa nursery kag ginbutangan sang card ang puertahan agud malikawan ang interruptions.
Nag-ilis sang bayo ang mommy, nag-makeup, nag-atubang sa laptop kag ginpresentar ang iya nga dissertation nga nahanungod sa standards para sa black women sa kolehiyo kun sa diin mas madamo ang white nga mga tawo.
Isa ka oras ang presentasyon sa atubang sang 56 ka tawo, kag suno kay Tamiah, grabe man ang iya transition halin sa mommy brain pakadto sa scholar brain agud lamang matapos sini ang iya doctorate degree.
Wala gid siya nagsala bangud sini nga summer, indi lamang si Baby Enzo ang nagdugang sa ila pamilya kundi natuman pa ang handum sini nga maka-graduate bilang doctor sa education halin sa Rutgers Graduate School of Education.#
Bana, nadiskubrehan nga lalaki man gali ang iya asawa 12 ka adlaw matapos ang ila kasal
Antes mo pakaslan ang isa ka tawo, daw ano mo ayhan ini kakilala?
Ini nga istorya ang magahatag sa leksyon sa aton nga indi magpahinali kundi dapat nga mangin mahinalungon gid sa pagpili sang tawo nga higugmaon.
Sa Indonesia, may 26-anyos nga lalaki nga sobra-sobra gid ang paghigugma sa babaye nga bag-o lang sini nakilala.
Nagkilalahay sila paagi lamang sa internet, kag sa una nila nga pagkitaay, baw, na-love-at-first-sight gid dayon ang lalaki sa babaye!
Masami nga may takop nga belo ang nawong sang babaye, kag ginpinsar sang lalaki nga basi mahuyaon lang ini.
Bangud gusto gid niya ang babaye, ginpadayon nila ang pag-date kag sang ulihi, ginhagad nga magpakasal.
Nagsugot ang babaye apang naghingyo nga indi lang pag-iparehistro ang kasal bangud nga bag-o lang napatay ang iya iloy kag madugay naman nga nangindulaan ang iya amay gani nga wala man ini sang imbitaron.
Abril 12, 2024 sang nagsugtanay sila sa secret marriage sa atubang sang isa ka religious leader sa Wangunjaya Village kun sa diin nagaistar ang lalaki.
Apang bisan kasado na ang duha, wala pa gihapon ginakakas sang babaye ang belo, wala man ini naga-istorya sa iban nga paryente sang iya bana, kag labi sa tanan, wala sila sang honeymoon!
Isa ka semana ang nagligad pagkatapos sang kasal, indi na makaagwanta ang lalaki gani nagpangayo sang bulig sa mga paryente.
Eksakto 12 ka adlaw matapos ang ila kasal sang nadiskubrehan sini nga ang iya bride, indi gali matahum nga babaye, kundi isa man ka lalaki!
Nakit-an man nila ang tatay sini nga amo naman ang nag-sorry sa nahimo sang iya anak.
Sa bulig sang mga pulis, napaako ang bride sa iya nga sala, kag nagdepensa man ini nga nahimo lamang niya ini para sa kuwarta.
Nagapangatubang subong ang bride sang kaso nga paglapas sa Article 378 sang Criminal Code sang Indonesia kag posible mapreso sa sulod sang apat ka tuig.
Nagpahanumdom naman ang Religious Affairs Office nga malikawan ini nga mga insidente kun ginahikot sang bride kag groom nga opisyal nga ipa-rehistro ang ila nga kasal.
Babaye nga anak sang mangunguma, nagpanguna sa PMA Class of 2024
Nagapanguna sa Bagong Sinag Class of 2024 sang Philippine Military Academy ang babaye nga anak sang isa ka mangunguma.
Ini amo si Cadet First Class Jeneth Elumba, 24, residente sang Surigao del Norte, kag ika-pito nga babaye nga PMA Class valedictorian halin sang nagsugod ang akademya sa pagbaton sang mga babaye nga kadete sang 1993.
Sa 278 nga myembro sang Class of 2024, pito ka mga babaye ang nalakip sa Top 10 suno sa PMA nga amo sanday:
Nagapangaduha si Mark Armuel Boiles, pangatlo si Kim Harold Gilo kag pang-pito si Floyd Niño Arthur Roxas sang Iloilo.
Ang lista sang topnotchers ang gin-anunsyo sa Longayban Hall, Fort General Gregorio H.
Del Pilar sa Baguio City, Mayo 10, samtang ang graduation naman ang patigayunon sa Borromeo Field sa PMA sa Mayo 18.#
100-anyos nga war veteran, magapakasal sa 96-anyos nga nobya sa mismo World War II Site
Mas maduagon pa gid ang kabuhi sang isa ka tawo kun siya ang nagahigugma.
Amo man ini ang ginapatihan sang isa ka 100-anyos nga war veteran nga natalana nga magpakasal sa iya nga 96-anyos nga sweetheart sa masunod nga bulan!
Handa na sila sa seremonya sang kasal nga hiwaton sa France nga amo man ang lugar kun sa diin nagpangalagad si Terens sang World War II.
Sa Hunyo 6 ukon duha ka adlaw antes ang ila nga kasal, pasidunggan man si Terens kadungan sang komemorasyon sang 80th anniversary sang D-Day landings sa Normandy, ang maragtason nga allied operation nga amo ang nagpalain sa dalagan sang gyera sang amo nga tyempo.
Magabayluhanay naman sang vows ang duha sa Carentan-les-Marais nga malapit sa kadagatan kun sa diin linibo anay ka soldado ang nagtabok kag napatay sang amo nga adlaw sang 1944.
Apisar sa iya edad subong, preska pa sa paminsaron ni Terens ang mga hitabo sang naga-edad pa lamang siya sang 18-anyos, ang tyempo nga ginbombahan sang Japan ang US Navy base sa Pearl Harbor.
Kaangay sa iban nga bataon nga mga Amerikano, nagpa-enlist man ini kag sa edad nga 20, eksperto na ini sa Morse code kag nagsakay sa barko pakadto sa England kun sa diin na-assign siya sa squadron sang apat ka P-47 Thunderbolt fighters.
Nadulaan ang ila company sang 60 ka mga eroplano kadungan ang Normandy operation kag pagkatapos sina, nagboluntaryo si Terens nga magbyahe sa rehiyon sa northern France agud magbulig nga mapasakay ang German prisoners of war kag mahilway ang Allied troops pa-England.
Pagkatapos sang gyera, nagpakasal na siya sa iya kahagugma nga si Thelma.
Naglawig sang pito ka dekada ang ila pag-asawahay sa Florida kag nagbunga ang ila paghigugmaanay sang tatlo ka mga kabataan.
Sang 2018, napatay na si Thelma rason nga tuman naman ang kasubo ni Terens kag halos indi gid mauntat ang iya kahidlaw sa iya nga asawa.
Nahatagan lamang ini sang preska nga panugod sang 2021 sang ginpakilala siya sang iya abyan kay Jeanne Swerlin nga isa man ka balo kaangay niya.
Indi kaangay sa iban nga lovers, wala sang kilig sa ila una nga pagkit-anay, apang bangud sa dalayon nga pagkit-anay kag date, halos indi na sila maseparar sa isa kag isa.
Pareho na nga excited ang duha nga maka-“I Do” kun sa diin ang apo pa mismo ni Terens ang magakanta sang “I Will Always Love You”.
Sa edad nga 100, ginpahayag sang military veteran nga wala na siya sang iban pa nga mapangayo pa: “I got it all.
Kabayo nga duha ka adlaw nga na-trap sa atop bangud sa baha, na-rescue
Kun ang tawo halos mapatay sa kakulba sa tion nga ma-trap sa balay kun may baha, amo man sini ang nabatyagan sang mga sapat.
Amo ini ang sitwasyon sa Brazil kun sa diin pila ka adlaw na nga lapnagon ang baha, linibo ang nagbakwit, masobra 100 ka tawo ang patay, kag masobra man 100 ang missing.
Isa sa nakaagaw sang atensyon sang tanan amo ang isa ka kabayo nga makaluluoy ang sitwasyon bangud isahanon ini nga nagatindog sa atop kun sa diin nagalumapaw ang tubig-baha.
Ginpahayag nga duha ka adlaw na nga amo sini ang iya posisyon sa rooftop sang farmhouse sa Canoas sa southern Brazil.
Mangin ang mayor sang banwa ang nagpanawagan man sa otoridad nga luwason ang sapat antes ini mahulog sa iya ginatindugan.
Sa pagbuligay sang volunteer rescuers kag army vets, nabuligan ang kabayo kag nasaylo sa Zodiac inflatable boat agud nga madala ini sa hilway nga lugar.
Nahibaluan nga halos suba na subong ang sitwasyon sa mga dalan sa Rio Grande do Sul kag masobra naman sa 164,000 ka mga residente ang na-displace bangud sa mabaskog nga pag-ulan nga gina-forecast nga magalawig pa sa masunod nga mga inadlaw.#
80-anyos nga gobernador sang Batangas, nagpakasal sa bataon nga abogada
Ginkasal ang 80-anyos nga si Batangas Governor Hermilando Mandanas sa abogada nga si Atty.
Ginapahayag nga malapit 50-anyos ang agwat sang ila nga edad.
Sa vow naman ni Chua, ginsiling sini nga ginhagad siya ni Mandanas nga mag-date sang Valentine’s Day.
Emosyonal man si Chua sang ginpaathag sini kun ngaa nagpasugot siya nga makasal sa gobernador.
Ginpatigayon ang reception sang kasal sa atubang sang provincial capitol.
Sandig sa reports, nagsugod sa pag-date ang duha subong lamang nga tuig nga malapit duha ka tuig kasunod sang kamatayon sang anay asawa ni Mandanas nga si Anakalusugan Party-list nominee Regina Reyes.
Lakip sa mga nagtambong sa kasal amo sanday President Bongbong Marcos, First Lady Liza Araneta-Marcos, Former President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, House Speaker Rep.
Hari gikan sa Ghana, nagtrabaho bilang hardinero sa Canada
ILOILO CITY- Subong nga adlaw, ipakilala ko sa imo ang isa ka hari halin sa isa ka nasyon apang sang nagpadulong ini sa iban nga pungsod, ang trabaho sini isa ka hardinero.
Nagpadulong ini sa Canada agud magtrabaho kag ang iya ginsudlan amo ang pagka- hardinero.
Suno kay Manu, nagtrabaho ini sa Canada agud magtipon sang kwarta kag mga supply para sa iya village.
Nagapati siya nga ang isa ka maayo nga hari ang nagapakita sang pagkamapainubuson kag pagpalangga sa iya mga nasakupan.
Si Manu ang padayon nga nagatrabaho sa Canada agud makatipon naman sang kwarta para sa pag-improve sang healthcare sang iya mga pumuluyo.
Pasahero, nagtuyo magsakay sa eroplano dala ang mga man-og sa iya delargo
Imagine kun yara ikaw sa eroplano nga may sakay man gali nga man-og!
Indi man delikado ang tanan nga man-og, apang may mga tawo abi nga naga-panic gid dayon kun makakita sini kag nagatuga sang komosyon.
Sa Miami International Airport sa Florida, isa ka pasahero ang nagtuyo nga dal-on ang iya nga man-og sa iya byahe.
Agud nga mahimo ini, ginsulod niya ini sa gamay nga pouch kag ginbutang sa iya nga delargo.
Apang wala gid naswertehan ang lalaki bangud wala nakalusot sa Transportation Security Administration (TSA) officials ang iya nga animal friends bangud nakit-an ang mga ini pag-abot sa security checkpoint.
Sunod nga nagpakig-angot ang otoridad sa US Customs and Border Protection kag sa Miami Dade Police Department agud nga matatapan ang amo nga bagay.
Ginpaathag naman sang US Department of Transportation nga ang federal kag state governments ang nagapatuman sang istrikto nga restrictions sa pagbyahe sang buhi nga mga sapat kag kada airline ang may yara man sang company policy kun paano ini ma-handle sang maayo kun sila ang yara sa transportasyon.
Indi ini ang una nga bes nga may nagtuyo nga magpalusot sang sapat bangud may yara man anay sang nagdala sang 4-foot boa constrictor para sa “emotional support” samtang isa naman ang nagbitbit sang orange nga kuring sa luggage apang palareho nga wala ginpasugtan sang paluparan.
Isa ka nanay, gin-kidnap ang 11-anyos nga bata agud padakuon kag mangin asawa sang iya anak
Natural lang para sa iloy nga ulikdan kag paminsaron pirme ang buasdamlag sang iya anak — pati na ang pagpangasawa sini ukon kun kay sin-o ayhan ini nga babaye magatupa.
Kun naga-nobyahanay na gani sila, ginausisa gid sang iloy kun maayo man ayhan ang batasan sang babaye kag kun maayo ang impluwensya nga dala sini.
Apang may indi basta-basta nga mga kaso sang isa ka iloy kun sa diin sa sobra sini nga panumdom sa asawahon sang iya anak, nasarangan sini nga mang-agaw sang bata sang iban!
Ini amo ang Chinese nga babaye nga si Yang nga may yara sang 27-anyos nga anak nga lalaki.
Isa ka adlaw sang Pebrero 2023, nagbisita siya sa Liupanshui City sa probinsya sang Guizhou kun sa diin nakit-an sini ang 11 -anyos nga bata nga babaye.
Kumbinsido si Yang nga mangin maayo nga asawa ang bata sa iya anak nga lalaki KUN mapadako lang ini sang maayo.
Gani wala na ini sang huya-huya pa kag nag-ayo sa mga ginikanan sang bata kun pwede niya ini ma-adopt.
Wala nagpasugot ang Tatay, gani nga nagpauli na lang si Yang, apang wala pa didto natapos ang iya nga plano.
Nagbalik si Yang sa amo nga syudad kaupod na mismo ang iya 27-anyos nga anak nga lalaki kag sang nahibaluan nila nga wala sang kaupod ang bata sa balay, ila ini ginkuha kag gindala sa ila nga balay.
Anum ka adlaw ang nagligad, gin-aresto si Yang kag apat ka adlaw ang makaligad sina, nagsungka man ang iya anak nga lalaki.
Ginsentensyahan ang duha sang pagka-preso kun sa diin duha ka tuig para kay Yang kag pito ka bulan naman para sa anak sini bangud sa child abduction.
Gin-apelar pa nila ang desisyon apang sang nagligad lamang nga bulan, ginpalig-on pa sang Appeals Court ang nauna nga desisyon sang korte kag ginpatuman gid ang sentensya.
Tuman naman ang kaugot sang iban bangud nga kalip-ot lang sang tion nga mapreso ang duha apisar nga daku nga krimen ang ila nahimo nga isa ka child trafficking.
Nahibaluan nga may daan nga tradisyon sa China nga ginatawag nga child brides ukon ang “tong yang xi” kun sa diin naga-adopt ang pamilya sang bata nga babaye agud nga padak-on ini kag hanason para mangin maayo nga asawa sa ila bata nga lalaki.
Gin-ban na ini sang 1950 apang ini nga practice ang ginapadayon gihapon sa rural areas kaangay sa natabo natabo sa sini nga kaso.
Halos indi kita mahubsan sang ideya kun paano maumpawan subong nga binulan na nga nagatagiti ang init.
May yara nga pila ka beses nagapaligo sa isa ka adlaw, may nagahimo sang “do it yourself” nga air conditioner, may naga-paligo sa ice, may nagakonsumo sang halo-halo, kag madamo nga iban pa.
Sa Thailand, pinasahi pa gid ang napinsaran sang mga residente sa Phayuha Khiri District sa probinsya sang Nakhon Sawan agud nga bisan paano, makaulan man sa ila nga lugar kag matugnawan man ang palibot.
Nagparada sila kag ang ila nga dala amo ang Japanese cartoon cat nga si Doraemon!
Naka-costume pa ang mga nag-upod sa parada samtang nga ginsulod naman si Doraemon sa hawla kag samtang nagapadayon sila sa parade, ginabasyahan sang tubig sang iban nga mga residente ang nasambit nga kuring.
Daan na ini nga dry season ritual nga kilala nga “Hae Nang Meaw” ukon ang literal nga pagparada sa babaye nga kuring, apang sini nga tuig, indi buhi nga kuring kundi si Doraemon kag HelloKitty dolls ang bitbit sang mga tawo.
Ini ang kabahin sa ila pagpati nga ang kuring ang naangot sa pag-ulan kag ang ila pag-“meow meow” bangud sa ila kaugot kun mabasa sila amo ang nagatawag sa pag-ulan.
Nahibaluan nga indi basta-basta ang init sa Thailand kun sa diin sa south nga bahin particular sa Nakhon Si Thammarat province, nagatiko na ang mga railway tracks kag kinahanglan pa nga mag-spray sang tubig ang railway workers agud nga mabalik ang husto nga shape sini.
Temporaryo man nga ginsirado ang alagyan sang tren kag ginsuspende anay ang operasyon bangud ginkaayo ang tracks nga nag-misalign bangud sa stress nga tuga sang tuman nga kainit.
Lalaki sa Russia, gindakop bangud sa color sang iya buhok nga kaangay sa flag sang Ukraine
May mga lugar nga istrikto gid ang pagsulundan pag-abot sa tattoo sa lawas, pagsuksok sang aritos, ukon mangin ang istilo kag color sang buhok.
Apang may mga kaso naman nga indi lang basta-basta, kag nagalab-ot pa sa punto nga makasuhan kag mamultahan bangud sa sini nga mga bagay.
Kaangay sa sining natabo sa 25-anyos nga si Stanislav Netesov sa Russia nga nagpa-color sang iya nga buhok sang yellow kag blue nga natabuan man nga amo ang color sang flag sang Ukraine nga amo subong ang gina-atake sang Russian Army.
Sang nagligad lamang nga semana, isa ka gab-i, samtang yara si Netesov sa bus stom sa Moscow, na-biktima siya sang kawatan, nadagit ang iya nga cellphone, kag natapungulan pa ini sang suspek.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagkadto siya sa Ministry of Internal Affairs sa Tverskoy district agud nga i-report ang krimen.
Apang sa baylo nga hatagan siya sang bulig, mas interesado ang otoridad sa iya bangud sa iya nga buhok nga kaangay gid sa color sang flag sang Ukraine.
Bangud nga ginakonsiderar ini nga simbolo sang Ukraine, makabig man ini nga insulto kag pagtraidor sa Russian army kag may penalidad sa idalom sang layi sa amo nga nasyon.
Bangud sini, wala na nasapak ang iya nga report kag sa baylo, ginkuhaan pa siya sang fingerprints kag ginpakadto sa military registration kag enlistment office.
Gindeklarar pa sang otoridad nga pahalukon ini sa duta.
Nahibaluan nga ginakilala sang Russian courts ang mga anti-war statements nga isa ka pagbastos sa militar kag dapat nga multahan sang tubtub sa tubtub sa malapit P31,000 kag tubtub naman sa lima ka tuig nga pagkapreso kun sulit-sulit na nga madakpan.
Sang nagligad nga summer, may yara man sang kaso sa Penza kun sa diin namultahan man ang isa ka pensioner sang P62,000 bangud sa pag-like sini sang social media post kun sa diin may negatibo nga komento batok sa Russian military.#
Nature lover, masobra 1,000 ka puno sang kahoy ang nahakos sa sulod sang 1 ka oras!
Siling nila, kun single ka kag daw wala ka gid sang hakson-hakson, no problem bangud “you can hug a tree!”
Ina bangud base sa pagtuon, ang pagkupo sa puno sang kahoy ang nagapasaka sang lebel sang hormone nga responsable para sa pagkalma kag para sa emotional well being sang isa ka tawo.
Mahimo man ini makapanubo sang blood pressure kag heart rates, maka-improve sang immunity, kag maka-buhin sang stress kag anxiety levels.
Apang may isa ka tawo nga tumandok sang Ghana nga indi lang isa ka puno ang iya ginhakos kundi lapaw sa 1,000 sa sulod lamang ina sang isa ka oras!
Ini amo si Abubakar Tahiru, 29, nga nagatuon sang forestry sa Alabama nga nagtuyo nga maka-set sang world record paagi sa pagpanghakos sang mga kahoy sa Tuskegee National Forest.
Halin sang bata pa siya, interesado na siya sa nature conservation rason nga nagpadayon ini sang iya nga master’s degree sa forestry sa Auburn University.
Para sa iya nga record attempt, required si Tahiru nga kup-an gid sang duha ka kamot ang puno kag dapat siguruhon nga indi ma-damage.
Indi man dapat pagsuliton hakos ang isa ka kahoy rason nga grabe ang speed ni Tahiru para makumpleto ini sa isa ka oras.
Sang amo pa nga tion, nagapuasa si Tahiru gani nga isa pa ini ka pagpanghangkat sa iya kag tuman ang kakapoy.
Sa average nga 19 ka kahoy kada minuto, nalapawan sini ang minimum requirement nga 700 ka kahoy agud maka-establish sang record bangud nagdangat sa 1,123 ka kahoy ang iya nahakos.
Ini nga record ang nagapasaka pa sang awareness kag importansya sang kahoy kag environmental conservation ilabi na subong nga tuman ka init ang tyempo.
Aktibo nga bulkan, nagabuga sang bulawan adlaw-adlaw!
Nakakita ka na bala sang bulkan nga sa baylo nga abo ang iya ginaguba, bulawan ang nagagwa sa iya baba?
Daw kaangay nga isa lang ini ka damgo apang matuod ini sa Antarctica bangud bulawan ang nagaulan halin sa kahawaan kun nagabuga na ang bulkan.
Ini amo ang Mount Erebus nga amo ang southernmost active volcano sa kalibutan.
Ang nasambit nga frozen continent naga-feature sang 138 volcanoes a diin siyam ang ginapahayag nga aktibo.
Sa kataason nga 12,448 feet (3,794 meters), ang Mount Erebus amo ang pinakakilala.
Ang Erebus isa sa tatlo ka mga bulkan nga nagabug-os sang Ross Island.
Ang bulkan regularl nga nagabuga sang gas nga may upod nga magagmat nga crystals sang metallic gold nga nagkibot sa mga scientists.
Ginabanta nga kada adlaw, nagabuga ini sang 80 grams sang bulawan nga balor $6,000 ukon kapin P300,000.
First-time mom, nagbun-ag sang anum ka mga lapsag sa sulod lang sang isa ka oras
Mabudlay apang pinasahi ang balatyagon nga mangin isa ka first-time mommy, apang ano pa gid ayhan kun sa imo una nga pagbusong, anum gid dayon ka lapsag ang imo ginbun-ag?
Tumalagsahon ini nga kaso kun sa diin nagakatabo lamang sang isa ka bes sa 4.7 billion — butang nga ginatawag sang iban nga isa ka milagro.
Apang amo ini ang natabo sa isa ka 27-anyos nga Pakistani nga mommy sang nagbun-ag ini sang nagligad lamang nga semana.
Ang iya nga sextuplets ang ginalakipan sang apat ka lalaki kag duha ka babaye.
Ginbata sila ni Mommy Zeenat Waheed sa ospital sa syudad sang Rawalpindi, Pakistan.
Isa ka oras lamang ang pagbun-ag sini sa anum ka lapsaog suno sa ospital.
Bangud sa ila kadamuon, yara lamang sa below two pounds ang ila nga bug-at kag ginbutang anay sa incubator samtang yara pa sila sa medical facility.
Suno pa sa ospital, may mga kumplikasyon sa iloy sang tion sang labor, apang nangin estable na ang kondisyon sini makaligad ang pila ka adlaw sa bulig sang doktor kag iban pa nga paramedical staff.
Flight sang masobra 150 ka pasahero, nakanselar matapos nahubog ang piloto
Imagine kun nagapanginit ka na sa delay sa imo nga flight, tapos nahibaluan mo nga ang rason gali kun ngaa naatrasar ang byahe amo ang hubog nga piloto!
Pakamaayuhon mo ayhan nga magsakay pa, ukon “no thanks, I love my life!”?
Natabo ini sa Japan nga ginkumpirma mismo sang Japan Airlines Co.
Ginpahayag nga ginkanselar sang damlag lang ang isa ka flight halin sa Dallas, Texas, USA nga pakadto kuntani sa Tokyo matapos nahubog ang 49-anyos nga piloto sa sulod sang hotel.
Ang involved diri amo ang Flight 11 nga magahugpa kuntani sa Haneda airport sang Myerkules.
Apang ang natabo: sang nag-abot ang pilot sa Dallas sang Lunes, nagpanyapon ini kaupod sa iban nga crew members sa isa ka restaurant.
Ginpadayon pa ang party sa lounge sang hotel nga ila ginatiniran amo man sa iya nga kuwarto.
Pasado 2:00 sa kaagahon sang Martes, nagsaway pa ang hotel staff sa ila nga hagan-haganon ang gahod, apang bangud daw indi na matolerar ang ginapahanghambal kag aktwasyon sang piloto, gintawag ang pulis.
Ginkadtuan gid sang pulis ang hotel kag ginpaandaman ang piloto nga indi na magliwat.
Naka-schedule naman kuntani nga maghalin ang flight 11:05 sang aga sang Myerkules, apang nag-desisyon ang airline company nga i-check anay ang pisikal kag mental status sang pilot.
Ginbuligan na lamang ang 157 ka mga pasahero nga masaylo sa iban nga flights.
Ang aircraft naman nga ginadala sang piloto ang ginpabalik sa Tokyo Haneda bilang flight JL11D kag wala sang sakay nga pasahero.
Dalaga nga na-diagnose nga may ‘love brain’, nagatawag sa iya nobyo sang 100 ka beses sa isa ka adlaw
Importante ang paghatag sang updates sa imo girlfriend ukon boyfriend agud mapabilin nga solid ang inyo nga relasyon kag agud makasalig ini nga safe lang ikaw pirme.
May kilala ka bala nga halos oras-oras na nga nagapangayo sang update nga halos kada tikang kag liso sang karelasyon, dapat gid nga isugid sa iya?
Ini ang kaso sang 18-anyos nga babaye sa China nga gintago lamang sa pangalan nga Xiaoyu.
Una nga tuig sa kolehiyo si Xiaoyu sang nagseparar na ini sa iya ginikanan bangud kinahanglan sini magtinir malapit sa iya nga university.
Didto man siya nakaangkon sang boyfriend kun sa diin nangin amat-amat na siya nga nangin clingy kag dependent tubtub sa punto nga naga-demand na ini nga kinahanglan nga pirme sila naga-istoryahanay.
Halos indi naman makaginhawa si boyfriend bangud sa batasan sang babaye.
Nakaagi man nga sulit-sulit ang message ni Xiaoyu nga nagahingyo sa boyfriend nga buksan ang iya camera, kag sang wala naman nagsapak ang lalaki, wala gid nag-untat ang babaye.
Naglala ang sitwasyon kag naglab-ot pa sa punto nga 100 ka beses gid sa isa ka adlaw ang pagtawag ni Xiaoyu sa lalaki.
Bangud sa pagka-upset sang dalaga, ginpangguba pa sini ang mga gamit sa iya nga aparment.
Didto na kag nagtawag sang pulis ang boyfriend kag maayo na lang bangud nakaabot sila antes pa man nadayon ang tuyo sang babaye nga maglumpat sa balkonahe.
Gindala ini sa ospital kag sang ulihi nadiagnose nga may “love brain” ukon isa ka obsessive behavior sa romantic relationships.
Ini nga sahi sang borderline personality disorder ang nagaguwa sa tawo nga nagasuprer sa anxiety, depression, kag bipolar disorder.
Ginpahayag man sang doktor nga ini ang masami maangot sa unhealthy childhood attachments—ilabi na kun indi maayo ang relasyon sang isa ka tawo sa iya nga ginikanan ukon sa mga tawo sa iya palibot.
Ang mild cases sang love brain ang mahimo pa nga ma-manage paagi sa emotional management techniques samtang ang mga severe cases naman kaangay sa kaso ni Xiaoyu ang nagakinahanglan na sang medical intervention.#
3 ka mga soldado, napilasan matapos nakabuhi kag nagkuyampad ang military horses sa central London
Imagine kun ikaw nagalakat-lakat lang ukon indi gani naga-tambay lang sa kilid sang dalan, apang may nag-wild kag nagakuyampad na ang tanan.
Didto sa London, natabo ini apang indi tawo ang nag-amok kundi ang mga kabayo!
Ini nga mga elite nga kabayo sang military ang nakabuhi gikan sa prestihiyoso nga Household Cavalry ukon ang official bodyguard sang Hari kag amo ang nagapakigbahin sa mga ceremonial duties.
Naka-base ini sa Hyde Park barracks nga malapit gid lamang sa Buckingham Palace.
Myerkules sang aga oras sa London sang ginhimo ang routine exercise sa Belgravia area.
Suno sa army, pito ka mga kabayo kag anum ka mga soldado gikan sa Household Cavalry ang yara sa amo nga exercise sang gulpi lang nga naggamo.
Apat ka service personnel ang nagtabog bangud sa pagkabuhi sang mga kabayo.
Isa ka puti nga kabayo ang nakuhaan pa sang video nga nagdugo ang lawas matapos nga nakabunggo ini sa taxi samtang ang isa naman ang nakabunggo sa windscreen sang naka-park nga bus.
Suno pa sa British Army, nakibot ang mga kabayo sang may nahulog nga semento malapit sa construction work sa ila nga lugar, gani nga nagpalalagyo ang mga ini kag nagtuga sang gamo.
Bangud sini, tatlo man ka mga soldado ang napilsan kag subong ginabulong man sa ospital apang estable an ang kondisyon.
Mangin ang City of London Police ang nahaw-asan man nga nakabalik na ang mga military horses.
72- anyos nga lolo, 613 ka adlaw gid nga nagsuprir sang COVID-19 infection
ILOILO CITY- Sang panahon nga yara pa kita sa kasagsagan sang Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, halos indi naton ma- imagine nga makaangkon kita sang amo nga balatian bangud kabaylo sini amo nga ma-quarantine kita sang pila ka semana, indi naton mapalapitan ang aton pamilya, kag madamo pa nga konsekwensiya nga dala.
Apang wala ina kun ipaanggid sa inagihan sang isa ka pasyente sa Netherlands nga ang iya pag-antos sang COVID-19, naglawig sang 613 ka adlaw ukon kapin sa 20 ka bulan.
Ang pasyente isa ka 72-anyos nga lalaki nga na-infect sang Omicron variant sang 2022 apang nag-angkon sang severe immunity deficiencies matapos gintublukan sang multiple Covid shots.
Humalin sadto, wala na nag-untat ang pag- positibo niya sa coronavirus nga naglab-ot sa 613 ka adlaw.
Sa amo nga kalawig nga pag-antos, gintinguhaan sang mga doctor nga buligan ang tigulang apang ang iya lawas ang indi makasarang nga magbato sa virus bisan pa sa bulig sang antibody medication.
Sa malain nga palad, siya ang napatay gid sang Oktubre sang nagligad nga tuig kag siya subong ang ginakabig sang mga researchers nga longest-ever known case of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Baby girl, naluwas pa sa taguangkan sang iya iloy nga napatay sa airstrike sa Israel
Tumalagsahon kag makatalandog-balatyagon ang natabo sa Gaza bangud natigayon pa nga masalbar sang mga doktor ang isa ka lapsag gikan sa taguangkan sang isa ka iloy nga napatay bangud sa pagpang-atake sang Israel sa syudad sang Rafah.
Ang iloy ang ginkilala nga si Sabreen al-Sakani kag nagabusong sang 30 na ka semana sang natabo ang airstrike sang nagligad nga gab-i.
Sa amo nga insidente, patay man ang iya nga bana nga si Shoukri kag ang ila isa pa ka tatlo ka tuig nga anak nga babaye nga si Malak.
Matapos nahibaluan sang responders nga nagabusong ang iloy, dali-dali ini nga gindala sa Kuwaiti hospital sa Rafah kag bangud kritikal na ang kondisyon sang iloy bangud naigu pati ang utok sini, kinahanglan nga isa lang sa ila sang bata ang luwason.
Nasalbar ang bata paagi sa ginpatigayon nga emergency caesarean sa iloy.
Nagapabilin ini subong sa incubator sa neonatal unit sang amo nga Emirati hospital samtang ginsunod naman ang iya pangalan sa iya nga iloy.
Tatlo tubtub apat ka semana ang itinir sini sa ospital bangud sa respiratory distress syndrome nga tuga sang premature birth.
Bangud ilo na ini kag nawad-an pa sang utod, magapabilin ini sa pagtatap sang iya nga Lola nga si Mirvat al-Sakani.
Nahibaluan nga ang overnight airstrike sang Israel sa Rafah sang nagligad nga Sabado kag Domingo ang nagbilin sang 19 ka mga patay, lakip na dira ang 13 ka kabataan gikan lamang sa isa ka pamilya.#
Lalaki nga ginkasuhan bangud nagamaneho samtang hubog, gin-acquit sa korte matapos napamatud-an nga nagamato-mato produce sang alcohol ang iya lawas
Nakahibalo ka bala nga may tawo nga wala man naga-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon, apang daw hubog gihapon bangud sa alcohol nga ara na nga daan sa ila nga lawas?
Tuman ka gamay lamang nga numero ang may amo sini nga kondisyon nga ginatawag nga auto-brewery syndrome (ABS) nga amo ang rason kun ngaa ang carbohydrates sa ila lawas ang nagaagi sa fermentation, nagasaka ang ethanol levels sa ila nga dugo kag naga-resulta sa senyales sang pagkahubog.
Sa Belgium, may isa ka lalaki nga nadakpan sang 2022 nga naga-drive nga hubog paagi sa breathalyser nga equipment sang pulis.
Isa ka bulan ang nagligad, nadakpan ini liwat sa amo man gihapon nga kaso apang sulit-sulit ini nga nanindugan nga wala siya nakainom.
Nabukaran man nga sang Abril 2019, una na nga namulthan ang amo nga tawo kag nasuspende pa ang lisensya bangud sa kaangay nga sala.
Ginpasaka sa korte ang kaso kag subong lamang napaguwa ang desisyon.
Base sa desisyon sang huwes, napamatud-an sang 40-anyos nga lalaki nga may yara ini matuod sang auto-brewery syndrome rason nga daw hubog ini pirma.
Halos 20 lamang ka tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan ang may amo sini nga kondisyon gani indi ini pamilyar sa kadam-an.
Tatlo ka mga doktor ang nagpamatuod sa kondisyon sang lalaki kag nangin rason ini kun ngaa na-acquit ang tawo sa iya nga kaso.
Ginpakigbahin man sang lalaki nga ginasunod gid sini ang carbohydrate-light diet agud nga malikawan sini nga mag-produce sang tuman ka damo nga alcohol sa iya nga lawas.#
Tigulang nga inoras na nga napatay, ginpasulod sa bangko agud magpirma sang utang
Indi makahibalo ang mga tawo sa isa ka bangko sa Brazil kun makulbaan, madalagan, ukon malipong na insigida bangud sa isa ka eksena kun sa diin gindala sang isa ka babaye ang isa ka bangkay agud nga magpirma para sa iya loan.
Nagalab-ot sa $3,400 ukon masobra P194,000 ang iya kuntani nga utangon sa bangko.
Sa nakit-an sa video, gina-buligan ni Nunes ang lalaki nga nagapungko sa wheelchair apang talalupangdon nga nagalungi na ang ulo sang tawo kag wala gid naga-steady apisar pila ka beses ini nga ginakaptan sang babaye.
Apisar sini, nagasige sa pag-istorya ang babaye kag ginatawag pa ang tawo nga “uncle”.
Iya ini ginapilit nga magpirma sa financial documents, kag ginapilit man sini nga ibutang ang ballpen sa tudlo sang tawo kag ginasilingan ini nga hugton ang pagkapot.
Sang ginmuno sang bank worker nga nagapalamuti na ang tawo kag posible nga indi maayo ang pamatyag sini, nagrason si Nunes nga amo gid ina ang kinaandan sang tawo kag wala ini nagahambal.
Bangud sa kakulba, nagtawag ang staff sang pulis.
Natumod man ang tawo nga amo si Paulo Roberto Braga, 68-anyos, nga pila ka oras na nga napatay antes ini gindala sa sulod sang bangko.
Magapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon suno sa pulis kun sa diin igalakip ang rason sang kamatayon sini, kun matuod nga hinablos sini ang babaye, kag kun involved ang iban pa nga himata sa amo nga aktwasyon nga nagtuyo nga magkomiter sang fraud sa bangko.
Sa bahin ni Nunes, mahimo ini pasakaan sang kaso nga fraud, embezzlement, kag pag-abuso sa bangkay sang isa ka tawo.#
Osama Vin Laden, professional na nga football player sa Peru
ILOILO CITY- Kun mabatian mo ang pangalan nga OSAMA BIN LADEN, pat- ud nga una nga magasulod sa imo pinsar nga siya ang pinaka-notoryus nga terorista sa kalibutan.
Siya ang ginakahadlukan kag ginakaugtan bangud sa iya malain nga mga hinimuan sang una.
Apang, nakahibalo ka bala nga buhi siya kag nagahampang pa sang professional football?
Buhi… ang iya pangalan apang lain na nga tawo ang nagapanag-iya sini.
Siya amo ang 22-anyos nga si Osama Vin Laden, nga isa ka football player halin sa Peru.
Sikat siya indi lang bangud sa iya abilidad kundi bangud siempre sa iya pangalan.
Una nga nagtaas ang kilay sang mga tawo sang nabatian nila si Osama Vinladen Jimenez Lopez sang 2017, sang ginlawag siya bilang kabahin sang South American country’s U-15 (Under 15) team.
Naghimo siya sang iya debut para sa professional football club sang 2018, sang nangin kabahin siya sang club nga Union Comercio.
Sa pihak sang indi manami nga reputasyon sang iya kapangalan, wala man ini ginakabig nga problema ni Osama.
Para sa iya, indi ang pangalan ang makahatag sang kahulugan sang kabuhi sang isa ka tawo kundi ang iya mga maayo nga hinimuan.
Ari pa gid ang pinakamakakilibot, kay ang iya utod ang ginpangalanan nga si Saddam Hussein.
Singer, nangita sang ikaduha nga asawa para sa iya nga bana para mas makatutok sa iya karera
Sa masami, ang away sang magkarelasyon amo ang iban nga babaye ukon lalaki ukon ang third party sa ila nga relasyon.
Amo gani nga pinasahi gid ang ginhimo sang isa ka babaye sa Malaysia nga nagbulig pa sa pagpangita sang ikaduha nga misis para sa iya bana!
Ang rason sang babaye amo nga gusto sini nga makatutok sa iya nga karera bilang isa ka singer amo man sa iya nga personal development.
Ini amo si Azline Ariffin, 42, ukon si Ezlynn, nga popular bangud sa iya energetic kag avant-garde song nga Hi Hi Bye Bye sang 2003.
Apisar nga wala na ini sang bag-o nga mga kanta, sikat ini gihapon bangud aktibo sa Malaysian television.
Gin-ako sini nga siya kag ang iya 47-anyos nga bana ang nagkasugot sa polygamous marriage.
2021 sang sila ang ginkasal, samtang sang nagligad nga Marso, nagpakasal ang lalaki sa iya ikaduha nga misis nga 26-anyos nga doktor.
Ginpahayag pa ni Ezlynn nga iya mismo ideya nga mangita sang bag-o nga asawa ang iya bana para nga ang iya co-wife ang makaupod sa iya bana samtang nga masako naman ini sa iya nga karera.#
Lalaki, 238 ka beses nga nagpadalagan sa eleksyon
ILOILO CITY- Sa Pilipinas, madamo na kita sang mga kilala nga pulitiko nga pila ka beses na nga nag-intra sa eleksyon.
Apang, may nakilala ka na bala nga tawo nga masobra 200 na ka eleksyon ang iya gin- intrahan?
Padmarajan nga ginbansagan “Election King” kag “World’s Biggest Election Loser” matapos nagpartisipar ini sa 238 political elections.
Ang 65-anyos nga repairman halin sa Indian state sang Tamil Nadu ang nangin kandidato sa nagligad nga tatlo ka dekada kag naggasto man sang dako para sa registration fees.
Apang, sa amo kadamo niya nga pagkandidato sa eleksyon, wala gid ini nakatilaw sang kadalag-an.
Sa pihak sini, proud siya sa iya kaugalingon bangud sa pihak sang madamo nga kapaslawan, padayon siya nagauyat sa paglaum nga basi sa palaabuton, bisan makaisa lang, magaabot gid nga matilawan niya ang ginatawag nga kadalag-an.
Subong nga tuig gali, magapasakop naman siya sa election- ika 239 na ini.
Ang sa iya lang amo nga makahibalo siya nga magbaton sang kalutusan.
Pulis sa Thailand, nagtukod sang special unit vs.
Kun may makita kita nga amo, nagapundo gid kita agud nga mas mahimutadan ini, gina-istorya pa naton, kag ginahatagan sang pagkaon.
May ara sang isa ka daan nga syudad kun sa diin linibo ang mga amo, kag sa una nga paglantaw, daw kaangay nga sila na ya ang tag-iya sang lugar!
Didto ini sa Lopburi, Thailand kun sa diin simbolo na sang lokal nga kultura ang mga amo sa sulod sang malawig nga dinekada… tubtub nga nagsiling ang otoridad nga tuman na gid sila ka damo, kag mabudlay pa gid bangud naga-grupo grupo man sila kag naga-ilinaway.
Madamo na ang nasabaran sa sini nga mga sapat bangud indi lamang simple nga lumpat-lumpat ang ila ginahimo kundi nagapangagaw sang pagkaon, nagataklas sa mga shop, kag nagapamahog sang mga turista bangud sa ila ka-agresibo.
Madamo man ang naalarma bangud sang nagligad nga bulan, isa ka babaye ang nabalian sang tiil sang gin-atake sang amo agud agawon ang iya pagkaon; samtang isa naman ka lalaki ang nahulog sa iya motorsiklo bangud man sa gutom nga amo.
Malapit 3,000 ini nga mga sapat kag nagtimbuok pa ang ila populasyon sang tion sang pandemya.
Bangud sini nga problema, nagtukod ang pulis sang isa ka special unit.
Kun magkadto ikaw diri nga syudad, makit-an mo ang nagalinya nga mga pulis kag ang iban nagadalagan sa dalan samtang may dala nga tirador!
Apang depensa sang pulis, wala man sila nagagamit sang bato kun tiraduron nila ang mga sapat.
May yara man sang ranger ang Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation nga nagagamit sang tranquilliser gun agud nga maigu kag mapakalma ang agresibo nga amo kag isaylo ini sa temporary shelter.
Ginpanindugan sang department nga makatawo man ang ila nga paagi bangud gina-sedate lamang ang amo kag ginasaylo man sa lugar kun sa diin indi ini makadala sang pamahog sa mga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga ini nga mga macaques ang na-classify nga protected species sa idalom sang wildlife conservation law sang Thailand.#
Labing-una nga tawo nga nasayluhan sang kidney sang baboy, nakagwa na sa ospital
Malipayon kag puno sang paglaum nga nakapauli na sa ila kaugalingon nga puluy-an ang isa ka tawo nga amo ang labing-una nga recipient sang pig kidney transplant.
Ini amo si Rick Slayman, 62, nga ginpaguwa sa Massachusetts General Hospital duha ka semana matapos ang madinalag-on kag maragtason nga operasyon.
Suno pa sa ospital, maayo ang pag-recover ni Slayman kag padayon ini nga magapa-kondisyon sang iya nga lawas samtang ara sa ila nga balay.
Ang amo nga pasyente ang residente sang Weymouth, Massachusetts, nga na-diagnose anay nga may end-stage kidney disease.
Ang operasyon sa iya amo ang labing-una nga tion nga wala napalpak ang pig kidney transplant sa isa ka buhi nga tawo — isa ka milestone sa patag sang xenotransplantation ukon ang animal-to-human transplant.
Ginsaad sang ospital nga nagpasugot ang pasyente sa amo nga transplant, bangud una, limitado na ang iya nga medical options kag ikaduha, gusto man sini nga makadala sang paglaum sa linibo ka mga pasyente nga posible mabuligan paagi sa sini nga procedure.
Sa pagkamatuod, indi ini ang una nga kidney transplant kay Slayman — sang 2018, nakabaton man siya sang kidney halin sa isa ka tawo bangud sa iya nga diabetes kag high blood pressure.
Samtang nagadugay kag nag-lima na ka tuig, ang amo nga kidney ang nagpakita na sang sintomas nga nagahina na ini rason nga nagbalik ang pasyente sa dialysis sang 2023.
Ang kaso ni Slayman amo ang ikatatlo nga xenotransplant kun sa diin gingamit ang organ sang baboy kag ginsaylo sa tawo.
Ang nauna nga duha ka procedure ang naggamit sang korason sang baboy apang pareho nga napatay ang pasyente pila ka semana matapos nga nabaton ang organs.
Nahibaluan nga kada adlaw, 17 ka mga tawo ang nagakapatay sa US samtang nga nagahulat sang organ kun sa diin ang pinakakinahanglanon amo ang kidney.
Suno sa Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, ginabanta 27,000 kidneys ang na-transplant sang 2023, apang malapit 89,000 ang yara sa waitlist para sa amo nga organs.
Ginapatihan naman sang mga eksperto nga ang xenotransplantation ukon transplants halin sa sapat pakadto sa tawo amo ang kritikal nga parte sang pagsolbar sa kakulangan sang donor organs.#
114-anyos nga Lolo nga pinakatigulang nga tawo sa kalibutan, napatay na
Napatay na sa edad nga 114 ang isa ka Lolo sa Venezuela nga amo anay ang ginkilala sang Guinness World Records sang 2022 bilang pinakatigulang nga tawo nga nagakabuhi sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ini amo si Juan Vicente Perez Mora nga ang kamatayon ang gin-anunsyo mismo ni Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro.
Pebrero 4, 2022 sang ginkumpirma sang Guinnness nga ini ang pinakatigulang sa tanan nga tawo sang nagaedad pa lamang ini sang 112 ka tuig kag 253 dias.
Onse ang iya kabataan kag may 41 ka mga apo, 18 ka apo sa tuhod, kag 12 ka great-great-grandchildren.
Kilala man siya bilang isa ka mangunguma nga ginatawag nga si “Tio Vicente”.
Nabun-ag siya sa El Cobre sa Andean state sang Tachira sang Mayo 27, 1909 kun sa diin nagapangsiyam ini sa 10 ka mag-ulutod.
Sa edad nga lima ka tuig, nagsugod na ini sa pagbulig sa iya amay kag mga utod sa pagpanguma partikular na sa pagtapas sang tubo kag pag-harvest sang kape.
Nangin kilala pa ini sa patag sang agrikultura bangud nangin sheriff ini kag gintungdan ang responsibilidad sa pagsolbar sa problema sa duta kag problema sa maghimata.#
ILOILO CITY- Adlaw-adlaw, kabahin na sang kabuhi naton ang pagkaon sang kan-un.
Ang iban, indi gid kompleto ang isa ka adlaw kun indi makakaon sang manamit kag mainit nga tinig-ang.
Apang, kun paano ini gina-enjoy sang kalabanan, ini naman ang nagahatag sang kahadlok sa isa ka babaye didto sa may Massachussets.
Siya amo si Caroline Cray, 24, nga may yara sang rare chronic illness nga nagresulta kun ngaa allergic ini sa halos tanan nga butang bisan pa ang pagkaon kaangay sang tinapay kag kan-on.
Suno kay Caroline, ang iya nalang ginakaon amo ang ginrekomendar sang doktor- gatas para sa bata kag oatmeal.
Sa pagkamatuod, apisar updanay sila sang iya pamilya sa panyapon, haloson man ini mag-enjoy bangud nga halos bawal sa iya ang ginakaon sang iya pamilya kaangay sang isda, peanuts, sesame, kiwis kag mustard.
Ang ano man nga pagkaon ang posible mangin last supper niya kun indi siya maghalong.
Bisan sa paglagaw, may dala gid ini nga kaugalingon nga balon agud kun abuton siya sang kagutom, may yara ini sang sarang makaon nga safe para kaunon niya.
Sa masami, ginatulok siya sang mga tawo ilabi na kun yara ini sa mga restaurants kag cafe bangud may yara siya sang balunan nga ginasudlan sang iya pagkaon.
Panit sang tawo nga ginhimo nga cover sang 19th-century book, ginkakas sang Harvard
Masarangan mo bala mag-uyat sang bagay nga human sa panit sang iban… nga halimbawa abi… human sa panit sang tawo?
Sang damlag lang, madamo gid ang interesado sa nangin anunsyo sang Harvard University nga ginkakas sini ang panit sang tawo nga amo nga cover sang isa ka 19th century nga libro nahanungod sa afterlife.
Ini nga libro ang yara na sa ila nga koleksyon halin pa sang 1930s.
Ang desisyon sang unibersidad ang kasunod sang review nga ginpatigayon kun sa diin may ethical concerns sa maragtas sang amo nga libro.
Ini nga libro nga ginatawag “Des Destinées de L’âme,” ukon “Destinies of the Soul,” ang ginsulat sang French novelist kag poet nga si Arsène Houssaye 1880s.
Ang printed text sini ang ginhatag sa doktor nga si Ludovic Bouland nga amo ang nag-bind sang libro gamit ang panit nga iya ginkuha halin sa bangkay sang isa ka babaye nga pasyente.
Ginpahayag nga wala ini sang permiso nga kuhaon ang panit sa pasyente sa ospital kun sa diin siya nag-trabaho.
Nalakip pa didto ang sulat sang doktor sa sulod sang libro kun sa diin iya ginsiling nga ang libro nga nahanungod sa kalag sang tawo ang nagakaangay man nga butangan sang cover sang iya sang tawo.
Didto pa nakabutang sa note ang proseso kun paano sini ginpreprar ang panit para sa binding.
May ginhimo nga scientific analysis sang 2014 nga nagakumpirma nga human skin matuod ang cover sang amo nga libro!
Suno sa Houghton Library associate librarian, ang ginkakas nga panit ang natago subong sa storage sang library sa Harvard.
Magapatigayon man ang Harvard sang dugang nga research sa libro, sa doktor, kag sa babaye nga pasyente nga amo ang ginkuhaan sang panit.
Nagapakig-angot man ang unibersidad sa French authorities agud nga matumod ang “final respectful disposition” sa amo nga human skin.#
Senior citizen sa Pampanga, nagpalansang sa Krus sa ika-35 na nga tion
Nag-agaw sang atensyon sang publiko ang istorya sang isa ka 63-anyos nga tigulang sa Pampanga nga 35 ka beses na nga nagpalansang sa Krus bilang reenactment sa sakripisyo ni Hesukristo sa adlaw sang Iya kamatayon.
Ini amo si Ruben Enaje, isa ka panday kag sign painter, kag residente sang Barangay San Pedro Cutud sa City of San Fernando.
Apisar isa na ka senior citizen, ginpas-an sini ang 14 ka tapak nga krus sa Pampanga kadungan sang Byernes Santo.
Bangud naman sa iya edad, manubo na lamang sa 20 kilo ang kabug-aton sang krus — indi kaangay sa 37 kilo nga iya nadala sang mas mapagros pa ang iya lawas sang una.
Para kay Enaje, ang iya ginahimo sa kada Semana Santa amo ang iya paagi agud pasalamatan ang Diyos sa iya paglampuwas sa isa ka aksidente sang 1980s.
“Siguro Siya ang gumawa ng aksidente na ‘yun.
Kahit na sabihin na natin na aksidente, talagang hindi pa rin Niya ako pinabayaan.
Sinalo pa rin Niya ako doon sa pagkahulog ko.
‘Yun ang naging siguro simbulo na gaganap ako bilang Kristo,” pahayag ni Enaje nga nagatumod sa iya papel bilang si Hesus sa Lenten reenactment sang Way of the Cross.
Ginklaro man sini nga wala nila ini ginahimo sa atubang sang Kapampangans agud lamang nga magpadayaw-dayaw.
“Ito ay isang tradisyon namin na ginagawa kapag may hinihingi sa ating mahal na Panginoon.
Dadaan muna tayo sa paghihirap para makamit natin ‘yung mga minimithi.
Hindi po biro-biro ang ginagawa namin kaya respetuhin po naman ninyo kami sa aming ginagawa.
Lalo na ‘yung mga kabataan ngayon, sinasabi na kaya din namin ‘yan pero kapag aktwal na, talagang bibigay sila,” dugang sini.
Ang iya pagpalansang sa Krus subong nga tuig ang ginhimo niya agud magpangayo sang pag-isa sa Pilipinas.
“Marami nang hindi magagandang nangyayari ngayon sa ating bansa.
Ipagdarasal ko ‘yan na sana magkaisa tayo, maging mabuti sa susunod na taon ang ating bansa.”
Ginpahayag man sini nga antes ang Semana Santa, ginkonsiderar man sini nga untaton na niya ini nga tradisyon bangud sa iya edad apang wala gid ini napaiway bangud indi man sini mabalibaran ang hingyo sang iya mga kabaranggay nga magpangamuyo siya para sa ila nagabalatian nga mga himata.
Nagapati man si Enaje nga mas madamo siya sang dapat pangamuyuan sa sining tion kun sa diin may gyera kag ilinaway nga nakatabo sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang kalibutan.#
Army veteran nga nag-ilis sa pangalan nga “Literally Anybody Else”, nag-anunsyo sang kandidatura sa pagka-presidente sa US
Talagsa ka lang makakita sang tawo nga maisog nga magbunggo sa ginakabig pinaka-popular kag pinamaimpluwensya nga mga persona sa iya nga palibot!
Ilabi na kun ang gina-istoryahan amo ang mga presidente, pat-od nga daw makurog ang imo tuhod kag ang imo kaunuran!
Apang lain ang sitwasyon para sa isa ka tawo sa Texas sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga sa sobra niya ka dismayado bangud sa rematch nanday US President Joe Biden kag anay US President Donald Trump sa presidential elections subong nga tuig, naghanda man ini sang iya kaugalingon agud makasumpong ang duha!
Ini amo si 35 anyos nga si Dustin Ebey, isa ka Grade 7 math teacher kag isa man ka army veteran.
Nakahibalo ka bala kun ano ang iya una nga ginhimo?
Una, gin-islan niya ang iya pangalan — as in legal sini nga gin-islan ang iya pangalan — kag ginhimo ini nga “Literally Anybody Else.”
Suno kay Dustin, nakahibalo siya nga indi mahapos ang iya agyan, apang amo siya sini kahanda nga himuon ang iya kaugalingon nga “option” agud may pilian ang iban nga tawo nga indi na gusto magboto kanday Biden kag Trump!
Ginsiling man sini nga indi siya delusional kag nakahibalo man siya nga indi imposible ang iya ginahimo.
Medyo imposible gid man ang kinahanglan nga agyan ni Dustin base sa statistics bangud nga kinahanglan sini nga makatipon sang 113,151 signatures halin sa non-primary voters agud nga mabutang ang iya nga pangalan sa balota bilang isa ka independent candidate.
Pananglitan mahimo gid man niya ini, kinahanglan niya ini ipasa antes ukon mismo sa May 13, 2024.
Kun indi naman mahimo, mahimo siya maka-apply bilang write-in candidate sa Texas kag iban nga U.S.
Nagaguwa ugaling nga ang iya tuyo sa pagpadalagan ang isa ka sahi sang protesta, kag wala man sang tuyo nga magdaog.
Para kay Dustin, ginapanan-aw na sini nga botohon lamang abi sang tawo kun sin-o ang daw indi tuman ka lain sa tunga sang duha ka presidente, bangud wala man sila sang choice kun sin-o gid kuntani ang ila gusto nga suportahan.
Sa pagkamatuod, wala nagaisahanon si Dustin nga nagaprotesta batok sa Trump-Biden rematch sa eleksyon subong nga tuig.
Sang Enero, may yara sang survey result nga ginpaguwa nga 70% ang nagasiling nga indi na dapat magpa-eleher pa liwat si Biden samtang 56% naman ang nagasiling nga indi man deserving si Trump nga magpa-eleher pa liwat sa amo nga posisyon.
Lalaki, may tumalagsahon nga kondisyon kun sa diin ang panulok niya sa mga tawo “daw demonyo”
ILOILO CITY- Panumduma kun isa ka adlaw, nagbugtaw ka na lang nga ang nawong sang mga tawo sa imo palibot daw iya sang demonyo!
Amo ina ang naeksperyensiyahan sang isa ka lalaki sa Tennessee sa Amerika nga isa ka adlaw, nagbugtaw nalang siya nga ang panulukan niya sa mga tawo sa iya palibot daw mga demonyo nga ang dulunggan, ilong, kag baba ang nagahitad kag ang panit sa nawong ang may kihad-kihad.
Ini am si Victor Sharrah, 59 anyos nga humalin sang Nobyembre 2020, nagbag-o na ang iya kabuhi.
Sang amo nga adlaw, sa iya pagbugtaw, ang panulok niya sa iya roommate, demonyo, paggwa niya sa kwarto, ang panulok niya sa iban nga upod sa ginaistaran nga apartment, puro demonyo.
Sa iya pagdumdom, nadula na siya sa iya husto nga paminsaron.
Didto na ini nagdesisyon nga magpalantaw sa doktor.
Kag siya ang na- diagnose nga may prosopometamorphopsia ukon PMO nga isa ka rare neurological disorder nga ginahimo sini ang nawong sang mga tawo nga mala-demonyo apisar normal man sila sa panulukan sang iban nga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga tubtob subong, wala pa mahibaluan sang mga siyentipiko kun ano gid ang kabangdanan sang amo nga sahi sang kondisyon.
‘Pinakakitid nga balay’ sa kalibutan, gintukod agud lamang magbalos sa kasilingan nga ginakaugtan
Ano ang himuon mo kun nainit ikaw sa isa ka tawo kag gusto mo gid magbalos sa iya ginhimo sa imo?
Kun kis-a, pwede mo nga i-block, i-iunfollow, ukon i-unfriend sa Facebook, ukon pwede man nga indi mo na lang pagbugnuhon forever!
Pero may ara nga tawo nga bangud sa iya kaugot, nagpatindog ini sang balay nga subong makabig na nga record-holder sa bilog nga kalibutan!
Indi ini basta-basta nga balay, bangud ang rason… gusto lang sini nga matabunan ang manami nga view sang iya kasilingan nga iya ginakaugtan!
Kilala ini nga Casa du Currivu ukon ang ‘House of Spite’ — isa ka pinasahi nga building nga nagauyat sang unofficial title nga pinaka-kitid nga balay sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Duha ini ka panalgan kag yara lamang sa tatlo ka tapak ang iya nga kalapadon nga daw haluson gani makasugat-anay ang duha ka mga tawo kag sigurado nga indi gid maistaran!
1950s sang gintukod ini bangud sa away sang magkasilingan.
Indi pa uso sadto ang duha ka panalgan nga mga balay, apang para mahimo ina, kinahanglan nga may pahanugot halin sa tupad-balay.
Sa sini nga kaso, wala nagpasugot ang tupad-balay sang tag-iya sang Casa du Currivu gani nagdesisyon na lang siya nga magbalos.
Nagpatukod ini sang second floor apang nag-distansya lang gamay sa iya tupad balay para indi na siya mangayo sang permiso, apang sigurado siya nga kun maglaaw sa bintana ang iya kasilingan, wala ini sang iban nga makit-an kundi ang iya manipis nga balay nga gintukod.
Wala man sang iban nga pulos ang amo nga balay bangud indi man ini maistaran.
Magluwas sa bintana kag hagdan, wala na ini sang sulod… bangud sa liwat, gintukod lang ini agud mag-init ang ulo sang iya tupad balay.
Sa subong, isa ini sa pinakabantog nga building sa Sicily, kag makabig pa nga main-attraction rason sang pagbalik-balik sang mga tawo sa amo nga komunidad sa Petralia Sottana.#
Mag- abyan, nagsugtanay nga ipautod ang magtimbang nga paa sang isa sa ila para sa milyones nga insurance claim
ILOILO CITY- Ano ang sarang mo himuon sa ngalan sang inyo pag-abyanay?
Masarangan mo bala nga may madula nga parte sang imo lawas?
Kun sabat mo indi… may kilala ako nga pat-ud nga ang sabat niya huo…sa pagkamatuod, nahimo na nila gani nga mag-abyan.
Ini amo sanday Chang kag Liao nga taga- Taiwan.
Isa ka adlaw, nanumdom si Chang kun paano makakwarta bangud kinahanglan gid niya.
Didto nagsulod sa iya pinsar ang butang nga daw ka -imposible apang sa tawo nga wala kwarta, posible.
Kag agud matigayon ini, ginplano nila ini nga mag-abyan kag ang katumanan sang ila plano, i- istorya ko.
Naglagaw sila sa matugnaw nga lugar sa Taepei kag pagbalik, ginpahuluman ni Chang ang iya tiil sa ice sa sulod sang 10 ka oras agud magtig-a kag pagwaon nga nafrostbite ini bangud sa paglagaw sa matugnaw nga lugar kag nagalaum sila nga makakuha sang $1.29 million.
Gindala siya ni Liao sa ospital kag didto na nagdesisyon ang doktor nga utdon ang duha niya ka paa.
Siempre, ginbayaran siya sang insurance company sang dako man nga kantidad tubtob nga nagduda ang otoridad sa ila kag sang gin- imbestigaran, didto na nadiskubrehan, nga gin-peke lang nila ang natabo bisan pa nga nagresulta gid ini sa pagkautod sang mga paa ni Chang.
Natukiban sang prosecutors nga si Chang ang nagapangatubang sang serious financial problems.
Sang Marso 14, pareho nga ginkasuhan sang fraud ang duha apang may dugang si Liao nga kaso bangud sa iya kahilabtanan sa pagpautod sang paa sang iya abyan.
Mga ilaga, nagaka-‘high’ bangud sa pag-it-it sang marijuana sa police building
Naga-ugtas ang mga pulis didto sa New Orleans, Louisiana, USA bangud makumpiska matuod nila ang marijuana kun ara sa guwa, apang may ara gid sila nga indi mapunggan nga makonsumo ini kun ara na sa sulod sang evidence room!
Ang problema sang otoridad indi amo ang police officers nga abi mo adik sa droga, kundi ang mga ilaga nga amo ang pakadto-pakari sa building kag makasarang magtultol sang mga marijuana nga ginagamit sang mga pulis bilang ebidensya sa mga kaso.
Ginpahayag pa sang hepe nga si Anne Kirkpatrick sa city council meeting nga nakit-an nila nga nagaka-“high” pa ang mga ilaga bangud sa pag-it-it sang marijuana — butang nga indi kahalam-utan kundi makailinit para sa ila.
Problemado sila suno sa hepe bangud posible maapektuhan sang ilaga ang mga kaso-kriminal nga naangot sa marijuana.
Nahibaluan nga lakip man sa ginplastar sini sa criminal justice committee sang amo nga syudad amo nga indi na maayo para sa ila trabaho ang building nga ila nahamtangan nga natukod pa sadtong 1968.
Magluwas sa problema sa ilaga kag sa ila higko, lakip man sa ulugtasan suno sa iya amo ang mga tanga kag ang problema sa maintenance kaangay sang guba nga elevator kag wala nagagana nga plumbing kag amo man ang air conditioning system nga nag-collapse sang nagligad pa nga summer.
Duha ka kawatan, nagkuyampad matapos gulpi naghambal ang tag-iya sang balay nga live gali nga naga-monitor sa CCTV
Nagkuyampad kag halos indi makahibalo kun sa diin makadto ang duha ka kawatan matapos sila nakibot sang naghambal sa closed-circuit television (CCTV) nga amo gali ang tag-iya sang balay kag live sila nga ginalantaw sa ila tuyo nga magpangawat!
Natabo ini sa Naga City, Camarines Sur sang ginsulod sang duha ka lalaki ang isa ka daku nga balay pasado ‘las kuatro sa kaagahon.
Pagkasulod sang duha ka lalaki, nakit-an gilayon nila ang camera gani nag-uba ang isa sang isa nga bayo kag gingamit ini agud tabunan ang nawong.
Naka-hoodie naman ang isa ka upod sini nga amo ang nagsaka sa second floor kag ginpatay pa sini ang suga.
Samtang naga-flashlight ang isa ka kriminal sa sala kag nagapangita sang pwede matakab, baw, may naghambal sa CCTV rason nga daw diutayan lang ini ma-heart attack!
Pila pa ka segundos ang nagligad sang nareyalisar sini nga tag-iya sang balay ang naghambal rason nga gintawag sini ang kaupod kag nagdalagan pa-guwa.
Isa ka combat engineer sang militar sa Amerika ang lalaki nga nabatian sa CCTV kag na-access sini ang surveillance camera sa bulig sang internet.
Natukiban sang ulihi nga ginguba sang duha ka lalaki ang padlock rason nga nakasulod sila sa balay.
Wala sila sang nabitbit nga bisan ano nga gamit.
Mas ginpahugot naman sang barangay ang ila nga seguridad batok sa mga kawatan kag nagpahanumdom naman ang pulis sa mga pumuluyo nga mag-aligmat gid ilabi na kun may makaduluda nga tawo sa palibot.#
Kidney sang baboy, ginsaylo sa isa ka buhi nga pasyente sa labing-una nga tion
Nagmadinalag-on ang mga doktor sa Massachusetts General Hospital sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga isaylo ang kidney sang baboy sa isa ka tawo.
Ang pasyente amo si Rick Slayman, 62, residente sang Weymouth, Massachusetts, nga na-diagnose nga may end-stage kidney disease.
Makabig man ini nga kabahin na sang maragtas bangud ini ang labing-una nga tion nga wala napalpak ang pig kidney transplant sa isa ka buhi nga tawo — isa ka milestone sa patag sang xenotransplantation ukon ang animal-to-human transplant.
Kasunod naman sang iya pag-angkon sang kidney sang baboy, gin-report sang ospital nga nakalakat na ang pasyente sang 20-laps sa transplant unit sang ospital kag posible nga makaguwa na sa pasilidad sa masunod nga inadlaw.
Babaye nga kawatan, todo-stretching anay antes ginsulod ang isa ka bakery
Nahimo nga kahalam-utan sa mata sang publiko ang isa ka babaye nga todo gid ang stretching kag yoga exercise antes sini ginsulod ang isa ka bakery kag ginkawatan.
Didto ini sa Philippa’s Bakery headquarters sa Melbourne, Australia kun sa diin kit-anon gid sa surveillance camera ang ginhimo sang babaye nga kriminal.
Lunsay itom ang suksok sini pati na ang iya nga sapatos.
Halos duha ka minutos ang ginlawig sang iya nga stretching sang ‘las tres sa kaagahon antes sini dalayon na nga ginsulod ang establisyemento.
Suno sa bakery nga involved sa insidente, lakip sa ginkuha sang babaye amo ang almond croissant, isa ka pares sang sapatos, iPad, kag mga produkto nga ginagamit sa pagpaninlo.
Gin-report man sang outlet nga ginkasuhan ini sang theft kag burglary apang nakaguwa man matapos nakapyansa.
Natalana ini nga mag-atubang sa Melbourne Magistrates’ Court sa Mayo 22.#
Pilipinas, ikaduha nga pinakamalipayon nga pungsod sa Southeast Asia
Nagapangaduha ang Pilipinas sa pinakamalipayon nga mga pungsod sa Southeast Asia.
Base ini sa “2024 World Happiness Report” nga gin-edit ni Professor Jan-Emmanuel De Neve, isa ka expert sang economics kag behavioral science sa University of Oxford kun sa diin ang resulta ang ginbalhag sang nagligad nga Marso 20.
Sa amo nga report, ang Singapore ang nakakuha sang pinakamataas nga puwesto sa Southeast Asia region.
Nagapang-53 naman ang Pilipinas sa bilog nga kalibutan nga mas mataas ipaanggid sa ika-76 nga nakuha sang nagligad nga 2023.
‘Generally happy’ ang paglaragway sang mga Pinoy sang ginhingyo nga i-rate ang ila kabuhi sa scale sang 1-10.
Ang average score sang kada pungsod ang na-calculate base sa ratings sa sulod sang nagligad nga tatlo ka tuig.
Ginbase ang report sa self-reported data halin sa mga tawo nga na-survey sa kada pungsod.
Yari naman ang ranking sa iban nga pungsod sa Southeast Asia: Vietnam (54th); Thailand (58th); Malaysia (59th); Indonesia (80th); Laos (94th); Myanmar (118th); kag Cambodia (119th).
Nagpang-60 naman ang China, pang-51 ang Japan, kag pang-52 ang South Korea.
Yari naman ang Top 10: Finland, Denmark, Iceland, Sweden, Israel, The Netherlands, Norway, Luxembourg, Switzerland, kag Australia.Ang Finland nga puluy-an sang 5.5 million nga mga tawo amo ang gina-report nga “happiest” country sa nagligad pa nga pito ka tuig.
Sandig pa sa amo nga report, ang 10 ka mga pungsod sa pinakaidalom sang ranking amo ang: Yemen, Zambia, Eswatini, Malawi, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Congo, Sierra Leone, Lebanon kag Afghanistan.#
Asawa nga ginbulagan sang iya bana, nanukot sang iya 26 ka tuig nga serbisyo
ILOILO CITY- Ka-Bombo, halimbawa, kun ikaw asawa nga ginbulagan sang imo bana, masulod man sa imo pinsar nga sukton siya sang tinuig nga pagserbisyo nimo sa iya kag sa inyo pamilya?
Base sa sini nga balita, makabinag- binag ka.
Didto sa Pontevedra, may isa ka asawa nga ginsukot ang iya bana sang minilyon ka pesos matapos nga ginbulagan siya sang lalaki.
Ang mag-asawa nagpakasal sang 1996 kag nagbulagay sila sang 2022.
Matapos sila nagbulagay, nagpabilin sa ila balay ang lalaki apang nagbiya naman ang babaye.
Bangud wala ini sang kwarta sa rason nga wala man ini sang trabaho bangud nga sa sulod sang 26 ka tuig nila nga pag-asawahay, wala ini ginpasugtan sang lalaki nga magtrabaho ini kag dapat nga magtutok ini sa iya responsibilidad bilang asawa kag anak sa ila nagaisahanon nga bata,didto na nagdesisyon ang asawa nga mag-demand sang bayad gikan sa iya bana kag gindangop niya ini sa korte.
Base sa inisyal nga ruling, gin-set sang korte nga bayaran sang lalaki ang babaye sang P6.5 million apang nag-ayo ang bana nga panubuan ini kag nagpasugot man ang korte gani sa baylo nga 6.5 million, ginhimo ini nga 4.5 million.
Magluwas diri, kinahanglan man nga maghatag ang bana sang 19,000 kada bulan sa iya anay asawa sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig.
Pero, basi gapamangkot kamo kun diin ini nga Pontevedra…didto ini sa Espanya.
Tatlo ka solterito nga nagpalagyo sa Bahay Kalinga, nagmato-mato man sa pagbalik
Ini man ang ginhimo sang tatlo ka teenagers nga napaidalom sa pagtatap sang Municipal Social Welfare Development (MSWD) sa Alfonso, Cavite kun sa diin inoras matapos nakapalagyo sa talatapan, mato-mato man sila nga nagbalik.
Suno sa hepe sang Alfonso Municipal Police Station nga si P/Major Raymond Balbuena, naga-edad sang 15,16, kag 17-anyos ang tatlo, lunsay mga lalaki, kag ginakabig nga Children in Conflict with the Law.
Lunsay man sila na-involve sa kaso nga carnapping nga natabo sang nagligad nga Marso 10 sa amo man nga banwa.
Sandig sa imbestigasyon sang pulis, nakakita ang kabataan sang buho sa building sang social welfare office kag didto sila nangita sang paagi agud nga makalusot kag makapalagyo halin sa Bahay Kalinga.
Nag-report naman sa pulis ang iloy sang isa sa mga bata nga ‘las tres y medya sa kaagahon sang may nagpanuktok sa ila nga balay.
Amo na lang ang iya kakibot nga yara sa atubang sang puwertahan ang iya bata kag ang duha sini ka kaupdanan.
Wala sini ginpaathag sa iya iloy kun paano sila nakahalin sa pasilidad, apang ginkuha sini ang iya nga cellphone, nagkuha man sang P2,000 sa kahita sang iya nga iloy, kag naglakat man sila gilayon.
Pahayag naman sang hepe, posible nga may ginkadtuan lang ang tatlo ukon may ginlagawan.
Sandig sa report, 12:00 sa kagab-ihon sila nakahalin sa talatapan kag 10:00 sa aga sang nagbalik liwat.
Agud indi na masulit ang hitabo, ginlantaw sang MSWDO kun ano ang kinahanglan nga kay-uhon sa ila nga building kag ginsiradhan na ang tanan nga buho nga posible lutsan sang Children In Conflict of the Law.#
Lalaki nga nagataas lamang sang tatlo ka tapak, isa na ka doktor
May isa na naman ka buhi nga pamatuod nga masarangan mo gid malab-ot ang imo handum bisan ano man ang imo itsura kag kondisyon — basta bastante lang ikaw sa determinasyon!
Ini amo ang 23-anyos nga si Ganesh Baraiya, tumandok sang India, nga nagataas lamang sang tatlo ka tapak… apang naga-trabaho bilang isa ka doktor!
Halin sang apat ka tuig pa lamang ang iya edad tubtub natubuan sang buot, nagpangatubang si Ganesh kag ang iya nga pamilya sang diskriminasyon halin sa mga tawo sa palibot.
May ara pa gani sang tion nga gintanyagan ang iya amay sang kuwarta agud nga mapa-trabaho si Ganesh bilang isa ka clown rason nga naglalain gid sila kag gin-updan na lang ang bata bisan diin ini magkadto bangud sa kakulba nga ikidnap ini sang iban kag pwersahon nga mag-trabaho kag himuon nga kalingawan.
Bisan sa eskwelahan, indi madula ang pagpakanubo—bisan ano pa ka ambisyoso kag ano pa ka taas ang grades sang bata.
Maayo ang resulta sang iya test apang ginbasura sang Medical Council of India ang iya aplikasyon bangud nagapati sila nga indi sini masarangan ang iya trabaho pananglitan may mga emerhensya sa ospital.
Sa bulig sang school principal, nagkadto pa gid siya sa District Collector nga amo anay ang state Education Minister kag ginpasaka pa gid ang reklamo sa Gujarat High Court.
Wala nagmadinalag-on ang iya mga gusto, tubtub nga nakalab-ot sa Supreme Court sang India ang iya kaso, kag finally, nahatagan siya sang hustisya!
Nag-desisyon ang korte nga may kinamatarong si Ganesh nga mag-enrol sa Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery degree — butang nga wala na sini ginpalampas, nagtutom sa pag-eskwela sa Government Medical College sa Bhavnagar, kag subong isa na ka intern sa Sir-T Hospital sa Bhavnagar.
Bisan sa trabaho, may mga pasyente nga nagapakanubo sa estado ni Ganesh apang wala ini nagapaapekto kag ginahimo na lamang sang maayo ang iya nga obligasyon.
Wala pa ginkilala sang Guinness Book of Records si Ganesh, apang ginabansagan ini sang iban nga ‘world’s shortest doctor’ — butang nga wala sini ginakahuya bangud isa ini ka representasyon kun ano ka budlay ang iya gin-agyan agud lamang malab-ot ang iya mga handum.
Anay soldado nga inventor sang karaoke machine, napatay na sa edad nga 100
Nagtaliwan na si Shigeichi Negishi, ang 100-anyos nga Japanese inventor sang labing-una nga commercially-available nga karaoke machine.
Ang iya produkto nga “Sparko Box” ang una nga nag-abot sa market sang 1967 kag ginakilala sang All-Japan Karaoke Industrialist Association nga pinakauna nga karaoke machine sa kalibutan.
Lakip man siya sa lima ka Japanese inventors nga independent nga naghimo sang karaoke machines halin sang 1967 tubtub sang 1971.
Magluwas diri, kilala man siya nga founder sang isa ka kumpaniya nga naga-assemble sang consumer electronics kaangay sang transistor radios.
Sang 1967, naisipan sini ang ideya sa pag-wire sa microphone, speaker kag tape deck kag pagpatukar sang instrumental recording sang isa ka kanta.
Bangud may nakit-an nga commercial potential sa device, ginbutang ni Negishi ang ginabanta 8,000 ka Sparko Boxes sa nagkalain-lain nga lokasyon sa Japan lakip na sa restaurants.
Indi pa ini tuman ka uso sang una rason nga nagguwa man ini sa iya nga karaoke business sang 1975.
Naglain naman ang dalagan sang negosyo sang nag-invest na ang major manufacturers, nakilala ang karaoke, kag nahimo na nga kalingawan pati sa iban nga mga pungsod.
Apisar nga si Negishi ang una nga naghimo sang karaoke machine, masami gid nga gina-attribute sang mga tawo ang invention sang karaoke sa nightclub musician nga si Daisuke Inoue nga independent man nga naghimo sang iya kaugalingon nga karaoke machine sang 1971.
Nabun-ag si Negishi sa Tokyo sang Nobyembre 1923 kag nagtuon sang economics sa Hosei University sa amo man nga syudad.
Nangin kabahin sang Japanese Army sang tion sang World War II kag napreso sa sulod sang duha ka tuig sa prison camp matapos ang kalutusan sang Japan sa kamot sang Singapore.
Nakaguwa siya sang 1947 kag ang iya karera naman sa electronics industry ang nakilala man kadungan sang iya nga post-war business boom sa Japan.
Sang nag-retiro siya sa edad nga 70, nagtutok siya sa iya nga hobbies — basket-making, sculpting kag syempre, karaoke singing.
‘Pinoy Aquaman’, maga-set sang open water swim record sa Capiz subong nga adlaw
Natalana nga maghimo sang rekord ang ginbansagan nga “Pinoy Aquaman” nga si Ingemar Macarine kun magmadinalag-on ini sa 10-kilometer open water swim sa Roxas City, Capiz subong nga adlaw, Marso 16.
Maga-umpisa ini 5:00 sa kaagahon halin sa Olotayan Island padulong sa People’s Park sa Barangay Baybay, Roxas City.
Pananglitan mahimo niya ini, magasaka pa ang iya rekord sa 38 open water swims diri sa Pilipinas kag mangin sa luwas sang pungsod — butang nga wala pa nahimo sang bisan sin-o nga Pinoy.
Daku man ini nga bagay sa iya bangud ini amo ang iya mangin labing-una nga open water swim sa sulod sang isa ka tuig nga nangin inactive siya bangud sa problema sa ikaayong lawas.
Sa latest post sang Filipino swimmer, ginpahayag sini nga wala na sang nagakatabo nga asthma attacks apisar sang iya training apang ang ginakabalak-an sini amo ang wind forecast kag ang mga jellyfish.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang himuon sini subong nga adlaw ang isa man ka paagi agud nga ma-promote ang matinlo nga kadagatan — kaangay man sa iya nga advocacy sa nauna sini nga mga paglangoy.
Magluwas diri, gina-promote man sini ang turismo kag ang healthy lifestyle.
Si Macarine ang nagatrabaho man bilang Provincial Prosecutor sa Bohol.
Hunyo 2023 sang nangin nangin madinalag-on man ang open water swim sini sa Masbate kun sa diin nakumpleto sini ang 10-kilometros sa sulod sang apat ka oras, 22 minutos, kag 38 segundos.#
Pangalan ni Messi, nangin paagi agud maluwas ang Lola sa kamot sang Hamas militant
Makatalandog-balatyagon ang panawagan sang isa ka Lola nga naggamit sang pangalan sang Argentine football superstar nga si Lionel Messi agud nga makaluwas sa isa ka daku nga katalagman.
Istorya ini sang 90-anyos nga si Ester Cunio nga nagapuyo didto sa Israeli Kibbutz nga Nir Oz.
Sang Oktubre 7, 2023 ukon ang adlaw nga nag-atake ang Hamas sa southern Israel kag nagpangdala sang mga bihag, isa ang balay ni Ester sa mga ginsulod sang armado nga kalalakinhan.
Sang amo nga adlaw, ginpamangkot ang Lola kun sa diin ang iban nga myembro sang iya pamilya apang indi ini makasabat sang maayo sa Hebrew ukon mangin sa English.
Ginsilingan sini ang lalaki nga ang ginagamit gid sini nga lengguwahe amo ang Argentinian-Spanish bangud tumandok siya sang Argentina kag tigulang na sang nagsaylo sa Israel.
Daw nagapanginit na ang lalaki, agresibo, kag nagpamangkot sa Lola kun ano ina ang Argentinian!
Nagsabat si Lola: “Nagalantaw ka bala sang football?” Sang nagtango ang lalaki, nagsiling si Lola: “Didto ako halin sa lugar ni Messi!”
Nakibot ang tawo kag naglain ang trato sini sa Lola kag ginsiling pa sini nga idol sini ang amo nga footballer gani iya gin-agbayan ang tigulang, ginpa-uyatan ang iya nga AKA47 gun, nag-peace sign, kag nagpa-picture pa.
Nakaluwas ang Lola apang ang masakit nga bahin sang istorya sang Lola amo ang panawagan sini kay Messi.
Pahayag sini, kun malantaw sang football star ang iya istorya, kuntani manawagan ini nga mahilway na sang Hamas ang mga hostages.
Didto nalakip sa mga bihag ang iya duha ka apo nga sanday David kag Ariel nga nalakip sa gin-abduct sang Hamas militants sang amo nga adlaw sang 2023.
Ginahulat pa ang mangin sabat sang world champion sa sini nga panawagan sang tigulang ilabi na bangud ginsuportahan man sini anay ang 2014 match nga gin-organisar ni Pope Francis agud nga matib-ong ang kalinong sa tunga sang Israelis kag Palestinians.#
Australian billionaire, magapatukod sang replica sang barko nga Titanic
Masobra isa ka siglo na ang nagligad halin sang natabo ang Titanic tragedy kun sa diin masobra 1,500 ang napatay kag yara lamang sa 700 ang nakaluwas.
Sa pihak sini, halos tanan ilabi na ang researchers kag historians ang nagabalik-balik sa sini nga istorya nga daw kaangay nga daw yara gid sila nagakabuhi sang tuig 1912.
Sa Australia, may yara sang isa ka bilyonaryo nga nag-anunsyo nga buhion sini ang iya handum nga makatukod sang replica sang Titanic kag natalana man ini nga maglayag sa kaangay nga ruta sang iconic nga barko sa Hunyo 2027.
Una nga naanunsyo sang 69-anyos nga billionaire nga si Clive Palmer ang iya plano sang 2012 apang wala ini nadayon.
Ginlunsar ini liwat sang 2018 kag malayag na kuntani sang 2022 apang na-delay liwat bangud sa COVID-19 pandemic.
Ini nga replica ang magabug-at sang 56,000 tonelada kag may siyam ka mga deck.
May kabug-usan man ini nga 835 cabins nga sarang maka-akomodar sang 2,435 ka mga pasahero.
Halos katunga naman sini ang itigana para sa first class passengers.
Kaangay sa naglugdang nga barko, lakip man sa layout sini ang ballroom, ang bridge, ang swimming pool, kag ang Turkish baths.
Pahayag pa sang bilyonaryo, i-hire niya ang pinakamaayo nga ship-builders, designers, kag engineers sa bilog nga kalibutan agud nga mahuman ang Titanic ll.
Plano ni Palmer nga masuguran ang construction sa 2025 kag magalayag na sa Hunyo 2027 halin sa Southampton, England padulong sa New York nga amo man ang ruta sang original nga Titanic sang 1912.
Nahibaluan nga ang original nga Titanic ang naglugdang sadtong Abril 1912 matapos nga nakabunggo sa iceberg.
Ini nga trahedya amo ang inspirasyon sa 1997 hit romantic film ni James Cameron kun sa diin bida sanday Leonardo DiCaprio kag Kate Winslet kag nakadaog sang 11 ka Oscars lakip na si Kate nga amo ang Best Actress.
Polio survivor nga masobra 70 ka tuig nga nabuhi sa bulig sang iron lung, nagtaliwan na
Napatay na sa edad nga 78-anyos ang isa ka polio survivor nga si Paul Alexander ukon kilala bilang “the man in the iron lung” bangud sa indi sini kinaandan nga eksperyensya kun sa diin masobra 70 ka tuig ini nga nagkabuhi paagi lamang sa iron lung.
Indi pa maathag kun ano gid ang rason sang iya kamatayon apang sang Pebrero, matandaan nga gindalagan ini sa ospital bangud sa pagpositibo sa COVID-19 nga tuman ka delikado sa iya ikaayong lawas.
Nakaangkon siya sang polio sang 1952 sa edad nga anum ka tuig rason nga naparalisa ini halin sa liog kag sa bug-os sini nga lawas.
Sang amo nga tuig, kasagsagan gid sang polio epidemic — masobra 21,000 ka kaso sang paralytic polio ang na-rekord sa United States suno sa US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Bangud sa amo nga balatian, indi makaginhawa sang maayo si Alexander rason nga ginbutang siya sang mga doktor sa metal cylinder nga amo ang nagpalawig sang iya kabuhi sa masobra pito ka dekada.
Ang ventilator — daku nga yellow metal chamber — amo ang naga-require kay Alexander nga ihigda ang lawas sini kag ulo gid lamang ang kit-anon.
Ang air pressure ang padayon nga naga-cycle up kag down agud mag-stimulate sang pagginhawa.
Kilala man siya bilang si “Polio Paul” kag nahatagan man sang Guinness World Record sang titulo bilang longest-surviving patient nga nabuhi sa bulig lamang sang nasambit nga makina.
Apisar sang iya nga sitwasyon, wala ini nag-upang kay Alexander nga matuman ang iya handum.
Sa edad nga 21, siya ang labing-una nga tawo nga naka-graduate sa high school sa Dallas nga wala gid nakatambong sang face-to-face nga mga klase.
Naka-gradwar man ini sang abogasya sa University of Texas sa Austin, nakapasar sa exam, kag nangin trial lawyer ini nga nagtiglawas sang mga kliyente sa korte suksok ang three-piece suit kag ang modified wheelchair nga amo ang nagasuporta sa iya paralisado nga lawas.
Nakapublish man ini sang libro nga “Three Minutes for a Dog: My Life in an Iron Lung” nga walo ka tuig sini nga nasulat.
Tuman man ang pagpasalamat sang pamilya sini sa tanan nga nagpalangga sa iya, ilabi na ang iya utod nga si Philip Alexander nga amo gid ang nagpabilin sa iya nga tupad tubtub sa iya ulihi nga ginhawa.
70-anyos nga lolo sa Brazil, 50 ka tuig na nga wala nagainom sang tubig
ILOILO CITY- May isa ka 70-anyos nga naga- claim nga wala gid ini nakainom sang bisan isa ka tulo sang tubig sa nagligad nga 50 ka tuig.
Suno sa iya, indi gid ini makasaho mag-inom sang tubig, gani ang iya ginainom halin sang una…soda ukon softdrink.
Apisar madamo sang wala nagapati sa iya, ang iya apo nga 27-anyos ang nagkumpirma nga humalin sang natubuan siya sang buot, wala gid niya makita ang iya lolo nga nagainom sang tubig kag pirmi lang softdrink.
Bisan mag-inom sang bulong, softdrink ang iya gina-pares kag indi tubig.
Apisar nga mabatyagan niya nga indi maayo ang epekto sini sa iya ikaayong lawas, wala siya sang plano nga untatan ini.
Ang mga doktor nga nagbulong sa iya ang isa lang ang ginahingyo sa iya– mag-inom sang tubig apang daw wala lang ini sa iya bungog.
Sa pagkamatuod, ang 70 -anyos nga lolo ang nagasuprir sang diabetes, may problema sa iya heart kag nagsuprir na gani sang heart attack apang wala gid ini sang plano nga mag-inom sang tubig.
Mass cheating: Mga tawo, nagtaklas sa pader sang eskwelahan agud maghatag sang kudigo sa examinees
Kun kaisa, daw ginahimo na man lang naton nga kaladlawan ang mga adlaw nga nagasundanay kita sang sabat sa eskwelahan.
Ara bala nga wala ikaw nakatuon ukon wala ka nagapamati kag pasalamat ka nalang sa imo nga seatmate kun mabuot ini kag kun may ihatag nga sabat sa imo sa test!
Apang syempre, indi gid maayo ang cheating kag indi ini dapat pag-i-tolerar.
Sa India, nabutang sa sentro sang kontrobersiya ang isa ka eskwelahan matapos nakuhaan sang video ang mga tawo nga nagatalaklas sa pader agud lamang mapasahan sang sabat ang mga nagakuha sang exam sa sulod.
Sandig sa reports, natabo ini sa Chandravati School sa Tauru sa Nuh district sa amo nga pungsod.
Ginpahayag nga pila lang ka ginutlo ang makaligad sang nag-umpisa ang exam, may nag-leak sang examination paper — rason kun ngaa naghulag gilayon ang mga ginikanan kag mga himata sa guwa sang eskwelahan, gin-search ang mga sabat, kag sang ulihi, nagtaklas ang mga ini sa pader agud nga maduhulan sang sabat ang mga examinees.
Todo-panindugan naman ang principal sang buluthuan nga wala sang cheating scandal nga natabo bangud sa ila seguridad nga ginpatuman.
Ang video suno sa iya ang nagapakita lang sa tuyo nga mag-cheat, apang wala ini nadayon bangud may mga police sila nga nagapatrolya sa area kag naka-estasyon sa kada corner sang campus kun may mga kaangay sini nga board exams.
Apisar sang depensa sang eskwelahan, may pila naman nga nagpahayag nga daw nahimo na nga routine ang cheating sa amo nga eskwelahan, kag sa pagkamatuod suno sa ila, daw para lamang sa “formality” ang security sa tion sang importante nga pasinawan.
Suno sa district education officer, nagmandu na siya sa officials nga magpasa sang report kaangot sa amo nga insidente.
Gindugang naman sang Block Education Officer nga wala ginatugutan ang cheating sa bisan anuman nga sirkumstansya kag dapat nga manabat pananglitan matuod nga may yara gid man sang involved diri samtang padayon ang exam.
Bangud sa burador, helicopter, nagpatigayon sang emergency landing
Madamo ang napuhag bangud sa emergency landing sang isa ka helicopter sa bakante nga lote sa banwa sang Guindulman sa probinsya sang Bohol — nga sang ulihi natukiban nga ang rason amo ang isa ka burador!
Lucia, Barangay Trinidad, Guindulman, isa ka fourth class municipality nga nahamtang 91.5 km east sang capital city nga Tagbilaran.
Suno sa mga residente, antes pa man maghugpa ang helicopter, nakit-an na nila nga may deperensya sa paglupad sini.
Sang nakaabot na sa bakante nga lote, gin-check sang piloto kun ano ang problema kag may nakit-an nga nylon string sang burador sa rotor blades sang helicopter.
Hilway sa katalagman ang piloto kag duha ka mga pasahero kag wala man sang nakit-an nga damage sa helicopter rason nga naglupad man gilayon dies minutos matapos ang emergency landing.
Piloto, nagbulig sa pagpabata sa pasahero nga nalaangan samtang yara sa kahawaan
Madamo gid ang nagdayaw kag nalipay sa ginhimo sang isa ka piloto nga gilayon nga pagbulig sang na-alang-alangan ang isa sini ka pasahero kag nagbata samtang nga malayo pa ang paghugpa sang eroplano.
Ini amo si Jakarin Sararnrakskul nga amo ang piloto sang VietJet plane halin sa Taipei, Taiwan padulong sa Bangkok, Thailand.
Bangud sa emerhensya nga ginsugid sang cabin crew nga nagabata na ang pasahero, ginbayaan sang piloto ang cockpit kag gintugyan ang trabaho sa isa ka babayi nga co-pilot.
Wala nagpang-alang-alang ang piloto nga buligan ang babayi nga todo-pangabudlay sa iya nga labor.
Gin-ako man sang piloto nga 18-anyos na siya sa iya nga trabaho, apang ini ang una nga bes nga nakapabata ini sa nagabusong nga pasahero.
Paghugpa sang eroplano sa Bangkok, nagahulat na ang paramedics kag sang ulihi, ginkumpirma nga healthy si mommy kag si baby.
Proud ang pilot sa amo nga eksperyensya kag malipayon man ini bangud mismo ang crew ang nagpa-hayo sa bata nga “Sky” bilang pagkilala sa amo nga adlaw kun sa diin nabata ini samtang yara pa sa kahawaan.
Tumalagsahon ini nga hitabo bangud sa 2020 study nga ginbalhag sang International Society of Travel Medicine, 74 lamang ka kabataan ang nabun-ag sa commercial flights halin sang 1929 tubtub 2018, kag sa sini nga numero, tatlo gid lamang ang nakaluwas.
62-anyos nga tigulang, 217 ka beses na nga nakapabakuna batok sa Covid-19
Tinuig na ang nagligad halin sang una nga nagtuhaw ang pangalan sang coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19), apang tubtub subong, may mga kilala pa kita nga wala pa nakapabakuna batok sa sini nga balatian bangud nahadlok, may yara man nga nagapang-alang-alang kag wala sang salig sa gin-agyan sang bakuna, kag may yara man nga naga-rason nga “kun tiyempo mo na, tiyempo mo gid na ya.”
Apang, nakahibalo ka bala nga may tawo nga masobra na 200 ka beses nga natublukan sang bakuna para sa sini nga balatian apang daw wala gihapon sang epekto sa iya nga immune system?
Ini amo ang 62-anyos nga tigulang halin sa Magdeburg, Germany — nga suno sa researchers halin sa University of Erlangen-Nuremberg — nakabaton sang tuman ka taas nga numero sang vaccinations sang “boluntaryo” lamang kag bangud sa “pribado nga mga rason”.
Wala ginpangalanan ang tigulang bilang pagtuman sa privacy rules sa Germany apang base sa report, 217 ka beses ini nga nakabaton sang Covid-19 shots halin sang Hunyo 2021 tubtub sang Nobyembre 2023.
Sa sini nga numero, 134 ang ginkumpirma sang prosecutor kag paagi sa vaccination center documentation; samtang self-reported naman ang 83 nga nabilin.
Una nga nakilala sang researchers ang tigulang paagi sa balita kag ginpakig-angutan siya paagi sa prosecutor nga naga-imbestigar sa iya kaso sang Mayo 2022.
Gin-imbestigaran ang amo nga tigulang bangud sa indi otorisado nga paggamit sang vaccination cards kag forgery sang dokumento, apang sang ulihi, wala man sang kaso-kriminal nga ginpasaka batok sa iya.
Nagpasugot man ang amo nga tigulang nga maghatag sang medical information, blood kag saliva samples.
Gin-analisar sang researchers ang iya nga blood chemistries apang wala sang nakit-an nga abnormalities nga naangot sa iya nga hypervaccination.
Ang findings sini ang ginbalhag sa medical journal nga Lancet Infectious Diseases kun sa diin nakabutang nga ang coronavirus vaccines ang may yara sang “good degree of tolerability” suno sa researchers — apang ila man gin-athag nga ini isa ka isolated case sang indi-kinaandan nga “hypervaccination.”
Suno sa team, ang amo nga tigulang ang may yara sang mas mataas ang lebel sang sang immune cells kag antibodies batok sa coronavirus ipaanggid sa iban nga mga tawo nga nakabaton lang gani sang tatlo ka vaccine doses.
Apisar sini nga findings, ginklaro sang researchers nga wala nila gina-endorso ang hypervaccination bilang estratehiya agud nga ma-enhance ang adaptive immunity.
Emily Happy Miller, isa ka assistant professor sang medicine kag microbiology and immunology sa Albert Einstein College of Medicine nga wala nakapasakop sa sini nga research.#
Pamilya sang lalaki nga indi gusto ang nobya sini, ginsabotahe ang ila kasal
ILOILO CITY- Ka-bombo, halimbawa kun indi mo gusto ang pakaslan sang imo bata ukon sang imo utod ukon sang bisan sin-o man nga paryente mo, mahimo ka man sang pamaagi agud indi madayon ang ila kasal?
Baw, may ara ako pamilya nga nakilala nga ginhimo ang tanan agud lamang nga indi magdayunay ang ila himata kag ang iya nobya.
Ang pamilya nga ini, tag-iya sang sikat nga punerarya sa Mexico.
Sang ginpakilala sang lalaki ang iya nobya, wala na dayon nila ini nagustuhan bangud pigado ini kag gindumdom nila nga basi kwarta lang ang lagas sang nobya sa lalaki.
Ginpahog sang mga utod sang lalaki ang nobya sini nga si Alexandra, paagi sa social media, gamit ang fake accounts.
Wala pa nakontento, nagpakuno- kuno pa ang iloy nga gin-heart attack siya kag ginbasol ang nobya.
Sang adlaw na sang kasal, abaw, hamakon mo na ya nga nagbayad pa sila sang mga sunoy agud bubuan sang pinta ang trahe de boda sang babaye samtang ara sa gwa sang simbahan.
Sa pagkamatuod, sang adlaw sang kasal, wala gid nagtambong ang pamilya sang lalaki.
Ang sabat…siempre kay palangga gid sang lalaki ang babaye.
Hambal sang iban nga nakahibalo sang natabo… mas maayo nalang nga mag-istar sila nga mag-asawa sa malayo nga lugar agud nga indi na sila madistorbo sang pamilya sang lalaki.
Ilaga, rason kun ngaa wala ginpalupad ang isa ka eroplano sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, matunog nga ginahambalan ang isa ka ilaga nga nakit-an sang isa ka pasahero sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport.
Ini ya, didto naman sa Sri Lanka, pero sa sulod gid sang eroplano!
Sang nakit-an ang ilaga sa sulod sang SriLankan Airlines Airbus A330 flight nga halin sa syudad sang Lahore sa Pakistan, nag-desisyon ang airline management nga indi na pagpalupadon ang eroplano sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Importante ini suno sa management agud nga masiguro nga wala gin-it-it sang ilaga ang mga kritikal nga parte sang eroplano.
Ginsiling man sang management nga sang tion nga nakit-an ang ilaga, wala gid ginpahalin ang eroplano tubtub nga wala nasiguro nga patay na ini.
Antes sini, nahibaluan nga ang airline nga ginapanag-iyahan sang state ang napierde na sang masobra $1.8 bilyon sa katapusan sang Marso 2023.
Tatlo ka iban pa nga eroplano sang SriLankan Airline ang na-ground man sang masobra isa ka tuig.
Ini ang rason nga indi ini basta-basta nga problema suno sa aviation minister bangud posible nga may investors na kuntani nga interesado kuhaon ang airline nga lubong sa utang, apang posible nga mag-isol bangud sa problema sa ilaga.
‘Peppa Pig’ music, gingamit sang pulis agud makit-an ang isa ka bata nga may autism nga inoras nga nadula
Kun may bata sa inyo nga balay, posible nga pamilyar ikaw sa musika nga ginagamit sa “Peppa Pig” cartoon bangud sulit-sulit nila ini nga ginalantaw.
Sa Jiangxi province sa China, isa ka pulis ang ginadayaw bangud sa iya nga paggamit sa sini nga musika agud nga makit-an ang isa ka missing nga bata nga may autism.
Isa ka adlaw, may nag-report sa pulis nga may walo ka tuig nga missing nga bata nga may apelyido nga Lu kag tuman ang kahangawa sang pamilya bangud inoras na nila ini nga ginapangita.
Sang nagresponde ang otoridad, nabudlayan sila bangud guba ang surveillance cameras sa building nga nga nahamtangan sang pamilya amo man ang yara sa elevator rason nga indi sila makasigurado kun nakaguwa ang bata ukon yara lang gihapon sa residential complex.
Anum ka oras ang ginlawig sang search kaupod sa pamilya kag property management tubtub nga nakalab-ot na sila sa kaagahon apang huyhuy gihapon ang abaga bangud indi makit-an ang ila nga ginapangita.
Sa bahin sang pulis, ginpaminsar sini sang madalom nga basi kun nag-saka ang bata sa atop sang nagbalik ini sa ila balay kag wala sang may nakit-an nga tawo.
Bangud nahibaluan sini nga may mga beses nga wala nagasabat sa kada tawag ang mga bata nga may autism, gingamit sini ang theme song sang “Peppa Pig” nga paborito gid nga lantawon sang bata.
Sang ulihi, sa dalayon nga pagpatukar sini, may nagkulas.
Didto nadiskubrehan nga nagsaka gali ang bata sa rooftop, nahulog sa hagdan, kag na-trap sa pader nga daw tatlo ka metros ang kataason kag wala gid ini naga-timok-timok.
Bangud sa iya kulas, nakit-an siya sang pulis kag napasaka sa pader sa bulig sang iban nga rescuers.
Ginpaidalom sa medical check-up ang bata kag amo na lang ang kalipay sang pamilya nga wala ini sang samad ukon ginabatyag nga sakit sa lawas.
Todo-dayaw naman ang publiko bangud sa maalam kag makatalandog-balatyagon nga pamaagi sang pulis sa amo nga rescue operation.#
Rihanna, Zuckerberg, nagtambong sa pre-wedding bash sang anak sang richest man sa Asya
Nakahibalo ka bala kun ano ang matabo pananglitan kaslon ang agot nga anak sang pinaka-manggaranon nga tawo sa Asya?
Indi na pag-problemahi ang sabat bangud ginhimo na ina sang Indian billionaire industrialist nga si Mukesh Ambani sang naghiwat ini sang tatlo ka adlaw nga prenuptial bash apat ka bulan antes ang aktwal nga seremonya sa kasal sang bata sini nga si Anant Ambani, 28, kag sang iya longtime girlfriend nga si Radhika Merchant, 29.
Indi basta-basta ang gintipon nga mga personalidad sa ila syudad sa Jamnagar kundi mga tycoons halin sa bilog nga kalibutan, heads of state, kag Hollywood kag Bollywood stars sang nag-umpisa na ang prenuptial bash.
Lakip sa masobra 1,000 nga nakabutang sa guest list amo sanday pop superstar Rihanna, Microsoft co-founder kag philanthropist nga si Bill Gates, Meta boss nga si Mark Zuckerberg, anak ni anay US President Donald Trump nga si Ivanka Trump, kag Bollywood celebrity Shah Rukh Khan.
Hulyo 29 pa ang kasal sang duha, apang sandig sa reports, ginbayaran na si Rihanna sang P354.6-million agud lamang nga maka-perform sa amo nga pagtilipon.
Nahibaluan nga ang amay nga si Ambani, 66, amo ang ika-10 sa pinaka-manggaranon nga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan kag may net worth nga P6.4-trillion.
Sa bilog nga Asya, siya ang ginakabig nga pinakamanggaranon.
Indi na ini bag-o nga mga selebrasyon sa ila pamilya bangud sang 2018, sang ginkasal man ang anak sini nga babayi, nalakip man sa enggrande nga selebrasyon ang pop sensation nga si Beyoncé kag yara man ang former US Secretaries of State nga sanday Hillary Clinton kag John Kerry.
Isa ka iloy, may 44 na ka kabataan sa edad nga 40-anyos
Kilala mo bala ang ginabansagan nga pinaka-fertile nga babayi sa kalibutan?
Ini amo si Mariam Nabatanzi apang mas kilala sa pangalan nga “Mama Uganda” nga may yara sang 44 ka mga kabataan sa edad nga 40-anyos!
Mahimo nga mang-apaw-apaw ka kun mabatian mo nga 13-anyos pa lamang siya sang una nga nakaangkon sang kapid nga anak.
Pagtungtong sa edad nga 36, may yara na siya sang 42 ka iban pa nga babies….kag sa edad nga 40, diri na kag nabun-ag ang ika-44 sa iya mga bata.
Apisar daw makibot ka sa kadamuon sang iya bata, masubuan ka man kun mahibaluan mo nga ginbayaan siya sang iya bana kag isahanon niya nga ginabuhi ini nga daku nga pamilya didto sa Uganda, East Africa.
12-anyos pa lamang si Mariam sang ginbaligya siya sang iya nga ginikanan; ginkasal sa isa ka lalaki; kag nagbusong siya sa edad nga 13.
Apat ka sets ang iya kapid nga bata; lima ka sets ang triplets; lima ka sets ang quadruplets; kag isa ka bes lamang siya nga nakabata nga isahanon lang ang bata ukon wala sang kapid.
Anum sa sini nga mga bata ang napatay, kag bangud nagtal-as ang iya bana dala ang ila sinuptan nga kuwarta, nagapangabuhi si Mariam nga single parent kag may yara sang 38 ka mga bata kun sa diin 20 ang lalaki kag 18 ang babayi.
Indi man kinaandan ang medical condition ni Mariam bangud natukiban nga may yara ini sang abnormal nga kadakuon sang ovaries nga nag-resulta sa kondisyon nga hyperovulation.
Suno sa doktor, indi na magsaler sa iya ang birth control pills kag posible magtuga sang mas malala nga health conditions.
Bangud tuman siya ka fertile, gin-abisuhan siya sang doktor nga kinahanglan niya nga maminata agud nga mabuhinan ang fertility levels sa iya nga ovaries.
Charles Kiggundu, isa ka gynecologist sa Mulago Hospital sa Kampala.
Kasunod sini, kinahanglan pa nga utdon sang mga doctors ang iya nga uterus halin sa sulod agud nga makauntat na ini sa pagbata.
Sang nagbiya ang iya bana sang 2016, ginahimo na ni Mariam nga adlaw pati ang gab-i agud nga makatrabaho.
Isa siya ka event decorator kag hairstylist kag nagahimo man sang lain-lain nga herbal medicines agud nga makahatag sang pagkaon sa iya mga bata.
Magluwas diri, suportado man siya sang mga pondo halin sa fundraising kag iban nga donations.
Nahibaluan nga bisan nga may pinasahi nga medical condition si Mariam, nakaandan nga mataas gid man ang fertility rates sa Uganda kun sa diin ang average amo ang 5.6 ka mga bata sa kada babayi nga doble pa sa world average nga 2.4 ka mga kabataan sa kada babayi.# — via Times Now
100-anyos nga Lola, naga-selebrar sang iya “25th birthday” subong nga Leap Day
Bangud Leap Day subong nga adlaw, espesyal ini para sa mga tawo nga natuon sa Pebrero 29 ang ila nga kaadlawan.
Kun kaisa, masiling mo, “ay daw wala sila gatigulang no?”
Kaangay sa sining isa ka Lola sa Sand Springs sa Oklahoma sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika kun sa diin 100-anyos na ang iya edad subong nga adlaw, nga technically… amo man ang iya nga 25th birthday!
Bangud makaisa ka bes lamang nga nagatuhaw ang Pebrero 29 sa kada apat ka tuig, buot silingon, talagsa man ang selebrasyon ni Mary Lea Forsythe sa sulod sang isa ka siglo sini nga kabuhi.
Antes pa man ang iya nga kaadlawan subong nga adlaw, ginkilala na siya sang nonprofit organization nga Centenarians of Oklahoma.
May birthday party man para sa iya nga ginhiwat sang Daughters of the American Revolution Osage Hills Chapter kun sa diin ginbalik-balikan ang pinanid sa iya nga kabuhi bilang isa ka centenarian.
Lakip sang mga matahum nga butang nga gin-enjoy ni Lola Mary sa iya bilog nga kabuhi amo ang musical bangud gusto-gusto gid sini nga nagauyat siya sang piano kag mandolin.
Ang iya paborito nga kanta amo ang “Sitting at the Feet of Jesus.”
Kilala man ini nga palabasa sang bibliya kag isa gid ka inspirasyon para sa tanan.
Magluwas diri, may yara man siya sang duha ka anak, lima ka mga apo, kag 11 ka mga apo sa tuhod.
Naka-trabaho siya bilang secretary sa law firm, nag-pursue sang real estate license, kag naka-publish man sang iya nga kaugalingon nga libro.
Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang tyansa nga mabata sa Pebrero 29 ang yara lamang sa isa sa kada 1,461 ka tawo?
Ginapahayag man nga may yara sang lima ka miyon nga mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan nga nabun-ag sa sini nga espesyal nga adlaw.
Kun nagapamangkot ka kun san-o ang masunod nga Leap Year, worry no more, sabton ka namon!
29, 2032; kag ang sunod amo ang Byernes, Feb.
Lalaki, gintamnan sang humay ang iya ulo
ILOILO CITY- Ka-Bombo, isa sa pinakamatahum nga talan-awon siguro amo ang mga humay sa talamnan nga simbolo sang kapisan sang mga mangunguma.
Apang maapresyar mo ayhan ang humay kun nagatubo ini nga indi sa talamnan, indi man sa hardin ukon sa paso kundi sa ulo sang tawo?
May yara sang isa ka lalaki sa India nga nagtanom sang humay sa iya ulo.
Ang iya ginhimo, ginputos niya ang iya ulo sa tela kag ginbutangan sang duta kun sa diin mahimo magtubo ang humay kag nagatubo gid man ini.
Para sa iya, ginhimo niya ini agud ipakita nga ang iya ulo ang simbolo sang vitality kag gina-engganyo man niya ang iban nga magsunod man sa iya.
Kun tion naman sang tig-alani, ginakolekta man niya ang humay kag ginaluto kag nagatanom liwat sang bag-o nga humay sa iya ulo.
Gin-ako man niya nga isa sa pinakamabudlay nga sakripisyo niya agud magtubo sang maayo ang humay amo nga kinahanglan niya nga magtulog samtang nagapungko.
Lalaki, dakop sa akto nga ginapasaka sa apartment building ang iya kinawatan nga kabayo
Nahimo nga kalaham-utan sa atubang sang iya nga mga kasilingan ang isa ka lalaki nga nagpangawat sang kabayo kag nagtuyo nga taguon ang sapat sa sulod sang iya apartment!
Natabo ini sa Wejherowo, Poland kun sa diin nakabaton ang pulis sang tawag nga nagapangayo sang bulig bangud may lalaki kuno nga may dala nga kabayo kag ginapasaka ini sa ikatatlo nga panalgan sang ila nga apartment building.
Sa una, daw indi pa magpati ang pulis kag nasal-an pa nga prank lamang ang tawag… bangud ano abi ang himuon sang kabayo sa sulod sang kuwarto sa apartment?
Apang wala gid nagakadlaw ang caller rason nga nagpadala sang personnel ang pulis agud hibaluon kun ano ka matuod ang report.
Naabtan sa area ang isa ka 19-anyos nga lalaki nga may dala matuod nga kabayo kag ginapasaka sa hagdan apang daw may eskandalo pa nga nagakatabo bangud ginabais sini ang mga tawo nga nagapugong sa iya.
Suno sa District Police Headquarters sa Wejherowo, natukiban sang ulihi nga kinawatan gali ang kabayo kag gusto sang lalaki nga taguon ini anay sa iya nga kuwarto.
Wala man sini napinsaran kun daw ano ka obvious ang iya nga ginhimo, ukon kun ano ayhan ang himuon sini sa sapat pananglitan makalab-ot gid man sila sa ikatatlo nga panalgan.
Ginbanta sang pulis nga yara sa P213,000 ang balor sang kabayo.
Ginbalik man ang sapat sa iya nga tag-iya, kag didto nahibaluan nga na-report na sini nga ginkawat gid man ang iya nga hinuptanan.
Para naman sa “genius” nga lalaki nga nagmato-mato sa iya operasyon-kawat-kabayo, posible ini nga ma-preso sang tatlo ka bulan ukon tubtub sa lima ka tuig bangud sa kaso nga theft.#
Asia Cup Qualifiers: Japan, ginlutos ang China sa labing-una nga tion halin sang 1936
Nangin tuman ka daku ang selebrasyon sang basketball fans sa Japan matapos nga nalutos na gid man sang ila pungsod ang China sa isa ka major international basketball competition sa labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang halos siyam ka dekada!
Ini paagi sa pagpangibabaw sang Akatsuki Five batok sa Chinese team nga Team Dragon, 76-73, nga amo man ang rason nga nagsaka sa 2-0 ang ila nga rekord sa Group C sa una nga window sang FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers.
Si Yudai Baba nga nakahampang anay sa Texas Legends sa NBA G League ang nakabubo sang 24 points kag amo ang nagpanguna sa Japanese team agud nga lutuson ang China sa labing-una nga tion halin sang natabo ang 1936 Olympics sa Berlin, Germany — ukon 88 ka tuig na ang nakaligad.
Suportado man ini sang naturalized big man nga si Joshua Hawkinson nga may double-double sang 14 points kag 12 rebounds, samtang si Yuki Kawamura naman ang nakapaulan sang 12 points.
Nahibaluan nga antes ang hampang sa Window 1 sang Domingo, Pebrero 25, nakalab-ot na sa 14 ka beses nga nagsumalangay ang banas sang China kag Japan sa Asia Cup.
Sang tuig 2021 lamang, apat ka beses gid nga nag-atubangay ang duha ka teams sa sulod lamang sang anum ka bulan sa Asia Cup Qualifiers kag World Cup Qualifiers.
Sa amo nga mga sambuwa, wala sang bisan isa ka bes nga natumba sang Japanese team ang national team sang China.#
Isa ka manugpakilimos, may malahalon nga SUV, may income nga P5,800 kada adlaw
Nakakita ka na bala sang manugpakilimos lang pero may yara sang kaugalingon nga sports utility vehicle (SUV)?
Daw makibot ka man kag mapa-“sana all” kun may makilala ka nga amo sini!
Amo gid ina ang nabatyagan sang isa ka social welfare department officer sa Maran District sa Pahang, Malaysia sang damlag lang sang may nadiskubrehan sila nga manugpakilimos nga manggaranon.
Sang amo nga tion, nag-conduct ang team sang operasyon sa mga nagapangayo-kayo sa Sri Jaya night market sa Maran.
Ginpalapitan sang staff ang 45-anyos nga tawo bangud madamo ang nagareklamo sa iya pagpangalimos.
Sa una nga lantaw, makaluluoy gid ang lalaki bangud malip-ot ang duha ka kamot sini kag may bitbit pa nga paper bag kun sa diin ginabutang ang limos.
Suno pa sa taga-social welfare, ginpinsar nila nga apa kag bungol ang lalaki bangud wala ini nagasabat kun pamangkuton.
Apang wala nag-untat ang team sa pagpangusisa kag sang ulihi, ginpangitaan ini sang identification card (ID).
Nakibot ang welfare officers sang naghambal ang lalaki kag nagsiling nga nabilin ang iya ID sa kotse.
Nakibot pa sila sang nakit-an ang premium SUV, isa ka Proton X70 nga ginabanta nagabalor sang P1.4-million tubtub P1.5 million.
Ginsugid man sang lalaki nga nagalab-ot sa P5,800 kada adlaw ang iya matipon sa kada adlaw nga pagpanglimos.
Bangud isa man ini ka person with disability, nagabaton man ini sang monthly allowance nga sobra sa P5,000 halin sa social welfare department halin sang 2001.
Amo ini suno sa iya ang ginagamit para sa car installment kag adlaw-adlaw nga kinahanglan.
Wala man sang ginkaso ang social welfare officers bangud una pa lamang ini nga offense.
Ginsilingan man ini nga untaton ang pagpakilimos kag iga-review man ang iya nga status para sa makuha sini nga government allowance.#
Pinakamataas nga lalaki kag pinakaputot nga babayi sa kalibutan, maga-updanay sa isa ka proyekto
Nang-agaw gid sang atensyon ang duha ka world record holders sang sila ang nag-updanay liwat sa pagkaon, nag-photoshoot, kag natalana man nga mag-updanay sa isa ka top secret project!
Ang iconic duo nga ini amo sanday Sultan Kosen sang Turkey kag Jyoti Amge sang India — ang ginakabig nga pinakamataas nga nagakabuhi nga lalaki kag ang pinakaputot nga nagakabuhi nga babayi sa bilog nga kalibutan!
Ang 41-anyos nga si Kosen ang nagataas sang 8 ka tapak kag duha ka pulgada, samtang si Amge, 30, ang nagataas lamang sang 2 ka tapak kag pito ka pulgada.
Si Kosen amo man ang naga-uyat sang rekord sang nagakabuhi nga lalaki nga may pinamalaba nga kamot.
Nagatakos ini sang 28.5 sentimetros (11.22 ka pulgada), gani ma-imagine mo kun daw ano siya ka-higante tulukon!
Indi pa maathag kun ano ang proyekto sang duha apang ginpahayag nga didto sila sa Los Angeles, California, USA ginpakadto kasunod sang imbitasyon sang wala pa ginhingadlan nga American producer.
Sang 2018 sang una nga nagkit-anay ang duha sa Egypt, nagkuha sang picture sa Great Sphinx of Giza nga isa man ka Guinness World Record holder bilang largest monolithic sculpture sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Nakuha ni Kosen ang record bilang world’s tallest man living sang 2009 bilang resulta sang iya nga medical condition nga ginatawag nga pituitary gigantism nga rason sang madasig nga pagtubo sang iya tul-an kag iban nga parte sang lawas sang mas madasig ipaanggid sa iban nga tawo.
Sa pihak nga bahin, 2011 naman sang nauyatan ni Amge ang rekord sang world’s shortest woman.
Resulta ini sang isa ka sahi sang dwarfism nga ginatawag nga achondroplasia.
Sang 2014, nangin shortest actress man ini sa kalibutan matapos sini gindala ang papel ni Ma Petite sa American Horror Story.#
Lapsag, patay matapos ginsulod sang iya iloy sa oven sa baylo nga sa kuna
Makahalanusbo ang naabtan sang isa ka lapsag nga ginsulod sang iya iloy sa oven bangud nasal-an ini nga kuna.
Natabo ini sa Missouri sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika kun sa diin ang iloy ang ginkilala nga si Mariah Thomas nga subong nagapangatubang na sang kaso bangud sa nahimo sa iya kaugalingon nga anak.
Suno sa reports sang US media, sang nag-abot na ang otoridad, nakit-an nga wala na gid nagaginhawa ang bata kag puno ini sang paso.
Suno sa nagtindog nga testigo, ginbutang ni Thomas ang bata agud nga makatulog apang sa oven niya ini nasulod sa baylo nga sa kuna — apang wala man gin-athag kun paano nga nagsala ang iloy sa iya nga aktwasyon.
May separado man nga report nga nagaguwa kun sa diin gindetalye sang suod nga abyan ni Thomas nga naga-suprer ini sang mental illness halin sang bata pa.
Ginpahayag nga nag-untat lamang si Thomas sa pag-inom sang iya nga bulong samtang nga nagabusong ini sa iya bata nga si Baby Za’Riah.
Sang nabun-ag na sini ang bata, wala man ini nagbalik sa pag-inom sang bulong kag nagakadlaw-kadlaw lamang kun pamangkuton.
Suno sa abyan, isa ka bulan matapos nga nakabata, nakit-an nga naglain na naman ang mental health ni Thomas kag masami ini nga nasubuan.
Gin-alegar nga wala man ini nanamian nga nagustuhan lang siya sang tawo bangud may yara siya sang Baby Za’Riah.
Apisar sini, nagapanindugan ang abyan nga nagapati siya nga indi hungod ni Thomas nga patyon ang lapsag bangud tuman niya ini ka palangga.
Sa statement, ginlaragway naman sang Jackson County prosecuting attorney nga si Jean Peters Baker nga isa ka “gruesome nature” ang natabo sa amo nga trahedya kag ginalauman nga makasabat gilayon ang criminal justice system sa sini nga sirkumstansya.
Babayi, masobra 10 ka beses nga ginpeke ang pagbusong para maka-avail sang maternity benefits
May mga tion gid nga kinahanglan naton ang break sa aton trabaho.
Gusto naton nga lain naman ang makit-an sang aton nga mga mata kag indi lang maglibut-libot sa hulot nga puno sang papel kag computer.
Apang dapat man nga hulaton mo kun san-o ikaw maka-leave.
Indi kaangay sini nga babayi nga gin-akusahan nga nag-peke sang 17 ka mga pagbusong sa nagligad nga duha ka dekada agud nga indi ini maka-obra kag ma-avail pa sini ang maternity benefits!
Ini amo si Barbara Ioele, isa ka 50-anyos nga Italian, kun sa diin base sa iya mga dokumento, sa nagligad nga 24 ka tuig, 17 ka tion gid ini nga nagbusong apang sa sini nga 17, ka-12 man siya mahululugan.
Lima ka beses naman siya nga nagbun-ag base gihapon sa amo nga dokumento kag iya pa ini ginpangalanan kanday Benedetta, Angelica, Abramo, Letizia, kag Ismaele.
Amo lang ina ugaling — wala na-rehistro ini nga mga kabataan kag wala sang nakakita sa ila bisan isa.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa natiktikan kag ginpaidalom sa monitoring si Barbara kun sa diin gina-claim sang otoridad nga may ebidensya na sila nga peke ang iya 17 tanan nga pagbusong.
Ginsiling nga ginhimo-himo lamang niya ang istorya agud ma-claim ang kabug-usan nga $120,000 ukon P6.7-million nga maternity benefits magluwas pa nga maka-eskapo ini sa trabaho.
Tuman ka dramatic ang istorya ni Barbara bangud sandig pa sa prosecutors, extra nga trabaho man ang ginhimo sang babayi agud mapapati ang iban nga nagabusong siya — halimbawa, nangawat ini sang birth certificates sa mga clinic sa Roma kag nang-forge sang mga pirma sang doktor, nagbutang sang ulunan sa pus-on, kag nag-rehearse kun paano maglakat nga daw nagabusong.
Sa interogasyon, nag-ako man ang 55-anyos nga partner ni Barbara nga si Davide Pizzinato nga nakahibalo siya nga wala nagabusong ang babaye.
Gin-ako man sini nga nakahibalo siya halin sang tuig 2012 kaangot sa pagpanunto sang iya partner.
Bisan sa sini nga mga testimoniya, ebidensya, kag mga pamangkot sa iya, hugot nga nagapanindungan si Barbara nga inosente siya sa kaso.
Apisar sini, nagapangatubang si Barbara sang posible penalidad nga pagka-preso bangud sang financial fraud, identity fraud, kag iban pa.#
Former Dutch Prime Minister kag iya asawa, ginpili nga dungan nga mapatay paagi sa euthanasia
Ang siling sa pinaka-popular nga linya sa kada wedding vow: “til death do us part.”
Apang para sa anay prime minister sang Netherlands nga si Dries van Agt kag sa iya asawa nga si Eugenie, mas maayo nga kun magkaupod sila sa kabuhi sa nagligad nga pito ka dekada, magkaupod man sila nga magabiya.
Agaw-atensyon ang istorya sang mag-asawa bangud sa edad nga 93-anyos, ginpili nila nga mapatay paagi sa duo euthanasia — isa ka growing trend sa Netherlands kun sa diin gamay pa gid lamang nga numero sang mag-asawa ang napasugtan sang otoridad nga dungan nga mapatay paagi sa makamamatay nga bulong ukon droga.
Suno sa Rights Forum, isa ka pro-Palestinian group nga gin-establisar ni van Agt sang 2009, nagtaliwan ang mag-asawa sa ila hometown sa Nijmegen.
Ginpahayag nga naga-uyatay pa sila sang kamot sang iya pinalangga nga asawa sang sila ang nadulaan sang ginhawa.
Dungan man sila nga ginlubong kag nangin pribado ang amo nga hitabo.
Kilala si Van Agt nga prime minister halin sang 1977 tubtub sang 1982 kag siya man ang nangin una nga lider sang Christian Democratic Appeal party sang amo nga pungsod.
Naka-serbe man siya nga ambassador sang European Union sa Japan kag sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Suno naman sa reports sa Dutch media, nagaluya na ang ikaayong lawas sang mag-asawa halin pa sang nagliligad nga tuig.
Sang 2019, nagsuprer ang anay prime minister sang brain hemorrhage samtang nga naga-deliver ini sang speech sa isa ka commemoration event para sa mga Palestinians.
Halin sang amo nga tion, wala ini naka-recover.
Nangin pribado naman ang mga detalye kaangot sa ikaayong lawas ni Eugenie.
Nahibaluan nga yara lamang sa 29 ka mga mag-asawa ang gintugutan nga mapatay paagi sa duo euthanasia sang 2022 sandig sa datos sang Regional Euthanasia Review Committees sang Netherlands.
Ginapanan-aw man sang Dutch organizations nga magdamo pa ini nga numero apisar nga may makit-an sa mga doktor nga pagpangduha-duha sa paghatag sang euthanasia base sa accumulation sang age-related conditions.
Apang santo sa legal guidelines sang pungsod, ginatugutan ini.
Ang assisted suicide ang nagakatabo kun ang tawo mismo ang nagatublok sang lethal dose sa iya kaugalingon samtang yara ang physician, samtang ang euthanasia naman ang nagakatabo kun ang medical professional ang naga-administer sang bulong sa isa ka pasyente.
Pareho ini nga legal sa Netherlands halin pa sang 2002 apang dapat nga may malab-ot nga partikular nga critera.#
Babayi nga bag-o lang nagpaidalom sa plastic surgery, nagtuyo magpalagyo sa ospital bangud wala sang inugbayad
Uso na subong nga may ginapa-liwat ukon mas ginapanami nga parte sa imo nga lawas.
Masami sa aton ginapa-retoke ang yara sa aton nga nawong… para mas guwapa ukon guwapo kita kag magataas ang aton nga confidence sa aton nga kaugalingon.
Wala gid ina sang problema… basta may yara ka lang sang kuwarta!
Apang, indi pwede nga himuon mo ang ginhimo sini nga babayi sa isa ka pribado nga ospital sa Turkey nga nagtuyo kuntani nga magpalagyo pagkatapos sang pagpaidalom sa plastic surgery bangud wala gali ini sang inugbayad sa operasyon!
Sang amo nga tion, nagasuksok pa ang babayi sang hospital robe kag puti nga tsinelas.
Indi kinaandan ang hitabo bangud nagabaisay sila sang mga doktor kag nurse kag ginapilit siya nga indi anay maglakat.
Nakuhaan man sang picture ang babayi nga nagapamanog pa ang iya nga nawong kag natabunan pa sang mga bandages nga buot silingon, bag-o lang ini nakatapos sa extensive plastic surgery.
Wala ginsapubliko ang pangalan kag nationality sang babayi, apang gin-report sang Turkish media nga hungod gid nga nagbyahe ang amo nga babayi sa Turkey bangud gusto sini nga magpaidalom sa cosmetic procedure.
Bangud mahal ang operasyon kag indi makaigu ang iya kuwarta, maga-mato-mato na lang kuntani sa paghalin ang babayi apang sa malain nga palad para sa iya, nakit-an siya sang hospital staff kag didto na ginkumpronta.
Ginpangbuyayaw pa sini pati ang mga doktor kag nurse gamit ang lenggwahe nga indi mahangpan, gani sang ulihi, gintawag ang security kag gin-updan ini pabalik sa ospital kun sa diin magatinir ini tubtub nga ma-settle ang iya nga balayran.#
Hagna agud mahatagan sang ‘heartbreak leave’ ang mga brokenhearted nga empleyado, gin-file sa Kamara
Mabudlay mag-trabaho kun nagapalanakit ang imo likod, batiis, ukon balikawang.
Apang paano naman kun ang may masakit sa imo amo ang imo heart?
Pwede na maka-leave gamit ina nga rason… kun maaprubahan ang hagna nga ginduso sang isa ka mamalidha kun sa diin ginahingyo nga hatagan sang heartbreak leave kag emotional support resources ang mga empleyado nga brokenhearted kag wala pa naka-move on.
Ini ang kaundan sang ginaduso nga Heartbreak Recovery and Resilience Act ukon House Bill 9931 nga gin-file ni Cagayan de Oro City Rep.
Suno kay Suan, ini nga hagna ang maga-address sa importante (apang masami indi masapakan) nga factor kun sa diin may daku gid nga impact sa performance sang empleyado amo man sa iya nga pagpakig-angot sa iban nga mga tawo.
Gintawag ini sa hagna nga “emotional turmoil” nga naangot sa natabo nga “breakup”.
Sa idalom sang sini nga bill, ang kuwalipikado nga mga empleyado nga wala pa naka-25 anyos ang mahimo mahatagan sang isa ka adlaw nga heartbreak leave kada tuig apang wala lang sang bayad.
Sa mga empleyado naman edad 25-35 anyos, mahimo ma-avail ang maximum nga duha ka adlaw nga wala sang bayad nga heartbreak leave kada tuig.
Sa mga nagaedad naman 36-anyos pasaka, mahimo ma-avail ang tatlo ka adlaw nga unpaid heartbreak leave.
Ngaa isa lang ka adlaw ang para sa mga bataon pa nga empleyado?
Rason ni Suan, ang mga mas tigulang ang nagapangatubang sang complex nga family dynamics ukon financial dependencies kun sa diin mas malawig-lawig nga tion ang kinahanglan.
Agud mangin kuwalipikado para sa heartbreak leave, dapat nga maghatag ang employee sa iya employer sang pirmado nga statement kun sa diin nakasaad nga may problema sa romantic relationship sa nagligad nga isa ka bulan.
Dapat man nga may ihatag ang empleyado nga written notice sang intensyon nga i-avail ang heartbreak leave at least 48 ka oras antes ang adlaw sang pag-avail magluwas lamang kun may yara sang mga sirkumstansya nga matabo.
Pagamanduan man ang amo nga mga ahensya nga magtukod sang programa agud nga mag-suporta sa development kag implementasyon sang confidential emotional support programs sa sulod sang mga ulubrahan.#
Husto ina para sa isa ka 100-anyos nga diver nga natalana pa nga magpasakop sa World Aquatics Masters Championships sa Doha, Qatar kun sa diin siya ang pinakatigulang nga maga-compete!
Ini amo si Taghi Askari, isa ka Iranian nga nakadaog sang silver kag bronze medal sa labing-una nga Asian Games sa India sang 1951.
Fast forward subong nga 2024, wala nadula ang passion sini kag nagpasakop na sa exhibition dive sa 2024 World Championships sa Doha antes pa man ang ginakalangkagan nga World Aquatics Masters Championships.
Suno kay Askari, bisan nakit-an niya nga daw naglain na gid man ang iya performancesang 1951 ipaanggid subong nga tigulang na siya, wala gid sang naglain sa iya pagpalangga sa diving.
Daw kaangay suno sa iya nga bata siya liwat kag first time nga nakakita sang swimming pool sa ila balay sa Iran kun sa diin ara man nagatampisaw ang iban nga mga kabataan.
Ini nga eksperyensya ang nagdabok pa sang iya huyog sa pag-dive tubtub nga nagpasakop na ini sa mga kumpetisyon kag nakakuha sang mga medalya kag titulo sa Iran man ukon sa international na nga lebel.
Sa palaabuton nga World Aquatics Masters Championships sa Doha sa masunod nga semana, duha lamang ang advide ni Lolo Askari:
Una, dapat nga palanggaon mo gid ini nga sport, kag ikaduha, dapat nga ipabilin nga healthy ang lawas!#
100-anyos nga diver, magapasakop sa World Aquatics Championship
Una, dapat nga palanggaon mo gid ini nga sport, kag ikaduha, dapat nga ipabilin nga healthy ang lawas!
Kuwarta, nagapanguna sa wish list sang mga Pinoy sa Valentine’s Day —SWS
Duha ka adlaw na lang, Valentine’s Day na!
Nagalibog bala ang imo nga ulo kun ano ang imo nga iregalo sa imo kahagugma ukon special someone?
Ari kay buligan ka sang resulta sang national survey nga ginpatigayon sang Social Weather Stations (SWS) kag ginsapubliko kahapon nga adlaw, Pebrero 11.
Ini nga survey ang ginhimo face-to-face sa 1,200 ka mga adults nationwide: tag-300 sa Metro Manila, Balance Luzon (ukon Luzon sa guwa sang Metro Manila), Visayas, kag Mindanao.
Huo, cash ang kinahanglan sang kadam-an nga na-reflect man sa 16% sa sini nga survey!
Bisan ano nga gift basta halin sa heart: 5%
Sa sini man nga survey, nahibaluan nga 58% sang mga Pinoy ang “very happy” sa ila nga love life.
Ini man suno sa SWS ang pinakamataas nga percentage halin sang na-record ang 59% sang nagligad nga 2011.
Ang survey ang may yara sang sampling error margin nga 2.8% para sa national percentages.#
100-anyos nga Olympic gold medalist, napilian nga mangin torchbearer sa Paris 2024
Nagahilapit na naman ang Olympiada kag pat-od nga kadamo naman sang mga espesyal nga hitabo ang aton bantayan!
Isa diri amo ang oldest living French Olympic medalist nga amo ang magadala sang sulu sa Paris Olympics subong nga tuig.
Ini amo si Charles Coste, isa ka cyclist nga nagtungtong na sa edad nga 100-anyos sang nagligad lamang nga Pebrero 8.
Nabun-ag siya sang 1924 ukon ang tuig nga katapusan nga nangin host ang Paris sa Summer Olympics.
Kilala si Coste nga nagdaog sang track cycling Olympic gold kaupod sa tatlo ka iban pa nga sanday Pierre Adam, Serge Blusson kag Fernand Decanali sang 1948 Summer Games nga ginpatigayon sa London, United Kingdom.
Malawig ang lista sang mga medalya nga naangkon sini nga nakuha pagkatapos sang Olympiada lakip na ang medalya nga hatag mismo ni anay President Vincent Auriol.
Apang para kay Charles, ang pinaka-malahalon nga medalya nga iya nabaton amo ang halin sa Olympics.
Ginsiling sini nga sang nagkampyon sila sang 1948, gamay lamang ang podium, nabutang pa ang medalya sa box kag wala ginpasuksok sa ila liog, kag indi kaangay sa nakaandan nga iga-play ang national anthem sang pungsod nga ginhalinan sang winner, wala man na-play ang national anthem sang France sang amo nga tion bangud indi makit-an sang organizers ang disc.
Labaw sa tanan, ginakabig man nila nga break ang Olympiada sang amo nga tuig bangud amo ini ang tion kun sa diin may food ration tickets pa sila kasunod sang World War II.
Bugal man para kay Charles kag sa iya mga kaupdanan nga irepresentar ang France sang 1948 nga lima ka tuig pa lamang nga nahilway gikan sa German occupation.
Sa maabot nga Summer Games, may gamay nga pagpangduha-duha ang amo nga cycling legend bangud nagapalanakit ang iya tuhod, apang isa lang ang iya sigurado: bugal para sa iya nga himuon ini kag handurawon ang nagligad sang sila pa ang naga-compete para sa ila pinalangga nga nasyon.#
Babayi nga ginbayaan sang partner, nagpahubog, nang-bangga sang mga motorista
Madamo nga mga tawo ang naga-palangga… apang indi tanan, gina-palangga man pabalik.
Kun ikaw nagpalangga apang sang ulihi nasakitan, ano ang imo ginahimo?
Lain-lain man ang aton coping mechanism ukon paagi sa pag-move on, apang may ara man dira nga makatuga na sang halit sa iban.
Kaangay sini nga babayi sa Project 6, Quezon City nga nagpahubog kag nagmaoy bangud nga gin-bulagan ini sang iya nga partner.
Nakit-an gid mismo sa Closed Circuit Television camera kun paano nag-wild ang 27-anyos nga babayi.
Naga-ekis-ekis ini sa dalan kag ginabato pa sang tsinelas ang pila sa mga nagalabay nga motorista.
Sang nag-abot naman ang mga opisyal sang barangay, ginsipa niya ang isa samtang ginkagat man sini ang kamot kag kilid sang isa ka barangay kagawad.
Sang ulihi, nag-responde na gid ang pulis kag napilitan nga dal-on ang amo nga babayi bangud sa gamo nga iya ginhimo.
Sang naumpawan na ini sa iya kahulugbon, tuman man ang iya nga paghinulsol kag depensa nga nadula lang siya sa husto nga paminsaron bangud sa iya gin-inom nga resulta man sang iya pagka-brokenhearted.
Nag-sorry man ini sa iya ginpanghaboy kag ginpangkagat.
Apang bangud indi na sini mabalik ang iya ginhimo nga eskandalo, nagpangatubang gid ang babayi sang lain-lain nga mga reklamo lakip na ang Alarms and Scandals, kag Resistance and Disobedience, kag Direct Assault upon an Agent of Person in Authority.
Kustomer nga indi kumporme sa iya haircut, wala nagbayad, ginguntingan man ang barbero bilang balos
May mga tion gid nga indi kita kumporme sa aton nga gunting ilabi na kun lain nga barbero ang nagapangamot sa aton nga buhok.
Kun amo sini ang sitwasyon, ano ang imo nga ginahimo?
Gina-ugtom mo bala ang kalain sang buot, ukon indi ka mahim-os tubtub indi ka makabalos?
Sa Pattaya, Thailand, agaw-atensyon gid ang isa ka turista nga puerte ang singkal sang kaakig sang wala nagsanto ang iya haircut sa gusto sini makit-an sa espiho!
Ini nga Russian tourist ang nagmato-mato sulod sa isa ka barbershop kag bangud wala sang makahangop sa iya panghambal kag wala man ini naga-English, gin-senyas-senyas lamang sini sa barbero kun ano nga iya luyag nga haircut.
Sang natapos na kag ginlantaw na sini sa espiho ang iya itsura, gulpi ini nga nag-huramentado, makapila ka beses nga ginsumbag ang lamesa, kag ginbuyayaw man sini ang naggunting sa iya.
Sang ulihi, ginpudyot sini ang gunting kag siya mismo ang nag-utod sa buhok sang barbero antes ini nagdali-dali guwa sa barbershop nga wala gid sang ginbilin nga bayad.
Suno sa 32-anyos nga barbero nga ginhingadlan nga si Suphachai, naakig man siya sa ginhimo sang turista apang wala na siya nagbalos bangud ginapaminsar gid niya kun ano ang matabo sa iya pananglitan magbato siya — una, posible nga makasuhan siya, kag ikaduha, posible nga madulaan man siya sang obra.
Napilitan man si Suphachai nga i-shave na lamang ang iya bilog nga ulo, bangud daw pal-ak lantawon ang iya gunting nga kahimuan sang turista.
May ginpasaka man nga reklamo sa local police kag nagalaum siya nga makabati sang bisan sorry lang kuntani halin sa kustomer — tinaga nga imposible na sini nga mabatian ilabi na bangud nagbiya na sa Thailand ang amo nga turista.#
Fishbone beach sa Japan, indi puti nga balas kundi mga bukog sang minilyon nga isda ang imo pungkuan kag higdaan
ILOILO CITY- Ka-Bombo, halos tanan siguro sa aton naga-enjoy gid nga magpadulong sa beach ilabi na kun puti ang balas bangud gusto naton nga magpungko- pungko kag maghigda-higda diri.
Apang paano kun ang ginahigdaan mo gali nga sa imo pagdumdom, puti nga balas, mga napudpod nga tul-an gali?
May isa ka beach didto sa Hakodate City, sa Hokkaido Prefecture, sa Japan nga ginbansagan nga ‘Fishbone Beach’ bangud nga halos natabunan ini sang madamol nga layer sang tul-an sang mga isda.
Ang natabo, Disyembre sang nagligad nga tuig, gin-anod pahigad sang baybay ang linibo ka tonelada sang patay nga isda kag ginaangot nila ini sa pag-release sang treated water halin sa Fukushima nuclear plant pakadto sa kadagatan apang ini nga teorya ang ginakontra man sang iban.
Kapin sa 80 percent sang patay nga isda ang sardines kag ang iban amo ang mackerel.
Sa sulod sang pila ka bulan, halos natampukan sang tul-an sang sini nga mga isda ang 1.5 km nga kalabaon sang baybayon.
Sa subong, madamo nga tawo ang nagapadulong diri, apang indi agud magpaligo kundi lantawon ang nasambit nga beach nga kaangay sang graveyard sang mga patay nga isda.
Demi Lovato, gina-kwestyon bangud sa pagkanta sang ‘Heart Attack’ sa isa ka heart disease event
Nabutang sa sentro sang kontrobersiya ang American singer kag songwriter nga si Demi Lovato bangud sa iya pagkanta sang iya hit song nga Heart Attack … sa isa ka cardiovascular disease event sa New York City!
Apisar madamo ang nanamian sang amo nga kanta, gina-kwestyon man kun ngaa amo sini ang iya ginpili nga i-perform sa event sang American Heart Association kun sa diin may sakit sa korason ang mga tawo.
Naglapaw sa isa ka milyon ang naglantaw sa video nga gin-post kasunod sang amo nga performance sa Go Red for Women Red Dress Collection.
Madamo ang nagmuno nga daw wala gid ginpanumduman sang maayo sang singer ang iya kantahon ilabi na bangud sang lyrics sini nga: “So I’m putting my defenses up / ‘Cause I don’t wanna fall in love / If I ever did that, I think I’d have a heart attack.”
Apang, lipod sa ihibalo sang fans nga indi present sa amo nga event, may yara sang introduction speech si Lovato kun sa diin nagpanugid ini nga nakaluwas siya sa heart attack sang 2018 kasunod sang drug overdose.
Ginlaragway pa sang representative nga isa ka “beautiful moment” ang natabo sa amo nga cardiovascular event.#
Babayi nga nagapanag-iya sang mga truck, nagbutang sang GPS trackers sa police patrol cars agud mahapos nga makapalagyo
May isa ka babayi sa China nga feeling niya, alam-alam na gid siya kag mas maabtik pa ang pinsar ipaanggid sa mga pulis!
Ini bangud ginbutangan niya sang global positioning system ukon GPS tracking devices ang mga patrol cars sang pulis sa iya nga lugar agud mahibaluan niya kun sa diin ang ila nga ruta kag malikawan nga masugata sang iya ginapanag-iyahan nga mga truck.
Ini nga babayi nga si Zhu ang residente sang Xiangyang, Hubei province kag nagapanag-iya sang trucking company.
Nakapoy na ini sa mga multa sa iya kun madakpan sang mga pulis nga may violation ang iya ginapanag-iyahan nga mga truck.
Ini ang rason nga sang naka-tyamba siya kag nakit-an nga naga-park ang mga police patrol cars sa Xiangzhou station, ginbutangan niya ini sang tracking device.
Gin-career gid niya ini bangud nagbakal pa siya sang anum ka magnetic nga trackers online.
Sa sulod sang pila ka bulan, nangin madinalag-on ang iya plano kag nalikawan niya ang mga pulis rason nga wala namultahan ang iya mga truck.
Apang wala ini nagdugay bangud natukiban sang mga pulis kadungan sang routine checkup nga may yara sang makaduluda nga itom nga box sa ila nga patrol car.
Sang gin-usisa, nahibaluan nga tracker ini kag nakabutang pa gid sa iban nila nga mga salakyan.
Paagi man sa amo nga tracking devices nadakpan ang babayi kag gindagdagan sang penalidad nga walo ka adlaw nga administrative detention kag $70 ukon malapit P4,000 nga multa.
Maswerte na ang babayi bangud sa amo lang nga multa, bangud pananglitan sa Western world ini natabo, indi basta-basta nga multa ang iya atubangon bangud sa seryoso nga krimen nga iya nahimo.#
Asawa, nag-file sang divorce bangud talagsa lang nagapaligo ang iya bana
Indi happy ending ang natabo sa mag-asawa sa Turkey bangud sa reklamo sang asawa nga wala nagapaligo ang iya bana kag masami lang nagapanimaho sang balhas!
Nag-file sang divorce ang babayi sa rason nga indi na gid sini maagwantahan nga mag-upod sa iya bana.
Ginpahayag pa sang abogado sang babayi sa 19th Family Court sa Ankara nga halos isa lang ka bayo ang gina-sulit-sulit suksok sang lalaki sa sulod sang isa ka semana, daw nahadlok nga maligo, kag malaka man nga naga-toothbrush.
Nagdala pa sila sang mga testigo nga amo man ang ila nga mga kakilala kag mangin mga katrabaho sang lalaki.
Palareho ang ila statement nga nagasuporta sa reklamo sang asawa.
Sang ulihi, gin-aprubahan sang korte ang request para sa divorce kag ginmanduan man ang lalaki nga magbayad sang $16,500 ukon P924,800 bilang kumpensasyon sa iya asawa nga nag-agwanta sa pag-upod sa iya bisan pa nga wala siya nagapaligo.
Sa idalom sang Turkish civil law, na-tunga sa duha ka kategorya ang mahimo mabaton nga rason para sa divorce — una, ang special reasons; kag ikaduha, ang general reasons.
Sa sini nga partikular nga kaso, ang poor personal hygiene sang bana ang makabig nga valid ground para sa divorce.
Final naman ang recent verdict nga ginpaguwa sang Regional Court of Justice kag Supreme Court of Appeals sa amo nga pungsod.#
Isa ka babayi, nakahimo sang world record sang nagpahulom sa ice sa masobra tatlo ka oras
Subong nga Enero, puerte kalamig kun magbangon ikaw sa aga.
Ano pa gid ayhan kun pahulumon ikaw sa ice?
Pinasahi ini nga babayi sa Poland nga nang-guba sang world records bangud sa iya pagtinir sang tatlo ka oras, anum ka minutos, kag 45 segundos samtang nagatindog sa sulod sang box nga puno sang ice.
Tubtub sa iya liog ang ice gani ma-imagine mo kun ano ini katugnaw!
Apang ini ang rason kun ngaa ginauyatan na sini subong ang Guinness World Record.
Ini amo si Katarzyna Jakubowska, 48, nga kilala nga nag-set sang longest duration full body contact with ice (female-category).
Ang male version sa sini nga rekord ang nakalawig sang 3 hours, 11 minutes and 27 seconds nga nahimo naman sang Polish nga si Krzysztof Gajewski.
Pahayag ni Katarzyna, pamatuod ini sang kusog sang mga babayi.
Antes ang pagsabak sa challenge, nagpaidalom si Katarzyna sa medical tests agud masiguro nga indi maapektuhan ang iya ikaayong lawas.
Naghimo ini sang tatlo ka practice attempts kag gin-monitor gid sang maayo ang iya nga body temperature fluctuations.
Ang iban nga preparasyon sini amo ang treatments kaangay sang hyperbaric oxygen therapy kag masahe amo man ang self-hypnosis.#
$2.8-million nga manggad, ginbilin sang isa ka babayi sa iya kuring kag ido
Sa masami, kun may manggad ang ginikanan antes sila magtaliwan, ginatugyan gid nila ini sa ila nga mga kabataan ukon bisan sa ila pinakamalapit nga mga paryente kag abyan nga ila masaligan.
Pinasahi kag masakit ang natabo sa China kun sa diin nag-desisyon ang isa ka tigulang nga babayi nga ibilin ang iya $2.8-million ukon P157.7-million sa iya nga mga hinuptanan nga ido kag kuring.
Ini bangud suno sa iya, wala gid nagbiya sa iya nga tupad ang iya mga hinuptanan — indi kaangay sa iya tatlo ka mga kabataan nga nagbalewala sang iya mga kinahanglanon.
Sang una, gintunga-tunga man sang tigulang ang iya nga manggad para sa tatlo ka bata, apang naglain ang iya nga desisyon, bangud wala gid nagbisita ang mga bata sa iya kag wala man sang ginpadala nga magtatap sa iya sang siya ang nagamasakit.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa nga ginpaislan sini ang iya nga last will kag gintugyan na lang sa mga sapat ang iya minilyon ka pesos nga kuwarta.
Sa China, ginadumilian ang pagbilin sang possession direkta sa mga sapat, gani sa bulig sang iya mga abogado, nakapangita sang paagi ang babayi kag nag-appoint sang veterinary clinic nga amo ang mangin administrador sang iya manggad kag magatatap sang iya mga sapat.
Nagpanugyan naman ang Will Registration Centre headquarters sa Beijing nga mag-appoint ang babayi sang tawo nga iya gid ginasaligan agud nga mag-supervise sa veterinary clinic kag indi mabutang sa risgo ang iya manggad.
Mga espiho sa pila ka eskwelahan sa US, ginpangkakas agud mapunggan ang mga estudyante nga busy sa ila TikTok videos
Guilty ka man sa masami nga pag-picture picture kun may makit-an ikaw nga espiho?
Madamo gid sa aton ang nanamian sa mirror selfies, ilabi na kun feel na feel gid naton ang aton OOTD ukon ang aton nga Outfit of the Day!
Sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika, ginpangkakas na ini nga mga espiho sa mga restroom sa rason nga nagabalik-balik ang mga estudyante kag nagakadugayan bangud sa ila pag-video-video sang ila nga mga saot!
Sa average suno sa opisyal sang eskwelahan, tag-apat lamang ka beses nga naga-guwa ang estudyante agud nga magkadto sa CR.
Apang sang ulihi, natalupangdan sang mga manunulo nga daw naga-pito tubtub siyam ka beses gid nga naga-guwa ang ila estudyante kag nagakadugayan pa antes magbalik.
Bangud natukiban nga nanamian gali ang mga estudyante nga mag-shoot sang ila TikTok videos sa mga espiho sa restroom, ginpangkakas ini sang eskwelahan sang nagligad lamang nga semana.
Natabo man ini sa Piedmont Triad Middle School nga yara man gihapon sa state sang North Carolina.
Suno sa eskwelahan, positibo ang resulta sang ginpangkuha nila ang mga espiho sa ila restrooms bangud wala sang nagapakadto-pakari nga mga estudyante agud mag-CR kag wala sang nagapalawig sa sulod.
Ginmensyonar man sang eskwelahan nga may yara sila sang active approach agud nga tudluan ang ila nga mga estudyante kaangot sa digital citizenship” agud nga mapahangop sa mga bata kun san-o dapat gamiton ang cellphone kag san-o ini ipahigad agud pasulabihon ang mas importante nga mga bagay kaangay sang pagtuon.#
Lalaki nga naigo sang bala sang pusil sa ulo, apat ka adlaw pa nga nag-party-party antes nadiskubrehan ang natabo sa iya
ILOILO CITY- Paandam anay kay ang aton balita espesyal may pagka-sensitibo ang kaundan.
Isa sa pinakadelikado nga maigo sang bala amo ang ulo sang tawo.
Milagro na gid lang kun makasalbar ang tawo nga naigo sang bala sa ulo.
Kag kun matuod gid man ang milagro, ehemplo diri ang isa ka lalaki sa Brazil.
Natabo ini sang sini damlag lang sang ang 21-anyos nga si Mateus Facio ang naga-party sa isa ka bar kag sang hinali lang, may nabatian ini nga matunog nga gahod kaangay sang lupok nga ginsundan sang paghapdi sang parte sang iya ulo.
Didto na nagtulo ang dugo kag ginbuligan siya sang iban nga tawo nga hatagan ini sang atensyon- medical.
Sa iya pagdumdom, naigo lamang siya sang bato rason nga sang nagbiya na ini sa bar, nangin normal lamang ang iya ginhimo- nakigkita siya sa mga abyan, kag nagasulod sa trabaho, kag nagpary-party gihapon sa sulod sang apat ka adlaw.
Apang sa ikaapat nga adlaw, didto na niya nabatyagan nga may yara sang indi kinaandan sa iya lawas-nagpalangluya ini gani gindala siya sa ospital kag didto na natukiban nga may bala gali sang pusil sa iya ulo rason nga ginpaidalom ini gilayon sa operasyon.
Halos indi naman makapati ang mga doktor kag amo man ang pamilya ni Mateus sa milagro nga natabo sa iya.
Rapper nga nakapabusong sang lima ka mga babayi, naghiwat sang dulungan nga baby shower!
Masami nga nagalab-ot gid sa breakup kun mahibaluan sang isa ka babayi ukon lalaki nga may ginatabo kag may karelasyon nga iban ang iya nobya ukon nobyo.
Pananglitan makapabusong pa gid ang lalaki sa iban nga babayi, doble-doble pa gid ang kasakit bangud lain na nga lebel ini sang pagluib.
Apang sa New York City, nakapukaw sang atensyon sang tanan ang ginhimo nga baby shower sang 22-anyos rapper kag soon to be daddy nga si Zeddy Will.
Indi lang abi para sa isa ka bata ang baby shower kundi para sa lima bangud lima man ka mga babayi ang iya dungan nga napabusong!
Ginpatigayon ang baby shower subong lamang nga Enero.
Nag-upod pa sa isa lamang ka laragway si Will kag ang lima ka moms-to-be kag amo sini ang ginbutang sa ila nga invitation: “Welcome little Zeddy Wills 1-5.”
Isa ka partner ni Zeddy nga si Lizzy Ashliegh, 29, ang nagshare nga cool lamang ang ila nga relasyon kaupod sa apat ka iban pa nga mga babayi nga iya gintawag nga “Sister Wives”.
May yara man sila sang “untraditional family” photo sa guwa sang venue.
Ang iban pa nga mangin soon to be mommies amo sanday Bonnie B, Kay Merie, Jylene Vila, kag Iyanla Kalifa Galletti.
Gin-share ni Ashliegh nga nabaton nila ang isa kag isa bangud mas maayo man nga magdaku ang ila kabataan sa mas daku nga pamilya.
“Look at our beautiful family!” caption sini sa isa sa mga laragway.
Pasahero sang isa ka eroplano sa India, na-trap sa CR sa bilog nga flight
Kun ikaw first-timer sa pagbyahe sakay sa eroplano, isa gid sa ginakalangkagan mo ang pagpanghangaw-hangaw sa mga panganod, pag-enjoy sa sunrise ukon sunset, ukon bisan pa pag-inom-inom sa imo kape samtang nagahulat nga makaabot sa imo destinasyon.
Kun naanad ka naman sa eroplano, siguro gusto mo lang magpahuway ukon magpiyong-piyong samtang naga-byahe.
Apang wala gid siguro sang nanamian nga magtinir sa comfort room sa bilog nga byahe, ilabi na kun masobra sa isa ka oras!
Pero amo sini ang natabo sa isa ka pasahero sa India sang nagsulod ini sa comfort room, apang wala na naka-guwa bangud sa pag-malfunction sang puertahan!
Halin ang lalaki sa syudad sang Mumbai kag pakadto kuntani sa syudad sang Bengaluru — byahe nga nagalawig sang 105 minutos.
Naghalin sila sa Mumbai sang pasado las dos sa kaagahon.
Ginpahayag nga nakapadala man ang pasahero sang distress call kag naghulag man ang crew agud buligan siya sa sulod sang CR apang indi gid mabuksan ang lock.
Sang ulihi, may ginpalusot nga gamay sa papel sa comfort room kun sa diin ginsilingan ang pasahero nga indi mabuksan ang puertahan apang indi ini dapat mag-panic.
Gin-abisuhan man ang pasahero nga magpungko lamang bangud kun makahugpa na ang eroplano, magatawag sila sang engineer agud mabuksan ang puerta.
Sang nag-abot na sa airport, ginpasulod matuod ang duha ka engineer kag ila ginguba ang puerta.
Ginpahayag nga yara sa state of shock ang lalaki kag ginhatagan man ini sang medical support.
Nagtanyag man ang airline company sang full refund bangud indi nangin maayo ang eksperyensya sini sa byahe.
Wala na sang madamo nga detalye nga ginpaguwa ang airline apang nag-isyu ini sang public apology bangud sa amo nga hitabo.
Wartime wedding: Magkahagugma sa Gaza, nagpakasal apisar sang padayon nga giyera
Lain ang gahum sang gugma — ano man nga tion kag bisan diin man nga lugar, may ginahimo gid ini nga mahika.
Kaangay sang magkahagugma sa Gaza nga pareho nga nagtalal-as sa ila nga lugar sa Palestine sang nagtimalos na ang Israel kag naglunsar sang aistrikes bangud sa kaakig sini sa ginhimo sang Hamas militants sang Oktubre 7.
Sang amo nga tion, naguba gid ang balay ni Mohammed al-Ghandour kag sang iya nobya nga si Shahad.
Nadulaan man sila sang mga pinalangga sa kabuhi kag sang amo nga tion, daw sigurado na gid nga indi na madayon ang ila ginahandum nga kasal.
Lakip sila sa ginpunsok sa “tent city” ukon ang lugar sa Rafah sa southern nga bahin sang Gaza malapit sa Egypt kun sa diin linibo ka mga tents ang naka-plastar nga amo ang puluy-an sang mga tawo sa sulod na sang binulan nga gyera.
Bisan amo sini ang sitwasyon, gintinguhaan gid ni Ghandour nga makasal sila ni Shahad.
Sa bulig sang ila pamilya, nadekorahan sang lights ang tent kag ginpasuukan man ang bride sang puti nga bayo nga disente para sa kasal.
Sa sulod man mismo sang tent ginpasuksokan sang singsing ang bride nga amo ang tanda sang ila paghigugma nga wala sang katapusan.
Nagpanguna man ang iloy ni Shahad sa mga babayi nga nag-selebrar sang ila kasal kag may yara man sang nag-kinot sang ila batteries agud nga may yara sila sang gamiton para sa gamay nga portable music player.
Limitado ang pagkaon sa amo nga lugar gani kuntento na ang bride kag groom sa snaks nga nakabutang sa plastic nga nakaplastar sa sulod sang tent.
Samtang may gamay nga wedding party kag may matunog nga nagapalakpak, padayon naman ang iban nga mga tawo sa kaiping nga tents sa ila nga mga ulubrahon kaangay sang pagpangita sang pagkaon kag pagpanglaba.
Gin-ako sang groom nga kasunod sang mga hitabo sa gyera, halos tres porsyento lang gid ang iya kalipay nga nabatyagan apang luyag gid sini nga mangin malipayon ang iya asawa rason nga gindayon ang kasal.
Nahibaluan nga sandig sa data sa Paletinian health authorities, lapaw na sa 24,700 ang napatay sa Gaza halin sang naglunsar ang Israel sang airstrikes bilang balos sa Hamas militants nga amo ang nagpatay sang masobra man 1,200 ka tawo sa southern Israel.# (AFP)
Isa ka babayi, gin-arkilahan ang bilog nga sinehan agud isahanon nga makalantaw sang pelikula
Madamo kita sang mga bagay nga “indi mahimo” bangud sang aton nga kahuya.
Sa pihak nga bahin, madamo man kita sang mga bagay nga “sarang mahimo” bangud sa amo man nga rason — ang aton nga kahuya.
Sa Malaysia, ginapiyestahan ang video sang isa ka babayi nga nagbayad sa bilog nga sinehan agud indi mapasulod ang iban nga mga tawo samtang nagalantaw siya sang pelikula.
Ginkilala ang babayi nga si Eriyca Baiduri, isa ka Malaysian influencer.
Makit-an sa video nga nagapungko si Eriyca sa cinema hall samtang nagakaon sang popcorn kag nagahulat nga magsugod na ang pelikula.
Bangud ginbakal niya ang tanan nga tickets sa sinehan, makit-an nga wala sang tawo sa 10 ka raya sang bangko kun sa diin tag-16 kuntani ka indibidwal ang ma-cater sa kada row.
Pahayag pa ni Eriyka, isa siya ka introvert rason nga ginbakal niya ang tanan nga pulungkuan bangud indi siya gusto mag-upod sa iban.
Madamo naman ang nagmuno nga nagapadayaw-dayaw ini bangud manggaranon; samtang may iban naman nga nagasiling nga kun may kuwarta man sila, himuon man nila ini agud makalikaw sa gahod sang iban nga mga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga kada ticket sa Malaysia ang nagabili sang P132 tubtub sa P418.#
Kompaniya, ginsaylo ang ila opisina sa bukid agud mabudlayan ang mga empleyado kag mapilitan nga mag-resign
ILOILO CITY- Sa masami, ang empleyado nalang ang nagapangita sang paagi agud nga mag-resign ini sa iya ginaubrahan.
Apang, may ara sang isa ka kompaniya nga ini mismo ang nangita sang paagi agud nga mag-resign ang iya mga empleyado.
Didto ini sa Shanxi Province sa China kun sa diin may yara sang isa ka advertising agency nga nagsaylo sang ila opisina sa tuman ka layo nga lugar sa putok-putokan sang bukid agud mabudlayan ang ila mga empleyado nga magpadulong didto bangud limitado lamang ang salakyan.
Ang natabo, matapos ang pila ka semana, sa 20 nga mga empleyado, abaw, 14 gid ang nag-resign.
Sang nag-resign na ang mga empleyado, isa pa gid ka, abaw, kay nagbalik na sa ila orihinal nga opisina ang kompaniya.
Suno sa mga empleyado, kaangay nga ginhungod gid sand kompaniya ang ila ginhimo agud maghalin ang nasambit nga mga employees kag makalikaw sila sa paghatag sang ila kompensasyon.
Sa subong, gindangop na sang mga nag-resign nga empleyado sa korte ang ila reklamo bangud sa ginhimo sang kompaniya.
High life: Isa ka pamilya sa China, nagbiya sa ila balay kag nagpuyo sa luxury hotel
Kun petsa de peligro na gani ukon daw kabos ka na gid sa kuwarta, ang masami mo mabatian amo nga: “Abi pagpahimunong ka sa balay ninyo!”
Kun ara ka abi sa balay, indi ka na makagasto… siling nila.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga may pamilya nga nagbiya sa ila balay bangud sa sobra nga gasto—kag nakahibalo ka pa gid kun ano ang ginhimo?
Nagpuyo sila sa isa ka hotel bangud ila ginpahayag nga mas makakinot sila sa hotel ipaanggid kun yara sila sa balay!
Ang ila napili nga luxury hotel suite ang nahatang sa syudad sang Nanyang sa probinsya sang Henan.
Masobra 200 na sila ka adlaw nga nagatinir sa amo nga hotel kun sa diin lapaw na sa P7,800 kada adlaw ang ila ginabayara.
Ginpahayag nga komportable sila nga walo sa hotel ilabi na bangud may yara sila sa living room kag duha ka kuwarto.
Kumpleto man sila sa pagkaon, water bottles, toiletries, kag iban pa nga mga suplay.
Pahayag ni Mu Xue nga isa ka family member, may long-term rental rate nga ginahatag ang hotel sa ila nga all-inclusive stay, buot silingon, indi na kinahanglan ang dugang nga bayad para sa parking, heating, water, kag electricity.
Wala sang available nga data kaagot sa cost of living sa Nanyang, apang ang average rent naman para sa apartment kag duha ka kuwarto sa Shanghai ang nagalab-ot sa 20,000 yuan (P156,967) kada bulan.
Sa isa ka separado nga interview sa China, ginpahayag man ni Mu nga nagapanag-iya sang anum ka mga propiedad ang ila pamilya gani wala sang problema sa ila nga financial health.#
69-anyos nga lola, official candidate sang Miss Universe Philippines- Quezon City
ILOILO CITY- Agaw- eksena subong ang isa ka lola sa Quezon City.
Indi lang bangud nga gwapa siya, maputi kag sexy.
Kandidata man siya sa Miss Universe Philippines Quezon City.
Suno kay Jocelyn, nagpasakop siya sa pageant bangud nagapati ini nga madamo sang matun-an sa iya ang younger generation bangud sa iya mga inagihan sa kabuhi.
Pahayag ni Jocelyn, halin sang bata pa siya, handom na niya nga mag-compete sa Miss Universe.
Sa pagkamatuod, sang 2017, gintiglawas na niya ang Pilipinas sa Mrs Universe 2017 kag nakuha pa ang Mother of the Universe Award.
Nahibaluan nga humalin sang ginbakal sang Thai transgender nga si Ann Jakrajutatip ang Miss Universe, gindula na ang age requirement gani mas madamo na ang nahatagan sang kahigayunan nga mahatagan katumanan ang ila handom nga mangin pinakamatahum nga babaye sa uniberso.
P222,000 nga cash sang furparents, ginkaon sang ila ido
Nagalalain ang mag-asawa sa Pennsylvania sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika matapos nangindulaan ang ila bag-o gid lamang na-withdraw nga kuwarta nga sang ulihi natukiban nga ginpang-kaon gali sang ila nga ido!
Ang suspek sa amo nga insidente amo ang pito ka tuig nga ido nga si Cecil, isa ka Goldendoodle nga masami naga-behave gid suno sa iya mga tag-iya nga sanday Clayton kag Carrie Law.
Apang nagbag-o ang tanan sang isa ka adlaw, ginbutang sang duha ang ila $4,000 ukon P222,000 nga cash sa kusina nga bag-o gid lamang nakuha halin sa ila nga joint savings account.
30 minutos ang makaligad, indi na halos makahibalo ang duha sa ila nga himuon bangud gisi na ang tanan nga kuwarta bangud ginpang-gus-ab ini sang ila nga ido.
Gilayon nga gindala si Cecil sa veterinarian bangud basi nagakinahanglan ini sang medical treatment apang bangud sang iya nga kadakuon, nag-abiso ang doktor nga i-monitor lang ini sang maayo sa ila nga balay.
Daw nahaw-asan man ang mag-asawa bangud nagsiling ang bangko nga mahimo mabayluhan ang kuwarta kun kit-anon man ang serial numbers sa bills.
Dali-dali man nga ginpangtipon ang tanan nga mapuslan pa nga bills pati na ang mga papel nga nakuha na sa suka kag higko sang ido.
Sang ulihi, lab-ot lamang sa $450 (P25,000) ang nadula sa couple bangud indi na gid ini mapuslan, samtang may nabilin naman sa ila nga $3,550 (197,000).
Apisar sini, ginsiling sang duha nga wala sila naakig sa ila hinuptanan: “We couldn’t be mad at him — he’s a very lovable dog.
Eksperto, ginpaathag kun ngaa nahadlok ang kuring sa cucumber
ILOILO CITY- Ka-Bombo, may kuring kamo nga hinuptanan?
Natilawan na ninyo nga magbutang sang pepino sa kilid sang kuring agud hibaluon ang iya reaksyon?
Ngaa bala nahadlok sa pepino ang kuring?
Suno kay Jill Goldman, isa ka certified animal behaviourist, ang cucumbers amo ang naga-trigger sang natural nga reflexes sang cats.
Kun makita sang kuring ang pepino, ang una nga himuon niya amo ang magpalagyo sang madasig agud magpalayo sa pepino.
Ini bangud nga ginaangot sang mga kuring ang pepino sa mga man-og bangud sa itsura sini.
Siempre, nahadlok ang mga kuring sa man-og bangud makamamatay ini nga predator.
Driver nga anum ka adlaw nga na-trap sa iya salakyan matapos nahulog sa taytay, nakaluwas
Milagro nga nahatagan liwat sang ikaduha nga tyansa nga mabuhi ang isa ka lalaki matapos anum ka adlaw nga na-trap sa iya salakyan nga nahulog sa idalom sang taytay.
Natabo ini kay Matthew Reum, 27, residente sang Mishawaka, Indiana sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Sang Disyembre 20, samtang nagamaneho si Reum, wala sini na-kontrol ang iya pick-up kag nahulog gid sa pil-as, nagligid sang pila ka beses, kag halos wasak na sang nagtupa sa idalom sang taytay.
Nakaposisyon ang pickup sa area nga indi ini madasig nga ma-notisyaran rason nga bisan ano ka singgit ni Reum, wala gid sang nakabulig sa iya.
Halos madulaan na ini sang paglaum bangud indi man niya malab-ot ang iya cellphone kag indi siya maka-kontak sa iya pamilya kag mga abyan.
Suno sa Indiana State Police, anum ka adlaw ang ginlawig ni Reum nga nakabarikutot lang sa sulod sang salakyan kag nagainom lang sang tubig-ulan.
Sang Disyembre 26, isa ka adlaw pagkatapos sang Paskuwa, may duha ka lalaki nga nagpaliwa-liwa kag naghagaday nga magpangisda samtang nagahulat sila sa ila nga mga asawa.
Didto kag ila nanotisyaran nga may maga-idlak sa idalom sang taytay, kag sang ginpalapitan, wasak ini nga pickup nga may sulod pa nga tawo.
Suno sa nakakita nga si Mario Garcia, 60, ginpinsar niya nga patay na ang lalaki apang sang gintandog niya ang abaga sini, amo na lang ang iya kakibot nga naghulag si Reum kag nakahambal pa.
Gin-airlift si Reum kag gindala sa ospital bangud sa iya mga samad nga delikado suno sa pulis kag posible gid nga iya ikamatay kun wala ini gilayon nakit-an.
Gindugang man sang pulis nga pananglitan nagtinir pa si Reum sang isa pa gid ka gab-i sa amo nga salakyan sa idalom sang taytay, posible nga indi na masarangan sang lawas sini ang temperatura.
Gin-utod ang tiil sini kag nagapabilin subong sa intensive care suno sa Boilermakers Local 374 union.
Sa subong, nagapabilin nga kritikal ang kondisyon sang pasyente.
Vase nga ginbakal sang masobra P200 sa isa ka ukay-ukay, ginbaligya sang masobra P5 million sa isa ka auction
Kita nga mga Pilipino, mahilig gid magbakal sang gamit sa ukay-ukay.
Kun kaisa, maswerte kita kun high quality ang aton nga mabakal sa tuman ka barato nga presyo.
Kaangay na lamang sa iya ka babayi nga nangin instant millionaire bangud nga nagbakal lamang sang vase sa ukay-ukay.
Si Jessica Vincent, isa ka 43 anyos nga horse trainer ang nagbakal sang vase nagikan sa isa ka thrift store sa balor nga P220.
Apang wala niya nahibaluan nga ang tuman ka simple nga vase ang may mga tinaga nga “Murano” kag “Italia” sa iya base nga gin-produce sang isa ka kilala nga glass company kag gindesinyo ni Carlo Scarpa nga isa ka top Italian architect sang mid-20th century.
Matapos nga ginpakigbahin ni Vincent ang litrato sang vase sa iya social media account, may nag-comment nga tuman ka laka sang amo nga vase kag sigurado gid nga madamo ang magabakal nga collector.
Didto kag gin-refer siya sa Wright Auction House sa Chicago kag ginbakal sang isa ka Italian.
Sa P5.9 million nga balor sang vase, P1.3 million ang nagpadulong sa auction house samtang gindala niya pauli ang P4.6 million.
Pahayag niya, nagalaum siya nga ang vase ang ma-display sa isa ka museum sa pila ka adlaw.
Anum ka tuig nga bata, ginpasakay sa lain nga eroplano, lain nga destinasyon ang natup-an
Iban sa aton ang nakulbaan magbyahe nga naga-isahanon, apang ano pa gid abi kun naglakat ka nga isahanon apang nagtupa ka sa lain nga destinasyon?
Imagine pa gid kun matabo ini sa imo samtang ikaw naga-edad pa lamang sang anum ka tuig.
Napuno subong sang reklamo ang Spirit Airlines sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika matapos sini nabutang ang isa ka anum ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki sa lain nga flight — buot silingon, wala man ini nakaabot sa iya kuntani kadtuan nga syudad.
Wala sang kaupod ang amo nga bata sang siya ang nagbyahe apang naka-arrange na ang pagbisita sini sa iya Lola.
Ang plano: mahalin siya sa Philadelphia International Airport kag mahugpa ang eroplano sa Southwest Florida International Airport sa Fort Myers, apang sa baylo sina, napasakay siya sa eroplano nga pakadto sa estado sang Orlando.
Imagine nga natabo ini sa bata sa tunga mismo sang record-breaking holiday travel surge ukon nagadinaguso ang mga tawo.
Nagpangayo nman sang pasaylo ang airlines kag nagsiling nga gintatap gid sang ila mga personnel ang bata sa bilog sini nga flight apisar nga nakakadto ini sa 160 miles northwest sang iya kuntani original nga destinasyon.
May ginapatigayon naman subong nga international investigation kasunod sang amo nga hitabo.#
Man-og, patay matapos nagbato ang lalaki nga iya ginburambudan
Talagsa ka lang makakita sang tawo nga wala nahadlok sa man-og, ilabi na kun agresibo ini kag una nga mang-atake sa tanan nga iya makit-an.
Sa Bohol, natabo ini sa ka 48-anyos nga lalaki nga si Boljulio Aleria, residente sang barangay Cabayugan sa banwa sang Calape, sang ginbalabagan sang daku nga man-og ang iya ginadala nga motorsiklo.
Pasado ‘las dos na sa kaagahon sang amo nga tion kag amo na lang ang kakibot si Aleria sang nakit-an ang reticulated python ukon ang ila ginatawag nga “baksan” nga nagalaba sang tatlo ka metros kag daw botelya na sang beer ang kadakuon sang iya lawas.
Sang una daw okay pa sa lalaki bangud abi niya matabok lang ang man-og apang amo na lang ang kakulba sini sang nagburambod ang man-og sa iya kag ginkagat pa sini ang iya nga butkon.
Ginpangita niya ang liog sang man-og, ginkuga, kag ginkagat man niya ini.
Masobra 10 ka minutos ang engkwentro sang duha tubtub nga napatay ang man-og.
Gindala si Aleria sa Governor Celestino Gallares Medical Hospital sa Tagbilaran City para mabulong ang iya nagadugo nga kamot.
Apisar sang insidente, nahim-os si Aleria bangud nahibaluan niya nga kaangay sa iban nga pythons, indi man venomous ang man-og nga nagkagat sa iya.# Photo: Roy Moraleta
Apat ka bulan nga lapsag, nakaluwas apisar ginhakwat sang buhawi nga nagrumpag man sa ila balay
Indi matapos-tapos ang pasalamat sang isa ka 22-anyos nga iloy sang nakit-an nga buhi pa ang iya apat ka bulan nga lapsag apisar nga ginlupad na ini sang buhawi kag narumpag na ang ila nga balay.
Natabo ini sa Tennessee sa USA kun sa diin anum ka mga tawo ang napatay kag linibo ang nawad-an sang suplay sang kuryente sang naglaslas ang buhawi sang nagligad lamang nga semana.
Suno kay Sydney Moore, yara siya sa sulod sang balay kaupod sa iya nga boyfriend nga si Aramis Youngblood kag kabataan sang nabatyagan nga nag-agi ang buhawi.
Dali-dali nga ginluksuhan ni Sydney ang iya isa ka tuig nga subang nga bata kag sang hinali lang, nag-collapse ang dingding sang ila balay.
Nakit-an man mismo sang iya boyfriend kun paano ginhakop sang buhawi ang balay kag ginhakwat sang hangin ang ginatulugan sang bata.
Ginhingagaw pa sang lalaki nga malagas ang suludldan, apang mangin siya ang wala nakasarang sa hangin kag nalupad paguwa sa balay.
Sang nagtawhay na ang sitwasyon, ginpangita ni Sydney kag sang iya boyfriend ang bata kag wala sang sudlan ang kakulba kun ano na ang itsura sini.
Halos 10 minutos ang ginlawig sang ila pagpangita kag indi makapati ang iloy sang nakit-an sini nga nagabugtaw na ang iya baby samtang yara ini malapit sa natumba nga kahoy.
Suno sa iya, wala lang niya ginahambal apang naghuna-huna na siya nga patay na ang bata, gani naghilibion ini sang ginhakos ang lapsag nga iya gintawag nga “grace of God.”
Wala man sang naluwas sa ila nga propiedad bangud sa buhawi apang tuman man ang pasalamat ni Sydney sa iya mga kasilingan bangud sang paghatag sang mga gatas, diapers, kag mga bayo para sa iya mga anak.
Temporaryo nga nagatinir si Moore kag ang iya boyfriend sa hotel room, samtang gintugyan naman ang duha ka mga bata sa pakaisa ni Moore nga amo ang mas may kaayo nga kahimtangan pagkatapos sang natabo nga buhawi.
Anum ka tuig nga batasa China, pinakabag-o nga world record holder sa pinakamadasig sa pagsolbar sang Rubik’s cube
ILOILO CITY – Kalabanan sa aton, indi pa makasolbar sang 3x3x3 Rubik’s cube.
Apang sa China, isa ka anum ka tuig nga bata nga babayi ang naka-set sang panibag-o nga record matapos na-solve sini ang Rubik’s cube sa sulod lamang sang 5.97 seconds sa World Cube Association Rubik’s Cube International Open sa Singapore.
Si Qixian nga nagikan sa Jiangsu Province ang nagsugod sa paghampang sang Rubik’s cube sang siya ang tatlo pa lamang ka tuig nga na-inspire sa iya pakaisa nga nagtudlo sa iya sang ‘speed-cubing’.
Nag-enjoy siya sa speed-solving sang Rubik’s cube kag naga-practice sang duha tubtob tatlo ka oras kada adlaw.
Naglab-ot man sa punto nga halos mag-give up na ini bangud nga nag-stuck lamang sa 12 seconds ang makaya niya sang gin-attempt niya ang 10 seconds sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan.
Agud nga ma-motivate ini, nag-intra sa Rubik’s cube speed-cubing ang bilog niya nga pamilya kag nagpasakop sa mga adult competitions.
Sa subong, si Qixian ang nagakapot sang world record apisar sang tuman ka bata nga edad.
70-anyos nga babayi, nakabata pa sang kapid!
Ginakabig sang isa ka 70-anyos nga babayi nga milagro ang iya pag-angkon sang kapid nga anak sa pihak sang iya edad.
Ini amo si Safina Namukwaya, tumandok sang Uganda nga ginlaragway sang Women’s Hospital International and Fertility Centre nga amo ang pinakatigulang nga iloy sa Africa nga nakabata pa apisar sang iya katigulangon.
Nagapabilin sa ospital si Safina kaupod sa iya nga baby girl kag baby boy apang maayo gid ang ila nga kondisyon.
Malipayon man nga gin-anunsyo sang fertility centre nga napatigayon ini paagi sa in vitro fertilization (IVF) treatment ukon ang proseso kun sa diin ginakuha ang itlog sa ovaries sang babayi kag gina-fertilize sa sperm sa laboratoryo.
Ang na-fertilize nga itlog ukon ginatawag nga embryo amo ang ginabutang sa taguangkan sang babayi agud nga mag-develop.
Ginpakigbahin ni Safina nga nangin mabudlay ang iya pagbusong bangud wala nagpakita ang amay sang iya mga anak sang nahibaluan sini nga kapid ang iya ginadala.
Apisar nadulaan sang partner, malipayon si Safina bangud duha ka bag-o nga blessings ang nag-abot sa iya nga kabuhi.
Ini na ang ikatatlo nga delivery ni Safina sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig.
Sang 2020, nakaangkon man siya sang isa ka baby girl.
Una na niya ginpakigbahin nga luyag gid niya magka-anak bangud madamo ang nagasuya sa iya halin sang napatay ang iya una nga bana sang 1992 nga wala gid sila nakaangkon sang bata.#
Kawatan nga nagsulod sa balay sang iya target, natulugan, na-remalaso pa bangud sa iya sobra nga huragok!
Madamo ang naham-ot sa natabo sa isa ka kawatan nga wala pa gani nakabuylo sa iya plano nga magpangtaban sang gamit sang iban, pero nadakpan na!
Natabo ini sa Yunnan province sa China sang ginsulod sang lalaki nga si Yeng ang isa ka balay.
Nag-alang-alang ini sa iya plano nga magpangawat bangud nabatian sini nga may naga-istorya nga mga tawo sa sulod sang puluy-an.
Gani ang iya ginhimo, nagkadto siya sa lain nga hulot kag didto naghulat nga makatulog ang tag-iya sang balay.
Samtang nagahulat, nagpanigarilyo pa ini kag wala ini nakamulalong nga napiyungan siya kag natulugan.
Sang ulihi, nadisturbo naman ang tag-iya sang balay bangud may nabatian ini nga matunog nga paghuragok.
Sang una, abi niya iya lang ini sang ila nga kasilingan, apang sang nagbangon siya agud maghugas sang milk bottle sang iya bata, nagtunog ang huragok kag sang iya ginpalapitan, baw didto nadakpan si Yeng nga nagatulog sa salog!
Gintawag ang pulis, gindakop ang lalaki, kag natukiban nga napreso man gali ini sang 2022 bangud sa iya pagpangawat.
Septyembre lamang sini nga 2023 sang nakaguwa ini sa presuhan apang amo na lang ang pagka-dismaya sang pulis sang nakit-an nga nagbalik naman ini sa iya daan nga propesyon sa pagtaban sang propiedad sang iban.
Kawatan, nakilala kag nadakpan sang pulis bangud sang iya colorful nga underwear
Kun may operasyon gani ang mga kawatan, preparado gid sila nga tabunan ang ila nawong agud nga indi madali nga makilala sang mga tawo sa palibot.
Amo man sini ang ginhimo sang isa ka armado nga lalaki sang nangawat ini sa New York; apang na-remalaso ini kag nakilala gihapon paagi lamang sa iya colorful nga underwear!
Natabo ang pagpangawat sa baligyaan sang sigarilyo sa Queens County sang Septyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno sa mga dokumento nga ginpasa sa korte sang nagligad lang nga semana, tatlo ka naka-maskara nga lalaki ang nagguwa sa salakyan kag nagsulod sa shop.
Duha sa ila ang nagtaya sang pusil sa empleyado kag sa mga kustomer, samtang ang isa naman ka lalaki ang nangamot sa pag-bukas sa cash register kun sa diin nakuha ang masobra P166,000 nga cash; P55,000 nga balor sang sigarilyo kag medicinal marijuana products, kag apat ka smartphones.
Mabudlay makilala ang tatlo bangud sa ila ginasuksok nga hoodie kag maskara, apang klaro sa surveillance videos ang colorful kaayo nga briefs sang ikatatlo nga kawatan nga nagalabaw sa iya nga low-waist pants — makit-an nga may naka-imprinta nga puti nga letter R kag may yellow naman nga naka-imprinta nga 1990.
Ginpalapta sang mga pulis ang video, tubtub nga may nag-tip sa ila kun sa diin naga-istar.
Suno sa tipster, nakit-an sini ang social media account sang amo nga suspek, kag nakit-an sa isa sa mga laragway sini nga suksok niya ang amo nga itsura sang briefs.
Nag-imbestigar ang otoridad tubtub nga nakit-an nga nagsanto ang identity sang amo nga lalaki sa video sang shop kag sa mga laragway sini sang nauna ini nga naaresto bangud sa daan nga kaso.
Gindakop siya sa iya balay sa Queens paagi sa gintingob nga pwersa sang New York Police Department-Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms joint task force.
Sa subong, nagahulat ini sang iya schedule para sa arraignment sa federal court sa Brooklyn.
Nagapabilin naman nga at large ang duha pa ka kaupdanan sini nga spotted nga naghimo sang krimen.
Lalaki sa Japan, nagtanom sang saging sa center island sang isa ka masako nga dalan sa sulod sang duha ka tuig
ILOILO CITY – Diri sa Pilipinas, naandan naton nga mga matahom nga bulak ukon flower-bearing small trees ang ginatanom sa mga center islands.
Apang sa Japan, puno sang saging ang gintanum sang isa ka 50-anyos nga lalaki.
Sa Kurume City sa Fukuoka Prefecture, ginmanduan ang wala ginhingadlan nga lalaki nga kuhaon ang tatlo ka puno sang saging nga iligal niya nga gintanom kag ginsagud sa center island sa isa ka busy city road sa sulod na sang duha ka tuig.
Indi pa klaro kun ngaa nga ginpili sang lalaki nga magtanom sang saging sa public property kag sa kadamuon sang lugar, sa center island pa.
Ini ang naga-apekto na sa view sang mga motorista.
Wala na nabudlayan pa ang mga otoridad sa pagtumod sa lalaki bangud duha ka beses sa isa ka adlaw ang pagbunyag niya sa saging.
Ginmanduan siya nga gabuton ang saging bangud nga kun indi, presuhon ini kag multahan sang 500,000-yen ukon masobra sa P180, 000.
Ginkasubo naman sang lalaki ang paggabot sa iya gintawag nga “beautiful bananas.”
Ang duha sa tatlo ka mga puno sang saging nga gingabot ang gintanom sa garden sang isa ka 80-anyos nga lalaki nga nagpasalig nga halungan ini samtang ang isa naman ang ginhatag sa abyan sang tag-iya bilang birthday present.
Duha ka doktor, ginkasuhan matapos sala nga organ ang ginkuha sa pasyente
Paano kun nagkadto ikaw sa doktor agud magpa-opera apang lain ukon sala nga parte sang imo lawas ang ila nga nakuha?
Pat-od nga magalalain ka gid kaangay sang nabatyagan sang pasyente nga si George Piano, residente sang Lake Forest Park, Washington, USA, nga biktima sang ginapahayag “medical malpractice”.
Disyembre sang nagligad nga tuig sang nagkadto si Mr.
Didto nahibaluan nga nagsuprer siya sang appendicitis gani ginpaidalom siya sa surgery agud makuha sang mga doktor ang iya nga appendix.
Suno sa legal counsel ni Piano, sang natapos na ang operasyon, sa baylo nga mag-ayo ang iya pamatyag, naglala pa gid ang sakit bangud sa ginpahayag paglapta sang iya nga bowel contents sa iya abdominal cavity.
Sang ginpaidalom sa CT scan, natukiban nga wala man nakuha ang iya appendix gani ginsulit naman ang operasyon sa amo gihapon nga ospital.
Base sa dokumento nga ginpasaka sa korte, sang una nga operasyon, nakakas sang doktor ang parte sang diverticulitis sa lower colon sang pasyente – kag indi sa appendix- rason nga nag-leak ang colon kag kinahanglan ang bag-o nga operasyon agud indi na maglala ang abdominal infection.
Piano nga masobra 50 ka adlaw gid ang iya pagpa-ospital, 40 pounds gid ang ginbuhin sa iya bug-at, nagsuprer siya sang anxiety kag amo man sang short-term memory loss.
Bangud sini, nagpasaka siya kag ang iya asawa sang kaso nga medical malpractice batok sa ospital kag sa duha ka doktor nga una nag-opera sa iya nga amo sanday Nidhi Udyavar kag Paul Herman.
Nagapanukot ang mag-asawa sang monetary damages kag nag-demand man sang jury trial sa amo nga kaso.#
Isa ka lalaki sa Shanghai, libre nga nagtinir sa isa ka mall sa sulod sang anum ka bulan
ILOILO CITY – Ang shopping mall ang isa ka masako nga lugar.
Gani, ang pagbantay sa mga makaduludad nga tawo ang dako nga pagpanghangkat sa mga security guards.
Apang ang kapaslawan nga makit-an ang isa ka tawo nga nagatinir sa mall sa sulod sang tunga sa tuig ang daw makaduluda naman.
Sa Shanghai, China, nag-install sang tent ang lalaki sa idalom sang tago na nga hagdan sa amo nga building.
May yara man ini sang gamay nga desk kag office chair.
Sang nadiskubrehan na sang security guards kag pahalinon ang wala ginhingadlan nga lalaki, nagpakitluoy ini kag ginrason nga kinahanglan lamang niya sang isa ka lugar nga matawhay kag malinong samtang nagahanda sa iya college entrance exam.
Ginpahanugutan man ini sang management tubtob nga matapos niya ang tuman ka importante nga exam.
Apang sang ulihi, sang nagbag-o na ang security guard, gin-aresto ini matapos nakumpirma nga pila na gali ka bulan ini nga naga-istar sa mall.
Makit-an sa video nga wala man ini nagatuon kundi, naga-chill lamang kag nagagamit lang sang cellphone.
Nobyembre 3: Pagdumdom kay Laika, isa ka Space Dog kag Soviet Hero
Sang Nobyembre 3, 1957, ginpadala sa space ang layaw nga ido nga si Laika paagi sa Soviet ship nga Sputnik 2.
Tuyo sang amo nga flight nga i-test ang safety sang space travel para sa mga tawo.
Apang sa malain nga palad para kay Laika, isa lamang ini ka one-way trip.
Suno sa reports, nakaluwas pa si Laika sa lima tubtub pito ka oras matapos ang liftoff apang napatay sang ulihi bangud sa panic kag overheating.
Si Laika ang ginakilala nga una nga living creature nga naka-orbit sa Earth.
Ginapahayag nga sang ginpatigayon ang mission, ginsulod si Laika sa pressurised cabin kun sa diin siya pwede makahigda kag makatindog.
May yara man sang air regeneration system nga nag-provide sang oxygen, food, kag tubig nga na-dispense sa “gelatinised form.” May yara man nga ginbutang nga harness kay Laika, bag nga maka-collect sang waste, kag electrodes agud nga maka-monitor sang vital signs.
Sa pag-umpisa sang mission, ginapahayag nga nakulbaan na si Laika apang nagakaon man ini gihapon.
Suno pa sa report sang Smithsonian Magazine, hinadlukan si Laika sa gahod kag pressure sang flight rason nga nagdasig ang heart rate kag quadrupled na ang iya nga breath rate.
Ginreport man nga nakalab-ot nga buhi si Laika sa orbit kag nakalibot sa Earth sang ginabanta 103 minutes antes ini ginbawian sang kabuhi.
Isa ka layaw nga ido si Laika kag ginapahayag nga ginkuha lang gikan sa dalanon sa Moscow isa ka semana antes ang launch sang Sputnik 2.
Suno sa NASA, isa ka female part-Samoyed terrier si Laika nga ang original name amo ang Kudryavka (Little Curly).
Sang ulihi, ginpangalanan ini nga Laika, ang panawag sa Russian para sa “Husky” ukon “Barker.” Sa Estados Unidos naman, gintawag siya nga “Muttnik.” Ginapahayag nga 6 kgs.
Sandig sa report sang Associated Press, gin-promote ang ido sa cosmonaut (ukon ang term nga nagatumod sa astronaut sa Soviet ukon Russian space program) bangud sa iya kagamayon kag ‘calm’ demeanor.
Apang ngaa bala nga ginpili sang Soviet Union nga sapat ang ipadala sa Space?
Indi lang Soviet Union ang nag-eksperimento sa mga sapat.
Antes natigayon nga mapadala ang mga tawo sa space, isa sa mga teorya ang nagasaad nga indi makaluwas ang mga tawo sang malawig nga period sang weightlessness.
Suno sa US space agency nga NASA, gingamit sang American kag Russian scientists ang sapat — kaangay sang amo, chimps, kag ido — agud ma-test ang abilidad sang ila pungsod nga maka-launch sang living organism sa space kag ibalik ini nga buhi kag wala sang halit.
Luyag sang Soviet rocket scientists nga ipadala ang mga ido sa space agud mahangpan ang microgravity kag ang iban pa nga aspeto kun ano ang mahimo sang spaceflight sa lawas sang tawo.
Suno pa sa report sang NASA, dapat nga female ang contenders kag brightly colored agud nga maathag ang video footage.
Bisan si Laika ang ginakabig pinakabantog, indi siya ang una nga sapat nga naeksperimentuhan sang scientists.
Sang Pebrero 1947, naggamit ang Estados Unidos sang fruit flies sang may gin-launch man nga mission.
Indi man si Laika ang una nga ido sa space.
Antes pa sa iya, naka-launch na ang Soviet Union sa space sang duha ka ido nga sanday Dezik kag Tsygan sang 1951; apang sang amo nga tion, ang duha ka nasambit nga ido ang gingamit lamang sa sub-orbital launches.
Naka-launch man ang US sang rhesus monkeys, mice, fruit flies, kag rats sang second world war, samtang ang Soviets naman ang nag-develop sang ila nga V-2 kag Aerobee missile projects nga nagpadala naman sang rhesus monkeys.
Sa kabug-usan, antes kay Laika, may 36 na ka mga ido nga ginpadala ang Soviet sa Space.
Ikaduha nga pasyente nga recipient sang korason sang baboy, napatay
Nadumduman mo bala ang Navy veteran sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga amo ang nangin ikaduha nga tawo sa bug-os nga kalibutan nga madinalag-on nga nasayluhan sang korason sang baboy?
Ginkumpirma mismo sang University of Maryland Medical Center nga nagtaliwan siya sang Oktubre 30 — anum ka semana pagkatapos sang maragtason nga operasyon.
Ang pasyente amo si Lawrence Faucette, 58-anyos nga residente sang Frederick, Maryland nga nakabaton sang amo nga organ sang baboy sang Septyembre 20.
Griffith nga amo ang nag-perform sang transplant.
Nahibaluan nga antes pa man ang operasyon, indi na pwede si Faucette sa human heart transplant bangud sa iya malala nga medical conditions lakip na ang peripheral vascular disease.
Sang nasaylo naman sa iya ang korason sang baboy, naggana ini sa nauna nga mga inadlaw, apang sang ulihi nagpakita na sang senyales sang rejection.
Madumduman nga una na nga ginpahayag sang Navy veteran nga ginkapyutan niya ang gamay kaayo nga tyansa sa xenotransplant kag wala gid siya nagsala sa desisyon bangud kasunod sang madinalag-on nga procedure, maka-ginhawa na siya sang maayo, matalunsay na ang pitik sang iya korason, kag naga-gana ini nga wala nagakinahanglan sang supportive device.
Ang operasyon kay Faucette ang ginpangunahan sang mga eksperto kag mga doktor halin sa University of Maryland School of Medicine– ang team nga nagpatigayon man sang labing-una nga transplant sang korason sang baboy sa tawo sang nagligad nga tuig.
Sang amo nga tion, duha ka bulan pa nga nagkabuhi ang 57-anyos nga pasyente nga si David Bennett matapos ang transplant apang napatay man bangud maluya na nga daan ini antes pa man ang operasyon.
Ang xenotransplant sa USA amo ang ginalantaw nga makahatag sang solusyon sa chronic shortage sang human organ donations.
Nahibaluan nga sa subong, masobra 100,000 ka Americans ang nagahulat para sa organ transplants.
Babayi, ginpakasalan ang iya adopted son nga mas bata sang 31 anyos sa iya
ILOILO CITY – May daan na nga hambalanon nga ‘love knows no age’.
Ini ang nabaton naman halos sang kadam-an apang sa gihapon, sa Russia, nangin kontrobersyal ang kasal sang isa ka 53 anyos nga babayi kag sang 22 anyos nga lalaki.
Ang babayi amo ang musician nga si Aisylu Chizhevskaya-Mingalim samtang ang lalaki naman amo si Daniil nga gin-adopt niya sa sulod na sang halos walo ka tuig.
Bangud sang pagpakasal sang duha, ginpakamalaot si Aisylu kag ginkuha sa iya nga pagtatap ang lima pa niya ka mga foster children.
Suno naman kay Aisylu, ginpakaslan niya si Daniil bangud sang madugay na nga huring-huring nga magkarelasyon sila nga duha apang pahayag niya, ang ila nga relasyon ang spiritual lamang kag indi physical.
World’s oldest dog nga si Bobi, napatay na
Napatay na sa edad nga 31-anyos ang ido nga si Bobi, ang ginbansagan nga “world’s oldest dog”.
Ulihi siya nga nag-selebrar sang iya nga kaadlawan sang Mayo kun sa diin masobra 100 ka tawo ang nagtambong.
Sa report sang Guinness World Records, naglawig sang 31 ka tuig kag 165 ka adlaw ang kabuhi sang purebred Rafeiro Alentejano kag bug-os kabuhi ini nga nagpuyo sa isa ka village sa central Portugal.
Naguba sini ang rekord nga napagkit sang 1939 sang isa ka Australian cattle-dog ang nagkabuhi sa sulod sang 29 ka tuig kag lima ka bulan.
Babayi nga bag-o lang naghalin sa bakasyon, wala sang naabtan nga puluy-an matapos nasal-an ini sang isa ka kumpaniya kag ginpa-demolish
Tuman ka importante ang balay para sa isa ka tawo — amo ina ang iya ginatawag nga puluy-an, palasilungan, dalaganan, kag lugar kun sa diin natukod kag natipon ang tuman ka damo nga mga handurawan (isahanon man siya, ukon kaupod sa iya pamilya).
Kun kaisa, may mga indi mapunggan nga hitabo — kaangay sang mga kalamidad — kun sa diin gulpi madula sa imo ini nga propiedad kag mapilitan ka nga magtukod liwat.
Apang sa natabo sa southwest Atlanta, Georgia, USA, sobra-sobra man ang kaakig nga nabatyagan sang tag-iya nga si Susan Hodgson sang naghalin lang siya sa bakasyon, apang sa iya pagbalik, na-demolish na ang iya balay.
Ang malain pa dira, nagsala lang ang kumpaniya sa ila ginguba nga propiedad!
Suno kay Susan, samtang yara siya sa bakasyon, nagtawag ang iya kasilingan kag namangkot kun may gin-hire siya agud nga gub-on ang iya balay.
Natingala si Susan bangud ngaa man abi ipaguba niya ang propiedad nga dinekada na nga ginapanag-iyahan sang iya nga pamilya?
Nagpalapit pa ang kasilingan agud nga kumprontahon ang mga naga-demolish sang balay, apang ang ila sabat: “Shut up and mind your own business”.
Nagpalapit man ang himata ni Susan kag nagpangayo sang permit.
Sang gin-check na sang isa ka worker ang address, didto nakumpirma nga sala ang ila balay nga ginguba!
Sa subong, wala pa sang sabat ang Atlanta-based nga kumpaniya nga You Call It We Haul It.
Gin-ako naman sang tag-iya nga tuman ang iya kaakig, kag nagapanumdom siya kun joke time lamang ini.
Samtang wala pa na-resolbar ang isyu, nag-file si Susan sang report sa pulis kag nag-kontak na sa iya nga mga abogado.#
Peke nga abogado sa Kenya, gindaog ang 26 ka mga kaso apisar nga wala naka-eskwela sa law school
ILOILO CITY – Subong nga panahon, madamo nagid sang nagapakuno-kuno.
Amo ina nga indi basta-basta nga magpati lang.
Kag sa mga nagapakunu-kuno naman, untati na ina kay basi magpareho ka sa isa ka lalaki sa Kenya nga gin-aresto bangud nga nagpakunu-kuno nga isa ka abogado.
Ang lalaki amo si Brian Mwenda Njagi nga ginbansagan nga ‘real-life Mike Ross’ nga ginkuha sa popular nga character sa TV series nga ‘Suits’.
Si Brian ang nangin abogado na sa 26 ka nagkalain-lain nga kaso sa Court of Appeal kag High Court nga lunsay niya gindaog apisar sang kakulang sang formal training.
Nakuha niya nga mag-portray nga isa ka kwalipikado nga abogado kag wala sang may isa ka judge nga nakamutik nga indi siya gali abogado.
Nagsugod lamang sa pag-imbestigar ang Law Society of Kenya matapos nakabaton sang reklamo nagikan sa isa ka abogado nga nagahingalan kay Brian Mwenda nga indi sini ma-access ang iya nga account.
Sa ginpatigayon nga imbestigasyon, natukiban nga may yara sang nag-tamper sang iya nga account.
Matapos nakatipon sang bastante nga ebidensya, gin-aresto sang Rapid Action Team sang Law Society of Kenya si Brian Mwenda Njagi bangud sang pagpakunu-kuno nga isa ka abogado.
Wala pa ini nadala sa korte apang ang iya istorya ang gindayaw sang mga tawo nga naglab-ot sa punto nga isa ka Kenyan tycoon ang nagtanyag nga bayaran ang iya pyansa.
Halos 1,000 ka mga pispis, dungan nga napatay matapos nakabunggo sa Chicago convention center
Ginabasol sa pinakadaku nga convention center sa North America ang indi kinaandan kag dungan nga kamatayon sang malapit 1,000 ka mga pispis sa Chicago, Illinois, USA.
Kilala ang McCormick Place Lakeside Center nga isa ka iconic building sa amo nga estado bangud sa transparent glass nga amo ang nagaserbe nga mga pader sini, apang sa malain nga palad, indi ini makit-an sang mga pispis gani nagkalabunggo, napatay, kag naglalapta sa downtown area.
Suno sa Chicago Bird Collision Monitors nga isa ka volunteer conservation project nga nakatutok sa pag-proteher sa migratory birds, ang natabo sang tinalikdan nga adlaw amo na ang pinakamataas nga numero sang pispis nga napatay sa sulod lamang sang isa ka adlaw bangud sa ila nga pagkabunggo.
Ginalantaw man nga mas magasaka pa ang numero bangud na-obserbaran nga may mga pispis nga nagtinguha pa nga makalupad apisar nagkalasamaran sa amo nga insidente.
Natukiban man nga sang amo nga tion, may yara sang event sa convention center gani bukas ang tanan nga suga nga amo ang posible rason kun ngaa nagsala-sala ang mga pispis.
May yara man sang bagyo sa nabagatnan sang Chigaco nga amo ang ginalantaw rason kun ngaa manubo ang ila nga paglupad.
Sandig sa pagbanta sang mga eksperto, isa ka bilyon nga mga pispis ang nagakapatay kada tuig bangud sa pagka-bunggo sa buildings nga ginahimo sang mga tawo, ilabi na ang mga building nga napalibutan sang glass.
80 anyos nga babayi, wala sang may kung ano nga nabatyagan apisar sang dagom nga nakita sa iya utok
ILOILO CITY – Ang presensya sang foreign object sa utok sang tawo ang may yara sang malain nga epekto.
Apang dako nga katilingalahan ang kaso sang isa ka 80 anyos nga babayi sa Sakhalin region sa Russia kun sa diin, nadiskubrehan sini nga may yara gali sang 3 cm nga dagom sa wala nga bahin sang iya nga utok.
Sang damlag lang, ginpagwa sang Sakhalin Ministry of Health ang computed tomography (CT) scan results sang babayi.
Kun basehan ang edad sang babayi, nagapati ang mga doktor nga ang dagom ang ginbutang sa iya utok sang iya man lamang ginikanan sang ini ang ginbun-ag.
Indi man mapatihan pero ang amo nga practice ang indi na bag-o sa Russia.
Ang mga ginikanan nga indi makasarang sa pagsagod sa ila mga anak sang tyempo gyera ang naga-insert sang dagom sa utok sang mga lapsag pinaagi sa fontanelle agud nga mapatay ang mga ini kag wala sang ebidensya nga mabilin.
Indi pa klaro kun paano na-survive sang 80 anyos nga babayi ang tuyo nga pagpatay sa iya sang iya ginikanan.
Sa sulod sang 80 ka tuig, wala sang may nabatyagan nga ano man nga sakit sa ulo ang babayi.
Sa subong, wala na sang plano pa ang mga doktor nga ipaidalom sa operasyon ang babayi agud nga makuha dagum bangud nga delikado na ini para sa iya.
Anay presuhan sa Japan, himuon nga isa ka high-end hotel
ILOILO CITY – Kun ikaw ang pamangkuton, gusto mo bala magtulog sa isa ka presuhan?
Kun gusto mo nga maka-eksperyensya sang lain naman, sa 2026, matuman na ina.
Sa Japan, balantayan ang pagbukas sang presuhan nga ginhimo nga isa ka high-end nga hotel.
Ang maragtason nga Hoshinoya Nara Prison ang gin-renovate agud nga makahimo sang 48 ka mga guest rooms.
Natalana ini kuntani nga buksan sa publiko sa 2024 apang gin-isol agud nga maghatag sang ligwa para sa himuon nga earthquake resistance survey.
Ang anay presuhan ang malapit lamang sa Nara Park nga sikat nga tourist spot sa Japan.
Gingamit ini nga presuhan matapos ang World War II antes ginpasirado sang 2017 bangud sang kadugayon sini.
Lola sa India, nagpa-enrol sa eskwelahan sa edad nga 92-anyos
Daku nga inspirasyon sa mga estudyante indi lamang sa India kundi sa bilog nga kalibutan ang ginhimo sang isa ka 92-anyos nga Lola nga pagpa-enrol sa eskwelahan sa labing-una nga tion sa bilog niya nga kabuhi.
Ini amo si Lola Salima Khan, nabun-ag sang 1931, residente sang Bulandshahr sa northern state sang Uttar Pradesh sa India, kag may yara na subong sang mga apo sa tuhod.
Nagpakasal si Lola Salima sa edad nga 14-anyos — duha ka tuig antes ang pagtakop sang British colonial rule sa India.
Para sa iya, isa ka handum ang dumot ang makatuon sa pagbasa kag pagsulat bangud wala man sang mga eskwelahan sa ila nga lugar sang siya ang gamay pa lamang.
Anum ka bulan lang ang nagligad, amat-amat nga nahatagan sang katumanan ini nga handum sang nag-upod si Lola sa mga estudyante nga mas bata sa iya sang masobra walo ka dekada.
Gina-updan siya sang asawa sang iya nga apo kun magkadto siya sa eskwelahan.
Sang nagligad lang nga semana, nagkuha siya sang literacy test nga opisyal nga nagdeklarar sa iya bilang literate.
Sa subong, makahibalo na ini magpirma kag mag-isip sang kuwarta.
Suno kay Lola, gina-into-into pa siya anay sang iya nga mga apo kun magpangayo sila sang kuwarta bangud indi man siya makahibalo mag-isip, apang bangud sa iya pagbalik sa eskwelahan, suno sa iya, indi na siya maintuan.
Pahayag pa sang local education officer sa India, si Lola Salima ang nagapamatuod nga wala sang limitasyon kag wala sang edad ang pagpaninguha nga makatuon.
Halimbawa, bangud sa pagpa-enrol ni Lola sa eskwelahan, 25 ka mga babayi halin sa ila nga lugar ang nagsulod man sa literacy classes lakip na dira ang iya duha ka umagad.
Grupo sang mga karnero, nagharab sang marijuana matapos nahalitan sang bagyo ang kaumhan sa Greece
Nangin indi kinaandan ang hulag sang grupo sang mga karnero matapos ginpangharab ang ginabanta 100-kilos sang cannabis sa isa ka uma sa Thessaly, Greece.
Bangud sang heatwave, wildfire, kag lapnagon nga pagbaha nga sunod-sunod nga natabo sa Greece subong nga mga binulan, apektado katama ang mga kaumhan kag halos na makakita ang mga sapat sang maayo nga mga hilamon nga ila makaon.
Halimbawa diri amo ang grupo sang mga karnero nga nakatultol sa isa ka nabaw-ing nga lugar kun sa diin ginapatubo ang mga marijuana.
Suno sa tag-iya sang amo nga duta, ang amo nga pananum ang nahalitan na sang bag-o lang naglaslas nga Bagyo Daniel, kag ang mga karnero ang nagbulos kag nag-ubos sa pagharab sa nabilin nga tanum.
Ginpahayag pa sang tag-iya nga indi siya makahibalo kun mahibi ukon makadlaw sang nakit-an ang amo nga hitabo bangud una, nabatyagan sini ang heatwave kag nanaog ang produksyon; nagsunod ang bagyo kag baha kun sa diin halos nag-anaw man sa lugar kag naubos man ang ila propiedad; kag subong, nakit-an niya ang mga sapat nga sa sobra ka gutom, nagmantinir sang marijuana.
Base sa reports, nakit-an sang nagabantay nga lain na ang hulag sang mga karnero kag halos taas pa sa kanding ang sarang sini malumpat.
Nahibaluan nga legal ang marijuana sa Greece para sa pagpamulong halin pa sang 2017.
Sini lang nga 2023 sang gin-inagurahan sang amo nga pungsod ang labing-una sini nga medicinal cannabis production plant nga nagbulig man sang daku sa ekonomiya sang Greece.#
Navy veteran, ikaduha nga pasyente sa bug-os nga kalibutan nga madinalag-on nga nasayluhan sang korason sang baboy
Nakaluwas sa kamatayon ang 58-anyos nga lalaki sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika matapos nangin madinalag-on ang ginhimo sang mga doktor nga pagsaylo sang korason sang baboy sa lawas sang amo nga lalaki.
Ang pasyente amo si Lawrence Faucette, isa ka Navy veteran kag residente sang Frederick, Maryland.
Ginbalikan ni Faucette ang tyempo kun sa diin ang iya option amo ang xenotransplant ukon ang pagbaton niya sang organ halin sa sapat — ukon sa sini nga kaso, heart sang baboy.
Suno sa Navy veteran, ginkapyutan niya ang gamay kaayo nga tyansa kag wala gid siya nagsala sa desisyon bangud kasunod sang madinalag-on nga transplant, maka-ginhawa na siya sang maayo, matalunsay na ang pitik sang iya korason, kag naga-gana ini nga wala nagakinahanglan sang supportive device.
Ang gina-inom lang sini subong amo ang conventional anti-rejection drugs amo man ang bag-o nga antibody therapy agud nga punggan ang iya lawas nga i-damage ukon i-reject ang bag-o nga organ.
Ang operasyon kay Faucette ang ginpangunahan sang mga eksperto kag mga doktor halin sa University of Maryland School of Medicine.
Ang amo man nga team ang nagpatigayon sang labing-una nga transplant sang korason sang baboy sa tawo sang nagligad nga tuig.
NAIA security officer, gina-imbestigaran bangud sang paghamal sang gin-alegar kwarta sang pasahero
Ginkumpirma sang Office of Transportation Security nga magapangatubang sang kaso-administratibo kag kaso-kriminal ang isa ka security personnel sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport Terminal 1 nga nadakpan sa video nga naghamal sang kuwarta nga ginapahayag ginkawat sini sa isa ka pasahero.
Mao Aplasca, gilayon na nga na-relieve ang amo nga babayi nga personnel kag ipaidalom ini sa preventive suspension samtang nagapadayon ang imbestigasyon.
Septyembre 8 sang natabo ang insidente apang Septyembre 14 lamang sang na-secure ang closed-circuit television camera footage.
Ginapahayag nga nagdangat sa $300 ang nadula nga kuwarta sa isa ka Chinese passenger sang amo nga tion ukon katumbas sang ginabanta P17,000.
Base naman sa footage, makit-an ang personnel nga naga-usang sang papelon nga kuwarta, nag-inom sang tubig, kag nagkuha pa sang iya nga panyo agud pahiran ang baba.
Ginhimo niya ini samtang naga-atubang gid mismo sa camera kag nagapakadto-pakari pa ang mga tawo sa iya palibot.
Suno kay Aplasca, tubtub subong, nagapamalibad ang babayi nga ginkawat niya ang kuwarta apisar nga may mga naka-plastar na nga mga ebidensya.
Magluwas sa nasambit nga screening officer, dal-on man sa imbestigasyon ang tanan nga assigned sa amo man nga posisyon.
Matandaan nga sa temprano nga bahin sini nga tuig, may mga personnel man ang OTS nga involved sa gina-alegar nga extortion incident.
Tiktoker sa Indonesia, presuhon bangud sa pagsambit sang Islamic phrase nga “In the name of God” antes nagkaon sang baboy
Duha ka tuig nga manimuron sa presuhan ang isa ka babayi sa Indonesia nga nag-video sa iya kaugalingon nga nagsambit sang kabahin sang pangamuyo sang mga Muslim antes siya nagkaon sang baboy.
Ini amo ang 33-anyos nga si Lina Lutfiawati nga nagagamit sang Indian name nga “Lina Mukherjee” bangud sa iya nga hilig sa Bollywood movies.
Gina-identify niya ang iya kaugalingon nga Muslim.
Isa man siya ka lifestyle influencer, may masobra duha ka million nga TikTok followers, kag nagapanag-iya sang negosyo sa India.
Sang Marso, nag-post siya sang video kun sa diin iya ginsambit ang tinaga nga “Bismillah” ukon ang Arabic phrase nga nagakahulugan nga “in the name of God”.
Ginhimo niya ini antes siya nagkaon sang crispy nga panit sang baboy.
Sang amo nga tion, naga-byahe siya sa Bali, isa ka tourist hotspot sa Indonesia nga (indi kaangay sang nabilin nga bahin sang pungsod) may majority nga Hindu population.
Ginpanindugan sini nga sang amo nga tion, nagtilaw siya sang agud bulngon ang iya nga kuryosidad.
Milyon-milyon ang nagpakalamaot kag nainsulto sa video bangud ginadumilian ang baboy sa Islam nga amo ang dominant religion sa Indonesia.
Sunod siya nga gin-report sa pulis bangud sa paglapta sang “hateful information” nga isa ka sahi sang “act of hostility over ethnicity, religion, and race.”
Sang sini lang, gin-desisyunan sang korte sa Palembang, South Sumatra, Indonesia nga “guilty” ang amo nga influencer sa paglapta sang impormasyon nga nagapakamalaot sa religious individuals kag partikular nga mga grupo.
Magluwas nga ma-preso ang babayi, ginpabayad man ini sang $16,200 ukon P918,000.
Kun indi niya ini mabayaran, madugangan sang tatlo ka bulan ang kalawigon sang iya pagtinir sa sulod sang presuhan.
Lola nga nabayaan sang amay sa Pilipinas sang World War II, nakatapak na sa Japan sa edad nga 82-anyos
Pat-od nga nabatian mo na sa imo Lolo kag Lola ukon nabasahan sa libro ang mga istorya sang Tiempo Hapon diri sa Pilipinas.
Pila sa mga Hapon ang may nabilin nga kabataan diri sa Pilipinas kag subong lamang nga tuig nakatigayon nga nakabalik sa Japan.
Ini ang kaangay sang istorya sang 82-anyos nga Filipino-Japanese nga si Margarita Hiroko Koyama nga nabayaan sang iya amay nga Japanese national sang World War II sang 1945.
Taga-Digos, Davao Del Sur gid si Lola Margarita.
Ang amay niya amo si Tomaho Koyama nga nag-abot sa Pilipinas antes pa man ang gyera kag nakapangasawa ini sang isa ka Pinay.
Apang pag-abot sang 1945 nga panahon sang World War II, ginbihag sang mga soldado sang Amerika si Tomaho kag ang iya nga mga anak antes pa man nag-surrender ang Japan sang Agusto 14, 1945.
Kasunod sadto, gin-deport si Tomaho sa Japan apang nabilin naman diri sa Pilipinas ang iya nga asawa kag mga anak.
Makaligad ang tatlo ka tuig, napatay man si Tomaho sa Fukuoka Prefecture sa Japan.
Natigayon naman nga na-restore ni Lola Margarita ang iya nga Japanese nationality sang 2017, nakakuha sang Japanese passport sang 2019, apang bangud sa posibilidad nga madagdagan sang Philippine Immigration sang daku nga penalidad kag iban pa sulukton, wala siya gihapon nakabalik sa Japan.
Subong lamang nga Septyembre 2023, si Lola Margarita ang nangin labing-una nga war-displaced descendant sang Japanese migrant nga nakabalik sa Japan.
Ini kasunod sang negosasyon sang Philippine Government kag sang mga opisyal sang Japanese Embassy nga naga-waive sang multa sa mga kaangay ni Lola Margarita.
Plano naman sang Lola nga magbisita sa pantyon sang iya amay.
Ginpakigbahin sini nga wala gid niya na-imagine nga makatapak siya sa Japan, kag tubtub subong, wala pa sini nahibaluan kun ano ang iya una nga ihambal sa iya amay nga halos indi na niya madumduman ang itsura.
Ginpahayag naman sang mga opisyal sang embahada sang Japan diri sa Pilipinas nga magapadayon ang Japanese government sa pagbulig sa mga war-displaced descendants nga makabalik sa Japan.
Pinakamataas nga ido sa kalibutan, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga tatlo ka tuig ang Great Dane nga amo ang ginakilala nga pinakamataas nga ido sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ini amo si Zeus, nagapuyo sa Bedford, Texas, USA, masobra isa ka metro ang kataason, kag nahatagan sang titulo sang Guiness World Records sang 2022.
Sa Nobyembre, manug-apat na ka tuig kuntani ang edad ni Zeus.
Napatay ini sa pneumonia kasunod sang surgery sang gin-utod ang iya nga tuo nga tiil sang nadiskubrehan sang veterenarians sang Agusto ang iya gina-suprer nga cancer.
Kilala si Zeus sa pamilya ni Davis nga “loving, caring, and strong-minded” nga naga-enjoy sa paglakat-lakat sa malapit sa ila nga balay kag sang ila mga kasilingan.
Kasado nga lalaki sa China, nagapadulong sa trabaho suksok ang Lolita-style dresses kag naga-make up
ILOILO CITY – Ang mga kababainhan ang mahilig gid nga mag-dress up sa pagpadulong sa trabaho.
Pero ano ayhan ang imo reaction kun makakita ka sang lalaki nga kasado kag indi man myembro sang lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) community, apang nagasuksok sang Lolita-style dresses kag naga-make up adlaw-adlaw?
Sa China, ginakalingawan subong ang isa ka 36-year-old former computer programmer kag cosplay enthusiast bangud sa indi kinaandan nga get up kun magtrabaho.
Si D-Jiang ang fan gid sang Lolita and Gothic Lolita fashion, kag nagasuksok man sang female attires sa nagkalain-lain nga cosplay events.
Sa sulod sang duha na ka tuig, nagasuksok siya sang cosplay garments adlaw-adlaw kag naga-spend gi sang pila ka oras kada aga agud nga mag-make up antes magpadulong sa trabaho.
Ang iya nga asawa nga isa man ka fan sang Lolita fashion ang wala gid nagareklamo.
Suportado niya ini kag sa pagkamatuod, ginabuligan pa niya ini sa pagbutang sang iya make-up.
Wala sang labot si D-Jiang sang ginahambal sang tawo bangud sa iya unique style.
Ang importante suno sa iya amo nga na-namian siya sa iya ginahimo.
Isa ka lugar sa China, nagahatag sang reward para sa mga bag-o kasal nga couple kun ang bride ang naga-edad sang 25 anyos kag panubo
ILOILO CITY – Sa subong nga mga panahon nga nagasaka ang presyo sang balaklon, indi basta-basta ang pagtukod sang pamilya.
Amo ini ang rason kun ngaa nga madamo naman sang mga soltero kag dalaga ang wala nagadali nga magpasakal.
Sa China, manubo naman ang marriage rate kag mangin ang birth rate.
Bangud sini, ang Changshan county ang naga-offer sang cash sa mga young couples nga magpasakal sa tinutuyo nga mautod na ang amo nga trend.
Ang mga bag-o kasal nga mga couples ang makabaton sang reward nga 1,000-yuan ukon masobra sa P7, 000 kun ang bride ang naga-edad 25 anyos kag panubo.
Suno sa county, katuyuan sang reward nga ma-promote ang “age-appropriate marriage and childbearing” para sa mga bag-o kasal.
Magluwas sa reward, ma-avail man ang serye sang childcare, fertility kag education subsidies para sa mga couples nga may mga kabataan.
NBSB bride sa Bulacan, ginkasal sa edad nga 70
Ini ang ginpamatud-an sang 70 anyos nga bride nga si Amelia sang nagdesisyon nga mag- “I do” sa iya childhood friend nga si Felix nga masobra 60 na ka tuig niya nga wala nakita.
Ang anay manunudlo kag negosyante nga si Amy ang taga-Bulacan samtang naka-base naman sa abroad si Felix.
Nag-reconnect ang duha sang damlag lang pinaagi sa social media kag makaligad ang isa ka bulan, nagpauli si Felix sa Pilipinas agud nga makita sang personal ang iya nga “childhood crush.”
Wala na nagpaliguy-ligoy ang duha bangud matapos ang pila lamang ka bulan, nagdesisyon ang mga ini nga magpasakal.
Suno kay Felix, nagsugod sila sa chat, pagkatapos nangin audio na ang ila istoryahanay tubtob nga naga-video call na.
Madamo naman sang na-amaze sa love story sang duha.
Gani ikaw, indi magkalabalaka kun tubtob subong, wala ka pa sang lover ukon wala ka pa nakapakasal.
Basi pagkatapos pa sang lima ka dekada mapakita ang love of your life.
Football Federation chief sa Spain, ginhalukan ang player samtang naga-selebrar sa kadalag-an sa World Cup
Sa baylo nga lunsay selebrasyon ang tutukan sang Espanya matapos ang maragtason nga kadalag-an sa FIFA Women’s World Cup, nabutang pa sa kontrobersiya ang pangalan sang football federation president sa pungsod.
Ini bangud nakit-an gid sang publiko kun paano sini gulpi nga ginhalukan sa bibig ang midfielder nga si Jenni Hermoso sang tion nga naga-selebrar ang tanan bangud nalutos sang Espanya ang England sa Final match.
Matapos nga ginpasuksok sang football federation chief nga si Luis Rubiales ang gold medal sa mga myembro sang Spanish team, ginpanghakos sini ang mga players apang pag-abot kay Jenni, wala gid ini nakapugong kag nahalukan niya ini.
Sa locker room naman sang players, nagpanugid si Jenni nga wala siya nanamian sa amo nga halok; apang sang nagpaguwa na sang formal nga statement, ginsiling sini nga wala lang sa iya ang amo nga insidente bangud bunga ini sang tuman nga selebrasyon sang kada isa kag isa ini ka “natural gesture”.
Nagpangayo naman sang pasaylo ang football chief sa iya nga sala kag gin-ako ang iya nga ginhimo.
Mangin ang mga ministers sang gobyerno kag ang media commentators sa Espanya ang nagpakamalaot sa amo nga gesture.
Nagmandu man si acting Culture and Sports Minister Miquel Iceta kay Rubiales nga maghatag sang paathag kasunod sang amo nga insidente nga iya gintawag nga “unacceptable”.
Nahibaluan nga tuman ka daku nga topiko ang gender issues sa Espanya.
Suno kay acting Gender Equality Minister Irene Montero, ang non-consensual kiss ukon ang gulpi-gulpi lang nga halok nga wala ginapangayo ukon gintugtan, ang makabig nga isa ka sex violence nga adlaw-adlaw ginasuprer sang mga kababainhan apang daw wala lang sa gihapon nahatagan sang nagakaigu nga igtalupangod.
Bata nga lalaki nga gin-akigan sang iloy bangud wala nag-ubra sang assignment, nagpadulong sa police station kag nagpakitlu-oy nga dal-on nalang sa orphanage
ILOILO CITY – Kun ikaw ang gina-akigan sang imo iloy bangud nga wala ka pa nakahimo sang imo assignment, ano ang gina-ubra mo?
Ang iban, ginapati nalang samtang nagatalangison.
Sa China, matapos gin-akigan sang iya iloy bangud sa wala sa gihapon naubra nga assignment, isa ka 10 ka tuig nga bata ang naglayas sa ila balay kag nagpadulong sa isa ka police station agud nga magreklamo kag nagpakitluoy nga dal-on siya sa orphanage.
Ini nga insidente ang natabo sa Chongqing.
Ang 10 ka tuig nga bata ang nagpadulong sa Huixing Police Station sa Yubei kag gin-istorya ini sang duha ka mga pulis.
Matapos ang pagpakig-istorya, natigayon nga makumbinsi sang pulis ang nasambit nga bata nga ihatag ang contact information sang iya ginikanan.
Ginpakalma ang bata kag ginpasugat ini sa iya amay.
Apisar nga wala sang gana nga magpauli ang bata, ginpaathagan ini sang pulis nga ini ang maayo nga himuon sa baylo nga magpadulong sa orphanage.
Ang ini nga balita ang madasig nga gin-istoryahan sa China.
May nagahambal nga nagapakita ini sang matamad na nga henerasyon sang spoiled children samtang ang iban ang nagdayaw sa kapulisan nga nagpakalma sa bata kag nagsolbar sang problema.
Suspek nga todo-panago sa mga pulis, gilayon nakit-an bangud sa suksok nga vest nga may reflector
Nahimo nga kaladlawan ang ginhimo sang isa ka lalaki nga nagapanago sa pulis apang madasig man nga nadakpan bangud sa iya ginasuksok nga vest nga may yara sang reflector!
Natabo ini sa Texas, USA kun sa diin gin-post pa sang Aransas Pass Police Department ang video kun sa diin makit-an ang lalaki nga todo-hapa kag panago sa kasiutan apang madasig man nga nakit-an sa drone video bangud sa iya nagabanaag nga orange jacket.
Suno sa pulis, ang amo nga lalaki amo ang suspek sa carnapping incident.
Ginpahayag nga sang ginlagas siya sang mga pulis, ginbilin niya ang iya ginkawat nga salakyan kag nagpaspas sa pagdalagan padulong sa lugar kun sa diin masiot kag mataas ang mga tanum.
Makit-an sa video nga easy-peasy lang ang pagpangita sa lokasyon sang amo nga lalaki bangud bisan nagahapa siya, wala siya sang ideya nga kit-anon siya sa drone kag agaw atensyon ang reflector sa iya vest.
Wala na ini sang nahimo sang ginpalapitan sang pulis kag gin-aresto.
Daw nagapangsunlog naman ang post sang police department sang ila ginsapubliko ang video.
Kawatan sang bike, nagtinir pa sa garahe kag game nga nagdugsing sa ido sang tag-iya
Kun may kawatan, ginalauman nga magataghol ang ido kag magabulig agud mapahibalo sa iya nga agalon nga may tawo nga nagapanghilabot sa ila balay.
Lain ang natabo base sa gin-share sang San Diego Police Department sa California: Ang ido nahimo pa nga partner-in-crime sang suspek!
Base sa police report, nakit-an ang gina-alegar suspek sa CCTV footage nga nagatuyo nga kawaton ang bike halin sa garahe sang biktima.
Indi lang ini basta-basta nga bike bangud isa ini ka 2019 black Electra 3-speed bicycle nga ginabanta nagabalor sang $1,300 ukon ginabanta P72,980.
Sa isa ugaling ka pinasahi nga hitabo, sang malagyo na kuntani ang suspek, nagsulod ang ido sa garahe.
Nakit-an nga ginahulag hulag sang ido ang iya nga ikog kag nagadugsing sa suspek.
Nagtinir man ang lalaki sa garahe kag ginhikap-hikap anay ang ido.
Mabatian pa nga ginpamangkot pa sang suspek ang ido kun diin ang iya nga tag-iya, kag nagpanugyan pa ini nga dasun gani, indi gid pagbayaan nga bukas ang pwertahan.
Amo lang na galing bangud wala gid napunggan ang suspek: gindala gid sini ang bike.
Sa subong, nagapangayo ang pulis sang impormasyon halin sa publiko kaangot sa amo nga identity sang amo nga lalaki.
Lalaki sa Hungary, hinali lang nga nag-manggaranon matapos aksidente nga nabayran sang iya kompaniya sang 367 ka pilo sang iya sweldo
ILOILO CITY – Diri sa kalibutan, maswerte ka na kun makabaton ka sang sulu-sobra sa imo nga regular nga sweldo.
Apang, paano kun ang mabaton mo nga sweldo indi lang sulu-sobra kundi sobra-sobra gid?
Sa Hungary, isa ka lalaki ang gin-terminate sa isa ka kumpaniya matapos ang manubo gid lamang nga pagtrabaho.
Nagsweldo siya sang kabug-usan nga 92,549 forints ukon halos P15, 000 lamang.
Apang, ano man nga ka-swerte sang empleyado bangud nga nagsala ang iya employer sa pag-wire sang iya sweldo.
Ang gin-wire sa iya ang nagdangat gid sa 367 ka pilo sang iya nga sweldo.
Austrian bank account ang ginhatag sang lalaki gani, ginbayaran siya sa local currency nga euros.
Sa baylo nga i-convert ang forints sa euro, nakabaton ang lalaki sang 92,549 euros ukon P5.5 million.
Sang na-realize na sang employer ang sala, gin-contact niya ang lalaki kag gin-ayo nga ibalik ang sobra nga kwarta apang nagpamalibad ini.
Sang ulihi, nagpangayo sang bulig ang kompaniya nagikan sa Kaposvár District Prosecutor’s Office kag na-freeze ang Austrian bank account sang lalaki.
Natigayon man nga mabalik ang kwarta apang nagdangat lamang ini sa 72,000 euros ukon P4 million.
Bombilya, nag-angut sa baba sang isa ka lalaki bangud lamang sa isa ka online challenge
Apang, mga Ka-Bombo, dapat man siguro nga pili-on mo kun ano ang sahi sang mga challenges ang imo atubangon.
Basi magpareho ka sa isa ka lalaki sa China nga ginderetso sa emergency room sa Zhejiang hospital nga may screw base sang bombilya nga naga-ungot sa iya nga baba.
Ini matapos nga gin-testingan niya ang isa sa mga ginatawag nga dumbest online challenges.
Chen ang personal nga nagpadulong sa Yuyao City Fire and Rescue Brigade sa Zhejiang, China agud nga magpangayo sang bulig bangud sang naga-ungot nga LED light bulb sa iya baba.
Napaslawan ang mga bombero sa pagkuha sini sa iya baba gani nga gindala nalang ini sa Yuyao People’s Hospital.
Chen ang iya baba gani indi man makuha ang light bulb.
Bangud sini, naggamit pa sila sang special mouth opener agud nga ma-dislocate ang bahin sang iya sag-ang kag makuha ang glass bulb.
Ginpahayag ni Chen nga nag-ungot ang bombilya sa iya baba duha ka oras ang nakaligad antes ini nagpangayo sang bulig.
Gintinguha-an pa niya una nga kuhaon ini apang indi niya ma-nganga ang iya baba.
Ang rason kun ngaa may bombilya sa iya baba amo nga nakita niya sa isa ka video nga may naghimo sini gani gusto niya nga testingan man.
Picture ni Jin sang kilala nga K-pop group nga BTS, nakabulig sa pagpurnada sang isa ka robbery sa Brazil
ILOILO CITY – Duha sa mga myembro sang kilala nga K-pop group nga BTS ang nagapaidalom sa military service sa South Korea.
Apisar nga yara sa military service, isa sa mga myembro sang grupo ang nakabulig sa pagpurnada sang isa ka robbery sa Brazil.
Ang college student nga si Natali Vitoria Ramos Reis, 21, ang yara sa bus stop pagkatapos sang iya night class sang gin-snatch sang isa ka lalaki ang iya cellphone.
Nakuha matuod sang lalaki ang cellphone apang ginkakibot ni Natali nga ginbalik niya ini kag nagpalagyo.
Suno sa biktima, ang phone cover ang may picture gali sang 30 anyos nga si Jin nga nagasuksok sang uniform kag naka-mask.
Posible suno sa iya nga nasal-an sang kawatan nga ang nobyo ni Natali ang myembro sang military gani nga ginkulba-an ini kag ginbalik nalang ang cellphone.
Si Jin ang nagsugod sa military service sang December 2022.
Kun ikaw ang fan ni Jin, mnay idea na ikaw kun paano makalikaw sa mga kawatan.
Pero kun ang kawatan ang fan man ni Jin, pangamuyu-i nalang.
Lalaki nga nagtuyo nga mag-sige-sige nga paghibi sa sulod sang 100 ka oras, temporaryo nga nabulag
Kadamo sang mga tawo nga gusto makahimo sang world record.
Daw sa ano bala nga ikaw gid ang pinakasagad, ukon ang ginakilala nga pinakamaayo, sa isa ka bagay?
Sa Nigeria, pinasahi pa gid ang napinsaran sang isa ka lalaki agud maka-set sang record — ini amo ang sige-sige nga paghibi sa sulod sang 100 ka oras!
Ang lalaki amo si Tembu Daniel nga may bansag nga towncryer.
Sang damlag lang, gin-umpisahan ni Tembu ang iya nga crying marathon apang ginsuspinde man niya makaligad ang anum ka oras bangud sa side effects.
Suno kay Tembu, nakabatyag siya sang tuman ka sakit nga ulo, nagahabok ang iya mata pati ang iya nawong, kag ang pinaka-malala pa, temporaryo nga nadula ang iya panan-awan sa sulod sang 45 minutos.
Bangud sa partial nga pagkabulag, gin-islan niya ang iya nga estratehiya paagi sa paghibi samtang nagakaon kag pagpamati sa masubo nga background music.
Indi man maathag kun nalab-ot sini ang iya 100 ka oras nga target nga crying marathon.
Ginpasa man sang nasambit nga African ‘town crier’ ang iya nga record attempt sa Guinness World Records.
Nag-react naman ang Guinness kag nagsiling nga indi sila mag-monitor sa amo nga sahi nga attempt, kag may yara man sang gin-share nga guidelines kun ano dapat ang sundon kun maghimo sang world record.
Motorcycle rider sa Davao nga nag-ala ‘Superman’, arestado
ILOILO CITY – Madamo sa aton ang nainit nga magtulok sa mga drivers nga naga-exhibition sa tunga sang dalan.
Sa Davao City, gin-aresto sang City Transport and Traffic Management Office ang isa ka 20 anyos nga lalaki matapos nag-exhibition sa Davao City Coastal Road.
Sa video nga ginpadala sa Davao Idiot Drivers, makita ang isa ka lalakip nga nagahapa sa iya ginamaneho nga motorsiklo apisar nga madam ini sang kadungan nga salakyan.
Bangud sa video, nakuha ang plate number kag na-trace sang City Transport and Traffic Management Office ang lalaki kag gin-aresto.
Sang ulihi, natukiban nga wala sang lisensya ang driver kag gin-ako nga ginhulam lamang niya ang motorsiklo nga expired na man ang lisyensya.
Makita nga indi man insakto ang pagsuksok sini sang helmet.
Sa kustodiya na subong sang Ecoland Police Station ang rider samtang naka-impound naman ang ginhulam niya nga motorsiklo.
Nagpaandam naman ang mga otoridad sa mga motorista nga magdoble halong sa pagmaneho agud nga malalikaw sa disgrasya.
Magluwas sa pag-violate sa traffic rules, ang rider ang natalana man nga pasakaan sang kaso nga alarm and scandal.
Uso subong ang pakulintas sang kuwarta sa tion sang graduation bangud nauyunan gid sang mga estudyante kun hatagan sila sang amo sini nga regalo.
Apang wala na siguro sang makapyerde sang nabaton sang isa ka Grade 10 student nga si Charles Joseph “CJ” Baybay.
Ini bangud wala duha-duha ang iya utod nga lalaki sa paghatag sa iya sang isa ka milyon nga pesos sa iya nga espesyal nga adlaw sa eskwelahan.
Suno kay CJ, naga-expect gid man siya nga may ihatag nga regalo ang iya magulang nga si Christian Merck Grey bangud sa iya mga nalab-ot sa eskwelahan, apang wala sya naghaum nga lunsay ini P1,000 bills nga naglab-ot pa sa P1-million.
Magluwas diri, nakabaton pa si CJ sang gold necklace!
Nahibaluan man nga indi gid close sang una ang sanday CJ kag Christian bangud half brothers lamang sila kag indi updanay sa pagdaku, apang nag-umpisa nga nangin suod sang ulihi sang natun-an na nga magsalig sa isa kag isa.
Ginpahayag pa sang magulang nga deserving ang iya manghod sa amo kadaku nga regalo bangud maalam ini, mapisan, kag mabuot nga bata.
Gintugyan naman ni CJ ang kuwarta sa iya nga iloy agud gamiton sa pagtukod sang negosyo, kag agud nga matago para sa ila galamiton sa palaabuton.
Lalaki sa Chile, nagaplano nga magpasaka sang kaso batuk sa Civil Registry matapos ginpalayas sa ila balay bangud lamang sang sala nga spelling
ILOILO CITY – Ano ayhan ang imo reaction kun mahibaluan mo nga may anak ka gali sa luwas apang indi mo kilala?
Sa Chile, isa ka lalaki ang ginpalayas sa ila balay matapos nga nahibaluan nga may duha ini ka mga anak sa Venezuela.
Si Leonardo Sepúlveda Rodríguez ang naga-enjoy sang iya kabuhi upod sa iya asawa kag anak sa sulod sang 30 na ka tuig.
Apang sining ulihi lang, ginpalayas ini sa ila balay matapos natukiban sang isa niya ka anak nga may duha pagid ini ka mga anak sa Venezuela.
Ginkumpronta siya sang iya anak apang hugot ang iya pagpanginwala bangud nga wala siya sang ideya kag suno sa iya, wala man siya nakapadulong sa Venezuela kag nag-angkon sang duha ka mga anak.
Apisar sang iya pagpaathag, ginpalayas siya sa gihapon sang iya asawa.
Sang ulihi, natukiban nga naguba ang pamilya ni Leonardo bangud lamang sa phonetic error.
Ang iya pangalan nga Leonardo ang halos pareho gid sa Leonard Rodríguez Sepúlveda, isa ka Venezuelan national nga may duha ka mga anak.
Ginpaatahag sang Civil Registry Office nga may problema sa family network system gani nagsala sila sa pag-encode sang pangalan.
Bangud sini, nagaplano si Leonardo nga pasakaan sang kaso ang Civil Registry Office bangud sang kasakit kag pag-antus nga natuga sa iya pamilya sang simple lamang nga phonetic error.
Lalaki sa Spain nga wala-untat sa pagpatokar sang tuman ka tunog nga electronic music, presuhon
Atensyon sa mga nagapatukar dira sang music nga abi nila sila lang ang tawo sa barangay!
Sa Barcelona sa Espanya, isa ka lalaki ang nagapangatubang sang sentensya nga isa ka tuig sa presuhan bangud sa pagpatukar sang wala-untat kag tuman ka tunog nga electrical music sa sulod na sang lima ka tuig nga halos ikabungol sang iya nga mga kasilingan.
Nag-umpisa ang reklamo sang 2012 kun sa diin sulit-sulit nga nagahingyo ang iya nga mga tupad balay nga hinayon lang kuntani ang volume apang wala namati ang amo nga tawo.
Sang 2015, nag-file na gid sang reklamo ang tatlo ka kasilingan bangud indi na gid sila makaagwanta.
Ginpahayag nga wala ginsapak sang akusado ang mga reklamo sang mga kasilingan kag pati ang pagsaway sang pulis.
Ginpahayag nga nagadangat sa 57 decibels ang sound measurement sang music kun adlaw kag yara naman sa 56 decibels kun gab-i nga tuman ka layo sa 35 decibels nga amo lang ang ginatugutan sang layi.
Suno sa mga kasilingan, pati tul-an nila daw ma-vibrate bangud wala sang untat nga ‘boom boom’!
Isa man ka tigulang ang nagsaad nga naglala ang iya nga insomnia kag kinahanglan pa ang sedative-hypnotic treatment.
Naglala man ang Alzheimer’s disease sang isa ka kasilingan bangud sa anxiety.
Sang sini lang, nagdesisyon ang korte kag ginpapanaogan sang sentensya ang amo nga electronic music fan.
Mapreso ini sa isa ka tuig kag tatlo ka bulan.
Mabayad man ini sang $20,000 ukon P1.08 million nga kumpensasyon kag $2,417 ukon masobra P131,000 nga multa.
Banned man ini nga mag-practice sang anuman nga propesyon nga kaangot sa electronic music.
Grocery store sa Barcelona, nagapabayad sa mga turista nga nagakadto lamang agud nga maglantaw
ILOILO CITY – Kita nga mga Pinoy, batasan gid naton nga mag-check anay sang mga balaklon antes magdesisyon sang aton baklon.
Ini ang ginakabig nga maayo nga personality sang isa ka customer.
Apang sa Barcelona, isa ka grocery store ang nagahatag sang multa sa mga turista nga nagakadto lamang agud nga maglantaw.
Ang mga tag-iya sang Queviures Múrria ang nagbutang sang sign nga naga-anunsiyo sang masobra P300 sa mga nagakadto apang naglantaw lamang.
Ang nasambit nga grocery store ang madugay na nga naga-operate gani ginkabig nga isa sa mga manami nga kaladtuan sa Barcelona rason nga madamo sang mga turista ang nagakadto.
Ang problema lamang kay bisan ano ka damo sang nagakadto, wala gid sang may nagabakal sang mga produkto.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga joke lang kuntani ang pagpanukot sa mga wala nagabakal?
Natak-an na ang mga staff sa inconvenience nga natuga sang mga turista gani ginpatuman nalang ini.
Sa subong, ang mga tawo nga nagakadto ang nagabakal na sang ila mga produkto.
Madamo man sang nagpakamalaut sa grocery store apang ginpa-athag man nila ang ila nga rason.
Bana sa India, gin-facilitate ang pagpakasal sang iya asawa kag sang other man sini
ILOILO CITY – Kun madakpan mo ang imo partner nga naga-cheat sa imo, ano ang himuon mo?
Idul-ong mo bala ini sa lugar kun sa diin siya malipayon apisar nga indi na ikaw ang kaupod?
Ini ang palamangkutanon nga pat-ud, madamo gid ang sabat.
Sa India, daw kaangay sang isa ka Bollywood movie script ang natabo.
Sa Nardiganj, isa ka bataon nga babayi ang nadakpan sang mga pumuluyo nga nagabisita sa balay sang iya other man samtang nga wala ang iya bana.
Ginsapote nila ang other man nga kasado man kag may tatlo ka mga anak.
Wala na nila ginbuy-an pa ang babayi kag ang other man sini tubtob nga nag-abot ang bana.
Sang naka-abot na ang bana kag nahibaluan ang ginhimo sang asawa, ginkakibot sang mga tawo ang pagpamatuk sini sa ila nga desisyon.
Sa baylo nga maakig, gindala sang bana ang iya asawa kag ang other man sini sa isa ka templo kag ginpakasal.
Suno sa iya, wala siya sang kinamatarong nga punggan ang iya asawa nga makaupod ang lalaki nga ginapalangga gid niya bangud lamang nga kasado ini.
Ikaw, masarangan mo man bala ini nga himuon?
Conjoined twins nga 2% lang sang una ang tyansa nga mabuhi, pareho nga nakatapos na subong sa Kindergarten
Bangud graduation season sa gihapon subong, sunod-sunod ang mga istorya nga makapukaw sang aton nga balatyagon kag maka-agaw gid sang aton nga atensyon.
Isa diri ang istorya sang conjoined twins sa Statesville, North Carolina, USA nga ginhatagan lang anay sang duha ka porsyento nga tyansa nga mabuhi, apang subong pareho na nga healthy kag naka-graduate sa Kindergarten!
Ini ang istorya sang kapid nga sanday Abby kag Erin nga ginbun-ag nga tapikanay ang ulo ukon ginatawag nga craniopagus twins, isa ka kondisyon nga nagatapik ang ila nga bagul kag isa lang ang iban sa ila nga brain tissues.
Sa pagkamatuod, isa sa 2.5 million lamang ang tyansa nga makaangkon sang craniopagus twins rason nga espesyal ang kaso nanday Abby kag Erin.
Suno sa ila 33-anyos nga mommy nga si Heather Delaney, nagabusong pa lamang siya sang ginpahibalo sang doktor nga gamay lang ang tyansa nga mabuhi ang iya mga bata.
Hulyo 2016 sang ginbun-ag ang kapid, apang bangud sa kondisyon, wala anay sila ginpa-guwa sa neonatal intensive care unit sa Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia sa Pennsylvania.
Sang 2017, ginpaidalom sila sa 11 ka oras nga operasyon agud nga maseparar ang ila nga mga ulo.
Sang amo nga tion, malaka pa gid lamang ang naga-risgo sa kaangay nga operasyon rason nga tuman ang kahadlok sang pamilya, apang, tuman ang kalipay sang mommy kag daddy nga pareho nga nakaluwas ang duha ka bata.
Fast forward subong nga tuig, malapit na lang ang ila nga 7th birthday kag proud parents gid sanday Heather kag iya mister nga si Riley samtang ginalantaw ang paggraduate sang duha ka bata sa Kindergarten.
Mangin ang mga doktor ang haluson man makapati kun makita ang kapid, kag ginakabig ini isa ka milestone nga ila nalab-ot.#
Minilyon nga kwarta, naglapta sa dalanon sa Cebu matapos nagbukas ang bag sang collector
ILOILO CITY – Masami naton mabatian nagikan sa aton ginikanan nga indi kita makakita sang kwarta sa dalan.
Apang sa Cebu City, ini nga hurubaton sang aton ginikanan ang nabali.
Sa Cebu South Coastal Road, ang mga motorista ang nag-untat gid agud nga magkuha sang kwarta nga nagalapta sa dalan.
Suno sa otoridad, ang kwarta ang nagikan sa isa ka collector nga na-identify nga si John Mark Barrientos nga nagabyahe sa iya motorsiklo.
Pahayag ni Barrientos, dala niya ang masobra sa P4 million nga kwarta sa sulod sang iya money bag sang hinali nga nagbukas ang zipper.
Nagatrabaho siya sa isa ka money remittance center sa Cebu kag padulong na kuntani sa Mandaue City.
Ginabanta P2 million ang nabalik sa iya kag masobra pa sa P1 million ang nagapabilin nga missing.
May yara sang nagbalik sang kwarta samtang gina-trace pa sang otoridad ang mga closed-circuit televisions sa lugar agud nga ma-identify nga nagkwa sang kwarta.
Nagalaum naman si Barrientos nga ibalik sang iban ang nakuha nila nga kwarta bangud nga wala siya sang kaugalingon nga kwarta agud nga mabayaran ang nadula.
Football fan, ginpapanubli kay Neymar ang iya tanan nga manggad
Kadamo sang fans nga gusto makakuha sang bisan ano lang halin sa ila nga mga idol — halimbawa bisan T-shirt lang, pirma, picture, ukon bisan ano lang nga makapalipay sa ila.
Apang pinasahi ang isa ka football fan sa Brazil nga nag-deklarar sa isa ka testamento nga ang Brazilian football superstar nga si Neymar, Jr.
amo ang magasubli sang tanan niya nga manggad kun mapatay na siya!
Indi pa man tigulang ang amo nga fan bangud naga-edad pa lamang ini sang 31 anyos, apang iya gin-ako nga indi na maayo ang iya nga ikaayong lawas.
Suno sa wala na gin-identify nga fan, tuman ang iya nga pagpalangga sa national football team kag sa legasiya sang Brazil sa amo nga sports.
Maka-relate man ini sa istorya sang kabuhi ni Neymar, Jr.
kag ginadayaw gid sini kun daw ano ini ka family-oriented kag kun ano sini ka palangga ang iya nga amay.
Ginpahayag man sang fan nga wala siya sang bilinan sang iya pagkabutang bangud indi man niya gusto nga gobyerno ukon ang iya nga mga himata ang makakuha sini, samtang nagapati naman siya nga indi dalok si Neymar,Jr.
nga malaka na lamang nga batasan subong nga panahon.
Suno pa sa fan, pila ka beses na siya nga nagtinguha nga ihatag sa Paris Saint-Germain striker ang iya nga assets, apang ang pagbutang sang iya pangalan sa last will and testament amo ang makahimo sini nga legal.
Madamo ang naham-ot bangud isa man multi-millionaire player si Neymar kag ginakilala nga isa sa highest-paid athletes sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Nagapang-12 ang nasambit nga 31-anyos nga footballer sa listahan sang Forbes sa best-paid sportsmen sa kalibutan kag nagdangat sa $85 million ang iya nga estimated earnings sa 2023.#
Fan ni Taylor Swift, gintago ang identity bangud naglisensya nga nagamasakit agud nga makatambong sa concert
ILOILO CITY – Ang “The Eras Tour” ni Taylor Swift ang makabig nga “can’t miss event of the summer” kag ang pila sa mga fans ang nagahimo na sang kung anu-ano agud nga indi sila maka-miss out.
Sa Ohio, isa ka babayi ang hungod nga nagtago sang iya identity pinaagi sa pagtabon sang habol sa iya nawong kag pagsuksok sang sunglasses bangud nga naglisensya ini nga indi makatrabaho bangud nga nagamasakit agud lamang makatambong sang concert.
Ang babayi upod sa iya abyan ang nagbyahe pa halin sa Louisville padulong sa Cincinnati para sa “Era Tour” stop sa Paycor Stadium.
Nagalinya sila agud nga magkuha sang merchandise sang natu-unan sang camera sang isa ka television station.
Ginpaathag sang wala nagpakilala nga fan nga una na siya nga nadakpan sa concert ni Taylor sa Nashville.
Ang babayi nga nagapanago sa habol ang isa lamang sa mga examples sang mga fans nga nagapangita sang paagi agud nga makatambong sa concert ni Taylor.
Lalaki nga natak-an nga magpakig-istorya sa iban nga tawo bangud sang delayed flight, isahanon nga nagsakay sa eroplano
ILOILO CITY – Madamo na kita sang nabatian nga reklamo may kaangtanan sa atrasado nga byahe sang eroplano.
Bilang ordinaryo nga tawo, wala na kita sang mahimo kundi magreklamo na lamang kag mag-rant sa social media.
Apang lain ang nangin resulta sang delayed flight sa isa ka pasahero sa Estados Unidos.
Ang isa ka lalaki ang nangin isahanon nga pasahero sang eroplano matapos ang halos 18 ka oras nga delay sa iya scheduled flight nagikan sa Oklahoma padulong sa North Carolina.
Naghulat sang 17 ka oras kag 52 minutos si Phil Stringer antes mag-board sa iya flight.
Nadiskubrehan ni Phil nga ang iban nga mga pasahero nga makaupod niya kuntani sa flight ang nagsakay sa iban nga eroplano samtang ang iban ang wala na nagdayon pa.
Suno kay Phil, ginbakal niya ang tanan nga pulungkuan sa eroplano bangud natak-an na ini nga magpakig-istorya sa mga tawo.
Pahayag niya, nangin mabuot sa iya ang mga crew nga gintawag pa nagikan sa ila mga hotel nga nagahana na nga magtulog agud lamang nga maserbisyuhan siya.
Nakonsensya man siya sa effort sang mga crew apang sang ulihi, nangin abyan man niya ang mga ini.
Naglab-ot pa sa punto nga naga-text sila subong kag may group messaging pa.
Ikaw, ano ang masarangan mo nga himuon kun na-delay ang imo flight?
Ginisa nga bato, special delicacy sa China!
Isa ka man bala sa naglibog ang ulo sang imo nabatian ang ginisa nga mga bato?
May video sang damlag lang kun sa diin makit-an ang isa ka chef sa food stall nga nagagisa sang ahos, chili oil, kag bato!
Suno sa food historians sa China, ang ginisa nga bato ukon ang Suodiu ang naimbento sang mga manugpangisda sa Hubei province sang una nga panahon.
Ginpahayag nga kun madugayan ukon ma-stranded sila sa tunga sang Yangtze River, nagaluto sila sang bato, chili oil, garlic, kag iban pa nga pampasabor.
Agud indi makabatyag sang gutom, supsupon nila ang bato kag iluad man kun wala na sang damil ukon sabor.
Ginpahayag man nga medyo nalipatan lang ang delicacy nga ini sang may yara na sang motorized vessels kag mas madasig na ang byahe sa tunga sang suba.
Gin-share sang chef nga nagaluto sini nga halin sa idalom sang dagat ang bato nga gina-gamit sa Suodiu bangud magluwas nga makinis ini nga bato, sabor seafood man kuno ini kun ibutangna sa kalaha.
Mabakal sang 17 yuan ukon katumbas sang P132 ang kada serve sang Suodiu sa mga night market sa China.
Lalaki nga nakatiro sa iya nga tiil samtang nagadamgo, ginpasakaan sang kaso
Kun aksidente mo nga nasamaran ang imo kaugalingon, masami nga nagapangayo ka sang bulig sa iban agud mabulong ang imo pilas.
Apang sa bahin sang isa ka lalaki sa Chicago, nagapangatubang pa ini sang kaso matapos sini ginsugid sa pulis nga aksidente niya nga natiro ang iya nga tiil!
Ang 62-anyos nga lalaki nga si Mark Dicara residente sang Lake Barrington sa Illinois.
Isa ka adlaw, ginpatawag ang Lake County Sheriff deputies bangud sa report nga may isa ka tawo nga nagsuprer sang gunshot wound.
Sang nag-abot ang pulis, didto na kag nakit-an si Dicara nga nagakawad-an sang madamo nga dugo kag dali-dali ini nga gindala sa ospital.
Sang ulihi, ginsugid sini sa mga imbestigador nga nagdamgo siya nga may nagsulod sa ila nga balay kag sa pagpati nga isa ini ka kawatan, ginkuha niya ang iya nga .357 Magnum revolver.
Gintiro niya ang tawo nga nagsulod, apang amo na lang ang iya nga palak kag namurag-muragan bangud iya mismo tiil ang iya nga gintiro.
Didto kag nadiskubrehan pa gid sang pulis nga revoked na ang state firearm owner’s identification card apang ginahuptan pa ni Dicara ang armas.
Ang natabo, gin-isyuhan pa sang warrant ang lalaki bangud sa possession sang armas nga wala sang valid Firearm Owners Identification card kag ginpasakaan ini sang kaso nga reckless discharge of a firearm.
Gin-aresto pa ini sang pulis apang ginpaguwa man matapos nakapyansa.
Natalana sa Hunyo 29 ang hearing sa korte suno sa pulis.
Gas station clerk, nagpangabay sa isa ka tawo nga hold-up-un ini agud nga makapauli sang temprano nagikan sa iya trabaho
ILOILO CITY – Kun kapoy na sa trabaho kag nagadali nga magpa-uli, ano ang inyo nga excuse?
Sa Tulsa sa Oklahoma, USA, isa ka gas station clerk ang akusado sa pag-stage sang robbery bangud nga nakapoy na ini kag nagakinahanglan sang rason agud nga makapauli sang temprano.
Sang Hunyo 5, nagtawag si Isaisa Jones sa Tulsa Police Department kag nag-report nga isa ka lalaki nga nakasuksok sang mask ang nagtaya sa iya sang armas kag nagpahog nga tiruhon ini kung indi pag-ihatag ang tanan nga kwarta.
Nagpati si Isaias kag gilayon nga naglakat ang kawatan.
Base sa surveillance cameras, nakilala sang kapulisan ang kawatan kag sang natigayon na nga madakpan, ginkakibot sang otoridad ang ila natukiban.
Ang suspek nga nadakpan amo si Steven Jones, apang wala siya sang relasyon sa clerk nga si Isaias Jones.
Suno kay Steven, indi siya ang nagplano sa pagpang hold-up.
May isa ka babayi nga ginkilala kay Alyia Locke nga mutual friend sang duha nga amo ang nagpangabay kay Steven nga mang-hold up sa gas station.
Si Alyia ang gin-aresto kag gin-confirm sini ang pahayag ni Steven.
Gin-aresto man ang clerk kag gin-ako nga nag-contact ini kay Alyia nga pangitaan siya sang tawo nga mag-hold up sa gas station bangud nga kinahanglan niya sang rason agud nga makapa-uli sang temprano.
Ikaw, ano ang alibi mo agud nga makapauli sang temprano?
Mga ka-Bombo, kun ano man ang yara sa pinsar mo, indi na paghimu-a kay basi bwas, wala ka na sang ubra.
42-anyos nga janitress sa Cagayan, maga-graduate sa Kindergarten!
Ginabaha sang pagdayaw ang isa ka 42-anyos nga iloy kag janitress sa Tuguegarao, Cagayan nga natalana nga mag-graduate sa kindergarten sa masunod nga bulan.
Ini amo si Remilyn Dimla nga naga-trabaho mismo sa Tuguegarao East Central School kun sa diin naka-enroll ang iya anak sa Grade 1.
Ginpahayag nga na-obserbahan sang school administrators nga nabudlayan si Dimla nga magsulat sang iya nga pangalan kun magkuha ini sang modules sang iya nga bata, gani gin-encourage nila ini nga mag-enroll sa kindergarten agud makahibalo ini nga magsulat kag magbasa.
Bangud willing man ini nga magtuon, nagsulod si Dimla sa klase kun sa diin ang iya mga classmates ang naga-edad sang 4-5 ka tuig.
Suno pa sa titser, malapit ang buot ni Dimla sa mga bata kag “Auntie” ang tawag sa iya sa classroom.
Ginpakigbahin man sini nga wala siya naka-eskwela bangud nadulaan ini sang gana matapos nga gin-una sang iya nanay ang pagpaeskwela sa iya nga stepsister.
Subong nga manugtapos na ini sa Kindergarten, plano sini nga padayunon pa ang iya nga edukasyon.
Natalana ang iya nga graduation ceremony sa Hulyo 14.
Fan nga nagdalagan sa tunga sang pitch agud maghakos kag Lionel Messi, gin-ban sa football stadium
Sa tuman ka daku nga pangalan sang Argentine superstar nga si Lionel Messi, indi ka na makibot sang sarang mahimo sang fans agud lamang makapalapit sa amo nga football star nga ginakabig sang madamo nga G.O.A.T ukon Greatest Of All Time!
Sa China, napilitan ang otoridad nga i-ban sa football stadiums ang isa ka football fan matapos ini naghimo sang eksena, nagdalagan sa tunga sang pitch ukon playing field, kag naghakos kay Messi sa second half sang hampang.
Suno sa Chinese police, gin-detain ang amo nga 18-anyos nga fan nga ginkilala sa apelyido nga Di.
Wala partikular nga gin-detalye kun ano kalawig ang administrative detention sa iya, apang ginpahayag nga isa ka tuig ini nga banned sa pagsulod sa football stadiums.
Natabo ang agaw-eksena ni Di sang may friendly match ang Argentina kag Australia sa Workers’ Stadium sa Beijing sang nagligad nga semana.
Nakit-an sa video nga halin sa corner sang pitch ang football fan, nakalusot sa guards, kag nagdalagan pakadto kay Messi nga pareho sa iya nagasuksok man sa number 10 nga jersey sang Argentina.
Makit-an man ang kakibot sang world champion apang sang ulihi, ginhakos sini pabalik ang Chinese fan, apang tuman lamang ka dasig ang hitabo bangud nagakuyampad man ang tatlo ka security guards agud malagas ang Chinese football fan.
Nagsige sa pagdalagan ang fan; apang wala man sini ginpalampas ang pag-high five sa goalkeeper sang Argentina nga si Emiliano Martinez.
Sang ulihi, nakasandad ang solterito kag amo pa lang nadakpan sang guards kag ginbalik sa stands kun sa diin nagahinugyaw ang mga tawo kag halos mapa-“Sana All” bangud bisan nadakpan ini sang gwardya, nakahakos naman ini kay Messi kag naka-‘up here’ kay Martinez.
Suno sa pulis, nagpangayo naman sang pasaylo ang football fan bangud sa iya nga ginhimo kag ginbaton sini ang ginpapanaog nga penalidad halin sa public security organ.
May video man ini nga nagapangayo sang sorry kay Messi nga sa amo sini nga paagi sila nagkit-anay; apang iya man ginrason nga gusto lang niya ang autograph, apang wala na ini napangayo bangud sa iya pagpalagyo sa mga guwardya.
Nahibaluan nga sang ginpatigayon ang hampang nanday Messi batok sa Australia, masobra 50,000 ka Chinese fans ang nagdugok kag nagbatas sang kainit agud saksihan ang 2-0 nga kadalag-an sang Argentines batok sa Socceroos.
Kalabanan sa mga nagkadto ang nagsuksok sang replica shirts nga may numero dies kag pangalan ni Messi.
May ginatos man ka fans nga nagdugok sa guwa sang luxury hotel kag naglinya sa guwardyado nga dalan sa paglaum nga makapalapit kag makalantaw sa 35-anyos nga seven-time winner sang Ballon d’Or.
Fan ni Ricky Martin, nagpaidalom sa madamo nga cosmetic surgeries agud nga makopya ang histura sang iya idolo
ILOILO CITY – Ang isa ka avid fan ang handa nga maggasto agud nga maglantaw sang tanan nga concerts, block screening sang movies, ukon merchandise sang ila nga idol.
Apang, sa Argentina, mas sobra pa ang ginhimo sang isa ka avid fan sang Latino superstar nga si Ricky Martin.
Nagpaidalom man lang ini sa nagkalain-lain nga cosmetic procedures sa tinutuyo nga makopya ang look sang iya nga idol.
Ginhimo na ni Fran Mariano ang halos tanan nga pamaagi agud nga ma-transform ang kaugalingon kay Ricky Martin lakip na ang pagpa-inject sang motor oil sa iya nga kilay, kag madamo pa nga procedures nga nagresulta sa serious physical kag psychological effects.
Suno sa iya, halos indi na niya mabatyagan ang katunga sang iya nawong, ang iya nga ilong, kag ang iya nga sag-ang.
Sa tion nga mag-inom ini sang champagne, kinahanglan pa niya nga maggamit sang napkin bangud nga nagaka-ula ini sa iya.
Apisar nga indi na ang niya mabalik ang nahimo nga cosmetic enhancement, gusto ni Mariano nga ipakigbahin ang iya istorya sa paglaum nga indi ini paghimo sang iban.
Ikaw, ano ang masarangan mo nga himuon para sa tawo nga palangga mo… ang imo nga celebrity idol?
ILOILO CITY – Nagapangita ka bala sang pinasahi naman nga experience sa isa ka hotel?
Makit-an ini sa isa ka abandoned mine, 419 meters sa idalom sang kabukiran sang Snowdonia.
Apang antes maka-enjoy sang manami nga tulog kag pahuway, kinahanglan anay nga mag-agi sa ‘steep and challenging’ route sa mine site.
Ang kada gab-i nga stay ang nagabalor sang P38,438.
Ang Deep Sleep Hotel ang gin-inagurahan sang Abril kag bukas lamang tagsa ka Sabado.
Indi pwede ang walk in, gani kinahanglan nga mag-pareserve anay online.
Pagkatapos sang 45 minutes nga trekking sa kabukiran, ang mga guests ang magapondo anay sa isa ka magamay nga cottage kag maghanda sang ila isa ka oras nga pagpanaog sa hotel pinaagi sa mga daan nga hagdan, kag halos mga guba na nga taytay.
Kun maka-abot na sa hotel, ang mga guests ang ginahatagan sang ma-inom kag expedition-style meal, antes maka-enjoy sang ‘deep sleep’.
Ang temperatura ang nagapabilin sa 10 degrees Celsius sa bilog nga tuig.
Apang, indi lang ang manami nga tulog ang imo ma-enjoy.
Indi kagid ma-bore bangud nga may yara sang kuryente ang hotel kag may yara man sang Wi-Fi.
Gani, kun gusto mo nga mag-enjoy, magpalayo anay sa real world, ang Deep Sleep Hotel ang recommended gid para sa imo.
Apat ka bata nga nadula sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw matapos nagtibusok ang ginasakyan nga eroplano, nakit-an nga buhi sa lasang sa Colombia
ILOILO CITY – Masami naton mabatian nga tuman lamang ka gamay sang tsansa nga maluwas pa ang mga sakay sang nagtibusok nga eroplano.
Apang sa Colombia, tuman ang kalipay sang halos bilog nga pungsod bangud nga apat ka mga indigenous children ang nakita nga buhi, masobra isa ka bulan sang nag-crash ang ginasakyan nga eroplano.
Ang mga ini ang nakita sa Colombian Amazon rainforest nga puluy-an sang mga jaguars, man-og kag iban pa nga predators, kag subong man, armed drug smuggling groups.
Suno kay President Gustavo Petro, ipaidalom anay sa medical assessment ang apat.
Sang nagligad nga bulan, ginpahayag man ni Petro nga nakita na ang apat ka mga kabataan apang gilayon niya ini nga ginbawi bangud nga traces pa lamang sang mga kabataan ang nakita.
Ang mga kabataan nga naga-edad 13, siyam, apat kag isa ka tuig ang nagapanglakaton sa lasang humalin pa sang Mayo 1.
Ang bangkay sang piloto kag sang iloy sang mga kabataan, kag sang local Indigenous leader ang nakit-an sa crash site.
Kasunod sang pagtibusok sang eroplano, ginpatigayon ang massive search nga ginabug-usan sang 160 ka mga soldado kag 70 ka mga Indigenous people nga may ideya sa lasang.
Sa kahangawa nga magpadayon sa paglakat ang mga kabataan sang palibot sang lasang kag mabudlay ang pagpangita sa ila, naghulog sang 10,000 flyers ang air force nga may instructions sa Spanish kag sa indigenous language sang mga kabataan kag nagamandu sa ila nga magtinir lamang sa ila nahamtangan.
Naghulog man sila sang leaflets nga nagalakip sang survival tips, food parcels kag bottled water.
Suno sa militar, nakita sang rescuers ang mga kabataan ginabanta lima ka kilometro nagikan sa crash site.
Isa ka service dog sa New Jersey, nakabaton man sang college diploma
ILOILO CITY – Madamo na sang napamatud-an ang ido sa aton nga mga tawo.
Yara lamang sila nga wala nagabiya sa aton sa tion nga kinahanglanon ta sila.
Sa New Jersey, isa ka service dog ang ginhatagan man sang iya nga college diploma sa Seton Hall University.
Ang ido nga si Justin ang nangin kaupod na ni Grace Mariani sa iya pag-eskwela sa kolehiyo gani sang nagkuha ini sang diploma, yara man ang iya nga ido.
Nag-cheer ang mga graduates sang gindaho na sang presidente ang diploma kay Grace.
Nagtodo pagid ang pag-cheer sang yara sa sulod sang hall sang si Justin na ang nagkuha sang iya nga diploma.
Suno sa eskwelahan, ang anum ka tuig nga ido ang nagtambung gid sa tanan nga klase ni Grace gani deserve man niya ang college diploma.
Space travel company sa Florida, naga-offer sang space wedding sa balor nga halos P7M kada isa
ILOILO CITY – Ikaw bala ang kalaslon na?
Sa Florida, isa ka space travel company ang naga-offer sang chance para sa mga magkahagugma nga magpatigayong sang grand wedding sa punta sang space- “above 99% sang Earth’s atmosphere.”
Suno sa website sang Space Perspective, ang mga bisita ang maga-enjoy sa “quintessential astronaut experience” sa sulod sang duha ka oras agud nga makita ang curve sang kalibutan, ang iya total blackness, kag ang kahawa-an.
Sa baylo nga rocket, magagamit ini sang Spaceship Neptune nga isa ka pressurized capsule powered by a “SpaceBalloon” nga mahinay nga nagasaka kag matalunsay.
Ang period sang pagpasaka kag pagpanaog ang nagadangat sa anum ka oras, gani, may enought time gid kamo sang inyo partner nga magbayluhanay sang “I do’s” kag mag-celebrate sang okasyon upod ang inyo pinalangga sa kabuhi sa Space Lounge.
Ini ang nagabalor sang $125,000 ukon masobra sa P7 million sa kada isa.
Ang Space Perspective ang ginalauman nga magabukas officially sa 2024.
Kun ini ang gusto mo nga mangin wedding venue, mag-amat-amat na supot subong nga yara ka pa lang sa stage nga nagahibi sa sala nga tawo.
Nobya, nagpakig-abyan sa other woman sang iya nobyo kag nagpasugot nga makig-share sa iya
ILOILO CITY – Atensyon sa mga may boyfriends ukon girlfriends dira.
Sa mga wala, magbasa lang kay basi may madumduman ka!
Ano ang sarang mo nga mahimo para sa tawo nga palangga mo?
Kun ikaw ang ginatunto, i-tolerate mo ini ayhan agud lamang nga mapabilin ang inyo nga relasyon?
Sa Venezuela, isa ka babayi ang yara sa hot seat subong matapos gin-anunsiyo sa iya social media account nga nagpakig-abyan ini sa other woman sang iya nga nobyo kag nagpasugot pa ini nga makig-share sa iya.
Suno kay Sofía Gutiérrez nagikan sa Lecheria, Venezuela, natukiban niya ang pagpanglu-ib sang iya nobyo sang gin-check niya ang messages sini.
Sa baylo nga kumprontahun, nagdesisyon ini nga makig-angut sa secret lover sang iya nobyo.
Ang resulta, nangin mag-abyan na sila sang babayi nga ginkilala kay Sarahy Gill.
Suno pa kay Sofia, nabaton na niya nga ang iya nobyo ang ginapanag-iyahan man ni Sarahy nga yara lang sa tion nga kinahanglan ini sang iya boyfriend.
Matapos naglapta ang amo nga social media post, may yara sang nagkomento nga ang nobyo sang duha ang pinakamaswerte sa bilog nga kalibutan samtang ang iban ang may negatibo nga komento.
Isa ka ido, ginkilala bilang hero matapos ginluwas ang isa ka heart attack victim
Madamo na nga beses nga ginpamatud-an sang ido nga abyan ini sang tawo.
May yara gani sang ido nga ginbalewala ang kalayo, mabalikan lang ang iya nga tag-iya nga yara pa sa sulod sang nasunog nga balay!
Sa Japan naman, ginkilala nga isa ka hero ukon baganihan ang isa ka ido ang nagbulig sa isa ka lalaki nga ginaatake sa korason.
Ini nga ido ang lima ka tuig nga mixed-breed nga si Koume nga naga-trabaho sa isa ka horse-riding club sa Wakaba-ku, Chiba City bilang isa ka “mascot.” Nahibaluan nga tradisyon na sa amo nga club nga himuon nga empleyado ang mga babayi nga ido agud nga makatamyaw sa mga members sang club.
Ang doggy nga si Koume ang kilala man nga nanamian gid mag-upod sa tawo.
Isa ka adlaw, nagasunod ini sa isa ka lalaki sang gulpi lang natumba ang amo nga tawo.
Suno sa riding instructor nga yara sa amo nga area sang natabo ang insidentea, masami nga hipuson si Koume apang sang amo nga tion, tuman ka tunog kag wala untat ang taghol sini agud makaagaw lamang sang atensyon.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa nasapakan sang iban nga tawo ang lalaki nga kaupod sang ido, nagtawag sang ambulansya, kag nahingagaw sang paramedics nga masalbar pa ang iya nga kabuhi.
Gindayaw naman sang Wakaba Fire Department ang ginhimo sang ido kag gintawag ini nga perfect response.
Naka-recover na ang lalaki sa heart attack kag nagbalik sa nakaandan nga riding activities sa club.
Bilang pasalamat naman kag pagkilala kay Koume, ginpatambong ini sa isa special ceremony kun sa diin nakabaton ini sang letter of thanks halin sa Wakaba Fire Department.
Ginpahayag nga ang mentor ni Koume amo ang isa pa ka ido nga si Ume nga amo ang nagtudlo sa iya nga magpangayo dayun sang bulig kun may kaangay sini nga insidente.
US professor, nang-guba sang rekord sa pinakalawig nga tion sa pagpuyo sa idalom sang tubig
Kun masarangan mo nga magtinir sa idalom sang tubig sa sulod sang pila ka minutos, indi anay magpatama sang tikal bangud may yara gali sang tawo nga nangguba sang rekord kun kalawigon lang sang tinir sa tubig ang istoryahan!
Ini amo ang isa ka researcher sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga amo na subong ang ginakilala nga pinakamalawig ang tinir sa idalom sang tubig nga mas malawig pa sa 73 ka adlaw nga gintinir sang duha ka professors sang 2014 sa isa man ka Largo lodge.
Joseph Dituri nga 74 ka adlaw na sa idalom sang tubig sa Key Largo, Florida.
Kag wala pa ini sang plano nga mag-untat bangud may plano pa ini nga maglawig didto sa sulod sang 100 ka adlaw!
Gin-umpisahan ang iya misyon sang nagligad nga Marso 1, kag ang mayor nga katuyuan amo nga matun-an kun paano gina-handle sang lawas sang tawo ang long-term effects sang pagtinir sa idalom sang tubig nga may yara sang extreme pressure.
Nagatinir siya sa isa ka 100-square-foot nga habitat nga nahamtang 30 ka tapak ang kadalumon halin sa surface.
Ginatawag niya ini nga Jules’ Undersea Lodge.
Samtang yara siya didto, ginapadayon man ni Dituri ang pagtudlo sa biomedical engineering course apang online lamang.
Ini bangud sa amo nga underwater habitat, may yara man siya sang tululugan, may bathroom area nga may toilet kag fresh-water shower, kag may yara man sang kusina kag workspace.
Samtang padayon ang mission, may mga nagabisita man sa iya agud magdala sang pagkaon, kag may yara man sang medical team nga naga-check sa iya nga ikaayong lawas kag naga-conduct sang test.
Ginapaidalom man siya sa psychosocial kag psychological tests agud mahangpan ang mental effects kun nagaisahanon kag kun ma-stuck sa isa ka lugar nga limitado ang hulag.#
22-anyos nga lalaki, ginpamatud-an nga age doesn’t matter matapos ginpakaslan ang iya 48-anyos nga anay manunudlo
Sulit-sulit man ini sa aton pamatin-an, apang sa gihapon, ginakilig kita kun aton ini nga mabatian.
Sa isa ka pungsod sa Southeast Asia, ginahambalan subong ang istorya sang isa ka 22 anyos nga Malaysian man kag sang iya 48 anyos nga former teacher.
Una nga nakita ni Muhammad Danial Ahmad Ali ang iya future wife nga si Jamilah Mohd sang 2016 sa sulod sang classroom.
Wala pa sang something romantic sa ila nga relasyon apisar nga ginpahayag sang 22 anyos nga madumduman sa gihapon niya ang caring attitude kag ang closeness ni Jamilah sa iya mga estudyante.
Nadula ang komunikasyon sang duha sang yara na sa Form 4 class si Muhammad, apang nagkita-ay sila liwat.
Gintamyaw ni Muhammad si Jamilah apang sang na-recognize na niya ini sang yara na siya sa Form 5.
Gin-greet niya ini sa birthday kag nagsugod na ang ila nga pagbayluhanay sang mensahe.
Didto na kag nag-confess si Muhammad apang, gin-reject ini ni Jamilah bangud sang ila nga 26-year age gap pero wala gid nag-untat si Muhammad.
Apisar sang madamo nga rejection, napa-huo ni Muhammad si Jamilah.
Sa bulig sang ila pamilya, nagplano nga magpakasal ang duha sang 2019 apang gin-isol ang kasal sa 2021 bangud sang pandemya.
Suno kay Muhammad, age is just a number kag nakahanda ini nga himuon ang tanan agud nga matungdan ang responsibilidad sang isa ka maayo nga bana.
Si Jamilah ang nagpakigbulag sadto sa iya una nga bana sang 2017 kag nag-focus nalang sa trabaho, wala na sang tyempo sa paghigugma.
Apang si Muhammad lamang ang nakapabag-o sa iya desisyon bangud sa pagtinguha sini nga makuha ang iya matam-is nga huo.
Ukrainian nga si Boris Johnson, nadakpan nga naga-driver nga hubog sa Netherlands
ILOILO CITY – Kun ikaw ang isa ka pulis, ano ayhan ang reaksyon mo kun ang ma-apprehend mo isa ka anay prime minister?
Sa Netherlands, ginparahan sang pulis ang isa a driver nga nag-present sang indi mapatihan nga driver’s license.
Ini ang gin-isyu sang Ukraine kay Boris Johnson, ang anay prime minister sang United Kingdom.
Ginpapondo ang isa ka salakyan bangud nga ginsalakay sini ang sidewalk kag nagdire-diretso sa pagdalagan.
Nagpamalibad pa ang 35 anyos nga driver nga maghuyop sa breathalyzer apang sa ginpatigayon nga blood test, nahibaluan nga nakainom ini sang nag-drive.
Nakuha naman ang interes sang mga pulis bangud sa driver’s license sang lalaki nga nakapangalan kay Johnson kag ang expiration date, year 3, 000.
Indi pa klaro kun ngaa nga nagakapot sang peke nga driver’s license ang lalaki.
Apang suno sa isa ka Twitter user, ang kaangay nga dokumento ang bantog sa mga Ukrainian souvenir shops.
Mangin ang nag-comment ang may yara sang driver’s license ni Angela Merkel nga Former Chancellor sang Germany kag ni Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
82-anyos nga Lola, agaw-atensyon sa pag-bida sa skydiving sa Siquijor
Madamo sa aton ang may kahadlok sa heights ukon sa mataas nga mga lugar; apang pamati bala kay basi amo sini ang makabulig sa imo agud nga madula ang imo ginabatyag nga kurdam kun ara na ikaw sa ibabaw.
May isa ka 82-anyos nga Lola nga ginadayaw subong bangud apisar sang iya nga edad, maisog ini sa pag-skydive sa Siquijor!
Ini amo si Lola Iluminada Fabroa nga amo ang ginakilala nga pinakatigulang nga skydiver sa Skydive Siquijor dropzone — isa ka achievement nga sigurado mabudlay gid nga pirdehon!
Suno sa proud nga apo nga si Jeremiah Navarra nga isa man ka mountaineer, natural gid man gali nga adventurous ang iya nga Lola.
Sa pagkamatuod, sang 2022, nasaka pa nila ang Mt.
Apo nga amo ang pinakamataas nga peak sa Pilipinas!
Apisar nagakabalaka ang ila pamilya suno sa iya, nagapangita gid sang paagi si Lola agud nga masunod ang iya gusto.
Ginrason sini nga wala niya ini nahimo sang bata pa siya, gani subong niya ini i-enjoy.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas sa skydiving, madamo naman gali ang na-check sa bucket list ni Lola lakip na ang cliff diving kag canyoneering.
Mapati ka man kag sa indi, ini nga amazing Lola ang wala man sang maintenance medicine magluwas lang sa iya nga nakaandan nga multivitamins kag ang eye drops agud nga klaro sa panan-awan!
Si Lola nga tumandok sang Danao City ang may yara sang tatlo ka kabataan kag siyam ka mga apo.
ILOILO CITY – Sa tion nga magpadulong kita sa mga museum, ang masami nga ginahambal sa aton amo nga indi gid pagtandugon ang mga art installation.
Apang sa South Korea, isa ka art major student sa Seoul National University ang wala lamang nagtandog sang art installation kundi, ginkaon gid niya ini.
Sa Leeum Museum of Art sa Seoul, ginkaon ni Noh Huyn-soo ang saging nga kabahin sang installation sang Italian artist nga si Maurizio Cattelan.
Sa video nga kuha sang iya mga classmates, makita nga ginakaon ni Noh ang saging kag ginpatapik man sa dingding gamit ang duct tape nga gingamit sa pagpakabit sang saging.
Nagyuhom pa ini sa camera antes naglakat.
Ang artwork nga ginatawag nga “Comedian” ang isa sa biggest viral moments sa bilog nga kalibutan sang ginbaligya ini sa balor nga $120,000 ukon P6.6 million sa Art Basel Miami Beach sang December 2019.
Ang duha pa ka editions sang piece ang ginbaligya sa amo nga fair.
Ang 2019 artwork ang ginbutang sa Seoul-based museum kag magalawig tubtob sa Hulyo 16 suno sa The Korea Herald.
Ang saging ang gina-islan sa tagsa ka duha tubtob tatlo ka adlaw, kag wala ginabaligya.
Sang ginpamangkot si Noh sa iya motibo, ginpahayag sini nga nagutom lamang ini bangud nga wala nakapamahaw.
Sang ulihi, ginpahayag sini nga ang pagguba sang modern art ang makabig man nga artwork.
Wala naman sang may ginhatag nga penalidad ang museum batuk sa estudyante.
Lalaki sa China, ginpahalin sa iya trabaho bangud nadakpan nga nagalagaw apisar nga naka-sick leave
ILOILO CITY – Kung mag-sick leave gani, magpahuway.
Isa ka lalaki sa China ang nadula-an sang trabaho kag halos P5 million nga compensation matapos nakit-an nga nagalagaw apisar nga naka-sick leave.
Suno sa report, ginpanindugan sang korte ang nauna nga desisyon may kaangtanan sa termination sang isa ka empleyado nga naga-apelyido sang Xu nga nakit-an nga naga-travel kadungan sang iya duha ka semana nga medical leave.
Ginpahalin siya sa iya trabaho sa isa ka high-tech company sa China matapos ang masobra duha ka dekada nga pagtrabaho.
Base sa isa pa ka report, nag-file sang sick leave si Xu sang 2019 apang gin-reject ini sang iya manager bangud sang ongoing project.
Liwat ini nga nag-file sang July 18-31 kag ginlakip sini ang mga medical certificates bilang pamatuod nga nagasuprer ini sang paglingin sang ulo kag spinal condition nga nagakinahanglan sang bed rest nga gin-aprubahan man sang manager.
Kadungan sang iya medical leave, nakit-an ini sang iya nga kaupod sa trabaho sa isa ka airport sa Hainan kag gin-report ini sa ila nga team lead.
Gintawgan siya apang nagpanindugan ini nga nagtinir siya sa iya balay base sa rekomendasyon sang doctor.
Gin-terminate ini bangud sa “fraud and dishonesty” nga nagresulta sa labor dispute.
Ginpabayad sang labor tribunal ang kompaniya ni Xu bangud sang pagbayolar sang labor laws.
Nag-appeal ang kompaniya kag nag-appeal man si Xu.
Ang rason ni Xu, nagpauli ini sa iya balay sa Hainan agud nga magpahuway.
Apang sang ulihi, gin-apinan sang korte ang kompaniya sa rason nga wala nagpati si Xu sa iya doctor nga magpahuway samtang nga naga-masakit.
Lalaki, nagluhod sa atubang sang ulubrahan sang iya nga ex-girlfriend sa paglaum nga balikan siya sini
ILOILO CITY – Kun indi na sa imo ang isa ka tawo, ano ang himuon mo?
Ano ang sarang mo nga mahimo agud nga magbalik siya sa imo?
Sa Sichuan province sa China, isa ka lalaki ang nagluhod sa gwa sang ulubrahan sang iya nga ex-girlfriend sa sulod sang masobra sa 20 ka oras sa paglaum nga balikan siya sini.
May isa ka lalaki nga naghambal sa iya nga wala na sang pulos ang iya pagluhod bangud nga wala man sang plano nga magpakigkita sa iya ang iya ex-girlfriend.
May yara man sang nagtawag sang pulis apang gin-kwestiyon ini sang lalaki bangud suno sa iya, indi man iligal ang pagluhod sa nasambit nga lugar.
Sang ulihi, nagtindog na ang lalaki bangud posible nga indi na ini maka-agwanta sang tuman nga katugnaw.
Indi pa klaro kun ngaa nga ginbulagan siya sang iya ex-girlfriend.
May yara sang nagahambal nga indi na dapat pagpakahuy-an sang lalaki ang iya nga kaugalingon kag i-let go nalang ang babayi.
Hambal gani nila, kung palangga mo ang isa ka tawo, kinahanglan mo na ini nga i-let go.
Indi bangud nga wala ka sang labot, kundi bangud nga na-realize mo nga “they actually deserve better”.
Lima ka tuig nga bata, ginregaluhan sang isa ka luxury SUV agud ma-inspire nga mag-eskwela
Ano bala ang naga-inspire sa imo nga magtuon sang gamay ka pa?
Ang candies ukon ang paborito nga pagkaon nga baklon sang imo iloy kag amay?
Sa Malaysia, agaw-atensyon gid ang regalo sang mag-asawa sa ila lima ka tuig nga bata agud lamang nga ma-engganyo ini nga mag-eskwela na.
Sini lang nga bulan, may yara sang video ang iloy nga negosyante kun sa diin ginpamangkot sini ang anak nga si Fatima kun ano ang iya gusto para sa iya birthday.
Nag-promise man ang bata nga makadto na ini sa school kun hatagan ini sang iya gusto.
Sa separado pa nga video, nakatabon na ang mata ni Fatima sang gin-sorpresa siya sang iloy kag amay sang isa ka luxury sports utility vehicle bilang iya nga birthday gift!
Suno sa iloy, grabe ang excitement sang iya anak nga haluson na sini buy-an ang yabi sang amo nga salakyan.
Ginpaathag man sang iloy nga nag-desisyon siya kag ang iya bana nga ihatag kay Fatima kun ano ang gusto sini sa iya birthday agud nga ma-motivate ini nga mag-eskwela kag matuman ang iya handum nga mangin isa ka doktor.
50-anyos nga Spanish mountain climber, nagtinir sa sulod sang kweba sa sulod sang 500 ka adlaw
ILOILO CITY – Sang nagtimbuok ang kaso sang Coronavirus Disease 2019, madamo sang gin-quarantine.
Ang kadam-an ang halos indi mahamtang samtang nga gina-isolate.
Apang paano kun 500 ka adlaw ang quarantine period, masarangan mo ayhan?
Sa Spain, isa ka 50-year-old Spanish mountain climber ang naggwa sa isa ka underground nga kweba kun sa diin, isa ka tuig kag tunga ini nga nag-isolate bilang kabahin sang eksperimento sa epekto sang isolation sa lawas sang tawo.
Suno kay Beatriz Flamini, sa sulod sang malawig nga tion, kaugalingon lamang niya ang iya nga na-istorya.
Ginsuguran ni Flamini ang challenge sang November 21, 2021– antes ang pagsakup sang Russia sa Ukraine kag samtang ang bilog nga kalibutan ang naga-antos sa pandemya.
Nagpabilin siya 70 meters (230 feet) underground, magluwas lamang sa isa ka semana kun sa diin, napilitan ini nga magbiya sa kweba bangud sa natabo nga problema sa internet router kag kinahanglan niya ang bulig.
Samtang nga yara ini sa sulod sang kweba, nagabasa lamang siya sa bulig sang artificial lights, naga-exercise man siya kag naga-bag crochet stitching.
Apang, gina-monitor man siya sang technical team nga amo ang nagabilin sang pagkaon sa exchange point sa kweba.
Ini naman ang ginakabig sang iban nga “extreme endurance test”.
Suno kay Flamini, isa sa pinakamabudlay nga tion sa sulod sang kweba ang natabo sang nagsulod ang madamo nga langaw.
Apang, indi kaangay sang iban, si Flamini ang wala gid nagbiya sa kweba.
‘Alcoholic’ dog: Coco, ang ido nga na-rescue gikan sa addiction sini sa makahulubog nga ilimnon
Pinasahi ang kaso sang isa ka labrador sa United Kingdom nga amo subong ang ginakilala bilang pinaka-una nga ido nga nabulong ang adiksyon sa makahulubog nga ilimnon.
Naga-edad sang duha ka tuig ang labrador nga si Coco sang na-rescue ini kaupod ang isa pa ka ido bangud nagtaliwan na ang ila tag-iya.
Sunod nga gindala si Coco kag ang kaupod sini sa Woodside Animal Welfare Trust sa Plymouth, Devon apang wala sang ideya ang staff kun ano ang problema sang duha ka canines.
Ulihi na natalupangdan nga adik gali sa alcohol ang duha ka ido bangud sa sulod sang malawig nga tinuig, nangin batasan sang ila tag-iya nga ibilin ang botelya sang ilimnon sa guwa sang ila nga balay nga amo naman ang ginbulos kag gin-enjoy sang mga ido.
Tuman ang pagka-adik sang duha ka ido sa ilimnon rason nga napatay man ang kaupod ni Coco sang tion nga wala na ini naka-inom sang alcohol, samtang gingamitan naman si Coco sang sedative drug sa sulod sang isa ka bulan agud nga mapakalma.
Suno sa dog shelter, amat-amat na subong nga nagabalik sa normal ang paghulag ni Coco apang indi pa ini handa sa adoption bangud kun kaisa, makit-an pa ang pagsala-sala sini.
Nalipay man ang Woodside Animal Welfare Trust nga matapos ang sinemana nga pagtatap kay Coco, malapit na lang ini nga maka-recover sa pinasahi nga canine alcohol addiction kag malapit na lang ma-adopt kag makaangkon sang panibag-o nga tag-iya nga magapalangga sa iya.
Sapatos nga ginsuksok ni NBA superstar Michael Jordan, nabaligya sa masobra P121 million
Kun basketball ang pagahambalan, wala sang paglubad ang pangalan ni Michael Jordan sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Halangpon man kun ngaa kada basketball fan gusto gid sang iya picture, pirma, ukon bisan ano nga memorabilia!
Nabaligya sang damlag lang sa balor nga $2.2 million ukon katumbas sang masobra P121 million ang pares sang sapatos nga ginsuksok sang nasambit nga NBA superstar!
Suksok ni Jordan ang “Bred” Air Jordan 13s sang Game 2 sang 1998 NBA Finals sang padulong na siya sa iya ika-anum kag katapusan nga NBA championship title.
Matapos nga nabaligya ang sapatos sa amo nga balor, si Jordan subong ang nabutang sa posisyon bilang “most valuable athlete” sa auctions para sa sportswear memorabilia.
Indi man ini ugaling bag-o para sa amo nga basketball great bangud sang nagligad nga tuig, nabaligya ang isa sa iya jerseys sa balor nga $10.1 million ukon masobra P557-million nga amo ang pinakamahal sa auction nga halin sa mga nasuksok sang mga atleta sa hampang.
Suno sa auction house, may autograph ni Jordan ang amo nga sapatos kag ginhatag sa ball-boy pagkatapos sang hampang sang 1998.
Kilala ang amo nga sapatos bilang “Bred” bangud sa “black and red color”, ang istilo nga ginasuksok ni Jordan sa kalabanan sang iya nga mga hampang sa NBA.
South African pilot, madinalag-on nga nagapahugpa ang eroplano apisar nga may yara sang dalitan nga man-og sa iya likod
ILOILO CITY – Gindayaw sang mga otoridad ang isa ka South African pilot nga nagpatigayon sang emergency landing apisar nga nagkamang sa iya pulungkuan ang makamandag ukon dalitan nga man-og bangud sang pagpakita sini sang indi basta-basta nga kaisog.
Suno sa report, si Rudolf Erasmus ang nagadala sang isa ka gamay nga private aircraft nga may apat ka mga pasahero nagikan sa Bloemfontein padulong sa Pretoria sang nabatyagan sini ang isa ka dako nga Cape Cobra nga nagakamang sa iya likod.
Apisar sang tuman ka dako nga pressure, napahugpa sini ang eroplano nga wala sang may natabo nga insidente.
Suno kay Erasmus, nabatyagan niya ang man-og sa tunga-tunga pa lamang sang flight matapos ang malamig nga butang nga nagdapat sa iya likod.
Ang mga Cape cobras ang makita sa southwestern South Africa kag may makamamatay nga kamandag nga nagakinahanglan sang gilayon nga treatment sang anti-venom.
Apat ka tuig nga lalaki, ginkilala bilang pinaka-bata nga author sa bilog nga kalibutan
Pila na ang imo edad sang natun-an mo nga magsulat sang tula, essay, ukon bisan gani mag-master sa pag-construct sang maayo nga paragraph?
Dalayawon subong ang isa ka apat ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki sa Saudi Arabia nga amo ang ginkilala sang Guinness World Records bilang pinaka-bata nga author sa bilog nga kalibutan matapos naka-baligya na sang masobra isa ka libo ka kopya sang iya libro nga “The Elephant Saeed and the Bear”.
Ang children’s book nga ini ang ginsulat ni Saeed Rashed AlMheiri.
Istorya ini sang kindness kag wala ginlauman nga pag-abyanay sa tunga sang isa ka elepante kag isa ka polar bear.
Suno sa young author, gusto-gusto gid niya nga ginabasa niya ang iya nga istorya sa iya ginikanan kag mga abyan sa eskwelahan.
Magluwas sa pagsulat kag pagbasa, isa pa gid sa hilig ni Saeed amo ang mathematics bangud luyag man niya nga mag-solve sang math problems kaupod sa iya nga iloy.
Indi man ini bag-o sa pamilya ni Saeed bangud ang nag-inspire sa iya nga makahimo sini nga rekord amo mismo ang iya utod nga babayi nga amo ang former record holder para sa “youngest person to publish a bilingual book (female)” kag “youngest person to publish a bilingual book series (female)” sang siya naga-edad pa lamang sang walo ka tuig.
Gin-share man ni Saeed nga dungan sila sang iya magulang nga nagabasa, nagasulat, kag naga-enjoy sa ila drawing kag iban pa nga activities bilang mga bata.
Sa bata nga edad, may ginlunsar man ang utod nga babayi nga “Books from Children to Children” initiative nga amo ang naga-engganyo sa mga bata edad apat tubtub 10 ka tuig nga mag-sulat, mag-illustrate, kag maghimo sang libro para sa iban nga mga kabataan.
Masako na subong ang mag-utod para sa ila masunod nga mga libro kag handa man nga mang-guba sang masunod nga mga rekord sa kalibutan.
Buhi nga babayi, 10 ka oras nga nag-antos sa sulod sang pantyon sa Brazil
Nagdangat sa 10 ka oras ang gin-antos sang isa ka 36-anyos nga babayi sa sulod sang pantyon antes natigayon nga ma-rescue sang otoridad sa Brazil.
Suno sa police record sa southeastern state sang Minas Gerais, may mga nanotisyaran ang mga empleyado sa sulod sang municipal cemetery nga may nagalapta nga dugo sa guwa sang bag-o lang na-semento nga pantyon.
Didto kag ila gintawagan ang emergency services.
Sang nag-abot ang pulis, may nabatian pa nga tingog sa sulod nga nagapangayo sang bulig.
Sang ginguba na ang semento, didto na kag nabutong ang buhi nga babayi nga may mga pilas sa iya ulo kag kamot.
Naguwa sa imbestigasyon sang mga pulis nga posible nagtimalos ang isa ka gang sa amo nga biktima bangud sa iya balay ginpangtago ang mga iligal nga droga kag armas, apang nagkaladula.
Suno pa sa babayi, may duha ka nakamaskara nga lalaki nga nagsulod sa iya balay kag nag-atake sa iya bana apang nakapalagyo ini.
Padayon subong nga ginabulong ang babayi sa ospital samtang ginapangita naman ang mga suspects.
Pastor sa South aAfrica nga madugay nga nagtinir sa morgue sa paglaum sang pamilya nga mabanhaw ini, ginlubong na gid man
ILOILO CITY – Kung may mapatay gani nga myembro sang pamilya, gilayon gid kita nga nagahimos agud nga malubong na labing madali nga panahon.
Sa kinaandan, isa lamang ka bulan ang pinakadugay nga haya sang bangkay kag ginalubong sa gilayon.
Apang, sa South Africa, naglawig pa sa duha ka tuig ang ginhulat sang pamilya agud nga ilubong ang pari nga napatay sang 2021 kag nagtinir pa sa mortuary sa sulod sang 600 ka adlaw.
Ini bangud nga nagapati ang pamilya nga mabanhaw pa ini.
Matapos nga napatay ini bangud sa masakit, ang iya pamilya ang nagabalik sa mortuary agud pangamuyu-an ang iya pagbalik.
Wala man nila ginhatagan sang otoridad ang mortuary nga ilubong ini kag i-cremate.
Nagligad ang mga binulan, gina-contact sang mortuary ang iya pamilya agud nga malubong na ang pastor bangud sa serious health and environmental risks.
Wala nagapasugot ang pamilya tubtob nga nagdangop na sa korte ang tag-iya sang morgue.
Suno sa pamilya, nagapati sila nga mabanhaw pa ang pastor.
Apang, bangud nga mangin ang mga local authorities ang nagareklamo na sa health hazards sang lawas, nagpasugot ang korte nga ilubong na ini.
Sining damlag lang, ginlubong na gid man ang bangkay ni Moddley.
Ang iya asawa kag mga kabataan ang wala nagtambong sa seremonya.
Pulis, na ‘wow mali’ matapos nasal-an nga patay nga tawo ang dala sang pari nga Santo Entierro sa iya salakyan
Indi makahibalo sang iya batyagon ang isa ka pari sang hinali lang ini nga ginpadulog sang pulis kag diutayan lang nga gin-hold sa pagdumdum nga nagpatay ini sang tawo kag ginkarga sa iya nga salakyan.
Halin si Father Jonel sa Digos City sa Davao del Sur kag pauli na dala ang life-size Santo Entierro ukon ang patay nga Kristo nga gamiton kuntani para sa Semana Santa.
Pauli na si Father sang ginparahan ini sang pulis sa Kidapawan City, ang provincial capital sang Cotabato.
Ginpaguwa ang pari sa salakyan bangud kuno nga may karga ini nga patay nga tawo.
Nagapamalhas ang pari sa pagpaathag nga patay nga Kristo ang iya nga dala, apang indi magpati ang mga pulis kag ginpaagi gid sa inspeksyon.
Kinahanglan pa ni Father nga buksan ang putos sang Santo Entierro kag sugidan ang mga pulis nga isa sya ka pari agud nga mag-untat na sila sa pagpamangkot.
Sang na-realize naman sang mga pulis nga si Kristo matuod ang dala ni Father,nangayo man sila sang pasaylo bangud abi nila, may napatay si Father kag ginkarga lang sa salakyan agud nga ihal-id sa dalan.
Amay sa Spain, ginguba ang BMW sang iya hubog nga anak agud nga indi na ini mag-drive
ILOILO CITY – Ang paghigugma sang isa ka amay para sa iya mga anak ang tuman ka dalom apang masami ini nga ginapakita sa indi kinaandan nga pamaagi.
Kaangay na lamang sang istorya sang isa ka 60 anyos nga amay nagikan sa Logroño, Spain agud nga masiguro nga ‘palainom’ nga anak ang indi madisgrasya sa iya salakyan kag makatuga pa sang trahedya.
Nakabaton ang pulis sang report nga may yara sang isa ka lalaki nga naga-vandal sang isa ka salakyan nga naka-park sa isa ka public road.
Sang nagresponde ang pulis, nakita nila nga nagpalagyo ang isa ka van kag gilayon nga ginpapondo.
Naabtan sang mga pulis ang isa ka tigulang nga lalaki kag ang hubog nga mas bataon nga pasahero.
Sang ginpamangkot sang otoridad, natukiban nga ang tigulang ang nag-vandal sang 32 anyos niya nga anak.
Ginpaathag sang amay nga ginkumbinsi niya ang iya anak nga indi mag-drive nga nakainom apang wala ini nagpati.
Bangud sang kakulba sa mahimo nga matabo, ginguba niya ang binatana sang salakyan, ginpakupos ang ruyda kag ginlampusan ang salakyan.
Indi pa klaro kun bala, ginkasuhan ang amay bangud sa ginhimo sini sa salakyan sang iya anak.
Defying the Odds: Most premature babies sa kalibutan, nag-celebrate sang ila 1st birthday!
Milagro para sa ginikanan sa Canada nga masaksihan ang first birthday sang ila anak nga kapid nga amo ang ginakilala nga pinaka-premature nga kapid sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Nabun-ag ang babies nga sanday Adiah kag Adrial Nadarajah sang Marso 4, 2022 sa edad lamang nga 22 weeks ukon 126 ka adlaw.
Nagabug-at lamang sila sang 330 gramos kag 420 gramos, kag sila man ang pinakamag-an nga babies suno sa Guinness World Records.
Sang ginbun-ag ang duha, may yara gid lamang sang zero percent chance of survival suno sa doktor.
Todo ang pasalamat sa iloy nga si Shakina Rajendram bangud sa dalayon, ginpadaku nila kag gintatap ang kapid tubtub nga nabatyagan niya nga alive and kicking na si baby boy kag si baby girl!
Matapos ang anum ka bulan nga pagtinir sa ospital kun sa diin may mga kumplikasyon pa nga natabo kaangay sang brain bleeding kag sepsis, ginpapauli na gid man sa balay ang kapid.
Sang gintatap na sa balay, 18 ka beses ang gindaku ni Adiah halin sa iya nga birthweight!
“She’s an extremely happy and social baby, and smiles all day long,” pahayag sang iloy.
Sa subong suno sa mommy, may nagakatabo gihapon nga infections kag respiratory issues sa iya bata nga si Adrial apang masami man gina-check sa ospital, wala ginapabay-an, kag makit-an gid ang progress sa lawas.
Iloy nga tuman ang kahadlok sa Covid-19, gin-isolate ang kaugalingon kag ang anak sa balay sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig
Sang kasagsagan sang Covid-19, indi halos magduot ang aton kamot sa iban nga mga tawo sa kahadlok nga maglapta ang virus.
Dumduman mo pa ang tion nga may mga plastic barrier sa jeep kag halos duha ka face mask ang suksukon mo sa kada adlaw?
Sa India, may isa ka tumalagsahon nga kaso sang Covid-19 paranoia kun sa diin tatlo ka tuig gid nga gin-lock sang isa ka iloy ang iya kaugalingon kag ang iya anak nga lalaki sa ila balay sa kahadlok nga mapatay sila sa Covid-19 kun maguwa sila sa ila nga puluy-an sa city of Gurugram, south-west sang New Delhi.
Ginapahayag nga 7-anyos pa lamang ang anak sang nag-umpisa ang Covid-19, kag lakip man anay ang mister sa gin-lock sang misis nga si Mrs.
Sang naghalog na ang lockdown restrictions, nagpamilit ang bana nga isa ka engineer nga maguwa bangud maga-trabaho na ini, apang sang nagguwa ini sa balay, indi na ini pagpabalikon sang iya misis.
Bangud sini, napilitan ang bana nga mag-renta na lamang sang apartment apang nagpabilin ang kahangawa sini sa iya misis kag anak gani nga nagadala siya gihapon sang pagkaon sa guwa sang balay kag siya man ang nagabayad sang utility bills.
Sang ulihi, subong lang nga Pebrero, nanugid na ini sa pulis agud may makabulig sa iya asawa kag anak.
Sang nag-responde ang pulis, nakit-an nga puno sang nagatangkas nga basura kag mga wala-tuo nga drawings sang bata ang balay.
Ginpahayag nga wala man sang ihibalo ang mga kasilingan nga gin-isolate ni Mrs.
Majhi ang iya kaugalingon kag ang iya anak.
Gindala na sila nga duha sa psychiatric ward para sa treatment kag nagalaum naman ang bana nga makabalik sa normal ang ila nga kabuhi.
Lalaki sa Thailand, ginpa-tattoo ang marriage certificate sa iya kamot bilang regalo sa iya asawa.
ILOILO CITY – Sa mga asawa, ano na ang pinakamanami nga gift nga ginhatag sang inyo bana sa inyo?
Bulak, alahas, luxury bags, salakyan ukon wala gid?
Sa Thailand, madamo ang nagdayaw sa isa 34-anyos nga lalaki matapos nga ginpa-tattoo sini ang ila nga marriage certificate sa iya kamot bilang regalo niya sa iya asawa.
Ang marriage certificate ang napalibutan pa sang floral frame kag may stamp pa.
Suno kay Vall, walo ka oras ang iya pagpungko sa tattooing chair apang nangin worth it man ini bangud nga napalipay niya ang iya asawa.
Dugang pa niya, ang tattoo ang mangin reminder niya.
Sa tion nga mag-away sila sang iya asawa, tulukon lamang niya ang iya tattoo kag panumdumon ang mga adlaw nga sila ang “passionate” kag “crazy in love” sa isa kag isa.
Paagi sini, panubu-on niya ang iya personal ego kag antuson ang tanan agud nga magapabilin nga malipayon ang ila pamilya kag mapadako nga successful ang ila mga kabataan.
Sa sini nga istorya, mapapa-SANAOL gid kita.
Sa pila ka adlaw, may yara gid sang maabot sa imo kabuhi nga magpabatyag sa imo nga palangga ka, ginarespeto ka kag gina-appreciate.
Kuring, naglumpat halin sa 18th floor sang building, buhi gihapon
Nagapati ka bala nga may siyam ka kabuhi ang mga kuring?
Lantawa ini nga video sang isa ka kuring sa Cebu City nga naglumpat halin sa 18th floor sang isa ka building sa Barangay Labangon.
Ginapahayag nga nagtawag ang mga residente sang rescuers agud ma-luwas ang isa ka kuring nga yara sa ledge sang isa ka condominium sa amo nga barangay.
Pag-abot sang City Animal Disaster Rescue Team, makit-an gid kun ano ang ila paghinay-hinay kag pag-halong agud nga mabutang sa net ang pobre nga kuring.
Pero sa baylo nga mag-kooperar kag magsulod sa net, sa kakibot sang tanan, naglumpat ini halin sa iya ginapungkuan!
Halin sa ika-18 nga panalgan, nagtupa ini sa atop sang second floor, kag mapati ka kag sa indi, buhi ini gihapon!
Gilayon nga gindala ang kuring sa veterinarian agud nga ma-check.
Safe na ini subong apang magapabilin anay sa doktor para sa dugang nga obserbasyon.##
Mga ex-girlfriends, nag-crash sa kasal sang groom agud nga gub-on ini
ILOILO CITY – Atensyon sa mga manugpakasal dira.
Sigurado bala kamo nga natapos na ukon nasolbar na ang issue sa inyo mga ex-boyfriends ukon sa mga ex-girlfriends?
Siguraduha na nga daan kay basi magpareho kamo sa natabo sa isa ka lalaki sa Hengdi Village, Yunan province sang China.
Sa adlaw sang iya kasal, nagtipon ang iya dinosena nga mga ex-girlfriends kag nagpakita agud nga magsabotahe sa iya wedding ceremony.
May mga bitbit ini nga red banner nga may nakabutang nga “We are Chen Song’s ex-girlfriends, and today we will destroy you”.
Abi sang iban prank lang apang matuod gid nga ex-girlfriends sila ni Chen.
Tuman naman nga nahuy-an ang groom bangud nga ginka-akig ini sang iya bride kag sang pamilya sini.
Gin-ako naman ni Chen nga indi nangin maayo ang treatment niya sa iya nga mga ex-girlfriends apang ginpahayag man niya nga nagbag-o na siya.
Nagpanugyan naman si Chen sa mga kalalakinhan nga respetuhon ang mga nobya, kag mangin loyal bangud indi basta-basta ang balos sang mga babayi.
Mag-asawa nga may pito na ka mga anak, nadugangan pa sang quintuplets!
Milagro kun kabigon sang Polish-British couple ang natabo sa ila pamilya sa mismo Valentine’s Day bangud sa pagbun-ag sang misis sa premature quintuplets!
Antes ang lima ka mga bata nga dungan nga ginbun-ag ni Dominika Clarke sa isa ka ospital sa Krakow, Poland, may yara na sila nga daan nga pito ka mga anak sang iya bana nga si Vince.
Suno sa misis, plano lang kuntani nila nga mag-angkon sang ika-walo nga bata apang wala man naghaum nga set gali ini sang quintuplets — tatlo ka baby girls kag duha ka baby boys!
Na-deliver ang babies paagi sa caesarean apang nag-require pa sang respiratory support bangud naga-edad pa lamang sila sang 29 weeks.
Ang babies ang ginpangalanan nga sanday Arianna Daisy, Charles Patrick, Elizabeth May, Evangeline Rose kag Henry James.
Ginapahayag “1 in 55,000,000 births” ang tyansa sa pag-angkon sang quintuplets.
Hotel sa Cebu, nagatanyag sang lima ka adlaw nga paid leave sa brokenhearted nga mga empleyado
Nakaagi ka na bala sang klase sang heartbreak nga wala ka halos sang maobra kag hibi lang ang imo masarangan?
Subong nga nagahilapit ang Valentine’s Day, agaw-atensyon ang ginahimo sang isa ka hotel sa Cebu para sa ila mga empleyado nga broken-hearted.
Lakip diri ang mga binayaan, gin-luiban, ginbaylo, kag iban pa nga makasulumpa nga mga hitabo sa patag sang paghigugma.
Ini nga hotel ang nagatanyag sang lima ka adlaw nga “paid breakup leave” sa ila broken-hearted employees.
Suno sa management sang Cebu Century Plaza Hotel, indi mahapos nga bayaan, pero at least, makabulig sila sa pag-move on.
Gin-share man sang chief executive officer nga halin ini nga ideya sa iya personal nga eksperyensya; sang una suno sa iya, bangud sa malain nga relasyon, naga-duty siya nga lutang ukon wala sa kaugalingon gani apektado gid ang iya nga trabaho.
Nagapati man siya nga indi productive ang iya staff kun broken-hearted gani pwede sila maka-leave sa sulod sang lima ka adlaw bangud lima ka adlaw man ang iya ginapatihan nga healing period.
Lakip sa breakup leave amo ang beauty package nga may pa-facial treatment kag body scrub!
Bisan probationary employees suno sa management, mahimo man maka-avail sa sini nga offer.
Ginapahayag nga ang regular employees ang mahimo nga maka-avail sang lima ka mga “paid breakup leave” kada tuig sa kondisyon nga lain-lain man ang ila lover nga ginahibian.
Siyam ka tuig nga bata sa Pennsylvania, may high school diploma na
ILOILO CITY – Ang normal nga edad sang naga-gradwar sa junior high school diri sa Pilipinas amo ang 16.
Apang, napa-wow naman ang kalibutan bangud sa Pennsylvania, isa ka siyam ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki ang naka-graduate na sa high school.
Ang handum ni David Balogun nga mangin isa ka astrophysicist ang dali nalang niya nga malab-ot.
Nagsugod si David sa pag-eskwela sa Harrisburg-based Reach Cyber Charter School bilang grade three kag subong, ginhatagan sang high school diploma matapos nga nakumpleto ang iya mga klase nga ginpatuman online sa ila puluy-an sa Bensalem.
Suno sa iya, gusto niya nga himuon ang isa ka bagay bangud nga may abilidad ini kag masarangan.
Ginatinguha-an niya nga makuha ang iya black belt sa karate.
Nakumpleto na niya ang isa ka semester sa Bucks County Community College kag nagaplano nga magpangita sang isa ka kolehiyo ukon unibersidad agud nga maka-eskwela sang apat ka tuig.
Gusto gid ni David nga tun-an ang black holes kag mga supernovas.
Bata nga babayi sa Estados Unidos, naghingyo sa kapulisan nga ipaidalom sa DNA test ang cookie agud nga mahibaluan kun bala matuod si Santa Claus
ILOILO CITY – Diri sa Pilipinas, madamo sang nagapati nga naga-exist si Santa Claus apisar nga wala nila personal nga nakita ini.
Sa Rhode Island sa Estados Unidos, isa ka bata nga babayi ang nagpadala sang sulat sa Cumberland Police Department nga naga-ayo nga kun mahimo, ipaidalom sa DNA test ang cookie kag carrot nga ginapatihan ginkaon ni Santa Claus kag sang iya siyam ka mga reindeers.
Ang nabilin nga pagkaon ang ginpasa sa Department of Health-Forensic Sciences Unit para sa analysis suno sa pulis.
Nagpasalig naman ini nga tinguha-an nila nga masabat ang pamangkot sang bata.
Naga-exist gid man bala si Santa Claus, ina ang bantayan bangud suno kay chief, magahatag siya sang update.
Lalaki nga pareho ang pangalan sa isa ka durugista, tatlo ka beses gid nga naaresto, binulan pa ang tinir sa presuhan
Imagine kun kabuot man sa imo nga klase sang tawo kag wala ka man nagapanghilabot sa kabuhi iban apang gindakop ka gihapon bangud katukayo mo ang isa ka kriminal!?
Natabo ini sa isa ka lalaki nga si Rene Martinez Guttierez, isa ka 46-anyos nga residente sang Colombia, indi lang isa ka bes kundi tatlo gid ka beses!
Sa masobra isa ka dekada, tatlo ka beses gid siya nga gindala sa presuhan bangud nagsala ang mga pulis sa rason nga pareho sila sang pangalan sang isa ka drug dealer sa Peru nga wanted indi lamang sa iya pungsod kundi bisan diin nga bahin sang kalibutan.
Ginpahayag nga ang pinakaulihi nga pagdakop kay Guttierez ang natabo subong gid lamang nga bulan sang nagbalik ini sa Colombia agud kuntani nga bisitahon ang iya nga amay.
Ginpalapitan siya sang Interpol officials sang nag-abot siya sa airport kag gilayon nga gindagdagan sang warrant of arrest.
Sang 2010 suno sa rekord, walo man siya ka adlaw nga nanimuron sa presuhan sang naghapit lang kuntani siya sa police station agud magkuha sang judicial record para sa iya gintukod nga negosyo.
May yara man sang tion nga duha ka bulan siya sa presuhan kadungan sang report nga may kinawatay sa iya ulubrahan.
Suno sa asawa ni Rene, pareho ang pangalan kag ang date of birth sang iya bana sa tawo nga wanted bangud kakuntyaba ini sang isa ka lalaki nga nag-ship sang 20 ka kilo sang cocaine sa Peru sang 2006.
Sa subong, sa masubo nga palad, yara gihapon si Rene sa Los Martires police station kag nagahulat nga patihan sang mga pulis ang mga dokumento nga gin-presentar nga indi siya ang matuod nga kriminal.
Lalaki, nagpeke sang iya kamatayon bangud luyag mahibaluan kun sanday sin-o ang makadto sa iya haya
Sigurado ka man bala kun sin-o nga mga tawo ang nagaulikid sa imo –patay ka man ukon buhi?
Amo man ini ang pamangkot sang isa ka 60-anyos nga lalaki sa Brazil nga sa tuman niya ka curious kun sanday sin-o ayhan ang magakadto kun mapatay siya, nahimo niya nga peke-on ang iya kamatayon!
Ginpahayag nga isa ka ceremonialist ang lalaki nga si Baltazar Lemos.
Isa siya ka master of ceremonies sa lain-lain nga mga event; gani sa tion nga may mga haya, nakakita na siya nga kun kaisa duha lang ang nagakadto, kag kun kaisa naman nagaginutok ang mga tawo.
Amo ini ang nagpukaw sa iya kuryosidad nga mahibaluan kun pila ayhan ang makadto sa haya kun siya na ang yara sa lungon.
Ang natabo… nag-post ini nga nagapahibalo sa iya pamilya kag mga abyan nga napatay na siya, kag may picture pa sang Albert Einstein Hospital sa Sao Paolo.
Bangud gin-anunsyo man kun diin nga chapel ihaya ang bangkay, nagkadto man didto ang iya nga mga kapartidusan kag mga abyan.
Sang didto na, gin-play ang isa ka voice record kun sa diin mismo tingog ni Baltazar ang nagapanugid sang iya nga mga inagyan sa kabuhi.
Nagtodo pa gid ang mga hibi sang mga tawo bangud abi nila, gin-preparar na ini sang lalaki antes pa man siya ginbawian sang kabuhi.
Apang sa kakibot sang tanan, gulpi lang nga nagbukas ang altar doors kag nagsulod si Baltazar!
May iban nga nagwawaw, samtang may iban naman nga daw nakakita sang ghost, kag may yara man nga indi makahulag.
Sunod nga ginpaathag sang lalaki nga curious lang siya kun sanday sin-o ang magakadto sa haya rason nga nahimo niya ini.
Nanginit naman ang mga tawo sa iya rason kag sa attempt sini nga kuhaon ang atensyon sang tanan.
Mas nagdugang pa gid ang bash sa iya sang nahibaluan sang publiko nga may yara siya sang 80-anyos nga iloy nga naka-wheelchair nga amo gid posible ang pinaka-naapektuhan kun nabatian sini ang balita.
Nag-sorry man si Baltazar apang daw kaangay nga mga bungol ang mga tawo sa iya palibot umpisa sang amo nga adlaw.
Korte sa Uganda, ginmanduan ang babayi nga magbayad sa iya ginbayaan nga fiance
ILOILO CITY – Kun magbulaganay, required gid nga may bawi-ay?
Hambal sang iban, ihatag nalang ato tanan sa iya.
May nagahambal man nga dapat nga bawion bangud nga wala ka na gani sang bilin kay ang tanan-tanan ginhatag mo na sa iya pero ginbayaan ka pa niya.
Sa Uganda, nagmandu ang korte sa isa ka babayi nga bayaran ang iya anay fiance sang masobra sa $2,800 ukon masobra sa P150,000 bangud sa pag-cancel sang ila engagement apisar nga gingastuhan sang lalaki ang iya pag-eskwela.
Ini ang kasunod sang pag-akusar sang lalaki sa babayi bangud sang natuga nga “inconvenience kag psychological anguish.”
Ang 64 anyos nga si Richard Tumwiine nga isa ka retired teacher ang nagbayad sang diploma in law ni Fortunate Kyarikunda sang sila ang engaged pa.
Apang, ang bataon nga si Fortunate ang ang nagpahayag nga indi niya mahimo nga magpakasal sa isa ka tigulang nga lalaki.
Bangud nga wala natuman sang babayi ang iya promisa nga magpakasal, entitled ang lalaki sang reimbursement.
Suno sa judge, dapat nga bayaran ni Fortunate sang masobra sa P139,000 ang gingasto sa iya ni Richard sa iya pag-eskwela.
Nagmandu man ang korte nga dapat nga bayaran ni Fortunate ang masobra sa P14,000 bilang general damages sa tagreklamo bangud sa huol kag psychological anguish.
Wala man naka-agi tambong ang babayi sa court proceedings kag wala man nakapasa sang iya paathag.
Suno kay Richard, tubtob san-o nga magapabilin sa iya tagipusuon ang kasakit nga tuga sang pagbiya sa iya ni Fortunate.
Ang desisyon sang korte ang ginpakamalaot naman sang women’s rights activist nga si Miria Matembe bangud nga one-sided ini.
Nagapakita lamang suno sa iya nga ang judicial system ang masami nga nagapabor sa mga lalaki.
Bata nga naghampang sang hide and seek ukon panagu-ay sa Bangladesh kag nagsulod sa container van, natulugan, nakalab-ot sa Malaysia
ILOILO CITY – Ginakabig nga mapalaron ang isa ka bata nga lalaki sa Bangladesh bangud nga naka-survive ini sa sa sulod sang shipping container samtang nga nagahampang sang hide and seek ukon panagu-ay kag nasiraduhan sang sulod sang anum ka adlaw.
Sang damlag lang, samtang nga naga-unload sang containers sa isa ka Bangladeshi vessel ang isa ka staff sa port sang Malaysia, nakibot ini matapos nga nakita ang isa ka bata nga lalaki nga naggwa sa container.
Indi ini maka-intindi sang ila nga lenggwahe gani indi ini makuhaan sang impormasyon.
Ang abi nila, biktima ini sang human trafficking crime organization gani nagtawag sila sang pulis.
Apang sang ulihi, nahibaluan nila nga naghampang ini sang hide and seek upod sa iya mga abyan sa Chittagong, Bangladesh kag nagsulod sa shipping container kag nasiraduhan sang pila ka adlaw sa barko padulong sa Malaysia.
Sa sulod sang anum ka adlaw, wala man nakakaon si Fahim.
Gindala ini sa ospital kag ginaproseso na ang pag-repatriate sa iya balik sa iya pungsod sa Bangladesh.
Bride, nagbata sa adlaw mismo sang iya kasal; Groom, gindayon ang kasal apang mannequin ang gindala sa seremonya
Wala na sang mas espesyal nga adlaw sa duha ka tawo nga nagahigugmaanay kundi ang ila nga kasal.
Diri sila magapanumpa nga indi magbayaay, kag diri nila isugid sa atubang sang mga tawo kun daw ano nila kapalangga ang isa kag isa.
Apang sa isa ka kasal sa Dipaculao, Aurora, tumalagsahon ang natabo bangud sa mismo adlaw sang ila kasal amo man ang pagbata sang misis!
Makit-an nga kumpleto na ang entourage, nahimos na ang venue sang kasal kag bongga ang mga handa.
Apang bangud sa emergency, indi na makatambong ang babayi bangud nga yara ini sa ospital.
Suno sa groom nga si Jericho Sabado, indi man niya gusto nga ikanselar ang kasal bangud daku na ang ila naggasto.
Gani suhestyon sang pastor, tawgan na lang si misis sa ospital ukon indi gani, i-video call na lang samtang padayon ang seremonya.
Ang natabo, mannequin anay ang nagbulos kay misis sa kasal nga syempre, nagasuksok man sang puti nga gown nga tipikal nga ginagamit sa kasal.
Apisar medyo masubo ang groom, okay na ini para sa iya bangud nakabun-ag na si Misis sang isa ka healthy baby.
Duha ka pulis, nagbulig sa pagpabata sa isa ka iloy sa kasagsagan sang Dinagyang Festival
Dalayawon ang duha ka pulis nga wala gid nag-alang-alang sa pagbulig sa isa ka babayi nga naalangan kag nagbata sa JM Basa St., Iloilo City kadungan sang highlight sang Dinagyang Festival.
Ang mga nagbulig nga mga pulis amo sanday PSSg Resurrecion Aliponso, Jr.
sang San Lorenzo Municipal Police Station kag ang iya kaupod nga si PCpl.
Gilayon nga nagbulig ang duha sang nakita ang sitwasyon sang 27-anyos nga iloy nga si Charlane Lobaton, 27, residente sang Zone 3 Brgy.
Natigayon nga nabun-ag ni Charlane ang iya baby girl nga ginpangalanan kay “Dianne Jane”.
American astronaut nga si Buzz Aldrin, nagpakasal sa iya long-time girlfriend sa edad nga 93
Kun pakaslan mo ang tawo nga imo ginahigugma, pat-od nga “out of this world” kag “over the moon” gid ang imo nga mabatyagan!
Pareho sini ang nabatyagan sang former American astronaut nga si Buzz Aldrin nga nagpakasal sa iya long-time girlfriend sa edad nga 93 anyos.
Ginpatigayon ang kasal nanday Aldrin kag sang 63-anyos nga si Dr.
Suno pa sa former US astronaut, tuman sila ka excited nga duha kag daw kasubong lang nga naga-elope nga teenagers ang ila nga nabatyagan.
Si Aldrin amo ang isa sa mga piloto sang legendary nga Apollo 11 spaceflight sang 1969.
Siya ang ikaduha nga tawo nga nakalapak sa bulan, sunod kay Neil Armstrong nga amo ang commander sang amo nga maragtason nga mission.
Sang amo nga tion, nag-set up sanday Armstrong kag Aldrin sang American flag sa bulan, nagdala sang mga bato, kag nag-set up man sang scientific experiments antes nagbalik sa spacecraft kag gin-abi abi bilang mga baganihan sang nag-abot sa earth.
Sa apat ka mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan nga nakatapak sa bulan, siya na lang nagaisahanon nga buhi.
Faur may yara sang PhD sa chemical engineering kag amo ang executive vice president sang kumpaniya ni Aldrin nga Buzz Aldrin Ventures.
Indi ini ang una nga tion nga nagsiling sang “I do” ang nasambit nga astronaut sa atubang sang altar.
Tatlo ka beses na siya nga nagpakasal apang lunsay diborsyo ang gindangatan sang pag-asawahay.
Lalaki nga nadulaan sang laptop, nagwild, gin-arado ang lobby sang hotel gamit ang iya sports car
Makapila gid kita ka beses nga ginahambalan nga kontrolon ang aton kaugalingon kun kita ang maakig bangud posible nga indi man naton maluyagan ang resulta sang aton sarang nga mahimo kun magtahaw na ang aton nga nabatyagan.
Importante ini nga leksyon nga aton tun-an samtang bata pa kita.
Isa ka halimbawa diri amo ang isa ka 28-anyos nga lalaki sa China nga nag-tinir sa isa 4-star hotel sa amo nga pungsod.
Suno sa mga pulis, naka-bais sang amo nga lalaki nga si Chen ang isa ka hotel staff bangud samtang yara siya sa amo nga hotel, nadula ang iya laptop.
Wala gid naghaum ang staff sang sunod nga ginhimo ni Chen.
Ginpasulod sini sa lobby sang hotel ang iya puti nga car kag ginpangbungguan ang kutob sang iya nga malabayan — dala dira ang glass doors, lamesa, kag tanan nga yara sa lobby bangud hungod sini nga ginpakadto-pabalik ang salakyan.
Naglibog naman ang ulo sang iban nga guests kun ano ang natabo kun ngaa nag-wild ang lalaki.
Ginbungguan pa sini ang iban pa gid nga glass doors sang buot na gid man nga maguwa sa hotel, apang nakabunggo sa door frame rason nga nag-flash na ang hazard lights kag nagpundo.
Nakit-an man ang iban nga lalaki nga akig kag ginpanglampusan ang salakyan ni Chen.
Suno sa pulis, wala man sang napilasan sa amo nga insidente, apang syempre, bilang premyo, gin-detain si Chen samtang pending ang imbestigasyon.
Sang ulihi, natukiban nga ginkawat gali ang iya nga laptop kag nakit-an nga yara na sa guwa sang hotel.
Antes sini nga insidente, suno sa isa ka booking website, nakaangkon ang amo nga 4-star hotel sang “very good” reviews halin sa mga guests nga nagtinir didto.
Executive sang isa ka bangko nga nagsakay sa eroplano kag nasobrahan sa pagpahubog, nag-ililihi… ginpahalin sa trabaho, gindakop pa sang pulis
Masami kita gina-remind nga indi gid maglagaw-lagaw ukon mag-drive sang salakyan samtang kita ang hubog.
Ini agud malikawan naton nga maaksidente, makapangdalahig sang iban nga tawo, ukon mapahuy-an ang aton nga kaugalingon samtang yara sa dalan.
Kaangay halimbawa sa sining isa ka Indian executive sa isa ka daku nga American multinational financial services company nga ginpahayag nagpangihi sa isa ka pasahero sa eroplano bangud sa iya tuman nga kahulugbon.
Ginpahayag nga Nobyembre 26, 2022 pa sang natabo ang insidente sang halin ang Indian executive sa New York kag pauli na sa New Delhi.
Ginkilala ang lalaki kay Shankar Mishra, ang former vice president sang Indian operations sang daku nga bangko sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Gin-alegar nga ginbuksan sini ang zipper sang iya nga pants kag nag-ililihi kag sa kadimalason sang isa ka 72 anyos nga pasahero, siya gid ang natup-an.
Nag-reklamo ang tigulang nga babayi, apang wala man maayo nga na-handle sang airline ang reklamo amo man ang polisa sini sa pag-serbe sang alcoholic drinks.
Sa bahin naman sang lalaki, gilayon man ini nga ginpahalin sa trabaho sang nahibaluan sang management ang amo nga insidente.
Nag-lie low pa si Mishra kag nagpalagyo kag gin-switch off pa sini ang iya nga cellphone halin sang amo nga bulan.
Ginpahayag nga nagpabilin ang kontak sini sa iban niya nga abyan, kag sang damlag lang, may credit transaction ini sa Bangalore sa India rason nga na-trace ang iya nga lokasyon kag gilayon nga nadakpan sang mga pulis.
Self-proclaimed doctor sa Pakistan, luyag pa nga dugangan ang 60 ka bilog nga anak
ILOILO CITY – Sa subong nga nagamahal na gid ang mga balaklon, madamo na sang nagahambal nga indi na lang magbata ukon indi na pagdugangan ang bata.
Apang sa Pakistan, isa ka 52 anyos nga doctor ang sang damlag lang, nag-welcome sang iya ika-60 nga anak.
Si Sardar Jan Mohammad Khan Khilji ang may kaugalingon nga clinic sa ila lugar kag may tatlo na ka asawa.
Sang nabun-ag ang iya ika-60 nga anak, ginpahayag ni Sardar nga gusto pa niya nga magpangasawa liwat agud nga madugangan pa ang iya mga anak.
Ang goal gali ni Sardar amo nga maka-angkon sang 100 ka mga anak.
Ang self-proclaimed “doctor” nga nagapadalagan sang unregulated clinic kun sa diin, ginabulong sini ang mga minor ailments kaangay sang sakit sang ulo ang sang una, nagapadayaw gid sang iya manggad kag masarangan niya nga magsagud sang iya bilog nga pamilya.
Apang sining ulihi lang, gin-ako niya nga apektado man siya sang inflation apang committed sa gihapon nga magpadako pa sang iya pamilya.
Kung madumduman ninyo, gindala man naton diri ang istorya sang isa ka mangunguma sa Ghana nga may 102 ka mga kabataan kag 568 ka mga apo.
Ini ang mahimo pa nga malagas ni Sardar bangud nga mas bata ini kun ipa-anggid sa taga-Ghana.
Twin sisters, may separate birthdays — sa magkatuhay man nga tuig!
Kun kapid gani, typically, pareho gid ang birthday.
Apang sa Texas, may yara sang kapid nga baby girls nga sa separado nga tuig nabun-ag!
Una nga ginpaguwa sang iloy nga si Kali Jo Scott ang una nga twin girl nga si Annie Jo sang Disyembre 31,2022 sang 11:55 pm.
Naguwa naman ang second twin nga si Effie Rose sang January 1, 2023, sang 12:01 a.m.
Si Kali Jo ang last baby nga nabun-ag sa Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Denton sang 2022 samtang si Effie Rose naman ang first baby nga nabun-ag sa amo nga ospital sang 2023.
Happy naman nga ginpakigbahin sang mommy nga pareho nga healthy ang baby girls kag lunsay nagabug-at sang 5.5 pounds.
Excited man ang parents bangud dungan sa NewYear’s eve kag New Year’s day ang birthday sang kapid, rason nga extra special ang ila nga holidays sa masunod nga tuig.
Magnobya nga nagpangawat, nagtawag sa 911 agud nga mangayo sang bulig sa paghakwat sang ila kinawatan nga gamit; mga otoridad, nagbulig man
Ini ang komento sang publiko sa natabo nga pagpangawat sa Estados Unidos.
Ang mga kawatan ang kilala gid nga mga maalam apang kaangay sa iban nga butang… indi tanan!
Arestado ang duha ka tawo sa Florida matapos nga ang isa sa ila ang nagtawag sa 911 agud nga magpangayo sang bulig sa paghakwat sang mga gamit nagikan sa isa ka balay kun sa diin sila nagpangawat.
Suno sa Polk County Sheriff’s Office, nagresponde ang mga otoridad sa isa ka balay matapos nga may nagtawag sa emergency hotline apang wala sang may nagahambal.
Sang nag-abot na sila sa amo nga balay, nag-conclude ang mga otoridad nga wala sang tawo apang nakita nila ang isa ka lalaki upod sa iya nobya sa sulod sang balay sang ginsulod na nila ang wala nasiraduhan nga pwertahan.
Ginpahayag pa sang Sherrif’s Office nga ginapangita na nila ang lalaki nga suspect matapos nga na-identify sa isa ka security video sang pagpangawat sa Dollar General store sa Poinciana, Florida kun sa diin, madamo man sang nadula nga mga pagkabutang.
Samtang nga naga-istorya sa mga otoridad, ginpahayag sang babayi nga nagtawag siya sa 911 agud nga mabuligan sila sa pagdala sang mga gamit nagikan sa balay nga ila ginkawatan.
Indi lang ina, kinahanglan pa nila sang madul-ong sa ila sa airport agud nga mag-spend sang ila weekend sa New York.
Ginbuligan man sila sang mga otoridad kag gindul-ong pa.
Suno pa sa otoridad, welcome gid sila sa sheriff’s office kag mas manami kuno didto kun ikumpara sa New York.
Ang magnobya ang sa karon, ginpasakaan na sang kaso.
Mga soltero sa India, nag-protesta sa gobyerno bangud kulang ang mga single nga mga babayi sa ila lugar
Nagapanginit ka man bala kun kadugay na sa imo pagpangita sang tawo nga para sa imo, pero daw indi mo gid makita kag feeling mo kulang sila sa kalibutan?
May mga tawo gid nga nainit bangud 8 billion na ang populasyon sa kalibutan suno sa United Nations pero single sila gihapon.
Sa India, masobra 50 ka mga kalalakihan ang nagprotesta sa ila nga lokal nga gobyerno bangud ginapahayag nga kulang ang mga single nga mga kababaihan sa ila nga lugar.
Sa kagustuhan nga makapangita na sang pangasaw-on, naghimo sang committee ang 50 single nga mga lalaki kag gintawag ini nga ‘Bridegroom Morcha.’
May gin-organisar nga rally ang 50 ka mga soltero sa atubang sang ila nga local government.
Agud masapakan ang ila nga kawsa, nagsuksok pa sila sang magarbo nga traditional wedding attire kag nagsakay sa puti nga mga kabayo.
May dala man sila nga mga musikero para may magpatokar sang traditional wedding music.
Dala sang mga nagprotesta ang petisyon nga pangitaan sila sang gobyerno sang ila mapangasawa.
Ini bangud sa data sang National Family Health Survey, ang Maharashtra sa amo nga pungsod ang may yara lamang sang 920 ka mga babayi sa kada 1,000 ka lalaki.
Sa subong, ginahulat pa sang grupo nga Bridegroom Morcha ang sabat sang Maharastra local government sa ila nga petisyon.##
67 anyos nga lalaki nga may 12 ka asawa kag masobra 100 ka kabataan, nagdesisyon na gid man nga untaton na ang pagpadako pa sang pamilya
ILOILO CITY – Matapos ang masobra 50 ka tuig, nagaplano ang isa ka lalaki sa Uganda nga untaton na gid man ang pagpadamo sang iya pamilya.
Ang 67 nga si Mzee Musa Hasahya ang may yara sang 12 ka mga asawa, 102 ka kabataan kag 568 ka mga apo.
16 anyos pa lamang si Hasahya sang nagpangasawa ini tubtob nga naglab-ot sa 12 ang iya asawa.
Ang rason niya kun ngaa nga madamo ang iya asawa amo nga bangud duha lamang sila sang iya utod gani nakulbaan ini nga basi kun mapanas lang ang ila nga clan.
Ang subang nga anak ni Hasahya ang mas tigulang sa iya pinakabata nga asawa sang 21 ka tuig.
Suno sa asawa, apisar nga 67 anyos na si Hasahya, ang energy daw pang-25 anyos lang.
Bangud sang tuman na ka dako nga gasto, ginbaya-an ini sang anum niya nga asawa.
Ang negosyo niya ang amat-amat naman nga nagakaputo.
Gani, nagdesisyon si Hasahya nga pagamiton na sang contraceptives ang nabilin niya nga anum ka mga asawa agud nga indi na magdala pa.
Mag-asawa nga pareho ang birthday, nakaangkon sang anak sa ila mismo kaadlawan
Ka-sweet panumdumon kag daw extra-special gid kun may couple ka nga makilala nga pareho ang birthday.
Apang ano abi kun ang ila nga anak pareho pa gid sa ila ang birthday?
Posible ini bangud natabo ini sa married couple didto sa Alabama, USA.
Excited ang Huntsville Hospital for Women and Children sa Alabama sa pag-share nga sa amo nga pasilidad, nagbun-ag ang isa ka iloy sang baby girl sa petsa nga birthday man niya kag sang iya nga bana.
Ang mag-asawa amo sanday Cassidy kag Dylan Scott.
Disyembre 18 sang ginbun-ag ni Cassidy ang ila beautiful baby girl nga ginpangalanan kay Lennon.
Suno sa ospital, ini nga phenomenon ang makabig nga ‘one in 133,000 chances!’ gani espesyal gid ang case sang amo nga mag-asawa.
Sigurado nga merry gid ang Disyembre sang tatlo bangud magluwas nga palareho ang ila nga birthday, Christmas season ini nga bulan kag ini ang most wonderful time of the year!
Kay Dylan, Cassidy, kag kay Baby Lennon, happy awesome birthday!!!
Italian police, naggamit sang Lamborghini supercar sa pag-transport sang kidneys para sa mga nagakinahanglan nga pasyente
Naggamit ang mga pulis sa Italya sang specially adapted Lamborghini supercar agud madul-ong ang duha ka kidneys sa mga nagakinahanglan nga pasyente sa duha ka separado nga ospital.
Ginsapubliko sang otoridad ang picture sang medical cool box sa purpose-built compartment sa atubang sang Lamborghini Huracán.
Gin-deliver ang organs halin sa Padua sa norteast sang Italy padulong sa ospital sa Modena kag sa Rome.
Ang gingamit nga Lamborghini Huracan ang gin-regalo lang sang luxury carmaker sa pulis sang 2017.
Assigned ini sa Bologna, northern Italy, para sa normal police operations kag sa urgent nga transport sang dugo kag organs.
May yara man sang isa pa ka Huracan nga gina-operate sang highway patrol sa Rome, samtang ang 2009 Lamborghini Gallardo naman nga gingamit man anay sang pulis ang yara na subong sa isa ka museum.
Lalaki nga gina-swelduhan lamang agud magkaon kag magbasa sang newspaper, nagdangop sa korte
Kun kadamo gani sang ulubrahon sa opisina, wala-tuo ang reklamo nga imo mabatian.
Apang may tawo ka bala nga nabatian nga nagreklamo bangud ginabayaran lang pero wala man sang ulubrahon?
Isa ka financial manager nga nagaobra sa national railway network sang Ireland ang nagreklamo bangud ginabayaran lang siya kuno sang ginabanta $130,000 ukon yara sa P7.2 million kada tuig agud lang nga magkaon sang iya panyaga kag magbasa lang sang pahayagan bilog nga adlaw!
Kun para sa iban, matawhay ini nga obra… para naman sa tagreklamo nga si Dermot Alastair Mills, isa ini ka sahi sang diskriminasyon sa trabaho nga indi na niya matolerar.
Ginpahayag sini nga sang nangin whistleblower siya sang accounting sang amo nga kumpaniya sang 2014, ginkakasan siya sang iya ila nga mga ulubrahon tubtub nga ang nabilin na lamang nga trabaho amo ang pagkaon kag ang pagbasa sang newspaper.
Apisar sini, nagaabot ang regular paycheck kada bulan kag nagaabot gid ang iya nga sweldo.
Kun kaisa suno kay Dermot, naga-check man sya sang emails apang wala man sang emails nga kaangot sa work, wala man sang messages, wala sang communications, kag wala man siya sang communication mangin sa iya nga mga katrabaho.
Gindangop ni Dermot ini nga reklamo sa Workplace Relations Commission sang Ireland.
Gin-athag sini nga ginabayaran lang siya agud wala man sang himuon kag nagakadalahig diri ang iya nga skills.
Feeling ni Dermot, isolated siya kag wala gina-lakip sa company meetings kag training opportunities.
Sa Enero sa masunod nga tuig natalana ang masunod nga hearing sang amo nga kaso.
Meet ‘Little Nugget’, ang baby nga nabun-ag sang iya Mommy sa sulod sang restroom sang isa ka fast food restaurant
Ginhatagan sang hayo nga “Little Nugget” ang isa ka baby girl matapos nga ginbun-ag ini sang iya iloy sa bathroom sang isa ka fast food restaurant.
Suno sa panugiron sang iloy nga si Alandria Worthy nga taga-Atlanta, Georgia, nabatyagan niya nga nagasakit na ang iya nga tiyan rason nga nagkadto na sila sang iya nga fianc sa ospital sang aga sang amo nga adlaw.
Apang nagpundo anay sila sa isa ka popular nga fast food restaurant, bangud maggamit kuntani sang comfort room si Alandria.
Apang sang ara na sa comfort room, gulpi lang kuno nga naglupok ang iya panubigon.
Nagsinggit si Alandria kag madasig man nga nag-responde ang manager nga si Tunisia Woodward.
Nakit-an na sini si Alandria nga nagakaya-kaya sa toilet floor, kag gets na dayon sini kun ano ang masunod nga matabo.
Ang natabo… mismo ang manager ang nagpabata kay Alandria sa bulig sang duha ka ka workers samtang naga-assist man ang fiance.
Ginapahayag tatlo lang ka push, kag 15 ka minutos lang ang kadugayon, kag naguwa na ang cutie baby girl nga si Nandi Ariyah Moremi Phillips nga automatic nga ginhatagan sang nickname nga Nugget.
Nagapati naman ang first-time mom kag ang iya fiance nga divine intervention ang nagtulod sa ila nga maghapit anay sa fast food restaurant agud nga mabuligan sila sang tatlo ka mga babayi nga naga-trabaho sa amo nga kalan-an.
Nag-award naman ang franchise owner sang tag-$250 ukon malapit tag-P15,000 nga gift cards sa mga empleyado bangud sa maayo nga hinimuan sang amo nga adlaw.
Duha ka babayi nga patas ang boto sang nagpadalagan sa pagka-councilor sa Michigan, ginpagabot na lang sang papel sa bowl agud matumod ang winner
Paano ma-resolba kun halimbawa nag-tie ang duha ka kandidato sa eleksyon?
Sa Rogers City sa Michigan sa Estados Unidos, wala na sang madamo nga gamo ang duha ka babayi nga pareho nga nakakuha sang 616 nga boto sang nagpadalagan bilang councilor.
Gindesisyunan nga magabot sila sang papel nga ginbutang sa bowl.
Naswertehan nga nagabot ni Timeen Adair ang papel nga may sulat nga “elected.”
Nakabutang naman ang “not elected” sa papel nga nagabot sang iya kasumpong nga si Brittany VanderWall.
No hard feelings… nagkup-anay ang duha matapos ang draw.
Antes pa man naggabot ang papel, nagpahayag na si VanderWall nga bisan sin-o man sa ila ang maswertehan, daog sa gihapon ang ila syudad kag pareho man nga satisfied sa ila nga duha bangud pareho ang numero sang boto nga ila nakuha.
Ginpanginbulahan sini si Adair kag nagpahayag nga makit-anay lang ugaling sila sa masunod nga eleksyon.
Pulitiko nga napatay na sang nagligad nga bulan, na-reelect pa sa Pennsylvania, USA
Sa Pennsylvania sa Estados Unidos, sa nagapadayon subong nga midterm elections, daog ang isa ka state lawmaker sa eleksyon apisar nga napatay na ini sang nagligad nga bulan bangud sa cancer.
Sa preliminary results, indi lang siya daog, kundi landslide nga sahi sang pagdaog.
Ang ginatumod nga politician amo si Tony DeLuca, isa ka Democrat nga state lawmaker sang Pittsburgh suburb sa House, nga napatay bangud sang lymphoma sang October 9 sa edad nga 85.
Sang amo nga tion, ulihi na agud nga makakas pa ang iya nga pangalan sa balota bangud nagahilapit na ang nationwide US legislative elections.
Napabilin ni Deluca ang iya nga pwesto bangud sa 86 percent sang votes nga nakuha out of 98 percent sang ballots nga naisip na.
Bangud sini, kinahanglan ang espesyal nga eleksyon agud madesisyunan kun sin-o ang magapungko sa pwesto.
Nagpahayag man ang Pennsylvania Democratic Party nga bisan nasubuan ang partido nga wala na si Representative Tony DeLuca, proud man sila sa gihapon sa desisyon sang mga botante kag sa pagpili sa Democratic values paagi sa pag-eleher liwat kay De Luca sa pwesto.
World’s tallest woman nga si Rumeysa Gelgi, first time nga nakasakay sa eroplano
Para sa iban nga tawo, indi man big deal ang pagsakay sa eroplano magluwas lang abi kun first time mo ini.
Apang lain ang eksperyensya ilabi na kun ikaw ang ginabansagan pinakamataas nga babayi sa bilog nga kalibutan!
Ang naga-uyat sini nga rekord amo ang 25-anyos nga Turkish woman nga si Rumeysa Gelgi nga nagataas sang 7 feet kag 0.7 inches.
Ini ang una nga bes nga nakasakay si Ms.
13 ka oras ini nga flight halin sa Istanbul, Turkey padulong sa San Francisco, United States.
Agud masiguro nga matawhay ang flight para kay Ms.
Gelgi, temporaryo nga gin-kuha sang airline ang anum ka economy seats kag gin-convert sa isa ka special stretcher.
Gelgi, nangin matawhay man ang iya nga flight kag ginpasalamatan sini ang crew sang eroplano.
Suno sa Guinnes World Record, si Miss Gelgi man ang nagauyat sang rekord nga may longest finger sa living person, longest hands, kag longest back.
Ang daw indi mapatihan nga kataason ni Ms.
Gelgi ang tuga sang kondisyon nga ginatawag nga Weaver syndrome.
Ini nga rare genetic condition ang rason sang accelerated growth kag talalupangdon nga advanced bone age.
Bangud sini ugaling, limitado man ang hulag sang joints kag mabudlay man ang paglakat kag mangin ang pagginhawa kag ang pagtulon.
Bangud sa iya nga kondisyon, nagagamit si Ms.
Gelgi sang wheelchair ukon walker agud nga makalibot-libot kag makabyahe.
Gelgi sa technology sector kag magatinir ini sa US sa sulod sang anum ka bulan para makakita sang dugang nga opportunities sa iya nga karera.
Lalaki sa China nga nagdaog sang P1.76-b sa lotto, wala nanugid sa kahadlok nga magtinamad kag maghinambog na ang iya pamilya
Nakaagi ka man damgo nga nagdaog ka sa lotto?
Ukon basi may kilala nga nakadaog na sa lotto?
Sa China, lab-ot sa langit ang kalipay sang isa ka lalaki matapos nakadaog sang malapit sa 220 million yuan ukon P1.76 billion sa lottery.
Ang lalaki amo si alias “Li” nga nagbakal sang 40 lottery tickets balor 80 yuan ukon P640 kada isa sa autonomous region of Guangxi Zhuang.
Palareho lang ang pito ka numero sa kada ticket.
Suno sa report sang South China Morning Post, nag-hit ang tanan nga pito ka numero.
Ginpahayag nga tinuig na nga ginatayaan ni Li ini nga mga numero ukon ginatawag na ini nga iya “alaga”.
Ini amo ang 2, 15, 19, 26, 27, 29, kag 2.
Bangud sini, nagdangat sa 5.48 million yuan per ticket ang daog ni Li ukon 220 million yuan.
Sang na-hit na ang jackpot sang Oktubre 21, indi na makatulog si Li kag nagsakay ini sa tren padulong sa Nanning pagkaaga mismo.
Nagtinir siya sa hotel sang weekend bangud nahadlok siya nga madula ang iya nga tickets.
Sunod siya nga nagpadulong sa Guangxi Welfare Lottery Distribution Center sa amo nga syudad sang Oktubre 24 agud kuhaon ang iya nadag-an nga kuwarta.
Sang ginhatag na ang cheke, suksok sini ang isa ka cartoon costume nga amo ang popular nga paagi sa China agud nga ma-proteksyunan ang identity sang mga nagadaog sa lottery.
Apisar tuman ang excitement ni Li bangud sa iya nga swerte, nag-desisyon siya nga indi ini pag-isugid bisan kay sin-o.
Wala niya gani ini ginsugid pati sa iya nga pamilya!
Paathag sini, nagakabalaka siya nga basi kun isugid niya nga nakadaog siya sa lotto, magtinamad na ang iya asawa kag anak, ukon basi indi na magtuon sa eskwelahan.
Apang sa pagsulundan, dapat nga mangin joint asset ni Li kag sang iya nga asawa ang amo nga kuwarta.
May abogado man nga nagpahayag nga posible malapas ni Li ang local marriage law kun lapason sini ang kinamatarong sang iya asawa nga makahibalo tuhoy sa amo nga impormasyon.
Isa lang ang sigurado subong: dal-on ni Li pauli ang 171 million yuan ukon P1.37 billion bangud ginbuhinan pa ini sang buwis kag nag-donate man siya sang 5 million yuan ukon P40 million sa charity.
Sang ginpamangkot kun ano ang iya nga plano sa kuwarta, suno kay Li, planuhan pa niya ini sang maayo.
Jeffrey Dahmer-inspired pizza, agaw-atensyon subong sa isa ka restaurant
Sigurado nga lain-lain naman nga mga pakulo ang ginahanda, pareho man sa pagkaon nga ginabantayan gid sang mga bata kag tigulang kada tuig.
Halimbawa, sa Texas, isa ka pizzeria ang ginapakamalaot subong sang publiko bangud sang paghimo sang pizza nga inspired sa serial killer nga si Jeffrey Dahmer.
Si Dahmer amo ang serial killer nga nagpatay sa 17 ka mga lalaki sang 1978 tubtub sang 1991 sa Milwaukee.
Nakaako pa ini nga ginkaon niya ang iban nga parte sang lawas sang iya mga biktima.
Ginakilala man siya bilang Milwaukee Monster kag Milwaukee Cannibal.
Na-preso siya kag napatay sang 1994 matapos nga ginkastigo sang isa man ka preso sa Portage, Wisconsin.
Bangud Halloween season, nag-desisyon ang isa ka pizza restaurant sa northwest Texas nga i-butang bilang isa ka store display ang pizza nga ginatawag “Jeffrey Dahmer Special”.
Lakip sa features sini amo ang prop pizza crust nga covered sang peke nga dugo kag iban pa nga parte sang lawas sang tawo kaangay sang eyeball, utod nga tudlo sang tawo, kag ramen noodles nga amo ang naga-represent sang intestines.
Kun ang restaurant workers ang pahambalon, ginhimo lang ini in line sa “spooky season”, apang lain naman ang reaksyon sang mga tawo.
Para sa iban nga kustomer, insulto ini sa mga pamilya sang nabiktima ni Dahmer.
Ginlaragway man ini sang iban nga disgusting kag indi kaladlawan.
Apisar sang negatibo nga feedback, desidido ang establisyemento nga taguon lamang ini sa ila nga storage room kun matapos na ang Halloween.
May yara man sang series nga ginhimo nga nagapakita sang killing spree ni Dahmer; apisar nangin popular ini sa publiko, may negatibo man ini nga reviews bangud pila sa mga pamilya sang biktima ni Dahmer ang nagsiling nga wala man sila ginkonsulta antes ginpaguwa ang amo nga series.
Amerikano nga nagpangsakit sa mga tawo sa New York, ginsampolan sang Pinoy martial arts expert
Sa Estados Unidos, wala naka-saler sa isa ka Pinoy martial arts expert ang isa ka Amerikano nga nagapinagusto lang sa pagpang-kastigo sa mga tawo nga iya makit-an sa New York City.
Ginapahayag nga nakapangsakit na ang lalaki nga si Samuel Frazier sa anum ka mga tawo antes naagyan kag nasampolan ni Ro Malabanan, isa ka Filipino-American jiu-jitsu black belter.
Suno kay Malabanan, nakit-an mismo niya nga gulpi lang nga nagtuhaw si Samuel kag gulpi lang nga nanumbag sa lalaki sa amo nga lugar.
Bilang black-belter sa jiu jitsu, ginpahayag ni Malabanan nga nagtukar gid ang iya nga instinct bilang martial artist rason nga wala na ini nangduha-duha kag ginpalapitan ang lalaki.
Gin-atake siya ni Malabanan sa iya nga likod.
Nagtinguha pa nga magbato ang lalaki apang gingamit ni Malabanan ang seatbelt position kag ginduot ang lalaki sa semento.
Gin-check man ni Malabanan kun may dala nga armas ukon patalom ang lalaki kag ginpadayon ang pagduot sini sa semento tubtub nga makaabot ang pulis.
Isa ka mixed-martial arts practitioner si Malabanan nga nagatudlo man sang boxing.
Ginbun-ag siya sa Pilipinas apang nagdaku sa Estados Unidos.
Ginpahayag man sini nga wala niya ginatan-aw ang iya kaugalingon bilang baganihan bangud ginhimo lang niya ang iya trabaho bilang isa ka New Yorker.
Nahibaluan man sang ulihi nga ang suspek ang may yara na nga daan sang kaso nga unprovoked assault.
Heatwave: French farms, gina-unayan sang dalagku nga bentilador agud indi mapa-angan ang mga baka
Bilog nga kalibutan ang nakahibalo kun daw ano kainit subong ang gina-suprer sang mga tawo sa pila ka mga pungsod sa Europa bangud sa heatwave.
Sa France, indi lang tawo ang naga-suprer sang tuman nga kapaang kundi pati ang mga baka sa mga kaumhan.
Halimbawa, nagsaka sa 34 degrees Celsius (93 Fahrenheit) ang temperatura sa uma nanday Nicolas Joannon sa eastern city of Lyon rason nga haluson paguwaon ang mga baka agud nga makalagaw-lagaw man kuntani kag makaharab.
Bangud sini, may gin-install nga duha ka dalagku nga bentilador — 4.5 meters (ukon halos 15 feet) ini in diameter kag ginbutang sa sulod sang barn.
Bangud sini maka-relax na ang mga baka — udto man ukon hapon.
Paathag ni Joannon, kun magsaka gani ang temperatura, nagaka-heat stress ang mga sapat rason nga nagagamay man ang ila nga kaon kag gamay man ang gatas nga ila ma-produce.
Apang kun maayo ang kondisyon suno kay Joannon, nagakabatak man ang ila nga production level kag nagapaguwa sang quality milk para sa ila nga consumers.
Automatic ang fan blades nga gin-install sa barn — kun nagainit, mas nagadasig ang libot sini.
Daku gid ini nga bulig suno kay Joannon bangud sensitive ang dairy cows sa temperatura.
Halin 22C (71F) kag 50 percent humidity, nagatipon na ang init sa lawas kag nagakabuhinan ang milk production.
Maka-produce ang baka sang 28 to 38 liters sang milk kada adlaw apang kun ma-stress bangud sa init, posible ini nga mabuhinan sang tag-duha ka litro.
Elepante nga nagpatay sang isa ka babayi sa India, nagbalik agud atakehon liwat ang bangkay sang biktima
Patay ang isa ka babayi sa India matapos nga gin-atake sang grupo sang mga elepante, apang wala diri nagtapos ang istorya, bangud sa isa ka indi kinaandan nga hitabo, nagbalik ang amo nga grupo sang mga sapat agud atakehon liwat ang bangkay sang biktima.
Sang adlaw nga natabo ang insidente, tuyo kuntani sang 68-anyos nga si Maya Murmu nga magkuha sang tubig sa kaiping nga lugar sa Mayurbhanj district sang Odisha, India.
Sa amo nga tion, gulpi nga nagtuhaw ang grupo sang mga elepante.
Nagtinguha pa ang babayi nga magpalagyo, apang isa ka elepante ang nag-atake sa iya nga nangin rason sang iya patal nga mga pilas.
Wala na natabangan si Murmu apisar nga gindala pa siya sa ospital.
Sunod nga ginhimos ang bangkay sang babayi.
Samtang nga gina-preparar ini para sa cremation,nakibot ang mga residente sang gulpi lang nga nagpakita liwat ang amo nga mga sapat halin sa kagulangan.
Sa kakulba sang mga tawo, mansig sila nagpalalagyo sa amo nga lugar kag ginbayaan ang bangkay.
Ang natabo, suno sa report, ginpalapitan sang isa ka elepante ang bangkay kag ginhaboy paibabaw, samtang ang iban niya nga mga upod ang naghalit sa mga balay sang biktima amo man sang iya nga mga kaingod.
Wala na sang iban pa nga residente nga gin-report nga nahalitan.
Sa separado nga interview kay Duncan McNair abogado kag founder sang conservation charity nga Save The Asian Elephants ginpahanumdom sini sa publiko nga apisar mabuot nga sahi sang sapat ang mga elepante, delikado sila kag posible gid nga mangpatay ‘ilabi na kun gina-garit garit ukon ginaabusuhan.’
Para kayMcNair, posible nga maangot sa “extraordinary cognitive abilities” sang mga elepante ang natabo sa ikaduha nga bes nila nga pagpang-atake.
Misteryo subong para sa publiko ‘kun ano ang nahimo sang babayi’ nga posible rason sang ‘pagtimalos’ sang amo nga mga sapat.
Ginpadayon naman sang mga residente ang pagpalubong sa babayi pagkasunod nga adlaw.
Sa testimoniya sang mga nagapuyo sa lugar, ginsaad nga ini ang una nga bes nga nakit-an nga nangin bayolente ang grupo sang mga elepante.
Ginpahayag naman ni Rabi Narayan Mohanty, assistant conservator of forests, nga gina-proseso na subong ang paghatag sang kompensasyon sa pamilya sang napatay nga babayi.
Identical twins, dungan man nga nagbun-ag sa isa ka ospital sa California
Pampa-good vibes anay sa inyo nga adlaw!
Daw indi mahubsan sang similarities ini nga identical twins didto sa California.
Ini matapos dungan man sila nga nagbun-ag sa ila baby boys didto sa Kaiser Permanente hospital sa Anaheim.
Ang ginatumod nga kapid amo sanday Jill Justiniani kag Erin Cheplak.
Ang ila naman anak ang ginpangalanan nga sanday Oliver kag Silas.Ang ila ginbun-ag nga baby boys ang pareho man nga naga-measure sang 20 inches long.
Suno sa kapid, naka-schedule kuntani si Jill para sa C-section sang Mayo 5, apang sang amo nga tion, naglupok man ang panubigon ni Erin apisar nga 10 days pa kuntani antes ang iya nga due date.
Gin-share man sang mag-utod nga very special nga dungan sila nga nagbusong bangud ginasuportahan nila ang isa kag isa kag pareho sila sang ginaagyan nga proseso.
Magpamilya sa Ohio nga nagpaupod sang ila anum ka tuig nga bata sa masobra walo ka oras nga marathon, nabutang sa kritisismo sa publiko
ILOILO CITY – Sang bata pa kita, mahilig gid kita magdalagan.
Sang elementary kita, halos naga-require sang pagdalagan ang aton masami nga ginahampang.
Sa Ohio, isa ka anum ka tuig nga bata ang nagpasakop sa 26.2-mile running marathon upod sa iya ginikanan nga nag-ani sang madamo nga komento.
Ang mag-asawa nga Youtuber nga sanday Kami kag Ben Crawford ang nag-post sang video sa ila social media account nga nagpasakop sila sa Flying Pig marathon upod ang ila anum ka tuig nga bata.
Ang dalaganon nila ang naglawig sang walo ka oras kag 35 ka minutos kag ginkabig sang mga netizens nga isa ka torture para sa bata.
Nagpanugyan man ang mga medical experts nga tuman ka delikado para sa bata ang ginhimo sang pamilya bangud nga indi pa fully developed ang lawas sang bata.
Apisar sang mga pagpakamalaot, gin-insister sang mag-asawa nga ginpasugtan lamang nila nga magpasakop ang bata bangud nagapakitluoy ini nga mag-upod sa ila nga gilayon man nga ginkontra sang mga nag-upod sa marathon.
Suno sa iban, nagahibi na ang bata kag nagapakitluoy nga mag-untat apang ginapasalig sang ginikanan nga baklan sang potato chips ang bata sa tion nga matapos niya ang marathon.
Sa pihak sini, padayon man ang pagpakigbato sang mag-asawa nga wala sila sang kapaltahan sang pagpa-upod nila sang ila nga anak.
Eskwelahan sa Japan, may P1.4 million nga water bill matapos ginhungod sang isa ka manunudlo nga ginpatubod ang tubig sa pila ka bulan agud malikawan ang Covid-19 infection
Pahanumdom sa mga nagapanag-iya sang swimming pool: ‘Siguraduha gid nga indi sige-sige ang pagtubod sang tubig sa inyo nga pool!’
Ini ang leksyon nga natun-an sa isa ka eskwelahan sa Japan matapos nga nagdangat sa $27,000 ukon P1.4 million ang balayran sini para sa tubig matapos hungod nga ginbilin sang isa ka manunudlo nga bukas ang pump sang tubig sa swimming pool sa sulod sang pila ka bulan.
Ginrason sang wala ginhingadlan nga manunudlo nga maayo ang fresh water sa swimming pool kontra sa COVID-19.
Ini ang iya ginpanumdom rason nga ginpabay-an nga nagatubod lang ang tubig halin sa bulan sang Hunyo tubtub sa Septyembre.
Suno kay local education board official Akira Kojiri, may chlorine kag filtering machines nga ginagamit agud nga matinluan ang tubig sa swimming pool, apang posible suno sa iya nga ginpanumdom sang manunudlo nga ang pagpatubod lang sang bag-o nga tubig amo ang nagaisahanon nga paagi agud nga mapunggan ang Covid.
Pila man ka staff sa eskwelahan ang nakakita nga nagatubod ang tubig sa pool kag ginapatay man nila ang pump, apang natukiban sang ulihi nga nagamato-mato gid ang manunudlo agud nga buksan ang pump.
Bangud sini, naglab-ot sa 4,000 tonelada sang sobra nga tubig ang nagamit sa pool sa sulod sang duha ka bulan.
Gina-engganyo sang mga otoridad sa Yokosuka, Kanagawa prefecture nga bayaran sang manunudlo kag duha ka supervisors ang katunga sang 3.5 million yen ($27,000) nga water bill.
Nagpangayo man sang pasaylo ang awtoridad sa Yokosuka bangud sa natuga sini nga financial damage sa syudad.
Lolo sa Brazil, 84 anyos nga nag-trabaho sa isa lang ka kumpaniya
Daw ano ikaw ka-loyal sa imo nga trabaho?
Madaog mo ayhan ang rekord sang isa ka Lolo nga masobra walo ka dekada nga nagtrabaho sa isa lang ka kumpaniya?
Ini nga Lolo amo si Walter Orthmann, 100, residente sang Brusque, Brazil kag sang damlag lang nakasulod sa Guinness World Record bangud napamatud-an nga siya ang pinakamalawig nga nagtrabaho sa isa lang ka kumpaniya.
Nag-umpisa si Orthmann sa pag-trabaho sa factory floor sang isa ka company nga kilala subong nga RenauxView — kumpaniya nga nagahimo sang fabrics.
Sunod diri, nasaylo si Orthmann sa administration kag nangin sales manager.
Sekreto sini amo ang masami nga pag-stretch kag pag-maintain sa iya nga diet.
Pahayag sini, ginalikawan niya ang mga maasin kag matam-is nga mga pagkaon kag ang tanan nga makapalain sa iya nga intestines.
Bangud sa iya extraordinary accomplishment, yari ang simple nga panugyan si Orthmann sa mga tawo nga nagahandum man sang maayo kag fulfilling nga professional life: Una, ‘do what you love’, kag ikaduha, likawi ang junk food.
Lolo, 90 ka beses nga natublukan sang COVID-19 vaccine
ILOILO CITY- Sang nagligad nga mga binulan, nabatian ninyo diri sa balita espesyal nga may isa ka 83-year-old nga lalaki nga nakabaton sang 11 vaccine doses, kag may isa man nga natublukan sang five doses sang vacine sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Pamatii ini subong kay mas makibot ka kag basi magmurarat ang imo mata.
May isa ka 61-anyos nga lalaki sa Germany nga gin-report nga 90 gid ya ka doses sang Covid-19 vaccine ang gin-inject sa iya.
Suno sa otoridad, ginhimo niya ini bilang negosyo agud makabaligya sang vaccination certificates sa mga tawp nga indi luyag magpabakuna.
Ang lalaki nga gikan sa eastern German city sang Magdeburg,apang wala ginpangalanan ang gin-alegar nga nakabaton sang 90 shots sang Covid-19 vaccine sa pila ka vaccination centers sa eastern state sang Saxony sa sulod sang pila ka bulan antes madakpan ini sang damlag lang.
Suno sa otoridad, naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga ang tigulang nagapatublok sang bakuna sang halos tatlo ka beses kada adlaw.
Matapos madakpan ang iya modus,wala man ini ginpreso apang ginaimbestigagan bangud sa unauthorized issuance sang vaccination cards kag document forgery.
Mag-asawa sa Japan, pila ka beses nga nag-divorce kag nagpakasal bangud lang sa ila apelyido
ILOILO CITY- Sa Pilipinas, kun kaslon kamo,wala sang choice ang babaye kundi gamiton ang apelyido sang lalaki apang may iban man nga babaye nga ginagamit sa gihapon ang ila apelyido.
Sa Japan, lain ang ila layi bangud ginasiling nga kinahanglan nga magsugtanay ang mag-asawa sa apelyido nga ila gamiton matapos ang ila kasal.
Apang paano kun ang mag-asawa indi makadesisyon kun kay sin-o nga family name ang gamiton pagkatapos sang ila kasal?
Sa Hachioji city sa Tokyo, ang ginhimo sang mag-asawa nga may kasubong nga problema amo nga magpakasal sila kada tatlo ka bulan.
Sang 2016, sila ang nagpakasal kag gin-gamit nila ang apelyido sang lalaki sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig.
Sang 2019, sila ang nag- divorce kag nagpakasal liwat kag gin-gamit naman nila ang apelyido sang asawa.
Sa palaabuton nga Hulyo subong nga tuig, sila ang natalana naman nga mag-divorce kag magpakasal agud magamit naman nila ang apelyido sang lalaki.
Judge sa sweden nga nagtuyo sa pagpangawat sang ham, meatballs, sausages, kag cheese samtang yara sa grocery store, ginmultahan sang kapin P300-K
Ginmultahan ang isa ka judge sa Sweden bangud sa ginapahayag tuyo nga pagpangawat sang Christmas ham kag meatballs.
Suno sa prosecutor sa amo nga kaso, nadakpan sang staff sang grocery store sa central Stockholm ang 67-anyos nga Supreme Court justice isa ka semana antes ang Paskuwa.
Suno kay chief public prosecutor Per Nichols, ginpabayad ang amo nga judge bangud sa krimen nga petty theft ukon shoplifting.
Sang Pebrero, nag-resign na ini sa iya nga posisyon sang naglapta ang reports nga ginaimbestigaran siya.
Duha ka dekada man ini nga nagatrabaho bilang judge.
Sandig sa reports, antes ang Christmas, samtang yara sa grocery store, gintago sini ang Christmas ham, meatballs, sausages kag cheese sa bag paagi sa pagtabon sang isa pa ka bag.
Gin-ako sini ang facts sa amo nga kaso apang ginpanginwala ang intensyon nga magpangawat sang groceries.
Nagdangat sa 50,000 Swedish kronor ukon P276,400 ang gindagdag nga multa.
Lalaki, ginpakamalaot kag gin-aresto bangud sa iya koleksyon nga 500 ka bisekleta
ILOILO CITY- Wala sang malain kun mahilig ka mangolekta sang mga bagay.
Apang didto sa Oxfordshire, England, gin-aresto ang isa ka 54 anyos nga lalaki bangud sa iya koleksyon.
Ang iya koleksyon- bisikleta; ang kadamuon- masobra 500.
Apang ini tanan gali ang lunsay kinawatan.
Wala man gin-ako sang lalaki kun paano niya nakolekta ang 500 ka mga bisikleta apang padayon ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad tuhoy diri.
Pet owners nga wala ginalagaw ang ila hinuptanan adlaw-adlaw, ginamultahan sa Italya
ILOILO CITY- Sa mga animal lovers, indi bala gusto gid naton nga dal-on pirmi ang aton ido kun maglagaw kita?
Pero kun indi mo sila malagaw,okay man lang indi bala?
Apang may isa ka lugar nga may yara sila sang layi nga ginamultahan ang mga pet-owners kun indi nila pag-ilagaw ang ila ido adlaw-adlaw.
Didto ini sa Roma sa Italya kun sa diin multahan ang pet owner sang $625 ukon masobra sa P30,000 kun indi niya pag-adlaw-adlawon ang paglagaw sa iya sapat nga hinuptanan.
Nahibaluan nga sa Roma, yara sa ginabanta 150,000 ang mga ido kag 300,000 ang mga kuring.
Lalaki nga desperado nga makaupod ang iya asawa nga duha ka tuig na niya nga wala nakit-an, nagtilaw nga magbugsay halin sa Thailand padulong sa India apisar nga malain nga tyempo, wala sang ekstra nga panapton, kag noodles lang ang balon
Kun gugma na gani ang pagahambalan, daw halos wala sang imposible bangud tanan masarangan himuon sang tawo.
Kaangay sang Vietnamese nga lalaki nga daw maano na gid bangud duha ka tuig niya nga wala makit-an ang iya asawa nga nagatrabaho sa India.
Ang lalaki amo si Ho Hoang Hung, nagaedad sang 37 anyos.
Halin sa Ho Chi Minh City sa Vietnam, nagbyahe si Hung padulong sa Bangkok, Thailand agud kuntani nga makasakay sa eroplano kag makalab-ot sa Mumbai, India.
Sa malain nga palad, bangud wala nakakuha sang visa kag wala nag-ugyon ang panahon, nagpadulong na lang si Ho sa Pattaya, isa man ka syudad sa Thailand.
Bangud desperado siya sa iya misyon nga makit-an ang iya asawa, nagdesisyon ini nga magsakay sa isa ka gamay nga rafting boat.
Ang plano ni Ho amo nga magtabok sa dagat paagi sa pag-paddle, apang nakahibalo ka kun daw ano kalayo ang iya kinahanglan i-paddle agud makalab-ot sa India?
Sang ginabanta 80 kilometros na ang kalayuon sang na-paddle ni Ho halin sa mainland sang Thailand, may isa ka fishing boat nga nagtawag sa maritime security agud ma-rescue si Ho bangud nahadlok sila kun ano ang matabo sa iya.
Sang ginpadulungan sang otoridad si Ho, nakit-an ang dala sini nga suitcase, may botelya sang tubig apang wala na halos sang unod, may 10 ka pakete sang noodles — apang ang masadya — wala man lang ini sang mapa, compass, GPS, ukon ekstra nga panapton.
18 ka gab-i man ang gintinir ni Ho sa tunga sang dagat, apang wala na siya ginpasugtan nga magpadayon sa lawod kag gindala siya liwat sa Thailand.
Kun basehan lang ang iya nga kadasigon, ginabanta 625 ka adlaw pa ini antes nga makalab-ot sa India — apang ina kun wala sang malain nga matabo sa iya, bangud sang amo nga tion, may yara sang bagyo nga gina-forecast sa Bay of Bengal.
Ginbuligan si Ho nga mabutang anay sa isa ka temporaryo nga puluy-an kag gilayon man nga ginpakig-angutan ang Vietnamese embassy kag ang Indian embassy agud nga makita na sini ang iya nga asawa.##
Mag-asawa, nagbulagay bangud sa huragok sang nanay sang lalaki
ILOILO CITY- Normal lang nga sa isa ka pamilya may yara gid ya sang grabe kun maghuragok.
Kun kaisa, maham-ot ka apang kun kaisa, maugot ka man ilabi na kun ikaw indi na matulugan bangud sa ila paghuragok.
Apang didto sa Jordan, may yara sang isa ka pamilya nga bangud sa huragok, nagresulta pa sa pag-diborsyo sang mag-asawa.
Ini matapos nga gin-kuhaan sang video sang isa ka asawa ang nagahuragok nga nanay sang iya bana.
Gin-upload niya ini sa social media nga ginkaakig naman sang bana.
Bangud sini, nag-file sang divorce ang lalaki kag natigayon gid ang ila pagbulagay.
Nahibaluan nga sang 2016, ang Jordan ang may pinakamataas nga divorce rate sa Middle East, kag base sa Department of Statistics,ang numero sang divorces sang 2016 ang yara sa 21,969 gikan sa 1,000 sang 2011.
Ginhangkat sang world’s richest person nga si Elon Musk ang presidente sang Russia nga si Vladimir Putin sa isa ka single combat.
Ginhimo sang nasambit nga American Billionaire ang hangkat sa Twittter.
Wala pa ini na-kontento kag nag-follow up pa sa isa ka tweet nga nagpamangkot kay Putin kun ginabaton sini ang iya pagpanghangkat.
Gin-tag pa sini ang Kremlin sa amo nga post.
May isa pa ka follower nga nagkomento nga basi nagalahog lang ang bilyonaryo, apang sabat ni Musk, seryoso siya sa iya nga tweet.
Wala pa sang insigida nga sabat halin sa Kremlin.
Una diri, ginpahayag na sang 50-anyos nga billionaire ang iya suporta sa Ukraine, amo man ang pagtanyag sang simpatiya sa mga tawo sa Russia nga wala man naluyag sa gyera.
Nagbulig man ini sa Kyiv paagi sa pag-active sa Starlink internet service sa Ukraine kag pagpadala sang equipment para sa connectivity sa mga lugar nga ginpang-atake sang Russian military.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang 69-anyos nga presidente sang Russia ang isa man ka judo blackbelt kag naka-co-author man sang libro nga tungod sa sports.
May tig-ulo ini nga ‘Judo: History, Theory, Practice’.Siya man ang honorary president sang International Judo Federation sang 2008, apang nasuspinde bangud sa iya nangin role sa away batok sa Ukraine.
ILOILO CITY- Paano ayhan kun ang imo pangasawahon may mga kapid?
Pero paano kun indi ini gusto nga mapahilayo sa iya kapid,ano ang himuon mo?
Didto sa Congo,may isa ka lalaki nga si Luwizo nga mapakasal kuntani sa iya nobya nga si Natalie.
Si Natalie isa sa tatlo ka triplets kun sa diin utod niya sanday Natasha kag Nadege kag sila ang lunsay identical.
Matapos nga nagkitaay si Natalie kag Luwizo sa social media kag na-inlove sa isa kag isa, ginpahayag nga gin-chat man sang duha pa gid ka kapid si Luwizo kag sa iya pagdumdom, ang nobya lang niya ang naga-chat.
Didto kag nahulog man ang buot sa iya sang duha pa gid ka utod ni Natalie.
Kag sang gintuad nila nga triplets gali sila kag tanan luyag nga pakaslan siya,wala na ini makapamalibad bangud nga nahulog man ang buot niya sa tatlo.
Ang ila desisyon, magpakasal nalang– natural, tatlo ang bride kag isa ka groom.
Apisar wala nagpasugot ang ginikanan sang lalaki,wala na sila sang nahimo kag nadayon gid ang kasal.
ILOILO CITY- Halos tanan sa aton ang nakakilala sa cartoon character nga si Winnie the Pooh.
Ang iban gani siguro nagakolekta pa sang mga items nga may picture ni Winnie the Pooh ilabi na ang mga bata.
Maswerte ka bangud sa Pilipinas, okay lang nga mangin fan ni Winnie.
Indi kaangay sa Poland nga ginadumilian ini.
May yara sang layi sa pungsod nga ang ini cuddly little yellow bear ang indi pwede makit-an sa mga playgrounds kag eskwelahan.
Lalaki sa China, indi mapunggan ang paghibi sa tion nga magkaon
May mga tawo nga palahibi, kag may yara man nga naanad kag natak-an na sa paghibi rason nga hangkilan na sa pagpugong sa pagtulo sang ila nga mga luha.
Apang pinasahi ang kondisyon sang isa ka lalaki didto sa China.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, na-obserbahan sang lalaki nga si Mr.
Zhang nga indi niya mapunggan ang iya nga luha kun siya ang magkaon ukon mag-usap sang pagkaon.
Sang una, daw okay pa man, tubtub nga naglala na kag nahuya na ini mag-dine in sa mga restaurant bangud nagakatingala ang mga tawo sa palibot kun ngaa wala untat ang iya hibi samtang nagakaon.
Bangud sa epekto sini sa iya nga social life, nagpa-konsulta si Mr.
Zhang sa ophthalmologist kag didto nahibaluan nga may yara siya sang medical condition nga gamay lang nga mga tawo sa kalibutan ang nagasuprer.
Antes sini, naatake sang Bell’s Palsy si Mr.
Zhang kag amo ini ang ginatudlo rason sang iya nga crocodile tear syndrome.
Suno sa mga doktor, bangud sa face paralysis sadto ni Mr.
Zhang, nag-angkon sang abnormality ang lacrimal glands niya sa mata.Ang lacrimal glands ang parte sang mata nga amo ang nagapa-guwa sang luha sang tawo.
Bangud sa sini nga abnormality, na-stimulate kag nagaguwa ang luha sa lacrimal glands kun makasimhot ukon makapanabor si Mr.
Nagpaidalom na ini subong sa surgery kag subong gina-obserbaran kun makabulig ini sa iya nga kondisyon.
ILOILO CITY- Sa Pilipinas,makapagusto ang mga manok nga maglagaw sa dalanon.
Pero kun didto ka sa Georgia, lain ang istorya.
Ini bangud nga may layi sa lugar nga nagadumili sa mga manok nga magtabok sa karsada.
Simple lang ang ila rason kun ngaa naghimo sila sang amo nga layi- luyag nila nga siguraduhon ang safety kag kasagrado sang ila manok.
Kun magkaon ka naman sang fried chicken ,kinahanglan nga gamiton gid ang kamot kag indi maggamit sang tinidor.
Ang amo nga layi nagaragaway sang manok bilang culinary delicacy sacred to its municipality.
Siguro ini ang rason kun ngaa deserving ang mga manok sang layi nga para lang gid sa ila.
Babaye, ginpeke ang pagbusong agud maka-avail sang maternity leave sa trabaho
ILOILO CITY- Masarangan mo bala nga peke-on ang imo pagbusong para lang nga maka-avail ikaw sang malawig nga maternity leave gikan sa imo trabaho?
Kun halos tanan, indi ang sabat, may isa ka babaye naman sa Georgia nga masarangan ini kag sa pagkamatuod, nahimo na niya gani.
Sang Oktubre 2020, si Robin Folsom, nga nagatrabaho bilang Director sang External Affairs sa Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency, ang nagsiling sa iya boss nga manugbata ini gani nga nag-arrange siya nga mag -avail sang maternity leave.
Siya may yara sang yearly salary nga $100,000 kag entitled sa $15,000 nga paid leave.
Apang,sang tion sang iya alleged pregnancy, isa sa iya nga co-workers ang nakanotar nga ang baby bump ni Folsom ang nadula sa iya lawas kag nagduda sila nga peke ang iya pagbusong.
Mas nangin weird pa ang gin-alegar peke nga pagbun-ag ni Folsom sang nagapadala siya sa iya co-workers sang letrato sang iya baby apang lain-lain ang skintone sang bata gani mas labi sila nga nagduda.
Bangud diri, isa ka imbestigasyon ang ginpatigayon kag natukiban nga wala ini sang official records sa ospital tuhoy sa iya pagbata, wala man sang charges para sa iya prenatal exams sa iya medical insurance records apisar nga sang July 2020,gin-alegar sini nga nagbata man siya antes nagbusong liwat sang August 2021.
Kasunod sang imbestigasyon , nag-resign si Folsom sa iya trabaho apang siya ang ginpasakaan gid sang kaso.
Kun ma- convict, si Robin Folsom ang mahimo mangatubang sang tubtob 10 ka tuig nga pagkapreso bangud sa identity fraud kag paghimo sang false statements.
Mahimo man siya multahan sang tubtob $103,000 ukon masobra 5 million pesos kun mapamatud-an nga guilty sa tanan nga charges.
Baby Shark, Let It Go, gingamit sang mga pulis sa NZ agud maghawan ang linibo ka mga protesters
Nagalibog ang ulo sang mga pulis sa Wellington, New Zealand kun paano patawhayon ang sitwasyon bangud linibo ka mga protesters ang nagtingob agud pamatukan ang vaccine mandate sang gobyerno.
Bangud sini, lain-lain na nga creative efforts ang ginhimo — may direkta nga pagpakitluoy sa mga tawo, may gin-deploy nga sprinklers, kag may yara pa gani nga gin-aresto gid ang mga protesters apang nagadamo pa gid gani ang mga tawo.
Sa ika-lima nga adlaw sang protesta, gintilawan sang mga pulis ang taktika nga “battle of the music speakers”.
Una nga ginpatunog ang 15 minutos nga loop sang mga kanta ni Barry Manilow lakip na ang Mandy, may yara man sang Macarena sang Los Del Rio, kag ginsulit-sulit man sa pag-play ang Covid-19 vaccine advertisements.
Ginpangpili pa sa playlist ang world’s 25 most hated songs agud nga maghawan ang tawo.
Gin-boo sang mga tawo ang mga kanta kag nagkanta man ang mga protesters sang 1984 Twisted Sister song nga “We’re Not Gonna Take It.”
Sang ulihi, wala pa gid nag-untat ang otoridad, ginplay pa gid ang “My Heart Will Go On” ni Celine Dion pati na ang children’s songs kaangay sang “Let It Go” sang Frozen kag “Baby Shark.”
May bonus pa ini nga “You’re Beautiful” sang English Musician nga si James Blunt.
Nangin viral ang ginhimo sang mga pulis, apang palpak man gihapon bangud wala sang labot ang mga tawo kag nagsaot pa gid gani kag nag-upod sa pagkanta bangud nasaulo na nila ang lyrics.
Sa subong, nagdesisyon ang mga pulis nga sundon na ang hands-off approach matapos ang ila attempt nga kontrolon ang publiko nga amo ang nagresulta sa bayolente nga ilinaway kag pag-aresto sa masobra 100 ka tawo.
Pinakadako nga strawberry, makit-an sa Israel
Pila ka strawberries ang sarang mo nga makaon?
Madamo sa aton ang nahiligan na nga magkaon sang strawberries ilabi na gid kun ini ang ginsawsaw sa tsokolate.
Apang, sa Israel, nadiskubrehan ang isa ka giant strawberry.
Ini ang nagabug-at sang 10.19-ounce ukon ginabanta 288 grams.
Ang Israeli farmer nga si Ariel Chahi ang nakabaton sang award nga Guinness World bangud sa pinkadako nga strawberry nga ila gintanom sang iya nga pamilya.
Ang pamilya ni Ariel Chahi ang nagapanag-iya sang Strawberry field bilang ila nga negosyo sa Kadima-Zoran, Israel.
Ang amu nga strawberry ang sahi sang Ilan variety, nga una gin-bred ni Nir Dai, researcher sang Israel’s Agricultural Research Organization.
Suno kay Dai, ang amu nga sahi sang strawberry, ang masami nagadako bangud sa malamig nga temperatura.
Uganda, nakaagum sang Guinness World Record bilang may naubra nga pinakadako nga rolled egg sa kalibutan
Makaya mo ayhan nga magkaon sang 451-pound nga rolled eggs?
Sa Uganda, isa ka youtuber ang nagtipon sang manugluto agud nga mag-ubra sang pinakadako nga rolled egg sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ini amu ang record-breaking nga 451-pound Ugandan rolex (kilala nga street food sa Uganda)
Si Raymond Kahuma, popular nga YouTube creator sa Uganda, kaupod ang grupo sang mga manugluto sa Kasokoso, Wakiso District, nahimo nila nga maluto ang 7×6 feet long kag 2×2 feet in diameter nga kadamulun sang pinakadako nga rolex ukon rolled eggs.
Ang Ugandan rolex ang himo sa fried omelet nga may sulod sang nagakalin-lain nga utan, ini ang gin-roll gamit ang wheat flower flatbread.
Tuig man ang preparsayon sang grupo nanday Kahuma sa pag-develop sang pinakaepektibo nga proseso sa pag-ubra sang amu nga oversized street food.
Naglab-ut naman sa 14 ka oras kag 26 minutos ang pagubra sang largest rolled egg.
Ini ang nagresulta sang Guinness World Record bilang pinakadako nga Ugandan rolex.
Nagabusong nga babayi nga nangin desperada nga makaangkon sang anak nga lalaki, nagdangop sa faith healer, nagpalansang sa ulo
Bangud sa paglaum nga makaangkon sang anak nga lalaki, nagpasugot ang isa ka nagabusong nga babayi sa Pakistan nga magpalansang sa iya nga ulo.
Natabo ini sa Peshawar, ang capital kag pinakadaku nga syudad sa probinsya sang Khyber Pakhtunkhwa sa Pakistan.
Sandig sa report, nagdali-dali ang babayi nga magpangayo sang bulig sa ospital matapos sini gintilawan nga gabuton ang 5 sentimetros ukon duha ka inches nga kalabaaon sang lansang.
Una nga gin-alegar sang babayi nga siya ang naglansang sa iya nga ulo, apang sang ulihi, gin-ako sini nga ang naglansang sa iya ulo amo mismo ang faith healer nga nagpangako sa iya nga makabun-ag siya sa isa ka lapsag nga lalaki kun magpasugot sa amo nga akto.
Haider Khan, staff member sa Lady Reading Hospital, “fully conscious” ang babayi apang tuman ang kasakit nga iya nabatyagan.
Suno pa sa impormasyon halin sa ospital, may tatlo na ka anak ang amo nga babayi.
Ginapahayag ginpahog siya sang iya bana nga bayaan kun babayi gihapon ang iya igabun-ag nga lapsag.
Sa kahadlok sang babayi, nagpalapit ini sa faith healer.
Sa subong gin-imbestigaran na sang mga pulis ang x-ray images sang injury nga nag-appear man online.
Sandig sa tweet ni Peshawar police chief Abbas Ahsan, may special investigative team na nga gintukod agud pasabton ang ginatudlo nga faith healer kag agud mahatagan hustisya ang natabo sa babayi.
Nahibaluan nga sa pigado nga mga nasyon sa South Asia, ang anak nga lalaki ang ginapatihan makadala sang swerte para sa financial security sang mga ginikanan.
Common naman ang faith healers sa pila ka bahin sang Pakistan, ilabi na sa north-western tribal areas.
Ang ila practice ang nakasandig sa Sufi lore nga ginalaragway man nga “form of Islamic mysticism.”
Ini nga mga aktibidad ang banned man sa madamo nga mga eskwelahan sang Islam.
Delivery rider, arestado matapos ginhold-up ang kaugalingon
Arestado ang isa ka delivery rider matapos nga ginhold-up ang iya kaugalingon.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, wala naka-remit ang suspek nga si alyas “Eduardo” sang P18, 500 koleksiyon bangud gin-alegar niya nga gintaban ini sang riding-in-tandem sa Quezon City.
Gin-alegar sang rider nga ginbanggaan siya sang mga suspek nga sakay man sa motor kag ginkuha ang iya kwarta.
Matapos nag-report sa pulis, gin-check sang mga ini ang lugar kun sa diin ginpahayag nga natabo ang paghold-up.
Sa mga CCTV footages, wala gid sang nakit-an nga may ginhold-up sa lugar.
Diri na nakumpirma sang mga pulis nga nagbinutig ang rider kag nag-ako nga gin-gamit niya ang kwarta sa paghampang sang scatter.
Ginpasakaan na ini sang kaso nga estafa kag perjury.
1 patay matapos ginpaarakan luthang ang isa ka namatyan
Patay ang isa ka lalaki samtang pilason naman ang isa ka solterito matapos ginpaarakan luthang ang isa ka namatyan sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Tito”, 44-anyos, residente sang amo man nga lugar.
Magluwas sa napatay, may nadaplisan man sang bala nga isa ka solterito.
Suno sa imbestigas­yon, nagahampang sang Cara y Cruz si alyas “Tito” sang hinali lang nag-abot ang duha ka mga suspek.
Nagsulod sa namatyan ang mga suspek kag sang nakita si alyas “Tito” nga ila target, didto nila ini ginpaulanan sang bala.
Madasig nga nalagyo ang mga suspek sakay sa motorsiklo.
4 patay sa bungguanay sang truck kag multicab
Apat ka tawo ang ginbawian sang kabuhi matapos nagbungguanay ang truck kag multicab sa Aleosan, Cotabato.
Natabo ang trahedya kadungan sang Sabado de Gloria.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday ­Angela Kamensa, 21-anyos, Lukaya Adil, 43-anyos, Sambabay Andatuan, 50-anyos, kag Arshahid Adzal, 4-anyos.
29 naman ang pilason nga ginabulong pa sa ospital.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nadulaan sang kontrol ang isa ka Isuzu Elf truck sang nag-overtake ini sa isa ka motorsiklo.
Natabuan man nga may nagasugata nga multicab kag natabo ang bungguanay.
Bangud sa impact, natumba ang truck kag nagtalabog ang masobra 30 ka mga sakay sini nga pakadto kuntani sa outing.
Ang apat nga napatay ang lunsay sakay sang truck.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad angot sa insidente.
P30.78M nga balor sang ketamine halin sa Netherlands, nakumpiskar sa Pampanga
Nakumpiskar sang mga katapo sang Bureau of Customs (BOC) sa Port of Clark sa Pampanga ang ginabanta P30.78 milyon nga balor sang iligal nga droga nga gintago sa sulod sang cable spool.
Suno sa BOC, gindeklarar nga “solar cables” halin sa Netherlands ang shipment kag padulong kuntani sa Pasig City.
Sang gin-usisa ini sang maayo, nadiskubrehan nga may yara sang anum ka mga plastic pouch nga nakatago sa sulod sang kable nga nagabug-at sang masobra sa anum ka kilo.
Nakumpirma sa examination nga ketamine ang sulod sini nga isa ka sahi sang ginadumilian nga droga.
Kasunod sini, ginpagwa ang Warrant of Seizure and Detention para sa shipment sa paglapas sa Republic Act No.
3 patay, 3 pilason sa tricycle nga nabungguan sang pick-up
Tatlo ang patay kag tatlo ang pilason sa disgrasya sa San Fabian, Pangasinan.
Natabo ini sang Abril 1, Mierkules Santo.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagapauli na ang mga biktima sakay sa tricycle nga halin sa beach.
Ginpahayag nga may nag-overtake nga pick-up truck sa isa pa ka salakyan apang wala sini matalupangdan ang ginasakyan nga tricycle sang mga biktima.
Nabungguan gid sang pick-up truck kag nayudyod pa ang tricycle nga nagresulta sa kamatayon sang mga biktima.
Padayon pa nga ginabulong sa ospital ang mga pilason.
Yara na sa kustodiya sang pulis ang 25-anyos nga driver sang pickup.
Base sa impormasyon, hubog ang driver sang pick-up sang natabo ang disgrasya.
3 customers nga naglaw-ay sa ginbakal nga beauty products, nagreklamo
Nagdangop sa otoridad ang tatlo ka mga customers agud ireklamo ang isa ka baligyaan sang beauty products sa Antipolo City, Rizal.
Ini matapos gin-alegar sang mga ini nga naglaw-ay sila kag na-damage ang ila panit matapos gin-gamit na nila ang produkto nga habon nga iya sang “Dimple Soaps” sa Barangay San Jose.
Kasunod sang reklamo, nagpatigayon sang cyber surveillance ang otoridad kag natumod nga delikado ang ila mga produkto bangud wala nagpaidalom sa mandatory quality kag safety testing, wala sang license to operate (LTO), kag wala sang iban pa nga permits.
Natigayon ang operasyon sang Marso 25 kun sa diin giinsalakay sang NBI, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), kag Antipolo Business Permit and Licensing Office (BPLO) ang factory sang habon.
Gin-padlock ang amo nga kompaniya kag mangatubang sang sampaw-sampaw nga mga kaso.
1 patay, 16 pilason sa PUV nga nahulog sa banglid
Isa ang patay kag 16 ang pilason matapos nahulog sa banglid ang isa ka public utility vehicle (PUV) sa Brgy.
Ang napatay amo ang 65-anyos nga lolo nga ginkilala kay Julio Agaton nga nag-angkon sang dako nga pilas sa ulo.
Base sa impormasyon, nadulaan sang preno ang salakyan kag nagdiretso na nga nahulog sa banglid.
Madasig naman nga nagresponde ang rescue team kag ginpangdala sa ospital ang mga biktima.
Natabo ang trahedya sang Martes Santo, Marso 31, 2026.
Gwardiya, ginluthang-patay ang 2 ka lalaki nga ginaalegar nag-bully sa iya
Patay ang duha ka mga lalaki matapos gintiro sang security guard nga ila gin-bully sa Cebu City.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, pila ka beses na nga gina-bully sang mga biktima ang suspek.
Pahayag sang, madugay na ini nga nagaugtom kag nagapugong apang sang amo nga tion, nagdulom na ang iya panulukan kag nahimo ang krimen.
Samtang, ginpanginwala naman sang asawa sang isa sa mga biktima nga gina-bully sang iya bana ang gwardiya.
Sa subong, preso na ang suspekkag mangatubang sang nagakaigo nga kaso.
Supervisor sang gas station, gintaban ang P57M nga kita sang gasolinahan
Arestado ang 35-anyos nga gas station supervisor matapos ginpahayag nga gintaban sini ang P57 milyon nga balor sang kita sang gasolinahan sa Taft Avenue, Manila.
Nadakpan ang babaye nga suspek sa isa ka manhunt operation sa Paranaque City.
Ginpahayag nga ginapeke sang suspek ang mga deposit slip sang bangko agud pagwaon nga nadeposito niya ang kita sang gasolinahan.
Padayon ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad kaangot sa insidente.
Babaye, patay matapos gin-arado sang SUV ang tricycle
Patay ang isa ka babaye samtang pilason naman ang isa pa matapos na-hit-and-run sang isa ka SUV ang tricycle sa Barangay Nancamaliran East, Urdaneta City, Pangasinan.
Bangud sa kabaskugon, napatay ang pasahero ng sakay sang tricycle.
Sa baylo naman nga magpondo, nagpalagyo ang SUV.
Padayon ang imbestigasyon kag nagapanawagan ang otoridad sa publiko nga magbulig agud madasig nga madakpan ang driver sang SUV nga nakabunggo sa mga biktima.
Kagawad, patay matapos gintiro sa atubang sang barangay hall
Patay ang isa ka barangay kagawad matapos gintiro sang apat ka wala pa makilal-an nga mga lalaki sa atubang sang barangay hall sa Barangay San Nicolas 3, Bacoor City, Cavite.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Domingo”, 57-anyos, residente sang amo nga lugar.
Nakilal-an ang duha sa apat ka mga suspek nga sanday alyas “Rannie” kag “Raz” nga pareho man nga nagaistar sa lugar.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nakagwa lang sa barangay hall ang biktima matapos ang session sang gintiro ini.
Nadala pa ini sa ospital apang wala na matabangan.
Base sa kuha sang cctv, nagasakay sa isa ka kotse ang mga suspek nga padayon pa nga ginapangita.
Patay na sang nakit-an ang tatlo ka mga lalaki nga nalumos sa isa ka irigasyon sa Brgy.
Naglabrahan, Guimba, Nueva Ecija kahapon, Lunes Santo.
Ginpahayag nga pagkatapos nga nag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon, naligo sa irigasyon ang tatlo ka mag-abyan.
Suno sa impormasyon, gin-anod ang mga ini bangud sa mabaskog nga daludo sang tubig sa irigasyon.
Padayon naman nga ginaimbestigahan sang otoridad ang insidente.
Anom ka mga drivers sa Western Visayas ang nagpositibo sa drug test matapos ang ginpatigayon nga Oplan Harabas sang Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) 6 sa nanuhay-tuhay nga terminals sa Western Visayas, kahapon, Marso 30.
Base sa record sang ahensya, duha ang nagpositibo sa Pueblo de Panay Integrated Transport Terminal, Capiz; duha ang nagpositibo sa Culasi Ceres Terminal sa Antique; isa man sa San Jose de Buenavista Terminal, Antique; kag isa sa City Mall Terminal, Kalibo, Aklan.
Graziella Tanaleon, spokesperson sang PDEA 6, iya ginpahayag nga kabahin ang surprise drug test sang Oplan Harabas nga programa sang ahensya kun sa diin ila ginapasiguro nga wala nagagamit sang iligal nga droga ang mga nagatarabho sa transport sector.
Suno kay Tanaleon, 822 tanan ang ginpaidalom sa nasambit nga drug test kun sa diin 761 diri amo ang drivers kag 61 naman ang kundoktor.
Pahayag pa ni Tanaleon, magapaidalom pa ang anom sa confirmatory test, apang nahibaluan nga ginkumpiskar na sang Land Transportation Office ang ila nga mga lisensya matapos nga nagpositibo kag temporaryo man nga ginpauntat ang ila nga byahe samtang wala pa ang mga ini nagnegatibo sa confirmatory test.
3 ka solterito, patay sa bungguanay sang bus kag motor
Patay ang tatlo ka mga solterito matapos nabungguan sang bus ang ginasakyan nila nga motorsiklo sa Cadiz City, Negros Occidental.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Rolly kag Kim nga pareho nga 17-anyos, kag ang 13-anyos nga si Jay R.
Ginpahayag nga madasig ang dalagan sang motorsiklo sang natabo ang aksidente.
Nagtabog gid ang mga biktima rason nga nag-angkon sang patal nga mga pilas.
Nagpasalig naman ang tag-iya sang bus nga magahatag sang bulig pinansyal sa pamilya sang mga napatay.
Lalaki, patay matapos nabun-an kadungan sang fiesta sa Caboloan Sur, Oton
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang isa lalaki matapos ini nabun-an sa Barangay Caboloan Sur, Oton, Iloilo, kahapon.
Ang biktima amo si Jerry Nequing, 40-anyos, kag residente sang nasambit nga lugar.
Duha naman ang napilasan sa insidente nga amo sanday alyas Art, 38-anyos kag alyas Jo, 57-anyos nga lunsay residente sang amo man nga barangay.
Ang suspek amo si alyas Jonel, 38-anyos kag residente sang Barangay Tuburan, Oton.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay PLtCol.
Arnel Solis, hepe sang Oton Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga natabo ang insidente kadungan sang fiesta sa barangay.
Suno kay Solis, base sa imbestigasyon, nagluntad ang komosyon sa gwa sang gym.
Pahayag niya, antes ang hitabo, may yara man sang pagbaisay sa tunga sang mga involved nga indibidwal.
Madasig man nga ginpangdala ang mga biktima sa ospital apang wala na natabangan si Nequing.
Gin-alegar naman sang utod ni Nequing nga nagtambag lang ini matapos makit-an ang iya hinablos nga gintapungol sang grupo sang suspek apang siya ang ginbuno man.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay alyas “Fourth”, wala man sila makahibalo kun ano gid ang ginhalinan apang sa panaysayon sang hinablos, masakit ang tulok sang isa sa grupo sang suspek kag sang naglabay ini kag ginsita.
Desidido ang pamilya sang napatay nga magpasaka sang kaso batok sa suspek.
Wala na natabangan pa ang kolektor sang isa ka lending company matapos gintiro sang wala pa nakilala nga indibidwal sa Columbio, Sultan Kudarat.
Ang biktima amo si Froylan Dale Combate nga residente sang Koronadal City, South Cotabato.
Ginpahayag nga halin sa pagpanukot ang biktima sang ginbanggaan kag gintiro sang suspek sang makapila ka beses nga gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Gintaban pa sang suspek ang kwarta sang biktima.
MDRRMO employee, ginpatay sang riding in tandem
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka empleyado sang Municipal Disaster Risk Reduction and Ma­nagement Office (MDRRMO) sang Sariaya, Quezon matapos gintiro sang riding in tandem sa Barangay Lutucan 1 sa amo nga banwa.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Pepe”, 37-anyos, residente sang amo man nga banwa.
Suno sa otoridad, padulong ang biktima sa munsipyo sakay sa iya kotse sang hinali lang nag-ulhot ang mga suspek kag ginpaulanan ini sang bala.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang biktima apang dead-on-arrival.
Padayon pa nga ginapangita ang mga suspek.
Babaye nga wala nagpautang, 20 beses nga ginbuno sang pakaisa
Patay ang isa ka babaye matapos ginbuno sang iya pakaisa nga wala niya ginpautang.
Ang biktima ang nagaedad sang 25-anyos samtang ang suspek nagaedad sang 26-anyos.
Mismo ang pito ka tuig nga bata sang biktima ang nagpanugid sa natabo.
Suno sa bata, nagahulam sang kwarta ang iya tiyo nga suspek apang namalibad ang biktima.
Didto na nagkuha sang kutsilyo ang suspek kag ginbuno sang 20 ka beses ang babaye.
Nagdalagan naman ang bata kag nangayo sang bulig.
Nalagyo pa ang suspek apang natigayon ini nga madakpan.
415 ka mga gasolinahan sa bilog nga Pilipinas, temporaryo nga nagsarado subong nga adlaw sang Myerkules suno sa PNP
Nagdangat sa 415 ka mga gasolinahan sa bilog nga Pilipinas ang temporaryo nga nagsarado subong nga adlaw sang Myerkules, bangud sa pagtaas sang presyo sang langis dala gihapon sang padayon nga tensyon sa Middle East suno sa Philippine National Police.
Pinakamataas nga numero sang mga gasolinahan nga temporaryo nga nagsarado ang yara sa Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR) nga may yara sang halos 78 ka mga gasolinahan, sunod ang Cagayan Valley, Central Luzon, Calabarzon, kag Bicol.
Jose Melencio Nartatez Jr., hugot nila nga gina-monitor ang sitwasyon kag indi sang mga ini pagtugutan ang pagpamentaha sang pila ka mga negosyante sa ila konsumidor.
Kaupod man sang mga awtoridad ang Department of Energy kag iba pa nga ahensya agud bantayan ang suplay kag presyo sang gatong.
Sa karun, halos 14,000 ka mga fuel stations sa bilog nga Pilipinas ang ginabantayan gid sang mga kapulisan.
Isa ka gobernador, pilason matapos nakabunggo sa poste ang iya motorsiklo
Duguon ang gobernador sang Surigao del Sur matapos naaksidente samtang sakay sa iya nga motorsiklo.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, sakay si Governor Johnny Pimentel sa iya motorsiklo sang nadulaan ini sang control sa madanlog kag kurbadahon nga dalan sa Sitio Puting Buhangin, Brgy.
Gindala ini sa ospital sa Cagwait apang ginsalyo sa Manila para sa specialized medical care.
Yara na ini sa stable nga kondisyon matapos nag-angkon sang pilas sa tiil.
Ginlamon sang kalayo ang pila ka classrooms sa Catalunan Pequeño National High School sa Davao City.
Ginpahayag nga naghalin sa isa ka stock room ang kalayo kag naglapta pakadto sa tupad nga building.
Ginahibalo pa kon ano gid ang ginhalinan sang sunog.
3 ka real estate agents, patay sa paglugdang sang isa ka pumpboat
Tatlo ka babaye ang patay matapos naglugdang ang ginasakyan nila nga pumpboat sa kadagatan nga sakop sang Brgy.
Ang mga biktima amo ang 2 ka babaye nga pareho nga nagaedad 50-anyos kag isa ka 45-anyos.
Lunsay real estate agents ang mga biktima.
Nakaluwas naman ang 11 ka iban pa nga mga pasahero.
Ginpahayag nga ginhampak sang mabaskog ang sakayan rason nga nagkulob ini kag naglugdang.
Nagapangatubang naman sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in 3-counts of homicide ang tag-iya sang pumpboat.
Arestado ang isa ka public school principal sa buy-bust operation sa Poblacion, Tagbina, Surigao del Sur.
Ginkilala ang 45-anyos nga subject nga si alyas “Jay” kag may ranggo nga Principal III sa idalom sang Department of Education Tagbina District.
Narekober sa iya ang ₱6,800 nga balor sang shabu.
Preso na ini kag nagapangatubang sang panumbungon nga paglapas sa Republic Act 9165 ukon ang Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
Rider kag 3-anyos nga anak, patay sa bungguanay sang motor kag tricycle
Patay ang isa ka 29-anyos nga rider kag ang iya 3-anyos nga bata nga babaye sa bungguanay sang motorsiklo kag tricycle sa Basista, Pangasinan.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagadalagan ang motor sang hinali lang nga nagsaylo ini sa pihak nga linya sang dalan kag nabungguan ang tricycle.
Wasak ang motorsiklo nga ginasakyan sang mag-amay nga nag-angkon sang kapilasan kag gindala pa sa ospital apang wala na natabangan pa.
Ginpahayag nga nakainom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon ang amay nga biktima.
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang barangay kapitana sang Brgy.
Licuroan, Midsalip, Zamboanga del Sur matapos nga gintiro sang mga armado nga mga lalaki.
Chairwoman Jodeliza Mansip nga nag-angkon sang mga igo sang bala sa nanuhay-tuhay nga parte sang lawas.
Maswerte naman nga wala naigo ang upod sini nga 18-anyos nga lalaki.
Sakay sa motorsiklo si Mansip upod ang 18-anyos nga lalaki apang nanaog ang opisyal bangud sa mabudlay nga dalan kag didto na nabatian ang sunod-sunod nga lupok kag natumba ang biktima.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital apang wala na natabangan pa.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon sa nasambit nga krimen.
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka municipal councilor sa Paglat sa Maguindanao del Sur matapos gintiro sang mga armado nga mga lalaki sa atubang mismo sang iya balay.
Base sa imbestigasyon, may ginasugilanon ini sa atubang sang ila balay sang hinali lang ginpalapitan sang mga armado nga mga lalaki kag gintiro ini sang pila ka beses.
Nag-angkon sang madamo nga igo sang bala ang biktima nga gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Padayon pa nga ginaimbestigaran sang otoridad ang insidente.
Vice mayor, arestado matapos nakuhaan sang shabu
Gindakop sang otoridad paagi sa isa ka joint anti-drug operation sang Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA-10) Camiguin Provincial Office kag mga law enforcement agencies ang isa ka incumbent Vice Mayor matapos nakuhaan ini sang shabu.
Ginkilala ang opisyal nga si alyas “Tata”, 66, sang Purok 3, Brgy.
Nakuha sa iya ang shabu nga nagabalor P102,000.
Narekober man ang isa ka .9mm pistol nga may mga bala.
Mangatubang ini sa kaso nga paglapas sa Sections 11 kag 12, Article II sang Republic Act No.
Patay ang isa ka barangay kapitan samtang pilason naman ang isa ka mangunguma sa natabo nga ambush sa Barangay Kabulihan, Gen.
Ang napatay nga biktima amo si Arthur Bautista, 40-anyos.
Ang pilason amo si Conrado Villena, 56-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, gintiro sang wala pa nakilala nga mga suspek ang duha ka biktima.
Madasig naman nga nalagyo ang mga suspek.
Padayon ang imbestigasyon sang kapulisan angot sa insidente.
Estudyante nga napatay sa nasunog nga wing van sa Zarraga, may pilas sa dughan, base sa autopsy
Naggwa sa resulta sang autopsy nga may pilas sa dughan ang lalaki nga napatay matapos wala ini makagwa sa nasunog nga wing van sa Zarraga, Iloilo sang damlag lang.
Ang biktima amo si Jansen Brillo, 19-anyos, isa ka estudyante kag crew sang isa ka sound sytem.
Suno sa Zarraga PNP, ginalantaw nga tuga sang pagkabuno ang nakit-an nga pilas sa biktima.
5 ka bus, 2 ka taxi nasunog sa parking lot
Ginlamon sang kalayo ang lima ka depampasahero nga bus kag duha ka taxi sa isa ka ka parking lot sa Antipolo City, Rizal sang Marso 15.
Ginpahayag nga naghalin sa gamay nga baga gikan sa cutting tools ang kalayo nga gin-gamit sa ginabaklas nga guba nga bus kag duha ka daan nga taxi.
Nalab-ot man sang kalayo ang apat ka pa mga bus nga gina-repair.
Ginpahayag nga nagakaon sang panyaga ang mga trabahador kag wala nila manotaran ang amat-amat nga pagdako sang kalayo.
Gintinguhaan pa nila nga mapalong ini paagi sa pagbasya sang tubig apang wala nila masarangan.
Naglab-ot naman sa 18 ka firetrucks ang nagresponde tubtob nga napatay ang kalayo.
4 patay matapos gin-arado sang awto sa sidewalk
Apat ka tawo ang patay matapos nabungguan sang awto sa sidewalk sa Angono, Rizal.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nadulaan sang preno ang salakyan sa dulhugon nga bahin sang karsada kag nagdiretso sa isa ka bakery.
Nadalasa sini ang magnobyo nga rider kag backrider kag ang nagapungko nga tigulang nga babaye kag duha ka solterito.
Tatlo sa nabungguan ang naipit sa bumper sang awto.
Nalakip sa napatay ang 23-anyos nga rider kag 26- anyos nga backrider, ang 15 anyos nga solterito kag ang isa ka palaboy.
Napilasan naman ang isa ka 13-anyos nga solterito.
Arestado naman ang 66-anyos nga babaye nga driver kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in multiple homicide kag serious physical injuries.
Janitress, ginpatay sang iya bana sa atubang sang ila kabataan
Patay ang isa ka janitress matapos ginbuno sang iya bana sa sulod sang compound sang isa ka eskwelahan sa Saranggani.
Ang bikima amo si alyas “Grace”, 40-anyos.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, hinali lang nga nag-abot ang suspek nga akig kag ginbuno ang asawa sa dughan.
Nakit-an mismo sang ila kabataan ang ginhimo sang ila amay sa ila iloy.
Gindala sa ospital ang biktima apang wala gid nakaluwas.
Ginalantaw nga pagpangimon ang motibo sa krimen.
Mag-asawa nga missing, nasapwan patay sa sulod sang sako
Nakit-an na lang sa sulod sang sako kag wala na sang kabuhi ang maga-asawa sa Cabanatuan City.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Romeo Delos Trinos, 65 kag asawa nga si Mely, 55, mga residente sang Gen.
Lima ka adlaw nga missing ang mga biktima antes nakit-an sa irrigation canal sang nagreklamo ang mga residente tuhoy sa malangsa nga baho kag didto na nadiskubrehan ang ila mga bangkay.
Ulihi nga nakit-an nga sakay ang mag-asawa sa ila angkar-angkar.
Narekober naman ang amo nga angkar-angkar apang wala na sang side mirror kag plaka.
Nahibaluan man nga sa Saudi Arabia nagatrabaho ang anak sang mga biktima.
Wala gid nakaluwas ang isa ka konsehal sang barangay matapos gintiro sang wala pa makilala nga tawo sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si Ryan Chavez, 42-anyos, ka naga-jogging sang gintiro ini sang lalaki nga sakay sa motorsiklo.
Nagatalikod ang biktima sang gintiro ini kag nag-angkon sang madamo nga igo sang bala.
Madasig ini nga gindala sa ospital sang mga residente apang gindeklarar nga dead on arrival.
Nursing student, patay matapos nag-inom sang ecstasy
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka 21-anyos nga nursing student matapos nga nag-inom sang illegal ecstasy drugs sa General Santos City.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagkadto sa on the job (OJT) training sa Davao sang Pebrero 7-21 ang babaye nga biktima apang nakaeksperyensiya ini sang seizures kag hallucination gani nabalaka ang iya nga pamilya.
Gindul-ong ini pauli sang iya nobyo nga si Adrian.
Samtang yara sa ila balay, naglain ang batasan kag hulag sang dalaga kag masami nagasinggit kag ginamitlang ang tinaga nga ecstasy.
Matapos ang pila ka adlaw, nagluya ini tubtob nga napatay.
Duda sang iloy sang biktima, ginpainom ini sang ecstasy sang iya nobyo kag mga abyan.
Nangayo naman sang bulig sa otoridad ang pamilya agud mapaidalom sa autopsy ang biktima kag mahibaluan kun ano gid ang rason sa kamatayon sini.
Halos nabatok gid ang lawas sang tatlo ka tuig nga bata nga babaye nga na-trap sa sulod sang nasunog nga balay sa Cabubugan, Guimbal, Iloilo subong nga hapon, Marso 11, 2026.
Ginpahayag nga tulog ang bata sang ginlamon sang kalayo ang ila nga balay.
Suno sa mga residente, gintinguhaan pa nila nga salbaron ang bata apang bangud sa tuman ka dako na sang kalayo, wala na nila makuha ang biktima.
Sa impormasyon nga nakuha sang Bombo Radyo, nagtambong sa isa ka meeting ang iloy sang bata.
Ginaimbestigaran pa ang ginhalinan sang kalayo.
4 patay sa bungguanay sang wing van truck kag motorsiklo
Apat ang patay kag duha ang pilason sa bungguanay sang wing van truck kag motorsiklo sa Sitio Maaslom, Barangay Busay, Cebu City.
Ang motorsiklo may yara sang tatlo ka sakay samtang ang wing van may tatlo man ka sakay.
Sa imbestigasyon, pataklad ang motorsiklo sang nadulaan sang kontrol ang nagapadulhog nga wing van kag nagkadto sa piyak nga lane kag didto na nagbunggo sa motorsiklo.
Patay ang tanan nga sakay sang motorsiklo samtang gindeklarar man nga dead on arrival ang driver sang wing van.
Kritikal naman ang kondisyon sang duha pa ka sakay sang wing van.
Nagapadayon naman ang imbestigasyon sa amo nga aksidente.
Wala na nakasalbar ang isa ka hiker matapos nahulog sa pil-as sa Tarao Cliff sa Palawan.
Ang biktima amo si Mark Louie Torrente, residente sang Puerto Princesa City sa amo nga probinsya.
Suno sa mga otoridad, ginbawian sang kabuhi ang biktima bangud sa dako nga mga pilas nga naangkon sini.
Ginpahayag sang mga katapo sang Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) Puerto Princesa nga nangin mabudlay ang pagrekober sa lawas sang biktima bangud sa mabudlay nga alagyan.
Ginahibalo pa kun paano nahulog ang amo nga lalaki.
Mag-utod, 3 ka tuig nga ginhimuslan sang ila lolo
Gindakop sang otoridad ang 55-anyos nga lolo bangud sa sulit-sulit ngA pag-abuso sekswal sa iya duha ka menor de edad nga apo.
Suno sa otoridad, natabo ang pagpanghimulos sang suspek humalin sang 2021 tubtob 2024 sa Marikina City.
Ang suspek amo si alyas “Jun” kag yara sa most wanted list bangud sa 14 ka counts sang rape.
Nabuyagyag lang ang krimen nga ginhimo sini sa mga bata matapos nagpanugid ang isa sa mga biktima sa iya manunudlo kag mga ginikanan gani gilayon nga ginreklamo ang suspek kag nakapagwa sang warrant ang korte.
Wala sang ginrekomendar nga piyansa sa suspek.
2 ka ginapahayag LGBTQIA+ members, ginpatay sang ginapatihan ‘callboy’
Nasapwan nga patay ang duha ka ginapahayag nga mga miyembro sang LGBTQIA+ sa Quezon City.
Ang mga biktima nga may mga igo sang bala sa ulo amo sanday alyas “Jeco”, 30 kag alyas “BJ”, 33.
Nakit-an ang ila lawas sa Dike Pathway ­Riverview, Brgy.
Suno sa isa ka testigo, ulihi niya nakit-an ang mga biktima nga kaupod ang isa ka ginapatihan nga ‘callboy’.
Suno sa testigo, liwat niya nakit-an ang amo nga lalaki nga daw indi mapahamtang.
Sang ginpangita sang testigo ang mga biktima, didto na niya nakit-an ang mga duguon nga lawas sang mga ini.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon kag pagpangita sa suspek.
Grade 10 student, nasapwan patay sa eskwelahan
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka Grade 10 student sa ikaapat nga panalgan sang isa ka public school sa Taguig City.
Ang biktima isa ka lalaki, nagaedad sang 16-anyos, kag residente sang Brgy.
Nagapatigayon na sang maid-id nga imbestigasyon ang otoridad sa gintunaan sang kamatayon sang biktima.
Bully nga hinablos, patay matapos gintiro sang tiyo
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka hinablos matapos gintiro sang tiyo gamit ang armalite sa isa ka mosque sa Datu Odin Sinsuat (DOS), Maguindanao del Norte.
Base sa imbestigasyon, gin-bully sang 20-anyos nga biktima nga si alyas “Benzar” ang iya 31-anyos nga tiyo nga si Polo Lindongan kag ginbastos pa ang Islamic “adhan” rite sa mosque.
Nagagwa nga masami ginahikayan sang hinablos ang tiyo bangud indi sini masaulo ang periodical recital sang adhan, ang Islamic call to prayer.
Bangud nga nainsulto ang suspek, nagkuha ini sang armalite kag pagbalik sa mosque, didto na sini gintiro ang biktima.
Boluntaryo naman ini nga nagsungka sa otoridad.
Base naman sa pahayag sang mga nakakilala sa biktima, bastos kag dungol ini.
1 ka tuig nga bata, patay matapos nabungguan sang dump truck
Patay ang isa ka tuig nga bata nga babaye matapos mabungguan sang dump truck sa Sitio Lasco, Barangay Lagtang, Talisay City, Cebu.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sakay ang biktima kaupod ang iya iloy sa motorsiklo nga ginamaneho sang amay sang bata.
Ginpahayag nga sang nag-andar ang dump truck, wala nakit-an sang driver nga may nagadalagan nga motorsiklo sa kilid.
Didto na nagsagaid ang truck sa motorsiklo kag natumba ini nga nagresulta sa pagtabog sang bata kag nagtupa sa idalom sang truck kag nabungguan gid.
Nag-angkon sang pilas sa ulo ang bata nga ginhingagaw pa dala sa ospital apang gindeklarar nga dead on arrival.
Gindakop naman ang driver sang truck kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in homicide.
Arestado ang isa ka school principal kag duha pa ka mga indibidwal sa buy-bust ­operation sa isa ka drug den sa Barangay Central, Davao Or*ental.
Ang nadakpan nga public school principal amo si alyas “Jay”.
Ang iban pa gid nga naaresto amo si alyas “Nene”, 44-an­yos, nga ginakabig nga maintainer sang drug den kag si alyas “John”.
Narekober kay Nene ang kapin P50,000 ng balor sang iligal nga druga.
Pasakaan sang kaso nga paglapas sa Republic Act 9165 ukon Comprehensive ­Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002 ang mga arestado.
Board member nga may kaso nga estafa, nagsungka sa otoridad sa Pampanga
Nagsungka sa opisina ni Pampanga Vice Governor Dennis “Delta” Pineda ang isa ka board member nga nagapangatubang sang kaso nga estafa nga wala sang piyansa.
Ini amo si Pampanga Board Member Estelito Lim.
Ginturn-over man gilayon ni Pineda si Lim kay Col.
Nahibaluan nga nagsungka si Lim matapos nag-isyu sang warrant of arrest ang Regional Trial Court (RTC) Branch 44 sang San Fernando City, Pampanga batok sa opisyal.
Siyam ka kaso sang estafa ang ginapangatubang ni Lim kag wala sang piyansa.
Nag-ugat ang kaso sa kapaslawan ni Lim nga ibalik ang kapital kag interes sa mga nag-invest sa iya mga negosyo.
Natukiban man nga indi ini lisensyado sa Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) para mangkolekta sang kwarta para mag-invest sa iya.
Dalagita, patay matapos ginkastigo sang iya amay
Wala gid natabangan ang isa ka 17-anyos nga dalagita matapos ginlampusan sang tubo kag ginkastigo sang iya amay sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Michelle” samtang ang suspek naman amo si alyas “Greg”, 49-anyos.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagapangayo sang tabang ang biktima apang ginkandaduhan sang suspek ang pwertahan rason nga wala nakasulod ang mga kaingod-balat agud buligan ang biktima.
Sang nagresponde ang kapulisan, wala na sang pangalibutan kag duguon ang dalagita gani gindala ini sa ospital apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Ginapatihan nga nagsuprir sang depresyon ang suspek bangud suno sa mga nakakilala sa iya, pila ka adlaw na ini nga wala nagatulog kag indi mapahamtang.
Mag-utod nga sakay sa motor, patay matapos gindalasa sang van
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang menor de edad nga mag-utod matapos nabungguan sang van ang ila ginasakyan nga motorsiklo.
Natabo ang insidente sa Barangay Adaon sa Datu Anggal Midtimbang, Maguindanao del Sur.
Ang mga biktima amo ang babaye nga 16-anyos kag ang iya nga manghod nga Grade 2 pupil.
Yara naman sa kustodiya sang otoridad ang driver sang van nga si Ernie Cabasag Yuag, 52-anyos sang Cotabato City.
Iloy kag 3 ka menor nga kabataan, 5 ka adlaw gin-hostage bangud sa away sa duta
Lima ka adlaw nga gin-hostage sang mga armado nga mga lalaki ang isa ka iloy kag ang tatlo ka niya ka menor de edad nga kabataan sa Barangay Cupang, Antipolo City, Rizal.
Ginpahayag nga Marso 2 pa sang gin-hostage sang mga suspek ang mga biktima kag naluwas sila makaligad ang lima ka adlaw.
Sa panaysayon sang nasambit nga iloy nga si alyas “Lanie”, nag-abot sa ila balay ang apat ka mga suspek nga may dala nga binangon kag ginpahog nga patyon ang mga ini.
Ginkandaduhan sang mga suspek ang balay gani wala nakagwa ang mga biktima sa sulod sang lima ka adlaw.
Isa ka concerned citizen ang nag-report sa otoridad paagi sa E-Sumbong platform sang Philippine National Police (PNP) sang Marso 7.
Diri na kag ginplano ang rescue operation kag naluwas ang mga biktima.
Natigayon naman nga maaresto ang mga suspek nga mangatubang sang kaso nga paglapas sa Article 267 sang Revised Penal Code ukon illegal detention kag paglapas sa Republic Act 7610 ukon Child Abuse Act.
Babaye nga nagabusong, ginhatok-hatok buno sang lalaki nga may diperensya sa paminsaron
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka 23- anyos nga nagabusong nga babaye matapos ginhatok-hatok buno samtang nagakatulog sa sulod sang ila balay sa Badoc, Ilocos Norte.
Ang suspek amo ang tupad-balay sini nga may diperensya sa paminsaron.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, naglabay sa balay sang biktima nga si “Tin” ang 33-anyos nga suspek nga si alyas “Boy” kag sang nakit-an sini nga bukas ang pwertahan, nagkuha ini sang kutsilyo sa kusina kag nagsulod sa kwarto sang biktima.
Didto na sini ginhimo ang krimen nga gintunaan sang kamatayon sang biktima nga apat ka bulan pa lang nga nagabusong.
Natigayon naman nga madakpan ang suspek.
Mga opisyal sa Bakhaw, Mandurriao, ‘ilisipon lang’ ang nagakooperar sa mga pulis sa mga drug buy bust —CDEU
Ilisipon na lang suno sa City Drug Enforcement Unit (CDEU) ang mga opisyal sang Barangay Bakhaw, Mandurriao, Iloilo City ang naga-kooperar sa mga pulis kaangot sa mga ginapatigayon nga drug buy bust operation.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Roque Gimeno III, officer-in-charge sang CDEU, iya ginpahayag nga wala siya nakahibalo kun nahuya ukon nahadlok ang barangay officials, apang nagapang-alang-alang ang mga ini nga magbulig.
Pahayag ni Gimeno, mabudlay sudlon ang amo nga barangay, apang daku nga suporta sa ila bahin ang civilian informants.
Indi na bag-o ang Bakhaw sa pamatin-an sang taga-syudad kun buy bust ang hambalan suno kay Roque, ilabi na nga ang nadakpan sa iban nga operasyon, nagatudlo man sa amo nga barangay nga amo ang ila source.
Lakip sa latest operations sang pulis sa Barangay Bakhaw amo ang natabo subong nga Marso nga pagdakop sa anum ka mga suspek nga yara sa balay sang main target sang drug buy bust.
Nakuha sa ila ang suspected shabu nga may balor P952,000.
Sang hingapusan sang Pebrero, may mag-utod man nga construction worker kag passenger assistant officer nga nadakpan sa amo nga barangay kun sa diin nakumpiskar ang P1.9-million nga balor sang ginapasuni shabu.#
Sinemana ang intense surveillance nga ginhimo kasunod sang community tips kag bulig man sang RPSB Bakhaw.#
Senior high, patay sa nagtalang nga bala
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka 19-anyos nga senior high school student matapos maigo sang nagtalang nga bala sa Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (BARMM).
Base sa imbestigasyon, may engkwentro sa tunga sang duha ka dalagko nga mga pamilya, kag sa malain nga palad, naigo sang bala ang estudyante nga si Nadia Haron Ebad, residente sang Brgy, Damatulan, Nabalawag sa Special Geographic Area sang rehiyon.
Ginpahayag nga ma-evacuate kuntani sila agud makalikaw sa ginamo apang sang may ginkuha ini sa ila balay, didto na siya naigo sang bala.
Wala pa gilayon narekober ang iya bangkay kag ginhulat anay nga mag-untat ang tiniruhay antes siya nakadtuan sa area kun diin siya napatay.
Gilayon naman ini nga ginlubong bilang pagsunod sa tradisyon sang mga Muslim nga kinahanglan malubong ini sa sulod sang 24 oras.
DPWH engineer, gintiro sang bana nga suldado
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka babaye nga engineer sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) matapos gintiro sang iya bana nga suldado.
Jerome Luz Tejero nga aktibo nga myembro sang 8th Infantry Division sang Philippine Army.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon apang ang ginasundan nga anggulo amo ang pagpangimon.
Babaye nga manunudlo nga sakay sa motor, patay matapos nabungguan sang truck
Wala gid nakaluwas ang babaye nga manunudlo matapos gin-arado sang truck ang ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sa Brgy.
Pilason naman ang utod sini nga nagamaneho sang motorsiklo.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagadalagan ang motorsiklo sang hinali lang nga ginbungguan sang nagahagunos nga Canter truck.
Arestado naman ang 66-anyos nga driver sang truck kag gin-isyuhan sang show-cause order sang Land Transportation Office (LTO) kag posible nga mabawian sang lisensya.
Former chief of police kag isa ka kaupod, patay sa ambush
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka retirado nga chief of police kag isa pa ka kaupod sini matapos gin-ambush sang riding-in-tandem nga mga suspek sa Datu Montawal, Maguindanao del Sur.
Ang napatay nga pulis amo si Elias Dandan nga assigned sadto sa Pikit Municipal Police Station (MPS) sa Cotabato.
Ang isa pa nga napatay amo si Raymund Bioy.
Kalawag, Pikit, Cotabato ang mga biktima.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sakay sa pickup truck ang duha sang ginpaulanan sang bala sang mga suspek antes nalagyo.
Gindala pa sang mga responders ang mga biktima sa ospital apang gindeklarar nga dead-on-arrival.
Maritime student, ginbawian sang kabuhi bangud sa hazing
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka maritime student matapos nangin biktima sang hazing sa General Trias, Cavite.
Ang biktima amo si Kenneth Alcedo, 19-anyos, kag 1st year student sa kurso nga BS Maritime Transportation.
Nakit-an sa lawas sang biktima ang mga senyales nga ginpaidalom ini sa hazing bangod nga nag-itom ang iya bibig, nabingaw ang iya ngipon, kag nagadugo ang iya mga kuko.
Ginpahayag nga may nakit-an man nga katumbal sa pribado nga parte sang lawas sini.
Suno sa pamilya sang biktima, naglisensya ini nga malagaw siya kaupod ang iya mga classmates.
Apang wala ini nakapauli sa natalana nga oras tubtob nga ginpahibalo sa ila nga yara ini sa ospital.
Ginpahayag nga gindala ini sang tatlo ka mga lalaki sa balay-bululngan.
Base sa panaysayon sang mga lalaki, nabungguan sang salakyan ang biktima gani gindala nila ini sa ospital kag gilayon nga nagbiya.
Padayon pa nga ginapangita ang tatlo ka mga lalaki.
Chief tanod, ginpatay sa sulod sang barangay hall
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang chief tanod sa sulod sang barangay hall sa Pinapu­gasan Proper sa Escalante City, Negros Occidental.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Eduardo”, 61-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagsulod ang anom ka mga armado nga kalalakihan kag gintiro ang biktima.
Yara man ang iban nga tanod sang natabo ang insidente apang sa maayo nga palad, wala sila ginhilabtan sang mga suspek.
Madasig nga nalagyo ang mga suspek kag gintaban ang handheld radio sang napatay nga tanod.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sa insidente.
Bata nga ginbakol sang lola, nagturong ang mata
Nagturong ang mata sang isa ka walo ka bulan nga lapsag matapos ginbakol sang iya lola sa Camarines Sur.
Suno sa impormasyon, naospital ang bata matapos ginkombulsyon kasunod sang pagbakol sang iya lola bangud nga wala ini nagauntat sa paghibi.
Nag-angkon ini sang mga lagob sa lawas kag ginabulong subong sa ospital.
Nagagwa sa imbestigasyon nga wala ang ginikanan sang bata sang natabo ang insidente.
Ginaimbestigaran na sang otoridad ang lola sang bata.
Massacre: Mag-asawa kag ila anak, ginpatay sa ila balay
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang tatlo ka myembro sang pamilya sa Barangay Bolong, Zamboanga City matapos ginsulod sang mga armado nga mga lalaki ang ila balay kag ginpangluthang ang mga ini.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Rodel Tarroza Espinosa, 44, ang iya asawa nga si Jenny Enriquez Espinosa, 43, kag ila dalag nga anak nga 19-anyos.
Ginpahayag nga pagsulod sang mga suspek, ginpaarakan luthang ang tatlo.
Padayon subong nga ginapangita sang mga kapulisan kag mga militar ang mga suspek.
Massacre: Tigulang nga negosyante, driver, kag timbang, patay
Tatlo ang ginbawian sang kabuhi sa natabo nga massacre sa Brgy.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Romulo ­Sangalang, 82, negosyante, kag residente sang Mabalacat, ­Pampanga; Theodore Sangalang, driver, residente sang Guimba, Nueva Ecija;kag kabulig nga si Rose Yuson, residente sang Brgy.
Ginpahayag nga ginsulod sang mga armado nga lalaki ang mga biktima sa ila quarters kag ginpangluthang kag ginpangbuno.
Nakit-an ang lawas sang negosyante nga may higot nga alambre sa liog kag tiil; nakagapos naman ang kamot kag may igo sang bala sa ulo ang driver; kag may mga igo man sang bala ang kabulig.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad sa amo nga hitabo.
Suldado nga AWOL kag amay sini, arestado bangud sa pagpanghimulos
Preso ang isa ka anay suldado nga nag-AWOL kag amay sini nga madugay na nga may standing warrant of arrest bangud sa kaso sang pagpanghimulos kag pagmolestiya sa menor de edad nga himata sa Quezon City.
Ang mga arestado amo ang anay suldado nga 34-anyos kag amay nga 64-anyos.
Ang ila biktima ang hinablos man lang sang suldado kag nagaedad pa lang sang 10 ka tuig ang bata sang natabo ang pagpangmolestiya sang 2018 tubtob nga nasulit pa gid ini sang pila ka beses tubtob sang 2023.
Natultulan ang mag-amay sa Barangay Santor sa Bongabon, Nueva Ecija.
Kaso nga 4 counts sang acts of lasciviousness, 5 counts sang sexual assault ang ginapangatubang sang anay suldado.
Qualified rape, 5 counts sang acts of lasciviousness, kag 3 counts sang sexual assault naman ang ginapangatubang sang amay.
Michelle Dee, nagsubmit sang supplemental affidavit agud maghinyo sang red notice sa Interpol batok sa social media personality nga si Xian Gaza
Nagsubmit sang supplemental affidavit ang beauty queen kag aktres nga si Michelle Dee batok sa social media personality nga si Xian Gaza suno sa iya legal team, agud nga maghinyo sa International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) sang red notice para sa kay Gaza.
Ang Interpol red notice ay isa ka request sa mga law enforcement sa bilog nga kalibutan agud sagapon kag temporary nga arestuhon ang isa ka tawo samtang nagahulat sang extradition ukon iban pa nga mga legal nga proseso.
Paathag sang abogado ni Dee nga si Atty.
Maggie Abraham-Garduque, kun magbalik si Xian sa Pilipinas kag may existing warrant of arrest na, sarang ini nga arestuhon.
Kun yara naman ini sa iban nga pungsod, possible ini nga maaresto sang Interpol.
Dugang pa sini nga ang nasambit nga lihok ang maay kaangtanan sa mga post ni Xian sa social media nga ginakabig bilang nilang defamatory kag malicious batok kay Michelle.
Antes sini, nakabatubn man si Michelle sang subpoena humalin sa National Bureau of Investigation, nga ila man pagasundon.
Si Razalan ang nagapungko nga supervisor samtang commander naman ang Deputy Provincial Director for Operations.
Manyak nga teacher, ginbaligya online ang videos sa pagmolestiya sa iya mga estudyante
Arestado ang isa ka 48-anyos nga junior high school teacher matapos matukiban sang otoridad ang mga sensitibo nga videos nga ginabaligya sini online.
Sa amo nga videos makit-an ang pagmolestiya niya sa mga solterito nga estudyante sa Cavite.
Suno sa otoridad, nadiskubre nila ang 32 ka mga videos kun sa diin makit-an ang sekswal nga pag-abuso niya sa mga estudyante.
Ginpahayag nga ginahatagan niya sang kwarta ang mga biktima nga menor de edad kabaylo sang iya pagtandog sa ila.
Matapos nadiskubre, gilayon nga nakig-angot ang kapulisan sa National Center for Mis­sing and Exploited Children kag Interpol Child Sexual Exploitation Database kag didto nakit-an ang mga videos.
Sa subong, preso na ang manunudlo kag pasakaan sang kaso nga paglapas sa Anti-Online Sexual Abuse or Exploitation of Children Act kag Anti-Child Sexual Abuse or Exploitation Materials Act sa idalom sang Cybercrime Prevention Act.
Ginpaidalom naman sa psychosocial intervention kag counseling ang mga biktima.
Mangunguma kag karabaw sini, ginbawian kabuhi matapos nakuryente
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka mangunguma kag karabaw sini matapos makuryente sa talamnan sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Turning”, 67-anyos, residente sang Brgy.
Naggwa sa imbestiga­syon nga nagtapik ang higot sang karabaw sa submersible water pump, rason nga nakuryente ang karabaw.
Sang nagkadto sa lugar ang tigulang, iya ginpalapitan ang karabaw gani siya ang nakuryente man.
Wala naman sang nakit-an nga foul play sa insidente.
Babaye nga manunudlo, gindakop bangud sa child abuse
Arestado ang isa ka public school teacher sa Dagupan City bangud sa kaso nga child abuse.
Suno sa otoridad, ang ginaalegar nga pag-abuso ang natabo sa barangay kag indi sa eskwelahan.
Yara na ini sa kustodiya sang Dagupan City Police.
Gintugutan man ini makapiyansa sang P80,000 para sa iya temporaryo nga kahilwayan.
Hugot naman nga ginpanginwala sang amo nga manunudlo ang akusasyon.
Wala na gindetalye sang otoridad ang kaso bilang paghatag proteksyon sa bata nga involved.
Public school teacher, arestado bangud sa pagbaligya sang shabu
Arestado ang isa ka manunudlo nga ginakabig nga notoryus nga drug pusher sa ginpatigayon nga buy bust operation sa Loreto, Agusan del Sur.
Ang subject amo si alyas “Eph-Eph”, 34-anyos, residente sang Brgy.
Antes ang operasyon, nakabaton sang impormasyon ang otoridad tuhoy sa iligal nga aktibidad sang amo ng public school teacher.
Nakuha sa iya ang kapin P8000 nga balor sang iligal nga druga.
Magapangatubang ini sa kaso nga paglapas sa Comprehensive Anti-Dange­rous Drugs Act of 2002.
Nakit-an ang isa ka lapsag nga nasulod sa isa ka labador sa kilid sang sapa sa Ramon, Isabela.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nabatian sang mga residente nga may lapsag nga nagahibi sa sapa kag sang ila ginpalapitan, isa ka lapsag ang ila nakit-an.
Nakaputos ini sa punda sang ulunan kag yara pa ang pusod sini.
Madasig naman nga gindala sa health center ang lapsag agud mahatagan sang atensyon-medikal.
Ginahibalo pa kun sin-o ang ginikanan sang lapsag.
Barangay kapitan kag hinablos, patay sa ambush
Patay ang isa ka barangay kapitan kag ang iya hinablos samtang pilason naman ang iya asawa nga konsehal kag duha ka iban pa matapos gin-ambush sa Bangued, Abra.
Ang mga napatay amo si Ezequiel Castañeda Parado, 35-anyos, kapitan sang Brgy.
Collago, Lagayan, kag hinablos nga si Arlene Dorias.
Ang mga pilason amo ang asawa sang kapitan nga si Ailyn S.
Parado nga isa ka miyembro sang Sangguniang ­Bayan sang Lagayan; Edron Salingbay, driver; kag Jaypee Soliba Gacayan, 38.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ginbanggaan sang mga armado nga kalalakihan ang ila convoy kag ginpaarakan luthang ang mga ini.
Padayon ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad sa amo nga krimen.
Soltero, ginbuno-patay sang PWD nga iya gin-bully
Patay ang isa ka 18-anyos nga soltero matapos ginbuno ini sang PWD nga iya gin-bully sa Pamplona, Camarines Sur.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Par” samtang ang suspek naman amo si alyas “Raffy”, 17-anyos, kag may yara sang psychological disability ukon kakulangan sa husto nga paminsaron.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ginpalapitan sang biktima ang suspek kag ginsunlod niya ini.
Nangakig ang suspek kag nag-inaway ang mga ini.
Didto na nagkuha ang suspek sang kutsilyo kag ginbuno sa dughan ang biktima.
Gintinguhaan pa nga madala sa ospital ang biktima apang wala na matabangan pa.
Gindakop naman ang suspek kag ginkustodiya sang Municipal Social Welfare and Development Office.
Graduating college student, gin-gulgulan liog sa iya boarding house
Nasapwan nga patay kag may gulgol sa liog ang isa ka graduating college student sa sulod sang iya boardinghouse sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si Bhea Yna Balus, 23-anyos.
Estudyante ini sa Liceo de Cagayan University, kaga yara na sa 4th year sa kurso nga BS Management Accounting.
Nakit-an ang bangkay sini matapos nga nagpanimaho.
May duha na ka persons of interest nga ginasundan ang otoridad.
3 patay sa pagbunggo sang van sa motorsiklo
Patay ang tatlo ka mga tawo matapos nabungguan sang van ang isa ka motorsiklo sa Brgy.
Kalakip sa napatay amo ang driver sang motorsiklo, iya backrider, kag ang driver sang van.
Ginpahayag nga hubog ang driver sang van kag tuman ka dasig ang dalagan sang salakyan.
Pareho nga gindala sa ospital ang mga biktima apang wala na natabangan pa.
Kalaslon nga manunudlo patay, nobyo pilason sa aksidente
Patay ang isa ka babaye nga manunudlo samtang pilason naman ang iya nobyo matapos nga nagbunggo ang ila ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sa isa ka kotse sa Calamba, Laguna.
Ang napatay amo si Crislyn Paro, 27-anyos, nagatudlo sa Liceo de Calamba, kag residente sang Palingon, Calamba City.
Ang pilason nga nobyo amo si Miguel Ocampo, 26-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, samtang nagadalagan ang motorsiklo, hinali lang nga nagtabok ang isa ka kotse sa interseksyon rason nga natabo ang bungguanay.
Sa kabaskog sang bungguanay, nagtabog gid ang duha ka biktima kag naglampos sa semento.
Nagtabog man ang suksok nga helmet sang duha bangud sa impact.
Natalana kuntani nga kaslon ang duha sa Abril 21.
Yara na sa kustodiya sang kapulisan ang 32-anyos nga driver sang kotse kag mangatubang sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in homicide, physical injuries kag damage to property.
Lalaki nga nagakuha sang video sa komosyon, patay matapos matiruhan
Patay ang isa kag lalaki matapos gintiro samtang ginakuhaan sang video ang isa ka komosyon sa isa ka solar farm sa General Tinio, Nueva Ecija.
Nag-ugat ang insidente bangud lang sa reklamo sa mapangsot nga banyo sa lugar.
Ang biktima, nga nagaserbe nga installer sang solar panels, ang naigo sang bala sa tiyan kag batiis samtang naga-record sang komprontasyon sa tunga sang iya nga grupo kag sang grupo sang suspek nga mga subcontractor sa proyekto.
Sa tunga sang ginamo, nabatian pa sa video ang pagsinggit sang biktima nga nagapangayo sang bulig nga dal-on siya sa ospital matapos natiruhan.
Nadala pa ini sa ospital sa General Tinio, apang ginbawian sang kabuhi samtang ginasaylo sa ospital sa Cabanatuan City.
Suno kay General Tinio Police Chief Shariel Paulino, nagagwa sa imbestigasyon kag pahayag sang mga testigo nga ang grupo sang biktima ang una nga nagpalapit kag nagsita sa grupo sang suspek, nga nagtuga sang kakulba sa bahin sang suspek gani nagkuha ini sang pusil.
Matapos ang pagpangluthang, madasig nga nalagyo ang suspek gamit ang isa ka pickup vehicle.
Padayon pa ang manhunt operation sang kapulisan sa suspek nga mangatubang sang kaso nga murder.
Lalaki, nasapwan patay kag may dako nga pilas sa liog sa Alimodian
Patay na sang nasapwan ang isa ka lalaki sa Barangay Balabago, Alimodian, Iloilo.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Marvin, 48-anyos, residente sang Barangay Sinamay sa amo nga banwa.
Ginpahayag nga may ginasuprir ini nga nervous breakdown.
Base sa inisyal nga impormasyon, may dako nga pilas sa liog ang lalaki.
Nakit-an man malapit sa bangkay ang isa ka espading.
Padayon pa subong ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad kun ginpatay ang biktima ukon hungod ini nga nagpanginmatay.
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi kag nalubong sa manabaw nga buho ang isa ka vlogger sa Tayabas City, Quezon.
Ang biktima amo si Mark Anthony Atienza, 39-anyos, kag kilala sa tawag nga “Macoy” sa iya nga vlog.
Nakutkutan ang iya bangkay sa maligwin nga porsyon sang lugar.
Ulihi nga nakit-an nga buhi ang vlogger sang naglisensya ini sa iya nga asawa nga maupod ini sa isak a fishing trip sa Alitao River sa ­Barangay Lalo.
Sang nakit-an ang iya bangkay, nakagapos ang mga kamot sini, naputos sa tela ang ulo, kag may tabon ang bibig.
Padayon pa ang im­bestigasyon sang otoridad sa amo nga krimen.
3 ka estudyante, patay matapos mabungguan sang 2 ka trucks ang tricycle
Patay ang tatlo ka Grade 7 students matapos mabungguan sang duha ka trucks ang ila ginasakyan nga tricycle sa Kapalawan, Cotabato.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Ghoyghoy Andres, Koking Silva kag Wako Alburo, lunsay menor de edad kag mga residente sang Poblacion Carmen, Cotabato.
Padulong sa Poblacion Carmen ang tricycle sang mabungguan ini sang nasugata nga six-wheeler truck.
Pagtabog sang tricycle, nabungguan pa gid ini sang isa ka ten-wheeler truck.
Nagtalabog ang mga bata sa karsada nga lunsay dead on the spot.
Nag-angkon naman sang pilas ang driver sang tricycle.
Nagsungka naman sa otoridad ang mga drivers sang duha ka trucks.
Dakop sa isa ka drug buybust operation nga ginpatigayon sang Iloilo City Police Station 10 sa Brgy.
San Rafael, Mandurriao ang isa ka ginpahayag street level individual.
Ginkilala ang subject kay Alyas Mario, isa ka tricycle driver kag residente sang San Pedro, Jaro.
Lester Oliveros, Officer-in-charge sang Police Station 10, iya ginpahayag nga posible nga ginagamit lang ang subject sang mas dalagko nga mga drug personalities.
Base man sa ila imbestigasyon, ginapaagi pa sang mga manugbakal ang ila bayad sa isa ka online payment.
Gin-ako man ni Alyas Mario nga masami sa Brgy.
Bakhaw ang ginahalinan sang supply sang iya droga.
Nahibaluan nga yara sa 2 grams ang nakumpiskar nga droga kun sa diin may standard drug price ini nga P13,000.
Rider kag iya apo, patay matapos nabungguan sang trailer truck
Patay ang isa ka 55-anyos nga rider kag ang iya angkas nga 11-anyos nga apo matapos mabungguan sang trailer truck ang ila ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sa Cagayan de Oro City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, may isa ka motorsiklo nga una nga nakabunggo sa mga biktima.
Bangud sini, nagkadto sa pihak nga lane ang ila motorsiklo kag didto na nabungguan ini sang truck.
Ginkustodiya naman sang otoridad ang driver sang truck.
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang isa ka lapsag matapos ginlubong nga buhi sang iya iloy sa kamaisan sa Bayambang, Pangasinan.
Ang suspek isa ka 32-anyos nga security guard.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ang tag-iya sang kamaisan ang nakakita sang porsyon nga ginkutkutan kag sang ila ginkuha ang duta, nakit-an ang plastic bag nga may unod nga lapsag nga bag-o ginbun-ag.
Nagaginhawa pa ini rason nga madasig nga gindala sa ospital apang napatay gid.
Natigayon naman nga maaresto ang suspek.
7 ka bulan nga lapsag kag 3-anyos nga bata, ginbuno-patay sang ila iloy
Patay ang mag-utod nga pito ka bulan nga lapsag kag tatlo ka tuig nga bata matapos ginbuno sang ila kaugalingon nga iloy sa ila balay sa Purok-5, Brgy.
Magsaysay, Nabunturan, Davao de Oro, subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 17.
Gin-ako mismo sang suspek sa iya amay nga ginpatay sini ang duha ka bata samtang nagakatulog.
Pagkatapos sang krimen, ginbuno man sini ang iya kaugalingon.
Ginpahayag man nga antes ang krimen, nagbaisay ang suspek kag ang iya bana.
Suno sa otoridad, posible nga nagsuprir sang postpartum depression ang suspek nga naka-hospital arrest subong.
Posible naman nga mangatubang sang kaso nga duha ka counts sang parricide ang nasambit nga iloy.
Iloy, gintago sa freezer ang 2 ka patay nga lapsag
Arestado ang isa ka iloy matapos gintago niya sa freezer ang duha ka lapsag nga kaugalingon man niya nga mga anak sa Eastern France.
Base sa report, mismo ang isa sa mga anak sang suspek ang nakadiskubre sang patay nga mga lapsag sa sulod sang freezer.
Gilayon man sini nga ginpahibalo sa otoridad ang natabo gani naaresto ang suspek.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga gin-ako mismo sang suspek nga ginpatay niya ang duha ka lapsag matapos gintago sini sa iya pamilya ang iya pagbusong.
Suno sa suspek, una niya nga ginbun-ag sang 2011 ang lapsag samtang sang 2018 naman niya ginbun-ag ang isa.
Ginpaidalom na sa autopsy ang mga lapsag para mahibaluan ang matuod nga rason sang ila kamatayon.
Nagapangatubang naman ini sang kaso nga infanticide.
Bangud sa LQ, nobyo gintuyo sunugon ang boardinghouse sang nobya
Diutayan lang nga maabo ang isa ka boardinghouse matapos ginbubuan sang gasolina sang nobya nga naka-LQ (lover’s quarrel) ang iya nobya.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagkadto ang nobyo sa boardinghouse sang iya nobya kag ginbubuan sang gasolina ang dingding, salog kag iban pa nga parte sang balay.
Wala naman natigayon nga masindihan sang lalaki ang balay bangud nakit-an ini sang isa ka bata gani naalarma kag nalagyo ang suspek.
Natigayon naman ini nga madakpan sang otoridad.
Patay nga lapsag, nakalkalan sang mga ido sa basurahan
Isa ka bangkay sang lapsag nga babaye ang nakalkalan sang mga ido sa basurahan sa Libon, Albay.
Nakit-an sang isa ka residente nga nagatumpok ang mga ido sa basurahan gani iya ini ginkadtuan kag didto nakita ang patay nga lapsag nga ginaagawan sang mga ido agud kaunon.
Natigayon sini nga matabog ang mga ido kag gin-report sa otoridad ang nakita nga lapsag nga ginabanta nga anom ka bulan pa lang ukon premature pa.
Ginpabendisyunan ang amo nga lapsag antes ginlubong.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon agud matumod ang iloy ukon ginikanan sang lapsag.
International rights group, nagpanawagan sa ICC nga ipagwa gilayun ang arrest warrants batok sa mga “co-perpetrators” ni anay Presidente Duterte sa war on drugs
Nagpanawagan ang isa ka international rights group sa International Criminal Court (ICC) nga gilayon magpagwa sang arrest warrants batok sa mga former kag current official sang gobyerno nga ginakabig sang ICC bilang “co-perpetrators” sa ginapahayag nga crimes against humanity nga may kaangtanan sa war on drugs ni anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Sa pahayag sang International Coalition for Human Rights in the Philippines (ICHRP) chairman nga si Peter Murphy, iya ginpunto nga dapat maupod sa imbestigasyon ang mga ginhingadlan nga opisyal kag indi pagbay-an nga magpabilin nga hilway ang mga bangud posible nga maapektuhan ang ebidensya kag ma-intimidar ang mga testigo.
Matandaan nga gindeklarar sang ICC nga lakip sa ginhingadlan sanday Senators Bato dela Rosa kag Bong Go, anay Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre, kag pila ka anay hepe sang Philippine National Police.
Ginpanindugan naman nanday Go kag Aguirre nga wala sila sang kahilabtanan sa amo nga alegasyon.
Gintawag ni Go ini nga “baseless” nga akusasyon, samtang nagpahayag si Aguirre nga magapaidalom siya sa legal nga proseso kun may warrant nga ipagwa ang ICC kag indi ini magpanago.
Sa karon, nakatalana sa Pebrero 23 ang confirmation of charges hearing batok kay Duterte, nga yara sa kustodiya sang ICC.
Senator Robin Padilla, na-depress matapos nga ginhigadlan sang ICC nga ‘co-perpetrators’ ang iya duha ka abyan nga sanday Senators Go kag Dela Rosa
Nagpakigbahin sang iya hibubun-ot si Senador Robin Padilla nga ginakasubo gid sini ang balita matapos nga ginhigadlan sang International Criminal Court (ICC) nga co-perpetrators ang iya duha ka abyan nga sanday Senators Bong Go kag Ronald “Bato” Dela Rosa, kaupod si anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte sa ginapahayag nga “war on drugs” halin sang in ang alkalde pa sang Davao asta sa sang ini ang nangin Presidente.
Suno kay Padilla, kasubong nga “nagaulan sang luha” kag nakabatyag ini sang depresyon.
Ginpahayag man niya ang iya kabalaka kun sin-o ang magasuporta sa iya sa Senado kung mapagwa na ang warrant of arrest batok sa duha ka senador.
Dugang pa ni Padilla nga gilayun ini nga nakigsugilanon sa ila ni Go kag Dela Rosa agud hibaluon kun paano siya makabulig, kag nakig-angut man ini sa minority floor leader nga si Sen.
Nagapanawagan si Padilla sa gobyerno nga indi pagtugutan nga ipaidaum sa ICC ang mga Pilipino kag hugot nga nanindugan nga dapat protektahan ang soberanya sang pungsod.
Matandaan nga nangin kontrobersyal ang iya mga pahayag ni Padilla sang nagligad nga mga inadlaw, kun sa diin gintawag niya ang subong nga henerasyon nga “weak” bangud nagaka-experyensya sang ‘depression’.
16 ka pasahero pilason matapos nahulog ang jeep sa kanal
Pilason ang 16 ka pasahero matapos nahulog sa kanal ang ginasakyan nila nga jeep sa highway sa Brgy.
Padulong sa Lemery, Batangas ang jeep sang nag-lock ang steering wheel sini kag didto na nadulaan sang kontrol sa manibela ang driver.
Nahulog sa kanal ang jeep nga nagresulta sa pag-angkon sang mga pilas sang mga pasahero.
Madasig naman nga gindala sa ospital ang mga biktima.
Ginpaidalom naman sa kustodiya sang pulis ang driver sang jeep.
Kinder pupil sa classroom, patay matapos maigo sang nagtalang nga bala
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang isa ka kinder pupil matapos naigo sang nagtalanga nga bala sa classroom sang Damabalas Elementary School, Datu Piang, Maguindanao del Sur.
Ang biktima amo si Farhadin Ludtia, 5-anyos, residente sang banwa sang Datu Salibo.
Ginpahayag nga naghalin ang bala sa pihak nga barangay kun sa diin may natabo nga engkwentro sa tunga sang duha ka nagainaway nga pamilya nga Moro.
Working student, gindakop, ginkilkilan sang 10 ka pulis
Nagapangatubang subong sang sampaw-sampaw nga kaso administratibo ang 10 ka mga pulis sang Angono Police Station sa Rizal bangud sa ginaalegar nga pag-aresto sa isa ka working student kag ila pa ini nga ginkawatan.
Base sa iya panaysasyon, natabo ang insidente sang Nobyembre 10 sang gindakop siya sang mga pulis bangud sa akusasyon nga involved ini sa pagbaligya sang illegal drugs.
Nagapatigayon sang anti-illegal drug operation ang mga pulis sang naglabay si Macabenta sakay sa motorsiklo kag ginparahan ini kag ginpreso sang duha ka bulan.
Pahayag sang biktima, matapos gindakop, ginpangayuan siya sang P50,000 sang mga pulis kag ginkuha pa ang suksok nga singsing.
Napalab-ot ni Macabenta ang reklamo sa National Police Commission gani natumod gilayon ang mga involved nga pulis.
Missing nga Grade 4 pupil, nasapwan nga nalubong sa balas sa resort
Patay na sang nakit-an ang isa ka Grade 4 pupil sa isa ka beach resort sa Brgy.
Isa ka residente nga naglabay sa lugar ang nakadiskubre sa bangkay sang biktima matapos nakit-an ang parte sang lawas sini.
Ginpahayag nga antes na-missing, masami nga nagapang-scrap ang biktima sa lugar para ibaligya sa junk shop.
Natalana naman nga ipaidalom sa autopsy ang bangkay sang biktima.
Jeep nga may mga pasahero, nahulog sa banglid
Naospital ang ginabanta 10 ka mga pasahero sang isa ka jeep matapos nahulog sa banglid sa Barangay San Antonio, San Pedro City, Laguna sang Pebrero 10.
Ginpahayag nga nadulaan sang preno ang jeep.
Nakabunggo anay ini sa steel railing antes nagdiretso sa banglid.
Gilayon naman nga nagresponde ang mga rescuers kag ginpangdala sa ospital ang mga biktima.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sa natabo nga disgrasya.
Philippine Army member, ginluthang-patay sang kaupod man nga suldado sa Jamindan, Capiz
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang katapo sang Philippine Army matapos gintiro sang kaupod man nga suldado sa sulod sang kampo sa Camp General Macario Peralta sa Jamindan, Capiz.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nag-inom-inom ang duha kag may nagpatunga nga tensyon tubtob nagresulta ini sa pagpangluthang.
Na-recover sa lugar ang 15 ka empty shells sang 5.56mm.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon sa natabo.
16-anyos nga iloy nga nagapasuso sang lapsag, gintiro sang bana sa ulo
Patay ang 16-anyos nga iloy matapos gintiro sang bana sa iya ulo sa Maguindanao del Sur.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagapasuso ang biktima sa iya lapsag sang gintiro sang suspek.
Gin-alegar nga nag-away ang duha bangud sa pagpangimon sang bana kag ini ang posible rason sa natabo nga krimen.
Wala naman sang malain nga natabo sa lapsag matapos ginkup-an ini sang maayo sang biktima antes siya gintiro.
Madasig naman nga nalagyo ang suspek matapos ang pagpatay.
Lola patay, 2 ka iban pa pilason matapos nabungguan sang patrol car sang pulis
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang isa ka lola samtang duha naman ang pilason matapos mabungguan sang patrol car sang puli sa Dimiao, Bohol.
Ang napatay amo si Marcela Namuag, 80-anyos, residente sang Tangohay, Dimiao.
Ang mga pilason naman amo sanday Mary Ann Namuag, 45, kag Maximino Yecyec, 55, lunsay residente sang Taongon Cabatuan, Dimiao.
Ang nagamaneho naman sang patrol car amo si Senior Master Sergeant Bernil sang Jagna Municipal Police Station.
Sakay ang mga biktima sa motorela sang nabungguan sang patrol car.
Kaso nga Reckless Imprudence Resulting in Homicide, Multiple Physical Injuries kag Damage to Properties ang atubangon sang pulis.
Bangud sa utang, 17-anyos nga estudyante, gintiro
Patay ang isa ka 17-anyos nga estudyante matapos gintiro bangud sa ginaalegar nga wala nabaydan nga utang.
Ang lalaki nga biktima ang residente sang San Carlos City.
Base sa imbestigas­yon, samtang nagatindog ang biktima, nagpalapit ang isa ka lalaki nga nagsukot sang utang.
Sang wala may ginhatag nga bayad ang solterito, didta na ini gintiro sang suspek sa ulo.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang kapulisan.
Hit and Run:2 ka backriders, patay matapos ginbungguan sang van ang motorsiklo
Dead on the spot ang duha ka babaye nga backrider matapos ginbungguan sang van ang ila ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sa Brgy.
Pilason naman ang driver sang motorsiklo.
Ang mga napatay nga biktima amo sanday alyas “Jenny”, 21-anyos kag alyas “Janelle”, 20-anyos.
Ang pilason amo si alyas Josh, 22-anyos.
Nobya kag utod sang driver ang mga napatay.
Lunsay taga-Tayabas City ang mga biktima.
Makit-an man sa cctv footage ang pagbunggo sang van.
Natabo ini sa intersection kun sa diin nagdiretso sa pagtabok ang motorsiklo samtang madasig naman ang dalagan sang van nga wala nag-untat bisan pa nga naka-red light.
Lunsay wala sang suksok nga helmet ang mga sakay sang motorsiklo.
Matapos nakabunggo, nalagyo pa gid ang van apang naradyohan ini sa police checkpoint gani natigayon nga madakpan ang driver nga si alyas Mark nga nadiskubre nga wala sang lisensya.
Nahibaluan nga may sakay man nga 14 ka tawo ang nagbunggo nga van.
ICPO, ginakabig nga seryoso nga kaso ang asud-asud nga motornapping incidents sa siudad
Ginakabig sang Iloilo City Police Office nga seryoso nga kaso ang asud-asud nga motornapping incidents nga nagluntad sa distrito sang Jaro.
Shella Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang Iloilo Police Station Office, iya ginpahayag nga ginakabig man sang Highway Patrol Group kag sang Jaro PNP nga seryoso ang mga amo nga kaso bangud nga nagakaapekto man ini sa peace and order indi lang sa distrito sang Jaro kundi amo man sa bilog nga siudad.
Isa diri sa mga ginatutukan nga kaso sang motornapping incident amo ang natabo sa Brgy.
Quintin Salas malapit sa Land Transportation Office kun sa iin nagasuksok ang suspek sang Criminology uniform.
Dugang pa ni Sangrines nga padayun pa ang imbestigasyon sang mga awtoridad sa nasambit nga mga insidente.
Nagpanugyan naman ang Team Leader sang Iloilo Provincial Highway Patrol Group sa publiko nga mangin mahinalungon sa ila nga mga motorsiklo.
Ryan Palaran, iya ginpahayag nga ang mga tikang agud nga malikawan nga makawatan sang motorsiklo amo ang masunod:
Grade 12 student, nag-utas sang kabuhi sa classroom
Nag-utas sang kaugalingon nga kabuhi ang isa ka Grade 12 student sa atubang sang iya mga classmates kag manunudlo sa ila classroom sa Lian, Batangas.
Ang biktima amo si alyas BJ, 17-anyos, kag estudyante sang Lian Institute, Inc.
Suno sa gwardiya sang eskwelahan, nakit-an niya ang amo nga estudyante nga may dala nga pusil gani iya ini ginsita kag ginhambalan nga isurrender ini.
Apang hinali lang nagpalupok si alyas BJ sang duha ka beses.
Sa ikatatlo nga lupok, didto na natumba ang biktima kag naglapta ang dugo sa salog.
Kun ikaw ukon kun ikaw may kakilala nga nagakinahanglan sang makontak kaangot sa mental health, mahimo mag-dial sa sini nga mga numero:
Menor de edad nga apo, 105 beses nga ginhimuslan sang iya lolo
Arestado ang isa ka 67-anyos nga lolo matapos ginreklamo sang 105 ka beses nga paghimulos sa iya apo sang lima ka tuig pa lang ini.
Ang biktima nagaedad na subong sang 12-anyos.
3 most wanted person (MWP) sa Cagayan Valley kag gindakop paagi sa gahom sang warrant of arrest bangud sa kaso nga 105 counts sang rape, 105 counts sang sexual assault kag tatlo ka counts sang acts of lasciviousness.
Suno sa biktima, masami siya nga ginahimuslan sang iya lolo sang 2020.
Wala naman nanugid ang bata sa iya lola kag ginikanan bangud ginapahog siya sang suspek.
Bulagay ang ginikanan sang bata kag may tagsa na ka pamilya gani sa lolo niya siya nagtinir.
Sang natubuan sang buot ang biktima, didto na ini nangisog nga manugid sa iya iloy nga gilayon man nga nangayo sang bulig sa kapulisan kag nagresulta sa pagkadakop sa tigulang.
3 ka bata nga mag-ulutod, ginpanglampusan bato sa ila balay; 1 patay, 2 kritikal
Nasapwan na lang sang isa ka amay ang tatlo niya ka kabataan nga nagapaligo sa kaugalingon nga dugo sa sulod sang ila balay sa Hacienda Badiang, Barangay E-Lopez, Silay City, Negros Occidental.
Sa malain nga palad, isa ka gid sa ila ang napatay samtang kritikal naman ang duha nga ginabulong subong sa ospital.
Ang napatay amo ang siyam ka tuig nga babaye samtang ang mga pilason amo ang 14-anyos nga babaye kag apat ka tuig nga lalaki.
Ang mga biktima, ginpanglampusan sang bato sang wala pa makilal-an nga mga suspek.
Wala sang iban nga kaupod ang mga biktima sa ila balay bangud nagatrabaho sa Bacolod City ang ila amay nga si Edmon Bornales kag kun weekend lamang ini nagapauli.
Sa Saudi Arabia naman nagatrabaho ang ila iloy.
Sa imbestigasyon sang kapulisan, wala nakapauli sang Biyernes sang gab-i ang amay bangud nagaulan gani sang Sabado sang aga na ini nakapauli sa ila balay.
Didto na kag naabtan niya ang makakuluoy nga sitwasyon sang iya kabataan.
Nakit-an man sa sulod ang mga bato nga posible gin-gamit sa krimen.
May ginasundan na subong nga person of interest ang mga otoridad samtang nagapadayon ang imbestigasyon.
Legal expert, nagpahanumdom sa mga ginikanan nga mag-aligmat sa pagtugot sang ila mga kabataan nga menor de edad sa pagpagamit sang social media bangud sa posibilidad sang pagpang-abuso
Nagpahanumdom ang isa ka legal experts sa mga ginikanan nga mangin mahainalungon kag mag-aligmat sa pagtugot sang ila mga kabataan nga menor de edad sa pagpagamit sang cellphone ukon social media.
Ini ang may kaangtanan sa kaso sang Australian national nga si Martin Cook nga gin-convict sang Supreme Court (SC) sa kaso nga qualified human trafficking bangud sa sexual exploitation batok sa apat (4) ka mga menor de edad nga iya nabiktima paagi sa social media, kun sa diin gin-sentensyahan si Cook sang Lifetime imprisonment kag multa nga P2 Million, amo man ang tag P600,000 nga danyos sa kada biktima.
Chelna Deblois, iya ginpahayag nga nagakadapat gid nga sikyarun sang mga ginikanan kun sin-o ang mga makaistorya sang ila kabataan sa social media man ukon sa ila mismo nga kumunidad.
Dugang pa sini nga nagakadapat nga may giya sang ginikanan ang paggamit sang cellphone agud nga may ihibalo ang mga ini kag malikawan nga mangin biktima sang mga tawo nga may malain nga tuyo kag indi na masulit ang sahi nga insidente nga pagpang-abuso sexual sa mga menor de edad nga Pilipino.
Security guard nga naghingyo mag-day off, gintiro sang iya superior
Natiruhan ang isa ka gwardya matapos nga naghingyo ini nga mag-day-off.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Ton”, 30-anyos kag reliever security guard.
Ang suspek naman amo si alyas “Sammy”, 56-anyos nga amo ang officer-in-charge (OIC) security guard.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sang naghingyo ang biktima nga mag-day off, ginhambalan ini sang suspek nga sundon ang schedule sang duty.
Nangakig ang biktima kag nagkuha sang binangon kag ginhangkat sang inaway ang iya superior.
Wala nagbato ang OIC kag ginhambalan ang biktima nga maghalin na lang agud malikawan nga maglala ang gamo.
Sang naglakat ang biktima, may ginhaboy ini nga matig-a nga bagay sa iya superior gani napilitan ang suspek nga tiruhon ini gamit ang shotgun.
Gindala sa ospital ang biktima samtang gin-aresto naman ang suspek nga mangatubang sang panumbungon nga frustrated homicide.
PRO6, nakakumpiskar sang masobra P60M nga balor sang Droga sa una nga bulan sang 2026
Nakakumpiskar ang Police Regional Office 6 (PRO6) sang masobra P60M nga balor sang iligal nga druga sa una nga bulan sang tuig 2026.
Ini matapos ang ginpatigayon nga 109 ka anti-drug operations kun sa diin 137 ka mga indibidwal ang na-aresto nga ginalakipan sang 56 ka mga high-value individual (HVIs) kag 81 naman nga street-level suspects.
Nahibaluan nga ang pinakadamo nga confiscation amo ang naga balor P8.7M nga narekord sa Batad, Iloilo.
Isa man ka dako nga operasyon amo ang pag-aresto sa incumbent Barangay Chairman sang San Dionisio kun sa diin narekober sa opisyal ang malapit P6.5M nga illegal drugs.
Bangud diri, ginpahayag ni PRO 6 Director Police Brigadier General Josefino Ligan nga padayunon nila nga pagatutukan ang supply and reduction program sa Western Visayas bilang isa sa mga pamaagi agud matapna ang illegal nga droga.
Suno pa kay Ligan, ginaplanohan man ang pagpahamtang sang nga operation center sa mga transit areas para malikawan ang pagsulod sang druga sa rehiyon.
May yara naman sang ginlunsyar nga narcotics detection dog course nga may ara sang 22 ka mga K9 dogs kag handlers nga ginpaidalom sa training agud nga makabulig man nga mas mapasangkad ang operasyon kontra sa illegal nga mga droga.
Dugang pa niya nga pagatutukan man ang law enforcement operations kun sa diin igapaidalom sa mandatory drug test ang mga kapulisan agud masiguro nga wala sa ila ang may naga-gamit sang iligal nga droga.
Madumduman nga ginpaidalom sa drug test ang 110 ka mga hepe sa rehiyon sang Pebrero 3 kun sa diin naguwa ang resulta subong kag nakit-an nga negatibo ang mga ini.
Nurse nga bag-o lang nakapasar sa board exam, patay sa ambush
Isa ka nurse nga bag-o lang nakapasar sa board exam ang nalakip sa duha nga napatay sa pagpang-ambush sang riding-in-tandem sa General Santos City.
Ang mga napatay amo ang nurse nga si Nhiezer Rolliene Jane Aguacito kag ang tricycle driver nga si Ivan Conde, 33-anyos, kag amo ang target sa ambush.
City Heights sang ginsundan kag ginbanggaan sang mga armado nga lalaki kag ginpaarakan luthang.
Naigo naman sang bala ang nurse nga nagalakat lang sa lugar kag pauli na kuntani halin sa grocery store.
Dead on the spot si Conde samtang sa ospital naman ginbawian sang kabuhi si Aquacito.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga bag-o lang nakagwa sa presohan si Conde matapos nakapiyansa sa sampaw-sampaw nga panumbungon.
PRO6, ginpaidalom sa mandatory drug test ang 110 ka mga hepe sang pulis
Ginpaidalom sa mandatory drug testing ang 110 ka mga hepe sang pulis sa Western Visayas.
Suno kay PRO6 Regional Director Police Brigadier General Josefino Ligan, kabahin ini sang mas ginpabaskog nga integrity monitoring kag nagapadayon nga commitment sa internal cleansing.
Pahayag ni Ligan, ini nga tikang ang nagapakita sang prinsipyo nga kinahanglan nga ang mga hepe sang kapulisan ang dapat magserbe nga maayo nga ehemplo.
nga pagtib-ong sang propsyonalismo kag ipabilin ang pagsalig sang publiko sa organisasyon sa diin man nga lebel.
Ang mandatory drug test ginpatigayon kahapon, Pebrero 2, 2026 sa PRO6 Multi-Purpose Hall.
PRO6, nakaaresto sang 250 wanted persons sang Enero 2026
Nakaaresto ang Police Regional Office 6 (PRO6) sang 250 ka mga wanted persons sa bilog nga Enero 2026.
Nalakip sa mga nadakpan amo ang tanan nga yara sa Top 10 Most Wanted Persons sa Western Visayas.
Sa nadakpan nga mga indibidwal, 81 ang Most Wanted Persons, samtang 169 ang Other Wanted Persons.
Resulta ini sang 247 ka mga law enforcement operations sa bug-os nga rehiyon.
Ang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO) ang may pinakadamo nga naaresto nga 128 ka wanted persons, ginasundan sang Capiz PPO kag Antique PPO nga pareho nga may 30 ka mga naaresto, kag Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga may 25 ka mga naaresto.
Nagpasalamat kag nagdayaw naman si PRO6 Regional Director Police Brigadier General Josefino Ligan sa pagtinguha sang tanan nga operating units agud malab-ot ini nga kadalag-an sa bahin sang kapulisan.
PRO6, nakakumpiskar sang P60M nga shabu sa bilog nga Enero
Nakakumpiskar ang Police Regional Office 6 (PRO6) sang P60M nga balor sang iligal nga druga sa bilog nga Enero subong nga tuig.
Nakaaresto man ang PRO6 sang 137 ka mga indibidwal sa 109 tanan ka anti-drug operations.
Kalakip sa mga naaresto amo ang 56 ka mga high-value individual (HVIs) kag 81 naman ang street-level suspects.
Ang pinakadamo nga confiscation nga balor P8.7M ang narekord sa Batad, Iloilo kun sa diin naaresto sanday alias “Mico,” isa ka HVI, kag alias “Inday,” isa ka SLI, nga pareho nga residente sang Batad.
Isa man ka dako nga operasyon amo ang pag-aresto sa incumbent Barangay Chairman sang San Dionisio, Iloilo nga si alias “Matmat,” 39, kag isa ka HVI.
Narekober sa opisyal ang malapit P6.5M nga illegal drugs.
Suno kay Police Brigadier General Josefino Ligan, director sang PRO-6, ini nga mga confiscation kag pag-aresto ang pamatuod sang hugot nga kampanya sang regional office batok sa illegal activities.
Lalaki, patay matapos ginbuno gamit ang banana cue stick
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka lalaki matapos ginkastigo kag ginbuno gamit ang stick sang banana cue sa Tanay, Rizal.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Ed nga nagaedad sang 48-anyos.
Ang mga suspek naman amo si alyas Ronald, 28-anyos, kag amay sini nga si alyas “Lando” nga nagaedad 50-anyos.
Base sa pahayag ni alyas “Ronald”, ginsugo siya sang biktima nga magtakod sang kadena sa motorsiklo.
Suno sa suspek, wala siya nagpati sa biktima gani ginsipa siya sini kag ginhanaan sang kutsilyo.
Nanugid si alyas “Ronald” sa iya amay tuhoy sa ginhimo sa iya ni alyas “Ed”.
Sang nagsugataay ang ila banas, nagkomprontahanay sanday alyas “Ed” kag “Lando”.
May dala nga balisong si “Ed” kag stick sang banana cue ang dala ni “Lando”.
Nag-abot naman si Ronald kag ginsumbag ang biktima kag didto na nabun-an ini sang amay nga suspek.
Pilas sa liog kag dughan ang naangkon sang biktima nga gindeklarar nga dead-on-arrival sa ospital.
Pareho nga arestado ang mga suspek apang nanindugan nga self-defense lang ang ila ginhimo.
Mag-asawa nga tulog sa tricycle, patay matapos gin-arado sang truck
Patay ang mag-asawa matapos gin-arado sang dump truck ang tricycle kun sa diin sila nagakatulog sa Barangay Daanlungsod, Toledo City, Cebu.
Base sa imbestigasyon, mag ginlikawan ang dump truck nga isa pa ka dump truck apang sa malain nga palad, nagbunggo ini sa tricyclel.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang mga biktima apang wala na natabangan pa.
Nag-angkon man sang pilas ang driver sang truck kag ginabulong man subong sa ospital.
2 patay lakip na ang Crim student matapos naigo sang nagtalang nga bala sa shootout
Duha ang patay sa natabo nga shootout sa Novaliches, Quezon City.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Jonari Dangalan, 29, delivery rider kag residente sang Brgy.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sakay si Da­ngalan sa motorsiklo sang ginlagas sang mga suspek nga nagaangkasanay sa motorsiklo.
Ila ginpalukpan si Dangalan kag natabuan nga may mga pulis kag ginlagas ang mga suspek.
Nagpalupok sa mga pulis ang mga suspek gani nagbalos man ang otoridad.
Matapos ang engkwentro, nakit-an si Genovatin nga duguon samtang madamo man sang igo si Dangalan.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang mga biktima apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
11 ka igo sang bala ang naangkon ni Dangalan samtang naigo naman sang bala sa hita si Genovatin.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon sa insidente.
Motovlogger, patay matapos nagtumpilak ang iya motorsiklo
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka motovlogger matapos nga nagtumpilak ang ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sa San Nicolas, Pangasinan.
Ang biktima amo si Chester Masiglat nga may bansag nga “Mamaw Moto”, 32-anyos, residente sang Brgy.
Base sa imbestigas­yon, madasig ang dalagan sang ginamaneho nga Yamaha motorcycle (YZF-R3) kag sang yara na sa pakurbada nga bahin sang karsada, nadulaan ini sang balance kag nagtumpilak.
Nagsab-it pa ang lawas sini sa wire matapos nagtabog.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital apang wala na matabangan pa.
Misis nga may iban nga ka-chat, ginhatok-hatok buno sang bana
Patay ang 27-anyos nga asawa matapos ginhatok-hatok buno sang bana sa sulod sang ila balay sa Davao City.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nadiskubre sang bana nga may gina-chat nga iban nga lalaki ang iya asawa.
Samtang tulog ang biktima, didto ini ginbuno sang suspek sang makapila ka beses.
Nakabugtaw ang asawa kag nakadalagan pa pa-gwa sa ila balay apang natumba ini.
Nadala pa siya sang iya ginikanan sa ospital apang gindeklara nga dead on arrival.
Mangin ang iloy sang biktima nga nagtuyo magtambag ang nabun-an man.
Nadakpan naman ang suspek kag pasakaan sang kaso nga parricide kag frustrated parricide.
Lapsag, patay matapos nabuy-an sang iloy sa tricycle
Patay ang isa ka babaye nga lapsag matapos nabuy-an sang iloy kag nahulog kasunod sang pagtakilid sang ginasakyan nila nga tricycle sa Hacienda Balandra 2, Barangay Daga, Cadiz City, Negros Occidental.
Ginpahayag nga nadulaan sang kontrol sa tricycle ang driver matapos maigo sang tapaludo ang pangunahan nga rueda.
Nakabunggo ang tricycle kag nagtabog ang lapsag gikan sa butkon sang iloy.
Wala naman nagpasaka sang kaso ang iloy sang bata batok sa tricyle driver matapos nag-areglohanay.
Lalaki nga naghimulos sa kaangay nga lalaki, gin-gulgulan
Patay ang isa ka lalaki matapos gin-gulgulan sa liog sang lalaki nga ginpahayag nga ginhimuslan niya sang tatlo ka beses sa Santo Tomas, Isabela.
Suno sa suspek, wala na niya maantos ang paghimulos sa iya sang biktima gani ginpatay niya ini.
Nasapwan ang bangkay sang biktima sa isa ka bakante nga lote sa Barangay Baleleng sa amo nga banwa.
Nagapangatubang subong ang kaso nga homicide ang suspek.
2 ka bata nga mag-utod kag ila yaya, patay sa sunog
Patay sa nasunog nga balay ang mag-utod nga tatlo kag apat ka tuig kag ang ila 63-anyos nga yaya sa Iriga City, Camarines Sur.
Base sa imbestigasyon, na-trap ang mga biktima sa kuwarto sa 2nd floor bangud nga may “iron grills” ang bintana.
Nakaluwas naman ang lolo kag lola sang mga bata matapos makagwa.
Nalapnos man ang panit sang isa pa nila ka kaupod sa balay.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga ang kabangdanan sang sunog amo ang “electrical short circuit” sa sala sang balay.
Pulis nga na-missing, nasapwan nga patay sa septic tank
Nasapwan nga patay ang isa ka pulis nga una na gin-report nga na-missing.
Ulihi nga nakit-an nga buhi ang biktima sang Enero 24.
Sang amo nga adlaw, nagpadulong ini sa balay ni Oliver Paul Mauricio alyas “Sampol” agud kuhaon ang regalo nga ilimnon.
Vivencio Abalos nga miyembro sang Malolos City Police.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga sa sulod sang nasambit nga balay, may nakakompronta si Casauay nga ginkilala nga si Julian Salamat, residente sang Barangay Sto.
Nino, Malolos City kag isa ka police asset.
Ginpahayag nga wala nagustuhan ni Salamat ang lango-lango sang biktima sa iya nga nagresulta sa pagpangtiro.
Ginsulod ang lawas sang biktima sa septic tank.
Sang Enero 30, naga-ko si PCpl Abalos angot sa krimen kag sa gahum sang search warrant, ginkadtuan ang balay ni Mauricio kag nasapwan ang bangkay sang pulis.
Ginapangita naman ang nagapanguna nga suspect nga si Salamat.
4 ka kabataan, kalakip ang 2 ka menor, patay sa ambush
Patay ang apat ka kabataan sa natabo nga ambush sa Barangay New Abra sa Matalam, Cotabato.
Sakay ang mga biktima sa motorsiklo sang ginpangluthang sang mga armado nga mga lalaki.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday Rashid Sahay Mampo,19-anyos; Rica Jane Maidlos,18-anyos; Daryl Mampo Diansya,16-anyos; kag Russel Kim Mampo Dian­say, 11-anyos.
Pilason naman ang isa ka 14-anyos nga solterito.
Ginahibalo pa kun ano gid ang relasyon sang mga biktima sa isa kag isa.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad.
Car agent kag iya bana nga ginaangot sa pagpatay sa pulis kag iya 8-anyos nga bata, nadakpan na
Arestado na sang kapulisan ang mga suspek nga ginatudlo yara sa likod sang pagpatay kanday Police Senior Master Sergeant Diane Marie Mollenido kag sa otso-anyos nga bata sini nga lalaki nga si John Ysmael.
Ini amo ang isa ka car agent kag iya bana nga isa ka dismissed police officer.
Sa inisyal nga reports, kaina sang kaagahon natigayon nga pag-aresto.
Natalana pa nga ipatpat sang mga kapulisan ang pag-aresto kag ang dugang nga detalye sa identity sang nagkaladakpan.
Matandaan nga nasapwan ang bangkay sang iloy sa Enero 24 sa creek sa Pulilan–Baliuag Bypass Road sa Barangay Dulong Malabon, Pulilan, Bulacan.
Lima ka adlaw ang nagligad, nakit-an si John Ysmael sa maligwin nga lugar sa Barangay Maluid, Victoria, Tarlac.
Pareho na nga yara sa advanced state of decomposition ang mga bangkay sang nasapwan.
Napatay si Sergeant Mollenido bangud sa samad tuga sang pagkatiro sa iya nga ulo, samtang napatay naman ang bata bangud sa asphyxia ukon kakulang sa hangin.
Sandig sa pamilya, ulihi nakit-an nga buhi ang mag-iloy sang Enero 16, kag opisyal nga gin-report sa awtoridad nga missing sila sang Enero 19.
Sa inisyal nga imbestigasyon, natalana kuntani sila nga makigkita sa car agent sa Novaliches, Quezon matapos magbaligya sang salakyan.
Magapatigayon man ang pulis sang DNA tests sa mga biktima matapos may nakit-an nga tinulo sang dugo kadungan sang pag-conduct sang luminol test sa balay sang agent sa Quezon.
Gina-establisar pa sang kapulisan kun ano ang motibo sa likod sang krimen.#
Arestado ang anom ka miyembro sang Manila Police District (MPD) matapos ginreklamo sang pagholdap sa tatlo ka mga tawo sa Makati City.
Gindakop ang mga ini sang Makati City Police paagi sa hot pursuit operatuion.
Ang mga suspek ginalakipan sang isa ka Staff Sergeant kag lima ka Patrolman.
Lunsay assigned sa Station Drug Enforcement Unit sang MPD-Station 9 ang mga ini.
Bag-o ang insidente, gin-alegar sang tatlo ka mga biktima nga ginbanggaan sila sang grupo sang mga lalaki kag gintayaan sang pusil antes ginkuha ang ila mga gamit.
Madasig man nga nalagyo ang mga suspek sakay sa motorsiklo.
Gilayon nag-report ang mga biktima sa Makati PNP kag naaresto ang mga suspek nga lunsay man mga pulis.
Positibo man sila nga ginkilala sang mga biktima.
Anthony Aberin ang pagkakas sa pwesto sa hepe kag tanan nga personnel sang ila nga unit para hatagan ligwa ang imbestigasyon.
Anak sang ginpatay nga babaye nga pulis, nasapwan man nga wala na sang kabuhi
Isa ka trahedya ang nag-abot sa pamilya sang mag-iloy sa Taguig City matapos nga sunod-sunod nga nasapwan ang ila mga lawas nga wala na sang kabuhi.
Una nga nakit-an ang bangkay sang iloy nga si Police Senior Master Sergeant Diane Marie Mollenido sa isa ka sapa sa Pulilan, Bulacan sang Enero 24 ka may igo sang bala sa ulo.
Nakit-an naman ang bangkay sang iya bata nga si John Ysmael Mollenido, 8-anyos, sa isa ka calamansi farm sa Barangay Maluid sa Victoria, Tarlac.
Ulihi nga nakit-an nga buhi ang mag-iloy sang Enero 16 sa Quezon City kaupod ang isa ka car agent para sa isa ka transaksiyon.
Ginakabig na subong nga isa sa mga persons of interest ang car agent.
Padayon pa ang maid-id nga imbestigasyon.
Mag-utod nga pakadto sa eskwelahan, patay matapos nakabunggo ang ila motorsiklo sa truck
Patay ang duha ka bata nga mag-utod matapos nagbunggo ang ginasakyan nila nga motorsiklo sa isa ka truck sa Barangay Ilijan Norte sa Tubigon, Bohol.
Pakadto kuntani sila sa eskwelahan para magkuha sang exam kag mabayad sang tuition fee sang natabo ang aksidente.
Pareho nga wala sang suksok nga helmet ang duha.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nag-overtake sila sa tricycle gani nakabunggo sa nasugata nga truck.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang duha apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Policewoman, nasapwan nga patay samtang missing naman ang iya anak
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka babaye nga pulis sa Bulacan.
Missing naman ang 8-anyos nga anak sini nga si alyas “Joel”.
Ginakabig nga person-of-interest sa krimen ang bana sang biktima nga isa man ka pulis.
Yara na ini sa kustodiya sang otoridad samtang padayon ang imbestigasyon.
Enero 24 sang nadiskubre ang bangkay sang biktima sa creek matapos nga na-missing humalin sang Enero 19.
Pasahero nga nangtaya kutsilyo, natiruhan sa sulod sang airport sa Cabatuan
Natiruhan ang isa ka pasahero nga lalaki sa Iloilo International Airport matapos ini nga nangtaya sang dala nga kutsilyo kag nagbato pa sa mga kapulisan.
Ini amo si Roland Lañojan, 54 anyos, security guard, kag residente sang Tayong, Sagay, Camiguin.
Sa initial nga impormasyon, nangin irritable ang nasambit nga indibidwal matapos ini nga makita-an sang nasambit nga kutsilyo.
Gintaya sang lalaki ang iya sundang sa mga kapulisan rason nga napilitan nga magpalupok ang Airport Police.
Na-igo ini sa wala niya nga abaga nga gilayon man gindala sa ospital.
Gindala ini sa pinakamalapit nga ospital agud mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga pagbulong.
Nahibaluan nga wala sang initial screening sa entrada sang airport rason nga nadala sini sa ikaduha nga panalgan sang establisyamento ang iya nga kutsilyo nga may kalaba-on nga 12 ka pulgada.
Gilayon naman nga nagbalik sa normal ang operasyon sa Iloilo International Airpot matapos ang nasambit nga shooting incident.
Make up artist, patay matapos ginlampusan bato sa ulo
Patay ang isa ka make up artist matapos ginlampusan sang bato sa higad sang baybay sa Lobo, Batangas.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Aljohn” nga residente man sang amo nga lugar.
Nasapwan ang biktima nga buka ang ulo kag nagapaligo sa kaugalingon nga dugo.
Nakit-an man malapit sa lugar ang bato nga may dugo nga posible amo ang gin-gamit sa krimen.
Sa subong, wala pa sang matumod nga suspek sa krimen.
Dalagita nga iloy, ginpatay bangud nangayo sustento sa amay sang bata
Patay ang 17-anyos nga dalagita nga iloy matapos ginkuga sang anay nobyo matapos nangayo sang sustento para sa ila nga bata.
Nasapwan na lang ang bangkay sang biktima sa atubang sang ila nga balay sa Lipa.
Base sa imbestigasyon, naglisensya ang biktima nga may kadtuan ini apang wala na nakabalik tubtob nga nadiskubre nga nakigkita ini sa anay nobyo.
Natigayon naman nga maaresto ang suspek nga nag-ako man sa krimen.
Kaso nga murder ang ipasaka batoksa suspek.
Manunudlo kag himata, patay matapos ginpaarakan luthang ang ila balay
Patay ang isa ka babaye nga manunudlo kag himata sini samtang pilason ang isa ka barangay kagawad matapos ginpaarakan luthang ang ila balay sa Brgy.
Gamit sang wala makilala nga grupo ang assault rifles.
Ang napatay amo sanday Nurhani Sangki Tayuan, isa ka government school teacher, kag ang lalaki nga himata sini nga si alyas “Pikong”.
Pilason naman si Saddam Abdullah Tayuan nga isa ka barangay kagawad kag bana ni Tayuan.
Madasig nga nalagyo ang mga suspek matapos ang insidente.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang mga otoridad.
Karabaw kag kanding, ginhimuslan sang solterito
Padayon pa subong nga ginapangita ang isa ka solterito nga naghimulos sa isa karabaw sa El Nido, Palawan.
Duha ka tawo ang nakakita sa suspek sang ginahimo sini ang amo nga akto sa karabaw nga nakahigot sa kahoy.
Sang nakit-an sini ang duha ka saksi, madasig ini nga nalagyo samtang hublas kag nabilin pa ang iya shorts, brief kag cellphone.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga ang amo nga solterito man ang naghimulos sa isa ka kanding sa amo man nga lugar.
Patay ang isa ka barangay kagawad matapos matiruhan sa Murcia, Negros Occidental.
Ang biktima amo si Joe Arnel Gawan, 59 anyos, kag kagawad sang Barangay Sta.
Natabo ang insidente sa Purok Puncian, Barangay Sta.
Sang amo nga tion, nakapanaog lamang ang biktima sa isa ka salakyan sang gintiro ini sang wala makilala nga mga suspek kag naigo gid sa ulo.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital apang gindeklarar nga dead on arrival.
Padayon pa nga ginatinguhaan nga matumod ang suspek nga nalagyo matapos ang krimen.
2 patay matapos gintiro sang BJMP employee
Duha ka tawo ang patay sa pagpangluthang sang isa ka miyem­bro sang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) sa Brgy.
Pinagbuhatan, Pasig kun sa diin sakay ang biktima nga babaye sa motorsiklo sang gintiro sang suspek.
Ginluthang man sang suspek ang isa ka lalaki nga nagpalapit sa crime scene kag napatay gid.
Nalagyo ang suspek apang natigayon man nga madakpan sang otoridad.
Gindakop sang kapulisan ang isa ka empleyada sang Department of Environment and Natural Resources–Environmental Management Bureau (DENR-EMB) bangud sa ginpahayag pagpangkilkil.
Kasunod ini sang reklamo sang tag-iya sang gasolinahan sa Barangay Ugad, Cabagan, Isabela.
Ang suspek amo si alyas ” Mona”, 35-anyos.
Ang nagreklamo amo si “Neila”, 56 anyos.
Nadakpan ang suspek paagi sa entrapment operation kun sa diin nakuha sa iya ang marked money kag cellphone.
Gin-alegar sang tagreklamo nga ginapangayuan siya masami sang suspek sang kwarta.
Yara na sa kustodiya sang Cabagan Police Station ang suspek.
Naglugdang ang isa ka pumpboat sa tunga sang Lupi Festival fluvial parade sa isa ka suba sa Lumban, Laguna kahapon sang aga.
Suno sa Lumban Municipal Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (MDRRMO), hinali lang nga ginsulod sang tubig ang pumpboat gani nagpanik ang mga tawo kag nagtakilid ang sakayan tubtob naglugdang.
Masiglangoy naman pakadto sa pangpang ang ginabanta 40 ka mga tawo nga sakay sini.
Nakaluwas naman sa katalagman ang tanan nga sakay sang pumpboat.
Rider, patay matapos masunog upod ang iya nga motorsiklo
Patay ang isa ka rider nga kaupod nga nasunog sang iya nga motorsiklo matapos nagbunggo sa nakaparada nga salakyan sa Laoag City, Ilocos Norte.
Sang nagsablab ang kalayo, wala nakahalin ang driver matapos nga napit-alan ini sang iya motorsiklo.
Nagtabog naman ang angkas sang rider bangud sa impact kag gindala ini sa ospital.
Nagsungka naman sa otoridad ang driver sang nakaparada nga salakyan.
Depensa niya, ginpahigad anay niya ang salakyan bangud nahubsan ini sang gasoline kag nag-hazard light pa ini.
Arestado ang isa ka public school teacher kag ang live-in partner sini sa ginpatigayon nga drug buy-bust operation sa Barangay Poblacion, Compostela, Davao de Oro.
Ang manunudlo amo si alyas “Elmer,” 51-anyos samtang ang iya nga live-in partner amo si alyas “Jenny”, legal ang edad.
Ginpahayag nga nagabaligya sang shabu ang manunudlo sa isa kag undercover agent nga nagpakuno-kuno nga buyer.
Didto na natigayon nga maaresto ang duha.
Nakuha sa ila ang shabu nga nagabalor ₱110,000.
Mangatubang ang mga ini sang kaso nga paglapas sa Republic Act 9165 ukon ang Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
4-anyos nga bata, ginlumsan sang iya iloy
Napatay gid ang apat ka tuig nga bata nga babaye matapos ginpahayag nga ginlumsan sa dagat sang iya iloy sa Zamboanga del Sur.
Suno sa report, gindala ang bata sa dagat sang iya mismo iloy kag amay agud maligo apang wala na ini makit-an nga buhi.
Una nga naaresto ang amay apang ginpanginwala nga siya ang naglumos sa bata kag gintudlo naman ang iloy nga naghimo sang krimen.
Ginpahayag nga may isa ka testigo nga nakakita sa ginhimo sang iloy.
Natigayon naman nga naaresto ang iloy kag padayon nga ginaimbestigaran sang otoridad ang insidente.
Nasalbar ang isa ka bag-o ginbun-ag nga lapsag nga lalaki nga ginsulod sa ecobag kag ginhaboy sa atop sang balay sa Cagayan de Oro City.
Suno sa tag-iya sang balay, hinali lang nga may nabatian sila nga hibi sang lapsag halin sa atop sang tunganggab-i sang Huwebes.
Sang ila ginlantaw, nakibot sila nga may yara gid man sang lapsag nga nagatabid pa ang pusod.
Gindala naman sa health center ang lapsag kag yara na sa maayon nga kondisyon.
Ginahibalo pa sang otoridad kun sin-o ang ginikanan sang bata.
Patay ang isa ka amay matapos ginbuno sang iya anak sa San Mateo, Rizal.
Natabo ang insidente sa sulod sang ila barracks kun sa diin pareho nga construction worker ang mag-amay.
Base sa impormasyon gikan sa San Mateo Municipal Police Station, nagbaisay ang suspek kag ang biktima samtang hubog ang mga ini.
Didto na ginbuno sang suspek ang biktima.
Nagtambag pa ang utod sang suspek apang ginbuno man niya ini.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang amay apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Mangunguma nga wala nakabayad ₱300 nga utang, ginbuno
Pilason ang isa ka 51-anyos nga mangunguma matapos ginbuno sang lalaki nga gin-utangan niya sang ₱300 sa Valencia City, Bukidnon.
Natabo ang krimen sa isa ka gasolinahan sang gulpi lang nagpalapit ang suspek kag ginsukot ang biktima.
Sang nagsiling ang biktima nga indi pa ini makabayad, nangakig ang suspek kag didto na sini ginbuno ang biktima.
Nag-angkon sang madamo nga pilas ang amo nga mangunguma kag madasig nga gindala sa ospital.
Naaresto naman ang suspek kag narekober sa iya ang gin-gamit nga kutsilyo sa krimen.
Lalaki, ginbasyahan kape ang nobya; babayi, nagbalos kag ginlabo ang nobyo
Nangin maduguon ang inaway sang mag-live in partner sa Davao del Sur matapos ginlabo sang 34-anyos nga babaye ang 19-anyos nga lalaki.
Ginpahayag nga balos ini sang babaye matapos ginbasyahan siya sang mainit nga kape sang lalaki sa tunga sang ila pagbaisay.
Depensa sang suspek, wala na ini nakapugong bangud masami siya ginasakit sang biktima.
Ginabulong na sa ospital ang lalaki samtang napreso naman ang babaye.
Estudyante, patay sa buno sang pareho nga estudyante
Patay ang isa ka 18-anyos nga estudyante matapos nga ginbuno sang kaangay man nga estudyante sa gwa sang eskwelahan sa Barangay Poblacion Zone 2, Taal, Batangas.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Vin”, residente sang Brgy.
Poblacion Zone 6 nga nag-angkon sang tatlo ka pilas sang pagkabuno sa tiyan.
Lunsay mga estudyante sang Taal Senior High School ang suspek kag biktima.
Natabo ang insidente sa atubang sang Rizal College of Taal matapos nagbaisay ang duha.
Nagtapungulay ang mga ini kag didto na nagkuot sang kutsilyo ang suspek kag ginbuno ang biktima.
Misis nga nakigbulag, gin-gulgulan sang mister
Nagresulta sa makangilidlis nga krimen ang pagpakigbulag sang asawa sa iya bana sa Sitio Enverga, Barangay Liwayway, Mauban, ­Quezon.
Ini matapos nga gin-gulgulan sang bana sa liog ang iya asawa.
Ang biktima amo si Jovy, 44, samtang ang nakapalagyo nga suspek amo si Al, 47.
Base sa imbestigasyon, isa ka tuig na nga wala nagaupdanay ang mag-asawa matapos ginreklamo sang biktima ang suspek sa paglapas sa RA 9262 (Anti-Violence Against Women and their Children Act of 2004).
Sang nagdesisyon ang duha nga magkitaay sa ila balay agud opisyal sila nga magbulagay kag magtungaay sang propedad, didto na natabo ang krimen.
Nagbaisay ang duha tubtob nga gin-gulgulan sang liog ang biktima.
Madasig nga nalagyo ang suspek apang nagpabutyag man nga magasungka ini sa otoridad.
Lawas sang army official, wasaag sang ginluthang sang CAFGU member
Halos nawas-ag gid ang lawas sang isa ka assistant detachment commander sang Philippine Army matapos ginluthang gamit ang M16 sang isa ka CAFGU member sa Rodriguez, Rizal.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Mark”, 35-anyos, katapo sang 80th Infantry Battalion, 21st Division sang Philippine Army.
Ang nagtiro nga suspek amo si alyas “Prince”, 27-anyos kag ang mga upod sini sang natabo ang insidente amo sanday alyas “Jorald”, 34 kag “Samuel”, 53, nga lunsay CAFGU Active Auxiliary (CAA) nga nakadestino sa detachment sang biktima.
Base sa imbestigasyon, antes ang krimen, ginsita sang biktima ang mga suspek nga nagapahubog.
Kasunod sini, samtang yara ang biktima kag sanday Jorald kag Samuel sa sulod sang kitchen area, nagsulod si Prince kag gintayaan sila sang pusil.
Ginpunggan sang biktima si Prince agud pakalmahon apang nangakig ini kag ginkuha ang M16 armalite kag gin-ubos paarak ang bilog nga magazine sa biktima.
Nahibaluan nga may yara na sang daan nga dumot ang mga suspek bangud sa masami pagsita sa ila nga pagpahubog.
Mangatubang naman ang mga arestado sang kaso nga murder kag illegal discharge of firearms.
Tatlo ka tawo, pilason matapos nagtabog ang caterpillar ride
Tatlo ka tawo ang pilason matapos naguba ang caterpillar ride sa isa ka carnival sa Población, Santa Maria, Bulacan.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Lyra Borca, 30-anyos; Jefry Parulan, 47-anyos; kag Markus Martin, 4-anyos.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagasakay sanday Borca kag Martin sa amo nga ride sang hinali lang nagdasig ang dalagan sini kag nagtabog.
Nag-igo ang mga ini sa isa pa ka biktima nga si Parulan malapit sa ride.
Mangatubang naman sang reklamo nga Reckless Imprudence Resulting in Multiple Physical Injury ang tag-iya kag empleyado sang carnival.
4 patay sa bungguanay sang jeep kag dump truck
‎Apat ka pasahero sang jeep ang patay samtang walo ang pilason matapos mabungguan ang ila nga salakyan sang isa ka dump truck sa Luna, Isabela.
Magluwas sa mga napatay, walo ang nag-angkon sang malala nga pilas kag gindala sa ospital sa Cauayan City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, padulong ang jeep sa Cauayan City kag kasunod sini ang motorsiklo samtang pakadto sa Cabatuan ang dump truck.
Nagpreno ang dump truck kag bangud madanlog ang dalan, nagkadto ini sa pihak nga linya kag nabungguan ang jeep nga nag-igo naman sa motor.
Yara na sa kustodiya sang Luna PS ang driver sang dump truck samtang ginahanda ang mga kaso nga Reckless Imprudence Resulting in Multiple Homicide, Multiple Physical Injuries, kag Damage to Properties nga ipasaka batok sa iya.
Arestado ang isa ka 18-anyos nga lalaki nga estudyante nga ginakabig nga no.
Ini amo si alyas “Benjie” nga may sampaw-sampaw nga kaso nga nagalakip sang Acts of Lasciviousness nga may piyansa nga P180K, 13 counts of sexual assault nga may piyansa nga P180K kag 3 counts sang rape nga wala sang piyansa.
Preso na ini subong sa detention facility kag ginahulat na lang ang ipapanaog nga commitment order halin sa korte.
Nagpahayag naman sang kalipay ang mga biktima sang suspek bangud sa pagkaaresto sa iya.
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang driver sang Batangas-Municipal Environment and Natural Resource Office (MENRO) matapos gintiro sa Padre Garcia, Batangas.
Ang biktima amo si Michael Sulabo, 49-anyos samtang ang suspek amo si Ronel Nera Pesigan,38-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagapungko ang biktima sa iya nga motorsiklo malapit sa balay sang suspek.
Hinali lang nag-abot ang suspek sakay sa tricycle kag gintiro ang biktima.
Ginapahayag nga pagpangimon ang rason sang krimen.
Patay ang isa ka anay bise-alkalde sa natabo nga shootout sa Brgy.
Ang napatay amo si Corey Dickpus, 64-anyos, isa ka “high fugitive” kag may P1-milyon nga patong sa ulo.
Suno sa otoridad, magaserbe kuntani sila sang warrant of arrest sa kaso nga murder kag frustrated murder batok sa anay opisyal apang nagbato ini sa kapulisan.
Nagbalos ang otoridad kag naigo sang bala si Dickpus.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital ang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
May isa ka pulis man nga napilasan sa shootout.
Si Dickpus ang isa sa mga most wanted sa Pilipinas.
Ginkabig man ini nga most wanted person sa Cordillera kaangot sa kaso nga double murder samtang siya ang nagaserbe sadto bilang barangay captain sang Poblacion.
Suspek ini sa masaker sang 2000 kun sa diin lima ang napatay.
School guard, gintiro sang OIC sa iya nawong
Kritikal ang kondisyon sang isa ka guwardya matapos gintiro sang ila nga officer in-charge (OIC) sa ginabantayan nga eskwelahan sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Ren”, 57, security guard sang Rosario Institute kag residente sang Novaliches, Quezon City.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, yara sa barracks sang amo nga eskwelahan ang biktima sang nag-abot ang suspek nga si alyas Romeo.
Suno sa isa ka testigo, sirado na ang gate apang ginpahog siya sang suspek nga buksan ini kun indi niya luyag maulamid.
Didto na nagdiretso ang suspek sa barracks kag gintiro ang biktima sa nawong.
Ginpahayag nga may daan na nga hiligut-anon ang duha nga amo ang posible rason sang pagpangluthang.
Criminology student patay matapos nahulog sa pil-as ang ginasakyan nga motorsiklo
Patay ang isa ka Criminology student samtang pilason naman ang iya utod matapos nahulog sa pil-as ang ginasakyan nila nga motorsiklo sa Bontoc, Mountain Province.
Ang napatay am si Janel Balac Palacio, samtang ang pilason nga utod amo si Jeryx Kian Balac Palacio.
Ang mag-utod ang lunsay residente sang Barangay Dalimuno, Bantay, Tabuk City, Kalinga.
Base sa imbestigasyon sang Bontoc Municipal Police Station, ginamanehi ni Jeryx ang motorsiklo halin sa Barangay Bontoc III pakadto sa Barangay Alab Oriente sang naglapaw ini kurbadahon nga parte sang karsada.
Bangud sini, nahulog ang motorsiklo sa pil-as.
Nakit-an si Janel nga naipit sa tunga sang mga puno sang kawayan nga lima ka metros ang kadalumon halin sa karsada.
Padayon naman nga ginabulong sa ospital ang iya utod.
Station Commander sang PCG , gintiro sa iya salakyan
Patay ang isa ka station commander sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) matapos gintiro samtang yara sa sulod sang iya salakyan sa Barangay ­Veterans Village, Ipil, Zamboanga Sibugay.
Wala pa nakilala ang tawo nga naghimo sang krimen.
Sa subong, padayon nga nagapakig-angot ang PCG sa Philippine National Police agud masiguro ang maid-id nga imbestigasyon.
Lola nga nagapanghugas pinggan, gintiro-patay
Patay ang isa ka 65-anyos nga lola matapos ini gintiro sa sulod sang ila balay samtang nagapanghugas sang pinggan sa Umingan, Pangasinan.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, ginsulod sang duha ka mga indibidwal ang balay sang biktima kag hinali lang nga gintiro ang tigulang.
Nag-angkon ini sang igo sang bala sa liog kag kilid.
Madasig naman nga nakapalagyo ang mga suspek.
Ginpahayag nga kaakig ang posible rason sa krimen.
Nakita naman sang otoridad sa ginluntaran sang krimen ang isa ka basiyo sang bala sang kalibre .9MM nga pusil, kag kalo nga ginapatihan nga iya sang isa sa mga suspek.
2 SHS students, patay matapos nakabunggo sa truck
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang duha ka senior high school students matapos nga nagbunggo ang ila ginasakyan nga kotse sa isa ka truck sa Maharlika Highway,Tayabas City, Quezon.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Rayver, 18, kag Ralph, 17, pareho nga residente sang Barangay Calumpang, Tayabas City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nakabunggo ang ila ginasakyan nga kotse sa Tractor head truck nga ginamaneho ni Alain, 58-anyos.
Ginpahayag nga hinali lang nagliko ang truck gani nakabunggo ang kotse.
Bangud sa impact, nabuka gid ang kotse sang mga biktima.
Ginkinahanglan pa magpatigayon sang extrication procedure para makuha ang mga biktima matapos nga nagdasok gid ang ila salakyan.
Napreso na ang driver sang truck kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in double homicide and damage to property.
Estudyante, gintiro sang iya nobyo sa gwa sang boarding house
Pilason ang isa ka babaye nga estudyante matapos gintiro sa kilid sang karsada sa gwa sang ila boarding house sa Barangay 12, Bacolod City.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Danica samtang ang suspek amo si alyas Bogart nga isa man ka estudyante.
Suno sa impormasyon, nag-away ang duha kag nagdalagan pa-gwa sang boarding house ang babaye.
Didto na nabatian ang lupok kag nakit-an nga natumba ang biktima.
Ginbuligan naman ini sang iya boardmates agud madala sa ospital.
Lalaki, nahulog halin sa 5th floor sang isa ka hotel
Nag-angkon sang bali sa hita kag iban nga parte sang lawas ang isa ka lalaki matapos nahulog gikan sa ikalima nga panalgan sang hotel sa Baguio City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nakita ang biktima nga nagalakat sa balcony sang Hotel Veniz sa Abanao Street kag nagsaka pa gid ini sa balcony railing sang hotel.
Didto na kag nakadanlog ini apang nakapanghawid pa sa kabilya tubtob nga nahulog ini kag nagtupa sa atop sang taxi.
Gilayon naman nga gindala ini sa Baguio General Hospital and Medical Center kag ginsulod sa Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
Punong barangay kag CAFGU member, patay sa ambush
Patay ang isa ka punong barangay kag upod sini nga miyembro sang Citizens Armed Forces Geographical Unit (CAFGU) matapos gin-ambush sa Barangay Malibatuan, Arakan, Cotabato.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Jerry Bondad Prande, barangay chairman sang Malibatuan kag si Gemar Caro Prande.
Suno sa otoridad, nagaangkasanay sa motorsiklo ang duha sang ginbanggaan sang mga armado nga lalaki kag ginpaarakan luthang.
Nag-angkon ang mga biktima sang madamo nga igo sang bala sa nanuhay-tuhay nga bahin sang ila lawas.
Wala pa madakpan ang mga suspek sa amo nga pagpang-ambush.
Online seller nga nagpadako sang dughan, patay
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang isa ka online seller matapos naka-eksperyensya sang tuman nga magdugo kag pagporma sang dugo sa iya mga ugat matapos gin-operahan agud magpadako sang dughan kag magpagamay sang butkon sa Sto.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Angeline, 24-anyos, residente sang Lipa City, Batangas.
Ruth” sang Cinco Marias Aesthetic Clinic and Wellness Spa nga nagapangatubang subong sang reklamo nga Reckless Imprudence Resulting in Homicide.
Natabo ang operasyon sa online seller sang Enero 8 sang aga sa aesthetic center kun sa diin gin-perform ni Dr.
Wala anay ginpapauli ang biktima agud obserbahan tubtob nga gindala ini sa ospital.
Makaligad ang duha ka adlaw, napatay ini bangud sa “hypovole­mic shock” kag “disseminated intravascular coagulation” ukon tuman nga pagdugo base sa death certificate.
Asawa, patay matapos ginkuga sang bana nga gwardiya
Patay ang isa ka asawa matapos ginkuga sang iya bana nga isa ka gwardiya.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Jenny, 34-anyos samtang ang suspek amo si alyas Jun, 36-anyos.
Ang biktima nasapwan na lang sang iya pamilya nga yara na ini sa sulod sang garbage bag kag gintago sa idalom sang kama sa sulod sang ila balay.
Nakit-an sa liog sini ang senyales nga ginkuga ini gamit ang kable sang kuryente.
Antes nasapwan, tatlo ka ka adlaw na ini nga wala nakita sang iya utod gani nagdesisyon siya nga bisitahon ang biktima kag didto na nadiskubre ang iya bangkay.
Ginaayam na subong sang otoridad ang suspek.
Lola nga nagapuksi sang balunggay, natuslok sang salsalon
Natuslok sang salsalon ang isa ka 65-anyos nga lola samtang nagapuksi sang balunggay sa Brgy.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nakadanlog ang tigulang rason nga natuslok gid ang guya sini sang salsalon sang plantbox kun sa diin nagatindog ang puno sang balunggay.
Sang nagresponde ang mga katapo sang Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP), naggamit pa sang hydraulic cutter kag ginbuka ang porsyon sang konkreto nga bahin sang plantbox agud maluwas ang babaye.
Naglawig sang 30 minutos ang rescue operation.
Sa maayo nga palad, wala sang apektado nga mayor nga ugat sa tigulang kag nagarekober na ini.
P200K nga donasyon sa simbahan, ginkawat
Arestado ang isa ka 31-anyos nga babaye matapos ginkawat ang malapit P200,000 nga donasyon sa simbahan sa Minglanilla, Cebu.
Ang kwarta ang halin sa natipon sang Misa de Gallo kag donasyon sang new year.
Nakuhaan sang CCTV footage nga nagsulod ang suspek nga si Christine Amante Ababon sa compound sang simbahan kag gintaban ang kwarta.
Paagi sa impormasyon halin sa isa ka concerned citizen, natultulan sang kapulisan ang balay sang suspek kag nakumpiska ang ₱15,000 nga kabahin sang ginkawat nga kwarta.
Napreso na ini subong sa Minglanilla Municipal Police Station kag mangatubang sang kaso nga robbery with force upon things.
Ginahibalo pa sang otoridad kun sa diin gintago sang suspek ang iban nga kwarta.
Delivery rider nga wala ginhatagan kwarta sang iloy, naglumpat sa suba
Maswerte nga nakaluwas ang isa ka 22-anyos nga delivery rider matapos naglumpat sa suba sa Valenzuela City.
Suno sa impormasyon, gin-akigan ini sang iya iloy kag wala ginhatagan sang kwarta gani nagsunggod.
Sunod ini nga nagkadto sa suba kag naglumpat.
Madasig naman nga nagpangayo sang bulig ang mga tawo nga nakakita sa iya kag natigayon gilayon nga ma-rescue.
Lalaki nga nagbulig sa naaksidente, patay matapos mabungguan sang truck
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka lalaki matapos mabungguan sang isa ka wing van truck samtang nagabulig sa mga biktima sang naaksidente nga motorsiklo sa Barangay Mandangoa, Balingasag, Misamis Or*ental.
Naglabay lang ang biktima sa ginluntaran sang aksidente apang nagpondo ini agud buligan ang mga sakay sang motorsiklo.
Apang hinali lang nga may nagapadulong man nga wing van truck nga madasig ang dalagan kag nabungguan ini.
Nakaluwas naman ang upod sini matapos niya natiklod sang nagapalapit na ang truck.
Ginsiling naman sang driver sang truck nga nadulaan sang preno ang iya nga salakyan rason nga nabungguan niya ang biktima.
Magluwas sa napatay, may pito ka iban pa nga napilasan sa insidente.
Indi na magpasaka sang kaso ang pamilya sang biktima matapos nga naareglo ini.
Nobyo, patay matapos ginkastigo sang mga utod sang iya nobya
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka nobyo matapos ginpulihan kastigo kag ginbuno sang tatlo ka utod sang iya nobya sa Cagayan de Oro City.
Ang biktima nga isa ka police asset ang nag-angkon sang 22 ka pilas tuga sang pagkabuno.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, ginpatawag sang mga suspek ang biktima para hulamon ang iya nga motorsiklo kag pag-abot sa lugar, ginpulihan nila ini sa pagkastigo.
Sa hot pursuit operation sang mga pulis, naaresto ang isa ka 19-anyos nga suspek samtang padayon naman nga ginapangita ang duha niya ka utod.
Suno sa kapulisan, akig ang mga suspek sa biktima bangud ini ang ginatudlo nila nga rason kun ngaa napreso ang ila amay nga involved sa illegal drugs.
Amay, ginhatok-hatok buno ang asawa kag bata
Napatay gid ang mag-iloy matapos ginhatok-hatok buno sang ila padre de pamilya sa Brgy.
Ang mga biktima amo ang 54-anyos nga iloy kag 34-anyos nga anak nga lalaki samtang ang suspek nagaedad sang 65-anyos.
Ginpahayag nga nagbaisay ang amay kag ang bata bangud sa manok nga ginbulang sang biktima.
Ginsumbag sang anak ang iya amay nga madasig naman nga nagkuha sang kutsilyo kag ginbuno ang biktima sa tiyan.
Nagtambag ang asawa sang suspek apang ginbuno man niya ini sa dughan.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang mag-iloy apang wala na natabangan pa.
Napreso naman ang suspek nga nagapangatubang sang double parricide nga kaso.
Mag-utod halin sa namatyan, ginpatay samtang nagapauli
Patay ang mag-utod matapos ginpangtiro samtang nagapauli sa ila balay halin sa namatyan sa Brgy.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Michael Galera Millare, 29-anyos kag manghod nga si Sherwin Galera Millare, 25-anyos.
Pareho nga nag-angkon sang madamo nga igo sang bala sa lawas ang mag-utod.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sakay sa motorsiklo ang mag-utod sang ginbanggaan sang mga armado nga lalaki.
Nabatian pa sang mga residente ang serye sang lupok sang pusil.
Isa ka pumuluyo naman ang nakalabay sa lugar kag nadiskubrehan ang lawas sang mga biktima.
Wala pa sang natumod nga possible may kahimuan sang krimen.
Grade 6, ginkuga sang iya classmate kag nabalian pa sang siko
Nabali gid ang isa ka Grade 6 pupil matapos ginkuga sang iya classmate sa sulod mismo sang ila classroom sa Bugasong, Antique.
Base sa report, ginpasibangdan sang bata nga nagkuga nga ginsipa siya sang biktima.
Hinali lang nga ginsaruso sang bata ang biktima, kag ginkuga ini tubtob natumba kag nabali ang siko.
Nagtambag naman ang iban nga mga classmates kag nangayo sang bulig agud madala sa ospital ang biktima.
Nagpasalig naman ang pamunuan sang eskwelahan nga magabulig sa gasto sang naospital nga estudyante.
Ginpangayuan naman sang DepEd Schools Division Office sang paathag ang principal kag district supervisor sang Bugasong.
Ginpatawag man ang mga ginikanan sang duha ka mga involved nga estudyante.
Lalaki, gin-gulgulan sa liog matapos nanghurikap sa Sitio Moning
Napilasan sa liog ang isa ka construction worker matapos gin-gulgulan sang iya man kaupod matapos nanghukirap sa Sitio Moning, Barangay Cabadiangan, Sipalay City.
Ang biktima amo si Mark Talaver, 37-anyos, residente sang Barangay 5, Sipalay City.
Ang suspek naman amo si Christopher Ma-alat, 26-anyos, residente sang Barangay Cabadiangan sa amo nga syudad.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nag-ugat ang krimen matapos nagpanugid ang asawa sang suspek nga ginhurikap siya sang biktima.
Sang gab-i sang Enero 11 kun san-o natabo ang krimen, nagainom-inom sanday Talaver kag Ma-alat.
Didto na nagkuha ang suspek sang binangon kag gin-gulgulan ang biktima sa liog.
Matapos ang insidente, nagsungka man sa otoridad ang suspek.
Nadala naman sa balay- bululngan ang biktima kag yara na sa hilway nga kahimtangan.
Lapsag, ginbubuan sang nagaindakal nga tubig sang iya yaya
Makaluluoy subong ang sitwasyon sang isa ka lapsag matapos ginpaliguan sang nagaindakal nga tubig sang iya yaya sa Marikina City.
Ang lapsag amo si alyas “Marcus”, isa ka tuig ang edad samtang ang yaya sini amo si alyas “Ruby”, 57-anyos.
Gilayon nga gindala ang lapsag sa Amang Rodriguez Memorial Medical Cen­ter.
Makaligad ang duha ka adlaw, ginkinahanglan nga ipaidalom sa scraping ang nasunog nga panit kag kinahanglan man nga tuslukan sang pampatulog ang bata.
Nagdugang pa gid ang kabalaka sang mga ginikanan matapos ginsiling sang ospital nga indi nila masarangan ang nasambit nga procedure.
Suno sa ospital, tubtob sa 30% degree burn lang ang masarangan nila.
Nahibaluan nga 40% degree burns ang naangkon ni Marcus.
Nadismaya pa gid ang ospital nga ginhambalan sila nga mangita na lang sang lain nga ospital.
Manunudlo, ginkastigo sang iya estudyante sa ilimnan
Pilason ang isa ka manunudlo matapos ginkastigo sang isa sa iya mga estudyante samtang yara sa ilimnan sa Mondragon, Northern Samar.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Rohel”,45-anyos, residente sang Las Navas, Northern Samar.
Ang suspek amo si alyas “Jari”, 19-anyos, Grade 11 student, residente sang Barangay Zone 1, San Roque.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, sang nahubog na ang mga ini, hinali lang nga ginlampusan sang suspek ang biktima sa iya nawong kag ginsumbag sang makapila ka beses sa lawas.
Nagtambag naman ang isa nila ka upod nga si alyas “Bren”, 17-anyos.
Nagresponde naman ang mga tanod kag nadakpan ang suspek kag ginturn-over sa kapulisan.
Security guard, ginluthang samtang nagakatulog sa duyan
Patay ang isa ka gwardiya matapos gintiro samtang nagakatulog sa duyan sa gwa sang ila bunkhouse sa DBP Homes 2, Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si Romneck Rondubio, 29-anyos, residente sang Alabel, Sarangani.
Sa ulat ng General Santos City Police, ang biktima ay mahimbing na natutulog sa duyan nang bigla na lamang lapitan at pagbabarilin ng hindi nakilalang salarin.
Nag-angkon sang igo sang bala sa ulo ang biktima nga gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Wala pa nakilal-an kun sin-o ang nagtiro sa biktima.
Narekober naman sa crime scene ang isa ka basiyo sang bala sang cal 9 MM.
Tiyo, ginhatok-hatok labo ang 8-anyos nga hinablos nga nakaaway sang iya bata
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi kag puno sang pila tuga sang pagkalabo ang walo ka tuig nga Grade 3 pupil sa San Pablo City, Laguna.
Ang biktima amo si Gianni Rick Nodero, 8-anyos.
Suno sa amay sang biktima, ginahulat siya sang iya bata agud idul-ong niya ini apang hinali lang nga nadula ang biktima kag gindumdom sang amay nga nagdiretso ini pakadto sa ila eskwelahan.
Ginkatingala sang amay nga nabilin ang bag sang iya bata rason nga ginkulbaan sila kag ginpangita ang bata.
Indi makapati ang mga ini sang nakit-an ang biktima sa kahilamunan sa unhan sang ila balay nga nagapaligo ini sa kaugalingon nga dugo kag wala na sang kabuhi.
Base sa imbestigas­yon, may mga testigo nga nakakita sa tiyo sang bata nga antes ang krimen, ginabaid sini ang iya binangon.
Nakit-an man siya nga may mga dugo ang iya bayo.
Gin-alegar nga nag-away ang biktima kag ang bata sang suspek nga posible rason kun nga ginhimo sang tiyo ang amo nga krimen sa iya hinablos.
Gin-aresto ang tiyo kag magapangatubang sang kaso nga murder.
Hugot naman sini nga ginpanginwala nga siya ang nagpatay sa iya hinablos.
Suspek sa pag-utod sang ulo sang Grade 9 student, nadakpan
Nadakpan na sang otoridad ang lalaki nga nagapanguna nga suspek sa pagpatay sa isa ka 15-anyos nga Grade 9 student sa katubuhan sa Valencia City, Bukidnon.
Ang biktima nga si Jenniffer Encarnacion ang ginhimuslan kag gin-utdan pa sang ulo.
Ang suspek amo si Marlon Rosaot, residente sang Brgy.
Dagat Kidavao sang amo man nga probinsya.
Natultulan sang otoridad ang ginapanaguan sini sa kagulangan tubtob nga nakorner ini kag wala na nakapalagyo.
Nahibaluan nga gin-report nga missing sang Enero 6 ang biktima matapos wala ini nakapauli sa ila balay tubtob nga nakit-an ang lawas sini sang Enero 8.
Gin-utdan sang ulo kag ginhimuslan pa ang isa ka Grade 9 student sa isa ka katubuhan sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Ana”, 15-anyos, residente sang amo nga barangay.
Suno sa Bukidnon Police Provincial Office, Enero 6 pa na-missing ang dalagita kag Enero 8 na ini sang nakit-an nga wala na sang kabuhi.
Padayon naman ang imbestigasyon para makilala ang tawo sa likod sang krimen.
May gintanyag naman nga P200,000 reward sa sin-o man nga makatudlo sa tawo nga responsable sa pagpatay sa biktima.
Patay sa aksidente ang isa ka manunudlo kag ang iya bana matapos mabungguan sang dump truck ang ginasakyan nila nga tricycle sa Diversion Road nga sakop sang Brgy.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Jenefer Gubalani, public school teacher, kag bana nga si Junie nga isa ka tricycle driver kag lunsay residente sang amo nga barangay.
Base sa imbestigasyon, natabo sa kurbadahon nga bahin sang dala ang aksidente kun sa diin naglapaw sa pihak nga lane ang tricycle nga ginamaneho ni Junie gani nabungguan sang nagasugata nga truck.
Nag-angkon sang dalagko nga pilas ang mag-asawa nga gintunaan sang ila kamatayon.
Pilason naman ang isa pa ka sakay sang tricycle nga paryente sang mag-asawa.
Boluntaryo naman nga nagpaidalom sa kustodiya sang otoridad ang driver sang dump truck.
Duha ka tricycle drivers, patay sa bun-anay kag tiruhay sa agaway pasahero
Patay ang duha ka tricycle driver sa natabo nga lab-anay kag tiruhay bangud sa agaway sa pasahero sa Tondo, Manila.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday alyas “Marlon”, 21 kag alyas “Edmond”, 32, lunsay residente sang Tondo.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ginamaneho ni Marlon ang iya nga tricycle sang nasugata sanday Edmond kag isa ka alyas “Eugene” nga lunsay tricycle driver.
Gin-alegar nga ginpahog kag ginbuyayaw sang duha si Marlon kag sang hana na kuntani malagyo, ginpulihan ini sang mga suspek.
Ginlabo ni Edmond si Marlon kag gintiro pa ni Eugene.
May nakaresponde naman nga pulis kag naaktuhan pa ang krimen apang gintayaan siya sang pusil ni Eugene gani napilitan ini magbunot sang pusil kag nagpalupok kag naigo si Edmond.
Dead-on-the-spot si Marlon samtang nadala naman sa ospital si Edmond apang ginbawian man sang kabuhi.
Nakapalagyo naman si Eugene dala ang pusil nga gin-gamit sa pagluthang kay Marlon.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga antes ang krimen, nagbaisay si Marlon kag sanday Edmond kag Eugene bangud sa agaway sa pasahero kag posible amo ang rason kun ngaa natabo ang nasambit nga krimen.
Chief engineer sang barko, patay matapos nakadanlog
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang chief engineer sang isa ka barko matapos nga nakadanlog kag naglampos ang iya ulo sa salog sang engine room.
Natabo ini sa sulod sang barko sa Atimonan Port, sa Quezon Province.
Ang biktima amp si alyas “Franklin”, 72, residente sang Barangay Siko, Lipa City.
Matapos nakadanlog kag nalampos ang ulo, gindala pa sa ospital ang biktima apang wala na natabangan pa.
Dalagita, arestado sa pagbaligya sang lapsag online
Gindakop sang otoridad ang isa ka 17-anyos nga dalagita matapos ginbaligya online ang bata sini nga isa ka bulan pa lamang sa Quezon City.
Suno sa otoridad, nagabusong pa lang, na-monitor na nila sa social media post sang dalagita nga plano na niya ibaligya ang lapsag.
Una nga ginbaligya ini sang P50,000 apang nagsaka pa sa P55,000.
Nagpatigayon sang entrapment operation ang mga otoridad kag naaresto ang suspek.
Suno sa dalagita, nahimo lamang niya ini bangud indi pagbatunon sang iya pamilya ang bata kag bangud menor-de-edad pa ini kag 18-anyos pa lang ang amay.
Posible kasuhan ang nasambit nga dalagita sang paglapas sa Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act kag sa Special Protection of Children Against Abuse, Exploitation and Discrimination Act.
Nasalbar naman ang lapsag kag ginturn-over sa otoridad.
Babaye, nahulog gikan sa 29th floor sang condo
Patay ang isa ka 43-anyos nga babae matapos nahulog gikan sa ika-29 nga panalgan kag nagtupa sa swimming pool sa ikapito nga panalgan sang condominium sa Makati City.
Suno sa Makati City Police Station, nakibot na lang ang isa ka Australian national nga nagapaligo sa pool nga ma nahulog nga babaye.
Nangayo ini gilayon sang bulig kag sang ginrespondehan, conscious pa ang biktima apang makaligad ang 40 minutos, nalipong na ini.
Sang gindala siya sa Makati Medical Center, gindeklarar ini nga dead-on-arrival.
Sang ginlantaw ang unit ng biktima, may nakit-an nga 2 ka tabletas sang ginapatihan ecstacy.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon angot sa insidente.
Barangay kapitan kag pakaisa, patay matapos ginpangtiro
Patay ang isa ka punong barangay kag pakaisa sini matapos nga gintiro sa Rajah Buayan, Maguindanao del Sur sang Miyerkules.
Panadtaban Chairman Norodin Sindatukan Utto kag pakaisa nga si Arto Utto Mangilala.
Sakay sa motorsiklo ang duha sang ginpaarakan luthang sang wala pa nakilala nga mga suspek nga sakay man sa motorsiklo.
Pareho nga nag-angkon sang igo sang bala sa nanuhay-tuhay nga bahin sang lawas ang duha.
Padayon subong ang manhunt operation agud madakpan ang mga indibidwal nga nagpatay sa mga biktima.
Solterito, patay matapos naglumpat halin sa 5th floor sang isa ka mall
Patay ang 17-anyos nga solterito matapos naglumpat gikan sa ikalima nga panalgan sang isa ka mall sa Bacolod City.
Suno kay PCapt Efren Legada, station commander sang Bacolod Police Station 1, nag-agi ang solterito sa parking area pasaka sa ikalima nga panalgan kag naglumpat.
Patal nga pilas sa ulo ang naagom sang biktima nga gindala pa sa ospital apang gindeklarar nga patay.
Padayon pa nga ginahibalo sang otoridad ang rason kun ngaa ginhimo ini sang biktima.
Nahibaluan nga antes ang insidente, ginatinguhaan pa nga ma-contact ini sang pamilya apang wala sini ginasabat ang iya cellphone.
Kun ikaw (ukon kun may kilala ikaw nga) nagasuprer sang mental health problems kag nagakinahanglan sang bulig, palihog kontak sa sini nga mga numero:
Lalaki, aksidente nga natiruhan ang iya kinatawo
Naigo gid sang bala ang kinatawo sang isa ka lalaki sa Batangas matapos aksidente niya nga napitik ang gatilyo sang iya pusil.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, yara sa ilimnan ang 54-anyos nga biktima kag may ginasukbit ini nga converted caliber .22 handgun sang hinali ini nga naglupok.
Gilayon naman nga nadala sa ospital ang biktima.
Ginpahayag nga matapos ang insidente, gilayon man nga ginhaboy sang suspek ang iya pusil sa suba.
Padayon man ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad.
Barangay Kagawad, patay matapos ginpaarakan luthang
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang isa ka barangay kagawad matapos ginpaarakan luthang sang mga armado nga mga lalaki sa Lambayong, Sultan Kudarat.
Ang biktima amo si Kagawad Rolly Omar sang Barangay Sigayan.
Igo sang bala sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang iya lawas ang gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Sa subong, nagapabilin nga at large ang mga suspek.
Padayon man nga ginahibalo ang posible nga motibo sa insidente.
Bantay sang baligyaan sang manok, ginpatay sang kawatan
Patay na sang nakit-an ang bantay sang baligyaan sang manok sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Edison”, 48-anyos, may asawa, crew sang Five Star Chicken Store kag residente sang San Pablo, Laguna.
Aga na sang madiskubre sang kaupdanan sini sa trabaho ang lawas sang biktima nga nagapaligo sang dugo sa sulod sang tindahan.
Narekober naman ang kitchen knife nga may mga dugo pa sa sulod sang comfort room sang baligyaan.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang kapulisan sa insidente.
Snatcher nga nalagyo kag naglumpat sa suba, nalumos
Patay ang isa ka snatcher matapos nga naglumpat sa Pasig River agud palagyuhan ang mga lalaki nga nagalagas sa iya sa Binondo, Manila.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Mike”, 18-anyos, kag may rekord na sadto sa insidente sang pagpangawat sang cellphone.
Na-retrieve sang Philippine Coast Guard ang lawas sang biktima nga nagalutaw sa suba pila ka oras matapos ini naglumpat.
Base sa impormasyon, ang biktima kag ang isa pa ka lalaki ang ginlagas sang mga lalaki nga sakay sang isa ka kotse.
Agud makapalagyo ang duha, naglumpat sila sa suba apang ang isa lang ang nakatakas sa tubig kag ginapangita pa agud mapangayuan sang pahayag.
Punong Barangay sa Janiuay, dakop sa buy bust operation
Dakop sa drug buy bust operation nga ginpatigayon sang Provincial Drug Enforcement Unit (PDEU) ang Punong Barangay sang Canawili, Janiuay, Iloilo.
Ini amo si Alyas Jun-Jun, 51-anyos, kasado, kag isa ka High-Value Individual (HVI).
Nakuha sa iya ang 410 grams sang illegal nga droga nga may estimated standard drug price nga P2,788,000.00 kag marijuana nga may kabug-aton nga 8.2 grams nga nagabalor P4,100.00
Ang operasyon ginpangunahan ni Police Major Dadje Delima, head sang PDEU kaupod ang Janiuay Municipal Police Station.
Sa subong, preso na ang nasambit nga subject sa Janiuay MPS kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga paglapas sa RA 9165 ukon Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.
Bag-o bun-ag nga lapsag, ginkaon sang mag-iloy nga ido
[Warning: Ini nga balita ang nagaunod sang sensitibo nga mga detalye.]
Makaluluoy ang nadangtan sang isa ka bag-o ginbun-ag nga lapsag nga ginkaon sang mag-iloy nga ido sa Minglanilla, Cebu.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, una nga nakit-an ang utod nga ulo sang lapsag nga ginaangkab sang totoy.
Sunod naman nga nakit-an ang lawas sini nga ginakaon sang iloy nga ido.
Nakit-an man sa kahilamunan ang duster kag apron nga madamo sang dugo nga posible nga gin-gamit sa pagputos sa lapsag.
Ginahibalo pa kun buhi pa ang lapsag ukon patay na sang gin-angkab ini sang mag-iloy nga ido.
16-anyos nga Pinoy, padayon nga ginapangita matapos ang sunog sa bar sa Crans-Montana sa Switzerland sang Enero 1
Padayon sa karon nga ginapangita ang 16-anyos nga Pinoy nga si Kean Kaizer Talingdan sang mga awtoridad sa Switzerland matapos ang sunog nga nagluntad sa isa ka bar sa Crans-Montana sang Enero 1, 2026.
Nabilin sa sulod sang nasunog nga establisyemento ang cellphone kag iban pa nga personal nga kagamitan sang biktima, nga ginakabig subong kabahin sang imbestigasyon agud matukiban ang mga natabo antes ang sunog.
Wala sang opisyal nga kumpirmasyon sa karon nahanungod sa iya kahimtangan bangud ginahulat pa ang resulta sang DNA test.
Tuman ang pagkabalaka sa karon sang iloy ni Kean, nga padayon nga nagahulat sang klaro kag opisyal nga impormasyon halin sa mga awtoridad samtang nagalaum nga matagaan sang kasanag ang matuod nga natabo sa amo nga trahedya.
Lalaki, dakop sa akto nga “ginababoy”ang kanding
Dakop sa akto sang tag-iya sang kanding ang isa ka lalaki nga ginahimuslan ang amo nga sapat sa El Nido, Palawan.
Suno sa tag-iya sang sapat, nakita gid niya ang ginahimo sang suspek kag sang iya ini gintawag, madasig nga nalagyo ang suspek nga wala sang bayo.
Kaupod niya nga nalagyo ang ginapahayag nga lookout sini nga si Dodong.
Nadakpan si Dodong sa operasyon sang otoridad kag ginsaysay nga ginlagas ni JR ang kanding kag sang nadakpan niya, nag-uba ini sang bayo kag ginhimuslan ang kanding.
Padayon pa nga ginapangita sang otoridad ang suspek kag mangatubang sang kaso nga paglapas sa Republic Act No.
22 ka myembro sang pamilya, pilason sang new year matapos ginhabuyan granada
Pilason ang masobra 20 ka myembro sang isa ka pamilya sa Cotabato matapos ginhabuyan sang granada ang ila compound samtang nagakinasadya kadungan sang bag-ong tuig.
Natabo ini s Purok Ipil-Ipil, Barangay Dalapitan,sa banwa sang Matalam.
Suno sa imestigasyon, nagatipon na para sa media noche ang magpamilya sang hinali lang nga may naglupok.
May nakakita naman sa isa ka lalaki nga amo ang ginatudlo naghaboy sang granada sa compound sang mga biktima.
Madasig naman nga ginpangdala sa ospital ang mga biktima.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon kag nagapabilin naman nga at-large ang suspek.
Multicab nga puno sang pasahero, nahulog sa pil-as
Pilason ang 12 ka mga tawo kalakip na diri ang duha ka mga bata matapos nahulog sa pil-as ang ginasakyan nila nga multicab sa New Carmen, Tugbok District, Davao City.
Nagataklad sa mabudlay nga dalan ang salakyan sang hinali lang naguba ang makina sini kag nagdalus-os tubtob nahulog sa pil-as.
Kalakip sa pilaso amo ang duha ka bata nga nagaeda sang duha kag siyam ka tuig.
Gin-arkilahan lang ang multicab para gamiton sa paglagaw sang natabo ang aksidente.
Nagagwa sa imbestigasyon na mechanical problem ang rason sang disgrasya.
Magkasilingan nagbun-anay, nagmartilyuhanay bangud sa madugay na nga away
Patay ang isa ka lalaki matapos nga nagbun-anay kag nagmartilyuhanay sila sang iya kaingod-balay sa Purok-5, Brgy.
Ang napatay amo ang 53-anyos na si alyas Rosal nga nag-angkon sang madalom nga buno sa tiyan.
Ang suspek naman nga si alyas Niel, 47-anyos, ang nag-angkon sang pilas matapos ginmartilyo sa ulo.
Ginpahayag nga ginsulong sang biktima nga may dala nga martilyo ang balay sang suspek.
Nagbaisay ang duha tubtob ginlampusan sang biktima sang martilyo ang ulo ni Niel.
Nakabalos naman ini kag ginbuno si Rosal.
Nadala pa sa ospital ang biktima apang gindeklarar nga dead-on-arrival.
Manunudlo, nasapwan nga patay sa iya boarding house
Nakit-an nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka public school teacher sa sulod sang iya boarding house sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo ang 31-anyos nga si alyas “Jhanmar”.
Nadiskubre ang bangkay sang biktima matapos nagbalik sa boarding house ang isa ka boarder agud magdul-ong sang mga bayo nga ginpalabhan sang biktima.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, madugay ang pagpanuktok sang isa ka boarder tubtob nga napilitan ini nga buksan na lang ang pwertahan kag nakit-an nga nagahigda sa salog ang biktima.
Wala naman sang nakit-an nga foul play ang otoridad apang padayon ang imbestigasyon sa kamatayon sang manunudlo.
Gwardiya, nasapwan nga duguon kag wala na sang kabuhi sa ginabantayan nga eskwelahan
Nasapwan nga duguon kag wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka security guard sa ginabantayan sini nga eskwelahan sa Barangay Mamala 1, Sariaya, Quezon.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Ito”, 50-anyos, residente sang amo nga barangay.
Mismo ang janitor sang eskwelahan ang nakakita sa biktima sa guard house.
May nakit-an nga igo ang bala sa ulo kag lawas sini nga amo ang rason sang iya kamatayon.
Patay ang isa ka traffic enforcer matapos ginpaarakan sang luthang sang wala pa nakilal-an nga mga suspek kadungan sang bisperas sang bag-ong tuig sa Bagumbayan, Sultan Kudarat.
Ang biktima am si Ludivico Ramos Marzo, residente sang Barangay New Pangasinan, Isulan.
Sakay sa motorsiklo ang biktima kaupod ang iya anak sang ginsundan ini ang mga suspek nga nagasakay man sa motorsiklo kag gintiro sang makapila ka beses.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Padayon pa nga ginahibalo ang motibo kag ang pagpangita sa mga suspek.
Special Investigation Team, binuo kasunod ng pagkamatay ng isang bise-alkalde sa Iloilo
Bumuo ang mga awtoridad ng isang special investigation team upang imbestigahan at linawin ang mga pangyayari sa likod ng pagkamatay ng bise-alkalde ng Dueñas, Iloilo na sinasabing dulot ng aksidenteng pagputok ng baril.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo sa Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) Director na si Police Colonel Kim Legada, sinabi niyang siya mismo ang mangunguna sa naturang investigation team.
Ayon kay Legada, bagama’t sinasabing aksidenteng pagputok ng baril ang nangyari kay Vice Mayor Aimee Paz Lamasan, masusi pa rin itong iimbestigahan ng mga awtoridad.
Dagdag pa niya, kung may makitang ebidensiya na may naganap na foul play, sisiguruhin ng pulisya na may maisasampang kaso.
Nauna nang iniulat na naganap ang insidente sa isang residential village sa Barangay Tabuc Suba, La Paz, Iloilo City noong Disyembre 30.
Batay sa mga paunang report, naghahanda umano ng kanyang mga gamit ang bise-alkalde nang aksidente niyang nakalabit ang gatilyo ng kanyang baril, dahilan upang siya ay tamaan sa kanang bahagi ng kanyang tiyan.
Isinailalim pa sa operasyon si Lamasan, subalit binawian siya ng buhay noong Bisperas ng Bagong Taon habang patuloy na ginagamot sa ospital.
Probinsya sang Iloilo, nangin malinong kadungan sang pagsaulog sang bag-ong tuig suno sa IPPO
Nagpabilin ang kalinong sa kabug-usan nga probinsya sang Iloilo kadungan sang pagsaulog sang bag-ong tuig.
Suno kay Police Lieutenant Colonel Rolando Araño, spokesperson sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office, iya ginpakigbahin nga wala sang major nga insidente nga ginrespondehan ang kapulisan sa bug-os nga probinsya.
May yara man sang pila ka minor nga insidente nga na-record sa nagkalain-lain nga kabanwahanan, lakip na ang pagpamahog sang armas luthang sa banwa sang Sta.
Barbara kag komosyon sa banwa sang Pavia, nga gilayon man ginrespondehan sang kapulisan.
Araño nga indi matuod ang gin-alegar shooting incident sa banwa sang Dumangas.
Ginpaandaman man sang kapulisan ang publiko batok sa stray bullet incident nga natabo sa banwa sang Mina, kag ginpahayag nga magapangatubang sang mabug-at nga penalidad ang kun sin-o man ang madakpan nga nagapatigayon sang mga buluhaton nga makahalit sa seguridad sang publiko.
Pagsaulog sang bag-ong tuig sa siyudad sang Iloilo, nangin mahilway suno sa ICPO
Nangin mahilway ang pagsaulog sang bag-ong tuig sa siyudad sang Iloilo.
Suno kay Police Major Shiela Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang Iloilo City Police Office, wala sang daku nga insidente nga na-record ukon ginrespondehan ang mga kapulisan.
Ginpahayag niya nga daku nga bulig sa kalinong ang pagkumpiska sang ginadumilian nga palupok.
May yara naman san kabug-usan nga 843 ka mga ilegal nga palupok, kag 47 nga boga nga ginabanta nagabalor P34,900 pesos, ang nakuha sang pulisya sa siyudad.
Nagpasalig ang ICPO nga magapadayon ang ila operasyon sa pagmentenar sang kalinong, ilabi na sa nagahilapit nga Dinagyang Festival kag ASEAN Summit 2026.
Maximun Suggested Price Retail Price sang imported rice, magapabilin sa ₱43 kada kilo
Magapabilin sa ₱43 kada kilo ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) sang 5% broken imported rice samtang ginatapos sang gobyerno ang mga kinahanglanon nga proseso para sa pagtaas sang taripa sa pag-import sang bugas, suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco P.
Ginpahayag sang ahensya nga ginaplanuhan nga ipatuman sa Enero 16 ang pagtaas sang rice import duties halin sa 15% pakadto sa 20%, sunod sa regulatory kag procedural requirements.
Paathag pa ni Laurel nga kun mapatuman na ang mas mataas nga taripa, amo ang pagbuhat sang tikang kun may pagbag-o sa MSRP sang imported rice.
ang apat ka bulan nga moratorium sa pag-import sang bugas nga nagsugod sang Setyembre, agud suportahan ang farmgate prices sang mga mangunguma sa tunga sang wet-season harvest nga nagsugod sang Oktubre.
5 ka opisyal sang gobyerno lakip ang pila ka cabinet secretaries, ginaalegar nga naulamid sa iriguralidad sa 2025 national budget
Ginatudlo ang indi magnubo sa lima ka mga opisyal sang gobyerno, lakip ang pila ka Cabinet secretaries, nga gina-alegar naulamid sa ginahingadlan nga iregularidad sa 2025 national budget.
Suno kay Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo “Ping” Lacson, ang alegasyon ginabase sa mga dokumento nga ginatawag nga “Cabral files,” nga ginhalinan sang anay Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Undersecretary Catalina “Cathy” Cabral, nga suno pa kay Lacson ang handa na kun tani magbuyagyag sang impormasyon nahanungod sa anomalya sa flood control projects antes ini napatay.
Paathag ni Lacson nga ang mga dokumento nagalakip sang mga ngalan sang pila ka Cabinet secretaries nga may allocable kag non-allocable funds sa 2025 budget, lakip ang anay DPWH Secretary Manuel Bonoan, nga gin-alegar nga isa sa may pinakadako nga alokasyon.
Dugang pa, ginpahayag nga ang mga dokumento ginakaangut sa ₱50 bilyon nga unprogrammed funds, nga kabahin sini ginhalinan sang mga flood control projects.
Kun mapamatud-an ang pagka-authentic sang mga dokumento, mahimo ipatawag ang mga opisyal nga ginahingadlan, sa imbestigasyon sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee para sa ila padayon nga kawsa nga mapanabat ang tanan nga korap sa gobyerno kag mabalik ang kwarta nga ila ginkawat.
Anay DPWH usec Cabral, handa na kun tani magbuyag-yag sang mga impormasyon sa mga anomalya sa flood control projects antes ini napatay
Handa na kun tani nga magbuyag-yag sang impormasyon ang anay Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Undersecretary Catalina “Cathy” Cabral nahanungod sa ginahingadlan nga anomalya sa flood control projects antes siya napatay.
Suno kay Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo “Ping” Lacson, iya ginpahayag nga nakig-angut sa iya si Cabral kag nagpahayag sang kahandaang nga maghatag sang dokumento may kaangtanan sa Special Allotment Release Orders (SARO) kag ginahingadlan nga ₱50 Billion nga unprogrammed fund insertions sa national budget.
Dugang pa sini nga ang ginatawag nga “Cabral files” nagalakip sang mga ngalan sang pila ka Cabinet secretaries nga may allocable kag non-allocable funds sa 2025 budget, upod ang anay DPWH Secretary Manuel Bonoan nga gina-alegar nga isa sa may pinakadako nga alokasyon.
May yara man sang ginapahayag nga pondo nga ginhalinan sang liderato sang Kamara kag pila ka party-list representatives.
Ginpahayag ni Lacson nga ang mga dokumento mahimo pa ma-authenticate sang Department of Budget and Management kag DPWH, kag kun mapamatud-an, mahimo ipatawag ang mga opisyal nga naulamid sa imbestigasyon sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee.
Matandaan man nga si Cabral ang ginapahayag napatay matapos mahulog sa Pil-as sa bahin sang Kennon Road sa Tuba, Benguet sang Disyembre 18.
Pulis sa Estancia, Iloilo, gin-alegar nga nagpinalupok kag nangastigo sa Christmas Party
Nagapangatubang subong sang kaso-kriminal ang isa ka pulis matapos nagpinalupok kag nangastigo sa isa ka sibilyan kadungan sang Christmas party sa Estancia, Iloilo.
Sa panaysayon sang mga testigo, hinali lang nagpalupok sang pila ka beses sang iya pusil ang suspek rason nga napuno sang kahadlok ang mg tawo sa party.
Isa naman ka sibilyan ang ginkastigo sini kag madasig nga naghalin sa lugar matapos ang insidente.
Babaye sa Pavia, naigo sang bala matapos nagpalupok sang pusil ang iya tupadbalay
Sa baylo nga kalipay, nabutang pa sa peligro ang kabuhi sang isa ka residente sang Pal-agon, Pavia, Iloilo matapos naigo sang bala sa tunga sang selebrasyon sang Paskwa.
Ang biktima amo si AJ, 25, residente sang nasambit nga lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay PLtCol Rolando Araño, spokesperson sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office, iya ginpahayag nga base sa imbestigasyon, yara sa gwa sang ila balay ang biktima kaupod ang iban nga myembro sang iya pamilya.
Sunod-sunod nga lupok ang ila nabatian kag gindumdom nila nga lunsay firecrackers lang ini apang hinali lang nga may nag-igo na sa tiil sang biktima kag nakit-an nga nagdugo.
Sang nagresponde naman ang otoridad, naabtan nila sa lugar ang ginatudlo nga suspek na si alyas Dayon, 37-anyos, nga nag-ako man nga siya ang nagpalupok sang pusil.
Suno pa sa impormasyon, sa kada may maglupok nga libentador, nagabalos ang suspek paagi sa pagpalupok sang pusil.
Gilayon naman nga gin-aresto ang suspek kag mangatubang sang kaso nga Reckless imprudence resulting in physical injury kaangot sa RA 10591 ukon ang Comprehensive Firearms and Ammunition Regulation Act.
4 patay, 23 pilason matapos mahulog sa pil-as ang bus
Patay ang apat ka tawo kag pilason ang 23 ka iban pa matapos mahulog ang isang de-pampasahero nga bus sa pil-as sa Andaya Highway, Brgy.
Magais 1, Del Gallego, Camarines Sur kaina sang kaagahon.
Halin sa Cubao, Quezon City kag padulong sa Gubat, Sorsogon ang bus sang natabo ang insidente.
Ginabantan nga nagataas sang 10 ka metros ang pil-as.
Tatlo sa mga napatay ang babaye kag isa ang lalaki.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad.
Barangay kapitan kag bodyguard, arestado sa kaso nga estafa kag illegal possession of loose firearms
Arestado ang isa ka 57-anyos nga punong barangay kag ang iya private bodyguard sa ginpatigayon nga entrapment operation sa Brgy.
Gindakop mismo ang mga ini sa barangay hall matapos nga nagreklamo ang ila nga biktima.
Ginpahayag nga nagabaligya ang kapitan sang isa ka real property nga wala man sini ginapanag-iyahan samtang ang bodyguard naman ang nagabaton sang bayad halin sa kliyente.
Matapos ang imbestigasyon, natukiban man nga nagapanag-iya ang mga ini sang caliber 9mm kag caliber 40 pistol.
Nagapangatubang ang mga arestado sang kaso nga Estafa kag Illegal Possession of Loose Firearms.
Pulis, patay matapos gintiro samtang yara sa namatyan
Napatay ang isa ka pulis matapos nga gintiro ini samtang yara sa isa ka namatyan sa Barangay Tipanoy, Iligan City.
Ang biktima isa ka miyembro sang Iligan City Mobile Force Company.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga hinali lang nga ginpalapitan sang suspek ang biktima kag makapila ka beses nga gintiro.
Ginahibalo pa sang otoridad ang motibo sa pagpangluthang.
PDL, ginpahayag nagpanginmatay sa BJMP-Male Dorm sa Pototan; pamilya, indi kumbinsido
Indi kumbinsido ang pamilya sang isa ka Person Deprived of Liberty (PDL) sa sulod sang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology- Male Dormitory sa Nanga, Pototan, Iloilo nga nagpanginmatay ini.
Ang PDL amo si alyas “Christian”, 33 anyos, nga napreso sang nagligad lang nga Nobyembre angot sa kaso nga may kahilabtanan sa illegal drugs.
Base sa impormasyon, isa ka nurse sa isolation facility ang nakakita sa amo nga PDL nga nagatindog apang nagapiyong ang mata.
Nahibaluan nga sa isolation facility ginbutang ang amo nga PDL bangud may indi kinaandan sa iya hulag kag aktwasyon.
Matapos makit-an sang nurse, madasig man ini nga gindala sa ospital sa Barotac Nuevo apang ginbawian gid ini sang kabuhi.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay alyas “Pau”, pakaisa sang PDL, iya ginpahayag nga kwestyonable para sa ila ang pahayag sang pamunuan sang BJMP.
Ini bangud nga wala man sang napakita nga mga ebidensya ukon mga letrato sang ila himata antes ini gindala sa ospital.
Suno kay Pau, may nakit-an man nga mga lagob sa iya lawas partikular sa kamot kag dulunggan.
Dugang ni Pau, nakasugid man sa ila si Christian nga ginapabudlayan siya sa sulod sang pasilidad.
Pahayag pa niya, may yara man sang gusto pa gid isugid si Christian apang kaangay nga nahadlok ini.
Apisar nga napaidalom na sa autopsy ang lawas kag naggwa nga positibo nga nagpanginmatay gid man ini, padayon gihapon nga nagapangita sang kaathagan ang mga himata.
Apang gintuad niya nga nakaagi naman sadto nga gintuyo sang iya pakaisa nga utason ang iya kabuhi.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay alyas “Fatima” nga utod ni Christian, ginkumpirma man niya nga asset ini sang pulis sadto.
Suno sa iya, ikaduha na ini nga tion nga nadakpan bangud man sa iligal nga druga apang nakagwa paagi sa plea bargaining agreement.
Pari nga nanghimulos sa menor de edad, may sentensya nga 120 ka tuig nga pagkapreso
Ginpamatbatan sang reclusion perpetua ukon 20 tubtob 40 ka tuig nga pagkapreso sa kada count sang ‘rape’ ang isa ka pari bangud sa paghimulos sa isa ka 16-anyos nga estudyante.
Batolne, nga gindagdagan sang sentensiya ni Presiding Judge Modesto D.
Natabo ang paghimulos sa kwarto nga ginatiniran sang dalagita sa sulod sang compound sang Diocese sang Baguio sang Marso 2023.
Sang amo nga tion, si Batolne ang finance administrator sang Diocese sang Baguio.
Napamatud-an nga guilty ang pari sa idalom sang Articles 266-A kag 266-B sang Revised Penal Code kun sa diin napamatud-an nga naggamit ini sang kutsilyo agud pahugon ang dalagita.
Anom ka beses nga natabo ang pagpanghimulos sang Marso 2023.
Sa kada kaso, 20 ka tuig ang katumbas nga pagkapreso gani magalawig sang kabilugan nga 120 ka tuig ang iya sentensya.
Magluwas sa pagkapreso, pabaydon man ini sang ₱225,000 bilang danyos sa biktima.
Grade 3 pupil, nahulog sa school building kadungan sang ila Christmas party
Nag-angkon sang malala nga pilas kag ginkinahanglan nga magpaidalom sa operasyon ang isa ka Grade 3 pupil nga nahulog sa ila school building.
Natabo ang insidente sa Bayanan Elementary School Unit 1 sa Barangay Bayanan, Muntinlupa samtang may Christmas party sa eskwelahan sang Disyembre 19.
Suno sa pamunuan sang eskwelahan, nagsulod ang bata sa isa ka sirado nga bahin sang ikaduha nga panalgan nga may bukas nga alagyan panaog sa una nga panalgan rason nga nahulog ini.
Madasig man nga gindala sa ospital ang bata.
Ginpanginwala naman sang eskwelahan ang mga alegasyon sang pagpabaya.
Nagpakig-angot na ang Department of Education sa pamunuan sang buluthuan agud imbestigahan ang insidente.
Bata nga may dala nga ₱500, gin-hostage sang adik
Nangin makahalawat-hawat ang eksena sa Barangay Sabala Manao Proper, Marawi City, Lanao del Sur matapos gin-hostage sang isa ka adik ang bata nga babaye.
Base sa impormasyon, nagalakat lamang ang bata nga babaye sang hinali lang nga ginbutong ini sang suspek.
Ginpahayag nga nakit-an sang hostage-taker ang dala nga ₱500 paper bill sang bata gani iya ini gintuyo nga agawon.
Hinali niya nga ginkup-an ang bata kag gintayaan niya sang kutsilyo sa liog.
Sa dalayon nga pagnegosyar, isa ka pulis ang nagdesisyon nga tiruhon ang suspek sang hana na kuntani sini nga gulgulan sa liog ang bata.
Gilayon naman nga gindala sa ospital ang bata nga nakaangkon sang mga pilas.
Gindeklarar naman nga patay ang suspek bangud sa naangkon nga igo sang bala sa iya guya kag butkon.
5-anyos nga bata ginhimuslan, ginhigtan sang charger sa liog
Patay na sang nasapwan ang lima ka tuig nga bata nga babaye nga nasulod sa sako sa kilid sang karsada sa Barangay Maria, Sto.
Tomas City, Batangas sang Sabado sang aga.
Ang bata biktima sang paghimulos kag ginhigtan pa sang kable sang charger ang iya liog.
Suno sa tiya sang biktima, ulihi nga nakit-an ang iya hinablos sang Biyernes sang aga apang pagkagab-i, wala ini makapauli gani nangayo sila sang bulig sa barangay.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, didto na nakit-an ang iya lawas nga wala na sang kabuhi.
Tomas Police, madasig nga naaresto ang duha ka lalaki nga suspek.
Ini matapos nakit-an sa isa ka CCTV footage nga nagsulod ang biktima sa balay sang isa sa mga suspek nga si alyas “Leo” kag wala na nakagwa pa ang bata.
Sa dugang nga pag-review sa CCTV, nakita ang paggwa sang suspek nga may bitbit na nga sako nga unod ang lawas sang bata.
Nag-ako si alyas Leo sa krimen kag gintudlo si alyas “Jay” nga kaupod sini rason nga nadakpan sila nga duha.
Nakuha pa kay “Jay” ang anom ka plastic sachet sang shabu.
Bus driver, buka ang ulo matapos gintiro sang pasahero
Patay ang isa ka dri­ver sang depampasahero nga bus matapos nga gintiro sa ulo sang pasahero sa Antipolo City.
Ang biktima amo si “Jefferson”, legal ang edad, kag residente sang Barangay Bagong Nayon sa amo nga syudad.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagpara ang gunman kag pagsaka sa bus, namangkot ini kun tag-pila ang plete kag sang nagsabat ang driver, didto na ini gintiro sang suspek sa ulo.
Madasig nga nanaog ang gunman kag nagsakay sa get-away motorcycle.
Padayon ang imbestigasyon para makilala ang mga suspek kag matumod ang motibo sa krimen.
Magpamilya, patay sa bungguanay sang van kag motorsiklo
Patay ang tatlo ka myembro sang isa ka pamilya samtang pilason naman ang isa pa matapos ginbungguan sang van ang ila ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sa Pola, Ori*ntal Mindoro.
Lunsay gindeklarar nga dead-on-arrival sa ospital ang 34-anyos nga asawa, bana nga 35-anyos kag ila nga anak nga 10-anyos.
Ang mga ini ang residente sang Barangay Pahilahan, Pola, Ori*ntal Mindoro.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, madasig ng dalagan sang van sang ginbungguan ang motorsiklo sang mga biktima.
Idul-ong kuntani sang bana ang iya asawa kag ila anak sa transport terminal padulong sa Calapan City sang natabo ang aksidente.
Padulong naman sa Socorro ang 39-anyos nga driver sang van agud sugaton ang iya nga asawa.
Base sa CCTV footage, madasig ang dalagan sang van sa aspaltado nga porsyon.
Sang amo nga tion, madanlog ang dalan bangud sa pag-ulan.
Naaresto na ang driver sang van kag mangatubang sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in multiple homicide kag damage to property.
Hepe nga nagkastigo sa patrolman, ginkakas sa pwesto
Ginkakas sa puwesto ang hepe sang Philippine National Police – Highway Patrol Group (PNP-HPG) Investigation Management Division bangud sa pagkastigo sa isa ka patrolman sa sulod sang Camp Crame.
Hansel Marantan, ginahanda naman ang kaso nga administratibo kag criminal batok sa nasambit nga hepe nga may ranggo nga colonel.
Nakuhaan sang video ang pagkastigo, pagtaya sang pusil kag pagpahog niya sa biktima.
Ginpahayag nga natabo ang insidente sang Disyembre 16 sang gab-i pagkatapos sang ila nga Christmas Party.
Suno sa biktima, halos 30 minutos siya nga ginkastigo sang hepe.
Gin-alegar naman sang suspek nga masami siya ginabastos sang biktima.
Ginpanginwala naman sang biktima ang alegasyon sang suspek.
Backrider nga nahulog sa motor, patay matapos ginlasak sang truck
Patay ang isa ka backrider matapos nga nahulog sa motorsiklo nga ginlasak sang nagasunod nga 10-wheeler truck.
Natabo ini sa Cagayan Valley Road, Brgy.Sapang Putol, San Ildefonso, Bulacan.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Darwin” kag residente sang Pinyahan, Quezon City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, naglikaw sa gubaon nga porsyon sang karsada ang rider apang hinali lang nag-overtake ang isa pa gid ka motorsiklo kag nagbunggo gid sa motor nga ginaangkasan sang biktima.
Sang nahulog ang backrider, natabuan man nga may nagapadulong nga 10-wheeler truck kag nabungguan ang biktima.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital apang gindeklarar ini nga dead-on-arrival.
16 ka pulis nga nagpahubog sa police station, ginkakas sa pwesto
Ginkakas na sa puwesto ang 16 ka mga pulis kalakip na ang ila nga hepe matapos nga ma-involve sa ‘drinking session’ sa ila ‘Christmas party’ sa sulod sang police station sa Dolores, Eastern Samar.
Suno kay P/Lt.Col.Analiza Armeza, spokesperson sang Police Regional Office (PRO) 8, may ranggo nga Police Captain ang hepe sang Dolores Municipal Police Station.
Ginkakas ang hepe bangud sa prinsipyo sang ‘command responsibility’ nga ginapatuman sang organisasyon.
Base sa imbestigasyon, natabo ang insidente samtang naka-duty ang mga pulis sang Disyembre 15.
Ang pag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon samtang yara sa duty ang hugot nga ginadumilian sa mga police premises sa idalom sang regulasyon kag protocols sang PNP.
Pasahero sang jeep, naigo sang nagtalang nga bala
Duguon nga gindala sa ospital ang isa ka pasahero sang jeep matapos maigo sang nagtalang nga bala sang airsoft gun sa Binangonan, Rizal.
Suno kay Jacobo, gindumdom niya nga may naghaboy lang sa iya likod apang sang iya ini ginhikap, nakibot ini nga may dugo na ang iya kamot.
Gindala ini sang driver sang jeep sa police outpost kag gindiretso sa ospital.
Sa X-ray nakumpirmar nga airsoft gun pellet ang nag-igo sa iya.
Nagapasalamat man ini nga indi siya sa ulo naigo.
Natalana naman ini nga ipaidalom sa operasyon para makuha ang bala.
Tricycle driver, patay matapos mapit-alan sang elf
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang driver sang tricycle matapos nga mapit-alan sang Isuzu elf nga natumba sa national highway sa Maddarulog, Enrile, Cagayan.
Base sa imbestigasyon, hinali lang nga naglikaw ang elf sa tigulang nga nagatabok sa karsada kag natumba gid ini tubtob nga nalab-ot ang tricycle nga may sakay nga duha ka tawo.
Napit-alan ang driver sang triycle kag bangud sa ulo gid ang igo, wala na ini makaluwas.
Nalab-ot man ang tigulang kag nag-angkon sang pilas sa lawas.
Nahibaluan nga ang elf ang naga-deliver sang tilapia kag halin ini sa Baggao kag pabalik na kuntani sa Ifugao.
77-anyos nga lola, gin-gulgulan sa liog sang iya bana
Patay ang isa ka 77-anyos nga lola matapos nag-angkon sang mga pilas sang pagkabuno sa iya lawas.
Natabo ang krimen sa ila balay sa Barangay Santo Domingo, Cainta, Rizal.
Ang suspek amo ang bana sini nga 81-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nabatian sang anak sang biktima ang pag-inaway sang iya ginikanan.
Makaligad ang pila ka minutos, nagasinggit kag nagapangayo sang bulig ang biktima.
Sang nanaog ang anak, didto na niya nakit-an nga duguon ang iya iloy kag may pilas sa liog.
Ginauyatan naman sang mister nga suspek ang kutsilyo.
Gindakop naman ang suspek kag mangatubang sang kaso nga parricide.
Dalagita sa party, ginbutong kag ginhimuslan
Arestado ang 38-anyos nga lalaki matapos gindala kag ginhimuslan ang isa ka dalagita nga nakilala sa isa ka party sa Makati City.
Ang suspek amo si alyas “Bonifacio”, residente sang Barangay Pembo, Makati City samtang ang biktima nagaedad sang 15-anyos.
Base sa reklamo, kaupod sang dalagita ang iya mga abyan sa isa ka party sa Brgy.
Sang nakita ini sang suspek, ginbutong niya ini kag gindala sa apartelle kag didto ginhimuslan.
Ginpasakaan ini sang reklamo nga statutory rape.
5 patay sa shootout matapos nagbato sa otoridad
Patay ang lima ka indibidwal nga ginapatihan nga drug personalities sang nagbato sa mga pulis matapos ginserbehan sang warrant of arrest sa Kabacan, Cotabato.
Kalakip sa napatay ang isa ka aktibo nga commander sang Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF).
April Loue Palma, hepe sang Kabacan Municipal Police Station, hinali nga nagpalupok sang pusil ang mga suspek batok sa mga otoridad samtang pasulod pa lamang sa lugar nga nagresulta sa pagbalusay sang lupok.
Target sa amo nga operasyon ang walo ka wanted nga drug personalities.
Kalakip sa target sang warrant amo sanday Ibrahim Macalnas alyas “Kumander Bigkog” nga commander sang MILF; mga kaupod nga sanday Datukan Macalnas kag Ismael Luncayao kag duha ka iban pa.
Gilayon nga napatay sa shootout ang lima.
May isa naman nga kaupod sang mga ini ang naaresto kag may tatlo nga nakapalagyo.
Narekober sa lugar ang isa ka granda, mga armas kag mga bala.
“Termite gang”, ginalantaw utok sa pagpangawat sa Jewelry shop kag Money Changer sa GT Mall Pavia
Ginransak ang isa ka jewelry shop kag Money Changer sa sulod sang isa ka mall sa Pavia, Iloilo kaina sang aga.
Suno kay Police Colonel Bayani Razalan Director sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO), temporaryo nga ginpauntat sang management ang pagpasulod sang mga shoppers sa mall agud mapadasig ang imbestigasyon sang kapulisan.
Razalan nga tatlo ang ginalantaw suspek sa nasambit nga pagpangransak kag ginapatihan miyembro sang ginatawag nga “termite gang.” Suno sa imbestigasyon, posible nga nag-agi ang mga suspek sa tiles ukon salog sang isa ka massage center.
Una nga ginsulod ang jewelry shop nga nakuhaan sang madamo nga mga alahas, sunod naman nga ginkawatan ang isa ka money changer nga ginabanta nagabalor sang kapin P500,000 nga kwarta ang nataban.
Padayon sa karon ang imbestigasyon sang kapulisan paagi sa pag-review sa mga CCTV sa lugar, agud matumod ang mgaindibidwal sa likod sang nasambit nga pagpangawat.
Samtang, sa separado nga interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Francis George Gorriceta, Executive Assistant to the Mayor sang Pavia, nga ginapanag-iyahan sang pamilya Gorriceta ang jewelry shop nga ginransak.
Suno kay Gorriceta, posible nga natabo ang krimen kahapon sang gab-i kag nagpalagyo ang mga suspek kaagahon na sang aga.
Dugang pa sini, nagakoordinar na sila sa kapulisan agud madakpan ang mga responsable sa pagpangawat nga ginatawag “termite gang.”
Barangay Kapitan nga drug pusher, arestado
Arestado ang isa ka punong barangay kag ang kaupod sini bangud sa pagduso sang iligal nga droga sa Barangay Roxas, sa Sulop, Davao del Sur.
Ang nadakpan amo si alyas “Kap,” 36, kag kaupod nga si “Dionisio” nga nakuhaan sang isa ka plastic sachet sang shabu nga nagabalor ₱8,000.
Nakuha pa gid sa ila ang dugang nga apat ka plastic sachet sang shabu nga nagabug-at sang 23 gramos kag street value nga ₱156,400.
Pasakaan ang mga ini sang kaso nga paglapas sa RA 9165.
Pilason ang tatlo ka menor de edad kag isa ka 49-anyos nga lalaki sa bungguanay sang motorsiklo kag e-bike sa Santa Catalina, Ilocos Sur.
Base sa imbestigasyon, halin sa nagkalain-lain nga direksyon ang e-bike nga sakay ang tatlo ka menor de edad nga estudyante kag ang motorsiklo nga ginamaneho sang 49-anyos.
Pag-abot sa intersection, didto na natabo ang bungguanay.
Ginpangdala sa ospital ang sakay sa e-bike nga mga biktima nga lunsay high school students.
1 patay sa pagbunggo sang jeep sa tatlo ka salakyan
Patay ang isa ka 29-anyos nga rider matapos ginbungguan sang isa ka depampasahero nga jeepney ang duha ka motorsiklo kag isa ka AUV sa Binangonan, Rizal.
Ang napatay amo si alyas “Raemon Joyce” nga nagamaneho sang Yamaha Aerox.
Pilason man ang isa ka rider nga si alyas “Jhoen” kag ang isa ka driver sang AUV nga nabungguan.
Arestado naman ang driver sang dyip kag magapangatubang sang mga kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in homicide, serious physical injuries kag damage to property.
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka 37-anyos nga babaye nga BPO worker sa Barangay Indahag, Cagayan de Oro City.
May mga pilas ini tuga sang pagkabuno partikular sa iya liog.
Suno sa otoridad, nag-abot sa lugar ang bana sang biktima kag nagahilibion sang makita ang lawas sang iya nga misis.
Sang ulihi, gin-ako sini nga siya ang nagpatay sa biktima.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga nagbaisay ang mag-asawa antes ang krimen.
Ginalantaw nga pagpangimon ang posible nga motibo sa pagpatay.
Ginahibalo pa kun naggamit sang ilegal nga droga ang suspek sang natabo ang pagpatay niya sa iya asawa.
Air Force officer, gintiro sang pulis nga “other man” sang iya asawa
“Love triangle” ang ginalantaw nga anggulo kun ngaa gintiro sang isa ka pulis ang isa ka officer sang Philippine Air Force (PAF) sa Zamboanga.
Roliver Anang, 41-anyos, nga yara sa kritikal nga kondisyon.
Base sa imbestigasyon, pakadto sa trabaho si Anang sang nasiplatan sini ang salakyan sang iya nga misis nga si Daisy nga nakaparada sa gwa sang isa ka apartment.
Nagpundo ini kag makaligad ang pila ka minutos, nakita niya nga naggwa ang misis kag kaupod ang suspek.
Nakita man sang asawa ang iya bana kag nagbalik naman sa apartment ang pulis.
Pagbalik sini sa gwa, may dala na ini nga pusil kag gintiro si Anang.
Madasig nga nalagyo ang suspek sakay sa motorsiklo apang natigayon man nga nadakpan.
Boarding house, hungod nga ginsunog; isa ka boarder, patay
Isa ka babaye ang patay sa sunog nga naglamon sa isa ka boarding house kag iban pa nga balay sa Brgy.
Ang napatay nga biktima amo si Lorina Tupaz, 50-anyos.
Nasapwan ang sunog nga lawas sini sa CR sang boarding house.
Napalong na ang kalayo sang nahibaluan sang Puerto Princesa Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) nga may missing nga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga ang pagkasunog sang boarding house ang nagresulta man sa pagkasunog sang 21 ka mga balay kun sa diin 87 ka pamilya ang nadulaan sang ilistaran.
May ginakabig na nga suspek nga gintudlo sang mga residente kag yara na ini sa kustodiya sang kapulisan.
Antes ang sunog, nagapangayo na sang relocation sa barangay ang suspek bangud apat ka bulan na nga wala nakabayad sa ginaarkilahan nga kwarto.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga ginbasa sang suspek ang cellphone charger kag ginsaksak sa kuryente nga amo ang ginapatihan ginhalinan sang sunog.
Sang nasunog na ang balay, nakit-an nga kompleto ang mga gamit nga dala sini rason nga gindudahan nga siya ang may kahimuan sang pagsunog sa boarding house.
Mag-utod nga kilala sa pagbulig away batok sa illegal activities, gin-ambush
Patay ang mag-utod nga kilala sa pagbulig sa away batok sa illegal activities sa ila nga lugar matapos sila nga gin-ambush sa Brgy.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Arnel Zabila Anas, 20-anyos, kag ang iya magulang nga si Joemar, 24-anyos, lunsay residente ng Barangay Sigayan sa amo nga banwa.
Nagaangkasanay sa motorsiklo ang mag-utod kag pauli na halin sa paglantaw sang basketball game sang ginbanggaan kag ginpaarakan luthang ang mga ini.
Madasig naman nga nakapalagyo ang mga tawo nga responsable sa ambush.
Ginatinguhaan naman sang mga pulis nga matumod ang mga kriminal.
Rape with Homicide, ginpasaka sa lolo nga naghimulos sa iya apo sa Lambunao
Natigayon na nga mapasaka ang kaso nga rape with homicide batok sa lolo sang pito ka tuig nga bata nga babaye nga ginhimuslan, ginhigtan ang liog kag ginsulod sa sako sa Brgy.
Winston Biadog, hepe sang Lambunao Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga ang iloy amo ang nagtindog bilang complainant kag ginahulat pa nga maggwa ang warrant of arrest.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Bebe, pito ka tuig ang edad, kag nasapwan sang iya nga lola sa ila banyo nga nasulod sa sako kag wala na sang pang-idalom nga panapton.
Matandaan nga sa ginpatigayon nga autopsy, nakita nga ang gintunaan sang kamatayon sang biktima amo ang pagkakuga.
Ginkumpirma man sang otoridad nga may natabo man nga sexual abuse sa bata.
Holocaust survivor, isa sa mga napatay sa terror attack sa Bondi Beach, Australia
Tuman ang kasubo sang asawa sang isa ka Holocaust survivor nga nadulaan sang kabuhi matapos ang terror attack sa Bondi Beach, Australia kahapon nga adlaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Demark Suede, Bombo Correspondent sa Australia iya ginpakigbahin nga isa sa napatay amo si Alexander Kleytman nga isa ka Holocaust survivor, kag nagpadulong sa Australia bilang mga imigrante halin sa Ukraine agud magsugod sang panibag-o nga kabuhi kaupod ang iya pamilya, apang sa isa lamang ka pisok nangin masakit nga trahedya ang sa karun pilit nga ginabaton sang iya pamilya, ilabi sa sang iya asawa nga nasaksian ang iya kamatayon.
Sa panaysayon sang asawa ni Kleytman, nagatindog lamang ang mga ini sang may nabatian sila nga gunshot kadungan sang pagkatumba sang pila ka mga indibidwal.
Didto kag nagpalapit si Kleytman sa iya asawa agud protektahan ini kag sa malain nga palad ang naigo sang pagpaniro sang duha ka suspek.
Padayon pa subong ang imbestigasyon sang mga otoridad sa insidente nga nagbilin sang tuman nga kasubo indi lamang sa Jewish community kundi sa bug-os nga pungsod sang Australia.
Napatay gid ang isa ka former punong barangay matapos ginpaulanan sang bala sa Isabela City, Basilan sang Huwebes, Disyembre 11.
Ang mga responsable sa pagpangluthang, wala pa makilal-an.
Ang biktima amo si Hadji Malik Aru, sang Barangay Mangalut sa banwa sang Akbar.
Suno sa Isabela City Police Station, sakay sa motorsiklo ang biktima sang ginpaarakan luthang.
Multicab nga pakadto sa patyo, nadisgrasya; walo ka sakay, patay
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang walo ka ka tawo samtang apat naman ang pilason matapos nagub-an sang preno kag nagbaliskad ang isa ka multicab sa Ayungon, Negros Orient*l.
Base sa imbestigasyon, pakadto sa patyo agud magduaw sa ila abyan ang mga biktima sang natabo ang insidente sa Sitio Tumampon, Barangay Tiguib.
Ang mga napatay amo ang mga pasahero nga sanday Edwin Deguit Sr, Zenaida Sabanal, Libby de Jesus, Ernesta Villasco, Annabelle Devero, Chinly Magalso, Artillana Deguit kag Elphy Deguit nga lunsay gindeklarar nga dead on arrival sa ospital.
Ginbawian naman sang kabuhi samtang ginabulong sa ospital ang duha ka iban pa.
Nakaluwas naman sa trahedya ang driver nga si Juan Maratas Lopez, 56 anyos, residente sang Barangay Bagacay, Dumaguete City.
Magluwas sa iya, nakasalbar man ang tatlo ka iban pa kalakip na ang isa ka 13-anyos nga ginabulong pa sa ospital.
7-anyos nga bata, ginhimo sex slave sang iya stepfather
Arestado ang isa ka 39-anyos nga stepfather sang isa ka pito ka tuig nga biktima nga ginhimo niya nga sex slave.
Gindakop ang suspek nga si alyas “Marbi” sa kaso nga qualified rape of a minor sa gahom sang warrant of arrest na inilabas ng Presiding Judge ng Family Court, Branch 5, Mandaluyong City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ginhimo nga sex slave sang suspek ang bata umpisa sa Septyembre 2015 tubtob Enero 2016.
Suno sa otoridad, ginahimuslan sang suspek ang bata sa kada tion nga yara sa trabaho ang iloy sini.
Ginpahayag nga apisar nagapanugid ang bata, wala ini ginpatihan sang iya iloy.
Bangud sa kahadlok sang bata, nag-istar ini sa iya lola tubtob nakasaylo ini sa iya tiya kag didto na ini nakapanugid tuhoy sa ginahimo sang iya stepfather.
Kaangay sang father-and-son tandem ang natabo nga mass shooting incident sa Bondi Beach, Australia sa ginpatigayon nga Hanukkah event sang Domingo, Disyembre 14, nga nagresulta sa kamatayon sang indi magnubo sa 16 ka mga tawo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Denmark Suede, Bombo Correspondent sa Australia, iya ginpahayag nga ang mga suspek amo ang mag-amay nga lunsay mga Muslims, kag ginapatihan nga ang target sang pag-atake amo ang Jewish community, apang madamo nga mga sibilyan ang nasamaran, lakip na ang pila ka kabataan, nga ginbulong sa nagkalain-lain nga ospital sa lugar.
Ginakondenar sang gobyerno sang Australia ang nasambit nga insidente, pati na sang Muslim community, kag ginpahayag nga wala gid ini nagarepresentar sang ila pagtuo.
Yara na sa idalom sang kustodiya sang kapulisan ang anak nga suspek, samtang patay naman ang amay nga suspek matapos ini matiruhan sang gin-agawan sang pusil sang isa ka sibilyan, nga nahibaluan man nga isa ka Muslim.
Ini amo ang pinakaulihi nga mass shooting incident nga narecord sa Australia sa sulod sang 29 ka tuig.
Sa karon, padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang mga otoridad agud matumod ang motibo sang krimen kag kun may iban pa nga persona nga nalakip sa insidente.
Salakyan nga pakadto sa patyo sa Negros Oriental, nawad-an sang preno; 8 patay
Patay ang walo ka mga tawo kag pilason ang apat ka iban pa matapos nawad-an sang preno ang isa ka 4×4 off-road vehicle sa Sitio Tumampon, Barangay Tiguib, Ayungon, Negros Oriental kahapon sang aga, Disyembre 13.
Lunsay na-identify na ang mga napatay kag kumpirmado nga lakip sa ila amo ang senior citizens.
Anum sa mga biktima ang dead on the spot, samtang napatay naman ang duha samtang yara sa ospital.
Apat ang nakaluwas sa insidente nga nakaangkon sang samad sa lawas lakip ang 13-anyos kag nueve-anyos nga bata kag ang driver.
Sandig sa imbestigasyon sang Negros Oriental Police Provincial Office, suno man sa panaysayon sang driver, nagalabay ini sa dulhugon nga bahin sang highway sang gulpi lang nawad-an sang preno.
Nag-diretso ang salakyan sa mabato nga bakante nga lote kag nagbaliskad.
Ginpahayag nga pakadto kuntani ang grupo sa isa ka patyo para sa death anniversary sang ila nga himata.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon sa amo nga road crash.#
Iloy, ginbilin ang iya 7-ka-bulan nga bata sa manugbaligya sang utan
Ginbilin sang isa ka iloy ang iya 7-ka-bulan sini nga bata sa isa ka manugbaligya san utan sa bus station sa Kabankalan sang Disyembre 9, 2025.
Suno sa manugbaligya nga si Jemima Sumbilla, 52-anyos, samtang nagakuha ini sang iya mga utan halin sa Bantayan, nakit-an niya ang bata nga ginatumpukan.
Nangayo siya sang bulig sa kapulisan kag nakigsugilanon sa iloy, nga si alyas Mae, 23-anyos kun sa diin ginhambal ni Mae nga indi iya ang bata kundi bata sang iya amiga, kag ginbilin niya ini upod ang bag kag birth certificate.
Sa karun, wala pa nakahibalo si Jemima kun sa diin nagpadulong si Mae matapos ini maghalin sa bus station.
2 ka indibidwal patay samtang 8 ang pilason matapos ang pagpangluthang sa isa ka unibersidad sa Estados Unidos
Patay ang 2 ka indibidwal samtang pilason naman ang 8 matapos ang pagpangluthang nga natabo sa Brown University sa Providence, Rhode Island, sa Estados Unidos samtang nagapadayon ang final exams sang mga estudyante.
Suno sa mga awtoridad, ang suspek ang isa ka lalaki nga nakit-an nga nagasuksok sang itom nga panapton sang natabo ang nasambit nga krimen.
Nagpagua naman ang unibersidad sang shelter-in-place alert kag nagakoordinar sa mga kapulisan kag mga medical team samtang nagahatag sang suporta sa mga estudyante, empleyado, kag pamilya nga apektado sang insidente.
Sa karun, nagapadayon ang pag-imbestiga amo man ang pagpangita sa suspek nga nakapalagyo.
Nagapahanumdom man ang mga lokal nga opisyales sa publiko nga magpabilin nga mabinantayon sa ila tagsa ka palibot.
Amay, ginmartilyo tubtob napatay ang 2 ka mga anak nga PWD
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang mag-utod nga Person with Disability (PWD) matapos ginmartilyo sang ila amay sa Gingoog City sa Misamis.
Ang mga biktima nagaedad sang 20 kag 21 anyos.
Yara lang sa sulod sang ila balay ang mag-utod sang ginhimo sang amay ang krimen.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga naluoy ang amay sa iya kabataan rason nga luyag niya tapuson ang ila pag-antos.
Ginkontra naman ini sang iban nga himata kag ginsiling nga madugay na nga wala sang kabalaka ang amay sa mag-utod.
Yara na sa kustodiya sang otoridad ang suspek.
Ginpahayag nga gintuyo man nga utason sang amay ang iya kabuhi matapos ang ginhimo sa iya mga anak.
Barangay patrol vehicle kag van, nagbungguanay; 2 patay, 14 pilason
Patay ang duha ka tawo kag pilason ang 14 ka iban pa matapos nagbungguanay ang isa ka barangay patrol vehicle kag L300 Van sa national highway sang Purok-1, Brgy.Masalongsalong, Mercedes, Camarines Norte.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday Ed, 55-anyos, negosyante, residente sang Brgy.San Isidro, Talisay nga amo ang pasahero sang L300 van; kag Eleo, 45-anyos, barangay tanod, residente sang Mercedes, kag pasahero sang patrol vehicle.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagsugataay ang Mitsubishi L300 Van kag ang patrol vehicle sang Brgy.Colasi nga ginamaneho ni Jay, 34-anyos, residente kag brgy.treasurer sang barangay kag sakay si Eleo kaupod ang 13 ka tanod kag kagawad sang ila nga barangay.
Sa kabaskugon sang bungguanay, pareho nga nawasak ang duha ka salakyan.
Madasig naman nga ginpangdala sa ospital ang mga pilason nga biktima.
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka 19-anyos nga Grade 11 student sa Purok 4BKa­makawan sa Barangay Gusa, Cagayan de Oro City.
Ang biktima amo si Roylan Lopez nga may mga pilas sa lawas tuga sang pagkabuno.
Nakagapos pa ang mga kamot sini sang nakit-an sa kahilamunan.
Abogado sang BIR, patay matapos ginpaarakan luthang
Patay ang isa ka certified public accountant (CPA)-lawyer sang Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) matapos ginpaarakan luthang ang iya nga salakyan sa highway sang Brgy.
Dead-on-arrival sa ospital ang biktima nga si Duke Ramil Perral Lincuna, isa ka CPA kag examiner sang BIR kag residente sang Consolacion Cebu.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sakay sa iya salakyan ang biktima sang ginsundan sang riding-in-tandem kag pag-abot sa lugar,didto na ini ginpaulanan sang bala.
Nag-angkon ini sang igo sang bala sa madamo nga parte sang iya lawas.
Narekober sang mga pulis ang 11 empty shells sang wala pa natumod nga pusil.
Padayon pa nga ginpangita ang mga suspek.
Nagapangayo sang bulig ang isa ka pamilya para makit-an ang tawo nga nag-utod sang dila sang ila nga ido sa Balangkas, Valenzuela City.
Suno kay Rodlee Rivera-Zulueta, ang tag-iya sang ido nga si Kobe, nadikusbrehan nila nga nakagwa ini sa ila balay bangud sa pag-panic tuga sang mga palupok sa lugar.
Makaligad ang pila ka oras, nakit-an nila nga nagpauli ini kag may dugo sa iya baba.
Ginsundan sang pamilya ang tulo sang dugo kag nakit-an ang utod nga dila sang ido.
Napalantaw na sa beterinaryo ang ido kag ginsiling nga indi na maibalik pa ang dila sini.
Sa subong, stable na ang kahimtangan sang ido apang magalawig pa sang pila ka semana bag-o dalayon nga makarekober.
Ginsiling naman sang doktor nga samtang nagakabuhi, mangin mabudlay para sa ido ang pag-inom kag pagkaon bangud sa iya nautod nga dila.
Lalaki nga nagpatay sa American Bully, ginrason ang pag-ihi sang ido sa iya gani ginbakol niya ini tubtob mapatay
Ginrason sang lalaki nga nagbakol sa ido tubtob mapatay nga gin-ihian siya sang sapat.
Natabo ang pagpatay sa American Bully nga si “Axel” sa Sandanga, Mountain Province.
Suno sa pahayag ni Sandanga Mayor Robert Wanawan, ginsiling sang suspek nga malain ang pagpati nila kun ginaihian sang ido ang isa ka tawo.
Nakuhaan sang video ang iya paghanot sa ido gamit ang matig-a nga kahoy.
Nakadalagan pa ang ido apang ginlagas pa gid ini sang suspek.
Napasakaan na sang reklamo nga may kaangtanan sa animal cruelty ang suspek.
Lima ka pulis nga nagkawat sang P14M sa isa ka balay sa Pampanga, ginsipa sa pwesto
Ginsipa sa pwesto ang lima ka pulis nga involved sa pagsulod sa balay kag pagkawat sang P14 milyon nga kwarta sa Porac, Pampanga.
Base sa impormasyon, gintayaan sang mga suspek sang pusil ang mga tawo sa balay kag gindala sa kasilyas.
Paghalin sang mga suspek, nadiskubre sang tagbalay nga nadula ang ila P14 milyon nga cash.
Apat sa mga suspek ang assigned sa Angeles City Police samtang ang isa ang halin sa Zambales Provincial Police Office.
Wala ginpangalanan ang mga ini kag namalibad man maghatag sang pahayag ang mga suspek.
Sa baylo nga magdul-ong sang kalipay, kalisod ang ginhatag sang fun run sa pamilya sang estudyante nga nag-intra sa aktibidad sa Datu Odin Sinsuat, Maguindanao del Norte.
Ini matapos nga ginbawian ini sang kabuhi samtang nagadalagan.
Ang biktima amo si Jason Buisan, 18, kag residente sang Barangay Makir sa nasambit nga banwa.
Suno sa report, nagpin-ot ang dughan kag ginbudlayan ini sa pagginhawa.
Nagresponde man ang medical team kag gindala sa ospital ang biktima, apang napatay gid ini.
Nahibaluan nga kapin 2,000 ka tawo ang nag-intra sa una nga fun run sang municipal government, bilang kabahin sang selebrasyon sang ila nga 31st Founding Anniversary sang Disyembre 8, 2025.
Duha patay, 19 pilason sa paglupok sang royda sang van
Duha ang patay kag 19 ang pilason matapos naglupok ang royda sang ginasakyan nila nga van sa highway sang Laoang, Northern Samar.
Ang mga napatay amo ang 64-anyos nga tigulang nga babaye nga pasahero sang van kag isa ka 8-anyos nga bata.
Base sa imbestiga­syon, halin sa beach party ang mga biktima sa banwa sang San Roque kag padulong na sa Las Navas sakay sang van sang hinali lang naglupok ang royda sang salakyan sa pagtake-over sini sa isa ka tricycle.
Didto na nadulaan sang kontrol sa mani­bela ang driver sang van kun sa diin nagdiretso ini sa talaman.
Bangud sa impact, dead-on-the-spot ang tigulang samtang isa ang napatay sa ospital.
Graduating student, ginpatay sang mga kawatan
Patay ang isa ka 21-anyos nga graduating student sang Mindanao State University (MSU) matapos ginbuno sang tatlo ka kawatan nga nagsulod sa ila nga balay sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si Miyuki Kim, 21-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, isahanon lang si Kim sa ila nga balay matapos nga naglakata ang iya iloy kag stepfather para magtambong sa isa ka kahiwatan.
Suno sa iloy sang biktima, ginpaabot nila nga magaapas sa ila ang anak apang natingala sila na wala ini nagpakita sa okasyon.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, nadiskubre na lang nila ang bangkay sang ila anak sa kwarto sini.
Sa dugang nga imbestigasyon, nadula man ang kwarta kag pila ka pagkabutang sang biktima.
Sa subong, tatlo ka persons of interest ang ginasundan sang mga otoridad.
Estudyante, patay sang ginbungguan sang salakyan sang bata sang vice mayor
Patay ang isa ka Grade 12 student matapos mabungguan sang pickup nga ginamaneho sang anak sang isa ka vice mayor ang ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sang biktima sa Barangay Baay, Batac City, Ilocos Norte.
Base sa imbestigasyon, maliko kuntani ang motorsiklo sang biktima sang mag-overtake ang pick-up kag nagtabok ini sa linya ng 18-anyos nga estudyante.
Bangud sini, nagbungguanay ang duha ka salakyan kag nagtabog gid ang biktima bangud sa impact.
Guba man ang atubang nga porsyon sang pickup nga ginamaneho sang 27-anyos nga anak sang bise- alkalde sa Ilocos Norte.
Dalagita, ginhimuslan sang amay kag duha ka paryente
Arestado ang isa ka lalaki nga suspek sa natabo nga gang rape sa iya subang nga bata nga babaye, kaupod ang duha pa ka mga himata sini sa Navotas City.
Suno sa Philippine National Police, nadakpan ang suspek samtang sakay sa ginarentahan nga motorbanca halin sa Navotas Fish Port padulong sa Bulacan.
Nagapangatubang ini sa kaso nga qualified rape sa Leyte bangud sa pahimulos sa iya bata nga babaye nga menor de edad sadto.
Una na nga nadakpan ang stepfather kag tiyo sang biktima bag-o nadakpan sang mga otoridad ang iya nga amay.
Tatlo ka kabataan patay sa sunog; amay wala masalbar ang mga ini bangud nag-panic
Patay ang tatlo ka kabataan sa isa ka sunog matapos nag-panic ang ila amay kag ginbayaan ang mga ini agud mangayo kun tani sang bulig.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, natabo ang sunog sa apartment sa Wisconsin kun sa diin ang mga biktima amo sanday Rylee, 10; Connor, 9; kag Alena, 7 nga lunsay yara sa ila kwarto ang nagakatulog samtang ginatupok sang kalayo ang ila balay.
Nakita sang ila amay nga may masilaw nga butang sa ila kusina kag gilayun ni nga nag-panic sang nakit-an, kag nagatawag sa mga bata apang wala niya ang mga ini maluwas bangud sa madamol nga aso.
Dugang pa, ginpahayag nga posible nga may arson ukon homicide nga natabo kag nakakuha ang pulisya sang search warrant agud tukibon ang responsabilidad sang amay.
Sa karun, padayon ang imbestigasyon kag ginapahanumduman sang awtoridad ang publiko nga maghalong sa sunog kag mangin responsable sa ila mga kabataan.
Bana, patay matapos ginbuno sang asawa nga wala ginpasugtan magpa-rebond
Ginbawian gid sang kabuhi ang isa ka bana matapos ginbuno ini sang iya asawa sa Barangay Lawis, Cebu City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagbaisay ang mag-asawa matapos wala ginpasugtan sang bana nga magpa-rebond sang buhok ang iya asawa.
Sa tunga sang pagbaisay, nagkuha ang suspek sang kutsilyo kag ginbuno sa tiyan ang biktima.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang bana apang wala na natabangan pa.
Tuman naman ang paghinulsol sang asawa sa nahimo nga krimen kag yara na sa kustodiya sang kapulisan kag mangatubang sang kaso.
Tanod patay, apat pilason sang ginbungguan sang pickup truck ang mga salakyan
Patay ang isa ka barangay tanod kag pilason ang tatlo ka iban pa matapos ginbungguan sang pickup truck nga ginamaneho sang hubog ang tatlo ka mga salakyan sa Manila-Cavite Road, Barangay 8, Dalahican, Cavite City.
Ang napatay nga biktima amo si alyas “Ismael”, 29-anyos, residente sang nasambit nga lugar.
Base sa imbestigasyon,nagalakat lang ang tanod sang gin-arado sang truck ang mga salakyan kag nalab-ot gid ini.
Arestado naman ang driver sang pickup truck nga si alyas “Rolven” nga nagapangatubang sang sampaw-sampaw nga kaso.
Ginapahayag nga natulugan ang driver bangud sa kahulugbon nga nagresulta sa trahedya.
Ginabulong naman sa ospital ang mga pilason.
Babaye, ginbuno-patay sang iya ka-relasyon matapos piliton nga magpa-STD test
Patay ang isa ka babaye sa London sang ginbuno sang iya ka-relasyon matapos niya piliton nga magpa-STD test.
Suno sa imbestigasyon sang mga otoridad, gin-kilala ang biktima kay Zhe Wang, 31, nga nakit-an nga may duha ka pilas tuga sang pagbuno sa iya nawong kag may marka man sang pagkuga sa iya liog.
Nakit-an man sang mga kapulisan ang mensahe sa ila cellphone nga madamo na nga beses ginpangabay ni Wang ang suspek nga si Joshua Michals, 26, nga magpa-test sang STD, nga amo ang nagtuga sang tensyon antes ang krimen.
Dugang pa, imbes magsurrender sa mga kapulisan, ang amay pa sang suspek ang iya ginpangabay para magkadto sa abogado antes siya nagtawag sang pulis apat ka oras matapos ang insidente, kun sa diin nakit-an ang pila ka marka sang dugo sa iya panapton.
Sa karon, na-convict na si Michals sang korte kag ginakabig sang mga imbestigador nga brutal Katama ang natabo nga pag-patay.
Babaye nga kalaslon kag tatlo ka iban pa, patay sa bungguanay sang oil tanker kag tricab
Wala na nakalab-ot sa pinaka-importante nga adlaw sang iya kabuhi ang babaye nga kalaslon na kuntani matapos napatay ini kaupod ang iya isa ka tuig nga bata sa aksidente sa Brgy.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday Babyjane Tupaz, 34-anyos kag iya anak.
Ginbawian man sang kabuhi ang 61-anyos nila nga kaingodbalay nga si Silvestra kag amo man ang driver sang fuel tanker.
Base sa imbestigas­yon, halin si Tupaz sa isa ka “pre-wedding seminar” sa Sta.
Ana Parish Church bilang preparasyon para sa mass wedding sa masunod nga tuig.
Suno sa mga saksi, madasig ang dalagan sang oil tanker bag-o ini naglab-ot kurbadahon nga daln kun sa diin aksidente nga gibungguan sini ng nasugata nga tricab.
Ginapatihan nga nadulaan sang preno ang tanker gani nabungguan sini ang tricab bag-o ini nahulog sa may 100 metro nga kadalumon sang pil-as nga ginkamatay sag driver sini.
Patay man ang tatla ka sakay sa tricab sa insidente.
Mag-utod, ginpatay kag gin-utdan pa sang butkon
Nasapwan nga patay ang mag-utod nga lunsay babaye nga puno sang pilas sang pagkalabo kag utod pa ang butkon sang isa sa ila.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday alyas Zeny, 27-anyos, college student kag Cherry Ann, 25-anyos, kag lunsay residente sang San Fernando, Camarines Sur.
Ang person-of-interest kag ginapangita subong amo ang live-in partner ni Zeny nga si alyas “Ram”, 35-anyos.
Base sa report, nakit-an sang pila ka residente ang duguon nga lawas ni Zeny nga may pilas sa abag, liog kag utod ang isa ka butkon sa gwa sang isa ka subdivision.
Makaligad ang pila ka oras, nakit-an naman ang bangkay ni Cherry Ann sa lain nga lugar kag may pilas sa dughan kag naputos sa habol ang lawas.
Nahibaluan nga magkaupod sa ila lang kay balay ang mag-utod kag ang person-of-interest.
Padayon pa subong ang imbestigasyon sa insidente.
25 ka mga tawo patay sa sunog nga natabo sa isa ka nightclub sa Goa, India
Patay ang 25 ka mga tawo sa sunog nga natabo sa isa ka nightclub sa Goa, India.
Suno sa opisyal, lakip sa mga napatay sa amo nga trahedya amo ang apat ka mga Nepali, mga Indian citizens nga kadam-an staff sang nightclub kag mga turista halin sa New Delhi.
Nagluntad ang sunog sa club sa Arpora, sa norte sang coastal state, kag ginreport nga nagtuga ini sang electrical firecrackers.
Kadam-an sa mga biktima napatay tungod sa suffocation sa basement kag kitchen area sang club.
Suno sa mga awtoridad nga masami nga nagaluntad ang sunog sa India bangud sa indi manami nga building practices, overcrowding, kag kakulangan sang pagsunod sa safety regulations.
Isa ang patay kag isa ka municipal councilor ang pilason matapos gin-ambush sa Barangay Tuka, Mamasapano, Maguindanao del Sur.
Manib, 25-anyos, residente sang Sultan sa Barongis.
Dead on the spot ini matapos ginpaulanan sang bala sang wala pa nakilal-an nga mga suspek ang ginasakyan nila nga Toyota Innova.
Masuwerte man nga nakaluwas sa ambush ang ila upod nga si Abdulmanap Biang nga isa man ka municipal councilor sa Sultan sa Barongis.
Kaupod ni Dimalido sa iya nga ginamaneho nga salakyan sanday Manib kag Biang, kag pauli na kuntani sa Sultan sa Barongis halin sa Cotabato City, sang sila ang ginpaarakan sang mga armado nga kalalakihan nga nagahulat sa kilid sang highway sa Barangay Tuka.
Padayon pa ang pagtumod sa mga tawo nga responsable sa krimen.
Duha ka babaye, patay matapos ginlapak sang dump truck
Patay ang duha ka mga babaye matapos nga ginlapak sang dump truck sa national highway sang Brgy.Talobatib, Labo, Camarines Norte.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday alyas “Rosa”, 32-anyos kag “Tina”, 42-anyos, kag pareho nga pumuluyo sa Brgy.
Ang driver naman sang truck amo si alyas Gilbert.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sakay sa motorsiklo ang mga biktima kun sa diin si Rosa ang nagamaneho si Tina naman ang nagaangkas.
Gintuyo sang mg biktima nga mag-overtake sa ginasundan nga salakyan apang natumba ang ila motorsiklo.
Nagtabok ang duha sa pihak nga lane kag wala nakapreno ang nagapadulong nga truck rason nga nalasakan gid ang mga ini.
Nagsungka naman sa mga pulis ang driver sang truck kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in multiple homicide and damage to property.
Brodkaster nga SB Member, ginbuno-patay samtang naga-jogging
Patay ang isa ka brodkaster nga nagapungko subong nga Sangguniang Bayan member matapos ginbuno samtang naga-jogging sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si Gerry Campos, isa ka aktibo nga brodkaster kag miyembro man sang Marihatag Municipal Council.
Base sa imbestigasyo, isa ka lalaki ang nagpalapit sa biktima kag ginpangayuan niya ini sang kwarta kag makaligad ang pila ka ginutlo, ginnbuno na sang suspek si Campos.
Natumba ang biktima matapos nag-angkon sang mga pilas sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang iya lawas.
50 patay lakip ang 33 ka mga kabataan sa drone strikes sa Sudan
Patay ang 50 ka mga indibidwal lakip ang 33 ka mga kabataan matapos ang drone strikes sa isa ka kindergarten kag ospital sa Sudan.
Suno sa lokal nga opisyal sa banwa sang Kalogi sa South Kordofan, tatlo ka beses ginpalupok ang drone: una sa kindergarten, ikaduha sa ospital, kag ikatlo samtang gina-rescue mga kabataan.
Dugang pa, sang gin-target ang mga paramedics kag mga sibilyan nga nagbulig sa mga pilason, nagdugang ang kadamuon sang biktima kag nagdako ang halit sa pasilidad sang mga hospitals.
Sa karun, ginpahayag sang mga humanitarian groups kag sang UNICEF nga ini nga atake isa ka “paglapas sa kinamatarong sang mga kabataan” kag nagpanawagan sa tanan nga partido nga untaton ang pag-atake.
Tunga sa milyon nga balor sang droga, nakumpiskar sa isa ka anay preso sa distrito sang Molo
Masobra tunga sa milyon nga balor sang droga ang nakumpiskar sa isa ka anay preso sa buybust operation nga ginkasa sang City Drug Enforcement Unit sa Brgy.
Boulevard, Molo, Iloilo City sang Disyembre 5.
Ginkilala ang subject kay Alyas Niko, 35-anyos, residente sang nasambit man nga barangay kag ginakabig nga High-Value Individual.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Roque Gimeno III, officer in charge sang CDEU, ginpahayag sini nga madugay na nila nga ginabantayan ang arestado antes ini natigayon nga nadakpan.
Nabaklan ini sang mga otoridad sang 1 sachet nga suspected shabu nga nagabalor sang P5,000 kag may dugang nga na-recover sa iya possession nga anum ka sachets.
Ginabulubanta nga yara sa masobra 100 grams ang nakumpiskar nga suspected shabu nga may standard drug price nga P680,000.
Nahibaluan man nga may kaso ini nga robbery sadto pa, kag bag-o lang ini nakagwa sa presohan sa kaso nga illegal possession of firearms ukon paglapas sa RA 10951 sini lamang nga tuig.
Sa karon, yara na sa kustodiya sang kapulisan ang arestado kag pasakaan ini sang nagakaigo nga kaso ukon paglapas sa RA 9165 ukon Comprehensive Dangerous Act of 2002.
8 ka indibidwal, patay matapos ang brutal nga mass shooting sa California; 8 ka tuig nga Fil-Am naulamid
Patay ang 8 ka mga indibidwal lakip na ang isa ka 8 ka tuig nga Fil-Am, matapos ang mass shooting sa isa ka birthday party sa sulod sang isa ka banquet hall sa Stockton, California sang Sabado sang gab-i Nobyembre 30.
Nahibaluan nga Kapin isa ka gatos ka mga tawo nga nagatambong sa selebrasyon sang nagsugod ang pagpaniro, na ginalakipan sang 8 ka tuig, 9,14 kag 21 ka-anyos ang napatay sa nasambit nga brutal nga krimen.
Ginlaragway sang mga otoridad ang insidente bilang isa ka “targeted attack” nga posible ginpatigayon sang madamo nga gunman.
Nagapanawagan ang FBI kag San Joaquin County Sheriff’s Office sang bulig gikan sa publiko para matultulan ang mga responsible sa likod sang nasambit nga krimen.
2 ka estudyante, dakop bangud sa pagbaligya sang marijuana
Dakop ang duha ka estudyante sa high school matapos mnakuhaan ang mga ini sang ginabanta ₱372,000 nga balor sang marijuana sa Davao City.
Ang mga ini amo sanday alyas “Dang”, 16 anyos, residente sang San Pedro Extension, kag alyas “Kaloy,” 17 anyos, residente sang Beverly Hills, Upper Exodus, Brgy.
Suno sa otoridad, madugay na nila ginabantayan ang hulag sang duha antes ang ginpatigayon nga buy-bust operation.
Gilayon sila nga gindala sa kustodiya sang social workers para sa intervention bilang mga menor de edad.
Babaye, patay matapos gintiro sa ulo samtang nagalakat
Patay ang isa ka babaye matapos gintiro sa ulo sang lalaki nga nagasunod sa iya nga nagalakat sa Barangay Cupang, Antipolo City.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Camille”, legal ang edad, residente sang Marikina City.
Wala pa natumod ang gunman kag kaupod sini nga nagpalagyo matapos ang krimen.
Base sa impormasyon sang kapulisan, posible nga may kaangtanan sa iligal nga droga ang motibo.
Ginpahayag nga namalibad ang biktima nga balon ang iligal nga droga kag ginbuyayaw pa ang mga suspek.
Sang pauli na, didto na siya ginsundan sang mga suspek kag gintiro.
Kabulig sa balay, patay matapos ginkuga kag ginhimuslan sang kawatan
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi kag naluslos ang underwear sang isa ka 57-anyos nga kabulig sa balay matapos ginkuga kag ginhimuslan sang kawatan.
Natabo ang krimen sa ginaubrahan nga balay sang biktima sa Quezon City.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga bag-o lang nagsulod sa trabaho ang biktima kag ginpangita ini sang iya amo nga bedridden.
Sang wala nagsabat ang biktima, gintawagan na sang amo ang isa pa nga kabulig kag didto na nadiskubrehan ang krimen.
Gintaban man sang suspek ang mga alahas sang amo.
Natigayon naman nga madakpan ang 25-anyos nga lalaki nga suspek sa Tondo, Manila.
Sa record sang pulis, ika-anom ka beses na nga nadakpan ang suspek bangud sa pagpangawat,
Lolo, ginbuno-patay sang iya apo sa Davao City
Patay ang isa ka 74-anyos nga lolo matapos ginbuno sang 27-anyos nga apo sa Davao City.
Duha ka kutsilyo ang gin-gamit sang suspek sa krimen.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nakabati na lang sang gahod ang testigo sa krimen kag nabatian man nga nagsinggit ang tigulang nga nagapangayo sang bulig.
Sang iya ginlantaw, nakit-an niya ang duguon nga biktima nga may pilas sa dughan kag liog.
Nakit-an man ang suspek malapit sa crime scene.
Suno naman sa utod sang suspek, may problema ini sa paminsaron kag pila ka beses naman nga ginabalik-balik sa mental health facility.
Suno pa sa pamilya, makapila ka beses na man nga ginpahog sang suspek ang biktima.
Nagdesisyon na lamang ang pamilya nga indi na magpasaka sang kaso bangud man sa kondisyon sang suspek.
Sang damlag lang ginmandu ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Ka Marcos nga ginatudlo lider sang NPA, patay sa encounter
Patay ang isa ka miyembro sang New People’s Army (NPA) sa natabo nga engkwentro sa tunga sang 94th Infantry Battalion kag rebelde nga grupo sa Sitio Cabagal, Brgy Buenavista, Himamaylan City.
Ang napatay amo si Ruben Tingal alias “Ka Marcos” nga ginatudlo lider sang Central Negros 2.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Brigadier General Ted Dumusmog, commander sang 303rd Brigade, naglawig sang pulo ka minutos ang engkwentro.
Ginabanta nga lima ka NPA members ang ila nakaatubang.
Narekober kay “Ka Marcos” ang m16 rifle.
Ginpahayag nga nagapangilkil ang mga rebelde nga grupo sa lugar gani ginkadtuan sang military kag didto natabo ang encounter.
Driver, patay matapos nahulog halin sa 2nd floor
Nasapwan nga patay ang 53-anyos nga company driver sa atubang sang ginaubrahan nga building sa Quezon City.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Genovivo” nga nakit-an sa atubang sang isa ka kompaniya sa Letland Drive, Brgy.
Sa imbestigasyon sang Criminal Investigation and Detection Unit sang Quezon City Police District (CIDU-QCPD), nag-inom ang biktima kag ang mga kaupdanan sa trabaho sa ikaduha nga panalgan sang building sang nag-ulan sang mabaskog gani nanaog sila sa first floor.
Sang nakapanaog na ang mga ini, nakibot sila nga nakit-an ang driver nga duguon kag wala na nagahulag.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang pulis kun nahulog, gintiklod ukon hungod nga naglumpat ang biktima.
Lalaki nga bully, gintiro sang iya bestfriend
Patay ang isa ka 36-anyos nga lalaki matapos gintiro sa dughan sang iya abyan nga masami niya nga gina-bully.
Natabo ang insidente sa isa ka eskinita sa Barangay 38, Tondo, Maynila.
Sa panaysayon sang mga nakasaksi sa insidente, nakita nga ginparada sang biktima ang iya nga motor sa lugar kag nagkadto sa balay sang suspek bangud sa indi paghngpanay apang gilayon siya nga gintiro sang suspek.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, ginsiling sang asawa sang suspek nga masami gina-bully sang biktima ang iya bana.
Sa rekord sang otoridad, may una na man nga kaso sang pagpangluthang sa duha ka tawo ang biktima kag nagasaylo-saylo ini sang balay para manago sa mga pulis.
Padayon nga ginapangita sang mga otoridad ang nalagyo nga suspek.
6 ka pulis nga nagtaban sang P13M sa POGO raid, ginkakas sa pwesto
Ginkakas sa puwesto ang anom ka personnel sang Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) nga ginaakusahan nga nagkawat sang minilyon nga balor sang ebidensiya halin sa operasyon sa Bagac, Bataan sang Oktubre 2024.
Ini matapos nadiskubrehan ang pagkawat sang mga ini sang P13M nga balor sa nakuha nga ebidensiya sa operasyon sa isa ka ginasuspetsahan nga Philippine Offshore Gaming Operator (POGO) sa Bagac.
Magluwas sa anom ka pulis, indi man luwas sa imbestigasyon ang isa ka opisyal nga gindesignar nga evidence custodian.
P141 milyon ang nakumpiska sang mga operatiba kag nasulod sa siyam ka box.
Apang gindala niya ini sa iya balay sang halos isa ka tuig.
Ginbalik lamang ni Arandia sa CIDG ang box sang Oktubre kun sa diin may nagbulos na iya sa puwesto.
Anom ka pulis ang ginsugo ni Arandia nga magbantay sang siyam nga box sa CIDG headquarters.
Sang Nobyembre, ginmando sang korte nga ibalik sang CIDG sa kompanya ang kwarta kag didto na natukiban nga kulang ini sang kapin P13 milyon.
Ang mga pulis nga ginkasuhan amo sanday Pat.
Nag-ako ang isa sa mga pulis nga gintunga nila ang kwarta.
Barangay Chairman kag upod sini, nakuhaan sang ilegal nga mga armas
Arestado ang isa ka barangay chairman kag iya kaupod sa isa ka checkpoint sa Lamitan City, Basilan bangud sa paghupot sa duha ka .45 caliber pistols kag isa ka M16 assault rifles.
Ang nadakpan amo sanday Idris Jama Abdulla, 33-anyos, barangay chairman sang Sangkahan sa Albarka, kag ang 21-anyos nga si Jaid Alasa Amilul nga taga-Lagayas sa Tipo-Tipo, Basilan.
Suno sa otoridad, ginpapundo sang mga pulis sa isa ka checkpoint sa Barangay Malinis, Lamitan City ang Toyota Hilux pick-up truck nga ginasakyan nanday Abdulla at Amilul para sa isa ka routine inspection, apang gilayon sila nga gin-aresto sang makita nga may dala sila nga mga pusil.
Wala sang mapakita nga mga dokumento ang duha.
Nagapangatubang sila sang kaso nga illegal possession of firearms ang duha.
PBBM, ginpasidunggan ang nabulag nga suldado nga tumandok sang probinsya sang Guimaras sa iya pagkabaganihan
ang tumandok sang probinsya sang Guimaras, kag isa ka suldado nga nagserbisyo sang tampad para sa pungsod.
Si Major Jerome Jacuba, nga nabulag matapos nga nalukpan sang bomba samtang nagaserbisyo sa Maguindanao sang 2016 ang gin-promote sa position sang Philippine Army bilang “Major”.
Sa video‑statement nga ginpagua sang Presidente, iya ginpahayag nga indi makatarungan nga basta lang mapahamtang sa Complete Disability Discharge (CDD) ang mga suldado nga nasamaran tungod sang ila trabaho.
Ginmando niya ang suspensyon sang discharge ni Jacuba kag ang paghatag sang bag-o nga trabaho (adaptive duties) nga husto sa iya 15 ka tuig nga serbisyo.
Suno sa Malacañang, ini nga tikang kabahin sang mas makatarungan nga reporma sa polisiya sang CDD, agud masiguro nga bisan ang mga suldado nga nabiktima sang gyera padayon gihapon maka-serbisyo kag indi basta-basta nga pahalinon sa pwesto.
Subong man, lubos nga ginbaton ni Major Jerome Jacuba ang pasidungog kag suporta sang gobyerno, kag nagapasalamat sa oportunidad nga makapadayon sa iya serbisyo sa pungsod apisar pa sang naagum sini nga disabilidad sa pagpakigbato para sa pungsod.
Lalaki nga nang-agaw sang mic sa videokehan, gintiro sa guya
Natiruhan sa guya ang isa ka lalaki matapos gin-agawan sini sang mikropono ang upod niya sa videokehan sa Tagum City, Davao del Norte.
Base sa imbestigasyon, magkaupod sila nga nagainom sang ginkuha sang biktima ang mikropono sa suspek samtang nagakanta ini.
Nagbais ang duha kag didto na nagbunot sang pusil ang suspek kag gintiro sa guya ang biktima.
Madasig nga gindala sa ospital ang biktima samtang nakapalagyo naman ang suspek.
Hinablos, ginbugaw sang tiya kabaylo sang P5K
Arestado ang isa ka tiya matapos ginbugaw ang iya hinablos nga menor de edad sa Barangay Abiawin, Infanta, Quezon.
Ang suspek amo si Marichu, residente sang Barangay Dinahican, Infanta.
Naaresto ini sang otoridad sa sulod sang isa ka kwarto sang isa ka resort kun sa dini ginhimo ang transaksyon.
Suno sa kapulisan, personal nga gindala sang suspek ang biktima nga si alyas Aprilyn kabaylo sang ₱5,000 sa isa ka poseur-client.
Sang nadaho ang kwarta, didto na gindakop ang tiya.
Yara na sa kustodiya sang Infanta Police ang suspek kag pasakaan sang kaso nga paglapas sa RA 9208 o Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act.
6 pa gid ka pulis nga nangawat kag naghimulos sa Grade 9 student, nagsungka
Nagsungka na ang nabilin nga anom sa 14 ka mga pulis nga involved sa ginaalegar pagpangawat kag paghimulos sa isa ka ­18-anyos nga Grade-9 student sa Bacoor City, Cavite.
Isa-isa nga nagsungka ang “at large” nga mga pulis kag gin-updan sang ila nga mga pamilya sa pagsurrender sa PDEG Headquarters.
Napreso na subong ang 14 nga mga pulis nga involved sa krimen.
Manunudlo, nalakip sa tatlo nga napatay sa bungguanay sang motor
Patay ang tatlo ka tawo kalakip ang isa ka manunudlo matapos nagbungguanay ang duha ka motorsiklo sa Hacienda Alipinion sa Brgy.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday “Vicente”, 46-anyos, isa ka public school teacher sa banwa sang Isabela, Negros Occidental; Yong-yong kag backrider na si Itsoy nga lunsay residente sang La Castellana.
Ginpahayag nga pareho nga yara sa impluwensiya sang makahulubog nga ilimnon sanday Yong-Yong kag Itsoy sang natabo ang insidente.
Lunsay nga patal nga pilas sa lawas ang naangkon sang tatlo ka mga biktima.
Nagabusong nga dalagita, ginhatok-hatok buno sang adik nga bana
Patay ang isa ka 17-anyos nga nagabusong nga asawa matapos ginhatok-hatok buno sang bana nga adik sa Barangay Pinaring, Sultan Kudarat, Maguin­danao del Norte.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagbaisay ang 21-anyos nga suspek nga si Akmad Abag kag ang biktima nga si Anne.
Sa kainiton sang ila pagbaisay, nagkuha sang kutsilyo ang bana kag ginbuno sang makapila ka beses sa iya guya kag lawas ang biktima.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang dalagita apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
73 Bomb threats, na-rekord sang PRO-6 sa bulan sang Nobyembre sa Western Visayas
Naka-rekord sang 73 ka bomb threats ang Police Regional Office sa bulan lang sang Nobyembre sa bug-os nga Western Visayas.
Sa press release sang PRO 6, ginpahayag ni Regional Director PBGEN.
Joselito Ligan nga wala man sang confirmed devices nga nagluntad sa mga bomb threats sa rehiyon, apang siguraduhon man sagihapon nga mapasakaan sang kaso ang mga suspek sa likod sang nasambit nga mga pagpamahog.
Pahayag man niya nga duha na ka indibidwal ang napasakaan sang kaso kag amo ang sa likod ang bomb threats sang Oton National Highschool kag Ramon Avanceña National Highschool.
Dugang man niya nga kalabanan sa mga pagpamahog amo ang tripping lang kag ginsunod ang ila nga mga nakit-an sa social media.
Gin-athag man sini nga may yara lamang ka 61 ka mga personnel ang Explosive Ordnance Disposal team sa bug-os nga rehiyon apang capable man ang mga ini agud magresponde sa mga lugar nga may bomb threat.
Sa subong padayun ang pag-imbestigar sang grupo sang Anti-Cybercrime group apang namalibad ini nga mag-idisclose sang proseso sang imbestigasyon.
Suno man sa iya nga pagasiguraduhon sang mga awtoridad nga mangin hilway ang pagselebrar sang paalabuton nga Holiday Season agud wala sang matabo nga bomb threat.
Arestado ang isa ka store manager matapos ginreklamo sang 18-anyos nga crew sang pagpanghimulos sa Marikina City.
Ang gindakop paagi sa warrant of arrest amo si alyas “Melvin”.
Natabo ang pagpanghimulos sang Abril 21, 2025 sa isa ka hotel sa Brgy.
Base sa imbestigasyon, na-ugat ang kaso sang plano kuntani sang biktima nga mag-resign.
Nagsiling ang ma­nager nga istoryahan nila ang plano kag nagpasugot ang biktima nga makigkita sa isa ka hotel.
Sang yara na sa hotel, nakabatyag ang biktima nga may malain nga tuyo ang manager gani nagtuyo ini nga malagyo apang ginpunggan siya sang suspek.
Gintabunan sang suspek ang bibig sang biktima kag ginpahog nga may malain nga matabo kun magsinggit ini.
Suno sa otoridad, dako ang pagsalig sang biktima sa manager kag wala siya naglaum nga himuon ini sa iya.
Babaye nga rider, patay matapos nagsuhot sa van
Patay ang isa ka 30-anyos nga babaye nga ­rider matapos natumba ang iya motorsiklo kag nagsuhot sa van sa Rodriguez, Rizal.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Grace” samtang ang driver sang van amo si alyas “Aris”, 48-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagamaneho ang biktima sang Honda motorcycle sang natabo ang insidente.
Ginpahayag nga ginlikawan sang babaye nga biktima ang isa dako nga bato sa tunga sang karsada, rason nga nadulaan sang balanse kag natumba nga nagresulta sa amo nga trahedya.
Nanukot sang P50 nga utang, gintiro-patay
Patay ang isa ka mangunguma matapos gintiro sang lalaki nga ginsukot niya sang P50 nga utang sa Zone 6, Barangay Camaya, Mariveles, Bataan.
Ang biktima amo si Rodito Pido Ramirez, 44-anyos, residente man sang lugar.
Ang suspek amo si Roger Patac Lampaso,29-anyos.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagkadto si Ramirez sa balay ni Lampaso agud sukton sang iya utang.
Apang, hinali lang nabatian ang lupok sang pusil kag nakit-an ang biktima nga duguon.
Madasig naman nga nalagyo ang suspek apang natigayon nga madakpan kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga homicide.
Suno sa otoridad, posible nga may kaangtanan ang insidente sa iligal nga droga.
Patay ang isa ka Egyptian national nga opisyal sang isa ka pribado nga eskwelahan matapos gintiro sa Zamboanga City.
Ang biktima amo si Abdalrahman Elshawadfy Mohammed Elfaky, residente sang Matina Aplaya, Davao City.
Si Elfaky amo ang administrator sang Asia Academic School sa Barangay Tetuan sang nasambit nga siyudad.
Base sa imbestigasyon, ginamaneho sang biktima ang iya Toyota Innova sang ginpalapitan ini sang riding-in-tandem suspect kag gintiro.
Madasig naman nga nalagyo ang mga suspek matapos ang insidente.
OFW, patay sa natabo nga sunog sa Tai Po district sa Hong Kong
Ginkumpirmar sang Philippine Consulate General sa Hong Kong nga may ara sang napatay nga overseas Filipino Worker sa natabo nga sunog sa Tai Po district sang November 26.
Suno sa official advisory wala pa makilal-i ang biktima, apang ila ginlaragway nga naglakat ini sa luwas sang pungsod agud makakita sang maayo nga opportunidad kag agud suportahan ang iya pamilya.
Gin-paabot man sang Consulate General ang ila pagpakakig-unong sa pamilya, mga abyan sini kag pinalangga sa kabuhi.
Wala naman naghatag pa sang dugang nga detalye ang mga awtoridad nga nagrason sa kamatayon sang OFW.
Gin-utdan sang dila ang 82-anyos nga lolo sa ila balay samtang nagakatulog ini sa Brgy.
Ginkilala ang biktima kay Rogelio Chavez, suno sa anak sang biktima natabo ang insidente pasado las-4 sang kaagahon sang Lunes, Nobyembre 24.
Nabatian sang anak sang biktima nga may kinagamo nga nagakatabo sa puluy-an sang iya amay kag gilayon niya ini ginkadtuan.
Didto kag naabtan niya ang suspek nga ginkilala kay alyas “Kimkim,” nga ginapatihan nga may problema sa paminsaron.
Ginpahayag pa sang anak sang biktima nga pasado las-5 sang aga, nagpangabay pa gid ang suspek nga tapuson ang pag-utod sang dila sang iya amay, apang gilayon niya ginkuha ang dala sang suspek agud mapunggan ang ginabalak sini.
Sa subong, pagpermahanay sang pamilya sang biktima kag sang suspek sang kasugtanan sa Barangay.
Bata, gin-gulgulan sa liog sang iya nga pakaisa
Nasapwan nga patay ang lima ka tuig nga bata sa Cebu matapos gin-gulgulan sang sa liog sang kaugalingon sini nga pakaisa.
Natingala ang iloy sang biktima nga wala makaupod pauli sang suspek ang iya bata nga nagpangkuha sang alimango sa sapa.
Ginpamangkot sang iloy kun diin ini kag wala makasabat sang husto ini gane ginkadtuan na lang nila.
Didto na kag natukiban nila nga patay na ang bata bangud sa samad sa liog sini.
Padayon subong ang imbestigasyon sa insidente kag gina-usisa naman kon ano ang motibo.
Bata, nalumos sa pool; 2 ka yaya sini, ginpreso
Ginpreso ang duha ka yaya matapos nga nalumos ang ila ginabantayan nga apat ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki sa swimming pool sa Talisay City, Cebu.
Base sa imbestigasyon, natulugan ang duha ka yaya kag wala nila mabantayan ang bata nga naggwa sa ila balay kag naghampang sa swimming pool tubtob nahulog kag nalumos.
Ginpasakaan sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting to homicide ang duha ka yaya.
Kapitan nga nagtambong sa birthday sang alkalde, gintiro-patay
Patay ang isa ka punong barangay nga nagtambong sa birthday party sang ila alkalde matapos nga gintiro sang riding-in-tandem sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si Jinqui Quimbao, chairman sa Brgy.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagapauli na ang biktima halin sa birthday party ni Masantol Mayor Danilo Guintu sang ginbanggaan ini sang mga armado nga lalaki nga may tabon sa nawong kag gintiro ini sa ulo.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital apang wala na natabangan.
Ginapatigayon na ang maid-id nga imbestigasyon agud matumod ang motibo sa krimen kag madakpan ang mga indibidwal nga nagpatay sa biktima.
Ginpatay ang isa ka amay sa atubang mismo sang iya bata sa Barangay Mable, Malabang, Lanao Del Sur.
Natabo ang krimen kahapon, Nobyembre 27.
Suno sa pamilya, wala gid sa hinalung-ong ang bata nga lalaki nga wala na sang kabuhi ang iya amay samtang nagapungko ini sa ila tricycle.
Nagasinggit subong sang hustisya ang pamilya sang biktima.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang kapulisan angot sa insidente.
Patay ang 11 ka tawo samtang tatlo naman ang kritikal matapos ginbungguan sang 14-wheeler truck ang isa UV Express van kag pareho nga nahulog sa pil-as sa Brgy.
Kalakip sa mga napatay amo ang mga bata kag mga estudyante.
Ginbawian man sang kabuhi ang driver sang van.
Nangin mabudlay naman ang pagresponde sang mga rescuers bangud nga nagupi gid ang van kag naipit ang mga biktima kag napit-alan pa sang truck.
Naglawig pa sa apat ka oras antes nakuha ang lawas sang mga biktima.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad angot sa trahedya.
Acting Digos City police chief, ginsipa sa pwesto angot sa pagpatay sa kapitan
Ginsipa sa puwesto ang acting Chief of Police sang Digos City kasunod sang pagpatay sa isa ka punong barangay nga naga-facebook live sang damlag lang.
Matandaan nga nakuhaan sang video ang pagpatay sa biktima nga si Tres de Mayo Brgy.
Ang tikang nagatuyo nga masiguro ang patas nga imbestigasyon.
Kaangot sini, naglab-ot na sa P5-M ang reward money sa sin-o man nga makatudlo sa nagpatay sa punong barangay.
P1-M ang halin sa Bucol family, P1-M ang halin kay VP Sara, P1-M halin kay GPVM Yvonne Roña Cagas, P1-M halin kay Former Davao Occidental Gov.
Bautista, kag P1-M halin kay Senador Bato dela Rosa.
Kapitan, patay matapos gintiro samtang naga-facebook live
Patay ang punong barangay sang Tres de Mayo, Digos City matapos gintiro samtang naka-live stream sa Facebook.
Nakuhaan sang iya facebook live ang insidente sang pagpangluthang.
Sa video, makit-an ang kapitan nga nagapungko malapit sa gate sang iya nga balay.
May isa ka lalaki nga nagsulod sa gate sang balay sang opisyal agud magturn-over sang nakit-an nga wallet.
Samtang nagapanawagan ini sa tag-iya sang wallet, hinali lang nga may naglupok nga pusil kag naigo ang opisyal.
Mabatian pa ang pagpangayo sini sang tabang.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon agud matumod ang responsable sa krimen.
Suspek sa pagpatay sa manunudlo, posible naluyag sa asawa sang biktima
Ginalantaw nga rason sa pagluthang sa isa ka manunudlo sa Talavera, Nueva Ecija amo nga posible naluyag ang suspek sa asawa sang biktima.
Natabo ang pagpatay sa biktima nga si Reynan Tiangco, 39-anyos, samtang yara sa ilimnan sa ila tupadbalay.
Hinali lang nag-abot ang gunman kag gintiro ang biktima.
Nagpalagyo ang mga suspek sakay sa motorsiklo.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang biktima apang wala na natabangan.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagsungka ang isa ka anay barangay kagawad nga gintudlo sang isa ka saksi nga isa sa mga suspek kag nasiplatan man ini malapit sa lugar kun sa diin ginpatay ang biktima.
Hugot naman nga ginpanginwala sang suspek ang mga akusasyon kag nanindugan nga wala ini sang sala.
Iloy kag duha ka mga anak, patay sa sunog
Patay ang isa ka iloy kag duha niya ka mga anak matapos nga na-trap sa nasunog nga balay sa Brgy.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday Daphne Laurden, 35-anyos; kag mga anak nga sanday Cara Ellois nga anom ka tuig kag si Zee, lalaki, duha ka tuig ang edad.
Nabatian pa ang pagpangayo sang bulig sang mga biktima apang wala nasalbar sang mga rescuers.
Narekober sang mga otoridad ang bangkay sang mga ini apang halos indi na sila makilala bangud nga nabatok gid ang ila lawas.
Lapsag, gin-kidnap sang nagpakuno- kuno nurse sa ospital
Isa ka bag-o ginbun-ag nga lapsag ang gin-kidnap sang isa ka nagpakuno-kuno nga nurse sa South Cotabato Provincial Hospital sa Koronadal City.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagsulod ang suspek nga nagasuksok pa sang medical service attire sang isa ka nurse sa sulod sang ospital kag ginkuha ang baby.
Suno sa iloy sang bata, ginhambalan sila sang suspek nga ipaidalom sa hearing test ang bata apang wala na ginbalik.
Ginpahayag nga ginsulod sang suspek ang bata sa bag pagwa sa ospital.
Sa pagpangita naman sang otoridad, narekober ang bata sa sulod sang isa pa ka ospital nga amo ang Dr.
Arturo Pingoy Medical Center sa Koronadal City samtang ginakugos sang isa ka babaye nga ginapahayag nagasuprir sang postpartum depression.
Nagapangatubang subong sang kaso nga kidnapping ang babaye nga nagkidnap sa bata.
Tatlo patay sang gin-arado sang truck ang anom ka mga salakyan
Patay ang tatlo ka mga drivers samtang tatlo ka iban pa ang pilason matapos gin-arado sang 10-wheeler truck ang anom ka mga salakyan sa Antipolo City, Rizal.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday Daniel Jose Aballa, 36, driver sang Isuzu dump truck; Raul Roxas, 42-anyos, kag Alexander Aragon, 57-anyos.
Pilason naman sanday Arbe Taller, 35-anyos, driver sang ikalawang dump truck; Rommel Ramos, driver sang Honda motorcycle, kag ­Jilian Cael Ogao, 23, dri­ver sang Mitsubishi X-pander.
Naggwa sa imbestigasyon nga halin ang duha ka dump truck sa Montalban kag samtang yara sa dulhugon nga dalan padulong sa Antipolo City, nadulaan sang kontrol ang isa ka truck kag nagbunggo sa una nga truck.
Bangud sa impact, gin-arado man sang dump truck ang lima ka iban pa nga salakyan kalakip ang tatlo ka motorsiklo kag nagresulta sa trahedya.
Myembro sang NPA, nag-surrender kay Igbaras Mayor Escorpion
Nag-surrender kay Igbaras Mayor Juvic Elmido Escorpion kahapon nga adlaw, November 24, ang isa ka myembro sang New People’s Army (NPA).
Ginkilala ang surrenderee kay alyas Patrick, 30-anyos, single, tumandok sang Igbaras, Iloilo kag myembro sang Regional Headquarters KR-Panay sa sulod sang pulo ka tuig.
Suno sa surrenderee, indi na sini masarangan ang pangabuhi sa bukid kag gusto na sini nga makaupod sang hilway ang iya pamilya.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Lieutenant Colonel Jekyll Julian Dulawan, Commanding Officer sang 61st Infantry Battalion, Philippine Army, iya ginapahayag nga nagdugay man sang pila ka adlaw ang negosasyon kay alyas Patrick.
Si alyas Patrick ang isa sa mga nabilin nga katapo sang KR-Panay si Alyas Patrick matapos ang sunod-sunod nga nagluntad nga engkwentro sa tunga sang NPA kag mga katapo sang militar sa area sang Tapaz, Capiz.
Pahayag pa niya, wala man sang samad ukon pilas si Alyas Patrick sang nag-surrender apang magapaidalom ini sa gihapon sa medical checkup.
Wala man sang may narekober nga mga armas ang mga otoridad kay Alyas Patrick.
Dugang pa ni Dulawan, magapabilin sa kustodiya sang 61st Infantry Battalion si Alyas Patrick agud masiguro ang iya seguridad.
Samtang, nagpasalig naman si Mayor Vicente Escorpion sang Igbaras, Iloilo nga hatagan sang suporta kag proteksyon ang miyembro sang New People’s Army (NPA) nga nag-surrender sa ila banwa.
Suno sa alkalde, wala sang malain nga matabo sa nagabalik sa sabak sang gobyerno kag siya mismo ang nagtanyag sang personal nga seguridad kag pagbulig.
Antes pa man, ang kapitan sang barangay ang una nga nag-coordinate sa alkalde matapos magpalapit sa ila ang nagsurrender bangud sa kabudlay sang kabuhi sa kabukiran.
Suno pa sa alkalde, tatlo ka semana ang ila ginpatigayon nga komunikasyon kag nagikan pa ang surrenderree sa Manila tubtob nakaabot sa Guimbal antes nag-abot sa pagsurender sa Igbaras.
Ginkumpirmar man sang alkalde nga may ginhatag na nga cash assistance sa surrenderee agud mabuligan siya sa iya pagsugod liwat sang normal nga kabuhi.
Padayon ang koordinasyon sang lokal nga gobyerno kag law enforcement agencies para sa mga gusto pa nga magbalik sa sabak sang gobyerno.
Suspek sa pagpadala sang bomb threat sa Oton NHS, nagsungka na
Nagsungka na kahapon, Nobyembre 24, sa kapulisan ang suspek nga nagpadala sang bomb threat sa Oton National High School.
Matandaan nga nakabaton sang pagpamahog sa amo nga eskwelahan sang Nobyembre 21 nga naghatag sang kakugmat sa mga estudyante, manunudlo kag mga ginikanan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Colonel Bayani Razalan, director sang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO), iya ginpahayag nga gin-ako mismo sang suspek nga siya ang nagpalapta sang bomb threat sa nasambit nga buluthuan.
Suno sa iya, na-detect nila ang Facebook account nga gin-gamit sang suspek sa pagpanguna sang Regional Anti-Cybercrime Unit (RACU).
Natumod nga ang tag-iya sang nasambit facebook account amo mismo ang utod nga babayi sang suspek kun sa diin deactivated na kuntani ang account apang natigayon pa niya ini nga mabuksan.
Pahayag pa ni Razalan, ginsiling sang suspek nga lango-lango lang kuntani kag wala sang intensyon ini nga malain bangud wala man siya sang kaakig sa buluthuan sa diin anay ini naga-eskwela.
Backhoe, nahulog sa suba; operator, patay
Patay ang isa ka backhoe operator matapos na-trap sa sulod sang backhoe nga nahulog sa suba sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo sa alyas “Harvey”, 49-anyos, kag residente sang amo nga lugar.
Nagapatigayon sang clearing operations sa suba sa barangay sang natabo ang trahedya.
Ang nasambit nga amphibious backhoe ang ginapanag-iyahan sang municipal government nga ginagamit sa pagkutkok sang duta sa riverbed sa nasambit nga reclamation area.
Naghumok ang duta rason nga nahulog ang backhoe sa pangpang sang suba kag naglugdang sa tubig kag na-trap ang biktima.
Apat patay sang gin-arado sang truck ang traysikol
Patay ang apat ka mga tawo samtang isa naman ang kritikal matapos gin-arado sang truck ang ila ginasakyan nga tricycle sa Tagkawayan, Quezon.
Ang mga napatay amo sanday alyas “Michael” ng amo ang driver sang tricycle kag residente sang Barangay Tabason, kag ang mga pasahero nga sanday alyas “Lea”, Shirly, kag Dianne.
Yara naman subong sa ospital ang isa pa ka pasahero nga menor-de-edad.
Base sa imbestigasyon, natabo ang kurbadahon nga parte sang dalan ang pagbunggo sang truck nga ginamaneho ni Jerome, 42-anyos, kag residente sang Alabang, Muntinlupa City.
Gin-arado pa sang delivery truck ang tricycle sang halos 150 metros nga rason kun nga nagtalabog ang mga biktima kag nag-angkon sang mga pilas.
Madasig naman nga naaresto ang driver sang truck.
Suno sa iya, nadulaan sang kontrol sa manibela ang truck matapos naguba ang preno.
Mangatubang sang kaso nga “reckless imprudence resulting in multiple homicide, ­serious physical injury kag damage to properties ang nasambit nga driver sang delivery truck.
Babaye, aksidente nga natiruhan sang nakabais nga guwardiya
Kritikal ang isa ka 38-anyos nga babaye matapos aksidente nga natiruhan sa liog kasunod sang ila pagbais sang isa ka guardiya sa restaurant sa Kawit, Cavite.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Aye” nga residente sang Bacoor City, Cavite.
Ang suspek amo si alyas “Mel”, 40, residente man sang amo nga lugar kag katapo sang Agency Square And Compass Security Agency.
Nagapangatubang ini sang kaso nga Physical Injury thru Accidental Firing.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nag-abot sa restaurant ang babaye kag nag-istoryahanay sila sang gwardiya tubtob nga nagbaisay.
Ginpahayag nga nagtalikod ang suspek agud ibutang sa bag ang service fire arm, apang aksidente ini nga naglupok kag naigo ang biktima.
Hepe kag 14 ka pulis, ginsipa sa pwesto bangud sa rape kag robbery
Ginpahalin sa puwesto ang hepe sang PNP-Drug Enforcement Group-Special Operations Unit (PDEG-SOU) sa Region IV A kag 14 ka iban pa nga mga pulis bangud sa kaso nga pagpangawat kag paghimulos sa isa ka Grade 9 student sa isa ka anti-illegal drug operations sa Bacoor City, Cavite.
Suno sa otoridad, ang target sang operasyon amo ang nobyo sang biktima nga si alyas “Nena” apang nakapalagyo ang lalaki.
Ang lalaki nga target ang may daan na nga kaso sa iligal nga druga kag ginakabig man ini nga High Value Individual (HVI).
Suno kay Nena, sang amo nga tion, ginhimuslan siya sang mga katapo sang operatiba.
Gin-alegar man nga ginkuha sang mga operatiba ang motorsiklo sang suspek kag ginkarga sa ila service vehicle.
Ginpanginwala naman sang mga pulis ang alegasyon nga ginhimuslan nila ang babaye.
Elmer Ragay, acting director sang PDEG, nga nakamaskara ang mga pulis sa buy-bust kag ini ang hugot nga ginadumilian base sa standard operating procedure (SOP).
Magapatigayon naman ang National Police Commission (Napolcom) sang full-scale investigation sa robbery-rape incident.
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka saleslady sang isa ka bakeshop sa Victoria, Laguna.
Suno sa otoridad, naabtan na lang sang iya kaupod sa trabaho nga wala na nagaginhawa si Charil Opon sa sulod sang iya apartment.
Antes nadiskubre ang iya lawas, duha ka adlaw na ini nga wala nakasulod sa trabaho.
Ginpaidalom na sa autopsy ang iya lawas kag ginahulat na lang ang resulta agud mahibaluan ang rason sang kamatayon sini.
Empleyado sa munisipyo, ginpatay sang riding-in-tandem
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka empleyado sang munisipyo sang Midsalip, Zamboanga del Sur matapos gintiro sang riding-in-tandem nga mga suspek.
Ang biktima amo si Rommel Bendicion, 53-anyos, residente sang Brgy.
Nagalakat ang biktima sa parking area sang munisipyo sang gintiro sang mga suspek.
Nag-angkon ini sang igo sang bala sa madamo nga parte sang lawas nga gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Wala na natabangan pa ang isa ka barangay kagawad matapos gintiro sang wala pa makilal-an nga indibidwal sa Zamboanga City.
Ang biktima amo si Julambri Utubara, 28-anyos, residente sang Brgy.
Sakay sa motorsiklo ang biktima padulong sa Brgy.
Pag-abot sa lugar, nakibot na lang ang mga tawo sa nabatian nga mga lupok sang pusil sa sululdlon nga porsyon.
Didto na nila nakita ang biktima nga nagapaligo sa kaugalingon nga dugo sa tupad sang iya motorsiklo.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital apang wala natabangan pa.
Narekober naman sang otoridad ang empty shells sang bala sang armas nga gin-gamit sa krimen.
SHS teacher nga yara sa ilimnan, gintiro-patay
Patay ang isa ka 39-anyos nga manunudlo matapos gintiro samtang yara sa ilimnan sa atubang sang ila balay sa Barangay Poblacion Sur, Talavera, Nueva Ecija.
Ang biktima amo si Reynan Tiangco, nagatudlo sa Talavera Senior High School.
Base sa imbestigasyon, hinali lang nag-abot ang suspek kag ginpaulanan sang bala ang manunudlo.
Gindeklarar nga “dead-on-arrival” sa Talavera General Hospital ang biktima.
Dalagita, patay sang naigo sang nagtalang nga bala sang pulis
Patay ang isa ka 14-anyos nga dalagita matapos maigo sang nagtalanga nga bala sa Iligan City.
Suno sa impormasyon, nagresponde ang pulis sa lugar sang dalagita bangud ginlagas ini sang binangon sang iya 52-anyos nga tiyo.
Antes ang insidente, hubog ang suspek tubtob nga nakit-an sang mga tawo nga ginalagas sini sang binangon ang dalagita.
Sang nagresponde ang mga pulis, sa baylo nga mag-untat, padayon nga nag-amok ang suspek kag gintuyo nga labuon ang isa ka pulis.
Bangud sini, napilitan nga magpalupok ang pulis kag naigo ang suspek.
Apang, aksidente man nga naigo sang bala sa dughan ang dalagita.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang mga ini apang gindeklarar nga dead on arrival.
Bata nga babaye, ginhatagan sang ice cream kag ginhimuslan
Naospital ang isa ka walo ka tuig nga bata nga babaye bangud sa pagdugo sang iya kinatawo kag ginapatihan nga ini ang ginhimuslan.
Ang suspek ang mismo tupadbalay sini nga si alyas Manny.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, ginhatagan sang suspek ang biktima nga si alyas “Angel” sang ice cream, gindala sa kahilamunan kag ginhimuslan.
Sa pahayag sang lola sang biktima, nagahampang ang iya apo kaupod ang iban pa nga bata, sang ginpalapitan sang suspek.
Nagtanyag ini sang ice cream kag sang ginkuha ini sang biktima, gindala niya ini sa lugar kun sa diin natabo ang krimen.
Nadiskubre ang natabo sa bata sang nakit-an sang amay sini nga nagahilibion ang biktima kag nagadugo ang kinatawo.
Gindumdom sini nga nakagat lang sang ido ang bata apang sang gindala sa ospital, didto napat-ud nga ginhimuslan ini.
Lapsag nga mga kapid, ginsulod sang yaya sa ref kag drawer
Tuman ang kaakig sang mga ginikanan sang duha ka lapsag nga kapid nga nagaedad sang anom ka bulan matapos ginsulod sang yaya sa refrigerator kag drawer sa Taytay, Rizal.
Sa isa ka video, ginpakita sang yaya ang pagkakibot sini sang may nakita siya nga lapsag sa ref kag may isa pa gid ka lapsag sa drawer.
Sang ulihi, gin-ako niya nga for content lang ini sa iya social media account.
Apisar nagpangayo sang pasaylo ang yaya, desidido gihapon ang ginikanan nga magpasaka sang kaso.
Auction sang luxury cars sang mga Discaya, subong na nga adlaw
Magasugod na subong nga adlaw ang public auction proceedings sang Bureau of Customs (BOC) sa pito ka luxury vehicles sang mga Discaya.
Ini ang una ginkumpiska sang gobyerno gikan sa mag-asawa nga kontraktor nga sanday Curlee kag Sarah Discaya.
Suno sa BOC, ang public auction ang hiwaton sa Situation Room, Ground Floor, OCOM Building, South Harbor, sa Port Area, Manila subong nga aga.
Misis, gin-aresto matapos ginpalapta ang hublas nga laragway sang bana
Gindakop sang mga katapo sang Simultaneous Anti-Criminality and Law Enforcement Operations sang Marikina City Police Station ang isa ka asawa matapos ginpalapta ang mga hublas nga laragway sang iya bana.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagduda ang 32-anyos nga misis nga may ‘other woman’ ang iya bana gani ginbuksan sini ang cellphone sang lalaki kag nakit-an ang mga bastos nga mga laragway.
Bangud sa kaakig, ginpalapta niya ini sa social media kag ginpadala sa ginikanan kag mga paryente sang iya bana.
Gindakop ang asawa samtang nagatambong sa isa ka okasyon sa isa ka restaurant sa Quezon City.
Ini ang nalakip man sa Top 10 Most Wanted sang Marikina City Police Station.
Nahibaluan nga may duha ka anak ang mag-asawa.
Naghinulsol naman ang babaye sa iya ginhimo sa iya bana.
Rider patay, isa pa nautdan sang 2 ka tiil sang gin-arado sang truck ang mga motorsiklo sa Rizal
Patay ang isa ka rider samtang nautdan naman sang duha ka tiil ang isa pa ka rider matapos gin-arado sang truck ang ginamaneho nila nga motorsiklo sa Rizal.
Natabo ang trahediya sa Sumulong Highway sa Antipolo City.
Base sa video footage, hinali lang naglusot ang truck halin sa pihak nga linya kag gin-arado ang duha ka motorsiklo sa atubang sini.
Ginrason naman sang driver sang truck nga nadulaan sang preno ang iya nga salakyan kag may ginlikawan man ini nga jeep nga may mga pasahero.
Preso na ini subong kag desidido naman ang pamilya sang duha ka rider nga pasakaan ini sang kaso.
City health worker, nasapwan nga patay sa iya salakyan
Wala na sang kabuhi kag duguon sang masapwan sa sulod sang iya salakyan ang city health worker sang Gingoog City sa Misamis.
Ang biktima nakit-an nga may mga pilas tuga sang pagkabuno sa iya liog kag dughan.
Nakit-an ang iya salakyan sa higad sang dalan sa Jasaan, Misamis.
Nadula man ang mga gamit sini kaangay sang cellphone, bag kag kwarta.
Pagpangawat ang ginalantaw nga motibo sa krimen.
Estudyante nga bag-o lang gwa sa eskwelahan, nabungguan sang dump truck
Pilason ang isa ka babaye nga estudyante matapos mabungguan sang dump truck sa atubang sang ila eskwelahan sa Barangay Palahanan 2, San Juan, Batangas.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagatabok sa pedestrian lane ang bata sang natabo ang aksidente.
Natumba pa ang biktima kag ginyudyod pa sang pila ka metros.
Kritikal ang kahimtangan sang bata sa ospital.
Nadakpan naman ang driver sang truck kag mangatubang sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in serious physical injury.
Ex-boyfriend sang napatay nga aktres nga si Gina Lima, ginpahayag nga nagpanginmatay
Nasapwan nga patay ang modelo nga si Ivan Cezar Ronquillo, ex-boyfriend sang napatay nga Vivamax artist nga si Gina Lima.
Suno sa otoridad, may nabaton sila nga report nga nagpanginmatay si Ronquillo.
Gindala pa ini sa ospital kag gin-revive apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga adlaw, gindala man ni Ronquillo ang iya ex-girlfriend nga si Lima sa ospital apang gindeklarar man nga dead on arrival.
Suno sa kapulisan, sa inisyal nga report, cardiorespiratory distress ang ginkamatay ni Lima apang may alegasyon nga nagaangot kay Ronquillo sa amo nga insidente.
Base anay sa testimoniya sang ex-boyfriend, ginpulihan pa siya sang mga abyan sang late actress rason kun ngaa may mga kinarusan sa iya nawong.
Natalana pa nga ipagwa ang autopsy result para sa bangkay sang ex-girlfriend agud matumod kun may foul play.
Suldado, arestado bangud sa smuggling sang iligal nga sigarilyo
Arestado ang isa ka Army technical sergeant sang makita sang mga pulis nga may karga nga mga imported nga sigarilyo ang iya salakyan sa routine inspection sa isa ka checkpoint sa Barangay Macasandag sa Parang, Maguindanao del Norte.
sang 1st Scout Ranger Battalion nga nakabase sa Carmen, Cotabato.
Nakuha sa iya ang mga sigarilyo nga halin sa Indonesia kag nagabalor sang P194,680.
Yara na subong sa kustodiya sang Police Regional Office-Bangsamoro Autonomous Region ang mga sigaril­yo nga nakumpiska.
Detained naman ang amo nga suldado sa Parang Municipal Police Station.
Pulis nga napierde sa pusoy dos, nangtaya sang pusil
Ginapangita subong ang isa ka pulis nga nalagyo matapos nga nangtaya ini sang pusil kag ginsumbag ang iya kontra sa pusoy dos sa Brgy.
Tatalon, Quezon City bangud napierde sa hampang.
Ang suspek ang may ranggo nga Police Chief Master Sergeant (PCMS) kag assigned sa Regional Peace and Anti-Terrorism System (RPHAS) sa Camp Bagong Diwa, Taguig City.
Suno sa biktima nga si alyas “Jan”, 40 anyos, yara sila sa haya kag magkaupod nga nagahampang sang suspek sang nanginit ini bangud napierde.
Agud makalikaw sa gamo, nagbiya na lang ang biktima apang ginsundan ini sang pulis kag ginsumbag kag gintayaan pa sang pusil.
Magapangatubang sang kaso nga Physical Injury kag Grave Threat ang pulis.
School OIC, napilasan sa ulo matapos ginhampak sang manunudlo gamit ang electric fan
Napilasan gid sa ulo ang Officer in Charge sang isa ka eskuwelahan sa Lantapan, Bukidnon matapos ginhampak sang stand sang electric fan sang manunudlo.
Ang insidente natabo sa Balila Elementary School sa Barangay Balila.
Ginpahayag nga nagpangakig ang suspek nga si alyas John matapos nagbisyo ang biometric attendance system kag indi mabasa ang iya nga fingerprint.
Sa sobra nga kaugot, ginpangguba sini ang mga gamit tubtob nga ginhampak ang OIC nga si alyas Rasel.
Nagpinalagyo naman ang iban nga manunudlo bangud sa aktwasyon sang suspek.
Nagresponde naman ang mga pulis kag gin-aresto si alyas John kag napreso na subong.
Pulis nga halin sa buy bust, patay matapos nakabunggo ang ila patrol car
Patay ang isa ka pulis samtang pilason naman ang tatlo ka iban pa kalakip na ang gin-aresto nga drug pusher matapos nakabunggo ang ginasakyan nga patrol car sang Pagsanjan Municipal Police Station sa Pagsanjan Stone Arch sa Laguna.
Aldwin Jamilla nga nag-angkon sang pila sa ulo kag iban nga parte sang lawas.
Pilason man ang driver sang patrol car nga si Patrolman Jann Erwin Velarde, Patrolman Rustom Pacilona, kag ang suspek nga si Ivan Nikko Delos Santos nga ginpangdala man sa isa ka ospital.
Natabo ang aksidente samtang pabalik sa Pagsanjan Police Station ang mga biktima apang may nagsal-ot nga isa ka motorsiklo.
Sang ila ginlikawan, nadulaan sang kontrol ang patrol car kag nabunggo sa Stone Arch.
Padayon ang imbestigasyon agud makilala ang rider nga amo ang kabangdanan sang disgrasya.
Nakabaton man sang pagpamahog ang University of San Agustin sa Iloilo City Proper subong nga aga, Nobyembre 18.
Kanselado naman subong ang klase kag opisina sang nasambit nga eskwelahan.
Gilayon man ginpapuli ang mga estudyante agud masiguro ang ila seguridad.
Nagapadayon pa sa subong ang imbestigyason sang mga otoridad sa nasambit nga eskwelahan.
Bag-o bun-ag nga lapsag, ginhaboy sa idalom sang taytay
Nakit-an ang isa ka bag-o bun-ag nga lapsag sa idalom sang taytay sa bypass road sa Brgy.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagalakat ang isa ka residente sang may nabatian ini nga hibi sang bata.
Sang iya ginpalapitan ang ginahalinan sang hibi, nakibot ini nga isa ka bag-o bun-ag nga lapsag may umbilical cord pa sang iya nakita.
Nagapadayon pa subong ang imbestigasyon agud matumod kun sin-o ang naghaboy sa lapsag.
Graduating student, patay matapos nakursunadahan nga tiruhon sang hubog nga nagapadayaw sang iya pusil
Patay ang isa ka graduating student sang University of Abra matapos makursunadahan nga tiruhon sang isa ka lalaki nga hubog sa Bangued, Abra.
Ang biktima amo si Larry Bautista Jr., residente sang Pangasinan kag naga-board lang sa Zone 7, Bangued.
Ang suspek naman amo si Erwin Buging nga nagapangatubang sa kaso nga homicide.
Base sa imbestigasyon, yara sa ilimnan ang suspek kaupod ang mga abyan kag ginpadayaw-dayaw sini ang iya nga pusil agud palukpon.
Gintaya niya ini sa direksyon sang isa ka boarding house kag natabuan nga naggwa sa pwertahan ang biktima kag didto na naglupok ang pusil kag naigo ini.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang biktima apang ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Ginrason naman sang suspek nga hubog ini kag wala siya nakahibalo nga natiruhan niya ang biktima nga isa ka working student.
Nagasinggitan sang hustisya ang pamilya sang biktima sa nadangtan bangud sa pagka-iresponsable sang hubog nga suspek.
Lalaki nga nagasinggit samtang nagalantaw sang basketball, ginpatay sang lupon sang barangay
Patay ang isa ka construction worker matapos gintiro sang Lupon Tagapa­mayapa sang Brgy.
Ang biktima nga dead-on-the-spot amo si alyas “Ricky”, 28-anyos, kag residente sang amo nga syudad.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, nagahampang sang basketball ang biktima kag nagasinggit ini.
Ginsaway siya sang suspek tubtob nga nagbaisay ang mga ini.
Didto na nagkuha sang pusil ang myembro sang barangay lupon kag gintiro ang biktima.
Madasig naman nga nalagyo ang suspek nga si alyas Rico.
Vivamax artist nga nasapwan patay sa condo, ginapatihan nga ginkastigo sang ex-boyfriend
Padayon pa subong ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad sa kamatayon sang Vivamax ­artist nga si Gina Lima.
Base sa imbestigasyon, antes ang insidente, nagbisita sa iya condominium sa Quezon City ang iya ex- boyfriend nga si Ivan Cezar Ronquillo, 24.
Pagkasunod nga aga, nakit-an na lang ni Ronquillo si Lima nga wala na nagaginhawa.
Gindala sang anay nobyo si Lima sa ospital apang gindeklarar ini nga dead-on- arrival.
Kasunod sang insidente, madamo naman ang nagpahayag sang ila pagduda kay Ronquillo nga amo ang ginatudlo nga nagkastigo kay Lima nga amo ang gintunaan sang kamatayon sini.
Suno sa post sang mga abyan sang biktima, masami sadto makitaan sang lagob sa lawas ang biktima kag ang ginatudlo nga may kahimuan amo si Ronquillo.
Gin-ambush sang wala pa nakilala nga indibidwal ang 11 ka myembro sang isa ka pamilya sa San Pablo City, Laguna.
Base sa imbestigasyon, sakay sa multi-purpose vehicle ang mga biktima sang ginpaulanan sila sang bala.
Maswerte nga wala sang may naigo sang bala sa mga sakay nga sanday Homaima Bacarat, 42, nga amo ang driver, kaupod ang iya utod, tiya, apat ka bata nga nagaedad 10, 9,7, 3 kag apat pa ka mga babaye.
Sakay sa motorsiklo ang lalaki nga nangluthang.
Nakilala naman sang mga biktima ang gunman paagi sa nawong sini apang wala pa matumod ang pangalan sini.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon agud mahibaluan ang motibo sa ambush.
STL collector, nasapwan patay kag may mga pilas tuga sang pagkabuno
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi ang isa ka babaye nga kolektor sang Small Town Lottery (STL) sa San Pablo City, Laguna.
Ang biktima amo si Marilou Arogancia, 59, kag may pilas nga tuga sang pagkabuno sang nasapwan sa kilid sang karsada.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang otoridad sa nasambit nga krimen.
Mga eskwelahan sa Iloilo, nakabaton sang bomb threats subong nga aga
Sunod-sunod nga ginpuhag sang bomb threat ang lima ka mga educational institution sa Iloilo subong gid lamang nga aga.
Ang una nga nakabaton sang pamahog kaina sang kaagahon amo ang Iloilo National High School (INHS) sa La Paz, Iloilo City.
Gin-send man sa Facebook page sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo ang pamahog kun sa diin nag-alegar ang sender nga si certain “Nestor Villagracia” nga nagbilin siya sang siyam ka time bombs sa amo nga eskwelahan bangud sa indi patas nga pagtratar sa mga kabataan.
Kasunod sini, ang amo nga persona ang nagpadala man sang pamahog sa kaingod lang nga eskwelahan nga amo ang West Visayas State University (WVSU)Main Campus.
Ginpaagi sini sa comment section sang Facebook post sang isa ka school organization ang iya pamahog.
Nagpahayag ini nga may “unfair treatment” sa unibersidad rason nga nagtanum siya sang lima ka time bombs.
Pareho na nga nakumpirma sang awtoridad nga safe ang mga buluthuan kag wala sang nakit-an ang Explosive Ordnance Disposal team nga anuman nga explosive devices.
Sa pihak sang kumpirmasyon, pareho nga gin-suspend ang klase sa amo nga mga buluthuan.
Pagkasunod sini, nakabaton man sang bomb threat ang WVSU Calinog Campus sa Calinog, Iloilo; ang Iloilo Science and Technology University (ISAT-U) sa La Paz, Iloilo City; kag ang Hua Siong College of Iloilo sa Iznart, City Proper.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga semana, may duha man ka bomb threats sa ISAT-U kag isa sa University of San Agustin- Basic Education Department.
Padayon pa nga gina-imbestigaran sang awtoridad ang identity sang perpetrator.
WVSU Calinog Campus, nag-suspend sang klase matapos nakabaton sang bomb threat
Napuhag man sang bomb threat ang West Visayas State University (WVSU) Calinog Campus subong nga aga.
Magluwas diri, gin-suspend man ang trabaho para sa tanan nga staff kag administrative personnel.
Ini na ang ikatatlo nga campus sang WVSU nga ginpadal-an sang mensahe nga may bomba.
Sang nagligad nga semana, may bomb threat man sa Janiuay campus, kag subong gid lamang nga aga, gin-suspend man ang klase sa main campus sa La Paz, Iloilo City bangud sa nabaton nga kaangay man nga pamahog.
ISAT-U, nakabaton na naman sang bomb threat subong nga aga
Ginkumpirma sang Iloilo Science and Technology University (ISAT-U) nga nakabaton na naman ini sang bomb threat subong nga aga.
Gin-suspend anay ang face-to-face classes subong nga adlaw kag gin-abisuhan naman nga mag-work-from-home ang faculty kag non-teaching personnel.
Sang nagligad nga semana, duha man ka magkasunod nga bomb threats ang nabaton sang ISAT-U nga lunsay naman nga gin-check ang awtoridad.
Gindeklarar nga safe ang campus para sa mga estudyante kag personnel sang amo nga tion.
Una naman nga nag-release sang statement si ISAT-U President Dr.
Gabriel Salistre nga nagapaandam nga kasuhan nila ang sin-o man nga mapamatud-an nga may kahimuan sa sini nga kriminal nga akto.
Iloilo National High School, ginpadal-an sang bomb threat subong nga kaagahon
Ginkumpirma sang pamunuan sang Iloilo National High School nga wala sang bomba nga nakit-an sa sulod kag palibot sang eskwelahan.
Ginpatigayon sang kapulisan ang pagpangusisa sa area kasunod sang bomb threat nga ginpadala kaina sang kaagahon.
Ginpadala man sang certain “Nestor Villagracia” ang mensahe sa Bombo Radyo Iloilo kun sa diin ginsiling sini nga nagbutang siya sang siyam ka time bombs sa campus.
Pahayag sang nag-send sang mensahe, ginbutang niya ang bomba bangud sa indi patas nga pag-tratar sang mga faculty kag staff sa regular class students samtang ginapaboran naman ang special program students.
Sa pag-check sang Bombo Radyo, nakit-an nga bag-o lang nahimo ang Facebook account sang amo nga indibidwal kag isa lang ang nakabutang sa Friends’ List.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Delura Cecila Fantillo, Principal IV sang Iloilo National High School, iya ginpahayag nga gin-check na sang Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) ang areas kag nadeklarar nga wala sang bomba nga nakit-an.
Suno kay Fantillo, magapadayon ang regular classes subong nga adlaw.
Ginapasiguro man sang eskwelahan nga safe ang mga estudyante kag may dugang lang nga mga pahanumdom nga ipaguwa kadungan sang ila pagsulod sa buluthuan subong nga adlaw.
Nagsabat naman ang assistant principal IV nga si Julius Plondaya nga lunsay alegasyon lang ang pahayag sang tawo nga nag-send sang bomb threat subong nga kaagahon.
Probably dira guro [sa rason sang nag-send], just merely allegation lang,” suno kay Plondaya.
Nagpanawagan man ini sa awtoridad nga aktuhan na ang makaalarma nga sunod-sunod nga bomb threats sa mga educational institutions diri sa Iloilo.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga semana, may nabaton man nga bomb threat ang University of San Agustin- Basic Education Department samtang duha ka sunod-sunod nga bomb threat man ang nabaton sang Iloilo Science and Technology University.
Lunsay ini na-clear sang awtoridad kag nadeklarar nga wala sang bomba.
Hubog, patay matapos ginbuno sang tag-iya sang balay nga ginhaboy niya sang bato sa Rizal
Patay ang isa ka hubog matapos ginbuno sang tag-iya sang balay nga ginhaboy niya sang bato.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Rey” samtang ang suspek amo si alyas “Ramon” kag lunsay residente sang amo nga lugar.
Base sa imbestigasyon, halin sa ilimnan kag nagpauli nga hubog ang biktima.
Nagpulot ini sang bato kag ginhaboy sa balay sang suspek.
Nakabugtaw si Ramon nga sa una, ginpakalma ang biktima apang wala ini nagwaras ini tubtob nga nagbun-anay sila.
Nag-angkon sang mga pilas ang biktima nga gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Naospital man ang suspek bangud sa naangkon man nga mga pilas.
Duwa ka pulis, patay sa tiruhay sa sulod sang police station
Patay ang duwa ka katapo sang Philippine National Police (PNP) kalakip ang isa ka police lieutenant matapos ang shooting incident sa sulod mismo sang estasyon sang Provincial Explosives Ordnance Disposal and Canine Unit (PECU) sang Abra Police sa Casamata Hill, Zone 5, Bangued, Abra.
Ang napatay amo sanday Police Staff Sergeant O’Neal Ryan Calica kag ang hepe sini nga si P/Lt.
Suno sa imbestigasyon, bag-o lang nag-abot sa ila opisina si Calica kag sang hinali lang nagqwa sa kuwarto ang superior sini nga si Lt.
Nag-load sang bala sa iya nga pusil si Bulatao kag gintiro si Calica sang apat ka beses.
Sunod nga gintiro ni Bulatao ang isa pa ka pulis nga si P/Senior Master Sergeant Edwin Bandoc kag maswerte nga wala ini maigo.
Nagbalos si Bandoc kag naigo si Bulatao.
Gindala ang mga pilason nga pulis sa ospital apang gindeklarar nga dead on arrival.
Nagsungka naman si Bandoc sa Abra Police matapos ang insidente kag ginpanindugan nga self defense lang ang iya ginhimo.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon apang nagwa ang impormasyon nga nangakig si Bulatao sang ginsugid siya ni Calica sa Police Regional Office nga hubog ini nga naga-duty.
Menor de edad, nalakip sa persons of interest sa pagpatay kag paghimulos sa bata sa Lambunao
Nalakip sa pito ka persons of interest ang isa ka menor de edad sa kamatayon sang pito ka tuig nga bata nga babayi nga nasulod sa sako, may higot ang liog, kag wala na sang pang-idalom nga panapton sa Brgy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Jose Winston Biadog, Hepe sang Lambunao Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga ang pito ka persons of interest ang mga kasilingan sang biktima kag gintan-aw man ang oras sang natabo ang krimen.
Dugang pa ni Biadog, nadala na ini sa crime lab agud nga ipaidalom sa swabbing kag nagkooperar man ang mga ini.
Ang iban pa nga mag detalye sang mga persons of interest ang indi na mabuyagyag sang kapulisan agud maprotektahan ang ila identity kag indi maapektuhan ang imbestigasyon.
Samtang, nakalab-ot na Camp Crame ang kaso sang pito ka tuig nga biktima kag posible magdugay sang ginabulubanta tatlo ka semana ang proseso sang examination.
University of San Agustin sa Sambag, Jaro, ginpuhag sang bomb threat
Nakabaton sang bomb threat ang University of San Agustin Basic Education Department sa Sambag, Jaro, Iloilo City subong lamang nga aga.
Padayon pa nga gina-imbestigaran sang mga kapulisan ang nasambit nga eskwelahan.
Manghod, ginpatay sang iya magulang sa Passi City
Patay ang isa ka tigulang matapos gintiro sang iya mismo kaugalingon nga utod sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si Alyas El, 60-anyos kag pamilyado.
Ang suspek naman amo si alyas Fed, 65-anyos, kag isa ka laon.
Charina Pagmanoja, Deputy Chief of Police sang Passi City Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga hubog ang biktima sang natabo ang insidente.
Suno sa iya, nagasinggitan ang biktima rason nga naggwa ang suspek kag ginhaboy ang balay sang iya utod.
Pagkatapos sini, wala sang pagduha-duha nga ginluthang sang suspek ang biktima gamit ang isa ka homemade 12-gauge shotgun.
Gindala pa sa ospital ang biktima apang gindeklarar nga dead on arrival.
Samtang, nakuha sang mga kapulisan sa lugar sang krimen ang isa ka homemade 12-gauge shotgun, isa ka empty shell, kag isa ka live ammunition.
Samtang, gin-ako naman sang magulang nga naimpito ini gani gintiro niya ang manghod.
Suno sa suspek, naubos gid ang iya nga pasensiya kag pagpaumod sa iya manghod sang amo nga tion.
Dugang pa sini, wala man sila sang daan nga hiligut-anon sang iya manghod antes ang insidente.
Sa subong, yara na sa kustodiya sang Passi City PNP ang suspek kag ginahanda na ang kaso nga ipasaka batok sa iya.
Lola kag isa ka babaye, patay matapos mabungguan sang van
Patay ang isa ka lola kag isa ka babaye matapos nabungguan sang van sa National Highway sa Barangay Turbina, Calamba City, Laguna.
Ang mg biktima amo sanday alyas “Maria”, 82-anyos, kag alyas “Nora”, 55.
Nagatabok ang duwa sa karsada sang nabungguan sang van.
Gindala pa ang mga ini sa ospital apang gindeklarar nga dead-on-arrival bangud sa naangkon nga mga pilas.
Nagpalagyo naman ang driver sang sakay sa ginamaneho ng van matapos ang insidente.
Patay ang isa ka police captain sang Caloocan City matapos nangholdap sang isa ka convenience store sa Marilao, Bulacan kag nagbato sa kaangay nga pulis sa hot pursuit operation nga nagresulta sa shootout.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagsulod ang suspek sa convenience store kag nagpagwa sang iya pusil kag nagdeklarar sang holdap.
Gintaban niya ang P20,000 kag nagpalagyo sakay sa motorsiklo.
Madasig nga nagresponde ang mga pulis kag nasiplatan ang suspek kag ginbanggaan ini.
Sa baylo nga magpundo, nagpalupok ini gani ginbalusan sang mga operatiba kag naigo sang bala nga gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Ginaimbestigaran pa kun myembro ini sang isa ka sindikato sa Central Luzon.
Bata nga ginpatay sa Lambunao, nagpositibo sa sexual abuse
Ginkumpirma sang Lambunao Municipal Police Station nga may senyales sang sexual abuse sa kinatawo sang pito ka tuig nga bata nga ginpatay sa sulod sang ila balay sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas Bebe, pito ka tuig ang edad, kag nasapwan sang iya nga lola sa ila banyo nga nasulod sa sako, may higot ang liog, kag wala na sang pang-idalom nga panapton.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Jose Winston Biadog, hepe sang Lambunao Municipal Police Station, iya ginpahayag nga matapos ang ginpatigayon nga autopsy, nakita nga ang gintunaan sang kamatayon sang biktima amo ang pagkakuga.
Samtang, may ara naman sang lima ka persons of interest nga ginasundan ang kapulisan kun sa diin, lunsay napaidalom na ang mga ini sa swabbing.
Gintuad man sang natungdan nga ang mga person of interest ang ara na sa legal nga pang-edaron kag isa diri ang himata man sang biktima,
Gin-angot ang mga ini sa imbestigasyon bangud malapit ang mga ini sa lugar kag oras sang natabo ang krimen.
Posible magpangatubang sang kaso nga rape with homicide ang suspek sa kamatayon sang biktima.
Siklista, patay matapos nabiktima sang ‘hit and run’
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka lalaki nga biktima sang “hit and run” sa Brgy.
Ang biktima amo si alyas “Jessie,” legal ang edad, residente sang Brgy.
Suno sa impormasyon, nagabisekleta ini sang nabungguan sang isa ka kotse nga Toyota nga may plaka nga NGA 1057, base sa panaysayon sang tawo nga nakakita.
Padayon pa nga ginaimbestigaran ang insidente agud mapasabat ang nakabunggo sa biktima.
Nakaluwas ang isa ka former board member sang Maguindanao del Sur matapos ini nga gin-ambush sa Tacurong City, Sultan Kudarat.
Base sa impormasyon, nagsakay ang 51-anyos nga si Datu Flank Mlok sa iya bullet-proof SUV nga Toyota Fortuner sa Barangay New Carmen sang ginpalukpan ini sang mga lalaki nga sakay sa motorsiklo.
Nakabalos ang anay opisyal kag gintiro ang mga suspek kun sa diin, base sa nakakita, naigo sang bala ang isa sa mga nagtiro kay Mlok.
Nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon agud matumod ang mga tawo nga nagtuyo nga patyon ang anay opisyal.
Magkahagugma nga nagaangkasanay sa motor, patay matapos mabungguan
Patay ang mga menor-de-edad nga live-in partners matapos nabungguan sang pick-up truck ang ila ginasakyan nga motorsiklo sa Tupi, South Cotabato.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Rigor kag Ruffa Mae.
Nagabyahe ang duwa sang nabungguan sang nagasunod nga salakyan kag nagtabog gid ang mga ini.
Nag-angkon sila sang patal nga pilas sa lawas.
Yara naman sa kustodiya sang otoridad ang driver sang nakabunggo nga pick-up truck.
Amay patay, anak kritikal matapos mabungguan sang motorsiklo
Patay ang isa ka 40-anyos nga amay samtang kritikal naman ang 10-anyos nga anak sini matapos nabungguan sang motorsiklo sa Aguinaldo Highway, Brgy.
Nagatabok sa dalan ang mga biktima nga sanday Arcenio kag bata sini nga si Ken sang nabungguan sila sang motorsiklo nga ginamaneho ni sang 73-anyos nga si alyas “Rodrigo”, residente sang Quezon City.
Bangud sa impact, nagtabog gid ang mga biktima.
Nadala pa sa ospital ang duwa apang wala nakaluwas ang amay samtang kritikal naman ang anak.
Ginabulong man sa Binakayan Medical Hospital ang suspek matapos nag-angkon man sang mga pilas.
Magapangatubang man ini sang sampaw-sampaw nga kaso.
BIR officer nga suspek sa pagpatay sa 2 ka gwardiya sang amo nga ahensya, ginpatay man
Patay ang isa ka empleyado sang Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) nga ginatudlo suspek sa pagpatay sa duwa ka security guards.
Natabo ang pagpatay sa mga gwardiya sa sulod mismo sang building sang amo nga ahensya sa Zamboanga.
Ginpatay naman ang BIR officer sang riding-in-tandem samtang kaupod sini ang iya asawa sa isa ka restaurant sa Ipil, Zamboaga Sibugay sang Biyernes.
Ang napatay nga empleyado sang BIR amo si Ian Jude Soriano Nario, 47-anyos nga nag-angkon sang igo sang bala sa ulo.
Madasig naman nga nagpalagyo ang mga suspek sakay sa ila motorsiklo.
Si Nario ang ginatudlo nga may kahilabtanan sa pagpatay mga on-duty security guards nga sanday Dante Miro Jamie, 52, kag Arcadz Dawila Muharal, 41, sa sulod mismo sang BIR building sa Zamboanga Sibugay.
Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sa duwa ka mga insidente.
Naglab-ot sa 82 ka mga balay ang naabo matapos nagluntad ang sunog sa Brgy.
Kapin sa 100 ka pamiyla naman ang naapektuhan.
Suno sa BFP, naglab-ot sa third alarm ang nasambit nga sunog.
Natabo ang sunog kahapon sang kaagahon samtang mahamuok ang katulugon sang mga residente.
Padayon ang imbestigasyon agud matumod ang ginhalinan sang kalayo.
US President Donald Trump, liwat nga ginhatagan ang Iran sang 48 ka oras nga ultimatum agud nga magsugot sa kasugtanan nga ila ginatanyag
Liwat nga ginhatagan ni President Donald Trump ang Iran sang 48 ka oras nga ultimatum agud nga magsugot sa kasugtanan nga ila ginatanyag kag nagpaandm nga magapangatubang ang Iran sang nagakaigo nga penalidad kun padayon ini nga magpamalibad.
Ini nga statement ni Trump ang iya ginbuy-an kadungan sang search and rescue operation sang US forces sa isa ka American pilot nga nagtibusok sa Iran.
Nahibaluan nga na-down ang isa ka F-15 kag A-10 nga eroplano sang US, kun sa diin natigayun nga maluwas ang isa sa mga piloto sini samtang ang isa ang padayon nga missing.
Nagapadayon ang pagpangita sa amo nga pilota kaupod ang lokal nga pwersa kag tribo kun sa diin may impormasyon halin sa US forces nga ginpaulanan sang bala sang mga Iranian police ang US helicopter nga nagrescue sa piloto.
Isa naman ka strike malapit sa Bushehr nuclear plant ang gintunaan sang kamatayun sang isa ka guwardiya kag nagtuga sang evacuation sang 198 Russian workers.
Nagpaandam naman ang Iran nga posible makaangkun sang radioactive fallout sa rehiyon kun magpadayon ang pagpang-atake sa amo nga planta.
5 ka katapo sang PNP, patay matapos gin-ambush sa Shariff Aguak, Maguindanao del Sur
Patay ang lima ka katapo sang Philippine National Police (PNP) matapos ang mga ini gin-ambush sa Shariff Aguak, Maguindanao del Sur kagab-i.
Base sa inisyal nga imbestigasyon sang mga kapulisan, naga-conduct sang patrol ang mga biktima sang hinali lang ginpaulanan sang bala ang ginasakyan sang mga ini.
Hugot naman nga ginakondena sang Bangsamoro Government ang amo nga pagpang-atake kag nagpasalig ang mga ini nga pasabton ang mga indibidwal nga sa likod sang amo nga krimen.
Nagpalab-ot man ang mga ini sang pagpakig-unong sa pamilya sang mga biktima kag handa ang mga ini nga maghatag sang nagakaigo nga bulig.
Nagpanawagan man ang mga ini sa mga pumuluyo sa amo nga rehiyon sang Bangsamoro nga mangin kalmado santang nagapadayon ang imbestigasyon.
Nabalik nga kuwarta halin sa restitution process, naglab-ot sa masobra P611 million
Naglab-ot sa masobra P611 million ang nabalik nga kuwarta sa kaban ng bayan halin sa restitution process may kaangtanan sa kontrobersiya sang flood control projects suno kay acting Justice Secretary Fredderick Vida.
Ang amo nga kandtidad suno sa ahensya ang naghalin sa mga state witness, anay opisyal kag contractor sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), nga nagbalik sang kuwarta sa gobyerno.
Target sang DOJ nga maibalik ang kantidad nga P1.5 billion.
Ang mga natapos na sang preliminary investigation nga mga dokumento ang ginpasa na sa Office of the Ombudsman para sa pinal nga pag-apruba antes masapaka ang nagakaigo nga kaso sa mga suspek.
Kabahin sa mga posible mapasakaan sang kaso amo sanday Senator Jinggoy Estrada kag anay Public Works Secretary Manuel Bonoan may kaangtanan gihapon sa ginaalegar anomalya sa flood control projects sa Bulacan.
Nagpasiguro ang DOJ nga magapasaka pa ang mga ini sang dugang nga kaso sa iban pa nga naulamid agud mapanabat ang tanan nga may kahilabtanan flood control scandal, lakip na diri si anay Ako Bicol Party-List Representative Zaldy Co, nga ginapatihan nga yara sa iban nga pungsod.
DTI, gin-anunsyo nga indi magtaas ang presyo sang mga nagapanguna nga balaklun sa Pilipinas hasta Abril 16
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) nga indi magtaas ang presyo sang mga nagapanguna nga balaklun sa Pilipinas hasta Abril 16, matapos nga nagpasugot ang mga manufacturer kag retailer nga ipaiway anay ang pagdugang sang presyo apisar sang pagtaas sang gastos dala sang nagapadayon nga kinagamo sa Middle East.
Suno sa DTI, magasugod ang kasugtanan sa Abril 1 kag sakop sini ang pila ka mga importante nga mga produkto.
Pagasabtun anay sang mga kumpanya ang dugang nga gastos sa logistics kag inventory agud magpabalin ang presyo sang mga balaklon.
Ginklaro sang ahensya nga wala sang price freeze kag boluntaryo ang amo nga kasugtanan.
Ang price control ang ginapatuman lamang sa idalum sang mga importante nga sitwasyon pareho sang kalamidad.
Tinutuyo sini nga malikawan ang pagtaas sang presyo nga indi kinahanglan sang pwersahan nga solusyon halin sa gobyerno.
Padayon sa karun ang monitoring sang DTI sa bilog nga pungsod agud maisguro nga ginasunod ang amo nga kasugtanan.
Possible nga epekto sa pag-suspend sang excise tax sa produktong petrolyo, gina-review suno kay Palace Press Officer Claire Castro
Gina-review pa subong ang possible nga mangin epekto sang pag-suspend ukon pagbuhin sang excise tax sa produktong petrolyo suno kay Palace Press Officer undersecretary Claire Castro.
Suno kay Castro, nagsugilanon ang mga ini kaupod si Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Sharon Garin kag padayon ang pagpang-usisa bangud pabag-o bag-o ang presyo sang langis sa merkado.
Ginpaathag man ni Castro nga may yara sang 15-day effectivity matapos ini nga mapatuman bangud kinahanglan nga mahatagan sang tsansa ang mga indibidwal nga involved sang kahigayunan nga maka-preparar sa implementasyon sang amo nga laye base man sa article 2 sang Civil Code bilang “grace period”.
Dugang pa sini nga ang nasambit nga probisyon ang kabahin sang due process kag ang Kongreso lamang ang may kinamatarong nga bag-uhon ini kag indi ang Presidente.
Gerville Luistro, ginklaro nga ang ginahimo sang House Committee on Justice batok sa impeachment ni VP Duterte ang indi isa ka trial
Ini matapos nga nagsulat ang legal team ni VP Duterte kay Luistro kag ginpahayag nga kaangay trial na ang ginahimo sang mga ini sa impeachment ni Duterte nga suno pa sa ila ang hilimuon lamang sang Senado kag indi sang komite sang kamara.
Suno kay Luistro, tinutuyo lang sang hearing nga mahibaluan kun may husto nga ebidensya agud mag-proceed ang kaso sa Senado, kun sa diin hiwatun ang matuod nga trial.
Paathag pa ni Luistro nga ginagamit lang sini ang tinaga nga “mini-trial” agud mas mahapos mahangpan sang publiko nga ini ang una nga proseso pa lang kag indi ang matuod-tuod nga imbestigasyon.
Dugang pa sini nga may kinamatarong ang Kamara nga maghimo sang kaugalingon nga mga laye sa impeachment base sa Konstitusyon.
Matandaan nga si Duterte ang nagapangatubang sang mga reklamo batok sa ginaalegar nga misuse of confidential funds kag pagpamahog sa kabuhi ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., asawa sini nga si first lady Liza Marcos kag former house speaker Martin Romualdez.
Mga OFW sa Qatar, nagalaum nga mangin malinong ang ila pagsaulog sang Holy Week
Nagalaum ang mga Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) sa Qatar nga mangin malinong ang pagsaulog sang mga ini sang Holy Week.
Nahibaluan nga halos isa na ka semana nga wala sang pagpang-atake nga nabatun ang Qatar halin sa Iran.
Suno kay Bombo international correspondent Joseph Rivera direkta sa Qatar, iya ginpakigbahin nga ika-7 na subong nga adlaw nga wala ang mga ini nakabaton sang missile halin sa Iran kag amat-amat naman nga nagabalik sa normal ang pagsinalayo sang pumuluyo sang amo nga pungsod.
Apisar sang positibo nga sitwasyon, nagpaandam sa gihapon ang Qatari government sa ila nasakpan nga indi magsalig sang husto, bangud wala pa gihapon nag-untat ang pagbaslanay sang Iran kag Amerika.
Ginpasangkad naman sang kaiping nga mga pungsod sang Iran ang ila military defense lakip na diri ang Qatar.
DOTr Acting Secretary Lopez, istoryahon si DSWD Secretary Gatchalian agud mahatagan man sang ayuda ang mga konduktor sang bus
Istoryahon pa ni Department of Transportation (DOTr) Acting Secretary Giovanni Lopez si Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) Secretary Rex Gatchalian agud nga mahatagan man sang ayuda ang mga konduktor sang bus bangud wala ang mga ini nalakip sa fuel subsidy sang gobyerno.
Suno kay DOTr Secretary Giovanni Lopez, igadangop niya ini paagi sa programa sang DSWD nga Assistance to Individuals in Crisis Situations (AICS).
Nagpasiguro naman si DSWD Secretary Rex Gatchalian, nga bukas ang ila ahensya sa pagbulig sa mga iga-refer sa ila.
Dugang pa ni Gatchalian nga kun ma-endorso na kag mapamatud-an, gilayun nga makabatun sang bulig ang mga benepisyaryo.
Senator Loren Legarda, ginsita ang wala pagtambong ni DOE Secretary Sharon Garin sa ila senate hearing kag ginpahayag nga masako ini sa “pagpamolitika”
Ginsita ni Senator Loren Legarda ang indi pagtambong ni Department of Energy Secretary Sharon Garin kag ginpahayag nga wala ini sa ila nga senate hearing bangud masako ini sa “pagpamolitika”.
Nagtuad naman si Legarda nga kun kinahanglan nga mag-obra ang mga ini bisan holy week, himuon nila agud lamang mahatagan sang solusyon ang problema sang publiko sa gatong.
Matapos ginpangita sa hearing, nag-abot man si Garin.
Sa pagpadayon sang hearing, ginplastar ni Garin nga kampante siya nga may kuhaan ang gobyerno sang suplay sang langis agud mapabaskog ang reserba sang pungsod.
Suno sa iya, kuhaon ang suplay halin sa iban nga pungsod kaangay sang South Korea, China, kag Japan.
Una na niya ginpahayag nga may 1 million barrels sang diesel nga ginatrabaho kag gina-order ang gobyerno nga balor P10 billion.
Senator Loren Legarda, nagtaas ang tingog matapos sini nabatun ang sabat sang executive branch natuhoy sa gilayun nga pag-abrubar sang senado sa suspension sang excise tax sa gatong
Nagtaas ang tingog ni Senator Loren Legarda matapos sini nabatun ang sabat sang executive branch natuhoy sa gilayun nga pag-abrubar sang senado sa suspension sang excise tax sa gatong.
Suno kay Legarda nga indi klaro ang panindugan sang administrasyon bangud sang nagmandu ang mga ini nga himuon nga “urgent” ang suspension sang excise tax, gilayun ini nga ginpasar sa Senado, apang sang naaprubahan na ini, ginsabat lamang sila sang executive branch sang “we will see”.
Ginkwestyon man ni Legarda ang pahayag sang pila ka energy officials nga nag-submit na ang mga ini sang mensahe agud nga magpangayo sang dugang nga budget para sa Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), apang ginpahayag nila nga naka-break ang kongreso rason nga wala ini naaprubahan.
Paathag ni Legarda nga daw kaangay ginagamit ini nga rason agud nga indi gilayun masolusyunan ang isyu sa fuel tax kag nagapakita sang indi consistent nga polisa sang administrasyon.
PBBM, gin-aprubahan na ang pag-ilis sang 4 ka quarter nga academic calendar, sa 3 na lamang ka term, epektibo sugod sa School Year 2026–2027
ang pag-ilis sang apat ka quarter nga academic calendar, sa tatlo na lamang ka term, epektibo sugod sa School Year 2026–2027.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Leonil Salvilla, tagpababa sang Department of Education (DepEd) Schools Division of Iloilo, iya ginpaathag nga tinutuyo sang amo nga panibag-o nga sistema nga mapaayo ang kalidad sang pagtuon sang mga estudyante, pamaagi sa mas malawig kag tayuyon nga adlaw sang klase; mas hilway nga pacing sang lessons, ilabi na kun may suspensyon sang klase bangud sa bagyo ukon iba pa nga kalamidad.
Dugang pa ni Salvilla nga sa idalum sang bag-o nga pagsulundan, makaangkun sang 54 ka adlaw sang klase kag 6 tubtub 10 ka adlaw para sa enrichment block sa Term 1 , 55 ka adlaw kag 6 tubtub 10 man ka adlaw nga enrichment block para sa Term 2, kag 61 ka adlaw sa Term 3 nga may 6 ka adlaw nga enrichment block.
Ginapanan-aw nga mangin dako ini nga bulig sa mga estudyante, agud nga may yara ang mga ini sang mas tayuyun nga pag-eskwela, samtang mabuhinan man ang workload sang mga manunudlo bangud sa mas malip-ot nga grading cycle kag naka-schedule nga oras para sa pagpahuway.
Nagapadayon man nga igapatuman ang 180 minimum days sang klase sa tagsa ka school year, bilang kabahn sang reporma sa edukasyon.
Paathag ni Luistro nga indi ini isa ka full trial, rason nga limitado lamang ang makatambong sa amo nga hearing.
Suno kay Luistro, ang mga abogado sang complainant, witness kag respondent lamang ang puwede nga maghatag sang advice sa ila kliyente, apang indi sila pagpahanungutan nga mag-itra sa deliberasyon ukon sa pagkwestyon.
Ang mga miyembro sang Justice Committee lamang ang sarang nga makapamangkot kag mag-cross-examine sang mga witnesses.
Kaupod man sa restriction ang mga kongresista nga indi miyembro sang komite.
Dugang pa ni Luistro nga tinutuyo sang preliminary investigation nga imbestigahan ang ebidensya kag hibaluon kun may probable cause agud nga magpadayon ang kaso.
Kun may makit-an nga probable cause, igapasa ini sa bilog nga House of Representatives para sa masunod nga proseso.
USEC Claire Castro, ginkontra ang pahayag ni Senator Sherwin Gatchalian nga nagapangatubang na sang krisis sa gatong ang pungsod
Ginkontra ni Presidential Communications Office Undersecretary Claire Castro ang pahayag ni Senator Sherwin Gatchalian nga nagapangatubang na sang krisis sa gatong ang pungsod bangud sa padayon nga pagtaas sang presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo.
Suno kay Castro nga indi pa matawag nga oil crisis ang sitwasyon subong bangud wala pa ginakulang ang suplay sang Pilipinas sa langis.
Dugang pa sini nga may ginapaabot nga diesel sa masunod nga semana, nga ginbakal sang Department of Energy halin sa kaiping nga mga pungsod sa Asya.
Nagpasalig naman si Castro nga padayon ang ginahimo nga negosasyon sang gobyerno, agud nga indi magkulang ang supply sang produktong petrolyo sa pungsod.
Apisar sang amo nga paathag ni Castro, ginakabalak-an sa karun sang mga pumuluyo ang panibag-o nga big-time oil price hike sa Martes, Marso 24.
PBBM, handa nga suportaran ang pag-abolish sang Oil Deregulation Law
ang pag-abolish sang Oil Deregulation Law, pananglitan nga maaprubahan ini.
Nahibaluan nga ang Oil Deregulation Law amo ang laye nga nagakakas sang kinamatarong sang gobyerno sa pag-control sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo kag ang tagsa ka mga kumpanya sang langis ang sarang nga maka-set sang ila kaugalingon nga presyo, base sa world market.
Sa isa ka press conference, ginpahayag ni Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro nga nakadepende sa mga lawmakers ang desisyon kun ano ang makapaayo sa pungsod.
Dugang pa ni Castro nga kun para sa benepisyo sang pungsod kag sang mga Pilipino, handa nga magsuporta si President Marcos, ilabi na subong nga tion nga nagapangatubang sang dako nga pagpanghangkat ang nagkalain-lain nga sektor sang pungsod, ilabi na ang sektor sang transportasyon sa padayon nga pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong, bangud sa nagapadayon nga gyera sa Middle East.
VP Sara Duterte, ginalauman nga magapasa sang iya nga sabat sa duha ka impeachment complaints batok sa iya
Bwas nga adlaw, Marso 16, ginalauman nga magpasa na si Vice President Sara Duterte sang iya nga sabat sa duha ka impeachment complaints batok sa iya matapos gindeklarar ini nga sufficient in form and in substance.
Ginpahayag ni House Committee on Justice member kag Bicol Saro Representative Terry Ridon nga matapos na ang 10 ka adlaw nga ginhatag sang komite sa Bise Presidente subong nga weekend para sabton ang mga reklamo.
Pananglitan magpasa sang sabat si VP Sara sa Lunes, ginsiling ni Ridon nga hatagan sang tsansa ang bahin sang mga mamalidha nga nag-endorso sa mga reklamo nga impeachment kag pagkatapos hatagan man sang kahigayunan si VP Sara nga magsumite sang iya nga rejoinder.
Ginpaathag man sang mamalidha nga mahimo mapanubo ang dalagan sang impeachment process kun indi magpasa sang sabat si VP Sara bwas.
Hugot man nga ginpanginwala ni Ridon ang akusasyon ni VP Sara nga isa ka “fishing expedition” ang impeachment proceedings batok sa iya.
Samtang, natalana patigayunon ang sunod nga hearing sang Justice Committee sa Miyerkules, Marso 18.
Ridon, talakayon diri ang mosyon ni Rep.
Chel Diokno kaangot sa posible nga conflict of interest sang duha ka abogado ni VP Sara nga sanday anay Education ASec.
Reynold Munsayac kag anay DepEd Spokersperson Michael Poa.
Terry Ridon, gin-hingyu si VP Sara Duterte nga i-eksplikar ang ginapahayag P50 Million “wealth gap” sini
Terry Ridon kay Vice President Sara Duterte nga eksplikar ang ginapahayag P50 Million “wealth gap” sini.
Sa isa ka press conference, ginplastar ni Ridon nga miyembro man sang House Committee on Justice ang posible nga pagpangayo sang amo nga komitiba sang financial documents ni Duterte nahanungod sa proceedings sang iya impeachment complaints.
Gintuad man ni Ridon nga sarang ang mga ini nga magpangayo sang subpoena para sa income tax returns kag business records ni VP Duterte agud nga i-eksplikar ang ginapahayag P50-million “wealth gap” sa tunga sang iya estimated government salary kag declared net worth.
Dugang pa ni Ridon nga posible i-request sang House Committee on Justice ang SALNs, bank records, income tax returns, kag SEC registration sang tanan nga negosyo sang pamilya Duterte-Carpio agud mahibaluan ang ginahalinan sang makaduluda nga manggad sang mga ini nga suno kay Ridon ang gulpiyada nga nagtaas sa nagliligad nga mga tuig.
Kathy Gorriceta kag iya bana nga si former 2nd district Rep.
Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson, sikyarun ang kredibilidad sang ‘cash delivery scheme’ nga ginaalegar sang pila ka mga anay suldado nga nagpahayag bagman ni Zaldy Co
Nagpahayag si Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson nga kinahanglan nga sikyarun ang kredibilidad sang source kag kamatuoran sang impormasyon may kaangtanan sa alegasyon nga nag-deliver sang mga maleta nga puno sang kuwarta ang anay miyembro sang Philippine Marine Corps sa pila ka mga opisyal sang gobyerno, lakip na kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Suno kay Lacson, ang imbestigasyon sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee sa ginaalegar ‘cash delivery scheme; ang nakadepend lamang sa ebidensya.
Ang pahayag ang sabat sa panawagan sang Iglesia Ni Cristo spokesperson Edwil Zabala para sa pagpasabat sa ginapahayag kurapsyon sa mga flood control projects.
Matandaan man nga ang nasambit nga ‘cash delivery scheme’ sang mga anay suldado, ang pormal na nga gin-file ni Atty.
Undersecretary Claire Castro, gintawag nga “lousy script, not award-worthy” ang mga alegasyon sang 18 ka mga anay Marines nga nag-alegar nga nagdul-ong sang bilyones pesos kay PBBM kag kay rep.
Gintawag ni Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro nga “lousy script, not award-worthy” ang mga alegasyon sang 18 ka mga anay Marines nga nag-alegar nga nagdul-ong sang bilyones pesos kay Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kag kay anay House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
Matandaan nga kahapon nga adlaw sa isa ka press conference, kaupod si Atty.
Levito Baligod, ginpahayag sini nga ang mga ginahingadlan nga mga ‘ex-Marines’ ang anay security personnel ni former Ako Bicol Rep.
Zaldy Co nga nagadeliver sang kwarta sa pila ka mga opisyal sang gobyerno.
Gintuad man ni Baligod nga ang 18 ka mga ex-marines ang nagpabaylo sang $2 million nga ginpahayag para kuntani sa mga International Criminal Court (ICC) investigators apang gintugyan ini kay anay Senador Antonio Trillanes IV nga hugot man nga ginpanginwala ini nga alegasyon.
Suno kay Castro, mga ‘smear campaign’ lamang ini batok kay Marcos kag gintugyan na sa National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), Philippine National Police (PNP) kag Department of Justice (DOJ) ang pag-imbestigar batok sa mga ginapahayag sala nga alegasyon kay Marcos.
Mga ebidensya batok kay anay President Rodrigo Duterte, mapag-un suno sa isa ka human rights lawyer
Ginakabig sang isa ka human rights lawyer nga mapagu-an ang mga ebidensya nga igapresentar sa International Criminal Court (ICC) subong nga adlaw, kasunod sang Confirmation of Charges batok kay anay President Rodrigo Duterte.
Jobert Pahilga, iya ginpahayag nga madamo sang mga ebidensya nga ginsumiter ang abogado sang mga biktima sang lapnagon nga pagpamatay sa idalum sang administrasyon ni Duterte, nga mas kilala bilang kampanya kontra iligal nga droga ukon “war on drugs.”
Ginklaro man ni Pahilga nga wala sang basehan ang impormasyon nga ginapalapta sang pila ka mga supporter ni Duterte nga mabasura gilayun ang kaso sa tion pa lamang sang confirmation of charges sa ICC.
Paathag ni Pahilga, ang tinutuyo sang confirmation of charges hearing amo ang paghibalo kun may husto kag mabug-at nga ebidensya batok sa akusado agud ipadayon ang kaso sa full trial.
Apang kun mapamatud-an nga kulang ang ebidensya, posible man nga ibasura ang kaso.
‘All-senators caucus’, patigayunon sang Senado sa Lunes, Pebrero 23, agud iplastar ang mga topiko nga posible mangin sentro sang diskusyon sa Chinese Embassy
Magapatigayun sang all-senators caucus ang Senado sa Lunes, Pebrero 23, agud iplastar ang mga topiko nga posible mangin sentro sang diskusyon sa Chinese Embassy may kaangtanan sa tensyon sa West Philippine Sea (WPS), suno kay Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson.
Ginlaragway ni Lacson ang pagbukas sang China sa dayalogo bilang “breath of fresh air” kag bilang kahigayunan agud mabuhinan ang mainit nga debate sa tunga sang mga senador kag opisyal sang China.
Ginpaathag niya nga indi tinutuyo sang amo nga pagsinapol nga istoryahan ang Kalayaan Island Group, kundi maghimo sang klaro nga komunikasyon agud malikawan ang gamo.
Ginmensionar man ni Lacson nga handa siya nga bisitahun ang Pag-asa Island sa Kalayaan Island Group, nga amo ang nagaisahanon nga gina-istaran nga barangay sa isla.
Gindayaw niya ang pagpatindog sang high school sa isla bilang sabat sa kakulangan sa imprastruktura.
Suno kay Lacson, importante nga maprotektahan sang Pilipinas ang Pag-asa Island kag siguraduhon nga padayon nga magamit sang mga residente ang ila kinamatarung, lakip na ang pagboto kag pag-eskwela.
Abante, kumpiyansa nga makakuha sang husto nga boto ang kamara agud mapadala sa Senado ang impeachment complaint batok kay VP Duterte
Bienvenido Abante nga makakuha sang husto nga boto ang House of Representatives agud mapadala sa Senado ang impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte, bisan pa may mga bag-o nga petisyon batok sa iya.
Suno kay Abante, indi kinahanglan sang dako nga boto kay husto na ang one-third (1/3) sang mga miyembro sang Kamara para mapasar ang kaso kag masuguran ang impeachment trial sa Senado.
Sa karon, apat na nga impeachment complaints ang na-file batok kay Duterte.
Isa na diri ang ika-apat nga gin-file ni Atty.
Nathaniel Cabrera kag ginsuportahan nanday Deputy Speaker Paolo Ortega V kag Abante, nga may kaangtanan sa pagpahog ni Duterte sa kabuhi ni President Marcos, misuse of confidential funds, kag iban pa.
Matandaan nga na-impeach na si Duterte sang Kamara sang Pebrero 5, 2025, apang wala ini nagpadayon sa Senado kag ginbasura sang Korte Suprema.
‘That’s her choice’ —Marcos sa deklarasyon ni VP Sara nga magapadalagan ini sa pagka-presidente
“Nothing” ang sabat ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
sang ginpamangkot kun ano ang iya reaksyon sa deklarasyon ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga magapadalagan ini sa pagka-presidente sa 2028 elections.
“That’s her choice,” suno pa kay Marcos sa desisyon sang iya anay running-mate.
Ginpamangkot pa gid si Marcos sa iya mahambal bangud sa ginapalutaw subong nga espekulasyon nga maga-upod ang iya utod nga si Senator Imee Marcos kay Sara Duterte.
“Again, again, this is all politics,” suno sa presidente kag nagpamalibad na sa pagsabat.
Pahayag sini, ang iya lamang nga katuyuan sa pagbisita sa Naga amo nga mangita sang solusyon sa pagbaha sa amo nga syudad.
Nauna naman sini ginsiling nga wala sila sang na-istoryahan ni Mayor Robredo kaangot sa pulitika kag 2028 elections: “Serbisyo muna bago politika.”
Pink ang nangin campaign color ni Robredo sang nagpadalagan ini sa 2022 presidential elections kontra kay Marcos.
Nahibaluan nga personal nga ginpangunahan sang presidente ang inspeksyon sa operasyon sang Oplan Kontra Baha nga amo ang flood mitigation initiative sang national government sa Sagop Creek sa Barangay Triangulo.
Kaupod ni Marcos nga nag-abot sa Naga si DPWH Secretary Vince Dizon.
‘Serbisyo muna bago politika’: Marcos, ginklaro nga wala sang pulitika sa ila pagkitaay ni Robredo
sa istorya-pulitika kadungan sang iya pagpakigkita kay Naga City Mayor Leni Robredo subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 21.
Suno sa presidente, serbisyo ang dapat nga gina-una kag indi pulitika.
Pahayag pa sini, ang isahanon nga “political thing” nga iya ginhimo subong nga adlaw amo ang pagsuksok sang pink nga medyas.
Pink ukon rosas ang nangin campaign color ni Robredo sang nagpadalagan ini sa 2022 presidential elections kontra kay Marcos.
Nagbalibad man sa paghatag sang komento si Marcos kaangot sa deklarasyon ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga magapadalagan siya sa pagka-presidente sa 2028, kag sa espekulasyon nga posible mag-upod si Senator Imee Marcos sa iya.
We will get into that,” pahayag ni Marcos nga nagatumod sa pulitika.
Antes ang iya pag-abot sa Naga, nagtunog ang espekulasyon kun istoryahan ayhan ang ila alyansa ni Robredo.
Sa bahin sang former vice president, una na sini ginklaro nga masako siya sa mga problema sa Naga kag wala pa sa iya pinsar ang pulitika.#
Bag-o nga talatapan nga magapokus sa pagpauswag sang industriya sang kape sa Pilipinas, pagabuksan suno DA
Magabukas ang gobyerno sang isa ka bag-o nga talatapan nga magapokus sa pagpauswag sang industriya sang kape sa Pilipinas, suno sa Department of Agriculture (DA).
Ini nga tikang sang DA ang may tinutuyo nga buhion ang sektor sang kape nga sa karon nagapangatubang sang dako nga mga pagpanghangkat.
06 nga ginpagwa ni DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., iya ginmanduan ang pagtukod sang Coffee Industry Development Office (CIDO) agud hugpungon sa isa lamang ka opisina ang mga programa, pondo, kag polisiya para sa kape nga anay ginadumalahan sang nagkalain-lain nga mga unit.
Suno kay Tiu Laurel, paagi sini makaangkun sang separado nga opisina nga magatutok lamang sa pagpauswag sang industriya sang kape.
Dugang pa niya, madugay nga ginakabig nga ikaduha lamang nga tanum ang kape, apang karon kinahanglan na ini hatagan sang mas dako nga atensyon kag estratehiko nga pagdumala.
Ang pagtukod sang CIDO nakabase sa Executive Order No.
Mga senador sang Pilipinas, handa nga makigsapol sa embahada sang China may kaangtanan sa isyu sa West Philippine Sea (WPS), suno kay Senador Ping Lacson
Handa nga makigsapol ang mga senador sang Pilipinas sa embahada sang China may kaangtanan sa isyu sa West Philippine Sea (WPS), suno kay Senador Panfilo “Ping” Lacson.
Ini matapos nga ginpahayag ni Chinese Ambassador Jing Quan nga bukas siya nga makig-istorya sa mga lideres sang Pilipinas agud mabuhinan ang tensyon sa tunga sang mga diplomatiko sang China kag mga opisyal sang Pilipinas.
Dugang pa ni Lacson, iya nga ipangabay kay Senate President Vicente Sotto III nga imbitarun ang mga Chinese diplomats sa isa ka diskusyon.
Lakip sa amo nga pagsugilanon ang mga miyembro sang majority sa Senado, samtang mahimo man magpadala sang representante ang minority.
Suno pa kay Lacson nga dapat man updon sa diyalogo sanday Senador Francis Pangilinan, Senador Risa Hontiveros, kag si Erwin Tulfo nga amo ang chairman sang Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
Paathag ni Lacson nga mas manami kun mag-atubangay ang duha ka partido sa Senado, sa embahada, ukon sa isa ka neutral nga lugar, agud propesyonal kag diplomatiko ang pag-istorya sang nasambit nga isyu.
Claire Castro, nagpahayag nga madamo na ang kahuluya nga gin-ubra ni VP Sara
Ini matapos ang statement sang bise presidente nga indi na paghatagan sang atensyon kag pamatian si Castro bangud nga nagadala lang ini sang kahuluy-an sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Castro, madamo ang mga kahuluya nga gin-ubra ni Duterte kaangay sang pasumbag sini sa isa ka sheriff, indi pagsunod sa korte, kag pagamit sang ginpahayag peke nga Armed Forces Certificates agud tabunan ang iya confidential funds.
Madumduman nga pila na ka beses nga nagbaslanay sang ila sentimento ang duha ka opisyal.
Malacañang, ginpanginwala ang huring-huring nga may colon cancer si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Hugot nga ginpanginwala sang Malacañang ang mga huring-huring nga may colon cancer si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., matapos ang iya sakit nga diverticulitis.
Ini ang kasunod sang pahayag ni anay presidential spokesperson Harry Roque nga nagagamit si Marcos sang colostomy bag tungod sa colon-related surgery.
Ginpanginwala sang palasyo ang pahayag kag gintawag nga ‘peke’ ang laragway nga ginpakigbahin ni Roque sa iya social media.
Ginhinyo ni Communications Undersecretary Claire Castro ang publiko nga indi magpati ukon magpalapnag sang fake news, bangud posible ini makaguba sa Presidente kag sa ekonomiya sang Pilipinas.
Ginpanginwala man sang Malacañang ang pahayag ni Bise Presidente Sara Duterte nga target sang administrasyon ang iban nga senador, kag ginakabig ini nga isa man ka sala nga istorya.
Suno kay Castro, indi ini ang una nga kahigayunan nga nagpalapta si Duterte sang sala nga impormasyon parte sa gobyerno.
Cayetano, nanindugan nga indi sila mga Tsinador
Wala ginpalampas ni Senate Minority Leader Alan Peter Cayetano ang mga nagatawag sa ila nga pro-China ukon mga Tsinador.
Partikular sini nga namunuhan ang pahayag sang political analyst kag anay Cabinet Secretary nga si Ronald Llamas batok sa mga ginapahayag “pro-China” nga senador nga wala nagpirma sa resolusyon sang Senado nga nagakundena sa mga pahayag sang Chinese Embassy.
Sabat naman ni Cayetano, palareho lang nga nagapanindugan ang mga senador nga iya sang mga Pilipino ang West Philippine Sea, apang kun wala sila nagpirma, wala man ini nagakahulugan nga nagadampig na sila sa Beijing.
Yung approach natin ang iba… Pareho nating mahal ang Pilipinas,” suno kay Cayetano.
Nahibaluan nga sa column ni Llamas, ginpahayag sini nga ginatawag sang mga Pilipino nga “Tsinador” ang siyam ka mga senador nga nagpamalibad sa pagpirma sa resolusyon nga ginpirmahan sang 15 sa ila kaupdanan.
Ini nga resolusyon nagapanawagan sa Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) nga maghimo sang mabakod nga diplomatic action batok sa Chinese embassy sa Manila.
Nagakondena man ini nga resolution sa mga pagpang-atake sang embahada sa government officials lakip na sa mga senador kag kongresista nga nagadepensa lamang sa posisyon sang Pilipinas sa West Philippine Sea.
Kahapon, Pebrero 9, dalayon nga napasar sa upper chamber ang amo nga resolusyon.#
Mayor Treñas, ginpakakas na ang mga “unnecessary graphics” sa mga service vehicle sang siudad
Ginpakakas na ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang mga “unnecessary graphics” kaangay sang “Uswag Ilonggo”, Rise Iloilo kag iban pa nga sticker sa mga service vehicle sang Iloilo City Government.
Ini ang kaangot sa Anti-Epal Drive ukon ang ginpagwa sang Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) Memorandum 2026-006 nga nagamandu sa tanan nga government offices nga sigurohon nga wala sang pangalan, litrato, logo, initials, color motif, slogan kag iban pa nga identifying symbol sang public official sa mga proyekto kag kagamitan nga ginpondohan sang gobyerno.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, spokesperson ni Mayor Raisa Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga nagpanaug sang Office Order ang City Administrator sang Pebrero 5 sa tanan nga offices nga ginhatagan sang service vehicle nga kakson na ang mga sticker kag slogan.
Suno kay Fantilaga, target nga maubos na ini ka pangkakas subong nga semana.
Madumdoman nga una man nga ginpangkakas ang mga litrato kag slogan sang alkalde sa Atipan Center sang Iloilo City Hall.
32 ka tawo, patay samtang 160 naman ang nasamaran matapos nga nag-atake ang isa ka suicide bomber sa Shiite Mosque sa Pakistan
Patay ang 32 ka tawo samtang 160 ang nasamaran matapos nga nag-atake ang isa ka suicide bomber sa isa ka Shiite mosque sa Islamabad, Pakistan samtang nagahiwat sang Friday prayers.
Ginpangunahan sang grupo nga ISIS ang pag-atake, kag nadakpan na ang ginpahayag nga mastermind, kaupod ang apat (4) ka suspek nga nagbulig sa preparasyon sang pagpang-atake.
Ini ang isa sa brutal nga pag-atake sa Pakistan humalin pa sang Enero 2023, kag nagapakita nga padayon nga may peligro sa terorismo sa amo nga pungsod.
Nagtambong ang linibo ka mga tawo sa funeral prayers sa idalom sang hugot nga seguridad, samtang gin-kondena sang gobyerno sang Pakistan, US, kag Afghanistan ang insidente bilang krimen batok sa katawhan ukon cime against humanity.
Nagapati si Iloilo Provincial Vice Governor Nathalie Ann Debuque nga indi ‘standard’ sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang pag-usar sang public officials sa mga government-funded project agud nga mag-promote sang ila personal nga identity.
Mayor Treñas, ginkakas na ang iya litrato sa Atipan Center; Rep.
Ginpakakas na ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang iya litrato kag slogan sa puertahan sang Atipan Center sa 7th floor sang Iloilo City Hall.
Ini kasunod man sa pagpapanaog sang Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) Memorandum 2026-006 sang nagligad nga Enero 29 angot sa anti-epal policy.
Ini agud nga mapasiguro nga wala sang ngalan, litrato, logo, initials, color motif, slogan ukon bisan ano nga identifying symbol sang public official ang makit-an sa mga signage, marker, tarpaulin kag iban pa nga materyales nga ginbayaran sang pondo sang gobyerno.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, spokesperson ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Trenas, iya ginpahayag nga nakatalana man nga magpapanaog sang memorandum sa tanan nga opisina agud nga mapatuman sang maayo kag mapakakas na ang mga pangalan sang mga politiko sa mga proyekto.
Nagpadala man sang sulat si Treñas sa opisina nga in-charge sa programa kag proyekto sang siudad nga nagamando nga likawan na ang pagbutang sang mga pangalan sang mga opisyal sa ano man nga mga materyales kag istruktura.
Suportado naman ni Congresswoman Julienne “Jam-Jam” Baronda ang Anti-Epal Drive kun sa diin nagpahayag ini nga maayo gid ini nga pagsulundan kag gindayaw pa ang DILG.
Nahibaluan nga sa iya opisina, ginpangkakas naman ang pila ka mga litrato kag slogan sini.
Ginpadal-an naman sang sulat ni Baronda ang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) nga i-check ang mga proyekto ukon buildings kag kun may pangalan sini ukon litrato, gilayon ini nga ipakakas.
Lacson, ginkumpirma nga ginrekomenda sang komite ang pagpasaka sang kaso sa tatlo ka incumbent senators
Ginkumpirma ni Senate President Pro Tempore kag Senate Blue Ribbon Committee Chairman Ping Lacson nga ginrekomenda sang committee ang pagpasaka sang kaso nga plunder kag graft batok sa tatlo ka incumbent senators kag tatlo ka mga anay matag-as nga opisyal sang gobyerno bangud sa kahilabtanan sa anomalya sa flood control projects.
Nalakip sa mga ginhingadlan amo sanday Senator Jinggoy Estrada, Senator Joel Villanueva kag Senator Chiz Escudero amo man ang mga anay mamalidha nga sanday Bong Revilla, Zaldy Co, kag Mitch Cajayon-Uy.
Suno kay Lacson, nagapangatubang na sa imbestigasyon ang mga ini kag may pila man nga ginmanduan nga arestuhon bangud sa pagkaulamid sa nasambit nga anomalya.
Sa karun, apat (4) pa lamang ang nagpirma sa nasambit nga draft kag indi pa ini opisyal nga report sang committee.
Ang mga nagpirma pa lamang sa karun amo sanday Lacson, senator Risa Hontiveros, senator Bam Aquino, kag senator Kiko Pangilinan, matapos nga nag-atras ang tatlo ka myembro.
Kinahanglan sa karun sang onse (11) ka pirma agud mapresentar ang nasambit nga report sa plenaryo sang Senado.
Andre de Jesus kag gin-endorso ni Pusong Pinoy Party-list Rep.
Partikular nga gintumod ni De Lima ang ‘supporting factual allegation’ may kaangtanan sa ginaalegar nga pag-kidnap kag pag-surrender kay anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte sa International Criminal Court.
Ginhimo sang mamalidha ang pahayag kasunod sang ginpatigayun nga deliberasyon sang House Committee on Justice sa “sufficiency on substance” sang una nga impeachment complaint batok sa Presidente subong nga adlaw sang Martes, Pebrero 3.
Ini nagakahulugan nga ang bahin sang nasambit nga impeachment complaint batok kay Marcos ang kulang sa ebidensya agud nga ipadayon ang nasambit nga impeachment.
Manny Villar, hugot nga ginpanginwala ang mga akusasyon batok sa ila pamilya
Hugot nga ginpanginwala ni anay senator kag Villar group chairman Manny Villar ang mga akusasyon batok sa ila pamilya.
Base sa statement nga ginpagua ni Villar, iya ginpahayag nga bilang tanda sang ila pagka-inosente, nagkooperar gid ang mga ini sa imbestigayson sang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Dugang pa sini nga nangin transparent man ang mga ila pamilya sa ila financial status.
Ginbalikan man ni Villar ang mga tinion nga nagabulig ini sa iya iloy sa pagbaligya sa merkado, bilang tanda sang iya mainubuson nga pagsugod sa kabuhi padulong sa kadalag-an.
Sa karun suno kay Villar, handa ang mga ini nga magkooperar sa imbestigasyon agud nga mapamatud-an nga wala sang sala ang iya pamilya batok sa mga alegasyon nga gina-haboy sa ila.
Matandaan nga nagpasaka sang kaso-kriminal ang SEC batok sa Villar Land Holdings Corp.
kag pila ka miembro sang Villar family bangud sa alegasyon nga market manipulation, insider trading, kag misleading disclosures.
Ginhingadlan nga respondents sa kaso nga gin-file sa Department of Justice si Manny Villar, ang asawa sini nga si former senator Cynthia Villar, amo ang ila mga anak nga sanday Senator Camille Villar, Senator Mark Villar, kag Manuel Paolo Villar, upod man ang iban nga directors kag independent directors nga sanday Cynthia J.
Javarez, Ana Marie Pagsibigan, kag Garth Castañeda.
Gilas player nga si Kai Sotto madali na ini nga magabalik sa paghampang
Gin-anunsyo sang basketball player nga si Kai Sotto nga madali na ini nga magabalik sa paghampang.
Ini matapos ang halos isa ka tuig sini nga rehabilitasyon bangud sa iya Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) injury.
Ginpakigbahin sini sa iya Instagram nga dalayon na ini nga naga-ayo sa iya injury halin sang 2025 kag handa na ini nga magabalik.
Liwat man nga magapasakop si Sotto sa iya kopunan sang nagligad nga off-season bilang ikatatlo na sini nga pagpasakop sa Japanese league kag ikalima naman sini para sa international competition.
Ginalauman nga makabulig gid ang iya nga pagbalik indi lamang sa Koshigaya kundi pati man sa Gilas Pilipinas.
Ilabi na sa importante sini nga papel sa FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament sang tuig 2024.
Sa nasambit nga torneo, ginpangunahan nanday Sotto kag Justin Brownlee ang koponan sa isa ka makasaysayan nga pagkadaog batok sa Latvia apang wala nila sa gihapon nalab-ot ang Paris Olympics.
PBBM, ginpaidalum sa medical treatment matapos makabatyag sang “discomfort”
kagab-i matapos ini ginpahayag nga nakabatyag sang “discomfort” ukon paglain sang pamatyag.
Claire Castro, iya ginpahayag nga ang “discomfort” nga nabatyagan ni Marcos ang possible bangud sa tuman sini nga kakapoy sa pag-obra sang iya katungdanan bilang presidente.
Dugang pa sini nga, gin-abisuhan sang iya doctor si President Marcos nga magpahuway kag ipaidalom sa monitoring.
Sa karun, yara na sa estable nga kondisyon ang president kag nagpasalig naman si Castro nga magapadayon ang serbisyo ni President Marcos samtang padayon ini nga nagapaayo.
Defense secretary sang Pilipinas, nagakabalaka sa military drill sang China sa palibot sang Taiwan
Nagakabalaka ang Defense Secretary sang Pilipinas sa damlag nga military drills sang China sa palibot sang Taiwan, bangud nga mahimo ini makaguba sang kalinong kag stability sang rehiyon, ilabi na sa isla sang Taiwan nga gina-angkon sang Beijing nga iya teritoryo.
Suno kay Defense Secretary Gilbert Teodoro, ang mga tikang sang China kag sang ila coast guard nagadugang sang tensyon sa mahina nga geopolitical nga sitwasyon.
Naglunsar ang China sang mga missiles kag nagdeploy sang madamo nga fighter jets, navy ships, kag coast guard vessels sa palibot sang isla sang Taiwan sa nagliligad nga mga inadlaw antes magtakop ang tuig 2025.
Nahibaluan nga nagsugod ang tensyon sang 1949 sang nagtakop ang Chinese Civil War, ang Communist China nagkontrol sang mainland China samtang ang demokratiko nga Taiwan nagpadayon bilang hiwalay nga gobyerno, apang ginapahayag sang Beijing nga ini parte sang ila teritoryo kag nagbanta sang paggamit sang pwersa agud makuha ini.
Ginpahayag ni Teodoro nga ang amo nga mga aktibidad may dako nga epekto, indi lamang sa relasyon sang Taiwan kag China kundi pati man sa malapad nga Indo-Pacific nga komunidad, kag nagapahanumdom nga kinahanglan sundon ang international law.
Sa karun, wala pa sang opisyal nga deklarasyon halin sa Beijing nga natapos na ang ila military drills.
18 ka soldado sang Cambodia nga gin-detain sang Thailand, ginhilway na
Ginhilway sang Thailand ang 18 ka mga soldado sang Cambodia nga gin-detain halin pa sang bulan sang Hulyo 2025 matapos ang bag-o nga kasugtanan sang ceasefire sang duha ka pungsod.
Natigayon ang pag-turn over sang 18 ka mga soldado kahapon nga adlaw paagi sa isa ka border checkpoint.
Ginpangunahan sang International Committee of the Red Cross ang pag-release sang mga soldado, nga ginpahayag bilang isa ka importante nga tikang agud mabalik ang kalinong sa tunga sang duha ka pungsod.
Suno sa Cambodia, halos lima ka bulan nga gin-detain ang mga soldado, samtang ginpahayag sang Thailand nga gintratar nila ini suno sa international humanitarian law.
Matandaan nga nagsugod ang mga engkwentro sa tunga sang Thailand kag Cambodia sang nagligad nga bulan kag nagpadayon sang halos 20 ka adlaw, nga nagresulta sa madamo nga napatay kag nag-evacuate nga mga sibilyan.
Bilang kabahin sang ceasefire, nagsugot ang Thailand nga hilwayon ang mga soldado matapos magpadayon ang kalinong sa sulod sang 72 ka oras, suno sa ila ginakasugtan.
Iloilo City Engineers Office, ginkumpirma nga wala sang nagakaigo nga excavation permit ang pag-excavate sa bahin sang Guanco St., City proper
Ginkumpirma sang Iloilo City Engineer’s Office nga wala sang nagakaigo nga excavation permit ang mga nagpakilala nga magapatigayon sang excavation sa bahin sang Guanco Street.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Chester Jover, aerial kag excavation permit in-charge sang City Engineer’s Office, iya ginpahayag nga wala gid sila sang bisan ano nga ihibalo ukon pahibalo parte sa ginpatigayon nga excavation sa amo nga lugar, rason nga nagakatingala ang ila opisina kun ngaa may nag-ubra didto nga wala man lang nag-agi sa nagakaigo nga proseso.
Suno kay Jover, antes maghiwat sang bisan ano nga excavation sa siyudad, kinahanglan anay mag-secure sang excavation permit gikan sa City Engineer’s Office, lakip na ang koordinasyon sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya.
Apang base sa ila rekord, wala sang gin-apply ukon gin-aprubahan nga permit para sa Guanco Street sa amo nga tion.
Ginpaandam man ni Jover nga mahimo magpangatubang sang nagakaigo nga kaso ukon penalidad ang sin-o man nga mapamatud-an nga naghiwat sang ilegal nga excavation, bangud ini ang nagalapas sa mga ordinansa sang siyudad kag nagahatag sang peligro indi lamang sa imprastraktura kundi pati na sa publiko.
Sa matandaan nga, una nga ginpahayag sang kapulisan nga wala man sang permit ang mga nagpakilala nga tinawo sang telecommunications company nga ginapatihan nagpatigayon sang repair sa manhole malapit sa bangko kag pawnshop sa Guanco Street.
Ginpahayag man sang kapulisan nga gintuad sang nasambit nga telecommunications company nga wala sila sang ginpatigayon nga maintenance operation sa lugar, kag padayon pa karon ang imbestigasyon sang awtoridad.
Iloilo Provincial Government, tuyo masabat ang kakulangan sang mga classrooms sa probinsya sang Iloilo
Tuyo nga masabat sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang nagapadayon nga kakulangan sang classroom sa probinsya, paagi sa pagtun-over sang P125.320 Million nga pondo para sa programa kag proyekto nga iga-implementar sa bug-os nga Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr.
nga base sa ila assessment, yara sa 1,665 ka classrooms ang kulang sa bug-os nga probinsya.
Sa sini nga record, may yara sang 460 ka classrooms ang ginakabig nga prayoridad kag amo ang una nga pagatutukan sang provincial government.
Suno pa sa gobernador, ginpatigayon na ang maid-id nga pag-assess agud mahibaluan kun diin nga mga eskwelahan ang may pinaka daku nga kinahanglanon kag amo ini ang pagatagaan sang nasambit nga classrooms.
Ang nasambit nga pondo ang naghalin sa Special Education Fund (SEF) nga tinutuyo gid nga makahatag sang solusyon sa problema sa kakulangan sang classroom kag mapauswag ang kahimtangan sang edukasyon sa probinsya.
Dugang pa ni Defensor, ang pagpatindog sang mga classrooms ang iga-implementar sa hugot nga koordinasyon sa Department of Education (DepEd).
Sa karon nga termino kag sa palaabuton pa, nagpasalig ang gobernador nga tinguhaan sang probinsya nga makabaton sang P500 Million nga budget para sa classroom construction, agud nga masiguro nga ang tanan nga bulutuhan sa Iloilo ang may nagakaigo kag husto nga mga hulot para sa pagtuon sang mga kabataan.
Mayor Treñas, wala na ginasapak ang possible nga pamulitika sa naglupok nga isyu sa AICS
Wala na ginasapak ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas ang posible nga pamulitika sa naglupok nga isyu sa Assistance to Individuals in Crisis Situation (AICS).
Ini matapos nga nalakip ang duha ka mga empleyado sang Iloilo City Hall sa 14 ka mga indibidwal, 12 diri ang mga barangay officials, sa ginpasakaan sang kaso sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) sa Office of the Ombudsman matapos ginaalegar nga nagpangbuhin sang AICS sang mga pumuluyo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa alkalde, iya ginpahayag nga kun sapakon niya ini, madula siya sa iya nga goal bilang pinuno sang syudad.
Suno sa iya, ginatugyan na lang niya sa City Legal Office ang paghatag atensyon sa amo nga isyu.
Nahibaluan nga ang mga involved nga city hall employees amo sanday Joebert Lim kag si Johnny Paul Dizon nga naga-duty sa Atipan Center .
Suno man sa alkalde nga iya pa nga ginahibalo ukon ginareview ang status sang mga Job Order angot sa duha ka empleyado sang city hall.
Liga ng mga Barangay sa siudad sang Iloilo, wala sang plano nga magbulig sa mga involved nga mga officials sa AICS scandal
Wala sang plano ang Liga ng mga Barangay sa siudad sang Iloilo nga magbulig sa mga involved nga indibidwal sa pag-abusar sang cash assistance nga para kuntani sa mga naapektuhan sang bagyo.
Ginpahayag ini ni Councilor Irene Ong, presidente sang Liga ng mga Barangay sa siudad, matapos ginpasaka sang Department of Social Welfare and Development ang kaso-administratibo sa barangay officials nga involved sa AICS scandal.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Ong, iya ginpahayag nga hugot ang iya desisyon nga bisan sa idalom sini ang mga opisyales sang barangay nga involved sa kaso, indi siya magbulig sa mga opisyal bangud sala gid ang mga gin-ubra sang mga opisyales.
Dugang man niya, wala siya sang ideya sa mga ginpang-ubra sang mga nasambit nga mga opisyales.
Madumduman nga base sa fact-finding and investigation team sang DSWD nga ginapangunahan ni Assistant Secretary Paul Ledesma nga ginpatigayon sang Nobyembre 24, indi matapos ang tuig kag makilal-an ang mga involved nga mga opisyales.
Gilayon naman nagguwa ang inisyal nga lista sang ila pangalan kasunod sang pag-file sang kaso.
Councilor Sarabia, gintawag nga unbecoming kag unparliamentary ang remarks ni VM Baronda
Gintawag nga unbecoming kag unparliamentary ni Councilor Rex Marcus Sarabia ang remarks ni Vice Mayor Love Baronda kay Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog sa ginpatigayon nga regular session subong nga adlaw, Disyembre 10, 2025.
Ini matapos nag-relinquish bilang presiding officer si Mabilog sang ginboto ini sang konseho kag kun sa diin man ginhambal sa mikropono ni Vice Mayor Baronda nga kinahanglan ni Councilor Mabilog nga mangin “Bigger person”.
Ini man nga tinaga ang wala nagustuhan ni Councilor Sarabia kag gintawag ini nga daw ginahikayan sang bise alkalde ang konsehal.
Dayun man nga ginklaro ni VM Baronda ang iya nga statement nga wala ini sang iban nga kahulugan kag nagatuyo lang sini nga hambalon kay Councilor Mabilog nga kinahanglan sini nga mag-concede sa rule of majority.
Ordinansa nga ginaduso ni Vice Mayor Baronda, ginbasura sang konseho
Ginbasura sang konseho sa first reading ang ordinansa nga luyag tani nga i-duso ni Vice Mayor Love Baronda kadungan sang 23rd Regular Session sang Sangguniang Panlungsod subong nga adlaw.
Suno kay Baronda, katuyuan kuntani sang ordinansa nga may yara sang opisyal nga logo ang konseho, opisyal nga address, kag communication kag protocols bangud isa ini ka requirements sang Department of th Interior and Local Government (DILG).
Matapos wala ini ginsuportahan sang mayorya, nag-apelar si Baronda nga i-reconsider sang mga kaupod nga opisyal gani nga ginhatagan ini sang kahigayunan nga ipresentar liwat sa masunod nga session sa konseho.
Ginsiling naman ni Majority Floor Leader Councilor Rex Marcus Sarabia, wala sang official logo sa ginduso nga ordinansa sang bise-alcalde rason nga wala nila ini ginsuportahan.
Ginpakamaayo man sang konseho nga ipasar liwat ini sang bise alcalde kun may picture na sang official logo sa iya ordinansa.
Nagserbe man nga presiding officer si Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog sa reading sang ordinansa.
Ginkansela na ang pasaporte ni Anay Ako-Bicol Partylist Representative.
Ini ang pahayag ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sa isa ka uploaded video sa iya nga facebook page.
Kaangot ini sa pagpakatig-a gihapon ni Co nga magsungka bangud sa iya kahilabtanan sa maanomaliya nga flood control projects sa pungsod.
Suno man kay Marcos, ginmanduan na niya ang Philippine National Police kag Department of Foreign Affairs kag nakig-angot naman ini sa mga embahada sa iban nga pungsod agud nga masiguro nga indi na makapanago ang anay kongresista.
Ginpasidunggan ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Miss Iloilo 2026 candidates, nagbisita sa Bombo Radyo; nagkalain-lain nga mga adbokasiya ila ginpakigbahin
Nagbisita sa estasyon sang Bombo Radyo ang 12 ka kandidata sang Miss Iloilo 2026, agud ipakigbahin ang ila tagsa ka adbokasiya.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Quin Gomer Dellera, pageant coordinator sang Miss Iloilo, iya ginpadayaw ang pila ka mga balantayan nga segment sang Miss Iloilo 2026.
Halin sa nagkalain-lain nga mga kabanwahanan kag distrito sang siyudad ang ginabug-usan sang 12 ka mga maanyag, kag mga maalam nga mga kandidata nga sanday:
Magapaindis-indis ang mga ini paagi sa ila mga adbokasiya, tourism video amo man ang runway challenge kag costume competition.
Kadungan sang selebrasyon sang Dinagyang 2026, pagahiwaton ang Miss Iloilo 2026 sa bulan sang January.
Nagalaum sa gihapon ang mga church leaders sa Iloilo, nga masulit pa ang mga hublag-kontra korapsyon sa pungsod.
Meliton Oso, iya ginpahayag nga magapadayon ang ila kawsa nga mapanabat ang mga politiko sa likod sang mga kurapsyon.
Ginalantaw man sini nga rason kun ngaa nagbuhin ang nagbuylog sa gintalikdan nga Trillion Peso March Rally kahapon nga adlaw, bangud sa mga importante man nga hilikuton sang pila ka mga organisasyon.
Dugang pa sini nga bangud sa ginhiwat nga Trillion Peso March Rally 2.0, mas nagdamo pa ang kawsa nga ginapakigbato sang tagsa ka hubon sa sosyudad kag indi lamang ang mga maanomalya nga mga flood control projects.
Ginapakigbato man sa karun sang nagkalain-lain nga hubon ang kawsa sang mga manugbaligya, mamumugon, hubon sang mga manugbulong, kawsa sa agrikultura kag kinamatarong sang mga pamatan-on.
Hubon manugbulong, ginpunto ang korapsyon nga nagakatabo sa mga proyekto sang DPHW sa Iloilo
Ginpunto sang hubon sang manugbulong sa ginpatigayun nga Trillion Peso March Rally subong nga adlaw sa bahin sang Iloilo Capitol ground ang mga korapsyon nga nagakatabo sa nagkalain-lain nga distrito sang Iloilo.
Cynthia Cabangal-Ng, Former Hospital Management Head sang Iloilo, iya ginplastar ang pila ka mga proyekto sang Department of Public Works and Highways sa Iloilo City, amo man sa probinsya sang Iloilo nga ginpangbuhinan ang pondo.
Ginpakigbahin man sini ang pila ka mga data sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) ilabi na sa first district sang Iloilo nga may pinakadako nga ghost projects.
Luyag karun sang grupo nga mapanabat ang tanan nga naulamid sa korapsyon sa pungsod.
Baronda, ginpabaskug ang panawagan para sa ‘transparency’ kag ‘accountability’ sa pondo sang gobyerno
Ginpanindugan ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jamjam” Baronda ang ka-importansiya sang kalidad kag husto nga implementasyon sang mga proyekto sa syudad, ilabi na sa isyu sang baha kag mga delayed nga mga infrastructure.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Baronda, ginpahayag niya nga wala sang ghost projects kundi may mga pagka-delay, kag may yara sang monthly report nga ginahimo agud masundan ang progreso.
Suno sa iya, ang Department of Public Works and Highways ang dapat makasabat sa mga pamangkot parte sini, kag ang importante matapos ang proyekto sa husto nga oras kag may kalidad paagi sa pondo nga ginahatag.
Ginpaathag man niya nga may yara sang mga solusyon sa problema sang drainage sa Iloilo, kag kinahanglan lang sang kooperasyon sang tanan agud masolusyunan ini.
Ginbuyagyag man ni Baronda nga ginpamangkot niya si DPWH Secretary Vince Dizon sa budget briefing parte sa feasibility studies sang JICA kag DPWH-6, nga nagahatag sang direksyon sa mga proyekto batok sa baha.
Baronda nga indi palpak ang iya proyekto”
Nagpahayag si former Mayor Jerry Treñas nga ang matuod-tuod nga isyu subong indi ang mga proyekto nga iya sang una, kundi ang mga ginapatuman ni Cong.
Jamjam Baronda nga ginakabig sang mga residente nga palpak kag ‘delayed’.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay former Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, suno sa iya, nagsugod ang kontrobersya bangud sang tatlo ka bagyo nga nagdala sang mabaskug nga ulan, nga nagtuga sang pagbaha sa mga lugar nga wala man ginabaha sang una.
Ginatudlo sang mga residente nga ang mga flood control projects sa Jaro nga ginpatuman ni Cong.
Sang pagkadto ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
sa syudad, ginpahayag man nga palpak kag delayed ang mga proyekto.
Ginsiling ni Treñas nga ang iya mga proyekto sa public markets padayon nga ginahimo, kag bisan may pagka-delayed, makita nga may aktuwal nga trabaho.
Ginpabutyag niya nga indi ini “magic” kag indi pareho sa iban nga proyekto nga daw gina-magic lang ang resulta.
Baronda nga irelease ang records sang mga proyekto ni Treñas, ginpahayag sang former mayor nga ang mga dokumento yara sa Iloilo City District Engineering Office (ICDEO) kag kabalo man siya sang sulod sini.
Suno sa iya, indi na relevant ang pahayag ni Baronda bangud ang isyu subong amo ang mga proyekto ni Baronda mismo.
Dugang pa niya, nga ang presidente na mismo sang Pilipinas ang naghambal sang problema, gani dapat ipakita ni Cong.
Baronda nga indi palpak ang iya ginaubra.
Ginsabat man ni Treñas ang akusasyon ni Baronda nga wala sang flood control planning sang iya administrasyon, kag uno sa iya, isa sa mga major nga proyekto nga iya ginpatuman amo ang “Iloilo flood way” nga nakabulig sa pagsolbar sang baha sa Jaro, La Paz, kag Mandurriao.
‘Kulang na kulang gid’ — konsehal Mabilog wala natagaan sang nagakaigo nga kahigayunan sa RPT committee hearing
Nagresulta sa pagbayluhanay sang mga ideya ang ginhiwat nga committee hearing sang Iloilo City Council natuhoy sa pagpalawig sang 40 porsyento nga reduction sang Real Property Tax sa syudad, matapos ginpunggan si Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog sa pagpamangkot kag nag-walkout ang pila ka mga konsehal.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog, ginpahayag niya nga samtang nagapamangkot siya sa hearing, nakalungan gid siya sang kahigayunan nga magpahayag bangud duha lang ang pamangkot kag duha lang ka follow-up question ang ginatugot.
Suno kay Mabilog, kulang gid ini para matalakay sang husto ang isyu.
Ginsiling man niya nga kun indi ang pamangkot relevant, dapat ini i-point of order, kag indi lang basta hambalon nga para lang sa iya.
Ginpabutyag man ni Mabilog nga suportado niya ang mga diskwento nga pwede mahatag sa publiko, apang kulang pa ang datos nga ginpresentar.
Ginpahayag man nga may nagsiling nga indi man kuno beneficial sa syudad ang Real Property Tax reduction.
Gin-adjourn ang hearing bisan wala pa siya natagaan sang chance nga magpadayon sa pagpamangkot.
Antes pa sini, naguwa na una sanday Councilor Malabor kag Councilor Duron, kag nag-walkout ang pila pa ka konsehal bangud sang tensyon sa sulod sang sesyon.
Councilor Dela Llana, gin-athag nga wala sang pamolitika sa investigation aid of legislation
Sa tunga sang kontrobersya sa baha nga nakaapekto sa anum ka distrito sa Iloilo City, gin-athag ni Councilor Nene Dela Llana nga wala sang pamolitika sa ginapatigayon nga investigation in aid of legislation sang konseho.
Ginpabutyag niya nga ang tinutuyo sini amo ang transparency kag accountability sang mga ahensya nga may kaangtanan sa proyekto.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Dela Llana nga nagpanawagan siya kay DPWH-Iloilo City District Engineering Office (ICDEO) Officer-in-Charge Roy Pacanan matapos ini wala nagtambong sa Quad Committee hearing sang konseho.
Suno sa iya, padal-an liwat sang imbitasyon ang ICDEO para sa masunod nga hearing bangud importante gid ang ila presensya.
Ginpunto niya nga indi ini pamolitika, kundi sabat sa reklamo sang pumuluyo nga naapektuhan sang baha.
Ginsiling pa ni Dela Llana nga kun indi gid makatambong si Engr.
Pacanan, mahimo siya makapadala sang representante sa hearing.
Baronda, ginklaro nga wala sang ginaapinan sa konseho; Councilor Sarabia, nagpangayo sang pasensya
Ginpaathag ni Iloilo City Vice Mayor Lady Julie Grace “Love” Baronda nga wala siya sang ginaapinan ukon ginapaboran sa Iloilo City Council kag ang tanan nga iya tikang yara sa desisyon suno sa mga patakaran sang lokal nga gobyerno.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Vice Mayor Baronda, ginbuyagyag niya nga may alegasyon halin kay Councilor Rex Marcus Sarabia nga kuno may “colluding” nga natabo sa tunga nila ni Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog.
Ginpahayag ni Baronda nga ginpanginwala niya ini bangud ginakabig niya nga seryoso kag indi angay pagpasipalahan.
Suno sa iya, ginpahayag ni Sarabia nga wala niya lang ginbanggit ang isyu sa sesyon agud indi siya mapakaulawan, apang ginpakita ni Baronda nga indi dapat pag-idalum sa hilom ang mga isyu nga naga-apekto sa integridad sang konseho.
Ginpabutyag ni Baronda nga ginpaabot niya gid ang klaripikasyon sa sesyon agud mangin limpyo ang tanan nga panan-aw sang mga konsehal sa iya kapasidad, kag indi siya bias sa sin-o man.
Ginpangayuan man siya sang pasensya ni Councilor Sarabia bangud sang alegasyon.
House Speaker Romualdez, nanindugan nga indi politikal ang motibo sang kamara sa impeachment complaint batok kay VP Sara
Ginpabutyag ni House Speaker Martin Romualdez nga wala sang pulitikal nga tinutuyo ang impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Suno kay Romualdez, ginpahayag sini nga ginatuman lang sang Kamara ang mandato sini sa idalum sang Konstitusyon, kag may nagakaigo nga basehan kag dokumento ang ginpasaka nga reklamo.
Ginpakamalaot man ni Romualdez ang desisyon sang Senado nga i-archive ang complaint bisan wala pa sang final nga desisyon ang Korte Suprema, kag ginbuyagyag nga nagsumiter na sila sang Motion for Reconsideration.
Dugang pa niya, indi ini pagpang-atake kundi kabahin sang pagsiguro nga may accountability ang mga opisyal sang gobyerno.
Ginpat-ud sini nga indi ini away sa Senado kundi pagtindog sa Konstitusyon kag interes sang pumuluyo.
Bangayan ukol sa proyekto sa Buntatala Creek, uminit; Treñas at Baronda nagbatuhan ng pananagutan
Uminit ang palitan ng pahayag sa pagitan ng kampo ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas at Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-Jam” Baronda kaugnay ng kontrobersiyal na waterway projects ng Department of Public Works and Highways, Iloilo City District Engineering Office (DPWH-ICDEO) at ang serye ng pagbaha sa lungsod.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, tagapagsalita ni Mayor Treñas, iginiit niyang imbes tugunan ni Cong.
Baronda ang mga usapin sa proyektong nakakaapekto sa mga daluyan ng tubig, pinili nitong itulak ang pulitikal na naratibo.
Ayon sa kanya, ang matinding pagbaha na nararanasan ngayon sa mga barangay malapit sa Buntatala, Dungon, Nabitasan, Mohon, at Bakhaw Creeks ay dulot ng mga proyektong isinagawa nang walang sapat na koordinasyon sa lokal na pamahalaan.
Tinukoy rin ni Fantilaga-Gorzal ang mga natuklasan ng Iloilo City Drainage Task Force, kabilang na ang slope protection project sa gilid ng Buntatala Creek na may taas na anim (6) na metro at ang konstruksyon ng Iloilo City Access Road Section 1 (Bike Lane) na umano’y nakapasok sa mismong creek channel, bagay na maaaring nakakapigil sa natural na agos ng tubig.
Ngunit mabilis na bumuwelta ang kampo ni Cong.
Sa inilabas na pahayag ng kanyang opisina, sinabi nitong ang alkalde ay pilit umanong inililihis ang isyu matapos maglabas , at kalauna’y bawiin ni Mayor Treñas ng cease and desist order laban sa mga proyektong pinopondohan ng nasyonal.
Ayon sa kanila, hindi pa rin makapagpakita ng malinaw na ebidensya ang kampo ni Mayor Treñas hinggil sa umano’y pagsang-ayon ni DPWH Secretary Manuel Bonoan sa pagpapatigil ng proyekto sa Buntatala Creek para sa masusing pagsusuri.
Dagdag pa sa pahayag, sinabi ng kampo ni Baronda na tahimik ngunit tuluy-tuloy ang kanilang pakikipag-ugnayan sa national agencies gaya ng DPWH at ICDEO upang matiyak ang tamang implementasyon ng mga imprastruktura, at hindi umano sila sangkot sa pamumulitika.
Habang nagpapatuloy ang isyu, nananatiling sentro ng usapan ang kalagayan ng mga Ilonggo na apektado ng pagbaha.
Ayon kay Fantilaga-Gorzal, hindi ang tanong na “Sin-o ang mayor?” ang mahalaga, kundi “Sin-o ang magahimo sang aksyon para indi na kami magbaha?”
Jojo Ang, nagpasalamat sa bag-o nga posisyon kag nagpabutyag sang suporta sa mga programa ni PBBM
ang iya suporta sa mga programa sang administrasyon ni Presidente Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr., ilabi na ang mga inisyatibo nga naga-angut sa pagpaayo sang healthcare services, pagtukod sang sports facilities, kag pagsolbar sang backlog sa mga eskwelahan.
Ang, ginpahayag sini ang iya kalipay sa paghatag sang pagsalig sa iya bilang kabahin sang liderato sang Kongreso.
Suno sa iya, isa ini ka oportunidad agud makabulig siya sa pagpasanyug sang mga programa nga may direct nga epekto sa kabuhi sang pumuluyo.
Ginpunto ni Ang nga dapat siguruhon sang mga ahensya kag local government units nga ang mga proyekto nga ginapatuman may yara sang klaro nga plano, legal nga proseso, kag accountable nga pagpanguna.
Ginpasalig niya nga magapadayon siya sa aktibo nga pagbulig sa pagpanday sang mga polisiya kag pagmonitor sang implementasyon sang mga proyekto para sa kaayuhan sang mga pumuluyo sa iya distrito kag sa bilog nga pungsod.
Councilor Mabilog, dismayado sa iya mga kaalyado sa konseho tungod sa isyu sang ‘real property tax’
“Para sa akon, bulag kag bungol ang iban ko da nga upod,” ini ang nangin pahayag ni Iloilo City Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog sa iya pagkadismaya matapos siya liwat nga ginpulihan sang mayoriya sang konseho bangud wala gin-aprubahan ang iya ginaduso nga ordinansa sa pagpanubo sang 80% sa Real Property Tax.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Sheen Marie Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga para sa iya, daw bulag kag bungol ang pila niya ka-upod sa konseho sa kabudlay nga ginabatyag sang mga taxpayer sa syudad.
“Daw para sakon ang paghangop ko ni ya daw bungol kita ya kag bulag, sa suffering sang mga taxpayer naton, may-ara ga close businesses, may ara mga pensioners nga nagapalapit,” suno kay Mabilog.
Ginpahayag man ni Mabilog nga dismayado gid siya nga wala siya ginhatagan sang konsiderasyon sang konseho bisan pa may mga data siya nga ginpresentar.
“Bisan ano pa nga explanation ko sirado gid ya sila, nisan may data nga gin present,” dugang pa sang konsehal.
Ginpabutyag niya nga daw wala sang interes ang iban nga mangin bukas ang paminsaron kag magpamati sa sitwasyon sang pumuluyo.
“Ang importante, indi ko ya maghipos, kay may nakita ko ya nga indi mayo, kag indi ko ya nila mapahipos.
Gindugang ni Mabilog nga indi siya maguntat sa pagpangita pa sang paagi nga maprotektahan ang interes sang pumuluyo, kag padayon siya nga magatindog sa kung ano ang insakto kag para sa kayuhan sang tanan, kag indi siya mapahipos bisan pa ano pa ang opposition nga iya atubangon.
Baronda, nalipay sa suporta ni BBM sa health, sports kag disaster preparedness
Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga daku ang iya pagpanginbulahan sa pagbanggit ni Presidente Marcos sang pila ka prayoridad sang gobyerno nga kaangut sa mga proyekto nga iya man ginatukod sa Iloilo City.
Suno sa iya, nalipay gid siya sang gin-mention ang pagtukod sang evacuation centers, paghatag sang daku nga importansya sa sports development kag Palarong Pambansa, pagpabakod sang healthy lifestyle, kag pagpadayon sang suporta sa mga athletes.
Ginkalipay man niya ang plano sang gobyerno nga palaparon pa gid ang implementasyon sang Universal Health Care, expanded social services, kag programa sa agrikultura.
Suno kay Baronda, ini nga mga inisyatibo nagtupong sa iya mga ginsuguran sa syudad, lakip na ang natapos na nga Health Center kag ang padayon nga konstruksyon sang Cancer Center.
Ginpahayag man ni Baronda nga isa sa ginatutukan nila subong amo ang pagtukod sang tertiary hospital, pagprotektar sa palibot (environment), kag ang budget deliberation para masiguro nga magapadayon ang mga proyekto nga nasuguran.
Ginbuyagyag man niya nga personal siya nakig-istorya kay Presidente Marcos kag sa First Lady Liza Marcos, nga nagsiling nga “Yes, tatapusin natin ‘yan,” kabahin sa mga proyekto nga dapat matapos.
Natingala man si Baronda bangud wala nabanggit ang Panay-Guimaras-Negros Bridge sa SONA, apang suno sa iya, ginalantaw niya ini nga isa gihapon ka prayoridad sang administrasyon.
Gintamyaw man niya ang importansya sang transparency, nga suno sa iya kinahanglan sa tsakto nga programa kag serbisyo sang gobyerno.
Ginsiling pa ni Baronda nga bilang isa ka Deputy Majority Floor Leader, madamo na subong sang iya responsibilidad sa Kamara, apang nagapaninguha gihapon siya nga mapuli kada katapusan sang semana agud personal niya masaksi ang kahimtangan sang mga pumuluyo sa Iloilo City.
Lumabas sa survey na si Sotto, na nasa huling termino na bilang alkalde ng Pasig, ay may 61.0 percent voter preference, at nanguna sa lahat ng 17 rehiyon sa bansa.
Ayon sa Tangere, posible itong magresulta sa mahigit 30 milyong boto.
Sumunod kay Sotto si Senador Raffy Tulfo na may 55.26 percent, na malakas sa Metro Manila at kalapit na mga probinsya.
Pangatlo naman si dating Senadora Grace Poe na may 46.05 percent, suportado sa MIMAROPA at Central Luzon.
Statistically tied sa ika-apat hanggang ika-anim na pwesto sina Senate President Chiz Escudero, Senadora Loren Legarda, at Davao Rep.
Sonny Angara; at dating Makati Mayor Abby Binay.
Hindi naman nakapasok sa Top 15 sina Senadors JV Ejercito at Mark Villar.
Solterito nga gin-itik sang iya abyan sa suba, nalumos
Patay na sang nasapwan ang isa ka 15-anyos nga lalaki sa Mangaldan, Pangasinan matapos nagsarurot sa suba.
Ginpahayag nga nagauyat ini sa salsalon ng uluyatan sang taytay apang gin-itik ini sang iya upod gani nakabuya ini.
Sa imbestigasyon sang otoridad, nagahampang ang biktima kag iya mga abyan sang natabo ang insidente.
Bangud sa mabaskog nga daludo sang tubig, nangin mabudlay ang pagpangita sa biktima nga nagdugay sang apat ka oras bag-o nakita ang iya lawas.
Pasakaan naman sang kaso nga reckless imprudence resulting in homicide ang 18-anyos nga abyan niya nga nag-itik sa iya.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, tagpamaba ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang proyekto sang DPWH-ICDEO gin-implementar nga wala sang prior coordination sa lokal nga gobyerno, kabangdanan sang paglapas sa DPWH Department Order No.
Ginpunto man ni Gorzal nga ang mga proyekto pareho sang slope protection, bike lane kag access road nangin kabangdanan sang pagbaha, paguba sang propedad, kag may kaso sang kamatayon, lakip na ang 13-anyos nga bata nga nalunod sa Buntatala Creek.
Dugang pa, ginpahayag man ni Mayor Treñas nga nagkadto sa iya opisina si Mayor Sofronio Fusin sang Oton agud magpangayo sang bulig, matapos nakaeksperyensya sang pagbaha ang anum ka barangay sa ila banwa, nga wala pa natabu bisan sang bagyo Frank sang 2008.
Ginkilala naman sang DPWH Regional Office VI ang ini nga isyu, kag nagpasalig sila nga ila ini inspeksyonon.
Magapadayon ang Cease and Desist Order tubtob nga may siyentipiko kag independyente nga pagtuon nga magapakita nga luwas kag epektibo ang nasambit nga proyekto.
Nagpanawagan si Board Member Rolex Suplico sang 5th District nga indi paggamiton sa pulitika ang implementasyon sang Medical Assistance to Indigent and Financially Incapacitated Patients (MAIFIP), nga ginapundohan sang national government kag gin-aprubahan sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan sa ila 4th regular session.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Suplico nga ang MAIFIP may pondo nga nagalab-ot sa ₱39.5 milyon nga igaturn-over sa mga district hospitals.
Ini ang gamiton para ireimburse ang gasto sang Iloilo Provincial Government sa pagbulig sa mga pasyente nga indigent.
Apang suno kay Suplico, kulang pa ang detalyado nga guidelines sa programa, partikular na sa pagdeterminar kun sin-o gid ang kwalipikado nga matawag nga indigent.
Nabatyagan sini nga kinahanglan may klaro nga sistema, bangud sa mga nabatian niya sang nagligad nga eleksyon, kun sa diin ang aprubado lang kuno sang kapitan ukon congressman ang ginatugutan nga mabuligan.
Gintumbok man niya nga ginpamangkot niya mismo kun pwede bala siya mangin indigent kag ginsabat nga “pwede,” rason nga nangin duda siya sa objectivity sang sistema.
Ginpahayag pa niya nga dapat ang social worker sang ospital ang magahimo sang assessment, kag may proseso man para sa appeal kun indi ma-aprubahan ang isa ka pasyente.
Ginpanawagan ni Suplico nga sundon ang husto kag patas nga assessment agud masiguro nga ang bulig-medikal maglab-ot gid sa mga matuod nga nagakinahanglan kag indi malambutan sang pulitikal nga impluwensya.
Halin sa politika tubtob sa pribado nga kabuhi: Treñas may sabat sa mga isyu
Pagkatapos sang kapin apat ka dekada sa serbisyo publiko, naghatag sang panan-aw si anay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas kun paano siya subong sa pribado nga kabuhi kag sa padayon nga isyu sa lokal nga politika.
PRIVATE LIFE AFTER PUBLIC SERVICE Suno kay anay Mayor Treñas sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, mas nagahimakas siya subong sa personal nga oras.
Iya ginpakigbahin nga nasadyahan siya kag may tsansa na siya nga maka-upod niya ang mga suod nga abyan nga madugay na niya nga wala nakaupod, bisan sa simple nga pangape-kape.
Ginbunyag man sini nga may pila ka imbitasyon siya nga nabaton para magtudlo bilang professor sa Political Law.
May posibilidad man nga mabalik siya sa iya law office bilang corporate lawyer, kung sa diin naga-handle siya sang mga civil cases.
Ginpahayag niya nga kapin 40 ka tuig ang iya total nga serbisyo sa gobyerno kag subong, mas madamo na siya sang tulog.
ON RAISA TREÑAS AND POLITICAL OPPOSITION Ginpahayag man ni Treñas nga bisan bag-uhanon ang iya anak nga si Raisa sa politika, dugay na ini nga naga-upod sa iya sa mga buluhaton.
Ginpahayag niya nga si Raisa ang nagsilbi bilang iya Chief of Staff halin pa sang iya pagpungko bilang konsehal tubtob congressman.
Suno pa sa iya, natural na nga may oposisyon sa politika, kag sa 40 ka tuig niya nga serbisyo, lakip na ang kampo ni Congresswoman Jamjam Baronda, Vice Mayor Love Baronda, kag anay Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Gin-ako ni Treñas nga indi gid malikawan ang kritisismo sa politika kag dapat lang nga ginakabig ini nga bahin sang serbisyo.
CITY HALL SPACE ISSUE Ginpat-od man ni Treñas nga suno sa Local Government Code, may gahum ang alkalde sa pag-assign sang espasyo sa sulod sang City Hall para sa mga opisina sang LGU.
Ginpanugyan niya nga kinahanglan ang mga bag-o nga opisyales nga magsunod sa seminar nga ginasuporta sang DILG agud mas mangin epektibo sa ila papel.
FLOODING ISSUE Sa isyu sang pagbaha sa siyudad ilabi na sa Jaro.
Ginpunto sini nga indi si Raisa ang nagareklamo kundi ang mga pumuluyo mismo.
Suno kay Treñas, dapat tutukan sang DENR kag DPWH ang problema ilabi na kon apektado na ang seguridad sang publiko, kag may responsibilidad ang LGU nga magpasiguro ang ‘safety’ sang tanan.
REAL PROPERTY TAX Ginpahanumdom man ni Treñas nga sa panahon sang administrasyon ni President Duterte, ginsuguran ang implementasyon sang Mandanas Ruling nga naga-apekto sa real property tax kag iban pa nga revenue sharing sa mga LGU.
2028 COMEBACK POSSIBILITY Sa katapusan, ginbuyagyag ni anay Mayor Treñas nga posible siya magabalik sa politika sa 2028 nga eleksyon, apang subong nagakabuhi siya sing malinong kag pribado kaupod ang pamilya kag mga abyan.
Mayor Treñas, nagpanawagan sang koordinasyon, matapos ang isyu sa proyekto nga wala sang konsultasyon sa LGU
Nagpangabay sang klaro nga koordinasyon ang Iloilo City Local Government Unit (LGU) sa Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) matapos ginbuyagyag nga may proyekto ang ginpatuman nga wala sang konsultasyon sa lokal nga pamunuan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, tagpamaba ni Iloilo City Mayor Raisa Treñas, ginpahayag nga nagpakigsapul si Engr.
Joel Limpengco, Officer-in-Charge sang DPWH Region VI kay Mayor Treñas para istoryahan ang mga isyu nga ginbanggit sang anay alkalde nga si Jerry Treñas sa iya social media post.
Lakip sa ginpunto amo ang kakulangan sang koordinasyon sa mga proyekto sang Iloilo City District Engineering Office, nga halos tanan wala sang klaro nga kasugtanan sa LGU antes pa man magsugod.
Ginklaro sa sinapol nga dapat may koordinasyon gid ang DPWH sa lokal nga gobyerno antes magpatuman sang ano man nga proyekto, lakip na ang mga barangay kag stakeholders nga posible maapektuhan.
Ginmention man ni Gorzal nga ang bike lane/revetment wall project sa Jaro, nga ginpatuman ni Congresswoman Jamjam Baronda, ginausisa na subong kun may environmental compliance kag epekto sini sa pagbaha, kag nagpadala na sila sang sulat sa DENR para sini.
Baronda: session hall, kinahanglan nga matutukan ang kakulang sang espasyo
Ginkilala ni Iloilo City Vice Mayor Love Baronda ang kinahanglanon nga masolusyunan ang problema sa limitado nga espasyo sa sulod sang session hall, kasunod sang obserbasyon ni Councilor Rudolph Jeffrey Ganzon .
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni Baronda nga bilang presiding officer, iya man nakita ang kakulangan sa husto nga lugar para sa mga media personnel kag mga bisita, kag ginklaro nga wala man sang kagamo nga natabo, kundi kulang lang gid ang lugar para sa mga nagatindog sa kilid sang session hall.
Suno pa sa iya, indi man dako nga problema ini, apang dapat na nga matutukan agud masiguro nga may husto nga pulungkuan ang mga bisita kag media nga naga-cover sang session.
Ginpahayag man ni Baronda nga ila pagarebyuhon ang kahimtangan sa session hall, nga subong pa lang ikatatlo nga gingamit.
Councilor Ganzon ginkwestyon ang kakulangan sang espasyo sa session hall; ginpanawagan ang paghatag lugar sa media kag bisita
Ginpangabay ni Councilor Ganzon, nga hawanan ang Session Hall agud hatagan pagkilala ang mga bisita kag mapalapad ang espasyo para sa media kag staff.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Councilor Rudolph Jeffrey Ganzon, ginpahayag sini nga nangin kabahin siya sang pag-request nga hawanan anay ang Session Hall sang konseho bangud sang kadamuon sang bisita kag line-up sa agenda sang ila sesyon.
Suno kay Ganzon, importante nga mahatagan sang insakto nga pagkilala ang mga bisita, ilabi na ang media kag mga staff nga kis-a lang makakadto sa hall.
Nahambal man sini nga pagkatapos sang photo opportunity, pwede man makabalik sa ila pulungkuan ang mga bisita.
Dugang pa niya, kinahanglan man nga mangin convenient para sa tanan kag mahatagan sang lugar ang media team bangud limitado gid ang espasyo sa sulod.
Sa subong, nagapangita pa sila sang mas maayo nga paagi bangud tama kagamay sang Session Hall.
Ginpasa na sa Iloilo City Council ang resolusyon nga ginaduso ni Councilor Lyndon Acap nga naga-apelar kay ICPO Director Col.
Kim Legada nga magpatindog sang satellite office sang ICPS 6 sa Arevalo Plaza.
Ginpahayag ni Acap nga nangin kabakod sang iya resolusyon ang kabudlayan sa pagresponde sang mga kapulisan sa plaza area matapos nga ginbalhin ang Arevalo Police Station halin sa Brgy.
Suno sa konsehal, kinahanglan nga may presensya gihapon sang kapulisan sa mismo nga sentro sang distrito agud masiguro ang seguridad kag kalinong sa mga pumuluyo, negosyo, kag mga pasilidad nga ara sa palibot sang plaza.
Ginalauman nga pagatagan sang aksyon sang ICPO ang nasambit nga resolusyon sa pinakamadali nga panahon.
Kapitan sang Tagbak nagapangayo sang solusyon sa pagbaha: daku nga bulig kun padakuon ang creek
Ginpahayag ni Punong Barangay Mary Jane Jecara sang Brgy.
Tagbak, Jaro nga natural nga flood-prone area ang ila barangay, gani kada magmunog ang ulan amo man ang pagsaka sang tubig.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, gin-acknowledge man sang kapitan nga may bulig man ang ginpatukod nga revetment project ukon bike lane, bangud wala sang alagyan sa una sa amo nga parte.
Apang base sa ila obserbasyon, nagnubo ang kapasidad sang creek, rason nga mas dasig na subong magbaha.
Ginkilala man sini nga bisan sang una pa, may pagbaha na sa Tagbak, pero subong nangin ”alarming” na ang kahimtangan.
Ginapanawagan niya sa DPWH nga matagaan sang talupangod ang posibilidad nga padakuon ang creek agud malimitahan ang pagbaha sa lugar
JamJam Baronda, nagpanindugan sa isyu sang revetment wall/bike lane project
“Indi kita mamasol kung indi ka certain.” Liwat nga nagpanindugan si Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam Jam” Baronda sa isyu nga ginapangatubang sang proyekto sang DPWH, kasunod sang mga reklamo halin sa pila ka barangay officials sa Jaro, lakip na si Kapitan Mary Jane Jecara sang Brgy.
Suno sa iya, ang lugar flood-prone na bisan sang una pa, pero karon ginatudlo ang proyekto nga rason sang pagbaha.
Para kay Baronda, kun may problema, kinahanglan sang solusyon — indi dapat mamasul dayon, labi na kun wala sang kasiguruhan.
Ginklaro niya nga ang proyekto sang revetment wall/ bike lane may tinutuyo nga makabulig sa epekto sang climate change kag indi lang para sa pasilidad sang bikers.
Ang revetment wall, suno sa iya, gintukod agud protektahan batuk sa soil erosion.
Ginkwestyon man ni Baronda ang pahayag nga gintampukan ang creek para lang himuon nga bike lane kag ginpahanumdom niya nga mismo ang mga residente sang una ang nagapanawagan nga pahimuan sang bike lane sa lugar.
Ginbuyagyag man niya nga may drone footage halin sa DPWH nga nagpapakita nga may husto pa nga flow sang tubig sa area.
Dugang pa niya nga ang problema amo ang basura sa ‘vegetation’ nga nagtubo sa creek, nga posible nga nagaka-contribute sa pagbaha — ini, suno sa iya, dapat buligan sang tanan nga barangay officials.
Ginpaathag man ni Baronda nga indi pwede nga litrato lang ang basehan kag dayon ibasol ang proyekto.
Dapat, kun may nakita nga problema, i-report dayon sa DPWH antes pa man magsobra ang epekto.
Ginpasalig man niya nga may kumpiyansa siya sa expertise sang mga engineers sang DPWH Regional Office kag sang Iloilo City Engineering Office.
Wala siya naga-question sa kapasidad sang mga Ilonggo engineers.
Ginpahanumdom ni Baronda ang tanan nga lideres: antes magpagwa sang pahayag, siguruhon ang kamatuoran — kay sa ulihi, ang mga lider responsable sa katawhan.
Barangay kag SK Elections sa Disyembre 1, madayun; amended calendar ginpagwa na!
Gin-anunsyo sang Commission on Elections ukon COMELEC ang amended calendar of activities para sa Barangay kag Sangguniang Kabataan Elections nga pagahiwaton sa Disyembre 1, 2025.
Ginpahanumdom man sang COMELEC nga ginadumilian ang premature campaigning halin Oktubre 1 tubtob Nobyembre 19.
Ang election period kag ‘gun ban’ magasugod sa Oktubre 27 kag magapadayon tubtob Disyembre 31.
Ang official campaign period igapatuman halin Nobyembre 20 tubtob 29.
Sa Disyembre 30, ukon eve of election day, may ipatuman nga liquor ban kag prohibition sa campaigning.
Sa ELEKSYON DAY mismo sa Disyembre 1, maga-umpisa ang early voting para sa senior citizens, persons with disabilities kag mga mabusong nga kababainhan alas 5:00 tubtob alas 7:00 sang aga.
Ang regular voting hours magalawig halin alas 7:00 sang aga tubtob alas 3:00 sang hapon.
Ang katapusan nga adlaw sang pagpasa sang Statement of Contributions and Expenditures (SOCE) amo ang Disyembre 31, 2025.
Suno sa COMELEC, ang voter registration sa BARMM para lamang sa BSKE kag wala sang epekto sa final list of voter’s para sa BARMM Parliamentary Elections sa Oktubre 13, 2025.
Ang mga kwalipikado nga magaboto sa May 12, 2025, National and Local Elections, amo man ang makaboto sa BARMM Parliamentary Elections.
Baronda nagsabat sa pasibangud nga proyekto niya ang rason sang baha
Ginsabat ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne Jamjam Baronda ang pahayag ni Mayor Raisa Treñas nga posible ang isa sa mga rason sa pagbaha sa pila ka mga areas sa Jaro, amo ang proyekto sang kongresista.
Una diri, ginpahayag sang alkalde nga naglab-ot na sa tatlo ka tapak ang tubig sa mga lugar nga sadto, wala gid nagabaha kag isa sa ginatudlo sang mga residente nga balasulon amo ang mga proyekto nga ginapatuman ni Cong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Baronda, iya gin-athag nga madugay na nga may pagbaha sa amo nga mga lugar, indi lamang subong ini nagsugod kag indi man dapat iangot sa iya mga proyekto.
Suno pa kay Baronda, may pamatuod nga bisan sang wala pa siya sa pwesto, may kasaysayan na ang problema sa drainage system sa Lawaan kag kasilingan sini.
Ginpahayag man ni Baronda nga ang proyekto nga ginatudlo nga kabangdanan, kabahin sang iya pagpanikasog nga mangin sabat sa madugay na nga problema sang pumuluyo, apang subong, imbes pasalamatan, ginabasol pa.
Ginpangabay niya ang ‘pasensya’ sang publiko kag ginpasalig nga may klaro siya nga plano kag determinasyon nga tapuson ang problema nga wala natagaan solusyon sang pila na ka dekada.
Suno kay Baronda, may commitment siya nga matapos ang trabaho kag mahatagan sang permanente nga sabat ang mga apektado nga lugar.
Boundary system, commission basis, kag kakulang sa units, ginalantaw nga ugat sang overloading?
Kaangut sa ginapatuman sang LTO nga “Anti-Sardinas Policy”, nagpahayag si Iloilo City Councilor Atty.
Sedfrey Cabaluna, Chairman sang Committee on Transportation, nga isa sa mga nagapanguna nga rason sang overloading sa mga pampasahero nga salakyan amo ang kakulangan sang units sa karsada.
Suno kay Cabaluna sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, nagapadayon ang sistema sang “boundary” kag “commission basis” sa transport sector, rason kun ngaa ginatuyo sang iban nga mga driver nga pun-on ang ila salakyan agud mas daku ang ila kita.
Ginpunto man sang konsehal nga ang overloading indi lang isyu sang disiplina kundi may kaangtanan man sa economic conditions sang mga driver kag operators.
Bangud sini, ginpanawagan ni Cabaluna nga ang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) ang dapat magpatuman sang angay nga mga disiplinaryo nga tikang batok sa mga nagalapas sa kapasidad nga ginatugot sang layi.
Ginpanindugan niya nga kinahanglan may hugot nga monitoring kag enforcement nga maghalin mismo sa LTFRB agud masiguro ang kaluwasan kag ‘convenience’ sang mga pasahero.
Ginpaidalum liwat sa reorganisasyon ni Mayor Raisa S.
015 agud masiguro nga ang mga pasilidad sang syudad hilway sa ilegal nga koneksyon sang kuryente.
Suno kay Joy Fantilaga-Gorzal, tagpamaba ni Mayor Raisa S.
Treñas sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahanumdom niya nga ang kabangdanan sang pag-reconstitute sang task force amo ang sunod-sunod nga sunog nga ginapatihan nga ginhalinan sang mga ilegal nga koneksyon sa mga linya sang kuryente sa mga pasilidad sang syudad.
Ginpahanugutan sang EO ang Task Force nga mag-imbestiga, mag-disconnect sang illegal nga koneksyon, kag magpasaka sang kaso batok sa mga responsable, upod ang pagkoordinasyon sa City Legal Office kag MORE Power.
Ginaplano man sang EO nga ang tanan nga gasto sang Task Force Boltahe kuhaon sa Discretionary Fund sang Alkalde, kag magalakip ini sang communication equipment, overtime pay, kag mga gastos sa dokumentasyon sang operasyon.
Ginapasiguro man sang alkalde nga ang pagpahamtang liwat sang Task Force Boltahe isa ka determinado nga tikang agud protektahan ang seguridad sang publiko kag matapna ang paglapta sang ilegal nga koneksyon sang kuryente sa Iloilo City.
Mga kapitan sang barangay sa Iloilo City, nagahimo sang tikang kontra sa pagbalik sang ilegal nga droga
Ginapangunahan sang mga barangay kapitan sa Iloilo City ang ila nga mga tikang agud malikawan ang pagbalik sang ilegal nga druga sa mga kabarangayan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpahayag ni ABC President kag Punong Barangay Rodel Mamon sang Jaro District nga padayon ang ila monitoring system sa kada barangay, kag ginatukiban pa ang presensya sang mga minor de edad nga nadalahaig sang illegal nga aktibidad sa druga.
Ginapadayon man nila ang edukasyon kontra droga ilabi na sa kabataan bilang kabahin sang preventive efforts.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginpahibalo man ni Punong Barangay Welbor Orada sang Brgy.
Tanza Esperanza nga may separate community rehab program sila para sa mga users kag pushers, nga nagalawig tubtob anum (6) ka bulan.
‘Clean-up Day’ kada Sabado, ginmandu ni Mayor Raisa Treñas sa Iloilo City
Ginpaguwa ni Mayor Raisa Treñas ang Executive Order No.
018 nga naga-deklarar sang kada Sabado bilang Clean-Up Day sa bilog nga syudad sang Iloilo.
Ang ini nga inisyatibo magasugod sa Hulyo 12, 2025, halin alas 7:00 sang aga tubtob alas 11:00 sang udto, kag target sini nga tinluan ang mga drainage, stagnant nga tubig, basura, kag iban pa nga lugar nga posible puy-an sang lamok kag ilaga.
Ginpahayag sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantillaga-Gorzal, tagpamaba ni Mayor Treñas, nga ginpasulod ini nga tikang bilang kabahin sang preparasyon sa panahon sang tig-ululan kun sa diin nagataas ang risgo sang mga masakit pareho sang dengue, leptospirosis, kag iban pa nga dala sang lamok kag ilaga.
Ginapanawagan sang alkalde ang partisipasyon sang tanan nga Ilonggo sa ila tagsa ka panimalay kag komunidad, agud magbinuligay sa pagpanglimpyo sang palibot.
Ginasugid man nga ang mga barangay nga nagakinahanglan sang teknikal nga bulig ukon kagamitan, pwede magpadala sang sulat sa opisina sang alkalde agud mabuligan sang mga ahensya sang City Hall.
Luyag sang liderato ni Mayor Treñas nga mapabaskug ang kampanya para sa mas malimpyo, mayo nga ikaayong-lawas, kag malinong nga Iloilo City.
Ginpabutyag pa nga ang paglimpyo indi lang ubra sang gobyerno, kundi trabaho sang tanan nga pumuluyo sa syudad.
Desisyon sa impeachment kay VP Sara, dapat batunon sang mga Pilipino – Rep.
Lorenz “Noy” Defensor sang 3rd District sang Iloilo ang iya suporta nga padayunon ang impeachment kay VP Sara Duterte bilang pagtuman sa mandato sang Konstitusyon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo, ginpunto ni Defensor nga dapat paduyonon kag matabo ini sa 20th Congress kag ginapaabot nga padayunon ang trial bangud amo ini ang sugo sang Konstitusyon.
Suno sa iya dapat nga husgahan sang husto kag batunon sang mga Pilipino, kag sundon ang proseso sang impeachment bilang proteksyon sa pungsod.
Dugang pa niya nga kun malain nga tawo ang isa ka leader, dapat may trial, aquit man ukon convict, basta masunod ang layi kag konstitusyon.
Ginpahayag man ni Defensor nga indi siya kumbinsido sa desisyon sang Senado nga i-remand ukon ibalik sa Kongreso ang kaso.
Marcos, nag-insister liwat nga wala siya sang papel sa VP Sara impeachment trial
Sa iya podcast, nagpahayag si Marcos nga ini nga proceedings ang yara na sa tunga sang Kamara kag Senado.
Ginpamangkot ang punong ehekutibo sa iya nga komento sa ginaalegar nga delay sa trial, apang suno kay Marcos, trabaho ini sang Kongreso; kag siya bilang presidente ang masako sa isyu sa transportasyon, bugas, kag iban pa nga mga problema sang pungsod.
“Lahat ng impeachment process nasa lehislatura ‘yan.
Pahayag pa sini, wala man siya sang papel sa impeachment.
Pebrero sang gin-impeach si Sara sa Kamara bangud sa alegasyon sang kurapsyon kag bangud sa “kill order” sini batok kay Marcos, First Lady Liza Marcos, kag House Speaker Ferdinand Martin Romualdez.
May gin-cite naman nga technicalities sang yara na ini sa Senado, kag tubtub subong, wala na-umpisahan ang trial bisan nga ginpasumpa na ang senator-judges.
Una naman nga nagpanindugan si Marcos sa iya public statements nga indi niya luyag nga masipa sa posisyon ang second-highest official sang Pilipinas nga iya man anay running-mate sang 2022 elections.
Nagpanumpa na si Iloilo Fifth District Representative-elect Binky Tupas kasunod sang iya pagdaog sa 2025 elections.
Ginpatigayon ang oathtaking sa municipal gymnasium sa banwa sang Barotac Viejo, Hunyo 21.
Nadag-an ni Tupas ang 2025 polls paagi sa 144,169 votes kun sa diin ginlutos sini si Niel Junjun Tupas nga nakaangkon lamang sa 112,856 votes.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa labing-una nga babaye nga kongresista sang Quinto Distrito, iya ginpahayag nga lakip sa tutukan sang iya nga liderato amo ang character building kag values formation.
Ini agud nga malikawan ang pagsaka sang kaso sang Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) sa mga kabataan.
Suno kay Tupas, himuon ini sa pagbinuligay sang local government units, Department of Education (DepEd), kag iban pa nga mga tawo sa komunidad.
Magluwas diri, plano ni Tupas para sa Fifth District nga mapa-asenso ang turismo, mapadayon ang pagtutok sa mga kabarangayan, kag maka-obra sang ospital sa distrito nga gina-manage sang national government.
Dugang sini, mas maayo kun may yara sang airport sa distrito para mas madasig ang implementasyon sang tourism programs.
Daku naman ang papel sang iya bana nga si outgoing Congressman Raul “Boboy” Tupas bilang adviser sang congresswoman-elect.
Nielito “Doc Darl” Tupas nga naga-represent sang amo man nga distrito.
Nagtambong sa kahiwatan ang mayors, vice mayors, Liga ng mga Barangay officials, mga opisyal sang DepEd Iloilo, kag regional directors halin sa rehiyon.#
Mayor Treñas, nagalaum nga magbuyloganay ang iya anak nga si Raisa Treñas-Chu kag si VM-Elect Love love Baronda
Nagalaum si Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga magbuyloganay ang iya anak nga si Raisa Treñas-Chu kag si Vice Mayor-Elect Love love Baronda.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga bilang isa ka bise-alkalde na si Baronda, tion na agud nga mag-reconcile sa ngalan sang serbisyo.
Suno kay Treñas, kinahanglan nga maglab-otanay ang duha ka kamot agud nga maka-extend sang bulig sa isa kag isa.
Gin-athag man sini nga kon indi man magbaton ang kampo sang Baronda sa ginlaragway sini nga ‘friendship’ padayunon sa gihapon nila ang pag-alagad sa pumuluyo.
Dugang sang alkalde nga indi man mapilit kon indi pa handa ang ila kampo para sa tinutuyo sini.
Mayor Treñas, nagpasalamat sa tanan nga nagsuporta sa Team Uswag sang nagligad nga 2025 midterm election
Nagpasalamat Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas sa tanan nga nagsuporta sa Team Uswag sang nagligad nga May 12, 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang apisar sang pagkalutos ni Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon sa pagpapili sini liwat sa pagka-bise alkalde sang syudad, makit-an sa gihapon ang kakusog sang Team Uswag.
Suno sa alkalde, natapos na ang eleksyon kag tion na agud nga magtrabaho kag magserbisyo sa mga Ilonggo.
Nagalaum man ang natungdan nga mangin matalunsay ang trabaho sang iya anak nga si Mayor Elect Raisa Treñas kaupod ang mga konsehal lakip na si Vice Mayor Elect Love-love Baronda.
Dugang sini nga ini ang para sa kaayohan sang syudad kag indi ini matuman kon wala sang pagbinuligay sa isa kag isa.
Handa naman ang alkalde nga magbulig sa pagpasanyog sang syudad apisar pa nga wala na siya sa pwesto.
‘Pasasalamat sa pagbuhat sa aking pagkatao’ —Robin Padilla sa pagdala sang standee ni Duterte
Ginpakigbahin ni Senator Robin Padilla ang video sini samtang nagalakat sa The Hague, Netherlands kag samtang dala sini ang cardboard standee ni anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
“Ang taong ito ang nagbigay sa akin ng utos na mag-senador at ginawa niya akong senador sa pahintulot ng taongbayan.
Hindi pagsamba sa kanya bilang poon ang ginagawa kundi pasasalamat sa pagbuhat sa aking pagkatao nong ako ang nasa ilalim sa gulong ng buhay,” kabahin sang social media post sang senador.
Dugang sini, “ang pagbuhat ko sa larawan o ang pagpapakuha ko sa mga larawan ni Tatay digong ay tanda ng hindi paglimot sa taong ginamit ng Allah para akoy maging bagong tao.”
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, may post man si Padilla nga kaupod sini ang standee sang former president samtang nagapamahaw sa The Hague.
Sa una nga post, ang caption sini amo ang: “Good vibes lang.
Breakfast meeting kasama ang chairman ng Partido Demokratiko ng Pilipinas.”
Ini na ang ikaduha nga pagbalik ni Padilla sa The Hague matapos naaresto si Duterte sang Marso 11 bangud sa kaso nga crimes against humanity sa International Criminal Court.
Sang Marso, wala siya napasulod sa detention facility kun sa diin yara si Duterte, apang masami siya nagatinir sa guwa sang pasilidad agud ipakita ang iya suporta.
COMELEC, nagsugod na sa pagpanghanda para sa Dec 1 BSKE
Opisyal na nga nagsugod sang pagpanghanda para sa Barangay and Sangguniang Kabataan Elections (BSKE) ang Commission on Elections (Comelec) nga natalana sa Disyembre 1, 2025.
Ginpasalig ni Comelec Chairman George Erwin Garcia sa publiko nga sa palaabuton nga eleksyon nga makakita sang major improvements, nga giyahan sang mga leksyon nga natun-an sa mga nagligad nga electoral exercises.
Ginkumpirmar man ni Garcia nga madayon ang eleksyon sa Disyembre 1, 2025, magluwas lang kon magpasar sang kasuguan ang Kongreso nga i-suspender ini.
Ang mga pagpanghanda karon nagapadayon, nga ginamarkahan sang pagpirma sang isa ka Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) sa tunga sang mga nagapasakop nga mga ahensya kag mga stakeholders.
Dugang pa, ang voter registration period para sa BSKE magabukas liwat sa Hulyo 1 tubtob Hulyo 11, samtang ang pag-file sang Certificate of Candidacy (COC) ang natalana sa Oktubre 1 tubtob 7.
Ang opisyal nga election period ang magasugod sa Oktubre 27 tubtob Disyembre 31, kag ang campaign period ang natalana sa Nobyembre 20 tubtob 29, nga nagadul-ong sa adlaw sang eleksyon sa Disyembre 1.
Gin-ako sang Comelec nga ang BSKE magalakip sang ‘manual nga pag-isip sang boto,’ nga posible magtuga sang logistical challenges.
Iloilo City Councilors nga nagaserbi Committee Head apang magatapos na ang termino, pagatal-usan
Gin-ako ni Iloilo City Councilor Sedfrey Cabaluna nga wala wala pa nadiskusyonan sa konseho ang pagtal-os sa mga committee head sang city councilors nga maga-graduate na kasunod sang pagtakop sang ila nga termino.
Cabaluna, chairman sang Committee on Public Safety, iya ginpahayag nga sigurado nga antes ang Hunyo 30 kag mag-assume ang next term, may mga magapungko na sa mabakante nga committee head nga posisyon.
Suno sa natungdan, nagadependi sa gihapon sa mayorya ang mangin resulta sang pagsinapol.
Ginpahayag man sini nga madamo pa sang balasahon agud nga matumod ang mga masunod nga head sang tagsa ka komitiba bangud may mga yara man nga luyag na buy-an ang amo nga posisyon.
Bukas naman si Cabaluna nga makatrabaho kaupod ang bag-o nga Bise-alkalde nga si Incoming Iloilo City Vice Mayor Love-love Baronda.
Chel Diokno, nakatalana mag-upod sa impeachment trial kay VP Sara Duterte
Nakatalana nga mag-upod si Congresswoman-elect Leila de Lima kag human rights lawyer Chel Diokno sa prosecution panel sang House of Representatives sa palaabuton nga impeachment trial kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ginkumpirmar ni De Lima, nga karon ang una nga nominado sang Mamamayang Liberal (ML) party-list, sang Miyerkules nga ginbaton niya ang imbitasyon ni House Speaker Martin Romualdez nga magpasakop sa high-profile legal proceedings.
Ginkumpirmar man ni Diokno ang iya partisipasyon sa prosecution panel.
Sa pahayag nga ginpagwa sang Akbayan sadtong Mayo 14, nagdeklarar ang partido.
Joenar Pueblo, Bombo Abogado, iya ginpahayag nga ang Senado ginalauman nga magatipon bilang isa ka impeachment court sa indi madugay pagkatapos nga ang Kongreso magbalik sa sesyon sa Hunyo 2, 2025.
Suno kay Pueblo, ang two-thirds nga mayorya kinahanglanon para sa isa ka conviction.
Agod malikawan ang pagpahalin sa office—kag mapadayon ang paglaum para sa presidential bid—dapat makakuha si Duterte sang indi magkubos sa siyam ka boto sa Senado.
Nahibaluan nga si Vice President Duterte ang gin-impeach sang Kamara sang Pebrero bangud sa gina-alegar “high crimes,” lakip na ang gina-alegar nga pag-intra sa isa ka plano sa pagpatay nga nagapuntirya kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
COC canvassing para saparty-list groups, natapos na
Ginpaguwa sang National Board of Canvassers (NBOC) ang final national canvass report sa percentage nga nakuha sang mga party-list groups.
Ang top 15 nga grupo nga nagpangibabaw sa 2025 elections amo ang masunod:
Ang grupo nga nakakuha sang dos porsyento sang total votes sa party-list ang guaranteed sang isa sa 63 reserved seats sa party-list.
Suno kay Comelec Chairman George Garcia, magasunod lang ugaling ang distribution and allocation sang seats para sa sini nga mga grupo.
Sa Mayo 19 naman natalana ang proklamasyon sang mga nagdaog, samtang buwas sa hapon naman ang iya sang winning senators.
Nahibaluan nga nakumpleto sang NBOC ang canvassing sa 175 COCs sa sulod lamang sang tatlo ka adlaw — 58 COCs sang Martes, 101 COCs sang Myerkules, kag 16 COCs sang Huwebes.
Proklamasyon sa ‘Magic 12’ senators, buwas na suno sa Comelec
Nakumpleto sang National Board of Canvassers (NBOC) ang tally sang election results tatlo ka adlaw matapos ang May 12 midterm elections.
Suno kay Commission on Elections (Comelec) Chairman George Garcia, natalana na nga iproklamar ang mga nagdaog nga senador buwas sa hapon, Mayo 17.
Nagapang-13 naman si Ben Tulfo nga may 12,090,090; nagasunod si Bong Revilla nga may 12,027,845; kag si Abby Binay nga may 11,808,645.
Apisar gin-release na ang boto kag rankings, ginklaro nga indi pa ini pinal kag subject pa sa auditing nga natalana nga himuon subong nga adlaw, Mayo 16.
Comelec, ginsugo si Quiboloy nga mag-file sang election protest kun luyag sini ang manual recount
Ginpaathag sang Commission on Elections (Comelec) nga ang election protest lamang ang paagi agud nga makahingyo sang manual recount kasunod sang resulta sang eleksyon.
Sabat ini ni Comelec spokesperson Rex Laudiangco kasunod sang panawagan ni detained senatorial candidate kag religious leader Apollo Quiboloy nga isipon liwat ang boto.
Suno kay Laudiangco nga isa man ka abogado, nagakatabo lamang ang manual recount kun una, may yara sang random manual audit (RMA) kag ikaduha, kun may na-file nga protesta sa poll body.
Nahibaluan nga naumpisahan na ang ginatumod sini nga RMA nga nakasaad gid sa layi partikular sa Republic Act 9369 ukon sa Election Automation Law.
Suno kay Laudiangco, dapat man nga maghatag ang petitioner sang basehan kun ngaa buksan liwat ang mga balota.
Dapat man nga i-identify sang petitioner ang pilot precincts nga magasuporta sa iya claim nga may iregularidad sa pag-isip sang balota.
Kun mapaslawan ang petitioner nga mapamatud-an ini sa pilot precincts, mahimo ini magresulta sa pagbasura sa election protest.
Base sa abogado ni Quiboloy nga si Israelito Torreon, may mga report sang overvoting, inconsistencies sa ballot readings, kag iban pa nga electoral irregularities rason nga nagapanawagan ang pastor sang manual recount sa senatorial votes.
Sa latest partial unofficial tally sa Comelec media server, nagapang-31 si Quiboloy sa 66 senatorial candidates nga nakatipon sang 5.579 million votes.#
FPRRD, nalipay gid matapos na-eleher bilang Davao mayor —utod nga si Bong Duterte
Nalipay si former President Rodrigo Duterte sang nahibaluan sini nga nagdaog siya sa iya pagpadalagan bilang alkalde sa Davao City.
Suno ini sa iya utod nga si Bong Duterte nga nagbisita sa anay punong ehekutibo sa detention facility sa The Hague, Netherlands.
Pahayag pa sang manghod sini, maayo ang kondisyon sang former president, kag nagapasalamat ini sa iya nga supporters lakip na ang mga yara sa The Hague nga nagatipon para sa iya.
“From the bottom of his heart talagang nagpapasalamat siya sa mga sumuporta sa kanya not only sa park, world wide.”
Matandaan nga opisyal na nga ginproklamar sang Davao election board nga nagdaog si Duterte sa mayoral race nga nakakuha sang masobra 660,000 ka mga boto sa iya hometown.
Bangud didto siya naka-detain sa Netherlands, ginalauman nga ang iya bata nga si incumbent Sebastian “Baste” Duterte amo man gihapon ang magapungko nga mayor bangud siya ang na-eleher nga bise-alcalde.
Marso 11 sang gindakop si Duterte sa gahum sang arrest warrant sang International Criminal Court (ICC) bangud sa ginaalegar nga crimes against humanity.
Maga-upod ang opposition figures nga sanday Leila de Lima kag Chel Diokno sa prosecution panel sang Kamara sa impeachment trial ni Vice President Sara Duterte kasunod sang imbitasyon halin mismo kay House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
Suno sa house speaker, kilala ang duha sa pinakalagting nga mga indibidwal sa legal nga propesyon, kag ang ila nga pagkalakip sa prosekusyon ang makadugang sang kredibilidad kag balanse.
Lunsay naman nagpaguwa sang statement ang kampo nanday Congresswoman-elect De Lima kag Congressman-elect Diokno nga ginabaton nila ang tanyag ni Romualdez.
Suno kay De Lima nga kilala sa pagpakigbato para sa tawhanon nga kinamatarong, nagapanindugan siya para sa kamatuoran kag para mapasabat ang may salabton, kag magapabilin ini nga commitment bisan ano man ang political affiliation.
Nahibaluan nga si De Lima amo ang first nominee sang Mamamayang Liberal (ML) nga ginalantaw nga makakuha sang isa ka pwesto sa Kongreso.
Nagpaguwa naman sang statement ang Akbayan partylist nga bug-os nga ila suporta sa ila first nominee nga si Diokno nga mangin kabahin sang panel.
Ang Akbayan naman amo ang una nga grupo sa party-list race subong nga eleksyon.
Natabo ang pag-imbitar kanday De Lima kag Diokno matapos nga wala nagdaog sa ila reelection bid ang duha sa 11 kag House prosecutors nga una na nga ginpakilala sang Kamara sang Pebrero.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Third District Rep.
Lorenz Defensor nga myembro man sang prosecution team, iya ginpahayag nga daku nga kadulaan sa team sanday Bongalon kag Acharon, apang kumpyansa man siya sa abilidad nanday De Lima kag Diokno.
“Sila ay mahuhusay na litigators, at kung willing silang tumulong sa impeachment, makakatulong sila sa pagpresenta nang maayos ng aming mga ebidensya,” suno kay Defensor.
Suno pa sa iya, ang pinaka-importante amo nga mabatian sang mga Pilipino ang kaundan sang ebidensya sang prosecution amo man ang depensa sang bise-presidente.
Importante man suno sa iya nga mabaton ang desisyon sang senator-judges.
Hulyo 30 ginalauman nga maga-umpisa ang impeachment trial batok kay Duterte sa senado kasunod sang opisyal nga mga preparasyon sa pagbalik sang session sa Kongreso sa Hunyo 2.
Noy Defensor, bukas sa pagpadalagan bilang gobernador ukon senador sa sunod nga eleksyon
Lorenz Defensor sa pagpadalagan sa pagka-gobernador ukon bisan sa pagka-senador sa masunod nga eleksyon.
Kasunod ini sang iya kadalag-an sa 2025 polls kun sa diin nagpabilin ini sa pwesto matapos nakakuha sang 194,791 votes — daku nga abanse sa iya kasumpong nga si Thelma Langusta nga may yara lamang sang 2,679 ka mga boto.
Bangud ini na ang iya ikatatlo kag katapusan nga termino bilang mamalidha, nagpahayag ang kongresista nga mas paayuhon pa sini ang iya serbisyo sa third district.
“Sa 2028, manami man kun makapadayon ako sa pagserbisyo sa mga Ilonggo sa iban nga paagi, kag bukas gid ako nga ma-prioritize ang development sang probinsya sang Iloilo,” suno kay Defensor sa interview sang Bombo Radyo.
Sa partikular nga pamangkot kun handa ini nga buslan ang iya magulang nga si reelected Governor Arthur ‘Toto’ Defensor, Jr., nagsabat ang manghod nga malayo pa ang 2028 apang wala niya ginadula ini nga posibilidad.
“Bukas kita sa tanan nga options subong.
Sa national level, wala kita nakahibalo sang hulag, apang ginabuksan ko ang lawas ko sa tanan nga options para sa ikaayo sang mga Ilonggo,” pahayag sini.
Antes pa man ang 2025 elections, may mga naga-mensyonar naman sang pangalan sang kongresista bilang posible nga material sa senatorial race.
“Kun indi ka artista, komedyante, ukon action star, or incumbent senator, dapat may magpili anay sa imo nga mangin parte ka sang lineup [sa senatorial race], kay kun indi ka man lang pagpilion, indi na naton pag-usikan sang tyempo ang national nga eleksyon,” pahayag sini.
Gindugang sini nga wala man sang malain nga magsaot kag magkanta, apang nagalaum siya nga kun magpungko na ang mga indibidwal sa Senado, nahangpan man nila ang obligasyon sa legislation.
Martes, Mayo 13, sang nagpatigayon ang Provincial Board of Canvassers sang proclamation sang winners sa 2025 elections sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Iloilo City Mayor elect Raisa Treñas, luyag makig-istorya kay Vice Mayor elect Love-love Baronda
Ginplastar ni Iloilo City Mayor elect Raisa Treñas ang tinutuyo sini para sa syudad kasunod sang iya kadalag-an sa 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga kon nagdaog si Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon, dako kontani ang mabulig sini sa iya kag bisan sa syudad.
Suno kay Treñas, padayon nga suportahan sang city government ang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) sa pagpangampanya batok sa iligal nga druga.
Hatagan man sang administrasyon sang prayoridad ang Iloilo City College.
Ginpahayag man sini nga tion naman agud nga ang mga babaye ang magpakita sa ila ikasarang sa patag sang pagdumala sang syudad.
Handa man ang alkalde nga mag-reach out sa Team Baronda agud magsapol para sa mangin plano para sa Iloilo City.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas kay Treñas, na-reelect man si Iloilo City Lone District Representative Jam-Jam Baronda samtang ang iya utod nga si Love-love Baronda ang magapungko man bilang bise-alcalde sang Iloilo City.
Pag-ulan, ginalauman sa adlaw sang eleksyon buwas nga adlaw, Mayo 12
Lauman ang pag-ulan sa adlaw sang eleksyon suno sa Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) subong nga Domingo sang hapon.
Suno sa weather forecast, magapadayon ang epekto sang frontal system kag easterlies nga magadala sang pag-ulan sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang pungsod.
Ang Batanes kag Babuyan Islands ang maka-eksperyensya sang magal-umon nga kalangitan kag lapta- lapta nga pag-ulan nga may dala nga thunderstorms; nga posible tunaan sang flash floods ukon landslides.
Samtang ang Metro Manila kag nabilin nga bahin sang pungsod ang maka-eksperyensya sang medyo magal-umon tubtob magal-umon nga kalangitan nga may panalagsahon nga pag-ulan.
Sa extreme northern Luzon, mabatyagan ang kasarangan nga mabaskog nga hangin kag kasarangan tubtob mabalod nga kadagatan ang mabatyagan sa extreme northern Luzon.
Sa nabilin nga bahin sang Luzon, Visayas, kag Mindanao, may mahina tubtob kasarangan nga hangin kag medyo nga pagbalud sa kadagatan.
‘Seek the common good, magpamati sa konsensya’—pahanumdom ni Msgr.
Sa bisperas sang national and local elections, nagpahanumdom si Msgr.
Meliton Oso, director sang Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center, sa mga botante nga magpamati sa konsensya kag panumduman gid sang maayo kun sin-o ang pilion nga kandidato.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Oso kasunod sang Holy Mass sa Jaro Metropolitan Cathedral, ginpahayag sini nga dapat nga ilugon ang ginhimo sang cardinal electors sang ginpili si Pope Leo XIV sang nagligad nga adlaw bilang bag-o nga lider sang Simbahang Katolika.
Suno kay Oso, nagtipon ang mga cardinal, nag-discern, nag-assess, nagpangita sang common good, kag nagpamati gid sa Espiritu Santo.
Dugang pa ni Oso nga amo man ang Iloilo Chairman sang Parish Pastoral Council for Responsible Voting, dapat nga indi gid magbaligya ang mga pumuluyo sang ila nga mga boto.
Apang pananglitan nga nakabaton na suno kay Oso, dapat nga magbawi kag magpamati sa konsensya antes magkadto sa polling center agud nga magboto.
“Nag-timing gid nga ginasaulog naton ang Good Shepherd Sunday.
Ang Shepherd, [sandig] sa Bibliya, ginagamit sa tanan nga lider — sa simbahan man o sa public service.
Gani buwas, kun magkadto kita sa mga presinto, magapili kita sang aton nga Shepherd.
Kabay nga ilugon naton ang mga Cardinal nga nag-discern, nag-assess, nagpangita sang common good.
‘Hindi po ba siya ang problema ng bansa?’ —Malacañang sa mga pahayag ni Sara vs Marcos
Ginsabat sang Malacañang ang mga pagpang-atake ni Vice President Sara Duterte batok kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kadungan sang Miting de Avance sang senatorial candidates sang PDP-Laban.
Lakip sa napang-mensyonar ni Sara sa iya speech amo ang kunsekwensya sang pagpili sang sala nga lider para sa pungsod.
Pahayag ni Sara, nag-eleher ang Pilipinas sang tawo nga indi makahangop sang adlaw-adlaw nga pangabuhi sang mga Pilipino kag indi man makasarang sa paghimo sang desisyon para sa ikaayo sang mga pumuluyo.
“Pinagbabayaran natin ngayon ang pagpili ng maling lider,” suno kay Sara.
Sabat naman ni Palace Press Officer Claire Castro, daw kaangay nga ang ginatumod ni Sara nga sala nga lider amo man ang iya kaugalingon kag ang iya pamilya.
Partikular nga gintudlo ni Castro ang tion nga nangin tiglikom si Sara sang DepEd kun sa diin 1.5 million DepEd laptops ang ginpangtago sa warehouses halin sang 2020.
Suno sa undersecretary, wala man gihapon napangitaan sang paagi ni Sara ang amo nga problema sang siya ang secretary.
Pahayag pa ni Castro, sang si Sara ang yara sa DepEd, P5.7 billion ang napan-os nga gatas kag halos napan-os naman ang mga Nutribun nga nabenepisyuhan pa kuntani sang public school students kun napanagtag.
“So, at that time, nakikita natin kung papaano nga ba napabayaan ang education sector dahil 1.5 million DepEd laptops stuck in warehouses since 2020 at hindi pa niya ito nagawan ng paraan bilang namumuno sa DepEd noon,” suno sa opisyal.
“At mayroon din pong nabisto or agarang nasolusyunan ni Education Secretary Sonny Angara patungkol po doon sa ghost students na may halaga pong na-recover na P65 million,” pahayag pa niya.
“So, hindi po ba siya ang problema ng bansa o isa sa mga problema ng bansa?”
Ginsekyar sang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) ang 417 boxes sang official ballots para sa 417 ka mga clustered precincts sa Iloilo City.
Ini bilang preparasyon man sa palaabuton nga May 12, 2025 midterm elections.
Pinky Jevini Tentativa, Election Officer sang Iloilo City Commission on Elections, iya ginpahayag nga ‘las-8:36 kaina sang aga, nagpatuman na ang talatapan sang deployment sang mga automated counting machines (ACM) sa syudad.
Suno kay Tentiva, gin-deliver ang machines sa 66 ka voting centers sa Iloilo City para sa 330,621 ka mga registered voters.
Gintuad man sini nga nauna dulong ang ACM sa Distrito sang Arevalo, ginsundan sang Molo, Lapuz, La Paz, Mandurriao, kag Jaro.
Ipatuman naman buwas nga adlaw ang synchronize final testing and sealing sang machines.
Matapos ang amo nga tikang, i-seal na ang mga ACM kag indi na ini mahimo mabuksan tubtob sa adlaw sang eleksyon.
Ipahamtang naman ini sa mga storage facilities sang voting centers lakip na sa mga mall.
Pagabantayan naman automated counting machines sang katapo sang Philippine National Police (PNP).
Imbitaron si Vice President Sara Duterte nga magtambong sa ikaapat nga State of the Nation Address (SONA) ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Suno kay House Secretary General Reginald Velasco, ipadala nila ang invitation letter sa opisina sang bise-presidente apisar nga naglain na ang relasyon nanday Sara kag Marcos nga runningmates anay sang 2022 elections.
Suno kay Velasco, ginapreparahan nila ang tanan nga posibilidad lakip na pananglitan magtambong si Duterte.
May yara sang protocol para sa seating arrangement suno sa opisyal gani lauman nga yara ang bise sa VIP section sa tunga sang hall.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga tuig, wala nagtambong si Sara.
Sang Pebrero, gin-impeach siya sang Kamara kun sa diin nalakip sa ginbasehan amo ang iya pamahog nga kun may magpatay sa iya, may ginsugo naman siya agud patyon ang presidente, ang first lady, kag ang House Speaker.
Umpisahan sang Senado ang impeachment trial kay Sara kun matapos na ang SONA sang presidente.
COMELEC Iloilo, ginpasiguro nga na-deliver sang kumpleto ang mga balota sa probinsya
Ginpasiguro sang Iloilo Provincial Commission on Elections (COMELEC) nga ma-deliver nga kumpleto ang mga balota sa tagsa ka banwa para sa 2025 midterm elections.
Renier Layson, Provincial Election Supervisor IV sang COMELEC Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga sa subong, reklamo sa pangampanya ang ila nabaton halin sa tagsa ka mga banwa.
Lakip na diri ang mga kandidato nga may tuyo magpasaka sang reklamo kaangot sa illegal campaigning.
Suno kay Layson, ginatudloan man nila ang mga kandidato kon paano magpasaka sang legal nga panumbungon agud nga makaagi sa insakto nga proseso.
Sa pihak sini, handa na ang talatapan sa palaabuton nga eleksyon kon sa diin, matalunsay nga ginasunod ang timeline.
Ginpahayag man sini nga yara na subong sa municipal treasurer’s office sang tagsa ka kabanwahanan sa probinsya ang official ballots nga gamiton sa piniliay.
COMELEC Region 6, mapatigayon sang final testing and sealing sang Automated Counting Machine (ACM) sa Mayo 7, 2025
Magapatigayon sang final testing and sealing sang Automated Counting Machine (ACM) ang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Region 6 sa masunod nga semana.
Dennis Ausan, Regional Director sang Commission on Elections Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga partikular nga hiwaton ang amo nga aktibidad sa Mayo 7, 2025, kon sa diin, preparado naman ang talatapan.
Sa amo nga tion, tsekyaron ang function sang machine, matabo ang daw kaangay sa mock election, kon sa diin, limitado tubtob sa pulo ka botante sa tagsa ka polling precinct.
Suno kay Ausan, all set na ang preparasyon kag on-track sa schedule, ongoing man ang deployement sang election paraphernalia, official ballot, kag indelible ink.
Na-deliver naman sa Roxas, Kalibo, Iloilo, kag Guimaras ang nasambit nga machine.
Nagpanawagan man ang talatapan sa publiko nga magpakigbahin sa amo nga aktibidad agud makahibalo sa himuon sa tion sang eleksyon.
Iloilo City COMELEC, wala pa sang may nabaton nga election related complaints inadlaw antes ang eleksyon
Nagapabilin nga ‘zero complaint’ ukon wala pa sang may nabaton nga election related complaints ang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) inadlaw antes ang 2025 midterm elections.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga nagalaum siya nga tubtob sa kataposan sang 2025 midterm elections, wala sang may mabaton nga election related complaints ang talatapan.
Suno kay Sayno, ang masami nga mabatian kag makit-an sa social media nga reklamo sa mga kandidato ang nagapabilin lamang nga yara sa social media bangud wala man sang pormal nga nagareklamo diri.
Gin-athag man sini nga may mga social media pages ang pila ka kandidato sa syudad nga wala nakakumpleto sang ila requirements apang ginhatagan sang tsansa nga makapasa, kon sa diin, natigayon man nga na-comply.
Masobra 6,000 ka mga Persons Deprived of Liberty (PDL) sa Western Visayas ang magaboto sa palaabuton nga 2025 midterm elections.
Juniven Rey Umadhay, spokesperson sang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga ang pagboto ang may ‘specific special precinct’ nga maga-akomodar sa mga rehistrado nga preso.
Suno kay Umadhay, masobra 60% ang registered voters sang PDL subong sa rehiyon ang magapartisipar sa piniliay.
Gintuad man sini nga may yara na sila nga ginpaguwa nga mga pagsulundan agud nga ma-eksplekar sa mga preso kag mapatuman sa tion sang eleksyon.
Sa kabug-usan, may yara sang 6,561 ka mga mga preso ang maga-cast sang ila nga boto.
Relief order ni IPPO Director Bayani Razalan, ginaalegar bangud sa natabo nga AKAP payout sa Maasin, Passi City
Wala ginadula ang mga espekulasyon nga gin-relieve sa pwesto si Police Colonel Bayani Razalan bilang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO) Director kaangot sa natabo nga payout sa 4th District sang Iloilo.
Sa amo man nga tion, ginapahayag nga involve diri ang isa ka incumbent congressman sa amo nga Distrito.
Santo sa impormasyon nga nakuha sang Bombo Radyo, Abril 14, 2025 sang may ginpatigayon nga caucus sa Brgy.
Maasin, Passi City kag sa amo nga tion may ginapatigayon man nga payout sang Ayuda sa Kapos ang Kita Program (AKAP) sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
Ang personnel sang DSWD ang nagmandu nga indi pag-umpisahan ang payout samtang yara pa ang presensya sang mga pulitiko rason man nga na-delay ini.
Didto na kag nagsugod ang pagkakibot sang punong barangay sang nasambit nga lugar.
Sa amo nga tion, yara naman ang presensya sang pila ka pulis kag Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) Personnel kon sa diin, ginkumpirma man nga nag-agi lang kag parte lamang ini sang integrated plan sang IPPO.
Gin-athag naman sang kapulisan nga normal lamang nga ginasundan nila ang amo nga kahiwatan ukon payout ilabi na nga may involve nga kwarta.
Posible naman nga ini ang ginlantaw sang Camp Crame nga rason ukon nakalab-ot nga istorya sa ila nga bahin, nga nangin rason man sang ila nga desisyon batok kay Razalan.
Sa pagpakig-angot sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Lieutenant Colonel Arnel Solis, spokesperson sang Police Regional Office 6, iya ginpahayag nga last week sang nagpadala sila sang sulat sa Commission on Elections (COMELEC) agud hibaluon ang sitwasyon sang relief order ni Razalan.
Apang, tubtob subong wala pa sang reply ukon confirmation ang COMELEC kaangot sa relieve order, rason nga magapabilin sa gihapon nga director sang IPPO si Razalan.
Una na nga gintuad sang COMELEC nga temporaryo nga magatal-us kay Razalan si Colonel Rolando Bulalacao, ang chief regional staff sang PRO 6.
Arthur Defensor, Jr., ginlaragway nga nag-perform sang maayo si IPPO Director PCOL Bayani Razalan antes pa man ini na-relieve sa pwesto
nga nagaperform sang maayo si Police Colonel Bayani Razalan bilang Iloilo Police Provincial Office (IPPO) Director sugod sang nagpungko ini sang 2024.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Governor Defensor, iya ginkatingala ang gulpyada nga pag-relieve sa nasambit nga pulis.
Gin-athag man sini nga nga ginarespeto niya ang nangin administrative order sang amo nga ahensya.
Nagalaum man si Defensor nga kontani nga makaistorya siya kay Philippine National Police (PNP) chief General Rommel Marbil agud mahibaluan sini ang rason sang relieve order ni Razalan.
Gin-ako man sang gobernador nga wala sang ‘prior consultation’ sa iya ang amo nga tikang apang ginklaro man niya nga indi man gid ini kinahanglanon.
Suno kay Defensor, kon lantawon, isa ang IPPO sa may pinakamadamo nga nadagdag nga warrant of arrest sa bug-os nga pungsod.
Former Mayor Eugene Reyes, ginpanginwala nga siya ang rason sang pagmahal sang services sa Buenavista Wharf
Ginpanginwala ni Former Buenavista, Guimaras Mayor Eugene Reyes nga siya ang rason kon ngaa nagmahal ang mga services sa Buenavista Wharf.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Reyes, iya ginpahayag nga sa siyam ka tuig niya nga pagpangalagad bilang alkalde sang nasambit nga banwa, wala nagsulod sa iya paminsaron nga i-turnover ang wharf sa Philippine Ports Authority.
Suno pa sa iya, na-turnover ang pantalan sa tyempo karon ni Mayor Samuel Gumarin, tatlo ka bulan sang nagsugod ini pungko bilang alkalde sang 2022.
Dugang pa ni Reyes nga nagpasar sang resolusyon ang Sangguniang Bayan sang Buenavista paagi kay Vice Mayor Cyril Beltran agud i-turnover sa Philippine Ports Authority ang pantalan.
Ini man ang nangin rason kon ngaa nagtaas ang mga pagpanukot sa mga nagasulod sa pantalan.
Gin-athag man sini nga isa ini karon sa mga gina-ugtom sang mga Taga-Buenavista ilabi na sa mga nagagamit sang wharf.
Uswag Ilonggo Partylist, nakuha ang suporta sang mga matag-as nga opisyal sang syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo
Nakakuha sang suporta ang Uswag Ilonggo Partylist halin sa mga matag-as nga opisyal sang syudad sang Iloilo kag probinsya sang Iloilo samtang nagatinguha ini nga makakuha sang pwesto sa Kongreso.
nga kinahanglan sang Iloilo ang dugang nga representasyon sa Kamara.
Samtang, duha lang ka incumbent congressman gikan sa probinsya nga sanday 3rd district Rep.
Michael Gorriceta ang nagtambong sa grand tally agud magpabutyag sang suporta sa Iloilo-based partylist.
Nahibaluan nga si Representative Jojo Ang Jr.
ang nagapabilin nga una nga nominado sang Uswag Ilonggo para sa May 2025 midterm elections.
COMELEC, magapatuman sang nationwide two-day money ban para sa May 12 Election
Magapatuman ang Commission on Elections sang nationwide two-day money ban sa diin ginadumilian ang pagdala ukon pag-transport sang masobra P500,000 nga cash ukon sa foreign currency equivalent sini.
Ang money ban ang mangin epektibo sang Mayo 11 kag magapadayon tubtob sa adlaw sang eleksyon sa Mayo 12 sandig sa Section 28 sang Comelec Resolution No.
Sakop sini ang cash nga may upod nga campaign paraphernalia ukon materyales nga magaserbe bilang ebidensya sang electoral offenses.
Layson, ang money ban ang nagaserbe “tool” agud mabuligan ang Comelec nga ma-identify ang mga paghulag sang kwarta sa tion sang election period nga mahimo indicator sang vote-buying activities.
Makabulig man ini pahayag niya nga makahimo sang baseline sang impormasyon sa pag-imbestiga sang ginadudahan nga financial behavior.
May yara man sang exceptions sa money ban kaangay na lang sang mga cashiers ukon disbursing officers nga naga-transport sang cash bilang kabahin sang ila trabaho apang dapat may yara sila sang ipalita nga certificate of employment kag identification card nga nagapakita sang ila pangalan, laragway, designation kag pirma.
Nagpaandam man ang Comelec sa unusual nga mga financial transactions sa election period lakip na ang pag-withdraw sang dako nga balor sang cash, digital wallet transfers ukon pagpabaylo sang check nga nagalapaw sa P500,000 nga wala sang maathag nga economic justification ang makabig nga suspicious kag mahimo i-angot sa vote-buying ukon vote-selling.
Ang ini nga transaksyon ang sandig sa Section 29 sang nasambit nga resolution.
May yara man sang gahom ang Comelec nga imbestigaran ang mga financial record sang mga kandidato, organisasyon ukon grupo sa bulig sang mga government agencies kaangay sang Commission on Audit (COA), Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR), National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), Philippine National Police (PNP), kag local barangay officials.
Samtang, tanan nga financial kag non-bank institutions ang kinahanglan nga mag-report sang ano man nga makaduluda nga transaksyon sa Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kag sa Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC).
11104, ang sin-o man nga kandidato nga mapamatbatan nga guilty sang vote-buying ukon pag-release ukon pag-disburse sang public funds kadungan sang prohibited period nga 45 days antes ang regular election ukon 30 days antes ang special election ang magapangatubang sang immediate disqualification.
120 ka personnel sang POSMO kag TTMO, i-deploy sa Gaisano ICC, Diversion Road, Mandurriao para sa Uswag Rally
Nakahanda na ang deployment sang mga personnel sang Iloilo City Public Order and Safety Management (POSMO) kag Traffic Transportation and Management Office (TTMO) para sa patigayunon nga Uswag Rally sa Gaisano Capital Grounds, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Retired Police Colonel Uldarico Garbanzos, iya ginpahayag nga ang rally magasugod alas-4 sang hapon kag pagasiraduhon ang dalan sa atubang sang nasambit nga mall.
Suno kay Garbanzos, nagpatuman ma ang talatapan sang coordination meeting kag sang consultation sa lugar nga hiwatan sang aktibidad.
Ginabanta naman nga yara sa 20,000 tubtob 30,000 crowd ang ginalauman nga magatambong sa amo nga kahiwatan.
Gin-ako man sini nga isa sa pagpanghangkat nga mahimo maatubang amo ang parking sang lugar ilabi na nga may mga nagasulod man sa mall kon kagab-ihon.
I-deploy sang POSMO kag TTMO ang 120 ka mga personnel agud bantayan ang dalagan sang trapiko kag ang mga magatambong.
‘Palitan natin ng seal ng Office of the President’: VP Sara, nag-joke sa pagkakas sang OVP Seal
Naghinugyaw ang mga tawo sa isa ka campaign caucus ni Manila Mayoral bet Isko Moreno Domagoso bangud sa mga ginhimo ni Vice President Sara Duterte.
Bag-o ang iya speech para ikampanya ang senatorial slate sang PDP-Laban, ginkakas sang bise presidente ang seal sang Office of the Vice President (OVP) sa atubang sang iya lectern.
Nag-joke ini nga islan na lang ini sang seal ng Office of the President (OP).
Madamo ang naghangop sini nga ini na ang posible nga clue ni Sara sa iya pagpadalagan sa 2028 presidential elections.
“Ang susunod po, mangangampanya po ako sa inyong lahat.
Sandali lang, tanggalin ko lang po ‘yong seal ng aking opisina.
Ah oh, palitan natin ng seal ng Office of the President,” pahayag ni Sara samtang nagasinggit naman ang mga tawo sang “Duterte!
Dugang pa sini: “Tinanggal ko lang kasi iba ‘yong opisina, iba rin ‘yong pangangampanya.”
Apang buwelta pa gid sini: “Pero kung sa pangulo lang pumili lang kayo si Isko Moreno o si Sara Duterte.
Matandaan nga nagpahayag si Sara nga ginkumbinse siya sang iya amay nga si former President Rodrigo Duterte nga magguwa kag magpangampanya ilabi na sa mga nagapadalagan sa idalom sang PDP-Laban.
Ginahimo ini sang bise-presidente samtang pending subong ang impeachment batok sa iya sa Senado.
Sa amo man nga kampanya, naglahog si Sara kay Imee nga islan na lang ang iya apelyido.
Gin-joke man niya ini kun magapabilin gid man ang senadora sa iya nga kampo.
Ay, Romualdez pala yung middle name mo,” pahayag sang bise.
Matandaan nga naghalin si Imee sa senatorial slate nga ginaendorso sang iya utod nga si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kasunod sang pagdakop kay former President Duterte sang Marso 11 kag pagdala sa iya sa The Hague.
Kasunod sadto, nanguna man si Imee sa hearings sang Senado kaangot sa legalidad sang pag-aresto sa former president, tubtub nga sang ulihi, gin-endorso na siya ni Sara sa iya reelection bid.
Former Mayor Eugene Reyes, ginhangkat nga mag-debate si Mayor Samuel Gumarin
Ginkadismaya ni Former Buenavista, Guimaras Mayor Eugene Reyes ang paggamit ni Mayor Samuel Gumarin kag sang iya nga kaalyado sang ayuda sa pagpamulutika.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Eugene Reyes, iya ginpahayag nga sa idalom sang mandatu sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) ginadumilian ang mga kandidato nga magpaguwa sang ayuda ilabi na nga eleksyon.
Suno kay Reyes, tatlo ka semana na ang nagligad, ginkakibot niya nga ang mga residente ang dali-dali nga nagapa-photocopy sang ila mga ID’s bangud sa may i-claim nga ayuda kag pahambalon sang pangalan ni “Mayor Samuel Gumarin”.
Gin-athag man sini nga kasunod sang amo nga tikang sang mga nasambit nga opisyal, ginasundan ini sang pagpanghatag sang ayuda sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
Ginklaro man ni Reyes nga luyag lang niya nga makit-an sang COMELEC Region 6 ang nagakatabo sa ila banwa bangud parte na ini sa vote buying.
Dugang niya nga wala ini nagapamalabag sa mga ayuda para sa senior citizen kag pumuluyo, bangud tuyo lamang niya nga indi maimpluwensyahan sang pagpamulitika ang paghatag sang ayuda.
Ginhangkat man sini nga magdebate si Gumarin agud mahibaluan sang publiko kon sin-o ang nagasugid sang matuod.
Nagapati naman si Sangguniang Bayan Member Vincent Pascal De Asis nga ang ginhimo sang kampo ni Gumarin ang abuse of state resources nga nakasaad man sa COMELEC.
Suno kay De Asis, sa pagselebrar sang Worship Festival sang amo nga banwa, ang administrasyon ang nagbutang sang P350,000 nga amount para sa amo nga aktibidad.
Dugang sini nga may dokumento nga pirmado sang Tourism Officer sang ila banwa nga nagapamatuod nga ang kwarta nga gingamit sa tarpaulin sang festival, ang gin-gamit man sa ila campaign tarpaulins.
Bangud diri, nagalaum ini nga mahatagan sang dako nga igtalupangod sang COMELEC ang amo nga issue.
Ginpahayag man sini nga nagadihon na sila sang legal nga kaso agud mapasaka batok sa mga opisyal agud madagdagan sang show cause order.
Jobhire nga nag-upload sang video ni Mina Mayor Grabato nga nagakwestyon sang Operation Baklas, posible nga may ginlapas nga Comelec guideline
Nagpakig-angot na ang Commission on Elections-Mina, Iloilo sa Task Force Katotohanan, Katapatan at Katarungan (KKK) sang poll body sa possble tikang batuk sa job hire sang Local Government Unit sang banwa nga assigned sa ila opisina bangud sa pagpost sang video online kadungan sang Byernes Santo, Abril 18, 2025.
Sa video makit-an si Mina Mayor Lydia Grabato kag officer sang Comelec sa diin ginakwestyun sang alkalde ang operation sang Oplan Baklas nga natabo sang Abril 4.
Sa statement nga ginpaguwa sang Comelec-Mina, nasaad nga ang video nakuha sang Abril 4 pagkatapos lang sang official operation sang Task Force Baklas sa diin ang mga ginadumilian nga campaign materials sang local kag national candidates ang ginpangkakas kag ginkumpiska.
Nagpadulong sa Comelec-Mina si Mayor Grabato on behalf sang iya political party kag ginkwestyun ang ginpatigayon nga baklas operation sa diin iya ginpabutyag ang iya disapproval kag criticism, ilabi na sa designation sang common poster areas.
Suno sa Comelec-Mina, bilang public servants, bukas sila sa tanan nga sahi sang reklamo kag kritisismo halin sa stakeholders.
Nakahatag naman sang proactive measures ang opisina agud nga ma-address ang reklamo sang alkalde may kaangtanan sa designation sang common poster areas kag ginsabat naman sang Comelec-Mina ang mga palamangkutanon kag concerns halin sa supporters sang iban nga local candidates tuhoy sa baklas operation sang Abril 4 — antes pa man ini gin-post ang video clip online.
Dugang pa sang Comelec-Mina, ang video clip nga gin-upload ang ginakabig nga sahi sang digital information campaign ilabi na nga gin-post pa gid ini sang Good Friday sa diin ginadumilian ang pagpangampanya.
Posible pahayag sang opisina nga ginlapas sang video uploader ang Comelec Resolution No.
Ginkumpirma man sang Comelec-Mina nga job hire sang LGU nga assigned sa ila opisina ang nag-video kag ginpost nga wala man lang nakahibalo ang talatapan.
Samtang ginapabilin sang Comelec-Mina nga wala sang employer-employee relationship sa tunga sang commission kag sa staff, ang opisina ang naghimo na sang precautionary measure kag padayon nga gina-imbestigaran ang insidente.
ICHRP, Magapadala sang International Observers sa Tunga sang Kabalaka sa 2025 Midterm Elections
Gin-anunsyo sang International Coalition for Human Rights in the Philippines (ICHRP) nga magapadala sila sang mga international observers’ para magbantay sa palaabuton nga 2025 Philippine midterm elections.
Ginpahayag sang ICHRP ang ila kabalaka matapos ang mga insidente sang human rights violations nga ila naobserbahan sa nagligad nga 2022 national elections nga ginalakipan sang mga kaso sang vote buying, kapaltahan sang electronic voting system, misinformation, red-tagging, mga banta, kag pagpamatay nga natabo sa tunga sang eleksyon.
Ginpat-od sang ICHRP nga ang ila desisyon nga magpadala liwat sang observers subong 2025 ginalakipan sang mas lawig nga konteksto, lakip na ang pag-aresto sang International Criminal Court (ICC) kay anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte, kag ang wala pag-ilintindihanay tunga sang pamilya Marcos kag Duterte.
Magapamuno man ang ICHRP sang isa ka webinar sa Abril 23, 2025 nga may tema nga “The World is Watching: Philippine Elections 2025,” nga maga-diskusyon sa kaimportansya sang independent monitoring kag papel sini sa demokrasya.
(Ito ay mahalagang pagkakataon upang pagnilayan natin ang banal na pag-aalay ng buhay ni Hesus upang iligtas tayo sa ating mga kasalanan.
Magsilbi sanang ilaw sa atin ang sakripisyo ni Hesus at patatagin natin ang ating pananampalataya sa mga panahong tayo ay nagiging mahina, nawawalan ng pag-asa, o punong-puno ng pasanin, galit, at mga hangaring lumaban sa ating kapwa.)
(“Habang dumaranas ang bayan ng matinding pagsubok at lalong lumalalim ang pagkawatak-watak, ang Kuwaresma ay paanyaya para sa panahon ng paghilom, pagbabalik-loob, at pagbabalik-tanaw sa mga pinahahalagahan nating Pilipino: malasakit, pananampalataya, at pagkakaisa.“)
(Tularan sana natin ang pagmamahal ni Hesus sa atin — ituro ito, palaganapin ito, at gamitin ito sa ating pagsusulong at pagpapalakas ng mga komunidad na nananampalataya, nagsisilbi sa kapwa at sa bayan.)
Ang lahat ng ginagawa natin ay para sa Diyos, sa Bayan, at sa bawat Pamilyang Pilipino.)
Pila ka caucus sang Team Sulong Gugma, ginapatigayon sa pribado nga lugar
Indi sa gihapon matumod sang organizer sang Team Sulong Gugma kon ano ka lawig ang proseso sang pagkuha sang permit sa Iloilo City Hall agud nga makapatuman sila sang caucus sa pila ka barangay sa Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jan Jester Ponsaran, organizer sang Team Sulong Gugma, iya ginpahayag nga may duha sila ka options antes magpatigayon sang amo nga aktibidad.
Una, nagapadala sila sang letter sa punong barangay kon sa diin sila magpatuman sang caucus, kag ang ika-duha amo ang pagpasa sa gihapon sang letter sa punong barangay apisar nga sa pribado nga lugar sila magahiwat sang aktibidad.
Suno kay Ponsaran, ang mga barangay opisyal nga ila ginakuhaan sang permit ang wala nagapugong sa ila kag gina-akomodar ang ila nga aktibidad.
Apang, sa pag-abot sang ila letter sa city hall, didto na kag nagalawig ini, rason nga may mga tion nga indi sila makakuha sang permit.
Ginpasigurado man sang natungdan nga kompleto gid ang mga dokumento nga ila ginapasa antes magpatuman sang campaign rally.
COMELEC-6, nagpirma sang MOA kaupod ang digital payment platforms agud malikawan ang online vote-buying
Nagpirma ang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Region VI sang Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) lakip ang pila ka mga digital payment platforms agud nga mapasangkad ang pagsulundan sa money transfer services sa tion sang 2025 midterm elections.
Dennis Ausan, Regional Director sang Commission on Elections, iya ginpahayag nga sa idalom sang amo nga kasugtanan, pagalimitahan ang balor nga mahimo ma-transfer online, pila ka adlaw antes ang eleksyon.
Suno kay Ausan, ang sakop sang MOA nga payment platforms ang mas hugton ang pag-monitor online sa mahimo makaduluda nga transakyon sa tion sang eleksyon.
Gintuad man sini nga ang tikang ang mahimo makaprotekta sa posible paglapnag sang online vote buying.
Wala man ginpanginwala ni Ausan nga dako nga pagpanghangkat sa ila bahin ang pagdata sang vote buying, online.
Nagpanawagan man ang natungdan sa publiko nga mangin mabinantayon kag magpakig-angot sa ila talatapan pananglitan may makit-an nga makaduluda nga transakyon.
Samtang, nagpasalig ang Commission on Elections Region VI nga hitsu na ang talatapan para sa palaabuton nga May 12, 2025 midterm elections.
Malacañang Palace, nagpasalig nga yara sa maayo nga kondisyon ang ikaayong lawas ni Pres.
Ginpasalig sang Malacañang Palace nga yara sa maayo nga kondisyon ang ikaayong lawas ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Ini ang sabat ni Palace Press Officer Usec Claire Castro sa tunga sang mga espekulasyon angot sa kondisyon sang ikaayong lawas sang Presidente nga nagtuhaw sa social media.
Suno kay Castro nga pamatuod sang maayo nga panglawas sang Presidente amo ang iya adlaw-adlaw nga pagtambong sa nagkalain-lain nga aktibidad sa guwa sang Palasyo kag mga pagsinapol sa Malacañang, nga suno sa iya indi matuman sang Presidente kon indi siya mabakod, mapagsik, kag physically fit.
Mensahe ni Castro sa mga fake news peddlers nga untatan na ang paghimu-himo sang istorya tuhoy sa Presidente bangud indi ini maayo para sa pungsod.
Mas makapaayo suno sa iya nga ipangamuyo lang sang mga Pilipino ang maayo nga panglawason sang Presidente agud nga padayon sini ang epektibo nga pagpamuno sa pungsod kag indi kaangay sang mga nagapakuno-kuno nga doktor sa social media.
Sinabi mo na nga na hindi niyo nirerecognize ang jurisdiction ng ICC”
Nangin mainit ang diskusyon sa tunga nanday Senator Bato dela Rosa kag Justice Secretary Jesus Crispin Remulla kadungan sang ikatatlo nga hugnat sang hearing sang Senado kaangot sa pag-aresto kay former president Rodrigo Duterte kag pagdala sa iya sa The Hague, Netherlands.
Sa hearing, gin-usisa ni Secretary Remulla si Senator Dela Rosa kun nakasabat ini sa communications halin sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Diri kag nagpanindugan si Senator Dela Rosa nga indi siya magsabat sa ICC bangud ang gobyerno mismo ang wala nagakilala sa international court.
Sinabi mo na nga na hindi niyo nirerecognize ang jurisdiction ng ICC.”
Gin-akusaran man ni Secretary Remulla sanday Senator Dela Rosa kag Senator Imee Marcos nga nagapang-bully kag ginapilit nga mag-ako sa mga bagay nga wala man sang dapat akuon.
Nahibaluan nga si Senator Dela Rosa ang isa sa mga gina-imbestigaran sang ICC bilang former chief sang Philippine National Police (PNP) nga amo ang isa sa mga implementers sang maduguon nga war on drugs sang administrasyon ni former President Rodrigo Duterte.
sang Legaspi Dela Rama, Iloilo City, ginpasakaan sang kaso sa Ombudsman; opisyal nagsabat
Ginpasakaan sang kaso sa Ombudsman si Punong Barangay Greg Espinosa sang Barangay Legaspi Dela Rama, Iloilo City Proper bangud sa ginapasuni pagpapreso sang supporter sang Team Gugma.
Sa gin-file nga kaso ni Cherrylyn Molina sang Barangay Balabag Sta.
Suno sa tagreklamo, ginreport sila sang kapitan sa pulis nga nagapanggamo sa Barangay apisar wala ini sang kamatuoran.
Nagapati ini sila nga ang pagpapreso kay Molina ang pamaagi sang punong barangay agud mapahog ang ila pamilya kag mapilitan nga suportahan ang Team Uswag.
Ginapasuni man ginpangkakas ni Punong Barangay Espinosa ang mga tarpaulin sang Team Sulong Gugma nga yara mismo sa balay sang mga tagreklamo.
Nakabutang man sa reklamo nga mapatuman ang ila barangay sang “open ballot policy” agud makita nila kun sino ang ginpangpili sang ila mga residente.
Nagpamahog man si Espinosa nga ipakakas niya ang tanan nga mga job hires sa Iloilo City Hall nga himata ni Molina kun padayunon nila ang pagsuporta sa nga kandidato sang pihak nga partido.
Kaangot diri, nagsabat ang natungdan nga punong barangay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Espinosa, ginpanginwala sini ang tanan nga mga nasambit nga alegasyon nga ginabato sa iya ni Molina.
Suno sa punong barangay, may residente nga nag-report sa iya nga si Molina ang nagawakal sa tunga sang ila dalan apisar nga wala sang may naintindihan.
Para sa ila, nagatuga lang ini sang kagahod.
Dugang ni Espinosa, nagtawag siya sa iya nga secretarya agud nga makapangayo sang bulig kag makaistorya ang residente nga nag-report kag si Molina.
Apang, wala gid nahusay ang duha ka kampo, rason nga nagpatawag na lang siya sang kapulisan.
Ginpunto man sini nga kon nakig-istorya lang sa maayo si Molina sa kapulisan, wala sang rason nga dakpon ini.
Gin-athag man sang punong barangay nga wala siya nakapangkakas sang mga campaign posters sang Team Sulong Gugma bangud mismo siya ang nagpahanugot nga makapatuman sang mini grand rally sa ila barangay.
“Hindi na po bago ito sa pananaw ng taumbayan kung sino ba talaga ang utak o nagpakalat ng fake polvoron video na ‘to,” Castro said.
“Ayon sa aking rekoleksyon, mayroon pa ngang naging usapan na isang foreign influencer or vlogger ang dapat mag post o panggalingan ng video para magmukhang mas kapani-paniwala at upang maiwasan ang anumang posibleng pananagutan mula sa gobyerno ng ating bansa,” Cunanan testified.
“Either nagsisinungaling siya (Cunanan) o wala talaga siyang alam,” Roque said.
“Nalungkot ako, siguro talagang matindi ang pangangailangan dahil ang inaasahan lang niya ay online selling,” Roque said, expressing sympathy.
“Realidad ‘yan ng buhay na kailangan mabuhay.
Malacañang: Ano ang batayan ng pag-hiling ng hair follicle test kay Pangulong Marcos?
Nagsabat ang Malacañang sa matunog nga panawagan nga magpa-hair follicle drug test si Presidente Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
kasunod sang liwat nga paggwa sang issue kaangot sa “polvoron video”.
Ang nasambit nga video ang napamatud-an na nga peke sa diin nagapakita sang isa ka tawo nga nagaanggid sa Presidente kag ginapahayag nagagamit sang cocaine.
Claire Castro ang motibo kag legal nga basehan sang mga nagamando sang drug test, lakip na ang mga netizens, bloggers, kag former Presidential spokesperson Atty.
“Ano ang batayan ng pag-hiling ng hair follicle test kay Pangulong Marcos?
Ito ba ay batay sa isang akusasyon na siya ay gumagamit ng ilegal na droga?” pag-usisa ni Castro.
“Kung may akusasyon, ang nag-aakusa ang may obligasyon na magpatunay.”
Dugang pa ni Castro, “Sa mga nagdedemanda ng test kay Pangulong Marcos, kailangang patunayan ninyo muna na siya ay gumagawa ng mali.”
Ang naglapta nga video, nga una nga ginpagwa sa isa ka Maisug rally sa Los Angeles sang 2024, ang ginkumpirma sang Philippine National Police (PNP) kag mga independent nga fact-checkers nga peke kag ginbag-o gamit ang artificial intelligence (AI) agud mangin kaangid ni Marcos.
Apang liwat nga nagtunog ang isyu sang ini ang nagwa kasunod sang testimonya sang vlogger nga si Vincent “Pebbles” Cunanan sa isa ka House Tri-Committee hearing kaangot sa fake news.
Suno kay Cunanan, si Roque ang utok sa pagpalapta sang video, nga ginapahayag ginapabugal pa sini sa isa ka pribado nga pagtililipon sa Hong Kong nga eksperto siya sa pagpatumba sang mga gobyerno.
Hugot naman nga ginpanginwala ni Roque ang akusasyon kag gintawag nga “scripted show” ang hearing, kag ginlaragway man nga wala sang pulos ang affidavit ni Cunanan.
“Wala akong kapangyarihan na pabagsakin ang gobyerno,” pahayag ni Roque.
“Ang kapalaran ni Pangulong Marcos ay nasa mga kamay ng sambayanang Pilipino, hindi sa akin.”
Dugang pa ni Roque, ang video ang mahimo naghalin lang sa isa ka tawo nga malapit sa Presidente, bangud sa indi pagsanto sang pahayag ni Cunanan kaangot sa source kag una nga nagpalapta sang video.
Mayor Treñas, indi na magpatol kay ICDEO Head Engineer Roy Pacanan
Gintuad ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga indi na siya magpatol ukon magsapak pa kay Iloilo City District Engineering Office (ICDEO) Head Engineer Roy Pacanan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga apisar nga wala sa bungog ni Pacanan ang mag-response sa hingyo sini, kontani sabton na lang sang ICDEO Head ang mga letter nga ginpadala sang mas superior sa iya.
Suno kay Treñas, nagakadapat lang magsabat si Pacanan agud nga mahibaluan ang kahimtangan sang mga wala natapos nga proyekto sang syudad lakip na ang mga multi-purpose gym.
Ginpahayag man sang alkalde nga subong lang gid siya nakasumalang sang isa ka ICDEO Head nga daw wala lang sang problema.
Kon balikan, hugot nga ginpanindugan ni Engr.
Roy Pacanan nga wala nagkulang ang iya opisina sa pagpadala sang mga nagakaigo nga dokumento sa Iloilo City Government nahanungod sa ila nga mga proyekto.
Kabahin ini sang kaundan sang sabat ni Pacanan sa Memorandum nga ginpadala ni Engr.
Sanny Boy Oropel natuhoy sa request ni Mayor Treñas nga supporting documents sang funding sources sang mga ongoing infrastructure projects.
Pahayag ni Pacanan, dapat nga ma-address ni Treñas ang matuod nga isyu tuhoy sa non-completion sang 190 projects nga ginaimplementar sang City Government, kalakip ang construction sang Arevalo, La Paz, kag Jaro Big Markets, amo man ang Iloilo City Hospital.
Suno pa sa iya, indi pagtugutan sang iya opisina nga mabiktima sang pulitikal nga pagpanglimbong sang alkalde.
COMELEC-6, nagpanugyan sa mga kandidato nga magpalamandong sa Semana Santa kag likawan ang mangampanya
Nagpanawagan ang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Region VI sa mga kandidato nga magpamalandong sa tion sang Semana Santa kag likawan ang mangampanya.
Dennis Ausan, Regional Director sang Commission on Elections VI, iya ginpahayag nga tanan nga sahi sang pagpangampanya ang ginadumulian sa Abril 17 tubtob 18, 2025 nga isa ka balaan nga adlaw sa pag-obserba man sang Semana Santa sang simbahang-katolika.
Suno kay Ausan, lakip sa pagsulundan amo ang pagdumili sang social media posting halin sa bahin sang mga kandidato apang, kon ang supporters mismo ang mag-post, react, kag share sang content sang local candidate, mahimo gid nila ini nga ubrahon.
Ginsaysay man sini nga antes ang adlaw sang eleksyon kag adlaw mismo sang eleksyon sa Mayo 11 kag 12, 2025, ginadumilian man ang magpangampanya, sa social media man ukon sa personal.
Nahibaluan nga ang sin-o man ang indi magsunod sa amo nga mga pagsulundan ang magapangatubang sang kaso sa paglapas sa Comelec Resolution No.
Veterans Village, ginpanginwala nga ginpatyan sang suga ang campaign rally sang Team Sulong Gugma
Ginpanginwala sang opisyal sang Barangay Veterans Village, Iloilo City Proper nga ginpatyan nila sang suga ang mini rally sang Team Sulong Gugma kahapon nga adlaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Celia Calaor Campo, iya ginpahayag nga wala man sila sang problema sa permit bangud nakapasa man ang nasambit nga grupo.
Suno kay Campo, ginpahanugutan gani nga maggamit sang covered gym ang grupo bisan nga late na ang ila permit.
Gin-athag man sini nga posible nga nag-low voltage lamang ang natabo ilabi na nga halog ang saksakan nga ila gingamit sa likod sang stage.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga wala nakakonsulta sa ila ang kampo sang Team Sulong Gugma antes nagbutang sang ila mga kinahanglanon sa campaign rally.
Ginpunto man ni Campo nga kontani nagkonsulta ang Team Sulong Gugma agud makapahalinton man sila sang insakto nga saksakan sang ila mga electric devices.
Nagpanindugan man ini nga gin-akomodar nila ang amo nga grupo apisar pa nga lain sila nga Partido.
Baronda, gintawag nga kabutigan ang ebidensya ni former Councilor Nava kasunod sang pagpasaka sini sang kaso
Gintawag ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jamjam” Baronda nga isa ka ‘political plan’ lamang ang ginpasaka nga kaso ni former Iloilo City Councilor Plaridel Nava.
Ini kasunod sang pagpasaka ni Nava sang kaso may kaangtanan sa ginapahayag ‘unexplained wealth’ ni Baronda.
Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga hayag kag bukas sa publiko ang iya nangin pangabuhi.
Suno kay Baronda, simple lamang siya nga nagpangabuhi sugod sang nagsulod siya sa pulitika sang tion sang siya ang isa pa Sangguniang Kabataan (SK).
Ginpaanggid man sini ang kaso nga ginpasaka ni Nava sa kaso nga ginpasaka man sa iya amay nga Councilor Nick Baronda.
Para sa mamalidha, mabasura man ini sa gihapon sang Office of the Ombudsman.
Ginlaragway man ni Baronda nga halin sang-una, ang tanan nga kaso nga ginapasaka batok sa ila pamilya ang lunsay pagpangguba lamang.
Nagpanindugan man ini nga wala siya nakulbaan bangud indi man sila kawatan.
Gin-athag man ni Baronda nga ang mga laragway nga ginpakigbahin ni Nava sa publiko nga ginapahayag sini nga ‘unexplained wealth’ ang lunsay ginhuram lamang niya.
Suno kay Baronda, ka damo sang mga may luyag nga magpahulam sa iya ilabi na nga indi lamang ila barangay ang iya igarepresentar sa tion sang State of the Nation Address (SONA) sang president.
Para sa natungdan, kinahanglan lang nga dapat preparado ang representative sang syudad sa dako nga kahiwatan rason man nga dapat presentable sa publiko.
Kaso nga ginpasaka ni former Councilor Nava batok kay Councilor Nick Baronda, ginbasura sang Ombudsman
Ini ang kasunod sang pagtambong ni Baronda sa special session sang Disyembre 28, 2022 samtang nga yara ini sa luwas sang pungsod kag wala naka-file sang leave of absence kag wala sang authority to travel.
Ang akto ang nagalapas sa Memorandum Circular No.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga Marso 2023 sang nagpasaka sang kaso si Nava sa iya.
Pebrero 2024 sang gin-dismiss ang kaso Ombudsman sa Cebu kag gin-aprobahan sang Septyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno kay Baronda, nag-agi sa insakto nga proseso ang iya nangin byahe sang 2022 apang, ginpabilin sang city council nga himuon siya absent sa amo nga tion.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga naka-comply sila sa mga rekisitos nga ginahingyo sang Ombudsman nga nagapakita nga lunsay alegasyon lamang ang mga ginapanghaboy ni Nava.
Kon balikan, may gin-file nga leave of absence si Baronda nga napetsahan sang Disyembre 16, 2022 apang nabaton lamang sang opisina ni Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon sang Enero 3 subong nga tuig gani, ang aprubado lamang nga leave sini ang nag-umpisa sa amo nga adlaw.
Treñas, ginpanginwala nga siya ang sa likod sang pagpasaka sang kaso ni Nava kay Baronda
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga kaugalingon nga desisyon ni Nava ang pagpasaka sang kaso batok kay Baronda.
Suno kay Treñas, apisar nagasuporta si Nava sa kandidatora sang iya anak nga si Mayoralty candidate Raisa Treñas, wala ini siya labot sa lihok nga gina-ubra ni anay konsehal.
Ginpahayag sang alkalde nga natural lang sa isa ka kandidato nga mapasakaan sang kaso sa Office of the Ombudsman ilabi na kun may nagakwestyon sa mga tago nga manggad ukon sa pagpalakat sini bilang isa ka politiko.
Dugang pa ni Treñas, wala sang rason nga suguon sini si Nava nga pasakaan sang kaso si Baronda bangud para sa iya ‘sure win’ na ang iya anak sa pagpadalagan sini sa pagka-alkalde.
Nahibaluan nga ginakwestyon ni Nava kung paano nasarangan ni Baronda nga magbakal sang mga malahalon nga luxuries, condominium, salakyan, housing unit, kag iban pa.
Gintumod man sini nga antes na-eleher bilang kongresista si Baronda, isa lamang ini ka kontrakwal nga empleyado ni Senator JV Ejercito nga nagasweldo sang P15,000 kada bulan.
Mayor Treñas, ginkatingala kon ngaa apektado gid si Former Mayor Mabilog kag Cong.
Baronda sa iya nangin pahayag sa rally sang Team USWAG
Gin-athag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga wala siya nakamensyonar sang pangalan ni former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog kag Iloilo City Lone District Representative Jamjam Baronda nga nagaangot bilang protector kag pinansyer sang iligal nga druga sa syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginkatingala kon ngaa daw apektado gid ang duha ka mga lideres sang Team Sulong Gugma.
Suno sa alkalde, ang pagbalik sang protektor kag pinansyer sang iligal nga druga sa Iloilo ang iya ginakabalak-an ilabi na nga nabansagan na ang syudad nga “Most Shabulized City”.
Ginlaragway man sang natungdan nga kon sin-o lang ang nakabatyag sa iya nangin pahayag, sila ang naiguan.
Nagdepensa man ini sa mga ginapahayag trolls sang ila kampo, kon sa diin, gintumod sini nga ang kampo ni Baronda ang may madamo nga trolls sa social media.
Statement nga ginpaguwa ni Mayor Treñas batok kay Mabilog, isa lamang ka alegasyon suno sa Team Sulong Gugma
Gin-ako ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga gintinghuwaan niya nga mabuligan si former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sang ini ang nagapangatubang sang mga alegasyon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga nagsakit gid ang iya nga buot sa pagpang-atake sang anay alkalde ilabi na nga isa man siya sa mainit nga nag-abi-abi kay Mabilog sang nagpauli ini sa syudad.
Ginbalikan pa sang natungdan ang iya nangin pahayag nga “Jed is not an enemy.” apang wala siya sang may maubra bangud padayon siya nga ginahaboyan sang mga tinaga ni Mabilog.
Suno kay Treñas, sugod sang nahimo ni Mabilog ang nasambit nga mga akto, naglain na ang iya panulok sa anay alkalde.
Gin-athag naman sang alkalde nga si Mabilog lang man ang nag-clear sa iya nga kaugalingon kag indi buot silingon nga cleared na siya sa mga kaso nga ginapangatubang sini.
Nagpalabtik man ini nga isa na ka ‘common knowledge’ sa mga nakahibalo nahanungod sa kaangtanan ni Mabilog sa iligal nga druga.
Ginlaragway na man sang Team Sulong Gugma ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jamjam” Baronda nga isa lamang ka spekulasyon ang statement nga ginpaguwa ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nahanungod sa mga mabug-at nga ebidensya nga nagaangot kay former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sa iligal nga druga.
John Mallare, spokesperson sang Team Sulong Gugma, iya ginpahayag nga nagapabilin nga spekulasyon lamang bangud wala sang direkta nga ebidensya nga nagatumod sa anay alkalde.
Suno kay Mallare, director mismo sang Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) ang nagsiling nga ang ngalan ni Mabilog ang nadala lamang sa drug list bangud sa nangin pahayag sang anay presidente nga si Rodrigo Duterte.
Gintumod man sini nga ang PDEA man nagpamatuod nga wala sang verifcatio nga natabo agud mabutang sa drug list ang pangalan ni Mabilog.
Ginkwestyon man sang natungdan kon ngaa subong lang ginpaguwa liwat ang amo nga issue nga nagsugod na man ang local campaign period.
Nagakatingala man ini kon ngaa si Mabilog ang ginatira sang Partido ni Treñas nga wala man nagapadalagan sa eleksyon ang anay alkalde kag nagaserbe lamang nga campaign manager.
Former Iloilo City Councilor Plaridel Nava, nagpasaka sang kaso batok kay Cong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Nava, iya ginpahayag nga makatilingala ang gulpiyada nga pagdako sang manggad ni Baronda kag makabakal sang mga malahalon nga luxuries, condominium, salakyan, housing unit, kag iban pa.
Suno kay Nava, ang isa ka manggad nga indi ma-eskplekar ang isa ka ‘Ill-gotten wealth”.
Gintumod man sini nga antes na-eleher bilang kongresista si Baronda, isa lamang ini ka kontrakwal nga empleyado ni Senator JV Ejercito nga nagaswweldo sang P15,000 kada bulan.
Nakasaad man sa affidavit nga wala sang lehitimo nga negosyo ukon profession nga mahimo sini makuhaan sang dako nga income.
Ginpahayag man ni Nava nga indi manggaranon ang pamilya ni Baronda nga mahimo maka-justify sang amo nga mga pagkabutang.
Nagalaum man ini nga paagi sa Statement of Assets, Liabilities, and Net Worth ukon Income Tax Return (ITR) mahimo mapaathag sang mamalidha ang ginapahayag sobra-sobra nga manggad sini.
Ginpunto man sang anay city councilor ang nangin sitwasyon ni former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga na-dismissed sang Ombudsman bangud sa unexplained wealth nga mahimo man matabo kay Baronda.
Suno kay interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Atty.
John Mallare, spokesperson sang Team Sulong Gugma, iya ginpahayag nga indi pa makahatag sang detalye ang mamalidha ilabi na nga wala pa sila nakabaton sang written copy sang kaso.
Dugang ni Mallare, lunsay alegasyon lamang ang mga ginapangbato ni Nava kag wala sang mga ebidensya nga ginakaptan.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala nahadlok ang kampo ni Baronda nga atubangon ang mga panumbungon nga ginpasaka sang anay city councilor.
Ginalantaw man sang natungdan nga ma-dismiss ang kaso bangud isa lamang ini ka pamulitika nga pagpang-atake sa ila.
Nagpalabtik man ini sa kampo sang Team USWAG nga maghulat-hulat lang bangud mabato sila sa ano man nga mga ginahaboy sa ila nga alegasyon.
City COMELEC, gin-athag nga ginadumilian ang pagkampanya sa Maundy Thursday kag Good Friday
Nagpahanumdom sa mga local candidate ang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) nga ginadumilian ang pagpangampanya sa Maundy Thursday kag Good Friday sa tion sang Semana Santa.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant Officer II sang City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga ang Abril 17 tubtob 18, 2025 ang isa ka balaan nga adlaw sa pag-obserba man sang Semana Santa sang simbahang-katolika.
Suno kay Sayno, wala man dapat sang social media posting halin sa bahin sang mga kandidato apang, kon ang supporters mismo ang mag-post, react, and share sang content sang local candidate, mahimo gid nila ini nga ubrahon.
Ginpahayag man sini nga antes ang adlaw sang eleksyon kag adlaw mismo sang eleksyon sa Mayo 11 kag 12, 2025, ginadumilian man ang magpangampanya sa social media man ukon sa personal.
Iloilo City COMELEC, may mga illegally posted tarpaulins na nga nabaklas sa una nga adlaw sang local campaign period
Gintumod sang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) nga may mga nabaklas sila nga illegally posted nga tarpaulins sa syudad kadungan sang imbukada nga adlaw sang local campaign period sang 2025 midterm elections.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga lakip sa mga napangbaklas amo ang campaign materials nga wala nagasunod sa mga propaganda nga nakasaad sa pagsulundan sang talatapan.
Suno kay Sayno, kaupod ang regional office sang COMELEC, naglibot sila sa syudad kag nagsugod halin sa Bonifacio Drive padulong sa Gen.
Sa ila paglibot, ginpahayag sini nga may mga tarpaulins man sang national candidate ang ila nga nakuha.
Gin-ako man sang natungdan nga may mga barangay pa sa syudad nga tubtob subong wala pa nakakadtuan agud sekyaron kon may mga illegally posted nga campaign materials.
Nagpanugyan man ini sa mga kandidato nga mahimo magbutang sang ila campaign posters sa designated area nga may sukol nga 2 feet by 3 feet nga kasangkaron.
Lakip na man sa rekisitos ang pagbutang sang ‘paid for by’ sa tagsa ka poster.
Jam-jam Baronda, nagapati nga maalam sa gihapon ang mga Ilonggo sa pagpili sa ila luyag nga mga lideres
Nagapati si Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-Jam” Baronda nga maalam sa gihapon ang mga Barangay Officials kag Sangguniang Kabataan (SK) sa pagpili sa ila luyag nga mga lideres sa 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Congresswoman Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga apisar nga may mga limitasyon sa pagpakita sang suporta ang mga opisyal sang gobyerno, nakahibalo siya nga ang tagipusuon nila ang maga-boto sang insakto.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala siya sang ano man nga plano nga magpamahog sa mga opisyal nga wala nagasuporta sa ila nga linyada.
Una na nga ginaduso sang mamalidha nga nagakadapat nga untaton na ang mga madamo nga parking fees sa syudad nga isa man sa mga pagsulundan sang Iloilo City Government.
Ginpunto man ni Baronda ang mga utang sang syudad nga para sa iya, tuman ka dako para sa mga proyekto kaangay sang rehabilitation sang mga merkado.
Suno kay Baronda, dapat nga tapuson na man ang city hospital bangud madugay na nga wala ini matapos apisar sang pagbayad sang tax sang mga pumuluyo.
Lakip man sa gintumod sini ang Housing Project sang syudad nga dapat mas masarangan nga mabaydan sang mga Ilonggo ang bulanan sini nga presyo.
Mayor Jerry Treñas, nagtambong sa kick-off rally sang Team USWAG sa Iloilo Freedom Grandstand
Nagtambong sa kick-off rally sang Team USWAG si Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas sa Iloilo Freedom Grandstand kadungan sang imbukada nga adlaw sang local campaign period sang 2025 midterm elections.
Sa nangin mensahe sang alkalde, wala sini napunggan nga tawgon nga ‘pulahan’ ang kampo ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-Jam” Baronda nga Team Sulong Gugma.
Ini bangud man sa ila nga campaign color nga pula, samtang duag blue na man ang sa Team USWAG.
Ginpunto man ni Treñas nga apisar sang madamo nga palamangkutanon ang ginhaboy sa iya sang piyak nga kampo nahanungod sa iya nga ikaayong-lawas, mas nagpabilin siya nga malig-on kag subong, nahimo pa nga mangampanya.
Nagpalabtik man ini sa kasumpong ni incumbent Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon sa pagka-bise alkalde nga nagalaragway nga indi sini luyag nga ang masunod nga vice mayor amo ang ‘obstructionist’ bangud makaapekto ini sa pag-uswag sang syudad.
Gin-ako naman sang alkalde nga magapahuway ini anay sa pulitika rason man nga ginduso sini sa pagkaalkalde ang iya anak nga si Raisa Treñas.
Apang, nagpasalig ini nga kon magbalik sa patag sang pulitika ang ginlaragway sini nga ‘protector’ kag ‘pinansyer’, indi ini magduha-duha nga magbalik man sa pulitika agud bunggo-on ang ginatungdan sini nga mga indibidwal.
Ginbuyagag man ni Treñas nga tuman kabudlay ang iya naagyan sang 2019 sa iya pagungko kasunod sang pagbansag sa syudad nga ‘most shabulized city’ sa pungsod.
Traning session sang Electoral Boards sa Western Visayas, nagtakop na
Nagtakop na ang training sessions sang Electoral Boards sa Western Visayas bilang preparasyon sa nagahilapit nga May 2025 Midterm Elections.
Dennis Ausan, Director sang Commission on Elections (Comelec) Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga kadam-an sa mga electoral boards ang mga beterano na nga nagapartisipar sa mga nagliligad nga eleksyon.
Suno kay Ausan, nagserbe na lang nga refresher course ang training sa diin ginasiguro nga updated sa bag-o nga protocols kag teknolohiya ang mga electoral boards.
Importante ang katungdanan sang Electoral Board sa electoral process bangud sila ang nagasiguro nga tayuyon kag nagasunod sa pagsulundan ang voting procedures.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, may yara sang benepisyo nga mabaton ang electoral boards para sa 2025 midterm elections.
Ang Chairperson sang Electoral Board ang makabaton sang P12,000 nga honorarium samtang P11,000 naman para sa Poll Clerk kag Third Member.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, may yara sang gin-certify ang Department of Science and Technology (DOST) sang indi magnubo sa isa ka poll worker sa kada clustered precinct bilang IT-capable nga amo ang maga-manage maayo sa technical aspects sang voting kag counting processes.
Nahibaluan nga ang eleksyon ang natalana sa Mayo 12, 2025 sa diin magabukas ang polling stations halin las singko sang aga tubtob las siete sang gab-i.
ICPO, handa na sa pagsugod sang local campaign period sang 2025 midterm elections
Preparado ang katapo sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) para sa pagsugod sang local campaign period sang 2025 midterm elections buwas nga adlaw.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Shella Mae Sangrines, spokesperson sang Iloilo City Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga may mga augmentation na sila sang kapulisan agud masiguro ang public safety kadungan sang kahiwatan.
Suno kay Sangrines, kasado na ang comprehensive security measures para sa primero nga adlaw sang kampanyahanay sa lokal nga bahin.
Nagpanugyan man ini sa publiko nga gilayon magpakig-angot sa ila kon may mga concern kag matukiban nga indi maayo nga akto may kaangtanan sa eleksyon.
Ginpasigurado man sang traffic management sang ICPO nga maplastar sang maayo ang traffic visibility sa dalan sang syudad.
Nagbuya man ini sang pasalig nga bisan nagsugod na ang campaign period, magapabilin ang malig-on nga serbisyo sang kapulisan.
Election Officer Patay, Bana sini, pilason matapos gin-ambush sa Maguindanao del Norte
Datu Odin Sinsuat, Maguindanao del Norte – Patay ang isa ka election officer samtang pilason naman ang bana sini matapos gin-ambush sang wala pa nakilala nga mga armado nga suspek sa Barangay Makir, Datu Odin Sinsuat.
Ang mga biktima amo sanday Maceda Lidasan Abo, Election Officer sang Datu Odin Sinsuat, kag bana sini nga si Jojo Abo.
Padulong ang mag-asawa sa Dalican Election Offic sakay sang ila SUV sang ginluthang sang wala pa matumod nga mga suspek.
Padayon naman ang imbestigasyon sang mga otoridad agud matumod ang motibo sa krimen kag kilalahanon ang mga yara sa likod sang pag-ambush.
Nabil Mutia ang pagtaliwan ni Maceda Abo, samtang nagapaayo naman sa ospital ang iya bana.
COMELEC, mangin strikto sa pagbantay sang campaign spending sa May 2025 election
Magapatuman ang Commission on Election (COMELEC) sang hugot nga pagbantay sa campaign spending sa palaabuton nga May 12, 2025, elections.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang COMELEC-Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga hugot nga bantayan sang poll body ang mga kontribusyon kag gasto sang mga kandidato sa piniliay.
Suno kay Sayno, mahimo man sila makapangayo sang bulig sa COMELEC sang mga election watchdog agud mabuligan sila sa pagbantay sang mga gasto sa kampanya kag i-verify ang mga dokumento nga ipasa sang mga nagdaog kag nalutos nga mga kandidato sa pagkatapos sang piniliay kaangot sa ila actual nga mga gasto.
Santo sa pagsulundan sang piniliay, kinahanglan sang tanan nga mga kandidato nga magpasa sang ila statement of contributions and expenses (SOCE) 30 ka adlaw pagkatapos sang eleksyon.
Ang indi pagsunod diri mahimo makapugong sa isa ka nagdaog nga kandidato nga magapungko sa pwesto kag magapangatubang sang kaso administribo kag multahan sang tubtub P30, 000.
Ang mga kandidato para sa senado, kongreso kag iban pa nga local nga kandidato nga nakarehistro sa idalom sang isa ka Partido pampulitika ginapasugtan nga mag-gasto lamang sang P3 sa kada bontante.
Samtang, ang mga independent nga kandidato nga wala sang suporta halin sa ano man nga partido ginapasugtan nga mag-gasto sang P5 para sa kada rehistrado nga botante.
Machine repair hubs, ipahamtang sang COMELEC sa Iloilo Province
ILOILO – May ipahamtang nga machine repair hubs sa kada probinsya sa pungsod para sa May 12, 2025 midterm elections.
Dennis Ausan, Regional Election Director sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang labing una nga tion nga may yara sang technical repair hub nga ipahamtang ang poll body ang kada probinsya sa Pilipinas sa diin nalakip diri ang Iloilo.
Suno kay Ausan, ang nasambit nga inisyatibo ang may katuyuan nga mas mapadasig ang pagkaayo sang automated counting machines kun ini ang nag-malfunction.
Ginpahayag sini nga tuig 2022 ginadala pa sa Cebu ang mga nagguba ukon naaberya nga machines sang Western Visayas rason nga mas mabudlay kag madugay ini.
Nahibaluan nga may yara sang isa ka machine sa kada clustered precinct apang pahayag ni Ausan, may mga ipain man nga mga contingency machines sa tion nga mag-malfunction ang iban sa mga ini.
Ginalauman naman nga magaabot ang automated machine sa Abril, 2025.
Sa idalom sang resolution sang COMELEC, nagakadapat nga makapatigayon pa sang final testing and sealing sang automated machine sa Mayo 2 tubtob Mayo 7 ukon antes ang aktwal nga adlaw sang piniliay.
Legal team ni VP Sara, nakahanda na para sa iya impeachment.
Ginhambal sini nga bag-o pa maaresto sang International Criminal Court (ICC) ang iya amay nga si former President Rodrigo Duterte, kompleto na ang iya impeachment team.
Nagapati ini nga nakahanda na ang tanan nga mga legal team niya para sabton ang impeachment batok sa iya.
Samtang, ginpahayag naman sang Bise Presidente nga indi niya basta-basta mabayaan sa The Netherlands ang iya amay tubtob indi makumpleto ang legal team para sa former President.
Ginahulat na lang nila ang mga papeles halin sa mga abogado para mapakilala ang mga ini sa anay Presidente.
Iloilo City COMELEC, nagpahanumdom sa barangay officials sang ila limitasyon sa pagsuporta sa kandidato sa 2025 midterms elections
Nagpaandam ang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) sa mga barangay officials nga may mga limitasyon nga dapat sundon sa pagpakita sang suporta sa mga kandidato nga magapapili sa 2025 midterms elections.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang Iloilo City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga ginadumilian ang mga barangay officials nga gamiton ang ila state resources, pondo sang barangay, kag bisan ang mga kagamitan nga ginapanag-iyan sang barangay.
Suno kay Sayno, bawal man ang paggamit sang mga salakyan sa campaign period nga ginapanag-iyahan sang barangay.
Sa piyak sini, mahimo na man nga makapapabutyag ang barangay officials sang ila naluyagan nga kandidato.
Ini ang santo man sa ruling sang Supreme Court.
Una na nga pahanumdom ang COMELEC sa mga kandidato nga mangbaklas sila sang mga illegally posted nga tarpaulins magsugod ang local campaign period sa Marso 28, 2025.
Nahibaluan nga santo sa pagsulundan sang talatapan, ang tagsa ka kandidato ang mahimo magbutang sang ila campaign posters sa designated area nga may sukol nga 2 feet by 3 feet nga kasangkaron.
Prosecution panel sa Kamara, naghingyo sa Senado sang writ of summons batok kay VP Sara Duterte
Nag-file ang House prosecution panel sang entry of appearance nga may upod nga motion to issue summons sa Senado.
Ginhingyo sang mga ini kay Senate President Francis Escudero nga magpagwa sang writ of summons para kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Pinaagi sa nasambit nga writ, ginamanduan si Duterte nga magpasa sang sabat sa Articles of Impeachment sa sulod sang 10 ka adlaw umpisa nga mabaton ang mando.
Una na nga ginduso ni Escudero ang timeline para sa impeachment trial, sa diin umpisahan ini sa pagbasa sang Articles of Impeachment sa Hunyo 2 kag pagasundan sang approval sang revised impeachment trial rules.
Operation Baklas sang Iloilo City COMELEC, masugod na sa Marso 28, 2025, kadungan sang local campaign period
Magasugod na ang Operation Baklas nga isa sa preparasyon sang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) sa pagsugod sang 2025 election campaign sang local candidates sa syudad sa Marso 28, 2025.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga na-activate na sang talatapan nga mag-umpisa pagpangbaklas sang tarpaulin nga nakahamtang sa indi designated areas.
Suno kay Sayno, may mga designated area na man kon sa diin mahimo nga makatakod ang mga kandidato sang ila campaign materials.
Ginpasigurado man sini nga kakson gid ang mga tarpaulin nga nakatapik sa public places nga ginadumilian sang talatapan.
Indi na man magtandog ang COMELEC sa mga tarpaulin nga nakabuang sa mga pribado nga estabisyemento.
Nahibaluan nga ang aktibidad ang isa man ka synchronize nga aktibidad nga ginapatuman sa bug-os nga pungsod.
Political analyst, ginalantaw nga isa ka political dynamic ang ginhimo nga imbestigasyon ni Sen.
Gin-athag sang isa ka public law expert nga kinamatarong sang Senado nga makapatuman sang imbestigasyon nahanungod sa pagkadakop ni former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Joenar Pueblo, Bombo Abogado, iya ginpahayag nga ang tikang ang isa ka palaagyan para sa legislation agud nga makahatag sang rekomendasyon.
Suno kay Pueblo, sa amo nga tion, may kapasidad ang mga senador agud nga ma-contempt ang isa ka indibidwal kon indi makasunod sa ginahingyo sang senado.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga mahimo man nga isa ka political dynamic ang ginahimo ni Senator Imee Marcos nga amo ang nagpanguna sa imbestigasyon bangud man sa nagapapili ini bilang senador sa 2025 midterm elections.
Nagapati man ini nga indi manegar nga tubtob subong, may mga ukod nga nagasuporta sa anay presidente sang pungsod nga mahimo man rason kon ngaa ginpangunahan ni Senator Marcos ang imbestigasyon.
Mayor Treñas, ginklaro nga fake news ang nagalapta nga candle lighting kag prayer rally nga patigayunon sang syudad para kay FPRRD
Ginpanginwala ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas ang nagalapta nga fake news may kaangtanan sa patigayunon sang syudad nga candle lighting kag prayers para kay former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang nagalapta nga facebook post nga nagapahayag sang nasambit nga kahiwatan ang wala sang kamatuoran.
Suno kay Treñas, bisan isa sa mga empleyado sang Iloilo City Hall ang wala nagtambong sa ano man nga kahiwatan nga nagasuporta sa anay presidente.
Gin-athag man sini nga nagahatag sang permit ang syudad sa mga ginapatigayon nga protesta ukon pagtililipon kon wala lang man ini nagatuga sang gamo.
Nagapati man ang alkalde nga may due process nga gina-apply kay Duterte kag may ikasarang ang International Criminal Court nga magpatuman sang patas nga pagbusisi sa kaso sini nga crime against humanity.
Nagpangabay man ang natungdan sa publiko nga likawan ang pagpaguwa sang mga impormasyon nga indi verified agud indi na magsangkad pa ang fake news.
Suno kay Remulla, natuman na ang handom ni Duterte nga atubangon sini ang tanan nga mga akusasyon sa iya.
At sinabi naman niya na haharapin niya ang mga kaso.
Sa tingin ko, paulit-ulit niyang sinabi sa ating lahat, sa mga Pilipino, na haharapin niya ang anumang paratang laban sa kanya, kahit sa ICC.
Ginpaathag sang tiglikom nga nagapadayon na ang legal nga proseso batok kay Duterte sa The Hague, Netherlands sa diin gintalana ang hearing sini sa Setyembre 23.
Nagsimula na ang proseso sa The Hague, at may nakatakdang pagdinig sa Setyembre 23.
Kaya doon tayo aasa,” dugang pa sang tiglikom.
Sang gin-usisa naman kaangot sa pagsunod sang gobyerno sa mando sang Korte Suprema nga maghatag sang kumento sa mga consolidated habeas corpus petitions nga gin-file sang mga anak ni Duterte, ginkumpirma ni Remulla nga napasa na nila ang ila sabat.
“Binigyan kami ng pahintulot ng Executive Secretary na kami ang sumagot.
Naibigay na namin ang komento namin kahapon.”
Nangin malip-ot naman ang sabat ni Remulla sa mga detalye sang ginpasa nila nga sabat sa Korte Suprema.
Kung ano ang isinumite namin, iyon na iyon.”
Ginmanduan man sang Korte Suprema ang mag-utod nga mga Duterte nga sanday Paolo, Sebastian kag Veronica nga maghatag sang kumento sa sulod sang 5 ka adlaw sa sabat sang DOJ sa ila petitions for habeas corpus para sa ila amay.
Samtang padayon nga ginabantayan sang tanan ang kaso ni Duterte sa ICC, nagpanawagan si Remulla sang paghugpong kag ginhatagan sang pagtamod ang importansya sang hustisya.
“Dapat tayong manatiling nagkakaisa bilang isang bansa sa diwa ng hustisya.
Ang nais lang natin ay maipatupad ang hustisya, para man sa mga biktima o sa mga akusado.
Defensor Jr., nagapati nga wala sang rason nga indi secured ang pungsod bilang Tourist Destination
nga wala sang rason agud indi mangin secured ang Pilipinas bilang Tourist Destination.
Ini kasunod man sang pagpaguwa sang Australia sang travel advisory may kaangtanan sa security concerns sang pungsod.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Governor Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga wala siya sang may nakit-an nga problema sa seguridad para sa mga dumuluong sang pungsod kag bisan sa Western Visayas.
Gin-agda man sini ang mga Australian Nationals nga magpadulong sa Iloilo agud nga makit-an ang katahum sang syudad kag probinsya.
Suno kay Defensor, wala sang dalagko-an nga mga hublag-protesta sang anti kag pro-Duterte ang ginahiwat sa Iloilo.
Gin-athag man sini nga hilway ang mga may tuyo nga magprotesta nga isa man sa ila kinamatarong agud magpakita sang ila suporta.
Nagpanugyan man ang gobernador nga mangin responsable sa pag-exercise sang kinamatarong agud nga wala man sang may matapakan nga kinamatarong sang iban.
Una na nga ginpahanumduman sang gobyerno sang Australia ang mga pumuluyo sini nga likawan ang magpadulong ukon makigbahin sa mga protesta kag mga dalagkuan nga pagtililipon bangud posible nga mangin bayolente ang mga ini.
Kalakip sa mga lugar nga partikular nga gintumod ang central kag western Mindanao, kaupod na ang Zamboanga Peninsula, Sulu, kag Southern Sulu Sea kun sa diin mataas ang risgo sang terorismo kag pagpangidnap.
Harry Roque nga indi magpanago kag magpauli na sa Pilipinas.
Si Roque ang nagapangatubang sang non-bailable nga kaso nga qualified human trafficking kag ginmanduan sang House of Representatives nga mapreso matapos gin-cite in contempt sa hearing sang kongreso kaangot sa Philippine offshore gaming operators (POGOs).
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Bureau of Immigration nga indi matumod ang nahamtangan ni Roque, apisar nagwa nga yara ini sa Dubai sang Disyembre matapos ang iya bakasyon sa Japan.
Apang sang damlag lang, nagwa si Roque matapos ang pag-aresto kay former President Rodrigo Duterte sang International Criminal Court (ICC) sa The Hague, Netherlands.
Diri kag nagpanawagan ini nga dal-on pauli si Duterte sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Castro, mas maayo nga magpauli man si Roque sa Pilipinas kag likawan na ang pagpanago.
Councilor Cabaluna, nagapati wala sang posibilidad nga ma-connect sa pagdamo sang iligal nga druga sa syudad ang pagkaaresto ni FPRRD
Nagapati si Iloilo City Councilor Sedfrey Cabaluna nga wala sang posibilidad nga ma-connect sa pagdamo sang iligal nga druga ang pagkaaresto ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa kaso nga crime against humanity nga gindagdag sang International Criminal Court (ICC).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Cabaluna, iya ginpahayag nga very visible ang trabaho sang kapulisan sa pagkampanya batok sa iligal nga druga.
Suno kay Cabaluna, ginaubra sang local government unit (LGU) ang pagpasangkad sang collaboration sa kapulisan agud nga mapapas ang illegal drugs.
Dugang sini nga dapat mas pabaskugon ang rehabilitation sang gobyerno sa mga nadakpan nga durugista agud nga indi na sila makabalik sa malain nga bisyo.
Nahibaluan nga sang damlag lang minilyon ka iligal nga druga ang nakumpiskar sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO), Police Regional Office 6 (PRO-6), kag Provincial Drug Enforcement Unit (PDEU) kasunod sang ila ginapatigayon nga buy-bust operation.
Governor Defensor Jr., nagalaum nga indi maapektohan ang trabaho sang gobyerno sa nagatabo nga political tension sa Pilipinas
nga indi maapektohan ang trabaho sang gobyerno kasunod sang nagakalatabo nga political tension sa Pilipinas.
Ini kasunod man sang pagkaaresto kay former President Rodrigo Duterte bangud sa kaso nga crime against humanity.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Governor Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga mas nakatutok subong ang gobyerno probinsyal sa mga nagapanguna nga problema sang probinsya.
Suno sa natungdan, magapabilin ang pagpakibato sang probinsya sa mga problema apisar sang matunog nga diskusyon sang kaso ni Duterte.
sa fairness sang International Criminal Court (ICC) amo man sa mga korte sang Pilipinas.
Dugang sini nga mangin masulhay nga hustisya paagi sa insakto nga proseso.
Una na nga nagpahayag ang gobernador nga apisar sang tension sa pungsod, padayon sa gihapon ang pagtrabaho ilabi na sa Iloilo nga may ginapangatubang nga food security, dengue, kag ang mataas nga heat index.
Mayor Jerry Treñas, handa atubangon ang imbestigasyon sang Iloilo Central kag Terminal Market sa Kamara
Handa si Iloilo City MIloilo Central Market nga atubangon kon hinali nga mag-escalate ang imbestigasyon sa Iloilo Central Market kag Iloilo Terminal Market.
Ini kasunod man sa ginpaguwa nga statement sang isa ka senatorial candidate nga nagpadulong sa syudad agud magsekyar sang mga merkado.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga kon maglab-ot gidman sa Kamara, handa siya nga atubangon ang mga palamangkutanon.
Nagpanindugan man ini nga nag-agi sa insakto ang proseso sang pagpakaayo sang mga mercado.
Nagapati man ang alkalde nga nagsunod sa pagsulundan ang proyekto sang syudad kon sa diin, unanimously approved sa Iloilo City council.
Gin-athag man ni Fantilaga nga nagapabilin nga transparent sa publiko ang paghuman sang mga merkado.
Nahibaluan nga una na nga nagpasalig ang syudad nga sa bulan sang Mayo, mahimo na makasaylo ang mga vendors kag magamit ang duha ka merkado.
Pag-atubang ni Duterte sa Pre-Trial Chamber sang ICC, ginabantayan na
Ginabantayan na sang tanan ang una nga pag-atubang ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa Pre-Trial Chamber I sang International Criminal Court (ICC).
Patigayunon ini alas-9 karon sa gab-i sa oras sa Pilipinas.
Ang hearing ang pangunahan nanday Judge Iulia Antoanella Motoc (Romania), kaupod sanday Judge Reine Adélaïde Sophie Alapini-Gansou (Benin) kag Judge María del Socorro Flores Liera (Mexico).
Nestor Jeremy Moreno, professor sa University of San Agustin College of Law, iya ginpahayag nga sa Pre-Trial Chamber I ipahibalo kay Duterte ang mga kaso nga ginpasaka sa iya, ang iya kinamatarong bilang akusado kag ang schedule sang mga masunod nga mga hearing.
Ginalauman man nga kuwestyunon sang depensa ang jurisdiction sang ICC bangud naghalin na ang Pilipinas sa international tribunal sang 2019.
Suno kay Moreno, apisar ginalauman nga magadugay pa ang hearing sa ginapangatubang sini nga kaso, may posibilidad man nga makabalik si Duterte sa Pilipinas sa tion nga mapamatud-an nga wala ini sang sala ukon magdesisyon ang ICC nga wala ini sang jurisdiction sa kaso.
Sa subong, nagapabilin si Duterte sa detention unit sang ICC sa Scheveningen sa diin kabahin ini sang Dutch prison.
Duterte, magaatubang sa una nga hearing sang International Criminal Court
Magaatubang sa Pre-Trial Chamber I sang International Criminal Court (ICC) si former President Rodrigo Duterte para sa iya una nga hearing subong nga Marso 14, Biyernes, alas-2 sang hapon Central European Time (CET) ukon (alas-9 sang gab-i sa oras sa Pilipinas).
Pangunahan ang hearing nanday Judge Iulia Antoanella Motoc (Romania), kaupod sanday Judge Reine Adélaïde Sophie Alapini-Gansou (Benin) kag Judge María del Socorro Flores Liera (Mexico).
Diri kag ipahibalo kay Duterte ang mga kaso nga ginpasaka sa iya, ang iya kinamatarong bilang akusado kag ang schedule sang mga masunod nga mga hearing.
Hearing sang Committee on Engineering kaangot sa pag-veto ni Mayor Treñas sa road closure sang DPWH, wala nadayon subong nga adlaw
Ini sa idalom man sa regulation ordinance 2025-045.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga, spokesperson ni Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang rason sa pag-veto sang ordinansa amo bangud sa department order 110 kag ang local government code.
Nagaguwa sa pag-review sang legal sang City Mayor’s Office nga wala nakapatigayon sang pre-construction kag consultation sa local chief executive ang Iloilo City District Engineering Office (ICDEO) nga isa sa requirement para sa mga proyekto sang syudad.
Suno kay Fantilaga, ang nasambit nga pagsulundan ang wala natuman sang nasambit nga talatapan rason nga wala man mahatagan sang pahanugot para sa road closure.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga indi pamulitika ang ginahimo sang city government bangud nagasunod lamang sila sa rekisitos.
City Councilor Duron, ginklaro nga wala sini gina-apinan si former Pres.
Ginklaro ni Iloilo City Councilor Romel Duron nga wala sini gina-apinan si former President Rodrigo Duterte apisar nga nagasimpatiya ini sa anay presidente.
Ini kasunod man sang pag-aresto kay Duterte bangud sa International Criminal Court arrest warrant sa kasal-anan sini nga crime against humanity.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Duron, iya ginpahayag nga kon napasakaan sang kaso ang anay presidente sa Pilipinas, wala na siya kuntani gindala sa The Hague, Netherlands.
Suno kay Duron, indi na lang siya maghatag sang komentar sa kon legal ukon iligal ang pagpadala sang gobyerno sa anay presidente.
Ginkwestyon man sini kon ngaa nadugayan gid ang administrasyon ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
sa pagpasaka sang kaso batok kay Duterte apisar nga wala na ini sa gahum.
Gin-ako man sang natungdan nga may mga kapaltahan gidman sa war on drugs ni Duterte apang indi manegar nga may hinimuan man ini sa pungsod.
Nagapati man ini nga ang layi sa Pilipinas ang indi magamit sa International Court of Justice, conviction man ini ukon acquittal.
Eroplano nga ginasakyan ni Duterte, nag-stopover sa Dubai Int’l Airport
Santo sa flightradar24.com, 8:04 subong nga aga, yara sa Dubai ang anay presidente.
Matapos ang stopover sa Dubai, magapadulong ang eroplano sa Rotterdam Airport sa The Netherlands, sa diin magaatubang si Duterte sa International Criminal Court sa kaso sini nga crimes against humanity.
Ini ang naangot sa maduguon sini nga war on drugs sang tion sang iya administrasyon sa diin linibo ang nabiktima sang extrajudicial killings.
Pamilya sang nabiktima sang war on drugs ni Former Pres.
Duterte, gibakabig nga hustisya ang pagka-aresto sa anay presidente
Ginakabig sang pila ka pamilya sang nabiktima sang extra judicial killings sa tion sang war on drugs ni Former President Rodrigo Duterte nga isa ka hustisya ang pagka-aresto sa anay presidente.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Crimson Labinghisa, anak sang nabiktima sang war on drugs, iya ginpahayag nga isa ka palaagyan ang arrest warrant sang International Criminal Court agud nga mahatagan sang sabat ang madugay na nila nga ginasinggitan nga hustisya.
Suno kay Labinghisa, bangud sa lihok sang ICC, amat-amat na nga mauntat ang ‘impunity’ sa Pilipinas.
Ginpahayag man sini nga nangin rampant sa pungsod ang pagpamatay kag paglapas sa international humanitarian law.
Gina-abi-abi man sang natungdan ang pagpanikasog sang ICC nga naghatag sang development sa kaso sang EJKs.
Gary Alejano, ginpunto nga wala sang pamulitika kag legal ang pag-aresto kay Former Pres.
Ginkalipay apang may kabalaka ang nabatyagan si Former Congressman Gary Alejano matapos nga na-issue ang International Criminal Court (ICC) sang warrant of arrest batok kay Former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alejano, iya ginpahayag nga una na siya nga nagpasaka sang kaso, apang gilayon man nga ginbasura bangud sa amo nga tion, wala sang plano ang administrasyon nga pasabton ang anay presidente.
Gin-athag man sini nga indi dapat magkabalaka ang supporters ni Duterte bangud maga-agi sang insakto nga due process ang kaso.
Ginpunto man sang natungdan nga indi matabo kay Duterte ang natabo sa mga biktima sang extra judicial killings sa tion sang iya administrasyon bangud wala sang ‘due process’ ang mga ginpamatay bangud sa war on drugs.
Suno kay Alejano, sakop sa gihapon sang ICC ang kaso ni Duterte bangud na-file ini antes pa man nga nagkalas ang Pilipinas sa ICC sang 2019.
Para sa iya, dapat mangin malipay ang Pilipino bangud isa ini ka palaagyan agud nga mas mapabaskog ang sistema sang demokrasya sang Pilipinas.
Nagpanindugan man ini nga wala sang pamulitika sa nangin proseso kag lunsay legal ang natabo.
Kitty, gintawag nga illegal ang pag-aresto sa iya amay nga si ex-Pres.
Gintawag nga illegal ni Veronica ‘Kitty’ Duterte ang pag-aresto sa iya amay nga si former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Ini ang gin-post mismo sang anay presidential daughter sa iya Instagram.
Una na nga ginkumpirma sang Malacañang ang pag-aresto sa anay presidente matapos gindagdagan sang warrant of arrest bangud sa crimes against humanity sang International Criminal Court (ICC).
Duterte, gindakop na kag gindala sa Camp Crame
Martin Delgra, abogado ni Duterte, gindakop ang anay president matapos naghugpa na sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport ang eroplano nga ginasakyan sini halin sa Hong Kong.
Samtang suno naman sa longtime aide ni Duterte nga si Sen.
Bong Go, wala nila makit-an ang arrest warrant para sa anay presidente.
Ginapahayag nga si Duterte ang subject sang warrant of arrest sang International Criminal Court (ICC).
‘Isn’t it the other way around?’ Malacañang, nagsabat sa ginsiling ni Sara nga na-scam siya sang 2022
Ginsabat sang Malacañang ang pahayag ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga na-scam siya sang 2022 elections.
Sang 2022, kaupod ni Sara nga nagpadalagan si subong President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Sa pag-atubang sa Filipino community sa Hong Kong, ginsiling ni Sara nga naintuan siya sang nagpadalagan sila sa platform nga sa paghangop niya nakabase sa “ unity and continuity.
Bangud na-“ budol ” siya suno kay Sara, indi na siya mag-endorso sang bisan sin-o man nga kandidato.
“Akala ko kasi mas gusto niya ng mas magandang bayan kasi ang plataporma namin nung tumakbo kami unity at continuity.
Nadala na ako, na-scam na ako, nabudol na ako.
Hindi ako mag-endorso ng kandidato kasi baka pagkatapos ng election, sasabihin ninyo na naman, na-scam kami ni Inday Sara,” kabahin sang speech ni Sara sa pag-atubang sa overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) nga nagahinugyaw sa Wan Chai, Domingo, Marso 9.
Claire Castro, baliskad ang pahayag ni Sara nga siya ang na-scam.
Ginsiling sini nga wala gid siguro naghaum ang mga miyembro sang Uniteam nga amo sini kadasig si Sara maggasto sang P125 million confidential funds.
”Hindi naman po siguro inakala din ng miyembro o ng mga miyembro ng UniTeam na mabilis magagastos ni VP Sara iyong P125 million confidential funds in just 11 days, hindi naman po siguro inisip iyon at nagbigay ng tiwala sa kanya,” suno kay Castro.
Ginbukad man ni Castro pati ang nabuy-an anay sang bise-presidente nga “kill order” batok sa President pananglitan may magpatay man sa iya.
”Hindi rin po siguro inisip ng Uniteam noon na siya may mga kakilalang assassin at hindi rin po inisip ng Uniteam noon na ang gustong continuation, kasi parang mayroon pong sinabi na dapat may continuity, pero hindi rin po papayag ang Pangulo na ituloy po iyong sinasabing bloody tokhang at EJK.”
Kun balikan, ang namensyonar nga confidential funds ang naangot sa ginbulgar sang Kamara nga naubos ang minilyon ka pesos nga pondo sang Office of the Vice President (OVP) sa 11 lamang ka adlaw, kag amo ang nangin sentro sang imbestigasyon kun ngaa nagguluwa ang mga pangalan nga Mary Grace Piattos nga wala sang record sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA).#
Mayor Treñas, liwat nagpahanumdom sa ICDEO nga maghatag sang update kaangot sa mga proyekto sang syudad
Liwat nga nagpahanumdom si Mayor Jerry Treñas sa Iloilo City District Engineering Office (ICDEO) sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Region 6 sa ila paghatag sang update sa alkalde kag sa congressman kaangot sa mga proyekto sang syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga, spokesperson ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga nagakabalaka ang bahin sang syudad bangud nagapabilin nga wala sang sabat ang nasambit nga talatapan.
Una na nga wala nanamian ang alkalde sa indi pagsabat sang ICDEO sa ila hingyo nahanunungod sa financial status sang mga proyekto nga nakahamtang sa duta sang Iloilo City.
Nahibaluan nga 2015 pa lang sang nakasaad sa mandate sang DPWH nga nagakadapat nga maghatag sang detalye ang nasambit nga opisina sa syudad nahanungod sa ‘progress’ sang isa ka proyekto.
Suno kay Fantilaga, nalakip sa mandu amo ang paghatag sang listahan sang mga proyekto, implementation schedule, kag monthly progress sini sa idalom sang Project Monitoring System (PMS).
Matandaan nga ginkadismaya sang alkalde ang nangin lihok sang ni ICDEO Head Roy Pacanan nga indi pag-attend sa ginpatawag nga pagsinapol sang nagligad nga Marso 7, 2025.
2 pa ka “Piatos”, isa ka ‘Xiaome Ocho’, nakakuha man sang OVP confidential funds —congressman
Ginbulgar sang isa ka kongresista nga magluwas sa kontrobersyal nga “Mary Grace Piattos”, may mga kapareho pa sini nga apelyido nga nakabaton man sang confidential funds ni Vice President Sara Duterte.
Paolo Ortega V sang La Union, natukiban sa bag-o nga mga dokumenbto sa impeachment complaint nga may duha pa ka pangalan nga amo ang “Pia Piatos -Lim” kag “Renan Piatos.”
Apang indi kaangay kay Mary Grace, ang ila apelyido nga “Piatos” ang may isa lamang ka letter T sa spelling.
Nagguwa man sa lista sang nakabaton sang confidential fund si “Xiaome Ocho” nga katunog naman sang cellphone model nga Xiaomi nga nahimo sadtong 2018.
Suno naman kay Ortega, tumalagsahon ang special treatment sa pamilya “Piattos” bangud tatlo gid sila ang qualified nga nakabaton sang confidential funds.
“Grabe naman ang ‘special treatment’ sa pamilya Piattos.
May Mary Grace Piattos, may Pia Piatos-Lim, may Renan Piatos.
Ano bang meron sa kanila at parang qualified silang lahat makatanggap ng confidential funds?” suno sa kongresista.
Ini nga mga pangalan amo ang gin-report ni Sara sa Commission on Audit (COA) sang ginbaton sini ang iya nga confidential funds.
Gin-insister ni Ortega nga dapat maghatag sang paathag si Sara kaangot sa sini nga mga personalidad nga ginhatagan niya sang pondo.
“Ang akala natin, isang pangalan lang ang katawa-tawa sa listahan ng confidential funds recipients.
Pero mukhang may buong pamilya na ng ‘Piattos’ at pati isang cellphone model na nakasama,” suno pa sa solon.
Ginpasalig man sang Young Gun nga i-expose sini ang dugang nga mga miyembro sang iya gintawag nga “Budol Gang” nga nagatumod sa unique nga mga pangalan nga naka-mensyonar sa mga resibo ni Sara.
Ini nga mga resibo ang naangot sa P125 million confidential funds ni Sara nga gingasto sa sulod lamang sang 11 ka adlaw sang 2022 santo sa nauna nga rebelasyon ni Marikina 2nd District Rep.
Matandaan nga pila ka beses na nga gintinguhaan nga mahibal-an kun sin-o si “Mary Grace Piattos”, gindala man sa hearings sang quad comm, kag gin-anunsyo pa ang reward money sa sin-o man nga makatudlo kun sin-o ini, apang tubtub subong, ligom-dulom ang publiko kun sin-o ini nga persona.
Nahibaluan nga ang kwestyunable nga paggamit sang confidential fund ang nalakip sa Articles of Impeachment nga gin-file sang Kamara batok kay Sara sang Pebrero 5.
Gina-uyatan subong sang Senado ang bola bangud ang upper chamber ang magapungko nga impeachment court sa sini nga kaso.
Mayor Jerry Treñas, ginsabat ang sulat nga ginpaguwa ni CDEO Head Engr.
Ginsabat ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas ang sulat nga ginpaguwa ni Iloilo City District Engineering Office Head Engineer Roy Pacanan.
Ini kasunod man sang gintawag sang talatapan nga ‘political script’ ang nagakatabo nga delay sa pila ka proyekto sa Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga isa lang man kontani ka direkta nga sabat ang ila ginahulat sa bahin ni Pacanan kag wala na sang damo pa nga paliko-liko.
Suno kay Treñas, bilang abogado, gapamangkot lang man siya kon may budget pa gidman agud nga mapadayon ang wala natapos nga mga pasildad.
Gin-athag man sini nga indi na kinahanglan nga magpaliko-liko pa bangud update lang man ang ila luyag nga mahibaluan.
Gintumod man sang alkalde nga subong lang gid nga tinion nga nakasalapo siya sang engineer sa City District Engineering Office nga naga-intra sa pulitika.
Nahibaluan nga wala sang plano si Pacanan sa tinutuyo sang syudad nga meeting.
Patigayunon kuntani ang meeting buwas, Byernes, Marso 7, 2025.
Handa naman kontani ang alkalde nga magpamati sang bahin ni Pacanan apisar pa nga naka-persona non grata ini sa syudad.
Iloilo City District Engineering Office, nagapabilin nga wala sang pagpaathag sa mga multipurpose building nga wala matapos
Nagapabilin nga wala sang pagpaathag ang Iloilo City District Engineering Office sa pila ka mga multipurpose building nga wala matapos.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Ruby Gallano sang Brgy.
San Isidro, Jaro, iya ginpahayag nga 2022 sang ginsugoran ang pagtukod sang Multipurpose Building sa ila barangay.
Suno kay Gallano, bisan sila ang wala nakahibalo kon sin-o ang kontraktor sang pasilidad.
Ginpahayag man ni Gallano nga apat tubtob anom lang ka tawo ang iya nakit-an nga nagatrabaho sa proyekto.
Nahibaluan nga nagabalor sang P73,989,067 ang proyekto sa idalom sang Department of Public Works and Highways Region 6.
Amado Hollero kaangot sa P39.7 million nga disallowed transaction sa idalom sang pagpamuno ni former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog
Ini kaangot sa P39.7 million nga disallowed transaction sang Iloilo City Government sa idalom sang pagpamuno ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Hollero, iya ginpahayag nga Pebrero 5, 2025 sang nagsulat siya sang letter kag gilayon man nga nag-response ang Office of the Ombudsman.
Suno kay Hollero, nagsulat man ang Ombudsman sa Office of City Accountant nahanungod sa amo nga concern kon sa diin, nagpahayag ang opisina nga mangayo anay sang 10 ka adlaw agud nga makasabat.
Gintuad man sini nga luyag lamang niya nga mahibaluan ang natabo sa disallowed transaction kag hatagan igtalupangod sang Ombudsman ang amo nga concern.
Luyag man sang natungdan nga masabat ni Mabilog ang amo nga transakyon agud maklaro ini sa publiko.
Nagapati man ini nga ang Ombudsman ang may ikasarang agud nga ma-address ang issue kag malab-ot ang anay alkalde.
Gin-athag man ni Jollero nga wala sang lamod pulitika ang iya tinutuyo kag bisan sin-o ang may kinamatarong agud magpamangkot natuhoy sa amo nga transaksyon.
Iloilo Provincial Legal Department, gin-athag nga indi maapektohan ang trabaho ni PICAO Officer Nereo Lujan sa tion nga magdagdagan ini sang departure order
Gin-athag sang Iloilo Provincial Legal Department nga indi maapektohan ang trabaho ni Iloilo Provincial Information and Community Affairs Officer Nereo Lujan sa tion nga magdagdagan ini sang departure order.
Dennis Ventilacion, head sang Iloilo Provincial Legal Department, iya ginpahayag nga wala sang bearing sa operation sang Provincial Capitol ang departure order batok kay Lujan.
Suno kay Ventilacion, kon may byahe gidman padulong sa guwa sang pungsod si Lujan, kag may departure order, kinahanglan nga maglisensya siya anay sa korte agud mapahanugotan nga makabyahe.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala sang pagbag-o sa trabaho ni Lujan sa provincial capitol.
Wala naman nagkomentar si Ventilacion sa ginpaguwa ni Mayor Treñas ang mga litrato ni Lujan nga ginaalegar nagagamit sang van sang Iloilo Provincial Government nga indi sakop sang iya trabaho.
Una na nga nagpasaka sang 12 counts sang cyber libel si Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas batok kay Lujan, kon sa diin, nakitaan sang tatlo sang grounds agud padayunon ang kaso.
Nahibaluan nga nagabalor sang ₱48,000 ang piyansa sa kada count sang cyber libel case sa diin may kabug-usan nga ₱144,000 ang ginbaydan ni Lujan.
Ini ang base sa Memorandum Order 19-1006 nga ginpagwa ni House Secretary General Reginald Velasco.
Suno kay Velasco, may importante nga papel ang impeachment Secretariat sa paghatag sang kinahanglanon nga logistical, research kag documentation support sa House prosecution team.
Ang impeachment Secretariat ginabug-usan sang mga tiglawas halin sa Office of the Secretary General, Office of the Sergeant at Arms, Legislative Operations Department, Legal Affairs Department kag iban pa nga may kaangtanan nga yunit sang Kamara.
Ang mga assigned officers kag employees ang magasunod sa istrikto nga pagsulundan kag ethical guidelines sang Kamara.
Nagapati naman si Manila 3rd District Rep.
Joel Chua, katapo sang 11-man House Prosecution Team, ang pagtukod sang House Secretariat, ang bilang suporta sa ila sa impeachment trial batok kay VP Duterte.
Ginpasalig naman ni Chua nga handa na ang prosecution team sa impeachment proceedings.
Natalana nga magsapol sa masunod nga mga inadlaw ang 11-man House Prosecution Team upod sa mga katapo ukon staff sang bag-o natukod nga House Secretariat agud ma-iron out ang mga bagay may kaangtanan sa pagsugod sang impeachment trial batok kay VP Sara Duterte.
Pila ka senior citizen sa Rizal Pala-Pala Uno, City Proper, ginapahayag ginkakas bilang benepisyaryo sang cash for senior citizens bangud sa pagsuporta sa ‘political rivals’
Ginpangkakas ang pila ka senior citizens sa Brgy.
Rizal Pala-Pala Uno, Iloilo City Proper bilang benepisyaryo sang cash for senior citizens bangud sa ginapahayag sa ila pagsuporta sa ‘political rivals’.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Perlita Detablan, Senior Citizen President sang nasambit nga barangay, iya ginpahayag nga sa ila bahin, wala pa sang may nakala-ot nga reklamo nahanungod sa pagpangkakas sang ila katapo bangud sa ginapahayag pagpakita sang suporta sa team USWAG ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas.
Suno kay Detablan, gilayon man nga ginapahibalo sa iya kon may mga senior citizens nga ginapangkakas ukon ginadugang sa amo nga cash for senior citizens.
Gintumod man sini nga santo sa iya nabatian nga mga reports, kalabanan sa reklamo amo ang ginapahayag nagapadulong sa ila punong barangay nga magpalista, apang kon indi kaalyado sang punong barangay, wala sini ginadala bilang benipesyaryo.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga wala sang pagpanagtaganay sang cash assistance subong nga adlaw, baliskad man sa nagalapta nga impormasyon sa ila mga katapo.
Nahibaluan nga ang cash assistance ang kabahin sang Expanded Centenarians Act of 2024 kun sa diin ang octogenarians ukon 80 tubtob 85-anyos kag nonagenarians ukon 90 tubtob 95-anyos ang nagabaton sang P10,000, samtang ang mga centenarians ukon 100-anyos ang nagabaton sang P100,000.
Una na nga nagpabutyag sang pagkabalaka ang Iloilo City government sa isa ka palaabuton nga cash payout event sa Pebrero 28, nga ginreport nga gin-organisar ni Iloilo City lone District Rep.
Julienne “Jam-Jam” Baronda nga wala sang nagakaigo nga koordinasyon sa opisina ni Mayor Treñas.
Nabaton na man sang National Commission of Senior Citizens ang sulat nga ginpadala sang Iloilo City government sa amo nga talatapan naangot sa ginaalegar pagpangkakas sang mga senior citizen bilang benepisyaryo.
Joy Fantilaga, spokesperson ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginapahayag nga indi ini ang una nga kahigayunan nga natabo bangud makapila na man ka beses nga nabatian sang talatapan ang amo nga reklamo.
Rizal Pala-Pala Uno lang gid ang nangisog nga magpalab-ot sang ila concern sa city government.
Gin-athag man sini nga indi luyag sang alkalde nga magamit sa pamulitika ang cash gift sang senior citizens.
Ginbuyagyag man sang natungdan nga ang grant sa cash for senior citizens ang naghalin sa pagpanguna ni Iloilo City lone District Rep.
Gintumod man ni Fantilaga nga santo sa guidelines, dapat nagakoordinar kontani sila sa Local Government Unit ukon LGU apang ang nagakatabo, nagaderetso sila sa mga kabarangayan.
Pamatbat sang RTC Branch 65 nga guilty sa kaso nga online libel kay SB De Asis, nag-ugat sa pagtawag sini nga ‘kawatan’ kay Vice Mayor Beltran
Present ang tanan nga elemento sang cyber libel nga ginpasaka ni Buenavista, Guimaras Vice Mayor Cyril Beltran batok kay Sangguniang Bayan Member Vincent Pascal De Asis.
Jose Recsan Tormon, Abogado ni Vice Mayor Beltran, iya ginpahayag nga nag-ugat ang indi pag-intindihanay sang duha sa nangin komento ni De Asis post ni Beltran sang 2022.
Suno kay Tormon, ang post ang nagaunod sang picture nga nagabayaw sa kamot ni Guimaras Vice Governor John Edward Gando.
Gintuad man sini nga nakasaad sa komento ni De Asis nga ginatawag sini nga kawatan si Beltran bangud sa alegasyon sa isa ka purenarya.
Nagsabat naman ang bise-alkalde nga kon mapamatud-an sini ang iya alegasyon, gilayo siya nga maga-resign sa pwesto.
Tormon nga maistorya ang duha ka apang wala gid nahitsu ang indi pag-intindihanay.
Nahibaluan nga Disyembre 2022 sang nagpasaka sang kaso si Beltran batok kay De Asis.
Sang damlag lang, ginpamatbatan sang Regional Trial Court (RTC) Branch 65 nga guilty sa kaso nga nga online libel si De Asis.
Mayor Jerry Treñas, ginkalipay ang nangin resulta sa gin-file niya nga cyber libel batok kay Mr.
Ginkalipay ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas ang nangin resulta sa gin-file niya nga cyber libel batok kay Iloilo Provincial Information and Community Affairs Officer Nereo Lujan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga maayo man nga nakapyansa gilayon si Lujan agud man makapadayon siya sang iya facebook posting kag makapadayon man ang alkalde pasaka sang dugang nga kaso.
Suno kay Treñas, nagahulat lang man ang ila kampo sang mahimo idugang nga post ni Lujan agud mapasakaan sang kaso.
Handa man ang alkalde sa dugang nga mga facebook posting ni Lujan.
Kon balikan, nagpaguwa sang resolution sang Iloilo City Prosecutor’s Office nga nakitaan nila sang malisya ang tatlo ka mga posts ni Lujan.
Una na nga nagpasaka sang 12 counts sang cyber libel si Treñas batok kay Lujan, kon sa diin, sa subong nakitaan ang tatlo sang grounds agud padayunon ang kaso.
Impeachment trial ni VP Sara, maumpisa na sa Hulyo 30
Suno kay Escudero, nagpagwa ini sang Senate Special Order 2025-015 para sa impeachment trial nga natalana sa Hulyo 30.
Sa idalom sang mando, gin-appoint ang Senate Secretary bilang Clerk of Court nga may importante nga papel santo sa Rules of Procedure on Impeachment Trials.
Nag-appoint man ini sang pila ka importante nga opisina sa Senado para sa masulhay nga pagpatigayon sang impeachment.
Samtang ang Deputy Secretary for Administrative and Financial Services ang magatutok sa budget, suplay, kag iban pa nga logistics.
Ginpahayag ni Escudero nga ginpadal-an man niya sang sulat si House Speaker Martin Romualdez kaangot diri.
Iloilo City Legal Office, ginalantaw nga madutlan sang anti-graft and corruption ang anay administrasyon ni Former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog
Ginalantaw sang Iloilo City Legal Office nga mahimo madutlan sang anti-graft and corruption ang anay administrasyon ni Former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Ini kaangot sa lloilo Ferry Terminal sa Parola Wharf sa tion sang Mabilog administration.
Joseph Edward Areño, City Legal Office, iya ginpahayag nga nakitaan nila sang madamo nga violation ang bahin sang joint venture agreement sa tunga sang anay administrasyon ni Mabilog kag sang Double Dragon Properties Corporation (DDPC).
Suno kay Areño, natukiban nga ang agreement ang indi rehistrado kag nahimo ang korporasyon sa tuig kon sa diin mismo ginpirmahan ang amo nga proyekto.
Gin-athag man sini nga ang amo nga korporasyon ang wala kontani sang pahanugot agud makasulod sa isa ka agreement.
Ginbuyagyag man sang natungdan nga nagpadala sila sang duha ka letter sa nasambit nga korporasyon, apang wala pa sila sang nabaton nga response.
Una na nga natukiban nga wala nagapasa ang korporasyon sang annual reports sa project operations, nga requirement man sa kasugtanan.
Kaangot sini, nagdepensa naman si Mabilog nga ang 2012 joint venture agreement ang makabenepisyo sa syudad sang amo nga tuig sa diin indi pa ini makabig nga ‘booming economic hub’, bagay nga ginkwestyon ni Treñas.
Gin-athag man sang anay alkalde nga wala naggasto ang syudad sang bisan isa ka sentimo ukon nag-loan para sa nasambit nga proyekto.
Jam-jam Baronda nga nga indi inutangan ang mga eskwelahan nga ginpatindog sa Iloilo City
Nagpalabtik si Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas kay Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-jam” Baronda nga indi inutangan ang mga eskwelahan nga ginpatindog sang syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang tanan nga gintukod nga eskwelahan, ang pondo ang naghalin sa special education fund kag wala naghalin sa national government.
Suno kay Treñas, ang P2 billion nga budget sa mga eskwelahan ang wala sang bahid sang utang.
Ginpunto man sini ang legislative building nga nagabalor sang P250 million ang naghalin sa pondo sang Iloilo City government kag indi inutangan.
Ginplastar man sang natungdan nga ang sitwasyon sa merkado sa syudad ang yara sa income generating process naghalin ang gingamit nga pondo.
Gin-athag man sini nga nagaganar lamang sang budget agud mapondohan ang mga merkado rason nga may utang ang syudad.
Campaign rally sang team Duterte sa Iloilo City nga hiwaton kuntani sa Marso 1, 2025, gin-isol sa Abril
Gin-reschedule sang Duterte Campaign Team Western Visayas ang ila pagahiwaton kontani nga campaign rally sang Team Duterte kag Partido Demokratiko Pilipino Lakas ng Bayan (PDP Laban) sa La Paz Freedom Park in La Paz, Iloilo sa Marso 1, 2025.
Hansel Didulo, spokesperson sang campaign team sang Duterte, iya ginpahayag nga nakatalana na kuntani nga magpatuman sang traffic scheme ang Iloilo City Traffic Management Unit (ICTMU) apang, gin-isol ang petsa sang amo nga kahiwatan.
Suno kay Didulo, nakakuha na sila sang permit para sa caravan kag rally kon sa diin, nahatag na man sa ila sang Pebrero 24, 2025.
Apang, gin-anunsyo sang national nga bahin sang Duterte Campaign Team nga i-reschedule ang petsa sa bulan sang Abril.
Gin-ako man sini nga wala siya nakahibalo sang rason sang rescheduling apang ginpasigurado sini nga madayon na sa Abril.
Nahibaluan nga ang Iloilo City lang gid ang syudad nga tuyo padulongan ni Former President Rodrigo Duterte sa Western Visayas kadungan man sa paghiwat sang rally sa pila ka lugar sa rehiyon.
Mayor Treñas, gintawag nga ‘mango’ ang mga indibidwal nga nagapahayag nga ginaangkon niya ang kredito sang privatization sang Iloilo International Airport
Ginpanginwala ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga ginakuha sini ang kredito sang privatization sang Iloilo International Airport.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga trabaho niya nga lantawon kag magpanguna facilitate sang mga infrastructure projects bangud siya ang chairman sang Infrastructure Development Committee (IDC) sang Regional Development Council.
Suno kay Treñas, ang proyekto ang indi iya kag ini ang ginpondohan sang gobyerno paagi sa ila nga buhis.
Gintawag man sini nga mango kag kitid-utok ang mga indibidwal nga nagapahayag nga ginaangkon niya ang proyekto.
Gintuad man sang alkalde nga bilang isa ka public servant trabaho sini nga sekyaron ang tagsa ka proyekto sang syudad.
Nagpalabtik man ini sa mga naga-claim sang kredito sa ginapatukod nga multipurpose gym sa pila ka barangay sa syudad.
Korte Suprema, ginmanduan ang Kongreso nga magpaathag sa hingyo ni VP Sara nga ibasura ang iya impeachment
Ginmanduan sang Korte Suprema ang Kamara kag Senado nga magpasa sang ila kumento kaangot sa petisyon ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga ibasura ang impeachment case batok sa iya.
Camille Ting, may 10 ka adlaw ang Kongreso agud ipasa ang ila sabat sa Korte Suprema.
Una na nga ginkwestyon ni Duterte ang legalidad sang impeachment complaint batok sa iya.
Ang mangin sabat sang Kongreso ang magadesisyon sa masunod nga tikang sa impeachment.
Marcos, wala sang plano nga panason ang EDSA Revolution sa maragtas
Claire Castro nga wala sang anuman nga plano si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga panason ang EDSA People Power sa maragtas sang Pilipinas.
Suno kay Castro, prerogative sang presidente ang pagdeklarar sang Pebrero 25 bilang isa ka special working day kag wala ini nagakahulugan nga pagpa-untat sang anuman nga pagdumdom sang maragtason nga hitabo.
“Ang deklarasyon ay hindi pumipigil sa publiko na makiisa sa mga aktibidad na may kinalaman sa EDSA People Power.”
Ginpahayag ni Castro nga wala nagmando si Marcos sang suspension sa anuman nga commemoration, nga mahimo hangpon bilang pagtuyo nga panason ang EDSA People Power, bagay nga imposible nga matabo.
Hindi kakayanin na ang Presidente ay mabura ito sa history.”
Ang pahayag nga ini ang kasunod sang mga wala tuo nga pagpakamalaot sa administrasyon kaangot sa desisyon sini nga himuon nga regular nga opisina ang anibersaryo sang EDSA People Power subong nga tuig.
‘Hindi ba ‘to campaign joke?’: Palasyo, nagsabat sa buwelta ni Duterte vs Marcos sa gold reserves
Kaangot ini sa pahayag ni Duterte nga wala sang transparency kaangot sa pagbaligya sang gobyerno sang gold reserves.
Ginsiling man sini nga wala nakahibalo ang mga Pinoy kun sa diin ini kag tagpila ang pagbaligya sini.
”Wala ta kabalo ang gold diin gibaligya ug pila.
Ginkwestyon naman sang undersecretary kun isa na naman ini ka campaign joke.
Ginhaylo man sini ang mga tawo nga indi magpati ilabi na bangud naka-promisa man anay si Duterte nga mag-jet ski sa West Philippine Sea apang wala man nahimo.
”Hindi ba ‘to campaign joke ulit ni dating Pangulong Duterte?’ ‘ suno kay Castro.
”Hindi pa ba tayo nasanay doon sa jet ski promise niya?
Na noong naniwala tayo halos sa mga sumuporta sa kaniya ay tinawag tayong “stupido,” kapag naniwala ba tayo ulit sa sinasabi niyang ito eh baka mapagkamalan niya tayo ulit at tawagin tayong stupid,” dugang sini.
Dapat seryosohon ang amo sini nga mga statement suno kay Castro agud malikawan ang paglapta sang fake news.
Ginsiling man sini nga isa ka regular nga aktibidad ang pagbaligya sang gold reserves, apang makatilingala nga ginasulit-sulit ini ni Duterte.
”Ang nagtataka lang ako, bakit paulit-ulit na bini-bring up ni dating Pangulong Duterte.
Wala ba siyang mga economic experts na magsasabi sa kaniya kung ano ba talaga ang regular activities ng BSP?” suno pa kay Castro.
Sang Septyembre matandaan nga nagdepensa ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) nga ang pagbaligya sang gold holdings sa first half sang tuig ang makabig nga “active management strategy.”#
Marcos, indi manaog sa pwesto sa 2028, magadeklarar sang martial law — Duterte
Nagbalos si former President Rodrigo Duterte matapos ang sunod-sunod nga mga pagpalagtik nga ginhimo ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sa mga campaign rally para sa 2025 midterm elections.
Sa indignation rally sa Mandaue City, Cebu, Pebrero 22, kun sa diin personal nga nagtambong ang anay punong ehekutibo kaupod ang iya mga gina-endorso nga mga kandidato sa pagka-senador, ginsiling sini nga antes magtakop ang termino ni Marcos sa 2028, magapatuman ini sang martial law.
para magarantiya nga wala sang eleksyon kag mapalawig pa ang iya pagtinir sa Malacañang.
Mo pusta ko sa inyo, dili na manaog pagkahuman sa iyang termino.
Pareha na sa iyang tatay, magkagubot na pud ta because ang iyang buhaton mag-declare na pud ug martial law pareho sa iyang papa.
‘Pag martial law, walay eleksyon,” suno kay Duterte.
Madumduman nga sang Septyembre 1972 sang nagdeklarar ang amay nga Marcos sang martial law kag nagpabilin sa opisina bilang presidentE sang pungsod tubtub nga napahalin ini paagi sa EDSA People Power Revolution sang Pebrero 1986.
Sa iya speech, naghingyo man ang former president sa militar kag pulis nga maghimo sang moral decisions kag indi pagsakyan ang ambisyon sang isa ka tawo.
Duha lamang ang pilian sang soldado kag pulis suno kay Duterte nga amo ang sayop kag ang matarong.
”Kamong mga sundalo ug pulis paminaw mo, kanang ambition sa usa ka tao ayaw mo ug pagsakay kay madugay o madali matapos man gyud na, unya illegal mana.
Pamili mo, duha ra mana, naay sayop, naay tama,” dugang sini sa iya nga speech.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga semana, gintawag man ni Duterte si Marcos nga bangag kag nagagamit sang iligal nga droga.
Nagbalos man si President Marcos kag nagsiling nga ang iya mga kandidato ang wala naga-apin kag nagahugyaw para sa China, wala naga-akto bilang sakristan sa sala nga propeta nga may kaso sa pagpang-abuso, wala nagpangbulsa sang kuwarta sang gobyerno sang may pandemya, kag wala sang mantsa sang dugo ang ila mga kamot sa war on drugs.#
Office of the Ombudsman, ginhatagan sang 5 ka adlaw sanday Buenavista Mayor Gumarin kag Vice Mayor Beltran, agud sabton ang indi paghatag sang year-end bonus sa pila ka empleyado
Ginhatagan sang lima ka adlaw sang Office of the Ombudsman sanday Buenavista, Guimaras Mayor Samuel Gumarin kag Vice Mayor Cyril Beltran agud sabton ang indi paghatag sang mga opisyal sang year-end bonus kag cash gift sang pila ka empleyado sang munisipyo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Former Buenavista, Guimaras Mayor Eugene Reyes, iya ginpahayag nga madugay na sila nga naga-demand sang sabat halin kay Beltran kag Gumarin bangud 2022 pa sang wala mahatag ang cash gifts sang pila ka naghalin na nga empleyado sang Buenavista Local Government Unit (LGU).
Suno kay Reyes, siyam sila nga mga empleyado ang wala nakabaton sang ila benefits apisar sang ila hingyo.
Ginpahayag man sini nga bisan ang municipal accountant kag municipal budget sang banwa ang nagapabutyag nga nagakadapat ihatag ang ila benepisyo.
Nagadalagan naman sa balor nga P70 to P80,000 ang sarang nga makuha ni Reyes sa nasambit nga cash gift kag bonus.
Gin-athag man ni Reyes nga antes nagpaguwa ang Office of the Ombudsman, nakapadala siya sang sulat sa duha ka mga opisyal, apang si Vice Mayor Beltran lang ang nagsabat.
Para kay Reyes, ginpasalig kag ginpabungol-bungolan lang sila kon sa diin, ginhangkat pa nga magpasaka sang kaso, rason man nga nagpasaka siya sang kaso nga Dereliction of duty.
Nagalaum man ang natungdan nga masabat nila ang indi paghatag sang cash gifts ukon benefits sa mga anay empleyado sang si Reyes pa ang nagapungko bilang alkalde.
Sa ngalan sang patas nga pagwaragwag, bukas ang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Vice Mayor Beltran kag Mayor Gumarin agud nga makasabat sa amo nga complaint.
COMELEC, gin-ako nga ‘honest mistake’ sang ICPO ang indi paglawag kay mayoral candidate Roland Magahin sa covenant signing
Gin-ako sang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) nga isa ka ‘honest mistake’ sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) ang natabo nga indi paglawag kay mayoral candidate nga si Roland Magahin sa ginhiwat nga Caravan, Unity Walk and Covenant Signing para sa 2025 National & Local Elections nga ginpatigayon sa Iloilo Freedom Grandstand.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang Iloilo City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga tanan nga mga kandidato ang ginpadal-an sang sulat sang imbitasyon agud magtambong sa amo nga kahiwatan.
Suno kay Sayno, ang staff sang kampo ni Magahin ang nagpadulong sa ila agud magpahibalo nga wala nalawagan ang amo nga mayoral candidate.
Ginpahayag man sini nga gintinghuwaan gid sang talatapan nga malawagan si Magahin agud ma-recognize.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga ginhatagan gid sang kahigayonan agud mahatagan sang exposure si Magahin kasunod sang na-miss-look ang pangalan sini.
Nagapangayo man sang pasaylo ang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) kay Magahin bangud katapo man sang pulis ang nag-host sang kahiwatan.
Nahibaluan nga si Magahin nga residente sang Bo.
Ang natungdan ang isa man ka negosyante kag nagaserbe nga kag foster father ni former World Boxing Foundation (WBF) welterweight king William Magahin.
Salvador Panelo, nagapati nga magadalagan sa pagka-presidente si VP Sara Duterte sa 2028 Elections
Suno kay Panelo, sigurado nga magadalagan ang bise presidente sa masunod nga Presidential Elections.
Ginpanindugan sang anay Duterte appointee nga indi kuntani matabo ang conflict nanday Duterte kag Marcos kun una na nga nagdesisyon si VP Sara nga magpadalagan sa pagka-presidente sa 2022 elections.
Talalupangdon nga si VP Sara nagsiling na sang una nga ‘seryoso nga ginakonsidera’ niya ang pagpadalagan sa pagkapresidente sa 2028.
Una nga gin-impeach si VP Sara sa Kamara sang Pebrero 5, samtang ginalauman nga magapadayon ang impeachment trial sa masunod nga mga binulan.
Kon lubos siya nga mapahalin sa pwesto paagi sa impeachment, ma-disqualify siya sa pag-uyat sang anuman nga public office, base sa probisyon sang kasuguan.
Una na nga nag-file sang petisyon sa Korte Suprema ang isa ka abogado nga nagahingyo sang pag-issue sang court order nga naga-require sa Senado nga gilayon nga aksyonan ang kaso nga impeachment batuk kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Catalino Generillo Jr., iya ginhingyo sa korte nga mag-issue sang writ of mandamus agud gilayon nga ipatawag ang mga Senador bilang impeachment court kag gilayon nga magpatigayon sang public trial kasunod sang pag-file sang impeachment case sang Kamara.
Residente sang San Juan, Molo, ginpa-Bombo ang ila kapitan bangud wala sang ballpen agud magpirma sang dokumento
Nagpa-Bombo ang isa ka pumuluyo sang Brgy.
San Juan, Molo, Iloilo City bangud sa ginaalegar ginapabuyan-buyanan sang ila punong barangay nga pirmahan ang dokumento nga insigida nila nga kinahanglan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Judilyn Ortiz, nagpa-Bombo, iya ginpahayag nga nag-process sila sang dokumento agud nga makapyansa ang iya himata kon sa diin, nagakinahanglan ini sang pirma sang ila punong barangay.
Kahapon nga adlaw sang nagpadulong sila sa barangay hall agud nga magpapirma sang dokumento.
Ginkatingala man sini ang kadugayon sang pagbalik ni Punong Barangay Jose Martin Maloto kasunod sang paglisensya sini nga makuha sang ballpen.
Nagkadto naman si Ortiz sa balay sang opisyal kon sa diin, nakit-an sini ang secretary sang barangay nga nauyatan ang dokumento kag nagpahayag nga sa barangay hall na lang pirmahan.
Naabtan naman sang natungdan si Punong Barangay Jose Martin Maloto nga nagapanilhig kag wala man sang iban nga ginaubra.
Didto na kag nagbaylohanay sila sang indi manami nga tinaga tubtob wala nasayran ang transakyon.
Natigayon naman nga napirmahan ni Maloto ang dokumento apang alas-9 na sa masunod nga adlaw kon sa diin nagtuga sang delay, rason man nga wala nakapyansa ang himata sang nagpa-Bombo.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala sang kahilabtanan ang kaso sang iya himata sa amo nga sitwasyon.
Nagpaathag naman si Punong Barangay Jose Martin Maloto nga wala siya naghambal nga indi siya magpirma sa dokumento nga ginapangayo ni Judilyn Ortiz para sa iya himata.
Suno kay Punong Barangay Jose Martin Maloto, iya ginpahayag nga indi opisina ang ila barangay agud nga magpirma sang ila dokumento.
Gin-athag man sini nga natabuan man nga may bisita siya sang naglisensya nga magkuha sang ballpen sa ila puluy-an.
Apang, gilayon nga nagpadulong si Ortiz kag nagwaldati kon sa diin, para sa iya, indi maayo nga akto.
Suno kay Maloto, dapat ibutang sa insakto nga pamaagi ang pagpapirma sang kinahanglanon nga dokumento.
Para sa natungdan, isa ka pangbastos sa ila puluy-an kag sa iya bilang opisyal ang ginhimo ni Ortiz.
Durugista kag pakaisa sini nga nagtiro sa pulis sa drug buy bust operation sa Trapiche, Oton, wala pa sa gihapon nadakpan
ILOILO – Padayon pa nga ginapangita sang mga otoridad ang durugista nga subject sa drug buy bust operation sang Provincial Drug Enforcement Unit (PDEU) sa Sitio Tuburan, Barangay Trapiche, Oton, Iloilo.
Ini amo si Mike Cantera, residente sang nasambit nga barangay.
Sa amo nga insidente, pilason ang isa ka pulis matapos ginluthang sang 12 gauge homemade shotgun sang pakaisa sang subject nga kaupod sini nga nagpalagyo.
Ang pulis amo si Police Corporal Gilbert Lingaya nga nagaserbe nga backup, residente sang Barangay Damires, New Lucena, Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Dadje De Lima, head sang PDEU, iya ginpahayag nga nagapadayon pa subong ang hot pursuit operation agud madakpan si Cantera kag pakaisa sini.
Suno kay De Lima, sang nagdeklarar sang buy bust ang police poseur buyer, gilayon nga nagpalupok sang armas ang pakaisa sang subject sa diin naigo si Lingaya.
Ginhingalitan naman ini ni Cantera agud makapalagyo.
Naglawig pa sang tatlo ka oras ang negosasyon sang mga otoridad sa pagdumdom nga nagapanago lang si Cantera kag pakaisa sini sa sulod sang balay.
Lakip sa mga nag-negosyar amo ang misis ni Cantera, Oton, Iloilo Mayor Mayor Sofronio Fusin, Jr., Punong Barangay Jeorge Mediodia kag si Iloilo Police Provincial Office Director Police Colonel Bayani Razalan.
Matapos sini, nagdesisyon ang mga pulis nga sudlon ang balay sang subject kag didto natukiban nga nagpalagyo na ini.
Nagpanawagan man si De Lima sa subject kag sa pakaisa sini nga magsungka na sa mga otoridad kag atubangon ang mga panumbungon.
Escudero: Kailangan may sesyon ang Kongreso bago kami makapag-convene ng impeachment court
Suno kay Escudero, wala siya na-pressure kasunod sang petisyon ni Bayan Muna Chairperson Atty.
Neri Colmenares nga manduan ang mga senador nga gilayon nga mag-convene bilang impeachment court.
“Dalawang buwan ‘yan inupuan ng mga congressman… Sino naman sila ngayon para madaliin kami samantalang sila naman ay tila hindi nagmamadali kaugnay sa kanilang reklamo mismo?”
Ginpahayag sini nga kinahanglan nga may sesyon ang Senado ukon Kamara antes mag-convene sang impeachment court.
Maathag suno sa natungdan sa ila rules nga tubtob naka-recess ang sesyon sang Kongreso, wala sang matabo nga trial.
Kailangan may sesyon ang Kongreso bago kami makapag-convene ng impeachment court.”
Matandaan nga kahapon, ginmanduan sang Korte Suprema ang Senado nga magpasa sang kumento sa petition nga nagahingyo sa ila nga mag-akto gilayon sa impeachment trial batok kay Duterte.
Mayor Treñas, ginkwestyon ang mga wala natapos nga proyekto ni Rep.
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Magapatigayon sang pagsinapol si Iloilo City Administrator Melchor Tan kag ang Department of Public Works and Highways-Iloilo City District Engr.
Roy Pacanan kaangot sa mga wala natapos nga proyekto sa Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga nakabaton sila sang mga reklamo sa pila ka mga residente kag barangay officials kaangot sa mga wala natapos nga mga multi-purpose gym projects sa syudad.
Tungod sini, ginmanduan niya si Tan nga makigsapol kay Pacanan agud masolusyunan ang problema.
Ini ang ginalakipan sang facilities sa Barangay Concepcion, City Proper, kag Barangay Katilingban, Molo, kag iban pa nga yara sa idalom sang Iloilo City District Engineering Office.
Magluwas diri, luyag man sini mahibaluan ang rason sang atrasado nga pagtapos sang Mandurriao Public Market nga ginpondohan sang national government.
Suno kay Treñas, nagpasalig sadto si Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne ‘Jamjam’ Baronda, apang sa indi mahibaluan nga rason, wala ini napadayon.
Magluwas diri, ginareklamo man sang alkalde ang wala natigayon nga sports complex sa sulod sang Jalandoni Memorial National High School.
Ginpahayag sang alkalde nga ang mga duta sa nasambit nga proyekto ang ginapanag-iyahan sang Iloilo City Government.
Apang kun wala na sang pondo, mas mayo suno sa natungdan nga i-turn over na lang ini sa Iloilo City Government agud mapangitaan sang pondo kag matapos ang mga proyekto.
House prosecution team, nagapati nga indi dapat magpahilabot ang Korte Suprema sa impeachment trial batok kay VP Sara
Ini ang kasunod sang pag-file sang petition sa Korte Suprema sang mga abogado halin sa Mindanao agud pauntaton ang impeachment proceedings batok kay Duterte.
Magluwas sa ila, nagpirma man sa petisyon sanday Atty.
Hillary Olga Reserva kag iban pa nga mga abogado halin sa Davao kag mga suppporters ni Duterte.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay House Deputy Majority Leader Iloilo 3rd District Representative Lorenz Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga indi maapektuhan ang preparasyon sang 11-man prosecution team sang Kamara para sa impeachment trial batok kay Duterte sa pihak sang gin-file nga petisyon sa Korte Suprema.
Suno kay Defensor nga isa sa prosecutors, legal ang impeachment process kag sakop ini sang constitutional bounds.
Ginpahayag sini nga ang impeachment batok sa bise presidente ang dapat nga desisyunan sang publiko kag sang Kongreso.
Ginpahayag man ni Defensor nga 100 sila nga kumpyansa sila sa validity sang proseso.
Ginpanindugan naman sini nga ang impeachment ang isa ka congressional function, kadungan sang pag-welcome sa judicial review.
Mayor Treñas, gin-athag nga wala sini ginabasol ang mga kandidato nahanungod sa nagalapta nga posters sa Diversion Road, Mandurriao, Iloilo City
Gin-athag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga wala sini ginabasol ang mga kandidato nahanungod sa ila mga posters nga nagalinapta sa Diversion Road, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Ini kasunod man sa pagpatigayon sang grand rally sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas sang kampo ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga suportado sini ang linyada sang senatorial bets sang administrasyon ni Pres.
Suno kay Treñas, gab-i mismo pagkatapos sang rally, gilayon nga nagpakig-angot ang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC) sa General Services Office (GSO) agud nga ipakakas ang mga posters sa areas nga indi dapat pagbutangan.
Gintuad man sini nga gin-ubra sang city government ang nagakaigo nga lihok pagkatapos sang rally.
Nagpanugyan man ang alcalde sa GSO nga padayunon ang pagkoordinar sa COMELEC agud mapatuman sang matalunsay nga pagsulundan sa syudad.
Mayor Treñas, nagdepensa sa akusasyon ni ex-Councilor Gerochi nga naubos ang pondo sang syudad sang natapos ang iya termino sang 2010
ILOILO CITY – Nanindugan si Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga wala sang kamatuoran ang pahayag ni former Iloilo City Councilor Atty.
R Leone ‘Boots’ Gerochi nga wala na sang bilin nga pondo ang syudad kag madamo sang utang sang natapos na ang iya termino.
Nahibaluan nga Hunyo 30, 2010 sang natapos na ang termino ni Treñas bilang alkalde kag Hulyo 1 sang amo man nga tuig nagbulos si anay Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga imposible nga masipot ang pondo sang syudad bangud nagabaton man sang sweldo ang mga konsehal sa tion sang Mabilog administration.
Sang amo nga tion suno sa natungdan, nagapungko pa si Gerochi bilang konsehal.
Suno sa alkalde, indi mahimo matandog ang pondo sang Iloilo City Government kun wala sang valid nga appropriations.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala siya nagapirma sang pondo kundi ang City Administrator kag City Treasurer.
Treñas, ginkwestyon ang pagdepensa ni Mabilog sa Double Dragon
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Gin-athag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga wala ini nagapamolitika sa iya pagpasugot sa renegotiation sa joint venture agreement para sa lloilo Ferry Terminal sa Parola Wharf sa tion sang Mabilog administration.
Ang kasugtanan nga ginpirmahan sang 2012 nanday former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog on behalf sa Iloilo City Government kag Ferdinand Sia, nga nagtiglawas sa duha ka korporasyon nga Double Dragon Properties Corporation (DDPC) kag corporation sa Parola.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga siya ang nagpangabudlay agud makuha ang duta sa Philippine Coast Guard sa Parola Wharf sa tion sang iya termino.
Suno kay Treñas, maathag nga ‘grossly disadvantageous’ sa bahin sang Iloilo City Government ang nasambit nga kasugtanan sang ini ang ginpirmahan sang 2012, apang wala na ini mahimo sadto bangud natapos na ang iya termino.
Nahibaluan nga nagpungko si Treñas bilang Representative sa Lone District sang Iloilo City sang 2010 kag nagbulos sa iya si Mabilog.
Isa sa mga nagapanguna nga concern sa nasambit nga isyu amo ang revenue share sang syudad sa terminal nga yara lang sa one percent sa gross terminal income ukon P200,868 kada tuig sa sulod sang 25 ka tuig.
Ginalantaw naman nga dehado diri ang syudad nga amo ang nagapanag-iya sang 10,687-square-meter nga duta sa diin nahamtang ang terminal.
Ang balor sang duta sang syudad ang nagtaas na halin sa P51.65 million sang 2012 kag nangin P183.35 million sang 2024, samtang ang commercial building nga gintukod sa terminal ang nagabalor sang P105.66 million.
Ginsaway man sang syudad ang pagpatuman sang kasugtanan sa rason nga kulang ini sa transparency sa diin wala nalakip sa proposal sang korporasyon ang pagtukod sang commercial buildings kag wala man sang master development plan nga requirement sa idalom sang joint venture agreement.
Natukiban man nga wala nagapasa ang korporasyon sang annual reports sa project operations, nga requirement man sa kasugtanan.
Mga Abogado sa Mindanao, ginkwestyon sa Korte Suprema ang impeachment process batok kay VP Sara Duterte
Nag-file sang petisyon sa Korte Suprema ang mga abogado halin sa Mindanao agud pauntaton ang impeachment proceedings batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Suno sa mga petisyoner, may yara sang pagpang-abuso sa gahom sang House of Representatives sa impeachment case batok sa bise presidente.
Ginakabig man sang mga abogado nga depektibo kag kwestyonable ang ginpasaka nga reklamo.
Samtang, gintalakay naman subong nga adlaw sang Korte Suprema sa ila en banc session ang isa pa ka separado nga petisyon nga nagahingyo sa Senado nga gilayon nga umpisahan ang impeachment trial.
Tulfo brothers, 3 ka iban pa nila nga himata, ginpasakaan sang disqualification case
Nagpasaka ang isa ka abogado sang disqualification case batok sa mag-utod nga senatorial candidates nga sanday ACT-CIS Rep.
Erwin Tulfo kag Ben Tulfo kag tatlo ka iban pa nila nga mga himata.
Virgilio Garcia ang igatugyan sa duha ka mga division sang poll body subong nga adlaw.
Magluwas kanday Ben kag Erwin, nahingadlan man sa disqualification petition sanday ACT-CIS Rep.
Ginsaad sang abogado ang political dynasty bilang ground sa iya petisyon.
Ginsiling sang petitioner nga ang lima ka respondents ang lunsay himata pa gid sang incumbent senator nga si Raffy Tulfo nga suno sa iya isa ka “anomalous monopolistic concentration of political power” sa isa ka pamilya nga nagalapas sa 1987 Constitution.
Ginmuno man sa reklamo ang citizenship issue sang kongresista nga si Erwin.
Matandaan nga ang Nobyembre 2022, gin-defer sang Commission on Appointments (CA) ang diskusyon sa appointment kay Erwin bilang tiglikom sang Department of Social Welfare and Development bangud sa isyu sa iya nga citizenship.
Kasunod sang hearing, gin-ako sang kongresista nga nangin isa siya ka American citizen sang 1988, apang ginpaathag sini nga nakuha sini liwat ang iya Filipino citizenship sadtong 2022 bilang parte sang requirements sa iya appointment bilang public official.
Nahibaluan nga ini nga kongresista ang kabahin sang senatoriables nga gina-endorso ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” R.
Mayor Treñas, ginsaysay nga manami sa balatyagon nga makatambong sa Regional Development Council kaupod si Pres.
Ginsaysay ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga manami sa balatyagon nga makatambong sa Regional Development Council (RDC) kaupod ang pinakamataas nga opisyal sang Pilipinas.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga lakip sa naistoryahan sa amo nga pagsinapol amo ang Panay-Guimaras-Negros Bridge, Panay River Basin project sa Capiz, Iloilo-Capiz Expressway kag pagpadayon sa konstruksyon sang Jalaur Mega Dam Project.
Suno kay Treñas, sa masobra 35 ka tuig nga pagserbisyo niya sa syudad, ini ang una nga kahigayonan nga nahatagan sang malawig nga tion agud nga maistoryahan ang mga proyekto kaupod ang presidente sang pungsod.
Ginpahayag man sini nga lakip sa naistoryahan amo ang power supply sa Western Visayas.
Nahibaluan nga Pebrero 13, 2025 sang nagpadulong sa Iloilo City si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
agud pangunahan ang grand rally sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas.
Punong Barangay sang Concepcion, City Proper, gin-ako nga siya mismo nagsugo-butang sang karatula nga nakasab-it sa wala matapos nga multipurpose gym
Gin-ako ni Punong Barangay Madonna Martin sang Barangay Concepcion, Iloilo City Proper nga siya mismo ang nagsugo nga magbutang sang karatula nga nakasab-it sa wala matapos nga multipurpose gym sang ila barangay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Martin, iya ginpahayag nga 2021 sang ginsugod tukod ang proyekto kon sa diin may tatlo ini ka panalgan.
Ginlaragway man sang pila ka mga residente ang proyekto nga daw kaangay nga bodega bangud wala matandog kag wala natapos-tapos.
Ginapahayag nga masobra duha na ka tuig nga wala nagamit ang multipurpose gym ilabi na kon may mga aktibidad kaangay sang sport events.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga intensyon lamang niya nga matutokan kag mahatagan sang igtalupangod ang proyekto ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-jam” Baronda.
Suno kay Martin, nagabalor sang P40 million ang amo nga proyekto.
Nagalaum man ini nga masabat ang ila concern agud nga matapos na ang multipurpose hall.
Ginaalegar pahayag ni Former Mayor Mabilog nga utang sang Iloilo City sa pagpatukod sang merkado, ginklaro ni Mayor Treñas
JV Mabilog nga Assistant Head sang Public Order and Safety Management Office may kaangtanan sa ginapasuni nagagwa nga misinformation.
Ini nahanungod sa ginpahayag ni Former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga utang sang syudad para sa pagkaayo sang mga public markets.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga gusto niya man lang man nga insakto ang mga impormasyon nga nagaguwa sa publiko.
Suno sa alkalde, bukas sa publiko ang mga dokumento sang syudad nga makapamatuod nga wala sang kamatuoran nga ₱3.3 billion ang gin-utang sang Iloilo City Government para lang sa merkado.
Para sa natungdan, indi manami nga magdala-dala sang kabutigan agud makabalik sa ambisyon sini nga makapungko sa Iloilo City Hall.
Gintumod man ni Treñas nga hayag sa publiko ang pag-utang, bidding, kag bisan ang dokumento nga nagapakita sang proseso sa pag-utang sang syudad kon may proyekto.
Nereo Lujan, nakatalana dagdagan sang warrant of arrest kaangot sa 3 counts sang cyber libel nga ginpasaka ni Mayor Treñas
Nereo Lujan may kaangtanan sa tatlo ka counts sang cyber libel nga ginpasaka ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang warrant of arrest ang nagaangot kay Lujan sa naguwa nga resolution sang Iloilo City Prosecutor’s Office kon sa diin, nakitaan nila sang malisya ang tatlo ka mga posts ni Lujan.
Suno kay Treñas, may intension si Lujan nga pakahuy-an siya paagi sa mga posts sini sa social media.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga nagdugang siya sang walo ka counts sang kapareho nga kaso batok sa Iloilo Public Information and Communications Affairs Office Head.
Gin-athag man ni Treñas nga wala gid siya kaagi nga nagpasaka sang kaso batok sa mga media apisar sang mga akusasyon batok sa iya.
Wala man sini ginakabig nga media si Lujan apang para sa iya, indi maayo nga representasyon sa media ang ginhimo ni Lujan.
Nahibaluan nga una na nga nagpasaka sang 12 counts sang cyber libel si Treñas batok kay Lujan, kon sa diin, sa subong nakitaan ang tatlo sang grounds agud padayunon ang kaso.
Sampaw-sampaw nga kaso batok kay Buenavista, Guimaras Mayor Samuel Gumarin, Vice Mayor Cyril Beltran, pila ka SB Members kag SK Fed., natigayon na mapasaka
Natigayon na nga mapasaka ni Buenavista, Guimaras Sanguniang Bayan Member Vincent De Asis ang complaints sa Office of the Ombudsman batok sa ila alkalde nga si Mayor Samuel Gumarin.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay SB Member De Asis, iya ginpahayag nga kinahanglan nga mapasabat ang Local Government Unit (LGU) sang Buenavista ang pagbakal sang 2nd hand nga 20,000 liters water tanker truck nga nagabalor sang P2.5 million apisar nga wala na sang El Niño.
Pebrero 15, 2025 sang nabaton sini ang order sang Office of the Ombudsman nga sa sulod sang pulo ka adlaw, gina-recquire ang mga respondents nga magpasa sang ila nga counter affidavit.
Nakit-an man sang amo nga talatapan nga ang complaints ang may grounds batok kay Gumarin, Vice Mayor Beltran, kag pila ka Sangguniang Bayan Members sang Buenavista, Guimaras.
Gintuad man ni De Asis nga wala na sang rason kontani agud nga magkuha sang dugang nga water tanker bangud nga may yara naman sang water tanker ang ila nga banwa.
Nagapati man si De Asis nga may kakulangan ang pagdumala sang alkalde bangud wala ini nag-agi na insakto nga proseso ilabi na ang paggamit sang calamity fund.
COMELEC 6, ginpasangkad ang pagbantay sa online vote buying
Nagpasalig ang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Region 6 sang mas mabaskog nga pagbantay sa ‘vote buying’ kaangot man sa nagahilapit nga 2025 midterm elections.
Dennis Ausan, Regional Director sang COMELEC 6, iya ginpahayag nga ginaplano sang talatapan nga maglunsar sang Committee on Kontra Bigay nga magaserbe nga government approach agud makakoordinar sa pila ka ahensya sang gobyerno sa pagkampanya sang ginadumilian nga pagpamakal sang boto.
Suno kay Ausan, kinahanglan sang partisipasyon sang law enforcement agencies batok sa vote buying kon sa diin, lakip diri ang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), Department of Justice (DOJ), Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT), kag iban pa.
Ginpasangkad man sang COMELEC ang pagbantay sa online vote buying bangud mas lapnagon ini sa subong nga tyempo.
Nagpakig-angot man ang talatapan sa mga online money banking agud nga mapasiguro nga wala sang makalusot sa pagbaligya sang boto.
sa impeachment complaint ni VP Sara Duterte, isa lamang ka pagpakita sang impression suno sa public law expert
Gintuad sang isa ka public law expert nga mahimo nga isa lamang ka pamaagi agud nga mapakita ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kag sang iya anak nga si Ilocos Norte 1st District Representative Sandro Marcos nga may lain sila nga pagpati sa impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Marcos sa impeachment complaint apisar, nga isa ang iya anak sa una nga nagpirma sa amo nga tikang.
Horace Anthony Panes, Bombo Abogado, iya ginpahayag nga ang mag-amay nga Marcos ang nagahimo sang palaagyan agud nga makahimo sang impression sa publiko nga sila ang may ‘independent beliefs’.
Suno kay Panes, apisar sang may gahum ang presidente nga magpatawag sang special session sa senado agud istoryahan ang impeachment complaint, mahimo sa gihapon nga maistoryahan ini kon maga-resume ang session sa Hunyo 2, 2025.
Ginpahayag man sini nga posible man makapatigayon sang session ang nabilin nga 12 ka senador antes magsugod ang 20th congress.
Apang kon indi naman makaabot, mahimo ini i-file liwat agud mabutang sa agenda kag maka-session kaupod ang bag-o nga mga senador.
Marcos, nagbalos sa ‘joke’ ni Duterte nga patyon ang mga senador
Nagbalos si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
sa pahayag ni former President Rodrigo Duterte nga pangpatyon ang 15 ka mga senador para nga may bakante nga mga posisyon para sa mga kandidato sang Partido Demokratiko Pilipino (PDP)-Laban.
Ang sabat ni Marcos ang natabo kadungan sang rally sang Alyansa Para sa Bagong Pilipinas senatorial slate sa Davao Del Norte nga baluwarte mismo sang mga Duterte.
Suno kay Marcos, daw kaangay nga nahadlok ang iban nga partido kun makit-an ang Alyansa sang administrasyon bangud lain-lain na ang ila ginapanghambal.
Mabudlay suno sa chief executive bangud may iban nga mga tawo nga ang isahanon nga solusyon nga nakita sa mga problema amo nga magpatay sang tawo.
“Nakikita natin ang ibang partido… nagugulat sila, natatakot yata sila sa inyo dahil pag nakita ang line-up ng Alyansa ay kung anu-ano na ang sinasabi,” suno sa presidente.
“Narinig lang natin nung isang araw, wala daw pag-asa siguro… wala silang pag-asa kaya papatay na lang sila ng 15 senador.
Sabagay, mahirap naman ang ibang tao, ang iniisip lang nila ang kaisa-isang solusyon sa lahat ng problema ay pumatay pa ng Pilipino.
Wala direkta nga ginhambal ni Marcos ang pangalan ni former President Duterte, apang kun balikan, ang anay punong ehekutibo amo ang nag-lahog sa rally sang senatorial slate sang PDP sang nagligad nga Huwebes nga kun makapatay sila sang 15 ka mga senador, sulod na ang tanan nga kandidato nga iya gina-endorso.
Bisan nga ginsiling nga “joke” lamang ini sang former president, may iban nga nagbwelta kag nagsabat nga pwede ini makasuhan bangud sa pagpamahog.
Sa iya speech sa Davao, liwat nga ginsulit ni Marcos ang kaundan man sang iya speech sa Laoag, Ilocos Norte kag sa Iloilo City kun sa diin nagpabati-bati ini nga ang iya mga senatorial candidates ang wala sang involvement sa extrajudicial killings kag kurapsyon sang tion sang COVID-19 pandemic.
Ginsulit man sini nga indi sila pro-China kag wala man sila nagapabor sa Philippine Offshore Gaming Operators ukon POGO.
“Ngunit maiintindihan mo rin dahil kung ako nga ay nasa kabilang partido at itong mga ito ang kaharap natin, sasabihin ko, mahirap na kampanya ito dahil mabigat ang kalaban.
Dahil kung kikilatisin natin sila isa-isa, napakatingkad po ng mga record nila, napakaganda ng kanilang mga naging performance sa kanilang iba’t-ibang inupuang mga posisyon sa pamahalaan,” dayaw ni Marcos sa iya nga mga kaalyado.#
COMELEC, nakaimprinta na sang halos 30 million ka mga balota para sa May 2025 national and local elections
Naglab-ot na sa halos 30 million ka mga balota ang naimprinta sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) para sa May 2025 national and local elections.
Suno kay Comelec chairman George Garcia, may masobra 72 million ka mga balota nga i-print ang poll body paagi sa National Printing Office (NPO).
Sa 72 million [mga balota nga kinahanglanon sa pag-imprinta], sa karon nakaimprinta na sang halos 30 million.
Nagarepresentar ini sang 41% sang kabug-usan nga balota nga kinahanglan nga maimprinta para sa bug-os nga Pilipinas.
Apang, ang numero sang verified ballots tubtob subong yara sa 5.5 million tubtob 6 million lamang suno kay Garcia.
Nakalab-ot man sa 5.5 million tubtob 6 million [mga balota] ang na-verify tubtob subong.
Suno kay Garcia, kaangay sang kuwarta, ang isa ka balota mahimo nga may mga sayop nga natabo sa proseso sang pag-imprinta.
Indi tanan nga balota nga gin-imprinta perpekto nga daw kaangay sang kuwarta nga ginaimprinta, may yara gid sang error.
Ini mahimo nga nautod, ukon may error sa color, ukon may mantsa.
Ini ang rason suno kay Garcia kun ngaa may mga rejected nga balota.
Nagalab-ot sa 7 tubtub 8% ang mga rejected ukon depektibo nga mga balota, kon sa diin, indi mataas; kag makabig sang talatapan nga manubo.
Apang, sa tagsa ka gina-reject nga balota, ang isa ka bag-o nga balota kinahanglan nga i-imprinta liwat agud magbuslan.
Ipaidalom man sa manual kag machine verification ang reprinted nga mga balota.
Councilor Cabaluna, gin-athag nga wala sang pamulitika sa ginpatuman nga imbestigasyon sa joint venture agreement sa Guimaras Iloilo Ferry Terminal (GIFT) Project
Ginklaro sang Committee on Transportation sang Iloilo City Council nga wala sang lamod sang pulitika ang ginpatuman nga imbestigasyon sa joint venture agreement sang city government kag Double Dragon Properties Corporation kaangot sa Guimaras Iloilo Ferry Terminal (GIFT) Project.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay City Councilor Sedfrey Cabaluna, Chairman sang Committee on Transportation sang City Council, iya ginpahayag nga natukiban sa imbestigasyon sang komitiba nga nadala sa exclusivity sang joint venture agreement nga indi mahimo nga dungkaan ang wharf tubtob sa bahin sang Ortiz, City Proper.
Suno kay Cabaluna, indi man fair kag enough ang share nga mabaton sang syudad sa amo nga agreement.
Ginpahayag man sini nga indi lang man siya ang naghambal nga ‘disadvantageous’ ang tikang kundi pati man ang kabug-usan sang komitiba.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga wala nadala ang anay administrasyon ni Former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sa imbestigasyon kag kontrata lamang sang joint venture ang ginapadalman.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kinahanglan i-renegotiate ang agreement bangud tuman ka disbentaha sa bahin sa city government.
Ang letter sang renegotiation ang mangin epektibo 60 days sugod mabaton sang City Legal Office kag Double Dragon Properties Corp.
Nahibaluan nga halos duha ka tuig matapos gin-umpisahan ang pagrepaso liwat sang Joint Venture Agreement (JVA) para sa Guimaras-Iloilo Ferry Terminal Services (GIFTS) sa Parola Wharf.
Ginpirmahan sang 2012 sa panahon sang administrasyon sadto ni Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog, ginhatagan ang Double Dragon Properties Corp sang eksklusibo nga 25 ka tuig nga kinamatarong sa pagdevelop kag pag-operate sang 13,000-square-meter terminal complex.
Ang Joint Venture ang nagahatag sa Double Dragon sang 25 year exclusive rights sa pagkolekta sang terminal, berthing and cargo fees, kag ang pagparenta sang mga commercial spaces sa terminal complex.
Sa idalom sang JVA, ang bahin sang syudad naglakip sang 1-5% sang kita sa gross terminal fee, 1% sang gross berthing fee revenues, 1% sang gross cargo fee revenues, kag 1% sang gross rental revenue (wala labot ang VAT).
Miagao, Iloilo Vice Mayor Macario Napulan, ginkakibot ang pagpa-demolish ni Mayor Richard Garin sang Municipal Stage kag Basketball Court sang Miagao
Gin-ako ni Miagao, Iloilo Vice Mayor Macario Napulan nga iya ginkakibot nga gina-demolish na ang pila ka parte sang Municipal Stage kag Basketball Court sang Miagao.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Vice Mayor Napulan, iya ginpahayag nga ang tikang ang isa ka demolisyon sa historical kag cultural identity sang banwa sang Miagao.
Suno kay Napulan, sang ginpadulongan sini ang lugar, gina-jack hammer na ang mga bleachers sini.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang entablado nangin hipos nga saksi sang pinakaimportante nga mga hilikuton nga nagpadalom sang paghiusa kag pag-abyanay sang mga tawo gikan sa nagkalainlain nga relihiyoso nga pagpati kag politikal nga mga ideolohiya.
Gintuad man sang natungdan nga wala siya nakahibalo lakip na ang municipal council sa amo nga tikang nga ginaduso sang administrasyon ni Mayor Engr.
Ginbuyagyag man sini nga wala sang public hearing nga ginpatuman ang munisipyo antes ginduso ang demolition job.
Gintuad man ni Napulan nga sang nagligad nga tuig nag-request si Mayor Garin nga i-redesign ang plaza lakip na ang munisipyo nga nagabalor P3 million kada area.
Para kay Napulan, pabor siya sa development apang, indi lang paggub-on ang kabilogan sang structure agud mapabilin ang cultural identity sang tagsa ka Miagawanons.
Nagapanindugan naman si Miagao, Iloilo Mayor Richard Garin nga wala sang ginalapas ang munisipyo sang Miagao sa patag sang cultural heritage kaangot sa pagpatukod sang Municipal Stage kag Basketball Court sa amo nga banwa.
Ini kasunod man sang pagpabutyag sang pagkadismaya ni Vice Mayor Macario Napulan sa amo nga proyekto.
Suno Mayor Garin, kinahanglan anay mahibaluan ni Napulan ang insakto nga cultural heritage.
Suno kay Garin, atop lang ang gindugang kag wala ini nalakip sa cultural landmark sang banwa.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala gintandog ang stage sang munisipyo kag kon maigo ini sang roofing sang basketball court, mahimo nga i-transfer ini.
Ginpatpat man ni Garin nga ang cultural property sang banwa ang ginalakipan sang duha ka Spanish Era canyon, ang Rizal monument, ang Britanico Cultural Hall, Historical books, mga hablon sang banwa kag lakip na ang Municipal plaza.
Indi man magpati ang natungdan nga wala nakahibalo si Vice Mayor Napulan sa ila proyekto bangud sang tinalikdan pa nga tuig ini gina-istoryahan.
Ginklaro man ni Garin nga wala sang pagpangguba nga himuon sa mga istruktura kag lunsay isaylo lamang.
Pabor man ang alkalde sa nangin pahayag ni Napulan nga indi pagtugutan ang isa ka tawo nga wala makahangop sang existence sang mga Miagawanon nga panason ang mismo identity nga ginbilin sang mga katigulangan.
Iloilo CDRRMO, ginpaathag kon ngaa wala nakuhaan sang aerial shot ang 35,000 nga crowd sang grand rally sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas sa Mandurriao
Ginpaathag sang City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (CDRRMO) kon ngaa wala makuhaan sang laragway ang masobra 35,000 ka mga crowd nga nagtambong sa grand rally sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas sa Gaisano Iloilo City Center sa Benigno Aquino Ave., Diversion Road, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Darwin Papa, Operation Officer sang Iloilo City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (CDRRMO), iya ginpahayag nga wala nakuhaan sang aerial shot ang nasambit nga crowd bangud gin-abisohan sila nga indi na lang magpalupad sang mataas sa drone bangud sa mga tent nga dalagko.
Suno kay Papa, mas madamo pa ang mga indibidwal nga wala bangud covered sila sang mga tent.
Gin-athag man sini nga sa inisyal nga isip nga 20,000 nga crowd ang wala pa sa peak antes nag-alas-singko sa hapon sa amo nga adlaw.
Na-record naman sang talatapan ang isa ka untoward incident sa crowd.
Gin-ako man sang natungdan nga indi matumod sang talatapan ang ‘specific’ nga numero sang tawo kag isa lamang ka ‘rough estimate’ ang ila ginpatuman.
Ginalantaw man sang Iloilo City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office nga mahimo magsobra pa sa 35,000 ang tawo nga nagpadulong sa Benigno Aquino Ave., Diversion Road, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Malacañang, nagpamalibad nga magkomento sa pinakaulihi nga pagpakamalaot ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte batok kay President Bong-bong Marcos, Jr
Nagpamalibad ang Malacañang nga maghatag sang komento sa pinakaulihi nga mga tirade ukon palabtik nga ginhimo ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte batok sa administrasyon ni President Ferdinand “Bong-bong” Marcos, Jr.
Ini kasunod man sa pagpangayo sang katapo sang media sa palasyo sang komento halin Presidential Communications Office (PCO) sa pinakaulihi nga pahayag ni Duterte, partikular ang iya sentimyento sa mataas nga presyo sang bugas.
Liwat man nga gin-swipe ni Duterte si Presidente Marcos Jr., liwat nga gin-akusahan ang chief executive nga nagagamit sang iligal nga droga.
Ginhimo ni Duterte ang mga tirades sa iya pagtambong sa proclamation rally sang Partido Demokratiko Pilipino (PDP) Laban sa Club Filipino, sa diin ginbayaw niya ang mga kamot sang iya mga gina-endorso sa opening salvo sang ila kampanya.
Suno kay Duterte, si Marcos isa ka Presidente nga high sa droga kag indi siya buang pero long-term ang epekto sa droga.
Gintumod man sini nga mabuang si Marcos sa dalayon nga paggamit sang heroin kag alab-ot niya ang 80 pero pag-abot sina nga tion, indi na siya makahulag.
Sang Enero 2024, gintawag man ni Duterte si Marcos nga “bangag,” kag ginbawi ini sang masunod nga bulan, nga nagasiling nga wala gid niya gin-akusahan si Marcos nga naga-intra sa ilegal nga droga.
Sang ginpamangkot kon ano ang reaksyon ni Marcos, siya nagsiling, nga anay presidente ang nagagamit sang fentanyl.
Suno kay Marcos, ang mga manugbulong ukon physicians ang dapat mag-atipan sa kay Duterte.
Ex-President Rodrigo Duterte: Patayin natin ‘yun mga senador ngayon para mabakante
Sa pihak sang ginapangatubang nga reklamo nga grave threat sang iya anak nga si Vice President Sara Duterte batok kay President Ferdinand R.
Marcos Jr., wala sang kahadlok nga ginpahayag ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte nga mas maayo nga ipapatay ang mga senador nga mabaskog sa survey.
Ini agud makapungko suno sa natungdan ang mga PDP-Laban candidates sa Senado sa eleksyon subong nga tuig.
Ginpahayag ini sang anay Presidente kadungan sang proclamation rally sang PDP-Laban senatorial slate sa Club Filipino, San Juan City kagab-i, Pebrero 13.
Sang amo nga tion, yara man ang kaalyado sini nga si incumbent No.
“Ngayon, marami kasi sila, ano ang dapat gawin natin?
Eh ‘di patayin natin ‘yun mga senador ngayon para mabakante (ang top slots sa senatorial standing).
Kung makapatay tayo ng mga 15 senador, eh ‘di pasok na tayong lahat.”
Ang nasambit nga pahayag ang natabo isa ka adlaw matapos ginrekomendar sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) ang pagpasaka sang kaso nga grave threat kag inciting to sedition sa Department of Justice (DOJ) bangud sa “kill threat” sang iya anak batok kanday President Ferdinand R.
Marcos Jr., First Lady Liza Araneta-Marcos, kag House Speaker Ferdinand Martin Romualdez sang Nobyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
Talking of opportunities, the only way to do it to pasabugin na lang natin ‘yang ano.”
Ang anay Presidente, kaupod ang duha pa ka mga kandidato sa pagka-senador sang PDP-Laban nga sanday Senators Ronald ‘Bato’ dela Rosa kag Christopher ‘Bong’ Go ang sa subong, gina-imbestigaran sang International Criminal Court (ICC) bangud sa crimes against humanity kaangot sa pagpatay sang masobra 6,000 nga ginadudahan drug personalities sa tion sang Duterte administration.
Ping Lacson, padayunon ang pagbantay sa ‘kaban ng bayan’ kon makabalik sa Senado
Padayunon ni former Senator Panfilo “Ping” Lason ang iya pagbantay sa ‘kaban ng bayan’ kon siya ang mangin mapalaron sa 2025 midterm elections.
Ini ang iya ginpayag matapos ang grand rally sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas sa Gaisano Iloilo City Center sa Benigno Aquino Ave., Diversion Road, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Lacson, iya ginpahayag nga indi sini luyag ang korapsyon partikular sa national budget.
Suno kay Lacson, iya na-obserbahan sa national budget sa nakaligad nga walo ka tuig, sugod sang 2016 tubtob 2023, ang ‘unused appropriation’ ang yara sa average nga P350 billion kada tuig.
Nakita man sini nga ang mga insertions nga nahimo sang mga legislators ang wala sang konsultasyon kaupod ang implementing agencies.
Nagapati man ang natungdan nga madamo pa siya sang sarang nga mahimo sa Iloilo ilabi na sa pag-download sang resources sang national government sa tagsa ka local government agud mapatuman ang local development plan.
Manny Pacquiao, plano nga iduso ang maayo nga economic enterprise sang pungsod kon makabalik bilang senador
Ginaplano ni senatorial candidate Manny Pacquiao nga iduso ang maayo nga economic enterprise sang pungsod kon makapungko siya balik bilang senador.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay former senator Pacquiao, iya ginpahayag nga tutokan sini ang economic enterprise sang pungsod agud mapabaskog ang Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) bangud para sa iya, importante nga may palangitan-an ang mga Pilipino.
Suno kay Pacquiao, napili sini ang amo nga plataporma bangud naagyan sini ang tuman ka pigado nga pagpangabuhi ilabi na kon wala sang palangitan-an.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kon matigayon matuman ang plano, magaserbe ini nga source of income para sa tagsa ka pamilyang Pilipino.
Nagapati man ang natungdan nga isa ka paagi ang tikang agud nga masustener ang livelihood sang mga Pinoy nga mahimo mapuslan man sang masunod pa nga henerasyon.
Nahibaluan nga si Pacquiao ang nagpapili sa pagka-presidente sang 2022 kon sa diin, nagtapos ini sa ika-tatlo nga pwesto kag nakakuha sang 3.6 million nga boto.
Supporters sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas, nagapati nga may maayo nga plataporma ang mga gina-endorso nila nga senador
Nagapati ang isa ka supporter sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas nga may maayo nga plataporma ang mga gina-endorso nila nga mga senatorial candidate.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ergie Tabaguera, isa sa mga taga-suporta sang nasambit nga grupo, iya ginpahayag nga temprano pa siya naghimos agud nga makapadulong sa Gaisano Iloilo City Center sa Benigno Aquino Ave., Diversion Road, Mandurriao, Iloilo City.
Suno kay Tabaguera, tuman ka importante nga mabatian ang ila plano para sa pungsod agud makapanghinun-anon ang mga botante sa ila botohon.
Ginpahayag man sini nga sadto pa lang, loyalista na sang pamilya Marcos ang iya amay kag iloy kon sa diin, ginsundan man sini ang amo nga tikang.
Nagalaum man ang natungdan nga matuman sang mga kandidato ang ila promisa sa pumuluyo.
Nahibaluan nga naghalin pa sa Barotac Viejo, Iloilo ang natungdan kag isa sa 60 ka indibidwal sa tagsa ka barangay nga nagpadulong sa kahiwatan.
PNP, ginpasigurado ang masangkad nga seguridad sang grand rally sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas sa Iloilo City
Ginpasigurado sang Philippine National Police (PNP) ang seguridad sa grand rally sang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas kag sang mga senatoriables nga gina-endorso sang administrasyon ni Pres.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Captain Val Cambel, hepe sang Iloilo City Police Station (ICPS) 10, iya ginpahayag nga may screening area antes magsulod sa venue agud masiguro nga filtered kag wala sang kontrabando ukon iban pa nga mga ginadumulian nga pagkabutang sa amo nga kahiwatan.
Suno kay Cambel, kahapon pa lang nga adlaw, may ginpatuman na sila nga security measures kon sa diin, may nagakaigo nga numero sang mga kapulisan ang ipahamtang sa pila porsyon sang syudad.
Ginpasiguro man si Cambel nga ma-implementar sang maayo ang traffic regulation kasunod sang ila pagkoordinar sa Iloilo City Traffic Management Unit (ICTMU).
Willie Ong, nag-withdraw sa pagpadalagan bilang Senador
Nag-withdraw na sang iya kandidatura sa pagka-Senador si Dr.
Sa iya Facebook post, ginpahayag sini nga luyag sini nga tutukan ang iya ikaayong lawas.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa mga nagsuporta kag nagpangamuyo sa iya.
Panelo, ginapabalik sa law school ang NBI director kasunod sang pag-file sang kaso vs Sara
Nasuya si former Presidential Chief Legal Counsel Salvador Panelo sa ginhimo sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) nga pagpasaka sang kaso batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Suno kay Panelo, dapat magbalik sa law school si NBI Director Jaime Santiago bangud wala man sang basehan sa kamatuoran kag sa layi ang ila complaint batok kay Sara.
May lamod-pamulitika ang tikang sang NBI suno kay Panelo, kag isa man ka demolition job para nga indi makadayon si Sara sa presidential race sa 2028.
Dugang sini, uyang lang sa kuwarta sang taxpayers ang criminal complaints batok kay Sara.
Dapat suno sa iya nga magtutok na lang ang NBI sa pagpauntat sa mga criminal sa paghimo sang dugang nga krimen.
Nag-ugat ang reklamo sa online press conference ni Sara sang kaagahon sang nagligad nga tuig.
Tuman ang kaakig sini kag may statement nga nagsiling nga naka-kontak na siya sang tawo nga magpatay kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., First Lady Lisa Araneta-Marcos kag House Speaker Martin Romualdez pananglitan may yara man sang magpatay sa iya.
Pila ka beses nga ginpatawag si Sara agud magpaathag apang wala ini nagsipot matapos ginpahibalo sang iya abogado nga pwede man siya makapadala lang sang counter affidavit.
Kasunod sang pag-file sang complaint, ipaidalom na ini sa evaluation kag preliminary investigation sa National Prosecution Service kag kun makitaan sang probable cause, ipasaka ini sa korte para sa trial.
Marcos, nagpahanumdom sa mga alkalde nga unahon gid ang serbisyo-publiko
sa mga municipal mayors nga himuon gid nga prayoridad ang serbisyo-publiko bisan pa sa tunga sang away sa pulitika samtang nagahilapit ang 2025 midterm elections.
Sang Pebrero 11 nag-umpisa ang campaign period para sa mga senador kag sa party-lists, apang sa Marso 28 pa magasugod ang kampanya para sa magapadalagan sa local positions lakip na ang sa pagka-gobernador kag sa pagka-alkalde.
Sa general assembly sang League of Municipalities of the Philippines (LMP), ginpahayag ni Marcos nga ang rason kun ngaa nagapungko sa pwesto amo nga buligan ang mga tawo.
Bisan mainit ang away kag makahang ang mga tinaga nga nagakawas sa bibig, dapat dumdumon sang pulitiko suno kay Marcos nga ang puno kag punta sini tanan amo nga mabuligan ang mga Pilipino.
“Sa init ng kampanya, sa init ng halalan, huwag natin kakalimutan na tayo ay nandito, tayo ay pumasok sa serbisyo na publiko upang tulungan ang taumbayan,” pahayag sini.
“Kahit na mainit na nga ang laban, maanghang na ang mga binibitawan na salita, sa puno’t dulo nito ginagawa natin lahat ito para makatulong sa ating minamahal na kapwa Pilipino.”
Naghaylo man ini sa local chief executives nga tapuson na ang garot kag tugutan ang kada partido nga magbulig sa nasyon kun matapos na ang eleksyon.
“Pagkatapos ng halalan, alam ko kung minsan napakahirap na magpalamig ng ulo ulit,” suno pa sa presidente.
“Ngunit kailangan nating gawin yun dahil kailangan natin ang lahat na mga gustong tumulong na magkapit bisig upang magtulungan.”
Sang Martes, ginsuguran ang kampanya sang Alyansa Para sa Bagong Pilipinas senatorial slate sa Ilocos Norte kun sa diin ang chief executive mismo ang nagpanguna.
Nagpalagtik pa ini sang istorya nga wala sang mga kandidato ang administrasyon nga naakusahan sang human rights violations sa idalom sang drug war kag wala man sang naakusahan sang corruption and negligence sang tion nga may pandemic.
Si former President Rodrigo Duterte ang nagapungko sang tion nga may pandemya.
“Pwede magpatuloy yun ng sabay, pwedeng mauna, pwedeng masunod.
Wala siyang bearing sa impeachment proceedings na isasagawa ng Senado,” he added.
Uniteam no more: NBI, ginrekomendar ang pagpasaka sang kaso VP Sara bangud sa pamahog nga patyon si Pres.
Ginrekomendar sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) ang pagpasaka sang kaso nga grave threats kag inciting to sedition batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ini ang kaangot sa iya pamahog nga kun may matabo sa iya may ginsugo na siya nga ipapatay sanday President Ferdinand ‘Bongbong’ Marcos, Jr., First Lady Liza Araneta-Marcos, kag House Speaker Ferdinand Martin Romualdez.
Suno kay NBI Director Jaime Santiago, napasa na ang nasambit nga reklamo sa Department of Justice (DOJ).
Matandaan nga ginpa-subpoena sang NBI ang bise presidente agud pangayuan sang paathag sa mga nangin pamahog sini.
Sa press briefing sang Pebrero 7, ginpanginwala naman ni Duterte nga nagbuya siya sang pahayag nga ipapatay sini si President Marcos.
Suno kay Duterte, wala ini nakadumdom nga nagpagwa ini sang pahayag nga patyon sini ang presidente.
Ginpahayag sini nga ang administrasyon lang ang nagahambal nga may may assassination, assassin, kag gunman.
Ini ang baliskad naman sa ginhambal sini sang Nobyembre 23, 2024 sa diin gin-ako sini sa isa ka video nga may gin-hire ini nga gunman agud magpatay sa Presidente, First Lady kag House Speaker.
Isa ka residente sang Cabatuan, Iloilo, gin-akusaran si Mayor Pueyo kag Vice Mayor Caspe nga sa likod sang quarry sa Tigum River
Gin-akusaran sang isa ka pomuluyo sang Cabatuan, Iloilo sanday Mayor Elizalde G.
Caspe nga sila ang sa likod sang ginapatuman nga quarry sa Tigum River, Brgy.
Ang nag-akusar amo si Maria Fe Cabucos kon sa diin, gina-claim sang sini nga siya ang nagapanag-iya sang duta kag isa ini ka pribado.
Ginpaandaman man sini ang mga opisyal nga magapasaka sang kaso batok sa ila.
Nagpadulong man ini sa kapulisan agud magpalab-ot sang iya concern apang wala sang isa ka minuto, naghalin man ini.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Pueyo, iya ginpahayag nga may ginakaptan sila nga gratuitous permit nga nagapahanugot man sa banwa nga magpatuman sang quarry sa amo nga lugar.
Nagpanindugan man ang natungdan nga nag-agi sa legal nga proseso ang pagpahanugot sa sand and gravel quarrying sa Tigum River.
Ginbuyagyag man sini nga indi na bag-o ang alegasyon ni Cabucos bangud 2021 pa sang nagsugod ini reklamo apang tubtob subong, wala sa gihapon napamatud-an.
COMELEC Iloilo City, nagpanugyan sa mga barangay officials nga magpabilin nga non-partisan sa 2025 midterm elections
Nagpahanumdom ang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Iloilo City sa mga barangay officials nga dapat magpabilin nga non-partisan ukon indi maghilabot sa 2025 midterm elections.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang Iloilo City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga ang madakpan nga nagabulig pangtakod sang mga tarpaulins sang kandidato ang mahimo pasakaan sang nagakaigo nga kaso.
Lakip na diri ang paglapas sa Republic Act No.
Suno kay Sayno, kon mapamatud-an nga naglapas ang isa ka barangay official, mahimo ini dagdagan sang perpetual disqualification to hold a public office.
Antes magsugod ang local campaign period, hatagan sang 72 hours ang tagsa ka barangay agud kakson ang mga tarpaulins nga nakaspaskil sa ila tagsa ka barangay hall.
Dugang pa ni Sayno nga ang tanan nga tarpaulins nga wala sa designated area ang ginakabig nga iligal.
PPCRV, nagapanawagan sang responsable nga pagboto sa May 12, 2025 elections
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Nagalaom ang Parish Pastoral Council for Responsible Voting (PPCRV) nga mangin dako nga bulig ang voters education module agud magiyahan ang publiko sa responsable nga pagboto sa May 12, 2025 elections.
Meliton Oso, Director sang Jaro Archdiocesan Social Action Center (JASAC), iya ginpahayag nga katuyuan sang voter’s education module sang PPCRV amo nga ipalab-ot sa tanan ilabi na sa mga volunteers sang organisasyon ang mga padayon nga tikang nga ginahimo sang simbahan sa piniliay sa pungsod.
Suno kay Oso, matapos ang paglunsyar sang voters education module, magapatigayon man sila sang serye sang training agud mapakigbahin sa mga volunteers ang mga ihibalo nga dapat sundon sa pagbantay sa proseso sang eleksyon.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga katuyuan man sang voters education module nga magserbe nga giya sa paghanas sang mga kabataan sa importansya sang demokrasya kag eleksyon.
Nagalaom man ang natungdan nga magpili ang publiko sang mga kandidato nga may matuod nga pag-ulikid sa pungsod kag indi lang para sa personal nga interes.
Pagpangbaklas sang campaign materials nga nagalapas sa pagsulundan, ginsuguran na sang COMELEC
Gin-umpisahan ang Oplan Baklas sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Iloilo City ang pagpangbaklas sang mga campaign paraphernalia kadungan sang pagsugod sang national campaign period.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang Iloilo City COMELEC, iya ginpahayag nga nagsugod sila pangbaklas sa atubang sang Iloilo Provincial Capitol kag nagderetso sa bahin sang Jaro Plaza.
Suno kay Sayno, lunsay national nga tarpaulins ang nakuha amo kanday Camille Villar, Sen.
Imee Marcos, Uswag Ilonggo Partylist, kag iban pa nga national candidates.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kalabanan sa nakuha nga tarpaulins ang wala sang ‘paid for by’ nga pangalan nga isa ka bayolasyon sa pagsulundan sang COMELEC.
Gin-athag man sini nga nakuha nga campaign materials ang mangin inventory kag i-report national nga COMELEC agud makuha ukon maturn-over.
Ginklaro man sang natungdan nga ang paglapas sa guidelines sang mga tarpaulins ang mahimo man mangin grounds for disqualification sa pagpadalagan sa public office.
Complainant sang criminal cases batok kay Zarraga Vice Mayor Remia Sularan, nagapati nga may mabug-at sila nga ebidensya
Nagapati ang complainant sang criminal cases batok kay Zarraga Vice Mayor Remia M.
Sularan nga may mabug-at sila nga ebidensya agud nga mapasabat ang bise-alkalde sa gin-alegar nga falsification sang mga public documents agud mag-claim sang travel expenses.
Sularan, isa ka job hire employee sang Zarraga Municipal Hall pinaagi sa iya counsel nga si Atty.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joel Sularan, iya ginpahayag nga confident siya sa tikang nga iya ginahimo ilabi na sa pagsumiter niya sang liquidation reports nga nagasiling nga nagtambong ang bise-alcalde sa 1st Luzon Wide Cooperative Development Officers Conference sa Venus Parkview Hotel sa Baguio City halin sang Septyembre 17-20, 2024.
Suno kay Sularan, nakabaton si Vice Mayor Remia Sularan sang P6,143.00 para sa ticket sa eroplano sang Setyembre 3 kag dugang nga P10,380.00 para sa travel expenses sang Setyembre 5.
Apang, nagapakita sa opisyal nga rekord nga si Sularan yara sa Zarraga sang Setyembre 18, 2024, sa diin nagpanguna siya sa isa ka Regular Session sang Sangguniang Bayan.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga ang ebidensya nga ginpresentar sa pagsuporta sa akusasyon nagalakip sang pila ka mga key pieces sang documentation.
Ini ang mga Obligation Requests para sang mga cash advance, may kaangtanan sa mga gasto sa pagbiyahe para sa conference.
Dugang pa, ang mga Liquidation Reports nga may mga ‘falsified’ nga supporting documents, pareho sang mga ticket sa eroplano, mga boarding pass, certificate of appearance, travel orders, kag mga iteneraries, ang ginsumiter.
Nahibaluan nga ang kaso ginpasaka sa idalom sang Article 217 in relation to Article 171 kag 48 sang Revised Penal Code, nga nagasakop sang malversation public funds paagi sa falsification sang mga public documents.
Mayor Treñas, nagapati nga may bug-at nga balasehan ang Kamara kag Senado agud nga i-impeach si VP Sara Duterte
Nagapati si Mayor Jerry Treñas nga may bug-at nga balasehan ang House of Representatives kag Senado agud nga i-impeach si Vice President Sara Duterte.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga bilang isa ka abogado, kon may nakita nga grounds ang Senado kag Kamara, mangin palaagyan ini agud matigayon ang impeachment complaint.
Suno kay Treñas, kon hinali nga magapatawag sang mando si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., base sa mandate man sang konstituyson, mahimo nga sundon gid ini sang Kamara kag Senado.
Para sa alkalde, kinahanglan nga makalatag sang mga ebidensya si VP Duterte agud nga madepensa sini ang iya kaugalingon kon wala gidman siya sang kapaltahan sa akusasyon nga ginabato sa iya.
Ginalantaw man sini nga kon magpatawag si Marcos sang special session agud mag-aprubar sang isa ka bill nga nagatumod sa impeachment ni Duterte, mahimo nga matigayon gid ang amo nga tikang.
Former Councilor Nava, gintawag nga ‘animal kag iskandaluso’ ang agreement nga ginpirmahan ni Former Mayor Mabilog kaangot sa Guimaras-Iloilo Ferry Terminal Project
Gintawag ni Former Iloilo City Councilor Plaridel Nava nga ‘animal kag iskandaluso nga kontrata’ ang ginpirmahan nga joint venture agreement ni Former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sa tunga sang syudad kag Double Dragon Properties Corporation kaangot sa Guimaras-Iloilo Ferry Terminal (GIFT) Project.
Ang issue nagtuhaw kasunod sang renegotiation nga ginaduso ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas kag sa nasambit nga korporasyon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Former Councilor Nava, iya ginpahayag nga sa ila pagdihon sa amo nga agreement, wala sila nahatagan sang kopya sini.
2012 sang ginpirmahan ni Mabilog ang agreement nga nagahatag sa Double Dragon Properties sang eksklusibo nga 25 ka tuig nga kinamatarong sa pagdevelop kag pag-operate sang 13,000-square-meter terminal complex.
Suno kay Nava, ang tikang ang isa ka ‘shocking to human senses’ rason nga nag-apelar siya sa konseho nga i-review ini, kon sa diin, nag-file siya sang resolusyon sang Hunyo 2013 agud bawion ang otoridad ni Mabilog nga magpirma sa joint venture agreement.
Natigayon naman nga napasar ang resolusyon apang liwat nga nabalik ang otoridad kay Mabilog kasunod sang iya nga pagpahingyo sa konseho.
Gindala naman sini sa ombudsman ang agreement bangud wala ini nag-agi sa insakto nga bidding nga mahimo paglapas sa graft and corruption.
Nagapati ang natungdan nga ang agreement ang wala nagtuga sang development sa Parola Wharf bangud naka-focus lamang sa business kon sa diin, mas dako pa ang shopping mall kon ikumpara sa wharf.
Gin-athag man sini nga indi pagpamulitika ang tikang nga ginaduso subong ni Mayor Jerry Treñas bangud parte ini sang ‘public interest’.
Nahibaluan, nga sang si Nava ang councilor, nagboto ini pabor sa amo nga agreement bangud sa amo nga tion, gahingyo siya sang anay alkalde nga buligan.
Apang subong, para sa iya, unfair kag tuman ka lugi ang syudad sa amo nga agreement.
Kon balikan, nakasaad sa anay agreement ang 25 year exclusive rights sa pagkolekta sang terminal, berthing and cargo fees, kag ang pagparenta sang mga commercial spaces sa terminal complex.
Mayor Treñas, ginhangkat si Former Mayor Mabilog sang debate kaangot sa agreement sang Double Dragon Properties Corp sa Guimaras-Iloilo Ferry Terminal Project
Ginhangkat ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas si Former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga mag-debate sa joint venture agreement (JVA) sang city government kag Double Dragon Properties Corp kaangot man sa Guimaras Iloilo Ferry Terminal (GIFT) Project.
Ini kasunod man sang mga akusasyon ni Mabilog batok sa amo nga tikang sang city government.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga dapat sabton man ni Mabilog ang issue sa tion sang iya nga pagpamuno kon sa diin, ginpirmahan sini sang 2012 ang agreement nga nagahatag sa Double Dragon Properties Corp sang eksklusibo nga 25 ka tuig nga kinamatarong sa pagdevelop kag pag-operate sang 13,000-square-meter terminal complex.
Ginkwestyon man ni Treñas kon ngaa tuman gid ka concern ang anay alkalde sa Double Dragon Properties Corporation.
Suno kay Treñas, baseless ang mga akusasyon ni Mabilog kon sa diin, nagbato man ini sang pamangkot kon ang agreement nga ginhimo sang administrasyon sang anay alkalde ang nagasunod sa existing laws sang syudad.
Gin-athag man sini nga ang renegotiation subong nga sa idalom sang Public Private Partnership (PPP) ang nagasunod sa insakto nga proseso.
Ginpunto man ni Treñas nga nagabuligay sila ni Guimaras Governor JC Rahman Nava agud nga mangin madinalag-on ang renegotiation project.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Committee on Transportation sang City Council nga ang letter sang renegotiation ang mangin epektibo 60 days sugod mabaton sang City Legal Office kag Double Dragon Properties Corp.
Nahibaluan nga halos duha ka tuig matapos gin-umpisahan ang pagrepaso liwat sang Joint Venture Agreement para sa Guimaras-Iloilo Ferry Terminal Services sa Parola Wharf.
Wilbert Lee, indi na magpadalagan sa 2025 Senatorial elections
Ginkumpirma ni Agri Party-list Representative Wilbert Lee ang iya pag-atrasa sa pagpadalagan sa 2025 Senatorial elections.
Suno kay Lee, madamo sang mga rason nga nag-isol ini sa piniliay, apang ang nagapanguna amo ang kakulang sa resources sa iya kampanya agud malibot ang bilog nga Pilipinas.
Gin-athag man ni Lee nga ang iya ikaayong lawas ang wala nakaapekto sa iya desisyon.
Siguro may konting heartache lang po ngayon,” pahayag ni Lee.
Sa pihak sini, ginpasalig ni Lee nga padayon siya nga magaserbisyo sa mga Pilipino bilang isa ka kongresista.
‘Hindi po kasama sa politika ito’ — Pantaleon Alvarez sa ila kaso nga ipasaka vs Martin Romualdez
Nanindugan si former House Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez nga indi politika ang yara sa likod sang ila natalana nga pag-file sang kaso batok kay House Speaker Martin Romualdez kag iban pa nga mga mamalidha.
Pahayag sini, maathag nga nakahimo sang krimen si Romualdez kag iban pa nga kaalyado sini nga mga kongresista bangud sa mga blangko nga items nga ginbutang sa bicameral report kaangot sa 2025 national budget.
Ginpahayag sini nga nahibaluan nila ini sang gin-email sa ila ang report, kag natukiban man nila nga sang ginpirmahan sang president, kumpleto na ang yara sa report sa national budget.
Duda man ini kun matawag ini nga typographical error ukon grammatical error bangud nagalab-ot suno sa iya saP241 billion ang kantidad nga yara sa ginapahayag nga blank items.
“Nagulat na lang kaming lahat noong makita namin kung bakit iyon in-e-mail sa amin na bicam report.
Ngunit noong pinirmahan ng presidente, kumpleto na,” pahayag sini sa press conference.
“Ewan ko kung matatawag na typographical error ‘yan o grammatical error.
“Itong pag-file namin ng criminal cases, hindi po kasama sa politika ito.
Malinaw na mayroong krimen na nangyari,” dugang pa sang anay house speaker.
Gindugang man sini nga wala siya sang upod nga congressman sa pag-file sang kaso bangud nahadlok ang iban nga mawad-an sila sang budget sa AKAP kag TUPAD.
Pareho sanday Alvarez kag PDP Laban member Atty.
Jimmy Bondoc nga kaalyado sang mga Duterte apang pareho man sila nga nanginwala nga ini nga tikang ang kabahin sang away-pulitika batok sa mga Marcos.
Suno kay Bondoc, ang pag-file sang kaso-kriminal ang separado sa iya pagpadalagan bilang senador.
Suno sa iya, naga-akto siya sa kapasidad bilang parte sang legal team sang PDP Laban.
Disyembre 30 sang ginpirmahan ni President Marcos ang P6.326-trillion national budget para sa 2025.
Gin-veto sini ang masobra P194 billion nga balor sang line items nga indi consistent sa prayoridad sang iya administrasyon.
Ang una nga nagpalupok sang balita kaangot sa blank items sa budget amo sanday former President Rodrigo Duterte kag Davao City 3rd District Representative Isidro Ungab.
Kasunod sadto, sanday fomer executive secretary kag senatorial aspirant Vic Rodriguez, Ungab, kag iban pa ang naghingyo sa Supreme Court (SC) nga ideklarar ang 2025 national budget bilang unconstitutional.
Sang amo nga tion, una na nga nagpahayag si Marcos nga nagabinutig si Duterte.
Nagpahayag sang pagduda si House Deputy Speaker David “Jay-jay” Suarez kaangot sa kaso nga natalana nga i-file batok kay House Speaker Martin Romualdez kag sa iban pa nga mga kongresista bangud sa gin-alegar nga iregularidad sa 2025 national budget.
Suno kay Suarez, wala sila sang gintago kag nag-agi tanan sa proseso ang General Appropriations Act antes ginpasa kag ginpirmahan ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Ini nga statement ni Suarez ang ginpaguwa matapos ginkumpirma nga maga-file sang reklamo sanday former House Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez kag PDP member Atty.
Jimmy Bondoc kaupod ang Citizen Crime Watch leaders nga sanday Raul Lambino kag Atty.
Ang natalana nga pasakaan sang kaso nga falsification of legislative documents amo sanday Romualdez, former House Appropriations Committee Chairman Zaldy Co, House Majority Leader Manuel Jose Dalipe, kag iban pa nga mga kongresista nga wala ginhingadlan.
Ginpahayag nga iga-file ang criminal complaint sa Quezon City Prosecutor’s Office buwas, Pebrero 10.
Pahayag naman ni Congressman Suarez, panahon subong ang kampanya kag gasgas na ini nga script, wala sang unod, kag lunsay lang gahod ang mabatian.
Dugang sini, dapat nga lantawon kun sin-o ang mga maga-file sang kaso nga suno sa iya ginalakipan sang balimbing nga congressman, senatoriable nga gusto masapakan, kag isa pa nga mahilig manggamo sa tion sang eleksyon.
Indi na kinahanglan ang henyo suno kay Suarez agud mapaktan kun sin-o ang tawo nga yara sa likod sang pag-file sang kaso.
Gintawag man niya ini nga diversion ilabi na bangud gin-anunsyo sang mga taga-suporta sang mga Duterte nga i-file ang kaso matapos nga na-impeach si Vice President Sara Duterte sa Kamara kag natalana nga mag-atubang sa trial sa Senado.
Sa halip na maglatag ng solusyon, inuuna ang demolition job.
Kung gulo ang hanap nila, sana mas galingan nila script.
Ginagamit ang 2025 budget bilang smoke screen—parang ginawa nilang drama noon sa confidential funds.
Hindi pa nai-implement ang 2025 budget, may korapsyon na?,” pahayag sini.
Ginsiling man sini nga gina-abi-abi sang Kamara ang iga-file nga complaint.
“Handa ang Kongresong sagutin ang mga walang -batayang alegasyon.
Pero kung layunin lang ay pulitika, hindi dapat magpaloko.
Bato, ginsaway sang health advocates sa pag-insulto sa nawong sang stroke survivor nga kongresista
Ginmuno kag ginsaway sang health and medical advocates ang pag-insulto ni Sen.
Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa sa nawong ni Akbayan Rep.
Nag-ugat ini sang nagkomento si Cendaña kaangot sa impeachment batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Sang nagsiling si Sara nga mas masakit pa nga mabayaan sang nobya ukon nobyo ipaanggid sa pag-impeach sang Kamara sa iya, nagkomento man si Cendaña nga indi ini nahanungod sa lover kundi istorya sa “public accountability and liability.
Diri na kag nag-eksena si Bato kag nagsabat sa comment section nga daw nasumbagan ang nawong sang kongresista rason nga nagkiwi.
Ginhangkat pa niya ini nga magpalapit para nga masumbagan sa pihak nga parte sang nawong agud nga magbalanse.
Nagsabat naman ang Akbyan representative nga kiwi ang iya itsura bangud isa siya ka stroke survivor.
Nagpalabtik man ini nga maisog ang senador, pero kuntani suno sa iya, amo man ini kaisog pag-abot sa isyu sa China sa West Philippine Sea kag pag-atubang sa International Criminal Court kaangot sa isyu sa war on drugs.
Si Bato amo anay ang chief sang Philippine National Police (PNP) sa idalom sang Duterte administration, samtang si Cendaña naman ang una nga nagpirma sa una sa apat ka impeachment complaints batok kay Sara Duterte.
Base naman sa joint statement sang 31 ka mga doctor kag advocates nga kadam-an parte sang umbrella group nga Epilepsy Awareness Philippines, ang komento ni Bato ang insulto sa dignidad sang mga tawo nga may health conditions.
“Senator Bato Dela Rosa’s attack on Akbayan Rep.
Pahayag pa sang grupo, kun nag-research kuntani si Bato, nahibaluan kuntani sini nga na-stroke anay ang kongresista.
Ang kaangay sini nga komento suno sa grupo ang nagapadalom pa sang diskriminasyon sa mga tawo nga may problema sa ikaayong lawas.
Mangin si former Senator Leila de Lima ang nagpahayag man nga bastos ang pahayag sang senador.
“Hindi ito biro tahasang pambabastos ito, lalo na sa isang taong buong tapang na humarap at nalampasan ang matinding hamon sa kanyang kalusugan,” pahayag ni De Lima.
“Ipinapakita ng ganitong asal kung bakit kailangang piliing mabuti ang mga namumuno sa ating bayan.”
Kabataan Tayo ang Pag-asa, ginaduso ang matinlo kag tampad nga 2025 midterm elections
Naglunsyar sang rebranding ang Kabataan Tayo ang Pag-asa para sa matinlo kag tampad nga 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Arlie Bosque, Lead Convenor sang Kabataan Tayo ang Pag-asa, iya ginpahayag nga ang alyansa ang ginpasakopan sang mga aktibo nga organisasyon sang mga kabataan sa Western Visayas.
Suno kay Bosque, naga-calibrate lang ang amo nga hublag kada eleksyon kon sa diin, may mga poll watchers kag may yara man sang mga naga-volunteer agud mag-edukar nahanungod sa insakto nga pagboto.
Nagakoordinar man ang amo nga alyansa sa pila ka community group agud mas mapasangkad ang pagdul-ong sang right voting.
Ang organisasyon ang isa man ka pagpakita sang ‘response’ sa bulok nga sistema sang pamulitika sa Pilipinas.
2015 sang natukod ang Kabataan Tayo ang Pag-asa agud mangin tingog sa mga issues nga ginapangatubang sang pamatan-on.
Pila ka mga Uniteam supporters, nagapati nga ‘very technical’ ang impeachment complaint ni VP Sara Duterte
Nagpati ang pila ka mga Uniteam supporters ukon ang nagsuporta sa kandidatura nanday President Ferdinand “Bong-bong” Marcos Jr.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas Joe, teaching staff sa isa ka unibersidad, iya ginpahayag nga kon matigayon gidman ang impeachment, kinahanglan nga nakahibalo kag incompetent ang mga senators judges.
Suno kay Joe, tuman ka dugay ang proseso sang impeachment process sa pungsod antes matigayon nga matapos.
Wala naman nga nag-ekspektar ang natungdan nga magbulagay ang Uniteam nga iya ginsuportahan bangud una na nga nagpati siya nga professional si VP Sara bangud isa ini ka abogado.
Gintuad man sini nga wala natuman ni Duterte ang expectations sang minilyon nga mga nagboto sa iya.
Nagalaum man ang natungdan nga matutokan kag mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga pagtamod ang kaso nga ginapangatubang sang bise presidente nga iya anay sadto ginsuportahan.
Pabor naman ang pila ka mga Uniteam supporters nga i-impeach si Vice Pres.
Ginpahayag man sini nga sa subong, magapabilin siya nga magasuporta kay President Ferdinand “Bong-bong” Marcos Jr., apisar nga nagbulag na ang Uniteam .
Nagpanindugan man ang natungdan nga indi na niya pagbotohon liwat si Vice President Duterte kon magpadalagan man sa 2028 Presidential Elections.
Para naman sa mga supporters ni Former Vice Pres.
Leni Robredo nga politically motivated ang ginahimo subong sang administrasyon ni Pres.
bangud matunog man nga magapadalagan si Duterte sa pagka-presidente.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Herbert Lim, stall owner sa Iloilo Central Market, iya ginpahayag nga dapat atubangon ni VP Sara Duterte ang mga alegasyon nga ginahaboy sa iya kon wala siya gidman sang sala.
Suno kay Lim, lunsay pamulitika tanan ang ginahimo sang administrasyon ni Pres.
Marcos Jr.,ilabi na nga may plano si Inday Sara nga magpapili sa Presidential Elections.
Indi man matumod sang natungdan kon magadaog si Inday Sara kon magapadalagan ini gidman sa pagka-presidente.
Nagalaum man si Lim nga maimbestigaran sang maayo ang mga alegasyon batok kay Duterte agud nga mapasabat ang mga may kapaltahan.
Ginklaro ni Senate Majority Leader Joel Villanueva nga indi siya mag-request sang special session sa Senado agud nga mapadasig ang impeachment trial batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Apang suno sa senador, kun halimbawa may yara sang hingyo si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
sa Kongreso nga magpatigayon sang special session, handa siya nga magsunod.
Sang Huwebes sang hapon matandaan nga ginsiling ni Marcos nga bukas siya sa pagpatawag sang special session kun may pormal man nga request ang mga senador nga magpatigayon sang impeachment proceedings paagi sa special session.
Ini bangud naka-session break subong ang Kongreso kaangot sa midterm elections kag natalana nga mag-resume sa Hunyo 2, 2025.
Sang Miyerkules, 215 ka mga mamalidha ang nagpirma para ma-impeach sa Kamara si Sara.
Sandro Marcos ang una nga signatory kag si House Speaker Martin Romualdez naman ang katapusan nga nagpirma.
Kahapon, Pebrero 7, may yara sang House release nga nagsaad nga may 25 pa gid ka dugang nga representatives nga nagpirma man para sa impeachment — buot silingon, 240 na subong ang complainants halin sa Kamara.
Yara subong ang bola sa Senado para sa patigayunon nga impeachment trial.
‘Bakit naman nagugulat ang tao?’ — Sandro Marcos sa pagpirma sa impeachment complaint vs Sara
nga si Ilocos Norte Representative Sandro Marcos nga wala sang dapat nga ika-tingala kun ngaa siya ang una nga nagpirma agud nga ma-impeach sa Kamara si Vice President Sara Duterte.
Indi na ini makakilibot suno kay Sandro ilabi na sa mga ginpanghambal ni Sara sa iya pamilya.
Ginhalimbawa sini ang statement anay ni Sara sang Oktubre 2024 nga kalkalon ang bangkay sang iya Lolo nga si the late President Ferdinand E.
sa Libingan ng mga Bayani kag itagbong sa West Philippine Sea.
Ikaduha suno kay Sandro amo ang pahayag ni Sara nga kun may magpatay sa iya, may ginmanduan man ini nga patyon si President Marcos, First Lady Liza Marcos, kag House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
“Alangan naman kung sasabihin ng tao na gusto silang hukayin yung lolo mo at itapon ‘yung katawan sa West Philippine Sea, sasabihin niya gusto niyang patayin ang Pangulo at ang First Lady na aking [mga] magulang at gusto niyang patayin ang Speaker, eh bakit naman nagugulat ang tao na pipirma ko diyan?” paathag sang mamalidha.
Suno sa kongresista, indi dapat pagbalewalaon ang kaangay sini nga mga statement ilabi na kun halin ini sa tawo nga may mataas nga posisyon.
“Bakit naman nagugulat ang tao na pipirma ako diyan?
Si Sandro amo ang subang nga bata sang presidente kag first lady, kag hinablos man siya ni Romualdez.
Ginpakigbahin man sini nga ginlaygayan siya sang iya amay nga himuon lamang ang iya trabaho bilang congressman kag sundon kun ano ang sinumpaan sa Konstitusyon.
Pahayag sini, isa ka constitutional duty nga magsunod siya sa impeachment process bilang isa ka elected representative.
“Well, katulad po sa sinabi ng ating Pangulo ay nung nagpirmahan na sa impeachment complaint ay tinanong ko siya kung ano ba ang advice niya.
Si Sandro ang una nga signatory kag si Romualdez naman ang katapusan nga nagpirma.
VP Sara: “Alam niyo, mas masakit pa ang maiwan ng boyfriend o girlfriend kesa ma-impeach ka ng House of Representatives”
Sa pihak sang ginapangatubang sini nga impeachment, nahimo sa gihapon ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga maghalog.
Sa press briefing, sang ginpangayuan ini sang mensahe sa Valentines, nagpahayag ang bise presidente nga may yara pa sang mas masakit kun ipaanggid sa pag-impeach sa iya sang Kamara.
Suno kay Duterte, ini amo ang mabayaan sang boyfriend ukon girlfriend.
“Alam niyo, mas masakit pa ang maiwan ng boyfriend o girlfriend kesa ma-impeach ka ng House of Representatives.”
Ginpahayag sini nga wala man ini nakabatyag nga gintraiduran ini bangud wala man ini nga suod nga abyan nga yara sa politika partikular sa Kamara.
Gindugang man sini nga kun wala sang may ginhimo nga sala ang mga kongresista nga nagboto pabor sa iya impeachment, wala man ang mga ini sang dapat nga ipaathag ukon depensahan.
Duterte, gin-deny ang plano nga ipa-assassinate si Marcos
Ginpanginwala ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga nagbuya siya sang pahayag nga ipapatay sini sa President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Suno kay Duterte, wala ini nakadumdom nga nagpagwa ini sang pahayag nga patyon sini ang president.
Ini ang baliskad naman sa ginhambal sini sang Nobyembre 23, 2024 sa diin gin-ako sini sa isa ka video nga may gin-hire ini nga gunman agud magpatay sa presidente, First Lady Liza Marcos kag House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
VP Sara, plano nga magapadalagan bilang presidente sa 2028 elections
Ini ang ginpahayag ni Duterte kadungan sang iya press briefing matapos gin-impeach sang Kamara.
Apang suno kay Duterte, padayon pa ang iya pagpakighinun-anon sa iya mga abogado natuhoy diri.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Duterte nga madamo sang nagatuyo nga magguba sa iya bangud siya ang nagapanguna nga ginapilian nga mangin masunod nga presidente sang Pilipinas.
VP Sara, nanindugan nga indi mag-resign sa pwesto
Sa pinakauna nga kahigayunan matapos gin-impeach sang Kamara, nag-atubang si Vice President Sara Duterte sa press briefing subong nga adlaw.
Diri kag gin-isa isa sini sabat ang mga issue nahanungod sa iya impeachment.
Nagapasalamat man ini sa tanan nga mga nagasuporta kag nagapalangga sa iya.
Makahulugan man ang pahayag sini sa iya speech nga “God save the Philippines” sa diin gindugang man sini nga naluoy na siya sa Pilipinas.
Ginbuyagyag man sini nga madamo ang mga abogado ang nagpahayag sang suporta nga magbulig sa iya kaso, lakip na ang iya amay nga si former President Rodrigo Duterte, apang ginbalibaran niya ini bangud may edad na ini.
Sa ulihi, nanindugan ang bise presidente nga indi siya mag-resign sa pwesto.
She also expressed gratitude for the ongoing support from her constituents: “Bukod dito, nais ko na lang ipaabot ang aking taos pusong pasasalamat sa mga kababayan na patuloy nagdarasal, sumusuporta, nagtitiwala at patuloy na nagmamahal sa akin.
Manalig kayo dahil sa taong bayan ang tagumpay.”
She also took the opportunity to extend her heartfelt gratitude to her supporters, saying, “Bukod dito, nais ko na lang ipaabot ang aking taos pusong pasasalamat sa mga kababayan na patuloy nagdarasal, sumusuporta, nagtitiwala at patuloy na nagmamahal sa akin.
Senado, mahimo sa gihapon magserbe nga impeachment court vs VP Sara apisar naka-adjourn — abogado
Nagapati ang isa ka abogado nga pinasahi ang proseso sang reklamo nga impeachment nga atubangon ni Vice President Sara Duterte bangud natuon ini sa election period kag naka-adjourn na ang 19th Congress.
Jeremy Moreno, law professor sa University of San Agustin College of Law, iya ginpahayag nga mahimo sa gihapon nga magserbe bilang impeachment court ang Senado apisar nga naka-adjourn ini ukon wala sang anuman nga regular session.
Suno kay Moreno, ang hearing sa impeachment complaint ang indi isa ka ordinaryo nga function sang Kongreso, sa baylo, ini ang isa ka non-legislative function kag special function.
Bangud sini, indi ‘applicable’ ang mga nakaandan nga proseso ukon pagsulundan nga sa tion nga naka-adjourn na ang Senado, wala na sang session nga matabo.
Nagapati ang natungdan nga indi mahimo pagpadugayon pa sang Senado ang impeachment complaint ilabi na nga gin-impeach na ang bise presidente sa Kamara.
Ginpahayag sini nga obligasyon sang Senado nga mag-hearing sa verified impeachment complaint, santo man sa nakasaad sa layi.
Nahimo na suno sa iya sang Kamara ang papel sini kag yara na sa Senado ang katungdanan agud padayunon ang impeachment process batok kay Duterte.
Una diri, ginpahayag ni Senate President Chiz Escudero nga indi magpatigayon sang impeachment trial ang Senado tubtob indi ini magre-reconvene sa Hunyo 2, 2025, bangud una na nga nag-adjourn ang Senado nga wala naistoryahan ang complaint.
‘Alangan naman sabihin niya ‘tama lahat yan’ —Marcos sa pagpakamalaot ni Pulong sa pag-impeach kay Sara
Wala na nakibot si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Paolo “Pulong” Duterte nga nagapakamalaot sa pag-impeach sang Kamara kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Sang gintawag ni Congressman Pulong nga “political persecution” ang lihok sang lower chamber, ginpangayuan sang reaksyon si Marcos.
Alangan naman sabihin niya ‘tama lahat yan.
Yari ang kabug-usan nga statement nga ginpaguwa ni Congressman Pulong sang nagligad nga adlaw:
Bangud sa namensyonar sini nga Garin, una naman nga nagpaguwa sang statement si Iloilo 1st District Rep.
Janette Garin nga nagapanginwala sang akusasyon nga siya ang nagtipon sang mga pirma.
Nagapati man ang congresswoman nga posible nasal-an lang siya ni Cong.
Pulong bangud nga ang nagpaathag sang ikaapat nga impeachment complaint nga gin-file sa Kamara amo si House Deputy Speaker Jayjay Suarez nga ginatawag man sang kadam-an nga si “Cong Jay.”
Suno kay Garin, ginatawag man siya bilang si “Cong J” sa Kamara gani posible nga lain nga “J” ang napalab-ot sa impormasyon ni Cong.
Pulong kag wala na na-check sang maayo antes ang press release.
Pahayag sini, kuntani lantawon man sang maayo ni Congressman Duterte ang mga impormasyon nga iya mabaton.
Sa plenaryo sa Kamara sang Myerkules, 215 sa 306 ka mga mamalidha ang nag-suporta sa bag-o nga impeachment complaint batok kay Duterte nga amo ang rason sa pagpasaka sini nga reklamo sa Senado para sa trial nga posible maga-resulta sa pagkakas kay Sara sa pwesto.
Marcos, wala nakahibalo nga si Sandro ang una nga nagpirma sa impeachment complaint vs Sara
nga gin-abisuhan sini ang iya subang nga bata nga si Ilocos Norte First District Rep.
Sandro Marcos nga himuon ang iya nga constitutional duty nga aktuhan ang impeachment complaint nga yara sa Kamara.
Kaangot ini sa ginamuno sang kadam-an nga nagpahayag anay si President Marcos nga indi siya pabor sa impeachment batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte, apang ang iya anak man nga si Sandro amo ang una nga nagpirma sa ikaapat nga complaint.
Ang pamangkot, nagpamangkot man bala si Sandro sa iya amay kun ano ang iya himuon?
Gindugang sini nga naglaygay lang ini sa iya bata nga himuon lang ang trabaho sini sang nag-umpisa na ang proseso sa lower chamber.
”So, sabi ko, ‘nandiyan na tayo,’ sabi ko kay Cong.
Apang dugang sini, wala siya nakahibalo nga una gid si Sandro sa pagpirma sang complaint.
Sa kopya nga nakuha sang Bombo Radyo, pang-215 naman nga nagpirma si House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
Nagapati man si Marcos nga ang pagdayon sang impeachment kay Sara ang wala nagapakita nga ginsumpakil na sang mga kongresista ang iya nga mandu.
“It’s not defiance, kung ganyan ang kanilang paniniwala eh,” suno kay Marcos.
Sa press briefing, ginklaro man sang presidente nga wala siya sang labot sa pag-impeach sang Kamara sa bise-presidente.
“Nakatali na ang kamay nila, they have to do this.”
Ginpahayag man sini nga kun mag-umpisa na ang impeachment proceedings, magalantaw lamang siya, wala sang siya sang papel diri, kag wala sang mangin representasyon halin sa Executive.
Marcos, nanginwala nga may kahilabtanan ini sa pag-impeach sang Kamara kay Sara
nga wala siya sang kahilabtanan sa pag-impeach sang Kamara sa iya anay runningmate nga si Vice President Sara Duterte.
Suno kay Marcos, wala sang papel nga gintungdan ang executive branch sa sini nga proseso.
Walang role ang executive sa impeachment,” pahayag sini sa press briefing, Pebrero 6.
Kun balikan, Nobyembre 2024 sang ginkumpirma ni Marcos nga nagpadala siya sang text message sa mga kongresista nga nagasiling nga indi pagdayunon ang pag-file sang impeachment complaint batok kay Sara.
Ginsiling sini anay nga “unimportant” man si Sara kag indi nagakabagay nga usikan sang tyempo sang Kongreso.
Apang dugang ni Marcos subong, sang na-file na ang impeachment complaints sa lower chamber, wala na sang pilian ukon wala na sang opsyon ang Kongreso bangud nga trabaho nila nga aktuhan ini nga reklamo base sa nakasaad sa Konstitusyon.
Bato dela Rosa, nagpasalig nga mangin neutral sa impeachment trial kay VP Sara Duterte
Nagpahayag si Senador Ronald ‘Bato’ Dela Rosa nga mangin neutral ini sa impeachment trial ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga natalana na nga magasaka sa Senado.
Suno kay Bato, indi man malipod nga kaalyado siya sang mga Duterte ilabi na ni former president Rodrigo Duterte.
Apang dugang niya, busision sini ang mga ebidensya nga ipresentar kun mag-umpisa na ang trial.
Nakikita ko naman ang kanilang effort to impeach VP Sara,” suno kay Dela Rosa.
Bisan ginsiling na sini nga magapabilin ang iya political neutrality, nagakahangawa man ini nga ang impeachment proceedings ang makabalabag sa iya tyansa nga makapa-reelect.
Dugang sini, mahimo man siya ma-distract sa pagpangampanya para sa May midterm elections.
“Ang daya nila noh, gagawin kami hostage dito para maging judge ng impeachment court, tapos sila mangangampanya na!
Hindi kami makakapangampanya,” pahayag sini samtang nagakadlaw.
Nagapati man ini nga maga-umpisa ang trial sa Senado pagkatapos na sang eleksyon ukon kun mag-resume ang Kongreso sa Hunyo 2.
Pero based sa napag-usapan kanina, yun ang rinig ko, i-ta-tackle after elections.”#
‘Baka nagkamali’: Garin, nagsabat sa akusasyon sa pagtipon sang pirma agud ma-impeach si Sara
Janette Garin kun ngaa siya ang ginhingadlan ni Davao City Rep.
Paolo Duterte nga nagpanguna sa pagtipon sang pirma para nga madasig nga ma-impeach si Vice President Sara Duterte sa Kamara.
Pulong kahapon, ginpahayag sini nga akig siya sa desperado kag politically-motivated nga mga lihok para dasigon ang impeachment batok sa iya utod.
Gintawag man sini ang impeachment case nga wala sang basehan kag klaro nga akto sang political persecution.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo Philippines kay Garin, ginpahayag sini nga daku nga kuryente kag indi matuod ang impormasyon nga siya ang nanguna sa pagtipon sang mga pirma.
Ginklaro sini nga wala man siya nagpangampanya para diri kag wala nagpangumbinse sa iban bangud kada kongresista ang may yara man sang constituency kag indi madali nga istoryahon kun may yara man sila sang panindugan.
Suno kay Garin, nagpirma lamang siya sa impeachment complaint bangud nga indi niya matalikdan ang iya constitutional duty kag nakit-an man sini nga klaro ang mga ebidensya batok kay Duterte ilabi na sa betrayal of public trust.
Nagapati man si Garin nga posible nasal-an lang siya ni Cong.
Gindugang man sini nga madugay-dugay na nga wala nagakadto sa hearings sa Kamara ang amo nga kongresista gani nga wala sini nagakakita kag nagakabatian kun ano gid ang nagakatabo sa chamber.
Bangud lapaw ang 215 sa one third sang House membership nga 306 ka mga kongresista, yara na sa Senado ang bola sandig sa kun ano ang nakasaad sa 1987 Constitution.
Kahapon amo man ang katapusan nga adlaw sang session para sa Kamara kag Senado antes ang pahuway para sa national and local elections.
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Ginpakamalaot ni Davao City 1st District Rep.
Sa isa ka pahayag, ginakusaran ni Paolo ang mga mamalidha, sa pagpanguna ni Iloilo 1st District Rep.
Janette Garin, nga ginpadasigan ang proseso.
Suno kay Paolo, maathag nga political persecution ang ginhimo sang mga mamalidha sa diin ginpahayag sini nga ginmaniobra ang pagtipon sang mga pirma agud mapadasig ang gintawag sini nga wala basehan nga impeachment.
Nagpaandam man ini sa ginapahayag “reckless abuse of power” sa diin pat-od suno sa iya nga indi magpabor sa administrasyon.
Samtang, ginatawag naman nga malisyoso ni Rep.
Garin ang pagtudlo sa iya ni sang kaangay nga mamalidha nga nagpanguna sa impeachment batok sa bise presidente.
Suno kay Garin, nagakadapat nga mag-atubang sa iya ang naghatag sang nasambit nga impormasyon.
Ginpaathag sini nga wala siya sang poder agud impluwensyahan ang iya mga kaangay nga mamalidha.
Gindepensa man ni Garin nga nagpirma man ini sa pagpa-impeach sa bise presidente bangud kabahin ini sang iya constitutional duty.
Barbara, ginsaysay ang rason sang pag-inagaway sang duha ka mister sa iya
𝗕𝗔𝗥𝗕𝗔𝗥𝗔, 𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 – Nagahilibion nga ginsaysay sang misis nga gina-agawan sang duha ka mister ang rason sang pagluthang-patay sang iya anay live-in partner sa iya subong nga karelasyon sa Sitio Riles, Brgy.
Ang ila gina-awayan nga babaye amo si Alyas “May-may”, 42, residente sang nasambit nga lugar, may pito ka mga kabataan.
Ang biktima nga si Rodito Celis Jr., 44, residente sang Brgy.
Barbara amo sa subong ang karelasyon ni Alyas “May-may”, apang may asawa man nga yara sa abroad kag may anak.
Samtang ang suspek naman nga si Ronald Susvilla, 45-anyos residente sang Brgy.
Barbara ang anay live-in partner ni Alyas “May-may”, may asawa man nga yara sa abroad kag may anak.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alyas “May-may”, iya ginpahayag nga sang 2019, nag-angkon sila sang relasyon sang suspek sa diin may lima ka tuig sila nga anak nga lalaki.
Suno kay Alyas “May-may”, sang nagbusong ini, nag-umpisa na sa pagpakita sang malain nga batasan ang suspek tubtob nagdesisyon ini nga makigbulag na sang Nobyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
Apang suno kay Alyas “May-may”, indi gusto sang suspek nga mahibaluan sang publiko nga bulagay na sila bangud nahuya ini.
Sang Disyembre, nag-atubangay ang tatlo sa diin ginpili ni Alyas “May-may” nga mag-upod sa biktima kag makigbulag na sa suspek.
Kahapon, nagpadulong ang suspek sa ila balay.
Sang amo nga tion, yara sa katre ang biktima kag yara naman sa kusina si Alyas “May-may”.
Nakibot na lang si Alyas “May-may” sang nakabati sang lupok kag sang gin-usisa, nakita na lang sini ang suspek nga ginluthang ang biktima.
Nagpalagyo naman ang suspek kasunod sang paghimo sini sang krimen.
Insigida naman nga gindala sa ospital ang biktima apang ginbawian man sang kabuhi sa diin walo ang pilas sini kag patal diri ang sa dughan kag liog.
Iban nga kaso ni Mabilog, wala nadala sa ginhatag nga executive clemency ni Marcos
Wala nadala sa ginhatag nga executive clemency ni President Ferdinand ”Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
ang mga masunod pa nga mga desisyon sa iban pa nga kaso nga ginapangatubang ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Noel Palomado, Bombo Abogado, iya ginpahayag nga ang executive clemency nga ginhatag kay Mabilog ang kaangot lang sa desisyon sang Office of the Ombudsman bangud sa “dishonesty” bangud sa iya ginapahayag tago nga manggad nga gin-file ni anay Iloilo Provincial Administrator Manuel ‘Boy’ Mejorada.
Suno kay Palomado, ang paghatag sang executive clemency kay Mabilog ang ginbase sa iya mayo nga pagdumala, mga awards nga nabaton kag pagkilala nga nabaton sang Iloilo City sa idalom sang iya pagpamuno.
Bangud sa executive clemency, mahimo na nga magpadalagan si Mabilog sa anuman nga posisyon sa gobyerno.
Apang sa pihak sini, nagapangatubang sa gihapon si Mabilog sang kaso nga graft sa Sandiganbayan nga ginpasaka sa ila ni anay Iloilo City Councilor Plaridel Nava II sang Office of the Ombudsman sang 2023.
Kaangot ini sa ila kahilabtanan sa pag-award sang isa ka kontrata sang gobyerno sa isa ka firm nga ginapahayag may kaangtanan sa ila.
Sang Setyembre, nagpyansa si Mabilog kaangot sa kaso sini nga graft.
Kun anuman ang mangin desisyon sini, gin-athag sang abogado nga indi na ini sakop sang executive clemency.
Liga ng mga Barangay President sang Iloilo City, pabor sa extension sang termino sang mga barangay officials
Pabor ang Liga ng mga Barangay President sang Iloilo City sa extension sang termino sang mga barangay officials.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Ma.
Irene Ong, Presidente sang Liga ng mga Barangay sa Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga ang extension ang mahimo magamit sang mga opisyal agud nga matapos ang mga proyekto.
Suno kay Ong, isa man ka kahigayon ang tikang agud nga mahanas ang mga opisyales sang barangay ilabi na ang bag-uhanon.
Ginpahayag man sini nga apisar may ginapatuman na nga Barangay Newly Elected Official training, may yara sa gihapon nga mga opisyal ang indi makahibalo magpamuno.
Sa idalom sang amo nga programa, may tutorial ang talatapan nga naga-edukar sa mga opisyal sa ila development plan.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom sang House Bill 11287, ginaduso nga ma-extend ang termino sang mga barangay kag Sangguniang Kabataan officials sa anom ka tuig halin sa tatlo ka tuig.
Nava, nagpagwa sang open letter kay Pres.
Marcos kaangot sa executive clemency nga ginhatag sini kay Mabilog
Ini ang kasunod man sang paghatag ni Presidente Marcos sang executive clemency kay former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Nava, iya ginpahayag nga madamo siya sang mga screen shots nga nagapamatuod nga nagakampanya si Mabilog batok kay Presidente Marcos sang tinalikdan nga 2022 presidential elections.
Suno kay Nava, sa nasambit nga mga screen shots, gintawag ni Mabilog si Presidente Marcos bilang ‘World’s Greatest Thief’.
Apang suno kay Nava, ang nasambit nga mga posts ang na-delete na.
Pamatuod diri nga Marso 3, 2021 ang umpisa sang post ni Mabilog, apang ang masunod nga post ang may petsa na nga ang Agusto 3, 2024.
Nagakahulugan nga ang mga posts ni Mabilog sang Marso 4, 2021 tubtob Agusto 2, 2024 ang naubos na panas.
Nahibaluan man sang mga Ilonggo suno kay Nava nga si Mabilog ang kilala nga nagakampanya sa Leni Robredo-Kiko Pangilinan tandem.
Una diri, ginkumpirma man ni Nava nga magadangop siya sa Korte Suprema agud i-challenge ang executive clemency nga ginahatag ni Presidente Marcos kay Mabilog.
Ang executive clemency ang kaangot lang sa desisyon sang Office of the Ombudsman bangud sa “dishonesty” kaangot sa iya ginapahayag tago nga manggad nga gin-file ni anay Iloilo Provincial Administrator Manuel ‘Boy’ Mejorada.
Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon, ginhambalan si Councilor Nick Baronda nga nagapaalam-alam lang
Wala napunggan ni Iloilo City Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon nga sawayon si Councilor Urminico “Nick” Baronda kaangot sa pagpasar sang 10-year solid waste management plan sang General Services Office (GSO).
Nalakip ang amo nga plano sa session subong nga adlaw sang Iloilo City Council.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Vice Mayor Ganzon, iya ginpahayag nga ang iya ginhimo ang isa lamang ka pahanumdom bangud masami nga nagasal-ot si Baronda apisar nga wala pa ini na-recognize.
Para kay Ganzon, daw kaangay nga gina-insulto sang opisyal ang normal nga dalagan sang session.
Suno kay Ganzon, dapat lang nga respetohon ang pagsulundan ilabi na nga amo ini ang yara sa parliamentary rules.
Ginhambalan man sang natungdan nga daw nagapaalam-alam lang si Baronda.
Nahibaluan nga ginaduso ni Councilor Baronda nga padalman anay ang nakasaad sa tikang antes nga ipasar, apang bangud kay ‘urgent’ kinahanglan ini gilayon maaprubahan agud malagas ang rekisitos sa pagproseso sang bag-o nga sanitary landfill.
Gin-athag naman ni Ganzon nga indi sini tuyo ma-offend si Baronda kag kinahanglan lamang niya nga ipahanumdom ang insakto nga pag-observe sang session.
“Bilang inyong Senator Kuya Bong Go, napakalaking karangalan po ang makasama kayo sa okasyong ito na tunay na ipinagmamalaki hindi lamang ng Iloilo, kundi ng buong Pilipinas,” he remarked, highlighting the festival as a symbol of the Ilonggo people’s “buhi nga pagtuo” (living faith).
“Sa bawat pintig ng tambol at sigaw ng ‘Hala Bira!’ nararamdaman natin ang tibok ng inyong pananampalataya, at pagmamahal sa Diyos at sa kapwa.”
“Sa larangan ng kalusugan, patuloy nating isinusulong ang pagtatayo ng Super Health Centers sa buong bansa upang mas mapalapit ang serbisyong pangkalusugan sa ating mga kababayan, lalo na sa mga kanayunan,” said Go.
“Ang mga batas na ito ay bunga ng sama-samang pagkilos natin—mula sa pambansa hanggang sa lokal na pamahalaan—upang masiguro na ang bawat Pilipino, lalo na ang mga Ilonggo, ay may akses sa serbisyong pangkalusugan na nararapat para sa kanila,” Go emphasized.
He vowed to continue serving the Filipino people, underscoring his belief, saying: “Patuloy akong magseserbisyo sa inyong lahat sa abot ng aking makakaya dahil bisyo ko na ang magserbisyo at ako po ay naniniwala na ang serbisyo sa tao ay serbisyo po ‘yan sa Diyos.”
Patuloy kayong maging inspirasyon sa buong bansa sa pamamagitan ng inyong malasakit, pananampalataya, at pagmamahal sa kapwa.
Kaso nga igapasaka ni former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog batok kay Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon, nakahanda na
Handa na ang kaso nga igapasaka ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog batok kay Vice Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon.
Ini kasunod man sang pahayag ni Mabilog nga magapasaka ini sang kaso nga “libel” batok kay Ganzon sang nagligad nga tuig.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay former Mayor Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga ginapangamuyuan na niya ang kaso nga ipasaka sa bise-alkalde sang syudad.
Suno kay Mabilog, nagapati siya sa kasuguan sang Ginoo nga mangin mapinatawaron apang para sa iya, tuman gid ka sakit ang ginhimo ni Ganzon.
Sang ginpamangkot naman ang anay alkalde nga ipat-pat ang mga dugang nga kaso, wala ini nagkomento.
Nahibaluan nga una na nga ginpahayag ni Vice Mayor Ganzon nga wala siya sang may madumduman nga “libelous” nga komento nga ginbuy-an batok kay Mabilog.
Ginarespeto man ni Ganzon ang pagpasaka sang kaso ni Mabilog kon nakabatyag ini sang ‘aggrieved’ ukon indi patas nga pagtratar.
Samtang, nagpahayag naman si Mabilog nga basi nagka-Alzheimer lang si Ganzon rason nga wala sini madumduman ang iya ginhimo.
Jam-jam Baronda, nangin emosyonal sa paghatag sang executive clemency kay former Mayor Jed Mabilog
Emosyonal nga nagpasalamat si Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-jam” Baronda sa mga nagsuporta kag nagbuylog kay former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog agud makuha ang executive clemency.
Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga sa pito ka tuig, nasaksihan niya ang naagyan nga sakripisyo sang anay alkalde.
Suno kay Baronda, ini ang pinakadasig nga paghatag sang executive clemency sa isa ka anay opisyal sang gobyerno.
Nagapati man ang natungdan nga nakit-an sang yara sa ibabaw nga mga opisyal ang nangin serbisyo ni Mabilog sa Iloilo City.
Nagpasalamat man ang natungdan kay House Speaker Martin Romualdez kag sa House Quad Committee bangud sila ang nangin balagan agud mabuksan ang kaso ni Mabilog.
Nahibaluan nga si Mabilog ang may ginapangatubang nga kaso nga paglapas sa RA 3019 ukon ang Anti-graft and Corrupt Practices Act kag RA 6713 ukon Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for Public Officials.
Ini ang nag-ugat sa gin-alegar nga vehicle towing contract nga ginpirmahan sang anay alkalde sang 2015.
Madumduman nga sang nagligad nga Septyembre 2024 sang nagpauli si Mabilog sa Pilipinas halin sa Estados Unidos matapos ang pila ka tuig nga pagpanago para sa iya seguridad matapos nalakip ang iya pangalan sa narcolist ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sang 2017.
Former Mayor Jed Mabilog, nagapati nga tuman pa ka layo agud magbalik siya sa pulitika
Nagapati si former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga tuman pa ka layo agud istoryahan ang pulitika.
Ini kasunod man sang paghatag sa iya sang executive clemency ni Pres.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay former Mayor Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga ginaplano niya nga magapadulong sa Manila agud personal nga makapasalamat sa mga naghatag sa iya sang clemency.
Suno kay Mabilog, magatutok man siya sa pagkampanya sa Team Sulong Gugma ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-jam” Baronda.
Ginhatagan man sini sang importansya ang pagpalapnag sang kapasidad ni former City Councilor Love-love Baronda nga magapapili bilang bise-alkalde sang Iloilo City.
Tuyo man sang natungdan nga magbalik bilang pribado nga citizen sang syudad sa masunod nga tatlo ka tuig.
Nagapati man si Mabilog nga madamo pa sang posible matabo ilabi na nga tuman pa ka layo ang 2028.
Former Mayor Mabilog, ginpangabay si Mayor Treñas nga untaton na ang pagpamulitika sa Iloilo City Government
Ginpangabay ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog si Mayor Jerry Treñas nga untaton na ang pagpamulitika sa Iloilo City Government.
Ini kasunod man sang pagtamyaw ni Treñas kay Mabilog kasunod sang paghatag sa iya sang clemency ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga dako ang iya pagpasalamat kay Mayor Treñas sa pag-upod sa iya sang siya ang nagaumpisa pa lamang bilang politiko.
Suno kay Mabilog, may nakit-an lang siya nga mga deperensya nga dapat lang niya ihambal bangud nakaagi man siya alkalde sang syudad.
Ginapauntat man sang anay alkalde ang pagpapromisa sa mga job hire nga maboto sang mga naluyagan ni Treñas nga kandidato.
Nagpanindugan man ang natungdan nga ang iya pagpanawagan ang indi lang tungod sa iya kag sa alkalde ukon sa ambisyon sini.
Gin-athag man ni Mabilog nga ini ang tanan tungod sa mga pumuluyo sang syudad nga yara sa middle class kag pigado.
Ginpahayag man sini nga wala siya nagahimo-himo sang istorya agud nga pakalainon si Treñas bangud ini ang iya nakit-an kag nangin singgit man sang kadam-an.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga gina-abi-abi niya ang paghatag sang executive clemency ni President Bongbong Marcos kay Mabilog kon sa diin, nag-congratulate pa ini sa pamilya sang anay alkalde.
Apisar sini, wala napunggan sang alkalde nga magpabutyag sang iya balatyagon batok kay Mabilog.
Suno kay Treñas, ginkakibot niya ang pagpang-atake sa iya ni Mabilog kasunod man sang ila nga pagkit-anay sa Iloilo City Hall.
Ginsaysay man sini nga pareho sila nga nagkup-anay kag naghibi pa sa isa kag isa.
Para kay Treñas, ginbaton niya sang maayo si Mabilog sa iya pagpadulong sa City Hall apang wala siya naglaum nga maghaboy sang tinaga ang anay akalde batok sa iya liderato.
Gin-ako man sini nga nagsakit ang iya nga buot apang wala siya sang may mahimo bangud yara sila sa pulitika kon sa diin, masami nagaplastikanay.
Apang, sa piyak sini, naghatag sang pagtamyaw si Treñas sa mga nangin maayo nga hinimuan ni Mabilog sa Iloilo City sang siya pa ang alkalde.
Mga senators nga naglantaw sa Dinagyang, wala gin-boo, baliskad sa natabo sa Sinulog
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Mainit nga gin-abi-abi sang mga Ilonggo ang mga myembro sang oposisyon nga naglantaw sa Dinagyang Festival 2025.
Ini ang baliskad naman sa natabo sa Sinulog Festival sa Cebu sa diin gin-boo sanday Senator Risa Hontiveros, former Senator Bam Aquino, Akbayan Partylist 1st nominee nga si Chel Diokno kag former Senator Kiko Pangilinan.
Sang ginpakilala ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, sa baylo nga Boo, hilinugyaw kag pagdayaw ang nabaton sang mga ini.
Matandaan nga sang nagtambong ang mga ini sa Sinulog, nagsinggit ang mga yara sa crowd sang Duterte kag nag-boo.
Apang sa Dinagyang Festival, bisan sin-o nga mga bisita ang wala ginpakahuy-an kag mainit nga ginbaton.
Mga kurap nga opisyal sang gobyerno, ginaduso nga i-firing squad
Sa katuyuan nga papag-unon ang salabton sang mga opisyal sang gobyerno, nag-file si Zamboanga City 1st District.
Nasaad sa hagna nga luyag sini nga ibalik ang death penalty pinaagi sa firing squad para sa mga opisyal sang gobyerno nga mapamatud-an nga nakasala sang graft, sala nga paggamit sang pondo sang gobyerno kag plunder sa Sandiganbayan.
Sakop sang hagna ang tanan nga mga opisyal sang gobyerno, anuman ang rangko ukon posisyon, lakip na ang mga ginboto kag gin-appoint nga opisyal halin sa ehekutibo, lehislatibo, kag hudikatura.
Lakip man diri ang mga opisyal sang constitutional commissions, government-owned and controlled corporations, kag iban pa nga ahensya sang gobyerno
Mangin ang mga miyembro sang Armed Forces of the Philippines kag Philippine National Police ang sakop man sang hagna.
“Binibigyang-diin ng panukala ang pananagutan at paghadlang sa katiwalian, na nagpapakita na ang posisyon sa gobyerno ay isang tiwala ng publiko, at anumang paglabag dito ay nararapat na patawan ng pinakamabigat na parusa,” santo sa paathag sa nakasulat sa hagna.
Olaso, katuyuan sang hagna nga maghatag sang mensahe nga ang graft kag sala nga paggamit sang pondo sang banwa ang indi pagpasugtan.
Pinaagi sa pagbalik sang silot nga kamatayon, luyag sang mamalidha nga mangibabaw ang integridad kag pagsalig sang publiko sa mga institusyon sang gobyerno.
Salvador Panelo, nagapati nga wala sang basehan ang human rights groups kag pamilya sang EJKs sa ila disbarment case batok kay former Pres.
Nagapati ang anay legal adviser ni former President Rodrigo Duterte nga wala sang basehan ang human rights groups kag pamilya sang mga gina-alegar biktima sang extrajudicial killings sa ila pagpasaka sang kaso nga disbarment.
Gindepensahan ni Attorney Salvador Panelo si Duterte, nga nagasiling nga ang kontrobersyal nga mga hambal sang anay presidente sa tion sang mga pagbista sa Senado sa war on drugs ang “hyperbolic” kag indi magpadayon sa korte.
Ang kaso ginpasaka sang Biernes sang Human Rights Group nga Karapatan, kaupod ang mga religious leaders kag advocates.
Gintumod nila ang testimonya ni Duterte sa Senado, sa diin gin-ako sini ang pagpaguwa sang “kill orders” bilang kabahin sang kampanya sang iya administrasyon batuk sa iligal nga droga.
Ang mga petitioners nagasiling nga ang mga aksyon ni Duterte naglapas sa Code of Professional Responsibility and Accountability (CPRA) kag nagpakita sang pagginawi nga indi nagakabagay sa isa ka abogado.
Ginpamatukan ni Panelo ang mga alegasyon, nga nagasiling, “Wala siya sang nahimo nga indi maayo nga buhat ukon naglapas sang bisan ano nga kasuguan bilang katapo sang Bar.”
Dugang pa niya nga gin-insister nga wala sang pag-ako sang mga pagpamatay nga wala sa korte kag ang mga pahayag sang mga human rights advocates ang ginpasobrahan kag indi ini pag-usisaon sa korte.
Jam-jam Baronda, nagpasalamat kay Mayor Treñas sa paghilway sini sa syudad sa politika kaangot sa pagselebrar sang Dinagyang Festival 2025
Nagpasalamat si Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne “Jam-jam” Baronda kay Mayor Jerry Treñas sa paghilway sini sa syudad sa politika kaangot sa palaabuton nga Dinagyang Festival 2025.
Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga importante ang pagtuo kag debosyon sa pagselebrar sang Dinagyang Festival.
Nagapati man ini nga labing-importante ang ‘unity’ sa selebrasyon.
May imbitasyon man ukon wala, magapakigbahin sa gihapon ang natungdan sa sadsad sa Calle Real, sa mga tribu, kag pumuluyo nga nangin tradisyon naman sini halin pa sang lamharon pa lang ini.
Gin-athag man sini nga sa subong, wala pa siya sang may nabaton nga invitation letter halin sa city government.
Kon balikan, nagpaguwa sang Executive Order 167 si Mayor Jerry Treñas nga nagadumili sa political colors nga posible magamit sa Dinagyang Festival.
Jam-jam Baronda, ginkakibot ang pagpatigayon sang Iloilo City Government sang opening sang Sunset Boulevard, apisar nga proyekto ini sang DPWH-6
Baronda iya ginpahayag nga ginkatingala niya nga Iloilo City Government ang nagpreparar sang sulat nga ginpadala sa iya.
Suno kay Baronda, madumduman pa niya ang pagtinguha niya agud mapondohan ang Sunset Boulevard nga legasiya ni Former Senator Franklin Drilon antes paman ini nakapanaog sa pwesto.
Paathag niya, wala naman sang kaso para sa iya kun sin-o man ang mapatigayon sang ribbon cutting para sa nasambit nga proyekto bangud ang importante lang nga magamit na ini sang publiko.
Gintugyan nalang ni Baronda sa Department of Public Works and Highways ang pagpaathag sa pumuluyo nga naga-kwestyon kag natingala nga Iloilo City Government ang nagpatigayon sang pagtililipon para sa pagbukas sang nasambit nga proyekto.
Ginkumpirma man ni Baronda nga matambong ini sa opening ceremony sa Enero 24, 2025.
Defensor Jr., wala nakatambong sa 5th CDSA Meet; Rep.
Boboy Tupas, ginpangunahan ang kahiwatan
Tupas, iya ginpahayag nga naintindihan niya nga kalabanan sa mga opisyal sang Iloilo ang busy rason nga wala nakatambong sa amo nga kahiwatan.
Suno kay Tupas, ginakalipay niya ang liwat nga pag-host sang Barotac Viejo sa CDSA Meet bangud kapin duha na ka dekada sang ulihi nag-host ang amo nga banwa.
Gin-abi-abi man sang mamalidha ang presensya ni Iloilo Vice Governor Ting-ting Garin nga kilala man nga kaalyado ni Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr.
Wala naman makatambong sa aktibidad si Governor Defensor bangud sa nagpadulong ini sa banwa sang San Dionisio agud magtambong sang inagurasyon sang teen center.
Nahibaluan nga si Anilao, Iloilo Mayor Lee Ann Debuque ang napilian ni Governor Defensor nga mangin ka-tandem sa 2025 midterm elections bilang iya bise-gobernadora, kon sa diin, makasumpong sini si Rep.
COMELEC, gin-athag nga indi na kinahanglan sang presensya sang ila katapo sa pagpatuman sang check point para sa 2025 midterm elections
Gin-athag sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) nga indi na kinahanglan sang presensya sang ila katapo sa pagpatuman sang check point para sa ginapatuman nga gun ban kaangot sa 2025 midterm elections.
Reinier Layson, supervisor sang Commission on Elections – Iloilo Province, iya ginpahayag nga masarangan na sang katapo sang Philippine National Police (PNP) kag sang Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) ang pagpatuman sang check point sa probinsya.
Suno kay Layson, pahanugotan lamang nga magdala sang armas ang isa ka indibidwal kon nakagawad sang certificate of authority halin sa ila opisina.
Sa subong, may yara sang masobra isa ka libo ka mga indibidwal sa bug-os nga Pilipinas ang exempted sa gun ban bangud sa may certificate of authority.
Nagpasalig man ang natungdan nga naka-heightened alert ang otoridad kag pila ka security agency sang gobyerno subong nga may gun ban.
Nagpanugyan man si Layson sa publiko ilabi na sa mga may armas nga likawan anay nga dal-on ini sa pampubliko nga lugar.
Mayor Jerry Treñas, ginpasiguro nga ‘free from tarpaulins’ sang mga kandidato sang 2025 midterm elections ang Dinagyang Festival 2025
Ginpasiguro ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga ‘free from tarpaulins’ sang mga kandidato sang 2025 midterm elections ang palaabuton nga Dinagyang Festival 2025.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga lakip sa ginpangkakas ang mga tarpaulins sang iya grupo nga Team Uswag agud mapabilin nga wala sang lakot sang pulitika ang annual religious activity.
Suno kay Treñas, ang tinutuyo lamang sang tikang amo ang indi mahatag sang political colors ang aktibidad ilabi na nagahilapit ang eleksyon.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala sang problema kon magpatuman sang political rally ang pila ka mga grupo kadungan sang Dinagyang Festival, basta siguraduhon lamang nga sa sagwa ini sang Iloilo City Proper.
Una na nga nagpaguwa ang alkalde sang Executive Order 167 nga may nakasaad sa pagdumili sang any political slogans kag propaganda nga naga-promote sa isa ka pulitiko.
Lakip man sa paragraph A, B, C, and D section 1 sang EO, ang pagbawal sang mga election materials kaangay sang printed kag visual materials nga may itsura kag pangalan sang mga kandidato.
2025 elections: Chavit Singson, indi na magdayon sa pagpadalagan sa pagka-senador
Indi na magdayon sa pagpadalagan sa pagka-senador si anay Ilocos Sur governor Chavit Singson.
Sa isa ka speech sa Pasay City, ginpahayag sang 83-anyos nga pulitiko nga nag-withdraw siya sang iya kandidatura sa 2025 elections para mas pasulabihon ang iya ikaayong lawas.
Pahayag sini, bisan nga may treatment na siya sa ginsuprer nga pneumonia, kinahanglan gihapon niya ang pahuway kag basi indi sini masarangan ang pagpangampanya.
“Matapos ang mahabang pag iisp, ang desisyon ko po hindi na po ako tutuloy sa aking kandidatura sa senado,” pahayag sini.
“Ayokong ipilit kung ang aking kalusugan ang maaring magdusa.”
“Ramdam ko po ang inyong pagmamahal sa akin at inyong patuloy na paniniwala sa akin.
Ang overwheming na suporta, alam ko na puso ko panalo na ako,” dugang sini.
“Hindi po biro ang kampanya, lalo na ang trabaho ang isang senador, kung talagang magtatrabaho.
Ang aking kalusugan ay maaring magdusa… Sa totoo lang, tumakas na lang ako sa ospital dahil ayaw nila akong palabasin.
Bagamat nagamot nila ang pneumonia, kailangan ko raw ng mahabang panahon ng pahinga,” kabahin pa sang iya nga speech.
Ginpromisa ni Singson nga bisan nag-atras na siya sa eleksyon, magapadayon siya sa paghatag sang electric vehicles sa transport groups.
Sang ginpatigayon ang filing sang certificates of candidacy, matandaan nga ginpromisa man anay ni Singson nga maghatag sang bank accounts sa mga nagakinahanglan.
Ginkumpirma ni House Secretary General Reginald Velasco nga beripikado na ang tatlo ka impeachment complaints batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte kag handa na nga ipasa sa opisina ni House Speaker Martin Romualdez sa bisan ano nga oras.
Apang suno kay Velasco, gusto sini hatagan sang tyempo ang iban nga mga mamalidha tubtub sa masunod nga semana agud nga maka-desisyon kun may ipalagas pa nga ikaapat nga complaint ukon iendorso nila ang tatlo ka existing complaints.
Kun may hingyo man ang iban nga kongresista nga kinahanglan pa ang dugang nga tyempo, ginpahayag ni Velasco nga diskusyunan anay nila ini kaupod sa House leaders.
Ginpanginwala man sang House Secretary General nga ginapabuyan-buyanan sini ang impeachment complaints.
Ang iya paghulat suno sa iya ang nag-ugat sa request sang madamo nga kongresista.
Naka-break man ang Kongreso halin sang Disyembre 21 kag maga-resume sang session sa masunod nga semana.
So wala rin gagawin ang House kung on break pa sila.
Wala namang mapapala kung i-transmit ko kaagad kung wala pa rin session.
Kasi nakalagay sa rules, 10 session days ang Speaker,” dugang sini.
Base sa recent Social Weather Stations survey, 4 sa 10 Filipinos ang nagasuporta sa pag-impeach kay Vice President Duterte samtang nakasaad naman sa Pulse Asia survey nga mayorya sang mga Pinoy ang nagasuporta sa imbestigasyon sang House Quad Comm sa ginaalegar nga extra-judicial killings sa idalom sang administrasyon ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte.
Una naman nga gin-insister ni Sara nga pagpang-harass ini sa pulitika bangud ginakabig siya nga threat sa 2028 presidential elections.
Gin-anunsyo ni Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau ang iya resignation bilang lider sang Liberal Party kag pagpanaog man sa pwesto bilang prime minister kun may mapili na nga bag-o nga lider ang ruling party.
Pahayag sini, magapabilin siya anay subong bilang prime minister apang sa caretaker capacity.
11 ka tuig nga ginpangunahan ni Trudeau ang Liberal Party kag siyam ka tuig naman sa pwesto bilang prime minister antes sini ginpaguwa ang desisyon.
Ginalantaw nga gin-unahan lang sini ang desisyon sang Canada bangud may general election man nga hiwaton subong nga tuig kag ginapanan-aw na ang iya kalutusan.
Patigayunon ang piniliay antes ukon mismo sa Oktubre 20, apang sa idalom ni Trudeau, madamo ang nagsiling nga mapierde na ang Liberal Party batok sa oposisyon nga Conservative Party nga ginapangunahan ni Pierre Poilievre.
Matandaan nga nagtay-og gid ang administrasyon ni Trudeau sang nag-resign ang iya Deputy Prime Minister kag Finance Minister nga si Chrystia Freeland inoras antes ang pagdeliver kuntani sini sang annual fiscal update.
Ginpaulanan sini sang kritisismo ang “political gimmicks” ni Trudeau lakip na ang two-month sales tax holiday kag 250 Canadian dollar ($175) rebates para sa kadam-an nga workers.
Ginhimo ini sa tunga sang seryoso nga pamahog ni US President-elect Donald Trump sa mas daku nga taripa sa Canadian goods nga magasulod sa Estados Unidos.
Ginapakanubo man ni Trump si Trudeau kag ang Canada sa social media kun sa diin gintawag sini ang prime minister bilang “governor” sang “Great State of Canada.”
Nahibaluan nga antes sini, tatlo ka beses nga na-eleher si Trudeau bilang prime minister.
Sang 2021 amo ang iya ulihi nga pagdaog apang nadulaan sang governing majority rason nga nakakuha sang lead ang Conservative Party sa Liberal Party sang masobra 20% sa national polling averages.
Net trust ratings nanday Marcos kag Sara, lunsay nagnubo — SWS survey
Lunsay nagnubo ang net trust ratings nanday President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Suno sa survey nga gin-komisyon sang Stratbase Consultancy, halin sa 33% nga trust rating sang presidente sang Septyembre, nagnubo ini sa 29% sang Disyembre.
Base pa diri, 98% ang nakakilala kay Marcos; 54% ang nagasiling nga may salig sila; 19% ang indi maka-desisyon; kag 25% ang may gamay lamang nga salig sa iya.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagnubo man sang sais porsyento ang trust rating ni Sara halin sa 29% sang Septyembre kag 23% na lamang sa Disyembre.
Suno sa poll, 98% ang nakakilala kay Sara; 52% ang nagasiling nga may salig sila; 17 ang indi maka-desisyon; kag 29% ang may gamay lamang nga salig sa iya.
Ang sampling error margins amo ang ±2% sa national percentages, ±3% sa Balance Luzon, kag ±5% para sa Metro Manila, Visayas, kag Mindanao.
Approval kag trust ratings nanday Marcos kag VP Duterte, pareho nga nagnubo — survey
kag Vice President Sara Duterte base sa resulta sang latest survey sang Pulse Asia nga gin-conduct halin sang Nobyembre 26-Disyembre 3.
Nakasaad nga nagpanaog ang approval rating ni Marcos sa 48 percent halin sa 50 percent nga iya nakuha sang Septyembre.
Ang iya trust rating nag-us-os man sa 47 percent halin sa 50 percent sang amo man nga bulan.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagtupa na lamang sa 50 percent ang approval rating para sa bise-presidente nga may double-digit ukon 10-point decrease halin sa 60 percent nga iya gin-enjoy sang Septyembre.
Nagsarurot man ang iya trust rating sa 49 percent halin sa 61 percent sang nasambit nga bulan.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nakabaton si Senate President Chiz Escudero sang highest approval kag trust scores nga may 53 percent kag 51 percent.
Ang pinakamanubo naman nga ratings amo ang iya ni House Speaker Martin Romualdez nga may approval kag trust scores nga yara sa 44 percent.
Ginpatigayon ang survey kadungan sang pila ka dalagku nga developments sa pungsod kaangay sang impeachment cases nga gin-file batok kay Sara sa una nga semana sang Disyembre.
Dungan man ini sa pagpakita na ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa House Quad Committee nga naga-imbestigar sa drug war.
Natabo man ang survey sang ginpirmahan ni Marcos ang duha ka layi nga nagaplastar sang boundaries sang Philippine maritime zones agud pangapinan ang teritoryo sang Pilipinas.
Gin-conduct ang survey sa 2,400 respondents nga nagaedad 18-anyos pasaka sa bilog nga pungsod.
Petisyon nga ginduso agud i-disqualify si Quiboloy sa 2025 elections, ginbasura sang Comelec
Ginbasura sang Commission on Elections (Comelec) ang gin-file nga petisyon nga nagatuyo nga i-disqualify ang arestado nga pastor nga si Apollo Quiboloy sa 2025 senatorial elections.
Sa desisyon sang Comelec First Division nga napetsahan sang Disyembre 18, ginpahayag nga kulang ang gin-presentar nga ebidensya sang petitioner kag wala sini na-kumbinse ang division nga ideklarar ang respondent bilang nuisance candidate sa palaabuton nga eleksyon.
Kun matandaan, ang labor leader nga si Sonny Matula amo ang nag-file sang petisyon nga i-disqualify si Quiboloy bangud sa ginaalegar nga “material misrepresentation”.
Ginpahayag sini nga ang ginplastar ni Quiboloy nga nominasyon halin sa Workers’ and Peasants’ Party (WPP) ang wala sang matuod kag legal nga basehan.
Sang amo nga tion, ginbutang ni Quiboloy sa iya nga certificate of nomination and acceptance (CONA) ang pirma ni certain Mark Tolentino, apang suno kay Matula, indi matuod nga halin ini ukon miyembro sang WPP.
Suno naman sa Comelec, wala naka-comply ang petitioners sa procedural rules bangud ang ila petisyon nga ideklarar si Quiboloy bilang nuisance candidate ang gin-impunan sang iban pa nga grounds kag remedies.
Suno pa sa poll body, ang petisyon ni Matula ang naghatag sang grounds nga indi husto kag wala sang “factual” kag “legal evidence.”
We do not agree,” suno sa desisyon sang Comelec.
Sang Oktubre 21, matandaan nga nagpahayag ang kampo ni Quiboloy nga magapadalagan na lamang ini bilang independent candidate sa 2025 elections.
September 2024 sang nadakpan si Quiboloy matapos ang binulan nga pagpanago sa otoridad.
Nagapangatubang ini sang kaso nga sexual abuse of a minor, child abuse, kag qualified trafficking sa duha ka separado nga mga korte sa Pilipinas.
Magluwas diri, yara man siya sa Most-Wanted list sa Federal Bureau of Investigation sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika halin pa sang 2022 bangud sa sex trafficking of children kag promotional money laundering.
Si Colada ang bana ni Guimbal, Iloilo Mayor Jennifer Garin-Colada.
Sa subong, nagapangatubang naman si Duterte sang ikatatlo nga impeachment complaint sa House of Representatives.
May 12 ka mga complainants sa nasambit nga impeachment complaint sa diin ginalakipan ini sang mga abogado, pari, non-government organization (NGO) workers halin sa Mindanao kag sa iban pa nga bahin sang pungsod.
Ang ginrason sang mga ini sa pag-file sang impeachment complaint batok kay Duterte amo ang graft and corruption kag betrayal of public trust.
Lakip sa mga grupo nga nakakuha sang atensyon nga nag-file sang impeachment complaint amo ang National Union of Peoples’ Lawyer (NUPL-Mindanao).
Ang reklamo ang naangot sa gihapon sa ginapahayag maanomaliya nga paggamit ni Duterte sang confidential funds sang Office of the Vice President (OVP) kag Department of Education (DepEd).
Nagpasalig naman ang mga complainants kag endorsers nga magpagwa sang dugang nga mga pahayag sa tion nga matapos na ang filing procedures.
Nahibaluan nga antes ang bag-o nga impeachment complaint, may yara na sang duha ka pending nga reklamo nga gin-file sa House of Representatives.
Lakip sa mga nag-file sang duha ka nauna nga impeachment complaints amo ang civil society kag militant organizations.
VP Sara Duterte, nagapangatubang sang ikatatlo nga impeachment complaint
‘Naiintindihan ko na gusto ng INC ng kapayapaan’ — VP Sara sa rally nga himuon sang Iglesia ni Cristo
Ginpahayag ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga nahangpan niya nga kalinong gid ang gusto sang Iglesia ni Cristo (INC) rason sang ila ginpaguwa nga statement sang nagligad nga semana.
Matandaan nga nagsiling ang religious group nga magapatigayon sila sang rally agud nga pamatukan ang impeachment complaints batok sa bise-presidente.
Sabat ni Sara, “Naiintindihan ko na gusto ng INC ng kapayapaan sa ating bansa dahil alam nila na kapag merong kapayapaan susunod din ‘yung kaunlaran ng ating bansa.”
Dugang sini, “naintindihan ko ‘yung pagsuporta nila sa opisina ng ating Pangulo, sa opisina ng Office of the Vice President kasi ‘yun din naman ang gusto ng lahat ng mga kababayan natin na mayroong kapayapaan at merong tuluy-tuloy na kaunlaran sa ating bansa.”
Base sa statement sang INC sang nagligad nga semana, himuon nila ang rally bangud pabor sila sa opinyon ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
nga indi na dapat pag-i-iduso ang complaint batok kay Sara kundi dapat unahon sang gobyerno ang mga problema diri sa Pilipinas.
Ginpahangop man sang INC nga luyag nila ang kalinong kag indi sila luyag sang anuman nga kagamo nga maghalin sa bisan diin nga kampo.
“Ang mga kapatid sa INC ay naghahanda na magsagawa ng rally upang ipahayag sa lahat ng kinauukulan na ang INC ay pabor sa opinyon ni Pangulong Bongbong Marcos na hindi sumang-ayon sa isinusulong ng ilang sektor na impeachment dahil maraming problema ang ating bansa na dapat unahin ng pamahalaan,” kabahin sang statement.
Ayaw natin sa anumang uri ng kaguluhan na manggagaling sa anumang panig,” dugang diri.
Nahibaluan nga duha na ka impeachment complaints ang opisyal nga na-file sa Kamara batok kay Sara.
Ang una ang ginpasaka sang civil society organizations samtang ang ikaduha naman ang gin-file sang mga mamalidha halin sa Makabayan bloc bangud sa ginaalegar nga “betrayal of public trust.”
May impormasyon man halin kay House Secretary General Reginald Velasco nga may ikatatlo pa gid nga complaint nga iga-file antes magtakop ang masunod nga semana, apang wala pa sang detalye nga nahatag.
Nahibaluan nga ang INC isa ka 110-year-old Christian church nga may 2.8 million members.
Nagsuporta ini sa UniTeam nga tandem anay nanday Marcos kag Sara sang 2022 elections.
Kun balikan ang developments sini lang nga tuig, apisar nag-away na ang mga Marcos kag Duterte, pareho gihapon sila nga nagapangaluyag para sa suporta sang INC executive minister nga si Eduardo V.
Sang Oktubre 1, nagbisita ang vice president sa INC Central Office kag sang Oktubre 10 naman, nagkadto man si former President Rodrigo Duterte kaupod ang iya long-time aide nga si Senator Bong Go.
Sang Oktubre 29 naman, si Marcos naman ang nagbisita kay Manalo kaupod si First Lady Liza Araneta-Marcos kag ila bata nga si Ilocos Norte 1st District Representative Sandro Marcos.
Sang mismo 69th birthday naman ni Manalo sang October 31, may regalo si Marcos nga amo ang presidential declaration.
Gindeklarar sini nga himuon nga non-working holiday ang Hulyo 27,2025 nga amo ang 111th foundation anniversary sang INC (apang magatupa man ini sa Domingo nga adlaw.)
Kinaandan na nga todo-pangaluyag ang mga pulitiko sa INC bangud sa ila election promise nga amo ang “bloc voting system” kun sa diin tanan nila nga miyembro ang required nga magboto kun sin-o man ang mga kandidato nga napilian sang simbahan.#
PSA, ginbulgar nga peke nga tawo ang mga kalabanan sa mga recipients sang confidential funds halin kay VP Sara Duterte
Joel Chua, ang 677 ka mga indibidwal ang nagbaton sang confidential funds santo sa acknowledgement receipts nga ginpasa sang OVP kag DEPED sa Commission on Audit (COA) para sa liquidation.
“Tayo ay sumulat upang isumite ang 677 pang pangalan na nakalagay sa acknowldgement receipts kung saan tayo po ay binigyan ng tugon ng Philippine Statistics Authority dated December 8, 2024.
Dito [ay] kanila pong sinasabi na out of 677 individuals, 405 ay walang birth certificate o walang record sa birth certificate, o pwede nating sabihin na non-existent,” pahayag ni Chua.
Una diri, ginbulgar man sang PSA nga ang certain ‘Mary Grace Piattos’ nga recipient sang confidential funds nga nasaad sa acknowledgment receipts, ang wala sang birth, marriage, ukon death record sa ila database.
Matandaan nga ginpahayag ni Chua nga ang OVP kag DepEd sa idalom ni Duterte ang nagpasa sang makaduluda nga acknowledgement receipts nga may sala nga petsa kag non-legible signatories.
Todo panginwala naman si Duterte sa diin makapila ka beses sini nga gin-athag nga wala ini naggamit sang pondo kag isa lang ini ka test run para sa impeachment case batok sa iya.
Sa subong, may duha na ka impeachment complaints nga ginpasaka batok sa Vice President bangud sa ginapahayag betrayal of public trust, sa diin gin-akusaran ini nga wala naggamit sang confidential funds sang insakto.
Ano ang rason kag proseso sang impeachment?
Ginpatpat sang political analyst ang proseso sang ‘impeachment’ ukon ang pagkakas sa puwesto sang ikaduha nga pinakataas nga opisyal sang pungsod.
Ini ang sa tunga man sang pagpasaka sang ikaduha nga impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte sa Kamara.
Katuyuan sang nasambit nga reklamo nga mapahalin sa pwesto ang bise presidente.
Nelson Borja, trial lawyer nga naga-specialize sa criminal cases, iya ginpahayag nga mahimo ma-impeach ang isa ka opisyal base sa apat ka rason:
Treason ukon pag-apin sa kasumpong nga pungsod sa tion sang giyera 3.
Suno kay Borja, indi makasuhan ang isa ka impeachable official samtang yara sa puwesto bangud sa ginatawag nga ‘immunity’.
Kinahanglan anay ini nga ma-impeach antes mapasakaan sang kaso.
Una ang impeachment proper nga naga-umpisa sa Kamara sa diin magapungko nga daw kaangay sang piskal ang mga kongresista kag magadesisyon kun sufficient in form and substance ang gin-file nga impeachment complaint.
Kung pareho nga bastante sa form and substance, lantawon nila ang mga ebidensya kung may probable cause.
Kung may yara, ipasaka nila ini sa Senado.
Ang Senado naman ang magaserbe nga hukum kag magadesisyon kung dapat kakason ukon indi ang ang bise presidente.
Sa tion nga ang kaso ang napasaka na sa Senado, ang isa ka impeachable officer kaangay ni Duterte ang ma-impeach.
Chinese businessman Tony Yang nga ginpreso bangud sa pagbinutig sa quad comm, gindala sa ospital
Gindala sa ospital para sa medical check-up ang Chinese businessman nga si Tony Yang.
Ini ang ginkumpirma sang iya legal counsel nga si Atty.
Si Tony ang utod sang anay adviser ni former President Rodrigo Duterte nga si Michael Yang.
Samtang ang utod naman sini nga si Michael ang gintumod ni Sen.
Risa Hontiveros nga involve sa intelligence operations sang China.
“May iniinda siya, may nararamdaman po sa baga.
Even before po siya inaresto, nagpa-check-up siya sa Singapore at ayun po ang findings sa kanya ng mga doctor,” pahayag ni Atty.
Wala naistoryahan ang impeachment batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte sa ginpatigayon nga fellowship’ ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Joel Chua, nagpadulong ang mga kongresista kag party leaders agud maghatag sang resolusyon nga nagapakita sang suporta sang Kamara sa Presidente.
Nagpunta lang po dun kasama ‘yung ibang congressman ata party leaders, binigay lang sa Presidente yung resolusyon na ipasa ng House expressing full support to the President,” pahayag ni Chua.
Ginpahayag ni Chua nga nagpasalamat ang presidente sa mga myembro sang Kamara kag ginpanugyanan nga magtrabaho.
Matapos sini, nagkaon na ang mga ini kag nagpakuha sang picture.
“Pagkatapos po nung nagsalita po ang Pangulo, nagpasalamat sa mga miyembro at in-encourage na magtrabaho lang.
Tapos po ay nagkaroon ng konting picture taking, nagkaroon ng dinner,” dugang pa ni Chua.
Nagdangat sa 200 ka mga myembro sang Kamara ang present sa ‘fellowship’.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang presidente nga wala niya ginasuportahan ang anuman nga plano nga impeachment batok sa bise presidente, nga nangin running mate sini sag 2022 elections.
Sa iya nga speech, nagpanawagan si Marcos sa militar nga magtindog kag magdampig sa Konstitusyon kag para sa mga Pilipino.
Ginplastar man sang presidente ang responsibilidad kag ang importante nga papel sang militar sa pagtib-ong sang integridad sang nasyon kag sa pagpasiguro sang safety kag seguridad sang mga Pilipino.
Ginpahangop man sini sa iya speech nga dapat magtindog ang uniformed personnel para sa kamatuoran.
Ginpahayag man sini nga indi magpalingkang ang iya administrasyon kag magapadayon sa pagpabaskog sang institusyon kag sa rule of law sang pungsod.
Ini nga speech ni Marcos ang natabo matapos ginbungguan na naman sang China Coast Guard (CCG) kag gingamitan sang water cannon ang barko sang Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) sa Bajo de Masinloc sa West Philippine Sea.
May mga nagaangot man sa sini nga speech sa panawagan ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte sa military sang nagligad nga semana nga proteksyunana ng Constitution sang Pilipinas — bagay nga ginakabig na sang iban nga government officials nga katumbas sang panawagan sa kudeta.#
Marcos, mga kongresista, nagtipon sa Malacañang para sa ‘fellowship’
Ginkumpirma sang Malacañang nga nagkitaay sanday President Ferdinand ‘Bongbong’ Marcos, Jr.
Suno sa Presidential Communications Office (PCO), may ginpatigayon nga “fellowship” sa tunga sang presidente kag House members kag madugay na ini naka-schedule.
Wala pa ginsapubliko sang palasyo kun pila gid ka mga mamalidha ang nagtambong sa amo nga meeting kag kun ano nga mga isyu ang ila nga gin-istoryahan.
Natabo ini nga meeting kadungan man sang mga impeachment complaint nga ginapangatubang ni Vice President Sara Duterte.
Sang Lunes kag kahapon, Miyerkules, gin-file sang progresibo nga mga grupo ang reklamo bangud sa mga basehan kaangay sang ginaalegar mga anomaliya sa paggamit ni Sara sang confidential funds sa OVP kag sa Department of Education.
Resulta sang impeachment ni VP Sara, tuman pa ka temprano agud pakton – political analyst
Wala na ginkakibot pa sang isa ka political analyst ang ginpasaka nga impeachment complaint sa Kamara batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ang basehan sang impeachment ang kaangot sa grave threat sang bise presidente sa kabuhi ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
kag ang kuwestyonable nga paggasto sa iya confidential fund nga indi niya mapaathag.
Suno kay Pueblo, may duha ka proseso ang impeachment.
Ang Senado naman ang magaserbe nga hukum kag magadesisyon kung dapat kakason ukon indi ang bise presidente.
Apang sa subong, tuman naman pa ka temprano suno kay Pueblo agud pakton kung positibo ukon negatibo ang resulta sang nasambit nga tikang.
PNP, ginklaro nga wala sang lamod-pulitika ang mga gin-file nga kaso vs Sara Duterte
Gin-athag sang Philippine National Police (PNP) nga indi politically-motivated ang mga kaso nga ginapasaka batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte kag sa iya mga security personnel.
Suno kay PNP chief General Rommel Francisco Marbil, kabahin sang constitutional mandate sang PNP nga ipatuman ang layi sang patas ukon wala sang pag-apin bisan ano pa ang status kag political affiliation sang isa ka tawo.
Pahayag pa sini, kun indi maghulag ang mga pulis, madula ang salig sang publiko sa ila pag-abot sa law enforcement.
Posible suno kay Marbil nga magawangal ang mga tawo nga mga pigado lang ang ginasilutan.
Posible man suno sa iya nga may maghambal nga nahadlok ang mga pulis sa pagpatuman sang layi sa iban nga mga indibidwal.
Ginpaathag man sini nga may natun-an na sila sa nagliligad nga mga kontrobersiya nga ginkaulamiran sang mga pulis kaangay sang “tokhang” campaign kun sa diin gin-akusaran ang law enforcement nga naga-target lamang sang marginalized communities.
Ginpasalig man sini nga mangin patas sila kag sundon gid ang due process.
Matandaan nga mga kaso nga grave coercion, disobedience to persons in authority kag direct assault ang gin-file sang PNP batok kay Duterte, iya security head nga si Col.
Zuleika Lopez halin sa House of Representatives pakadto sa Veterans Memorial Medical Center sang nagligad nga Nobyembre 23.
‘Huwag kayong nalilinlang’ — Marcos sa militar sa tunga sang nagasingki nga away-pulitika
Kadungan sang nagasaka nga tension sa pulitika sa Pilipinas partikular na sa tunga sang mga Marcos kag Duterte, nagpahanumdom si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
sa militar nga magpabilin nga tampad sa ila misyon nga proteksyunan ang mga Pilipino kag indi magpatiplang sa gahod sang mga pulitiko.
Sa iya pag-atubang sa mga opisyal kag tropa sa Southern Luzon Command sa Camp Guillermo Nakar sa Lucena City, Quezon, ginpahayag sang chief executive nga dapat nga naka-focus gid ang pwersa-militar sang Pilipinas.
Amo ini ang sabat sang presidente matapos nga nagpaguwa man sang statement si former President Rodrigo Duterte sang nagligad nga gab-i nga nagapanawagan sa militar nga tadlungon ang guba nga pangginahum ni Marcos.
Apang pahayag ni Marcos, indi niya trabaho nga magpangita sang kontra ukon atubangon ang mga wala sang pulos nga bagay.
Ginplastar sini nga ang iya trabaho amo nga paayuhon ang kabuhi sang mga Pilipino.
“Huwag kayong nalilinlang sa mga nangyayari.
Ako, ganoon ang isip, pagka maraming maingay ang nangyayari, iniisip ko lagi: ano ba talaga trabaho ko?
Trabaho ko makipagdebate diyan sa mga walang kwentang bagay?” suno sa president.
Ang trabaho ko ay pagandahin ang Pilipinas.”
Gindugang man sini nga kun may pagpang-duha-duha man subong sa pinsar sang militar, dapat nila balikan ang ila misyon nga amo ang paghatag sang proteksyon sa mga tawo kag sa bilog nga republika sang Pilipinas.
And kung nadi-distract tayo – siyempre maraming sigaw, maraming ingay – ‘pag nadi-distract tayo at sabi papaano na ito?
Madali iyan, madali ang sagot diyan: Ano ba ang mission ko?
Iyon, ‘yun ang tutuparin ko,” dugang ni Marcos.
Una na nga gin-athag sang AFP nga indi na kinahanglan ang loyalty check sa ila tropa bangud nagapabilin sila nga tampad sa chain of command.
Ang isyu sa loyalty check ang sa tunga sang kahangawa sang posible matabo nga kudeta bangud sa away nanday President Marcos kag anay ka-tandem sini nga si Vice President Sara Duterte.#
‘We will not break’: Sara Duterte, nagpasalamat sa suporta sa mga OVP personnel
Nagpasalamat si Vice President Sara Duterte sa professionals nga nagbulig sa mga personnel sang Office of the Vice President (OVP) nga apektado sang krisis nga gina-atubang sang opisina sa tunga sang sampaw-sampaw nga mga kontrobersiya.
Sa video message ni Sara, lakip sa iya ginpasalamatan amo ang mga doctor kag mga abogado.
Gindugang sini nga ginaproseso na sang mga abogado ang ila nga legal documents kag ginatatap naman sang maayo sang healthcare personnel ang mga staff member sang OVP nga na-ospital.
Suno pa kay Sara, bangud sini nga bulig, mas naka-focus siya kag ang iban niya nga personnel sa iban nga mga bagay kaangay sang OVP thanksgiving, year-end activities, office utilization review, kag pagplano sa calendar year 2025.
Gindugang sini sa iya mensahe nga ginapasalig niya sa mga Pilipino nga bisan sa tion sang krisis kag bisan wala sila sang resources, magatindog gihapon sila nga mapag-on para nga makaserbisyo.
Nagapangatubang si Sara sang imbestigasyon sa ginaalegar mga anomaliya sa iya paggamit sang P125 million confidential funds nga wala sa 2022 General Appropriations Act.
Bangud sa sini nga imbestigasyon, nagakalipong kag nagaka-ospital ang iya mga personnel kun mag-atubang na sa Kamara.
Lakip sa yara subong sa Veterans Memorial Medical Center (VMMC) amo si OVP Chief of Staff Zuleika Lopez nga una nga gindagdan sang contempt order kag ang Special Disbursing Officer nga si Gina Acosta nga naglain ang pamatyag sang nag-atubang sa House good government panel sini nga semana.
Magluwas diri, gina-imbestigaran man si Sara bangud sa iya komento nga naangot sa asasinasyon matapos gin-ako sini nga may ginmanduan siya nga kun may magpatay sa iya, patyon man si President Marcos Jr, First Lady Liza Marcos kag Speaker Martin Romualdez.
Bongbong Marcos, ginkumpirma nga siya ang nagpadala sang private communication agud punggan ang impeachment batok kay VP Sara Duterte
nga nagpadala siya sang mensahe sa iya mga kaalyado nga indi na pagpadayunon ang pag-file sang impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ini ang kasunod man sang paglapta sang nasambit nga mensahe kahapon, Nobyembre 29.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Marcos sa iya pagbisita sa Lucena City, Quezon, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga mensahe ang isa kuntani na private communication.
Suno kay Marcos, nakibot ini nga nag-leak na ang nasambit nga mensahe.
Ginpahayag sang presidente nga kaugalingon niya nga opinion nga indi importante nga tawo si Duterte kag indi man dapat pag-uyangan sang tyempo ang impeachment sa iya.
Kun madayon ang impeachment suno sa presidente, kaunon lang sini ang tyempo sang Senado kag Kamara.
Magluwas diri, wala man ini sang mayo nga madulot suno sa presidente sa kabuhi sang mga Pilipino.
Samtang, daw kaangay nga wala man nagakadulaan sang paglaom ang presidente nga magbalik sa maayo ang ila relasyon ni Duterte.
Rodrigo Duterte, mahimo i-subpoena man sang NBI
Kasunod ini sang iya kontrobersyal nga statement samtang nagalala ang away ni Sara kag sang Marcos administration.
Sa iya late-night press conference subong nga semana, matandaan nga nagpanawagan ang former president sa pulis kag militar nga proteksyunan ang Constitution.
Wala ini direkta nga nagpanawagan sang kudeta apang ginsiling sini nga may fracture sa gobyerno subong kag ang military lamang ang makahatag sang solusyon.
Para naman sa Malacañang, katumbas na ini sa paghaylo sa pwersa-militar nga maglunsar sang kudeta para nga masipa-pahalin si Marcos.
Suno kay DOJ Undersecretary Jesse Andres, may posibilidad gid nga ipatawag ang amay nga Duterte bangud ginasunod sang ahensya ang due process.
Ginsiling ni Andres nga padayon ang pag-monitor sang NBI sa mga ginapanghambal sang anay presidente.
Sa pihak sini, nagpahayag ang opisyal nga professional mga organisasyon ang Philippine National Police kag Armed Forces of the Philippines kag kumpyansa siya nga indi ang mga ini maghilabot sa civil affairs kag civil governance.
Nahibaluan nga una na nga nagdagdag sang subpoena ang NBI kay Sara bangud sa pahayag sini sa online press conference nga may ginmanduan siya nga KUN may magpatay sa iya, patyon man si President Marcos, First Lady Liza Araneta Marcos, kag Speaker Martin Romualdez.#
House leaders, wala sang may ginmandu kaangot sa pag-impeach kay VP Sara — Chua
Joel Chua nga wala sang istoryahanay sa Kamara nga iimpeach si Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ini nga klaripikasyon ang kasunod sang naglapta nga report kahapon nga ginaalegar nagpadala sang text message si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sa House leaders nga nagatulod sa ila nga mag-file sang impeachment complaints batok kay Sara.
Suno kay Chua, wala siya sang nabaton nga komunikasyon nga amo sini halin sa liderato sang Kamara.
“Hindi ko pa po alam yan,” suno kay Chua sa isa ka press conference.
Jay Khonghun ang statement ni Chua nga wala pa sang diskusyon kaangot sa impeachment sa bise-presidente, apang suno kay Khonghun, posible nga indi mapunggan ang iban nga mga kongresista nga suportahan ang kaangay nga mga tikang.
“Well, wala tayong kasiguraduhan kung saan nga po nanggaling yung text messages na iyan pero kung ang pinag uusapan ay impeachment, lahat naman ng tao may karapatan na mag file ng impeachment at siguro nasa kanya-kanyang konsensiya na yan ng mga bawat miyembro ng Kamara kung susuporta sila sa impeachment na may magpa-file…” suno sa mamalidha.
Mismo si Sara ang nagpalutaw nga target gid sang Marcos administration nga kakason siya sa pwesto.
Una naman nga nagpaguwa sang statement ang presidente kag nagsiling nga indi man importante si Sara gani indi kinahanglan ang impeachment complaints bangud iga-distract lamang sila sini sa pagtrabaho sa gobyerno.
Subong nga adlaw kuntani ang hearing sang House committee kaangot sa confidential funds ni Sara apang indi ini anay pagdayunon.
Ginpaathag ni Chua nga hatagan nila sang ligwa ang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) nga nag-require sang presensya ni Sara subong nga adlaw agud magsabat kaangot sa iya “kill order” batok sa president, first lady, kag house speaker.
Nagmando si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr., sa pamunuan sang Kongreso nga punggan ang impeachment ni Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ini ang sa pihak sang wala tuo nga reklamo batok kay Duterte halin sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya.
Ginpahayag sang presidente nga ang pagpasaka sang impeachment complaints kay Duterte ang makasablag lang sa trabaho sang gobyerno nga amo ang pagpasanyog sang kabuhi sang mga Pilipino.
Matandaan nga una na nga nagpaandam si Duterte nga patyon sanday President Marcos, First Lady Liza Araneta Marcos kag House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
AFP chief, ginapa-resign ang mga katapo sang militar nga gusto magpabutyag sang political stand
ang mga aktibo nga miyembro sang militar nga mag-resign na lang kun gusto nila nga mag-intra sa away subong sa pulitika.
Sa iya speech sa AFP Leadership Summit sa Camp Aguinaldo, ginsiling ni Brawner nga dapat nga tampad ang AFP service members sa Constitution.
Samtang suksok nila ang uniporme nila suno sa natungdan, dapat nga proteksyunan ang pungsod kag sundon ang constitution apisar ano pa nila ka gusto nga magpahayag sang ila kaugalingon nga opinyon sa pulitika.
“We recognize that all of us have political opinions, political inclinations, pero habang suot suot po natin ang ating uniporme, ay kailangan sundin natin ang Saligang Batas at protektahan natin ang bansa,” suno kay Brawner.
Kung gusto po natin gawin ‘yon, eh mag-resign na lang tayo.
Hubarin na lang natin ang uniporme natin,” dugang sini.
kag iya pakaisa nga si House Speaker Martin Romualdez bangud sa “fractured governance.”
Nanginwala man si Brawner nga siya ang magabulos sa security group ni Vice President Sara Duterte.
Pahayag sini, napaidalom ini gihapon sa Presidential Security Command.
“Hindi po kayang gawin yun dahil marami po tayong iniisip na iba pang mga security issues ng ating bansa.”
Ginklaro man sang natungdan nga ang hulag sa VPSPG ang kasunod sang pagdagdag sang subpoena halin sa Philippine National Police (PNP) kay Col.
Raymund Dante Lachica, chief sang security detail sang Vice President, kag sa pila sa ila myembro.
Naga-comply lang sila sa subpoena suno sa natungdan para sa imbestigasyon, kag samtang ginahimo ini, may yara sang temporaryo nga magabulos halin sa PNP kag AFP.#
‘We reached the point of no return’ — Sara sa ila nagalala nga relasyon ni BBM
Gin-athag ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga naglab-ot na sa punto nga indi na gid sila mag-uliay ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kasunod sang nagasaka pa nga tensyon sa ila kag sa pulitika diri sa Pilipinas subong nga mga sinemana.
Sa tinaga sang bise-presidente, nalab-ot na nila ang “point of no return.”
Sa utod-utod nga press conference sa Zamboanga City nga naka-live man sa social media page sang vice president, ginsiling sini nga nagapati siya nga ginalagas gid siya sang Marcos administration kag gusto gid siya nga ipakakas sa pwesto.
At gusto nila akong tanggalin sa posisyon,” suno kay Sara.
Running-mates sanday Marcos kag Sara sang 2022 sa idalom sang UniTeam apang amat-amat nga nagtunga ang ila banas tubtub nga nag-resign si Sara sa Gabinete bilang tiglikom sang Department of Education (DepEd).
Naglala ang away tubtub sang nagligad nga semana, nag-ako na si Sara nga may ginmanduan siya nga KUN may magpatay sa iya, patyon man si Marcos, ang house speaker, kag ang house speaker.
Ginpahayag man sini nga matuod gid ang mga pamahog sa iya, sa iya personnel, kag sa iya nga pamilya.
Wala sini maathag nga ginmensyonar kun kay sin-o naghalin ang iya ginaalegar nga mga pamahog, apang ginsugpon sini si House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
Pahayag ni Sara, gusto gid ni Romualdez nga mangin vice president apang wala ini nakahibalo nga indi gusto sang Kongreso nga siya ang magapungko sa posisyon.
Indi man gusto sang mga Pilipino nga mangin presidente ini suno kay Sara, apang suno sa iya, indi ini gihapon mahangpan ni Romualdez tubtub subong.
Una na nga nagsabat ang house speaker nga ginahungod ni Sara ini nga mga pahayag agud maliso ang atensyon sang publiko kag malipatan ang isyu sa confidential funds sang Office of the Vice President kag DepEd.#
AFP, nakabaton sang subpoena halin sa PNP nga imbestigaran ang Security and Protection Group ni Vice President Sara Duterte
Romeo Brawner Jr., nga ginpangayo ni Philippine National Police Chief Gen.
Rommel Francisco Marbil ang pangalan sang mga myembro sang Vice Presidential Security and Protection Group (VPSPG) nga nagbulig agud pwersahan nga isaylo si Vice Presidential Chief of Staff nga si Atty.
Raymund Dante Lachica nga nagtiklod kag nagpanakit sa PNP doctor-in-charge nga possible madagdag sa kaso nga direct assault.
Gin-athag naman ni Brawner nga nakabaton sila sang subpoena halin sa PNP nga imbestigaran ang mga miyembro sang VPSPG kag temporaryo nga ilisan sang mga miyembro sang PNP kag AFP.
Nahibaluan nga ginahitso naman sang PNP ang mga kaso nga ipasaka nila batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte kag sa mga tinawo sini.
VP Sara Duterte kag mga staff sini, pasakaan sang sampaw-sampaw nga mga kaso sang PNP
Ginahitso na sang Philippine National Police (PNP) ang mga kaso nga ipasaka nila batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte kag sa mga tinawo sini.
Suno kay Police Brigadier General Jean Fajardo, spokesperson sang PNP, gina-review na sang Criminal Investigation and Detection Group ang ipasaka nga kaso santo sa layi.
Si Lopez ang na-cite for comtempt sang House Committee on Good Government and Public Accountability bangud sa indi pagsugid sang matuod kaangot sa paggamit sang confidential funds sang bise presidente.
Vice President Sara Duterte, ginserbehan sang subpoena sang NBI bangud sa plano nga pagpapatay kay President Bongbong Marcos
Pormal nga ginbaton sang Office of the Vice President (OVP) ang subpoena halin sa National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) sa Mandaluyong City subong nga adlaw, Nobyembre 26.
Ginhingyo sang NBI nga mag-atubang si Vice President Atty.
Sara Duterte sa ila headquarters sa Manila sa Biyernes, Nobyembre 29.
Ini ang kaangot sa imbestigasyon sa mga reklamo nga grave threats kag posible nga paglapas sa Anti-Terrorism Act.
Una na nga ginhingyo sang NBI sa Facebook nga i-preserve ang video ni Duterte – sa diin ginpahayag sini nga nagkontrata siya sang tawo nga mapatay kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., First Lady Atty.
Martin Romualdez – agud magamit nga ebidensiya.
Iserbe kuntani ang subpoena kay Duterte sang nagtambong siya sa hearing sang Kamara kahapon, Nobyembre 25, apang gab-i na sang nakaabot ang mga tinawo sang NBI sa Batasan Pambansa sa Quezon City, kag samtang nagapakig-angot saHouse Sergeant at Arms, nakahalin na ang Bise Presidente.
Gilayon man nga nagsabat si Duterte nga basahon anay niya ang subpoena antes magpagwa sang statement.
Kampo ni former Capiz Governor Esteban Evan Contreras, gintawag nga political harrassment ang kaso nga ginapasaka sa ila sa Sandiganbayan
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 – Nagpatigayon sang marathon hearing ang Sandiganbayan Fourth Division may kaangtanan sa kaso kriminal nga ginpasaka batok kanday former Capiz Governor Esteban Evan Contreras, former Provincial Administrator Edwin Monares kag Roxas Memorial Provincial Hospital chief Edmarie Tormon.
Una na nga ginhingyo sang mga akusado nga ibasura ang kaso, apang sa apat ka pahina nga resolution sang anti-graft court, ginpapag-on ang kaso nga ginpasaka sang Nobyembre 25, 2021 nanday incumbent Vice Gov.
Jaime Magbanua kag sang mga myembro sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan.
Melanie Madela, executive clerk of court II sang Sandiganbayan Fourth Division, iya ginpahayag nga sanday Contreras kag Tormon ang nagapangatubang sang isa ka count sa paglapas sang Government Procurement Reform Law (RA 9184) bangud sa ginapahayag irregularidad sa pagbakal sang provincial government sang medical supplies sang 2020 sa tion sang COVID-19 pandemic.
Suno kay Madela, nakitaan sang prosecutors sang ebidensya sa ‘unlawful splitting of contracts’ sa pagbakal sang medical supplies pinaagi sa small-value procurement.
May yara naman sang lima ka mga witnesses sa kaso, apang wala ini ginpangalanan sang Sandiganbayan.
Gintawag naman sang kampo ni Contreras nga political harassment ang ginhimo sa ila nanday Monares kag Tormon.
Kaiser Cordero, legal counsel ni Contreras, iya ginpahayag nga ginpanindugan sang mga akusado nga nalapas ang ila constitutional right para sa ‘speedy disposition of cases’ bangud naglawig sang 28 ka bulan ang preliminary investigation sa diin wala ang mga ini mahatagan sang kahigayunan nga makaangkon sang maayo nga depensa.
Apang suno naman sa Sandiganbayan, napaslawan ang kampo ni Contreras nga mapamatud-an nga may error sa ruling nga amo kuntani ang basehan sa re-examination sang arguments.
Militar, gin-remind sa pagsunod sa chain of command sa tunga sang pag-init sang mga isyu-pulitika
sa mga katapo sang militar nga sundon ang chain command kag magpabilin nga propesyunal sa tunga sang nagasaka pa nga tensyon sa pulitika sa Pilipinas subong.
Ginapatuhuyan ni Brawner ang naga-init pa nga away sa tunga sang anay magka-tandem nga sanday President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Isa sa pinakadaku nga statement nga nahambal ni Sara amo nga subject siya sang assassination plot, kag may ginmanduan siya nga pananglitan mapatay siya, patyon man si Marcos, ang first lady, kag ang house speaker.
Kaangot diri, nagpahayag si Brawner nga dapat nga dumdumon sang tropa ang ila sinumpaan nga depensahan ang Philippine Constitution.
Hindi po tayo loyal sa tao kundi sa posisyon,” pahayag sini.
Sa separado nga pahayag, ginplastar ni AFP spokesperson Colonel Francel Margareth Padilla nga, “Nananatili po kaming tapat sa aming mandato bilang taga-pagtanggol ng Constitution.
Nagsisilbi rin po kami sa bayan sa ilalim ng Pangulo natin bilang Commander-in-Chief.”
Sang naglupok ang balita sang weekend, una naman nga nagpanawagan ang AFP sa publiko nga magkalma.
Sa bahin sang PNP, una naman nga ginsiling ni PNP chief General Rommel Marbil nga ginmanduan na sini ang Criminal Investigation and Detection Group nga imbestigaran ang nangin statement sang vice president.#
Subong nga Lunes, Nobyembre 25, nagpaguwa na sang iya sabat si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Sang weekend, pila ka beses nga nagpamuyayaw ang tuman ka akig nga bise-presidente.
Lakip si Marcos sa iya gintawag nga “put*ng-ina” kag ginlaragway man nga “incompetent” kag “liar.”
Sa masobra tres minutos nga video message sang presidente nga gin-post man sa iya social media page, wala sini ginhinambit ang pangalan ni Sara (nga ka-tandem man sini anay sa 2022 elections), apang maathag nga para diri ang iya statement.
“Nakakabahala ang mga pahayag na narinig natin nitong mga nakaraang araw.
Nandiyan ang walang pakundangang pagmumura at ang pagbabanta ng planong ipapatay ang ilan sa atin.
Kung ganun na lang kadali ang pagplano sa pagpatay ng isang Presidente, papaano pa kaya ang mga pangkaraniwan na mamamayan?
Yang ganyang kriminal na pagtatangka ay hindi dapat pinapalampas.
Ako, bilang pinuno ng executive department, at lahat ng mga nanunungkulan sa pamahalaan, ay may sinumpaang tungkulin na tutupdin at pangangalagaan ang Konstitusyon at ang ating mga batas.
Kaya hindi tama ang pagpigil sa mga halal ng bayan sa paghahanap ng katotohanan.
Hindi na sana hahantong sa ganitong drama kung sasagutin lamang ang mga lehitimong katanungan sa Senado at sa House of Representatives.
Ang katotohanan ay hindi dapat i-tokhang.
Tapos na sana ang usapang ito kung tutuparin lamang ang sinumpaang panata na bilang lingkod bayan ay magsabi ng totoo, at hindi hahadlangan.
Imbes na derechahang sagot, nililihis pa sa kwentong chicheria.
Hangad ko na matuldukan na itong mga pangyayaring ito sa paraang matiwasay at magdadala sa atin sa katotohanan.
Labindalawang taon din ako nanungkulan sa magkaparehong kamara ng Kongreso.
Batid ko ang kapangyarihan iginawad sa kanila ng taumbayan at ng ating Konstitusyon.
Dahil dito, iginagalang ko ang kanilang gawain bilang isang independenteng sangay ng ating republika
Kahit ang buong executive branch, lahat ng mga ahensya, ay hindi nakakaligtas at parating sumasailalim sa kanilang masusing pagsusuri.
Bilang isang bansa, marami tayong mga paghamon na dapat harapin at mga suliraning dapat bigyan ng lunas.
Sa kabila ng mga pambabatikos, nakatuon ang aking pansin sa pamamahala.
Ngunit hindi natin iko-kompromiso ang Rule of Law.
Kailangan manaig ang batas sa anumang sitwasyon, sinuman ang tamaan.
Kaya hindi ko hahayaan magtagumpay ang hangarin ng iba na hatakin ang buong bansa sa burak ng pulitika.
Alalahanin natin ang mandato na pinagkatiwala sa atin ng milyong-milyon na Pilipino.
Magtrabaho po tayo sa ikauunlad ng Republika ng Pilipinas at para matamo ang Bagong Pilipinas.”###
Rowena Guanzon, ginbaton ang desisyon sang Supreme Court en banc nga pagbasura sa iya pag-substitute bilang P3PWD nominee
Wala na sang plano pa si Komunidad ng Pamilya, Pasyente at Persons with Disabilities (P3PWD) party-list Rep.
Rowena Guazon nga mag-apela sa desisyon sang Supreme Court en banc nga kakason ini bilang isa sa mga nominees sang partido.
Ang 131 ka pahina nga desisyon ang nabaton sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) sang Myerkules, Nobyembre 20.
Matandaan nga sang Hunyo 2022, nag-isyu ang Supreme Court sang Temporary Restraining Order (TRO) sa pagpatuman sang COMELEC resolution nga nagapasugot kay Guanzon nga mag-substitute bilang number one nominee sang P3PWD party-list.
Romualdez, ginhangkat si Sara Duterte nga magtambong sa hearing sa Kamara
Ginhangkat ni House Speaker Martin Romualdez si Vice President Sara Duterte nga personal nga magtambong sa hearings sang committee nga naga-imbestigar sa ginaalegar nga mga iregularidad sa paggamit sang budget sa Office of the Vice President (OVP) kag Department of Education (DepEd).
Miyerkules sang nag-resume ang inquiry sang House Committee on Good Government and Public Accountability nga nagabusisi sa ginaalegar nga fund misuse sa mga opisina sa idalom ni Duterte.
Nagtambong ang pila ka staff ni Sara lakip na ang chief of staff nag si Atty.
Zuleika Lopez nga na-cite in contempt pa kag na-detain subong sa detention facility sang Kamara.
Tubtub subong, nagapakatig-a si Sara nga magtambong apang nagpahayag nga naluoy na gid siya sa iya mga staff nga ginagisa sang panel.
Pahayag naman ni Romualdez, dapat nga indi na pag-ipasa ni Sara sa iya staff ang responsibilidad sa pagpaathag sa mga ginapamangkot nga pondo.
“Eh ‘di dapat lang siyang sumipot at mag-oath at mag-salita at mag-eksplika dahil lahat ng mga opisyales niya… siya lang yata may alam kung anong nangyari diyan sa mga pondo eh kaya dapat siya ang mag-eksplika,” suno kay Romualdez sa ambush interview sa Albay.
“Wag na niyang ibigay sa mga officials niya sa OVP at sa DepEd.
Sana lang magsalita,” dugang sang mamalidha.
Sa Lunes, Nobyembre 25, ang masunod nga hearing sang committee sa pagpanguna ni Manila Rep.
Lakip sa initial findings sang panel amo ang makaduluda nga identities nga nasulat sa acknowledgement receipts nga ginpasa sang OVP agud nga ma-justify ang ila confidential expenses sa Commission on Audit.
Lakip diri ang bantog na subong nga si “Mary Grace Piattos” nga wala sang may nakakilala kun sin-o.#
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Nagakadapat nga ipadalom sa maid-id nga pag-usisa ang penmanship sang mga tinawo ni Vice President Sara Duterte sa Office of the Vice President (OVP) agud mahibaluan kun isa sa ila ang ginapangita nga “Mary Grace Piattos”.
Noel Palomado, former legal officer sang Commission on Audit (COA), iya ginpahayag nga ang katuyuan sini nga matumod kun bala matuod nga tawo si “Mary Grace Piattos” nga nagpirma sa acknowledgment receipts sa mga ginpagwa nga confidential funds sang OVP ilabi na sang tuig 2022.
Mangin ang iban nga mga pangalan sa acknowledgement receipts ang ginadudahan man sang House quad committee bangud ang pirma sang mga ini ang wala sang kinalain sa pirma ni “Mary Grace Piattos” nga ginpasa sa Commission on Audit (COA).
Suno kay Palomado, may posibilidad nga gin-imbento lang ang pangalan nga “Mary Grace Piattos” gani importante nga mausisa ang penmanship sang pila ka mga tinawo sang OVP nga may papel sa paggasto sa confidential funds sang bise presidente.
Sa tion nga mapamatud-an nga ginhimo-himo lang ang pangalan nga “Mary Grace Piattos”, mahimo nga pasakaan sang kaso ang mga yara sa likod sini.
Nahibaluan nga nag-amot amot ang mga kongresista para sa P1 million nga padya sa makahatag sang impormasyon kag makatudlo kay “Mary Grace Piattos”.
Ion Perez, indi na magdayon sa pagpadalagan sa 2025 elections
Ginpahibalo sang TV host kag partner ni Vice Ganda nga si Ion Perez nga indi na ini magdayon sa pagpadalagan sa 2025 elections.
Ginpaagi sini ang announcement sa social media platforms kagab-i, Nobyembre 4.
Pahayag sini, indi na lang anay siya magpapili bilang konsehal bangud gusto sini nga mas ihanda ang iya kaugalingon para indi ini mahuy-an akg agud nga makaserbisyo man ini sang maayo.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa tanan nga nagsuporta sa iya ilabi na ang mga taga-Tarlac.
“Sa mga kalugar ko diyan sa Concepcion, una po maraming salamat sa tiwala at suporta niyo na ibinigay sa akin.
Pinapaalam ko lang po na hindi na po ako tatakbo o tutuloy bilang konsehal ng Concepcion,” pahayag sini.
“Gusto ko po munang ihanda ang sarili ko para hindi mapahiya sa inyo at mapaglingkuran kayo ng tama… Muli po, maraming maraming salamat sa inyong tiwala.
Oktubre 1 sang nag-file si Ion sang certificate of candidacy sa pagka-konsehal sa Concepcion, Tarlac kaupod ang Team “Luv Ko ‘To” slate nga ginapangunahan ni Mayor Noel Villanueva.#
VP Sara Duterte, nakahanda nga magpaidalom sa psych test kasunod sang pagtawag sang iya mga kritiko nga ‘mentally unstable’ ini
Ini ang sa tunga sang mga nabaton sini nga pagpakamalaot kag nagatawag sa iya nga “mentally unstable” ukon wala sa iya insakto nga paminsaron.
Apang suno kay Duterte, himuon lang niya ini kun ang tanan nga mga kongresista sa nga magapadalagan sa 2025 midterm elections ang magapaidalom man sa drug tests.
Nagpanawagan man si Duterte sa Philippine Medical Association nga mag-set sang guidelines para sa tests, apang nagakadapat nga patigayunon ini sang isa ka independent third party pinaagi sa hair follicle testing.
Ang kritisismo nga nabaton ni Duterte ang kasunod man sang ginpatigayon sini nga press conference sang Oktubre 18 sa diin lunsay pagpakamalaot ang iya ginhimo batok kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Indi mahimo maggamit sang mga kandidato sa 2025 elections ang short-form video platform nga TikTok para sa ila pagpangampanya.
Suno kay Tiktok Philippines public policy manager Peachy Paderna, indi nila pag-ipaguwa ini nga political advertisements bangud ang ila mayor nga tuyo indi amo nga tungaon ang mga tawo kundi i-promote ang environment nga naga-isa ang mga tawo paagi sa positibo nga mga dayalogo.
Nagtambong kahapon, Oktubre 21, ang mga tiglawas sang amo nga social media platform sa ceremonial signing sang pledge of support sang technology companies sa Commission on Elections (Comelec).
Gin-abi-abi naman sang poll body ini nga tikang bangud nabuhinan ang ila iga-monitor nga social media platform sa tion na sang campaign period.
Sa bahin sang Google, ginsiling man sini nga dumilian man nila ang paid political advertisements sa ila platform.
Apang sa Meta nga amo ang parent company sang Facebook kag Instagram, ginsiling nga tugutan sini ang advertisements agud nga ma-promote ang transparency kag hatagan sang patas nga oportunidad ang tanan nga mga kandidato.
Dugang sang Meta, ginatapna man nila ang troll accounts sa ila platforms paagi sa pag-implementar sang mga tikang kag nagapartner man sa nagkalain-lain nga stakeholders.
Sa second quarter pa lamang sang 2024, may yara na sang at least 1.2-billion nga peke nga accounts sa bilog nga kalibutan nga nakarehistro sa Meta.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom sang pagsulundan sang Comelec, gina-require ang mga kandidato nga magparehistro sang ila social media accounts kag ginahingyo man nga mag-isyu sang disclosure sa tanan nga election and campaign paraphernalia nga nahimo paagi sa artificial intelligence.#
VP Sara, ginhingyo sadto kay PBBM nga mangin Defense Secretary kag magpauli sa Davao via air travel
Gin-ako ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga may duha ini ka bagay nga ginhingyo kay President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Suno kay Duterte, duha lang ka bagay ang iya ginpangayo kay Marcos sa tion nga magdaog na ini bilang Presidente.
Una amo nga makapungko ini bilang Defense Secretary kag ang ikaduha amo nga makapauli ini sa Davao City via air travel.
Apang sang nagdaog na si Marcos, ginhimo sini si Duterte bilang Secretary sang Education.
Samtang nabutang naman si Duterte sa kontrobersiya matapos ginapahayag nga gingamit sini ang presidential chopper agud magpauli sa Davao City.
VP Sara: “Si BBM… May listahan ako ng limang bagay na impeachable offense niya”
Suno kay Duterte, sang nagpungko ini bilang bise presidente, nahibaluan niya nga isa siya ka impeachable officer.
Apang gin-athag ni Duterte nga mangin si Marcos ang impeachable man.
Nagapati naman si Duterte nga indi man ini sa gihapon makalusot ang impeachment ni Marcos sa House of Representatives.
Ini bangud si House Speaker Ferdinand Martin Romualdez kag President Marcos ang magpakaisa kag magkaalyado.
Nagpangayo sang sorry si Vice President Sara Duterte sa mga myembro sang Kingdom of Jesus Christ bangud sa paghingyo nga suportahan sadto si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Nahibaluan nga ang lider sang grupo nga si self-proclaimed son of God nga si Pastor Apollo Quiboloy ang ginpadakop sa idalom sang Marcos administration bangud sa sampaw-sampaw nga mga kaso.
Mismo si Marcos ang nagmando nga dapat atubangon ni Quiboloy ang mga kaso sini nga child abuse, sexual abuse, kag qualified trafficking nga gin-file sa korte sa Davao City kag Pasig City.
Nalakip ini sa most wanted list sa Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) sang Estados Unidos para sa mga kaso may kaangtanan sa sex trafficking, fraud, kag cash smuggling.
VP Sara Duterte sa mga Marcos: “Of course, ginamit lang nila ako para manalo sila”
Ginbulgar ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga ang kampo sang mga Marcos ang nagpalapit sa iya agud magpadalagan ini bilang Vice President.
Suno kay Duterte, matapos ini nag-file sang iya certificate of candidacy (COC) bilang mayor sa Davao City sang Oktubre 2021, gilayon siya nga gintawgan ni Sen.
Ginpahayag ni Duterte nga ginhingyo siya sang presidential sister nga magpadalagan bilang vice president.
Sang gin-usisa naman ni Duterte ang senadora kun ngaa luyag sini nga magpadalagan bilang vice president, ginsabat ini nga mapyerde si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
sa presidential elections kun indi ini pagsuportahan sang mga Bisaya.
Maathag suno sa bise presidente nga gingamit lang siya sang mga Marcos agud magdaog sa eleksyon.
Matandaan nga una na nga ginbulgar ni Duterte nga indi siya mag-abyan sang presidente, bagay nga ginkasubo man ni Marcos Jr.,
COMELEC, ginakabig nga isolated case ang away nanday Mayor Ninfa Garin kag Vice Mayor Taba Getuya
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Ginakabig sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) nga isolated case lang ang natabo nga inaway sa tunga nanday San Joaquin, Iloilo Mayor Ninfa Garin kag Vice Mayor Marvigrace Lago-Getuya sa gwa mismo sang munisipyo sang San Joaquin, Iloilo.
Nahibaluan nga hinablos ni Garin si Getuya bangud pakaisa sang alkalde ang iloy sang bise alkalde.
Reinier Layson, Provincial Election Supervisor sang COMELEC-Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga gin-imbestigaran na sang iya election officer sa San Joaquin ang natabo.
Suno kay Layson, wala man sang may nagreklamo sa ila talatapan sa kampo sang mga Garin kag Getuya rason nga wala man sila sang dapat nga desisyunan.
Una naman nga nagdepensa ang kampo sang mga Garin nga away pamilya lang ang natabo.
Kun balikan, sa video nga ginpadala sa Bombo Radyo, makita nga ginsaruso ni Mayor Garin si Vice Mayor Getuya.
Diri kag ginsukmaan sang ni Mayor Garin si Vice Mayor Getuya kun sin-o ini kag ano lang ini sang una.
Natabo ang pag-inaway sang magtiya matapos nag-file sang iya certificate of candidacy (COC) si Mayoral Candidate former Sangguniang Bayan Member Atty.
Joe Abad Lazaro nga ginasuportahan ni Vice Mayor Getuya.
Samtang si Mayor Garin naman ang nagasuporta sa iya hinablos nga si 1st District Board Member Marcelo Valentine Serag nga mapadalagan bilang alkalde bunggo kay Lazaro.
Nahibaluan nga ang tatay ni Board Member Serag ang utod ni Mayor Garin.
Magluwas sa bise alkalde, nagbaisay man sanday Mayor Garin kag pakaisa sini nga iloy ni Vice Mayor Getuya.
Arraignment ni Mabilog sa Sandiganbayan, gin-postpone; kampo sang anay alkalde, nag-file sang motion to quash
Gin-postpone ang arraignment ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sa Sandiganbayan subong nga adlaw.
Ini matapos nag-file sang motion to quash ang kampo sang anay alkalde.
Ang motion to quash ang tawag sa pamaagi agud mabasura ang kaso kriminal.
Katuyuan sini nga ideklarar sang korte nga invalid ukon void ang subpoena, arrest warrant, ukon legal complaint.
Diri kag i-review sang korte ang mga argumento kag ebidensya nga ginpresentar sang kampo ni Mabilog.
Matapos sini, madesisyon ang korte kun bala granted ukon denied ang motion.
Nahibaluan nga kahapon nag-file sang motion to quash ang kampo ni Mabilog, apang subong lang nga adlaw nabaton sang prosecution ang kopya.
Ginhatagan naman si Prosecution Justice Amparo Cabotaje-Tang sang tubtob sa Oktubre 18, 2024 agud magpasa sang ila paathag.
Gintalana naman sa Nobyembre 22 ang arraignment ni Mabilog.
Ang kaso ang ginpasaka nanday former Iloilo City Councilor Plaridel Nava II kag anay Iloilo Provincial administrator Manuel Mejorada sang 2015.
Nahibaluan nga indi mahimo makapadalagan si Mabilog sa anuman nga local elective office bangud sa ginapagwa nga dismissal order halin sa Ombudsman sa diin ang accessory penalty amo ang perpetual disqualification to hold public office.
Gindepensa man ni Mabilog nga ginpagwa ang desisyon sang wala ini sa Pilipinas matapos nagpaidalom sa asylum bangud sa pamahog sa iya kabuhi sa tion sang Duterte administration.
Una diri, gintuyo kuntani ni Mabilog nga magpadalagan sa 2025 elections, apang sa ulihi, nagdesisyon ini nga indi na niya pagdayunon ang iya plano.
Mabilog, ginsabat ang issue kaangot sa pagpangayo sang executive amnesty kabaylo sa indi pagpadalagan sa mayoral race
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Direkta nga ginsabat ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog ang issue nga gintanyagan ini sang executive amnesty kabaylo sang indi sini pagpadalagan sa mayoral race sa 2025 elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga ginhimo sang iya legal team ang tanan agud mapadalagan ini kuntani liwat.
Sa pamangkot naman kung magapangayo ini sang executive clemency kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., ginpahayag sini nga ginpasigurado sang iya mga abogado nga masolbar ang issue ilabi na nga nahatagan ini sang political asylum.
Ini ang nag-ugat sa kaso nga ginpasaka ni former Iloilo City Councilor Plaridel Nava II kag anay Iloilo Provincial administrator Manuel Mejorada sang 2015 sa diin gin-akusaran nila si Mabilog sang grave misconduct, dishonesty, kag conduct prejudicial to the best interest of the service bangud sa paghatag sang lloilo City government sang kontrata sa 3L Towing Services nga wala nag-agi sa public bidding.
Team Sulong Gugma, ginbuyagyag nga si ex-mayor Mabilog ang nagdesisyon sa ila nangin ulihi nga line-up
Ginbuyagyag sang Team Sulong Gugma nga si former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog ang naghimo sang pinal nga desisyon sa ila line-up kag amo man ang indi pagdayon sa pag-file sang iya kandidatura sa pagka-alkalde para sa 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga Oktubre 7 sang gab-i, isa ka adlaw antes ang proclamation rally kag pag-file sang COC sang kampo sang Sulong Gugma nahuman ang desisyon nga mapa-reelect si incumbent Congresswoman Julienne “Jam-Jam” Baronda kag mapadalagan sa pagka- Vice Mayor si former City Councilor Lady Julie Grace “Love-Love” Baronda.
Suno kay Mabilog, ila gindesisyunan nga tapuson ni Rep.
Pahayag pa sang anay alkalde, ginsakripisyo na lang niya anay ang iya kaugalingon kag maghulat sang husto nga tion.
Gin-ako man niya nga kulang siya sa oras gani ginpakamaayo niya nga indi magpadalagan.
Baronda nga ang ila desisyon ang resulta man sang naistoryahan sang party alliances nga National Unity Party, Nacionalista Party, kag Lakas-CMD.
Suno kay Baronda, ginkonsiderar nila ang pagduso sang Bagong Pilipinas nga programa kag siya mismo ang handa man kuntani nga magpaiway apang si Mabilog ang naghimo sang desisyon.
Mga political clans sa Iloilo, nagapapili sa indi magnubo sa duha ka posisyon sa eleksyon sa 2025
ILOILO CITY- Nagapapili sa indi magnubo sa duha ka posisyon sa eleksyon sa 2025 ang mga political clans sa Iloilo.
Ang pinakamadamo amo ang pamilya Tupas nga may pito ka kandidato; nagapangaduha ang pamilya Garin nga may lima ka kandidato; nagapangatlo ang pamilya Biron nga may apat; pamilya Gorriceta nga may duha; kag pamilya Defensor nga may duha man.
Yari ang listahan sang nasambit nga mga political clans kag ang mga posisyon nga ila ginapadalaganan:
Causing Tupas –Member, House of Representatives – Nationalist People’s Coalition Nielito Causing Tupas – Member, Sangguniang Panlalawigan – Lakas Christian Muslim Democrats Niel III Causing Tupas – Member, Sangguniang Panlalawigan – Partido Federal ng Pilipinas
8 mayoral, 11 vice mayoral candidates sa Iloilo sa 2025 elections, wala sang kontra
Walo ka mga mayoral kag 11 ka vice mayoral candidates sa Iloilo Province ang nagapadalagan nga wala sang kasumpong sa 2025 elections.
Ini nga mga kandidato ang nagakinahanglan lang sang isa ka boto agud masiguro ang pagpungko a ila mga posisyon.
Michael Gorriceta, plano nga magsaka sa national position sa ahensya sang gobyerno
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Gorriceta, iya ginpahayag nga may mga nagtanyag sa iya nga mapadalagan bilang bise gobernador kag ginkonsidera man niya ini sadto.
Apang sang ulihi, napinsaran sini nga alang-alang pa siya sa nasambit nga position.
Suno kay Gorriceta, bangud ginkonsidera man niya ang vice gubernatorial seat, luyag niya nga may masaligan man nga tawo nga magabulos sa iya.
Ini man ang nagtulod sa iya agud padalaganon bulos sa iya ang iya tiayon nga si Dr.
Kathryn “Kathy” Joyce Gorriceta nga masami nga “behind the scenes” ukon naga-upod upod lang sa iya pagpatuman sang mga programa.
Gin-ako man sang kongresista nga nagpadulong sila sang iya asawa kay former Senate President Franklin Drilon nga maninoy sini agud magkonsulta sa patag sang pulitika.
Nangin positibo man suno sa natungdan ang reaksyon ni Drilon sa plano nila nga mag-asawa.
Suportado man nila suno sa natungdan si Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor, Jr.
kag running mate sini nga si Anilao, Iloilo Mayor Nathalie Ann Debuque.
Sa subong, ginalantaw ni Gorriceta ang national position sa ahensya sang gobyerno.
Ex-Iloilo City Mayor Mabilog, pasakaan sang kaso si Vice Mayor Ganzon
ILOILO CITY – Nagpaandam ang kontrobersyal nga si former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga pasakaan sang kaso si acting Iloilo City Mayor Jeffrey Ganzon.
Si Ganzon ang nagapungko nga alklade sang syudad bangud wala sa gihapon nakabalik si loilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga sa subong, nagaapaayo pa sa hospital sa Metro Manila matapos nagpaidlaom sa bile duct operation.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mabilog, iya ginkumpirma nga kaso nga libel ang iya ipasaka kay Ganzon.
Suno kay Mabilog, nahibaluan na ni Ganzon nga pasakaan siya ang kaso kag ginahulat na lang niya ini.
Wala naman ginpalayag sang anay alkalde ang rason sa pagpasaka sini sang kaso kay Ganzon.
Matandaan nga sa ginpatigayon nga proclamation rally sang Team Sulong Gugma kahapon, ginpahayag ni Mabilog nga personal niya nga gin-endorso si former City Councilor Lady Julie Grace “Love-Love” Baronda agud makasumpong ni Ganzon nga mapadalagan bilang Vice Mayor sa masunod nga eleksyon.
Nahibaluan nga sang 2017 sa tunga-tunga sang drug war sang Duterte administration, gintudlo ni former Iloilo City First Lady Maria Victoria Mabilog si Ganzon nga amo ang nagaguba sang pangalan sang iya bana kay former President Rodrigo Duterte.
ILOILO CITY – Ginpaanggid sang mayoral candidate nga si Roland Magahin sa kilala nga Hebrew scripture nga ‘David and the Goliath’ ang pagbunggu-anay nila ni Raisa Treñas-Chu bilang alkalde sa Iloilo City sa May 2025 elections.
Obrero, Lapuz, Iloilo City, ang independent candidate samtang si Treñas-Chu naman ang nagapadalagan sa idalom sang National Unity Party (NUP).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Magahin, iya ginpahayag nga nakahanda siya nga magbunggo kay Raisa apisar nga anak pa ini ni incumbent Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas.
Gintawag man sini si Treñas-Chu nga ‘proxy’ lang ukon temporary nga bulos sang iya amay.
Suno kay Magahin, bilang isa ka anay presidente sang Iloilo Terminal Market Vendors Associations (ITMVA), prayoridad sini nga mahatagan sang maayo nga serbisyo ang mga vendors.
Kun mapilian naman ini bilang bag-o nga alkalde, plano sini nga magpatukod sang bag-o nga Terminal Market nga wala nahamtang sa mata sang syudad agud magaserbe nga bagsakan sang mga negosyante sang ila mga produkto.
Nahibaluan nga si Magahin ang isa man ka negosyante kag nagaserbe nga kag foster father ni former World Boxing Foundation (WBF) welterweight king William Magahin.
Baronda, naghibi kadungan sang Sulong Gugma Iloilo Proclamation Rally
Julienne ‘Jam Jam’ Baronda kadungan sang Sulong Gugma Iloilo Proclamation Rally.
Suno kay Baronda, nagakasubo ini sa gindangatan sa subong sang filing sang Certificate of Candidacy (COC).
Ini bangud wala natuman ang handom sini nga maka-upod kuntani sa eleksyon si former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga ginakabig sini bilang suod nga abyan.
Gin-ako man sini nga masami ini nga ginadaog-daog kag ginapakalain.
Apang suno kay Baronda, gintudluan ini sang iya mga ginikanan nga mangin mapainubuson.
Padayon man ini nga magaserbisyo para sa mga pumuluyo sang syudad.
Sa pihak sini, nagpangabay man ang kongresista sang suporta para sa Team Gugma.
Nahibaluan nga ang utod ni Baronda nga si Lady Julie Grace ‘Love-Love’ Baronda ang magapadalagan naman bilang Vice Mayor.
Mabilog, pinal na ang desisyon nga indi mapadalagan bilang Mayor
ILOILO CITY – Pinal na ang desisyon ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga indi ini magpadalagan sa 2025 elections.
Ini ang ginkumpirma ni Mabilog kadungan sang Sulong Gugma Iloilo Proclamation Rally.
Suno kay Mabilog, nagakasubo man ini bangud indi siya makapadalagan.
Apang luyag sini nga mag-angkon sang kalinong sa syudad rason nga nagdesisyon ini nga indi magbalik sa politika.
Sa pihak sini, gin-endorso sa gihapon ni Mabilog ang Team Gugma sa pagpanguna ni Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Nahibaluan nga wala sang kandidato ang Team Gugma sa pagka-Mayor.
Samtang ang Team Uswag ni Raisa Treñas-Chu ang wala man sang kandidato sa pagka-kongresista.
Alice Guo, indi magpadalagan sa 2025 elections
Indi na magpadalagan si dismissed Bamban, Tarlac Mayor Alice Guo sa 2025 elections.
Ini ang ginkumpirma mismo ni Guo kadungan sang Senate hearing.
Suno kay Guo, luyag sini anay nga tutukan ang mga kaso nga iya ginapangatubang agud mangin patas para sa iya mga constituents.
“Your honor, haharapin ko po muna ‘yung mga accusations po sa akin, linisin ko po muna ‘yung sarili ko po.
And para maging fair din po para sa mga constituents ko po na minamahal ko po,” pahayag ni Guo.
Sa subong, preso si Guo sa Pasig City Jail, sa diin nagapangatubang ini sang mga kaso nga graft, qualified human trafficking, money laundering, kag tax evasion bangud sa kaangtanan sini nga illegal nga Philippines Offshore Gaming Operator (POGO).
Ginpahalin naman ini sa pwesto sang Agusto.
Ginkansela naman sang Department of Foreign Affairs ang Philippine passport ni Guo matapos natukiban nga ang iya biometrics ang nagasanto sa Chinese passport holder nga si Guo Hua Ping base sa files sang National Bureau of Investigation.
𝗣𝗔𝗩𝗜𝗔, 𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 – Liwat nga magapapili bilang alkalde sang Pavia, Iloilo si Mayor Laurence Anthony ‘Luigi’ Gorriceta.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Gorriceta, iya ginpahayag nga last term niya subong bilang alkalde.
Suno kay Luigi, madamo pa siya sang programa nga ipatuman kun liwat nga mapilian bilang alkalde.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa mga pumuluyo sang Pavia sa ginhatag nga suporta sa iya.
Magluwas diri, ginpasalamatan man sini ang Florete Group of Companies sa mga bulig indi lang sa iya kundi mangin sa Pavia.
Nagpasa sang iya resignation letter si Atty.
Karlo Nograles nga amo ang chairperson sang Civil Service Commission (CSC) sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.
Epektibo subong nga Oktubre 7 ang iya pagpanaog sa pwesto santo sa sulat nga ginpadala kay President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Ginkumpirma man sini nga magabalik siya sa Davao City agud gamiton suno sa iya ang mga leksyon nga iya natun-an bilang head sang commission kag amo man ang duha ka dekada sini nga serbisyo sa gobyerno.
Kumpyansa man ini sa hinimuan sang CSC sa idalom sang iya liderato.
Sa idalom ni Nograles, nakapatuman ang CSC sang direct public engagement programs kag gin-improve ang profile sang eligibility exams para mas makagalanyat sa mga Pilipino ang government service.
Mas ginsapubliko man ang pagkilala sa most outstanding civil servants sa idalom sang iya termino kag ginduso man ang modernisasyon kag ang digitalization sang ahensya.
Matandaan nga antes na-appoint sa CSC, nakaserbe si Nograles bilang Cabinet secretary sang Duterte administration sang 2018 tubtub sang 2022 kag nakaserbe man bilang acting Presidential spokesperson halin sang 2021 tubtub sang 2022.
Nangin representative man siya sang 1st District sang Davao City halin sang 2010 tubtub sang 2018.
May mga naga-guluwa nga impormasyon nga magapadalagan ini sa posisyon sa local elections sa syudad sang Davao.
Jovic Remulla, ginpili ni Marcos nga mangin bag-o nga DILG secretary
ang long-time governor sang Cavite nga si Juanito Victor “Jonvic” Remulla Jr.
9:00 buwas sa aga magasumpa si Remulla sa Malacañang agud pormal nga magpungko sa posisyon nga nangin bakante sang nagpadalagan sa pagkasenador si anay DILG Sec.
Si Remulla naman ang eligible pa kuntani sa isa pa ka termino sa pagka-gobernador apang subong nga Lunes, gin-withdraw na sini ang iya gin-file nga certificate of candidacy (COC) sa Commission on Elections (Comelec).
Ang iya utod nga si Justice Secretary Jesus Crispin “Boying” Remulla ang nagkumpirma man nga na-appoint ang iya manghod bilang DILG secretary.
Ang appointment kay Jonvic amo ang una nga tion sa recent history sang Malacañang nga may mag-utod nga dungan nga magapungko sa Gabinete.
Natabo man ini anay sa administrasyon ni anay Presidente Benigno Aquino III apang amay kag bata ang nagpungko nga Cabinet members nga amo sanday budget secretary Butch Abad kag Presidential Management Staff secretary Julia Abad.
Ang DILG appointment amo ang iya una nga national position.
Ini amo ang may supervision sa pila ka mga ahensya kag bureau kaangay sang Philippine National Police amo man sa mga local government units sa bug-os nga Pilipinas.
Pagbaisay ni San Joaquin Mayor Garin kag Vice Mayor Getuya, ginakabig sang COMELEC nga isolated case kag indi election related concern
Ginklaro sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) Iloilo Province nga indi makabig nga election related concern ang natabo nga pagbaisay nanday San Joaquin Mayor Ninfa Garin kag Vice Mayor Marvigrace “Taba” Getuya.
Renier Layson, Provincial Election Supervisor IV- COMELEC Province of Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga sa ila pagpatigayon sang imbestigasyon kaupod ang kapulisan, natumod nga away sa pamilya lamang ang natabo sa tunga sang Garin kag Getuya.
Suno kay Layson kag sa election officer nga nag-imbestigar sa insidente, isa ka isolated incident ang natabo nga indi makaapekto sa eleksyon sa amo nga banwa.
Nanindugan man ini nga ang insidente ang wala nakatuga sang pagpamahog sa seguridad sang pumuluyo kag sa eleksyon sa amo nga lugar.
Pananglitan naman nga may magreklamo sa nangin imbestigasyon sang COMELEC, bukas ang ila talatapan agud nga diskusyonan ang amo nga hitabo.
Gov Defensor,Mayor Debuque, nag-file na sang COC
Yari ang mga opisyal nga nag-file sang ila kandidatura sa ikapito nga adlaw sang filing sang certificate of candidacy subong nga Lunes diri sa Iloilo.
nga liwat nga magapapili sa pareho nga posisyon
2.Anilao Mayor Lee Ann Debuque nga magapadalagan sa pagka-vice governor kaupod si Governor Defensor sa idalom sang ruling party nga Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP)
3.Bingawan Mayor Mark Palabrica nga magapapili sa pagka- board member sang third district of Iloilo
4.Incumbent Board Member Jason Gonzales nga magapadalagan sa amo man gihapon nga posisyon sa third district
Ferjenel Biron nga magapapili gihapon bilang kongresista
Boboy Tupas, naka-file na sang COC para mangin vice-governor sang Iloilo
Nag-file na sang iya Certificate of Candidacy para sa pagka- bise gobernador sang Iloilo si 5th District Congressman Raul “Boboy” Tupas.
Kaupod niya nga nag-file si 5th District Board Member Binky Tupas nga magapapili bilang Representative sang 5th District sang Iloilo.
Boboy Tupas, iya ginpahayag nga resulta ini sang malawig nga pagpanumdom kag konsultasyon.
Suno sa iya, ang iya pagpadalagan ang nagapakita sang demokrasya agud may pilian ang mga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga mangin kasumpong sini si Anilao Mayor Lee Ann Debuque.
COMELEC, wala sang problema sa Iloilo magluwas lang sa away politika sang magtiya nga sanday San Joaquin Mayor Garin kag Vice Mayor Getuya
ILOILO CITY – Padayon pa ang ginahimo nga imbestigasyon sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) sa natabo nga inaway sa tunga nanday San Joaquin, Iloilo Mayor Ninfa Garin kag Vice Mayor Marvigrace Lago-Getuya sa gwa mismo sang munisipyo.
Reinier Layson, Provincial Election Supervisor sang COMELEC-Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga ginmanduan na sini ang election officer sa San Joaquin nga imbestigaran ang natabo.
Nagpangabay man si Layson sa mga politiko nga likawan ang pag-ilinaway kag indi magpadala sa emosyon.
“Wala kita sang problema sa probinsya, except sa San Joaquin although it happened outside sa office sang COMELEC.
We are closing monitoring sang sitwasyon didto kag ginapa-imbestigaran ko man sa akon election officer sa San Joaquin.”
Sa tion nga matapos na ang imbestigasyon, diri kag makadesisyon ang COMELEC kun ipaidalom bilang isa sa mga ‘areas of concern’ ang banwa sang San Joaquin.
Samtang si Mayor Garin naman ang nagasuporta sa iya hinablos nga si 1st District Board Member Valentine Serag nga mapadalagan bilang alkalde bunggo kay Lazaro.
Jed kag Marivic Mabilog, ginlaslasan ang Uswag Ilonggo Party-list
ILOILO CITY – Ginlaslasan sang mag-asawa nga former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog kag former First Lady Ma.
Victoria ‘Marivic’ Mabilog ang Uswag Ilonggo Party-list.
Una nga ginbulgar ni former Mayor Mabilog nga ang Uswag Ilonggo amo ang sa likod sang pagpahilabot sa Team Gugma ni Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Julienne ‘Jamjam’ Baronda kag Team Uswag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas.
Sa post ni Mabilog, iya gintumod ang Uswag Ilonggo nga amo ang nagalabugay sa politika sa syudad.
Apisar wala man ginpangalanan, isa man lang ang nagatiglawas sa Uswag Ilonggo kag indi amo si Rep.
Ini suno sa alkalde ang rason kun ngaa nagaresulta sa indi maayo ang relasyon sang mga politiko.
Ginsaway man ni Mabilog ang Uswag Ilonggo nga magpahimunong.
“Haiist, si Uswag Ilonggo bi ang ga labugay sang tanan, naga pa-it pa gid.
Nahibaluan nga si Mabilog ang ginabati-bati nga mapadalagan bilang Mayor kag ang iya abyan naman nga si Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Mabilog nga indi na pagbotohon pa sa masunod nga eleksyon ang Uswag Ilonggo Party-list.
Mabilog: “Haiist, si Uswag Ilonggo bi ang ga labugay sang tanan, naga pa-it pa gid.
ILOILO CITY – Ginbulgar ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog ang sa likod sang pagpahilabot sa Team Gugma ni Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Ini suno sa alkalde ang rason kun ngaa nagaresulta sa indi maayo ang relasyon sang mga politiko sa syudad.
Julienne ‘Jam Jam’ Baronda ang mapare-elect bilang kongresista.
Wala sang pagbag-o ang posisyon kag panindugan ni Cong.
ILOILO CITY – Wala sa gihapon sang pagbag-o sa desisyon sang Team Gugma ni Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Julienne ‘Jam Jam’ Baronda nga bungguon ang Team Uswag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas.
Ini ang kasunod man sang pagpagwa ni Treñas sang official statement nga maga-updanay liwat ang iya Team Uswag kag Team Gugma nga una naman nga ginbungkag sang alkalde.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Stanley Clyde Chavez Flores, spokesperson ni Baronda, nakahanda sila nga magbunggo sa kumpleto nga slate sang alkalde.
Suno kay Flores, padayon pa nga ginatun-an ni Baronda ang iya mangin desisyon kag nagapangusisa pa ini sa iban pa nga mga lideres.
Ginpahayag sang natungdan nga mismo ang kampo sang alkalde ang nagplastar sang ila proposal pinaagi sa unity talks nga indi na lang magbunggu-anay ang Team Gugma kag Team Uswag.
Nagpadala ang Team Gugma sang representative nga laywer kag namati sang proposal sang pihak nga kampo [Team Uswag].
Pero as of this time, ginatun-an ang bagay nga na presentar.
Namati kita pero it doesn’t mean nga amo na to.”
Matandaan nga ginpahayag sang alkalde nga bilang kabahin sang pag-isa kag kaayuhan sang syudad sang Iloilo, maga-updanay sa May 2025 midterm elections ang iya anak nga si Raisa Treñas-Chu kag si Baronda.
Si Baronda ang magapadayon sa iya termino bilang kongresista, samtang si Raisa naman ang mapadalagan bilang alkalde.
Apisar luyag pa sini kuntani nga tapuson ang iya isa pa ka termino, apang ginpakamaayo ni Treñas nga magpa-iway kag itugyan sa iya anak ang masunod nga eleksyon.
Alleged lover ni Alice Guo nga si Mayor Dong Calugay, magapa-reelect
Nag-file na sang certificate of candidacy (COC) para sa reelection sa 2025 midterm elections si Sual, Pangasinan Mayor Liseldo “Dong” Calugay nga amo ang ginatudlo nga lover ni dismissed Bamban, Tarlac Mayor Alice Guo.
“Para sa patuloy na #SerbisyongMayMalasakit at sama-samang pag-abante ng ating bayan ng Sual, naghain si incumbent Mayor Dong Calugay ng kandidatura para sa reelection kasama ang kaniyang mga kapartido,” kabahin sang post sa official Facebook page sang kontrobersyal nga alkalde.
Kun matandaan, ginpatambong si Calugay sa imbestigasyon sang Senado batok sa iligal nga Philippine Offshore Gaming Operators (POGO).
Didto kag gingisa ini sa iya nga personal kag business ties kay Guo ukon Guo Hua Ping apang wala ini nagaako nga magkarelasyon sila nga duha apisar madamo sila ang pictures nga magkaupod.
Una naman nga ginpanginwala ni Calugay nga may previous kag present business ventures siya kay Guo apisar nabuyagyag sa Senado ang lima ka farm business registrations nga ginapatihan ila nga duha.
Mangin si Guo ang nagpanginwala man nga may yara sila sang romantic relationship.
Una naman nga ginpahayag sang kampo ni Guo paagi sa iya legal counsel nga si Atty.
Stephen David nga magapadalagan man liwat ang dismissed mayor sa 2025 sa Bamban, Tarlac apisar nga nakahunong ini subong sa Pasig City Jail.#
Alice Guo, mapadalagan liwat sa pagka-alkalde sa Bamban, Tarlac
Magapadalagan liwat si dismissed Bamban, Tarlac Mayor Alice Guo sa pagka-alkalde sa Bamban, Tarlac.
Stephen David, nagaplano si Guo nga mag-file sang iya nga certificate of candidacy (COC) para sa 2025 elections kag ginapreparar na subong sang legal team ang iya nga mga dokumento.
Suno kay David, dapat nga pabay-an nga ang mga botante mismo sa Bamban ang magadesisyon kun gusto nila nga mag-pungko liwat si Guo.
Base sa pagsulundan sang Commission on Elections (Comelec), mahimo maka-file si Guo sang COC paagi sa representative bangud nakahunong ini subong sa presuhan sa Pasig City.
Matandaan nga ginsipa sang Ombudsman sa pwesto si Guo sang Agusto bangud sa ginaalegar nga grave abuse of discretion bangud sa operasyon sang Philippine offshore gaming operator ukon POGO hub sa ila banwa sa Tarlac.
Apisar nga ang amo nga order sa Ombudsman ang may penalidad nga perpetual disqualification from public office, mahimo pa ini maapelar, buot silingon, indi pa ini final and executory.
Kahapon, ang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) sa pagpanguna ni Director Jaime Santiago ang nag-file sa Department of Justice (DOJ) sang complaints batok kay Guo.
Ang mga gina-reklamo amo si Guo kag abogado nga si Elmer Galicia nga amo ang nag-notaryo sa iya counter affidavit apisar nga wala man ini sa Pilipinas sang Hulyo bangud nagpalagyo na ini sa luwas sang pungsod.
Ginkumpirma ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga maga-updanay liwat ang iya Team Uswag kag Team Gugma ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne ‘Jamjam’ Baronda.
Sa ginpagwa nga official statement sang alkalde, iya ginpahayag nga bilang kabahin sang pag-isa kag kaayuhan sang syudad sang Iloilo, maga-updanay sa May 2025 midterm elections ang iya anak nga si Raisa Treñas-Chu kag si Baronda.
Ginkumpirma man sang alkalde ang iya pagpaidalom sa bile duct operation sa diin nagpangabay ini sang pangamuyo sa publiko.
“Padayon ako nga nagapa-ayo gikan sa bile duct operation.
Ginpasalamatan man ni Treñas ang tanan nga nagsupporta sa iya sang nagbalik ini bilang alkalde sang 2019.
“Salamat gid sa inyo tanan, sa pagsalig kag pag-suporta halin sang nagbalik kita bilang alkalde sang 2019.
Matandaan nga mismo si Treñas ang una nga nagkumpirma sadto sa iya pagbulag kay Baronda kadungan sang pag-endorso kay Raisa sa pagpadalagan kuntani bilang kongresista.
Vilma kag anak nga si Luis, ma-tandem bilang governor kag vice governor sa Batangas
Mapadalagan sanday “Star for All Seasons” Vilma Santos Recto kag anak sini nga si Luis Manzano bilang governor kag vice governor sa Batangas.
Samtang ang anak pa gid ni Vilma nga si Ryan Christian Recto ang mapadalagan man bilang kongresista sa 6th District sang Batangas.
Subong nga adlaw, nag-file si Vilma kag mga anak sini sang ila Certificate of Candidacy (COC) sa Batangas Provincial Capitol.
Gin-updan si Vilma sang iya bana nga si Department of Finance (DOF) Secretary Ralph Recto samtang si Luis ang gin-updan man sang iya misis nga actress nga si Jessy Mendiola.
Baronda, nakasugod na sa pagproseso sang COC filing—COMELEC
Ginkumpirma sang Commission on Elections- Iloilo City nga nakasugod na sa pagproseso sa filing sang certificate of candidacy ang kampo ni Iloilo City Lone District Representative Julienne Baronda.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang opisina, iya ginpahayag nga sa iya pagpakig-angot kay Baronda, ginsiling sang kongresista nga posible sa Oktubre 7 ukon 8 ini maga-file sang certificate of candidacy.
Nagapanugyan naman si Sayno sa tanan nga mga partido nga magpaidalom gid sa pre-checking sa mga dokumento kag requirements sa pag-file.
Pahayag sang natungdan, ini agud malikawan ang mga errors kag mangin tayuyon ang proseso sang filing.
Senatorial aspirant: “Lahat ng mga taong involve na ako ay i-disqualify sa pagiging mahirap, ay isinusumpa ko”
Isumpa sang isa ka kandidato sa pagka-senador ang mga tawo nga sa likod sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) kun ideklara siya nga nuisance ukon nagapagamo lang sa piniliay.
Si Lopez ang gindeklara nga nuisance candidate sang nagligad nga eleksyon bangud sa kakulang sang iya pamatuod sa iya intensyon sa pagpadalagan.
Apang sa ikaduha nga adlaw sang filing sang certificate of candidacy (COC) para sa May 2025 elections, liwat ini nga nagpakita.
“Kapag hindi ako pinatakbong senador ng COMELEC, lahat ng mga taong involve na ako ay i-disqualify sa pagiging mahirap, ay isinusumpa ko ang mga taong yun at idedeklara ko na pinakawala kayong kwentang ahensya ng gobyerno.”
ILOILO CITY – Neither confirm nor deny ang kampo ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas sa impormasyon nga gin-admit ini sa isa ka ospital sa Metro Manila.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga, spokesperson ni Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang pagpadulong sang alkalde sa Metro Manila ang kabahin sang iya general check-up.
Suno kay Fantilaga, samtang nagahulat sa resulta sang iya laboratory tests, ginaprepahan man sang alkalde ang pag-file sang Team Uswag sang Certificate of Candidacy (COC) nga natalana sa masunod nga semana.
Gintugyan naman sang alkalde kay Vice Jeffrey Ganzon ang pagdumala sa Iloilo City bilang acting Mayor.
Nahibaluan nga maga-file sang COC ang Team Uswag sa Oktubre 8.
Baronda, wala pa sang pinal nga petsa sa pag-file sang COC
ILOILO CITY – Wala pa sang pinal nga petsa kun san-o ma-file sang Certificate of Candidacy (COC) ang Team Gugma ni Iloilo City Lone District Julienne ‘Jamjam’ Baronda.
Jonathan Sayno, Election Assistant II sang Iloilo City Commission on Elections (COMELEC), iya ginpahayag nga sila mismo ang maistorya sa kampo ni Baronda agud mahitso ang security plan.
Itugyan naman sini sa Team Gugma ang pag-anunsyo sa publiko sang ila plano sa pag-file sang COC.
Suno kay Sayno ang kumpirmado pa lang nga ma-file sang ila COC sa Oktubre 8 sang hapon amo ang Team Uswag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas.
Managtag sang libre nga pares, unlimited rice kag soft drinks sa Kamara si Deo Balbuena ukon mas kilala nga Diwata kun magdaog ini sa 2025 midterm elections.
Si Diwata ang 4th nominee sang Vendors Party-list.
Kilala ini bangud sa pagpanag-iya sang Diwata Pares Overload.
Luyag isulong sang grupo ang kinamatarong sang mga manugbaligya sa pungsod.
Self-confessed drug lord Rolan “Kerwin” Espinosa, mapadalagan bilang mayor sang Albuera, Leyte
Gin-updan si Espinosa sang iya mga kaangay nga kandidato sa idalom sang Bando Espinosa-Pundok Kausaban (BE-PK) party.
Matandaan nga si Espinosa ang nangin kontrobersyal matapos gin-angot ni former president Rodrigo Duterte sa illegal drug trade sa Eastern Visayas, sa diin nag-testify man ini sa Senate hearing sa narcotics operations sa pungsod.
Sang Hunyo, ginbasura sang Leyte Regional Trial Court (RTC) ang kaso batok kay Espinosa bangud sa kakulang sa ebidensya.
Gintumod man si Espinosa sadto bilang top drug personality sa Eastern Visayas.
Gin-angot man ini sadto sa paghatag sang drug money kay former Senator Leila de Lima pinaagi sa iya anay aide nga si Ronnie Dayan.
Apang sang 2022, ginbawi ni Espinosa ang iya mga akusasyon batok kay de Lima sa diin ginrason sini nga ginpwersa siya kag ginpahog agud itudlo si de Lima.
Na-clear naman si de Lima sa tanan sini nga kaso nga ginpato-pato sang Duterte administration.
Mel Carreon, mapadalagan bilang kongresista sa 2025 elections
ILOILO CITY – Mapadalagan na naman si Mel Carreon sa May 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Carreon, iya ginpahayag nga nagahandom ini nga magdaog bilang Representative sa Lone District of Iloilo City.
Suno kay Carreon, 11 ka beses na ini nga nalutos sa eleksyon, apang wala ini sa gihapon nagakadulaan sang paglaom.
Ini naman ang ikaduha ka beses nga magpadalagan ini bilang kongresista sa syudad.
“Wala ko gani nahadlok magpadalagan bilang President kag Senator.”
Ginpahayag sini nga wala ini nahadlok nga magpadalagan sa anuman nga posisyon sa gobyerno sa diin mangin sa pagka-presidente kag senador, nagpasa man ini sadto sang iya certificate of candidacy (COC) apang wala ini napasugtan sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC).
Nahibaluan nga apisar wala nagakaagi daog sa eleksyon, wala man ini nakaagi nga nakakuha sang ‘zero’ nga boto.
Imee Marcos, nagpaathag angot sa iya pag-atras sa senatorial slate nga gin-endorso sang presidente
Nagpaathag si Senadora Imee Marcos kun ngaa nag-atras ini sa alyansa nga gin-endorso sang iya nga utod nga si Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr sa pagka-senador para sa 2025 elections.
Matandaan nga ginpakilala sang Presidente sa Alyansa Para Sa Bagong Pilipinas convention ang senatorial slate sang administrasyon kun sa diin nalakip si Senadora Imee apang wala ini sa event.
Suno kay Imee, indi niya luyag nga mabutang sa tunga-tunga sang duha ka kampo.
Apisar nag-withdraw si Marcos sa Senatorial slate sang administrasyon, gin-athga niya nga bukas siya sa tion nga imbitaron siya sang presidente nga magsaka sa entablado sang Alyansa Para Sa Bagong Pilipinas.
Nagpasalamat man siya sa iya nga utod bangud nahangpan sang presidente ang iya nga sitwasyon.
Ginsiling pa ni Marcos, nakaistorya na niya ang iya iloy tuhoy sa iya nga pag-withdraw sa alyansa.
Suno sa iya, ginkasubo ni anay First Lady Imelda Marcos ang iya nga nangin desisyon.
Sa subong, ginakumpleto pa niya ang iya nga mga dokumento para sa pag-file niya sang iya nga kandidatura sa pagkasenador sa 2025 elections.
Ginahulat na ang niya ang desisyon sang Nacionalista party sa pag-file sang COC bangud wala man siya nag-resign sa partido.
Ginklaro ni former Senator Panfilo “Ping” Lacson nga magapadalagan siya bilang independent candidate sa eleksyon sa masunod nga tuig apisar nalakip man siya sa senatorial slate nga gin-anunsyo ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Pahayag sini, isa siya ka guest candidate sang Nationalist People’s Coalition (NPC) nga kabahin sang alyansa sang lima ka major political parties sa idalom ni Marcos.
Matandaan nga ang gintingob sang administrasyon nga partido sa idalom sang Alyansa Para Sa Bagong Pilipinas senatorial slate amo ang Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP), National Unity Party, Lakas-CMD, Nacionalista Party, kag Nationalist People’s Coalition.
Paathag sini, bugal niya nga mangin kabahin sang grand alliance, kag wala sang duda sa iya pinsar nga pananglitan magdaog siya sa masunod nga tuig, sigurado siya nga may salig sa iya si Marcos.
Matandaan nga nagpadalagan si Lacson bilang independent presidential candidate sang 2022 kaupod si former Senate President Tito Sotto nga subong nagapadalagan man sa pagka-senador kag gina-endorso man ni Marcos.#
Imee Marcos, nangindi nga mag-upod sa 2025 senatorial slate ni BBM
Nagpamalibad si Senator Imee Marcos nga mag-upod sa senatorial slate nga gin-endorso sang iya utod nga si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Base sa video message ni Imee, magapa-reelect ini bilang isa ka independent candidate.
Sa statement sang senadora, ginpahayag sini nga mabudlay mag-isahanon sa pulitika kag sa kampanya, apang amo ini suno sa iya ang legasiya nga ginbilin sang iya amay nga si anay Presidente Ferdinand Marcos, Sr.
Pahayag pa ni Imee nga subong affiliated sa Nacionalista Party, ginpili niya nga mangin independent na lamang para indi na mabudlayan ang iya “ading” (Bongbong Marcos), kag amo man ang iya mga abyan.
Nahibaluan nga ang kaupod sini sa Nacionalista nga si House Deputy Speaker Camille Villar ang kabahin man sang senatorial ticket sang electoral alliance sang administrasyon nga amo ang Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas.
Nagpasalamat man si Imee sa Nacionalista kag sa iya utod nga si Bongbong nga gin-upod siya sa ginpakilala nga senatorial slate.
Matandaan nga sang ginpakilala ni Marcos ang 12 nga yara sa ila line-up sang nagligad nga semana, si Imee lamang ang absent apang ginrason nga masako na ini sa pagpangampanya.#
BM Carol-V Espinosa-Diaz, mapadalagan bilang Mayor sa Ajuy
Carol-V Espinosa-Diaz nga mapadalagan ini bilang Mayor sa Ajuy, Iloilo sa May 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Diaz, iya ginpahayag nga sa banwa sang Ajuy ini nagdako kag tion na agud magbalik ini sa nasambit nga banwa agud magserbe sa mga pumuluyo.
Suno kay Espinosa, nahisto na nila ang ila partido sa diin ang mga kandidato sa ila partido ang naghalin sa nagkalain-lain nga sector.
Nahibaluan nga antes nangin Board Member, nagserbe man si Espinosa bilang Councilor sang Ajuy.
Marcoleta, ginkakas na bilang miyembro sang 5 gamhanan nga komitiba sa Kamara
Ginkakas na bilang myembro sang lima ka mga gamhanan nga komitiba sa Kamara si SAGIP Partylist Representative Rodante Marcoleta.
Ginpahayag ini sang Kamara de Representantes antes mag-break ang sesyon humalin kahapon.
Julienne ‘JamJam’ Baronda ang pagkakas kay Marcoleta sa Commission on Appointments (CA) kag sa mga komite sang energy, justice, public accounts, kag constitutional amendments.
Gin-elect naman sang Kamara si Manila Teachers Party list Rep.
Nag-usisa naman si House Deputy Speaker kag Cebu 5th District Representative Duke Frasco nga amo ang nagapamuno sa session kun may mamalabag sa ginduso ni Baronda.
Matandaan nga isa si Marcoleta sa mga nagdepensa kay Vice President Sara Duterte kaangot sa kuwestiyunable nga paggasto sang pondo sini sa Department of Education (DepEd) sang 2022 kag sa Office of the Vice President (OVP).
Sheen Mabilog, posible nga buslan ni Atty.
ILOILO CITY- Natalana nga i-anunsyo ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas ang kompleto nga slate para sa Team Uswag sa pinakamadali nga panahon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Miss Joy Facinal Fantilaga, spokesperson sang alkalde, iya ginpahayag nga sa subong, sa Manila pa si Treñas may kaangtanan sa preparasyon sini para sa nagahilapit nga filing sang certificate of candidacy sa una nga semana sang Oktubre.
May kaangtanan naman kay Executive Assistant Sheen Marie Mabilog nga una na nalakip sa line-up sang mga councilor sa grupo ni Treñas apang nagsipak ini, ginpahayag ni Fantilaga nga wala pa sang direkta nga sabat ang alkalde tuhoy sa status ni Mabilog.
Naggwa man ang impormasyon nga pagabuslan ni Atty.
Sheila Olid si Mabilog sa mabakante sini nga slot.
Kadungan sang isyu sang pagsipak ni Mabilog, ginpahayag naman sang alkalde paagi kay Fantilaga nga ginhatagan kag ginbuligan nila si Sheen Mabilog sang ti-on nga nagkinahanglan ini sang bulig kag ubra kag gin-upod pa sa line up sa Team Uswag.
Marcos, ginpangunahan ang ‘Alyansa’ sang lima ka mga leading political parties sa Pilipinas
ang ‘Alyansa Para sa Bagong Pilipinas’ Convention 2024 sa Philippine International Convention Center (PICC) sa Pasay City subong nga adlaw.
Ang ‘Alyansa’, ang ginalakipan sang lima ka mga leading political parties sa Pilipinas nga ginalakipan sang, Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP), Lakas-Christian Muslim Democrats (CMD), Nationalist People’s Coalition (NPC), Nacionalista Party (NP) kag National Unity Party (NUP).
Sa nasambit nga kahiwatan, ginsaksihan ni Marcos ang pagpirma sang manifesto sang mga party leaders sang alliance nga sanday South Cotabato Governor Reynaldo Tamayo Jr.
Suno kay House Speaker Romualdez, ang nasambit nga Alyansa’ ang ginpapag-on para sa kaayuhan sang mga Pilipino.
Ginpahayag naman ni Marcos nga ang Alyansa’ sang mga Partido sa pungsod ang nagapakita lang sang maayo nga relasyon sang mga lideres.
“Hindi pangkaraniwan ang pagtitipon ngayon dahil ito ay pagkakataon para ipakita natin ang kahalagahan ng pagsasama-sama at ng pagkakaisa.
Kadungan sang kahiwatan, ginpakilala man sini ang 12 ka mga senatorial candidates nga iya i-endorso para sa 2025 midterm elections.
Ang sabi nila, ang halalan daw ay panahon ng:
Subalit kabaligtaran po ang inilulunsad ng ating Alyansa.
Ang listahan sang 12 ka mga senatorial candidates ang ginalakipan sang reelectionists, Cabinet members, kag former senators, sa diin naghalin ang mga ini sa nagkalain-lain nga political parties, kaangay sang Partido Federal ng Filipinas, Nationalist People’s Coalition, Lakas-CMD, kag Nacionalista Party.
12 ka mga senatorial bets sang administrasyon sa 2025 elections, ginpangalanan na ni Marcos
MANILA, Philippines — Gin-anunsyo na ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
ang 12 ka mga senatorial candidates nga iya i-endorso para sa 2025 midterm elections.
Ginhimo ini ni Marcos kadungan sang political event sa Philippine International Convention Center (PICC) sa Pasay City.
Ang nasambit nga mga senatorial slate ang gin-tag bilang “Alyansa para sa Bagong Pilipinas.”
Ang listahan sang 12 ka mga senatorial candidates ang ginalakipan sang reelectionists, Cabinet members, kag former senators, sa diin naghalin ang mga inin sa nagkalain-lain nga political parties, kaangay sang Partido Federal ng Filipinas, Nationalist People’s Coalition, Lakas-CMD, kag Nacionalista Party.
Lakip sa mga senatorial bets ni Marcos amo sanday:
Councilor Baronda, mapahuway sa pulitika;anak nga si Love, magapadalagan sa pagka-konsehal
Ginkumpirma ni Iloilo City Councilor Urminico Baronda nga magabalik sa pulitika agud magpadalagan sa pagka-konsehal ang iya anak nga si Love Baronda sa palaabuton nga 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga siya ang mapaiway para sa iya anak.
Suno sa iya, indi manami nga madamo sang Baronda sa pulitika sa syudad.
Matandaan nga ulihi nga nangin kabahin sang city government si Love Baronda sang nangin executive assistant ini ni Treñas apang ginkakas ini sang nabungkag ang alyansa sang iya magulang nga si Rep.
Antes nangin executive assistant, nangalagad naman sadto si Love Baronda bilang konsehal.
109 sa 310 nga mga mamalidha sa kamara, mga myembro na sang Lakas-CMD
Masobra na sa one third sang 310 ka members sang House of Representatives ang kabahin na subong sang ruling party nga Lakas-CMD.
Ini ang ginpahayag sang opisina ni Speaker Martin Romualdez.
Santo sa statement, may yara na sang 109 Lakas-CMD members sa kamara matapos nag-upod sang damlag lang sa partido sanday Zamboanga del Sur Rep.
Victoria Yu nga sadto anay member sang PDP-Laban; ex-Nacionalista Party member Raul Tupas sang Iloilo; kag Bukidnon Rep.
Jose Manuel Alba, nga halin sa Bukidnon Paglaum Party.
Suno sa opisina ni Romualdez, ang dugang nga affiliation nagapasangkad sang suporta sa Congress kag ang grassroots para kay President Ferdinand ‘Bongbong’ R.
kag sa iya Agenda for Prosperity kag Bagong Pilipinas programs.
Sang nagligad nga Biyernes sang nagpatigayon ang Lakas-CMD sang national convention kun sa diin ginsiling sang Speaker nga ang partido ang mangin kabahin sang masaligan kag reform-oriented nga administration coalition para sa May 2025 polls.
Raul Tupas, 90% na nga desidido nga magpapili sa pagka-vice governor
Raul Boboy Tupas ang iya interes nga magpadalagan sa posisyon nga vice governor sa 2025 midterm elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Tupas, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga desisyon ang resulta sang pagpakighinun-anon sa mga pumuluyo kag mga lideres sa probinsya ilabi na sa pagtulod man sang iya pamilya.
Suno kay Tupas, sa subong, 90% na nga bug-os ang iya desisyon kag ang nabilin ang ginatugyan na lang niya sa Diyos.
Pahayag niya, sa subong, ginahulat niya si Governor Arthur Defensor Jr.
sa posible pagsugilanon nila ilabi na nga nagahilapit na ang filing sang certificate of candidacy.
Matandaan nga nakapungko na sadto si Tupas bilang vice-governor sang 2013 tubtob 2016.
Si Tupas ang myembro sang Nacionalista Party.
Abalos, Bong Revilla, nagbisita man sa balay ni ex-VP Leni sa Naga City
Pareho kay Sara, sanday Abalos kag Revilla ang nagkadto man para sa selebrasyon sang Feast of Our Lady of Peñafrancia.
Si Revilla ang kumpirmado na nga magapadalagan liwat bilang senador sa 2025 midterm elections, samtang matunog man nga ginabati-bati nga magasulod naman sa pulitika si Abalos.
Pahayag sang interior secretary, nagkadto siya sa Naga City para sa festival bangud deboto ang iya pamilya sang Our Lady of Peñafrancia, kag sang amo nga tion, napinsaran sini nga mayo man nga mag-courtesy call siya kay Robredo.
Nag-post naman sang pictures si Revilla kag nagsiling nga suod gid nga abyan sang ila pamilya si anay Sec.
Jesse Robredo nga amo ang nagtaliwan nga bana ni Leni.
Sunod man nga gin-athag sang former vice president nga sa kada Peñafrancia, welcome gid ang tanan sa ila balay sa Naga City halin sang una bisan ano pa man ang duag sa politika.
Sang Byernes, matandaan nga sa isa ka makakilibot nga development, si Sara mismo ang una nga nagkadto sa balay ni Robredo kag nagtinir sang isa ka oras.
Nagdepensa ang Office of the Vice President nga indi desperada si Sara, samtang ginklaro naman ni Leni nga personal kag indi political ang iya gin-istoryahan.
Bong Go, Bato, Philip Salvador, lakip sa 2025 senatorial lineup sang PDP
Gin-nominate sang Partido Demokratiko Pilipino (PDP) sanday Senador Christopher “Bong” Go kag Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa kag ang aktor nga si Philip Salvador agud mangin kabahin sang ila senatorial lineup para sa 2025 midterm elections.
Kadungan ini sang national assembly sang amo nga partido kagab-i, Septyembre 20, sa Davao City kun sa diin yara man ang chairman nga si anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Gintumod man sang partido si Senator Robin Padilla bilang national campaign manager.
Nahibaluan nga madugay na nga kaalyado ni Duterte sanday Go kag Bato samtang abyan nila kag masami naga-upod sa mga event sang pulitiko si Salvador.
Sa amo man nga assembly, gin-anunsyo ang bag-o nga mga opisyal sang PDP nga amo ang masunod:
Ginpirmahan man ang memorandum of agreement (MOA) kaupod ang Partido Reporma, Hugpong ng Pagbabago, Pederalismo ng Dugong Dakilang Samahan(PDDS), kag Mayor Rodrigo Roa Duterte National Executive Coordinating Committee (MRRD NECC).
Ini nga kasugtanan amo ang magahatag sang kinamatarong sa PDP nga batunon ang nominasyon sang iban pa nga posible nga kandidato halin sa iban nga partido tubtub sa October 8 nga amo ang pagsugod sang pag-file sang certificate of candidacy sa Commission on Elections (Comelec).
Baronda, nagapasalamat bangud matinluan na ni Mabilog ang iya pangalan
ILOILO CITY – Nagapasalamat si Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Julienne ‘Jam Jam’ Baronda nga nakapauli na sa syudad si former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Nahibaluan nga si Baronda ang nangin lyabe agud makabalik si Mabilog sa Pilipinas matapos ginhingyo sini sa quad committee sa Kamara nga mangin resource person ang anay alkalde sa hearing sa drug war sa idalom sang administrasyon ni former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga nagapasalamat ini nga nahatagan sang kahigayunan si Mabilog nga mangin resource person agud madepensahan sini ang iya kaugalingon batok sa akusasyon ni Duterte nga isa ini ka narco-politician.
Sa subong suno kay Baronda, ang importante amo nga matinluan ni Mabilog ang iya pangalan.
Kun sa politika naman, gin-athag sang mamalidha nga wala pa sila sang pinal nga plano sang anay alkalde kun maga-updanay ang mga ini sa 2025 midterm elections.
Ex-Mayor Mabilog, nagtambong sa hearing sang quad committee sa Kamara subong nga adlaw
ILOILO CITY – Nagtambong si former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sa hearing sang quad committee sa Kamara subong nga adlaw.
Ini nga mega-panel nga ginatawag man nga “quadcom” ang ginabug-usan sang House Committee on Dangerous Drugs, Committee on Public Accounts, Committee on Public Order and Safety, kag Committee on Human Rights.
Antes nagtakop ang ikalima nga joint hearing sang nagligad nga semana, nag-manifest si Committee on Public Order and Safety Chairperson kag Santa Rosa Lone District Rep.
Danilo “Dan” Fernandez nga pakadtuon si Mabilog sa masunod nga schedule sang ila hearing.
Magluwas kay Fernandez, lakip man sa mga mamalidha nga nagduso agud mag-testify si Mabilog sa hearing amo sanday Abang Lingkod Party-list Rep.
Nahibaluan nga nakabaton ang anay alkalde sang verbal nga imbitasyon nga magtambong sa hearing.
Apang indi pa makahambal ang alkalde sa hearing.
Matandaan nga nag-abot si Mabilog sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport sang Martes, Setyembre 10, matapos ang pito ka tuig nga pagpuyo sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Agusto 2017 sang nagbiya si Mabilog sa Pilipinas matapos nga gin-tag ini ni Duterte bilang narco-politician” kag ginasapubliko pa sang former president ang pamahog nga patyon ini bangud ginatum-ok sini si Mabilog nga protector sang illegal drug syndicates sa Western Visayas.
Imee Marcos ang iya madugay na nga abyan kag indi ang presidente.
Ginpahayag ni Duterte nga nagkilalahay lang kag nag-istorya sila ni Marcos sang nangin running mates ang mga ini sang tinalikdan nga eleksyon sang 2022 sa diin nag-upod sila sa “UniTeam.”
“Hindi kami magkaibigan, unang-una, nagkakilala lang kami dahil naging mag-running mate kami… Nagkausap lang kami during campaign at dahil sa trabaho noon, but ngayon hindi na kami nagkakausap.”
Ang ulihi nga pag-istorya ni Duterte kay Marcos ang natabo pa sang nag-resign ini bilang Secretary sang Department of Education sang Hunyo.
Mabilog, may “surrender feeler” na antes pa man nagbalik sa Pilipinas
ILOILO CITY – Ginkumpirma sang kampo ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Mabilog nga nakig-angot na ini sa National Bureau of Investigation agud magsungka sa kaso niya nga graft antes paman ini nagbalik sa Pilipinas.
Jeric Jucaban, legal counsel ni Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga naghatag na sang “surrender feeler” ang anay alkalde nga boluntaryo ini nga magsungka sa mga otoridad kag atubangon ang kaso kriminal nga ginpasaka sa iya.
Gin-ako man ni abogado ni Mabilog nga sang yara ini sa luwas sang pungsod, naghingyo nini sang ‘Political Asylum’ sa gobyerno sang United States of America kag gin-grant man.
Nag-file ang Office of the Ombudsman sang graft charges batok kay Mabilog kag kay former Iloilo City Councilor Plaridel Nava II sang 2023 bangud sa ginapahayag kahilabtanan sa paghatag sang kontrata sa isa ka towing services firm sa diin may yara ang mga ini sang kaangtanan.
Base sa criminal information nga gin-file sang government prosecutors, nagsulod sanday Mabilog kag Nava sa memorandum of agreement kaupod ang 3L Towing Services agud magpatigayon sang clamping kag towing sa mga salakayan nga iligal nga naga-park sa syudad.
Mabilog, ginpa-activate na ang iya voter registration
Jeric Jucaban, legal counsel ni Mabilog, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga tikang ang kasunod man sang pagbalik sini sa Pilipinas kahapon.
Suno kay Jucaban, may patigayunon pa nga hearing antes ma-grant ang request sang anay alkalde agud liwat ini nga kilalahon bilang botante.
Ang nasambit nga tikang ang kasunod an sang ginabati-bati sa liwat nga pagbalik ni Mabilog sa politika sa Iloilo City.
Nagpagwa sang official statement si former Iloilo City First Lady Maria Victoria ‘Marivic’ Mabilog kasunod sang pagpauli na sa Pilipinas sang iya bana nga si ex-Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog.
Sa iya official statement nga ginpadala sa Bombo Radyo Iloilo, ginpahayag sang anay First Lady nga ginakabig niya nga daw kaangay sang rollercoaster ang ila naagyan.
Ginbalikan man sini ang natabo sang 2017 sa diin nagbiya sila sa Pilipinas matapos nakabaton sang pamahog sa kabuhi ang anay alkalde halin kay former President Rodrigo Duterte sa diin ginbansagan pa ini nga protector sang iligal nga droga.
Ginpaathag man sini nga emosyonal ang iya mga anak nga sanday Nathan kag Patricia matapos nakita sang mga ini ang ila amay nga naghibi samtang ginapatpat ang naagyan nga kasakit ilabi na sang napatay ang iloy sang anay alkalde nga si Melchorita, sa diin wala sila nakapauli tubtob nga nalubong na lang ini.
Ginpasalamatan man ni Marivic ang tanan nga nagbulig agud safe nga makagwa ang mga ini sa Pilipinas sang amo nga tion.
Mangin ang mga Sisters of Dominican Order suno sa natungdan ang nagbulig man sa pagpangamuyo para sa ila tubtob nangin safe ang ila flight pagwa sa Pilipinas.
Matandaan nga kahapon sang nag-abot sa Pilipinas ang anay alkalde matapos ang halos pito ka tuig nga pagtinir sa luwas sang pungsod.
Sa iya pag-abot sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) Terminal 3, ginabanta 11:00 AM, sakay sang Cathay Pacific flight halin sa New York, United States, ginsugata ang anay alkalde sang mga operatiba sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI).
Ginkumpirma ni NBI Director Jaime Santiago nga boluntaryo nga nagsungka ang anay alkalde sa mga tinawo sang NBI-NCR.
Yara ang anay alkalde sa kustodiya sang NBI kag gindala sa Sandiganbayan kag nagpiyansa sa balor nga P90,000 para sa iya nga temporary nga kahilwayan.
Ang anay alkalde ang ginapahayag nga nalakip sa mga gin-imbitar nga Resource Persons nga magatambong sa pagpadayon sang Quad Committee House Probe sa bwas.
“Ka Eric”: Quiboloy madamo sang abyan sa militar rason nga indi ini sa PNP nagsungka
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jeffrey “Ka Eric” Celiz, iya ginpahayag nga wala sang salig si Quiboloy sa Philippine National Police (PNP).
Suno kay Celiz, kilala si Quiboloy nga malapit sa Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) rason nga sa militar ini nagsungka kag indi sa mga pulis.
Ginpahayag sini nga sa isa ka lugar sa Mindanao lang nagapanago si Quiboloy kag indi sa underground bunker sang Kingdom of Jesus Christ (KOJC) religious compound sa Davao City.
Nanindugan man si Celiz nga nagsungka si Quiboloy kag wala gin-aresto.
Ini suno sa natungdan ang baliskad sa pahayag ni Department of Interior and Local Government.
nga gin-aresto sang mga otoridad si Quiboloy kag wala nagsungka.
Ginpili naman ni Quiboloy suno kay Celiz nga magsungka bangud indi na sini maagwantahan ang ginahimo nga pagpabudlay sa iya mga myembro sa kamot sang mga kapulisan.
Vice President Sara Duterte, gintudlo sanday Speaker Martin Romualdez kag Appropriations Chair Zaldy Co nga nagapahilabot sa budget sang DepEd
Ginbulgar ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga duha ka tawo lang ang nagamando agud kag mahimo masunod para sa budget sang Pilipinas.
Suno kay Duterte, ginpataasan ang budget sang Department of Education sa P15 billion halin sa aprubado nga P5 billion sang 2023 para sa classroom construction.
Ang gindugang nga P10 billion ang ginapahayag kontrolado nanday Rep.
“Hindi ko na kailangan ng corroborative witness dito dahil makikita ninyo ‘yun sa papel.
Ini suno sa bise president ang rason sa iya pag-resign bilang Secretary sang DepEd.
Mabilog, nagpabutyag nga mapauli na sa Iloilo City
Nagpabutyag si former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog nga luyag sini nga magpauli sa Iloilo City.
“Simple lang po ang gusto ko… gusto ko lang pong umuwi, gusto ko lang ng peace.”
Ini ang kasunod man sang pagpadulong sini sa Canada matapos nakabaton sang pamahog gikan kay former President Rodrigo Duterte nga patyon niya ang anay alkalde.
Suno kay Mabilog, ang iya desisyon nga magbalik sa Iloilo City ang kasunod man sang panawagan sang quad committee sa Kamara nga hatagan ini sang kahigayunan nga makapaathag sa mga akusasyon batok sa iya.
Gin-ako man sini nga nahadlok siya sang una sa iya seguridad, apang sa subong, nabatyagan sini nga safe na nga magpauli sa Pilipinas.
Matandaan nga gin-akusaran ni Duterte si Mabilog nga protector sang iligal nga droga.
Ginbansagan man sang anay presidente ang Iloilo City nga most shabulized city.
VP Sara sa OVP budget deliberations: “Magsasayang lang tayo ng oras dito”
Ini apisar nakalinya na ang 17 ka mga mamalidha agud mag-uisa sa budget sang opisina ni Duterte.
Nahibaluan nga ang proposed budget sang OVP para sa 2025 ang nagadangat sa P2.037-billion nga mas mataas sang 8% sa budget subong nga 2024.
Mayor Treñas, indi threatened kun magbalik si former Mayor Mabilog sa syudad
ILOILO CITY- Nagapati si Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga dapat magbalik na sa Pilipinas si Former Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog kung nagapati ini nga tion na para tinluan ang pangalan sini.
Madumduman nga isa sa mga gin-tag nga narcopolitician sang anay administrasyon Duterte ang anay alkalde sang siyudad.
Suno kay Mayor Treñas, ginaabi-abi niya ang anay alkalde kun pili-on gid man sini nga magpauli.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, indi man siya threatened kun magpauli gid man si Mabilog.
Baronda, luyag nga magpauli si former Mayor Mabilog agud madepensahan ang akusasyon sa iya ni Duterte sa iligal nga droga
ILOILO CITY – Nagpabutyag sang sentimento si Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Julienne ‘Jamjam’ Baronda kaangot sa pagbansag sa syudad bilang ‘most shabulized city’.
Ang nasambit nga bansag ang ginpahayag sadto ni anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte sa tunga-tunga sang iya war on drugs.
Isa naman si former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sa mga gintumod ni Duterte nga protector sadto sang iligal nga droga, apang wala man sang mabakod nga ebidensya.
Sa ginpatigayon nga hearing sang Quad Committee sang Kamara, ginpahayag ni Baronda nga isa si Mabilog sa mga wala mahatagan sang hustisya sa tion sang Duterte administration.
Suno kay Baronda, bilang tiglawas sang Iloilo City, luyag sini nga makakas na ang bansag sa syudad bilang ‘most shabulized city’.
Luyag man sini nga magpauli na si Mabilog sa Pilipinas agud madepensahan sini ang iya pangalan batok sa mga akusasyon ni Duterte.
Councilor Johnny Young: “Nalipay man ta nga ang aton anay Mayor Jed Mabilog, nagapakita kun sin-o ang iya suportahan nga konsehal sa 2025”
ILOILO CITY – Ginkalipay ni Iloilo City Councilor Johnny Young ang pagpakita sa iya sang suporta ni former Iloilo City Mayor Jed Patrick Mabilog sa 2025 elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Young, iya ginpahayag nga madugay na sila nga mag-abyan ni Mabilog.
Nahibaluan suno kay Young nga magka-upod sila ni Mabilog nga nagpadalagan sang 2010 elections.
Gin-ako man sini nga masami man sila nga nagabayluhanay sang mensahe ni Mabilog, apang gin-athag sini nga wala sila naka-istorya natuhoy sa politika.
Kun may yara man sang post ang anay alkalde suno sa konsehal, maathag nga nagapakita lang ini sang suporta sa ila kag indi na dapat paghatagan pa sang anuman nga kahulugan.
Gin-athag man sang konsehal nga sa subong ang iya loyalty ang yara kay Mayor Jerry Treñas.
‘Magsama-sama na kayo lahat’: Duterte, wala sang plano nga makig-alyansa sa PFP ni Marcos
Wala sang gana si anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte nga i-upod ang iya partido nga Partido Demokratiko Pilipino (PDP) sa partido ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Suno kay Duterte, bisan mag-updanay pa ang tanan nga partido, indi na kinahanglan nga magpakig-alyansa siya kag mas malipayon siya kun isahanon na lamang.
Kaya nga sabi ko sa inyo, mas maligaya ako ‘pag mag-isa na lang ako.
Nandoon na kayo lahat,” suno sa former president.
“Kung matalo man [ang PDP], I will sink on my own.
Ako na ang lulubog mag-isa,” dugang sini.
Matandaan nga sang Huwebes, pormal na nga nakig-alyansa ang political base sang Villar Family nga Nacionalista Party sa partido ni President Marcos.
Nagpanguna si Marcos sa ceremonial signing sang alliance agreement sa tunga sang duha ka nasambit nga mga partido sa Taguig.
Magluwas sa Nacionalista Party, nagpirma man anay ang Partido Federal sang alliance agreements kaupod sa Lakas-CMD, Nationalist People’s Coalition, kag National Unity Party.
Nanindugan si anay Commission on Elections (COMELEC) chairman Andres “Andy” Bautista nga wala siya nagbaton sang anuman nga suhol halin sa Smartmatic ukon anuman nga entity.
Ini ang ginpahayag ni Bautista matapos ginkasuhan sang United States federal grand jury sa Florida bangud sa ginapahayag pagkuha sang suhol sa isa ka kumpaniya nga naghatag sang voting machine para sa 2016 elections sa pungsod.
Suno sa United States Justice Department, ang 60 anyos nga si Bautista ang nagapangatubang sang isa ka count sang pagpakighimbon sa pagpatigayon sang money laundering kag tatlo ka counts sang international laundering of monetary instruments.
Ginakasuhan man ang tatlo ka executives sang voting machine company para sa ila nangin papel sa ginapahayag pagpangsuhol kag money laundering scheme agud makakuha sang negosyo nga may kaangtanan sa 2016 Philippine elections.
Wala gintumod sang United States Justice Department ang kumpaniya, apang isa sa tatlo nga ginkasuhan amo ang executive nga si Roger Alejandro Pinate Martinez, 49, isa ka Venezuelan citizen kag Florida resident nga co-founder sang Smartmatic.
Nasaad sa akusasyon nga sa tunga-tunga sang 2015 kag 2018, sanday Pinate, Jorge Miguel Vasquez, 62, kag iban pa ang naghatag sang indi magnubo sa $1 million ukon P58 million nga suhol kay Bautista.
Sanday Pinate kag Vasquez ang ginapasakaan sang tag-isa ka count sang conspiracy to commit money laundering kag tatlo ka counts sang monetary instruments nga paglapas sa Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Sa tion nga mapamatud-an nga nakasala, ginpahayag sang Justice Department nga sanday Pinate kag Vasquez ang dagdagan sang maximum penalty nga lima ka tuig nga pagkapreso bangud sa paglapas sa Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
Samtang, ang Office of International Affairs sang Justice Department kag ang Philippine Department of Justice kag Office of the Ombudsman ang naghatag man sang dako nga bulig sa kaso.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga tuig, ang Smartmatic ang gindumilian sang Philippine Commission on Elections sa bidding sang election contracts apang ginbawai sang Supreme Court sang Abril.
Si Bautista nga nagpamuno sa election commission humalin sang 2015 tubtob 2017, ang naghatag sa Smartmatic sang $199 million P11.4 billion nga kontrata agud maghatag sang 94,000 ka voting machine para sa 2016 presidential election sa diin nagdaog sa piniliay si anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Nacionalista Party, nagpirma na sang 2025 alliance kaupod sa Partido Federal ni Marcos
Pormal na nga nakig-alyansa ang political base sang Villar Family nga Nacionalista Party sa partido ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga amo ang Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP).
Nagpanguna si Marcos sa ceremonial signing sang alliance agreement sa tunga sang duha ka nasambit nga mga partido sa Taguig subong nga adlaw, Agusto 8.
Sa iya speech, ginpahayag sang presidente nga kabahin pa ini sang unity kag preparasyon man para sa palaabuton nga midterm elections.
Ginbalikan man sini ang tion nga myembro siya sang Nacionalista kun sa diin iya gin-ako nga indi siya mangin presidente kun wala ang bulig sang amo nga partido.
Bangud sini, nagpanawagan man ini sa mga myembro sang duha ka partido nga suportahan ang mga kandidato sa upcoming elections nga handa nga ipaiway ang partisan kag personal nga indi paghangpanay sa pulitika.
“Ang pinaka mahalaga ay magkasundo tayo kung ano man ang pinakamaganda para matulungan natin ang ating mga kababayan.”
Nahibaluan nga madalom ang relasyon ni Marcos sa Nacionalista Party kag mga Villar nga isa sa pinakamanggaranon nga pamilya sa pungsod.
Sang 2010, nagdalagan si Marcos sa pagka-senador sa idalom sang Nacionalista Party kun sa diin si Manny Villar ang standard bearer.
Sang 2016, nagpa-eleher liwat si Marcos bilang independent matapos nga wala siya gin-endorso sang Nacionalista kag ang duha pa ka party members nga sanday anay senador Alan Peter Cayetano kag Antonio Trillanes IV nga pareho nagpadalagan sa pagka-bise presidente.
Naghalin si Marcos sa Nacionalista Party kag nagsaylo sa banner sang Partido Federal sa 2022 elections apang sang ulihi ginsuportahan siya sang mga Villar.
Naestablisar ang Nacionalista Party sang 1907 kag amo ang oldest party sa Pilipinas kag puluy-an sang pila ka Philippine presidents lakip si Ferdinand E.
Robin Padilla, nagsumpa na bilang bag-o nga party president sang PDP
Gin-anunsyo sang Partido Demokratiko Pilipino (PDP) nga si Senator Robinhood Padilla na ang bag-o sini nga party president 10 ka bulan antes ang May 2025 midterm elections.
Sa statement sang partido, ginpahayag sini ang kumpyansa sa liderato ni Padilla nga mapadayon ang pag-consolidate sang party membership kag magpreparar para sa palaabuton nga eleksyon.
Nagapati man ang partido nga yara sila sa maayo nga kamot sa idalom sang pagpamuno sang senador kag magapabilin nga isa ka daku nga pwersa para sa pagbag-o kag pag-uswag sang nasyon.
Antes nanumpa si Padilla bulos kay Pampanga 2nd District Rep.
Jose Alvarez nga nag-resign sa pwesto, gin-uyatan sini ang posisyon nga executive vice president kag acting president.
Nahibaluan nga 20 ka bulan man nga nagpamununo sa grupo si Alvarez.
Sang nagligad lamang nga Abril, matandaan nga nagtipon ang mga lider sang partido lakip na si former president kag chairman sini nga si Rodrigo Duterte kun sa diin nadesisyunan nga kakason na ang Laban sa PDP Laban.
Una naman nga ginpahayag sang partido nga magahimo ini sang senatorial lineup para sa 2025 polls kun sa diin ma-representar gid ang tanan nga rehiyon sa Pilipinas.
Lakip sa sini nga senatorial slate amo sanday incumbent Senators Bong Go, Ronald dela Rosa, Francis Tolentino kag ang actor nga si Philip Salvador.
Boboy Tupas, mapadalagan bilang vice governor
Raul ‘Boboy’ Tupas nga nagaplano ini nga magpadalagan bilang Vice Governor sa May 12, 2025 local elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Tupas, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga kumpirmasyon ang iya sabat sa madamo nga mga pamangkot kun bala magapadalagan ini bilang Mayor sa Sara, Iloilo.
Suno kay Tupas, apisar yara ang iya opisina sa banwa sang Sara, apang wala ini nakaparehisto sa nasambit nga banwa.
Sa subong suno kay Tupas, naka-konsulta na ini sa mga nagkalain-lain nga lider sa iya plano sa masunod nga piniliay.
Nahibaluan nga tubtob subong, wala paman nakadeklarar si Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., sang iya mangin running mate.
Sara Duterte, nagkadto sa haya sang vice governor sang Bohol kadungan sang SONA ni Marcos
Mas ginpili ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga magkadto sa haya sang bise gobernador sang Bohol sa baylo nga magtambong sa ikatatlo nga State of the Nation Address (SONA) ni President Ferdinand ‘Bongbong’ Marcos, Jr., Hulyo 22.
Ang nagtaliwan nga si Bohol Vice Governor Dionisio Victor Balite amo ang nagapungko kuntani nga acting governor sang probinsya.
Sa statement sang bise-presidente, ginsiling man sini nga nahatagan siya sang oportunidad nga makapalab-ot sang simpatiya sa pamilya, lokal nga panguluhan sang probinsya, kag tanan nga taga-Bohol nga nasubuan gid sa pagtaliwan sang ila mataas nga opisyal.
“Nabigyan rin ako ng pagkakataong makamusta at makausap ang ilang mga opisyales ng probinsya, munisipalidad, at barangay.
Maraming salamat sa inyong mainit na pagtanggap at suporta.
Ang pagbisita natin ay pagpapakita ng pakikiisa sa ating mga kababayang Bol-anons upang bigyan sila ng pag-asa sa paggunita nila ng kanilang Bohol Day ngayong araw,” kabahin sang Facebook post ni Duterte.
Ang pagbisita sang vice president ang kadungan man sa Bohol Day ukon ang charter day sang amo nga probinsya.
Antes sini, nauna na nga ginkumpirma ni Sara nga magluwas nga indi siya magkadto sa Batasang Pambansa sa Quezon City para sa SONA bangud gina-appoint niya ang iya kaugalingon bilang ‘designated survivor’, indi man siya mag-monitor sa speech sang presidente bisan sa TV ukon sa gadgets.
Matandaan nga sanday Marcos kag Duterte ang nag-updanay sa UniTeam tandem sang 2022 elections nga amo man ang nagkuha sang suporta sang pinakadalagku nga political parties kag clans sa pungsod.
Sang Hunyo 19, nagpasa si Sara sang iya resignation sa Gabinete ni Marcos kag nangin epektibo sang Hulyo 19 ang iya pagpanaog sa pwesto bilang tiglikom sang Department of Education.
Defensor, wala pa sa gihapon sang may napilian nga running mate
ILOILO – Wala pa subong sang pinal nga pangalan nga posible maka-tandem ni Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., sa May 12, 2025 elections.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo 2nd District Rep.
Michael Gorriceta, iya ginpahayag nga posible nga patapuson anay ang State of the Nation Address (SONA) ni President Ferdinand R.
antes istoryahan sang mga local nga kandidato kun sin-o gid ang mangin bise gobernador ni Defensor sa masunod nga piniliay.
Nahibaluan nga si Gorriceta ang isa sa mga nagagwa nga pangalan nga ginapilian nga magpadalagan bilang bise gobernador.
Suno kay Gorriceta, dako man ang posibilidad nga wala sang ideklarar si Defensor nga running mate.
Samtang sa pagka-gobernador naman, ginpahayag sang kongresista nga posible nga wala sang may mabunggo kay Defensor sa iya ulihi nga termino.
Ini bangud mabudlay na kag kulang na ang tyempo sang isa ka politiko nga mag-establish sang iya pangalan agud magbunggo kay Defensor.
Nahibaluan nga si Defensor amo subong ang nagapungko bilang regional chairman sang Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP) nga amo man ang partido sang presidente.
Panay-Guimaras-Negros Island Bridge, isa sa mga ginalauman ni Rep.
ILOILO – Ginplastar sang Ilonggo nga mamalidha ang iya mga ginalauman nga ipatpat ni President Ferdinand R.
sa iya ikatatlo nga State of the Nation Address (SONA).
Michael Gorriceta, iya ginpahayag nga lakip sa mga ginalauman sini nga iplastar sang presidente sa iya SONA amo ang ikaayong lawas, edukasyon, inflation, turismo, infrastructure, enerhiya kag teknolohiya.
Suno kay Gorriceta, bilang isa ka Ilonggo nga mamalidha, nagalaom ini nga matutukan man sang presidente ang mga kinahanglanon sang Iloilo kaangay sang kakulang sang kuryente kag ang ginalauman nga maumpisahan na ang Panay-Guimaras-Negros Island Bridge.
Ang SONA ang patigayunon sa Lunes, Hulyo 24, las 4:00 sa hapon matapos ang pagbukas sang Second Regular Session sang 19th Congress sa diin maga-convene ang Senado kag House of Representatives.
Ini ang patigayunon sa Plenary Hall sang Batasang Pambansa sa Quezon City.
Luis Manzano, magasulod naman bala sa pulitika?
Nagsabat na ang host-actor nga si Luis Manzano kasunod sang wala-tuo nga mga pamangkot kun nagapabatyag na bala ini sa Batangas kag kun may plano man nga magsulod sa pulitika.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, spotted si Luis kaupod ang iya stepfather nga si Finance Secretary Ralph Recto nga nagtambong sa isa ka political event sa San Juan, Batangas.
May pictures pa kun sa diin kaupod sang duha si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Bangud nagahilapit na lang ang filing sang certificates of candidacy, may mga espekulasyon nga magapadalagan man si Luis kaangay sa iya iloy — ang Star for All Seasons nga si Vilma Santos nga nagpungko anay bilang alkalde, kongresista, kag gobernadora sa Batangas.
Nangin lahog naman ang sabat ni Luis sa mga naga-tag sa iya: “Kung sakali po na ako ay tatakbo, umaambon pa lang, may ayuda na agad.
Sang ulihi, gin-klaro sini nga nagtal-os lamang siya sa iya iloy para sa amo nga event sang Hulyo 12: “Nag-represent kay Momski lang muna.”
Dugang sini, wala pa naistoryahan sa ila pamilya ang pulitika, bangud subong suno sa iya, masako pa siya sa bag-o nga TV show nga Rainbow Rumble.
Matandaan nga sa contract signing sini sa Kapamilya network sang nagligad lamang nga Hulyo 2, nagsabat ang TV host nga indi sini pagsiraduhan ang posibilidad sa pagsabak man sa pulitika ukon serbisyo-publiko sa masunod nga mga tinuig.
Liwat nga napaslawan sa paghimo sang impresyon sa iya nga team ang Los Angeles Lakers rookie nga si Bronny James matapos nga nahulog sa match 0-3 ang ila team sa NBA Summer League play.
Si Bronny nga anak ni NBA all-time leading scorer LeBron James ang nagbutang sang pinakagamay nga mga tira sa tanan nga mga starter sang Lakers batok sa Miami Heat kag natapos nga may tatlo lang ka puntos sa 1-for-3 nga shooting halin sa field.
Ang iya bug-os nga stat line ang yara lamang sa tatlo ka puntos, lima ka rebounds, tatlo ka assists, duha ka steals, kag tatlo ka blocks nga nagtapos sa 80-76 nga kapierdihan sa Miami.
Ginpangunahan naman ang Lakers sang kaupod nga rookie nga si Dalton Knecht – nga nagtira sang 7-of-18 gikan sa field kag 2-for-8 halin sa 3-point range.
Gintapos niya ang hampang nga may 20 puntos kag siyam ka rebounds.
Samtang, ang Heat ginpangunahan sang isa ka pares sang 21-puntos nga mga pasundayag halin kay Keshad Johnson kag Aldones Williams.
Gintapos naman ni Johnson ang hampang nga may 21 puntos, walo ka rebound, tatlo ka assist, tatlo ka steal, kag tatlo ka blocks.
Si Williams naman ang nakatapos nga may 21 puntos, siyam ka rebounds, tatlo ka assists, isa ka steal, kag duha ka blocks.
Sa subong, wala pa naka-impress si Bronny sa Summer League play – nga nakahampang lang sang duha sa tatlo ka mga hampang pagkatapos nga wala maintra sa ikaduha nga hampang bangud sa pagbanog sang iya nga tuhod.
Nahibaluan nga ang iya una nga hampang, ang isa ka kapierdihan sa Sacramento Kings, natapos sa pag-iskor ni Bronny sang apat ka puntos, duha ka rebound, duha ka assist, kag isa ka steal sa sulod sang 21 minutos.
PBBM: First Lady Liza, tiya nanday Bimby kag Josh
Ini ang nangin pahayag ni Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sang gin-usisa kaangot sa indi pag-intindihanay sang pamilya Marcos kag Aquino.
Kahapon, Hulyo 9, ginpakigbahin ni First Lady Atty.
Louise “Liza” Araneta-Marcos ang mga pictures kaupod ang anay sang aktres kag TV host nga si Kris Aquino nga sanday Josh kag Bimby sang nagpadulong ini sa iya opisina.
Suno kay Presidente Marcos, si Kris, nga yara subong sa Estados Unidos agud magpabulong, ang nagpangayo sang travel assistance, nga wala naman gindetalye pa sini.
Ginkalipay naman sang presidente ang ginhimo sang mag-utod nga sanday Josh kag Bimby nga pagbisita sa First Lady.
“So tumulong si First Lady, sabi niya magpasalamat sila … and so I think it was a fine gesture on the part of the Aquino family,”dugang pa sini.
Ginpakigbahin man sang presidente nga ang First Lady ang tiya nanday Josh kag Bimby.
Dahil ang kanyang auntie ay napangasawa si Don Pepe na eldest brother of Cory so they are related,” paathag sang presidente.
Treñas, ginatugyan na kay Baronda ang pagpangalan sang mga ginadudahan “sleeper agents” ukon spy nga naga-istar sa Iloilo City
ILOILO CITY – Ginatugyan na ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas kay Iloilo City Lone District Rep.
Julienne ‘Jamjam’ Baronda ang pagpagwa sang pangalan sang mga ginadudahan “sleeper agents” ukon spy nga naga-istar sa syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga si Baronda ang may personal nga ihibalo sa hulag sang mga ginapahayag “sleeper agents nga naga-istar sa mga exclusive subdivision sa syudad kag indi makahibalo maghambal sang lengwahe nga English.
Matandaan nga personal nga ginhingyo ni Rep.
Baronda kay Justice Secretary Jesus Crispin Remulla nga imbestigaran ang pagdamo sang mga undocumented nga Chinese na naga-istar sa Puerto Real de Iloilo sa La Paz, Monterosa Subdivision sa Mandurriao, at Ledesco Subdivision sa La Paz.
Suno sa mamalidha, makaduluda nga makabakal ang mga Chinese sang dalagko ng mga balay nga nagabalor sang P30 tubtob P50 million kag mangin sang mga luxury sports utility vehicles.
Apisar suno sa iya nga duda lang ang mga ini, nagakadapat sa gihapon nga i-validate ini sang Department of Justice sa bulig man sang National Bureau of Investigation kag Bureau of Immigration kun may kaangtanan ang mga ini sa iligal nga aktibidad nga mahimo makaapekto sa national security.
Ginbalikan man sini ang pagkadakop sa 17 ka mga undocumented nga Chinese nationals sa Lawaan Village sa Barangay Balantang, Jaro, Iloilo City nga nagapatigayon sang cybersex kag human trafficking activities.
ILOILO CITY- Ginalantaw ni Retired Police Major Charlie Sustento nga pamaagi lang sang mga pumuluyo sang pagpakita sang suporta para sa ila plano nga magpadalagan sa masunod nga eleksyon ang napangtapik nga mga tarpaulin.
Nabutang sa tarpaulin ang mga tinaga nga “Sa Cuarto Distrito, Oso na ang Pineula kag Sustento.”
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Sustento, iya ginpahayag nga pagpabutyag ini sang mga pumuluyo nga luyag nila sang bag-o nga mga lideres nga magapamuno sa ila distrito.
Suno pa kay Sustento, nahangpan niya nga ang handom sang mga tawo amo ang isa ka lider nga wala lang nasandig sa kwarta ang panghimanwa kag halos indi man mapalapitan kag makita sang mga pumuluyo.
Matandaan nga sang Abril pa ginkumpirma ni Sustento ang ila plano ni retired Police Lt.
Jonathan Pinuela nga magpadalagan sa 2025 midterm elections.
Apang ginapilian pa kun sino sa ila nga duha ang magapadalagan bilang Representative kag Board Member.
Indi naman mapat-ud ni Sustento kun si Board Member Domingo Oso ukon ang anak sini nga ginabati-bati man nga magpadalagan ang ginatumod sa amo nga tarpaulin.
Apang ginkumpirma sini nga magparyentehanay man lang sila ni Oso.
Madumduman nga isa si Board Member Oso sa ginaduso nga magpadalagan sa pagka-bise gobernador agud mangin ka-tandem ni Governor Arthur Defensor Jr.
nga amo naman ang ginasuportahan ni Sustento.
Sang nagligad nga eleksyon, magkaupod sa partido sanday Oso kag si Iloilo 4th District Board Member Ferj Biron nga amo ang mortal nga kaaway ni Sustento.
Sang Hunyo ,ginpahayag ni Biron nga plano niya nga magpa-reelect kag kun magdesisyon si Sustento nga magpadalagan bilang Congressman, sila nga duha ang magabungguanay.
Warrant of arrest para kay Duterte, possible nagahilapit na nga ipagwa – political law expert
Nagapati ang isa ka political law expert nga nagahilapit na ang panahon sa pagpagwa sang International Criminal Court (ICC) sang warrant of arrest para kay anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Joenar Pueblo, political law professor sa University of San Agustin College of Law, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang sa pihak sang pagpakatig-a sang Malakanyang nga indi ini magbulig sa pag-imbestigar sa pagpatay sang linibo ka mga indibidwal kaangot sa ‘war on drugs’ sang anay administrasyon.
Suno kay Pueblo, una na nga ginpahayag sang ICC nga gin-ugyunan sang mga hukom ang rekomendasyon nga maimbestigaran ang ‘drug related killings’ sa Pilipinas sa rason nga nakitaan ang mga ini sang element sang ‘crimes against humanity.’
Nagbiya sang 2019 ang Pilipinas sa ICC, apang suno sa Hague-based International Tribunal mahimo sa gihapon nga maimbestigaran si Duterte tubtob bag-o pa ang pagtalikod sang pungsod sa kasugtanan.
Ini man ang mga rason suno sa abogado kun ngaa nagahimo subong sang mga isyu ang pamilya Duterte agud maglain ang issue.
Duterte, nanginwala nga magapadalagan siya sa pagka-senador
Nagpanginwala si anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte nga mapadalagan siya sa pagka-senador sa 2025 elections.
Baliskad ini sa gin-anunsyo sang iya anak nga si Vice President Sara nga may plano nga magpadalagan sa pagka-senador ang iya amay kag duha ka mga utod nga sanday Davao City Mayor Sebastian “Baste” Duterte kag Davao City First District Representative Paolo Duterte.
Suno naman sa 79-anyos nga former president, indi dapat pagpatihan ang ginhambal sang iya anak nga bise-presidente.
Ginpahayag man sini nga indi na siya magbalik sa pulitika bangud tigulang na siya kag wala siya sang budget.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga adlaw, ginplastar man ni Sara nga wala siya nakahibalo kun may iban nga updon sa line-up sang iya amay, apang sa iya pagbanta, bangud halin ang iya amay sa Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP), posible nga may iban man halin sa amo nga partido nga makaupod sa ila nga senatorial slate.
Iban nga PDP members, posible mag-upod sa Senate slate sang mga Duterte —VP Sara
Ginplastar ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga nagahanda na para sa senatorial elections ang iya amay nga si anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte kag duha ka mga utod nga sanday Sebastian (Baste) kag Paolo (Pulong).
Suno kay Sara, wala siya nakahibalo kun may iban pa sila nga updon sa line-up, apang sa iya pagbanta, bangud halin ang iya amay sa Partido Federal ng Pilipinas, posible nga may iban man halin sa amo nga partido nga makaupod sa ila nga senatorial slate.
”Hindi ko alam kung meron ba silang mga kasamahan sa lineup pero dahil, ito ay assumption ko lang, si Pangulong Duterte ay galing sa PDP, likely kasama rin niya ang ibang PDP na mga senador,” dugang sini.
Nahibaluan nga ang PDP ang may yara sang tatlo ka mga senador nga posible magpa-eleher liwat: sanday Ronald ”Bato” dela Rosa, Christopher ”Bong” Go, kag Francis Tolentino.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang bise-presidentE nga ginhambalan siya sang iya iloy nga magbalik sa Davao City kag magpadalagan bilang mayor.
Sang ginpamangkot ini anay kun mag-resign siya bilang vice president, ginsiling siya nga wala naistoryahan ang amo nga bagay.
Hunyo 19 sang nagpasa si Sara sang resignation sa Gabinete ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
apang nagapabilin nga vice president sa pungsod.
Voice over sa prusisyon sa Byernes Santo sa Bulacan, A.I.
Gin-ulan sang nanari-sari nga reaksyon ang video nga naglapta online nga nagapakita sang prusisyon sa Barangay Calvario, Meycauayan, Bulacan kadungan sang Byernes Santo.
Indi ang prusisyon mismo ang ginmuno sang netizens kundi ang voice over.
Sa baylo nga may live prayer leader, nagagwa kun pamatian nga ang rosaryo nga ginapatunog sa portable sound system ang gin-generate paagi sa artificial intelligence ukon A.I.
Sabat sang isa: “*lumabas bigla yung CEO.”
Madamo naman ang nagpahayag nga tinamad kag indi seryoso sa pagpangamuyo ang paggamit sang A.I.
“Hindi tinipid pero tinamad hahaha,” pahayag sang isa samtang may mga nagasiling naman nga daw nagalantaw lang sila sang random reels sa ila feed.
May mga naham-ot kag nag-share sang videos, samtang madamo naman ang nagpabutyag sang pagkadismaya ilabi na nga parte ini sang Holy Week celebration.
apaka tamad nyu manalangin!,” komento pa sang isa ka netizen.
Ginahulat pa ang statement sang mga opisyal sa Barangay Calvario, Meycauayan, Bulacan agud klaruhon kun naggamit sang pre-recorded, non-human voice kadungan sini nga Catholic tradition.
‘Urbi et Orbi’: Pope Leo XIV, nagpanawagan nga untaton na ang gyera
Ginpanawagan ni Pope Leo XIV sa mga lider sang mga nasyon nga tapuson na ang giyera kag isikway ang anuman nga mga buluhaton nga nagatuyo makaangkon sang gahum, impluwensya, kag kontrol.
Nangin sentro ini sang mensahe sang Santo Papa sa iya una nga “Urbi et Orbi” ukon “to the city and the world” blessing sa Easter sa Vatican.
Para sa mga Kristyano, ang Easter amo ang pinaka-importante nga petsa sa liturgical calendar nga nagamarka sang pagkabanhaw ni Hesus.
Matigdas nga kritiko si Pope Leo sa gyera sa Middle East, apang sa iya mensahe sa Domingo sang Pagkabanhaw, wala ini sang ginmitlang nga pangalan sang anuman nga pungsod.
Pahayag pa sini, naanad na ang mga tawo sa kasingki tubtub nga wala na sang labot sa isa kag isa.
Diri kag iya na ginsal-ot ang hingyo nga pilion ang kalinong sa baylo sang gyera.
Antes ang iya panawagan, ginbalikan pa ni Pope Leo ang istorya sang Easter nga nagapakita nga indi bayolente si Kristo.
Nakit-an ini suno sa Santo Papa sang nagsunod sa Kristo sa pagbuot sang iya Amay nga agud mahilway ang katawhan nga mga ulipon, siya mismo ang nagpaka-ulipon; kag agud mahatagan sang kabuhi ang mga mortal, siya mismo ang napatay sa Krus.
Gin-anunsyo man ni Pope Leo XIV nga pangunahan sini ang “prayer vigil for peace” sa Sabado, Abril 11, sa St.
Gintapos sang Santo Papa ang iya mensahe paagi sa Easter greetings sa walo ka mga lenggwahe lakip na ang Latin, Arabic, kag Chinese.#
China, magabulig sa Russia sa pagduso sang kalinong sa Middle East —Foreign Minister
Handa ang China nga magbulig sa Russia sa United Nations Security Council (UNSC) agud nga mapahagan-hagan ang tensyon sa Middle East.
Ginpahayag ini ni Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi kay Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov sa ila pag-istoryahanay sa telepono.
Suno kay Wang, kinahanglan ang ceasefire sa labing-madali nga tion agud masolbar na ang problema sa Strait of Hormuz.
Gindugang sini nga masami gid nga naga-upod ang China sa pagduso sang mga kawsa sang political settlement sa mga mainit nga isyu paagi sa dayalogo kag mga negosasyon.
Natabo ang pag-istoryahanay sang duha ka opisyal sang Russia kag China antes ang botohay sa UNSC sa masunod nga semana.
Botohan ang resolution sang Bahrain nga nagatuyo nga proteksyunan ang commercial shipping sa sulod kag sa palibot sang Strait of Hormuz.
Pareho nga permanent members sang UN Security Council ang China kag ang Russia.
Una na nga nagpaguwa sang statement ang Russian Foreign Ministry nga gindiskusyunan nila sang opisyal sang China ang mga paagi nga makasugtanay sa ceasefire kag mapatigayon ang “political-diplomatic dialogue.”
Mga nagapalapta sang fake news nga may ‘energy lockdown’, kasuhan sang Malacañang
Nagpaandam ang Malacañang nga kasuhan ang mga tawo nga nagapalapta sang fake news nga magapatuman sang lockdown ang gobyerno bangud sa problema sa suplay sang gatong kag bangud sa gina-alegar bag-o nga variant sang COVID-19.
Suno kay Presidential Communications Office (PCO) Secretary Dave Gomez, indi pag-itolerar sang Palasyo ang amo sini nga sahi sang malisyoso nga mga pahayag nga nagatuyo lang nga mapalapta ang ila personal kag pulitikal nga mga interes.
Matandaan nga may naglapta sa social media nga may “emergency lockdown” nga maga-umpisa sa 20.
May yara pa gid sang online post nga naga-unod man sang sala nga impormasyon nga may “emergency lockdown” nga himuon bangud sa COVID-19 Cicada variant.
Sa amo nga post, gin-gamit pa ang logo sang health department agud mapagwa nga lehitimo ang iya post.
Suno sa PCO, gina-verify na nila ang original sources sang amo nga posts.
Nagpahanumdom ini nga ang pagpaguwa sang sala-sala nga mga impormasyon ang mahimo masilutan sang tubtub sa anum ka bulan nga pagkapreso sa idalom sang Article 154 sang Revised Penal Code.
Mahimo pa mag-isa ka tuig ang pagkapreso kun mapamatud-an nga ang sala ang nakomiter online ukon sakop na sang Republic Act No.
Suno pa sa Malacañang, makabig nga serious offense ang anuman nga tuyo nga patalangon ang publiko kaangot sa energy security, supply ukon presyuhanay subong sa tunga sang krisis dala sang gyera.
Matandaan nga may anti-fake news nga gintukod ang PCO sang nagligad nga bulan nga may koordinasyon sa Department of Justice agud nga mapasakaan gilayon sang kaso ang nagapalapta sang deceptive information ukon naga-manipulate sang markets.
Gina-monitor sang PCO kag mga partner sini sa Oplan Kontra Fake News initiative ang social media kag iban pa nga information platforms agud ma-detect kag mabali gilayon kun may yara sang disinformation campaigns.#
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pagtukod sang food security task force agud nga ma-monitor sang maayo ang anuman nga problema sa suplay, presyo, kag pagpamaligya sang produktong agrikultura nga tuga sang krisis sang langis.
Suno kay DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., ini nga task force ang magabulos sa ad hoc monitoring system.
Ma-track sini nga task force indi lamang ang suplay kag ang presyo sang nagapanguna nga balaklon kundi pati na ang imports kag ang exports.
Importante ang data nga makuha sang task force para nga malantaw sang maayo ang food situation sa pungsod.
Ipakigbahin ang kopya sini sa Kongreso kag sa Office of the President.
Iga-track man sang amo nga task force ang halit bangud sa paglain sang mga ruta sa Middle East.
Lakip sa apektado bangud sa shipping routes amo ang nagapanguna nga Philippine exports kaangay sang saging kag pinya.
Nakit-an sang DA nga may daku nga “opportunity losses” sa exporters ang amo nga problema bangud nga kinahanglan nila ibutang ang shipments sa lain nga market sa mas manubo na nga presyo.
Agud masuportahan ang sector, nagapakig-angot ang DA sa financial institutions kaangay sang Land Bank of the Philippines agud nga makahatag sang assistance sa exporters nga nagapamyerdehan.
Ginalantaw man subong sang ahensya ang dugang nga mga market nga kadtuan sang exports kaangay sa Africa, Australia, Europe, kag sa Southeast Asia apisar nga may limitasyon gihapon bangud sa logistical challenges kag sa competition.#
Gilbert Garcera D.D., nagpanawagan sa publiko nga magpangamuyo sa mga kauturan nga apektado sang gyera
Nagpanawagan si Most Reverend Gilbert Garcera D.D., President sang Catholic Bishop’s Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) sa publiko nga magpangamuyo sa mga kauturan nga apektado sang gyera.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Garcera, iya ginpakigbahin ang iya kasubo bangud apisar sang bugay sang kabuhi ni Hesus subong nga adlaw sang Easter Sunday, may mga kauturan kita nga nagaantos bangud sa nagapadayon nga gyera ilabi na sa Middle East kag Myanmar.
Gintuad ni Garcera ang pag-antus nga ginabatyag sang tagsa ka indibidwal nga biktima sang gyera kag padayon sa gihapon nga nagalaum sang kalinong kag kahilwayan sang Dios.
Ginpasalamatan man ni Garcera ang Bombo Radyo Philippines kag Star Fm.
sa padayon nga supporta kag serbisyo nga ginahatag sini sa CBCP kag sa publiko.
7,000 ka mga pasyente, gin-respondihan sang Philippine Red Cross (PRC) sa bilog nga pungsod halin sang nagsugod ang Semana Santa 2026
Naka-record sang halos 7,000 ka mga pasyente nga gin-respondihan ang Philippine Red Cross (PRC) sa bilog nga pungsod halin sang nagsugod ang Semana Santa 2026, suno sa ahensya.
Base sa datos sang PRC, halin sang Marso 29 nga adlaw sang Palm Sunday ukon Domingo de ramos, hasta alas-9 sang aga sang Black Saturday, nakabatun ang mga ini sang ginabanta 7,137 ka mga indibidwal nga nagapangayo sang bulig.
Sa amo nga numero, 6,514 ang na-monitor ang vital signs, kaupod ang 26 major cases kag 583 minor cases.
14 naman ka mga pasyente ang na-transfer sa mga ospital para sa nagakaigo nga pagbulong.
Gilbert Garcera D.D., nagpanawagan sa publiko nga magpangamuyo sa mga kauturan nga apektado sang gyera subong nga adlaw sang pagkabanhaw
Actress nga si Katrina Halili kag R&B singer nga si Kris Lawrence, nangin huring-huring ang posible “comeback” matapos nagsaulog sang semana santa nga magkaupod
Nangin huring-huring sa karun ang posible “comeback” sang actress nga si Katrina Halili kag sang R&B singer nga si Kris Lawrence, matapos ang mga ini nagsaulog sang semana santa nga magkaupod.
Makit-an sa social media post sang actress ang mga sweet moments sini kaupod si Kris kag ang ila bata nga si Katie sa El Nido nga may caption nga “Barefoot in the sand.
Madamo naman sang mga netizens ang nag-react kag gin-kilig bangud sa posibilidad nga liwat nga pag-ayuhay sang duha.
Matandaan nga nangin mag-partner si Katrina kag Kris sang 2014 kag nagbulagay ang mga ini matapos ang lima ka tuig nila nga relasyon.
Wala naman sang kumpirmasyon ang duha sa ila status, apang masami na ang mga ini magkaupod sa ila mga social media post.
Panibag-o nga pagtaas sa presyo sang langis, lauman sa masunod nga semana
Nakatalana nga magpatuman ang mga kumpaniya sang langis sang panibag-o nga pagtaas sang presyo sa mga poduktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
*Gasolina- Posible magsaka sa P4 hasta P7 kada litro.
*Diesl- Posible magsaka sa P17 hasta P20 kada litro.
*kerosene- Posible magsaka sa P9 hasta P12 kada litro.
Iga-anunsyo ang pinal nga price adjustment sa Lunes nga adlaw Abril 6 kag iga-patuman sa Martes sang aga Abril 7.
Sarang man nga magbag-o ang presyo sini depende sa adjustment sang presyo sang langis sa World Market.
Lola sa Davao del Sur, patay matapos ginbuno sang nagpahilot sa iya
Wala na sang kabuhi sang nasapwan ang 75-anyos nga lola sa ila nga balay sa Brgy.
Cruz, Davao del Sur matapos nga ginpatay ini sang magapahilot kuntani sa iya pasado alas-11:30 sang gab-i, Abril 3.
Cruz Municipal Police Station, ginkilala ang biktima kay Lola Tina, samtang ang suspek naman amo si ”Alyas Atan” nga residente man sang nasambit nga lugar.
Base sa pahayag sang apo sang biktima, nag-abot ang suspek nga hubog kag nagpangabay ini nga magpahilot.
Naglakat ang apo sang makadali agud may baklon, apang sang nagbalik na ini, nasapwan na lang sini nga wala na sang kabuhi kag nagapaligo na lang sang kaugalingon sini nga dugo bangud sa pagpangbuno.
Nakatakas naman ang suspek kag sa karon padayon pa nga ginpangita sang mga kapulisan.
Suspendido sa gihapon ang mga aktibidades sa Mt.
Kabunian, sa Bakun, Benguet halin kahapon nga adlaw, Abril 3 bangud sa grass fire incident nga nagluntad sa lugar.
Naapektuhan man sini ang mga kaipi sini nga lugar bangud sa sunog.
Kabunian nga kilala bangud sa malapad sini nga tourist spot nga “Stairway to Mt.
Kabunian” nga isa ka popular nga nga destinasyon sang mga mountaineer.
Suno sa Bakun MDRRMC, mas importante ang seguridad sang publiko kag nagapanawagan man ang mga ini sa pag-intindi kag kooperasyon sa publiko.
Padayon naman ang ginapatigayon nga pag-monitor sa lugar agud masiguro nga maayo na ang kondisyon sini matapos ang lapnagon nga grassfire.
2 ka pulis kag 1 ka empleyado sang Bureau of Corrections, patay matapos nga matiruhan sa Puerto Princesa City, Palawan
Patay ang duwa ka pulis kag isa ka empleyado sang Bureau of Corrections (BuCor), matapos nga matiruhan sa Barangay Irawan sa Puerto Princesa City, Palawan, gab-i sang Byernes Santo, Abril 3, 2026.
Suno sa nakakita nga residente sa lugar, may ara sang komprontasyon nga natabo sa tunga sang mga pulis kag pila ka mga tambay sa lugar pasado 9:40 sang gab-i.
Naghalin ang mga pulis sa lugar apang sang nagbalik ang mga ini may dala na nga mga back-up nga nagresulta sa panibag-o nga komprontasyon sa tunga sang mga ini kun sa diin may ara na sang pagbinaslanay sang lupok.
Ginkilala ang mga napatay nga sanday Police Staff Sergeants Ryan Cris Cabaña kag Jayson Fernandez, nga pareho nga na-assign sa Puerto Princesa City Police Station 2, kag si Jerson Ojario Talon sang BuCor.
Naglunsyar naman ang mga ini sang manhunt operation agud mahibaluan kag maaresto ang mga suspek.
Dugang pa diri nagmandu man ang Police Director sang pagsugod sang case buildup kag estrikto nga operasyon.
PH-flagged ships kag Pinoy seafarers, paagyon sang Iran sa Strait of Hormuz
Ginpasalig sang Iran nga paagyon sini nga hilway sa katalagman ang mga barko sang Pilipinas kag ang Filipino seafarers sa Strait of Hormuz.
Nakuha ni Foreign Affairs Secretary Theresa Lazaro ang commitment paagi sa iya pagtawag kay Iranian Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi.
Suno sa Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), nagpromisa ang Iran nga tugutan sini nga maglabay nga wala sang obstruction ukon indi pagbalabagan ukon pagbombahan ang mga barko kag energy shipments sang Pilipinas kag ang tanan nga Filipino seafarers.
Isa ini ka daku nga development nga ginahulat sang Pilipinas agud nga mapahagan-hagan ang krisis sa enerhiya nga tuga sang masobra isa ka bulan na nga gyera sa Middle East.
Gina-import sang Pilipinas halin sa Middle East ang 98% sang krudo nga ginagamit sini, gani nga tuman man ka daku ang epekto halin sang ginsiradhan sang Iran ang Strait of Hormuz sa temprano nga bahin sang Marso.
Suno pa sa DFA, bangud sang pasalig sang Iran, ginalantaw nga mangin steady na ang pag-deliver sang langis kag fertilizers supplies sa Pilipinas.
Nahibaluan nga may amo man sini nga kasugtanan ang Iran sa iban nga mga pungsod sa kondisyon nga indi lang sila magpasilabot sa gyera.
Sang Marso 26, matandaan nga nag-anunsyo ang Foreign Ministry sang amo nga pungsod nga tugutan nila nga makalabay sa Strait ang mga barko halin sa China, Russia, India, Iraq, kag Pakistan.#
Nagapati si Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson nga pangamuyo ang sabat sa mga tikang ni United States of America President Donald Trump bangud sa dako sini nga partisipasyon sa nagapadayun nga tension indi lang sa Middle East, apang sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Suno kay Lacson, matapos ang isa ka pandemya nga gin-atubang sang kalibutan nga Corona Virus ukon CoVid-19, kinahanglan naman nga pangamuyuan sang publiko ang ‘Trump-26’.
Ini kasunod man sang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East sa suplay sang langis sa Pilipinas kun sa diin nagtimbuok na ini sa masobra P100.
Dugang pa sang senador, mas naglala na ang sitwasyon sang ekonomiya sang pungsod bangud sa gyera.
Pilipinas, nagpangabay nga ikonsiderar sang Iran nga isa ka “non-hostile country”
Nagpangabay ang Pilipinas sa Iran nga ikonsiderar ang pungsod nga isa ka “non-hostile country” agud nga masiguro nga hilway sa ano man nga pagpang-atake ang mga shipping vessels sang pungsod nga magalabay sa Strait of Hormuz samtang nagapadayun ang gyera sa Middle East.
Ini matapos ang ginpatigayon nga pagsinapol sang pila ka mga opisyal sang Pilipinas sa pagpanguna ni Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) Secretary Tess Lazaro kay Iranian Ambassador to the Philippines Yousef Esmaeilzadeh.
Claire Castro, nagpalab-ot man sang positibo nga sabat si Esmaeilzadeh nga handa sila nga magbulig ilabi na sa suplay sang langis, samtang ini amo ang nagpahayag nga ipaagi gid sa iban pa nga mataas nga opisyal ang nasambit nga diskusyon.
Nahibaluan nga padayun nga nagaubra sang tikang kag diskusyon ang Pilipinas kun sa diin magapakig-angot man si Lazaro sa Foreign Minister sang Iran agud nga mas mapasangkad ang relasyon sini sa nasmabit nga pungsod ilabi na subong nga padayun pa nga nagasaka ang presyo sang gatong.
Malacañang kay Imee: ‘Sino kaya ang naging pasaway?
Ginsabat sang Malacañang ang video ni Senator Imee Marcos nga nagapangayo sang pasaylo sa iya amay nga si late president Ferdinand Marcos Sr.
bangud wala sini nabantayan sang maayo ang iya manghod nga si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Claire Castro kun sin-o gid man bala ang wala nabantayan sang maayo.
Suno kay Castro, kun lantawon si President Marcos, wala ini nagapamuyayaw, wala nagapamahog, kasado, may pamilya, kag tubtub subong loyal sa iya asawa nga si First Lady Louise ”Liza” Araneta-Marcos.
”Ang sabi niya ay ‘hindi nabantayan.’ Sino kaya talaga ang hindi nabantayan ng magulang at sino ba talaga ang hindi nabantayan ang kapatid?” suno kay Castro.
Dugang sini: ”Unang-una po, ang Pangulo, hindi po ito nagmumura, hindi ito nagmi-meltdown lalo na sa publiko at hindi po ito nagbabanta sa buhay ninuman.
Ang Pangulo po ay ikinasal, may pamilya, hanggang ngayon ay faithful sa asawa.
Nagdepensa man si Castro nga wala gin-guba ni Bongbong ang imahe sang iya mga utod.
”Alam po ng Pangulo ang nangyayari sa atin at sa mga pangyayari sa ating paligid.
At asahan po natin na ang Pangulo, hindi po siya naninira ng kaniyang kapatid,” pahayag pa ni Castro.
Matandaan nga emosyonal si Imee sa iya video sang Lunes Santo nga nag-sorry kay Marcos, Sr.
bangud suno sa iya, wala gid sini nasarangan nga bantayan si Bongbong apisar nga amo ini ang bilin sang ila amay.#
Imee Marcos, nag-sorry kay Sara Duterte subong nga Semana Santa
Nagpangayo sang pasaylo si Senator Imee Marcos kay Vice President Sara Duterte bangud suno sa iya ginpahamak niya ini sang gin-engganyo niya ang bise-presidente nga magpadalagan sang tinalikdan nga 2022 elections.
Ini na ang ikaduha nga video ni Imee nga ginpagwa subong nga Semana Santa kun sa diin nagapangayo ini sang kapatawaran santo suno sa iya sa gintudlo sa iya sang una sang amay sini nga si former President Ferdinand Marcos, Sr.
Suno kay Imee, na-guilty gid siya sa natabo kay Sara kag amo man sa iya pamilya partikular na si former president Rodrigo Duterte.
Nagapangatubang si Sara sang impeachment, samtang ang amay nga Duterte ang masobra isa ka tuig na nga didto sa ICC detention facility sa The Hague.
Suno kay Imee, kun wala lang niya gin-engganyo si Sara, kuntani nagapakalinong ini sa Davao, nagapungko bilang mayor, kag wala sang gamo.
“Hihingi rin siguro ako ng tawad dapat sa mga Duterte, higit sa lahat sa VP natin, kay Inday Sara.
Talagang naiisip ko na guilting-guilty ako.
Mayor siya, walang kalaban-laban, walang hassle, walang gulo,” suno sa senadora.
Kuntani, dugang pa ni Imee, yari pa sa Pilipinas ang anay presidente.
“Si Presidente, si Tatay Digong, nandito sana sa piling natin.
Sabi nga niya, ‘pag nayayamot, sasabihin sa akin, ‘Kasalanan mo ‘to eh, dinamay-damay mo pa ako eh.’ Sabi ko, ‘Talaga, dinamay kita pero hindi ko na naman akalain magkakaganito,’” pahayag pa ni Imee.
bangud suno sa iya, wala gid sini nasarangan nga bantayan nga si President Bongbong Marcos apisar nga amo ini ang bilin sang ila amay.#
Marcos: Philippine names, dapat gamiton para sa 131 features sa Kalayaan
ang paghatag sang local names sa 131 ka mga features sang Kalayaan Island Group (KIG) sa West Philippine Sea.
Ini ang santo sa nakabutang sa Executive Order No.
111 nga pirmado ni Marcos sang Marso 26.
Sa amo nga order, ginmanduan ang National Mapping and Resource Information Authority nga mag-produce kag mag-publish sang updated charts kag mapa nga naga-reflect sang lokal nga mga pangalan sang mga lugar.
Ginmanduan man ang national government agencies kag instrumentalities nga gamiton ini nga lokal nga mga pangalan sa ila nga official communications, messages, kag documents.
Sa sektor sang edukasyon, dapat man nga gamiton ini nga mga pangalan sa educational kag training institutions amo man sa pag-conduct sang research, sa pagpaguwa sang mga textbooks, kag sa pagpreparar sang educational ukon instructional materials.
Gin-cite sang EO ang rekomendasyon halin sa National Maritime Council nga i-adopt ang standard set sang Philippine names para sa 131 features sang KIG sa Kalayaan sa Palawan, agud masiguro ang maayo nga pang-dumalahan sa area kag agud mapakita ang soberanya sang Pilipinas sa West Philippine Sea.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom naman sang Philippine Maritime Zones Act, mahimo tawgon bilang West Philippine Sea ang maritime zones sang Pilipinas sa western side sang Philippine archipelago lakip na ang Luzon Sea kag Bajo de Masinloc kag maritime features sang KIG.
Mga progresibo nga grupo, nakulangan sa resulta sang imbestigasyon sang ICI sa flood control
Nagpabutyag sang pagkadismaya ang pila ka mga progresibo nga grupo sa resulta sang imbestigasyon sang Independent Commission for Infrastructure sa isyu sang korapsyon sa flood control projects.
Kadungan sang pagtakop sa operasyon sang amo nga komisyon, nakulangan ang mga grupo sa pagpasabat sa tanan nga involved sa korapsyon.
Suno kay Teddy Casiño, Chairperson sang Bagong Alyansang Makabayan, indi sila kuntento sa imbestigasyon sang Independent Commission for Infratructure, Office of the Ombudsman kag Senado.
Suno naman kay David San Juan sang Kilusang Bayan Kontra Kurakot, nangin limitado lamang ang imbestigasyon sang Independent Commission for Infrastructure.
Pahayag niya, wala natumod sa imbestigasyon ang matuod nga ‘mastermind’ kag wala man sang napapreso nga mga matag-as nga opisyal kalakip na ang mga yara sa Palasyo sang Malakanyang.
Kapalaran ni VP Sara, pwede magpareho kay Corona
Ysabel Maria Zamora, Vice Chairman sang House Justice panel, kay anay Chief Justice Renato Corona ang kapalaran nga nagahulat kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Suno kay Zamora, iga-review sang ila nga komitiba ang non-disclosure kag indi mapaathag nga manggad ni VP Sara.
Matandaan nga na-impeach si Corona kag na-convict sa Senado sang 2012 bangud sa kapaslawan nga mapagwa ang tanan nga assets kag bank accounts nga yara sa iya nga SALN.
Paathag ni Zamora, mahimo nga mangin ground sang impeachment sa idalom sang ‘betrayal of public trust’ ang bisan pagpanas lang sang indi mapaathag nga manggad.
Madumduman nga isyu sang SALN ang nalakip sa complaints batok kay Duterte.
Petron, nakabakal sang 2.48-million barrels nga krudo halin sa Russia
Sigurado na ang suplay sang produktong petrolyo sa Petron tubtub sa bulan sang Hunyo subong nga tuig.
Ginpahayag ini sang korporasyon sa pagpanguna sang tycoon nga si Ramon Ang matapos nga nakahitso na sang kasugtanan nga magbakal sang 2.48 million barrels sang krudo halin sa Russia.
Suno pa sa oil giant, ang ila tikang nga magkuha sang dugang nga suplay halin sa Russia ang indi kabahin sang “business-as-usual sourcing strategy” sang korporasyon.
Apang dugang sini, bangud sang sitwasyon subong sa Pilipinas kun sa diin napaidalom na ang pungsod sa state of energy emergency kasunod sang gyera sa Middle East, nagtulod ini sa Petron nga magpatigayon sang “extraordinary emergency measure.”
Antes sini, naggwa na ang reports nga nakabaton ang Petron sang masobra sa 700,000 barrels sang Russian crude oil sang nagligad pa nga semana.
Ginkumpirma man sang Malacañang ang pag-abot sang amo nga suplay.
Ang Petron amo ang naga-uyat sang 30 percent sang market share sa local fuel supply.
Amo man ini ang isahanon lang nga oil refiner sa Pilipinas.#
DOE: Fuel inventory sang Pilipinas subong, makasarang pa tubtub 50 ka adlaw
Makaigu pa ang suplay sang langis sa Pilipinas tubtub sa 50 ka adlaw.
Ini ang latest update nga ginhatag sang Department of Energy (DOE) as of March 27, 2026 sandig sa gin-anunsyo sa press briefing subong nga gab-i.
Mas malawig ini ipaanggid sa gin-report sang ahensya sang nagligad nga semana nga pang-45 ka adlaw na lang ang suplay sa Pilipinas.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Executive Secretary Ralph Recto nga naka-order na ang Marcos administration sang one million barrels ukon masobra 165 million liters nga diesel halin sa lain-lain nga mga pungsod.
Sa sini nga krudo, ginkumpirma sang DOE nga ang una nga shipment magahalin sa Japan nga 22.6 million liters kag natalana na ini nga mag-abot sa masunod nga semana.
Ginpahat-pahat man ang ginapaabot pa nga deliveries sa Abril nga amo ang:
Ginpresentar man sang DOE ang breakdown sang available days sang suplay kada fuel product nga amo ang masunod:
Padayon nga gina-engganyo ang mga Pilipino nga magkinot sang gatong samtang wala pa sang kasiguruhan kun san-o matapos ang gyera sa Middle East.#
Driver nga nagpalagyo matapos nagpa-full tank sa gas station sa QC, nagsungka na
Ginkumpirma sang Quezon City Police District subong nga gab-i nga nagsungka na ang driver nga involved sa insidente sa gasoline station kun sa diin nagpa-full tank ini apang nagpalagyo lang nga wala nagbayad.
Naga-edad sang 27-anyos ang driver kag gin-updan sang iya pamilya sang nag-surrender siya sa QCPD Station 1.
Antes sini, nauna na nga ginsiling sang awtoridad nga na-identify na nila ang driver kag ang salakyan paagi sa CCTV tracking kag koordinasyon sa iban nga mga ahensya sang gobyerno.
Sandig sa imbestigasyon, sang nag-viral na ang CCTV footage kun paano nagpalagyo ang salakyan, ginlimitahan naman sang driver ang iya paggwa kag naglikaw man ini pati sa social media.
Nagdepensa ini nga wala siya nakahibalo nga ginapangita na siya gali sang mga pulis.
Pahayag pa sang driver, nagtinir lang siya sa ila balay sa San Jose del Monte, Bulacan.
Domingo sang kaagahon sang natabo ang insidente.
Sakay ang suspek sa iya nga multi-purpose vehicle, nagpundo sa gas station sa EDSA, kag nag-request sang full tank sang diesel.
Nakit-an pa nga gintinguhaan ini nga lagson sang gasoline boy sang ginpalakat na sini ang salakyan nga wala nag-settle sang iya bill nga lab-ot sa P5,196.
Nauna na nga ginpahayag sang pulis nga may ipasaka nga estafa complaint paagi sa regular filing batok sa amo nga driver.#
Petronas Malaysia, ginklaro nga wala sila sang fuel supply arrangement sa Davao del Norte
Ginklaro sang oil and gas company sang Malaysia nga wala sila sang ginkasugtan nga magahatag sang suplay sang langis sa Davao de Norte provincial government.
Suno sa Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS), wala sila sang ihibalo sa amo nga arrangement kag wala gid sila nagsulod sa amo nga kasugtanan ukon commitment.
Gin-athag nila nga ang atensyon sini subong nakasentro sa pagsiguro nga may tayuyon nga suplay sang langis sa Malaysia.
Ini nga statement ang ginpaguwa kasunod sang pahayag ni Davao del Norte Governor Edwin Jubahib nga nagapakig-istorya na ang probinsya sa representative sang hari sang Malaysia agud makabakal sang ginabanta 44 million liters sang diesel.
Isa ang Pilipinas sa pinakaapektado halin sang nagsugod ang gyera sang Israel, US, kag Iran ilabi na bangud ginbalabagan ang Strait of Hormuz nga amo ang alagyan sang 20% sang langis nga ginagamit sang kalibutan.
First batch sang 1 million barrels sang diesel, maabot sa Pilipinas sa masunod nga semana
Magaabot na sa masunod nga semana ang una nga batch sang masobra isa ka milyon nga bariles sang krudo nga ginbakal sang gobyerno sang Pilipinas.
Katumbas ini sang 165.67 million litro nga suplay.
Suno kay Executive Secretary Ralph Recto, gin-order sang Department of Energy (DOE) ang amo nga langis kag makadugang ini sa suplay sang pungsod sa sulod sang lima ka adlaw.
Pahayag sini, kabahin ini sang target sang gobyerno nga makabakal sang tubtub 2-million barrels sang diesel.
May yara sang gin-invest nga ginabanta P20 billion sa idalom sang Emergency Energy Security Program sang DOE para sa sini nga procurement.
Gin-finalize ang kasugtanan sa suppliers paagi sa Philippine National Oil Company Exploration Corp..
Wala ginkumpirma sang gobyerno kun sanday sin-o ang kuhaan sini sang suplay, apang una ginpahayag nga gina-explore sini ang posible nga makahatag indi lamang sa Southeast Asia kundi mangin sa Japan, Canada, kag United States.
Sang nagligad nga semana, may nag-abot nga masobra 700,000 barrels sang krudo halin sa Russia nga gin-import man sang Pilipinas.
Ang consignee amo ang Petron Corp nga amo ang naga-operate sang isahanon nga oil refinery sang Pilipinas sa Limay, Bataan.
Imee Marcos: ‘Di ko nabantayan si Bongbong… Dad, patawad, ‘di ko talaga kinaya’
Nagpangayo sang pasaylo si Senator Imee Marcos sa iya amay nga si anay Presidente Ferdinand Marcos, Sr.
Ginpahayag ini sang senadora sa video message nga gin-release kadungan sang Lunes Santo.
Ginbalikan sini ang iya natun-an sa iya amay nga sa kada Semana Santa, dapat nga magpatawad ukon magpangayo sang kapatawaran.
Diri kag iya ginbalikan ang masami nga bilin man sang former president nga bantayan sini ang iya utod.
“Ngayon iniisip ko na ang dapat ihingi ko ng tawad.
Sa tatay ko, ihingi ko ng tawad na hindi ko nagampanan ‘yung utos niya, ‘yung habilin niya, paulit-ulit, hindi lang naman nung tumanda siya at mamamatay na, kundi talaga buong buhay yata namin—parating binibilin si Bongbong.
‘Bantayan mo yung kapatid mo.’ Parating sinasabing gano’n,” suno sa senadora.
“Hindi ko nabantayan eh… Kaya Dad, sinubukan ko talaga, pinagpilitan ko.
Pero hindi ko talaga kinaya,” emosyonal nga pahayag ni Imee.
Nahibaluan nga halin sang nagligad nga mga tinuig, indi na maayo ang relasyon sang mag-utod nga Marcos bangud sa pulitika kag pila pa ka mga isyu.
Sang 2025, matandaan nga ginpahayag pa sang senadora nga nagagamit sang iligal nga droga ang presidente.
Ginsabat naman ini sang Malacañang kag gintawag nga “desperate.”
Ginhangkat man anay ni Imee ang First Family nga magpaidalom sa hair follicle drug test agud nga mabali ang iya akusasyon, kabaylo sang DNA test agud mabali naman ang rumors kaangot sa kun sin-o ang iya ginikanan.#
Simbahan, tukuron sa Pag-asa Island sa West Philippine Sea
Ginpangunahan ni Bishop Soc Mesiona kag Retired Associate Justice Antonio Carpio ang ginhiwat nga ceremonial groundbreaking sang Catholic Church nga tukuron sa Pagasa Island.
Jay Tarriela ang pictures sa amo nga seremonya sa iya post subong nga adlaw, Marso 28.
Suno kay Tarriela, makabulig ang simbahan para sa espiritwal nga kinahanglanon sang mga residente sa isla agud nga mapabilin ang ila pagtuo ilabi na sa mga pamahog dala sang Chinese presence sa West Philippine Sea.
Nahibaluan man nga ini ang una nga balik ni Carpio sa Pag-asa Island halin sang 2012 sang ginahandaan pa lamang sini ang UN arbitral case nga ginpasaka sang Pilipinas batok sa nine-dash line sang China.
Sarangani Island, Davao Occidental, gintay-og sang magnitude 5.4 nga linog
Gintay-og sang magnitude 5.4 nga linog ang Sarangani Island, Davao Occidental subong nga adlaw, Marso 28.
Wala sang ginaantisipar nga damage, apang posible suno sa ahensya ang aftershocks.
Gilayon naman nga nagpahanumdom ang Office of Civil Defense sa mga pumuluyo sa lugar nga mag-aligmat kasunod sang report sang Phivolcs.#
Sa selebrasyon sang ika-81 nga kaadlawan ni anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte, nagpanawagan liwat si Vice President Sara Duterte nga magpabilin nga malig-on agud nga mapangapinan ang kinamatarong sang iya amay.
Gintawag sini nga “unconstitutional intrusion” ang pagdala sa iya amay sa The Hague agud mag-atubang sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Naka-detain ang amay nga Duterte sa ICC detention facility sa Netherlands halin sang Marso 2025 kag nagapangatubang sang kaso nga crimes against humanity nga nag-ugat sa iya kontrobersyal nga drug war.
Natapos na ang confirmation of charges hearing kag ginahulat na lang ang desisyon sang Pre-Trial Chamber 1 kun ipasaka sa trial ang amo nga kaso.
Sa gin-post ni VP Duterte nga video, nagpasalamat man ini sa tanan nga nagapalangga kag nagadumdom sa iya amay.
Patuloy nating ipaglaban ang dangal ng ating bansa.”#
Malacañang, indi pa makita ang peligro sang “energy lockdown” ukon kakulangan sang suplay sang kuryente kag langis sa pungsod
Wala pa sang nakita nga peligro ang Malacañang sang “energy lockdown” ukon kakulangan sang suplay sang kuryente kag langis sa pungsod apisar sa naga-lala nga kinagamo sa Middle East.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro, sa subong nga tion malayo pa ang pungsod sa sitwasyon pareho sang dekada ’70 nga may fuel rationing kag wala sang mga salakyan.
Dugang pa sang opisyal, bilang kabahin sang contingency plan sang administrasyon ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., aktibo nga nagapangita ang Department of Energy kag Department of Foreign Affairs sang alternatibo nga kuhaan sang produktong petrolyo nga wala naga-salig sa Middle East.
Ginmensyonar man ni Castro ang report ni Energy Secretary Sharon Garin nga sa subong naga-pakig-angot na ang Pilipinas sa mga pungsod kaangay sang India, Argentina, kag Canada agud masiguro ang padayon nga suplay sang langis sa pungsod.
Dugang pa ni Castro, samtang nagalaom ang gobyerno sa diplomatiko nga resolusyon sa tunga sang mga nagakinagamo nga pungsod, padayon man ang pagpanghanda sang Presidente agud malikawan ang pinakamalala nga sitwasyon nga mahimo magpabudlay sa mga Pilipino.
PBBM, nagmando nga i-recalibrate ang preparasyon sang Pilipinas para sa ASEAN 2026
nga i-recalibrate ang preparasyon sang Pilipinas para sa ASEAN 2026 agud nga makakinot kag magatutok lamang sa mas importante nga mga isyu.
Suno sa presidente, bilang kabahin nga tikang, ila na lang patigayunon online ang ginabulubanta nga 650 ka preparatory meetings.
Lakip diri ang mga meeting sang working groups, senior officials, kag ministerial level.
Ginkumpirmar man niya nga himuon nga simple ang Leaders’ Summit sa Mayo, nga maga-focus sa mga kinahanglan nga tutukan nga isyu kaangay sang energy security, mga pagkaon, kag kaayuhan sang migrant workers.
Nagpagwa na sang memorandum ang gobyerno agud ipatuman ini nga mga pagbag-o, lakip na ang paghiwat sang diplomatic briefings sang Department of Foreign Affairs.
Suno naman kay Executive Secretary Ralph Recto, katuyuan sini nga tikang nga mapabakod ang pagbinuligay sang Southeast Asian nations kag makahimo sang konkreto nga sabat sa mga nagakatabo nga global challenges, ilabi na subong ang ginapangatubang nga krisis sa Middle East.
Ginapaabot man nga magapatigayon ang gobyerno sang dugang nga pagkinot kag mahatag ang pondo sa mga programa nga magabulig sa mga pumuluyo nga apektado sang global oil crisis.
Ginpabutyag sang gobyerno nga mas importante subong ang madali kag praktikal nga solusyon kag indi ang engrande nga seremonya.
Automatic nationwide price freeze, wala pa ginapatuman sa mga nagapanguna nga mga balaklon
Gin-athag sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) nga wala pa ginapatuman ang automatic nationwide price freeze sa mga nagapanguna nga balaklon kag produkto pagkatapos sang deklarasyon ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Ini matapos nagpagwa si Marcos sang Executive Order No.
7581 ukon Price Act, insigida nga gina-freeze sang isa ka lugar ang presyo sang nagapanguna nga balaklon kon ini ideklara nga yara sa state of calamity, emergency, martial law, state of war, state of rebellion, kag kun ginsuspender ang writ of habeas corpus.
Ginpahayag sang DTI nga kasunod sang Executive Order 110, wala pa ginapatuman ang automatic nationwide price freeze sa idalum sang Price Act.
Nagapabilin naman nga alerto ang consumer protection teams sang ahensya.
Ang pinakabag-o nga monitoring sang DTI nagapakita nga may ara sang nagakaigo nga inventory sang mga nagapanguna nga balaklon
Sa karon, nagapabilin nga committed ang DTI sa pagbalanse sang interes sang mga consumer kag sang ekonomiya sang local manufacturers.
Suno naman kay Palace Press Officer Claire Castro, wala nila ginasarado ang posibilidad sang pagpatuman sang prize freeze.
Gindugang man sini nga ila pagatun-an ini sa senado kag ila pagabalansehon agud nga indi lamang ang isa ka sektor ang maapektuhan kundi balanse man para sa iban nga sector.
”Pag-deklarar sang State of National Energy Emergency isa ka pamatuod nga wala nagapabaya ang gobyerno”- Malacañang
Gin-athag sang Malacañang Palace nga ang pag-deklarar ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sang State of National Energy Emergency ang pamatuod nga wala nagapabaya ang gobyerno sa tunga sang ginpangatubang nga global crisis sa produktong petrolyo.
Claire Castro, ginpatuman ini nga tikang agud mapahagan-hagan kag mapunggan ang paglala sang sitwasyon sa pungsod bangod sang padayon nga kinagamo sa Middle East.
Ginpahayag sang opisyal nga katuyuan sang administrasyon nga mangin madasig ang paghatag sang mga solusyon antes paman maglab-ot ang pungsod sa isa ka “indi maayo nga sitwasyon.”
Sa idalom sang sini nga deklarasyon, ginahatagan sang gahom ang gobyerno nga padasigon ang pagkuha sang alternatibo nga suplay sang langis kag maghatag sang mga subsidiya para sa mga apektado nga sektor agud masiguro ang seguridad sang enerhiya sang pungsod tubtob matapos ang ginapangatubang nga krisis.
DBM, may ara sang nagakaigo nga pondo agud suportahan kag buligan ang DOLE para sa mga minimum wage earners
May ara sang nagakaigo nga pondo ang Department of Budget and Management (DBM) agud suportahan kag buligan ang Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) para sa mga minimum wage earners.
Ginpasiguro sang ahensya nga may nakahanda ini nga contingency funds kun magpangabay ukon magpangayo man sang bulig ang Department of Labor and Employment agud palaparon ang pinansyal sini nga bulig para sa mga minimum wage workers nga naapektuhan sang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong.
Suno kay Acting Budget Secretary Rolando Toledo nga may ara sang gin-allocate nga P21.3 bilyon para sa TUPAD program sang DOLE, apang ini para lamang sa mga displaced, under-employed, kag seasonal workers.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Malacañang nga ila pagatun-an ang ginapanawagan sang publiko nga dapat mahatagan ang mga ini sang pinansyal nga bulig, indi lamang ang mga minimum wage earners kundi pati man ang middle class kag mga empleyado sang gobyerno nga naapektuhan sang oil crisis bangud sa tensyon sa Middle East.
Ginapanawagan man sang pila ka labor groups sa gobyerno nga hatagan sila sang monthly subsidy para sa masobra 5 milyon nga mga minimum wage earners sa pungsod.
Magluwas sa contingency fund, mahimo man gamiton sang Department of Budget and Management ang National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Fund para pondohan ang iban pa nga mga programa sang gobyerno ilabi na nga madamo sa subong ang nagakinahanglan sang bulig.
Imee, nagpanawagan sa SSS, GSIS, Pag-IBIG, kag PhilHealth nga i-suspend anay ang contributions
Nagpanawagan si Senator Imee Marcos sa pila ka mga ahensya sang gobyerno nga temporaryo nga i-suspinde ang pagpanukot sang contributions kag loan payments kasunod sang deklarasyon sang presidente nga may yara sang state of national energy emergency.
Suno kay Marcos, daku nga palas-anon para sa mga Pilipino ang pagsaka sa presyo sang gasolina kag krudo, gani nga mas maayo nga hatagan sila sang bisan isa lang ka bulan nga pahuway sa sini nga mga sulukton.
Suno pa sa senadora, napamatud-an na nga epektibo ang amo nga tikang sang nag-agi anay ang COVID-19 pandemic kag ang iban pa nga kalamidad.
‘Wag muna nating kaltasan ang kanilang sahod.
Ibigay muna ito nang buo upang kahit paano ay makasabay sila sa walang tigil na pagtaas ng presyo ng bilihin,” pahayag pa sini.
Matandaan nga sang Martes sang gindeklarar ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Ginmandu man ang adoption sang Unified Package for Livelihoods, Industry, Food, and Transport (UPLIFT) para sa mga apektado nga mga sector.
Ini nga tikang ang kasunod sang nagatimbuok nga presyo sang gatong kag mga balaklon nga resulta na sang gyera sa tunga sang US, Israel, kag Iran nga nag-umpisa sang Pebrero 28.#
FRESH RECORD LOW: Philippine peso, nagsarurot pa sa 60.55:$1
Nagsarurot pa ang balor sang Philippine peso sa panibag-o nga all-time low sa pagtakop sang trading subong nga hapon, Marso 27.
Naglab-ot na sa P60.55 ang baylo sang isa ka US Dollar.
Ini na ang pang-anum nga tion subong nga bulan nga nakadangat sa record low ang local currency.
Ginalantaw nga mas mabudlayan ang Pilipinas bangud kun magluya ang peso, mas magamahal ang pagbakal sang langis bangud dolyar ang ginagamit sa purchase.
Gina-import sang Pilipinas ang masobra 90% sang langis.
Kun magtaas ini, ginalantaw man nga magadasig pa ang inflation, gani nga nabutang man sa mabudlay nga sitwasyon ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kaangot sa interest rate hikes.
Una na nga nagpaandam ang head sang International Energy Agency nga ang krisis nga nag-umpisa sa gyera sang US, Israel, kag Iran ang maghimo maglapaw pa sa combined shock sang 1970s oil crises kag disruption dala sang 2022 invasion sang Russia sa Ukraine.
Gintawag sang economic think tank nga IBON Foundation nga double whammy ukon duha ka dungan nga negatibo nga event ang pagsarurot sang balor sang Philippine peso kag ang pag-surge sang global oil prices.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay IBON Foundation Executive Director Sonny Africa, iya ginpahayag nga ini nga duha ka bagay ang ginalantaw nga magapa-doble sang inflation sa masunod nga binulan nga maga-igu gid sa pigado nga mga pumuluyo.
Ginapahayag nga may maka-benepisyo sang pagluya sang peso kaangay sang mga pamilya sang overseas Filipino workers nga sa inisyal nga pagtulok amo ang makakuha sang dugang nga pesos sa kada dollar nga ginapadala sang ila pamilya abroad.
Apang suno sa research group, bisan magsaka ang remittances sa peso terms, ma-offset gihapon ini sang mataas man nga domestic prices.
Diri na kag ginaduso sang grupo nga dapat nga may insigida nga tikang sang gobyerno, magpatunga na agud nga maproteksyunan ang purchasing power, suportahan ang palangabuhian, hagan-haganon ang inflationary pressures, kag indi dapat magpakuno-kuno nga normal lang ang tanan subong.#
425 gas stations sa Pilipinas, nag-untat na
Naglab-ot na sa 425 gas stations ang nag-untat sa ila negosyo bangud sa nagapadayun nga pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo suno sa Philippine National Police subong nga Marso 27, 2026.
Ini matapos nga wala pa sa gihapon natapos ang tensyon sa Middle East sa tunga sang United States of America, Israel kag Iran.
Ginpakigbahin ni PNP Spokesperson Police Brigadier General Randulf Tuaño nga yara lamang sa 387 ang numero sang nagsirado nga mga gasolinahan kahapon nga adlaw, apang nadugangan ini subong sang 38 gasoline stations.
Suno kay Tuaño, pila diri ang ginreklamo sa mga awtoridad bangud sa hoarding, profiteering, overpricing, trademark violation,kag unfair competition.
Sa subong, padayun pa nga nagamonitor ang mga awtoridad ilabi na ang Department of Energy (DOE) nahanungod sa mga presyo kag supply sang mga petroleum products.
Marcoleta: ‘P3B, ginakita sang mga oil companies kada adlaw’
Indi magnubo sa P3 bilyon ang ginakita sang mga oil companies kada adlaw humalin sang naglupok ang krisis sa Middle East.
Rodante Marcoleta may kaangtanan sa pagtimbuok sang presyo sang langis.
Suno kay Marcoleta, sa sulod lang sang duwa ka semana, lapaw na sa 120 porsiyento ang ginsaka sang litro sang diesel kag gasolina.
Base naman sa report sang Department of Energy, 32.5 milyon litro sang diesel kag 23.3 milyon litro sang gasolina ang daily consumption sang Pilipinas.
Pahayag ni Marcoleta, kun sumahon, yara sa P2.32 bilyon kada adlaw ang gross income sang oil companies.
Ginabanta nga 4,521,000 barrel sang gasoline ang makonsumo sang pungsod kada bulan.
Dugang ni Marcoleta nga kun tingubon ang diesel kag gasolina, nagalab-ot sa P3 bilyon ang gross income sa isa ka adlaw sang mga oil companies.
Suplay sang langis, tubtob na lang sa Abril
Ginkumpirma sang mga kompaniya sang langis nga tubtob sa Abril na lamang ang ila nga suplay.
Ini may kaangtanan sa nagapadayon nga kinagamo sa Middle East.
Suno kay Tanya Samillano, presidente sang Independent Philippine Petroleum Companies Association (IPPCA), tubtob sa Abril lang ang fuel deliveries para sa ila nga miyembro nga nagalakip sang Eastern Petroleum, FilOil, Flying V, LiquiGaz, SeaOil, kag UniOil.
Sa subong, suno kay Samillano, wala pa sang kasiguruhan kun may magasunod nga deliveries sa Mayo.
Private Car nga nagpa-full tank, nagpalagyo nga wala nakabayad sa gasolinahan
Nakuha sa CCTV footage ang isa ka pribado nga salakyan nga nagpalagyo matapos nga nagpatughong sang krudo sa isa ka gasoline station sa Quezon City.
Suno sa pump attendant, namangkot anay ang driver sang nasambit nga salakyan kun may ara pa sang diesel ang gasolinahan antes nga ini nga nagpatughong kag nagpalagyo.
Gintinguhaan pa nga lagson sang attendant ang driver paagi sa pagsakay sang motor, apang wala na sini makit-an ang naglagyo nga indibidwal.
Nahibaluan nga naglab-ot sa P5,196.45 ang balor sang diesel ang wala ginbayran sang driver.
Sa subong, gina-imbestigaran pa sang mga awtoridad ang nagluntad nga insidente.
Presyo sang kada tangke sang LPG, posible magtimbuok sa P1,500 sa Abril —LPGMA
Ginklaro sang LPG Marketers Association sa publiko nga wala nila ginalantaw nga kulangon ang suplay sang liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) sa pungsod sa masunod nga mga binulan, apang may ginaantisipar lang nga pagpanglakaak sa presyo.
Ini apisar sang nauna nga estimate sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga magalawig na lang sang 24 ka adlaw ang suplay sang LPG as of March 20.
Suno naman kay Arnel Ty, founder sang LPGMA, sa ila updated data, gina-project nga makalawig pa sang 35 tubtub 45 ka adlaw ang suplay nga may improvement ipaanggid sa data nga ginpresentar sang ahensya.
Pahayag pa sini, ginmanduan ang industriya nga mag-procure sang available nga LPG supply sa market kasunod sang ila meeting kay Energy Secretary Sharon Garin.
Wala sang ginaantisipar nga shortage suno kay Ty bangud padayon man ang pagbakal sang pribado nga sektor kag naga-umpisa naman ang government-to-government sourcing arrangements.
Apang kun may malain man nga balita, ini amo ang pagpanglakaak sang presyo bangud sang pagsaka man sang shipping costs.
Ginalantaw sang grupo nga magalab-ot sa P1,400 tubtub P1,500 ang presyo sang kada tangke sa Abril.
Ginbasehan sang grupo ang nagsaka man nga balayran sa barko bangud sa paglain sang mga ruta sa Middle East bangud sang gyera, rason nga nagalayo ang alagyan via United States, Africa, Canada, kag Australia.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang DOE sa Senate hearing nga hugot ang ila monitoring sa LPG.
Lakip sa ila ginahimo amo ang paglibot sa mga restaurant kag beverages agud nga maabisuhan sila nga mapahagan-hagan anay ang paggamit ukon konsumo tubtub nga mag-abot ang dugang nga mga suplay.
Committee on Justice, nag-isyu sang subpoena sa NBI agud makuha ang mga rekord sang pagpamahog ni VP Duterte kay PBBM
Nagpagwa sang subpoena ang House Committee on Justice sa National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) agud makuha ang mga rekord nga may kahilabtanan sa ginpahayag nga pagpamahog ni Vice President Sara Duterte kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., First Lady Liza Araneta-Marcos, kag sa anay Speaker Ferdinand Martin G.
Ginpangunahan ini ni Justice panel chairman kag Batangas Rep.
Gerville “Jinky Bitrics” Luistro kasunod sang pormal nga pagsugod sang hearing sa mga impeachment complaints batok kay Duterte.
Ang tuyo sang amo nga hearing amo ang paghibalo kun may yara sang nagakaigo nga basehan agud pasakaon ang kaso sa Senado para sa trial.
Ginplastar ni Luistro ang mosyon sa komite kag gin-aprubahan ini nga wala sang pagpamatok.
Ginamanduan sang subpoena ang NBI nga ipasa ang mga sertipikado nga kopya sang tanan nga materyales halin sa ila nga imbestigasyon, nga repasuhon sang mga mamalidha bilang kabahin sang pagtipon sang ebidensya.
Nauna na nga gintumod sang komite nga sufficient in form kag substance ang duha ka reklamo nga impeachment batok kay Duterte, kag gintugutan sini nga magpadayon ang hearing bisan panahon yara sa recess ang Kongreso.
Sa karon, ginatutukan pa lang sang komite kun may ara ini sang probable cause, samtang ang Senado amo ang magaserbi bilang impeachment court kon padayunon ang trial.
PBBM, ginpirmahan na ang layi nga nagahatag sang awtoridad sa iya nga magsuspende sang excise tax sa mga gatong
ang layi nga magahatag sang awtoridad kag gahom sa iya nga magsuspende ukon magbuhin sang excise tax sa mga produktong petrolyo.
Ini bangud sa nagapadayon nga kabudlayan nga na-eksperyensyahan sang pungsod sa pagasaka sang presyo sang gatong bangud sa gyera nga nagakatabo sa Middle Esat.
12316, may ara sang gahom ang Presidente nga magsuspinde ukon magpabuhin sang excise tax sa krudo, base sa rekomendasyon sang Development Budget Coordination Committee (DBCC) kag sa pag-coordinate man sa tagpamaba sang Department of Energy.
Nakasulat man sa layi nga ang ano man nga pagsuspinde ukon pagbuhin sini mangin epektibo lamang tubtob sa tatlo ka bulan, kag indi dapat magsobra sa isa ka tuig.
Grupo sang mga manugpangisda, nagawangal sa kulang kag atrasado nga ayuda
Ini ang paglaragway sang fisherfolk group sa ginpasalig sang gobyerno nga fuel subsidies para sa mga manugpangisda sa tunga sang nagatimbuok nga presyo sang gatong nga naga-apekto man sa ila nga operasyon kag palangabuhian.
Suno kay Fernando Hicap, national chairperson sang PAMALAKAYA, madamo pa sa ila ang wala pa gihapon nakabaton sang ayuda apisar nga manug-apat na ka semana ang gyera kag apat ka semana naman nga may nagapanglakaak nga oil price hikes.
“Yung pangako nila na tatlong libo, actually sabi nila 2025 budget pa ‘to no doon sa fuel subsidy hanggang ngayon wala pa… halos tatlong linggo na itong sumirit yung presyo ng gasolina na halos doble na yung gastos ng mangingisda kaya napakabagal at wala pa talagang natatanggap yung mga mangingisda,” suno kay Hicap.
Sa data sang gobyerno, 14,000-15,000 lamang ang covered sang ayuda, apisar nga masobra 300,000 ang rehistrado nga municipal fishers.
Bangud sang mataas nga presyo sang gatong suno sa grupo, madamo sa manugpangisda ang wala na nagakadto sa dagat bangud indi na masarangan ang operating costs.
Magluwas diri, napilitan man ang iban suno sa iya nga mag-share na lang sa sakayan, ukon duha tubtub tatlo ukon tag-lima pa gid ka tawo sa kada bangka rason nga mas gamay man ang ila nga income.
“Bago pa man tumaas ‘to… nasa 80% na ang total na gastos namin napupunta sa gasolina… kaya ngayon yung iba hindi na kayang makapangisda, nakikisama na lang sa may kapasidad,” dugang ni Hicap.
Ginasulit sang grupo ang panawagan nga dasigon man kag mangin inclusive sa pagpanagtag sang ayuda nga labi nila nga kinahanglan.#
ang state of national energy emergency sa Pilipinas apisar sang una nga panindugan sang Malacañang nga wala pa sang oil crisis diri sa pungsod.
Natabo man ang pagpirma sang presidente sa executive order samtang ginalantaw nga magatimbuok sa P130 ang presyo sang diesel kada litro subong nga semana, samtang magalapaw naman sa P100 kada litro ang presyo sang gasolina.
Ginpagwa kagab-i, Marso 24, ang Executive Order 110 kun sa diin ginmandu man ni Marcos ang pag-adoptar sang whole-of-government approach.
Ini agud nga mapahagan-hagan ang palas-anon sang apektado nga mga sector sa idalom sang Unified Package for Livelihoods, Industry, Food and Transport ukon UPLIFT.
Ini ang una nga tion nga gingamit sang presidente ang amo nga awtoridad agud nga maka-responde sa oil supply disruptions.
Nakabutang ini sa Republic Act 7638 nga amo man ang nagahatag sang awtoridad sa President nga mag-deklarar sang critically low ener­gy supply kag magpatuman sang energy allocation.
Sa executive order ni Marcos, ginsiling sini nga ang gyera sang Estados Unidos kag Israel sa Iran nga nagtulod sa pagsirado sa Strait of Hormuz amo ang nag-trigger sang wala kasiguraduhan nga sitwasyon sa kalibutan.
Lakip sa apektado amo ang global energy markets kag may yara man sang malala nga disruption sa supply chains, may pagsaka man sa international oil prices, gani nga may nadala man nga threat ukon pamahog sa energy security sang pungsod.
Ginpahayag ni Marcos nga bangud net importer sang langis ang Pilipinas, mahuyang gid ini sa disruptions sa global oil production pati na sa transporasyon sang sini nga produkto.
Si Marcos ang magapanguna bilang chairperson sang UPLIFT kag updan siya sang tiglikom sang Department sang energy, transportation, social welfare, agriculture, finance, kag budget and economy, planning and development.
Lakip sa himuon sang UPLIFT amo ang pag-monitor kag pagsiguro nga may yara sang tayuyon kag talunsay nga hulag, suplay, distribusyon, kag availability sang gatong, pagkaon, bulong, produktong pang-agrikultura, kag iban pa nga nagapanguna nga kinahanglanon.
Ini man ang magapasiguro nga may yara sang tayuyon nga operasyon sa public transportation, public services, public utilities, healthcare facilities, kag iban pa nga critical establishments and infrastructure.
Antes sini, nauna na nga nag-angkon sang kritisismo ang pahayag sang Palasyo nga wala man sang oil crisis sa Pilipinas, kundi “disruption” sa fuel prices.
“Ang sinasabi po natin na wala pa po, hindi dinideklara dahil may sapat na supply pa sa ngayon.
Ang nagkakaroon lang ng isyu ay ang sa presyo,” paathag ni Communications Undersecretary Claire Castro matapos ginpakamalaot ang iya nauna nga statement nga wala sang krisis.
“Wala pa po tayong tawagin na oil crisis sa bansa.
Sa ngayon hindi pa natin masabi dahil pinagsusumikapan ng gobyerno na walang patid ang supply sa atin,” dugang sini.#
Patigayunon subong nga adlaw, Marso 25, ang una nga hearing sang Kamara kaangot sa impeachment complaints nga ginpasaka batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Apang base sa kampo sang bise-presidente, indi ini magtambong sa amo nga hearing.
Gerville Luistro, chairperson sang House committee on justice, nga kun indi magkadto si Duterte, mawad-an ini sang tyansa nga makumbinse ang mga kongresista nga wala sang probable cause ang mga impeachment complaints batok sa iya.
Suno kay Luistro, kun indi magtambong si Duterte, magapabilin nga “unchallenged” ukon indi masabat ang mga alegasyon batok sa iya, gani nga magaboto na lang ang mga committee members pabor sa pahayag nga may yara sang probable cause.
Ginlaragway sang committee chair ini nga stage nga pareho sa preliminary investigation phase sa isa ka criminal complaint.
Hatagan ang complainants kag ang defense sang tyansa nga magpresentar sang ila tagsa ka documentary evidence kag mga testigo.
Iresolba anay sang House justice panel ang mga mosyon nga nagatuyo nga i-subpoena ukon i-compel ang pag-abot sang mga testigo kag production sang documents nga ginakonsiderar nga material evidence sa complaints.
Magluwas sa hearing subong nga adlaw, may naka-schedule man sa Abril 14, 22, kag 29.
NEW ALL-TIME LOW: Baylo sang PH peso vs US dollar, mas nagluya pa
Ginalantaw nga mas magabudlay ang energy situation sa Pilipinas bangud sang padayon nga pagsarurot ang balor sang Philippine peso batok sa US Dollar.
Panibag-o nga record low ang narekord kahapon samtang padayon ang krisis sa Middle East.
Nagsirado ang trading nga P60.30 ang baylo sang US dollar nga mas manubo pa sa nauna na-record nga P60.10 sang Huwebes.
Sa kabug-usan subong nga bulan, masobra na sa 4% ang ginpierde sang peso.
Una na nga nagpaandam ang head sang International Energy Agency nga ang krisis nga nag-umpisa sa gyera sang US, Israel, kag Iran ang maghimo maglapaw pa sa combined shock sang 1970s oil crises kag disruption dala sang 2022 invasion sang Russia sa Ukraine.#
OFW sa Arad, Israel, nasamaran sa missile attack sang Iran
Nasamaran ang isa ka overseas Filipino worker (OFW) kasunod sang missile attack sa Arad, Israel sang tinalikdan nga Marso 21.
Suno sa Philippine Embassy sa Israel, gilayon nga gindala ang 30-anyos nga biktima sa Soroka Medical Center agud nga hatagan sang nagakaigu nga pagbulong.
Padayun man nga naga-monitor ang embahada sa nasambit nga pungsod agud nga mahatagan sang bulig ang iban pa nga mga apektado nga mga Pilipino sa nagapadayun nga tension sa Middle East.
Matandaan nga wala na-intercept sang air defense sang Israel ang duha ka ballistic missiles sang weekend rason nga may mga nasamaran.
Isa sa missile strikes sang Iran ang nag-igo sa isa ka multi-story apartment block sa syudad sang Arad.
Kabahin ini sang balos sang Iran matapos nga gin-atake sila sang US kag Israel sang Pebrero 28 nga amo ang nagpatay kay anay Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei kag iban pa nga senior officials.
Bam Aquino, gin-rekomendar ang pagdeklarar sang state national emergency bangud sa epekto sang pagsaka sang gatong sa pungsod
Ginrekomendar ni Senator Bam Aquino ang pagdeklarar sang state of national emergency bangud sa epekto sang pagsaka sang produktong petrolyo sa pungsod.
Suno sa senador, madamo na nga pamilya nga Pilipino ang naga-eksperyensya sang mabug-at nga epekto sang pagsaka sang presyo sang gasolina kag diesel, gani kinahanglan na nga padalion sang gobyerno ang mga tikang nga gina-implementar sini.
Lakip sa iya suhestyon ang pagpatuman sang price ceiling sa mga nagapanguna nga balaklon, madali nga pagpanagtag sang bulig nga ginpa-in sa 2026 budget para sa mga transport worker.
Dugang pa sang Senador nga kinahanglan man sang bulig kag suporta sang mga micro, small and medium enterprises sa sini nga tinion agud malikawan ang pagsara sang mga negosyo nga ila ginakuhaan sang matag-adlaw nga kinahanglon gani nga kinahanglan nga buligan ang mga ini.
Malacañang, nanindugan nga wala pa sang oil crisis sa Pilipinas
Nanindugan ang Malacañang nga wala pa nagapangatubang sang oil crisis ang Pilipinas.
Ini sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga kinagamo sa Middle East nga nagresulta sa pagtaas sang presyo sang produktong petroylo.
Claire Castro, padayon ang paghulag sang gobyerno agud masiguro nga bastante ang suplay sang produktong petrolyo sa pungsod.
Pahayag ni Castro nga base sa pahayag ni DOE Secretary Sharon Garin, may yara sang negosasyon tuhoy sa 440,000 barrels sang fuel.
Dugang niya, may yara man sang 600,000 barrels nga mahimo pa nga ma-import sa masunod.
Gin-athag man ni Castro nga ang pahayag ni Presidente Marcos tuhoy sa oil crisis ang nagapatuhoy sa Middle East.
Ginainsister man sang Palace Press Office nga indi man mapaktan kun san-o makonsiderar nga may krisis gid man sa langis bangud padayon ang pagtinguha sang gobyerno agud masiguro ang bastante nga suplay.
Ini nga pahayag ni Castro ang sa tunga sang padayon nga pagtimbuok sang preso sang gatong sa Pilipinas.
Limited use sang lower-grade fuel, ginpasugtan sa Pilipinas
Ini agud masigurado anay ang fuel supply subong sa pungsod samtang nga magamo pa ang sitwasyon sa Middle East kag nagapanglakaak ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa global market.
Ginpaguwa sang ahensya ang Department Circular No.
DC2026-03-0010 nga amo ang nagatugot sang interim and controlled introduction sang Euro II fuels para sa pili lang nga transport and industrial uses.
Suno kay Energy Secretary Sharon Garin, temporaryo lamang ini nga tikang sang gobyerno.
Ang paggamit sang Euro II fuels limitahan lamang sa in-use vehicle models halin sa 2015 ukon mas temprano pa, traditional jeepneys, industrial applications kaangay sang power plants kag generators, kag marine and shipping operations.
Agud wala sang misuse, gina-require sa mga kumpaniya sang langis nga istrikto nga iseparar ang Euro II kag Euro IV fuels sa tanan nga storage, transport, kag retail systems.
Dapat man ipahibalo sa ahensya kun ano nga gas stations ang magabaligya sang lower-grade fuel.
Dry season sa Pilipinas, maga-umpisa na subong nga semana
Gin-anunsyo sang Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) nga maga-umpisa na ang dry season subong nga semana.
Ini nga mainit nga tyempo ang dala sang easterlies ukon hangin nga nagahuyop halin sa nasidlangan pakadto sa nakatundan.
Kun may pagpanalithi man nga magtupa, isolated lang ini suno sa weather bureau bangud wala sang low pressure areas nga gina-monitor subong sa sulod sang Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR).
Ginapahanumdom sang ahensya sa publiko nga likawan ang pagtinir sa gwa sa peak hours bangud nakit-an nga nagataas na ang heat index nga na-rekord halin sang naglinigad nga mga semana.
As of press time, natalana pa lang nga pormal nga i-anunsyo sang ahensya ang pagtapos sang northeast monsoon ukon amihan season.#
Pagsaka sang power rates, posible mag-umpisa sa Abril —ERC
Posible nga mangin epektibo na masunod nga bulan ang pagsaka sa balayran sa kuryente bangud sang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East kag bangud sa padayon nga pagluya sang balor sang Philippine Peso batok sa US Dollar.
Suno kay Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) Chairperson Francis Saturnino Juan, maga-reflect ini sa bills sa Abril bilang epekto na sa presyo sang suplay sa generation companies, distribution utilities, kag mga retailer.
Sa subong, wala pa natumod sang komisyon kun pila eksakto ang ipasaka sa power rates.
Kun ibase sa additional cost suno sa asosasyon, posible nga may dugang sa electricity rate nga P2 tubtub P4, apang i-cover lamang sini ang supply nga ginhatag sang Wholesale Electricity Spot Market (WESM).
Ang dugang nga dos pesos ang katumbas sang P400 nga dugang nga payment para sa mga balay nga may konsumo nga 200 kilowatt hours.
Ginklaro man sang ERC nga naghatag ini sang direktiba sa electric utilities kag generation suppliers nga magpanukot kag magpasaka sang charges sa staggered basis ukon utay-utay ukon pahat-pahat lamang agud indi man matam-an ang mga konsumidor sang kuryente.
Malacañang, nagapanawagan sa publiko sang “pag-intindi kag pagsalig” sa gobyerno
Nagapanawagan ang Malacañang sa publiko sang “pag-intindi kag pagsalig” sa gobyerno.
Ini sa tunga sang ginapatigayon nga mga tikang para buligan ang sektor sang transportasyon bangud sang nagapanglakaak nga presyo sang gatong.
Kasunod man ini sang nationwide nga transport strike sang Pagkakaisa ng mga Samahan ng Tsuper at Opereytor Nationwide (PISTON) bangud sa padayon nga pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Claire Castro, importante ang pagbinuligay kag kooperasyon sa sini nga tyempo agud matagaan sang nagakaigo nga solusyon ang epekto sang krisis sa Middle East nga nagakaapekto man sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Dugang sini, ginatinguhaan sang gobyerno ang paghatag man sang patas nga bulig para sa mga drivers kag amo man sa commuter paagi sa pinansyal nga bulig kag fuel subsidy.
VP Sara Duterte, nabaton na ang imbitasyon sang House Committee on Justice nga magtambong sa impeachment hearing sa masunod nga Mierkules, Marso 25
Nabaton na ni Vice President Sara Duterte ang imbitasyon sang House Committee on Justice nga magtambong sa impeachment hearing sa masunod nga Mierkules, Marso 25.
Gerville Luistro, may ara sang patigayunon nga regular meeting ang panel nga maga-umpisa sang alas 10 sa aga.
Ginpangabay man sang Committee nga magtambong si Duterte sang personal bilang respondent sa impeachment complaints nga gin-file nanday Reverend Father Joel Saballa kag Atty.
Mahimo i-coordinate ni Duterte sa secretariat sang Committee ang kumpirmasyon sang iya pagtambong.
Nahibaluan nga duha sa apat ka reklamo ang nagapabilin sa hurisdiksyon sang Committee on Justice, samtang ang isa gin-set aside bangud sa nalapas nga one-year bar rule kag ang isa gin-withdraw sang nag-file sini.
Sa Marso 25, nakatalana ang procedural framework sang impeachment proceedings kag opisyal nga pagbukas sang diskusyon sa mga reklamo batok kay Duterte.
Nahibaluan nga ang mga alegasyon sa impeachment complaints batok kay Duterte nagalakip sang betrayal of public trust, pagpanuhol sini, graft and corruption, lakip na ang ginaalegar nga misuse sang P612 milyon nga confidential funds.
PBBM, nagmando nga padasigon ang pag-release sang P21.47 bilyon nga pondo para sa fuel subsidy
nga padasigon ang pag-release sang P21.47 bilyon nga pondo sang gobyerno para sa fuel subsidy.
Suno sa Department of Budget and Management, P2.49 bilyon ang kabug-osan nga pondo ang gin-allocate sa Department of Transportation (DOTr) para sa Fuel Subsidy Program.
Ini agud maghatag sang direkta nga bulig sa mga driver kag operator nga nagaantos sa pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong.
Suno sa ahensya, ang subsidiya may katuyoan nga buligan ang mga driver nga makapadayon sa ila operasyon nga indi na kinahanglan ipasa ang dugang nga gasto sa mga pasahero kag agud mapabilin man nga barato ang plete sa pampubliko nga transportasyon.
Sa matandaan nga una na nga ginmanduan ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
ang ahensya sa plano nga fare hike sa pampubliko nga transportasyon.
Suno sa Presidente, indi pa ini ang insakto nga tion sa pagpatuman sang fare hike bangud sa epekto sang padayon nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Pila ka food firms, nagpasugot sa tubtub duha ka bulan nga price freeze —Marcos
Nagpasugot ang pila ka food manufacturers nga magpatuman sang price freeze tubtub sa duha ka bulan.
subong nga adlaw, Marso 20, kasunod sang koordinasyon sa industry players.
Kadungan ini sang iya pagbisita sa pasilidad sang Century Pacific Food Inc.
sa Calamba, Laguna kun sa diin gin-check sini ang food supply kag pricing conditions.
Ang iya ginbisita amo ang isa sa pinakadaku nga branded food companies sa Pilipinas nga may mga produkto nga nagalakip sang canned tuna, sardinas, meat, dairy, kag plant-based alternatives.
Suno pa sa punong ehekutibo, nagapakig-angot ang gobyerno sa suppliers agud masigurado nga may bastante nga basic goods.
Suno naman kay Trade Secretary Cristina Roque, sa ginpatigayon nga mga inspeksyon sa groceries kag manufacturing plants, nakit-an nga makalawig pa sang isa ka bulan ang current food supply ilabi na ang basic necessities kag prime commodities nga yara sa idalom sang government monitoring.
Wala pa ang na-report suno sa tiglikom nga mga kaso sang hoarding ukon profiteering.#
Billionaire Wealth Tax, isa sa mga solusyon sa krisis sang gatong
Isa sa mga ginalantaw nga mangin dako nga bulig sa krisis nga ginpangatubang subong sang Pilipinas amo ang pagduso sang Billionaire Wealth Tax sa masobra 3,000 ka mga bilyonaryo sa pungsod.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Sonny Africa, Executive Director sang IBON Foundation, iya ginpahayag nga ini amo ang labing epektibo nga solusyon agud nga indi na mabudlayan ang publiko sa padayun nga pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong.
Apang suno man sa iya, may ara lang sang pagpanghangkat nga ila pagatubangon kun liwat nga iduso ang tax nga para kun tani sa mga bilyonaryo.
Ini bangud nga pila sa mga mamalidha ang kabahin sang kamara kag senado nga dako gid ang posibilidad nga indi sila magpahanugot sa sa nasambit nga plano.
Ginpakigbahin man ni Africa ang iya pagkadismaya sa pagduha-duha ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., sa pagsuspende sang excise tax sa mga produktong petrolyo bisan pa nga tuman na ang epekto sini sa pungsod.
Suno sa iya, kinahanglan nga masolusyunan na ini bangud posible pa nga magsaka ang mga presyo sang produkto indi lang sa gatong kun indi sa mga nagapanguna man nga mga kinahanglanon sa sulod sang balay.
Dugang pa ni Africa, mas mangin madamo nga mga Pilipino ang magasuprer sa ka-imolon, kun wala sang insakto nga solusyon nga igahatag ang gobyerno.
Hontiveros, nagpangayo sang clarification sa DBM
Ginpakigbahin ni Senate Deputy Majority Leader Risa Hontiveros nga nagpanawagan sya sa Department of Budget and Management (DBM) sang klaripikasyon kun ano nga mga tikang ang pagaubrahun sang ahensya agud nga maayo kag insakto nga mapanagtag sa mga drivers kag transport sector ang gin-alokar sang gobyerno nga P30-billion cash aid para sa ila.
Suno kay Hontiveros, dako gid ang epekto sang pagtaas sang gatong sa mga drivers, ilabi na nga ginsuspende pa ang P1 tubtob P2 fare hike sa Pampubliko nga mga salakyan.
Ginpahayag man sang senador nga indi na dapat paghulaton sang gobyerno nga maparalisa ukon mag-untat nalang ang mga drivers sa pungsod bangud sa padayun nga nagasaka nga presyo sang gatong.
Madumduman nga ipaagi sang gobyerno sa programa sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) nga Assistance to Individuals in Crisis Situation (AICS) ang P5,000 nga fuel subsidy sa mga PUV drivers.
VP Sara, nagpanawagan sang World Peace kadungan sang Eid’l Fitr
Nagpanawagan si Vice President Sara Duterte sang world peace kadungan sang selebrasyon sang Eid’l Fitr.
Sa iya mensahe subong nga adlaw, ginpalab-ot sini ang iya panamyaw sa mga Filipino Muslims, mga Overseas Filipino Workers sa Middle East kag Muslims sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Suno kay Duterte, ginakilala gid niya ang sakripisyo, disiplina kag debosyon sang mga Muslim sa ila tradisyon lakip na ang ila pagpu-asa sa sulod sang isa ka bulan.
Kabahin sang iya mensahe amo ang pangamuyo para sa kahilwayan sang bilog nga kalibutan ilabi na subong, nga nagapdayun pa sa gihapon ang tension sa Middle East nga amo ang rehiyon nga isa sa may pinakadako nga Muslim community.
Madumduman nga gin-anunsyo sang Bangsamoro Grand Mufti nga iselebrar bwas nga adlaw, Marso 21, ang Eid’l Fitr.
Ini matapos ang ginpatigayon nga moon sighting activities sa Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao kag sa iban pa nga designated areas sa Pilipinas kun sa diin wala sang crescent moon nga nakit-an kagab-i nga importante gid nga simbolo sa mga muslims agud nga matumod kun san-o magasugod ang bag-o nga bulan para sa ila.
Agricultural goods sa Pilipinas, bastante pa bisan may tensyon sa Middle East —DA
Ginsigurado sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga may bastante pa nga suplay sang agricultural products sa Pilipinas nga makalawig pa sang tubtub 90 ka adlaw.
Ini apisar sang nagapadayon nga tensyon sa Middle East kag padayon nga nagasaka nga presyo sang gatong.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu-Laurel Jr., wala sang isyu nga naga-apekto sa availability sang nagapanguna nga mga produkto lakip na ang bugas.
Ginalantaw man nga mangin estable ang suplay tubtub sa Hunyo.
Wala man sang problema sa suplay sa mais, kalamay, kag sibuyas.
Nagapadayon ang vegetable production suno sa tiglikom bangud sa current planting and harvesting season, samtang bastante man ang pork supply nga pareho nga may local production kag imported stocks sa cold storage facilities sa pungsod.#
Selebrasyon sang Eid’ Fitr, bwas pa, Marso 21
Gin-anunsyo sang Bangsamoro Grand Mufti nga bwas pa, Marso 21, ang obserbasyon sang mga Muslim sa Pilipinas sang Eid’l Fitr.
Suno ini kay Sheikh Abdulrauf Guialani matapos ang ginpatigayon nga moon sighting activities sa Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao kag sa iban pa nga designated areas sa pungsod.
Importante nga makit-an ang moon crescent agud nga matumod kun san-o magasugod ang bag-o nga bulan para sa mga Muslim.
Buot silingon sini, magapuasa sang isa pa ka adlaw ang mga Pilipino nga Muslim agud nga makumpleto ang 30 ka adlaw nga Ramadan antes maselebrar ang Eid’l Fit’r buwas, Marso 21.
Sa pihak sini, magapabilin nga isa ka regular holiday ang Marso 20 ukon subong nga adlaw sandig sa nauna nga deklarasyon sang Malacañang.
Ang Eid’l Fitr amo ang una nga adlaw sang Shawwal nga amo ang ika-10 nga bulan sa Islamic Calendar nga ginatawag nga “Hijri.”
Ini ang nagamarka sang pagtapos sang isa ka bulan nga pagpuasa sang mga Muslim kadungan sang Ramadan.
Sa kada Eid’l Fitr, tradisyonal nga nagaselebrar ang mga Muslim sa tatlo ka adlaw nga naga-umpisa paagi sa pagpangamuyo sa mga mosque sa kaagahon, nagatipon ang mga pamilya kag mag-abyan, nagasaluhay, kag nagabayluhanay sang regalo.
Tubtub 300,000 barrels sang krudo, magaabot sa Pilipinas sa masunod nga semana
Ginkumpirma sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga magaabot na sa masunod nga semana ang 250,000 tubtub 300,000 barrels sang krudo nga gin-order sang Pilipinas.
Wala ginsapubliko sang ahensya kun diin ini halin, apang ginkumpirma nga halin ini sa isa ka pungsod sa Southeast Asia.
Suno kay Energy Secretary Sharon Garin, kabahin ini sang tikang sang gobyerno agud nga mabuligan ang pribado nga oil firms nga magbakal sang dugang nga suplay sang langis.
Padayon pa suno sa iya ang paninguha nga may kuhaan pa sang suplay paagi sa government-to-government transactions, apang ang maga-gasto amo ang pribado nga oil companies.
Ini nga amount ang makaigo lamang para sa duha ka adlaw, apang suno kay Garin, siguruhon nila nga ma-cover sang kabug-usan nga suplay (pati ang daan nga suplay) pati ang bilog nga Mayo.
Sandig sa nauna nga tatlo ka trading days sa world market, yari ang posible nga isaka sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana:
May nabilin pa nga duha ka trading days nga possible magbuhin, ukon posible magdugang sa price adjustments.
Pebrero 28 sang nag-umpisa ang gyera sa Middle East nga amo ang nag-apekto sa presyuhanay sang langis sa madamo nga parte sang kalibutan lakip na sa Southeast Asia.#
Magadiretso na sa hearing proper ang House Justice Committee matapos makitaan sang bastante nga basehan ang duha ka magkatuhay nga impeachment complaints batok kay VP Sara Duterte.
Sa pagtakop sang hearing sang komite sa duha ka reklamo kahapon,March 18, 2026, ginplastar na na ni committee chair, Rep.
Gerville Luistro ang mga petsa para sa mangin hearing.
Ini ginalakipan sang mga masunod nga petsa: March 25, 2026 April 14, 2026 April 22, 2026 April 29, 2026
Suno sa House panel, indi direkta nga ginsabat ni VP Sara ang mga alegasyon batok sa iya sa iya nga ”Answer Ad Cautelam,” nga gin-file bilang sabat sa mga reklamo.
Ang duha ka impeachment complaints ang nagaunod sang mga akusasyon sa Bise Presidente kaangay sang betrayal of public trust, culpable violation of the Constitution, kag iban pa.
Kaangot ini sa ginaalegar sala nga paggamit sang P612.5 million confidential funds kag pagpamahog sa kabuhi ni Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Suno kay House Deputy Minority Leader Leila de Lima, nga ang nangin sabat sang Bise Presidente ang wala nagasabat sa mga alegasyon.
Dugang pa ni de Lima nga wala man sang paathag si Duterte tuhoy sa malversation sang pondo, anomalous disbursements, ukon sa mga envelopes nga ginpanghatag sa pila ka opisyal sang Department of Education.
Bangud diri, mahimo na nga mapadayon sang komite ang impeachment hearing proper, kun sa diin talakayon kag busision ang mga ebidensya kag testimonya sang pareho nga complainants kag ni VP Sara.
Bag-o ang botohay, una na nga gin-athag ni House justice panel chair kag Batangas Second District Rep.
Gerville Luistro, nga mabug-at ang mga alegasyon kag nagakinahanglan sang konkreto nga sabat.
Rofus Rodriguez, dismayado sa nangin sabat ni VP Sara Duterte sa iya impeachment complaint
Dismayado si Cagayan de Oro 2nd District Rep.
Ini matapos nga gindeklarar sang House Committee on Justice nga “sufficient in grounds” ukon may bastante nga basehan ang duha ka impeachment complaints batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Rodriguez ang wala pagsabat sang kampo ni VP Sara sa mga grounds batok sa duha ka reklamo nga ginpasaka sa iya, apisar nga klaro nga dapat hatagan ini sang atensyon.
Suno sa mamalidha, may yara sang anum ka grounds sa ikatlo nga complaint kag lima naman ka grounds sa ikaapat nga reklamo.
Gindugang pa ni Rodriguez nga dapat kuntani, isa-isa nga ginsabat sang kampo ni VP Sara ang nasambit nga mga grounds, apang sang ginbasa na sini ang reply, nakibot na lang ini bangud wala sang nagakaigo nga sabat ang Bise Presidente sa mga alegasyon.
Nahibaluan nga ang mga impeachment complaints batok kay VP Sara Duterte nagikan sa alegasyon sang betrayal of public trust, culpable violation of the Constitution, kag iban pa.
Bato Dela Rosa, posible nga mabasura ang ethics complaint
Posible nga mabasura ang ethics complaint batok kay Sen.
Bato Dela Rosa bangud sa padayon sini nga pag-absent sa senado apisar nga may ara ini sang obligasyon bilang senador sang pungsod.
Ginpahayag ni Ethics Committee Chairman Senator JV Ejercito nga kinahanglan anay nga amyendahan ang Senate rules angut sa hingyo sa ethics complaint nga indi pagpaswelduhon si Dela Rosa.
Suno kay Ejercito nga wala sang provision sa rules sang Senate Committee on Ethics and Privileges nahanungod sa polisa nga “no work, no pay.”
Nahibaluan nga naglab-ot na sa apat ka bulan ang pag-absent ni Dela Rosa sa Senate plenary sessions kag committee hearings kasunod sang pag-tag sini sa iya bilang co-perpetrators nga gina-alegar kaangtanan sini sa kaso nga ginapangatubang ni Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Dugang pa ni Ejercito nga wala ginadepensahan sang senado ang kaangay nila nga upod nga senador sa ginapangatubang sini nga reklamo.
Suno pa sa iya nga sila man mismo nga kaangay nga senador ang nagadali man nga mapasar ang adoption of rules agud tanan sila ang makadesisyon.
Senate President Sotto III, ginaduso ang pagbasura sa Oil Deregulation Law
Ginaduso sa karon ni Senate President Vicente Sotto III ang dalayon nga pagbasura sa Oil Deregulation Law agud mabalik sa gobyerno ang gahom sa pagtalana kag pag-kontrol sa presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo sa pungsod.
Ini bangud sa padayon nga ginapangatubang nga problema sang Pilipinas sa gatong bangud man sa epekto sang tenyson sa Middle East.
Paagi sa gin-file sini nga Senate Bill No.
1984, tuyo ni Sotto nga pauntaton ang mga kompanya sang mga produktong petrolyo nga sila mismo ang nagapresyo sang gatong.
Suno sa mamalidha nga tyempo na agud magpasilabot ang Senado bangud direkta na ang epekto sang Krisis sagwa sang pungsod ilabi na sa bulsa sang mga ordinary nga mga Pilipino.
Sa idalom sang Republic Act 8479, nga kilala man bilang Downstream Oil Industry Deregulation Act of 1998, ginkua sang gobyerno ang control sini agud mangin competitive ang merkado pag-abot sa suplay kag presyo sang petrolyo.
Apang, nagpaandam si sotto nga bag-o mapasar ang nasambit nga layi, ang Energy Regulatory Board ang nagadesyon sang presyo sang petrolto base sa global oil cost kag exchange rates.
Magluwas diri, ang Oil price Stablization Fund ang nagasalo sa pabag-obag -o nga presyo sa global merake agud mabuhinan ang gilayon nga pagtaas sang pump prices
Suno kay Sotto, sang 2022 pa siya nag-file sang hagna agud repasuhon ang Downstream Oil Industry Deregulation Act of 1998 nga nagkakas sang gahum sang gobyerno nga kontrolon ang presyo sang petrolyo sa pungsod.
Nabaligya nga salakyan sa Pilipinas sa bulan sang Pebrero, nagnubo; baligyaanay sang electric vehicle, nagtaas
Nagnubo sang 8.5% ang baligya sang mga salakyan sa Pilipinas sa bulan sang Pebrero kun ipaanggid sang nagligad nga tuig.
kag Truck Manufacturers Association, naglab-ot sa 35,842 units ang nabaligya, mas manubo sa 39,164 units sang nagligad nga tuig.
Ginpahayag nga isa sa mga rason amo ang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong bangud sang tensyon sa Middle East.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagtaas naman ang baligya sang electric vehicles (EVs) sa 3,098 units sang Pebrero.
Suno sa industriya, padayon sila nga nagatanyag sang mas makinot sa gatong kag electric nga mga salakyan bilang alternatibo sa mga pumuluyo.
Nagakahulugan ini nga mahatagan na sang ligwa ang pag-umpisa sang hearing sa masunod nga semana.
Suno kay de Lima, wala man sang paathag si Duterte tuhoy sa malversation sang pondo, anomalous disbursements, ukon sa mga envelopes nga ginpanghatag sa pila ka opisyal sang Department of Education.
Dugang pa niya nga magasugod ang pormal nga hearing sa Marso 25, 2026.
Samtang, gin-aprubahan sang House of Representatives ang resolusyon nga magatugot sa komite nga padayunon ang impeachment hearings bisan yara sila sa recess.
Nasaad nga masuspinde ang mga sesyon sang Kamara kag Senado sa Marso 21 tubtob Mayo 3, 2026.
Pilipinas, magabakal sang 2 million barrels sang langis
Magabakal ang gobyerno sang Pilipinas sang 2 million barrels sang langis sa tunga sang nangin epekto sang gyera sa Middle East.
Suno kay Finance Secretary Frederick Go, nagapakig-istorya na ang Philippine National Oil Company Exploration Corporation (PNOC EC) sa nanuhay-tuhay nga suppliers kag ginalantaw nga may malab-ot na nga mga kasugtanan subong nga semana.
Makabulig ini suno kay Go agud nga wala na sang kahangaw-an nga magkulang pa ang suplay sa pungsod.
Ang 2 million barrels nga langis ang katumbas na sang 10 ka adlaw nga fuel stock.
Magadugang ini sa current oil supply stock sang Pilipinas nga makaigo pa sa masulusobra 50 ka adlaw.
Kun may dugang nga suplay, ginalantaw man nga magahagan-hagan ang presyo sang local nga langis.
Kadam-an sang suplay sang langis ang ginabakal sang Pilipinas sa South Korea, Japan, Singapore kag China.
Una naman nga ginkumpirma sang gobyerno nga nakapalapit naman ini sa Russia agud magnegosyar sa posible nga supply contract para sa oil export.
Matandaan nga ginpahayag ni Energy Secretary Sharon Garin kahapon nga may sufficient fuel inventory pa sa Pilipinas nga magalawig tubtub sa Abril.#
Aprubado na sang Senado sa third and final reading ang hagna nga nagahatag sang emergency powers kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
nga magsuspinde ukon magbuhin sang excise tax sa produktong petrolyo.
1982 matapos nakakuha sang 17 ka affirmative votes, wala sang negative votes, kag wala sang abstentions.
Sa idalom sini nga hagna, may gahum ang presidente nga mag-suspend ukon magbuhin sang excise tax pananglitan maglapaw na sa $80 per barrel ang presyo sang Dubai crude oil.
Sa interpellation, ginklaro naman sang nag-sponsor sang hagna nga si Senator Pia Cayetano nga indi pa gilayon mabatyagan sang publiko ang epekto sang tax suspension.
Ini bangud kun mapasar na bilang layi kag i-execute na ang buhin ukon suspension sang buwis, dapat nga ubuson anay sang mga kumpaniya sang langis ang ila nga existing inventories nga nabakal nga may taxed rates.
Bangud sini, posible nga 30-45 ka adlaw pa antes mag-reflect ang tax suspension ukon mas mas madali naman kun maubos na ang suplay subong.
Kun maubos naman ang daan nga stocks, diri na kag maganubo ang presyo sang gasolina sang tubtub sa P11.2 per liter, samtang mabuhinan naman ang presyo sang diesel sang tubtub sa P6.72 per liter.
Matandaan nga sang Lunes sang gin-aprubahan man sa third and final reading sa Kamara ang kaangay nga hagna matapos nga gin-certify ini sang presidente bilang urgent.
Subong nga adlaw, Marso 18, dapat nga ma-ratify na sang Kamara kag Senado ang amo nga hagna agud nga ma-consolidate ukon masibo ang ila tagsa ka mga bersyon para nga mapasa na sa presidente para nga mapirmahan sini.
Subong man ang katapusan nga adlaw sang Kamara kag Senado antes ang isa ka bulan nga congressional break para sa Semana Santa.
”Indi pa kinahanglan ang state of national emergency”-Malacañang
Gin-athag sang Malacañang nga indi pa kinahanglan nga magdeklarar sang state of national emergency ang pungsod agud makontrol ang presyo sang gatong.
Claire Castro, nga nagapadayon ang pagpakig-angot ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kay Energy Secretary Sharon Garin kag ila pa nga maistorya ang mga nagapanag-iya sang Oil Companies sa pungsod agud mapahagan-hagan ang presyo sini.
Ginatingwaan naman subong nga mahimo na nga layi ang paghatag sang gahom sa Presidente nga mabuhinan ang buwis nga ginabayaran sang mga Pilipino.
Dugang pa ni Castro nga wala pa sa amo nga sitwasyon ang pungsod kag ma-control pa ini sang Gobyerno.
DA, tun-an ang pagpatuman sang price cap sa imported rice
Ginakonsiderar sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pagbutang sang price cap ukon maximum price sa bugas bangud sang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East sa presyuhanay sang produktong petrolyo.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel, Jr., diskusyunan sang ahensya ang implementasyon sini una sa imported rice antes posible isunod ang local rice.
Pahayag sang tiglikom, ginalantaw sang DA nga may ceiling ukon indi dapat maglapaw sa P50 per kilo ang baligyaanay sang well-milled rice.
“Pag-aaralan namin moving forward kung pwede ba mag-impose ng price cap sa sitwasyon ngayon para di mapektuhan ang palay,” suno kay Laurel.
Ginpaathag sini nga nagsaka ang presyo sang bugas sa nagligad nga binulan bangud sa manubo nga suplay kag bangud sa import ban nga ginpatuman anay.
Apang bangud nagsugod na ang harvest season, ginalantaw suno sa iya nga maga-estable na liwat ang presyo.
“Luckily, naman ang kasagsagan ng ating harvest season is starting today actually up to hanggang end of April.
So there’s a chance ma temper rises in prices at baka may chance pa bumaba ng konti,” dugang niya.
Nakalab-ot naman sa ahensya ang reports nga may retailers sang imported rice nga nagamato-mato sa pagpasaka sang presyo nga nagalab-ot na sa P60 kada kilo.
“Kung hindi tumino mga importer dyan sa Cebu at mataas pa rin benta nila, gagawin ko na lang kami na lang magbebenta sa Cebu, kami na mag iimport, kami na magbebenta.
Yung mga importer doon, wala na sila ibebenta,” suno sa tiglikom.
Dapat suno sa iya nga yara lang ini sa P48 tubtub P50 per kilo.
Magluwas diri, may reports man nga may traders nga gina-repack ang imported rice kag ginabutang sa sako nga may label nga local rice agud nga may rason sila sa mataas nga presyo.
“May profiteering angle kami nakikita ngayon.
At kailangan, iyon na nga, iyong pakiusap ko sa ating mga mamimili kung imported rice ‘yan, huwag kayong papayag na gano’n kataas iyong presyo.
Nagaplano ang DA nga mag-conduct sang mas masangkad nga market inspections sa bulig sang law enforcement kag regulatory agencies agud matapna ini nga mga buluhaton sang iban.#
Posible pagdagdag sang penalidad sa mga ginikanan sang mga bully sa eskwelahan, naistoryahan sa Senado
Naistoryahan sa Senado ang posibilidad sang pagdagdag sang penalidad sa mga ginikanan sang mga kabataan nga nagapang-bully sa eskwelahan.
Nagtuhaw ang amo nga proposal kadungan sang joint hearing sang Senate Committee on Basic Education kag sang Committee on Finance.
Ginpamangkot ni Senator Bam Aquino, chair sang education committee, kun ano ang mga lihok nga ginahimo sang Department of Education (DepEd) agud matapna ang mga insidente sang bullying.
Ginpahayag sini nga kinahanglan ang mas mabakod nga preventive measures kag mas madasig nga tikang sa pagdisiplina agud nga indi maandan ang kultura sa pagtami-tami sa kapareho nga kabataan.
Dapat alam ng mga tao na hindi dapat ito ginagawa,” suno kay Aquino.
Diri na kag gindala sini ang gina-propose sang iban nga dapat nga mas involved man ang ginikanan kun ang ila kabataan ang nagapang-bully.
May nag-suggest online na baka daw yung magulang kailangan rin ipenalize kapag yung mga anak bully,” suno sa iya.
Suportado naman ni Senator Raffy Tulfo ang ideya nga may sanctions dapat ang ginikanan sang bully kaangay sang community service.
Chair, dapat may parusa sa mga magulang.
Tapos ikaw maging janitor sa school,” suno kay Tulfo.
Ginduso man ni Tulfo nga indi dapat “reactionary” ang eskwelahan sa kaangay sini nga mga kaso kundi dapat nga mangin proactive agud nga malikawan nga magluntad ini.
Ginkwestyon man sini kun ngaa nga nakadepende pa ang imbestigasyon sa formal complaints, ilabi na nga may mga biktima nga nahadlok mag-report.
Nagpaathag naman ang DepEd nga ginapabaskog man nila ang ila nga mga programa nga ma-engganyo ang mga estudyante nga mag-intervene kag mag-report kun may nahibaluan sila nga bullying incidents.
Gina-develop man sang ahensya ang parental involvement sa bullying prevention kasunod sang mga rekomendasyon halin sa Second Congressional Commission on Education.
Sandig sa EDCOM II, 63% sang Grade 5 students ang nag-report nga gina-bully sila sang at least isa ka bes sa kada isa ka semana.
Sa hearing, ginplastar man ni EDCOM II technical specialist for basic education Riz Comia nga ang bullying makabig nga “direct driver” sang krisis sa edukasyon sa Pilipinas.
Lakip sa rekomendasyon sang EDCOM II amo ang pagpain sang dugang nga pondo kag personnel para sa anti-bullying programs kag pagbutang sang “discipline officer” position sa mga eskwelahan agud nga makaayo ang student behavior concerns.#
Marcos, gin-anunsyo ang dugang nga mga ayuda para sa mga Pilipino
Gin-anunsyo ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
ang distribusyon sang cash assistance kag fuel subsidies para sa mga driver sang pampubliko nga salakyan, mga mangunguma, kag mga manugpangisda.
Ini ang kabahin sang tikang sang gobyerno agud nga mapahagan-hagan ang palas-anon sang mga Pilipino sa tunga sang nagatimbuok nga presyo sang gatong dala sang gyera sa Middle East.
Subong nga Martes, Marso 17, umpisahan na sang Department of Social Welfare and Development ang paghatag sang tag-P5,000 nga ayuda sa 139,000 tricycle drivers sa 17 local government units sa National Capital Region (NCR).
Pagkatapos sini suno sa presidente, makabenepisyo man ang tricycle drivers sa gwa sang Metro Manila amo man ang transport network vehicle service (TNVS) kag jeepney drivers nga makabaton man sang P5,000 cash assistance.
Sa katapusan nga semana sang Marso, ang fuel subsidy naman halin sa Department of Transportation ang magaabot.
Agud masiguro naman ang bastante nga suplay sang pagkaon, may P3,000 nga fuel subsidy nga ihatag sa masobra 26,000 ka mga mangunguma sa pungsod.
Sa Huwebes, Marso 19, may ihatag man ang Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) nga P3,000 nga fuel subsidy sa 26,000 ka mga manugpangisda.
“Sisikapin din ng Department of Agriculture na ipamahagi sa Abril sa bawat magsasaka at mangingisda ang lagpas P2,000 tulong mula sa Presidential Assistance for Farmers and Fisherfolk Program,” suno kay Marcos.
“Magagamit po ito ng mga magsasaka sa kanilang hanapbuhay,” dugang sini.
Para naman sa mga negosyo, nagpahayag si Marcos nga buhinan sang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) ang passenger service charge, landing, parking, kag iban pa nga fees.
“Ito ay makakatulong para bumaba ang gastos ng mga airline at ang mga pamasahe sa eroplano,” suno sa chief executive.
Panubuon man sang Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) ang kalawigon sang pag-review sang fuel surcharge halin sa isa ka bulan panubo sa 15 ka adlaw.
Ini agud nga mangin madasig ang adjustment sang balayran sa kada magbag-o ang presyo sang jet fuel.
“Ibig sabihin, kapag tumaas ang presyo ng jet fuel, mas kontrolado ang pagtaas ng airfare.
At kapag bumaba naman ang presyo ng jet fuel, mas mabilis ding bababa ang pamasahe,” suno pa kay Marcos.
Nagmandu man ini sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno nga irepaso ang mga regulasyon sa paghatag sang lisensya, permits, clearances, kag certifications.
“Tingnan ninyo kung alin dito ang puwede munang suspendihin o ‘di kaya ay babaan ang mga singil upang makabawas sa mga iniintindi ng taong-bayan,” dugang sini.
Sa sector sang edukasyon, ginpahanumdom sini nga ginadumilian ang fees and contributions sa mga pampubliko nga eskwelahan ilabi na sa graduation season.
Sa Marso 25, magapatigayon man ang Department of Education (DepEd) sang Serbisyo Fairs.
Yara ang government agencies kag employers sa mga eskwelahan agud nga maka-apply ang high school students kag graduates para sa employment kag mas mahapos ang access sa clearances.
“Mga kababayan, ngayon, higit kailanman, kailangan natin ang pagtutulungan ng bawat isa.
Walang iwanan, walang maiiwan sa pagharap natin sa hamong ito,” suno pa sa iya video message.
“Asahan ninyo ang patuloy naming paggawa ng mga hakbang upang maibsan ang mabigat na epekto ng kaganapan sa Gitnang Silangan sa taong-bayan,” dugang sini.
“Nawa’y manatili ang ating tiwala sa isa’t isa at ang pananampalataya na malagpasan din natin ang mga pagsubok.
Dalangin natin ang kapayapaan at kaligtasan ng lahat.
Marami pong salamat,” mensahe pa sini sa mga Pilipino.
PBBM, gin-certify na ang isa ka layi nga may tinutuyo nga amyendahan ang Biofuels Act of 2006
ang isa ka layi nga may tinutuyo nga amyendahan ang Biofuels Act of 2006.
Sa isa ka sulat nga ginpadala sa kamara subong nga adlaw, Marso 16, ginpahayag ni Marcos ang urgent certification sa sini nga layi nga may tinutuyo nga mabuhinan ang epekto sang padayon nga pagsaka sang presyo sang krudo.
Ini bangud man sa nagapadayon nga nagalala nga geopolitical tensions sa US-Israel kag Iran.
Ginpahayag pa sang Presidente nga ang layi may tinutuyo nga pabaskugon ang kapasidad sang pungsod nga masarangan sini ang posible nga problema sa suplay sang enerhiya sa palaabuton.
Sa idalum sang Republic Act 9367, nagamandato ini nga gamiton ang locally sourced bioethanol agud mabuhin ang pagsalig sang pungsod sa gina-import nga gasolina kag diesel.
Nauna na nga ginpahayag sang Philippine Biodiesel Association nga ang ini nga layi gihapon ang pinakamasaligan nga depensa sang pungsod batok sa pagsalig sa imported nga petrolyo.
2 ka Pinoy sa UAE, nalakip sa gin-aresto bangud sa pag-share sang content kaangot sa giyera
Gina-verify sang gobyerno sang Pilipinas ang reports nga may mga Pinoy nga gin-aresto sa Dubai bangud sa pag-share sang online content nga naangot sa atake kag air defense interceptions sa United Arab Emirates.
Suno sa Philippine Embassy sa Abu Dhabi kag Consulate General sa Dubai, ginakuha pa ang opisyal nga kumpirmasyon halin sa lokal nga awtoridad kaangot sa identity, status, kag legal circumstances sang mga involved nga duha ka Pinoy.
Sa statement sang embahada kag consulate, ginsiling nga gina-respeto sini ang soberanya sang UAE kag ang ila kinamatarong nga ipatuman ang ila layi nga naangot sa national security, cybercrime, kag public order.
Ginapahanumdom man sa overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) nga magtuman gid sa layi sang pungsod kun sa diin sila naga-trabaho kag mangin mahinalungon sa paggamit sang social media kag messaging platforms.
Gina-abisuhan man sang embahada ang mga Pilipino nga likawan ang pag-rekord, pag-post, pag-forward, kag pag-komento sa indi beripikado ukon sa mga sensitibo nga security-related content agud malikawan ang paglapta sang rumor sa mga impormasyon nga indi pa man sigurado.
Istrikto nga ginadumilian sang UAE ang pag-share sang misleading ukon fabricated security-related content lakip na ang videos sang air defense interceptions, mga pagpang-atake sa ila landmarks, kag AI-generated false footage.
Ginakabig ini nga criminal offense nga mahimo silutan sang pagka-preso kag substantial fines.
Nahibaluan nga nagaguwa subong sa reports nga sa 25 nga naaresto bangud sa pag-share sang content sang pagpang-atake sa ila pungsod, duha ang Pinoy samtang may iban man nga nationalities kaangay sang Indians, Pakistanis, kag Bangladeshis.
Isa ang UAE sa naka-eksperyensya sang missile kag drone attacks halin sa Iran halin sang nagsugod ang gyera sang Pebrero 28.
Ridon, kun magsumite sang sabat ang Bise Presidente, tumuron sang Justice Committee kun “sufficient in grounds” ang impeachment complaints kag patigayunon ang hearing proper sa Abril 8.
SSS, naglunsar sang facial authentication para sa mga pensioners
Naglunsar ang Social Security System (SSS) sang facial authentication para sa mga pensioners, agud makabulig sa pagkumpleto sang ila Annual Confirmation of Pensioners (ACOP) online nga indi na ang mga ini kinahanglan nga magpadulong sa tagsa ka mga SSS branch.
Sa amo nga system upgrade sang ahensya, ang facial scan kag biometric check ang magasigurado nga lehitimo nga indibdiwal ang nagarehistro.
Available ang amo nga feature sa mga pensioners nga may PhilSys National ID, mga pensioners nga yari sa Pilipinas kag abroad, lakip na ang mga nakabaton sang survivorship pension.
Suno sa SSS, madasig kag safe ang amo nga proseso kag sarang ini mahimo sa bisan ano nga device nga may camera.
Para sa mga wala sang compatible device, mahimo man gihapon nga magpadulong sa tagsa ka mga SSS branches.
Filipina Tennis star nga si Alex Eala, liwat nga magapasakop sa Miami Open sa masunod nga semana bilang No.
Liwat nga magapasakop ang Filipina Tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa Miami Open sa masunod nga semana bilang No.
Bangud sini, direkta nga magasulod si Eala sa round 64 nga indi na kinahanglan nga maghampang sa una nga round.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nakadangat si Eala hasta sa semifinals sang pareho nga tournament matapos sini malutos ang pila ka hangkilan nga mga Tennis players sa bilog nga kalibutan, rason nga mas nagtaas ang world ranking sini nga sa karun ang yara na sa world no.
Sa karun, ginapaabot man sang fans ni Eala ang iya hampang para sa Miami Open.
Bangkay sang Pinay caregiver nga napatay sa missile strike sa Israel, nakaabot na sa Pilipinas
Nagatalangison nga ginsugata sang pamilya sa Pilipinas ang pag-abot sang bangkay sang Filipina caregiver nga si Mary Ann De Vera.
Nag-upod man sa pagpauli ang bana ni De Vera nga si Bernie Lavarias nga naga-trabaho man sa Israel.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, matandaan nga personal nga nagpakigkita si Israeli President Isaac Herzog kay Lavarias agud nga makig-simpatiya sa kasubo sini nga nabatyagan bangud sa kamatayon sang iya asawa.
“Dasal, pakikiramay at buong suporta naman ang ipinahatid ng mga opisyal ng Department of Migrant Workers (DMW), Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA), H.E.
Dana Kursh, at ilang miyembro ng Kongreso at kinatawan ng Senado na sumalubong sa labi ng OFW Mary Ann, bilang pagkilala sa kanyang katapangan at sakripisyo habang ginagampanan ang kanyang tungkulin,” suno sa post sang DMW.
Matandaan nga napatay ang 32-anyos nga caregiver sang naigo ini sang debris sang missile samtang ginabuligan sini ang iya alaga nga makasaylo sa bomb shelter sa kasagsagan ang pagpamomba sang Iran bilang balos man sa nauna nga atake sang US kag Israel sa Tehran.
Tumandok siya sang Pangasinan kag naga-trabaho sa Tel Aviv halin sang 2019.
Una na nga ginpakigbahin sang previous employers ni De Vera nga nagabusong pa ini sang iya subang nga bata sang natabo ang gyera sa Middle East.#
Senado, wala gin-aprubahan ang pangabay ni Sen.
dela Rosa nga magamit ang iya pamilya sang Senate Mansion sa Baguio City
Wala gin-aprubahan sang Senado ang pangabay ni Sen.
Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa nga magamit ang iya pamilya sang Senate Mansion sa Baguio City.
Ini matapos nga nag-request ang senador nga gamiton sang iya pamilya ang Senate Mansion sa palaabuton nga Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (CSAFP) Cup 2026 nga sport competition nga maga-umpisa halin Marso 26 tubtob Marso 29, 2026.
Marso 12 sang nagpadala si Dela Rosa sang sulat kay Senate President Vicente “Tito” Sotto III agud pasugtan ang iya pamilya nga magtinir sa Mansion samtang patigayunon ang aktibidad.
Apang ginpahayag ni Senate Secretary Mark Llandro Mendoza nga indi ini mahimo bangud gina-renovate subong ang mansion, kag may ara man sang polisa nga kinahanglan kaupod ang senador kun gamiton ini.
Nahibaluan nga wala na nakapakita ang senador sa publiko humalin Nobyembre 2025.
Wala naman sini gintambungan ang tanan nga aktibidad sa Senado apisar nga nagapadayon sa gihapon ang iya baton sang sweldo bilang senador sang pungsod.
Nag-umpisa nga nangin missing in action si Dela Rosa sang ginwaragwag ni Ombudsman Boying Remulla nga nag-gwa na ang gina-alegar warrant of arrest halin sa International Criminal Court (ICC) batok sa iya bangud sa iya nangin papel bilang PNP chief sang ginpatuman ang Duterte drug war.
DPWH Secretary Vince Dizon, nagapati nga dako ang nabulig sang ICI sa pag-imbesitigar sang maanomaliya nga flood control projects sa pungsod
Suno kay Dizon nga nakabulig ang ICI sa pagkay-o sang mga ebidensya nga ginsumiter sa Ombudsman.
Nahibaluan nga gin-anunsyo kahapon, Marso 13, nga tapuson na ang operasyon sang amo nga komisyon subong nga Marso.
Nahatag naman sang mga ini ang tanan nga dokumento sa Ombudsman.
Madumduman nga gintukod ni President Bongbong Marcos ang ICI sang nagligad nga Setyembre 2025 agud nga imbestigaran ang mga gina-alegar nga korapsyon kag iregularidad sa mga flood control kag infrastructure projects sa Pilipinas.
United States military, nagapabilin nga mapag-on ang suporta sa AFP apisar may ara sang gin-redeploy nga pila ka missile systems halin sa South Korea pakadto sa Middle East
Nagapabilin sa gihapon nga mapag-on ang suporta sang United States military sa Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) apisar may ara sang report nga gin-redeploy ang pila ka missile systems halin sa South Korea pakadto sa Middle East.
Suno kay AFP spokesperson for the West Philippine Sea Rear Admiral Roy Vincent Trinidad, wala sang indikasyon nga may ara sang plano ang Washington nga bawion ang ila military assets nga nakabase sa Pilipinas.
Ang United States of America may Visiting Forces Agreement (VFA) sa Pilipinas kag may access sa pila kapasilidad sang Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP.)
Dala sa mga US assets sa Pilipinas ang Typhon (Mid-Range Capability) missile system, nga naka-deploy halin pa sang 2024.
Dugang pa diri, ang Navy-Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS), nga nag-abot lamang sang nagligad nga tinuig kag ginagamit ini nga mga defense systems sa military exercises.
Pahayag ni Trinidad nga nagsugod na ang US sa pagkuha sang pila ka missile-defense systems halin sa South Korea para i-deploy sa Middle East.
Suno pa sa iya nga nagapadayon ang pagpalapad sang kooperasyon sa tunga sang Pilipinas kag US.
Ginhatagan man sini sang pasidungog ang pag-apruba sang US Congress sang Disyembre 2025 sa Philippine Enhanced Resilience Act, nga nagahatag sang $2.5 bilyon nga security assistance sa masunod nga lima ka tuig.
Ang Pilipinas kag Estados Unidos konektado paagi sa Mutual Defense Treaty (MDT) sang 1951, nga nagapahanumdom sa duha ka pungsod nga magabuligay sa tion sang armed attack.
Indi lang pag-suspend kundi dalayon gid nga pagbasura sa excise taxes sa produktong petrolyo ang ginaduso ni Gabriela Party-list Rep.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Elago, iya ginpahayag nga daku nga buhin sa palas-anon sang mga Pilipino kun kakason ini nga buwis ilabi na nga may krisis subong sa langis nga ginaatubang sa pungsod nga epekto sang gyera sa Middle East.
Yara subong sa P6 kada litro ang excise tax sa diesel, samtang P10 kada litro naman ang excise tax sa gasolina.
Magluwas diri, ginaduso man sang kongresista ang pagkakas sang 12% nga Value Added Tax (VAT) sa serbisyo kag basic goods kaangay sang pagkaon, tubig, kag elekrisidad.
Nahibaluan nga madugay na ginapamatukan women’s group nga Gabriela ang implementasyon sini nga buwis bangud sang bug-at nga dala sini sa working class.
Sa nauna nga mga protesta, ginlaragway sang grupo ini nga buwis bilang awtomatiko nga palas-anon nga naga-igo sa mga pigado sa kada tion nga may yara sila sang baklon.
Sa pihak nga bahin, matandaan nga ginsertipikahan na ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
bilang urgent ang hagna sa Kamara nga amo ang magatugot sa presidente nga i-suspend ukon buhinan ang excise taxes sa petroleum products kun may yara sang national ukon global economic emergencies.
Sa idalom sang amo nga hagna, mahimo ma-adjust sang presidente ang excise tax sa fuel sandig sa mga rekomendasyon halin sa Development Budget Coordination Committee kag sa Department of Energy apang subject pa sa pila ka mga kondisyon.#
Request ni Bato nga maggamit sang Senate mansion para sa shooting competition, ginbasura
Wala ginpahanugutan sang Senado ang request ni Senator Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa nga magamit sang iya pamilya ang Senate Mansion sa Baguio City.
Sa sulat kay Senate President Tito Sotto kahapon, Marso 12, ginpangayo ni dela Rosa nga tugutan ang iya pamilya nga mag-istar anay sa Senate Mansion para sa Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines ukon CSAFP Cup 2026 shooting competition sa Marso 26 tubtob 29.
Suno naman kay Mark Llandro Mendoza, Senate Secretary, sandig sa patakaran, kinahanglan nga upod mismo ang senador kun may magamit sang Senate Mansion.
Dugang pa niya, ginapaidalom man subong sa renovation ang amo nga mansion.
Nahibaluan nga hiwaton ang CSAFP Cup 2026 sa Philippine Military Academy (PMA) firing range sa Fort Del Pilar, Baguio City.
Missing in action si Dela Rosa halin sang Nobyembre 2025.
Nag-umpisa ini matapos gin-anunsyo ni Ombudsman Jesus Crispin “Boying” Remulla nga nakit-an na sini ang ginaalegar kopya sang alleged warrant of arrest halin sa International Criminal Court (ICC) batok kay Dela Rosa.
Ginhingadlan ang amo nga senador (nga former PNP chief) bilang alleged co-conspirator sa crimes against humanity case nga ginapangatubang ni former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Apisar nga wala ginkumpirma sang ICC kun ano ka matuod ang claim ni Remulla, wala na nagpakita si Dela Rosa sa tanan nga official activities, hearings, kag sessions sang Senado apisar nga nagabaton gihapon ini sang iya nga sweldo.#
US, wala sang plano nga bawion ang ila military assets nga diri sa Pilipinas —AFP
Ginklaro sang Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) nga wala nagbag-o ang suporta sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika sa Pilipinas.
Ini kasunod sang reports nga may redeployment sang US missile systems halin sa South Korea pakadto sa Middle East bangud sang padayon nga gyera batok sa Iran.
Suno sa AFP, wala sang indikasyon nga plano sang Washington nga kuhaon ukon bawion ang ila military assets nga yara sa Pilipinas.
Lakip sa assets sang US nga yari sa Pilipinas amo ang Typhon (MRC) missile system kag ang Navy-Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System (NMESIS).
Pareho nga nag-abot sa Pilipinas ini nga assets sang 2025, kag pareho man nga gingamit sa military exercises kaangay sang Balikatan Exercise.
Ini ang kabahin sang military cooperation sa tunga sang US kag Pilipinas para sa depensa kag seguridad sang rehiyon.
Gin-athag man sang opisyal nga ang EDCA sites amo ang Philippine bases nga may pasilidad para sa mutual defense kag humanitarian assistance kag wala ginagamit bilang staging areas para sa offensive operations.
NEW HISTORIC LOW: Balor sang PH Peso, nagsarurot pa sa P59.735 vs US Dollar
Nagsarurot sa panibag-o nga historic low ang balor sang Philippine Peso batok sa US dollar subong nga adlaw, Marso 13.
Nagtakop ang trading nga P59.735 ang local currency sa kada isa ka US dollar.
Sang Lunes, P59.50 ang peso sa kada dollar nga amo na ang pinakamaluya nga lebel antes ang trading subong nga Byernes.
Kun nagaluya ang balor sang peso, mas naga-kumplikado pa ang sitwasyon sa enerhiya sa Pilipinas bangud nagamahal ang imported goods lakip na ang langis bangud gina-purchase ang langis paagi sa dolyar.
Magluwas diri, bangud man sang pagluya sang peso, may impact man ini sa utang sang Pilipinas, ilabi na nga one-third sang amo nga utang ang naghalin sa foreign creditors ukon mga manugpautang halin sa luwas sang pungsod.
Una na nga ginsiling ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga indi sini luyag nga makalapaw ang peso sa 60 pesos sa kada isa ka dolyar, bangud kun magluya ang balor sang Peso, pat-od nga magatimbuok na naman ang balayran sa utang.
Andre Reyes, ginrekomenda nga ipauntat na ang operasyon sang ICI
Ginrekomenda na ni Independent Commission for Infrastructure (ICI) Chairman Andres Reyes nga ipauntat ang operasyon sang amo nga komisyon subong nga Marso.
Suno kay Reyes, nahatag na sang komisyon sa Office of the Ombudsman ang tanan nga mga dokumento nahanungod sa flood control scandal kun sa diin magahatag man sila sang kaangay nga mga papeles sa Department of Justice kag Department of Public Works and Highways.
Nagapangabay man si Reyes nga subong nga magatakop na ang ila operasyon sa ICI, mas mangin transparent ang mangin plano kag budget sa mga proyekto sang gobyerno agud nga malikawan ang mga posible nga iregularidad kag korapsyon sa mga ini.
Bato dela Rosa, naghingyo nga maggamit sang Senate Mansion sa Baguio City
Matapos ang binulan nga pagpanago bangud sang ginaalegar warrant of arrest batok sa iya, ginabati-bati nga magatuhaw na gid man si Senator Ronald “Bato” Dela Rosa: indi sa Senado, kundi sa Baguio City.
Lakip ini sa kaundan sang sulat nga ginpadala ni Dela Rosa kay Senate President Vicente “Tito” Sotto III nga napetsahan Marso 12, 2026.
Sa amo nga sulat, nagahingyo ang senador nga pagamiton ang iya pamilya sang Senate Mansion sa Baguio halin sa Marso 26 tubtub 29.
Hiwaton ini nga kumpetisyon sa Philippine Military Academy (PMA) firing range sa Fort Del Pilar, Baguio City.
Apang base sa inisyal nga impormasyon, gina-renovate subong ang Senate Mansion gani posible nga indi man ini pag-ipagamit.
Ginahulat pa ang pormal nga sabat sang Senado.
Sa idalom sang pagsulundan sang upper chamber, mahimo lamang magamit ang Senate Mansion sa Baguio kun yara mismo ang pisikal nga presensya sang senador nga naga-request.
Nahibaluan nga missing in action si Dela Rosa halin sang Nobyembre 2025.
Mga Pinoy sa California, USA, ginapaaligmat sang Malacañang sa posible pagtimalos sang Iran
Nag-abiso ang Malacañang sa mga Pilipino sa California sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga magpabilin nga alerto pananglitan maglunsar sang pag-atake ang Iran sa state bilang pagbalos sa naga-ibwal nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Kasunod ini sang advisory halin sa Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) kag nagpahibalo sa kapulisan sa California nga ginpahayag nga nagtuyo ang Iran nga magpalupad sang mga unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) pakadto sa mga wala ginsapubliko nga target sa amo nga state sang Pebrero.
Nagpaandam man ang FBI nga posible pa gid nga may surprise attack ang Iran sa palaabuton.
Suno naman sa Presidential Communications Office (PCO) sang Malacañang, ang nagapanguna nga prayoridad sang gobyerno amo ang kaluwasan sang mga Pilipino sa iban nga pungsod.
Pahayag sang opisina, magahimo sang repatriation ukon pagpapauli sa ila sa Pilipinas kun kinahanglanon.
Claire Castro, dapat seryosohon ang mga impormasyon nga nagaalin sa mga law enforcement agencies sang United States.
“Kapag may ganiyan na mga impormasyon, kailangan din maghanda ang ating bansa para sa ating mga kababayan,” suno kay Castro.
“Hindi po ito maaring ipagsawalang bahala o tulugan.”
Ginabanta nga 1.6-million ka mga Pilipino ang nagapuyo sa California kun sa diin 500,000 ang nagatinir sa Los Angeles samtang 290,000 ang yara sa San Francisco.
Gavin Newsom nga wala sang imminent threat sa state apisar sang warning halin sa FBI nga maghimo magpalupad ang Iran sang drones sa West Coast bilang kabahin sang ila nga pagtimalos.
Suno kay Castro, ang katungdanan nga ginhatag kay Frasco nagatuyo sa pagpabakod sang implementasyon kag pagsustiner ang priority national initiatives sa lebel sang mga komunidad.
Nahibaluan nga yara na sa DOT si Buensuceso halin sang 2013 kun sa diin nagpangalagad siya bilang Assistant Secretary, Tourism Attache and Director for East Japan, kag head sang Marketing Development Group.
Ginklaro naman sang Palasyo nga wala nag-resign si Frasco sa DOT kundi ginsaylo lang sa lain nga responsibilidad.
Antes sa DOT, nakaserbe anay si Frasco bilang mayor sang Liloan, Cebu kag spokesperson para kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Anak siya ni former Cebu governor Gwendolyn Garcia nga nagsuporta sa Marcos presidential bid kaupod sa One Cebu party.
Matandaan nga nangin kontrobersyal si Frasco sang nagligad nga mga binulan kag nakalab-ot pa sa Senate deliberations bangud sang mga kritisismo nga nagaalegar ginagamit sini ang government-funded tourism programs para sa alleged “self-promotion.”
Kasunod sang amo nga kontrobersiya, ginmandu sini ang pagkakas sang tanan nga DOT materials nga nagalakip sang iya picture kag nagmandu man siya sa tanan nga regional offices nga mag-untat na sa paghimo sang amo nga content.#
Marcos, gindeklarar ang Marso 20 nga regular holiday para sa Eid’l Fitr
ang Marso 20, 2026 (Byernes) nga isa ka regular holiday sa bilog nga Pilipinas bilang pag-obserbar sa Eid’l Fitr.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Claire Castro, ginhimo ang announcement samtang nga gina-updan ni Marcos ang mga myembro kag mga lider sang Muslim community sa Grand Iftar sa Malacañang.
Sa amo nga aktibidad, ginpabakod sang gobyerno ang respeto sini sa mga tradisyon kag mga kontribusyon sang mga Pilipino nga Muslim.
Nahibaluan nga ginaselebrar sang mga Muslim sa bilog nga kalibutan ang Eid’l Fitr sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw matapos ang Ramadan ukon ang Holy Month nga amo ang ginpain nga bulan para sa spiritual reflection paagi sa pagpangamuyo, pagpuasa, kag paglikaw sa mg sala.
GSIS, pahanugutan nga maka-loan ang mga government employees sang kapin P500,000 agud maka-install sang solar panels sa ila puluy-an
Pahanugutan sang Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) ang mga government employees nga mag-loan sang hasta ₱500,000 agud mag-install sang solar panels sa ila tagsa ka puluy-an sa bulig sang “Ginhawa Solar Energy Loan program.”
Ang nasambit nga loan ang may yara sang 5% nga yearly interest kag sarang mabayaran hasta lima (5) ka tuig sa equal monthly payments.
Ang pag-install sang solar panel systems ang may yara man sang free insurance hasta sa tatlo (3) ka tuig batok sa mga trahedya ukon kalamidad pareho sang sunog, linog, kilat kag bagyo.
Kun ang mga panels ang maga-produce sang mas madamo nga elektrisidad nga maga-sobra sa kinahanglanon sang isa ka panimalay, sarang gid mabaligya sang natungdan ang ila extra power pabalik sa electric grid paagi sa net metering, isa ka paagi agud mabuhinan ang electricity bills.
Ang amo nga programa ang may tinutuyo nga mabuligan ang mga government workers nga makakinot sa ila energy costs kag maka-promote sang paggamit sang mas matinlo nga enerhiya, ilabi na sa karun nga nagapangatubang sa krisis sa gatong ang Pilipinas, amo man ang nagataas nga presyo sang kuryente dala sang kinagamo sa Middle East.
Razon, ginbakal ang pinakadako nga independent oil producer sa Colombia
Ginbakal sang Filipino billionaire kag tycoon nga si Enrique K.
Ini ang una nga major overseas energy deal ni Razon.
Ang transaksyon ang natigayon sa tunga sang Prime Infrastructure Capital, ang infrastructure unit ni Razon, kag ang SierraCol Energy Limited sang The Carlyle Group.
Ini nga deal ang nagahatag sa Prime Infra sang control sa kompaniya nga responsable sa ginabanta 10 percent sang oil production sang Colombia.
Ang transaction ang iga-subject sa regulatory approvals kag ginalauman nga ma-close ini subong nga first quarter sang 2026.
Ang mga ini ang lunsay halin sa Fortun Narvasa & Salaza law firm.
Yara man sanday Michael Wesley Poa, Reynold Munsayac, Mark Vinluan, Ralph Bodota kag Roberto Batungbacal.
Kasunod sini, nagpahayag sang pagkadismaya si Bicol Saro party-list Rep.
Terry Ridon bangud duha sa nasambit nga mga abogado nga sanday Poa kag Munsayac ang may conflict of interest bangud nalakip sila sa posible testigo sa paggasto sang confidential funds sang bise presidente.
Si Poa ang anay tagpamaba ni VP Sara sang tiglikom ini sang DepEd.
NBI, wala sang nakita nga ebidensiya nga nagdeliver si Zaldy Co sang maleta nga kwarta kay Pres.
Ginkontra sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) ang nangin pahayag sang 18 ka mga marino nga naggamit sila sang air taxi flight para mag-deliver sang maleta nga kwarta sa balay ni Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Melvin Matibag, wala sila sang nakuha nga ano man nga flight logs nga para pamatud-an nga gin-deliver ni anay Ako Bicol Partylist Rep.
Humalin pa sang 2023 kag 2025, gin-usisa sang NBI ang mga flight record kag wala sila sang nakita nga flight ni Co kag pila ka mga opisyal.
Belnard Tube nga gin-upod siya ni Co para magbiyahe sa Ilocos Norte kag i-deliver ang maleta nga kwarta sa presidente.
MUP 2020 Rabiya Mateo, gin-anggid sa sikat nga fictional character nga si Linda Walker matapos nagpanguna sa NMAT sa bilog nga Pilipinas
Ginpa-anggid sa sikat nga fictional character subong online nga si “Linda Walker” si Miss universe 2020 Rabiya Mateo matapos nagpanguna sa National Medical Admission Test (NMAT).
Ini matapos makakuha sang 741 nga puntos sa beauty queen, nga nagbutang sa iya sa Top 1 sa mga examinees sa Pilipinas.
Nalapawan naman sini ang score sang fictional character nga si Linda Walker sa drama nga “The Heiress Who Won with Brains” nga nakakuha naman sang 719 points sa NMAT.
Si Rabiya ang produkto sang Iloilo Doctors’ College kag nag-graduate bilang cum laude sa kurso nga Bachelor of Science in Physical Therapy.
Ginpakigahin man sini sang nagligad nga mga binulan nga gusto sini magbalik sa medical school kag isa sa mga tikang sini amo ang pagkuha sang NMAT.
Sa madumduman nga ginpasapubliko ni Rabiya nga nagasuprer ini sang depresyon kag anxiety.
Suno pa sa Ilongga beauty queen nga gusto sini gamiton ang iya kalam kag ihibalo para makabulig sa iban.
Ang National Medical Admission Test (NMAT) isa ka standardized exam nga kinahanglan maagyan sang kadam-an nga gusto magpursue sa medical school sa Pilipinas.
House Speaker Dy, ginpasiguro nga padayon nga magahulag ang Kamara agud mapamag-an ang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East
Ginpasiguro ni House Speaker Faustino ‘Bojie’ Dy III, nga padayon nga magahulag ang House of Representatives of the Philippines agud mapamag-an ang epekto sang tensyon kag giyera sa Middle East sa ekonomiya sang Pilipinas.
Suno sa Speaker, bisan malayo sa pungsod ang kinagamo, mabatyagan gihapon sang mga Pilipino ang epekto sini labi na ang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong.
Nagadala man ini sang pagmahal sang pamasahe, pagkaon kag iban pa nga mga nagpanguna nga kinahanglanon sang mga Pilipino.
Ginatun-an man ni Dy nga itulod sang Kamara, kaupod sang ehekutibo nga sanga sang gobyerno, ang mga priority bills kag mga tikang agud mapanubo ang epekto sang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong para sa mga mangunguma, commuters kag mga magagmay nga negosyante.
Dugang pa sang Speaker, padayon nga tutukan sang Kongreso ang mga polisa nga magapabakod sa ekonomiya kag magaproteher sa palangabuhian sang mga pumuluyo.
Ginsiling man ni Dy nga pareho sa mga nagligad nga krisis nga nalampuwasan sang pungsod, malampuwasan man sang mga Pilipino ang ini nga krisis subong.
DOE Secretary Sharon Garin, ginpangabay sa Senado nga dapat himuan sang paagi nga mabuhinan ang presyo sang mga gatong ilabi na ang diesel
Ginkabalak-an sang tiglikom sang Department of Energy nga si Sharon Garin, ang mataas nga presyo sang produktong petrolyo nga nagakaapekto sa mga nagkalain-lain nga sektor sa pungsod.
Ini matapos nga gin-anunsyo sini sa Senate of the Philippines kahapon nga adlaw ang isa sa pinakadako nga pagsaka sang presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo sa kasaysayan sang Pilipinas bangod sang nagakatabo nga krisis sa Iran.
Sa gintingob nga hearing sang Senate Committee on Ways and Means kag Senate Committee on Energy, gin-athag sang tiglikom nga tuman ka bug-at ang pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong sa sini nga semana.
Suno pa sa iya nga ang tuman nga ginakabalak-an sang publiko nga presyo sang gatong amo ang diesel bangud 65% sang public transportation ang nagagamit sini.
Dugang pa niya nga dapat himuan sang paagi nga mabuhinan ang presyo sang diesel gamit ang budget sang gobyerno bangud amo sini ang tuman nga nagaapekto sa mga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga nagsaka sang ₱7.00 tubtob ₱13.00 ang gasolina; samtang ₱17.50 tubtob ₱24.25 sa diesel; kag ₱32.00 tubtob ₱38.50 naman ang sa kerosene.
Kamara, gin-aprubahan na ang hagna nga nagahatag gahom kay PBBM nga temporaryo nga suspendihon ukon buhinan ang excise tax sa mga gatong
Gin-aprubahan na sang House of Representatives sa second reading ang hagna nga magahatag gahom kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
nga temporaryo nga suspendihon ukon buhinan ang excise tax sa mga produktong petrolyo sa pungsod.
8418 nagatuyo nga magahatag sang konsiderasyon sa mga pumuluyo kun magsaka ang gastos sa transportasyon, pagkaon kag iban pa nga nagapanguna nga balaklon bangud sang pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong sa global market.
Suno sa mga mamalidha nga nagpatuman sang amo nga hagna, lakip na sanday Ilocos Norte Rep.
Ferdinand Alexander “Sandro” Marcos kag House Speaker Faustino “Bojie” Dy III, ini magaserbe bilang madasig nga mekanismo sang gobyerno para maatubang ang tuman nga pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong.
Ang ini nga layi ginahatagan ang Presidente sang gahum agud mapatuman ang mga kondisyon kaangay sa kun maglab-ot ukon magsobra sa $80 kada bariles ang presyo sang Dubai crude oil sa sulod sang isa ka bulan, kag kun may ara sang state of national emergency ukon kalamidad nga nagadala sang indi ordinaryo nga pagsaka sang presyo sang petrolyo sa pungsod.
Samtang, ginapanindugan sang Kamara nga may limitasyon ang gahum sang Presidente:
Ang suspensyon ukon pagbuhin sang buwis pwede lang ipatuman asta anom ka bulan, kag indi maglapaw sa isa ka tuig, magluwas lang kun palawigon ukon tapuson sang Kongreso ini pinaagi sa joint resolution.
Kinahanglan man nga maghimo sang report ang Presidente sa Kongreso sa sulod sang 15 ka adlaw matapos ang kasuguan kag kinahanglan man sini nga maghatag sang monthly report sa epekto sini sa presyo sang gatong, inflation, kag kita sang gobyerno.
Miro Quimbo, chairman sang House Committee on Ways and Means, ang plano kag nagsiling nga may nagakaigo nga safeguard ini para maprotektahan ang mga konsumidor samtang ginapabilin nga mabaskog ang pondo sang gobyerno.
Tuyo sang plano nga masiguro nga may handa nga tikang ang gobyerno batok sa mga krisis sa global supply sang gatong nga mahimo makaapekto sang pagsaka sang presyo sang mga nagapanguna nga balaklon sa pungsod.
Jinggoy Estrada, naglisensya nga magabyahe siya sa abroad; DOJ, nagapamatok
Balabagan sang Department of Justice (DOJ) ang apelar ni Senator Jinggoy Estrada sa Sandiganbayan nga tugutan ini nga magbyahe sa luwas sang pungsod.
Suno kay DOJ spokesperson Polo Martinez, isa ka “flight risk” si Estrada kag indi dapat magpa-abroad ilabi na nga may yara sang precautionary hold departure order (PHDO) batok sa iya halin sa korte sa Manila.
Gin-file ni Estrada ang mosyon nga nagapangayo sang pahanugot nga makabyahe sa Hong Kong, Macau, kag sa Japan halin sa Marso 31 tubtub Abril 5.
May ginapangatubang pa siya nga kaso kaangot sa alleged misuse sang iya nga Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF) sa nagligad sini nga termino bilang senador.
Magluwas diri, may PHDO nga ginpagwa ang Manila Regional Trial Court Branch 52 matapos nakitaan sang probable cause agud patihan nga siya kag ang iban pa nga respondents ang posible nga magguwa sa pungsod agud nga makalikaw sa pag-aresto kag kaso.
Ini nga order ang naangot naman sa plunder complaint batok kay Estrada sa DOJ bangud sang alleged involvement sini sa maanomaliya nga flood control projects.
Pahayag pa ni Martinez, ang korte nga nag-isyu sang PHDO amo lamang ang maka-revoke sang ila kaugalingon nga order.#
32 ka dugang nga OFWs kag ila pamilya halin sa Middle East, nakabalik na sa Pilipinas
Nag-abot sa Pilipinas ang dugang nga mga overseas Filipino workers (OFWs) kag ila mga pamilya nga naapektuhan sang nagasingki nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Sa report sang Department of Migrant Workers (DMW), 32 ka repatriates halin sa Oman ang nakabalik sa Pilipinas sakay sa Oman Air flight WY843.
Lakip sa sini nga numero ang 24 ka OFWs kag walo ka family dependents.
Magluwas sa ila, may yara man sang apat ka OFWs halin sa Dubai kag Oman nga ginbuligan man sang gobyerno nga makapauli.
Suno sa DMW, bangud sang gyera, nagbuligay ang gobyerno kaupod ang embahada kag mga konsulado sang Pilipinas, DMW-Migrant Workers Offices, kag Overseas Workers Welfare Administration nga ma-arrange ang land transportation para nga makakadto ang mga Pinoy sa hilway nga exit points kag mga alternatibo nga airport nga bukas pa para sa international travels.
“Ang airspace sa bansang pinanggalingan nila ay very limited kaya naghanap ng paraan to cross the border sa isang bansa na makakalipad sila, and now, they’re here,” kabahin sang pahayag ni Migrant Workers Secretary Hans Leo J.
Nahibaluan nga masobra na sa 400 Filipinos ang nagdesisyon nga magbalik sa Pilipinas halin sang nag-umpisa ang gyera sa Middle East sang Pebrero 28, 2026.#
Marcos, naghingyo nga suportahan ang Pilipinas nga makakuha sang non-permanent seat sa UN Security Council
ang suporta sang iban nga pungsod para sa kandidatura sang Pilipinas sa non-permanent seat sa United Nations Security Council para sa 2027-2028.
Suno kay Marcos, masami ginapamatud-an sang Pilipinas nga isa ini ka independent kag masaligan nga partner, isa ka innovative pathfinder, kag committed peacemaker.
Ginbalikan man sini ang kontribusyon sang pungsod sa development sang kalibutan, kag kun paano sini ginaposisyon ang kaugalingon agud nga matiglawas ang tingog sang Global South sa United Nations Security Council.
Pahayag pa sini, kinahanglan ang kalibutan ang amo nga council ilabi na subong nga panahon kun sa diin may mga kumplikto kag pag-ilinaway sang mga pungsod sa rehiyon.
Sa amo man nga speech, nagpanawagan ang presidente sa paghagan-hagan sang mga kalakasan kag pag-respeto sa international law lakip na sa UN Charter kag humanitarian law sa conflict areas kaangay sang Gaza, Ukraine, Sudan kag sa Middle East.
Pahayag pa sini, suportado sang Pilipinas ang mga tikang agud nga maduso ang kalinong kag mahatagan sang prayoridad ang kinahanglanon sang mga komunidad nga apektado sang gyera.
Diri na kag nagpanawagan man si Marcos sang paghulag sang kalibutan agud nga tapuson na ang gyera.
‘Severe scenario’: DEPDev, nagpaandam nga maglab-ot sa 7.5% ang inflation
Nagpaandam ang Department of Economy, Planning and Development (DEPDev) sa posible paglab-ot sang inflation sa 7% kun magsingki kag magdugay pa gid ang giyera sa Middle East.
Ginplastar ini ni Socioeconomic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan sa atubang sang mga kongresista sa Kamara.
Sa analysis sang ahensya, may yara sang duha ka senaryo nga matabo nga resulta sang away sang US, Israel, kag Iran.
Sa una nga senaryo, posible nga mag-average ang presyo sang langis sa $100 per barrel sa Marso kag magapabilin sa masobra sa $80 per barrel tubtub sa Mayo.
Sa ikaduha nga senaryo nga amo ang mas malala suno sa tiglikom, posible nga mag-average ang presyo sang langis sa $140 per barrel kag magpabilin sa masobra $80 per barrel tubtub sa Septyembre.
Sa idalom sang duha ka nasambit nga mga senaryo, posible suno sa opisyal nga maglapaw na ini sa upper band sang target sang gobyerno nga 2% to 4% nga inflation.
Sa una nga senaryo, ginalantaw nga magdangat sa 4.5%% tubtub sa 5.1% ang inflation sa Marso.
Sa Scenario 2 naman suno kay Balisacan, posible ini magdangat sa 6.3% tubtub sa 7.5% sa Marso kag maglab-ot pa gid sa 6.4% tubtub sa 7.5% sa Abril.
Antes ang gyera sa Middle East, gina-forecast sang socioeconomic planning agency nga mag-average ang inflation sa 3.6% sa 2026 kag 3.2% sa 2027.#
Military operations sa West Philippine Sea, magapadayon bisan may oil crisis —AFP
Magapadayon ang operasyon sang militar sa West Philippine Sea apisar pa sang krisis nga ginaatubang subong sa produktong petrolyo dala sang giyera sa Middle East.
Roy Vincent Trinidad, indi pag-untaton ang operational activities bangud kabahin ini sang mandato sang militar nga proteksyunan ang teritoryo sang Pilipinas.
sa tanan nga ahensya sang gobyerno nga dapat magkinot sa enerhiya.
Ginpamangkot si Trinidad kun maapektuhan bala sini ang mga pagpatrolya kag iban pa nga mga aktibidad sa West Philippine Sea.
Sabat sang spokesperson, ang tanan nga adjustments nga naangot sa pagkinot sang gatong ang iga-addres sang AFP leadership sa institutional level.
Sa latest monitoring sang Philippine Navy, may nakit-an nga 30 ka Chinese vessels sa West Philippine Sea halin sang Marso 1 tubtub Marso 8.
Sa numero nga ini, pinakadamo ang yara sa Panatag Shoal kun sa diin may 11 ka sakayan ang China, lakip ang apat halin sa People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) kag pito halin sa China Coast Guard (CCG).
Walo naman ang na-monitor sa Ayungin Shoal; pito sa Escoda Shoal; kag apat naman ang yara naka-estasyon malapit sa Pag-asa Island.#
Malacañang, ginklaro nga ‘okay’ lang si Marcos apisar ginasip-on ini sa iya speech sa UN
Ginklaro sang Malacañang nga yara sa maayo nga kondisyon si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
samtang yara ini sa New York sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Ini apisar nakit-an ang presidente nga ginasip-on kadungan sang iya paghatag sang speech sa 70th Session sang United Nations Commission on the Status of Women.
Sa pamuno pa lamang sang speech, nakit-an nga nagtulo na ang sip-on ni Marcos apang gilayon man sini nga ginpahidan sang iya panyo.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro, normal lang ini bangud malamig ang tyempo sa amo nga state.
“Hindi ko po natanong kung siya ay may sipon.
Pero siguro dahil sa sobrang malamig, baka normal lang,” suno kay Castro.
“Kahit nga po tayo, ako nga po medyo kumakati-kati ang lalamunan, siguro normal lang sa weather.
Nagdangat sa 10ºC ang temperatura sa New York City sang amo nga adlaw sandig sa Google Weather.
Duha ka adlaw ang working visit ni Marcos sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika kun sa diin natalana man ini nga maghatag sang speech sa Special Session sang UN General Assembly kag iduso ang non-permanent seat para sa Pilipinas sa UN Security Council.
Nag-umpisa sa paggwa ang mga espekulasyon kaangot sa ikaayong-lawas sang presidente matapos ginkumpirma sang Malacañang nga na-ospital ini kag na-diagnose nga may diverticulitis — isa ka kondisyon kun sa diin may inflammation sa small pouches sa colon.#
Trump, pabaskugon pa ang pag-atake sa Iran kun padayon ini nga magapamatok sa distribusyon sang oil supplies
Indi gihapon pagtugutan sang Iran Revolutionary Guards ang pag-export sang bisan isa ka litro sang langis halin sa Middle East kun magapadayon ang mga pagpang-atake sang Estados Unidos kag Israel batok sa ila.
Suno sa Iran Revolutionary Guard, i-shut down nila ang strategic Strait of Hormuz, kun sa diin nagalabay ang yara sa 20% sang oil transits sang kalibutan bulang balos sa nagapadayon nga inaway.
Kasunod sini, ginpaandaman ni President Donald Trump nga mas pabaskugon pa sang Amerika ang pag-atake sa Iran kun padayon ini nga magapamatok sa distribusyon sang oil supplies.
Suno kay Trump, dako na ang kahalitan nga naangkon sang militar sang Iran kag ginapaabot niya nga matapos ang tensyon antes pa ang apat ka semana nga timeframe nga ginhatag sang Amerika sa ila.
Ginpahayag man ni Trump nga ang gyera matapos lang kun mag-surrender ang gobyerno sang Iran.
Pahayag naman sang Israel nga nagatuyo ang mga ini nga patumbahun ang defense system sang Iran samtang naga-focus naman ang US sa pag-intercept sang Iranian missile kag nuclear capabilities.
Robin Padilla, nagpanawagan nga indi pagbansagan nga terorista si Ayatollah Ali Khamenei
Nagpanawagan si Senator Robin Padilla nga indi pagbansagan nga terorista ang anay Supreme Leader sang Iran nga si Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
Suno kay Padilla, kun may Santo Papa, may yara man sang spiritual leader ang mga Muslim kag ini amo si Ali Khamenei.
“Hindi lamang po siya isang matatawag na lider ng isang bansa — spiritual leader po.
Kung mayroon po kayong tinatawag na Pope, mayroon din po kaming tinatawag na spiritual leader,” suno sa senador.
Napatay si Ali Khamenei sa una nga adlaw sang pag-atake sang US kag Israel sa Tehran sang Pebrero 28.
Gindeklarar naman ang iya anak nga si Mojtaba Khamenei nga amo ang nagbulos sa posisyon.
Ang Supreme Leader amo ang “Supreme Leadership Authority”, ang de jure head sang state, kag ang pinakamataas nga political kag religious authority sang Iran nga mas mataas pa sa presidente.
Marcos, nakaabot na sa New York para sa duha ka adlaw nga working visit
Nakaabot na sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
para sa duha ka adlaw nga working visit.
Nag-abot ang punong ehekutibo sa New York Domingo sang hapon (New York time) paagi sa chartered flight.
Domingo sang aga (oras diri sa Pilipinas) ang naghalin si Marcos diri sa pungsod.
Ginalauman nga ipanawagan sini sa mga lideres sa Middle East kag sa tanan nga involved sa gyera nga tahuron ang international law kag ang UN Charter.
Ginalantaw sang Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) nga ang UN ang husto nga lugar kun sa diin makapanawagan sang kalinong ilabi na bangud masobra duha ka milyon ka mga Pilipino ang yara sa rehiyon.
Magapakigkita man mismo si Marcos kay UN Secretary-General António Guterres agud madiskusyunan ang mga development sa Middle East.
Suno naman kay Enrique Manalo, ang Permanent Representative sang Pilipinas sa United Nations sa New York, iplastar man sang presidente ang commitment sang Pilipinas sa pagtuman sa international law bilang paagi agud nga ma-promote ang kalinong sa kalibutan.
Gin-anunsyo naman sang Malacañang nga gin-assign sanday Executive Secretary Ralph Recto, Education Secretary Sonny Angara, kag si Agrarian Reform Secretary Conrado Estrella III bilang caretakers sang gobyerno sa Pilipinas samtang yara pa sa luwas sang pungsod ang presidente.#
80 ka mga Filipino tourist nga na-stranded sa Jordan bangud sa US-Israeli airstrikes sa Iran, natigayun nga makapauli suno sa DFA
Natigayun nga nakapauli ang 80 ka mga Pilipino nga turista nga na-stranded sa Jordan bangud sa US-Israeli airstrikes sa Iran, suno sa Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA).
Base sa record sang DFA, 82 sa 113 ka mga indibidwal nga stranded ang hilway nga nakabyahe halin Queen Alia International Airport padulong sa mga transit hubs sa Cairo, Dubai, Mumbai, kag Riyadh, kun sa diin sila ang magasakay sa ila tagsa ka mga connecting flights pabalik sa Manila.”
81 naman ka mga Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs) nga naapektuhan ang ila mga biyahe bangud sa mainit nga tension sa middle East, ang nakapauli na sa pungsod kahapon nga adlaw.
Sa karun, nagatinguha ang ahensya nga mapapauli ang tanan nga mga Filipino nga na-stranded sa pila ka mga pungsod sa Middle East bangud sa mainit gihapon nga tension sang Amerika kag Iran.
Filipino pole vaulter nga si EJ Obiena, nakuha ang gold medal sa ISTAF Indoor sa Berlin, Germany
Nakuha sang Filipino pole vaulter nga si EJ Obiena ang gold medal sa Internationales Stadionfest Indoor (ISTAF) Indoor sa Berlin, Germany matapos madinalag-un nga nalampuwasan ang 5.78 meters.
Nakuha ni Obiena ang amo nga score sa isa lamang ka attempt, samtang nakuha naman sini ang 5.60 meters sa ikaduha sini nga attempt.
Nakuha naman ni Sondre Guttormsen sang Norway ang silver medal, kag ikatatlo naman sa pwesto sanday Menno Vloon sang Netherlands kag Bo Kanda Lita Baehre sang Germany.
Ginpakigbahin ni Obiena ang amo nga kadalag-an sa iya social media nga may caption nga “Brick by brick we build,” samtang gin-gamit sini ang kanta sang Parokya ni Edgar bilang background music.
‘Sa mga ahensya ng gobyerno na may tungkulin dito, kumilos na kayo’ —VP Sara Duterte sa tunga sang oil crisis
Nagpanawagan si Vice President Sara Duterte sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno nga pabaskugon pa ang monitoring sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo kag basic commodities sa tunga sang mga pagpanghangkat nga epekto sang gyera sa Middle East.
Sa iya nga video statement subong nga aga, ginduso man sini nga mas pabaskugon man ang mga tikang batok sa hoarding.
Dapat man suno sa iya nga maghatag sang abiso ang gobyerno kaangot sa ‘fuel efficient’ distribution sang pagkaon kag insentibo sa public transportation.
“Sa mga ahensya ng gobyerno na may tungkuling dito, kumilos na kayo — Kailangan bantayan ang presyo ng langis at epekto nito sa pangunahing bilihin at transportasyon; magbigay ng maagang babala at magbigay ng paliwanag para sa mga mamamayan,” suno kay Duterte.
“Magbigay ng pansamantalang subsidiyo o price caps sa produktong pagkain at isaalang-alang ang targeted cash transfers sa low-income na pamilya,” dugang sini.
Nagpahayag man si Duterte nga dapat nga pasiraduhan ang mga negosyo nga nagatago sang mga produkto kag nagapalapaw sang presyo.
“Ipatupad ang mahigpit na hakbang laban sa hoarding at labis na taas-presyo.
Gawing regular ang inspeksyon at isarado ang mga lalabag na negosyante.
Magbigay ng pansamantalang subsidiyo o price caps sa produktong pagkain at isaalang-alang ang targeted cash transfers sa low-income na pamilya,” pahayag pa sang bise-presidente.
Nagpakigbahin man ini sang tips kun paano mahimo sang mga ordinaryo nga mga Pilipino ang ila bahin agud nga makakinot sang gatong kag elektrisidad.
“Bumili muna sa lokal na produkto upang palakasin ang lokal na ekonomiya at mabawasan ang epekto ng pagtaas ng langis.
Bawasan ang hindi kailangang paggamit ng enerhiya—tulad ng pag-carpooling, bisikleta, at pwedeng ayusin ang schedule ng lakad upang mabawasan ang madalas na pagbiyahe,” dugang sini.
Sa nauna nga statement ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr., ginmandu naman sini ang four-day work week arrangement para sa mga ahensya sa idalom sang executive department umpisa sa Lunes.
Gin-ban man ang mga non-essential trips bangud sang tuman ka taas nga presyo sang gatong.#
12 Koreans nga ginaalegar naangot sa scam hub sa Pampanga, arestado
Arestado ang 12 ka Korean nationals nga ginaalegar nagatrabaho sa isa ka ginapasuni scamming hub sa Angeles City, Pampanga.
Suno sa Bureau of Immigration (BI), natabo ang raid sang Pebrero 25 nga nag-resulta sa pag-aresto sa 33-anyos nga si Yu Jaemin.
Pahayag sang BI, nag-ugat ang operasyon sa intelligence information nga nabaton nga nagapahayag nga involved ang amo nga indibidwal sa pag-operate sang suspected scam hub kun sa diin ang ginapuntariya amo ang kaangay sini nga Korean nationals kag posible nga iban pa nga foreigners.
Sandig pa sa report sang ahensya, nadiskubrehan naman ang 11 ka iban pa nga foreigners nga nagatrabaho sa opisina sa Poinsettia Street sa Angeles City kun sa diin naka-estasyon sila sa individual work areas kag amo ang aktibo nga nagapangamot sa operational equipment.
Natukiban man sang BI nga pugante ang tatlo sa foreign nationals kag may yara sang existing derogatory records.
Ang iban naman sa mga arestado ang natukiban man nga naga-overstay na sa pungsod nga isa ka paglapas sa Philippine Immigration Act of 1940 (as amended).
Sa amo nga operasyon, isa pa ka Korean ang nag-abot sa premises kag nag-claim nga lessor siya ukon manager sang propiedad.
Ginpahayag nga nagpasilabot ini kag nag-claim nga ginpadala siya sang Korean authorities.
Sang gin-verify sa Korean government, nakumpirma nga wala ini sang kaangtanan sa awtoridad.
Ginbyahe ang mga arestado sa Manila para sa booking kag documentation, kag nagapabilin subong sa BI Warden’s facility samtang ginapangatubang ang deportation cases.#
4Ps members sa idalom sang Lifeline Subsidy Program, indi dapat maglapaw sa 50 kWh nga electric consumption kada bulan
Nagpahanumdom ang Department of Energy (DOE) sa mga myembro sang Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program ukon 4Ps nga indi man mag-abuso sa paggamit sang kuryente apisar nga sulod na sila sa expanded Lifeline Rate Subsidy Program sang gobyerno.
Santo sa Republic Act 11552 ukon ang Lifeline Rate Law, ang lifeline rate amo ang subsidized rate nga ginahatag sa kuwalipikado nga low-income consumers nga wala sang ikasarang sa pinansyal nga magbayad sang ila nga electricity bills.
Sa idalum sang programa, kun ang konsumo sang kuryente sang benepisyaryo yara lamang sa 50 kilowatt-hours (kWh) kada bulan, mahimo ini nga maka-avail sang 100% nga diskwento.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Energy Secretary Sharon Garin, iya ginpahayag nga ang katungdanan sang benepisyaryo amo nga siguruhon nga manubo ang consumption sang elektrisidad kag indi maglapaw sa 50 kWh kada bulan.
Sa official website sang 4Ps, nakabutang nga para naman sa mga pamilya nga naglapaw ang monthly consumption sa 50 kWh, ang i-grant nga applicable lifeline discount ang iga-base sa approved rates kag na-establisar nga uniform national lifeline consumption threshold nga amo ang masunod:
Pahayag ni Garin, nagalaum ang ahensya nga maka-qualify para sa programa ang tanan nga myembro sang 4Ps, apang may iban nga wala sang balay, wala sang ginabayaran nga bills, ukon indi sa ila nakapangalan ang ila electric bills.
Nahibaluan nga diri sa Western Visayas, malapit 150,000 ang benepisyaryo sang amo nga programa.
Sa sini nga programa, wala na sang kinahanglan nga ipasa nga requirements ang mga benepisyaryo bangod automatic na ini nga partnership sang DSWD kag DOE.
Ang DSWD amo na mismo ang nagahatag sang listahan sang mga kwalipikado nga benepisyaryo sa mga electric cooperatives.
Magluwas sa mga myembro sang 4Ps, ginalantaw man nga pasudlon sa Lifeline Rate Subsidy Program sang gobyerno ang iban nga mga pumuluyo nga halin sa low-income households.
Kinahanglan lang ugaling suno sa tiglikom ang mga dokumento kaangay sang certificate of indigency kag mas mauti ang proseso.#
18 ka mga tawo nga nagpakilala nga anay Marines, nagapanago subong bangud sa ila seguridad
Ginapahayag nga nagapanago subong ang 18 ka ka mga tawo nga nagpakilala nga anay Marines nga nagserbe bilang mga bagman ni anay former Ako Bicol Partylist Representative Elizaldy Co.
Suno sa grupo nga nagasuporta sa ila nga United People’s Initiative (UPI) nga ginabug-usan sang mga anay opisyal kag personnel sang military, nagapanago ang amo nga mga indibidwal bangud sa ila seguridad.
Suno sa secretary-general sang grupo nga si Rey Valeros Jr., may pamahog nga nakalab-ot sa 18 ka indibidwal pagkatapos sang ila pagpahayag nahanungod sa ginahingadlan nga pagdul-ong sang mga maleta nga puno sang kwarta sa pila ka opisyal sang gobyerno.
Nahibaluan nga wala magtambong ang amo nga mga indibidwal sa awarding ceremony sang United People’s Initiative (UPI) sa San Juan City kahapon, Marso 6.
Suno pa kay Valeros nga apisar nagapanago sila subong, ginpahayag sini nga handa ang amo nga ginaalegar former marines nga atubangon ang bisan ano nga imbestigasyon kun maga-lab-ot man ini sa Senado, Kamara, ukon sa Office of the Ombudsman.
Nahibaluan nga may ginpasaka na nga kaso-kriminal batok sa amo nga mga indibidwal lakip na kanday Atty.
Oducado, nagapati nga temporary solution lang ang pagsuspend sang excise tax sa gatong
Nathaniel Oducado nga temporaryo lang nga solusyon ang fuel subsidy sang gobyerno kag ang pagduso nga mapasar ang pagsuspend sang excise tax.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Congressman Oducado, iya ginpahayag nga dako gid ang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East sa mga produktong petrolyo kun sa diin ang Pilipinas amo ang isa ka import laden country ukon dependent sa mga oil products sang iban nga pungsod.
Suno sa kongresista, kinahanglan nga may ara gid sang mas mayo nga mapinsaran nga solusyon ang gobyerno agud indi na mabudlayan ang mga Pilipino kun magalawig pa ang gyera sa Middle East.
Dugang pa niya nga luyag man niya mahibal-an kun ano ang stratehiya sang pungsod subong nga padayun ang tension sa Middle East nga nagapanguna nga source sang produktong petrolyo.
Mga nagapamentaha kadungan sang pagtimbuok sang presyo sang gatong, kasuhan —DOE
Nagpaandam ang Department of Energy (DOE) nga kasuhan gid sang ahensya ang tanan nga nagapamentaha kadungan sang pagtimbuok sang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Energy Secretary Sharon Garin kadungan sang iya pagbisita sa Iloilo, ginpahayag sini nga ini nga mandu ang halin mismo kay President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Suno kay Garin, apisar nga kulang sila sa personnel sa idalom sang ila ahensya, pagabuligan sila sang Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) paagi sa mga alkalde kag mga pulis agud nga matapna ang ginahimo sang violators.
Sakop sang pagpamentaha ukon nagahingalit sang sitwasyon amo ang naga-abuso sa pagpasaka sa presyo kag ang tanan nga involved sa profiteering kag hoarding.
Tayo po sama-sama tayo, nagtutulungan tayo.
Yung mga hindi sumusunod, yung nag-te-take advantage, hindi maka-Pilipino yan,” suno sa tiglikom.
Suno pa kay Garin, ipalantaw sini kag pag-imbestigaran sa field office ang reports nga may gasoline stations sa Iloilo nga lab-ot na sa P75 kada litro ang baligyaanay sa kada litro sang diesel subong pa lamang nga semana.
Kun may kaangay sini nga reports kag kun may ginaalegar nga iregularidad, dapat nga i-report gilayon suno kay Garin ukon padal-an sila sang resibo agud nga makadtuan kag mahimuan sang nagakaigo nga tikang.
Gin-post naman sang ahensya ang government hotline nga mahimo mapakig-angutan nga amo ang 8888, ang DOE Consumer Welfare and Promotion Office telephone number nga 8840-2267, kag ang Department of Energy Official Facebook Messenger, ukon via email sa cwpo@doe.gov.ph.
7581 ukon ang Price Act, ginakonsiderar ang hoarding kag profiteering bilang price manipulation kag mahimo masilutan paagi sa multa nga kuwarta kag pagka-preso.
Ang ginaantisipar nga big-time price hike sa fuel products sa Pilipinas sa masunod nga semana ang kabahin na sang epekto sa nagasingki nga tension sa Middle East nga nag-umpisa sang nag-atake ang US kag Israel sa Iran nga ginbalusan naman sang missile strikes sang Tehran.#
‘Naghahanda na po tayo’ —Marcos sa mangin epekto sang big-time oil price hike
Nagpasalig si President Ferdinand ”Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
nga handa ang gobyerno sa tuman ka taas nga presyo sang produktong-petrolyo nga natalana nga ipatuman sa masunod nga semana.
”Malinaw sa atin ang tanong ng maraming Pilipino ngayon: Ano ang gagawin ng pamahalaan?
Naghahanda na po tayo,” kabahin sang pahayag sang presidente sa isa ka video message nga gin-release subong nga gab-i.
Ginpahat-pahat sang presidente kun ano ang iya ginahimo.
Lakip diri ang pagpakig-angot sa Kongreso agud nga mahatagan siya sang awtoridad nga buhinan ang excise tax kun maglapaw na ang presyo sang krudo sa $80 per barrel.
Nakikipag-ugnayan na tayo sa Kongreso upang mapagkalooban ang Pangulo ng pansamantalang kapangyarihan upang bawasan ang excise tax sa mga produktong petrolyo kung papalo ito sa 80 US dollars kada barrel,” pahayag sang punong ehekutibo.
Ginpasalig man sini nga gilayon man nga ipaguwa ang fuel subsidies kag ang cash transfers para sa apektado nga mga sektor.
Suno pa kay Marcos, naga-istorya na siya sa mga mamalidha agud nga amyendaran ang Biofuels Act of 2006 para sa utilization sang mas barato nga bioethanol.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga posible nga magdangat sa masobra P80 kada litro ang presyo sang diesel kun indi pagpahat-pahaton ang pagpatuman sang price hike sa produktong-petrolyo.
Suno ini kay DOE Oil Management Bureau Director Rino Abad kadungan sang iya pagpaathag sa hearing sang Senate Committee on Foreign Relations nga ginapangunahan ni Senator Erwin Tulfo.
Suno kay Abad, sang tion nga nag-ibwal ang tensyon sa tunga sang Ukraine kag Russia, nagdangat ang presyo sa P90 kada litro.
“Yung Ukraine-Russia…umabot po tayo ng mga P90 kasi.
Ayoko po mag-project pero ito’y mas masama pa doon eh kasi ito Middle East ang pinag-uusapan,” suno kay Abad.
Ini ang rason suno sa iya kun ngaa dapat staggered ukon pahat-pahat lang ang price hike kag indi isa lang ka pusdak sang saka-presyo.#
Gin-anunsyo ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
ang pagpatuman sang four-day work week sa pila ka mga opisina sang executive department umpisa sa Lunes, Marso 9.
”Para naman sa bahagi ng pamahalaan: Simula sa Lunes, ika-9 ng Marso, pansamantala nating ipapatupad ang four-day work week sa ilang tanggapan ng ehekutibo,” kabahin sang video message sang presidente nga gin-release subong nga gab-i.
Ini nga tikang ang kasunod sang iya panawagan nga magkinot sa energy resources bangud sa gyera sa Middle East nga nag-apekto sa Pilipinas ilabi na sa presyo sang fuel products.
Suno sa presidente, wala nalakip sa four-day work week arrangement ang mga ahensya nga involved sa nagapanguna ukon emergency services.
Ginmanduan man ang mga ahensya nga magtipid kag magbuhin sang tubtob 20% sa konsumo sang kuryente kag petrolyo.
Temporaryo man nga ginadumilian ang mga biyahe kag mga aktibidad sang gobyerno nga indi kinahanglanon pareho sang study tour, team-building activities, kag mga meeting nga mahimo man himuon online.
Ginpaathag sang Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) nga mangin intact sa gihapon ang sweldo kag benepisyo para sa mga trabahador pananglitan nga sundon sang kumpaniya ang proposed four-day workweek.
Isa ini ka flexible arrangement nga amo ang ginalantaw nga makabulig sa employees kag mga negosyo sa tunga sang pagtimbuok sang energy costs.
Curada, sa idalom sini nga arrangement, makumpleto sang employees ang standard 40-hour workweek sa apat ka adlaw sa baylo nga lima ka adlaw.
Sa pihak sini, wala sang ibuhin sa daily pay.
Sa sini nga compressed workweek setup, mas malawig nga oras ang trabaho sang empleyado kada adlaw agud nga malab-ot ang gina-require nga weekly hours.
Ang dugang nga oras sa sini nga schedule ang indi man makonsiderar nga overtime basta nga nakasulod ini sa nakasugtan nga 40-hour workweek.
DOE: Presyo sang diesel, posible maglapaw sa P80/L kun indi pahat-pahat ang pagpatuman sang price hike
Posible nga magdangat sa masobra P80 kada litro ang presyo sang diesel kun indi pagpahat-pahaton ang pagpatuman sang price hike sa produktong-petrolyo.
Suno ini kay Department of Energy (DOE) Oil Management Bureau Director Rino Abad kadungan sang iya pagpaathag sa hearing sang Senate Committee on Foreign Relations nga ginapangunahan ni Senator Erwin Tulfo.
Ini ang rason suno sa iya kun ngaa dapat staggered ukon pahat-pahat lang ang price hike kag indi isa lang ka pusdak sang saka-presyo.
“Kung mag-implement ang staggered, hindi masyado abot kaagad.
Pero kung one time bagsakan, pwede yung umabot na po,” dugang ni Abad.
Gina-estimate man sang DOE nga magdangat sa tubtub sa P70 kada litro ang presyo sang gasolina sa Marso kun indi man pagpahat-pahaton ang implementasyon sang price hikes.
Ginpresentar man sini sa Senado nga safe pa ang suplay sang langis sa Pilipinas tubtub sa Abril 15.
Magasapol pa ang ahensya oil companies sa masunod nga semana agud nga ma-follow up ang replenishment sang suplay halin sa Abril 16.
“Pinapabili na rin ni secretary ang PNOC ng inventory standby reserve.
So lahat ito, lahat ina-access natin yung anticipation,” dugang ni Abad.
Ang problema sa presyo sang fuel products ang nag-ugat sa pag-atake sang Israel kag US sa Iran, nga amo ang rason kun ngaa nagbalos ang Tehran kag naglapta na ang tensyon sa Middle East.#
DOE, nagpaandam sa mga negosyante nga manghingalit pa kadungan sang big-time oil price hikes
Hugton sang Department of Energy (DOE) ang monitoring bangud sa posible nga paghingalit sang iban nga negosyante sa tion nga tuman ka taas ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Subong pa lang, gina-antisipar na sang ahensya ang posible nga hoarding kag profiteering sa baligyaanay sang petroleum products.
7581 ukon ang Price Act, ini nga mga buluhaton ang pareho nga ginakonsiderar nga price manipulation kag mahimo masilutan paagi sa multa kag pagkapreso.
Lakip sa dagdagan sang multa amo ang short selling, adulteration, hoarding, overpricing, kag misuse of allocations.
Nagapakig-angot na ang DOE sa Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) kag sa Philippine National Police (PNP) para nga may tikang gilayon nga mahimo batok sa violators.
Sa Luzon kag Mindanao, may napasa na nga reports kaangot sa iregularidad sa fuel supply kag retail practices.
Kun basehan pa lamang ang tatlo ka adlaw nga trading sa Mean of Platts Singapore, ang presyo sang kerosene mahimo madugangan sang P28 per liter; diesel madugangan sang P15 per liter; kag ang gasolina mahimo madugangan sang P7 per liter.
Kabahin ini sang epekto sang pag-ibwal sang tension sa Middle East sang gin-atake sang US kag Israel ang Iran nga rason sang pagbalos sang Tehran kag paglapta sang missile attacks sa rehiyon.#
Baste Duterte, naghatag sang tip para sa eleksyon
Nagpasalamat si Davao City Mayor Baste Duterte sa mga padayun nga nagasuporta sa ila pamilya ilabi ni sa ila amay nga si Anay President Rodrigo Roa Duterte nga yara sa gihapon sa subong sa International Criminal Court detention center sa Netherlands, bangud sa ginapangatubang sini nga kaso nga crimes against humanity.
Suno sa alcalde, ila man nahibal-an nga ginapangasubo gid sang ila nga mga taga suporta ang pagkapreso sang ila amay.
Ginpakigbahin niya nga kinahanglan anay nga agwantahun sang mga Pilipino ang natabo sa ila amay, rason nga naghatag ini sang tip sa publiko sa kun ano nga klase sang kandidato ang dapat nga pagasuportaran sang mga Pilipino.
Suno kay Duterte, kinahanglan nga magpili sang isa ka lider ang mga tawo nga may kaangay nga abilidad sa ila nga amay.
Sa madumduman, nagdeklarar si Vice President Sara Duterte nga amo man ang utod ni Davao City Mayor Baste Duterte nga magapadalagan sya bilang president sa masunod nga 2028 Presidential Elections.
Pensyon sang mga miyembro sang Social Security System (SSS) magataas subong nga tuig
Nakatalana nga magataas ang pensyon sang mga miyembro sang Social Security System (SSS) subong nga tuig, kadungan sang pag-implementar sang micro loan program para sa mas mahapos nga access sa kuwarta para sa pang-adlaw-adlaw nga kinahanglanon sang mga myembro sini.
Ginpataas sang SSS ang ila reserve fund sang P1 trillion, nga nangin pinakamataas sa 69 ka tuig sa kasaysayan sini kag nag-record sang mataan man nga net income.
Bangud sini, mahitsu ang padayon nga pagbayad sang pensyon sang buo kag on-time, nga wala ginapataas ang kontribusyon sang miyembro.
Sa palaabuton nga Setyembre 2026, makabatun ang retirement kag disability pensioners sang dugang nga 10%, samtang ang death kag survivor pensioners ang may yara sang 5% nga pagtaas.
May magasunod pa nga adjustment sa Setyembre 2027 suno sa ahensya, nga magahatag sang kabilugan nga pagtaas halin 16% hasta 33% depende sa klase sang pensyon.
Matandaan nga magalunsar man ang SSS sang micro pension loan program para sa mga pensioners nga may P1,000 hasta P20,000 sa mas manubo nga interes kag magamay nga termino sang pagbayad, agud maprotektahan ang mga myembro batok sa mga scam kag mataas nga interes sang informal lending.
54 ka mga mamalidha ang nagboto agud ideklarar nga “sufficient in substance” ang third impeachment complaint nga gin-file sang mga members sang clergy kag mga abogado, kag gin-endorso ni Mamamayang Liberal party-list Rep.
Amo man nga numero sang mga mamalidha ang nagboto agud ideklarar nga “sufficient in substance” ang fourth impeachment complaint.
Bong Suntay lamang ang nagboto kontra sa fourth impeachment complaint nga gin-file ni Atty.
Nathaniel Cabrera kag gin-endorso ni Manila Rep.
Sa idalom sang House Rules sang 19th Congress nga gin-adoptar sang 20th Congress, hatagan sang committee si Duterte sang kopya sang complaints kag i-require ini nga mag-file sang sabat sa sulod sang 10 ka calendar days.
Sunod, magapasa man sang reply ang complainants.
Matapos mabaton ang replies, magahiwat ang committee sang hearing kag magapasa sang report sa sulod sang 60 session days.
Kaupod sang report ang formal resolution sa Committee tuhoy sa disposisyon sang complaint nga i-set para sa consideration sang House sa sulod sang ten session days humalin nga nabaton ini.
Ang ano man nga desisyon halin sa committee ang ipaidalom sa plenary consideration kag nagakinahanglan lang sang one-third nominal vote agud aprubahan ang rekomendasyon — i-impeach man ang official ukon i- dismiss ang complaints.
Kun aprubahan ang recommendation to impeach, ang resolution ang igapasa na sa Senado.
DOE, magasapol sa local oil companies kaangot sa ginaantisipar nga big-time price hike
Magasapol liwat ang mga opisyal sang Department of Energy (DOE) sa oil companies subong nga adlaw, Marso 3, bangud sa ginalantaw nga pagtimbuok sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo bangud sa krisis sa Middle East.
Suno kay DOE-Oil Industry Management Bureau Director Rino Abad, sa meeting subong nga adlaw, istoryahan ang oil price trend kag kun paano sini maapektuhan ang kada semana nga price adjustment.
Posible suno kay Abad nga maistoryahan man nga indi man pagtingubon sa kada Martes ang tuman ka dako nga price hike.
Nagpanugyan man ang ahensya sa mga tag-iya sang salakyan nga magpangita sang pumping stations nga may pinakamanubo nga presyo sang langis, bangud may mga station man suno sa ila nga nagatanyag sang piso tubtub uno-singkwenta nga discount.
Nagapakig-angot naman subong ang DOE sa Department of Transportation (DOTr) kag sa Department of Agriculture (DA) kaangot sa possible nga pag-release sang fuel subsidies.
Una na nga nagpaandam ang ahensya nga possible lab-ot sa P7 tubtub P10 kada litro ang isaka sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana bangud sang epekto sang gyera sang Israel kag US batok sa Iran.
Bangud sa amo nga gyera, gin-shutdown ang oil and gas facilities sa Middle East kag naapektuhan man ang paglabay sang mga barko sa Strait of Hormuz.
Sa bahin naman ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr., ginpahayag sini nga maga-istorya siya sa congressional leaders agud nga mahatagan siya sang otoridad nga buhinan ang excise taxes sa petroleum products.
Ginpasalig man sini nga may bastante nga suplay sang langis ang Pilipinas nga makasarang maglawig sang 50 tubtob 60 ka adlaw, bisan pa sa nagalala nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Suno sa presidente, bisan posible nga magsaka ang presyo sang langis bangod sang mga geopolitical tensions, indi dayon maapektuhan sang kakulangan sa suplay ang pungsod bangod may yara sang stockpile sang gasolina, fuel oil, kag kerosene.
Gindugang pa niya nga ang mga supplier sang petroleum products may yara man sang ila kaugalingon nga imbentaryo nga mahimo pa nila ma-release, nga magahatag sang dugang nga suplay para sa pungsod.
Pamahog ni Sara vs Marcos, ginpaanggid ni Suntay sa pamahog sa iya sang iya misis
Indi kumporme ang iban nga mga kongresista sa mga paagi ni 4th District Quezon City Rep.
Bong Suntay sa pagdepensa kay Vice President Sara Duterte kaangot sa ginaatubang sini nga mga impeachment complaints.
Gin-play kahapon sa Kamara ang isa ka parte sang online press briefing ni Sara sang Nobyembre 2024 kun sa diin nagpaandam ini nga kun ipapatay siya, naka-kontak naman siya sang hitman agud patyon si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., First Lady Liza Araneta Marcos, kag former Speaker Ferdinand Martin Romualdez.
Nagsabat si Suntay kag ginsal-ot sa eksena ang iya misis nga suno sa iya masami man nagapamahog nga patyon siya bangud gab-i na siya nagapauli.
Common sense lang suno kay Suntay nga kun seryoso gid man ang isa ka tawo kaangot sa pagpatay, indi man niya ini pag-i-anunsyo sa kalibutan.
Pahayag sini, private citizen ang asawa ni Suntay, samtang indi naman pribado nga tawo si Sara.
May gahum ang Office of the Vice President suno sa iya kaangay sang access, impluwensya, kag security resources.
Nahibaluan nga ang amo nga pahayag ni Sara sa “kill order” amo ang isa sa ginbasehan sang pag-file sang impeachment complaint batok sa iya.
Bong Suntay, ginapangayuan sang public apology kasunod sang iya komento vs Anne Curtis
Ginkondena kag ginapangayuan sang public apology si Quezon City 4th District Representative Bong Suntay kasunod sang nangin pahayag sini sa hearing sang Kamara nga ginalantaw nga isa ka pagbastos sa mga babaye.
Lakip sa nagpakamalaot sang statement ni Suntay amo si Gabriela Party List Rep.
Sarah Elago nga nagsiling nga isa ka maathag nga pagpangbastos kag pag-objectify sa mga kababainhan ang ginhimo sang kongresista.
Para naman kay House Committee on Women and Gender Equality Chairperson Ann Matibag, indi simple nga lahog ukon harmless nga komento ang ginhimo ni Suntay kundi “sexist”, makahuluya, kag wala sang lugar sa anuman nga institusyon kun sa diin dapat may respeto kag propesyonalismo.
Mangin si Quezon City Mayor Joy Belmonte ang nagtulod sa kongresista nga mangin accountable kag magpangayo sang pasensya kasunod sa amo nga statement.
Natabo ang komento ni Suntay samtang nagatutok ang deliberasyon sang House Committee on Justice sa impeachment complaints batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Gindepensahan ni Suntay si Duterte kag ang mga nagligad nga statement sini kaangay sang pag-imagine sini nga utdan sang ulo si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Diri kag ginsal-ot ni Suntay ang iya kaugalingon nga imagination.
Suno sa iya, nakit-an sini anay sa isa ka mall si Anne Curtis, kag bangud tuman ini kagwapa, may “desire” siya suno sa iya nga nabatyagan kag na-“imagine” na lang niya kun ano ang iya himuon.
Diri na kag gilayon nga nagsabat si Committee Vice Chair Ysabel Maria Zamora nga panason sa rekord ang pahayag ni Suntay, apang nagpanindugan pa si Suntay.
May yara naman sang nag-object sa amo nga manipestasyon.
Nagboto pa ang panel kun sa diin 13 ang nagpabor nga kakason sa rekord ang pahayag ni Suntay, duha ang nagboto nga indi pagkakason lakip na mismo si Suntay, kag duha naman ang nag-abstain.
Sang ulihi, nag-reklamo pa gid ang kongresista kun ngaa may gina-censor nga mga manifestation sa House hearing.
Nagpanindugan ini nga indi man imoral kag indi iligal ang iya komento.
Diri na kag nagsabat si Zamora kag ginpahanumdom pa kay Suntay nga pamuno pa lang gani sang Women’s Month apang may amo na sini nga mga komento.
Ginpaathag pa sini nga ang kaangay sini nga mga pahayag wala nagabulig agud nga masuportahan kag ma-empower ang mga kababainhan.
Apisar sang amo nga hitabo sa panel, nagpanindugan naman si Suntay nga wala siya sang sala: “Only a dirty mind can impute something which is dirty.”#
Repatriation sang mga Pilipino halin sa Middle East, impossible sa karun suno kay PBBM
Impossible sa karun ang repatriation sang mga Pilipino nga naipit sa mainit nga tensyon sa Middle East suno kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Ini ang ginpahayag sang Presidente kadungan sang press briefing sa Malacañang, may kaangtanan sa sitwasyon sang mga Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) sa Middle East.
Suno man sa record sang Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA), yara sa 1,460 ka mga Pilipino sa karun nga tion ang nagpanawagan nga makapauli sa Pilipinas, kun sa diin, may halos 586 ang naghingyo nga magpauli halin sa Dubai, 297 sa Israel, 270 sa Abu Dhabi, 231 sa Bahrain, 22 sa Jordan kag 10 sa Iran.
Ginhingyo man ni Marcos ang mga Pilipino nga temporaryo nga magsaylo sa mas hilway nga lugar agud masikyar ang ila seguridad.
Madumduman nga may narekord na ang Pilipinas nga casualty sa Israel, kun sa diin ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka Pinay caregiver nga si Marry Anne Velasquez sang Pangasinan, nga nahibaluan man nga nagadala sang iya subang kun tani nga bata sang ini ang nadalahig sa isa ka missile attack sang Iran sa Israel.
Sa pihak naman nga bahin, nagpasiguro si Department of National Defense Sec.
Gibo Teodoro, nga wala sang direkta nga pamahog sa seguridad sang Pilipinas ang nagakatabo nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Ini nga pahayag ni Secretary Teodoro ang kasunod man sang ginapahayag “wala sang basehan” nga mga huring-huring nga posible atakihun sang Iran ang Pilipinas bangud kaalyado sang pungsod ang Amerika.
Pinay caregiver nga napatay sa Israel, nagabusong sang iya subang nga bata
Natukiban nga nagabusong sang iya subang nga bata ang 32-anyos nga Pinay caregiver nga si Mary Anne Velasquez de Vera nga napatay matapos ang missile attack sang Iran sa Israel.
Suno ini sa iya previous employers nga sanday Barbara Wachspress kag Janice Prawer nga amo ang una sini nga gin-obrahan sang nag-abot siya sa Tel Aviv.
Espesyal para sa duha si Mary Anne nga gintawag nila nga “angel on Earth.”
Nag-abot si Mary Anne sa Israel sang 2019 kag ang una sini nga nangin alaga amo ang iloy nanday Wachspress kag Pawer nga si Doris Gurin nga isa ka former nurse.
Suno kanday Wachspress kag Prawer, nag-alang-alang pa anay ang ila iloy nga magkuha sang live-in carer kag ang kaupod lamang sini amo ang iya ido nga Shih Tzu nga si Wally.
Sang ulihi, sang nagdesisyon na ini nga kinahanglan gid man sini sang caregiver, naglantaw sila sa potensyal nga makuha nila, kag palareho man sila nga nagpili kay De Vera bangud nagpanugid ini nga isa siya ka “puppy-lover.”
Na-ospital anay si Gurin kag na-infect sang coronavirus.
Sang ulihi, nagtaliwan gid si Gurin bangud sa COVID-related complications, apang nagpabilin nga suod si de Vera sa pamilya sini.
Suno sa mag-utod, nabatian nila ang balita nga napatay si Mary Anne paagi man sa isa ka Filipino national nga suod man sa ila.
“I couldn’t absorb it,” pahayag naman ni Prawer.
Pahayag nila, nalugpayan sila kun ila panumdumon ang ginhambal anay ni De Vera sa lubong ni Gurin sadtong 2021: “She said, ‘Until we meet again, and I’ll continue to take care of you in the afterlife.'”
Nahibaluan nga tumandok sang Basista, Pangasinan si De Vera.
Siya ang una nga Filipino casualty sa Israel sang nag-ibwal ang tension batok sa Iran sang weekend.
Nakumpirma ang iya identity paagi sa biometric records sa Abu Kabir Forensic Institute.
Naga-trabaho man ang bana ni de Vera sa Israel, kag ini mismo ang positibo nga nag-identify sa bangkay sang iya asawa.
Ginapahayag nga ginabuligan sini ang iya alaga nga makasaylo sa bomb shelter, apang antes pa man sila makapanago, naigo na ini sang shrapnel sang nagtupa nga bomba sa ila apartment sa Tel Aviv.
Ang missile attacks sang Iran amo ang ila pagtimalos kasunod sang una nga pag-atake sang US kag Israel sadtong Sabado nga amo ang nagpatay sa Supreme Leader kag senior military officials sang Tehran.#
Ginamo sa Middle East, ginalantaw nga makaapekto sa Philippine exports
Nagpaandam ang grupo sang Philippine exporters nga magatimbuok ang presyo sang gatong amo man ang balayran sa shipping pananglitan magdaku pa ang tension sa Middle East.
(Philexport), ang pagsaka sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo kag ang disruptions sa ruta sang aircraft kag barko nga nagakarga sang exports amo ang duha sa nagapangina nga risgo dala sini nga tension sa tunga sang US, Israel, kag Iran.
Vulnerable ang Pilipinas sa fuel price hikes suno sa grupo, kag nagakahulugan ini nga magasaka man ang balayran sang exporters para sa produksyon, pagbyahe, kag logistics.
Gindugang man sang grupo nga ang posible nga kinahanglan magpasaka sang shipping rates amo ang export sectors kaangay sang electronics, garments, processed food, kag furniture.
Magluwas diri, may posible nga saka man sa insurance premiums kag mas malawig nga transit times bangud lainon na naman ang alagyan ukon ruta sang mga barko.
Nagpangabay naman ang Philexport sa gobyerno nga i-monitor gid ang developments kag maghimo dayon sang mga tikang nga maproteksyunan ang exporters sa possible nga disruptions.
Matandaan nga nagtingob-pwersa ang US kag Israel sa pagbomba sa Iran nga nagpatay sa ila Supreme Leader.
Nagbalos ang Tehran kag ginbombahan ang US bases sa Middle East.#
Mga Pinoy sa Israel, nahangawa bangud sa na-rekord nga casualties nga yara na mismo sa bomb shelters
Nagakahangawa ang mga Pilipino sa Israel bangud bisan diin na lang ang gina-target sang Iran bilang balos sa nauna nga pagpang-atake nga ginhimo sang pwersa sang Israel kag Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Suno kay Bombo International Correspondent Allan Magullado, tumandok sang Maasin kag subong naga-trabaho sa Jerusalem, antes siya mag-report sa Bombo Radyo, nabatian pa sini ang padayon nga pagsinigabong kag pag-uwang sa ila palibot.
Pahayag sini, ini ang una nga bes nga na-eksperyensyahan niya nga naglab-ot na sa Jerusalem ang gina-target sang Iranian missiles.
Tag-damo man nga missiles ang ginapadala sang Iran suno kay Magullado agud indi ma-intercept sang iron dome sang Israel.
Magluwas diri, may mga napatay naman ang ballistic missile nga siyam ka mga tawo, kag pila sa casualties ang yara pa mismo sa bomb shelter.
May mga missing man kag napilasan lakip na ang kabataan sa Beit Shemesh.
Tubtub naman sa walo ka mga puluy-an kag bomb shelters ang naguba sa pagpang-atake, kag sandig sa awtoridad sang Jerusalem, halos katunga sang mga napatay ang yara mismo sa shelter apang nag-collapse ang atop rason nga nadalahig sila.
Apisar sang mga casualties sa bomb shelter, nagapadayon sa pagpanawagan ang Israel Defense Forces nga magkadto gid sa bomb shelter kag safe rooms agud makaluwas sa katalagman samtang mataas pa ang tension.
Napaidalom subong ang bilog nga Israel sa state of emergency.#
Israel, ginpakamalaot ang pag-atake sang Iran pati sa civilian buildings
Ginpakamalaot sang Israeli Foreign Ministry ang ginhimo sang Iran nga pagpuntariya pati sa civilian buildings nga rason kun ngaa napatay ang isa ka Filipina caregiver nga si Mary Anne Velazquez de Vera sa Tel Aviv.
Suno kay Oren Marmorstein, spokesperson sang Israeli Foreign Ministry, ang gin-igo sang Iran amo ang building kun sa diin may nagapuyo nga kabataan kag mga tigulang.“This is a civilian building.
Pahayag sini, ang ginahimo sang Tehran nga pagpangpatay sa mga sibilyan ang baliskad naman sa ginahimo sang Israel nga nagaguba suno sa iya sa military sites lamang.
Ginhimo ini sang Iran suno sa iya indi lamang sa Israel kundi sa walo ka mga pungsod sa Middle East.
Nahibaluan nga nagtaliwan si de Vera bangud sa madamo nga pilas nga iya naangkon bangud sa pag-apok sang shrapnels halin sa bomba nga nag-igo sa ila apartment.
Sang amo nga tion, ginabuligan sini ang iya alaga nga makasaylo sa bomb shelter.
Ang pagpaulan sang Iran sang missiles kag drones ang kabahin sang ila pagtimalos matapos nga nag-atake ang Israel kag Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga amo ang nagpatay sa ila 86-anyos nga Supreme Leader.#
Pinay caregiver sa Israel, patay sa missile attack sang Iran
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka Filipina caregiver sa Israel sa tunga sang nagasaka nga tension sa Middle East.
kag sang embahada sang Pilipinas sa Israel.
Ginkilala ang biktima nga si Mary Anne Velazquez de Vera, 32-anyos, tumandok sang Basista, Pangasinan nga nagatrabaho sa Israel halin sang 2019.
Nagpakig-unong naman si Marcos kasunod sang masubo nga balita.
Pahayag sini, ginbuligan sang caregiver ang alaga sini nga makasaylo sa bomb shelter, apang antes pa man sila makapanago, naigo na ini sang shrapnel sang nagtupa nga bomba sa ila apartment sa Tel Aviv.
“Siya po ay isang caregiver sa Israel na tinutulungan ang kanyang alaga para dalhin sa bomb shelter ngunit hindi na po naka-abot sa bomb shelter at inabutan na sila bago sila nakarating,” suno sa presidente.
“Siya ay namatay dahil tinamaan ng shrapnel ng mga bumagsak na bomba.”
Nagpasalig naman ang presidente nga ihatag ang tanan nga bulig kag kinahanglanon sang pamilya.
“Lahat po ng tulong na kakailanganin ng kanilang pamilya ay ihahatid ng ating pamahalaan,” dugang sini.
Nagpalab-ot man sang simpatiya si Ambassador Aileen Mendiola sa pamilya kag ginpasalig man ang full assistance halin sa gobyerno.
NUP, nagduso sang Anti-‘Cong-tractor’ Bill
Nagduso ang National Unity Party (NUP) sang isa ka hagna nga may tinutuyo nga ma-ban ang mga kongresista nga mag-engage sa mga infrastructure contracts sang gobyerno.
Suno kay Ronaldo Puno, House Deputy Speaker kag NUP chairman, ang ila proposal amo ang Anti-‘Cong-tractor’ Bill nga may katuyoan nga mapauntat ang mga ginpahayag “cong-tractors” nga nagaserbe bilang government contractors sa pila ka mga proyekto sang pungsod.
Sa idalom sa sini nga hagna, ang mga kongresista kag ang ila pamilya tubtob fourth degree of consanguinity ukon affinity, ang ginadumilian nga magkuha sang mga infrastructure kag construction contracts sa mga government agencies, ilabi na sa Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH).
Ginpakigbahin pa ni Puno nga kun ini amo ang maaprubahan, dako ang posibilidad nga makakas ang isa ka mamalidha bilang myembro sang House of Representatives kun ini amo ang madakpan nga nagalapas sa layi.
Nahibaluan nga pending pa sa gihapon ang nasambit nga proposal, apang nakabatun na ini snag suporta halin sa 130 ka mga kongresista.
Madumduman nga sang nagligad nga 2025, may ara sang mga natukiban ginpahayag ‘Cong-tractors’ ukon kongresista nga isa man ka kontraktor ang involved sa palpak nga mga flood control projects sa pungsod.
Malacañang, ginpanginwala ang mga impormasyon nga na-ospital na naman si Marcos
Ginpanginwala sang Malacañang ang nagalapta nga mga impormasyon sa social media nga gindala na naman sa ospital si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Claire Castro, may private meeting pa kaina si Marcos kag maayo ang kondisyon sang lawas sini.
Nagapadayon ang presidente sa iya nga official duties suno kay Castro, apang wala na ini sang dugang nga detalye nga ginhatag.
Sang nagligad nga bulan, ginkumpirma sang Malacañang nga na-diagnose si Marcos nga may diverticulitis ukon ang inflammation sang diverticula ukon small pockets sa colon.
Sang amo nga tion, ginlimitahan ang public engagements sang presidente agud nga makapahuway ini ka maka-recover.
Talalupangdon man nga nagniwang ang chief executive sa duha ka semana nga wala ini nakit-an sa publiko apang ginklaro sini nga bangud ini sa iya diet nga ginlimitahan lang sa sabaw.
Gintawag man sang 68-anyos nga presidente nga “highly exaggerated” ang mga rumor kaangot sa iya kamatayon.
Naghatag man ini anay sang mensahe nga indi dapat ma-excite ang mga luyag nga maglayas siya sa posisyon.
Hangkat ni Kaufman kun imbestigaran man sang ICC ang ‘vigilante killings’ sa Marcos admin, ginsabat sang prosekusyon
Ginsabat sang prosekusyon ang pamangkot sang defense kun may maga-imbestigar man bala sa “vigilante killings” nga nagakatabo sa idalom sang Marcos administration.
Sang Huwebes sang gab-i, matandaan nga sa isa ka bahin sang presentasyon sang defense counsel nga si Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman, ginsiling sini nga nagpadayon man ang pagpamatay sang state forces bisan nga wala na si Duterte sa pwesto.
Ginpresentar pa sini ang data kun pila ang mga kaso sang pagpamatay sa idalom sang Marcos administration, kag ginpamangkot sini ang prosecutors kun imbestigaran man bala nila ini.
Ginhingalitan naman ni Prosecution senior trial lawyer Julian Nicholls ang iya tion sa closing statement kagab-i agud nga sabton ang pamangkot ni Kaufman.
Suno kay Nicholls, si Duterte mismo nga kliyente ni Kaufman ang may kahimuan kun ngaa indi na sila maka-imbestigar bangud sang pag-withdraw sang Pilipinas sa Rome Statute.
Matandaan nga sang 2018 sang gin-anunsyo ni Duterte ang pag-withdraw sa ICC nga naka-base sa The Hague matapos nga gin-umpisahan sang tribunal ang imbestigasyon sa iya nga drug war.
Marso 2019 naman sang pormal nga nag-withdraw ang pungsod sa Rome Statute.
Apisar sadto, ginapanindugan sang korte nga may hurisdiksyon pa ini sa mga krimen nga ginaalegar nahimo ni Duterte sa tunga-tunga sang Nobyembre 2011 kag Marso 2019 nga amo ang naga-cover sang termino ni Duterte bilang mayor sa Davao City kag bilang presidente sang Pilipinas.
Sa closing statement sang prosekusyon kagab-i, nangin mabakod man ang rebuttal sini batok sa mga naratibo sang defense, particular na sa isyu sang death squad.
Porsyon sang closing statement ni Kaufman, ginapakakas sang prosekusyon sa ICC record
Indi kumporme ang prosecutors nga magtinir sa record sang International Criminal Court (ICC) Pre-Trial Chamber I ang kabahin sang closing statement sang defense counsel nga wala naman sang labot sa ila nga mga argumento sa confirmation of charges hearing.
Antes pormal nga nagtakop ang proceedings sa Pre-Trial Chamber I kagab-i, nagtindog si senior trial lawyer Julian Nicholls kag nag-apelar sa judges nga indi na pag-ilakip sa record ang porsyon sang statement ni Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman nga nagapanugid sang ila mga na-istoryahan ni former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Ang ginatumod sini amo ang gin-istorya ni Kaufman nga nabaton na ni Duterte ang iya nga kapalaran kag pati ang posibilidad nga mapatay na lamang ini sa presuhan.
Suno pa sa defense counsel, nagpahayag ang 80-anyos nga anay presidente nga isa siya ka tampad nga alagad sang mga Pilipino, kag luyag niya nga dumdumon siya sa amo nga kinaiya.
Sandig pa sa ginsugid ni Kaufman, nag-istorya si Duterte nga nahimo na sini ang iya nga katungdanan kag nabilin na ang iya nga legasiya ukon marka.
Gintapos naman ni Kaufman ang iya closing statement sa confirmation hearing paagi sa pagpangabay sa judges nga indi pag-i-confirm ang bisan isa sa mga kaso batok kay Duterte.
Gin-apelar sini sa chamber nga tugutan na nga makapauli ang former president sa iya puluy-an sa Davao City.
Pahayag naman ni Nicholls halin sa Office of the Prosecution, indi dapat mag-testify si Kaufman para kay Duterte, bangud nagpamalibad na gani ini nga magkadto sa korte agud magtambong sa proceedings.
Nagsabat naman si Kaufman nga indi man testimonya ang iya ginhambal, kundi isa lang ka paathag kun ngaa wala nagkadto sa hearing ang former president.
Nahibaluan nga sa pagtakop sang confirmation hearing, may 60 ka adlaw ang judges agud magdesisyon kun ano ang himuon kasunod sang mga argumento kag presentasyon sang defense, prosecution, kag common legal representatives sang drug war victims.#
Kagab-i, ginhatagan sang tyempo ang kada partido — ang prosekusyon, ang common legal representatives sang drug war victims, kag ang defense — nga mapabati sa judges ang ila nga mga closing statement.
Suno kay Presiding Judge Iulia Antoanella Motoc, maga-deliberate ang chamber kag magapaguwa sang desisyon sa sulod sang 60 ka adlaw.
Ang mga senaryo nga mahimo matabo amo ang masunod:
Wala nagtambong si Duterte sa apat ka adlaw nga proceedings kag ginpakamaayo sini nga magpabilin sa detention facility.
Ang akusasyon kay Duterte amo ang crimes against humanity nga murder kag attempted murder nga ginaalegar nakomiter sini sa Pilipinas halin sang Nobyembre 1, 2011 tubtub sang Marso 16, 2019.
Nag-ugat ini sa iya nga kontrobersyal kag maduguon nga war on drugs campaign.#
Daku nga tyempo sa closing statement ni Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman sa International Criminal Court (ICC) ang iya ginpain agud i-istorya sa bilog nga kalibutan ang kahimtangan ni former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Suno sa iya, nabaton na ni Duterte ang iya nga kapalaran kag pati ang posibilidad nga mapatay na lamang ini sa presuhan.
Antes nagtakop ang confirmation hearing, nagtindog naman si senior trial lawyer Julian Nicholls kag nag-apelar sa judges nga indi na pag-ilakip sa records ang closing statement nga gin-deliver sang defense counsel.
Ang ginapakakas sini sa record amo ang parte sang statement ni Kaufman nga ginpahayag sini nga ginhambal ni Duterte.
Pahayag pa ni Nicholls, indi dapat mag-testify si Kaufman para kay Duterte, bangud nagpamalibad na gani ini nga magkadto sa korte agud magtambong sa proceedings.
Kaufman, nagreklamo sa paagi sang pag-report sang media sa iya mga argumento
Kun gintukso sang defense counsel nga si Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman ang mainstream media sa Pilipinas sa iya opening statement, wala pa ini natapos, bangud ginpuntariya sini liwat ang media sa iya closing statement sa ulihi nga adlaw sang confirmation hearing.
Ginmuno sang abogado kun paano gina-report sang media ang iya presentasyon sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Pahayag sini, ginapaguwa sang journalists nga nagahimo siya sang iya nga “political speech” kag kulang sa “substance” ang iya nga mga argumento.
Pahayag sini, maayo na lang bangud may yara sang Pre-Trial Chamber I nga amo suno sa iya ang naga-apresyar sang “presumption of innocence” kag amo ang naga-usisa sang maayo sa mga ebidensya.
Matandaan nga sa iya imbukada nga statement sang Lunes, nagpahayag si Kaufman nga ginapili lang sang media ang kontrobersyal nga mga parte sang speeches ni Duterte, kag gina-utod naman ang mga porsyon sang iya pahayag nga indi na interesante.
Pebrero 28 sang nagtakop ang confirmation of charges hearing batok kay Duterte.
May 60 ka adlaw ang judges agud magdesisyon kun ano ang himuon kasunod sang mga argumento kag presentasyon sang defense, prosecution, kag common legal representatives sang drug war victims.#
Castro, natingala sa padayun nga paglakip ni Kaufman kay PBBM sa diskusyon
Claire Castro kun ngaa padayun nga ginalakip sa diskusyon ni Atty.
Bongbong Marcos sa Confirmation of Charges hearing sa International Criminal Court bisan pa nga si Anay Presidente Rodrigo Roa Duterte ang iya kliyente.
Suno kay Castro, isa ini ka kaladlawan nga argumento kun ini amo ang iya depensa nahanungod sa mga kaso nga crimes against humanit nga ginapangatubang ni Duterte.
Ini matapos nga nagpahayag ang lead counsel ni Duterte nga si Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman nga mas madamo ang numero sang mga napatay sa idalom sang administrasyon ni Marcos kun ini amo ang ikumpara sang si Duterte pa ang yara sa posisyon.
Dugang pa ni Castro, kun may ara sang mapresentar nga ebidensya ukon basehan si Kaufman sa iya alegasyon, kinahanglan ini nga imbestigaran sang mga awtoridad.
Madumduman nga subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 27, ang ika-apat ukon ulihi nga adlaw sang Confirmation of Charges hearing ni Duterte sa International Criminal Court nga maga-umpisa ala-5 subong nga hapon.
Kaufman, namangkot sa prosecution kun imbestigaran man ang pagpamatay sa idalom sang Marcos admin
Ginpamangkot sang lead defense counsel nga si Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman ang prosekusyon sa International Criminal Court (ICC) kun imbestigaran man bala si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Ini bangud base sa presentasyon ni Kaufman, nagpadayon ang mga pagpamatay sang state forces bisan nga natapos na ang termino ni former President Rodrigo Duterte kag gindala na ini sa The Hague.
Kabahin ini sang ginmuno ni Kaufman sa ikatatlo nga adlaw sang confirmation of charges hearing batok kay Duterte nga nagapangatubang sang three counts of crimes against humanity bangud sa iya drug war.
Gingamit ni Kaufman sa iya nga presentasyon ang pagtuon halin sa University of the Philippines nga naangot sa drug-related killings sa idalom sang administrasyon ni Marcos.
Ang hearing sa ICC naga-cover lamang sa hurisdiksyon sang korte halin sang November 1, 2011 tubtub March 16, 2019.
Apang ang gingamit nga report ni Kaufman nagasiling nga sa 342 killings sang 2022, may yara sang 162 nga ginkomiter sang state agents sa idalom na sang una nga tuig ni Marcos sa pwesto.
Ini nga numero nagsaka sang 2024 suno pa kay Kaufman.
Diri na kag nagpamangkot si Kaufman kun may yara man bala sang naga-imbestigar sini halin sa ICC prosecution.
Ginkwestyon man sini ang prosekusyon kun ngaa wala na sang nagapanawagan sang “accountability” sa mga napatay sa Marcos administration.
Ini ang katapusan nga bahin sang presentasyon ni Kaufman antes nagtakop ang Session 2 sa Day 3 sang confirmation hearing para sa 90-minute break sang Pre-Trial Chamber I.#
Archbishop Socrates Villegas, nagpanawagan sa ICC nga ihatag ang hustisya sa mga biktima kag napatay sa drug war
Nagpanawagan si Lingayen-Dagupan Archbishop Socrates sa International Criminal Court (ICC) kag sa gobyerno sang Pilipinas nga ihatag ang hustisya kag pasabton ang mga tawo nga responsable sa pagpamatay kag mga krimen.
Kadungan ini sang misa sa National Shrine of Mary, Queen of Peace, Our Lady of EDSA (EDSA Shrine) bilang pagkomemorar kahapon sang 40th anniversary sang EDSA People Power Revolution.
Ginlaragway man niya nga depektibo kag palpak ang justice system sang pungsod.
Pangabay sini sa ICC, silutan ang mga murderers sang drug users nga nagpatay sa moralidad sang pungsod.
Mensahe naman sini sa Independent Commission for Infrastructure, nga natak-an na sang hulat ang mga Pilipino sa resulta sang imbestigasyon sa mga flood control scams.
Ginsita man sini ang mga government officials nga nagapamalabag sa impeachment proceedings kag ginhambalan nga mag-resign na lang.
Ginkondenar man sini ang mga Filipino sa pag-justify sa mga pagpamatay sang panahon sang drug war sang Duterte administration.
Nangabay naman ini sa mga pamatan-on nga mangin bag-o nga santo sang EDSA kag mangin kritikal sa pagpili sang ila mga lideres.
AFP, ginpasiguro ang bilog sini nga kooperasyon sa mga awtoridad sa nahanungod sa ex-Marines
Ginpasiguro sang Armed Forces of the Philippines ang bilog sini nga kooperasyon sa mga awtoridad kun magapatigayunon sang pormal nga imbestigasyon sa kontrobersyal nga flood control scam.
Kaangot ini sa klaro nga pamatuod nga indi parte sang militar nga gin-angot bilang ex-Marines.
Francel Margareth Padilla, madugay na nga wala sa serbisyo ang mga anay suldado nga nag-serbe bilang bagmen sang anay mamalidha nga si Zaldy Co.
Ginpahayag pa sang opisyal nga wala sa posisyon sang AFP ang mga nasambit nga mga indibidwal.
Nagpanindugan man ang institusyon sang transparency kag accountability kun kinahanglan ang ila nga bulig sa pag-imbestigar.
Bilang background, ginpaguwa man sang nagligad sang anay kongresista nga si Mike Defensor nga may ara sang 18 ka mga anay ex-Marines ang handa nga mag-testigo sa Ombudsman nga pabor sa mga nauna nga rebelasyon ni Master Sgt.
Orly Regala Guteza natuhoy sa floodgate irregularities.
Levito Baligod, nga nakatalana nga magsumite sang joint affidavit ang mga nasambit nga ex-Marines agud magbulig sa pagdalagan sang kaso.
Gina-trace na sang gobyerno ang duha sa mga ginpangalanan nga co-perpetrators ni anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Suno kay DILG Secretary Jonvic Remulla, bisan wala pa sang arrest warrants, gina-trace na nila ang nasambit nga mga personalidad.
Pahayag ni Remulla, duha sa co-perpetrators ni Duterte ang ginapatihan nga yara na sa Estados Unidos.
Impeachment vs VP Sara, umpisahan sa Marso 2
Natalana nga suguran sang House panel ang deliberasyon sa apat ka beripikado nga impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte sa Marso 2.
Kun matumod nga wala sang basehan kag wala sang pulos ang mga reklamo, ipa-dismiss ini paagi sa botohay sa plenaryo.
Kun mapamatud-ad naman nga ‘sufficient in form and substance’, pagaabisuhan si VP Duterte nga sabton ang mga alegasyon sa sulod sang 10 ka adlaw.
Sa tion naman nga may mapamatud-an nga “probable cause”, ini ang pagabotohan sa plenaryo.
Pagpatay kay Kian delos Santos kadungan sang drug war, ginpresentar sa ICC
Gindala sa ikaduha nga adlaw sang confirmation hearing sa International Criminal Court (ICC) ang kaso sang 17-anyos nga solterito nga si Kian Delos Santos nga ginpatay sa kasagsagan sang Duterte drug war.
Ginpatay si Kian sang Agusto 16, 2017 sa Caloocan City.
Ang amo nga insidente nagresulta sa lapnagon nga pagpakamalaot sa administrasyon rason nga temporaryo pa nga ginpauntat ang mga pulis sa drug operations.
Ginhalimbawa sang prosekusyon ang kaso ni Kian para sa third count sang kaso ni Duterte nga crimes against humanity.
Nakatutok ini sa kontrobersyal nga “Project Tokhang”.
Kaangay sa iban nga modus operandi nga ginagamit sa iban nga biktima sang barangay clearance operations, gin-identify sila paagi sa “listahan” kag ginpatay sa police operations.
Sa amo nga scheme, ginatanuman ang crime scene sang mga ebidensya kaangay sang armas, droga, ukon kwarta, kag ginapeke ang police reports agud mahambal nga lehitimo ang operasyon kag nagdepensa lamang ang mga pulis.
Ini nga padya nagadiretso sa mga pulis nga amo ang nagpatay sa target.
Three counts sang crimes against humanity ang ginapangatubang ni Duterte sa ICC kun sa diin may ginplastar nga 76 ka mga kaso sang pagpatay halin sang 2013-2018.
Ini nga record suno sa prosekusyon ang porsyon pa gid lamang ukon “mere fraction” sang linibo nga nagkalamatay sa “war on drugs” campaign sang mayor pa si Duterte tubtub nga na-eleher na bilang presidente.#
‘PRRD’ List, ginpakita sang prosekusyon sa ICC confirmation hearing
Ginpresentar sa International Criminal Court (ICC) ang “PRRD List” ukon ang listahan sang mga high-value targets ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa kasagsagan sang iya implementasyon sang drug war.
Ginpakita ini sang trial lawyer sang prosekusyon nga si Edward Jeremy sa ikaduha nga adlaw sang confirmation of charges hearing sa ICC Pre-Trial Chamber I, Pebrero 24.
Suno kay Jeremy, ini nga listahan ang mahimo kabigon nga “death list.”
Gingamit sang prosecution nga listahan agud i-establisar nga responsable si Duterte sa kaso nga pagpamatay kag tuyo nga pagpamatay sa 59 ka mga indibidwal.
Sa sini nga numero, 14 ang “high-value targets” nga ginpatay sang 2016 kag 2017.
Ginpatay man ang 43 ka iban pa kag gintuyo patyon ang duha ka mga indibidwal sa barangay-level operations sang pulis sang 2016 tubtub 2018.
simply because they may have an addiction to drugs,” suno pa sa trial lawyer samtang padayon ang iya presentasyon.
Ginsugid man sang prosecution sa judges nga pila ka beses nga ginpadayaw pa ni Duterte ang iya drug matrix.
Wala man ginpalampuwas sang prosecution ang lahog ni former President Rodrigo Duterte nga mangin maayo nga negosyo ang punerarya kadungan sang iya nga pagpatuman sang drug war.
Sa amo nga statement, nagpahayag si Duterte nga kun maghina na ang negosyo sa punerarya, hambalon lang sini ang mga pulis nga dasig-dasigon ang pagpamatay.
Three counts of crimes against humanity ang ginapangatubang ni Duterte sa ICC kun sa diin may ginplastar nga 76 ka mga kaso sang pagpatay halin sang 2013-2018.
ICC investigators, ginaakusahan nga nagbaton sang minilyon nga suhol
Gin-akusahan sang 18 ka mga anay katapo sang Philippine Marines nagbaton sang minilyon nga suhol ang mga imbestigador sang ICC halin kanday anay Senador Antonio Trillanes kag anay Rep.
Sa isa ka event sa Club Filipino, ginpakigbahin ni Atty.
Levi Baligod ang affidavit sang mga suldado nga nagasiling nga sila mismo ang nagdul-ong sang kwarta kay Trillanes agud gastuhan ang imbestigasyon sang ICC batok kay anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Suno sa mga suldado, bilang mga executive assistants ni Co, ginmanduan sila nga magbaylo sang duha ka maleta nga nagaunod sang tag-P56 milyon.
Gindugang pa nila nga sang nag-abot ang mga ICC investigators sang Disyembre 2023, si Trillanes ang suno sa ila amo ang nagbayad sang tanan nga hotel accommodation, pagkaon, salakyan, kag iba pa nga gasto.
Nagpamalibad si Baligod nga ihatag ang kopya sang affidavit.
Apang magagwa ini pagkatapos nga mapasaka ang reklamo sa Office of the Ombudsman.
Torre, wala sang paghinulsol sa pag-aresto kay Duterte
Nicolas Torre III nga nangin instrumento ini sa pag-aresto kay anay Presidente Rodrigo Roa Duterte.
Suno kay Torre nga general manager subong sang Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA), gintungdan lang niya ang iya opisyal nga responsibilidad kag wala siya sang personal nga motibo.
Madumduman nga gin-aresto si Duterte sang Marso 2025 sa Manila sa idalom sang arrest warrant nga gin-isyu sang International Criminal Court (ICC).
Ang amo nga pag-aresto ang nangin dalan kun ngaa napreso subong si Duterte sa The Hague.
Subong nga adlaw natalana ang confirmation of charges hearing kay Duterte sa Pre-Trial Chamber sang tribunal.
Iga-determinar sang tatlo ka babaye nga judges sang chamber kun may bastante nga ebidensya agud ma-establisar ang substantial grounds agud matum-ok si Duterte sa pagkumiter sang crimes against humanity.
ICC confirmation hearing sa Duterte case, magaumpisa na subong nga adlaw
Matabo ini sa 10:00 sa aga (The Hague local time) sa Pre-Trial Chamber I ukon alas singko sa hapon oras naman sa Pilipinas.
Pangunahan ini nanday Presiding Judge Iulia Antoanella Motoc kag duha ka iban pa nga judges nga sanday Reine Adélaïde Sophie Alapini-Gansou kag María del Socorro Flores Liera.
Ginklaro sang korte nga indi pa ini trial kundi pre-trial hearing pa lamang.
Ang tuyo sang confirmation of charges hearing amo ang pagtumod kun may yara bala sang bastante nga ebidensya agud maestablisar ang substantial grounds agud patihan nga si Duterte nakahimo gid man sang mga krimen nga amo ang nakabutang sa akusasyon.
Bisan nga nakapasa na ang prosecution sang lista sang mga ebidensya sang nag-apply sila sang warrant of arrest, diri pa lamang nga stage diskusyunan ang mga merito sang kaso.
Apat ka adlaw ang hearings kag ginpahat-pahat sa tatlo ka sessions.
Pagkabukas sang confirmation hearings subong nga aga, may yara sang opening statement halin sa prosecution, kag pagasundan sang break.
PST) amo naman ang opening statements halin sa common legal representatives sang victims kag ang opening statement sang defense.
PST) ang ginpain naman para sa submissions sang prosecution sa merito sang kaso.
Antes sini nga hearing, natabo ang initial appearance ni Duterte sa chamber sang Marso 14, 2025.
Sang 8 Setyembre 2025, gin-postpone sang chamber ang confirmation hearing nga una nga ginplano nga magsugod sa Setyembre 23, 2025.
Ini kasunod sang Adjournment Request sang Defense team bahin sa ikaayong-lawas ni Duterte.
Sang Enero 26, 2026, ginpahayag sang Pre-Trial Chamber I nga si Duterte dapat kag fit nga magpartisipar sa pre-trial proceedings.
Didto kag gin-anunsyo ang pagsugod sang confirmation of charges hearing sa Pebrero 23.
Apisar nagapanindugan ang Defense nga maluya kag malipaton ang 80-anyos nga former president, nagdesisyon ang Chamber nga dayunon ini bangud sa nakabutang sa report sang medical experts nga makahangop pa si Duterte pati sa mga kaso nga iya ginaatubang kag mga ebidensya nga kalakip sini.#
6 Filipino lawyers, ginpadala sang pamilya Duterte agud magtambong sa ICC confirmation hearing
Ginpadala sang pamilya Duterte ang anum ka mga Pilipino nga abogado agud nga magtambong sa confirmation of charges hearing batok kay former President Rodrigo Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Sa statement sang Duterte Family, ginpahayag nga maga-upod sa proceedings ang Filipino legal team agud masiguro nga ma-representar sang husto ang former president.
Sa press statement sang pamilya, wala ginkumpirma kun magatambong man sila sa hearing ukon kun sin-o sa ila ang magakadto sa The Hague, Netherlands, apang ila ginklaro nga wala nagpasugot ang ICC nga mabisita nila si Duterte samtang padayon ang hearings.
Ang gintugtan lamang sang korte amo ang pagtawag pamaagi sa telepono.
Ginpasalamatan man sang pamilya Duterte ang Filipino lawyers sa ila suporta kag ang Filipino community sa The Hague.
Sandig kay Panelo, ginalauman nga magapungko sila sa public gallery kag magalantaw sa proceedings nga maga-umpisa 5:00 karon sa hapon oras sa Pilipinas.
May hearings man sa buwas, Martes, sa Huwebes, kag sa Byernes.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom sang Rome Statute, ang ICC-accredited lawyers lamang ang opisyal nga maka-representar sa isa ka suspek ukon mangin sa mga biktima sa proceedings sang korte sa The Hague.
Ang head legal counsel ni Duterte amo ang British-Israeli lawyer nga si Nicholas Kaufman kag paga-updan sang veteran trial lawyer nga si Dov Jacobs nga amo ang associate counsel.
Landslide sa South Cotabato, tuga sang mining operations
Indi sa gihapon maagyan ang naguba nga dalan sa bahin sang Sitio El Dulog, Barangay Ned, Lake Sebu, South Cotabato, matapos ang nagluntad nga landslide sang Pebrero 13, dala sang mamunog nga ulan kag padayun nga coal mining operations sa lugar.
Apektado man diri amo ang masobra 100 families nga nagahingyo sang relocation site bangud sa dala nga peligro sang landslide.
Nahibaluan nga nagpatawag na sang special session sa Pebrero 23, 2026 si South Cotabato Vice Governor Arthur Dodo Pingoy, nahanungod sa pagbulig sang Provincial Government sa mga residente nga naapektuhan.
Ipatawag man sang Sangguniang Panlalawigan sang nasambit nga probinsya ang Department of Energy kag iban pa nga ahensya nahanungod sa coal mining operation sa lugar.
Sa subong, nag-ubra sang temporaryo nga alagyan ang mga residente sa lugar.
GSIS, naglunsar sang microloan program nga “Ginhawa Go” para sa mga empleyado sang gobyerno
Naglunsar ang Government Service Insurance System (GSIS) sang bag-o nga microloan program nga ginatawag nga “Ginhawa Go” para sa mga empleyado sang gobyerno.
Ginatuyo sang programa nga mahatagan sang madasig kag masarangan nga pautang ang mga miyembro sa oras sang kinahanglanon.
Sa sini nga programa, ang mga kwalipikado nga miyembro sang GSIS ang sarang makapangutang halin ₱1,000 tubtob ₱50,000.
Ang mga short-term loan nga tubtob ₱4,000 sarang mabayaran sa sulod sang 30, 60, ukon 90 ka adlaw, samtang ang mas mataas nga kantidad halin ₱5,000 tubtob ₱50,000 ang hulugan halin tatlo (3) tubtob 24 ka bulan, nga may interes nga 6% tubtob 7% kada tuig.
Kaupod man sa programa ang insurance nga maga-cover sang nabilin nga balance sang utang kun magtaliwan ang borrower, basta updated ang iya account.
Go, makabulig ini nga programa agud malikawan sang mga empleyado sang gobyerno ang pagpalapit sa mga nagapautang nga may mataas nga interes.
Ang aplikasyon ginahimo lamang paagi sa GSIS Touch app kag automatic nga ginakaltas sa sweldo ang bayad sa utang
Ellen Adarna, gin-athag nga wala siya sang plano mag-reconcile sa anay nobyo nga si John Lloyd Cruz
Gin-athag ni Ellen Adarna nga wala siya sang plano mag-reconcile sa anay nobyo nga si John Lloyd Cruz kag mas maayo na lang nga mag-updanay sila sa pag-atipan sa ila anak nga si Elias.
Suno kay Ellen, maayo kag hilway ang co-parenting arrangement kag wala sang gamo.
Ginpakigbahin man sang aktres ang child support nga iya nabaton halin kay John Lloyd para sa ila bata nga si Elias.
Ini nga pahayag sang actress ang iya ginpagwa matapos ang mga huring-huring nga liwat nga nagaayuhay ang ila buot ni Cruz.
Dugang pa sini nga si John Lloyd ang nagapresentar sa iya nga maghatag sang bulig pinansyal sa kinahanglanon sang iya bata sa actress.
NU, ginpakita ang abilidad matapos nalutos ang FEU sa UAAP SEASON 88 women’s volleyball
Nalutos sang three-peat-seeking Lady Bulldogs ang Lady Tamaraws sa score nga 17-25, 16-25, 25-19, 25-21, 15-12, sa ila una nga five-set nga hampang sa karun nga season sa Mall of Asia Arena.
Si Arah Panique ang nanguna sa NU nga may career-high 27 nga puntos, samtang si Camilla Lamina ang nangibabaw sa open nga may 19 set kag 3 digs.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginpangunahan ni Gerz Petallo ang FEU nga may 14 puntos, apang wala sini nadepensahan ang ila team sa late-game advantage, rason nga nadugangan ang ila pagkalutos sa nasambit nga season.
Gin-export nga mga produkto nga himo sa Ube sang Pilipinas, nagdangat sa 3.06 USD million sang 2025
Nagdangat sa 3.06 milyon US Dollar ang balor sang ube kag mga produkto nga himo sa ube nga na-export halin sa Pilipinas sang 2025, bangud sa mataas nga global demand sa natural nga pagkaon, Asian flavors, kag iban pa nga gamit sa pagkaon.
Suno sa Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), nag-umwad ang export sang processed ube pareho sang powder, puree, halaya, kag flavor extracts, kun sa diin nagapanguna ang merkado sang Middle East, Estados Unidos, United Kingdom, kag Italy.
Maobserbaran man ang mataas nga interes sang mga foreign companies sa paggamit sang ube sa ice cream, baked goods, confectionery, specialty beverages, kag mga ready-to-eat desserts.
Paathag ni DTI Secretary Cristina Roque nga ginapakita sang pag-export sang ube ang kapasidad sang pungsod nga himuon nga value-added kag competitive ang tradisyonal nga produkto nga agrikultura, kag nagahatag ini sang oportunidad sa mga Filipino exporters kag mangunguma.
Ginpabaskog sang DTI ang suporta sa sektor paagi sa pagpaayo sang kalidad, pagpabakod sang supply chains, kag bulig sa marketing agud masiguro ang sustainable nga kompetisyon sa international market.
Abante, kumpyansa nga bastante ang numero nga maga-impeach kay Sara Duterte sa Kamara
nga may bastante nga numero ang Kamara kag sarang nga mapasaka sa Senado ng impeachment complaint batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Suno kay Abante, nakahibalo siya nga may yara sang iban nga kongresista nga nagapang-alang-alang na bangud malapit na lang ang eleksyon, apang wala siya ginakulbaan suno sa iya bangud positibo siya nga makalusot ang complaint.
Pero sa aking papanaw, wala akong anumang kakaba-kaba na papasa ‘yan,” suno kay Abante.
So palagay ko makukuha namin ‘yun,” pahayag pa sini.
Si Abante kag si House Deputy Speaker Francisco Paolo Ortega V ang nag-endorso sang ikaapat nga impeachment complaint batok sa vice president sang Pebrero 18.
Gin-file ang amo nga complaint inoras lang matapos gindeklarar ni Duterte ang iya desisyon nga magpadalagan sa pagka-presidente sa 2028.
Kun makalab-ot na ang articles of impeachment sa Senado, nagalaum si Abante nga maapresyar sang mga senador ang facts, ebidensya, kag substance sang impeachment complaint.
Matandaan nga na-impeach anay si Duterte sa Kamara sang Pebrero 5, 2025 matapos nga 215 ka mga kongresista ang nagpirma sa ikaapat man nga complaint batok sa iya.
Padilla, gin-isa-isa ang rason kun ngaa bukas ini nga magpadalagan sa pagka-bise presidente
Gin-isa-isa ni senator Robin Padilla ang rason kun ngaa bukas ini nga magpadalagan sa pagka-bise presidente sa masunod nga eleksyon.
Ang pinakadako sini nga rason amo nga kun itulod ini ni former President Rodrigo Roa Duterte.
Suno sa iya indi gid sini pagpamalibadan ang anay presidente.
Suno kay Padilla, si Duterte lamang ang maka-engganyo sa iya nga sudlan ang posisyon sang pagka bise-presidente kaangay sang ginpangabay man ini sang una nga magsulod sa politika kag magpadalagan bilang senador.
Sang ginpamangkot ini kun handa ini sa mas mataas nga posisyon, suno kay Padilla, ginhanda man siya nga handa sa tanan.
Suno pa sa Senador, indi man amo gid kabudlay ang obra sang vice president bangud nakatutok lang sa advocacy work ang gina-obra sini.
Dugang pa niya, daw kaangay nga ”spare tire” lang ini kag masarangan gid sini ang nasambit nga posisyon.
Ginpahayag pa ni Padilla nga apisar may ara sang ”hierarchy” ukon pila nga mas nauna sa iya nga mga politiko sa kampo ni Duterte kaangay ni Imee Marcos, Alan Peter Cayetano, Bong Go, Ronald dela Rosa, suno sa iya, batunon sini ang bisan ano nga kritisismo kun magpadayon ini sa pagdalagan.
Ginklaro man sini nga 100% ini nga magasuporta sa kampanya sang Duterte sa 2028.
Anay VP Robredo, gin-athag nga indi pagdal-on ni PBBM ang istorya-pulitika sa iya pagbisita sa Naga
Gin-athag ni anay Vice President Leni Robredo kag subong Naga City Mayor nga indi pagdal-on ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
ang istorya-pulitika sa iya pagbisita subong nga adlaw sa Naga.
Ginalauman nga magakit-anay ang duha subong nga weekend para sa implementasyon sang Oplan Kontra Baha sa Naga City, Camarines Sur.
Nahibaluan nga nagtuhaw ang possible nga alyansa sa tunga ni Marcos kag Robredo halin sang gin-anunsyo ang ila nga meeting subong nga adlaw.
Claire Castro, ang naka-schedule nga pagbisita ni Marcos sa Naga City subong nga adlaw sang Sabado, Pebrero 21, may kaangtanan sa mga tikang sang gobyerno batok sa pagbaha.
Suno pa kay Castro, indi pamulitika kag tuman pa kalayo ang eleksyon.
Nagpanawagan man ang Malacañang sa publiko nga untatan na ang magahod nga mga ekspekulasyon sa politika bangud naga-focus ang mga opisyal sa ila tagsa ka mga trabaho agud indi ang mga ini ma-distract sa tagsa nila ka mga obligasyon.
Gin-athag man ni Robredo nga malayo pa sa iya nga pinsar ang pulitika bangud nga nagatutok siya subong sa mga problema sang iya syudad.
Ini nga statement ni Robredo ang kasunod man sang mga espekulasyon nga siya ang makasumpong ni Vice President Sara Duterte sa presidential elections sa 2028.
Pahayag sini, tuman pa ka layo ang eleksyon, kag wala pa gani siya naka-isa ka tuig sa iya posisyon subong kag sa iya obligasyon sa iya nag syudad.
DOJ, ginkumpirma nga wala nadayon ang filing of counter-affidavit ni former senator Revilla bangud sa development sang NBI
Ginkumpirma sang Department of Justice nga wala nadayon ang naka-schedule nga filing sang counter-affidavit ni former senator Bong Revilla sang Pebrero 19 kaangot sa plunder complaint.
Ini bangud sa bag-o nga development sa pagpanguna sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI).
Polo Martinez, nag-file ang NBI sang motion agud malakip ang dugang nga mga respondents sa kaso.
Bangud sa motion sang NBI, gin-postpone sang DOJ ang preliminary investigation sa Marso 3, 2026 agud mahatagan sang oras ang bag-o nga gindugang nga respondents nga makasabat.
Una na nga gin-request sang NBI nga dal-on ang apat ka mga anay engineers sang DPWH nga nakuha sa National Capital Region bilang dugang nga respondents.
Suno kay Martinez, gina-angot sang NBI ang apat pa ka mga engineers sa isa ka conspiracy nga gina-angot sa plunder case.
Samtang, gin-athag naman sang DOJ nga ang malversation complaint kaangot sang plunder case batok kay Bong Revilla nga ginsumite na para sa resolution sang Enero 12, 2026.
Ginklaro man ni Martinez nga kada reklamo ang may ara sang kaugalingon nga period para sa resolution nga naka-base sa patakaran sang Department of Justice.
Request ni Duterte nga i-disqualify ang mga abogado sang drug war victims, ginbasura sang ICC
Suno sa ICC Pre-Trial Chamber I, napaslawan ang defense team nga makapakita kun ano ang ila ginasiling nga “impediment to representation” ukon “conflict of interest.”
Pahayag pa sang Chamber, ang alegasyon sang kampo ni Duterte ang lunsay “speculative and hypothetical” kag wala sang nalab-ot sa Code of Professional Conduct nga nagakinahanglan sa pagkakas sa mga abogado.
Matandaan nga gin-appoint sang ICC ang duha ka abogado nga sanday Atty.
Gintugtan man sang ICC ang Office of Public Counsel for Victims nga maghatag sang isa pa ka counsel, rason nga naka-upod si Nicolene Arcaina bilang case manager.
Sang Pebrero 11, nag-request ang defense team nga i-disqualify ang amo nga mga abogado kag i-revoke ang appointment nanday Andres kag Butuyan kag i-suspend ang ila access sa case record.
Antes sini nga desisyon sang ICC sa common legal representatives, ginkumpirma man kaina sang hapon nga gin-aprubahan sang korte ang request ni Duterte nga indi ini magtambong sa confirmation of charges hearing.
ICC, ginpasugtan si Duterte nga indi magtambong sa hearing sa confirmation of charges
Magapadayon ang hearing bisan wala ang 80-anyos nga former president.
Nag-desisyon ang judges nga valid ang waiver ni Duterte kag natumod nga nahangpan sini ang iya kinamatarong kag ang legal nga mga kunsekwensya.
Ginklaro man sang Chamber nga boluntaryo ang pag-absent ni Duterte sa hearing kag wala sang kaangtanan sa iya nga ikaayong lawas, bangud na-resolba na ang isyu kag nadeklarar na siya nga fit sa pagpartisipar sa proceedings sandig sa medical examination nga gin-conduct sang independent panel of experts.
Duterte,” suno sa Chamber sa desisyon nga ginpaguwa subong nga Pebrero 20.
Ginmanduan man sang korte ang kampo ni Duterte, ang prosecutors, kag ang common legal representatives sang mga drug war victim nga i-indicate kun may filings nga dapat isapubliko ukon dapat i-redact ukon tabunan.
Sandig sa schedule sang ICC, matabo ang confirmation of charges hearing sa Pebrero 23, Pebrero 24, Pebrero 26, kag Pebrero 27.
Matandaan nga nagpahayag si Duterte nga indi na siya mag-attend sa legal proceedings nga malipatan man gilayon niya, ilabi na bangud tigulang na siya suno sa iya, madali makapoy, kag maluya.
Ginklaro man niya nga wala niya ginakilala ang hurisdiksyon sang ICC sa iya.
Sa proceedings sa masunod nga semana, manguna si Presiding Judge Iulia Antoanella Motoc kag pagaupdan sang duha ka iban pa nga judges nga sanday Reine Adélaïde Sophie Alapini-Gansou kag María del Socorro Flores Liera.
Diri nga stage maga-deliver ang prosecutors, defense lawyers, kag legal representatives sang oral arguments sa merito sang kaso.
Kun may isa ukon masobra pa nga charges nga makumpirma, ipasaka ini sa masunod nga stage sang proceedings nga amo ang trial.#
Robin Padilla, bukas sa pagpadalagan bilang VP kun suguon siya ni Duterte
Bukas si Senator Robin Padilla sa pagpadalagan bilang vice president sa 2028 national elections.
Sa iya nga statement matapos nagdeklarar naman si Vice President Sara Duterte sang iya nga presidential bid, nagpahayag si Padilla nga magapadalagan siya kun suguon siya ni former President Rodrigo Duterte.
Walang pwedeng mag utos sa akin kahit sino, si Digong lang.
Kasi ayaw ko talaga ng pulitika, alam naman lahat ng… nanay ko alam yan, mga kapatid ko, asawa ko.
Basta sinabi ni Digong susunod ako,” pahayag ni Padilla.
Sang ginpamangkot naman kun handa na siya sa mas mataas nga posisyon, nagsabat ang senador nga ginbun-ag siya nga handa.
Dugang niya, “puro advocacy” lamang kag daw “spare tire” ang i-eleher para sa amo nga posisyon, gani nga masarangan niya ini.
Lalo na yan, para sa akin… Vice President, hindi naman masyadong ano yan…puro advocacy lang yan eh.
Matandaan nga sang Enero, una na nga nagpahayag ang misis ni Padilla nga si Mariel Rodriguez-Padilla nga indi na magpadalagan sa 2028 ang iya bana partikular na sa pagka-bise presidente.
Sang amo nga tion, nagsiling si Mariel nga may mga tion nga sa pamatyag niya, wala naapresyar ang iya bana sa iya pagserbisyo sa publiko.
“Minsan napapaisip ako na tapusin na lang (termino bilang senador) or sometimes kapag may nasabi na out of context na parang I feel na they don’t deserve him, may mga ganu’n ako,” suno sa host-actress sang amo nga tion.
“To tell you the truth, ayaw niya ‘yung mga people na ‘yun; nate-turn off siya (sa mga nagsasabing tumakbo siyang vice president).
Nagdesisyon na siya, hindi na siya tatakbo.
He’s always saying that because nababagalan siya sa mga bagay-bagay.” #
Pilipinas, bukas sa dugang nga partnership sa Japan sa patag sang negosyo —Recto
Handa ang gobyerno sang Pilipinas nga dugangan pa ukon pasangkaron pa ang partnership sini sa Japan kun negosyo ang pagahambalan.
Ang Japan amo ang ikaduha nga pinakadaku nga trading partner sang Pilipinas.
Naglab-ot sa P1.27 trillion ang balor nga nakuha sa trade sang nagligad nga tuig.
Isa man ang Japan sa nagapanguna nga ginahalinan sang foreign direct investments nga nagapasulod sa Pilipinas sang P42.5 billion sa nauna nga 11 ka bulan sang 2025.
Luyag man sang Palace official nga mas mag-ayo pa ang partnership sang duha ka pungsod sa patag sang turismo ilabi na nga 407,000 Japanese ang nagbisita sa Pilipinas sang una nga 11 ka bulan sang 2025 samtang 825,000 Filipinos naman ang nagbisita sa Japan sa amo nga tion.
Kampo ni Duterte, luyag magdugang sang 108 items sa lista sang ila ebidensya sa ICC
Naghingyo ang kampo ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC) nga pahanugutan sila nga magdugang sang 108 ka dugang nga mga item bilang ebidensya.
Idugang nila ini sa ila gamiton sa confirmation of charges hearing nga maga-umpisa na sa Lunes, Pebrero 23.
Nicholas Kaufman, importante ang ila idugang nga mga ebidensya sa patigayunon nga proceedings.
Ang ila request suno sa iya ang nag-ugat sa recent disclosures ukon mga ginpangbulgar sang prosecution.
Ginrason man sang defense ang nakabutang sa Article 61(6)(c) sang Rome Statue kun sa diin may kinamatarong ang suspek nga magpresentar sang ebidensya sa confirmation of the charges antes ang trial.
Ginpasalig man sang kampo ni Duterte nga wala man sang disbentaha sa prosecution ang ila nga request.
Pebrero 10 sang ginpasugtan man sang ICC Pre-Trial Chamber I ang nauna nga hingyo sang legal team ni Duterte kag sang prosecution nga magdugang sang mga ebidensya nga mahimo gamiton sa proceedings sa kaso ni Duterte nga crimes against humanity.
Nagpadala naman sang sulat si Duterte nga nagasiling nga indi siya magtambong sa hearing bangud wala niya ginakilala ang hurisdiksyon sang ICC sa iya, kag bangud maluya na siya kag tigulang na kag malipatan man niya gilayon suno sa iya ang mga hambalan sa amo nga hearing.
Marcos, wala nahadlok sa deklarasyon ni Sara sang iya presidential bid —Malacañang
Ginklaro sang Malacañang nga wala nahadlok si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sa deklarasyon ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga magapadalagan ini sa pagka-presidente sa 2028.
Claire Castro, sang una pa lamang, nabatyagan naman nila nga nagapangampanya na si Duterte, gani nga wala na sang nakibot sang nag-anunsyo ini sang iya presidential bid.
Dugang pa sang Palace official, kun ang mga ginapanghambal lang sang vice president ang panumdumon ni Marcos, pat-od nga wala na sang makapadalagan sang gobyerno.
Hindi naman kasindak-sindak,” suno kay Castro.
“Even before, ramdam na ramdam na po ang kaniyang pangangampaniya so hindi na nakakagulat,” dugang niya.
“Kung ang iisipin lang ng Pangulo ay ang mga sinasabi ng bise presidente, hindi na tatakbo ang gobyernong ito.”
Ginpanginwala man ni Castro ang mga alegasyon nga nagapangita na ang administrasyon sang potensyal nga mga kandidato nga amo ang magaatubang kay Duterte sa 2028.
Pahayag sang Palace press officer, lunsay trabaho lang ang yara sa pinsar subong sang presidente kag indi bakasyon.
“Wala pa po sa isipan ng Pangulo at ng administasyon na ito ang pamumulitika o humanap ng kandidato sa 2028… Dadating po ang panahon na iyan,” suno sa Communications official.
“Hindi pa rin po ito napag-uusapan… Trabaho, trabaho, trabaho, hindi bakasyon.”
Matandaan nga sang Myerkules, Pebrero 18, sang nagdeklarar si Duterte sang iya plano sa pulitika sa 2028 national elections.
Sa iya speech, nagpangayo ini sang pasaylo sa pag-upod kay Marcos bilang iya ka-tandem sang 2022 elections.
Ginlaslasan man sini ang administrasyon bangud sa iya ginaalegar nga kakulang sa polisa sa imprastraktura, health care, foreign affairs, kag pagtapna sa kurapsyon kag kriminalidad.
Magakitaay liwat sanday Presidente Ferdinand Marcos kag anay Bise Presidente kag subong Naga City Mayor Leni Robredo.
Ini bangud natalana nga magbisita sa Naga City si Presidente Marcos para mag-inspeksiyon sang proyekto nga Oplan Kontra Baha sa lugar.
Claire Castro ang natalana nga pagkitaay liwat sang duha.
Sang ginpamangkot naman si Castro kun posible nga may iban pa nga istoryahan sanday Marcos kag Robredo, nagsiling si Castro nga ini ang dapat bantayan sang publiko.
Makabayan Bloc, ginpakamalaot ang pag-anunsyo ni VP Sara Duterte nga magapadalagan ini sa pagka-Presidente sa 2028
Ginpakamalaot sang Makabayan Bloc ang pag-anunsyo ni Vice President Sara Duterte sang plano sini nga magpadalagan sa pagka-Presidente sang Pilipinas sa tuig 2028.
Gintawag man sang mga ini nga distraction ukon pagpatalang sang atensyon kag isa ka calculated ukon planado nga tikang antes ang impeachment proceedings sini batok sa iya.
Dugang pa sang grupo nga imbes nga mag-anunsyo ini nga magpadalagan ini bilang Presidente sa 2028, dapat anay sabton sang Bise presidente ang mga kwestyon kaangot sa isyu sa confidential funds nga ginhaboy batok sa iya.
Samtang, suno naman kanday Gabriela party-list Rep.
Sarah Elago kag Kabataan party-list Rep.
Renee Co, nagapati ang mga ini nga gusto lamang maliko sang Bise Presidente ang atensyon sang publiko halin sa impeachment complaint nga ginpasaka batok sa iya.
Suno pa kay Elago, makatilingala nga naga-target si Duterte sang pinakamataas nga posisyon sa pungsod samtang nagalala naman ang mga isyu sa korapsyon batok sa iya sang ini pa ang sa Office of the President kag sa Department of Education.
Nagakabalaka ang mga mamalidha sang Gabriela nga suno pa sa grupo magalala lamang ang korupsyon sa pungsod kun ini ang magadaog bilang Presidente.
Suno namay kay Co, desperate attempt ini ni Duterte agud i-divert ang attention palayo sa matuod nga isyu, nga amo ang questionable nga paggamit sang confidential funds.
Dela Rosa bilang myembro sang isa ka Senate Committee
Ini bangud sa pagkakas kay Dela Rosa bangud sa wala sini pagtambong sa sesyon sa Senado halin pa sang Nobyembre sang nagligad tuig.
Ginpangunahan naman ni Senate Deputy Majority Leader JV Ejercito ang pagduso nga iboto si Padilla bilang committee nga parte sang isa ka Senate minority bloc.
Wala sang bisan sin o nga nag-object sa mga senador gani gilayon ini nga gin-aprubahan ni Senate President Vicente Sotto III.
Nahibaluan nga wala na nagatambong si Dela Rosa sa mga sesyon sa senado bangud sa pagpagwa sang International Criminal Court (ICC) sang arrest warrant batok sa iya.
Nagapangatubang man ini sang kaso nga crimes against humanity kaangot sa iya papel sang tyempo ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte sa ila wala nagakaigo nga pagpatuman sang war on drugs.
VP Sara, gin-anunsyo ang pagpapili sa pagka-presidente sa 2028
Gin-anunsiyo ni Vice President Sara Duterte nga mapadalagan siya sa pagka-presidente sa 2028.
Ginhimo niya ini sa isa ka press conference subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 18, 2026.
Nagpangayo naman ini sang pasaylo sa mga pumuluyo nga isa siya sa nangin rason kun ngaa nagdaug sa pagka-presidente si Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Nangayo man ini sang pasaylo sa mga nangin kakulangan sang subong nga administrasyon.
SSS assets, naglapaw sa ₱1 trillion sang 2025 – DOF
Naglapaw sa P1-trillion ang assets sang Social Security System (SSS) sang 2025.
Ang SSS amo ang pension fund para sa mga empleyado sa pribado nga sector.
Suno sa Department of Finance (DOF), nakalab-ot ang total assets sang SSS sa P1.26 trillion nga mas mataas sang 22.1% halin sa P1.03 trillion sang 2024.
Suno kay Finance Secretary kag Social Security Commission (SSC) chairman Frederick Go, ang SSS reserve nagsobra sa P1 trillion sa labing-una nga tion nga isa ka pamatuod sang financial strength, overall security kag sustainability.
Ini nga performance suno sa ahensya isa ka maathag nga mensahe sa SSS members nga sigurado ang ila nga pension kag sustained ang mga benepisyo.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, gin-implementar sang SSS ang una nga hugnat sang tuigan nga saka sa pension.
Nag-grant ang SSS sang tuigan nga saka nga 10% sa retirement kag disability pensions, kag 5% sa survivor pensions halin sa 2025 tubtub sa 2027.
CBCP official, nagpanawagan sa mga pulitiko nga magpuasa kag maglikaw sa pagpangurap
Nagpanawagan ang isa ka opisyal sang Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) sa mga kurap nga mga pulitiko nga magpuasa man kag maglikaw sa pagpangawat sang pondo sang gobyerno.
Jerome Secillano subong nga Miyerkules de Badlis ukon ang pagsugod sang pag-obserbar sang Simbahan Katolika sang Lenten Season.
Secillano, ini nga season isa ka oportunidad para sa mga pulitiko nga mag-untat sa ila malaot nga mga buhat kag mag-umpisa naman sa pagpuasa, abstinence, kag paghatag sa nagakinahanglan.
Pahayag pa sang CBCP official, ini nga season ang manggaranon sa simbolismo nga nagapahanumdom sa mga tawo nga indi sila mabuhi tubtub sa katubtuban, gani nga dapat may yara sang paghinulsol sa mga sala ukon repentance.
Suno sa iya, mas maayo gid kun magpuasa ang mga pulitiko sa pagpangurap indi lamang sa 40 adlaw sang Lent kundi sa bilog na nila nga kabuhi.
Gin-anunsyo sang National Commission on Muslim Filipinos (NCMF) nga maga-umpisa buwas, Pebrero 19, ang balaan nga bulan sang Ramadan.
Ini matapos nga wala sang crescent moon nga nakit-an kagab-i sa Bangsamoro region kag sa Manila Bay, General Santos City, kag sa mga probinsya sang Sultan Kudarat, Sarangani, kag Sulu.
Ang pagbantay sa bulan ang gin-updan man sang Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (BARMM) Darul Ifta, nagkalain-lain nga Ulama groups, kag Philippine Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA).
Nahibaluan nga ang moon sighting ukon hilal sighting amo ang nagamarka sang bag-o nga Islamic lunar month.
Ang Ramadan amo ang pinakabalaan nga bulan sa Islamic calendar kun sa diin nagapuasa ang mga Muslim halin sa kaagahon tubtub sa kasisidmon, kag nagahalad sang pagpangamuyo santo sa ginatudlo sa Islam.
Nagpalab-ot naman sang panamyaw ang secretary sang NCMF nga si Sabuddin Abdruhim para sa Filipino Muslims sa sini nga balaan nga tion.
4 ka iban pa nga Pinoy, nagpakig-away para sa Russia —DFA
Ginkumpirma sang Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) nga may apat ka iban pa nga mga Pilipino nga naka-detain subong sa Ukraine bangud sang ila pagserbe para sa Russian forces.
Magluwas pa ini sa nauna na na-report nga si Raymon Gumangan nga subong man isa ka prisoner of war sa Kyiv bangud sa kaangay man nga rason.
Napasaka naman sa DFA ang request para sa assistance sa lima, apang nagpamalibad ang ahensya nga maghatag sang dugang nga detalye sa publiko.
Suno pa sa ahensya, may isa ka Pilipino nga napatay, kag nakatigayon naman nga nakapakig-angot ang DFA sa iya pamilya.
Sa subong, lain-lain pa nga bersyon sang istorya ang nagaabot sa DFA sa kun paano na-recruit ang mga Pilipino.
Nagpanawagan liwat ang department sa mga Pinoy nga maghalong gid sa mga ginatanyag nga trabaho sa luwas sang pungsod ilabi na kun nakit-an lang online ang offer.
Nahibaluan nga may deployment ban ang Pilipinas sa Ukraine, apang wala sang kaangay nga ban para sa Russia.
Erwin Tulfo, chairman sang Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, nga buligan si Gumangan nga makaguwa sa presuhan sa Ukraine, apang nagpaathag ang DFA nga mabudlay ang sitwasyon bangud wala man sang kaangtanan ang Pilipinas sa gyera sa amo nga pungsod.
Ginpasalig man anay sang ahensya nga napalab-ot na nila sa Ukrainian kag Russian authorities ang amo nga sitwasyon ni Gumangan.
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya defense counsel nga si Nicholas Kaufman.
Suno kay Kaufman, bisan sa labing-una nga pagpakita ni Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC) matapos ini nga naaresto sang Marso 11, indi man sini kuntani luyag nga magtambong sa hearing paagi sa video.
Sang amo nga tion suno kay Kaufman, ginhingyo ni Attorney Salvador Medialdea nga i-postpone anay ang hearing kag himuon nga in-court hearing pagka-Lunes sang amo nga tion agud nga makaabot pa si Kaufman sa Netherlands.
Apang wala gin-grant ang amo nga request.
Sa baylo suno sa counsel, bisan nga bag-o lang halin sa ospital, ginpasuksok kay Duterte ang suit nga indi man iya, ginpapungko sa atubang sang camera, kag ginpatambong sa hearing.
Wala na nagkumpirma si Kaufman kun personal ang pagtambong ni Duterte sa masunod nga semana, ukon i-waive sini ang iya kinamatarong sa pagtambong.
Patigayunon naman ang masunod nga mga hearing sa Martes, Huwebes, kag Byernes.
Diri nga stage kag ipaathag sang prosecution, defense, kag mga abogado sang drug war victims ang ila nga argumento sa atubang sang judges.
Mahimo ini malantaw online apang may 30-minutos nga delay sa ICC website, Facebook, kag YouTube.
Diri sa confirmation of charges hearing tumuron kun may bastante bala nga ebidensya agud nga maka-establisar sang bastante nga grounds agud patihan nga ang isa ka tawo nagkomiter gid man sang krimen nga amo ang ginkaso sa iya.
Pananglitan may isa ka kaso ukon masobra pa nga makumpirma, ipasaka ang kaso sa Trial Chamber nga amo naman ang magapatigayon sang proceedings sa masunod nga stage nga amo na ang trial.
Apat ka dugang nga bangkay sa paglugdang sang MV Trisha Kerstin 3, na-recover
Nagdangat na sa 62 ang nakumpirma nga numero sang mga napatay sa paglugdang sang roll-on roll-off (RoRo) vessel nga MV Trisha Kerstin 3 sa Basilan sang Enero 26.
Ini matapos naka-recover ang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) technical divers sang apat ka dugang nga mga bangkay sa ila nga underwater operations subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 17.
Magluwas diri, may 17 pa nga nagapabilin nga missing.
293 naman ang nauna na nga gin-anunsyo nga survivors.
Matandaan nga halin ang barko sa Port of Zamboanga City sang Enero 25 sang gab-i kag pakadto kuntani sa Jolo, Sulu apang naglugdang samtang yara ini sa kadagatan nga sakop sang Basilan sang Enero 26 sang kaagahon.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Department of Transportation (DOTr) nga posible nga overloading ang rason sang trahedya.
Sa amo nga insidente, duha ka mga Ilonggo seafarers ang nakaluwas.#
SK Chair nga nangtandog sang mga hotdog kag siopao sa convenience store, nag-sorry
Nagpangayo sang pasaylo ang Sangguniang Kabataan chairperson sang Brgy.
Cruz, Laguna matapos mag-viral ang video kun sa diin nakit-an siya nga ginpangtandog ang mga ginabaligya nga siopao kag hotdog sa isa ka convenience store.
Sa iya nga Facebook post, nag-ako si Mark Adrian Napiza nga indi husto ang iya ginhimo apisar nga joke lang kuntani ini suno sa iya nga parte sang iya video content.
Antes ang iya statement, gin-ulan na siya sang pagpakamalaot online bangud makit-an sa video nga nagakinadlawanay pa sila samtang ginakapkap sini ang mga pagkaon.
“Unang una po, inaamin ko na ang aking naging kilos sa nasabing video ay hindi tama at hindi po nararapat, kahit na ito po ay ginawa ko lamang bilang biro na parte ng aking video content kasama ng aking mga kaibigan at walang anumang hangad na masamang intensyon,” pahayag sini.
Dugang niya, ginpangbakal man niya ang tanan nga pagkaon nga iya gintandog sang adlaw nga gin-film niya ang amo nga video.
“Gusto ko pong ipagbigay alam na ang lahat ng aking nahawakang pagkain ay aking kinuha at binayaran nang mismong oras at araw na din na iyon,” dugang sini sa iya nga statement.
Suno pa kay Napiza, nag-sorry naman siya sa management sang convenience store.
Magapakig-angot man ini sa Sangguniang Kabataan Pederasyon kag sa Department of the Interior and Local Government kag batunon kun ano man ang mangin lihok para sa iya.
Ang kadam-an sa nag-call out sa SK chair ang nag-raise ang concern kaangot sa “unhygienic behavior” kag “blatant disregard” para sa iban nga mabakal man.
Sandig sa Code of Ethics and Conduct sang Creator and Influencer Council of the Philippines (CICP), nakasaad nga dapat nga ang kada content creator ang maghimo sang content “with skill, due care, prudence, and diligence” kag dapat nga magsunod sa layi, regulasyon, kag company policies.#
Money Remittance sang mga OFW, nagdangat sa USD 3.52 billion sang Disyembre 2025 suno sa BSP
Nagdangat sa 3.52 billion US Dollar ang ginapadala nga kwarta sang mga Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW) sang Disyembre 2025, nga nagpa-umwad sa kabug-usan nga remittances sa bilog nga tuig nga 35.63 billion US Dollar nga pinakamataas sa kasaysayan, suno sa Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP).
Mas mataas ini sang 3.3% kumpara sa 34.49 billion US Dollar sang 2024.
Ang remittances sang 2025 nagrepresentar sang 7.3% sang GDP kag 6.4% sang gross national income sang pungsod.
Ang Estados Unidos ang nagapanguna nga pinagmumulan sang remittances, sinundan sang Singapore kag Saudi Arabia.
Para sa mga land-based OFW, 41% ang share sang Estados Unidos, samtang sa sea-based naman, 32.2%.
Kaupod sa personal remittances, nga nagalakip sang kwarta kag goods ang nag-record sang 3.89 billion US Dollar sa Disyembre kag 39.62 billion US Dollar sa bilog nga tuig, mas mataas sang 3.3% kumparar sa 2024.
Suportado sang Malacañang ang panawagan sang pila ka mga mamalidha kag mga grupo nga magpatigayon anay ang Department of Education (DepEd) sang masangkad nga konsultasyon kaangot sa ginaduso nga pag-shift sa trimestral system umpisa sa masunod nga tuig.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro, importante nga madiskusyunan anay ini sang stakeholders kag tanan nga mga partido agud nga mangin maayo man ang implementasyon sang programa para sa mga estudyante.
Sa matandaan, sang nagligad nga semana, ginpresentar ni Education Secretary Sonny Angara ang amo nga proposal agud nga himuon na lamang nga tatlo ang subong apat ka grading period sa kada school year.
Ginakonsiderar suno sa DepEd ang implementasyon sang trimester system sa School Year 2026–2027 sa mga pampubliko nga mga eskwelahan.
Ini ang ginalantaw sang ahensya nga “holistic approach” agud nga mapaayo ang learning continuity kag mabuhinan ang administrative workload sang mga manunudlo.
Sandig kay Angara, magabukas ang klase sa Hunyo, kag ang una nga trimester maga-umpisa sa Hunyo-Septyembre; sundan sang second-trimester halin sa Septyembre-Disyembre; kag sundan sang third trimester halin Enero-Marso.
Una naman nga nagpanawagan si Senator Bam Aquino, chairperson sang Senate committee on basic education, nga magpatigayon anay sang inquiry sa amo nga proposal sa baylo nga dali-dalion ang implementasyon.
Nagpabutyag naman sang pagpangduha-duha ang Alliance of Concerned Teachers – Philippines sa proposal bangud indi man ini makasolbar suno sa ila sa krisis sa edukasyon sa Pilipinas.
Jinggoy Estrada, gindumilian sang korte nga makaguwa sa Pilipinas
Nagpaguwa ang korte sa Manila sang precautionary hold departure order (PHDO) batok kay Senator Jinggoy Estrada kag sa iban pa nga akusado sang plunder bangud sang ginaalegar nga involvement sa flood control corruption.
Suno sa korte, posible nga mag-guwa ang mga respondent sa Pilipinas agud nga malikawan ang pag-aresto sa ila kag pag-atubang sa kaso.
Paagi sini nga order, may awtoridad na ang Bureau of Immigration and Deportation nga punggan ang nasambit nga mga indibidwal kun maggwa sa pungsod.
Ginklaro ni Justice spokesperson Polo Martinez nga wala ini nagakahulugan nga naresolba na ukon may desisyon na sa pending nga kaso nga plunder sa Department of Justice (DOJ).
“Precautionary” ang termino suno kay Martinez nga buot silingon, antes pa man pormal nga mapasaka ang kaso sa korte, may gin-isyu na nga order ang judge bilang antisipasyon pananglitan malagyo ang respondents.
Nagpasa naman sang iya nga counter-affidavit si Bonoan kag naglisensya sa DOJ kaangot sa iya plano nga magkadto anay sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom sang Republic Act 7080 ukon ang Anti-Plunder Act, ang plunder amo ang krimen nga nakomiter sang public official nga nakatipon sang at least P75 million nga ill-gotten wealth paagi sa kriminal nga mga akto kaangay sang illegal use of funds, pagbaton sang kickbacks, kag paghingalit sang ila nga posisyon.
Gin-akusaran anay si Estrada nga nagpatigayon sang alokasyon sang P355 million para mapondohan ang Bulacan first district kabaylo sang alleged 30-percent cut, apang ginpanginwala ini sang senador.
Nalakip naman si Bonoan sa rekomendasyon sang Independent Commission on Infrastructure (ICI) sa Ombudsman para sa dugang nga imbestigasyon, samtang sanday Alcantara, Bernardo, and Opulencia ang ginakabig na nga state witnesses sa flood control corruption.#
CBCP, naghingyo sa pagpuasa sa paggamit sang cellphone kag social media
Nagpanawagan ang Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) sa mga tumuluo nga magpuasa indi lamang sa pagkaon kundi mangin sa paggamit sang cellphone kag social media.
Kabahin ini sang kaundan sang pastoral letter nga ginpaguwa sang CBCP samtang nagahilapit na ang pagsugod sang Lenten Season.
Lakip sa ginapanugyan nga himuon agud makapuasa sa digital media amo ang:
Paathag sang CBCP, bisan nga naandan nga magpuasa sa pagkaon bilang akto sang penitensya kag spiritual renewal, ang pagpuasa sa digital media ukon cellphone ang isa man ka paagi agud nga malikawan ang naga-distract sa tagipusuon sa Diyos.
Ginpahayag man sang CBCP nga madamo nga mga tawo ang nagakawad-an sang focus bangud sa sobra-sobra nga paggamit sang teknolohiya nga amo man ang rason sang masami nga kakapoy, paghuyang sang relasyon, kag pagdula sang espiritwal nga ihibalo.
Ginapanugyan man sang mga obispo nga sa baylo sang oras sa pagtutok sa screen, dapat nga magpangamuyo, magserbisyo, magbasa, ukon makig-istorya sa iban.
Maga-umpisa ang Lenten Season sa Ash Wednesday sa Pebrero 18, apang nagapahanumdom ang CBCP sa mga diocese, parokya, pamilya, kag komunidad nga sundon ang digital media fasting bisan matapos na ang Semana Santa.
Bonoan, may plano nga magkadto sa Estados Unidos
Nag-file man subong nga adlaw sang counter-affidavit si former DPWH Manuel Bonoan kaangot sa reklamo nga plunder batok sa iya sa Department of Justice.
Polo Martinez, indi lang isa ka proyekto o lugar ang dala sang reklamo nga plunder.
Natungod man ini sa gina-alegar pagkuha sang ill-gotten wealth nga masobra P50 million nga nakuha sini paagi sa nagkalain-lain nga trasaksyon.
Ginkumpirma man ni Bonoan nga may plano ini nga magkadto sa Estados Unidos apang wala pa sini mahibalui kun san-o.
Suno pa kay Bonoan nga ginpasugtan man ini sang Department of Justice
Sa matandaan nga nagbiyahe si Bonoan padulong sa Estados Unidos paagi sa Taiwan sang Nobyembre 2025 agud updan ang iya asawa nga mag-paidalum sa isa ka medical procedure.
Nagbalik ini sa Pilipinas sang Enero 18, 2026.
Nauna na sini ginpanginwala ang alegasyon nga nagbaton ini sang masobra P2 bilyon nga kickback halin sa mga proyekto sang gobyerno.
Bonoan, personal nga nag-atubang sa preliminary investigation sa Department of Justice
Nag-atubang subong nga adlaw ang anay tiglikom sang Department of Public Works and Highways nga si Manuel Bonoan sa ginpatigayon nga preliminary investigation sa Department of Justice.
Ginapangatubang sini ang rekalmo nga plunder nga ginpasaka batok sa iya kaangot sa isyu sang korapsyon nga may kahilabtanan sa maanomaliya nga flood control projects.
Ginkumpirma ang pagsumite sa prosecution sang ‘counter-affidavit’ bangud sa reklamo.
Dala man ang napatay nga si anaay DPWH undersecretary Catalina Cabral nga respondent man sa reklamo.
Nakatalana naman ang masunod nga preliminary investigation sa Pebrero 23.
Indi pa option subong suno sa Chinese embassy
Gin-athag sang Chinese embassy nga indi pa nila option subong nga dagdagan sang sanctions ang mga opisyal sang Pilipinas nga involved sa “word war” batok sa Chinese diplomats.
Sabat ini sang embahada sa mga komento sa ila post nga nagapanugyan nga magpaguwa sang penalidad batok sa mga Filipino lawmakers lakip na sa ila mga pamilya sa China.
Lakip sa ginapanugyan sang iban nga netizens amo ang pag-freeze sang ila propiedad sa China, ukon pagmandu sa Chinese citizens kag mga institusyon nga untatan ang pag-negosyar sa ila.
Suno naman sa embahada, indi pa ini option subong, bangud nagapati ang embahada suno sa ila nga may kahilwayan man sa pagpabutyag sang opinion ang mga Pilipino, kag may kahilwayan man ang embahada nga magsabat.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga sinemana, gindeklarar sang Municipality of Kalayaan sa Palawan bilang persona non grata si Ambassador Jing Quan.
Bilang balos, gin-ban man sang China ang 16 local officials sang Kalayaan nga makasulod sa mainland China, Hong Kong, kag Macau.
Kun balikan, nagsingki ang “word war” sa tunga sang mga opisyal sang China kag Pilipinas matapos nag-file sang protesta ang China batok kay Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) spokesman for the West Philippine Sea Commodore Jay Tarriela bangud suno sa ila sa pagtamay sa Chinese leaders.
Ang sunod-sunod nga posts sang Chinese embassy ang ginpatasan naman kag ginsabat indi lamang ni Tarriela kundi sang mga senador, kongresista, kag iban pa nga mga opisyal sang Pilipinas.
Nagpasar man ang Senado sang resolusyon nga nagakondenar sa amo nga mga pahayag kag aktwasyon sang Chinese embassy.#
Aguirre, indi magpalagyo kun may arrest warrant na halin sa ICC
Nagpasalig si former Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre II nga indi siya magpanago pananglitan nga may ipaguwa na nga arrest warrant ang International Criminal Court (ICC) batok sa iya.
Isa ang former justice official sa ginhingadlan nga co-perpetrator sa drug war ni former President Rodrigo Roa Duterte nga subong nagapangatubang sang kaso nga crimes against humanity sa korte sa The Hague, Netherlands.
Apisar indi siya magpanago suno kay Aguirre, magapamatok siya nga arestuhon, apang suno sa iya, himuon niya ini sa legal nga paagi, kaangay sang pagdangop sa korte bangud nagapati siya nga isa ka pagsupak sa layi pananglitan nga i-subject siya sa trial sa ICC.
Nagalaum man si Aguirre nga magpaguwa sang ruling ang Korte Suprema nga naga-athag sang proseso nga sundon pananglitan nga may arrest warrant halin sa amo nga korte.
Nagpanindugan man si Aguirre nga wala siya sang involvement sa ginasiling sang ICC nga “common plan” ukon “national network” sa implementasyon sang drug war.
Nagapati man ang anay opisyal nga gindugang lang siya sa listahan agud nga mapatihan ini ukon agud nga may kredibilidad ang kaso.
Pahayag sang anay DOJ Secretary, wala siya sang kahilabtanan sa anuman nga extrajudicial killings, kag sa pagkamatuod suno sa iya, nangin instrumento pa siya gani agud nga makuha sang pila ka drug war victims ang hustisya.
Magluwas kay Aguirre, yara sa listahan sang alleged co-perpetrators sanday:
Una naman nga nagpahayag ang defense team ni Duterte sa pagpanguna ni Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman nga wala pa sang arrest warrant sa sini nga mga indibidwal.
Gintawag man ni Kaufman nga pamulitika ang pagpagwa sang listahan.#
ICC, nagbalibad sa pagkumpirma kun may request na sang arrest warrant vs Bong Go kag Bato
Nagpamalibad ang International Criminal Court-Office of the Prosecutor (ICC-OTP) sa pagkumpirma kun may yara na sang request nga magpaguwa sang arrest warrant batok kanday Senator Ronald “Bato” Dela Rosa kag Senador Christopher Lawrence “Bong” Go.
Ini matapos nga nalakip ang duha ka senador sa walo ka mga indibidwal nga ginhingadlan sang ICC nga co-perpetrators ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa pagpatuman sang kontrobersyal kag maduguon nga drug war.
Kasunod sang pagguwa sang dokumento sang Sabado, nagpanawagan ang International Coalition for Human Rights in the Philippines (ICHRP) sa ICC nga ipaguwa na ang warrant of arrest batok sa co-perpetrators.
Suno naman sa OTP, nagapadayon pa ang ila nga imbestigasyon kaangot sa sitwasyon sa Pilipinas.
Indi pa sila makakomento suno sa ila sa tanan nga nagapadayon nga imbestigasyon kag sa specific nga mga kaso nga mahimo magtuhaw kaangot sa sini nga sitwasyon.
Importante ini suno sa ila agud nga maproteksyunan ang integridad sang imbestigasyon kag mapasiguro ang kahilwayan kag seguridad sang mga biktima, testigo, kag tanan nga mga indibidwal nga ginapakig-angutan sang prosecutor.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas kanday Dela Rosa kag Go, ginhingadlan man nga ginaalegar may kahilabtanan ang masunod:
Defense team ni anay Presidente Duterte, hugot nga ginpanginwala ang “co-perpetrators” nga listahan sang ICC
Hugot nga ginpanginwala sang defense team ni anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte ang listahan nga ginpagwa sang International Criminal Court (ICC) nga nagabuyagyag sang ginapahayag “co-perpetrators” sa kaso niya nga ‘crimes against humanity.”
Nicholas Kaufman, lead counsel ni Duterte, ginakabig sini nga “sensational” kag “politically motivated” ang amo nga listahan.
Nahibaluan nga naulamid sa amo nga listahan ang mga senador nga sanday Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa kag Christopher Lawrence “Bong” Go, mga anay opisyal sang pulisya, anay direktor sang NBI nga si Dante Gierran, kag anay Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre II.
Sa isa man ka pahayag, ginpanginwala ni Senator Bong Go ang amo nga alegasyon kag gintawag ini nga “baseless.”
Sa karun, gin-schedule sang ICC ang confirmation of charges hearing ni Duterte umpisa Pebrero 23, 2026, matapos ang 11 ka bulan nga pagkabilanggo niya sa korte.
Singer nga si Jaya, liwat nga gin-sorpresa sang iya bana sang marriage proposal
Tuman ang kalipay sang singer kag aktress nga si Jaya sang liwat ini nga gin-sorpresa sang iya bana nga si Gary sang marriageproposal sa Colorado Springs.
Nahibaluan nga kasal na sila ni Gary sang 2006 paagi sa isa ka civil wedding, apang plano gid nila nga magkasal liwat sa simbahan subong nga tuig.
Kaupod sa sorpresa ang ila mga abyan nga nagbulig sa pagpaplano sang amo nga proposal.
Tuman man ang pagpasalamat ni Jaya sa tanan nga nagbuylog sa amo nga sorpresa kag sa ila nagahilapit nga church wedding.
Filipina tennis star Alex Eala, nakatalana nga magahampang bilang qualifier sa una nga round sang Dubai Tennis Championships
Nakatalana nga magahampang ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala bilang isa ka qualifier sa una nga round sang Dubai Tennis Championships, base sa ginpatigayon nga draw kahapon nga adlaw.
Una nga nahatagan si Eala sang wild card, apang nakasulod ini sa main draw matapos mag-atras si McCartney Kessler bangud sa injury.
Kun magmadinalag-on si Eala sa iya una nga hampang, may posibilidad nga makaaway niya ang world No.
8 nga si Jasmine Paolini sa masunod nga round.
Matandaan nga si Eala naghalin sa pagkapierde sa una nga round sang Qatar Open, apang antes sini nakadangat siya sa quarterfinals sang Abu Dhabi Open.
DA, gin-anunsyo ang hugot nga pagbantay sa mga bodega kasunod sang pagpatuman sang Anti-Agricultural Economic Sabotage Act
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga ila pagahugtan ang pagbantay sa mga bodega kasunod sang pagpatuman sang Anti-Agricultural Economic Sabotage Act.
Suno sa DA, nagpagwa ini sang nga “Guidelines for the Registry System for Agri Storage” nga nagamando sang mandatory ukon hugot nga pagparehistro sang mga warehouse, cold storage facility, kag iban pa nga agricultural logistics hubs.
Sa idalom sang nasambit nga patakaran, tanan nga pasilidad nga nagastock sang mga produkto nga pang-agrikultura kag pangisda, ginapanag-iyahan man, ginarentahan ukon ginapadalagan sang third party ang ginakinahanglan nga magparehistro paagi sa DA Online Registration System.
Sakop sang mandatory registration ang mga rice warehouse, cold storage sang sibuyas, meat freezer, grain silo, refrigerated container van, kag iban pa nga storage facilities para sa mga produkto nga pang-agrikultura, lakip na ang mga lokal kag imported nga produkto.
Robin Padilla nga nasakitan ini kag naglain ang iya buot sang nahibaluan nga nadala sa ginpangalanan bilang co-perpetrators sang International Criminal Court ang iya mga kaupdanan sa minority nga sanday Sen.
Ginpabutyag man sang Senador nga gilayon niya nga gintawgan sanday Go kag Dela Rosa agud pamangkuton kun ano ang iya mahimo bangud handa ini nga magbulig kun kinahanglan.
Suno pa sa Senador, nakig-angot man ini sa minority floor leader nga si Senador Alan Peter Cayetano agud talakayon kun ano ang ila himuon, bangod sila ang una nga maapektuhan bilang minorya sa Senado.
Nagpanawagan man si Padilla sa gobyerno, nga indi dapat tugutan sang Pilipinas ang International Criminal Court nga dumalahan ang mga Pilipino.
Ginpaguwa sang International Criminal Court (ICC) ang “Document Containing the Charges” batok kay former President Rodrigo Duterte kaangot sa kaso sini nga ginapangatubang nga crimes against humanity.
16 ka pahina ang report nga ginsapubliko subong nga adlaw, kag nalakip sa gindetalye amo ang sistematiko nga “common plan” agud nga pangpatyon ang ginaalegar nga mga drug suspect halin sang 2011 tubtub sang 2019.
Sandig sa prosecution, may yara sang duha ka main hit groups nga amo ang Davao Death Squad (DDS) kag “National Network” nga amo ang ginapahayag nga nagpasangkad pa sang Davao model sa bilog nga Pilipinas sang 2016.
Tatlo ka counts sang murder ang gin-file batok kay Duterte nga amo ang masunod:
1) Davao City (2013-2016): 19 ka mga biktima
3) Barangay Ops (2016-2018): 43 murders & 2 attempted murders lakip ang tatlo ka mga kabataan.
Ginaakusaran si Duterte nga amo ang nagdesinyo sang polisa, nagmandu sa mga hitman, kag nagpromisa nga makaluwas ang mga killer.
Ginlaragway ini sang ICC nga “widespread and systematic attack” batok sa mga sibilyan.
Ginhingadlan naman nga co-perpetrators ni Duterte ang duha ka incumbent senators nga sanday Ronald “Bato” Dela Rosa kag Christopher Lawrence “Bong” Go.
Luwas sa ila, yara ang pangalan nanday Vicente Danao, Camilo Cascolan, Oscar Albayalde, Dante Gierran, Isidto Lapeña, Vitaliano Aguirre II, kag iban pa nga myembro sang PNP kag high-ranking officials.#
Bong Go, Bato dela Rosa, ginhingadlan sang ICC nga co-perpetrators sa Duterte drug war
Nalakip sanday Senador Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa kag Senador Christopher Lawrence “Bong” Go sa mga gin-identify sang International Criminal Court (ICC) nga CO-PERPETRATORS ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa ginapahayag nga pagkomiter sang crimes against humanity nga may kangtanan sa drug war.
Nalakip ang ila pangalan sa redacted version sang Document Containing Charges (DCC) nga ginpasa sang Office of the Prosecution nga napetsahan sang Feb.
iban pa nga myembro sang PNP kag high-ranking officials.
Sandig sa DCC, ginmanduan ni Duterte ang mga myembro sang DDS (Davao Death Squad) kag ang National Network nga i-komiter ang mga krimen nga nakabutang sa Counts 1-3 nga amo ang masunod:
Covered sang kaso ang Nobyembre 1, 2011 tubtub sa Marso 16, 2019.
Ridon, ginatudlo nga ”double hearsay” ang record sang komunikasyon ni Pres.
Ginatudlo ni House Committee on Public Accounts Chairperson Terry Ridon bilang “double hearsay” ang mga alegasyon nga may record sang komunikasyon sa tunga ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kag anay Undersecretary Adrian Bersamin nga nagapakita sang ila direkta nga koneksyon sang Presidente sa mga kickback sa flood control.
Si Adrian Bersamin amo ang apo ni former executive secretary Lucas Bersamin, kag amo ini ang ginatumod ni former Congressman Zaldy Co nga nagkumpirma sa iya nga nagmandu si President Marcos sang insertion sang P100 billion sa 2025 national budget.
Suno kay Ridon, magluwas lamang kun personal nga kumpirmahon ni Bersamin ang kamatuoran sa ginaalegar nga komunikasyon nila ni Marcos, ang ini nga mga alegasyon wala sa gihapon sang balor kag indi magdugay sa korte ukon sa proseso sang impeachment.
Samtang, suno naman kay ACT Teachers Party List Representative Antonio Tinio pwede nga gamiton ang record sang komunikasyon ni Marcos kag Bersamin bilang basehan sang isa pa ka posible nga impeachment complaint batok sa Presidente kun natapos na ang one-year ban sini sa Enero 2027.
Ginpahayag naman ni House Assistant Majority Leader Zia Alonto Adiong nga kun may ara sang nagakaigo nga ebidensya para suportahan ang mga pahayag sini, dapat mapakita sa deliberasyon sang house panel sa mga impeachment complaint batok sa Presidente.
Nahibaluan nga ginpanginwala sang Malacañang ang nasambit nga komunikasyon kag nagpahayag nga ang Presidente wala sang koneksyon sa anuman nga korapsyon nga nagakatabo sa gobyerno.
NBA Superstar Lebron James, nangin oldest player sa NBA nga nakakuha sang triple-double
Nakuha sang Superstar nga si Lebron James ang isa na naman nga NBA record sa edad nga 41.
Siya subong ang ginakilala nga oldest player nga nakakuha sang triple-double matapos nga ginpangunahan sini ang Los Angeles Lakers sa kadalag-an nila batok sa Dallas Mavericks.
Nalapawan sini ang record ni Karl Malone nga 40 anyos sang nakuha man sini ang triple double para sa Lakers sa ila pagdaog kontra San Antonio Spurs sang Nobyembre 28, 2003.
Ang ini nga kadalag-an nakuha ni LebRon tatlo ka adlaw bag-o ang iya ika-22 nga All-Star-Game appearance.
Bangud wala sa gihapon ang NBA scoring leader nga si Luka Doncic, gin-umpisahan ni LebRon ang hampang sang mabaskog nga 14 ka puntos sa una nga quarter kag nabalik sang Lakers ang ila nga momentum halin sa duwa ka sunod-sunod nga pagka-pierde.
Malacañang, nagapati nga indi dapat pagtawgon nga mahina ang mga kabataan bangud sila ang paglaum sang pungsod
Nagapati ang Malacañang nga indi dapat pagtawgon nga mahina ang mga kabataan sa subong nga henarasyon bangud sila ang paglaum sang pungsod.
Ini ang nangin sabat ni Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro nahanungod sa pahayag ni Senator Robin Padilla sang gintawag sini nga mahina ang kabataan sa subong nga henerasyon kag suno pa sa senador nga indi uso ang ginatawag nga ”depression” sang tyempo sini.
Suno pa kay Castro dapat nga magapabilin sa tagipuson sang mga tawo ang nangin leksyon ni Dr.
Jose Rizal nga ang mga kabataan ang paglaum sang Pilipinas.
Ginpunto man sini nga amo sini ang rason kun ngaa ginapakamaayo ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
ang mga programa para sa edukasyon kag ikaayong lawas sang mga kabataan.
Sa matandaan nga sang nagligad nga mga inadlaw, ginlaragway ni Padilla ang mga kabataan sa subong nga henrasyon bilang mahina kag sang ila tyempo indi pa uso ang tinaga nga ”depression.”
DepEd, ginalantaw ang pagpahamtang sang trimester system para sa academic year 2026-2027
Ginalantaw sang Department of Education (DepEd) ang pagpahamtang sang trimester system para sa academic year 2026-2027.
Kabahin ini sang “holistic approach” sa balanse nga pagdumala sang oras para sa mga estudyante kag nagahatag man ini sang mas flexible nga pamagi sa kalidad nga pagtudlo.
Ang trimester system pagatung-on ang 201 nga mga inadlaw sa tatlo ka termino, kun sa diin ang kada termino may ginpili nga mga leksyon kag buluhaton para sa mga estudyante.
Ang una nga termino pagahiwaton halin Hunyo tubtob Setyembre, sunod ang ikaduha nga termino halin Setyembre tubtob Disyembre, kag ang katapusan nga termino halin Enero tubtob Marso.
Ginpahayag man sang DepEd nga magapagwa pa sila sang policy guidelines nahanungod sa trimester calendar sa masunod nga mga inadlaw.
Samtang, ginaduso man sang ahensya ang “low-disruption alternatives,” kun sa diin ang mga selebrasyon mahimo nga i-integrate sa actual outputs sang klase imbes nga bulagon ang programa nga nagaperwisyo sa pagtuon sang mga estudyante.
Cardinal David, ginasuportahan si Tarriela sa panindugan sini sa West Philippine Sea
Nagpabutyag sang iya suporta si Kalookan Bishop Pablo Virgilio Cardinal David sa panindugan ni Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) spokesperson for the West Philippine Sea (WPS) Commodore Jay Tarriela sa pagdampig sa pungsod.
Gin-post ni Cardinal David ang iya opinyon kagab-i kasunod sang nagasingki nga word war sa tunga sang Philippine officials kag Chinese embassy.
Sa iya post, ginpasalamatan sang anay presidente sang CBCP si Lingayen Dagupan Archbishop Socrates Villegas bangud sa iya pagdayaw sa prinsipyo kag kaisog ni Tarriela sa pagpanindugan sa isyu sa West Philippine Sea.
Suno kay Cardinal David, indi lamang ini isyu sa politika, kundi moral kag pastoral, ilabi na bangud nadalahig sa sini nga isyu ang palangabuhian kag kahilwayan sang mga Pilipino ilabi na ang mga manugpangisda.
Gindayaw man ni Cardinal David ang 15 ka mga senador nga nagpirma sang Senate resolution nga nagapabutyag sang protesta batok sa padayon nga pagpang-harass sang China.
Ang ginatumod sini amo ang resolusyon nga ginbaisan kag sang ulihi ginpasar sa Senado sang Lunes nga nagapakamalaot sang mga statement sang Chinese embassy batok sa Filipino officials.
Sang Martes, nauna na nga nag-post si Archbishop Villegas nga nagsiling nga ginadayaw sini si Tarriela bangud apisar sang mga pagtamay sa iya sang pro-China nga mga pulitiko, nagapabilin ini sa iya prinsipyo nga magtindog para sa mga pumuluyo nga Pilipino.
Nagbalos naman si Tarriela kag nagsiling nga ini nga mensahe nagadala sang kaisog kag inspirasyon sa iya samtang nga ginapadayon sini ang iya trabaho nga magpanindugan para sa kinamatarong sang Pilipinas sa West Philippine Sea.
US, bukas nga diskusyunan ang free trade sa Pilipinas —envoy
Bukas ang Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga diskusyunan ang free trade agreement (FTA) kaupod sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Philippine Ambassador to the United States Jose Manuel Romualdez, nagpabutyag ang Trump administration sang interes para sa amo nga kasugtanan.
Una nga nabuksan ang istorya sa potensyal nga FTA sa duha ka pungsod sang ginadiskusyunan ang taripa sa pagpanguna anay ni Special Assistant to the President for Investment and Economic Affairs Frederick Go.
Sa subong, nagapatuman ang US sang 19% nga taripa sa mga gina-export sang Pilipinas lakip na sa pila ka agricultural goods kag semiconductors.
Sang nagligad nga semana, nagpirma ang US sang memorandum of understanding (MOU) kaupod sa iban nga mga pungsod lakip na ang Pilipinas.
Nahibaluan nga ginabanta 70% sang Philippine trade ang gina-conduct nga may FTA partners.
Ang nabilin nga 30% naga-involve sang non-FTA countries kun sa diin 10% ang United States kag 8-10% naman ang sa European Union.#
2 Pinoy lawyers para sa drug war victims, ginapa-disqualify sang kampo ni Duterte
Nag-request ang kampo ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC) nga i-disqualify ang duha ka mga Pilipino nga abogado nga magatiglawas sang drug war victims sa korte.
Ini amo ang ICC-accredited lawyers nga sanday Atty.
Gilbert Andres nga una na nga gin-appoint sang korte bilang mga common legal representative.
Sa 11 ka pahina nga request sang defense lawyer nga si Nicholas Kaufman, ginpahayag sini nga dapat kakason sanday Butuyan kag Andres bangud sa grounds nga “impediment to representation” kag bangud sa ginaalegar nga “conflict of interest.”
Ginapa-disqualify man sang kampo ni Duterte si Atty.
Nicolene Arcaina nga ginpili nanday Butuyan kag Andres bilang case manager.
Gin-redact ukon wala ginpakita sa publiko ang mga detalye sang rason ni Kaufman sa iya nga hingyo.
Nahibaluan nga ang gin-appoint nga common legal representatives amo ang magatindog para sa pangkabug-usan nga interes sang mga drug war victims.
Lain sila sa ICC prosecutor nga amo naman ang in charge sa pag-prosecute sang kaso nga gin-file batok sa suspek.
Si Andres nga taga-Iloilo kag si Butuyan ang lunsay halin sa Center for International Law nga madugay na naga-represent sang drug war victims.
Nahibaluan nga base sa schedule sang ICC, maga-umpisa na ang confirmation of charges hearing kay Duterte sa Pebrero 23.
Numero sang mga Pinoy nga malipayon sa love life, nagnubo —SWS
Nagsarurot sa 46% ang porsyento sang mga Pilipino nga malipayon sa ila nga lovelife.
Sandig ini sa survey nga gin-conduct sang Social Weather Stations (SWS) sang Nobyembre 24-30, 2025 kag gin-release ang resulta antes ang Valentine’s Day subong nga tuig.
Ini nga figure ang pinakamanubo nga SWS data sa sulod sang masobra duha ka dekada halin sang una ini nga na-record sang 2004.
Sa amo man nga survey, 40% ang nagasiling nga nagapati sila nga mahimo sila mangin mas malipayon pa sangsa ila love life subong.
Ang nabilin naman nga 14% ang nagpahayag nga wala sila sang love life.
As of November 2025, ang may pinakamataas nga nalipay sa ila love life amo ang kasado nga mga babaye nga may 57%; ginasundan sang kasado nga mga lalaki nga may 55 percent; mga lalaki nga may live-in partners nga yara sa 50 percent kag mga babaye nga may live-in partners nga yara sa 45 percent.
Sa mga babaye nga respondents, 22% ang nagsiling nga wala sila sang bana ukon partner subong nga tuig, mas manubo sang 2% sa 2024 SWS survey.
Sa pihak nga bahin, 28% naman sang mga lalaki ang nag-report nga wala sila sang love life.
Ini nga Fourth Quarter 2025 Social Weather Survey ang gin-conduct paagi sa face-to-face interviews sa 1,200 adults nga may sampling margin of error nga ±3 percent sa national percentages kag ±6 percent sa Metro Manila, Luzon sa guwa sang Metro Manila, Visayas, kag Mindanao.
Patrol car, nahulog sa banglid sa Misamis Occidental; 4 pulis, patay
Ginkumpirma sang Misamis Occidental Police Provincial Office ang natabo nga trahedya subong nga Byernes, Pebrero 13, nga ginkamatay sang apat ka mga kapulisan.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nadulaan sang preno ang ila ginasakyan nga patrol car rason nga nahulog sa banglid sa Napangan, Donvic sa amo nga probinsya.
Lunsay halin sa 2nd Provincial Mobile Force Company (PMFC) sa Misamis ang mga biktima nga ginbawian sang kabuhi.
Magluwas sa ila, tatlo ka iban pa nga kaupdanan nila ang padayon nga ginabulong sa ospital.
“Taos-puso po kaming nakikiramay at nakikidalamhati sa naiwang pamilya, mga mahal sa buhay at mga kasamahan sa hanay ng kapulisan.
Ang kanilang tapat na paglilingkod, tapang at sakripisyo para sa bayan ay mananatiling alaala at inspirasyon sa aming lahat.
Sa gitna ng matinding kalungkutan, kami ay patuloy na nananalangin para sa lakas, kaaliwan at kapayapaan ng puso sa bawat pamilya,” kabahin sang statement sang Misamis Occidental Police Provincial Office.#
Ang nag-file sang petisyon amo ang mga abogado nga sanday Manuelito Luna, Ferdinand Topacio, kag Harold Respicio.
Dugang niya: “Hindi po ito para patahimikin si Senate President Sotto katulad ng sinasabi ng iba.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga bulan, nagdesisyon ang Korte Suprema nga palig-unon pa ukon i-uphold ang nauna nga desisyon sini nga nagadeklarar nga unconstitutional ang impeachment sang Kamara batok sa bise-presidente.
Nagdesisyon ang en banc sang may pinalidad nga ginabasura sini ang motion for reconsideration nga ginpasaka sang lower chamber.
Nagkomento naman si Sotto nga isa na ka imposible nga handum ang impeachment batok kay Duterte.
Pahayag pa sini, ang ruling sang Korte Suprema ang maathag nga pagsulod ukon pagpahilabot sa gahum sang legislative branch.
Sa amo nga desisyon suno sa iya, naghimo ang Supreme Court sang bag-o nga pagsulundan nga sundon sang Kongreso kun may impeachment.
ICC, ginpanindugan ang desisyon nga fit si Duterte para sa trial
Ginbasura sang International Criminal Court (ICC) ang apelar ni former President Rodrigo Duterte nga baliskaron ang nauna nga desisyon nga ideklarar siya nga fit agud mag-atubang sa pre-trial proceedings sa iya kaso nga crime against humanity.
Subong nga hapon sang ginsapubliko sang pre-trial chamber ang desisyon sini nga nagasiling nga napaslawan ang kampo ni Duterte nga iplastar sang klaro kun ano gid ang ila nga gina-apelar.
Matandaan nga sang Enero 26 sang gin-reject sang ICC ang request sang kampo ni Duterte nga indefinite adjournment sa kaso.
Ginpanindugan sang ICC ang amo nga desisyon nga nagasiling nga makasarang pa si Duterte nga maghangop kun ano ang iya kaso kag makasarang pa nga magamit ang iya nga procedural rights.
Ang defense team naman sa pagpanguna ni Atty.
Nicholas Kaufman ang nagsiling nga nagsalig lang ang Chamber sa independent panel sang tatlo ka medical experts kag wala na nagsapak sa medical reports nga ila ginpasa.
Ginklaro naman sang Chamber nga ginhatagan sini sang prayoridad ang reports halin sa neutral sources agud nga mangin patas ang proceedings.
Gin-athag man sang korte nga ginrepaso man sang independent experts ang medical submissions sang defense antes sila nakalab-ot sa ila nga konklusyon nga fit pa si Duterte sa trial.
Sa separado naman nga desisyon nga ginsapubliko man subong nga adlaw, gin-aprubahan man sang ICC ang 500 ka dugang nga applicants nga magpartisipar sa proceedings bilang “drug war victims.”
Buot silingon sini, lab-ot na sa 539 ang numero sang mga biktima nga magapasakop sa confirmation stage.
Una na nga gin-anunsyo sang ICC nga gin-appoint bilang common legal representatives sang drug war victims ang duha ka Pilipino nga mga abogado nga sanday Atty.
Nagpahayag si Palace Press Officer Usec.
Apat ka mga Aeta centenarian sa Capas, Tarlac, nakabaton sang P100, 000 nga cash gift halin sa Gobyerno
Nakabaton sang P100, 000 nga cash gift halin sa Gobyerno ang apat ka mga Aeta centenarian sa Capas, Tarlac.
Ginpangunahan sang National Commission of Senior Citizens (NCSC) ang paghatag sang P100, 000 nga cash gift, lakip na diri ang paghatag man sang cake kag mensahe halin kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Kasunod ini sa mandato sang Republic Act No.
10868, ukon ang Centenarians Act of 2016 nga nagahatag sang suporta sa mga Pilipino nga naga-abot sa 100 anyos ukon masobra pa diri ang edad.
Nahibaluan nga sang una nag-ani sang nagkalain-lain nga kritisismo ang amo nga programa bangud sa pagka-delay sa paghatag sini sa mga benepisyaryo.
Base sa report sang ahensya, humalin Disyembre 31, 2025 tubtob subong, nakahatag na ang National Commission of Senior Citizens (NCSC) sang masobra sa P2.8 bilyon, ukon 96 % nga gin-alokar nga pondo para sa nasambit nga programa.
ICC, ginpasugtan ang hingyo sang kampo ni anay PRRD nga magdugang sang bag-o nga ebidensya sa hearing sini sa Pebrero 23
Ginpasugtan na sang International Criminal Court (ICC) ang ginapangabay sang kampo ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte kag amo man sang prosecution nga magdugang sang bag-o nga ebidenysa masobra isa ka semana antes ang confirmation of charges hearing sa Pebrero 23.
Sa apat ka pahina sang desisyon sang ICC Pre-Trial Chamber 1 nga may petsa nga Pebrero 10, ginmanduan sang ICC Pre-Trial Chamber 1 ang depensa kag ang prosecution nga magsumite sang bag-o nga ebidensya tubtob sa Pebrero 13.
Nahibaluan nga una nga ginpangayo sang legal team sang anay presidente halin sa ICC nga magdugang sang 78 ka mga panibag-o nga ebidensya nga pagadal-on sa confirmation of charges.
Wala naman ini gin-kontra sang prosecution gani ginpasugtan na lamang sang ICC.
Samtang sa bahin sang prosecution, nagpangabay man ini sa chambers sang dugang nga duwa ka mga panibag-o nga ebidensya kun sa diin nagpasugot man ang kampo sang depensa.
Nadala man diri ang Common Legal Representatives of Victims (CLRV) nga wala ginkontra ang pangabay sang depensa kag prosecution nga magdugang sang mga ebidensya.
Ang nasambit nga mando ginpaguwa matapos ang pila ka adlaw bag-o ang patigayunn nga confirmation of charges batok sa anay Presidente sang pungsod halin Pebrero 23 tubtob 27.
Nahibaluan nga sa karon yara sa facility center sang ICC ang 80-anyos nga si Duterte bangud sa ginapangatubang sini nga crime against humanity charges kaangot sa anti-drug operation sini sang siya pa ang alkalde sang Davao kag Presidente sang Pilipinas.
DILG Secretary Remulla, magabisita sa Kalayaan para pabaskugon ang soberanya sang pungsod
Gindepensahan ni Department of Interior and Local Government Secretary Jonvic Remulla ang mga local officials sa Kalayaan, Palawan matapos nga gin-ban ang mga ini nga magkadto sa China bilang balos sang Beijing sa resolusyon sang Sangguniang Bayan sang Kalayaan nga nagadeklara sa ambassador sang China bilang persona non grata.
Gindumilian sang China ang 16 ka opisyal sang munisipyo sang Kalayaan nga magkadto sa mainland China, HongKong kag Macau.
Suno sa tiglikom nga parte sang teritoryo sang kadagatan sang Pilipinas ang Kalayaan Group of Islands kag masobra isa ka siglo na ini nga gina-estaran sang mga Pilipino.
Gindugang pa sini nga bisitahon man sini ang lugar para pabaskugon ang soberanya sang pungsod.
Nahibaluan nga ang nasambit nga lugar makit-an sa West Philippine Sea kag may ara ini sang masobra 400 ka mga residente.
Samtang, nagpanawagan naman si DFA Maritime Affairs Spokesperson Rogelio Villanueva sa China sang malinong kag propesyonal nga pag-istoryahanay agud indi maguba ang relasyon sang Pilipinas kag China.
Senator Robin Padilla, ginhikayan ang mga kabataan subong nga henerasyon kag gintawag nga ”weak”
Ginhikayan ni Senator Robin Padilla ang mga kabataan sa subong nga henerasyon kag gintawag niya nga weak ukon mahina nga mga indibidwal ang mga ini.
Ini nga pahayag naggwa sa hearing sang Senate Committee on Public Information and Mass Media kahapon nga adlaw nahanungod sa Children’s Safety in Social Media Act.
Suno sa senador, ang mga kabataan sa karon indi kaangay sang ila tyempo sang una nga indi palahibi kag indi pa sa ila uso ang ginatawag nga depression.
Ginpahayag man sang senador nga may pila ka mga mamalidha nga gusto i-regulate ang pagdumili sang social media sa mga kabataan lakip na diri ang pagbutang sang age limit nga 16.
Suno naman sa Cybercrime Investigation and Coordinating Center nga kinahanglan nga ibalansehon ang interes sa mga ini.
Dugang pa sini nga maayo para sa Pilipinas nga mahibaluan halin sa iban nga pungsod ang pagpatuman sang ila tagsa-tagsa ka resolusyon sa sini nga regulasyon sa pagdumili sang paggamit sag social media.
Panibag-o nga warrant of arrest batok Atong Ang kag lima pa, ginpaguwa na
Ginpaguwa na ang panibag-o nga warrant of arrest batok sa negosyante nga si Charlie ”Atong Ang”‘ kag lima pa.
Ini gin-paguwa sang San Pablo Regional Trial Court sa Laguna halin sa RTC Branch 29 ni Judge Luvina Roque sa kaso nga kidnapping with serious illegal detention kaangot sa pagkadula sang mga sabungeros.
Lakip man sa listahan nga ginhatagan sang warrant sanday Ryan Jay Orapa, Alfredo Uy Andes, Philip Almedilla, Joey Encarnacion kag Aaron Ezrah Cabillan.
Ang nasambit nga kaso ang wala sang piyansa.
Sa matandaan nga padayon nga ginapangita sang mga otoridad si Ang kag may ara sang nakapatong nga P10 million para sa pagpangita sa iya.
Suportado sang isa ka travel industry group ang pagrepaso sang Kamara sa pagsulundan sa pagpanukot sang travel tax.
Suno sa Global Tourism Business Association (GTBA), importante ang pag-review bangud makabulig ini nga masiguro nga makabenepisyo gid ang sektor sang turismo kag ang lokal nga komunidad sa travel tax.
Subong, nagalab-ot na ang suktanay sa P2,700 sa first-class passengers kag P1,620 sa economy travelers.
Sang Sabado, matandaan nga nagpanawagan si House tourism committee vice chairman kag Palawan Representative Gil Acosta sang pagpatigayon sang congressional review sa utilization sang travel taxes nga ginasukot sa mga Pinoy nga nagabyahe sa luwas sang pungsod.
Suno sa mamalidha, ini nga travel tax collections ang may average nga P4 billion tubtub sa P5 billion kada tuig.
Kahapon, Pebrero 10, gin-anunsyo naman sang Malacañang nga lakip sa 21 ka priority legislative measures nga aprubado ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
ang hagna nga maga-abolish sa travel tax.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Claire Castro, luyag sang presidente nga mapahagan-hagan ang palas-anon nga pinansyal sang mga byahero, ilabi na nga indi tanan naga-byahe agud maglagaw lamang kundi agud magtrabaho kag bangud may kadtuan nga emerhensya.
May yara sang mga kahangawa nga mabuhinan ang pondo sa edukasyon kag sa promosyon sang turismo kun i-abolish ang travel tax, apang suno kay Castro, iga-cover sang gobyerno ang mangin kakulangan sa pondo paagi sa national budget.#
Marcos, opisyal na nga naangkon ang isa ka tuig nga proteksyon sa impeachment
Opisyal na nga nakakuha si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
sang isa ka tuig nga immunity sa impeachment proceedings.
Ini ang kasunod sang pag-apruba sang plenaryo sang Kamara sa report sang justice committee nga nagabasura sang duha ka impeachment complaints nga gin-file batok sa presidente.
284 ka mga mamalidha ang nagboto-pabor sa findings sang panel, walo ang nagbalabag, samtang apat naman ang nag-abstain.
Kun basehan ang Konstitusyon, ang sin-o man nga impeachable official kaangay sang Presidente ang mahimo lamang mapaidalom sa isa ka impeachment proceeding sa kada tuig.
Buot silingon sini, kun may luyag man nga mag-file sang impeachment complaint batok kay Marcos, kinahanglan anay nga maghulat sa Enero 2027.
Matandaan nga antes sang pag-apruba sa plenaryo, sang nagligad nga semana, gindeklarar sang justice committee nga “insufficient in substance” ang impeachment complaints batok kay Marcos.
Matandaan nga ang nag-file sang una nga complaint amo si Atty.
De Jesus kag gin-endorso ni Pusong Pinoy Partylist Rep.
Ang ikaduha naman nga complaint ang ginduso ni Liza Maza, Teodoro A.
Neri Colmenares, kag iban pa, kag gin-endorse naman nanday ACT Teachers Partylist Rep.
Matapos ang dismissal sang duha ka complaints batok kay Marcos, nagahanda naman subong ang House justice committee sa hearing sang impeachment petitions nga ginpasaka batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.#
Legarda, pa-imbestigaran ang ginaalegar network ni Epstein sa Pilipinas
Nagaplano si Senator Loren Legarda nga mag-file sang resolusyon agud nga imbestigaran ang ginapahayag nga “network” sa Pilipinas sang nagtaliwan na nga convicted American sex offender nga si Jeffrey Epstein.
Ini kasunod sang nagguwa nga report nga nag-hire si Epstein sang team nga naka-base diri sa pungsod sang 2010 agud nga mapanas sa iya nga pangalan ang mga kriminal niya nga mga buluhaton.
Gintabunan ang mga negative link sa internet, kag gin-promote naman ang mga positibo kaangot sa amo nga indibidwal.
Ginhimo ang madamo nga mga link sa mga websites kag sa pages online agud nga mapalapnag sa publiko nga involved si Epstein sa mga positibo nga aktibidad kaangay sa philanthropy, science, sports, kag iban pa.
Ginmuno naman ni Legarda ang iya plano nga resolusyon sa plenaryo sang nag-sponsor siya sa committee report sa Senate Bill 1819 ukon ang Expanded Anti-Online Sexual Abuse or Exploitation of Children (OSAEC) kag Anti-Child Sexual Abuse or Exploitation Materials (CSAEM) Act.
Suno kay Legarda, hingyuon nila sa Department of Justice kag sa National Bureau of Investigation partikular sa Committee on Women agud nga ma-imbestigaran ang amo nga ginapahayag network ni Epstein.
Importante nga mahibaluan kun sin-o ini suno kay Legarda, ilabi na nga wala man sila naga-operate bilang sex network kundi nagagamit sang front kaangay sang pagpakuno-kuno bilang negosyo ukon iban nga sector.
Hibaluon man suno kay Legarda ang posible nga mga organisasyon kag sindikato nga nagtrabaho kaupod kay Epstein.
Matandaan nga gin-release sang United States Department of Justice ang mga dokumento nga naga-unod sang minilyon nga internal records nga kaangot sa mga kriminal nga aktibidad sang amo nga sex offender.
Nabulgar nga naka-establisar sang relasyon si Epstein sa mga gamhanan nga mga indibidwal sa pulitika, sa negosyo, kag mga eskwelahan antes siya na-convict sang 2008 sa kaso nga prostitusyon.
Naaresto si Epstein sang 2019 bangud sa trafficking kag pag-abuso sa mga kabataan nga babaye sa US kag sa abroad, apang napatay siya sa presuhan samtang ginahulat ang trial.
Gin-anunsyo sang Chinese embassy sang Pilipinas nga ginadumilian nga makasulod sa China, Hong Kong, kag Macao ang mga opisyal halin sa munisipalidad sang Kalayaan sa Palawan.
Ginlista sang embahada ang 16 ka mga pangalan sang mga local officials nga suno sa ila indi “welcome” nga magsulod sa nasambit nga mga teritoryo.
Ginhimo ini sang China matapos gindeklarar sang Kalayaan nga persona non grata ang Chinese ambassador to the Philippines nga si Jing Quan bangud sa paglapas sang diplomatic protocol kag pagpanghilabot sa internal affairs sa Pilipinas.
Gin-aprubahan ang resolusyon sang Enero 27, apang antes sini, may kaangay man nga resolusyon sang Agusto 2023 nga nagdeklarar nga persona non grata sa Kalayaan si anay Chinese ambassador to the Philippines Huang Xilian.
Ginpaguwa ang deklarasyon sang amo nga tion bangud ginbombahan sang China Coast Guard sang water cannon ang mga barko sang Philippine Coast Guard sa Ayungin ukon Second Thomas Shoal.
Ang Kalayaan amo ang isahanon nga munisipalidad sang Pilipinas nga yara sa West Philippine Sea.
Fishers’ group, nagpaandam vs importasyon kasunod sang report nga naganubo ang produksyon sa pungsod
Nagpaandam ang fishers’ group nga Pambansang Lakas ng Kilusang Mamamalakaya ng Pilipinas (Pamalakaya) batok sa padayon nga importasyon sang isda.
Suno sa grupo, may nagguwa nga report sa pagsarurot sang produksyon sang isda, apang indi ini dapat paghimuon nga rason sang Department of Agriculture (DA) agud nga mag-import na naman sang tonelada nga suplay bangud maapektuhan sini ang local nga mga manugpangisda.
Ang ginatumod nga report sang grupo amo ang ginbalhag sang international conservation organization nga Oceana nga naganubo sang 45,000 metric tons ang mahulik nga mga isda sa Pilipinas sa kada tuig.
Ang ginplastar nga mga rason amo ang overfishing, illegal fishing, kag ang maluya nga pagpatuman sang fisheries law.
Suno naman sa Pamalakaya, ginapabay-an sang gobyerno ang ikaayo sang sektor sang mga manugpangisda ilabi na ang municipal fisheries subsector.
Halin sang 2018 suno sa grupo, masobra sa 200,000 metric tons sang isda lakip na ang tamudyos ang gina-import halin sa China, Taiwan, kag Vietnam.
Bilang resulta, nagnubo man ang farmgate prices ukon ang presyo sang hulik sang local fisherfolk.
“Ito ang dapat na mapagpasya at konkretong inaaksyunan ng pamahalaan, imbes na mag-angkat ng tone-toneladang isda na higit na pumipinsala sa lokal na produksyon,” kabahin sang statement sang grupo.
Una naman sila nagpaandam nga mas magaluya ang municipal fisheries production kasunod sang ruling sang korte nga nagatugot sa commercial fishing vessels nga mag-operate sa sulod sang 15-kilometer municipal waters.
Bong Go, Robin Padilla, ginklaro nga indi sila magbiya sa Senate minority bloc
Ginklaro nanday Senator Bong Go kag Senador Robin Padilla nga indi sila magbiya sa Senate minority bloc.
Ini sa tunga sang huring-huring nga may pila ka mga senador nga nagatuyo nga magsaylo sa majority bloc.
Antes nag-adjourn ang session, nakit-an sanday Padilla kag Go nga may ginasulat.
Nagpakita man sila sang Duterte signature fist bump kag ginpakita ang papel nga may nakasulat nga: “Duterte bloc kami.
Nag-caption naman si Go sa iya post nga: “Solid Duterte bloc kami!
Ang ginatumod sini nga tatlo amo siya, si Padilla, kag si Senador Bato dela Rosa nga nangindulaan halin sang Nobyembre 2025 bangud sa report nga nagguwa na ang arrest warrant sang International Criminal Court (ICC) para sa iya.
“Unahin ang trabaho, at huwag ang pulitika dahil serbisyong maayos at totoo ang nais makita at maramdaman ng taumbayan,” kabahin sang press release ni Go.
Senate plenary session, makaduha gin-suspend bangud sa pagbaisay nanday Cayetano kag Pangilinan
Nag-initay ang diskusyon nanday Senator Kiko Pangilinan kag Senate Minority Leader Alan Peter Cayetano sa plenaryo kun sa diin gina-istoryahan ang Senate Resolution No.
256 nga nagakondena sang mga pahayag sang Chinese embassy sa Manila batok sa mga opisyal kag institusyon sang Pilipinas.
Nagsentro ang baisay sang duha ka mga senador sa paggamit ni PCG spokesperson for the West Philippine Sea Commodore Jay Tarriela sang caricature ni Chinese President Xi Jinping kadungan sang isa ka speaking engagement.
Sa amo nga debate, gin-insister ni Cayetano nga nakasala si Tarriela.
Delikado ini suno sa iya kun diplomasya ang istoryahan.
Ini ang rason suno sa iya nga indi masuportahan sang Senate minority si Tarriela sa amo nga resolusyon ni Pangilinan.
Nagsabat naman si Pangilinan nga wala man gani na-mensyonar ang pangalan ni Tarriela sa resolusyon.
Ang ginatumod suno kay Pangilinan amo ang pangkabug-usan nga social media operations sang embahada sang China.
Kun istoryahan naman ang caricature suno kay Pangilinan, amo man gani sini ang ginahimo sang China kaangay sang Chinese state-controlled media outlet nga Xinhua nga masami naga-publish sang caricatures ni President Bongbong Marcos.
Gin-suspend na ang sesyon sang nagpamangkot si Cayetano nga kun amo sini ang panindugan ni Pangilinan, mahimo bala suno sa iya nga maka-post man ang iya staff sang meme nga nagapakita sang itsura sang senador.
Liwat nga nagtaas ang tensyon sa tunga nanday Cayetano kag Pangilinan sang gina-istoryahan kun ano gid nga statement sang Chinese embassy ang gina-istoryahan nila sa Senate Resolution No.
“Lahat ng sabihin ng Chinese embassador, mali, eh paano kung sabihin niya ‘good morning’, ‘ni hao’?
Bawal nang mag-good morning sa Pilipinas?,” pamangkot ni Cayetano.
Ginsabat ini ni Pangilinan nga klaro man ang mga ‘whereas’ sa resolusyon, kag kun mag-research si Cayetano, mahibaluan sini kun ano ang ginatumod.
Nag-raise sang point of order si Cayetano, apang nanindugan si Pangilinan nga wala pa ini nakatapos sa paghambal.
Diri na kag gin-suspend ang plenary session.
Sang ulihi, gin-aprubahan kag gin-adoptar sa Senado ang Senate Resolution No.
Ini nga resolusyon ang ginduso sang majority bloc nga ginabug-usan sang sponsor nga si Sen.
Nagkabos naman ang Senado nga maaprubahan ang proposal nga ideklarar nga persona non grata ang Chinese embassy deputy spokesperson ukon ang bisan sin-o nga Chinese diplomat.#
Marcos, nagalaum nga magabisita si Trump sa Pilipinas subong nga tuig
nga magabisita si United States President Donald Trump sa Pilipinas para sa palaabuton nga Association of Southeast Nations (ASEAN) Summit.
Ini nga tuig amo man ang 80th anniversary sang diplomatic relations sa tunga sang Manila kag Washington.
Ginhinambit ini ni Marcos kadungan sang presentasyon sang logo sang pagkomemorar sang Philippines-US Diplomatic Relations sa Malacañang, Pebrero 9.
Katapusan nga nakabisita si Trump sa Pilipinas sang 2017 samtang naga-host man ang pungsod sang ASEAN Summit.
Ulihi naman nga nakakit-anay sanday Marcos kag Trump sa Washington D.C.
sang nagligad nga tuig kun sa diin gin-istoryahan ang dugang nga taripa nga sukton sang US sa Philippine exports.
Sa anibersaryo naman sang US kag Pilipinas subong nga tuig, gina-antisipar nga iga-highlight ang masangkad kag malawig na nga military cooperation sang duha ka pungsod.
Ang Pilipinas amo ang isa sa pinakamalawig na nga kaalyado sang US kun depensa ang pagahambalan sa Asia-Pacific region.
Malapit 130 ka bag-o nga mga pulis, biktima sang hazing
Gin-aresto kag ginpahalin sa pwesto ang kapin 70 ka miyembro sang Philippine National Police-Regional Mobile Battalion 14-B sa idalom sang Police Regional Office-Bangasamoro Autonomous Region bangud sa pagsakit sa 128 ka mga bag-o nga pulis sa reception rites sa Lamitan City, Basilan.
Ang mga biktima ang lunsay bag-o gin-assign sa headquarters sang RMFB 14-B kag bag-o lamang nakagradwar sang Basic Internal Security Traininig.
Ang natabo nga hazing ang nakuhaan pa sang video kag nag-viral.
Ginkakas man sa pwesto ang 12 ka police non-commissioned officers nga direkta nga involved sa hazing.
Sa mga biktima, 18 ang nag-file na sang reklamo.
Ginalauman naman nga magapasaka man sang complaint ang iban pa.
Mangatubang sang administrative kag criminal cases ang mga pulis nga involved sa pagpanakit.
Makit-an sa video nga ginpaluhod, ginhampak, ginsumbag, kag ginkastigo ang mga biktima.
Detained naman subong ang mga pulis nga nagpanakit sang mga bag-o nga miyembro sang RMFB 14.
Presyo sang diesel, madugangan sang piso umpisa buas; kerosene kag gasoline, may dugang nga 60 sentimos kada litro
Liwat nga magataas ang presyo sang gasolina subong nga semana, ini na ang ikalima nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga nagtaas ini.
Samtang, ika-pito naman nga sunod-sunod nga semana ang pagtaas para presyo sa diesel kag sa kerosene.
Gasolina-magataas sang P0.60 Diesel- magataas sang P1.00 Kerosene-magataas sang P0.60
Epektibo ini las sais buwas nga adlaw sang Martes, Pebrero 10.
Una na nga nag-project ang Department of Energy–Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) sang pagtaas sang produktong petrolyo nga gina-aangot sa de-escalation sa tunga sang United States kag Iran.
Impeachment complaint batok kay PBBM, ginpabakod pa ang pagbasura; samtang VP Sara Duterte, ginpasakaan man sang bag-o nga reklamo
Ginpabakod pa sang House Committee on Justice sa boto nga 39 nga nagpabor, apat ang nagpamatok, kag zero ang nag-abstain, nga ibasura ang impeachment complaint batok kay Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Nagakahulugan ini nga kadam-an sang myembro sang komitiba ang nagsuporta sa pagbasura sang reklamo.
Suno sa komitiba, kulang sa substance ang mga alegasyon sa impeachment complaints.
Apisar pa nga gin-acknowledge nila nga insakto ang reklamo, ila napamaud-an nga wala sang nagakaigo ang ebidensya kag basehan agud magpadayon sa impeachment proceedings.
Nahibaluan nga may duha ka impeachment complaints nga ginpasaka batok sa Presidente, lakip ang ginfile sang isa ka pribado nga abogado kag sang mga miyembro sang Makabayan bloc.
Ini na ang ikatatlo nga reklamo batok sa iya matapos mag-file ang pila ka mga religious groups kag mga abogado bangud sa gina-alegar nga betrayal of public trust, graft and corruption kag iban pa.
May kaangtanan man ini sa ginapatihan nga paggamit sang indi magnubo nga P612 milyon nga confidential funds.
Amando Virgil Ligutan, abogado sang mga nagreklamo, iya ginpahayag nga ila ginabase ang ikatatlo nga impeachment complaint sa mga natukiban sang House committee on good government and public accountability nahanungod sa paggamit sang confidential funds sang Office of the Vice President (OVP) kag sang Department of Education sa idalom ni Duterte.
Nagabakho ang mga construction worker sa pungsod sa nangin epekto sang flood control scandal sa sektor sang konstruksyon partikular na sa trabaho sang small-time laborers.
Lakip sa mga kabudlayan nga ginplastar amo ang pagpangita sang trabaho bangud nangin limitado na lamang ini subong sa pribado nga sektor.
Suno sa National Union of Building and Construction Workers, nag-partner na sila sa Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) kag sa Technical Education And Skills Development Authority (TESDA) agud nga mabuligan ang ila nga sector nga makatuon sang dugang nga skills kaangay sang welding, scaffolding, kag safety officers’ training bisan sang limitado nga budget.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang rekord sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) nga ang construction industry amo ang may pinakadaku nga pagnubo sa employment sang nagligad nga tuig.
Nagnubo ang numero sang workers sa 4.80 million sang December 2025 halin sa 5.35 million sang December 2024 ukon buot silingon may yara sang 550,000 job losses.
Gina-angot ini sang PSA sa natabo nga eskandalo sang 2025 nga naangot sa flood control corruption.#
Imee Marcos, nanginwala nga siya ang sa likod sang palpak nga kudeta sa Senado
Ginpanginwala ni Senator Imee Marcos nga siya ang yara sa likod sang tuyo nga pagkakas kay Senate President Vicente “Tito” Sotto III sa posisyon.
Sa iya nga official statement, ginsiling sang presidential sister nga bisan ang minority bloc ang makapamatuod nga isa siya sa mga katapusan nga nakahibalo sa tuyo nga kudeta.
Ginpanindugan man sang senadora nga ang gintuyo nga kudeta ang wala naangot sa pagpahalin sa iya bilang chairperson sang Senate committee on foreign relations.
Sa pagkamatuod suno sa iya, sang ginhatag sa iya ang amo nga komitiba bisan nga indi man siya katapo sang majority bloc, tuman gid ang iya pagpasalamat sa Senate President.
Matandaan nga si Sotto mismo ang nagsambit sang pangalan ni Imee nga amo ang nagpanguna sa tuyo nga kudeta, apang napaslawan bangud kulang sila sa numero sa minority.
Matandaan nga una na nagpaathag ang Senate leaders nga ginkakas si Marcos bilang chairperson sang Committee on Foreign Relations bangud nagkasugot ang majority bloc paagi sa caucus nga ini nga major committee ang dapat nga pamunuan sang senador nga halin man sa majority bloc.
Antes sini, may 15 ka mga senador nga nagpirma sang ginaproponer nga resolusyon nga nagapakamalaot sang mga pahayag sang Chinese Embassy batok sa Filipino officials.
Wala nagpirma si Imee sa amo nga resolusyon, apang nagduso siya sang iya kaugalingon nga resolusyon nga nagapanawagan sa mga opisyal sang gobyerno nga maghagan-hagan kag mangin propesyunal kun may mga statement kaangot sa isyu nga may kaangtanan sa iban nga pungsod.#
Ping Lacson, nagpaandam batok sa mga traidor nga handa magbaligya sang pungsod
Nagpaandam si Senate President Pro Tempore Ping Lacson batok sa iya ginbansagan nga “homegrown traitors” ukon mga Pilipino nga nagatraidor kag handa nga ibaligya ang pungsod para sa personal nga interes.
Suno kay Lacson nga isa anay ka pulis nga may masangkad nga eksperyensya sa intelligence work, ini nga mga indibidwal kag ang technical intelligence amo ang pinaka-common nga ginahalinan sang impormasyon sa geopolitics.
Sa intelligence operations suno kay Lacson, ginatawag ini nga ‘recruitment in place.’
Pahayag sini, mas epektibo ini para sa mga foreign entities ipaanggid sa pag-deploy sang mga agent bangud kinahanglan pa ang tinuig nga pagtuon sang lenggwahe kag cover-building.
Ini nga opinyon ni Lacson ang naangot sa pamangkot kun makabig bala nga mga traidor ang mga Pinoy nga mga opisyal kag social media personalities nga daw kaangay nga nagadampig sa China kag sa ila propaganda sa West Philippine Sea.
Ini nga klase sang mga indibidwal suno sa senador amo ang “vulnerable targets” bangud handa sila sa pagbaligya sang ila kaugalingon nga pungsod.
Ginklaro ni Lacson nga nagahambal siya sa “general principles” sang geopolitics kag intelligence kag wala nagahimo sang direkta nga akusasyon sa pila sa iya mga kaupdanan sa Senado nga ginatawag sang mga kritiko nga pro-China senators ukon mga “Tsinador.”
Cambodia, ginkumpirmar nga wala sa ila pungsod ang pugante nga si Atong Ang
Ginkumpirmar sang Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation sang Cambodia nga wala sa ila pungsod ang pugante nga si Atong Ang.
Base sa ila social media statement, ginpahayag sang Ministry of Foreign Affairs sang Cambodia nga wala ang mga ini sang na-record nga pagsulod ukon pagwa ni Ang sa ila pungsod.
Ini nga pahayag sang Cambodia ang baliskad sa nauna nga nangin pahayag sang Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) nga yara si Ang sa Cambodia.
Matandaan nga gindagdgan sang Arrest warrant si Ang bangud sa patong-patong sini nga kaso nga kidnapping with homicide kag serious illegal detention may kaangatanan sa kaso sang ‘missing sabungeros’.
Legal team ni Former President Duterte, nag-request sa ICC nga tugutan sila nga magdugang sang 78 ka ebidensya para sa nagahilapit nga hearing sang anay Presidente
Nag-request ang legal team ni Former President Rodrigo Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC) nga tugutan sila nga magdugang sang 78 ka ebidensya para sa nagahilapit nga hearing sa confirmation of charges sang anay Presidente sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Sa pagpanguna sang abogado ni Duterte nga si Nicholas Kaufman, nag-request sila sa ICC Pre-Trial Chamber 1, nga naghingyo sang mga dugang nga ebidensya, bilang paghanda sa kaso, ilabi na matapos nga magpahayag ang prosekusyon sang 1,242 ka items sang ebidensya batok kay Duterte.
Ginpunto nila nga ang request nasumiter 15 ka adlaw antes ang hearing, suno sa ICC rules, kag ang pagdugang sang ebidensya indi makadelay sa proseso kag indi makaapekto sa prosekusyon.
Suno man sa ila, ang legal representatives sang mga biktima bag-o pa lang na-appoint, gani ang pagdugang sang ebidensya indi makapektar sa ila mga katungdanan.
Gin-mensyonar sang kampo ni Duterte nga kun indi pagtugutan ang request, mahimo gid ini makapahina sang depensa ni Duterte sa pagpanindugan sang iya kaso.
Biktima sang motornapping sa Tagbak Terminal, nagpa-BOMBO!
Ginpa-Bombo sang isa ka biktima nga ginkawatan sang motorsiklo sa Tagbak terminal ang CCTV footage sang pagpangawat sa iya motor nga onse na sini ka tuig nga service sa trabaho kag ginkwat ini sang tinalikdan nga Enero 31.
Separado man ini sa natabo sang nagligad nga motornapping malapit sa Land Transportation Office kun sa diin nakuha man ang motorsiklo nga ginapanag-iyahan ni ZJ Cenar sa Brgy.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Butch Marterior ang ginkawatan sang motorsiklo, iya ginpahayag nga nagpawashing lang ini sang iya motorsiklo kag ginpark lang sini anay sang makadali agud nga pahurawon ang ulan sadto nga adlaw.
Suno pa sa iya nga lima lamang ka metros sini ang iya kalayuon sa motorsiklo kag kun sa diin ini siya nahamtang, apang wala gid ini maglaom nga makawat ang iya motor nga suno pa sa iya nagsalig man ini kay may ara man sang iban pa nga upod nga motorsiklo ang iya motor.
Dugang pa sini nga mga 30 minutos ang iya ginhulat antes maghuraw ang ulan apang sang ginkadtuan na sini ang iya motorsiklo wala na sini ini makit-an kun sa diin sini ginbilin.
Nakasecure naman ini sang CCTV footage apang indi klaro bangud madulom ini.
Suno pa kay Marterior, tuman ka dako nga huol ang ginhalit sini sa iya bangud nga mabudlay para sa iya nga mag-commute pakadto sa iya trabaho.
Sa karon nagapangayo ini sang kooperasyon sa mga pumuluyo nga kun sin o man ang nakakita ukon sin o man ang ginbaligyaan sa iya nga kun pwede magkooperar sa mga kapulisan agud mabalik sa iya ang iya motor.
Pila ka mga pulitiko, ginagamit sang China agud magpahuyang sang posisyon sang Pilipinas sa West Philippine Sea —WPS
Ginagamit sang China ang pila ka mga Pilipino nga pulitiko diri sa Pilipinas agud nga mapaluya ang posisyon sang pungsod sa West Philippine Sea.
Suno kay Ordaniel, kabahin ini sang Chinese malign influence and foreign interference diri sa Pilipinas.
Wala sang ginhambal nga pangalan si Ordaniel kun sin-o nga pulitiko ang iya ginatumod, apang gin-halimbawa sini ang ginhambal sang senador nga wala sang coordinates ang Philippine exclusive economic zone sa West Philippine Sea.
Matandaan nga subong nga semana sang nangin mainit ang debate nanday Senador Rodante Marcoleta kag Senador Francis Pangilinan kaangot sa takos, kalaparon, kag grid coordinates sang West Philippine Sea.
Natabo ang komento ni Marcoleta sa Senate plenary session sang ginadiskusyunan ang Senate Resolution 256 nga nagatukso sa Chinese officials sa ila nga mga pahayag batok sa Philippine officials.
Matandaan nga sang 2024 pa lang, ginkumpirma na sang National Intelligence Coordinating Agency (NICA) nga may yara sang Chinese malign influence and foreign interference (MIFI) activities diri sa Pilipinas kag wala sang rehiyon nga exempted sa ila nga impluwensya.
Ginapahayag nga ini nga interference ang naga-target sang democratic processes, legislative bodies, kag local governance agud nga maduso ang interes sang China sa teritoryo kag seguridad.#
Narekord nga patay sa Pilipinas bangud sa Bagyo Basyang, naglab-ot na sa walo
Naglab-ot na sa walo ka mga patay ang narekord sa pungsod matapos ang dala nga halit sang Bagyo Basyang.
Apat diri amo ang halin sa Cagayan de Oro kun sa diin biktima ang mga ini sang landslide.
Yara naman sa tatlo ang patay sa Iligan City, samtang isa ang nalumos sa Agusan del Norte.
Nahibaluan nga padayun pa ang validation sang Office of the Civil Defense sa numero sang mga napatay sa bagyo.
China, nagagamit sang pseudo-experts agud magpalapta sang kabutigan angot sa West PH Sea
Nagakatunga ang mga Pilipino sa posisyon sa pagdepensa sa West Philippine Sea bangud sang mga propagandista nga ginagamit sang China agud magpalapta sang disinformation ukon mga kabutigan.
Jeffrey Ordaniel, ang President kag Chief Executive Officer sang non-government, nonprofit, kag nonpartisan volunteer-based organization nga WPS ukon We Protect our Seas Inc., iya ginpahayag nga madamo ang mga pseudo-experts sa social media nga amo ang naga-impluwensya sa opinyon sang mga Pinoy.
Ang mga pseudo-expert amo ang mga indibidwal nga nagapakuno-kuno nga eksperto sa international law apang sa pagkamatuod suno kay Ordaniel, wala man sang credible nga background ukon madalom nga ihibalo kun ano gid ang isyu sa teritoryo nga gina-agaw sang China.
Partikular sini nga natuksuan ang pangalan ni Sass Rogando Sasot nga naga-eskwela sang PhD sa International Relations sa Beijing, China.
Bangud mabudlay nga balion ang claim sang Pilipinas sa West Philipine Sea kasunod sang 2016 Arbitral Ruling, diri na suno kay Ordaniel kag gina-atake na sang mga propagandista ang mga tawo mismo.
Gina-atake man gani sang mga propagandista pati si Retired Supreme Court Senior Associate Justice Antonio Carpio nga amo ang leading expert sa international law kag isa ka central figure sa pagdepensa sa sovereign rights sang Pilipinas sa West Philippine Sea.
Sa tunga sini nga disinformation campaign, importante gid suno kay Ordaniel nga mabatuan ini sang Pilipinas paagi sa mga eskwelahan kag pagpadayon sang transparency initiative sang gobyerno ukon ang pagbulgar sang mga pagka-agresibo sang China.#
Tarriela, ginapuntariya sang China agud mauntat ang transparency policy sa West Philippine Sea —WPS
Nabulgar kun ano ka agresibo ang China sa pag-agaw kag pang-angkon sang West Philippine Sea paagi sa transparency initiative sang gobyerno.
ukon We Protect our Seas Inc., iya ginpahayag nga ginaguba sang sini nga polisa ang “salami slicing” strategy sang China.
Ini nga estratehiya sang China amo ang amat-amat lang nga pagpangkuha ukon pagpang-akon tubtub nga dalayon na nila nga makuha ang bilog nga teritoryo.
Ginhalimbawa sini ang pag-okupar sang China sa Mischief Reef sang 1995 kag ang standoff sa Scarborough Shoal ukon sa Bajo de Masinloc sang 2012.
Halin sang amo nga tuig, didto na nagatinir ang mga barko sang China Coast Guard amo man ang militia vessels kag Navy.
Suno kay Ordaniel, bangud sa transparency initiative kun sa diin may Philippine Coast Guard kag may media nga aktibo sa pagbulgar sa pagka-agresibo sang China, gina-target naman nila subong ang Philippine officials partikular ang spokesperson sang PCG sa West Philippine Sea nga si Commodore Jay Tarriela nga amo ang pinaka-popular nga messenger sa amo sini nga isyu.
Pahayag sini, ginapaguwa sang Chinese officials nga ginaguba ni Tarriela ang relasyon sang Pilipinas kag China, apang ang matuod nila nga intensyon amo nga pauntaton ini sa pagwaragwag kun ano ang matuod nga hitabo sa EEZ sang Pilipinas.
Sa una nga tatlo ka semana sang 2026, at least 15 ka mga separado nga Facebook posts kag statements sang Chinese embassy ang naga-target kay Tarriela nga talalupangdon nga wala man nila anay ginahimo sang una sa iban nga Filipino officials.#
Bagyo Basyang, nagbilin sang lima ka patay kag linibo ka mga residente nga nag-evacuate
Nagbilin sang lima ka patay kag linibo naman ka mga residente ang nag-evacuate halin sa ila nga mga balay bangud sa halit nga dala sang Bagyo Basyang.
Tuman ka dako naman ang epekto sang bagyo sa mga pamilya sa syudad sang Cagayan de Oro, kun sa diin isa ka landslide sa Barangay Agusan ang nagpatay sa apat ka miyembro sang pamilya dala na diri ang mag-asawa kag duwa ka mga bata.
Sa Iligan City, Lanao del Norte, isa ka radio broadcaster ang napatay bangud sa cardiac arrest matapos ginsul-ob sang tubig-baha ang iya apartment.
Gindeklarar man ang state of calamity sa amo nga syudad agud magamit ang calamity fund para sa relief operations kag makaayo ang naguba nag mga pasilidad kasunod sang malapad nga pagbaha, landslide, kag halit sa imprastraktura.
Suno kay Junie Castillo, spokesperson sang Office of the Civil Defense, madamo sa mga probinsya ang sa karon wala sang suplay sang kuryente kag ang iban napilitan na lang nga mag-evacuate.
Sa Misamis Oriental masobra 32,700 ka tawo ang nag-evacuate, samtang sa Camiguin naman masobra 2,100 ka tawo ang naghalalin sa ila mga balay.
Mabaskog naman ang epekto sang bagyo sa Cebu nga nagbilin sang 350 ka mga pasahero nga na-stranded sa nagkalain-lain nga pantalan.
Sa kabilugan nga probinsya sang Cebu 58 ka mga evacuation centers ang ginpahamtang agud masayluhan sang mga apektado.
Ginkansela naman sang Police Regional Office 7 ang tanan nga leave sang mga pulis kag ginpatuman ang “heightened alert” status.
Bagyo Basyang, nagluya na kag nahimo na lamang nga LPA
Nagluya kag nahimo na lamang nga low pressure area ukon LPA ang Bagyo Basyang samtang nagahulag ini sa direksyon nga pa-nakatundan sa kadagatan sang Sulu.
Sa alas singko sa kaagahon nga weather bulletin, ulihi nga nakit-an ang low pressurea area sa kalayuon nga 105 km/h Southeast sang Cuyo, Palawan.
Ginbawi naman sang Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration ang wind signal sa tanan nga mga lugar sa pungsod.
Apang suno pa sa ahensya, mabatyagan sa gihapon ang northeast monsoon ukon amihan kag magadala sang pagmadlos sang hangin ilabi na sa mga coastal areas sang Luzon, Western Visayas, Negros Island Region, kag Zamboanga del Norte subong nga adlaw.
Samtang mahinay ang hulag sang LPA kag bangud sa indi paborable nga kondisyon sang agyan sini, daku ang tsansa suno sa ahensya nga matunaw na ini samtang yara pa lamang sa kadagatan sang Sulu.
Antes nagluya ang bagyo, duha ka adlaw ini nga nagdala sang pag-ulan kag pagbaha sa Visayas kag Mindanao.
Lima ka beses man ini nga nag-landfall samtang yara sa sulod sang Philippine Area of Responsibility.
Natabo ini sa Bayabas, Surigao del Sur bilang isa ka tropical storm.
Bilang tropical depression, sunod ini nga nag-landfall sa Jagna, Bohol kahapon sang aga; sa Dauis, Bohol kahapon sang hapon; kag sa Alcoy, Cebu kag Ayungon, Negros Oriental kagab-i.
Si Basyang amo ang ikaduha nga bagyo sa Pilipinas subong nga 2026 kasunod kay Bagyo Ada sang Enero.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang state weather bureau nga possible nga isa lang ka bagyo ang ma-eksperyensyahan sa bulan sang Pebrero.
Diri sa syudad sang Iloilo, nag-anunsyo naman si Mayor Raisa Treñas nga magabalik na ang klase para sa mga may Saturday Classes bangud nga nag-ayo naman ang kondisyon sang panahon.
DOJ, nasumite na ang resolusyon sang reklamo nga plunder batok kay anay Rep.
Polo Martines nga nasumite na ang resolusyon sang reklamo nga plunder batok kay anay Ako Bicol Partylist Representative Zaldy Co nga gin-file sang Department of Justice.
Sa matandaan, nag-file ang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) sang plunder complaint batok sa anay mamalidha sa DOJ sang Enero 5 subong nga tuig.
May kaangtanan ini sa reklamo nga mga anomaliya nga flood control project sa Naujan, Oriental Mindoro.
Nadala man sa respondents ni Co ang pila ka mga opisyal sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) nga wala ginpangalanan.
Ginhatagan sang DOJ si Co sang extension tubtob Enero 15 para magsumite ini sang iya counter-affidavit.
Nangin pareho naman ini sa ginpreparar ni Co sa Korte Suprema nga petisyon nga may pareho nga petsa, kun sa diin ginpangabay sini nga mauntat na ang judicial proceeding sa mga kaso batok sa iya sa Sandiganbayan.
Nadala man sa petisyon ni Co ang apostille kun sa diin nakabutang nga sa Stockholm Sweden ini sang Enero 15, kabaliskaran sa una na nga ginpahayag nga sa Portugal ang anay mamalidha.
Atong Ang, nagsumiter sang mosyon para suspendihon ang proceedings sa mga kaso sini nga ginapangatubang
Nagsumiter ang kampo sang negosyante nga si Charlie ”Atong” Ang sang mosyon para suspendihon ang proceedings sa mga kaso sini nga ginapangatubang kaangot sa missing sabungeros.
Suno kay Department of Justice (DOJ) spokesperson Polo Martinez, ginsumite ini sang abogado ni Ang sa San Pablo Regional Trial Court (RTC).
Nahanungod ini sa kaso nga kidnapping with homicide kag kidnapping with serious illegal detention.
Bangud diri, ginpaiway anay sang korte ang pagpaguwa sang warrant of arrest kay Ang matapos ang pagsumite sini sang mosyon.
Suno naman kay Prosecutor General Richard Fadullon, ginpangabay sang korte ang mga respondent nga magsumite sang mga dokumento nahanungod sa kaso bilang counter-affidavits.
Ginsiguro naman sini nga magatuman kag maga-comply sila sa ginapangabay sang korte para mahibaluan kun san-o magapagwa sang warrant of arrest.
Dugang pa ni Fadullon nga kun ano man nga tikang sang korte amo man ang buhaton sang DOJ.
Ginkumpirmar ni Martinez nga nag-umpisa na ang hearing sa kaso ni Ang sa mga korte sang Lipa kag Sta.
Nahibaluan nga gin-anunsyo ni Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla nga magadugang sila sang P10-milyon nga reward para sa makatudlo kay Ang nga una na niya gintawag nga number 1 most wanted person sa Pilipinas.
DA, nag-alokar sang indi magkulang sa P300M para sa climate-resilient farming
Nag-alokar sang indi magkulang sa P300 million ang Department of Agriculture para sa tuig 2026 para palaparon ang climate-resilient farming sang mga high-value nga mga ulutanon kaangay sang kamatis, katumbal kag bell pepper.
nga ang pondo gin-alokar sa mga basic greenhouse, drip irrigation, kag water-impounding systems agud siguraduhon ang insakto nga pag-dumala sang mga pananom kag mabuhinan ang halit nga dala sang pabag-o bag-o nga tyempo.
Dugang pa ni Laurel ang katuyuan sang amo nga inisyatiba amo nga punggan ang liwat liwat nga pagtaas sang presyo sa ga balaklon bangud sa dala sang weather related nga pagaka-delay sang sa suplay.
Ini bangud kada tuig nagaka-eksperyensya sang tuman nga price swings ang mga high value nga mga utanon bangud sa mainit nga tyempo, mabaskog nga pag-ulan kag pagabaha nga nagaguba sa produksyon.
Sa idalom sang inisyatiba nga “White Revolution,” magabutang man ang DA sang mga rain shelter kag mas simple nga greenhouse structures para maproteksyunan batok sa mabaskog nga pag-ulan kag mabuhinan ang mga pagbaha kag halit sang peste sa mga panananom sang mga mangunguma.
Bagyo Basyang, yara na subong sa Cebu Strait
Padayon nga nagahulag ang Bagyo Basyang sa direksyon nga pa-nakatundan naaminhan-nakatundan kag yara na subong sa Cebu Strait.
bulletin sang state weather bureau, nakit-an ang sentro sang bagyo sa kadagatan nga sakop sang Dalaguete, Cebu.
Dala sini ang kabaskugon sang hangin nga 55 km/h malapit sa sentro kag pagmadlos nga tubtub sa 75 km/h.
Nagahulag ini west northwestward sa kadasigon nga 10 km/h.
1 ang Guimaras, Iloilo, Capiz, Antique kag ang Aklan ukon ang bilog nga Western Visayas.
Subong nga gab-i, lakip ang Capiz kag Iloilo sa ginpasaka sa Red Warning bangud sa mabaskog nga ulan nga posible magdala sang seryoso nga pagbaha kag pagtiphag sang duta.
Sa forecast track, maga-landfall ang bagyo sa southern portions sang Cebu kag Negros Oriental karon sa gab-i ukon buwas sa kaagahon.
Kasunod sini, magahulag ang bagyo pakadto sa southern portion sang Panay Island ukon sa Panay Gulf.
Sa masunod nga 12 oras, magaluya na ang bagyo kag mahimo nga low pressure area.
Haya sa isa ka balay, ginsul-ob sang tubig-baha
Indi lang perwisyo kundi daku nga trauma ang gindala ni Bagyo Basyang sa isa ka pamilya nga namatyan sang himata sa Brgy.
Bangud sang kataason sang tubig-baha nga halos lab-ot na sa liog sang tawo, ginpili sang pamilya ni Kent Kobe Opon nga hakwaton na lang ang lungon sa sulod sang ila balay kag isaylo sa ikaduha nga panalgan.
Nag-umpisa sa pagsaka ang tubig-baha sang alas dos kaina sang kaagahon.
Naghubas na ang tubig subong apang napuno sang lutak ang mga bulak kag ang iban pa nila nga mga kagamitan.
Nahibaluan nga sa bilog nga Northern Mindanao, lima ka mga tawo ang na-rekord nga napatay kag linibo ang napilitan nga magbiya anay sa ila nga mga balay bangud sa bagyo.
Sa Cagayan de Oro, apat ka mga myembro sang isa ka pamilya (mag-asawa kag duha ka hinablos) ang nagtaliwan bangud sa landslide.#
4 ka miyembro sang pamilya, patay sa landslide bangud sa bagyo Basyang
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang apat ka myembro sang pamilya sa Cagayan De Oro bangud sa pagluntad sang landslide sa tunga sang paglaslas ni bagyo Basyang.
Ang mga biktima nagalakip sang mag-asawa kag ila mga hinablos nga lunsay menor de edad.
Suno sa otoridad, natabunan gid sang duta ang balay sang amo nga pamilya sa Brgy.
Sambulawan, Agusan, Cagayan de Oro City.
Loren Legarda, wala sang ideya sa reports nga himuon siya nga Senate President
Nanindugan si Senator Loren Legarda nga wala siya sang ihibalo kaangot sa proposal nga himuon siya nga Senate President antes magtakop ang 20th Congress.
Suno kay Legarda, wala man siya sang ideya sa nagalapta nga impormasyon nga may term sharing ukon power sharing arrangement sa tunga nila ni incumbent Senate President Tito Sotto III.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Sotto nga napunggan sang majority bloc ang tuyo nga kakason siya sa pwesto.
Wala sini gindetalye kun paano nila napunggan ang kudeta, apang ang namensyonar sini nga plano amo nga i-eleher si Legarda bilang una nga babaye nga Senate President pagkatapos sang 2027 budget.
Gindugang sini nga wala ini nagakahulugan nga maga-share sila sang termino, bangud indi man patas ang ila tyempo sa pagpungko bilang lider sang Senado.
Depensa naman ni Legarda, wala siya nagakomento sa mga impormasyon nga wala man napahibalo sa iya.
Una naman nga nagdistansya ang mga senadora sa mga pamangkot kun gintanyagan gid man siya sang minority bloc nga magbulos bilang Senate President apisar nga parte siya subong sang majority.
Siya ang nag-preside antes nagtakop ang plenary session sang Myerkules.
Gintawag pa siya ni Majority Leader Miguel Zubiri bilang “Madame President” nga amo pa ang nagpatunog sang huring-huring sang kudeta.#
Trump, gin-imbitar si Marcos nga mangin kabahin sang Board of Peace
nga mangin kabahin sang “Board of Peace.”
Suno kay Romualdez, ginpadala ang imbitasyon paagi sa isa ka personal nga sulat halin kay Trump.
Wala pa sang deadline nga ginhatag kun san-o makakumpirma ukon makasabat ang Pilipinas sa amo nga imbitasyon, apang suno kay Romualdez, posible nga makahatag na sang commitment si Marcos sa masunod nga sinemana.
Ang kada founding member sang BOP ang gina-require nga maghatag sang $1 billion ukon P58.74-billion kada isa para sa pondo.
Ginklaro naman ni Romualdez nga bukas lamang ang Pilipinas sa paghatag sang non-monetary contributions kaangay sang human resources.
Ini nga board amo ang isa ka multinational body nga gintukod ni Trump sang Enero sa World Economic Forum sa Switzerland nga nagatuyo sa pagduso sang kalinong sa mga lugar nga apektado sang gyera sang Israel kag Hamas.
Ginalauman nga ini nga board ang makahatag sang strategic oversight kag makahulag sang international resources samtang gina-restore ang Gaza.
Pag-host ng Cebu sa ASEAN, nagpapalakas ng global competency ng mga estudyanteng volunteer
Habang ginaganap ang ASEAN Tourism Forum (ATF) 2026, tumatayong backbone ng kaganapan ang mga student volunteers na hindi lamang puno ng sigla kundi sinanay sa antas ng internasyonal na propesyonalismo.
Lupango ng DOT-7, sa pamamagitan ng HARANA Capacity Building Seminar, nahasa ang mga kabataan sa hospitality, protocol, at cross-cultural engagement, na nagpalakas sa kahandaan ng Cebu sa pag-host ng mga global events.
Kasama sa kanilang tungkulin ang pagiging billeting hotel aides, ushers sa ASEAN Tourism Awards, at suporta sa security operations.
Masobra 1,000 ka mga balay sa Tawi-Tawi, nasunog
Narekord ang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG), sang ginabulubanta masobra 1,000 ka mga balay nga nagkalaguba sa Barangay Lamion, Bongao sa Tawi-Tawi matapos ang sunog nga natabo kagab-i, Pebrero 4.
Suno sa mga otoridad nga madasig nga naglapta ang kalayo bangud sa mabaskog nga hangin nga naka-apekto sa mga lapitanay nga mga balay.
Gilayon naman nga nag-responde ang mga katapo sang Coast Guard Station (CGS) Central Tawi-Tawi sa lugar kaga naghatag sang bulig.
Gindala man ang apektado nga mga pamilya sa istasyon sang Coast Guard sa Tawi-Tawi para sa ila temporaryo nga matiniran kag matulugan.
Wala naman sang na-report nga may nasamaran ukon napatay sa nasambit nga insidente.
Kiko Barzaga, Liwat nga ginsuspende sang Kamara
Liwat nga ginsuspende sang Kamara si Cavite 4th District Representative Kiko Barzaga matapos makakuha ini sang 238 nga boto pabor sa mosyon.
Ini bangud sa liwat-liwat nga nagalala sini nga misconduct samtang ini ang sa una nga suspension halin Disyembre 1, 2025 tubtob Enero 30, 2026.
Kabahin sa nagboto amo ang representante sang Bagong Henerasyon kag Kamanggagawa party-lists.
Dugang pa diri ang Committee on Ethics and Privileges ang naghatag man sang rekomendasyon nga suspendihon si Barzaga matapos nga wala ini nagtambong sa mga committee hearing nahanungod sa mga bag-o nga akusasyon batok sa iya.
Samtang, suno kay House Committee on Ethics and Privileges Chair JC Abalos nagakaaapekto sa reputasyon sang Kamara ang mga ginabuhat ni Barzaga.
Sa pareho man nga sesyon, nagpahayag man si 1st District Representative Janette Garin sang iya boto nga pabor sa suspension nga suno sa iya gindesisyunan sini nga mabug-at sa iya tagipusuon.
Suno pa sa kongresista nga pila na ka beses nga gintagaan sini sang dako nga pasensya nga buligan kuntani ang anak sang iya anay upod sa trabaho nga si Congressman Pidi Barzaga, apang tuman kabudlay ini paintindihon.
Ginkadlawan lamang ini ni Barzaga kag gintawag pa sini bilang isa ka dramatic ang pahayag ni Garin.
Apisar nga madamo sang pabor sa suspension ni Barzaga, pila naman ka mga mamalidha ang nagpahayag sang ila suporta sa suspended congressman.
Ginpunto man ni Barzaga nga dapat mas nakatuon ang Kongreso sa mga urgent concerns sang mga Pilipino kag indi sa iya.
Mga senador, nagaplano nga himuon nga Senate President si Sen.
Nagaplano ang kadam-an sa senado nga himuon nga Senate President si Senator Loren Legarda bag-o matapos ang 20th Congress.
Suno kay Senate President Vicente Sotto III nga wala sang kasugtanan nga tung-on ang termino para sa Senate Presidency apang ginbunyag sini nga plano sang kadam-an nga himuon ini nga Senate President bag-o matapos ang 20th Congress si Legarda.
Ang 20th Congress magatapos sa Hunyo 30, 2028 kag sin-o man nga senador nga makakuha sang 13 ka boto mangin Senate President.
Sa natabo sa plenary session sang Senado kahapon nga adlaw nag-adjourn ang sesyon nga si Legarda ang nagdumala kag gintawag siya ni Senate Majority Leader Miguel Zubiri nga “Madame President.”
Ini natabo matapos ang malawig nga break sa plenary session kag kadungan man sa nagapadayon nga huring huring nga plano nga coup sa Senado.
Sang nag-resume na ang sesyon, nagbulos sa floor si Zubiri samtang si Legarda naman ang nagpwesto sa podium nga pirme ginahamtangan nanday Senate President Vicente Sotto III ukon Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson bilang presiding officer.
Francis Pangilinan sang ila laragway kaupod sanday Legarda, Zubiri, Sotto, Lacson, kag mga senador nga sanday JV Ejercito, Win Gatchalian, Bam Aquino kag Risa Hontiveros nga nagahatagay sang pagkaon sa isa ka conference room.
Ginbutangan man sini sang caption nga ”#Powersharing.”
Sang ginpamangkot kun matuod ini nagsabat lamang si Sen.
Samtang, suno naman kay Senator JV Ejercito nga nagka-tyempo lang sila nga maka-estoryahanay nga gintawag sini nga lounge talk lamang kag wala sang formal talk nahanungod diri.
Suno kay Sotto ang kadam-an permi ang nagadesisyon sa liderato kag suno sa iya nga permi ini ongoing.
Dugang pa sini nga ginbalibadan man ni Legarda ang ini nga posisyon.
Pila mga mamalidha sa Kamara, ginpakigbato ang mga impeachment proceeding batok kay PBBM
Ginpakigbato sang pila mga mamalidha sa Kamara ang mga impeachment proceeding batok kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Ini matapos gindeklara nga kulang sang nagakaigo nga ebidensya ang mga reklamo batok sa Presidente sang House Committee on Justice.
Suno kay House Committee on Justice Chairperson Representative Gerville Luistro, indi pa sini mahambal nga dalayon na nga natapos ang mga impeachment complaint batok kay Marcos bangud nga pwede pa ini nga baliskaron sa plenaryo ang report sang committee kun pagasuportahan sang one third sang myembro sang House of the Representative .
Samtang nagpahayag man sang pagkadismaya ang pila ka mga kongresita kaangay ni ACT Teachers party-list Representative Antonio Tinio sa resulta sang hearing kahapon nga adlaw.
Suno kay Tinio nga indi obligasyon sang miyembro sang House Committe on Justice nga mangin abogado sang Presidente kag suno pa sa iya nga kaangay nga gin-judge gilayon ang mga ebidensya batok sa Presidente.
Andre de Jesus, nagboto ang mga mamalidha sang 42-1-1 agud ibasura ang reklamo.
Ang ikaduha nga impeachment complaint naman nga gin-file sang Makabayan coalition, ang nakit-an man nga insufficient in substance.
Ini matapos nga ang mosyon nga nagadeklarar sini nga sufficient in substance ang napierde paagi sa pito ka yes, 39 ka no, kag wala sang abstention.
Ang una nga impeachment complaint ang gin-file ni de Jesus.
Ini nagaakusar sa presidente sang betrayal of public trust and culpable violation of the Constitution bangud sa pagmando pagpahanugot sang pag-kidnap kag pagsurrender kay anay President Rodrigo Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Gintumod man ang pagka- drug addict sang presidente nga nagaapekto sa iya trabaho.
Gindugang man ni de Jesus ang kapaslawan ni Marcos nga i-veto ang unprogrammed appropriations kag iban nga unconstitutional provisions sang national budget para sa 2023, 2024, 2025, kag 2026.
Ang ikaduha nga impeachment complaint ang gin-file sang Makabayan.
Ini nag-alegar nga ang Presidente naka-kumiter sang betrayal of public trust bangud sa adoption sang Baselined-Balanced-Managed (BBM) Parametric Formula sa pag-alokar sang infrastructure projects nga gin-alegar nagresulta sa “ghost,” substandard, kag overpriced flood management projects.
Gintuyo sang pila ka mga senador nga kumbinsehon si Senator Loren Legarda nga magbulos bilang Senate President.
Suno kay Senate President Vicente Sotto III, si Legarda nga halin man sa majority amo mismo ang nagpanugid sa iya sang sini nga impormasyon.
Apang suno kay Sotto, nagpasalig si Legarda nga indi ini interesado sa amo nga posisyon.
Sa inisyal nga impormasyon halin kay Legarda suno kay Sotto, ang minority senators ang nagpalapit sa iya agud nga kumbinsehon siya.
Wala man ginhingadlan kun sin-o halin sa minority ang nagpanguna sa amo nga tuyo nga kudeta.
Una na nga nag-ako si Senate Minority Leader Alan Peter Cayetano nga may mga diskusyon nga islan ang liderato sa Senado, apang sa subong, indi pa nila makumpleto ang numero bangud wala pa sila nakalab-ot sa 13.
Gindepensahan naman ni Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson si Legarda sa tunga sang nagguwa nga mga impormasyon kasunod sang pagpamalibad sini nga magpungko bilang Senate leader.
Suno kay Lacson, sang napaslawan ang gintuyo nga kudeta, ginbaliskad sang iban ang lamesa kag ginpalapta ang istorya nga nag-boluntaryo si Legarda agud nga buligan ang iban nga mga senador nga magtipon sang suporta agud kakason si Sotto bilang Senate chief.
Pahayag pa ni Lacson, lunsay malisyoso ini nga mga naratibo nga nagalapta.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Sotto nga nagapabilin nga “solid” ang majority bloc apisar sang ginatan-aw sang iban nga posibilidad nga magabalhin si Legarda sang iya nga suporta.
Pahayag pa ni Sotto, may isa tubtub duha pa gani ka mga senador nga indi myembro sang majority bloc nga possible mag-upod sa ila.#
Angara, nagpasalig nga tutukan ang isyu sang mass promotion sa mga estudyante
Ginpasalig ni Education Secretary Sonny Angara nga tutukan sang ahensya ang mga isyu kaangot sa mass promotion sa mga kabataan.
Kasunod ini sang panawagan sang Second Congressional Commission on Education (EDCOM 2) nga tapnaon gilayon ini nga practice bangud nagaka-pressure lamang ang mga manunudlo nga papasaron ang indi man kwalipikado nga mga estudyante agud lamang nga malab-ot nila ang ila nga administrative performance targets.
Suno naman kay Angara, wala man sang partikular nga polisa sa mass promotion sa DepEd, apang nakahibalo siya nga may nakaandan nga buluhaton kaangay sang pag-tutor sang maestro kag maestra sa estudyante nga wala nakapasar.
Bangud sini suno sa tiglikom, ang tendency amo nga papasaron na lang ang bata.
Importante man suno kay Angara ang kolaborasyon sa Simbahan kag gobyerno para sa reporma sa edukasyon.
Ginhalimbawa sini ang pag-partner sang DepEd sa nationwide network sang Caritas Philippines sa 86 diocesan social action centers.
Bangud sini nga partnership suno sa iya, nag-uswag ang dalagku nga mga programa kaangay sang school-based feeding, learning recovery initiatives, kag Alternative Learning System.
Kun balikan, sa Comprehensive Rapid Literacy Assessment sa school year 2024-2025, nabulgar nga 48.76 percent sang learners ang indi pa makahibalo magbasa sa Grade 3.
Bisan nga 30.5 percent sang estudyante ang proficient sa amo sini nga level, amat-amat nga nagahina ang mastery samtang nagataas ang grade level tubtub nga nagasarurot na sa 0.40 percent sa Grade 12.
Hagna nga nagaduso sang ‘no work, no pay’ para sa mga kongresista kag senador, gin-file sa Kamara
Ginduso ni House Majority Leader Sandro Marcos ang isa ka hagna agud nga indi maswelduhan ang mga myembro sang Kongreso kun indi sila mag-trabaho.
Nakabutang sa coverage sini nga sakop sini ang tanan nga myembro sang Kongreso — buot silingon, ang mga yara sa Senado kag Kamara.
Sa explanatory note sang kongresista, ginpahayag sini nga ginasunod ang “no work, no pay” nga patakaran sa tanan nga mamumugon sa pungsod.
Apang ginmuno niya nga ang mga myembro nga Kongreso — nga amo ang may katungdanan nga magbalay sang layi kag mag-represent sang mga tawo — ang gina-swelduhan sa gihapon apisar nga may attendance man sila ukon wala.
Suno sa kongresista, uyang ini sa kuwarta sang pumuluyo nga nagabayad sang buwis.
Kun mapasar ini nga hagna suno pa kay Rep.
Marcos, mas ma-promote ang transparency, accountability, kag integridad sa pang-gobyerno.
Gindugang sini nga naka-provide sa iya nga ginaduso nga hagna ang “safeguards” sa valid nga mga rason sa pag-absent kaangay sang balatian ukon official representation duties.
Wala sang ginhingadlan sa explanatory note ni Marcos, apang ang pinakamatunog nga kontrobersiya nga kaangot sini nga isyu sang damlag lang amo si Senator Ronald “Bato” Dela Rosa.
Madamo ang nagpakamalaot sa sistema bangud apisar wala nagapakita si Dela Rosa halin sang Nobyembre 2025, nagabaton gihapon siya sang sweldo.
Nag-umpisa sa pag-absent si Dela Rosa sa mga session sang Senado halin sang naggwa ang impormasyon halin kay Ombudsman Jesus Crispin “Boying” Remulla nga naka-isyu na ang International Criminal Court (ICC) sang arrest warrant batok kay Dela Rosa nga amo ang PNP chief sang ginpatuman ang drug war.#
Tatlo ka mga senador, nagbawi sang pirma sa partial blue ribbon report
Ginkumpirma ni Senate President Vicente “Tito” Sotto III nga nag-withdraw sang ila pirma ang tatlo ka mga senador sa draft report sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee kaangot sa imbestigasyon sa flood control corruption.
Ang nagbawi sang ila pirma amo sanday Senate Majority Leader Juan Miguel Zubiri, Senator JV Ejercito, kag Senator Sherwin Gatchalian.
Suno kay Sotto, ang pirmado nga draft nga na-leak sa publiko indi amo ang official report bangud nga diskusyunan pa ini subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 4.
Nahibaluan nga lakip sa nag-leak nga draft report amo ang rekomendasyon sang pagpasaka sang kaso-kriminal kag kaso-administratibo batok sa iban pa nga kaupdanan nila sa Senado nga sanday Senador Jinggoy Estrada, Senador Joel Villanueva, kag former Senate President Francis Escudero.
Sa sulat naman nanday Zubiri, Gatchalian, kag Ejercito, ila ginsiling nga ginabawi nila anay ang ila pirma samtang nga ginapreparar pa ang final committee report agud nga mahatagan sila sang tyempo nga matun-an ini.
Suno naman kay Senate Blue Ribbon Committee Chairman kag Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson, diskusyunan pa lamang subong nga adlaw ang draft partial committee report.
Ini ang santo suno sa iya sa nakabutang sa rules of procedure sa mga kaangay sini nga inquiry in aid of legislation.#
PNP, walang natukoy na banta sa ASEAN 2026 events
Walang naitalang banta ang Philippine National Police (PNP) sa lahat ng ASEAN events na gaganapin sa Pilipinas ngayong 2026.
Kasalukuyang may chairmanship ang Pilipinas sa ASEAN, na may 11 miyembrong bansa, at magpupulong sa ika-48 at ika-49 na summit ngayong Mayo at Oktubre.
Ronnie Cariaga, PNP director for operations, regular ang kanilang inter-agency meetings kasama ang NICA at AFP upang suriin ang posibleng banta, ngunit wala pa silang nakikitang panganib.
Itinakda ang mga summit sa bagong inayos na Philippine International Convention Center sa Pasay City.
Kamakailan, ginanap din ang ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Retreat sa Cebu.
Binanggit ni Cariaga na lahat ng nakaraang ASEAN events sa bansa ay maayos ang seguridad.
Nasapwan nga bangkay sa Basilan matapos ang RoRo vessel incident, naglab-ot na sa 40
Naglab-ot na sa 40 ang nasapwan nga bangkay sa Basilan, matapos nga naglugdang ang RoRo vessel nga MV Trisha Kerstin 3 sang tinalikdan nga Enero 26.
Base sa impormasyon nga nakuha sang Philippine Coast Guard, ila ginpahayag nga may ara liwat nga nakit-an nga tatlo ka mga bangkay sa suno sa Hadji Muhtamad local government.
Duha ang nasapwan sa Baluk-Baluk Island, samtang isa naman sa Lantawan Island.
Nahibalu-an nga yara na sa Zamboanga City ang bangkay sang mga biktima para sa proper disposition.
Madumduman nga may ara sang 316 survivors ang nasambit nga insidente.
Sa subong, padayun pa ang imbestigasyon sang Maritime Industry Authority (MARINA) bangud sa mga pahayag sang nga survivors nga may ara sang madamo nga kakulangan ang kumpaniya sang naglugdang nga RoRo vessel.
ASEAN, sumusuporta sa cruise tourism para paunlarin ang mga isla ng Pilipinas
Itinuturing ng Pilipinas ang sarili bilang key player sa lumalaking cruise tourism network ng ASEAN matapos ang matagumpay na ASEAN Tourism Forum (ATF) 2026 sa Cebu.
Ayon kay Tourism Secretary Christina Garcia-Frasco, itinuring ng ASEAN tourism ministers ang cruise tourism bilang pangunahing produkto sa ilalim ng ASEAN Tourism Strategic Plan, na maaaring magbukas ng multi-country itineraries at magpakilala sa mga isla ng Pilipinas sa mga banyagang turista.
Kasama sa plano ang pag-promote ng cruise tourism kasama ang heritage at culture, gastronomy, health and wellness, at nature and adventure tourism, upang makalikha ng seamless at mataas na kalidad na travel experiences sa buong rehiyon.
Binanggit ni Frasco ang mga hakbang na ginawa ng Pilipinas, kabilang ang natapos na cruise port sa Siargao at mga proyekto kasama ang Philippine Ports Authority para mapalawak ang cruise-ready destinations.
Ayon sa Bureau of Immigration, mahigit 56,000 cruise tourists ang bumisita sa bansa, karamihan ay first-time visitors.
Bukod sa cruise tourism, sinabi ni Frasco na ang matagumpay na ATF ay nagpapatibay sa suporta para sa regional connectivity, kabilang ang mas maraming air at sea routes, at binigyang-diin ang kahalagahan ng public-private partnerships para sa infrastructure, tulad ng airport upgrades sa Laguindingan, Puerto Princesa, at Iloilo.
ASEAN, nakipag-ugnayan sa Philippine startup para sa matatag na digital na imprastraktura
Nakipagpulong si Satvinder Singh, deputy secretary-general ng ASEAN Economic Community, sa Philippine startup na OMG!
Cr*zy-Fast sa katatapos na ASEAN Summit upang talakayin ang mga digital at logistics system na kayang tumagal kahit may krisis.
Layunin ng pulong na panatilihin ang tuloy-tuloy na kalakalan at suplay sa rehiyon sa gitna ng climate shocks, cyber risk, at geopolitical tension.
Naghahanap ang ASEAN ng “resilience-first” technologies mula sa pribadong sektor habang pinapabilis ang digital integration ng 10 bansang kasapi.
Cr*zy-Fast, ang pakikipag-ugnayan ay patunay ng lumalaking pagkilala sa Philippine deep-tech firms sa rehiyon at ng estratehiyang pagsamahin ang institusyonal na pamumuno at mabilis lumagong startup para maging global digital hub ang Timog-Silangang Asya.
SEC, nagpasaka sang kaso-kriminal vs Villar Land
Gin-anunsyo sang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) nga nagpasaka ini sang kaso-kriminal batok sa Villar Land Holdings Corp.
sang bilyonaryo nga negosyante nga si Manny Villar bangud sa ginaalegar nga market manipulation, insider trading, kag misleading disclosures.
kag ang iya asawa nga si former senator Cynthia Villar.
Yara man ang mga director nga sanday Cynthia Javarez, Manuel Paolo Villar, Senator Camille Villar, kag Senator Mark Villar.
Nalista man nga respondents ang independent directors nga sanday Ana Marie Pagsibigan kag Garth Castañeda.
Suno sa SEC, naglapas ang Villar Land — ukon kilala anay nga Golden MV Holdings Inc.
— sa mga probisyon sang Securities Regulation Code (SRC) lakip na ang pag-ban sa sala ukon misleading statements kag transactions nga naga-operate bilang fraud sa investors.
Nagsentro ang kaso sa 2024 financial reporting sang Villar Land nga nagapakita sang P1.33-trillion nga total assets kag P999.72-billion nga net income.
Mataas ini nga lukso halin sa P1.46 billion nga naganar sang kumpaniya sang 2023.
Apang suno sa SEC, ini nga figures ang ginpaguwa antes pa man na-finalize ang external audit.
Sang napasa na ang audited statements, nagdangat ang total assets sa P35.7 billion nga fraction lang sang ila nga inisyal nga gin-claim.
Pahayag pa sang regulator, ang kaangot nga entities sa ila ginpasaka nga kaso ang nag-intra sa “trading activities that created artificial demand and supported the price of Villar Land shares.”
Espesyal pa gid nga nahingadlan si Camille Villar nga ginapahayag nga nagbakal sang 73,600 shares nga balor P1.43 million sang Disyembre 2017, inoras antes ang corporate disclosure nga rason sang pagsaka sang stock price sang kumpaniya.
Sa separado naman nga statement sang Villar Land, nagpahayag ini nga sabton kag atubangon nila ang alegasyon sang SEC.
ANTI-EPAL: DILG, ginapakakas ang pangalan kag pictures sang public officials sa gov’t projects
Ginmanduan sang Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) ang tanan nga mga opisina sini kag ang tanan nga local government units (LGUs) sa pungsod nga kakason ang mga pangalan kag mga laragway sang public officials sa tanan nga mga proyekto nga ginpondohan sang gobyerno.
Dapat siguruhon suno sa ahensya nga wala sang pangalan, picture, logo, initials, color motif, slogan, ukon anuman nga identifying symbol sang mga public official nga nakatapik ukon nakasulat sa mga project signages, markers, tarpaulins, kag kaangay nga mga materyales kun ini nga mga proyekto ang naghalin man sa kuwarta sang taxpayers.
Suno sa DILG, indi personal nga mga billboard ang mga programa sang gobyerno, bangud ginpondohan ini sang kuwarta sang pumuluyo.
Ginmanduan man ang mga pinuno sang mga opisina para sa pagsigurado nga may compliance sa sini nga direktiba.
Ini nga tikang ang kabahin sang pagpasangkad pa sang Anti-Epal policy.
Ginsulit man sang DILG ang panawagan ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Gin-engganyo man ang mga pumuluyo nga i-report kun may nakit-an nga nagalapas sa sini nga pagsulundan.
FPRRD, maaaring i-waive ang karapatang dumalo sa ICC confirmation of charges hearing
Nilinaw ng abogado ng mga biktima ng drug war na maaaring i-waive ni dating Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte ang kanyang karapatang dumalo kapag nagsimula na ang confirmation of charges hearing sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Gilbert Andres, sinabi niya na sa ilalim ng Rome Statute, kinakailangang naroon ang suspek sa confirmation hearing, ngunit binibigyan din si Duterte ng opsyon kung ayaw niyang dumalo.
Matatandaang sa pagbasa ng desisyon sa kanyang apela kaugnay sa pagbasura ng korte sa interim release noong Nobyembre 2025, ini-waive rin ni Duterte ang kanyang karapatang dumalo, pisikal man o virtual.
Sa halip na si Duterte, ang tanging humarap noon ay ang kanyang abogado na si Nicholas Kaufman kasabay ng pagbasa ng desisyon ng Appeals Chamber.
Ayon pa kay Andres, sa pagsisimula ng apat na araw na proceedings sa Pebrero 23, posibleng tumagal ito ng humigit-kumulang tatlong oras bawat araw, kung saan bibigyan ng patas na pagkakataon ang defense at ang prosekusyon para sa opening at closing statements, mga legal at factual na argumento, at presentasyon ng mga references ng ebidensya.
Pahayag niya, matapos ang confirmation of charges hearing, may tatlong posibleng senaryo na siyang pag-confirm ng mga kaso, ang pagtangging i-confirm ang mga ito, o ang pag-adjourn at ibalik sa prosekusyon ang mga dokumentong naglalaman ng kaso.
Dagdag pa niya, nahaharap si Duterte sa three counts ng murder bilang crimes against humanity, at kahit isang count lamang ang ma-confirm, magpapatuloy na ang kaso sa trial.
PH at India, palalakasin ang turismo sa ASEAN sa pamamagitan ng direktang koneksyon
Pinagtibay ng Pilipinas at India ang ugnayan sa turismo sa ASEAN sa pamamagitan ng mas malakas at direktang koneksyon.
Ayon kay Tourism Secretary Christina Garcia-Frasco, ang visa-free entry para sa mga Indian at ang paglulunsad ng direktang flights ay nagresulta sa pagtaas ng bilang ng Indian visitor arrivals sa bansa.
Binanggit niya na kapag bukas ang mga pintuan at may maayos na koneksyon, nakikinabang ang komunidad sa mas maraming oportunidad at kabuhayan.
Sa pulong ng 13th ASEAN-India Tourism Ministers, tinalakay ang sustainable tourism, capacity building, at pagbibigay ng mataas na kalidad na karanasan sa turista.
Ayon sa datos, milyun-milyong Indian at ASEAN travelers ang naglakbay sa rehiyon, na nagpapatunay sa lumalakas na tourism ecosystem sa parehong panig.
Cebu, namayagpag bilang host ng ATF 2026 at naglatag ng bisyon para sa ASEAN tourism
Naging sentro ng regional tourism ang Cebu nang maging host ng 45th ASEAN Tourism Forum (ATF) 2026 mula Enero 26 hanggang 30, na dinaluhan ng tinatayang 5,000 delegado mula sa ASEAN member states at dialogue partners tulad ng China, Japan, South Korea, India, at Russia.
Sa temang “Navigating Our Tourism Future, Together,” nagtipon ang mga tourism ministers, senior officials, at industry leaders para sa high-level policy discussions at Travex trade exchanges na naglalayong palakasin ang ASEAN bilang isang pinagsamang global tourism destination.
Higit pa sa mga pulong, naranasan ng mga delegado ang mayamang kultura at kasaysayan ng Cebu sa pamamagitan ng aktibidad na “Paglantaw: A Heritage Tour of Old Cebu”, na dinaluhan ang mga landmark tulad ng Magellan’s Cross, Basilica Minore del Santo Niño, at Fort San Pedro.
Kasabay ng ATF, host din ang Cebu ng ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Retreat at ang 48th ASEAN Plus Three NTOs Meeting, na nagpapatibay ng kooperasyon sa China, Japan, at South Korea.
Sa pagtatapos ng ATF 2026, inanunsyo na Singapore ang susunod na host ng forum sa Enero 2027, na nagpapatuloy ng taunang rotation ng mga miyembrong bansa.
Ayon sa mga opisyal, ang matagumpay na forum ngayong taon ay nagpapatunay sa pangako ng ASEAN sa sustainable tourism at ipinakita ang Pilipinas bilang premier host para sa malalaking international events.
Suno kay National Capital Region Police Office (NCPRO) Chief PMGen Anthony Aberin, nadakpan sa Quezon City ang mga suspek.
Leviste, nagpangayo sang permiso sa Kamara nga makabyahe sa masobra 20 ka mga pungsod
Nagpangayo sang permiso sa Kamara si Batangas 1st District Rep.
Leandro Leviste nga makabyahe ini sa masobra 20 ka mga pungsod sa sulod sang lima ka bulan.
Suno kay Leviste, napasa na ini nga pangabay paagi sa iya iloy nga si Sen.
Ginapahayag nga may nagpangabay sa senadora nga hingyuon sa kongresista nga indi na magpagwa sang ebidensya nga naangot sa mga opisyal sang gobyerno sa anomalya sa DPWH projects.
Nagwa ini nga isyu sang ginpamangkot si Leviste kun matuod nga naghingyo ini sang clearance nga makabiyahe sa pila ka pungsod umpisa Pebrero 8 tubtob Hulyo 26, 2026.
Kadungan man ini sang isyu nga may kahilabtanan sa isa ka solar company nga iya gintukod.
Magasugod ang House Committee on Legislative Franchises sa masunod nga semana sang motu proprio inquiry sa nasambit nga mga isyu.
Iban nga mga kaupdanan sang negosyante nga si Atong Ang nag-plead sang ‘Not Guilty’
Nag-plead sang NOT GUILTY sa Lipa City Regional Trial Court ang iban nga kaupdanan sang negosyante nga si Atong Ang sa kaso nga ila nga ginapangatubang nga naangot sa missing sabungeros.
Gin-akusahan ang mga ini sang kidnapping kag homicide bangud sang ginaalegar malain nga mga buluhaton kaangay sang indi patas nga paghampang sa AA Cobra Game Farm.
Nakaskedyul ang pre-marking of evidence sa Pebrero 20, samtang ang hearing sa kaso pagahiwaton sa Pebrero 27.
Samtang, nagapabilin naman nga nagapanago si Atong Ang suno sa awtoridad.
Suno naman sa Department of Interior and Local Government, nakapadala na sila sang personnel agud kumpirmahon ang report nga ara si Ang sa Cambodia.
Ginhatagan sang Appeals Chamber sang International Criminal Court ang kampo ni anay President Rodrigo Duterte sang tubtub sa Pebrero 5, 2026 agud maka-file sang apela batok sa desisyon nahanungod sa iya detensyon.
Ini matapos magpasa ang kampo sini sang notice sa ICC Appeals Chamber nga nagapangayo nga baliskadon ang desisyon sang Pre-Trial Chamber I nga padayunon ang detensyon sa former president.
Sa anum ka pahina nga dokumento nga napetsahan sang Enero 28, nag-hingyo ang team ni Duterte sang immediate interim release sa idalom sang mga kondisyon nga gin-provide sang state party.
Nahibaluan nga nagapangatubang si Duterte sang mga kaso nga crimes against humanity sa ICC, lakip na diri ang pagpangpatay sini sa mga naangot sa kampanya sini kontra iligal nga droga sang siya pa ang Presidente sa Pilipinas kag alkalde sang Davao City.
Kristina Conti, Assistant to Counsel sang ICC, kumpyansa siya nga indi na pagbaliskaron sang ICC ang nauna nga desisyon sini nga fit si Duterte nga mag-atubang sa pre-trial proceedings.
Gin-schedule sang chamber nga mag-umpisa ang confirmation of charges hearing sa masunod nga bulan.
Mga nakuha nga bangkay sa naglugdang nga RoRo vessel sa Basilan, nalapawan na ang numero sang missing
Lapaw na sa numero sang missing nga gindeklarar sang Philippine Coast Guard ang numero sang mga nakit-an nga bangkay kasunod sang paglugdang sang M/V Trisha Kerstin 3 sa Basilan.
Buot silingon, may mga pasahero nga wala nakalista sa manifesto sang barko antes natabo ang trahedya sang Enero 26.
Suno kay Celso Lobregat, Executive Secretary sang City Mayor’s office sang Zambonga City, gin-ako sang iban nga mga survivors nga nagbakal sila sang ticket sa sulod na mismo sang barko ukon sa scalpers, gani wala sila nadala sa opisyal nga listahan sang mga sakay.
Matandaan nga sa una nga pahayag sang Philippine Coast Guard, 18 ka bangkay ang na-recover kag 10 pa ang missing nga padayon nga ginapangita.
Apang sa subong, naglab-ot na sa 33 ang kabug-usan nga numero sang mga napatay nga narekober.
Gin-ako sang Philippine Coast Guard nga ang una nga datos ang nabase lamang sa manifesto, gani padayon pa ang imbestigasyon nahanungod sa matuod nga kadamuon sang sakay kag sa ginhalinan sang paglugdang sang amo nga Roll On-Roll Off vessel.
Ginsaysay man sang mga nakaluwas nga tuman nga kabudlayan nga ila gin-agyan sa dagat samtang nagahulat sang bulig sa tunga sang madulom kag matugnaw nga sitwasyon.
Sa karon padayon naman nga ginapangita pa ang iban nga nadula.
Marcos, ginbasura ang proposals nga ideklarar nga persona non grata ang Chinese embassy officials
ang mga proposal nga ideklarar ang Chinese Embassy officials sa Pilipinas bilang mga persona non grata.
Claire Castro subong nga hapon, Enero 30.
“No, ang sagot ng Pangulo,” pahayag sini sa ambush interview.
“Basta ang sagot ng Pangulo patungkol sa panawagan na ideklarang persona non grata ang isang ambassador, no.”
Wala na ini sang ginpatpat nga mga detalye ukon rason.
Matandaan nga sa Senado, nagmandu si Senate President Vicente Sotto III sa Committee on Rules nga tun-an ang posibilidad sa pagdeklarar sa pila ka embassy officials sang China bilang persona non grata.
Gin-insulto ni Guo ang 15 mga senador nga nagpirma sang resolusyon nga nagapabakod sang kinamatarong sang Pilipinas nga depensahan ang national sini nga interes sa West Philippine Sea.
Sandig naman anay kay Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson, ang presidente lamang ang may gahum nga magpalayas sa isa ka diplomat, apang mahimo naman makapaguwa ang Senado sang formal recommendation nga may yara sang daku nga bug-at.#
Marcos, gindayaw si Sandro sa pag-inhibit sa deliberasyon sang Kamara sa impeachment batok sa iya
Gindayaw ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
ang ginhimo sang iya anak nga si House Majority Leader Sandro Marcos nga pag-inhibit sa impeachment trial proceedings batok sa presidente.
Suno sa amay nga Marcos, husto lang ang ginhimo ni Sandro bangud bisan ano pa ang ihambal, may bias gid nga matabo bangud anak niya ini.
Kun indi magpartisipar si Sandro sa proseso suno sa iya, amo pa lang kag magguwa nga patas kag husto ang dalagan sang impeachment.
Hindi niya sinasabi sa akin,” dugang pa sini.
Si Sandro amo ang representative sang una nga distrito sang Ilocos Norte.
Nagdesisyon ini nga indi magpartisipar sa mga diskusyon, deliberasyon, kag anuman nga proceeding sa House of Representatives rules committee kaangot sa impeachment complaints.
Pahayag sang kongresista, kinahanglan nga panindugan ang integridad sang Kamara, protektahan ang kredibilidad sang proseso, kag palig-unon ang pagsalig sang publiko sa constitutional system.
Nagpahayag man anay ang bata nga Marcos nga dapat nga magpadayon ang Kamara sa paghimo sang constitutional duties sini nga wala sang landing sang anuman nga personal nga interes.
Ginsundan ini sang isa pa ka impeachment complaint sadtong Enero 26 paagi sa mga lider sang progresibo nga grupo.
‘Impeachment is now an impossible dream’ —Tito Sotto kasunod sang desisyon sang Korte Suprema
Isa na ka imposible nga handum ang impeachment batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ini suno kay Senate President Vicente “Tito” Sotto III kasunod sang desisyon sang Korte Suprema nga palig-unon pa ukon i-uphold ang nauna nga desisyon sini nga nagadeklarar nga unconstitutional ang impeachment sang Kamara batok sa bise-presidente.
Sa statement ni Sotto, ginpahayag sini nga masubo ini nga adlaw para sa mga estudyante kag propesor sang Constitutional Law bangud sa ginhimo sang Supreme Court nga pag-amyendar “unconstitutionally” sa Konstitusyon.
Dinekada pa ang hulaton suno sa iya antes matadlong ini nga misinterpretation.
Kahapon, Enero 29, sang gin-anunsyo ni Supreme Court spokesperson Atty.
Camille Ting nga nag-desisyon ang en banc sang may pinalidad nga ginabasura sini ang motion for reconsideration nga ginpasaka sang Kamara.
Ang amo nga mosyon sang Kamara ang nagatuyo kuntani nga baliskaron ang nauna nga desisyon sang Korte Suprema nga nagdeklarar sang articles of impeachment batok kay Duterte bilang unconstitutional.
Matandaan nga ginpasaka sa Senado ang ikaapat nga impeachment complaint batok kay Duterte sadtong Pebrero 5, 2025.
Sa paglantaw sang Supreme Court, covered na ini sang one-year bar rule sandig sa Article XI, Section 3, Subsection 5 sang Constitution.
Suno naman kay Senator Imee Marcos nga kaalyado ni Duterte, ang desisyon sang Korte Suprema ang nagapakita sang kadalag-an sang rule of law kag pamatuod nga wala sang tawo nga labaw pa sa Konstitusyon.
Apisar sini, sigurado man ang senadora nga may impeachment complaint na naman nga i-file batok sa vice president sa Pebrero 6.
Matandaan nga sang Disyembre 2024, tatlo ka impeachment complaints ang ginpasaka batok kay Duterte nga lunsay naangot sa iya kontrobersyal nga confidential funds.
Ang ikaapat nga complaint amo ang gin-endorso sang Kamara kag ginpasaka sa Senado.
Sang Agusto 2025, nagboto naman ang kadam-an sang mga senador nga i-archive ang articles of impeachment kasunod sang nauna nga desisyon sang Supreme Court nga unconstitutional ini.#
SC decision nga unconstitutional ang impeachment vs Sara, ginbaton sang mga kongresista
Hugot nga ginabaton sang pila ka myembro sang Kamara ang ruling sang Korte Suprema nga i-uphold ang nauna nga desisyon sini nga “unconstitutional” ang impeachment batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Kahapon sang gin-anunsyo ni Supreme Court spokesperson Atty.
Gerville Luistro nga isa kuntani sa magapungko bilang prosecutor pananglitan nadayon ang impeachment, nakahanda na siya nga daan kun ano man ang desisyon sang Supreme Court sa ila nga mosyon.
Dapat batunon suno sa iya nga amo ini ang kahulugan sang rule of law.
Dapat man dumdumon suno pa sa mamalidha nga ang Korte Suprema amo ang final arbiter sang tanan nga kontrobersiya nga nagapalibot sa implementasyon kag interpretasyon sang mga layi kag pagsulundan.
Pahayag naman ni Bicol Saro party-list Rep.
Terry Ridon, ginatahod nila ang desisyon sang Supreme Court.
Apang kun makalampas suno sa iya ang one-year bar sa Pebrero 6, handa na liwat ang Kamara sa pagbaton kag paghulag pananglitan may bag-o nga impeachment complaint batok sa vice president.
Suno namam kay House Speaker Faustino “Bojie” Dy III, importante nga mangin mahinalungon sa proseso sang impeachment bangud naangot diri ang mabug-at nga mandato nga gintugyan sa ila sang mga Pilipino.
Para naman kay Senior Deputy Speaker Ferdinand Hernandez, magapadayon ang Kamara nga nagasunod sa giya sang constitutional mandate kag committed sa pagsunod sa democratic principles, institutional respect, kag rule of law.
Ginpahangop naman ni House Deputy Minority Leader kag ML party-list Rep.
Leila De Lima nga ang Supreme Court decision ang nagamuno lamang sa technicality sang impeachment kag indi sa merito sang impeachment case.
Ini nga grounds suno sa iya ang mahimo pa magamit sa masunod nga filing.
Bisan may desisyon ang Supreme Court suno sa iya, wala sang vindication nga natabo kag wala sang nalimpyuhan nga pangalan.
Nagpasalig naman sanday ACT Teachers Rep.
Renee Louise Co nga handa ang Makabayan bloc nga mag-file liwat sang impeachment complaint batok sa Vice President bangud kinahanglanon ini kag nakasandig sa interes sang mga Pilipino.#
‘They don’t deserve him’: Robin Padilla, indi na magpadalagan sa 2028 suno kay Mariel
Indi na magpadalagan si Senator Robin Padilla sa eleksyon sa 2028 suno sa iya asawa nga si Mariel Padilla.
Para sa akin ‘yun ah, siyempre sasabihin (ng iba), siyempre asawa ka, di ‘yan ang (sasabihin mo), ‘di sige basta ako ganu’n ang paniniwala ko,” suno sa aktres sa latest nga interview sa iya.
Diri na kag ginsulod sini nga kun kaisa, wala na-apresyar ang iya bana sa serbisyo publiko, gani mas maayo nga indi na lang ini magpadalagan liwat.
“Minsan napapaisip ako na tapusin na lang (termino bilang senador) or sometimes kapag may nasabi na out of context na parang I feel na they don’t deserve him, may mga ganu’n ako.
Makapila ka beses man suno sa iya nga nagpaminsar si Robin nga mag-resign bangud sang sistema.
Apang sa tunga sini tanan suno sa iya, wala sang ambisyon ang actor-politician para sa mas mataas nga posisyon sa pulitika — ilabi na ang pagka-bise presidente.
“Robin has no ambition (mas mataas na posisyon).
“To tell you the truth, ayaw niya ‘yung mga people na ‘yun; nate-turn off siya (sa mga nagsasabing tumakbo siyang vice president),” dugang sini.
“Nagdesisyon na siya, hindi na siya tatakbo.
He’s always saying that because nababagalan siya sa mga bagay-bagay.”
Sa amo man nga interview kay Mariel, ginpadayaw man sini nga wala sang pagbag-o sa ila nga istilo sang pagpangabuhi halin sang nagsulod sa Senado ang iya bana.
Suno sa iya, wala sila sang bag-o nga kotse ukon balay ukon anuman nga halin sa pagka-senador sang amo nga actor-politician.
“Wala kaming bagong kotse simula nu’ng si Robin ay nanalo, wala kaming bagong bahay, wala kaming bagong kung anuman na katas ng pagiging senador ni Robin, so, ‘yun ang aking taas noong masasabi,” suno sa aktres.
Si Robin nga vocal supporter ni former president Rodrigo Duterte ang nagpungko sa Senado umpisa sang Hunyo 2022.
Kaso ni Duterte sa ICC, pamatuod nga patas ang international tribunal,suno sa human rights lawyer
Nagapati ang human rights lawyer nga dako ang impact sa international community sang natalana nga pag-atubang ni former President Rodrigo Duterte sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Ini para sa confirmation hearing sang iya murder charges sa masunod nga bulan.
Gilbert Andres, iya ginpahayag nga ang kaso ni Duterte ang makapamatuod nga patas ang ICC kag wala lamang ini nagasentro sa isa ka kontinente.
Suno sa iya, ini bangud sa masami, sa mga pungsod sa Africa nagahalin ang ginapasakaan sang kaso sa ICC apang subong, naghalin sa Asya ang may yara sang kaso.
Pahayag niya, magapakita man ini nga wala sang ginapili ang ICC pag-abot sa isyu sang human rights kag rule of law.
Si Andres ang isa sa common legal representatives nga para sa tanan nga biktima sang drug war sa Pilipinas sa kaso ni Duterte sa ICC.
Siya man ang executive director sang CenterLaw Philippines.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas kay Andres, gin-designate man si Atty.
Joel Butuyan bilang abogado sang drug war victims.
Ang duha ang napilian bangud man sa ila eligibility nga wala sang record sang “inappropriate conduct” kag wala man sang conflict of interest sa kaso case.
Ang confirmation of charges hearing batok kay Duterte natalana sa Pebrero 23 kag magalawig tubtob Pebrero 27.
Zaldy Co personal nga nag-atubang sa isa ka notary public sa Stockholm, Sweden
Personal nga nag-atubang si anay House Appropriations Committee chairperson Zaldy Co sa isa ka notary public sa Stockholm, Sweden sang Enero 15.
Base ini sa apostile ukon certificate nga nagapamatuod sa ginhalinan sang public documents nga ginpasa sang iya nga abogado sa petisyon batok kay Ombudsman Jesus Crispin Remulla nga gin-file sang Enero 25.
Makita sa petisyon ang personal nga pagpirma ni Co sa banwa sang Nacka sa Stockholm, Sweden.
Kabaliskaran ini sa nauna nga pahayag ni Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla nga si Co yara subong sa Lisbon, Portugal.
Nahibaluan nga si Co ang may ginapangatubang nga warrant of arrest sa Sandiganbayan bangod sa mga kaso sang malversation kag graft nga may kaangtanan sa ₱289-milyon nga flood control project sa Oriental Mindoro.
Sa iya petisyon, ginapangayo niya sa Korte Suprema nga magpagwa sang temporary restraining order kag dulaon ang resolusyon sang Ombudsman nga nagarekomendar sang mga kaso nga nagapahayag nga nalapas ang iya kinamatarong sa due process.
Suno sa kampo ni Co, wala ini nagpalagyo halin sa pungsod kag naglakat lang para sa medical leave apang indi na ini makabalik bangod sa seryoso nga pagpamahog sa iya seguridad.
DOH, preparado batok sa Nipah virus kag nagpanawagan sa publiko nga mangin mahinalungon
Ginpahayag sang Department of Health (DOH) nga preparado ang Pilipinas batok sa Nipah virus kag nagpanawagan sa publiko nga magbantay kag mangin mahinalungon.
Suno sa DOH, ang Nipah virus isa ka rare zoonotic disease nga nagahalin sa mga sapat, labi na sa mga fruit bats, kag mahimo man makalaton halin sa baboy kag kabayo.
Nahibaluan nga una na naka-ekperensya sang amo nga virus sa Pilipinas sang tuig 2014 sa Sultan Kudarat, kun sa diin 17 ka kaso ang na-rekord kag wala na sang bag-o nga kaso magluwas sadto.
Samtang padayon naman nga ginamonitor sang DOH ang tanan nga airport kag pantalan paagi sa Bureau of Quarantine kag nagapatuman sang updated nga mga guidelines sa pagpugong sang ginapangatubang na naman nga virus.
Ginpangabay man sang DOH ang publiko nga likawan ang pagkaon sang paniki kag mga nagamasakit nga mga sapat bangud sa possible impeksyon nga matuga sini.
Dugang pa sang ahensya nga siguraduhon nga aprubado ang mga produkto nga karne kag lutuon sang maayo ang pagkaon.
Ginaliwat-liwat man Sang DOH nga wala sang dapat kabalak-an bangud preparado sila sa posible nga kaso sa pungsod.
Malacañang, ginakondenar ang fake medical document ni PBBM nga nagalapta online
Ginakondenar sang Malacañang ang fake nga medical document nga nagalapta online kaangot sa kahimtangan sang ikaayong lawas ni Presidente Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Ginpahayag sang Presidential Communications Office (PCO) nga “ginhimo-himo lang ukon isa ka malisyoso” nga alegasyon ang ginapalapta sa social media.
Ginasiguro man sang opisina nga ang Presidente maayo ang lawas, fully capable sa paghimo sang iya mga obligasyon, kag wala sang direkta nga problema sa iya ikaayong lawas.
Luke’s Medical Center nga ang dokumento peke, kag ila man ginpahayag nga ang impormasyon sang ila mga pasyente ang pribado ukon confidential.
Sa karon ang Presidente yara sa idalom sang obserbasyon bangud sa diverticulitis kag ila man gin-athag nga wala sang kamatuoran ang nagalapta nga mga balita nga kinahanglan sini sang operasyon.
Iya man gin-athag nga wala sang medical bulletin nga ipaguwa kag indi pwede nga maghatag sang impormasyon ang sin-o man nga doktor sang ospital kundi ang personal lamang nga doctor sang Presidente.
Kahangawa kag mas ginhugtan ang screening measures sa Asya, ginakahangawa kasunod sang outbreak sang makamamatay nga Nipah virus sa West Bengal state sa India
Liwat nga nagbangon ang kahangawa kag mas ginhugtan ang screening measures sa Asya kasunod sang outbreak sang makamamatay nga Nipah virus sa West Bengal state sa India.
Sa Thailand, gin-umpisahan ang pag-screen sa tatlo ka mga paluparan kun sa diin may flights nga halin sa West Bengal.
Sa Nepal, may screening man sa nagaabot sa Kathmandu airport kag sa iban nga land border points sa India.
Duha na ang kumpirmado nga kaso sang amo nga balatian sa West Bengal halin sang Disyembre.
196 ka mga tawo ang na-trace nga na-close contact apang nag-negatibo sa virus.
Ini nga virus ang mahimo maglaton halin sa sapat kaangay sang baboy kag kulunaknit pakadto sa tawo.
Mahimo man ini magsaylo halin sa isa ka tawo pakadto sa isa pa ka tawo kun nakontamina pagkaon.
Mataas ang death range sini, halin sa 40% pasaka sa 75%, bangud wala pa sang bakuna ukon bulong.
Ginlista ini sang World Health Organization nga nalakip sa top ten priority diseases kaupod sa Covid-19 kag Zika bangud sang potensyal sini nga makatuga sang epidemic.
Lakip sang sintomas sini nga balatian amo ang hilanat, pagsakit sang ulo, muscle pain, kag pagsakit sang tutunlan nga mahimo sundan sang pagdula sang animo, pneumonia, kag mahimo man mag-resulta sa encephalitis para sa malala nga mga kaso.
Marcos, absent sa event sa Malacañang subong nga adlaw
sa isa ka public engagement sa Malacañang subong nga adlaw.
Ang aktibidad amo ang Gawad Lingkod Bayani.
Si Executive Secretary Ralph Recto amo ang nagtiglawas sa iya.
Gin-athag naman ni Recto nga nagpahuway lang ang presidente bangud ini ang abiso sang iya doctor.
Suno kay Communications Undersecretary Claire Castro, maayo ang kondisyon sang presidente kag padayon nga nagapartisipar sa mga pribado nga meetings.
ASEAN tourism ministers, nagtipon sa Cebu at tinanggap ang Timor-Leste bilang bagong miyembro
Pinagtibay ng Pilipinas ang liderato nito sa regional tourism cooperation sa pamamagitan ng 29th ASEAN Tourism Ministers’ Meeting sa Cebu, kung saan binigyang-diin ang unity, sustainability, at konkretong resulta sa paghubog ng hinaharap ng turismo sa Timog-Silangang Asya.
Ayon kay Tourism Secretary Christina Garcia Frasco, na nagsilbing chair ng pulong, mahalaga ang kapayapaan, kredibilidad, at shared responsibility sa pagpapaunlad ng ASEAN tourism, dahil ang pangyayari sa isang destinasyon ay nakaaapekto sa global image ng rehiyon.
Sa naturang pulong, pormal na tinanggap ang Timor-Leste bilang ika-11 miyembro ng ASEAN, na itinuturing na milestone sa pagpapalawak ng regional cooperation at pagpapalakas ng shared vision ng bloc.
Pinagtuunan ng pansin ng mga ministro ang ASEAN Tourism Sectoral Plan 2026–2030, na nakatuon sa kalidad, katatagan, sustainability, workforce development, at seamless travel sa pamamagitan ng mas matibay na cross-sector coordination, lalo na sa transportasyon.
Binigyang-diin din ni Frasco ang suporta sa ASEAN Mutual Recognition Arrangement on Tourism Professionals para mapanatili ang mataas na pamantayan, mapabuti ang serbisyo, at mapalakas ang tiwala sa mga bansa.
Binanggit din ang gastronomy tourism bilang mahalagang asset na sumusuporta sa kabuhayan habang pinapangalagaan ang kultura at identidad ng komunidad.
Binuksan ngayong araw sa Lapu-Lapu City, Cebu ang 45th ASEAN Tourism Forum (ATF) 2026, na nagpapakita ng muling pagbabalik ng Pilipinas bilang host matapos ang halos isang dekada.
Sa temang “Navigating Our Tourism Future Together,” itinatampok ng forum ang papel ng bansa sa pagpapaunlad ng turismo sa Timog-Silangang Asya, integrasyon ng rehiyon, at pangmatagalang paglago.
Inaasahang dadalo sa opening ceremony si First Lady Liza Marcos.
Ayon sa Department of Tourism (DOT), layunin ng ATF 2026 na magdala ng sustained international attention, mas maraming turista, at mas mataas na negosyo sa bansa.
Kasama sa mga aktibidad ang ASEAN Tourism Ministerial Meeting, ASEAN Tourism Conference, at paglulunsad ng ASEAN Tourism Sectoral Plan 2026–2030, na naglalayong itaguyod ang sustainable at inclusive tourism sa rehiyon.
Bukas din ang TRAVEX 2026, ASEAN’s flagship tourism trade exchange, mula Enero 28–30 sa Mactan Expo, na nagtitipon ng mahigit 700 international buyers at sellers.
Tampok rin ang mga cultural tours gaya ng “Paglantaw” sa Old Cebu at “Bagani” sa Lapu-Lapu City.
Ayon kay Tourism Secretary Christina Garcia Frasco, ang forum ay ekonomikong oportunidad at pagpapakita ng Pilipinas bilang lider sa ASEAN tourism, na nagtataguyod ng kooperasyon, inobasyon, at sustainable development sa buong rehiyon.
Pamilya sang Ilonggo seafarer, tuman ang kalipay sang nahibaluan nga nakaluwas ang ila himata
Kaangay nga nabunutan sang tunok ang pamilya sang isa ka Ilonggo seafarer nga residente sang Brgy.
Cabanbanan, Oton, Iloilo matapos mahibaluan nga nakaluwas sa naglugdang nga barko ang ila himata nga si Carl Louise Balontong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Evelyn Balontong, nanay sang survivor nga si Carl Louise, iya ginpahayag nga kaagahon na sang mga ini nahibal-an ang natabo sa iya anak.
Tuman naman ang ila kalipay sang ginpahibalo ang mga ini nga nakaluwas si Carl kag pasado alas 8:00 na sa aga sang nagtawag si Carl kag gindala na ini sa General Isabela Hospital para sa medical evaluation.
Si Carl Louise Balontong, isa ka BS Marine Engineering graduate sang Western Institute of Technology (WIT) nga nagapatigayon sang iya one-year apprenticeship sa Aleson Shipping Lines.
Sa pagsaysay sang nanay sang biktima, ginpahayag sini nga nagakatulog siya sa kadena sang barko sang hinali na lang mabugtawan ni Carl nga nagaginahod na kag nagasulod na ang tubig.
Suno sa iloy, wala ginpukaw si Carl sang iya mga upod kag natingala na lang siya nga may nagatulo na nga tubig sa iya tiilan.
Sa tuman nga kahadlok, gilayon niya ginkuha ang iya cellphone kag mga papeles, apang nahulog ini.
Wala na sini ginbalik ang mga papeles bangud sa kahadlok nga posible ini mapatay, gani nagdesisyon na lang siya nga maglumpat sa dagat bisan wala sang life jacket.
Samtang, sa separado naman nga interview kay Carl Louise Balontong, iya ginsaysay nga masobra apat ka oras nga naglugdang ang barko kag madugay pa sila nga ginkadtuan agud i-rescue.
Ginpahayag man ni Balontong nga may yara kuntani ini sang life vest apang ginhatag niya ini sa iya Chief Engineer bangud kabalo na ini nga maglangoy kag mas kinahanglan ini sang ila Chief engineer.
Apang sa masubo nga palad wala makaluwas ang nasambit nga Chief Engineer.
Sa karon, yara na si Balontong sa opisina sang Aleson Shipping Lines, apang indi pa siya makalakat sang husto bangud sang iya mga pilas.
Dismayado ang kampo ni former President Rodrigo Duterte bangud wala sila ginpahanugutan nga magpresentar sang ila kaugalingon nga medical evidence kaangot sa ginaalegar nila nga pagluya sang kondisyon sang anay presidente.
Ini ang kasunod sa ginpagwa nga deklarasyon sang International Criminal Court (ICC) Pre-Trial Chamber 1 nga dapat mag-atubang si Duterte sa pre-trial proceedings bangud “fit” ini sandig sa ginpatigayon nga assessment sang mga medical expert.
Nicholas Kaufman, lead counsel ni Duterte, maga-file sila sang apela kag iga-insister nga wala nahatagan sang due process si Duterte.
Nahibaluan nga sa ginpaguwa nga 25 ka pahina nga desisyon, ginbasura sang ICC ang request sang kampo ni Duterte para sa indefinite adjournment sang kaso.
Nagpirma sang resolution ang 15 ka mga senador sa ginaduso nga resolusyon nga nagakondena sang mga pahayag sang embahada sang China batok sa pila ka mga opisyal sang gobyerno sang Pilipinas.
Ang mga statement nga ginbuy-an sang China amo ang ila balos sa kritisismo nga ginhimo sang mga Filipino officials sa mga agresibo nga aktwasyon sang Beijing sa West Philippine Sea.
Ang nagpirma sang draft resolution amo ang mga masunod: Senate President Vicente Sotto III, Panfilo Lacson, Juan Miguel Zubiri, Francis Pangilinan, Risa Hontiveros, Erwin Tulfo, Raffy Tulfo, Sherwin Gatchalian, Loren Legarda, JV Ejercito, Jinggoy Estrada, Bam Aquino, Lito Lapid, Camille Villar, kag Mark Villar.
Nagpanawagan man ang mga senador sa Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) nga maghulag na kag maghimo sang diplomatiko nga mga tikang agud nga mapangapinan ang dignidad sang Pilipinas.
Naka-post anay si Tarriela sang laragway ni Chinese President Xi Jinping nga may banner nga “Why China remains to be bully?”
Nagpanindugan naman si Tarriela nga nakabase ang iya mga pahayag sa matuod nga mga hitabo.
Gilayon man nga nagpaguwa sang statement ang Malacanang nga nagatindog ini kaupod sa Filipino government officials nga gina-atake sang China bangud sang ila pagpamatok sa mga sala-sala nga naratibo sa West Philippine Sea.
Una naman nga nagkondena ang Department of National Defense kag ang National Security Council sa mga pahayag sang China.
Ginklaro sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) nga indi overloaded ang barko nga Trisha Kerstin 3 sang natabo ang trahedya sang Lunes sang kaagahon nga nag-utas sang kabuhi sang 18 na ka mga tawo.
Ini nga barko sang Aleson Shipping Lines ang may yara sang maximum capacity nga 350 ka mga pasahero.
Sang adlaw nga natabo ang insidente, 344 ang sakay sini.
Suno pa kay Gavan, madasig man ang pag-responde sang sea marshals kasunod sang nabaton nga report nga may insidente nga natabo ginabanta ala una sang kaagahon.
Sandig sa inisyal nga reports nga ginhatag sang PCG kag sandig man sa statement sang survivors, nagka-problema ang barko samtang nagalayag ini 2.75 nautical miles northeast sa bisinidad sang Baluk-Baluk Island sa banwa sang Hadji Muhtammad.
316 ka pasahero ang naluwas, samtang 10 naman ang padayon ang ginapangita.
Nagpagwa naman sang pahayag ang Aleson Shipping Lines, Inc.
Suno sa ila, halin sang nabaton nila ang distress call, gilayon nga ginpatuman ang quick response measures kag gin-deploy ang tanan nga available nga mga barko sa lugar.
Padayon man suno sa ila ang ila pakig-angot sa PCG kag iban pa nga mga ahensya para sa padayon nga search and rescue operations.
Ini na ang pangaduha nga daku nga trahedya sa amo nga kumpaniya sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig.
Sang Marso 29, 2023, nasunog man ang MV Mary Joy 3 sang Aleson samtang pakadto sa Jolo.
31 ang patay kag 216 ang na-rescue sa amo nga insidente.#
Pulis, nalakip sa mga napatay sa paglugdang sang M/V Trisha Kerstin 3
Ginkumpirma sang Philippine National Police (PNP) nga may isa ka police officer nga nalakip sa 18 nga kumpirmado nga patay matapos naglugdang ang isa ka roll-on/roll-off (RORO) ferry vessel sa Pilas Island, Basilan sang Lunes sang kaagahon.
Suno sa PNP, ang biktima nga pulis ang na-assign sa Regional Mobile Division Unit 9.
Nagpabutyag naman sang kasubo si PNP acting chief Police Lieutenant General Jose Melencio Nartatez Jr.
kag nagpalab-ot man sang simpatiya sa pamilya sang biktima.
Ginpasalig sini nga magahatag ang pwersa sang kapulisan sang bulig.
“Masakit at mabigat para sa buong PNP ang pagkawala ng isa sa ating mga kasamahan.
Sisiguraduhin namin na hindi sila nag-iisa sa panahong ito,” suno kay Nartatez.
Suno pa sa PNP, 13 ka mga police personnel ang na-rescue kasunod sang paglugdang sang M/V Trisha Kerstin 3.
Siyam sa ila ang nagikan sa 905th kag 903rd Maneuver Companies sang Regional Mobile Force Battalion 9 kag apat naman ang nagikan sa Regional Emergency and Rescue Unit 9.
Gindala ang na-rescue nga mga personnel sa Zamboanga City Port kag sa Basilan Port para sa nagakaigi nga pagtatap.
Sa latest update sang awtoridad, 317 ang na-rescue kag 18 ang napatay sa trahedya nga natabo ala una sang kaagahon sang Lunes, Enero 26.
Ilonggo seaman nga nakaluwas sa naglugdang nga RORO vessel, tuman ang pagpasalamat sang iya pamilya
Eksklusibo nga napakig-angutan sang Bombo Radyo ang pamilya sang isa ka Ilonggo Seaman nga si Jujerick Layer nga isa ka crew sa MV Trisha Kerstin 3 nga amo ang naglugdang nga roro vessel sa bahin sang baybayon sang Basilan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jose Pendioday, Lolo sang nasambit nga survivor, iya ginpahayag nga tuman gid ang ila nga kakulba sang ila nga nabalitaan nga naglugdang ang ginsakyan nga barko sang iya nga apo.
Suno kay Pendioday, wala siya makakaun sang mayo sa pagpaminsar kun ano na ang natabo sa iya apo.
Dako man ang iya nga pagpasalamat sa Bombo Radyo bangud nga diri nila nakit-an nga nakasurvive si Jujerick .
Matapos man nila nga mabalitaan nga safe ang iya apo, naisturya naman nila ini kag ginsaysay sini kun ano ang natabo sa iya.
Nagpahayag man si Jujerick sa iya lolo nga isa man sa kaupod sini nga Ilonggo kag kaangay man iya nga apprentice ang nagtaliwan sa nasambit nga insidente.
Apang wala naman sang iban pa nga detalye nga ginsaysay ang Ilonggo survivor bangud man nga nagarecover pa ini sa natabo sa ila barko.
Samtang, nagpaabot naman sang mensahe ang lolo ni Jujerick sa iya nga suno sa iya nga nagalain ang buot sini sa natabo sa apo apang iya man ini istoryahon kun mangin okay na ang kahimtangan sini.
Yari ang mensahe sang lolo ni Jujerick sa iya
Nakamuno naman sang una si Jujerick sa ila nga medyo daan na ang barko kun sa diin ini naga-apprentice, apang nagalaom ang pamilya nga kuntani maimbestigahan ang natabo agud mahatagan sang hustisya ang mga tawo nga napatay sa nasambit nga trahedya.
18 patay, 24 ang missing sa naglugdang nga RORO vessel sa Basilan
Naglab-ot na sa 18 ang patay kag 24 naman ang padayon pa nga ginapangita sa naglugdang nga RORO Vessel sa Pilas Island Basilan kaina sang kaagahon .
Ginpahayag ni Basilan Governor Mujiv Hataman nga 317 na ka tawo ang naluwas sang mga awtoridad.
Suno sa mga pasehero nga nakaluwas, kalmado ang dagat sang natabu ang insidente.
Samtang, ginpanginwala naman ni Commander Romel Duwa sang Coast Guard nga overloaded ang barko nga M/V Trisha Kerstin 3.
Kadam-an sa mga nakaluwas ang gindala sa Zamboanga kag ang iban naman sa Basilan.
Suno kay Mayor Arsina Kahing-Nanoh sang Pilas Island naglab-ot sa 342 ka mga pasahero ang nakalist sa M/V Trisha Kerstin 3 nga pakadto kuntani sa Jolo, Sulu.
Ginapanag-iyahan sang Aleson Shipping Lines Inc., ang barko kag gilayon naman nga nagpadala sang barko sa lugar sang natabo ang insidente.
Suno sa PCG, wala sang oil spill nga nagluntad kag possible nga epekto sang Amihan ukon Northeast Monsoon sa kadagatan ang rason sang insidente.
Pulis nga nagbangga sa fire truck, ginsipa sa pwesto
Temporaryo nga ginsipa sa puwesto ang isa ka police officer nga assigned sa Marikina City Police Station matapos ma-involve sa viral video nga pagbangga sini sa firetruck.
Epektibo Enero 23 sang gin-relieve ini sa pwesto samtang ginapatigayon ang imbestigasyon.
Nagpagwa naman sang show cause order ang Land Transportation Office batok sa drayber kag rehistrado nga tag-iya sng Toyota Vios nga gin-gamit sa insidente.
Sa video, makit-an nga nagpondo ang salakyan sa atubang sang fire truck kag ginbanggan ang paglabay sini.
Ginmanduan ang driver nga mag-atubang sa LTO Intelligence and Investigation Division sa Enero 29.
Base sa imbestigasyon, nagsugod ang insidente sa isa ka indi paghangpanay sa karsada sa Pasig City kag nagresulta sa baisay sang pulis kag driver sang truck.
Apisar may yara na sang settlement sa tunga sang pulis kag tag-iya sang volunteer fire truck, ginpanindugan sang kapulisan nga magapabilin ang ila administratibo nga tikang.
Ginsaylo ang involved nga pulis sa Station Headquarters Support Unit kag ginpangayuan man sang paathag sa insidente.
Ginpaidalom naman sang LTO sa alarm status ang salakyan kag ginsuspinde ang driver’s license sang pulis sa sulod sang 90 ka adlaw.
15 ka tawo, patay sa naglugdang nga barko sa Basilan
Naglab-ot na sa 15 ang kumpirmado nga napatay nga mga pasahero nga sakay sang barko nga naglugdang sa kadagatan nga sakop sang Pilas Island, Basilan.
Ang naglugdang nga barko amo ang MV Trisha Kerstin 3.
Halin sa Zamboanga City padulong sa Jolo, Sulu ang barko sang natabo ang trahedya.
Sa subong, padayon pa ang search and rescue operation sa ginabanta 40 ka iban pa nga sakay sang barko
”Wala sang may naga-atipan sa Malacañang rason sang iya pagmasakit ”- Sen.
Wala sang may naga-atipan sa Malacañang, ini ang nangin pahayag ni Senadora Imee Marcos matapos magpagwa sang pahayag si Palace Press Officer Claire Castro nga ginpaidalom sa medical observation ang iya utod nga si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Sa isa ka video sa Facebook, ginpahayag sang senadora nga posible nga magalala ang kahimtangan sang iya utod bangud wala sang may naga-atipan sa iya sang insakto.
Nagpahanumdum man ini sa Presidente nga unahon ang iya ikaayong lawas kag likawan ang mga tawo nga nagapastress sa iya sa Palasyo nga wala man sini ginhingadlan kun sin-o.
Gilayon naman nga naghatag sang pahayag ang Malacañang sa mensahe sang senadora nga suno sa ila indi dapat magpaka-insincere si Sen Imee kag indi man dapat himuon nga comedy ang kahimtangan sang Presidente.
Dugang pa ni Castro, indi magpakaplastik ang Senadora sa mata sang kadam-an.
Tatlo ka suspek, patay sa pagpang-ambush sa Mayor sang Shariff Aguak sa Maguindanao del Sur
Patay ang tatlo ka mga suspek sa pag-ambush sa salakyan ni Shariff Aguak Mayor Akmad Ampatuan samtang nagapauli ini sa iya nga balay sa probinsya sang Maguindanao del Sur kahapon nga adlaw Enero 25.
Base sa mga impormasyon, isa ka rocket proppeled grenade ukon RPG 7 ang gingamit sang mga suspetsado.
Nakuha-an man sang CCTV footage ang nasambit nga insidente kun sa diin isa ka gray mini van ang gin-gamit sang mga suspek sa pagpalupok kag gilayon nga nagpalagyo.
Pilason naman ang duha ka escort ni Mayor Ampatuan samtang wala man sang na-agum nga pilas ang alkalde.
Gilayon naman nga nagpatigayon sang hot pursuit operation ang mga awtoridad kun sa diin napatay ang tatlo ka mga suspek sa engkwentro.
Nahibaluan nga ikatatlo na ini nga may nagtuyo sa pagpapatay sa Mayor.
Nagapadayon naman ang imbestigasyon para matul-id ang motibo sa insidente.
Lava flow sa Bulkang Mayon, naglab-ot sa 𝟭.𝟯 tubtob 𝟯.𝟮 kilometros
Naglab-ot sa 1.3 tubtub 3.2 kilometers ang lava flow sang Bulkan Mayon base sa latest update sang DOST-PHIVOLCS.
Ang nasambit nga Lava flow ang malapit na sa pila ka mga kabarangayan, pareho sang Brgy.
Sa karun, padayon ang pagbantay sang ahensya sa aktibidades sang Bulkan Mayon.
Cargo vessel, nagkapan malapit sa Scarborough; 2 Pinoy seafarers, patay
Patay ang duha ka Pinoy seafarers matapos nagkapan ang Singaporean-flagged cargo vessel malapit sa Scarborough Shoal.
Sandig sa report sang Chinese Embassy sa Manila, halin sa Pilipinas ang M/V Devon Bay kag padulong kuntani sa China sakay ang 21 ka mga Pilipino sang natabo ang insidente.
Nag-release man ang embahada sang China sang mga laragway sang 13 ka crew members nga na-rescue.
Nag-deploy naman ang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) sang BRP Teresa Magbanua, BRP Cape San Agustin, kag duha ka PCG aircraft agud magpatigayon ang search kag rescue operations.
As of press time, natalana pa nga ikumpirma sang PCG ang duha ka fatalities nga gin-report sang Chinese government.
Mga health expert, nagpaandam sa publiko batok sa influenza-like illness
Nagpaandam ang mga health expert sa publiko batok sa influenza-like illness nga mahimo makuha bangud sa matugnaw nga klima sa pungsod nga epekto sang hanging amihan.
Rontgene Solante nga ang ini nga sakit mahimo may madugay nga epekto sa lawas sang isa ka indibidwal.
Nagpaandam man ini sa makahalawa nga virus nga padayon nga naga-rason sa pagdala sa ospital sag isa ka indibidwal nahanungod sa sini nga sakit.
Gani ginpabaskog sang eksperto ang importansya sang pagpabakuna kag padayon nga ipatuman ang mga awareness initiative tungod kay seasonal ang respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) sa Pilipinas.
Ang RSV isa ka common nga rason sang respiratory infection nga mahimo magresulta sa seryoso nga sakit sa mga babies, kabataan, kag mga adult nga naga-edad 60 pataas.
Sa karon, wala pa sang bulong para sa RSV, gani mas massagid nga mapunggan ini samtang temprano pa.
Zaldy Co, handa nga mangin testigo sa ikatlo nga impeachment complaint batok kay PBBM
Handa nga mangin testigo si anay Ako Bicol Partylist Representative Zaldy Co sa ikatatlo nga impeachment complaint sa Kamara batok kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Mahimo mangin importante ang testimonya ni Co kun magpadayon ang proseso sa nasambit nga reklamo.
Suno ini kay anay Anakalusugan Partylist Rep.
Mike Defensor nga isa sa nag-file sang impeachment complaint nga wala ginbaton sang Secretary General sang Kamara.
Suno pa sa iya, ang isyu sang indi pagbaton sang complaint ang nagbukas sang mga pamangkot nahanungod sa legal kag procedural nga mga pamaagi sa sulod sang Kamara.
Ang sitwasyon nagdugang sa tensyon sa House of Representatives, bangod may nagakalain-lain nga interpretasyon ang mga mamalidha nahanungod sa husto nga proseso sang impeachment.
May mga nagapahayag nga ang indi pagbaton sang mga reklamo mahimo magapaluya sang transparency kag due process.
Sandro Marcos, indi pagpunggan ang Kamara sa impeachment complaint batok sa iya amay
Sandro Marcos nga indi pagpunggan sang House of Representatives ang anuman nga impeachment complaint batok sa iya amay nga si Presidente Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Ginpahayag niya nga obligasyon sang Kamara suno sa Konstitusyon nga hatagan sang nagakaigo nga proseso ang bisan ano nga impeachment complaint batok sa sin-o man nga impeachable official.
Ini matapos magsumiter sang impeachment complaint ang abogado nga si Andre de Jesus batok sa Presidente, nga nagalakip sang alegasyon nga nag-guba sa pagsalig sang publiko.
Nahibaluan nga duwa pa ka iban nga grupo ang nag-file man sang dugang nga reklamo sa Presidente, apang wala ini ginbaton sang House Secretary General bangud wala ini sa Pilipinas subong.
Suno naman kay House Committee on Justice chairperson Gerville Luistro nga magapadayon ang impeachment proceedings bisan pa plano sang mga nagreklamo nga magpangayo bulig sa Korte Suprema.
Gintinguhaan sang mga lider sang Kamara sa publiko nga ang pagbaton sang tanan nga impeachment complaints makabulig sa pagpadayon sang transparency kag pagsalig sang pumuluyo sa proseso.
Marcos sa mga nagadali nga maghalin siya sa pwesto: ‘Wag muna kayo masyado ma-excite’
Ini ang mensahe ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
sa iya mga kritiko nga nagadali nga maglayas na siya sa posisyon.
Ginpahayag ini sang presidente matapos siya nakaguwa sa ospital bangud sa paglain sang pamatyag nga sang ulihi nakumpirma nga diverticulitis.
Suno kay Marcos, tuga sang stress kag pag-edad ang iya kondisyon, apang sa pangkabug-usan, maayo na ang iya nga pamatyag.
Mabatian man si Palace Press Officer Claire Castro sa video nga nagasiling nga “overworked” si Marcos kag gina-abisuhan ini sang doktor nga magpahuway.
Sabat sang presidente, indi man ini mahimo bangud madamo ang iya trabaho.
Nauna na nga ginpahayag sang Palasyo sang Malacañang nga nagpaligad sang gab-i sa ospital si Marcos sang Myerkules bilang precautionary measure sa “discomfort” nga iya nabatyagan.
Malacañang: Utang sang Pilipinas, magatimbuok kun maglapaw sa P60 ang baylo sang isa ka US dollar
nga maglab-ot sa P60 ang baylo sang isa ka US dollar.
Ginpahayag ini ni Palace Press Officer Claire Castro sang ginpamangkot kun ano ang mahimo magtulod sa Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas nga magpatunga na samtang nagaluya ang balor sang piso kontra sa dolyar.
Enero 21 sang nagkitaay sanday Marcos kag BSP Governor Eli Remolona Jr.
sa Malacañang agud nga diskusyunan ang policy action sang bangko central agud nga mabuhinan ang interest rates.
Suno kay Castro, pananglitan maglapaw sa P60 threshold ang kampyo sang piso kontra dolyar, mahimo ini magresulta sa pagtimbuok sang utang sang Pilipinas.
“Kapag tumaas po kasi ng 60 pesos, bumaba iyong value ng peso definitely mag-i-increase iyong debt natin because iyong palitan po ay tataas po iyon,” suno sa iya.
Ginsulit man sini nga indi lang Pilipinas ang naga-eksperyensya sang pagluya sang balor sang currency kundi mangin ang iban nga mga pungsod sa Asya bangud sa nanuhay-tuhay nga global factors.
“Sa usapin ng pamilihang pinansiyal, ang paghina ng piso ay dulot ng kakulangan sa balanse ng kalakalan at pananalapi.
Hindi lamang ito nararanasan ng Pilipinas sapagkat maging ang ibang bansa sa Asia ay may katulad na kalagayan – nakakaranas din ng paghina ng kanilang mga pera noong 2025,” suno sa iya.
“Ipinakikita rin nito ang pangkalahatang pag-igting ng US dollar at ang inaasahang pagkaantala sa pagbaba ng interest rates ng US Federal Reserve.
So, mas nakatuon po ang BSP sa pagpigil sa labis na paggalaw ng halaga ng piso kaysa sa pagtatakda ng tiyak na antas ng palitan,” dugang sini.
Sa pihak sini suno sa Palace official, kontrolado ang headline inflation sang Pilipinas kag ginalauman nga sulod gihapon sa target range sang gobyerno sa 2026 kag 2027.
Matandaan nga sa pagtakop sang trading sang Enero 15, nagdangat sa P59.46 ang baylo sang isa ka US dollar nga lapaw pa sa nauna nga historic low nga P59.44 nga na-rekord sang Enero 14.#
Gin-ako ni Interior and Local Government Secretary Jonvic Remulla nga masakit para sa iya nga makit-an sa presuhan ang iya abyan nga si former Senator Bong Revilla.
Kasunod ini sang pagbutang kay Revilla sa Quezon City Jail bangud sa indi mapyansahan nga kaso nga malversation nga naangot sa ginaalegar nga ghost flood control project sa Bulacan.
Suno kay Remulla, apisar pa sang ila nga pag-abyanay, mas pasulabihon gihapon sini ang iya trabaho para sa interes sang pungsod.
Dadalhin ka dito habang hindi ka pa arraigned.
Pag-serve ng warrant, nag-surrender siya, sabi ko ako na maghahatid sayo, as far as it goes, ‘yun na ‘yung huling pag-uusap namin,” suno sa tiglikom.
Uunahin ko muna ang bansa kahit ano mangyari,” dugang pa sini.
Ginpaanggid man niya ini sa iya nga relasyon kay former House Speaker kag subong Leyte Rep.
Na-implicate man si Romualdez sa flood control corruption, apang wala pa ini opisyal nga napasakaan sang kaso kaangot sa amo nga eskandalo.
Pero uunahin natin lagi ang bansa,” suno kay Remulla.
Updanay sila anay ni Romualdez sa Upsilon Sigma Phi sa University of the Philippines.
Kahapon, Enero 22, sang gin-release man sang DILG ang mga laragway ni Revilla kag sang anum ka iban pa nga akusado, apang naka-blur ang ila nga mga itsura antes ini ginpadala sa media.
“Ang dami sa inyo nagre-request, sabi ko sige ilabas ko na kasi wala naman akong balak na itago ‘yan.
Ang bilis lang talaga ng pangyayari,” pahayag sini.
Nahibaluan nga nagapaidalom pa sanday Revilla sa isa ka semana nga quarantine agud masigurado nga wala ini sang makalalaton nga balatian antes ini isimpon sa iban nga persons deprived of liberty (PDL) sa selda.
Una na nga ginpasiguro sang DILG kag BJMP nga wala sila sang ihatag nga special ukon VIP treatment kay Revilla apisar nga mataas ang posisyon sini sang una.#
Nakakuha sang impormasyon si former Anakalusugan Partylist Rep.
Mike Defensor nga natultulan ang kontrobersyal nga whistleblower nga si Orly Guteza.
Si Guteza nga anay staff ni resigned Ako Bicol Party-list Rep.
Ang nagdala sa iya sa Senado bilang testigo amo si Senator Rodante Marcoleta, apang nauna na nga ginpahayag sang senador nga ang nagpakilala sa ila sa isa kag isa amo si Defensor.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga wala sila sang direkta nga komunikasyon, apang sa iya nga ulihi nga impormasyon, na-locate na si Guteza apang indi siya sigurado kun sa diin ini subong.
“Parang na-locate na siya, pero hindi ako sigurado kung he is still under the custody of the Marines or malaya na siya,” suno sa anay kongresista.
“Ang maganda naman ay syempre buhay siya.
Ako naman ay natutuwa para sa kaniyang pamilya,” pahayag pa ni Defensor.
Ginkumpirma man sini nga may common friend sila ni Guteza rason nga nangin kilala man niya ini kag gin-refer kay Marcoleta nga sang una amo ang chairman sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee.
Matandaan nga matapos ang iya testimoniya sa Senado, nangindulaan na si Guteza.
May nagguwa nga reports nga yara ini sa kustodiya sang Philippine Marine Corps (PMC) bilang isa ka retired serviceman, apang ginpanginwala ini sang Philippine Navy.
Sa pag-resume sang hearing sang Senate Blue Ribbon panel sang Lunes, nagpaguwa si Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson sang show cause order batok sa iya.
Nagpaandam ini nga maga-isyu sila sang arrest warrant kun wala sang maayo nga paathag kun ngaa wala gihapon ini nagsipot sa hearing.
Nalakip ang pag-“kidnap” kay former President Rodrigo Roa Duterte sa mga rason kun ngaa nag-file sang impeachment complaint sanday former Anakalusugan Partylist Rep.
Ginpahayag ini ni Defensor sa interview sang Bombo Radyo apisar nga nauna na ginsiling sang ila nga grupo nga ipatpat nila ang grounds sang impeachment kag iban pa nga mga detalye sa press briefing buwas, Enero 23.
Marso 11, 2025 sang gindakop si Duterte kag gindala sa detention facility sang International Criminal Court (ICC) sa The Hague, Netherlands bangud sa kaso nga crimes against humanity.
“Hindi talaga nirespeto ang ating Saligang Batas, at maging ang proseso sa Rome Statute,” suno kay Defensor.
Para niyong kinidnap eh, state kidnapping nga yung tawag natin diyan.”
Ginmensyonar man sini ang isyu sa unprogrammed allocations kun sa diin apektado suno sa iya ang Panay-Guimaras-Negros Bridge.
Imbes na lagyan ng pondo, inilipat, nilagay ang pondo sa unprogrammed allocation tapos ginawang flood control,” suno sa iya.
Magluwas diri, na-mensyonar man ni Defensor ang isyu sa presyuhanay sang kalamay.
Matandaan nga sa isa sa mga expose ni former Rep.
Zaldy Co sadtong 2025, ginbuyagyag sini ang ginaalegar nga iregularidad sa Bureau of Customs kag ang mga ginansya sa sugar kag onion importation.
Dugang pa, lakip man sa highlights sang ila complaint amo ang kontrobersiya sa pondo sang Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation (PDIC) kag PhilHealth nga ginsaylo sa national treasury.
Ang katapusan nga na-mensyonar ni Defensor nga highlight sang ila complaint amo ang alegasyon sang presidential sister nga si Senator Imee Marcos nga adik si President Marcos.
“More or less, nasa six to seven cases ang diyan sa amin,” suno kay Defensor.
Ginrason sang opisina nga wala sang bisan isa sa ila ang awtorisado nga magbaton sang complaint.
Maga-istoryahanay pa sanday Defensor kag ang iya grupo kun ipasaka nila liwat ang ila nga reklamo.
Antes kanday Defensor, wala man ginbaton ang separado nga complaint batok kay Marcos nga ginpasaka naman sang Bagong Alyansang Makabayan.
Matandaan nga ang isa lang ang madinalag-on nga naka-file sang impeachment complaint batok kay Marcos nga amo si Atty.
Posible nga may ipasaka nga reklamo batok sa Office of the House Secretary General matapos wala sini ginbaton ang duha ka magkasunod nga impeachment complaints nga ipasaka kuntani batok kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Natabo ini sang nag-file sang separado nga mga complaint ang Bagong Alyansang Makabayan kag ang grupo nanday former Anakalusugan Party-list Rep.
Ginrason sang opisina nga didto sa Taiwan si House Secretary General Cheloy Garafil agud magbaton sang award, kag wala sang bisan isa nga nabilin nga awtorisado nga magbaton sang impeachment complaint.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga wala man lang sila ginpasulat sa logbook nga makapakita kuntani nga nakakadto sila sa office.
“That is very, very possible, dahil ang hindi nila pagtanggap, talaga namang may mga batas na naapektuhan diyan,” suno kay Defensor sang ginpamangkot siya kun maga-file sila sang reklamo.
Paathag nila, antes sila nagkadto sa opisina ni Garafil, naantisipar na nila nga indi pagbatunon ang ila nga complaint batok sa presidente, bangud amo man ini ang ginhimo sa complaint sang Bagong Alyansang Makabayan.
“Sabi nila, kahit sino [sa opisina], hindi authorized na mag-receive,” suno kay Defensor.
Paathag sang kongresista, wala man nakabutang sa Konstitusyon nga dapat si Secretary Gerafil gid ang mabaton sang impeachment complaint, kundi ang iya lamang nga opisina.
Bangud sang natabo, gindala nanday Defensor ang ila nga mga dokumento.
“Immaterial naman kung iiwan mo doon [ang document] na hindi naman officially nagkaroon ng formal na acceptance.
Eh baka ibasura nila, eh sayang naman… At baka makikita pa nila ang mismong kaso na ifa-file namin.”
Pahayag sini, ma-istorya pa sila sang iya grupo kun i-file nila liwat ang reklamo — kag kun san-o ini himuon.
Sa bahin sang reklamo sang Makabayan bloc, ginbilin nila ang ila nga mga dokumento sa opisina ni Garafil.
Ila gina-insister nga trabaho sang secretary general nga i-transmit ang impeachment complaint kay House Speaker Faustino “Bojie” Dy III sa Lunes kun mag-resume ang session.
Nagpasaka sang ethics complaint ang abogado nga si Atty.
Ginareklamo si Ejercito sang “gross neglect of constitutional duty in office” bangud wala ini sang hulag nga ginhimo sa separado nga ethics complaint batok kay Sen.
Chiz Escudero nga ginpasaka sadtong Oktubre 2, 2025.
Sa iya complaint, ginhingyo man sang abogado ang pagkakas kay Ejercito bilang chairperson sang amo nga committee.
Nagpanindugan naman si Ejercito nga indi pa makapatigayon sang hearings ang iya nga komitiba bangud wala pa nakumpleto ang ila nga mga myembro.
Magluwas diri suno sa iya, nangin masako man ang Senado sa budget deliberations kag sa bicameral conference committee.
The said cases will be heard in order of filing,” kabahin naman sang sabat sang senador.
Matandaan nga ang ethics complaint batok kay Escudero sang 2025 ang nag-ugat sa P30-million nga campaign donation nga iya ginbaton halin sa kontraktor nga si Lawrence Lubiano kadungan sang 2022 elections.
Revilla, wala ginpasulod sa QC Jail–Male Dormitory
Wala ginpahanugutan ang pagpasulod sang mga gadgets kag mga bayo sang anay senador nga si Ramon “Bong” Revilla Jr.
Suno sa ahensya propesyonal ang mga personnel sang BJMP kag wala sang mga ini gina-tolerate ang VIP treatment.
Nahibaluan nga sang Lunes, Enero 20 nagpagwa ang Sandiganbayan Third Division sang warrant of arrest kag gin-hold ang departure order batok kay Revilla kag sa anum pa ka mga indibidwal may kaangtanan sa ginapatihan nga P92.8 million nga ghost flood control project sa Pandi, Bulacan.
Nagsungka si Revilla sang Lunes sa gab-i sa PNP–Criminal Investigation and Detection Group sa Camp Crame kag ginsaylo sa jail facility sang Martes.
Kahapon nga adlaw ginbisita siya sang iya mga kabataan kag utod sa iya selda.
Si Revilla kag ang iya mga upod nga akusado nga sanday Brice Hernandez, Jaypee Mendoza, Arjay Domasig kag Juanito Mendoza ang yara sa nagkalain-lain nga selda samtang nagapadayon sang mandatory nga pito ka adlaw nga quarantine.
Pagkatapos sang pito ka adlaw nga quarantine, si Revilla kag ang apat pa ka iban ang makaupod na sa iban nga mga PDL sa ila selda.
Nahibaluan nga nakabayad na si Revilla sang piyansa para sa iya graft case, apang nagapabilin siya sa prisohan bangod sang malversation charges.
Lima ka mga pusil ni Atong Ang, ginturn-over sa Mandaluyong City Police Station
Ginturn-over sa Mandaluyong City Police Station ang lima ka mga pusil sang negosyante nga si Charlie ”Atong” Ang.
Ang pagturn-over sang mga pusil nahanungod sa revocation order sa fireaerms licenses ni Ang nga ginpaguwa sang Philippine National Police (PNP).
Suno kay acting PNP-FEO chief Police Brigadier General Jose Manalad nga isa sa mga pusil ni Ang ang nadula kag wala pa nalakip sa mga ginsumite nga armas sa awtoridad.
Suno kay Manalad dapat e-explikar sang kampo ni Ang paagi sa sulat sa PNP-FEO ang pagakadula sang pusil.
Magapabilin sa kustodiya sang Mandaluyong City Police ang mga pusil apisar kun ipasa ini sa supply accountable officer (SAO) sang PNP-FEO.
Samtang, ang PNP Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) nagdala sang mga arrest warrant batok kay Ang sa isa sini ka farm sa Tanauan City, Batangas, nga ginapanag-iyahan apang wala siya didto.
Ginpunto man ni Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla nga dapat pirmi may body camera ang mga pulis nga nagapatuman sang mga arrest warrant batok kay Ang.
Ini agud malikawan ang posible nga pang-abuso ukon extortion sa nasambit kaso.
Leviste, nagpanawagan sa AMLC nga usisaon ang “intriguing” nga tag sa Cabral files
Nagpanawagan si Batangas 1st District Rep.
Leandro Leviste sa Anti-Money Laundering Council (AMLC) nga usisaon ang mga pinansyal nga transaksyon sang mga proponent kag mga kontratista nga may kaangtanan sa mga “intriguing” nga tag sa ginatawag nga Cabral files sang 2025 DPWH budget.
Suno sa iya, sarang magamit ang mga rekord sang AMLC agud mahibaluan kun may koneksyon ang mga proponent kag ang mga nagdala-og nga bidder sa mga kuwestiyonable nga proyekto.
Ginbuksan ni Leviste nga ang Cabral files nga nagabalor sang bilyon-bilyon nga pondo lakip na ang P401 bilyon nga allocable funds kag iban pa nga pondo nga may nagkalain-lain nga coded nga tag.
Apisar nagsiling siya nga wala siya sang nakita nga klaro nga anomalya, ginpahayag niya ang iya kabalaka nga sobra sa P500 bilyon nga balor sang mga proyekto ang may klaro nga ginatudlo nga mga proponent.
Ginpunto man sini ang pagtipon sang mga proponent nga nagabukas sang palamangkutanon kun paano ginatugyan kag ginpili ang mga proyekto.
Ginpanindugan sini nga indi matuod ang mga alegasyon nga gin-manipula ang Cabral files kag ang mga personal nga akusasyon batok sa iya.
Nagpanawagan man si Leviste sa DPWH nga ihatag ang tanan nga may kaangtanan nga mga dokumento sa Ombudsman agud mangin insakto kag husto ang imbestigasyon kag mapasabat ang mga may sala.
Bayan, nakahanda nga magpasaka sang ikaduha nga impeachment complaint batok kay PBBM
Nakahanda ang progresibo nga koalisyon nga Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) nga magpasaka sang ikaduha nga impeachment complaint batok kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
tungod sa paglapas sa pagsalig sang publiko sa isyu sang national budget kag multibillion-peso flood control scandal.
Ginpahayag ni Bayan president Renato Reyes nga ginalauman nga dal-on sa reklamo ang pag-abuso sa unprogrammed appropriations nga madugay na nga ginabantayan ni ACT Teachers Rep.
Antonio Tinio kag ang ginahimo nga kickback scheme nga naguwa gikan sa sala nga paggamit sang national budget.
Suno kay Reyes nga nagalakip man sa mga nagareklamo ang mga nagabayad sang buwis, mga trabahador, mga mangunguma, estudyante kag iban pa nga nagapanindugan sa anti-corruption.
Dugang pa ni Reyes, importante ang pagpasaka sang ikaduha nga reklamo, bangod gin-kumpirmar ni House Secretary General Cheloy Garafil nga ang una nga impeachment complaint nga ginfile sang nakaligad nga semana napasa na sa opisina sang Speaker.
Kon ma-refer na ang una nga reklamo sa House Committee on Justice kag ikonsiderar ang pagpatuman sini, ang ano man nga masunod nga impeachment complaint indi na pwede ipasa sulod sang isa ka tuig.
Ginalauman ni Reyes nga ang verified complaint mapasa sa Speaker kag masulod sa order of business.
Marcos, wala sang bug-at, suno sa constitutional law expert
Wala sang nakita ang isa ka constitutional law expert nga bastante ukon mabug-at nga basehan agud ma- impeach si Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Ini ang kasunod sang impeachment complaint nga ginpasaka sa kamara batok kay Presidente Marcos Jr.
kaangot sa ginaalegar nga korapsiyon sa 2025 budget partikular na sa unprogrammed funds.
Michael Yusingco, iya ginpahayag nga apisar may pagka-uyaya sa iya mga hulag ang presidente, wala siya sang nakita nga valid nga rason nga sa impeachment.
Suno kay Yusingco, wala man sa “timing” kag ulihi na ang amo nga complaint bangud manugtapos na ang termino ni Marcos.
Sa isyu naman nga scripted ang impeachment matapos naggwa nga sa kampo mismo sang presidente halin ang complaint, ginsiling ni Yusingco nga kinahanglan ini id-idon sang Secretary General sang kamara kag kun madeterminar nga ini ang para lang sa political tactics, dapat gilayon ini nga ibasura.
Warships sang China, ginradyuhan ang aircraft sang PCG sa Bajo de Masinloc
Makapila ka beses nga ginradyuhan sang People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) sang China ang aircraft sang Philippine Coast Guard samtang nga yara ini sa Bajo de Masinloc.
Ang Bajo de Masinloc nga kilala man bilang Scarborough Shoal ukon Panatag Shoal ang nahamtang 124 nautical miles halin sa Masinloc, Zambales.
Sulod ini sa 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone sang Pilipinas sandig sa nakabutang sa United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
Suno sa PCG, sang amo nga tion, naga-conduct ang aircraft sang kinaandan nga Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) flight.
Sa amo nga flight, na-detect ang indi awtorisado nga presensya sang maritime forces sang China sa teritoryo sang Pilipinas.
Lakip diri ang duha ka barko sang China Coast Guard kag duha ka warships sa idalom sang People’s Liberation Army Navy.
May yara man sang lima kag mga barko nga ginapatihan nga Chinese maritime militia nga malapit man sa Bajo de Masinloc.
Sang nagradyo sila sa Philippine aircraft, nagbalos naman ang aircrew kag nagpaathag nga ang ila ginahimo ang nagasunod sa UNCLOS, 2016 Arbitral Award, kag Philippine Maritime Zones Act.
Nahibaluan nga ginahimo ang aerial patrol para nga ma-monitor kag maproteksyunan ang Filipino fishermen kag ang marine resources, kag malantaw man ang illegal nga presensya sang Chinese maritime forces sa West Philippine Sea.
BJMP, nagpasalig nga wala sang VIP treatment para kay Bong Revilla
Ginpasalig sang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) nga wala sang special treatment nga ihatag kay anay Senador Bong Revilla samtang yara ini sa presuhan.
Kahapon sang hapon sang gindala si Revilla sa Quezon City Jail Male Dormitory sa Payatas, Quezon City.
Nagaatubang sila sa kaso nga Malversation of Public Funds through Falsification of Public Documents kun sa diin indi sila mahimo makapyansa.
Suno kay Jail Superintendent Jayrex Bustinera, spokesperson sang BJMP, ibutang si Revilla sa pasilidad kun sa diin makaigo ang 10 ka tawo.
May yara sang kasilyas kag palaliguan sa amo nga jail facility, apang taga-dughan lamang ang kataason sang dividers.
Antes paupdon sa iban nga persons deprived of liberty, ipaidalom anay si Revilla sa medical quarantine nga magalawig sang isa ka semana.
Kaangay sa iban nga PDLs, magabaton man ang anay senador sang allowance nga P100 nga maga-cover na sang iya nga pagkaon sa bilog nga adlaw.
Suno pa sa BJMP, polisa nila nga wala sang VIP treatment, kag pananglitan mapamatud-an nga may special treatment, kasuhan kag manabat ang mga involved.
Nahibaluan nga temporaryo lang nga ibutang si Revilla sa amo nga male dormitory samtang nga ginahulat ang desisyon sang Sandiganbayan sa iya apelar nga isaylo sa Philippine National Police custodial facility sa Camp Crame.
Visayas Grid, masobra duha ka oras nga ginpaidalom sa Yellow Alert
Masobra duha ka oras nga ginpaidalom sa Yellow Alert ang Visayas Grid.
Sa ginpaguwa nga abiso, nag-umpisa ini alas singko sa hapon tubtub alas syete sa gab-i, kag ginkumpirma sang National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP) nga ginbawi ini sang 7:45 sang gab-i.
Ini ang una nga yellow alert nga gin-isyu sang subong nga tuig.
Gina-isyu ang yellow alert kon kulang ang operating margin agud malab-ut ang contingency requirement sang transmission grid.
Suno sa grid operator, ginpasaka ang alert kasunod sang forced outage sa TVI Unit 1 nga may yara sang kapasidad nga 169 megawatts, kag PEDC Unit 2 nga may kapasidad nga 83.7 megawatts.
Ang TVI Unit 1 ang parte sang Therma Visayas Inc.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang PEDC Unit 2 ang iya naman sang Panay Energy Development Corporation coal plant sa Iloilo City diri sa Western Visayas.
Magluwas sa sini, may 10 na nga daan ka power plants nga naka-forced outage subong nga Enero, apat halin sang 2025, tatlo halin sang 2024, duha halin sang 2023, kag isa halin sang 2021.
Dugang pa diri, may 21 ka mga planta nga naga-opera sa ginpanubo nga kapasidad nga nag-resulta sa kabug-usan nga 681.1 megawatts nga indi available sa grid.
Una na nga nagpaandam ang Department of Energy (DOE) nga posible maapektuhan sang tyempo ang Visayas kag Mindanao grids.
Naaresto sang mga otoridad ang pareho nga akusado ni anay Senator Ramon “Bong” Revilla Jr.
nga si Christina Mae del Rosario Pineda sa Benguet kaina sang aga sang Martes, Enero 20.
Ini ang may kaangtanan sa kaso nga malversation bangud sa P92.8 million ghost flood control project sa Pandi, Bulacan.
Kalakip siya sa pito nga gin-isyuhan sang arrest warrant sang Sandiganbayan Third Division kag hold departure order sang Lunes.
Ang iban pa nga akusado nga si Revilla ang nag-surrender sa PNP-CIDG.
Samtang, sanday anay DPWH Bulacan Assistant District Engineer Brice Hernandez kag Jaypee Mendoza, nga pareho nga nagtambong sa hearing sang Senado sa flood control anomaly, ang gin-aresto man kahapon sang NBI operatives sa Senado.
Sin-o man nga nagatago kay Atong Ang, manabat sa layi – DOJ
Nagpaandam ang Department of Justice nga manabat sa layi ang sin-o man nga madakpan nga nagatago sa pugante nga si Charlie ‘Atong’ Ang.
Polo Martinez, posible mangatubang sa kaso nga ‘Obstruction of Justice’ ang sin-o man nga mapamatud-an nga nagabulig agud matago si Ang.
Matandaan nga gin-isyuhan sang ‘arrest warrant’ gikan sa Regional Trial Courts sang Lipa, Batangas kag Sta.
Cruz, Laguna si Ang apang tubtob subong, wala pa ini maaresto.
Ginaatubang sini ang kasonga ‘kidnapping with homicide’ kag ‘kidnapping with serious illegal detention’ may kaangtanan sa missing sabungeros.
Bong Revilla, gin-updan sang iya asawa kag kabataan sang nagsungka ini sa PNP
Ginkumpirma sang Philippine National Police (PNP) paagi sa isa ka official statement nga boluntaryo nga nagsungka sa PNP National Headquarters sa Camp Crame si former Senator Ramon “Bong” Revilla Jr.
Gin-updan siya sang iya nga asawa kag mga kabataan.
Gilayon man ini nga ginpaidalom sa standard booking kag documentation procedures lakip na sa medical examination.
Ang pagsungka sang former senator ang kasunod sang arrest warrant nga gindagdag sang Sandiganbayan 3rd Division sa iya kag sa anum ka iban pa kaangot sa non-bailable malversation case bangud sang maanomaliya nga proyekto sa Pandi, Bulacan.
Antes nag-abot sa Camp Crame, naka-Facebook Live pa si Revilla kun sa diin iya ginpasalig nga indi siya mag-atras kag atubangon sini ang kaso batok sa iya.
“Nakakalungkot po, parang wala yatang due process,” suno kay Revilla.
Apang dugang niya, “Haharapin ko to nang walang takot.
Alam kong hindi ako pababayaan ng Diyos, dahil wala akong kasalanan dito.”
Suno pa sa iya, indi niya malaragway ang iya ginabatyag subong.
“Napakasakit po para sa akin, at sa aking pamilya.”
Antes nagtapos ang video, nagpalagas pa ini nga: “Alam kong hindi ako pababayaan ng Diyos.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas sa arrest warrant nga ginpaguwa sang Sandiganbayan, may hold departure order man batok kay Revilla kag sa anum ka iban pa nga mga personalidad kaangot sa non-bailable case nga malversation.
Kaangot ini sa ginaalegar nga P92.8 million ghost flood control project sa Pandi, Bulacan.
‘Please pray for me’ —Bong Revilla matapos nagguwa ang arrest warrant halin sa Sandiganbayan
Naghingyo sang pagpangamuyo si anay Senador Bong Revilla paagi sa iya Facebook live video kasunod sang arrest warrant nga gin-isyu sang Sandiganbayan batok sa iya.
Gin-post ang video antes ginkumpirma nga gindala na ang anay senador sa Camp Crame subong nga gab-i.
Emosyonal si Revilla sa iya nga statement samtang nga ginapasalig sini sa publiko nga indi siya mag-atras kag atubangon sini ang kaso batok sa iya.
Magluwas kay Revilla, ang iban nga respondents sa kaso amo sanday:
Sandig sa prosecution, naghimbunanay ang mga respondents agud nga ma-facilitate ang pag-release sang P76 million para sa pagtukod sang P92.8 million flood control project sa Pandi, Bulacan.
Gindeklarar ini nga natapos na apang wala man gali na-implementar sandig sa inspeksyon kag sa testimoniya sang mga testigo.
Gin-alegar nga ginpeke sang respondents ang accomplishment reports, nag-isyu sang fraudulent billing documents, kag nag-endorso sang disbursement vouchers.
Ginkumpirma ni Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla nga nag-surrender na sa Philippine National Police (PNP) si anay Senador Bong Revilla.
Ini kasunod sang arrest warrant nga gindagdag sang Sandiganbayan 3rd Division sa iya kag sa anum ka iban pa kaangot sa non-bailable malversation case bangud sang maanomaliya nga proyekto sa Pandi, Bulacan.
Gindala ang anay senador sa Camp Crame subong nga gab-i, Enero 19.
Wala na ini sang ginpaguwa nga statement sa atubang sang media, apang sa iya Facebook Live video antes ang iya pa-surrender, nagpahayag si Revilla nga atubangon niya ang kaso kag nakahibalo siya suno sa iya nga indi siya pagpabay-an sang Diyos bangud wala man siya sang sala.
Dugang niya, “Haharapin ko to nang walang takot.
Magluwas sa arrest warrant nga ginpaguwa sang Sandiganbayan, may hold departure order man batok kay Revilla kag sa anum ka iban pa nga mga personalidad kaangot sa non-bailable case nga malversation.
Na-implicate si Revilla sa infrastructure corruption issue matapos ginpanglawag anay ni former Public Works Undersecretary Roberto Bernardo ang pangalan sang mga senador kag kongresista nga ginaalegar nakabaton sang kickbacks sa Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) projects.
Ginpasakaan sang impeachment complaint ni Atty.
Ini ang una nga impeachment complaint nga gindagdag batok kay Marcos.
Suno sa Presidential Communications Office (PCO) ginakilala sang Malacañang ang reklamo kabahin sang demokratiko nga proseso sang Konstitusyon.
Suno sa iya nga dapat ma-impeach ang Presidente bangud sa pagpirma sini sang national budget nga nagapahanugot sa pagsaylo sang sobra nga pondo sang PhilHealth sa National Treasury.
Suno kay De Jesus, ang impeachment naga-exist para sa mga sitwasyon nga gina-abusar sang Presidente ang iya poder, ginalapas sini ang Konstitusyon, kag ginapabay-an ang pagsalig sang publiko.
Apang nagpahayag naman si House good government and public accountability panel chair Joel Chua nga wala sang mapag-on nga basehan agud nga i-impeach si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Suno sa iya nga dapat may ara gid sang klaro, specific kag well-substantiated allegations agud magpasaka sang isa ka impeachment.
Dizon: ‘Pagkompleto sa Aganan Flyover, magiging Christmas gift ni PBBM sa mga Ilonggo’
Personal na ininspekyon ni DPWH Secretary Vince Dizon ang kontrobersyal na Aganan Flyover sa bayan ng Pavia, Iloilo.
Ang nakatiwangwang at palpak na flyover ay may total budget na ₱802 million at sinimulang ipatayo noong Hulyo 2020.
Ito ay may target completion date dapat sana na 24 buwan o dalawang taon lamang ngunit hanggang ngayon ay nakatengga at hindi pa rin ito napapakinabangan.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo kay Dizon, sinabi nito na may nakalatag nang plano para sa pagpapatuloy ng konstruksyon.
Aniya, ang gagawin nila ngayon ay kumuha ng second opinion mula sa isang foreign consultant at tatagal ito ng isang buwan.
Ayon sa kalihim, kapag may go-signal na, sisimulan agad ang final construction.
Dagdag pa ni Dizon, kapag natapos ito ngayong taon, ito ang magiging Christmas gift ni Presidente Marcos sa mga Ilonggo.
Programa sang DSWD nga AICS, magapadayon na sa paghatag liwat sang serbisyo sa kapin 3.9 milyon ka benepisyaryo sini
Magapadayon na sa paghatag liwat sang serbissyo ang programa sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) nga Assistance to Individuals in Crisis Situation (AICS) program sa kapin 3.9 milyon ka benepisyaryo sini.
Ini matapos ang gin-defund nga Ayuda sa Kapos ang Kita Program (AKAP) sang gobyerno.
Ang ahensya may naalokar nga P63.8 bilyon nga budget sa AICS para sa tuig 2026.
Suno kay Edwin Morata, direktor sang DSWD Crisis Intervention Program (CIP), maka-igo ang pondo para maserbisyuhan ang mga anay AKAP beneficiaries.
Ginpahayag niya nga ang 3.9 milyon ka mga benepisyaryo parte sa gihapon sang AICS subong nga tuig nga kadam-an ang nagapangatubang sang krisis.
Ang AKAP nagbulig man sa kapin 3.9 milyon ka Pilipino sang tuig 2025 nga may P24 bilyon nga ayuda para sa medikal kag burial assistance, transportasyon, kag pagkaon.
Ginasiguro sang DSWD nga wala sang politikal nga impluwensya sa pag-isyu sang guarantee letters para sa mga benepisyaryo sang nasambit nga programa sang gobyerno.
Bag-o nga Ethics Complaint batok kay Rep.
Kiko Barzaga, pwede mangin rason nga mapalawig ang suspension sini sa Kamara
Posible pa nga ma-extend ang suspensyon nga ginaatubang ni Cavite 4th District Rep.
Ini matapos magpasaka sang bag-o nga ethics complaint ang House of Representatives batok sa iya.
Jude Acidre, ginakonsiderar na sang Kamara ang pagsumiter sang bag-o nga ethics complaint batok kay Barzaga tungod man sa iya mga ginbuhat pagkatapos nga mapatuman ang iya suspensyon sang Disyembre.
Madumduman nga ang una nga complaint batok kay Barzaga ginpasaka sang nagligad nga tuig tungod sa iya nga “disorderly behavior” kaangot sa iya mga social media posts.
Manuel Bonoan, ginalauman nga magtambong sa pagpadayon sang flood control probe sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee subong nga adlaw
Ginalauman nga magatambong si anay Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Secretary Manuel Bonoan sa pagpadayon sang flood control probe sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee subong nga adlaw sang Lunes.
Si Bonoan ang nagbalik sa Pilipinas kahapon nga adlaw.
Isa si Bonoan sa masobra dose ka mga tawo nga ginapanawagan sang komite kag mahimo ini ma-cite in contempt kun indi siya magtambong sa hearing.
Tutokan man sang Blue Ribbon Committee ang ginatawag nga “Cabral Files” nga ginbilin sang anay DPWH Undersecretary nga si Maria Catalina Cabral.
Suno kay Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson, mahimo nga ang Cabral files mangin lead para sa dugang pa gid nga imbestigasyon sa anomaliya nga flood control projects.
Samtang, ginapanawagan man sang Senado sanday anay Ako Bicol Rep.
Zaldy Co kag ang security aide sini nga si Orly Guteza nga ginapatihan nagadala sang mga kickback sa mga propidad nga ginapanag-iyahan ni Co kag sang anay House Speaker nga si Martin Romualdez.
Samtang, sa pihak nga bahin wala naman ginsabat ni Senado Imee Marcos kun magatambong siya sa hearing sang Senate Blue Ribbon Committee subong nga adlaw.
Ini bangud man sa tunga sang pagbayluhanay nila sang malain nga tinaga ni Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo Lacson nga amo ang chair sang komite.
Ginaakusahan ni Marcos si Lacson nga ginapunggan sini ang minority senators sa pagtum-ok kay anay House Speaker Martin Romualdez sa pagkadalahig sini sa anomalya sa flood control funds.
Ombudsman, nag-file sang kaso nga malversation kag graft batok sa anay senador nga si Bong Revilla
Ginpasakaan sang Office of the Ombudsman sang kaso nga graft kag malversation sanday anay Senador Bong Revilla kag anom ka iban pa.
Ini may kaangtanan sa P92.8 million nga flood control projects sa Pandi, Bulacan nga wala gid napatukod.
Suno kay Assistant Ombudsman Mico Clavano, nasaad sa kaso nga naghimbunanay sanday Revilla kag iban pa agud ma-release ang P76 million para sa construction sang proyekto sa Bonsuran, Pandi, Bulacan, apang wala gid ini natukod.
Ginsiling pa nga apisar wala sang actual nga construction, gindeklarar nanday Revilla nga nakompleto ang proyekto.
Ini nga kaso-kriminal amo ang ikaduha nga hugnat sang flood control-related criminal cases nga gin-file sang Ombudsman prosecutors sa Sandiganbayan.
Matandaan nga sang Disyembre 2025, may ginpasaka man nga malversation kag graft charges batok kanday former Ako Bicol party-list Rep.
Zaldy Co kag 16 ka iban pa bangud sang P289 million substandard road dike project sa Oriental Mindoro.
CIDG, nagbukas sang hotline agud magbaton sang tawag ukon impormasyon nga makatudlo sa negosyante nga si Atong Ang
Nagbukas ang Criminal Investigation and Detection Group ukon CIDG sang hotline agud magbaton sang tawag ukon impormasyon nga makatudlo sa negosyante nga si Atong Ang.
Kasunod ini sang P10 Million nga reward nga gintanyag sang Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) sa sin-o man nga makatudlo sa amo nga wanted person.
Ginpaguwa man ang wanted poster nga nagaunod sang pangalan kag laragway ni Ang.
Sa 18 ka mga persona nga gindagdagan sang arrest warrant sang korte kaangot sa kaso sang ginpang-kidnap kag ginpangpatay nga sabungeros, isahanon na lamang si Ang nga nagapabilin nga at large.
Samtang, nagpaandam naman si Acting Philippine National Police chief PLt.
sa publiko batok sa nagapalapta sang sala nga impormasyon kaangot sa posible nga ginahamtangan ni Ang nga pwede makapatalang sa nagapadayon nga operasyon.
Ginpaandaman man sini ang security agency nga indi maghatag sang anuman nga bulig sa negosyante dala na diri ang mga bodyguard ukon security escort.
Ginapahayag nga ginkadtuan naman sang CIDG ang kilala nga propyedad ni Ang sa Pasig City, Mandaluyong, Laguna, kag Batangas apang wala nila makit-an ang presensya ni Ang sa amo nga mga lugar.
Ombudsman, nag-file sang kaso nga malversation kag graft vs Bong Revilla
Suno kay Assistant Ombudmsan Mico Clavano, nasaad sa kaso nga naghimbunanay sanday Revilla kag iban pa agud ma-release ang P76 million para sa construction sang proyekto sa Bonsuran, Pandi, Bulacan, apang wala gid ini natukod.
Ginpasakaan sang kaso nga libel ni Batangas Rep.
Claire Castro bangud sa nangin komento sini tuhoy sa solar firm sang mamalidha.
Nag-file si Leviste sang 22-page libel complaint batok kay Castro sa Balayan Regional Trial Court sa Batangas, subong nga adlaw, Enero 16.
Suno kay Leviste, nagsuprir ini sang anxiety, indi ini makatulog sa gab-i, kag nadulaan sang gana sa pagkaon bangud sa ginbuy-an nga mga tinaga ni Castro batok sa iya.
Gin-alegar ni Leviste nga nagbuya si Castro sang defamatory remarks sang ginsiling sini nga ginbaligya sang mamalidha ang isa ka kompaniya nga may yara sang legislative franchise.
P110 million in damages kag P1 million in legal fees ang ginasukot ni Leviste kay Castro.
Sa iya complaint, gin-athag ni Leviste nga ang social enterprise nga Solar Para Sa Bayan Corp.
(SPBC), nga nagbaton sang 25-year franchise agud magtukod kag mag-operate sang microgrids sa bilog nga pungsod sang 2019, ang wala ginbaligya kag lain nga firm ang ginbaligya sa Meralco PowerGen Corp (MGEN).
(SPNEC), amo ang ginbaligya sini ang kalabanan sang iya shares sa MGEN.
Sang October 2025, iya gin-divest ang malapit P13.8 billion nga shares sa isa ka deal sa subsidiary sang Meralco.
Partikular nga ginreklamo ni Leviste ang YouTube videos ni Castro kun sa diin ginkwestyon sini ang operasyon sang solar firms sang mamalidha.
Ginsiling ni Leviste nga ginahigkuan ni Castro ang iya reputasyon kag ginaguba ang iya kredibilidad.
Nagbalos naman si Castro paagi sa pagsiling nga ang civil libel complaint nagatuyo nga pahipuson siya sa pagkwestyon sang mga motibo sang mamalidha.
Isa pa ka arrest warrant batok kay Atong Ang, gin-isyu sang korte
Nag-isyu sang isa pa ka warrant of arrest nbatok kay Atong Ang kag sa iban pa nga akusado angot sa pila ka kaso sang kidnapping with homicide may kaangtanan sa missing sabungeros.
Ang nag-isyu sang bag-o nga arrest warrant amo ang Lipa Regional Trial Court Branch 13.
Una na nag-isyu ang Laguna court sang arrest warrants batok kay Ang kag iban pa nga mga akusado.
Ginsuguran sang Philippine National Police ang pagserbe sang warrant sang Miyerkules apang wala gid nadakpan si Ang.
Patay sa landslide sa Binaliw landfill sa Cebu City, 26 na
Naglab-ot na sa 26 ang mga napatay sa landslide sa Binaliw Landfill sa Cebu City.
Ini matapos narekober ang anom pa ka mga biktima nga natampukan sang bukid sang basura.
Sa subong, mas mangin mahalong ang retrieval operation bangud sa pag-ulan nga possible magtuga pa gid sang pagkatiphag sang landfill.
Bonoan, naghingyo sang extension sa US kag wala nagapanago – envoy
Suno kay Romualdez, naghingyo lang sang isa ka bulan nga extension si Bonoan antes magbalik sa pungsod.
Pahayag ni Romualdez, nakasugilanon niya si Bonoan sa telepono kag ginpaathag sang anay tiglikom nga na-reschedule ang operasyon sang iya nga asawa gani magatinir anay siya sa California.
Sa Pebrero 15 natalana nga magbalik si Bonoan sa Pilipinas matapos ang amo nga operasyon.
Romualdez nga atubangon ang mga isyu nga ginapangatubang sa Pilipinas.
Ginakonsiderar bilang “no.1 most wanted” sa Pilipinas ang negosyante nga si Atong Ang.
Pahayag sang tiglikom, akusado si Ang sa pagpatay sa masobra 100 ka missing nga sabungeros kag makabig ini nga “armed and dangerous.”
“Kasama po si Atong Ang siguro maituturing natin na number one most wanted sa buong Pilipinas ngayon.
Pahayag pa sini, sandig sa intelligence reports, nagabyahe si Ang nga may (at least) 20 ka mga bodyguard apisar nga ginkanselar na ang lisensya sang iya armas.
“Si Atong po ay bumibiyahe nang hindi kumukulang ng 20 ang bodyguard lagi.
Sanay po ‘yan sa marahas na pagharap sa mga awtoridad.
Sanay po ‘yan sa marahas na paraan para masolusyonan ang kanyang mga problema,” dugang pa niya.
Bangud sini suno sa DILG chief, himuon sang law enforcers ang tanan nga legal nga pamaagi agud nga maaresto ang nasambit nga negosyante.
Pahayag sini, 320,000 ka mga myembro sang PNP ang magapangita sa bilog nga Pilipinas.
Ginpasalig man sini nga wala sang matabo nga extrajudicial killings.
“Ang buong 320,000 members ng PNP ay hahanapin siya sa buong Pilipinas.
At lahat ng paraan na kailangan gawin para kunin siya ay gagawin namin.
Pero, may garantiya kami na walang EJK,” suno sa iya.
“Mag-iingat lang ang ating mga kawal na hindi sila masaktan sa pagkuha kay Atong Ang.”
Nagtanyag man ang ahensya sang P10-million nga padya para nga madakpan si Ang.
Ini nga kuwarta magahalin sa intelligence fund sang ahensya kag ihatag sa “no questions asked” basis.
“Basta ikaw ‘yung nagbigay ng impormasyon leading directly to the arrest ay P10 milyon ang reward para sa kanya,” suno sa tiglikom.
Dugang niya: “Nandito pa siya [sa Pilipinas] kasi noong sabi nga ng abogado noong the day before ay kasama niya pa.
Pumipirma ng mga papel bago lumabas ‘yung mga warrant of arrest a few hours later.
So ang tracking namin nandito pa rin siya.”
Lakip si Ang sa 18 ka mga tawo nga gindagdagan sang warrant of arrest nga may koneksyon sa pagkadula sang mga manugbulang.
Nagapangatubang siya sang 15 counts sang kidnapping kag serious illegal detention kag four counts sang kidnapping with homicide.
Yara na sa kustodiya sang kapulisan ang 17 ka iban pa nga akusado.
BSP, kumpyansa nga indi pa kinahanglan ang intervention sa pagluya sang balor sang peso vs US dollar —Malacañang
Ginpasalig sang Malacañang nga padayon ang monitoring sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) sa peso-US dollar exchange.
Ini sa tunga sang sunod-sunod nga inadlaw nga mas nagaluya ang balor sang Philippine Peso kontra sa US dollar.
Sa pagtakop sang trading kahapon, Enero 15, nagsarurot ini sa P59.46 nga amo na subong ang lowest level — mas manubo pa sang dos sentimos sa nauna nga historic low nga P59.44 sang Myerkules.
“Ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas ay patuloy na binabantayan ang lagay ng palitan ng peso kontra dolyar upang makakilos ito nang tama kung kinakailangan.
Sa ngayon, kampante ang ating Central Bank na hindi pa sila dapat magkaroon ng intervention,” suno kay Castro sa press briefing.
Sa pihak sini nga kumpyansa, ginpatpat sang Palace official ang mga tikang sang gobyerno kaangay sang pagsiguro sang paghinay sang pagsaka sang presyo sang mga balaklon, pagsuporta sa investments, kag ang pagpabaskog sang mga sektor sang ekonomiya.
Ginpangmensyonar man sini ang nagapaluya sang balor sang peso nga amo ang global geopolitical tensions kaangay sang away sang US kag Venezuela kag ang mga espekulasyon sa manubo nga interest rate sang US Federal Reserve.
Ginhinambit man ang imbestigasyon sa mga anomaliya sa flood control projects nga isa sa naga-contribute sa mga rason.
“At tandaan natin na nabanggit din po na isa sa mga naging reason dito ay ang patuloy na pagpapaimbestiga ng mga maanomalyang flood control projects.
Nakakaapekto po ito at daraanan po talaga ang sitwasyon na ito,” suno sa iya.
“Bagama’t ganiyan ang magiging consequence, minabuti pa rin po ng Pangulo na linisin po ang gobyerno laban sa maanomalyang flood control projects, laban sa mapang-abusong paggamit ng pondo ng bayan.
At kung hindi po gagawin ‘to ng Pangulo, hindi po siguro masisimulan ng iba,” dugang ni Castro.
“Ang nais po ng Pangulo ay maging transparent at maipakita sa taumbayan na ginagawa ng gobyerno ang paglilinis ng pamahalaan laban sa korapsiyon.”
Ini ang una nga tion nga nag-atubangay sila halin sang ginpangunahan ni Torre ang pagdakop kay Quiboloy sadtong 2024.
Nagtabuay liwat ang ila banas sa Pasig Regional Trial Court (RTC) samtang nagapadayon ang hearing sa kaso sang televangelist nga qualified human trafficking.
Nagtambong si Torre bilang ikatatlo nga witness sang prosecution sa trial.
Nagsentro ang presentasyon sang prosecution sa kumpirmasyon nga gin-aresto si Quiboloy kag wala ini boluntaryo nga nagsungka.
Ginalauman nga magakit-anay pa gid sila liwat sa korte subong nga Byernes agud padayunon ang cross-examination kay Torre.
Matandaan nga Septyembre 2024 sang nadakpan si Quiboloy sa compound sang Kingdom of Jesus Christ sa Davao City matapos ang 16 ka adlaw nga operasyon sang kapulisan.
Nanguna si Torre sa amo nga “Operation Plan Teknon Alpha”, bangud sang amo nga tion, siya ang director sang Police Regional Office XI.
4,500 ka tropa sang kapulisan ang involved sa amo nga operasyon.
Nagpungko man siya bilang Philippine National Police (PNP) chief, apang gin-relieve, kag subong siya ang nagaserbe bilang Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) General Manager.#
Chinese nationals, pasugtan nga makatinir sa Pilipinas sa sulod sang duha ka semana bisan wala sang visa
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) nga pahanugutan ang Chinese nationals nga makasulod sa Pilipinas bisan nga wala sang visa kag mahimo pa makatinir sa sulod sang 14 ka adlaw.
Epektibo ini nga visa-free arrangement umpisa buwas, Enero 16.
Suno sa DFA, ini nga tikang ang santo sa direktiba ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga i-facilitate ang trade, investments, kag turismo, kag pabaskugon ang “people-to-people exchanges” sa tunga sang Pilipinas kag China.
Pahayag pa sang ahensya, ang mahimo maka-avail sini nga pribilehiyo amo lamang ang Chinese nationals nga magasulod sa Pilipinas para sa negosyo kag turismo.
Ginklaro man sang ahensya nga mangin valid lamang ang pagsulod sa Pilipinas kun makaagi sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport sa Metro Manila ukon sa Mactan-Cebu International Airport sa Cebu.
Kinahanglan man nga magpresentar ang Chinese nationals sang passport nga valid sa sulod sang (at least) anum ka bulan, confirmed hotel accommodation/booking, kag return ukon onward ticket sa masunod nga pungsod nga kadtuan.
Mangin epektibo ini nga visa-free arrangement sa sulod sang isa ka tuig, kag igarepaso antes ang expiration sini sa 2027.
Ang China amo ang latest nga pungsod nga ginhatagan sang amo sini nga visa-free entry privilege sa Pilipinas.
Matandaan nga ginpasugtan man anay ang Indian nationals nga makasulod sa pungsod sa sulod sang 14 ukon 30 ka adlaw nga wala sang visa.#
P10-M reward, posible itanyag para sa madasig nga pag-aresto kay Atong Ang
Ginakonsiderar sang Department of the Interior and Local Government nga magtanyag sang P10-million nga reward para sa impormasyon nga magaresulta sa pag-aresto kay Atong Ang.
Si Ang nagapangatubang sang arrest warrants may kaangtanan sa kaso sang missing sabungeros.
Suno kay DILG Secretary Jonvic Remulla, ini agud ma-pressure si Ang nga magsungka sa otoridad.
Ginpahayag ni Remulla, nga yari pa sa Pilipinas si Ang base sa monitoring sang ahensya.
Nagasentro naman ang otoridad sa area sang Luzon.
Para kay Remulla, si Ang ang ginakabig nga “armed and dangerous” bangud sa involvement sini sa pagpatay sa masobra 100 ka tawo kag ang pag-angkon sini sang madamo nga bodyguards.
Ginsiling naman ni Remulla nga handa ang otoridad kun magbato si Ang kun arestuhon ini.
Sa subong, hugot ang monitoring sang Philippine National Police sa mga airports kag seaports sa bilog nga pungsod agud mapunggan ang possible pagpalagyo sini pagwa sang Pilipinas.
ang hugot nga koordinasyon sa immigration authorities bilang kabahin sang manhunt batok kay Ang.
Si Ang ang nalakip sa 18 ka akusado nga may arrest warrant naangot sa missing sabungeros.
Nagapangatubang ini sang 15 counts of kidnapping kag serious illegal detention kag four counts sang kidnapping with homicide.
Ang 17 ka mga akusado ang yara na subong sa kustodiya sang mga pulis.
Lacson gintawag nga nagapanggamo kag indi makabulig ang mga akusasyon ni Sen.
Gintawag ni Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo “Ping” Lacson nga indi makabulig kag nagapanggamo lamang ang gina-obra nga pag-akusar ni Sen.
Ini kaangot sa ginapasuni nga pagbawal sini nga magpagwa sang sentimento kaangot sa pag-imbestigar kay anay House Speaker Martin Romualdez.
Suno kay Lacson, mas maayo nga magtambong si Marcos sa hearing kag ipresentar sini ang anuman nga ebidensya nga may ara ini para maduso ang pakaisa sini nga si Romualdez.
Dugang pa ni Lacson nga wala sang magapugong kay Marcos kag wala man sang magapauntat sa senadora.
Bonoan, nagsumiter sang sala nga mga coordinates sa mga flood control projects suno kay Senate Pres.
Ginsingganan ni Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo “Ping” Lacson nga nagsumiter sang sala nga coordinates si anay Public Works Secretary Manuel Bonoan sa mga flood control projects sa Malacañang.
Lacson nga ini agud pasalahon ang mga naga-imbestigar sa nasambit nga imbestigasyon.
Ginpahayag man sang Blue Ribbon Committee Chair nga resulta ini sang indi insakto nga datos nahanungod sa 421 ka mga ghost flood control projects.
Dugang pa ni Lacson magapaguwa sang subpoena ang Blue Ribbon Committee sa lunes agud piliton si Bonoan nga magtambong sa hearing.
Kun indi magtambong si Bonoan pwede ini nga ma-cite in contempt kag magapahimo sila sang arrest warrant sa Senado.
Upod man sa agenda sang komite ang pagbusisi sang pila ka mga dokumento sang DPWH, kabahin na ang Cabral files kag ang alegasyon nga gingamit ni anay House Speaker Martin Romualdez ang Dioscayas bilang front sa pagbakal sang balay sa isa ka mahal nga subdivision sa Makati
Pamilya sang mga nadula nga mga sabungero, ginkalipay ang pagpagwa sang warrant of arrest batok kay Charlie ”Atong” Ang
Ginkalipay sang pamilya sang mga nadula nga mga sabungero ang pagdagdag sang warrant of arrest batok kay Charlie ”Atong” Ang nga gintawag sang mga ini nga importante nga tikang padulong sa ginalauman nila nga hustisya.
Suno pa sa ila nga ang warrant ang isa sa pinakadako nga development matapos ang pila ka tuig nga wala sang kasiguraduhan sa pagkadula sang 30 ka mga sabungero halin 2021 tubtob 2022.
Ginpahayag man sang mga ini ang testimoniya sang whistleblower nga si Julie ”Dondon” Patidongan kag ang duwa pa sini ka mga utod ang nakabulig agud nga maklaruhan sila sa natabo.
Samtang, ginakonsiderar naman ni Patidongan ang warrant batok kay Ang kag pila ka mga myembro sang Philippine National Police bilang tanda sang naga-amat amat hulag nga hustisya.
Nagpasalamat man ang mga ini sa Diyos kag kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Nagapadayon subong ang pagpangita pa sang dugang nga ebisensya para malakip sa kaso kag iban pa nga naangot dala na ang pila ka mayors kag isa ka anay aktres.
Nagalaom man ang pamilya nga mapatuman ang warrant sang maayo kag wala sang may ginapaburan.
Nagapanawagan man ini sa mga awtoridad nga panindugan ang ila nga responsibilidad batok sa kahadlok kag impluwensiya sang mga tawo nga naangot sa kaso .
Mga kapulisan, naka-experiensya sang pagka-delay sa pagserbe sang warrant of arrest batok kay Atong Ang
Naka-experiensya sang pagkadelay ang mga kapulisan sang pagserbe sang warrant of arrest batok sa negosyante nga si Charlie ”Atong” Ang sa iya balay sa Pasig City.
Nagtaas naman ang tensyon sang mga personnel sang Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) matapos wala gilayon ginpahanugutan nga makasulod sa balay sini apisar napresentar na ang warrant of arrest.
Nahibaluan nga nagpaguwa sang warrant of arrest ang regional trial court sa Sta.
Cruz, Laguna batok kay Ang kag sa 17 pa ka iban nga naangot sa kaso nga kidnapping with homicide kahapon nga adlaw, Enero 13.
Ang kaso nga ini indi pwede nga mapyansahan sa idalom sang layi sang Pilipinas.
Samtang, nagbutang naman sang hagdan ang mga awtoridad sa atubangan sang gate sang balay ni Ang apang nagapabilin ini sa gihapon nga nakasara ang gate sini.
Nag-abot naman ang abogado ni Ang kag nagpangabay sa mga awtoridad nga siya anay ang magasulod sa balay sini antes sila magsulod.
Ginpangayo naman sang abogado ang mga pangalan sang mga awtoridad nga nagsulod lakip na diri ang apat ka mga pulis kag isa ka opisyal sang barangay.
Matapos ang malapit isa ka oras nga hulat kag pagbantay wala nila makit-an si Ang.
Sa pihak nga bahin ginbaton naman sang abogado ni Ang ang warrant of arrest batok sa negosyante.
Suno pa sa mga awtoridad nga kun indi man nila makit-an si Ang ila man tingwaan nga lantawon kun nagwa ini sa pungsod.
Suno sa PRC, napamatud-an si Alcantara nga guilty sa gross unprofessional kag unethical conduct bangud sa iya self-confessed involvement sa mga ghost kag substandard flood control projects sa Bulacan.
DILG, wala pa impormasyon sa pagbalik sa pungsod ni Bonoan
Wala pa sang nabaton nga ano man nga impormasyon ang Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) kaangot sa pagpauli sa Pilipinas ni anay Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Secretary Manuel Bonoan.
Si Bonoan ang naggwa sa Pilipinas sa tunga sang imbestigasyon sa maanomaliya nga flood control projects.
Jonvic Remulla, wala sila sang komunikasyon sang anay tiglikom.
Suno sa iya, nagapadayon ang imbestigasyon kaangot sa mga iregularidad sa flood control projects kag wala sang sin-o man ang exempted diri.
Bato, posible nagapanago sa Davao – DILG Chief
Posible nga sa Davao nagapanago si Senator Ronald “Bato” dela Rosa, suno kay DILG Secretary Jonvic Remulla.
Sa tunga ini sang indi gihapon pagpakita sa publiko ni Dela Rosa kag pag-absent sa mga sesyon sa Senado kasunod ng mga report nga may arrest warrant batok sa iya gikan sa International Criminal Court (ICC).
Apang ginsiling ni Remulla nga indi pa makahimo sang tikang ang DILG bangud wala pa ini sang nabaton nga pormal nga kopya sang arrest order.
Ginsiling man ni Remulla nga wala man nakapauli ang Senador sa iya nga balay sa Cavite kun sa diin magkaingod-balay lang sila.
Nauna naman nga nanindugan ang abogado ni Dela Rosa nga si Atty.
Israelito Torreon nga wala sang legal nga basehan ang gobyerno para isungka ang sin-o man nga pumuluyo sini sa ICC bangud wala sang rules para mapatuman ang proseso bangud nga nagsipak na ang pungsod gikan sa Rome Statute sang panahon sadto sang administrasyon ni Duterte.
Claire Castro, gin-report sa NBI ang ginaalegar nga pamahog sa iya nga kabuhi
Nag-report si Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro sa National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) kaangot sa ginaalegar sini nga pamahog sa iya kabuhi.
Gintumod ni Castro ang post sang Facebook page nga “Luminous by Trixie Cruz-Angeles and Amet Paglinawan” sadtong Enero 2.
Ang porsyon sang amo nga post nagasiling nga kun idagdag si Castro sang iya nga mga kaalyado, appendix kag coccyx na lang niya ang wala sang lagob.
Ginpahayag man sini nga paminsaran niya anay kun mapasaka siya sang kaso.
Gin-ako niya nga nakulbaan siya, bangud wala siya naanad nga makabaton sang kaangay sini nga pamahog.
“Hindi kinakailangan na kung ikaw man ay nag-ooppose sa sinabi ng isang tao, ikaw ay magbabanta na sa buhay niya.
Hindi po nadadaan ang anumang diskurso sa pagbabanta sa buhay, ‘yung pagiging bayolente.
‘Wag nilang gayahin ang mga idolo nila,” pahayag pa sini.
Gilayon naman nagsabat sanday Cruz-Angeles kag si Paglinawan nga ang pag-report ni Castro sa NBI ang nagapakita lang sang iya tuyo nga pahipuson ang mga tawo nga nagagamit lang sang ila nga kahilwayan sa paghambal.
Suno sa duha ka abogado, kadamo man sang iban nga posts kaangot kay Castro, apang wala man ini sang bisan isa nga may gin-report sang una sa NBI.
Si Cruz-Angeles ang kabahin anay sang Presidential Communications Operations Office sang Duterte administration, kag nangin Press Secretary man sang Marcos administration apang nag-resign matapos ang halos apat ka bulan nga serbisyo.#
ICI, ipaiway anay ang referrals sa Ombudsman bangud kulang sa commissioners
Indi anay makapatigayon sang referrals ang Independent Commission for Infrastructure (ICI) kaangot sa imbestigasyon sini sa flood control corruption bangud nga kulang sila sa mga komisyoner.
Suno kay ICI special adviser Rodolfo Azurin Jr., himuon lang anay nila ang ila nga trabaho subong, agud nga kun may mag-abot nga bag-o nga komisyoner, handa na sila para maka-refer sang bag-o nga mga impormasyon sa Ombudsman.
Nahibaluan nga ang nabilin na lamang nga commissioner amo si ICI chairperson Andres Reyes Jr.
kasunod sang resignation nanday Rogelio Babes Singson kag Rossana Fajardo.
Disyembre 2025 sang nagpanaog si Singson bangud sa iya ikaayong lawas kag seguridad, samtang nagdepensa naman si Fajardo nga natapos na niya ang trabaho santo sa iya mandato.
Una naman nga nagpahayag ang Malacañang nga luyag ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
nga padayunon sang ICI ang ila nga imbestigasyon kag trabaho apisar sang sunod-sunod nga resignations.
DILG, nagrekomendar nga i-dismiss ang 20 BFP officials bangud sa kurapsyon
Suno kay Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla, masobra sa P15-billion ang ginakolekta sang BFP kada tuig bangud sang sini nga sahi sang pagpanguwarta.
Ginapreparar man ang kaso batok sa amo nga opisyal, kag natalana nga ipasaka sa masunod nga semana.
Suno kay Remulla, ang presidente lamang ang sarang nga makakakas sa BFP chief, apang naghatag na siya sang iya nga rekomendasyon, kag nalakip sa ginrekomendar nga kakason amo mismo si BFP director Jesus Fernandez.
Ginhalimbawa ni Remulla ang insidente sang Disyembre kun sa diin gin-alegar nga nagpangayo ang close aide sang fire chief sang P1.5-million kada fire truck bilang kickback.
Ginapilit man sang BFP inspectors ang business owners nga magbakal sang safety equipment halin sa ila ginpangpili nga suppliers.
Nagapanglakaak ang presyo sang ila suppliers, apang nagapamahog ang BFP nga indi mag-release sang permit kun indi mag-comply ang mga tag-iya sang mga negosyo.#
Pilipinas kag UAE, nagpirma na sang labing-una nga free trade agreement
Pirmado na sang Pilipinas kag United Arab Emirates (UAE) ang labing-una nga free trade agreement sa tunga sang duha ka pungsod.
Tuyo sang Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) nga mabuhinan ang taripa, mapasangkad ang market access para sa mga produkto kag serbisyo, madugangan ang pagsulod sang investments, kag makahatag sang dugang nga oportunidad para sa mga Pilipino sa UAE.
kag UAE President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan ang pagpirma sang amo nga kasugtanan kadungan sang Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week.
Ang CEPA amo ang una nga free trade agreement sang Pilipinas sa isa ka pungsod nga yara sa Middle East.
Sandig sa inisyal nga mga pagtuon, paagi sa CEPA, mapataas ang exports sang Pilipinas sa UAE sang 9.13%.
Lakip sa export products nga ginalantaw nga magabenepisyo diri amo ang pinya, saging, canned tuna, electronics, machinery, kag iban pa nga high-demand products.
Remulla: Mga ‘epal’ nga pulitiko, mahimo i-suspend ukon pasakaan sang administrative cases
Nagpaandam si Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla nga mahimo i-suspend ukon mapasakaan sang kaso-administratibo ang mga pulitiko nga padayon nga magagamit sang programa sang gobyerno para sa ila nga personal nga interes.
Suno sa tiglikom, kabahin ini sang implementasyon sang “anti-epal” provision sa General Appropriations Act (GAA).
Nagapati man si Remulla nga tion na nga magbalay sang layi nga makahatag sang ngipon sa “anti-epal” campaign.
Nagpanawagan man ang DILG nga magkuha sang picture ukon videos, kag mag-report gilayon kun may mga pulitiko nga nagapa-epal.
Ginalantaw man subong sang ahensya ang pagtukod sang portal nga kaangay sa Sumbong sa Pangulo website agud mas madasig nga makapanugid ang publiko.
Sa bahin sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), una naman nagpasalig ang ahensya nga mangin istrikto sila sa pagdumili sa mga pulitiko sa pagpartisipar sa pagpanagtag sang ayuda nga iya sang gobyerno.
Indi man pagpakadtuon ang DSWD social workers sa distribution sites kun didto ang mga pulitiko.#
Pink?’ Imee Marcos, ginpaagi sa parody sang game show ang pagpabati-bati
Gina-istoryahan subong ang bag-o nga video ni Senator Imee Marcos nga parody sang game show nga “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?”
3, ginpamangkot sang “host” si Imee kun ano ang tawag sa pulitiko nga masami nagalain-lain sang duag kag political stance.
Una nga nagsabat ang senadora sang “political butterfly”, apang sala ini suno sa “host.” Sa iya script, nagpakuno-kuno naman ang senadora nga wala nakabati kag ginmensyonar ang “Ping”, apang ginklaro man sang “host” nga “Pink” ang sabat.
Wala sang ginhambal nga pangalan, pero antes sini nga parody, may tension sa tunga ni Imee kag Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo “Ping” Lacson kaangot sa 2026 national budget.
Ginsabat ni Lacson si Imee sang damlag lang nga nagahimo ini sang mga wala-basehan nga istorya kaangot sa 2026 budget kag sa Senate blue ribbon committee.
Ginbulgar man ni Lacson nga may “pork barrel” si Imee
Nag-react man anay si Lacson sa mga tirada ni Imee sa Senate Blue Ribbon Committee.
Para sa iya, indi na ini kritisismo kundi insulto.
Ang “Meow Meow” sa Kamara amo si suspended Cavite Rep.
Kiko Barzaga nga kilala sa iya “meow meow” antics sa House sessions.
Recto, ginklaro nga wala sang ginaplano nga balasahay sa Marcos Cabinet
Ginpanginwala ni Executive Secretary Ralph Recto nga may natalana nga balasahay sang posisyon sa Gabinete sang Marcos Jr.
Suno kay Recto, wala sang anuman nga “constructive purpose” para sa gobyerno kag para sa mga Pilipino ang anuman nga espekulasyon subong natuhoy sa ginaalegar nga revamp.
Pahayag pa ni Recto, ang tanan nga appointees sang administrasyon ang nagaserbe sunod sa mandu sang presidente.
Ang ila performance suno sa iya ang subject sa tayuyon nga pag-review sang Office of the President.
Matandaan nga nagmandu anay si Marcos sang courtesy resignations sang Cabinet secretaries sang Mayo 2025 agud nga ma-recalibrate ang iya administrasyon kasunod sang midterm elections.
Dizon, magapungko bilang testigo sa trial sa kaso ni Zaldy Co sa Sandiganbayan
Ginkumpirma ni Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) Secretary Vince Dizon nga magapungko ini bilang testigo sa trial sang kaso batok kay former Ako Bicol Party-list Representative Zaldy Co sa Sandiganbayan.
“On January 20, ako’y magtetestigo sa Sandiganbayan sa trial ni former Congressman Zaldy Co.
We will give you updates doon sa aking sworn testimony sa kasong ‘yan,” suno kay Dizon.
Pahayag sang tiglikom, magasunod-sunod ang iya pag-testify sa korte samtang padayon ang proseso sang pagpanabat sa mga tawo nga dapat manabat.
“At siyempre dahil ako ang complainant sa marami sa mga kasong ito, makikita niyo akong magtetestigo sa maraming mga kaso sa mga susunod na linggo, susunod na buwang patuloy nitong proseso nating pananagot ng mga dapat managot,” pahayag sini.
Matandaan nga may arrest warrants na nga ginpaguwa batok kay Co kag sa iban pa nga mga opisyal sang DPWH kag Sunwest Corporation bangud sa anomaliya sa flood control programs.
Sang Nobyembre 18, nagpasaka ang Ombudsman sa Sandiganbayan sang kaso nga corruption and malversation of public funds batok kay Co kag sa iban pa.
Nakahingyo naman ang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) sa International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol) nga magpaguwa sang red notice batok kay Co.
sa United Arab Emirates para magtambong sa Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week kag agud magpirma sang importante nga mga kasugtanan.
Ginalauman suno sa Palasyo nga mapirmahan sang Pilipinas kag UAE ang pila ka mga importante nga kasugtanan lakip na ang Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA).
Paagi sa CEPA, mahimo mapasangkad ang kooperasyon sang duha ka pungsod sa trade, serbisyo, kag investments.
Mahimo man sini mahatagan sang dugang nga access ang Pilipinas sa Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) market nga nagalakip sang Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, kag Saudi Arabia.
Kumpyansa man si Marcos nga sa iya pagbalik, dala niya ang mayo nga balita para sa benepisyo sang mga Pilipino diri sa Pilipinas, kag sang 900,000 na mga Pinoy nga yara sa amo nga Gulf country.
Magluwas sa CEPA, pirmahan man ang Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Defense Cooperation sa tunga sang Manila kag Abu Dhabi.
Amo ini ang magapabaskog sang defense cooperation sa tunga sang duha ka pungsod lakip na ang joint training, exchange of officers, kag information sharing.
Suno kay Philippine Ambassador to the UAE Alfonso Ver, may yara sang highly developed defense capabilities ang UAE nga mahimo mabenepisyuhan sang Pilipinas.
Namensyonar man nga lantawon man sang duha ka pungsod ang kooperasyon sa patag sang artificial intelligence, renewable energy, kag digital economy.
Ang byahe sang presidente sa Middle East ang kasunod mismo sang imbitasyon ni UAE President His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
Gindesignar naman bilang mga caretakers sang gobyerno sanday Executive Secretary Ralph Recto, Agrarian Reform Secretary Conrado Estrella, kag Social Welfare and Development Secretary Rex Gatchalian samtang yara sa luwas sang pungsod ang punong ehekutibo.#
Marcos, preparado kun may mag-file sang impeachment complaint batok sa iya
pananglitan may impeachment complaint nga ipasaka batok sa iya.
Pahayag pa sini, wala sang ginkawat si Marcos sa kaban sang gobyerno.
Ang presidente pa gani mismo suno sa iya ang nag-initiate nga ma-imbestigaran ang anomaliya sa flood control projects kag panglagson ang kurap nga mga indibidwal.
”Pero kung pag-uusapan po natin ay breach of public trust dahil nabanggit ito tungkol sa diumanong pagpirma sa GAA, ang Pangulo po, unang-una, hindi po siya nagnakaw ng pera.
Pangalawa, siya po ang nagpapaimbestiga sa mga maanomalyang flood control projects at maaaring naging sanhi ng korapsiyon.
Pangatlo, wala po siyang ‘Mary Grace Piattos,”’ suno kay Castro.
Ang ‘Mary Grace Piattos’ amo ang pangalan kag pirma nga nagtuhaw sa mga acknowledgement receipts sa confidential funds sang mga opisina ni Vice President Sara Duterte.
Matandaan nga sang Domingo sang ginsapubliko ni Senior House Deputy Minority Leader Rep.
Edgar Erice nga nagaplano ang iban nga mga kongresista nga magpasaka sang impeachment complaint batok kay Marcos bangud sang “betrayal of public trust” kag iban pa nga grounds.
Sandig kay Erice, ang nagabalay sang impeachment complaint amo ang supporters ni Vice President Sara Duterte.
Ginaalegar nga duha ka House members ang maga-endorse sini, samtang nagpamalibad naman si Erice suno sa iya sang ginpalapitan siya agud magtindog bilang ikatatlo nga endorser.#
Bulkang Mayon sa Albay padayon ang pag-alburuto, mga evacuee nagmasakit na bangud sa pagdamo sang mga tawo sa evacuation centers
Sa nagapadayon nga pag-alburuto sang Bulkang Mayon sa Albay madamo sa mga evacuee ang nagamasakit na bangud sa nagapadayon nga pagdamo sang mga tawo sa evacuation centers.
Sa Tobaco City pa lamang, masobra 1,700 ka mga indibidwal ang nagapabilin sa mga evacuation center para sa temporary nga estaran.
Nakaangkon naman ang mga ini sang ubo, sp-on kag iban pa nga sakit bangud man sa ini sa sulod sang tent.
Nagapabilin ang Alert Level 3 sa Mayon bangud sa banta sang pyroclastic density currents, lava flow, kag rockfall.
Hugot nman nga ginabawal ang pagsulod sa 6-kilometro nga Permanent Danger Zone.
Padayon naman nga ginamonitor sang PHIVOLCS ang pagtaas sang asktibidad sang bulkan samtang nagapadayon ang paghalin sang mga residente sa mga apektado nga lugar.
Lacson, ginbuyagyag nga may P2.5 billion ”allocables” nga gina-angot kay Sen.
Ginbuyagyag ni Senator Panfilo Ping Lacson nga may P2.5 billion ”allocables” nga gina-angot kay Sen.
Suno kay Lacson, kaangay sa ginatawag nga Cabral files ang pondo nga ini ginsaylo man sa 2025 General Appropriations Act (GAA) paagi sa mga insertion sa bicameral conference.
Ginpahayag sini nga kabahin sang mga allocables ni Marcos ang for later release (FLR) nga ginapaguwa sini suno sa record sang DPWH.
Ginmuno man ni Lacson ang paghipos ni Marcos sang ginatalakay ang 2026 budget sa bicam sa pihak nga ginabatikos man sang senador ang pork barrel.
Dugang pa ni Lacson, wala sang moral nga batayan si Marcos para maghatag sang kritisismo nahanungod sa budget kun siya mismo ang may pork sa nagligad nga General Appropriations Act (GAA).
Ginbatikos man sini ang pahayag ni Marcos batok sa Blue Ribbon Committee nga iya ginapamunuan kaangot sa flood control proejects.
Gilayon naman nga ginpanginwala ni Senator Marcos ang ini nga mga pahayag ni Lacson.
Samtang, wala naman naghatag sang komento si Lacson sa isyu nga possible paggamit sang pork sa impeachment ni Vice President Sara Duterte bangud posible ini nga magapungko nga mamalidha kun maga-umpisa na ang kaso.
Mga natapos nga farm-to-market roads, yara pa lamang sa 65%
Yara lamang sa 65% sang 4,810 ka farm-to-market roads ukon FMR projects ang natapos halin sang tuig-2021 tubtob 2025.
Francisco Tiu Laurel, Jr., 3,135 ka mga proyekto palang ang nahuman sang Department of Public Works and Highways samtang pila pa ka mga proyekto ang wala pa sagihapon masugudan ukon ginahimo palang tubtob subong.
Ang FMR projects amo ang may ara sang allocated budget nga ₱76.52 bilyon kun sa diin nakahimo na ini sang 2,400 kilometers nga mga dalan nga nangin dako gid ang bulig para sa kapin 721,000 ka mangunguma halin sa nagkalain-lain nga mga komunidad sa bug-os nga pungsod.
Agud nga mas mapatuman ang transparency sa mga farm-to-market road projects, plano nga ilunsyar sang ahensya sa bulan sang Pebrero ang FMR Watch, isa ka online platform para sa real-time nga pagmonitor sang mga proyekto.
Ang ahensya naman sang Department of Agriculture ang magakapot subong sa mga natuhoy nga proyekto bangud sa kontrobersiya angot sa corruption scandal sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH).
Dugang pa sang ahensya nga pagatapuson nila ang nasambit nga proyekto sini nga tuig kun sa diin may ara sang ₱33 bilyon budget para sa farm-to-market roads.
‘Most Corrupt?’ DILG, tututok sa paglilinis ng BFP ngayong taon
Gagawing prayoridad ng Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) ngayong taon ang paglilinis sa Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) na itinuturing bilang isa sa mga pinakatiwaling ahensya ng pamahalaan sa bansa.
Ayon kay Interior Secretary Jonvic Remulla, gagawin nila ang lahat ng pagsisikap upang tuldukan ang korapsyon sa nasabing ahensya.
Binanggit ni Remulla na sa BFP, ang pagbebenta ng mga fire extinguisher, ang procurement ng mga sprinkler, ang pagproseso ng building permit, at marami pang iba ay puno ng mga anomalya.
Ayon sa kalihim, paiigtingin ng interior department ang pagmamanman sa mga tauhan ng bureau ngayong taon.
Nag-produce sila ng 15,000 body camera para sa mga inspector.
Ito ay gagamitin sa loob ng 24 oras at hindi maaaring patayin upang maitala maging ang kanilang mga pag-uusap.
Nauna nang sinabi ng kalihim noong 2025 na malawakan ang korapsyon sa BFP na nagsisimula mula sa mga firemen hanggang sa pinakamataas na opisyal.
Nauna na ring isiniwalat ang anomalya sa recruitment ng mga tauhan ng BFP kung saan naniningil umano ang mga tiwaling indibidwal ng P500,000 sa bawat aplikante kapalit ng pagpasok sa ahensya.
Photojournalist, napatay samtang naga-cover sa Traslacion
Nagtaliwan ang tabloid photojournalist nga si Itoh Son samtang naga-cover sa Traslacion subong nga Byernes, Enero 9.
Sa inisyal nga reports, nagsuprer ini sang heart attack kaina sang aga Quirino Grandstand.
Ginapahayag nga antes ang iya kamatayon, pila ka adlaw na nga na-trangkaso si Son kadungan sang pre-Traslacion events lakip na sa tradisyunal nga Pahalik.
Suno pa sa Manila Police District (MPD), nagbisita ang photojournalist sa MPD Station 5 sang 3 a.m.
para kuhaan kuntani sang laragway ang sitwasyon sa Quirino Grandstand, apang gulpi lang ini nga natumba.
Nagpalab-ot naman ang Presidential Task Force on Media Security sang pagpakig-unong sa pamilya kag mga abyan sang photojournalist.
Robert Arellano nga isa ka casualty sa Traslacion 2026 ang pagtaliwan ni Son.
Suno sa iya, indi Traslacion ang rason sang pagtaliwan sang nasambit nga indibidwal bangud may ginabatyag na ini antes pa man magpartisipar ukon mag-cover sang religious event.
Arellano nga nagapakig-unong ang bilog nga simbahan sang Quiapo sa pamilya sang nagtaliwan nga media personnel.
Halos P4-M nga marijuana products, nakumpiskar sa raid sa warehouse sa Davao City
Nakumpiskar ang halos P4-million nga balor sang ginapasuni nga marijuana products kasunod sang raid sang mga awtoridad sa warehouse sang isa ka kilala nga delivery company sa Purok 3, Barangay San Isidro, Bunawan District, Davao City.
Nanguna sa operasyon ang Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) Region XI nga gin-updan sang mga katapo sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) kag units sang Philippine National Police (PNP).
Lakip sa mga nakumpiskar amo ang marijuana kush, marijuana rolls and bricks, kag disposable vape pens nga nagaunod sang marijuana oil nga halin sa nanuhay-tuhay nga brand names.
Gintugyan ang ebidensya sa PDEA Region XI–Seaport Interdiction Unit sa Toril Office para sa nagakaigo nga kustodiya kag sa pagpasaka sang nagakaigu nga kaso.
Isa pa ka bangkay, na-recover sa landslide site sa Binaliw landfill sa Cebu
Ginkumpirma sang awtoridad sa Cebu nga duha na ang kumpirmado nga patay sa landslide sa Binaliw landfill sa Cebu City.
Na-recover ang isa pa ka bangkay subong nga hapon nga na-identify nga si Engineer James, 25.
Nagapakig-angot na ang awtoridad sa iya pamilya para sa dugang nga mga detalye.
Kahapon, may nauna na nga nakit-an nga isa ka bangkay.
Sandig sa latest validated report, ang insidente nagbilin na sang duha ka patay, 12 ka pilason, kag 36 ka missing.
Remulla, luyag imbestigaran ang BFP matapos nya ini tawgun nga ‘Most Corrupt Agency’ sa pungsod
Suno kay DILG Secretary Remulla nga ila tinlu-an ang nasambit nga ahensya agud nga mag-untat na ang korapsyon.
Pahayag niya, tama ka lapnagon ang pagpangkorap sang ahensya paagi sa indi husto nga pagbaligya sang fire extinguishers, pagkontrata sang sprinklers kag pag-issue sang mga building permits.
Pagahimuon sini ang tanan nga mga tikang agud nga malimpyohan ang BFP.
Dugang niya, agud nga masiguro nga wala sang anomaliya sa ila pagpang-inspeksyon, nagbakal sila sang 15,000 ka mga body-worn camera nga pagasuksokon 24 oras sang ila mga imbestigador agud nga ma-rekord ang ila tanan nga mga transaksyon.
Ang ini nga tikang nga pagpanglimpyo ukon pagpa-untat sang korapsyon sa BFP ang isa sa mga top priorities sang DILG subong nga tuig.
sa United Arab Emirates para sa isa ka adlaw nga working visit sa masunod nga semana.
Suno kay Presidential Communications Undersecretary Claire Castro, magabiya si Marcos sa Pilipinas sa Enero 12 para nga magtambong sa Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week.
Maga-upod man sa amo nga pagtilipon ang iban nga heads of state and government agud nga madiskusyunan ang mga isyu nga naangot sa enerhiya, tubig, pinansyal, pagkaon, kag dunang manggad.
Ang pagbisita ni Marcos ang kasunod sang imbitasyon nagikan kay UAE President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
Magluwas sa mismo agenda sa Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week, saksihan man ni Marcos ang pagpirma sang duha ka importante nga kasugtanan sa tunga sang Pilipinas kag UAE.
Ang CEPA amo ang una nga free trade agreement sang Pilipinas sa isa ka Middle Eastern country sa tuyo nga mapasangkad pa ang market access sa rehiyon.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang pirmahan naman nga defense cooperation deal amo ang magaserbe nga pulido nga pundasyon para sa kooperasyon sa tunga sang duha ka pungsod pag-abot sa defense technologies.
Remulla, ginapa-imbestigaran sa NBI ang ‘orchestrated campaign’ batok sa iya ikaayong lawas
Ginmanduan ni Ombudsman Jesus Crispin “Boying” Remulla ang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) nga imbestigaran ang mga nagapalapta sang mga malain nga impormasyon kaangot sa iya nga ikaayong lawas.
Sang nagligad nga semana, naglagaw ang mga social media posts nga nagasiling nga gindala sa ospital si Remulla, apang ginpanginwala ini sang iya utod kag mismo sang Ombudsman.
Pahayag sini, wala siya nakahibalo kun ano ang tuyo sini nga mga post, apang posible suno sa iya nga parte ini sang propaganda machine sang pila ka mga partido sa pulitika.
Kaya tignan natin kung saan pupunta,” suno sa Ombudsman.
Ginklaro man sini nga wala sang problema sa iya nga ikaayong lawas bangud naga-work out man ini adlaw-adlaw, nagatulog sang temprano, kag nagabugtaw sang aga pa.
Wala tayong magagawa naghahanap sila ng iistoryahin.
I came out of my radio program last Saturday, but Sunday, meron na naman, tuloy na naman.
Kaya makikita mo iyong bad faith,” suno sa iya.
Oktubre 2025 sang nagsugod pungko si Remulla bilang Ombudsman.
Nagpaidalom siya anay sa quintuple bypass surgery sang 2023 sang siya pa ang justice secretary.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, ginsapubliko sini nga na-diagnose siya nga may leukemia matapos ang surgery, apang naka-recover na siya kasunod sang treatment.#
Ginkumpiskar sang awtoridad ang walo ka malahalon nga mga salakyan nga ginapahayag nga naangot kay resigned Ako Bicol Representative Zaldy Co.
Ini paagi sa pagserbe sang search warrant sa sulod sang parking area sang condominium sa Bonifacio Global City (BGC).
Suno sa Criminal Investigation and Detection Group National Capital Region, siyam ka luxury cars ang subject sang ila dala nga warrant, apang walo lang ang nakit-an sa amo nga operasyon.
Lakip diri ang Rolls-Royce, tatlo ka Cadillac Escalades, duha ka Lexus units, isa ka Mercedes-Benz, kag isa ka Toyota Sequoia.
Ginpahayag nga hungod nga gintago ang mga salakyan sa parking slots nga assigned sa condominium units.
Base sa inisyal nga impormasyon, naka-rehistro ang mga salakyan sa nagkalain-lain nga mga kumpaniya lakip na sa Sunwest Construction kun sa diin co-founder si Co, samtang ang iban nga salakyan naman ang naka-rehistro sa pangalan sang iya nga asawa.
Present man ang mga opisyal nagikan sa Independent Commission for Infrastructure (ICI).
Matandaan nga nagpasaka ang National Bureau of Investigation sang bag-o nga kaso nga plunder batok sa anay kongresista bangud sang ginaalegar nga kahilabtanan sini sa flood control corruption scandal.
1 patay, 30 missing sa landslide sa landfill site sa Cebu City
Isa ang kumpirmado nga patay kag ginabanta nga 30 ang missing sa landslide nga nagluntad sa landfill site sa Barangay Binaliw, Cebu City kahapon sang hapon, Enero 8.
Suno kay Cebu City Mayor Nestor Archival, ginabanta nga 94 ka mga trabahador ang yara sa area sang natiphag ang duta.
As of 10 p.m., 9 workers ang na-rescue kag isa ang kumpirmado nga napatay.
Sa separado nga statement, ginkumpirma naman sang Prime Waste Solutions Cebu nga natabo ang landslide sa ila nga waste management facility sa Barangay Binaliw sang alas kuwatro sang hapon.
Suno sa operator sang pasilidad, naga-trabaho ini kaupod sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno kag sa lokal nga pamunuan agud nga maghatag sang kinahanglanon nga assistance kag agud nga maka-suporta sa mga apektado sang insidente.
Dugang pa sang Prime Waste Solutions Cebu, suspendido anay ang operasyon sang pasilidad.
Ginapangabay man sa publiko nga likawan anay ang pagpalapit sa area.
Una naman nga ginpahayag sang iban nga mga opisyal sang syudad nga bangud sa sunod-sunod nga mga pag-ulan, naghumok ang duta sa landfill rason nga wala nalikawan ang pag-collapse sini.
Bulkang Mayon padayon nga nagapagguwa sang dome; DSWD nagmando sang pagpadala sang dugang nga 100,000 family food packs sa Bicol
Padayon ang pagguwa sang dome nga may pyroclastic density current sa Bulkang Mayon base sa ginpaguwa nga report sang Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS).
Ginpakigbahin man sang PHIVOLCS nga nagapakita ang bulkan sang baga sa crater sang bulkan.
Suno pa sa ahensya nga ang sobra kainit nga gas halin sa bag-o nga magma nagapahiwatig sa atmospera sang crater sa sulod sang bulkan.
Nagapahanumdum ang PHIVOLCS nga nagapabilin sa Alert Level 3 ang Bulkang Mayon kag ginabawalan ang pagsulod sa anom ka kilometro nga permanent danger zone sa lugar.
Samtang, ginmando na ni Social Welfare Secretary Rex Gatchalian ang pagpadala sang dugang nga 100, 000 family food packs sa Rehiyon sang Bicol para sa mga pamilya nga apektado sang padayon nga pag-alburuto sang Bulkan Mayon.
Ginapasiguro sang DSWD nga may naka-preposition nga mga pagkaon kag non-food items sa nagkalain-lain nga bodega sa Rehiyon sang Bicol.
May ara sang P132.59 million nga stockpile kag standby funds nga handa sa DSWD field office 5 agud suportahan ang relief operations para sa mga pamilya nga apektado sang hulag sang Mayon.
Nahibaluan nga nagpagwa sang report ang PHIVOLCS nga may ara sang narekord nga masobra 130 rockfall events sa Mayon.
Ginsundan pa ini sang isa ka “ongoing dome collapse pyroclastic density current” ukon uson nga nacapture sang camera nga ginpahamtang malapit sa Mayon.
Sa subong may kabug-usan nga masobra 558 FFPS ang DSWD sa Disaster Resource Center sa Pasay City, Visayas Disaster Resource Center sa Mandaue City, kag Mindanao Disaster Resource Center sa Butuan City.
4 Filipino cardinals, magatambong sa una nga consistory ni Pope Leo XIV sa Roma
Nagbiyahe liwat padulong sa Vatican ang tatlo ka Filipino nga cardinal agud magtambong sa una nga extraordinary consistory nga ginpatawag ni Pope Leo XIV.
Maga-updanay man sila ni Cardinal Luis Antonio Tagle nga sa karon naka-base sa Roma bangod sa iya papel bilang pro-prefect sang Dicastery for Evangelization.
Ang consistory amo ang pormal nga pagtililipon sang College of Cardinals nga ginapatawag sang Santo Papa agud diskusyunan ang husto kag matarong nga pagdumala sang Simbahan Katolika.
Sa press release sang Vatican, ginsiling nga ang consistory magalakip sang “moments of communion and fraternity” kag tyempo nga idedikar para sa “reflection, sharing and prayer.”
Magasugod ang consistory subong nga adlaw, Enero 7, kag magapadayon ini tubtob Enero 8.
Resulta sang 2025 Bar exams, ipaguwa na subong nga adlaw
Ipaguwa na subong nga adlaw, Enero 7, 2026, ang resulta sang 2025 bar examinations.
13,193 ang admitted applicants para sa bar exams, apang 11,425 ka examinees lamang ang nakakumpleto sa pagkuha sang test sadtong Septyembre 7, 10, kag 14.
Ini ang pinakamataas nga rekord sang nakatapos sang exam sa Philippine Bar history.
Na-highlight man sa 2025 Bar Examinations ang resilience sang mga Pilipino nga luyag mangin abogado.
Sa numero sang examinees, lakip sa rekord amo ang 41 ka nagabusong, 206 ka senior citizens, 139 ka mga indibidwal nga may medical conditions, kag 241 ka persons with disabilities.
Ginpatigayon ang exams sa 14 local testing centers sa lain-lain nga bahin sang pungsod lakip na sa Central Philippine University (CPU) sa Iloilo City.
Suno sa Korte Suprema, maga-umpisa sa pagguwa ang pangalan sang bar passers 1:00 karon sa hapon.
I-post man ang pangalan sang mga nakapasar sa LED walls sa Supreme Courtyard, kag sa website kag official social media accounts sang Korte Suprema.
Magasumpa ang bar passers kag magapirma sa Roll of Attorneys sa Pebrero 6.
Marcos, indi magpahilabot kun may bag-o nga impeachment case vs Sara
Indi magpahilabot si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
kun may panibag-o nga impeachment complaint nga ipasaka batok kay Vice President Sara Duterte.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Claire Castro, wala nagapatunga ang Malacañang sa sini nga bagay bangud natuon ini sa hurisdiksyon sang Kongreso.
Apang suno kay Castro, ginasulit sang Palasyo ang panindugan nga luyag sang presidente nga manabat kun sin-o ang dapat nga manabat.
“Hindi magkakaroon ng pagkakaisa kung may naiiwang isyung dapat sagutin.
Sa ngayon, muli, hindi po sakop ng Pangulo kung sinuman po ang magsasampa ng impeachment complaint laban sa Bise Presidente,” suno sa iya.
Ini nga reaksyon ang kasunod sang pahayag sang Makabayan bloc nga handa sila nga mag-endorso sang bag-o nga impeachment bid batok kay Dutete kun mag-expire na ang one-year ban sang Korte Suprema sa Pebrero.
Masobra sa 200 ka mga kongresista ang nag-endorso sang ikaapat nga complaint rason nga na-impeach si Sara sa Kamara.
Nagdesisyon naman ang Senado nga unconstitutional ang amo nga impeachment complaint, samtang nagboto naman ang Senado, 19-4 kag isa ka abstenstion, agud nga i-archive ang impeachment articles.
Mga residente sa sulod sang Mayon danger zone, ginpa-evacuate
Ginmandu ang pag-evacuate sang masobra 700 ka mga pamilya ukon malapit 3,000 ka mga indibidwal nga nagapuyo sa sulod sang six-kilometer Permanent Danger Zone sang Bulkan Mayon sa Albay.
Suno sa Office of Civil Defense sa Bicol, nagpadala na ang lokal nga pamunuan sang mga Army truck agud nga mapadasig ang paghakot sa mga residente.
Magatipon man ang response cluster sang Regional Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council subong nga adlaw para masiguro ang suporta sa mga evacuees.
May ginbutang naman nga checkpoints sa palibot sang bulkan agud wala na sang makasulod sa permanent danger zone.
Kahapon, Enero 6, sang ginpasaka sa Alert Level 3 ang status sang bulkan bangud sa pyroclastic density current ukon “uson” nga makamamatay para sa mga tawo.
Suno sa Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (Phivolcs), ang pag-collapse sang lava dome ukon ang lava nga nagtipon kag nagtig-a sa tuktok sang Mayon, ang nagpaguwa sang pyroclastic density currents (PDCs) sa southeast side sang bulkan.
Katapusan nga napaidalom ang Mayon sa Alert Level 3 sadtong Hunyo 2023 bangud man sang effusive magmatic eruption.
Ang alert levels nagahalin sa 1 tubtub 5.
Ang Level 5 nagakahulugan nga may yara na sang hazardous eruption.
Average inflation rate sang Pilipinas, nagdangat sa 1.7% sa pagtakop sang 2025 suno sa PSA
Nagtakop ang tuig 2025 nga may 1.7% nga average inflation rate ang Pilipinas, suno sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA).
Ini nga porsyento ang sulod sa target sang gobyerno nga 2% tubtob 4%.
Suno kay National Statistician kag PSA chief Claire Dennis Mapa, ang kabug-osan nga inflation rate sang Disyembre 2025 ang naglab-ot sa 1.8% , mas mataas kumpara sa 1.5% nga na-record sa bulan sang Nobyembre.
Bangud sini naka-record sang 1.7% nga national average inflation rate para sa tuig 2025, nga nagakahulugan nga ang presyo sang mga balaklon sa Pilipinas stable kag kontrolado.
Mga senador, gindayaw ang pagpirma sa national budget kag pag-veto sa UAs
Gindayaw sang mga senador ang pagpirma ni President Bongbong Marcos sang P6.793 trillion nga 2026 national budget amo man ang pag-veto sini sang halos P92.5 billion nga balor sang mga proyekto sa idalom sang unprogrammed appropriations (UAs).
Suno kay Senate President Vicente “Tito” Sotto III, ang 2026 budget amo ang pinakamalimpyo nga budget, apang luyag pa gid sang presidente nga mas mangin matinlo ini.
Ginsiling ni Sotto nga husto ang desisyon sang president nga i-veto ang pila ka items.
“Malinis yun budget pero gusto ni PBBM mas malinis pa.”
Para naman kay Senator Erwin Tulfo, Vice Chairperson sang Senate Finance Committee, amo ini ang “most transparent budget law” sa recent history sang Pilipinas.
Amo ini ang budget suno sa iya nga makabalik sang salig sang publiko sa gobyerno.
Gindayaw man sini ang pag-veto sa pila ka items sa unprogrammed funds bangud ginapatihan sini nga mahimo ini gamiton sa misuse.
Gin-abi-abi naman ni Senator Bam Aquino ang budget signing.
Ginhatagan sini sang pagtamod ang kinahanglanon nga bulig sang sector sang edukasyon lakip na ang pagtukod sang classrooms, dugang nga pondo sa school-based feeding program kag libre nga kolehiyo, kag iban pa nga suporta sa mga estudyante.
“Panalo ang kabataang Pilipino ngayong naaprubahan na ang 2026 national budget.
Sa pamamagitan nito, mapopondohan na at maipatutupad nang tama ang mga mahahalagang programang makatutulong upang mapalakas at mapabuti ang sektor ng edukasyon,” suno kay Aquino.
Malipayon naman kag kuntento si Senate President Pro Tempore Panfilo sa veto.
Gin-abi-abi man sini ang mensahe sang presidente nga dumilian na ang involvement sang pulitika sa pagpanagtag sang assistance.
Sa pagpirma ni Marcos sa Republic Act No.
12314 ukon ang 2026 General Appropriations Act kahapon sa Malacañang, ginsiling sini nga ang veto nagatuyo nga masigurado nga magasto ang pondo sang gobyerno santo sa kun ano ang prayoridad sang national government kag kun ano ang interes sang nasyon.
4 weather systems, nagaapekto sa madamo nga parte sang Pilipinas
Mangin maulanon kag magal-umon ang madamo nga parte sang pungsod bangud sang nanuhay-tuhay nga weather systems.
Suno sa state weather bureau, ang nagaapekto subong sa Pilipinas amo ang shear line sa eastern section sang Southern Luzon, Northeast Monsoon ukon amihan sa nabilin nga bahin sang Luzon, kag easterlies sa nabilin nga bahin sang pungsod.
Sa Visayas, posible ang flash floods kag ang pagtiphag sang duta bangud sang kasarangan tubtub mamunog nga pag-ulan.
May Low Pressure Area (LPA) nga na-monitor sa guwa sang Philippine Area of Responsibility (PAR) partikular sa 725 km nabagatnan-nakatundan sang Pagasa Island, Kalayaan, Palawan.
Suno sa weather bureau, posible nga indi ini mag-develop sa bagyo.
Nagadala ang trough sini sang magal-umon nga tyempo kag lapta-lapta nga pag-ulan kag thunderstorms sa Zamboanga Peninsula, Basilan, Tawi-Tawi, kag Palawan.#
Chavit Singson, nagpanawagan sa pag-upod sa ‘one time, big time’ rally batok sa kurapsyon
Nagpanawagan si anay Ilocos Sur Governor Chavit Singson nga mag-upod sa “one time, big time” rally batok sa mga alegasyon sa flood control projects.
Suno kay Singson, dapat matabo ang protesta “as soon as possible” ukon ASAP.
Nagaplano man ini nga magpakig-angot sa mga relihiyoso nga organisasyon nga nagapamatok man sa graft kag sa kurapsyon.
Sang ginpamangkot siya kun patigayunon ini sa Pebrero, naghando man ini, apang nakadepende suno sa iya sa makasugtan nga schedule.
Sa Pebrero iga-komemorar ang 40th anniversary sang EDSA People Power revolution nga amo ang nagsipa kay former President Ferdinand Marcos, Sr.
Ang magde-decide ang religious organizations, the opposition, lahat ng nagmamahal sa ating bansa.
I will prefer yung kabataan ang magsabi ng date,” suno naman kay Singson.
“Dapat kasama ang kabataan dito kasi ninakaw ang future ng kabataan…Ang kabataan ang kinabukasan ng ating bansa, yan ang sabi ni Jose Rizal…Future niyo ito… tumayo kayo, huwag kayo matakot, kasi future niyo ito,” dugang niya.
Kabahin ini sang ginpanghambal ni Singson sa iya nga press conference kun sa diin gin-akusaran sini si President Bongbong Marcos kag si anay House Speaker Martin Romualdez nga amo suno sa iya ang sa likod sang kurapsyon.
Ginhangkat man ni Singson si Romualdez kag si Marcos sa debate.
Suno sa iya, handa siya nga magkadto sa Malacañang.
Wala naman ginsapak sang Palasyo ang hangkat.
Suno kay Presidential Communications Undersecretary Claire Castro, wala dapat ginapaagi sa debate ang away batok sa kurapsyon, kundi paagi sa paghulag kag pagpasabat sa mga tawo nga involve.
Pahayag ni Castro, masako ang presidente sa pagpa-umwad sang kabuhi sang mga tawo kag sang ekonomiya.
Ang kinahanglan suno kay Castro amo ang maayo nga panggobyerno, kag indi ang pagpakuno-kuno lang sa atubang sang media.
Off-duty PCG personnel, ginluwas ang bata nga nalumos sa pool
Ginpabugal sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) ang ginhimo sang isa nila ka off-duty personnel nga nagluwas sa isa ka bata sa drowning incident sa Zamboanga City.
Sa statement sang PCG, gindayaw sini ang pagka-propesyunal nga ginpakita ni PO3 Al-Shier Alimuddin nga assigned sa Coast Guard Sub-Station Siasi.
Wala sang duty si Alimuddin sang Domingo sang gab-i kag nagatambong sa isa ka private family gathering sa resort sa Cabatangan, Zamboanga City.
Samtang nagakinasadya, ginpahibalo sa iya nga may walo ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki nga nalumos sa swimming pool.
Bangud sa madasig nga bulig, naka-recover ang bata, kag gindala sa ospital para sa dugang nga medical treatment.
Subong, yara na ini sa estable nga kondisyon.
ICI, mahimo makonsiderar nga wala na sang pulos ang nabilin nga myembro apisar retirado nga mahistrado
Mahimo makonsiderar nga wala na sang pulos ang nabilin nga miyembro sang Independent Commission for Infrastructure (ICI) apisar isa ini ka retirado nga mahistrado.
Suno sa Constitutional law expert nga si Atty.
Domingo Egon Cayosa, dako nga kadulaan ang mga naghalalin nga miyembro sang panel kag amo man ang mga imbestigador sini.
Dugang niya, redundant ang ICI bangud ginasulit lamang sini ang katungdanan sang Office of the Ombudsman nga may mas masangkad nga gahum batok sa kagarukan.
Ginpahayag man ni Cayosa nga ang Ombudsman may ara sang mandato nagikan sa konstitusyon kag may kina-iya ini nga suguon ang tanan nga ahensya sang gobyerno, law enforcement, investigatoty units kag Commission on Audit.
Dugang pa sini, mangin limitado lamang sa fact finding kag recommendatory power ang ICI gani indi na ini makahulag gid sang epektibo batok sa mga anomalya sa flood control projects.
Nagapati man si Cayosa nga mas mangin maayo kun ang Sandiganbayan kag ang korte ang magatalana sang kaugalingon sini nga deadlines para mapadali ang pagresolba sang mga kaso sa korapsyon.
Nagpanawagan man sila nga bantayan kag obligahon sang Ombudsman ang ila katungdanan bilang institusyon batok sa korapsyon nga nagakatabo sa pungsod.
Bombo Radyo Philippines, magapatigayon na naman sang Top Level Management Conference
Pagamarkahan sang Bombo BOMBO RADYO PHILIPPINES ang anom ka dekada nga pagpangibabaw sa patag sang pagwaragwag paagi sa liwat nga pagpatigayon sang Top Level Management Conference umpisa Enero 5 tubtob 11, 2026, nga may tema nga “Bombo Radyo Philippines: Celebrating 60 Years of Media Excellence.”
Florete, ang conference magatipon sang tanan nga station managers kag senior officers gikan sa 25 key areas sang Bombo Radyo Philippines network sa Iloilo City.
Ang week-long gathering magasentro sa strategic planning kag direction-setting samtang nagahulag ang network padulong sa makabig nga milestone sang pag-eksister sini.
Ang mga diskusyon ang magasentro sa inobasyon, public service, kag padayon nga commitment sa masaligan, responsable kag public service–oriented broadcasting.
Bilang kabahin sang ika- 60 nga anniversary celebration, ginapabugal gid sang Bombo Radyo Philippines ang malawig nga listahan sang prestihiyoso nga awards nga nagakilala sa kasampat sang Bombo Radyo sa patag sang pagdul-ong sang balita, public affairs programming, kag public service broadcasting.
Pila sa mga achievements nagalakip sang pagdaug sang flagship nationwide program sang network nga Bombo Network News nga back-to-back winner sang Catholic Mass Media Awards (CMMA) bilang Best News Program para sa 2024 kag 2025.
Ang FM counterpart sini nga Star FM ang ginkilala naman nga Best Entertainment Program sa sulod sang tatlo ka sunod-sunod nga tuig halin 2023 tubtob 2025.
Samtang, ang Bombo Radyo Iloilo, ang flagship station sang network, ang ginkilala bilang Best AM Station (Provincial) kag Best News Program (Provincial) ang Bombo News and Views Morning Edition sa 28th Golden Dove Awards (2025) sang Kapisanan ng mga Brodkaster sa Pilipinas (KBP).
Magluwas sa sini nga mga awards, nagapamatuod man ang resulta sang independent surveys tuhoy sa kredibilidad sang network kag ang pagsalig sang publiko.
Ginkilala man ini sang OCTA Research (December 2024) bilang leading radio source sang news and information sa mga Filipino adults, kag nalakip man sa top rank sa quarterly Pahayag Survey sang Publicus Asia, Inc.
Ini nga mga pasidungog ang repleksyon sang dedikasyon sang Bombo Radyo Philippines sa pagtib-ong sang pinakamataas nga standards sang broadcast journalism.
Ang conference nagapamatuod man sang legasiya sang Bombo Radyo Philippines bilang leading radio network sa pungsod, nga naga- operate sang 32 fully digitalized AM kag FM stations nationwide, kag nagaserbe nga simbolo sang hugot sa tagipusuon nga pagpahayag sang pagpasalamat sa publiko.
Bangud sa inyo, ang Bombo Radyo padayon sa pagtib-ong sang EXCELLENCE in BROADCASTING kag pag-dul-ong sang balita kag serbisyo publiko sa indi matupungan nga performance.
Pag-ulan sa una nga semana sang tuig nagtuga sang pagbaha sa pila ka lugar sa Pilipinas, 1 patay bangud sa pagtaob sang bangka sa Camarines Sur
Nagtuga sang pagbaha kag wala ginalauman nga insidente ang pag-ulan sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang pungsod bangud sa shearline kag easterlies.
Bangud sini, pila ka mga Local Government Units (LGU) ang nagsuspinde sang klase sa parte sang Luzon kag iban nga bahin sang lugar sa Visayas subong nga adlaw sang Lunes.
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka indibidwal sa Camarines Sur kag isa naman ang ginpangita pa bangud sa pagtaob sini sang bangka nga ila ginasakyan sini dala sang mabaskog nga ulan sa lugar.
Samtang, sa Tayasan, Negros Oriental base sa video nga ila gin-post sa social media makita ang delikado nga pagtabog sang mga residente sa nagahagunos nga tubig sa spillway.
Ginbaha man ang bahin sang Victoria sa Oriental Mindoro kahapon sang weekend.
Samtang, naglab-ot naman sa tuhod ang pagbaha sa Tacloban City sa Leyte
Sa South Cotabato, tatlo ka mga barangay sa T’boli ang ginbaha kag naguba pa ang ila taytay nga gina-agyan bangud sa mabaskog nga ulan.
Naapektuhan man ang bahin sang Valencia City, Bukidnon, amo man sa Sa Cagayan de Oro City nga nagresulta sang pagkadula sang mga balay sang anom ka magpamilya.
Base sa forecast sang PAGASA, ang shear line kag easterlies ang nagadala sang pag-ulan sa Visayas, samtang ang easterlies naman ang nagadala sang pag-ulan sa bahin sang Mindanao.
Lacson, nagalaom nga indi mag-untat sa pagpakigbato si Pres.
batok sa nagaduging nga korapsyon sa pungsod
Nagalaom si Senate Pro Tempore Ping Lacson nga indi mag-untat sa pagpakigbato si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
batok sa nagaduging nga korapsyon sa pungsod.
Suno pa kay Senator Lacson nga kuntaani indi madula ang momentum sang Presidente matapos ang SONA 2025 batok sa mga wala sang huya nga naangot sa corruption sa flood control.
Suno pa sa iya nga kinahanglan nga pabaskugon ang kampanya batok sa korupsyon sa tuig 2026.
Ginapangunahan ni Senator Lacson ang Blue Ribbon Committee sa imbestigasyon sa gina-alegar nga kickback scheme sa mga ghost o substandard flood control projects.
Sa matandaan nga nangin kotrobersyal ang ini nga problema sa pungsod kun sa diin nanginpulos ang pila ka indibidwal sang DPWH officials, mga mamalidha, kag mga kontraktor halin sa kwarta sang mga taxpayer.
Dugang pa ni Lacson nga ang nagligad nga dokumento halin ato kay DPWH undersecretary Maria Catalina Cabral nga nangin basehan sang imbestigasyon.
Barzaga, nagpanawagan sang imbestigasyon kun naangot sa flood control controversy ang kamatayon ni Lamasan
Nagpaguwa sang iya nga statement si suspended Cavite 4th District Rep.
Kiko Barzaga kaangot sa kamatayon ni Dueñas, Iloilo Vice Mayor Aimee Paz Lamasan.
Ginsal-ot sini sa video ang mga personalidad sa Iloilo nga suno sa iya mga “notable figures” sa “flood control corruption scandal.” Ginbutang sini sanday Iloilo Third District Representative kag Senior Deputy Majority Leader Defensor; kag First District kag Deputy Speaker Janet Garin kag anak sini nga si Board Member Rica Jane Garin.
Ginpasuni man ni Barzaga nga makaduluda ang timing kag nature sa likod sang kamatayon ni Lamasan.
Nag- “Happy New Year” pa ini sa katapusan sang iya nga video.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Iloilo City Police Office (ICPO) nga natabo ang insidente sa isa ka residential village sa Barangay Tabuc Suba, La Paz, Iloilo City sang Disyembre 30.
Base sa inisyal nga reports, ginapreparar sang vice mayor ang mga gamit sini, apang aksidente sini nga napitik ang trigger sang iya pusil kag naigo siya sa tuo nga bahin sang iya nga tiyan.
Ginpaidalom pa si Lamasan sa operasyon, samtang napatay sang Bisperas sang New Year samtang padayon siya nga ginabulong sa ospital.
Nagtukod na ang ICPO sang Special Investigation Team agud nga lantawon ang sirkumstansya sa likod sang kamatayon sini.
Sa statement naman sang pamilya Lamasan, ginsiling nila nga ipaguwa nila ang official cause of death ni Lamasan kun mangin available na ang supporting documents.
Napatay ang isa ka ido sa animal shelter sa Dumaguete City, Negros Or.
matapos gin-atake sa tagipusuon bangud wala untat nga pagpalupok sa palibot sang pasilidad.
Suno sa tagdumalahan sang Dumaguete Animal Sanctuary, nagakurog-kurog sa kahadlok ang ido nga si Noah tubtob nga natumba na lang ini.
Pahayag sang shelter, madugay na nila ginpangabay sa mga residente nga likawan ang pagpalupok malapit sa pasilidad.
Tuman naman ang kalisod sang mga nagapalangga kay Noah kasunod sang iya kamatayon.
Naka-record ang Philippine National Police (PNP) sang 15 ka kaso sang indiscriminate firings kadungan sang holidays halin sang Disyembre 16 tubtub sang Enero 1.
Apat sa sini nga mga insidente ang naga-involve sang personnel mismo sang PNP.
Tag-duha ka kaso ang natabo sa Ilocos Sur kag Iloilo, samtang tag-isa naman sa Abra, Batangas, Benguet, Cagayan de Oro City, Catanduanes, Isabela, Manila, Negros Occidental, Pampanga, Parañaque City, kag Surigao del Sur.
Base sa data sang pulis, anum sa sini nga mga kaso ang natabo sa Christmas Day, tatlo sang kaagahon sang New Year’s Day, duha sang Dec.
Bangud sa amo nga insidente, 14 ka mga indibidwal ang gindakop, samtang tatlo naman ang nagapabilin nga at large.
Sa mga kaso nga naga-involve sang police personnel, kun basehan ang PNP data, lakip sa na-rekord amo ang police master sergeant sa Surigao del Sur, police senior master sergeant sa Iloilo, patrolman sa Parañaque City, kag patrolman sa Cagayan de Oro.
Arestado ang tatlo nga halin sa Surigao del Sur, Iloilo, kag Paranaque, samtang ginapangita pa ang personnel nga involved sa insidente sa Cagayan de Oro.
Presyo sang LPG, magataas sa imbukada nga adlaw sang Enero
Lauman ang pagtaas sang presyo sang Liquefied Petroleum Gas ukon (LPG) sa imbukada nga adlaw sang Enero, 2026.
Base sa advisory, yara sa P2.18 kada kilo ang ginalauman nga pagtaas sang kada LPG, epektibo alas 12:01 kaina sang kaagahon sang Enero 1, 2026.
Ini bangud sa P23.98 nga pagtaas sa presyo sang isa ka tipikal nga 11-kilogram nga LPG tank.
Dugang pa nga ang amo nga pagtaas ang nagabase sa international contract price sang LPG para sa bulan sang Enero.
Numero sang mga biktima sang palupok sini nga holiday season, naglab-ot na sa 140 suno sa DOH
Naglab-ot na sa 140 ang numero sang mga biktima sang palupok sa sini nga holiday season.
Base sa monitoring sang Department of Health (DOH) halin 62 ka sentinel hospitals, nagdugang sang 8 ka bag-o nga kaso sang mga nasamaran tungod sa palupok.
Suno sa ahensya, 95 sa mga biktima ang naga-edad 19 anyos panubo.
Pinakamadamo sa mga nasamaran ang resulta sang paggamit sang palupok nga 5-star, boga, kag iban pa nga peke nga sahi sang palupok.
Ang narekord nga kaso sang firecracker-related injuries subong nga tuig 23% nga mas manubo kumpara sa 182 ka kaso sang tuig 2024.
Gina-abisuhan liwat sang DOH ang publiko nga dal-on gilayon sa ospital ang biktima sang palupok ukon magtawag sa National Emergency Hotline 911 para sa emergency medical assistance.
4.5 million nga mga pasahero na-rekord sang Philippine Ports Authority sa mga pantalan subong nga holiday season
Naglab-ot na sa 4.5 million nga pasahero ang na-rekord sang Philippine Ports Authority sa mga pantalan subong nga holiday season.
Ang ini nga numero sang pasahero nakuha halin sang Disyembre 15 tubtob kahapon nga adlaw, Disyembre 30.
Suno sa Philippine Ports Authority mas mataas ang ini nga numero kumpara sang nagligad nga tuig.
Ginalauman sang ahensya nga malagpasan sang ini nga datos ang ila target nga 4.6 million nga pasahero subong nga tuig.
Ginmanduan man sang PPA ang mga pasahero nga indi makigtransaksyon sa mga fixers.
Hugot man nga ginadumulian ang pagdala sang pila ka mga item kaangay sang mga makahulubog nga ilimnon kag palupok.Ini agud mangin matawhay ang byahe sang mga pasahero.
Kamara kag Senado, ginratipikahan na ang P6.7-Trillion 2026 National Budget; pila ka mga kongresista ginkwestyon ang budget
Matapos ang pagratipika sang National budget for 2026 kahapon nga adlaw, may pila ka mga kongresista nga gin-kwestyon ang national budget.
Leandro Leviste ang pagtaas sang budget sang Kamara wala gindebatihan sang maayo.
Suno pa sa iya nga dapat ipaidalom sa budget debate ang pondo para mangin maathag ini sa publiko.
Gilayon man nga ginsuspide ang sesyon sang lower chamber.
Magabalik ang regular session sa January 26, 2026.
Samtang, dismayado naman si ML Partylist Rep.
Leila De Lima sa madasig nga pag-ratipika sang Kamara sa Bicam report para sa 2026 General Appropriations Bill (GAB).
De Lima nga ”no” man sini ang iya nga boto paagi sang Viva Voce nga botohan.
Mikaela Suansing nagpanindugan ini nga wala sang pork barrel sa 2026 national budget.
Suno pa sa iya nga ginbutangan ini sang safeguard nga wala ginapahanugutan ang political involvement sa pag-distribute sang budget.
Ombudsman, nagpahayag nga wala ginpakita ni Batangas Rep.
Leviste ang kabug-usan nga dokumneto halin sa nagtaliwan nga anay opisyal sang DPWH nga si Undersecretary Cabral
Napagwa sang pahayag ang Office of the Ombudsman nga wala ginpakita ni Batangas 1st District Rep.
Leandro Leviste ang kabug-usan nga dokumneto halin sa nagtaliwan nga anay opisyal sang Department of Public Works and Highways nga si Undersecretary Catalina Cabral.
Una na ginpahayag sini nga maya ara sang ginakaptan nga listahan ini sang mga proponents sa maanomaliya nga mga proyekto nga nakuha sini sa napatay nga opisyal.
Mico Clavano,ginpalapitan sang mga imbestigador sang Office of the Ombudsman ang tiglikom kasunod sang gintuad sini sa publiko may ara ini sang kopya nga ginauyatan.
Suno pa sa iya nga natabo ini samtang buhi pa si former Public Works Usec.
Catalina Cabral sang ginrepresenta ini sang iya legal counsel.
Apang, ginbunyag ni Assistant Ombudsman Clavano nga ‘limited portions’ ukon parte lamang sa listahan ukon dokumento ang ginpresenta sang kongresista.
Kabaliskaran sa pahayag ni Congressman Leviste nga nagapahayg nga ginpakita ang kabug-usan nga ‘Cabral Files’ sa Office of the Ombudsman.
Presyo sang Diesel kag Kerosene, lauman nga magasaka antes magtakop ang 2025
Lauman ang senentimos nga pagsaka sang presyo sang diesel kag kerosene antes magtakop ang tuig 2025.
Para sa diesel kag kerosene magsaka sang P0.60 kada litro, samtang ang presyo sang gasoline ang wala sang pagbag-o sa sini nga semana.
Ipatuman ang nasambit nga pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo Martes sang aga.
DTI, nagpagwa sang listahan sang mga palupok nga nakapasar sa kalidad sini bag-o ang paghiwat sang Bag-ong tuig 2026
Nagpagwa ang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) sang listahan sang mga palupok nga nakapasar sa ila quality test bag-o ang paghiwat sang Bag-ong tuig.
Nabutang sa listahan ang mga manufacturers kag brands nga nagcomply sa quality standards.
Nagpahanumdum ini nga magbakal lamang sang sertipikado nga palupok halin sa mga lisensyado nga mga manughimo.
Ang mga sertipikado nga palupok kinahanglan may Philippine Standard Quality Mark sang DTI–Bureau of Philippine Standards (BPS).
May ginhatag man ang ahensya nga link sa ila social media sang mga listahan nga gin-aprobahan nga mga manughimo.
Nagpahanumdum man ini nga basahon sing maathag kag sundon ang mga instrtuction kon magsindi sang palupok.
Suno pa sa DTI nga kinahanglan man maghanda sang isa ka timba sang tubig ukon bisan ano nga ginhalinan sang tubig, upod ang first aid kit para sa mga emerhensiya.
Isa patay kag tatlo pilason sa natabo nga mass shooting sa Chicago
Patay ang isa ka tawo kag tatlo naman ang pilason sa natabo nga mass shooting sa Chicago.
Base sa impormasyon sang kapulisan, ginpalapitan sang isa ka lalaki ang salakyan sang mga biktima kag wala untat nga ginpaarakan sang luthang ang mga ini.
Naigo sa nagkalin-lain nga bahin sang lawas ang 34-anyos nga biktima kun sa diin gindala pa ini sa ospital apang napatay gid.
Samtang, may igo naman sa likod ang 43-anyos nga biktima.
Gindala naman ang mga pilason nga biktima sa ospital kag padayon pa sa gihapon nga ginabulong.
Dali-dali naman nga nalagyo ang suspek antes paman nag-abot ang mga kapulisan sa lugar.
Mga biktima sang firecracker related incident sa Pilipinas, Naglab-ot na sa 112
Naglab-ot na sa 112 ang kaso sang nahalitan bangud sa palupok halin Disyembre 21 tubtob Disymebre 28, 2025.
Suno sa Department of Health, mas manubo ini sang 26% kumpara sa pareho man nga period sang nagligad nga tuig.
Pahayag sang ahensya, ini tanda man sang epektibo nga kampanya batok sa malain nga epekto sang palupok.
Na-rekord ang pinakamadamo nga kaso sa National Capital Region, sunod ang Ilocos Region, Central Luzon, kag Western Visayas.
Madamo sa mga biktima amo ang mga bata nga lalaki nga nag-edad 5 tubtob 14 anyos nga nagagamit sang palupok kaangay sang Piccolo, Kwitis, kag 5-Star.
Magluwas sa palupok, narekord man ang 376 ka aksidente sa kalsada kag 190 ka kaso sang noncommunicable diseases kaangay sang stroke, heart attack, kag asthma.
Suno pa sa DOH, madamo sa mga naga-eksperyensya sang stroke kag heart attack ang mga lalaki, samtang sa mga babyi naman ang madali nga maka-experiensya sang asthma.
Padayon ang panawagan sang DOH sa publiko nga maglikaw sa paggamit sang delikado nga palupok.
Nag-abiso man ini nga pilion ang safe nga mga alternatibo nga pampagahod para malikawan ang aksidente subong nga nagahilapit na ang pag-selebrar sang bag-ong tuig.
si Darrick Gates sang Ireland sa ikaduha nga round sang ila four-round lightweight bout subong nga adlaw sa Temecula, California, USA.
Ini ang ikaduha nga professional bout ni Jimuel, apang ini ang una nga na-rehistro nga kadalag-an matapos nagtakop sa majority draw ang iya debut sang Nobyembre.
Nakatindog pa ang 36-anyos nga former MMA fighter antes ang count of 10, apang nangluya na sa pwersa sang 25-anyos nga Filipino prospect nga nagpuntariya sang iya lawas.
Sa ikaduha sini nga pagluhod, nabudlayan na ini nga magtindog rason nga gin-untat na sang referee ang hampang.
Nagsaka na ang professional record ni Jimuel sa 1-0-1, samtang 0-2 slate naman ang record ni Gates.
Pagkatapos sang sambuwa, gilayon nga nagsaka sa ring si eight-division world champion Manny Pacquiao agud maghakos kag magpanginbulahan sa iya subang nga anak.
Ang co-main event sa amo nga hampang naga-feature man sa Pinoy boxer nga si Pedro Taduran.
Nadepensahan sini ang iya IBF minimumweight title matapos gintumba ang Mexican contender nga si Gustavo Perez Alvarez sa 7th round.#
Ginsigurado sang Pinoy boxer nga si Pedro Taduran nga mapanas sini ang yuhom sa nawong sang Mexican boxer nga si “Smiley” Gustavo Perez Alvarez sa ila pag-atubangay.
Sa ila sambuwa sa Pechanga Resort and Casino sa Temecula, California, gintumba sang tumandok sang Libon, Albay ang 27-anyos nga boksidor sa ika-pito nga round kag dalayon nga nadepensahan ang iya International Boxing Federation minimumweight title.
Nakatindog pa ang challenger antes ang count of 10, apang ginpa-untat na sang referee nga si Thomas Taylor ang hampang bangud ini na ang ikaapat nga tumba ni Perez Alvarez.
Nagsaka na ang professional boxing record ni Taduran sa 20-4-1 (win-loss-draw) nga may 14 knockouts, samtang nag-us-os naman si Perez Alvarez sa 16-2.
Antes pa man ang sambuwa subong nga adlaw, nagpabutyag na siya sang daku nga interes sa unification fight kay WBO/WBA champion Oscar Collazo.
Doncic, indi na makaupod sa final five regular-season games bangud sa hamstring injury
Indi makaupod si Los Angeles Lakers superstar Luka Doncic sa ulihi nga lima ka hampang sang team sa regular season sang National Basketball Association (NBA) matapos nagsuprer sang left hamstring injury.
Sandig sa reports, wala man sang kasiguruhan kun san-o makabalik ang Slovenian player.
Naangkon sini ang injury sa hampang batok sa Oklahoma City Thunder.
Nalutos ang Lakers, 139-97, nga amo ang nag-utod sang ila four-game win streak.
Suno kay Los Angeles coach JJ Redick, natalana nga ipaidalom ang six-time All-Star guard sa MRI exam.
Nagapanguna si Doncic sa scoring sa NBA subong nga may 33.5 points per game kag may average nga 8.3 assists kag 7.7 rebounds.
Nakahampang man ini sa 64 games nga kabos sang isa para sa minimum nga mangin eligible para sa postseason awards.
Suno sa iya agent nga si Bill Duffy sang WME Basketball, nagaplano sila nga mag-apply para sa “Extraordinary Circumstances Challenge” sa pagsulundan.
Matandaan nga wala man nakahampang si Doncic sa apat ka games bangud man sang left hamstring strain sang Pebrero.
Pacquiao, ginbali ang pahayag ni Mayweather nga ‘exhibition fight’ lang ang ila rematch
nga isa lang ka exhibition fight ang ila liwat nga pag-atubangay sa Septyembre 19.
Suno kay Pacquiao, isa ka matuod-tuod nga away ang nakabutang sa kasugtanan nga iya ginpirmahan kaupod kay Mayweather.
Pahayag pa sang Pinoy boxer, indi siya maghampang kun para lang ini sa exhibition.
Dapat dumdumon ni Mayweather suno sa iya kun ano ang iya ginpirmahan.
Madumduman nga sang nagligad nga bulan sang gin-anunsyo sang duha ka boksidor ang ila rematch kasunod sang landmark 2015 match.
Sa initial announcement, patigayunon ang sambuwa sa Sphere sa Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
Sa interview naman kay Mayweather, gintawag niya ini nga exhibition nga buot silingon, kun ano man ang mangin resulta, wala ini sang epekto sa ila nga professional records.
Ginsiling man anay ni Mayweather nga wala pa nahitso kun diin gid ang venue.
Nahibaluan nga yara subong si Pacquiao sa Los Angeles, California agud nga lantawon ang pro match sang iya bata nga si Jimuel sa undecard sang IBF minimumweight world title fight.#
American professional golfer nga si Tiger Woods, gin-aresto matapos naulamid sa isa ka vehicular accident nga yara sa impluwensya sang makahulubog nga ilimnon
Gin-aresto ang American professional golfer nga si Tiger Woods matapos ini ginpahayag nga nagamaneho sang iya salakyan nga yara sa impluwensya sang makahulubog nga ilimnon sang ini ang naulamid sa isa ka vehicular accident.
Suno kay Martin County Sheriff John Budensiek, una nga gin-alegar si Woods nga nakainom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon matapos ini nakitaan sang senyales sang impairment, apang nag-negatibo ang resulta sang iya Breathalyzer test.
Ginapatihan nga may gin-inom nga bulong ukon droga si Woods kag nagpamalibad ini nga magpaidalum sa urine test rason nga gilayun ini nga gin-aresto.
Nahibaluan nga ini na ang ikaapat nga kahigayunan nga gin-aresto ang amo nga professional golfer bangud man sa vehicular accident sang una ini nga gin-aresto sang 2017 matapos ini naggamit sang sala nga kombinasyon sang painkillers.
Human rights groups, ginpakamalaot ang bag-o nga polisa nga biological females lamang ang mahimo maka-intra sa women’s category sang Olympic sports
Ginpakamalaot sang human rights groups ang bag-o nga polisa sang International Olympic Committee nahanungod sa gender testing kun sa diin nagtuga ini sang nagkalain-lain nga debate sa mga nagpamatok sini.
Suno sa mga nagasuporta, importante ini agud mapabilin nga patas ang kompetisyon sa women’s sports paagi sa paglimit sang mga partisipante sa “biological female” lamang nga mga atleta.
Suno naman sa mga naga-kritiko sini, kulang ini sang basehan kag mahimo makaguba sa mga atleta, ilabi na sa mga pamatan-on.
May iban nga nagapati nga ini isa ka porma sang diskriminasyon kag may impluwensya sang pulitika.
May nagakabalaka man nahanungod sa epekto sini sa mga menor de edad kag sa mga atleta nagikan sa Africa kag Asia.
Sa matandaan nga ini nga mando nagikan kay US President Donald Trump antes patigayunon ang 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.
Limitahan lamang sa biological females ang mahimo maka-intra sa women’s category sang Olympic sports umpisa sa 2028.
Gin-anunsyo ini sang International Olympic Committee (IOC) apang ginklaro nga ang eligibility ang dapat nga tumuron paagi sa “once-in-a-lifetime” sex test.
Tikang ini sang organisasyon agud nga malikawan nga mapa-compete sa amo nga kategorya ang transgender women kag ang may differences in sexual development (DSD) nga nakaagi sa male puberty.
Mangin epektibo ini nga polisa sa Los Angeles Olympics kag sa masunod nga mga edisyon sang Olympiada.
Suno kay IOC president Kirsty Coventry, ginbalay ini nga policy sa pagpanguna sang medical experts.
May istrikto nga screening nga himuon agud nga ma-detect ang SRY gene – ang sex-determining region Y gene – nga parte sang Y chromosome kag rason sang pag-develop sang male characteristics.
Ang mga atleta nga mag-negative sa SRY gene amo ang maka-satisfy sa eligibility criteria para sa kumpetisyon sa female category.
Pananglitan naman nga indi makapasar sa test ang atleta, mahimo sila malakip sa iban nga classifications kun sa diin sila kuwalipikado.
Antes sini nga anunsyo, matandaan nga madugay man nga tion nga wala nag-apply ang IOC sang universal rule sa transgender participation sa Olympics.
Sang 2021, nagmandu pa ini sa international federations nga maghimo sang ila kaugalingon nga guidelines.
Sa Paris 2024 Olympics, madumduman nga nabukaran liwat ang kontrobersiya bangud sa duha ka boxers nga nag-compete sa female categories nga pareho man nga nagdaog sang gold medal sa ila weight classes.
Antes sa Olympics, gin-ban sila sa world championships paagi sa desisyon sang ila tagsa ka international federation bangud sa resulta sang gender eligibility test.#
Alex Eala, nataktak na sa Miami Open matapos ginlutos sang isa na naman ka Czech player
Napaslawan si Alex Eala nga mapanas ang “sumpa” batok sa mga kasumpong sini halin sa Czech Republic.
Natapos ang kampanya sang Pinay tennis star sa round of 16 sang Miami Open sa Florida, USA sa kamot sang isa na naman ka Czech player nga si world No.
Ginbudlayan si Eala nga makakuha sang momentum.
Nagtakop ang hampang sa skor nga 6-0, 6-2 pabor sa French Open finalist.
Ini na ang pang-13 nga tion nga nakaatubang si Eala sa isa ka Czech tennis player halin sang nangin professional siya sa amo nga sport sang 2020, kag tubtub subong, wala pa ini nakaagi daog batok sa ila.
Subong lamang nga tuig, pangatlo na niya ini nga kalutusan sa kamot sang Czech matapos ginpierde man nanday Tereza Valentova sa round of 64 sang Qatar Open kag Linda Noskova sa round of 16 sang Indian Wells Open.
Nagapang-29 subong si Eala sa WTA rankings, apang ginalantaw nga maganubo ini sa pwesto matapos nga 120 puntos lang ang na-cover siya sang iya Miami run subong nga tuig sa 390 points nga iya naganar sang nakalab-ot siya sa final four sa amo man nga tournament sang nagligad nga tuig.
14 player sa Round of 16 sang Miami Open
Magaatubang si Alex Eala sa isa ka eksperyensyado nga Czech player nga si Karolina Muchova sa Round of 16 sang Miami Open sa Florida, Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Si Linette amo anay ang naglutos kay world no.
Ang atubangon ni Eala nga si Muchova amo ang 13th seed sa tournament kag nagapang-14 naman sa latest world rankings.
Nakasulod si Muchova sa quarterfinals sang apat tanan ka Grand Slams lakip na ang pagtapos bilang runner-up sa 2023 French Open.
Sa unofficial record, sa 12 ka beses nga naka-atubang si Eala sa Czech players sa iya karera, wala pa ini nakaagi daog.
29 nga Pinay tennis player nga nakaganar naman ini sang eksperyensya ilabi na sa Miami Open sang nagligad nga tuig nga amo ang nagpreparar sa iya sa mabudlay nga mga hampang.#
Filipinas, nag-qualify nga makahampang liwat sa FIFA Women’s World Cup
Gin-ulan sang pagpanginbulahan ang Philippine National Women’s Football team matapos nag-qualify sa ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga tion nga makahampang sa FIFA Women’s World Cup.
Natabo ini matapos ginlutos sang Filipinas ang Uzbekistan, 2-0, sa eliminator round sa AFC Women’s Asian Cup sa Gold Coast Stadium sa Australia.
Naka-goal para sa Philippine team si Angie Beard sa ika-47 nga minuto, kag singko minutos ang nakaligad, ginsundan ini sang goal ni Jackie Sawicki.
Pareho nga si Jael-Marie Guy ang nag-assist agud nga maka-skor ang duha ka players sang Filipinas, kag siya man ang gindeklarar nga Player of the Match.
Gindayaw ni Filipinas head coach Mark Torcaso si Guy sa pagpanikasog sini nga mapadaog ang team sa amo sini kadaku nga mga hampang.
Ginpasalamatan man sini ang kada myembro sa ila kabakod apisar pila ka beses sila nga nalutos sa tournament lakip na ang 7-0 nga score sang ginpierde sila sang Japan.
Para naman kay Guy, ang ila pagbalik sa World Cup amo ang bunga sang teamwork kag kapisan sang kada isa samtang yara sa pitch.
Sang 2023 ang debut sang Filipinas sa FIFA Women’s World Cup.
Magluwas sa ila, naka-qualify man para sa World Cup sa Brazil sa 2027 ang Australia, Japan, China, South Korea, kag ang North Korea.
ONE DOWN: Alex Eala, nag-abante na sa Round of 32 sang Miami Open
Nag-abante na ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa masunod nga round sa Miami Open matapos ginlutos ang German veteran nga si Laura Siegemund sa Round of 64 matchup subong nga kaagahon.
Naglawig sang tatlo ka oras kag 20 minutos antes dalayon nga napierde ni Eala ang world no.
Nagapang-29 subong si Eala sa official rankings kag pang-50 naman sa live rankings.
Ginpakita sini liwat ang iya trademark fighting spirit apisar nga ginkabos ini sa first set.
Suno sa iya, kun may natun-an man siya sa iya eksperyensya sang nagligad nga tuig, ini amo ang mas pag-improve sa pisikal nga aspeto.
Sang 2025, nangin bantog si Eala matapos ang historic run sa Miami.
Ginlutos sini ang tatlo ka Grand Slam champions lakip na si World No.
50 Magda Linette ang atubangon ni Eala sa masunod nga round.
Ang Miami amo ang pang-walo na nga tournament ni Eala subong nga 2026 kasunod sang iya stints sa ASB Classic, Australian Open, Philippine Women’s Open, Abu Dhabi Open, Qatar Open, Dubai Tennis Championships, kag Indian Wells Open.
Importante ang mangin resulta sang hampang para kay Eala bangud na-reset na ang 390 points nga iya nakuha sang 2025 kag maga-reflect na sa masunod nga WTA rankings.
Gilas Pilipinas Women, nadala pauli ang kadalag-an batok sa Colombia
Wala nagpauli nga wala sang dala nga kadalag-an ang Gilas Pilipinas Women sa FIBA Women’s World Cup 2026 Qualifiers matapos malab-ot sang mga ini ang makasaysayan nga pagkadaog batok sa Colombia sa score nga 74-59, sa Astroballe sa France.
Ini ang una nga kadalag-an sang Pilipinas batok sa non-Asian team sa kasaysayan sang women’s program.
Nag-panguna sa makasaysayan nga pagkadaog si Kacey Dela Rosa nga nakakuha sang 25 points kag 19 rebounds.
Naghatag man sang dako nga suporta si Sugapong nga may 21 points, 3 assists, 2 rebounds, kag 2 steals samtang nagtapos ang Pilipinas sa ila campaign nga may record nga 1-4.
Antes matabo ang pagkadaog sang Gilas, ginpierde anay sang mga ini ang South Korea sa score nga 105-74, agud tapuson ang ila qualifying run.
Ini kasunod sang bag-o lang gin-aprubahan nga provisional fare increases nga nag-umpisa sang Sabado, Marso 14.
Ini nga updated guide nagasunod sa order nga gin-isyu sang Marso 13 nga naga-grant sang fare adjustments para sa klasipikasyon sa provincial public utility buses kag agud masiguro nga patas ukon palareho ang implementasyon sang tanan nga provincial bus operators kag sa tanan nga ruta.
Ang luxury buses ang may mas mataas nga adjustment nga P0.45 per kilometer.
Sa mga nagasakay naman sa ordinary nga provincial buses, may isaka nga P1.00 sa base fare kag magadugang sang P0.30 sa kada masunod nga kilometro.
Natabo ang fare adjustment samtang nagalala ang tensyon sa Middle East kun sa diin apektado naman ang presyuhanay sang gatong sa global market.
Pananglitan may makit-an nga violation ang mga pasahero, mahimo ini i-report sa LTFRB.
Nonito Donaire, 43, gintumba sang Japanese rising star nga si Riku Masuda
Nalutos ang 43-anyos nga Pinoy boxing legend nga si Nonito ‘The Filipino Flash’ Donaire sa kamot sang Japanese rising star nga si Riku Masuda sa WBA bantamweight title eliminator sa Yokohama, Japan.
Apisar puno sang kumpyansa nga nagsaka sa ring ang four-division champion, nagapabatyag na ang edad sini.
Natumba ini sa ika-pito nga round paagi sa straight left sang Japanese boxer.
Sa 1:12 mark sang ika-walo nga round, ginpa-untat na ang hampang.
Mas manubo si Donaire sa tatlo ka mga scorecard sang gin-untat ang amo nga sambuwa.
Pananglitan nagdaog si Donaire, mahatagan kuntani siya sang kahigayunan nga makasaka sa boxing ring para sa world title.
Ini na ang pang-apat nga tion nga nalutos si Donaire sa iya lima ka ulihi nga hampang, lakip na ang second round technical knockout batok kay undisputed bantamweight champion Naoya Inoue sa ila rematch sang 2022.
Gina-uyatan ni Donaire ang 43-10 (28 KOs) nga record.
Kilala anay ini bilang pound-for-pound fighter sang 2010s kag ginkilala nga Fighter of the Year sang 2012.
Nakahimo siya sang rekord bilang pinakatigulang nga bantamweight world champion sang Mayo 2021 sa edad nga 38-anyos sang gintumba sini si Nordine Oubaali sa ikaapat nga round agud nga makuha ang WBC title.
Na-retain sini amo ang amo nga titulo paagi sa isa pa ka fourth-round knockout batok sa isa pa ka Pinoy boxer nga si Raymart Gaballo pito ka bulan ang makaligad sa iya hampang kay Oubaali.
Japan, ginlutos ang Filipinas, 7-0, sa AFC Women’s Asian Cup q’finals
Napaslawan ang Philippine Women’s Football Team nga maka-score batok sa powerhouse team nga Japan sa ila nga pag-atubangay sa quarterfinals sang AFC Women’s Asian Cup 2026.
Nagtakop ang hampang sa Stadium Australia sa Sydney, 7-0, rason nga nag-abante na ang Japanese squad sa semifinals sang tournament kun sa diin natalana sini nga atubangon ang South Korea.
Magluwas diri, sigurado na ang pwesto sang Japan sa FIFA Women’s World Cup sa masunod nga tuig sa Brazil.
Ini na ang ika-10 nga tuig nga magahampang ang Japan sa World Cup.
Nagdaog sila sa amo nga global sports event sang 2011.
Sa pihak nga bahin, bisan na-blangko sang mga Japanese players, buhi pa ang paglaum sang Philippine team nga makabalik sa World Cup Stage.
Matabo ini kun malutos nila ang Uzbekistan sa play-in match sa Marso 19 sa Gold Coast Stadium sa Queensland, Australia.
Nalutos ang Uzbekistan sa kamot sang South Korea, 6-0, sa quarterfinals sang Sabado.
Isa ka bes lang nga nagdaog ang Pilipinas sa Asian Cup sang ginlutos sini ang Iran, 2-0, sa group stage.
NBA champion kag Hall of Famer nga si Dwight Howard, magaretiro na sa professional basketball
Suno pa sa anay basketball superstar, panahon na para magpadayon kag ihatag sa masunod nga henerasyon ang iya nahibaluan sa nasambit nga sport.
Suno kay Howard, may ara pa siya kuntani sang mahatag sa basketball, apang nagapati siya nga ang iya bag-o nga responsibilidad amo ang pagpaambit sang iya eksperyensya kag nahibaluan sa masunod nga henerasyon sang mga manug-hampang.
Nahibaluan nga nagsugod ang karera ni Howard sa National Basketball Association sang ginpili siya bilang first overall pick sang Orlando Magic sa 2004 NBA Draft.
Isa sa iya pinakadako nga kadalag-an amo ang pagdaog sang 2020 NBA Finals upod sa Los Angeles Lakers.
Nakabaton man ini sang tatlo ka Defensive Player of the Year awards, kag napilian bilang All-Star kag All-NBA player sang walo ka beses.
Sa kabug-osan sang iya karera sa NBA, nakarekord si Howard sang 19,485 points, 14,627 rebounds, kag 2,228 blocks, nga nagapakita sang iya dako nga kontribusyon sa basketball antes sini ginpasapubliko ang iya pagretiro.
Bam Adebayo sang Miami Heat, nabreak ang rekord ni Kobe Bryant bilang second highest scorer sa kasaysayan sang NBA
Nabreak ni Bam Adebayo sang Miami Heat ang rekord ni Kobe Bryant bilang ikaduha nga pinakamataas nga puntos sa kasaysayan sang National Basketball Association (NBA) matapos makatipon sang 83 points sa ila 150–129 nga kadalag-an kontra Washington Wizards.
Ang performance ni Adebayo ang naglapaw sa 81 puntos nga ginrekord ni Bryant para sa Los Angeles Lakers batok sa Toronto sang 2006.
Sa pagsugod pa lang sang hampang nangin maayo na ang performance ni Adebayo sa first quarter kun sa diin nakahimo na ini sang 31 points.
Pag-abot sang halftime, may 43 puntos na ini nga nakuha kag ginpadayon pa gid ang mainit nga scoring sa third quarter kun sa diin nagdugang ini sang 19 points agud maglab-ot ini sa 62 points.
Sa fourth quarter, ginlampasan ni Adebayo ang rekord ni Bryant pinaagi sa duha ka free throws nga nagdala sa iya total nga 83 points.
Bangod sini, madamo sang naghinugyaw kag ginpalakpakan ini sang mga fans sa Kaseya Center sa Miami.
Suno kay Adebayo, ginakabig sini nga espesyal nga hitabo ini sa iya karera kag nagpasalamat man ini sa iya mga ka-updanan sa team kag coach nga naghatag sang oportunidad sa iya agud malab-ot ang makasaysayan nga performance sa National Basketball Association.
Filipinas, nag-abante na sa AFC Asian Cup quarterfinals
Mas nagahilapit ang Philippine women’s national football team sa handum sini nga makabalik sa FIFA World Cup stage matapos nga naka-abante na sa 2026 AFC Asian Cup quarterfinals.
Nakuha sang Filipinas ang spot sa quarterfinals matapos ginlutos sang Japan ang Vietnam, 4-0.
Bangud sa amo nga resulta, nalakip ang team sang Pilipinas sa two best third placers sa tournament.
Matandaan nga duha ka sunod-sunod nga kalutusan ang naangkon sang Filipinas sa kamot sang powerhouse teams nga Australia kag South Korea antes ini nakadaog batok sa Iran, 2-0.
1-0-2 ang win-draw-loss record sang Filipinas sa Group C nga indi pa bastante agud nga makasulod sila sa quarterfinals, gani nga nagdepende ang ila kapalaran sa mangin resulta sang hampang sang iban nga teams.
Ang senaryo nga ginlantaw amo nga dapat lutuson sang Japan ang Vietnam sang may at least tatlo ka goals matapos nga ginlutos sang Uzbekistan ang Bangladesh sang Lunes, 4-0.
8 Japanese side ang paglaum sang Pilipinas matapos ang 4–0 victory batok sa mga Vietnamese subong nga Martes.
Talakladon ang banas sang Pilipinas bangud ang Japan mismo ang atubangon sini sa quarterfinals sa Marso 15.
Pananglitan magdaog ang Philippine team, magasulod sila sa semifinals kag makakuha naman sang spot sa FIFA World Cup sa 2027.
Kun malutos naman, magadiretso ang team sa play-in matches.#
Atubangon sang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala ang world no.
14 kag Czech player nga si Linda Noskova sa 4th round sang 2026 Indian Wells Open.
Naka-schedule ang hampang bwas sa main court sang Indian Wells alas otso sa gab-i oras sa California, USA, ukon posible 11:00 – 12:00 sa udto (Philippine time).
Nakakit-anay na anay sanday Eala kag Noskova sa 2020 French Open Juniors quarterfinals kun sa diin nagdaog ang Pinay tennis star.
Nakasulod si Eala sa round of 16 matapos ang walkover 6-2, 2-0 win batok kay world no.
4 Coco Gauff nga nag-untat sa paghampang sa round of 32 bangud sa injury sa iya nga kamot.
Sa Instagram story sang 21-anyos nga American player, ginpaathag sini nga indi niya gusto matapos ang hampang sa amo nga paagi.
Gintinguhaan sini nga makahampang bisan sa pagsakit sa iya wala nga butkon, apang samtang nagadugay, nagalala rason nga ginpakamaayo sang reigning French Open champion nga mag-untat na lang.
Ini pa lamang ang ikaduha nga tion sa karera ni Gauff nga nag-untat ini sa paghampang bangud sa injury.
Nagpadala man sang mensahe sang “good luck” si Gauff kay Eala nga nakasumpong man sini sang nagligad nga bulan sa Dubai Open.#
Filipinas, ginlutos ang Iran, 2-0, sa AFC Women’s Asian Cup 2026
Buhi pa ang paglaum sang Philippine women’s national football team nga makasulod sa quarterfinals sang AFC Women’s Asian Cup 2026 matapos ginlutos ang Iran sa katapusan nga group stage match, 2-0.
Sa hampang sa Gold Coast, Australia, naka-goal para sa Filipinas si Sara Eggesvik sa ika-29 nga minuto kag ginsundan ni Chandler McDaniel sa ika-82 nga minuto.
Ini ang una nga kadalag-an sang team sa tournament matapos ang magkasunod sang kalutusan sa kamot sang powerhouse teams nga Australia kag South Korea.
Nagapangatlo na subong ang Filipinas sa Group A nga may tres puntos, apang kinahanglan pa nga hulaton ang resulta sang duha ka iban pa nga grupo.
Ang duha ka best third placers sa tournament amo ang maga-upod sa top two teams sa kada tatlo ka grupo sa quarterfinals.
Didto kag maga-compete sila para sa anum ka spot para sa confederation sa 2027 FIFA Women’s World Cup.
Sa NBA: Boston Celtics, may mabaskog nga lineup sa pagbalik ni Jayson Tatum batok sa Dallas Mavericks
Posible nga magbag-o ang lineup sang Boston Celtics sa masunod nila nga hampang batok sa Dallas Mavericks bangud posible na nga makabalik ang superstar nga si Jayson Tatum.
Gin-upgrade si Tatum sa status nga “questionable” sa injury report matapos ang iya recovery halin sa nauna nga Achilles tendon injury.
Nagbalik na ini sa training halin sang Pebrero 9 kag aktibo na sa 5-on-5 scrimmages nga nagsugod sang All-Star break.
Suno sa iya teammate nga si Derrick White, maayo na ang kondisyon ni Tatum kag kaangay nga handa na ini nga maghampang.
Bisan wala si Tatum sa daku nga bahin sang season, yara gihapon sa ikaduha nga pwesto ang Celtics sa Eastern Conference.
Para naman sa Mavericks, nagbalik ang rookie nga si Cooper Flagg matapos ang wala ini makahampang bangud sa foot injury.
Apisar nga napierdi ang Dallas sa ila nagligad nga hampang batok sa Orlando, nagpakita naman ini sang maayo nga performance.
Alex Eala kag Coco Gauff, posible mag-atubangay liwat sa Indian Wells Open
Posible mag-atubangay liwat ang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala kag ang world No.
Antes ini matabo, atubangon anay ni Eala ang winner sa tunga nanday Zhang Shuai sang China kag Dayana Yastremska sang Ukraine.
Sa pihak nga bahin, makasumpong naman ni Gauff ang winner sa tunga sang qualifier kag Bianca Andreescu sang Canada.
Pareho ang bracket ni Eala kag ni Gauff, gani nga balantayan ang ila pagkit-anay liwat pananglitan pareho man nila malutos ang una nila nga mga kasumpong.
Katapusan nga nagkit-anay sanday Eala kag Gauff sa Dubai Tennis Championships kun sa diin gindominar sang American player ang hampang, 6-0, 6-2.
Ginauyatan ni Gauff ang rekord bilang two-time Grand Slam Champion, apang todo-dayaw man ini kay Eala ilabi na sa kadamuon sang fans nga mahakot sini sa venue.
Kun matapos na sa Indian Wells Open, maga-compete ang world no.
32 nga Filipina star sa Miami Open ukon ang tournament kun sa diin nangin bantog ang iya pangalan bangud nagsulod siya bilang wildcard apang ginpanglutos sini ang tatlo ka Grand Slam champions sang nagligad nga tuig.
Magadiretso sa second round sang BNP Paribas Open sa Indian Wells ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala matapos ini nga makakuha sang first-round bye sa prestihiyoso nga Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) 1000 tournament.
Ang nasambit nga tournament ang pagahiwatun sa Marso 4 tubtub 15 sa California.
Matandaan nga ang 20-anyos nga si Eala ang yara sa career-high nga ika-31 sa WTA rankings.
Antes sini, naghampang anay si Eala sa WTA 1000 Dubai Tennis Championships kun sa diin nalutos isya sa quarterfinals batok kay Coco Gauff.
Sa karun, yara na sa United States si Eala kag nagapreparar para sa iya palaabuton nga hampang.
FIBA: Gilas, ginlutos sang New Zealand sa WC Asian Qualifiers
Ginkabos ang Gilas Pilipinas nga malutos ang New Zealand Tall Blacks, 66-69, sa second window sang FIBA Basketball World Cup 2027 Asian Qualifiers sa Mall of Asia Arena subong nga gab-i, Pebrero 26.
Ini ang una nga kalutusan sang Philippine National Team sa qualifiers matapos ang 2-0 sweep batok sa Guam sa first window.
Nangin top scorer para sa New Zealand si Max Darling nga may 11 puntos, samtang may double-double performance si Sam Mennenga nga may 10 points kag 14 rebounds.
Sa Gilas, nagpanguna si Dwight Ramos nga may 16 points kag eight rebounds, kag may 15 points naman si CJ Perez.
Ginbudlayan naman nga makapuntos si Justin Brownlee nga naka-kuwatro lamang sa pagtakop sang hampang.
2-1 na subong ang record sang Gilas sa Group A.
Sunod nga atubangon ni Coach Tim Cone kag sang national team ang Australia sa Domingo sa amo man gihapon nga venue.
Nagsaka naman ang record sang Kiwis sa 1-2.
Gary Valenciano, padayon pa nga naga-recover sa cellulitis
Pure Energy” Gary Valenciano nga sa karon nagapadayon ini sa pagpabulong sa cellulitis.
Ang cellulitis isa ka impeksyon sa panit sang tawo nga naghalin sa bacteria.
Nagakatabo ini sa mga magamay nga pilas kag kagat sang insekto nga ginsudlan sang mikrobyo.
Suno kay Gary, napilas ang nawala sini nga tiil rason nga may yara sang nagsulod nga bacteria gani kinahanglan sini nga magpaidalom sa nagkalain-lain nga test.
Apisar nga madamo sang test ang kinahanglan sini nga himuon, na-amat-amat na ini nga nagabalik sa iya nakaandan nga gina-obra.
Dala na diri ang pag-rekord sang podcast kag makipag-angot sa mga nagakalain-lain nga personalidad sa industriya paagi man sa “honest, soul-searching conversations sa ila nga ‘shaking seasons.’
Nahibaluan nga sang tuig 2018, na-diagnose man si Gary sa sakit nga may bara ini sa iya wala nga artery kag nagpaidalom man ini sa isa ka emergency cardiac bypass surgery.
Sa amo man nga tuig, nahibaluan sini nga may ara ini sang cancer sa kidney gani nagpaidalom man ini sa isa ka partial nephrectomy kun sa diin kinahanglan nga kuhaon ang kidney sini nga may cancer.
Nancer-free ini pagkatapos sang amo nga operasyon.
Kilala man si Gary bilang aktibo sa iya Christian ministry kag inspirational speaking nga permi sini ginadala sa iya musika nga ginapakigbahin sa iban nga tawo.
Sa NBA: Kevin Durant, ginpangunahan ang Houston Rockets sa paglutos sa Charlotte Hornets
Sa National Basketball Association, ginpangunahan ni Kevin Durant ang Houston Rockets sa paglutos sa Charlotte Hornets.
Ini matapos ang iya duha ka free throws sa nabilin nga 3.2 seconds para makumpleto sini ang 35 points.
Nagtakop ang hampang sa skor nga 105-101.
Samtang, ginpangunahan naman ni Grant Williams ang Hornets nga may ara sang 20 points.
Ang Hornets nga nagdaog sang 11 sa 12 sini nga hampang bag-o ang All Star break, nagpakita sang ila abilidad sa umpisa kag nakakuha sang 11 ka puntos nga abanse sa una nga bahin sang second quarter.
Naglagas naman ang Rockets sa ika-apat nga quarter sang ginhimo ni Alperen Sengun ang spinning reverse batok sa 7-foot center nga si Ryan Kalkbrenner kag ginsunod naman sini ang baby hook shot agud makuha sang Houston ang pinakadako nga abanse sa score.
4 Coco Gauff ang Filipino fans nga padayunon ang pagsuporta kay Alex Eala nga suno sa iya nagdala sang bag-o nga “demographic” sa tennis.
Kabahin ini sang sabat sang two-time Grand Slam Champion sa interview sa Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) matapos ginlutos si Eala sa quarterfinal round sang Dubai tennis championships, 6-2, 6-0.
Gintawag man ni Gauff ang audience nga “home crowd” bangud sa tuman ka damo nga mga Pilipino nga nagsuporta sa world no.
47 — nga kaangay man sa natabo sa nauna nga mga hampang sini indi lamang sa Dubai kundi mangin sa Australian Open kag sa iban pa nga pungsod.
Antes ang ila pag-atubangay ni Alex sa quarterfinal clash subong nga gab-i, nag-viral man video ni Gauff nga nag-sorry sa audience sa Dubai bangud naglawig ang iya hampang kag nadugayan sila sa paghulat sa Pinay tennis star.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa Filipino tennis fans nga nagpalakpak kag nag-cheer para sa iya samtang wala pa si Alex sa court.
Abante na si Gauff sa semifinals kun sa diin posible nga atubangon sini si world no.
Ang Dubai Tennis Championships amo naman ang ikaanum nga tournament ni Eala subong nga tuig.#
Nagtapos na ang kampanya sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa Dubai Tennis Championships matapos nalutos sa quarterfinals sa kamot sang world no.
Apisar sang matunog nga suporta sang Pinoy tennis fans sa Center Court, ginbudlayan ang 20-anyos nga rising star nga makakuha sang momentum batok sa two-time Grand Slam champion nga American player.
Sa imbukada pa lamang nga set, wala na nag-uyang sang tyempo si Gauff kag ginpaulan ang 26 points batok sa 11 nga nahimo ni Eala.
Ginpasagunsunan pa sini sang puntos sa second set, 4-0, tubtub nga nakapuntos na gid man si Eala nga amo ang nagbuhi sang paglaum sang fans matapos ang 53 minutos sini sa court.
Apisar nagka-problema si Gauff sa service, tuman naman ka ulihi para kay Eala nga maka-recover.
Gintawag naman ni Gauff nga “home crowd” ang nagsuporta kay Eala bangud sa tuman ka damo nga Pinoy nga nagpungko sa venue.
Gin-engganyo sini ang fans nga magpadayon sa pagsuporta sa Filipina player.
Ang Dubai Tennis Championships amo ang ikaanum nga tournament ni Eala subong nga tuig.
Nagapang-47 subong ang Pinay tennis ace sa world rankings.
Nakuha sini ang iya isahanon nga WTA 125 crown sa Guadalajara sa Mexico sang nagligad nga tuig.#
Manny Pacquiao, magabalik sa ring sa Abril kontra sa Russian boxer nga si Ruslan Provodnikov
Magabalik sa ring sini nga bulan sang Abril si former WBC welterweight champion Manny Pacquiao.
Sa mataandan nga ang ulihi nga hampang ni Pacquiao natabo sang Hunyo 2025 batok kay WBC welterweight champion Mario Barrios kag nagtapos ini sa majority draw.
Ang pagkapierde sini sa ulihi nga hampang ang nagdala sa record ni Pacquiao sa 62-9-2.
Pagahiwaton ang hampang sini sa Thomas & Mack Center, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA nga nangin venue na sang madamo nga kilala nga boxing competition sang dekada 1990 bag-o paman ginpatindog ang MGM Grand Garden Arena sa nasambit nga pungsod.
Si Provodnikov nga 42 anyos ang edad ang ulihi nga naghampang sang Hunyo 2016 ang anay gin-pierde sang former unified light welterweight champion John Molina Jr.
Nag-abante na si Alex Eala sa third round sang Dubai Tennis Championships matapos ang daku nga upset win batok sa world no.
8 player nga si Jasmine Paolini, 6-1, 7-6.
Ini nga Italian player ang nagkampyon anay sa amo man nga Dubai tournament kag subong ginakabig nga sixth seed.
Suno kay Eala, nalipay siya nga nalampuwasan niya ang isa ka player nga sulod sa Top 10, kag daku na ini nga achievement para sa iya.
Pahayag sini, puno sang mga Pilipino ang stadium, kag nakakuha siya sang inspirasyon nga ihatag ang tanan sa hampang bangud nakahibalo siya nga madamo ang nagapangamuyo para sa iya.
Tapos sabi ko ilan kaya sa inyo ‘yung nagdadasal para sa akin?
So I really had to give everything I got,” pahayag sini kaangot sa makahalawat-hawat nga tiebreak.
Ang isahanon nga pro-title sang world no.
47 amo ang WTA 125 title nga iya nakuha sa Guadalajara, Mexico sang nagligad nga tuig.
Quentin Millora-Brown, indi makaupod sa hampang sang Gilas Pilipinas
Ginkumpirma ni Coach Tim Cone nga indi man maghampang si Quentin Millora-Brown para sa Gilas Pilipinas para sa nagahilapit nga second window sang FIBA Basketball World Cup Asian qualifiers.
Wala sang ginhatag nga rason si Cone kun ngaa wala ang 25-anyos nga 6-foot-10 center, apang suno sa iya, ginpili ni Brown nga indi mag-upod sa Gilas sa hampang batok sa New Zealand kag sa Australia.
Matandaan nga malawig ang eligibility process nga gin-agyan sang Samahan ng Basketbol ng Pilipinas, kag pila ka bulan na ang nagligad, naaprubahan na ini nga makahampang kuntani bilang local player.
Ini nga former UP Fighting Maroons big man ang eligible naman bilang Asian import sa mga liga sa luwas sang pungsod, kag subong nagahampang siya para sa Chiba Jets sa Japan’s B.League.
Ginkumpirma man ni Cone nga ginpasulod sa training si Justine Baltazar nga amo ang posible magbulos sa national team.
Ini ang iya mangin una nga hampang sa Gilas halin sang 2021 FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament sa idalom anay ni head coach Tab Baldwin.
Magluwas kay Millora-Brown, kumpirmado nga indi man makahampang ang 7-foot-3 center nga si Kai Sotto para sa Gilas subong nga window bangud bag-o lang ini nag-ayo sa iya nga injury.
2-0 subong ang record sang Pilipinas kag nagapanguna sa Group A.
Target sang team nga maka-secure sang ikaapat nga sunod-sunod nga appearance sa World Cup.#
Tennis: Alex Eala, nag-abante na sa second round sa Dubai
Nagdiretso na ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa second round sang 2026 Dubai Tennis Championships matapos nga nakaangkon sang injury ang iya kasumpong.
Sa first set sang hampang, daog si Eala batok kay Hailey Baptiste, 6-4, apang nakabawi ang American player sa second frame, 1-0, antes ini nagkinahanglan sang treatment bangud sa abdomen pain.
Suno kay Eala, wala sang bisan sin-o nga player nga luyag mag-abante sa masunod nga round paagi sini.
Nagalaum siya nga mangin maayo ang kondisyon ni Baptiste nga subong nagapang-39 sa world rankings.
Sunod nga atubangon ni Eala si World no.
8 Jasmine Paolini sang Italya nga amo ang sixth seed sa amo nga tournament.
Gilas, maga-umpisa na sa paghanas sa Lunes para sa FIBA World Cup 2027 Asian Qualifiers
Ginalauman nga maga-umpisa na ang Gilas Pilipinas sa pag-practice sa Lunes para sa FIBA World Cup 2027 Asian Qualifiers.
Ginahulat pa subong ni Coach Tim Cone ang pag-abot sang pila ka players sang national team halin sa South Korea kag sa Japan.
Duha ka home games ang balantayan nga amo ang hampang batok sa New Zealand sa Pebrero 26, kag ang hampang batok sa Australia sa Marso 1.
Una nga magatingob ang team sa una nga practice sessions sa Pasig City antes magsaylo sa Inspire Sports Academy sa Calamba, Laguna para sa training camp.
Lakip sa ginahulat subong amo ang Asian reinforcements nga sanday Carl Tamayo kag Kevin Quiambao halin sa Korean Basketball League kag Dwight Ramos, AJ Edu kag Quentin Millora-Brown halin naman sa Japan B.League.
50-50 naman ang status ni Kai Sotto nga bag-o lang gid nakabalik sa paghampang sa luwas sang pungsod matapos ang ginsuprer nga knee injury.
Pangunahan sang three-time PBA Best Import nga si Justin Brownlee ang Pilipinas sa duha ka natalana nga home games.
Ginalauman sang Filipina golfer nga si Rianne Malixi ang isa ka mapag-on nga pagbalik sa iya sports career subong nga tuig 2026 samtang maga-compete ini sa Women’s Amateur Asia-Pacific (WAAP) Championship sa New Zealand.
Ang 18 anyos nga Filipino player, nga sa karon ika-21 sa World Amateur Golf Ranking, nakaagom sang back injury sang 2025 nga nakaapekto sa iya performance, lakip na diri ang pagkapaslaw sini nga maka-podium sa Southeast Asian Games.
Pagkatapos sang pila ka bulan nga therapy kag rehabilitasyon, nagpakita sang pagbangon si Malixi kag nangin runner-up pa ini sa Espirito Santo Trophy kag nagdaog sang iya una nga U.S.
Sa iya ika-anom nga pagpasakop sa Women’s Amateur Asia-Pacific (WAAP), nagalaom ini nga magadaog para sa iya pinakadako nga comeback sa iya amateur career.
Maatubang ni Malixi ang pila ka mga mabaskog nga mga kontra, lakip ang defending champion nga si Jeneath Wong sang Malaysia.
Nahibaluan nga wala pa sang Pilipina nga nakadaog sa Women’s Amateur Asia-Pacific (WAAP) halin sang pagsugod sini sang tuig 2018.
NBA: 4 players, ginpaguwa matapos nagluntad ang rambol sa hampang sang Pistons kag Hornets
Ginpagwa sa hampang ang apat ka players matapos ang rambol nga natabo sa tunga sang Detroit Pistons kag Charlotte Hornets.
Natabo ang insidente sa third quarter sang gin-foul ni Moussa Diabate sang Hornets si Jalen Duren sang Pistons.
Nag-initay ang duha tubtub nga naglapta na ang tensyon sa court kag may nga mga nagtapungulay.
Magluwas kanday Diabate kag Duren, ginpaguwa man sa game sanday Isaiah Stewart sang Pistons kag Miles Bridges sang Hornets.
Halin pa si Stewart sa bench apang nagdalagan ini pa-tunga agud mag-intra man sa tapungulay.
Nadugangan pa ang tensyon sa fourth quarter sang mismo na ang coach sang Hornets nga si Coach Charles Lee ang ginpaguwa sa hampang.
Ini matapos nga ginkaakig sini ang foul nga gintawag sang game official sa iya nga team, kag ginkinahanglan pa nga punggan sang iban nga coaching staff agud indi ini makapanakit.
Nagtakop ang amo nga game pabor sa Pistons, 110-104, nga amo ang nagtapos sang winning streak sang Hornets sa siyam ka mga hampang.
Nagapanguna subong ang Pistons sa Eastern Conference standings (39-13) samtang nagapabilin sa ika-10 ang Hornets (25-29).
Alex Eala, nalutos sa imbukada nga hampang sa Qatar Open
Nalutos ang Filipino tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa imbukada nga hampang sini sa Qatar Open kagab-i, Pebrero 9 (Manila time).
Ang nagpierde sa iya amo ang Czech teen qualifier nga si Tereza Valentova sa skor nga 7-6, 6-1.
Ini na ang pangaduha nga tion nga nalutos sini si Eala matapos ang Japan Open round of 32 sang nagligad nga Oktubre.
Magapahuway lang sang makadali ang 20-anyos nga Pinay player antes ang iya dugang nga hampang sa United Arab Emirates para sa Dubai Tennis Championships nga naka-schedule sa Pebrero 15 tubtub 21.
Kahapon sang ginkumpirma nga nagsaka na si Eala sa world no.
40 sa WTA ranking matapos nga nakadangat sa singles quarterfinal kag doubles semifinal sa WTA 500 Abu Dhabi Open sa UAE sang nagligad nga semana.
Obiena, bronze medalist sa Germany isa ka adlaw matapos nakuha ang indoor Asian title
Nabulsa sang Pinoy Olympian nga si Ernest John “EJ” Obiena ang bronze medal sa INIT Indoor Meeting Karlsruhe sa Germany.
Nakuha ni Obiena sa 5.70 meter-clearance sa isa lang ka attempt.
Nanguna naman sa kumpetisyon si Sondre Guttormsen sang Norway nga naka-clear sang 5.84m samtang nagpangaduha si Cole Walsh sang United States nga may 5.78m.
Isa ka adlaw antes sini nga kumpetisyon, nagkampyon si Obiena sa 12th Asian Indoor Athletics Championships sa China.
Espesyal ini nga kadalag-an para kay Obiena bangud ang amo nga gold medal amo na lang ang wala niya nakuha sa tanan nga major championships sa Asya.
Ginhandum kag gindumtan ini ni Obiena matapos nga nadag-an na ang mga kampyonato sa Asian Games, Southeast Asian Games, kag Asian Championships.
Ginapuntariya subong sang Pinoy pole vaulter ang 5.90m agud nga maka-qualify sa World Athletics Indoor Championships sa Poland sa Marso.
Protesta sa Winter Olympics sa Milan, Italy, nangin bayolente
Nangin bayolente ang protesta nga ginhimo sa Milan nga isa sa host cities sang 2026 Winter Olympic Games.
Sa una pa lamang nga adlaw sang kumpetisyon, linibo na ka mga tawo ang nagmartsa sa dalanon sa northern Italy agud nga magprotesta batok sa hinampang kag sa iban pa nga serye sang mga isyu.
Sang ulihi, may yara na sang nagpalupok kag naghaboy sang bato sa mga pulis.
Bangud sini, naggamit naman ang mga pulis sang tear gas kag water cannon.
Anum ka mga tawo ang gindakop sa amo nga protesta.
Gintawag naman ni Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni nga mga kaaway sang Italya ang mga nag-protesta.
Magluwas diri suno sa iya, may yara pa sang nagpang-lock sang railway cables agud nga indi makaandar ang mga tren.
Sa tinaga naman ni Deputy Prime Minister Matteo Salvini, mga “criminal” suno sa iya ang involved sa kumprontasyon sa Milan.
Matandaan nga antes sini, may mga Italian na nga nagprotesta batok sa presensya sang Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) sa ila pungsod antes ang Olympics.
Kontrobersyal ang ICE bangud sa duha ka magkasunod nga shooting incidents nga involved ang federal immigration authorities sa Minneapolis.
Yara sila sa Italya agud magbulig sa paghatag sang security assistance sa Winter Games.
Olympian Pole Vaulter nga si EJ Obiena, madinalag-un nga nakuha ang bulawan nga medalya sa Asian Indoor Athletics Championships sa Tianjin, China
Madinalag-un nga nakuha sang Olympian Pole Vaulter nga si EJ Obiena ang bulawan nga medalya sa Asian Indoor Athletics Championships sa Tianjin, China.
Natigayun sini nga nalampuwasan ang 5.70 meters sa final round sang kompetisyon.
Liwat nga nagpasimpalad si Obiena sa 5.80 meters, apang napaslawan ini sa iya tatlo ka attempts.
Nagasunod naman kay Obiena ang Bronze Medalist nga si Li Chenyang sang China, matapos nga na-clear ang 5.40 meters.
Sa karun, gina-uyatan ni Obiena ang Asian indoor record nga 5.93 meters, nga iya na-set sang Pebrero 2024 sa ‘Internationales Stadionfest’ (ISTAF) Indoor meet.
Paul George, suspendido sang 25 games kag madulaan sang P690M
Gindagdagan sang 25-game suspension si Philadelphia 76ers Forward Paul George bangud sa paglapas niya sa anti-drug program sang National Basketball Association.
Base sa naggwa nga impormasyon, gin-ako sini nga may gin-gamit siya nga substance kag maathag nga paglapas ini sa NBA rules.
Suno kay George, gin-gamit niya ang amo nga substance para sa iya nga mental health condition.
Wala naman gintuad kun ano ang iya gin-gamit nga substance.
Bangud sini, nagalab-ot sa $11.7M ukon ₱688.7M ang mabuhin sa iya sweldo antes siya makabalik sa hampang sa Marso 25.
Alex Eala, ginlutos sang Russian player sa Abu Dhabi quarterfinals
Nagtakop na ang kampanya sang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa singles sa Abu Dhabi Open.
11 nga Russian player nga si Ekaterina Alexandrova, 6-3, 6-3, sa ila nga quarterfinal match.
Antes sini, ginlutos anay sang 20-anyos nga Pinay sanday Zeynap Sönmez sang Turkey, 6-4, 6-3, kag Aliaksandra Sasnovich sang Belarus, 2-6, 6-4, 7-6(5) sa nauna nga duha ka mga round.
Kasunod sa iya Abu Dhabi campaign, padayunon sang world no.
45 nga Filipino pride ang iya kampanya sa Middle East paagi sa Qatar Open.
Impresibo ang pagbukas sang tuig para kay Eala nga nakasulod sa semis sang ASB Classic kag sa first round sa main draw sang Australian Open subong nga tuig.
Lebron, Stephen Curry kag Kevin Durant, liwat nga maga-updanay bilang team sa isa ka intense line-up para sa NBA All-Star Game
Liwat nga maga-updanay sanday Lebron James, Stephen Curry kag Kevin Durant bilang team sa isa ka intense line-up para sa NBA All-Star Game.
Ang bag-o nga estilo sang All-Star Game ang pagatungaon sa tatlo ka koponan, duwa sini ang ginalakipan sang mga player nga mga Amerikano kag ang isa naman ang ginalakipan sang mga international players.
Maga-kontrahanay ang tatlo ka koponan sa isa ka round-robin nga min-tournament kag ang duwa nga nagapanguna nga koponan ang magaatubangay sa final game.
Sanday James, Curry kag Durant nga tatlo ka haligi sang koponan sang USA nga nakakuha na sang gold medal sa 2024 Olympics sa Paris ang updan nanday Jaylen Brown sang Boston, Jalen Brunson sang New York Knicks, kag Kawhi Leonard sang Los Angeles Clippers.
Ang magakumpleto sang lineup nga ginatawag nga “USA Stripes” sanday Donovan Mitchell sang Cleveland kag Norman Powell sang Miami.
Ang isa pa ka koponan sang USA Stars ang pagalakipan nanday Cade Cunningham sang Detroit, Anthony Edwards sang Minnesota, kag Chet Holmgren sang Oklahoma City.
Upod man sa roster sanday Devin Booker sang Phoenix Suns, Tyrese Maxey sang Philadelphia, kag Jalen Duren sang Detroit.
Samtang pagapangunahan naman ang ”World” team ni Shai Gilgeous-Alexander sang Oklahoma City nga sa karon ang NBA Most Valuable player, upod man si Luka Dončić sang Los Angeles Lakers kag Victor Wembanyama sang San Antonio Spurs, pati man si Nikola Jokic sang Denver.
Pagahiwaton ang NBA All Star Game sa Los Angeles sa Pebrero 15.
Tim Cone, excited na sa pagbalik ni Kai Sotto sa Gilas
Nalangkag si Coach Tim Cone nga maka-upod na liwat si Kai Sotto sa mga hampang sang Gilas Pilipinas.
Ini matapos masobra isa ka tuig nga nagpahuway bangud sa injury partikular ang torn ACL (anterior cruciate ligament).
Magatipon liwat ang Gilas sa tunga-tunga subong nga bulan samtang ginapreparahan ang duha ka hampang diri sa Pilipinas sa 2027 FIBA Asian Qualifiers batok sa New Zealand sa Pebrero 26, kag batok sa Australia sa Marso 1.
Isa ka semana ang nagligad, nagbalik na si Sotto sa iya team nga Koshigaya Alphas sa Japan B.League 2025-26 season.
Siya man ang latest Filipino import nga nakasulod sa 1,000-point club sa B.League.
Nahibaluan nga sa Asian Qualifiers, nakaangkon ang Pilipinas sang back-to-back wins batok sa Guam kag tinguhaan nga mapabilin ini nga streak sa pag-atubang sa mas agresibo kag mas mataas nga mga kasumpong nga Tall Blacks kag Boomers.
Naghimo sang maragtas ang Spanish tennis player nga si Carlos Alcaraz bilang pinakabata nga male player nga nakakumpleto sang kampyonato sa Grand Slam matapos nga ginlutos sini si Novak Djokovic sa final sang Australian Open.
Apisar sang mahinay nga mag-umpisa sang hampang para kay Alcaraz, nakabawi ini sa masunod nga mga set kag ginbalabagan ang 38-anyos nga Serbian superstar nga makakuha sang ika-25 na nga Grand Slam title.
2-6, 6-2, 6-3, 7-5 ang score sang duha sa Rod Laver Arena.
Sa edad nga 22-anyos, si Alcaraz ang pinakabata sa Open Era nga nakadaog sa apat ka major tennis tournaments kasunod sang iya nauna nga mga kadalag-an sa Wimbledon kag sa French kag US Opens.
Nalapawan sini ang record sang legendary tennis player nga si Rafael Nadal nga halin man sa Espanya nga nakalab-ot man sang amo nga achievement sa edad sini anay nga 24-anyos.
Ini naman ang una nga tion nga nalutos si Djokovic sa finals sang Australian Open.
Antes sini, 10 ka beses siya nga nagdaog sa Melbourne.
Katapusan siya nga nakadala-pauli sang Grand Slam singles trophy sang 2023 kadungan sang US Open.
Colombian tennis player nga si Camila Osorio, Madinalag-un nga nakuha ang kampyonato sa Philippine Women’s Open
Madinalag-un nga nakuha sang Colombian tennis player nga si Camila Osorio ang kampyonato sa Philippine Women’s Open matapos sini malutos si Donna Vekic sang finals sa score nga 2-6, 6-3, 7-5 sang kahapon nga adlaw sa Rizal Memorial Sports Complex sa Manila.
Sa first set, gindominahan ni Vekic ang hampang sa score nga 6-2.
Natigayon naman nga nakabawi si Osorio sa ikaduha nga set sa score nga 6-3.
Nangin makahalawat-hawat ang ila hampang sa ulihi nga set, kun sa diin gintapos ni Osorio ang hampang matapos makuha ang ulihi nga puntos agud masiguro ang kampeonato.
Tuman naman ang kalipay ni Osorio kag ginakabig ini bilang isa ka dako nga dungog.
Ginlutos man ni Osorio sanday Sakura Hosogi kag Mai Hontama, amo man ang Filipino tennis star nga si Alex Eala, kag si Solana Sierra sa semifinals.
Lebron James, nangin emosyonal bangud sa huring-huring sa posible sini nga pagretiro
Nangin emoyonal ang NBA legend nga si Lebron James pagkatapos sang iya hampang batok sa Cleveland bangud sa huring-huring sa possible sini nga pagretiro.
Sa 23 sini ka tuig nga karera sa National Basketball Association, nadag-an na ni Lebron ang apat ka kampyonato kag nagpanguna man sa puwesto sa all-time scoring list.
Wala pa sang desisyon ang Lakers icon kun san-o ini magaretiro apang suno sa iya nga kun indi sa subong san-o pa.
Sa subong motivated pa ini sa iya hampang kaupod si Luka Doncic kag ang iya anak nga si Brony kun sa diin naga-average ini sang 22 points sa iya kada hampang sa sini nga season.
Suno sa mga analyst, possible nga magapadayon si Lebron sang isa pa ka season, apang nagapabilin ang palamangkutanon kun handa sini nga pagabatunon ang possible nga buhin sa iya sweldo sa iya team nga Lakers.
Alex Eala, nalutos sa quarterfinal match sang Philippine Women’s Open
Natapos na ang kampanya sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa labing-una nga edisyon sang WTA 125 Philippine Women’s Open.
Ini matapos nalutos siya sa quarterfinals sa kamot sang Colombian nga si Camila Osorio, 4-6, 4-6, sa Rizal Memorial Tennis Center.
Nanugon si Eala nga indi na siya makapadayon pa sa semifinals, apang ang mas importante suno sa iya, nadala ang WTA match diri sa Pilipinas kag mas madamo nga mga Pilipino ang nakalantaw.
Nahibaluan nga ini ang iya nga international match nga ginhiwat sa atubang sang Filipino fans diri sa pungsod.
“Sayang, hindi pumasa sa level pero ang importante, nandito ako sa Manila, sa Pilipinas at nandito ang WTA.
Maraming salamat,” pahayag sang Pinay star.
Maga-atubang naman si Osorio kay Solana Sierra sang Argentina nga amo naman ang naglutos kay Lanlana Tararudee sang Thailand, 6-3, 6-4, sa quarterfinal match.
Mangin masako naman si Eala sa WTA 500 Mubadala Abu Dhabi kun sa diin magadiretso siya sa main draw matapos napilian bilang wildcard.
Nabulsa sang Filipino Olympic pole vaulter nga si EJ Obiena ang bulawan nga medalya sa International Springer-Meeting sa Cottbus, Germany.
Ini man ang panibag-o nga season best ni Obiena.
Gindeklarar siya nga gold medalist patas kay Menno Vloon sang Netherlands matapos pareho nga nakalukso sang 5.77-meters.
Sandig sa website sang meet, kinahanglan ang jump-off agud nga madesisyunan kun sin-o sa ila ang kampyon, apang sang ulihi, pareho man sila nga wala nakalampas sa 5.84m sa pareho nga attempts.
Ini ang una nga tion sa maragtas sang Cottbus nga duha ka mga atleta ang gindeklarar sa una nga pwesto.
Nagpangatlo naman ang American pole vaulter kag defending champion nga si Sam Kendricks matapos nalukso ang 5.77m sa sulod sang tatlo ka attempts.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga semana, nabulsa man ni Obiena ang bronze medal sa 6th ISTAF Indoor Dusseldorf sa amo man nga pungsod.
Sa amo nga tournament, naangkon sini ang 5.65-meter clearance.#
Alex Eala, daog sa iya una nga hampang sa Philippine Women’s Open
Nag-abante na ang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa round of 16 sang labing-una nga Philippine Women’s Open matapos ginlutos si Alina Charaeva sang Russia, 6-1, 6-2, sa Rizal Memorial Tennis Center.
Espesyal man nga adlaw ang kumpetisyon ni Eala bangud ini ang iya una nga international match nga ginhiwat sa atubang sang mga Filipino fans diri sa Pilipinas.
49 nga Filipino pride ang paglutos sa Russian player sa imbukada nga set.
Sa second set, may medical time-out nga natabo kag ginkinahanglan pa ni Eala nga makalampuwas sa 0-2 deficit antes sini dalayon nga napierde si Charaeva nga subong world No.
Sang ulihi, ginklaro sini nga wala sang dapat nga kabalak-an sa medical time-out bangud indi man seryoso nga sakit ang iya nabatyagan.
Sunod nga atubangon ni Eala ang magadaog sa tunga sang hampang nanday Himeno Sakatsume kag Nao Hibino nga pareho nga halin sa Japan.
Ini ang una nga hampang ni Eala matapos nalutos sa first round sa Australian Open sang nagligad nga semana batok sa American player nga si Alycia Parks.
Ini man ang una nga tion nga naka-host ang Pilipinas sa isa ka WTA 125 event.
NBA: Jimmy Butler, posible nga indi na makabalik subong nga season bangud sa injury
Posible nga indi na makabalik sa nabilin nga bahin sang NBA season ang Golden State Warriors star nga si Jimmy Butler kasunod sang ginsuprer nga seryoso nga right knee injury.
Ginbuligan lamang nga makaguwa sa court ang 36-anyos nga player matapos nakabunggo kay Davion Mitchell sang Miami Heat.
Sa amo nga hampang sa Chase Center, daog ang Golden State, 135-112.
Ang Miami Heat amo man anay ang team kun sa diin nagahampang si Butler antes siya nagsaylo sa Warriors.
Natalana pa nga magpaguwa ang Warriors sang official statement sang resulta kasunod sang overnight MRI scan.
Apang antes pa sini, nagalapta na ang reports nga indi na makahampang pa subong nga season ang six-time NBA All-Star kasunod sang torn anterior cruciate ligament (ACL).
May average si Butler nga 20.1 points kada game sa iya nga full season sa Golden State.
Antes sang insidente subong nga semana, may history na nga daan si Butler sang injuries sa iya tuo nga tiil lakip na ang torn meniscus sang Pebrero 2018 kag sprained medial collateral ligament sang Abril 2024.
Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala, balantayan alas nueve subong nga aga sa main draw sang Australian Open
Balantayan alas nueve subong nga aga (oras sa Pilipinas) ang labing-una nga hampang sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa main draw sang Australian Open.
Makasumpong ni Eala ang 25-anyos nga American player nga si Alycia Parks.
Si Parks ang nakilala anay sang napatasan sini ang record sang beterana nga tennis player nga si Venus Williams bilang fastest female server sa history.
Ini matapos naka-serve sang 129 miles per hour sa iya hampang sa first round sang 2021 US Open.
Nagapang-99 ini subong sa rankings sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) samtang nagapang-49 naman si Eala.
Magluwas sa singles, magahampang man si Eala sa doubles sa main draw sang Australian Open.
Makapares sini si Ingrid Martins sang Brazil batok kanday Shuko Aoyama sang Japan kag Magda Linette sang Poland.
Duwa ka mga bataon nga mga Pilipino, igarepresentar ang Pilipinas sa 2026 Milano Cortina Winter Olympics sa Pebrero
Igarepresentar sang duwa ka mga bataon nga Pilipino ang Pilipinas sa 2026 Milano Cortina Winter Olympics sa Pebrero.
Ini amo sanday Francis Ceccarelli kag Tallulah Proulx nga kwalipikado para sa giant slalom kag slalom events.
Ang 22-anyos nga Ceccarelli ang labing una nga Pilipino nga nangin kwalipikado para sa Winter Olympics kag ang mangin ikalima nga Olympic alpine skier sang Pilipinas.
Ang 17-anyos naman nga si Proulx ang labing una nga Filipina nga makasulod sa regular Winter Games kag siya ang pinakabata nga Filipino Winter Olympian.
Pareho man sang mga ini nga ginrepresentar ang Pilipinas sa Asian Winter Games sa Harbin, China sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno kay Jim Apelar, presidente sang Philippine Ski and Snowboard Federation, bisan indi sila sigurado nga magadaog sila sang medalya, nagbukas naman ini sang dalan agud matagaan sang tyansa ang Pilipino nga mapakita ang ila nga kinaiya sa nasambit nga sports.
Ang 2026 Winter Olympics pagahiwaton halin Pebrero 6 tubtob 22 sa Milan kag Cortina d’Ampezzo sa Italy.
Nagdaog si Yulo sang iya nga ikatlo nga gold medal sa vault sa World Gymnastics Championships kag nakakuha pa ini sang iban pa nga medalya sa Asian Championships.
Samtang, naka-angkon man si Eala sang isa ka maragtason nga tuig sang nakasulod ini sa WTA Top 100 kag nakadaog man ini sang una sini nga WTA 125 title sa Guadalajara sa Mexico.
Nangin una man ini nga Pilipina sa Open Era nga nagdaog sang isa ka singles match sa US Open kag nadala sini pauli ang bulawan nga medalya sa SEA Games sa women’s tennis.
NBA: Jaylen Brown, ginmultahan sang masobra P2.08-million
Gin-anunsyo sang head sang basketball operations sa National Basketball Association (NBA) nga ginmultahan sang $35,000 ukon masobra P2.08-million ang Boston Celtics guard nga si Jaylen Brown.
Ini kasunod sang mga komento ni Brown sa social media nga naga-reklamo batok sa pag-officiate sa hampang sang Celtics batok sa San Antonio Spurs.
Nagreklamo ang 2024 NBA Champion kag Finals MVP bangud 20 ka free throws ang ginhatag sa Spurs samtang apat lamang sa Celtics.
May 18 man ka personal fouls ang Boston, samtang 13 naman ang iya sang Spurs.
Nahibaluan nga ini nga four-time All Star ang may matunog man nga pangalan bilang NBA MVP candidate subong nga tuig bangud sa iya pag-level-up para sa Celtics ilabi na bangud injured ang teammate sini nga si Jayson Tatum.
Sa hampang batok sa Spurs, naka-skor si Brown sang 27 puntos sa iya 43 minutos sa court, apang naka-skor naman ang San Antonio phenom nga si Victor Wembanyama sang 16 sang iya 21 points sa second half agud mabuligan ang Spurs nga magdaog.#
Gin-umpisahan sa operational testing ang newly renovated courts sang Rizal Memorial Tennis Center duha ka semana antes ang opisyal nga pagsugod sang Philippine Women’s Open.
Ini ang una nga WTA 125 event sang Pilipinas.
Antes sini, magahampang anay ang top female players sang Pilipinas para sa national ranking points kag para sa coveted wildcard entry.
Ini ang makabulig nga ma-test ang pasilidad kag magaserbe man nga qualifying event sa local players.
Indi na mag-intra sa playoffs ang top two players sang Pilipinas nga sanday Alex Eala kag rising star nga si Tennielle Madis sang M’lang, Cotabato bangud nahatagan na sila sang wildcards.
Ini bangud ang main draw sang Philippine Women’s Open ang dungan man sa ikaduha nga semana sang Grand Slam sa Melbourne.
Alex Eala, magapasakop sa Kooyong Classic sa Melbourne bag-o ang maindraw appearance sini sa Australia Open
Magapasakop ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa Kooyong Classic sa Melbourne bilang ulihi sini nga paghanda bag-o ang una sini nga maindraw appearance sa Australian Open.
Pagkatapos sang Semifinal finish sini sa ASB Classic sa Auckland gilayon nga nagkadto ang Filipina netter sa Autralia.
Sa karon ika-53 sa WTA rankings si Eala kag ginalauman nga magataas pa ang iya career-best sa No.
Kaupod sini sa Kooyong Classic sanday Donna Vekic, Priscilla Hon, kag Daniela Hantuchova.
Pagkatapos sa Kooyong, magapasakop si Eala sa Australian Open nga isa sa Grand Slam nga wala pa sini mahampangan sa main draw.
Tennis star Alex Eala, napaslawan sa semifinals sang ASB Classic sa Auckland, New Zealand
Napaslawan ang Filipina Tennis Star nga si Alex Eala sa iya hampang sa semifinals sang ASB Classic sa Auckland, New Zealand.
Nalutos si Eala sang Chinese player nga si Wang Xinyu sa score nga 7-5, 5-7, 4-6.
Nagpost naman si Eala pagkatapos sang hampang sa iya social media account nga may caption nga “’ So close yet so far.”
Nagpasalamat naman ini sa tournament hosts kag sa siyudad sang Auckland sa mainit nga pagbaton sa iya.
Sulod na sa semifinals sang ASB Classic doubles sa Auckland, New Zealand ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala kag ang iya American partner nga si Iva Jovic.
Natigayon ini paagi sa walkover matapos nag-withdraw ang decorated doubles tandem nanday Jesika Maleckova sang Czechia kag Renata Zarazua sang Mexico.
Sa Sabado, atubangon sang Filipino-American pair ang third-seeded Chinese pair nga sanday Yifan Xu kag Zhaoxuan Yang.
Nahibaluan nga pareho man sanday Eala kag si Jovic nga nag-abante na sa quarterfinals sang singles tournament sang amo nga WTA 250 tournament.
Pagkatapos sa New Zealand, balantayan ang 20-anyos nga Pinay tennis ace sa main draw sang Australian Open nga magasugod man subong nga bulan.#
Eala kag iya partner, ginlutos ang mga beterana nga sanday Williams kag Svitolina
Ginlutos ni Alex Eala kag sang iya American partner nga si Iva Jovic sanday 7-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams kag former world no.
Natabo ini sa round 16 sang ASB Classic women’s doubles sa New Zealand nga nagtapos sa skor nga 7-6 (7), 6-1.
Nakalampuwas ang Filipina-American pair sa mabudlay nga opening set antes nila nadominar ang masunod nga set nga amo ang nagpadaog sa ila batok sa 45-anyos nga si Williams kag 31-anyos nga si Svitolina.
Kabug-usan nga 16 Grand Slam doubles titles ang gina-uyatan sang amo nga decorated duo.
Sa numero nga ini, si Williams nga anay WTA World No.
1, ang may yara na sang 14 doubles crowns sa iya nga pangalan.
Magluwas sa ila hampang sa doubles, balantayan man si Eala sa singles event alas dos karon sa hapon batok kay Donna Vekic sang Croatia.
Nagapanguna sanday Carlos Yulo kag Alex Eala sa mga nominado para sa Athlete of the year 2025 sang Philippine Sportswriters Association (PSA).
Lunsay nakaangkon sang makasaysayan nga record ang duwa kag naghatag sang kadungganan sa Pilipinas sa tagsa ka sports nga ila ginrepresentar.
Liwat nga ginpamatud-an ni Yulo ang iya titulo matapos nga magdaog ini sang gold medal sa vault kag broze sa floor exercise sa 53rd FIG World Championships sa Jakarta.
Samtang, si Alex naman ang labing una nga Filipina nga nakasulod sa Top 50 sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) rankings.
Upod man sa mga nomindao sanday Miguel Tabuena, Chezka Centeno kag Kayla Sanchez.
Russians, indi magapartisipar sa Winter Olympics biskan pa nga maga-untat ang Ukraine war
Indi pagpahanugutan ang mga Russian athletes nga magpartispar sa Milano Cortina Winter Olympics biskan pa nga matabo ang peace deal sa Ukraine.
Suno kay Conventry nga magapabilin ang desisyon sang International Olympic Committee (OIC) nga pahanugutan nga magapartisipar ang Russian athletes sa hampang sa Pebrero bilang isa ka indibidwal lamang kag indi bilang tagtumalasakop sang Russia.
Gindumilian sang International Olympic Committee (IOC) ang Russia kag Belarus matapos ang pagsalakay sang Russia sa Ukraine sang Pebrero 2022.
Dugang pa ni Coventry nga ang pagahiwaton nga Olympics sa madamo nga syudad kaangay sa Italy ang mangin isa ka “the new normality” kag magaserbe nga gabay sang Milano-Cortina Gomes para sa masunod nga Olympics.
Pagahiwaton ang Milano-Cortina Gomes Winter Olympics humalin Pebrero 6 tubtob 22 subong nga tuig.
Anthony Joshua, nakaguwa na sa ospital matapos ang car accident
Nakaguwa na sa ospital ang two-time heavyweight champion nga si Anthony Joshua duha ka adlaw matapos na-involve ini sa makamamatay nga car accident sa Nigeria.
Suno sa Nigerian officials, padayunon sang British boxing star kag 2012 Olympic gold medalist ang pag-recover sa ila nga balay.
Nagpadulong man ang boksidor kag ang iya iloy sa punerarya agud nga magpaalam sa iya duha ka abyan nga napatay sa amo nga aksidente.
Antes ang insidente, nakit-an pa si Joshua kag iya kaupdanan nga nagahampang sang table tennis.
Sang nagabyahe na sang Lunes sang kaagahon, nakabunggo ang salakyan nanday Joshua sa truck sa expressway.
Ulihi siya nga nakahampang sang Disyembre 19 sang ginlutos sini ang YouTuber-turned-boxer nga si Jake Paul sa tune-up.
Kilala siya nga may 29-4 overall record sa iya nga career kun sa diin 26 ang nadag-an paagi sa knockout.
New York Yankees shortstop Anthony Volpe, naghiwat sang libre nga baseball camp para sa mga kabataan nga pinoy
Ginhimo ni New York Yankees shortstop kag half filipino nga si Anthony Volpe nga mangin makahulugan ang iya pagbisita sa Pilipinas paagi sa paghiwat sang libre nga baseball camp para sa mga kabataan nga pinoy.
Naglab-ot sa 200 ka mga kabataan ang nakabenepisyo sa camp nga ginhiwat sa isa ka Stadium sa Taguig.
Naghatag sang mga laygay kag eksperyensya parte sa baseball si Volpe amo man ang mga personal sini nga ginpang-agyan sa nasambit nga sport.
Nagpasalamat man siya sa iya mga pamilya diri sa Pilipinas nga nagbulig sa pagpatuman sang programa.
Magapabilin si Volpe sa Pilipinas tubtob Enero 7 antes magbalik sa Estados Unidos agud magpreparar para sa maabot nga Major League Baseball season sa Marso 2026.
Filipina Tennis Star Alex Eala, magapasakop sa 2026 Kooyong Classic sa Melbourne
Magapasakop ang Filipina Tennis Star nga si Alex Eala sa 2026 Kooyong Classic sa Melbourne halin Enero 13 tubtob 15.
Ini kasunod sa iya pagpakita sa MGM Macau Tennis Masters exhibition.
Ang Kooyong Classic ang pagahiwaton isa ka semana antes ang Australian Open nga isa ka prestihyoso nga warm up tournaments sa tennis.
Si Eala nga World 53 nga paga-updan nanday Donna Vekic sang Croatia kag anay World No.
Antes ini, magapasakop man ini siya sa WTA sa 250 ASB Claasic sa Auckland, New Zealand halin Enero 5 tubtob 11 bilang preparasyon sa Australian Open.
Wala nadala pauli ni Alex Eala ang kadalag-an sa MGM Macau Tennis Masters matapos mapierde ini sa iya kasumpong nga si Mirra Andreeva sa score nga 6–4, 6–2.
Hugot ang natabo nga hapang sang duwa ka mga atleta kun sa diin sa una nga set naka-abanse si Eala, apang madali naman nga nakabawi si Andreeva ilabi na sa exhibition match.
Nahibaluan nga sang sabado, napierde man sanday Eala kag Jerry Shang sa mixed doubles event matapos sila ginpierde sa magkapares nga sanday Yibing Wu kag Alejandro Davidovich Fokina.
Ginalauman nga magabalik si Eala sa Enero sa Australian Open.
Napaslawan nga makuha sang Tennis star nga si Alex Eala kag duo sini nga si Jerry Shang ang ila mixed doubles sa MGM Macau Tennis Masters event.
Ini matapos sila malutos sila sang ila kasumpong nga sanday Alejandro Davidovich Fokina sang Spain kag Yibing Wu sang China sa score nga 7–5, 7–6 sa tiebreak.
Si Fokina amo man ang nagdaog kay Shang sa men’s singles sa score nga 7–6, 7–5.
May yara naman sang kahigayunan si Eala nga magpasundayag sa women’s singles kontra kay Mira Andreeva sa subong nga adlaw.
Apisar nga MGM Macau Tennis Masters isa ka exhibition tournament kag indi kabahin sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) calendar, nagahatag naman ini sang importante nga eksperyensya para sa mga atleta.
Alex Eala, malipayon nga nalakip nga magahampang sa Macau
Malipayon nga ginpakigbahon ni Pinay tennis star Alex Eala nga ini ang makaupod sa listahan sang prestisyoso nga 2025 MGM Macau Tennis Masters.
Ginsiling sini nga isa ka dungog ang nasambit nga paghampang sa torneo nga mag-umpisa humalin Disyembre 27 tubtob 28.
Una nga makasambuwa niya si world number 9 Mirra Andreeva sang Russia sa women’s single sa adlaw sang Dominggo.
Nakaatubang na ni Eala ang Russian tennis player sang 2022 US Open kun sa diin ginpyerde niya ini para mangin una nga Pinay Junior Grand Slam Champion.
Kayla Sanchez, makabaton sang pinakadako nga incentives halin sa PSC
Makabaton sang pinakadako nga incentives halin sa Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) ang Filipino swimmer nga si Kayla Sanchez.
Ini matapos ang iya madinalag-on nga pagtiglawas para sa Pilipinas sa 2025 Southeast Asian Games nga ginhiwat sa Thailand.
Si Sanchez ang nakahakot sang kabug-osan nga tatlo ka gold kag lima ka silver medals.
Sandig sa Republic Act 10699, ang kada Filipino athlete nga makakuha sang gold medal sa SEA Games ang may batunon nga P300,000, P150,000 naman para sa silver medal, kag P60,000 para sa bronze medal.
Bangud sini, yara sa masobra P1.2 million ang ihatag sang PSC kay Sanchez.
Samtang, ginpahayag sang komisyon nga naglab-ot sa P35,190,000 ang kabug-osan nga kantidad sang incentives nga ipanagtag sa 277 ka mga atleta nga nakakuha sang medalya para sa Pilipinas sa amo nga kompetisyon.
Ika-33 nga Southeast Asian Games nga ginpatigayon sa Thailand, opisyal na nagtakop kagab-i, Disyembre 20
Opisyal na nga natapos ang ika-33 nga Southeast Asian Games nga ginpatigayon sa Thailand.
Sa amo nga kompetisyon, nakahakot ang Pilipinas sang kabug-osan nga 277 ka medalya nga nagbutang sa pungsod sa ika-6 nga pwesto sa overall medal tally.
Sa sini nga numero, 50 ang gold, 73 ang silver, kag 154 ang bronze medals.
Nalakip sa mga Filipino athletes nga naghatag kadungganan sa pungsod amo sanday EJ Obiena sa pole vault, Alex Eala sa tennis, kag Eumir Marcial sa boxing.
Nakabaton man sang bulawan nga medalya ang Gilas Pilipinas Men and Women sa basketball, lakip na ang Filipinas sa women’s football.
Ginhingadlan naman nga overall champion ang host country nga Thailand matapos ini makaangkon sang 233 gold, 154 silver, kag 112 bronze medals, ukon kabug-osan nga 449 ka medalya.
Sa liwat wala na nadala ang Cambodia sa medal tally bangud nagwithdraw na ini sa tournament bangud sa tension sa border sini sa Thailand.
Bulawan nga medalya sang Pilipinas, liwat nga nadugangan sa 2025 Southeast Asian Games sa Thailand
Nadugangan liwat sang bulawan nga medalya sang Pilipinas sa nagapadayon nga 2025 Southeast Asian Games sa Thailand.
Ini matapos nga naghimo sang maragtas ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala.
Nakuha ni Eala ang iya pinakauna nga SEA Games gold medal sa women’s singles tennis event matapos niya ginlutos ang tiglawas sang host country nga si Mananchaya Sawangkaew, 6-1, 6-2.
Ini ang nagmarka sang iya labing una nga bulawan nga medalya sa SEA Games matapos nga nakakuha lamang siya sang tatlo ka bronze medals sa iya debut sang 2022 SEA Games sa Vietnam.
Ini man ang ikatatlo nga gold medal sang Pilipinas sa women’s tennis sa SEA Games, kasunod nanday Pia Tamayo (1982) kag Maricris Fernandez (1999).
Samtang, nagkampyon man ang Philippines Men’s Softball Team matapos nila ginlutos ang Singapore, 3-0.
Nag-abanse man sa men’s basketball finals ang Gilas Pilipinas matapos ginlutos sang national team ang Indonesia, 71-68.
Sulod man sa finals sang women’s basketball tournament ang Gilas Pilipinas matapos nila ginlutos ang defending champion nga Indonesia, 66-55.
Ini na ang ikaapat nga sunod-sunod nga finals appearance sang Gilas Women sa biennial games.
Sa pihak nga bahin, napaslawan ang Philippine Men’s National Football Team nga makabulsa sang medalya matapos ginlutos sang Malaysia, 2-1, sa bronze medal match sang 33rd SEA Games.
Apisar sini, ginakabig gihapon nga maragtason ang kampanya sang koponan, bangud sila ang nagdala sang men’s football team sang Pilipinas sa semifinals sang SEA Games sa labing una nga tion sa sulod sang masobra tatlo ka dekada.
Tennis: Alex Eala, ginbulsa ang singles gold sa SEA Games
Ginbulsa sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala ang gold medal sa women’s singles sa 33rd Southeast Asian Games matapos ginlutos ang tiglawas sang Thailand nga si Mananchaya Sawangkaew sa final match subong nga adlaw.
Maragtason ini nga kadalag-an para sa Pilipinas matapos ulihi nga nadag-an ang bulawan nga medalya sa women’s singles sa biennial meet paagi kay Maricris Fernandez-Gentz sang 1999.
Sang amo nga tuig, wala pa nabun-ag ang subong world no.
Ini ang una nga gold medal ni Eala sa SEA Games kag iya ikatatlo nga medalya sini nga edisyon matapos nakadaog man sang bronze sa women’s team event kag sa mixed doubles.
Siya kag ang volleyball player nga si Bryan Bagunas ang flagbearers sang Pilipinas sa Bangkok subong nga 2025.
Ginlutos sang New Orleans Pelicans ang Chicago Bulls sa score nga 114-104.
Ginpangunahan ni Pelicans forward Trey Murphy III ang iya team agud ibulsa ang ika-lima nga kadalag-an subong nga season sa sulod sang 27 games.
Naghimo sang 20 points kag 10 rebounds si Murphy, sa bulig sang walo ka field goals nga napasulod sa sulod sang 34 minutes.
Naghampang naman sa bench ang anay number 1 overall pick nga si Zion Williamson kag naghimo siya sang 18 points sa sulod sang 27 mins.
Naghimo ang Pelicans sang 4th-quarter scoring run kag napasulod ang kabug-usan ngab 38 points sa sulod sang 12 mins.
Sa pagkapyerde sang Bulls, nalimitahan lamang sa 12 points ang sentro nga si Nickola Vucevuc, kaupod ang walo ka rebounds.
Alumna sang SPU Iloilo, bronze medalist sa SEA Games 2025
Nagdaug sang bronze medal sa SEA Games 2025 sa Thailand ang alumna sang St.
Ini amo si Kristine Kate Mercado nga nag-intra sa Extreme-Jet Ski Runabout 1100 Stock Category.
Si Mercado ang tumandok sang General Santos City apang nagtapos sang iya degree program nga BSBA – Marketing Management sa College of Business and Information Technology sang St.
SEA Games: Richard Gomez, lakip sa PH team nga nagdaog sang silver medal sa sporting clay event
Nag-upod man sa Thailand si Ormoc City Mayor Lucy Torres-Gomez agud suportahan ang iya bana kag pareho nga mga Ormocanon.
Suno kay Gomez, ini nga sport ang rason kun ngaa nagbalik siya sa SEA Games masobra duha ka dekada matapos ang iya katapusan nga pag-compete.
Sang 1995, gintiglawas sini ang Pilipinas sa fencing sa SEA Games sa Chiang Mai.
Nagdaog siya sang silver medal sa 1997 edition sa Jakarta kag isa pa ka medalya sang 2001 edition sa Kuala Lumpur.
Sa sini nga biennial meet sa Thailand, nagapasakop man ang anak sang celebrity couple nga si Juliana nga kabahin sang fencing team.#
4 ‘gold medals’ sang Pilipinas sa practical shooting, wala nalakip sa official medal tally
Nagpaulan sang gold medals ang practical shooting team sang Pilipinas sa 33rd Southeast Asian Games sa Eastern National Sports Training Center sa Chonburi, Thailand kahapon, Disyembre 14.
Nagtuhaw man ini sa SEA Games official website, apang wala nagsaka ang ranking sang Pilipinas.
Sang ulihi, ginpaathag nga “may error” ang organizing committee kag indi pa final ang hampang.
As of press time, nagapabilin sa ika-anum nga pwesto ang Pilipinas sa medal tally nga may 17 ka bulawan nga medalya.#
Filipinas, nag-abante sa SEA Games football final matapos ginlutos ang Thailand
Naghimo sang maragtas ang Philippine national women’s team matapos nakasulod sa finals sang Southeast Asian Games sa labing-una nga tion sa maragtas sang Pilipinas.
Sa semifinal match sa Chonburi Daikin Stadium subong nga gab-i, Disyembre 14, ginlutos sang Filipinas ang host nation nga Thailand paagi sa penalty shootout, 4-2, matapos nagtakop ang hampang sa 1-1 kasunod sang extra time.
Una nga naka-goal ang Thais paagi kay Jiraporn Mongkoldee sa ika-53 nga minuto.
Nagbato ang Philippine national team kag nabuhi ang paglaum sang napatas ang skor sa ika-87 nga minuto paagi kay Jael-Marie Guy (penalty).
Matapos ang tunga sa oras, 1-1 sa gihapon ang skor rason nga nagpadayon sa penalty shootout.
Sa bahin sang Thailand, naka-miss si Pluemjai Sontisawat, kag sang naglapaw sa net ang bola halin kay Orapin Waennngoen, didto na kag nasigurado ang labing-una nga finals appearance sang Philippine team sa football tournament sa SEA Games.
Sa Myerkules sang gab-i, atubangon sang Filipinas ang defending champion nga Vietnam sa Chonburi Stadium.
Una na nga gin-upset sang national team ang mga Vietnamese sa group match, 1-nil.
Hidilyn Diaz, napaslawan nga makabulsa sang medalya sa 33rd SEA Games
Wala gihapon sang medalya ang Team Philippines sa patag sang weightlifting sa 33rd Southeast Asian (SEA) Games sa Thailand.
Ini matapos nagpang-apat ang labing-una nga Olympic gold medalist sang pungsod nga si Hidilyn Diaz sa iya nga division nga women’s 58kg weightlifting event.
Nag-rehistro ang Tokyo Olympic champion sang 90kg lift sa snatch apang sa clean and jerk, na-clear sini ang 110kg antes napaslawan nga mahakwat ang 115kg kag 116kg.
Nanguna si Natasha Beteyob sang Indonesia (98kg snatch), kag ginsundan nanday Yodsarn Suratwadee sang Thailand (96kg), kag Thi Tam Quang sang Vietnam (96kg) sa clean and jerk.
Nagtapos si Diaz nga 4th overall nga may total nga 200kg.
Una na nga nagpahayag ang Olympian nga mabudlayan siya nga makuha ang gold medal bangud indi na pareho sang una ang iya preparasyon bilang atleta subong.
Magluwas sa iya sport, masako man ang 34-anyos nga weightlifter sa iban nga mga aktibidad kaangay ang fundamental culinary course.
Sang 2023 SEA Games sa Cambodia, wala naka-compete si Diaz bangud mas ginpili sini ang Asian Championships.#
SEA Games: Alas Women, ginlutos sang Vietnam sa semis, maga-diretso sa bronze medal match
Magadiretso sa bronze medal match ang Alas Pilipinas Women matapos gin-sweep sang Vietnam, 17-25, 14-25, 17-25, sa semifinals sang 33rd Southeast Asian (SEA) Games sa Indoor Stadium Huamark sa Bangkok, Thailand, Disyembre 14.
Nagpakita sang potensyal ang Alas sa first set sa pagpanguna ni Angel Canino, apang nakabawi kag naglagas ang Vietnamese players tubtub nga gindominar na sini ang hampang.
Nanguna sa scoring sang national team si Alyssa Solomon nga may 10 points, samtang may nueve puntos naman si Canino kag may syete puntos si Eya Laure.
Sa Vietnam nga silver medalist sang nagligad nga edisyon, may game-high nga 15 puntos si Tran Thi Thanh Thuy.
Ini nga kalutusan ang nagdugang pa sa gold medal drought sang Pilipinas sa SEA Games.
Ulihi ini nga nagpangibabaw sa biennial meet sa amo nga event sang 1993.
May tyansa naman ang team nga matapos ang 20-year medal drought kun mag-atubang ini 4:00 buwas sa hapon (Philippine time) sa loser sa tunga sang Thailand-Indonesia semifinal.
Ini na ang pang-lima nga sunod-sunod nga bronze medal match sang Pilipinas kag target sini nga malampuwasan na ang fourth-place hump subong nga edisyon.
SEA Games: Gilas Pilipinas, ginlutos ang Malaysia, 83-58
Gintambakan sang defending champion nga Gilas Pilipinas sang 25 puntos ang Malaysia, 83-58, sa imbukada sini nga hampang sa Southeast Asian (SEA) Games 2025.
Ginpatigayon ang hampang sa Nimibutr Stadium sa Bangkok, Thailand subong nga adlaw, Disyembre 14.
1-0 na ang Gilas sa Group A samtang nahulog naman ang Malaysia sa 1-1 card.
Sa pagtakop sang first quarter, abanse pa ang Malaysians, 22-16, apang nagbawi ang Pilipinas sa pagpanguna ni oach Norman Black sa second quarter kun sa diin nakalab-ot sa 22-0 nga puntos ang ginbubo sang national team.
ang nagpasaka pa sang abanse nga gindugangan pa sini sang tres puntos.
Sa halftime, may 42-26 na nga lead ang Pilipinas.
Nagtinguha pa ang Malaysia nga makabawi sa third quarter, 39-46, apang nagbalos sang triple si Robert Bolick kag nagbulig man sanday Thirdy Ravena kag Justin Chua agud matapos ang frame nga may 62-51 lead.
Sa katapusan nga quarter, nagsaka pa sa 74-57 ang lead sang Pilipinas tubtub nga napadala ang statement win sa panugod nga kampanya sini agud madepensahan ang titulo sa Southeast Asia.
12:30 sa udto buwas (Philippine time), magaatubang ang Pilipinas sa Vietnam.
Kun magdaog ang Gilas, makasulod na ang national team sa crossover semifinals sa Huwebes, Disyembre 18.
Wushu: Agatha Wong, gold medalist na naman sa SEA Games
Nadugangan pa ang gold medal collection sang Filipina wushu athlete nga si Agatha Wong sa Southeast Asian (SEA) Games.
Nagpangibabaw siya sa women’s taijiquan-taijijian event sa 33rd SEA Games sa Ratthaprasasanphakdi Building Government Complex Chaeng Watthana sa Bangkok, Thailand subong nga adlaw, Disyembre 14.
Ini na ang pang-anum niya nga SEA Games gold medal sa kabug-usan matapos nakadaog man sang tag-isa sang 2017, 2021, kag 2023, kag duha sadtong 2019.
Ang iya kadalag-an amo ang pang-16 nga bulawan nga medalya sang Pilipinas sa sini nga biennial meet.
Kayla Sanchez, nabulsa ang ika-3 nga bulawan nga medalya sa 33rd SEA Games swimming
Daog sa iya ikatatlo nga bulawan nga medalysa si Kayla Sanchez sa 33rd Southeast Asian Games matapos maka-recprd sang pinakamadasig nga oras nga 1:02.35 sa Women’s 100-meter Backstroke sa Hanoi, Vietnam sang Sabado.
Ginlutos niya si Mia Miller sang Thailand (1:02.52), samtang si Flarence Candrea sang Indonesia ang nagtapos sa pangatlo (1:02.60).
Ang kadalag-an ni Sanchez ang naghatag sa Team Philippines ng ika-14 nga bulawan nga medalya para sa 2025 SEA Games.
Siya man ang pinakamadamo nga medalya para sa pungsod sa kompetisyo nga ini, matapos madadaog san gold sa 4×100-meter relay kag 100-meter freestyle.
Nagpauli man siya sang silver sa 50-meter backstroke matapos maka-record sang bag-o nga SEA Games record sa morning heat
Pilipinas, yara na sa ikalima nga pwesto sa medal tally sa 2025 SEA Games
Nagsaka sa ikalima nga pwesto ang Pilipinas nga may 30 ka medalya sa pinakaulihi nga tally sang 2025 SEA Games subong nga adlaw, Disyembre 12.
Nagapanguna sa gihapon ang Thailand sa medal haul nga may kabug-usan nga 69 ka medalya lakip na ang 37 ka gold.
Nagapangaduha naman ang Vietnam nga may 10 ka gold, 7 ka silver kag 23 ka bronze medals.
Yara naman sa ulihi nga pwesto ang Timor Leste nga may duha ka bronze medals.
Eala kag Bagunas ginpangunahan ang opening ceremony bilang flag bearers sang Philippine National flag sa 2025 SEA Games
Ginpangunahan ni Alex Eala kag volleyball star Bryan Bagunas bilang flag bearers sang Philippine National flag ang opening ceremony parade of nations sa 2025 Southeast Asian Games sa Bangkok, Thailand.
Para kay Alex, ang pag-uyat sang hayahay sang Pilipinas isa ka eksperyensya nga kaangay nga damgo sa iya career bilang atleta sang Pilipinas.
Nahibaluan nga ginpangunahan ni Eala kag Bagunas ang 200 tanan nga kabahin sang Philippine contingent sa parade sa Rajamangala National Stadium.
Samtang, gipakigbahin naman sang amay ni Alex nga si Mike Eala ang katumanan sang iya handom nga makita ang iya bata nga nagadala sang hayahay sang Pilipinas sa international competition.
Ginpahayag man sang Philippine tennis team nga ang presensya ni Eala sa SEA Games nakahatag sang dugang inspirasyon kag morale sa team nga nagpasakop sa nasambit nga kompetisyon.
Duha ka mga Ilonggo, kabahin sang historic win sang PH men’s football team sa SEA Games
Tuman ang kalipay sang duha ka mga Ilonggo nga nangin kabahin sila sang national team nga nakahimo sang maragtas matapos nakasulod ang Pilipinas sa semifinals sang men’s football tournament sa Southeast Asian (SEA) Games sa labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang 34 ka tuig.
Ini amo sanday Selwyn Nickos Mamon, tumandok sang Janiuay, Iloilo; kag si Jaime Rosquillo nga tumandok naman sang banwa sang Barotac Nuevo.
Kagab-i, ginlutos sang Pilipinas ang defending champion nga Indonesia, 1-0, nga rason kun ngaa naka-abante ini sa final four sa labing-una nga tion halin sang 1991.
Suno kay Mamon, nag-umpisa sila sa paghanas sa training camp sang Nobyembre 25.
Ginbutang gid sa ila paminsaron nga mag-focus, magpamati gid sa tactics sang ila coach, kag maghatag sang atensyon “one game at a time.”
“Sobra gid ka-happy kami tanan kay nagdala kami pride kay indi lang pangalan namon ang amon dala diri, kundi bilog gid nga bansa ang amon nga gina-represent sa SEA Games,” suno kay Mamon.
Sa bahin ni Rosquillo nga nakahampang man anay sa SEA Games sa Vietnam sang 2021, ginpahayag sini nga importante nga bahin sang ila kadalag-an ang komunikasyon sa isa kag isa kag pagtuman sa coach.
“Ginapaminsar ko gid nga magnami ang hampang namon kag mag-communicate kami sa isa kag isa, kag mamati kami sa coach.
Wala gid kami nag-expect nga amo to ang resulta kagab-i, wala gid kami naghuna-huna nga madaog kami,” suno sa iya.
Lunsay man nagpasalamat ang duha ka players sa ila tagsa ka pamilya, mga abyan, taga-suporta, kag sa ila mga coach sa Iloilo nga amo ang naghanas sa ila tubtub nga nakalab-ot na sila sa international stage agud itiglawas ang Pilipinas.
Balantayan ang semifinals sang men’s football tournament sa Disyembre 15.#
Duha ka defending champions sa football sa SEA Games, pareho nga ginlutos sang Pilipinas
Sa sulod sang isa lang ka gab-i, duha ka daku nga kadalag-an ang nahimo sang Pilipinas matapos ginlutos sini ang duha man ka defending gold medalists sa men’s kag women’s football competition sa Southeast Asian (SEA) Games.
Ini ang una nga tion nga nakasulod ang Pilipinas sa final four sang men’s football competition sa amo nga biennial meet sa sulod sang 34 ka tuig.
Nahimo ini sang Pilipinas matapos ang 1-0 win paagi sa header ni Otu Banatao antes magtakop ang half-time batok sa Indonesia.
Sa pihak nga bahin, buhi naman ang paglaum sang Philippine Women’s National Football Team nga makasulod man sa semifinals.
Ginlutos sang team ang reigning champions nga Vietnam, 1-0, paagi kay Mallie Ramirez.
Ikaduha subong ang women’s team sang Pilipinas sa Group B sunod sa Myanmar.
Balantayan ang must-win match sang Filipinas batok sa Malaysia sa Huwebes, Disyembre 11, sa IPE Chonburi Stadium.
Sa men’s competition naman, may tyempo pa nga makapahuway ang players sang pungsod antes ang semifinals sa Disyembre 15 sa Bangkok.#
PH men’s football team, nakasulod sa SEA Games semis sa una nga tion sa masobra tatlo ka dekada
Nakahimo sang maragtas ang Philippine men’s football team matapos ini naka-abante sa semifinals sang Southeast Asian (SEA) Games sa labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang masobra tatlo ka dekada.
Natabo ini matapos ang 1-0 nga kadalag-an batok sa 2023 gold medalists nga Indonesia sa 700th Anniversary Stadium sa Chiang Mai, Thailand.
Ang naka-goal sa national team amo si Otu Banatao antes magtakop ang half-time.
Na-sweep sang Pilipinas ang Group C matapos ang una nga 2-0 nga score batok sa Myanmar sa imbuka nga kumpetisyon sang Byernes.
May tyempo pa nga makapahuway ang players sang pungsod antes ang semifinals sa Disyembre 15 sa Bangkok.
Daku ini nga pagbangon para sa Pilipinas matapos mapaslawan nga makadaog sang 2023 sa Phnom Penh, Cambodia kun sa diin naka-record ini sang isa ka draw kag tatlo ka kalutusan.
1991 pa sang katapusan nga nakalab-ot ang Pilipinas sa final four sang SEA Games, apang napaslawan man ini nga makabulsa sang medalya sang amo nga tion matapos ginlutos sang Singapore, 2-0, sa bronze medal match.
SEA Games 2025 nga pagahiwaton sa Thailand magasugod na subong nga adlaw
Opisyal na nga magabukas subong nga adlaw Disyembre 9, ang 33rd edition 2025 Southeast Asian Games sa pungsod Thailand kag magalawig tubtob Disyembre 20, 2025.
Pagasakupan ini sang ginabulubanta masobra 1, 600 ka mga delegado nagikan diri sa Pilipinas lakip ang mga atleta kag coaches kun sa diin ginakonsiderar nga amo ang pinakamadamo nga mga delegates sa kasaysayan sang biennial meet.
Magadala naman sang mga kilala kag mga mabaskog atleta ang Pilipinas sa nagkalain-lain nga sporting events kaangay na lang sang team sang Gilas Pilipinas Men, sa weightlifting nga pagapangunahan ni Hidilyn Diaz, sa Boxing, Alas Pilipinas Men (Volleyball), Alas Pilipinas Women, sa Athletics, Esports, Swimming, Wushu, Triathlon, Tennis, Taekwondo, Gymnastics, Fencing kag Rowing.
Sa opening ceremony, pagpangunahan ini nanday Alex Eala kag Bryan Bagunas nga magaserbe bilang flag bearers sang Pilipinas.
Padayon ang handum sang Pilipinas nga madala liwat sa medal standings ang pungsod kag nagalaum ang tanan nga mas mangin mapag-on pa gid ang presensya sang Pilipinas sa international sports competition.
Steph Curry, possible nga magbalik sa practice sang Warriors sa Myerkules, Dec.
Ginalauman nga magabalik sa practice sang Golden State Warriors si Stephen Curry sa Myerkules, Disyembre 10, matapos nag-ayo na ang left quadriceps contusion kag muscle strain nga naangkon niya sang Nobyembre 26 batok sa Houston Rockets.
Sa subong, nag-umpisa na siya sang ndividual on-court work sa Bay Area.
Bangud sa injury, missed ang ulihi nga apat nga hampang ni Curry kag wala nag-upod sa team sa ila nga road trip para mag-rehab.
Ang pagbalik ni Curry ang magahatag mans ang tsansa nga makaupod sa court ang iya manghod nga si Seth Curry.
Dugang nga mga myembro sang Team Philippines sa Bangkok, Thailand, nakaabot na duha ka adlaw antes sang opening sang 33rd Southeast Asian Games 2025
Nakaabot na ang dugang nga mga myembro sang Team Philippines sa Bangkok, Thailand, duha ka adlaw antes sang opening sang 33rd Southeast Asian Games 2025.
Ang Team Philippines magapadala sang 1,168 ka atleta nga maga-compete sa 50 ka mga hampang, kun sa diin ini ang pinakamadamo nga delegasyon nga ginpadala sang Pilipinas para sa SEA Games.
Natalana nga mangin flag‑bearers sang Pilipinas sa opening ceremony sanday Bryan Bagunas kag Alex Eala.
Ang delegasyon ginasakupan sang mga atleta, coaches, kag opisyal, kun sa diin may kabug-usan nga 1,600 ka delegasyon ang magatambong sa isa sa pinakadako nga sports event sa Southeast Asia.
Daku ini nga oportunidad para sa mga atleta sang Pilipinas nga ipakita ang ila abilidad kag madala ang kadalag-an para sa pungsod, Pilipinas.
Eman Pacquiao, ginapreparahan ang iya boxing fight sa masunod nga tuig
Masako na si Eman Bacosa Pacquiao sa pagpreparar para sa iya nagahilapit nga hampang sa Pebrero 2026.
Maga-focus man ini sa iya training subong nga bulan sang Disyembre tubtob sa bulan sang Enero sa masunod nga tuig.
Suno a iya, naga-umpisa siya sang iya training sang kun aga, pinaagi sa pag-jogging sang 13 tubtob 15 km, shadow boxing, sit-uos, kag paghimo sang push-ups.
Ginsiling naman ni Eman nga sa Davao sila magaselebrar sang paskwa upod ang iya pamilya.
Gilas Pilipinas, tinguhaan nga mapadayon ang pagpanguna sa basketball sa 2025 SEA Games
Ginalauman sang Gilas Pilipinas nga mapadayon ang ila pagpanguna sa basketball sa Southeast Asia sa pagpartisipar nila sa palaabuton nga 2025 Southeast Asian Games.
Pagapangunahan ang national team ni Norman Black, nga una nagdala sang gold medal sa Pilipinas sa SEA Games sang tuig 2011.
Ang lineup ginahimo sang mga propesyonal kag mga kilala sa kolehiyo, kag nakalab-ot ini sa apat ka revision tungod sa nagabag-o-bag-o nga mga patakaran sa eligibility sang mga players.
Yari ang mga opisyal nga lineup sang Gilas Pilipinas para sa 2025 SEA Games: Jamie Malonzo, Dalph Panopio, Thirdy Ravena, Matthew Wright, Ray Parks, Ced Manzano, Justin Chua, Robert Bolick, Von Pessumal, Allen Liwag, Abu Tratter, Veejay Pre.
Pagahiwaton ang SEA Games sa Disyembre 9 tubtob 20, 2025.
Men’s polo team sang pungsod, nagdaog batok sa Indonesia sa SEA Games
Nangin manami ang umpisa sang atleta sang pungsod sa 33rd Southeast Asian Games nga ginpatigayon sa Bangkok, Thailand.
Nagdaog sa una nga roud ang Men’s Polo team batok sa Indonesia sa 2-4 goals event VS Sports Club sa Samut Prakan.
Ini ang una nga pag-intra sang Mens’ Polo team matapos ang anom ka tuig nga indi pag-join.
Masunod nga masambuwa sang Pilipinas ang Thailand sa Sabado.
Kumpleto nga lineup sang Gilas Pilipinas para sa SEA Games, ginpagguwa na
Ginpagguwa na sang Gilas Pilipinas ang line-up nga magahampang sa Southeast Asian Games.
Pangunahan ni Norman Black nga mangin coach sang men’s national basketball team.
Siya ang nangin coach sang makuha sang men’s national basketball team ang gold medal sa SEA Games sang 2011.
Suno sa Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP) nga ang line-up ang ginalakipan sang professionals kag college players nga nagpaidalom sa apat nga revision bangud sa eligibility requirerments sang organizers sang SEA Games.
Ang lineups ang ginalakipan nanday: Jamie Malonzo, Dalph Panopio, Thirdy Ravena, Matthew Wright, Ray Parks, Ced Manzano, Justin Chua , Robert Bolick, Von Pessumal, Allen Liwag, Abu Tratter kag Veejay Pre.
Magaumpisa ang SEA Games halin Disyembre 9 tubtob 20 sa Bangkok, Thailand.
Alas Pilipinas Women’s volleyball team, nagalom nga makabalik sa medal standings
Nagalaum ang Alas Pilipinas Women’s volleyball team nga matapos na ang duha ka dekada nga medal drought sa masunod nga 33rd Southeast Asian Games sa Thailand.
Ini matapos nga nagpagguwa ang Philippine Olympic Committee (POC) sang opisyal nga listahan sang 14 ka players nga magatiglawas sang pungsod.
Pangunahan sang beterana nga setter nga si Jia De Guzman ang lineup, upod ang mga libero nga sanday Dawn Catindig kag Justine Jazareno, samtang mangin pwersa sa net defense ang mga blockers nga sanday Dell Palomata kag Maddie Madayag.
Nalakip man sa listahan ang mga bata-on nga spikers nga sanday Bella Belen, Shaina Nitura, Angel Canino, Alyssa Solomon kag Alleiah Malaluan, kag middle blocker nga si Amie Provido.
Sa frontline offense, yara man ang mga attackers nga sanday Vanie Gandler, Eya Laure, kag setter/opensa nga si Mars Alba.
Ang ila coach amo si Jorge de Brito nga nagpamuno sa Alas Women sa breakthrough sa AVC Nations Cup sini nga tuig kag pila pa ka podium finishes.
Sa nagahilapit nga SEA Games, nagapadayon ang preparasyon sang team nga may dako nga paglaum nga makabalik sa medal standings matapos ang 20-ka-tuig.
Ex-NBA player Elden Campbell, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 57
Nagtaliwan na si anay Los Angeles Lakers star Elden Campbell sa edad nga 57.
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya himata apang wala lang ginhatag ang iban nga detalye sa kamatayon sini.
Ang 6’11” center ang naghampang sa Lakers sa sulod sang 15 years.
Unang nga-draft siya sang Lakers sa first round sang 1990 kun sa diin nakaupod sini sa team sanday Kobe Bryant kag Shaquille O’Neal.
May yara ini sang average nga 1 points per game sa 1996-1997 season.
Sang 1999, na-trade siya sa Charlotte Hornets kun sa diin nakahimo man ini sang mataas nga puntos.
Nagdaog ini sang championship sang yara ini sa Detroit Pistons sang tuig 2004 sang ginlutos nila ang Lakers sa NBA Finals.
Diaz, nagpasalig nga himuon ang tanan agud mangin madinalag-on sa iya pagbalik sa SEA Games subong nga tuig
Nagpasalig ang Filipino weightlifter nga si Hidilyn Diaz-Naranjo nga iya himuon ang tanan agud mangin madinalag-on sa iya pagbalik sa Southeast Asian (SEA) Games sini nga tuig.
Sang nagligad, ginkumpirmar ni Naranjo nga magabalik siya sa kompetisyon, kun sa diin iya nakuha ang back-to-back gold medals sang 2019 kag 2022.
Suno sa iya, determinado siya nga magahatag liwat sang kadungganan sa Pilipinas pinaagi sa pagpauli sang medalya.
Ginpakita man ni Naranjo ang iya suporta sa iban pa nga Filipino athletes.
Hiwaton ang 2025 SEA Games sa Disyembre 9 tubtob 20 sa Thailand.
Kaupod ni Naranjo nga magatiglawas sang Pilipinas sa weightlifting sanday Rosegie Ramos, Jhodie Peralta, Elreen Ando, Kristel Macrohon, kag iban pa.
Gilas Pilipinas, liwat nga nagdaog batok sa kasumpong sini nga Guam sa first window sang FIBA World Cup Asian Qualifiers
Liwat nga nagdaog ang Gilas Pilipinas batok kasumpong sini nga Guam sa score nga 95-71 sa first window sang FIBA World Cup Asian Qualifiers.
Nagpakita gilayon sang kabaskog ang Gilas sa first quarter pa lang sang kompetisyon kun sa diin ginlutos ang world number 81 nga Guam sa ginpatigayon nga hampang sa Ateneo Blue Eagle Gym.
May yara na subong sang 2-0 nga abanse ang Gilas sa Group A.
Patas na ang Gilas kag Australia nga may 2-0 win-loss record kun sa diin magaatubangay sila sa Marso 1 nga patigayunon man diri sa Pilipinas.
Doncic, Reaves nagpanguna; Lakers ginpatumba ang Pelicans
Nagpanguna si Luka Doncic sa Los Angeles Lakers matapos naghaboy sang 34 puntos, 12 rebounds, kag 7 assists agud lutuson ang New Orleans Pelicans, 133-121.
Bente punto naman ang na-record ni Doncic sa una nga quarter nga naghatag sa Lakers sang 46-27 lead, pinakamataas nila nga puntos sa isa ka kwarter subong nga season.
Dako man ang bulig ni Austin Reaves nga may 33 points, kag 8 assists, samtang si Deandre Ayton ang nagdugang sang 22 puntos kag 12 ka rebounds antes maghalin sa hampang bangud sa palanakit sang tuhod.
Wala nakahampang si Lebron James bangud sa masakit nga left leg, apang enough sa gihapon ang opensa sang Lakers agud makuha ang ila ikaptio nga sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an.
Samtang, kulang ang Pelicans bangud wala sanday Zion Williamson kag Trey Murphy III, apang naglaom sila sa opensa nanday Bryce McGowens nga may 23 ka puntos kag Saddiq Bey nga may 22 points.
Ini na ang ika-12 nga pagkapyerde sang Pelicans sa ulihi nga 13 ka hampang, samtang nag-angat naman ang lakers sa 7-2 record sa ila nga home court.
Gilas Pilipinas, ginlutos ang Guam sa FIBA World Cup Asian Qualifiers
Ginlutos sang Gilas Pilipinas ang pungsod Guam sa FIBA World Cup Asian Qualifiers kahapon, Nobyembre 28, matapos sila magdaog sa daku nga abanse nga 87-46.
Nagpangibabaw sa scoring si Justin Brownlee nga may 22 puntos, samtang nagbulig man sanday AJ Edu nga may walo ka puntos kag Dwight Ramos nga may 10 puntos sa dominante nga performance sang national team.
Magasambuwa liwat ang Gilas kag Guam sa Disyembre 1 sa Manila Blue Eagles Gym sa Quezon City.
Nagasalig ang head coach sang Gilas Pilipinas nga si Tim Cone sa suporta sang home crowd agud mapadayon ang momentum sang Gilas kag makuha ang 2-0 record sa Group A.
Magatutok na ang national team sa ila ikaduha nga hampang batuk sa Guam kag si Cone ang nagalaum sa paghugyaw sang mga Pinoy nga makahatag sang inspirasyon sa ila kag makuha ang 2-0 record sa Group A.
Chris Paul, magaretiro na matapos ang 2025-26 NBA season
Gin-anunsyo sang beterano nga National Basketball Association guard nga si Chris Paul sang Sabado nga ang 2025-26 season na ang iya mangin ulihi nga tuig sa NBA.
Antes ang ila hampang sa Charlotte, nag-upload ang twelve-time All-Star sang isa ka video online nga nagaunod sang mga importante nga highlights halin sa iya karera.
Sa sulod sang halos 20 ka tuig sa liga, nagbilin si Paul sang pangalan bilang isa sa pinakasagad nga point guard sa kasaysayan.
Lakip sa iya mga nakuha nga award amo ang NBA Rookie of the Year (2006), apat na ka beses nga All-NBA first-team, lima ka beses nga NBA Assist Champion, anom ka beses nga Steals Leader, pito ka beses nga All-Defensive First Team, kag NBA All-Star Game MVP (2013).
Nakuha man ni Paul ang duha ka Olympic gold medals kaupod ang Team USA.
Naghampang si Paul sa pito ka nagkalain-lain nga team sa sulod sang 20 ka NBA seasons sa diin ginalakipan ini sang New Orleans Pelicans, Los Angeles Clippers, Houston Rockets, Oklahoma City Thunder, Phoenix Suns, Golden State Warriors kag San Antonio Spurs.
Samtang, subong nga season liwat nga nagpirma si Paul sa Clippers.
Magatambong si FIFA President Gianni Infantino sa pagbukas sang 2025 Futsal Women’s World Cup sa Philsports Arena.
Ginkumpirma ini ni Philippine Football Federation President John Gutierrez samtang nga masako na ang preparasyon para sa pagbukas sang tournament sa weekend.
Suno kay Gutierrez, nagalaum sila nga makakadto man sa seremonya si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Diri naman sa Pilipinas ang 15 ka mga team halin sa iban nga mga pungsod nga magapasakop sa hinampang — ang Italya, Portugal, Spain, Poland, Columbia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Panama, Morocco, Tanzania, New Zealand, Iran, Thailand, kag Japan.
Maga-atubangay sa imbukada nga hampang ang Morocco kag Argentina 6:00 sa gab-i kag pagasundan sang opening ceremony sa 8:00 p.m.
Sunod nga magahampang ang Pilipinas kontra sa Poland.
Ang World Cup players nga sanday Jaclyn Sawicki, Katrina Guillou kag Isabella Flanigan amo ang magapanguna sa team sang Pilipinas.
Nakahanas na sila sa Espanya kag nagbalik diri sa pungsod sang Nobyembre 12.
Ike Barilea sang Alas Pilipinas Men, nagtaliwan sa edad nga 21-anyos
Nagtaliwan ang player sang Alas Pilipinas Men nga si Ike Andrew Barilea duha ka adlaw matapos ang iya ika-21 nga kaadlawan.
Ginpakigbahin sang national team ang masubo nga balita, apang wala gindetalye sa publiko kun ano ang rason sang kamatayon.
Rest easy, Alas Ike Barilea,” kabahin sang tribute sang Alas.
Ini nga Negrense middle blocker ang ginpili mismo ni Alas head coach Angiolino Frigoni nga mangin kabahin sang 21-player pool sang national team sang 2025 FIVB Volleyball Men’s World Championship.
Nakahampang siya upod sa Alas Pilipinas-Cignal nga nag-compete sa 2025 AVC Men’s Volleyball Champions League sa Japan sang nagligad nga Mayo.
Lebron James, handa na nga maghampang liwat
Ginkumpirmar sang Los Angeles Lakers nga nag-ayo na ang injury sang ila star player nga si LeBron James.
Suno sa team, handa na liwat nga maghampang si LeBron, apang kinahanglan pa nga i-re-evaluate sang mga doktor sang Lakers sa sulod sang isa tubtob duha ka semana antes siya makabalik sa court.
Matandaan nga sang nagligad nga bulan, gin-diagnose si LeBron sang sciatica sa iya tuo nga kilid, rason nga ginpahuway anay siya sang team.
Apisar pa nga wala Lebron, nagdaog ang Lakers sa lima ka sunud-sunod nga hampang.
Si Lebrob nga 40 anyos na subong, wala pa nakasugod sang iya ika-23 nga NBA season, nga amo man ang iya ikawalo ka tuig upod sa Los Angeles.
NBA: Blazers, ginpanas ang 22-point deficit, ginlutos ang Thunder
Ginpanas sang Portland Trail Blazers ang 22-point deficit kag ginpatilaw sa defending NBA champions nga Oklahoma City Thunder ang ila una nga kalutusan subong nga season.
Nanguna sa 121-119 nga kadalag-an sang Blazers si Deni Avdija nga may 26 points, 10 rebounds kag nine assists.
Magluwas sa 22 nga lalagson sa imbukada nga quarter, wala gid naka-abanse ang Portland sa Thunder tubtub nga masulusobra na lang sa singko minutos ang nabilin sa final quarter.
May 22 points naman si Jrue Holiday kag 20 points si Jerami Grant nga nagdugang sang puntos sang Portland.
35 puntos naman kag siyam ka rebounds ang nahimo sang reigning MVP nga si Shai Gilgeous-Alexander para sa Oklahoma City.
Antes sini nga game, nadag-an sang Thunder ang walo ka una nga hampang kag isahahon nga team nga wala sang pierde subong nga season.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ini naman ang pang-81 nga sunod-sunod nga hampang nga masobra sa 20 ang puntos ni Gilgeous-Alexander nga amo ang third-longest streak sa maragtas sang NBA.
Ginsuspendi sang Memphis Grizzlies ang ila All-Star guard nga si Ja Morant bangud sang indi maayo nga komento sini batok sa ila coaching staff sa post-game interview
Ini pagkatapos nga malutos sila sang Los Angeles Lakers kahapon.
Suno sa report, sang ginpamangkot si Morant parte sa resulta sang hampang, ginsabata lamang niya ang mga reporters sang “Go ask the coaching staff.”
Makapila pa ka beses nga ginsulit ni Morant ang amo nga sabat sa apat ka separado nga tion, rason nga ginakabig sang team nga indi ini angay nga pamatasan.
Si Morant may average nga 20.8 points kag 6.7 assists sa iya mga hampang.
Ginbuyagyag sang Oklahoma City Thunder nga ang guard nga si Nikola Topic ang na-diagnose nga may testicular cancer kag subong nagapaidalom sa chemotherapy.
Suno sa general manager nga si Sam Presti, ginkumpirma sang mga doctor ang long-term outlook sang 20-anyos nga player.
Ginsiling naman sang coach sini nga si Mark Daigneault nga yara na sa maayo nga sitwasyon si Topic kag padayon nga naga-training kag naga-join sa mga aktibidad sang team.
Si Topic ang ginalauman nga mangin importante nga kabahin sang Thunder matapos sila nagdaog sang NBA title sang nagligad nga season.
Napilitan siya nga indi makahampang sang bilog nga 2024-2025 season bangud sa ACL injury, apang matandaan nga nakita siya sa summer league sa isa ka preseason game batok sa Charlotte.
Ginsambit man ni Daigneault nga handa ang mga kampo ni Tpic nga maghatag sang suporta sa iya.
Alex Eala, nataktak na sa Hong Kong Open
Nagkabos si Alex Eala nga makaabante pa sa masunod nga round sang Hong Kong Open nga amo ang katapusan sini nga tournament subong nga tuig.
Ginlutos siya sa Round of 16 sang Canadian player nga si Victoria Mboko, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.
Naka-abante ang Pinay tennis player sa Round of 16 bangud wala naghampang si Katie Boulter kasunod sang injury.
Sa doubles draw, nalutos man si Eala kag ang partner sini nga si Hao-Ching Chan batok kanday Kamilla Rakhimova sang Russia kag Aliaksandra Sasnovich sa una nga round sang Lunes.
Apisar sini, maragtason sa gihapon ang kabug-usan nga 2025 season para kay Eala kun sa diin nakasulod siya sa world’s top 100, ginpanglutos sini ang Grand Slam champions, nangin una nga Pinoy nga nakadaog sa Grand Slam main-draw match sa US Open, kag nahakwat man ang iya una nga WTA 125 title sa Guadalajara sa Mexico.
Ginkumpirmar ni Manny Pacquiao nga may posibilidad nga may matabo nga rematch batok kay Floyd Mayweather, Jr.
Lakip man sa possible nga makasambuwa sang former eight-division world champion ang 37-year-old Ukranian pugilist nga si Vasyl Lomachenko.
Napulo na tuig ang nagligad humalin sang nagsambuwa sanday Pacquiao kag Mayweather, sa diin nagdaog si Mayweather via unanimous decision.
Matandaan nga nagtapos sa majority draw ang pinakaulihi nga hampang ni Pacquiao sang hulyo batok kay Marrio Barrios.
Pacquiao, itinalaga bilang vice president ng International Boxing Association
Ito ang kauna-unahang boxing federation sa buong mundo, bago naglitawan ang iba pang mga samahan.
Ginawa ang pormal na pagtatalaga sa Board of Directors meeting ng IBA na ginanap sa Maynila noong Oktubre 27, 2025, kasabay ng paggunita sa ika-50 anibersaryo ng “Thrilla in Manila.”
Bilang vice president, si Pacquiao ay inaasahang mangunguna sa pagbuo ng mga athlete-centered programs, pagpapalawak ng boxing sa rehiyon ng Asya, at pagtataguyod ng karapatan ng mga boksingero sa buong mundo.
Makakatrabaho niya si IBA President Umar Kremlev sa mga reporma at inisyatibong layong ibalik ang tiwala sa organisasyon matapos itong tanggalan ng karapatang mag-organisa ng Olympic boxing events ng International Olympic Committee (IOC) noong 2021 dahil sa mga isyu sa pamamahala at transparency.
Ang IBA na dating kilala bilang Amateur International Boxing Association, ay minsang namamahala sa boxing sa Olympics.
Ngunit sa darating na 2028 Los Angeles Olympics, ang World Boxing na ang mamamahala sa kompetisyon.
Sa kabila nito, nananatiling aktibo ang IBA sa mga pandaigdigang programa para sa mga amateur at professional boxers.
Bilang isa sa pinakakilalang atleta sa kasaysayan ng boxing, inaasahang magiging inspirasyon si Pacquiao sa mga bagong henerasyon ng boksingero.
Ang kanyang paglipat mula sa ring patungong boardroom ay simbolo ng kanyang patuloy na paglilingkod sa sports na nagbigay sa kanya ng pandaigdigang pagkilala.
Jia de Guzman, pangunahan ang Alas Pilipinas Women sa 2025 SEA Games
Gin-anunsyo na sang Philippine National Volleyball Federation (PNVF) ang pangalan sang players nga magatiglawas sang Pilipinas para sa 33rd Southeast Asian Games sa Thailand sa Disyembre.
Magapanguna ang beterana nga setter nga si Jia de Guzman kaupod sanday Julia Coronel kag Mars Alba.
Ang mga libero amo sanday Dawn Macandili-Catindig, Jen Nierva, kag Justine Jazareno, samtang ang opposite spikers amo sanday Alyssa Solomon, Leila Cruz, kag Kat Tolentino.
Katapusan nga nakadaog ang Pilipinas sang gold medal sa women’s volleyball sang 1993.
Antes magkadto sa Thailand, magahanas anay ang team halin sa November 15-30 bilang preparasyon sa biennial meet.
Jia de Guzman, pangunahan ang volleyball team nga magatiglawas sang Pilipinas sa SEA Games
Pacquiao, nagpungko bilang opisyal sang former Olympic boxing body
Maga-trabaho ang 46-anyos nga Pinoy boxing legend kaupod sa president nga si Umar Kremlev sang Russia para nga makabalay sang mga programa nga magapasangkad sang mga oportunidad para sa mga atleta.
Suno kay Pacquiao, nagapasalamat siya nga mangin parte sang sini nga asosasyon kun sa diin makabulig siya sa bataon nga mga boksidor, makahimo sang mga kampyon, kag masigurado nga wala sang pungsod nga mabilin sa tabtaban.
Ini nga organisasyon ang kilala anay bilang Amateur International Boxing Association kag amo ang sa likod sang boxing events sa Olympics.
Pila ka beses ini nga ginpaandaman kaangot sa isyu sa pinansyal tubtub nga dalayon nga gin-utod sang International Olympic Committee ang koneksyon sa amo nga organisasyon antes ang Olympics sa Japan sang 2021.
Sa 2028 sa Los Angeles Olympics, ang maga-uyat sang boxing competitions amo ang bag-o nga organisasyon nga World Boxing.
Nakuha sang Filipino gymnast kag Olympic medallist nga si Carlos Yulo ang gold medal sa men’s vault final sang 53rd FIG Artistic Gymnastics World Championships sa Jakarta, Indonesia subong nga Sabado, Oct.
Nalutos ni Yulo si Artur Davtyan sang Armenia matapos maka-record sang 15.200 sa first vault kag 14.533 sa second vault para sa average nga 14.866.
Nakuha ni Davtyan ang silver nga may 14.833 points, samtang bronze naman ang napauli ni Nazar Chepurnyi sang Ukraine sa average nga 14.483.
Antes ang pagkadaog sa men’s vault, nagdaog man si Yulo sang Bronze sa men’s floor exercise sang World Championships sang Biyernes, Oct.
Eala kag Kichenok, sulod na sa semis sang Guangzhou women’s doubles
Nag-abante na sa semifinals sang Guangzhou Open sanday Alexandra “Alex” Eala sang Pilipinas kag Nadiia Kichenok sang Ukraine.
Ini matapos sila nagdaog batok sa Russian duo nga sanday Polina Kudermetova kag Kamilla Rakhimova, sa iskor nga 6-3, 7-5, sa ila quarterfinal match kahapon sa China.
Apisar pa nga naka-reord sang 4-3 nga abanse ang mga Ruso sa ikaduha nga set, gilayon man nakabawi sanday Eala kag Kichenok.
Antes sini, ginlutos man sang Filipino-Ukrainian duo sanday Emily Appleton sang Great Britain kag Qianhui Tang sang China sa Round of 16, kun sa diin nagdaog sila sa iskor nga 6-4, 6-2.
Bangud sang ila kadalag-an, isa naman ka importante nga milestone ang nadugang sa international career ni Eala.
Masunod nila nga makasambuwa amo sanday Katarzyna Piter sang Poland kag Janice Tjen ng Indonesia.
Alex Eala, ginlutos sang unseeded player sa imbukada nga hampang sa Guangzhou Open
Nalutos ang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa kamot sang isa ka unseeded player sa iya imbukada nga hampang sa WTA 250 Guangzhou Open sa China.
2-6, 6-4, 6-4 ang resulta sang hampang pabor sa 25-anyos nga world No.
305 nga si Claire Liu nga nagatiglawas sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Apisar sang temprano nga exit sa singles match, may oportunidad pa nga makabawi ang world No.
53 nga si Eala paagi sa doubles match sini 2:10 karon sa hapon.
Maka-pares ni Eala ang Ukrainian player nga si Nadiia Kichenok.
Atubangon nila ang Chinese-British pair nanday Tang Qianhui kag Emily Appleton.
Kasunod sini nga Guangzhou Open, magapasakop ang Pinay tennis player sa Hong Kong Open sa October 25 tubtub November 2.
Ini ang iya pang-apat nga tour sa China sa nagligad nga duha ka bulan kasunod sang iya partisipasyon sa Jingshan, Wuhan, kag Suzhou.
The NBA is officially back: Mga balantayan nga hampang subong nga adlaw
Maga-umpisa na ang 2025-26 season sang National Basketball Association (NBA) subong nga adlaw.
Matabo ini matapos ang 120 ka adlaw kasunod sang kadalag-an sang Oklahoma City Thunder sa finals batok sa Indiana Pacers.
7:30 subong nga aga (oras sa Pilipinas), magaatubangay sa Paycom Center sa Oklahoma ang team sang Thunder kag ang Houston Rockets.
10:00 naman subong gihapon nga aga, magasambuwa ang Los Angeles Lakers kag ang Golden State Warriors sa Crypto.com Arena sa Los Angeles, California.
Indi maka-upod ang 40-anyos nga superstar nga si LeBron James sa imbukada nga hampang bangud sa iya nga injury.
Ini na ang iya record-breaking nga 23rd season sa liga.
Manguna sa Lakers si Luka Doncic nga amo ang iya una nga full season sa Los Angeles matapos ang blockbuster trade nagikan sa Dallas Mavericks sang Pebrero.
Sa Warriors, yara ang 37-anyos nga si Stephen Curry nga maga-umpisa sang iya ika-17 nga season sa NBA, kun sa diin makaupod man sini ang 36-anyos nga si Jimmy Butler kag 35-anyos nga si Draymond Green.
53 si Pinas tennis star Alex Eala sa latest Women’s Tennis Association rankings subong nga Lunes.
Antes sini, naglab-ot si Eala sa quarterfinals sang Suzhou WTA 125.
Nag-intra man siya sa uhan Open qualifiers kag opening round sang Kinoshita Group Japan Open.
Nakatalana nga maghampang si Eala sa singles kag doubles event sang Guangzhou Open sa China.
Carlos Yulo, pangunahan ang PH team sa world championships apisar sang iya wrist injury
Pangunahan ni Carlos Edriel “Caloy” Yulo ang team halin sa Pilipinas nga magapasakop sa 53rd Artistic Gymnastics World Championships sa Jakarta, Indonesia.
Maga-umpisa ang kumpetisyon sa Domingo, Oktubre 19, kun sa diin tatlo ka adlaw ang qualification rounds kag naka-schedule naman ang finals sa Oktubre 22 tubtub 25.
Dayunon sang 25-anyos nga gymnast ang pag-intra apisar sang naangkon sini nga wrist injury, apang base sa reports, limitahan lang sini ang iya pasakupan sa floor exercise kag sa vault.
Kaupod ni Yulo ang iban pa nga Southeast Asian Games medalists kaangay kanday Juancho Besana, John Ivan Cruz kag Justine Ace De Leon, Haylee Garcia kag Paris Olympians nga sanday Aleah Finnegan kag Emma Malabuyo.
Talalupangdon nga maga-upod man sa kumpetisyon ang manghod ni Yulo nga si Elaiza.
Magasulod si Yulo sa tournament nga isa sa ginakabig bilang most decorated gymnasts nga may duha ka gold medals sa World Championship nga amo ang sa floor exercise kag sa vault; duha ka silver medals nga nakuha sini sa parallel bars kag sa vault; kag duha man ka bronze medals nga naangkon naman sini sa floor exercise kag sa parallel bars sa nagligad nga mga edisyon sang nasambit nga global event.
Sang 2023 World Championships sa Belgium, nagpang-apat lamang si Yulo sa floor exercise nga amo ang isahanon nga apparatus kun sa diin nag-qualify siya para sa finals.
Alex Eala, magabalik sa paghampang sa China kasunod sang early exit sa Japan
Magabalik si Alex Eala sa China para sa Guangzhou Open kasunod sang iya temprano nga pagguwa sa WTA 250 Osaka tournament sa Japan.
Natalana ang hampang sini sa Guangzhou sa Oktubre 20-27.
Pagasundan ini sang Hong Kong Open sa Oktubre 27 tubtub sa Nobyembre 2.
Sa Japan, ginlutos si Eala sang 18-anyos nga Czech phenom nga si Tereza Valentova sa round of 32 sa skor nga 6-1, 6-2.
Ini ang pinakamalala nga kalutusan sang Pinay tennis star halin sang natabo ang 6-0, 6-1 blowout sa kamot sang Ukrainian nga si Marta Kostyuk sang nagligad nga Mayo sa WTA 1000 Italian Open.
Nahibaluan nga nagapang-78 sa latest rankings ang Czech player samtang ang 20-anyos nga pambato sang Pilipinas ang nagapang-54 nga amo ang iya bag-o nga WTA career-high world ranking.#
Valentin Vacherot, nagkampyon sa Shanghai Masters
Nagkampyon sa Shanghai Masters si Valentin Vacherot.
Ini matapos nga ginlutos niya sa finals ang pakaisa pakaisa sini nga si Arthur Rinderknech sa score ng 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 .
Bangud diri, ang 26-anyos nga ranked 204 ang nangin lowest player nga nagdaog sang ATP Masters 1000 title.
Antes nagkampyon, ginlutos sini ang mga may matag-as nga ranking kaangay nanday Holger 11 nga si Holger Rune sa quaterfinals kag sa semifinals naman nga si Novak Djokovic.
Nakakuha si Vacherot sang masobra $1.1 million nga premyo kag ang pagsulod sa Top 50 sa world rankings.
LeBron James, indi pa mag-retiro sa basketball
Nakumpirma nga kabahin sang isa ka advertisement sang isa ka drink company kag indi parte sa iya retirement ang “Second Decision” nga iya una gin-anunsyo.
Ginbantayan sang basketball fans ang amo nga anunsyo ni James bangud gintawag niya ini sa social media nga “the decision of all decisions”.
Matandaan nga ginhimo man sang basketball icon ini nga marketing strategy sang nagpahayag nga maga-upod siya sa Miami Heat sang Hulyo 2010 nga television special, apang nagguwa nga isa man ka ad reveal.
Nahibaluan nga ini na ang pang-23 nga NBA season sang 40-anyos nga four-time NBA Most Valuable Player.
Ini nga 21-time All-Star kag four-time NBA champion ang naga-uyat sang average nga 24.4 points, 7.8 rebounds kag 8.2 assists sang nagligad nga season kag nagpang-anum sa MVP voting.
Siya man ang ginakilala nga all-time NBA leader sa points (42,184) kag minutes nga nakahampang (59,041).
Nakahampang siya sa 1,562 games nga amo ang ikaduha sa pinakamataas sa kabug-usan suno kay Robert “the Chief” Parish (1,611).
American climber Balin Miller, nagtaliwan sa edad nga 23
Nagtaliwan ang isa ka American climber nga si Balin Miller sa edad nga 23 anyos matapos ini mahulog samtang nagasaka sa El Capitan summit sa Yosemite National Park sa California, USA.
Ginkumpirmar mismo sang iloy ni Miller nga si Jeanine Moorman ang masubo nga balita sang iya kamatayon.
Suno sa mga otoridad, tuyo kuntani ni Miller nga sakaon ang El Capitan, isa sa mga pinakapopular kag delikado nga rock formations sa Estados Unidos, nga may kaatason nga 3,000 ka tapak sa valley floor sang Sea of Dreams.
Kilala si Miller sa climbing community, kag ginadokumento pa niya ang iya mga pagsaka paagi sa live videos sa iya social media accounts, nga ginatutukan sang madamo niya nga followers.
Pilipinas, posible mag-host sang WTA 125 tournament sa 2026
Ginakalangkagan sang Filipino tennis fans ang bag-o nga anunsyo nga posible mag-host ang Pilipinas sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) 125 tournament sa masunod nga tuig.
Isa ini ka tournament nga ginapasakupan sang mga dalagku na nga WTA players kag mga bag-uhan apang abilidaran sa tennis nga nagaplano nga mapapag-on pa ang ila karera kag makasaka sa mas mataas nga lebel sang WTA Tour.
Sa matandaan, nagdaog ang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sang iya una nga WTA 125 title sa Guadalajara sa Mexico sang nagligad nga tuig.
Sandig sa Philippine Sports Commission (PSC), target nila nga patigayunon ang aktibidad sa Enero 26 tubtub Pebrero 1, 2026.
Natabo ini nga development sang nagkit-anay sanday PSC chair Patrick Gregorio kag Navotas Mayor kag Philippine Tennis Association secretary-general John Rey Tiangco sang Septyemnre 29.
Magluwas sa sini nga potensyal nga tournament, maga-host man ang Pilipinas sang International Tennis Federation (ITF) J30 tournament sini nga tuig.
Ginaplanuhan man nga buksan liwat ang Rizal Memorial Tennis Courts kag tukuron ang Philippine Tennis Center.
Sa bahin ni Eala, balantayan 10:00 subong nga aga ang hampang sini batok kay Viktorija Golubic sang Switzerland sa quarterfinals sang Suzhou Open WTA 125.
Ini na ang ikaapat nga sunod-sunod sini nga quarterfinal appearance kasunod sang Guadalajara 125, SP Open, kag Jingshan Tennis Open.
Sa bilog nga tuig, ikaanum na niya ini nga quarterfinal match kag lakip sa pinakadaku sini nga nalab-ot amo ang sa Miami Open sang Marso kag ang Eastbourne Open sang Hunyo.
Alex Eala, sulod na sa quarterfinals sang 2025 Suzhou Open sa China
Nag-abante na sa quarterfinals sang 2025 Suzhou Open WTA 125 ang Filipina tennis ace nga si Alex Eala.
Ini matapos nga ginlutos sini ang pambato sang Belgium nga si Greet Minnen sa isa ka mabaskog nga three-set match sa round of 16, sa score nga 7-6 (5), 6-7 (3), 7-5.
Ini ang ikaapat nga sunod-sunod nga quarterfinal appearance ni Eala sa WTA 125 events, kasunod sang iya pagpasakop sa Guadalajara Open, SP Open, kag Jingshan Tennis Open.
Sa kabug-usan, ika-anom na ini nga beses nga nakalab-ot si Eala sa quarterfinals sa isa ka international event, lakip na ang iya mga pagpakita sa Miami Open kag Eastbourne Open.
Sa masunod nga round, atubangon naman ni Eala ang pambato sang Switzerland nga si Viktorija Golubic.
Nag-abante na ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa Round of 16 sang Suzhou Open sa China.
Ginlutos sini sa round of 32 ang Polish player nga si Katarzyna Kawa sa skor nga 6-3, 3-6, 7-5.
Sa tunga-tunga sang ila hampang, nag-ulan pa rason nga may mga interruption.
Matapos ang kadalag-an batok sa World No.
124 nga player, sunod nga atubangon sang Pinoy pride ang world no.
Scoot Henderson sang Trail Blazers, indi makahampang sang 4 tubtob 8 ka semana bangud sa injury
Indi anay makahampang ang guard sang Portland Trail Blazers nga si Scoot Henderson matapos siya nakaangkon sang injury sa iya tuo nga hamstring, rason nga posible siya madula sa sulod sang apat tubtob walo ka semana, suno sa opisyal nga pahayag sang team.
Natabo ang injury samtang naga-ensayo siya sa offseason, kabangdanan nga indi siya makaupod sa pag-umpisa sang training camp sang Blazers sa masunod nga semana.
Si Henderson, 21-anyos, ginalauman nga mangin isa sa mga lider sang team sa masunod nga NBA season, ilabi na matapos ang pagsaylo ni Anfernee Simons sa Boston Celtics.
Suno sa record sang nagligad nga season, nakakuha si Henderson sang average nga 12.7 puntos, 5.1 ka assists, kag 3 ka rebounds kada hampang.
Italy, liwat nagkampyon sa FIVB Men’s World Championship
Liwat nga nagkampyon ang Italy sa FIVB Men’s World Championship matapos ginlutos ang Bulgaria.
Nakuha sang Italy ang score nga 25-21, 25-17, 17-25, 25-10 sa atubang sang 16,429 nga mga tumalan-aw sa Mall of Asia Arena.
Nagbida sa kadalag-an sang Italy si Yuri Romano nga naka-record sang 22 points, 16 kills, lima ka aces kag blocks.
Nakasulod ang Italy sa Final matapos ginlutos ang World number 1 nga Poland sa semifinals.
Yara sa ikaduha nga pwesto ang Italy sa Pool F nga may yara sang duha ka kadalag-an kag isa pyerde kun sa diin napaslawan sila sa Belgium.
Italy kag Bulgaria, maga-atubangay sa Finals sang 2025 FIVB Volleyball Men’s World Championship
Maga-atubangay ang Bulgaria kag ang defending champions nga Italy sa finals sang 2025 FIVB Volleyball Men’s World Championship nga ginahiwat diri sa Pilipinas.
17 nga Czechia sa semifinals agud maka-abante sa championship round nga amo ang ila una nga pagtapak sa finals halin sang 1970.
2 kag defending champions nga Italy ang ulihi nga pwesto sa finals matapos ginpierde ang World No.
Ginpangunahan naman ini sang ila nga team captain kag setter nga si Simone Giannelli agud makuha ang straight-set win pinaagi sa 24 ka excellent sets kag siyam ka digs.
Ini na ang ikaanum nga World Championship final appearance sang Italya.
Apat sa lima sa ila katapusan nga apperances ang ila nadag-an lakip na ang “three-peat” sang 1990, 1994, kag 1998.
ALMOST THERE: Alas Pilipinas, nataktak na sa FIVB Volleyball Men’s World Championship
Napaslawan ang Alas Pilipinas nga maka-abante sa masunod nga round sang 2025 FIVB Volleyball Men’s World Championship.
Ini matapos nalutos sa kamot sang world no.
16 nga Iran sa katapusan nga hampang sa pool stage kagab-i, Septyembre 18, nga naglab-ot pa sa five sets.
Sa 19-18 mark sang do-or-die set, nagtinumbo-tumbo na sa kalipay ang players, fans, pati ang coaches kag ang federation officials kasunod sang block ni Kim Malabunga nga naghimo sang skor nga 20-18.
Apang nagtawag ang Iran sang net touch challenge nga amo ang nagluwas sa ila sa match, 19-all.
Napatas pa liwat ni Bryan Bagunas ang hampang sa 20-all, apang nakuha na sang kasumpong ang upper-hand kag dalayon nga naka-abante sa knockout stage.
Ini ang debut sang Alas Pilipinas sa world stage, kag nakahimo sang maragtas sang na-upse sini sang nagligad nga gab-i ang Egypt nga world no.
Nagsugod ang tournament nga pang-88 ang Pilipinas, apang nagsaka ini sa world no.
Magluwas sa Iran, naka-abante naman sa playoff stage ang Tunisia nga lakip sa top two teams sa Pool A.
Ang Tunisia amo ang naglutos sa Alas Men sa imbukada nga hampang nga kadungan man sang opening ceremony.#
HISTORIC WIN: Alas Pilipinas, ginlutos ang world no.
88 nga Alas Pilipinas batok sa World No.
21 kag powerhouse team nga Egypt sa ila sambuwa sa 2025 FIVB Men’s World Championship subong nga gab-i, Septyembre 16.
Ini ang una nga set kag match win sang Pilipinas sa FIVB Worlds.
Nanguna sa team ang captain nga si Bryan Bagunas nga may 23 points.
Nabutang na sa 1-1 ang standing sang host nation sa Pool A.
Sunod sini nga makasumpong ang world no.
Antes sini nga match, nalutos ang Alas sa imbukada nga hampang kag sa debut sini sa FIVB Worlds sa kamot sang World No.
World boxing champion Ricky “The Hitman” Hatton, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 46
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 46 ang kilala nga world boxing champion nga si Ricky “The Hitman” Hatton.
Nagtaliwan na ang world boxing champion nga si Ricky ‘The Hitman’ Hatton sa edad nga 46 anyos.
Suno sa report, nasapwan si Hatton sa sulod mismo sang iya puluya-an sa Greater Manchester, UK.
Ginapatihan nga wala sang foul play nga na-involve sa iya kamatayon.
Ini ang natabo pila ka bulan matapos gin-anunsyo ni Hatton ang iya plano nga pagbalik sa boxing ring para sa isa ka exhibition match nga ginplano ipatigayon sa Disyembre.
Si Hatton kilala nga bukas sa publiko parte sa iya mga pagpakigbato sa mental health issues kag drug addiction.
Sa pihak sang mga pagsulay, nakaluwas siya sa pila ka insidente sang pagpanginmatay kag madinalag-on nga nakig-uli sa iya pamilya, matapos ini matutukan kag maatipan ang iya mental health.
Sa iya madinalag-on nga karera, nagdaog si Hatton sang madamo nga world championships kag UK titles.
Nahibaluan nga ginhatagan siya sang dungog nga Fighter of the Year sang 2015.
Matandaan nga sa tuig 2009, gintumba siya ni Manny Pacquiao sang makaduha ka beses sa first round kag dalayon nga gin-knock out sa ikaduha nga round.
Ini nga sambuwa ang ginkilala bilang Knockout of the Year sang The Ring Magazine.
Naghimo sang historic win si Terrence Crawford matapos ginpierde si Canelo Alvarez paagi sa unanimous decision kag nangin pinakabag-o nga undisputed super middleweight champion sa ila away nga ginpatigayon sa Allegiant Stadium sa Las Vegas.
Sa amo nga kadalag-an, si Crawford ang nangin pinakauna nga lalaki nga boxer sa four-belt era nga mangin undisputed sa tatlo ka weight classes.
Ginhimo niya ini sa atubang sang 70,482 ka tawo sa e stadium kag kalabanan mga fans ni Alvarez.
Alas Pilipinas, nalutos sa imbukada sang FIVB men’s volleyball championships
Nalutos ang Alas Pilipinas sa imbukada sang FIVB men’s volleyball championships.
Duha pa ka beses nga naka-abanse ang Pilipinas sa third set apang madasig man ini nga nalubad sang Tunisia nga 11-time champion sang African Volleyball Championship.
Sunod nga makasambuwa sang Alas Pilipinas ang Egypt.
Nagsaka si Alex Eala sa ika-61 puwesto sa pinakabag-o nga WTA ranking matapos ang iya maragtason nga kadalag-an sa Guadalajara 125 Open sa Mexico, kun sa diin siya ang nangin labing una nga Pilipina ang nagdaog sang WTA singles title.
Bangud sa nasambit kadalag-an, nagtaas sang 14 nga ranggo si Eala humalin sa anay ika-75.
Ginlutos niya si Panna Udvardy sang Hungary sa final, 1-6, 7-5, 6-3, sa isa ka come-from-behind win.
Ang 20-anyos nga tennis star ang anay naglab-ot sa career-high ranking nga World No.
56, amo ang ikatlo nga seed sa palaabuton nga Sao Paulo Open, isa ka WTA 250 tournament nga pagahiwaton subong nga semana sa Brazil.
Antes sini, nakuha man ni Eala ang iya una nga kadalag-an sa Grand Slam main draw sa US Open, bag-o na-eliminate sa second round.
Kilala nga personalidad sa NBA, ginpasindunggan sa 2025 Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame
Ginhatagan sang mataas nga pasidungog ang pila ka mga kilala nga personalidad sa National basketball Association (NBA) sa ginhiwat nga 2025 Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame sang Sabado, Setyembre 6 (oras sa Amerika).
Suno kay Anthony, apisar wala siya nakakuha sang NBA championship, ginpabutyag ni Anthony nga may bilidhon siya nga kontribusyon sa kasaysayan sang basketball.
Si Dwight Howard, nga kaupod man ni Anthony sa 2008 U.S.
Olympic “Redeem Team,” naghatag sang emosyonal nga speech kun sa diin ginpasidunggan niya ang iya pamilya, ilabi na ang iya iloy.
Kalakip man sa ginpasidunggan amo ang tatlo ka WNBA icons nga sanday Sue Bird, Maya Moore, kag Sylvia Fowles.
Ini ang labing una nga tion nga tatlo ka WNBA players ang dululungan nga gin-induct sa isa ka batch.
HISTORIC FIRST: Alex Eala, una nga Filipino nga nakabulsa sang WTA title
Nakahimo sang maragtas si Alex Eala bilang labing-una nga Filipino nga nakakuha sang titulo sa Women’s Tennis Association (WTA).
Isa ka daku nga comeback ang ginhimo sang 20-anyos nga Pinay player sang ginlutos sini si Panna Udvardy sang Hungary sa final game, 1-6, 7-5, 6-3, sa Guadalajara 125 Open sa Mexico.
Natapos ang hampang pasado alas kuwatro kaina sang kaagahon oras diri sa Pilipinas.
Nagapang-75 si Eala sa world ranking samtang ang iya naman nga ginlutos nga player ang nagapang-134.
Ini nga kadalag-an amo man ang una nga singles title ni Eala subong nga tuig matapos sini nadag-an ang Open Araba en Femenino sa Espanya sang Hulyo 2024.
Sang Hunyo, nagkabos si Eala kag nangin runner-up sa Eastbourne Open sang nakatapak siya sa labing-una nga tion sa WTA-level finals.
Antes sa Guadalajara 125 Open, naghampang si Eala sa main draw sang US Open kun sa diin nakalab-ot siya sa second round.
Sunod siya nga magapasakop sa Sao Paolo Open sa Brazil.
Eala, sulod na sa finals sang Guadalajara 125 Open
Ini matapos nga mangibabaw sa semifinals batok kay American kayla Day, 6-2, 6-3 sa hampang nga ginhiwat sa Mexico.
Apisar nangin mahinay ang umpisa ni Eala sa fisrta set kun sa diin naka-abanse si Day sang 0-2 apang wala ini ginpabay-an sang Pinay tennis player.
Ini man ang ikaduha nga finals appearance ni Eala sa WTA final.
Alex Eala, nag-abante na sa semis sang Guadalajara 125 Open
Sulod na ang pambato sang Pilipinas nga si Alex Eala sa semifinals sang Guadalajara 125 Open sa Mexico.
Sini nga kaagahon oras diri sa Pilipinas, ginlutos sang 20-anyos nga tennis sensation si Nicole Fossa Huergo sang Italya, 7-6(2), 6-2, sa quarterfinals.
Ginpatigayon ang sambuwa inoras lang matapos nagdaog si Eala batok sa American player nga si Varvara Lepchenko sa Round of 16.
Halos isa ka adlaw nga na-suspend ang amo nga match (sa deciding set) bangud sa ulan.
Sa semifinals sa Sabado, atubangon ni Eala si Kayla Day sang Amerika.
Antes sa iya hampang sa Mexico, nakapasakop ang Pinay tennis star sa main draw sang US Open kun sa diin nakalab-ot ini sa second round.#
Gilas Youth, gintambakan sang New Zealand sang 31-puntos nga abanse sa FIBA U16 Asia Cup
Natapos ang Gilas Pilipinas Youth sa group stage sang FIBA U16 Asia Cup nga may 1-2 nga record matapos nga nalutos sa kamot sang New Zealand, 85-54, sa hampang nga ginpatigayon sa Mongolia.
Madasig nga nakahimo sang 15-1 nga abanse ang Junior Tall Blacks kag wala na nakabalos ang Gilas sa una nga otso minutos sang ball game.
Nagdominar man ang New Zealand sa rebounding (61-34) kag sa shooting (41.3% kontra 26%).
Si Liam Anthony Keogh ang nanguna sa ila nga may 17 puntos, samtang si Jhustin Hallare ang nagpanguna para sa Gilas nga may 13 puntos.
Nakasandig ang tyansa sang Pilipinas nga makasulod sa resulta sang hampang sang Chinese Taipei kag Indonesia, kun sa diin tatlo lang ka teams sa kada grupo ang makasulod sa masunod nga round.#
Hidilyn Diaz kag gobyerno, magatukod sang ‘Weightlifting Academy’
Magabuligay si Olympic gold medalist Hidilyn Diaz kag ang mga ahensya sang gobyerno sa pagtukod sang pinakadako nga weightlifting academy sa pungsod.
Upod sa proyekto ang Philippine Sports Commission, Department of Education, kag Department of Budget and Management, nga may handum nga pabakuron ang mga programa sang isports sa mga eskwelahan, suno sa direktiba ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Ginpahayag ni Chairman Pato Gregorio sang Philippine Sports Commission nga si Diaz ang mangin pangulo sa pagtudlo sang weightlifting sa masobra 300 ka eskwelahan sa bug-os nga pungsod.
Ginsuportahan man sang Department of Budget and Management ang inisyatibo, nga may ginplano nga pondo nga P180 milyon para sa proyekto.
Tinutuyo sang programa nga mapatindog ang bag-o nga henerasyon sang mga atleta paagi sa HD Weightlifting Academy ni Diaz nga yara sa Rizal.
Nagsaka si Alex Eala sa pinakaulihi nga rankings sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) apisar nalutos ini sa Round 2 sang 2025 US Open sa New York.
Nagsulod ang Filipina tennis star sa tournament nga nagapang-75, apang nagtaas na ini subong sa no.
Kasunod ini sang iya maragtason nga kadalag-an sa first-round sa iya debut sa main draw.
Si Cristina Bucsa naman sang Espanya nga amo ang naglutos sa iya sa Round 2 ang nagapang-72 na subong nga may 915 points halin sa nauna nga rank sini nga No.
Si Eala amo ang una nga player halin sa Pilipinas nga nakadaog sa hampang sa main draw sa Grand Slam.
15 kag 14th-seeded nga si Clara Tauson sang Denmark, 6-3, 2-6, 7-6 (13-11).
Ang US Open amo ang katapusan nga Slam subong nga season.
Sa Septyembre 8-14, magahampang naman si Eala sa main draw sang 2025 Sao Paulo Open sa Brazil.#
Alex Eala, haharap sa mas matinding hamon sa second round ng US Open kontra Cristina Bucsa
Bagong kasaysayan ang isinulat ni Alex Eala matapos ang panalo sa unang round ng US Open.
Ngayon, haharap siya sa mas batikang kalaban mula sa Spain.
Maghaharap sina Alex Eala ng Pilipinas at Cristina Bucsa ng Spain sa second round ng 2025 US Open ngayong Miyerkules sa New York, bagamat hindi pa inaanunsyo ang eksaktong oras ng laban.
Si Eala ang kauna-unahang Pilipinong manlalaro na nagtala ng panalo sa Grand Slam main draw matapos talunin si Clara Tauson ng Denmark.
Samantala, si Bucsa ay dinala sa ikalawang round matapos ang panalo laban kay Claire Liu.
Ayon sa tala ng Women’s Tennis Association, parehong may lakas at karanasan ang dalawang players—kaya inaasahan ang isang dikit na laban sa pagitan nila.
Alex Eala, nagdaog sa first round sang US Open batok kay Clara Tauson
Nagdaug ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa first round sang US Open.
Ginlutos niya ang World Number 15 nga si Clara Tauson sang Denmark nga may score nga 6-3, 2-6, 7-6(11).
Nagdominar si Eala sa una nga set apang nakabawi si Tauson sa ikaduha nga set.
Pagsulod sa third set, halos mapierde ang Pinay tennis sensation apang nagpangibabaw ang iya talento batuk kay Tauson.
Samtang, magahulat si Eala kon sin-o ang iya atubangon sa ikaduha nga round sang US Open.
Filipino Olympic pole vaulter EJ Obiena, handa na sa paghampang sa World Athletics Championship sa Japan
Preparado na si Olympic pole vaulter EJ Obiena sa iya nga pagpasakop sa Japan para sa isa ka tournament.
Magapasakop si Obiena sa qualifying round sa maabot nga Septyembre 13 kag sa Septyembre 15 naman para sa finals sa Tokyo.
Ini kasunod sa hiwaton nga World Athletics Championship sa amo nga pungsod.
Sa madumduman sadtong 2023, nakuha sini ang silver medal sa nasambit nga tournament paagi sa 6.00 meters clearance.
Base sa estimate nga Forbes nga may yara sang kabug-usan nga manngad ang 20-time Grand Slam Champion nga $1.1 billion.
Halin ang manggad sang 44-anyos nga retired Swiss tennis star sa iya clothing kag shoe company.
Apisar retired na ini, magahampang sagihapon si Roger sa isa ka exhibition game sa Shanghai Masters ukon “Roger Federer and Friends Celebrity Doubles Match”.
Brazilian superstar Leila Barros, magabalik sa Pilipinas para sa finals sang FIVB Worlds
Magabalik ang volleyball legend nga si Leila Barros sa Pilipinas para sa pag-host sang pungsod sang Men’s World Championship 2025.
Magatambong ang Brazilian superstar sa semifinals kag finals sa tournament sa Septyembre 27-28 sa Mall of Asia Arena kasunod sang personal nga imbitasyon nagikan kay Asian Volleyball Confederation kag Philippine National Volleyball Federation president Ramon “Tats” Suzara.
Nakahampang anay si Barros sa Manila sang 2000 FIVB Grand Prix kun sa diin nakuha sini ang suporta sang Pinoy volleyball fans.
Kabahin man siya sang Brazilian national team nga nagdaog sang bronze medals sa 1996 kag 2000 Olympics
Sa pihak nga bahin, makasumpong naman sang Alas Pilipinas sa imbukada nga hampang sa tournament ang African powerhouse nga Tunisia apang wala ang ila star scorer nga si Wassim Ben Tara.
Nagapang-42 ang Tunisia sa world rankings kag nagpang-lima sa 2023 African Championship kag nagpang-16 naman sa 2022 World Championship.
Ang Italian tactician nga nagserbe nga deputy sa 2008 Beijing Olympics bronze-medal team sang Russia nga si Camillo Placi amo ang head coach sang Tunisia samtang si Angiolino Frigoni naman ang para sa Alas Pilipinas Men.#
Alex Eala, nag-abot na sa New York para sa US Open
Nag-abot na sa New York si Alex Eala samtang nagapreparar para sa iya debut women’s main draw sang US Open.
Gin-share sang 20-anyos nga Filipina tennis player ang iya nga laragway sa Big Apple antes mag-umpisa ang iya ikatatlo nga Grand Slam main draw tournament subong nga tuig, kasunod man sang iya pagpasakop sa French Open kag Wimbledon.
Ini ang iya una nga tournament halin sang Montreal Open sa Canada kun sa diin nalutos siya sa first round sa kamot ni Markéta Vondroušová sang Czech Republic.
Antes sini, ginlaktawan ni Eala ang Cincinnati Open kag Monterey Open rason nga nag-us-os sa World No.
70 sa rankings kasunod sang iya ginsuprer nga shoulder injury.
Nakakuha si Eala sang spot sa main draw sang 2025 US Open bangud sang padayon sini nga pagsaka sa Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) rankings nga nag-umpisa sa iya maayo nga performance sa Miami Open.
Hidilyn Diaz, hugot nga ginpanginwala ang koneksyon sa peke nga online gambling endorsement
Hugot nga ginpanginwala sang Olympic gold medalist nga si Hidilyn Diaz ang isa ka peke nga video nga nagalapta sa internet, sa diin gina-alegar nga gina-endorso sini ang isa ka online gambling app.
Suno kay Diaz, himo-himo lamang ang video kag nagagamit sang artificial intelligence agud ilugon ang iya tingog.
Ang kontrobersyal nga video nagapakita sang isa ka babaye nga daw si Diaz nga nagahatag sang mga instruksyon kon paano mag-download sang isa ka gambling application.
Apang sa isa ka post sang Martes, ang weightlifting champion nag-insister nga indi siya ang subject sang video.
Naghingyo man si Diaz sa publiko nga i-report ang misleading post agud matapna ang paglapta sang sala nga impormasyon.
Si Hidilyn Diaz ang labing una nga Filipino athlete nga nakakuha sang bulawan nga medalya sa Olympics, matapos ang iya kadalag-an sa women’s 55kg weightlifting event sa Tokyo 2020.
Magluwas sa iya mga pasidungog sa patag sang sports, kilala man siya bilang isa ka aktibo nga humalambal batuk sa mga isyung panlipunan kag isa ka manugsakdag sang mga pamatan-on kag edukasyon.
Pinay triathlete, inilampaso ang mga kalaban sa Latvia junior triathlon
Muling pinahanga ng batang Pinay triathlete na si Kira Ellis ang mundo ng sports matapos niyang dominahin ang Junior Women’s category ng 2025 Europe Triathlon Cup sa Riga, Latvia nitong weekend.
Sa kabila ng pagiging kaisa-isang Pilipina at Asyana sa kompetisyon, ipinamalas ni Ellis, 18, ang kanyang husay matapos magtala ng kabuuang oras na 1:05:07 sa 750-meter swim, 22-kilometer bike, at 5.1-kilometer run, sapat upang talunin ang 15 iba pang international contenders.
Naitala si Ellis ng 12:09 sa swim, 34:27 sa bike, at 17:36 sa run, na nagpatibay ng kanyang panalo sa isa sa pinakamalaking triathlon meet sa Europa para sa junior level.
Lalong kahanga-hanga ang tagumpay na ito lalo’t kagagaling lamang niya sa anim na buwang pahinga dahil sa shin splints o medial tibial stress syndrome.
Dagdag ang panalo sa kanyang koleksyon ng mga titulo gaya ng 2024 Asia Triathlon Junior Cup gold medal sa Malaysia at SEA Games gold medal noong 2023 sa Cambodia bilang bahagi ng mixed team relay.
Kasalukuyang freshman si Ellis sa Queens University of Charlotte sa Amerika, at inaasahang magiging pangunahing pambato ng Pilipinas sa darating na 2025 SEA Games sa Thailand ngayong Disyembre.
Samantala, pumangalawa si Germany’s Walter Sarah sa oras na 1:05:22, habang pumangatlo naman si Belgium’s Luca Vanderbruggen na nagtala ng 1:05:17.
Gilas Pilipinas, nagtaas ang ranking sa katapusan sang 2025 FIBA Asia Cup
Nagtaas ang ranking sang Pilipinas sa katapusan sang 2025 FIBA Asia Cup nga ginhiwat sa Saudi Arabia.
Base sa ginpagwa nga rankings sang FIBA, ang Pilipinas ang yara subong sa ika-pito nga pwesto.
Mas mataas ini kun ipaanggid sa ika siyam nga pwesto sang pungsod sa 2022 FIBA Asia Cup nga ginpatigayon sa Jakarta, Indonesia.
Kun balikan ang performance sang Gilas Pilipinas sa nakaligad nga paindis-indis, natigayon sini nga makalab-ot sa quarterfinals sa pihak sang duha ka sunod-sunod nga kapierdihan sa elimination stage.
Sa katapusan nalutos ini sang 2025 nga kampeon nga Australia sa quarterfinals, 84-60, nga nagdul-ong sa 2-3 nga rekord sa Asian meet.
Sang 2022 Asia Cup, napaslawan ang Gilas nga makalab-ot sa quarterfinals matapos nalutos sa Japan, 102-81.
Katapusan nga gin-uyatan sang national team ang FIBA Asia Cup trophy sang 1985.
Sang 2013 Cup, nagbalik sa finals ang Team Philippines apang nadulaan sang swerte matapos nalutos sang China, 67-78.
Samtang, liwat nga magapasakop ang national team sa FIBA World Cup Qualifiers nga magasugod sa Nobyembre 2025.
Quentin Millora-Brown, opisyal na nga ginkilala sang FIBA bilang local player
Ginkumpirma sang Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP) nga opisyal na nga gin-classify si Quentin Millora-Brown bilang isa ka local player sa idalom sang FIBA Management and Administration Platform (MAP).
Ini nga 6-foot-10 Filipino-American center ang produkto sang UP Fighting Maroons nga nagbulig sa unibersidad nga magkampyon sa UAAP Season 87 men’s basketball sang 2024.
Una na nga gin-abi-abi ni Gilas head coach Tim Cone ang report nga mahimo mangin eligible si Millora-Brown nga maghampang para sa Pilipinas.
Excited man ang coach nga ilakip sa lineup sang national team ang former UP big man.
Ini nga development ang ginalantaw nga makabulig sa Gilas sa pagsabak sini sa FIBA World Cup 2027 Asian Qualifiers umpisa sa Nobyembre.
Nagtupa ang Pilipinas sa Group C kun sa diin makasumpong sini ang Guam, New Zealand, kag ang Australia.
Bag-o lang nagtakop ang kampanya sang Philippine national team sa FIBA Asia Cup 2025 sa Saudi Arabia sang nalutos ini sa kamot sang two-time defending champion nga Australia Boomers sa quarterfinal match.
Filipinas natapos na ang kampanya sa 2025 Serenity Cup
Nabigo ang Philippine women’s national football team ng bansa na Filipinas sa 2025 AFF Women’s Championship (MSIG Serenity Cup).
Ito ay matapos na naging 1-1 draw ang laban nila kontra Myanmar sa torneo na ginanap sa Vietnam.
Kinailangan kasi nilang manalo matapos na mabigo sila sa Australia sa score na 1-0 nitong Linggo.
Dahil dito ang ranked 39 na Filipinas ay nagtapos sa ikatlong puwesto sa Group B na mayroong apat na puntos sa +6 goal difference.
Habang ang Myanmar at Australia ay abanse na sa semifinals laban sa top teams ng Group A na Vietnam at Thailand.
EARLY EXIT: Filipinas, nagpaalam na sa 2025 AFF Women’s Championship
Napaslawan ang Philippine women’s football team nga madepensahan ang titulo sini sa 2025 AFF Women’s Championship ukon kilala man nga MSIG Serenity Cup.
Ini matapos nagtakop ang hampang sini batok sa Myanmar sa 1-1 draw paagi sa isahanon nga goal ni Nina Mathelus sa ika-71 nga minuto sang sambuwa sa Lach Tray Stadium sa Haiphong, Vietnam.
Nagsugod ang kampanya sang Pilipinas subong nga tuig nga may 7-0 nga kadalag-an batok sa Timor-Leste, apang wala ini nasustiner sang nalutos ang team sa kamot sang Australia sa ikaduha nga hampang.
Bangud sa draw, ikatatlo lamang ang team sa Group B nga may 4 puntos sa isa ka daog, isa ka draw, kag isa ka kalutusan.
Nagpanguna sa group phase ang Myanmar nga may 7 points samtang nagpangaduha naman ang Australia nga may six points, kag pareho sila nga nag-abante sa semifinals kaupod sa Thailand kag host nga Vietnam nga nangin top two teams man sa ila nga grupo.
Gilas, nataktak na sa FIBA Asia Cup 2025 matapos ginlutos sang Australia sa quarterfinals
Nagtakop na ang kampanya sang Gilas Pilipinas sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup matapos nalutos sa kamot sang two-time defending champion kag powerhouse team nga Australia, 84-60, sa quarterfinal match subong nga gab-i, Agusto 13.
Napaslawan man si Coach Tim Cone kag ang Nationals nga makuha ang target nga gold medal, apang mas maayo ini nga performance ipaanggid sa nagligad nga FIBA Asia Cup kun sa diin nagpang-siyam lamang ang Gilas.
Sa imbukada pa lang nga quarter sa hampang sa King Abdullah Sports City sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, gina-uyatan na sang Boomers ang 29-12 nga abanse batok sa Philippine national team.
Nanguna sa players sang Pilipinas batok sa world no.
7 si Kevin Quiambao nga may 17 points kag four rebounds.
Sa pihak nga bahin, si Justin Brownlee nga amo ang nagsalbar sa Gilas kag nagpanguna sa overtime win batok sa Kingdom of Saudi Arabia ang nalimitahan lamang subong sa 10 points, 4 assists, kag 3 rebounds.
Sunod nga makit-an ang Gilas sa 2027 World Cup Qualifiers nga maga-umpisa sa Nobyembre 2025.
Una sini nga atubangon ang Guam sa back-to-back games.
Matabo ang first game sa home court sang kasumpong samtang ang ikaduha naman ang patigayunon sa Disyembre 1 diri sa Pilipinas.#
Alex eala, balik ensayo na bilang pagpanghanda sa US Open
Balik ensayo na si Pinay tennis star Alex Eala bilang pagpanghanda sa pag-atubang niya sa US Open.
Sa iya social media account makita ang pila ka kuha nga mga litrato samtang ini ang naga-ensayo sa hard courts sang Rafa Nadal Academy sa Mallorca, Spain.
Nahibaluan nga nag-atras na ini sa pag-intra sa Cincinnatti tournament sini nga semana bangud sa shoulder injury.
Sang Hulyo 28, napaslawan nga magdaog si Eala kay Marketa Vondrousova sang Czech Republic sa Canada Open.
Bangud sini, nagnubo man ang ranking ni eala sa Womens Tennis Association nga humalin sa ranked 65 ang nangin ranked 68 na lamang ini.
FIBA Asia Cup: Gilas, sulod na sa quarterfinals matapos ginlutos ang Saudi sa overtime
Ginsalbar na naman ni Justin Brownlee ang Gilas Pilipinas!
Abante na ang national team sa quarterfinals sang FIBA Asia Cup 2025 matapos ginlutos ang Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, 95-88.
Napwersa ni Brownlee nga mag-overtime ang hampang paagi sa tres nga napasulod sini sang manugtapos na ang fourth quarter kag nagpatas sa hampang sa 79-79.
Siya man ang nanguna sa team nga may 29 points, 5 assists, kag 4 rebounds.
Ginsundan ini ni AJ Edu nga may 17 points, 11 rebounds, kag 4 assists, samtang nagtapos man si Kevin Quiambao nga may 17 points.
Ini na ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an sang Pilipinas sa tournament matapos ginlutos man ang Iraq sang Sabado sang hapon.
Nangin mabudlay ang banas sini bangud nga napierde ini sang Chinese Taipei kag New Zealand sa group phase.
Gilas Pilipinas 95 – Brownlee 29, Edu 17, Quiambao 17, Ramos 13, Fajardo 6, Tamayo 5, Thompson 4, Newsome 4, Malonzo 0, Aguilar 0, Perez 0.
Alas Pilipinas Women, liwat nga nakuha ang bronze medal sa 2025 Southeast Asian
Sa ikaapat nga sunod-sunod nga higayon, nakuha liwat sang Alas Pilipinas Women ang bronze medal sa 2025 Southeast Asian (SEA) V.
League Leg 2 nga ginpatigayon sa Vietnam.
Nalutos sang Pilipinas ang Indonesia sa straight sets, 25-17, 25-17, 28-16, agud maseguro ang podium finish.
Antes sini, nalutos anay ang Alas batok sa Thailand kag Vietnam, nga nangin rason nga wala sila nakalab-ot sa finals.
Isa sa mga nanguna sa kadalag-an amo si Alyssa Solomon, nga apisar may injury sa iya nawala nga tuhod, padayon nga nagpakita sang determinasyon sa court.
Dako man ang kontribusyon nanday Angel Canino, Dell Palomata, kag Bella Belen nga nangin liyabe sa pag-angkon sang team sang medalya.
Todo-dayaw ang coach sang Iraq sa team sang Pilipinas nga nagahampang sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
Kasunod ini sang ila nga do-or-die match kahapon sang hapon, Agusto 9, kun sa diin nagdaog ang Gilas, 66-57, nga rason kun ngaa nakaabante ini sa classification phase para sa tyansa sa quarterfinals.
Sa first quarter sang hampang, abanse na ang Iraqis, 18–12, nagpatas sa 33-33 sa second half; apang naagaw sang Pilipinas ang momentum sa third period nga nag-umpisa sa sunod-sunod nga tres ni Dwight Ramos.
Dalayon nga nakuha sang Nationals ang kadalag-an samtang nataktak naman ang Iraq nga wala gid sang daog sa Group D.
Pahayag pa sini, para sa iya, sulod sa Top 4 pa-Top 6 ang Pilipinas: “For me, the Philippines is [a] top four or top six team here.”
Nahibaluan nga pang-92 naman ang Iraq sa world rankings sang FIBA.#
2 Japanese boxers nga naghampang sa pareho lang nga card, napatay bangud sa brain injuries
Patay ang duha ka Japanese fighters inadlaw matapos nagsuprer sang brain injuries kasunod sang ila separado nga hampang sa pareho lang nga card.
Base sa boxing associations kag media reports, Byernes sang nagtaliwan si Shigetoshi Kotari samtang Sabado naman sang ginbawian sang kabuhi si Hiromasa Urakawa.
Pareho sila nga 28-anyos kag pareho man nga naghampang sa Korakuen Hall sa Tokyo sang Agusto 2.
Sandig sa reports, sila nga duha ang pareho man nga ginpaidalom sa operasyon bangud sa subdural hematoma ukon pagdugo sa sulod sang bagol.
Nahibaluan nga si Urakawa ang nalutos sa kamot ni Yoji Saito paagi sa knockout; samtang si Kotari naman ang nagtapos sa draw sa 12-round bout batok kay Yamato Hata.
Nagsaka ang Pinoy boxing icon nga si Manny Pacquiao sa number one sa World Boxing Council (WBC) welterweight ranking.
Ini matapos ang iya nga comeback fight batok sa American boxer nga si Mario Barrios nga nagtakop sa majority draw sang nagligad nga bulan sa Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
Kasunod sini nga ranking sa WBC, posible nga may matabo nga rematch batok kay Barrios.
46-anyos na ang eight-division world champion kag sa iya hampang batok sa 30-anyos nga American fighter, siya ang underdog, apang sa aktwal na nga sambuwa, leading pa siya sa tanan nga scorecards sa nine rounds kag kun nagdaog kuntani ini sang amo nga tion, siya ang mangin second-oldest world champion sa boxing history.
Gina-uyatan sini ang record nga 62 wins, 8 losses, kag 2 draws, nga may 39 knockouts.
Una na nga naghatag sang clue ang Hall-of-Famer nga maga-away siya liwat sa Disyembre, apang wala ini sang kumpirmasyon kun sa Estados Unidos sa gihapon ang iya hampang.
WALANG UUWI: Gilas Pilipinas, ginlutos ang Iraq, buhi pa ang paglaum sa FIBA Asia Cup
Nakadaog na gid man ang Gilas Pilipinas sa isa ka hampang sa nagapadayon nga 2025 FIBA Asia Cup!
Makaginhawa na gamay ang Filipino basketball fans matapos nga na-secure na ang pwesto sang national team sa knockout playoffs kasunod sang kadalag-an batok sa Iraq, 66-57, sa do-or-die match subong nga hapon sa King Abdullah Sports City sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
Ginauyatan sang squad ni Coach Tim Cone ang No.
Kun sin-o man ang magadaog sa amo nga sambuwa, maga-abante ini sa quarterfinals kag maatubang sa top seed sang Group A.
Nanguna sa Nationals ang star guard nga si Dwight Ramos nga may 21 points kag five rebounds.
Ginsalo sini ang masami nagapanguna nga si Justin Brownlee nga binudlayan subong nga matchup nga naka-skor lamang sang eight points sa 3-of-12 shooting from the field nga may seven boards kag four dimes.
Si Ramos ang naghatag sang momentum sa Gilas paagi sa duha ka tres nga naghatag sa team sang 41-35 lead, tubtub nga nag-asud-asud na ang scores kag nakadangat sa 18-points ang abanse sang Pilipinas.
Naglagas pa ang Iraq kag napanubo sa syete puntos ang lead, 57-50, paagi sa baslanay nanday Thulfiqar Hammoodi kag Mohammed Almahdi Abbas sa fourth quarter.
Apang nagbalos si Calvin Oftana sang three-pointer agud mabalik ang 10-point lead, kag nangin kumportable na ini nga abanse sa Gilas agud dalayon nga ma-sustain ang hampang.
Antes ini nga showdown, duha ka beses nga nalutos ang Gilas sa kamot sang Chinese Taipei kag New Zealand.#
Filipinas, ginlutos ang Timor Leste, 7-0, sa imbukada sang Asean title defense
Gin-umpisahan sang Philippine women’s football team ang title defense sini sa Asean Women’s Championship sa Phu Tho, Vietnam paagi sa paglutos sa Timor Leste, 7-0.
May tag-duha ka goals ang veteran players nga sanday Quinley Quezada kag Dionesa Tolentin sa tournament nga kilala man nga MSIG Serenity Cup.
Naka-skor man sanday Aaliyah Schinaman, Adelaide Wyrzynski, kag si Hali Long.
Antes sini, nagsaka ang Filipinas sa ika-39 nga pwesto sa FIFA Women’s World Rankings.
Sunod sini nga atubangon sa Domingo ang Australia U-23 team nga bag-o lang nagsuprer sang 2-1 loss sa Myanmar sa hampang sa Group B.
Gilas, ginlutos sang New Zealand, 0-2 sa Group D sang FIBA Asia Cup 2025
Nagsuprer ang Gilas Pilipinas sang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga kalutusan sa FIBA Asia Cup 2025.
Ginkabos ang national team sa comeback attempt sini batok sa New Zealand, 94-86, sa group clash sa Pool D sang tournament, Agusto 8 (PST).
Gintinguhaan pa kuntani sang Pilipinas nga makalagas sa second half matapos naglab-ot sa 18-puntos ang abanse sang Tall Blacks nga nagpaulan sang tres sa second period.
37 points, 5 rebounds, kag three assists ang nahimo ni Justin Brownlee samtang may 19 points, 4 rebounds, 3 steals naman si Dwight Ramos, apang wala nakasarang sa Kiwis nga subong 2-0 na kaangay sa Chinese Taipei sa group stage.
Buhi pa ang paglaom nga maka-abante ang Gilas sa masunod nga round kun malutos sini ang Iraq sa Sabado, alas kuwatro sang hapon.
Kun magdaog ang national team, ibutang sila sa classification para sa quarterfinals.#
Gilas Pilipinas, nagsaka ang pwesto sa latest FIBA Asia Cup 2025 power rankings
Nagsaka ang pwesto sang Gilas Pilipinas samtang nga nagahilapit ang pag-umpisa sang FIBA Asia Cup 2025 sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
Halin sa ika-walo nga pwesto, nagapang-anum na subong ang national team base sa ginlista sang FIBA sa latest Asia Cup Power Rankings.
Ang paglukso sang Gilas ang kasunod man sang duha ka sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an sini sa tune-up games nga amo ang hampang batok sa Macau kag mangin sa Jordan nga semifinalist sa FIBA Asia Cup sang 2022.
Suno pa sa rankings, nagapakita ini nga yara sa porma ang Gilas kag bisan wala si Kai Sotto, delikado gihapon sila nga kasumpong.
Nagapabilin naman sa numero uno nga pwesto ang Australia samtang nagasunod ang Japan.
2:00 buwas sa kaagahon (oras sa Pilipinas) ang imbukada nga hampang sang Gilas sa group stage batok sa Chinese Taipei.
Matabo naman sa Huwebes, 11:00 sa gab-i ang rematch vs.
New Zealand kag ang katapusan nga hampang sa group stage sa Sabado, 4:00 sa hapon.
Ginakabig ni Gilas Pilipinas coach Tim Cone nga ang kadalag-an nila batok sa Jordan sa exhibition game ang isa ka challenge sa ila para sa FIBA Asia Cup.
Ginpahayag ni Cone nga apisar nagdaog sila batok sa Jordan sa score nga 75-61 ang indi pa sagihapon sila kampante sa pag-atubang nila batok sa Chinese Taipei sa Myerkules.
Dugang pa sini, tuman kadako ang kinalain sang mga hampang sa mismo nga Asia Cup kag ang duha ka exhibition games ang isa ka talaksan sang ila preparasyon.
Sa subong, may yara na sang duha nga kadalag-an kag wala pa sang pyerde ang Gilas sa exhibition games bag-o ang FIBA Asia Cup.
Pinoy boxer Jerwin Ancajas, daog batok kay Ruben Casero sang Uruguay
Nagdaog si Pinoy boxer Jerwin Ancajas batok kay Ruben Casero sang Uruguay.
Nakuha ni Ancajas ang majority decision nga daog sa sambuwa nga ginhiwat sa Long Beach, California.
Duha ka judges ang naghatag sang 80-72 nga pabor kay Ancajas samtang ang isa ang naghatag sang draw 76-76 sa super-bantanweight fight.
May yara sang 37 ka kadalag-an, apat ka pyerde kag duha ka draw nga may yara sang 24 knockouts ang anay International Boxing Federation super-flyweight champion.
Team Liquid Philippines nagkampeon sa E-Sport World Cup
Nagkampeon ang pambato ng bansa sa E-Sport World Cup na ginanap sa Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Tinalo ng Team Liquid Philippines ang Selangor Red Giants ng Malaysia sa score na 4-1 sa exclusive Mobile legends: Bang Bang (MLBB) Mid Season Cup.
Pinangunahan ni Sanford Marin “Sanford” Vinuya ang Pilipinas para mahigitan ang back-to-back na hanggang semifinals lamang ng bansa mula 2023 hanggang 2024.
Dahil dito ay lalaban sila para makamit ang ikalawang Southeast Asiang Games gold medal na gaganapin sa Bangkok sa buwan ng Disyembre.
Ito ang unang MSC na award ng Team Liquid at pang-apat na kabuuang ng bansa matapos na magwagi noogn 2018 ang Aether Main; noong 2021 ay Execration at noong 2022 ay nagkampeon ang RSG Philippines.
Gilas Pilipinas players, naka-abot na sa Saudi Arabia para sa FIBA Asia Cup nga magasugod sa Agosto 6
Nag-abot na sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia ang Gilas Pilipinas pila ka adlaw antes ang FIBA Asia Cup.
Ini ang ginpakigbahin sang Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas sa ila social media accounts.
Makita man sa picture si Gilas Pilipinas head coach Tim Cone upod sa iya deputies nga sanday Jong Uichico, Richard Del Rosario, kag Sean Chambers.
Pagasuguran sang Pilipinas ang ila kampanya sa Agosto 6 batok sa Chinese Taipei antes atubangon ang New Zealand sa Agosto 7.
Ang Iraq ang mangin katapusan nga assignment sang Pilipinas sa group stage sa Agosto 9.
Heart attack, rason sang kamatayon ni Hulk Hogan —medical examiner
Ginkumpirma sang medical examiner sa Florida, Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga heart attack ang ginkamatay sang wrestling legend nga si Hulk Hogan.
Sang nagligad nga semana sang nasapwan ang 71-anyos nga si Hogan ukon si Terry Bollea sa matuod nga pangalan nga wala na sang kabuhi sa sulod sang iya puluy-an sa amo nga estado.
Antes pa man ang iya kamatayon, nakasuprer pa ini sang leukemia kag atrial fibrillation kag irregular heart rhythm.
Bilang pagdumdom sa “Hulkster,” gin-anunsyo naman ni Florida Governor Ron DeSantis nga iga-half-staff ang flags sa tanan nga official buildings subong nga Byernes nga gindeklarar man nga “Hulk Hogan Day in Florida.”
Si Hogan amo ang ginakilala nga “biggest wrestling star of all time” nga nangin bantog sang dekada-80 kag dekada-90 kag mas nangin kilala pa sa iya pagsulod sa karera sang pag-arte.
Nakahimo man siya sang record bilang six-time World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Champion kag duha ka beses nga nabutang sa WWE Hall of Fame nga natabo sang 2005 kag sang 2020 bilang parte na sang New World Order.
Nasawi si Double Olympic champion Laura Dahlmeier matapos ang ginawa nitong pag-akyat.
Kinumpirma ng German Olympic Sports Confederation ang pagkasawi ng 31-anyos na retired German biathlete.
Base sa imbestigasyon na tinamaan ng nahulog na bato ang biktima habang ito ay umaakyat sa Laila Peak sa Karakoram mountain range.
Nagsagawa agad ng rescue operations matapos na magpakawala ng distress signal ang kasama nito sa pag-akyat na si Marina Eva.
Nagpaabot naman ng labis na kalungkutan si Thomas Weikert, pangulo ng German Olympic Sports Confederation.
Si Dahlmeier ay nagtala ng kasaysayn sa 2018 Winter Olympics ng maging babaeng biathelete na nagwagi ng gold medal sa sprint at pursuit events.
Nagwagi rin ito ng limang gintong medalya sa single world championship kung saan nagretiro na sito sa sports noong 2019 sa edad na 25.
Rhenz Abando, liwat maga-upod sa Anyang Red Boosters sa iya pagbalik sa Korean Basketball League
Liwat nga maga-upod si Rhenz Abando sa Anyang Red Boosters sa iya pagbalik sa Korean Basketball League (KBL), matapos ang masobra isa ka tuig nga pagbiya sa team.
Gin-anunsyo sang Red Boosters ang opisyal nga pagbalik ni Abando, nga isa ka dako nga bulig sa ila pag-angkon sang KBL championship sang 2022-2023 season.
Isa siya sa nangin liyabe sang ila nga kadalag-an batok sa Seoul SK Knights sa Game 7 sang finals.
Antes sini, ginpangunahan man sang anay NCAA Rookie MVP ang Anyang sa pagdaog sang titulo sa East Asia Super League (EASL) Champions Week sang Marso 2023.
Apang sang Mayo 2024, ginpahibalo ni Abando ang iya pagbiya sa team matapos ang duha ka tuig nga pagserbisyo.
Subong nga tuig, magabalik siya sa Anyang pila ka adlaw matapos niya ginbuligan ang Strong Group–Philippines sa ila kampanya sa William Jones Cup sa Taiwan.
Ginhingadlan man si Abando bilang kabahin sang inisyal nga roster sang Gilas Pilipinas para sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup, apang suno kay national team head coach Tim Cone, wala siya nakatambong sa mga ensayo sang team.
Sa gihapon, ginahulat sang mga fans ang iya kontribusyon sa pagbalik liwat sa international stage, kaupod ang isa sa mga powerhouse teams sang KBL.
FIBA: Gilas, ginlagas ang 21-pts nga abanse, ginlutos ang Macau antes ang Asia Cup campaign
Ginlutos sang Gilas Pilipinas ang Macau Black Bears, 103-98, sa send-off match sa Araneta Coliseum sa Cubao, Quezon City para sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup.
Ginlagas sang national team ang 21-puntos nga abanse sang kasumpong agud madepensahan ang home court antes magbyahe para sa tournament sa Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Nanguna sa nationals ang naturalized player nga si Justin Brownlee nga may 32 points, 15 rebounds, kag five assists.
Ini ang iya una nga hampang sa Pilipinas matapos ang pagpahuway bangud sa injury sa tudlo nga iya nakuha sa finals sa PBA Season 49 Commissioner’s Cup.
Nakadugang naman ang fan-favorite nga si Dwight Ramos sang 19 markers, six dimes, kag four boards, samtang si AJ Edu ang may yara sang 15 points.
Sanday Kevin Quiambao kag Scottie Thompson naman nakaamot sang tag-14 kag 10 points.
Sa Huwebes magabyahe na ang team padulong sa Saudi, kag may isa pa ka friendly game batok sa Jordan sa Agusto 2 antes ang pormal nga pagbukas sang Asia Cup.
Sa Agusto 6, atubangon sini ang Chinese Taipei; New Zealand sa Agusto 7; kag Iraq sa Agusto 9.#
(Photo: Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas/FB)
Kenneth Llover, may estilo ni Pacquiao ayon sa top boxing trainer
Inilarawan ng kilalang strength and conditioning coach na si Alex Ariza si Kenneth Llover bilang isang batang boksingerong may galaw at lakas na kahalintulad ng istilo ni boxing legend Manny Pacquiao.
Ayon kay Ariza, nakita niya ang potensyal ng undefeated Filipino boxer sa kabila ng pagiging baguhan nito sa propesyonal na boksing, dala ng taglay nitong bilis, footwork, at punching power.
Sinabi rin ni Ariza na halata ang impluwensiya ni Pacquiao sa istilo ng pagboboksing ni Llover.
Ibinahagi ni Ariza na matagal na siyang retirado sa larangan ng boksing sa Pilipinas, ngunit muling nahikayat na bumalik matapos siyang imbitahan na maging bahagi ng training team ni Llover.
Giit ng beteranong trainer, bagama’t mahaba pa ang landas na tatahakin ng batang boksingero, marami umano ang naaaliw sa kaniyang istilo at nakakakuha na ito ng pansin sa loob at labas ng bansa.
Aniya, may fan-friendly approach si Llover na maaaring magdala rito sa mas malaking tagumpay sa hinaharap.
Si Llover ay may perpektong rekord na 14 panalo at walang talo.
Mas lalong lumakas ang kaniyang pangalan matapos ang dalawang sunod na first-round stoppages sa Japan.
Kaugnay nito, nakipagkasundo na ang kaniyang promoter na si Gerry Peñalosa ng Gerrypens Promotions sa Kameda Promotions ng Japan para sa isang three-fight deal.
Nakatakda ang laban ni Llover kontra kay dating two-division world champion Luis Concepcion sa darating na Agosto 17 sa Winford Resort and Casino sa Maynila
Pro wrestling legend nga si Hulk Hogan, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 71-anyos ang wrestling legend nga si Hulk Hogan.
Sa inisyal nga impormasyon, ginbawian ini sang kabuhi sa iya balay sa Florida, USA bangud sa cardiac arrest, kag wala sang nakit-an nga foul play ukon suspicious activity.
Si Hogan nga Terry Bollea sa matuod nga pangalan amo ang ginakilala nga biggest wrestling star of all time nga nangin bantog sang 80s kag 90s kag mas nangin kilala pa sa iya pagsulod sa karera sang pag-arte.
Nakahimo man siya sang record bilang six-time World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Champion kag duha ka beses nga nabutang sa WWE Hall of Fame — sang 2005 kag sang 2020 bilang parte na sang New World Order.
Magluwas sa iya kataason nga 6’7,” nangin marka ni Hogan ang pagsuksok sang bandana, paggisi sang iya bayo, kag ang iya blonde nga handlebar nga bigote.
Nahibaluan nga ang debut ni Hogan sa cinema screens ang natabo sang 1982 sa film nga “Rocky 3”.
Nalantaw man siya sa mga pelikula nga “Without rules”, “Thunder in Paradise”, “Strongman Santa Claus”, kag sa TV series nga “Cool Walker” kag “Rescuers of Malibu”.
Naghatag naman sang tribute ang WWE sa daku nga kontribusyon ni Hulk sa professional wrestling sang dekada 80s.
Pila sa mga hampang sang PBA, dal-on sa Bahrain sa Disyembre
Gin-anunsyo sang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) nga dal-on sini ang pila sa mga hampang sang liga sa Bahrain sa Disyembre bilang parte sang mga aktibidad sa 50th season.
Pahayag ni Marcial, para ini sa PBA fans nga maka-enjoy sa paglantaw kag mga Pinoy nga indi makapuli sa Pilipinas agud maglantaw sang basketball sang paborito nila nga players sa liga.
Suno sa iya, tatlo ka teams ang magalupad pa-Bahrain sa Disyembre 15-17 kun sa diin isa ka team ang magahampang sang back-to-back games.
Ini nga mga hampang magadungan man sa National Day celebration sang Bahrain sa Disyembre 16.
“We’ll have the same format like in Dubai (2019) with three teams, back-to-back games yung isa,” pahayag sini kadungan sang short presser sa halftime sang Game 5 sang All-Filipino conference finals sa tunga sang San Miguel kag TNT sa Smart Araneta Coliseum kagab-i, Hulyo 23.
Wala na gindetalye sang opisyal kun ano nga teams ang pakadtuon sa Middle East.
Kinahanglan pa maghimo ang liga sang official schedule para sa season-opener nga Philippine Cup.#
CP3, maga-upod liwat sa Clippers sa iya 21st season sa NBA
Ginpili sang beterano nga point guard nga si Chris Paul nga magbalik sa Los Angeles Clippers para sa ginapanan-aw nga katapusan sini nga season sa National Basketball Association (NBA).
Suno kay Lawrence Frank, president sang basketball operations sang Clippers, nagsugtanay ang team kag si CP3 sa minimum deal nga $3.6 million ukon P205.36-million.
Antes ang desisyon, lakip sa nagpangaluyag sa 40-anyos nga guard amo ang Milwaukee Bucks, Charlotte Hornets, kag Dallas Mavericks.
Matandaan nga halin si Paul sa San Antonio Spurs sang nagligad nga season kag nakahampang sang 82 games.
Siya ang una nga player sa NBA history nga nakahampang sang 82 games sa isa lang ka season sa iya 20th season ukon mas madugay pa.
Sa pagbalik sang 12-time All-Star sa Los Angeles, magahampang siya sa iya 21st season nga mas malapit sa iya pamilya.
Matandaan nga anum ka seasons siya nga naghampang anay sa amo nga franchise (2011-12 tubtub 2016-17) kun sa diin siya nangin five-time All-Star.
Naga-uyat siya sang record nga 4,023 assists sa Clippers nga amo ang pinakamataas sa franchise history.
Siya man ang latest veteran addition sa Clippers matapos nakuha man ang shooting guard nga si Bradley Beal, power forward nga si John Collins kag center nga si Brook Lopez sa offseason.
Pinay billiard star Rubilen Amit umatras sa torneo sa Saudi
Sa kaniyang social media ay kinumpirma nito ang hindi pagsali na magsisimula ngayong Hulyo 21.
Sinabi nito na nagkaroon ito ng problema sa kalusugan kaya minabuti niyang huwag ng sumali.
Naging mahirap aniya ang nasabing desisyon subalit sinunod niya lamang ang payo ng kaniyang doctor kaya ito umatras na.
Mas mahalaga aniya na pangahalagahan ang kalusugan para sa mas maraming mga laban na susunod.
Ang mga lalahok na lamang sa nasabing torneo ay sina Johann Chua, Carlo Biado, Patric Gonzales, AJ Manas, Jefrey Roda, Bernie Regalario, ay James Aranas.
Hampang nanday Pacquiao kag Barrios, nagtakop sa majority draw
Nagapabilin sa Mexican-American boxer nga si Mario Barrios ang WBC welterweight title matapos nagtakop sa majority draw ang hampang nila ni eight-division world champion Manny Pacquiao subong nga adlaw, Hulyo 20.
Sa 12-round showdown sa MGM Grand Garden Arena sa Las Vegas, Nevada, isa ka judge ang nagpabor kay Barrios, 115-113, samtang duha naman ang nag-skor sang draw, 114-114.
Bangud sa desisyon, ginkabos ang 46-anyos nga Pinoy boxing icon nga ma-reset ang iya record bilang pinakatigulang nga welterweight champion, isa ka record nga nahimo niya sang ginlutos si Keith Thurman sang USA paagi sa split decision sang 2019 agud makuha ang WBA belt sa edad nga 40.
Matapos gin-anunsyo ang resulta, gin-ako ni Pacquiao nga nagpinsar siya nga siya ang nagdaog sa sambuwa.
Gindayaw man sini si Barrios sa ginpakita sini nga istilo sa ring.
Barrios is a wonderful fighter,” pahayag sini sa iya 30-anyos nga kasumpong.
Nahibaluan nga apat ka tuig na halin sang nagretiro si Pacquiao sa sini nga sports event matapos ginlutos ni Yordenis Ugas.
Sa official weigh-in sang Sabado, nagpahayag ini nga nalipay siya nga makabalik sa ring: “I’m so happy I’m back because boxing is my passion and I missed boxing.”#
Mark Magsayo, Eumir Marcial, pareho nga nagdaog sa undercard sang Pacquiao vs Barrios match
Pareho nga nagdaog sanday former featherweight world champion Mark “Magnifico” Magsayo kag Olympic bronze medalist Eumir Marcial sa ila tagsa ka hampang sa undercard sang Manny Pacquiao vs Mario Barrios match subong nga Domingo, Hulyo 20, sa MGM Grand sa Las Vegas, Nevada, USA.
Ginlutos ni Magsayo ang kasumpong sini nga Mexican nga si Jorge Mata via unanimous decision sa WBC Continental American super featherweight title bout.
Tatlo ka judges ang nagpabor sa Pinoy, 100-90, 100-90, 98-92 matapos ang 10 rounds.
Nagsaka na ang record sang former world champion sa 28-2 nga may 18 knockouts kag na-claim pa ang WBC Continental Americas belt.
Sa pihak nga bahin, gintumba naman ni Marcial sa third round ang American fighter nga si Bernard Joseph nga amo ang imbukada nga sambuwa sa undercard.
Kasunod sang third-round technical knockout win, nagsaka na sa 6-0 ang professional record sang Olympian nga may 4 knockouts.#
– Pacquiao kinahanglan magpabilin nga agresibo, suno sa mga analyst
Nagapati ang kilala nga boxing analyst nga si Atty.
Ed Tolentino nga kinahanglan magpangibabaw si 8-Division World Champion Manny Pacquiao sa mga una nga round sang iya kompetisyon kay Mario Barrios subong nga adlaw, Hulyo 20, agud may daku siya nga posibilidad nga magdaog.
Suno kay Tolentino, bisan ara gihapon kay Pacquiao ang kadasig kag kusog sang iya mga sumbag, indi na malikawan ang epekto sang edad nga posible magpabudlay sa iya performance sa ring.
Ginbuyagyag man sang analyst nga apat ka tuig nga nagpahuway si Pacquiao, samtang si Barrios nakasugata na sang mga bantog nga boksidor pareho kanday Gervonta Davis, Keith Thurman, kag Yordenis Ugas, nga amo man ang nagdaog batok sa iya paagi sa unanimous decision sang 2021.
Ginpunto ni Tolentino nga kinahanglan ipabatyag ni Pacquiao ang iya kusog sa umpisa pa lang, kag indi na pagpaabuton nga maglab-ot sa madugay nga mga round ang kompetisyon.
Ginpahanumdom man sang analyst ang iya kampo nga amligan ang mga tiil ni Pacquiao, ilabi na ang problema niya sa leg cramps, nga may daku nga epekto sa iya footwork, isa sa iya signature nga abilidad sa sulod sang masobra 70 ka mga laban.
Pasok sa itinakdang weight limit sina Manny Pacquiao at Mario Barrios para sa kanilang nalalapit na WBC welterweight title fight.
Ginawa ang opisyal na weigh-in sa Las Vegas, Nevada, USA pasado alas-kuwatro ng madaling araw (oras sa Pilipinas) ngayong araw.
Timbang ni Pacquiao ay 146.8 pounds, habang 146.2 pounds naman ang timbang ng kanyang makakalaban na si Barrios.
Alinsunod sa regulasyon, kinakailangang hindi lalampas sa 147 pounds ang timbang ng mga boksidor para sa kanilang 12-round world championship bout.
Inaabangan ng buong sambayanang Pilipino ang pagbabalik sa ring ng nag-iisang eight-division world champion na si Manny Pacquiao.
Muli siyang lalaban kontra sa kasalukuyang WBC welterweight champion na si Mario Barrios bukas ng umaga (oras sa Pilipinas).
Pareho nga sulod sa weight limit sanday Manny Pacquiao kag Mario Barrios para sa ila natalana nga WBC welterweight title fight.
Ginpatigayon ang official weigh-in sa Las Vegas, Nevada, USA pasado alas kuatro kaina sang kaagahon oras diri sa Pilipinas.
Nagbug-at si Pacquiao sang 146.8 pounds samtang 146.2 pounds ang ang iya nga kasumpong.
Nahibaluan ang kinahanglan lang sang duha ka mga boksidor nga indi magsobra sa 147 pounds para sa ila nga 12-round welterweight world championship fight.
Buwas sa aga oras sa Pilipinas, bantayan ang pagbalik sa ring sang isahanon nga eight-division champion nga bugal sang Pilipinas batok sa WBC welterweight titlist nga si Barrios.
Int’l boxing referee nga si Bruce McTavish, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na ang legendary nga international boxing referee nga si Bruce McTavish sa edad nga 84-anyos.
Ginkumpirma sang iya pamilya ang iya kamatayon sa Angeles City, Pampanga.
Si McTavish natawo sa Auckland, New Zealand sang 1940 kag ginhatagan sang Filipino citizenship sang 2018 pagkatapos sang 51 ka tuig nga pagpuyo sa Pilipinas.
Nagtrabaho siya bilang office manager sang isa ka American automobile manufacturer sa Clark, Pampanga antes siya nangin professional nga referee.
Nangin referee siya sa masobra 150 ka boxing matches, lakip na ang bantog nga sambuwa ni Manny Pacquiao batok kay Oscar Larios sang 2006.
Si McTavish tatlo ka beses ginpasidunggan bilang Referee of the Year sang World Boxing Council (WBC) sang 2013, 2015, kag 2017.
Siya man ang una nga referee sa world title fight sang women’s boxing nga ginpatigayon sa tunga ni Siriporn Thaweesuk kag Ayaka Miyano sa Bangkok, Thailand sang 2006.
Ang iya bangkay yara subong sa Divine Mercy sa Carmenville, Angeles City, kag ang iya lubong igapatigayon sa Hulyo 20.
Nagatunog ang espekulasyon nga mahimo mag-atubangay liwat si Manny Pacquiao kag si Floyd Mayweather Jr.
kun magdaog ang Pinoy boxing icon sa title fight sini sa Domingo sang aga (PST).
Nag-umpisa ini sa reports nga magalantaw ang 48-anyos nga retired undefeated boxing champion sa away ni Pacquiao batok kay Mario Barrios sa MGM Grand Arena sa Las Vegas, Nevada para sa World Boxing Council welterweight crown.
Duha sa mga boksidor nga magahampang sa undercard sa Domingo ang napaidalom sa Mayweather Promotions.
Nag-post man si anay Los Angeles Times reporter Lance Pugmire sang posibilidad sang ikaduha nga Pacquiao-Mayweather slugfest.
Matandaan nga ang American boxer ang nagdaog sa ila nga welterweight unification bout paagi sa unanimous decision nga naglab-ot sa record nga 4.6 million pay-per-view buys kag masobra sa $410 million nga revenue.
Kasunod sadto, duha ka beses pa nga naghampang si Mayweather lakip na ang blockbuster game batok kay MMA superstar Conor McGregor antes siya nag-retiro sa boksing nga may undefeated record nga 50-0 lakip na ang 27 knockouts.
2021 naman sang nag-retiro ang nagaisahanon nga eight-division world champion nga bugal sang Pilipinas nga may 62-8- record lakip na ang 39 KOs.
Ginapanan-aw sang Boxing Hall of Fame inductee nga si Juan Manuel Marquez nga si Manny Pacquiao ang ideklarar nga bag-o nga World Boxing Council (WBC) welterweight champion.
He’s training hard every day,” suno sa Mexican boxer nga isa sa nangin pinakabakod nga kasumpong sang Pinoy boxing icon.
Dugang sini, ang pinakadako nga magamit ni Pacquiao amo ang iya nga eksperyensya sa ring.
Magluwas pa ini sa iya power kag speed ikumparar sa mas bataon nga si Marrio Barrios nga may yara man sang height advantage.
Matandaan nga ini nga boksidor ang apat ka beses gid nga naatubang ni Pacquaio kag pareho sila nga nabutang sa Hall of Fame.
Sa Domingo na sa aga oras sa Pilipinas ang hampang ni Pacquiao batok kay Barrios nga amo ang una nga propesyunal nga sambuwa sang eight-division champion matapos gin-anunsyo ang iya pag-retiro apat ka tuig na ang nagligad.
Gilas Pilipinas, ginlutos sang Australia sa 2025 FIBA Women’s Asia Cup sa China
Napaslawan nga mangin madinalag-on ang Gilas Pilipinas sa pagbukas sang ila kampanya sa 2025 FIBA Women’s Asia Cup sa China.
Ini matapos nga ginlutos sila sang Australia pinaagi sa 76 ka puntos nga abanse, 115-39.
Bangud sini, kapot na sang Filipinas ang 0-1 card sa Group B.
Masunod nga mangin kasumpong sang team ang Japan bwas sa gab-i, Hulyo 14, las-7:30 oras sa Pilipinas.
Kung may isa ka boksingero nga makarelate gid kay Manny Pacquiao sa pagbato sa edad nga lapaw na sa 40 , amo si Bernard Hopkins, ang pinakatigulang nga boxer nga nagdaog sang world title sa edad nga 49.
Subong, si Pacquiao naman ang magahampang sa posibilidad nga mangin ikaduwa nga pinakatigulang nga kampyon sa kasaysayan, sa iya comeback fight kontra WBC welterweight champion Mario Barrios sa Hulyo 19 sa Las Vegas.
Bisan si Pacquiao sa edad nga 46 kag sa apat ka tuig nga pahuway, ginasuportahan siya ni Hopkins kag suno sa iya, may speed kag abilidad pa si Pacquiao nga makahatag sang upset.
Pero nagapati si Hopkins nga indi magalab-ot sa stoppage ang ila pagsambuwa sa ring , kag posible pa lang nga si Manny ang magdaog sa decision.
Si Hopkins, nga isa ka undisputed middleweight champion, kag nag-untat pag-boxing sang 2016 matapos napirdi kontra kay Joe Smith Jr.
FIBA Asia Cup: Justin Brownlee, balik-ensayo na kaupod sa Gilas Pilipinas
Nagbalik-ensayo na ang naturalized player sang Gilas Pilipinas nga si Justin Brownlee bilang preparasyon para sa FIBA Asia Cup nga pagahiwaton sa masunod nga bulan sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
Malawig man ang nangin pahuway sang 37-anyos nga resident import pagkatapos nga magsuprer sini sang injury sa PBA Commissioner’s Cup finals sa tunga sang Barangay Ginebra kag TNT Tropang Giga.
Pagkatapos sang finals, nagpauli ini anay sa Amerika agud nga magpaidalom sa isa ka minor operation.
Sa subong, maayo na ang kondisyon sang iya shooting hand.
Samtang yara sa US suno kay Gilas Pilipinas head coach Tim Cone, nagpadayon man si Brownlee sa pag-work out agud nga mapabilin nga maayo ang kondisyon sang iya lawas.
Nagsugod na sang Lunes ang training camp sang Gilas Pilipinas kun sa diin mas maka-focus naman si Cone matapos nga nalutos ang Ginebra sa San Miguel sa Game 7 sang best-of-seven semifinal series sang PBA Philippine Cup.
Luwas kay Brownlee, nag-abot na man sa Manila si AJ Edu nga isa man ka daku nga bulig sa team labi na nga wala sa lineup si Kai Sotto.
Manny Pacquiao, handa nga bang patumbahin ang 30-anyos na si Mario Barrios?
Siyam na araw bago ang inaabangang tapatan sa pagitan nina Manny Pacquiao at Mario Barrios para sa WBC Welterweight title sa Las Vegas, puspusan ang paghahanda ng kampo ng “Pambansang Kamao”.
Sa panayam ng Bombo Radyo kay Coach Marvin Somodia, assistant trainer ni Pacquiao sa California, ibinahagi nito ang kasalukuyang kondisyon ni Pacquiao habang papalapit ang laban.
Kabilang sa kanyang tungkulin bilang assistant trainer ang pagtutok sa daily performance ni Pacquiao, mula sa stretching, sparring, hanggang sa conditioning drills — upang masiguro kung kailan dapat taasan o bawasan ang intensity ng training.
Bagamat 46 anyos na si Pacquiao, ayon sa panayam, nananatiling maayos ang kanyang training routine at patuloy ang tamang nutrisyon, at napanatili rin ang mental at physical preparation.
May kaunting adjustments, ngunit buo pa rin ang focus sa bawat aspeto ng preparasyon.
Aminado ang kampo na malaking hamon ang age gap — si Barrios ay 30 anyos, subalit batid nila na ang karanasan ni Pacquiao ay maaaring maging susi sa panalo.
Nakita na rin sa mga nagdaang laban na kaya nitong makipagpuksaan sa mas matatangkad na kalaban tulad nina Oscar De la Hoya at Jessie Vargas.
Habang papalapit ang July 20, patuloy ang focus ng kampo ni Pacquiao sa paghahanda para sa isang laban na muling susubok sa kanyang legacy sa mundo ng boxing.
NBA: Anthony Davis, nagpaidalom sa operasyon kasunod sang eye injury
Ginalauman nga makaupod si Anthony Davis sa pagsugod sang training camp sang Dallas Mavericks antes ang 2025-26 season sa National Basketball Association (NBA).
Ini matapos nga nagguwa ang reports nga nagpaidalom ini sa operasyon agud makaayo ang detached retina.
Ini ang una nga pre-season ni Davis sa Mavs.
Nalakip siya sa makakilibot nga mid-season trade sa liga kun sa diin ginpadala ang Slovenian superstar nga si Luka Doncic sa Los Angeles Lakers.
Ini nga 10-time all star ang wala nakahampang sa anum ka semana apang nagbalik agud buligan ang Mavs sa play-in tournament apang sila ang na-eliminate.
Daku ang presensya ni Davis sa masunod nga season ilabi na bangud ginalantaw nga indi makahampang sang malawig si Kyrie Irvinng bangud naga-recover pa lamang ini sa torn anterior cruciate ligament sa wala nga tuhod.
Magadugang sa Mavs ang new talent nga si Cooper Flagg, 18-anyos nga collegiate standout nga number one overall selection sa NBA draft sang nagligad nga semana.
Tyrese Haliburton, indi makahampang sa NBA 2025-2026 season
Ginkumpirmar sang Indiana Pacers nga indi na makahamapang sa bug-os nga NBA 2025-2026 season ang star point guard nga si Tyrese Haliburton.
Ini matapos nga nagpaidalom ini sa surgery para sa iya torn right achilles tendon.
Nahibaluan nga na-injure si Haliburton sa Game 7 sang NBA Finals sang nagligad nga bulan kun sa diin nakasumpong nila ang Oklahoma City Thunder nga amo ang ginkilala nga champion.
Ang two-time All-Star ang naka-record sang 9 ka puntos nga may tatlo ka 3-pointers antes magbiya sa court.
Siya ang may average nga 14.0 points, 5.9 assists kag 4.6 rebounds sa NBA finals.
FIBA Asia Cup: Abarrientos, Abando, lakip sa 4 players nga igadugang sa Gilas Pilipinas
Ginakonsiderar ni Coach Tim Cone ang apat ka bag-o nga players nga maga-upod sa Gilas Pilipinas para sa pagtiglawas sa pungsod sa FIBA Asia Cup.
Sanday Abarrientos kag Rosario nga players man ni Cone sa Barangay Ginebra ang nakatambong na sa una nga meeting sang Gilas sa Pasig City.
Ginahulat ang duha ka iban pa bangud sa Estados Unidos pa si Lucero samtang sa Taiwan naman si Abando.
Kabahin man anay si Rosario sang Gilas nga nakadaog sang tatlo ka gold medals sa Southeast Asian Games kag nagtiglawas man sa Pilipinas sa 2019 FIBA World Cup sa China.
Lakip naman si Abando sa Gilas sang nag-host ang Pilipinas sang World Cup sang 2023, kag sa Asia Cup sang 2022 sa Indonesia.
Si Abarrientos naman ang parte man sang team nga naghampang sa 2021 FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament sa Serbia.
Sa pihak nga bahin, gina-verify pa sang Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP) kun makahampang bilang local si Lucero bangud isa ini ka Filipino-American forward.
Matabo ang continental showdown sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia halin sa Agusto 5-17 kun sa diin nagtupa ang Pilipinas sa Group D kag natalana mag-atubang sa New Zealand, Chinese Taipei, kag Iraq.
World-class pole vault tournament, gaganapin sa Pilipinas sa Setyembre; EJ Obiena, tampok na kalahok
Inihahanda na ang isang world-class pole vault tournament na gaganapin sa Ayala Triangle Gardens, Makati City sa darating na Setyembre 20 hanggang 21, 2025, tampok ang pambato ng Pilipinas na si Ernest John “EJ” Obiena at ilan sa mga pinakamahusay na pole vaulters mula sa iba’t ibang panig ng mundo.
Emosyonal na ibinahagi ni Obiena ang katuparan ng isa sa kaniyang matagal nang pangarap ang dalhin ang isang prestihiyosong paligsahan ng pole vault sa gitna ng lungsod ng Makati.
Una nang inakala ng marami na ang countdown na lumabas sa social media accounts ni Obiena ay para sa kaniyang pagreretiro, ngunit nilinaw niyang ito ay para sa isang malaking kumpetisyon na matagal na niyang pinaghandaan.
Ang torneo ay opisyal na kinikilala ng World Athletics, Asian Athletics, at ng PATAFA (Philippine Athletics Track and Field Association), at inaasahang magpapakita ng world-class performances mula sa mga pinakamagagaling sa larangan ng pole vault.
Bagama’t hindi pa inilalabas ang kompletong listahan ng mga kalahok, tiniyak ni Obiena na inaanyayahan nila ang mga top-ranked international athletes, kasunod ng World Championships.
Inaasahan ding maaaring masungkit ang bagong national o kahit world record sa nasabing paligsahan.
Si Obiena mismo ang sasabak para sa Pilipinas, at umaasa siyang ang event na ito ay magsisilbing inspirasyon sa mga kabataang Pilipino upang mas lumawak pa ang interes sa pole vault at athletics sa bansa.
“Isa po ito sa mga pangarap kong natupad ang maibalik ang world-class athletics sa harap ng mga Pilipino,” ani Obiena.
Kevin Quiambao, nagahanas na sa Sacramento para sa iya target sa NBA Summer League
Opisyal na nga ginsuguran sang Gilas Pilipinas star nga si Kevin Quiambao ang paghanas para malab-ot ang iya target sa National Basketball Association (NBA) Summer League.
Nag-abot si Quiambao sa Sacramento sa California, USA agud tinguhaan nga makaupod sa team sang Kings.
Nagahanas ang two-time UAAP MVP kaupod ang Filipino coach nga si Jimmy Alapag nga kilala sa PBA kag subong amo ang strength and conditioning coach sang Kings.
Nahibaluan nga napaidalom ang 6-foot-7 forward sa kontrata sa Skygunners sa Korean Basketball League, apang ginpasugtan siya nga maghanas para sa NBA.
Una nga magahampang ang Kings sa NBA Summer League sa Hulyo 11 sa Las Vegas, Nevada.
Nagpirma si Shai Gilgeous-Alexander kag ang Oklahoma City Thunder sa isa ka kasugtanan kun sa diin nakasaad ang 4-year extension sang basketball superstar.
Ang balor nagalab-ot sa $285 milyon nga amo ang pinakamahal nga kontrata sa kasaysayan sang NBA base sa kada tuig nga sweldo.
Bangud sini, siya na subong ang may pinakamataas nga single-season average salary sa NBA history.
Gikan si Gilgeous-Alexander sa isa ka maragtason nga season sa liga kun sa diin siya ang ikaapat nga NBA player sa history nga nadeklarar nga MVP, Finals MVP, scoring title, kag nakadaug sang championship sa isa lang ka season.
Nauna na nga nakaobra sini sanday Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (isa ka bes), Michael Jordan (apat ka beses), kag Shaquille O’Neal.
Matapos ginlutos sini si Alexandre Muller sang France sa score nga 6-1 6-7(7) 6-2 6-2.
Umpisa sang nagpasakop sa Wimbledon si Djokovic sang tuig 2005 wala pa ini nakaangkon sang kapyerdihan.
Target sang seven-time Wimbledon champion nga matupungan si Roger Federer sa All England Club.
Ginsilinh man sini nga wala siya nagatahag sang kumpyansa sa iya kaugalingon bangud naga-umpisa pa lamang ini sa hampang kag madamo pa sang mga players nga iya makasambuwa.
Pinay tennis star Alex Eala, napaslawan nga magdaog sa Wimbledon
Natapos ang kampanya sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa iya labing una nga pagpasakop sa Wimbledon matapos siya malutos sa una nga round batok sa defending champion nga si Barbora Krejcikova, sa score nga 6-3, 2-6, 1-6.
Nakuha ni Eala ang una nga set, apang sa ikaduha kag ikatatlo nga set, ginpakita ni Krejcikova ang iya abilidad bilang isa ka top-ranked player.
Nakuha ni Krejcikova ang 5-0 nga puntos sa ikaduha nga set.
Si Krejcikova nga Czech player, wala nakahampang sa quarterfinals sang Lexus Eastbourne Open sang nagligad nga semana bangud sang injury, samtang si Eala ang nakalab-ot pa sa finals sang amo man nga torneo.
Ginpasidunggan naman ni Krejcikova si Eala matapos siya nga gin-surprise sang Pinay player sa first round, nga isa ka mabaskog nga performance halin sa isa ka Wimbledon debutante.
Sa masunod nga round, atubangon ni Krejcikova ang magadaog sa tunga ni World No.
Samtang si Eala padayon pa gihapon sa torneo sa women’s doubles, upod ang partner niya nga si Eva Lys, sa diin makasambuwa nila si Olga Danilovic kag Anastasia Potapova.
Alex Eala, nag-abante na sa finals sang Eastbourne Open
Naghimo sang maragtas si Alex Eala matapos nangin una nga Filipina tennis player nga nakalab-ot sa Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) tour final game.
Nahimo niya ini matapos ang mabudlay kag makapoy nga semifinal game batok kay Varvara Gracheva sang France sa Eastbourne Open nga naglawig sang duha ka oras kag 22 minutos.
Nakuha sang 20-anyos nga Pinay ang first set, 7-5, apang nakabawi ang French sa ikaduha nga set, 2-6.
Sa deciding set, diri na ginbubo ni Alex ang tanan, ginbalikan ang composure, tubtub nga nagtakop ang hampang pabor sa Pinay, 6-3.
Pagkatapos sang hampang, nagsaka man si Eala sa world no.
Antes sa semifinals, lima ka sunod-sunod nga hampang ang gindaog ni Eala sa United Kingdom lakip na ang duha sa qualifying rounds, kag sa main draw naman, lakip sa iya ginlutos via walkover amo si former Grand Slam champion Jelena Ostapenko.
Ini ang longest winning run ni Eala halin sang natabo ang Miami Open subong nga tuig kun sa diin ginpierde man niya ang tatlo ka former Grand Slam champions nga sanday Ostapenko, Madison Keys kag Iga Swiatek.
Sa final game subong nga weekend, atubangon ni Eala ang isa man ka bataon nga player nga si Maya Joint halin sa Australia.
Nagapang-51 sa world ranking ang 19-anyos nga Aussie player nga amo ang naglutos sa Russian veteran nga si Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, 7-5, 6-3, sa semifinal game.#
Alex Eala, nag-abante na sa semifinals sang Eastbourne Open
Nag-abante na ang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa semifinals sang 2025 Eastbourne Open matapos ginlutos ang World No.
20-anyos pa lang kag nagapang-74 si Eala sa ranking, samtang ang iya kasumpong ang may 21 wins na subong nga 2025 kag mas mataas pa sa ranking.
Ang Eastbourne Open amo ang katapusan nga tournament ni Eala antes ang pagpasakop sini sa Wimbledon nga natalana sa Hunyo 30.
Antes sa quarterfinals, ginlutos man ni Eala ang former Grand Slam Champion nga si Jelena Ostapenko sang Latvia sang wala sini napatapos ang hampang bangud sa injury.
Sunod nga atubangon sang Pinay amo si Varvara Gracheva sang France sa semis nga iya man anay ginlutos sa first round sang Nottingham Open qualifiers.
Ang iya partisipasyon sa Eastbourne Open sa England ang kasunod man sang iya impresibo nga semifinal appearance sa Miami Open sa temprano nga bahin sang tuig kun sa diin lakip sa iya naatubang amo ang dalagku nga players lakip si Iga Swiatek, Ostapenko, kag Madison Keys.
Isa ka Filipino-American player ang maga-upod sa pwersa nanday Rookie of the Year awardees Victor Wembanyama kag Stephon Castle sa San Antonio Spurs.
Isa siya ka versatile guard halin sa Rutgers University kag napili bilang No.
Pareho sila ni Jalen Green nga may lahi man nga Pinoy nga second overall man sang napilian sang Houston Rockets sang 2021 Draft.
Halin sa Ilocos Sur ang mga kaparyentehan ni Green, samtang ang iloy naman ni Harper ang nabun-ag kag nagdaku sa Bataan antes nag-migrate sa US sang naga-edad sang pito ka tuig.
Ini nga 6-foot-7 playmaker ang ginakonsiderar man nga NBA legacy bangud ang iya amay amo ang five-time champion nga si Ron Harper.
Ang amay nga Harper ang nakahampang anay kaupod kanday Michael Jordan sa Chicago Bulls kag Shaquille O’Neal kag Kobe Bryant sa Los Angeles Lakers.
Atleta nga naglusot ang kinatawo samtang nagadalagan sa 400m hurdle race, nagdaug gihapon
Nangin sentro sang atensyon ang American hurdler nga si Chris Robinson matapos niya nga nadaugan ang 400-meter hurdles race sa Golden Spike meet sa Ostrava, Czech Republic sa pihak sang wala ginlauman ng wardrobe malfunction.
Sa tunga sang iya pagdalagan, naglusot ang iya kinatawo halin sa iya nga shorts.
Sa pihak sini, ginpadayon niya ang pagdalagan samtang ginakay-o ang iya shorts agud matago ang iya kinatawo samtang nagalumpat sa mga hurdle.
Matapos ang karera, naghigda si Robinson sa track nga daw nayuha.
Nag-apologize naman ang mga broadcaster sang Golden Spike sa mga tumalan-aw matapos mapalayag ang wala ginalauman nga eksena.
Pinay tennis star Alex Eala, nagahanda na para sa rematch kay Ostapenko
Nagahanda na si Pinay tennis star Alex Eala para sa potential nga rematch kay Jelena Ostapenko sa Eastbourne Open.
Ginlutosa ni Eala ang Latvia star sa Miami Open.
Ang nasambit nga rematch ang matapos ginlutos ni Eala si World number 61 Lucia Bronzetti sa score na 6-0, 6-1 sa Round of 16 sang torneo.
Makasambuwa ni Eala si Ostapenko kun ini magdaog kay Sonay Kartal sang United Kingdom.
Ini ang last torneo ni Eala bag-o ang paghampang niya sa Wimbledon.
Oklahoma City, naghanda sang championship parade para sa Thunder
Nagpreparar ang Oklahoma City sang daku nga selebrasyon kasunod sang pagbulsa sang Thunder sang kampyonato sa 2025 NBA Finals.
Kahapon, Hunyo 23, ginlutos sang OKC ang Pacers sa Game 7 sa score nga 103-91 nga amo ang naghatag sa Oklahoma City sang labing-una nga kahigayunan nga mahakwat ang Larry O’Brien championship trophy.
Buwas, 11:30 sa aga, oras sa amo nga syudad, may yara sang masobra isa ka oras nga parada nga pagasundan sang pagtilipon sa sulod sang ila home court nga Paycom Center kag closing program sa Scissortail Park.
Pagpalawig pa ini sang selebrasyon matapos nga nasaksihan sang masobra 18,000 ka fans kahapon ang maragtason nga kampyonato sa pagpanguna sang superstar nga si Shai Gilgeous-Alexander nga may 30.3 points, 4.6 rebounds, 5.6 assists, 1.9 steals kag 1.8 blocks sa bilog nga Finals.
Si SGA ang 11th player sa NBA history nga nagdaog bilang league MVP, kampyon sa NBA Finals kag Finals MVP.
Pinay tennis star Alex Eala, ginlutos si Hailey Baptiste sang US
Nakuha ni Eala sa score nga 6(1)-7, 7-6(4), 6-1 nga ini ang ulihi nga tune-up game sang Pinay tennis star bag-o ang Wimbledon.
Una na nga ginlutos ni Eala si Zeynep Sonmez, 6-1, 6-3 sang Turkey sang Sabado.
Ang nasambit nga kadalag-an ang makabig nga dako nga bulig para kay Eala para sa una nga hampang niya sa Wimbledon.
NBA: OKC, nag-ako sa pigado nga performance, wala sang excuse sa kapaslawan sa Game 6
Wala sang ginhatag nga anuman nga excuse ang Oklahoma City Thunder sa ila pigado nga performance sa Game 6 sang NBA Finals batok sa Indiana Pacers.
Sa hampang kahapon, madamo ang naglaum nga madala na pauli sang Thunder ang kampyonato ilabi na bangud sa injury nga naangkon ni Tyrese Haliburton sa Game 5.
Apang nagtakop ang sambuwa sa 108-91 pabor sa Indiana nga amo man ang nagpatas sa serye sa 3-3.
Suno kay Thunder superstar Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, kinahanglan nila nga matun-an ang leksyon sa amo nga hampang.
Gin-ako man sini nga wala gid siya naghalong kag nakulangan sang focus rason nga siya ang nakahimo sang walo sa 21 turnovers sang Oklahoma.
Suno naman sa forward nga si Jalen Williams, indi maayo ang ila depensa.
Daw nagguwa suno sa iya nga wala sila sang salig sa isa kag isa — indi kaangay sang ila maayo nga hampang sa nagligad nga game.
Mangin si Thunder coach Mark Daigneault ang nag-ako man nga dismayado sila apang nakahibalo nga madamo sang kinahanglan i-adjust para sa Game 7.
Kahapon sa fourth quarter, sang may 30-puntos nga abanse ang Pacers, ginpapahuway na si Gilgeous-Alexander kag ang iban pa nga Thunder starters bilang preparasyon na sa final game.
Matabo ang winner-takes-all Game 7 sa Lunes, 8:00 sang aga oras sa Pilipinas.
Ini man ang una nga NBA Finals halin sang 2016 nga nakalab-ot sa Game 7 ang duha ka magkasumpong nga teams.
Nonito Donaire, handa na liwat magpasakop sa ring batok kay Andres Campos
Handa na liwat magpasakop sa ring ang four-division boxing champion nga si Nonito “The Filipino Flash” Donaire sa iya pag-atubang kay Andres Campos sang Chile para sa interim WBA bantamweight title.
Ang hampang magatalana sa Hunyo 14 sa Argentina, kun sa diin luyag ni Donaire nga mabalik ang iya kadungganan matapos ang duha ka sunod-sunod nga kapyerdihan.
Sa tuig 2022, natalana siya sa ikaduha nga round pa lang sang rematch nila ni Naoya Inoue, ang undisputed junior featherweight champion.
Sunod sini, natalana man siya sang 2023 paagi sa unanimous decision ni Alexandro Santiago para sa bakante nga WBO bantamweight belt.
Ang iya pinakaulihi nga kadalag-an amo sang Disyembre 11, 2021, sang ginpyerde niya si Reynaldo Gaballo sa ikaapat nga round kag na-depensahan niya ang iya WBC bantamweight title.
May yara na sang 42 ka kadalag-an, 8 ka pyerde, kag 28 ka knockouts si Donaire, samtang si Campos naman may record nga 17 ka kadalag-an, 2 ka ka pyerde, isa ka draw kag 6 ka knockouts.
Olympic gold medalist Hidilyn Diaz, nagbalik na sa sports
Opisyal na nga nagbalik sa competition ang Olympic gold winner nga si Hidilyn Diaz-Naranjo sa natapos lang nga National Weightlifting Championships sa Dumaguete.
Ini ang iya first event matapos ang malawig nga pahuway kun sa diin ginpakita sini ang iya pwersa sa pagkuha sang silver medal samtang nakuha naman ni Elreen Ando ang gold medal.
Napierde ni Ando ang historic Tokyo golden lifter sa 220-kilogram total lift sa 95kg sa snatch kag 125kg sa clean and jerk.
Nakuha ni Diaz ang 202 sa 87kg snatch kag 115kg clean and jerk.
Gin-anunsyar man ni Diaz sang nakaligad nga semana nga ulihi na niya nga pagpasakop sa Olympic amo ang Olympic 2028 nga patigayonon sa Los Angeles.
Pacers, abanse na sa serye, 2-1, sa NBA Finals kontra sa Thunder
Nagdaug ang Indiana Pacers sa Game 3 sang 2025 NBA Finals kag naangkon ang 2-1 nga abanse sa serye batok sa Oklahoma City Thunder.
Nagpakita sang ikasangkol ang Pacers sa second half, kun sa diin si Tyrese Haliburton ang nagbawi kag naghatag sang clutch plays para sa iya team.
Bangud sa kadalag-an nga ini, duha ka daog na lang ang kinahanglan sang Indiana Pacers bag-o makuha ang kampeonato sa pinakauna nga kahigayunan.
Tyrese Haliburton, 100% na makahampang sa game 3 kontra OKC
Ginkumpirma ni Indiana Pacers head coach Rick Carlisle nga 100% makahampang si point guard Tyrese Haliburton para sa Game 3 sang NBA Finals subong, Myerkules apisar nga wala pa ini nag-ayo gid sa naangkon nga injury.
a pihak sang injury, ginpasiguro ni Coach Rick Carlisle nga wala sang makapugong sa mga players sang Indiana Pacers nga maghampang sa game 3 nga hiwaton sa ila nga home court.
Matadaan nga si Haliburton ang naghatag sang kadalag-an sa Pacers sa Game 1 pinaagi sa isa ka crucial jumpshot batok sa Oklahoma City Thunder.
Sa Game 2 naman, apisar nga nabudlayan sila sa depensa kag nakahimo sang lima ka mga turnovers, ginsiling sang 25-anyos nga player nga ang injury niya ang ang yara sa idalom nga porsyon sang iya paa ang indi makapungong sa iya sa game 3.
Pinay tennis star ALex Eala, sulod sa ikaduha nga round sang Ikley Open
Susunod na makakaharap ni Eala si Valentina Ryser ang ranked 230 mula sa Switzerland.
Sulod na sa ikaduha nha round sang Ikley Open si Pinay tennis star Alex Eala.
Ini matapos ginpyerde ang Filipino Australian nga si Lizette Cabrera sa score nga 7(7)-6, 6-3.
Nagtapos ang hampang isa ka oras kag 46 minutes sa torneo nga ginhiwat sa Northern England.
Ini ang una nga kompetisyon ni Eala matapos ang kapaslawan sa Birmingham Classic.
EJ Obiena, nagpanglima sa FBK Games sa Netherlands
Gin-umpisahan sang Filipino pole vaulter nga si EJ Obiena ang iya masako nga semana sa European circuit paagi sa pagtapos sa ikalima nga pwesto sa FBK Games nga ginhiwat sa Netherlands sang Lunes, Hunyo 10.
Na-clear ni Obiena ang 5.66 meters, kapareho sang kataason nga nalab-ot man sang American nga si Keaton Daniel kag Chinese nga si Tao Zhong.
Apang, bangud sang countback, si Obiena ang ginbutang sa ika-lima nga pwesto bangud kinahanglan pa niya sang duha ka attempt agud ma-clear ang 5.56 metros.
Tatlo naman ka mga Amerikano ang nagpanguna sa podium, kun sa diin naangkon ni Christopher Nilson ang bulawan nga medalya (5.82), nga ginasundan ni KC Lightfoot (5.74m) kag Keaton Daniel (5.66m)
Ini ang labing una nga kompetisyon ni Obiena humalin sang nagmadinalag-on siya nga depensahan ang iya titulo sa Asian Championships sang nagligad nga semana.
Ang masunod nga kompetisyon ni Obiena amo ang Oslo Bislett Games sa Norway sa Hunyo 12.
Balantayan 8:00 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas ang Game 2 sa National Basketball Association (NBA) Finals sa tunga sang Oklahoma City Thunder kag Indiana Pacers.
Patigayunon ini gihapon sa Paycom Center nga home court sang Thunder.
Matapos ang upset nga nahimo sa Game 1, tuyo ni Tyrese Haliburton kag Pacers nga pasagunsunan ini subong nga adlaw kag makuha ang 2-0 series lead antes dal-on ang finals sa Indianapolis sa state sang Indiana.
Sang Byernes (PST), napanas sang Pacers ang 15-puntos nga abanse sang Thunder sa fourth quarter.
Nangin highlight naman ang game-winning shot ni Haliburton sang 0.3 seconds ang nabilin sa hampang nga amo ang nagpadaog sa Indiana, 111-110.
Determinado naman ang Oklahoma sa pagpanguna sang star point guard kag newly crowned Most Valuable Player (MVP) nga si Shai Gilgeous-Alexander nga makabawi matapos nakalusot ang Indiana sa Game 1.
Ini nga 38 puntos amo ang ikatatlo sa pinakamataas nga na-skor sa NBA finals debut sang isa ka player kasunod sang nahimo nanday Allen Iverson nga may 48 points kag George Mikan nga may 42 points.
Carlos Yulo, nagapabilin nga king of floor exercise matapos liwat nga nakuha ang gold sa Asian Gymnastics Championships
Nagapadayon nga hari sang floor exercise si Carlos Yulo matapos liwat nga magdaog sang bulawan sa amo nga event sa subong nga tuig sang Asian Gymnastics Championships nga ginhiwat sa South Korea.
Ang duha ka beses nga Olympic gold medalist nga si Yulo ang nangin una sa walo ka finalists, nga may score nga 14.600, kag ginpasulabi ang tanan sa finals.
Nagpangaduha nga lugar si Milad Karimi sang Kazakhstan nga may score nga 14.400, samtang nagtapos sa ikatatlo si Moon Geonyoung sang South Korea nga may 14.033.
Ini na ang ika-apat nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga nagdaog si Yulo sang bulawan sa floor exercise, sang una man siya nagdaog sa 2022, 2023, kag 2024 editions.
Amo man ini ang ikaduha niya nga medalya sa subong nga kompetisyon matapos siya nagkuha sang bronze sa individual all-around sang Huwebes.
Sa Paris Olympics sang nagligad nga tuig, nakuha man ni Yulo ang bulawan sa floor exercise.
Nag-compete man si Yulo sa finals sang still rings, apang nagtapos siya sa ikapito nga lugar nga may score nga 13.233.
Ang “Golden Boy” sang Pilipinas sa gymnastics maga-kompetensya pa sa finals sang vault, horizontal bar, kag parallel bars subong nga Domingo.
Nabatian na naman ang national anthem nga “Lupang Hinirang” kag napasaka na naman sang hayahay sang Pilipinas sa 2025 Artistic Gymnastics Asian Championships sa South Korea.
Ini matapos nagpangibabaw ang Filipino superstar gymnast nga si Carlos Edriel Yulo sa floor exercise finals — ang iya pet event kun sa diin nagdaog man siya anay sang gold medal sa Paris Olympics sang 2024.
Ginsundan siya ni Milad Karimi sang Kazakhstan nga may 14.400 points kag Moon Geonyoung sang South Korea nga may 14.033.
Ini na ang ikaapat nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga gold medalist si Yulo sa floor exercise matapos nga nagpangibabaw man sa 2022, 2023, kag 2024 editions.
Antes sini, matandaan nga na-secure sang Filipino gymnast ang bronze medal sa men’s all-around event sa amo man nga tournament sang nagligad nga adlaw.
Sa still rings finals nga ginpatigayon subong adlaw, nag-compete man si Yulo apang nagpang-pito lamang nga may 13.233 points.
Kuwalipikado man ang Filipino golden boy sa vault, horizontal bar, kag parallel bars finals nga balantayan buwas, Hunyo 8.
Donaire, magabalik sa ring sa Hunyo 14 para sa WBA interim title shot
Antes pa man ang makahalawat-hawat nga away sang Filipino ring icon nga si Manny Pacquiao, dapat man bantayan sang Pinoy boxing fans ang nagahilapit nga sambuwa sang four-division world champion nga si Nonito Donaire, Jr.
Matabo ang 12-round bout sa Hunyo 14 sa Buenos Aires, Argentina nga mas una pa sa hampang ni Pacquiao nga nakatalana sa Hulyo sa Las Vegas, Nevada.
Sandig sa World Boxing Association (WBA), makasumpong sang 42-anyos nga The Filipino Flash ang 28-anyos nga si Andres Campos nga halin sa Chile.
Nakataya sa hampang ang Interim WBA Bantamweight title.
Katapusan nga nakit-an sa ring si Donaire sang Hulyo 2023 batok kay Alexandro Santiago.
Ang nasambit nga Mexican boxer amo ang nagdaog via unanimous decision agud ma-claim ang sang amo nga tion bakante nga WBC world bantamweight belt.
Sa pagbalik naman ni Donaire sa hampang, gina-uyatan sini ang ang 42-8 fight record lakip na ang 28 knockouts.
Markado naman sang 17-2-1 record si Campos lakip ang anum ka knockouts.
Ang magadaog sa Donaire-Campos fight ang possible nga mahatagan sang oportunidad nga mahangkat ang regular WBA belt nga subong ginapanag-iyahan ni bantamweight champion Antonio Vargas.
Carlos Yulo, bronze medalist sa iya una nga kumpetisyon matapos ang Paris Olympics
Ini ang iya una nga kumpetisyon halin sang nadag-an sini ang maragtason nga duha ka gold medals sa vault kag floor exercises sa Paris Games sang 2024.
Sa iya pagbalik sa contest, naka-skor si Yulo sang 83.633 sa anum ka mga apparatus.
Pangatlo siya sa scores sunod sa reigning Olympic all-around champion nga si Oka Shinnosuke (85.134) kag Hasegawa Tsuyoshi (83.967) nga pareho nga halin sa Japan.
Talalupangdon nga ang pinakamataas nga scores ni Yulo amo ang 14.433 points sa floor exercise kag 14.400 points sa vault nga amo ang duha ka mga kategorya nga iya nadag-an sa Olympiada.
Top qualifier siya sa finals sang floor exercise kag ikaduha sa vault sunod kay Mahdi Olfati sang Iran.
Balantayan ang pagbalik sang 25-anyos nga gymnast superstar sa floor exercise kag rings finals buwas, Hunyo 7, kag sa vault, parallel bars finals, kag horizontal bar finals sa Domingo, Hunyo 8.
Happening Today: Game 1 sa NBA finals sa tunga sang Thunder kag Pacers
Balantayan na 8:30 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas ang Game 1 sa 2025 National Basketball Association (NBA) finals sa tunga sang Oklahoma City Thunder kag Indiana Pacers.
Ini nga championship tilt sa tunga sang duha ka teams ang pangunahan sang ascending stars nga sanday Shai Gilgeous-Alexander sang Thunder kag Tyrese Haliburton sang Pacers.
Patigayunon ini sa home court sang Thunder sa Paycom Center sa Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, United States.
Ini ang una nga finals appearance sang OKC halin sang 2012.
Samtang, antes nakaabot sa Oklahoma, literal nga nangin mabudlay ang inagyan sang Pacers bangud sa tornado warning sa kapital nga syudad rason nga naghugpa anay ang eroplano sa Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Ini naman ang una nga tion nga naka-abante sila sa final round sa NBA.
Nahimo nila ini matapos ginlutos ang Milwaukee Bucks, ang Cleveland Cavaliers, kag ang New York Knicks sa East.
Sa injury report, si Nikola Topic lamang ang indi makahampang sa Thunder.
Carlos Yulo, balik-kumpetisyon na subong nga semana
Magabalik na sa kumpetisyon ang Filipino superstar gymnast nga si Carlos Yulo.
Ang iya pagsabak sa 2025 Asian Artistic Gymnastics Championships sa Jecheon, South Korea amo ang iya una nga contest halin sang nabulsa sini ang duha ka gold medals para sa Pilipinas sa 2024 Paris Olympics sa France.
Si Yulo ang manguna sa team sang Pilipinas sa men’s gymnastics kag paga-updan man nanday Jhon Romeo Santillan, Justin Ace de Leon, Juancho Miguel Besana, kag John Ivan Cruz.
Lakip sa ila pasakupan amo ang team and all-around finals kag individual apparatus qualifications nga magasugod subong nga adlaw, Hunyo 5, kag magalawig tubtub sa Domingo, Hunyo 8.
‘I feel young’: Pacquiao, nagpasalig nga may i-bato pa vs Barrios apisar sang iya edad
Ginsabat ni former eight-division world champion Manny Pacquiao ang mga opinyon nga tigulang na siya agud magbalik pa sa hampang sa ring.
Sa press conference sa Las Vegas, Nevada, USA kun sa diin kaupod sini ang iya kasumpong nga si Mario “El Azteca” Barrios, nagpahayag si Pacquiao nga bisan 46-anyos na siya, magabato pa siya.
Bisan nagpahuway siya sa professional boxing suno kay PacMan, nagpabilin man siya nga aktibo paagi sa regular nga ehersisyo kag paghampang sang basketball kag badminton.
Gindugang sini nga indi lang ini iya away, kundi isa ka paagi nga ipakita sa kalibutan nga wala naga-surrender ang mga Pinoy.
Ginpasalig sini ang maayo nga sambuwa sa Hulyo 19.
Si Barrios nga defending champion sa WBC welterweight amo ang una nga makaatubang ni Pacquiao matapos ang iya katapusan nga professional fight sang 2021 antes siya nagpadalagan sa pagka-presidente.
6’0″ ang kataason sang 30-anyos nga American boxer nga may 29-2-1 win-loss record kun sa diin 18 sa iya daog ang nahimo paagi sa knockout.
Gina-uyatan naman sang Pinoy fighter ang 62-8-2 record.#
Gin-post sang two-time Filipino Olympian nga si EJ Obiena ang mga laragway sa iya madinalag-on nga pagdepensa sa iya titulo sa bag-o lang nagtakop nga 2025 Asian Athletics Championships sa Gumi, South Korea.
Ini ang ikatlo nga sunod-sunod nga gold medal ni Obiena sa amo nga tournament matapos ini nadag-an sang 2019 sa Dubai kag sang 2023 sa Bangkok.
Subong nga tuig, ginlaragway niya ini ang kadalag-an nga “title defended in the most thrilling way possible.”
Pareho sila sang iya abyan kag training partner nga Chinese pole vaulter nga si Huang Bokai nga naka-clear sang 5.72 meters sa isa lang ka attempt, pareho man nga nag-skip sa 5.77, kag pareho man nga napaslawan nga makalapaw sa 5.82 mark sa tatlo gid ka beses.
Apang bangud si Obiena ang naka-clear sang 5.77-meter mark sa jump-off, siya ang kampyon kag si Huang ang silver medalist matapos ang masobra man lima ka oras nga kumpetisyon.
Nagpangatlo si Patsapong Amsamarng sang Thailand nga may clearance nga 5.67 meters.
Kaupod sa iya nga legendary coach nga si Vitaly Petrov, magabalik si Obiena sa Europa para sa masako na naman nga schedule sa sini nga bulan.
Lakip sa namensyonar sini nga kumpetisyon amo ang sa Hengelo, Netherlands sa Hunyo 9; sa Oslo, Norway para sa Diamond League; kag sa Wanda Diamond League meeting sa Stockholm, Sweden sa Hunyo 15 kun sa diin yara ang world number one kag back-to-back record holder nga si Mondo Duplantis.
Antes sini, may training man ang Pinoy pride sa Italya.
Ang pinakadaku nga target ni Obiena subong nga tuig amo ang World Championships nga patigayunon sa Japan sa Septyembre.#
Nakuha sang Gilas Pilipinas Youth ang gold medal sa Fiba U16 Asia Cup Seaba Qualifiers kag nagtapos pa nga may undefeated record.
6-0 ang Pilipinas matapos gintambakan ang Indonesia, 70-40, sa final round sa Bren Z.
Sa imbukada pa lang nga period, 21-5 na ang skor, naglab-ot sa 41-20 ang lead sa halftime, kag nagdangat sa 59-25 nga amo ang pinakadaku nga abanse sang masobra uno minuto ang nabilin sa third period.
Wala naman sang player ang Indonesia nga naka-double digits sa hampang.
Ini na ang ikaduha nga tion nga nagkitaay ang Pilipinas kag Indonesia sa sini nga Seaba qualifiers, kun sa diin daog man ang Gilas sa una nga hampang, 77-68.
Magluwas nga nakuha sang Philippine team ang gold, kuwalipikado na ini sa FIBA U16 Asia Cup nga patigayunon sa Mongolia.
Sulod man sa amo nga Asian tournament ang Indonesia nga silver medalist, kag ang Malaysia nga amo ang nagapangatlo.
Ginbansagan ‘sprint king’ sang NCR, anak man sang Palaro champion sa sprint events sang 1990s
Nagapanalaytay sa dugo sang ginbansagan nga ‘sprint king’ sang National Capital Region ang kadasigon sa pagdalagan.
Si Pi Durden Wangkay ang nakakuha sang gold medal sa secondary boys’ 100m kag sa 200m events sa Palarong Pambansa 2025.
Ang 16-anyos nga solterito halin sa De La Salle Zobel ang nagsiling nga nakuha niya sa iya iloy ang amo nga abilidad.
Sang 1990s, ang iya iloy nga si Jonah Genilza ang nagdominar man sa Palaro paagi sa pagpangibabaw sa secondary girls’ sprint events kag nakahimo man sang record sa 400m nga naglawig sang masobra isa ka dekada antes ini na-break.
Si Jonah ang nangin kabahin sang team La Salle sa UAAP kag nakatiglawas man sang Pilipinas sa international meets bilang parte sang national team.
Siya subong ang coach sang iya anak nga nagahandom man nga maka-compete sa international nga lebel kaangay sang iya iloy.
Passinhon, nakabulsa sang duha ka gold medals sa Palarong Pambansa
Duha gid ka bulawan nga medalya ang nakuha sang tumandok sang Passi City nga si Kate P.
Pardilla sa nagapadayon nga Palarong Pambansa 2025.
Kampyon siya sa Standard Individual Chess amo man sa Standard Team Chess kun sa diin kaupod sini ang taga-Iloilo City nga si Thea Grace Clar.
Si Pardilla ang naga-eskwela sa Passi I Central School kag nagatiglawas sang Western Visayas sa sini nga sports event.
Nagpalab-ot man sang pagpanginbulahan ang local government unit sang Passi kasunod sang kadalag-an sini.
Suno pa sa local government, sang 2024, naka-upod ni Pardilla sa paghampang sang chess ang billiards legend nga si Efren “Bata” Reyes kadungan sang 1st Mayor Stephen A.
As of press time, nagapang-apat ang Western Visayas sa medal tally sa sini nga multi-sport event sa Laoag, Ilocos Norte nga may 29 ka gold medals.#
Pantyliners kag wet wipes sa tiil, kabahin sang winning formula sang mga barefoot athletes sang Region 6 sa Palaro
Ginpakigbahin sang delegasyon sang Region 6 sa Palarong Pambansa ang ila nga winning formula sa patag sang Athletics.
Kasunod ini sang pagdaug sang bulawan nga medalya sang mga barefoot athletes ukon mga atleta nga nagatiniil lamang sa ila nga kompetisyon.
Ang nasambit nga mga atleta amo anday Trixia Arellano, Ayene Dhawn Cabalfin, kag Eda Mae Arceo.
Si Arellano nga halin sa Concepcion Central Elementary School ang nagguba sang palaro record sa elementary girls’ 200m dash matapos nakarecord sang time nga 26.4 seconds nga mas madasig sa 17 ka tuig nga record ni Maureen Schrijvers nga may oras nga 26.7 seconds sang 2008.
Si Cabalfin nga pride sang Barosbos Elementary School sa Carles, ang nangibabaw sa 400-meter dash elementary girls.
Si Arceo naman nga pride sang Carles Central Elementary School ang nagdaug sa 100m Hurdles – Elementary Girls Category.
Prasas, Master Teacher 1 sang Carles Central School, bag-o nila ginaputos sang plaster ang tiil sang mga atleta, ginabutangan anay nila sang pantyliner kag wetwipes ang dapa-dapa sang mga ini agud magserbe nila nga swelas.
Suno sa iya, base sa eksperyensiya, mas madasig ang dalagan sang mga ini kun wala sang sapatos.
Balantayan 8:00 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas ang Game 5 sa tunga sang Oklahoma City Thunder kag Minnesota Timberwolves sa NBA West Conference finals.
3-1 na subong ang serye, kag pananglitan magdaog pa gid ang Thunder, magasulod na sila sa finals kag magahulat sa magadaog sa Eastern Conference finals sa tunga sang New York Knicks kag Indiana Pacers.
Kun mahimo nila ini, ini ang ila mangin labing-una nga finals appearance halin sang 2012.
May homecourt advantage man ang Thunder bangud patigayunon ang Game 5 sa Paycom Center sa Oklahoma City.
Nagapanguna sa Thunder ang MVP nga si Shai Gilgeous-Alexander kun sa diin upod sini sanday Jalen Williams kag Chet Holmgren.
Si Nikola Topic lamang ang nakalista nga yara sa injury report; samtang wala naman sang injured player sa Timberwolves.
Kun makaluwas si Anthony Edwards kag ang Timberwolves subong nga adlaw, magabalik ang hampang sa Minnesota para sa Game 6.#
Palaro gold medalist nga si Melchor Bataican sang Iloilo City, naglikaw sa mga birthday parties para lang maka-focus sa training
Tuman ang nabatyagan nga kalipay sang pamilya Bataican sa Iloilo City sa kadalag-an ni Melchor III Bataican matapos nakakuha sang gold medal sa Palarong Pambansa 2025.
Si Melchor III ukon mas kilala sa hayo nga “Thirdy” ang gold medalist sa doble baston individual sa elementary level.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Melchor Bataican Jr., amay ni Thirdy, iya ginpahayag nga Grade 4 pa lang ang iya anak sang nadiscover sang iya coach nga may abilidad ini sa arnis.
Suno sa amay nga Bataican, nagalaum sila nga mapadayon sang iya anak ang hilig sa sini nga sport tubtob sa pag-abot sini sa sekondarya.
Si Thirdy ang yara na subong sa Grade 6 sa Graciano Lopez Jaena Elementary School sa La Paz.
Gintuad naman sang amay sang gold medalist nga ginalantaw man nila nga mangin isa man ka arnis player ang utod ni Thirdy nga si Naruto nga subong nagaedad palang sang duha ka tuig.
Suno naman kay Ofelia Bataican,lola ni Thirdy, nakit-an niya kun paano magdedikar ang iya apo sa training bangud wala ini nagatambong sa mga birthday parties kag wala man nagalagaw para maka-focus sa iya training.
Ang pamilya Bataican ang pumuluyo sang Jereos, La Paz, Iloilo City.
Atleta sang Region 6, gin-guba ang 15-anyos nga Palaro record sa secondary boys’ 110-m hurdles
Naguba sang atleta sang Western Visayas nga si Mico Villaran ang 15 ka tuig nga Palaro record sa secondary boys’ 110-m hurdles.
Ini matapos siya nagrehistro sang 14.00 sa 2025 Palarong Pambansa.
Gin-break niya ang record nga nahimo ni Patrick Unso nga 14.68 seconds sang 2010.
Ang17-anyos nga si Villaran ang pride sang Romanito Maravilla National High School sa Bacolod City.
NCR, nanghakot sang gold medals sa gymnastics, nanguna sa ranking sa 1st day sang Palarong Pambansa
Nagapanguna sa latest medal tally sa Palarong Pambansa 2025 ang multi-time defending overall champion nga National Capital Region (NCR) ilabi na kasunod sang paghakot sang gold medals sa gymnastics sa una nga adlaw sang hinampang.
Yari ang medal tally (nagapasunod ang gold, silver kag bronze medals) as of press time:
Nahibaluan nga may 17 na ka korona ang NCR sa Palaro kun sa diin target nga madepensahan ini subong nga tuig sa Laoag, Ilocos Norte.
Sang 2024, nagpangaduha sa overall rankings ang CALABARZON kag nagapangatlo ang Western Visayas.#
3-day, 3-win run: Gilas Youth, gintambakan ang Singapore sang 64-puntos nga abanse
Nagsaka na sa 3-0 ang record sang Gilas Pilipinas Boys Under-16 squad sa 2025 FIBA U16 Asia Cup SEABA Qualifiers.
Ini matapos gintambakan sini ang Singapore sang 64-puntos nga abanse sa pagtakop sang hampang sa Pampanga, 101-37.
Anum sa players nga ginapangunahan ni Coach LA Tenorio ang naka-skor sang double digits para sa national team.
Sunod nga atubangon sang Gilas sa Myerkules ang Indonesia nga may pareho nga undefeated record sa qualifiers.
Ang mga nalutos sang Indonesia amo ang Singapore, Malaysia, kag Thailand.
Western Visayas, may anum ka gold medalists sa 1st day sang Palarong Pambansa 2025
Anum nga mga bulawan nga medalya ang natipon sang mga atleta sang Western Visayas sa imbukada nga adlaw sang mga hinampang sa Palarong Pambansa 2025.
Ini ang nagabutang sa Rehiyon VI sa ikatatlo nga pwesto sa latest medal tally, sunod sa defending champion nga National Capital Region kag sa CALABARZON.
Magluwas nga gold medalist, nakahimo ini sang bag-o nga record nga 45.52 meters nga amo ang nagguba sa nauna nga Palaro record nga 42.86 meters nga gin-set sang tiglawas man sang Western Visayas nga si Airex Villanueva sang nagpasakop ini sa kumpetisyon sa Marikina City sang 2023.
Ini na ang ikatatlo nga Palaro nga nakabulsa ini sang gold medal kun sa diin gold medalist ini anay sa 100 meter Hurdles Secondary Girls sa Palarong Pambansa 2023 sa Marikina, City; kag gold medalist man sa kapareho nga event sang nakaligad nga tuig nga ginhiwat sa Cebu City.
Nagatiniil lang si Eda samtang naga-compete.
Ini nga 12-anyos nga student-athlete ang naga-eskwela sa Carles Central Elementary School.
Ini man ang iya una nga pagpasakop sa Palarong Pambansa.
Bugal sang Barosbos Elementary School si Cabalfin nga nakadaog man anay sang gold, silver, kag bronze medals sang nagpasakop ini sa Palarong Pambansa sa Cebu sang 2024.
Ang duha gina-coach nanday Leone Tiosayco kag Benedicto Prasas.
Nagbukas ang Palarong Pambansa 2025 sa Laoag, Ilocos Norte sang Sabado kag opisyal nga magatakop sa Hunyo 2.#
Palarong Pambansa: Antiqueño, nagbulsa sang gold medal, nag-set sang new record sa discus throw
Nakabulsa sang gold medal kag naghimo pa sang bag-o nga rekord sa Palarong Pambansa ang tumandok sang Valderrama, Antique nga si Josh Gabriel Salcedo.
Si Salcedo sang Antique Vocational School ang nagpangibabaw sa Discus Throw Secondary Boys Finals.
Nakahimo ini sang bag-o nga record nga 45.52 meters nga amo ang nagguba sa nauna nga Palaro record nga 42.86 meters nga gin-set sang tiglawas man sang Western Visayas nga si Airex Villanueva sang nagpasakop ini sa kumpetisyon sa Marikina City sang 2023.
Ini ang una nga tion nga nakahampang sa Palaro si Salcedo.
Santo sa ginpakigbahin sang Department of Education Western Visayas, handum niya ini kag sang iya amay nga makabig man anay nga Palaro stand-out sa throwing events.
Sang nagdaog si Salcedo sa Laoag, Ilocos Norte, nakit-an nga emosyonal ini samtang ginahakos ang iya Papa nga nag-upod gid sa iya.
Pormal nga nagbukas ang Palarong Pambansa 2025 sang Sabado, Mayo 24, kag magatakop sa Lunes, Hunyo 2.#
‘Gusto ko rin maging Olympian’: Hinablos ni Hidilyn Diaz, gold medalist sa weightlifting sa Palarong Pambansa
Si Matthew — nga nagatiglawas sang CALABARZON kag hinablos sang una nga Filipino Olympic champion nga si Hidilyn Diaz — amo ang nagpangibabaw sa 48kg division sang Secondary Boys matapos nahakwat ang 73kg sa snatch kag 93kg sa clean and jerk.
Kaangay sa iya tiya, luyag man ni Matthew nga maka-representar sang Pilipinas sa Olympic stage.
“Halos po lahat ng ka-pamilya ko nasa weightlifting kaya sinunod ko po ‘yung hilig nila at gusto ko rin po maglaro sa Olympics parang siya (Hidilyn Diaz).
Na-inspire niya po ako, gusto ko na rin po na maging Olympian po,” pahayag sini matapos ang kadalag-an sa Palaro.
Pinu-push ko po ‘yug sarili ko para makarating po ako sa rank na ‘yun sa Olympics.”
Gin-reintroduce ang weightlifting bilang demonstration sport subong nga tuig, gani ang medals nga nadag-an sini nga kategorya ang indi pa mahimo malakip sa overall medal tally.
Nahibaluan nga si Hidilyn nga kampyon sa weightlifting sa Olympiada sadtong 2021 sa Japan amo man ang nagaserbe nga tournament director sa weightlifting sa sini nga 2025 sa Laoag, Ilocos Norte.
Sa opening ceremony, siya man ang nagpanguna sa oathtaking sang technical officials kag coaches.#
Grade 9 student sang Region 8, nakuha ang labing-una nga Gold Medal sa Palarong Pambansa 2025
Nakuha ni Chrisia Mae Tajarros gikan sa Rehiyon 8 ukon Eastern Visayas ang labing-una nga bulawan nga medalya sa Palarong Pambansa 2025 sa secondary girls’ 3,000m run.
Suno kay Chrisia Mae, sa pihak sang kabudlay kag kakapoy nga iya naeksperyensyahan sa tion sang iya paghanas, ini ang ginbuslan sang kadalag-an.
Suno sa iya, nag-umpisa siya sa paghanas sa athletics sang Grade 1 pa lang siya.
Ginpaathag niya nga ang iya orihinal nga i-sport amo ang paglangoy ukon swimming apang siya ang nagsaylo sa athletics.
Ginpasalamatan naman ni Chrisia ang Dios sa iya panibag-o nga kadalag-an kag gin-ako nga mabudlay sa training apang ginhimo niya ang masarangan agud malab-ot ang iya ginahandum nga medalya.
Si Tajarros isa ka Grade 9 Student sa Tanauan National High School sa Leyte sa diin nakakuha ini sang silver medal sa Cebu City sang nagligad nga tuig.
Nahibaluan nga suno sa Coach ni Chrisia nga si Mr.
Damaso Olidan Jr., nagasugod ang ila training alas 7:00 sang aga tubtub alas 12:00 sang udto.
Nagapabilin sa Pilipinas ang International Boxing Federation (IBF) minimumweight title matapos liwat nga ginlutos ni Pedro Taduran ang Japanese boxer nga si Ginjiro Shigeoka.
Nagdaog ang Pinoy boxer paagi sa split decision subong nga Sabado sa sambuwa nga ginpatigayon sa Osaka, Japan.
Duha ka judges ang nagpabor sa defending Filipino world champion, 118-110, 115-113; kag isa naman ang nagpabor sa Japanese, 113-115, matapos ang 36 minutos nga hampang.
Samtang nagaselebrar si Taduran, nakit-an naman sa live feed nga nalipong si Shigeoka, apang sang ulihi na-umpawan man, nagpamahid sang iya nawong, kag ginsakay ini sa stretcher pagguwa sa ring.
Ginpatigayon ini nga rematch 10 ka bulan matapos ang kadalag-an sang Pinoy paagi sa ninth-round stoppage sang una sila nga nagkitaay sa Otsu sa Hulyo 2024.
Nagsaka na sa 18-4-1 ang record ni Taduran nga may 13 knockouts.
Posible nga ang masunod para sa Pinoy fighter amo ang unification fight batok sa Puerto Rican nga si Oscar Collazo nga amo ang naga-uyat sang paha sa WBA kag WBO.
Indi na bag-uhan si Collazo sa pag-atubang sa Pinoy sa world title clash.
Undefeated siya sa 12 fights nga may siyam ka knockouts, kag lakip sa iya nalutos amo si Melvin Jerusalem sang Mayo 2023 para sa WBO strap.
Wala sang injuries, wala sang damages sa Palaro venues kasunod sang linog sa La Union — Angara
Ginklaro ni Department of Education (DepEd) Secretary Sonny Angara nga wala sang na-report nga injuries ukon anuman nga kahalitan kasunod sang linog nga nagtay-og sa Laoag City, Ilocos Norte nga amo ang host sang Palarong Pambansa 2025.
Pasado alas dies kaina sang aga sang nagtay-og ang magnitude 5.2 nga linog sa La Union kag nabatyagan man sa kaiping nga mga syudad kaangay sang Laoag City kun sa diin masako sa pagpanghanda para sa opening ceremony sang hinampang.
Suno pa sa DepEd, napalapta na sang Incident Command Post ang mga personnel nagikan sa Bureau of Fire Protection kag Regional Safety Office agud nga mag-inspect sa playing venues amo man sa mga lugar kun sa diin nagatinir ang mga delegado sa hinampang.
Lakip man sa gin-check amo ang Ferdinand E.
Marcos Memorial Stadium kun sa diin hiwaton ang opening rites karon sa gab-i.
Sa stadium man patigayunon sa masunod nga inadlaw ang nagkalain-lain nga sport events kaangay sang football, tennis, athletics, kag swimming.
Ginpasiguro sang DepEd nga preparado ang ila nga Regional Incident Management Team kag ginasunod gid ang earthquake response protocols.
nga amo man ang pormal nga proklamasyon sang pagbukas sang Palarong Pambansa.
Nahibaluan nga bisan subong nga gab-i ang opening ceremony, magasugod ang regular sports sa Mayo 26 tubtub 30.
Palarong Pambansa 2025, magasugod na sa Laoag City, Ilocos Norte; olympic champion Hidilyn Diaz magapanguna sa seremonya
Magasugod na buwas, Mayo 24, ang ika-65 nga Palarong Pambansa sa Ferdinand E.
Isa sa mga balantayan sa pagbukas sang nasambit nga sporting event amo si Olympic gold medalist Hidilyn Diaz, nga mangin lider sa panunumpa sang mga coach kag technical officials.
Ginalauman nga magaabot ang kapin 15,675 ka delegado kag opisyal halin sa 17 ka rehiyon, National Academy of Sports (NAS), Philippine Schools Overseas (PSO) kag National Technical Working Group para sa isa ka semana nga selebrasyon sang sportsmanship.
ang ginalauman nga magahatag sang pormal nga pagbukas sa Palaro, kag magahatag sang mensahe kabahin sa kabakod kag papel sang kabataan sa pag-ugyon sang pungsod pinaagi sa sport.
Magasugod ang opening ceremony sa 5:00 sang aga paagi sa parada sang mga atleta.
Mangin lider sa Panunumpa sang mga Atleta si Gerick Jhon Flores, isa ka batan-on nga atleta sa baseball kag record-holder sa 11th BFA U12 Asian Baseball Championship.
Sa pagsiga sang sulo, mangin kabahin ang pila sa mga bantog nga atleta nga sanday Jemmuelle James Espiritu (Archery), Mark Anthony Domingo (Athletics), Jesson Cid (Decathlon), Roger Tapia (Para-athletics), kag Eric Ang (Trap Shooting).
Atubangon sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala ang Colombian player nga si Emiliana Arango sa iya labing-una nga pagtapak sa main draw sang French Open.
Si Arango naga-edad sang 24-anyos kag nagapang-88 sa rankings sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA).
Yara sa mas mataas nga posisyon ang 19-anyos nga pambato sang Pilipinas nga sang isa ka adlaw lamang nagsaka sa career-high ranking nga 69.
Ini ang debut ni Eala sa main draw sang nasambit nga women’s singles tournament matapos ang iya third round exit sang nagligad nga tuig.
Apisar bag-uhan sa main draw, indi ini ang una nga tion nga makahampang ang Pinay sa Roland Garros bangud kun matandaan nadag-an sini ang juniors doubles trophy kaupod kay Oksana Selekhmeteva sang 2021.
Iloilo City Government, madinalag-on nga nahatag ang allowance sa mga delegado para sa Palarong Pambansa 2025
Madinalag-on nga ginpanagtag sang Iloilo City Government sa koordinasyon sang Iloilo City Schools Division ang allowance sa mga delegado para sa Palarong Pambansa 2025.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Joy Fantilaga, spokesperson ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga paagi sa pagbinuligay kag suporta sang City Accountant, City Budget Officer, City Administrator, City Treasurer, kag mga opisyales sang Department of Eduacation natigayon naton nga na-release ang financial aid sa husto nga tion.
Suno kay Fantilaga, ang Iloilo City Government nag-alokar sang ₱1,522,800 gikan sa ila pundo, samtang dugang nga ₱1,470,100 ang ginhatag pinaagi sa Local School Board (LSB).
Nagpasalig naman ang city government sang pagpasanyog sang paghatag sang serbisyo para sa mga atleta samtang nagapreparar sila sa pagrepresentar indi lamang sang syudad sang Iloilo kag sang probinsya kundi sang bug-os nga rehiyon.
Logo sang Palarong Pambansa 2025, inspired sa labing-una nga Olympic medalist sang Pilipinas
Inspired sa sporting hero kag Olympic swimmer nga si Teofilo Yldefonso ang logo sang 65th Palarong Pambansa.
Base sa gin-release nga logo features, makit-an ang pixelated human figure nga amo ang iconic nga swimming posture ni Yldefonso nga tumandok sang host province nga Ilocos Norte.
Kilala si Yldefonso nga “Ilocano Shark” kag naga-uyat sang rekord bilang una nga Pinoy kag Southeast Asian nga nakadaog sang Olympic medal sang nakuha sini ang bronze medal sa 200-meter breaststroke sa 1928 Amsterdam kag sa 1932 Los Angeles Olympic Games.
Yara man sa desinyo sang logo ang intricate inabel textile tradition sang rehiyon nga may pixel patterns nga nagarepresentar sang warps kag wefts sang traditional weaving.
Ang mga letra nga “I” kag “N” sa logo ang nagapasundayag sang sinan-bola (ball-like) pattern — isa ka signature motif halin sa inabel designs sang National Living Treasure awardee nga si Magdalena Gamayo.
Maga-umpisa ang Palarong Pambansa sa Mayo 24 kag magalawig tubtub sa Hunyo 2.
Ginalauman nga 15,000 ka mga atleta, mga coach, kag DepEd officials halin sa nagkalain-lain nga rehiyon ang magapasakop sa sini nga pinakadaku nga grassroots sporting event para sa student-athletes sa pagpanguna sang Department of Education.
‘I’m back!’ Pacquiao, 46, opisyal na nga ginkumpirma ang iya pagbalik sa ring
Naghatag na ang eight-division legend nga si Manny Pacquiao sang opisyal nga kumpirmasyon sang iya natalana nga pagbalik sa ring.
#TeamPacquiao,” kabahin sang nangin social media post sang 46-anyos nga Pinoy fighter subong nga adlaw.
Nahibaluan nga gina-umpisahan na sini ang iya nga training sa Los Angeles, California agud nga mokondisyon ang lawas ilabi na bangud 2021 pa ang iya katapusan nga professional fight.
Kaupod ni Pacquiao sa Los Angeles ang iya asawa nga si Jinkee kag iya anak nga si Jimuel nga didto na nga daan sa amo nga state.
Natalana nga mag-atubang si Pacquiao kay defending World Boxing Council (WBC) welterweight champion Mario Barrios sa Hulyo 19, 2025 sa Las Vegas, Nevada.
Sang nagligad nga semana nagpaguwa sang latest ranking ang WBC.
Gin-lista ang Filipino southpaw sa numero singko sa 147-pound class apisar nga indi na ini aktibo sa boksing halin pa sang Agusto 2021 sang nalutos siya sa hampang sa idalom sang World Boxing Association.
Base sa nauna nga reports, may plano man nga ibutang ang anak ni Pacquiao nga si Jimuel sa professional boxing sa undercard sang Barrios fight.
Antes ang pagbalik sa ring, natalana anay nga magpahuway ang amay nga Pacquaio sa training kag magatambong ini sa enshrinement sa iya sa International Boxing Hall of Fame sa Canastota, New York.
Manny Pacquiao, nag-abot na sa LA agud mag-umpisa sa training
Nag-abot na si eight-division legend Manny Pacquiao sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika agud umpisahan ang training para sa iya natalana nga pagbalik sa hampang.
Kaupod ni Pacquiao sa Los Angeles, California ang iya asawa nga si Jinkee kag iya anak nga si Jimuel nga didto na nga daan sa amo nga state.
Yara man sa flight ang abyan sini kag trainer nga si Buboy Fernandez.
Amo ini ang ginalantaw nga pag-umpisa sang duha ka bulan nga paghanas sang Pinoy boxer, apang wala pa sang kumpirmasyon kun makaupod sini si Coach Freddie Roach sa Wild Card Boxing Club sa Hollywood ukon magasaylo sa lain nga training facility.
Gin-lista ang 46-anyos nga Filipino southpaw sa numero singko sa 147-pound class apisar nga indi na ini aktibo sa boksing halin pa sang Agusto 2021 sang nalutos siya sa hampang sa idalom sang World Boxing Association.
THE DROUGHT IS OVER: Knicks, nakasulod sa conference finals sa labing-una nga tion halin sang 2000
Sa labing una nga tion sa sulod sang masobra duha ka dekada, nakasulod ang New York Knicks sa finals sang Eastern Conference.
Nahimo ini nga maragtas matapos gintambakan sang team ang defending champions nga Boston Celtics, 119-81, sa Game 6 sang semifinals sa Madison Square Garden, home court sang Knicks.
Pareho nga naka-23 puntos sanday Jalen Brunson kag OG Anunoby para matib-ong ang New York sa amo nga ka daku nga kadalag-an.
Nagdugang naman si Mikal Bridges sang 22 points kag si Karl-Anthony Towns sang 21 points kag 12 rebounds para sa third-seeded team.
Sa Huwebes sa masunod nga semana, atubangon sang Knicks sa conference finals ang fourth-seeded Indiana Pacers nga amo ang nagtumba sa top-seeded nga Cleveland Cavaliers sa semis.
Sa bahin sang defending NBA champion, nanguna si Jaylen Brown nga may 20 points, six rebounds kag six assists antes ini na-foul out sa paghingapos sang third quarter.
Naghampang ang Celtics nga wala ang ila superstar nga si Jayson Tatum bangud sa naangkon sini nga ruptured right Achilles sa Game 4.#
NBA: Game 6 sang Knicks kag Celtics, subong na nga aga
Magabalik sa Madison Square Garden sa New York City ang makahalawat-hawat nga hampang sang Knicks kag Boston Celtics 8:00 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas.
Tinguhaan sang defending champions nga mapatas ang serye sa 3-3 kag mapwersa nga matabo ang Game 7 sa Boston.
13 ka teams lamang sa NBA ang nakatigayon nga makabangon sa 3-1 deficit kag tinguhaan sang Celtics nga mahimo man ini nga wala ang ila star player nga si Jason Tatum nga nakaangkon sang injury sa Game 4.
Kun indi nila ini mahimo, maga-abante si Karl Anthony Towns kag ang Knicks sa conference finals sa labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang 25 ka tuig.
Pananglitan mapalawig ang serye kag may matabo nga Game 7 sa tunga sang Celtics kag Knicks, isa ka adlaw lang ang pahuway sang winner antes atubangon ang Pacers sa finals sang Eastern Conference.
NBA: Game 6 sang Nuggets vs Thunder, balantayan subong nga aga
Balantayan 8:30 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas ang Game 6 sa tunga sang Denver Nuggets kag Oklahoma City Thunder sa Western Conference Semifinals.
Gamiton sang Nuggets ang home court advantage sa sini nga hampang sa Ball Arena sa Denver, Colorado, United States.
Pareho nga available nga maghampang ang superstars sang magtimbang nga bahin kag MVP front-runners nga sanday Shai Gilgeous-Alexander kag Nikola Jokic.
Abanse subong ang Thunder sa serye, 3-2, nga nagabutang kay Jokic kag Nuggets sa alang-alang nga sitwasyon ilabi na bangud duha sa ila players ang injured nga amo sanday DaRon Holmes II kag Hunter Tyson.
Sa pihak nga bahin, yara naman sa injury list sa OKC si Nikola Topic.
Pacquiao, ginkumpirma ang pagbalik sa boxing matapos napaslawan sa eleksyon
Ginkumpirma sang 46-anyos nga Pinoy boxing legend nga si Manny Pacquiao nga magabalik siya sa paghampang sa ring.
Kasunod ini sang iya kapaslawan sa iya pagpadalagan bilang senador sa 2025 midterm elections.
Suno kay Pacquiao, tapuson sini ang iya apat ka tuig nga retirement bangud magabalik anay ini sa boxing kontra kay Mario Barrios para sa WBC welterweight title.
Base sa nauna nga reports, matabo ang hampang sang Pinoy kag 29-anyos nga American boxer sa Las Vegas, Nevada sa Hulyo subong nga tuig.
Sa Hunyo, natalana nga malakip ang Filipino fighter sa International Boxing Hall of Fame nga isa ka legasiya nga magabilin sang bugal sa minilyon nga mga Pilipino.
Sa induction pormal nga kilalahon si Pacquiao bilang isahanon nga boksidor sa kalibutan nga nakadaog sang major world titles sa walo kag nagkalain-lain nga weight classes kag bilang isa ka 12-time world champion.
Katapusan nga naghampang si Pacquaio batok sa Cuban nga si Yordenis Ugas para sa WBA welterweight crown sang August 21, 2021.
Natabo man ang hampang sa Las Vegas kun sa diin nalutos siya sa unanimous 12-round decision.
NBA: Celtics, buhi pa, ginlutos ang Knicks sa Game 5 apisar wala si Tatum
Nanguna si Derrick White nga may 34 points lakip ang pito ka tres agud nga mapadaog ang Boston Celtics batok sa New York Knicks sa Game 5 sang NBA Eastern Conference semifinals, 127-102.
Nagsunod si Jaylen Brown nga may 26 points kag 12 assists, samtang nagdugang naman si Luke Kornet sang 10 points, nine rebounds kag seven blocks.
Nahimo ini sang team apisar wala si Jayson Tatum nga nagpaidalom sa surgery bangud sa ruptured right Achilles tendon nga naangkon sini sa Game 4.
Tinguhaan sang Boston nga mangin ika-14 sa team sa NBA history nga makabangon halin sa 3-1 deficit.
Sa Sabado, 8:00 sa aga oras sa Pilipinas, tinguhaan naman sang Knicks nga makadaog kag kun mahimo nila ini, ini ang mangin labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang 25 ka tuig nga makatapak sila sa Conference finals.
Pananglitan magdaog naman ang reigning champions, mapwersa ang Game 7 sa ila home court sa Martes.
Ginalantaw nga indi na makabalik ang 27-anyos nga six-time All-Star nga si Tatum sa nabilin nga bahin sang playoffs.
Siya ang nagapanguna sa Celtics sa points (28.1), rebounds (11.5) kag assists (5.4) per game sa ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga postseason.
Tandem sang Filipina tennis star Alex Eala kag Grand Slam champion Coco Gauff, nakasulod sa quarterfinals sang 2025 Italian Open women’s doubles sa Rome
Ginpakita sang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala kag Grand Slam champion nga si Coco Gauff ang ila abilidad matapos magbinuligay kag pagsulod sa quarterfinals sang 2025 Italian Open women’s doubles sa Rome.
Una nga beses nga naghugpong sanday Eala kag Gauff kun sa diin nagpakita sang pwersa matapos nga ginlutos ang Italian tandem nga sanday Tyra Grant kag Lisa Pigato sa score nga 6-2, 6-3 sa round-of-16 match.
Madinalag-on ang una nga set para sa duo nga Eala kag Gauff, apang nagpakita man sang pwersa ang Italian tandem sa ikaduha nga set.
Sa ikawalo nga hampang, nagpakita liwat sang mabaskog nga depensa sanday Grant kag Pigato, kun sa diin nagpatas ang score matapos sang isa ka slice ni Grant nga nagdala man sang hampang sa deuce point.
Apang, nagsala si Pigato sa masunod nga rally matapos nga naglapaw sa baseline ang ginpadala nga forehand, rason nga naka-abanse sanday Eala kag Gauff sa score nga 5-3
Nakuha sang magkapareha nga sanday Gauff kag Eala ang kadalag-an sa ila una nga match point matapos ang maalam nga drop shot ni Eala sa net.
Sa masunod nga hampang, makontra nanday Gauff kag Eala ang defending champions sang Italy nga sanday Sara Errani kag Jasmine Paolini sa quarterfinals.
Tandem sang Filipina tennis star Alex Eala kag Grand Slam champion Coco Gauff, nangin mainit ang pag-umpisa sa 2025 Italian Open doubles tournament
Mainit ang pag-umpisa sang tandem sang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala kag Grand Slam champion nga si Coco Gauff sa 2025 Italian Open doubles tournament.
Nagdaog si Eala kag si Gauff batok kanday Alexandra Panova sang Russia kag Fanny Stollár sang Hungary sa score nga 6-3, 6-1, sang Sabado, kun sa diin isa ini ka mabaskog nga performance para sa una nga pagpareha sang duha.
Pagkatapos sang 2-2 nga deadlock sa una nga set, tatlo ka sunod-sunod nga hampang ang ila nakuha, kag gikan didto nagpadayon na ang ila pagdominar tubtob sa katapusan.
Para kay Eala, isa ini ka maayo nga rebound matapos ang mapyerde batok kay Marta Kostyuk sa singles tournament.
Sunod nga makaatubang sang Eala-Gauff tandem amo ang magadaog sa tunga sang pares nga Tyra Grant kag Lisa Pigato sang Italy, kag Irina Khromacheva sang Russia kag Anna Danilina sang Kazakhstan sa round-of-16.
SBP, positibo nga wala sang idagdag nga suspension vs Brownlee
Kumpyansa ang Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP) nga wala sang suspension nga idagdag batok kay Justin Brownlee kag makaupod gihapon ini sa hampang sang Gilas Pilipinas sa FIBA Asia Cup sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
Ginpahayag ini ni SBP president Al Panlilio apisar sang reports nga nagpositibo liwat si Brownlee sa isa ka ginadumilian nga substance nga amo na ang ikaduha nga tion sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.
Sang damlag lang sang nabaton sang naturalized star ang notice sang adverse analytical finding.
Suno sa World Anti-Doping Agency, isa ini ka report nga naga-identify sang presensya sang prohibited substance ukon ang iya metabolites sa sample sang isa ka player.
Apang suno kay Panlilio, may yara sang therapeutic exemption for medicinal purposes si Brownlee kun sa diin nakasaad sa sini nga exemption ang lebel sang marijuana nga dapat makit-an sa dugo kag indi dapat maglapaw diri ang makit-an sa sample.
Gin-athag sini nga inisyal pa lang nga report ang iya nabaton kag wala pa sang opisyal nga kumpirmasyon.
Matandaan nga sang nakuha sang Pilipinas ang maragtason nga gold medal sa Asian Games sa China sang 2023, nagpanguna man sa team si Brownlee apang nagpositibo man ini sa Carboxy-THC nga isa ka prohibited substance nga naangot sa cannabis rason nga gindagdagan siya sang tatlo ka bulan nga suspension.
Magluwas sa isyu sa iligal nga substance, isa man sa ginaatubang sang 37-anyos nga player amo ang injuries sa iya tudlo kasunod sang PBA Commissioner s Cup finals sang Marso.
Siya ang ginasaligan sa Gilas ilabi na bangud sigurado na nga indi makahampang ang big man nga si Kai Sotto bangud sa injury.
Sa Asia Cup sa Agusto, nagtupa ang Pilipinas sa Group D kun sa diin makaatubang sini ang New Zealand, Chinese Taipei, kag Iraq.
Stephen Curry, indi makahampang sa sulod sang isa ka semana bangud sa strained left hamstring
Ini kasunod sang natabo sa Game 1 kun sa diin nagbiya ini sa second quarter bangud sa left hamstring strain kag wala na ini nakabalik.
Indi man tuman ka malala ang Grade 1 hamstring strain apang nagakinahanglan ini sang isa tubtub duha ka semana nga recovery.
Apisar wala si Curry sang Game 1, nasarangan sang Warriors nga makuha ang 1-0 series lead sang nagtakop ang hampang sa skor sa 99-88.
Antes pa man ang iya nga hamstring injury, may injured nga tudlo naman ang Warriors guard sa iya mismo nga shooting hand.
Matabo ang Game 2 sang Wolves kag Warriors, 8:30 buwas sa aga oras sa Pilipinas.
Nagapadayon sa pagsaka ang ranking sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala nga pang-70 na subong sa pwesto sa Women’s Tennis Association (WTA).
Sa edad nga 19-anyos, siya ang pinakabata nga Asian tennis player sa WTA ladder.
Ikaduha naman siya sa youngest tennis player sa Top 70 kasunod kay world No.
7 Mirra Andreeva sang Russia nga subong 18-anyos.
Matandaan nga sang Abril 24, nagsaka si Eala sa world no.
72 kasunod sang maragtason nga performance sa Miami Open nga amo ang nagpalukso sang iya pwesto halin sa world no.
Bag-o lang natapos sang Filipina tennis sensation ang iya kampanya sa Madrid Open kun sa diin nakalab-ot pa sa three sets antes siya nalutos ni world no.
Sa labing-una nga tion, magahampang man si Eala sa Foro Italico sa Rome, Italy matapos nahatagan sang automatic spots sa main draw.
Daku nga pagpanghangkat gilayon ang atubangon sini bangud natuon siya sa bracket kun sa diin yara man nagtupa ang world no.
1 nga si Aryna Sabalenka nga amo ang top seed kag recently-crowned Madrid Open champion.
Yara man sa amo nga heavyweight field si Swiatek nga amo ang defending Italian Open champion.
Mikee Cojuangco-Jaworski, bag-o nga chair sang Coordination Commission para sa 2032 Olympics
Gin-appoint ang Filipina sports official nga si Mikee Cojuangco-Jaworski bilang bag-o nga chairperson sang International Olympic Committee Coordination Commission para sa 2032 Olympic Games sa Brisbane, Australia.
Ginhimo ang appointment matapos nga nagpanaog sa amo nga pwesto si IOC President-Elect Kirsty Coventry matapos nga na-eleher ini bilang president sang amo nga organisasyon.
Maga-oversee ang Pinay sa pagplano kag pag-deliver sang Olympic Games Brisbane 2032 kag magapanguna sa pagtrabaho kaupod sa Organizing Committee, Olympic Movement stakeholders, local authorities kag International Sports Federations.
Nahibaluan nga gold medalist ang Pinay sa 2002 Asian Games kag naghanas sang masobra duha ka dekada sa Australia sa iya karera bilang equestrian.
Nangin parte man siya anay sang coordination commissions para sa Olympic Games sa Tokyo 2020, Paris 2024, kag Brisbane 2032.
Pacquiao, liwat nga magasaka sa ring sa Hulyo- WBC
Ginkumpirma ni World Boxing Council (WBC) president Mauricio Sulaiman ang liwat nga pagsaka sa ring ni retired Pinoy boxer Manny Pacquiao.
Sang nagligad nga tuig pa naggwa ang huring-huring nga may negosasyon sa sambuwa sang duha ka mga boksedor.
Sang Agosto 2021 pa ang ulihi nga away ni Pacquiao kun sa diin ginpierde siya ni Yordenis Ugas sang Cuba kag pila ka bulan pagkatapos sadto, iya gin-anunsyo ang pagretiro.
Nagapangagda ang local government sang Passi City sa pagsaksi sa volleyball matches subong nga hapon, Mayo 3, kun sa diin featured ang ‘next generation of champions.’
Yari ang schedule sang mga sambuwa sa ginatawag nga “PASSIKLABAN: The Volleyball Next-Gen”:
Stephen Palmares, wala sang kinahanglan nga bayaran kun maglantaw sa sini nga mga hampang gani mahimo gid dal-on ang mga pamilya kag mga abyan.
NBA: LeBron James, indi sigurado kun makahampang pa sa masunod nga season
Wala pa nakahibalo ang National Basketball Association (NBA) superstar nga si LeBron James kun makabalik pa ini sa liga para sa iya ika-23 nga season.
Kahapon sang nadagdag na ang Lakers sa first round sang playoffs matapos nalutos sa kamot sang Minnesota Timberwolves sa Game 5, 103-96.
Pahayag sang basketball legend, pungkuan pa niya ang desisyon kaupod sa iya nga pamilya, kag padalman man sini kun ano kadugay pa ini magahampang.
40-anyos na si James kag may average nga 24.4 points, 7.8 rebounds kag 8.2 assists per game subong nga season.
Siya man ang all-time leader scorer sa liga kag una nga player sa maragtas sang NBA nga nakalapaw sa 50,000 career points.
Naupdan man sini ang NBA icon nga si Michael Jordan sa record nga naka-skor sang 40 points sa edad nga 40-anyos.
Bisan sa bag-o nga mga record, ang pinaka-importante para kay James subong nga season amo nga naka-upod sini ang iya anak nga si Bronny sa court.
Sila ang una nga father-son duo nga nakahampang sa regular season NBA game.
Alex Eala, nakabaton sang ‘Premios Tanglaw’ trophy halin sa PH envoy sa Spain
Nakabaton ang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sang Premios Tanglaw trophy sa iya pagbisita kay Philippine Ambassador to Spain Philippe Lhuillier.
Ini nga award ang ginahatag sa mga Pilipino kag Spaniards nga may kontribusyon sa pagpabakod sang relasyon sa tunga sang Espanya kag Pilipinas.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nahatagan man sang kaangay nga tropeo sanday Isabel Preysler, anay Senator Ed Angara, kag 12 ka iban pa.
Nagapang-72 subong si Eala sa rankings sang WTA kag bag-o lang nagtakop ang kampanya sa 2025 Madrid Open kun sa diin nalutos ini sa kamot sang world no.
2 kag defending champion nga si Iga Swiatek.
Sixth seed siya kuntani sa Catalonia Open sa Espanya, apang sa latest nga impormasyon, indi na ini magdayon sa pag-compete.
Ginalantaw nga pasulabihon sini ang preparasyon sa Italian Open sa Mayo 6-18, kag sa French Open kun sa diin nakasulod siya sa main draw sang isa ka Grand Slam sa labing-una nga tion sa iya karera.
Ang team nga ginatawag nga J3 ang ginabug-usan sang mga players nga sanday Joshua Jerome Estares, Nathaniel Boblo, Arlo Salvacion, Jefferson Descarial, June Louie Biclar, Warren Trestiza, Petar Sajko, Jarlson Derutas, kag Kenneth Lecoto.
Ang ila naman manager amo si Neil Jeffrey Reyes.
EJ Obiena, nagpang-pito sa Wanda Diamond League – Xiamen 2025 sa China
Nagtapos ang Pinoy pole vault star nga si EJ Obiena sa ikapito nga pwesto sa Wanda Diamond League – Xiamen 2025 sa China.
Ini matapos nalukso sini ang 5.62-meter mark sa event.
Nagtinguha pa ang Filipino Olympian nga malapawan ang 5.72 apang napaslawan sa tatlo ka beses.
Sa 10 ka players, nanguna liwat ang back-to-back world record holder kag two-time Olympic gold medalist nga si Armand Duplantis sang Sweden.
Nakalukso ini sa marka nga 5.92 meters, apang napaslawan na sang tatlo ka beses sang nagtinguha ini nga maglapaw sa sais metros.
Pareho naman kay Obiena nga 5.62 meters ang nalukso sang Paris silver medalist nga si Sam Kendricks, samtang nagpangaduha naman kay Duplantis si Paris Games bronze medalist Emmanouil Karalis nga naka-5.82 meters.
4 ang rank ni Obiena kag wala man nakasulod sa 2025 World Athletics Indoor Championships sang Marso bangud sa injury nga iya ginsuprer sang 2024.
Antes sini nga kumpetisyon, diri siya sa Pilipinas naghanas kaupod ang iban nga players sa idalom ni Coach Vitaly Petrov.
Alex Eala, ginkabos sa panibag-o nga upset vs world no.
Ginkabos ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala nga makahimo sang panibag-o nga upset sa ila liwat nga pagkitaay sang Polish player kag world no.
Natabo ang rematch sa Round of 64 sa 2025 Mutua Madrid Open matapos ang natabo sa Miami Open kun sa diin ginlutos sang Pinay si Swiatek nga isa ka five-time Grand Slam champion, 6-2, 7-5.
Sa clay court sa Madrid kagab-i, Abril 24, nakuha sang 19-anyos nga si Eala ang first set, 6-4, apang napatas ini sang Polish sa 1-1 matapos nakuha ang second frame, 6-4.
Nabatyagan ang pressure sa third set nga amo ang magatumod sang magadaog, kag didto na nga wala na nasustiner ni Eala ang hampang kun sa diin naglabaw ang mas eksperyensyado nga player, 6-2.
Bangud sa pagpalaam sa Madrid, magatutok naman ang world no.
72 nga Filipino pride sa preparasyon sini sa WTA 125 Challenger Catalonia Open sa Espanya nga maga-umpisa naman sa Abril 28.
Alex Eala, daug sa pagbukas sang iya campaign sa Madrid Open
Nagdaug ang Pinay tennis sensation kag world no.
72 nga si Alex Eala sa pagbukas sang iya campaign sa Madrid Open.
In matapos siya nangibabaw batok sa Bulgarian nga si Viktoriya Tomova, sa score nga 6-3, 6-2,sa Round of 128 kahapon sa Spain.
Bangud sa kadalag-an, sunod nga atubangon ni Eala si Iga Swiatek sa Round of 64.
Una na nag-atubangay sanday Eala kag Swiatek sa Miami Open kun sa diin nagdaug ang Pinay batok sa world no.
Tennis: Alex Eala, Iga Swiatek, posible nga mag-atubangay liwat sa Madrid Open
Mahimo mag-atubangay liwat ang world no.
2 nga si Iga Swiatek sa ila pagpasakop sa Madrid Open sa Caja Magica sa Espanya.
Base sa resulta sang draw, nagtuon ang Pinay tennis star sa bracket kun sa diin yara man ang Polish player kun sa diin awtomatiko na ini nga nag-abante sa Round of 64.
Matandaan nga nagkit-anay man ang duha sa Miami Open kun sa diin nahimo sang 19-anyos nga Filipina ang daku nga upset sa quarterfinals.
Apang antes ang ila posible nga rematch, kinahanglan anay nga lutuson ni Eala ang world no.
64 nga si Viktoriya Tomova sang Bulgaria sa Round of 128 5:00 karon sa hapon, oras sa Pilipinas.
30-anyos ang edad sang top player sang Bulgaria nga nakapang-46 anay sa WTA ranking sang 2024 matapos nakasulod sa second round sang French Open kag US Open.
Ini nga veteran player ang may WTA 125 title sa idalom sang iya belt nga amo ang 2023 Chicago Challenger, kag nakadaog man sang 18 ITF titles.
Ang iya pinakamaayo nga resulta subong nga tuig amo ang quarterfinal finish sa WTA 250 Transylvania Open sa Cluj-Napoca, Romania sang Pebrero; samtang ang pinakadalayawon naman nga nahimo ni Eala amo ang semifinal finish sa Miami kun sa diin napierde sini ang tatlo ka Grand Slam champions.
Nangin top seed man si Eala sa Oeiras Ladies Open sa Portugal sa nagligad nga semana nga amo ang pamuno sang iya clay court season, apang nalutos ini sa Round of 16 sa kamot ni Panna Udvardy sang Hungary.
Timberwolves, gindominar ang Lakers; Nuggets, nalutsan ang Clippers sa pagsugod sang NBA playoffs
Ginlutos sang Minnesota Timberwolves si LeBron James kag ang Los Angeles Lakers, 117-95, sa opisyal nga pag-umpisa sang National Basketball Association (NBA) Western Conference playoff series.
Nanguna sa Wolves si Jaden McDaniels nga may 25 points samtang may 22 points naman ang young superstar nga si Anthony Edwards.
Sa Lakers, may 37 puntos si Luka Doncic sa iya una nga post-season game kaupod sa Los Angeles; samtang, si LeBron naman nga nagalagas sa iya ikalima nga titulo sa iya ika-22 nga season sa liga ang nagdugang sang 19 points matapos wala gid naka-skor sa first quarter.
Ang Lakers amo lamang ang isahanon nga home team nga nalutos sa imbukada nga adlaw sa first-round action sa playoffs.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nalutsan naman sang Denver Nuggets ang Los Angeles Clippers, 112-110, paagi sa overtime didto sa Denver.
Nanguna ang Reigning NBA Most Valuable Player nga si Nikola Jokic nga may 29 points kag Aaron Gordon nga may 25 points agud mapanas ang temprano nga 15-pt deficit sa hampang.
Daog naman ang New York Knicks paagi sa pagbubo sang 40 puntos sa fourth quarter sa hampang sini batok sa Detroit Pistons sa Madison Square Garde.
Samtang, malayo naman ang antad sang Indiana Pacers sa ila hampang batok kay two-time NBA MVP Giannis Antetokounmpo kag Milwaukee Bucks nga nagtapos sa 117-98.
Alex Eala, magatutok na sa Madrid Open matapos nalutos sa Round of 16 sa Portugal
Magatutok na ang 19-anyos nga Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa preparasyon sini sa Madrid Open sa Espanya nga natalana nga mag-umpisa sa masunod nga semana.
Ini matapos temprano nga nagtakop ang kampanya sini sa Oeiras Ladies Open sa Portugal bangud nalutos sa Round of 16.
Nakuha sang kasumpong ni Eala nga si Panna Udvardy sang Hungary ang kadalag-an paagi sa pagdominar sa top seed sa straight sets, 7-6, 6-4.
Nahibaluan nga ika-137 si Udvardy sa WTA rankings samtang ika-72 naman si Eala.
Sa doubles naman, nalutos man ang Pinay kag partner sini nga si Katie Volynets sa Round of 16 sa kamot sang Americans nga sanday Christina Rosca kag Carmen Corley.
Ang tournament sa Portugal amo ang una nga sabak ni Eala sa hampang matapos ang impresibo nga performance sa Miami Open nga nagpasaka sang iya ranking sa Top 100.
Gin-anunsyo sang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) nga gin-postpone ang palaabuton nga All-Star Weekend nga una kuntani gin-schedule sa una nga semana sang Mayo sa Davao.
Suno kay Commissioner Willie Marcial, may yara sang kahangawa sa seguridad nga amo ang mayor nga rason kun ngaa indi pagdayunon ang aktibidad.
Posible suno sa natungdan nga isaylo ang venue sa Visayas nga naka-host man anay sang All-Star Weekend ukon ikansela na gid lang ang bug-os nga event.
Wala sang ginpahayag nga potential replacement, apang nakadepende pa ang tanan sa resulta sang mga diskusyon tubtub sa masunod nga semana.
Sa Mayo 2-4 kuntani ang event sa Davao nga amo man ang nagamarka sang pagbalik sang old Veterans batok sa Rookies Sophomores kag Juniors format.
May plano man kuntani nga magpatigayon sang side-event nga naga-feature sang players halin sa Mindanao.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, ang Bacolod City amo ang nag-host sang All-Star Game nga nagtakop sa 140-140 draw sa tunga sang Team Japeth Aguilar kag Team Mark Barroca kasunod sang historic five-point play ni Robert Bolick.#
Alex Eala, daog sa opening round sang Oeiras Ladies Open sa Portugal
Nangibabaw ang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa opening round sang 2025 Oeiras Ladies Open sa Portugal, kahapon.
Ginpierde ni Eala si Anouk Koevermans sang Netherlands sa score nga 6-3, 6-4.
Nahibaluan nga sa amo nga tournament, si Eala ang seeded No.
1sa pinakauna nga tion sa iya career sa WTA event.
Handom niya ang follow-up sa iya historic run sa WTA 1000 Miami Open, kun sa diin nakalab-ot siya sa semifinals kag ginlutos ang tatlo ka Grand Slam champions, kalakip diri ang world No.
Sunod, maga-advance si Eala sa second round kun sa diin hulaton niya ang magadaug sa winner sang match sa tunga nanday former world No.
Sanday Eala kag Volynets nga unseeded sa doubles, ang magaatubang sa fourth seeded nga sanday Carmen Corley kag Christina Rosca sang United States subong nga Mierkules.
Boxing: Nietes, daog sa iya una nga away matapos ang halos tatlo ka tuig nga pahuway
Nagdaog ang former four-division world champion kag longest-reigning boxing titleholder sang Pilipinas nga si Donnie “Ahas” Nietes sa iya pagbalik sa ring sa labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang halos tatlo ka tuig.
Ginlutos sang 42-anyos nga boksidor ang kaangay man nga Pinoy fighter nga si Miller Alapormina, 27, sa six-round bantamweight clash sa Elorde Sports Center sa Parañaque City.
Nagtakop ang hampang sa unanimous decision sa skor nga lunsay 59-55 pabor sa former champion.
Nagsaka na ang professional boxing record ni Nietes sa 44-2-6 nga may 23 knockouts.
Katapusan nga nakahampang si Nietes sang 2022 kun sa diin nalutos ini via unanimous decision sa world title rematch batok sa Japanese rival sini nga si Kazuto Ioka.
Antes sini, ginakilala man si Nietes nga isa sa most decorated Filipino boxers nga nakauyat sang WBO minimumweight title halin sang 2007 tubtub sang 2011 antes nakuha ang world titles sa flyweight kag super flyweight divisions.
NBA: Luka Doncic, nagbalik sa Dallas para sa hampang sang Lakers vs Mavericks
Ginbantayan subong nga aga ang pagbalik sang basketball superstar guard nga si Luka Doncic sa Dallas, Texas, USA indi bilang isa ka Maverick kundi isa na ka kasumpong.
Ini ang una nga bes nga maga-bisita si Luka sa Dallas halin sang natabo ang blockbuster trade sang Pebrero 2, 2025 nga amo ang nagsaylo sa iya sa Los Angeles Lakers kabaylo sa 10-time All-Star nga si Anthony Davis.
Ini naman ang una nga tion nga magahampang si Davis kaupod ang Dallas batok sa Los Angeles.
Kun matandaan, nagsuprer siya sang injury sang una nga nagkit-anay ang duha ka teams sang Pebrero 25.
Ang Dallas ang nagdaog sang titulo sa Western Conference sang nagligad nga season, apang nagapang-10 ini subong sa standings.
Ang Lakers naman ang nagapangatlo subong sa conference.
Antes sini nga hampang, ginpaguwa si Luka sa hampang sang Lakers batok sa Oklahoma City Thunder bangud sa iya ikaduha nga technical foul.
Nalutos ang Lakers sa amo nga game sa skor nga 136-120.
Kinahanglan nga daugon sang Lakers ang duha sa ila nabilin nga tatlo ka mga hampang agud nga makakuha sang pwesto sa West.
Alex Eala, nagahanda na para sa French Open
Matapos ang maragtason nga performance sa Miami Open sang damlag lang, liwat na naman nga magahampang ang Pinay tennis sensation nga si Alex Eala sa French Open.
Suno sa 19-anyos nga tennis star, naumpisahan na niya ang clay training para sa 2025 French Open kun sa diin ginalauman nga mahimo niya ang iya first-ever main draw appearance sa professional ranks.
Apang ginpakigbahin ni Eala nga madugay na siya nga wala nakahampang sa clay surface kag kalabanan sa hard kag grass courts sa nagligad nga pila ka bulan.
73 nga mataas ang iya confidence matapos ang dalayawon nga hampang sa Miami Open, kun sa dian nalab-ot niya ang semifinals paagi sa pagpierde sa mga nalakip sa top 10 players kaangay nanday Iga Swiatek kag Madison Keys.
Magasugod ang French Open sa Mayo 25 tubtob Hunyo 8 kun sa diin ginalauman ang presensya ni world no.
1 Aryna Sabalenka kag iban nga top players.
NBA: Monster triple-double ni Jokic, nauyang na naman sa 4th straight loss sang Nuggets
Nauyang na naman ang monster triple double sang Nuggets superstar nga si Nikola Jokic kadungan sang ikaapat nga sunod-sunod nga kalutusan.
Ginpierde sila sang Indiana Pacers, 125-120, sa mismo home court sang Denver.
Ini naman ang pang-apat nga sunod-sunod nga daog sang Pacers kag napabaskog ang ila pagkapyot sa ikaapat nga pwesto sa Eastern Conference.
Nagtapos si Jokic nga may 41 points, 15 rebounds and 13 assists nga amo na ang iya ika-32 nga triple-double sa sini nga season.
Bisan pa nga yara si Christian Braun nga may 20 sang iya 30 points sa second half, nalutos gihapon ang Denver kag subong may record nga 47-32.
Sa sini nga hampang, 21 points man ang nahimo ni Jokic sa opening period nga amo ang pagpang-apat nga tion sa iya karera nga naka-20 plus siya sa first quarter.
Ang amo nga game amo man ang pang-lima nga sunod-sunod nga hampang nga wala nakaupod si Jamal Murray bangud sa injury, apang nagalaum si Coach Michael Malone nga makabalik ang iya star point guard sa pagsugod sang NBA playoffs.
Filipino tennis star Alex Eala, nagtaas ang rangko sa WTA
Nagtaas ang rangko ni Filipino tennis star Alex Eala sa Women’s Tennis Association (WTA), bisan wala pa nakabalik sa kompetisyon pagkatapos sang 2025 Miami Open.
Suno sa pinakaulihi nga listahan nga ginpagwa sang WTA, nagsaka si Eala sa No.
Ginkilala sang WTA ang makasaysayan nga performance ni Eala sa nasambit nga hinampang, nga nagtulod sa iya sa pag-angat sa world rankings.
Sa kabug-usan, nakalampuwas si Eala sang 67 ka rangko halin sa iya daan nga posisyon nga No.
Bangud sini, nagdako ang posibilidad nga makasulod na siya sa Grand Slam, kag posibleng mag-debut sa nagapahilapit nga French Open.
Natalana nga magdugang sa listahan sang Basketball Hall of Fame ang ten-time NBA All-Star nga si Carmelo Anthony, eight-time All-Star nga si Dwight Howard, kag ang women’s basketball icon nga si Sue Bird.
Nag-retiro si Anthony sa paghampang sang basketball sang 2023 duha ka dekada matapos gin-draft ini sang Denver Nuggets kag nakapagkit sang iya pangalan bilang isa sa pinakamaayo nga scorer sa maragtas sang liga.
May average siya nga 22.5 points per game sa kasagsagan sang iya karera kag ginakilala man nga 10th all-time sa NBA scoring nga may 28,289 points.
Si Howard naman amo ang number 1 draft pick sang 2004 kag nagbulig sa Los Angeles Lakers nga makuha ang kampyonato sang 2020.
Ginakilala siya sa bansag nga “Superman” bangud sa iya all-round offensive kag defensive game.
Lima ka beses naman nga nagdaog sang Olympic gold si Bird kag isa sa ginakabig nga greatest players sa maragtas sang women’s basketball matapos naghampang sang 21 seasons kaupod sa Seattle Storm antes ini nagretiro sa 2022.
Magluwas sa ila, ang iban pa nga Hall of Fame entrants nagalakip sang gold medal-winning 2008 Olympic men’s basketball squad sang US nga ginabansagan nga “the Redeem Team” matapos napaslawan nga makuha ang bulawan sang 2004.
Football match sang Kaya FC Iloilo vs Manila Diggers FC, nagtapos sa draw nga may 1-1 nga score
Nangin masandukot ang football match sa tunga sang Kaya FC Iloilo kag Manila Diggers FC sa Philippine Football League nga ginpatigayun sa Iloilo Sports Complex.
Ini matapos man nga nagluntad ang komosyon sa tunga sang Manila Diggers kag sang referee.
Nagsugod ang amo nga hitabo matapos nga ginsulong sang player sang Manila Diggers FC ang referee kasunod sang wala gin-isip ang ila goal.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Alfredo Cortez, goalkeeper sang Kaya FC Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ka intense ang ila nangin game match sang Manila Diggers FC.
Suno pa sa natungdan, apisar sang pagkadismaya sang player sang Manila Diggers sa referee, ginadayaw sini sa gihapon ang nangin performance sang ila nangin kasumpong.
Indi man sini manegar nga nangin mainit ang hinampang sa umpisa tubtob nagtapos sa draw sa score nga 1-1.
Full List sang PBA 50 Greatest Players: Sulod bala ang imo idol?
Sin-o ang imo paborito nga player sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA)?
Kun ikaw fan sang basketball, i-check ini nga lista bangud gin-release sang liga ang dugang nga 10 ka myembro sang exclusive PBA Greatest Players club kadungan sang selebrasyon sang ila golden anniversary.
Justin Brownlee, nagapangatubang sang posible ikaduha na nga doping violation
Nabutang sa alang-alang ang status sang Gilas Pilipinas import nga si Justin Brownlee kun makahampang bala ini kaupod ang national team sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup.
Ini matapos nagguwa ang ikaduha nga posible nga doping violation nga mahimo mangin rason kun ngaa indi siya pag-ilakip sa tournament sa Saudi Arabia nga magasugod na sa Agusto 5-17.
Mismo si Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP) president Al Panlilio ang nagkumpirma nga nabaton na sang national federation ang notice sang adverse analytical finding (AAF) sa isa sa random tests kay Brownlee.
Ini nga notification amo ang pagpositibo sa substance nga yara sa lista sang mga ginadumilian sang World Anti-Doping Agency.
May indi pa kumpirmado nga reports nga nagasiling nga ini nga test ang naangot sa paggamit sang recreational drug, apang wala pa sang statement halin sa kampo sang naturalized star.
Apang suno sa SBP, ginahikot na ni Brownlee ini nga isyu kaupod ang iya legal team nga nakabase sa Estados Unidos.
Kun ma-suspend si Brownlee, ini na ang ikaduha nga tion nga madagdagan ini sang suspensyon nga naangot sa iligal nga droga.
Matandaan nga pagkatapos nga ginpangunahan sini ang gold medal win sang Pilipinas sa Asian Games sa China sang 2023, ginkumpirma man nga nagpositibo siya sa Carboxy-THC nga isa ka compound nga naangot sa cannabis.
Sunod siya nga gindagdagan sang tatlo ka bulan nga suspensyon sa anuman nga organized basketball.
Sang nakabalik, ginpangunahan liwat sini ang Gilas lakip sa maragtason nga Olympic Qualifying Tournament run sa Riga, Latvia, kag ang dominant run sa Asia Cup Qualifiers nga amo ang naghatag sang spot sa Pilipinas sa main tournament sa Agusto.
Pananglitan indi gid man makaupod ang Tifton, Georgia native sa Gilas, una na nagguwa ang pangalan ni Ange Kouame nga amo ang naturalized player nga magabulos sa iya.
Nadepensahan sang Pinoy boxer nga si Melvin Jerusalem ang World Boxing Council (WBC) minimumweight crown matapos ginlutos paagi sa unanimous decision ang Japanese fighter nga si Yudai Shigeoka.
Sa rematch sa Aichi Sky Dome sa Japan, ginpamatud-an ni Jerusalem nga sa iya dapat magkadto ang 105-pound crown matapos nakuha ang scores nga 118-110, 119-109 kag 116-112.
Antes ang hampang, knockout kuntani ang tuyo sang Pinoy, apang kuntento na ini kun mahatag sa iya ang daku nga antad sa kadalag-an ipaanggid sa split decision win nga iya naangkon batok sa Japanese southpaw sang nagligad nga tuig.
Si Jerusalem nga tumandok sang Manolo Fortich, Bukidnon ang nagsaka na subong sa 24-3 record nga may 12 knockouts, samtang nag-us-os naman si Shigeoka sa 9-2 nga may 5 knockouts.
Una na nga nagpasalig ang promoter nga may mas daku nga away si Jerusalem subong nga tuig kun malutos sini liwat si Shigeoka.
Ginalantaw ang unification sa World Boxing Organization kag World Boxing Association champion nga si Oscar Collazo nga amo ang naglutos kay Jerusalem bilang WBO minimumweight champion sang 2023.
Ganhaan sang Grand Slam tennis tournaments, magabukas na para kay Alex Eala
Natalana nga magbukas ang ganhaan sang Grand Slam tournaments para sa Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala matapos sini ginpanglutos ang tatlo ka Grand Slam champions sa Miami, Florida, USA.
Subong nga semana natalana nga mangin opisyal nga makalab-ot si Eala sa No.
75 sa world rankings kun matapos na ang Miami Open kag ma-refresh na ang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) ranking.
Sa live ranking nga unofficial kag real-time projection sang standing sang player base sa ila resulta, pang-75 na si Eala nga daku nga lukso halin sa pwesto sini nga pang-140 antes ang iya Cinderella run sa Miami.
Lakip sa masudlan niya kun yara siya sa Top 100 amo ang French Open sa summer.
Eligible man ang Pinay sa direct invite sa Wimbledon kag US Open matapos ang iya first-round exit sa Australian Open qualifiers sang nagligad nga Enero.
Ini bangud may direkta na siya nga entry sa kada main draw sang masters kag major tournaments lakip na ang Roland Garros, Wimbledon, Australian Open kag US Open sa kondisyon nga magpabilin lang siya sa sulod sang elite circle.
Sang una, nakahampang lamang si Eala sa sini nga tournaments paagi sa wildcard invite kag tubtub lamang sa qualification rounds kag wala na nakaabante sa main draw.
Kun matabo ini, si Eala ang mangin una nga Pinay nga makahampang sa main draw sang anuman nga Grand Slam tournament.
4 nga si Pegula sa semis sang Miami Open subong nga adlaw
Balantayan subong nga adlaw kun mapabilin sang Pinay tennis sensation nga si Alex Eala ang iya momentum sa Miami Open.
Atubangon ni Eala si Jessica Pegula sa Miami Open semifinals, 8:30 subong nga aga.
Si Pegula ang nakalab-ot sa finals sang 2024 US Open kun sa diin napierde siya sa kamot sang world no.
Matandaan nga nakasulod ang 19-anyos nga si Eala sa labing-una ng tion sa WTA semifinals paagi sa pagpierde sa world No.
Sulod na sa semifinals sang Miami Open ang 19-anyos nga Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala matapos ginlutos ang world no.
2 kag five-time Grand Slam champion nga si Iga Swiatek sa quarterfinal round subong nga kaagahon, Marso 27 (oras sa Pilipinas).
6-2, 7-5 ang resulta sang hampang nga isa sa major upsets nga nahimo sa tournament nga natigayon sa kamot sang isa ka wildcard kag isa ka rising star nga pang-140 lamang sa world rankings.
Hulaton na lamang ni Eala ang winner sang quarters match sa tunga nanday Emma Raducanu kag Jessica Pegula nga amo ang iya maka-atubang sa semis.
Indi basta-basta ang napatumba ni Eala bangud ini nga Polish star ang nakadaog sa French Open sang apat ka beses kag isa ka bes naman sa US Open.
1 man anay si Swiatek sa sulod sang 125 ka semana nga amo ang ikapito nga pinakamalawig nga pagtinir sa number one spot sa world rankings sa modern era.
Antes ang ila matchup sini nga kaagahon, ginbalikan pa sang tennis fans ang hitabo sa Rafael Nadal Academy kun sa diin sang nag-graduate si Eala sang 2023, si Swiatek ang special guest sa graduation rites nga sang amo nga tion preska pa sa iya kadalag-an sa French Open.
2, nangin matunog na ang pangalan ni Eala sa tennis world bangud sa paglutos sa top-ranked opposition sa una nga tatlo ka rounds lakip si world No.
Alex Eala, sigurado na nga makabaton sang malapit P11-M nga prize money
Sigurado na nga makabaton ang Pinay tennis sensation nga si Alex Eala sang malapit sa ₱11 million nga prize money matapos makasulod sa Miami Open quarterfinals.
Suno sa Women’s Tennis Association website, ang mga players nga nag-qualify sa quarterfinals ang sigurado na nga may mabaton nga $189,075 (malapit sa ₱10.9 million) kag 215 points kada isa.
Si Eala ang natalana kuntani mag-atubang kay Paula Badosa sa Round of 16 apang nag-atras ang Spanish player bangud sa lower back injury, nga naghatag sa rising Filipino star sang automatic nga quarterfinals spot.
Ang 19-year-old nga si Eala ang magaatubang sa world No.
2 kag five-time grand slam winner Iga Swiatek sang Poland sa quarterfinals subong nga Mierkules.
Kun magdaug si Eala, makabaton ini sang $332,160 (₱19.1 million) kag 390 points sa pag- advance sa semifinals.
Alex Eala, ginlutos ang Australian Open champion kag world no.
Liwat na naman nga ginpabilib sang 19-anyos nga Pinay star nga si Alex Eala ang mga tennis fans sa kalibutan matapos ginlutos ang world No.
5 nga American player nga si Madison Keys sa third round sang Miami Open sa Florida, USA.
6-4, 6-2 ang resulta sang hampang nga amo na ang pangatlo nga daku nga upset nga nahimo ni Eala sa sini nga tournament.
Sa amo nga WTA event, underdog ang Filipina player nga ika-140 lamang sa world rankings.
Ini ang nagabutang kay Eala sa record bilang una nga Pinoy sa Open Era nga nakalutos sa top-10 opponent halin sang gin-umpisahan ang ranking system sang 1975.
Sunod nga atubangon ni Eala amo ang world No.
Nahibaluan nga si Keys, 30, amo subong ang reigning champion sa Australian Open.
Antes sa iya, ginlutos man ni Eala ang world No.
73 nga si Katie Volynets sang US sa opening round, kag ang former French Open champion nga si Jelena Ostapenko sang Latvia sa round of 64.#
PBA: Gin Kings, nagahilapit na sa Commissioner’s Cup title matapos ang Game 5 comeback vs.
Isa ka daog na lang ang kinahanglan ni Coach Tim Cone kag Barangay Ginebra antes mahakwat ang tropeyo sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) Season 49 Commissioner’s Cup.
Nakuha sang Gin Kings ang 3-2 lead sa best-of-seven series matapos naghingagaw-lagas sa ikatatlo kag ikaapat nga quarters sang Game 5 batok sa TNT Tropang Giga tubtub nagtakop ini sa skor nga 73-66.
Nag-obra ang mahika nanday Scottie Thompson kag Justin Brownlee sa game agud masalbar ang team lakip na ang ila pagbuslanay sa 8-0 closing run sa paghingapos sang sambuwa sa Smart Araneta Coliseum.
18 points, 14 rebounds, kag 5 assists ang nahimo ni Brownlee, samtang nagpa-ulan naman si Thompson sang 16 points, 10 rebounds, 5 assists, kag 2 steals.
Nanguna naman sa TNT ang import nga si Rondae Hollis-Jefferson nga may 19 points kag 12 rebounds.
Talalupangdon nga wala na ini naka-skor sa final 11 minutes sang game.
Balantayan ang Game 6 sa Miyerkules, Marso 26, sa amo sa gihapon nga venue.#
Tennis: Alex Eala, magaatubang kay reigning Australian Open champion Madison Keys sa Miami
Balantayan umpisa 1:30 sa Lunes sa kaagahon (oras sa Pilipinas) ang pag-atubang ni Alex Eala sa reigning Australian Open champion kag world No.
Kasugpon ini sang underdog role sang 19-anyos nga Pinay star sa amo nga tournament sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA).
Pang-140 si Eala sa world rankings apang nakaplastar na sang iya pangalan sa Miami Gardens matapos duha na ka beses nga nakahimo sang upset — una batok sa world No.
73 nga si Katie Volynets sang US, kag ikaduha batok sa former French Open champion nga si Jelena Ostapenko sang Latvia.
Sa sini nga round of 32, indi lamang Grand Slam champion ang atubangon ni Eala kundi isa sa ginakabig nga most in-form players sa WTA circuit subong nga season.
Ang 30-anyos nga player ang naglutos sa kaangay niya nga American kag world no.
Duha ka semana ang nakaligad, naghimo ini sang maragtas bilang oldest first-time women’s Grand Slam champion sang nagpangibabaw ini sa Australian Open.
Sa pihak nga bahin, sa sini nga tournament, madamo naman sang record nga nahimo ang Pinay tennis star kaangay sang una nga pagdaog batok sa multiple Grand Slam winner; una nga pagdaog sa player nga sulod sa top 25 sa kalibutan; kag una nga tion nga nakaabante sa third round sang isa ka WTA event.
Alex Eala, ginlutos ang 2017 French Open champion sa Miami, nag-abante na sa Round of 32
Ginlutos sang 19-anyos nga Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala ang 2017 French Open champion nga si Jelena Ostapenko sa Round of 64 sang Miami Open sa Florida, USA.
140 nga bugal sang Pilipinas sa Round of 32.
Naghilibion si Eala sang nahimo sini ang panibag-o nga upset, 7-6, 7-5, nga amo ang ginalantaw pinakadaku nga kadalag-an sa iya karera sa tennis.
Indi halos ini makapati bangud pang-numero 25 si Ostapenko sa world rankings kag kilala man nga nabulsa ang 2024 US Open women’s doubles title kaupod ang isa ka player halin sa Ukraine.
Antes nag-atubang sa 27-anyos nga Latvian player, ginlutos man ni Eala sa imbukada nga hampang ang world no.
73 nga si Katie Volynets sang United States, 6-3, 7-6 (7-3).
Buwas na ang masunod nga round sa hampang ni Eala apang ginabantayan pa kun sin-o ang makasambuwa sini.
Balantayan ang pagbalik sang Filipina tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa court Sabado sang kaagahon (oras sa Pilipinas) matapos ang daku nga kadalag-an nga nahimo sa imbukada nga hampang sa Miami Open.
Sa Round of 128, nakuha ni Eala ang ginakabig pinakadaku sini nga kadalag-an subong nga tuig matapos gin-upset ang home bet kag world no.
73 nga si Katie Volynets sa skor nga 6-3, 7-6.
Ini man ang una nga daog sang 19-anyos nga Pinay halin sang nagpasakop siya sa amo nga tournament sang 2021.
Isa ka oras kag 52 minutos ang ginlawig sang tennis match antes sini nalutos ang American player.
Ikaduha man ini nga tion nga nakalampas si Eala sa first round sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) 1000 event halin sang nahimo man ini sa Madrid Open sa Spain sang nagligad nga tuig.
Si Eala nga three-time Junior Grand Slam champion ang magaatubang sa world No.
25 nga si Jelena Ostapenko sang Latvia sa round of 64 pasado alas dose sa kaagahon, Marso 21.
Indi basta-basta ang kasumpong sang Pinay star bangud nakadaog ini anay sa 2017 French Open batok kay Simona Halep sang Romania.
Ini nga 27-anyos nga Latvian ang nagkampyon man sa 2024 US Open women’s doubles title kaupod sa isa pa ka player halin sa Ukraine.
No coach, no problem: 4 players sang Clippers, may tag-20 plus scores sa paglutos sa Cavs
Madamo ang nagbilib sa nahimo sang Los Angeles Clippers nga paglutos sa nagapanguna nga team sa Eastern Conference apisar nga wala ang ila coach kag mangin ang assistant sini.
Sa hampang batok sa Cleveland Cavaliers, apat sa players sang Clippers ang naka-skor sang masobra 20 puntos kag naghakwat sa team nga maangkon ang apat ka winning streak.
May 28 points kag 20 rebounds si Ivica Zubac; may 33 points si Kawhi Leonard; may 22 points kag nine assists si James Harden; samtang may 20 points naman si Bogdan Bogdanovic para sa 132-119 nga kadalag-an sang team.
Sa amo nga hampang, wala gihapon ang ila head coach nga si Tyronn Lue bangud sa paglala sang pagpalanakit sang iya likod, samtang wala man si assistant coach Jeff Van Gundy bangud sa family medical matter.
Ini na ang pang-apat nga sunod-sunod nga game nga wala ang head coach sang Clippers bangud sa back pain.
Ini naman ang naghatag sa Cleveland sang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga kalutusan matapos nakahimo sang NBA history sa ila franchise-record nga 16-game winning streak.
IOC executive board, nag-rekomendar nga ilakip ang boxing sa LA 2028 Olympics
Sang nagligad nga bulan, matandaan nga nag-grant man ang committee sang provisional recognition sa World Boxing nga isa ka daku nga tikang para dalayon nga malakip ang boxing sa sports events sa masunod nga Olympiada.
Suno kay IOC president Thomas Bach, kinahanglan pa nga ipaagi sa session sa Greece subong nga semana ang opisyal nga pag-apruba sini, apang suno sa iya, kampante siya nga makuha sang World Boxing ang approval.
Matandaan nga sa Paris 2024 Games, ang IOC ang nagpanguna sa boxing competition matapos ginkakasan na sang pagkilala ang International Boxing Association sang 2023 bangud napaslawan nga maghimo sang reporma sa governance and finance.
Popular ang boxing sa mga kumpetisyon sa Olympics, kag isa man ini sa mga sports nga naga-excel ang Pilipinas.
Sang 2024, duha ka Pinay boxers ang nagdala-pauli sang bronze medals halin sa Paris nga amo nanday Nesthy Petecio kag Aira Villegas.
Ikaduha na ini nga Olympic medal ni Petecio matapos nadag-an ang silver sa Japan sang 2021.
NBA: Thunder, ginlutos liwat ang Celtics, nag-abante na sa playoffs
Nag-abante na sa playoffs ang Oklahoma City Thunder matapos ginlutos ang defending champions nga Boston Celtics, 118-112.
Nanguna sa Thunder si Shai Gilgeous-Alexander nga may 34 kag si Chet Holmgren nga may 23 points kag 15 rebounds.
Gin-sweep man sang Oklahoma ang Celtics sa sini nga two-game season series matapos una ini nga ginhimo sang Enero 5 sa Oklahoma City.
Ini naman ang ila pang-17 nga daog sa ila nagligad nga 18 ka mga hampang.
Sa Boston, nangibabaw si Jayson Tatum nga may 33, si Al Horford nga may 18 points kag 10 rebounds, kag si Derrick White nga may 22.
Bisan pa nga nalutos ang Celtics sa kamot sang Thunder, nakahimo sila sang NBA history sa 3-point shooting.
Ang ila 36 ka 3-point attempts sa first half sang hampang amo ang bag-o nga record sa liga sa pinakadamo nga attempts sa tres sa first half.
Nagtapos sila nga may 20 for 63 — patas sa third most attempts sa bug-os nga maragtas sang liga.
Ginalantaw sang iban nga preview ang hampang sang OKC kag Celtics sang NBA finals subong nga 2025 bisan pa nga ang nagapanguna sa Eastern Conference amo ang Cleveland Cavaliers nga amo ang una nakasulod sa playoffs sang nagligad pa nga semana.#
Tennis: Alex Eala, todo-pagpanghanda na sa pag-compete sa Miami Open sa Florida, USA
Todo na ang preparasyon sang 19-anyos nga Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala kaangot sa iya pagsabak sa Miami Open main draw.
Isa siya sa pito ka mga players nga nahatagan sang wildcard sang Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) para sa nasambit nga prestihiyoso nga tennis event.
Magasugod ini sa Marso 18 sa Hard Rock Stadium sa Miami, Florida, USA.
128 ang kabug-usan nga players sa field, kag magasulod si Eala sa tournament bilang third seed sa wildcard entries.
Nagapang-140 ang nasambit nga two-time Asian Games bronze medalist sa world rankings.
Matandaan nga nalab-ot sini ang career-high ranking nga No.
Gina-uyatan man sini ang record bilang junior doubles champion sa Australian Open kag French Open kag isa man ka junior singles titlist sa US Open.
Graduate siya sang Rafael Nadal Academy nga nakahimo man sang pangalan sa Miami Open sang naka-abante ini sa second round sang amo man nga tournament sang nagligad nga tuig.
Obiena, maga-atubang sa ‘best of the best’ pole vaulters subong nga semana
Atubangon sang two-time Olympian nga si EJ Obiena ang makabig “best of the best” pole vaulters sa 2025 Mondo Classic sa Uppsala, Sweden subong nga semana.
Apisar indi na makasulod sa World Indoor Championship, magapasakop si Obiena sa sini nga tournament nga amo ang iya katapusan nga indoor event antes magliso ang atensyon sa outdoor season.
Lakip sa makasumpong sang Pinoy Olympians sa Sweden amo ang world no.
1 kag two-time Olympic champion nga si Mondo Duplantis nga nakaguba sang iya kaugalingon nga world record sang nalukso sini ang 6.27m sa World Athletics Indoor Tour silver meeting sa France sang nagligad nga bulan.
Yara man sa kumpetisyon ang mga nakasumpong ni Obiena sa 2024 Olympics nga sanday Paris Olympics silver medalist Sam Kendricks sang United States kag bronze winner Emmanouil Karalis sang Greece.
Tanan nga participants ang may average nga 5.80m sa ila personal ukon seasonal bests, amo man sa performances sa nagligad nga Olympics.
Pagkatapos sini, magatutok na si Obiena sa preparasyon sa outdoors para sa iya pag-compete sa tatlo ka dalagku nga events kaangay sang Asian Championships sa Gumi, South Korea sa May 21 to 31; World Outdoor Championships sa Tokyo, Japan sa Sept.
13 to 21; kag ang Southeast Asian Games sa Bangkok, Thailand sa Dec.
Nagapang-apat subong ang Pinoy pride sa world rankings kasunod sang injury nga iya naangkon nga rason kun ngaa temprano nga natapos ang iya 2024 season.
Trump, magapanguna sa task force nga magatutok sa preparasyon sa FIFA World Cup 2026
Ginpirmahan ni United States President Donald Trump ang executive order nga naga-establisar sang White House Task Force nga amo ang magatutok sa preparasyon sang pungsod sa pag-host sa prestiyoso nga FIFA World Cup sa 2026.
May magapungko man nga executive director apang wala pa nahingadlan kun sin-o ini.
Ini nga opisyal amo ang maga-oversee sang adlaw-adlaw nga operasyon.
Masobra walo ka milyon nga international visitors ang ginalantaw nga magaabot sa US para sa isa ka bulan nga tournament nga maga-umpisa sa Hunyo 2026.
Mangin host man sa hinampang ang Canada kag Mexico, mga pungsod kun sa diin may isyu subong ang United States bangud sa taripa nga ginalantaw magaresulta sa trade war kag economic downturn.
Sa 2026, yara sa 48 ka mga team ang magahampang sa 104 matches sa tatlo ka mga pungsod nga amo ang una nga tion sa maragtas nga tatlo ka mga nasyon ang maga-host.
Katapusan nga ginpatigayon ang FIFA World Cup sa Qatar sang Disyembre 2022 kun sa diin nangin kampyon ang Argentina sa pagpanguna ni Lionel Messi.
PBA: TNT, Gin Kings, magataksanay liwat sang pwersa sa finals
Natalana nga mag-atubangay ang TNT Tropang Giga kag ang Barangay Ginebra San Miguel sa championship round sang PBA Season 49 Commissioner’s Cup.
Ini ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga conference nga magasambuwa ang duha ka teams nga ginapangunahan nanday Coach Chot Reyes sa TNT kag Coach Tim Cone sa Ginebra.
Kagab-i sang ginlutos sang Gin Kings ang top seed nga NorthPort, 126-99, nga amo ang nagtakop sa ila nga best-of-seven semifinals sa lima gid lamang ka hampang sa Araneta Coliseum.
Nanguna sa kadalag-an sang team ang import nga si Justin Brownlee kag si Jamie Malonzo.
Naka-11 pts man si Troy Rosario apang nakaangkon sang right ankle injury sa third quarter kag wala na nakabalik.
Ini na ang 32nd overall finals appearance sang Ginebra kag pang-40 nga entry ni Cone sa title bout.
Ginatawag sang kadam-an ang championship round nga royal rematch nga kun sa diin magataksanday sanday Cone kag Reyes kag ang imports nga sanday Rondae Hollis-Jefferson kag Brownlee.
Ini ang gin-anunsyo ni Antique Provincial Administrator Atty.
Neri Duremdes kadungan sang pagtakop sang WVRAA 2026 sa Binirayan Gym, San Jose de Buenavista, Antique.
Nahibaluan nga personal man nga nagtambong sa kahiwatan si Passi City Mayor Atty.
Ramir Uytico, Regional Director sang Department of Education (DepEd) Region 6 kadungan sang closing ceremony, ginpasalamatan sini ang mga atleta, coaches, local government units kag mga Schools Division sa ila nangin papel sa madinalag-on nga WVRAA 2025.
Liwat nga ginpamatud-an sang Iloilo ang ila ikasarang sa hinampang matapos ginkilala bilang Champion sa Secondary Division kag Paragames.
Samtang, nagpangibabaw naman ang Negros Occidental sa Elementary Division.
NBA: Cavaliers, una nga team nga nakasulod sa playoffs subong nga season
Nangin labing-una nga team ang Cleveland Cavaliers nga nakasulod sa National Basketball Association (NBA) playoffs subong nga season.
Natabo ini matapos ang 112-107 nga kadalag-an sang Cavs batok sa Miami Heat nga amo ang opisyal nga naghatag sa team sang spot sa postseason sa ikatatlo nga sunod-sunod nga tuig.
Ini man ang makabig pinakamaayo nga performance sang franchise halin sang nakalab-ot sila sa finals sa apat ka sunod-sunod nga season sang yara pa sa ila si LeBron James sang 2015-2018.
Ang ila pagdaog batok sa Heat amo man ang ika-12 nga consecutive win subong nga season.
Nanguna sa Cleveland si Donovan Mitchell nga may 26 points kag si Darius Garland nga may 10 assists.
Matabo ang una nga round sang playoffs sa Abril 19.
Sa pihak nga bahin, 29-32 ang win-loss record sang Heat subong nga season kag nagapang-pito sa standings sa Eastern Conference.
Nag-ulan ang simpatiya sang fans para sa anay National Basketball Association (NBA) champion nga si Klay Thompson nga isa sa nabilin sa gamay nga paglaum sang Dallas Mavericks subong nga season.
Nag-sulod si Thompson sa Mavs agud nga mabuligan sanday Kyrie Irving kag Luka Doncic nga makabawi na kuntani subong nga tuig, kag mabulsa ang NBA Championship matapos nagkabos sila kag nalutos sa kamot sang Boston Celtics sang nagligad nga tuig.
Apang sa isa ka makakilibot nga hitabo, gin-trade sang Mavs si Doncic sa Los Angeles Lakers, kag subong nga semana, nagsuprer naman si Irving sang injury kag indi na makabalik sa bilog nga season.
Mangin ang anay Lakers star nga si Anthony Davis ang nagasuprer man subong sang injury kaupod sa iban pa nga Mavs players nga sanday Daniel Gafford kag Dereck Lively II.
Dugang pa sa injury ni Irving amo si Jaden Hardy nga nakaangkon man sang sprained ankle sa 122-98 loss sang Dallas batok sa Sacramento Kings.
Nahibaluan nga sang summer sang 2024 sang natapos ang 13 ka tuig ni Klay sa Golden State Warriors matapos ang apat ka kampyonato kaupod sa franchise.
Wala sini ginpirmahan ang gin-report nga kontrata nga gintanyag sang Lakers agud kuntani maupdan si LeBron James.
Subong nga season, may average si Klay nga 13.8 points.
32-30 subong ang team kag pang-10 sa Western Conference.
Players sang Iloilo kag Negros sa elementary football match sa WVRAA 2025, nag-wrestling sa field
Padayon pa nga ginaimbestigaran sang mga opisyal sang Western Visayas Regional Athletics Association Meet 2025 nga ginapatigayon sa Antique ang natabo nga ginamo sa field sa football match sa elementary boys.
Ang match ang sa tunga sang Iloilo kag Negros.
Makit-an sa video nga samtang nagaagaway sa pagsipa sang bola ang duha ka players, hinali lang nga nangin tensyonado ini kun sa diin didto na nagtapungulay ang duha.
Madasig naman nga nagtambag ang iban nga players.
Sa amo nga hampang, daug ang Iloilo kontra sa Negros sa score nga 2-0.
Sa video, nagasuksok sang puti nga football uniform ang Negros samtang orange naman ang Iloilo.
Gin-anunsyo ni Filipino pole vaulter EJ Obiena nga indi ini makahampang sa 2025 World Athletics Indoor Championships, apang ginsiguro nga yara ini sa maayo nga kondisyon.
Sa baylo, maga-focus ang two-time Olympian sa outdoor season kun sa diin itiglawas sini ang Pilipinas sa pila ka high-profile competitions.
Ang 29-anyos nga si Obiena, nga yara subong sa ikaapat nga pwesto sa world ranking, ang magabalik sa hampang sa Marso 13 sa Mondo Classic sa Uppsala, Sweden.
Ang World Indoor Championships naman ang natalana sa Marso 21-23 sa Nanjing, China.
Pahayag niya, apisar ma tiempo pa agud mag-qualify para sa World Indoor Championships, wala naman ugaling sang kompetisyon nga nabilin kun sa diin siya mahimo nga makapartisipar.
Ulihi nga naghampang si EJ sang Pebrero 16 sa Toruń, Poland.
NBA: Doncic, LeBron, nanguna sa pagdaog sang Lakers vs Clippers
Nagtingob-pwersa liwat sanday Luka Doncic kag LeBron James agud nga mapadaog ang Los Angeles Lakers batok sa nangayaw nga sanday Kawhi Leonard kag Los Angeles Clippers.
29 pts, six rebounds, kag nine assists ang nahimo ni Doncic samtang may 17 pts naman kag nine assists si James.
Daku man nga bulig sa team ang rookie nga si Dalton Knecht nga may 19 pts.
May anum na ka sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an ang Lakers apisar wala ang ila starters nga sanday Rui Hachimura kag Austin Reaves bangud sa injury.
Si Doncic nga nag-abot lamang sa Lakers paagi sa blockbuster trade antes ang deadline ang naka-skor na sang at least 20 pts sang apat ka beses sa lima ka nagligad nga mga hampang.
Pangaduha subong ang Lakers sa Western Conference nga may 38 ka daog kag 21 ka kalutusan, samtang nagapanguna naman ang Oklahoma City Thunder nga may 49 wins kag 11 losses.
Pila ka coach sang Team Iloilo, gindayaw ang pasilidad sang Antique bangud sa katinlo kag katawhay sa pagdumala sa WVRAA Meet 2025
Gindayaw sang pila ka coach sang Team Iloilo ang pasilidad sang Antique bangud sa katinlo kag katawhay sa pagdumala sang Western Visayas Regional Athletic Association (WVRAA) Meet 2025.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Coach Japeth Buenalatrona, sang Football Secondary Boys -Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga daw sila lang natak-an nga magkaon sa tagsa ka serbe sang mga kalan-on.
Suno kay Buenalatrona, may mga venues lang nga medyo malayo para sa mga atleta apang provided man ang transportasyon.
Sa pihak sini, ginakalipay niya nga wala sang traffic sa lugar kon sa diin, madasig sila makaabot sa playing venue.
Kaangot diri, nakuha sang Iloilo ang duha ka gold medal sa Track and field sa nagapadayon nga Western Visayas Regional Athletic Association (WVRAA) Meet 2025.
Si Labrador ang tumandok sang Dumangas, Iloilo.
Samtang ang ikaduha naman nga gold medal ang nakuha ni Robbie Aguilar sang Dingle, Iloilo nga may record 6.74 m sa Long Jump sa Secondary boys.
Si Aguilar ang tumandok sang Dingle, Iloilo
Anthony Edwards, anum ka beses na nga namultahan subong nga season
Ginmultahan na naman sang National Basketball Association (NBA) ang 23-anyos nga star guard sang Minnesota Timberwolves nga si Anthony Edwards.
$35,000 ukon P2.03-million ang gindagdag nga penalidad sa iya matapos wala gilayon nagguwa sa court sang ginpahalin ini sa hampang kag ginhaboy pa sini ang bola sa stands.
Ini na ang iya ika-anum nga multa subong nga season.
Kun sumahon, nagdangat na sa $320,000 ukon P18.54-million ang penalty sini sa liga subong gid lamang nga season nga nagalakip man sa foul sini nga lenggwahe sa media interviews kag ang ginakabig “bastos” nga gestures samtang yara sa court.
Ang latest penalty sang three-time All-Star guard ang nag-ugat sa ikaduha sini nga technical foul sa hampang batok sa Los Angeles Lakers sang nagligad nga semana kag ginpahalin sang singko minutos na lang ang nabilin sa third quarter.
Bangud sa amo man nga foul, awtomatiko siya nga gin-suspend sa hampang batok sa Utah Jazz kun sa diin nalutos man ang Wolves.
Amo man ini ang iya ika-16 na nga technical foul subong nga season.
Base sa patakaran, sa kada duha ka dugang nga technical fouls, magasaka man ang iya nga suspension sa isa pa ka game.
Gin-ako man ni Minnesota Coach Chris Finch nga gin-istorya naman sang team si Edwards nga dapat nga kaayuhon sini ang panimuon sini sa court.
Sang nagligad nga bulan, nauna na si Edwards sa pagpromisa nga indi na ini mag-angkon sang dugang nga technical fouls.
WVRAA Meet 2025 sa Antique, opisyal na nga nagsugod
Opisyal na nga nagsugod ang Western Visayas Regional Athletic Association (WVRAA) Meet 2025 sa Antique.
Magasambuwa ang 2,970 ka mga atleta nga naghalin sa Aklan, Antique, Capiz, Guimaras, Iloilo, kag Negros Occidental.
Nagbukas ang kahiwatan paagi sa pagpatigayon sang Opening Ceremony sa Binirayan Sports Complex sa San Jose, Antique subong nga adlaw.
Pasakopan man sang masobra 2,000 ka mga coaches kag manunudlo ang kahiwatan.
Magalawig sugod Marso 3, 2025 tubtob Marso 7, 2025 ang WVRAA Meet.
Opening ceremony sang WVRAA Meet 2025 sa Antique, subong na nga adlaw
Patigayunon karon sa hapon sa sa probinsya sang Antique ang opening ceremony sang Western Visayas Regional Athletic Association (WVRAA) Meet 2025.
Opisyal nga magabukas ang regional sports meet paagi sa parada.
Ginalauman man nga masobra sa 5,300 ka delegasyon halin sa Aklan, Antique, Capiz, Guimaras, Iloilo, kag Negros Occidental ang magatipon para sa daku nga programa.
Antes ini nga programa, ginpatigayon man ang solidarity meeting sa Binirayan Gymnasium, San Jose, Antique nga gintambungan sang coaches kag technical officials agud nga mapahibalo ang final instructions sa pagsugod sang event.
Ang tanan nga 18 ka mga banwa sa Antique ang gin-tap sang Provincial Government sa diin tanan nga district supervisors ang ginbutang sa 7 ka mga billeting schools nga tiniran sang mga delegates halin sa nagkalain-lain nga probinsya.
Nagapatigayon man ang monitoring kag inspection ang Provincial kag Municipal Health Office sa billeting areas.
Nahibaluan nga sang nagligad nga tuig, ginpatigayon ang regional sports meet sa Bacolod City kag Negros Occidental kun sa diin nakuha sang Iloilo ang kampyonato.
Sang amo nga tion, gintiglawas sang masobra 800 delegates ang Iloilo kag nakuha ang championship titles sa tanan nga lebel nga ginalakipan sang Elementary, Secondary, Paragames, kag Demo Sports categories.
PBA: Jayson Castro, indi na makabalik subong nga season matapos nakaangkon sang knee injury
Indi na makabalik si Jayson Castro sa nabilin nga bahin sang season matapos nakaangkon sang injury sa iya nga tuhod sa hampang sang TNT batok sa Rain or Shine sa PBA Commissioner’s Cup semifinals.
Suno kay TNT team manager Jojo Lastimosa, kinahanglan sang star guard ang 10-12 ka bulan nga pahuway.
Matandaan nga sang manugtapos na ang hampang, ginpaguwa sa court ang 38-anyos nga veteran gamit ang stretcher kag gindala sa ospital.
Kinahanglan man ang adjustments sa Tropang Giga nga subong may 2-0 lead sa best-of-seven series sa semis.
Sa 93-91 win sang Tropang Giga sang Biyernes, nagtapos si Castro nga may 13 pts, 5 rebounds, kag 5 assists.
Sa Game 1 naman, naangkon sini ang team-high nga 24 pts.
Sa Governors’ Cup sang nagligad, siya man ang ginhingadlan nga Finals Most Valuable Player apisar sang iya edad.
Subong nga adlaw ang Game 3 sa Araneta Coliseum kun sa diin tinguhaan sang TNT nga makuha ang 3-0 lead agud mas makapalapit sa finals.
Hernani Escullar Jr., spokesperson sang Department of Education Region VI, iya ginpahayag nga ang Schools Division of Antique ang mangin host sa subong nga Western Visayas Regional Athletic Association Meet.
Suno kay Escullar, may mga athlete kag coaches naman nga nag-abot na sa Antique kon sa diin, may patigayunon nga pagsinapol sa Marso agud matumod ang mga venue, scheduling, kag ma-assess ang mga atleta sa amo nga hinampang.
Samtang, sa Marso 2, 2025 sa hapon, pagahiwaton ang parade sa Binirayan Sports Complex.
Magalawig halin Marso 3 tubtob 7, 2025 ang competition proper kag sa pinakaulihi nga adlaw naman hiwaton ang awarding ceremony.
Ginpahayag man sini nga 80% sang venue sang hinampang ang yara sa San Jose, Antique.
Nagpadulong man ang katapo sang DEPED sa lugar agud nga masekyar ang kuryente kag tubig nga isa sa nagapanguna nga kinahanglanon.
Handa naman ang medication sang talatapan agud nga magbulig sa mga atleta nga posible mag-angkon sang health emergency problem.
Nahibaluan nga yara 2,970 ka mga atleta kag masobra 2,000 ka mga coaches kag manunudlo ang magapartisipar sa kahiwatan.
Boxing, daku ang tyansa nga malakip sa 2028 Olympics
Daku ang tyansa nga malakip liwat ang boxing sa listahan sang sports sa Los Angeles Olympics sa 2028.
Ini matapos naghatag na ang International Olympic Committee (IOC) sang provisional recognition sa World Boxing, isa ka organisasyon nga ginlunsar sang 2023 kag may yara sang 78 ka mga miyembro sa lima ka mga kontinente.
Nalakip sa mga pungsod nga sa idalom sang World Boxing amo ang United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Australia kag Brazil.
Suno sa Olympic body, nalab-ot sang World Boxing ang pila ka nagapanguna nga criteria rason nga ginhatagan ini sang provisional recognition.
Madumduman nga naalang-alang ang paglakip sang boksing sa masunod nga Olympiada bangud ginkakasan sang IOC sang recognition ang International Boxing Association (IBA) bangud napaslawan nga magbag-o sa pagdumala, may isyu man sa finance amo man sa ethics.
Magluwas sa sini nga isyu, nagsumpakilay man ang Olympic body kag ang federation sang nagligad nga Olympics bangud sa partisipasyon sang duha ka mga babaye nga boksidor nga sanday Imane Khelif sang Algeria kag Lin Yu-ting sang Taiwan.
Gin-ban sila sang IBA sa 2023 World Championships kasunod sang chromosome test kag gin-cite ang ineligibility issues, apang gintugutan naman sila sang IOC nga mag-compete sa Paris kag pareho man nga nagdaog sang gold medals.
Kasunod sini nga mga isyu, ginduso sa national boxing federations nga maghimo sang bag-o nga global boxing body kag nagpaandam nga kun indi ini matigayon, wala sang boksing nga makit-an sa Olympics sa 2028.
Kun dalayon nga maaprubahan para sa Olympics, maayo nga balita ini para sa Pilipinas bangud halin sa boxing team ang sunod-sunod nga medalya nga nakuha sang pungsod sa magkasunod nga edisyon sang Olympiada sa Japan kag sa France.
Nalakip ang Filipino favorite multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) games nga Mobile Legends: Bang Bang kag Honor of Kings nga i-feature sa 2026 Asian Games sa Aichi-Nagoya, Japan.
Gin-anunsyo sang Olympic Council of Asia ang 11 esports titles nga mangin event sa Games nga nagalakip sang duha ka hampang nga sikat sa mga Pinoy.
Nahibaluan nga ang Pilipinas ang ginbansagan bilang pinaka-successful nga pungsod sa MLBB, matapos nagdaug sang lima sa ulihi nga anom nga world championships kag nangin winningest nation sa Southeast Asian Games nga may tatlo ka straight gold medals.
Ang Esports una nga gin-feature sa Asian Games sang 2018 apang bilang demonstration sports lamang.
Ang Esports nahatagan sang full medal status sa 2023 edition sa China.
Tim Cone, Gilas Pilipinas, nagapadayon pa sa pag-adjust nga wala si Kai Sotto
Padayon nga tinguhaan sang Gilas Pilipinas nga maka-adjust nga wala ang presensya ni Kai Sotto ilabi na samtang nagapreparar para sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia sa Agusto.
Ginpahayag ini ni Coach Tim Cone matapos nalutos sa duha ka sunod-sunod nga hampang sa third and final window sang qualifiers, apang kuwalipikado man gihapon sa tournament proper.
Kahapon, sa rematch batok sa New Zealand, gintambakan sang Tall Blacks ang Gilas, 87-70.
Suno kay Cone, nadulaan sila sang isa ka key player sang nakaangkon sang injury si Sotto, kag isa ini sa mga bagay nga ila padalman samtang nga nagahinampot ang Asia Cup.
Nahibaluan nga sa lima ka hampang, apat ka beses nga nalutos ang Gilas halin sang wala nakaupod sa ila ang 7-foot-3 star.
Naangkon sini ang knee injury sa Japan B.
League sang Enero, nagpaidalom sa operasyon kag ginalauman nga magapahuway sa sulod sang anum ka bulan para sa full recovery.
Nalakip sa kalutusan sang Gilas amo ang duha ka friendly games sa Doha International Cup sa Qatar kag ang duha ka magkasunod nga hampang batok sa Taiwan kag New Zealand sa final window sang Asia Cup qualifiers nga amo ang naghigko sa ila 4-0 run.
Gin-ako man ni Cone nga sa baylo nga mabuligan sila sang ila friendly games sa Qatar antes ang qualifiers, wala ini nagpabor sa players.
Ang iban pa nga mga kuwalikado nga teams sa Asia Cup amo ang Australia, Korea, New Zealand, China, Japan, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Iran, Qatar, kag Lebanon.
NBA: Coach Popovich, indi na makabalik subong nga season matapos na-stroke —report
Indi na makabalik subong nga season ang all-time winningest coach sa NBA nga si Gregg Popovich kasunod sang stroke nga ginsuprer sini sang Nobyembre 2.
Base sa report sang ESPN, indi man klaro kun ano ang future para kay Popovich bilang head coach sang San Antonio Spurs.
Matandaan nga ginkumpirma sang team nga na-mild stroke ang 76-anyos nga coach matapos ang lima lamang ka hampang subong nga season.
Kasunod sang natabo sa iya sa Frost Bank Center, ginsiling pa anay sang team nga nagapaidalom ini sa rehabilitation kag ginalauman ang iya nga “full recovery.”
Siya ang pinakatigulang nga coach subong sa liga.
Siya man ang nagpanguna sa sa San Antonio halin pa sang 1996-97 season kag nakadaog na sang lima ka NBA championships.
Kasunod sa problema sa iya ikaayong lawas, gin-promote si Spurs assistant coach Mitch Johnson bilang interim head coach kag nakuha ang 22-27 record (as of press time) sa iya pagpanguna sa team.
Dugang man nga problema ang ginbatyag sang Spurs sang ginkumpirma nga indi naman makahampang sa nabilin nga season ang star big man nga Victor Wembanyama bangud sa blood clot sa tuo nga abaga.
Gilas Pilipinas, New Zealand, liwat nga magataksanay sang pwersa subong nga aga
Matakos liwat ang pwersa sang Gilas Pilipinas sa katapusan sini nga hampang sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers.
10:00 subong nga aga oras diri sa Pilipinas, atubangon sang Gilas para sa rematch ang New Zealand nga may kapareho nga 4-1 win-loss record.
Tyansa ini sang Gilas nga makabangon matapos gintambakan sang Chinese Taipei, 91-84, sang nagligad nga Huwebes sang gab-i nga amo ang naghatag sa national team sang una nga kalutusan subong nga qualifiers.
Bisan nga pareho na nga kuwalipikado ang Gilas kag New Zealand sa FIBA Asia Cup 2024 sa Saudi Arabia sa Agusto, ang resulta sang hampang subong nga aga amo ang magatumod kun sin-o sa ila ang mangin top-seeded.
Ang magapanguna sa Group B amo ang makakuha sang mas paborable nga draw sa tournament proper sa Jedah.
Sa ila una nga pag-atubangay sa second window sang qualifiers sang Nobyembre, matandaan nga nalutos sang Gilas ang Tall Blacks, 93-89, nga amo ang una nga kadalag-an sang Pilipinas batok sa New Zealand sa maragtas sang FIBA.
Lain ugaling ang mangin dalagan sang ball game sa rematch subong bangud wala si Kai Sotto nga naka-skor anay sang 19 points, 10 rebounds, 7 assists, 2 steals, kag 2 blocks para sa ila una nga hampang.
Sa hampang batok sa Taiwan sang nagligad, ginhakwat ni Justin Brownlee ang Pilipinas nga may 39 pts lakip ang 8-of-11 shooting sa three-point line apang ginkabos sa gihapon.
Preska naman ang Tall Blacks sa kadalag-an batok sa Hong Kong, 92-51.
NBA: 2024-25 season ni Wemby, temprano nga natapos bangud sa blood clot sa abaga
Ginabantayan ang mangin adjustments sang San Antonio Spurs subong nga season matapos nakumpirma nga indi na makahampang ang ila young superstar nga si Victor Wembanyama.
Sang damlag lang, ginpapag-on sang franchise ang ila nga roster sang nakuha si De’aron Fox halin sa Sacramento Kings sa isa ka blockbuster trade.
Ini nga point guard ang may average nga 21.6 points, 7.8 assists, kag 1.8 steals sang nag-upod sa San Antonio.
May star potential man ang rookie standout nga si Stephon Castle nga amo ang No.
Base sa kumpirmasyon sang Spurs, na-diagnose si Wembanyama nga may deep vein thrombosis nga isa ka porma sang blood clot sa iya tuo nga abaga.
Ang 21-anyos nga reigning Rookie of the Year ang may impresibo kuntani nga season kag nahingadlan nga All-Star sa labing-una nga tion sa iya karera.
Sang Nobyembre 2024, nalab-ot sini ang career-high nga 50 points batok sa Washington Wizards.
Bangud sadto, naplastar ang iya pangalan bilang fourth-youngest player sa NBA history nga nalab-ot ang amo nga achievement.
Antes ang injury, frontrunner man kuntani si Wemby para sa Defensive Player of the Year award, apang mangin ineligible na ini sa award bangud indi sini makumpleto ang gina-require nga 65 games.
FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers: Taiwan ginlutos ang Gilas, 39 pts ni Brownlee nausik
Naangkon sang Gilas Pilipinas ang una nga kapaslawan sa FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers inadlaw matapos ang duha ka asud-asud nga kalutusan nga naagyan sa friendly games.
Ginlutos sang Chinese Taipei ang Gilas, 91-84, sa ila home court sa Taipei Heping Basketball Gymnasium sa Taiwan sa imbukada nga hampang sa third and final window sang qualifiers, Pebrero 20.
Maragtason ini nga kadalag-an para sa Taiwan bangud ini ang una nga tion halin sang 2013 Asian Cup nga napierde nila ang Pilipinas.
Na-usik ang 39 points, 8 assists, kag 6 rebounds nga nahimo ni Justin Brownlee sa kamot sang kasumpong nga ginapangunahan sang ila naturalized big man nga si Brandon Gilbeck kag Mohammad Gadiaga.
Balos man ini para sa Taiwanese matapos ginkamasaan sila sang Gilas paagi sa 53-puntos nga abanse sa first window sang ila una nga pag-atubangay isa ka tuig na ang nagligad.
Sa bahin sang Filipinos, nagsunod kay Brownlee sa puntos sanday Dwight Ramos nga may 15 points kag AJ Edu nga may 10 points.
Bangud napanas na ang undefeated record sang Gilas, patas na ini subong sa New Zealand nga may 4-1 win-loss record sa Group B.
Magakit-anay ang New Zealand kag Pilipinas para sa rematch 10:00 sa aga sa Domingi, oras sa Pilipinas.
PBA player Fran Yu, nagdepensa matapos gin-akusahan nga nanakit sang barangay official
Nagdepensa ang PBA player nga si Fran Yu matapos gin-akusahan nga nagpanakit ini sang isa ka barangay kagawad sa Barangay 350, Sta.
Cruz, Manila bangud sa problema sa parking.
Ginkumpirma sang NorthPort Batang Pier guard nga nag-park ini sang iya motorsiklo sa atubang sang isa ka fast food restaurant sang ginsaway ini sang isa ka barangay official.
Suno kay Yu, natingala siya nga may nagsaway sa iya bangud nga masami man siya nagabilin sang iya motor sa area.
Didto na natabo ang komprontahanay kun sa diin makit-an sa cctv footage nga nahulog sa kanal ang tanod kag gin-alegar nga gintiklod ini sang basketball player.
Nagpalapit man ang isa ka barangay kagawad kag nag-abot ang amay ni Yu kag may natabo liwat nga komosyon.
Nag-angkon ang kagawad sang mga injuries matapos ang insidente kag desidido nga magpasaka sang kaso batok kay Yu.
Sa bahin naman sang PBA player,nanindugan ini nga indi siya ang nag-umpisa sang away kag plano man nga magpasaka sang kaso batok sa kagawad.
Obiena, may gold medal sa Poland, apang wala pa naka-qualify sa World Indoor Championships
Wala nagapakampante ang Pinoy pole vaulter nga si EJ Obiena apisar nakabalik ini sa porma kag nabulsa ang gold medal sa tournament sa Poland.
Tubtub sa Marso 9 ang qualifying period para sa World Indoor Championships sa Nanjing, China gani ginalagas sang Pinoy Olympian ang tiyempo.
Kinahanglan sini lapawan ang qualifying mark nga 5.85 meters, kag pananglitan maglampas na sa amo nga petsa kag indi pa niya ini mahimo, indi sigurado ang 29-anyos nga pole vaulter kun may tyansa pa siya nga makasulod.
Naubos ang tatlo sini ka attempts sa 5.85-meters sa Poland apang wala ini nagmadinalag-on.
Nahibaluan nga sang Septyembre 1, 2024 pa nag-umpisa sang qualification period sa World Indoor Championships, apang nakaangkon si Obiena sang spine injury sang amo nga tion, kag nakabalik lamang sa kumpetisyon sang Enero subong na nga tuig.
Sa ORLEN Copernicus Cup sa Torun, Poland kahapon, nagpangibabaw si EJ matapos nakalukso sang 5.80-meters nga amo man ang iya best performance subong nga season.
Nagbawi ini matapos napaslawan nga madepensahan ang iya titulo kag nagpang-pito lamang sa ISTAF Indoor Dusseldorf sa Germany kag nagpang-siyam sa Meeting Hauts-de-France Pas-de-Calais Tropee sa France.
Pangaduha naman niya ini nga gold medal subong nga 2025 kag pangatlo nga podium finish matapos nagpanguna sa Meeting Metz Moselle Athlelor sa France kag nagpangaduha sa International Springer-Meeting Cottbus sa Germany.
Gilas Pilipinas, gintambakan sang Egypt sang 31-puntos nga abanse sa friendly game
Gintambakan sang Egypt sang 31-puntos nga abanse ang Gilas Pilipinas sa katapusan nga friendly game sa Doha International Cup sa Qatar.
Pasado alas tres sang kaagahon oras sa Pilipinas sang nagtakop ang hampang sa skor nga 86-55.
Apisar pang-34 ang Pilipinas sa world ranking, wala nasarangan sang national team ang mas dalagku kag mas mataas nga players kag ang outside shooting sang world no.
Naka-skor si Justin Brownlee sang 18 puntos, may lima ka rebounds, kag isa ka assist antes ini temprano nga nagguwa sa fourth quarter.
Magluwas sa iya, wala na sang player halin sa Gilas nga nakalab-ot sa double figures.
Ini ang pangaduha nga kalutusan sang Gilas matapos ginpierde man sang Lebanon kahapon sang kaagahon, 75-54.
Ang isahanon nga nadag-an sang Pilipinas amo ang imbukada nga hampang batok sa host country, 74-71.
Magapauli na ang Gilas diri sa pungsod, mapahuway sang gamay, antes mag-atubang sa Taiwan sa Pebrero 20 kag New Zealand sa Pebrero 23 sa third and final window sang 2025 FIBA Asia Cup qualifiers.
Warmup event na lamang ini nga qualifiers bangud kuwalipikado na ang Gilas sa FIBA Asia Cup sa Agusto kasunod sang undefeated record sini sa nauna nga duha ka windows.#
Nakapauli na sa Pilipinas ang men’s national curling team matapos ang maragtason nga kadalag-an sang nakuha sini ang gold medal sa 9th Asian Winter Games sa Harbin, China.
Ini nga team nga pang-51 sa world ranking ang ginabug-usan nanday Marc Pfister, Christian Haller, Enrico Pfister, Alan Frei, kag Benjo Delarmente.
Nahimo nila ang upset batok sa tournament favorite kag world.
no 7 nga Republic of Korea sa score nga 5-3 sa gold medal game sang men’s tournament sa Harbin Pingfang Curling Arena sang Biyernes.
Ini ang naghatag sa Pilipinas sang labing-una nga bulawan nga medalya sa Asian Winter Games.
Ang Pilipinas man ang labing-una nga Southeast Asian country nga nakakuha sang pinakamataas nga podium finish sa amo nga quadrennial multi-sports showcase.
May tyansa man nga makakuha ini sang mas daku nga insentibo bangud sila ang nagbutang sang gamay kag tropical country sa mapa sang event kun sa diin tradisyonal nga gina-dominar sang mga nasyon nga may winter seasons.
Natalana nga magpasakop ang national team sa Pan-Continental Curling Championships Division A sa Nobyembre para nga maka-qualify sa World Cup sa labing-una nga tion.#
21-point beatdown: Gilas Pilipinas, ginlutos sang Lebanon sa Doha International Cup
Naangkon sang Gilas Pilipinas ang mapait nga kapaslawan sa kamot sang Lebanon sa ikaduha sini nga hampang sa Doha International Cup sa Qatar.
Nagtakop ang hampang sa skor nga 75-54 sa Qatar University Sports & Events Complex ala una subong nga kaagahon oras sa Pilipinas.
Nanguna sa 21-puntos nga abanse sang kasumpong sanday Gerard Hadidian kag Jad Khalil nga may tag-18 puntos.
Sa pihak nga bahin, duha lamang sa players sang Gilas ang nakalab-ot sa double figures.
Naka-21 puntos si Justin Brownlee, 11 rebounds, kag 1 assist, samtang may 10 points naman si Calvin Oftana lakip ang duha sini ka three-pointers.
Nalutos ang Lebanon sa Egypt sa imbukada nila nga hampang, kag gin-pierde naman sang Pilipinas ang Qatar sa first game —buot silingon, pareho sila nga may 1-1 win-loss record.
1:30 buwas sa kaagahon, atubangon sang Gilas ang Egypt nga amo ang katapusan nila nga game.
Ini nga mga hampang ang kabahin sang preparasyon sang Gilas sa final window sang FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers subong nga Pebrero.
Bisan kuwalipikado na ini sa tournament bangud sa matinlo nga record, ginagamit man ni Coach Tim Cone nga kahigayunan ang friendly matches agud nga mapreparahan ang mas dalagku nga kasumpong sa FIBA Asia Cup sa Agusto.
Gilas Pilipinas, ginpanas ang 11 pts nga abanse, ginlutos ang Qatar sa Doha International Cup
Ginlutos sang Gilas Pilipinas ang Qatar, 74-71, sa imbukada nga hampang sa serye sang friendly matches sa Doha International Cup.
Nanguna sanday Dwight Ramos, Justin Brownlee, kag big man nga si AJ Edu agud nga makalagas sa fourth quarter kag mapanas ang 11-point deficit.
Sa ikatatlo nga quarter, 60-51 ang skor pabor sa hosts apang nagbawi ang Philippine national team sa 23-11 nga abanse sa final period agud makuha ang kadalag-an pasado alas tres kaina sang kaagahon oras sa Pilipinas.
Antes sini nga hampang, madamo ang naham-ot sa gin-share ni Calvin Oftana nga video kun sa diin makit-an ang pila sa Gilas players nga na-stuck sa elevator sa Doha apang nabuligan man sang technician.
Alas 11:00 karon sa gab-i oras sa Pilipinas, magabalik pa ang Gilas sa amo gihapon nga court sa QU Sports & Events Complex sa Doha agud atubangon ang Lebanon.
Gilas Pilipinas, nag-abot na sa Qatar para sa last window sang 2025 FIBA Asia Cup qualifiers
Nag-abot na ang Gilas Pilipinas sa Doha, Qatar para sa ikaapat kag katapusan nga window sang 2025 FIBA Asia Cup qualifiers.
Nagtabo man sa Qatar si Chris Newsome halin sa Chinese Taipei kag Carl Tamayo halin sa South Korea.
Atubangon sang Gilas sa friendly games ang national team sang host country sa Pebrero 14, Lebanon sa Pebrero 15, kag Egypt sa Pebrero 16.
Pagkatapos sang training camp sa Qatar, ang Gilas magabiyahe padulong sa Chinese Taipei sa Pebrero 20 kag sa New Zealand sa Pebrero 23 para sa katapusan nga bahin sang qualifiers.
Naka-qualify na ang Gilas para sa FIBA Asia Cup nga pagahiwaton sa Agosto sa Saudi Arabia, pero padayon gihapon sila nga magapanikasog sa qualifiers bangod makabulig ini sa pagpalig-on sang ila kapasidad bilang team.
Antes sila nagbiyahe padulong sa Qatar, naghanas na nga daan ang Gilas sa Inspire Sports Academy sa Laguna.
Dwight Ramos kag AJ Edu, balik sa Pilipinas agud mag-upod sa Gilas sa preparasyon para sa Asia Cup Qualifiers
Nagbalik na sa pungsod sanday Dwight Ramos kag AJ Edu agud updan ang Gilas Pilipinas sa preparasyon sini para sa 2025 FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers February window.
Halin sa ila masako nga schedule sa Japan B.League, nag-upod sanday Ramos kag Edu sa Nationals para sa madasig nga training sa Inspire Sports Academy sa Laguna antes sila maglupad sa Qatar para sa serye sang tuneup games.
Magluwas kanday Ramos kag Edu, nag-upod man sa training sanday Scottie Thompson, Calvin Oftana, kag Jamie Malonzo.
Ang iban naman nga Gilas’ players ang magabyahe diretso sa Qatar agud mag-upod sa ila didto sa Pebrero 13.
Magatinir didto ang Nationals humalin sa 13 tubtob sa 16th agud atubangon nila ang Doha, Lebanon, kag Egypt, kag magalupad balik sa Pilipinas sa 17.
Sa gab-i man sang Pebrero 17, magalupad ang Gilas padulong sa Taipei para sa ila matchup batok sa Taiwan sa Pebrero 20, para sa ulihi nga window sang Qualifiers.
Ang Gilas, nga assured na sang ticket sa Saudi Asia Cup sa Agusto, ang magatapos sang ila assignments sa Pebrero 23 sa ginahulat- hulat nga rematch batok sa New Zealand.
PBA, nagaplano sa pagpatigayon sang exhibition games kaupod sa Japan B.League
Nagaplano ang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) nga magpatigayon sang exhibition games kaupod sa teams halin sa Japan B.League.
Ginalantaw nga mangin parte ini sang selebrasyon sang liga sang ika-50 nga anibersaryo subong nga tuig.
Suno kay PBA Commissioner Willie Marcial, nagapadayon ang ila nga pag-istoryahanay subong para sa sini nga plano ilabi na bangud pat-od nga dugukan ini sang basketball fans.
Pero ayaw pa munang ipa-sabi ng B.League.
May plano na, baka exhibition games,” suno kay Marcial.
Magluwas sa homegrown stars sa Japan, didto man nagahampang ang pila sa kilala nga Pinoy basketball players kag fan-favorites nga sanday Dwight Ramos, Kai Sotto, Ray Parks Jr., kag Kiefer Ravena.
FIRST GOLD IN 2025: EJ Obiena, nagpangibabaw sa tournament sa France
Nabulsa ni Ernest John “EJ” Obiena ang iya imbukada nga gold medal sa pole vault subong nga 2025 matapos nagpangibabaw sa Meeting Metz Moselle Athlelor sa Metz, France.
Nalukso sini ang 5.70 meters sa isa lamang ka attempt antes napaslawan sa 5.85m sa tatlo ka mga attempt.
Antes sini, ginlaktawan sang Pinoy Olympian ang 5.20 kag ang 5.35 meters, gin-clear ang 5.50-m sa isa lamang ka lukso, kag nag-pass liwat sa 5.60 meters.
Siya ang may best finish sa tournament kag ginsundan ni Menno Vloon nga may 5.70m outing man apang nagpangaduha lamang sa ranking via countback.
Lakip man sa pito nga nalutos ni Obiena amo ang Tokyo Olympic silver medalist nga si Christopher Nilsen nga nagpangatlo matapos ang 5.60m showing.
Ini ang una nga kadalag-an ni Obiena sa bag-o nga indoor season matapos nagpangaduha sa International Jump Meeting Cottbus sa Lausitz-Arena sa Germany sang Enero.
Balantayan man ang pagdepensa sang Filipino pride sa iya nga titulo sa ISTAF Indoor Tournament subong nga adlaw matapos sini na-clear ang 5.93 meters sang nagligad nga tuig.
PBA, magadangop sa NBI kaangot sa death threats nga nabaton ni RJ Abarrientos
Makig-angot ang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) sa National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) kasunod sang death threats nga nabaton sang Barangay Ginebra rookie nga si RJ Abarrientos.
Suno kay Commissioner Willie Marcial, magahulag ang liga kaupod ang NBI para nga ma-imbestigahan ang amo nga mga pamahog nga ginpadala kay Abarrientos kag sa iya nga partner paagi sa social media.
Lakip sa nabaton sini nga mensahe amo ang pamahog nga tiruhon siya.
Base sa nagpadala sang mensahe, nadulaan ini sang daku nga kantidad sang kuwarta bangud sa pusta matapos nga nalutos ang Ginebra sa skor nga 108-104 batok sa Meralco sa Game 2 sang quarterfinals.
Sang amo nga tion, nahatagan sang oportunidad ang 25-anyos nga star guard nga mapasulod kuntani ang kuatro puntos kag matas ang skor sang nagahingapos na ang hampang apang wala natigayon tubtub nga nagdaog ang Bolts.
Naka-istorya naman si Commissioner Marcial sa Ginebra team management kaangot sa amo nga isyu.
Matandaan nga si Abarrientos mismo ang nag-post sa death threats nga iya nabaton para sa ihibalo sang publiko kag naghingyo man nga i-report ang account.
Ginpaathag man sini nga nagahampang sila sang maayo, nangin trabaho na nila ini, apang parte gid sang basketball nga malutos.
LeBron James, pinakatigulang nga player sa NBA history nga naka-40 points sa hampang
Naghimo sang panibag-o nga record si LeBron James matapos ginkilala nga pinakatigulang nga player sa maragtas sang National Basketball Association (NBA) nga naka-skor sang 40-points sa isa lang ka hampang sa liga.
Nahimo ini sang 40-anyos nga Lakers superstar sang naka-poste sang season-high nga 42 points sa 120-112 nga kadalag-an sang Los Angeles batok sa Golden State Warriors.
Disyembre 30, 2024 sang nagtapak sa edad nga 40 si James apang ginalantaw nga madamo pa ini sang mahimo sa iya ika-22 nga season sa NBA.
Lapaw na ang nahimo ni James sa iya idolo nga si Michael Jordan nga amo ang isa nga NBA player nga naka-skor sang 40 points matapos ang iya 40th birthday.
Nahimo ini anay ni Jordan sa hampang batok sa Washington Wizards tatlo ka adlaw matapos ang kaadlawan niya sang Pebrero 2003.
Daku man ini nga record sa pangalan ni LeBron bangud siya man ang naga-uyat sang record bilang pinakabata nga player sa NBA history nga naka-skor sang 40 points sa isa ka hampang.
Nahimo niya ini sa edad nga 19-anyos sang 2004 sang nag-skor sang 41 points bilang rookie sa Cleveland Cavaliers batok sa New Jersey Nets.
Magluwas diri, ang nasambit nga Lakers great ang naga-uyat man sang 10 ka triple-doubles subong nga season nga nagahimo sa iya bilang ikaduha sa pinakatigulang nga player nga nakalab-ot sang amo nga record kasunod sang na-set ni Karl Malone sang 2003.#
NBA: Luka Doncic, posible makaupod sa Lakers sa hampang sa Domingo
Mahimo matabo sa weekend ang debut ni Luka Doncic sa Los Angeles Lakers.
Sang sini lang nga semana sang ginsapubliko ang blockbuster trade sa National Basketball Association (NBA) nga nagsaylo kay Doncic sa Lakers halin sa Mavericks, kabaylo kay Anthony Davis nga didto na subong sa Dallas.
Naka-upod na ang Slovenian superstar sa practice sang Lakers apang bangud sa iya gin-suprer nga calf injury, indi gihapon ini makaupod sa hampang batok sa Golden State Warriors 11:00 subong nga aga.
Apang suno kay coach JJ Redick, posible nga makahampang na ang anay NBA scoring champion batok sa Indiana Pacers 5:00 sang aga sa Domingo oras sa Pilipinas, ukon batok sa Utah Jazz 11:30 sang aga sa Martes oras gihapon sa Pilipinas.
Matandaan nga wala na naka-upod hampang si Luka sa Mavericks subong nga 2025 matapos ang naangkon nga injury sang Christmas Day.
Manny Pacquiao, mangin kabahin sang Korean athletic reality show nga ‘Physical: Asia’
Liwat nga igatiglawas ni Manny Pacquiao ang Pilipinas — indi sa boxing ring — kundi sa survival competition show sang Netflix nga “Physical: Asia” nga spinoff sang hit Korean reality series nga “Physical: 100.”
Ini amo ang ikatatlo nga season kun sa diin may 100 ka magapaindis-indis nga atleta, bodybuilders, celebrities, kag madamo nga iban pa.
Diri nga kumpetisyon mapamatud-an ang ila kusog, balance, agility, endurance, willpower, kag strategy.
Ang magadaog amo ang tagpalasakop nga may ideal human physique.
Sang 2023 kag 2024 gin-ere ang nauna nga duha ka seasons sini kun sa diin ang nadeklarar nga winners amo ang anay snowboarder kag CrossFit athlete nga si Woo Jin-yong kag CrossFit YouTuber nga si Amotti.
Gin-share man sang platform ang Filipino boxing legend kag iya asawa nga si Jinkee nga nag-abot na sa airport sa South Korea.
Si Pacquiao amo ang ginakabig nga “Pambansang Kamao” (national fist) kag ginakabig man nga isa sa legendary athletes sa Pilipinas.
Siya ang isahanon nga boksidor nga nangin eight-division world champion kag siya man ang oldest welterweight world champion sa edad nga 40 anyos.
Pormal siya nga nag-retiro sa boksing sang 2021.
NBA: Celtics, ginlutos ang Cavs sa ila ikatatlo nga pagkitaay subong nga season
Ginlutos sang reigning champion nga Boston Celtics ang Cleveland Cavaliers sa ila ikatatlo na nga pagkit-anay subong nga regular season sang National Basketball Association (NBA).
Nanguna si Jayson Tatum nga may 22 puntos sa 112-105 nga kadalag-an sang Celtics.
Ginbansagan ini nga heavyweight showdown bangud nagapangauna ang Cavaliers sa Eastern Conference samtang nagapangaduha naman sa current rankings ang Boston.
Lima sa players sang Celtics ang nakalab-ot sa double figures lakip na si Derrick White nga may 20 points lakip ang anum ka three-pointers, si Kristaps Porzingis nga may 19 points, kag si Jaylen Brown nga may 16.
Sa pihak nga bahin, na-usik naman ang 31 points nga ginbubo ni Donovan Mitchell para sa Cleveland.
Ini man ang nagtuldok sa four-game winning streak sang Cavs.
Sa tatlo ka beses nga nagkitaay sila subong nga season, duha ang nadag-an sang Celtics.
Sunod sila nga magakitaay sa Pebrero 28 sa Boston.
2 Pinoy mountaineers, sakaon ang Mount Everest sa Abril
Handom subong sang duha ka Filipino mountaineers nga sanday Elaine Jhon “Jeno” Panganiban kag Miguel Mapalad nga malab-ot ang putok-putokan sang pinakamataas nga bukid sa kalibutan,ang Mount Everest.
Natalana ang ila pagsaka sa Abril kun sa diin 18 ka tuig na ang nagligad humalin sang una nga nalab-ot ini sang isa ka Pinoy.
Ini nga kampanya ang pangunahan sang ila grupo,ang Philippine 14 Peaks Expedition Team.
Manaslu sa Nepal sang Oktubre, nagalaum ang team nga masaka ang kataason nga 8,849-meter nga Mount Everest.
Nagpabutyag ang mga ini nga magluwas nga gusto nila malab-ot ang pinakamataas nga parte sang bukid, luyag man nila maeksperyensyahan ang thrill sang pagbyahe kag ma-enjoy ang katahum sini.
Para sa 29-anyos nga si Panganiban, ang iya hilig sa mountain climbing ang nagsugod sang iya ang yara sa kolehiyo matapos nag-intra sa iya mga abyan para sa hiking trip.
Ang 42-anyos naman nga si Mapalad ang nagsugod sang iya mountain climbing journey sang 1999 sang nagtaklad ini sa Mt.
Cristobal sa Quezon para sa bible study outing trip sa ila simbahan.
Kamara, nag-OK na sa pagpalubong sang Pinoy sports heroes sa Libingan ng mga Bayani
Gin-aprubahan sang Kamara sa third and final reading ang hagna nga nagaduso nga ilubong sa Libingan ng mga Bayani ang ginakabig nga Pinoy sports heroes.
Sa plenary session, 196 ka mga mamalidha ang nagboto pabor sa House Bill 11229 ukon ang proposed “Commemoration of Filipino Sports Heroes Act.”
Sa idalom sang hagna, ang Filipino ‘sports heroes’ amo ang national athletes lakip na ang may yara sang disabilities nga naka-distinguish sang ila kaugalingon sa patag sang hinampang, may maayo nga paminatasan, kag may integridad.
Dala man diri ang mga may nadag-an nga medalya sa Olympics, Paralympic Games, ukon sa World Championship sa anuman nga professional competition nga sanctioned sang international governing bodies sang nagkalain-lain nga sports kag ginakilala sang Philippine Sports Commission kag Games and Amusement Board.
Lakip man diri ang Filipino athlete, coach, ukon trainer, nga yara sa Philippine Sports Hall of Fame.
Ang sports heroes dapat nga Filipino citizens by birth, apang nalakip man ang naturalized sa iban nga pungsod, apang naka-reacquire sang Philippine citizenship nga amo ang nagahimo sa ila bilang dual citizens.
Gintay-og sang Lakers kag Mavericks ang NBA world matapos gin-reporr nga nahitso na ang negosasyon para i-trade si Luka Doncic sa Los Angeles samtang isaylo naman si Anthony Davis sa Dallas.
Tumalagsahon ini nga trade nga wala ginahauman subong nga tuig ilabi na samtang nagapadayon ang All-NBA selections.
Magluwas sa pagbaylo sang duha ka players, makuha man sang Lakers sanday Maxi Kleber kag Markieff Morris, samtang batunon naman sang Mavericks si Max Christie kag ang first-round draft pick sa 2029.
Base sa reports, ang Mavs ang nagtanyag sa Lakers nga i-trade si Doncic, samtang nagapati naman ang Los Angeles nga ang five-time All Star player ang sarang mangin nawong sa ila nga franchise sa palaabuton.
Pananglitan mangin pormal na ang trade, makita si Doncic nga magahampang sa Los Angeles kaupod si LeBron James sa iya ika-22 na nga NBA season.
Pareho nga wala nakahampang subong sa ila teams sanday Doncic kag Davis bangud sa injuries.
Suno sa Mavs, isa ka bulan pa ang kinahanglan nga pahuway ni Doncic samtang sa masunod nga semana naman ang reevaluation kay Davis.
Nahibaluan nga may 28-19 record ang Lakers sa Western Conference samtang may 26-23 naman ang Mavs sa latest figures halin sa amo man nga conference sa liga.
EJ Obiena, ginahandaan na ang dugang nga mga kumpetisyon subong nga 2025
Puno sang kalipay ang Pinoy pole vault superstar nga si Ernest John “EJ” Obiena bangud wala na ini sang nabatyagan nga kasakit sa iya likod sang nagbalik ini sa international competition subong nga 2025.
Nagpangaduha si Obiena sa International Jump Meeting Cottbus sa Germany sang nagligad nga semana nga amo ang iya una nga medalya halin sang nakaangkon ang back injury nga amo ang nag-utod sang iya produktibo nga 2024 season.
Pahayag sang two-time Olympian, na-clear na ang iya injury sang Oktubre kag amat-amat siya nga nagabalik sa kasakuon sang sports lakip na ang wala-tuo nga training.
Positibo man siya sa iya mga plano subong nga tuig lakip ang pagpasakop sa World Indoor Championships sa China sa Marso; Asian Championships sa Korea sa Mayo; sa World Outdoor Championship sa Japan sa Septyembre; kag sa Southeast Asian Games sa Thailand sa Disyembre kun sa diin natalana sini nga depensahan ang iya titulo.
Matandaan nga antes pa man ang Paris Olympics, may ginabatas na ini nga injury apang nag-compete gihapon kag nagpang-apat sa kumpetisyon.
2 nga ranking, nag-us-os ini subong sa pang-apat nga pwesto.
Nag-abante na sa semifinals ang team sang Pilipinas nga Strong Group Athletics (SGA) sa 34th Dubai International Basketball Championship.
Nahimo ini ni Coach Charles Tiu kag sang team matapos ang 100-63 nga kadalag-an batok sa Sharjah SC sang United Arab Emirates.
Nakabulig sa team sanday anay NBA standouts Demarcus Cousins kag Chris McCullough agud nga magpabilin nga undefeated sa tournament.
Duha ka daog na lang ang kinahanglan sang SGA antes makuha ang kampyonato nga isa ka redemption matapos nga nangin runner up lamang sang nagligad nga tuig.
Subong nga adlaw ang schedule para sa semifinals.#
EJ Obiena, nagbalik na sa international competion, nagpangaduha sa Germany meet
Nakuha ni Ernest John “EJ” Obiena ang silver medal sa iya labing-una nga pagbalik sa international pole vault competition halin sang nagpahuway sang 2024 bangud sa back injury.
Nagpasakop ang Pinoy Olympian sa International Springer-Meeting Cottbus sa Germany kun sa diin na-clear sini ang 5.65-meters.
Mahapos sini nga na-clear ang 5.40, 5.55, kag 5.65 bars antes nagpaiway sa 5.70 meters kag nagtinguha pa kuntani sa 5.75 meters apang napaslawan sang tatlo ka beses.
Nagpangaduha si EJ sa American kag Paris Olympics silver medalist nga si Sam Kendricks nga isahanon nga nakalukso sang 5.75 meters.
Madumduman nga Agusto sang gin-anunsyo sang Pinoy athlete nga temprano sini nga tapuson ang 2024 season bangud sa injury nga nagakinahanglan gid sang pahuway.
Bangud sadto, wala ini nakaupod sa iban pa nga mga kumpetisyon kag wala man nadayon ang Philippine International Pole Vault Challenge nga iya kuntani ginplano para sa Septyembre.
Ang amo man nga injury ang ginbatas sini samtang nagapreparar sa Paris Olympics, kun sa diin nagkabos ini nga makakuha sang medalya matapos nagpang-apat sang gin-rank na ang players via countback.
Nag-us-os man ang Asian record holder sa rank number 4 halin sa pangaduha nga pwesto sa world rankings nga iya gina-uyatan antes ang Olympiada.
Kevin Quiambao, maga-upod sa training sang Gilas; Kai Sotto, kinahanglan operahan
Kumpirmado ang attendance ni Kevin Quiambao sa Doha, Qatar sa masunod nga bulan samtang naga-preparar ang Gilas Pilipinas sa third and final window sang FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers kag FIBA Asia Cup.
Matandaan nga nagsuprer ini sang right ankle injury sa iya imbukada nga hampang sa Korean Basketball League sini nga Enero apang nakabalik naman sa game sang Martes.
Suno kay Gilas head coach Tim Cone, nag-update ang two-time UAAP Most Valuable Player nga 100% nga handa ini sa byahe sa Doha para sa ila nga training camp para handaan ang hampang kontra sa Chinese Taipei kag New Zealand.
Indi naman maka-upod si Japeth Aguilar sa training camp bangud sa personal nga rason apang mahampang gihapon ini sa Pebrero sa Taiwan.
Mabuhinan naman ang pwersa sang Gilas bangud kumpirmado nga indi makahampang sa FIBA Asia Cup ang big man sang national team nga si Kai Sotto bangud sa ACL injury nga naangkon sa hampang sa Japan nga nagakinahanglan sang siyam ka bulan nga pagpahuway.
Ginalauman nga sa una nga semana sang Pebrero magapaidalom ini sa surgery.
Nahibaluan nga antes pa man ang final window, kuwalipikado na ang Pilipinas sa FIBA Asia Cup sa Saudi Arabia sa Agusto, apang magasulod gihapon ini sa training camp sa Qatar kag magahampang batok sa Chinese Taipei kag New Zealand sa qualifiers bilang preparasyon sa aktwal nga tournament.
Petecio kag Villegas, nagahanda na para sa SEA Games sa Thailand
Matapos ang maayo nga performance sa Paris Olympics, target subong nanday Nesthy Petecio kag Aira Villegas ang dugang nga mga medalya sa Thailand sa South East Asian games sa Disyembre.
Sanday Petecio kag Villegas ang pareho nga nakakuha sang bronze medals sa women’s 57kg kag 50kg divisions.
Si Villegas ang wala pa nakakuha sang gold medal sa regional biennial meet, apang nadala pauli ang bronze sa 2019 edition in Manila.
Si Petecio naman ang defending gold medalist sa iya division sa Cambodia sang nagligad nga tuig matapos ginlutos ang Indonesian nga si Ratna Sari Devi sa gold medal match.
Nangibabaw man si Petecio sang 2019 apang nag- settle naman sa bronze pagkasunod nga edition sa Vietnam.
Apisar masako para sa SEA Games, ang 2028 Los Angeles Olympics sa gihapon ang ila ginatutukan bangud indi sila mag-untat tubtob wala sang may makuha nga bulawan sa Olympiada.
Carlos, Eldrew Yulo, pareho nga ginpasidunggan sa PSA Awards Night
Agaw-atensyon ang mag-utod nga Yulo nga sanday Carlos kag Karl Eldrew sa ginapatigayon nga awards night sang Philippine Sportswriters Association (PSA) kagab-i, Enero 28.
Si Carlos Edriel ukon si Caloy amo ang ginhingadlan nga Athlete of the Year kasunod sang maragtason nga duha ka bulawan nga medalya nga iya nabulsa gikan sa Paris Olympics sang Agusto 2024.
Ang pagpangibabaw ni Caloy sa men’s floor exercise kag vault amo ang naghatag sang pinasahi nga dungog sa Pilipinas sa ika-100 nga tuig sini nga pagpasakop sa Olympiada.
Ang manghod naman sini nga si Karl Eldrew ang nakabaton sang special citation in gymnastics particular ang Tony Siddayao Award.
Isa ka rising gymnast kag Palarong Pambansa multi-medalist si Eldrew nga sa bata nga edad nagahimo naman sang kaugalingon nga pangalan sa sports.
Sang Disyembre, naubos sini ang walo tanan ka gold medals sa Hong Kong Artistic Gymnastics International Invitational Championships.
Gindominar sang 16-anyos nga Yulo ang junior division sang nangibabaw ini sa individual all-around, floor exercise, vault, parallel bars, horizontal bar, pommel horse, kag still rings, kag lakip man sa nakakuha sang gold sa team all-around event.
Madamo ang nagdayaw sa duha ilabi na sa ila paghaksanay sa awards night kag pag-upod sa interviews apisar sang kontrobersiya anay nga nagputos sa ila pamilya nga ginkaulamiran sang iloy nga si Angelica Yulo kag nobya ni Caloy nga si Chloe.
Sanday Carlos kag Karl Eldrew ang ginalantaw man nga dungan nga maga-tiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Olympics sa 2028 nga pagahiwaton sa Los Angeles, California, USA.#
Nadepensahan sang world number one kag Italian tennis player nga si Jannik Sinner ang iya titulo sa Australian Open.
Nakuha sang 23-anyos nga player ang kadalag-an matapos ginlutos si world number 2 Alexander Zverev sang Germany sa straight sets, 6-3, 7-6(4), 6-3 sa Rod Laver Arena.
Siya ang una nga Italian nga nakadaog sang tatlo ka Grand Slams.
Bangud sini, nabutang naman ang pangalan ni Sinner sa linya nanday Andre Agassi, Roger Federer kag Novak Djokovic bilang male players nga madinalag-on nga nakadepensa sang title sa Australian Open subong nga siglo.
Ini na ang iya 19th title sa iya karera kag napalawig pa ang iya winning streak sa 21.
Sang 2024, ginlutos sini sa five sets si Daniil Medvedev sang Russia nga amo ang nangin lyabe sa iya una nga Grand Slam.
Nabulsa sang Italian great ang kampyonato apisar sang doping case nga iya ginapangatubang matapos duha ka beses nga nagpositibo sa traces sang steroid clostebol sang nagligad nga tuig.
Novak Djokovic, nag-withdraw sa Australian Open bangud sa leg injury
Napaslawan ang Serbian superstar nga si Novak Djokovic nga makuha ang ika-25 na kuntani nga Grand Slam title matapos nakaangkon sang injury sa semifinal match sang Australian Open.
Nagahampang si Djokovic batok sa German kag world No.
2 nga si Alexander Zverev sa Melbourne sang na-angkon sini ang injury sa wala pa nga paa.
Sa una pa lamang, nakitaan na sang kabudlay ang hulag sang 24-time Grand Slam champion tubtub nga natapos ang first set paagi sa tiebreaker nga nalutos ini, 7-6.
Naglawig ang una nga set sang isa ka oras kag 21 ka minutos.
Sunod nga nagkamustahanay ang duha ka player, nagguwa si Djokovic, nagapang-insulto ang iban nga mga tawo, samtang indi naman makapati si Zverev sa resulta samtang nagapungko ini sa bench.
Mismo si Zverev man ang ang nagsapubliko nga indi mapadayon sang Serbian tennis legend ang match bangud sa injury kag nagpahanumdom man sa fans nga indi ini dapat paghabuyan sang malain nga mga tinaga bangud sa iya nga sitwasyon.
Antes nag-abanse sa semifinals, nag-agi si Djokovic sa rematch sang finals sa Paris Olympics matapos sini naatubang sa four-set epic match ang Spanish star nga si Carlos Alcaraz.
Sang amo nga quarterfinal match, may yara na nga daan sang medical timeout para sa Serb bangud sa upper leg injury.
Apisar 37-anyos na ang edad, wala ginadula sang Serbian ang posibilidad nga magbalik pa gid sa masunod nga tuig para sa grand slam tournament.
Ang pag-withdraw ni Djokovic nagkahulugan nga awtomatiko na nga nag-abanse si Zverev sa iya una nga career finals sa Australian Open kun sa diin maatubang sini si world number 1 Jannik Sinner.
Maga-atubang ang Gilas Pilipinas sa tatlo ka national teams bilang preparasyon sa third and final window sang FIBA 2025 Asia Cup qualifiers sa Pebrero.
Ang makasumpong sang Gilas amo ang Qatar, Lebanon kag Egypt sa 2nd Doha Invitational Cup nga amo ang four-nation friendly tournament nga gin-organisa sang Qatar Basketball Federation.
Matabo ini sa Qatar University sa Pebrero 14-16.
Una nga makasumpong sang Gilas ang host country sa imbukada sang tournament, pagasundan sang Lebanon, kag Egypt sa katapusan nga adlaw.
Sa Pebrero 13 magahalin si Coach Tim Cone kag ang national team kaupod si Troy Rosario nga amo ang pinakaulihi nga gindugang sa lineup matapos nakaangkon sang injuries sanday Kai Sotto kag Kevin Quiambao.
Yara man ang naturalized player nga si Ange Kouame bangud mangin absent sa training camp ang veteran big man nga si Japeth Aguilar.
Lauman nga magaupod man sa duha ang mainstays sang team nga sanday Justin Brownlee, Scottie Thompson, June Mar Fajardo, CJ Perez, Dwight Ramos, Carl Tamayo, Chris Newsome, Calvin Oftana, Mason Amos, kag ang nagbalik nga sanday AJ Edu kag Jamie Malonzo.
Ini nga friendly games ang magapreparar sa Pilipinas sa posible pagbalos sang Chinese Taipei kag New Zealand sa ila pagkitaay sa masunod nga bulan.
Nahibaluan nga undefeated ang Gilas, 4-0, sa Group B kag antes pa man ang final window, pormal na ini nga naka-qualify para sa FIBA Asia Cup 2025 sa Saudi Arabia.#
Marcos, gin-veto ang hagna nga nagaduso sa pagtukod sang Philippine National Games
ang ginduso nga hagna nga nagatuyo sa pagtukod kag pagpasangkad sang Philippine National Games (PNG).
Santo sa veto message sang presidente nga ginpadala sa Kongreso, nagapati siya nga ang pag-establisar sang amo nga national sports program ang magahatag sang madamo nga benepisyo sa pungsod partikular na ang pag-establisar sang team sang national athletes.
Apang dugang niya, paagi sa ginduso nga hagna, maga-duplicate ang paninguha kag ang pondo para sa national sports program sa baylo nga makahatag sang dugang nga benepisyo.
Ginplastar sini ang Republic Act 10588 ukon ang Palarong Pambansa Act of 2013 nga nagatuyo sa pag-promote sang physical education kag paghaylo sa sports programs kag mga kumpetisyon lakip na ang paghanas para sa international events samtang nga ginatun-an ang disiplina, kaalam, kag importansya sang teamwork.
Dugang ni Marcos, ang probisyon sang hagna nga magtuko sang PNG Board bilang isa ka policy-making and coordinating body bilang preparasyon sa PNG ang naga-anggid na sa Section 8 sang RA 10588 nga amo naman ang nagatukod sa Palarong Pambansa Board bilang lead policy-making and coordinating body para sa preparasyon sa Palarong Pambansa.
Bangud sini nga mga rason suno kay Marcos, nagapati siya nga kun may tukuron pa gid nga PNG, may matabo nga functional duplication, leadership confusion, kag inefficiency.
8468, titled An Act Expanding and Institutionalizing PNG and Appropriating Funds Therefore,” kabahin pa sang iya nga veto message.
Strong Group Athletics, umpisahan na ang ila hampang sa Dubai International Basketball Tournament sa Biyernes
Natalana na nga magpakita sang abilidad ang Strong Group Athletics sa nagahilapit nga 34th Dubai International Basketball Tournament nga magasugod sa masunod nga mga inadlaw subong nga semana.
Suno kay coach Charles Tiu, mas confident siya subong sa ipakita nga hampang sang team batok sa top international squads sa annual Dubai tournament.
Sang nagligad nga edisyon, silver medal ang nakuha sang Pilipinas batok sa Al-Riyad.
Suno kay Tiu, may salig siya sa mga players sang Pilipinas subong nga ginabug-usan sang mga bataon kag beterano— nga ginapangunahan sang four-time NBA All-Star Demarcus Cousins.
Natalana ang hampang umpisa Enero 24 tubtob Pebrero 2.
Buksan sang SGA ang kampanya sa Biyernes batok sa Dubai NT sa las-onse sang gab-i, oras sa Pilipinas.
NBA: Nikola Jokic, may 18 na ka triple-doubles subong nga season
Naglab-ot na sa 18 ka triple double ang nahimo sang Nuggets superstar nga si Nikola Jokic subong nga regular season sa NBA.
Ang pinakaulihi amo ang iya nga 20 points, 14 rebounds kag 10 assists kadungan sang pagpangayaw sang Denver Nuggets kag paglutos sa Orlando Magic 113-100.
Si Jokic amo subong ang nagapanguna sa liga sa triple-doubles, kag ang nagapangaduha amo si LeBron James nga may walo ka triple-doubles para sa Los Angeles Lakers.
Sa hampang kontra sa Magic, wala na siya nagsulod sa fourth quarter apang bastante ang puntos sang iya mga kaupdanan agud mapadaog ang Denver.
Nagdugang si Christian Braun sang 20 points, si Jamal Murray nga may 19 points, kag Michael Porter Jr.
Short-handed naman ang Orlando sa amo nga game bangud wala si Jalen Suggs (back injury), Gary Harris (hamstring), Franz Wagner (reconditioning) kag Goga Bitadze (concussion protocol).
Pilipinas, nalutos sa Australia apang kuwalipikado gihapon sa Women’s Futsal Asian Cup
Maga-abante ang Pilipinas sa 2025 Women’s Futsal Asian Cup sa China apisar pa nga nalutos ini sa katapusan sini nga kasumpong sa qualifiers.
Ginpierde sang Australia ang Pilipinas, 2-1, sa hampang sa Yunusobod Sport Complex sa Tashkent, Uzbekistan, apang nag-qualify gihapon ang pungsod sa Asian Cup bangud nagtapos ini bilang best third-placed team sa tournament.
Nakaangkon ang Pilipinas sang duha ka daog, isa ka draw, kag isa ka kalutusan para makuha ang 7 points sa Group C.
Ang Australia naman ang isahanon nga undefeated squad sa grupo ukon may apat ka daog sa apat man ka mga hampang.
Kun nag-draw kuntani ang resulta sang hampang, na-secure sang Pilipinas ang second seed sa Group C.
Nagtupa ini sa ikatatlo nga pwesto bangud sa superior goal difference sa iban pa nga third-placed teams.
Antes gin-reshuffle ang national program sang nagligad nga tuig, wala gid nakaagi-daog ang Pilipinas, apang nakabangon ini subong isa ka tuig antes ang pag-host sang Pilipinas sang FIFA Women’s Futsal World Cup.
Una na nga ginlutos sang Filipinas ang Kuwait kag Turkmenistan kag naka-secure sang draw sa host nation nga Uzbekistan sa masandukot nga away.
Matabo ang Asian Cup sa China sa Mayo 7-18 para matumod ang magatiglawas sang Asya sa global showdown.
Antes sini, bilang host, kuwalipikado na nga daan ang Pilipinas sa World Cup apang nag-intra gihapon sa Asian Cup bilang buildup para sa mas daku nga hampang.
NBA: Jimmy Butler, nakabalik na sa paghampang sa Heat matapos ang 7-game suspension
Nalutos ang Miami Heat sa kamot sang Denver Nuggets, 133-113, kadungan sang pagbalik ni Jimmy Butler gikan sa suspension sa pito ka mga hampang.
Naka-skor ang 35-anyos nga forward sang 18 points sa 33 minutos sini nga paghampang para sa Heat sa Florida.
Antes ang aktwal nga hampang batok kay Nikola Jokic, ginsapubliko ni Butler ang iya pagbalik paagi lamang sa duha ka tinaga nga “I’m back.”
Nauna na nga ginhambal ni Butler nga indi siya malipayon subong nga regular season, pila ka beses na nga naghaboy sang kritisismo, kag nag-request sang trade.
Enero 13 sang ginsuspend siya sang Heat bangud sa rason nga “conduct detrimental to the team.”
Bisan pa na-suspend, ginsulit sini nga luyag sini nga ma-trade sa iban nga team, apang sa iya pagbalik sa hampang, wala man sang tinimok-timok kag wala gid namensyonar ni Miami coach Erik Spoelstra ang pangalan sang Miami superstar.
Kun balikan ang isyu, nasapubliko ang tension sa tunga ni Butler kag Miami sang nakakas sa NBA playoffs ang Miami bangud sa Boston Celtics.
Wala nakahampang si Butler sa five-game series bangud sa knee injury, kag gin-alegar nga nagpanginit ang team president nga si Pat Riley sang nagsiling si Butler nga nalutos kuntani nila ang Celtics kun nakahampang siya para sa team.
May nagaalegar man nga gusto ni Butler sang contract extension nga duha ka tuig nga $113 million max extension, apang wala sang plano ang Heat, rason nga diskuntento man ang six-time All-Star kag nagahingyo na sang trade.
May average si Butler nga 17.6 points, 5.4 rebounds kag 4.6 assists sa 23 games kag ini na ang pang-anum niya nga season sa Miami.
Sunod nga atubangon sang Miami ang San Antonio Spurs 4:00 buwas sa aga, oras sa Pilipinas.
NBA: Thunder nakabalos sa Cavs, Gilgeous-Alexander nag-score sang 40 pts
Patas na ang record sang Oklahoma City Thunder kag Cleveland Cavaliers nga may tag-34 ka daog kag anum ka kalutusan subong nga regular season sa National Basketball Association (NBA).
Ini matapos nakabalos ang Thunder sa pagpanguna ni Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, 134-114, sa latest game sa Paycom Center sa Oklahoma City.
40 points ang napaulan ni Gilgeous-Alexander nga amo ang pang-18 nga 40-point game sa iya karera.
Magluwas diri, nakahimo man ang 26-anyos nga point guard sang eight assists kag three rebounds.
Nangin daku man nga bulig sa opensa si Luguentz Dort nga may yara man sang 22 points, kag si Jalen Williams nga nagdugang sang 19 points.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpanguna sa Cavs si Darius Garland nga may 20 points, samtang otso puntos lamang ang na-produce ni Donovan Mitchell.
Ang Oklahoma City ang nagapangibabaw subong sa Western Conference, samtang nagapanguna naman sa Eastern Conference ang Cleveland apang may yara sang identical records.
Antes sini nga hampang, ginlutos sang Cavs ang Thunder, 129-122, sang nagligad nga Huwebes sa Ohio.
Ginalantaw sang kadam-an nga basketball analysts nga ang duha ka nasambit nga teams ang maga-atubangay sa masandukot nga finals sa Hunyo.
Hidilyn Diaz, ilakip naman sa PSA Hall of Fame
Kilalahon ang Pinay weightlifter nga si Hidilyn Diaz sa Philippine Sportswriters Association (PSA) Hall of Fame kadungan sang tuigan nga Awards Night sa Enero 27.
Ihatag kay Diaz ang pasidungog kasunod ang iya silver medal sa 2016 Rio Olympics kag ang maragtason nga Olympic gold medal sa Tokyo Olympics nga nadag-an sini sang 2021.
Ang bulawan nga medalya nga iya nakuha amo ang labing-una nga bulawan nga medalya sang Pilipinas sa Olympiada antes ini nasundan sang duha ka gold medals ni Carlos Yulo sa gymnastics sang 2024.
Magluwas sa iya kadalag-an sa Summer Games, nadag-an ni Diaz ang nagkalain-lain nga international tournaments nga amo ang nagbutang sa iya sa posisyon nga nagakabagay sa Hall of Fame.
Nahibaluan nga apat ka beses man nga nahingadlan si Diaz bilang PSA Athlete of the Year (2016, 2018, 2021, 2022).
Bangud sini nga bag-o nga pagkilala, makaupod na sini sa Hall of Fame sanday eight-division boxing champ Manny Pacquiao, world-class bowlers Paeng Nepomuceno kag Bong Coo, chess grandmaster Eugene Torre, pool icon Efren ‘Bata’ Reyes, kag late FIDE president Florencio Campomanes, kag ang late trackster Lydia De Vega.
Troy Rosario, maga-upod sa Gilas sa Fiba Asia Cup qualifiers
Ginkumpirma ni Coach Tim Cone nga maga-upod si Troy Rosario sa Gilas Pilipinas para sa third window sang 2025 Fiba Asia Cup Qualifiers.
Ang 32-anyos nga 6-foot-7 shooting ace sang Barangay Ginebra amo ang igabulos ni Cone matapos nakaangkon sang injuries sanday Kai Sotto kag Kevin Quiambao kag wala pa sang kasiguruhan kun ano kadugay ang masarangan ni Jamie Malonzo sa paghampang.
Maga-umpisa na sa training ang national team sa Doha, Qatar subong nga bulan agud handaan ang third kag final window sang Asian Cup qualifiers kun sa diin atubangon sang Gilas ang Chinese Taipei (Feb.
Nahibaluan nga sa nagapadayon nga PBA Commissioner’s Cup, daku man nga bagay ang nahimo ni Rosario sa depensa kag opensa sang Gin Kings apisar bag-o pa lamang ini sa team.
Antes nakabalik sa Gilas pool subong nga 2025, may pila man ini ka eksperyensya sa nationals lakip ang 2021 Southeast Asian Games kun sa diin nakuha ang silver medal.
Bisan ano pa ang resulta sang hampang sa final window, nahibaluan nga kuwalipikado na ang Gilas sa Fiba Asia Cup 2025 nga natalana sa Agusto sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia matapos nangin undefeated sa duha ka nauna nga windows.
Nagbalik sa Pilipinas si Mikey Williams.
Apang indi agud maghampang para sa PBA kaupod ang TNT Tropang GIGA kundi para sa Strong Group Athletics sa nagahilapit nga 34th Dubai International Basketball Championship.
Ang 33-anyos nga combo guard, nga naghalin sa Los Angeles, California, ang nag-abot sa Pilipinas kahapon.
Ini ang magapa- reunite kanday Williams kag Strong Group head coach Charles Tiu nga nag-updanay sang 2019 William Jones Cup kag sa 2020 edition sang Dubai games.
Pabaskugon ni Williams ang team nga ginabug-usan nanday Rhenz Abando, Dave Ildefonso, Jason Brickman, Angelo Kouame, Andray Blatche, Allen Liwag, Tony Ynot, kag Justine Sanchez.
Yara man sanday international stars Demarcus Cousins, Malachi Richardson, kag Terry Larrier, agud buligan ang Strong Group nga makabalos matapos ang buzzer-beating nga kalutusan batok sa Al-Riyadi sa Finals.
Hampang sang Pilipinas vs Uzbekistan sa Futsal Asian Cup qualifiers, nagtakop sa draw
Nagtakop sa draw, 3-3, ang hampang sang Philippine women’s team batok sa home team sang Uzbekistan sa 2025 Women’s Futsal Asian Cup Qualifiers.
59 nga Filipinas ang 1-1-0 win-draw-loss card sa Group C samtang ang pihak nga team naman nga pang-18 sa world rankings ang may record nga 0-1-0.
Kuatro minutos pa lang sa pagsugod sang hampang, naka-skor na si Isabella Flanigan para sa Philippine team kag napasundan ni Katrina Guillou sa ika-16 nga minuto sang first half.
Dos minutos na lang ang nabilin sa hampang sang napalagyuhan sang beterana nga si Lyudmila Karachik ang tatlo ka defenders kag nahatagan ang host country sang 3-2 nga lead.
Apang wala diri nagpasugot ang Filipinas kag nagbalos paagi sa wala nga tiil ni Judy Connolly nga nakaluwas man sa defense sang Uzbekistan rason nga nag-draw sa 3-3 sang nagahingapos na ang oras.
Matandaan nga sa una nga hampang sang Filipinas sang Sabado, ginlutos sini ang Kuwait, 4-1.
Buwas, atubangon sang team ang Turkmenistan nga una na nalubong sa 6-1 blowout batok sa Australia.
Kevin Quiambao, nakaangkon sang injury sa imbukada nga hampang sa Korean Basketball League
Nakaangkon sang injury ang Pinoy basketball star nga si Kevin Quiambao sa iya imbukada nga hampang sa Goyang Sono Skygunners sa idalom sang Korean Basketball League.
Sais puntos lamang kag isa ka rebound ang nahimo ni KQ sa iya halos siyete minutos nga pag-upod sa game sang Goyang Sono antes ini nagguwa kag wala na nagbalik.
Nalutos ang ila team, 84-57, batok sa Seoul SK Knights.
Natabo ang injury sang nagtuyo si Quiambao nga magpasulod sang tres apang natapakan sang iya tuo nga tiil ang iya kasumpong antes sila nagligid nga duha sa court.
Bangud sa ila ika-lima nga sunod-sunod na nga kalutusan, nag-us-os pa sa 9-20 ang record sang Goyang.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagsaka naman sa 22-6 ang record sang kasumpong nga Seoul nga may Pinoy import man nga si Juan Gomez De Liaño.
Nahibaluan nga former superstar sang De La Salle University si KQ, nangin two-time UAAP Most Valuable Player, kag kabahin sang ginpili ni Coach Tim Cone nga mangin parte sang Gilas Pilipinas.
LA wildfires: 10 Olympic medals nga nadag-an paagi sa tubig, nadula tanan bangud sa kalayo
Naubos-sunog ang 10 ka Olympic medals sang American swimmer nga si Gary Hall Jr.
bangud sa lapnagon nga wildfires sa Los Angeles County sa California.
Sang nagalamon na ang kalayo, nakasarang nga nakapalagyo ang three-time Olympian kaupod sa iya ido nga si Puddles.
nga na-diagnose nga may Type 1 sang amo nga balatian sang 1999.
Bangud sini, lakip sa iya ginhingagaw-dala amo ang insulin, ang painting sang iya Lolo, kag ang isa ka religious artifact.
Ginplano pa sini nga dalaganon pabalik ang iya mga Olympic medal apang nawad-an na ini sang tiyempo bangud sa madasig nga paglapta sang kalayo.
Lakip sa nadula sa iya amo ang duha ka silver nga mga medalya kag isa ka bronze nga nadag-an sang 1968, 1972 kag 1976 Olympics.
Nakalangoy siya para sa Team USA sang 1996, 2000 kag 2004 Olympics kun sa diin kabug-usan nga five golds, three silvers kag two bronze ang iya nadag-an sa Olympiada.
Nahibaluan nga ang malapit na sa 31,000 acres ukon yara sa 12,500 ka ektarya ang nalamon sang Palisades fire.
Mabudlay ang pagpalong sang kalayo bangud sa mabaskog nga hangin.
Yara na sa 10 ang patay sa sunog malapit na sa 10,000 ka mga estruktura ang nagkalahalitan suno sa otoridad apang ginalantaw nga mas madugangan pa ini nga numero.#
Eumir Marcial, ginkasuhan sang iya asawa bangud sa ginaalegar nga pagpangluib
Nangin matunog liwat ang pangalan sang Filipino Olympian nga si Eumir Marcial indi bangud sa pagdaog sa boksing kundi bangud sa akusasyon sang iya asawa nga nagluib ini sa ila pag-asawahay kag nangin abusado.
Sa ginpaguwa nga official statement ni Princess Marcial, ginsiling sini nga dal-on sini sa korte ang iya akusasyon kag ipasa man ang mga ebidensya sa ginaalegar nga “love affair” sang iya bana.
Ginsaysay sini nga nadakpan mismo niya sa akto si Eumir kag iya ‘other woman’ nga nagahingalan kay Jessa Santos sa isa ka condominium sa Pasay City sang Oktubre 2024 ukon pagkatapos mismo sang Paris Olympics.
Sang amo nga tion, si Eumir kag ang mistress ang na-detain gid sa sulod sang lima ka adlaw apang ginhilway ang boksidor sang nagpirma si Princess sang affidavit of desistance nga i-withdraw ang complaint sa paglaom nga makaayo pa ang ila pag-asawahay.
Apang suno sa asawa, apisar sang tyansa nga iya ginhatag, naglala ang sitwasyon bangud nagsaylo pa gid si Eumir kag iya mistress sa Zamboanga kag didto may ginpatindog nga balay gamit ang kuwarta nga sinuptan nanday Eumir kag Princess.
Ginbuyagyag man ni Princess nga may mga pamahog nga ginbuy-an si Eumir kaangay sang pahayag nga wala sang makuha si Princess pananglitan magseparar sila nga duha.
Dugang pa sang asawa, gin-utod na sini ang tanan nga sources sang komunikasyon sa tunga nila matapos ang trauma, manipulasyon, emotional stress, physical abuse, kag psychological torment nga iya ginsusprer.
Wala na gindetalye ni Princess ang iban pa nga natabo bangud ipasaka man ini nga reklamo sa korte, apang ginplastar niya nga ginsapubliko niya ang hitabo para sa iya safety amo man sang iya pamilya kag mga testigo batok sa Pinoy boxer.
Isa man si Princess ka former amateur boxing national champion, anak ni former Cagayan de Oro boxing trainer kag international referee Reynaldo Galarpe, kag siya man ang nagatindog nga brand manager ni Eumir.
2021 sang ginkasal sila nga duha nga amo man ang tuig kun san-o nadag-an ni Marcial ang bronze medal sa Tokyo Olympics.
Antes sila nagpasakal, siyam ka tuig na sila nga magkarelasyon.
Sang nalutos si Eumir sa imbukada nga hampang sini sa men’s light heavyweight category sa Paris Games sang 2024, matandaan nga updanay pa sila ni Princess kag gindayaw pa ang ila relasyon bangud sa pagpaumpaw sang asawa samtang emosyonal ang boksidor.
Nagsulod sa professional boxing si Eumir sang 2020 kag subong naga-uyat sang 5-0 win-loss record.
Tricycle driver, ginatudlo nga suspek sa pagbuno-patay kay SEA Games champion Mervin Guarte
Natumod na sang mga pulis ang suspek sa pagbuno-patay sa Southeast Asian Games gold medalist kag long-time member sang national team nga si Mervin Guarte sa Calapan City, Oriental Mindoro.
Roden Fulache, gina-asikaso na nila ang ipasaka nga criminal complaint nga murder batok sa sa 31-anyos nga tricycle driver nga amo ang ginasuspetsahan nga nagbuno kay Guarte sa dughan samtang nagakatulog ini.
Nakapangayo pa sang bulig ang atleta kag nadala pa ini sa pinakamalapit nga ospital apang napatay gid sa edad nga 32-anyos bangud sa daku nga pilas.
May nakuha nga CCTV footage kun sa diin nakit-an nga nagsulod ang suspek sa balay kun sa diin nagtulog si Guarte.
Tres minutos ang nakaligad, nagguwa ini nga daw wala lang sang natabo, apang sang yara na ini sa unhan, nagdalagan ini.
Ginapatihan nga may dumot ang suspek kay Guarte.
May nagaguwa man nga inisyal nga impormasyon nga childhood friend man niya ini.
Indi na ini subong makit-an sa Calapan City apang padayon nga ginapangita sang mga pulis mangin sa kaiping nga mga banwa.
Nagpanawagan naman si Philippine Olympic Committee (POC) president Abraham “Bambol” Tolentino sa mga pulis nga dasigon pa gid ang imbestigasyon agud mahatagan sang hustisya ang kamatayon sang atleta.
Nahibaluan nga assigned si Guarte sa Fernando Air Base sa Lipa City, Batangas bilang isa man ka Airman First Class sang Philippine Air Force.
Sampaw-sampaw nga SEA Games medals ang nadag-an sini bilang kabahin sang track and field kag obstacle course racing national teams kaupod kanday EJ Obiena.
Lakip sa yara sa iya nga koleksyon amo ang gold medals sa men’s 5km event sa 2019 Southeast Asian Games kag men’s team relay sa 2023 regional biennial sporting meet.
Kumpirmado na nga indi maka-upod si Kai Sotto sa duha ka mga hampang sang Gilas Pilipinas sa third and final window sang Fiba Asia Cup Qualifiers sa masunod nga bulan.
Sa Pebrero 20, atubangon sang national team ang Chinese Taipei samtang sa Pebrero 23 naman makasambuwa sini ang New Zealand.
Apang bangud sa anterior cruciate ligament ukon ACL injury nga naangkon sini sa hampang batok sa SeaHorses Mikawa sa Japan B.League sang Domingo, binulan pa ang kinahanglan ni Kai nga pahuway.
Gintawag ini sang 7-foot-3 center nga amo ang pinakamadulom nga parte sang iya karera sa basketball.
Ang 22-anyos nga player amo ang isa sa ginakabig nga rason nga undefeated ang Gilas Pilipinas ni Coach Tim Cone, 4-0, sa qualifiers nga may average nga 15.5 points, 12.5 rebounds, 3.8 assists, kag 2.3 blocks.
Madasig naman ang mga mensahe sang iban nga Gilas stars kaangay kanday Justin Brownlee, AJ Edu, kag Japeth Aguilar para mapalig-on si Kai.
God bless you, Kai,” mensahe naman ni Aguilar.
Mga atleta, nagpalab-ot sang pagpakig-unong kasunod sang kamatayon ni Mervin Guarte
Nagpalab-ot sang ila pagpakig-unong ang pila ka mga Filipino nga atleta kasunod sang kamatayon sang SEA Games gold medalist nga si Mervin Guarte matapos ini ginbuno sa Calapan City, Oriental Mindoro.
Isa sa naghatag sang iya tribute amo si EJ Obiena kun sa diin suno sa pole vault champion, isa ka trahedya ang natabo sa iya ginakabig nga kuya.
Madumduman nga sanday Obiena kag Guarte ang pareho nga naghakot sang medalya sa track and field sa diin si EJ ang nakatipon sang tatlo ka gold medals kag isa ka silver sa SEA Games samtang si Guarte naman ang may duha ka silver sa men’s 800m kag 1500m events sa 2011 edition sa Jakarta, Indonesia.
Sunod nga nagsaylo si Guarte sa obstacle course racing, kun sa diin nagdaug ini sang pila ka gold medals.
Sang 2019, nangibabaw ini sa men’s 5km sang obstacle course racing antes siya kag tatlo ka iban pa ang nagkuha sang gold sa men’s team relay sa Cambodia SEA Games sang nagligad nga tuig.
Isa man sa nagpalab-ot sang pagpakig-unong amo ang marathon runner nga si Mary Joy Tabal nga nagpasalamat man kay Guarte sa pagtiglawas sang Pilipinas kag pagaserbe nga inspirasyon sa iban nga mga atleta nga Pinoy.
Matandaan nga si Guarte ang nagakatulog sa balay sang isa ka barangay official sang natabo ang pagbuno sa iya kahapon.
Ginapangita pa tubtob subong ang tawo nga nagbuno-patay sa atleta.
𝗖𝗔𝗟𝗔𝗣𝗔𝗡 — Patay ang isa ka Southeast Asian (SEA) Games gold medalist matapos ginbuno sa dughan samtang nagakatulog sa Calapan City, Oriental Mindoro.
Ang biktima amo si Mervin Maligo Guarte, 33, miyembro sang Philippine Air Force kag naka-assign sa Fernando Airbase sa Lipa City.
Gindala pa si Guarte sa ospital, apang wala natabangan.
Natabo ang krimen sa balay sang abyan sang biktima nga si Barangay Kagawad Dante Abel sa Sitio Pinagkaisahan sa Barangay Camilmil, Calapan City, las 4:30 kaina sang kaagahon.
Roden Fulache, hepe sang Calapan City police, nagakatulog si Guarte sa sala sang balay ni Abel sang ginbuno sang wala pa makilal-an nga suspek.
Nakapangayo pa sang bulig ang biktima sa mga kasilingan nga nagdala sa iya sa Sta.
Maria Village Hospital antes ginsaylo sa Mindoro Medical Center sa diin siya gindeklarar nga patay.
Nagwa sa imbestigasyon nga nagbisita lang ang biktima sa lugar kag nag-inom inom kagab-i tubtob las 3:00 kaina sang kaagahon.
Narekober sang mga imbestigador sa ginluntaran sang krimen ang kutsilyo nga ginamit sa pagpatay kay Guarte.
Ginpakamalaot naman ni Oriental Mindoro Governor Humerlito “Bonz” Dolor ang pagpatay kay Guarte kadungan sang panawagan sang hustisya.
“Hindi matitinag ang aming panawagan para sa katarungan at patuloy naming hinahangad na mapanagot ang mga responsible sa krimeng ito,” sabi ni Dolor sa isang Facebook post.
Alex Eala, maga-atubang sa pamilyar nga kasumpong sa imbukada sang Australian Open qualifiers
Maga-atubang ang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala sa mabudlay apang pamilyar nga kasumpong sa imbukada sang Australian Open qualifiers.
7:00 buwas sa aga, Enero 7, makasumpong sini ang world No.
28-anyos na si Fett kag naka-abante sa second round sang French Open main draw sang nagligad nga tuig.
Naka-atubangay man anay sila sang Pinay player sa second round sang 2021 W25 Manacor sa Spain sang 16-anyos pa lamang si Eala.
Sang amo nga tion, daog ang Croatian kag nagapang-97 sa world ranking.
Subong naman nga 2025, ika-148 na sa world ranking si Eala, nagaedad na sang 19-anyos, kag isa na ka 2022 US Open junior singles champion.
Sang 2024, tatlo ka beses siya nga halos makasulod sa Grand Slam event matapos nakasulod sa third and final qualifying rounds sang French Open, Wimbledon, kag US Open.
Nangin mabudlay naman ang iya banas sa Australian Open matapos wala na naka-abante halin sa opening round sang qualifiers sa 2023 kag 2024.
Sanday Eala kag Fett ang pareho man nga nag-intra sa WTA 125 Workday Canberra International sang nagligad nga semana.
Nadagdag ang Croatian sa first round samtang nakadaog naman si Eala sang lima ka hampang lakip na ang duha sa qualifiers kag nakasulod pa sa semifinals.
128 ka players ang nagalaum para sa main draw sang Australian Open kag 41 diri ang may mas mataas nga ranggo ipaanggid sa Pinay tennis player.
Natabo ini sa hampang sang Los Angeles batok sa Atlanta Hawks, 119-102.
Nalab-ot ni James ang at least 30 points sa regular season nga amo na ang ika-563 sa iya nga karera nga lapaw na sa record nga gin-establisar ni Jordan sang 2003.
Na-set ni Jordan ang iya record sa 1,072 games sa masobra 15 ka seasons, samtang nahimo naman ini ni James sa iya ika-1,523 nga appearance sa masobra 22 seasons.
Tuman naman ang kalipay ni LeBron bangud idolo sini si Jordan halin sa iya pagdaku sa Akron, Ohio kag suksok sini ang jersey number 23 bangud sa amo nga basketball great.
Matandaan nga nalapawan man anay ni LeBron si MJ sa ikaapat nga pwesto sa career scoring list sa NBA sang March 2019, kag sang amo nga tion, naghibi gid ang Lakers star samtang yara sa bench.
Ini na ang pang-22 nga season sang 40-anyos nga Lakers forward sa liga apang wala pa ini sang paghinay kaangay sang 38 puntos nga iya ginpaulan batok sa Portland.
Tatlo lamang ka players sa NBA history ang nakaskor sang at least 30 points sa NBA game apisar lapaw na sa 40 anyos ang edad.
Apat ka beses ini nga nahimo ni Jordan, isa ka bes para kay Dirk Nowitzki, kag duha ka beses na nga nahimo ni James sa nauna nga lima ka adlaw sa iya pagtungtong sa 40 years old.
Jimmy Butler, ginaalegar naghingyo na nga maghalin sa Miami Heat
Nagatunog pa ang mga espekulasyon nga opisyal na nga naghingyo ang six-time All-Star nga si Jimmy Butler nga i-trade siya halin sa Miami Heat.
Sa latest interview kay Butler, ginsiling sini nga gusto niya nga mabatyagan liwat ang kalipay sa paghambal sang basketball.
Sang ginpamangkot kun makit-an niya ina nga kalipay sa Miami, sabat ni Butler: “Probably not.”
Sa latest game sang Heat batok sa Indiana, nalutos ang Miami kag naka-skor lamang si Butler sang nueve puntos.
Wala man siya ginpasulod sa fourth quarter kaangay man sa natabo sa ila nauna nga hampang batok sa New Orleans.
Wala pa sang opisyal nga statement halin sa Miami star nga direkta nga nagasiling nga gusto niya maghalin, apang may nagaguwa na nga inisyal nga reports nga gusto sini ma-trade antes ang deadline sa Pebrero 6.
Sang yara siya sa Miami sa 13 seasons, 12 ka beses sila nga nakasulod sa playoffs lakip na ang duha ka NBA Finals kag isa ka Eastern Conference finals.
Ang ginabati-bati nga kadtuan sini pananglitan madayon ang trade amo ang Phoenix Suns, Golden State Warriors, Houston Rockets kag Dallas Mavericks.
World’s oldest living Olympic champion nga si Agnes Keleti, napatay na sa edad nga 103
Napatay na ang five-time Olympic champion kag Hungarian gymnast nga si Agnes Keleti nga amo ang ginakilala nga pinakatigulang nga nagkabuhi nga Olympic gold medalist.
Base sa kumpirmasyon sang Hungarian Olympic Committee, nagtaliwan si Keleti sa edad nga 103.
Nabun-ag siya bilang si Agnes Klein sa Budapest sang Enero 9, 1921 kag nagsulod sa National Gymnastics Association sang 1938.
Nadag-an sini ang iya una nga Hungarian championship sang 1940, apang sang amo man nga tuig, gin-ban siya sa tanan nga sports activities bangud sa iya nga Jewish origin.
Nakapalagyo si Keleti sa deportation sa Nazi death camps ukon ang mga kampo kun sa diin linibo ka Hungarian Jews ang ginpangpatay.
Sang naga-edad sang 31, nadag-an sini ang iya una nga Olympic gold sa Finland apisar nga ini nga edad amo ang masami nga edad kun sa diin naga-retiro na ang iban nga gymnasts.
Sa Australia, nadag-an sini ang apat ka Olympic gold medals kag nangin oldest female gymnast nga nakadaog sang bulawan nga medalya.#
20 ka mga atleta, ipadala sang Pilipinas sa 2025 Asian Winter Games
Magapadala ang Pilipinas sang 20 ka mga atleta sa 2025 Asian Winter Games nga patigayunon sa Harbin, China sa Pebrero.
Base sa Philippine Olympic Committee, anum sa 11 sports ang pasakupan sang mga tiglawas sang nasyon sa Harbin games.
May yara man sang figure skaters halin sa Philippine Skating Union lakip sanday Paolo Borromeo, Sofia Frank, Cathryn Limketkai, kag pares nanday Isabella Gamez kag newly-naturalized Aleksandr Korovin.
Si Peter Groseclose naman ang maga-compete sa short track speed skating.
May tiglawas man halin sa Philippine Ski and Snowboarding Association nga amo si Francis Ceccarelli kag Talullah Proulx sa alpine skiing, Laetaz Amihan Rabe sa freestyle skiing, kag Adrian Tongco sa snowboarding.
Ginalantaw sang Philippine Olympic Committee nga preparasyon ini sang Pilipinas para nga makakuha sang labing-una nga medalya sa Winter Olympics.
Si Richard Lim amo ang chef de mission sang Team Philippines halin sa February 7-14 sa Harbin sa amo nga pungsod.
Football: Pilipinas, napaslawan nga maka-abante sa finals sang 2024 ASEAN championship
Ginkabos ang Philippine men’s national football team nga maka-abante kuntani sa labing-una nga tion sa finals sang ASEAN Championship.
Ini matapos nalutos sa powerhouse team sang Thailand, 3-1, sa extra time sang second leg sang semifinals subong nga gab-i sa Rajamangala Stadium sa Bangkok.
Una nga naka-skor para sa defending champions si Peeradon Chamratsamee sa ika-37 nga minuto sang hampang kag ginsundan ni Patrik Gustavson sa 54th minute.
Wala nagpangampo ang Pilipinas kag nabuhian sang paglaum sang naka-goal si Bjorn Martin Kristensen sa 84th minute nga amo ang nagpatas sa aggregate score sang duha ka mga team, 3-3.
Pag-abot sa extra time, diri na kag nakuha sang Thais ang kadalag-an nga ginkahugyaw sang malapit 32,000 fans sa home field matapos nagsulod ang star striker nga si Suphanat Mueanta bilang substitute.
Ang iya late header sa 116th minute amo ang dalayon nga nagpa-abante sa powerhouse team sa finals paagi sa 4-3 aggregate.
Antes ang Leg 2, matandaan nga ginpatilaw anay sang Pilipinas ang Thailand sang mapait nga kalutusan sa imbukada sang semifinals, 2-1.
Ini ang una nga pagdaog sang Pilipinas batok sa Thai booters sa sulod sang masobra lima ka dekada.
Sunod nga atubangon sang Thailand ang Vietnam sa final game.
Kun sila ang magdaog, ini na ang ila ikatatlo nga sunod-sunod nga korona sa sini nga tournament.
Team captain sang Filipinas nga si Tahnai Annis, nagretiro na sa football
Gin-anunsyo sang beterano nga football player kag longtime captain sang Philippine women’s national football team nga si Tahnai Annis nga maga-retiro na ini sa paghampang.
Suno sa Filipinas skipper nga nabun-ag sa United States apang may roots sa Lucena City, nabatyagan na niya nga tion na agud magpahuway ang iya lawas kag pinsar sa football.
Nakasulod si Annis sa Philippine women’s football program sang 2018 kag ginbuligan ang national team sa sunod-sunod nga mga kadalag-an sa naglinigad nga mga tinuig.
Nangin captain siya sang team nga nag-qualify sa FIFA Women’s World Cup 2023 kag nagkampyon man sa 2022 AFF Women’s Championship sa Manila.
Nag-retiro siya nga may 14 goals para sa national team.
Ginpahalin na sang Sacramento Kings ang ila head coach nga si Mike Brown.
Lima ka sunod-sunod nga kalutusan ang naangkon sang Kings sa hampang sa ila mismo homecourt kag nagapang-12 sila subong nga season sa Western Conference.
Base sa reports, si assistant coach Doug Christie ang magabulos apang sa interim basis lamang.
13-18 ang record sang Sacramento subong kag nalutos pa, 114-113, sa kamot sang Detroit Pistons sang nagligad nga Huwebes.
Sang 2023, matandaan nga ginboto si Brown bilang NBA Coach of the Year matapos ginpangunahan sini ang Kings nga maka-abante sa Western Conference playoffs sa labing-una nga tion sa sulod sang 16 ka tuig.
Sang Hunyo, nahatagan siya sang tatlo ka tuig nga contract extension.
Antes sa Kings, naka-coach siya sa Cleveland Cavaliers kag Los Angeles Lakers kag nangin assistant coach kay Steve Kerr sa Golden State Warriors.
HISTORIC WIN: Pilipinas, ginlutos ang Thailand sa 1st leg sang Asean Championship semifinals
Nakahimo sang maragtas ang Philippine men’s national football team matapos ginlutos ang seven-time champion kag Southeast Asian powerhouse nga Thailand sa imbukada nga hampang sa semifinals sang 2024 ASEAN Championship, 2-1.
Sa atubang sang Filipino football fans sa Rizal Memorial Stadium sa Manila ginpatigayon ang hampang subong nga gab-i, Disyembre 27, nga amo ang nagamarka sang una nga kadalag-an sang national booters batok sa Thailand sa sulod sang masobra 50 ka tuig.
Sa 21st minute sang football match, si Sandro Reyes ang naka-una skor para sa Pilipinas kag ginpasundan ni Kike Linares sang game-winning header sa stoppage time.
Kinahanglan ipabilin sang Pilipinas ang skor kag lutuson liwat ang powerhouse team sa second leg sa Rajamangala National Stadium sa Bangkok para nga maka-abante sa labing-una nga tion sa finals sang tournament.
Nahibaluan nga ini ang una nga pagtapak sang mga Pinoy sa semifinals halin sang 2018.
Naghampang man ini subong nga gab-i nga wala ang team captain nga si Amani Aguinaldo bangud sa natipon nga yellow cards sa group stage.
Wala man si vice-captain Patrick Reichelt nga nag-anunsyo sang iya pag-retiro na sa national team sang nagligad lamang nga adlaw agud mas pasulabihon ang iya pamilya.
Antes ang resulta subong nga gab-i, 21-match winless streak ang ginsuprer sang Pilipinas batok sa Thais.
Sa nagligad nga lima ka beses nila nga pag-atubangay sa regional tournaments, isa ka tion lamang nga halos nagpalapit ang Pilipinas sa Thailand nga amo ang 1-1 draw sa 2018 AFF Suzuki Cup.
Gin-ako sang Golden State Warriors superstar nga si Stephen Curry nga nagahilapit na ang pagtakop sang iya karera sa National Basketball Association (NBA).
Suno sa 36-anyos nga shooter, mas ginaapresyar niya ang iya ika-16 nga season sa liga bangud sa kamatuoran nga malapit na siya magpaalam sa madinuagon nga career sini sa liga.
Si Curry ang nanguna sa Warriors agud makuha ang apat ka NBA titles.
Siya man ang two-time NBA Most Valuable Player, 10-time All-Star kag all-time leader sa 3-point shots nga nahimo nga subong lab-ot na sa 3,841.
Apisar sa dos puntos gid lamang nga iya nahimo batok sa Memphis Grizzlies sang nagligad nga semana, produktibo siya gihapon subong nga season nga may average nga 21.8 points, 5.0 rebounds kag 6.6 assists per game.
PBA player John Amores, iapelar ang pag-revoke sa iya lisensya
Plano sang kontrobersyal nga PBA player nga si John Amores nga i-apelar ang iya kaso sa Games and Amusement Board (GAB) nga nag-revoke sang iya license kasunod sang involvement sa isa ka shooting incident sa Lumban, Laguna tatlo ka bulan na ang nagligad.
Ginkumpirma ini ni PBA commissioner Willie Marcial apang wala pa sang petsa kun san-o himuon ni Amores ang iya appeal.
Sa subong, napaidalom ang 25-anyos nga si Amores sa one-conference ban without pay sa PBA.
Sa pihak sang iya indi manami nga reputasyon, napilian gihapon si Amores sa fifth round sang draft sang nagligad nga tuig sang Batang Pier.
Nagapabilin sa Ukrainian boxer nga si Oleksandr Usyk ang tatlo ka heavyweight world titles matapos liwat nga ginlutos si Tyson Fury sa ginpatigayon nga heavyweight championship rematch sa Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Nag-skor ang tatlo ka judges sang pareho nga 116-112 pabor sa 37-anyos nga kampyon rason nga na-retain sini ang WBA (Super), WBC kag WBO titles.
Si Usyk amo man ang una nga nagpatilaw sa 36-anyos nga Briton sang mapait nga kalutusan paagi sa split decision sang ginpatigayon ang ila four-belt unification bout sang Mayo.
Apang tatlo na lamang ka mga paha — WBA, WBO, kag WBC — ang gin-agawan kahapon matapos nga ginkakas kay Usyk ang IBF title bangud mas nagtutok ini sa rematch sa baylo nga atubangon ang mandatory challenger nga si Daniel Dubois.
Bangud naman sa resulta sang sini nga rematch, nagsaka na sa 23 pro wins nga may 14 knockouts ang record sang Ukrainian fighter nga isa man ka Olympic gold medalist kag former undisputed cruiserweight champion.
Nakatapak naman ini sa record sang boxing legends nga sanday Muhammad Ali, Joe Louis kag Mike Tyson bilang undisputed heavyweight kag labing-una pa sa four-belt era.
Sa pihak nga bahin, magluwas sa duha ka sunod-sunod nga kalutusan sa kamot sang isa lang ka boksidor, gina-uyatan man sang two-time world champion nga si Fury ang 34 wins kag isa ka draw sa iya nga professional record.
Sang nagdaog si Usyk, nagselebrar ini paagi sa pag-uyat sang sabre nga iya ni Ivan Mazepa nga isa ka baganihan sang Ukrainian nationalism nga nagpakig-away batok sa Russian control sang early 1700s.
Matandaan nga nakabutang sa record ni Usyk nga naka-serbe man ini bilang soldado sa Ukraine antes ang Russian invasion sa Kyiv halos tatlo ka tuig na ang nagligad.
Gilayon naman nga ginpanginbulahan ni Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky ang boksidor.
Tyansa ni John Amores sa pagbalik sa PBA, naalimunaw matapos ginbawi sang GAB ang iya lisensya
Indi na makahampang ang NorthPort Batang Pier player nga si John Amores sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) matapos ginbawi sang Games and Amusement Board (GAB) ang iya professional license.
Ginhimo ini nga tikang matapos napamatud-an nga guilty ang 25-anyos nga shooting guard sa “conduct unbecoming of a professional basketball player.”
Ini kasunod man sang imbestigasyon sa shooting incident sa Lumban, Laguna sang Septyembre kun sa diin involved ang nasambit nga basketball player.
Siya ang ginatudlo nga nagpalupok sang iya nga pusil batok sa isa ka lalaki matapos ang isa ka basketball game.
Gin-file na ang attempted homicide complaints batok sa iya kag sa iya utod apang pareho sila nga nakaguwa matapos nakapiyansa.
Antes ang desisyon sang GAB, nagpaguwa sang statement ang PBA nga nagdagdag sila sang one-conference suspension “without pay” batok kay Amores kag nag-require sa iya nga magkuha sang clearance halin sa counselors agud makahampang liwat.
Apang sa anum ka pahina nga desisyon sang GAB nga pirmado nanday chairman Francisco Rivera kag commissioners Manuel Plaza III kag Angel Bautista, indi na gid pwede nga makapasakop si Amores sa anuman nga professional basketball game nga sanctioned sang board lakip na ang PBA.
Matandaan nga nakilala man anay si Amores sa NCAA Season 98 matapos nga nag-amok sa hampang batok sa College of St.
Bangud sa iya pagpanapungol, ginsipa siya sa basketball program sang Jose Rizal University.
Sa preseason game sang 2022, na-involve man siya sa baisay batok kay Mark Belmonte sang University of the Philippines.
Apisar sini nga track record, ginkuha siya sang Batang Pier bilang 51st overall pick sa 2023 PBA Rookie Draft.
Football: Pilipinas, ginlutos ang Indonesia, maga-abante sa ASEAN Championship semis
Nasarangan sang Philippine Men’s National Football Team nga makabalik sa semifinals sang ASEAN Championship matapos ginlutos ang Indonesia, 1-0, sa atubang mismo sang Indonesian fans sa Manahan Stadium sa Surakarta.
Naka-skor ang Pilipinas paagi sa penalty kick ni Bjorn Kristensen sa ika-63 nga minuto sang hampang.
Bastante na ini agud mabutang ang mga Pinoy sa ikaduha nga pwesto sa Group B.
Nagapanguna sa sini nga grupo ang Vietnam nga may tatlo ka daog kag isa ka draw.
Nagtapos naman ang Pilipinas nga may isa ka daog kag tatlo ka draw.
Ang 1-1 draws sang Pilipinas ang nakuha sini sa hampang batok sa Myanmar, Laos, kag Vietnam.
Top two teams lamang ang makasulod sa semis gani nawigit ang Indonesia nga may 1-1-2 record.
Sa Disyembre 27 ang semifinal game sang Pilipinas batok sa Thailand nga amo ang nagapanguna sa Group A.
Patigayunon ini sa Rizal Memorial Stadium, kag may isa pa ka hampang sa December 30 sa Bangkok.
Daku ini nga kadalag-an para sa national team sang Pilipinas bangud ulihi nga nakahampang ang mga Pinoy sa ASEAN Championship semis sang 2018.
Pamatud-an sang Pilipinas sa atubang sang iban nga mga pungsod nga nakahimo na ini sang record sa patag sang gymnastics kag masanag pa ang puturo sang nasyon para sa sini nga sport event.
Suno sa Gymnastics of the Philippines (GAP), nadag-an sang Pilipinas ang bidding sa pag-host sang 2025 Junior World Artistic Gymnastics Championships.
Patigayunon ini sa Hulyo 12-21 sa masunod nga tuig kun sa diin 93 ka mga nasyon ang magapasakop.
Suno kay GAP president Cynthia Carrion, wala pa sang natumod nga official venue.
Ginalauman na nga mas makilala diri nga event kag mas makapakita sang maayo nga performance si Karl Eldrew nga manghod sang two-time Olympic gold medalist nga si Carlos Yulo.
Suno kay Carrion, ginalantaw nila nga mabulsa ni Eldrew ang gold medal.
Magluwas diri, ginapreparahan na sang Pilipinas ang pagpasakop sa 2028 Los Angeles Olympics kun sa diin ginalauman nga matupungan kun indi man malapawan ang duha ka gold medals ni Caloy sa artistic gymnastics.
Ginpahayag man ni Carrion nga nagalaum siya nga duha ka mga Yulo ang maga-compete sa Los Angeles sa amo nga tuig.
Antes ang Olympiada, mangin masako sa 2025 si Caloy ilabi na sa World Championship, World Cup, Southeast Asian Games kag Asian Championships magluwas pa sa pagkadto sa training camps sa United States, Spain, Korea, Japan, Australia kag sa United Kingdom.
ISAT-U, nadepensahan ang kampyonato sa RSCUAA Sports Festival
Sa gin-release nga final and official medal tally, nakasaad nga nakatipon ang mga atleta sang ISAT-U sang 96 ka gold, 68 ka silver, kag 64 ka bronze medals agud nga madala-liwat pauli ang kampyonato.
Nagpangaduha ang Capiz State University (CAPSU) nga may 64 ka gold, 37 ka silver, kag 75 ka bronze medals, samtang nagpangatlo ang West Visayas State University (WVSU) nga may 61 ka gold, 45 ka silver, kag 63 ka bronze medals.
Antes ini nga sports festival, ang ISAT-U man ang overall champions sang RSCUAA 2020 kag 2023 kun sa diin ang host amo ang Carlos Hilado Memorial State University; amo man sa 2018 edition sa Northern Iloilo State University (NISU), kag ang 2017 nga hinampang nga ginpatigayon naman sa University of Antique.
Ginabug-usan ini sang 42 ka sports events nga ginhiwat sa 22 ka venues.
Maragtason ini bangud ini ang una nga tion nga nangin host ang Iloilo State University of Fisheries Science and Technology (ISUFST) kag katapusan nga tion nga nakaupod ang mga unibersidad halin sa Negros Occidental bangud sa napirmahan na nga Negros Island Region Act.
13 ka state universities halin sa anum ka mga probinsya ang kabug-usan nga nagpasakop sa sini nga aktibidad nga may tema nga “One Western Visayas: Promoting Peace, Inclusivity, and Well-Being through Sports.”
Sa closing ceremonies sa Tamasak Arena sa Barotac Nuevo, Iloilo, opisyal man nga ginpasa ang sulu sa NISU nga amo naman ang maga-serbe nga masunod nga host sang hinampang.
Gin-ako ni Warriors superstar Stephen Curry kun daw ano ka makahuluya ang 51-puntos nga abanse nga gintambak sang Memphis Grizzlies batok sa pangayaw nga Golden State sa ila hampang subong nga regular season, 144-93.
Sa 24 minutos nga playing time, dos puntos gid lamang ang nahimo ni Curry nga amo ang pinakamanubo sini nga na-skor sa isa ka hampang sa iya 16-anyos nga karera sa liga.
Ang iya teammate nga si Draymond Green ang wala gid naka-puntos, wala sang rebound, wala sang block, wala sang assist, kag may isa gid lamang ka steal sa sulod sang 19 minutos nga paghampang.
“We ran into a buzz saw,” suno kay Curry.
“That was embarrassing,” pahayag pa sini.
Nakadangat pa sa 57-puntos ang abanse sang Grizzlies antes nagtakop ang hampang nga 51 puntos ang gap sa ila scores.
Ini nga final margin kag point deficit amo ang pinakadaku nga na-rekord subong nga season.
Ini ang ika-lima nga tion sa maragtas sang Warriors nga nalutos sila sa hampang sa regular season sa masobra 50 puntos.
Sa sining lima, tatlo ang natabo sa sulod lamang sang lima ka tuig — 53 puntos sa Tampa, Florida sang 2021; 52 puntos sa Boston sang Marso 2024; kag 51 puntos sa Sacramento, California kahapon sang aga PHT.
Ini nga hampang amo man ang debut ni Dennis Schroder sa Warriors halin sang gin-trade ini sang Brooklyn Nets.
Nagtapos siya nga may five points kag five assists.
Sa pihak nga bahin, gina-selebrar naman sang Grizzlies (19-9) ang ila duha ka daku nga kadalag-an subong nga regular season.
Magluwas nga ginpahuy-an ang Warriors (14-12), ginlutos man nila ang Portland Trail Blazers sang Nobyembre 10 paagi sa 45 puntos nga abanse.
Lakers star LeBron James, naagaw ang panibag-o nga NBA record para sa regular-season minutes
Nalapawan na ni Los Angeles Lakers superstar LeBron James ang record ni six-time NBA Most Valuable Player Kareem Abdul-Jabbar sa pinakamalawig nga minutos nga paghampang sa regular season history sa liga.
Nalab-ot ni James ang pang-57,447 nga minuto kadungan sang paghampang kag pagdaog sang Lakers batok sa Sacramento Kings, Disyembre 20 PHT.
Antes kay LeBron, ang naga-uyat sini nga record amo si Abdul-Jabbar nga isa man ka six-time NBA champion.
Nagtapos ini sa iya karera sang 1989 nga nakahampang sa sulod sang 57,446 minutes.
Naguba ini nga record sa ika-dies nga minuto nga hampang sang Lakers batok sa Kings — nga amo man ang team nga kasumpong ni James kadungan sang iya NBA debut kaupod sa Cleveland Cavaliers sang 2003.
Sa kabug-usan, 1,500 games na ang na-updan ni James sa iya bilog nga karera sa NBA.
A little bit more time now,” pahayag sini matapos ang nakuha ang bag-o nga record.
Subong nga Disyembre, maga-tungtong na ang Lakers superstar sa edad nga 40-anyos.
Duha na ka games ang iya na-miss subong nga season.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nalapawan man ni LeBron si Abdul-Jabbar kag nangin all-time leading scorer nga subong may masobra na sa 41,000 points nga nahimo.
NBA: Karl-Anthony Towns, maga-atubang sa iya former team nga Timberwolves subong nga aga
Sa labing-una nga tion subong nga season sa National Basketball Association (NBA), atubangon ni Karl-Anthony Towns ang iya former team nga Minnesota Timberwolves.
Magapangayaw si Towns kag ang bag-o sini nga team nga New York Knicks sa Minneapolis 10:30 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas.
Antes sini nga hampang, siyam ka season nga fan favorite si Towns sa Timberwolves nga may 573 games kag may average nga nga 22.9 points kag 10.8 rebounds per game.
Apang gin-trade siya sang Wolves sa Knicks kabaylo sang package nga nagalakip kanday Julius Randle, Donte DiVincenzo kag isa ka first-round pick sa 2025.
Sa New York naman, may average si Towns nga 24.8 points kag may career-best nga 13.9 rebounds.
Sa 15 ka hampang sang Knicks subong nga season, 11 ang ila nadag-an, samtang ang Timberwolves naman ang may 14-11 nga record.
Nagapanguna sa Wolves si Anthony Edwards nga may 26.2 points per game.
Sa Knicks, pinakabalantayan si Jalen Brunson nga may 25.0 points per game sa 48.9 percent shooting nga ginasundan ni Towns sa scoring.
Asean Cup: Hampang sang Pilipinas vs Vietnam, nagtakop sa 1-1 draw
Nabutang sa ital-ital ang tiyansa sang Pilipinas nga makasulod sa knockout stage sang Asean Cup matapos nagtakop sa 1-1 draw ang hampang sini batok sa Vietnam sa Rizal Memorial Stadium.
Nabuhian kuntani sang paglaum ang men’s football team sang napasulod ni Jarvey Gayoso ang una nga goal sa 68th minute sang hampang, apang wala nagdugay ang selebrasyon bangud nakasapar ang Vietnam kag naka-goal sang equalizer sa ika-98 nga minuto sang hampang.
Ini na ang pangatlo nga draw sang Philippine team sa sini nga tournament.
Bangud sini, kinahanglan nga lutuson sang Pilipinas ang Indonesia sa Sabado, Disyembre 21.
Pang-apat subong ang mga Pinoy sa Group B nga may 3 points samtang nagapanguna naman ang Vietnam nga may 7 pts, ginasundan sang Indonesia kag Myanmar nga may tag-kuatro puntos, samtang pang-lima naman ang Laos nga may 2 points.
Kuwalipikado na subong ang Vietnam para sa semifinals.
Ang top two teams lamang ang maka-abanse sa masunod nga round.
Hampang sang Mavericks kag Warriors, naghimo sang bag-o nga NBA record
Nakahimo sang panibag-o nga NBA record ang gintingob nga performance sang Dallas Mavericks kag Golden State Warriors para sa may pinakamadamo nga 3-pointers sa isa ka hampang .
Sa nasambit nga match kun sa diin nagdaug ang Mavericks sa score nga 143-133 batok sa Warriors, 48 tanan ka 3- pointers ang nahimo sang duha ka teams.
Ang Warriors may yara sang 27 ka three-pointers samtang 21 naman ang nahimo sang Dallas.
Ginpangunahan ni Luka Doncic ang Dallas sa iya 45 points, 11 rebounds, kag 13 assists.
Ang kadalag-an nag-improve sang record sang Dallas sa 17-9 kag na- secure ang no.
Nanguna naman sa Golden State si Andrew Wiggins nga may 29 kag nagdugang si Stephen Curry sang 26 points kalakip na ang pito ka three-pointers apang ginkabos ini gihapon batok sa Mavericks.
Eldrew Yulo, nakakuha sang 8 gold medals sa gymnastics competition sa Hong Kong
Liwat nga nagpangulintas sang medalya ang manghod ni two-time Olympic gold medalist Carlos Yulo nga si Eldrew Yulo sa gymnastics competition sa Hong Kong.
Siya ang may pinakadamo nga nakuha nga medalya sa 25-medal haul sang Team Philippines sa Chiu Wai Chung Cup.
16-anyos pa lamang subong si Eldrew kag ginakabig na nga masunod nga great Filipino gymnastics prospect kasunod sa iya magulang.
Sang Mayo, matandaan nga nakuha man ni Eldrew ang junior vault gold sa Men’s Artistic Gymnastics Asian Championships sa Uzbekistan kag ginsundan pa sang apat gid ka bulawan nga medalya (individual all-around, floor exercise, vault, kag still rings) kag duha ka silvers (team all-around kag parallel bars) sa Artistic Gymnastics Stars Championships sa Thailand sang Nobyembre.
Ginalantaw man nga malakip na si Eldrew sa ipadala sang Pilipinas sa Los Angeles Olympics sa 2028 nga kun matabo magadungan kay Caloy nga nagaplano man nga makasulod sa iya ikatatlo na nga Olympiada.
Bilang kabaylo, ipadala naman sang Warriors sa Nets ang ila injured guard nga si De’Anthony Melton kag tatlo ka second-round picks.
Magluwas kay Schroder nga isa man ka 2023 World Cup champion, makabaton man ang Golden State sang 2025 second-round draft pick (via Miami).
Nahibaluan nga may average ang 31-anyos nga si Schroder nga 18.4 points kag may career-best nga 6.6 assists sa 23 ka hampang sini sa Nets subong nga season nga pang-10 sa Eastern Conference.
Ini na ang iya pang-12 nga NBA season kag mangin ikawalo sini nga team ang Warriors matapos ang iya stints sa Atlanta Hawks, Oklahoma City Thunder, Los Angeles Lakers, Boston Celtics, Toronto Raptors, kag Houston Rockets.
Ginalauman nga ma-finalize ini nga trade subong nga adlaw kun tugutan na sang National Basketball Association (NBA) ang paghulag sang mga team.
Kun maplantsa na ang agreement, mahatagan ang Warriors sang isa pa ka shooter nga mahimo makaupod kay Stephen Curry.
NBA: Joel Embiid, indi pa sigurado kun san-o makabalik matapos nagsuprer sang sinus fracture
Bag-o lang nakabalik sa hampang kag naka-recover sa injury ang former NBA-Most Valuable Player nga si Joel Embiid apang kinahanglan naman sini liwat nga magpahuway matapos nagsuprer sang sinus fracture.
Natabo ini sa 30-anyos nga superstar center sa hampang sang Philadelphia 76ers batok sa Indiana Pacers kun sa diin nalutos sanday Embiid, 121-107.
Tuyo kuntani sang big man nga mag-rebound apang naigo ang iya nawong sang siko ni Bennedict Mathurin sang Indiana.
12 puntos pa lamang, four rebounds, kag five assists ang nahimo sang Cameroon native sang amo nga tion apang kinahanglan na sini magguwa antes ang half-time.
Sunod nga ginkumpirma sang Sixers nga na-diagnose ini nga may sinus fracture kag kinahanglan ang evaluation subong nga weekend.
Ang sinus fracture amo ang pagkabali ukon crack sa tul-an nga nagapalibot sa sinuses nga posible tuga sang facial trauma ukon mabug-at nga impact.
Ini nga injury ang mahimo magresulta sa seryoso nga mga kumplikasyon kaangay sang sinus infections, kabudlay sa pagginhawa, kag facial deformity kun indi ma-treat sang maayo.
Nahibaluan nga ini pa lamang kuntani ang ikaduha nga hampang ni Embiid matapos wala nakaupod sa pito ka sambuwa subong nga season.
Sang 2017-2018 season, nagsuprer man si Embiid sang orbital bone fracture.
Ginsundan ini sang injury sa Game 6 sang first-round playoff game sang Philadelphia batok sa Toronto sang 2022.
Regional SCUAA 2024, magabukas na subong nga adlaw
Magasugod na subong nga adlaw, Disyembre 15, ang ginakalangkagan nga mga aktibidad sa Regional State Colleges and Universities Athletic Association (RSCUAA) 2024.
Magalawig ini nga festival tubtub sa Disyembre 20 kun sa diin balantayan ang 42 sports events sa 22 ka nagkalain-lain nga venues.
Magatipon sa sini nga hampang ang ginabanta 3,500 ka mga atleta, coaches, administrators, organizers, kag mga opisyal nagikan sa 13 regional state universities.
Bobby Gerardo, presidente sang Northern Iloilo State University kag chair sang Regional Association of State Universities and Colleges (RASUC) VI, amo ang opisyal nga magadeklarar sang pagbukas sang mga hinampang.
Herman Lagon, public relations chairperson sang RSCUAA 2024, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang labing-una nga tion nga maga-host ang Iloilo State University of Fisheries Science and Technology gani daku kag malawig man ang ila nga preparasyon.
Ginalantaw nga ini man ang katapusan nga tion nga maka-upod ang mga eskwelahan halin sa Negros Occidental matapos ang ginbalay nga Negros Island Region Act nga amo ang nagaseparar sang amo nga probinsya gikan sa Western Visayas.
Ginatos naman ka uniformed police officers kag iban pa nga personnel ang gindeploy sa nagkalain-lain nga venue agud nga mapasiguro ang katawhay kag seguridad sang mga magapasakop.
LeBron James, indi makaupod sa hampang sang Lakers vs.
Indi gihapon makaupod si LeBron James sa hampang sang Los Angeles Lakers batok sa Minnesota Timberwolves subong nga aga.
Gin-cite sang team ang “personal reasons”.
Sa hampang batok sa Portland, wala man siya nakaupod sa Lakers bangud sa “left foot soreness” nga naangkon sini matapos ang hampang batok sa Miami Heat.
Antes ang iya pag-absent, 22 ka beses nga yara ang 39-anyos nga forward sa mga hampang sang Lakers subong nga NBA season.
Naga-average siya sang 23 points, 9.1 assists kag eight rebounds apang bangud wala ini nag-practice sang nagligad nga Mierkules, nagataas ang espekulasyon sa isyu sa iya ikaayong lawas kag ginaalegar nga potential trade candidacy bangud sa iya edad nga maga-40-anyos na sa Disyembre 30.#
Nagsaka sa ika-lima nga pwesto ang San Miguel star nga si June Mar Fajardo sa all-time rebound list sang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA).
Ini matapos nahimo sini ang 19 rebounds kag 21 points sa hampang sang Beermen batok sa Terrafirma.
Bangud sini, nagdugang pa ini sa record sang reigning eight-time MVP kag subong nalapawan na sini ang league legend nga si Alvin Patrimonio.
Suno sa PBA, nagdangat na sa 6,163 rebounds ang nahimo ni Fajardo nga mas mataas sa 6,152 sang four-time MVP sa iya 17 ka season nga kaupod sa Purefoods franchise.
Impresibo ini nga record bangud pang-11 nga season pa lamang ini sang 6-foot-10 player.
Ang nagapanguna naman sa rebounding pack amo ang PBA icons nga sanday Ramon Fernandez (8,652), Abet Guidaben (8,570), kag Jerry Codiñera (7,034).
Human rights groups, nagwangal sa pagpili sa Saudi Arabia bilang 2034 host sang FIFA World Cup
Gin-ulan sang kritisismo ang FIFA ukon ang world governing body sang football matapos gin-anunsyo nga ang Saudi Arabia ang maga-host sang 2034 World Cup.
Sentro sang kahangawa sang mga grupo amo ang human rights record sang Saudi partikular na ang mga ebidensya nga nagatudlo kay Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman nga may ginmandu nga torture, mass executions kag forced disappearances.
Base sa Human Rights Watch, ang hosting documents sang Saudi Arabia ang nagapakita sang plano sini sa kun paano preparahan ang World Cup.
Lakip diri ang pagtukod sang 11 ka bag-o nga stadiums, masobra 185,000 ka bag-o nga hotel rooms, kag pagpasangkad pa sang mga imprastraktura lakip na ang dalan kag paluparan.
Ginakahangaw-an sang mga grupo nga mabutang sa alang-alang ang kabuhi sang construction workers kag iban pa nga migrant workers.
Nagsulat naman ang Human Rights Watch — kaupod ang 10 ka iban pa nga rights groups kag labor organizations lakip na ang Amnesty International and Football Supporters Europe — sa law firm nga naga-produce sang report para sa Saudi federation nga mapaguwa man ang ila nga concerns.
Antes ang World Cup, naga-host naman ang Kingdom sa high-profile events kaangay sa Formula One, heavyweight boxing kag WTA Finals.
Gina-akusaran man ini sang “sportswashing” — ukon ang termino kun sa diin ginagamit ang sports agud maliso ang atensyon sang publiko kun ano ang ila record sa paglapas sa kinamatarong sang mga tawo.
Indi ini ang una nga tion nga kontrobersyal ang pag-host sang nasyon sang FIFA World Cup bangud ginkwestyon man anay ang Russia kag Qatar nga pareho man nga may kontrobersyal nga record sa human rights.
Sang 2022, ginpatigayon ang tournament sa Qatar nga gin-ulan man sang kritisismo bangud sa pagtratar sini sa migrant workers.
UAAP Finals: La Salle, liwat maga-atubang sa UP sa do-or-die matapos ang Game 2, 76-75
Napuno sang emosyon ang Green Archers bangud natigayon nila nga mapalab-ot sa Game 3 ang hampang matapos nagtakop ang Game 2 sa skor nga 76-75 batok sa Fighting Maroons.
Nueve puntos pa ang lalagson sang La Salle sa pagsugod sang fourth quarter.
Antes ini nga frame, 11 puntos pa lamang ang nahimo sang back-to-back Most Valuable Player nga si Kevin Quiambao apang gin-doble sini ang output sa fourth quarter lakip na ang tatlo ka mga tres.
Si Quiambao nga player man sa Gilas Pilipinas ang nagtapos nga may 22 points, nine rebounds, two assists, kag isa ka steal.
Ini na ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga maga-diretso ang UP kag ang La Salle sa Game 3 sa finals sang men’s basketball.
Sa Domingo sang hapon ang third and final Season 87 Finals clash sang duha ka teams sa Araneta Coliseum sa Quezon City.
Timberwolves All-Star guard nga si Anthony Edwards, ginmultahan sa ikaduha na nga kahigayunan subong nga bulan
Ginmultahan sang NBA ang Minnesota Timberwolves All-Star guard nga si Anthony Edwards sang $25,000 ukon P1.4 million bangud sa paggamit sang bastos nga mga tinaga sa postgame media interview kasunod sang kadalag-an sang team batok sa Golden State Warriors sa score nga 107-90 sang Disyembre 6.
Ini matapos ginpamangkot si Edwards tuhoy sa depensa sang team kun sa diin gindayaw sini ang iya mga kaupdanan nga sanday Jaden McDaniels, Rudy Gobert, Naz Reid kag Julius Randle apang may mga bastos ng tinaga ini nga ginpangmitlang.
Apisar indi hungod, wala ini ginpalampas sang liga ilabi na nga ginadumilian ini sa tion sang interviews.
Ini na ang ikaduha nga tion subong nga bulan nga ginmultahan si Edwards bangud sa pag-flip niya sang iya middle finger sa mga referees sa hampang sang Minnesota batok sa Sacramento Kings sang Nobyembre 15.
Ginmultahan ini sang $35,000 ukon kapin P2 million bangud sa ginhimo niya nga gesture sang gintawagan siya sang violation nga wala niya ginkumpormehan.
NBA: 48 pts ni Jokic, nanguna sa pagtambak sang Nuggets sa Hawks
Wala preno ang puntos nga ginpaulan sang reigning NBA Most Valuable Player nga si Nikola Jokic nga amo ang nagpanguna sa kadalag-an sang Denver Nuggets batok sa Atlanta Hawks, 141-111.
48 puntos ang nahimo sang Serbian superstar nga gin-updan pa sang 14 rebounds, eight assists kag three steals.
Natabo ini matapos nga naka-56 puntos man ang star center sa hampang sang Nuggets batok sa Washington Wizards sang Domingo.
Apang sang amo nga tion, nalutos ang Denver, 122-113, nga amo man ang nagtapos sang 16-game losing streak sang Washington.
Sa hampang naman batok sa Hawks, nagdugang si Michael Porter Jr.
sang 26 points para sa Denver samtang nagtapos naman si Christian Braun nga may 17.
Ini ang nagtuldok sa anum ka sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an sang Atlanta.
Indi naman matago ni Denver coach Michael Malone ang kalipay sa impresibo nga performance ni Jokic.
Gintawag sini nga pribelihiyo ang oportunidad nga matudluan ang nasambit nga three-time MVP.
Ini nga kadalag-an ang nagpasaka sa record sang Denver sa 12-10 subong nga season.
Triple double ni Luka Doncic, nanguna sa 7th straight win sang Mavs
Nanguna si Luka Doncic sa paglutos sang Dallas Mavericks sa Toronto Raptors, 125-118, nga amo na ang ikapito nga sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an sang Mavs subong nga season.
30 points, 13 rebounds, kag 11 assists ang nahimo ni Doncic nga amo man ang iya ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga triple-double para sa team kag ika-79 naman sa iya bug-os nga karera.
Nagabutang ini sa iya sa ika-pito sa all-time list sang NBA.
Nagdugang man si Kyrie Irving sang 29 points para sa Mavs samtang may 20 points si Klay Thompson kag 13 points si PJ Washington.
Pangaduha na subong ang Mavs sa Western Conference nga may 16-8 record sa 24 games.
Nagapanguna gihapon ang Oklahoma City Thunder nga may 18 ka daog kag lima ka kalutusan.
Ilonggo nga champion sa Batang Pinoy 2024, grade 3 pa lang sang nag-umpisa sa paghanas
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Nagbunga ang paghimakas sang isa ka Ilonggo nga estudyante matapos nag-champion sa Pencak Silat Tunggal Junior Novice Male sa Batang Pinoy 2024 nga ginpatigayon sa Puerto Princesa, Palawan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Lamayo, iya ginpahayag nga grade 3 siya sang gin-engganyo sang iya manunudlo nga maghampang sang Pencak Silat.
Suno kay Lamayo, suportado man ang iya pamilya ang iya nangin hampang.
Nangin dako man nga bulig sa iya kadalag-an ang ila mga coaches nga nagbubo sang ila tyempo agud matutukan sila sa hampang.
Nagalaom man si Lamayo nga mangin ehemplo siya sa iya kaangay nga mga kabataan nga masarangan nga mabalanse ang paghampang kag pagtuon.
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Patigayunon ang debut tournament sang National Schools Dragon Boat League sa Disyembre 14 tubtob 15 sa Iloilo River.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jennifer Garganera, myembro sang Iloilo Dragon Boat Club, Incorporated, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang mangin debut tournament.
Suno kay Garganera, ini ang pinakauna nga kahigayunan nga maga-host ang Iloilo City sang Inter-School Dragon Boat Competition.
Pasakupan naman ini sang private kag public high schools sa syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo.
May yara naman sang tatlo ka mga categories nga ginalakipan sang Open/ Collegiat Class, High School Class kag Teachers and Staff Class.
Katuyuan naman sini amo nga ma-promote ang dragon boat sport sa grassroots bilang mainstream sport nga maga-uphold sang camaraderie, fitness kag healthy lifestyle.
RSCUAA sa Western Visayas, patigayunon na sa Disyembre 15-20
Patigayunon ini sa Disyembre 15 tubtob 20 sa nagkalain-lain nga mga venues sa Iloilo.
Herman Lagon, Public Relations Chairperson sang RSCUAA 2024 kag professor sa ISUFST, iya ginpahayag nga linibo ka mga atleta kag coaches ang magapasakop sa kahiwatan halin sa 13 ka mga state universities sa bug-os nga Western Visayas.
Suno kay Lagon, sa pinakauna nga kahigayunan, ang ISUFST ang maga-host sang RSCUAA.
Ini man ang pinakaulihi nga tion nga maga-upod ang mga unibersidad sa Negros Occidental sa RSCUAA bangud magaseparar na ang Negros Island Region sa masunod nga RSCUAA.
Katuyuan naman sang aktibidad nga ma-promote ang sportsmanship, unity, kag talento.
Ginakabig ni Pinoy champ Manny Pacquiao nga “Christmas gift” ang pagpili sa iya sa International Boxing Hall of Fame nga mangin kabahin sang Class of 2025.
Siya ang magapanguna sa latest batch sa patigayunon nga induction ceremony sa Hunyo 5-8 sa Canastota, New York, USA.
Sa statement sang 45-anyos nga boksidor, ginsiling sini nga sa bilog niya nga karera bilang professional fighter kag public servant, nagapabilin nga tinutuyo sini nga madala ang dungog sa Pilipinas kag sa mga Pilipino sa diin man nga bahin sang kalibutan.
Ginakabig ang tumandok sang General Santos City nga isa sa most decorated boxers sa maragtas nga nakadaog sa world championships sa walo ka weight divisions halin sa flyweight pakadto sa super welterweight.
Nagretiro ang Filipino southpaw sa professional boxing sang 2021 matapos ang 72-fight career kun sa diin may yara sang 62 wins, 8 losses, kag 2 draws.
Naatubang sini ang pinaka-popular nga pangalan sa boxing kaangay kanday Marco Antonio Barrera, Timothy Bradley, Juan Manuel Marquez, Oscar de La Hoya, Ricky Hatton, Shane Mosley, Erik Morales, kag Miguel Cotto.
Magluwas nga bantog nga boksidor, may pangalan man nga nahimo si Pacquiao sa guwa sang ring kaaangay sang pagpangalagad bilang pulitiko, philanthropist, kag singer.
Bangud sa iya bag-o nga achievement, updan na sini sa ranks ang iya longtime coach nga si Freddie Roach nga na-induct sa Hall of Fame sang 2012, kag ang Filipino boxing icons nga sanday Gabriel “Flash” Elorde (1993) kag Francisco “Pancho Villa” Guilledo (1994).
‘Walang hinto hangga’t walang ginto’: Nesthy Petecio, tinguhaan nga makuha ang gold sa 2028 Olympics
Tinguhaan sang two-time Olympic medalist nga si Nesthy Petecio nga makasulod sa Los Angeles Olympics 2028 agud makuha ang iya ginahandum nga bulawan nga medalya.
Nagalaum si Nesthy nga sa 2028 na sini makumpleto ang tatlo ka mga duag sang medals matapos nabulsa sini ang silver medal sa Tokyo 2020 kag ang bronze medal sa Paris 2024.
Ang 32-anyos nga tumandok sang Davao Del Sur amo ang una nga Philippine boxer nga nakadaog sang medalya sa back-to-back Olympics.
Samtang malayo pa ang Olympiada, ginapreparahan anay ni Petecio ang world championships kag ang Southeast Asian Games.
Wala pa sang kasiguruhan subong kun malakip pa ang boksing sa masunod nga Summer Games.
Wala sang boxing matches kun indi makakita ang International Olympic Committee (IOC) sang bag-o nga international boxing body sa 2025.
Apang suno kay Petecio, wala pa sang tinimok-timok halin sa iya National Sports Association kun madula gid man ang boxing gani nga hugot pa ang iya paglaum.
Base sa reports, ginpahayag ni IOC president Thomas Bach nga himuon sa 2025 ang desisyon kun malakip gid man ini nga hampang sa masunod nga Olympiada.
May yara subong sang World Boxing nga isa ka newly established international federation nga naga-preparar sa pag-bid para sa spot sang amo nga sports event sa quadrennial event.
Sa pagkamatuod, nagahilapit na ini sa gina-require nga 50-National Olympic Committee (NOC) membership threshold.
May yara na ini subong sang 37 members lakip ang Philippines, ang United States, Australia, kag Canada.
Ini nga international federation ang ginapangunahan sang Common Cause Alliance nga nagseparar sa Russian-influenced nga International Boxing Association (IBA) sang 2022.
Former boxing champion sang Mexico nga si Israel Vazquez, napatay na bangud sa cancer
Ginbawian siya sang kabuhi sa edad nga 46-anyos bangud sa ginsuprer nga cancer.
1995 ang professional boxing debut ni Vazquez nga amo ang nagpabantog sa iya kumbinasyon sang kadasig sang kamot kag punching power.
Didto nagsugod ang iya karera kun sa diin nalakip ang four-fight rivalry batok kay Rafael Marquez kun sa diin duha ka beses siya nga nagdaog kag duha ka beses man nga nalutos.
Ang ila hampang sang 2007 kag 2008 amo ang ginkilala nga fights of the year.
Ang knockout victory naman ni Marquez sang 2010 amo naman ang katapusan nga sambuwa ni Vasquez.
Sang nagligad lang nga bulan sang ginkumpirma ni Vasquez nga may ginasuprer siya nga sarcoma.
Natapos ang iya karera sa boksing nga may 44-5 record kun sa diin may 32 knockouts.
Mangin ang long-time trainer ni Manny Pacquiao nga si Freddie Roach ang nagtawag kay Vasquez nga “forever a world champion” kag “legend in boxing” kasunod sang iya kamatayon.
Hagna nga maga-naturalize sa Russian skater nga si Korovin, aprubado na sa final reading sa Senado
Gin-aprubahan na sang Senado sa third kag final reading ang hagna nga nagahatag sang Philippine citizenship sa Russian figure skater nga si Aleksandr Sergeyevich Korovin.
Ang bill nga naga- naturalize kay Korovin bilang Filipino ang ginaduso sa tunga sang preparasyon sang Pilipinas para sa 2026 Winter Olympics sa Italian cities sang Milan kag Cortina d’Ampezzo.
Ang Russian national ang nangin partner sang Filipina figure skater nga si Isabella Gamez, nga nag-qualify sa Winter Olympics sa pairs category upod si Korovin.
Sanday Korovin kag Gamez ang naga- compete na sa pila ka international figure skating competitions humalin sang 2021 kag ila ginadala ang Philippine flag matapos nga ginhingyo sang Philippine Skating Union nga buy-an ang Russian national gikan sa Russian Skating Federation.
Suno kay Senate Justice and Human Rights Committee chairperson Francis Tolentino, subong na ang husto nga tion nga makadaug sang medalya ang Pilipinas sa Winter Olympics paagi kanday Gamez kag Korovin.
RANK UP: PCG promotion, opisyal na nga ginhatag sa Olympic medalist nga si Nesthy Petecio
Pormal na nga ginhatag sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) ang promotion kay Petty Officer Second Class (PO2) Nesthy Petecio PCG matapos ang pagdaog sini sang bronze medal sa Paris Olympics 2024.
Ginpatigayon ini sa seremonya sa Monday morning colors sa National Headquarters, Port Area, Manila, Disyembre 2, sa pagpanguna ni PCG Commandant Admiral Ronnie Gil Gavan.
Sa mensahe ni Admiral Gavan, ginpahayag sini nga ang promotion sa Pinoy Olympian ang wala lamang naga-apresyar sa iya kadalag-an sa sports kundi sa dedikasyon sini, disiplina, kag kaalam bilang kabahin sang Coast Guard.
Matandaan nga nakuha ni Petecio ang bronze medal sa women’s boxing 57kg semifinals.
Siya, si Aira Villegas, kag si Carlos Yulo ang nakabulsa sang medalya para sa Pilipinas subong nga Summer Games.
Sang Tokyo Olympics sang 2021, nadala man pauli ni Petecio ang silver medal sa boksing.#
Na-eleher liwat si Abraham “Bambol” Tolentino bilang presidente sang Philippine Olympic Committee (POC).
Magapabilin ini sa posisyon sa masunod nga apat ka tuig matapos nakuha ang 45 ka mga boto sa POC elections batok sa 15 nga nakuha naman sang iya kasumpong nga amo ang baseball chief nga si Chito Loyzaga.
Antes ang eleksyon, ginpadayaw ni Tolentino ang mga kadalag-an sang Pinoy athletes sa idalom sang iya termino.
Lakip diri ang maragtason nga gold medal nga nakuha ni Hidilyn Diaz sa weightlifting sa Tokyo 2020 kag ang duha ka bulawan nga medalya nga nakuha naman ni Carlos Yulo sa gymnastics sa Paris Summer Games sini lang nga 2024.
Ikatatlo na ini nga termino ni Tolentino bilang chief sang Olympic body sang Pilipinas matapos una nga nagpungko sang 2019 sang nagbulos siya sa wala natapos nga termino ni Ricky Vargas paagi sa special election kag sunod nga nagdaog sa regular elections sang 2021.
Sa mga nagboto sa eleksyon sang Olympic Committee, kadam-an ang halin sa national sports associations, may duha nga halin sa Athletes Commission, kag isa halin sa International Olympic Committee.
Ilonggo, gold medalist sa high jump sa Batang Pinoy 2024
𝗣𝗔𝗟𝗔𝗪𝗔𝗡 – Naghatag sang kadungganan ang Ilonggo nga atleta matapos nakuha ang gold medal sa high jump sa nagapadayon nga 2024 Batang Pinoy national championships sa Puerto Princesa City, Palawan.
Ini amo si Franklin Catera sang Tigbauan, Iloilo nga gold medalist man sa Palarang Pambansa.
Ginlutos ni Catera ang 28 ka iban pa nga mga atleta.
Nakarekord ini sang 1.98 meters nga mas mataas sang .03 meters sa iya record sa Palarong Pambansa.
Ang hinampang ang nag-umpisa sang Nobyembre 23 kag magalawig tubtob sa Nobyembre 28.
Alex Eala, nagpanguna sa pagbalik sang Pilipinas sa Billie Jean King Cup
Ginapangunahan sang Pinay tennis star nga si Alex Eala indi lang ang Pilipinas kundi ang Asia Oceania Group III sa pagsulod sa Billie Jean King Cup subong nga semana sa Bahrain.
Magahampang ang Philippine women’s team tubtub sa Nobyembre 27 sa Bahrain Tennis Club sa kapital sang pungsod nga amo ang Manama.
Ang 19-anyos nga si Eala kag ang anay Philippine No.
1 nga si Marian Capadocia amo ang standouts sa grupo nga ginpadala sang pungsod.
Yara man sa team ang players nga naka-base sa US nga sanday Khim Iglupas kag Shaira Rivera nga pareho nga naga-compete sa University of West Alabama varsity squad.
Nabunutan ang Pilipinas sa Pool B kaupod sa Qatar, Nepal, kag Guam.
Kinahanglan nga mangibabaw sila sa Pool B agud nga makaabanse sa playoff para sa promotion kun sa diin atubangon naman ang mangibabaw sa Pool C nga ginabug-usan sang Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Laos, kag Turkmenistan.
Ang winner sa playoffs ang makasulod sa Group II sa 2025.
Nahibaluan nga gin-suspend sang world governing body sang tennis ang Philippine Tennis Association (PHILTA) sang December 2020 bangud sa mismanagement issues.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa wala nakaintra ang Pilipinas sa Billie Jean King Cup kag sa Davis Cup sa masobra apat ka tuig, apang na-reinstate subong ang asosasyon bangud sa pagbag-o sang liderato sa local federation.
Gilas, gintambakan ang Hong Kong, undefeated sa FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers
Napabilin sang Pilipinas nga perpekto ang record sini, 4-0, sa pagtakop sang katapusan nga assignment sa Fiba Asia Cup 2025 Qualifiers sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Gintambakan sang Gilas ang Hong Kong, 93-54, sa ila ikaduha na nga pagkitaay sa sini nga qualifying tournament.
Gin-unahan nanday June Mar Fajardo kag Kai Sotto ang pagpuntos para sa team tubtub nga nalab-ot sang mas bataon nga big man ang panibag-o nga double-double nga 12 points kag 15 rebounds samtang may 14 points kag eight rebounds naman si Fajardo.
Madamo naman ang naham-ot bangud ginasinggitan sang fans nga pahampangon si Dwight Ramos nga ginbangko ni Coach Tim Cone.
Sang ulihi, ginklaro sang coach nga bangud ini sa calf problem nga indi na nila gusto maglala pa.
Nagapanguna ang Gilas sa Group B bangud sa undefeated record sini lakip na ang pag-upset sini sa New Zealand sang nagligad nga gab-i.
Para nga pormal nga maka-qualify ang Gilas sa FIBA Asia Cup sa Saudi sa Agusto 2025, kinahanglan anay nga lutuson sang Tall Blacks ang host nga Chinese Taipei karon sa hapon (Manila time).
EJ Obiena, ginbuksan ang bag-o nga pole vault facility sa llocos Norte
Gina-inagurahan na ang labing-una nga pole vault facility nga natukod sa paninguha sang two-time Olympian kag world no.
Nahamtang ang pasilidad sa sulod sang 12,000-capacity track and field sa Marcos stadium sa Laoag City, Ilocos Norte.
Kahapon sang ginpatigayon ang ribbon-cutting ceremony sa pagpanguna ni Obiena kag Ilocos Norte Gov.
Matthew Manotoc kag gintambungan sang student-athletes halin sa mga eskwelahan sa probinsya.
Gintukod ang facility para malab-ot ang World Athletics standards para sa palaabuton nga mga kumpetisyon sang Filipino athletes.
Magluwas diri, may palaabuton man nga pasilidad sa Tagum, Davao del Norte nga magabukas sa temprano nga bahin sang 2025.
Sa Disyembre 6-9, may yara sang pole vault coaching clinic kag seminar sa Marcos Stadium kag si Emerson nga amay ni EJ kag coach sang national team kag UST high school athletics team amo ang magapanguna sa sessions.
Handum ni Obiena nga maka-produce ang Pilipinas sang dugang nga homegrown pole vault talents nga maga-excel sa mga international competitions rason kun ngaa ginsuguran sini ang pagpatukod sini nga mga facility.
Si Obiena isa ka Asian record holder kag nagpang-apat sa Paris Olympics sini nga tuig.
Wala sini natapos ang 2024 season bangud sa back injury, apang nagalaum nga makabalik liwat sa masunod nga tuig matapos nga nagnubo na ini sa iya anay ikaduha nga pwesto sa world rankings.
Nagapang-apat siya subong sa ranking kasunod kanday Armand Duplantis sang Sweden, Sam Kendricks sang USA, kag Emmanouil Karalis sang Greece.
HISTORIC WIN: Pilipinas, ginlutos ang New Zealand sa labing-una nga tion sa Fiba competition
Sa labing-una nga tion sa hampang sa FIBA, nasarangan sang Gilas Pilipinas nga lutuson ang longtime Oceania basketball powerhouse nga New Zealand.
Nahimo sang national team ang 93-89 nga maragtason nga kadalag-an subong nga gab-i, Nobyembre 21, sa Mall of Asia Arena sa second window sang 2025 Asia Cup Qualifiers.
Nanguna ang all-around performances nanday Justin Brownlee kag Kai Sotto agud ihatag sa mga Pinoy ang matam-is nga kadalag-an matapos masagang ang mga tres nga ginpangbuy-an sang foreign team sa first half.
Ini ang pinakamaayo nga performance ni Sotto sa national team nga may 19 points, 10 rebounds, kag 7 assists.
Naghatag naman si Brownlee sang 26 points, 10 rebounds, 4 assists, kag 2 steals nga amo ang nagpasaka sang record sang Pilipinas sa malimpyo nga 3-0 sa Group B.
Si Sotto man ang nagpaulan sang lima ka sunod-sunod nga puntos sa kritikal nga 16-3 run antes nagsandig ang Gilas kay Brownlee sa fourth period.
Indi man malimtan ang nangin bulig ni Chris Newsome ilabi na ang highlight nga tres nga amo ang naghatag sa Nationals sang 91-84 nga ligwa sa closing minutes sang hampang.
Sa Tall Blacks nga pang-22 sa world ranking, nanguna si Corey Webster nga may 25 points kag 5 assists.
Antes ini nga historic win, apat ka beses nga ginlutos sang New Zealand ang Gilas.
Duha sa sini nga kalutusan ang na-eksperyensyahan sang Gilas diri mismo sa Pilipinas lakip ang 89-80 defeat sa FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament sang 2016 kag ang 88-63 nga tambak sa FIBA World Cup Qualifiers sang 2022.
MATCH DAY: Gilas Pilipinas, maatubang na sa New Zealand karon sa gab-i
Atubangon na sang Gilas Pilipinas karon sa gab-i ang longtime Oceania basketball powerhouse nga New Zealand sa second window sang FIBA Asia Cup 2025 Qualifiers.
7:30 ang game time sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Ginahaylo ang Filipino basketball fans nga magsuksok sang “blue” bilang suporta sa national team kag bilang paghingalit sa homecourt advantage batok sa Tall Blacks nga pang-22 sa FIBA ranking.
Sa final 12-man lineup nga gin-release sang Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP), nakasaad nga magahampang para sa Gilas team sanday Justin Brownlee, June Mar Fajardo, Dwight Ramos, Kai Sotto, Scottie Thompson, Chris Newsome, Calvin Oftana, Japeth Aguilar, CJ Perez, Kevin Quiambao, Carl Tamayo, kag Mason Amos.
Wala pa naumpawan sa knee injury ang 6-foot-10 nga si AJ Edu kag indi pa liwat makahampang matapos nga na-miss man sini ang first window sang Asia Cup Qualifiers kag Olympic Qualifying Tournament.
Wala man sa pinal nga lineup sanday Jamie Malonzo nga may injury kag si Ange Kouame nga gin-tap ni Coach Tim Cone bilang backup kay Brownlee.
Patas ang Pilipinas kag New Zealand sa Group B nga may 2-0 win-loss records.
Ini ang ika ika-lima nga pagkitaay sa FIBA tournament halin sang 2016 kun sa diin wala gid nakaagi-daog ang Gilas.
Kinahanglan nga makuha sang Pilipinas ang isa sa duha ka nagapanguna nga pwesto sa grupo para nga maka-qualify sa FIBA Asia Cup 2025 nga natalana sa Jeddah, Saudi Arabia sa Agusto 5-17, 2025.
Balantayan kun masustiner sang Cleveland Cavaliers ang ila matinlo nga 15-0 record sa ila pag-atubangay sang defending champion nga Boston Celtics alas otso buwas sa aga, Nobyembre 20, oras sa Pilipinas.
Semi-finals sa Eastern Conference sa NBA playoffs sang nagligad nga tuig sang katapusan nga nagkit-anay ang duha ka teams.
Sang amo nga tion, madamo sang injuries sa roster sang Cavs kag ginlutos sang Celtics sa lima ka hampang tubtub nga dalayon nga naka-abanse ang Boston sa finals kag nakuha ang NBA crown batok sa Dallas Mavericks.
Apang impresibo subong ang hulag sang Cavaliers nga wala pa sang kalutusan sa 15 ka mga hampang sa regular season sa idalom sang bag-o nga coach nga si Kenny Atkinson.
Excited na sila sa rematch suno kay Atkinson apisar nga sila ang pangayaw bangud may homecourt advantage sanday Jayson Tatum sa Boston Garden.
Ang katapusan nga ginlutos sang Cavs amo ang Charlotte Hornets, 128-114, kahapon sang aga apisar nga wala si All-Star guard Donovan Mitchell nga amo ang ila scoring leader.
Ang Cavs amo ang ika-apat ka team sa maragtas sang NBA nga nag-umpisa sang season nga may record nga 15-0.
Ini nga winning streak amo na ang pinakamalaba sa 55 ka tuig nga history sang Cavs sa liga nga lapaw pa sa 13-win runs nga nahimo sang team sang yara pa sa ila ang subong Lakers superstar nga si LeBron James.
Malayo pa ang ila lalagson sa record nga iya sang Golden State Warriors nanday Stephen Curry nga may 24-0 record sang 2015-2016 season.#
Kai Sotto, may clearance na, pwede na maka-upod sa hampang sang Gilas
Ginhatagan na sang clearance ang seven-foot-three nga si Kai Sotto nga makaupod sa paghampang sa Gilas Pilipinas batok sa New Zealand kag sa Hong Kong sa FIBA Asia Cup Qualifiers.
Antes sini, napaidalom ang big man sa concussion protocols sang Japan B League matapos naigu sa ulo sa matchup sang Koshigaya Alphas batok sa Yokohama sang nagligad nga semana.
Daku nga bulig ang presensya ni Kai sa Gilas bangud ang New Zealand ang magahampang nga may seven-footer kag may 6-foot-10 players.
Nagasalig man si Coach Tim sa chemistry nanday Sotto kag Fajardo kag makahimo makapahuway ang isa kag buslan anay sang isa agud maka-augment sa iban nila nga mas manubo nga players.
Ini ang kulang suno sa coach sang na-injure man si Kai sa semifinal match sang Gilas batok sa Brazil sa Olympic Qualifying Tournament.
Sa pihak nga bahin, indi pa gihapon subong sigurado ang kondisyon sang 6-foot-10 nga si AJ Edu bangud wala pa sini natapos ang strength training kag treatment sa tuo nga tuhod nga nakaangkon sang injury sa hampang man sa Japan.
May break ang Gilas karon sa hapon, kag may duha pa ka practice antes ang Huwebes kun sa diin atubangon sini ang New Zealand (2-0) samtang sa Domingo naman ang Hong Kong (0-2) sa kapareho nga venue sa Mall of Asia Arena.
Basketball: Masarangan na ayhan sang Gilas Pilipinas nga makadaog vs New Zealand?
Siling nila, “the third time is the charm” … apang paano kun pang-lima gali?
Apat ka beses na nga nag-atubangay ang Pilipinas kag ang New Zealand sa FIBA competitions halin sang 2016.
Gin-ako ni Coach Tim Cone nga takladon kag mabudlay ang banas sang Pilipinas sa second window sang FIBA Asia Cup 2025 Qualifiers apang nagapati man ini nga masarangan na sang national team nga makadaog batok sa pangayaw nga New Zealand.
Una ginplastar ni Cone ang homecourt advantage sang Gilas ilabi na bangud gina-antisipar ang suporta sang linibo ka basketball fans para sa Philippine team.
Pang-22 ang New Zealand ukon Tall Blacks sa world ranking kag kilala sa ila physical plays samtang pang-34 naman ang Gilas.
Sa apat ka beses nga nagkitaay ang duha ka teams sa FIBA tournament, wala gid nakaagi-daog ang Pilipinas halin pa sa 2016 FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament nga ginhampang man sa Mall of Asia Arena sa idalom anay ni Coach Tab Baldwin.
Hulyo 2022 sang ulihi nga nagkitaay ang duha ka teams sa FIBA Asia Cup sa Jakarta, Indonesia kun sa diin gintambakan sang New Zealand ang Gilas, 92-75.
Kumpyansa man subong si Cone sa team sang Filipino players nga iya ginpili.
Pareho nga matinlo nga 2-0 ang record sang duha ka teams.
Mataas man ang panan-awan sa Gilas matapos gin-upset ang world no.
9 nga Latvia sa Olympic qualifying tournament, kag nangin daku man nga tunok sa Georgia kag Brazil sa amo nga tournament para sa Olympiada.
Daku man nga pagpanghangkat sa Gilas ang injuries kaangay kay Kai Sotto nga napaidalom sa concussion protocol; si AJ Edu nga may knee injury sa Japan B.League; kag si Jamie Malonzo nga indi gid makahampang bangud sa calf injury nga naangkon sang Abril.#
Boxing: Mike Tyson, ginlutos sang YouTuber nga si Jake Paul sa iya pagbalik sa heavyweight
Napaslawan ang heavyweight icon nga si Mike Tyson sa iya pagbalik sa ring batok sa Youtuber-turned-prizefighter nga si Jake Paul nga 31-anyos nga mas bataon ipaanggid sa iya.
Nagtapos ang walo ka rounds sa AT&T Stadium sa Arlington, USA, sa unanimous decision nga nagapabor sa 27-anyos nga fighter, 80-72, 79-73 kag 79-73.
Ginhingalitan ni Paul ang paggamit sang iya speed agud nga dominahon ang 58-anyos nga former undisputed heavyweight champion ilabi na sa third round kun sa diin maathag ang iya pagpaulan sang mga sumbag.
Sang weigh-in pa lamang, nangin mainit na ang tensyon sa tunga sang duha sang gintampuyong ni Tyson si Paul rason nga nagpromisa ang mas bataon nga fighter nga i-iknockout gid sini ang iya kasumpong apang wala man natigayon sa adlaw mismo sang sambuwa.
70,000 ka boxing fans ang naglantaw sang live sa amo nga kontrobersyal nga hampang.
Samtang nagahilapit ang pagbagting sang manugtapos na ang ikawalo nga round, nag-bow pa si Paul bilang pagpakita sang pagtahod kay Tyson nga isa sa pinakaamaayo nga boksidor sa kalibutan.
Base sa final statistics, 18 lang sa 97 punches ni Tyson ang nakatupa samtang 278 punches naman ang nahimo ni Paul kag 78 diri ang nakaigu sa boxing icon.
19-anyos na ang nagligad halin sang katapusan nga naghampang sa professional boxing si Tyson kag ginaalegar nga nagpasugot siya sa matchup batok sa bataon nga YouTuber bangud sa bayad nga 20-million USD ukon P1.17-billion.
Antes ang pagretiro ni Tyson sa propesyonal nga boksing sang 2005, may impresibo siya nga record nga 50-6 nga may 44 knockouts.
Pinaka-kilala siya sa iya paghari sa heavyweight division sang late 1980s.
Una na nga gin-schedule ang ila hampang ni Paul sang Hulyo apang gin-postpone bangud sa medical treatment kay Tyson bangud sa pagsuka sini sang dugo bangud sa bleeding ulcer.
Halin sa iya una nga away batok sa isa man ka YouTuber sang 2018, nalakip sa mga naatubang ni Paul amo ang isa ka basketball player, mixed martial arts fighters kag iban man nga professional boxers.
Antes ang pag-atubang kay Tyson, sa 11 ka mga hampang sini, 10 ang iya nadag-an kun sa diin pito ang na-knockout.
Mike Tyson, 58, handa na sa pagbalik sa ring vs YouTuber nga si Jake Paul
Kumpyansa ang 58-anyos nga former heavyweight champion nga si Mike Tyson sa pagbalik sini sa ring kadungan sang ginakalangkagan nga showdown batok sa 27-anyos nga si Jake Paul.
Patigayunon ang walo ka two-minute rounds boxing match sa AT&T Stadium sa Arlington, USA buwas sa aga oras sa Pilipinas (Nobyembre 16).
Suno kay Tyson ukon kilala nga “Iron Mike”, apisar sang iya edad, mas mabakod siya subong kag nagsugod siya sa training halin sang nagpasugot siya sa sambuwa.
Retirado na siya sa professional boxing halin sang 2005 kag may impresibo nga record nga 50-6 nga may 44 knockouts kag pinaka-kilala sa iya paghari sa heavyweight division sang late 1980s.
Katapusan siya nga nagsaka sa ring sang 2020 sa isa ka exhibition match batok sa isa man ka boxing legend nga si Roy Jones, Jr.
Kontrobersyal ang ila pag-atubangangay sang YouTube star-turned-boxer nga si Paul.
Una na nga gin-schedule ini nga hampang sang Hulyo 2024 apang gin-postpone bangud sa medical treatment kay Tyson bangud sa pagsuka sini sang dugo bangud sa bleeding ulcer.
31-anyos nga mas bataon si Paul kay Tyson nga kilala man sa professional boxing career sa super-middle kag cruiserweight.
Sa 11 fights, 10 ang iya nadag-an kun sa diin pito ang na-knockout.
Gin-anunsyo sang San Antonio Spurs nga padayon nga naga-recover ang ila head coach nga si Gregg Popovich matapos nagsuprer sang mild stroke sini lang nga bulan.
Antes ang hampang sang Spurs batok sa Minnesota Timberwolves, na-stroke ang coach kag wala na ini nakaupod sa hampang sang team.
Nagapaidalom na subong sa rehabilitation program ang 75-anyos nga coach apang wala pa sang timeline nga ginpaguwa kun san-o siya makabalik.
Si Popovich ang nangin coach sang Spurs halin sang 1996-97 season kag nagpanguna sa ila sa lima ka NBA championships.
Kilala siya nga three-time NBA Coach of the Year kag nangin coach man sang Team USA sang nakuha ang gold medal sa 2020 Tokyo Olympics.
Filipina skater Margielyn Didal, nakahimo sang successful comeback sa event sa Argentina matapos ang injury
Nakahimo sang iya madinalag-on nga pagbalik ang Filipina skater Margielyn Didal sa isa ka kompetisyon sa Buenos Aires, Argentina matapos ang malawig nga pagpahuway.
Nangibabaw ang Tokyo Olympian kag 2018 Asian Games gold medalist Margielyn Didal sa Buenos Aires Conquest sa University of Buenos Aires Law School, sa iya pinakauna nga event humalin sang nagsuprir ini sang ankle injury sang October 2022.
Ginpierde niya ang top female skaters sa kalibutan kalakip na ang Argentinian nga si Aldana Bertran kag Brazilian Leticia Bufoni sa qualifying round, kag isa pa ka Argentinian nga si Camila Cáceres sa semi finals.
Gin-atubang niya ang Dutch skateboarder nga si Roos Zwetsloot sa finals kun sa diin gindala pauli sang Filipino athlete ang championship trophy.
Gilas Pilipinas, nagahanda na sa duha ka hampang sa FIBA Asia Cup qualifiers
Magatipon na liwat ang Gilas Pilipinas para sa panibag-o nga misyon nga lutuson ang New Zealand kag ang Hong Kong sa FIBA Asia Cup qualifiers.
Sa pagpanguna sa gihapon ni Coach Tim Cone, magahanas ang national team sa Inspire Sports Academy sa Laguna para sa preparasyon sa una nga duha ka hampang nga diri mismo sa patigayunon sa Pilipinas.
Sa Nobyembre 21, atubangon sang Gilas ang world no.
22 nga New Zealand nga may pareho nga 2-0 record.
Tatlo ka adlaw ang makaligad, may rematch ini sa Hong Kong nga may 0-2 record subong kag una naman nga gintambakan sang Gilas sang Pebrero sa skor nga 94-64.
Sa lista sang 15 players ni Cone, nalakip si AJ Edu nga naka-recover na subong matapos nga wala gid nakahampang sa first window sang FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament bangud sa injury.
Yara man ang former Ateneo big man nga si Ange Kouame nga maga-upod kay Justin Brownlee bilang naturalized player.
Ini ang iya una nga pagbalik sa Gilas sa sulod sang duha ka tuig matapos ang katapusan sini nga hampang sa FIBA World Cup Asian Qualifiers sang 2022.
Pamilyar na ang iban nga nawong nga nabilin sa team nga ginpili ni Cone nga amo sanday PBA stars June Mar Fajardo, Scottie Thompson, Japeth Aguilar, Calvin Oftana, Chris Newsome, CJ Perez, kag Jamie Malonzo.
Magahatag-pwersa man sa team ang players halin sa Japan B.
League nga sanday Edu, Dwight Ramos, kag Kai Sotto.
Halin naman sa Korean Basketball League, yara si Carl Tamayo; kag magabulig man ang UAAP stars nga sanday Kevin Quiambao kag Mason Amos sang La Salle.
Ini ang una nga hampang sang Gilas apat ka bulan matapos ang maragtason nga 89-80 nga upset batok sa World No.
6 nga Latvia sa FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament kag ginkabos sang duha gid lamang ka hampang para maka-qualify kuntani sa Paris Olympics.#
NBA: Kevin Durant, indi makahampang sa masunod nga sinemana bangud sa calf strain
Indi makahampang ang Phoenix Suns star nga si Kevin Durant sa masunod nga duha ka semana sa NBA bangud sa left calf strain nga nagakinahanglan pa sang reevaluation.
Naangkon sini ang injury sa 114-113 nga kadalag-an sang Suns batok sa host nga Dallas Mavericks.
Sa sini nga hampang, naka-26 puntos si KD sa sulod sang 37 minutos.
Antes ang Paris Olympics kun sa diin nakuha sang Team USA ang gold medal, nagsuprer man ang 14-time All-Star forward sang kaangay man nga left calf strain.
Daku ang nangin papel sang 36-anyos nga veteran forward sa 8-1 record sang Phoenix subong nga season.
Naka-average siya sang 27.6 points kag 6.6 rebounds.
Sa sini man nga season, nakahimo man ini sang record bilang eighth player sa NBA history nga naglapaw na sa 29,000 career points.
TNT, nadepensahan ang korona sa Governors’ Cup; Jayson Castro, nangin Finals MVP
Madinalag-on nga nadepensahan sang TNT Tropang Giga ang ila nga korona sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) Governors’ Cup.
Ginlutos sini ang Barangay Ginebra sa Game 6, 95-85, sa Araneta Coliseum sa Quezon City sa atubang sang masobra 14,600 fans, Nobyembre 8.
Ini man ang nagamarka sang ika-10 nga PBA title sang squad sa idalom ni Manny V.
Sa pagtakop sang hampang, gindayaw man ni Coach Chot Reyes ang Ginebra sa pagpanguna ni Coach Tim Cone bangud sa masandukot nga serye kun sa diin una nakuha sang Tropang Giga ang kadalag-an sa una kag ikaduha nga game, nagbalos ang Gin Kings sa 3rd kag 4th games, apang nagbalos liwat ang TNT sa Game 5 kag gintapos sa Game 6.
Sa Gin Kings naman, nangin impresibo ang PBA rookie nga si RJ Abarrientos nga may career-high nga 31 points samtang nalimitahan naman sa 16 points, six rebounds, four assists, kag one steal ang three-time Best Import nga si Justin Brownlee.
Ginhingadlan nga Finals MVP ang 38-anyos nga TNT veteran guard nga si Jayson Castro ukon si “The Blur” nga naka-13 points, six assists kag two rebounds sa 27 minutos sini nga hampang sa Game 6.
Three-time Finals MVP na si Castro sa iya bug-os nga karera sa PBA apang ini ang una nga bes nga nagdaog siya nga isahanon bangud sa nagligad, duha sila nga winner ni Jimmy Alapag sa TNT title wins sang 2011 Philippine Cup kag Commissioner’s Cup.
NBA: Jokic, Nuggets, gindaho sa Thunder ang una nga kapaslawan subong nga season
Kulang sa tawo apang nasarangan sang Denver Nuggets nga mapatilaw kay Shai Gilgeous-Alexander kag sa Oklahoma City Thunder ang una nga mapait nga kapaslawan subong nga regular season sa National Basketball Association (NBA).
Nanguna sa 124-122 win sang former champions ang triple-double sang three-time MVP nga si Nikola Jokic nga may 23 points, 20 rebounds, kag 16 assists nga amo ang nagtapos sang perpekto nga record sang Thunder (7-1).
Ini man ang ikaapat na nga triple-double sang 29-anyos nga Serbian superstar subong nga season.
Naka-skor naman si Russell Westbrook sang 29 points, may tag-24 puntos sanday Michael Porter Jr.
kag Christian Braun, samtang may 10 points kag three blocks naman si Peyton Watson lakip na ang game-sealing block isa ka segundo ang nabilin sa game.
Ini nga kadalag-an amo man ang nagtapos sang four-game head-to-head losing streak sang Denver batok sa Oklahoma City.
Naghampang sanday Jokic nga wala si Jamal Murray (concussion protocol) sa ikatatlo na nga tion, kag wala man si Aaron Gordon nga indi man makahampang sa masunod nga sinemana bangud sa right calf strain.
Sa Thunder naman, may 29 points, 10 rebounds kag nine assists si Jalen Williams samtang si Gilgeous-Alexander ang naka-skor sang 28 puntos.
Patas na subong ang Oklahoma City sa Suns kag Warriors sa number 1 spot sa West nga may 7-1 record samtang nagsaka naman ang Denver sa 5-3.#
PBA: TNT, gintambakan ang Ginebra, mas nagahilapit na sa isa pa gid ka Governors’ Cup crown
Isa ka daog na lang ang kinahanglan sang defending champions nga TNT Tropang Giga agud nga makuha liwat ang kampyonato sa PBA Governor’s Cup.
Abanse na sa serye ang team sa idalom ni Coach Chot Reyes, 3-2, matapos gintambakan ang Barangay Ginebra, 99-72,sa Game 5 sa best-of-seven finals sa Smart Araneta Coliseum.
Matapos gindomina ang una nga quarter, 26-20, nagpaulan ang TNT sang 30 points nga tuman ka layo sa 13 nga nahimo sang Gin Kings nga amo ang nagtapos sa first half sa score nga 56-33.
Nagdangat sa 36 ang pinakadaku nga abanse sang team sa second half, 84-48, matapos ang 4-pointer ni RR Pogoy sa ika-10 nga minuto sang fourth quarter.
Nagapati si Coach Reyens nga ang pagpabilin sang ila pagka-kalmado batok sa dalagku nga Ginebra stars kag Coach Tim Cone amo ang nagpadaog sa ila sa Game 5.
Ang Best Import nga si Rondae Hollis-Jefferson ang nakahatag sang 16 points, 10 boards, three assists, kag block para sa TNT; samtang si Pogoy naman ang may 16 points nga gindugangan ni Calvin Oftana sang 15 points, eight rebounds, kag two assists.
Sa pihak nga bahin, may tag-13 puntos naman sanday Scottie Thompson kag LA Tenorio para sa Ginebra, samtang may 10 puntos naman si Stephen Holt.
Diri man sa Game 5 nakit-an ang isa sa worst performances sang three-time Best Import nga si Justin Brownlee nga may otso puntos nga malayo sa 34 puntos sini sa Game 4.
6 points ang nahimo sini sa first half antes ang dos puntos sa second half.
Nagguwa ini sa game tatlo ka minutos ang nabilin sa third quarter kag wala na nagbalik.
Ini ang labing-una nga tion nga wala siya nakalab-ot sa double-figure scoring halin sang nagsulod siya sa PBA sang 2016 suno sa league chief statistician nga si Fidel Mangonon.
Matabo ang Game 6 sang Finals sa Biyernes.
Aguilar 5, Pessumal 4, Ahanmisi 1, Pinto 0, Adamos 0.
NBA: Anthony Davis, nakaangkon sang injury, nag-ako sa mga kapaltahan sa hampang sang Lakers
Nabutang sa alang-alang ang record sang Los Angeles Lakers sa temprano nga bahin sang regular season matapos nakaangkon sang injury ang isa sa leading stars sini nga si Anthony Davis.
Naglala ang left foot injury ni Davis sa fourth quarter sang hampang sang Lakers batok sa Detroit Pistons sang nagligad nga Martes (Manila time).
Sa amo man nga hampang nakitaan sang maathag nga problema ang depensa sang Lakers nga gintambakan sang Detroit, 115-103, matapos nakontrol sang Pistons ang first half nga may 67 puntos.
Halin sa pagbukas sang season, may three-game winning streak ang Los Angeles apang nalutos sa apat na ka sunod-sunod nga mga hampang apisar sang dalayawon nga opensa nanday Davis kag LeBron James.
Naga-average si Davis sang 32.6 points per game kag may 37 puntos sa ulihi nga hampang batok sa Detroit.
Gin-ako ni Davis nga may nakit-an man ini nga kapaltahan sa ila team nga daw indi sila kilalahay samtang nagahampang kag kinahanglan nila nga islan ini agud nga may lauman man nga maayo subong nga season.
9:00 subong nga aga (PHT) magaatubang ang Lakers sa Grizzlies (4-4) sa Tennessee, USA.
PH National Para Games, magabalik na matapos ang lima ka tuig nga pahuway
Matapos nagpahuway sang lima ka tuig, magabalik na ang Philippine National Para Games nga may masobra sa 900 participants nga magahampang sa Nobyembre 11 tubtob 14 sa Rizal Memorial Sports Complex sa Manila kag PhilSports Complex sa Pasig City.
Ulihi nga ginpatigayon ang Para Games sang 2019 sa Malolos, Bulacan antes ini ginpaiway bangud sa COVID-19.
Magapakigbahin ang 72 ka mga syudad ka probinsya nga maga- kick off paagi sa classification seminar sa Nobyembre 7 kag pagasundan sang classification proper para sa Para athletes sa Nobyembre 8 tubtob 10.
NBA, nagpahuway anay sa mga hampang kadungan sang US elections
Ginpadayon sang National Basketball Association (NBA) ang pagsunod sa tradisyon nga limpyuhon ang schedule subong nga adlaw kadungan sang Election Day sa Estados Unidos sang Amnerika.
Ini agud mahatagan sang ligwa ang mga empleyado sang liga, team workers, coaches, kag players nga gamiton ang ila nga kinamatarong nga magpili sang ila kandidato.
Madamo man nga prominente nga basketball coaches kaangay kanday Warriors head coach Steve Kerr kag Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich ang nagtulod kay Commissioner Adam Silver nga indi anay magpatigayon sang mga hampang subong nga adlaw.
Sa pihak nga bahin, si Bucks guard Damian Lillard ang nagpangabay man sa mga botante nga dapat tungdan ang ila responsibilidad bisan matapos na ang eleksyon.
Get informed,” pahayag sini sa recorded interview nga gin-ere sang NBA sang nagligad nga semana.
Nagpasakop naman ang liga sa National Vote Early Day sang Oct.
Walo man ka NBA teams ang naggamit sang ila pasilidad bilang polling locations ukon ballot drop boxes.
Ang mga players kaangay kanday Celtics G Jaylen Brown, Bucks G Damian Lillard, Wizards F Kyle Kuzma kag Hawks F Larry Nance Jr.
ang nagpakigbahin man sa public service announcements nga nagahaylo sa publiko nga magboto.
Nahibaluan nga may mga espesyal nga okasyon lamang nga wala sang naka-schedule nga hampang sa liga.
Lakip ang Thanksgiving kag Christmas Eve sa holiday-related days nga may break ang NBA apang gindugang diri ang Election Day sang 2022 kag ginpadayon man sang nagligad nga tuig.#
Karl Eldrew Yulo, nakabulsa sang dugang nga gold medals sa Thailand gymnastics meet
Nagasalalampaw nga gold medals ang nakuha sang Pinoy gymnast nga si Karl Eldrew Yulo sa 3rd JRC Artistic Gymnastics Stars Championships sa Bangkok, Thailand.
Magluwas sa una sini nabulsa nga bulawan nga medalya sa individual all-around, nagkampyon man ang 16-anyos sa Men’s Artistic Gymnastics (MAG) Junior floor exercise, still rings, kag vault events.
Nagdangat tanan sa anum ang iya natipon nga medalya lakip ang isa pa gid ka silver sa all-around team event.
Ang iban pa nga Pinoy gymnasts nga multi-gold medalists sa kumpetisyon amo sanday Jacob Alvarez, Andrei de Leon, Prince Sumabal, Chelsea Lynn Hong, kag Ma.
Si Karl Eldrew amo ang manghod sang two-time Olympic gold medalist nga si Carlos Edriel Yulo.
Sang damlag lang, gin-anunsyo nga nagahanas na ini kaupod ang manghod nila nga si Elaiza sa idalom sang Japanese coach nga si Munehiro Kugimiya nga long-time coach ni Caloy.
Una na nga ginkumpirma sang Gymnastics Association of the Philippines (GAP) nga isa man si Karl Eldrew sa ginalantaw nga updon sa 2028 Los Angeles Summer Games nga kun matabo makaupod sa iya magulang nga si Caloy nga magabalik naman para sa iya ikatatlo nga Olympiada.
NBA: Joem Embiid, ginapahayag nangkumpronta kag nangtiklod sang columnist
Gina-imbestigaran sang National Basketball Association (NBA) ang isa ka insidente kun sa diin ginaalegar nagpangtiklod sang columnist ang Philadelphia 76ers superstar nga si Joel Embiid samtang yara sa locker room.
Ginapahayag nga natabo ang kumprontasyon matapos nalutos ang 76ers sa kamot sang Memphis Grizzlies, 124-107.
Nag-ugat ang isyu sa ginsulat sang Philadelphia Inquirer columnist nga si Marcus Hayes kun sa diin ginmensyonar ang bata ni Embiid kag ang napatay sini anay nga utod — pareho nga ginhingadlan nga si Arthur — samtang ginakwestyon man ang pagka-propesyunal sang former MVP kag ikasarang sini nga ipabilin ang ikaayong lawas.
Ginaalegar nga sang nagsulod ang reporters agud mag-interview sa players, ginsukmaan ni Embiid ang columnist kag nagpaandam sang kunsekwensya pananglitan liwaton sini ang pagmensyonar sa iya bata kag utod.
Sa inisyal nga reports, nag-sorry pa ang journalist apang nagpanginit ang basketball star bangud indi ini ang una nga bes nga natabo ini.
Sang gintiklod na sini si Hayes, didto na kag nagpatunga ang security guard.
Ang hampang sang 76ers batok sa Grizzlies amo na ang ikalima nga sunod-sunod nga game subong nga regular season nga wala nakaupod si Embiid bangud sa iya left knee injury.
Pareho sila ni Paul George (may bone bruise sa wala nga tuhod) nga wala pa nakahampang sa imbukada sang season.
Si Embiid nga amo ang 2023 NBA Most Valuable Player ang nagpaidalom sa operasyon sa wala nga tuhod matapos ang injury sang Enero rason nga nalimitahan lamang sa 39 games sang nagligad nga season.
Nakabalik siya sang Abril kag nakaupod sa anum ka games sang Philadelphia sa first-round sa playoffs batok sa New York Knicks.
Ginbuligan man sini ang Team USA nga makadaog sang gold medal sa Paris Olympics apisar sang natabo nga injury.
Nalubong ang Sixers sa 1-4 nga record sa pagbukas sang regular season subong nga tuig.#
SERIES TIED: Brownlee, Holt, nagpanguna sa back-to-back wins sang Ginebra vs TNT
Nagpatas na sa 2-2 ang serye sa best-of-seven finals sa PBA Season 49 Governors’ Cup matapos ang back-to-back wins sang Barangay Ginebra batok sa defending champions nga TNT Tropang Giga.
Nakabalik na sa orihinal nga porma sa opensa si Justin Brownlee sa 106-92 win sang Gin Kings sa Game 4 sa Smart Araneta Coliseum sa Cubao subong nga gab-i.
Magluwas sa duha, sanday Maverick Ahanmisi kag Japeth Aguilar ang pareho nga may tag-18 puntos para sa Gin Kings.
Hulom naman sa hampang ang recently-crowned Best Import nga si Rondae Hollis-Jefferson nga amo man ang nagpanguna sa TNT nga may 28 points, nine rebounds, four assists, kag two steals.
Daku naman ang nahimo ni Calvin Oftana para sa team nga may 26 points kun sa diin 20 ang nabubo sa first half antes nalimitahan sa sais puntos sa second half.
Natalana ang Game 5 sa Miyerkules, Nobyembre 6, sa pareho nga venue.
NBA: Cavaliers, may anum na ka sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an sa regular season
Nagapabilin nga matinlo ang record sang Cleveland Cavaliers matapos ang ikaanum nga sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an subong nga regular season sa NBA.
Nanguna sa Cavs si Darius Garland nga may 25 points kag Donovan Mitchell nga may 22 points sa 120-109 win batok sa pangayaw nga Orlando Magic.
Ang 6-0 nga record sang Cleveland sa pagbukas sang season ang nagatupong na sa pinakamaayo nga imbukada nga performance sang franchise sang 2016-2017.
Ang kadalag-an sang Cavs kag bag-o sini nga coach nga si Kenny Atkinson amo naman ang naghatag sa Magic sang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga kalutusan.
Nagpanguna sa Orlando si Jalen Suggs nga may career-high 28 points, Franz Wagner kag Tristan da Silva nga may tag-17 kag si Moritz Wagner nga may 14.
Wala nakaupod sa Magic ang All-Star forward nga si Paolo Banchero bangud sa iya injury sa hampang batok sa Chicago Bulls.
Natalana ini nga i-evaluate liwat sa masunod nga sinemana kag indi pa sigurado kun san-o makabalik.
Wala man sa Magic si Goga Bitadze bangud sa tendon strain sa wala nga tiil kag si Wendell Carter Jr.
8:00 subong nga aga ang masunod nga hampang sang Cleveland sa Eastern Conference batok sa Milwaukee Bucks (1-4).
NBA: Thunder, gintambakan ang Blazers, wala pa sang kalutusan subong nga season
Nagsaka na sa 5-0 ang matinlo nga record sang Oklahoma City Thunder sa NBA regular season subong nga tuig.
Ini matapos ginlutos ang host nga Portland Trail Blazers, 137-114, sa pagpanguna ni Shai Gilgeous-Alexander nga may 30 points, seven rebounds kag six assists.
Nagdugang si Jalen Williams sang 22 points, five rebounds, four assists kag four steals sa amo nga hampang nga amo ang ikalima nga sunod-sunod nga pagdaog sang Oklahoma City sa pagbukas sang season.
Wala sa starting line-up sanday Aaron Wiggins kag Cason Wallace apang pareho nga naka-13 points samtang si Isaiah Joe naman ang may 12 kag may 11 si Ousmane Dieng para sa Thunder.
Ini man ang pang-13 nga sunod-sunod nga hampang nga ginlutos sang Thunder ang Trail Blazers sa ila pagkit-anay sa NBA.
Sang nagligad nga season, isa sa ila hampang ang nagtakop sa 139-77.
Ang 62 puntos nga abanse ang nalakip sa ika-lima sa pinakadaku nga abanse sa hampang sa NBA history.
Nagpanguna naman sa Portland si Jerami Grant nga may 17 points kag Deandre Ayton kag Rayan Rupert nga may tag-14.
Taklaron pa ang banas sang Trail Blazers nga nagsulod sa season nga may apat na ka kalutusan sa anum ka mga hampang.
Sunod nga atubangon sang Thunder 10:30 subong nga aga ang LA Clippers, samtang 10:00 sa aga man maga-atubang ang Trail Blazers sa Phoenix Suns.
NBA: Paolo Banchero, injured, indi pa sigurado kun san-o liwat makahampang sa Magic
Nakaangkon sang oblique injury kag indi pa sigurado kun san-o liwat makabalik sa hampang ang Orlando Magic forward nga si Paolo Banchero.
Suno sa Magic, iga-evaluate liwat ang kondisyon sang 21-anyos nga basketball star sa apat tubtub anum ka semana.
Nakuha sini ang injury sa fourth quarter sa hampang sang Orlando batok sa Chicago Bulls kun sa diin nalutos ang Magic, 102-99.
Si Banchero ang nagapanguna sa ila team sa scoring (29 points per game) kag assists (5.6) matapos ang nauna nga lima ka games subong nga season.
Sa imbukada nga hampang sa pagbukas sang regular season, may 116-97 win ang Magic batok sa Miami Heat kun sa diin may 33 points kag 11 rebounds si Banchero.
May career-high 50 points man ini sa 119-115 win sang Magic batok sa Indiana Pacers nga amo ang naghimo sa iya nga second-youngest player sa NBA history nga naka-50 points, 10 rebounds and five assists sa isa lamang ka hampang (sunod kay LeBron James sang 2005).#
NBA legend Yao Ming, nag-resign na bilang head sang Chinese basketball
Nagpanaog na sa pwesto bilang head sang Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) ang NBA legend nga si Yao Ming bangud napigawan gid ini sa performance sang national team.
Pito ka tuig nga gin-uyatan sang former Rockets star ang amo nga posisyon apisar nga nag-retiro na siya sa paghampang sang basketball sang 2011.
Base sa interview kay Yao sa state news agency nga Xinhua, nag-resign siya bangud wala gid nakalab-ot sa “expectations” ang performances kag mga resulta sang hampang sang national team.
Antes sini, pila ka beses na nga kritikal ang 44-anyos sa men’s national team kag gintawag pa sini anay ang ila players nga “slackers” kag nagpahayag man nga malayo sila katama sa pinakamaayo nga teams sa kalibutan.
Sang wala sila nakasulod sa 2024 Paris Olympics, una man nga ginpahayag ni Yao sang nagligad nga tuig nga akuon niya ang bug-os nga responsibilidad.
Sunod man nga ginkumpirma sang CBA ang paghalin sini sa pwesto kag nagpaathag nga ginhimo ang desisyon matapos ang “careful consideration and based on considerations for the development of China’s basketball and personal planning.”
Antes ini nga development, duha ka magkasunod nga interesante nga hampang nga nagkitaay ang China kag ang Gilas Pilipinas nga ginsundan gid sang Pinoy basketball fans.
Sang FIBA World Cup 2023, ginlutos sang Gilas ang China, 96-75, nga amo lamang ang isahanon nga kadalag-an sang Pilipinas sa tournament.
Nanguna ang Utah Jazz kag Filipino-American star nga si Jordan Clarkson nga may 34 points sa amo nga kadalag-an nga una man nga daog sang Pilipinas batok sa China sa senior level sa FIBA-sanctioned tournament halin sang 2014 FIBA Asia Cup.
Pagkasunod nga bulan, liwat nga nahuy-an ang China sa atubang mismo sang Chinese fans sang ginlutos sila liwat sang Gilas Pilipinas sa semifinals sang men’s basketball sa Asian Games.
Nagbangon ang Gilas halin sa 20-puntos nga abanse, kag ginpasulod ni Justin Brownlee ang tres 24 segundos ang nabilin sa hampang nga amo ang nagpabor sa Pilipinas, 77-76, tubtub nga nakasulod ini sa finals kag dalayon nga nakuha ang gold medal sa Asiad.#
Longtime import sang Meralco nga si Allen Durham, nagretiro na sa PBA
Nagretiro na sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) ang isa sa pinakamaayo nga imports nga si Allen Durham matapos ang isa ka dekada man nga pagpakita sang abilidad sa basketball sa Pilipinas.
Kilala si Durham nga three-time Best Import awardee sa idalom sang Meralco Bolts nga patas sa awards nga nakuha sang Ginebra star nga si Justin Brownlee nga kilala man nga iya pinakadaku nga rival sa court.
Pahayag ni Durham, nagbiya na siya sa PBA bilang pagpanghanda sa dalayon gid sini nga pagretiro sa basketball sa masunod nga tuig.
Si Durham ang nanguna sa Bolts sa ila nauna nga tatlo ka PBA finals appearances apang ginakabos gid pirme batok kay Brownlee kag sa Ginebra.
Siya ang best reinforcement sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig partikular sang 2016, 2017, kag 2020 editions sang Governor’s Cup.
Sini lang nga tuig, may deja vu nga natabo sang gintapos ni Durham ang iya PBA career sa kamot gihapon ni Brownlee kag sang Gin Kings paagi sa 3-0 sweep sa quarterfinals sang PBA Governor’s Cup conference.
Ulihi nga nakahampang si Durham para sa Bolts sa East Asia Super League (EASL) sang nagligad nga October 16 nga naka-skor sang 14 points sa 77-74 nga kalutusan batok sa iya former team nga Ryukyu sa Okinawa, Japan.
Antes magbalik si Durham sa Michigan sa United States subong nga adlaw, nagpatigayon ang franchise sang thanksgiving party para sa iya sa company headquarters sa Pasig sabg Martes.
Indi lamang sa PBA nakasentro ang karera sang 36-anyos nga basketball star.
Ginkilala man siya anay nga Japan B.League Finals Most Valuable Player sang 2023 matapos ginpangunahan ang Ryukyu Golden Kings sa championship.
Nakahampang man siya sa Romania, Finland, Israel, Uruguay, Korea, kag sa NBA G League.
Gin-anunsyo sang Filipino pole vault superstar kag Olympian nga si EJ Obiena nga fully recovered na ini gikan sa ginsuprir nga lower back injury.
Suno kay EJ, gin-clear naman sang doctor nga mahimo na ini mag-compete liwat.
Plano ni Obiena nga magbalik sa iya hampang sa Enero para sa 2025 season.
Si EJ ang ginakabig subong nga world no.
Matandaan nga naangkon sini ang amo nga injury kadungan sang iya pagpasakop sa Silesia leg sang Diamond League kun sa diin nagtapos ini sa ikalima nga pwesto sang Agusto.
NBA: Steph Curry, nakaangkon sang injury sa kapaslawan sang Warriors vs Clippers
Ginkumpirma ni Golden State Warriors head coach Steve Kerr nga nakaangkon sang injury ang superstar nga si Stephen Curry sa 112-104 nga kapaslawan sang team batok sa LA Clippers.
Nakit-an ang 36-anyos nga two-time MVP kag four-time NBA champion nga nagakiang-kiang na sang nagguwa ini sa third quarter.
Pagkatapos sang kuwatro minutos sa fourth quarter, nagbalik ini sa hampang apang naglala ang sakit kag ginbuligan sang team-mate nga si Gary Payton sa locker room.
Indi ini tuman ka lala nga injury suno kay Kerr apang ginakahangaw-an gihapon nila ang kaangay sini nga ankle injuries.
Si Curry nga may malawig man nga history sang ankle injuries ang naka-skor sang 18 points sa una nga kapaslawan sang Warriors subong nga NBA season.
Suno sa team, nagpaidalom ini sa Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan pagkatapos sang hampang kag wala sang structural damage apang may left peroneal strain.
Natalana nga iga-evaluate liwat ang iya kondisyon sa Biyernes.
Nangibabaw ang mga Ilonggo nga players nga nagabug-os sang J3 Barotac Nuevo nga nagpasakop sa Octoberfest Sports League nga ginpatigayon sa Boracay.
Gindala nila pauli ang titulo sa Beach Football.
Ang ila manager amo si Neil Jeffrey Reyes.
Matandaan nga sa Love Boracay Beach Sports Activity sa Boracay sang April 27- 28, 2024, sila man ang gindeklarar nga kampeon sa Beach Football.
PBA: TNT, ginlutos si Brownlee kag ang Ginebra sa imbukada nga hampang sa finals
Gintambakan sang defending champion nga TNT ang Barangay Ginebra sa Game 1 sang PBA Season 49 Governors’ Cup finals nga gintambungan sang 11,000 ka basketball fans subong nga gab-i.
Nagtakop ang una nga hampang sa best of seven series, 104-88, sa Ynares Sports Center sa Antipolo.
Sa imbukada pa lamang sang sambuwa, mapag-on na ang Tropang Giga nga may 27-15 nga abanse sa first quarter antes ang 43-37 lead sa first half.
Tinguhaan sang Gin Kings sa pagpanguna ni Justin Brownlee kag Coach Tim Cone nga makabawi batok kanday Coach Chot Reyes kag Rondae Hollis-Jefferson sa Game 2 sa Miyerkules, Oktubre 30, sa Smart Araneta Coliseum sa Cubao.
Ini nga title duel subong nga 2024 amo ang rematch sa Governors’ Cup finals sang nagligad nga tuig kun sa diin gindis-og sang Tropang Giga ang Gin Kings sa trono kag gin-angkon ang ila labing-una nga kampyonato sa conference.
Away man ini sa tunga sang pinakaamayo nga imports — si Hollis-Jefferson sang TNT kag Brownlee sang Ginebra — matapos ginlutos ni RHJ si JB sa Best Import battle sang nagligad nga tuig kag amo man ang naghatag sa Gin Kings star sang iya una nga kapaslawan sa finals series.
Ini naman ang ikawalo nga finals appearance ni Brownlee kag nagatuyo nga makuha ang pang-pito na nga championship kaupod sa Ginebra nga amo ang magahimo sa iya bilang winningest import sa PBA history.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang PBA nga ang kita sa Game 1 sa finals series ang iga-donar tanan sa mga biktima sang Bagyo Kristine.#
Ginselebar ni Jaylen Brown ang iya 28th birthday paagi sa maayo nga performance sa 122-102 nga kadalag-an sang Boston Celtics batok sa Washington Wizards sa pagbukas sang regular season sa NBA.
Daku na ang nalab-ot sang Celtics star halin sang gin-draft ini bilang third overall sang Boston sang 2016.
Nagpirma ini sang five-year contract extension balor $304 million antes ang 2023-24 campaign, kag sa pagtakop sang season, ang three-time All-Star amo ang ginkilala nga Eastern Conference Finals MVP kag NBA Finals MVP.
Sang siya naga-edad pa lamang sang 22-anyos, siya man ang pinakabata nga na-eleher nga vice president sang National Basketball Players Association.
Kilala man siya sa bulig sa komunidad paagi sa 7uice Foundation nga naga-address sang social issues kaangay sang education kag income inequality.
Sunod nga atubangon sang Celtics sa Eastern Conference subong nga regular season ang Detroit Pistons 7:00 buwas sa aga, Oktubre 27 (PHT).
‘Mavs blue looks good on me’ — Klay Thompson sa iya debut sa Dallas
Dalayawon ang imbukada nga performance sang four-time National Basketball Association (NBA) champion nga si Klay Thompson sa regular season kaupod ang bag-o sini nga team nga Dallas Mavericks.
Naka-22 points si Thompson sa iya Dallas debut kag nangin daku nga bulig kay Mavericks superstar Luka Doncic sa 120-109 NBA victory batok sa San Antonio Spurs.
May 28 puntos naman ang Slovenian star kag may 10 rebounds para sa Mavs.
Ang Mavericks nga pangaduha sa Boston Celtics sang nagligad nga season ang nagkuha kay Thompson sa free agent deal sa off-season sa tuyo nga makabawi kag makuha ang kampyonato subong nga season.
Si Thompson — nga may apat ka titulo sa iya 13 ka seasons kaupod kay Stephen Curry kag Golden State Warriors — ang nalipay man sa iya performance.
Ang iya anum ka tres amo ang pinakadamo nga three-pointers nga nahimo sang bisan sin-o nga player sa iya Mavericks debut.
“Blue is my favorite color,” pahayag sini pagkatapos sang hampang.
Nakabulig man sa Dallas ang 15 puntos ni Kyrie Irving.
Nagpanguna naman sa Spurs si Victor Wembanyama nga may 17 points samtang binudlayan naman sa shots ang 11-time All-Star point guard nga si Chris Paul.
PBA: Kita sa Game 1 sang finals, makadto tanan sa mga biktima ni Bagyo Kristine
Iga-donar sa mga biktima ni Bagyo Kristine ang kita sang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) sa Game 1 sang 2024 Governors’ Cup Finals.
“Nandito tayo, preparing for Sunday’s game.
Kung sino pang gustong tumulong, nananawagan po ako na tulungan natin ang ating mga kapatid,” dugang sini.
Natalana sa Domingo sang gab-i, Oktubre 27, ang Game 1 sa Ynares Center sa Antipolo.
Tuyo sang defending champion nga TNT nga madepensahan ang ila trono nga target naman agawon sang Gin Kings.
Rematch ini sa tunga sang duha ka teams nga pangunahan man gihapon sang reigning Best Import Rondae Hollis-Jefferson sang Tropang Giga kag Justin Brownlee sang Ginebra.
Nahibaluan nga antes ang kampyonato sang Tropang Giga sang nagligad nga conference, sanday Brownlee ang nagauyat sang korona sang 2016, 2017, 2019, kag 2021.
Steph Curry, ginalantaw nga mangin top earner sa NBA subong nga season
Ginalantaw nga magapanguna na ang Warriors star guard nga si Stephen Curry sa mag-angkon sang pinakadaku nga kuwarta sa National Basketball Association (NBA) players subong nga season kun basehan ang sweldo sa guwa kag sulod sang court.
Si Curry nga amo ang all-time leader sang liga sa three-pointers ang ginalauman nga makapasulod sang $155.8 million base sa report sang Sportico nga mas mataas pa sa $133.7 million nga maangkon naman sang Los Angeles Lakers star nga si LeBron James.
Wala sang bisan isa ka player nga nakaangkon sang mas madamo nga kuwarta ipaanggid kay James sa nagligad nga 11 ka seasons sang NBA.
Ang anay basketball superstar nga si Kobe Bryant halin man sa Lakers amo ang ulihi nga mas mataas kay James apang natabo ini sang nagligad pa nga 2012-13.
Magluwas sa mga kumpaniya nga gina-endorso ni Curry nga JPMorgan Chase, Panini kag Fanatics, may yara man siya sang media business kag may capital firm nga magadugang sa iya nga bankroll.
Si Kevin Durant sang Phoenix Suns ($97.9 million) ang on track nga mangin fourth-highest earner sa 2024-25 campaign nga napatung-an nanday Milwaukee Bucks star Giannis Antetokounmpo (third-highest earner nga may $103.8 million) kag Damian Lillard (fifth highest nga may $66.8 million).
Kahapon sang pormal na nga nagsugod ang panibag-o nga regular season sang NBA kun sa diin sa opening-night contests, ginlutos sang Lakers ang Minnesota Timberwolves, 110-103, samtang ginpierde naman sang defending champions nga Boston Celtics ang New York Knicks, 132-109.
Mga manghod ni Caloy Yulo, nagahanas na sa Japan sa idalom ni coach Mune Kugimiya
Nagsugod na sa training sa Japan ang duha ka mga manghod ni two-time Olympic gold medalist Carlos Yulo nga sanday Eldrew kag Elaiza.
Suno sa ila iloy nga si Angelica Yulo, nagahanas ang duha sa idalom sang training camp ni Japanese coach Munehiro Kugimiya nga amo man ang nangin long-time coach ni Caloy antes sini nakuha ang duha ka bulawan nga mga medalya sa Olympiada.
Nagpares si Coach Mune sa iban nga Japanese company sponsors para sa training nga ginalantaw nga preparasyon na sa Los Angeles Olympics 2028.
Una na nga ginsapubliko ni Gymnastics Association of the Philippines (GAP) president Cynthia Carrion ang plano nga ilakip si Eldrew sa lineup sa Los Angeles 2028 nga posible maga-compete kaupod sa iya magulang nga si Caloy nga nagatuyo naman nga depensahan ang iya gold medals sa Summer Games.
Nahibaluan nga nagahimo naman sang pangalan si Eldrew paagi sa pagdaog sang mga medalya sa national multi-sport events samtang si Elaiza naman ang nakabulsa sang lima ka gold medals sang ginpatigayon ang Palarong Pambansa sini nga tuig.
Si Caloy nga kampyon sa floor exercise kag vault events sa Paris Games amo ang una nga Filipino gymnast nga nakadaog sang Olympic gold medal kag una man nga Pinoy nga nakabulsa sang duha gid ka gold medals sa isa lang ka edisyon sang Olympiada.#
REMATCH: Gin Kings, ginlutos ang Beermen sa semis, maatubang liwat sa TNT sa finals
Maga-atubangay liwat ang Barangay Ginebra kag ang defending champions nga TNT Tropang Giga sa finals sang PBA Governors’ Cup!
Ini matapos ginlutos sang Ginebra ang San Miguel Beermen, 102-99, sa Game 6 sang semifinals sa Smart Araneta Coliseum subong nga gab-i, Oktubre 20.
Nagpanguna na ang Gin Kings, 86-78, sa temprano nga bahin sang fourth quarter antes nakalagas ang Beermen, 99-98, matapos ang back-to-back baskets nanday June Mar Fajardo kag import nga si EJ Anosike sang dos minutos na lamang ang nabilin sa hampang.
1:49 minutes naman ang nabilin sa fourth frame sang naka-tres si Justin Brownlee nga amo ang naghatag-ligwa sa Ginebra kag amo na ang katapusan nga puntos sa hampang.
Nagpanguna sa Ginebra si Maverick Ahanmisi nga may 25 points, two rebounds, isa ka assist, kag isa ka steal samtang si Brownlee naman ang may 21 points, seven boards, seven assists, three steals, kag two blocks.
Naka-20 puntos si Japeth Aguilar samtang ang scoring-leader sa fourth quarter nga si RJ Abarrientos ang may 16 points.
Sa Beermen naman, nanguna si Anosike nga may 30 points samtang may 22 points naman kag 15 rebounds kag reigning Most Valuable Player nga si Fajardo.
Balantayan ang Game 1 sa finals series 7:30 sang gab-i sa Domingo sa Ynares Center sa Antipolo.
Isahanon lamang ang Golden State Warriors nga wala sang naangkon nga kalutusan antes nagtakop ang preseason sa National Basketball Association (NBA) subong nga tuig.
Katapusan nga gin-atubang sang Warriors ang Los Angeles Lakers kun sa diin ginkamasaan gid sini ang team sa score nga 132-74 sa hampang sa Chase Center sa San Francisco, California, USA.
6-0 ang record nanday Stephen Curry sa sini nga preseason matapos ginlutos ang Los Angeles Clippers, Sacramento Kings (duha ka beses), Detroit Pistons kag Los Angeles Lakers (duha ka beses).
Sang 2022 nga katapusan nila nahimo ang amo sini nga record, nadag-an nila ang championship title sa sa regular season.
Apang santo sa inisyal nga reports, may tatlo ka players nga i-waive ang Golden State.
Nagaguwa ang mga pangalan nanday Kevin Knox, Blake Hinson, kag Jackson Rowe.
Nahibaluan nga sa kada pagtakop sang NBA preseason, ginahimo na sang teams ang ila desisyon sa pinal nila nga roster para sa pagbukas sang regular season sa masunod nga semana.
Lakip diri ang pag-waive sa players sa training camp deals nga wala nakalab-ot sa standard roster.#
NBA: Lonzo Ball, balik na sa paghampang sa Bulls matapos ang sunod-sunod nga surgeries
Balik na sa court National Basketball Association (NBA) ang Chicago Bulls guard nga si Lonzo Ball matapos ang tatlo ka operasyon sa iya tuhod kag masobra duha ka tuig man nga pagpahuway.
Ang pagbalik sang 26-anyos nga guard ang ginhimo kadungan sang hampang sang Bulls batok sa Minnesota Timberwolves sa preseason.
Lonzo Ball!,” ang anunsyo sa arena nga madugay man nga ginkalangkagan sang fans.
Ini ang iya una nga hampang halin sang Enero 14, 2022 kag ginhatagan sang standing ovation sang mga tumalan-aw sa United Center sang naka-tres ini gilayon.
Nagtakop ang hampang nga may 10 points, 1 assist, kag 1 rebound si Ball sa 15 minutos nga pag-upod sini sa Bulls.
Nahibaluan nga nagpaidalom si Ball sa meniscus operation sang Enero 2022, ginsundan sang arthroscopic surgery, kag nagpaidalom pa gid sa cartilage transplant surgery.
Apisar madamo na ang naagyan, daku ang paglaum sang former No.
2 overall draft pick nga mabuligan niya ang Bulls subong nga season.
May isa pa ka preseason game ang Bulls batok sa Clevecland Cavaliers 8:00 buwas sa aga (PH TIME) antes ang pagbukas sang regular season para sa team sa New Orleans sa Oktubre 23.#
PBA: TNT, ginlutos ang Rain or Shine sa Game 5, nag-abante na sa Finals
Nag-abanse na sa finals sang PBA Governors Cup ang defending champion nga TNT Tropang Giga matapos ginlutos ang Rain or Shine, 113-95, sa Game 5 sang semifinal playoff sa PBA Season 49 Governors’ Cup sa Ynares Center sa Antipolo.
Sang nagtakop ang first quarter, 28-25, ginapasagunsunan ini sang TNT sang 12-0 sa pagbukas sang second quarter kag ginlimitahan lamang ang Elasto Painters sa 14 points sa amo nga frame.
Wala na nag-preno ang team halin sang nakuha sini ang 56-39 lead sa first half.
Nagpanguna sa team si Rondae Hollis-Jefferson nga amo man ang import nga naghakwat sa tropa para makuha ang kampyonato sa amo man nga conference sang nagligad nga tuig.
Ginbubo sini ang 36 points, 11 rebounds, nine assists, kag six steals sa sambuwa nga amo ang nagtapos sa best-of-seven series, 4-1.
Ini man ang nagpabalik kay Coach Chot Reyes sa finals sa PBA sa labing-una nga tion halin sang nagbalik ini sa TNT bench sang nagligad nga season.
Hulaton na lamang sang TNT ang winner sa tunga sang semis series sang Barangay Ginebra kag San Miguel kun sa diin gina-uyatan na sang Gin Kings ang lead, 3-2, matapos ang 121-92 nga resulta sang hampang sa Game 5 subong man nga gab-i.
PBA: Barangay Ginebra, isa ka daog na lang kag makatapak na sa finals
Isa ka daog na lang ang kinahanglan sang Barangay Ginebra agud nga makasulod na sa finals sang PBA Governors’ Cup.
Ini matapos nakuha na ang 3-2 nga lead sa best-of-seven semifinals batok sa San Miguel Beermen kasunod sang Game 5 sa Ynares Center sa Antipolo subong nga gab-i kun sa diin nagtakop ang hampang pabor sa Gin Kings, 121-92.
Bisan indi kabahin sang starting lineup, nagpakita sang pwersa si RJ Abarrientos, nagpaulan sang 28 puntos, kag amo ang nagpanguna sa tanan nga scorers sa hampang magluwas pa sa iya tatlo ka rebounds kag duha ka assists.
Ginsiling sini nga wala man niya ginpilit ang iya hampang kag nagsunod lang sa sistema sang Gin Kings partikular sa depensa kag opensa.
“Wala naman ako masyadong iniisip ngayon, eh.
Sabi nga ni coach Tim [Cone] kanina, ‘di ko pinipilit shots ko.
Antes sini, ginpanas sang Ginebra ang 13-point deficit sa first period kag wala na nagbalikid sang nalapawan na sini ang San Miguel, 29-17, sa second period agud makuha ang 63-50 lead.
Ginbubo man sang Gin Kings ang pwersa batok sa Beermen sa fourth period paagi sa 29 points batok sa 13 sang kasumpong.
Ang former league MVP nga si Scottie Thompson ang nakaamot sang 22 points, samtang si Justin Brownlee nga preska sa 49-points sa Game 4 ang nakahaboy sang 18 points kag nine rebounds subong nga sambuwa.
Nanguna naman sa team nanday Jorge Gallent amo ang import nga si EJ Anosike nga may 21 markers samtang ang eight-time MVP June Mar Fajardo ang may 17-points kag 18-rebounds.
Ang Ginebra — nga ginlutos sang TNT Tropang Giga sa Governors’ Cup finals sang 2022-2023 season — ang mahimo nga makatapos sa serye sa Game Six sa Domingo.
Mahimo naman makapangapyot ang San Miguel kag butungon ang Gin Kings sa do-or-die nga Game 7.
Daw wala sang pagtigulang ang football superstar nga si Lionel Messi sang naka-hat trick ini sa hampang sang Argentina batok sa Bolivia sa 2026 World Cup qualifier.
Ang tatlo ka goals ni Messi amo ang naghakwat sa team nga makuha ang 6-0 nga kadalag-an batok sa central South American team.
Ini na ang ika-10 nga international hat-trick ni Messi nga patas na sa record sang iya long-time rival nga si Cristiano Ronaldo sang Portugal.
Magluwas sa hat trick, si Messi man ang naghatag sang duha ka assists kanday Lautaro Martinez kag Julian Alvarez nga pareho man niya nga kaupod sang nagkampyon sa 2022 World Cup.
Ang isa pa nga naka-skor sa team amo si Thiago Almada sa ika-69 nga minuto.
Ini ang ikaduha nga hampang sang eight-time Balon d’Or winner para sa Argentina halin sang Hulyo sang nagsuprer ini sang ankle injury.
Ang Argentina national football team ukon La Albiceleste ang nagtapos sa draw batok sa Venezuela sang nagligad nga semana, nalutos batok sa Colombia sang Septyembre, apang nagapanguna gihapon sa CONMEBOL World Cup qualifying table nga may 22 points.
Sunod nga atubangon sang squad ang Paraguay sa masunod nga qualifier game nga naka-schedule sa Nobyembre 14.
Kawhi Leonard, indi makahampang sa nabilin nga NBA preseason bangud sa injury
Indi makahampang sa nabilin nga preseason si Los Angeles Clippers forward Kawhi Leonard.
Ini bangud sa ginasuprir nga right knee injury nga nagabutang sa alang-alang sa iya availability para sa pagsugod sang regular season.
Suno kay Clippers head coach Ty Lue, padayon ang pag- rehab sa tuhod ni Leonard subong nga semana.
Si Leonard, nga two-time NBA champion, ang wala pa nakahampang para sa Clippers subong nga preseason.
Nahibaluan nga wala man makahampang ang 33-anyos nga six-time All-Star sa ulihi nga eight games sang 2023-24 regular season kag apat sa anom ka hampang sang Clippers bangud sa injury.
NBA: Joel Embiid sang Sixers, indi makahampang sa preseason
Ginkumpirma sang Philadelphia 76ers nga indi anay pagpahampangon sa preseason ang ila sentro kag former NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) nga si Joel Embiid samtang ginapaayo-ayo pa sini ang iya nga tiil.
Kabahin man ini sang iya preparasyon para sa mas maayo nga kondisyon sa pagbukas sang regular season.
Gin-anunsyo sang 76ers ini nga desisyon matapos wala nag-upod si Embiid sa preseason games batok sa Minnesota Timberwolves sang Sabado kag batok sa Boston Celtics sang Domingo.
Suno sa team, padayunon gihapon sang 30-anyos nga basketball star ang individual treatment plan.
Magluwas pa ini sa nadula sa iya nga 25 tubtub 30 pounds sa offseason agud nga mabuhinan ang pressure sa iya nga tiil.
Buot silingon sini, wala man siya sa hampang batok sa Atlanta Hawks subong nga aga, batok sa Brooklyn Nets sa Huwebes, kag batok sa Orlando Magic sa Sabado.
Magabukas ang regular season sang Philadelphia sa Oktubre 23 batok sa pangayaw nga Milwaukee Bucks.
Matandaan nga si Embiid ang nakahampang lamang sa 39 games sang nagligad nga regular season bangud sa injury sa wala nga tuhod kun sa diin nagpaidalom pa ini sang operasyon sang Pebrero.
Kaupod man siya sa Team USA nga nakabulsa sang gold medal sa Paris Olympics apang nangin mahinay ang performance bangud sa injury issue.
Subong nga season, ginakabig ang 76ers nga daku nga balabag sa reigning champions nga Boston Celtics sa Eastern Conference apang ginalantaw man sang analysts nga mahimo lamang nila ini kun mapabilin nga healthy sanday Embiid kag Paul George nga lunsay may history sang injury.#
Quadro Alas, gintumba si Saul Sanchez sa 1st round sang super bantamweight bout
Gintumba sang former three-division world champion nga si John Riel “Quadro Alas” Casimero ang kasumpong sini nga Americano nga si Saul Sanchez sa imbukada pa lamang nga round sang super bantamweight bout sa Yokohama Budokan sa Yokohama, Japan.
10 ka rounds ang amo nga sambuwa apang sa umpisa pa lang sang ila pag-atubangay, maathag na sa hulag sang Pinoy boxer nga wala ini sang gana nga palawigon ang hampang.
Nag-igu ang right hook ni Casimero kay Sanchez rason nga nagpanukod na ini sa canvas kag gin-isipan na sang referee 30 segundos pa lang sa first round.
Nakalampuwas pa ang 25-anyos nga Amerikano kag nagbuya sang mga sumbag, apang napasulod sang Pinoy ang solid left hook nga nagtumba liwat kay Sanchez.
Nagbangon liwat ang kasumpong apang asud-asud na ang atake ni Casimero rason nga gin-untat na sang referee ang sambuwa kag gindeklarar nga daog ang Pinoy via technical knockout sa marka nga 2-minutes kag 41-seconds.
Nagsaka na subong sa 34-4-1 ang record sang 35-anyos nga si Quadro Alas nga may 23 knockouts, samtang nagnubo naman si Sanchez sa 21-4 record nga may 12 knockouts.
Antes nadayon ang hampang, may drama pa nga natabo sa weigh-in sang Oktubre 12 bangud nagbug-at si Casimero sang 56.3 kilos nga mas sobra sang isa ka kilo sa limit.
Sa ikaduha nga attempt duha ka oras ang nagligad, overweight man gihapon ini sa 55.9 kilos.
Base sa Japan Boxing Commission rules nga naugyunan man sang duha ka kampo, ginhatagan liwat sang tyansa si Casimero sa isa pa ka weigh-in sang aga sang adlaw na mismo sang hampang, kun sa diin na-clear na gid man sini ang bug-at nga 128 pounds rason nga nagpadayon ang non-title bout.
Indi ini ang una nga bes nga may mga problema si Quadro Alas sa iya bug-at.
May isyu man ini sa bug-at sa scheduled fight sini sang 2021 batok kay Paul Butler para sa iya anay WBO bantamweight world title.
Na-postpone ang original bout bangud nag-withdraw si Casimero sa weigh-in bangud sa iya ginpahayag nga gastritis.
Sang ulihi, dalayon na nga nakakasan ang WBO world title ang Pinoy fighter bangud sa paggamit sini sang sauna agud nga makasulod sa ginkasugtan nga bug-at sang gin-reschedule ang iya away batok kay Butler.
Nahibaluan nga ang paggamit sang sauna ang ginadumilian gid sa idalom sang medical guidelines sang British Boxing Board of Control.#
Quadro Alas, magabalik sa ring subong nga adlaw para sa non-title super bantamweight bout
Matapos ang isa ka tuig nga pahuway, magabalik na sa ring subong nga adlaw ang 35-anyos nga Pinoy boxer nga si Johnriel Casimero ukon si Quadro Alas.
Ang ila away amo ang main event sa three-fight card kun sa diin yara man sa undercard ang isa pa ka Pinoy boxer nga si Vince Paras batok sa Japanese nga si Hiroto Kyoguchi.
Ang nagakumpleto sa card amo ang sambuwa sang Japanese nga si Yukinori Oguni kag Namibian nga si Fillipus Nghitumbwa.
Katapusan nga nakit-an sa boxing ring si Casimero sang October 2023 sang nangin draw ang resulta sang hampang sini batok kay Oguni nga sang amo nga tion napilasan na sa fourth round kag ginpauntat na sang referee ang sambuwa.
Antes ang amo nga draw, si Casimero nga anay three-division world champion, ang may yara sang sunod-sunod nga kadalag-an sa walo ka away nga ang katapusan amo ang unanimous decision win batok kay Nghitumbwa.
Ang target ni Quadro Alas sa pagbalik amo ang makasaka sa super bantamweight division (122 lbs.) kun sa diin yara nakatungtong ang Japanese superstar nga si Naoya Inoue bilang unified champion.
Matandaan nga ginkakasan anay si Casimero sang World Boxing Organization (WBO) bantamweight title sang Mayo 2022 bangud duha ka beses niya ini nga wala nadepensahan bangud sa problema sa weigh-in.
Pang-pito siya sa rankings sa World Boxing Council (WBC) super bantamweight, pang-13 sa International Boxing Federation (IBF), kag pang-anum naman sa WBO.
Gina-uyatan sini ang 33-4-1 win-loss-draw card.
Ang 27-anyos naman nga kasumpong sini nga si “The Beast” ang may yara sang 21-3 win-loss record.
John Amores, ginsilutan sang PBA kaangot sa pagpangluthang sini sang Septyembre
Suspendido nga wala sang sweldo ang silot sang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) batok kay John Amores matapos ang insidente nga may gintiro ini sa Lumban, Laguna sang Septyembre.
May ginplastar man nga kondisyon para tugutan siya nga maghampang liwat sa liga.
Suno kay Narvasa, dapat nga makakuha sang clearance gikan sa iya nga counselors si Amores bag-o siya tugutan nga maghampang liwat.
Apang tugutan naman si Amores nga magtambong sa practice sang team samtang suspendido ini.
Mabaton man ni Amores ang iban pa niya nga sweldo kag benepisyo magluwas sa sweldo niya nga natalana sa mga hampang nga suspendido siya.
Ginpahayag ni Marcial nga nakig-angot man ang liga sa Games and Amusements Board (GAB) nahanungod sa desisyon.
Una diri, ginpahayag sang GAB nga posibleng indi na pagpasugtan si Amores nga makahampang sa professional leagues.
Paathag ni Narvasa nga ang ila nga desisyon ang base sa mga pagsulundan sang PBA nga ginlapas ni Amores, kag indi direkta nga naangot sa ginkaulamiran niya nga kaso.
Kaupod ni Amores ang iya nga utod nga ginkasuhan sang attempted homicide bangud sa insidente.
Nahilway sila matapos magbayad sang piyansa.
Napatas na sang San Miguel sa 1-1 ang serye sa 2024 PBA Governors’ Cup semifinals batok sa Barangay Ginebra matapos ang overtime sa Game 2 sa Araneta Coliseum sa Quezon City nga nagtakop sa skor nga 131-125.
Antes nakuha sang Beermen ang kadalag-an, naagaw pa sang Ginebra ang momentum sa fourth quarter sang napanas sini ang 11 puntos nga abanse paagi kay Justin Brownlee nga naka-15 puntos sa amo lamang nga frame.
Singko minutos ang nabilin sa oras sa fourth quarter sang nagpatas sa 97 ang skor sang duha ka team paagi sa tres ni Scottie Thompson.
Ang pinaka-interesante nga parte sang hampang amo ang nabilin nga 36 segundos sang 104-103 ang skor pabor sa San Miguel, apang naka-tres si Brownlee.
Pila ka segundos ang nagligad, nagbalos sang dos si CJ Perez kag napatas liwat sa 106-106 ang scores.
Dos segundos na lang ang nabilin sa fourth quarter sang naka-tres pa liwat si Perez nga nagpahugyaw na sang tanan kag nagpasaka na sang skor sang Beermen sa 110 batok sa 108 sang Ginebra.
Nag-time out si Coach Tim Cone kag pagbalik sang hampang, didto na kag na-foul ni Terrence Romeo si Maverick Ahanmisi.
Ang duha sini ka free throws amo ang nagpapatas sa skor sa 110 kag nagdiretso na sa overtime.
Sa extra period, ginpamatud-an naman sang 32-anyos nga former PBA scoring champion nga si Romeo nga masarangan sini mahakwat ang San Miguel.
Siya ang Best Player of the Game matapos ang 26 puntos nga ginpaulan lakip ang 22 sa fourth kag extra period.
Walo ka sunod-sunod nga puntos ang ginbubo sini sa overtime nga nagpasaka sa lead sang San Miguel sa 120-117 sang dos minutos na lang ang nabilin sa extra time antes ang finishing touches nanday Marcio Lassiter, EJ Anosike kag Jericho Cruz.
Ang ila import nga si Anosike ang naka-35 points kag 9 rebounds; may 28 puntos si Perez; kag ang eight-time MVP nga si June Mar Fajardo ang may 23 points, 21 rebounds, kag six assists.
Apisar nalutos ang Ginebra, si Brownlee gihapon ang nagauyat sang game-high score nga 39 points.
Balantayan ang Game 3 sa Domingo, Oktubre 13, sa Dasmarinas, Cavite.
Gin-anunsyo sang 38-anyos nga Spanish tennis legend nga si Rafael Nadal nga maga-retiro na siya pagkatapos sang Davis Cup finals sa masunod nga bulan.
Ginpaagi sini sa social media ang pagpahibalo sang iya desisyon nga ginalantaw nga naangot sa iya balik-balik nga injuries nga nagasablag na sa iya mga hampang.
Suno kay Rafa, isa ka “dream come true” ang nalab-utan niya sa iya malawig nga karera.
Kilala si Nadal nga may 22 ka Grand Slam singles titles kag isa sa ginakabig nga Greatest Tennis Players of All Time.
Masami siya ginakumparar sa iban man nga tennis superstars nga sanday Roger Federer kag Novak Djokovic.
Sila nga tatlo ang ginatawag nga “Big Three.”
Matandaan nga una naman nga naka-retiro si Federer sang naga-edad siya sang 41-anyos kadungan man sang pagtakop sang 2022 season.
Sa iya nabilin nga tion sa professional tennis, nalangkag si Nadal nga ibubo ini sa Davis Cup nga ginapatigayon sa Malaga, Spain.
Matandaan nga katapusan nga naghampang si Nadal sa Paris Olympics kun sa diin ginlutos siya ni Djokovic sa second round sang singles tournament kag nakalab-ot man sa quarterfinals sang men’s doubles kaupod ang isa man ka Spaniard nga si Carlos Alcaraz.#
Liwat nga nagsabwag sang iya gahum ang three-time Best Import nga si Justin Brownlee sa imbukada nga semifinal match sang Barangay Ginebra batok sa San Miguel Beermen sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) Governor’s Cup.
Lima sa anum ka kuwatro-puntos ang nahimo ni Brownlee kag nagtapos nga may 33 puntos, eight rebounds kag five assists sa 122-105 nga kadalag-an sang Ginebra batok sa Beermen sa Game 1 sa PhilSports Arena subong nga gab-i, Oktubre 9.
Sa 33 puntos sang resident import, 20 ang natira sini sa ikatatlo nga quarter — lakip ang tatlo halin sa four-point line — nga nagpasangkad pa sang abanse halin sa five-point halftime lead sang Gin Kings.
Halin sa 63-58 nga halftime score, naka-34 puntos ang Kings batok sa 20 sang Beermen sa amo nga quarter.
Dalayawon man ang performance ni Stephen Holt nga may 30 puntos kag apat ka assists.
Sa San Miguel, may 27 points, 8 rebounds, 4 assists, kag 2 steals ang import nga si EJ Anosike samtang ang reigning MVP naman nga si June Mar Fajardo ang may 16 points, 16 rebounds, kag 7 assists.
HISTORY: LeBron, Bronny James, 1st father-son duo nga naghampang sa isa lang ka NBA team
Apisar preseason pa lamang, nasaksihan na ang isa ka maragtason nga hampang sa National Basketball Association (NBA) sang nag-updanay sa court ang mag-amay nga sanday LeBron kag Bronny James.
Sanday LeBron kag Bronny ang labing-una nga father-son duo nga nakahampang sa NBA kag sa isa lang ka team sang nagsambuwa ang Los Angeles Lakers batok sa Phoenix Suns sa Acrisure Arena sa Palm Desert, California.
Daw kaangay nga regalo ini kay Bronny nga naga-selebrar sang iya 20th birthday sang naghampang ini sa sulod sang kuwatro minutos kaupod ang iya 39-anyos nga amay nga ginakabig basketball superstar kag top scorer pa sa liga.
Ini ang una nga preseason game sang four-time NBA champion kag 20-time All-Star kag nag-atubang pa sa iya anay teammates sa USA national team nga sanday Kevin Durant kag Devin Booker.
Naka-skor siya sang 19 points sa first half kag wala na nakahampang sa second half.
Si Bronny naman nga may “James Jr.” sa iya likod ang nagtapos nga may zero points, two rebounds, kag four turnovers sa sulod sang 13 minutos.
Ika-55 siya nga overall pick sa 2024 NBA Draft nga ginpatigayon sang Hunyo.
Sa sini nga preseason game, nalutos ang Lakers sa Suns, 118-114.
May apat pa ka preseason games ang Lakers kun sa diin sunod sini nga maatubang ang Milwaukee Bucks.
Patigayunon ang imbukada nga hampang sini sa regular season sa Oktubre 22 batok sa Minnesota Timberwolves sa Crypto.com Arena sa Los Angeles.
Ginhakwat sang reigning kag eight-time Most Valuable Player (MVP) nga si June Mar Fajardo ang San Miguel Beermen agud makasulod sa semifinals kag makasambuwa si Justin Brownlee kag ang Barangay Ginebra.
Ang 40 puntos kag 24 rebounds ni Fajardo amo ang isa sa iya pinakamaayo nga performance sa iya malawig nga karera sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA).
Ginpangunahan sini ang 109-105 nga kadalag-an sang Beermen batok sa Converge sa ila nga do-or-die Game 5 sa quarterfinals sa Governor’s Cup nga ginpatigayon sa Ynares Center sa Antipolo, Oktubre 6.
Nakabulig naman si CJ Perez sang 10 points, 9 assists, 6 rebounds, kag 2 steals para sa San Miguel para sa ila pag-abanse sa semis sa ika-anum na nga sunod-sunod nga conference.
Balantayan ang una nga semifinal match sa tunga nanday Brownlee kag Fajardo kag ila teams 5:00 sa hapon sa Myerkules, Oktubre 9.
Nakarekord sang dos puntos kag tatlo ka blocks ang anak ni basketball superstar LeBron James nga si Bronny sa preseason debut sini sa Los Angeles Lakers nga amo man ang imbukada nga hampang sang team antes ang regular season sang National Basketball Association (NBA).
16 minutos ang ginlawig ni Bronny sa court kun sa diin wala nakasulod ang nauna nga lima ka tira, apang nakahimo man ang 6-foot-2 guard sang isa ka rebound kag isa ka assist sa first half sang second quarter kag sa ikaapat nga frame.
124-107 ang resulta sang hampang pabor sa Minnesota Timberwolves.
Wala pa gihapon nasaksihan sang fans ang historic father-son duo nga nagahampang sa isa lang ka NBA team bangud nagpungko lang si LeBron, wala naka-uniporme, kag wala nakaupod sa mga naghampang.
Nahibaluan nga napilian si Bronny sa second round sang NBA Draft kag nakahampang ini sa summer league sa Las Vegas.
Ginalantaw nga magahampang ini sa Lakers sa preseason apang sa regular season, posible nga magatupa ini sa South Bay Lakers sa G League.
Magluwas nga wala si LeBron sa una nga preseason game, wala man si Anthony Davis sa hampang sang Lakers, apang patas lang para sa fans bangud ginbangko man sang Wolves ang ila 2024 All-Stars nga amo ang shooting guard nga si Anthony Edwards kag power forward nga si Julius Randle.
Buwas, 9:30 sa aga (oras sa Pilipinas), magahampang liwat ang Lakers batok sa Phoenix Suns kun sa diin ginalauman nga makaupod na ang 39-anyos nga league topscorer nga dungan naman sa ika-20 nga kaadlawan ni Bronny.#
Celtics, ginlutos ang Nuggets sa imbukada nga preseason game sa UAE
Nagdaog ang 2024 Champions nga Boston Celtics sa imbukada nga hampang sa National Basketball Association (NBA) preseason batok sa Denver Nuggets nga kampyon naman sang 2023.
Nakuha sang Celtics ang 107-103 nga kadalag-an sa Etihad Arena sa Abu Dhabi nga kapital sang United Arab Emirates.
Nanguna si Payton Pritchard sa players nga may 21 points kun sa diin napasulod sini ang anum sa 12 ka tres.
Naka-12 puntos naman si Jayson Tatum kag may eight points si Jaylen Brown sa 19 minutos nga hampang sa court antes sila naghatag ligwa sa backups.
Magluwas sini nga international preseason game, magaatubangay pa liwat ang duha ka teams sa Etihad Arena buwas, Oktubre 6 (petsa sa Pilipinas).
Nagapanguna sa Nuggets ang Serbian superstar nga si Nikola Jokic nga three-time MVP kag ang Canadian guard nga si Jamal Murray.
Nagdugang sa ila puwersa ang veteran guard kag nine-time All-Star nga si Russell Westbrook kag isa pa ka Balkan nga si Dario Saric.
Preska naman ang Boston sa panibag-o nga record sang nakuha sini ang ila ika-18 na nga korona sa NBA nga una man nga titulo halin sang 2008 sang ginporma na ang super team nanday star forwards Jayson Tatum kag Jaylen Brown kag guards nga sanday Jrue Holiday kag Derrick White kag ang Latvian Center nga si Kristaps Porzingis.#
Luka Doncic, may calf injury kadungan sang pagbukas sang training camp sang Mavs
Wala pa pormal nga nakasugod ang 2024-2025 regular season sa National Basketball Association (NBA) apang nagasuprer na sang injury ang Dallas Mavericks superstar guard nga si Luka Doncic.
Suno sa Mavs, indi makatambong sa isa ka semana nga pre-season preparation si Doncic bangud sa left calf contusion nga naangkon sini sa training.
Natalana man nga iga-reevaulate ang kondisyon sang Slovenian star.
Sa Lunes pagabuksan sang Dallas ang pre-season campaign sini sa Lunes sa isa ka home game batok sa Memphis Grizzlies.
Sa Oktubre 24 naman, magasunod ang regular season sang Mavs batok kay Victor Wembanyama kag sa San Antonio Spurs kag ginalaauman nga maka-recover na si Luka.
May average si Doncic nga 33.9 points, 9.2 rebounds kag 9.8 assists per game sang nagligad nga season nga nagbulig sa Mavericks nga makalab-ot sa 2024 NBA Finals apang ginkabos batok kanday Jayson Tatum, Jaylen Brown, kag Boston Celtics nga amo ang nagkampyon.
Kampyonato naman ang target ni Doncic sa iya ikapito nga season kaupod sa Mavs.
Daku ang paglaum sang team ilabi na subong nga kaupod na nila ang four-time champion halin sa Golden State Warriors nga si Klay Thompson nga ginakilala nga isa sa greatest shooters sa NBA history.
Magluwas kay Thompson kag Doncic, yara man sa Mavs ang beterano nga eight-time All-Star nga si Kyrie Irving nga ginpaidalom man sa surgery bangud sa nabali nga wala nga butkon sang Hulyo.#
Caloy Yulo, nagsulod sa Philippine Navy Reserve Force
Panibag-o nga responsibilidad ang tungdan sang two-time Olympic gold medalist nga si Carlos Edriel “Caloy” Yulo matapos ini pormal na nga nagsulod sa Philippine Navy (PN) Reserve Force.
ang nagpanguna sa seremonya sang pagsumpa ni Yulo sa Navy headquarters sa Naval Station Jose Andrada, Roxas Boulevard, Manila, Oktubre 1.
Ginhatagan ang 23-anyos nga Pinoy gymnast sang rank nga Petty Officer 1st Class (PO1).
Pahayag ni Yulo, isa ka dungog para sa iya nga masuksok ang uniporme sang Navy kag isa man ka pribilehiyo nga ma-enlist sa Philippine Navy Reserve Force.
Ang induction kay Yulo ang kasunod sang padayon man nga pagpasangkad sang Pilipinas sa military capabilities sini kag ginapasulod man ang prominente nga mga indibidwal sa national service.
Bilang isa ka reservist, ginalauman nga magpasakop si Yulo sa training exercises kag mahimo ipatawag agud magbulig kun may yara sang national emergency.#
Natigayon nga maka-secure sang spot sa 2024 PBA Govenors’ Cup semifinals ang TNT matapos ginlutos ang NLEX, 125-96, sa hampang sa Ninoy Aquino Stadium.
Ang Import nga si Rondae Hollis-Jefferson ang nakahimo sang game-high 35 points para sa TNT samtang sanday Rey Nambatac kag RR Pogoy ang nakahimo sang 19 kag 18 points.
Ang napierde naman nga NLEX ang ginpangunahan ni Robert Bolick, nga may 25 points kag seven assists para sa iya last game subong nga conference.
NBA Global Ambassador kag Hall of Famer nga si Dikembe Mutombo, napatay na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 58-anyos ang Basketball Hall of Famer kag longtime NBA global ambassador nga si Dikembe Mutombo bangud sa brain cancer.
Suno pa sa NBA, napalibutan sang iya pamilya si Mutombo sang tion nga ginbawian ini sang kabuhi.
Nahibaluan nga ang amo nga Congolese center ang napilian nga NBA All-Star sang walo ka beses.
Ang iya seven-foot, two-inch nga kataason amo ang naghimo sa iya bilang isa sa pinakakilala nga shot-blockers sang liga nga apat ka beses na nga nahingadlan nga defensive player of the year.
18 ka tuig ang iya karera sa NBA nga nagsugod sang napilian siya nga pang-apat sang Denver Nuggets sa 1991 NBA Draft.
Magluwas sa Nuggets, nakahampang man siya sa Atlanta Hawks, Philadelphia 76ers, anay team nga New Jersey Nets, New York Knicks kag Houston Rockets.
Kun wala naman sa court, kilala si Mutombo sa iya mga humanitarian work — halimbawa ang Dikembe Mutombo Foundation nga natukod sang 1997 nga may mission nga mapaayo ang kabuhi kag edukasyon sa iya pungsod nga Congo.
2022 sang nagkumpirma si Mutombo nga nagapaidalom siya sa treatment sa Atlanta bangud sa brain tumor.
Bisan wala na ini, magapabilin ang iya pangalan kag legasiya sa court, santo sa statement ni Silver.
Gintalikdan sang 21-anyos nga Houston forward nga si AJ Griffin ang karera sini sa National Basketball Association (NBA) agud pasulabihon ang full-time ministry.
Sang 2022, matandaan nga ginpili sang Atlanta Hawks si Griffin sa first round sang NBA Draft.
Antes ang 2024-2025 season, nakahampang ini sang 92 games kag may average nga 7.5 puntos kag 17.1 minutes per game.
Sang offseason, gin-trade siya halin sa Hawks pakadto sa Houston Rockets, kabaylo sang 43rd overall pick nga si Nikola Durisic halin naman sa Miami Heat.
So, I’m just excited to see where that leads me,” paathag sini sa iya desisyon nga mag-retiro sang temprano.
Si Griffin nga tumandok sang Texas indi amo ang una nga NBA player nga nagdesisyon nga untaton ang karera sa basketball kag idedikar ang kabuhi sa pagtuo.
Sang 2019, matandaan nga nag-retiro man sa NBA ang veteran point guard nga si Darren Collison matapos ang 10 ka seasons agud nga matutukan ang iya pamilya kag pagtuluuhan.
Season 2 sang Ilonggo Professionals Football League, maga-umpisa na subong nga adlaw
ILOILO – Subong na nga adlaw, Setyembre 29 ang umpisa sang Season 2 sang Ilonggo Professionals Football League.
Doni Almio, Board Member sang nasambit nga liga, iya ginpahayag nga antes pa man ang pandemya, nag-umpisa na sila sa paghampang kada Dominggo.
Suno kay Almio, sang natapos na ang pandemya, mas nagdamo pa gid ang mga nag-upod sa ila sa paghampang sang football.
Ini man ang nagtulod sa ila nga magpatigayon sang liga sa diin ang Season 1 ang ginpatigayon anom ka bulan na ang nagligad nga ginabug-usan sang 6 ka mga teams.
Subong nga season, may 12 na ka mga teams kag ginabug-usan sang maximum sa 30 ka mga myembro.
Ginalakipan ini sang mga doctor, abogado, architects, politiko kag iban pa nga professionals.
Maga-umpisa ang hampang kada las 3:00 sang hapon tubtob las 6:00 sang gab-i kada Dominggo sa diin patigayunon ini sa Paulino Alcantara Football Field sa Hacienda Verde, Brgy.
Sa katapusan sang hampang, ang magadaog nga team ang magadala pauli sang trophy kag iban pa nga papremyo.
Napaidalom na sa inquest proceedings sa Sta.
Cruz Regional Trial Court ang Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) player nga si John Amores kag ang utod sini nga na-involve sa isa ka shooting incident sa Laguna.
Pananglitan makalusot ang reklamo nga attempted murder, mahimo nga kaso, kag madutlan ang mga ginreklamo, ang mag-utod nga Amores ang maga-atubang sang anum tubtub dose ka tuig nga pagka-preso.
Amo man ini ang makabig nga posible “premature end” sang basketball career ni Amores nga subong 24-anyos pa lamang.
Nag-ugat ang insidente sa isa ka basketball game sa Laguna kun sa diin may baisay nga natabo sa Barangay Maytalang Uno sa Lumban.
Pasado alas sais sang gab-i sang Miyerkules sang nagpalupok si Amores sang pusil kag gintuyo nga iguon ang kontra sini nga si Lee Cacalda.
Maswerte nga wala sang samad ang biktima apang nakit-an gid sa CCTV kun ano kadasig ang pagtal-as sini sang nagpalupok na ang suspek.
Alas dos sang kaagahon kahapon sang nagsungka ang mag-utod sa otoridad bangud sa ginaalegar mga pamahog sa ila kabuhi.
Suno sa basketball player, ginhaboy na nila ang pusil matapos ang shooting incident.
Wala pa sang kabug-usan nga statement kag desisyon ang PBA sa status ni Amores bangud nagapadayon pa ang imbestigasyon, apang nagpahayag si PBA commissioner Willie Marcial nga nasubuan gid sila sa nagluntad nga insidente.
Sang 2022, matandaan nga ginpiyestahan man ang pangalan ni Amores bangud estudyante pa lamang ini sa Jose Rizal University (JRU), nangtapungol na ini sang kasumpong nga players halin sa College of St.
Nagpromisa ini nga magbag-o kag na-draft pa sang NorthPort sa sixth round sang 2023 PBA Draft kag ginhatagan sang playing time nga may shooting guard position.
PBA player John Amores, ginaalegar nga na-involve sa shooting incident
Padayon ang pagpangita sang kapulisan sa Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) player nga si John Amores matapos ginaalegar na-involve ini sa isa ka shooting incident sa Laguna.
Base sa reports, ang gintiro sang nasambit nga NorthPort guard amo si certain Lee Cacalda, 37 anyos, kag ginapahayag nga isa ka seaman.
Base sa inisyal nga impormasyon halin sa Lumban Municipal Police Station, nagbaisay ang duha kasunod sang basketball game alas sais kagab-i, Septyembre 25, kag ginhangkat ni Amores si Cacalda sang tapungulay.
Sang nakalab-ot sila sa Barangay Maytalang Uno, nagpalupok na ang PBA player gamit ang wala pa matumod nga armas-luthang.
Maswerte nga wala sang naangkon nga mga samad si Cacalda, samtang base sa CCTV footage, nakit-an nga gilayon nga nagpalagyo si Amores.
Wala pa naghatag sang statement ang PBA samtang padayon pa ang imbestigasyon.
Matandaan nga duha ka tuig ang nagligad, kontrobersyal man si Amores bangud nag-amok ini sa hampang sa NCAA sang naga-eskwela pa siya sa Jose Rizal University.
Nangtapungol ini sang players sa College of St.
Benilde sang Season 98 rason nga ginkakas siya sa basketball program sang Heavy Bombers.
Apisar sang amo nga insidente, ginkuha siya sang NorthPort sa fifth round sang PBA Season 48 Rookie Draft kag nangin 51st overall pick.
Ini na ang iya ikaduha nga season sa PBA kasunod sa nagapadayon nga Governors’ Cup kag may average nga 5.1 points kag 1.6 rebounds.
Naghimo sang iya basketball comeback si Joe Devance matapos ang duha ka tuig nga pagpahuway.
Sa iya pagbalik, liwat ini nga magaupod sa Barangay Ginebra San Miguel Kings antes ang PBA Governors’ Cup quarterfinals.
Ang forward halin sa Escalante City, Negros Occidental, ang nag-anunsyo sang iya pagbalik sa Gin Kings paagi sa social media post kahapon sang hapon.
Ang pagbalik sang 42-anyos nga si Devance ang timing gid agud mapabaskog ang maluya nga frontline sang Gin Kings kasunod sang injuries nanday Jeremiah Gray, Jamie Malonzo, kag George Isaac Go.
Ang 6-foot-7 nga si Devance ang una na nagtapos sang iya 16-year PBA career sang June 2022, nga nagbiya sa professional league nga may 12 championships, sa idalom tanan ni Gin Kings head coach Tim Cone.
Ang Gin Kings magaatubang sa Meralco Bolts sa best-of-five quarterfinals umpisa sa Septyembre 27, sa Ninoy Aquino Stadium sa Manila.
Robert Jaworski, Tim Cone, lakip sa makabaton sang PBA Press Corps awards
Nalakip sanday Robert Jaworski, Coach Tim Cone, kag coaching staff sang Meralco Bolts sa pasidunggan sang PBA Press Corps sa annual awards night subong nga adlaw, Septyembre 24.
Ginakabig si Jaworski nga isa sa icons sa liga kag pagahatagan sang Lifetime Achievement Award.
Sa iya karera sa Pilipinas, si ‘Big J’ ang nangin Most Valuable Player sang 1978, nakadaog sang 13 titles, kag nalakipsa 25 Greatest Players of All-Time sang PBA kag na-induct sa 2005 Hall of Fame.
Sa pihak nga bahin, si Coach Tim sang Gilas Pilipinas ang hatagan naman sang President’s Award bangud sa dalagku nga kadalag-an sang national team lakip na ang upset batok sa Latvia sa FIBA Olympic Qualifying Tournament kun sa diin daog ang Pilipinas sa pagpanguna ni Justin Brownlee, 89-80.
Sa pihak nga bahin, magabaton ang Meralco coaching staff sang Baby Dalupan Coach of the Year Award bangud sa pagtib-ong sa Bolts sa Philippine Cup title batok sa San Miguel Beermen.
Ang amo nga titulo amo ang labing-una para sa ila nga prangkisa.
Ini man ang una nga tion nga hatagan sang pagkilala ang bilog gid nga coaching staff.
Nagdaog ang former world champion nga si Jerwin Ancajas sa iya comeback fight sa atubang sang Pinoy fans matapos na-disqualify ang kasumpong sini nga si Sukpraserd Ponpitak sang Thailand sa ika-lima nga round sang ila featherweight bout.
Natabo ang sambuwa sa Mandaluyong City College Gym nga co-main event sa Manny Pacquiao: Blow-by-Blow kagab-i, Septyembre 22.
Si Ancajas nga longtime former International Boxing Federation (IBF) minimumweight champion ang dominante na sa nauna nga rounds kag gintumba pa ang Thai boxer sa imbukada nga round paagi sa iya left hook.
Dalayon nga ginpa-untat sang referee ang hampang matapos ang dos minutos kag 34 segundos sa ika-lima nga round bangud ginatulod na paidalom sa canvas sang kasumpong ang Pinoy boxer nga isa na ka paglapas sa pagsulundan sang boxing.
Antes ginpauntat ang hampang, nabuhinan man sang puntos si Ponpitak sa third round bangud sa amo man sini nga hulag.
Apisar nagdaog, wala nakit-an nga nag-selebrar ang 32-anyos nga Filipino boxer bangud sa resulta sang hampang.
Desidido kuntani ini nga makabawi kag tumbahon gid ang kasumpong matapos ang iya makakilibot nga kalutusan batok kay Takuma Inoue sa Japan sang Pebrero subong nga tuig.
Nagsaka na subong sa 35-4-2 ang iya record nga may 23 knockouts, samtang ini naman ang ika-20 nga kalutusan sa karera sang Thai.
Ini nga hampang amo man ang featherweight debut ni Ancajas matapos pila ka beses nga nabudlayan sa iya bug-at sa pila ka matches sa super flyweight kun sa diin siya ang nangin IBF world champion halin 2016 tubtub sang 2022.
Nagaplano naman ang longtime trainer sini nga si Joven Jimenez kag ang MP Promotions head nga si Sean Gibbons nga mag-arrange sang hampang para kay Ancajas sa Disyembre.#
Nagapabilin sa Pilipinas ang World Boxing Council (WBC) minimumweight belt matapos ang madinalag-on nga title defense sang Filipino world champion nga si Melvin Jerusalem batok sa Mexican challenger nga si Luis Castillo.
Ginlutos ni Jerusalem ang kasumpong via unanimous decision sa dose ka rounds nga world title clash kagab-i, Septyembre 22, sa Manny Pacquiao Presents: Blow by Blow sa Mandaluyong City College Gym.
Sa imbukada pa lamang nga round, gintumba na sang 30-anyos nga Pinoy boxer si Castillo apang nakalampuwas ini tubtub sa katapusan nga round kag nagsalig na lang kuntani nga ma-knockout ang Pinoy para maagaw sini ang 105-pound world title.
Sa second round, napatupa sang Pinoy ang apat ka sunod-sunod nga rights apang naluwas sang bagting ang Mexican.
Napabilin ni Jerusalem ang pacing, madasig nga jab kag ang trademark sini nga right straight sa lawas kag ulo sang kasumpong nga amo man ang nakit-an sang tatlo ka judges kag nagpabor sa iya, 120-107, 120-107, kag 118-109.
Nagsaka na sa 23-3 ang professional boxing record ni Jerusalem nga may 12 knockouts samtang ini naman ang una nga mapait nga kalutusan ni Castillo sa iya professional career kag subong may opisyal na nga record nga 21-1-1 nga may 13 knockouts.
Ginpahayag naman ni Sanman Promotions head JC Manangquil nga tinguhaan nila nga maka-arrange sang unification bout para kay Jerusalem sa masunod nga tuig.#
Balantayan na subong nga adlaw, Septyembre 22, ang pagsaka sa ring sang reigning Filipino world champion nga si Melvin Jerusalem agud depensahan ang iya World Boxing Council (WBC) minimumweight crown.
Hingalitan ni Jerusalem ang home advantage sa sambuwa batok sa challenger nga si Luis Castillo halin sa Mexico.
Ang Blow by Blow sang Manny Pacquiao Promotions ang may yara sang 14 ka undercards nga magasugod ala una karon sa hapon antes ang Jerusalem-Castillo main event nga ginabanta alas syete karon sa gab-i sa Mandaluyong City College.
Pareho nga knockout ang target sang duha sa ila pag-atubangay karon.
Wala sang gin-mensyonar si Castillo kun ano nga round sini matumba ang Pinoy boxer, apang ginsiling sini nga kumpyansa siya nga madala-pauli ang korona sa Mexico.
Wala sang kalutusan ang 27-anyos nga southpaw sa 21 sini ka hampang, may 13 ka knockouts kag isa ka draw kag ginalantaw man nga gamiton sini ang height kag reach advantage batok sa 30-anyos nga pambato sang Pilipinas.
Gamiton naman ni Jerusalem ang iya natun-an sang una nga tion sini nga gintinguhaan nga depensahan ang iya World Boxing Organization (WBO) mini flyweight belt sang 2023 apang nalutos.
Espesyal ang sambuwa sang duha bangud ini ang una nga world title fight sa Pilipinas sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas kay Jerusalem, ang nabilin na lamang nga reigning Filipino world boxing titlist sa boxing amo si Pedro Taduran nga naga-uyat sang International Boxing Federation (IBF) 105-pound crown.
Sa pihak nga bahin, lakip sa Blow-by-Blow card ang former world super flyweight champion nga si Jerwin Ancajas nga magasaka man sa crucial comeback batok kay Sukpraserd Ponpitak sang Thailand kasunod sang sixth-round bantamweight bout defeat batok kay Takuma Inoue sa Tokyo.
Anak ni Chot nga si Josh Reyes, nag-resign bilang coach sang Gilas boys
Ginkumpirma sang Samahang Basketbol ng Pilipinas (SBP) nga nag-resign na ang head coach sang Gilas Pilipinas boys nga si Josh Reyes matapos ang masobra anum ka tuig nga pagtinir sa pwesto.
Bisan nagpanaog ini sa posisyon sa national team sang youth program, magapadayon ini sa pag-serbe sa seniors team bilang kabahin sang coaching staff ni coach Tim Cone.
Katapusan nga nakaupod si Reyes sa Gilas Boys sang nagpang-10 sila sa Fiba Under-18 Championship kag naghampang nga wala ang star player nga si Andy Gemao bangud sa hand fracture.
Siya man ang nag-coach sa team nga wala gid sang gindag-an sa 2024 FIBA Under-17 World Cup sa Istanbul, Turkiye kag amo ang ginkabig worst team sa tournament matapos nga wala man nakahampang si Kieffer Alas antes mag-umpisa ang sambuwa bangud sa injury.
Assistant coach siya sa program sang 2017 kag na-promote para sa U18 Asian Championship.
May duha man siya ka historic Fiba World Cup appearances para sa Gilas boys.
Suno kay Reyes nga anak ni anay Gilas men coach Chot, nagdesisyon siya nga magbiya sa pwesto para mahatagan sang dugang nga tiyempo ang iya pamilya.
Natalana pa nga gina-anunsyo ang masunod nga magabulos sa iya sa posisyon.
Jerusalem, Castillo, pareho nga target nga ma-KO ang isa kag isa sa world title clash
Pareho nga knockout ang target sang Filipino champion nga si Melvin Jerusalem kag Mexican challenger nga si Luis Castillo sa ila pagkitaay agud agawan ang World Boxing Council (WBC) minimumweight crown.
Matabo ang sambuwa sa Domingo, Septyembre 22, sa Mandaluyong City College.
Wala sang kalutusan ang 27-anyos nga southpaw sa 21 sini ka hampang, may 13 ka knockouts kag isa ka draw kag ginalantaw man nga gamiton sini ang height kag reach advantage batok kay Jerusalem.
Kumpyansa naman ang pambato sang Pilipinas nga nabasa na sini ang hulag sang kasumpong bangud madugay sini nga gin-sulit-sulit ang iya mga hampang.
Ini man ang una nga title defense sang Pinoy boxer sa kaugalingon nga pungsod, partikular para sa WBC belt, halin sang nadepensahan ni Manny Pacquiao ang iya WBC flyweight crown batok anay kay Gabriel Mira sang Mexico sa Araneta Coliseum sang 1999.
Gin-detain sang mga pulis sa Poland ang renowned Ukrainian boxer kag heavyweight boxing champion nga si Oleksandr Usyk samtang yara ini sa Krakow airport.
Ginkumpirma ini ni Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy kun sa diin ginpahayag sini nga wala siya nanamian sa pag-tratar sa ila champion apisar pa nga gin-hilway man ini gilayon.
Wala sang ginhatag nga detalye ang presidente apang nagguwa sa reports sang ulihi nga gin-detain si Usyk sang Polish police matapos ini nag-protesta batok sa sala nga akusasyon batok sa iya abyan sa airport.
Ginbatuan sini ang pahayag sang staff sa airport nga hubog ang iya abyan kag indi mahimo makabyahe — bagay nga napamatud-an nga sala bangud gin-check ang iya abyan sa “deep alcohol intoxication” kag negatibo ang resulta.
Bangud sa hitabo, nagtulog si Usyk kag ang abyan sini sa Poland sa sulod sang isa ka gab-i antes nagkadto sa Thessaloniki sa Greece.
Ang 37-anyos nga boksidor nga Olympic gold medalist sang 2012 ang kilala bilang isa sa pina-prominente nga atleta sa Ukraine kag sa luwas sang pungsod kag nagpasakop man kag nag-organisar anay sang mga proyekto nga naangot sa pagpamatok sa Russian invasion.
Nangin mas popular siya sang ginlutos niya si Tyson Fury sang Mayo sa Saudi Arabia kag nangin una nga undisputed world heavyweight champion sa sulod sang 24 ka tuig.
Makaligad sini, ginbakante man ni Usyk ang amo nga undisputed title matapos nga wala sini gin-atubang ang iya mandatory challenger kag sa baylo, nagpasugot nga magsambuwa liwat kay Fury sa isa ka rematch nga natalana sa Disyembre 21 sa Saudi Arabia sa gihapon.
Magluwas nga WBC, WBA kag WBO heavyweight champion, isa man ka undisputed champion si Usyk sa cruiserweight kag wala sang kalutusan sa sulod sang 22 ka mga hampang.
Natalana nga hingalitan sang Filipino boxer nga si Melvin Jerusalem ang hometown advantage sa iya pagdepensa sang ginauyatan nga World Boxing Council (WBC) minimumweight title batok sa undefeated Mexican nga si Luis Angel Castillo sa Mandaluyong City College sa Domingo, Septyembre 22.
Ini ang mandatory defense ni Jerusalem matapos nagdaug sang belt kag napatilaw sa Japanese nga si Yudai Shigeoka ang una nga kapierdehan via split decision sang Marso 31 sa Nagoya, Japan.
Suno kay Michael Domingo, trainer sang Pinoy boxer, nahibaluan na nila nga si Castillo ang mangin mandatory challenger humalin sang nagdaug siya gani ila ini ginpreparahan sadto pa.
Samtang, apisar ini ang first career title shot ni Castillo kag pinakauna nga away sa gwa sang iya pungsod, dako ang pagsalig sang 27-anyos nga Mexican nga mangibabaw ini batok kay Melvin.
Naghiwat ang Malacañang sang concert kagab-i, Septyembre 15, agud nga suguran ang isa ka tuig nga countdown para sa maragtason nga pag-host sang Pilipinas sang FIVB Men’s Volleyball World Championship sa 2025.
Gin-imbitar ang players sang national team nga Alas Pilipinas sa event nga ginpangunahan man mismo ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Lakip sa performers amo ang Filipino singers nga nagpasakop sa World Championships of Performing Arts amo man ang laser lights kag LED artists.
Matabo ang World Championship sa September 12 – 28 sa masunod nga tuig nga amo ang una nga bes nga maga-host ang Pilipinas kag una man nga tion sa bilog nga Southeast Asia.
Bilang host country, awtomatiko nga naka-qualify ang Pilipinas kaupod sa defending champion nga Italy.
Sa draw sang nagligad nga gab-i, nagtupa ang Pilipinas sa Pool A kun sa diin makasambuwa sini ang Iran, Egypt, kag Tunisia sa imbukada nga mga hampang.
Alas Pilipinas, na-grupo kaupod ang Iran, Egypt, kag Tunisia sa FIVB World Championship
Mangin mabudlay ang banas sang Alas Pilipinas sa imbukada pa lang nga round sang FIVB Men’s Volleyball World Championship 2025 matapos nga nagrupo ini kaupod ang Iran, Egypt, kag Tunisia.
Awtomatiko nga yara sa Pool A ang Pilipinas bangud amo ini ang host country, samtang nagguwa naman ang mga pangalan sang tatlo ka pungsod sang ginpatigayon ang draw kagab-i, Septyembre 14.
Natalana ang world championships sa Smart Araneta Coliseum kag Mall of Asia Arena sa September 12-28 sa masunod nga tuig.
Ang Alas ang subong napaidalom kay Italian coach Angiolino Frigoni kag nagapang-64 sa world rankings.
World No.15 kag Asian championship runner-up naman ang Iran; World No.20 kag African champion ang Egypt; samtang 11-time African titlist ang Tunisia nga amo man ang World No.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginlapta naman kagab-i ang iban pa nga top-ranked teams sa pito ka iban pa nga mga grupo kun sa diin nagtupa ang World No.1 nga Poland sa Pool B kaupod ang Netherlands, Qatar, kag Romania.
Nagapanguna naman sa Group C ang Olympic champion France kaupod ang Argentina, Finland, kag South Korea.
Atubangon sang Team USA ang Cuba, Portugal, kag Colombia sa Group D.
Masambuwa naman ang Slovenia sa Pool E kaupod ang Germany, Bulgaria, kag Chile, samtang ang defending world champion nga Italy ang nabutang sa Pool F kaupod ang Ukraine, Belgium, kag Algeria.
Sa Pool G naman ang fan favorite nga Japan kaupod sa Canada, Turkiye, kag Libya, samtang ang Brazil ang magahampang batok sa Serbia, Czechia, kag China sa Pool H.
Ang duha ka nagapanguna nga teams sa kada pool amo ang maga-abanse sa knockout stage sang competition.
Magluwas sa draw, ginpatigayon man kagab-i ang official turnover sang FIVB trophy sa Philippine Local Organizing Committee sa pagpanguna ni Co-Chairperson William Vincent Araneta Marcos kag Senator Alan Peter Cayetano.
Maragtason ini nga hinampang bangud ini ang labing-una nga tion nga maga-host ang Pilipinas sa World Championships kag una man ini sa Southeast Asia.
Liwat nga nahambalan sa social media ang ginaalegar relasyon sang aktres nga si Kathryn Bernardo kay Lucena City Mayor Mark Alcala matapos nakit-an sila nga magkaupod sa Thailand.
Spotted ang rumored couple nga magka-holding hands samtang yara sa Suvarnabhumi Airport sa Bangkok sang Marso 31.
Gin-share man sang fan pages ang pictures.
Makit-an nga all-smiles ang duha samtang naga-istorya sa ila mga upod.
May nagaguwa man nga reports nga yara na sanday Kathryn kag ang alkalde sa Thailand sa sulod na sang isa ka semana kag lakip sa ila nabisitahan amo ang Chiang Mai kag Bangkok antes ang ila masunod nga destinasyon (nga ginapahayag Bhutan) para sa camping trip.
Sa separado nga Instagram video ni Kathryn sang Abril 3, ginpakita sini ang pila ka videos sang ila byahe sa Thailand kaupod ang iya glam team.
“Tom yum is life,” pahayag sini sa caption nga nagatumod sa Thai dish nga iya ginkaon sa amo nga Southeast Asian country.
Indi ini ang una nga tion nga nakit-an sila nga magkaupod.
Spotted man anay ang rumored couple sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport, sa upscale restaurants, kag sa iban pa nga mga lokasyon sa Pilipinas, apang ang pictures sa Thailand ang ginasiling sang netizens nga “most telling” ukon pa-“soft launch” sang duha.
May fans nga nagpabutyag sang kalipay para kay Kathryn samtang may iban naman nga napataas-kilay ilabi na sa nature sang trabaho ni Alcala bilang local government official nga ginalauman nga magatungod sang iya responsibilidad sa iya syudad ilabi na sa tunga sang sampaw-sampaw nga mga epekto sang socio-economic crisis.
2025 pa sang nagguwa ang dating rumors kanday Kathryn kag Alcala, apang wala pa sang official confirmation ukon denial halin sa magtimbang nga kampo.#
Ginpakigbahin sang American actor nga si Jonathan Roumie ang behind-the-scenes photos sang season 5 sang “The Chosen” kadungan sang Domingo de Ramos ukon Palm Sunday.
Sa mga laragway, makit-an ang aktor nga nagasakay sa asno nga pareho sa istorya sa Bibliya sang nagsulod si Hesus sa Jerusalem.
Praise our King,” pahayag sini sa iya nga post.
Nagpanawagan man ang aktor nga magpangamuyo para sa kalinong kadungan sang Semana Santa.
Ginpangabay man sini nga ipangamuyo ang mga pigado.
Sa personal nga repleksyon, gin-share sini nga ang “The Chosen” amo ang nakabulig sa iya nga mapapag-on ang iya pagtuo kag makapalapit pa sa Ginuo.
Ini nga show ang una nga authentic long‑form series kaangot sa kabuhi kag mga ginatudlo ni Hesukristo.
Naga-film na ini subong sang seventh season.
Ang Palm Sunday naman amo ang panugod sang Semana Santa.
Ginakomemorar sini ang pag-abot ni Hesus sa Jerusalem sang naghinugyaw ang mga tawo, gintawag siya nga Messiah, kag ginwagayway ang mga ramos bilang pagpasidungog sa iya.#
LANY, nagdugang sang ikaduha nga petsa para sa ila “soft” world tour sa Cebu
Nagdugang ang American pop-rock band nga LANY sang ikaduha nga petsa para sa ila “soft” world tour sa Cebu.
Ini ang ginkumpirma sang Live Nation Philippines sa ila official social media post nga tuman naman nga ginkalipay sang mga fans sang amo nga banda.
Ini ang ikaduha nga kahigayunan nga nagdugang sang show ang LANY sa Pilipinas, kasunod sang pagdugang sang petsa sa ila concert sa Philippine Arena.
Sa kabilugan, magahiwat ang LANY sang ila concert sa Nobyembre 7 kag 8 sa Bulacan, Nobyembre 6 kag 12 sa Cebu kag Nobyembre 14 sa Davao.
Celebrity athletes kag rumored couple nga sanday Juliana Gomez kag Ricci Rivero, spotted nga naga-bonding sa isa ka restaurant
Kaangay nga nagadalom na ang relasyon sang mga celebrity athletes nga sanday Juliana Gomez kag Ricci Rivero matapos makita ang rumored couple nga naga-bonding sa isa ka restaurant upod sa amay ni Juliana nga si Richard Gomez.
Makit-an sa mga laragway nga naga-enjoy ang mga ini sa ila pagkaon upod ang pila ka mga abyan sini.
Sa mga litrato, tupaday nga nagapungko sanday Juliana kag Ricci, samtang si Richard naman ang nahamtang sa pihak nga bahin sang lamesa .
Una nga naggwa ang mga espekulasyon sang ila relasyon sang nagligad nga tuig matapos sila makita nga magka-upod sa pila ka okasyon.
Isa na diri sang nagkadto kag gin-suportahan ni Ricci si Juliana sa iya fencing game sa 33rd Southeast Asian Games sa Thailand.
Nakita man ang duha sang Enero sa isa ka shopping mall nga magka-holding hands samtang nagalakat.
Sa subong, wala pa ginakumpirma nanday Juliana kag Ricci ang matuod nga estado sang ila relasyon.
Maine Mendoza kag Arjo Atayde, bulagay na?
Ginklaro sang kampo sang mga Atayde nga naglain lang ang pamatyag ni Maine Mendoza gani nga wala ini nakatambong sa espesyal nga okasyon sang ila pamilya sang damlag lang.
Absent si Maine sa birthday celebration nanday Art kag Ria Atayde nga amo ang nagdabok sang huring-huring sa social media nga may problema sa relasyon sang host-actress kay Arjo Atayde.
Sabat naman sang official showbiz PR sang pamilya Atayde nga si Chuck Gomez, may masakit lang si Maine.
Wala ini sang ginhatag nga dugang nga detalye.
Matandaan nga gin-post ni Bayani Agbayani sa TikTok ang video sang birthday celebration, kag sang madamo na ang namangkot kun sa diin si Maine, gin-delete niya ini.
Depensa sini, siya mismo ang nagdesisyon nga i-delete ang video bangud nareyalisar sini nga pribado ini nga okasyon.
Ginpahayag man sini nga naglain ang pamatyag ni Maine sang amo nga adlaw.
Sang birthday celebration sang aktres sang Marso 3, wala man sang bisan isa ka post nga yara ang iya bana.
Sang Marso 5, nag-post man ang host-actress sang mga picture kag wala gihapon si Congressman Arjo Atayde.
Sang Marso 14, gindugang ni Maine ang post sang iya trip sa Vietnam kaupod ang iya mga abyan nga may caption nga “hcm on film.”
Wala pa sang opisyal nga sabat halin mismo sa mag-asawa kaangot sa amo nga isyu.
Matandaan nga ginkasal ang celebrity couple sang Hulyo 28, 2023 sa isa ka intimate ceremony sa Alphaland Baguio Mountain Lodges Chapel.
Antes sang kasal, masobra apat ka tuig sila nga nag-updanay bilang magkarelasyon.#
Patricia Lynn Beerda sang Iloilo City, nalakip sa 36 candidates sa Binibining Pilipinas 2026
Nalakip ang pambato sang Iloilo City nga si Patricia Lynn Beerda sa 36 ka mga beauty queen para sa 2026 batch sang Binibining Pilipinas pageant.
Gin-anunsyo ini sang Binibining Pilipinas Charities Inc.
(BPCI) matapos ang final screening nga ginpatigayon sa ginatos nga mga nag-apply.
Sa ginhiwat nga Miss Iloilo 2026, gintiglawas ni Beerda ang distrito sang La Paz kag sang ulihi ginkoronahan ini nga Miss Iloilo Paraw Binibini.
Isa na sa makabig pageant veterans sa Iloilo si Beerda nga may yara sang exposure sa national stage matapos ini nagdaog man anay bilang runner-up sa 2019 Miss Teen Philippines.
Lakip man sa balantayan sa Binibining Pilipinas subong nga tuig amo ang Miss Universe Philippines semifinalists nga sanday Gwendoline Meliz Soriano, Jarina Sandhu, kag Sasha Lacuna.
Duha ka titulo ang mahimo makuha sa sini nga pageant nga amo ang Bb.
Pilipinas Globe, kag may yara man sang duha ka runners-up.
Ini na ang ika-62 nga tuig sang Binibining Pilipinas.
Sang ini pa ang naga-uyat sang Miss Universe franchise sa Pilipinas, naka-produce ini sang apat ka Filipina Miss Universe winners nga amo sanday Gloria Diaz (1969), Margie Moran (1973), Pia Wurtzbach (2015), kag Catriona Gray (2018)
Aktres nga si Bela Padilla, nagalaom sang mas maayo nga oportunidad para sa mga Filipino filmmakers
Nagalaom ang aktres nga si Bela Padilla sang mas maayo nga oportunidad para sa mga Filipino filmmakers sa idalum sang ginaproponer nga layi para diri.
Matapos makapartisipar sa isa ka hearing para sa ginaproponer nga layi nga nagasuporta sa local filmmakers, ginpakigbahin sini sa iya sa social media ang iya nga suhestiyon kun paano masolusyunan ang madugay na nga problema sa industriya sang pelikula sa Pilipinas.
Ginpahayag sini nga apisar ginapabugal sang international audience ang kalidad sang ila gina-obra nga pelikula apisar nga low budget ini, nabatyagan sini sa gihapon ang kakulangan sang suporta halin sa local industry.
Suno pa sa actress nga kinahanglan suportahan sang mga mamalidha nga nagapatigayon sang sini nga layi ang fair equity para sa creatives kag producers, pati na ang seguridad kag representasyon sang kababainhan sa set.
Dugang pa sini nga malayo pa ang ila nga dapat lakton sa amo nga pangabay sa gobyerno, apang suno pa sa iya nga kun mapasar kag mapatuman sang husto ang ini nga layi makabulig gid ini sa ila nga mga filmmakers.
Koronasyon sang Miss Universe Philippines 2026, naka-schedule sa Mayo 1
Gin-schedule sa Mayo 1 ang koronasyon sang Miss Universe Philippines 2026.
Suno sa MUP organization, patigayunon ang seremonya sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Wala pa sang detalye nga nahatag kaangot sa baligyaanay sang tickets, amo man ang hosts, performers, kag iban pa nga celebrity guests.
Matandaan nga sa amo man nga venue sang nagligad nga tuig sang ginkoronahan si Miss Universe Philippines 2025 Ma.
51 delegates halin sa Pilipinas kag sa overseas Filipino communities ang maga-compete agud nga mangin successor ni Ahtisa.
Kaangay sa nagligad nga mga tinuig, madamo sang international pageant veterans nga balantayan subong nga edisyon kaangay kanday Miss Earth Water titleholders Bea Millan-Windorski kag Roxie Baeyens, kag Miss International runner-up Nicole Borromeo.
Nagbalik man sa national competition ang 2020 runner-up nga si Ysabella Ysmael kag 2020 finalist Apriel Smith.
Ang magadaog sa Mayo 1 amo ang magatiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Miss Universe 2026 competition sa Nobyembre.
Singer nga si Gigi De Lana, ginpakigbahin nga na-diagnose ini nga may pericarditis
Ginpakigbahin sang singer nga si Gigi De Lana sa iya social media nga na-diagnose ini nga may pericarditis.
Ini isa ka kondisyon kun sa diin nagakaapektuhan ang lining sang palibot sang iya tagipusuon.
Suno sa singer nga ang sakit ang nagatuga sang gulpiyada kag makahaladlok nga pagpin-ot sang dughan.
Dugang pa sini nga nagapaidalum na siya sa karun sa pagpabulong kag maid-id nga monitoring sang iya doctor.
Tuman naman ang pasalamat sang singer sa iya mga fans nga padayon nga nagasuporta sa iya kag nagpasalig nga magapaayo ini agud nga makabalik sa entablado.
Madumduman nga si De Lana ang nalipong sa tunga sang iya concert sa Samal Island sang nagligad nga semana nga naghatag man sang dako nga palapamangkutanon sa iya mga fans tuhoy sa iya ikaayong lawas.
Legal counsel ni Anne Curtis, ginkondenar ang pahayag ni Cong.
Ginkondenar sang legal counsel ni Anne Curtis ang mga ginbuy-an nga mga pahayag ni Congressman Bong Suntay nahanungod sa aktres kadungan sang ila committee hearing sa Kamara.
Ginlaragway sang abogado nga ”inappropriate ukon unacceptable” ang pahayag ni Suntay kaangot sa iya desire kag imagination sang nakita sini si Anne.
Suno sa sulat nga ginpadala sang legal counsel ni Anne, ang pagdalahig sa pangalan sang aktres nagapakita lamang sang isa ka indi manami kag wala nagakaangay nga topiko sa hearing sang Kongreso.
Gindugang pa sang kampo sang aktres nga ang amo sini nga mga pahayag nagapakanubo sang dignidad sang kababa-inhan kag wala ini lugar sa bisan ano nga forum, ilabi na sa Kongreso kun sa diin ginapaabot ang mga opisyal magpakita sang respeto.
Ginpahanumdom man sang legal counsel ni Anne ang importansya sang pag-promote sang pagrespeto kag dignidad sang kababa-inhan, nga ginakilala nga layi sang Pilipinas kaangay sang Safe Spaces Act kag Magna Carta of Women.
Samtang, nagreact man ang manghod ni Anne nga si Jasmine Curtis-Smith kag ang ila iloy batok sa ginbuy-an nga komento, samtang madamo man nga celebrities ang nagpahayag sang ila pagkadismaya sa social media.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpangayo man sang pasaylo ang asawa sang mamalidha nga si Sheila Guevara Suntay kay Anne kag sa iya pamilya, kag nagpahayag nga wala sang babayi nga dapat hambalan sang kaangay nga mga tinaga.
Nagpangabay man ini sa publiko nga indi pagdalahigon ang iya mga kabatan bangud wala ang mga ini sang ihibalo sa nabuhat nga sala sang ila amay.
Kampo ni Sandara Park, ginpanginwala ang alegasyon sang drug abuse
Ginpanginwala sang kampo sang South Korean singer, actress, kag television presenter nga si Sandara Park ang alegasyon nga nagagamit ini sang iligal nga droga.
Kasunod ini sang akusasyon nga halin mismo sa 2NE1 bandmate sini nga si Park Bom.
Suno sa team ni Dara, “groundless” ang alegasyon, apang nagakahangawa man ini sa ikaayong-lawas sang iya nga bandmate.
Matandaan nga gin-claim ni Park Bom nga gingamit lang siya nga cover-up agud nga indi masapubliko ang ginaalegar drug abuse ni Dara.
Sang 2010, gin-akusaran si Bom nga nag-import sang 82 pills sang Adderall.
Gina-regulate sa South Korea ang amo nga drugs bangud sa amphetamine content.
Gin-dismiss ang kaso bangud gin-clarify sang singer nga gingamit niya ang bulong agud nga ma-treat ang iya nga Attention Deficit Disorder.
Sa iya naman alegasyon subong, ginpahayag ni Park Bom nga gingamit lang siya bilang scapegoat bangud si Dara ang matuod nga nagagamit sang drugs.
Matandaan nga natabo ang debut nanday Bom kag Dara bilang myembro sang K-pop girl group nga 2NE1 kaupod kanday CL kag Minzy.
Antes sa South Korea, nakilala anay si Dara sa Pilipinas paagi sa reality talent competition nga “Star Circle Quest” sang 2004 kun sa diin ginsuguran sini ang iya nga acting kag singing career.
Apisar sang global fame, nagabalik-balik ini sa Philippine television kag nakapungko man bilang judge sa 2016 talent competition nga “Pinoy Boyband Superstar,” kag gina-akomodar man sini ang guest appearances sa nagkalain-lain nga variety kag talk shows.#
Engaged na si Miss International 2013 Bea Santiago sa iya partner nga si Kurt Cheng.
Gin-share sini sa Instagram ang mga laragway sang pag-propose ni Cheng samtang yara sila sa San Francisco, California.
Matandaan nga si Bea amo ang nakadala-pauli sang ikalima nga Miss International crown para sa Pilipinas sang 2013.
Sunod sini nga ginpadayon ang iya karera bilang host kag news anchor.
Nakit-an man siya sa acting partikular sa series nga “A Love to Last.”
Nangin bukas man si Bea sa publiko kun paano siya naka-recover bilang isa ka transplant survivor matapos siya na-diagnose nga may kidney failure sa edad nga 28.
Michelle Dee, nagpasaka sang cyberlibel complaint vs Xian Gaza
Nagdangop ang aktres kag beauty queen nga si Michelle Dee sa National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) agud magpasaka sang panumbungon nga cyber libel batok sa online influencer nga si Xian Gaza.
Suno kay Michelle, nagpalapta si Xian sang “misleading” nga mga impormasyon nga naga-involve sang iya pangalan.
Ginlakip man ang tatlo ka iban pa nga Facebook pages sa iya nga complaint.
Isa sa sini nga pages ang nag-alegar nga nagpalagyo na si Michelle sa iban nga pungsod.
Suno sa abogado ni Michelle nga si Atty.
Ginpahayag man sang aktres nga bisan isa siya ka public figure, indi ini mahimo gamiton nga excuse agud nga gub-on ang iya pangalan paagi sa fake news.
Nagsabat naman si Xian paagi sa isa ka online post nga “strategic” ang pag-file ni Michelle sang kaso kag mahimo nga makaagaw sang atensyon sang publiko halin sa matuod nga gid nga kaso sini.
Para ma-divert kay Xian Gaza Libel yung buong issue at malayo sa driver na binugbog nila at dinetain illegally.
The news headlines will become Michelle Dee VS Xian Gaza tapos siya na ngayon yung biktima na lumalaban.
Ilang taon ng maingay yung issue na yan.
The truth is, nasira yung pangalan niya ng dahil kay Kuya Driver so kailangan nila ako ngayong kasuhan for damage control,” suno sa online influencer.
Nahibaluan nga antes sini, na-involve sa kontrobersiya si Michelle kag ang iya mga abyan nga sanday Rhian Ramos kag Samantha Panlilio matapos gin-akusaran sila sang driver ni Rhian nga pagpang-torture nga ginaalegar natabo mismo sa condo ni Michelle sang Enero.
Lunsay nanginwala ang tatlo sa amo nga akusasyon.#
World tour shows sang BTS, iga-stream sa mga sinehan sa bilog nga kalibutan
Iga-livestream sang K-pop giant nga BTS ang opening shows sang ila nga bag-o nga world tour nga “Arirang” sa mga sinehan sa South Korea kag sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Suno sa ila agency nga BigHit Music,iga-feature sang screenings ang concert sang grupo sa Goyang sa Abril 11 kag a Japan sa Abril 18.
Makit-an ini sa masobra sa 3,500 ka mga sinehan sa 75 ka mga pungsod.
Gintawag man ini sang BigHit nga “biggest world tour ever” sang isa ka K-pop act kun sa diin may 82 concerts sa 34 ka mga syudad sa kalibutan.
Sold out naman ang tickets sang BTS para sa 41 shows sa North America kag sa Europa.
Ang BTS man ang mangin una nga Korean act nga magapatigayon sang standalone concerts sa major global stadiums lakip na sa Raymond James Stadium sa Tampa, Stanford Stadium sa California, AT&T Stadium sa Arlington, kag Allianz Arena sa Munich.
Ini nga tour ang kasunod sang ikalima nga full-length album sang grupo nga ginatawag nga “Arirang” nga natalana nga ipaguwa sa Marso 20.
Ice Seguerra kag Liza Diño, ginkasadya ang pag-kilala sa co-ownership para sa same-sex couple
Ginkasadya sang LGBTQ+ celebrity couple nga sanday Ice Seguerra kag Liza Diño ang desisyon sang Korte Suprema nga nagakilala sang co-ownership sang mga propidad para sa mga same-sex couple nga upod nagapuyo sa isa ka balay.
Base sa ruling nga ginpasar sang Korte Suprema, pwede kilalahon bilang co-owners ang mga same-sex partners base sa ila aktuwal nga kontribusyon sa propidad nga ila ginapanag-iyahan.
Ginklaro man sang ini nga layi nga ang gintingob nga mga propidad sang same-sex couple nadala sa article 148 kun sa diin pareho sang mga ini nga matingob ang ila propidad apisar indi pa legal ang pagpakasal sang same-sex couple.
Nahibaluan nga ginkasal si Aiza Seguera kag Liza Diño sang tuig 2024 sa California kun sa diin legal ang same sex marriage
Masobra isa ka dekada na nga naga-upod si Seguerra kag Diño kun sa diin kilala ang mga ini nga nagapakigbato sa mga kinamatarong sang LGBTQ+.
Kris Aquino, nagpasalamat sa iya ex-boyfriend nga doctor nga nagbulig sa iya sa ospital
Ginpasalamatan ni Kris Aquino ang iya ex-boyfriend nga si Dr.
Mike Padlan nga nagbulig sa pagtatap sa iya samtang ginabatuan sini ang iya 11 ka autoimmune diseases.
Kabahin ini sang statement ni Kris matapos ginkumpirma nga nakaguwa na siya sa ospital kag nakasaylo sa iya bag-o nga puluy-an matapos ang anum ka semana nga pagtinir sa balay bululngan kag pagpaidalom sa isa ka minor surgery.
Mike bilang “one call away” sang Christmas nga nakahibalo gilayon sang husto nga mga doktor nga makabulig sa iya nga kondisyon.
Pahayag ni Kris, bilog nga kabuhi sini nga tamdon ang kabalaslan kay Dr.
Mike bangud kun wala ini, pat-od nga wala naman siya subong bangud sang mga hitabo sang Disyembre 25 kag 26.
Dugang niya, bisan nga natapos man ang ila relasyon bilang magkahagugma, nagpabilin naman ang ila koneksyon bilang physician kag pasyente.
Nag-umpisa ang ila relasyon sang 2024, apang nagbulagay man pagkasunod nga tuig.
Sa bahin sang iya ikaayong lawas, ginlaragway ni Kris ang iya kaugalingon subong nga “super lampa” ukon “super frail” ukon tuman pa kahina.
Una na sini ginpakigbahin nga nagasuprer siya sang deep vein thrombosis magluwas pa sang iya nga autoimmune conditions.
Isa ka man sa nagdaku sa mga kanta sang SexBomb Girls?
Wala pa natapos ang ila nga reunion show bangud ila gin-anunsyo nga may ara pa gid sila sang “Round 6!”
Round 5 show sini nga Domingo, ginpahayag sang grupo nga may Round 6 ang ila in-demand nga concert.
Samtang, gin-anunsyo man nga may palaabuton nga world tour ang grupo, apang wala pa sang detalye kun san-o ini pagahimuon kag kun diin nga mga pungsod.
Una nga ginhiwat ang SexBomb Girls reunion concert sa Araneta Coliseum sang Disyembre 4, kag ginsundan sang ikaduha nga show Mall of Asia Arena sang Disyembre 9.
Ang ikatlo, ika-apat, kag ikalima nga shows ginhiwat man sa MOA Arena sang Pebrero 6, 7, kag 8.
Kilala ang SexBomb Girls nga ginabug-usan nanday Rochelle Pangilinan, Jopay Paguia, Mia Pangyarihan, Aira Bermudez, Sunshine Garcia, Aifha Medina, Weng Ibarra, kag iban pa.
Magluwas sa ila abilidad sa pagsaot, bantog man sila sa ila nga hit songs pareho sang “The Spaghetti Song,” “Halukay Ube,” kag iban pa gid.
3 Doors Down lead singer nga si Brad Arnold, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 47-anyos si Brad Arnold nga founder kag lead singer sang American rock band nga 3 Doors Down .
Natabo ini siyam ka bulan matapos ginsapubliko sang singer nga na-diagnose siya nga may Stage 4 kidney cancer.
Mayo 2025 sang ginkumpirma ni Arnold nga may yara siya sang advanced-stage clear cell renal carcinoma (ccRCC)nga naglapta na sa isa sa iya lungs.
Ini amo ang pinaka-common nga sahi sang kidney cancer suno sa National Cancer Institute nga ang sintomas nagalakip sang tuman nga sakit, pagniwang, kag hilanat.
Bangud sadto, ginkanselar sang 3 Doors Down ang ila plano nga 2025 summer tour.
Gintukod ang banda sang 1996 sa Escatawpa, Mississippi, kag nangin popular sang 2000 paagi sa ginsulat ni Arnold nga single nga “Kryptonite.” Lakip sa iban nila nga hits amo ang “When I’m Gone” kag “Here Without You.”
Luwas kay Arnold, yara ang bassist nga si Todd Harrell, ang lead guitar kag backup singer nga si Matt Roberts, kag sang ulihi gin-updan sila ni Chris Henderson nga amo naman ang sa rhythm guitar kag singing backup vocals.
Sang 2017, nag-perform man ang 3 Doors Down sa una nga inauguration concert ni President Donald Trump.
Miss International 2016 nga si Kylie Verzosa, engaged na sa iya non-showbiz fiancée
Engaged na ang model-actress kag Miss International 2016 nga si Kylie Verzosa sa iya non-showbiz fiancée nga si Emil Eriksen.
Sa Instagram post ni Kylie, ginpakigbahin sini ang mga laragway nga suksok ang iya engagement ring.
Suno pa sa post, nangin magkahagugma si Kylie kag Emil sang halos tatlo ka tuig kag ginpasapubliko ini ni Kylie paagi sa isa ka TikTok video sang tuig 2024.
Halin nga nangin opisyal na ang ila relasyon, mag-kaupod na sila nga magtravel sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar kaangay sang France kag Japan.
Nahibaluan nga nangin karelasyon man ni Kylie sang una ang aktor nga si Jake Cuenca kag nagbulagay ang mga ini sang tuig 2022.
Maria, ginpakigbahin ang iya pag-travel sa pito ka kontinente sang kalibutan
Ginpakigbahin sang aktress nga si Jodi Sta Maria ang iya pagkadto sa pito ka kontinente sang kalibutan kaangay sang Asia, Oceania, North America, South America, Europe, Africa, kag Antarctica.
Sa iya Instagram post gin-share sini nga nakumpleto na sini kadto ang pito ka mga Kontinente.
Suno pa sa iya nga ang bata lang sang una nga nagapangamuyo kag nagahandom nga makadtuan ang mga ini nga mga lugar natuman na sini bangud ini nagpati kag nagpadayon.
Ginsiguro man sini nga makadtuan ang mga kilala nga tourist destination sang tagsa ka kontinente nga iya ginlagawan.
Nagpahanumdom man ini sa iya mga fans nga handom lang ini niya sang una kag suno pa sa iya nga ang tagsa ka dreamer dapat magpadayon man kag magpati sa ila mga handom anuman ang matabo.
Gilayon naman nga nag-ani ini sang mga komento halin sa iya mga fans kag may ara pa sang naghambal nga sa pila ka kaadlaw sila naman ang makakadto sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang kalibutan kag makadiskubre sang nagkalain-lain nga kultura kaangay sang gintuman ni Jodi.
17-anyos nga tiglawas sang Quezon City, ginkoronahan nga Miss World Philippines 2026
Nagpangibabaw ang tiglawas sang Quezon City nga si Asia Rose Simpson sa Miss World Philippines 2026.
Ginkoronahan siya nanday Miss World Philippines 2024 Krishnah Gravidez kag Miss World 2025 Opal Suchata Chuangsri sa Mall of Asia Arena.
Pasado na alas dos kaina sang kaagahon sang natapos ang pageant.
Nalapawan ni Simpson ang performance sang 23 ka iban pa nga aspirants halin sa Pilipinas kag sa overseas Filipino communities.
Isa man siya sa pinakabata nga contestants sa edad nga 17-anyos.
Nadag-an sini ang search sa Miss World Philippines-Quezon City sang nagligad nga tuig.
Sang 2023, nag-compete siya bilang tiglawas sang New Mexico sa Miss Teen USA pageant kun sa diin ginkilala siya bilang Miss Congeniality.
Magluwas sa Miss World Philippines title, nakuha man ni Asia Rose ang pila ka special awards lakip na ang Talent Challenge winner kag Beauty with a Purpose.
Sa iya kag kay Valerie Pawid West sang Ifugao nagkadto ang Best in Swimsuit award.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginhingadlan naman si Anne De Mesa sang Manila bilang First Princess kag si Gabriel Fuentes Galapia sang Pampanga bilang Second Princess.
Nahibaluan nga si Megan Young pa lamang ang isahanon nga beauty queen sang Pilipinas nga nakadaog sang titulo sa Miss World.
Sashing ceremony sang Miss Iloilo 2026, subong na nga adlaw
Natalana subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 2, ang sashing ceremony sang Miss Iloilo 2026.
Maga-umpisa ini alas-kuatro sa hapon sa SM City Iloilo Northpoint.
Sa sini nga seremonya mahibaluan kun sa diin nga national pageant ipadala si Miss Iloilo 2026 Zestah Shalom Espinosa kag ang Heartfelt Queens.
Matandaan nga sa ginhiwat nga koronasyon sang Miss Iloilo sa West Visayas State University (WVSU) Cultural Center sang Enero 17, nangibabaw si Espinosa nga nagtiglawas sang Anilao.
Naga-edad ini sang 21-anyos kag isa ka architecture student sa University of San Agustin.
Nagkadto man sa iya ang awards nga Best in Gown, Best in Swimsuit, kag Best in Introduction Video.
Ginkilala naman nga Heartfelt Queens ang nabilin sa Top 5 finalists nga amo sanday Patricia Lynn Beerda sang La Paz, Lorraine Manguiat sang Tubungan, Angel Ann Teruel sang Pototan, kag Jessica Mae Gatungay sang Guimbal.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Espinosa nga himuon nila ang tanan nga masarangan agud nga itib-ong ang Iloilo pananglitan nga mag-compete na sila sa national stage.
Pahayag sini, madamo pa sila sang mga pasabog agud nga ma-represent sang maayo ang syudad.
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 89-anyos ang Barretto matriarch nga si Estrella “Inday” Barretto.
Siya ang iloy sang popular nga mga aktres nga sanday Claudine, Marjorie, kag Gretchen, kag lola naman ni Julia Barretto.
Sa showbiz circles, kilala siya bilang si Mommy Inday.
Una nga ginkumpirma sang iya anak nga si Joaquin ang iya kamatayon, kag ginsundan sang tribute video nga gin-post naman ni Claudine.
Ulihi nga nakit-an si Mommy Inday sa YouTube channel ni Ogie Diaz sang Oktubre 2025 sang ila gin-istoryahan ang relasyon ni Claudine sa iya ex-husband nga si Raymart Santiago.
Ila man na-istoryahan ang away nanday Claudine, Marjorie, kag Gretchen nga ginasundan man sang publiko.
Matandaan nga Oktubre 2019 sang napatay man ang bana ni Mommy Inday nga si Miguel.
Magluwas sa tatlo ka aktres, may apat pa sila ka mga anak nga amo sanday Mito, Michelle, Joaquin, kag Gia.
Lea Salonga kag Rachelle Ann Go, magabalik updanay sa Les Misérables
Madali na nga makit-an liwat nga magkaupod sa entablado sanday Lea Salonga kag Rachelle Ann Go para sa ila pagbalik sa isa ka concert sa Les Misérables.
Nahibaluan nga gintagaan sang karakter ni Lea si Madame Thénardier sa Manila run kag gin-portray man sini si Fantine sa 25th anniversary concert sang 2010 kag Éponine sa 10th anniversary concert sang 1995.
Samtang, masobra isa ka dekada naman nga gintagaan papel ni Rachelle An Go ang karakter ni Fantine nga subong isa na ka iloy.
Naghatag naman sang pahayag ang mga miyembro sang cast kaangay nanday Red Concepción kag Earl Carpenter nga ang kadalumon sang istorya nagahatag sang padayon nga rason kag kahulugan sa ila mga bataon kag mga may edad na nga mga audience.
Dugang pa nila, ang musika sang Les Misérables may yara sang kaugalingon nga “heartbeat” nga nagapahanugot nga magpangibabaw ang istorya bisan sin-o pa ang naga-uyat sang papel sini.
Mag-asawa nga si Robi Domingo kag Maiqui Pineda, nagbakasyon sa Boracay agud iselebrar ang ila ”babymoon”
Ginpakigbahin sang mag-asawa nga si Robi Domingo kag Maiqui Pineda ang ila pagbakasyon sa Boracay agud iselebrar ang ginatawag nila nga ”babymoon” bag-o sila opisyal nga mangin tatlo na.
Madamo naman ang nagdayaw sang ila mga laragway nga suno sa kaangay man nila nga artista nga si Janine Gutierrez at Melai Cantiveros nga nag-glow si Maiqui bangud sa iya pregnancy,
Nahibaluan nga gin-anunsyo ni Robi kag Mauiqui sini lamamng nga Enero nga nagaekspektar na sila sang baby matapos ang duwa ka tuig nila nga pag-asawahay.
Na-diagnose man sang una si Maiqui sang dermatomyositis isa ka autoimmune disease nga nagadala sang paghina sang tul-an, inflammationkag skin rash nga ila man ginakonsiderar nga mag-asawa nga dako nga pagpanghangkat sa ila kabuhi.
Acting debut ni Catriona Gray, balantayan sa reunion film nanday Anne Curtis kag Jericho Rosales
Indi lang sa pageant stage sarang mabantayan sang fans si Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray, kundi mangin sa silver screen!
Ini ang acting debut sang beauty queen, apang antes sini, wala-tuo man ang iya nga television appearances bangud sa modelling, pageantry journey, kag hosting experiences.
Ang “The Loved One” nga malantaw sa Philippine cinemas sa Pebrero 11 ang sa idalom sang direksyon ni Irene Villamor.
Ini ang una nga pelikula nanday Anne kag Jericho halin sang nag-updanay sila sa 2008 Metro Manila Film Festival entry nga “Baler” kag sa 2011 series nga si “Green Rose.”
Ilongga beauty queen Rabiya Mateo, Sunod-sunod ang posts nga nagapautwas sang iya kalain sang buot kag pagpanawagan nga untatan ang pagpang-bully
Sunod-sunod ang posts sang Ilongga beauty queen nga si Rabiya Mateo kagab-i nga nagapautwas sang iya kalain sang buot kag pagpanawagan nga untatan ang pagpang-bully.
Sang separado sini nga post, nagpahayag si Rabiya nga wala siya sang plano nga isapubliko ang iya depression bangud tinuig niya ini nga ginhuptan sa iya lamang kaugalingon.
Na-mensyonar pa sini ang Kindness Campaign nga mas nagtunog sadtong 2025 kasunod sang kamatayon ni Emman Atienza: “Remember when we lost Emman Atienza?
Ini nga posts ni Rabiya ang kasunod sang mga komento sa iya nauna nga pamangkot sa Facebook nga: “Iloilo na!
Bangud sang mga komento sang iban nga netizens, ginpasundan niya ini sang post nga, “I am always proud to be an Ilongga.
Si Rabiya nga tumandok sang Balasan, Iloilo ang isa sa magapungko nga judge sa Miss Iloilo 2026 grand coronation night buwas, Enero 17.
Miss Universe Philippines 2020 Rabiya Mateo, sunod-sunod ang posts nga nagpautwas sang kalain sang buot; Ilongga beauty queen, ginsapubliko nga na-diagnose ini nga may Major Depressive Disorder
* Ka-Bombo, ini nga balita ang may yara sang kaundan kaangot sa mental health, kag nagamensyonar man sang depression kag bullying.
Ginsapubliko ni Miss Universe Philippines 2020 Rabiya Mateo nga na-diagnose ini nga may Major Depressive Disorder with Anxious Distress sadtong 2025.
Nagpaidalom ini sa medication kag nagkadto sa luwas sang pungsod agud nga indi siya ma-trigger sang mga tawo nga wala nakahibalo kun ano ang iya gina-agyan.
Suno kay Rabiya, tinuig man niya ini ginbatuan, kag wala siya sang plano nga isugid sa publiko ang iya kondisyon.
Apang gin-post sang Ilongga beauty queen ang diagnosis sa iya bilang panawagan nga untaton ang pagpang-bully.
Kagab-i, sunod-sunod nga posts ang ginhimo ni Rabiya nga nagapautwas sang iya kalain sang buot.
Nag-ugat ini matapos nag-abot siya sa Iloilo kahapon, kag nagpamangkot kun sa diin siya pwede makakaon.
Apisar nga may mga sweet kag matarong nga komento, may ara man sang mga netizens nga nag-bash kag naghikay kay Rabiya.
Bangud sang mga komento sang iban nga netizens, nagpahayag si Rabiya nga ginhimo man niya ang iya “best” nga i-represent ang Iloilo City, apang sobra-sobra na gid ang ginapanghambal sang iban nga mga tawo.
Nagpahanumdom ini nga maghinay-hinay lang kag magpakita sang kaayo ilabi na sa mga depressed nga mga tawo.
Nahibaluan nga tumandok sang Balasan, Iloilo si Rabiya.
Isa siya sa magapungko nga judge sa Miss Iloilo 2026 karon sa gab-i sa West Visayas State University Cultural Center.
Alexie Brooks, Nicole Cordoves, mangin host sa Miss Iloilo 2026; Rabiya Mateo, magapungko bilang judge
Maga-updanay bilang hosts sa Miss Iloilo 2026 sanday Bb.
Ini na ang ikaapat nga tuig nga mangin host sa sini nga event si Cordoves, samtang balik-entablado naman si Brooks matapos ginkoronahan nga Miss Iloilo sadtong 2024.
Suno pa sa Miss Iloilo Organization, maka-upod man sang duha ka beauty queens ang Ilonggo host nga si Ryl Nuñez.
Isa ang Miss Iloilo sa highlights sang iconic nga Dinagyang Festival 2026.
12 ka mga kandidata ang maga-compete para sa titulo subong nga tuig nga amo sanday Yamika P.
Nagae sang Estancia, Wyncy Fatalino kag Mitch Samson sang Miagao, Lorraine Tajonera Mangubat sang Tubungan, Krshia Danica Ferguson sang Badiangan, Zestah Shalom Espinosa sang Anilao, Angel Ann Polines Teruel sang Tigbauan, Hana Tiffany Christen sang Janiuay, Mae Gatungay sang Guimbal, Gel Khyyzzll Zamora Gevero sang Iloilo City Proper, Jessica Patricia Lynn Beerda sang La Paz, Iloilo City, kag Mauluxielle Stacey De Ramos sang Batad.#
BTS, magabalik sa Pilipinas para sa ila World Tour sa 2027
Magabalik ang BTS sa Pilipinas para sa ila world tour sa 2027!
Sa announcement sang Big Hit Music subong nga gab-i, nakalista ang Manila para sa duha ka adlaw nga show sa Marso 13-14.
Ang BTS World Tour 2026-2027 amo ang ila nga una nga global performance matapos nakumpleto nila ang ila nga mandatory military service sa South Korea.
Katapusan nga naka-perform ang BTS sa Manila sa Mall of Asia Arena sadtong 2017 para sa “BTS Live Trilogy Episode III: The Wings Tour.”
Ini nga K-Pop supergroup ang ginabug-usan nanday RM, Jin, j-hope, Jimin, Suga, V, kag Jungkook.
Balantayan man ang ila ipaguwa nga ika-lima nga album sa Marso matapos ang hiatus sang grupo halin sang 2022.
Sa recent announcement sang BigHit Music, ini nga bag-o nga record ang naga-unod sang 14 tracks.
Available na para sa pre-order ang album umpisa sa Enero 16 sa South Korea (11:00 a.m.), ukon 10:00 a.m.
Lisa sang Blackpink, isa sa presenters sa Golden Globes
Magatapak sa isa ka iconic stage sa Hollywood ang global icon nga si Lalisa Manobal ukon mas kilala bilang si Lisa sang BLACKPINK.
Isa si Lisa sa ginpili nga mag-present sang mga magadaog sa 83rd Annual Golden Globe Award.
Siya ang una nga K-pop member nga mangin presenter sang amo nga prestihiyoso nga award-giving body.
Sa ginpagwa nga listahan sang organizer, kaupod niya bilang presenters sanday Snoop Dogg, Miley Cyrus, kag Orlando Bloom.
Magabalik naman bilang host ang komedyante nga si Nikki Glaser.
Patigayunon ang awarding ceremony sa Enero 12 sa Los Angeles, California, USA.
Ang Golden Globe Awards amo ang prestihiyoso nga American accolades nga nagakilala sang excellence sa film and television — domestic kag foreign.
‘Greatest blessing’: Maiqui Pineda, nagabusong sang ila first baby ni Robi Domingo
Malipayon nga ginpahibalo sang celebrity host nga si Robi Domingo nga nagabusong na ang iya asawa nga si Maiqui Pineda.
Ginhimo sang mag-asawa ang announcement kadungan sang ila ikaduha nga wedding anniversary.
Gintawag nila ang ila baby nga “greatest blessing” nga magaabot sa ila.
Nalakip sa video ang footage sang Septyembre sa pregnancy test ni Maiqui, ang ila reaksyon sang nakumpirma nga nagabusong ini, tubtub nga ginpahibalo na nila ang maayong balita sa ila suod nga mga abyan sa showbiz lakip kanday Darren Espanto, Donny Pangilinan, Vice Ganda, Anne Curtis, Coco Martin, Kathryn Bernardo, kag iban pa.
Nag-umpisa sa pag-date sanday Robi kag Maiqui sang 2018 kag na-engage sang Nobyembre 2022.
Sang 2023, na-diagnose si Maiqui nga may dermatomyositis nga isa ka rare autoimmune disease nga rason sang muscle weakness, inflammation, kag skin rashes.
Apisar sang diagnosis, ginpadayon ang ila kasal sang January 6, 2024 sa isa ka matahum nga seremonya sa Bulacan.
Sang amo man nga tuig, nag-improve ang kondisyon ni Maiqui kasunod sang pagpaidalom sini sa intensive treatment.
BINI Jhoanna kag rapper nga si Skusta Clee, gina-link sang netizens
Ginapyestahan sang netizens ang mga litrato nga gin-post nanday BINI Jhoanna kag sang rapper-songwriter nga si Skusta Clee matapos nanostisyaran nga pareho ang mga lugar sa Vietnam nga ila nga gin-flex.
Na-intriga ang fans kun magkaupod sila sa amo nga pungsod.
Nagdugang man sa espekulasyon sang netizens ang cryptic post ni Jho sa X nga nagasiling: “2026 — I choose my own happiness – without guilt, without explanation.”
Gin-repost man ni BINI Jhoanna ang reply niya sa isa ka Bloom sang October 2025 sang ginpamangkot siya nga, “Hi Jho!
Bisan nga madamo na nga netizens ang naglukso sa konklusyon nga naga-date ang 21-anyos nga P-Pop star kag ang 29-anyos nga rapper, madamo naman ang nagdepensa kay Jhoanna.
May yara naman sang nagapanawagan sa BINI leader nga i-debunk ang isyu.
Si Skusta amo ang anay karelasyon sang vlogger nga si Zeinab Harake nga subong misis na sang Filipino American basketball player nga si Bobby Ray Parks, Jr.
Una na nga ginbulgar ni Zeinab ang mga pagpangbabaye ni Skusta nga amo ang nagguba sang ila nga relasyon.
Kabahin man sa imbestigasyon ang 22 ka insurance policy kag iban pa nga nagkalai-lain nga ginpanag-iyahan ni Eric kag Edvic Yap
Bantog nga sitcom movie sang dekada 90 nga “Home Along Da Riles” ginalauman nga magabalik sini nga tuig 2026
Ginahuring-huring subong nga magabalik subong nga tuig 2026 ang bantog nga sitcom movie sang dekada 90 nga “Home Along Da Riles”
Sang Disyembre 28, nag-upload sa social media ang aktor kag direktor nga si Boy 2 Quizon sang isa ka teaser nga kaangay nga may nagapa-abot nga pelikula nga “Home Along Da Riles Da Reunion.”
Ginpakita man ang title sang proyekto kag ang pangalan ni Quizon bilang direktor sang pelikula kag ginsundan sang mensahe nga “The legacy continues in 2026.”
Nahibaluan nga una nga ginpaguwa sang tuig 1992 ang pelikula kag nangin isa sa pinakapopular nga programa sa telebisyon sa sulod sang 17 ka tuig.
Ginapangunahan man ini sang Comedy King nga si Dolphy Quizon.
nga mag-perform sa ASEAN Leaders’ Summit nga pagahiwaton sa Pilipinas sa 2026
ang grand winner sang “America’s Got Talent” Season 20 nga si Jessica Sanchez nga mag-perform sa Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Leaders’ Summit nga pagahiwaton sa Pilipinas sa masunod nga tuig.
Suno kay President Marcos kag First Lady Liza Marcos nga ang Prime minister sang Singapore ang isa ka fan ni Jessica kag gina-abangan gid sini ang Filipino-American singer.
Nagpasalamat naman si Jessica kag suno sa iya nga excited na ini nga magkanta para sa mga lider sang nagkalain-lain nga mga pungsod ilabi na nga igarepresenta sini ang Pilipnas.
Ginpahayag man sini nga magapaguwa ini sang album sa una nga quarter sa masunod nga tuig kag kabahin sa iya mga kanta amo ang tagalog kag collaborations sang mga Pilipino nga artista.
Yari subong sa Pilipinas si Jessica para sa New Year’s Countdown Celebration sa Pasay City antes ini magabalik sa US.
Andrea Brillantes, ginpangunahan ang pulo ka iban pa nga mga Filipina sa listahan sang TC Candler and The Independent Critics’ “100 Most Beautiful Faces of 2025
Ginpangunahan ni Andrea Brillantes ang pulo ka iban pa nga mga Filipina sa listahan sang TC Candler and The Independent Critics’ “100 Most Beautiful Faces of 2025.”
Ikaapat nga pwesto si Andrea, nga sang nagligad nga tuig nanguna man ini sa listahan.
Ang mga Filipina nga nadala subong nga tuig amo ang mga aktres kag singers, upod ang isa ka miyembro sang BINI kag isa ka Filipina nga miyembro sang K-pop group nga UNIS.
Aktor nga si Tom Rodriguez, ginhalad sa iya asawa kag anak ang nadag-an nga Best Supporting Actor award sa MMFF 2025
Dako ang pagpasalamat nga nabatyagan sang aktor nga si Tom Rodriguez matapos ini magdaog bilang Best Supporting Actor sa 2025 Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF).
Sa iya Instagram, gin-share sini ang pila ka mga litrato niya halin sa awarding ceremony nga ginhiwat sang Sabado.
Ginpahayag man ni Tom ang iya pagpasalamat sa iya team nga nangin iya ‘safety net’ sa sulod sang madugay nga panahon.
Nadag-an ni Tom ang Best Supporting Actor tungod sa iya papel sa pelikula nga Unmarry, nga ginbidahan nanday Angelica Panganiban kag Zanjoe Marudo.
Ginhalad ni Tom ang iya award sa iya asawa nga si Cecilia kag anak nga si Korben.
51st MMFF, nangin maragtason ang ginhiwat nga ‘Gabi ng Parangal’
Nangin maragtason ang ginhiwat nga 51st Metro Manila Film Festival kahapon sang gab-i, sa ginpatigayon nga Gabi ng Parangal sa Makati.
Ini matapos nga nakuha sang pelikula nga “I’mPerfect” ang Best Picture award, samtang ginpasidunggan si Krystel Go bilang “Best Actress” sa iya papel sa pelikula nga nagasentro sa istorya sang mga young adults nga may Down syndrome.
Nakuha naman sang comedian nga si Vice Ganda ang iya labing-una nga pasidungog sa MMFF sang iya nakuha ang “Best Actor award” para sa “Call Me Mother” sini nga pelikula.
Nangin madinalag-un naman nga ginpasidunggan si Tom Rodriguez bilang Best Supporting Actor para sa pelikula nga “Unmarry”, si Odette Khan bilang Best Supporting Actress para sa “Bar Boys: After School” nga pelikula, kag si Lucas Andalio bilang Best Child Performer para sa “Call Me Mother”.
Gindala naman pauli nanday Jeffrey Jeturian ang Best Director para sa pelikula nga “Unmarry”, nga ginhingadlan man nga 2nd Best Picture, samtang ang Manila’s Finest kag Call Me Mother ang ginpasidunggan bilang 3rd Best Picture.
Zsa Zsa Padilla, ginbalik ang iya Lifetime Achievement Award nga ginpasidungog sa iya sang Aliw Awards Foundation
Ginbalik sang beterana nga singer kag actress nga si Zsa Zsa Padilla ang iya Lifetime Achievement Award nga ginpasidungog sa iya sang Aliw Awards Foundation.
Suno kay Zsa-Zsa wala sini manamian ang ginpakita nga pag-amuma sa ila kag kaangay nga wala sang respeto ang nagdumala sang awarding ceremony.
Ginpahayag sini nga nadula ang kahulugan sang pagpasidungog matapos wala sila natagaan sang opportunidad nga makahatag sang ila speech bilang pagpasalamat man sa mga tawo nga nangin parte sang ila kadalga-an.
Upod ni Padilla sa mga ginpasidunggan sanday Lani Misalucha, Jed Madela, Gary Valenciano, kag Franki Asinero nga amo man ang pagtratar sa mga ini.
Gilayon naman nga naghatag sang ila sabat ang Aliw Awards Foundation, nga suno sa tagdumalahan nga gintinguhaan gid nila nga mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga tion ang tagsa-tagsa apang ginkulang gid sa oras.
Rason nga wala na makahatag sang ila speech ang iban nga napasidunggan kaangay na lang ni Zsa-zsa Padilla nga nakabaton sang Lifetime Achievement Award.
Huring-huring sa karun ang istorya nga posible nga pagabaklon sang former Governor kag prominente nga businessman nga si Chavit Singson ang Miss Universe Organization.
Ginpahayag man nga makigkita si Singson sa nasambit nga organization sa masunod nga bulan sa posibilidad nga pagbakal sini.
Nag-ugat ang iya nga plano matapos ang isyu sang Thailand kag Mexico sa gintalikdan nga Miss Universe 2025 pageant.
Viral pick-up truck driver, utod ni Pokwang; Komedyante, nag-sorry
Nagpangayo sang pasensya ang komedyante nga si Pokwang matapos nag-viral ang video kun sa diin makit-an ang iya utod nga nagkadol sa isa ka lalaki nga nagatulod sang kariton.
“”Opo kapatid ko po ang lalaki sa video at hindi ko po kinatutuwa ang kanyang ginawa… Totoo po ‘yung nag-viral po na video na isang lalaki na naka Hilux na Toyotang puti.
Dugang sini: “Hindi po ako natutuwa at hindi ko po dapat kampihan ‘yung nangyari po dun sa kapatid ko.
Kumbaga, syempre nanay din naman po ako… Pero lagi po nating iisipin na laging may other side of story, pero sige po, sa amin na lang po iyon.
And humihingi po ulit ako ng kapatawaran doon po sa mag-ama.”
Apang kuntani suno sa iya, indi pagdalahigon ang iya pamilya.
“Ang kasalanan po ni Pedro ay hindi pwedeng maging kasalanan ni Juan.
Maaari isa pong isa kami ng apelyido pero hindi naman po kami pareho lagi ng pag-iisip… Ako po ay humihingi ng despensa doon po sa kaniyang nakaalitan,” kabahin sang video nga gin-post sang aktres.
Base sa video, ginkadol sang driver sang Toyota Hilux ang lalaki nga nagatulod sang kariton, samtang naghinibi naman ang bata nga kaupod sang lalaki.
Nakaabot na ini sa Land Transportation Office (LTO) rason nga gin-suspend sang 90 ka adlaw ang lisensiya sang driver
Sa post naman ni Pokwang, ginmuno sini ang mga nag-post sang pictures pati sang ila bilog nga pamilya apisar nga ang iya utod lang ang may sala.
“Pinost po ninyo ‘yung mukha ng buong pamilya ko, isa lang po ang may kasalanan… Asan po ‘yung privacy, ‘yung proteksyon ng pamilya ko?
Hindi po ako kumakampi sa kapatid ko pero sana nag-iingat po kayo sa mga post ninyo,” suno pa sa iya.
Sa amo nga video, nahibaluan nga ginbuyayaw pa sang utod ni Pokwang ang lalaki, kag gin-alegar nga nagpamahog pa nga tiruhon kag patyon ang amo nga tawo.
Gin-alegar nga natabo ang insidente sa Barangay San Roque sa Antipolo City.
Nagaguwa sa imbestigasyon nga madasig ang dalagan sang salakyan sang utod ni Pokwang kag diutayan lang nabungguan ang bata.
Nakakadto naman ang duha ka magtimbang nga bahin sa police station.#
Klea Pineda kag Janella Salvador, magkaupod nga nagbakasyon sa US
Ginpakigbahin sang mga aktres nga sanday Klea Pineda kag Janella Salvador sa ila Instagram ang ila pag-updanay nga duha sa ila pagbakasyon sa Estados Unidos.
Makita sa ilang posts nga nagalibot sila sa Los Angeles, California, kag nag-enjoy sa pagkaon sa isa ka cafe.
Ginlaragway ni Janella ang ila biyahe sa eroplano bilang isa ka “core memory.”
Nagtrabaho ang dalawa sa queer film nga “Open Endings”, nga nagdaog sang Best Ensemble Performance sa Cinemalaya 2025, kaupod sanday Jasmine Curtis-Smith kag Leanne Mamonong.
Sa pihak sang mga nagalapta nga chismis nga may relasyon ang duha, nagpahayag si Klea nga ang importante lang amo nga masadya sila nga magka-upod kag gin-athag man sini nga indi si Janella ang rason sang breakup niya sa iya anay girlfriend nga si Katrice Kierulf.
‘Ako yung saranggola’: Ben&Ben drummer Jam Villanueva, gin-anunsyo ang plano sa pagbiya sa banda
Gin-anunsyo sang Ben&Ben drummer nga si Jam Villanueva nga ang 2026 amo ang iya katapusan nga tuig kaupod sa banda.
Sa video nga gin-post sa Facebook page sang Filipino band, ginbalikan sini kun paano sini ka-palangga ang musika, ang iya handum nga natuman kaupod sa Ben&Ben, ang ila mga kadalag-an, kag ang mga natipon nga leksyon bilang grupo kag bilang mga indibidwal.
Ginkilala man sini ang nangin gahum sang komunidad paagi sa ila fans nga ginatawag “Liwanag.”
We literally wouldn’t have been able to do and keep doing any of this if it weren’t for you,” dugang niya kaangot sa kontribusyon sang ila mga taga-suporta.
Sa sulod sang walo ka tuig suno sa iya, may yara man sang growth sa kada band member paagi sa mga eksperyensya nga nagahulma kag nangin paagi kun paano nila na-“rediscover” ang ila kaugalingon.
Diri na kag ginbalikan sini ang duha ka importante nga hitabo sa iya kabuhi sang 2024 kag subong nga 2025.
There’s no easy way to say this, next year 2026 is my last year with the band,” pahayag niya sa paghingapos sang video.
Gin-imbitar sini ang fans nga mag-upod sa ila palaabuton pa nga mga show: “Let’s make next year a fun and memorable one.”
Sang Mayo, matandaan nga gin-anunsyo sang banda nga nagasuprer si Jam sang Quervain’s tendinosis kag “Drummer’s Wrist” nga nag-apekto sa iya abilidad sa drums.
Sang amo nga tion, ginsiling sang Ben&Ben nga temporaryo lang kag magaayo ang kondisyon ni Jam, apang gindugang nga gin-abisuhan anay ini sang doktor nga pahuwayan ang iya left wrist sa sulod sang isa ka bulan para nga mag-ayo.#
Nag-walk out si Miss Universe 2025 Fatima Bosch sa isa ka interview sa American Spanish-language TV network matapos siya ginpamangkot angot sa kontrobersiya nga nagapalibot sa pageant kag sa iya pagkadaog.
Ginkumpirmar sang network sa ila Facebook page nga naghalin ini sa tunga-tunga sang taping kag gin-cancel man ang tanan niya nga naka-schedule nga pagpakita sa telebisyon.
Lakip sa mga gin-istoryahan ang isyu angot sa pag-freeze sang account ni Miss Universe Organization (MUO) president Raul Rocha bangud sa ginaalegar nga kaangtanan sini sa iligal nga droga, kag ang kaso nga gin-file batok kay Fatima sang Miss Universe Thailand kag Miss Grand International (MGI) president Nawat Itsaragrisil.
Sa pagsugod sang interview, nagsabat pa ang beauty queen nga wala siya sang bisan ano nga kaso kag nagpahayag nga indi na niya luyag palawigon pa ang istorya.
Apang ginbuyagyag sang isa sa mga host nga antes pa magsugod ang airing, ginhambalan sila ni Fatima nga ang iya amay, si Bernardo Bosch Hernández, ang naga-handle sang “legal situation.”
Veteran singer Imelda Papin pormal na nga ginlunsyar ang “Pilipino Tayo,” isa ka bag-o nga Filipino song
Pormal na nga ginlunsar sang veteran singer nga si Imelda Papin ang “Pilipino Tayo,” isa ka bag-o nga Filipino song nga nagadala sang mensahe sang pag-isa kag kabakod sa tunga sang ginapangatubang nga pagpanghangkat sang Pilipinas.
Ang kanta nahimo kasunod sang nagapadayon nga mga isyu sa pungsod, lakip na ang mga ginapangatubang nga problema sa politika kag korapsyon.
Ginkumpirma man nga magapatigayon sang “Pilipino Tayo” caravan si Papin sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang Pilipinas agud mapalapnag ang mensahe sang kanta.
Target sini nga maghatag inspirasyon sa paghiliusa sa tunga sang nagkalain-lain nga panindugan sa politika sa pungsod.
Gin-anunsyo man nga magahiwat si Papin sang selebrasyon para sa iya ika-50 anibersaryo sa showbiz sa Mayo 2026.
Taylor Swift kag iya partner nga si Travis Kelce ginkumpirmar nga kaslon na ini sa Hunyo 13 sa masunod nga tuig
Ginkumpirmar sang American singer songwriter kag pop superstar nga si Taylor Swift kag sang iya partner nga si Travis Kelce nga kaslon na ini sa Hunyo 13, sa masunod nga tuig sa Ocean House sa Watch Hill, Rhode island.
Suno sa report nagadali na si Taylor nga magpakasal bangud gusto na sini nga makaangkon sang anak.
Ginpangabay man sini nga matuman ang adlaw sang iya kasal sa numero nga 13 bangud lucky number ini sang singer songwriter.
Nahibaluan nga nagsugod ang relasyon sang Hollywood’s most talked-couples sang tuig 2023 sang nakit-an nga nagtambong si Taylor sa isa ka game sang Kansas City Chiefs nga amo man ang team ni Travis.
Ginpasapubliko man ang ila engagement sang Agosto subong nga tuig kag gin-anunsyo ini paagi sa isa ka joint Instagram post.
Sa karon, padayon ang kasikatan nga nagakatabo sa career ni Taylor matapos ang success sang iya newest album nga ”The Life of a Showgirl” kun sa diin sa una pa lang nga adlaw sang pag-release sini nakabaligya na sang masobra 2.7 million ka mga kopya.
Zanjoe Marudo, ginpanginwala ang huring-huring nga bulagay na sila ni Ria Atayde
Ginsabat sang actor nga si Zanjoe Marudo ang nagalapta nga tsismis nga bulagay na sila sang iya asawa nga si Ria Atayde.
Nagpabutyag ini sang iya pagkadismaya sa pagpalapta sang “fake news” sa social media, kag ginkumpirmar sini nga wala sang kamatuoran ang amo nga huring-huring.
Nag-atubang ang actor sa isyu nga bulaganay sa media conference sang 2025 Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF) entry nga “UnMarry,” kun sa diin isa siya sa mga cast.
Suno kay Zanjoe, apisar ang mga yara sa iban nga pungsod naga-messge sa iya agud hibaluon kun matuod ang balita sang bulaganay na sila sang iya asawa.
Ginkasal sanday Zanjoe Marudo kag Ria Atayde sa isa ka civil wedding sang Marso 2024, kag sang Setyembre ginbun-ag ang ila subang nga bata nga si Sabino.
Ginpasidunggan ang aktor nga si Dennis Trillo bilang Asia’s Best Actor in a Leading Role sa Asian Academy Creative Awards bangud sa tumalagsahon sini nga ginpakita sa pag-arte sa papel nga Domingo Zamora sa pelikula nga “Green Bones.”
Nalapawan sini ang pila ka bantug nga aktor sa Asia nga sanday Jacob Elordi para sa “The Narrow Road to the Deep Road” kag Park Bo Gum sang Soth Korea.
Ang “Green Bones” amo ang opisyal nga entry sa Metro Manila Film Festival 2024, kun sa diin nagdaug man ini sang madamo nga awards, upod ang Best Actor para kay Trillo, Best Supporting Actor para kay Ruru Madrid, kag Best Picture.
Nagdaug man si Trillo sang Gawad Urian sang Oktubre subong nga tuig para sa amo man nga papel sa nasambit nga pelikula.
MGI, magapatigayon sang bag-o nga “All Star” edition
Magapatigayon ang Miss Grand International (MGI) sang bag-o nga “All Star” edition nga maga-welcome sang mga beauty queens halin sa nagakalain-lain nga international pageants.
Ginpaguwa sang MGI ang teaser para sa pinakauna nga “MGI All Stars,” nga naga-invite sa mga anay kandidata ukon former queens nga luyag liwat magbalik sa spotlight.
Wala pa sang gindetalye sang pageant organizers ang eksakto nga mechanics, criteria, ukon schedule sang kompetisyon.
Apang sa social media, nagasugod na pagpang-mention ang madamo nga Filipino beauty pageant fans sang mga ngalan nga luyag nila nga mangin kabahin sang espesyal nga edition.
Lakip sa mga ginaennganyo sang Pinoy fans amo ang anay MGI representatives nga sanday Samantha Bernardo, Roberta Tamondong, kag Nikki de Moura, kag Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray.
Sa subong, indi pa maathag kun buslan sang magadaog sa “MGI All Stars” ang reigning queen nga si Emma Tiglao sang Pilipinas ukon mangin separado ini sa orihinal nga pageant.
Nagahulat subong ang fans sa dugang nga anunsyo gikan sa Miss Grand International.
Nawat, ginpasakaan sang kaso criminal si newly crowned Miss Universe 2025 Fatima Bosch sang Mexico
Nagpasaka sang kaso kriminal si Miss Grand International (MGI) President Nawat Itsaragrisil batok kay Miss Universe 2025 Fatima Bosch sang Mexico matapos gin-akusar ang kandidata sang “repeated defamatory statements” nga nakaguba sa iya reputasyon.
Suno sa apat ka panid nga police incident report nga ginpabutyag sang MGI sa social media, personal nga nagpadulong si Nawat sa Wat Phraya Krai Police Station sa Bangkok sang Nobyembre 12 agud ireklamo si Bosch.
Ginpahayag sini nga ang mga ginhambal sang Miss Universe winner wala sang kamatuoran kag nakatuga sang halit sa iya pangalan sa Thailand kag apisar pa sa iban nga pungsod.
Nadiskubrehan nga ang reklamo nag-ugat sa insidente nga natabo sa ikaduha nga adlaw sang Miss Universe 2025 pageant.
Matandaan nga nagsabtanay sanday Nawat kag Bosch matapos ginpahayag ni Miss Mexico nga indi siya luyag magpasakop sa isa ka sponsored shoot.
Suno sa report, natabo ang inaway sa atubang sang iban pa nga mga kandidata.
Ginkumpirmar man sang MGI nga indi matuod ang akusasyon ni Fatima Bosch nga gintawag siya ni Nawat nga “dumbhead.”
Suno sa organisasyon, wala ini nahambal sang MGI President kag indi husto ang ginalantaw nga rason sang pag-walk out sang kandidata pagkatapos sang insidente.
Si Nawat Itsaragrisil ang nagauyat sang local Miss Universe franchise sa sulod sang lima ka tuig kag sa subong nagaserbe siya bilang Vice President for Asiana sa Miss Universe Organization.
Kim Chiu ginpakigbahin nga mabug-at nga desisyon ang pag-file sang criminal case batok sa iya magulang
Ginpakigbahin sang TV host-actress nga si Kim Chiu nga mabug-at nga desisyon ang pagpasaka sini sang criminal case batok sa iya magulang nga si Lakambini Chiu matapos matukiban ang financial discrepancies sa ila negosyo.
Nagsubmit sang reklamo nga sword statement sa Office of the Assisstant City Prosecutor sa Quezon City si Kim kaupod ang iya mga abogado dala ang tanan nga dokumento kag ebidensya.
Suno sa iya legal counsel, ini nga kaso para sa qualified theft batok sa iya magulang.
Ginpahayag ni Kim nga mabudlay ang amo desisyon, apang matapos ang internal review nagdesisyon ini nga magfile bangud seryoso ini problema kag kinahanglan niya ini para sa transparency kag proteksyon sang iya negosyo, lakip na ang pangabuhian sang iya mga empleyado.
Gindugang pa sini nga pribado ini nga problema sang iya pamilya kag ginahimo niya ang legal nga proseso agud may mag-ako sang sala kag responsibilidad nga nabuhat sini.
Nagapangayo man ini sang respeto kag pag intindi sa ginapangatubang sini nga pagpanghangkat.
Nagalaom man ini nga paagi sa legal nga proseso matagaan sang kasanagan kag hustisya ang nasambit nga problema.
Kim Chiu, nagpasaka sang reklamo nga Qualified Theft batok sa iya utod nga si Lakambini Chiu
Pormal na nga ginpasaka ni Kim Chiu ang qualified theft complaint batok sa iya utod nga si Lakambini Chiu matapos nadiskubrehan ang ‘serious financial discrepancies’ sa ila nga negosyo.
Sa statement sang host-actress, ginsiling sini nga kinahanglan sini ang pag-file sang complaint bangud sang daku nga kantidad sa ila nga business assets nga nadula.
Ginpahayag man sang iya abogado nga pila ka beses nga gintinguhaan nga solbaron ang kaso “internally” apang wala nagmadinalag-on.
Vilma Santos-Recto, na-angkon ang iya ika-10 nga Best Actress award sa 41st (PMPC) Star Awards for Movies
Tuman ang kalipay ni “Star for All Seasons” Vilma Santos-Recto matapos nga naangkon sini liwat ang ika- 10 sini nga Best Actress award sa ginpatigayon nga 41st Philippine Movie Press Club Star Awards for Movie.
Ang ini nga award nabaton niya bangud sa performance sini bilang aktres sa iya pelikula nga “Uninvited.”
Suno pa sa beterana nga aktres nga mabug-at sa gihapon ang iya nga katungdanan bisan pila na ka dekada ini sa industriya nga nagatrabaho.
Madamo naman sa iya mga fans ang nagrekomendar nga himuon siya nga National Artist apang wala na naghatag sang komento ang beterana nga aktres natuhoy sa nasambit nga pasidungog.
Suno pa sa iya nga tuman na kadamo ang blessings nga iya nabaton nga tuman gid ang iya nga pagpasalamat sa Ginuo.
Ginkumpirmar man sini nga may ginapreparahan siya nga bag- o nga pelikula.
Lin-ay sang Balasan, ginkoronahan nga Lin-ay sang Iloilo 2025
Ginkoronahan bilang Lin-ay sang Iloilo 2025 ang Lin-ay sang Balasan nga si Elissa Jayne F.
Dely sa matahom kag madinalag-on nga coronation night nga ginhiwat kagab-i sa Passi City Arena, kun sa diin ginpatigayon ang pagpaaindis-indis sang mga lin-ay halin sa nanuhay-tuhay nga mga banwa.
Nakuha naman sang Lin-ay sang Sara nga si Shiela Muya ang titulo nga Lin-ay sang Turismo kag magaserbe nga ambassador sang turismo kag katahum sang Sara.
Ang Lin-ay sang Oton nga si Crystil Joy L.
Sepaya ang ginkoronahan bilang Lin-ay sang Maragtas nga mangin simbolo sang kultura kag panubli-on, kag magapadayaw sang katahum sang Oton.
Ang Lin-ay sang Banate amo nga si Dyjie Laurice B.
Yucor ang ginkilala nga Lin-ay sang Taliambong nga amo naman ang simbolo sang arte kag kalalang sang Banate.
Ang Lin-ay sang Tigbauan nga si Lyra Angela T.
Temperatura ang nakakuha sang titulo nga Lin-ay sang Panublion kag siya ang magapakita sang kultura kag pamana sang Tigbauan.
Nanawagan si Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray sa Miss Universe Organization (MUO) na magpatupad ng mas malinaw at transparent na judging process sa mga susunod na pageant, kasunod ng kontrobersiya at alegasyon ng dayaan sa pagkapanalo ni Fatima Bosch ng Mexico ngayong 2025.
Sa kanyang Instagram Broadcast Channel, sinabi ni Catriona na mahalagang maibalik ng MUO ang tiwala ng mga pageant fans sa pamamagitan ng malinaw na criteria, scoring system, at paggamit ng independent third-party tabulator.
Ani Catriona, nakakadismaya ang mga ulat tungkol sa mga nag-resign na judges at umano’y kalituhan sa proseso ng judging system.
Gayunpaman, nalulungkot siya sa online hate na natatanggap ni Bosch at umaasang gagamitin ng bagong Miss Universe ang kanyang titulo para sa positibong adbokasiya.
Pinuri rin niya ang performance nina Ahtisa Manalo ng Pilipinas at Olivia Yacé ng Côte d’Ivoire sa Q&A, na itinuturing niyang pinakamalakas.
Ayon kay Catriona, “basic” lamang ang final question at inaasahang handa ang mga kandidata rito.
Dagdag pa niya, batay sa kanyang karanasan bilang judge, nagkakaiba-iba ang panlasa ng mga hurado, ngunit nanindigan siya na transparency ang susi para maiwasan ang anumang duda sa resulta ng kompetisyon.
Miss Jamaica, yara sa gihapon sa ICU matapos mahulog sa stage sang Miss Universe prelims
Nagapabilin sa gihapon sa intensive care unit sa Thailand si Miss Jamaica Gabrielle Henry, matapos mahulog halin sa entablado sang Miss Universe 2025 preliminaries sang Nobyembre 19, 2025.
Nahulog ini samtang nagarampa sa runway suksok ang orange nga gown kag high heels sa evening gown competition.
Gilayon man ini nga gindala sa ospital, particular na sa ICU para sa nagakaigo nga pagbulong.
Phylicia Henry-Samuels, indi pa sa gihapon maayo ang iya kondisyon.
Ginmando man sang mga doctor nga magatenir siya sa ICU nga indi magnubo sa pito ka aldaw para sa padayon nga observation.
Kaupod niya sa Thailand ang iya utod kag iloy nga nagahatag sang suporta.
Nagapanawagan ang Miss Universe Jamaica Organization sang pangamuyo kag pag-intindi para kay Gabrielle.
Madamo sang pageant fans ang nagpabutyag sang suporta kag pagdumdom sa iya sitwasyon nga nagtuga sang tuman nga kakibot sa Miss Universe community.
Lebanese-French musician nga si Omar Harfouch, hurado sa Miss Universe 2025, gin-akusaran nga “luto” ang resulta sang amo nga pageant
Gin-akusaran sang isa ka nag-resign nga judge sang Miss Universe nga “luto” ang resulta sang amo nga pageant.
Sa social media sini, ginsiling ni Lebanese-French musician nga si Omar Harfouch, hurado sa Miss Universe 2025 nga nag-resign duha ka adlaw antes ang coronation event, nga “peke nga Miss Universe” ang nagda-og nga si Fatima Bosch sang Mexico.
Ginsaysay sini nga isa ka semana ang makaligad sa Dubai, gin-estorya nanday Rocha kag anak sini nga iboto si Bosch bangud makapamaayo ang kadalag-an sang kandidata sang Mexico sa ila negosyo.
Nagpromisa si Harfouch nga magpagguwa pa siya sang dugang nga detalye sa Mayo 2026.
Sa Instagram, gin-anunsyo niya ang pag-resign, kag ginsiling nga “isa ka secret vote” ang ginpatigayon para magpili sang 30 ka mga kandidata halin sa 136.
Pope Leo XIV, nakigkita sa mga Hollywood stars nga sanday Oscar-winners Cate Blanchett kag Spike Lee
Nakigkita ang mga Hollywood stars nga sanday Oscar-winners Cate Blanchett kag Spike Lee kay Pope Leo XIV sa Vatican City.
Ginpahaya sang Santo Papa nga ang sinehan isa ka “workshop of hope” samtang naga-kabalaka naman ini sa naganubo nga tumlan-aw sa sinehan.
Nakigkita man sa Santo Papa sanday Monica Bellucci sang Mary Magdalene sang “The Passion of the Christ kag si Adam Scott sang Parks and Recreation kag Severance amo man si Sergio Castellitto sang Conclave.
Suno kay Pope Leo, ang sinehan nagahatag sang paglaum kag lugar sa mga tawo agud ila pa gid makilala ang ila kaugalingon.
Ginpakigbahin man sang Santo Papa ang iya mga paborito nga pelikula kaangay sang It’s a Wonderful Life (1946), The Sound of Music (1965), Ordinary People (1980), kag Life is Beautiful (1997).
Ginahikayat man sini ang mga institusyon nga indi magsuko sa ila ginabuhat, kundi magbinuligay sa paghatag sang importansya sa sosyal kag kultural nga misyon sang kaangay nga buluhaton.
Iñigo Pascual, pagabidahan ang Philippine adaptation sang “The Good Doctor”
Kumpirmado nga pangunahan ni Iñigo Pascual ang cast sang Philippine adaptation sang kilala nga medical drama nga “The Good Doctor,” nga ginatalana mag-premiere sa masunod nga tuig.
Ang serye base sa 2013 nga South Korean K-drama nga may pareho man nga tig-ulo.
Pagabidahan ni Iñigo ang karakter ni Dong, ang ginatawag nga “The Good Doctor,” nga nagapakita sang pinasahi nga abilidad, instincts, kag matuod-tuod nga kaluoy sa iya mga pasyente.
Maupod sang actor ang aktres nga si Gabby Padilla, nga isa man sa mangin importante nga parte sang serye.
Sa subong, wala pa gibuyagyag ang dugang nga detalye angot sa kabug-usan nga storyline kag iban pa nga mga karakter nga mangin kabahin sang drama.
Nadiskubrehan man nga ang “The Good Doctor” gin-adopt na sang nagkalain-lain nga pungsod, lakip na ang Estados Unidos, Turkey, Japan, kag Hong Kong, antes ini masulod sa Philippine television.
AJ Raval, inamin na may limang anak; Tatlo sa mga ito, anak nila ni Aljur Abrenica
Ibinunyag ng aktres na si AJ Raval na mayroon na siyang limang anak, kung saan tatlo sa mga ito ay anak nila ng aktor na si Aljur Abrenica.
Kinumpirma ito ni AJ sa isang panayam kay Boy Abunda, kung saan sinabi niyang gusto na niyang sabihin ang totoo sa publiko upang tuluyan nang matapos ang mga haka-haka at upang magkaroon ng kalayaan ang kanyang mga anak.
Ibinahagi rin ni AJ ang mga pangalan ng kanyang mga anak na sina Ariana, Aaron, Aikina, Aljur Junior, at Abraham.
Matatandaan na noong Setyembre, ibinunyag ng ama ni AJ na si Jeric Raval na may anak ang kanyang anak na babae kay Aljur Abrenica, na lalong nagpasiklab ng mga usapin tungkol sa relasyon ng dalawa.
Anjo Yllana, sinabing kinamumuhian ang mga ‘Magnanakaw’ at nais sumabak sa Senado
Ipinahayag ng aktor na si Anjo Yllana ang kanyang pagkadismaya sa umano’y mga “magnanakaw” sa gobyerno, na isa sa mga dahilan kung bakit niya nais subukan ang kanyang kapalaran sa Senado.
Sa isang livestream sa TikTok noong Oktubre 27, sinabi ni Yllana na gusto nitong tanggapin ang challenge na tumakbo sa Senado dahil aniya naiinis na siya sa mga nakaupo sa Kongreso.
Hinimok niya rin ang publiko na huwag nang iboto ang mga magnanakaw na politiko.
Sa bago nitong post, idineklara ni Yllana ang kanyang suporta sa DDS (die-hard Duterte supporter) at ipinahayag ang suporta kay Vice President Sara Duterte, pati na rin sa panawagan na ilagay si dating Pangulong Rodrigo Duterte sa house arrest sa Davao.
Sinabi niya na sana umano ay tanggapin siya ng Duterte party.
Muli pang inihayag ng dating artista at politiko na tumakbo man siya o hindi ay kaniya paring susuportahan ang team Duterte sa 2028.
Magugunitang si Anjo ay may karanasan sa politika bilang dating konsehal at bise-alkalde ng Parañaque City.
Noong 2024, tumakbo rin siya bilang bise-alkalde sa Calamba City ngunit ito’y natalo.
Ahtisa Manalo, nagapanguna sa Miss Universe 2025 hot picks
Nagapanguna sa ranggo sang Miss Universe 2025 hot pics ang kilala nga beauty pageant observer nga Missosology ang Filipino beauty queen nga si Ma.
Athisa Manalo nga ginakabig “leading the pack” sa ila pinakabag-o nga listahan nga ginpagguwa kahapon nga adlaw, Nobyembre 7.
Suno sa Missosology, nagapanginbabaw si Manalo indi lamang sa iya poise kag kumpyansa, kundi pati man sa iya estorya.
Gitmitlang man sang pageant platform nga ang iya kadalag-an ang makaangkon sang “symbolic weight” sa kultura sang pageant sa Pilipinas.
Lakip pa sa mga listahan sang frontrunners ang Colombia, Croatia, Puerto Rico, Thailand nga isa man sa paborito bilang crown contender.
Sa kabug-usan, 122 ka mga kandidata ang magpaindis-indis sa titulo nga Miss Universe 2025 nga pagahiwaton sa Thailand sa Nobyembre 21.
Pambato sang pungsod sa Miss Earth 2025 nga si Joy Bacoma, napaslawan nga makasulod sa Top 4
Natapos ang kampanya sang pambato sang pungsod sa Miss Earth 2025 nga si Joy Barcoma.
Ini matapos nga wala nakasulod sa Top 4 Finalist sang pageant.
Una nga nakasulod sa Top 8 sang kompetisyon si Barcoma kun sa diin ang Too ang mga pambato sang Vietnam, Thailand, Czech Republic at Iceland.
Antes ang Question and Answer portion, nag-halad anay ini sang prayer sa mga naapektuhan sang bagyo Tino sa pageant nga ginhiwat sa Paranaque.
Ang Cavite native nga beauty queen nag nag-pauli sang medalya sa Best in Terno for Asia and Oceana sang Miss Earth 2025.
Matandaan nga sang Agusto, ginkoronahan bilang Miss Philippines Earth si Barcoma.
Sandig sa press release sang Senate of the Philippines nga nakabalhag sa official website sang upper chamber, tuyo sang hagna nga ma-address ang nagadamo nga kaso sang cyberbullying, fake news, kag online defamation diri sa Pilipinas.
Ginbasehan sang senador ang kaso ni Emman, anak sang TV presenter nga si Kuya Kim Atienza, nga nabiktima man sang online hate.
Tuyo sini nga maprotektahan ang mga indibidwal sa online harassment kag mapabaskog pa ang implementasyon sang mga layi agud nga malikawan ang cyberbullying and online hate.
Ang ginatumod sini nga mga layi amo ang Cybercrime Prevention Act kag ang Anti-Bullying Act.
“And as Emman used to always say, to promote ‘a little kindness,’” pahayag pa sang senador sa iya ginduso nga hagna.
Sa sini nga hagna, ginaduso ang silot para sa mga akto kaangay sang cyberlibel, online hate speech, kag harassment.
Magabaton naman ang mga biktima sang psychosocial support kag counselling paagi sa Victim Support and Protection Program.
Ang tanan nga gasto sa sini nga mga serbisyo ang pagasukton halin sa perpetrators.
Ini nga perpetrators ang mangatubang naman sang multa nga halin sa P50,000 tubtub sa P200,000 kag pagkapreso kun mapamatud-an nga guilty.
Kun mga menor de edad naman ang involved, may patigayunon nga counseling kag pagpasangkad sang edukasyon agud nga matapna ang negatibo nga pamatasan.
Sang nagligad nga Oktubre sang gin-anunsyo sang pamilya Atienza ang kamatayon sang 19-anyos nga si Emman nga isa man ka mental health advocate.
Ginpresentar naman sa mag-asawa nga Kim kag Felicia ang kopya sang bill kadungan sang haya ni Emman.
Nahibaluan nga sa Kamara, may yara man sang counterpart measure nga gin-file si Negros Occidental 3rd District Rep.
Umpisahan na ini sa Fort Dix ang iya sentensya sa kaso nga prostitution-related charges.
Una nga ginhingyo ni Combs nga na-convict sa two counts of transportation to engage in prostitution nga mangin 50-month ukon masobra apat ka tuig ini nga mapreso sa Fort Dix Facility.
Suno sa Bureau of Prisons nga nakatalana ini ma-release sa Mayo 8, 2028.
Sam Milby, na-diagnose nga may latent autoimmune diabetes
Ginsapubliko ni Sam Milby nga na-diagnose siya nga may latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) ukon Type 1.5 diabetes.
Suno kay Sam, nahibaluan niya ang iya kondisyon kasunod sang general check-up sa Singapore.
Base sa Mayo Clinic, ang LADA amo ang sahi sang diabetes nga naga-umpisa sa adulthood kag nagalala samtang nagadugay.
Kaangay sa type 1 diabetes, nagakatabo ang LADA kun mag-untat na ang pancreas sa paghimo sang insulin bangud sang autoimmune process nga naga-damage sang cells sa pancreas.
Apang indi kaangay sa type 1 diabetes, sa LADA, mahinay lamang ini rason nga indi kinahanglan nga mag-insulin gid gilayon ang pasyente.
Pahayag pa sang aktor, pareho nga may diabetes ang iya iloy kag amay.
Ginsiling sini nga ginatinguhaan niya nga mangin mas aktibo ilabi na sa pag-exercise.
Hindi ako mahilig sa treadmill, e,” pahayag pa sini.
Parte subong si Sam sang upcoming Prime Video series nga ‘The Alibi’ kaupod si Kim Chiu kag Paulo Avelino.
Jeremiah vocalist nga si Piwee Polintan, nagtaliwan na
Nagpalab-ot ang pagpakig-unong ang Original Pilipino Music (OPM) community kasunod sang kamatayon sang isa sa lead vocalists sang banda nga Jeremiah.
Suno sa banda, nagtaliwan si Piwee Polintan kasunod sang stroke nga gin-suprer sini sang Oktubre 23.
Ila man ginpasalamatan ang tanan nga nagpangamuyo, nagsuporta, kag nagpalangga kay Piwee ilabi na sang tion nga ginbudlayan ini sa iya nga kondisyon.
Matandaan nga nagsuprer man anay si Piwee sang Stage 4 cancer sa tonsil sang 2007, apang nag-ayo ini paagi sa operasyon kag chemotherapy.
Sang 2011, gindeklarar siya nga cancer-free kag nagbalik ini sa pagkanta.
Una nga nabatian ang Jeremiah sang 1998 kag kilala sa mga kanta nga “Bakit Ka Iiyak?” “Nanghihinayang,” “Kahit Anong Mangyari,” “Basta’t Ikaw,” kag madamo nga iban pa.
Former actor nga si Patrick Dela Rosa, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na ang 80’s matinee idol nga si Patrick Dela Rosa.
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya pamilya kag sang Provincial Information Office sang Oriental Mindoro kun sa diin nagserbe siya anay bilang board member.
As of press time, wala pa ginsapubliko sang pamilya ang rason kag iban nga detalye sa kamatayon sang 64-anyos nga former actor.
Base sa post sang misis sini nga si Arnie Bella dela Rosa, napatay si Patrick sang Domingo sang hapon sa ospital sa California, USA.
Nagpaalam man kay Patrick ang iya utod nga si Dr.
Sa probinsya naman sang Oriental Mindoro, gindumdom si Patrick bilang isa ka maayo nga public servant.
Kabahin sang ila Facebook post: “Taos-pusong nakikidalamhati ang Pamahalaang Panlalawigan sa pamilya ng namayapang si Former Board Member Patrick Dela Rosa.
Maraming salamat sa iyong mga iniwang ala-ala hindi lamang sa industriya ng pag-aartista, kundi maging sa pagbibigay-serbisyo para sa mga Mindoreño.”
Sang Abril, nakasugid pa si Patrick nga nasadyahan gid ini sa iya simple nga pagpangabuhi bilang negosyante sa California matapos sini ginbayaan ang showbiz kag pulitika sa Pilipinas.
Bantog si Patrick sang 1980s kag 1990s sa pagdala sang villain roles sa nagkalain-lain nga action movies.
Lakip sa mga nagtatak nga papel sini amo ang sa mga pelikula nga Kristo, Suspek, Ping Lacson: Super Cop, Sisingilin ko ng Dugo, kag Ex-Con.#
OPM singer kag myembro sang The New Minstrels nga si Louie Reyes, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na ang OPM singer kag myembro sang The New Minstrels nga si Louie Reyes.
“Today, I lost the love of my life,” mensahe sang asawa ni Reyes nga si Cesar dela Fuente sa Facebook post sang OPM icon nga si Ivy Violan.
Nakilala si Reyes bilang kabahin sang The New Minstrels sang 1970s.
Nangin sikat ang amo nga show bangd sa nagkalain-lain nga musical hits kaangay sang “Ikaw, Ako, Tayo’y Magkakapatid,” “Smile,” kag “I Don’t Love You Anymore.”
Nagpadayon man si Reyes sa pag-perform sa Estados Unidos, sa diin nakaangkon siya sang solo oncerts kag reunion concerts kaupod ang The New Minstrels kag Circus Band.
Katy Perry kag Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, ginsapubliko na ang ila relasyon
Ginsapubliko na sang singer nga si Katy Perry kag anay Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau ang ila relasyon.
Ini matapos nga makita ang duha nga naga-holding hands sang sila ang naga-date sa Paris, France sa pagselebrar sang 41 ka kaadlawan sang singer.
Sang nagligad nga bulan, madamo ang nagguwa nga mga huring-huring tuhoy sa ila relasyon matapos nga madamo na ka beses sila nakita nga magkaupod.
Nakita man sila nga nagakup-anay samtang yara sa isa ka yate sa baybayon sang California.
Makapila man ka beses Nakita ang anay Prime Minister nga nagatambong sa concert sang singer.
Emman Atienza, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 19
Nagtaliwan na ang content creator nga si Emman Atienza sa edad nga 19 anyos.
Ginkumpirmar ini sang iya mga ginikanan nga sanday Felicia kag Kim Atienza paagi sa isa ka joint post sa Instagram.
Apang, wala pa ginbuyagyag ang rason sang iya kamatayon.
Sa iya ulihi nga mensahe sa Instagram broadcast channel, ginpakigbahin ni Emman ang iya mga eksperyensya kag kabudlayan nga naangkon bangud sang pressure sa social media.
Ang amo nga post nga ginpahayag sang Setyembre 1, amo man ang nangin ulihi niya nga pahayag sa publiko, kun sa diin iya gin-ako nga gin-deactivate sini ang iya TikTok account.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagapangabay naman ang pamilya ni Emman sa tanan nga tagasuporta sang ila anak nga dumdumon kag ikabuhi ang iya mayo nga pamatasan.
Si Emman ang kilala bilang isa ka masinadyahon nga content creator kag isa man ka aktibo nga mental health advocate.
Sang nagligad lang, nangin trending siya sa social media bangud sang iya panindugan sa isyu sang mga “nepo babies” kag sa gin-alegar nga maanomalya nga flood control projects.
Kim Kardashian, na-diagnose nga may brain aneurysm
Na-diagnose si Kim Kardashian nga may yara sang brain aneurysm.
Ginsapubliko sang 45-anyos nga American media personality ang diagnosis kadungan ang teaser para sa seventh season sang reality show nga “The Kardashians.”
Indi pa klaro kun naga-eksperyensya siya sang sintomas, apang base sa latest season sang amo nga show, makit-an si Kim nga nagapaidalom sa imaging scan.
Sandig sa Mayo Clinic, ang brain aneurysm amo ang “bulge or ballooning” sa blood vessel sa utok sang tawo.
Madamo nga sahi sang brain aneurysms nga may nagkalain-lain nga lebel kun ano kalala kag ginalaragway ini nga kondisyon bilang “common.”
Base sa mga pagtuon, pinaka-common ang brain aneurysms sa adults sa tunga-tunga sang edad nga 30 kag 60-anyos.#
Davey Langit, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 38
Nagtaliwan na ang kilala nga singer ang songwriter nga si Davey Langit sa edad nga 38, nga siya ang nagkanta sang sikat nga “Selfie Song” nga ginbadahan sang anay trending sensation couple nga sanday Jam kag Mich, ukon kilala bilang Jamich.
Ginkumpirmar ini sang iya asawa nga si Therese Villarante-Langit.
Wala pa nabuyagyag ang rason sang iya kamatayon, apang base sa mga post sang nagligad, nag-suffer siya sang rare spinal infection kag na-diagnose lang sang Agosto.
National Highway, Santa Rosa, Laguna, halin Oktubre 23 tubtob 26, kag sa St.
Matandaan nga Si Davey ang nagsugod sang iya music career sang 2006 bilang kabahin sang “Pinoy Dream Academy” season 1.
Magluwas sa “Selfie Song,” kilala man siya sa iya mga kanta nga “Wedding Song” kag “Idjay.”
Raymart Santiago, nagsabat kay Inday Barretto, nanginwala nga gin-abusuhan sini si Claudine
Ginpanginwala sang aktor nga si Raymart Santiago nga gin-abusuhan sini ang iya anay asawa nga si Claudine Barretto.
Kabahin ini sang iya ginpaguwa nga statement matapos gin-release sang entertainment insider nga si Ogie Diaz ang tell-all interview sa matriarch sang Barretto family nga si Estrella “Inday” Barretto.
Sa amo nga interview, gin-alegar ni Inday nga may pisikal kag emosyonal nga pagpang-abuso nga ginhimo si Raymart kay Claudine.
Gin-alegar pa sini nga nasaksihan mismo sang iya apo nga si Santino ang ginapahayag nga pagpanakit sang aktor.
Dugang pa sang iloy nga Barreto, gin-angkon ni Raymart ang propiedad nga para kuntani sa iya kabataan.
Sa statement naman ni Raymart, ginsiling sini nga nagapalapta si Mrs.
Gin-akusaran man sini si Claudine nga naga-sulit-sulit sa paggamit sa social media kag nagahimo sang “trial by publicity” agud nga ma-discredit siya.
Suno sa mga abogado ni Raymart, nag-umpisa ang sentimyento sang iloy nga Barretto sa conjugal land nga ginbaligya ni Claudine tatlo ka tuig na ang nakaligad apisar nga wala sang ihibalo ang aktor natuhoy diri.
Gindugang sa statement nga indi luyag ni Raymart nga ma-involve sa anuman nga dispute ukon iregularidad nga posible nahimo ni Claudine.
Ginpahanumdom man sang mga abogado ni Raymart sa kampo sang mga Barretto nga may yara sang gag order halin sa Mandaluyong City Family Court nga ginpaguwa sang September 2023 kag tinuig man ini nga ginsunod sang aktor.
Matandaan nga nagpakasal sanday Claudine kag Raymart sang 2006 apang nag-file sang annulment sang 2013.
Si Santino amo ang ila isahanon nga biological child, kag gin-adopt naman ni Claudine sanday Sabina, Quia, kag Noah.
American singer nga si Britney Spears, ginbuyagyag nga may yara sang brain damage
Ginbuyagyag sang American singer nga si Britney Spears nga may yara ini sang brain damage.
Sa iya social media account, ginpahayag sini nga magluwas nga ginkakas ang iya mga pakpak, may yara man siya sang brain damage pila ka tuig na ang nakaligad.
Wala ginpaathag sang singer kon ano ang iya buot silingon kon diin ang iya mga pakpak sang may pilas siya sa iya abaga.
Sang 2019, nagsuprerher man siya sang mental health problem nga ginapatihan gintunaan sang iya brain damage.
Matandaan nga gin-ako man sang singer nga naga-inom ini sang makahulubog nga ilimnon samtang nagabusong kag padayon nga ginabulong.
Veteran actress Gloria “Lollie” Mara, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 86-anyos
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 86 anyos ang beterana nga aktres nga si Gloria “Lollie” Mara sang Oktubre 17.
Ini matapos nga ginkumpirmar sang iya pamilya, apang wala lang ginbuyagyag ang rason sang kamatayon sini.
Matandaan nga si Lollie ang nakilala sa iya mga nangin papel sa nagkalain-lain nga pelikula kag TV shows halin pa sang 1980s.
Sang tuig 2016, ginpasidunggan siya bilang Best Supporting Actress sa Cinemalaya para sa iya performance kaupod ni Elizabeth Oropesa.
Magluwas sa iya karera sa entertainment industry, nagserbe man si Mara bilang head sang Radio Television Malacañang (RTVM) sa idalom sang administrasyon ni anay Presidente Fidel Ramos.
Bea Alozo, ginpanginwala ang isyu nga nagabusong ini
Ginpanginwala sang actress nga si Bea Alonzo ang nagalapta nga mga huring-huring nga siya kuno ang nagabusong sa bata nila sang iya nobyo nga si Vincent Co.
Sa isa ka post sa Instagram, nagpasalamat si Bea sa tanan nga mga nagpadala sang mensahe kag pagtamyaw sa iya kaadlawan.
Kadungan sini, ginklaro man sang aktres nga wala siya nagabusong, kasunod sang nagviral nga litrato.
Ang nasambit nga picture ang ginkuha sa isa ka simple nga pagtililipon nga ginpreparar sang iya mga staff, sa diin makita nga ginatabunan sini ang iya nga tiyan sang bulak.
Matandaan nga sang Agusto, ginkumpirmar ni Bea nga may relasyon na sila ni Vincent Co matapos ang pila ka bulan nga mga huring-huring angot sa ila nga duha.
Ini bangud man nga masami sila nga makit-an sa nagkalain-lain nga mga event.
Suno kay Bea, mas ginapili niya nga ipabilin nga pribado ang iya personal nga kabuhi, ilabi na ang iya love life.
Ini ang sabat ni former Ilocos Sur governor Chavit Singson sa mga rumor nga may yara siya sang “special relationship” sa aktres nga si Jillian Ward.
Suno sa 84-anyos nga pulitiko halin sa Ilocos, lunsay tsismis lang ang nagalapta nga mga istorya nahanungod sa iya pagka-link sa madamo nga babaye.
Nagsugod ang espekulasyon sang nagguwa ang mga blind item nga may espesyal nga relasyon sa tunga nanday Singson kag Jillian, kag may netizens pa nga nagagatong sang istorya nga mas nagsuod ang pag-updanay sang duha.
Napa-“next question” naman si Singson sang ginpamangkot natuhoy kun may relasyon gid man sila anay ni Yen Santos.
Una na nga gin-athag ni Yen nga wala sila sang anak ni Singson, kag ang bata nga masami makita sang mga tawo amo ang iya manghod, kag si Singson naman ang maninoy sang iya nga utod.
Kun may isa man nga ginkumpirma si Singson, ini amo nga nagapangita siya subong sang romantic partner nga amo ang magatatap sa iya.
Pahayag sini, gusto niya ini pakaslan, kag bukas siya sa kun sin-o man ini, sa kondisyon nga maayo lang ang tagipusuon.
“Talagang naghahanap ako ngayon ng pwedeng mapakasalan para may mag-aalaga naman sa akin.
Para sa pagbibiyahe-biyahe ko, may makasama ako.
Kahit na sino, basta maganda ang puso,” suno sa anay gobernador.
Cole Micek, nagdedikar sang mata-is nga mensahe para kay Chelsea Manalo
Nagdedikar sang matam-isa nga mensahe paagi sa iya instagram ang Fil-Am basketball player kag model nga si Cole Micek sa iya pinalangga nga nobya nga beauty queen kag birthday girl nga si Chelsea Manalo.
Sa caption sang post, gintawag ni Cole si Chelsea nga “most beautiful woman in the universe” kag gintamyaw sang “Happiest birthday baby”.
Ginpakigbahin man ni Cole ang pila pa ka mga pictures nga nagapakita sang ila mga moments sang Miss Universe Asia 2024 paagi sa iya Instagram Stories sa diin gintawag man niya ini nga “my birthday girl.”
Suno kay Cole, si Chelsea amo ang rason kun ngaa masami siya nagayuhom kag ginpabutyag nga palangga gid niya ini.
Matandaan nga nagguwa ang mga huring-huring nga naga-date ang duwa sang Hunyo.
Aljur Abrenica, indi pa kumportable nga istoryahan kun may anak na sila ni AJ Raval
Indi pa handa ang aktor nga si Aljur Abrenica nga istoryahan kun ano ang kamatuoran sa isyu nga may duha na sila ka anak ni AJ Raval.
Ini apisar nga ang nagbulgar sini amo mismo ang amay ni AJ nga si Jeric Raval.
Suno kay Aljur, sa sunod lang ugaling ini istoryahan kag may husto gid na tion para masugid ang tanan.
Everything will be unveiled in time, sa susunod,” paathag sang aktor.
Apisar sini, ginklaro niya nga nahangpan sini ang statement ni Jeric bangud “tatay” man ini, kag nakahibalo siya kun ano ang iya intensyon.
Alam niyo ‘yung complication sa mag-ama minsan kasi di natin nakikita.
Ginpahayag ni Aljur nga indi man perpekto ang ila relasyon ni AJ, apang puno ini sang espasyo para sa ila nga growth bilang mga indibidwal.
Gin-athag man sang aktor nga “on good terms” sila ni Kylie Padilla samtang nga naga-co parent sa ila duha ka kabataan kag samtang nga ginaproseso ang ila nga annulment.
Napaguusapan namin updates sa bata, kamusta sila.
Pag aaral nila, especially sa iPad and gadgets.
Naba-balance namin,” dugang pa ni Aljur.
Ilonggo film na Tumandok, humakot ng parangal sa 2025 Gawad Urian
Nag-uwi ng apat na pangunahing parangal ang Ilonggo film na “Tumandok” sa prestihiyosong 48th Gawad Urian Awards na ginanap sa De La Salle University noong Oktubre 11.
Ginawaran bilang “Pinakamahusay na Direktor” sina Richard Jeroui Salvadico at Arlie Sweet Sumagaysay.
Nasungkit rin ng pelikula ang mga parangal na Best Supporting Actor para sa yumaong si G.
Felipe Ganancial, Best Screenplay para kina Arden Rod Condez at Sumagaysay, at Best Music para kay Paulo Almaden at “The Ati People of Kabarangkalan and Nagpana.”
Sa kanilang talumpati, inialay ng mga direktor ang tagumpay sa komunidad ng Ati sa Sitio Kabarangkalan, Barotac Viejo, Iloilo, na siyang sentro ng kwento ng pelikula.
Lubos din ang pasasalamat nila sa buong production crew na nagsikap upang maipreserba ang kwento ng komunidad na nagtiwala sa kanila.
Sa mensahe ni Sumagaysay, binigyang-diin niya ang kahalagahan ng pagpapalaganap ng respeto at cultural sensitivity.
Samantala, sa talumpati ni Salvadico, tinalakay niya ang isyu ng korapsyon.
Ayon sa kanya, kung hindi lamang ninanakaw ang pondo, maaari sanang gamitin ito upang mapabuti ang buhay ng mga katutubong pamayanan.
Matatandaang ang “Tumandok,” na tampok ang mga Ati bilang mga cast, ay humakot din ng mga parangal tulad ng Best Film, Best Original Music Score, Best Screenplay, at NETPAC Full-Length Feature Award sa 20th Cinemalaya Philippine Independent Film Festival.#
Beauty queen Celeste Cortesi kag nobyo sini nga si Sterling, naghatag sang bulig sa Cebu kag Davao, Oriental
Naghatag sang kabug-usan nga P10 million ang beauty queen kag negosysante nga si Celeste Cortesi para sa mga biktima sang mga nagluntad nga linog sa Cebu kag Davao Oriental.
Suno sa report, una nga naghatag sang P5 million si Celeste kaupod ang iya partner nga si Jonathan Sterling sa mga biktima sang magnitude 6.9 nga linog sa Cebu sang Setyembre 30 pinaagi sa ila Asul hope Foundation, kaupod ang Angat Buhay Foundation.
Kasunod sini, liwat sila naghatag sang P5 million nga donasyon para sa mga naapektuhan sang sunod-sunod nga linog sa Davao Oriental sang Oktubre 10, kaupod ang Philippines Red Cross (PRC).
Nagpasalamat naman ang PRC kanday Celeste kag Sterling sa ila kontribusyon sa recue kag relief operations sa Davao.
SB19, maga-perform sa Roma sa Oktubre 12
Maga-perform sa Roma ang Filipino P-pop supergroup nga SB19.
Patigayunon ini sa Spazio Atlantico sa Rome, Italy sa Oktubre 12 para sa “Sama sa Roma” event nga kabahin sang selebrasyon sang 2025 bilang Jubilee Year sa Catholic Church.
Ang nag-organisar sang Sama sa Roma amo ang Simbayanan (Simbahan, Bayan, kag Bayanihan) nga ginakabig nga multisectoral representation sang simbahan, gobyerno, kag pribado nga sector agud nga mapabakod pa ang identity sang mga Pilipino sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Libre ang admission para sa una nga 1,700 nga magparehistro sa event.
Una na nga gin-anunsyo sang grupo nga indi madayon ang Riyadh leg sang ila nga “Simula at Wakas” tour bangud sa ‘unforeseen circumstances’
Ang SB19 ang ginabug-usan nanday Pablo, Josh, Stell, Ken, kag Justin.
Lakip sa ila ginpasikat nga kanta amo ang “Mapa,” “Gento,” “Dam,” “Dungka” kag iban pa.
Iga-selebrar sang grupo ang ila nga anibersaryo sa October 26 paagi sa “Fast Zone,” isa ka fashion music event kaupod sa Filipino designer nga si Francis Libiran.
Kim Chiu, nagbakal sang construction materials para sa mga biktima sang linog sa Cebu
Personal nga gin-asikaso sang actress-host nga si Kim Chiu ang pagbakal sang mga construction materials para sa mga biktima sang magnitude 6.9 nga linog sa Cebu.
Ginpuno sini ang duha ka 10-wheeler trucks sang mga materyales agud nga makabulig nga matukod liwat ang mga naguba nga mga balay.
Magluwas sa pag-upod sa warehouse, hands-on man ang aktres sa mga paperworks para sa donasyon.
Nagdako si Kim sa Cebu, kag natabuan man nga yara sa amo nga lugar ang taping sang iya nga latest project sang natabo ang linog sang Martes sang gab-i, Septyembre 30.
Antes kay Kim, ang iya co-star sa “The Alibi” nga si Zsa Zsa Padilla ang nagkadto man sa Capitol Command Center agud magdonar sang ready-to-eat food packs.
Naghatag naman ang host-comedienne nga si Melai Cantiveros sang P100,000 sa isa ka grupo sa amo nga probinsya nga naglunsar sang fundraising project.
May iban pa nga celebrities kag personalities nga naghatag sang bulig kag nagpanawagan sang suporta kag pagpangamuyo para sa mga Cebuano samtang naga-amat-amat bangon gikan sa trahedya.
Base sa Office of Civil Defense, nagsaka na sa 73 ang numero sang patay kag masobra naman sa 3,000 ang na-rekord nga aftershocks.#
Nadia Montenegro, nag-file sang kaso vs.
Ginkasuhan sang actress nga si Nadia Montenegro ang isa ka empleyado sang Senado kag pila ka mga media outlet.
Ini may kaangtanan sa alegasyon nga nadakpan ini nga nagagamit sang marijuana sa sulod sang comfort room sang Senate building.
Kaso nga libel ang ipasaka sini sa batok sa pila ka mga media outlets samtang kaso naman nga unjust vexation batok sa isa ka empleyado sang Senado nga nag-akusar sa iya.
Ginpasaka niya ini sa Pasay City Prosecutors’ Office.
Suno sa abogado sang actress nga ang mga impormasyon nga ginpalapta batok kay Nadia ang wala sang kamatuoran kag malisyoso.
Pahayag man sang actress nga masarangan sini nga magbuya sa puwesto bilang empleyado sang Senado ang indi para mag-ako nga guilty kundi para nga wala sang may madalahig nga iban.
Isa man sa rason sa pag-resign sang actress amo ang pagpakita sang respeto sa opisina ni Senator Robin Padilla kun sa diin siya naga-ubra kag amo man sa imahe sang Senado.
Ginkakas ni Shuvee Etrata ang iya nga opisyal X Twitter account pila ka adlaw matapos siya nga ginkondenar bangud sa isa ka video kun sa diin ginapakita niya ang simpatiya para kay anay Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Umpisa sang Setyembre 28, indi na ma-acess sang mga netizen ang iya nga X page.
Apisar sang natabo, aktibo sagihapon ang actress sa Instagram, kun sa diin nagpakigbahin siya sang mga highlights sang iya mga ginhimo sang Sabado, Setyembre 27 nga may caption nga “Padayon lang ta” (Let’s just keep going).
Nag-umpisa ang kontrobesya sang naglapta ang isa ka screen-recorded video sang aktres nga nagapakita sang iya simpatiya sa pagkaaresto ni Duterte sang International Criminal Court (ICC) sang Marso.
Matapos ang backlash, nagpangayo si Shuvee sang patawad kag nagsiling nga indi niya gusto nga mangin bukas sa mga amo nga mga estorya bangud sa nangin “divisive” ini.
Samtang, gindepensahan naman siya sang iya ka tiyo kag handler nga si Yure, pati man si Annette Gozon-Valdes, kun sa diin ginpahayag sini nga indi naman siya isa ka “diehard” sang bisan sin-o nga pulitiko.
Selena Gomez kag Benny Blanco, ginkasal na
Opisyal na nga mag-asawa sanday singer-actress Selena Gomez kag record producer Benny Blanco matapos ang pila ka tuig nga pag-updanay.
Sa isa ka Instagram post ni Selena nga may caption nga “🤍 9.27.25 🤍,” ginpakigbahin niya ang ila wedding photos kun sa diin makita nga naka-white wedding gown ini samtang naka-black tuxedo naman si Benny.
Una nga nagkilalahay ang duha sang tuig 2015 sang nangin co-producer si Benny sang hit single ni Selena nga “Same Old Love,” nga nangin umpisa naman sang ila padayon nga collaboration.
Sa isa ka pahayag, ginpakigbahin ni Selena kun paano nahulog ang iya buot kay Benny, nga gintawag pa niya ini nga “best friend.”
Matandaan nga gin-anunsyo sang duha ang ila relasyon sa publiko sang nagligad nga tuig kadungan sang engagement announcement sa Instagram.
Actress nga si Alexa Miro, ginkumpirmar nga nangin magkarelasyon sila ni Sandro Marcos sang lima ka tuig
Ginkumpirmar sang actress kag modelo nga si Alexa Miro nga nangin sila sang presidential son kag Ilocos Norte Representative Sandro Marcos sang lima ka tuig.
Suno kay Mira nga wala nila ginpasapubliko ang ila relasyon para sa “safety purposes and precautions,” ilabi na nga anak si Sandro sang Presidente.
Suno pa kay Alexa nga nagpasugot nalang ini sa amo nga set-up bangud gina-intindi sini ang presidential son.
Apang subong, gusto na niya mahibaluan sang publiko bangud sang una pa ini natabo.
Nahibaluan nga halin sang una ginakabig sang publiko nga mag-abyan lang ang duha bangud sa closeness sang mga ini kag wala sang kumpirmasyon sa ila nga relasyon.
Suno pa sa ila nga may mga bagay lang sila nga ginakonsiderar kag padayon sila nga nagalaom sang manami nga furture sa kada-isa biskan indi na sila nga duha subong.
May pahayag man nga ang rason sang breakup nila amo nga may “third party” kag dugang pa ni Alexa nga palangga niya sa gihapon si Sandro kag indi ina magbag-o.
Sa isang Instagram post, ibinahagi ni Jessica ang ilang larawan at alaala mula sa kanyang naging paglalakbay simula nang una siyang sumali sa kompetisyon sa edad na 10.
Ayon sa kanya, ang kanyang tagumpay ay hindi lamang bunga ng isang gabi o isang performance, kundi ng mahigit dalawang dekadang pagsisikap na kinapalooban ng auditions, rejections, at mga sandaling pinanghinaan ng loob.
Aniya, patunay ang kanyang karanasan na “dreams delayed are not dreams denied,” at na ang lahat ay nakabatay sa tamang oras ng Diyos.
Nagpasalamat si Jessica sa kanyang pamilya, mga kaibigan, at lahat ng sumuporta sa kanya, sabay bigyang-diin na ang kanyang panalo ay hindi lamang para sa kanya kundi para sa lahat ng patuloy na lumalaban sa kabila ng mga pagsubok.
Bago niya tinapos ang kanyang mensahe, nagbigay din siya ng espesyal na pagbati para sa anak na si Eliana Mae: “Mama did it.
Si Jessica ay unang nakilala sa “AGT” nang makarating siya sa semifinals sa edad na 10.
Mas sumikat siya bilang runner-up sa “American Idol” Season 11.
Bumalik siya sa “AGT” noong Hulyo kung saan kinanta niya ang “Beautiful Things” ni Benson Boone at nakakuha ng golden buzzer mula kay Sofia Vergara.
Sa finale episode, tinanghal niya ang makapangyarihang bersyon ng kantang “Golden Hour” ni JVKE na nagbigay-daan sa kanyang kampeonato.
Heart Evangelista, nagdepensa kasunod sang mga kritisismo sa iya pag-absent sa anti-corruption protest
Emosyonal nga gindepensahan ni Heart Evangelista ang iya kaugalingon sa tunga sang mga kritisismo nga iya nabaton kaangot sa iya nga lifestyle kag pag-absent sini sa rally kontra kurapsyon sang Domingo, Septyembre 21.
Pahayag sang model-actress, wala siya sa protesta bangud sa mga pamahog nga iya nabaton nga ubahan siya kun magkadto siya sa rally.
Ginpamangkot sini ang publiko kun ano ang iya nahimo nga sala nga amo sini ang kaugot sa iya.
I’m not in the rally is because a lot of people said na huhubaran niyo ako kung pupunta ako sa rally.
Ginbalikan man sini nga 13-anyos pa lang siya, naga-obra na siya nga buot silingon 27 ka tuig na siya nga naga-trabaho sang wala-untat nga nagakahulugan nga madamo siya sang napalampas nga oportunidad kag na-miss nga mga normal nga parte sang kabuhi.
That’s 27 years of working non-stop,” suno sa iya.
Pahayag sini, daw kaangay nga nadula lang ini tanan nga pinangabudlayan bangud gina-target siya bilang asawa sang pulitiko.
Dugang ni Heart, bangud sa sini nga isyu sa kurapsyon sa pungsod, nag-desisyon siya nga indi anay magtambong sa anuman nga mga show sa Fashion Week.
Sa mga alegasyon naman batok sa iya, nagpaandam ini nga magapasaka sang kaso batok sa mga nagahigko sang iya pangalan: “I have been having meetings with my attorney, and definitely I will not take it sitting down what some people have been saying about me, not even allegedly.”
Nag-umpisa ini nga isyu sang naglupok ang kontrobersiya sa flood control projects scandal kag gin-isa-isa sang mga netizen ang lifestyle sang mga pamilya sang mga pulitiko kag kontraktor.
Ang bana ni Heart nga si Senator Francis “Chiz” Escudero ang ginkakas bilang Senate President.
Mismo si Lubiano ang nag-ako sa pamangkot ni Akbayan Rep.
Chel Diokno nga nakahatag siya sang P30-million kay Escudero sang nagligad nga kampanya.
‘Pinaikot-ikot lang tayo, tama na’: Sarah G., gingamit ang UAAP stage agud manawagan vs kurapsyon
Gingamit sang Popstar Royalty nga si Sarah Geronimo ang entablado sa opening ceremony sang UAAP Season 88 sa University of Santo Tomas (UST) agud nga manindugan batok sa kurapsyon nga nagakatabo sa Pilipinas.
Antes mag-perform sang chorus sang iya 2013 hit song nga “Ikot-Ikot,” ginsal-ot sang singer ang problema subong sa pungsod partikular sa mga anomaliya sa flood control projects.
“Kay rami ng sakit na nilimot, napabayaan.’Di maiwasang isipin na tayo’y para bang— Parang panloloko sa bansa natin.
“‘Di naman po lingid sa kaalaman natin na napakaraming nangyayaring kaguluhan, kasinungalingan, panloloko ang ginagawa sa ating bansa… Ang ating mga kabataan, kayo ang pag-asa ng ating bansa, ng ating bayan.
One day, kayo ang magbabago ng bulok na sistema ng bansang ito.
‘Wag kayong mawalan ng pag-asa.… Patuloy na magtiwala na balang araw mababago din ang bulok na sistemang ‘yan at uunlad din ang ating mahal na bansang Pilipinas,” dugang sini sa iya nga panawagan.
Naghinugyaw naman ang audience sa ad lib sang singer-actress.
30,000 ang nagtambong sa amo nga seremonya nga kadam-an amo ang mga estudyante kag student-athletes halin sa walo ka mga eskwelahan sa UAAP.
Julia Barretto kag Gerald Anderson, bulagay na
Ginkumpirma sang kampo nanday Julia Barretto kag Gerald Anderson nga bulagay na sila.
Base sa statement sang talent agency sang 36-anyos nga actor, pareho nila nga desisyon ang ila nga separasyon.
May linya naman sa statement sang Viva Artists nga nagapatimaan nga madugay na natabo ang break-up antes ini opisyal nga ginsapubliko.
Wala sang ginhatag nga eksakto nga rason sang ila nga breakup.
Matandaan nga gin-anunsyo sang veteran actor kag 28-anyos nga aktres ang ila relasyon sang tuig 2021, matapos ang break-up ni Gerald sa iya anay long time girlfriend nga si Bea Alonzo.
Suno kay Cindi Berger, CEO sang publicity firm nga Rogers & Cowan PMK, ginbawian sang kabuhi ang Hollywood legend sa ila puluy-an sa Sundance, Utah, Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Wala gintumod ni Berger ang rason sang kamatayon sang entertainment icon.
Pagkatapos nga magsikat sang 1960s, isa si Redford sa ginatangla sang 1970s bangud sa mga pelikula nga “The Candidate,” “All the President’s Men” kag “The Way We Were.”
Natapos niya ang amo nga dekada nga ginpasidunggan bilang Best Director sa Oscars para sa pelikula nga “Ordinary People” sang 1980 nga amo man ang nagdaug bilang Best Picture.
Nakit-an man siya bilang Alexander Pierce sa mga pelikula nga “Avengers: Endgame” kag “Captain America: The Winter Soldier.”
Si Redford man ang founder sang Sundance Film Festival nga tuigan nga ginapatigayon sa Utah halin pa sang 1978.#
Bela Padilla, ginsapubliko ang rason sang ila pagbulaganay sang iya Swiss boyfriend
Ginbuyagyag sang aktres nga si Bela Padilla ang rason sang ila pagbulagay sang iya Swiss boyfriend nga si Norman Bay matapos ang apat ka tuig nga relasyon.
Suno kay Bela, ang desisyon niya nga magbalik sa Pilipinas amo ang rason sang break up.
Pahayag pa niya, gin-prangka niya mismo si Norman kun handa ini nga mag-upod sa iya sa Pilipinas apang nagpamalibad ang iya ex-boyfriend.
Dugang pa sang aktres, ginatahod niya ang desisyon sang iya ex-boyfriend bangud may yara ini sang maayo nga trabaho sa London.
Gin-ako man ni Bela nga nasakitan siya sa ila nga pagbulagay bangud tuman niya ini nga ginpalangga.
Apang sa pihak sang break up, nagapabilin nga ‘friends’ ang duha.
Kris Aquino, magapaidalom sa duha ka scheduled surgical procedures subong nga adlaw
Nag-update ang Queen of all Media nga si Kris Aquino nga magapaidalom siya sa duha ka surgical procedures.
Gin-post sini sa Instagram ang black and white photo sang ginapatihan nga prominent punctures sa iya panit sa chest area.
Naghingyo man ini sang pangamuyo indi lamang para sa iya kundi para sa iya nga surgeons, cardio-interventionists, nurses, kag bilog nga OR team nga amo ang magahimo sang operasyon subong na mismo nga aga, Septyembre 10.
Sang nagligad nga bulan, ginpahayag ni Kris nga magapabilin siya sa isolation sa compound sang iya nga pamilya sa Tarlac para sa bag-o nga treatment sa iya nga autoimmune conditions.
Lady Gaga naghakot sang awards sa 2025 MTV Video Music Awards
Naghakot sang pasidungog si Lady Gaga sa 2025 MTV Video Music Awards.
Nakuha naman ni Ariana Grande ang Video of the Year award sa iya “Brighter Days Ahead” kag Best Pop.
Nagdaog naman si BlackPink member Rose kag Bruno Mars bilang Song of The Year Award sa kanilang kanta nga “APT”.
Ginpasidunggan naman bilang Best New Artist si Alex Warren samtang ang K-pop group nga Blackpink bilang Best Group.
Angel Aquino, nabiktima sang deepfake porn, ginduso nga silutan pati ang naga-share sini nga posts
Luyag sang aktres nga si Angel Aquino nga may mapasar nga layi sa Pilipinas batok sa mga naga-obra kag nagapalapta sang mga malaswa nga mga post nga gina-gamitan sang artificial intelligence ukon AI.
Gindiskusyunan ini sa hearing sang Senate Committee on Women, Children, Family Relations and Gender Equality nga ginapangunahan ni Senador Risa Hontiveros.
Naangot ini sa isyu sang deepfake porn kun sa diin ginabutang ang nawong sang isa ka tawo sa malain nga video ukon litrato.
Upod sa mga bisita sa hearing ang beterana nga aktre nga nagsiling nga nangin biktima siya sang A.I.
porn matapos ginbutang ang iya nawong sa isa ka porn video.
Nagalaum si Angel nga makasunod ang Pilipinas sa paghimo sang layi agud mapunggan ang mga ilegal nga aktibidad gamit ang moderno nga teknolohiya.
Gusto man sini nga pasabton ang mga naga-share kag naga-repost sang malaswa nga mga post nga gin-gamitan sang AI.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagalaum naman ang Anti-Cyber Crime Group sang Philippine National Police nga mapa-inan sila sang pondo agud makabakal sang gamit nga makabulig sa ila nga mapangita ang malain nga mga content online kaangay sang deepfake.#
Iselebrar sang P-Pop Kings nga SB19 ang ila ikapito nga debut anniversary paagi sa isa ka collaboration upod ang kilala nga Filipino fashion designer nga si Francis Libiran, kag ini ang may titulo nga Fast Zone.
Natalana ini sa Oktubre 26 sa Araneta Coliseum.
Ang SB19 masako subong sa ila Simula at Wakas World Tour kag nag-perform sa Singapore kag Indonesia sang damlag lang.
Sang Hulyo, gin-release nila ang ila collaboration song upod sa Popstar Royalty nga si Sarah Geronimo nga amo ang “Umaaligid.”
Cristine Reyes, nagkumpirma nga may ka-date ini nga non-showbiz personality
Ginkumpirma ni Cristine Reyes nga naga-date na siya liwat kasunod sang ila pagbulagay ni Marco Gumabao.
Pahayag sang 36-anyos nga aktres, ka-date sini subong ang isa ka non-showbiz personality nga wala pa sini ginhingadlan.
“Yes, [I am happy now]… Mas private,” pahayag sini sa isa ka interview.
Wala sini ginsapubliko kun ano ang rason sang iya breakup kay Marco, apang pahayag sini, maayo gihapon ang ila nga pagtamdanay.
“Sa amin na lang iyon, respect na namin sa isa’t isa.
Abril 2025 pa sang nagguwa ang rumors sang ila nga pagbulagay sang host-actor.
Sang nagligad nga bulan naman, nag-umpisa sa pagguwa ang espekulasyon nga bag-o nga karelasyon ni Cristine si anay National Youth Commission (NYC) chairperson Gio Tingson.
Nakit-an sila nga magkaupod sa tourist sites kag sa art gallery kag nagakaon sa Vietnamese restaurants sa Hanoi, Vietnam.#
Magapaidalom liwat ang British singer nga si Jessie J sa isa pa ka operasyon para sa cancer treatment.
Ginpahibalo niya ini sa fans kadungan sang announcement nga ikanselar sini ang iya tour dates sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika nga matabo kuntani sa Nobyembre; samtang iga-reschedule naman ang iya events sa Europa —halin sa Oktubre 2025, ginsaylo sa Abril 2026.
Pahayag sini, posible matabo ang iya ikaduha nga surgery antes magtakop ang 2025.
Nagpangayo ini sang pasensya nga indi madayon ang iya nauna nga plano sa tour dates, apang ginpaathag man nga kinahanglan sini anay nga mag-ayo.
Hunyo sang ginsapubliko sang singer-songwriter nga na-diagnose siya nga may early-stage breast cancer.
Sang amo man nga bulan, kasunod sang iya performance sa Summertime Ball sa London, nagpaidalom siya sa una nga operasyon.
Claudine Barretto, emosyonal na nagbahagi ng laban sa depresyon—humihiling ng pang-unawa para sa kapwa dumaranas nito
(Paalala, may paksa tungkol sa depresyon.)
Naglabas ng damdamin ang aktres na si Claudine Barretto matapos maospital dahil sa depresyon, kasabay ng panawagang unawain ang mga taong dumaranas nito.
Sa isang Instagram post, ibinahagi ni Claudine ang ilang larawan habang nasa ospital, kalakip ang pahayag na ang kaniyang kalagayan ay patunay na ang depresyon ay hindi basta-basta nakikita sa panlabas na anyo.
Nanawagan siyang huwag agad husgahan ang may pinagdaraanan, at iginiit ang pangangailangan ng mas malawak na pag-unawa at malasakit.
Nagpaabot naman ng suporta ang ilang personalidad gaya nina Vilma Santos at Vina Morales.
Ayon sa kanila, naroon sila upang ipadama ang pagmamahal at panalangin para sa aktres.
Ang depresyon ay isang malubhang kondisyon sa kalusugan ng isip na may malalim na epekto sa pag-iisip, emosyon, at kilos ng isang indibidwal.
Maaari itong magdulot ng matinding lungkot at mawalan ng gana o interes sa mga bagay na dati’y nagbibigay saya o kasiyahan sa kaniya.
Kung ikaw o may kilala kang nangangailangan ng makakausap, maaaring tumawag sa crisis hotline ng Philippine National Center for Mental Health sa mga numerong 0917-899-8726 para sa Globe o TM, 0908-639-2672 para sa Smart, Sun, o TNT, o 1553 na maaaring tawagan ng libre saan mang panig ng bansa.
Gitarista sang metal band nga Mastodon nga si Brent Hinds, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 51
Nagtaliwan na ang gitarista sang metal band nga Mastodon nga si Brent Hinds sa edad nga 51.
Ginkumpirmar sang banda ang pagtaliwan ni Hinds matapos nga maaksidente sakay sa iya nga motorsiklo a Atlanta.
Isa ini sa nagtukod sang banda sadtong 2000 kun sa diin ang mga miyembro amo sanday Troy Sanders, Bill Kelliher kag Brann Dailor.
Nakahimo ang mga ini sang walo ka mga albums kun sa diin nagdaog sa Grammys ang kanta sang mga ini nga “Sultan’s Curse” sang 2018.
Sang Marso lamang sang gin-anunsyar sang grupo nga sila ang nagseparar na.
Napilian ang pelikula nga “Green Bones” bilang opisyal nga entry sang Pilipinas para sa 2026 Oscars ukon ang prestihiyoso nga 98th Academy Awards sa kategorya nga International Feature Film.
Sa Metro Manila Film Festival 2024, naghakot ang Green Bones sang anum ka awards lakip na ang Best Actor para kay Dennis; Best Supporting Actor para kay Ruru; kag ang ang Best Picture.
Sa Disyembre mahibaluan kun sulod sa shortlist ini nga Filipino film.
Hiwaton naman ang seremonya sa March 15, 2026.
Nahibaluan nga may 34 cumulative submissions na ang Pilipinas sa sini nga category, apang wala pa gid sang na-nominate sa Oscar.
Ang 2024 submission amo ang And So It Begins.#
Nagpaidalom si Kris Aquino sa surgical procedures nga kabahin sang mas agresibo nga phase sang medical treatment sa iya autoimmune diseases.
Suno sa Queen of All Media, nag-umpisa sang procedures sang Agusto 20 kag sang ulihi ginsaylo siya sa cardiac operating room para sa pagbutang sang port-a-cath ukon ang gamay nga device nga gina-implant para nga mas mahapos ang access sa veins sang pasyente.
Sa Instagram, ginpakigbahin ni Kris nga nadumduman sini ang iya iloy nga ginbutangan man anay sang port-a-cath, apang wala gid nagreklamo suno sa iya bisan nga wala ini gani sang pain management doctor.
Para kay Kris, sanday Bimby kag Josh ang rason kun ngaa padayon siya nga nagabato sa iya nga kondisyon: “If I wasn’t their mama, matagal na po akong sumuko.”
Nahangpan man sini nga pamuno pa lang ini sang mas aggressive treatment para nga mabuhi siya.
Una na nga naghatag ang mga doctor sang anum ka bulan agud nga mag-isolate ang aktres kag agud maghimo sang optimal treatment plan.
Sang Abril matandaan nga ginpahayag sini nga may siyam na siya ka ginasuprer nga autoimmune diseases, kag nagpaidalom man sa medical procedure sang amo nga bulan.#
Gin-ako sang internet personality nga si Lars Pacheco nga tatlo ka beses siya nga nagluib sa iya anay boyfriend nga si Clyde Vivas.
Lakip ini sa five-minute Facebook video ni Pacheco matapos gin-anunsyo sa publiko nga nagbulagay na sila ni Clyde nga pito ka tuig man niya nangin karelasyon.
Pahayag sini, ginhimo niya ang confession agud nga matapos na ang mga espekulasyon kag masabat na ang mga pamangkot kaangot sa ila nga breakup.
Gin-share sini nga ang una niya nga pag-cheat ang natabo sang nahubog siya kag may nakilala nga isa ka Taiwanese national.
Pagkaaga suno sa iya, nagbugtaw na lang siya nga tupad na niya ang lalaki.
Natabo ang ikaduha nga pagluib sini sang nag-trabaho siya “out of town” kag may lalaki siya nga ginhatagan sang iya number.
Wala sila sang personal ukon intimate nga istoryahanay, apang suno kay Pacheco, nareyalisar niya nga nahulog ang iya buot — bagay nga may gintungdan nga papel sa iya pag-evaluate sang iya relasyon kay Vivas.
“Hindi ko sinasabi kasi proud ako, hindi ko rin alam kung ano ang nangyari, pero na-miss ko ‘yung pakiramdam na kiligin… Basta, I miss the feeling of being, you know, important to someone.”
Ang ikatlo nga hitabo ang ginakabig ni Pacheco nga “worst” bangud suno sa iya, gindul-ong pa siya ni Vivas sang nagpakigtabo siya sa isa ka lalaki nga halin sa Portugal.
Suno kay Lars, indi siya proud sa iya nga ginhimo, apang luyag niya nga mangin accountable, kag ginpili na lang sini nga tapuson ang ila nga relasyon.
Nagpost man sang video ang ex-boyfriend sini nga nagahingyo sa publiko nga untaton ang pag-bash kay Lars bangud basi kun may yara man ini sang problema.
“Huwag niyo nang i-bash si Lars kasi naaawa ako eh.
Alam niyo ‘yon na, mayroon siguro siya talagang dinadalang problema na hindi ko alam.
Huwag na natin siyang i-bash,” pahayag sang anay nobyo sa isa ka 10-minute clip.
“Guys, mas maganda kung suportahan na lang natin siya kung ano man desisyon niya sa buhay ngayon kasi ganoon na lang din gagawin ko.”
Nahibaluan nga bantog si Pacheco nga may 1.9 million followers sa Facebook kag nagtiglawas pa sa Pilipinas sa 2023 Miss International Queen pageant kun sa diin sulod siya sa Top 6.#
Kris Aquino, isinugod sa ospital dahil sa nakakabahalang resulta ng blood test
Isinugod sa ospital ang Queen of All Media Kris Aquino upang sumailalim sa ilang pagsusuri matapos lumabas ang “alarming” na resulta ng kanyang blood panel.
Sa isang post sa Instagram noong Agosto 19, ibinahagi ni Kris na siya ay nasa ospital kasama ang anak na si Bimby para tumanggap ng kanyang ikalawang dose ng gamot.
Ayon kay Aquino, ang kanyang doctor ang nakakita ng kakaibang resulta ng kanyang blood test at agad siyang pinayuhan na sumailalim sa ultrasound at iba pang pagsusuri.
Ipinaliwanag ng tatlong espesyalista na hindi dapat ipagpaliban ang mga ito dahil maaaring malagay sa panganib ang kanyang kalagayan.
Matatandaan na si Kris ay may 11 autoimmune diseases at kasalukuyang umiinom ng matatapang na gamot tulad ng immunosuppressants, antihistamines, at iba pang vitamins.
Mas pinili niyang magpagamot sa mga Pilipinong doktor kaysa gumamit ng gamot na hindi siya sigurado, lalo na’t allergic siya sa blood thinners.
Humiling siya ng dasal mula sa publiko para sa kanyang patuloy na paggaling at pasasalamat sa kabutihang loob ng mga sumusuporta sa kanya.
Sa ngayon ay naninirahan siya sa compound ng kanyang pamilya sa Tarlac bilang bahagi ng kanyang anim na buwang preventive isolation.
BINI, nag-file na sang reklamo batok sa wala ginhingadlan nga persona
Pormal na nga nag-file sang reklamo ang walo ka myembro sang OPM girl group nga BINI batok sa isa ka wala ginhingadlan nga persona sa Office of the City Prosecutor sa Hall of Justice sa Sta.
Ginkumpirmar sang ila abogado nga si Atty.
Joji Alonso, nga ang respondent ang nagkomiter sang “unjust vexation” sa idalom sang Article 287 may kaangtanan sa Section 4 (b) sang RA 10175 ukon ang Cybercrime prevention act of 2012.
Ang reklamo ang nag-ugat sa gin-edit nga video nga kun sa diin makit-an ang mga myembro sang BINI nga nagatilaw kag naga-rate sang Filipino street food.
Ang original version sang video ang may kalawigon nga 20 tubtob 25 minutes, apang ang gin-edit kag gin-upload nga bersyon ang nagalawig lamang sang duha ka minutos.
Ginpahayag pa sang abogado nga dako ang epekto sang video sa mental kag emotional nga kahimtangan sang mga myembro sang BINI, bangud sini napilitan sila nga magsaka sa legal nga lihok agud maprotektahan ang ila kaugalingon batok sa cyber harassment kag paglapas sa ila reputasyon.
Ginsapubliko ang written explanation kag ang resignation letter nga ginpasa sang former actress nga si Nadia Montenegro sa Chief of Staff ni Sen.
Sa iya sulat, ginpahayag sini nga matapos nabutang ang iya pangalan sa incident report sang ginaalegar paggamit sang marijuana sa Senate building sa Pasay City, nabutang siya sa “publicity trial” kag gin-ulan siya sang mga pagpakamalaot lakip na ang pagtawag sa iya nga adik.
Dugang sini, indi siya guilty, apang nag-resign siya bangud demonstrasyon ini sang iya nga pagtahod kay Padilla kag sa Senado.
Antes ang resignation, matandaan nga ginpa-leave anay ni Padilla si Montenegro samtang padayon ang internal investigation.
Nahibaluan nga base sa incident report nga napetsahan sang Agusto 13, ginplastar sang security personnel nga si Victor Patelo nga may duha ka insidente nga may napanimahuan nga indi kinaandan sa isa ka area sa Senate building.
Una amo ang sa ikaduha nga semana sang Hulyo 2025 kun sa diin may nag-report nga isa ka male staff member nga maisog nga baho, apang wala man sang nakit-an nga nagpanigarilyo.
Ikaduha amo ang Agusto 12 kun sa diin nagpalapit ang staff ni Senator Panfilo Lacson sa amo gihapon nga security personnel sa 5th floor, kag nagpanugid nga may indi kinaandan nga baho nga halin sa comfort room sang mga babaye malapit sa extension offices sang mga senador.
Ginpahayag nga daw marijuana ang baho kag ang tawo lamang sa area sa amo nga tion amo si Nadia.
Suno sa security personnel, ginmunuhan sini si Nadia sang naglabay ini sa iya pwesto, apang nagpanginwala ang former actress nga nagpanigarilyo ini ukon naggamit sang marijuana.
Gin-ako sini nga may dala siya nga vape sa iya bag nga amo ang posible ang ginhalinan sang baho.
May ginpasa naman nga investigation report sa Office of the Senate President (OSP) kasunod sang amo nga insidente.#
Liza Soberano, ginpakigbahin ang Traumatic experience kag mga pagpang-abuso nga naagyan sang bata pa ini
Ginpakigbahin sang aktres nga si Liza Soberano ang isa ka personal kag masakit nga estorya sang iya nga kabuhi paagi sa pagsaysay sang kabuhi sini humalin sang siya ang bata pa kun sa diin ginmarkahan sang instability, pagpang-abuso kag pagpanghangkat kasunod sang pagdako nga indi kumpleto ang pamilya.
Sa latest podcast, ginpahayag ni Liza nga siya ang ginbun-ag sang mga lamharon nga ginikanan nga sanday Jacqueline kag John kun sa diin ang mga ini ang may pila ka trabaho agud makakita sang ila nga kinawala.
Ginpakigbahin man sini nga ang ila nga iloy ang nagpakigbato sa crystal meth ukon illegal drugs addiction samtang ang amay sini ang nagapangatubang sang kaso matapos mangin imbulbado sa illegal drugs manufacturing, illegal firearms, kag paglapas sa restraining order antes pa man gin-deport sa Pilipinas.
Si Liza ang nabilin sa Estados Unidos kaupod ang iya nga iloy kag ang iya nga manghod, kag indi nangin maayo ang pagpadako sa ila.
Isa sa mga traumatic memories sini ang may kaangtanan sa nobyo sang iya iloy nga si Michael sang siya ang duha pa lamang ka tuig.
Suno kay Liza, matapos nga nagbulagay ang iya ginikanan, nag-umpisa sa pagdate ang iloy sini sa nasambit nga lalaki.
Suno diri ang lalaki ang indi gid maayo, kun sa diin ini ang may tion nga nagpangawat sang minivan sa kalsada kag gindala sila nga mag-iloy sang isa ka tuig pa lamang ang iya nga manghod.
Nagtinir sila sa van sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw, kag sila ang ginreport na sang pamilya sang iya iloy nga missing.
Ginbalikan man ni Liza nga nagtesting pa ini sa pagpalagyo apang siya ang nadakpan ni Michael kag sa baylo nga apinan, ginsinggitan pa ini sang iloy upod sa nobyo.
Gin-alegar ni Liza nga kun wala ang ila iloy sila ang ginasakit ni Michael.
Naaresto si Michael kag ang iloy ni Liza, gani sila nga mag-utod ang nabilin nga wala sang ginikanan.
Pila man ka foster home ang ginkadtuan sang mga ini antes nagtinir sa balay ni Melissa, ang classmate sang ila iloy sang high school.
Una makabig man nga safe place ang bag-o nga balay, apang sa ulihi nangin abusado na ang mga ini kag sila ang ginasulod sa isa ka kwarto nga daw priso, ginapakahuy-an sa tion sang family gatherings kag gintratar nga daw kaangay nga mga sapat.
BINI, nag-file sang formal complaint batok sa wala pa ginhingadlan nga indibidwal
Nagpasaka sang formal complaint ang P-pop girl group nga BINI sa wala pa ginhingadlan nga indibidwal.
Base ini sa screenshot nga gin-share sa social media sang ila legal counsel nga Atty.
Joji Alonso, Agusto 14, kun sa diin makit-an ang kabahin sang legal document nga may pangalan sang mga myembro sang BINI sa isa ka unspecified case.
Ang ginlista nga pangalan sang complainants amo sanday Gwenth Apulli, Mariah Queen Arceta, Sheena Mae Catacutan, Mikhaela Janna Lim, Mary Loi Yves Ricalde, Jhoanna Christine Robles, Stacey Aubrey Sevilleja kag Ma.
Apisar wala ginpakita sa picture ang pangalan sang respondent, madasig ang espekulasyon sang netizens nga posible nga ang internet personality nga si Christian “Xian” Gaza ang ginreklamo.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, may gin-post ang self-proclaimed “Pambansang Marites na Lalaki” nga naga-target sa isa ka myembro sang BINI.
“Mga Gen Z, okay lang makipag-kant tan as long as gumagamit kayo palagi ng condom upang hindi makabuo.
Lalong-lalo na doon sa isang member ng BINI na sobrang palaiy t,” post sini sa social media.
Sang 2018, na-convict siya sa 11 counts sang paglapas sa Bouncing Check Law nga naangot sa ₱2.6 million investment scheme.
Bantog naman ang P-pop girl group sa mga hits nga “Pantropiko,” “Karera,” “Lagi,” “Huwag Muna Tayong Umuwi,” “Cherry on Top” and “Blink Twice,” kag iban pa.#
Liza Soberano, ginkumpirma nga bulagay na sila ni Enrique Gil sang halos tatlo na ka tuig
Sa labing-una nga tion, ginkumpirma na ni Liza Soberano sa publiko nga bulagay na gid man sila sang aktor nga si Enrique Gil.
Halos tatlo ka tuig na sila nga nagseparar sang banas suno kay Liza, apang wala ini napahibalo sa fans bangud suno sa iya, amo ini request sang actor.
Naistoryahan ini kadungan sang “Can I Come In?” podcast subong nga Huwebes, Agusto 14, sang kaupod sang Filipino-American actress ang filmmaker nga si Sarah Bahbah.
Gin-ako sini nga ang indi pagsapubliko sang ila break-up ang posible nga naangot man sa “people pleaser” nga parte sang iya kaugalingon.
Ginsaysay man niya nga “beautiful breakup” ang natabo kag mabudlay man para sa iya bangud palangga niya si Quen nga iya gintawag nga “childhood best friend.”
Magluwas nga nangin onscreen partner sini si Enrique, gintawag man niya ini nga “lifelong best friend” kag iya man nga “first love.”
Wala pa sang sabat si Enrique sa sini nga rebelasyon sang iya former girlfriend.
Matandaan nga 2023 pa sang nagaguwa ang reports nga bulagay na sila nga duha, apang wala sang kumpirmasyon halin sa duha ka magtimbang nga kampo.
2019 sang ginkumpirma nila nga nangin magkarelasyon sila halin pa sang Oktubre 2014.
Sa iya Instagram post sang Lunes, August 11, ginpakigbahin ni Georgina ang picture sang iya singsing nga nakasuksok na sa iya nga tudlo kag may caption nga, “Yes I do.
Ang duha ang nakitaay sang 2016 sa Gucci store sa capital sang Spain.
Si Georgina ang iloy sang apat ka mga kabataan ni Cristiano nga sanday Alana Martina, Cristiano Jr, Eva kag Matthew.
Si Cristiano ang ‘most followed person’ sa Instagram nga may yara na sang 662 million followers.
Proud nga ginpakigbahin ni Marjorie Barretto nga nag-gradwar na ini sa kolehiyo sa edad nga 51-anyos.
Ginpakigbahin sini nga ang pinakamatam-is nga parte sang iya kadalag-an amo nga nasaksihan ini sang iya mga anak.
Nagpasalamat ini sa iya mga pinalangga sa kabuhi nga naghatag sa iya sang inspirasyon: “To my loved ones who inspired me, pushed me, and talked me out of my panic and anxieties — thank you from the bottom of my heart.”
Naghatag man ini sang mensahe sa iban nga indi pagpangampuan ang mga handum.
Doble-selebrasyon man ini para sa iya anak nga si Leon bangud maga-graduate man siya sa University of Asia and the Pacific subong nga Agusto.
Nahibaluan nga isa ka former actress kag politician si Marjorie kag iloy sang lima ka kabataan nga sanday Dani, Julia, Claudia, Leon, kag Erich.
Nagpadalagan siya bilang 1st district representative sang Caloocan City sang midterm elections apang napaslawan nga makakuha sang pwesto.#
Ginpaguwa na sang prestihiyoso nga Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences (FAMAS) ang lista sang nominees para sa 2025 edition.
Ini na ang ika-73 nga tuig sang paghatag sang pagkilala sang FAMAS, kag natalana ang seremonya sa sa Manila Hotel sa Agusto 22.
Padayon nga ginakilala ang pag-arte nanday Vice Ganda, Kathryn Bernardo, kag Marian Rivera matapos sila mangin nominado sa Best Actor/Actress category sa ika-73 nga Filipino Academy of Movie Arts and Sciences (FAMAS) Awards.
Gin-nominate si Vice Ganda para sa pelikula nga “And the Breadwinner Is…”, si Kathryn Bernardo para sa “Hello, Love, Again”, kag si Marian Rivera para sa “Balota.”
Lakip man sa mga nominado sanday Ice Seguerra, Gladys Reyes, Judy Ann Santos, Matet de Leon, Ian Veneracion, kag Niño Muhlach bilang mga FAMAS Child Icon of Philippine Cinema.
Pagahiwaton ang awards night sa Agosto 22 sa Fiesta Pavilion sang Manila Hotel.
Nominado man para sa Best Picture ang masunod nga mga pelikula:
Samtang sa Best Director category, nominado sanday:
Ang FAMAS Awards isa sa mga pinakauna kag pinaka-prestihiyoso nga award-giving bodies sa industriya sang pelikula sa Pilipinas, nga nagahatag pagkilala sa talento kag kontribusyon sang mga artista, direktor, kag writer sa sining industriya.
Mommy Dionisia, handa na nga ikasal sa iya nobyo
Handa na nga mag-atubang sa altar agud magpasakal si Mommy Dionisia, ang iloy ni “Pambansang Kamao” Manny Pacquiao.
Sa isa ka vlog, ginsiling ni Mommy D nga sa pihak sang iya edad, handa siya magpakasal sa nobyo nga si Michael Yamson bangud nangako ang nobyo sa iya nga kamatayon lang ang makapaseparar sa ila nga duha.
Nahibaluan nga lapaw na sa isa ka dekada nga nagaupdanay kanday Mommy D kag Michael.
Pambato sang Bacoor City, ginkoronahan bilang Miss Philippines Earth 2025
Ginkoronahan bilang Miss Philippines Earth 2025 ang pambato sang Bacoor City nga si Joy Barcoma.
Nagpanginbabaw si Barcoma sa 37 tanan ka mga kandidata nga nagpa-indis-indis para sa korona sa ginpatigayon nga pageant night sa Okada Manila ka gab-i, Agusto 10.
Siya ang magadala sang Pilipinas sa international stage sang Miss Earth.
Yari pamatian naton ang sabat ni Barcoma sa interview.
Ginkoronahan man bilang Miss Philippines Eco-tourism si Kriezl Jane Torres sang Talakag, Bukidnon.
Miss Philippines – Fire naman ang pambato sang Filipino Community of Tallahassee, Florida nga si Jaymie Strickland.
Nakuha man sang pambato sang La Paz, Leyte nga si Angel Rose Campo Tambal ang Miss Philippines – Water.
Ginbuyagyag sang kilala nga aktres kag direktor nga si Gina Alajar nga nakagamit siya sang ilegal nga droga sang siya ang bata-on pa, kag gin-ako man nga naadik siya sini bangud sang madugay ang iya filming hours.
Ginpahayag ini ni Alajar sa isa ka interview upod kay Luchi Cruz-Valdes sa YouTube channel.
Suno kay Alajar, nagsugod ang tanan sang ginpamangkot siya ni Cruz-Valdes kun nakaagi man siya sang ginatawag nga “child actor syndrome”, isa ka kondisyon nga ginalakipan sang mga problema kag kabudlayan sa personal nga kabuhi sang mga nagsugod sang showbiz sang ini bata pa lang.
Ginklaro man ni Alajar nga isa ka tawo ang nag-engganyo sa iya sang droga.
Una, marijuana lang ang iya na-eksperyensyahan, apang sang nagdugay na, nagsugod siya nga nangin interesado sa iban pa nga klase sang droga.
Gin-ako man sang aktres nga ini nga bisyo ang isa sa mga rason sang pagkaguba sang iya kasal sa anay bana nga si Michael de Mesa.
May tatlo sila ka kabataan nga amo sanday Ryan, Geoff, kag AJ Eigenmann nga aktor man subong.
DJ Koo, regular nga ginabisita ang nagtaliwan nga asawa sini nga si Barbie Hsu sa iya pantyon
Makaligad ang halos anom ka bulan humalin sang nagtaliwan ang Taiwanese actress nga si Barbie Hsu sa edad nga 48 bangud sa influenza-related pneumonia samtang nagbakasyon sa Japan, padayon sagihapon ang kalisod sang iya asawa nga si DJ Koo (Koo Jun-yup).
Suno sa mga report, regular nga ginabisita ni DJ Koo ang pantyon ni Barbie sa Chin Pao San Cemetery sa New Taipei, Taiwan, apisar nga naga-ulan ukon grabe ang init.
Isa ka netizen ang nagkumpirma sang report sang Hulyo 27, matapos gindul-ong ang isa ka tagasuporta ni Hsu nga luyag maghatag sang bulak.
Sa ila pag-abot, nakita nila si DJ Koo nga nagapungko sang malinong sa isa k foldable chair, naka-itom nga tank top kag naka-kalo, kag ginaantos ang tuman ka init samtang nagabantay sa pantyon sang iya nagtaliwan nga asawa.
Matandaan nga una nga nagkilalahay sanday barbie kag DJ Koo sang 1998 kag nangin mag-partner.
Nagpakasal sila sang tuig 2022 matapos ang 23 ka tuig nga pagnobyahanay.
Pinay actress Dolly de Leon, makabahin sa bag-o nga Hollywood series
Mangin kabahin ang Pinay actress nga si Dolly de Leon sa bag-o nga Hollywood series.
Ang role ni Dolly amo ang character ni Detective Sofia Gonzalez sa nasambit nga series.
Una na nga nangin parte ang Pinay actress sang iya una nga Hollywood series nga Nine Perfect Strangers kaupod si Nicole Kidman.
Ginmando sang Quezon City Regional Trial Court Branch 93 ang pag-aresto kilala nga showbiz columnist Cristy Fermin kag co-hosts sini nga sanday Rommel Villamor kag Wendell Alvarez.
Ini may kaangtanan sa kaso nga cyberlibel nga gin-file sang aktres nga si Bea Alonzo sang nagligad nga tuig.
Sa court order nga napetsahan sang Hulyo 21, 2025, ginsiling ni Presiding Judge Cherry Chiara Hernando nga may yara sila sang nakita nga “probable cause” agud ipaidalom sa trial ang mga akusado.
Nagtalana man ang korte sang P48,000 nga pyansa sa tagsa ka TV hosts.
Madumdoman nga nagpasaka si Bea sang libel case batok kay Fermin sang Mayo 2024 bangud sa ginaalegar nga wala sang kamatuoran kag malisyoso nga mga impormasyon nga ginawaragwag sang host sa iya nga online show angot sa ila pagbulagay sang ex-fiancé sini nga si Dominic Roque.
Dugang sini, gin-akusar man Bea si Fermin angot sa alegasyon nga wala ini gabayad sang buwis ini base sa ginpasaka nga kaso sang iya driver.
Komedyante nga si Bayani Casimiro, Jr., nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 57 ang anay komedyante nga si Bayani Casimiro Jr., nga mas kilala bilang si Prinsipe K (Kahilingan) sa sitcom nga “Okay Ka, Fairy Ko!”
Suno sa iya utod nga si Marilou Casimiro, napatay ang aktor sang Hulyo 25, 2025 bangud sang cardiac arrest.
Si Bayani amo ang anak sang beterano man nga actor-dancer nga si Bayani Casimiro Sr.
nga ginbansagan nga “Fred Astaire of the Philippines”.
Magluwas sa “Okay Ka, Fairy Ko!” kaupod sanday Vic Sotto, Tweetie de Leon, Ruby Rodriguez, kag Alice Dixson, kag iban pa, nagbida man ang bata nga Bayani sa Okay Ka, Fairy Ko!
Pagkatapos sina, nag-upod ini sa madamo pa nga mga pelikula nga ginapangunahan ni Sotto kag nangin regular nga parte sang Enteng Kabisote franchise.
Nagpakita siya sa Enteng Kabisote: Okay Ka, Fairy Ko… The Legend (2004), Enteng Kabisote 2: Okay Ka Fairy Ko… The Legend Continues (2005), Enteng Kabisote 3: Okay Ka, Fairy Ko: The Legend Goes On and On and On (2006), kag Si Agimat at si Enteng Kabisote (2010).
Isa sa mga ginbidahan niya amo ang pelikula nga M.O.N.A.Y., nga ginsulat, gin-direct, kag ginbidahan ni Jun Urbano.
Peter’s Memorial Chapel sa Sucat, Parañaque City, kag nakaschedule ang cremation kag lubong sa Loyola Memorial Park sa Parañaque City buwas, Hulyo 30.#
Heaven Paralejo kag Marco Gallo, bulagay na
Ginkumpirma sang actress nga si Heaven Paralejo nga bulagay na sila sang actor nga si Marco Gallo.
Sa isa ka interview, ginsiling ni Heaven nga mutual ang desisyon sang ila pagbulaganay.
It was a mutual decision to move forward individually,” pahayag ng aktres, apang ginsiling sini nga mag-abyan sagihapon sila ni Marco.
Suno kay Heaven, nangin mapag-on ang pundasyon sang ila relasyon bangud nag-umpisa sila bilang mag-abyan.
Pagkatapos sang ila pagbulaganay, ginsiling man ni Heaven nga malipayon siya subong kag naka-focus ini sa iya bag-o nga proyekto nga I Love You Since 1892, kun sa diin pagabidahan sini ang mga karakter nanday Carmela kag Carmelita.
Matandaan nga si Heaven kag Marco ang una nga nagkilalahay sa Pinoy Big Brother: Lucky 7 sa 2016.
Sang Nobyembre 2024, nagguwa na ang huring-huring nga may yara sila sang relasyon matapos nga nagbayluhanay sila sang “I love you” sa social media.
Sa subong, si Heaven ang nagalaom sa suporta sang iya pamilya kag mga malapit nga mga abyan para sa iya personal nga pag-move on
BINI, naghakot sang mga nominasyon sa Jupiter Music Awards 2025
Nagdala sang bugal sa Pilipinas ang girl group nga Bini kasunod sang multiple nominations sini sa 2025 Jupiter Music Awards.
Na-nominate ang BINI sa lima ka kategorya lakip na ang Female Group of the Year kag Album of the Year para sa BINIverse.
Magluwas diri, may triple nods ang grupo sa ila nga hit track nga “Cherry On Top (BINIMo Remix feat.
Mahimo makabulig ang Blooms sa pagdaog sang BINI paagi sa pagboto sa preliminary round halin sa July 18 to Aug.
Pokwang, nag-aalala sa mga tindero sa kalsada sa gitna ng mga pagbaha at bagyo
Nagpahayag ng malasakit ang aktres at komedyanteng si pokwang para sa mga tindero sa kalsada na patuloy na nagtitinda sa kabila ng malalakas na ulan at matinding pagbaha dulot ng pinalakas na habagat.
Sa kanyang Instagram post noong Martes, ikinuwento ni Pokwang na pinakiusapan niya ang kanilang kasambahay na huwag nang tumawad sa presyo ng mga paninda sa palengke upang kahit papaano’y kumita ang mga tindero.
Sa kanyang Instagram post noong Martes, ikinuwento ni Pokwang na pinakiusapan niya ang kanilang kasambahay na huwan nang tumawad sa presyo ng mga paninda sa palengke upang kahit papaano’y kumita aniya ang mga tindero.
Mag-ingat po tayong lahat,” ani Pokwang.
Magugunitang muling lumubog sa baha ang Metro Manila dahil sa walang tigil na ulan na dala ng habagat na pinalala ng bagyong Crising (Wipha), dalawang low-pressure area, at tropical storm Dante.
Ayon sa Metropolitan Manila Development Authority, isa sa mga dahilan ng pagbaha ay ang maling pagtatapon ng basura.
Samantala, iniulat ng Department of Public Works and Highways na 70% ng drainage system sa Metro Manila ay barado na kaya hindi na nito kayang kontrolin ang pagdaloy ng baha.
US tv star Ellen DeGeneres, nagsaylo sa England bangud kay US Pres.
Nagtuad na sa labing nga tion ang US tv star nga si Ellen DeGeneres umpisa nga nagsaylo ini sa United Kingdom.
Sa iya Social media account, ginsiling sini nga isa sa mga rason kun nagsaylo siya sa England bangud kay US President Donald Trump.
Nahibaluan nga sang-una plang indi na ini komportable sa mga programa ni Trump.
Plano man niya nga magpakasal liwat sa iya partner nga si Portia de Rossi sa England.
Ginpanginwala man sini nga isa lang ka gimmick ang pagtapos sang iya TV show sang 2022.
Si Ellen ang isa sa mga pinakakilala nga pangalan sa US TV sa sulod sang 30 ka tuig kun sa diin nagsikat man ini bilang host sa pila man ka popular nga awarding ceremony kaangay sang Oscars, Grammys kag Emmys.
Gamayan lang madisgrasya ang kilala nga pop star nga si Katy Perry sa tunga-tunga sang iya performance sa Lifetimes concert sa San Francisco.
Suno sa video nga nakuha sang isa ka fan, makita nga ginakanta ni Katy ang iya kilala nga hit song nga “Roar” samtang sakay siya sa butterfly-shaped nga prop.
Sa Hinali lang, nag-malfunction ang amo nga props, nga nagresulta sa halos nadulaan siya sang balanse.
Maswerte lang nga nakauyat si Katy sa higot sang iya ng props rason nga nga wala ini gilayon nahulog.
Sa pihak sang insidente, nagpadayon gihapon ang performer sa iya show, nga ginpakita ang iya professionalism kag determinasyon nga matapos ang performance.
Magluwas sa kanta sini nga “Roar,” kilala man si Katy Perry sa iban pa niya nga mga kanta kaangay sang “Last Friday Night,” “Firework,” kag madamo pa nga mga international hits.
Soap opera actress Eileen Fulton, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 91
Nagtaliwan na ang actress nga si Eileen Fulton sa edad nga 91.
Suno sa iya mga himata, ginbawian ini sang sa kabuhi sa iya balay sa Asheville, North Carolina.
Nakilala ang actress bilang Lisa Grimaldi sa sikat nga soap opera sa US nga “As the World Turns”.
Naglab-ot sa lima ka dekada ang soap opera antes natapos sang 2010.
Nahibaluan nga nag-eskwela si Eileen sang drama kag music sa Greensboro College kag nagsaylo sa New York City sang 1956.
Una nga nakita bilang bida si Eileen sa pelikula nga “Girl of the Night” nga ginpagguwa sang 1960.
CEO, gin-delete ang iya LinkedIn page matapos makit-an siya nga may kaupod nga babaye sa concert
Gin-delete sang tech executive ang iya LinkedIn page matapos makit-an siya nga may kaupod nga babaye nga indi man niya asawa sa concert sang Coldplay sa Boston.
Suno sa mga netizens kag mga report, nakilala ang lalaki nga si Andy Byron, chief executive sang software firm nga Astronomer samtang ang babaye naman amo si Kristin Cabot, ang human resources head sang kompaniya.
Sa video nga nagalapta subong online, makit-an nga nagahaksanay ang duha sa Foxboro’s Gillete Stadium .
Sang na-realize sang duha nga nakita sila sa big screen, gilayon nga nagpanago ang lalaki samtang nagtalikod naman sa camera ang babaye.
Sa subong, wala pa nakapaguwa sang statement sanday Byron kag Cabot nahanungod sa insidente.
Sofronio Vasquez, magakanta sang national anthem sa 4th SONA ni Marcos
Napilian si Sofronio Vasquez nga amo ang magakanta sang Philippine national anthem sa ikaapat nga State of the Nation Address (SONA) ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
Suno sa Presidential Communications Office (PCO), ang mangin partisipasyon ni Sofronio sa sini nga event ang isa man ka “tribute” sa Filipino talent kag national pride.
Matandaan nga naghimo sang maragtas si Sofronio bilang una nga Asian kag una nga Filipino nga nagkampyon sa “The Voice USA.”
Nangin kabahin siya sang Team Michael Bublé nga nagpabilib sa judges kag tumalan-aw sa iya performances sa finale nga amo ang “Unstoppable” ni Sia kag “A Million Dreams” halin sa “The Greatest Showman.”
Sang Enero, nagbalik siya diri sa Pilipinas, nagpatigayon sang una nga solo concert sa Cebu, kag ginkilala man sang Senado bangud sang iya kadalag-an sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.#
‘Pretty Little Baby’ singer nga si Connie Francis, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 87-anyos ang iconic American pop singer nga si Connie Francis nga kilala sa hits kaangay sang “Who’s Sorry Now?” kag “Pretty Little Baby.”
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya suod nga abyan kag record label president nga si Ron Roberts.
Antes ang iya kamatayon, na-ospital pa si Connie bangud sa ginbatyag nga “extreme pain.”
Sang 1957, gin-record sini ang “Who’s Sorry Now?” nga nangin breakout hit matapos nga gin-ere sa “American Bandstand” sang 1958.
Halin sa amo nga tuig, nangin isa siya sa best-selling female vocalists sang late 1950s kag early ’60s nga may mga kanta nga chart-toppers kaangay sang “Everybody’s Somebody’s Fool” nga amo ang una nga No.
Nangin viral hit man ang “Pretty Little Baby” masobra anum ka dekada matapos nga nakit-an kag nabatian ini liwat sa TikTok videos subong nga henerasyon.
Magluwas sa musika, nakit-an man si Connie sa mga pelikula kaangay sang “Where the Boys Are” (1960).
Duha ka memoirs ang iya nabalhag nga amo ang “Who’s Sorry Now?” (1984) kag ang “Among My Souvenirs” (2017).
Mayor Isko, gin-hire si Mocha bilang reporter
Gin-anunsiyo ni Manila City Mayor Isko Moreno ang pag-designate niya sa TV kag social media personality nga si Mocha Uson bilang manugdul-ong sang balita sa ila syudad.
Suno kay Isko, makaupod niya si Mocha sa “Yorme’s Hour” kada Biyernes agud magdul-ong sang latest nga nagakatabo kag balita tuhoy sa Manila City.
Pahayag ni Isko, ini isa ka programa ng Manila City sa idalom sang Manila Public Information Office (MPIO), santo sa ginpirmahan niya nga Executive Order No.
Matandaan nga nagpadalagan nga councilor sa District 3 sang Manila si Mocha sa idalom sang “Yorme’s Choice” apang napierde.
IV of Spades, nagpaguwa sang bag-o nga kanta matapos ang five-year hiatus
Ginsorpresa sang modern Pinoy pop-alt rock heroes nga IV of Spades ang ila fans paagi sa pagpaguwa sang bag-o nga ambahanon matapos ang lima ka tuig nga pagpahuway.
Magluwas sa new song, tuman ang kalipay sang mga taga-suporta nga apat gid sa original members sang banda ang yara sa kanta nga amo sanday Unique Salonga, Zild Benitez, Blaster Silonga, kag Badjao de Castro.
May yara man sang music video nga gin-release kadungan sini.
Matandaan nga sang Agusto 2020 sang gin-anunsyo ang indefinite hiatus sang banda kun sa diin ginsiling sang mga myembro nga padayunon nila ang ila iban nga personal interests apang kinahanglan anay magpahuway bilang grupo.
Natabo ang hiatus duha ka tuig matapos nagbiya sa band ang lead vocalist nga si Unique para sa solo career.
Antes ang pagpahuway sang banda, may yara sila sang CLAPCLAPCLAP!
album sang 2019 kun sa diin isa sa nangin pinaka-popular amo ang “Come Inside of My Heart”.
Natukod ang IV of Spades sang 2014 kag kilala sa hits nga “Mundo”, Dulo ng Hangganan, Captivated, I Ain’t Perfect kag iban pa.
‘Simula pa lang ito ng mas malalaking pangarap’ —Awra Briguela sa iya pagtapos sa SHS
Sa iya post, puno sang pagpasalamat ang 21-anyos nga aktres sa iya nangin mga inspirasyon nga lab-uton ang iya handum apisar sang mga pagpanghangkat.
“Simula pa lang ito ng mas malalaking pangarap,” suno kay Awra.
“Gusto ko lang magpasalamat sa lahat ng taong naniwala at nagtiwala sa akin, lalo na sa sarili kong minsang inakala na hindi ko kaya.”
Ginpakigbahin sini nga indi man mahapos ang pagbalik sa eskwelahan ilabi na bangud halos lima ka tuig siya nga nag-untat halin sang pandemya, kag duha ka bulan na nga nag-umpisa ang klase antes siya nagsulod sa klase.
“Akala ko rin mahihirapan akong makisana sa mga kaklase at guro ko kasi siyempre, ilang buwan na silang magkakasama, samantalang ako ay kakapasok lang.
Noong una, may hiyaan pa, pero hindi rin nagtagal, unti-unti akong naging kumportable sa kanila,” pahayag sini.
Dugang niya: “At ngayon, ang mga taong ‘yon, maituturing ko nang tunay na mga kaibigan na kasama kong nagsumikap, lumaban, at ngayon, kasama ko ring magtatapos.
Gusto ko pang magpasalamat kina Principal Venturina at Assistant Principal Almeyda, dahil hindi nila ako pinabayaan at binigyan nila ako ng pagkakataong makahabol.
Isa sila sa mga unang naniwala na kaya ko.”
Nakahibalo man si Awra nga madamo pa siya sang atubangon nga mga pagpanghangkat sa kolehiyo, apang pahayag sini, madasig lang ang tyempo kag updan niya ini sang kapisan kag pagpati sa kaugalingon.
Matandaan nga nag-umpisa si Awra bilang child star sa teleserye nga Probinsyano.
Sang 2023, nalakip siya sa kinagamo sa Makati City tubtub nga gindakop sang mga pulis kag gin-release lang matapos makapiyansa.#
South Korean actress Kang Seo Ha, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 31
Nagtaliwan na ang South Korean actress nga si Kang Seo Ha sa edad nga 31, ini suno sa report sang Korean entertainment site nga Soompi sini nga adlaw.
Ginkumpirma sa report nga ang raso sang iya pagtaliwan amo ang madugay na ini nagasuprer sang cancer.
Sa isa ka emosyonal nga Instagram post, ginpakigbahin sang isa sa mga himata sang actress ang video compilation sang mga litrato ni Seo Ha, lakip ang isa ka letter bilang paghanumdom sang iya mga memories.
Suno sa Soompi, nahamtang ang memorial altar ni Kang Seo Ha sa Seoul St.
Mary’s Hospital, samtang naka-scgedule naman ang iya lubong sa Hulyo 16 sa oras nga 7:40 sa aga sa Haman, Gyeongnam Province.
Si Kang Seo Ha ang nakilala sa mgasikat nga palugwaon kapareho sang Schoolgirl Detectives, Assembly, First Love Again, Through the Waves, The Flower in Prison, kag Heart Surgeons.
Nahibaluan nga bag-o siya ginbawian sang kabuhi, natapos pa niya ang pelikula nga “Mangnaein,” nga sa subong ginkabig bilang iya pinakaulihi nga proyekto sa industriya.
BB Gandanghari, nagtapos bilang summa cum laude sa iya second degree
Gin-ulan sang pagpanginbulahan ang Filipina celebrity nga si BB Gandanghari matapos ini nag-gradwar bilang summa cum laude sa degree nga Bachelor of Science in Entertainment Business.
Si BB ang nagpakigbahin sang maayo nga balita paagi sa Instagram post kun sa diin gin-upload sini ang video sa iya graduation ceremony.
May ginbutang man ini nga malip-ot apang sweet nga mensahe nga naga-reflect sang iya journey bilang isa ka working student.
Pahayag sini, perfect ang iya attendance sa klase kag wala man na-late sa eskwelahan sa bilog sini nga course.
Magluwas sa iya nabaton nga Latin honors, ginkilala man si BB nga Student of the Month kag isa man ka myembro sang Honor Society of Los Angeles.
Una na nga gin-share sang Pinay celebrity nga nag-sulod siya sa film school bangud luyag sini ang nga i-pursue ang karera sa producing and directing.
Antes natapos ini nga degree sa University of California, alumna man si BB sang St.
Louis University sa Baguio nga nakakuha sang Economics degree antes siya nagsulod sa showbiz 40 ka tuig na ang nagligad.#
Resolution, ginduso sa Kamara agud ma-nominate si Dolphy bilang National Artist
Ginduso ang isa ka resolution sa Kamara agud i-nominate sa Order of National Artists ang Comedy King nga si Rodolfo “Dolphy” Quizon, Sr.
Joel Chua ang nag-file sang House Resolution No.
41 kahapon, Hulyo 9, isa ka adlaw antes ang 13th death anniversary sang anay aktor.
Nakasulat sa resolution ang “magnificent body of work” ni Dolphy kag ang iya pagtib-ong sa Filipino values para sa tanan nga henerasyon sang mga Pinoy.
Ang National Artist amo ang pinakamataas nga national recognition nga ginahatag sa mga indibidwal nga may daku nga kontribusyon sa arts and culture sang Pilipinas.
Sa amo nga resolution, ginahingyo ang House committees on Creative Industries kag ang Basic Education & Culture nga magpatigayon sang hearings kag iban pa nga mga tikang agud pormal nga ma-nominate si Dolphy sa National Commission for Culture and the Arts.
2012 sang nagtaliwan si Dolphy bangud sa multiple organ failure.
Popular siya bilang “King of Comedy” nga nakit-an sa tuman ka damo nga iconic shows kaangay sang long-running shows nga “John en Marsha” kag “Home Along da Riles” amo man sa mga pelikula nga “Omeng Satanasia” kag “Markova Comfort Gay.”
Masobra anum ka dekada ang ginlawig sang iya karera sa entertainment industry bilang komedyante, indi lamang sa telebisyon kag sa pelikula kundi mangin sa entablado kag sa radio.#
‘We are not together’: Jameson Blake, ginklaro nga wala sila sang relasyon ni Barbie Forteza
Ginklaro sang actor nga si Jameson Blake nga wala sila sang romantic relationship ni Barbie Forteza.
Nagguwa ang dating rumors matapos nakit-an ang duha sa isa ka fun run sa Pampanga sang Hunyo, kun sa diin sa isa ka picture, magka-holding hands ang mga ini samtang naga-akomodar sang photo requests halin sa fans.
Pahayag ni Jameson, gina-assist lamang sini si Barbie samtang nagapaguwa bangud madamo sang mga tawo, apang wala na ini sang iban pa nga buot-silingon.
The reason why nahuli kami holding hands kasi andaming tao nung nagpa-picture sa kaniya… I was just assisting her palabas.
Gets ko naman people will think different,” suno sa actor paagi sa vlog ni Ogie Diaz.
Pila ka beses na nga nakit-an sanday Barbie kag Jameson nga nag-updanay sa fun run lakip na ang sa “Lights Camera Run” sa Pasay sang Mayo.
Natalana sila nga mag-updanay sa isa ka project nga “Kontrabida Academy” kaupod kanday Eugene Domingo, Michael De Mesa, Ysabel Ortega, Xyriel Manabat kag Carmina Villaroel.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, sa 75th anniversary event sang isa ka network, nakit-an man si Barbie nga ka-istorya ang ex-boyfriend sini nga si Jak Roberto.
Apisar sadto, ginaklaro ni Barbie nga indi na sini gusto nga istoryahan ang breakup bilang respeto na lang sa ila nga relasyon nga naglawig man sang masobra sa pito ka tuig.
Pagbulagay nanday Katy Perry kag Orlando Bloom, ginkumpirma na sang ila representatives
Opisyal na nga ginkumpirma sang representatives nanday Katy Pery kag Orlando Bloom ang ila nga pagbulagay.
Suno sa kampo sang anay magkarelasyon, pila ka bulan na nga nagtutok sa co-parenting set-up ang American singer-songwriter kag Pirates of the Caribbean star.
Nagsugtanay man sila nga mag-updanay kun kinahanglan sang ila bata nga si Daisy Dove Bloom , bangud ang ila prayoridad amo ang pagpadaku sa ila anak nga may pagpalangga kag “mutual respect.”
Nag-umpisa sang 2016 ang relasyon nanday Katy kag Orlando, nagbulagay sang 2017, apang nagbalikanay liwat kag na-engage sang Valentine’s Day sang 2019.
May asawa anay ang 48-anyos nga aktor nga isa ka Australian model kag may isa sila ka anak.
Ang 13-time Grammy Award nominee nga si Katy naman ang nakasal man anay sa komedyante nga si Russel Brand.#
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 78-anyos ang longtime columnist kag talent manager nga si Lolit Solis.
Sa isa ka Facebook, gin-share sang actor nga si Niño Muchlach ang laragway ni Solis nga may caption, “Paalam Nanay Lolit Solis.”
Sunod nga nag-post ang actor kag politician nga si Jolo Revilla nga nagakumpirma man sang balita: “Salamat sa lahat ng pagmamahal at pagsuporta mo sa aming buong pamilya lalo na kay papa.
Salamat sa pagaalaga mo sa akin noong ikaw ay tumayo bilang aking manager noong ako ay artista pa.”
Wala pa sang mga detalye nga ginpaguwa sa rason sang iya kamatayon kag impormasyon sa iya nga lubong.
Sang Abril, ginpakigbahin sini nga nagapaidalom siya sa dialysis treatments sang makaduha ka beses sa kada semana kag apat ka oras sa kada session.
Nag-ako man ini nga naga-eksperyensya siya sang mental lapses kag physical weakness nga nagapabudlay sa iya adlaw-adlaw nga hulag.
Natawo si Lolit sang Mayo 20, 1947 sa Manila.
Nangin household name siya bilang host kag interviewer partikular na sa Startalk nga nag-ere sang 1995 tubtub sang 2015.
Sa sulod sang malawig nga tion, nangin prominente ang papel sini sa Philippine entertainment industry, nangin kilala sa commentary sini, kag nangin suod ang relasyon sa madamo nga mga artista.#
Sunshine Cruz, nanginwala nga ginasakit siya ni Atong Ang
Nagpanginwala si Sunshine Cruz nga ginasakit siya sang bilyonaryo nga negosyante nga iya partner nga si Atong Ang.
Sa iya latest post, ginpakita sang aktres ang screenshots sang mga post nga may “malisyoso” nga mga claim.
Iya ini gintawag nga “fake news” kag halin sa kwestyonable nga mga site.
Lakip sa mga post ang nagasiling nga nagapangayo si Sunshine sang hustisya bangud ginasakit siya sang pisikal ni Atong.
Nagdugang pa si Sunshine nga indi dapat basta-basta nga mag-pati sa mga nakabutang sa internet bisan pa nga may picture kag may quote nga nakahimo-himo sa tupad sini.
Matandaan nga 2024 sang ginkumpirma ni Atong ang relasyon nila sang aktres matapos nga nakit-an sila nga naga-kiss.
Wala sang opisyal nga kumpirmasyon halin kay Sunshine apang pila ka beses sila ng nakit-an nga magkaupod.
Kasado man siya anay kay Cesar Montano, apang gin-annul ang ila kasal sang 2018.
Si Atong naman ang na-link anay kay Gretchen Barretto.
Nabutang subong sa sentro sang kontrobersiya ang amo nga negosyante matapos siya ang ginatudlo sang isa sa mga akusado nga mastermind sa pagkadula sang mga manugbulang sang 2021.
Gintudlo man si Gretchen nga may ihibalo sa amo nga krimen.#
Korean superstar Hyun Bin, magabisita sa Pilipinas sa Agosto 8
Magabisita ang Korean superstar sa Pilipinas nga si Hyun Bin para sa iya labing una nga fan meet sa pungsod sa Agosto 8, 2025.
Si Hyun Bin ang nagsikat sa bilog nga kalibutan bangud sa iya papel sa hit Netflix series nga “Crash Landing on You” kaupod ang iya co-star nga sa subong asawa na niya nga si Son Ye-jin.
Magabisita ang actor sa Pilipinas sa imbitasyon sang isa ka kilala nga hotel resort chain.
Makakuha sang ticket sa fan meet ang mga fans paagi sa isa ka raffle promo halin Hulyo 1 tubtob 31.
Kada P2,000 nga single receipt sa mga dining outlets sang nasambit nga hotel sa Parañaque kag Quezon City, makahatag sang isa ka raffle entry.
Ini ang pinakauna nga pagbisita ni Hyun Bin sa Pilipinas para sa isa ka meet and greet.
Sang una pa, endorser na siya sang isa ka telecommunication company.
Kilala si Hyun Bin bilang isa sa mga pinaka-prominente nga aktor sa Korean Wave.
Nagsikat siya sa mga teleserye pareho sang “My Lovely Sam Soon,” “Secret Garden,” kag “Crash Landing on You,”.
Ginpakaslan niya si Son Ye-jin sang Marso 2022, kag may isa na sila ka anak.
Sa subong, ginahulat sang iya mga fans ang iya pagbalik sa telebisyon sa upcoming nga serye nga “Made in Korea” upod kay Jung Woo-sung.
Ginpromote man niya ang iya action movie nga “Harbin.”
Kiefer Ravena, Diana Mackey, magapakasal liwat sa masunod nga bulan
Ginkumpirma sang mag-asawa nga sanday Kiefer Ravena kag Diana Mackey nga magapakasal sila liwat sa El Nido, Palawan.
Suno pa sa newly-married couple, matabo ini sa Agusto ukon sa masunod na nga bulan.
Ginpahayag sang Ilonggo basketball star nga sa Palawan ang venue bangud didto niya nabatyagan nga si Diana na ang tawo nga para sa iya.
Nagaplano ang duha nga magbalik kag iselebrar kun sa diin sila nag-umpisa, kag sini nga tion, kaupod na nila ang ila nga mga abyan.
Oktubre 2024 sang na-engage ang duha kag nagpakasal sang Hunyo 2025.
Sang Marso, gin-anunsyo man sang couple nga ginapaabot na nila ang ila subang nga bata, apang isa ka semana matapos ang anunsyo, nahulugan si Diana.
Apisar sini, ang pinakamaayo para sa mag-asawa amo nga yara sa mayo nga kondisyon ang ikaayong-lawas sang iya misis.
Ginkabos ang Pilipinas nga makuha ang ginahandum nga ikaduha nga Miss Supranational crown.
Sa koronasyon sa Poland nga nagtakop alas singko sa kaagahon oras sa Pilipinas, nakuha sang Baguio City beauty queen nga si Tarah Valencia ang third runner-up title.
Ginkilala man sang organisasyon ang Continental Ambassadors nga amo ang mga masunod:
Antes sa Top 5, nag-compete ang delegates sa Q&A round, swimsuit round sa Top 24 kag evening gown sa Top 12.
Nahibaluan nga isa ka graduate sang tourism management si Valencia kag nahatag sa iya ang titulo nga Miss Supranational Philippines matapos nagpasakop sa Miss Universe Philippines 2024.
Ang isahanon nga Miss Supranational Queen sang Pilipinas amo si Mutya Datul nga nagdaog sang titulo sadtong 2013.#
Maja Salvador, iya bana kag anak, nagtambong sa misa ni Pope Leo XIV
Malipayon nga ginpakigbahin sang aktres nga si Maja Salvador ang ila pagtambong sa misa ni Pope Leo XIV sang nagbisita sila sa Roma.
Kaupod ni Maja ang iya bana nga si Rambo Nuñez kag anak nga si Maria.
Nag-upod sila sa papal audience sa Vatican kag ginkuha ang amo nga oportunidad agud nga mapadalom pa ang spiritual journey paagi sa pagbisita sa balaan nga mga lugar sa Italya lakip na sa lulubngan ni Padre Pio, St.
Matandaan nga Mayo 31, 2024 sang ginbun-ag ni Maja si Maria sa Canada.
Septyembre sang amo man nga tuig ginpatigayon ang baptismal ceremony.
Duha ka beses naman nga ginkasal ang prominent actress kag ang iya bana: isa sa civil ceremony sang February 2023, kag isa sa destination wedding sa Bali, Indonesia lima ka bulan ang makaligad matapos ang una nga kasal.
Mga estudyante sang USA-COM, naghakot sang bulawan nga medalya sa international vocal arts festival
Naghakot sang bulawan nga medalya ang mga produkto sang University of San Agustin—Conservatory of Music sa Borneo International Vocal Arts Festival (BIVAF) 2025 nga ginpatigayon sa Sarawak, Malaysia.
Ini amo sanday Demmie Nicolette Maza nga tumandok sang Antique kag Adrianne Kylle Cortez sang Compania, Molo, Iloilo City kag pareho nga yara na sa 5th year sa Conservatory of Music.
Kaupod man nila ang ila Academic Supervisor nga si Prof.
Gerardo Vicente Muyuela, DMA (Doctor of Musical Arts) nga amo ang nagtukar sang piano sa ila nga performance.
Sanday Maza kag Cortez ang pareho nga nagdaug sang gold medal sa Classical Open Category Singing Competition para sa ages 19 and above nga category.
Si Maza man ang nakakuha sang title sang Category Winner kag nag- compete sa Absolute Winners Competition, ukon ang Grand Prix.
Gerardo Vicente Muyuela, dako nga dungog ini para sa ila bangud ini ang una nga international competition nga nagpasakop ang University of San Agustin—Conservatory of Music.
Ini pa lang ang second edition sang Borneo International Vocal Arts Festival nga nagahatag sang platform para sa mga bokalista nga maka-perform, maka-compete, kag makatuon gikan sa mga professionals.
Nagpasalamat naman si Muyuela sa tanan nga nagsuporta sa ila agud matiglawas ang Pilipinas kag mapakita ang abilidad sang mga estudyante sang University of San Agustin sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Kris Aquino, ginakahidlawan ang iya kabuhi sang maayo pa ang iya health condition
Gin-ako sang retired television presenter kag actress nga si Kris Aquino nga nahidlaw na ini kun ano man siya sadto sang maayo pa ang iya ikaayong lawas.
Suno sa abyan ni Kris nga si Dindo Balares, sa karun yara sa isa ka private resort si Kris kag nagakaon sang organic food bangod nahidlaw na ini sa mga homemade nga pagkaon.
Suno diri, naghambal si Kris sa iya nga nakita na sa karun sang mga abyan sini ang iya kalbaryo.
Sang ginpamangkot ni Balares ang aktres kun ano ang nagatulod sa iya kun ngaa bisan papaano malipayon ini, sabat ni Kris nga mahapos lang para sa iya magkadlaw bisan sa gamay lang nga butang.
Kag suno pa sa aktres ang tawo nga nalipay sa iya kabuhi ang makabig na nga isa ka winner.
Ginshare man ni Kris nga nahidlaw na gid siya sa iya kaugalingon kun ano man siya sadto kag sa naagyan sini sa karun masakit para sa iya ang iya nagakaeksperyensyahan.
Samtang, suno naman kay Dindo, sang nabatian sini ang ginhambal ni Kris, wala ini nakahibalo kun ano ang iya isabat.
Boobay, nalipong na naman samtang naga-perform
Nalipong na naman ang komedyante nga si Boobay samtang yara sa tunga-tunga sang isa ka event.
Makit-an sa video nga masinadyahon nga naga-perform ang comedian, nagalakat-lakat samtang naga-wave sa audience, apang wala pa natapos ang performance sini sang naghinay ini sa paghulag kag natumba.
Maayo na lang bangud nasalo ini sang isa ka babaye kag wala nagtupa ang iya ulo sa matig-a nga bagay.
Gintatap sang organizers ang komedyante samtang yara sa likod sang stage, apang sang ulihi, nagbalik pa gid ini sa pag-perform kag natapos gid ang event.
Nagpanawagan naman ang fans nga magpahuway na lang anay ang komedyante.
Indi ini ang una nga medical related incident kay Boobay.
Sang Abril 2023, samtang yara sa live interview sa veteran host nga si Boy Abunda, nagsuprer man ini sang absent seizure, samtang sang 2024 nalipong man ini samtang naga-host sa Aparri, Cagayan.
Una na nga ginpakigbahin ni Boobay nga ini nga seizures ang resulta sang ginsuprer sini nga mild stroke sang 2016.
Screen and stage veteran nga si Cocoy Laurel, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 72
Nagtaliwan na ang beterano nga Filipino film and theater actor nga si Victor Laurel ukon mas kilala nga si Cocoy Laurel.
Wala ginsapubliko sang pamilya ang rason sang iya kamatayon apang ginkumpirma nga nagtaliwan ini sang nagligad nga Sabado, Hunyo 14, tatlo ka bulan lang matapos ang iya 72nd birthday.
Si Cocoy ang anak ni anay Vice President Salvador “Doy” Laurel kag theater actress and singer nga si Celia Diaz Laurel.
Tiyo siya sang aktres nga si Denise Laurel, kag utod niya ang popular 80s singer nga si Iwi Laurel.
Katapusan nga nakit-an si Cocoy sang Abril sang nagkadto ini sa haya sang National Artist nga si Nora Aunor nga amo anay ang iya onsceen partner kag suod man nga abyan.
Nangin bida sila nga duha sa mga pelikula kaangay sang “Lollipops and Roses”, “Lollipops and Roses at Burong Talangka,” kag “Impossible Dream.”
Sa teatro naman, nagpasundayag man anay si Cocoy mga produksyon sang Repertory Philippines lakip na sa “Les Miserables”.
Nangin parte man siya sang original London cast sang “Miss Saigon” kaupod kay Lea Salonga.
Matapos ang iya madinalag-on nga karera sa entertainment industry sa Pilipinas, nangin masako man ini sa isa pa ka maduagon nga parte sang iya kabuhi nga amo ang pag-paint samtang yara sa Madrid, Spain.
2nd Bulilit: Trina Legaspi, nagbun-ag sang iya ikaduha nga baby girl
Malipayon nga ginpakigbahin sang former child actress nga si Trina Legaspi ang ila ikaduha nga anak sang iya bana nga si Ryan Jarina.
Grabe, during those moments of pushing, akala ko di ko na kaya… pero kinaya ulit by God’s grace!”
Matandaan nga nagbun-ag si Trina sang iya una nga baby girl nga si Kaela sang Marso 2023.
Kilala si Trina bilang child star nga si Hopia nga produkto sang sketch comedy kaupod sanday Kathryn Bernardo kag Julia Montes.
Nag-untat siya anay sa showbiz agud pasulabihon ang iya pagtuon, nag-gradwar nga may degree sa communications sang 2016, kag nagbalik sa spotlight nga may screen name nga Trina Legaspi.
Legendary frontman sang The Beach Boys nga si Brian Wilson, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na ang legendary frontman kag co-founder sang The Beach Boys nga si Brian Wilson, sa edad nga 82.
Ini ang gin-kumpirma sang iya pamilya apang wala naghatag sang dugang detalye.
Nagpangabay man ang pamilya sang privacy kag hatagan sila sang tion sang ila pagpangasubo.
Si Wilson ang natawo sadtong 1942 sa Hawthorne, California kun sa diin gintukod niya ang grupo kaupod sa mga manghod nga sanday Carl kag Dennis subong man ang ila pakaisa nga si Mike Love kag abyan nga si Al Jardine.
Ginakabig nga isa sa pinakamadinalag-on nga rock band sa US nakabaligya sila sang masobra 100 milyones ka mga rekord sa bug-os nga kalibutan.
Pila sa mga kanta nga ginpasikat sang grupo amo ang “I Get Around”, “Help Me, Rhonda” kag “Good Vibrations”.
Pinay beauty queens, nakaabot na sa Poland para sa Miss Supranational 2025
Nag-abot na sa Poland sanday Tarah Valencia kag Anna Valencia Lakrini sang Pilipinas para sa nagahilapit nga Miss Supranational 2025.
Si Tarah ang mangin tiglawas sang Pilipinas matapos ginrepresentar sini ang Baguio sa Miss Universe Philippines 2024 kag napilian bilang delegado sang pungsod sa Miss Supranational pageant.
Samtang si Anna naman nga isa ka half-Filipina ang nangin pambato sang Pilipinas sa Miss Globe 2023, kag natapos sa 2nd runner up.
Sang Abril, ginhingadlan siya bilang Miss Supranational Germany.
Ang coronation night sang Miss Supranational 2025 ang hiwaton sa Hunyo 28 sa Malopolska, Poland.
Fil-Ams nga sanday Nicole Scherzinger kag Darren Criss, nangibabaw sa Tony Awards 2025
Nagpangibabaw ang Filipino-American actor-singers nga sanday Nicole Scherzinger kag Darren Criss sa Tony Awards 2025.
Si Nicole nga former lead singer sang pop group nga Pussycat Dolls ang nakadaog sang iya una nga Tony sa iya pagdala kay Norma Desmond sa Andrew Lloyd Webber’s Broadway adaptation sang 1950 film nga “Sunset Blvd.”
Sa awards night sa New York, nagpasalamat si Nicole nga nahatagan sang katumanan ang iya handum bilang isa suno sa iya ka “little Hawaiian Ukranian Filipino girl.”
Si Darren naman nga nakilala sa TV musical nga “Glee” ang nakadaog man paagi sa iya performance sa “Maybe Happy Ending.”
Double win ini para kay Criss bangud nga ang “Maybe Happy Ending” amo man ang nakakuha sang Best Musical award.
Magluwas sa iya papel sa musical, isa man si Criss sa producers sang show.
May isa pa ka Pinoy nga amo si Marco Paguia ang nakadaog man sang Best Orchestrations para sa “Buena Vista Social Club.”
Ang Tony Awards amo ang biggest night sa Broadway nga ginatambungan sang most celebrated artists.
Ang pagkilala ginahatag sang American Theatre Wing kag The Broadway League sa tuigan nga seremonya sa Manhattan.
Mayor Vico Sotto, Catriona Gray, gina-ship sang netizens
Mas na-excite pa ang fans matapos nanotisyaran nga naka-Instagram follow sa isa kag isa sanday Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray kag Pasig City Mayor Vico Sotto.
Wala man sang statement sanday Mayor Vico kag Catriona kun may yara sila sang possible project ukon engagement.
Apang bisan wala sang klaro kun ano ang ila koneksyon, todo ang excitement sang netizens sa potential pair.
Matandaan nga karelasyon anay ni Cat ang actor-singer nga si Sam Milby kag natalana pa kuntani nga kaslon sang 2024, apang sini lang nga 2025 sang opisyal nga ginkumpirma ni Sam nga sila ang nagbulaganay.
Wala man sang third party nga involved sa ila breakup suno sa actor.
Sa bahin naman sang personal life ni Mayor Vico, wala ini sang nasugid sa publiko apang gin-athag sini sang makapila ka beses nga indi sini prayoridad ang pag-angkon sang relasyon.
Mangin ang iloy sini nga si Coney Reyes nga isa ka beterana nga aktres ang nagpahayag man anay nga wala ini nagapahilabot sa personal affairs sang iya anak.
Si Mayor Vico amo ang bata ni Coney sa veteran actor-comedian nga si Vic Sotto.
Miss Universe Organization,ginpanginwala ang report nga may ginbag-o sa ila executive structure
Nagpagwa sang pahayag ang Miss Universe Organization (MUO) kasunod sang mga huring-huring nga may ginbag-o sa liderato sang organisasyon.
Ginpanginwala sang organisasyon ang mga report nga nagaangkon nga may ginbag-o sa ila executive structure.
Ginpahayag sang organisasyon nga si Anne Jakrajutatip ang padayon nga Chief Executive Officer (CEO) sang Miss Universe Organization, kag si Raúl Rocha ang padayon nga Presidente.
Dugang pa sa pahayag, ang mga ginapalapnag nga tsismis puro alegasyon kag wala sang kamatuoran, kag indi ini nagarepresentar sang matuod-tuod nga kahimtangan ukon direksyon sang organisasyon.
Ginpangabay sang MUO ang publiko kag mga media partners nga magasalig lamang sa ila opisyal kag verified nga mga information para sa husto nga impormasyon.
Rocha, ang Miss Universe Organization nagpasalig gihapon sa ila misyon nga hatagan sang gahum ang kababainhan sa bug-os nga kalibutan kag maghatag sang global platform para sa mga tingog sang ambisyon, katuyuan, kag kabag-uhan.
LOVE WINS: Alexie Brooks, proud nga nag-share nga may yara siya sang girlfriend
Proud nga ginpakigbahin sang Ilongga beauty queen nga si Alexie Brooks nga may girlfriend ini sa halos isa na ka tuig.
Ini na ang una nga tion nga ginpakigbahin ni Alexie sa publiko ang iya same sex relationship.
Sa isa ka interview sang veteran host nga si Boy Abunda, sang gina-istoryahan ang love life, ginpamangkot si Alexie kun ano ka-importante ang lalaki sa iya nga “concept of happiness”, apang gin-rephrase sang beauty queen ang pamangkot kag ginklaro nga babaye ang iya karelasyon.
The woman,” sabat sang tumandok sang Leon, Iloilo.
Pahayag sini, sang napatay ang iya Lola Basing, ang iya girlfriend amo ang nagbulig sa iya nga makabangon.
Apisar wala na sini ginpangalanan, nagapasalamat si Alexie nga yara ang iya partner nga amo ang nagapalipay sa iya kag nagasuporta sa iya nga mga handum.
Antes sini, vocal na nga daan kag proud si Alexie sa iya nga androgynous identity.
Ang “androgyny” isa ka gender expression nga naga-impon sang traditional masculine kag feminine traits.
Paagi ini sa mga tawo nga mapabutyag ang ila kaugalingon nga indi lamang limitado sa scope sang conventional gender identities.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw sang ginpatigayon sa Leon, Iloilo ang homecoming parade parade sa Filipina beauty queen matapos sini nadag-an ang Miss Eco International crown sa pageant sa Egypt.
F4, maga-updanay liwat para sa concert sa 2026 — reports
Matunog nga ginabati-bati ang reunion sang Taiwanese boy group nga F4 sa 2026.
Base sa mga report, nagsugtanay sanday Jerry Yan, Vanness Wu, Ken Chu, kag Vic Chou nga mag-updanay para sa concert nga amo ang magamarka sang 25th anniversary sang ila nga debut.
Natukod ang F4 sang 2001 sang sanday Yan, Wu, Chu, kag Chou ang nag-updanay sa fictional group sang amo man nga pangalan sa hit drama nga Meteor Garden.
Sa amo nga drama nga nagsikat ilabi na sa Pilipinas, bida man ang late Taiwanese actress kag singer nga si Barbie Hsu ukon si Shan Chai.
Tatlo ka albums anay ang na-record sang F4 nga amo ang Meteor Rain (2001), Fantasy 4ever (2002), kag ang Waiting for You (2007) kun sa diin gin-tour pa nila ang Asya.
Na-disband sila sang 2009, apang bisan separado na, aktibo sila sa show business bilang solo performers.
Katapusan nga nag-reunite ang F4 sa Spring Festival Gala sang Jiangsu TV sa China sang 2013.
Dakota Johnson at Chris Martin, nagbulaganay na matapos ang walo kaa tuig nga relasyon
Nagbulaganay na sanday Dakota Johnson kag Chris Martin matapos ang halos walo ka tuig nga relasyon.
Madumduman nga nag-umpisa ang ila relasyon sang tuig 2017, kag sang 2021 naghimo sang kanta si Martin para sa iya nobya nga ”My Universe” kag ini ang ginkanta niya sa isa ka concert sa London.
Sa kapareho nga tuig nabalitaan na ang duha naga-upod na sa isa ka puluy-an.
Sa pihak sang pagbulaganay, masako naman si Dakota sa iya nga trabaho kun sa diin mangin bida ini siya sa isa ka pelikula kag makaupod niya sanday Pedro Pascal at Chris Evans.
Sa subong, wala pa sang may ginpaguwa nga official statement ang duha tuhoy sa ila pagbulaganay
Magapahuway anay ang Grammy Award-winning singer nga si Jessie J matapos ini na-diagnose nga may early breast cancer.
Pahayag sini, madamo na nga tests ang iya nga gin-agyan halin sang nagguwa ang diagnosis sang Abril sang tion nga na-release man ang iya kanta nga “No Secret.”
Ginpahayag ni Jessie nga nagakapyot siya sa termino nga early kag may paglaum pa para sa iya nga kondisyon.
Base sa iya eksperyensya suno kay Jessie, madamo nga bulig ang nahatag sa iya bangud sa pagpalangga kag suporta sang iban nga mga tawo kun naga-share siya sang iya problema.
Sang 2023, matandaan nga gin-welcome sang 37-anyos nga English singer ang isa ka baby boy sa ila kabuhi matapos nga nagsuprer man anay sang miscarriage.
Sang nagligad nga tuig sang gin-share sini nga na-diagnose man siya nga may obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) kag (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Kilala si Jessie J sa hits nga Price Tag, Bang Bang, Flashlight, Do It Like A Dude, Who You Are, Living My Best Life, kag madamo nga iban pa.
Padilla, luyag nga ideklarar nga national artist si Freddie Aguilar
Nag-file sang resolusyon si Senador Robinhood Padilla para hingyuon nga ideklarar nga national artist ang napatay nga singer nga si Freddie Aguilar.
1364, ginsiling ni Padilla nga dako ang kontribusyon ni Freddie sa musika kag kultura sang Pilipinas nga dapat kilalahon sa idalom sang Sec.
XIV sang Konstitusyon, kag Presidential Proclamation 1001.
Kalakip sa mga sikat niya nga kanta am ang “Anak” nga nagsikat sa iban nga pungsod kag gin-translate sa 51 ka lenggwahe, “Bulag, Pipi At Bingi,” “Magdalena,” “Mindanao,” “Katarungan,” kag iban pa.
Daryl Yap, nag-file sang “not guilty” sa ka kaso nga cyberlibel
Nag-file sang “not guilty” ang Director sang kontrobersyal nga pelikula nga “The Rapists of Pepsi Paloma” (TROPP) nga si Daryl Yap sa duha ka kaso sang cyberlibel nga ginpasaka batok sa iya ni veteran actor kag TV host Vic Sotto.
Ginpahayag sang abogado ni Yap nga si Atty.
Fortun nga may yara sang mandatory mediation conference nga pagahimoon agud talakayon ang posibilidad sang settlement antes ang una nga hearing sa Agosto 19.
Samtang, ang abogado ni Sotto nga si Atty.
Enrique Dela Cruz nagsiling nga wala pa sila nakaestoryahanay parte sa posible nga settlement.
CJ Opiaza, koronahan bilang Miss Grand International 2024 subong nga adlaw
Puno sang excitement kag kalipay nga gin-abi-abi sang fans kag Miss Grand International (MGI) officials ang Filipina beauty queen nga si Christine Juliane “CJ” Opiaza sa iya pag-abot sa Thailand.
Lakip sa MGI officials nga nag-welcome sa iya amo ang big boss sa organisasyon nga si Nawat Itsaragrisil.
Subong na adlaw, Hunyo 3, natalana ang opisyal nga koronasyon kay CJ bilang titleholder sa 2024 edition matapos ang natabo nga kontrobersiya sa anay gindeklarar nga winner nga si Rachel Gupta sang India.
Isa ka season pageant girl ukon kontisera si CJ halin sa Zambales nga kilala sa iya matahum nga pasarela kag nagbulig man sa paghanas sa iban nga beauty queens sa Pilipinas.
Base sa gin-anunsyo sang MGI organization, alas tres karon sa hapon ang ‘crowning ceremony’ sa MGI Hall of Bravo BKK sa Bangkok.
Ini ang una nga golden crown sang Pilipinas matapos ang first runner-up finish nanday Nicole Cordoves kag Samantha Bernardo sang 2016 kag 2020.
‘See you at our next tour stops’ —SB19 kasunod sang ‘Simula at Wakas’ concert sa PH Arena
May appreciation post ang P-pop Kings nga SB19 kasunod sang two-day concert sa Philippine Arena nga amo ang pagsugod sang ila nga “Simula at Wakas” world tour.
See you at our next tour stops,” kabahin sang social media post sang grupo.
Sa pag-umpisa sang ila concert sa atubang sang Pinoy fans sang Mayo 31, ginkanta nanday Pablo, Josh, Ken, Stell kag Justin ang “Dam” kag ang iban pa nga hit songs kaangay sang “What,” “Golden Hour,” “Dungka,” “Creamzone,” kag “Gento.”
Ang magasunod sa Philippine leg sang tour amo ang konsyerto sa Taipei, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Toronto, Calgary, Vancouver, Temecula, Honolulu, Singapore, Dubai, Doha, Riyadh, Jeddah, kag iban pa.
Matandaan nga gin-release sang SB19 ang ila “Simula at Wakas” EP back sang Abril.
Koronasyon sang Miss World 2025, balantayan subong nga gab-i
Patigayunon na 9:00 subong nga gab-i oras sa Pilipinas ang koronasyon sang Miss World 2025.
Sa Final Hot picks nga ginpaguwa sang pageantry expert nga Missosology subong gid lamang nga hapon, nagapang-anum ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Krishnah Gravidez.
Target ni Krishnah ang ikaduha nga Miss World Crown sa Pilipinas kasunod sa titulo nga nakuha ni Megan Young sang 2013.
Sa Instagram, nag-post man ini subong nga adlaw sang iya stunning pictures: “Para sa inyo.
Sa preliminary events, ginpakita sini ang iya talent sa pagkanta, ginduso sini ang advocacy for children, kag nakakuha man sang pwesto sa Top 20 sang Multimedia Challenge.#
Ginbawian na sang kabuhi ang OPM Icon nga si Freddie Aguilar.
Si Aguilar ang napatay sa edad nga 72-anyos.
Kilala ini sa iya mga ambahanon kaangay sang Anak, Magdalena, Ipaglalaban Ko, kag madamo pa.
Janice De Belen, tuman ang kalipay matapos nakaupod sa stage ang iya gina-idolo nga si Korean superstar Song Joong Ki
Tuman nga nga kalipay ang nabatyagan sang actress nga si Janice De Belen matapos nakaupod sa stage ang iya gina-idolo nga si Korean superstar Song Joong Ki sa iya sini nga ginpatigayon nga fan meet sa isa ka mall sa Pasay.
Ginpakigbahin sang actress ang mga laragway sa iya social media kun sa diin makita nga gintagaan siya sang bulak kag gin-kup-an ni Joong Ki sa atubang sang mga linibo ka mga supporters.
Ginpabutyag man ni Janice nga isa si Joong Ki sa iya gina-idolo nga Korean actor, sa diin gin-ako sini nga dako nga bahin sang iya emotional recovery ang K-drama nga ‘Descendants of the Sun’ matapos nga nagtaliwan ang iya iloy.
Matandaan nga si Song Joong Ki ang nagsikat bilang Captain Yoo Shi Ji sa Descendants of the Sun kag nagbida man sa mga K-drama nga Vincenzo kag Reborn Rich, kag amo man sa pelikula nga Space Sweepers.
Nahibaluan nga ang fan meet nga ginpatigayon sa Manila ang labing una nga pagbisita ni Joong ki sa pungsod.
Suportado ni Mamamayang Liberal (ML) Partylist representative Leila de Lima ang tikang sang aktres nga si Nadine Lustre nga mag-file sang complaint kasunod sang iya gin-alegar nga mga atake sa iya online.
Nangin target ang singer-actress sang mga pagpang-harass kag malain nga komento sa social media kaangot sa iya political views sa bag-o lang nagtakop nga eleksyon sa Pilipinas.
Isa siya sa mga nagapanguna nga naga-endorso sang ML Partylist.
Pahayag ni De Lima, tuman ka importante ang pag-file sang reklamo kaangay sini bangud naandan na nga ginagamit ang social media subong agud nga pahipuson ang mga nagahambal para sa hustisya kag reporma.
Ginagamit man suno kay De Lima ang plataporma para gub-on ang kuntani maayo nga diskurso kag bayluhanay sang opinion.
Bisan pa may yara sang freedom of expression suno sa representative-elect, dapat nga indi ini paggamiton sa pagtapak sa kinamatarong, dignidad, kag demokrasya.
Ginagamit ang mga plataporma para buwagin ang makabuluhang diskurso at palitan ito ng galit at paninira,” kabahin sang statement ni De Lima.
Wala pa sang dugang nga statement nga ginpaguwa si Nadine kun sanday sin-o ang iya gin-reklamo.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom sang Safe Spaces Act, ukon sa Republic Act No.
11313, ang gender-based sexual harassment (GBSH) sa public spaces, online, workspaces, kag educational institutions ang mahimo madagdagan sang penalidad sa idalom sang layi.#
Multi-awarded playwright kag visual artist nga si Tony Perez, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 74-anyos ang multi-awarded Filipino playwright kag visual artist nga si Tony Perez.
Base sa kumpirmasyon sang pamilya, Mayo 20 sang ginbawian sang kabuhi si Tony ukon Antonio Benjamin Silva Perez sa matuod nga pangalan.
Ginkilala naman sang Cultural Center of the Philippines (CCP) ang daku nga kontribusyon ni Tony sa Pilipinas lakip na ang pagtindog sini para sa psychological realism sa drama amo man ang spiritual exploration.
Nabun-ag si Tony sang 1951 sa San Fernando, Pampanga.
Lakip sa iya bantog nga plays amo ang “Hoy, Boyet, Tinatawag Ka Na; Hatinggabi Na ‘y Gising Ka Pa Pala,” “Anak ng Araw,” “Gabun,” “K-31,” “Luwalhati,” “Florante At Laura (The Musical),” “Ang Prinsipe Ng Buwan,” “Sa Pugad Ng Adarna (The Musical),” kag madamo nga iban pa.
Lakip naman sa iya nabalhag nga mga libro amo ang “Cubao 1980 At Iba Pang Mga Katha: Unang Sigaw Ng Gay Liberation Movement Sa Pilipinas,” “The Calling: A Transpersonal Adventure,” “Mga Panibagong Orasyon,” kag “Mga Panibagong Kulam Sa Pag-ibig.”
Marina Summers, ginbuksan ang isa naman ka makasaysayan nga kadungganan matapos siya mangin una nga Filipina drag queen nga nakalakat sa red carpet sang 2025 Cannes Film Festival
Isa naman ka makasaysayan nga kadungganan ang ginbuksan ni Marina Summers matapos siya mangin una nga Filipina drag queen nga nakalakat sa red carpet sang 2025 Cannes Film Festival.
Si Marina, isa ka kilala nga personalidad sa drag community, matapos niya i-share sa social media ang iya pagpasalamat kag pagselebrar sang milestone nga nagatindog bilang representante sang Filipino drag kag queer community sa isa ka global event .
Nagpanginbulahan man siya sa iya glam team nga nangin kabahin sang “herstory” nga ila ginhimo.
Sa iya pagpabugal sa Filipino fashion kag artistry, si Marina nagpasundayag sang isa ka elegante nga one-shoulder, sequined black gown, may upod nga chain-link earrings, isa ka kombinasyon nga nagpabaskug sang iya confident kag glamorous nga panindugan sa red carpet.
Daku ang paghangop kag suporta nga nabaton ni Marina halin sa LGBTQ+ community kag mga Pinoy sa bug-os nga kalibutan.
Ang iya presenya sa Cannes indi lamang isa ka fashion statement, kundi isa ka panawagan para sa pagkilala, pagrespeto, kag pagbaton sa LGBTQ+ sa international level.
Luis Manzano, nagapabati-bati sa iya pagbalik bilang game show host kasunod sang eleksyon
Ginalantaw sang supporters kag television viewers nga magbalik sa pag-host sa game shows ang actor-host nga si Luis Manzano matapos ini napaslawan sa 2025 elections.
Nag-post si Luis sang poll sa iya social media pages agud nga magtipon sang komento sa fans kun ano nga palaguwa-on ang iya maayo nga balikan.
Game man nga nagsabat ang kaangay sini nga celebrities lakip na si Melai Cantiveros, asawa sini nga Jessy Mendiola, kag mga abyan kaangay kanday Daniel Matsunaga, Robi Domingo, kag ang actor-director nga si John Prats.
May iban naman nga nagapangabay na sa host nga indi na lang magsulod sa pulitika.
Nahibaluan nga base sa May 12 election results, nalutos si Luis sa Batangas vice gubernatorial race batok kay incumbent Gov.
Daog naman ang iya iloy nga si Vilma Santos sa iya pagpa-eleher liwat bilang gobernadora sa amo nga probinsya.
‘Kailangan ko mag-focus sa sarili ko’—Karen Lopez matapos naglapta nga missing halin sang May 5
Nagpakita na sa publiko ang aktres nga si Karen Lopez matapos naglapta ang impormasyon sa publiko nga missing ini sang masobra na isa ka semana.
Ginpaagi ni Karen sa isa ka Facebook Live ang pagpahibalo sa iya pamilya nga buhi siya kag wala sang malain nga natabo sa iya.
Nagguwa si Karen sa social media matapos nga nagpaguwa na sang statement ang Quezon City Police District (QCPD) nga nagsiling nga wala pa sila sang nabaton nga formal missing-person report.
Nangayo sang pasaylo ang aktres kun napuhag man ang mga tawo sa iya pagkadula.
Pahayag sini, ginkinahanglan lang niya ang pahuway kag ang space, bangud sa mga bagay nga iya naagyan nga sunod sa iya, “mentally and emotionally draining.”
“Pasensya na talaga kung bigla akong nawala nitong mga nakaraang araw.
Kailangan ko lang munang magpahinga at mag-focus sa sarili ko.
Dumaan ako sa mga bagay na medyo mabigat mentally and emotionally, at napagtanto kong kailangan kong unahin ang well-being ko- even if that meant stepping back for a while,” pahayag sini.
“Alam kong may ilan sa inyo ang nag alala o nagtaka, at sobrang na-appreciate ko ang messages at support ninyo.
Salamat sa mga nakaintindi, sa mga nag-reach out, at sa mga patuloy na nandyan.
Matandaan nga base sa nauna nagguwa nga report, Mayo 5 sang ulihi nakit-an si Karen matapos nga nagbiya siya kag ang iya boyfriend sa iya condominium unit.
Si Karen ukon Iris Abraham sa matuod nga pangalan ang naka-sign up sa idalom sang Viva Artists Agency nga amo ang nagadumala sang VMX (ukon kilala anay nga Vivamax).#
Mga kilala nga artista, maaga nga nagboto sa national ang local elections
Sa pagbukas sang mga presinto subong Lunes, Mayo 12, para sa Halalan 2025, ginpakita sang pila ka mga kilalang personalidad ang ila suporta sa demokratikong proseso paagi sa maaga nga pagboto kag pagpanghagad sa publiko nga magboto man.
Si Ogie Alcasid kag Regine Velasquez nagpaambit sang ila pagboto sa social media.
Si Ogie nag-post sang litrato nga may caption nga “Good morning po,” samtang si Regine nagpanghagad sa mga botante nga magboto sang may kaalam.
Si Kim Chiu, actress kag host, nagpahanumdom man sa mga botante nga magpili sang maalam nga kandidato.
Sa iya Instagram Stories, ginpahayag ni Darren Espanto nga nakaboto na siya kag nagpanghagad sa publiko nga gamiton sang husto ang ila katungdanan sa pagboto.
Nagpaambit man sang mensahe si Heaven Peralejo matapos siya magboto: “We showed up.
Si Sharon Cuneta, kaupod ang iya bana nga si Kiko Pangilinan nga nagapadalagan bilang senador, nagboto man subong nga adlaw.
Ginpaambit man ni Senador Robin Padilla sa social media ang litrato sang iya tudlo nga may tinta, bilang ebidensya sang iya pagboto.
Ang ila aktibo nga partisipasyon sa eleksyon nagapakita sang ila suporta sa demokratikong proseso kag nagpanghagad sa publiko nga magboto sang may kaalam kag responsibilidad.
Actress-turned-politician nga si Angelika Dela Cruz, naalarma matapos nakabaton liwat sang death threat
Naalarma si ang actress-turned-politician nga si Angelika Dela Cruz matapos nga nakabaton liwat sang death threat nga may upod nga tatlo ka bala kag sulat nga nagahingyo sa mag-atras siya sa iya kandidatura bilang bise alkalde sang Malabon.
Ginpakita ni Dela Cruz ang litrato sang papel nga may sulat nga nagainganyo sa iya nga mag-atras sa eleksyon, upod sang mga bala nga ginpadala sa iya.
Madumduman nga si Dela Cruz ang nagapungko man bilang Brgy.
Nahibaluan man nga ang actress kag kapitan sang nasambit nga Barangay ang nagapangtubang man sang kaso nga plunder nga may kaangtanan sa ginbasehan nga corruption sa pondo sang barangay kun sa diin naglab-ot sa kantidad nga P70 million.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagapangatubang man ini sang administrative charges, lakip na ang kapabayaan sa iya obligasyon, wala sang opisyal nga leave sa iya mga pag-absent, kag hindi awtorisado nga pagpatugyan sang iya mga responsibilidad sa iya utod nga si Kagawad Erick Dela Cruz.
Sa pihak sang tanan, nagapabilin nga mabakod si Dela Cruz kag ginalantaw ini nga mga isyu bilang higko nga estilo sang politika.
‘Ethan Meets Ethan’: Alden Richards, Tom Cruise, may malawig nga interaksyon sa Seoul
Madamo ang nagbilib sa moment sang Filipino star nga si Alden Richards sang naka-istorya sini sang malawig ang Hollywood superstar nga si Tom Cruise.
Nagkamustahanay ang duha, naglawig ang pag-istoryahanay, kag naghaksanay pa antes ang pagpa-picture.
Gin-share pa ni Alden ang amo nga meeting sa social media nga siling niya ‘Ethan Meets Ethan.’
Si Ethan ang pangalan ni Alden sa Filipino blockbuster movie nga “Hello, Love, Again”, samtang si Ethan man ang pangalan ni Tom sa “Mission Impossible — The Final Reckoning.”
Magluwas kay Cruise, nakaupod man sang newly-crowned Philippine Box Office King sa Seoul ang iban pa nga bida sa pelikula lakip sanday Simon Pegg, Hayley Atwell, kag Greg Tarzan Davis.
Sarang malantaw ini nga pelikula sa Philippine cinemas umpisa sa Sabado May 17.
‘Nagkamali kami’: BINI, nag-sorry kasunod sang kontrobersyal nga viral video
Nag-release sang statement ang P-pop girl group nga BINI agud nga magpangayo sang pasaylo sa tunga sang kontrobersiya nga ginakaulamiran sang tatlo sa ila mga myembro.
Sa pahayag sang grupo kun sa diin nakabutang ang pangalan nanday Colet, Stacey, Jhoanna, Aiah, Maloi, Gwen, Mikha, kag Sheena, ginsiling nga ang video nga naglapta ang isa kuntani ka private moment kun sa diin kaupod nila ang pila sa ila abyan.
Ginpahayag sang BINI nga wala sila sang excuse sa ila nga actions, reactions kag choice of words kag gina-ako nila ang sala nga ila nahimo kag ang salabton kasunod sini.
Ginpahayag man nga nagahinulsol gid sila kag nagapangayo sang sorry sa ila mga abyan, pamilya, fans nga ginatawag ‘Blooms’, kag sa publiko.
Nagpangayo man sila sang tyansa nga maka-reflect kag makatuon sa ila nga mga sala kag tinguhaan nga mangin mas mayo nga version sang ila nga kaugalingon.
Maraming salamat po sa inyong malasakit, suporta, at pang-unawa,” ang pagtapos sang statement sang grupo.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw sang naglapta ang video kun sa diin nakit-an si Jhoanna kag nabatian ang tingog nga ginapahayag ila nanday Stacey kag Colet nga nagakadlaw sa “sexually suggestive scenario” sang ila upod nga sanday Ethan David kag Shawn Castro.
Namensyonar pa ang isa ka sensitibo nga topiko nga pag-sexualize sa isa ka menor de edad.
Madamo ang nagmuno nga indi nagakabagay nga reaksyon sang tatlo bangud ginhimo nga kaladlawan ang sensitibo nga isyu kaangay sang grooming, pedophilia, kag sexual abuse.
May separado naman nga statement sanday Shawn kag David nga nagapangayo man sang sorry kasunod sang malip-ot lang apang nangin viral nga video.#
Sulod ang pambato sang Pilipinas sa Top 10 nga early picks sang prestihiyoso nga Missosology inadlaw antes ang pagpatigayon sang Miss World 2025 pageant.
Ika-10 sa pwesto ang 24-anyos nga Baguio City native nga si Krishnah Gravidez.
Sa first hot picks, nagapanguna naman si Suchata Chuangsri sang Thailand; kag ginasundan sang South Africa, Ireland, Brazil, kag Australia.
Nahibaluan nga Martes sang nagbiya si Krishnah sa Pilipinas kag nagbyahe sa India para sa pageant.
Tinguhaan sini nga madala pauli ang ikaduha nga Miss World crown sa Pilipinas kasunod sang first title sang pungsod nga nadala-pauli ni Megan Young sang 2013.
Rihanna Kag Asap Rocky, nagalaum sang ikatatlo nga anak
Sa isa ka makasaysayan nga edition sang Met Gala nga puno sang mainit nga isyu kag hitabo, liwat nga naging sentro sang atensyon ang couple nga sanday Rihanna kag A$AP Rocky.
Ginbuyagyag ni A$AP Rocky, nga isa sa mga co-chair sang 2025 Met Gala, nga sila ni Rihanna ang nagalaum sang ikatatlo nga anak.
Madumduman nga gin-anunsyo man sang couple ang ila ikaduha nga bata sang 2023 sa Super Bowl halftime show, kun diin si Rihanna nag-perform nga may baby bump.
Ang ila ikaduha nga anak nga si Riot Rose natawo sadtong tuig man, kag ang ila una nga bata nga si RZA, natawo sang Mayo 2022.
Bilang co-chair sang Met Gala nga may tema nga “Superfine: Tailoring Black Style,” ginpabutyag ni Rocky ang iya padayon nga suporta sa fashion industry.
Nagapadayon ang ila impluwensya sa kalibutan sang moda kag musika, kag subong man sa ila padayon nga pagdako bilang pamilya.
Ilonggo designer Ruffy Itaas, mas inspired matapos nagdaug ang ginhimo niya nga Santermo costume sa MUPH
Ginakabig nga dako nga dungog kag kadalag-an sang isa Ilonggo designer nga nalakip ang ginhimo sini nga costume sa top 5 winner sang best in national costume sa sa Miss Universe Philippines.
Ini amo si Ruffy Itaas nga naghimo sang ‘Santermo’ costume nga ginsuksok ni Angeline Cordero Kailani nga tiglawas sang Iloilo sa amo nga pageant.
Sa interview sang Bombo Rady kay Ruffy Itaas, iya ginnpahayag nga ang pagkilala sa iya ginhuman nga national costume ang paghatag man sang nagakadapat man nga pagpasidungog sa talento sang mga Ilonggo.
Suno kay Itaas, indi ini ang una nga bes nga naghimo siya sang national costume sang mga kandidata sa national pageant kag isa ini ka maayo nga oportunidad nga mapakigbahin niy ang iya passion.
Pahayag niya, apisar mythical creature ang tema sang national costume, ginsiguro man sini nga ma-highlight gihapon ang katahum ni Kailani.
Naggamit ini ini sang recycled materials kaangay sang plastic bottles kag iban pa.
Bangud sa amo nga kadalag-an, mas naghatag ini sang inspirasyon sa iya agud hatagan pa gid sang kabuhi ang iya passion sa pagdesinyo kag paghimo sang costume.
Libre nga Concert ni Lady Gaga, gindumog sang masobra duha ka milyon nga mga tawo sa Brazil
Gindumog sang masobra 2 million ka mga tawo ang libre nga concert sang kilala nga pop star nga si Lady Gaga sa baybayon sang Copacabana sa Brazil.
Amo ini ang pinakamadamo nga audience sa bug-os nga karera ni Lady Gaga, kag ginpunduhan sang syudad bilang kabahin sang inisyatibo nga pagpasanyog liwat sang ekonomiya sang Brazil.
Ginalauman sang mga otoridad nga ang aktibidad makahatag sang ginabulubanta nga $100 million (₱5.7 billion) nga benepisyo sa lokal nga ekonomiya.
Ang nasambit nga performance ang kabahin sang promotional tour ni Lady Gaga para sa iya ikawalo nga album nga ginatawag “Mayhem,” nga nagalakip sang mga kanta nga “Abracadabra” kag “Die With a Smile.”
Madumduman nga ang ulihi niya nga pagperform sa Brazil sang tuig 2012.
Ginpahamtang ang hugot nga seguridad sa lugar, upod ang 5,000 ka mga kapulisan nga nagbantay.
Si Lady Gaga indi lang ang una nga artista nga nagtanyag sang libre nga concert sa Brazil.
Sang Mayo 2024, si Madonna man nagpatigayon sang libre nga concert sa amo man nga baybayon.
Nahibaluan nga nagbiyahe pa ang mga fans halin sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang pungsod agud lang masaksihan ang performance sang isa ka kilala nga pop superstar.
‘Santermo’ sang Iloilo Province, lakip sa Top 5 winners sa Best in National Costume sa MUPH 2025
Ini amo si Angeline Cordero Kailani nga nagsuksok sang ‘Santermo’ costume nga ginhimo sang Ilonggo designer nga si Ruffy Itaas.
On fire kaangay sang firebeast ang performance ni Angeline samtang ginalakat sini sa stage ang recycled water bottles nga naadornahan sang gemstones.
Sandig sa gin-anunsyo sang organisasyon isa ka adlaw matapos ang koronasyon, ang mga kandidata nga nakuha sang pinakamataas nga pwesto sa sini nga kategorya amo ang masunod:
Ang nakakuha naman sang korona subong nga tuig amo ang pageant veteran nga si Ma.
Siya ang magadala sang pangalan sang Pilipinas sa Miss Universe 2025 nga hiwaton sa Bangkok, Thailand sa Nobyembre 21.
Yari naman ang kumpleto nga resulta sa MUPH kagab-i.
Ahtisa Manalo sang Quezon Province, ginkoronahan nga Miss Universe Philippines 2025
Ginkoronahan nga Miss Universe Philippines 2025 ang pageant veteran kag tiglawas sang Quezon Province nga si Ma.
Nangibabaw ini sa 65 ka iban pa nga mga kandidata sa koronasyon nga ginpatigayon subong nga gab-i, Mayo 2, sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Siya ang pang-anum nga winner sa idalom sang MUPH organization nga subong ginapangunahan na ni Miss Universe 2013 third runner-up Ariella Arida.
Ang nagpasa sang korona kay Ahtisa amo si Chelsea Anne Manalo nga amo ang reigning Miss Universe Asia.
Crowd-favorite si Ahtisa kag amo man ang number one pick sang madamo nga pageant community websites antes ang coronation night.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nangin second runner-up siya sa amo nga kumpetisyon, kag nagtapos sa Top 10 sang gintiglawas sini ang Pilipinas sa labing-una nga Miss Cosmo competition.
Nangin highlight sa performance sini sang natumba siya sa evening gown competition sa Top 12, apang ginsiguro sini nga gilayon makabawi kag indi madulaan sang composure.
Yari ang kumpleto nga resulta sa subong nga edisyon sang MUPH pageant:
Nagtambong sa event bilang special guest si reigning Miss Universe Victoria Theilvig sang Denmark amo man ang tatlo ka iban pa nga continental queens nga kaupod ni Chelsea Manalo.
Ricky Davao, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 63
Nagtaliwan na ang beterano nga actor nga si Frederick Charles Caballes Davao ukon mas kilala sa iya screen name nga Ricky Davao sa edad nga 63.
Tuig 2024 sang ini ang na-diagnosed sa isa ka terminal illness.
Maduduman nga nakilala si Ricky Davao bilang isa ka dancer sa industriya bag-o ini nga naging isa ka actor.
Wala pa sang kumento ang pamilya kag malapit nga mga abyan tuhoy sa pagtaliwan sang actor.
Finals sang Miss Universe PH 2025, patigayunon na karon sa gab-i
Nagapanguna ang tiglawas sang Quezon Province nga si Maria Ahtisa Manalo sa final hot picks sang kadam-an nga pageant media kag fan communities nga gin-release antes ang koronasyon subong nga adlaw.
Si Ahtisa ang top pick sang Pageant Talk, Pageanthology, Sash Factor, amo man sa Missosology.
Heavy favorite ang ginabansagan nga ‘Pambansang Manika’ kasunod sang Top 10 finish sini sa Miss Cosmo global tilt sang 2024.
Ikaduha na niya ini nga balik sa Miss Universe Philippines stage, kag naka-first runner up man sa Miss International pageant sang 2018.
Sa top picks sang Missosology nga gin-release kahapon, lunsay beterana ang sulod sa Top 5 kun sa diin nagapangaduha si Chelsea Fernandez sang Sultan Kudarat, pangatlo si Yllana Aduana sang Siniloan, Laguna, pang-apat si Winwyn Marquez sang Muntinlupa City kag nagapanglima naman si Katrina Llegado sang Taguig.
Balantayan alas sais karon sa gab-i ang pag-umpisa sang finals sang pageant kun sa diin koronahan ni Miss Universe Philippines 2024 kag reigning Miss Universe Asia Chelsea Manalo ang magapangibabaw sa 66 ka mga kandidata.
Ang winner amo ang magatiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Miss Universe 2025 sa Impact Muong Thong Thani Arena sa Bangkok, Thailand sa Nobyembre 21, 2025.
Mga kandidata sa Miss Universe Philippines 2025, nagpakitang-gilas na sa preliminaries
Napun-an sang katahum ang entablado sang Miss Universe Philippines 2025 kadungan sang pagpaindis-indis sang 66 ka mga kandidata sa preliminaries sa Newport Performing Arts Theater sa Pasay City.
Nagpili ang pageant fans kun sin-o ang ila paborito paagi sa performances sang aspiring queens nga nagalakip sang pamilyar nga mga pangalan kag itsura kaangay kanday Ahtisa Manalo, Winwyn Marquez, kag Katrina Llegado.
Nag-host sa event sanday Miss Universe Philippines 2024 kag reigning Miss Universe Asia Chelsea Manalo kag ang TV personality nga si Erika Kristensen-Lee.
Nag-umpisa ang preliminary competition began sang 10:45 pm — halos tatlo ka oras nga atrasado sa original sini nga schedule nga 8:00 sa gab-i.
Lakip sa natabo amo ang swimsuit round kun sa diin suksok sang candidates ang lavender swimsuits kag purple cover-ups.
Ginsundan ini sang pagpakitang-gilas sang contestants sa ila elegant walks sa evening gown category.
Nangin selebrasyon man ini sang Filipino ingenuity kag craftsmanship bangud kada gown ang himo sang Filipino designers.
Abril 30 ang national costume competition samtang sa Mayo 2, alas sais sa gab-i, ang koronasyon sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Gin-post sini sa Instagram ang iya selfie samtang nagasuksok sang hospital gown kag yara sa hospital bed.
“Happy late and advanced Mother’s Day to my wife,” pahayag sini sa caption dala ang hashtags nga #HappyVA-SEC-TO-MEEE kag #snipsnip.
Kasado si Drew sa host nga si Iya Villania halin sang 2014.
May yara na sila sang lima ka mga bata nga sanday Primo, Leon, Alana, Astro, kag Anya.
Base sa Mayo Clinic, ang vasectomy ang isa ka sahi sang birth control kag ginakonsiderar nga minor surgery kun sa diin utdon kag iga-seal sang surgeon ang tubes nga nagadala sang sperm.
Sa comments section, gindayaw sang fans kag netizens si Drew sa pag-promote sang sini nga sahi sang contraceptive para sa mga lalaki.
Nagtaliwan na subong nga adlaw, Abril 22, 2025 ang OPM veteran nga si Hajji Alejandro sa edad nga 70.
Kilala si Hajji sa ambahanon sini nga si “Kay Ganda ng Ating Musika.”
Ang kamatayon ni Hajji ang ginkumpirma mismo sang malapit nila nga abyan nga si Girlie Rodis kag longtime manager sang anak sini nga si Rachel Alejandro.
Nagpangayo naman ang pamilya ni Hajji sang privacy.
Patigayunon subong nga aga ang state funeral para sa national artist nga si Nora Aunor.
Halin alas dose sa udto, himuon naman ang necrological services sa Libingan ng mga Bayani sa Taguig kun sa diin igalubong man ang Philippine cinema superstar.
Suno sa NCCA kag CPP, mahimo makatambong ang publiko sa necrological services, apang limitado lamang ang pulungkuan nga available.
Sa indi naman makatambong, mahimo magbantay sa livestream sang CCP kag NCCA sa funeral rites paagi sa ila Facebook pages.
Kagab-i, nagbisita si President Ferdinand ”Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
kag si First Lady Louise Liza Araneta-Marcos sa haya sang beterana nga aktres sa Heritage Park sa Taguig.
Abril 16 sang napatay si Nora sa edad nga 71-anyos bangud sa acute respiratory failure.
Isa siya ka decorated personality nga nahingadlan nga National Artist sang 2022 bangud sa daku nga kontribusyon sang iya dinekada nga pagtrabaho sa industriya bilang isa ka actress, singer, kag film producer.
Lakip sa iya iconic films amo ang Minsa y Isang Gamu-gamo (1976), Ikaw ay Akin (1978), Atsay (1978), Bona (1980), The Flor Contemplacion Story (1995), kag Himala (1982).
Mayor Treñas, nagadayaw sa “humility” ni Miss Eco International Alexie Brooks
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nakit-an niya sa beauty queen kag athlete ang paminatasan sang matuod nga Ilongga nga mapainubuson ukon humble.
Suno sa alkalde, dalayawon nga wala gid sang bugal si Brooks sa pihak sang madamo niya nga achievements kag pagdaug sang international title.
Pahayag pa sang alkalde, wala man ginakalimtan ni Brooks nga i-promote ang Iloilo City sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ginpasiguro naman sang alkalde nga may mainit nga pag-welcome ang Iloilo City sa pagpauli ni Brooks.
Posible man nga may mabaton nga incentives ang Ilongga beauty queen.
Ginalantaw man sang alkalde nga kilalahon nga adopted daughter sang Iloilo City si Alexie nga tumandok sang Leon.
Renowned Ilonggo designer, ginpakigbahin ang inspirasyon sa likod sang national costume ni Miss Eco International 2025 Alexie Mae Brooks
ILOILO – Ginpakigbahin sang renowned Ilonggo designer nga si Tata Blas Pinuela ang inspirasyon sa likod sang national costume kag eco dress nga gingamit ni Miss Eco International 2025 Alexie Mae Caimoso Brooks.
Nakuha sang Ilongga queen ang Best in National Costume award sa Mangayon costume sini nga himo sang Ilonggo designer nga si Tata Blas Pinuela nga amo man anay ang naghimo sang Ugto-ugto costume sa MUPH 2024.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Pinuela, iya ginpahayag nga dungan sini nga ginhimo ang national costume kag eco dress ni Alexie sa diin naglawig sang tatlo ka bulan ang pagplano kag duha ka semana naman ang paghimo kag pagtahi.
Suno kay Pinuela, ang inspirasyon sini sa paghimo sang Mangayon costume amo ang ginluthang nga Philippine Eagle sa Barangay Mangayon, Compostela Valley, Davao de Oro.
Nagabug-at naman ang national costume ni Alexie sang 16 kilograms.
Samtang ang iya naman nga eco dress sa diin Top 6 ini ang ginbase naman sa West Philippine Sea.
Ini ang himo naman sa recyclable materials kaangay sang disposable spoon kag plastic bottles.
Ginpabugal naman ni Pinuela ang kadalag-an nga gindala ni Alexie sa Pilipinas.
Miss Eco International 2025 Alexie Mae Brooks, handom na nga mangin beauty queen humalin sang bata pa lang ini
ILOILO – Bata pa lang, huyog na ni Miss Eco International 2025 Alexie Mae Caimoso Brooks nga magpasakop sa mga pageant.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jennifer Caimoso Cadion, tiya ni Alexie kag tumandok sang Barangay Buga, Leon, Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga sang yara sa sekondarya ang Ilongga beauty queen, nagpasakop na ini sa pageant.
Suno kay Cadion, tuig 2023 sang nakuha ni Alexie ang titulo nga Miss Buga 2013.
Matapos sini, nagpasakop na si Alexie sa Miss Iloilo 2024.
Ini man ang nangin lyabe agud makapasakop ini sa Miss Universe Philippines 2014 sa diin gintiglawas sini ang Iloilo City.
Ginkoranahan naman ini bilang Miss Eco International Philippines 2025.
Subong nga adlaw, naghatag ini sang dungog indi lang sa ila pamilya kundi sa bug-os nga Pilipinas matapos ginkoronahan bilang Miss Eco International 2025.
Naghibi naman ang pamilya ni Alexie bangud wala sila nagalaom nga makapasakop ini sa international pageant kag makakuha sang korona.
Miss Eco International 2025 Alexie Mae Brooks, nangin biktima man sang bullying sadto bangud sa iya panit
ILOILO – Proud ang pamilya sang Ilongga beauty queen nga si Alexie Mae Caimoso Brooks sa Barangay Buga, Leon, Iloilo matapos ginkoronahan ini bilang Miss Eco International 2025.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Rose Caimoso Calasabsab, pamilya ni Alexie, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ang iya kalipay matapos nakadala ini sang bugal sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Calasabsab, bata pa lang si Alexie, nagatinguha gid ini sa tanan nga mga kompetisyon nga iya ginapasakupan.
Sang una suno sa natungdan, luyag sang Ilongga beauty queen nga mangin atleta, kag sa ulihi, ginsulod naman sini ang patag sang pageantry.
Apang wala man nangin mahapos ang paglab-ot ni Alexie sa iya handom bangud nabiktima man ini sang bullying sa diin ginasunlog ini sang mga kabataan nga ‘Ati’ bangud sa color sang iya panit.
Sa baylo nga mangakig suno sa natungdan, ginapili ni Alexie nga magpa-umod.
Ini nga pagbinatasan suno sa iya pamilya ang nadala ini Alexie sang nagdako na ini sa diin ang mga naga-bully sa iya sadto ang naga-idolo naman sa iya sa subong.
Nangin dalangpan man sini ang iya ‘Lola Basing’ nga amo ang nagpadako sa iya sa diin naapektuhan gid ini sang tuman matapos nagtaliwan ini.
‘Lola, I made it’ — Alexie Brooks kasunod sang iya pagdaog sa Miss Eco International 2025
Malip-ot ang mga tinaga apang puno sang bugal nga gindumdom ni Alexie Brooks ang isa ka importante nga tawo sa iya kabuhi matapos nadag-an sini ang korona sa Miss Eco International 2025.
I made it,” caption sang Ilongga beauty queen sa iya Facebook post kun sa diin may laragway si ‘Lola Basing’ kag yara naman sa background si Alexie kasunod sang iya pagdaog sa Egypt.
Indi lipod sa ihibalo sang publiko ang istorya ni Alexie — nga si Lola Basing amo ang nagpadaku kag nagtatap sa iya tubtub nga amat-amat sini nga nalab-ot ang iya mga handum.
Sa backstage interview sa Top 5 finalists, emosyonal man ang Pinay sang gin-share sini ang kabudlay sang nadula ang iya Lola nga nangin rason man suno sa iya kun ngaa nag-alang-alang siya kun magpadayon pa sa pag-intra sa kumpetisyon.
Septyembre 2024 sang napatay ang iya Lola — tion man nga nag-post si Brooks kun ano ini kasakit para sa iya.
Sa isa ka separado nga post, ginbutyag sini anay kun ano ka daku ang pagpalangga sini sa iya Lola nga amo suno sa iya ang iya pinakasuod nga abyan kag amo ang iya “greatest love.”
Pasado alas singko kaina sang aga (oras sa Pilipinas) nakuha ni Brooks ang ikatatlo nga Miss Eco International crown sang Pilipinas kasunod kanday Cynthia Thomalla sang 2018 kag Kathleen Paton sang 2022.
Nakuha man sang Ilongga ang Best in National Costume award paagi sa Philippine Eagle-inspired costume nga desinyo sang Ilonggo designer nga si Tata Pinuela.
Nora Aunor, ginhatagan sang military salute, natalana nga ilubong sa Libingan ng mga Bayani
Nagtipon ang bantog nga mga artista kag ang mga abyan sang movie icon nga si Nora Aunor kadungan sang una nga gab-i sang iya haya sa Heritage Park sa Taguig.
Lakip sa yara sa misa nga ginpatigayon alas otso kagab-i amo sanday Jericho Rosales, Janine Gutierrez, singer nga si Imelda Papin, Ricky Lee, Nadia Montenegro, Coco Martin kag Julia Montes, kag iban pa nga dalagku nga pangalan sa showbiz industry.
Ginbutang man ang Philippine flag sa lungon sang aktres bilang parte sang pag-abi-abi kag pagdayaw sa iya bilang National Artist.
Naghatag man ang myembro sang Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) sang military salute sa Philippine cinema “superstar.:
Bukas sa publiko ang haya sang film icon sa Abril 19 kag 20 kag naka-schedule naman ang state funeral sa Abril 22, Martes.
Ilubong ang 71-anyos nga beterana nga singer-actress sa Libingan ng mga Bayani bilang testamento sa iya legasiya bilang national treasure.
Ginbun-ag si “Ate Guy” bilang si Nora Cabaltera Villamayor sa Iriga City, Camarines Sur, kag nahingadlan nga National Artist for Film and Broadcast Arts sang 2022.
Pinaka-kilala siya sa iya iconic roles sa mga pelikula nga “Himala,” “Bona,”, “Minsa’y Isang Gamu-gamo”, “Bulaklak sa City Jail”, “The Flor Contemplacion Story”, “Tatlong Taong Walang Diyos”, kag iban pa.
Lakip naman sa iya katapusan nga nangin proyekto amo ang “Mananambal” kag “Pieta”.
Magluwas sa pag-arte, kilala man siya sa pagkanta kag lakip sa iya bantog nga mga ambahanon amo ang “Pearly Shells” kag “Tiny Bubbles.”
Ginkasal siya anay sa aktor nga si Christopher de Leon sang 1975, apang sang ulihi nag-separar kag gin-annul ang kasal sang 1996.
May yara sila sang biological child nga si Ian kag adopted children nga sanday Lotlot, Matet, Kiko, kag Kenneth.
Nora Aunor to Be Laid to Rest at Libingan ng mga Bayani”
Superstar kag national artist nga si Nora Aunor, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na ang beterana nga aktres kag national artist nga si Nora Aunor sa edad nga 71-anyos.
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya pamilya paagi sa iya anak nga si Ian de Leon nga naglaragway sa superstar bilang “heart of the family” kag “source of unconditional love, strength, and warmth.”
May separado man nga post ang anak sini nga si Matet de Leon nga nagapabutyag sang pagpalangga sa iya mommy kag nag-throwback sang ila mga laragway.
Sa inisyal nga impormasyon, ginbawian sang kabuhi ang aktres samtang nagapaidalom sa heart procedure isa ka bulan lamang antes ang iya ika-72 nga kaadlawan.
Ginbun-ag si Ate Guy bilang si Nora Cabaltera Villamayor sa Iriga City, Camarines Sur, kag sa iya pagsulod sa entertainment industry, ginbansagan siya nga “superstar” kag nahingadlan man nga National Artist for Film and Broadcast Arts sang 2022.
Nakuha na subong sang Pilipinas ang No.1 spot sa “Miss Eco People’s Choice” ranking sa Miss Eco International pageant kun sa diin tiglawas sang pungsod ang Ilongga nga si Alexie Mae Caimoso Brooks.
Nagapangaduha naman ang Ukraine matapos nalapawan ang USA kag United Kingdom.
Nahibaluan nga ang magadaug nga may highest voting points ang hatagan sang award nga “Miss Eco People’s Choice” title kag automatic nga malakip bilang isa sa Top 10 finalists.
Si Brooks nga tumandok sang Leon ang una na man nalakip sa top 10 sang Best Resort Wear kag 1st runner up naman ini sa Talent competition.
Ilongga beauty queen, 1st Runner-Up sa Mutya ng PRISAA 2025
ILOILO CITY – Wala sang katupong nga kalipay ang nabatyagan sang Ilongga beauty queen matapos nagdaog bilang First Runner-Up sa Mutya ng PRISAA 2025 nga ginpatigayon sa Tuguegarao City.
Kaisha Ann Barrios, 20, tumandok sang Janiuay, Iloilo, kag level 3 nursing student sang University of San Agustin.
Si Barrios ang ginkoronahan man bilang Miss University of San Agustin 2023.
(BARRIOS 2) Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Barrios, iya ginpahayag nga bata pa lang ini mahilig na siya magpasakop sa mga pageant.
Suno kay Barrios, madamo sang mga matahom nga kandidata nga nagpasakop sa nasambit nga pageant, apang ginakabig sini nga advantage ang iya background sa public speaking.
Apang sa 14 ka mga kandidata, ginpahayag sini nga ‘blessed’ na siya kun ano man ang mangin resulta sang kompetisyon.
Ginpahayag sini nga tuman ang iya pagpabugal bangud gintiglawas sini ang Western Visayas, indi lang sa pagpakita sang katahom, kundi mangin sa kaisog kag may maayo nga tagipusuon.
Magapaindis-indis ang nagkalain-lain nga mga candidates para sa Mr.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jeremiah Keziah Balmori, Vice President for Non-Academics sang Iloilo Federation of Junior Philippine Institute of Accountants (IFJPIA), iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga pageant ang pasakupan sang nagkalain-lain nga mga Accounting students halin sa mga kolehiyo kag unibersidad sa Iloilo.
Ini ang ginalakipan sang Central Philippine University, St.
Ginpahayag sini nga ang kahiwatan ang indi lang beauty pageant, kundi ini ang pagpakita man sang talento kag paghugpong sang mga kabataan nga nagahanda agud mangin professional sa patag sang Accounting.
Patigayunon naman ang coronation sa Hua Siong College of Iloilo – Ledesco Campus sa Mayo 3.
Nagtaliwan na ang singer, songwriter, kag aktres nga si Pilita Corrales.
Ang showbiz icon nga ginbansagan nga Asia’s Queen of Songs ang napatay sa edad nga 85.
Nakilala ini sa pagkanta niya sang folk songs nga “Usahay” kag “Matud Nila” kag ginakabig man siya nga champion of Bisaya music.
Siya ang nangin popular sang 1960s bilang singer kag nakahimo man sang career sa telebisyon kag pelikula.
Marjorie Barretto, gindepensahan ang iya kabataan sa tunga sang isyu kay Dennis Padilla
Gindepensahan sang former actress-politician nga si Marjorie Barretto ang iya mga kabataan sa tunga sang kontrobersiya nila kag sang ila amay nga si Dennis Padilla.
Madugay na nasapubliko ang problema sa relasyon sang mag-amay, apang nagdugang ini sang ginkasal sang damlag lang si Claudia sa long-time boyfriend sini nga si Basti Lorenzo kun sa diin nag-reklamo si Dennis nga ginpakadto siya sa kasal indi bilang tatay kundi bilang guest.
Nagbilin man ini sang komento sa picture ni Julia nga nagasiling, ‘Kapal niyo.’
Suno kay Marjorie, mas nagalayo lang ang buot sang iya mga bata nga sanday Julia, Claudia, kag Leon sa ila amay bangud sa mga interview sini kun sa diin ginapangbuyagyag sini ang ila personal nga mga isyu.
Makasakit ini sa kabataan suno kay Marjorie ilabi na bangud gina-bash sila sa kada tion nga maghambal si Dennis.
Ginpanginwala man ni Marjorie nga gina-“brainwash” sini ang iya kabataan nga magpinsar sang malain sa ila amay; sa pagkamatuod suno sa iya, si Dennis ang nagahimo sini.
“Mula nung bata pa mga anak ko, bago kami maghiwalay, 18 years ago, tuwing hinihiram niya mga anak ko, para sa kaalaman ng lahat ng tao and as God is my witness, ako ang sinisiraan niya sa mga anak ko.
Dennis, huwag mo ‘tong i-dedeny, ever, because ang lagi mong sinasabi tuwing susunduin [mo] mga anak ko, ‘Paglaki niyo, I will tell you what your mom did to me,'” pakigbahin sang aktres.
Ginbulgar man ni Marjorie nga wala man nagpakigbato si Dennis para sa joint custody sang ila kabataan.
Siya man suno sa aktres ang nagsabat sa tanan nga finances sang ila kabataan sa 18 ka tuig nga separado sila bilang mga ginikanan.
Kabahin man sang ginsapubliko ni Marjorie amo nga physically abusive si Dennis kag siya man ang naga-trigger sang anxiety sang iya kabataan tubtub nga nagapalangurog sila kun mabatian ang iya tingog.
“Ang gusto ni Dennis, hindi relasyon sa mga anak niya.
Ang gusto niya, atensyon,” pahayag pa ni Marjorie.
Ginpakigbahin man sini nga may tendency si Dennis nga pasobrahan ang iya mga pahayag — rason kun ngaa ang kabataan ang gina-bash sa social media.
Sa separado nga interview sa actor, ginsiling sini nga tapos na kag kapoy na siya sa pagkaayo sang ila nga naguba nga relasyon sa iya kabataan.
Tatay na lang nila ako pero bringing back the relationship, wala na siguro.
“Tatanggalin ko na lahat [ng posts ko about them].
“Ni wala akong picture sa kahit saang social media nila.
Ne walang mention ng pangalan ko, nanay ko, tatay ko na artista din sa kanilang social media posts.
Tiglawas sang Western Visayas, 1st runner-up sa Mutya ng PRISAA 2025
Kaisha Ann Barrios, 20, tumandok sang Janiuay, Iloilo kag level 3 nursing student sang University of San Agustin.
Kasugpon ini sang placement streak sang Region VI sa Top 5 sa amo nga kumpetisyon nga nag-umpisa kanday Regine Romero sang Central Philippine University kag Bea Loberiza sang John B.
Sa sini nga tuig, gindeklarar naman nga winner si Cassandra Sofia Tapia nga amo ang nag-represent sa Bicol Region.
Nahibaluan nga sa sini nga edisyon sang PRISAA, ginabanta 20,000 nga student-athletes, coaches, kag mga opisyal halin sa 400 private schools ang nagpasakop sa nagkalain-lain nga mga kumpetisyon lakip na ang archery, athletics, badminton, baseball, basketball (3×3), basketball (5×5), beach volleyball, boxing, chess, dancesport, football, gymnastics, karatedo, sepak takraw, softball, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, lawn tennis, indoor volleyball kag weightlifting.
Gin-umpisahan ini sang Abril 5 kag natalana nga magtakop sa Abril 11.
Alexie Brooks, nag-abot na sa Egypt agud mag-compete sa Miss Eco International 2025
Nakaabot na ang Ilongga beauty queen nga si Alexie Mae Brooks sa Egypt agud handaan ang pagtiglawas sa Pilipinas sa Miss Eco International 2025 pageant.
Gin-share ni Alexie ang iya pictures sa iya arrival sa amo nga pungsod suksok ang puti nga structured suit, pair of shorts, kag thigh-high boots.
Gilayon man nga nagtipon ang iban nga mga kandidata para sa orientation day nga amo ang pamuno sang global tilt para sa pag-promote sang advocacy kag sisterhood.
Stay tuned — this queen is ready to make waves!,” post naman sang organisasyon nga nagalakip sang pictures sang Pinay delegate.
Nagpadala naman sang cheers kag mensahe sang good luck ang iban nga Filipina beauty queens kaangay kanday Ahtisa Manalo kag Victoria Velasquez Vincent.
Si Alexie ang nagtapos anay sa Top 10 sang Miss Universe Philippines 2024 kun sa diin si Chelsea Manalo ang nagdala-pauli sang korona.
Sa nauna nga interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Brooks, ginpahayag sini nga antes magkadto sa Egypt, paspas na ang ila preparasyon para madeliver ang best performance sa stage lakip na ang para sa question-and-answer, runway performance, kag advocacy work nga naka-sentro sa women empowerment.
Ini ang iya una nga international pageant, gani may pressure suno sa iya, apang ginakabig man niya ini nga pribilehiyo.
Pananglitan magdaog ini, siya ang ikatlo halin sa Pilipinas nga may korona sa Miss Eco International pageant.
JC de Vera, happy dad sa pagkabun-ag sang ila ikatatlo nga baby sang iya non-showbiz wife
Gin-welcome na sang aktor nga si JC de Vera kag non-showbiz wife nga si Rikkah Cruz ang ila ikatatlo nga baby.
Gin-anunsyo sang actor ang pagkabun-ag sang iya anak nga lalaki paagi sa Instagram post.
Nagpalab-ot naman sang ila kalipay para kay JC sanday Ogie Alcasid, John Prats, Vhong Navarro kag Dominic Roque.
Nahibaluan nga una nga ginbun-ag ang ila subang nga anak nga si Lana sang 2018 kag si Laura sang Hunyo 2023.
Sanday De Vera kag Cruz ang nagpakasal sang 2018 sa isa ka civil ceremony kag sa simbahan sang September 2021.
‘I am proud, love wins’: Klarisse de Guzman, nag-ako nga isa ka bisexual
Gin-ako sang 33-anyos nga Filipina singer nga si Klarisse de Guzman nga myembro siya sang LGBT+ community.
Sa latest episode sang “Pinoy Big Brother: Celebrity Collab Edition”, magluwas sa pagbuyagyag sang iya matuod nga sexual orientation, gin-share man sang singer nga apat ka tuig na ang iya same-sex relationship sa partner sini nga si “Trina.”
Gina-identify ni Klarisse ang iya kaugalingon bilang bisexual.
Dugang sini, ang iya girlfriend amo ang nagatatap sa iya nga iloy.
‘Yung kinukwento ko sa inyo na may four years akong partner.
Hindi ko in-expect na masasabi ko ito ngayon,” suno kay de Guzman.
“Ang lakas ng loob ko para sabihin and hindi alam ng parents ko, bago mawala Papa ko, alam ng Mama ko, and kasama ngayon ng Mama ko is her,” dugang sini.
Gin-share man sang singer nga ginabaton sang iya pamilya kun ano man ang iya sexual orientation.
Ginpahayag sini nga kumportable man siya nga na-share ini kaupod sa iban nga yara sa reality show ilabi na bangud ang nag-facilitate sang confession amo ang beauty-queen kag model-actress nga si Michelle Dee nga una naman nag-ako nga isa siya ka bisexual.
“I guess komportable ako sabihin sa inyong lahat with Michelle Dee pa.
Hindi ko mahintay na ma-meet n’yo siya and I miss her.
Sobrang suwerte ko lang talaga kasi tanggap ako ng parents ko,” suno sa iya.
Even some of my relatives alam pero hindi ko pa nga nasasabi sa work ko, so I am proud, love wins.”
Nahibaluan nga antes kay Klarisse, madamo na nga queer stories ang nagsugod sa sini nga television reality competition; umpisa kay BB Gandanghari nga subong isa ka transwoman.
Yara man si Fifth Solomon sa “All In” edition kag ang trans woman nga si Raf Juane sa “Kumunity Season 10.” Na-feature man diri ang gay couple nga sanday Dingdong Bahan kag Patrick Ramirez bilang duo sang nagligad nga last season.
Gloria Diaz, proud nga may love life apang wala na sang plano nga magpakasal
Ginpadayaw ni Miss Universe 1969 Gloria Diaz nga may yara ini sang love life.
Suno sa 74- anyos nga si Diaz, ang iya nobyo nga si Mike de Jesus nga presidente sang isa ka bangko, ang mas bataon sang sa iya.
Pahayag ni Gloria, 28 anyos na sila nga magkarelasyon.
Apang suno sa iya, indi na ini bukas para nga magpakasal liwat.
Ginpakigbahin man niya nga apisar nagapabilin sila nga nga friends sang iya ex-husband.
Sa pagkamatuod, nagaupdanay pa gani sila sang nga tatlo sang iya partner kag ex-husband nga naga-bond kag naga-hang out.
Paghigugma, paghimakas kag determinasyon ang nangin sentro sang prestihiyoso nga Mister and Miss University of San Agustin (USA) 2025.
Ini matapos ginkoronahan ang real-life couple nga sanday Matt Andrew Daniel Sy Española kag Vjan Ylsaia Gallinero sa diin wala lang sila naghimo sang pangalan sa maragtas sang unibersidad, kundi mas ginpapag-on pa nila ang ila love story.
Si Española, nga Medical Technology student sa College of Pharmacy and Medical Technology, tumandok sang General Santos City ang indi na bag-o sa mga pageant, bangud nakapasakop na siya sa kaangay nga kompetisyon sang high school.
Samtang, si Gallinero, nga Nursing student sa College of Nursing, Nutrition, and Dietetics, ang ginkoronahan na bilang Miss 46th Carabao Carroza Festival Queen sang 2018, sa edad nga 16.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Gallinero, iya ginpahayag nga wala nangin mahapos ang iya pagkuha sang korona.
Sang 2022, nagpasakop na siya sa Mister at Miss USA, apang nagtapos lang bilang 1st runner-up.
Sa pihak sang kahangawa, nagdesisyon siya nga magpasakop sa liwat kag matapos ang tatlo ka tuig, nagbunga ang iya pagtinguha.
Subong, bilang Miss USA 2025, katuyuan niya nga mangin inspirasyon sa iban samtang padayon nga ginatuman ang iya handom nga mangin isa ka registered nurse.
Para naman kay Española, mas nangin espesyal ang iya kadalag-an bangud kaupod niya ang iya girlfriend nga nagdaog.
Subong nga Mister USA 2025 na si Española, ginatutukan niya nga makatapos sa pagtuon agud mangin Medical Technologist kag sa ulihi, mangin isa ka doctor.
Ginpasalig man sini nga magahatag sila nga power couple sang inspirasyon sa sulod kag gwa sang unibersidad.
Miss Universe Continental Queens, magabisita sa Pilipinas sa Abril
Magabisita sa Pilipinas ang Miss Universe Continental Queens sa Abril 26 kag magatinir sa pungsod tubtub sa Mayo 3.
Antes sa Pilipinas, magabisita anay ang apat ka mga reyna sa Thailand halin sa March 31 tubtub sa April 25.
Natalana pa nga ipaguwa ang dugang nga mga detalye sa tour.
Nahibaluan nga ang apat ka queens ang ginhatagan sang continental titles sang 2024 agud mag-represent sang continental groups.
Ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Chelsea Manalo amo ang napilian nga una nga Miss Universe Asia apisar nga nagtakop ang iya Miss Universe stint sa Top 30.
Nadag-an man ni Chelsea ang Best in National Costume award sa iya “Hiraya” costume sa ginpatigayon nga global pageant sa Mexico.
Ang tatlo ka iban pa nga queens amo sanday Miss Africa & Oceania Chidimma Adetshina halin sa Nigeria; Miss Europe & Middle East Matilda Wirtavuori halin sa Finland; kag Miss Americas Tatiana Calmell halin sa Peru.
Balantayan naman ang koronasyon sang Miss Universe Philippines 2025 sa Mayo 2, 6 p.m., sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Napili nga “Women of the Year” sang Billboard Philippines ang P-pop powerhouse nga BINI nga ginabug-usan nanday Jhoanna, Aiah, Colet, Maloi, Gwen, Stacey, Mikha.
Ikaduha na ini nga tion nga ginkilala sang Billboard Philippines ang BINI matapos nakuha man anay ang Rising Star award sang March 2024.
Sang nagligad nga edisyon, lakip sa awardees amo sanday Sarah Geronimo, Regine Velasquez, Pilita Corrales, Ena Mori, Morissette Amon kag Belle Mariano.
Nahibaluan nga lakip sa ginahandaan subong sang girl group amo ang upcoming world tour nga may shows sa Dubai, London, Canada kag sa US matapos ang first leg sa Philippine Arena sa temprano nga bahin subong nga tuig.#
Buboy Villar, gin-deny nga ginasakit sadto ang iya partner kag wala nagasustento sa ila mga anak
Hugot nga ginpanginwala sang komedyante nga si Buboy Villar ang mga alegasyon sang iya anay nobya nga si Angillyn Gorens nga ginsakit niya ini ka ginpabay-an ang ila mga anak.
Suno kay Buboy, ginkakibot niya ang mga pahayag ni Angillyn bangud wala gid niya ini ginsakit kag sa isyu naman sang sustento sa kabataan, ginsiling ni Buboy nga may agreement na sila tuhoy diri .
Pahayag sang actor, nakaatubangay na sila sadto kaupod ang ginikanan ni Angillyn kag didto niya ginplastar kun ano ang masarangan niya bilang amay kag nakasugtan nila ini.
Suno sa komedyante, sa pihak sang pahayag ni Angillyn, ginarespeto niya ini kag indi na magpagwa sang iya bersyon sang istorya para indi na maglala ang sitwasyon.
Dugang pa ni Buboy, nakig-istorya naman ini sa iloy ni Angillyn.
Nahibaluan nga sa subong, may yara sang partner si Buboy kag may isa naman sila ka anak.
Song Joong-ki, excited sa ‘wonderful time’ kaupod ang iya Pinoy fans sa Mayo
Excited na ang South Korean actor nga si Song Joong-ki nga maka-upod ang iya Filipino fans sa pagbisita sini sa Manila.
Ang actor nga kilala sa hit romance drama nga “Descendants of the Sun” ang naka-schedule nga magpatigayon sang “IAM Song Joong-ki: Live in Manila” fan meet sa Mall of Asia Arena sa May 24.
Ini nga one-night event dala sang IAM Worldwide amo ang una nga live appearance ni Joong-ki sa Manila.
Ginplastar naman ang seat map kag ang ticket prices nga naga-umpisa sa P2,500 pasaka sa P12,500.
Popular man si Joong Ki sa dramas nga “Sungkyunkwan Scandal,” “Arthdal Chronicles,” “Vincenzo” kag “Reborn Rich.”
Ginkasal na ang anay Miss Universe nga si Zozibini Tunzi.
Ginpakigbahin sang South African queen sa iya Instagram ang mga laragway sang ila seremonya sang kasal kaupod ang iya partner nga si Luthando Bolowana.
Sa madumduman nagdaog si Zozibini sa Miss Universe pageant sang 2019, kag siya nagbulos sa Filipina beauty queen nga si Catriona Gray.
Si Zozibini ang ikatatlo nga Miss Universe title holder sang South Africa.
Nagbisita si Zozibini sa Manila sang 2023 bilang espesyal nga bisita sa Miss Universe Philippines pageant, kun sa diin nagdaog si Michelle Dee.
Natagaan man siya sang kahigayunan nga makaupod ang kapareho nga Miss Universe queens sang 2021 sa South Africa, nga amo sanday Catriona Gray, Pia Wurtzbach kag Andrea Meza sang Mexico.
Reigning Miss Universe Victoria Theilvig, magaabot sa Pilipinas subong nga adlaw
Magaabot si Miss Universe 2024 Victoria Kjaer Theilvig sa Pilipinas subong nga adlaw kag natalana nga magtinir sa pungsod tubtub sa Marso 30.
Gin-anunsyo ini sang Miss Universe organization apang wala pa sang ginhatag nga dugang nga mga detalye kun ano ang mga aktibidad sini kag kun diin siya magabisita diri sa Pilipinas.
Tumandok siya sang Denmark kag amo ang nakakuha sang korona sang 73rd edition sang pageant nga ginpatigayon sa Mexico.
Matabo ang iya pagbisita samtang masako man ang preparasyon sang masobra 60 ka mga kandidata para sa Miss Universe Philippines nga ang koronasyon hiwaton sa Mayo 2.
Dance group sa Guimaras, itiglawas ang Pilipinas sa World Supremacy Battlegrounds sa Dubai, UAE
Natalana nga itiglawas sang isa ka dance group sa Western Visayas ang Pilipinas sa World Supremacy Battlegrounds sa Dubai, United Arab Emirates sa Hulyo 7 tubtob 13.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jonathan Yukie Igpuara, manager sang Fearless Street Company, iya ginpahayag nga dako ini nga kahigayunan agud mapakita sang grupo ang ila talento agud saksihan sang bilog nga kalibutan.
Suno kay Igpuara, sa subong, masako ang ila grupo sa preparasyon para sa ila mangin performance sa hiphop nga genre nga ila intrahan.
Magluwas diri, ginatinguhaan nila nga makatipon man sang pondo agud panggasto nila sa ila pagpadulong sa Dubai.
Nagapati naman ini nga masarangan sang ila grupo nga magmadinalag-on sa international stage.
Ginkumpirma sang long-time girlfriend ni Hajji Alejandro ang naglapta nga mga impormasyon nga naga-suprer ang OPM icon sang stage 4 colon cancer.
Suno kay Alynna Velasquez, nagpaidalom ang 70-anyos nga singer sa surgery, may naangkon nga infection kag gindala pa anay sa intensive care unit (ICU) bangud nagakalipong, apang naga-recover na ini subong sa ila balay.
Gin-ako man ni Velasquez nga ginbasol siya sang pamilya ni Hajji sa nagguwa nga reports kag videos nga yara pa sa ospital ang singer.
Pero nung naging critical si Hajji, I had to tell someone, I had to tell his best friend.” Pahayag pa sang girlfriend, siya man ang nagkuha sang video ni Hajji kag sang iya iloy sa ospital.
Bisan nabasulan, nagpasalamat si Velasquez bangud madamo nga tawo ang nagpangamuyo para sa recovery sang OPM icon.
Ginsaysay man sang nobya nga nagagamit subong si Hajji sang walker bangud ginatun-an sini liwat ang paghulag kag paglakat, apang wala man suno sa iya naapektuhan ang tingog kag memorya sang singer.
Kilala si Hajji bilang “Kilabot ng mga Kolehiyala” sang ’70s kag ’80s kag na-establisar bilang isa sa icons sa Philippine music industry.
Lakip sa iya major hits amo ang “Nakapagtataka”, ”Tag-Araw, Tag-Ulan” kag ang “Kay Ganda ng Ating Musika” nga amo ang nagpadaog sa iya sang grand prize sa 1978 Metropop music festival.#
Gal Gadot, nagpasalamat sa Walk of Fame star nga nabaton apisar sang mga protesta sa seremonya
Puno sang apresasyon kag kalipay ang “Wonder Woman” kag “Snow White” star nga si Gal Gadot matapos nabakaton sang star sa Hollywood Walk of Fame apisar pa nga madamo ang nagprotesta sa amo nga seremonya.
Ginpakigbahin sini ang mga laragway sa induction ceremony sa iya Instagram page nga suno sa iya indi niya malaragway ilabi na bangud nakabutang ang iya pangalan sa lugar nga ginapalibutan sang legends nga nag-inspire sa iya.
Gindugang sini nga ang Walk of Fame star ang nagarepresentar sang tinuig nga paghimakas, pagpalangga sa trabaho, kag wala-punaw nga pagpati sang mga tawo nga amo ang nagtib-ong sa iya.
Kaupod ni Gal sa event ang iya apat ka kabataan nga babaye edad 1, 3, 8, kag 13-anyos, kag iya bana nga si Jaron Varsano.
Nagpasalamat man ang aktres sa iya “Wonder Woman” director nga si Patty Jenkins kag sa iya “Fast & Furious” co-star nga si Vin Diesel nga nagkadto gid agud magsuporta sa iya.
Ang okasyon nga gintambungan sang aktres ang ginkadtuan man sang anti-Israeli kag pro-Palestinian protesters nga ginpatung-an naman sang mga pulis.
Ini bangud kilala ang 39-anyos nga Israeli actress nga nagasuporta sa pagpang-atake sang Israel sa Hamas sa Gaza.
Sa subong, isa sa proyekto ni Gal amo ang iya papel bilang evil queen sa Rachel Zegler-starrer nga “Snow White.”
Ang iya star amo ang ika-2,804 nga ginbutang sa Walk of Fame.
Alexie Brooks, nagpanguna sa video challenge sa 2025 Miss Eco International pageant
Nagpanguna ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Alexie Mae Brooks sa pre-arrival race nga parte sang 2025 Miss Eco International pageant.
Base sa anunsyo sang international pageant, nangibabaw ang Ilongga beauty queen sa Eco Tourism Video challenge na gin-conduct via YouTube.
Nagpangaduha naman ang delegate sang United Kingdom nga may yara man sang Filipino heritage, samtang pangatlo ang candidate sang Indonesia.
Patigayunon ang koronasyon sang 2025 Miss Eco International pageant sa Alexandria, Egypt sa Abril 8 kun sa diin iga-turn over ni Angelina Usanova sang Ukraine ang iya titulo sa iya mangin successor.
Si Brooks nga kilala man nga parte sang Philippine National Team sa Southeast Asian Games ang igapadala nga mag-compete sa global tilt matapos ini nakasulod sa Top 10 sang 2024 Miss Universe Philippines pageant.
Sa nagligad nga interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Brooks, ginpahayag sini nga paspas na ang ila preparasyon para ma-deliver ang best performance sa stage lakip na ang question-and-answer, runway performance, kag advocacy work nga naka-sentro sa women empowerment.
Beterana nga aktres nga si Delia Razon, nagtaliwan na
Ginkumpirma sang aktres nga si Carla Abellana nga nagtaliwan na ang iya Lola nga isa ka beterana nga aktres nga si Delia Razon.
Ang aktres nga kilala off-screen bilang si Lucy May G.
Reyes ang ginbawian sang kabuhi sa edad nga 94-anyos.
Base sa mga detalye nga gin-share ni Carla sang ginkumpirma sini ang masubo nga balita, nabun-ag si Delia sang Agusto 8, 1930 kag napatay naman sang Marso 15, 2025.
Prominente siya nga indibidwal sa Philippine cinema, kag kilala sa iya performances sa classic films.
Nangin kabahin siya sang pila ka iconic movies lakip ang Awit ng Bulag (1948), Gitano (1949), Mutya ng Pasig (1950), Florante at Laura (1950), Prinsipe Amante (1950) bilang si Prinsesa Elena kag ang sequel sini nga Prinsipe Amante sa Rubitanya (1951).
Sa Luksang Tagumpay, na-nominate siya bilang Best Actress sa 1957 FAMAS Awards.
Lakip naman sa iya pinakaulihi nga mga proyekto amo ang teleserye nga Tayong Dalawa sang 2009, kag ang pelikula nga Buenavista (Ang Kasaysayan ng Lucena) sang 2010.
Ginhatag man sa iya ang FAMAS Lifetime Achievement Award sang 2009.
ILOILO – Excited na ang tiglawas sang Iloilo Province sa patigayunon nga coronation sang Miss Universe Philippines 2025.
Ini amo si Angeline Cordero Kailani, tumandok sang Pototan, Iloilo.
Si Kailani ang nagpadulong sa London, England sang naga-edad pa lang ini sang pito ka tuig.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Kailani, iya ginpabugal nga itiglawas ang probinsya sa national stage.
Suno kay Kailani, single mom ang iya iloy nga isa ka nurse sa diin ini man ang nagtulod sa iya nga mangin isa ka nurse sa London, England.
Ang advocacy naman sini amo ang mental health awareness sa mga Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs).
Patigayunon ang coronation night sang Miss Universe Philippines sa Mayo 2, sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Tiglawas sang Iloilo City sa Miss Trans Global Philippines 2025, positibo nga madala pauli ang korona
ILOILO CITY – Positibo ang tiglawas sang Iloilo City nga madala pauli ang korona sa Miss Trans Global Philippines 2025.
Ini amo si Denver Tajanlangit sang Barangay Burgos Mabini, La Paz, Iloilo City kag anay reporter sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo.
Si Tajanlangit ang nagdaog bilang SOGIE (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, and Expression) Ambassador 2024.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Tajanlangit, iya ginpahayag nga bilang LGBTQ Ambassador, padayon niya nga iduso ang patas, inclusive kag empowerment sa syudad.
Suno kay Tajanlangit, nagalaom ini nga magdaog sa national pageant agud mas mapabaskog ang programa sa LGBTQ+ community.
Ang advocacy naman sini amo ang paghatag sa LGBTQ+ community sang patas nga kinamatarong kag oportunidad.
Patigayunon ang pageant sa Hulyo 2025 sa Baguio City.
Anay Ilonggo seaman, nangin madinalag-on sa musika kag pelikula
ILOILO – Isa ka anay Ilonggo seaman ang nangin madinalag-on nga nagbaliskad sang iya banas agud sundan ang iya handom sa musika kag pelikula.
Ini amo si Aleck Calata, sang Población Ilawod, Passi City.
Si Calata ang nagtapos bilang bilang honor student sa kurso nga Bachelor of Science in Marine Transportation sa John B.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Calata, iya ginpahayag nga antes nagsulod sa musika, nangin marino anay ini sa diin nakalayag na ini sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang kalibutan.
Apang sa pihak sang madinalag-on nga karera sa industriya sang maritime, wala niya ginbayaan ang hilig sa sining kag musika.
Si Calata ang isa na subong ka recording artist nga may duha ka mga kanta nga Ganito Ba Dapat?
Magluwas diri, aktibo man siya sa paghimo sang musika para sa pelikula bilang music supervisor sa grupo nga Cineastas A Vela, isa ka filmmaking team nga kinikilala indi lang sa Pilipinas kundi mangin sa iban nga pungsod.
Ang mga komposisyon naman sini nga Dalagan kag Singkal ang ginkilala man bilang Best Music kag Best Original Score sa Cinekasimanwa 6 kag 7.
Sa patag naman sang acting, gindala sini ang papel ni Humadapnon sa pelikula nga Sa Paglupad Ka Banog, nga nagdaog sang Golden Kinabalu Award for Best Indigenous Language Film sa 13th Kota Kinabalu International Film Festival 2022 sa Malaysia kag Best Short Film sa Gawad Urian 2023.
Bangud sa iya talento, ginkilala man siya bilang Philippine Young Achievers Awardee para sa 2024 kag 2025.
Miss Universe Philippines, nag-anunsyo na sang 2025 coronation date kag venue
Gin-anunsyo na sang Miss Universe Philippines organization ang coronation date kag venue para sa pageant subong nga tuig.
Balantayan ini sa Mayo 2, umpisa alas sais sang gab-i, sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Natalana naman nga ipaguwa ang dugang nga mga impormasyon kaangay sang ticket details.
69 ang mga kandidata subong nga tuig nga magapaindis-indis sa korona.
Lakip sa pamilyar nga mga nawong kag beterana na sa pageant stage amo sanday Miss Earth-Air 2023 Yllana Marie Aduana (Siniloan, Laguna), Reina Hispanoamericana 2017 Teresita Ssen “Winwyn” Marquez (Muntinlupa City), Miss Universe Philippines 2024 Second Runner up kag Miss International 2018 First Runner up Ahtisa Manalo (Quezon, Province), Miss Globe 2022 semi-finalist Chelsea Fernandez (Sultan Kudarat), kag Reina Hispanoamericana 2019 Fifth Runner up Katrina Llegado (Taguig City).
Nagatiglawas naman sang Iloilo City si Karen Nicole Piccio, samtang dala naman ni Angeline Cordero Kailani ang pangalan sang Iloilo Province.
Subong nga edisyon, bag-o naman ang national director nga amo si Ariela Arida.
Ang masunod nga winner amo ang magabulos kay Chelsea Manalo kag amo ang magadala sang hayahay sang Pilipinas sa 74th Miss Universe pageant sa Thailand sa Nobyembre 21.
Alexie Mae Brooks, may mga pasabog sa Miss Eco International pageant sa Egypt
Handa na ang Ilongga beauty queen nga tumandok sang Leon nga si Alexie Mae Caimoso Brooks sa iya pagtiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Miss Eco International 2025 pageant nga patigayunon sa Egypt sa Abril 8.
Sa ginpatigayon nga send-off, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ang iya preparasyon para sa pageant agud nga mahatag niya ang pinakamanami nga performance.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Brooks, iya ginsiling nga nag-focus siya sa training para sa interview ilabi na sa iya advocacy nga nagasentro sa women empowerment nga mas kilala sa tawag nga “Abanse Babaye.”
Pahayag pa niya, handa man siya mental kag emotional nga aspeto.
May yara man sang mga pasabog sila nga ginhanda sang iya team.
Dugang niya, gamiton gid niya ang mindset bilang isa ka atleta kag ini ang ginakabig niya nga bentaha para sa iya sa kompetisyon.
Ginahalad man niya ini nga journey para sa iya nagtaliwan na nga lola nga si Lola Basing kag amo man sa mga Ilonggo nga nagasuporta sa iya.
Sikat nga bokalista sa Mindanao nga si Elias, inspired sa pagkolekta sang tagok sang rubber tree ang iya dance moves
Gin-athag sang rising star sa Mindanao nga si Elias nga inspired sa pagkolekta sang tagok sang rubber tree ang iya dance moves.
Si Elias ang bokalista sang banda nga Kalumad kag naga-perform sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar sa Mindanao.
Siya ang nakilala bangud sa iya abilidad sa pagsaut kun sa diin may yara pa ini sang signature moves nga nanamian gid ang mga tumalan-aw.
Sa pihak sang naangkon sini nga popularidad, wala naman ginakabig ni Elias nga sikat siya.
Sa subong, handom niya nga maka-perform indi lang sa Pilipinas kundi sa gwa sang pungsod.
‘Mabuhay ang Pilipinas’ —Judy Ann Santos sa nabulsa nga bag-o nga international acting award
Tuman ang kalipay sang beterana nga aktres nga si Judy Ann Santos sa nabaton sini nga pagkilala bilang Best Actress sa 2025 Fantasporto International Film Festival sa Portugal.
Kasunod ini sang iya gintungdan nga papel sa horror film nga “Espantaho”.
Una nga ginpasalamatan ni Juday ang jury ukon ang Fantasporto sa amo nga international acting award.
Ginsiling sini nga daku nga bugal sa iya nga itiglawas ang iya pungsod Pilipinas.
Gin-share sini ang kadalag-an sa iya bana nga si Ryan Agoncillo (nga yara mismo naga-cheer para sa iya sa event), kag sa ila tatlo ka mga kabataan.
Thank you,” kabahin sang iya nga acceptance speech.
Gin-dedikar man sini ang award sa director sang pelikula nga si Chito S.
Roño kag sa tanan nga tawo nga yara sa likod sang amo nga horror film.
Hindi naman ako makakarating dito kung hindi kayo ang kasama ko.
… Mabuhay ang Pilipinas!,” dugang sang award-winning actress.
Ikaapat si Juday nga Pilipino nga nakadala-pauli sang amo nga award halin sa Portuguese film festival nga nagasentro sa science fiction, fantasy kag horror movies.
Nadag-an man ini anay ni Barbie Forteza sa 2016 film nga “Laut”; Ian Veneracion sang 2018 sa “Ilawod” ; kag Cristine Reyes sang 2020 sa “UnTrue.”
Ang “Espantaho” ang isa sa official entries sa 2024 Metro Manila Film Festival kun sa diin si Juday man ang ginkilala sang award-giving body nga Best Actress.
Kasado na ang former child star nga si Bugoy Cariño sa iya long-time partner nga si EJ Laure.
Ginpatigayon ang church wedding sa Tagaytay, kahapon, Marso 9, matapos ang ila engagement sadtong Septyembre 2023.
Lakip sa mga nagtambong sa selebrasyon amo ang teammates ni EJ halin sa Nxled Chameleons.
Matandaan nga 2018 sang nagbiya sa limelight si Bugoy sa tunga sang mga espekulasyon nga napabusong sini ang iya girlfriend.
Sang amo nga tion, naga-edad ini sang 16-anyos samtang 21 anyos naman si EJ.
Pila ka tuig sini nga gin-enjoy ang kabuhi sa guwa sang entertainment industry, tubtub nga sang nag-edad na si Bugoy sang 18-anyos sang 2020, ginpakilala na ang ila bata nga si Scarlet.
Nag-umpisa man ang couple sang YouTube channel kag nagsulod sa online selling business.
Kilala naman si EJ nga former University of Santo Tomas star nga nagsaylo halin sa Chery Tiggo pakadto sa Nxled.
Kamatayon ni Gene Hackman kag sang iya asawa, wala sang foul play —medical examiner
Ginklaro sang awtoridad nga wala sang foul play sa kamatayon sang Oscar-winning actor nga si Gene Hackman kag iya asawa nga si Miss Betsy Hackman.
Ini nga kumpirmasyon ang opisyal nga nagatakop sang masobra isa ka semana nga espekulasyon kun ano ang natabo sa duha antes sila nasapwan nga patay na kaupod sa ila nga ido sa ila balay sa New Mexico, USA.
Ginpahayag nga ang rason namna sa kamatayon sang 65-anyos nga misis amo ang hantavirus, pulmonary syndrome nga daw isa ka flu-like disease nga mahimo magresulta sa kabudlay sa pagginhawa kag cardiac ukon heart failure kag lung failure.
Nagguwa man sa test nga wala sang sign of trauma sa lawas sang duha, kag wala man sang indikasyon nga ginhiluan sila apisar nga ini ang una nagguwa sa espekulasyon sang publiko.
Base sa otoridad, posible nga Pebrero 11 pa napatay ang misis, samtang Pebrero 18 naman napatay ang actor kun basehan ang iya last activities sa balay.
Magluwas sa napatay nga mag-asawa, nasapwan man nga patay ang ila nga ido sa bathroom, samtang may duha ka iban pa nga healthy dogs nga yara sa balay.
Nahibaluan nga bantog si Hackman nga duha ka beses nakadaog sa Academy Awards ukon Oscars.
Ini ang amo ang Best Actor award sa iya papel sa 1971 thriller nga The French Connection, kag award man sa best supporting actor sa Western film nga Unforgiven sang 1992.
Natungdan niya ang masobra 100 ka mga papel sa mga pelikula antes siya nag-retiro sa industriya sa Hollywood.
‘Baby, mahal na mahal kita’: Chito Miranda, Neri Naig, nag-renew sang ila wedding vows
Napuno sang emosyon ang selebrasyon sang 10th wedding anniversary sang celebrity couple nga sanday Chito Miranda kag Neri Naig.
Ginselebrar ini paagi sa pag-renew sang ila wedding vows kun sa diin kabahin sang entourage ang ila kabataan nga sanday Pia, Miggy, kag Cash.
Disyembre 2024 pa ang orihinal gid nga anibersaryo sang ila kasal, naatrasar, apang suno sa vocalist sang Parokya ni Edgar, ang importante amo nga nadayon, kag wala man sila nagadali.
“Dahil sa ‘yo at sa mga anak natin, naunawaan ko ang tunay na ibig sabihin ng pagmamahal.”
“I’m not going anywhere, at habambuhay naman tayo magsasama.
Hinding-hindi kita papabayaan,” kabahin sang gin-post ni Chito.
Ginhimo ini nga selebrasyon pila ka adlaw matapos ginlimpyuhan sang korte ang pangalan ni Neri matapos ginpasakaan sang kaso nga syndicated estafa kag violations sang Securities Regulation Code.
Matandaan nga gindakop ang actress-entrepreneur sadtong 2024 apang nagdepensa si Chito nga endorser gid lamang ang iya asawa sa involved nga kumpaniya nga Dermacare kag gingamit lamang ang nawong sini agud nga mang-engganyo sang mga investor.
98-anyos nga amay ni Angel Locsin, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 98-anyos ang amay ni Angel Locsin nga si Angel M.
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya pamilya kadungan sang pag-request sang privacy sa tion sang ila nga kalisod.
Nagpasalamat man ang pamilya sa mga nagpadala sang mensahe sang pagpalangga kag simpatiya subong nga mabudlay nga tinion.
Rest in Peace Lolo Budi,” kabahin sang pagkumpirma ni Bago City, Negros Occidental Councilor Joseph Colmenares nga paryente sang natungdan.
Kabahin anay si Colmenares sang Philippine team nga nagdaog sang bronze medal sa 4×200-meter freestyle relay sa 1954 Asian Games nga ginpatigayon diri sa Pilipinas.
Ini nga swimming skills ang ginpasa man niya sa anak nga aktres tubtub nga nag-compete man ini sa national kag international age-group meet sa bata pa nga edad.
Binibining Pilipinas 2025 pageant, nagabaton na sang applicants
“The Search is On” para sa masunod nga Binibining Pilipinas queens!
Gin-anunsyo sang pageant organizers nga nagabaton na sila sang application para sa 2025 national pageant umpisa kahapon, Marso 5, kag magalawig tubtub sa Marso 21.
Mahimo ma-download ang form halin sa Binibining Pilipinas website kag sarang mapasa ang na-fill out nga documents sa Binibining Pilipinas Charities, Inc.
61 ka tuig na ang Binibining Pilipinas kag amo ang ginakabig nga longest-running national beauty pageant.
Nakahimo sang pangalan ang Pilipinas bilang most successful Asian country sa Miss Universe kag Miss International pageants bangud man sa Binibining Pilipinas.
Lima ang na-produce sini nga Miss International winners lakip sanday Aurora Pijuan, Melanie Marquez, Precious Lara Quigaman, Bea Rose Santiago, kag Kylie Verzosa.
Apat naman ang Miss Universe winners nga sanday Gloria Diaz, Margie Moran, Pia Wurtzbach, kag Catriona Gray antes ginsaylo ang national franchise sa Miss Universe Philippines nga subong ginapangunahan na sang former titleholder nga si 2013 Binibining Pilipinas Ariella Arida.
Isa man ka Miss Supranational winner ang produkto sang Bb.
Pilipinas nga si Mutya Datul samtang sanday Ann Colis kag Maureen Montagne ang nagdala pauli sang The Miss Globe crowns.
Duha naman ang Miss Intercontinental winners nga sanday Karen Gallman kag Cinderella Faye Obeñita.
Chito Miranda, dako ang pagpasalamat nga natinluan ang pangalan sang iya asawa nga si Neri
Nagpabutyag sang iya dako nga pagpasalamat ang Parokya ni Edgar frontman nga si Chito Miranda matapos nga na-dismiss ang kaso ginapangatubang sang asawa nga si Neri Naig-Miranda.
Kahapon sang ginmando sang Pasay City RTC Branch 112 ang dismissal sang syndicated estafa complaint batok kay Neri.
Matandaan nga sang 2024 sang gin-aresto ang aktres may kaangtanan sa kaso nga estafa kag alleged violation sang Securities Regulation Code.
Suno kay Miranda, wala gid ginpabay-an sang Diyos ang iya asawa kag madamo man nga mga tawo ang nagsuporta samtang ginapangatubang ang kaso.
Dugang ni Chito,nahibaluan sang mga tawo nga kilala ang iya asawa kun ano ini kaayo kag masaligan magluwas pa nga isa ini ka hardworking nga iloy.
‘Fake news!’: Raquel Pempengco, nagsabat sa bashers kasunod sang pagguwa sang libro ni Jake Zyrus
Sunod-sunod ang mga pababati-bati ni Raquel Pempengco matapos naglapta online ang kaundan sang libro sang iya anak nga si Jake Zyrus ukon mas kilala anay nga si Charice Pempengco.
2018 sang gin-publish ang memoir nga “I am Jake” kun sa diin gin-plastar sang singer ang iya mga naagyan halin sang bata pa siya tubtub nga nag-out bilang miyembro sang LGBTQIA+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual) community sang June 2013.
Lakip sa sensitibo nga bagay nga ginbulgar sini amo ang pagpangmolestiya sang iya kaugalingon nga tiyo nga nag-umpisa sang naga-edad pa lamang siya sang anum ka tuig.
Wala sang nakahibalo sang nagakatabo nga sulit-sulit nga sexual abuse ilabi na kun kaupod nila ini sa balay sang iya nga Lola.
I was wrong,” kabahin sang nakasulat sa libro.
15 ka tuig pa ang nagligad sang natubuan sang kaisog si Jake nga magpanugid sa iya nga iloy, apang suno sa iya, gin-akigan siya sini, kag mas ginpatihan ang iya nga tiyo.
Bisan 2018 pa napaguwa ang libro, subong lang ini nasapakan matapos may nag-upload sang content sini online.
Madamo ang nag-simpatiya kay Jake kag may nagsiling pa nga nahangpan na kun ngaa si Jake na subong si Charice.
May iban pa nga ginbasol si Raquel nga sa amo nga libro gintawag man ni Jake nga “evil queen” kag “abusive mother.”
Ginbulgar man sini nga nakaagi siya sang physical kag emotional abuse, kag naghimo pa ang iya iloy sang peke nga mga account agud nga magpadala sang hate messages sang nagdesisyon siya nga mag-out na bilang miyembro sang LGBTQ+ community.
Ginsiling naman ni Raquel nga fake news ang mga nagalapta subong kag butigon suno sa iya ang nagapalapta sang impormasyon.
Gindugang pa sini nga indi na updated ang isyu nga ini, kag siya na lang ang magasugpon sa libro.
Abangan niyo, ako ang mag-uupdate ng libro na yan.
Sari sari na lang issue niyo,” suno kay Raquel sa Facebook apang wala man sini direkta nga ginpangalanan ang libro.
Baka magulat kayo kapag ako ang nagkwento.
May separado pa gid ini nga post nga nagasiling, “Kwento niyo ‘yan, malamang masama ako diyan.
Tanggap ko na ang pangalan kong evil queen.
Basta ako, alam ko ang sarili kong kwento pero di ko na isasalibro dahil ayoko nang may mapasama at madagdagan ang mga evil.”
Nahibaluan nga si Raquel amo man anay ang former manager ni Jake.
Patigayunon na 8:00 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas ang 97th Oscars ukon ang Academy Awards nga amo ang pinakamataas nga pagkilala sa industriya sang pelikula.
Balantayan ang pila sa pinakadaku nga pangalan sa Hollywood sa star-studded kag red-carpet ceremony sa Dolby Theatre sa Ovation Hollywood sa Los Angeles, California, United States.
Sa lista sang nominees, nagapanguna ang Spanish-language French musical crime comedy film nga Emilia Pérez nga may 13 nominations; ang epic period drama film nga The Brutalist nga may 10; kag ang musical fantasy film nga Wicked nga may 10 man ka mga nominasyon lakip na ang 1st Oscar nod para kay Ariana Grande sa Best Supporting Actress.
Yara man sa line-up sang presenters sanday Gal Gadot, Andrew Garfield, Selena Gomez, Oprah Winfrey, Joe Alwyn, kag madamo nga iban pa nga celebrities.
Magaabot man sa seremonya ang nakakuha sa pinakamataas nga acting awards sang nagligad nga tuig nga amo sanday Emma Stone, Robert Downey Jr., Cillian Murphy, kag Da’Vine Joy Randolph.
Subong nga tuig, wala sang bisan isa sa 10 ka best picture contenders ang gin-shoot sa Los Angeles apisar nga ini ang ginakabig nga puluy-an sang pinakadalagku nga film companies sa masobra na isa ka siglo.
Ini nga seremonya ang isa man sa una nga pinakadaku nga hiwaton sa Los Angeles matapos ang natabo nga lapnagon nga wildfires sang Enero nga nangin rason man kun ngaa duha ka beses nga nakanselar ang Academy Awards.
Ginalauman nga mahambalan man ang wildfires sa sini nga event, direkta man ukon paagi sa tema, kag makahatag man sang donasyon ang viewers sa programa.
50-anyos nga babaye nga naghalok kay Jin sang BTS nga wala sang permiso, ginpatawag sang pulis
Ginpatawag sang mga pulis sa South Korea ang isa ka babaye nga naghalok kay Jin nga miyembro sang K-pop supergroup nga BTS.
Suno sa Songpa police station sa Seoul, gin-request nila ang babaye nga magpalapit para nga pamangkuton kaangot sa alegasyon sang sexual harassment.
Wala na ginpaguwa sang police station ang identity sang babaye bangud sa privacy, apang may mga impormasyon halin sa media reports nga naga-edad ini sang 50-anyos kag halin pa sa Japan, apang nagapamalibad nga magkadto sa Korean police.
Ginlunsar sang pulis ang imbestigasyon matapos nakabaton sang online complaint.
Matandaan nga isa ka adlaw matapos natapos ni Jin ang iya mandatory 18-month military service sadtong Hunyo 2024, ginselebrar sini ang iya discharge kag ang 11 year anniversary sang band paagi sa pag-offer sang free hugs sa iya fans sa isa ka event sa Seoul.
Sa amo nga event nga ginreport nga gintambungan sang 1,000 ka mga tawo, may isa ka babaye nga naghalok kay Jin bisan nga wala sang pahanugot.
Ginsulat pa sang babaye sa iya online blog ang amo nga eksperyensya.
His skin was so soft,” suno sa gin-quote sang Yonhap news agency.
Na-establisar ang BTS sang 2013 kag may yara sang global supporters nga ginatawag nga “Army.”
Si Jin, 32, amo ang oldest member sang amo nga supergroup kag una nga nakatapos sa military duty.
Ang isa ka pa miyembro nga si J-Hope ang natapos naman sa serbisyo sang Oktubre, samtang ang nabilin naman nga members nga sanday V, RM, Jimin, Jungkook, kag Suga ang yara pa gihapon sa military service.
Oscar-winning actor Gene Hackman, iya asawa, kag ido, nasapwan-patay sa sulod sang ila puluy-an
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi sa sulod sang ila puluy-an sa New Mexico, USA ang beterano nga aktor nga si Gene Hackman, 95, iya asawa nga si Betsy Arakawa, 63, kag ang ila isa ka ido.
Base kay Santa Fe County Sheriff Adan Mendoza, wala sang immediate indication nga may natabo nga foul play.
Wala pa sang dugang nga detalye nga gin-release ang pulis kaangot sa rason sang ila nga kamatayon.
Kilala si Hackman nga nakadaog sang duha ka Academy Awards sa violent 1971 drug saga nga “The French Connection” kag 1992 western “Unforgiven”.
Isa siya ka former Marine nga nakit-an sa masobra 80 ka mga pelikula amo man sa telebisyon kag sa entablado sa malawig nga karera nga nagsugod sadtong 1960s.
Lima ka beses siya nga na-nominate sa Oscars bangud sa iya abilidad sa pag-arte, lakip na ang pagdala sang papel sang villain, hero, kag anti-hero sa dramas, comedies, kag action films tubtub sa iya early retirement sang early 2000s.
May tatlo siya ka kabataan sa una niya nga asawa.
Ginkasal siya kay Arakawa nga isa ka pianist sadtong 1991.
Ginkumpirma sang New York Police Department ang kamatayon sang 39-anyos nga American actress nga si Michelle Trachtenberg.
Nakit-an siya sang iya iloy nga wala na sang kabuhi sa sulod sang iya apartment sa amo nga state sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Ginpahayag nga bag-o lang ini nakapaidalom sa liver transplant kag posible nga nag-eksperyensya sang complications.
Ginalantaw man nga nagtaliwan ini bangud sa natural causes kag wala sang ginasuspetsahan nga foul play apang may patigayunon sa gihapon nga autopsy.
Nangin kilala siya bilang child star sang 1990s kag 2000s lakip sa television series nga “The Adventure of Pete & Pete” kag ang film nga “Harriet the Spy.”
Nangin big break niya ang “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” bilang si Dawn Summers nga nag-ere halin sadtong 2000-2003.
Ang amo nga papel ang naghatag sa iya sang Teen Choice Award nomination for choice TV sidekick sang 2001.
Nakit-an man siya sa mga pelikula nga EuroTrip, Ice Princess, Killing Kennedy, kag Sister Cities.
Kris Aquino, naghimo sang iya first public appearance matapos ang malawig nga showbiz break
Sa pinakauna nga kahigayunan, nagpakita sa publiko ang TV host /actress nga si Kris Aquino.
Ini matapos ang iya malawig nga break sa showbiz.
Nagtambong si Kris agud suportahan ang iya abyan nga designer nga si Michael Leyva, nga isa sa mga awardees sa PeopleAsia’s Awards Night.
Kaupod man ni Kris sa event ang iya anak nga si Bimby kag tatlo sini ka mga doktor.
Nahibaluan nga nagpadulong si Kris sa United States sang 2022 agud magpabulong matapos gin-diagnose nga may pito ka autoimmune diseases.
Nagbalik ini sa Pilipinas sang Setyembre 2024.
Bombo International Correspondent Dee Donasco, kalakip sa cast sang pelikula ni Nicole Kidman
Kabahin sang cast sang Hollywood movie nga ginabidahan ni Nicole Kidman si Bombo International Correspondent Dee Donasco.
Ini amo ang pelikula nga Holland nga isa ka thriller film nga nasentro sa istorya sang isa ka manunudlo sa Michigan nga may yara sang makabig picture-perfect life apang sang ulihi, isa ka sekreto ang ila nga nadiskubrehan, isa ka murder mystery.
Si Donasco ang nagaisahanon nga Ilongga kag Pinay nga parte sang pelikula.
Natalana naman ang screening sang pelikula sa Marso 27 kun sa diin ang premier sini ang patigayunon sa Austin, Texas sa isa ka film festival.
Roberta Flack nga nagkanta sang ‘Killing Me Softly With His Song’, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na ang legendary American singer-songwriter, pianist, kag Grammy winner nga si Roberta Flack sa edad nga 88-anyos.
Siya ang matahum nga tingog sa likod sang sultry ballads nga “The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face” kag “Killing Me Softly With His Song” nga nagpanguna sa charts sadtong 1970s.
Ang iya kamatayon ang ginkumpirma sang iya publicist nga si Elaine Schock sa isa ka statement.
She was also a proud educator,” kabahin sang pahayag.
Madumduman nga ang Nobyembre 2022, ginkumpirma sang African American singer nga na-diagnose siya nga may ALS ukon Lou Gehrig’s disease kag indi na makakanta.
Ang amyotrophic lateral sclerosis isa ka progressive illness nga nagaepekto sa nerve cells kag naga-resulta sang paralysis kag kamatayon.
Kilala si Roberta nga wala lamang nagtinir sa isa ka musical genre kundi gin-blend sini ang jazz, soul, pop kag R&B para makahimo sang distinctive style tubtub nga ginkilala bilang isa sa most influential singers sang Amerika.
Apat ka Grammys ang iya nadag-an kag ginhatagan man sang Lifetime Achievement Award sang 2020.
Siya ang labing-una nga artista sa maragtas nga nakadaog sang duha ka magkasunod nga Record of the Year trophies paagi sa “First Time I Ever Saw Your Face” sang 1973 kag “Killing Me Softly with His Song” sang 1974.
Kilala man siya sa iban nga hits kaangay sang “Feel Like Makin’ Love” kag “Tonight I Celebrate My Love” nga isa ka duet kaupod kay Peabo Bryson.
‘Sunshine’ nga ginabidahan ni Maris Racal, nagdaog sang Crystal Bear award sa Berlinale 2025
Nakuha sang pelikula ni Maris Racal nga “Sunshine” ang Crystal Bear award sa 75th Berlin International Film Festival ukon ang Berlinale 2025.
Ginahatag ang Crystal Bear sa Best Feature Film sa mga kategorya nga Generation Kplus kag Generation 14plus competitions.
Base sa statement sang jury, nangibabaw para sa ila ini nga sports drama bangud sa “sensitive view” sa “modern and socially critical topic” kag naghatag man sang strong message.
Antes ang debut sa Berlin, Germany, natigayon man ang world premiere sang Sunshine sa Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) sang nagligad nga tuig, kag sa Palm Springs Film Festival subong nga 2025.
Sa idalom sang direksyon ni Antoinette Jadaone, ang “Sunshine” nagalakip man sa iban nga mga artista kaangay kanday Elijah Canlas, Xyriel Manabat, Annika Co kag Jennica Garcia.
Ahtisa, Winwyn, Yllana, lakip sa first hot picks sang Missosology sa Miss Universe PH 2025
Ginpaguwa na sang Missosology ang ila first hot picks para sa palaabuton nga Miss Universe Philippines 2025 pageant.
Sa latest post, nanguna sa lista si Tyra Goldman sang Bohol, ginasundan ni Katrina Llegado sang Taguig, kag Jarina Kumari Sandhu sang Isabela.
Sulod man sa Top 5 si Yllana Aduana sang Siniloan, Laguna kag si Ahtisa Manalo sang Quezon Province.
Ang iban pa nga beauty queens nga yara sa Top 20 list amo si Chelsea Fernandez sang Sultan Kudarat nga pang-pito; si Eloisa Jauod sang Laguna nga pang-walo; kag si Winwyn Marquez sang Muntinlupa nga pang-10.
Nahibaluan nga 68 ka mga kandidata na lang ang naga-compete para sa korona subong nga tuig matapos nga nag-atras na ang kandidata sang Filipino community sa Los Angeles, California nga si Hanna Michelle Gilmore.
Ang magadaog subong nga tuig amo ang koronahan ni Miss Universe Philippines 2024 kag reigning Miss Universe Asia Chelsea Manalo.
Amo man ini nga winner ang magatiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Miss Universe 2025 sa Nobyembre 21 sa Impact Muong Thong Thani Arena sa Bangkok, Thailand.
Jam Ignacio, nag-sorry sa iya fiancée nga si Jellie Aw, naghingyo nga dayunon ang kasal
Nagpangayo sang pasaylo si Jam Ignacio sa fiancée sini nga si Jellie Aw pila ka adlaw matapos halos napuno sang lagob ang itsura sang babaye bangud sa iya pagpangastigo.
Nag-sorry man ang lalaki sa ginikanan, mga pamilya, kag abyan ni Jellie kag nagpahayag nga nagahinulsol siya sa iya nga nahimo.
“Sa mga kapatid, sa mga kaibigan, ito, dito ako, haharap sa inyo.
Humaharap na humihingi ng taus-puso na sorry, sorry, sobrang sorry.
Alam niyo yan na mahal na mahal ko si Jellie,” pahayag sini.
Paathag niya, napuno lang siya sang amo nga adlaw bangud sa ila indi paghangpanay nga nagdugang pa sa iya kakapoy.
“Sa simpleng hindi pagkakaunawaan and siguro, may halo na rin sigurong pagod sa maghapon na lakad namin.
E, kumbaga, tao lang din siguro ako… baka napuno lang din siguro ako.
Na hindi ko sinasabi na tama, pero hindi ko… hindi ko para i-tolerate na gawin ulit.
Humihingi ako ng tawad, pasensiya na talaga.
Sorry, sorry, sorry sa lahat,” suno sa natungdan.
Nagpasalig si Jam nga indi na niya ini pagsuliton, kag nagpangabay man sa babaye nga dayunon ang ila nga kasal.
Ginpahanumdom pa sini kay Jellie ang ila pagpalanggaanay.
“Hon, alam mo yan kung gaano kita kamahal.
Sa lahat ng ginagawa mo, lagi ako nakasuporta sa yo.
Sa lahat ng gusto mong gawin sa buhay, nakasuporta ako palagi sa yo.
Naghingyo ini nga tumanon ang ila handum kag mga plano, bangud amo lang ini ang gusto niya pakasalan.
“Alam mo na gusto ko ikaw na yung makasama ko talaga.
Alam mo yan na may plano tayo na bumuo ng pamilya.
Tuparin natin, hon, nagmamakaawa ko sa yo.
Una na nga nagpahayag si Jellie nga handa siya nga patawaron si Jam, apang dapat gid ini manabat sa iya ginhimo.
Ginkumpirma man sang National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) nga nag-isyu na ini sang subpoena batok sa lalaki.
Sini nga Pebrero sang nagdangop si Jellie sa NBI bangud sa sobra-sobra nga injuries nga naangkon sini lakip na ang paghabok sang mata, na-dusngal ang bibig, kag madamo man sang lagob sa nawong.
Nagpaandam ini nga ipapreso gid ang 38-anyos nga lalaki matapos natabo ang pagpang-abuso samtang yara sila sa sulod sang salakyan.
Nahibaluan nga antes si Jellie, ang ka-relasyon ni Jam amo ang 50-anyos nga TV host-actress kag iloy ni Daniel Padilla nga si Karla Estrada.
Nangin sila sang Hunyo 2019 apang nagbulagay sang Hulyo 2024.
Wala magdugay matapos ang amo nga break-up, nangin girlfriend ni Jam si Jellie.
Sang Nobyembre 2024, apat ka bulan matapos nangin magkarelasyon, ginkumpirma ang ila nga engagement.
Kilala si Jellie bilang resident DJ sa tatlo ka go-to night-clubs sa Metro Manila kag ginkilala man sang EDMdroid Asia bilang isa sa World s Sexiest DJs sang 2020.
Isa pa ka Pinay singer, agaw-atensyon ang audition performance sa ‘The Voice USA’
Duha ka bulan matapos ang maragtason nga kadalag-an sang Pinoy singer nga si Sofronio Vasquez sa “The Voice USA”, may isa na naman ka Pinay singer ang nagtilaw sang iya kapalaran sa amo nga kompetisyon kag napa-impress ang mga coaches.
Inj amo si Jessica Manalo nga nagkanta sang “Unholy” ni Sam Smith kun sa diin sa apat ka coaches, duha ang nag-agaway sa iya nga amo sanday Michael Bublé kag Kelsea Ballerini.
Si Bublé amo ang coach ni Vasquez sang nagdaug ini bilang grand champion sang season 26 sang Disyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
Naghimo si Sofronio sang maragtas bilang pinakauna nga lalaki nga Asyano kag Pinoy nga nagdaug sa amo nga international singing competition.
Matapos nga naglab-ot sa million ang views sa audition ni Manalo, nagpasalamat naman ini sa suporta nga iya nabaton.
Sa subong, wala pa mahibaluan kun sin-o nga coach ang ginpili ni Manalo bangud sa masunod nga episode pa ini iga-anunsyo.
Kris Aquino, balik-trabaho na apisar sang ginasuprer nga autoimmune diseases
Bisan pa may anum ka autoimmune diseases, nagbalik sa trabaho ang ginakilala Queen of All Media nga si Kris Aquino.
Suno ini sa writer-editor kag iya suod nga abyan nga si Dindo-Balares.
Apang dugang sini, maluya pa gihapon si Kris, gani ang isa ka adlaw nga trabaho ang katumbas man sang tatlo ka adlaw nga bed rest.
Sinubukan niya the other day,” suno kay Balares.
Wala na ini nagdugang sang detalye sa kahimtangan sang aktres kag sa upcoming project sini.
“Baka masabihan na naman ako ng, ‘Kung minsan daldal ka rin, Kuya Dindo,'” lahog sini.
Una na nga ginsapubliko ni Kris nga may palaabuton siya nga show kun sa diin makit-an sang viewers ang iya reality, amo man si Bimb, ang iya best friends nga ginakabig niya nga extended family, kag iya mga doctor nga nangin mga abyan naman subong.
Nagselebrar si Kris sang iya ika-54 nga kaadlawan sang Valentine’s Day.
Kaupod sini sa special day ang iya nga mga anak nga sanday Josh kag Bimb, kag kaupod man ang iya celebrity friends.
September 2024 sang nagpauli si Kris sa Pilipinas matapos duha ka tuig man nga nagtinir sa United States para nga mapabulong ang iya multiple autoimmune conditions.
Ginsapubliko sini nga tatlo sa sini nga kondisyon ang makabig nga life-threatening: Churg-Strauss syndrome, systemic sclerosis, kag lupus.
South Korean actress nga si Kim Sae-ron, nasapwan-patay sa iya puluy-an sa Seoul
Nasapwan nga wala na sang kabuhi sa iya puluy-an sa Seongdong District, eastern Seoul, ang 24-anyos nga South Korean actress nga si Kim Sae-ron.
Nadiskubrehan si Kim sang alas 4:54 sang hapon sang isa ka abyan nga may plano nga makigkita sa iya.
Nag-abot ang mga opisyales sang Seoul Seongdong Police Precinct sa balay ni Kim matapos makabaton sang report halin sa iya abyan nga nagtawag sa ila matapos nga wala nag-abot ang aktres sa ila natalana nga pagsinapol.
Ginpahayag sang mga opisyal sang pulisya nga wala sila sang nakita nga senyales sang foul play apang padayon ang ila imbestigasyon sa mga sirkumstansya sa palibot sang iya kamatayon.
Si Kim nangin bantog bilang isa ka young actress, nga nakakuha sang pagkilala sa iya mga papel sa mga pelikula pareho sang Hi!
Sang nagligad nga mga tinuig, nag-atubang siya sang kontrobersiya kasunod sang insidente sang pagmaneho nga hubog sang 2022.
Ariella Arida, bag-o nga national director sang Miss Universe Philippines
Ginpakilala sang Miss Universe Philippines organization ang bag-o sini nga national director nga si Ariella Arida.
Natabo ang announcement kadungan sang press presentation sang 69 ka mga kandidata sa subong nga tuig.
Pahayag sang beauty queen, nakahibalo siya kun ano ka daku ang iya bag-o nga responsibilidad, apang gindugang sini nga halin pa lang sa umpisa, nagalantaw na siya, naka-istorya sa mga kandidata, kag involved na sa mga aktibidad sang pageant.
Siya ang nagtiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Miss Universe 2013 kag nangin third runner-up.
Sa presentasyon sang mga kandidata sa Makati kahapon, napuno ang venue sang mga indibidwal halin sa Filipino pageant community, media, MUPH team, kag queens kaangay kanday Miss Universe 2011 3rd runner up Shamcey Supsup, Miss Universe Asia 2024 Chelsea Manalo kag Miss Universe Philippines 2022 Celeste Cortesi.
Exciting ang kumpetisyon subong nga tuig nga kumbinasyon sang bag-o nga mga nawong kag beterana na sa pageant stage.
Lakip sa titleholders nga maga-compete amo sanday Yllana Marie Aduana, Teresita Ssen “Winwyn” Marquez, kag Ma.
Ahtisa Manalo, Chelsea Fernandez, Chanel Olive Thomas, Katrina Llegado, kag iban pa.
Si 2019 Miss Philippines-Ecotourism Karen Nicole Piccio amo naman ang magatiglawas sang Iloilo City.
Ang koronahan nga kandidata amo ang magadala sang pangalan sang Pilipinas sa global stage sa Thailand sa Nobyembre.
Ulihi nga nag-host ang Bangkok sang 2018 kun sa diin nakuha sang Filipina beauty queen nga si Catriona Gray ang titulo.
Yari ang 69 beauty queens nga magapaindis-indis para makuha ang titulo nga Miss Universe Philippines 2025:
Ang magadaog nga kandidata amo ang magatiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Miss Universe 2025 pageant sa Nobyembre 21 sa Impact Muong Thong Thani Arena sa Bangkok, Thailand.
Ulihi nga nag-host ang Bangkok sang 2018.
Ginkoronahan sang amo nga tion ang Filipina beauty queen nga si Catriona Gray.
Beterana nga komedyante nga si Matutina, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 78-anyos ang beterana nga komedyante nga si Evelyn Bontogon-Guerrero ukon mas kilala bilang si Matutina.
Santo sa kumpirmasyon sang pamilya, ginbawian ini sang kabuhi bangud sa acute respiratory failure.
Kilala si Matutina sa industriya bilang isa sa bantog nga cast members sang “John en Marsha” kaupod sanday Dolphy kag Nida Blanca nga gin-ere sadtong 1973 tubtub 1990.
Magluwas diri nga hit show, nakit-an man siya sa nagkalain-lain nga TV programs kaangay sang “At Your Service, Matutina,” “Ang Inyong Lingkod Matutina,” “Dancing Master 2,” kag “Kapag Baboy Ang Inutang.”
Napakigbahin man sini anay sang nagligad nga tuig nga may ginasuprer ini nga osteoporosis kag halos isa ka dekada na nga nagapaidalom sa dialysis.
Ahtisa Manalo, magaintra liwat sa Miss Universe Philippines
Labi pa gid nga na-excite ang mga pageant fans para sa Miss Universe Philippines 2025 nga ginabansagan subong nga “Puksaan” edition.
Ini matapos nga nakit-an ang pageant veteran nga sio Athisa Manalo sa ginpatigayon nga Miss Universe Philippines contract signing sa Makati, kahapon.
Si Manalo, nga amo ang reigning The Miss Philippines-Cosmo 2024, ang kaupod sang iban nga 2025 MUPH delegates sa venue.
Mismo ang isa ka insider halin sa Miss Universe Philippines Organization (MUPH) ang nag-confirm nga ang entrepreneur halin sa Quezon Province ang present sa contract signing event, kag liwat nga magaintra sa national pageant.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nag-intra si Manalo sa MUPH 2024 kag nagtapos ini nga third sa finals kun sa diin nakuha ni Chelsea Manalo ang titulo.
Sunod nga ginhatagan si Ahtisa sang iya national title bilang The Miss Philippines-Cosmo 2024 kag gintiglawas ang Pilipinas sa first edition sang Vietnam-based Miss Cosmo pageant.
Madumduman nga nag-compete man si Manalo kaupod kay 2018 Miss Universe Catriona Gray sa Binibining Pilipinas pageant kun sa diin nakuha niya ang Bb.
Pilipinas international title kag nangin 1st runner-up naman sa Miss International 2018.
Sa subong, indi pa maathag kun ano matabo sa iya The Miss Philippines-Cosmo title bangud sa liwat niya nga pag-intra sa Miss Universe Philippines pageant.
Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray, madinalag-on nga nakatipon sang pondo para sa iya advocacy nga nagabulig sa mga kabataan
Anom ka tuig humalin sang natapos ang iya reign bilang Miss Universe, ginagamit sa gihapon ni Catriona Gray ang iya nga platform agud suportahan ang mga advocacies nga malapit sa iya tagipusuon.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw, gin-anunsyo sang former beauty queen nga madinalag-on ini nga nakatipon sang pondo para sa cleft charity nga Smile Train.
Ginpasalamatan niya ang iya mga abyan kag fans sa pagbulig agud makatipon siya sang P250,000, nga gamiton niya para sa cleft care sa mga Filipino nga kabataan.
Gin-engganyo man niya ang iya social media followers nga magbulig man sa ano man nga pamaagi.
Kilala ang Miss Universe 2018 titleholder bangud sa iya efforts para sa madamo nga charities.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, ginhiwat niya ang iya pinakauna nga Legacy Ball agud magtipon sang pondo para sa Young Focus, isa ka non-government organization nga para sa mga underprivileged nga mga pamatan-on.
‘It was may destiny’: Dia Mate, ‘on cloud nine’ pa sa iya pagdaog bilang Reina Hispanoamericana 2025
Tuman ang pagpasalamat sang Filipina beauty queen nga si Dia Mate sa iya mga taga-suporta matapos nga ginkoronahan ini bilang Reina Hispanoamericana 2025.
Ini ang pangaduha nga titulo sang Pilipinas sa amo nga pageant kasunod sang una nga nakuha ni Winwyn Marquez sang 2017.
Suno sa 22-anyos nga singer-songwriter, wala siya naghaum nga magdaog sa kumpetisyon apang nagsalig siya sa destiny matapos ang anum ka bulan nga preparasyon.
Ginpakigbahin sini nga gab-i antes ang koronasyon, naga-send pa siya sang videos sa iya coach nga si Miss Grand International 2024 runner-up CJ Opiaza para nga malantaw ang iya nga pasarela.
Magluwas sa iya triple turns kag stunning pasarela, isa pa ka standout moment kay Mate amo ang pagkanta sini sang Selena classic nga “Como La Flor” sa swimsuit competition.
Nagpasalamat ini sa oportunidad nga mapakita ang iya talent ilabi na bangud suno sa iya, first home sini ang music.
Tatlo ka semana ini nga yara sa Boliva para maenad sa kultura, lenggwahe, kag iban pa antes ang kumpetisyon.
Bag-o nakuha ang korona, si Mate man ang ginhingadlan nga Best in National Costume.
Ang iya runners-up sa kumpetisyon amo sanday:
‘I’m still human’: ‘Friend’ ni Philmar Alipayo, nangabay nga untaton ang pag-bash sa iya
Nagpaguwa na sang iya statement ang “friend” ni Philmar Alipayo nga nangin sentro man sang atensyon bangud sa ginaalegar nga pagbulagay sang champion surfer kag sang iya partner nga si Andi Eigenmann.
Suno kay Pernilla Sjoö nga isa ka Swedish underwater photographer, dapat nga untaton na ang pag-bash sa iya.
Pahayag sini, indi siya makahangop kun ngaa tuman ang kaugot sang tawo sa iya.
Kuntani suno sa iya, makatulog ang bashers sang maayo bisan nakahibalo sila nga may tawo nga indi mahim-os kag indi makapahuway bangud sa ila mga pagpang-atake.
Nag-apelar man ini nga kuntani mangin makatawo man sa isa kag isa.
Nabukaran ang involvement ni Pernilla sa isyu nanday Andi kag Philmar matapos nakit-an nga nag-post ini sang ila picture sang surfer.
Pareho sila nga may “224” tattoos nga nagakahulugan nga “Today, Tomorrow, Forever”.
Sa statement sang nagligad ni Andi, ginsiling sini nga wala nagluib si Philmar, apang gin-akusaran sini ang wala sini ginhingadlan nga babaye nga amo ang nagtraidor sa iya.
Indi maathag kun ano ang status sang relasyon nanday Andi kag Philmar, apang kun basehan ang statement ni Philmar, nagsiling ini sang nagligad nga semana nga mahimo na siya matawag sang publiko nga cheater kag malaw-ay.
Engaged sanday Philmar kag Andi halin sang 2020, may duha na ka mga bata, kag kalaslon na kuntani sang 2024 apang wala nadayon bangud napatay ang iloy ni Andi nga si Jaclyn Jose.
Paano bala maka-move on sa maluib nga relasyon?
Ginakabig nga mabudlay nga proseso ang pag-atubang sa isyu sa pagpangluib sa isa ka relasyon.
Ini ang kaangot man sa natabo nga pagbulagay sang actress nga si Andi Eigenmann kag sa bana sini nga si Philmar Alipayo bangud sa Swedish nga babaye nga ginatudlo third party sa ila relasyon.
Francis Ray Subong, registered guidance counselor, iya ginpahayag nga wala sang insakto nga formula kun paano ini atubangon, apang may mga pamaagi nga mahimo himuon agud mag-ayo kag makadesisyon kun ano ang masunod nga tikang.
Suno kay Subong, tuman nga maapektuhan sa tion nga may yara sang nasambit nga isyu amo ang psychological, social kag emotional nga aspeto sang isa ka indibidwal.
Panugyan sini, agud maka-move on, nagakadapat nga pabay-an ang kaugalingon nga makabatyag sang emosyon kag batunon nga ini ang normal.
Makabulig man ang suporta sang pamilya, mga abyan ukon isa ka therapist agud mabuligan nga magproseso sang emosyon kag makadesisyon sang insakto.
Sa tion nga handa na, makig-istorya sa inyo partner agud mahibalunan ang rason sang pagpangluib.
Ginpahayag sang natungdan nga ang maayo nga komunikasyon ang makabulig agud makuha ang sabat nga kinahanglan agud makadesisyon.
Thailand, naga-preparar na sa pag-host sang 2025 Miss Universe pageant
Nagahanda na ang Thailand matapos napilian nga mangin host para sa 2025 edition sang Miss Universe.
Gin-anunsyo ini sang The Miss Universe Organization matapos ang ginpaguwa nga teaser nga ginpilian man sini ang Spain, Costa Rica, Nigeria, Dominican Republic, South Africa, kag Pilipinas.
Ini na ang pang-apat nga tion nga ang “The Land of Smiles” ang maga-host sa sini nga global pageant.
Home country man sini sang isa sa co-owners sang MUO nga si Anne Jakrajutatip sang JKN Global Group.
2018 sang katapusan nga nag-host ang Thailand sa Miss Universe competition kun sa diin ang ginkoronahan amo si Catriona Gray sang Pilipinas.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, ginpatigayon ang pageant sa Mexico nga amo ang home country naman sang isa pa ka co-owner sa MUO nga si Raul Rocha sang Legacy Holdings Group nga naangkon ang katunga sang organisasyon sang nagligad nga tuig.
Sa subong padayon pa ang pagpangita para sa Miss Universe delegate sang Pilipinas kag halos kumpleto na ang roster of candidates.
Lakip sa pinakaulihi nga nagdugang amo ang OG Latina slayer, beauty-queen actress nga si Winwyn Marquez nga magatiglawas sang Muntinlupa City.
32-anyos na si Winwyn kag may duha ka tuig nga bata nga babaye apang sulod gihapon sa pageant bangud wala na sang restrictions nga ginhatag ang organisasyon.
Nadag-an sini ang Reina Hispanoamericana title sang 2017 kag amo man ang first Asian woman nga nakakuha sang amo nga distinction.
Pagkatapos nahatag ang bugal sa pungsod, nakit-an man siya sa television shows kaangay sang “Owe My Love” sang 2022, “My Liham ni Urduja” sang 2023 kag ang “Lilet Matias: Attorney-at-Law” nga nagapadayon pa subong.
Palaban man ang pambato sang Taguig City nga amo ang pageant veteran nga si Katrina Llegado.
Gintiglawas man sini anay ang Taguig sa Miss Universe Philippines 2022 kag nag-represent man sang Pilipinas sa Reina Hispanoamerica 2019 kun sa diin nagtapos ini bilang fifth runner-up.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, ang nagtiglawas sang Pilipinas amo si Chelsea Manalo nga nakasulod sa Top 30, nangin labing-una nga recipient sang Miss Universe Asia title, kag nakuha man ang Best in National Costume award.
WVSU 2025, ginpakigbahin ang istorya sa likod sang ila korona; Mr.
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Wala sang katupong nga kalipay ang nabatyagan sang bag-o ginkoronahan nga Mr.
Ini amo sanday Hyle David Daduya kag Michelle Anne Juanitas, lunsay naghalin sa College of Nursing.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Michelle Anne, 3rd year Bachelor of Science in Nursing student, kag tumandok sang Barbaza, Antique, iya ginpahayag nga bata pa lang siya mahiligon na siya magpasakop sa mga pageant.
Ang pinakaulihi sini nga pageant nga ginpasakupan antes ang Ms.
WVSU 2025 amo ang Lin-ay Kang Antique 2023 sa diin nakuha man sini ang korona.
Suno kay Michelle Anne, madugay sini nga ginprerahan ang pagpasakop sa Ms.
WVSU, gani amo na lang kalangkag nga nagbunga ang ila pagtinguha nga makuha ang titulo.
Magluwas sa extra-curricular activities, ginatutukan sini ang iya pagtuon sa diin handom sini nga mangin isa ka Registered Nurse.
Suno naman kay Hyle David, 4th year Bachelor of Science in Nursing student, residente sang Tagbak, Jaro, Iloilo City, ginakabig sini nga isa sa pinakamasadya nga hitabo sa iya kabuhi ang pagdaog bilang Mr.
Gin-ako man sini nga tuman ang pressure sa iya bahin nga makuha ang korona sa diin sila ikatatlo na sila nga sunod-sunod nga batch sa ila kolehiyo nga nagdaog sa pageant.
Ginpahayag sini nga nangin inspirasyon man sini sa pagpasakop sa pageant ang iya magulang nga si Hans Gabriel Daduya nga ginkoronahan bilang Mr.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Hans Gabriel, iya ginpahayag nga siya ang pinakauna nga myembro sang ila pamilya nga nakaangkon sang korona matapos nagdaog bilang Mr.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nakuha man sang nila ni Stella Maris Lapay nga halin man sa College of Engineering ang korona sa Mr.
Suno kay Hans Gabriel, wala ini sang anuman nga experience sa pageant gani amo na lang ang iya kalipay matapos nakuha ang korona sa diin ginahalad niya ini sa iya pamilya kag mga abyan nga nagsuporta gid sa iya.
Ginpahayag sini nga ginapabugal man sini ang iya manghod nga si Hyle David nga nagsunod man sa iya tapak sa pageantry kag nakuha ang korona sa Mr.
Sa subong, si Hans Gabriel ang isa na ka software engineer kag web developer.
Boxing legend Manny Pacquiao is joining Netflix’s intense competition reality series, Physical: Asia,” kabahin sang gin-post sang Netflix sa TikTok video sang nag-abot na ang people’s champ sa Incheon International Airport.
Sharon Cuneta, napa-wow ang mga fans sa iya “balik alindog”
Napa-wow ang mga fans sang megastar nga si Sharon Cuneta matapos ginpakita ang resulta sang iya balik-alindog program.
Sa iya post, gintuad niya nga nabuhinan siya sang 15 pounds sa iya weight loss journey agud ma- achieve ang iya fitness goal subong nga tuig.
Sa gin-share niya nga video sa Instagram, makit-an nga nagakanta ini sang ambahanon nga “Ikaw” bilang birthday gift sa iya Tita Cherrie Pie Lazatin nga ginakabig niya nga iloy.
Gin-ako naman sang aktres nga tuman ka budlay man ang iya nine-year fitness journey.
Suno sa iya, nagdesisyon siya nga magbuhin sang bug-at sang 2016.
Humalin sadto, gina-document niya ang iya weight loss milestones.
Sang 2023, gin-ako niya ng nagpaidalom siya sa surgery agud kuhaon ang excess nga panit sa iya lawas matapos nabuhinan ini ang pila ka pounds.
Naghatag sang tribute ang anay Meteor Garden megastar lead nga si Jerry Yan ukon si Dao Ming Si kasunod sang kamatayon sang iya in-show love interest nga si Barbie Hsu ukon mas kilala nga si Shan Cai.
Sa translated version sang mensahe ni Jerry Yan, nagpasalamat ini nga nakilala sini si Barbie.
Ginbalikan man sini ang mas bata nga bersyon sang Barbie nga suno sa iya ‘carefree’ kag kaangay nga nagakabuhi nga daw amo na ini ang iya katapusan nga adlaw sa kalibutan.
Nag-wish man ini nga wala na sang mangin problema si Barbie kag mangin malinong na ini sa pihak nga kinabuhi.
Isa ini ka 27-episode series nga nangin tuman ka madinalag-on rason sang 4-episode supplementary series nga may tig-ulo nga Meteor Rain kag 31-episode sequel nga Meteor Garden II.
Ini nga phenomenal reach amo man ang isa sa mga rason sa pagsikat sang Asian telenovelas.
Kahapon sang aga, Pebrero 3, sang ginkumpirma ang kamatayon ni Barbie sa edad nga 48-anyos.
Ginbawian ini sang kabuhi bangud sa pneumonia nga resulta sang influenza nga iya naangkon sang nagbyahe sa Japan para sa Lunar New Year festivities.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginkumpirma naman sang pamilya ni Barbie nga ginaproseso na subong ang funeral arrangements para sa popular nga aktres.
Nag-desisyon man ang pamilya nga i-cremate ini sa Japan antes dal-on pauli sa Taiwan para sa memorial service.
Bangud sa kamatayon sang aktres, nailo sa iloy ang iya duha ka kabataan nga naga-edad tatlo ka tuig kag pito ka tuig.
Madamo naman nga Pinoy fans ang nagpadala sang mensahe sang simpatiya kag nagpasalamat kay ‘Shan Cai’ nga nangin parte siya sang maduagon nga childhood sang kadam-an ilabi na sang millennials.#
“Shan Cai” sang Meteor Garden, nagtaliwan na bangud sa pneumonia
Nagtaliwan na ang Taiwanese actress nga si Barbie Hsu sa edad nga 48.
Nakilala si Barbie sa iya iconic role nga “Shan Cai” sa 2001 hit drama nga Meteor Garden.
Ang pagtaliwan ni Barbie ang ginkumpirma sang iya pamilya pinaagi sa iya manghod nga si Taiwanese host Dee Hsu.
Napatay si Barbie bangud sa pneumonia tuga sang flu sang Lunar New Year holiday.
Nailo naman ni Barbie ang iya bana nga si South Korean husband — singer and DJ Koo Jun-yup.
May 10 ka tuig man ini nga anak nga babaye kag walo ka tuig nga anak nga lalaki sa iya ex-husband nga si Chinese businessman Wang Xiaofei.
May panibag-o nga pabati-bati ang komedyante nga si Ai-ai delas Alas nga ginapatihan sang fans nga palabtik para sa iya estranged husband nga si Gerald Sibayan.
Wala ini ginhingadlan ni Ai-ai, apang nagsiling siya nga may isa ka cheater nga nagbakal sang singsing nga para sa engagement apisar nga indi pa man ini divorced sa iya nga asawa.
May caption man ang post sini nga: “Sabi ng mga soldiers… Sana OL… pagkaksyahin ko sa leeg nya.”
Sang nagligad nga semana, may yara man ini sang gin-post nga “cheater” kag gin-alegar nga Pinay ang mistress sini.
Gin-alegar nga spotted ang “cheater” kag ang mistress sadtong Marso kag Hunyo 2024 didto sa California, United States.
Daku ang posibilidad suno sa fans nga si Gerald ang mystery cheater sa posts ni Ai-ai, bangud naako man anay sang aktres nga nagluib ini sa iya sang naga-updanay pa sila.
Wala sang statement nga ginpaguwa si Gerald apisar sini nga isyu.
30 ka tuig ang age gap nanday Ai-ai kag Gerald.
Lima ka tuig ang nagligad, nagkadto sila sa United States para ma-renew ang ila vows, apang gin-anunsyo nga bulagay na sila sang Nobyembre 2024.
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Wala sang katupong nga kalipay ang nabatyagan sang alumnus kag part time teacher sang Iloilo Science and Technology University (ISAT U) matapos nagdaog sa prestihiyoso nga TernoCon 2025.
Ini amo si Peter Gagula nga kilala bilang si ‘Peach Garde’, tumandok sang Tapaz, Capiz.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Garde, iya ginpahayag nga tuig 2017 sang nag-upod ini sa seminar workshop kag sang 2018, nag-umpisa na ang fashion show nga TernoCon.
Ang TernoCon ang isa ka nationwide competition sang mga “terno” sang nagkalain-lain nga mga fashion designers sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Garde, nag-apply ini sa TernoCon 2020 kag 2023, apang wala ini nabaton.
Sang 2024, nagbukas liwat ang competition kag amo na lang ang kalipay sini nga nabaton na ini.
Sa ginpatigayon nga culminating cultural show sang Enero 26, 2025, si Garde ang nakakuha sang grand prize nga Pacita Longos Award.
Nagpanguna si Garde sa 12 tanan nga mga finalists sa diin apisar nga naghalin ini sa probinsya, ginpakita sini nga masarangan sini nga magpangibabaw sa kompetisyon.
Ang iya collection ang nagapakita sang 20th-century Philippine visual arts paagi sa tatlo ka distinct pieces: isa ka formal terno nga may pañuelo, isa ka formal Balintawak nga may alampay kag tapis, kag isa ka formal Kimona nga naga-feature sang butterfly sleeves nga may alampay kag patadyong.
Ginahalad naman ni Garde ang iya kadalag-an sa iya nagtaliwan nga iloy, partner, mentors kag mga estudyante sa ISAT U.
Pia Wurtzbach, nagsabat sa basher nga naga-‘manifest’ nga bulagan siya sang iya bana
Nagsabat si Miss Universe 2015 Pia Wurtzbach sa masakit nga direct message nga iya nabaton halin sa isa ka netizen nga naga-wish nga bulagan siya sang iya bana kag mangin isa siya ka single mother.
Gin-screenshot ni Pia ang mensahe kun sa diin mabasahan ang message sang netizen nga naga-akusar kay Pia nga indi maka-afford sang unique design sang luxury brand nga Hermes.
Nagsiling man ini nga nagalaum siya nga mangin divorced si Pia sa iya bana nga si Jeremy Jauncey, pero hirit pa sini, mas maayo kun magbusong anay si Pia para nga isa ini ka single mother.
Pahayag sang beauty queen, makakalapoy man kag masakit ini nga mensahe nga iya mabaton.
Nagpanawagan man ini sa followers nga indi pag-i-normalize ang mga amo sini nga batasan sa social media.
Gin-engganyo man sini ang iban nga magbag-o na bangud bag-ong tuig na.
Sang nagligad nga bulan, gin-anunsyo ni Pia nga indi ini magkadto sa Paris Fashion Week nga ginpatigayon sang Enero 27-30.
Sang 2024, nangin produktibo ang tuig para sa model-influencer bangud nalakip ini sa nakit-an sa runways kag sa prestihiyoso nga fashion shows kaangay sa Milan, Paris kag New York.
Nagpang-18 siya sa listahan sang most visible fashion influencers of the year matapos nakapagkit sang $38.4 million sa earned media value (EMV) kag 1.1 percent average engagement rate.
Nakalinya ang iya pangalan sa international celebrities kaangay kanday Jisoo kag Rosé sang Blackpink, Kim Kardashian, Cha Eun-woo kag Kendall Jenner.
Sang amo man nga tuig, siya ang ginhingadlan nga top influencer sang Milan Fashion Week Spring/Summer 2025 womenswear edition.
Nakabaton man siya anay sang Global Fashion Influencer of the Year award sa Dubai.
‘Sosyal Climbers’: Maris Racal, Anthony Jennings, bida sa bag-o nga Netflix movie
Gin-anunsyo nga maga-updanay sa panibag-o nga Netflix romantic comedy film sanday Maris Racal kag Anthony Jennings.
Ang upcoming film ang may tig-ulo nga ‘Sosyal Climbers’ kag natalana nga ipaguwa sa Pebrero 27, 2025.
Dal-on sang duha ang papel sang magkarelasyon nga involved sa pagpang-scam sa manggaranon nga mga tawo.
Base sa trailer nga gin-release Enero 30, nagpakuno-kuno sila nga manggaranon agud nga maka-upod sa social circles sang ila manggaranon nga mga kasilingan, nagtambong sa tuman ka mahal nga mga party, kag gingamit ang amo nga mga kahigayunan agud makapangwarta.
Isa ini sa duha ka proyekto nanday Maris kag Anthony matapos ginbuyagyag sang ex-girlfriend ni Anthony nga si Jam Villanueva sang Disyembre 2024 ang ila ginhimo nga ginaalegar nga pagpangluib.
Pareho na nga nakahimo sang statement ang aktres kag ang actor kasunod sang amo nga isyu.
Makit-an man subong ang duha bilang sanday Gab kag Tom sa action series nga Incognito.
Sa tunga sang mga kontrobersiya, may kanta man nga gin-release si Maris nga may tig-ulo nga “Perpektong Tao” nga nahanungod sa iya healing journey.
Una nga nakilala ang “MaThon” bilang sanday Snoop kag Irene sa Netflix series nga Can’t Buy Me Love kaupod ang loveteam nga DonBelle nga ginabug-usan nanday Donny Pangilinan kag Belle Mariano.#
Ginsaylo sa Marso 4-7 ang schedule para sa pagpatigayon sang ikaduha nga Manila International Film Festival (MIFF).
Orihinal kuntani ini nga patigayunon sa Enero 30-Pebrero 2 apang ginpaiway anay bangud sa wildfires sa Southern California.
Ginkumpirma man sang organizers nga ang pors yon sang proceeds halin sa events lakip na sa screenings ang iga-donar para sa fire relief efforts sa Los Angeles.
Sa pagkamatuod suno sa MIFF, ang tanan nila nga events ang may yara sang fundraising aspect.
Diri itanyag ang libre nga admission sa first responders sa sunog amo man sa ila nga immediate families.
Ang “A Tribute Dinner to Our First Responders” nga amo ang closing night ceremonies amo naman ang magapadungog sa mga tawo nga nagbulig tapna sa wildfires.
Karla Estrada, nanindugan nga bunga sang pagpalangga ang pag-angkon sang 4 ka mga anak nga lain-lain ang tatay
Nanindugan ang aktres nga si Karla Estrada nga bunga sang paghigugma ang pag-angkon niya sang apat ka kabataan nga lain-lain ang mga amay.
Suno sa iya, tinuig man ang pag-updanay nila sang kada isa sa nangin karelasyon niya nga nagtapos gihapon sa pagbulagay.
Pahayag ni Karla nga apisar gusto man niya nga isa lang ang iya partner, wala siya sang sarang mahimo kun indi na gid man maayo ang dalagan sang kada lalaki nga iya nakarelasyon sang una nga nangin mga amay sang iya anak.
Dugang niya, sa mga nangin amay sang iya mga anak, indi magnubo sa tatlo ka tuig ang ila relasyon gani masiling niya nga bunga gid sang paghigugma ang iya kabataan.
JK Labajo in Dinagyang: City Council, mapasar sang resolution nga nagamandu kay Labajo nga mag-sorry
Pabor si Iloilo City Councilor Ely Estante nga magpasar sang resolution ang Sangguniang Panlungsod nga nagamandu sa singer nga si JK Labajo nga maghimo sang public apology bangud sa pag-translate sini sa Hiligaynon sang tinaga nga nagapamuyayaw nga kabahin sang iya hit song nga “Ere”.
Ang session sang City Council ang hiwaton bwas nga adlaw, Enero 30, sa diin ginapaabot man ang pag-deliver sang privilege speech ni City Councilor Alan Zaldivar nahanungod sa singer.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Councilor Estante, iya ginpahayag nga nagakadapat nga magpangayo sang pasaylo ang singer, sa video man ina ukon pinaagi sa sulat nga i-post sa iya social media.
Una nga ginpahayag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Trenas nga indi niya pag i-tolerate ang ginapahayag pagpamuyayaw sang singer nga nagkanta sa concert kadungan sang selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival 2025.
Suno kay Estante, indi nagakabagay ang amo nga tinaga nga ihambal sa atubang sang madamo nga tawo ilabi na nga ang Dinagyang isa ka religious festival nga nagapasidungog kay Señor Sto.
Dugang niya, mas maayo man nga magplastar ang syudad sang mga guidelines sa mga performers nga magabisita sa Iloilo City agud indi na ini matabo liwat.
Miss Charm Philippines 2025 Cyrille Payumo, nag-sorry matapos ginsuksok ang gown ni Catriona Gray
Nagpangayo sang pasaylo si Miss Charm Philippines 2025 Cyrille Payumo sa mga tawo nga wala nagustuhan ang ginhimo niya nga pagsuksok sang iconic farewell gown ni Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray para sa isa ka pageant event.
Ginsuksok ni Payumo ang “Reflection” gown ni Catriona nga ginhimo sang Filipino designer nga si Mak Tumang sa Miss Universe Philippines-Pampanga finals night sang Sabado.
Madamo ang naugot nga fans sa pagpati nga exclusive lamang ang gown kay Catriona.
Sa iya Instagram post, ginsiling ni Payumo nga si Tumang ang nag-sponsor sang iya nga gown kag ginkabig niya nga dako nga kahigayunan kag dungog nga masuksok ang amo nga gown.
Matapos nangayo sang pasaylo, madamo naman nga beauty queens kag supporters niya ang nagsiling nga wala siya sang rason agud mag-sorry kag ang dapat basulon amo ang toxic nga pageant fans.
Wala pa sang comment si Catriona sa amo nga isyu.
Pagpasalamat, pagpangayo sang pasaylo, kag pagpabilin sang pagtuo sa Diyos.
Amo ini ang kaundan sang emosyonal nga mensahe sang 37-anyos nga actress-vlogger nga si Alex Gonzaga para sa iya bana nga si Lipa City Councilor Mikee Morada matapos ginsapubliko sang mister nga nahulugan ang aktres sa ikatatlo na nga tion.
Sa iya recent YouTube video, gin-detalye ni Alex ang iya birthday celebration sang Enero 16 lakip na ang family dinner kag pagbisita sa Lipa City Hospital agud nga maghatag sang donasyon sa mga iloy kag sa ila mga lapsag.
Didto man sa video nahibaluan nga antes ang birthday ni Alex, na-ospital ini sang Enero 9.
Sa iya mensahe sini, ginsiling sini kay Mikee nga bisan nadula sa ila ang ila ‘little miracle’, magapadayon sila sa pagpati bangud sa bulig sang Ginuo, maangkon gid nila ang pamilya nga ila ginapangamuyo.
May separado man nga Instagram post kun sa diin makit-an si Mikee nga nagasaot samtang yara sa hospital bed ang iya asawa.
Disyembre 28 sang ginpahibalo kanday Alex kag Mikee nga wala nagmadinalag-on ang pagdala sang aktres bangud nadulaan ini sang heartbeat.
Antes sini, nahulugan man si Alex sang 2021 kag 2023.
Bisan masakit suno kay Mikee, ginakabig nila ini nga eksperyensya nga amo ang nagapabaskog sang ila relasyon bilang mag-asawa.
Na-engage ang duha sang January 2020 kag nagpakasal sadtong November 2021.
Celebrities, naghatag sang tribute sa film icon nga si Gloria Romero
Nagbubo ang mensahe sang kasubo halin sa mga personalidad sang Philippine entertainment industry kasunod sang kamatayon sang ginakabig nga original ‘Queen of Philippine Cinema’ nga si Gloria Romero.
Lakip sa nagkadto sa una nga gab-i sang haya amo ang veteran actress nga si Helen Gamboa, sanday Ai-Ai delas Alas, Barbara Perez, Tirso Cruz III, Gina de Venecia, Eric Quizon, Ricky Reyes, Celia Rodriguez, Boots Anson Roa Rodrigo, kag iban pa.
91-anyos si Gloria sang ginbawian sang kabuhi.
Nabun-ag ang nasambit nga showbiz royalty sa Denver, Colorado sang Dec.
Sa iya bilog nga karera sa showbiz, nakit-an ini sa 250 movies and television shows kag nagpanglakaak gid ang abilidad sa screens ilabi na sa “Golden Age of Philippine Cinema” sang 1950s.
Nangin kilala siya sa mga pelikula nga Dalagang Ilocana (1954), Sino Ang May Sala (1957), kag Paru-Parong Bukid (1958).
Pagkasunod nga dinekada, nagdugang pa ang pagtaas sang iya nalab-utan sa entertainment industry paagi sa Nagbabagang Luha (1988) kag Tanging Yaman (2000).
Ulihi siya nga nakit-an sa Rainbow’s Sunset nga Best Picture sa 2018 Metro Manila Film Festival.
Sang amo nga tion, siya man ang Best Actress awardee sa iya performance sa LGBT-themed family drama kun sa diin kaupod sini ang late movie and theater legends nga sanday Eddie Garcia kag Tony Mabesa.
Patigayunon ang funeral sa aktres sa Arlington Memorial Chapel sa Quezon City.
Subong nga adlaw tubtub buwas, pagatugutan sang pamilya ang public viewing.
Lea Salonga, pasidunggan sa 91st Drama League Awards sa New York
Kilalahon ang Tony Award-winning actress kag Filipina Broadway star nga si Lea Salonga sa 91st Annual Drama League Awards sa New York City.
Isa ka celebrated figure si Lea sa theater community indi lamang sa Pilipinas kundi mangin sa luwas sa pungsod.
Natabo ang iya Broadway debut sang 1991 nga amo man ang tuig sa iya Tony-winning performance bilang Kim sa Miss Saigon.
Diri sa awards ceremony, ginaselebrar ang kaangay sini nga outstanding achievements sa teatro.
Dugang sa sini nga pagkilala, balantayan man si Lea sa highly anticipated spring 2025 transfer sang Stephen Sondheim revue nga Old Friends .
Magabalik man siya bilang The Witch sa upcoming production sang Theatre Group Asia sang Into the Woods nga maga-premiere sa August sa Performing Arts Theater sa Pilipinas.
Ini ang una nga role ni Lea sa iya pagbalik sa Philippine musical stage matapos ang anum ka tuig man nga pagpahuway.
‘Emilia Perez’, nagapanguna sa may pinakadamo nga nominasyon sa 97th Oscars
Gin-anunsyo na sang Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ang nominees sa 97th Academy Awards ukon ang Oscars matapos duha ka beses nga naatrasar bangud sa wildfires sa Los Angeles, California, USA.
Nagapanguna sa numero sang nominasyon ang transgender cartel musical nga “Emilia Perez”.
Ang pag-nominate sa ila sa 13 categories ang nag-set man sang record bilang most nominated foreign film sa Oscars history nga nagguba sang record sang Roma sang 2019 kag Crouching Tiger kag Hidden Dragon sang 2001 nga lunsay nakabaton sang 10 nominations.
Lakip sa posible nga madag-an sang Mexico-set musical nga mga kategorya amo ang best picture, cinematography, sound, editing, picture, visual effects kag best song.
Si Karla Sofia Gascon halin sa amo nga film ang gin-nominate man sa Best Actress award kag amo ang una nga transgender person nga na-nominate sa acting prize sa maragtas sang Oscars.
Wala naman nadala sa nominations ang ila mas bantog nga co-star nga si Selena Gomez nga nakabaton sang kritisismo bangud sa iya Spanish-language dialogue.
Ang lead actresses sini nga sanday Cynthia Erivo kag Ariana Grande ang may tyansa man nga madala pauli ang best actress and supporting actress awards.
Balantayan ang pag-anunsyo sang winners sa live kag televised ceremony halin sa Hollywood sa Marso 2.
‘Indi ta ka maagwanta’: Jake Ejercito, magabalik sa Iloilo City para sa Dinagyang Festival
Magabalik sa Iloilo City si Jake Ejercito kaupod sa iban pa nga mga artista kadungan sang selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival 2025.
Lakip si Jake sa caravan sa Mandurriao sa Enero 26, alas kuatro sa hapon.
Indi ta ka maagwanta, kaya babalikan kita agad this Sunday!,” suno sa actor.
Yara man ang loveteam nanday Donny Pangilinan kag Belle Mariano kaupod ang content creator nga si Esnyr nga lunsay yara sa series nga “How To Spot A Red Flag.”
Matandaan nga ginbansagan na si Jake bilang “langga” sang mga Ilonggo netizens kasunod sa iya pagpasakop sa Dinagyang Marathon sang Domingo kag paglibot sa syudad agud nga tilawan ang mga pagkaon nga ginapabugal sang Iloilo bilang naga-isahanon nga UNESCO Creative City of Gastronomy sa Pilipinas.
Nagalaum gid ko nga makabalik ko liwat sa dasig lang nga tion.
Pero buot gid ako nga magpakita ka na gid sa masunod, ok?
Imo palangga, Uno,” kabahin sang post ni Jake sang nagbiya ini sa Iloilo sang Enero 20.#
Enzo Pineda, ginkilala nga Best Actor sa 11th Emirates Film Festival
Nadag-an sini ang award paagi sa iya performance sa “As the Call, So the Echo”.
Ang writer kag diretor sini amo si Rusty Palacio Guarin nga amo man ang ginpasidunggan bilang Best Director sa festival.
Sa pelikula, gintungdan ni Enzo ang papel sang pamilyado nga lalaki nga nagatutok sa underground work sang sindikato nga nagapang-kidnap sang kabataan kag nagabaligya sang ila organs.
Ginpatigayon ang filming sa Quezon City kag nagatuyo sa pagpasakop sa mga international festival.
Suno sa award-winning actor, ang iya bag-o nga award ang naga-inspire sa iya nga maghimo pa sang dugang nga dekalidad nga mga pelikula para sa international release.
Ini ang una nga international acting award ni Enzo matapos sini nadag-an ang Best Supporting Actor sa 2021 FAMAS sa iya performance sa “He Who is Without Sin.”
Wala pa sang plano sa local screening sa “As the Call, So the Echo” apang ginpahayag sang actor nga magabisita ang iya Dubai-based producer sa Manila sa Marso para sa private screening sang film.
Maroon 5, maga-perform liwat sa Pilipinas
Nagpabutyag ang Maroon 5 lead vocalist nga si Adam Levine sang iya excitement para sa ila upcoming tour sa Pilipinas sa Enero 29 sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City.
Suno kay Adam, nanamian gid siya mag-perform sa PIlipinas kag gintawag pa ang mga Pinoy nga best fans.
Suno sa singer-songwriter, ginapasiguro nila nga mangin memorable gid ini nga concert para sa ila Pinoy supporters nga magalantaw sang show.
Matandaan nga sang 2022, nag-perform man ang Maroon 5 kag nag- enjoy sa pagpamati sa pag-sing along sang mga Pinoy sa ila hit songs.
Senado, ginpasidunggan si Sofronio Vasquez matapos nagkampyon sa The Voice US
Ginpasidunggan sa Senado ang Pinoy singer nga si Sofronio Vasquez matapos nagkampyon sa American reality singing competition nga “The Voice.”
Siya ang una nga Filipino kag Asian nga nagpangibabaw sa amo nga kumpetisyon sa sulod sang 26 ka seasons.
Sa Senate plenary session, naghimo sang manipestasyon si Senator Joel Villanueva agud ma-congratulate ang Misamis Oriental-born singer.
Pagpakita ini suno kay Villanueva kun ano ka-talented ang mga Pilipino.
“Paulit-ulit mong napatunayan na sa bawat pagtatanghal, hindi po siya basta-basta umaawit — ibinubuhos po niya ang kanyang puso at sarili sa bawat kanta,” dugang sang senador.
“Higit sa lahat, patunay ang iyong tagumpay na world class talaga ang Pinoy.
Dahil sa’yo, mas tumaas pa ang respeto ng buong mundo sa mga OFWs at migranteng Pilipino.”
Kabahin si Vasquez sang team sang Canadian balladeer kag Grammy-winning artist nga si Michael Buble kag nagpabilib gid anay sa audience sa finale sang iya rendition sang “Unstoppable” ni Sia kag “A Million Dreams” halin sa musical film nga “The Greatest Showman.”
Antes sa Senado, nag-courtesy visit man ini kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Miss Supranational 2025, patigayunon sa Hunyo 9-28 sa Poland
Ginsapubliko na sang Miss Supranational Organization ang staging date kag venues para sa international pageant.
Matabo ang “2025 Experience” halin sa Huny 9-28 sa Malopolska, Poland.
Suno sa organisasyon, masobra sa 70 “aspirational, inspirational women” ang magatipon kag maga-compete para makuha ang titulo bilang 16th Miss Supranational Brand Ambassador.
Ang magatiglawas sang Pilipinas subong nga tuig amo si Tarah Valencia sang Baguio City.
Napilian siya sa coronation night sang nagligad nga tuig.
Ka-batch siya nanday Chelsea Manalo, Alexie Brooks, kag Ahtisa Manalo.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nangin Philippine representative si Miss Supranational Asia & Oceania Alethea Ambrosio.
Katapusan nga nadag-an sang Pilipinas ang Miss Supranational crown sang 2013 sa persona ni Mutya Datul.
Rufa Mae Quinto, nagpaandam vs scammers nga nagagamit sang iya pangalan agud makapanguwarta
Ginpaandaman ni Rufa Mae Quinto ang iya social media followers batok sa scammers nga nagagamit sang iya pangalan agud magpangayo sang kuwarta.
Suno sa actress-comedienne, may screenshots na siya sang tawo nga naga-chat kag nagapakilala bilang si Rufa kag nagahingyo kun pwede makahulam sang P45,000 bilang pang-piyansa.
Gindugang sini nga indi na niya kinahanglan ang financial support halin sa kay bisan sin-o.
“Wala po akong kailangan na financial support Kahit kanino.
And I’m not asking money Hinde ko po cel no.
Paki kalat nyo nga po please itong gusto mang hingi ng pera sa mga kakilala ko.
Wag na kayo gumawa ng kwento at naireport ko na kayo sa lawyer ko.
Matandaan nga na-involve si Rufa sa investment scam bangud sa isyu sang skincare company nga Dermacare.
Napasakaan siya sang kaso nga 14 counts of violation sang Section 8 sang Securities Regulation Code, nga nagasaad nga ang securities kaangay sang shares kag investments ang indi mahimo mabaligya sa Pilipinas nga wala sang registration statement duly nga na-file kag naaprubahan sa SEC.
Nadagdagan siya sang warrant of arrest, kag sa iya mismo pagpauli diri sa Pilipinas, nagsungka siya sa NBI, kag nakaguwa matapos nagpiyansa sang P1.7-million.
Una man ini nagdepensa nga biktima man siya sa amo nga kontrobersyal nga isyu sang Dermacare nga amo man ang nangin kaso anay ni Neri Naig-Miranda.
Sulod sa prestihiyoso nga Berlin International Film Festival ang Filipino film nga ‘Sunshine’ kun sa diin bida si Maris Racal.
Suno kay Director Antoinette Jadaone, napilian ang pelikula sa idalom sang Generation 14plus category sa 75th edition sang amo nga festival.
Ang Generation 14plus isa ka program sa Berlinale nga naga-feature sang mga istorya sang kabataan kag teenagers.
Natuon diri ang Sunshine bangud istorya ini sang bataon nga gymnast nga nakahibalo nga nagabusong siya sa semana mismo nga nag-umpisa na ang national team tryouts.
Wala pa ginpaguwa kun san-o ang screening dates.
Sang damlag lang, nangin kabahin man ini nga film sa Palm Springs International Film Festival sa idalom sang World Cinema Now section.
Sang Oktubre, nakabaton man ini sang nominasyon para sa Best Youth Film sa 17th Asia Pacific Screen Awards matapos ang premiere sa Toronto International Film Festival.
Ini nga anunsyo sa panibag-o nga achievement sang ‘Sunshine’ ang natabo man kadungan sang pagbalik ni Maris sa social media.
Ginpaguwa man sang actress-recording artist ang iya newest single nga may titulo nga “Perpektong Tao”.
Ini ang una sini nga engagement sa social media matapos nangin kontrobersyal sang Disyembre bangud sa cheating controversy kaupod sa iya onscreen partner nga si Anthony Jennings.
Sa labing una nga tion, nagsabat na ang aktor nga si Richard Gutierrez sa mga kontrobersiya sa iya relasyon lakip na ang ila pagbulagay ni Sarah Lahbati kag ang pagka-link sa iya sa mas bataon nga aktres nga si Barbie Imperial.
Enero 2024 pa sang una nakit-an sanday Richard kag Barbie sa gastropub kag ginsundan sang sightings sa South Korea kag Italy, apang tubtub subong, wala sang kumpirmasyon halin kay Richard kaangot sa ila ‘real status’.
Pahayag sang aktor, for now, “what you see is what you get.”
“Siguro for now, like gaya nga ng sabi mo, nakikita naman ng mga tao.
Doon muna tayo sa what you see is what you get sa amin ni Barbie,” kabahin sang statement sini sa interview sang vlogger-reporter-talent manager nga si Ogie Diaz.
Ginklaro man sini nga wala nag-overlap sanday Barbie kag Sarah — buot silingon, kun siya ang pahambalon, indi third party si Barbie sa ila anay relasyon sang iya asawa.
Pahayag sini, madugay na sila nga nagbulagay ni Sarah antes sini nakilala si Barbie.
Pahayag sini, “Ang gusto ko lang sigurong i-clarify doon sa mga tao is that si Barbie, walang kinalaman sa paghihiwalay namin ni Sarah.
Hindi siya third party, hindi nag-overlap.
Kasi maraming mga tao, yun nga, mga bashers na nagsasabi na siya ang dahilan.
Dugang sini, “Siyempre kasi parang ang daming nagre-react sa kanya, ang daming mga nag-hate comment sa kanya.
So siyempre, kailangan ko siyang protektahan.
Sa subong suno kay Richard, nagapadayon ang annulment process nila sang iya nga estranged wife.
Dugang sini, naka-move forward na sila nga duha kag co-parenting ang ila set-up sa ila duha ka mga bata nga sanday Zion kag Kai.
“Siguro yung tungkol sa amin ni Sarah, ayoko na rin pag-usapan, yung mga nangyaring detalye.
Matandaan nga Marso 2024 sang ginkumpirma sang Swiss-born Filipina actress nga wala na sila sang relasyon ni Richard.#
‘Tulo nang tulo ang luha ko, it’s beautiful, it’s well-written’ — JC Santos sa Ilonggo film nga ‘Cande’
Ginakalangkagan na ang pagguwa sang Ilonggo feature film nga nagasentro sa Jaro, Iloilo City partikular sa debosyon kay Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria ukon Our Lady of Candles nga amo ang ginakilala nga patroness sang Western Visayas.
Ang pelikula nga ‘Cande’ nga malantaw na sa Pebrero 2025 ang ginapangunahan sang aktor nga si JC Santos nga amo ang ginkilala nga 2023 Best Supporting Actor sa Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa FAMAS-winning director kag writer nga si Kevin Pison Piamonte, iya ginpahayag nga ginhimo ang filming sang proyekto sa mismo kapistahan sang Jaro sang nagligad nga tuig nga ginduaw sang madamo nga deboto.
Magluwas sa debosyon kay Candelaria, ipabugal man sang pelikula ang kultura sang Iloilo City lakip na ang mga kinasadya, mga pagkaon, kag ang pagpangabuhi sang mga pumuluyo.
Ang dami, from food… nakita niyo naman sa pelikula, yung fiesta.
Sa exclusive red carpet premiere screening sang pelikula kagab-i, Enero 15, ginpakigbahin naman ni JC nga ini ang una nga bes nga naghibi siya samtang nga ginalantaw ang iya kaugalingon sa screen.
Kung saan kami dinala ng pelikulang yun, para akong kandilang nauubos.
Kaangot ini sa special shoutout sang direktor kay National Artist for Film and Broadcast Arts Rickey Lee nga amo ang nagtudlo sa iya sa pagsulat kag kay National Artist for Theater Tony Mabesa nga amo naman ang mentor nanday JC kag Piamonte sa teatro sa University of the Philippines (UP).
“This coming February 2025, ipapalabas na kami sa cinemas.
Lalo na dito sa Iloilo, so I might see you in the cinemas,” kabahin sang pagpang-imbitar sang actor.#
Nagdonar sang $2.5 million ang singer nga si Beyonce para sa bag-o ginlunsar nga LA Fire Relief Fund nga gintukod sang iya charitable foundation nga BeyGOOD.
Suno sa foundation, ang pondo ang gamiton sa pagbulig sa mga pamilya sa Altadena/Pasadena area nga nadulaan sang balay, amo man sa mga simbahan kag community centers para ma- address ang kinahanglanon sang mga biktima sang wildfires.
Gintukod sang 2013, ang BeyGOOD foundation naga-concentrate sa economic equity paagi sa pagsuporta sa mga marginalized kag under-resourced programs.
Sang nagligad nga semana, ginpakigbahin sang iloy ni Beyoncé nga si Tina Knowles nga ang iya bungalow sa Malibu ang nasunog man sa Los Angeles.
Nahibaluan nga kapin 16,000 ka ektarya sang Los Angeles ang ginlamon sang kalayo kag nagresulta sa 24 ka mga patay kag 100,000 ka mga residente naman ang yara sa evacuation orders.
Miss Iloilo 2025 Karen Nicole Piccio, nakahanda nga ipakilala ang pinasahi nga Iloilo sa national stage
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Nakahanda na ang bag-o ginkoronahan nga Miss Iloilo 2025 nga ipakilala ang pinasahi nga Iloilo sa national stage.
Ini amo si ang 27-anyos nga artist nga si Karen Nicole Piccio sang banwa sang Maasin.
Ginlutos ni Piccio ang siyam ka iban pa nga mga kandidata matapos ginkoronahan sa ginpatigayon nga koronasyon kagab-i sa West Visayas State University – Cultural Center sa La Paz, Iloilo City bilang kabahin sang selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival 2025.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Karen, iya ginpahayag nga mabug-at ang iya responsibilidad bilang bag-o nga Miss Iloilo.
Apang nagapati ini nga sa bulig sang Diyos, masarangan sini ang iya papel bilang ambassadress of beauty and goodwill.
Nahibaluan nga si reigning The Miss Philippines-Eco International Alexie Mae Brooks ang nagkorona kay Karen bilang iya successor sa Miss Iloilo.
Si Karen ang ginakabig naman nga pageant veteran sa diin ginkoronahan naman ini bilang Miss Eco-Tourism Philippines 2019 kag Miss Manila: Woman of Wonder 2023 first runner-up.
Karen Nicole Piccio sang Maasin, ginkoronahan bilang Miss Iloilo 2025
Ginhingadlan ang 27-anyos nga beauty queen nga si Karen Nicole Piccio sang banwa sang Maasin bilang Miss Iloilo 2025.
Ginpatigayon ang koronasyon subong nga gab-i, Enero 11, sa West Visayas State University (WVSU) Cultural Center sa La Paz, Iloilo City bilang kabahin sang selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival.
Magluwas sa titulo, nakuha man ni Piccio ang awards sa Introduction Video, Advocacy and Tourism Video, Runway Model, kag Best In Closed-Door Interview.
Diri kag ginpasulod ni Piccio ang dungog sang Iloilo bilang Creative City of Gastronomy kag gin-angot ini sa mga Ilonggo.
Sunod man nga ginhingadlan bilang heartfelt queens sanday Elaine Segura sang banwa sang Guimbal (Best in Evening Gown) kag Rhea Marissa Puyong sang Passi City (Best in Swimsuit).
Ang iban pa nga mga kandidata nga nagpasakop sa pageant amo sanday:
Nangin host sa event si Nicole Cordoves nga amo man ang Miss Grand International first runner-up sang 2016 kaupod ang Ilonggo pride nga si Ryl Nuñez.
Magluwas sa tatlo ka beauty queens, naserbe man nga judge ang entrepreneur kag President sang Rockwell Club kag CEO sang GICF nga si Mr.
Kilala man siya nga advocate para sa health and wellness.
Ini nga pageant ang gin-organisar sang Iloilo City Government kag Iloilo Festivals Foundation, Inc.
Koronasyon sa Miss Iloilo 2025, karon na sa gab-i
Balantayan na alas syete karon sa gab-i ang koronasyon sa Miss Iloilo 2025 nga kabahin sang selebrasyon sang Dinagyang Festival.
Hiwaton ini sa Cultural Center sang West Visayas State University (WVSU) sa La Paz, Iloilo City.
10 ka mga kandidata nga magapa-indis-indis para sa mga titulo nga amo sanday:
Magabalik naman sa pag-host si Nicole Cordoves nga amo ang Miss Grand International first runner-up sang 2016.
Magluwas sa tatlo ka beauty queens, magaserbe man nga judge ang entrepreneur kag president sang Rockwell Club kag CEO sang GICF nga si Mr.
Lakip sa ihatag nga titulo amo ang Miss Iloilo-Universe, Miss Iloilo-World, Miss Iloilo-Binibini, kag Miss Iloilo-TMP (The Miss Philippines).
Ini nga winners ang magatiglawas sang Iloilo sa prestihiyoso nga national pageants.
Handa ang kontrobersyal nga direktor nga si Darryl Yap nga atubangon ang 19 counts sang cyberlibel nga gin-file ni Vic Sotto batok sa iya.
Nag-ugat ini sa teaser nga ginpaguwa ni Yap kaangot sa iya film nga “The Rapists of Pepsi Paloma” nga nag-mensyonar sang bilog nga pangalan ni Vic Sotto.
Suno sa director, gina-welcome sini ang complaint kag sabton man niya ini kun pormal na ini nga makaabot sa ila nga kampo.
Nanindugan man ini nga naka-dokumento ang material nga iya ginpaguwa kag indi himu-himo lamang agud makapangguba.
Wala man ini sang ‘personalan’ suno sa iya bangud ginplastar lamang niya ang nauna naman nakit-an kag na-publish sang 1980s.
“Ang sa akin lamang, lahat po ng materyal na aking inilabas o ilalabas ay nakadokumento—hindi ko po gawa-gawa para makapanira,” kabahin sang statement.
“Wala pong personalan, naglalahad lamang po ako ng nangyari sa nakaraan na makikita sa mga nailathala noong 1980s.
Ginsiling man sini nga nakabutang sa caption sang teaser nga ang alleged rape case nga gin-file ni Paloma batok kay Sotto ang gin-withdraw man.
“Malaya naman po ang kahit na sino magsampa ng kaso—gaya po ng naisampang rape case noon ni Pepsi Paloma laban sa kanya na siya pong natatanging laman ng teaser.
Nasa caption din po ng post na inurong ang kaso,” suno kay Yap.
Mahalagang mapanood muna nila ang buong pelikula.”
Sang gin-file ni Vic ang complaint, ginsiling sini nga wala gid sang bisan isa halin sa film production ang nagkonsulta sa iya antes ginpaguwa ang teaser.
Nag-isyu naman ang Muntinlupa Regional Trial Court (RTC) Branch 205 sang writ of habeas data kun sa diin dumilian anay si Yap kag iya representatives nga mag-distribute sang promotional content para sa film.
Ginmanduan man ini nga i-take down ang materials nga na-post sa social media kag ginadumilian man ang pag-share sini nga posts.
Ginmanduan man si Yap nga mag-appear sa summary hearing sang petition for a writ of habeas data sa January 15.
Kun balikan, si Pepsi Paloma — nga liwat nga nabuhi ang pangalan bangud sa sini nga kontrobersiya — ang isa ka Filipino-American actress nga bantog sang 1980s bilang isa sa Softdrink Beauties.
Involved siya sa highly publicized scandal nga nag-akusar sang rape batok kanday kanday Sotto, Joey de Leon kag the late Richie D’ Horsie.
Nasapwan siya nga patay sa iya balay sang May 31, 1985.
Rufa Mae Quinto, nagsungka sa NBI kasunod sang gindagdag nga arrest warrant
Nagsungka na si Rufa Mae Quinto sa National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) kasunod sang arrest warrant nga gindagdag sang Pasay court batok sa iya bangud sa ginaalegar involvement sa investment scam nga naangot sa skin care company nga gin-flag na anay sang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Kahapon, sang nag-abot si Rufa Mae halin sa Los Angeles, California, USA, gin-detain siya sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport Terminal 1 paagi sa mga operatiba sang NBI-International Airport Investigation Division (IAID).
Suno sa NBI, gin-escort si Rufa pakadto sa Bureau of Immigration kag sunod nga gintugyan sa ila bangud sa alert list order nga naangot sa iya nga warrant of arrest.
Ginbasahan ini sang Miranda rights, pormal nga gin-aresto, kag sunod nga ginpaidalom sa booking procedures.
Base sa kampo sang aktres, ang iya abogado ang pormal nga nagpakig-angot sa NBI para sa voluntary surrender.
Ginpaidalom man siya sa medico-legal examination antes gindala sa Pasay court.
Sa inisyal nga impormasyon, P1.7-million ang piyansa sang aktres para sa temporaryo nga kahilwayan.
Nagapangatubang siya sang 14 counts sang violation sang Section 8 sang Securities Regulation Code bangud sa kontrobersiya nga ginakaulamiran sang kumpaniya sang Dermacare.
Una na anay ginplastar ni Rufa nga biktima man siya sang sitwasyon.
Wala ini sang ginapangatubang nga large-scale estafa complaint bangud nangin endorser lamang siya sang kumpaniya kag wala nag-intra sa solicitation investments.
Ini man nga kumpaniya amo ang rason sa pagkadakop sa actress-entrepreneur nga si Neri Naig nga asawa ni Chito Miranda sang 2024 nga nag-endorso man sa produkto.
J Lo kag Ben Affleck, pinal na ang diborsyo
Wala na sang paglaum nga magkabalikanay pa sanday Ben Affleck kag Jennifer Lopez matapos nga nangin pinal na ang ila diborsiyo.
Ini ang base sa naggwa nga mga court documents.
Sang August 20, 2024 sang nag-file sang diborsiyo si Jennifer gikan kay Ben.
Sa ginpasa nga dokumento sang singer-actress, nakasaad nga April 26, 2024 sila nagbulagay sang aktor.
Sadto pa nga magkarelasyon ang duha kag una nga nagbulagay sang 2004 apang nagbalikanay sila sang 2021.
July 2022 sang magpakasal sanday Ben kag Jennifer sa isa ka intimate wedding ceremony sa Las Vegas, kag liwat pa nga nagpakasal sa Georgia sang August 20, 2022.
‘RuPaul’s Drag Race UK’ star The Vivienne, napatay sa edad nga 32
Tuman ang kakibot sang drag race community matapos gin-anunsyo nga napatay ang RuPaul’s Drag Race UK winner nga si The Vivienne sa edad nga 32-anyos.
Ini nga artist, actor and singer ang nabun-ag bilang si James Lee Williams kag nangin bantog matapos nadag-an ang first series sang Drag Race UK kag nagpangatlo naman sa 2023 edition sang Dancing On Ice.
Santo sa iya publicist nga si Simon James, nagtaliwan ang drag star sang weekend apang wala gindetalye kun ano ang rason.
Suno naman sa Cheshire Police sang northwest England, ginkadtuan sang mga pulis ang address kun sa diin gin-report nga napatay ang drag star apang wala sang makaduluda nga mga sirkumstansya nga naangot sa iya kamatayon.
Lakip sa naghatag tribute para sa iya amo sanday Ariana Grande, Michelle Visage, presenter nga si Rylan kag si Tia Kofi.
Sofronio Vasquez, nakabalik na sa Pilipinas kasunod sang iya historic win sa ‘The Voice USA’
Balik-Pilipinas na ang Pinoy singer nga si Sofronio Vasquez kasunod sang maragtason nga pagdaog sa “The Voice USA” nga amo ang nagamarka sang una nga male Asian kag una nga Filipino winner sa 26 seasons sang amo nga American show.
Sa iya post nga nagapakita sang iya pag-abot sa airport, madamo nga fans ang nagkomento agud abi-abihon ang iya pagpauli.
Sa Enero 18 natalana ang una nga solo concert ni Vasquez.
Hiwaton ini sa Cebu kun sa diin may yara man sang meet-and-greet session para sa VIP ticket holders kag kadungan man sa Sinulog Festival.
Magluwas sa upcoming local concert, may teaser man si Vasquez sa promising future sang iya musika.
Diri kag ginpasalamatan sini ang iya The Voice coach nga si Michael Bublé.
Antes nag-base sa New York, pila ka beses man nga nagpasakop sa local singing competitions si Vasquez nga ginapatihan man sini nga nangin lyabe man sa iya mga kadalag-an kaangay sang pagdaog sa Estados Unidos.
John Estrada, gintawag nga ‘fake news’ ang mga istorya nga naga-link sa iya kay Barbie Imperial
Ginsabat na ni John Estrada ang mga espekulasyon nga na-link siya sa young actress nga si Barbie Imperial.
Sang damlag lamang nagguwa ang mga istorya nga nangin close ang duha samtang pareho nga nagabida sa primetime series nga FPJ’s Batang Quiapo.
Kadungan man ini sang mga pahayag nga medyo naglas-ayanay na si Barbie kag ang rumored boyfriend sini nga si Richard Gutierrez.
Sabat naman ni John, indi sila personal nga magkilalahay ni Barbie kag gintawag man sini nga fake news ang online posts nga naga-angot sa ila.
“Unang Una Hindi ko alam kung Sino o Saan nag simula ang Kalokohan na to, na naglilink sa amin ni barbie imperial,” suno sa actor.
Nagpahayag man sini nga isa ka bes lang sila nagkitaay para sa Christmas Special apang indi siya sigurado kun 2021 ukon 2022.
Pahayag pa sini, bisan nga isa lang sila ka show, wala man sila nagakitaay bangud lain ang ila grupo, unit, kag director buot silingon, indi sila dungan sa mga eksena nga gina-shoot.
Nagpangabay man si John sa online entertainment websites nga mag-research man kag indi mag-basta-basta share sa publiko sang mga bagay nga 0.1% lamang ang kamatuoran.
“At sa mga online newspaper, o tabloid or tsismis sites, e bago nyo cguro ilabas ang isang bagay e mag research naman kayo kung merong kahit na 0.1 percent na katotohanan, yun lang po at maraming salamat (praying at heart emojis),” dugang sini.
Indi ini ang una nga bes nga na-link si John sa lain nga babaye apisar pa sang kasado sila sang Brazilian beauty queen nga si Priscilla Meirelles.
‘Unbothered’ ang ginbansagan nga Pambansang Ginoo nga si David Licauco sa latest showbiz happenings.
Sa iya latest Instagram photo, simple nga black shirt kag shorts ang suksok sini kag madamo ang naham-ot sa iya caption nga “Chill lang.”
Wala sang context sa caption sini apang may nagasunlog sa iya kaangay sang ‘Pulang Araw’ co-star sini nga si Derrick Monasterio nga nakahibalo siya kun ano ang buot silingon ni David: “Alam ko na to haha.”
Indi abi malikawan sang fans nga mamensyonar ang pangalan ni David sa online discussions kasunod sang pag-anunsyo ni Barbie Forteza nga bulagay na sila sang iya long-time boyfriend nga si Jak Roberto.
Wala sang ginhatag nga rason si Barbie kag wala man gihapon sang komento si Jak tubtub subong.
Madumduman nga sang Disyembre, nahinambit naman ni David sa isa ka livestream sa iya bag-o nga coffee business nga single siya subong kag magapangita sang bag-o nga girlfriend.
Bisan pa sang tion nga magkarelasyon pa sanday Barbie kag Jak, kilala na ang chemistry sang BarDa ukon ang Barbie Forteza kag David Licauco tandem sa 2022 historical series nga Maria Clara at Ibarra tubtub sa Maging Sino Ka Man, Pulang Araw, kag That Kind of Love.
P3.8-M, gin-donate ni J-Hope sa mga pamilya sang Jeju Air crash victims
Nag-donar ang BTS member nga si J-Hope sang 100 million Korean won (ginabanta $68,000 ukon P3.8 million) agud suportahan ang mga pamilya sang mga biktima sang nagtibusok ang eroplano sang Jeju Air sang nagligad nga Disyembre 29.
Ginhatag sang South Korean idol ang iya donasyon paagi sa Hope Bridge National Disaster Relief Association.
Antes sini, miyembro na nga daan si J-Hope sang Hope Bridge Honor Club nga grupo sang “high-value” donors nga nagasuporta sa nagkalain-lain nga kawsa kag nagahatag sang bulig sa mga nagakinahanglan.
Balantayan ang “J-HOPE TOUR – HOPE ON THE STAGE” concert sa Seoul sa Feb.
May full comeback man ang BTS sini nga 2025.
Kun matapos na ang ila military obligations, magabalik ang grupo sa global stage para sa celebratory world tour nga nagamarka sang ila 10th anniversary sang iconic nga “The Most Beautiful Moment in Life” series.
Sa subong, lima sa pito ka BTS members ang nagaserbe pa sa military nga amo sanday SUGA, RM, Jimin, V kag Jungkook apang natalana nga makatapos na sa mid-2025.
Marian Rivera, Dingdong Dantes, nag-renew sang ila wedding vows
Magatakop ang tuig nga ‘going stronger’ ang relasyon sang celebrity couple nga sanday Marian Rivera kag Dingdong Dantes.
Kadungan sang ika-10 nga wedding anniversary, gin-renew sang mag-asawa ang ila vows sa simbahan sa Quezon City nga amo man ang lugar kun sa diin sila nagpakasal isa ka dekada na ang nagligad.
Ang ila duha ka kabataan nga sanday Zia kag Sixto ang kaupod man sa intimate ceremony sa Immaculate Conception Cathedral sa Cubao.
Kaangay sa ila kasal, naglakat man si Marian sa aisle samtang nakasuksok sang white dress kag may dala nga bouquet sang white flowers.
Una nga nagkit-anay ang duha sa remake sang Mexican series nga “Marimar” sang 2007 nga amo ang nangin highest-rated primetime show sa Philippine television.
Ini man ang nangin pamuno sang pagbantog sang DongYan.
Na-engage sila sang pribado sang 2012, apang nag-propose liwat si Dingdong kay Marian sang Agosto 2014 kag nagpakasal na sang Disyembre 30 sang amo man nga tuig.
Renewal of vows, ginpatigayon kadungan sang 10th Anniversary nanday Dingdong kag Marian
Ginpakigbahin sang mag-asawa nga Dingdong Dantes kag Marian Rivera ang pictures kag videos sang ila renewal of vows sa Immaculate Concepcion Cathedral kadungan sang ila 10th Anniversary.
Sa nasambit man nga simbahan ginkasal ang duha sang Disyembre 30, 2014.
Nagtambong naman sa intimate nga kahiwatan ang ila anak nga sanday Zia kag Sixto.
Andrea Brillantes, nagpanguna sa ‘2024 most beautiful faces’
Nagpanguna ang young actress nga si Andrea Brillantes sa lista sang 100 most beautiful faces of 2024 base sa resulta sang global beauty poll.
Ini ang ikaduha nga tuig nga sulod si Blythe sa amo nga lista sang TC Candler.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nagapang-16 siya sa ranking.
Subong nga 2024, naunahan na sini pati sanday Jisoo kag Rose sang Blackpink, American actress nga si Sydney Sweeney, Korean-American K-pop idol nga si Nancy McDonie, kag Portuguese actress nga si Alba Baptista nga asawa ni Chris Evans.
Magluwas kay Andrea, may pito ka iban pa nga mga Pinay nga sulod sa listahan.
Nagapang-28 si Janine Gutierrez sa iya ikaapat nga tuig sa listahan.
Ang 2017 number 1 kag Hall of Famer nga si Liza Soberano ang nagapang-31 na subong.
Ini na ang ika-10 nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga ginkilala si Liza sa amo nga global poll.
Nagapang-52 naman si Belle Mariano kag nagapang-69 si Ivana Alawi.
Yara man sa 82nd spot si Gehlee nga isa sa Philippine-born members sang K-pop group nga UNIS, samtang ang BINI member nga si Aiah ang nagapang-88 sa ranking.
Nahibaluan nga gina-publish sang TC Candler ang 100 Most Beautiful Faces list halin sang 1990.
Ang naga-judge diri amo ang ginabanta 20 ka mga tawo halin sa lain-lain nga parte sang kalibutan.
Masobra 40 countries ang regular nga gina-presentar sa sini nga tuigan nga lista.
2025, mangin tuig sang mga lover sang color brown
Para sa mga lover sang color brown ang tuig 2025.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa renowned Ilonggo designer nga si Daryl Amar, iya ginpahayag nga ang Mocha Mousse ang luxurious kag earthy brown sa diin kumbinasyon ini sang sophistication kag comfort.
Inspirasyon naman sang ini nga color amo ang chocolate kag kape.
Ang nasambit nga color naman ang mahimo magamit sa mga balay, fashion, interior design, branding, kag digital media.
Ini ang nagasimbolo naman sa emotional kag psychological nga estado sang komunidad.
Ang pagpili sang Color of the Year ang nag-agi naman sa metikoloso nga proseso agud magsanto ang art kag science.
Ginbase naman ini sang Pantone Color Institute sa global trends sa art, teknolohiya, entertainment, travel, kag mangin sa socio-political movements.
Sa pagkabug-usan ang Mocha Mousse ang nagasimbolo sa ‘refined simplicity’ kag ‘modern luxury’.
Dennis Trillo, Judy Ann Santos, nakuha ang pinakamataas nga acting awards sa 2024 MMFF
Nakuha nanday Dennis Trillo kag Judy Ann Santos ang Best Actor kag Best Actress awards sa ginpatigayon nga Gabi ng Parangal ukon Night of Honors para sa ika-50 nga Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF).
Dala ni Dennis ang leading role sa “Green Bones” bilang notoryos nga preso nga si Domingo Zamora nga nagpatay sa iya utod kag anak sini.
Ginpierde ni Dennis ang iban nga nominees sa Best Actor nga sanday Vice Ganda, Seth Fedelin, Vic Sotto, Piolo Pascual, kag Arjo Atayde.
Maraming salamat po dito sa karangalan na ito.
Isang napakalaking karangalan na tumanggap ng isang napaka-espesyal na parangal sa harap ninyong lahat.
Lagi ko pong sinasabi na ngayong araw ng kapaskuhan, ayaw ko na pong magpaka-stress sa pakikipagkumpitensya o pakikipagpagalingan sa kahit kanino man dahil pakiramdam namin panalo na kami nu’ng naipasok pa lang sa sampung entries dito sa 50th anniversary ng Metro Manila Film Fest ang Green Bones.
Kaya palakpakan po natin ang mga sarili natin.
Winners tayong lahat,” kabahin sang acceptance speech sang actor.
Emosyonal naman si Juday sa iya nga speech matapos nadag-an liwat ang Best Actress award paagi sa horror film nga Espantaho.
Sa sini nga masterpiece, gindala sang aktres ang papel ni Monet nga isa ka babaye nga makakita sang espiritu sang iya nagtaliwan nga iloy.
Ginlutos naman sini sa kategorya sanday Aicelle Santos (Isang Himala), Francine Diaz (My Future You), Jane de Leon (Strange Frequencies: Taiwan Killer Hospital), Julia Montes (Topakk), kag Vilma Santos (Uninvited).
Naniniwala akong hindi ko magagawa ang trabaho ko kung hindi dahil sa inyo,” she said.
“Sa lahat po ng kasama sa MMFF, sa sampung napakagagandang pelikula, du’n pa lang, panalo na tayong lahat.
Hindi ko naisip na makakarating ako dito.
Sa lahat po ng kapwa ko nominado, para sa ating lahat ito.
Merry Christmas, everyone,” kabahin naman sang statement ni Judy Ann.
Nakuha naman sang Green Bones ang “Best Picture” award nga ginsundan sang “The Kingdom”, “My Future You”, kag “Isang Himala.”
Best Director naman sanday Michael Tuviera sang “The Kingdom” kag Crisanto B.
Ginpatigayon kagab-i, Disyembre 27, ang Gabi ng Parangal (Night of Honors) para sa 50th Metro Manila Film Festival agud kilalahon ang pinakamaayo nga mga aktor, aktres, direktor, kag screenplays subong nga tuig.
Yari ang kumpleto nga lista sang winners:
Best Supporting Actress – Kakki Teodoro, “Isang Himala”
Best Original Song – Ang Himala ay Nasa Puso by Juan Karlos, “Isang Himala”
MUPH 2025 coronation, gintalana sa Abril
Gin-anunsyo na sang Miss Universe Philippines (MUPH) organization nga sa Abril sa masunod nga tuig na koronahan ang bag-o nga successor ni reigning Miss Universe Philippines Chelsea Manalo.
Ini isa ka bulan nga mas temprano sa iya crowning anniversary nga Mayo 22.
Suno sa organization, mas temprano ini bangud sa eleksyon sa Mayo.
Ginpasiguro naman sang organisasyon nga ang 2025 Miss Universe Philippines pageant ang mas dako kag mas manami kun ipaanggid subong nga tuig kun sa diin possible nga maglab-ot sa 80 ang participants nga ginalauman nga ipadala sang mga local directors.
Matandaan nga sa 73rd Miss Universe pageant sa Mexico sang nagligad nga bulan, ginkoronahan si Manalo bilang pinakauna nga Miss Universe Asia.
Impormasyon nga patay na si Kris Aquino, indi matuod — Dindo Balares
Ginbali sang suod nga abyan ni Kris Aquino nga si Dindo Balares ang pila sa nagalapta nga impormasyon nga napatay na ang 53-anyos nga Queen of All Media.
Ginpaguwa ni Balares ang statement matapos may mga nagpamangkot sa iya kun ano na ang kondisyon sang former host-actress.
Pahayag sini, dapat nga doble-halong sa mga fake news kag misinformation kag indi basta-basta magpati kun indi halin sa pamilya ukon reliable sources ang impormasyon.
“Para po sa followers ni Krissy, dobleng ingat na lang po sa fake news at misinformation.
Huwag maniniwala hangga’t hindi galing sa kanyang pamilya o reliable sources,” suno sa former writer.
Gin-updan pa ini ni Dindo sang recent picture ni Kris kaupod ang iya duha ka mga bata nga sanday Josh kag Bimby.
Pahayag sini, masami nga natuyo si Kris subong apang ginalantaw nga senyales ini sang pag-recover sang iya lawas.
Padayon man ang pag-monitor sa iya nga blood pressure kag heartbeat.
“Patuloy ang gamutan at pagpapalakas niya.
Katunayan, food ang madalas na topic namin ngayon,” dugang sini.
“Sa last chat namin, nagtatanong siya kung may harvest pa ng Japanese sweet potato at kung anu-ano pa ang iba kong tanim.”
Septyembre sang nagbalik si Kris sa Pilipinas matapos ang masobra duha ka tuig nga medical treatment sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika bangud sa iya ginasuprer nga anum ka autoimmune diseases.
Gindayon sang OPM icon nga si Gary Valenciano ang “Pure Energy: One More Time” concert kagab-i, Disyembre 22, sa Smart Araneta Coliseum matapos nga naglain ang iya pamatyag kag napaslawan nga mapatapos ang nauna nga konsyerto sang Biyernes sang gab-i.
Lakip sa nangin kaupod sang Filipino singer sa iya pagbalik sa entablado amo ang SB19, si Darren Espanto, si AC Bonifacio, kag si Gloc-9 nga nag-perform sang award-winning song nga ‘Walang Pumapalakpak’.
Yara man mismo ang anak ni Gary nga si Kiana Valenciano-Tolentino.
Todo-bawi ang 60-anyos nga performer sa iya audience paagi sa pagkanta sa iya greatest hits kaangay sang “Di Bale Na Lang,” “Shout For Joy,” “Eto Na Naman,” kag “Sa Yahweh.” Napuno naman sang emosyo ang Big Dome sa iya renditions sang ballads kaangay sang “Sana Maulit Muli,” “Lead Me Lord,” kag “Warrior Is a Child.”
Una na nga nagpasalamat ang Team Gary V sa mga nagpangamuyo para sa iya ikaayong lawas kag nagpangayo man sang pasaylo sa natabo sang Biyernes.
Gin-utod ang amo nga event bangud sa pagpalanakit sang tiyan sang singer, pila ka beses nga nagsuka, tubtub nga gindala ini sa ospital.
Antes sini, pila man ka health challenges ang naagyan ni Gary kaangay sang type-1 diabetes, pagpaidalom sa bypass surgery, kag paglampuwas sa kidney cancer.
Sa pihak sini tanan, padayon siya nga ginakilala bilang si “Mr.
Sang Oktubre, ginpatigayon ang iya 100th concert sa Music Museum.
Ini naman nga “Pure Energy: One More Time” concerts sa bilog nga tuig ang kabahin sang iya selebrasyon sang 40th year sa entertainment industry.
Malipayon ang aktor nga si Cesar Montano para sa iya anay asawa nga si Sunshine Cruz nga subong kumpirmado na nga karelasyon sang gambling tycoon nga si Atong Ang.
Suno kay Cesar, kun malipayon si Sunshine, buot silingon sini, malipayon man ang ila mga anak — kag bilang amay, kalipayan man niya ini.
Nagpahayag man ini nga saludo siya kay Atong sa iya kaisog sa pag-ako sa iya relasyon kay Sunshine.
Nahibaluan nga 2018 sang gin-annul ang kasal nanday Cesar kag Sunshine, kag subong mag-abyan gihapon sila kag makit-an nga naga-upod sa pila ka mga okasyon nga kinahanglan sila sang ila mga bata nga sanday Angelina, Chesca, kag Sam.
Sini man nga semana sang nakumpirma ang relasyon nanday Atong kag Sunshine matapos nga naglapta ang videos sang ila paghalukanay.
Antes sini, may anum ka tuig man nga relasyon si Shine sa pulitiko nga si Macky Mathay apang gin-anunsyo ang ila pagbulagay sang Septyembre 2022.
Sa pihak nga bahin, na-link man anay si Atong sa aktres nga si Gretchen Barretto apang ginpahayag anay ni Gretchen nga mag-business partner lamang sila.
‘Greatest blessing’: Transman Jesi Corcuera, ginpakilala na ang iya subang nga si baby Ninja
Puno gid sang kalipay ang Paskuwa para sa anay celebrity kag transman nga si Jesi Corcuera matapos nga ginpakilala na sini sa publiko ang iya baby girl.
Sa iya social media post, ginpakigbahin ni Jesi ang pictures sang iya bata nga ginhingadlan nga si Calia Elle ukon si Baby Ninja — iya man gintawag nga “greatest blessing” sa iya nga kabuhi.
You are my greatest blessing,” caption sini sa iya nga Instagram post.
Sang nagligad nga semana sang ginkumpirma sang transman nga nagbun-ag na siya.
Matandaan nga sang Oktubre, ginpakigbahin sini ang balita sang iya pagbusong paagi sa pagpakita sang iya baby bump kag may rainbow flag sa iya abaga nga amo ang simbolo sang LGBTQIA+ community.
Pahayag sini, 2018 pa lang, nagplano na siya nga makaangkon sang anak apang wala natigayon bangud kulang sa kuwarta kag mataas gid ang galastuhan sa in vitro fertilization (IVF).
“Sa lahat ng gagawan ko ng caption, ito na yata ‘yung pinaka-nahirapan ako.
Alam ko mahihirapan din kayong intindihin kung paano ito nangyari.
2018 nung simulan kong planuhing magkaroon ng anak.
Pero that time, maraming struggles, lalo na financially and hindi rin naman biro ang gastos sa unang plano kong mag-IVF,” pahayag anay sang former housemate sa PBB.
Nagbalik ang iya partner sa iya kabuhi, kag bilang ‘father figure’ sa kabataan sang iya partner, gusto man sini nga makaangkon sang iya kaugalingon gid nga baby.
“Hanggang sa bumalik sa buhay ko si Cams pati ang mga bata.
Naisip kong parang sign na yata ito ni Lord sa’kin.
Baka ito ‘yung warm-up Niya para sa’kin kung paano ako magiging magulang soon.
Sa pagtayo ko bilang tatay ng mga anak ni Cams, maraming naging realizations.
Isa na dun ‘yung baka may chance pa pala akong magkaroon ng sarili kong anak,” dugang sini.
“Fast forward ngayong taon, di ko in-expect na mabubuo siya through my last option na ako ang magdadala pero sobrang thankful ako na pinagkaloob ito ng Diyos sa akin.
Hindi naging madali ang prosesong ito para sa akin kaya sana hindi niyo rin ganun kadaling husgahan kung anong nakikita niyo ngayon,” kabahin pa sang iya malawig nga caption.
Sang amo man nga tion, nagpasalig ini nga suportahan gid sini gihapon ang kabataan sang iya partner kag palanggaon gid ang iya kaugalingon nga bata.
“Simple lang naman ang gusto ko, ‘yung magkaroon ng matatawag kong sariling akin.
Alam kong may mga anak akong inako kay Cams at walang mababago dun sa pagdating ni “Ninja” (nickname ng baby ko Hahaha).
Sa lahat ng desisyon ko sa buhay, malaki ang naging parte ng mga bata at ni Cams sa kung ano ako ngayon.”
“Samahan n’yo kami sa bagong journey ng buhay kong ito.
At sana kapulutan ng aral at inspirasyon ng marami,” dugang sini.
Kabahin si Jesi sang Philippine television reality competition show sang 2006 nga StarStruck kag ka-batch sini sanday Kris Bernal, Aljur Abrenica, Chariz Solomon, kag iban pa.
Nangin housemate naman siya sang “Pinoy Big Brother” sang 2017 nga may moniker nga “Trans man of the House ng Cavite.”#
Gambling tycoon Atong Ang, ginkumpirma ang relasyon kay Sunshine Cruz
Ginkumpirma sang businessman kag gambling tycoon nga si Charlie ‘Atong’ Ang ang relasyon nila sang actress nga si Sunshine Cruz.
Ang pagkumpirma ni Atong ang kasunod sang mga nagwa nga video clips nila ni Sunshine nga naga-kiss.
Sa isa sa mga videos, makit-an si Sunshine nga nagalakat padulong kay Atong kag naghatag ini sang kiss.
Sa isa naman ka video, makit-an nga si Atong naman ang naga-kiss kay Sunshine.
Nahibaluan nga si Sunshine ang nag-angkon sang long-term relationship kay Macky Mathay, apang ginkumpirma ang ila breakup sang 2023.
Ginkasal naman sadto si Sunshine kay Cesar Montano, apang gin-annul sila sang 2018.
Samtang si Atong ang na-link naman sadto sa actress nga si Gretchen Barretto.
Nagtaliwan na ang multi-awarded theater director kag producer nga si Bobby Garcia sa edad nga 55-anyos.
Ginkumpirma sang iya pamilya ang masubo nga balita, wala pa sang nahatag nga dugang nga detalye, kag nagpangayo man sang privacy.
Nag-direct siya kag nag-produce sang masobra 50 plays kag musicals sa Canada kag Asia nga na-nominate sa Tony, Drama League kag Outer Critic Circle awards.
Nangin co-producer man siya sang “Here Lies Love” sa Broadway nga may yara sang apat ka Tony nominations.
Nangin winner siya sang tatlo ka Aliw awards kag na-induct man sa Hall of Fame.
Ang iya last directorial project amo ang “Request sa Radyo” kun sa diin starring sanday Dolly De Leon kag Lea Salonga subong nga tuig.
‘And So It Begins’, wala nadala sa shortlists sa Oscars 2025
Napaslawan ang official entry sang Pilipinas nga makasulod sa shortlists para sa palaabuton nga seremonya sang 2025 Academy Awards ukon Oscars.
Ang “And So It Begins” nagatuyo kuntani nga maka-upod sa kategorya nga International Feature Film kag Documentary Feature.
Bangud sini, padayon gihapon ang paghulat sang mga Pinoy nga ma-nominate ang labing-una nga Filipino movie sa sini nga prestihiyoso nga awards ceremony.
Ang “And So It Begins” ni Direk Ramona Diaz amo ang una nga tion nga nag-field ang Pilipinas sang documentary sa Academy Awards halin sang nagsugod ini sa pagpadala sang entries.
Ini nga dokumentaryo ang nagasentro sa “pink” movement ni former vice president Leni Robredo sa iya presidential bid sang 2022 national elections kag istorya sang journalist kag Nobel Peace Prize winner nga si Maria Ressa sa iya pagpakigbato para sa press freedom.
Ini man ang pang-apat nga tion nga babaye ang nag-direct sang entry sang Pilipinas kasunod kanday Marilou Diaz-Abaya para sa “Karnal,” “Milagros,” kag “Sa Pusod ng Dagat”; Rory Quintos para sa “Anak”; kag Hannah Espia para sa “Transit.”
Hearing sa kaso sang kamatayon ni One Direction member Liam Payne, ginsuguran na sa Argentina
Ginsuguran na sang korte sa Argentina ang hearing sa kaso sang napatay nga One Direction member nga si Liam Payne.
Kabahin sa ginaimbestigaran ang duha ka bag-o nga mga indibidwal nga gin-charge sang nagligad nga semana kag tatlo ka iban pa nga ginpatawag sang korte para magsabat sang mga pamangkot.
Base sa impormasyon, gin-implicate ang hotel manager nga si Gilda Martin kag reception chief nga si Esteban Reynaldo Grassi kun sa diin gin-schedule ang ila testimoniya paagi sa Zoom.
Ginpatawag man ni Judge Laura Bruniard sa korte ang manager nga si Rogelio Nores, waiter nga si Braian Paiz, kag hotel employee nga si Ezequiel Pereyra para usisaon.
Matandaan nga napatay si Payne matapos nahulog ini gikan sa iya hotel room balcony sa Buenos Aires sang October 16.
‘Kapag anak mo, anak mo ‘yon’: Bong Revilla, nag-ako nga may illegitimate children
Ginsapubliko sang actor-politician nga si Senator Bong Revilla nga may yara siya sang iban pa gid nga kabataan magluwas sa ila mga anak ni Lani Mercado.
Gin-ako ini ni Revilla kadungan sang media conference sang iya pelikula nga “Walang Matigas na Pulis sa Matigas na Misis” Season 3.
Suno sa senador, nakahibalo ang iya asawa kag ila anum ka kabataan nga may yara siya sang “love children.”
Gindugang sini nga mga babaye ang iya ginatumod nga illegitimate children apang wala na siya sang gindugang nga detalye kag kun sin-o ang ila iloy.
“Makikilala n’yo rin kung sino siya, kung sino sila.”
Dugang niya, wala siya sang plano nga taguon ang iya kabataan bangud indi ini patas para sa ila.
Dugo mo ‘yon, mahalin mo ‘yon at hindi ko ikinahihiya ‘yong ganon,” pahayag pa ni Revilla.
Si Revilla kag si Lani — nga isa man ka actress kag subong kongresista sa Bacoor City — ang nagpakasal sang 1986.
May yara sila sang anum ka mga bata nga sanday Bryan, Jolo, Inah, Alexandra, Gianna, Franzel kag Ramboy.
Antes nagminyo, may affair man si Revilla kay Lovely Guzman nga isa ka non-showbiz personality kag may isa ila ka anak nga si Luigi.
Sa pihak nga bahin, kaupod ni Revilla sa iya bag-o nga pelikula si Beauty Gonzalez nga mahimo na malantaw umpisa sa Disyembre 22.
Ang “Walang Matigas na Pulis sa Matinik na Misis” amo ang remake sang 1994 action-comedy film nga may amo man nga titulo.
Si Bong gihapon ang magadala sang papel ni Bartolome “Bart/Tolome” Reynaldo samtang si Beauty ang maga-akto bilang si Gloria nga orihinal anay nga gindala ni Lani.#
Vice Ganda, Sharon Cuneta, iban pa nga artista, nagtambong sa concert sa Malacañang
Nagpatigayon sang konsyerto ang Malacañang bilang pagkilala sa mga katapo sang local film industry.
Natabo ini antes ang Metro Manila Film Festival (MMFF) nga amo ang kapiyestahan nga nagatipon sang locally-produced movies para sa Christmas season.
Lakip sa nagpadulong sa Palasyo para sa “Konsyerto sa Palasyo para sa Pelikulang Pilipino” amo ang mga artista, film producers, kag production personnel.
Nangin highlight sang event ang special number sang singer-actress nga si Zsa Zsa Padilla.
“Mahalaga talaga na bigyan natin ng honor and importance yung ating film industry dahil nagbibigay ito ng kabuhayan sa ating mga kababayang Pilipino,” suno kay Tourism Secretary Maria Christina Frasco.
Nahibaluan nga ang movie industry ang kabahin sang “creative economy” sa Pilipinas nga nakatipon sang P1.60-trillion sang 2022 base sa data sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA).
Ini nga kantidad ang katumbas sang 7.3% sang Gross Domestic Product (GDP) sang Pilipinas.
Antes ang concert para sa local movie industry, nagpatigayon man ang Marcos Jr.
administration sang kaangay sini nga events nga nagkilala man anay sa mga soldado, mga manunudlo, mga atleta, kag health workers.
Rufa Mae Quinto, Trevor Magallanes, nagahikot na sang ila divorce
Ginahikot na nanday Rufa Mae Quinto kag Trevor Magallanes ang papeles para sa ila nga divorce matapos ang walo ka tuig nga pag-updanay bilang mag-asawa.
Mismo si Magallanes ang nagkumpirma sini paagi sa isa ka Instagram story.
Pahayag sini, mabudlay ang ila gina-agyan, apang ang importante subong suno sa natungdan amo nga matapos na ini kag makaupod niya ang iya anak nga si Athena.
Matandaan nga antes ini nga statement, nag-post man siya sang screenshots sang ginaalear nga istoryahanay nila ni Quinto.
Sa ila pagbaisay sa amo nga chat, pabalik-balik ang ila nga gina-istoryahan sa arrangement sa pagtatap sa ila bata.
Ang pagbulgar ni Magallanes nga bulagay na sila ni Rufa Mae ang natabo pila ka semana lamang matapos ginkumpirma man sang comedienne-actress nga may yara siya sang warrant of arrest bangud sa 14 counts of violation sang Section 8 sang Securities Regulation Code.#
Ginkilala sang Billboard Music Awards ang 35-anyos nga American music superstar nga si Taylor Swift bilang All-Time Top Winner matapos nalab-ot ang 49 wins sa iya bug-os nga karera sa musika.
Si Taylor na subong ang nagauyat sang pinakamataas nga record sa history sang BBMA kag ginasundan ni Drake nga may 39 wins.
Sa awards ceremony subong nga tuig, may 10 ka bag-o nga trophies si Taylor lakip na ang Top Artist, Top Female Artist, Top Billboard 200 Artist, Top Hot 100 Artist, Hot 100 Songwriter, Top Streaming Songs Artist kag Top Billboard 200.
Ini man ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga 10 ka awards ang iya nakuha halin sa BBMA.
Sang nagligad nga inadlaw lamang sang gintapos sang Grammy-winner ang iya “Eras Tour” sa Vancouver, Canada kag ginhatag man ang P11.4 billion bilang bonus sa mga tawo nga nagbulig sa iya tour sa nagligad nga duha ka tuig.
Marso 17, 2023 sang nagsugod ang iya tour sa Arizona, USA kag nakahapit sa 149 ka mga syudad lakip na sa Singapore kag sa Japan nga amo ang duha ka Asian stops.
Magapakasal na ang American singer-actress nga si Selena Gomez sa iya boyfriend nga si Benny Blanco.
Gin-anunsyo sang 32-anyos nga entrepreneur ang iya engagement sa 36-anyos nga songwriter matapos una nga ginsapubliko ang ila relasyon sang nagligad nga tuig.
Lakip sa ginpakita ni Selena amo ang iya singsing kag ila sweet photos nga may caption “forever begins now”.
Madasig naman nga nagkomento ang iya suod nga abyan nga si Taylor Swift: “Yes I will be the flower girl.”
Lakip man sa nagpanginbulahan amo sanday Cardi B, Gwyneth Paltrow, Jennifer Aniston, Suki Waterhouse, Lil Nas X kag iban pa.
Si Selena nga tumandok sang Texas, USA ang may yara sang 423-million followers sa Instagram kag ginakabig nga “most followed woman” sa amo nga social media app.
Tag-iya man siya sang cosmetic brand nga Rare Beauty kag gin-anunsyo anay sang Septyembre nga nalakip na siya sa ‘youngest self-made billionaires in the United States’ nga may net worth nga $1.3 billion suno sa Bloomberg.
May yara siya anay sang high profile on-and-off relationship kay Bieber kag naka-date man ang singer nga si The Weeknd sang 2017.
Si Blanco naman ang isa ka record producer nga naka-trabaho kaupod kanday Rihanna, Calvin Harris kag Justin Bieber.
Antes ginsapubliko ang ila nga relasyon, naka-updanay na sila nga duha sa mga kanta nga I Can’t Get Enough sang 2019 kag Single Soon sang 2023.#
Ginaulan sang pagpanginbulahan sang local celebrities, singers, kag Pinoy fans ang Filipino musician nga si Sofronio Vasquez nga amo ang nagkampyon sa 26th season sang “The Voice” sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Nadala pauli sang 32-anyos nga singer ang grand prize nga $100,000 kag ang recording contract matapos nakuha sini ang most number of votes sa kumpetisyon.
Naghimo man ini sang maragtas bilang una nga Filipino kag una nga Asian nga nakadaog sang amo nga prestihiyoso nga titulo.
Ginpakigbahin ni Vasquez nga isa lang ini ka damgo sang una gani tuman ka daku ang kahulugan sini para sa iya subong.
Naghatag man ini sang advice sa mga tawo nga may ambisyon man kaangay sini.
Bisan yara sa Estados Unidos, nakahibalo si Vasquez kun daw ano ka mainit ang pag-abi-abi sang mga Pinoy sa iya kadalag-an.
Sa final round sang kumpetisyon, ginkanta ni Sofronio ang “Unstoppable” ni Sia kag ang “A Million Dreams” halin sa The Greatest Showman.
Nahibaluan nga ginbun-ag kag ginpadaku si Sof sa Pilipinas apang nagsaylo na ini sa New York agud magtrabaho bilang dental assistant.#
Naghimo sang kasaysayan ang Pinoy singer nga si Sofronio Vasquez matapos nangin pinakauna nga Asian nga nagdaog sa hit American talent show nga “The Voice USA.”
Ang 32-year-old singer halin sa Team Bublé ang nagdaog sa competition matapos nakakuha sang pinakadamo nga boto.
Nagbaton naman ini sang grand prize nga $100,000 ukon P5.8 million kag recording contract.
Thank you so much,” pahayag ni Vasquez sa iya coach antes ang final announcement.
BINI, nanguna sa listahan sang most searched female personalities sa Pilipinas subong nga tuig
Ginpamatud-an sang girl group nga BINI ang ila popularidad subong nga 2024.
Ini matapos nanguna ang grupo sa listahan sang Google sang most searched female personalities sa Pilipinas subong nga tuig.
Ang mismo myembro sini nga si Mikha Lim ang nalakip man sa listahan.
Pila sa mga kilala nga personalidad kag celebrities nga nadala sa listahan amo sanday Charlie Dizon, Claudine Barretto, Beyonce, Kamala Harris, kag Alice Guo.
Ang breakout hits sang BINI nga “Salamin, Salamin” kag “Pantropiko,” ang nalakip naman sa Google’s Top 10 list sang most searched songs kag lyrics nga yara sa ikapito kag ika-siyam nga pwesto.
Ang “Salamin, Salamin” amo ang most watched music video sa Pilipinas sa YouTube nga may 73 million base sa gin-anunsyo sang amo nga platform.
Bana ni Beyoncé nga si Jay-Z, ginreklamo bangud sa gin-alegar pag-rape sa 13-anyos nga bata sang 2000
Ginkasuhan ang American star rapper kag entrepreneur nga si Jay-Z bangud sa gin-alegar nga pag-rape sa 13-anyos nga babaye sang 2000 kaupod sa hip-hop artist nga si Sean “Diddy” Combs.
Ini nga hip-hop megastar, 55, ang kilala bilang si “Shawn Carter” sa matuod nga pangalan kag kasado sa music superstar nga si Beyonce.
Anonymous ang nag-akusar ukon gin-identify lamang bilang si “Jane Doe.” Base sa iya statement, natabo ang pagpanghimulos matapos nga gindala ini sa after-party sang MTV Video Music Awards sa Manhattan, New York.
Una na nga na-file ini nga federal lawsuit sang Oktubre, 2024 sa Southern District of New York kun sa diin si Sean ang defendant, apang gin-file ini liwat subong kag ginlakip na si Jay-Z sa gin-akusaran.
Base sa statement sang nag-akusar, sa natabo nga house party, ginhatagan siya sang ilimnon kag gilayon nga naglingin ang iya ulo rason nga nagkadto siya sa hulot agud magpahuway.
Ginpahayag sini nga nagsulod man si Sean kag si Jay-Z sa hulot, kag si Jay-Z mismo ang una nga nag-rape sa iya samtang nagalantaw si Sean kag ang isa ka female celebrity nga gin-identify bilang si ‘Celebrity B.’ Pagkatapos suno sa iya, si Sean naman ang nagbulos sa pagpahimulos sa iya kag nagalantaw man gihapon ang babaye.
Ginpahayag sa statement sang nag-akusar nga nagasuprer ini gihapon sang post-traumatic stress disorder kag depression bilang resulta sang ginaalegar nga pag-rape sa iya.
Gilayon nga nagpaguwa sang statement si Jay-Z kag gintawag ini nga “idiotic” kag isa ka “blackmail attempt”.
Nahibaluan nga antes sini, una na nga nangatubang si Sean sang kaso nga racketeering, sex trafficking kag iban pa nga kaso kag yara subong sa Metropolitan Detention Center sa Brooklyn.
Tatlo ka beses siya nga wala ginpa-pyansa kag naka-schedule ang trial sa Mayo 5, 2025.
Sa court hearing sang nagligad nga bulan, ginpahayag sang prosecutors nga posible madugangan pa gid ang potensyal nga kaso batok kay Sean.#
Tiglawas sang Pilipinas, second runner-up sa Miss Intercontinental pageant
Napadayon sang Pilipinas ang isa ka dekada na nga winning streak sa Miss Intercontinental pageant matapos gindeklarar ang tiglawas subong nga tuig nga si Alyssa Marie Redondo bilang second runner-up.
Ginpatigayon ang 2024 competition sa Egypt kun sa diin nakuha man ni Alyssa ang Best in Swimsuit award kag ang Power of Beauty Special award nga amo ang nag-fast-track sa iya sa Final 7.
Nagpasalamat naman ang 23-anyos nga nurse sa nangin kabahin sang iya pageant journey ilabi na sa iya pageant sisters nga nangin abyan naman niya.
Nakuha sang Puerto Rico ang korona subong nga tuig samtang ang mga kandidata sang Venezuela, Vietnam, Germany, kag USA amo ang runners-up.
Duha pa lamang ka mga Pinay sa maragtas ang nakadaog sang Miss Intercontinental crown nga amo sanday Karen Gallman (2018) kag Cinderella Faye Obeñita (2021).
‘Baby Daez 2025’: Megan Young, nagabusong na sang ila 1st baby ni Mikael
Malipayon nga gin-anunsyo sang celebrity couple nga sanday Megan Young kag Mikael Daez nga ginapaabot na nila ang first baby sa 2025.
Ginpaagi sang beauty queen-actress kag actor ang maayo nga balita sa Super Mario-inspired video announcement sa Instagram.
Gin-flash ang “Player Number 3” sa screen kag ginpakita man ang ultrasound film kag ang baby bump ni Megan.
Sunod nga ginhalukan ni Mikael si Megan sa ulo kag nagtapos ang video nga may nakabutang nga “Baby Daez 2025.”
Bonez & Fofo & Baby Daez,” caption nila sa Instagram.
Kilala sila nga duha nga nagatawganay bilang si “Bonez” kag “Fofo.”
Base sa past interviews sang mag-asawa, ginpakigbahin nga wala gid nila gindalian ang pag-angkon sang anak.
May isa man ka podcast sang 2022 nga naka-ako ang beauty queen nga nahadlok siya nga magbusong.
If it’s not, then tatanggapin ko rin,” kabahin sang pahayag ni Megan sang 2022.
Nahibaluan nga na-engage ang duha sang 2014 apang madugay pa antes ginpahibalo sa publiko.
Anthony Jennings, nag-sorry kanday Maris kag Jam: ‘Humihingi ako ng tawad sa dalawang babae’
Nagpaguwa na sang statement ang aktor nga si Anthony Jennings kaangot sa kontrobersiya nga ginakaulamiran sini kaupod ang ex-girlfriend nga si Jamela Villanueva kag iya on-screen partner nga si Maris Racal.
Malip-ot lamang ang pahayag nga ginbuy-an ni Anthony subong nga Biyernes, Disyembre 6, kun sa diin nagpangayo ini sang pasaylo sa mga tawo nga iya nasakit ilabi na sanday Maris kag Jam.
Nag-sorry man ini sa tanan nga nadalahig sa isyu.
“Sa lahat ho ng mga nangyari noong nakaraang araw, sa lahat ho ng mga taong nasaktan ko, especially po si Maris atsaka si Jam, humihingi ho ako ng tawad sa dalawang babae, and sa mga lahat po ng mga nadamay ko rin po,” pahayag sini.
Ini nga statement ni Anthony ang ginpaguwa pila ka oras lamang matapos nag-atubang man si Maris sa media kag nagpanugid sang iya “version” sa istorya.
Naglupok ang isyu sang Martes sang gab-i sang gin-post ni Jam ang screenshots sang private kag intimate conversations sa tunga nanday Maris kag Anthony nga ginaalegar natabo sang tion nga magkarelasyon pa sanday Jam kag ang actor.
Sa interview kay Maris kaina sang udto, ginsiling sini nga tuman ang iya kahuya nga naglapta ini nga mensahe nga pribado lamang kuntani.
Dahil nakita lahat ng tao yun without my consent–– against my will,” pahayag sini.
14 minutos ang statement ni Maris kag nagahibi sang ginsugid sini ang timeline sang nagkalatabo — halin sang nagsugod ang “brewing attraction” sa ila ni Antony sang Hunyo, tubtub sang gin-anunsyo sini ang ila break-up ni Rico Blanco, kag tubtub sini lang nga Nobyembre kun sa diin nakapadala pa siya sang mensahe kay Jam apang wala nakasabat.
Ginpaathag ni Maris nga sang tion nga gin-entertain sini si Anthony, nagpati gid siya nga bulagay na sanday Anthony kag Jam bangud amo man ini ang ginpapati sang actor sa iya.
Apisar pa sini nga sirkumstansya, ginklaro man ni Maris sa iya statement nga wala siya nagapa-“victim” bangud sa pagkamatuod, gina-ako niya ang iya nahimo nga sala, gina-angkon ang “full accountability”, kag nagapangayo gid sang pasaylo sa natabo.
Ganun talaga ako pag nabigay ng pagmamahal.
Alam nila lahat na ginapang ko yung career ko mapunta lang san ko gusto.
Ginawa ko lahat, pinaghirapan ko lahat sa tulong nila–– nagagawa ko yung mga gusto ko.”
I’m so embarrassed and I’m sorry you get to see that,” dugang sini samtang nagahilibion.
Ginpasalig sini nga apisar sang isyu kag apisar wala siya nakahibalo kun sa diin siya padulong, indi siya mag-untat sa iya karera.
Hindi pa rin namamatay yung apoy sa puso ko.”
What you saw was a human being and I really am just a human being,” ang iya pagtapos sa iya malawig nga statement.
Nagsabat na ang actress nga si Maris Racal kasunod sang kontrobersiya sa tunga nila sang actor nga si Anthony Jennings.
Dahil nakita lahat ng tao yun without my consent–– against my will.
Kaya pala hindi siya makarelease ng statement dahil sila pa pala this whole entire time.
Suno kay Maris, tuman ini nga nahuy-an sa ginhimo nga pagwa sang mga screenshots sang private messages sa tunga sang actor kag sang actress.
Matandaan nga ginbulgar sang ex-girlfriend ni Anthony nga si Jam Villanueva ang ginapahayag pagpangtonto sa iya sang actor kag sang actress.
Sa mga screenshots nga gin-post ni Jam sa iya Instagram story, mabasa ang sweet conversations nanday Anthony kag Maris.
Nagwa man sa mga istoryahanay nanday Anthony kag Maris nga may ginhimo ang mga ini nga sexuaI activities.
Smoke then fvck, I’ll touch myself nalang,” pahayag ni Maris kay Anthony.
Suno kay Jam, tatlo ka bulan niya nga gin-antos ang ginhimo nga pagpangtonto nanday Anthony kag Maris bangud nagapati siya nga “method acting” lang ang ginahimo sang duha, ilabi na nga may gina-agyan pa sadto ang actress.
Matandaan nga Hunyo sang gin-anunsyo ni Maris nga bulagay na sila sang singer nga si Rico Blanco.
Apang, tuman nga nasakitan si Jam sang makit-an ang picture nanday Anthony kag Maris nga naga-kiss samtang ginasaulog sang actor ang iya birthday.
Jam Villanueva, mahimo makasuhan kasunod sang gin-post nga screenshots — celebrity lawyer
Posible nga mangatubang sang kaso ang ex-girlfriend ni Anthony Jennings nga si Jamela Villanueva kasunod sang pagpaguwa sini sang mga “resibo” sa ginaalegar pagluib sang aktor sa ila relasyon kaupod ang on-screen partner sini nga si Maris Racal.
Martes sang gab-i sang gin-post ni Jam paagi sa iya Instagram stories ang screenshots sang private messages sa tunga nanday Anthony kag Maris sang tion nga magkarelasyon pa sanday Anthony kag Jam.
Suno naman sa celebrity lawyer nga si Atty.
Joji Villanueva Alonso, pananglitan “legit” gid man ang screenshots, nagapabilin ang kamatuoran nga wala sang krimen nga nahimo sanday Maris kag Anthony.
Bisan “morally wrong” ang ila ginhimo kag ginaulan subong sang pagpakamalaot, indi sila kasado sa ila partners suno sa abogado gani wala sila sang nalapas sa layi.
Sa pihak nga bahin, posible nga duha ka krimen ang nahimo ni Jam bangud sa iya ginhimo — ang cyber libel kag violation of data privacy.
Indi man marason suno sa abogado nga naga-“move on” ini bangud bisan nasakitan ini kag gintunto, indi ini rason para nga lapason sini ang layi.
Yari ang kabug-usan nga post sang abogado:
Isa tubtub sa tatlo ka tuig nga pagka-preso kag multa nga P500,000 tubtub sa P1-million ang penalidad sa mga matumod nga nagalapas sa sini nga layi.
Sa pihak nga bahin, matapos naman naglupok ang isyu kanday Maris kag Anthony, nag-anunsyo ang isa ka cosmetics brand nga Dazzle Me nga ginatapos na sini ang ila partnership sa actress.
Ginkumpirma sang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) nga ginpaguwa na sa detention ang aktres kag negosyante nga si Neri Naig alas sais kagab-i, Disyembre 4,
Ginserbe ang court order para sa iya release sa isa ka ospital kun sa diin nagpaidalom siya sa medical evaluation.
Nobyembre 23 sang gindakop ang actress-entrepreneur bangud sa kaso nga syndicated estafa kag violation sang Securities Regulation Code.
Gilayon nga nag-file ang iya kampo sang motion to quash batok sa warrant of arrest bangud sa argumento nga wala gid ginpahibalo ang aktres nga may alegasyon kag complaint batok sa iya.
Sini lang nga Miyerkules, gin-grant sang Pasay City Regional Trial Court ang motion kag ginsugo ang Office of the Prosecutor nga mag-imbestigar liwat kaangot sa kaso.
Natukiban sa court documents nga gin-isyuhan sang subpoena si Neri halin sa prosecutor’s office apang gindul-ong ini sa sala nga address.
Bangud sini suno sa korte, ang kakulang sa nagakaigu nga notice ang nagalapas sa constitutional right sini sa due process of law kag naga-invalidate sa preliminary investigation nga una gin-conduct sang prosecutors.
Kadungan sang desisyon, gin-deny sang korte ang isa pa ka motion ni Neri nga i-withdraw ang information of the case.
Sa statement sang kampo sang aktres, ginsiling nga gina-abi-abi gid ang court order sa iya release kag nagalaum nga malimpyuhan ang iya pangalan sa himuon nga reinvestigation.
Nahibaluan nga nangin endorser kag franchisee ni Neri sang Dermacare – Beyond Skin Care Solutions nga nagapangatubang man sang alleged violation sang Securities Regulation Code.
Sang September 2023, nakapaguwa sang advisory ang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) batok sa kumpaniya bangud indi ini otorisado nga mag-solicit sang investments bangud indi ini rehistrado kag wala sang lisensya nga magbaligya sang securities.
Sang amo man nga tuig, ginklaro ni Neri nga indi na siya affiliated sa Dermacare kag ang anuman nga transaction nga nagagamit sa iya pangalan ang indi authorized kag ginhimo lamang nga wala sang pahanugot halin sa iya.
Pasay City Regional Trial Court, ginmando nga buy-an ang actress nga si Neri Naig
Ginmando sang korte sa Pasay City nga buy-an ang napreso nga aktres kag negosyante nga si Neri Naig.
Jayrex Bustinera, nabaton na nila ang release order.
Si Neri ang gin-aresto sang nagligad nga semana bangud sa mga kaso nga estafa kag paglapas sa Securities Regulation Code.
Gin-akusaran man ini sa pagganyat sa mga indibidwal nga mag-invest sa isa ka skin care company nga indi otorisado nga magpangayo sang capital sa publiko.
Ginpanginwala naman sang kampo ni Neri ang mga akusasyon kag ginpanindugan nga biktima lang ini.
Arraignment sang aktres nga si Neri Naig-Miranda para sa kaso nga syndicated estafa, wala nadayon
Wala nadayon ang arraignment sang aktres nga si Neri Naig-Miranda para sa kaso nga syndicated estafa nga ginpasaka batok sa iya.
Suno sa Pasay City Regional Trial Court Branch 112, nagahulat pa sila sang komento halin sa prosecutor matapos nag-file sang motion to quash ang kampo sang aktres.
Sa subong, nagapabilin ang aktres kag businesswoman sa ospital para sa medical evaluation.
Natalana naman ini nga magbalik sa Pasay City Jail’s female dormitory sa Mierkules (subong nga adlaw).
Matandaan nga gin-aresto si Neri sa basement sang convention center sa sulod sang mall sa Pasay City sang Nobyembre 23.
Nagapangatubang ini sang panumbungon nga syndicated estafa kag 14 counts sang violation sang Securities Regulation Code.
Ang legal issue batok kay Neri ang naangot sa mga tseke nga gin-isyu sang Dermacare-Beyond Skin Care Solutions sa mga investors, nga nagsugod sa pag-bounce matapos nagpagwa ang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) sang advisory batok sa kompaniya.
Suno sa SEC, indi otorisado ang Dermacare nga mag-solicit sang investments bangud indi ini rehistrado kag wala sang lisensya nga magbaligya sang securities.
Si Neri ang nangin endorser kag franchisee sang Dermacare sang October 2020, apang gin-anunsyo niya sang Septyembre 2023 nga indi na ini konektado sa kompaniya.
Mangin ang actress nga si Rufa Mae Quinto, nga endorser man sang Dermacare, ang nagapangatubang man sang kaangay nga panumbungon.
Ginapangita naman sang otoridad si certain Chanda Atienza, nga ginapahayag nga tag-iya sang Dermacare.
Sa pinakauna nga kahigayunan, ginpagwa ni Jam Villanueva ang screenshots agud pamatud-an ang ginapahayag pagpangtonto sa iya sang iya ex-boyfriend nga si Anthony Jennings kag sang actress nga si Maris Racal.
Rufa Mae Quinto, kumpirmado nga may yara man sang warrant of arrest
Ginkumpirma sang abogado sang actress nga si Rufa Mae Quinto nga may yara ini sang standing warrant of arrest.
Mary Louise Reyes, nagapangatubang si Rufa Mae sang kaso nga kaangot man sa isyu sang Dermacare nga amo man ang kumpaniya nga involved kun ngaa gindakop man ang actress-entrepreneur nga si Neri Naig nga asawa ni Chito Miranda.
Kaangay kay Neri, nangin celebrity endorser man ang 46-anyos nga komedyante sang Dermacare nga subong kontrobersyal bangud sa investment scam.
Suno sa legal counsel ni Quinto, 14 counts sang paglapas sa Section 8 sang Securities Regulation Code ang iya ginapangatubang.
Sa layi nga ini nakasaad nga ang securities kaangay sang shares kag investments ang indi mahimo mabaligya sa Pilipinas nga wala sang registration statement nga duly filed sa/kag naaprubahan sang SEC.
Apang sa statement sang abogado, ginklaro nga wala sang large-scale estafa complaint nga gin-file batok kay Rufa.
Maga-surrender ini sa otoridad kag magapyansa suno kay Reyes.
Sa subong, yara pa ang aktres sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
“Ni hindi sa kanya nakapagbayad ng downpayment, tapos ‘yung mga tseke po puro tumalbog.
Lahat po ‘yan hawak naman po namin ‘yung ebidensya, ipe-present naming sa court.”
Wala pa sang klaro kun maga-file man sang kaso si Rufa kasunod sini.
Matandaan nga sang Septyembre 2023, nagpaguwa sang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) sang advisory natuhoy sa Dermacare-Beyond Skin Care Solutions.
Ginpahayag nga indi otorisado ang amo nga kumpaniya nga mag-solicit sang investments bangud indi sila rehistrado kag wala sang lisensya nga magbaligya sang securities.
Sa amo nga advisory sang ahensya, ginsiling nga pwede makasuhan pati ang salesmen, brokers, dealers, agents, promoters, influencers, kag endorsers sang Dermacare.
Sang nagligad nga semana, gindakop man si Neri bangud sa amo man nga violation sa Securities Regulation Code, apang wala ini nakaguwa tubtub subong, bangud nangatubang man ini sang syndicated estafa case nga wala sang piyansa.
Sarah G., Regine, Vice, nagakabagay man himuan sang Madame Tussauds statues—Anne Curtis
Ginhingadlan sang host-actress nga si Anne Curtis kun sin-o ang celebrities nga gusto sini nga mahimuan man sang wax figures sang prestihiyoso nga Madame Tussauds.
Si Anne ang pang-lima nga Pinoy nga nahimuan sang amo kabantog nga statue kasunod kanday Manny Pacquiao, Pia Wurtzbach, Catriona Gray, kag Lea Salonga.
Yara sa Singapore branch ang ginhimo para kay Lea nga ginsapubliko subong nga tuig samtang yara naman sa Hong Kong ang iya sang iban kag kay Anne.
Kun si Anne ang pamangkuton, gusto sini nga makaangkon sang wax figure si Sarah Geronimo nga pareho man sa suhestyon sang Filipino Broadway icon nga si Lea sang siya ang ginpamangkot.
Ginmensyonar man ni Anne ang isa pa ka veteran singer nga si Regine Velasquez kag ang iya abyan nga host nga si Vice Ganda bangud para sa iya isa ini ka amazing representation sang LGBTQIA community.
Kun sa aktor naman, pillion ni Anne si Coco Martin bangud siya ang “longest-running action star on television” kag si Kathryn Bernardo nga naangot man sa Hong Kong bangud sa iya blockbuster film nga “Hello, Love, Goodbye”.
Gin-mensyonar man ni Anne ang Nation’s Girl Group nga BINI kag ang two-time Olympic gold medalist nga si Carlos Yulo.
Sa separado nga interview, ginsiling sang Sales and Marketing head sang Madame Tussauds Hong Kong nga viable names sa masunod nga mga Pinoy nga himuan sang wax figures sanday Vice, Sarah, Regine, kag si Carlos.#
Lea Salonga, nag-perform kaupod ang ‘Sesame Street’ sa US Thanksgiving Day Parade
Nagbalik ang Filipina Broadway icon nga si Lea Salonga sa pag-perform kaupod sa longtime favorite sang kabataan nga “Sesame Street” kadungan sang Thanksgiving Day Parade sa New York City sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Bisan maulanon, madinalag-on nga napakita kag napabati sang Filipina theater star ang rendition sang “Sing” kaupod sa characters kaangay kanday Big Bird, Elmo, Oscar the Grouch, Cookie Monster, Ernie, kag iban pa.
Gintawag man sang Tony-award-winning singer nga espesyal ang amo nga gab-i.
Sini lang nga Nobyembre sang gin-release sang Pinay singer ang holiday album nga “Sounding Joy” kun sa diin nalakip ang collaboration kay Clay Aiken.
Sini man nga 2024, napilian man si Lea nga ikaapat nga Pinoy nga ginhimuan sang wax figure sa prestiyoso nga Madame Tussauds.
Nahibaluan nga sang 1993, may guest appearance man si Lea sa Sesame Street.
Sang amo nga tion, bag-o lang sini nadag-an ang Tony Award sa Miss Saigon bilang Best Lead Actress in a Musical.#
Anthony Jennings, ginkumpirma ang break-up sa non-showbiz partner, ginklaro nga friends lang sila ni Maris
Ginkumpirma sang actor nga si Anthony Jennings nga bulagay na sila sang iya non-showbiz partner apang ginklaro man sini nga indi involved ang iya on-screen partner nga si Maris Racal.
Pahayag ni Anthony nga kilala man bilang si Snoop Manansala sa romantic drama series nga “Can’t Buy Me Love”, binulan na sila nga nag-break sang iya ex-girlfriend nga si Jam Villanueva.
Gindugang sini nga siya ang may kakulangan kag personal ang rason sang ila breakup kag nagpamalibad na nga maghatag sang dugang nga statement bangud pribado nga tawo ang iya ex kag indi man kabahin sang entertainment industry.
Naghingyo man ini sa netizens nga indi na pagsabadon si Jam.
Months ago na nung naghiwalay kami ni Jam,” pahayag ni Jennings.
“Request ko lang din sa lahat syempre na ginugulo ‘yung ibang tao, si Jam naman, hindi naman siya artista, pribado ‘yung buhay niya, and sa akin naman, ako ‘yung may pagkukulang dun, problema ko ‘yun, dapat kong ayusin ‘yun magisa.”
Pahayag pa sini, indi man dapat pagdalahigon ang iya on-screen partner nga si Maris bangud mag-abyan lang sila nga duha.
“‘yun nga, sa lahat ng mga nanggugulo rin sa dalawa—kay Maris din, nadadamay si Maris—magkaibigan lang po kami.
Ini nga klaripikasyon ang kasunod sang pag-viral sang TikTok reposts ni Jam sang nagliligad nga bulan kun sa diin naistoryahan ang pain, girl instinct, kag cheating nga madasig naman nga gin-angot sang netizens sa breakup nila ni Jennings.
Nabutang man sa sentro sang kontrobersiya ang pangalan ni Maris nga ka-loveteam sang actor.
Hulyo sang nag-ako si Maris nga natapos naman ang iya lima ka tuig nga relasyon sa 51-anyos nga singer-songwriter nga si Rico Blanco apang ginklaro man sini nga indi si Jennings ang rason sang ila pagbulagay.
Mainly me, I’m the issue,” kabahin anay sang pahayag ni Maris sa press conference.#
Neri Naig, magapaligad sang Paskuwa kag New Year sa presuhan, indi paghatagan sang special treatment
Daku ang posibilidad nga sa Pasay City Jail Female Dormitory maligaran sang Christmas kag New Year ang actress-entrepreneur nga si Neri Naig.
Gin-anunsyo nga gin-reschedule sang korte ang arraignment sa iya kaso sa Enero 2025.
Suno sa legal counsel sang complainants, nag-isyu ang Pasay City Regional Trial Court sang order bilang sabat sang motion to quash the warrant of arrest nga gin-file sang kampo naman sang former actress.
Lakip man sa gin-file sang mga abogado ni Neri amo ang withdrawal sang information, buksan liwat ang preliminary investigation, kag release custody.
Ginhatagan naman ang complainants sang lima ka adlaw agud magsabat sa motion
Nagapangatubang si Neri sang kaso nga ginaalegar paglapas sa Securities Regulation Code kag syndicated estafa nga non-bailable case.
Una na nga ginpaathag sang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) nga nagpanghaylo si Neri sa mga tawo nga mag-invest sa skin care company nga indi otorisado sa pag-solicit sang invesments halin sa publiko.
Kun basehan naman ang pahayag sang kampo sang aktres, biktima man siya sa sini nga kaso.
Nagpahayag naman ang Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP) nga wala sang special treatment sa actress bangud ibutang man ini sa selda kun sa diin may 150 ka iban pa nga mga preso.
Una na nga nagdepensa ang bana ni Neri nga si Chito Miranda nga wala gid sang notice nga nahatag kay Neri nga ginkasuhan siya kag insigida lang siya nga gindakop samtang yara sa convention center sang nagligad nga semana.
Ginklaro sang aktor nga si Niño Muhlach nga wala sang settlement nga matabo sa ila kaso nga gin-file batok sa duha ka independent contractors sang daku nga TV network nga sanday Jojo Nones kag Richard “Dode” Cruz.
Rape through sexual assault kag acts of lasciviousness case ang gin-file batok sa duha bangud sa gin-alegar nga ila ginhimo kay Sandro nga anak ni Niño.
Sa interviews, una na nga nakaplastar ang mga Muhlach nga indi sila magpa-areglo, apang nakalahog si Niño nga ginsilingan sini si Sandro nga kun mag-P100-million na ang ihatag sa ila, patawaron na lang ang pihak nga kampo.
Pero sabi ko, ‘Kung PHP100 million na, magpatawad ka na, anak.
Matuto kang magpatawad!'” pahayag sang former Child Wonder.
Apisar joke ini, madamo ang nag-seryoso sang statement sang actor kag nagsiling nga ginabaligya sini si Sandro.
May mga nag-lecture pa nga wala sang bayad ang dignidad kag wala dapat ginabakal ang hustisya.
Sa separado nga statement, gin-athag ni Niño nga indi dapat pagseryosohon ang iya komento.
“Para sa mga hindi marunong mag differentiate ng joke at ng totoong comments, para sa inyo ito!
Agusto 19 sang gin-file ni Sandro ang complaints batok kanday Nones kag Cruz.
Sa hearings sang Senate committee on public information and mass media, ginplastar ni Sandro kun paano siya gin-alegar nga gin-molestyahan kag gintudluan nga maggamit sang illegal drugs nanday Nones kag Cruz kasunod sang isa ka gala sang July 20.
Sunod nga nag-file ang DOJ sang criminal cases batok sa independent contractors sa Pasay City Regional Trial Court sang nagligad nga October.#
Tuman ang kalipay sang award-winning actress nga si Anne Curtis — ang ginbansagan nga “Diyosa” sa Philippine showbiz — matapos ginsapubliko na sang prestihiyoso nga Madame Tussauds ang iya wax figure.
Pagasayluhon ini sa Madame Tussauds museum sa The Peak sa Hong Kong kun sa diin si Anne ang mangin una nga Filipino actress kag host nga iga-display sa museum.
Madamo ang naka-apresyar bangud kopya gid sa figure pati ang magagmay nga detalye sa nawong sang aktres — halin sa moles, freckles, kag ang iya pagyuhom.
Nagalaum man ini nga madamo nga mga Pilipino ang magabisita sa figure sa Hong Kong, kag ginbalikan man ang popular nga joke nga sigurado nga “gets” ilabi na sang iya fans.
“I know it’s been a long-time running joke of like, umuuwi ang ating mga kababayan tuwing birthday ko.
Ang Madame Tussauds isa ka world famous wax museum nga kilala sa lifelike sculptures sang global stars kag icons.
Sang 2023 sang nag-selebrar si Anne sang iya ika-25 nga tuig sa show business.
Sa guwa naman sang entertainment industry, kilala ang host-actress bilang UNICEF Philippines National Ambassador, kag isa ka proud mom sa ila isa isahanon nga anak ni Erwan Heussaff nga si Dahlia Amelie.
Ang iban pa nga mga Pinoy nga may wax figures sa bantog nga Madame Tussauds museums amo sanday Miss Universe 2015 Pia Wurtzbach kag Manny Pacquiao nga naka-display sa Hong Kong; kag Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray nga naka-display sa Singapore.#
Chito Miranda, gindepensahan si Neri Naig matapos gin-aresto sang mga pulis
Nagpaguwa sang statement ang Parokya ni Edgar frontman nga si Chito Miranda agud depensahan ang iya asawa nga si Neri Naig nga gindakop sang mga pulis bangud sa ginaalegar nga estafa kag paglapas sa Securities Regulation Code.
Sa isa ka social media post, ginsiling sang OPM icon nga endorser lamang si Neri kag ang iya nawong ang gingamit para nga makakuha sang investors.
Gindugang sini nga nakapangatubang na sang kaangay nga kaso si Neri sang una apang gin-dismiss sang korte.
Gin-athag man sini nga wala gid naka-preparar ang iya asawa bangud wala man ini sang nabaton nga notice nga may bag-o nga criminal complaint batok sa iya.
“Praying na ma-sort out na ang lahat ng ito…kawawa naman yung asawa ko.
Never nanloko si Neri, at never sya nanlamang sa kapwa.
Never siyang kumuha or nanghingi ng pera kahit kanino man.
Tulong lang sya ng tulong hangga’t kaya nya.
Kadalasan nga, naaabuso na sya pero hinahayaan nya nalang, basta wala syang ginawang masama.
Tulad ngayon, endorser lang sya tapos ginamit yung face nya to get investors.
Tapos last week, bigla na lang syang inaresto for the same case kahit hindi pa sya binigyan ng notice na may bagong criminal complaint pala laban sa kanya, and di nya na-defend yung sarili nya.
Yung mga dati, nareceive namin nya, at nag comply sya, (alam naman ng lahat na madali kami mahanap sa Alfonso) Anyway, dinampot na lang sya bigla.
(Nadismiss na yung mga similar na kaso sa ibang lugar, and we’re praying na sana ma-dismiss na din ito.)
Wala siyang kinuhang pera sa ibang tao, lahat ng pera nila na kay Chanda, ang may ari ng Dermacare.
Eto yung babaeng kinulong ninyo without bail, habang nakalaya pa yung mga tunay na may kasalanan.”
Una na nga ginkumpirma sang Southern Police District (SPD) nga may gin-aresto sila nga 41-year-old actress kag businesswoman nga so alias “Erin” sa convention center sa isa ka mall sa Pasay City sang Sabado.
Ginlista si Neri nga 7th most wanted person sa station level bangud sa 14 counts sang paglapas sa Securities Regulation Code nga may recommended bail nga P126,000 sa kada count.
Wala naman sang ginrekomenda nga piyansa sa kaso nga syndicated estafa.
Sunod nga ginpahibalo nga halin sa Pasay PNP Custodial Facility, ginsaylo si Neri sa Pasay City Jail sang 12:02 sang udto, November 26.
Nakasuksok siya sang jacket kag mask sang gin-commit sa pasilidad.
kag Regine Velasquez, nanguna sa listahan sang mga artists nga nominado para Aliw Awards 2024
Gin-anunsyo na sang 37th Aliw Awards ang listahan sang mga artists nga nominado sa nagkalain-lain nga mga kategorya sang live events kaangay sang concerts, theater plays and productions, recording kag iban pa.
May yara sang 50 ka mga categories kun sa diin pila sa mga nominado amo ang grupo nga BINI, amo man sanday Sarah Geronimo, Regine Velasquez-Alcasid, Ogie Alcasid, Martin Nievera kag Karylle.
Ang theater powerhouse nga si Lea Salonga ang maga-compete kontra kay Dolly de Leon para sa Best Lead Actress in a Play.
Kalakip man sa sini nga category amo si Iza Calzado para sa “Tiny Beautiful Things.”
Ang awarding ceremonies patigayunon sa December 18, 2024 sa Manila.
Nakaguwa na sa ospital ang beterana nga aktres nga si Nadia Montenegro matapos nagpaidalom sa heart surgery.
Madamo ang nagkabalaka iya kondisyon matapos na-report nga apat ka minutos siya nga nangin kritikal matapos nga na-cardiac ukon respiratory arrest samtang ginapatigayon ang heart procedure sang November 20.
She is now out of danger,” suno sa iya anak nga si Ynna Asistio.
Nagpaguwa naman sang video message si Nadia nga naga-siguro sa fans nga okay lang siya kag ginpakigbahin man ang eksperyensya nga ginalantaw sini nga pagpanghangkat sa iya pagtuo sa Diyos.
Ginpahayag sini nga ablation procedure ang ginhimo sa iya korason.
Ini nga medical procedure ang nagagamit sang hot or cold energy para maghimo sang “tiny scars” sa heart tissue kag ang pagpeklat halin diri ang nagabulig para punggan ang pag-produce sang “irregular rhythms” sa korason.
4-5 hours to get to my heart pero 10-30 minutes lang Ablation procedure.” Sang natapos na, nag-update man ini sa group chat sang ila pamilya: “I made it.” Apang may kasugpon nga, “Although nag-code blue [kanina], four minutes ako nawala.
Antes sini, suno sa aktres, may history na siya sang Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome nga isa ka congenital heart defect kun sa diin madasig ang pagpitik sang heart nga sa bahin ni Nadia nakadangat anay sa 160 to 190 beats per minute.
Nagpasalamat ini sa mga nagbulig sa pagpangamuyo para sa iya kag nagpasalig nga magapabaskog siya liwat agud makabalik sa trabaho.
Robin Padilla, kag actor nga si Chuckie Dreyfus.#
10 ka adlaw pa lang ang “Hello, Love, Again” sa mga sinehan apang naagaw na sini ang titulo nga highest grossing Filipino film of all time.
Ini nga box office title ang gin-uyatan anay sang 2023 Metro Manila Film Festival entry nga “Rewind” sang mag-asawa nga sanday Dingdong Dantes kag Marian Rivera.
Ang “Rewind” amo ang first Filipino film nga nakakolekta sang masobra P900 million sa worldwide box office kag kabug-usan nga nakakuha sang P924 million sa bug-os nga theatrical run.
Apang sanday Kath kag Alden na subong ang bag-o nga box-office record holders nga yara subong sa United States agud magtambong sa 10th Asian World Film Festival sa Culver City, California kaupod ang iban nga cast members.
Ginalantaw nga mas magadaku pa ang income bangud ginapakita ang pelikula sa masobra 1,000 cinemas sa kalibutan lakip na sa US, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Saipan, kag Guam kag buksan man sa Asian countries (outside the Philippines) kag mga teritoryo sa masunod nga semana.
Ginhimo ang “Hello, Love, Again” sa idalom sang direksyon ni Cathy Garcia-Sampana kag amo ang sequel sa 2019 blockbuster movie nga “Hello, Love, Goodbye.”
Antes ini nga movie, isa lang ka pelikula sa masobra 40 local mainstream films sa Pilipinas nga ginpakita sang 2024 ang may mayo nga record sa box office kag ini amo ang Un/Happy for You sang mag-ex nga sanday Joshua Garcia kag Julia Barreto nga naka-P390 million sa ticket sales as of September 2.
Kun ikaw isa ka solid Directioner, mahimo nga isa ka man sa naghandum nga makit-an liwat ang mga miyembro sang One Direction nga mag-updanay kag magkanta nga daw kaangay nga wala lamang nag-disband sang 2016.
Antes magtakop ang 2024, natabo ang ila pag-updanay liwat — indi sa entablado — kundi sa funeral sang anay One Direction star nga si Liam Payne.
Lunsay nagasuksok sang itom sanday Louis Tomlinson, Harry Styles, Zayn Malik, kag Niall Horan sang nagkadto sa funeral ni Liam sa St.
Mary’s Church sa Amersham sa Buckinghamshire nga malapit sa London, Britain.
Nag-abot sa simbahan ang lungon ni Liam nga may floral tributes nga nakabutang nga “Son” kag “Daddy”.
Nagtalangison naman ang ginikanan ni Liam kag gin-updan sang iya duha ka utod, girlfriend sini nga si Kate Cassidy, kag iya former partner nga si Cheryl Tweedy nga amo man ang iloy sang bata ni Liam nga si Bear.
Lakip man sa nagkadto amo ang actor kag TV host nga si James Corden kag si Simon Cowell nga amo ang music mogul nga nagtukod sang One Direction paagi sa X Factor talent show sa Britanya sadtong 2010 antes nagbantog ang grupo kag nahimo nga isa sa best selling boy bands of all time.
Kilala sila sa hit singles kaangay sang “Night Changes”, “What Makes You Beautiful,” “Live While We’re Young,” “Best Song Ever,” “Story of My Life”, kag iban pa.
Oktubre 16 sang napatay si Liam matapos nahulog gikan sa balkonahe sa ikatatlo nga panalgan sang Casa Sur Hotel sa Buenos Aires nga kapital sang Argentina.
31-anyos pa lamang ang British star sang tion nga ginbawian sang kabuhi bangud sa “multiple traumas” kag “internal and external hemorrhaging” base sa post-mortem examination.
Antes ang iya kamatayon, nakatawag pa ang hotel staff sang duha ka beses sa emergency services kaangot sa ila guest nga natam-an sa epekto sang drugs kag alcohol kag naga-wild sa isa ka hotel room.
Sunod nga ginkumpirma sang mga imbestigador nga yara si Liam sa “episode of substance abuse” antes ang insidente.
Matapos na-detect ang alcohol, cocaine kag prescription antidepressant sa lawas sang music star, naghulag ang Argentine prosecutors agud pasakaan sang kaso ang tatlo ka mga tawo nga naangot sa paghatag sa iya sang iligal nga droga kag pag-abandona sa iya kasunod sa iya kamatayon.
Padayon nga nagabubo ang mensahe sang simpatiya kag kasubo ilabi na sa Original Pilipino Music (OPM) industry matapos ang kamatayon sang lead vocalist sang iconic band nga Aegis nga si Mercy Sunot.
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang 48-anyos nga singer samtang naka-confine sa Stanford Hospital and Clinics sa San Francisco, California sang gab-i sang Nobyembre 17 (Nobyembre 18 sang aga oras sa Pilipinas).
Wala pa ginpaguwa sang pamilya ang detalye kun san-o ini igabalik sa Pilipinas.
Didto ang singer sa California para sa treatment sa iya Stage 4 breast cancer kag lung cancer.
Inadlaw antes ang iya kamatayon, naka-video pa ang vocalist kag naghingyo sa iya fans nga ipangamuyo siya kasunod sang critical lung surgery.
Nangin emosyonal sini samtang naga-update sa iya kondisyon kaangay sang kabudlay sa pagginhawa samtang yara siya sa ICU.
Ginsiling sini nga ginhatagan siya sang steroids para mabuhinan ang inflammation.
Sa katapusan sini nga video, naggamit siya sang hashtags nga breast cancer warrior kag lung cancer warrior sa iya caption.
Yari ang full statement sang banda kasunod sang kamatayon ni Sunot:
Una nga nakilala ang Aegis sang ’90s bangud sa ila hit songs nga “Halik,” “Sayang na Sayang,” “Basang-Basa sa Ulan” kag “Luha.” Ang mga kanta sang banda ang na-feature man sa musical nga “Rak of Aegis.”
Magluwas kay Mercy, yara man sa banda ang iya mga utod nga sanday Juliet kag Ken kag ang iban pa amo sanday Stella Pabico, Rey Abenoja, Rowena Adriano, kag Vilma Goloviogo.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, na-selebrar pa nila ang ila 25th anniversary paagi sa concert sa Parañaque City nga amo ang una nga bes nga ginharana nila ang ila fans sang Christmas-themed songs kaupod man sang career-spanning Greatest Hits set.
May natalana pa sila nga pre-Valentine concert nga “Halik sa Ulan” sa Pebrero 1 kag 2, 2025 sa Quezon City.
Magalibot si Miss Universe Philippines Chelsea Manalo sa Asya kag magaupod sa official trips sang Miss Universe organization matapos gindeklarar nga labing-una nga Miss Universe Asia.
Natapos na ang pageant kahapon sang aga, Nobyembre 17, apang sa press conference kaupod ang pila ka executives, gin-anunsyo ang apat ka continental queens halin sa 125 ka mga kandidata nga nagpasakop sa long-running beauty pageant sa Mexico City.
Ini nga queens ang may kaangay man nga trabaho sa reigning Miss Universe bangud magaserbe sila bilang ambassadors para sa mga kontinente nga yara sa ila title.
Pananglitan indi ma-obra ni Victoria ang iya duties, si Chidimma amo ang magabulos sa title.
Big win naman ini kanday Tatiana kag Chelsea nga nangin suod nga mag-abyan sa pageant bangud roommates sila samtang yara sa Mexico.
Sang nabaton ni Chelsea ang sorpresa nga titulo, ginasuksok pa sini ang feathered tiffany evening gown nga himo sang Bulacan native nga si Manny Halasan nga wala maayo napakita sa stage bangud tubtub lamang sa Top 30 ang pambato sang Pilipinas.
Matapos ginkilala ang continental queens, naghatag man sang teaser ang Miss Universe Organization nga ang 2025 edition sang pageant ang posible nga patigayunon sa India, South Africa, Thailand, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Spain, Argentina, ukon sa Morocco.#
Nagpangibabaw ang katahom sang 21 anyos nga si Victoria sa 125 ka mga delegates sa coronation night nga ginpatigayon sa Arena CDMX sa Mexico City.
Ginpasuksok naman kay Victoria ang first-ever Filipino-made crown nga himo sang international jewelry brand nga Jewelmer sa diin makita ang South Sea Pearls sang Pilipinas.
Ginpasa naman ni Sheynnis Palacios sang Nicaragua ang korona.
Nalakip naman sa Top 5 amo ang mga masunod:
Samtang, tubtob lang sa Top 30 ang pambato sang Pilipinas nga si Chelsea Manalo.
Apang, napilian naman si Chelsea bilang Miss Universe Asia, isa sa mga Four Continental Queens sang Miss Universe.
Finals sang Miss Universe 2024, subong na nga aga
Balantayan na 9:00 subong nga aga oras sa Pilipinas ang finals sang Miss Universe 2024.
Pambato sang Pilipinas si Chelsea Manalo nga isa man sa ginalantaw sang global pageant observers nga may tyansa nga madala-pauli ang korona nga kun matabo amo na ang pang-lima nga Miss Universe crown sang pungsod.
Antes ang koronasyon, 125 ka mga kandidata ang nagpasakop sa preliminary competition lakip na sa national costume, swimsuit, kag evening gown categories.
Sa labing-una nga tion, parte ang national costume sa scoring nga magatumod kun sin-o ang makasulod sa first cut nga amo ang Top 30.
Masobra tatlo ka oras ang preliminaries kag nakuha ni Chelsea ang pagpabor sang publiko sa iya “Hiraya” costume nga nagapakita sang history sang Christianization kag Islam sa Pilipinas.
May mga namag-o naman sa ocean blue gown ni Chelsea nga himo sang designer ni Manny Halasan.
Isa ini ka large flowing blue dress nga naghatag sa beauty queen sang “Cinderella” look ilabi na sang naglibot-libot ini sa stage samtang manugguwa na ang mga kandidata.
Pang-siyam si Chelsea sa final hot picks sang Missosology kun sa diin ginkilala ini nga mangin dark horse sa kumpetisyon.
Ginkilala naman sang pageant observer nga frontrunners sanday Suchata Chuangsri sang Thailand kag Victoria Kjær Theilvig sang Denmark.
Yari ang full list sang ila final picks:
Patigayunon ini nga finals sang 73rd Miss Universe sa Mexico kun sa diin koronahan ni reigning queen Sheynnis Palacios ang iya successor.
Isa naman si Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray sang Pilipinas sa magaserbe nga backstage hosts.
Belle Mariano, napilian nga magkanta sa end credit song sang Pinoy version sang ‘Moana 2’
Gin-record sang 22-anyos nga aktres nga si Belle Mariano ang kanta nga “Anong Daratnan” nga amo ang special end credit song para sa Philippine release sang animated movie nga ‘Moana 2.’
Ginkumpirma ini sang Disney Studios Philippines kadungan sang pag-upload sang video kun sa diin nakit-an si Belle nga naga-promote sa kanta nga natalana nga i-release sa masunod nga semana.
Ang “Anong Daratnan” amo ang Tagalog version sang “Beyond” halin sa second “Moana” film sang Disney.
Natalana nga ipaguwa ang “Moana 2” sa Philippine cinemas sa Nobyembre 27.
Magluwas sa sini nga project, balantayan man si Belle kag iya screen partner nga si Donny Pangilinan sa new original Viu series nga “How To Spot A Red Flag” nga magasugod sa streaming sa November 25.
Nabuhinan sang isa pa gid ka kandidata ang Miss Universe competition apisar nga nagahinampot na ang koronasyon.
Ginkumpirma sang Miss South Africa Organization nga nag-atras ang ila kandidata nga si Mia Le Roux bangud sa problema sini sa ikaayong-lawas.
Sa official statement, ginpaathag sini nga indi mahapos para sa iya ang pag-withdraw apang nagapasalamat siya sa oportunidad nga makatutok sa iya recovery para maserbehan sini liwat sang bug-os kusog ang iya pungsod.
Nagpasalamat man ang beauty queen sa iya supporters sa South Africa.
Ginklaro naman sang Miss South Africa Organization nga suportado nila ang desisyon ni Mia kag ang iya health kag well-being amo gid ang nagapanguna nga prayoridad.
Antes kay Mia, nag-withdraw man si Italy Mora sang Panama apang ginklaro sang Miss Universe organization nga ini nga desisyon ang kasunod sang evaluation sang ila nga disciplinary commission.
Biyernes, Nobyembre 15, sang ginpatigayon ang preliminary competition sa Mexico City kun sa diin ang previous winners nga sanday R’Bonney Gabriel sang USA kag Sheynnis Palacos sang Nicaragua ang nagserbe nga hosts.
Domingo sang aga (Philippine time) ang koronasyon kun sa diin tinguhaan ni Chelsea Manalo nga makuha ang panglima nga Miss Universe crown para sa Pilipinas.#
Paolo Contis, nag-ako nga single matapos ang espekulasyon sa ila break-up ni Yen Santos
Gin-ako na sang 40-anyos nga aktor nga si Paolo Contis nga “single” siya subong.
Ini ang una nga bes nga nagprangka si Paolo anum ka bulan matapos nagguwa ang espekulasyon nga bulagay na sila sang aktres nga si Yen Santos.
Sa “Fast Talk with Boy Abunda”, ginpili ni Paolo ang “single” sang ginpamangkot sang host kun “single” siya ukon “taken.”
Mayo sang nagguwa ang huring-huring nga nag-break na sila sang 31-anyos nga aktres matapos nga gin-delete ni Yen ang iya birthday greeting sa actor sa Instagram.
Isa ka semana ang makaligad sadto, ginsiling ni Paolo nga gusto niya nga ipabilin anay nga “personal” kun matuod ini ukon indi.
Pagkasunod nga bulan, gin-unfollow na sini si Yen kag gin-private man ang account sa Instagram.
Nangin kontrobersyal ang relasyon sang duha bangud si Yen ang ginatudlo nga third party sa anay relasyon ni Paolo sa iya anay live-in partner nga si LJ Reyes.
Enero 2023 naman sang ginkumpirma ni Pao nga sila na ni Yen apang nagpanginwala sa third party allegations.
Sa pihak nga bahin, kasado naman si LJ sang Oktubre 2023 kay Philip Evangelista.
‘Lumalaban po ako at hindi tumatakbo palayo’ — Ken Chan sa kaso nga syndicated estafa
Nagpaguwa na sang statement si Ken Chan isa ka semana matapos ginkadtuan sang otoridad ang iya balay agud kuntani magserbe sang warrant of arrest kaangot sa kaso nga syndicated estafa.
Sa opisyal nga pahayag sang aktor, ginsiling sini nga wala siya nagpanunto sang tawo bangud ang matuod amo nga nakapatindog siya sang negosyo apang wala nagmadinalag-on kag ginpasira na lamang.
Ang gintumod sini nga business amo ang Café Claus nga ginaalegar may yara sang tatlo ka mga branch.
Ginpahayag man sini nga pila sa iya business partners ang nagplano para nga mapalpak ang kumpaniya kag higkuan ang iya pangalan.
Dugang sang aktor, magapaguwa siya sang dugang nga mga detalye kaangot sa kapaslawan ang negosyo.
Paathag niya, nadugayan siya sa pagpaguwa sang official statement bangud gin-address niya ang isyu sa legal nga proseso.
Ginpasalig man sni nga magabato siya kag indi niya pagpalagyuhan ang kaso batok sa iya, ilabi na bangud isa ka dekada na sini ginpangabudlayan ang iya karera kag indi sini pagtugutan nga maguba ang iya buwasdamlag.
“Isang mapagpalang araw po sa inyong lahat.
“Personal kong babasagin ang aking katahimikan sa kumakalat na version ng kaso na isinampa laban sa akin dahil sa pagkalugi ng itinayo naming negosyo na Café Claus na nagkaroon ng tatlong branches at nagsara.
“Hindi po ako nanloko ng tao, naitayo po ang negosyo ngunit hindi ito nagtagumpay.
“Hindi po dahil ito ang amount na isinampa laban sa akin ay ito na ang buong katotohanan.
Sasabihin ko po nang buong-buo ang actual na numero at detalye na masyado nang naging exaggerated dahil sariling panig pa lamang ng complainant ang inilabas nila.
“May mga bagay kami na kailangang ipaglaban lalo na kung bakit naisampa ito bilang syndicated estafa, na kung tutuusin ay dapat umiikot lamang sa pagkalugi ng negosyo.
“Ako naman po ang maglalabas ng mga detalye sa mga darating na pagkakataon dahil patuloy po ang pagdikdik sa akin ng mga taong gustong sirain ang pagkatao ko.
“Sa mga hakbang na ginawa nila mula pa noong nakaraang taon hanggang ngayon, makikita ninyo ang intensyon ng mga taong gusto akong pabagsakin.
“Kaunting panahon po at ilalabas ko lahat ang katotohanan kung bakit nangyari ito sa kumpanya.
Hindi po ako nanghingi lang ng pera at nanloko tulad ng akusasyon sa akin.
“Nalugi po ang Café Claus at isa sa malaking dahilan na rin ay dahil sa ilang business partners namin na nagplano para pabagsakin ang kumpanya at patuloy na sirain ang aking pangalan.
“Pinili ko pong manahimik pansamantala dahil sa una pa lamang po ay inilalaban ko na ito legally, kasama ng mga taong nagmamahal at sumusuporta sa akin sa sitwasyon kong ito.
Naniniwala ako na sa awa ng Panginoon ay mairaraos ko po ito.
“Lumalaban po ako at hindi tumatakbo palayo sa isinampang kaso sa akin.
Mahigit isang dekada kong pinaghirapan ang aking career at hindi dahil sa akusasyon ng iilan ang magtatapos ng napakagandang future na inilaan para sa akin ng Panginoon.
“Sa mga Companies at Brands na associated sa akin na naapektuhan sa sitwasyon na ito, paumanhin po sa inyong lahat.
Sa kabila ng lahat gusto kong magpasalamat sa pagsuporta at pag-unawa ninyo sa akin.
“At sa mga taong patuloy na nagmamahal at naniniwala sa akin, lalaban po ako.
Patuloy po ninyo akong isama sa mga panalangin ninyo.
Sang Biyernes, ginkadtuan sang mga pulis ang puluy-an ni Ken sa Quezon City para nga madul-ong ang arrest warrant nga naangot sa ginaalegar nga investment scam apang wala siya sa iya nga balay.
Maverick Romero sang Estrada & Aquino Law Office nga amo ang nagtiglawas sang complainant, si Ken kag pito ka iban pa nga akusado ang nagapangatubang sang kaso nga syndicated estafa.
Estrada, ginkumbinse ni Ken ang iya kliyente nga mag-invest sa alleged restaurant business para makabaton sang 10% monthly interest.
Ginsiling man sini nga si Ken kag iya grupo ang nag-solicit sang P14 million halin sa kliyente.
Una na nga gintuyo sang mga pulis nga magserbe sang warrant of arrest sang Septyembre sa balay ni Ken apang wala man ang aktor.
Sa idalom sang Article 315 sang Revised Penal Code, non-bailable ang syndicated estafa kag ang mapamatud-an nga guilty ang mahimo magpangatubang sang silot nga lifetime imprisonment.
Isa ka Filipino-Chinese actor si Ken kag kilala sa shows kaangay sang award-winning TV-series nga Destiny Rose, Meant to Be, kag pinaka-popular bilang si Boyet Villaroman sa romantic-drama series nga My Special Tatay.
May isa na naman ka achievement ang aktor nga si Gerald Anderson sa guwa sang showbiz industry matapos gin-promote ini bilang auxiliary captain sa Philippine Coast Guard Auxiliary (PCGA).
Ginpatigayon ang donning kag oath-taking ceremony sa BRP Teresa Magbanua.
Lakip sa nagtambong sa seremonya amo ang iya girlfriend nga si Julia Barreto nga nag-congratulate man sa iya paagi sa Instagram stories.
Na-recognize tayo ng idol natin sa ganitong sitwasyon and circumstances, di ba?
Si Senator Robin Padilla pa yung nag-pass ng resolution for this to happen,” suno sa actor.
“It’s always good to be here with the Philippine Coast Guard, nakapagbigay tayo ng high morale sa kanila, pinaparamdam natin sa kanila na we appreciate them,” pahayag pa sini.
Antes sini, nangin aktibo si Gerald sa pag-upod sa rescue operations halin pa sang Bagyo Ondoy sang 2009 tubtub sa mga bagyo subong nga 2024.
Nagabulig man siya sa Aeta community sa Zambales kag sa naga-recover nga mga pamilya sa Marawi kag nangin masako man sa pag-donate sang medical supplies kag tents sa kasagsagan sang COVID-19 pandemic.
Sang Agusto, si Anderson nga isa man ka Army reservist ang ginkilala sang Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) kag ginhatagan sang “search and rescue medal” bangud sa iya daku nga bulig sa pag-rescue sa mga na-trap bangud sa Bagyo Carina.
Ginkoronahan nga bag-o nga Miss International ang tiglawas sang Vietnam sa coronation night nga ginpatigayon sa Japan.
Ini amo si Huỳnh Thị Thanh Thủy nga nangibabaw gikan sa 70 ka mga kandidata.
Ini ang labing-una nga korona sang Vietnam sa maragtas sang Miss International.
Samtang, napaslawan naman nga makasulod sa top 20 ang pambato sang Pilipinas nga si Angelica Lopez.
Sa pihak sini, nagapasalamat gihapon si Lopez nga ginsaligan kag ginsuportahan siya sang mga Pinoy agud itiglawas ang Pilipinas.
Ai-Ai delas Alas, ginbulagan sang iya bana paagi lamang sa chat
Ginkumpirma sang 60-anyos nga komedyante nga si Ai-Ai Delas Alas ang una na nagguwa nga espekulasyon nga bulagay na sila sang iya 30-anyos nga bana nga si Gerald Sibayan.
Suno kay Ai-Ai, Oktubre 14 sang nagtakop ang ila 10 ka tuig nga relasyon paagi lamang sa chat.
Base sa iya istorya, kaagahon sang amo nga adlaw sang nag-chat si Gerald nga yara sa Amerika, nagsiling ini nga gusto na sini makaangkon sang anak kag indi na siya malipayon.
Ginsiling sang actress-comedienne nga nakibot man siya sa mensahe sang bana sini bangud wala man sila sang daku nga away bilang mag-asawa kag wala gid siya naka-ready sa ihambal sini.
“Nag-chat siya na yun nga, gusto na niyang magkaanak and hindi na siya happy.
Sana hintayin mo muna akong makauwi sa Amerika?
Na-confuse ako na…in fairness, wala naman talaga kaming pinag-aawayan,” pahayag sini.
“Actually, sa buong pagsasama namin, bilang sa daliri yung… discussion nga, e, hindi nga yung away, e.
So, parang nagulat nga ako na why ngayon?
Anong meron sa araw na ‘to and bakit madaling araw dito?
Siyempre, bukod sa shocking, hindi mo naman makikita yun kasi, siyempre, tulog ka pa, ‘May sasabihin ako sa ‘yo,’ blah-blah!”
Dugang ni Ai Ai, “Bukod sa initial reaction ko na parang okay na sa akin.
Tapos noong nag-sink in na sa akin, noong umaga na, siyempre, ang initial reaction ng asawa, natural yun na, siyempre, nagalit ka.
Ayun, sini-sink in ko muna ang lahat na parang, ‘Ano ba ‘tong nangyayari?
Nagasuspetsa man si Ai-ai nga basi kun may mga bag-o na nga prayoridad si Gerald sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika ilabi na bangud didto na ini naga-trabaho.
Si Ai-ai pa mismo ang nag-petisyon para nga makaangkon si Gerald sang green card ukon ang Permanent Resident Card ukon ang identity document nga nagapahanugot sa tawo nga maka-tinir kag maka-obra sang permanente sa US.
“I hope iyong hindi ko pa naibigay sa iyo na hinahanap mong kaligayahan, sana makuha mo.
Iyong hinihiling mong anak, sana magkaroon ka ng healthy child and I wish you well kasi sa sampung taong pinagsamahan natin, in fairness naman to you, naging good husband ka naman,” mensahe sini sa iya bana.
Wala ginklaro sang “Tanging Ina” star kun gina-proseso na subong ang ila legal nga separasyon bilang mag-asawa.
30 ka tuig ang age gap sang anay magkahagugma.
Matapos ang tatlo ka tuig nga relasyon, nagpakasal sila sang Disyembre 2017 sa Christ the King Parish sa Green Meadows, Quezon City kag nag-renew pa sang ila marriage vows lima ka tuig matapos ang amo nga seremonya.
‘Kaya ko pa ba?’ Kris Aquino, naka-isolate bangud sa paglala sang kondisyon
Ginpakigbahin ni Kris Aquino nga naka-isolate na siya subong bangud sa nagalala nga kondisyon sang iya ikaayong-lawas kag mas paghina sang iya nga immune system.
Base ini sa health update nga ginpaguwa sini kahapon, Nobyembre 10.
Suno sa anay Queen of All Media, nagnubo ang iya white blood cells kag may allergic reaction sa katapusan sini nga antibiotic nga matolerar pa sini subong.
Buot silingon sini suno sa iya, wala na gid siya sang ibato sa viral ukon bacterial infection.
“What did that mean- wala na kong panlaban sa kahit anong viral or bacterial infection.
Kaangot sa iya recent treatment, gin-share ni Kris nga may yara siya sang peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) line duha ka semana na ang nagligad samtang yara sa ospital.
Bisan gina-ako ni Kris nga daw nagakadulaan na siya sang paglaum sa iya nga auto-immune conditions, nagabato gihapon siya bangud indi sini gusto nga ma-disappoint ang mga nagapangamuyo para sa iya.
Ayokong maisip nyo na binalewala ko yung time & effort ninyo.
Kaya #bawalsumuko #tuloyanglaban,” dugang sini.
Antes sini, una na nga gin-anunsyo ni Kris nga magabalik siya sa isa ka show sa telebisyon antes magtakop ang 2024.
Gin-share man sini anay sang October 20 ang iya cancer scare apang ginklaro sang doctor nga hilway siya sa amo nga balatian.#
Ginkumpirma sang aktres nga si Max Collins nga na-finalize na ang ila divorce sang iya ex-husband nga si Pancho Magno.
Ang statement ni Max nga isa ka American citizen amo ang opisyal nga nagtapos sang panibag-o nga mga espekulasyon nga nagbalikanay sila nga duha.
Oktubre suno kay Max sang naaprubahan ang papeles nga nagapamatuod sang ila legal nga separasyon.
Ginklaro sang aktres nga civil sila sang iya ex-husband kag naga-co-parent sa ila bata nga si Skye.
Nagpakasal si Max kag Pancho sang Disyembre 2017.
2021 pa sang nahuring-huring nga nagbulagay sila apang 2023 lamang sang ila ini nga ginkumpirma.
Ginkumpirma na ni Victorias City, Negros Occidental Mayor Javier Miguel “Javi” Benitez nga bulagay na sila sang actress nga si Sue Ramirez.
Gin-isyu ni Benitez ang statement kadungan mismo sang pag-leak sang videos kag photos kun sa diin makit-an si Sue kag ang actor nga si Dominic Roque nga magkaupod kag nagahalukanay sa isa ka bar sa Siargao.
Madamo ang nakibot apang madamo man ang nagdepensa nga wala man sang problema diri bangud pareho man sila nga single.
Bilang kumpirmasyon, ginsiling sang 30-anyos nga actor-turned-politician nga nagtakop na ang lima ka tuig nga relasyon nila ni Sue apat ka bulan na ang nagligad.
Ginalauman man sini ang ikaayo kag ikalipay sang iya ex-girlfriend.
Wala pa nag-komento si Sue tuhoy diri apang “unbothered” ini nga nag-post sang iya pictures sa Siargao nga may caption “I love life.”
Si Sue naman, 28, ang kilala sa TV shows nga The Broken Marriage Vow, The Iron Heart, kag Hanggang Saan.
Yara man siya sa mga pelikula nga Ang Babaeng Allergic Sa WiFi, The Debutantes, Rewind, Finding Agnes, Cuddle Weather, kag iban pa.
Tatlo ka mga tawo nga naangot sa kamatayon ni Liam Payne, ginkasuhan
Ginpasakaan na sang kaso ang tatlo ka mga tawo nga naangot sa kamatayon sang 31-anyos nga British singer kag former One Direction star nga si Liam Payne.
Tanan ini nga indibidwal ang naangot sa pag-provide sang drugs sa singer.
Ginatudlo ang hotel employee nga amo ang nagdul-ong kay Payne sang cocaine sang duha gid ka beses samtang yara sa hotel kag ang alleged drug dealer nga ginapatihan nga naghatag man sang duha ka beses antes ang kamatayon sang musician.
Ang ikatatlo nga tawo amo ang gin-akusaran sang “abandonment of a person followed by death.”
Wala ginhingadlan kun sanday sin-o ang involved apang direkta sila nga pahibaluon sang otoridad kag indi pwede nga makaguwa sa Argentina.
Naghatag man sang kumpirmasyon ang Argentine prosecutors nga naka-consume si Liam sang cocaine, alcohol, kag prescription antidepressant antes ini nahulog sa balkonahe sang ikatatlo nga panalgan sang hotel sa Buenos Aires sang nagligad nga Oktubre 16.
Sa autopsy, natukiban nga nagsuprer ini sang “multiple traumas” kag “internal and external hemorrhaging” bangud sa pagkahulog halin sa mataas nga lugar.
Nadala naman pauli ang bangkay ni Liam sa Britanya matapos ang tatlo ka semana nga delay.
Miyembro si Liam sang English-Irish pop boy band nga One Direction ukon ID nga natukod sa London sang 2010 kaupod sanday Niall Horan, Harry Styles, Louis Tomlinson, kag Zayn Malik.
Isa ini sa highest-grossing live acts sa kalibutan apang natabo ang indefinite hiatus sang 2016.
Isa ka semana matapos ang kamatayon ni Liam, nagbalik sa UK charts ang lima tanan ka albums sang boy band.
Ang ila third album nga Midnight Memories ang amo ang nanguna sang nagsulod sa chart sa number 13 nga may sales kag streams nga nagsaka 517% week-on-week suno sa Official Charts Company.
Tatlo man sa ila singles ang nagsulod liwat sa Top 40 samtang ang final solo single ni Liam nga Teardrops ang nakasulod man sa chart sa labing-una nga tion nga yara sa number 85.#
FINALLY HOME: Bangkay ni Liam Payne, gindala na pauli sa Britanya
Gindala na pauli sa Britanya ang bangkay sang former One Direction star nga si Liam Payne tatlo ka semana matapos nahulog ini sa balkonahe sang isa ka hotel sa Argentina.
Nagbiya halin sa Buenos Aires kag pakadto sa London ang flight nga nagakarga sang bangkay ni Liam 1:58 pm local time suno sa sources.
Yara man ang iya amay nga si Geoff sa Ezeiza International Airport matapos ginproseso ang repatriation kag ginbisitahan ang lugar kun sa diin ginbawian sang kabuhi ang English singer.
Gin-report man sang Argentine media nga Myerkules sang aga sang ginsaylo ang bangkay ni Liam halin sa British Cemetery sa Buenos Aires kun sa diin ini gin-embalsamar.
Nangin makakilibot ang kamatayon sini sa edad nga 31-anyos kag gilayon nga nag-ulan ang mensahe sang kasubo sang fans, pamilya, kag former bandmates sini nga sanday Niall Horan, Harry Styles, Louis Tomlinson, kag Zayn Malik nga nagpaguwa man sang joint statement.
Antes ang insidente, nabukaran sa record sang otoridad nga duha ka beses pa nga nagtawag ang hotel staff sa emergency services agud i-report nga may guest sila nga natam-an sa droga kag alcohol kag naga-eskandalo sa hotel room.
Pagkasunod sadto, nakit-an na ang lawas ni Liam sa idalom sang hotel kag ginkumpirma man nga may “substances” sa hulot sini nga ginaangot sa na-consume sini nga alcohol kag drugs antes napatay.
Ang English-Irish pop boy band nga One Direction ukon ID nga natukod sa London sang 2010 ang isa sa highest-grossing live acts sa kalibutan apang natabo ang indefinite hiatus sang 2016.
Janine Tugonon, nagbun-ag na sang baby girl
Nagbun-ag na si former Miss Universe Philippines Janine Tugonon sang iya una nga baby.
“Bonjour Madeleine Sophia,” caption sini sa iya post sa Instagram kun sa diin yara ang pictures sang baby girl kag iya partner.
Pahayag sini, naga-recover na siya subong kag nagaplano nga umpisahan ang iya mom duties.
– haha char lang, pero someday yan talaga sana,” dugang pa sang beauty queen.
Hunyo lamang sang malipayon nga gin-anunsyo ni Janine ang iya pagbusong.
Siya ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas sa Miss Universe pageant sang 2012 kag nangin first runner-up kay Olivia Culpo sang USA.
Kasunod sang pageant, ginlagas sini ang modeling career sa US kag nalakip sa high profile modeling gigs kaangay sang ad sa Victoria’s Secret, nangin NU muse, kag naglakat sa runway sang New York Fashion Week sang 2017.
Boyz II Men, magabalik sa Pilipinas para sa concert sa May 2025
Pat-od nga may “One Sweet Day” gid ang Pinoy fans sang Grammy award-winning trio nga Boyz II Men sa 2025!
Ini bangud magakadto ini nga grupo sa Manila para sa isa lamang ka gab-i nga concert sa The Araneta Coliseum sa Mayo 18.
Suno sa Wilbros Live, ang R&B group nga ginabug-usan nanday Nathan Morris, Wanya Morris, kag Shawn Stockman ang natalana nga maga-harana sa Manila sang ila nga greatest hits kag iban pa nga sorpresa nga mga musika.
Igabaligya ang tickets via TicketNet outlets kag online umpisa sa Nobyembre 16 nga may masunod nga rates: VIP (P9,500), Patron A (P8,500), Patron B (P7,500), Lower Box A (P5,000), Lower Box B (P3,500), Upper Box (P2,500), kag Gen Ad (P1,200).
Ini nga trio nga pop culture icon sang 1990s isa ka American vocal harmony group nga halin gid sa Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
Nagsugod sila sang 1985 kag kilala sa ila hits kaangay sang “End of the Road”, “I’ll Make Love to You,” “A Song For Mama”, ” If You Leave Me Now” kag madamo nga iban pa.
Tuig 2018 sang nagpatigayon man sila sang konsiyerto sa Pilipinas kaupod sanday Yeng Constantino, Kyla, Angeline Quinto kag KZ Tandingan.
Sheynnis Palacios, gin-athag nga welcome ini gihapon nga magpauli sa Nicaragua
Pila ka adlaw antes niya ipasa ang korona sa bag-o nga Miss Universe, ginhatagan sang kaathagan ni reigning Miss Universe Sheynnis Palacios sang Nicaragua, nga welcome ini gihapon nga magbalik sa iya pungsod kag wala ini gin-exile.
Sa isa ka interview, ginsiling ni Palacios nga ang iya Masako nga schedule bilang Miss Universe amo ang nagapugong sa iya nga magpauli kun sa diin nagbisita ini sa 31 ka mga pungsod sang 2023, nga gin- organize sang Miss Universe Organization (MUO).
Suno kay Sheynnis, nahidlaw na gid ini nga magpauli kag wala man siya ginadumilian nga magbalik sa Nicaragua.
Baliskad ini sa post sang bulan sang Mayo ni Anne Jakrajutatip, co-owner sang MUO, nga yara sa indefinite exile si Palacios.
Patigayunon ang coronation night sang Miss Universe sa Nov.
17 Manila time), kun sa diin isa ang pambato sang Pilipinas nga si Chelsea Manalo ang nagahandom nga mangin successor sang Nicaraguan beauty queen sa 73rd Miss Universe Competition sa Mexico.
LIST: Celebrities nga naga-endorso kay Kamala Harris sa pagka-presidente
Subong nga adlaw, Nobyembre 5, ang presidential election sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Masandukot ang away sa tunga sang mga kandidato sang Democrats kag Republicans gani pati ang chart-topping musicians kag award-winning actors ang naga-upod man sa pag-endorso sa ila nahamut-an nga mga kandidato.
Magpadayon sa pagbantay sa US election updates sa Bombo Radyo Philippines nga dal-on sang masobra 150 ka Bombo International correspondents direkta halin sa nagkalain-lain nga states sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Angelica Lopez, nagakinahanglan sang suporta sa pagsugod sang online voting sa Miss International 2024
Nagakinahanglan sang boto sang mga Pinoy ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas agud diretso nga makasulod sa semifinals sang Miss International 2024.
Nagasugod na subong ang online voting para sa pageant, kag mahimo gid makabulig ang Filipino pageant fans agud nga may tyansa si Angelica Lopez nga mas makapalapit sa korona.
Mahimo maghatag sang boto kay Angelica paagi sa pagkadto sa Miss International voting website.
Pangitaon ang “Philippines” kag i-click ang star button.
Kada boto ang katumbas sang 1 Euro ukon yara sa P64.
Ang winners diri ang awtomatiko nga makasulod sa semifinal round sang kumpetisyon sa Nobyembre 12 sa Tokyo Dome City Hall sa Japan.
Pananglitan magdaog ini sa Tokyo, Japan, ini na ang pang-pito na Miss International crown para sa Pilipinas.
Actress-politician nga si Maita Sanchez, nagtaliwan na
Napatay na sa edad nga 55-anyos ang anay alkalde sang Pagsanjan, Laguna nga si Girlie Javier-Ejercito nga kilala man sa stage name nga si Maita Sanchez sang yara pa sa movie industry.
Ejercito ang nagkumpirma sang masubo nga balita nga ginbawian sang kabuhi ang anay aktres samtang yara sa St.
Patigayunon ang haya sini tubtub sa Nobyembre 9 sa Don Porong Ejercito Ancestral Mansion sa Pagsanjan.
Nagserbe si Javier-Ejercito bilang mayor sang amo nga banwa halin sang 2010 tubtub 2019 kag nangin vice mayor halin sang 2019 tubtub sang 2022.
Na-eleher man siya bilang national President sang League of Municipalities of the Philippines (LMP) halin sang 2010 tubtub sang 2016.
Antes ang iya karera sa pulitika, nangin kilala siya sa showbiz industry halin sang 1988 ilabi na sa action films kaupod ang anay King of Philippine Movies nga si Fernando Poe Jr.
Nalakip siya sa mga pelikula nga Sa Dulo ng Baril (1988), Lagalag: The Eddie Fernandez Story (1994), Minsan Pa: Kahit Pagtingin Part 2 (1995), Hagedorn (1996), Pagbabalik ng Probinsyano (1998), Ang Dalubhasa (2000), kag Batas ng Lansangan (2002).
Base sa iya IMDb database entry, ulihi nakit-an si Maita sa Shake, Rattle & Roll The Extreme nga ginpaguwa sa mga sinehan sang 2023.
‘Ex Ex Lovers’: Reunion project nanday Jolina Magdangal kag Marvin Agustin, balantayan
Isa sa una nga nagpakilig sa 90s kids amo ang pares nanday Marvin Agustin kag Jolina Magdangal.
Matapos ang 25 ka tuig, kumpirmado nga maga-updanay liwat ang duha sa pelikula nga “Ex Ex Lovers” sa idalom sang direksyon ni JP Habac.
Maga-upod man sa sini nga movie ang actor-singer nga si Juan Karlos kag si Loisa Andalio.
Suno kay Marvin, daw pang-real life gid ang ‘Ex Ex Lovers’ bangud mag-ex gid man sila nga duha — bagay nga ginkadlawan lamang ni Jolina.
Ginlaragway naman ini sang actress nga isa ka “dream project” bangud nagsugod nga maistoryahan ang reunion movie sa tunga nila halin pa sang 2018 sang ginpanumdom ini nanday Direk Dan Villegas kag Tonet Jadaone.
Wala pa subong sang release date kag dugang nga mga detalye nga ginpaguwa.
Kilala ang Agustin-Magdangal tandem nga “MarJo” kag nangin bida sa “Flames: The Movie” (1997), “Labs Kita Okey ka Lang?” (1998), “Kung Ayaw Mo Huwag Mo” (1998), “Hey Babe!” (1999) kag “Gimik: The Reunion” (1999).
Si Direk JP nga kaupod nanday Jolina kag Marvin ang kilala sa iya mga obra nga “I’m Drunk, I Love You” (2017) kag “Love You Long Time” (2023), kag ang web series nga ‘Gaya sa Pelikula.’
Tiglawas sang Panama sa Miss Universe 2024, nag-withdraw sa kumpetisyon
Nabuhinan sang isa ang 130 ka mga kandidata sa Miss Universe 2024 matapos nag-withdraw sa kumpetisyon ang tiglawas sang Panama nga si Italy Mora.
Mismo ang organisasyon ang nagpaguwa sang kumpirmasyon sa ila official site nga ginpaidalom ang kandidata sa evaluation sang disciplinary commission.
Ginpahayag nga mahinalungon gid nga gintul-id ang kaso ni Mora base sa ila nga mga impormasyon nga natipon kag gin-review.
Diri kag nadesisyunan nga ang pag-atras sini sa kumpetisyon amo ang pinakamaayo nga himuon kasunod sang mga sirkumstansya nga nakapalibot sa ginakaulamiran sini.
Wala sang rason nga ginpaguwa ang organisasyon kag ginpahangop nga importante ang pagpabilin sang confidentiality sa mga detalye kag dapat nga tahuron sang pareho nga partido ang resulta sang nangin desisyon.
Sa pihak nga bahin, sa official social media page sang Miss Universe Panama Organization kag Señorita Panama Official, ginkumpirma man ang withdrawal ni Mora sa beauty pageant.
Lakip sa 129 ka mga kandidata nga nabilin kag maga-compete sa Miss Universe crown amo si Chelsea Manalo nga tiglawas sang Pilipinas.
Naga-umpisa na ang mga aktibidad sa 73rd Miss Universe competition sa Mexico kag balantayan ang finals sa November 16.
Off the market na ang Filipino basketball star nga si Kiefer Ravena matapos gin-anunsyo ang iya engagement sa beauty queen nga si Diana Mackey.
Ginpaagi ini sang 31-anyos nga former Gilas Pilipinas captain sa isa ka Instagram post nga may caption “An October to remember” kun sa diin ginlakip ang siyam ka assorted photos sang sceneries, self-portraits, iya iloy nga si Mozzy, kag ang picture nila ni Mackey nga may suksok nga engagement ring.
Gilayon nga nagbubo ang panginbulahan halin sa kaangay ni Kiefer nga mga atleta lakip sanday former Ateneo stars Dave Ildefonso kag Vanie Gandler kag kaangay sini nga Japan B.
Sunod sini nga ginkumpirma ang development sa iya masunod nga Instagram stories nga nagapakita sang snapshots ni Mackey nga nagapakita sang iya tudlo nga may diamond ring samtang naga-video call.
Si Diana, 26, isa anay ka flight attendant, kag kilala sa iya stint sa Binibining Pilipinas kag nakadangat sa top 12 sang gintiglawas sini ang Nueva Ecija sa 2022 edition.
Naka-intra man siya sa Pinoy Big Brother kun sa diin nagpanglima siya sa PBB 8 – Part 4: Adult Edition.
Naka-sentro naman ang karera ni Ravena sa Yokohama B-Corsairs bilang isa ka Asian import sa Japan B.League.
Nahibaluan nga apat ka adlaw antes ginsapubliko ang ila engagement, gin-“hard launch” ni Mackey ang ila relasyon sa labing-una nga tion sa amo man nga social media platform kag gintawag ang Ilonggo basketball star nga “biggest plot twist” sang iya 2024.
Chelsea Manalo, nag-abot na sa Mexico para sa 73rd Miss Universe pageant
Mainit nga gin-abi-abi ang mga kandidata sa Miss Universe 2024 sa ila pag-abot sa host country nga Mexico.
Isa diri si reigning Miss Universe Philippines Chelsea Manalo nga antes nagkadto sa South America, naghapit pa anay sa Los Angeles, California, United States para sa dugang nga training.
Sang nag-abot ini sa Mexico, suksok sini ang golden modern Filipiniana nga himo ni Cary Santiago.
Sa iya Instagram story, ginpakigbahin man ni Chelsea nga roommates sila ni Tatiana Calmell sang Peru.
May mini reunion man si Chelsea sa iban nga half-Filipinas nga maga-compete sa Miss Universe — si Victoria Velasquez Vincent sang New Zealand, Christine Dela Cruz Chalk sang Great Britain, kag Shereen Ahmed sang Bahrain.
Pareho nga nag-compete sanday Victoria kag Christina kaupod kay Chelsea sa Miss Universe Philippines 2024 kun sa diin sulod si Christina sa Top 20 samtang nagtapos naman si VVV sa Top 10 kag may tatlo ka sponsored awards.
Si Chelsea ang una nga Filipino-Black American nga ginkoronahan nga Miss Universe Philippines.
Sa Nobyembre 17 (oras sa Pilipinas) nga amo ang adlaw sang koronasyon, maga-serbe man bilang commentator si Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray.
Ini na ang ikatlo nga tuig nga magaserbe ang Pinay-Australian beauty queen bilang commentator — una sa New Orleans, Lousiana sang 2022, ikaduha sa El Salvador sang 2023, kag subong nga tuig sa Mexico City.
Tiglawas sang Pilipinas, nagpadulong na sa Japan para sa Miss International 2024 pageant
Nagpadulong na sa Japan si Binibining Pilipinas International 2023 Angelica Lopez para itiglawas ang Pilipinas sa 62nd Miss International Beauty Pageant!
Handom ni Lopez nga mangin ikapito nga Pinay nga makakuha sang titulo.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, 3rd runner-up ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Nicole Borromeo.
Ang Miss International 2024 ang natalana sa Nobyembre 12, 2024 sa Tokyo Dome City Hall sa Japan kun sa diin koronahan sang reigning Miss International 2023 Andrea Rubio sang Venezuela ang iya successor gikan sa masobra 70 tanan nga mga kandidata.
MUPH, nagahingyo sang suporta para sa Voice for Change video ni Chelsea Manalo
Kinahanglan sang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Chelsea Manalo ang bayanihan spirit sang Filipino pageant fans!
Sa isa sa recent posts sang Miss Universe Philippines (MUPh) organization, ginbutang ang poster nga nagahingyo sa Filipino fans kag pageant followers nga magboto sa ‘Voice for Change’ video ni Chelsea.
Advocacy ini para sa mga pamilya sang migrant workers kag makabig gid nga “timely and essential.”
Ginhingyo man sang organisasyon sa pageant fans nga depensahan ang Voice for Change win sang Pilipinas.
Ini bangud sang nagligad nga tuig, ang beauty queen nga si Michelle Dee ang nagdaog sa amo nga parte sang kumpetisyon matapos ang iya pag-advocate sa autism awareness kag sa autism works programs sang Autism Society of the Philippines (ASP).
Yara na subong si Chelsea sa Los Angeles, California para sa dugang nga training para matiglawas sang mas maayo ang Pilipinas sa nagahilapit nga Miss Universe 2024 pageant sa November 16.
Ginalauman sini nga makuha ang panglima na nga Miss Universe crown sang Pilipinas nga ulihi nadag-an ni Catriona Gray sang 2018.
Patigayunon ang global pageant sa Arena CDMX sa Mexico City, Mexico kun sa diin natalana nga ipasa ni reigning titleholder Sheynnis Palacios ang korona sa iya mangin successor.
Maila sa gihapon ang Miss Grand International crown sa Pilipinas.
Sa finals sang 2024 edition kagab-i, nagtapos ang Filipina beauty queen nga si Christine Julianne “CJ” Opiaza bilang first runner-up sa kumpetisyon.
Nagpangibabaw naman sa 68 ka iban pa nga mga kandidata ang tiglawas sang India nga si Rachel Gupta nga amo ang nagsubli sa korona ni Luciana Fuster sang Peru.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpangatlo naman sa kumpetisyon ang 18-anyos nga si Thae Su Nyein sang Myanmar; si Safiétou Kabengele sang France ang third runner-up; samtang si Talita Hartmann sang Brazil ang fourth runner-up.
Suksok ni CJ kagab-i ang slinky silver cutout column gown nga himo sang Filipino designer nga si Mak Tumang.
Magluwas sa iya signature pasarela ukon pageant walk nga nagpabilib gid sa mga tumalan-aw, dalayawon man si CJ sa final Q&A kun sa diin “giyera” ang iya sabat sang ginpamangkot sa pinaka-kritikal nga isyu sa kalibutan subong nga kinahanglan nga solusyunan.
Nahibaluan nga tubtub subong, wala pa sang Miss Grand International title ang Pilipinas.
Ang pinakataas nga Filipino contenders amo sanday Nicole Cordoves kag Samantha Bernardo nga pareho nga first runner-up sang 2016 kag 2020, samtang si Roberta Tamondong ang isa naman sa fifth runners-up sang 2022.
Finals sang Miss Grand International 2024, subong na nga adlaw
Patigayunon na subong nga adlaw ang koronasyon sang Miss Grand International 2024.
Isa sa mga ginabantayan amo si CJ Opiaza nga nagatuyo nga makuha ang labing-una nga MGI crown para sa Pilipinas.
Sa final hot picks sang leading beauty pageant website nga Missosology, nagapangaduha si CJ kay Rachel Gupta sang India samtang pangatlo naman si Susana Medina sang Mexico.
Ang nagakumpleto sa Top 5 sa amo nga lista amo sanday Arlette Rujel sang Peru kag si Thae Su Nyein sang Myanmar.
Ang iban pa nga mga pungsod nga yara sa lista amo ang Brazil, Venezuela, Indonesia, Mexico, France, Colombia, Curacao, Japan, angS Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, United Kingdom, Dominican Republic, Malaysia, Thailand, Angola, Vietnam, Paraguay, Cameroon, New Zealand, kag Gibraltar.
Septyembre lamang sang ginkoronahan si CJ diri sa Pilipinas kag nag-abot sa Thailand sa temprano nga bahin subong nga Oktubre.
Sa national costume competition, ginbida sini ang national leaf nga anahaw nga may green and gold ensemble kag may matching headdress nga himo ni Patrick Isorena.
Ellen Adarna, nagbun-ag na sa ila baby ni Derek Ramsay
Malipayon nga gin-anunsyo sang actor nga si Derek Ramsay nga nagbun-ag ang iya misis nga si Ellen Adarna sang ila una nga baby!
Mismo si Derek ang nag-share sang laragway sang aktres sa hospital bed samtang nga may ginakungkong apang hungod nga gintabunan ang nawong.
Wala gilayon ginpahibalo ni Derek kun ano ang gender sang bata apang maabtik ang well-wishes halin sa iban nga celebrities kaangay kanday Jessy Mendiola, Matteo Guidicelli, Cristalle Belo, Carmen Soo, Karen Davila, kag iban pa.
Isa ini ka sorpresa sa fans bangud wala man sang kumpirmasyon halin sa mag-asawa nga nagabusong na si Ellen.
Pareho sila nga may anak sa ila nauna nga mga karelasyon: si Elias nga bata ni Ellen kay John Lloyd Cruz, kag si Austin Ramsay nga bata naman ni Derek sa iya former wife nga si Christine Jolly.
Una naman nga ginpahayag ni Ellen nga gusto na nila ni Derek nga makaangkon sang kaugalingon nga anak rason nga nag-untat siya sa pagpanigarilyo sang Hunyo 2023 agud nga mapreparar ang iya lawas sa pagdala sang anak.
CJ Opiaza, agaw-eksena sa Miss Grand International preliminaries
Agaw-eksena ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si CJ Opiaza sa preliminary competition sang Miss Grand International pageant sa Thailand.
Sa swimsuit round, ginpainit sini ang stage paagi sa iya fit and sexy body suksok ang iya golden swimsuit nga gin-updan pa sang iya perfect pasarela.
Ang koronasyon sang Miss Grand International 2024 nga amo ang 12th edition sang pageant ang natalana sa Oktubre 25 sa MGI Hall, Bravo BKK Mall, Bangkok, Thailand.
69 ka mga contestants ang magapaindis-indis para sa korona.
Kun mangin mapalaron, si Opiaza ang mangin pinakauna nga Pinay nga magadaug sang amo nga titulo.
Kris Aquino, ginsugid ang kakulba nga nabatyagan sa pagdumdom nga naka-angkon sang cancer
Ginpakigbahin sang aktres kag talk show host nga si Kris Aquino ang detalye sang iya autoimmune diseases amo man ang kakulba nga basi makaangkon siya sang cancer kaangay sa iya iloy nga si anay president Corazon Aquino.
Nagsugod ang kulba ni Kris matapos ang PET (positron emission tomography) scan nga amo ang ginagamit agud maka-detect sang cancer.
Nagdugang pa ang cancer scare sini bangud colon cancer man ang ginkamatay mangin sang iya Lola.
Ginbalikan sini kun ano kabudlay sugiran ang iya 17-anyos nga bata nga si Bimby kag naglahog pa ang iya bata nga indi pa ready ang iya “Tito Noy” ukon si the late President Noynoy Aquino nga makita si Kris.
Ginsugid man sang aktres nga nahaw-asan siya sa bangud makaligad ang pila ka adlaw, ginklaro sang doctor nga cancer-free siya kag klaro man ang iya intestines.
Sunod ini nga nagpasalamat sa mga nagapangamuyo para sa iya ikaayong lawas.
Apang pahayag sini, indi siya 100% healthy bangud anum pa ang iya autoimmune conditions kag tatlo diri ang makabig nga nagabutang gid sang iya kabuhi sa delikado.
Apisar sini, determinado ang aktres nga makalampuwas, kag sa pagkamatuod, may show pa ini nga maga-guwa antes magtakop ang 2024.
Sabi n’yo, you miss watching me,” dugang niya.
Naghingyo man ini sa fans nga hatagan siya anay sang privacy sa iya romantic relationship, apang ginsiling sini nga kun kaslon gid man siya sa iya karelasyon, imbitaron man niya ang tanan.
Nahibaluan nga nagpauli si Kris sang nagligad nga bulan diri sa Pilipinas para sa chemo sessions matapos ang tinuig nga pagtinir sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika agud madapatan sang treatment.#
Hotel sa Argentina kun sa diin napatay si Liam Payne, ginbisitahan sang iya amay
Nag-abot sa Buenos Aires, Argentina ang amay ni Liam Payne agud bisitahon ang hotel kun sa diin nahulog kag napatay ang 31-anyos nga former One Direction star.
Ginkadtuan sini ang balkonahe sang hotel room kun sa diin natabo ang insidente kag nagkadto man sa vigil sang fans sa guwa sang hotel.
Nagpasalamat man ini sa fans sang British musician sa pagpangamuyo, pagsindi sang kandila, kag pagbutang sang mga pictures kag bulak para kay Liam.
Antes sina, ginkadtuan man ni Geoff Payne ang morgue sa Buenos Aires agud nga pormal nga ma-identify ang bangkay sang iya anak.
Nagkadto man ini sa prosecutor’s office nga naga-imbestigar sa kaso agud nga matigayon na nga ma-repatriate ang bangkay Liam pabalik sa United Kingdom.
Siya man ang naghapit sa Casa Sur hotel agud nga madala-pauli ang mga personal nga gamit nga nabilin sang iya anak.
Huwebes sang aga (oras sa Pilipinas) sang na-report ang gulpyada sini nga kamatayon.
Base sa Argentina National Prosecutor’s Office, may 25 ka injuries si Payne bangud sa pagkahulog kag ang mayor gid nga rason sang iya kamatayon amo ang “polytraumatism, internal kag external hemorrhage.”
Sa statement sang opisina, ginsiling nga nagguwa sa autopsy nga posible nahulog ang 31-anyos nga musician samtang wala na sang pangalibutan ukon kun may ara man, posible nga naga-agaw-agaw na ang iya nga animo.
May subtances man nga nakit-an sa kuwarto ni Payne nga ginpahayag sang prosecutor’s office nga posible makapamatuod sang alcohol kag drug consumption.
Ginsaad man sa report nga natul-id sa ila imbestigasyon nga isahanon lamang ini sang natabo ang insidente.
Natukod ang grupo nga One Direction sa The X Factor sang 2010 kun sa diin yara man sanday Harry Styles, Louis Tomlinson, Zayn Malik kag Niall Horan.#
FULL STATEMENT ni Simon Cowell sa gulpyada nga kamatayon ni Liam Payne
Nagpaguwa na sang iya statement ang English television personality nga si Simon Cowell matapos ang gulpyada nga kamatayon sang anay One Direction star nga si Liam Payne.
Ini ang ginahulat man sang fans ilabi na bangud isa si Cowell sa pinakadaku nga tawo nga nangin rason sa pagkatukod sang banda tubtub nga nakilala ini indi lamang sa Britanya kundi sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Sang tuig 2008, 14-anyos pa lamang si Liam sang nag-audition ini sa ‘The X Factor’.
Ginsilingan ini ni Simon nga tuman pa ini ka bata, apang nagdugang man nga dapat ini magbalik pagkaligad ang duha ka tuig.
Wala ini ginkalimtan ni Liam, kag sang 2010, didto na kag nagmadinalag-on sa iya audition, nalakip sa boyband, tubtub nga nangin bantog na nga music star kaupod kanday Harry Styles, Niall Horan, Louis Tomlinson kag Zayn Malik.
Nag-disband na ang One Direction apang nagapabilin nga buhi ang ila handurawan sa fans.
Sang nagligad lamang nga Huwebes sang aga (oras sa Pilipinas), natublag ang bilog nga music industry sang gin-report nga patay na si Payne.
Nahulog ang 31-anyos nga musician gikan sa ikatatlo nga panalgan sang Casa Sur hotel sa Argentinian capital nga Buenos Aires.
Base sa pulis, may substances nga nakita sa hulot sini nga nakapamatuod sang posibilidad nga may alcohol kag drug consumption antes ang insidente.
Miss Universe candidates sang iban nga pungsod, ginpili nga mag-train sa Pilipinas
Kilala ang Pilipinas nga powerhouse sa pageant, gani indi na bag-o nga diri nagahanas ang pambato sang iban nga mga pungsod para sa ginakalangkagan nga Miss Universe pageant.
Subong nga tuig, lakip sa naglupad padulong sa Pilipinas para sa training amo ang mga kandidata sang Great Britain, Egypt, kag Bahrain.
Ang 31-anyos kag Pinay-Scottish beauty nga si Christina Chalk nga naka-intra man anay sa Miss Universe Philippines subong nga tuig ang maga-representar sang Great Britain.
Magluwas sa training sa Britanya, ginkasakuan man sini ang pasarela kaupod ang iya Pinoy coach nga si Zico Manzano.
Si Shereen Ahmed naman sang Bahrain kag si Logina Salah sang Egypt ang pareho nga nangin masako sa lima ka oras nga training sang damlag lang agud nga matutukan ang ila poses, Q&A, kag pasarela.
Isa ka half-Filipina kag half-Bahraini si Shereen kag inspirasyon sini ang Filipina beauty queen nga si Pia Wurtzbach nga nakakuha sang Miss Universe title sang 2015.
Si Salah naman ang isa ka single mom kag may yara sang rare skin condition nga ginatawag nga vitiligo.
Isa ini ka sakit nga nagaresulta sa pagkadula sang skin color kag nagaputi ang agi sini sa iya nga nawong.
Kun may pagkapareho man ang tatlo ka kandidata, pareho sila nga lampas na sa edad nga 28-anyos nga amo anay ang age limit antes ginkakas sang organisasyon ang age restriction.
130 tanan ang kandidata nga maga-compete para sa korona subong nga tuig lakip ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Chelsea Manalo.
Ginalauman nga maga-abot sila sa Mexico sa Oktubre 29, magasunod ang preliminaries sa Nobyembre 14, kag balantayan naman ang final night sa Nobyembre 17.#
FULL TRANSCRIPT sang 911 call halin sa hotel antes nahulog kag napatay si Liam Payne
Nabukaran sang otoridad nga ang hotel nga gintiniran sang former One Direction star nga si Liam Payne sa Argentina ang duha ka beses pa nga nakatawag sa emergency telephone number nga 911 antes pa man nahulog sa balkonahe ang music star.
Base sa transcript sang tawag, nagpakilala nga head sang reception ang caller halin sa Casa Sur Palermo hotel sa Buenos Aires.
Ginsiling sini nga may guest sila nga natam-an na sa droga kag pag-inom, conscious pa, apang nagawaras na sa bilog nga kuwarto.
Ginapadali pa sang caller ang operator nga magpadala gilayon sang pulis bangud sang daku nga risgo nga mahimo matabo.
Base pa sa impormasyon sini nga ginhatag sa 911, duha tubtub tatlo ka adlaw na nga nagatinir ang ila guest sa hotel, apang wala niya ginkumpirma kun si Payne ang iya ginatumod.
Makaligad ang pila ka minutos matapos ang tawag, ginkumpirma sang Sistema de Atencion Medica de Emergencia ukon ang emergency health service nga nahulog na si Payne halin sa ikatatlo nga panalgan sang hotel kag ginbawian gid sang kabuhi.
Sang nag-abot naman ang paramedics, wala na sang posibilidad nga matabangan ini bangud sa daku nga fracture sa iya nga ulo.
Nagabubo naman subong ang mensahe sang simpatiya kag kasubod sa gulpyada sini nga kamatayon.
Former One Direction star Liam Payne, patay matapos nadagdag sa hotel sa Argentina
𝗔𝗥𝗚𝗘𝗡𝗧𝗜𝗡𝗔 – Nagakasubo subong ang music industry bangud sa pagtaliwan sang Former One Direction star nga si Liam Payne.
Suno sa state police, si Liam ang nadagdag sa third floor sang ginatiniran sini nga CasaSur Palermo Hotel sa Argentina.
Sa subong, ginahibalo pa kun aksidente ini nga nadagdag ukon ginhungod nga maglumpat sa balcony sang iya hotel.
Antes ang insidente, nakita pa sang mga witnesses si Liam nga nagapangamo sa hotel lobby sa diin ginlampos pa sini ang iya laptop.
Nahibaluan nga nagpadulong si Liam sa Argentina para sa reunion concert sang One Direction.
Matandaan nga 16 anyos lang si Liam sang nangin kabahin sang One Direction – ang biggest boyband sa kalibutan matapos ginlunsyar sang 2010 sa “The X Factor.”
Nagbulagay ang mga myembro sang banda sang 2015.
Magaupdanay ang Kings of P-pop nga SB19 kag ang Popstar royalty nga si Sarah Geronimo sa isa ka proyekto!
Sa isa ka joint social media post, ginpakita nanday Sarah kag SB19 ang video kun sa diin magkaupod sila sa recording studio kag may caption nga “#SarahGxSB19 soon.”
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nag-collaborate man sila sa “Ace Your World” nga gin-perform sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Pasay City para sa anniversary celebration sang isa ka tech company.
Sang nagligad nga Agusto, may single nga ginpaguwa ang SB19 nga “Kalakal” nga naga-feature sa rapper nga si Gloc-9.
Ini nga grupo nga ginabug-usan nanday Pablo, Josh, Stell, Ken, kag Justin ang nakabaton man sang award halin sa Billboard Korea’s Billboard K Power 100 kaupod ang OPM girl group nga BINI.
Si Sarah naman amo ang una nga Pinay nga nakabaton sang Billboard Global Force Award subong nga tuig sa Los Angeles, California, USA.#
Anay PBA courtside reporter, gintuad nga ginpahalin siya sa iya trabaho sa liga bangud ‘tambok’ ini
Gintuad sang former Philippine Basketball Association (PBA) courtside reporter nga si Ira Pablo nga ginpahalin siya sa amo nga trabaho bangud sa iya lawas.
Sa iya post, ginpahayag ni Pablo nga subong pa lamang siya nangisog nga isugid sa publiko ang rason kun ngaa hinali lang ini nga nadula bilang courtside reporter sang 2022.
Suno kay Pablo, anom ka tuig niya nga ginpreparahan agud malab-ot ang handom nga mangin courtside reporter sa PBA apang wala ini nagdumdom nga mapahalin ini sa iya dream job bangud sa diskriminasyon sang iban nga tawo sa iya.
Dugang niya, ang mas ginkalain pa sang iya buot amo nga ang head sang network nga isa man ka babaye mismo ang nangin rason sa pagpahalin sa iya bangud indi sini luyag nga may plus sized nga mga babaye bilang reporters sa PBA.
Sa pihak sang natabo, ginpahayag ni Ira nga nagapasalamat siya bangud labi niya nga nahatagan sang balor ang iya kaugalingon.
Olivia Rodrigo, nahulog sa stage samtang naga-perform sa Australia
Nahulog sa nakabukas nga trap door sang stage sa tunga sang iya nga concert si Olivia Rodrigo sa Melbourne, Australia.
Tuman naman nga nagkabalaka ang fans ni Olivia para sa iya bangud sa insidente.
Gilayon naman nga nagsaka balik sa stage si Olivia kag ginsiling nga okay lang ini.
Ang iya show sa Australia ang kabahin sang iya Guts Tour nga ginpatigayon man sa Pilipinas sang nagligad nga semana.
J-Hope sang BTS, malapit na lang makakumpleto sa mandatory military service
Gin-anunsyo sang South Korean record label nga BigHit Music nga malapit na lang makaguwa sa mandatory military service si J-Hope sang KPOP supergroup nga BTS!
Na-enlist sa military ang 30-anyos nga ‘on the street’ artist sang Abril 18, 2023 kag natalana ang release subong nga bulan.
Ginpahanumdom man sa fans nga wala sang ‘special events’ nga himuon kadungan sini agud nga wala sang pagginutok nga matabo.
Si J-Hope, ukon si Jung Ho-seok sa matuod nga pangalan, amo ang ikaduha sa pito ka miyembro sang BTS nga makakumpleto sang mandatory military service sa South Korea.
Ang una amo si Jin nga napaguwa na sang Hunyo subong nga tuig.
Ginalauman ang pag-reunite sang BTS sa seven-piece act kun matapos naman sang lima ka iban pa nila nga miyembro (RM, Suga, Jimin, Jungkook, kag V) ang ila military service sa 2025.
Miss Grand Ph CJ Opiaza, wala gihapon nakasulod sa Top 8 sang Miss Popular challenge
Wala gihapon nakasulod ang pambato sang Pilipinas nga si Christine Juliana “CJ” Opiaza sa listahan sang Top 8 contenders para sa Miss Popular vote ng Miss Grand International 2024.
Base sa latest rankings nga gin-release kaina sang kaagahon, Oktubre 15, nagapanguna gihapon si Miss Grand Myanmar nga may 53%.
Ginasundan ini sang mga kandidata sang Ukraine, Thailand, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Germany kag France.
Ang magapanguna sa sini nga botohay — nga magalawig tubtub sa Oktubre 25 — amo ang direkta nga makakuha sang slot sa Oktubre 25.
Indi ini kinaandan sa pageant scene kun sa diin masami gid nga nagapaulan sang boto ang mga Pinoy sa kandidata sang Pilipinas.
Nagaguluwa naman ang mga komento nga nawad-an na sang gana kag salig ang Filipino pageant fans sa Thailand-based beauty pageant nga ginapangunahan sang media personality kag businessman nga si Nawat Itsaragrisil.
Sa sulod sang 12 ka tuig, wala gid sang Pinay nga nagdaog sa Miss Grand International title kag ginatawag na ini nga “cooking show.”
Pila ka beses na nga nanginwala diri si Nawat kag nagbisita pa sa Pilipinas para sa mas malapit sa mga Pinoy.
Nahibaluan nga si CJ nga pambato subong sang Pilipinas ang isa na ka beauty pageant veteran halin sa Zambales.
Magluwas sa Miss Grand Philippines crown, nakuha man sini ang lima ka special awards lakip ang Best in Swimsuit.
Magabalik ang Irish band nga “The Corrs” sa Pilipinas para sa special valentine concert sa Pebrero 2025.
Matabo ini sa Araneta Coliseum sa Quezon City sa Pebrero 15 kag 16.
Mangin available na ang tickets sa Manila 2025 show umpisa sa Oktubre 20.
Ginabug-usan ini nga family band sang mag-utod nga sanday Andrea, Sharon, Caroline kag Jim kag kilala sa ila hits kaangay sang “Runaway,” “Breathless,” “What Can I Do,” “So Young,” kag “All The Love In The World.”
LANY, mainit nga gin-abi-abi sang Filipino fans sa Philippine Arena
Mainit nga gin-abi-abi sang Filipino fans ang American pop-rock band nga LANY nga nagbalik sa Pilipinas para sa apat ka adlaw nga concert.
Una sa schedule sang banda ang Philippine Arena sa Bulacan.
Pasado alas syete sa gab-i, Oktubre 12, sang nagsugod sa pag-perform ang lead vocalist nga si Paul Jason Klein kag drummer nga si Jake Goss paagi sa hit song nga “you!”
Kasunod sang opening number, gin-perform man ang “ex i never had”, “It Even Rains in LA”, “I Pray”, “somewhere”, “care less”, kag “Congrats.” Todo-upod man sa pagkanta ang audience sa “I Don’t Wanna Love You Anymore”, “dancing in the kitchen”, “pink skies”, kag “Alonica.”
Ginkanta man sang banda ang “Out of My League” kaupod sa OPM singer nga si Maki.
Ang nangin highlights naman sang show amo ang ila performance sa “Super Far” kag “Mean It”.
Ang concert sang LANY sa Pilipinas ang kabahin sang Asian leg sang “A Beautiful Blur” world tour.
Kasunod sa Philippine Arena, magakadto man sila sa Cebu para sa tatlo ka adlaw nga concert.
Nag-partner ini sa kampanya sang Department of Tourism nga “Love The Philippines” agud nga mahatagan sang spotlight ang Cebu indi lamang bilang top tourist destination bangud sa ila rich historical heritage, vibrant culture, kag beautiful sceneries kundi bilang isa man ka preferred venue sa international concerts, music festivals, kag nightlife.
Ulihi nga naka-perform ang LANY sa Pilipinas sang 2022 sa five-day sold-out concert sa Mall of Asia Arena.
Voice Actress sa likod ni ‘Doraemon’, nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 90
Nagtaliwan na sa edad nga 90-anyos ang voice actress nga amo ang naghatag sang kabuhi sa karakter sang robotic cat nga si Doraemon sa Japanese anime nga may amo man nga pangalan.
Ini amo si Nobuyo Oyama nga napatay sang nagligad pa nga Septyembre 29 bangud sa katigulangon.
Nagpangayo man sang pasensya ang “Actors 7” agency sa atrasado nga statement sa iya kamatayon kag nagpasalamat man sa tanan nga nagpalangga kay Oyama.
May ginpatigayon man nga pribado nga haya nga ginkadtuan sang mga himata kag abyan sang nagtaliwan.
Ang “Doraemon” television show ang na-ere halin sang 1979 tubtub sang 2005 kag isa sa tatlo ka shows sa larger Doraemon franchise nga nangin popular sa regional markets pati sa Hong Kong, Vietnam, kag Pilipinas.
Lakip sa franchise nga ini ang animated films, video games, music albums kag manga series.
Si Oyama ang nabun-ag sa Tokyo, Japan kag antes ini nangin boses ni Doraemon, nangin kabahin man siya sang puppet show nga “Boo Foo Woo” nga popular man sa Japan halin sang 1960 tubtub sang 1967.
Sang Hulyo, matandaan nga nagtaliwan man ang 88-anyos voice actor nga si Noriko Ohara nga amo naman ang boses sa likod ni Nobita sa Doraemon.
LANY, nag-abot na sa Pilipinas para sa 4-day concert
Balik-Pilipinas ang American pop rock band nga LANY para sa apat ka adlaw nga concert sa Bulacan kag Cebu.
Sa airport pa lamang, ginsugata na sang Pinoy fans ang lead vocalist nga si Paul Jason Klein kag ang drummer nga si Jake Goss.
Kabahin ang Pilipinas sa Asian leg sang “A Beautiful Blur” world tour sang amo nga banda.
Subong nga adlaw ang ila event sa Philippine Arena sa Bulacan samtang Oktubre 13-15 naman sa Waterfront Cebu City Hotel & Casino.
Katapusan sila nga nag-perform diri sa pungsod sang 2022 sa lima ka adlaw nga sold-out concert sa Mall of Asia Arena kun sa diin gin-updan pa sila nanday Zack Tabudlo kag Juan Karlos sa separado nga shows.
Kilala ang LANY sa ila hit songs nga “ILYSB”, “Malibu Nights”, “pink skies,” “Thru These Tears,” kag madamo nga iban pa.
MUPH, may pa-send off party kay Chelsea Manalo sa pagsabak sini sa global pageant
Extra nga confidence ang nahatag kay Miss Universe Philippines Chelsea Manalo matapos ang send-off ceremony para sa iya pagtiglawas sa Pilipinas sa global pageant.
Pahayag sang Bulakenya beauty queen, mas daku ang pagsalig niya sa iya kaugalingon bangud sa mga mensahe sang kaabyanan, pamilya, team, kag organisasyon nga nagtipon gid antes ang iya pagpadulong sa Mexico para sa 73rd edition sang pageant.
Suno kay Chelsea, 9/10 pa lang ang iya pagpanghanda subong bangud ang magakumpleto sini amo gid ang suporta sang mga Pilipino.
Balantayan ang koronasyon sa Nobyembre 16 kun sa diin tinguhaan sini nga makuha ang ika-lima nga MU crown para sa Pilipinas.
Indi lang si Chelsea ang Pinay sa amo nga pageant.
Makasumpong sini ang Filipina-British nga si Christina Dela Cruz Chalk sang Great Britain, Filipina-Kiwi nga si Victoria Velasquez Vincent sang New Zealand, kag Filipina-Bahraini nga si Shereen Ahmed nga magatiglawas sang Bahrain.
Nagpangayo sang pasensya ang singer nga si Julie Anne San Jose matapos gin-ulan sang pagpakamalaot ang iya performance nga “Dancing Queen” samtang yara sa isa ka event sa simbahan.
Ginsiling ni Julie Anne nga isa ini ka leksyon sa iya kag pat-od gid nga indi na niya pagsuliton.
Gindugang sini nga indi siya perpekto, kag nagapangamuyo man nga maka-“move forward” na ang tanan kasunod sini nga isyu.
Thank you,” dugang sang singer-actress nga amo man subong ang coach sa “The Voice Kids Philippines”.
Oktubre 6 sang nag-perform si Julie Anne sa atubang sang altar sang simbahan para sa benefit concert nga ginpatigayon sa Nuestra Señora Del Pilar Parish sa Mamburao, Occidental Mindoro.
Ang iya talent management agency nga Sparkle ang nauna naman sa pagpaguwa sang apology statement kaangot sa insidente.
Ginklaro man sang Sparkle nga wala ginabastos ni Julie Anne ang Catholic Church bangud isa man siya ka devout Catholic.
Mangin ang Apostolic Vicariate of San Jose sa Mindoro kag ang Parish Priest nga si Rev.
Dimaano ang nagpaguwa man sang mensahe sang pag-sorry paagi sa Facebook.
“Inaamin ko pong may mga mali kaming desisyon ukol dito.
Inaako ko po ang lahat ng mga pagkakamaling ito,” suno kay Fr.
“Tinatanggap ko pong ito ay nakasakit sa damdamin ng mga mananampalataya.
Bela Padilla, JC Santos, maga-updanay liwat sa ‘100 Awit Para Kay Stella’
Isa ka man bala sa naghibi sa istorya nanday Fidel kag Stella?
Igabalik nanday Bella Padilla kag JC Santos ina nga balatyagon paagi sa “100 Awit Para Kay Stella” nga amo ang ginakalangkagan nga sequel sang 2017 romance-drama film nga “100 Tula Para Kay Stella.”
Mismo si Bella ang nag-repost sa Instagram sang art card nga naga-anunsyo sang sequel.
May yara man sang gin-share ang actress-host nga clips kag mga laragway halin sa ila una nga pelikula kag ang istorya sang nag-shoot sila sa pila ka mga eksena.
Gin-anunsyo man sang Viva Films ang sequel paagi sa caption sa Instagram nga: “Kumusta na kaya ‘yung mga ginawa mong ‘mundo’ noon?”
Una nga ginpakita ang “100 Tula Para Kay Stella” sa 1st Pista ng Pelikulang Pilipino kag nakatipon sang P80 million sa box office nga amo ang leading film sa 12 entries sa amo nga festival sang 2017.
Istorya ini sang honor student nga si Fidel nga may yara sang speech impediment.
Nakilala sini si Stella nga isa ka aspiring rocker.
Nag-updanay sila bilang freshmen sa Pampanga kun sa diin sila nagakuha sang psychology degree.
Apisar magkatuhay ang ila nga mga personalidad, nangin suod sila nga mag-abyan.
Nahulog ang buot ni Fidel kay Stella kag nagsulat ini sang mga tula agud nga magpabutyag sang iya paghigugma.
Magluwas sa karakter nanday Bella kag JC, magabalik man si director Jason Paul Laxamana sa pag-sulat kag pag-direct sa sequel.
Ginahulat pa ang release date kag full cast line-up para sa second installment sang amo nga pelikula.#
Julie Ann San Jose, gin-bash bangud sa iya sing and dance performance sa simbahan sa Mindoro
Ginaistoryahan subong sang publiko ang kontrobersyal nga performance sang singer nga si Julie Anne San Jose samtang nagakanta ini sang “Dancing Queen” sa atubang sang altar sang isa ka simbahan sa Occidental Mindoro.
Ang nasambit nga performance ang kabahin sang isa ka concert for a cause nga gintawag nga Heavenly Harmony in Concert’ (Harana para kay Maria) sang Nuestra Señora Del Pilar Shrine sa Mamburao sa amo nga probinsya.
Kalakip sa mga ginkanta ni San Jose ang “The Climb” ni Miley Cyrus, “Edge of Glory” ni Lady Gaga kag mga OPM songs.
Madamo ang nalipay bangud nga benefit concert ini apang nagtaas naman ang kilay sang iban bangud nga wala nagakaangay ang mga kanta ni Julie Ann sa sulod sang simbahan nga kaangay nga nangin isa ka concert venue.
Nahibaluan nga ang kita sa concert ang makadto para sa pagpanami sang nasambit nga simbahan.
Wala pa sang opisyal nga pahayag ang simbahan kag ang kampo sang singer tuhoy diri.
Panibag-o nga record ang nahimo sang 34-anyos nga American superstar nga si Taylor Swift nga amo subong ang ginakilala nga pinakamanggaranon nga female musician sa bilog nga kalibutan.
May estimated net worth ini nga $1.6 billion ukon masobra sa P90-billion.
Sa latest net worth update sang Forbes, nalapawan na ni Taylor ang previous record ni Rihanna nga may $1.4 billion ukon malapit P80 billion.
Apang suno sa report sang Forbes, si Rihanna gihapon ang may titulo nga “Richest Female Musician of All Time” bangud may record man ini anay nga estimated net worth nga $1.7 billion (ukon masobra P100 billion).
Sa mga lalaki naman, nagapanguna ang rap mogul kag entrepreneur nga si Jay-Z nga may yara subong sang estimated net worth nga $2.5 billion (over P142 billion).
Matandaan nga sang Oktubre 2023 sang nalab-ot ni Taylor ang billionaire status base lamang sa iya mga kanta kag performance.
Lakip sa ginkuhaan sang iya manggad amo ang royalties kag tours kag music catalog.
Sang damlag lang, naka-set man ini sang record bilang most-awarded artist sa MTV Video Music Awards history nga may 30 wins sa iya karera nga lapaw pa sa 26 nga nakuha ni Beyonce.
Bag-o lang nagtakop ang UK kag European legs sang iya record-breaking world tour nga Eras Tour kag natalana sini nga suguran ang final stretch sang tour sa Miami sa Oktubre 18 tubtub makaabot sa Disyembre 8 sa Canada.
Transman nga si Jesi Corcuera, nagabusong sang iya una nga baby
Malipayon nga gin-anunsyo sang anay celebrity kag transman nga si Jesi Corcuera nga nagabusong na ini sang iya una nga baby.
Ginpakigbahin sini ang balita paagi sa pagpakita sang iya baby bump kag may rainbow flag sa iya abaga nga amo ang simbolo sang LGBTQIA+ community.
Pero that time, maraming struggles, lalo na financially and hindi rin naman biro ang gastos sa unang plano kong mag-IVF,” pahayag ni Jesi nga former housemate man sa PBB.
Nagbalik ang iya partner sa iya kabuhi, kag bilang father figure sa kabataan sang iya partner, gusto man sini nga makaangkon sang iya kaugalingon gid nga baby.
Nagpangayo ini sang paghangop sa iya journey subong kag ginpahayag man sini nga suportahan gid sini gihapon ang kabataan sang iya partner kag palanggaon gid ang iya kaugalingon nga bata nga gintawag niya nga si Ninja.
Nangin housemate naman siya sang “Pinoy Big Brother” sang 2017 nga may moniker nga “Trans man of the House ng Cavite.”
Ahtisa Manalo, nagtapos nga Top 10 finalist sa Miss Cosmo 2024
Napaslawan ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Ahtisa Manalo nga makuha ang labing-una nga korona sa Miss Cosmo 2024 pageant sa koronasyon nga ginpatigayon sa Saigon Riverside Park sa Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
Tubtub sa Top 10 ang gindangatan ni Ahtisa.
Ang nadala nga Top 5 queens nga nag-abanse sa question and answer portion amo ang Indonesia, Peru, Thailand, USA, kag Vietnam.
Antes ang anunsyo sang Top 5, nakarampa pa si Ahtisa suksok ang isa ka sexy violet gown.
Naka-abanse siya sa Top 10 matapos nagpanguna sa Cosmo People’s Choice voting portion.
Matandaan nga pila ka adlaw antes ang preliminaries, nakaangkon sang ankle injury si Ahtisa rason nga wala nakaupod sa iban nga aktibidad apang nagpartisipar ini sa closed-door interviews kag nagpabilib man sa jury session.
Apisar wala nadala pauli ang titulo, nadag-an man sini ang “First Station” sang People’s Choice voting kag sulod man sa Top 3 sang “National Pride” stage.
Antes ang Miss Cosmo, beterana na si Ahtisa sa pageant scene kag una na nagtiglawas sa Pilipinas sa Miss International 2018 kun sa diin siya ang first runner-up.
Ahtisa Manalo, handa na sa finals sang Miss Cosmo subong nga adlaw
Ahtisa Manalo nga dal-on ang korona sa Pilipinas sa pagsabak sini sa finals sang Miss Cosmo 2024 subong nga adlaw, Oktubre 5.
Pila ka mga aktibidad sa pageant ang wala natambungan ni Ahtisa sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw bangud sa injury sa iya nga tiil.
Ginbawi niya ini paagi sa matahum nga performance sa jury session kun sa diin gindayaw ini sa iya yellow bikini kag blue cape sa iya signature pasarela.
Sa evening gown portion, nagsuksok naman si Ahtisa sang blue gown nga may gold details.
Nakuha man sini ang lead sa ongoing final stage sang “Cosmo People’s Choice” poll ukon ang “Big Bang.”
Ang “Cosmo People’s Choice” winner amo ang makakuha sang guaranteed spot sa Top 10 sang final competition.
Olivia Rodrigo, nag-abot na sa Pilipinas para sa GUTS concert
Nag-abot na sa Pilipinas ang Filipina-American singer-songwriter nga si Olivia Rodrigo para sa iya nagahilapit nga “GUTS” concert.
Naghugpa ang eroplano nga ginasakyan sini sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) subong nga hapon kasunod sang Singapore leg sang iya world tour.
Ini ang labing-una nga tion nga nakabisita ang amo nga pop star diri sa Pilipinas, kag gilayon sini nga gin-share sa isa ka social media post ang iya una nga gintilawan: ang popular Filipino dessert nga halo-halo.
Matabo ang concert sa Oktubre 5, Sabado, sa Philippine Arena.
Nagsugod ang “Guts” world tour sang Pebrero 23 sa Acrisure Arena Desert sa California kag magatakop sa Marso 30, 2025 sa Lollapalooza sa Brazil.
Maragtason ini nga event sa Philippine concert scene nga may halos 800,000 ka mga tawo nga naghulat nga makakuha sang tickets sa iya concert.
Base sa Live Nation, 745,000 fans ang yara sa waiting list sang nagsugod sila sa pagbaligya sang tickets.
Kilala si Olivia sa iya mega-hit songs kaangay sang “driver’s license”, “good 4 u”, “vampire”, “traitor”, kag “deja vu”.
Ang matipon sa sini nga konsyerto ang magakadto sa Fund 4 Good nga isa ka global initiative “committed to building an equitable just future for women and girls.”#
4 reklamo sang ginikanan ni Sarah Lahbati vs Cristy Fermin, ginaalegar nga ginbasura
Malipayon nga ginbalita sang veteran columnist nga si Cristy Fermin nga nabasura ang apat ka mga panumbungon nga gin-file sang kampo ni Sarah Lahbati batok sa iya kag sa iya co-hosts nga sanday Wendell Alvarez kag Romel Chika.
“Sa mga nagtatanong kung bakit po kami masaya ni Romel Chika at gusto rin naming isama sa aming kaligayahan si Wendell Alvarez.
Alam n’yo po ang kuwento ng aming buhay bilang mamahayag at nagtatawid sa inyo ng mga balita, ” pahayag sini sa iya show nga “Cristy Ferminute.”
“Napaka-prone po namin sa kung anu-anong problema.
Alam n’yo po, apat na kaso po ang isinampa laban sa amin ng nanay at tatay nitong si Sarah Lahbati, ang mga kaso ay Cyberlibel, Harassment, Defamation, at Unjust Vexation,” dugang sini.
Matandaan nga ang nag-file sang reklamo sang nagligad nga Marso amo ang iloy kag amay ni Sarah.
Suno kay Fermin, base sa desisyon nga ila nabaton, wala nagdulot ang reklamo bangud sa kakulangan sang ebidensya.
Nahibaluan nga magluwas sini, may pending pa gid nga reklamo batok kay Fermin kag sa iya co-hosts nga ginpasaka naman nanday Bea Alonzo, Dominic Roque kag Sharon Cuneta.
Pila ka celebreties, nag-file man sang COC
Agaw-atensyon ang pila ka mga celebrities matapos nag-file sang ila kandidatura sa una nga adlaw sang filing sang certificates of candidacy (COC) kahapon.
Ini ang ginalakipan sang actor nga si Enzo Pineda, partner ni Vice Ganda nga si Ion Perez, kag social media personality nga si Rosmar Tan-Pamulaklakin nga lunsay nagapapili sa pagka- councilor.
Si Ion ang nag-file sa Concepcion, Tarlac kag kabahin sang Nationalist People’s Coalition.
Si Enzo naman nga anak ni Enrico Pineda nga sadto anay representative sang 1-Pacman partylist — ang nag-file sa 5th district sang Quezon City.
Si Rosmar naman ang nag-file sa pagka- councilor sa first district of Manila bilang independent candidate.
Siya ang nagpadalagan sadto sa pagka- councilor sa fourth district sang 2022 apang napierde.
Wala pa gihapon sang direkta nga kumpirmasyon sanday Richard Gutierrez kag Barbie Imperial kaangot sa ila relationship status, apang liwat nadabukan ang istorya matapos nag-updanay ang mga ini sa lunch date sa Filipino restaurant sa Rome sa Italya.
Mismo ang restaurant ang nag-post sa duha sa ila nga duha kag may pictures man kaupod ang staff.
Madamo naman ang naham-ot kag nag-komento nga gina-“lowkey” lang kuntani sang duha ang ila pag-updanay apang ginsapubliko sang ila ginkan-an — mga senaryo nga masami ginasugid sa ‘secret dating’ stage.
Naglagaw man sila sa Italy kag nagbaton sang photo requests sa Filipino tourists nga yara sa lugar.
Nahibaluan nga yara sa Italy ang actor para sa mag-film sang iya upcoming action drama nga “Incognito” kun sa diin makaupod sini sanday Daniel Padilla, Maris Racal, Anthony Jennings, Kaila Estrada, kag Ian Veneracion.
Wala si Barbie sa cast, apang nagaguwa nga gin-updan sini si Richard sa byahe.
Una nga nagguwa ang dating rumors sa tunga nila sang Enero 2024 sang naispatan man sa gastropub sa Alabang, kag ginsundan pa sang pila ka okasyon kaangay sang pagkadto sa South Korea, workout date sa gym, birthday party sang actress kag iban pa.
Marso 2020 sang nagpakasal sanday Richard kag anay asawa sini nga si Sarah Lahbati apang apat ka tuig ang ginlawig sang relasyon kag gin-anunsyo ni Sarah ang ila pagbulagay kag pagproseso na sa annulment.
May duha sila ka anak nga sanday Zion kag Kai.#
Indi lang si Chelsea Manalo ang balantayan sang Filipino pageant fans sa Miss Universe 2024 sa Mexico sa Nobyembre kundi pati ang duha pa ka beauty queens nga nakasumpong man sini diri sa Pilipinas.
Ini amo sanday Filipina-Kiwi pageant veteran Victoria Velasquez Vincent nga magatiglawas sa New Zealand kag ang Filipina-British nga si Christina Dela Cruz Chalk nga magatiglawas naman sa Great Britain.
Si VVV nga representative anay sang Bacoor City sa MUPH 2024 ang nagpangibabaw sa 15 ka iban pa nga mga kandidata nga nag-compete kagab-i (Manila time).
Una na sini gin-athag nga nagpasakop ini sa amo nga beauty pageant sa New Zealand agud padunggan ang heritage sang iya amay.
Sang 2021, madumduman nga una na ini nag-intra sa Pilipinas kag ginhingadlan nga MUPH Charity.
Sang amo man nga tuig, gintanyagan na siya sang New Zealand sang titulo apang nagbalibad ini.
Subong nga tuig naman, nagbalik siya liwat sa MUPH stage kag nagtapos sa Top 10 samtang nagkadto naman kay Manalo sang Bulacan ang korona.
Sa pihak nga bahin, si Chalk naman nga representative sang Filipino community sa UK sang nagpasakop siya sa MUPH, amo ang nagpangibabaw sa 42 ka iban pa nga finalists sang nag-compete siya sa Britanya sang Hulyo.
31 anyos na subong ang iya edad kag “dream come true” para sa iya nga makatapak sa global stage.
Napilian ang Filipina actress kag beauty queen nga si Kylie Versoza nga mag-host sa preliminary kag grand finale events sang Miss Cosmo pageant sa Vietnam.
Matabo ang preliminary night sa Oktubre 4 samtang balantayan naman ang grand finale sa Oktubre 5 nga pareho nga patigayunon sa Phu Tho Stadium sa Ho Chi Minh City.
Una naman nga gin-anunsyo sang Miss Cosmo pageant nga magapungko man sanday former Miss Universe Organization President Paula Shugart kag 2021 Miss Universe winner Harnaaz Sandhu sa jury panel.
Sa sini nga pageant, ang naga-tiglawas sa Pilipinas amo si Ma.
Nagsugod ang Miss Cosmo 2024 sang September 15 sa isa ka sashing ceremony kag magalawig tubtub sa October 5.
OPM legend nga si Coritha, nagtaliwan na
Nagtaliwan na ang Filipina folk-country legend nga si Coritha pasado alas syete kagab-i.
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya partner nga si Chito Santos.
Matandaan nga nagpanawagan anay sang bulig ang pamilya sang OPM icon matapos nga na-stroke ini kag bedridden na gid lamang sa ila balay sa Tagaytay.
Halin sang amo nga tion, indi na ini makahambal.
Si Coritha ang kilala nga si Socorro Avelino sa matuod nga kabuhi kag bantog sa mga kanta nga “Oras Na,” “Si Lolo Jose,” “Sierra Madre,” kag “Gising Na Oh Kuya Ko.”
Nangin kilala siya nga singer-songwriter sang 1960s kag 1970s.
Ang iya musika nga “Oras Na” isa man ka popular protest song sang 1970s.
‘Birthday blues’: Robi, emosyonal sa pag-share sang iya wish sa ika-35 nga kaadlawan
Nangin emosyonal ang TV host nga si Robi Domingo samtang naga-reflect ini kag nagapakigbahin sang iya wish kadungan sang ika-35 niya nga kaadlawan.
Ginpaagi ni Robi ini nga “birthday blues” sa two-part video sa Instagram, Septyembre 27.
Ginsugid sini nga gusto gid niya makaangkon sang baby sa iya asawa nga si Maiqui Pineda, apang bangud sa pila ka mga pagpanghangkat dala sang iya kondisyon, madamo ini sang nangin reyalisasyon.
“I’m having some birthday blues, some people say it’s time na nararamdaman mo nang ‘okay tumatanda ka na’ but also it’s a time na puwede kang mag-reflect sa buhay mo and that’s what am I gonna do right now,” pahayag sini sa pamuno sang video.
Sang una pa lang suno sa iya, nakabutang na sa iya plano kun san-o siya maangkon sang anak.
“Alam mo ‘yung may plano ka dati, especially I’m a man with a plan all the time, talagang naka-ayos iyan.
But last year, was really a blow and questioned me ‘Ano ba ang nangyayari, ano bang mangyayari’ especially with Maiqui and then nakaka-kasa na ako na by this year, actually by this month, sana mayroon na akong anak ‘di ba?
And it happened, it’s hard,” pahayag sini samtang emosyonal.
Apisar wala pa nag-ayo si Maiqui, positibo si Robi nga matuman ang ila handum kag makabalik na sa normal nga kabuhi bilang mag-asawa.
But I am hoping na mangyari ‘yun,” dugang pa sini.
Matandaan nga ginsapubliko sang mag-asawa nga may rare autoimmune disease si Maiqui.
Ginkasal sila nga duha sang nagligad nga Enero sa Bulacan.#
‘And So It Begins’, official entry sang Pilipinas sa 2025 Oscars
Gin-anunsyo sang Film Academy of the Philippines (FAP) nga napilian ang documentary nga “And So It Begins” bilang official entry sang Pilipinas sa 97th Academy Awards sa idalom sang Best International Feature category.
Base sa Oscars, ang international film isa ka feature-length motion picture (masobra 40 minutos) nga gin-produce sa guwa sang United States of America kag mga teritoryo sini nga may masobra 50% nga non-English dialogue track.
Pareho nga ginapahanugutan ang animated kag documentary feature films.
Base sa Screen Daily, 15 finalists ang ibutang sa shortlist kag iga-anunsyo sa Disyembre 17; kag halin sa 15, may lima ka final nominees nga iga-anunsyo naman sa Enero 17, 2025.
Ang “And So It Begins” ni Director Ramona Diaz nagapakita sang “pink” movement nga nabuhi sang ginlunsar ang presidential bid ni former vice president Leni Robredo sang 2022 national elections.
113 minutos ini nga documentary kag naga-feature man sa Nobel Peace Prize laureate nga si Maria Ressa sa iya pagpakigbato sa press freedom sa tion nga nagapanglakaak gid ang disinformation.
Sang Agusto, ginpaguwa man ini sa Cinemalaya Independent Film Festival kag sa limited number sang sinehan sa pungsod.
Antes na-screen sa Pilipinas, ang documentary nga ini ang nag-debut sa Sundance Film Festival sang Enero.
Matandaan nga ang official entry sang Pilipinas sa 96th Academy Awards amo ang Filipino-Ilocano animated film nga Iti Mapukpukaw ni Carl Joseph Papa.
Kim Chiu, emosyonal sa iya speech sa Seoul International Drama Awards
Wala napunggan sang 34-anyos nga Filipina actress nga si Kim Chiu nga maghibi samtang gina-deliver ang iya acceptance speech sa 2024 Seoul International Drama Awards.
Ang pagbaton sini sang pagkilala bilang “Outstanding Asian Star” ang kasunod sa iya papel bilang si “Juliana Lualhati” sa drama series nga “Linlang”.
Ginpahayag sini nga indi lamang network kundi bilog nga Pilipinas ang iya gintiglawas sa amo nga event.
Naghibi ini sang namensyonar na ang isa sa iya mga boss nga si Deo Endrinal nga nagtaliwan na nga amo suno sa iya ang nangin mentor niya kag nag-giya sa iya para malab-ot ang iya ginatindugan subong.
Pila sa Korean celebrities nga nakilala ni Kim sa event amo ang ‘Mask Girl’ lead cast kag Seoul Drama Awards K-Drama Best Actor kag Best Actress Ahn Jae-hong kag Yeom Hye-Ran.
Naka-bond man sini ang co-Outstanding Asian Star awardees nga sanday Kim Hye-yoon sang South Korea, Desmond Tan sang Singapore, Win Metawin sang Thailand kag Siti Saleha sang Malaysia.#
Martin Nievera, nagapaligo gali sa shower room sang nadiskubre sang wrestling coach ang iya talent sa pagkanta
Gintuad sang singer nga si Martin Nievera nga nadiskubre sang isa ka wrestling coach ang iya talent sa pagkanta samtang nagapaligo ini sa shower room.
Suno kay Martin, naligo siya sa shower sang locker room matapos ang isa ka basketball game kag samtang naga-shower, naga-enjoy ini sa reverb echo.
Pahayag niya, ang ambahanon nga “Feelings” ni Morris Albert ang iya ginakanta sang nabatian siya sang wrestling coach nga naglabay lang sa lugar.
Sang 1981, nag-intra si Martin sa isa ka California-wide talent search nga may 4,000 contestants kag siya ang nagdaug.
Didto na narealisar ni Martin nga luyag niya nga mangin isa ka singer kag sa Pilipinas niya gusto mag-umpisa sang career.
Sa subong, 42 ka tuig na sa industriya si Nievera nga amo ang ginhatagan sang bansag nga Concert King sang Pilipinas.
Arnel Pineda, gin-bash bangud sa iya indi manami nga performance sa Brazil
Ginsabat sang Filipino singer nga si Arnel Pineda nga frontman sang American rock band nga The Journey ang mga kritisismo batok sa iya may kaangtanan sa performance sini sa Rock in Rio sa Brazil sang weekend.
Sa iya social media accounts, ginpasalamatan niya ang mga fans nga naglantaw sang show.
Apang gin-ako man sini nga dismayado siya sa iya pagperform sang kanta nga “Don’t Stop Believin'” bangud nga madamo nga beses ini naglibag kag halos indi niya malab-ot ang mataas nga tono.
Suno sa, ginaagwanta niya subong ang mental kag emosyonal nga epekto sa iya sang madamo nga kritisismo.
May nagsiling pa nga mag-resign na lang ini sa banda.
Sa pihak sini, madamo naman ang todo-suporta gihapon sa iya kag nagpahayag nga indi nalang pagsapakon ang iya bashers.
Si Pineda ang nangin kabahin sang Journey sa sulod na sang 17 ka tuig matapos ginbuslan ang original vocalist nga si Steve Perry.
Ini nga banda ang sa likod sang hits nga “Open Arms,” Faithfully,” kag “Don’t Stop Believin.'”
Ex-SexBomb member Sunshine Garcia, 40, nagabusong sang iya ikatatlo na nga anak
Malipayon nga gin-anunsyo sang actress kag former SexBomb dancer nga si Sunshine Garcia nga nagabusong siya liwat sa edad nga 40-anyos!
Ginpakigbahin sini ang maayo nga balita kadungan sang pag-post sang pictures sa selebrasyon sang iya kaadlawan sang nagligad nga Domingo.
Parang kailan lang 40 na agad and preggy ulit?
Ginpasalamatan man sang dancer-actress ang iya bana nga si Bulacan Vice Governor Alex Castro sa iya pagpreparar sang birthday party para sa iya.
“Wala talaga ako plan mag-celebrate ng birthday ko gusto ko lang mag-dinner with family pero ikaw talaga nag plan ng lahat.
Siya kag si Vice Gov ang makaangkon na sang ila una nga baby girl!
“Idinasal, isinayaw sa Obando at higit sa lahat INORDER ng mga anak namin,” dugang sini.
2019 sang nagpakasal ang duha kag may duha ka mga kabataan nga lalaki nga sanday Axel kag Alexander.
Miyembro anay si Sunshine sang Sexbomb Girls nga kilala sa afternoon drama series nga “Daisy Siete.” Lakip sa ila hit songs ang “The Spageti Song,” “Halukay Ube,” “Bakit Papa?” kag iban pa.
Catriona Gray, nagdaog sa 2020 libel case vs.
Nagdaog si Miss Universe 2018 Catriona Gray sa libel case nga iya ginpasaka batok sa isa ka entertainment editor kag isa ka writer sang 2020.
Ginkumpirma ini sang iya legal counsel nga si Atty.
Joji Alondo nga nagpakigbahin man sang desisyon sang Regional Trial Court (RTC).
Ang respondents sa kaso amo ang editor sang Bulgar nga si Janice Navida kag reporter nga si Melba Llanera.
Pareho sila nga nagguwa nga “guilty beyond reasonable doubt” kag ginpamatbatan sang minimum nga anum ka bulan kag isa ka adlaw nga pagka-preso.
Gintawag ini sang kampo ni Gray nga “moral victory” kag ginpasalamatan man ang beauty queen sa pagsalig sa iya mga abogado apisar nga indi man mahapos ang proseso.
Matandaan nga gin-file ni Cat ang reklamo sang Hulyo 2020 sang gin-release sang Bulgar ang iya peke ukon gin-photoshop lamang nga topless photo kag madasig ini nga naglapta online.
Sa isa ka statement, nagdepensa si Navida nga ginproteksyunan man nila si Cat paagi sa pag-blur sang laragway kag wala man gin-release ang original picture.Natalana nga i-appeal sang duha ang desisyon sang RTC.
Gin-donate sang beauty queen nga si Michelle Marquez Dee sa Autism Society Philippines ang tanan nga prize money nga iya nadag-an sa Voice for Change sa Miss Universe 2023.
Ginkumpirma sang Miss Universe Philippines (MUPH) Organization nga mismo si Michelle ang nagkadto sa Antipolo City kaupod ang president sang organisasyon nga si Jonas Gaffud agud ihatag ang P684,000.
Ang Voice for Change nangin kabahin sang Miss Universe competition kun sa diin hatagan ang mga kandidata sang kahigayunan nga suportahan ang ila advocacy.
Ginpili naman ni MMD ang Autism Society Philippines, bangud magluwas nga kilala siya nga “lifelong champion” sang mga tawo sa autism spectrum, duha sa iya mga utod nga sanday Mazen kag Adam ang pareho nga na-diagnose nga may amo nga kondisyon.
Matandaan nga Septyembre 16 sang ginsapubliko ni MMD nga wala pa niya nabaton ang premyo halin sa Voice For Change kag ginsiling sini nga amo ini ang “most personal” award sa iya journey sa pageant bangud sa iya adbokasiya.
Nag-depensa gilayon ang MUPh kag ginsiling nga may delay bangud sa communication process sa local franchise kag indi sa Miss Universe Organization.
Pagka-aga, gin-anunsyo na sang beauty queen nga na-release na ang iya prize money.
Matandaan nga magluwas nga sulod sa Top 10 sa coronation night sang Miss Universe 2023 sa El Salvador, nakuha ni Michelle ang madamo nga special awards nga amo ang isa sa tatlo ka gold winners sang Voice for Change competition, Spirit of Carnival Award nga hatag sang pageant sponsor nga Carnival Cruises, Miss Universe’ fan vote, kag Best National Costume title nga tribute naman niya sa iya papel bilang Air Force Reservist.
Ricardo Cepeda, nag-piyansa, nakapauli na matapos ang 11 ka bulan nga pagkapreso
Nahaw-asan kag nagpahayag sang kalipay ang pamilya kag kaabyanan sang beterano nga aktor nga si Ricardo Cepeda matapos ini temporaryo nga nakaguwa sa presuhan kasunod sang pagpyansa sa kaso nga estafa.
Nag-post ang aktres nga si Nadia Montenegro sang pictures kag video clips nga naga-dokumento sa paghilway sa aktor.
Ginpakigbahin man sini ang release form nga pirmado sang executive judge kag nakasaad nga pwede na ini makaguwa sa Cagayan Provincial Jail sa Tuguegarao City matapos ang halos isa ka tuig nga pagka-preso.
Apisar sang kaso ni Cepeda, ginpuno niya ini sang pagdayaw kag ginlaragway nga “kind, decent, respectful and [respected] human being.”
Puno man sang emosyon ang post sang anak sang aktor nga si Sachi Go kun sa diin gintawag pa ini nga “post of honor and relief.”
Matandaan nga ginpaidalom si Cepeda sa kustodiya sang pulis sang Oktubre 2023 matapos ginkasuhan sang syndicated estafa.
Kasunod sini, ang iya anak nga si Mark de Sequera ang nag-depensa nga inosente ang iya amay kag “wrongfully accused” gid lamang ini.
Kilala si Cepesa sa iya mga papel sa mga pelikula nga Doll House, Secrets of Pura, kag Honor: The Legacy of Jose Abad Santos, kag iban pa.
Yara man siya sa shows nga Return to Paradise, Marimar, kag Mano Po Legacy: Her Big Boss.#
Jeanne Isabelle Bilasano sang Pilipinas, nakuha ang korona sa Face of Beauty International
Nagpangibabaw ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Jeanne Isabelle Bilasano sa Face of Beauty International sa Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
Si Bilasano, 25, speech language pathologist, residente sang Malilipot, Albay, amo ang una nga Filipina nga nakakuha sang korona sa amo nga pageant para sa Pilipinas.
Nakuha man sini ang iban pa nga pagkilala kaangay sang People’s Choice, Best in National Costume, Best in Long Gown kag Best in Swimsuit awards.
Sa iya send-off party, ginpasalamatan sini ang suporta sang Filipino kag local designers nga nagpahulam sang ila creations kag amo ang iya ginsuksok sa pageant.
Matandaan nga nakig-partner ang Face of Beauty pageant sa Miss World Philippines franchise sa idalom ni Arnold Vegafria.
Kasado na ang American singer-songwriter nga si Charlie Puth sa iya fiancée kag long-time friend nga si Brooke Sansone.
Mismo ang 32-anyos nga pop singer ang nagkumpirma paagi sa pag-post sang ila wedding picture kag isa ka romantic message sa iya nga bride.
Ginpatigayon ang seremonya sang Septyembre 7.
Apisar mag-abyanay, sang Hunyo 2022 pa lamang sila nag-sugod sa pag-date kag isa ka tuig ang nakaligad, nag-propose na ang singer-songwriter.
Kilala si Charlie nga isa ka “Marvin Gaye” hitmaker kag may hits man nga “We Don’t Talk Anymore (feat.
Miley Cyrus, nagapangatubang sang lawsuit bangud sa iya kanta nga “Flowers”
Nagapangatubang subong ang pop singer nga si Miley Cyrus sang lawsuit bangud sa iya hit song nga “Flowers.”
Base sa lawsuit, ginkopya ni Cyrus ang “When I Was Your Man” nga kanta ni Bruno Mars.
Ini nga reklamo nga copyright infringement sang Tempo Music Investments, naga- claim nga ginapanag-iyahan sini ang share sang copyright para sa “When I Was Your Man” nga kanta.
Gina-claim sang Tempo Music nga madamo sang musical similarities sa tunga sang ambahahon nga “Flowers” kag “When I Was Your Man” kag maathag nga resulta ini sang hungod nga pagkopya ni Miley kay Bruno.
Suno sa Tempo Music, ang melody, harmony kag chorus sa “Flowers” ang pareho sa mga verse sa “When I Was Your Man.”
Matandaan nga nagdaug sang Grammy Award si Cyrus para sa “Flowers.”
Wala pa sang sabat ang kampo ni Miley kaangot diri.
Dal-on nanday Sharon Cuneta kag Gabby Concepcion ang ila “Dear Heart” reunion show sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika kag Canada subong nga tuig.
Sa separado nga announcement sang anay mag-asawa, ginpahayag nga matabo ang ila collaboration sa shows sa Oktubre kag sa Nobyembre.
Matandaan nga una ginpatigayon sang duha ang reunion concert sa Cebu kag Pasay City sang October kag November 2023.
Ini nga show ang gin-base sa pelikula sang 1981 nga may amo man nga tig-ulo.
Una na gin-ako sang singer-actress nga siya kag si Gabby ang maga-updanay kuntani sila sa show nga “P.S.
I Love You” apang wala nadayon ang mga negosasyon.
Kasado sila nga duha sang 1984, may isa ka anak nga amo ang actress-singer nga si KC Concepcion, apang gin-annul ang ila kasal sang 1987.
Malipayon subong ang ex-couple sa ila bag-o nga partners — si Sharon kay former senator Francis “Kiko” Pangilinan, samtang si Gabby naman sa non-showbiz wife nga si Genevieve Yatco Gonzales.
Hayag-hayagan nga ginpakita ni anay US Donald Trump ang iya kaugot sa American pop superstar nga si Taylor Swift.
Gin-post sang former president ang mga tinaga nga “I HATE TAYLOR SWIFT!”, all caps, sa iya Truth Social platform kag wala na sang gindugang nga komentaryo ukon anuman nga paathag.
Klaro ang context para sa kadam-an sa Amerika ilabi na bangud sinemana na lang ang gina-isip antes ang presidential elections.
Matandaan nga pagkatapos sang debate nanday Trump kag Democrat nga si Vice President Kamala Harris sang nagligad nga semana, nag-post ang superstar singer/songwriter sa Instagram nga magaboto siya kay Harris bangud isa ini ka “steady-handed, gifted leader.”
Pagkatapos sang amo nga post, nakasabat si Trump sa interview sang Fox News nga indi man siya fan sang amo nga singer/
Inadlaw matapos sini, nagsugod na ang Trump campaign sa pagbaligya sang shirts nga “Trump Era Shirt” nga daw kaangay nga gin-ilog ang poster sa billion-dollar grossing “Eras” tour ni Taylor.
Indi ini ang una nga bes nga may ginsabat si Trump nga celebrity apang ang direkta sini nga atake kay Taylor ang makabig nga dramatic subplot sa election season.
Nahibaluan nga ang endorsement ni Swift kay Harris iya most high-profile political statement nga nahimo bilang isa ka popular nga singer.
Ahtisa Manalo, nagdaog sa ‘First Station’ sang Miss Cosmo People’s Choice voting
Napamatud-an na naman nga buhi gid ang “bayanihan” spirit sang mga Pinoy sa pageant scene sang nagpanguna ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas nga si Ahtisa Manalo sa “first station” sang “Cosmo People’s Choice” online poll sa Miss Cosmo 2024.
Suno sa organisasyon, ang Filipina candidate ang makabaton sang “special ‘Hope Star’ boost (x2 voting points) sa Final Stage: The Big Bang, private photoshoot, VIP party, 24-hour media team support, kag tyansa nga ma-take over ang Instagram sang Cosmo sa sulod sang 24 oras.”
May nabilin pa nga duha ka rounds para sa award nga amo ang “National Pride” kag “Big Bang.”
Ang final winner amo naman ang awtomatiko nga makakuha sang slot sa Top 10 sang Miss Cosmo 2024.
Nahibaluan nga leading man si Ahtisa sa isa pa gid ka Miss Cosmo online poll nga amo ang karera sa “Cosmo Social Ambassador” award nga ang winner awtomatiko nga sulod sa Top 21.
Ang voting details sa sini nga duha ka polls ang naka-post man sa social media accounts sang pageant.
Patigayunon ang Miss Cosmo 2024 pageant halin sa September 15 tubtub sa October 5 sa Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
Mayo sang ginhingadlan si Ahtisa nga Miss Cosmo Philippines 2024.
Indi siya bag-uhan sa international pageant bangud natiglawas na sini anay Pilipinas sa Miss International pageant sang 2018 kun sa diin siya ang napilian nga first runner-up.#
Nakabalik na sa Pilipinas ang anay Queen of All Media nga si Kris Aquino matapos ang tinuig nga pagpuyo sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika para sa health treatment.
Nakumpirma ini sa official fan account ni Kris sa X (formerly Twitter) kun sa diin ginpakita sini ang airport view halin sa sulod sang eroplano kun sa diin iya ginsiling, “Touched down… hello Manila.”
Sang Huwebes, ginpahayag sang actress-host nga magapauli siya para suguran ang ikaduha nga immunosuppressant infusion nga patigayunon sa masunod nga sinemana.
Gintawag man niya ini nga “fight of my life” kag kinahanglan niya ang suporta nga mahatag sang iya mga utod, pakaisa, kag mga abyan.
Magluwas diri, may ginahulat pa gid nga resulta sa duha ka dugang nga posible nga autoimmune conditions.
Sang Pebrero, gin-share ni Kris sa iya abyan nga host nga si Boy Abunda nga crucial period sa iya ang masunod nga anum ka bulan bangud may ginatilawan siya nga bag-o nga bulong para nga mapaayo ang kondisyon sang iya korason.
Ginpahayag man sini anay nga magaumpisa na sa pagtrabaho ang iya anak nga si Bimby paea nga makabulig sa iya medical bills.#
Nakahimo sang bag-o nga rekord ang American pop superstar nga si Taylor Swift bilang most-awarded solo artist sa maragtas sang prestihiyoso nga MTV Video Music Awards.
Ini matapos pito gid ang iya nadag-an subong nga tuig sa seremonya nga ginpatigayon sa UBS Arena sa New York.
Bangud sini, kabug-usan nga 30 ka Moonman trophies na ang naangkon sang 34-anyos nga singer-wongwriter nga lapaw pa sa solo artist record ni Beyonce nga may 26 wins.
Magluwas diri, ang All Too Well singer ang nakaguba man sa iya kaugalingon nga rekord sang nadag-an sini ang Video of the Year award nga amo ang nagahimo sa iya bilang isahanon nga artist nga nakadaog sa amo nga pasidungog sa tatlo ka sunod-sunod nga tuig.
Nahibaluan nga 2024 VMA, may 12 ka nominasyon para kay Taylor.
Nagtambong siya sa red carpet event nga nagasuksok sang edgy plaid corset nga may train kag high-waisted velvet shorts halin sa Dior.
Ginpasalamatan sini ang iya fans sa pagboto sa VMA honors kag naghingyo man sa publiko nga magboto para sa palaabuton nga US presidential elections.
Una sini gin-endorso ang Democrat candidate nga si Vice President Kamala Harris sa Instagram post sang Martes, apang wala na niya gin-mensyonar ang pangalan sini sa seremonya.
Abril sang gin-release sini ang official music video para sa Fortnight nga isa sa mga kanta sa iya latest album nga The Tortured Poets Department.
‘Balota’, ipalantaw sa Hawaii International Film Festival
Balantayan ang international premiere sang pelikula nga “Balota” sa 44th Hawaii International Film Festival sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Tatlo ang screening dates sini nga amo ang October 6 kag 12 sa Consolidated Theaters Kahala kag October 21 sa Lanai Theater sa Hale Keaka.
Mangin available naman ang tickets paagi sa website sang theater.
Magluwas diri, magabalik man ini sa mga sinehan sa Pilipinas umpisa sa October 16 nga may bag-o nga cut.
Bida sa pelikula nga ini si Marian Rivera nga ginsulat kag gin-direct ni Kip Oebanda.
Isa ini ka istorya sang land-grabbing tycoon kag former male sexy actor nga naga-sumpunganay sa mayoral seat sa isa ka gamay nga banwa.
Sang natabo ang mga ginamo, isa ka teacher ang nagpalagyo sa kagulangan dala ang box sang balota nga nagaunod sang kopya sang resulta sang eleksyon.
Si Marian amo ang nagadala sang papel ni Teacher Emmy kag siya anay ang ginhingadlan nga Best Actress sa Cinemalaya awards night.
Magluwas sa iya, yara man sa cast sanday Sassa Gurl kag Esnyr, Will Ashley, Royce Cabrera, Raheel Bhyria, Nico Antonio, Donna Cariaga, Joel Saracho, Sue Prado, Mae Paner, kag Gardo Versoza.
Liwat nga magaupdanay ang iconic ’90s dance group nga The Streetboys sa isa ka reunion concert sa Nobyembre 8.
Sa isa ka Instagram post, ginpakigbahin ni Vhong Navarro ang detalye sang amo nga reunion concert.
Ang Streetboys isa ka dance group nga gintukod ni Chito Roño sang 1993.
Ila ginpasikat ang dance moves pareho sang “Mmbop” kag “I Saw the Sign” kag kilala bangud sa ila acrobatic dance moves.
Ang The Streetboys’ reunion concert ang i- produce sang singer-songwriter nga si Ogie Alcasid sa idalom sang iya company nga A-Team.
Pilipinas, ikatatlo nga pungsod sa may pinakamatahum nga mga tawo sandig sa pageant results — study
Nagaguwa sa isa ka pagtuon nga nagapangatlo ang Pilipinas sa mga pungsod nga may pinakamatahum nga mga babaye kun basehan ang performance sa international beauty pageants.
Sa ila methodology, may tatlo ka puntos ang titleholders, may dos puntos sa first runner-ups, kag tres puntos naman para sa second runner-ups.
Ang Pilipinas ang may 16 titleholders, 12 first runner-ups, kag pito ka second runner-ups kag may kabug-usan nga beauty score nga 79.
Nagpanguna naman ang Venezuela (127) samtang nagsunod ang United States (125).
Nahibaluan nga kilala ang Pilipinas nga may apat na ka korona sa Miss Universe paagi kanday Gloria Diaz, Margie Moran, Pia Wurtzbach, kag Catriona Gray.
Maroon 5, balik-concert sa Pilipinas sa Enero 2025
Magabalik sa Pilipinas ang American pop rock band nga Maroon 5 sa masunod nga tuig.
Suno sa promoter nga Live Nation Asia, live nga maga-perform ang banda sa pagpanguna ni Adam Levine sa Mall of Asia Arena sa Enero 29, 2025.
Kabahin ang one-night show sa ila 2025 Asia tour nga may yara man sang pitstops sa Japan, Indonesia, Kuala Lumpur, Thailand kag Taiwan.
Natalana pa nga ipaguwa ang iban nga impormasyon kaangay sang seat plan kag ticketing details.
Ini na ang ikaapat nga concert sang Maroon 5 sa Pilipinas.
Nakakadto sila diri sang 2015, 2019, kag katapusan nga naka-perform sang 2022 bilang parte sang ila world tour.
Gintukod ini sang 1994 kag kilala sa ila hit songs nga “Moves Like Jagger,” “She Will Be Loved,”, “Payphone,” kag iban pa.
Selena Gomez, isa na ka billionaire sa edad nga 32 — Bloomberg
Nalab-ot na sang aktres, singer, kag entrepreneur nga si Selena Gomez ang billionaire status sa edad nga 32-anyos.
Suno sa financial data kag media company nga Bloomberg, isa na si Selena sa youngest self-made billionaires sa United States — pareho kanday Taylor Swift kag Rihanna — nga may net worth nga $1.3 billion (P73.1 billion).
Ginpahayag nga kadam-an sa manggad sini ang naghalin sa iya makeup line nga Rare Beauty nga iya ginbuksan sang 2019.
Magluwas pa ini sa iya earnings bilang isa ka entertainer kag wala-tuo nga brand endorsements kaangay sa Louis Vuitton, Coach kag Puma.
Sa mga endorsement, daku nga bulig kay Selena ang iya 424 million followers sa social media platform nga Instagram.
Siya subong ang most-followed woman sa kalibutan kag third-most overall kasunod sa football stars nga sanday Cristiano Ronaldo kag Lionel Messi sa amo nga platform.
Nabun-ag si Selena sa Texas kag halos tatlo ka dekada na nga kilala sa show business.
Bilang isa ka artista, lakip sa kontrobersiya sa iya amo ang fashion kag boyfriends, kag naistoryahan man mangin ang iya ikaayong lawas lakip ang pagka-diagnose nga may bipolar disorder kag autoimmune disease nga lupus.
Matandaan nga sang Abril, ang suod nga abyan ni Selena nga si Taylor ang matunog man nga gin-istoryahan sang nakasulod ini sa billionaire list bangud sa iya nga “Eras” tour.
MTRCB, pinal na ang X rating sa pelikula nga ‘Dear Satan’
Ginpanindugan sang Movie and Television Review and Classification Board (MTRCB) nga pinal na ang X rating nga ginhatag sini sa pelikula nga “Dear Satan.”
Bida sa sini nga Christmas-themed movie ang actor nga si Paolo Contis kag ang child star nga si Sienna Stevens.
Sang una nga nagpaguwa sang desisyon ang review body, gin-islan sang production team ang title sang pelikula sa “Dear Santa” para nga mas ma-reflect ang mensahe sini nga gusto ipalab-ot sa audience.
Apisar sini, wala gin-islan sang review body ang ila desisyon kag X ini gihapon — buot silingon, indi ini pwede ipakita sa mga sinehan.
Gin-cite sang MTRCB nga nalapas sang film ang Presidential Decree No.
1986 (PD 1986) kun sa diin ginadumilian ang exhibition sang films kag TV shows nga may pagpang-atake sa rasa, pagpati, ukon relihiyon.
Suno kay MTRCB Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer Lala Sotto-Antonio, base sa review sang committee, nagagguwa gid nga “distorted” ang depiction kay Satanas kag wala ini nagsanto sa mga ginatudlo kag pagpati sang mga Kristiyano kag Simbahan.
Ang “Dear Satan” amo ang istorya ni Satan (Contis) nga aksidente lang nga nakabaton sang sulat halin sa bata nga para kuntani kay Santa Claus.
Nagpakig-abyan ini sa bata (Stevens) kag nagtinguha ini nga impluwensyahan ang bata nga mangin malain, apang nagpabilin nga inosente kag mabuot ang bata.#
Iya Villania, Drew Arellano, ginapaabot na ang ila baby no.
Gin-anunsyo sang celebrity couple nga sanday Iya Villania kag Drew Arellano nga ginapaabot na nila subong ang ila baby no.
Sa joint Instagram Reel, nag-upod ang Arellano family kag nagsaot sa “Mambo No.
Ang kabataan nga sanday Primo, Leon, Alana, kag Astro ang isa-isa nga nagpakita (pasunod sa ila birthdays) kag sang nag-abot na ang kanta sa number five, ginpakita na ang picture sang ultrasound.
Ginbaha naman sang sunlog kag mensahe sang pagpanginbulahan ang comments section lakip na sanday Rocco Nacino, Jericho Rosales, Valeen Montenegro, Nikki Gil, Iza Calzado, kag iban pa.
10 ka tuig na nga magkahugma sanday Iya kag Drew antes sila nagpakasal sang 2014.
Nabun-ag si Primo sang 2016, si Leon sang 2018, si Alana sang 2020, kag si Astro sang 2022.#
Kristine Hermosa, Oyo Boy Sotto, gin-welcome ang ila ika-anum na nga baby
Malipayon nga ginsug-alaw nanday Kritine Hermosa kag Oyo Boy Sotto ang panibag-o nga miyembro sang ila pamilya.
Ini amo si Baby Isaiah Timothy nga amo na ang ika-anum nila nga anak!
Mismo si Oyo Boy ang nag-post sang laragway sa Instagram kun sa diin nakit-an ang ila kabataan nga sanday Kiel, Ondrea, Kaleb, Marvin, kag Isaac nga nakalinya sa pagpungko sa couch samtang yara sa butkon ni Ondrea ang ila kamanghuran nga utod.
Napuno naman sang pagpanginbulahan sanday Oyo kag Kristine halin sa fans kag mangin celebrities.
Matandaan nga 2011 sang ginkasal ang celebrity couple kag Pebrero naman sang gin-anunsyo ang pagbusong ni Kristine sa ila ika-anum na nga baby.
Arlene Muhlach, nag-graduate sa college sa edad nga 55-anyos
Napuno sang pagpanginbulahan ang seasoned actress nga si Arlene Muhlach matapos ginpakigbahin sini ang maayo nga balita kaangot sa iya pagtapos sa Bachelor of Arts in Communication sa Philippine Women’s University.
Ginpakita sang 55-anyos nga aktres ang iya graduation photo amo man ang mga laragway sa seremonya sa Philippine International Convention Center (PICC).
Pahayag sini, nag-untat siya sang una sa ikatatlo na kuntani nga tuig sa kolehiyo agud nga pasulabihon ang iya showbiz career kag pamilya.
Subong, napamatud-an sini nga malab-ot sini ang iya handum apisar sang iya edad.
Ginpasalamatan sini ang iya professors kag blockmates sa Expanded Tertiary Education Equivalency and Accreditation Program (ETEEAP) bangud sa ila pagsalig sa iya abilidad.
Malipayon man si Arlene sa suporta sang iya bana kag kabataan amo man ang pasensya sang iya office mates sa Internal Revenue Services department sang Commission of Appointments.
Lakip sa nag-congratulate sa iya amo sanday Gelli De Belen, Ruffa Gutierrez, Lara Quigaman, Nadia Montenegro, Rita Avila, kag Edu Manzano.
Si Arlene nga utod ni Aga Muhlach ang kilala sa shows kag mga pelikula kaangay sang “A Love to Last,” “Pangako Sa’yo,” “May Bukas Pa,” kag“Walang Hanggan.”
Sa iya Instagram broadcast channel, gin-anunsyo sini nga mangin kabahin siya sang amo nga pageant bilang paagi sa paghatag-dungog sa heritage sang iya amay.
Apang ginplastar sini nga indi gid madula sa iya ang iya Filipino roots: “Mahal kong Pilipinas, lagi kayong nasa puso ko.
Nahibaluan nga yara sa bag-o nga management ang Miss Universe organization sa amo nga pungsod.
Antes ang anunsyo ni VVV, ginkumpirma na nga ang Filipino Kiwi model-turned-actress nga si Franki Russell ang magatiglawas sang amo nga pungsod sa idalom sang Yugen PR management apang nag-withdraw ini sang ang local license holder sang Miss Universe New Zealand ang nag-cancel sang franchise bangud sa indi pag-comply sa specific order sang organization.
Patigayunon ang koronasyon sa amo nga pageant sa September 29 sa Dorothy Winstone Centre Performing Arts Theatre.
Si Victoria nga nabun-ag kag nagdaku sa New Zealand ang nag-compete diri sa Pilipinas sang 2021 kun sa diin nakuha sini ang title nga Miss Universe Philippines Charity sang ginrepresentar ang Cavite.
Sa recent edition sang Miss Universe Philippines, gintiglawas sini ang Bacoor City kag nagtapos sa semi-final round.
‘Going Home to Christmas’: Musical nga maga-feature sang Jose Mari Chan songs, balantayan
Nakapamati na bala ang tanan sa “Christmas in Our Hearts”?
Basta magsugod na gani ang ber months, awtomatiko na dayon nga nagatukar ini nga musika nga himo sang Ilonggo singer-songwriter nga si Jose Mari Chan!
Kaangot diri, isa ka musical nga maga-feature sa music ni Chan ang iga-stage sa maabot nga Nobyembre.
Suno sa Filipino theater company nga Repertory Philippines, ang musical nga “Going Home To Christmas: A Jose Mari Chan Musical” ang patigayunon sa Nobyembre 29 sa Carlos P.
Romulo Auditorium sa RCBC Plaza sa Makati.
Siya ang naga-uyat sang record sa best-selling albums sa Philippine music history nga amo ang Christmas in Our Hearts (1990) sa number one, kag ginasundan sang iya 1989 record nga Constant Change.
Nahibaluan nga tinuig na nga popular ang musicals sa Pilipinas nga naga-sentro sa discography sang Pinoy artists.
Lakip diri ang Rak of Aegis nga naga-feature sa Aegis; Eto Na!
Musikal nAPO nga inspired sa mga kanta sang Apo Hiking Society; Sa Wakas nga kanta naman sang alternative rock band nga Sugarfree; kag ang Ang Huling El Bimbo nga tribute sa music sang influential ’90s band nga Eraserheads.#
Magabalik si anay Miss Universe Organization president Paula Shugart sa pageant scene paagi sa pagpungko bilang judge sa Miss Cosmo International 2024.
Gin-anunsyo sang international pageant ang partisipasyon sini paagi sa pag-cite sa iya impressive career pareho sa beauty pageant kag television production.
Magluwas sa shows sa major networks kaangay sang ABC, NBC, MTV, kag Columbia Pictures, miyembro man si Paula sang Director’s Guild of America kag Producers Guild of America.
Matandaan nga nagpanaog sa pwesto si Paula sang Nobyembre kadungan sang preliminary competition sang 72nd Miss Universe pageant sa El Salvador.
Kun balikan, nag-upod siya sang 1998 bilang vice president sang production sa Miss Universe organization kag tatlo ka tuig ang nagligad, siya ang nangin presidente.
Gin-uyatan niya ang entire business operations kag ginpangunahan ang production sang tuigan nga live global telecast.
Si Ahtisa Manalo amo ang tiglawas sang Pilipinas.
Naubos na sa sulod lamang sang halos tatlo ka oras ang tickets para sa una kag ikaduha nga adlaw sang concert sang P-pop girl group nga BINI.
Bangud sold-out na ang tickets online, gin-anunsyo sang organizers kag music label nga Star Music nga indi na lang pagpadayunon ang general public selling subong kuntani nga Agusto 31.
Ang “Grand BINIverse” concert ang patigayunon sa Nobyembre 16 kag 17 sa Smart Araneta Coliseum sa Quezon City.
Sanday Mikha, Aiah, Colet, Maloi, Gwen, Stacey, Jhoanna, kag Sheena ang nagabug-os sa BINI nga nag-debut sang 2021 sa single nga “Born to Win.”
Kilala man sila sa ila hit songs nga”Na, Na, Na,” “Huwag Muna Tayong Umuwi,” “Lagi,” “Pantropiko”, “Salamin, Salamin,” “Cherry on Top,” kag iban pa.
Sang Hunyo, nangin madinalag-on man ang three-night concert sang Bini sa Quezon City nga amo ang “BINIverse.”
Nakahimo man sila sang maragtas sang Hulyo bilang una nga P-Pop group nga nag-perform sa KCON LA 2024 particular sa “M Countdown Pre-Show” sa Crypto.com Arena sa Los Angeles, California.
Jhong Hilario, naggradwar nga may “highest merits” sa iya master’s degree sa Public Administration
Naggradwar sang iya Master’s Degree sa Public Administration sa World Citi College ang host nga si Jhong Hilario.
Kaupod sang iya iloy, asawa, kag anak nga babayi, proud nga nagmartsa si Hilario kag nagbaton sang iya diploma gikan sa iya alma mater sa tion sang commencement exercises nga ginhiwat sa PICC Plenary Hall.
Si Jhong ang nalipay gid pagkatapos nga makuha ang “highest merits” para sa iya master program.
Siling niya, bonus na ini sa iya nga paggradwar sa masters.
Ginpahayag man ni Jhong nga ang time management ang yabi — ang pag-juggling sang iya schedule halin sa pagka-konsehal sa Makati City, pag-host sang mga katungdanan sa noontime show kag pagka-amay, asawa, kag estudyante — tanan sa amo man nga tion.
Apang sang ginpamangkot si Jhong ko ngaa importante nga matapos ang iya Master’s?
Ini ang gin-explain ni Jhong, bangud suno sa iya, indi mapakot kon tubtob san-o siya nga mangin artista kag mas makapamaayo para sa iya nga magtuon bangud ang pag-artista ang may kataposan.
Apang ginklaro man sang actor-host nga wala siya nagatinguha nga mag-eskwela para sa mas mataas nga posisyon sa masunod nga eleksyon.
AJ Raval, Aljur Abrenica, nanginwala nga may anak na sila
Ginpanginwala sang celebrity couple nga sanday AJ Raval kag Aljur Abrenica nga nakaangkon na sila sang anak.
Pahayag sang 23-anyos nga aktres, nagpahuway siya anay sa show business bangud gin-una niya ang iya nga pagtuon paagi sa Alternative Learning System (ALS) kag indi bangud nagabusong siya.
Diri man kag gintadlong sini ang halos kada tuig na lang nga espekulasyon nga nagadala na siya sang ila anak ni Aljur.
Parang yearly na lang po akong buntis,” pahayag sini.
“Siguro po kung mabubuntis man ako ngayon, magalit man ‘yung maraming tao, ako pa rin po ‘yung pinakamasayang tao sa buong mundo.”
Ginkatingala man sang actor ang tsismis.
Sabi ko, ‘Bakit natsi-tsismis na may anak kami?
Gin-ako sang duha nga kabahin sang ila plano ang pagtukod sang kaugalingon nga pamilya, apang sa subong ang ila prayoridad amo ang ila karera kag ang duha ka una nga anak ni Aljur sa anay asawa sini nga si Kylie Padilla.
Alam mo si AJ, she’s very supportive, especially pag dating sakin kung paano ko alagaan ‘yung mga bata.
Sometimes siya pa nga ‘yung nakakakita ng mga ano, ‘Alam mo ba ganto hilig ng mga anak mo’ kasi minsan hindi ko nakikita,” pagpakigbahin ni Abrenica.
“[Pero] ang focus ngayon ‘yung mga bata.
Si AJ, marami pang pweeng mangyari sa career niya,” dugang sini.
Nahibaluan nga nangin sentro na sang pregnancy rumors si AJ halin sang ginkumpirma ang ila relasyon sang 2022.
Una nga gin-alegar nga si AJ ang nangin rason sa separasyon nanday Kylie kag Aljur, apang ginklaro ni Kylie sang Marso 2023 nga indi mistress si AJ kag naghingyo man ini sa publiko nga likawan ang pag-bash sa young actress.
SB19 kag BINI, ginhatagan sang “Voices of Asia” award sa Billboard K Power 100 sa South Korea
Ginpasidunggan ang P-pop powerhouse nga SB19 kag P-pop girl group nga BINI sang “Voices of Asia” award sa Billboard K Power 100 event sa Seoul, South Korea.
Suno kay Stell, main vocalist sang male group, ang award naga-validate sang ila pagtinguha nga i- represent ang Filipino talent kag culture kag ipakita ini sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Nagpabutyag man ini sang ila pagpasalamat sa ila supporters, pamilya, kag abyan para sa sini nga milestone sa ila career.
Magluwas sa pagbaton sang award, nangin kahigayunan man ini sa duha ka group nga ipadayaw ang OPM matapos nga gin-perform sang SB19 ang “Gento,” samtang nagperform man ang Bini sang medley sang “Cherry on Top” kag “Pantropiko.”
Napilian ang Hong Kong-born martial arts actor nga si Jackie Chan bilang isa sa torchbearers antes ang nagahilapit nga opening ceremony sang 2024 Paralympics sa Paris, France.
Ang 70-anyos nga renowned actor nga kilala sa iya stunts kag acrobatic fight scenes ang magadala sang torch halin sa Mierkules sang hapon sa Paris.
Ang seremonya ang patigayunon sa Stade de France nga may kabahin nga parada halin sa Champs-Elysees pakadto sa Place de la Concorde sa central Paris.
Sang weekend sang ginpasiga ang torch sa Stoke Mandeville sa United Kingdom nga amo ang historic birthplace sang Paralympic Games kag nag-abot ini sa France paagi sa Channel Tunnel sang Domingo kag gindala sang wheelchair fencing medalist nga si Emmanuelle Assmann.
Iga-multiply ini nga sulu sa 12 Paralympic flames kag dal-on sang 1,000 torchbearers sa ginabanta 50 towns sa 12 ka simultaneous relays.
Pormal nga magasugod ang Paralympics 2:00 sa kaagahon sa Huwebes, Agusto 29 (oras sa Pilipinas) kag magatakop sa Domingo, Septyembre 8.
May anum ka Filipinos nga maga-compete subong sa Paris nga amo ang biggest delegation sang Pilipinas sa amo nga quadrennial meet halin sang 2012.
Magapanguna sa Filipino Paralympians ang flagbearers nga amo ang beterano nga para swimmer nga si Ernie Gawilan kag para archer nga si Agustina Bantiloc.
All-set na ang OPM iconic rock band nga Rivermaya para sa 7-city North America tour sa Septyembre kag Oktubre subong nga tuig.
Matapos ang ila madinalag-on nga reunion concert sang nagligad nga Pebrero, dal-on nanday Bamboo, Rico Blanco, Mark Escueta kag Nathan Azarcon ang ila nga classic hits sa Filipino fans sa United States kag Canada.
Para kanday Bamboo kag Blanco, ini nga once-in-a-lifetime reunion tour ang pat-od gid nga mangin “intimate, personal” kag syempre, madamo sang dapat paabuton nga sorpresa ang fans!
Lakip sa naanunsyo nga kadtuan sang banda amo ang Vancouver, Toronto, kag Alberta sa Canada; New York City sa USA; kag Temecula, Los Angeles, kag San Francisco sa California sa Estados Unidos.
Una na nga gin-anunsyo sang banda nga magluwas sa US kag Canada, may natalana man sila nga performance sa Middle East, Singapore, Australia kag London.
Sanday Bamboo, Mark, Nathan Azarcon kag Rico kaupod si Perf de Castro amo gid ang original members sang Rivermaya nga nangin popular umpisa sang 1994 bangud sa ila hit songs kaangay sang “214,” “Kisapmata,” “Elesi,” kag “Awit ng Kabataan.”
‘Parasite’ actor nga si Lee, hatagan sang posthumous award sa Busan film fest
Igahatag ang isa ka posthumous award sa late South Korean actor nga si Lee Sun-kyun kadungan sang Busan International Film Festival nga amo ang pinakadaku sa Asya.
Pinakakilala sang fans si Lee sa iya papel sa 2019 Oscar-winning film nga “Parasite”.
Matandaan nga hinali nga gin-anunsyo ang iya kamatayon sang Disyembre 2023 kun sa diin nagguwa nga isa ka suicide incident ang natabo sandig sa duha ka bulan nga police investigation kag gina-angot man sa paggamit sang iligal nga droga.
Ang Korea Cinema Award sa film fest ang ginahatag sa filmmakers nga nagpasaka sang status sang Korean cinema kag nag-amot sang daku para makilala ini sa bug-os nga kalibutan.
Napilian sang festival nga ihatag ini nga award kay Lee bangud nakuha sini ang buot sang domestic kag international film fans.
Sa award ceremony sa Oktubre 2, malakip man sa programa ang katapusan nga obra-maestra ni Lee nga “Land of Happiness” (2024) kun sa diin ginadala sang late actor ang papel bilang isa ka military solider kadungan sang South Korean authoritarian period sang 1970s.
Graduate si Lee sang prestihiyoso nga Korea National University of Arts kag isa sa pinakakilala sa South Korea nga nakabaton sang wala-tuo nga awards sa lain-lain nga mga papel sini halin sang iya debut sang 2000s.
Mag-bestfriends nga Ilongga, daog sa Dancesport competition sa Malaysia kag Singapore
Duha ka mga Ilongga ang nagdala sang bugal sa Iloilo City matapos nagdaog sa Johor Hibiscus Open Dancesport Championship 2024 nga ginpatigayon sang Agusto 17 sa Malaysia kag Merlion Open Dancesport Championship 2024 nga ginpatigayon sang Agusto 18 sa Singapore.
Ini amo ang mag-classmates kag mag-abyan nga sanday Nicole Mae Doronila Gonzaga sang Bitoon, Jaro, Iloilo City kag Jay Marie Pearl Sabran Gerona sang Barangay Balabago, Jaro, Iloilo City.
Sanday Gonzaga kag Gerona ang classmates sang elementary sa Jaro 1 Elementary School kag sa subong grade 10 student sa Iloilo National High School.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Gonzaga, iya ginpahayag nga bata pa lang sila ni Pearl, nahiligan na nila ang dancesport.
Gin-ako man sini nga indi mahapos ang dancesport, apang bangud passion niya ini kag sa bulig man sang iya abyan, nangin maayo man ang bunga sini.
Samtang suno naman kay Gerona, nagtuon ini sa studio sang dancesport.
Siya man ang naga-isahanon sa ila pamilya nga mahilig sa saot bangud kalabanan sa mga ini ang nakatutok sa musika.
Nalipay man ini bangud nagbunga sang mayo ang pagtinguha nila sang iya abyan apisar sa mga pagpanghangkat nga ila naagyan.
Sa Malaysia, nangin Champion ang mga ini sa Synchronised Chacha kag Synchronised Rumba.
Samtang, sa Singapore naman, champion naman ang mga ini sa Synchronised 16 years and below – Rumba – Latin.
Philippine Youth Iloilo 2024, ginplastar ang ila mga advocacy
ILOILO CITY – Wala sang katupong nga kalipay ang nabatyagan sang mga nagdaog sa Mister and Miss Philippine Youth Iloilo 2024.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Tan, iya ginpahayag nga proud siya nga nakadaog sa pageant.
Suno kay Tan nga isa subong ka Bachelor of Science in Nursing student sa West Visayas State University, pinaagi sa nasambit nga pageant napakita niya ang iya advocacy nga anti-bullying.
Samtang, suno naman kay Toroy, bilang isa ka graduate sang Bachelor of Science in Fisheries, ang iya ginpahayag dako ini nga kahigayunan nga ipaintindi nga ang Fisheries ang kabahin sang kabuhi.
Nangin palaagyan naman ang pageant suno kay Gaitan agud ipakita sini ang iya advocacy nga climate change awareness.
Si Gaitan ang nagtapos sa kurso nga Bachelor of Secondary Education major in MAPEH.
Ang mga winners ang magatiglawas naman sang syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo sa palaabuton nga national pageant sa Enero 2025.
Richard Gutierrez, Daniel Padilla, maga-updanay sa upcoming series nga ‘Incognito’
Magatingob-pwersa sanday Daniel Padilla kag Richard Gutirrez para sa isa ka palaabuton nga proyekto nga “Incognito.”
Lakip man sa ila makaupod sa series amo sanday Baron Geisler, Kaila Estrada, Ian Veneracion kag ang breakthrough tandem nanday Maris Racal kag Anthonny Jennings.
Sa nag-guwa nga teaser video, nakit-an nga kada cast member ang naga-uyat sang rifle kag may suksok nga bulletproof vests kag uniform.
Wala pa sang dugang nga detalye nga gin-release kun san-o ini malantaw sang publiko kag kun ano pa gid ang balantayan sa istorya.
Katapusan nga nakit-an si Richard sa action-series nga “The Iron Heart” samtang ang katapusan naman nga proyekto ni Daniel sa telebisyon amo ang “2 Good 2 Be True.”
Pareho man sila nga na-involve sa matunog nga kontrobersiya matapos ang pagbulaganay ni Richard kag iya anay asawa nga si Sarah Lahbati; samtang si Daniel naman ang halin man sa break-up sa iya long-time partner nga si Kathryn Bernardo.
41 ka mga kabataan, patay matapos nga gin-circumcise
Wala naganubo sa 41 ka mga kabataan nga lalaki ang ginbawian sang kabuhi matapos magpaidalom sa traditional circumcision kaangot sang ila initiation rites ukon seremonya sa South Africa.
Ini nga mga insidente ang natabo halin Nobyembre tubtob Disyembre 2025.
Ang amo nga tradisyon ang padayon nga ginapatuman sang pila ka ethnic groups sa Africa, ilabi na sa Xhosa, Ndebele, Sotho, kag Venda.
Sa amo nga ritwal, ginadala ang mga kabataan sa mga initiation schools agud matudluan sang tradisyon, mga prinsipyo, kag mga obligasyon bilang mga yara na sa insakto nga pang-edaron.
Bangud sa mga nagluntad nga kamatayon, ginpatuman sang Gobyerno sang South Africa ang mga layi nga nagapangayo nga marehistro ang tanan nga initiation schools.
Suno kay Velenkosini Hlabisa, Minister of Traditional Affairs sang South Africa, ang 41 ka napatay sa summer initiation sang tuig 2025 ang resulta sang kapabayaan sang pila ka initiation schools lakip na ang mga rehistrado.
Ginpahayag man ni Hlabisa nga madamo ang mga sala nga mga pagpati sa pungdsod ilabi na sa mga etniko nga grupo, kaangay sang indi pag-inom sang tubig bangud ginapatihan nga indi ini makapadasig sang pag-ayo sang pilas.
Dugang pa niya, 41 na man ka persona ang gindakop sang mga awtoridad sa mga illegal initiation schools amo man sa mga ginikanan nga nagsumiter sang sala nga edad sang ila kabataan agud makapaidalom na sa ritwal.
Base sa layi sang South Africa, ang mga kabataan nga 16-anyos pasaka lamang ang ginatugutan nga magpaidalom sa initiation schools.
Isa ka pasyente, patay matapos makabaton sang organ transplant nga infected sang rabies
Patay ang isa ka pasyente sa Estados Unidos matapos makabaton sang organ transplant halin sa isa ka indibidwal nga may rabies.
Suno sa Toledo-Lucas County Health Department sa Ohio, ang pasyente ang taga-Michigan apang ginabulong sa Lucas County, Ohio sang Disyembre 2024.
Ang kidney nga gin-transplant sa iya halin sa donor nga indi residente sang Michigan ukon Ohio, suno sa Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS).
Sa isa ka pahayag, ginklaro sang University of Toledo Medical Center nga sa ila ospital sa Ohio nahimo ang kidney transplant kag nagtaliwan ang pasyente sang Enero, matapos ang transplant nga ginpatigayon sa katapusan nga bulan sang tuig 2024.
Ginpat-ud sang Michigan DHHS, Ohio Department of Health kag Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) nga wala sang risgo sa publiko sa duha ka estado sa Estados Unidos.
Suno kay DHHS spokesperson Lynn Sutfin, na-assess na sang mga health officials ang tanan nga nag-upod kag nag-atipan sa pasyente agud masiguro nga wala sang posible nga exposure sa rabies.
Wala na naghatag sang dugang detalye ang mga otoridad nahanungod sa donor kag sa pasyente para sa ila privacy.
IPHO, nagpahanumdom sa mga Ilonggo nga halungan ang ikaayong lawas sa paalabuton nga mga okasyon
Nagpahanumdom ang Iloilo Provincial Health Office sa publiko nga halungan gid ang ikaayong-lawas samtang nagahilapit ang paskwa kag ang bag-ong tuig.
Ini amo ang “Byahealthy Ngayong Pasko” pahanumdom sa nagabyahe nga likawan ang sobra nga pag-inom sa paskwa agud malikawan ang disgrasya.
Ikaduha amo ang “Tamang pagkain, ehersisyo at disiplina” nga isa man ka importante nga pahibalo agud malikawan ang insidente kaangay sang food poisoning kag sobra nga pagkaun sang mga matam-is nga pagkaon.
Ang ikatatlo amo ang “iwas paputok para kumpleto at ligtas sa mga disgrasya” kun sa diin ginarekomendar ang pag-gamit sang mga alternatibo nga pampagahud kaangay sang mga bagay nga patik-patikon, sound system, kag torotot.
PhilHealth, nagpasiguro nga wala sila na-bankrupt, pondo padayon nga mabakod
Ginpahayag sang Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth) nga indi matuod ang mga balita nga ubos na ang ila pondo kag sila ginakabig nga bankrupt.
Suno kay PhilHealth President kag Chief Executive Officer Edwin Mercado, sang siya nagtambong sa pagpamati sang House Committee on Health, padayon pa nga mabakod ang pondo sang ahensiya bangud sang mga ipon halin pa sang nagligad nga tuig.
Ginpabutyag man niya nga may mga tikang na sila nga ginahimo agud mapataas pa ang koleksyon sang ahensiya.
Apang ginpangayo man sang PhilHealth ang dugang nga subsidy halin sa mga mamalidha bangud sang paglapad sang coverage sang mga benepisyo.
Lakip sa ginadugangan nga serbisyo amo ang pagbulong sang cardiovascular diseases, dialysis, kidney operations kag iban pa nga mga critical nga bulong.
Ginpahayag man sang ahensiya nga nagapangayo pa sila sang P21 bilyon nga pondo halin sa Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR) kag Philippine Charity Sweepstakes Office (PCSO) agud masiguro ang padayon nga serbisyo sa publiko.
DOH, ginpasangkad ang monitoring sa tunga sang pagtaas sang kaso sang hand, foot and mouth disease
Ginpasangkad pa sang Department of Health ang monitoring sa tunga sang pagtaas sang kaso sang hand, foot and mouth disease sa pungsod.
Base sa datos sang ahensya sang Agosto 16, naglab-ut na sa 39,893 ang total nga kaso, nga may dugang nga sobra 2,000 sulod lang sang isa ka semana halin sang Agosto 9.
Ginpahayag sang Department of Health nga ang tunga sang mga apektado amo ang mga kabataan nga naga-edad isa tubtob tatlo ka tuig.
Ginkumpirmar man nga nagapakig-angot na ang ahensya sa mga lokal nga panguluhan agud mapabakod ang pagbantay sa mga rehiyon.
Ginpahanumdom sang ahensya nga ang hand, foot and mouth disease isa ka makalalaton nga balatian nga nagalapta paagi sa laway halin sa pag-ubo, pagpangatsi, ukon pag-istorya.
Ginpahanumdom man nga kun may sintomas pareho sang hilanat, singaw sa baba, sakit sa tutunlan kag mga arikis sa kamot kag tiil, kinahanglan dayon magpakonsulta sa health center.
Kag kun mild lang, ginarekomendar ang isolation sa sulod sang pito tubtob napulo ka adlaw kag ang regular nga paglimpyo sang mga gamit kag paghugas sang kamot sulod sang 20 ka segundo.
Gasgas sa non-stick pan ukon kalaha, peligro sa lawas, suno sa mga eksperto
Mahilig ka bala magluto gamit ang non-stick nga pan ukon kalaha?
Base abi mo nga okay lang bisan may gasgas?
Pero suno sa mga eksperto, delikado na ina sa lawas!
Pahanumdom ini sa mga nagagamit sang non-stick cookware sa pagluto, bisan isa lang ka gasgas sa pan ukon kalaha, may posibilidad nga magdala sang peligro sa lawas.
Suno sa pagtuon sang Global Centre for Environmental Remediation, ang gasgas sa Teflon coating sang non-stick pan mahimo magpagwa sang sobra 9,000 ka toxic nano particles.
Ginsiling pa sang mga researcher halin sa Australia nga bisan isa lang ka luto, posible nga magpagwa sang tubtob 2.3 million ka microplastic kag nanoplastic particles.
Ini nga mga particles mahimo magtipon sa sulod sang lawas kag magdala sang hormone disruption, sakit sa mga organs, kag posible nga cancer.
Gani, bilin sang mga eksperto: likawan na ang daan nga non-stick pan kag maggamit sang alternatibo pareho sang stainless steel, cast iron, ukon ceramic cookware.
Garin: Hindi ‘flood control projects’ ang sanhi ng pagtaas ng kaso ng leptospirosis kundi kakulangan sa komunikasyon at implementasyon
Iginiit ni Iloilo 1st District Representative at dating Department of Health Secretary Janette Garin na walang kaugnayan ang tumataas na kaso ng leptospirosis sa ilang bahagi ng bansa sa mga kontrobersyal na flood control projects.
Pahayag ni Garin na ibang usapin umano ang leptospirosis at maling gawing isyu sa pulitika ang pag-uugnay nito sa flood control projects.
Giit niya, ang tunay na problema ay ang kakulangan sa maayos na komunikasyon at implementasyon ng mga programang pangkalusugan, gayong may pondo, gamot, at murang prophylaxis tulad ng doxycycline na hindi nagamit nang maayos.
Batay sa datos ng DOH, umabot na sa 1,272 ang naitalang kaso ng leptospirosis mula Hulyo 13 hanggang Agosto 6, kabilang ang 13 nasawi sa San Lazaro Hospital.
Ang sakit ay nakukuha sa ihi ng hayop tulad ng daga na humahalo sa tubig-baha, na nagdudulot ng lagnat, pagsusuka, pananakit ng kalamnan, at matinding sakit ng ulo.
Masunod nga henerasyon sang kabataan, ginakabig “At Risk” sa HIV, DOH nagpanugyan sang health emergency measures
Ginpanugyan sang Department of Health (DOH) nga yara sa peligro ang masunod nga henerasyon sang kabataan sa Pilipinas bangud sang padayon nga pagsaka sang kaso sang Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), nga posible maglaton sa krisis kun indi maagapan.
Loyd Brendan Norella, HIV Program Manager sang Family Planning Organization of the Philippines (FPOP), iya ginpahayag nga bisan wala pa man nalab-ot ang national threshold sang kaso, ang pagdamo sang HIV infections sa mga vulnerable nga sektor, partikular sa mga naga-edad 15 tubtob 25, isa ka daku nga problema nga kinahanglan tutukan subong pa lang.
Ginbuyagyag man ni Norella sa ginpatigayon nga HIV Town Hall nga padayon nga ginakabig nga problema ang kakulang sa Comprehensive Sexuality Education (CSE), limitado nga akses sa contraceptives, kag ang stigma nga naga-pabilin sa komunidad.
Ini nga mga kabudlayan, suno sa iya, nagapugong sa mga kabataan nga makabaton sang insakto nga impormasyon kag proteksyon kontra sa HIV.
Base sa datos sang DOH, naglab-ot sa 57 na ka bag-o nga kaso sang HIV ang narehistro kada adlaw.
Suno sa AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) Philippines, nagsaka na sa 500% ang kaso sa mga pamatan-on sa sulod lang sang isa ka tuig.
Gani padayon ang panawagan sang AHF sa gobyerno nga magpagwa sang Executive Order nga magadeklara sang HIV bilang public health emergency sa bug-os nga pungsod.
Ginpunto man sang AHF nga kun padayon ang pagbalabag sa condom distribution, posible gid nga ang kabataan subong ang mangin biktima kag ang ila palaabuton nga kabuhi ang maapektuhan.
Matapos ang awake craniotomy, iniligtas naman ang puso: unang ‘IVL Procedure’ sa Western Visayas
Sa isang pangyayaring puno ng pag-aalala ay napalitan ng liwanag at pag-asa, isang 66-anyos na babae ang sumailalim sa isang makabagong pamamaraan upang mailigtas ang kanyang puso.
Ang mga monitor ay maingat na nagbabantay sa kanyang tibok, habang ang mga doktor ay nakatutok sa kanilang misyon, isang misyon na hindi lamang para sa pasyente, kundi para sa kasaysayan ng rehiyon.
Noong Hulyo 23, naisagawa sa The Medical City Iloilo ang kauna-unahang Intravascular Lithotripsy (IVL) sa buong Western Visayas, isang hakbang na muling nagpatunay sa kakayahan ng rehiyon na manguna sa makabagong medisina.
Isang linggo lamang ang nakalipas mula nang isinagawa sa rehiyon ang una ring ‘awake brain surgery’, isang pambihirang tagumpay na kinilala sa buong bansa.
Ang IVL ay isang advanced, minimally invasive na procedure na gumagamit ng sound wave pulses upang durugin ang mga calcium buildup sa coronary arteries.
Sa tulong nito, mas nagiging ligtas at epektibo ang paglalagay ng stent, at naiiwasan ang mas delikadong open-heart surgery, lalo na para sa mga pasyenteng may mataas na panganib.
Ang procedure ay isinagawa sa isang pasyente na may hypertension at family history ng coronary artery disease na natuklasang may malalang pagbabara ito sa tatlong coronary arteries, kabilang na ang critical na pagkipot sa left main coronary artery, isang kondisyon na karaniwang ginagamot sa pamamagitan ng bypass surgery.
Pinangunahan ng mga interventional cardiologists na sina Dr.
Kristy Garganera-Tugbang ng Iloilo at Dr.
James Diaz ng Ortigas ang operasyon, kasama si Dr.
Kristy Garganera-Tugbang, sa programang Doctor Bombo ni Bombo Hannah Andasa, ibinahagi niyang imbes sa open-heart surgery, ay ginamit nila ang kombinasyon ng Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI), Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS), at IVL upang ligtas na maibsan ang kondisyon ng pasyente.
Sa loob lamang ng isang linggo, dalawang makasaysayang operasyon ang naisagawa sa Western Visayas; una sa utak, at ngayon, sa puso.
Dalawang patunay na ang rehiyon ay hindi na kailangang tingnan bilang alternatibo sa pambansang antas ng serbisyong medikal.
Ito ay isa nang pangunahing haligi ng makabagong pangangalagang pangkalusugan.
Ang pagkakaroon ng mga teknolohiyang tulad ng IVL at IVUS sa rehiyon ay nagdadala ng konkretong benepisyo: mas mabilis ang paggaling, mas kaunti ang komplikasyon, at mas malapit sa mga tahanan ang lunas na dati ay kailangang hanapin sa malalayong lungsod.
Hindi lamang ito kwento ng isang pasyente, kundi kwento ng isang rehiyon na patuloy na tumitibok sa harap ng hamon.
Ang Western Visayas ay patuloy na humahakbang, hindi palayo, kundi papalapit sa pangarap na dekalidad at abot-kayang gamutan para sa lahat.
Habang unti-unting naipupunla ang mga makabagong teknolohiya at kaalaman sa mga ospital sa rehiyon, kasabay rin nitong umuusbong ang panibagong mukha ng pag-asa, isang pag-asang may ngiti, may tibok, at may kinabukasan.
Leptospirosis Alert: Mga Dapat Malaman Para Maiwasan ang Sakit
Kasabay ng malamig na hangin at tila walang-katapusang ulan, may banta na hindi agad nakikita ng mata, tahimik, mabilis kumalat, at maaaring maging sanhi ng matinding karamdaman.
Sa bawat paglusong sa baha, maaaring kasabay nito ang panganib na dulot ng ”leptospirosis”, isang sakit na hindi palaging nabibigyan ng pansin ngunit patuloy na kumakalat sa maruruming tubig sa paligid.
Habang marami ang nag-aakalang simpleng lagnat lamang ang sintomas ng leptospirosis, may mga pagkakataong lumalala ito at humahantong sa seryosong komplikasyon o kamatayan.
Sa mga bayan sa Iloilo na madalas tamaan ng pagbaha, ang sakit na ito ay hindi na banyaga sa maraming residente.
𝗟𝗮𝗯𝗶𝘀, Provincial Health Officer I ng Iloilo, ibinahagi niya ang datos mula Enero hanggang Hulyo 19, 2025, kung saan umabot na sa 73 kaso ng leptospirosis ang naitala sa lalawigan, kabilang ang isang nasawi.
Ayon sa kanya, ang mga kaso ay nagmula sa 28 bayan, na may pinakamaraming kaso sa Janiuay at Oton (5 kaso bawat isa), habang tig-apat naman ang naitala sa Alimodian, Badiangan, Dumangas, Lambunao, Leon, at Pototan.
Labis na ang leptospirosis ay sanhi ng ‘Leptospira bacteria’, na kadalasang makikita sa ihi ng mga hayop tulad ng daga.
Kapag nahaluan ng baha ang ihi ng mga ito, nagiging daan ito ng impeksyon lalo na kung may sugat o galos ang balat ng tao, o kung ito’y lumusong sa baha nang walang proteksyon.
Ang mga karaniwang palatandaan ay lagnat, pananakit ng katawan (lalo na ng kalamnan), paninilaw ng mata, pananakit ng ulo, pagsusuka, at pamumula ng mata.
Kapag lumala, maaaring maapektuhan ang atay, bato, at maging ang puso.
Labis ang mga hakbang mula sa Department of Health (DOH) upang makaiwas sa sakit:
Labis, mas apektado rin ang mga matatanda, bata, at mga may mahinang resistensya, kaya’t mahalagang mapanatili ang kalinisan at pag-iingat tuwing may pagbaha.
Sa panahong tila normal na ang baha tuwing tag-ulan, mahalagang hindi rin maging normal ang pagiging kampante.
Ang simpleng pag-iwas sa baha, paggamit ng proteksyon sa katawan, at tamang kaalaman sa mga sintomas ng leptospirosis ay makapagliligtas ng buhay.
Sa dulo, hindi ulan o baha ang dapat katakutan, kundi ang mga sakit na dala nito kapag tayo’y naging pabaya.
Ginklaro niya nga ang nasambit nga programa yara pa sa proseso sang pagpirma sang memorandum of agreement ukon MOA sa tunga sang Iloilo Provincial Government kag Department of Health–Western Visayas Center for Health Development (DOH-WV CHD).
Masobra 15,000 ka evacuees, nahatagan na sang bulong kontra leptospirosis — CHO
Masobra 15,000 ka evacuees sa syudad ang nahatagan na sang prophylaxis ukon bulong kontra leptospirosis, suno sa City Health Office.
Mary Ann Diaz, hepe sang CHO, ginpahayag sini nga kada may pagbaha kag sa panahon sang ulan, awtomatiko nga nagahatag sila sang doxycycline prophylaxis sa mga residente nga na-expose sa tubig baha.
Diaz nga may mga medical team man nga ginapahamtang sa mga evacuation center para mag-assess sang kondisyon sang evacuees, maghatag sang konsultasyon kag bulong nga kinahanglan.
Ginahimo man ini sa mga kabarangayan paagi sa house-to-house medical outreach.
Ginpanugyan man sang City Health Office sa publiko nga mag-inom sang prophylaxis kung nakaubog sa baha agud malikawan ang balatian nga leptospirosis.
Gising at Lumalaban: Kauna-unahang ‘Awake Brain Surgery’ sa Panay, ibinahagi sa Doctor Bombo
Sa gitna ng malamig na operating room sa Iloilo City, sa ilalim ng matitingkad na puting ilaw at huni ng makinaryang panmedikal, isang pasyente ang nakahiga, gising, hindi nakakakilos, ngunit mulat sa bawat segundo ng kanyang pakikipaglaban.
Bukas ang kanyang bungo, tanaw ang maselang bahagi ng utak, habang ang kanyang tinig ay naririnig pa rin, sumasagot sa mga tanong, sumusunod sa utos, at nagpapakita ng lakas ng loob na bihira sa ganitong sandali.
Sa paligid niya, tahimik ngunit alerto ang mga kamay ng mga espesyalista.
Ito ang makasaysayang tagpo sa likod ng kauna-unahang ‘awake craniotomy’ na isinagawa sa Panay Island, isang operasyong hindi lang isinagawa sa utak, kundi pinanday ng tapang at tiwala.
Ang procedure ay isinagawa sa Western Visayas Medical Center (WVMC) sa pangunguna ni Dr.
Jabines, isang neurosurgeon at spine surgeon na nagsanay sa General Surgery at patuloy na hinasa sa larangan ng Neurosurgery sa ilalim ng Southern Philippines Integrated Neurosurgical Training Program, isang consortium ng Davao Doctors Hospital at WVMC.
Sa ekslusibong panayam ng Bombo Radyo sa programang ”Doctor Bombo”, ikinuwento ni Dr.
Jabines ang anim na oras na operasyon sa isang pasyente na may tumor sa tinatawag na eloquent areas ng utak, mga bahaging may kinalaman sa pagsasalita at paggalaw.
Dahil sa kritikal na lokasyon ng tumor, hindi naging opsyon ang karaniwang general anesthesia.
Sa halip, pinili ng team ang isang mas masalimuot na ruta: awake craniotomy, kung saan nananatiling gising at kausap ang pasyente sa mahahalagang yugto ng operasyon.
James Mercado, kapwa neurosurgeon mula sa Davao Doctors Hospital, ay katuwang niya sa operasyon.
Pinanatiling ligtas at kalmado ang pasyente sa tulong ni Dr.
Paul Christian Sobrevega, isang neuropsychiatrist, ang nagsagawa ng intraoperative testing upang masigurong ligtas at aktibo ang mahahalagang brain functions habang tinatanggal ang tumor.
Jabines, isinailalim sa masusing mental at physical preparation ang pasyente bago ang operasyon.
Hindi biro ang pagharap sa scalpel nang gising, ngunit sa dedikasyon ng team at tapang ng pasyente, matagumpay nilang naabot ang layunin: ang pagtanggal ng tumor habang pinapanatiling buo ang kanyang kakayahang magsalita, gumalaw, at mabuhay nang normal.
Ang tagumpay na ito ay patunay na hindi na kailangang lumuwas ng Maynila o lumipad paabroad para makamit ang highly specialized brain surgery.
Sa puso ng Panay, may mga kamay na bihasa, may sistemang handa, at higit sa lahat, may tapang at tiwalang kayang humawak sa mga buhay sa oras ng panganib.
Sa bawat hakbang ng operasyon, hindi lang teknolohiya ang umiral, kundi ang koneksyon sa pagitan ng doktor at pasyente, ang tiwala sa proseso, at ang lakas ng loob sa gitna ng katahimikan.
Sa wakas, napatunayan: kahit gising sa gitna ng operasyon, kayang isalba ang buhay, at ang pag-asa.
UV rays at skin cancer: mga dapat mong malaman ayon sa eksperto
Nagbabala ang isang dermatologist na maaaring magdulot ng sunburn at skin cancer ang labis na pagbabad sa araw, lalo na sa gitna ng matinding init.
Henedina “Dina” Belicena, mahalagang alagaan ang balat hindi lang para sa kagandahan kundi para sa kalusugan.
Belicena, isang dermatologist at miyembro ng Public Safety group ng Philippine Dermatological Society, binigyang-diin niya ang kahalagahan ng edukasyon sa publiko hinggil sa “skin health.” Aniya, hindi lamang ito tungkol sa pagpapaganda kundi sa wastong pagprotekta sa balat laban sa mga sakit mula sa kapaligiran, partikular ang sikat ng araw.
Ipinaliwanag niya na may tatlong pangunahing uri ng ultraviolet (UV) rays mula sa araw: ang UVA, na tumatagos sa balat at nagpapabilis ng pagtanda; UVB, na nagdudulot ng sunburn; at UVC, ang pinaka-mapanganib at maaaring magdulot ng skin cancer.
Belicena ang mga kondisyon tulad ng melasma, na lumalala sa sobrang init at paggamit ng ilang cosmetics na nagpapasensitibo sa balat.
Pinakaapektado, aniya, ang mga may light complexion, may family history ng cancer, at yaong madalas na na-e-expose sa araw, bagamat may mga kaso rin sa morena o dark-skinned individuals.
Dagdag niya, may dalawang pangunahing uri ng skin cancer: Basal Cell Carcinoma at Melanoma.
Bagamat may genetic factors, malaki ang epekto ng environmental exposure, kabilang na ang maling paggamit ng produkto.
Belicena laban sa paggamit ng mga unregistered whitening products na may delikadong sangkap gaya ng mercury, na maaaring magdulot ng kondisyong tinatawag na ochronosis.
Aniya, dapat iwasan ang self-medication at palaging suriin ang label ng mga produktong ginagamit.
Bilang proteksyon, inirerekomenda niya ang paggamit ng sunblock o sunscreen na may SPF at “clean form” na active ingredients.
Ayon sa kanya, sapat na ang 15 minutong sun exposure kada araw para sa Vitamin D, ngunit dapat iwasan ang araw mula 10:00 AM hanggang 3:00 PM.
Paalala pa niya, may ilang sangkap sa sunscreen tulad ng oxybenzone at octinoxate na maaaring makasira ng coral reefs, kaya’t mahalagang suriin ang nilalaman at pinanggalingan ng bawat produktong ginagamit.
Belicena, ang balat ay hindi lamang panlabas na anyo kundi pananggalang ng ating kalusugan , kaya’t ito ay nararapat pangalagaan.
Sobra nga pagka-wakalan,may negatibo nga epekto sa posture
Nahibaluan niyo bala nga ang pagkawakalan ninyo ang ang may yara sang negatibo nga epekto sa imo ikaayong lawas?
Santu sa pagtuon nga ginpangunahan ni Dr.
Artour Rakhimov, napamatud-an nga ang wala untat nga paghambal ang mahimo nga magdulot sang dizziness ukon paglingin sang ulo , light-headache ukon pagsakit sang ulo, pagkadula sang konsentrasyon, emotional instability, muscular tension, kag abnormal posture.
Suno kay Dr Rakhimov ang 10 tubtob 20 minutos nga pagwakal ang nagapabag-o sang pattern sang pagginhawa nga kabangdanan sang pagnubo sang arterial and brain CO2 levels nga ginatunaan sang hyperventilation ukon madasig nga pagginhawa nga indi kasubong sang normal, tissue hypoxia ukon pagkadula sang oxygen sa nagkalain-lain nga mga tissues sa lawas kag chronic diseases.
May kaangtanan diri, nagpanugyan ang doktor nga buhin-buhinan ang oras sang pagwakal bangud nga kasubong sang iban nga mga butang ang sobra ang ginakabig nga delikado.
‘Gamay Pero Manamit’: Sarisa ukon kerson fruit, nagabulig sa pagpanami sang ‘mood’
Madamo sang butang nga magagmay pero manamit.
Kaangay sang prutas nga sarisa ukon aratiles ukon Kerson Fruit sa English.
Paul Haider,isa ka Spiritual Teacher kag Master Herbalist, ang sarisa makabulig sa pagpanubo sang blood sugar, nagabulig sa paglikaw sa cancer, naga promote sang cardiovascular health, nagapanubo man sang blood pressure, kag naga-block sang pain sa lawas.
Ang sarisa naga- contain sang fiber, water, carbs, protein para sa strong muscles, calcium kag phosphorus para sa strong bones, iron para sa anemia, kag B-Vitamins para sa vitality kag manami nga modo.
Ang sarisa naga- contain man sang bastante nga amount sang Vitamin C, isa ka potent antioxidant nga nagabulig sa pagbato sa trangkaso.
Magluwas sa prutas, ang dahon sini ang pwede mahimo nga tsaa kag makabulig sa pagpanubo sang blood pressure bangud naga-contain ini sang nitric oxide nga nagapakalma sang blood vessels gani nagaimprove ang imo blood flow.
Ano pa ang ginahulat mo, magkaon ka na sang sarisa!
010 para sa reconstitution sang ICAST: kampanya batuk sa pagpanigarilyo, ginpabakod
010, Series of 2025, ginpabakod ni Mayor Raisa S.
Treñas ang kampanya batuk sa pagpanigarilyo kag paggamit sang ‘vape’ sa syudad pinaagi sa pagreconstitute sang Iloilo City Anti-Smoking Task Force (ICAST) kag pagdeputize sang mga enforcers sini.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay ICAST Director Iñigo Garingalao, iya ginpahayag nga positibo kag angay gid sa tiun ang mando ukon adbokasiya ni Mayor Raisa, nga nagapakita sang matuod-tuod nga pagtutok sini sa ikaayong-lawas sang mga Ilonggo.
Ginpahayag man ni Garingalao nga ang pag-issue sang EO naga-‘underline’ gid sang seryoso nga tinutuyo sang alkalde nga padayon nga panindugan ang kampanya batuk sa passive smoking, ilabi na para sa kabataan kag vulnerable nga sektor.
Ginklaro man sang EO ang awtoridad sang ICAST agents nga magadakop kag maga issue sila sang citation tickets sa mga magalapas, kag ginapanawagan ni Mayor Raisa ang bug-os nga kooperasyon sang publiko para sa isa ka mas himsog kag ‘smoke-free’ nga Iloilo City.
Pagtaas sang ‘Family Planning users’ sang mga kababainhan sa Iloilo, nagaresulta sa pagnubo sang live births
Nagapadayon ang pagtaas sang paggamit sang family planning sa mga kababainhan sa probinsya sang Iloilo base sa datos nga ginpahayag sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Dr.
Suno sa iya, isa sa mga rason kun ngaa indi malab-ot sang probinsya ang target nga fully immunized child coverage amo ang pagnubo sang kabataan nga ginatawo, bangud man sang pagtaas sang contraceptive prevalence rate.
Halin 2020 tubtob 2024, nagapakita ang datos nga padayon ang pagsanyog sang mga kababainhan nga nagapraktis sang family planning.
Ginklaro ni Quiñon nga ang national target para sa contraceptive prevalence rate amo ang 30%, apang nalab-ot na sang probinsya ang 36.85% ukon kapin 185,000 nga mga kababainhan ang naga-praktis sang family planning.
Sang tuig 2024, masobra 19,500 na lang ang total nga live births, mas manubo kumparar sa mga nagligad nga tuig.
Ginpahayag nga damo na sang mga kababainhan sa probinsya ang aktibo nga naga-engage sa programa sang family planning, kabahin serbisyong-medikal nga programa sang gobyerno.
Dalawa ang nasawi habang apat pa ang isinugod sa ospital matapos malason sa pagkain ng isdang butete sa bayan ng Olutanga, ayon sa ulat ng pulisya nitong Sabado.
Kinilala ang mga nasawing biktima na sina Mary Joy Gumata at Repsine Galliner, parehong 15 taong gulang.
Kasalukuyan namang nilalapatan ng lunas sa pagamutan ang apat na iba pa: sina Jerome Gumata, 44; Joash, 13; at dalawa pang biktima na kinilala lamang sa pangalang Chrisel at Edmundo.
Batay sa imbestigasyon ng Zamboanga Sibugay Police, nahuli ni Galliner ang isang malaking isdang butete na dinala niya sa pamilya Gumata upang iluto at pagsaluhan.
Ngunit makalipas lamang ang ilang minuto matapos kainin ang isda, nagsimula nang makaranas ng pananakit ng tiyan, matinding pagkahilo, pamamanhid ng katawan, pagsusuka, at matinding diarrhea ang mga biktima.
Ayon kay Eduardo Gumata, ama ng ilan sa mga batang biktima, nadatnan niya ang mga ito na namimilipit sa sakit kaya agad silang isinugod sa pagamutan.
Idineklarang dead-on-arrival sina Galliner at Mary Joy, habang inilipat sa ibang ospital ang apat pang nalason.
Ayon sa mga eksperto, ang butete ay naglalaman ng tetrodotoxin, isang matinding neurotoxin na lubhang mapanganib at nakamamatay sa tao kahit sa maliit na dami lamang kung mali ang preparasyon o pagluluto.
Patuloy ang paalala ng mga awtoridad sa publiko na iwasan ang pagkain ng mga delikadong uri ng isda tulad ng butete, lalo na kung walang sapat na kaalaman sa tamang pagproseso nito.
Cleft Lip kag Craniofacial Conditions, Ginatutukan sa Bulan sang Hulyo
Ginatutukan sa bulan sang Hulyo ang selebrasyon sang National Cleft Lip and Craniofacial Awareness Month bilang kabahin sang kampanya sa pagpasangkad sang kaalam parte sa cleft lip kag cleft palate, mga kondisyon nga ginakabig congenital nga may deperensya sa baba kag ngala-ngala.
Gabriel Tecson, isa ka espesyalista sa ENT – Head and Neck Surgery, ginpahayag nga ang cleft lip kag cleft palate isa ka congenital nga balatian.
Nagakatabo ini samtang ginabusong pa ang bata, kung sa diin indi nagaporma sang husto ang mga istruktura sang nawong, labi na ang bibig kag ngala-ngala.
Ang cleft lip nagaresulta sang gisi sa tuo o wala nga bahin sang bibig, kag may mga kaso man nga duha ka bahin ang apektado.
Samtang ang cleft palate naman amo ang buho sa ngala-ngala, nga nagahatag sang kabudlay sa pagkaon, paghambal, kag makadala sang komplikasyon kun indi dayon maoperahan.
Sa Pilipinas, may yara sang pilakalibo ka kaso kada tuig, ilabi na sa mga lugar nga kulang sa serbisyo medikal antes magbata ang mga iloy.
May yara sang epektibo nga mga pamaagi para masolusyunan ang cleft lip kag cleft palate kag ginahimo ang operasyon sa cleft lip sang bata nagaedad 3 tubtob 6 ka bulan.
Ang operasyon para sa cleft palate ginahimo antes pa magsugod ang kabataan sa paghambal sang mga tinaga, sa edad nga 9 tubtob 18 ka bulan.
Ginapangunahan sang mga eksperto nga naga-upod ang mga espesyalista sa Ear, Nose, and Throat (ENT) specialist, plastic surgery, pediatrics, dentistry, kag speech therapy ang pag-atipan sa mga pasyente nga may cleft condition.
Ang selebrasyon sang National Cleft Lip and Craniofacial Awareness Month nagapadayon nga isa ka importante nga panawagan sa publiko agud maghatag suporta, magbulig sa pagpalapnag sang kasayuran, kag magpakita sang paghangop sa mga kabataan kag pamilya nga nagaatubang sang amo nga kondisyon.
Kaso sang dengue sa Iloilo, naglab-ot na 1,959 halin Enero 1 tubtob Mayo 31, 2025
Naglab-ot na sa 1,959 ang kaso sang dengue sa Iloilo halin Enero 1 tubtob Mayo 31, 2025.
Rodney Labis, Chief sang Health Service Delivery Division sang Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga ang numero ang mataas sang 78% kumparar sa kapareho nga period sang 2024 nga may 1,102 ka kaso.
Suno kay Labis, pinakamadamo nga kaso ang narekord sa San Joaquin (151), ginsundan sang Oton (115), Leon (99), Cabatuan (95), kag Dumangas (91).
Dugang sini nga siyam na ang napatay bangud sang dengue, lakip ang tig-duha sa Pototan kag Carles, kag tig-isa sa Oton, Sara, Tigbauan, Dueñas, kag Balasan.
Kadam-an sa mga biktima ang naga-edad 1 tubtob 9 ka tuig.
ang Provincial Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (PRRMC) nga palig-onon ang kampanya kontra dengue bangud nagasugod na ang tig-ululan.
DOH, nakarekord sang 6,703 ka kaso sang HIV halin Enero tubtob Abril 2025
Nagapanikasog na ang Department of Health (DOH) matapos nga naka-record sang 6,703 ka kaso sang Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) halin Enero tubtob Abril 2025.
Ini nagaangut sang average nga 56 ka bag-o nga kaso kada adlaw sa una nga apat ka bulan sang tuig — 44% ini nga mas mataas kumpara sa amo man nga panahon sang 2024.
Ang kadam-an sa mga bag-o nga kaso amo ang mga pumuluyo nga naga-edad 15 tubtob 25 anyos, nga may 500% nga pagtaas.
Lakip man sa mga na-diagnose ang isa ka 12-anyos nga kabataan halin Palawan, nga naimpeksyon bangud sang pakighilawas.
Suno kay Health Secretary Teodoro Herbosa, ang Pilipinas subong may pinakamadamo nga bag-o nga kaso sang HIV sa Western Pacific region.
Gani, ginpanawagan sang DOH kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga magdeklara sang national public health emergency batok sa HIV.
Ang proposal halin sa Philippine National AIDS Council, nga amo ang ahensya nga naga-atipan sang pagpugong kag kontrol sang HIV kag AIDS sa pungsod.
Suno kay Herbosa, dapat tani nga may pagtipon ang gabinete parte sini, apang masami napostpone tungod sang iban pa nga isyu.
Bisan pa sini, nagapadayon ang DOH sa pagpreparar sang programa sa sulod sang anum ka bulan agud masabat ang padayon nga pagsaka sang kaso sang HIV.
Sa kabug-usan, may 150,433 ka tawo nga nagakabuhi upod sa HIV (PLHIV) sa Pilipinas sang Abril 2025.
Ang kadam-an sang PLHIV subong yara sa mas bata nga age group — 50% naga-edad 25 tubtob 34 anyos.
Sang 2002 tubtob 2005, ang 44% sang PLHIV yara sa 35-49 anyos nga age group.
Gintumod ni Herbosa ang pagdamo sang “risky behavior” pareho sang pakighilawas sa indi kilala nga tawo, indi protektado nga pakighilawas, kag ang epekto sang dating apps kag madali nga pag-access sang pornograpiya — nga nagadugang sa paglapta sang virus.
Suno sa DOH, sexual transmission gihapon ang nagapanguna nga rason sang paglapta sang virus.
Mga 83% sang mga kaso halin 1984 amo ang mga lalaki nga may pakighilawas sa kapareho nga lalaki.
Kalabanan sa mga Filipino ang nagabutang gid sang bombay sa ila nga mga linuto.
Magluwas nga nagapanamit ini sang sabor, madamo ini sang health benefits ilabi na kun ini ang kaunon nga hilaw.
Una, ang pagkaon sang hilaw nga bombay ang makapa-improve sang heart health bangud may ara ini sang flavonoids kag thiosulfinates nga maka-reduce sang bad cholesterol sa imo nga lawas kag maka-likaw sa heart attack.
Ikaduha, makapabaskog man ini sang tul-an bangud ang bombay ang may ara sang calcium.
Ikatatlo, makapa-improve sang sexual health, bangud makabulig ini sa pag-increase sang testosterone level sang lalaki.
Ikaapat, makapasanag man ini sang imo panulukan bangud manggaranon ini sa vitamin e.
Gani mga ka-bombo, ano pa ang ginahulat niyo, magpadulong na sa inyo kusina kag ilakip ang bombay sa inyo pamahaw.
Pagtulog nga wala sang panty, makabulig sa pagpaniwang
May yara bala sang malain ukon maayo nga dulot ang indi pagsuksok sang underwear sa mga babaye sa pagtulog?
May mga estilo sang pagtulog ang mga babaye — una diri amo mga nagasuksok sang pajama kag ang ika-duha naman amo ang mga wala nagasuksok sang underwear.
Suno kay Nancy Herta, M.D OB-GYN sa Michigan State University, mas maayo nga indi magsuksok sang underwear ang mga babaye agud malikawan ang mga vaginal issues.
Ang vagina ang madasig nga tapikan sang moisture kag ini nagakabalabagan sang underwear nga nangin rason sang pagdamo sang mga bad bacteria sa lawas nga nagatuga sang balatian.
Gani nagabulig ang indi pagsuksok sang underwear agud nga makahatag sang ligwa nga makasulod ang hangin nga nagapamala kag nagapatinlo sa pribado nga parte sang lawas sang mga babaye.
Ginpaboran naman ini ni Pari Ghodsi, isa ka board certified OB-GYN sa diin kun masami naga-eksperyensya sang yeast infection, makabulig gid ang indi pagsuksok sang underwear kun magtulog.
Sa isa naman ka separado nga pagtuon, ang pagtulog nga wala sang underwear ang makabulig sa pagbuhin sang bug-at.
Ang pagpabilin nga nagakatugnawan ang imo lawas nga nagabulig sa pag-boost sang imo nga calorie-burning abilities.
Apang kun luyag mo gid magsuksok sang underwear, siguraduhon nga loose cotton pajama ang imo nga suksok.
Panugyan ni Ghodsi sa mga wala naanad nga wala sang suksok nga underwear, pilion ang loose-fitting cotton underwear bangud nagabulig ini sa pagsuyop sang moisture agud nga indi magtipon.
Ang silk kag lace nga mga underwear ang mahimo nga makairita pa sa imo nga panit kag sa vagina.
Rason sang indi pag-disclose sang impormasyon sang positibo sa mpox, gin-athag ni Mayor Treñas
Ginpaathag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas kung ngaa indi pwede i-disclose ukon isa-publiko ang mga impormasyon sang mga nagpositibo sa Monkey pox (Mpox).
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga may mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag ang Department of Health (DOH) sa ila, gani ginakinahanglan ini nga sundon.
Mary Ann Diaz, head sang Iloilo City Health Office, ini man agud malikawan ang diskriminasyon nga matabo sa mga pasyente inkaso mabuyagyag ang ila mga pangalan.
Nagpasalig man si Treñas nga istrikto nga gina-monitor ang mga nagpositibo kag amo man ang tagsa ka mga barangay health workers sa siyudad.
Nakahanda man ang mga katapo sang City Social Welfare Development Office (CSWDO) agud maghatag sang assistance sa mga apektado sang Mpox.
Nahibaluan man nga 4 na ang kumpirmado kag may duha ka mga suspected nga kaso sang Mpox sa siyudad.
Common nga problema sa mata, ginbuyagyag sang isa ka public health expert
Ginpatpat sang isa ka public health expert ang pinaka-common nga problema sa mata nga nagaapekto sa bilyon-bilyon ka tawo sa bug-os nga kalibutan.
Irene Mirasol Peliño, Optometrist, iya ginpahayag nga tatlo sa mga pinaka-common amo ang Astigmatism, Hyperopia, kag Myopia.
Ini nga mga kondisyon ginatawag nga refractive errors, kun sa diin indi insakto ang pagtutok sang kasanag sa retina sang mata, nga nagaresulta sang blurred ukon distorted vision.
Suno kay Peliño, ang tatlo ka mga balatian sa mata amo ang ginatawag nga Myopia ukon nearsightedness, amo ang kondisyon nga indi klaro ang mga bagay nga malayo, samtang sinew naman kon malapit sa panulukan.
Nagakatabo ini kun ang eyeball ang sobra ang kalabaon ukon sobra ang kurba sang cornea, gani ang kasanag naga-focus sa atubang sang retina.
Ginarekomendar sang mga eksperto nga magpa-eye check-up kada isa ukon duha ka tuig, labi na sa mga kabataan, tigulang, ukon may simtoma sang kabudlayan sa panulukan.
Santo sa World Health Organization (WHO), masobra 30% sang populasyon sang kalibutan ang apektado sang myopia.
Nagataas pagid ini nga numero, labi na sa mga kabataan tungod sang sobra nga gamit sang gadgets.
Confirmed case nga kaso sang Mpox sa Iloilo, nag-ayo na – IPHO
Nag-ayo na ang kumpirmado nga kaso sang mpox sa probinsya sang Iloilo halin pa sang Mayo 23, suno sa Iloilo Provincial Health Office (IPHO).
Ginkumpirmar ini sang IPHO matapos ang 21 ka adlaw nga isolation kag wala na sang mga lesions.
Lima ka close contacts sang pasyente ang wala nagpakita sang sintomas sang mpox kag yara subong sa home quarantine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay IPHO Head Dr.
Maria Colmenares-Quiñon, Head sang Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga ginkumpirmar sang Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM) ang positibo nga kaso matapos mapasa ang tatlo ka specimen para sa testing.
Duha sa mga sample ang nagnegatibo, samtang isa ang kumpirmado nga positibo.
Ang pasyente, nga wala sang travel history, subong yara sa home isolation kag padayon nga nagapahuway.
Suno kay Quiñon, siyam ka close contacts sang pasyente ang nakilala na kag ginbutang man sa isolation, kag wala pa sang ginapakita nga sintomas tubtob subong.
Antes sini, una nga ginpahayag man sang Iloilo City Health Office nga may isa man nga kumpirmado nga kaso sang mpox kag apat ka suspected cases nga ginabantayan subong.
Quiñon sa publiko nga magpabilin nga kalmado apang magpabilin nga alerto, kag sundon gid ang tanan nga public health advisories.
Health expert, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga ipabilin ang healthy lifestyle agud nga malikawan ang hypertension
Nagpanugyan ang public health expert sa publiko nga ipabilin ang healthy lifestyle agud nga malikawan ang makaangkon sang hypertension ukon high blood pressure.
Nagalakip ini sang pagkaon sang balance diet nga manubo sa asin kag saturated fats.
Ang regular nga pisikal nga aktibidad makabulig man sa pag-maintain sang imo presyon sang dugo.
Suno kay Padilla, ang paglikaw sa sobra nga pag-inom sang alkohol kag pag-untat sa pagpanigarilyo amo man ang mga yabi nga tikang.
Dugang pa, ang pagdumala sang stress kag pag-maintain sang isa ka healthy nga kabug-aton ang makapanubo sang risgo nga mag-angkon sang high blood.
Nagpangabay man ini sa publiko nga regular nga magpa-checkup sa isa ka healthcare provider agud nga mabantayan ang blood pressure kag pag-angkon sang bisan ano nga mga problema sa ikaayong-lawas.
Hospital Management Office sang Iloilo, ginpa-athag ang referral system sa mga District Hospital
Ginpaathag sang Hospital Management Office sang Iloilo Province ang importansya sang referral system sa mga District Hospital.
Paz Calopiz, Hospital Management Officer, iya ginpahayag nga kon ma-abot sa ospital ang pasyente, dapat nga batunon ini bisan ano pa nga sahi sang iya emergency case.
Suno kay Calopiz, insigida man mismo nga dapat mahibaluan sang doctor kon bala ang pasyente kinahanglan nga ma-admit ukon indi, mahimo i-refer sa higher facility, ukon papulion.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kon matumod nga kinahanglan nga i-refer ang pasyente, dapat siguraduhon nga madul-ong ini sang ambulansya.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga kon indi available ang ambulansya, mahimo nga magpangayo sang bulig sa kaingod nga mga banwa.
Ginklaro man ni Calopiz nga indi insigida nga maka-transfer ang isa ka doctor halin sa public hospital kon ini ang wala pa nakapakig-angot kag mabaton sang receiving hospital.
Bata, napatay matapos nagpa-circumcise sa clinic
Ginbawian sang kabuhi ang isa ka 10-anyos nga bata matapos nga nagpa-paltak sa isa ka nagpakilala nag doktor sa isa ka lying-in clinic sa Tondo, Manila.
Suno sa iloy sang bata nga si Marjorie San Agustin, mabaskog ang bata niya nga si Nathan sang gindala niya sa clinic para ma-circumcise.
Pahayag ni Marjorie, gintublukan man sang anesthesia nga 20cc ang iya nga bata santo sa pahayag sang isa ka staff.
Ginpamangkot pa ni Marjorie ang bata kun ano ang pamatyagan kag nagsabat ang bata nga wala na ini sang nabatyagan.
Apang matapos ang proseso, naobserbahan ni Marjorie nga nagakurog na ang bata.
Gindala sa ospital ang bata apang wala na natabangan pa.
Ginaimbestigaran na sang Manila Police District kag National Bureau of Investigation ang insidente.
SB Member Jofe Celeste, nagpanawagan kay Gov.
nga hatagan solusyon ang referral sang mga pasyente nga nagahalin sa probinsya
Ginpalab-ot ni Bingawan, Iloilo Sangguniang Bayan Member Jofe Celeste ang iya personal experience sa pag-refer sang mga pasyente nga nagahalin sa district hospital sa probinsya sang Iloilo padulong sa Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay SB Celeste, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ka dako nga pagpanghangkat para sa mga pasyente kon indi makahatag sang salakyan ukon ambulansya ang isa ka hospital.
Suno kay Celeste, kapareho ini sa natabo sa iya nga bata nga may special needs sang Mayo 14, 2025 kon sa diin, nangluya ini kag kinahanglan sang gilayon nga pagbulong.
Gintuad sang opisyal nga nagpakig-angot sila sa ila banwa agud nga makapangayo sang Patient Transport Vehicle (PTV) kag madul-ong ang iya nga bata, apang nagpahayag ang Local Government Unit (LGU) sang Bingawan nga tubtob sa District Hospital sang Calinog lang sila.
Ginbuyagyag man sini nga kon luyag nila nga madul-ong sa syudad ang pasyente, magamit na lang sang pribado nga salakyan.
Nagapanghakroy man ini bangud wala sang kagamitan sa ambulansya para sa pasyente agud ma-sustain kontani ang kahimtangan sini tubtob makalab-ot sa ospital sa syudad.
Nagapati man ini nga ang nagakatabo sa pila ka banwa amo ang kinahanglan nga i-admit anay ang bata sa hospital agud nga makakuha sang bastante nga ambulansya para sa pasyente.
Gin-athag sini nga tinutuyo lamang niya nga mapanami ang referral system sang probinsya ilabi na kon emergency cases.
Nagpanawagan man ini kay Iloilo Governor Defensor Jr.
nga mahatagan sang igtalupangod ang amo nga issue agud nga indi na masulit pa kag makatuga sang huol sa mga nagamasakit.
Kaso sang hand, foot, and mouth disease sa Iloilo, yara na 534
Rodney Labis, Provincial Health Officer, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga numero ang mas mataas sang 100% kon ikumpara sa kaparehas nga time period sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno kay Labis, nakit-an ang matag-as nga kaso sa mga banwa sang Carles, Concepcion, Barotac Nuevo, Sta.
Gin-athag man sini nga kalabanan sa kaso amo ang naga-edad lima ka tuig manubo bangud man sa amo nga edad, naga-develop pa lang ang isa ka bata sang immunity batok sa mga virus.
Nagpanugyan man ang natungdan sa mga ginikanan nga i-monitor gid ang kondisyon sang bata kun makataan sang sintomas kaangay sang hilanat, rashes, kag mouth lesions.
Kun may makit-an nga senyales, dapat gid nga mag-isolate agud nga indi na maglaton sa iban.
Gina-abisuhan man ang tanan nga masami gid maghugas sang kamot kag maggamit sang alcohol-based sanitizers.
Nahibaluan nga ang iban pa nga sintomas sini nga kondisyon amo ang pagkadula sang gana sa pagkaon, pagsakit sang tutunlan, kag pagpalangapoy.
Dermatologist, nagpaandam batok sa kondisyon sa panit nga masami makuha sang mga lapsag kun summer
Nagpaandam ang isa ka dermatologist batok sa mga balatian ukon kondisyon sa panit nga mahimo makuha gikan sa tuman nga exposure sa init sang adlaw.
Haider Reyes, iya ginpahayag nga isa sa pinaka-komon diri amo ang bungang- balhas ukon prickly heat.
Reyes, kalabanan nga ginatubuan sini amo ang mga lapsag.
Paathag sang doctor, ang balhas ang nagabyahe paagi sa gagmay nga sweat ducts nga ginadala ini sa ibabaw sang panit kag kun ang mga duct ang mangin barado bangud sa tuman nga balhas, ini ang magatinir sa idalom sang panit nga magaresulta sa pagtuhaw sang itchy red bumps.
Ini ang mahimo maglutaw sa bisan diin nga parte sang lawas apang masami ini nga makita sa mga lugar nga ginabalhasan kaangay sang ilok.
Pila sa mga remedyo diri amo ang pagbutang sang cold compress agud mabugnawan, indi ini pagkaluton kag likawan ang paggamit sang maisog nga skin products.
Mas maayo man nga magpakonsulta gilayon sa espesyalista sa panit agud gilayon nga mabulong.
Regular nga prenatal check-up, ginpangabay sang health expert agud malikawan ang preterm birth
Padayon nga ginabantayan sang mga public health expert sa Western Visayas ang kaso sang preterm birth ukon pagbata sang wala pa sa ti-on, isa ka isyu nga nagahatag kabudlayan sa madamo nga ginikanan kag mga healthcare providers.
Joseph Aldric Gaspar, Neonatologist kag Chairman sang Neonatal Care Center, iya ginpahayag nga masami nga nagakatabo ang preterm birth kon magbata ang isa ka nanay antes mag-abot ang ika-37 nga semana sang iya pagkabusong.
Ini nga kondisyon mahimo magresulta sa komplikasyon pareho sang budlay sa pagginhawa, pag-ubo, kag kabudlayan sa immune system sang bata.
Suno kay Gaspar, isa ini ka seryoso nga isyu nga kinahanglan tutukan kon sa diin, kalabanan sa mga bata nga premature ang ginadala sa Neonatal Intensive Care Unit agud maatipan sang maayo.
Ginpasiguro naman sang natungdan nga padayon ang ila programa sa maternal care kag prenatal education, agud malikawan ang mga kahimtangan nga mahimo magdala sang preterm labor, pareho sang high blood pressure, diabetes, kag infection.
Ginapangabay man sang talatapan ang kooperasyon sang komunidad kag mga ginikanan sa regular nga prenatal check-up kag husto nga pagkaon kag pagpahuway sang mga nagabusong.
Arikis: Paano malikawan, paano mabulong?
Ginpahanumdom sang isa ka doctor ang pagpabilin sang proper hygiene agud nga malikawan ang pag-angkon sang arikis kag paglaton sini sa iban nga mga tawo ilabi na sa mga kaupod sa balay.
Ang arikis ang ginadala sang Sarcoptes scabiei var hominis nga sarang makatinir sa lawas sang tawo sa malawig nga tion.
Rema Joy Cejar, Fellow sa Philippine Dermatological Society kag head sang Western Visayas Medical Center-Dermatology Section, iya ginpahayag nga nagalaton ang kagaw paagi sa close contact sa iban nga mga tawo.
Mahimo man ini maglaton kun naga-share sang ulunan, bedsheets, habol kag iban pa nga mga gamit sang infected nga tawo.
Ini ang rason suno kay Cejar nga dapat masami gid nga magpaninlo kun may infected person na sa panimalay, kag dapat man nga mag-isolate ukon indi na mag-impon sa iban nga mga tawo agud indi magsaylo ang kagaw.
Pahayag ni Cejar, indi madala ang arikis sa simple lang nga pagpanghabon, gani nga may lista sang recommended lotion ukon bulong nga ginahatag ang doctor agud mapatay ang kagaw kag mauntat ang pagpalangatol ilabi na kun gab-i.
Ginpanumdom man sang doctor nga likawan nga maggamit sang dagom ukon magsunog sa infected area sang lawas kun may arikis bangud mahimo ini magtuga sang lain na naman nga problema.
Dermatologist, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga himuon gid nga prayoridad ang paggamit sang sunscreen subong nga tag-ilinit
Nagpanugyan ang isa ka dermatologist sa publiko nga himuon gid nga prayoridad ang paghatag sang proteksyon sa panit subong nga tag-ilinit.
Grace Gallega-Perez, iya ginpahayag nga ini agud nga makalikaw sa mga balatian ukon kondisyon sa panit nga mahimo mangin resulta sang sobra nga exposure sa silak sang adlaw.
Ini nagalakip sang premature skin aging, skin cancer kag iban nga skin diseases.
Perez, isa ka simple nga pamaagi sa pagprotekta sa panit amo ang pagbutang sang sunscreen nga amo ang naga-filter ukon naga- screen sang UltraViolet rays sang adlaw.
Ang gamiton nga sunscreen ang dapat nga broad-spectrum protection, Water resistant, kag Sun Protection Factor ukon SPF 30 ukon mataas pa.
Pahayag sang dermatologist, ang sunscreen dapat gina-apply sa panit nga wala matabunan sang bayo sang 15 minutos antes maggwa sa balay, mag-apply kada duha ka oras matapos maligo ukon magpamalhas.
Mas mayo man nga mag-apply bisan tig-ululunan.
Pahiran man ang bibig sang lip balm nga may sunscreen.
Gin-athag man sang doctor nga safe ang tanan ng sunscreen bangud wala sang ano man nga harmful ingredients sa sunscreen nga mabakal subong sa merkado.
IPHO, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga likawan ang tuman nga exposure sa init
Liwat nga nagpanugyan ang Iloilo Provincial Health Office (IPHO) sa publiko nga likawan ang tuman nga exposure sa init.
Maria Socorro Quiñon, iya ginpahayag nga sa subong nga nagalab-ot sa 42-degree Celsius ang init, dako ang risgo nga mag-angkon sang heat related illness.
Suno kay Quiñon, mahimo maka-eksperyensya sang amo nga balatian bangod sa tuman ka paang nga tyempo, dehydration ukon kakulangan sang tubig, sobra-sobra nga exercise, kag madugay nga direct exposure sa adlaw.
Mataas naman ang risgo sa mga infants ukon mga lapsag, mga nagatrabaho sa initan, may high blood, kag diabetes.
Dugang sini nga mag-inom gid sang madamo nga tubig kag likawan ang pag-inom sang hot tea, kape, soft drinks, kag makahulubog nga ilimnon bangud ini ang nagadugang sang dehydration.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga magsuksok sang mga light colors nga panapton agud nga indi madali nga mainitan ang kalawasan.
Pila ka banwa sa Iloilo, wala sa gihapon nakapasa sang accomplishment report sa pagbakuna sa mga ido
Nagapabilin nga wala pa nakapasa sang accomplishment report sa Iloilo Provincial Veterinary Office ang pila ka mga banwa sa Iloilo may kaangtanan sa pagpangbakuna sa mga ido.
Ini amo ang banwa sang Igbaras, Leganes, Miag-ao, San Enrique, kag San Dionisio.
Darel Tabuada, Veterinarian sa Iloilo Provincial Veterinary Office, iya ginpahayag nga yara na 29.71% sang mga ido sa probinsya ang nabakunahan.
Sa nasambit nga porsyento, nakasaad diri nga sa kabug-usan nga 367,907 ka mga ido, yara sa 109,310 ang nabakunahan na.
Suno kay Tabuada, tubtob sa Abril 30, 2025 na lang ang mass dog vaccination sang Provincial Government.
Target man sang lokal nga panguluhan nga malab-ot ang 70% sang dog population sa probinsya ang mabakunahan.
Sa subong, ang mga banwa sang Banate, New Lucena, Cabatuan, Concepcion, kag Tubungan pa lang ang nakalab-ot sang 70-porsyento nga nabakunahan nga mga ido.
Dermatologist, Nagpahanumdom Kaangot sa Benign Skin Growths
Nagpahanumdom ang isa ka dermatologist sa publiko kaangot sa benign skin growths ukon mga bukol sa panit nga indi cancerous.
Cecilia Uy, fellow sang Philippine Dermatological Society, iya ginpahayag nga natural nga nagabag-o ang panit samtang nagatigulang kag nagaka-expose sa adlaw, balatian, trauma, kag iban pa nga environmental factors.
Suno kay Uy, ang benign skin growths amo ang discoloration ukon pigmentation disorders bangud sa pagbag-o sa normal nga function sang panit.
Gin-athag sini nga indi tanan nga benign skin growths ang nagakinahanglan sang pagbulong.
Apang nagakadapat sa gihapon nga magpakonsulta sa dermatologist, ilabi na kun nagaresulta ini sang physical discomfort ukon psychological distress.
Apisar kadam-an sa mga nunal ukon bukol sa panit ang indi delikado, nagpaandam ang doktor nga ang pila sa mga ini ang mahimo madagdag sa melanoma, isa ka delikado nga sahi sang skin cancer.
Ginapanugyan man sang natungdan nga agud malikawan ang anuman nga kahangawa, mas maayo nga magpadulong sa mga lisensyado nga dermatologist.
CHO, hatagan prayoridad ang mga barangay sa Iloilo City nga may report sang dengue
Hatagan sang pagtamod sang Iloilo City Health Office (CHO) ang mga barangay nga may reports sang kaso sang dengue sa Iloilo City.
Mary Ann Diaz head sang City Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga ang mga may kaso sang dengue ang patigayonan sang misting operations.
Suno kay Diaz, tinutuyo sang tikang nga mapahagan-hagan ang kaso sang dengue sa mga target nga mga barangay.
Target man sang talatapan nga hatagan sang prayoridad ang mga barangay nga yara sa malapit sa boarder sang probinsya sang Iloilo.
Nahibaluan nga santo sa data sang CHO, may 26 ka barangay ang may pinakamadamo nga kaso sang dengue sa Iloilo City.
Sa subong, yara sa 149 ang kaso sang dengue, kon sa diin, 112 ang kumpirmado, 37 ang na man probable kag 1 ang napatay.
Optical professional, nagpanugyan nga indi pagpabay-an ang mga sintomas sang katarata sa mata
Nagpanugyan ang isa ka optical professional nga indi pagpabay-an ang mga sintomas sang katarata sa mata agud indi madulaan sang panan-awan.
Nikki Ahley Papas, Chief Resident sang Department of Ophthalmology sa Western Visayas Medical Center (WVMC), iya ginpahayag nga ang katarata ang isa ka common nga concerns nga gina-eksperyensyahan sang kadam-an kon mata ang istoryahan.
Suno kay Papas, isa ang edad sa factor sang katarata bangud kon nagataas ang edad, nagadugang man ang ‘cloudy’ sa mata nga nagatuga sang blurred nga eyesight.
Isa naman sa mga sintomas nga mabatyagan amo ang amat-amat nga pagburon sang mata.
Gin-athag man sini nga indi konektado ang katarata sa masami pagsakit sang mata.
Mahimo nga mag-angkon sang amo nga balatian ang isa ka tawo kon may family history nga may katarata.
Gin-athag sang optical professional nga ang kalabanan nga nagatubo nga ‘bump’ sa mata ang isa ka timos-timos ukon hordeolum.
Mary Katherine Francia, Chairperson sang Department of Ophthalmology sa Western Visayas Medical Center (WVMC), iya ginpahayag nga may duha ka klase sang timos-timos, ini amo ang external kag internal.
Suno kay Francia, ang external hordeolum ang isa ka hapaw nga bump nga makit-an sa mata, samtang ang internal na man amo ang may mas madalom nga bump.
Gin-athag man sini nga ang external nga timos-timos ang yara lamang sa glands sang milok, rason nga kon magbunot sang strand sang sini, gilayon ini nga nagakupos.
Bangud man nga ang nana naga-agi sa ginbunotan sang milok rason nga nagaguwa ini gilayon.
Ginklaro man sang natungdan nga ang internal nga timos-timos ang indi magkupos bisan pa nga uboson gabot ang mga milok.
Ini bangud man sa madalom nga posisyon sini sa gland sang eyelashes.
Kaso sang measles ukon tipdas sa Iloilo, naglab-ot na sa tatlo
Naglab-ot na sa tatlo ka mga kaso sang measles ukon tipdas ang nabalhag sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office sa Iloilo.
Maria Socorro Quiñon, head sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga na-record ang tatlo ka mga kaso sa banwa sang Ajuy, Cabatuan, kag Pototan.
Suno kay Quiñon, nakitaan sang sintomas sang diarrhea, sore throat, kag rashes ang 31-anyos nga pasyente nga naggikan sa Ajuy.
Samtang ang duha naman ka na-close contact sini ang wala nakitaan sang mga nasambit nga sintomas.
Gin-athag man sini nga ang 16-anyos naman nga residente sang Pototan ang ginalantaw nga mahimo nalatonan.
Onse ka bulan nga lapsag naman nga naghalin sa Cabatuan ang ika-tatlo nga naigo-an sang amo nga balatian.
Sa piyak sini, ginkumpirmar sang talatapan nga ang tatlo ang lunsay naman nga nag-ayo kag nakaguwa na sa ospital.
Ginhatagan sang igtalupangod sang ENT (Ear, Nose, and Throat) specialist ang ‘common all-year-round’ nga kaso sang ear problems.
Joebert Villanueva, head sang ENT Care Center sa Western Visayas Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga 80% sa outpatient sa ila talatapan ang nagapangatubang sang problema sa dulunggan.
Suno kay Villanueva, wala sang season nga ginapili ang balatian sa hearing ukon ear problem.
Lakip man sa ginpunto sini ang ‘impacted cerumen’ ukon ang mga nagabagtik nga tutuli nga isa sa nagapanguna nga kaso sa idalom sang ear problems.
Ginpahayag man sini nga isa man sa gina-eksperyensya sang kadam-an amo ang ‘Otitis externa’ ukon ang inflammation sang ear canal nga mahimo makatuga sang pagkabungol kon indi mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga pagbulong.
Sobra nga pag-inom sang soft drinks, isa sa mga rason sa pag-angkon sang kidney stone
Gintumod sang isa ka public health expert nga isa ka ‘common’ na nga balatian sang mga Filipino ang kidney stone bangud man sa nakaandan nga diet sang mga Pinoy.
Hazel Oro, head sang Renal Care Center sang Western Visayas Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga isa sa mga factors sang pag-angkon sang kidney stone amo bangud ang masami nga pagkaon sang mga mapait ukon ma-asin nga pagkaon.
Suno kay Oro, mahimo man makaangkon sang nasambit nga sakit kon mataas ang uric acid ukon mas madamo ang calcium sa ihi.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang junk foods ang may dako nga impluwensya sa ikaayong-lawas ilabi na sa kidney.
Lakip na diri ang soft drinks nga may dala nga dako nga risgo sa tagsa ka tawo nga makahimo sang bato sa kidney.
Gin-ako man sang natungdan nga isa ang kidney stone sa masami makit-an sa ila talatapan bilang outpatient kag ginasundan sang UTI ukon Urinary tract infection.
Public health expert, ginhatagan igtalupangon ang disbentaha sang paghuragok sa ikaayong-lawas
Ginhatagan sang igtalupangod sang isa ka public health expert ang disbentaha sang paghuragok sa ikaayong-lawas sang isa ka indibidwal.
Rosauro Cabana, Medical Specialist II sa Western Visayas Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga ang sleep apnea ukon huragok ang isa ka common nga kondisyon nga kalabanan gina-disregard kag ginakabig nga normal.
Apang suno sa natungdan, indi ini normal kag nagapakita nga ang parte sang alagyan sang hangin ang partially nagasirado.
Gin-athag man sini nga may mga critical point nga nakatabo samtang nagahuragok kon sa diin, mahimo nga totally nagasirado ang alagyan sang hangin.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang amo nga kondisyon ang isa ka genetics sugod sang ginbun-ag ang isa ka tawo.
Ini bangud man sa bone structure ukon facial structure nga mahimo makuha sa mga ginikanan.
Nahibaluan nga ang sleep apnea ukon huragok ang nagakatabo samtang nagakatulog ang isa ka tawo.
Gintuad sang isa ka public health expert nga ginabanta 74,000 ka mga Pinoy ang napatay bangud sa ischemic heart disease.
Rafael Martin Hilado, Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeon sa Western Visayas Medical Center (WVMC), iya ginpahayag nga ginatawag man ang amo nga balatian nga coronary artery disease kag coronary heart disease.
Suno kay Hilado, kon ang mga arteries nagakipot, mas magamay ang dugo kag oxygen ang nagalab-ot sa heart muscle nga mahimo magtuga sang heart attack.
Gin-athag man sini nga mahimo malikawan ang amo nga balatian kon bag-uhon ang lifestyle changes.
Lakip na ang paguntat sang pagpanigarilyo, pag-exercise, 7-9 hours sleep, kag pagkaon sang healthy diet.
Marcelino Felisarta, Adult Cardiologist sa Western Visayas Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga wala sang pili ang cardio vascular diseases, mapa-bata man ukon tigulang.
Ginpahayag man sini nga majority sang ila pasyente nga naga-angkon sang amo nga balatian ang naga-edad 50-60 anyos.
Iloilo City Heath Office, padayon ang monitoring sa kaso sang dengue apisar sang manubo nga kaso
Padayon ang pagbantay sang Iloilo City Heath Office sang mga kaso sang dengue sa syudad.
Jan Reygine Ansino-Hortinela, medical officer III sang Iloilo City Heath Office, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ka importante ang pagpaninlo sa palibot bangud ini ang isa ka pamaagi agud matapna ang pagdamo sang lamok.
Suno kay Hortinela, 11% nga mas manubo ang kaso subong sang dengue sa syudad sugod sang Enero tubtob Pebrero kon ikumpara sa nagligad nga tuig sa kapareho nga period.
Ginpasigurado man sang CHO nga tayuyon ang ginahiwat nga pamulong-pulong sa tagsa ka mga barangay agud ma-edukar ang pumuluyo.
Santo sa data sang talatapan, sugod Enero 1 tubtob Pebrero 24, 2025, isa na ang napatay, samtang may tatlo ka aktibo nga kaso 3, kag 104 ang nakarecover.
72% sang mga Filipino, apektado sang tooth decay suno sa Philippine Dental Association
Nagpanugyan sa publiko ang isa ka dental health expert nga indi magkahadlok nga magpadulong sa dentist kon nagabatyag na sang mga sintomas sang tooth decay.
Rizjan Java Fantillan, isa ka dentista, iya ginpahayag nga isa sa mga ‘early signs’ sang tooth decay ang pagbatyag sang ngilo ukon nagabusog ang ngipon.
Suno kay Fantillan, mas makapaamayo kon mas temprano nga mapa-check ang ngipon agud nga matatapan kag mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga pagbulong.
Gintuad man sang natungdan nga kon ulihi na ang tanan kag wala na gid sang tsansa nga makay-o ang ngipon, mahimo ini ipaidalom sa root canal ukon gaboton na lang gid.
Kalabanan naman sang mga nagaka-eksperyensya sang tooth decay ukon dental caries amo ang naga-edad 5 ka tuig tubtob 12 ka tuig.
Nahibaluan nga santo sa data sang Philippine Dental Association, yara sa 72% sang mga Filipino ang apektado sang tooth decay.
Family Planning Organization of the Philippines (FPOP) – Iloilo Chapter, ginpatpat ang importansya sang condom
Ginpaathag sang Family Planning Organization of the Philippines (FPOP) – Iloilo Chapter ang importansya sang paggamit sang condom agud nga malikawan ang pila ka mga balatian.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mona Liza Diones, Chapter Program Manager sang Family Planning Organization of the Philippines (FPOP) – Iloilo Chapter, iya ginpahayag nga nagapanagtag sila sang libre nga condom agud nga malikawan ang Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs).
Suno kay Diones, ang ila pagpanagtag ang nakasanto man sa nangin mandato sang Department of Health (DOH).
Gin-athag man sini nga ang tikang nga ila ginapatuman ang isa ka prevention agud wala na sang mga menor-de-edad nga maka-engage sa mga indi manami nga akto.
Nahibaluan nga sa ila ginpatuman nga survey, may mga kabataan nga kalalakihan nga naga-offer sang madasig nga kalipayan nga mahimo matunaan man sang pag-angkon sang balatian.
Sa subong, yara na sa masobra 2,000 ka mga indibidiwal ang nagpadulong sa ila nga talatapan agud nga magpaidalom sa tests.
Ginakabug-usan naman ini sang edad nga 15-anyos pasaka.
Pagkaon sang matambok, mantikaon, kag matam-is, mahimo mangin risk factor agud magka-diabetes
Ginpatpat sang isa ka health expert nga madamo sang ‘risk factors’ agud makaangkon ang isa ka tawo sang balatian nga diabetes.
Aretha Gacutan Liwag, Faculty sang West Visayas State University – College of Medecine, iya ginpahayag nga may mga palatandaan agud matumod kon may risgo ang isa ka tawo sa pagsuprer sang diabetes.
Suno kay Liwag, lakip sa factors amo ang lifestyle ukon pangginawi sang isa ka tawo sa adlaw-adlaw.
Kon ang tawo ang wala masyado sang mga activities nga ginahimo, possible ini nga maka-eksperyensya sang nasambit nga balatian.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga ang pagkaon sang matambok, mantikaon, kag matam-is ang makadugang sang factor sa pag-angkon sang balatian.
Ang hinay-hinay nga pagdako sang lawas ang senyales man nga may risgo ang isa ka tawo sa diabetes.
Nagpanugyan man ini sa publiko nga likawan magkaon sang mga nasambit nga pagkaon agud mapabilin nga malayo sa diabetes.
Edwin Mercado bilang bag-o nga President kag CEO PhilHealth
Si Mercado ang nagtal-os kay Emmanuel Ledesma Jr.
kag opisyal nga nagpanumpa subong nga adlaw.
Ang appointment ni Mercado ang natabo matapos gintawag sang pila ka mga health advocates ang pagsaylo sang P60 billion nga pondo sang state insurer sa national treasury bilang “murder” sang Universal Healthcare.
Si Mercado nagserbe bilang vice chairman sang Mercado General Hospital/Qualimed Health Network halin sang Marso 2021 sa diin ginpakita niya ang leadership subong man ang executive kag strategic planning expertise.
Ang natungdan ang isa ka Doctor of Medicine graduate sang University of the Philippines sang 1987 kag nakatapos sang iya Master of Medical Sciences sa Global Health Delivery gikan sa Harvard Medical School sang 2023.
Sa masami, indi gid malikawan nga nagausang ikaw sang ‘chewing gum’ para fresh ang imo ginhawa.
Apang siguraduha nga indi ka na mag-usang sini pag-abot sa inyo nga kwarto para magloving-loving sang imo nga bana ukon asawa.
Ang ‘chewing without swallowing’ ang mahimo nga magresulta sa bloating bangud hangin lang ang imo ginatulon.
Ang imo tiyan kaangay nga nagahulat nga may magasulod nga pagkaon gani maga-release ini sang enzymes agud magtunaw sang pagkaon nga mahimo magresulta sa gastric problems.
Gani samtang mahamot ang imo baba, ikaw naman ang prone sa pag-emit sang iban nga baho samtang kamo ang nagapakighilawas.
Santo sa New England Journal of Medicine, ang peppermint kilala man nga naga- repress sang testosterone nga nagaresulta sa manubo nga libido ukon gana sa sex.
Misconception sa pag-inom sang bulong para sa hypertension, ginklaro sang public health expert
Nagapati ang isa ka public health expert nga isa ang hypertension sa mga sakit nga para sa mga Filipino, ginakabig na lamang isa ka normal.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Franco Miguel Nodado, Vice President sang Iloilo City Host Leo Club, iya ginpahayag nga madamo sa mga Ilonggo ilabi na sa mga driver ang nagasuprer sang hypertension.
Ang hypertension ang kilala sa tawag nga high blood.
Suno kay Nodado, madamo sang misinterpretation nahanungod sa pag-inom sang bulong nga nagapahagan-hagan sang high blood.
Lakip na diri ang pagpaiway nga mag-inom sang bulong bangud kuno, makaguba sang kidney.
Gin-athag man ni Nodado nga ang pag-inom sang bulong para sa high blood ang tuman gid ka importante, baliskad sa misconception nga nagaguba sang kidney.
Ginpangabay man sang natungdan ang publiko ilabi na ang mga na-diagnose nga may high blood nga mag-inom gid sang bulong agud indi na maglala pa ang amo nga balatian.
Nagpanugyang man ini nga magpaidalom sa mga health screening agud gilayon nga matumod kon nagasuprer sang nasambit nga balatian.
Panit sang sandiya, makabulig sa erectile dysfunction problem suno sa pagtuon
Paborito mo man bala ang tropical fruit nga sandiya?
Nakahibalo ka bala nga kaangay sang cucumber, edible ukon makaon ang sandiya tubtob sa iya panit?
Atli Arnarson, licensed nutritionist sa Iceland, nagakadapat nga indi pag-ihaboy ang panit sang watermelon ukon sandiya bangud manggaranon ini sa fiber, nagapanubo sang blood pressure, naga-boost sang workout kag nagapasanyog sang libido.
Natukiban nga ang panit sang sandiya ang concentrated ukon puno sang libido-boosting powers nga amino acid nga ginatawag nga citrulline.
Ini nga chemical ang makabulig sa mga kalalakihan nga may yara sang mild tubtob sa moderate nga erectile dysfunction.
Natural diuretic man ang watermelon rind ukon ang panit sang sandiya kag manggaranon ini sa vitamins A kag C, potassium, kag magnesium nga nagabulig balanse sa blood pressure sang isa ka indibidwal.
Magluwas diri, ang mataas nga fiber content sang panit sang sandiya ang nagapabuhin sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang balatian sa colon kag nagapa-maintain sang healthy weight.
Ang panit sang sandiya suno sa nutritionist ang mahimo ilakot sa nanuhay-tuhay nga potahe, kag pwede man himuon nga shake ukon juice.
Pagkaon sang french fries, nagapanubo sang ‘sex drive’ suno sa pagtuon
Ka-Bombo, mahilig ka bala magkaon sang mantikaon nga pagkaon kaangay sang french fries?
Maghalong bangud mahimo maapektuhan ang imo performance sa kama.
Suno sa Medical Daily, ang mga trans fats nga makit-an sa fried foods ang amat-amat nga nagabuhin sang male kag female libido.
Ini man ang makatuga sang abnormal sperm production sa lalaki kag nagatuga man sang problema sa female gestation.
Gani kun mahimo pa lang, likawan ang mga pagkaon nga ginprito kag madamo sang mantika ilabi na sa panyapon antes kamo maghulid sang imo nga partner.
IPHO, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga magdoble halong kasunod sang na-record nga monkeypox ukon Mpox sa Baguio City
Nagpanugyan ang Iloilo Provincial Health Office (IPHO) sa publiko nga magdoble halong kasunod sang na-record nga una nga kaso sang monkeypox ukon Mpox sa Baguio City.
Maria Socorro Quiñon, Head sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga ang mpox ang indi naman bag-o sa Iloilo.
Suno kay Quiñon, ang epidemiology and surveillance unit sang probinsya ang functional agud nga kon may kaso man nga makasulod, gilayon nga matatapan.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ipaidalom anay sa maid-id nga mga test ang masuspetsahan nga may amo nga balatian agud matumod antes makumpirma.
Nagpasalig man ang natungdan nga sige-sige ang disease surveillance sa probinsya kag sa subong, wala pa sang may na-record nga monkey pox ukon mpox.
Padayon man ang surveillance sang amo nga balatian sa tagsa ka rural health units kag hospitals sa Iloilo.
High blood, masami ginasuprer sang mga katapo sang Philippine Army
Gintu-ad sang isa ka military medical officer nga kalabanan sa mga katapo sang Philippine Army ang nagasuprer sang hypertension ukon high blood.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Major Angela Mae Mabalot, Medical Officer sang 3rd Infantry Division sang Philippine Army, iya ginpahayag nga ang hypertension ang isa lamang sa mga ‘common’ nga condition nga ginabatyag sang katapo sang Philippine Army.
Suno kay Mabalot, isa sa factor kon ngaa nagasuprer ang mga suldado sang amo nga sakit bangud man sa nature sang ila trabaho.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kalabanan sa suldado nga operating officers ang nagakaon sang ‘preserved food’ kaangay sang mga can foods nga masami man ginabalon kon sila ang may misyon.
Limitado man sila sa malimpyo nga tubig-ilimnon kag kon ano lamang ang available, amo lang man na ang ila mainom.
Rason man nga malapit ang mga suldado nga mag-angkon sang hypertension ukon high blood.
Iloilo City District Jail – Male Dormitory, nagpasalig nga ginatatap ang mga preso nga may health problems
Ginpasigurado sang Iloilo City District Jail – Male Dormitory nga matatapan ang mga Persons Deprived of Liberty (PDLs) sa ila mga kinahanglanon sa medical kag sa ikaayong-lawas.
Sa interview sang Bomb Rayo kay JO2 Krishna Rama Jover, Asst.
Chief Health Service Unit of Iloilo City District Jail – Male Dormitory, iya ginpahayag nga ‘in general’ yara sa maayo nga kahimtangan ang ila PDLs subong, ini bangud man sa bulig sang mga opisyal sang BJMP sa higher level.
Suno kay Jover, may mga PDLs man sila nga nagamasakit na nga daan sang nagsulod sa presohan kag kalabanan diri amo ang diabetes kag hypertension.
40 pataas naman ang edad sang PDLs nga masami naga-ekspersyensya sang mga nasambit nga sakit.
Factor naman sa pag-angkon sang sakit amo ang pagbaylo-baylo sang panahon.
Sa kabug-usan nga 1,394 ka mga PDLs Iloilo City District Jail, 21 diri ang diabetic, 63 naman ang hypertensive, kag 15 ang asthmatic.
Nagpasalig man ini nga gina-una gid hatagan sang medical attention ang preso nga may malala nga sakit nga nakabase man sa ila sitwasyon.
Ginapaidalom naman sa counseling session ang mga PDLs nga may mental health condition.
Suno kay JO2 Jose Justo Orbina, Chief nurse sang Iloilo City District Jail – Male Dormitory, paagi sa amo nga tikang, gilayon matumod ang mga PDLs nga nagapangatubang sang mga problema nga mahimo mahulog sa depression.
Ginpasigurado man sang natungdan nga may psychometrician nga naga-check sa mga PDL nga nagabatyag na sang psychological problems.
Post traumatic disorder kag social anxiety disorder, mahimo ma-ekspersyahan sang mga nabiktima sang pulupok
Mahimo nga magkaangkon ang isa ka indibidwal sang post traumatic disorder bangud sa paggamit sang palupok ilabi na sa pagselebrar sang bag-ong tuig.
Rodney Labis, Chief sang Health Service Division sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga ang post traumatic disorder isa ka balatian nga madasig nga nagakulbaan kon makabati sang lupok.
Suno kay Labis,ang mga naka-eksperysensya naman sang injuries bangud sa palupok, mahimo makaangkon sang bag-o nga psychological effect.
Indi lamang psychological bangud posible man sa iya physical nga lawas ilabi na kon may nautod ukon napilasan.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan nga mahimo makaangkon sang social anxiety disorder ang nautdan sang parte sang lawas bangud man sa kahadlok sa mangin pana-awan sang iba.
Nagpanugyan man ang natungdan sa publiko nga kon mahimo, indi na pagtudlo-an ang mga kabataan nga maggamit sang palupok sa kada pagselebrar sang bag-ong tuig agud indi na makaangkon sang mga nasambit nga kahalitan.
DOH, gin-athag nga wala sang kamatuoran ang nagalibot sa social media nga may “international health concern”
Ginpanginwala sang Department of Health (DOH) ang mga report sang ginaalegar nga “international health concern” nga nagalibot sa social media.
Suno sa Department of Health, sa karon wala sang nagasuporta sa nagalapta nga mga post sa social media nahanungod sa ginaalegar nga international health concern.
Gin-isyu sang DOH ang pahayag sa tunga sang mga paglapta sa social media nahanungod sa bag-o nga epidemya nga gina-alegar naga-overwhelm sa mga ospital kag crematory sa China nga naga-involve sang influenza A, HMPV, mycoplasma pneumoniae, kag COVID-19.
Ginpanginwala man sang Chinese Embassy sa Pilipinas ang mga post sa social media kag gintawag ini nga “fake news”.
Ginhatagan pagtamod sang DOH nga ang Pilipinas isa ka aktibo nga miyembro sang World Health Organization network nga nagasunod sa International Health Regulations (IHR).
Ini nga sistema nagahatag sang mga update sa mga concern sa ikaayong lawas.
Ang mga disease surveillance systems sang Pilipinas nagapadayon nga naga-function kon sa diin, aktibo nga gina-verify sang DOH ang tanan nga impormasyon, kag padayon nga gina-update ang publiko.
Nagapanugyan man ang ahensya indi pag-i-share ang mga kwestyonable nga website ukon mga ginhalinan sa online.
Kaso sang firecracker-related injuries nga nabalhag sang IPHO, naglab-ot na sa 35
Naglab-ot na sa 35 ka mga kaso sang firecracker-related injuries ang nabalhag sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office (IPHO).
Ini ang na-record sugod sang Disyembre 21, 2024 tubtob Enero 2, 2025.
Rodney Labis, Chief sang Health Service Division sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga apat ang nagdugang nga mga kaso, kon sa diin, sa kabug-usan kalabanan diri ang bangud sa paggamit sang boga ukon improvised cannon.
Suno kay Labis, halos sa mga nabiktima ang naga-edad isa tubtob pulo ka tuig nga nagabutang sa 48.5% sang kabug-usan nga firecracker related injuries.
Kalabanan naman sa mga pilas nga naangkon sang mga biktima amo ang eye injury nga yara sa 20 ka kaso, ginasundan sang burn injury ‘with no amputation’ nga may 13 ka kaso, duha naman sa burn injury ‘with amputation’ sa banwa sang San Enrique kag Cabatuan.
Yari naman ang listahan sang mga banwa nga nabalhag nga may firecrackers cases:
Nagapati man ang natungdan nga labing-importante sa gihapon ang mga tikang nga ipatuman sang law enforcement agencies agud nga malikawan ang amo nga insidente.
188 nga kaso sang firecracker-related injuries nabalhag sang DOH, inoras antes ang bag-ong tuig
Nagsaka sa 188 ang kaso sang firecracker-related injuries nga nabalhag sang Department of Health (DOH).
Suno kay Department of Health spokesperson Assistant Secretary Albert Domingo, ang kaso subong nga tuig ang mas mataas kon ikumpara sa 124 cases nga na-report sa kapareho nga period sang 2023.
Ini ang mas mataas sang 52% kon ipaangid sang 2023.
Suno kay Domingo, kalabanan sa kabugh-usan sang kaso ang bangud sa boga—an improvised cannon nga himo sa PVC pipes kag ginagamitan sang denatured alcohol—ginasunda ini sang five star, kag piccolo.
Lakip naman ang eye injury, burnt skin ukon severed body parts ang masami nga complaints sang firecracker victims nga na-record sang DOH.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang mga biktima ang halos naga-edad lima tubtob 19-anyos, kon sa diin ang na-report ang naghalin sa Metro Manila, Central Luzon, Western Visayas, Ilocos Region, kag Central Visayas.
Ginalauman sang DOH nga magasaka pa ang numero sang firecracker-related injuries sa tion mismo sang pagsug-alaw sang New Year.
Sang nagligad tuig, yara sa 140 ka kaso ang na-report sa tion lang sang midnight celebration.
Agud respondehan ang influx sang emergency patients sa tion sang New Year celebration, ginpasalig ni Domingo nga ang DOH hospitals kag regional offices ang yara sa Code White Alert tubtob Enero 6.
DOH, nagpahanumdom sa publiko sa pagsaulog sang Holiday season
Nagpahanumdom ang Department of Health (DOH) sa tanan nga halungan ang ikaayong lawas samtang nagasaulog sang holiday season.
Rodney Labis, Head sang Health Service Delivery Division sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga nagakadapat nga maglikaw sa “holiday heart syndrome,” nga isa ka kondisyon nga mahimo magresulta sa mga seryoso nga isyu sa ikaayong lawas kaangay sang stroke, ilabi na kun ang mga indibidwal ang nagapanagusto lang sa pagsinadya kag pagkaon.
Agud malikawan ang kaangay nga komplikasyon sa ikaayong lawas, nagapadapat nga magpabilin nga healthy pinaagi sa insakto nga pagkaon, regular nga ehersisyo, kag disiplina.
Magluwas diri, ginpahanumdom man sang ahensya sa publiko nga maghalong sa pagbyahe.
Isa man sa mga dapat nga tandaan amo nga kun may insakto nga battery, suga, oil, gas, kag tubig kag kun nagagana sang insakto ang brake, makina, kag royda sang mga salakyan.
Nagakadapat man nga likawan ang magmaneho kung hubog kag kapoy agud indi maaksidente.
Likawan man suno sa natungdan ang mag-cellphone kag mag-text kung nagamaneho.
DOH, nagpaandam vs holiday heart syndrome, nag-remind sa paghagan-hagan sa pagkaon
Nagpaandam ang Department of Health (DOH) kaangot sa holiday heart syndrome nga mahimo matuga sang tuman nga pag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon, pagbatyag sang stress, kakulang sang pahuway, kag pagkaon sang maalat nga mga pagkaon.
Suno kay Health Secretary Teodoro Herbosa, subong nga sinakuay ang mga handa kadungan sang holidays, dapat nga hagan-haganon sang mga Pinoy ang pagkonsumo sang maasin, matambok, kag matam-is nga mga pagkaon.
Sa baylo, ginapanugyan ang pagpili sang mga prutas kag mga utan kag magpangita gid sang oras agud nga maka-ehersisyo.
Ini ang lyabe suno sa health official agud nga malikawan ang holiday heart syndrome.
Ini nga kondisyon sang korason mahimo nga mag-resulta sa arrhythmia ukon sa abnormal heart rhythm nga magaresulta naman sa stroke.
Sang nagligad lamang nga weekend, nagpatigayon ang ahensya sang Ligtas Christmas Hospital Preparedness and Response Rounds para masigurado nga handa ang mga ospital sa pagtatap sa mga pasyente nga may holiday heart syndrome kaangay sang stroke.
Sa trend sang 2023, na-rekord sang DOH ang 38 stroke cases sa bulan lamang sang Disyembre kag nagsaka pa sa 42 cases nga na-rekord naman sa Enero 2024.
Naka-record man ang health department sang 110 cases sang acute coronary heart syndrome sang Disyembre 2023 nga nakadangat sa 115 sang Enero 2024.
Tuman nga paggamit sang iligal nga druga, makatuga sang chronic brain disease
Ginpatpat sang pila ka mga doctor ang mahimo padulongan ukon maabtan sang isa ka tawo nga naga-engage sa illegal drugs.
Maria Lourdes Hembra, Chief of Hospital sang Department of Health – Treatment and Rehabilitation Center Pototan, iya ginpahayag nga ang ‘drug addiction’ ang isa ka chronic brain disease, kon sa diin, ang tawo nga nagagamit ang masami nga nagapangita sang iligal nga druga.
Hembra, ang tawo nga adik sa druga ang indi maka-function sang maayo kon wala naga-hithit sang druga.
Gin-athag man sini nga masami man nga mindset sang mga illegal drug users amo ang makabulig ang paggamit sini sa ila trabaho ukon ginaubra, apang ang kamatuoran amo ang makatuga lamang sang pagkaguba sang utok.
Mahimo man nga magresulta sa mental health disorder ang tuman nga paggamit sang druga ilabi na kon indi gilayon nga matatapan.
Mariano Hembra, isa ka adult and addiction psychiatrist, nga ang paggamit sang iligal nga druga indi makabig nga tumalagsahon lang bangud nangin parte na ini sang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga tanan sang mga na-adik sa druga.
Ginpahayag man sini nga indi lamang ang paggamit sang illegal drugs ang makaapekto sa pang-adlaw-adlaw nga routine sang isa ka tawo, bangud ang gulpiyada nga pag-untat gamit ang makaapekto man sa daily routine sang isa ka drug addict.
Otitis media ukon middle ear infection, isa sa mga posible ma-eksperyensyahan sang mga bata kon malamig ang panahon
Mahimo nga mahulog sa otitis media ukon middle ear infection ang common cold nga mabatyagan sang mga kabataan subong nga holiday season nga malamig ang panahon.
Philip Ian Padilla, Assistant to the Director sang Philippine Genome Center, iya ginpahayag nga ang otitis media ukon ang middle ear infection ang prone sa mga bata, ilabi na ang naga-edad sang anom ka bulan tubtob isa ka tuig kag duha ka tuig.
Suno kay Padilla, ang mga bata ang naga-bottle feeding ang prone man sa amo nga balatian bangud sa mas mahina pa ang ila nga system nga pakigbato-an ang nasambit nga sakit.
Ginakabig man sini nga mas madasig mag-angkon sang otitis media ang mga bata nga wala naka-breast feed.
Kon masarangan, kinahanglan nga i-breast feed ang mga bata agud nga mas mapabaskog ang ila immune system.
Nagaumpisa naman ang sakit paagi sa mga symptom nga sip-on kon sa diin, posible ini makalaton sa kapareho man nga bata paagi sa mucous nga nagaguwa halin sa bata nga may middle ear infection.
Nagpanugyan man ang natungdan sa mga ginikanan nga gilayon hatagan sang antibiotics ang bata nga makitaan sang sintomas agud nga malikawan nga maglapta kag makalaton.
Nagpahanumdom ang isa ka dentist nga paimnon sang madamo nga tubig ang bata nga masami nagakaon sang mga candies agud nga malikawan nga magka-guting ang ngipon.
Wenca Louise Dajay-Ortizo, isa ka Dentist, iya ginpahayag nga kon mag-tooth brush, kinahanglan nga indi pag-uboson dupla ang fluoride bangud ini ang nagabulig agud nga malimpyohan ang ngipon.
Dajay-Ortizo, kon ang dental enamel ang maguba, ang ngipon mahimo nga mabuslot ukon magasgasan, rason man nga ginatunaan ini sang cavities.
Nagpanugyan man ang natungdan nga kon may budget, amat-amat nga ipa-check ang ngipon agud nga indi malipatan ang ikaayo sang oral health.
Nahibaluan nga seven out of 10 Filipinos, ukon 72 percent sang populasyon, ang naga-eksperyensya sang dental caries or tooth decay, suno sa Philippine Dental Association (PDA).
Iloilo, nagapanguna sa may pinakamataas nga kaso sang HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) sa Western Visayas
Nagapanguna ang Iloilo sa may pinakamataas nga kaso sang HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) sa Western Visayas.
Rodney Labis, Chief, Health Service Delivert Division sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga halin 1986 tubtob Septyembre 2024, ang Iloilo ang may na-record nga 1,990 nga kaso sang HIV, kon sa diin, 249 ang nabalhag nga napatay.
Suno kay Labis, kon ikumpara naman ang mga kaso subong nga tuig 2024, mas mataas ini sang nagligad nga 2023.
Ginakabig man sang natungdan nga mas maayo nga indikasyon ang pagsaka sang numero sang amo nga balatian bangud amat-amat na nga na-detect sang ila talatapan kag gilayon nga mabulong.
Nagapati man ang natungdan nga importante nga matumod ang mga indibidwal agud nga indi na mahulog pa sa Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) ang amo nga balatian.
Nahibaluan nga sa 43 ka mga local government units (LGU) sa probinsya, sugod Enero tubtob Setyembre 2024, ang mga banwa nga may mataas nga kaso sang HIV amo ang: Pavia, Sta.
IPHO, nagpanugyan nga magpa-test agud matumod ang HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) status
Nagpanugyan ang Iloilo Provincial Health Office (IPHO) sa publiko nga magpa-screen ukon magpa-test agud matumod ang HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) status.
Ini kasunod man sang mataas nga numero sang mga kaso sang amo nga balatian sa Iloilo.
Rodney Labis, Chief, Health Service Delivert Division sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga mas makapamaayo kon may ihibalo ang isa ka tawo sa iya nga HIV status agud nga ma-link ini treatment.
Suno kay Labis, ini agud man nga ma-maintain ang practices agud mapabilin nga nonreactive ukon negatibo sa HIV.
Apang, kon maguwa naman nga positibo sa amo nga balatian, mahimo sa gihapon ini nga matabangan paagi sa mga bulong nga nagabulig pabalik sang healthy nga immune system.
Gihingyo man sini ang Ilonggo nga magpakig-angot sa tagsa ka Rural Health Unit (RHU) sa ila banwa agud man makapaidalom sa counseling kon nagasuprer sang HIV.
Nahibaluan nga halin 1986 tubtob Septyembre 2024, ang Iloilo ang may na-record nga 1,990 nga kaso sang HIV, kon sa diin, 249 ang nabalhag nga napatay.
Health expert, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga mangin responsable sa paggamit sang tubig ilabi na kon ini ang ilimnon ukon ginagamit panghugas
Nagpaandam ang isa ka doktor sa publiko nga mangin responsable sa paggamit sang tubig ilabi na kon ini ang ilimnon ukon ginagamit panghugas.
Lance Randolph Silario, Physician, iya ginpahayag nga mahimo magsuprer sang balatian nga cholera, dysentery, hepatitis A, kag typhoid kon masami nagakonsumo sang mahigko nga tubig-ilimnon.
Suno kay Silario, isa sa mga labing importante agud nga mapabilin nga limpyo ang tubig-ilimnon amo ang pagpabilin man nga malimpyo ang kagamitan, kaangay na lamang sang water container ukon tumbler.
Nagpanugyan man ang natungdan nga sa simple nga paghugas sang kamot, mahimo na nga makalikaw sa pag-angkon sang mga waterborne diseases.
Common naman sa Pilipinas ang masami nga kaso sang diarrhea bangud sa mahigko nga source sang tubig ilabi na kon magbaha nga dala sang malain nga panahon.
Public health expert, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga likawan ang tuman nga exposure sa adlaw agud nga makalikaw sa skin cancer
Nagpanugyan ang public health expert sa publiko nga amligan ang panit kag likawan ang tuman nga exposure sa adlaw agud nga makalikaw sa balatian nga skin cancer.
Alfebey Lozada Monarca-Abonado, Otorhinologist, iya ginpahayag nga ang nagasuprer sang skin cancer ang pisikal nga makit-an nga may bukol apang masami nga ma-ekspersyahan ang pag-itom sang porsyon sang panit.
Suno kay Abonado, kon manotisyaran ang nasambit nga sintomas, gilayon nga magpa-checkup agud indi na ini maglala.
Gin-athag man sini nga may nagkalain-lain nga sintomas ang amo nga balatian, kon sa diin, mahimo ini nga nagakapilas kag ang mas malala diri, nagadugo.
Santo naman sa pagtuon, nahibaluan nga isa sa mga sahi sang skin cancer nga masami ginasuprer sang pila ka indibidwal, amo ang Basal cell carcinoma nga masami man nga nagatubo sa may maputi nga panit.
Health expert, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga mangin sensitibo sa mga tigulang nga nagasuprer sang Alzheimer’s disease
Nagpanugyan ang health expert sa publiko nga mangin sensitibo sa mga tigulang nga nagasuprer sang Alzheimer’s disease.
Philip Ian Padilla, Assistant to the Director for the Philippine Genome Center sa Diliman, iya ginpahayag nga ang Alzheimer ang isa ka progresibo nga balatian, nga nagakahulugan nga ang mga sintoma nagalala sa pagligad sang panahon.
Suno kay Padilla, masami sa mga naga-atipan sa ila pamilya nga may kaangay nga balatian, ang nagabatyag nga daw masami nagaatubang sang bag-o nga pagpanghangkat.
Bangud man nga ang isa ka tawo nga may amo nga balatian ang nagapakita sang senyales kag mga sintomas, apang mahimo sa gihapon nga makaubra sang professional kag social activities.
Apang, mahimo nga nabudlayan sila sa pila ka mga buluhaton nga nagalakip sang ‘thinking’ kag ‘memory’.
Nagpanugyan man ini sa mga naga-alaga sang may Alzheimer nga mangin aktibo sa adlaw-adlaw nga mga hilikuton agud makahatag sang stimulation sa pasyente.
Importante man nga ipabilin nga nutritious kag balanced diet ang ipakaon sa indibidwal nga may Alzheimer.
Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD), ginakabig sang public health expert nga isa ka tumalagson nga balatian
Ginakabig sang pila ka mga public health expert nga isa ka tumalagson nga balatian ang Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD).
Uzanne Marie Carmona-Barrera, Head sang Newborn Screening Long Term Continuity Clinic sang West Visayas State University – Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga ang MSUD isa ka talagsahon apang seryoso nga metabolicc nga balatian nga mahimo makatalagam sa kabuhi kon indi ini maatipan sang temprano.
Suno kay Carmona-Barrera ang confirmatory testing pagkatapos sang positibo nga resulta sang newborn screening ang importante agud matumod kon ang isa ka lapsag ang may yara sang Maple syrup urine disease.
Gin-athag man sini nga ang long-term management sang MSUD nagalakip sang estrikto nga pagkontrol sa pagkaon, regular monitoring, kag paghanda para sa mga metabolic crises.
Nahibaluan nga ang temprano nga detection paagi sa newborn screening ang magahatag sang immediate intervention, nga nagapauswag sang prognosis para sa mga apektado nga kabataan.
Paghatag sang igtalupangod sa mga sintomas sang mental health issues, gin-apelar sang isa ka doktor
Gintumod sang isa ka eskperto nga tuman ka importante nga mahatagan sang igtalupangod ang mental health sa ikaayong lawas sang isa ka tawo.
Evony Allisa-Deveza, visiting consultant sa West Visayas State University – Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga mahatagan sang importansya ang mental health paagi sa diskusyon ukon pagpakig-istorya sa mga indibidwal nga masami masubo.
Suno kay Deveza, kon may ikaayong lawas, may yara man dapat sang ikaayo para sa aton nga utok ilabi na nga ang brain ang isa sa major organ sa aton.
Ginsaysay man sini nga paagi sa pagbukas sang kaugalingon nga panghuna-huna sa mga naga-eksperyensya sang depression kag anxiety, mahimo nga makabulig sa isigkapareho.
Gintumod man sang natungdan ang mga tinaga nga ginbuy-an sang World Health Organization (WHO) nga “There is no health without mental health”.
Nag-apelar man ang doctor nga mangin sensitibo sa mga indibidwal nga masami nagapangasubo bangud sila ang may dako nga potensyal nga makaangkon sang mental health issues.
Eksperto, nagpahanumdom sa mga yara sa high risk nga makaangkon sang thyroid cancer nga mangin health conscious
Nagpahanumdom ang isa ka eksperto sa publiko nga yara sa high risk nga makaangkon sang thyroid cancer.
Lorenz Gonzales, ENT Consultant, iya ginpahayag nga malikawan ang thyroid cancer kon may yara sang healthy body weight ang isa ka tawo.
Suno kay Gonzales, ang insakto sa oras nga pagkaon kag pagpartisipar sa physical activities ang makabulig man agud nga mangin healthy.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang pagkaon sang mga gulay tagsa ka adlaw ang makaprotektar sa lawas batok sa thyroid cancer.
Ginrekomenda man sang natungdan nga magpa-check up sa doctor agud makahimo sang preventive measures kag indi matapikan sang amo nga balatian.
Nahibaluan nga santo sa pagtuon, yara sa 7.3% sa kada 100,000 ka Filipino males ang nagasuprer sang thyroid cancer, samtang 17.3% naman per 100,000 para sa Filipino females.
Stigma sa mental health sa Pilipinas, indi pa mahambal sang isa ka eksperto nga natapos na
Indi pa mahambal sang sang isa ka eskperto nga madamo na ang na-edukar nahanungod sa mental health condition diri sa Pilipinas.
Florence Matthew Besares, isa ka psychiatrist, iya ginpahayag nga nagapabilin sa gihapon ang “stigma” apisar nga amat-amat nga gina-edukar ang mga Pilipino kaangot sa mental nga bahin sang ikaayong-lawas.
Suno kay Besares, indi tanan nga concern sa mental health ang matawag nga “nabuang” nga masami man nga ginagamit nga terminolohiya sa mga tawo nga naga-eksperyensya sang psychological condition.
Nagpanawagan man ini sa mga pamatan-on nga gamiton kag i-take advantage ang social media agud magamit bilang isa ka source agud nga mapalapnag ang kahulugan kag importansya sang mental health condition.
Ginaduso man sini ang tagsa ka indibidwal nga indi magkahadlok nga magpamangkot sa mga doktor kag eksperto nahanungod sa kondisyon sang mental health bangud indi ma-control ang nagasulod sa aton nga panghuna-huna.
Mahimo lamang nga ma-control sang isa ka tawo ang iya nga pangginawe kaangay sang kon paano kita mag-istorya kag mag-akto.
Gintumod man sang eksperto nga indi tanan nga eksperyensya nga naagyan sang isa ka tawo ang masarangan man sang sang isa pa ka tawo, rason man nga kinahanglan mangin “compassionate” sa himata ukon kapamilya.
Mayor Treñas, ginklaro nga siya ang healthy kag wala sang ano man nga ginabatyag
Ginklaro ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga siya ang healthy kag wala sang ano man nga ginabatyag subong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga maayo gid ang kahimtangan sang iya nga ikaayong-lawas kag wala sang malain nga ginasuprer nga sakit.
Suno kay Treñas, luwas sa iya nga sinusitis nga anay na nga gin-operahan, wala naman siya sang ginaproblema subong sa iya nga bahin sang health.
Gintumod man sini nga may ginainom man siya nga bulong rason nga nagniwang ini.
Gin-ako man sang alkalde nga ang bulong nga iya ginainom amo ang para sa diabetes, rason man nga gakadulaan siya sang gana magkaon.
Ini ang nangin rason man agud nga mag-lose sang 20 pounds si Mayor Treñas.
Eksperto, nagpaandam sa publiko nga maghalong sa mga peke nga dermatologists kag aestheticians nga naga-perform sang illegal procedures
Nagpahanumdom ang eksperto sa publiko nga maghalong sa mga peke nga dermatologists kag aestheticians nga naga-perform sang illegal procedures nga posible makaapekto sa ikaayong-lawas.
Aizylnn Anne Robledo, Dermatologist, iya ginpahayag nga mag-andam sa mga dermatologists kag aestheticians nga wala sang standard nga trainings kag certificate nahanungod sa derma procedures.
Suno kay Robledo, ang mga aestheticians ang wala sang kinamatarong nga mag-inject ukon mag-opera sa isa ka pasyente ilabi na nga indi sila isa ka doctor kag dermatologist.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang aesthetic doctors lamang ang may sarang nga magpatuman sang aesthetic procedure bangud sila ang nakapasar sa Philippine Medical Licensure Examination.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga siguraduhon nga may lisensya ang isa ka dermatologist antes magpaidalum sa isa ka procedure.
Gintumod man sini nga indi buot silingon nga kon naka-training sa isa ka programa, lehitimo na ini nga isa ka aestheticians, bangud ang matuod-tuod nga aesthetician ang naga-require sang tinuig nga training kag may pamatuod nga sertipiko halin Philippine Medical Licensure Examination.
CHO, gina-propose ang P7,040,000 nga budget sa Iloilo City Council para sa state of calamity bangud man sa dengue
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬—Gina-propose sang Iloilo City Health Office (CHO) ang P7,040,000 nga budget sa Iloilo City Council para sa state of calamity bangud man sa mataas nga numero sang dengue cases sa syudad.
Annabelle Tang, Head sang Iloilo City Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga ang proposed nga pondo ang gamiton sa pag-procure sang mga testing kits and supply.
Suno kay Tang, ibakal man ini sang mga misting equipment kag mga bulong batok sa lamok nga ipangatag sa tagsa ka mga barangay sa Iloilo City.
Ginpahayag man sini nga tinutuyo man sang talatapan nga mapadasig nga mapanubo ang numero sang mga nagpositibo sa dengue.
Gin-ako naman sang natungdan nga anay na nga ginalantaw sang talatapan ang dengue outbreak antes ginrekomenda sang City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council ang state of calamity.
Natalana naman nga iplastar bwas nga adlaw ang breakdowns sa kon diin pagid gamiton ang nasambit nga pondo.
Santo pinakabag-o nga record sang City Health Office, sugod sang Enero tubtob Agosto 27, 2024, naglab-ot na sa 903 ang kaso sang dengue, kon sa diin apat na ang na-record nga napatay.
Pagkumusta paagi sa pakig-istorya sa abyan ukon kakilala, makabulig pahagan-hagan sang depresyon
Nagapati ang isa ka mga doktor nga dako ang mabulig sang pamilya, abyan, kag himata sang isa ka tawo agud nga mapalayo ini sa kasablagan sa patag sang mental health.
Ken Patrick Ingles, Psychiatrist sa Don Jose Monfort Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga ang usual nga rason kon ngaa nagaka-depress ang isa ka tawo ang wala sang specific nga kabangdanan bangud may nagalakip ini sang madamo nga factors.
Suno kay Ingles, ang amo nga sakit ang indi gilayon ma-predict ukon matumod apang mahimo nga mapunggan kon gilayon nga matatapan, paagi man sa bulig paggiya kag laygay sa isa ka tawo nga nagasuprer sang mental health crisis.
Ginpahayag man sini nga ang isa ka tawo nga nagapanumdom nga utason ang kaugalingon nga kabuhi ang may ginabatyag na nga daan nga indi maayo sa iya mental health condition.
Gin-athag man sang doktor nga kon sarang nga makabulig, mangin sensitibo nga abyan kag tsekyaron gid kon ano ang nabatyagan sang himata paagi sa pagpakig-istorya.
Nagpanugyan man ang ang natungdan sa publiko nga bantayan ang abyan nga anay na nagkumiter nga utason ang kabuhi bangud dako ang tsansa nga posible sini liwaton.
Pamunuan sang Iloilo CHO, nagapati nga dapat tun-an sang national government ang bakuna para sa dengue
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 —Nagapati ang pamunuan sang Iloilo City Health Office (CHO) nga dapat tun-an sang national government ang bakuna sa dengue agud nga mabato-an na ang nagalala kaso sang balatian.
Annabelle Tang, head sang City Health Office (CHO), iya ginpahayag nga suportado niya ang pagbakuna sa mga indibidwal agud nga indi na madapuan sang makamamatay nga dengue.
Suno kay Tang, tuman ka importante ang mangin rolyo sang bakuna ilabi na nga sa tagsa ka tuig may nagalusot gid nga kaso sang dengue.
Ginpahayag man sini nga kinahanglan na nga maghimo sang bakuna agud nga makabulig sa pagpanubo sang mga nagapositibo sa amo nga balatian.
Nagapati man ini nga kon may bakuna na batok sa dengue, sarang sini nga maprotektahan ang isa ka indibiwal ilabi na kon may manubo nga immune system.
Nahibaluan nga naglab-ot na sa 800 ka mga kaso sang dengue ang nakumpirmar syuda, kon sa diin tatlo diri ang napatay.
Nagpaandam si Health Secretary Ted Herbosa batok sa community transmission sang mpox ukon kilala anay nga monkeypox virus.
Ini kasunod sang kumpirmasyon nga naka-rekord na ang Pilipinas sang una nga kaso sang amo nga balatian kasunod sang pagdeklarar sang World Health Organization (WHO) nga isa ini ka public health emergency.
Suno sa Department of Health (DOH) chief, isa ka 33-anyos nga lalaki sa Metro Manila ang infected nga subong nahilanat kag may rashes sa nawong, likod, likod sang liog, lawas, palad, kag iban pa nga parte sang lawas.
Ginabulong ini subong sa isa ka government hospital kag nagapadayon ang contact tracing.
Talalupangdon nga wala sang history ang pasyente nga naka-byahe ini sa luwas sang pungsod nga nagakahulugan suno sa tiglikom nga diri sa Pilipinas naghalin ang virus kag indi ini imported.
Matandaan nga antes ang bag-o nga outbreak sa Africa, may siyam na nga daan ka kaso sa Pilipinas sang 2023.
Ang mpox isa ka balatian nga tuga sang monkeypox virus.
Una ini nga na-rekord sa mga amo sang 1958 kag ang una nga transmission sang virus sa tawo ang natabo sang 1970.
Mahimo maglaton ang balatian paagi sa direct contact sa body fluids ukon skin-to-skin contact.
Pila ka mga doktor, nagpahanumdom nga importante ang panglimpyo sang ugsaran agud malikawan ang dengue
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 —Liwat nagpahanumdom ang pila ka doktor sa publiko nga magpatuman sang primary intervention agud nga malikawan nga pugaran sang lamok ang tagsa ka ugsaran.
Ini kasunod man sang padayon nga pagsaka sang kaso sang dengue sa Iloilo.
Philip Ian Padilla, Assitant to the Director sang Philippine Genome Center in Diliman, iya ginpahayag nga dapat wala sang stagnant water ang mga ugsaran agud nga ini mangin breeding ground sang lamok.
Suno kay Padilla, mas gina-prefer sang lamok nga magpangitlog sa mas matinlo nga tubig, baliskad sa mga ginapahayag nga nagadamo sila sa mahigko nga tubig.
Ginpahayag man sini nga paborito gid sang mga lamok nga itlogan amo ang fresh rain water ukon tubig-ulan.
Gintumod man sang natungdan nga sekyaron gid ang mga basura sa palibot nga makakolekta sang tubig agud nga indi na indi pagpangitlogan sang lamok.
Lakip na diri ang mga bukas nga lata, royda, kag mga flower vase.
Dengue outbreak,gindeklarar na sa Iloilo
ILOILO CITY- Nagdeklarar na sang dengue outbreak ang Iloilo bangud sa nagataas nga kaso sang balatian.
Rodney Labis, Chief sang Health Service Delivery Division sang Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga nag-lab-ot na sa 4, 595 ang kaso sang dengue sa Iloilo subong nga tuig kun sa diin 10 na ang napatay.
Suno kay Labis , sa bilog nga Western Visayas, ang Iloilo ang may pinakamadamo nga kaso sang dengue kun sa diin nagtimbuok na ini sa 320% gikan sa narekord nga kaso sang 2023 nga yara lang sa 1,095.
Dugang niya, ginahulat na lang sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang deklarasyon sang duha ukon masobra pa nga local government unit sang state of calamity agud makadeklarar na sang province-wide nga state of calamity.
Base naman sa record sang Provincial Health Office, sa 10 ka napatay, 2 ang halin sa Miagao, 2 sa Badiangan, samtang may tag-isa naman sa Lambunao,Dingle, Igbaras, Barotac Nuevo, Banate kag Passi City.
Iloilo PHO, nagpaandam angot sa posible nga pagtaas sang kaso sang leptospirosis subong nga tig-ululan
ILOILO CITY- Ginapanan-aw sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office (IPHO) ang pagtaas sang kaso sang leptospirosis subong nga tig-ululan.
Maria Socorro Colmenares-Quiñon, pinuno sang amo nga opisina, iya ginpahayag nga ang mamunog nga ulan kag pagbaha amo ang nagapalala sang paglapta sang leptospirosis.
Panugyan ni Quiñon sa publiko nga magsuksok sang protective gear kaangay sang boots ilabi na kun magtapak sa baha.
Base sa data sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, humalin sang Enero tubtob Hunyo, may yara na sang 50 ka kaso sang leptospirosis apang mas manubo ini sang 60% kun ipaanggid sa 125 ka kaso sang amo man nga period sang 2023.
Nagapanguna sa may pinakamataas nga kaso sang balatian amo ang Leon nga may apat, ginasundan sang Alimodian, Cabatuan, Calinog, Janiuay, Miagao, Oton kag Tigbauan nga may tag-tatlo ka kaso samtang may tag-duha naman ka kaso sa Igbaras kag Lambunao.
Ang leptospirosis isa ka balatian nga tuga sang bacteria nga makit-an sa tubig nga kontaminado sang ihi kag higko sang ilaga, baka, kanding, kag mangin ido.
Pagkaon sang balunggay, nagabulig sa pag-boost sang sex drive suno sa pagtuon
ILOILO CITY- Nakahibalo ka bala nga yara lang sa palibot sang imo balay ang tanom nga makabulig agud magbaskog pa ang imo sex drive?
Madamo sang mga herbs nga kilala bilang aphrodisiacs nga makapa-enhance sang libido — kag ang moringa ukon balunggay ang isa sa ila.
Base sa animal studies, ang balunggay maka- boost sang testosterone kag makabuhin sang cortisol gani masuportahan gid sini ang imo libido.
Suno sa isa pa ka animal study, ang moringa leaves ang may beneficial effects sa male sexual dysfunction nga bangud sa stress.
Apang gin-athag ni Jones nga kinahanglan pa sang dugan nga pagtuon agud nga makahimo sila sang mapag-on nga conclusions
ILOILO CITY- Plano sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga maglunsar sang pinakauna sini nga border control facilities para sa imported animal kag plant products sa una nga bahin sang 2025, agud malikawan ang pagsulod sang balatian kaangay sang Q fever.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.,ang Cold Examination Facility for Agriculture (CEFA) ang indi lang makabulig likaw sa ano man nga food contamination outbreaks apang makapahagan-hagan man sang smuggling activities nga makahalit sa palangabuhian sang local farmers.
(ICTSI), amo ang magadumala sang cold storage facilities.
Ang una nga lima ka Cold Examination Facility for Agriculture ang magasugod man sang sanitary kag phytosanitary inspection sang animal, fish, plant kag iban nga agricultural outputs.
Pahayag ni Tiu Laurel,sa subong padayon ang pagpatukod sang private contractors sang Cold Examination Facility for Agriculture sa Angat, Bulacan kag ginaproseso man ang equipment procurement agud malab-ot ang operational timeline.
Ang iban nga pasilidad ang ipatukod sa Septyembre 2025 sa Manila, Subic, Davao kag General Santos City.
Paghugas sang pinggan, makapadula sang stress base sa pagtuon
ILOILO CITY- Ano bala ang imo ginahimo agud nga mapakalma ang imo paminsaron gikan sa stress?
Nagapamati ka bala sang music ukon nagalantaw sa telebisyon?
Apang ang pinakamaayo nga pamaagi agud makalma ang paminsaron suno sa pagtuon ni Adam Hanley, doctoral candidate sang College of Education’s Counseling and School Psychology Program sa Florida University, amo ang pagpanghugas sang mga pinggan.
Ini bangud sa resulta sang pagtuon ni Hanley, makapakuha sang stress kag maka pa sangkad sang well-being sang isa ka tawo ang pagpanghugas.
Natukiban ni Hanley nga pinaagi sa pagpanghugas, nagabulig pakalma sang paminsaron ang kabugnaw sang tubig kag ang hamot sang habon.
Magluwas sa pagpakalma sang paminsaron, ang pagpanghugas sang pinggan ang nagapanubo man sang anxiety kag nagalikaw sa pag-angkon sang depresyon.
Gani kun ginasugo ka sang imo iloy nga maghugas sang pinggan… Hep hep!
Maghugas ka na lang sang pinggan kun indi mo gusto nga masing-alan.
Pagka-chismosa, makamamatay suno sa pagtuon
ILOILO CITY- Ikaw bala mahisaon, palahikay kag chismosa nga sahi sang tawo?
Oras na agud nga untaton ninyo ang mga nasambit nga pamatasan bangud ini ang may yara sang makakilibot kag negatibo nga epekto sa lawas.
Santu sa bag-o nga pagtuon sang College of Psychiatric Study of Human Behaviors sang University of Alabama sa Estados Unidos napamatud-an nga ang mga malain nga mga pamatasan kasubong na lang sang pagkamahisa, pagkapalakihay kag pagkachismosa ang mahimu nga tunaan sang seryoso nga mga mental disorder kag mahimu man nga tunaan sang early natural deaths ukon kamatayon.
Suno sa mga eksperto, makakuha sang bastante nga anger kag envy stimuli sa lawas ang isa ka tawo nga nagapakita kag nagabatyag sang nasambit nga mga pamatasan kag ini ang naga-amat-amat kaon sa mga happy stimuli nga makita sa utok kag nagadevelop sa short term depression nga mahimu tunaan sang mas malala nga mga stages sang mental disorders kasubong na lang sang pagka-buang.
Dugang pa sang mga eksperto ang nasambit nga pamatasan ang nagapanubo man sang life span ukon kabuhi sang isa ka tawo bangud sa nagkalain-lain nga stress nga mahimu sini nga mabatyagan.
May kaangtanan diri nagpanugyan ang eksperto nga untatan na ang pagkamahisa, pagkapalahikay kag pagkachismosa bangud ini ang wala sang maayo nga dulot sa ikaayong lawas.
Tuberculosis cases sa Pilipinas, nagtimbuok sa masobra 612,000 sang 2023 —DOH
Ginakaalarma sang Department of Health (DOH) ang nagapanglakaak nga numero sang kaso sang tuberculosis infection sa Pilipinas nga nagdangat sa 612,534 sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno kay Health Secretary Ted Herbosa, sang 2023, naka-rekord ang Pilipinas sang 549 tuberculosis cases sa kada 100,000 nga populasyon ngas mataas ipaanggid sa case notification rate nga 439 cases per 100,000 population sang 2022.
Gin-report man sini nga 10,426 ka mga tawo nga may tuberculosis ang napatay base sa data sang Integrated Tuberculosis Information System.
Apang gin-athag sini nga indi tanan ang napatay direkta bangud sa amo nga infectious disease.
Dugang pa sang tiglikom, indi lamang problema sa ikaayong lawas ang tuberculosis apang nahimo na nga socioeconomic problem bangud naapektuhan sini ang pigado nga mga tawo.
Lakip sa tuyo sang DOH amo nga tapuson ang tuberculosis sa Pilipinas pag-abot sa 2030, apang bangud endemic na ini nga balatian sa Pilipinas, mas tutukan na lang suno sa iya ang pag-angkon sang 100% sang mga may tuberculosis nga ma-diagnose.
Ang ikaduha nga tuyo amo nga mapabulong ang 99% sang mga na-diagnose nga may amo nga balatian.
Kinahanglan man ang prevention sang balatian kag mahimo ini paagi sa bakuna nga maga-guwa sa 2028, ukon mahimo man paagi sa treatment sa family members nga na-expose sa household.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Herbosa nga ginalantaw sini nga kakason ang pangalan sang Pilipinas sa Top 10 list sang mga pungsod nga may pinakamataas nga numero sang kaso sang tuberculosis sa pagtakop sang iya termino sa DOH.
Ang tuberculosis, suno sa World Health Organization (WHO), amo ang makalalaton nga balatian nga masami nagaapekto sa baga kag nagalapta paagi sa hangin ukon kun mag-ubo, magpangatsi, ukon magdupla ang infected nga tawo.
Lakip sa mga sintomas sini amo ang madugay nga pag-ubo, pagpalanakit sa dughan, kakapoy, hilanat, kag pagbuhin sang bug-at.#
Kaso sang leptospirosis sa Iloilo, mas nagtaas sang 140% sang 2023
ILOILO CITY- Nagtaas ang numero sang kaso sang leptospirosis sa probinsya sang Iloilo sa tuig 2023.
Rodney Labis, Chief sang Health Service Delivery Division sang Integrated Provincial Health Office (IPHO), iya ginpahayag nga naka-record ang ahensya sang 385 nga kaso sang leptospirosis sa diin 16 ang napatay.
Suno kay Labis, mas mataas sang 140% ang kaso sang 2023 kung ikumpara sa na-record nga kaso sang 2022 nga naglab-ot lang sa 147.
Ang mga banwa nga may mataas nga kaso base sa ‘per attack rate per 10,000 population’ amo ang Cabatuan, Anilao, Banate, Pototan, Barotac Nuevo, Oton, Santa Barbara, San Miguel, Alimodian kag San Enrique.
Sandig sa data sang Integrated Provincial Health Office, kadam-an sa mga kaso nga nakuha sang mga biktima ang may aktibidad sa pagpanguma kag palayan sa diin kalabanan sa pasyente amo ang mga mangunguma.
Sentineling program, wala pa maumpisahan sa bisan isa ka banwa sa Iloilo
ILOILO CITY- Wala pa sang banwa sa probinsya sang Iloilo ang naka-umpisa sang sentineling program kasunod sang African Swine Fever nga na-eksperyensyahan.
Darel Tabuada, Provincial Veterinarian, iya ginpahayag nga may yara sang gin-set nga timeline ang probinsya sa Oktubre 31 kun sa diin tanan nga banwa nga luyag nga magpatigayon sang programa ang nagakadapat nga magpasa sang mga requirements.
Tabuada, i-endorso ini gilayon sa Department of Agriculture agud nga ma-check ang dokumento kun kwalipikado ang isa ka lugar.
Agud nga ma-qualify para sa sentineling, kinahanglan nga wala na sang outbreak ang isa ka banwa sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw, wala sang may nabilin nga baboy sa barangay, apang kun may yara man, dapat nga ilakip ini sa programa kag i-subject sa surveillance, kinahanglan nga in place man ang biosecurity measure, nagapatigayon sang disinfection sa pagpanguna sang Municipal Agriculture Office kag dapat may yara sila sang African Swine Fever ordinance.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, kada qualified farmer ang makabaton sang tatlo ka mga baboy apang isa anay ang una nga ihatag kag kun maka-survive, dugangan ini sang duha apang kun magpositibo sa African Swine Fever, i-subject ini sa depopulation.
Action on Smoking and Health Philippines, ginaduso ang pag-ban sa vape
ILOILO CITY- Nagapati ang Action on Smoking and Health Philippines kaupod ang Department of Health Region VI nga tion na para ikonsiderar ang pag-ban sang vape.
Maria Encarnita Limpin, Executive Director sang Action on Smoking and Health Philippines, iya ginpahayag nga wala sang klaro nga pagpaathag kag pagtuon nga maayo nga alternative ang paggamit sang vape kun ipaanggid sa sigarilyo.
Limpin, kaangay lang nga malain man ang epekto sini sa lawas sang tawo.
Paathag sang natungdan, nagakadapat nga indi magpatunto ang mga pumuluyo sa kampanya sang mga cigarette companies.
ILOILO CITY- Nagsugod na ang pag roll- out sang bivalent vaccines sa Iloilo City.
May yara sang 268 vials tanan sang vaccines ang nag- abot ukon kabilugan nga 1608 doses bangud ang kada vial ang may anom ka doses.
Ang kada ospital nakabaton sang 10 vials ukon 60 doses sang vaccines.
Samtang ang sobra nga vaccines ang nagkadto sa mga health personnel sa kada health center kag sa mga senior citizens sa pila ka mga barangay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga maayo man ang pagbaton sang mga beneficiaries sang bakuna apang indi siya sigurado kun batunon sang lubos sang publiko kun i-tanyag ini sa ila.
Gin-athag naman sang alakalde nga indi makabakal sang bakuna direkta ang syudad bangud donasyon lang ini sang national government nga ginpangpartida sa kada Local Government Unit.
ILOILO CITY – Ginpatpat sang isa ka public health expert ang mga rason kun ngaa nagabatyag sang tension headache kag migraine ang tawo.
Philip Ian Padilla, iya ginpahayag nga kun nagabatyag sang paghugot kag nagapitik ang ulo, ginatawag ini nga tension headache samtang migraine naman kun mabug-at ang ulo kag may makit-an nga naga igpat-igpat.
Padilla, isa sa mga kumon nga rason sang tension headache amo ang masami nga pag-atubang sa computer.
Ang migraine naman ang masami makuha sa gahod ukon noise pollution kag kun masilawan.
Pahayag sang natungdan, mahimo man nga mangin resulta sang migraine ang huni sang lato-lato.
Ginpaboran man sang health expert ang masami nga mabatian sa mga tawo nga nagalingin ukon nagasakit ang ila nga ulo tungod nagaproblema sa kwarta, bangud suno sa iya, naga-react sa stress ang nervous system kag nagaresulta ini sang tension headache.
Padilla, magpahuway kun ginakapoy ang mata kag lawas agud malikawan ang pagsakit sang ulo samtang kun nagabatyag sang migraine, gilayon nga mag inom sang bulong nga prescribed sang doctor.
Masobra 50% populasyon sang kalibutan, mangin overweight/obese pag-abot sang tuig 2035
ILOILO CITY- Masobra sa katunga sang populasyon sang kalibutan ang mangin overweight ukob obese pag-abot sang tuig 2035, base sa bag-o nga pagtuon.
Ginapanan-aw sang World Obesity Federation’s 2023 atlas nga 51% sang populasyon ukon masobra 4 billion ka tawo ang mangin obese ukon overweight.
Nakit-an nga nagataas ang rates sang obesity partikular sa mga bata sa lower income countries.
Suno kay World Obesity Federation president Louise Baur,maathag nga paandam ini gani kinahanglan nga aktuhan na ini sang mga gobyerno kag mga policymakers agud malikawan nga maglala ang sitwasyon.
Santo sa report, ang childhood obesity ang posible nga magtimbuok sa 208 million sa mga lalaki kag 175 million sa mga babaye sa 2035.
Arthur Defensor Jr., wala ginakonsidera ang pagdeklara sang state of calamity bangud sa mataas nga kaso sang HFMD
Iloilo – Nag-ayo na ang tanan nga kaso sang hand-foot-and-mouth disease nga narekord sang probinsya sang Iloilo humalin sang Enero 1 tubtob Pebrero 11, 2023.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor, Jr., iya ginpahayag nga wala na niya ginakonsidera pa ang pagpaidalom sa probinsya sa State of Calamity bangud fully recovered na ang 1,647 cases.
Defensor, padayon sa gihapon ang mga protocols nga ginahimo sa kada banwa kaangay na lang sa pag-disinfect sang mga pasilidad agud nga indi maglapta ang balatian.
Samtang, nag-ako naman ang gobernador nga indi pa mahimo nga makadeklarar sang probinsya sang state of calamity sa amo nga balatian bangud kulang ini sa pondo.
Buot silingon, naga-ayo man ang pasyente sa sulod sang pito tubtob napulo ka adlaw ilabi na kun manami ang response sang immune system.
Quinon, wala sang may nabaton nga report ang Provincial Health Office nga may yara sang pasyente nga naglapaw sa napulo ka adlaw ang pagsuprer sini sang nasambit nga balatian.
Iloilo City – Ginareklamo sang pila ka mga residente sa syudad sang Iloilo ang huol nga tuga sang ginpatigayon nga pagkay-o ukon maintenance activity sa linya sang tubig sang Metro Pacific Iloilo Water.
Ini matapos ang ginpatuman nga Water Distribution Reconfiguration schedule subong nga adlaw sa pila ka mga lugar sa syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo lakip na ang distrito sang Arevalo, Lapuz, City Proper, La Paz, Mandurriao, kag Jaro, kag amo man ang mga banwa sang Pavia kag Sta.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Vilma Ituriaga, residente sang Barangay Rizal, Lapuz, Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga nabudlayan ini manghakot sang tubig ilabi na nga siya lang ang bilin sa iya panimalay gani ginpakamaayo niya magtipon sang tubig antes pa man ang maintenance activity.
Nahibaluan nga ang paglubog sang tubig kag improvement activties sang mga bulk water suppliers ang rason sang maintenance activity.
Samtang, ginalauman nga ang maintenance activity ang magaresulta sang limitado nga supply sang tubig sa apektado nga mga lugar.
Mga empleyado sang Iloilo City Hall, ginapaidalom sa health screening
Iloilo City – Nagapadayon ang Iloilo City Health Office sang health screening sa mga empleyado sang Iloilo City Hall.
Jay Fortuna, Medical Officer IV sang Iloilo City Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga ang ini nga hilikuton ang nagatuyo nga mahatagan sang pag-ulikid ang mga empleyado nga nagaserbisyo sa syudad.
Suno kay Fortuna, ang ini pamaagi ang isa sa mga palaagyan agud mahibaluan ang family history sang empleyado kun may yara ini sang balatian nga wala pa na-diagnose kaangay sang hypertension kag diabetes.
Ginpahayag sang natungdan, ang ini nga aktibidad ang nag-umpisa sang nagligad pa nga tuig sang 2022 kun sa diin natapos na libot ang mga empleyado sa 5th, 6th kag 7th floor sang Iloilo City Hall.
Sa subong, ini ang masami nga ginpadayon sa 4th floor kag padalom, magabalik ini liwat sa 7th floor ilabi na sa mga empleyado nga wala nagapaidalom sa health screening.
Nahibaluan nga nagahatag man ang amo nga opisina sang bulong kag maintenance sang mga empleyado.
Zarraga, nagdugang sa mga banwa nga ginpaidalom sa red infected zone bangud sa African Swine Fever
Iloilo – Nagdugang ang banwa sang Zarraga, Iloilo sa mga banwa nga ginpaidalom sa red infected zone bangud sa African Swine Fever.
Matandaan nga yara man sa Red Zones ang mga banwa sang Oton, San Miguel, Leganes, New Lucena, Alimodian, Santa Barbara, Mina, Barotac Nuevo, Dumangas, Banate, Janiuay, Barotac Viejo, Dingle, Batad, kag San Dionisio.
Dennis Ventilacion, Iloilo Provincial Administrator, iya ginpahayag nga kaangay sa mga infected nga kabanwahan, may yara man sang igapahamtang nga mga checkpoint sa banwa sang Zarraga kun sa diin hugot nga ginadumilian ang magpasulod kag magpagwa sang baboy sa lugar agud malikawan ang paglapta sang African swine fever.
Nahibaluan nga nalakip sa ginadumilian amo ang buhi nga mga baboy kag pork products kaangay sang fresh/frozen pork products kag uncooked processed pork products.
Nagpanawagan ang natungdan sa publiko nga nagakadapat nga magsunod ang tanan sa health protocols agud malikaw ang paglapta sang african swine fever sa bug-os nga probinsya sang Iloilo.
Probinsya sang Iloilo, ginalauman na ang shortage sang pork meat bangud sa epekto sang ASF
Iloilo – Ginakabig nga problema sa probinsya sang Iloilo ang nagapayon nga pagbuhin sang suplay sang baboy.
Ini matapos nakit-an nga nabuhinan sang 36% ang suplay sini humalin sang Oktubre 2022.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Governor Arthur “Toto” Defensor Jr., iya ginpahayag nga ginatinguhaan sang iya opisina nga mapadasig ang pag-recover sang mga baboy gikan sa African Swine Fever.
Suno kay Defensor, nangin lihuk na sang opisina amo ang pagbulig sa 15 ka mga kabanwahanan sa probinsya sang Iloilo bilang mga lugar kun sa diin pagatukuron ang mga sentinel para sa dugang nga monitoring sang mga baboy kag amo man pagpadamo ukon repopulation sang mga ini.
Nahibaluan nga sa data sang 2021 Philippine Statistics Authority, yara sa Top 4 ang probinsya sang Iloilo sa top hog-producing provinces.
Sa subong, nagapadayon ang kampanya sang kabanwahanan paagi sa prevention containment kag repopulation program sang mga baboy.
I-check man suno kay Defensor kun may mga barangay sa red zone areas nga mahimu na makasagod liwat sang baboy para mabawi ang nadula nga population sang baboy.
Ini matapos ang panawagan sang mga unions kaangay sang mga nurses, ambulance workers, midwives, kag physiotherapists nga pataasan ang sweldo sang mga ini.
Suno kay Bombo Ramil Isogon, International Correspondent sa United Kingdom, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang pinakadako nga health strike bangud lakip diri ang masobra 300,000 nga mga healthcare workers.
Matandaan nga nagpanawagan ang Royal College of Nursing sa gobyerno nga pataasan ang sweldo sang mga healthcare workers sa 19%.
Gin-ako naman sang gobyerno sang United Kingdom, indi ini makasarang nga pataason ang sweldo bangud masami ini nga ginadesisyunan sang independent pay review bodies.
Ginalauman nga magalawig ang protesta tubtob sa Pebrero 24.
Proper sanitation kag personal hygiene, dapat nga i-obserba sa mga eskwelahan -DepEd Region 6
Iloilo – Nagpanugyan ang Department of Education sa mga estudyante nga mag-obserba sang proper sanitation kag personal hygiene kadungan sang padayon nga pagtaas sang kaso sang hand, foot, and mouth disease sa Probinsya sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Leonil Salvilla, spokesperson sang Department of Education, Schools Division of Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga nakipag-angot na sila sa mga local government kag rural health units sang mga kabanwahanan nga apektado sang amo nga balatian agud matapna ang paglaton sini.
Suno kay Salvilla, lapnagon ang kaso sang nasambit nga balatian sa banwa sang Tubungan, San Dionisio, Tigbauan, kag Pavia, Iloilo.
Matandaan nga sa data nga ginpagwa sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, may ara sang 224 nga kaso halin sang Enero 1 tubtob 21 sang hand, foot, and mouth diseases.
Suno sa natungdan, wala sang dapat kabalak-an ang mga estudyante bangud may mga intervention ang Department of Education agud masolbar ang problema paagi sa pag-shift sa distance learning method nga sarang ginhimo sang ahensya sa tunga sang pandemya.
39 bilang pamaagi agud malagas sa gihapon sang mga estudyante ang ila mga leksyon kag indi makalaton sang kaangay nga estudyante.
ILOILO CITY – Wala sang may ginapili nga edad ang asthma kun mag-atake sa tawo.
Ang asthma ang naga-apekto sa baga sang tawo kag mangin sa alagyan sang hangin pakadto sa baga.
Philip Ian Padilla, bata man ukon tigulang, mahimo gid nga maka-angkon sang asthma.
Masami nga mabatyagan sang asthmatic person amo ang pagkapin-ot sang dughan, mabudlay magginhawa kag may mabatian nga nagahuni.
Ini ang indi na madula kag nagatinir na sa lawas sang tawo.
Agud nga malikawan ini, dapat nga indi ma-expose sa mga allergen ukon sa mga nagapanigarilyo, sa yab-ok kag sa balahibo sang sapat.
Ang pinakamalala nga lebel sini amo nga indi na makaginhawa ang tawo, nagakalipong kag kinahanglan na nga dal-on sa ospital.
Sa tion nga mag-atake ini, may yara sang inhaler kag may yara man sang bulong para na sa mga delikado nga sitwasyon.
Magluwas sa exposure sa allergen, mahimo man ini nga mapanubli halin sa pamilya.
Kaso sang dengue sa Antique, naglapaw na sa 2000
ILOILO CITY- Nagsaka pa sa 2011 ang narecord nga kaso sang dengue hemorrhagic fever sa probinsya sang Antique base sa record humalin Enero 1 tubtob Hulyo 30, 2022.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Irene Duldoco, Health Education and Promotion Officer II sang Antique Provincial Health Office(PHO), iya ginpahayag nga subong lang nga semana,112 ang nagdugang nga kaso.
Apang suno kay Duldoco, amat-amat man nga naganubo ang numero sang pasyente nga may dengue kada semana.
Naglab-ot naman sa walo ang napatay bangud sa amo nga balatian.
As of August 3 nga data, yara sa 24 naman ang admitted sa hospital.
Dugang ni Duldoco, ang 2011 ka kaso ang tuman naman ka taas kun ipaanggid sa 263 nga narecord sa pareho man nga period sang 2021.
Nahibaluan nga ginpaidalom na sa state of calamity ang Antique bangud sa nagatimbuok nga kaso sang dengue.
WHO, nagpanugyan nga buhinan ang numero sang sexual partners sa tunga sang pagtimbuok sang monkeypox cases
Nagpanawagan ang World Health Organization (WHO) sa mga lalaki nga nagapakighilawas man sa kaangay nga lalaki nga limitahan ang ila nga sexual partners.
Ini ang sa tunga sang nakit-an nga pagdamo sang kaso sang monkeypox, ang balatian nga na-deklarar na sang nagligad nga semana bilang global health emergency.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang WHO nga ang pinakaapektado sang sini nga virus amo ang mga lalaki nga nagapakighilawas man sa lalaki.
Suno kay WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, ang pinaka-maayo nga paagi agud malikawan ang infection amo nga buhinan ang risgo sang exposure.
Lakip man sa ginpanugyan sang WHO amo ang pag-bayluhanay sang contact details sa bag-o nga mga partner agud nga ma-follow up pananglitan nga may matabo gid man nga infection.
Suno kay Tedros, masobra na sa 18,000 cases sang monkeypox ang na-report sa WHO halin sa 78 ka mga pungsod, 70 percent sang cases ang na-report sa Europe kag 25 percent sa Americas.
Lima na ang patay halin sang outbreak sang Mayo, kag yara sa 10% sa infected ang ginpangdala gid sa ospital.
98% sang mga kaso ang natabo sa mga lalaki nga nakapakighilawas sa kaangay nga lalaki.
May pagtuon man nga nabalhag sa New England Journal of Medicine sang nagligad nga semana nga nagapakita nga 98 percent sang infected people amo ang gay or bisexual men, kag 95 percent sang cases ang nalaton paagi sa sexual activity.
Apisar sini nga mga pagtuon, may mga eksperto man nga nagpahayag nga indi ma-label nga sexually transmitted infection (STI) ini nga balatian.
Mahimo nga mangin epidemic ang Marburg virus disease (MVD) suno sa World Health Organization (WHO) kag madasig nga maglapta kun indi gilayon matapna.
Agusto sang nagligad nga tuig sang nag-report ang Ministry of Health of Guinea nga kumpirmado nga kaso sini nga balatian — lalaki nga may hilanat, may sakit sa ulo, may fatigue, kag abdominal pain kag gingival hemorrhage.
Napatay ang amo nga pasyente sang Agusto 2 — eksakto isa ka semana matapos ini nagpakita sang sintomas nga amo naman ang nagtulod sa public health care facility nga hingyuon sa Guéckédou’s prefectorial health department nga mag-imbestigar.
Sunod nga nagtipon ang Ministry of Health sang post-mortem oral swab sample, ginpatigayon ang real-time PCR, kag nakumpirma nga positibo ang pasyente sa MVD kag negative sa Ebola virus disease (EVD).
Suno naman sa Department of Health (DOH) sa Pilipinas, sa subong, manubo pa kun kabigon nga pamahog ukon risgo sa pungsod ini nga balatian, apang posible gihapon ini nga makalab-ot sa Pilipinas rason nga dapat bantayan ang borders sang pungsod kag dapat nga maghalong.
Ini bangud ginakabig nga severe disease ang MVD (kilala anay bilang Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever) kag makamamatay bangud nagatuga ini sang malala nga viral hemorrhagic fever kun ma-infect ang isa ka tawo.
Halos isa ka tuig matapos nga nakumpirma sa Guinea ang una nga MVD case, nagkumpirma man ang Ghana nga may duha ka kaso sang amo nga balatian sa pungsod kag pareho man nga napatay.
Suno sa WHO, nagikan ang mga pasyente sa Ashanti region, kag pareho nga may sintomas kaangay sang diarrhea, fever, nausea kag pagsuka antes sila napatay sa ospital.
Suno sa Ghana Health Service (GHS), nagahimo na ini sang nagakaigu nga mga tikang agud nga matapna ang balatian.
Naka-isolate subong ang 98 ka identified contacts sang duha ka MVD patients.
Wala pa sang bisan isa sa ila ang nakitaan sang sintomas.
Antes sini, may na-report man nga outbreak sa Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, South Africa, kag Uganda.
Ang outbreak sa Angola sang 2004 tubtub sang 2005 ang nangin rason sang kamatayon sang 227 ka mga tawo.
Makabig nga “highly virulent disease” ang MVD nga nagatuga sang hemorrhagic fever.
Suno sa WHO, nalakip ini nga virus sa family sang virus nga nagatuga sang Ebola.
Una nga naangot ini nga outbreak sa laboratory work nga nagagamit sang African green monkey (Cercopithecus aethiops) nga na-import halin sa Uganda.
Sang 2008, na-detect ini nga virus sa duha ka travelers nga nagbisita sa kweba kun sa diin nagaistar ang Rousettus bat colonies sa Uganda.
Kun ma-expose ang tawo sa mines ukon sa mga kweba kun sa diin may Rousettus bat colonies kag kun ma-infect na ini sang virus, mahimo nga maglapta ang MVD kun may direct contact sa mga masunod:
– Organs ukon iban pa nga bodily fluids sang infected nga tawo
– Materials kangay sang bedding kag bayo nga contaminated sang bodily fluids sang infected nga tawo
Ang Rousettus aegyptiacus, fruit bats sang Pteropodidae family, amo ang ginakabig nga natural hosts sang virus nga nagalaton sa tawo
Ang health workers amo ang masami nga nagaka-infect kun ginabulong ang pasyente nga gina-suspetsuhan ukon kumpirmado nga may MVD.
Matabo ini kun naga-close contact sa pasyente kag kun wala ginasunod ang infection control precautions.
Ang sintomas amo ang hilanat, pagpalanglamig, kag muscle pains.
Kun makaumpisa na sa pagpakita ang sintomas, mahimo naman nga magsunod ang rashes sa dughan, likod, kag sa tiyan.
Sa Angola, out of 252 cases, 227 ang napatay.
Ginpahayag man sang WHO nga mabudlay nga i-clinically distinguish ang MVD halin sa iban nga infectious diseases kaangay sang malaria, typhoid fever, shigellosis, meningitis, kag iban pa nga viral hemorrhagic fevers.
Wala pa sang bakuna ukon antiviral treatments nga naaprubahan para sa MVD suno sa WHO.
Allergic rhinitis, mahimo nga ma-acquire sang bisan sin-o
ILOILO CITY – Ang allergic rhinitis ang isa ka kondisyon kun sa diin, ang lining sang ilong ukon mucos membrane ang nagabanog bangud sang inflammation nga resulta sang exposure sa allergen.
Ang allergen ang wala sang malain nga epekto sa ikaayong lawas apang suno kay Dr.
Ivy June Minerva-Soriano, isa ka pediatrician, ini ang nagatuga sang indi mapaktan nga reaction sa lawas ang indibidwal nga sensitibo pareho sang pag-develop sang allergy.
Bangud sini, ang mga cells sang immune system nga naga-produce sang chemical ukon protein kaangay sang histamine kag leukotrienes.
Ini ang nagadala sang sintomas sang allergy ukon allergic rhinitis kaangay sang pagpangatsi, palangatol sang ilong kag mata kag runny nose.
Soriano, bisan sin-o lang ang mahimo nga maka-angkon sang allergic rhinitis.
Apang mas madako ang risgo sang isa ka bata nga may sulundon nga allergy nagikan sa mga ginikanan.
Ang mga rason sang allergic rhinitis amo ang exposure sa allergens nga yara sa sulod kag sa gwa sang balay kaangay sang dust mites, balahibo sang kuring kag ido, amag, tanga, pollen sang bulak, sa humayan kag nagikan sa hilamon.
Dapat nga likawan ang exposure sa allergen, pag-take sang bulong kag para naman sa mga severe cases, dapat nga mag-undergo sa immunotherapy.
Pag-lift sang state of calamity sa pungsod nga dala sang COVID-19, indi pa posible suno sa Department of Health
ILOILO CITY – Nagpanugyan ang Department of Health (DOH) nga indi pa mahimo nga ma-lift ang state of calamity sa pungsod bangud sang COVID-19.
Suno kay Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire, ang lifting sang state of calamity ang ginadiskusyunan pa sang mga government agencies bangud sang pila ka mga konsiderasyon.
Ang isa sa halimbawa sang operational implication sa tion nga ma-lift na ang state of calamity amo nga indi na mangin epektibo ang emergency use authorization (EUA) sang Covid-19 vaccines sa pungsod.
Gina-assess pa sang DOH ang vaccination coverage partikular na ang mga nakabaton sang booster shots.
Suno kay Vergerie, kinahanglan nga mapataas ang numero sang mga nakabaton na sang booster shots.
Ginakonsiderar man sang DOH ang pagsulod sang bag-o nga mga subvariants sa pungsod.
Ang state of calamity sa pungsod ang magalawig pa tubtob sa Setyembre subong nga tuig.
Tawge, makabulig agud nga malikawan ang cancer
ILOILO CITY – Ang tawge ang manamit nga kan-on ilabi na kun ibutang ini sa vegetable lumpia.
Mahapos ini pangitaon kag mahimo man ini nga matanum sa panimalay.
Arefa Cassoobhoy, isa ka oard-certified internal medicine doctor kag Advisory Board Member sang Medscape Internal Medicine, ang tawgi ang may madamo nga nutrisyon nga madulot sa lawas sang tawo.
Ini ang manggaranon sa vitamin C, protein kag fiber.
Ini man ang nagabulig agud nga malikawan ang mataas nga blood pressure ukon hypertension bangud sang protein content nga ginatawag nga peptides.
Makabulig man ini agud nga malikawan ang cancer bangud ginapahinay sini ang pagtubo sang cancer cells lakip na sa breast cancer, leukemia, kag digestive system cancers.
Nagapanami man ini sang digestive system sang lawas sang tawo.
Bangud sang mataas nga lebel sang antioxidants, makabulig man ang tawge agud nga malikawan ang pag-develop sang common nga mga eye conditions kaangay sang macular degeneration (AMD) kag katarata.
Ginabalanse man sini ang cholesterol kag nagapanubo sang blood fat nga ginatawag nga triglycerides.
Public health expert, nagpaandam batuk sa posible nga leptospirosis outbreak subong nga tig-ululan
ILOILO CITY – Balantayan subong nga tig-ululan ang posible outbreak sang leptospirosis sa pila ka bahin sang probinsya sang Iloilo.
Ini ang halin sa isa ka bacteria nga ginatawag nga leptospira.
Ian Philip Padilla, public health expert, ang ini nga bacterial disease ang sarang nga makuha sang isa ka tawo sa baha sa mga lugar nga may stagnant water kag may presensya sang ihi sang alaga, baka kag iban pa nga sapat pinaagi sa pilas sa diin man nga bahin sang lawas nga makadapat sa sini nga tubig.
Ang leptospirosis ang masami nga naga-igo sa kidney, atay kag renal failure bangud nga nag-contaminate na ang dugo sa kidney sang tawo.
Ang iban pa nga epekto sini amo ang meningitis, respiratory distress kag kamatayon.
Masami man nga indi sa gilayon nga mahibaluan nga may yara na sang leptospirosis bangud nga ginakabig gid lamang tawo nga isa ka hilanat.
Diri sa Western Visayas, basi sa pagtuon, madamo sang farm animals nga contaminated sang sini nga bacterial disease.
Masami sang mga gina-igo sini amo ang mga kalalakinhan bangud sila ang masami nga nagatrabaho sa uma.
Padilla, dapat nga magsuksok sang butas ang mga mangunguma kag likawan sang mga kabataan ang pag-ubog sa mga baha.
Mga napatay sa Western Visayas bangud sang dengue, nagdangat na sa 19
ILOILO CITY – Nagdangat sa 19 ka persona sa Western Visayas ang nagtaliwan bangud sang dengue subong nga tuig.
Bea Camille Natalaray, Non-Communicable Diseases Prevention Program kag spokesperson sang Department of Health (DOH)- VI, iya ginpahayag nga as of May 14, may yara na sang 19 ka mga nagkalamatay sa rehiyon bangud sang dengue.
Sa kabug-usan, may yara sang 1,355 nga kaso sang dengue sa rehiyon kun sa diin, nagdangat sa 75% ang pagsaka kun ikumpara sa amo man nga period sang nagligad nga tuig nga may yara gid lamang sang 775.
Suno kay Natalaray, ang Negros Occidental ang may yara sang pinakadamo nga kaso sang dengue nga naglab-ot sa 518 nga may lima ka nagkalamatay.
Ang Antique ang nagapangaduha nga may yara sang 316 nga kaso kun sa diin, duha ang patay.
Nagapangatlo ang probinsya sang Iloilo nga may yara sang 222 kag anum diri ang nagkalamatay nga ginasundan sang Bacolod City nga may 121 ka kaso kag apat ang napatay.
Samtang, yari ang data sa iban pa nga probinsya: sa Capiz, may 86 ka kaso; Aklan kag Iloilo City nga may lunsay 39 ka kaso kag isa ka patay kag sa Guimaras nga may 14 ka kaso kag wala sang napatay.
Bangud sini, nagpanugyan si Natalaray sa mga local government units (LGU) sa anum ka mga probinsya kag duha ka highly urbanized cities sa rehiyon nga magdoble pa sang ila anti-dengue campaign.
Ginkumpirma sang United Kingdom nga may nagakatabo na nga local ukon community transmission sang monkeypox virus sa amo nga pungsod.
Ini apisar nga ang recorded nga kaso sa amo nga pungsod ang wala man sang travel history sa West Africa kun sa diin endemic ang nasambit nga balatian.
Suno pa sa UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA), i-release subong nga adlaw sang Lunes ang dugang nga numero sang kaso matapos nga naka-record ini sang 20 ka kaso sang Byernes.
Ginpahayag naman ni UKHSA chief medical adviser Susan Hopkins nga nagaka-detect ang dugang nga mga kaso kada adlaw.
Wala ginkumpirma ang report kun may indibidwal nga ginapaidalom subong sa intensive care; apang gin-athag nga concentrated subong ang outbreak sa urban areas, kag concentrated sa gay ukon bisexual men.
Apisar ginpahayag nga manubo pa ang risgo sa general population, gin-abisuhan ang mga tawo nga mangin alerto.
Makalaton ang monkeypox paagi sa contact sa skin lesions kag droplets sang contaminated person, amo man kun may gina-share nga mga items kaangay sang bedding kag towels.
Lakip sa sintomas amo ang hilanat, pagpalanakit sang lawas, pagpalangurog, pagbatyag sang kakapoy, swollen glands, kag rashes sa kamot kag nawong nga daw sulalob.
Pagtuhaw liwat sang monkeypox, ginaimbestigahan na sang mga health experts
ILOILO CITY- Padayon pa ang imbestigasyon sang mga health experts sa pagtuhaw liwat sang monkeypox sa pila ka European countries kaangay sang Italy, Sweden, Spain, Portugal kag United Kingdom kag amo man sa US, Canada kag Australia.
May bag-o nga kaso man nga nareport sa Belgium, France, Australia kag Germany.
Philip Ian Padilla, isa ka public health expert, iya ginpahayag nga ang monkeypox isa ka rare viral infection nga masami nga mild kag naga-rekober ang pasyente sa sulod sang pila ka semana.
Suno kay Padilla, ini nga virus ang wala nagalapta sang dali-dali kag ang risgo sa mas madamo nga tawo ang tuman ka manubo.
Pahayag ni Padilla, wala pa sang specific nga bakuna para sa monkeypox, apang ang isa ka smallpox vaccine ang nagatanyag sang 85% protection bangud nga halos pareho lang ang duha ka viruses.
Nahibaluan nga ang una nga kaso sang siyam ka confirmed cases sa UK ang na- report sang Mayo paagi sa pasyente nga nagbyahe sa Nigeria, kun sa diin ginapatihan nga nakuha nila ang virus bag-o sila nagbalik sa England.
Sa bahin sang Australia, na-detect ang una nga kaso sa lalaki nga nagmasakit kasunod sang iya byahe padulong sa UK.
Sa North America, ginkumpirma sang health authorities sa US state of Massachusetts nga isa ka lalaki ang na-infect matapos nagbyahe sa Canada apang yara na ini sa hilway nga kahimtangan.
Monkeypox: Paano ka malatnan, kag ano ang mga sintomas?
May na-report na nga mga kaso sang monkeypox sa United Kingdom, Espanya, Portugal, Italya, kag Estados Unidos subong nga semana — isa ka makabig rare occurrence sang virus nga na-rekord lang anay sa central kag western Africa.
Gin-report sang US ang una nga monkeypox case subong nga tuig sang nagligad lang nga Myerkules.
Ang una nga kaso amo ang lalaki sa Massachusetts.
Nagpahayag man ang New York City’s health department nga may posible nga kaso man nga ginasundan subong.
Sa U.K., siyam ka mga kaso ang nareport halin sang Mayo.
May isa sa Italya, 14 sa Portugal, pito sa Spain kag may 22 ka suspected cases.
Nadiskubrehan ini sang scientists sa laboratory monkeys sang 1958.
Ang first monkeypox case sa tawo ang na-diagnose sang 1970.
Halin sang amo nga tion, na-rekord kag nag-concentrate ini nga infection sa Democratic Republic of the Congo kag sa Nigeria.
Ang sahi sang monkeypox nga natumod sang damlag lang sa U.S.
kag sa European countries ang ginalaragway nga “milder disease” ipaanggid sa iban nga common branch sang virus.
Makuha sang tawo ang monkeypox paagi sa mga sapat — posible paagi sa kagat ukon scratches.
Pwede ini nga malaton sang tawo sa isa pa ka tawo paagi sa exchange sang large respiratory droplets kun nagakadugayan ang face-to-face contact.
Pwede man nga ma-expose ang tawo sa direct contact sa bodily fluids ukon contaminated items kaangay sang panapton ukon bedding.
Ang newly identified cases sa Europe ang na-rekord sa mga lalaki nga nakapakighilawas sa kaangay nga lalaki, apang ginapahayag nga ang monkeypox ang indi makabig nga sexually transmitted infection.
Masami nga lima tubtub 21 ka adlaw ang ginalawig antes nga makit-an ang mga sintomas sang monkeypox.
Lakip sa mga initial symptoms amo ang mataas nga temperatura sang lawas, pagpalanakit sang ulo kag likod, muscle aches, swollen glands, pagpalangurog kag pagbatyag sang kakapoy.
Magatuhaw ang rashes isa tubtub lima ka adlaw pagkatapos sang una nga tion nga nakit-an ang sintomas.
Nagaumpisa ang rashes sa nawong kag nagalapta sa iban nga bahin sang lawas.
Ginapahayag nga nagalawig ang sintomas sa sulod sang duha tubtub apat ka semana, apang may pila ka tawo nga nagakinahanglan gid sang hospital treatment.##
Department of Budget and Management, gin-release na P1.081-billion nga pondo sa Department of Health (DOH) para sa compensation sang mga healhcare workers nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 samtang nga nagatrabaho
ILOILO CITY – Gin-release na sang Department of Budget and Management (DBM) ang P1.081-billion nga pondo sa Department of Health (DOH) para sa compensation sang mga healhcare workers nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 samtang nga nagatrabaho.
Ang mga healthcare workers nga magpositibo sa COVID-19 ang mahimo man makabaton sang nasambit nga benepisyo.
Ang mga healthcare workers kag non-healthcare workers nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 nga gin-categorize bilang mild kag moderate ang makabaton sang P15,000 nga compensation samtang ang mga severe ukon critical cases ang makabaton sang P100,000..
Ang pamilya naman sang health personnel nga napatay bangud sang COVID-19 samtang nga nagatrabaho ang makabaton sang P1 million.
Mga kabataan, nagasuprer man sang depression
ILOILO CITY – Ang depression ang isa ka alarming nga sitwasyon sang isa ka tawo.
Ang iban nga mga indibidwal ang naga-utas sang ila kabuhi bangud sini.
Masami naton mabatian nga ang nagaka-depress amo ang mga hamtong na.
Apang, bisan ang mga kabataan ang naga-suprer man sini.
Japhet Fernandez- Deleon, chair sang Department of Psychiatry sa West Visayas State University Medical Center (WVSU-MC), iya ginpahayag nga ang bata nga nagasuprer sang depression ang nakabatyag sang madugay na nga kasubo.
Bangud sini, nabatyagan sang bata nga naga-isahanon siya, nadulaan na sang paglaum kag daw kaangay nga wala na siya sang pulos.
Ang ini nga wala untat nga kasubo ang maka-apekto sa interes sang bata sa adlaw-adlaw niya nga aktibidad, ulubrahon sa eskwelahan kag mangin ang pagpakig-abyan niya kag ang kabuhi sang tagsa ka myembro sang pamilya.
Indi matumod ang ginhalinan sang childhood depression.
Yari ang pila ka mga sintomas sang childhood depression:
-nagataas ukon naganubo ang gana sang pagkaon sang bata -indi makatulog ukon nasobrahan sang tulog -masami nga nasubuan -nabudlayan nga mag-concentrate sang mga bagay -masami nga ginakapoy kag maluya -nagabatyag nga wala sang pulos ukon masami nga naga-konsensya -impaired thinking -sensitive sa rejection -madali nga maakig -nadulaan sang interes sa mga hilig -nagareklamo nga may masakit sa iya apang indi man magpabulong -wala na nagapasakop sa mga aktibidad sa eskwelahan ukon sa panimalay -nagapanundom nga mag-utas sang kabuhi, kag -masami nga nagahibi.
Deleon, indi man tanan nga sintomas ang makita sa bata agud nga mahambal nga naga-suprer ini sang depression.
Kun ang bata ang makitaan sang sintomas sa sulod na sang duha ka semana, kinahanglan na nga magpangayo sang bulig sang doktor.
Ginarekomendar ang pagkonsulta sa doktor nga may specialization sa childhood depression.
Pag-block, pag-unfriend kag pag-unfollow sang abyan kag paryente sa social media bangud sang resulta sang eleksyon, wala ginarekomendar sang isa ka psychiatrist
ILOILO CITY – Madamo na sa aton ang posible nga na-stress bangud sang resulta sang eleksyon subong nga tuig.
Tuman na ka-toxic sang social media kag madamo na ang naguba nga relasyon bangud sini.
Ang iban ang nagalab-ot na sa punto nga mag-block, mag-unfriend kag mag-unfollow sang ila abyan ukon paryente bangud man sang indi pareho nga opinyon.
Apang, suno sa isa ka psychiatrist, oops, stop anay.
Joan Mae Perez-Rifareal sang Department of Psychiatry sa Veterans Memorial Medical Center, natural lang nga mataas ang emosyon sang isa ka tawo kun may ginagyan kag naapektuhan ang thinking brain.
Kung mataas ang emosyon, nagakadula ang logical ukon ang thinking brain ukon ang objectivity sa pagtan-aw sang mga isyu apang dapat nga ipabilin nga bukas ang komunikasyon ilabi na sa social media.
Buot silingon, indi dapat nga mangin judgmental kag mas maayo nga pamatian ang opinyon sang mga abyan.
Suno sa iya, ang maayo nga himuon amo nga i-hide ukon i-mute anay sila.
Mas maayo suno sa doktor nga mangin “friends” kita sa tanan.
Apang ka-Bombo, indi gid mag-share kag magpati sa fake news sa social media agud nga indi man ma-stress ang imo kahagugma.
Paghinay-hinay samtang nagadalagan kag indi maayo nga pagtupa kun maglumpat, mahimo nga tuna-an sang anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) ukon knee sprain
ILOILO CITY – Isa sa mga masami nga knee injuries amo ang anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) sprain ukon tear.
Ang masami nga maka-agum sang ACL injury amo ang mga high demand sports pareho sang soccer, football kag basketball.
Cleff Flores, Orthopedic Specialist, ang ginahalinan sang nasambit nga injury amo ang masunod: hinali nga paglain sang direksyon, hinali nga pagpundo, paghinay-hinay samtang nagadalagan kag indi maayo nga pagtupa kun maglumpat.
Sa tion nga may yara ka sang sini nga injury, may mabatian ka nga “popping” noise kag daw matumba ang imo tuhod.
Ang iban pagid sini nga sintomas amo nga sa sulod sang 24 oras, magahabok ang imo tuhod.
Kung may yara ka sang ACL, mahimo ka nga magpaidalom sa operasyon agud nga mabalik sa normal ang sitwasyon sang imo nga tuhod apang nakadepende ini sa severity sang imo nga injury kag activity level.
Halos katunga sang tanan nga injuries sang anterior cruciate ligament ang nagatuhaw nga nagaguba sang structures sang tuhod kaangay sang articular cartilage, meniscus kag iban nga ligaments.
Sulit-sulit nga strep throat sa kabataan, patimaan sang rheumatic heart disease
ILOILO CITY – Ginpatpat sang isa ka eksperto ang ginhalinan sang rheumatic heart disease.
Catoto, internist-cardiologist sa West Visayas State University Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga ang rheumatic heart disease amo ang kondisyon kun sa diin, ang heart valves ang dalayon na nga naguba bangud sang rheumatic fever.
Ang rheumatic fever ang isa ka inflammatory disease nga mahimo nga maka-apekto sang madamo nga connective tissues ilabi na sa tagipusu-on.
Ang wala na-treat ukon ang wala maayo na-treat nga strep infections ang nagabutang sa isa ka persona sa dako nga risgo.
Ang mga kabataan nga may repeated strep throat infections amo ang may yara sang dako nga risgo sang rheumatic fever kag rheumatic heart disease.
Madamo ang sintoma sang rheumatic fever kag masami nga nagasugod sa una tubtob ika-anum nga semana pagkatapos sang pagpakigbato sa strep throat.
Ang treatment ang nagadepende sa kadaku-on sang damage sa heart valves nga mahimo nga ipaidalom sa surgery agud nga maislan ukon ma-repair ang naguba nga valve.
Bangud nga rheumatic fever ang ginhalinan sang rheumatic heart disease, ang pinakamaayo nga treatment amo nga punggan ang pag-angkon sang rheumatic fever pinaagi sa paggamit sang antibiotics agud nga mabulong ang strep infections.
Medical consultation, nagbalik na sa normal
ILOILO CITY – Nagbalik na sa normal ang sitwasyon sang medical consultation sa Iloilo pagkatapos sang halos duha ka tuig nga nagsirado ang mga clinic kag madamo ang pagsulundan nga ginapatuman sa mga ospital.
Anita Jesena, Oncologist, iya ginpahayag nga sa subong, tuman ka dako sang pagbag-o sang consultation.
Suno kay Jesena, wala na sang may ga upang kaangay sang limitasyon sa numero sang pasyente nga mahimo ma-cater kag indi na kinahanglan ang negatibo nga resulta sang RT-PCR test sa pagpadulong sa mga health facilities.
Dugang pa ni Jesena, apisar nga nagbalik na sa normal ang medical consultation, ginapatuman sa gihapon ang pagsunod sang mga minimum health standards.
Nagpahanumdom naman si Jesena sa publiko nga magpadulong sa gilayon sa doktor sa tion nga may mabatyagan na sa lawas kag indi paghulaton nga maglala na ang sitwasyon.
Sa subong nga naghalog na ang pagsulundan, nagpahanumdom si Jesena nga magsuksok sang mask sang insakto, ipabilin ang katinlo sang lawas kag magkadto sa doktor.
ILOILO CITY- Nagpaandam ang isa ka public health expert may kaangtanan sa paggamit sang molnupiravir bilang oral treatment batok sa COVID-19.
Philip Ian Padilla, Microbiology Professor kag Vice- Chancellor for Academic Affairs sa University of the Philippines (UP) Visayas, iya ginpahayag nga apisar nga may yara ini sang Emergency Use Authorization(EUA) halin sa Food and Drug Administration(FDA), indi pa ini mahimo gamiton sa iban nga COVID-19 patients kaangay sang bata kag nagabusong.
Suno kay Padilla, dapat nga adult lang ang hatagan sini partikular ang mga non-severe COVID-19 patients nga may pinakamataas nga risgo sang hospitalization kaangay sang mga tawo nga wala mahatagan sang COVID-19 vaccination, mga tigulang, nga tawo nga may immunodeficiencies kag mga tawo nga may chronic diseases.
Suno kay Padilla, may yara man ini sang side effect kaangay sang paglingin sang ulo kag diarrhea.
Pahayag niya, base sa clinical studies, may dala ini nga toxicity gani padayon pa ini nga ginatun-an sang maayo.
Ang molnupiravir nga isa ka oral tablet ang ginahatag bilang apat ka tablets sa sulod sang lima ka adlaw.
Napamatud-an man nga kun matumar ini sang temprano matapos ang infection, makabulig ini agud malikawan ang hospitalization.
DOH,nagkabos sa target nga 95% nga fully immunized nga kabataan nga nagaedad 5- anyos panubo
ILOILO CITY- Tinguhaan sang Department of Health nga malagas ang wala nalab-ot nga target nga porsyento sang kabataan nga nagaedad 5 anyos panubo nga ma-fully immunized sang 2021.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Daphynie Teorima, Regional Coordinator sang National Immunization Program, iya ginpahayag nga sa target nga 95%, 64.36 lang ang fully immunized nga kabataan sa bilog nga Pilipinas.
Suno kay Teorima, isa sa mga rason amo ang COVID-19 pandemic nga nagtuga sang disruption sa routine immunization sa pungsod.
Pahayag niya, sa National Vaccination Days sa Abril tubtob Hunyo, positibo sila nga malab-ot ang target sang kabataan nga ma-fully imunized.
Ang National Immunization Program (NIP) ukon kilala man nga Expanded Programme on Immunization amo ang premiere vaccination program sang pungsod nga nagahatag sa kabataan, mga lapsag kag ila iloy, sang access sa routine vaccines nga rekomendado para sa ila edad.
Ini ginalakipan sang bakuna kontra tuberculosis,tetanus, hepatitis, pneumonia, measles kag iban pa.
ILOILO CITY- Siling nila ang pagpanigarilyo, nagapaitom sang lips.
Pero may iban nga wala man nagapanigarilyo apang ngaa itom gihapon ang lips?
Jean Marquez, isa ka Dermatologist, ang dark lips mahimo nga tuga sang maisog nga habon nga ginagamit sa guya.
Bangud manipis ang panit sa lip area, kun ma-expose sa adlaw, nagaitom ini.
Nagpanugyan ang doktor nga maggamit sang mild soap kag lip balm nga may moisturizer kag sun screen agud protektahan ang bibig kag malikawan ang discoloration.
Nagkalain-lain nga mga balita, mahimo makuha sang mga kabataan subong nga summer
ILOILO CITY – Ginsaysay sang isa ka long time pediatrician ang mga masami balatian sang mga kabataan sa tion sang summer.
Emiliana Carmona, iya ginpahayag nga kalabanan sang mga masakit sa kabataan ang nagatukar sa panit.
Suno kay Carmona, ang pila sang mga masami nga balatian sang kabataan amo ang bungang balhas, sun burn kag infection bangud sa paghampang sa mahigko.
Dugang pa ni Carmona, ang pagpaligo sang mga kabataan sa mga swimming pool ang posible nga makatuga sang balatian kag impeksyon sa panit ilabi na kun indi matinlo ang maintenance sang tubig.
Nagpaandam naman si Carmona nga bantayan ang bata nga indi gid mag-inom sa mga posible contaminated nga tubig bangud nga makamamatay ang mahimo epekto sini.
Ang dehydration ang resulta sang problema sang gastroenteritis nga kun indi sa gilayon madala sa ospital, mahimo nga mapatay ang bata.
Pahayag dugang ni Carmona, sa tion nga may makita nga sintomas sang sini nga balatian sa mga kabataan, dapat nga maislan ang fluid nga nabuhin sa lawas sang bata bangud sang dehydration.
Sa subong, may yara na sang ginabaligya nga oral dehydration salt nga mahimo nga ipainom sa bata kun indi sa gilayon nga madala sa ospital.
Nagpaandam naman si Carmona nga dapat taguon sang maayo ang mga gina-inom sang kabataan agud nga malikawan ang impeksyon.
Samtang, bisan ang mga kabataan ang mahimo man nga ma-igo sang heat stroke bangud sang madugay nga exposure sa mainit.
Agud nga malikawan ini, mag-inom sang madamo nga tuig kag indi mag padugay sa initan.
Pag-inom sang juice nga wala pa unod ang tiyan sa aga, ginarekomendar sang dietician
ILOILO CITY- Mahilig ka bala mag-inom sang fresh juice?
Siling sang eksperto, mas maayo ini nga inumon kun wala pa unod ang imo tiyan sa aga.
Suno kay Katherine Zeratsky, isa ka registered dietician, kun wala unod ang tiyan, mas epektibo ang pag-absorb sang vitamins kag nutrients halin sa juice.
Agud mapataas ang nutritional effectiveness sang juice, dapat amat-amaton lang ang pag-inom sini kag indi pagturuson gilayon bangud magaresulta ini sa bloating.
Kun inumon mo ini pila ka beses kada adlaw, siguraduhon nga himuon mo ini at least 20 minutes antes ukon duha ka oras pagkatapos magkaon.
LGU-Banate, solo nga wala sang accomplishment sa dog vaccination sang 2021 sa Iloilo Province
ILOILO CITY- Nagaisahanon ang banwa sang Banate nga wala sang accomplishment sa dog vaccination sang tuig 2021 sa Iloilo.
Darel Tabuada,head sang Provincial Veterinary Office, iya ginpahayag nga wala pa sang paathag ang Local Government Unit sang Banate tuhoy diri.
Apang suno kay Tabuada, posible nga wala sang vaccinators ang banwa gani wala ini nakapangbakuna sa mga ido.
Samtang, nanguna naman sa may pinakadamo nga nabakunahan nga ido amo ang Oton nga may 10,742, ginasundan sang Cabatuan nga may 10,460 kag barotac Viejo nga may 10,118.
Nahibaluan nga P4 million ang ginpain para sa procurement sang bakuna sa mga ido sang 2021 kag 100,000 doses ang ginhatag kada banwa.
Sa pangkabilugan sang 2021, yara sa 49.36% ang vaccine coverage nga may katumbas nga 137,843 ka mga ido.
Mas mataas ini sang masobra 100,000 sa 30,000 nga vaccine coverage sang 2020.
Tambo, nagatunaw sang harmful cholesterol sa lawas–expert
Suno sa pila ka research, ang phytosterols kag phytonutrients sa tambo ang ideal sa pagtunaw sang harmful LDL cholesterol sa lawas.
Ang vitamins kag minerals sa bamboo shoots ang ideal para sa pag- improve sang immune system sang lawas.
Ang antioxidants sa tambo ang essential man sa pagpabaskog sa sulod kag gwa sang lawas.
Suno naman sa research sa Journal of Ethnopharmacology,ang bamboo shoots may yara sang anti-inflammatory kag analgesic (pain-killing) properties.
Pagtinir sa madulom nga lugar,makabulig sa pagbato sa cancer
ILOILO CITY- Nagagwa sa pagtuon nga ang pagtinir sa dulom nagapasanyog sang function sang immune systems.
Nadiskubrehan sang mga scientists nga sa tion lamang nga tuman ang kadulom nga ang lawas sarang mag- produce sang hormone nga ginatawag nga melatonin.
Suno kay Joan Roberts, isa ka photo biologist,ang Melatonin nagabato sa balatian lakip na ang breast kag prostate cancer bangud ginatapna sini ang pagtubo sang cancer cells.
Pahayag niya, kun bisan gamay lang nga suga sa gab-i kun ikaw ang magtulog, nagauntat ang melatonin production.
Paathag ni Roberts, mahimo nga ini ang natural nga pamaagi nga ginhatag sang Mother Nature sa aton bangud kun mapuslanon ang kasanag, mapuslanon man ang kadulom ilabi na sa pagbato sa cancer.
Clinical geneticist, ginpa-athag ang mga komplikasyon upod sang kondisyon nga Down syndrome
ILOILO CITY – Gin-eksplekar sang isa ka clinical geneticist ang down syndrome nga naga-apekto sa physical kag mental development delays kag disabilities.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo sa isa ka clinical geneticist nga si Dr.
Suzzane Marie Barrera, iya ginpahayag nga ang ini nga condition ang nagakatabo kun masobra ang na-develop nga chromosomes sa tion sang reproduction.
Ang down syndrome ang mahimo ma-detect sa ultrasound kag sa iban pagid nga mga tests kag ang iban ang matukiban na lamang sa tion nga mabun-ag na ang bata.
Ang pila sa mga physical features nga nagapakita nga may yara sang nasambit nga kondisyon ang bata amo ang masunod; nagapasaka ang mata, dapa ang ilong, dako ang dila, gamay ang dalunggan kag ulo, magamay ang lawas para sa edad kag magamay man ang tiil kag kamot.
Ang pila ka epekto sini nga kondisyon amo ang impulsive nga batasan sang bata, mahina nga judgment, manubo nga attention span kag mahina nga learning capabilities.
May yara man ini nga epekto sa medical condition sang bata.
Ini ang ginalakipan sang congenital heart disease, pagkabungol, malabo nga mata, leukemia, chronic constipation, dementia, obesity indi maayo nga development sang unto kag Alzheimer’s disease sa tion nga magdako na ang mga ini.
Samtang, yari naman ang mga exercises nga mahimo ma-apply sa mga kabataan nga may down syndrome; pag-enhance sa sensory, socila, self-help, motor skills kag language kag cognitive abilities.
Public health expert, nagpaandam angot sa risgo nga dala sang tuman ka mainit nga panahon
ILOILO CITY- Nagpaandam ang isa ka public health expert angot sa risgo nga dala sang tuman ka mainit nga panahon kadungan sang summer season.
Philip Ian Padilla, Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs sang University of the Philippines Visayas, iya ginpahayag nga bangud sa tuman ka init, madasig ma-dehydrate ang tawo kag kun mapabay-an, ini ang mahimo magresulta sa pagkalipong, heat stroke, kag ang pinakamalala amo ang kamatayon.
Padilla, pila man ka seryoso nga komplikasyon sang dehydration amo ang paghabok sang utok ukon cerebral edema, seizures, low blood volume shock, kidney failure, coma kag kamatayon.
Panugyan ni Padilla,dapat nga likawan ang pagbulad sa idalom sang adlaw sa tunga-tunga sang 12:00 sa udto tubtob 2:00 sa hapon bangud diri masami ang peak sang heat index.
Mas maayo man nga magsuksok sang bayo nga komportable kag indi gid magkalipat sa pag-inom sang madamo nga tubig.
Ubas, hilaw nga kapayas, kag pinya, bawal sa nagabusong
May paandam ang isa ka obstetrician nga si Dr.
Audra Meadows tuhoy sa mga prutas nga dapat mo likawan nga kaunon ilabi na sa imo una nga trimester.
Ang outer skin sang grapes ang manggaranon sa compound nga ginatawag nga resveratrol.Apisar ang scientific research nagakilala sa resveratrol bilang isa ka healthy nutrient, ini ang mahimo nga toxic sa pregnant women bangud mahimo ini mag-react sa disproportionate hormone levels sang isa ka nagabusong nga babaye.Ang pesticides yara man sa panit sang grapes kag ini ang mahimo mag-contribute sa health complications sa fetus.
Bagnas ukon hilaw nga kapayas-ini ang abundant sa latex, nga naga-promote sang early uterine contraction kag mahimo magresulta sa miscarriage ukon pagkahulog sang fetus.
Naga- contain ini sang large amounts sang papain nga ang side effect amo ang posible nga early labor.
Pineapple ukon pinya- ini naga- contain sang bromelain, isa ka enzyme nga naga-tunaw sang protein.
Isa ka side effects sini amo nga nagapahumok ini sa cervix nga mahimo magresulta sa early labor.
Patay bangud sa dengue sa probinsya sang Iloilo, naglab-ot na sa 5
ILOILO CITY – Naglab-ot na sa lima ang napatay sa probinsya sang Iloilo bangud sang dengue hemorrhagic fever.
Jennifer Joy Oñate, Health Education Promotion Officer II sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, ang isa ka dugang nga kaso sa 10th morbidity week amo ang 16-anyos nga lalaki nagikan sa syudad sang Passi.
Suno kay Oñate, dako ang posibilidad nga wala sa gilayon nagpadulong sa ospital ang biktima rason nga napatay.
Sa subong, naglab-ot na sa 87 ang kaso sang dengue sa probinsya kun sa diin, lima dira ang ginbawian sang kabuhi.
Ginalantaw sang PHO nga ang mga nagkalamatay ang wala sa gilayon nagpadulong sa ospital bangud sa kahangawa nga magpositibo sa COVID-19.
Ang banwa sang Igbaras amo ang may yara sang pinakamadamo nga kaso sang dengue sa probinsya.
nga nagapaidalom sa probinsya sa alert level 5 bangud sa madamo nga kaso sang dengue sa probinsya
Iloilo City Veterinary Office, padayon ang pagbakuna sa mga ido sa syudad
ILOILO CITY – Nagapadayon ang vaccination program sang Iloilo City Veterinary Office sa mga ido sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Subong nga tuig, wala pa sang may na-record nga rabies case sa syudad apang pito na ang napatay sa Western Visayas.
Tomas Forteza, Iloilo City veterinarian, iya ginpahayag nga nagnubo ang vaccination rate sang syudad humalin sang nagligad nga tuig bangud sang restriction sang COVID-19 pandemic.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, naglab-ot gid lamang sa 5, 000 nga mga ido ang natigayon nga nabakunahan sang anti-rabies vaccine.
Subong nga tuig, target sang opisina nga makabakuna sa 70% sang dog population sa syudad agud nga malab-ot ang herd immunity.
Magluwas sa vaccination program, may yara man sang ginapatukod nga dog pound sa distrito sang Mandurriao.
Nagpanugyan naman si Forteza sa publiko nga indi mag-adopt sang layaw nga ido bangud nga kun basehan ang ila data, dako ang posibilidad nga positibo ini sa rabies.
Pahayag dugang ni Forteza, kinahanglan nga mangin responsable ang mga tag-iya sang ido kag indi pagpabay-an ang mga ini nga maglagaw.
Nahibaluan nga subong nga bulan, ginapatigayon ang rabies prevention month.
Paggamit sang cotton buds sa pagtinlo sang dulunggan, indi advisable suno sa eksperto
ILOILO CITY – Masami sa aton ang nagagamit sang cotton buds sa pagtinlo sang aton dulunggan pagkatapos magpaligo.
Apang, nakahibalo ka bala nga ang paggamit sang cotton buds ang indi advisable suno sa eksperto?
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Dr.
Carlito Altimo, ENT Specialist, iya ginpahayag nga ang cotton buds ang nagatulod pagid gani sang higko nga magsulod sa imo dalunggan.
Agud nga mangin safe ang pagtinlo sang dalunggan, pahiran gid lamang sang matinlo nga tissue.
Dugang pa ni Altimo, ang aton dalunggan ang may yara sang self cleaning ability.
Gani, ang imo dira nga ginbakal nga cotton buds, isli nalang sang tissue.
Mga menor de-edad sa probinsya sang Iloilo, mahimo na nga makabaton sang 2nd dose sang COVID-19 Vaccine
ILOILO CITY – Mahimo na nga makabaton sang 2nd dose sang COVID-19 vaccine ang mga kabataan nga naga-edad 5-11 anyos matapos nga nag-abot ang re-formulated nga PFizer vaccines sa probinsya sang Iloilo.
Nakabaton ang probinsya sang 25, 000 doses sang bakuna kag nakatigana ini para sa 2nd dose sang sang mga kabataan kag ang nabilin ang i-administer bilang 1st dose.
Socorro Quiñon, head sang Iloilo Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga may yara sang naka-schedule nga bakunahan sang 2nd dose sang nagligad nga semana apang wala sang available nga bakuna.
Dugang pa ni Quiñon, ang probinsya ang nakatigayon nga makabakuna sang 1st dose sa 20, 449 ka mga kabataan.
Nagpanawagan naman si Quiñon sa mga ginikanan nga pabakunahan na ang ila mga kabataan.
Provincial Jeepneys, nagapangabay nga ipabilin nga pahanugutan ang ila pagbyahe sa sulod sang Iloilo City
Nagapangabay ang mga first town provincial jeepneys nga ipabilin nga sila ang pahanugutan nga magbyahe pasulod sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Ini kasunod sang pag-apruba sang Iloilo City Government sang Local Public Transport Route Plan (LPTRP) sang syudad nga amo ang nagresulta sa limitasyon sang byahe sang provincial jeepneys nga tubtob na lang sa perimeter boundaries ukon sa terminals.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Pavia SB Member Pyt Trimañez, chairman sang committe on transportation sang amo nga banwa, iya ginpahayag nga sa lunes magapasar ini sang resolusyon nga naga apelar sa Department of Transporatation (DOTr) kag sa Iloilo City Government nga samtang ginakay-o pa ang ITGSI terminal, pahanugutan sa danay ang pagsulod sa syudad ang mga unit sang jeep nga may byahe Pavia Highway kag Pavia La Paz.
Suno kay Trimañes, 2018 sang ila gindihon ang LPTRP sang banwa sang Pavia kag wala man sang komentar ang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) angut sa ila pagsulod sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Ila na lang ginkakibot nga may gin-utod sa Iloilo City LPTRP.
Gin-disapprove na lang suno sa iya sang LTFRB ang ila municipal LPTRP sang ginaprubahan ang LPTRP sang Iloilo City.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Mr Jeck Conlu, pinuno sang Iloilo City Public Safety and Transportation Management Office (PSTMO), iya ginpahayag nga naghatag naman sila sang suhestyon sa probinsya angut sa ila ginadihon nga LPTRP agud nga gilayon ini nga maaprubahan kag ma-implementar.
Suno kay Conlu, pila ka mga opsyon ang ila ginakonsiderar apang ini ang nakadepende pa sa approval sang Department of Transportation (DOTr).
Ang implementasyon sang LPTRP sang syudad sunod kay Conlu ang indi gulpyada nga ipatuman agud nga mapreparahan man sang mga transport groups.
Dugang pa ni Conlu, ang mga provincial jeepneys nga may overlap route sa mga jeep sa syudad ang indi na gid pagpahanugutan nga magsulod sa Iloilo City bangud apektado man ang byahe sang mga PUVs sa syudad.
Pagligwat sang campaign rules, nagapamatuod nga epektibo ang vaccination program suno sa health expert
ILOILO CITY – Nagapamatuod gid lamang nga epektibo ang bakuna batuk sa COVID-19 kun halug-halugan ang restrictions sa pagpatigayon sang campaign activities suno sa isa ka health expert
Ian Padilla, isa ka health expert, iya ginpahayag nga indi ang pamatuod nga mahimo na nga ipaidalom ang isa ka lugar sa alert level 1 ukon sa alert level 0.
Apang nagpa-andam naman ang eksperto nga magsunod sa gihapon sa mga health protocols.
Gin-ako ni Padilla nga indi mapatuman sang istrikto ang mga protocols bangud indi man mapunggan ang mga pumuluyo nga magkadto sa mga campaign activities.
Re-vaccination, indi pa mapatuman sa pungsod
ILOILO CITY – Indi pa mahimo nga ipatuman sa pungsod Pilipinas ang re-vaccination ukon ang inoculation sang 2nd booster shot sa subong nga tion.
Ang re-vaccination ang ginaduso sang pila ka mga public officials.
Ian Padilla, isa ka health expert, iya ginpahayag nga mahimo indi pa kinahanglan ang 2nd booster sa subong nga mga tion apang sa masunod nga bulan, mahimo naman ini ma-inoculate sa mga health care workers ilabi na sa mga doktor nga pirmi exposed sa mga pasyente nga pulmonary disease.
Dugang pa ni Padilla, indi pa sigurado ang Pilipinas sa amo nga tikang kag mahimo nga wala pa nagdugay ang paglantaw sang status sang epekto sang booster shots.
Ang COVID-19 ang daw kaangay sa flu kun sa diin, kada tuig ang pag-avail sang bakuna.
Indi na bag-o ang implementation sang alert level 0 bangud sa iban nga pungsod, ginapatuman na ini.
Ini ang nangin reaksyon sang isa ka health expert sa plano sang Department of Health (DOH) nga ipaidalom ang pila ka bahin sang pungsod sa alert level 0 bangud sang naganubo nga kaso sang COVID-19.
Philip Ian Padilla, isa ka health expert, iya ginpahayag nga sa idalom sang alert level 0, wala na sang restriction kag indi mandatory ang pagsuksok sang face mask kag daw kaangay sa pre-COVID situation.
Suno kay Padilla, indi na ini bag-o bangud sa iban nga pungsod, wala naman sang restrictions nga ginaptuman.
Indi delikado ang pagpaidalom sa alert level 0 kun insakto ang datos nga nagasulod sa database apang suno kay Padilla, kinahanglan nga tun-an anay sang maayo.
Apang, kung may yara sa gihapon sang unvaccinated sa isa ka setting, mahimo sa gihapon nga mag-mutate ang virus kag malatnan ang mga nabakunahan gani importante gid nga bakunado ang tanan.
ILOILO CITY- Nagaproblema ka bala bangud indi ka makalakat ukon makatindog sang maayo bangud sa arthritis.
Yara na ang nga ilimnon nga pwede mo mainom agud mahagan-hagan ang pagsakit sang imo nga mga kasu-kasuan.
Huo apang dako man ini nga bulig agud indi na magtukar ang imo arthritis.
David Zelman isa ka rheumatologist, ang red wine may yara sang maisog nga anti- inflammatory properties.
Ang pag- inom sang isa tubtob sa duha ka red wine, makalikaw sa pag- develop sang ostheoarthritis kag rheumatoid arthritis.
Samtang ang sobra nga pag- inom sang wine ang makatuga man sang inflammation sang imo mga kasu-kasuan.
ILOILO CITY- Manamit ang langka ilabi na kun luot, pero kun hilaw, perfect man ini ilakot sa baboy kag kadiyos.
Suno sa Dietitian nga si Mira Ilic, ang langka may mas mataas nga vitamins kag minerals kun ipaanggid sa apples, apricots, bananas, kag abukado.
Suno kay Ilic, ang nutrients sa langka mahimo nga magpanubo sang risgo para sa pila ka health issues nga nagalakip sang masunod:
1.High blood pressure- ang potassium sa sini nga tropical fruit ang makabulig panubo sang imo blood pressure agud makalikaw sa heart disease, stroke, kag bone loss.
2.Skin problems- ang mataas nga amounts sang vitamin C sa langka ang makabulig protekta sa panit gikan sa sun damage.
3.Cancer-ang phytonutrients nga makit-an sa langka ang natural compounds nga mahimo may cancer-fighting benefits, kaangay sang paglikaw sang cancer cells nga magporma sa lawas.
Duag sang kwarto, may epekto sa imo modo
ILOILO CITY- Ano bala ang imo paborito nga duag?
Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang color ang maka apekto sang imo nga modo?
Kun nagakabatyag ikaw sang anxiety, kasubo ukon wala sang gana, mahimo nga ini na ang tion nga i-repaint ukon pintahan liwat ang imo nga balay.
Santu sa pagtuon sang American Home Shield, may yara sang correlation ang color kag mood.
Suno sa mga psychologists, ang nagkalain lain nga color combinations ang nagapaguwa sang nagkalain- lain man nga personalidad sang tawo.
Ginapanugyan sa pagtuon nga mas makapasangkad sang modo sang tawo ang mga bright colors ipaanggid sa mga dark colors kaangay sang pula nga nagapataas sang blood pressure kag heart rate.
Apang mas maayo ang duag nga pula kun yara ini sa kusina bangud mas nagapagana ini sa pag kaon.
Ang shades nga blue kag green ang gina abiso sang mga psychologists nga nagakadapat yara sa sulod sang imo kwarto bangud ini ang nagapakalma sa paminsaron sang tawo.
Gani kun ikaw ang magpatindog sang balay ukon luyag mo na nga islan ang color sang pinta sa imo nga kwarto, pilion ang bright colors agud mangin maayo pirme ang imo nga aga.
Tips agud indi magpalanakit ang lawas kun magbugtaw sa aga, hibalua
Pero kun sa imo pagbugtaw, magpalanakit man lang ang imo lawas, basi indi ka na manamian magtulog.
Maglikaw sa pagkaon nga naga-promote sang inflammation.
Pilion mo ang madamo nga utan, prutas, whole grains kag seafood bangud ginapataas sini ang antioxidants nga nagabulig sa pag-reduce sang inflammation.
Likawan ang pagpanigarilyo bangud ang sigarilyo nagapugong sa oxygenated blood nga makalab-ot sa tul-an kag tissues.
Ginalimit man sini ang exchange sang oxygen kag carbon dioxide sa dugo gani naganubo man ang blood quality nga nagaresulta sa mahina nga muscles.
Mag- exercise apang indi mo ini pagpatam-an.
Ang movement naga- lubricate sang joints gani nga makalikaw sa pain kag stiffness.
Apang maghalong bangud ang pag-exercise kun malapit ka na lang magtulog ang mahimo nga magresulta sa insomnia.
Buha sang lubi, makabulig sa anti aging kag makabig nga cancer shield
Nakakaon ka na bala sang bilog nga puti, mahumok nga buha sang lubi?
Nahibaluan niyo bala nga ang buha sang lubi ang mas masustansya kun ipaanggid sa coconut juice?
Suno kay Rabya Jamshed, researcher sa “Marham” Health Care Team sa Pakistan, ang pagkaon sang hilaw nga buha ang may madamo sang health benefits.
Yari ang pila ka maayo nga benepisyo sa pagkaon ang buha sang lubi:
Steady nga pagpaandar sang electric fan samtang nagakatulog, may pila ka malain nga epekto sa lawas?
Madamo sa aton ang indi katulog kun wala sang electric fan.
Iban gusto nga nakasteady pa sa ila ang electric fan kun sila ang nagakatulog.
Apang, base sa mga eksperto may pila ka mga indi manami nga epekto ang ‘steady’ nga pagpaandar sang electric fan kun nagatulog ang isa ka tawo.
Raj Dasgupta, physician specializing sa internal medicine, pulmonology, critical care, kag sleep medicine sa Southern California, wala sang seryoso nga risgo ang paggamit sang electric fan apang pila ka mga tawo ang maka-eksperyensya sang mga ginakabig ‘irritating symptoms’.
Yari ang pila sa indi manami nga epekto sa paggamit sang fan kada gab-i;
Nagakadapat nga ibutang ang electric fan 2 to 3 feet away agud nga maprotektahan kamo sa concentrated airflow.
Importante man nga regular nga tinluan ang fan blades agud masigurado nga indi ini pagtiniran sang yab-uk.
Covid-19 vaccination sa mga bata edad 5-11 anyos sa syudad, probinsya sang Iloilo, subong na nga adlaw
Patigayunon na ang launching sang COVID-19 vaccination sa mga kabataan edad 5-11 anyos sa syudad kag probinsya sang Iloilo subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 14.
Ang cultural center sang West Visayas State University (WVSU) ang isa sa napili nga venues sang probinsya nga mangin simultaneous man sa Aleosan District Hospital sa Alimodian, Iloilo kag sa isa ka mall sa banwa sang Pavia.
Ang syudad sang Iloilo ang may yara man sang simultaneous activities sa separado nga venue.
Kaupod sang syudad ang Philippine Pediatric Society.
Joselito Villaruz, presidente sang WVSU, iya ginpahayag nga preparado ang unibersidad bangud may yara sang dugang nga volunteer doctors magluwas pa nga nagamit naman ini bilang vaccination site sa lain nga age group.
Pfizer vaccine lang ang gamiton sa pagbakuna sa mga bata bangud ini lang ang naka-secure sang emergency use approval nagikan sa Philippine Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
Mas matahaw ini ukon may lower dosage kag lower concentration ipaanggid sa mga ginahatag nga dose sa mga naga-edad 12-17 anyos.
Gin-reformulate ini agud nga masarangan sang lawas sang bata sa age group nga 5-11.
Ginpaathag ni Villaruz nga gintun-an sang maayo ang ini nga mga bakuna, wala ukon minimal lang ang na-note nga adverse reactions, kag makabulig man agud nga makabalik na sa face-to-face classes ang mga kabataan.
Paggamit sang chopsticks samtang nagakaon, nagabulig sa pagpaniwang
Nahiligan mo naman bala nga maggamit sang chopsticks kun ikaw ang magkaon?
Madamo na sa aton ang na impluwensyahan sang Koreans ukon Japanese nga maggamit naman sang chopsticks.
Apang, magluwas nga makalimit ini sa amount sang pagkaon saimo nga baba, ang chopsticks ang may maayo man nga epekto sa aton nga utok.
Suno kay Lijuan Sun, nutritionist sa Clinical Nutrition Research Centre sa Singapore kag base man sa pagtuon nga ginpublish sa Physiology & Behavior, ang chopstick ang maayo para sa coordination training.
Ang pagkaon man sang rice gamit ang chopsticks ang makapanubo sang glycemic response kag makabulig sa weight loss.
Ang paggamit sang chopsticks ang important training para sa lawas kag utok.
Ini nga utensil ang beneficial para sa mga kabataan kag mga tawo nga naga suprir sang neurological trauma.
Samtang, indi lang ang lawas sang tawo ang makabenepisyo sa paggamit sang chopsticks, amu man ang aton nga palibot bangud madamo sa mga ini ang himo sa eco-friendly materials.
Ang mga disposable chopsticks ang human sa 100% biodegradable bamboo.
Pagtulog nga nagatakilid, naga-boost sang brain health
ILOILO CITY- Ano ang paborito mo nga posisyon kun nagatulog?
Suno kay Bill Fish, isa ka certified sleep science coach, ang pagtulog nga nagatakilid ang naga- boost sang brain health.
Ang aton utok naga-benefit gikan sa side sleeping bangud makabulig ini agud tinluan ang lawas sang ginatawag ng interstitial waste gikan sa utok.
Ini nga brain cleanse mahimo nga mag- reduce sang risgo sang pag- develop sang Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, kag iban nga neurological diseases.
Naga-reduce man ini sang heartburn bangud ang tiyan kag ang iya gastric juices ang nagapabilin nga mas manubo sang sa esophagus kun kita ang nagatulog.
Ini nagabulig man sa pag-reduce sang snoring ukon sleep apnea.
Ang pagtulog nga nagatakilid ang nagabulig agud indi mahulog ang dila sa tilaok nga parsyal nga naga- block sang imo airway nga amo amo masami kabangdanan sang paghuragok.
Iloilo Province, indi pa makapangbakuna sa 5-11 anyos bangud sa kulang nga vaccine supply
ILOILO CITY- Indi pa makaumpisa ang Iloilo Provincial Government sa pagpangbakuna sa kabataan nga nagaedad 5-11 anyos.
Ma Socorro Quiñon, pinuno sang Provincial Health Office (PHO), iya ginpahayag nga kulang ang supply sang COVID-19 vaccine nga authorized para sa amo nga age group.
Suno kay Quiñon, sa pagkamatuod, kulang ang suplay sang Pfizer para sa second dose kag wala man sang inughatag para sa first dose.
Ginpahayag ni Quiñon nga ini nga pagpanghangkat sa supply sang Pfizer vaccine ang resulta sang preference sang mga tawo para sa amo nga brand sang bakuna.
Seafarer nga una nga Omicron case sa Iloilo, wala nakasimpon sa iban nga tawo
ILOILO CITY- Ginpasiguro sang barangay council sang Sooc, Arevalo, Iloilo City nga wala nakagwa kag nakasimpon sa iban nga tawo ang seafarer nga labing una nga kaso sang Omicron variant sa Iloilo.
Ini amo ang 46 anyos nga seafarer gikan sa Kenya, residente sang amo nga barangay, kag indi bakunado.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Brgy.
Ricardo Tugado, iya ginpahayag nga humalin sang Disyembre 24 sang nagpauli sa Iloilo City ang seafarer,wala ini nakagwa sa ila balay.
Suno kay Tugado, ginbantayan kag gin-monitor gid sang mga katapo sang Barangay Health Emergency Response Teams (BHERTs) ang amo nga residente.
Pagkaon sang babana, makapabulig likaw sa oral diseases
Sa tunga sang pandemya, nangin conscious na ang kadam-an sa ila nga ikaayong lawas kag kun paano malikawan ang nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian.
Suno sa mga eksperto, simple lang ang pamaagi agud mapabilin nga healthy ang lawas.
Magkaon ka lang adlaw-adlaw sang prutas nga guyabano ukon babana.
Suno kay Rachael Link, registered dietician sa Estados Unidos, ang prutas sang babana, mangin ang dahon sini kag stems ang manggaranon sa fiber, vitamin C, niacin, riboflavin, folate kag iron.
Ini nga mga nutrients ang natukiban nga nagapahinay sa cancer growth kag nagabato sa mga bacteria nga ginatunaan sang mga balatian.
Ang babana ang puno man sang antioxidant properties kag potent antibacterial properties nga nagapalikaw sa oral diseases kag nagapatay sang mga bacteria nga nagatuga sang balatian nga gingivitis, tooth decay kag cholera.
People pleaser nga sahi sang tawo, indi maayo suno sa mga eksperto
Ginakonsidera mo bala ang imo kaugalingon bilang ‘people pleaser?’
Masami ka bala nga nagahambal sang ‘HUO’ sa mga tawo kag sa ulihe ginahinulsulan ini?
Kun ‘HUO’ ang imo sabat, ini na ang tion nga magpang ‘INDI’ agud mabawi ang madamo nga aspeto sang imo kabuhi kag ma-angkon ang masanyog nga ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay Laurie Leinwand, Psychotherapist, Counselor, kag Hypnotherapist sa Estados Unidos, ang pagpang-indi sa mga sitwasyon kag tawo ang isa ka dako nga pagpanghangkat.
Apang suno sa iya, indi dapat ma-gulity ang isa ka indibidwal nga maghambal sang INDI ilabi na kun para ini sa iya ikaayong lawas.
Pahayag ni Leinwand, sa tion nga maghambal ang isa ka indibidwal sang ‘INDI’ gina-reclaim ukon ginabawi sini ang pila ka aspeto sang iya kabuhi kasubong sang iya kumpyansa, oras, kontrol, respeto kag enerhiya.
Yari ang pila ka mga butang nga dapat INDI-an agud mangin healthy:
Dugang pa sang eksperto, ang paghambal sang INDI ang nagabulig sa isa ka indibidwal sa pag-establisar sang healthy boundaries samtang ginamentinar ang relasyon sa iban.
Pag-ulit sa baby, nagapadevelop sang ila self esteem
Kun may makita ka nga baby ukon lapsag, nanamian ka man bala mag-ulit sa ila?
Suno sa mga eksperto, matuod ang mga tinaga nga ‘laughter is the best medicine’ indi lang para sa mga tigulang kundi mangin man sa mga babies gani importante nga gina-ulit sila agud mapasanyog ang ila ikaayong lawas samtang nagadako.
Jeanne Segal, psychological therapist sa Estados Unidos, ang regular nga pagpakadlaw sa mga babies kag toddlers nga naga-edad lima ka-tuig panubo ang nagabulig sa pagpasangkad sang ila nga self-esteem kag creative skills.
Ang pag-ulit sa mga babies ang nagapasanyog man sang ila future resilience kag nagapanubo sang ila anxiety.
Pahayag sang doktor, kun palakadlaw ang isa ka bata, mas nagabaskog ang immunity sini batok sa mga balatian bangud sa endorphins ukon feel good hormones sa ila lawas rason nga mas nagasangkad ang ila gana sa pagkaon kag mas masulhay ang ila nga tulog.
Pagkaon sang itlog sang pugo, mapasanyog ang immunity sang lawas
Kun huo ang imo nga sabat, may simple nga panugyan ang mga eksperto agud nga malikawan ang balatian nga anemia kag mapasanyog ang immunity sang lawas.
Magkaon ka lang sang itlog sang pugo adlaw-adlaw!
Suno kay SaVanna Shoemaker, registered dietician kag nutritionist sa Estados Unidos, ang itlog sang pugo ang manggaranon sa iron content nga nagapalikaw sa balatian nga anemia bangud naga-produce ini sang hemoglobin — isa ka sahi sang protein sa red blood cells nga nagadala sang oxygen halin sa baga tubtob sa nanuhay-tuhay nga bahin sang lawas.
Manggaranon man ang quail eggs ukon itlog sang pugo sa vitamin C kag vitamin A nga nagapasanyog sang immunity kag nagabato sa free radicals — mga toxins sa palibot nga nagaguba sang cells sa lawas sang isa ka indibidwal.
Ang pagkaon sang quail eggs ang nagabulig man sa pagbalanse sang cholesterol bangud 60 percent sang fat sa itlog sang pugo ang makabig nga ”good” form of cholesterol nga nagabulig sa pagpasanyog sang heart health.
Pag-inom sang alabaab nga tubig, nagapabuhin sang anxiety level
Mahilig ka bala mag-inom sang tubig nga may ice?
Malamig ukon maalabaab man ang aton gina-inom nga tubig, nagabulig ini agud nga mapabilin nga hydrated ang aton nga lawas.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, mas bentaha sa ikaayong lawas kun anadon naton ang aton kaugalingon sa pag-inom sang maalabaab nga tubig bangud nagabulig ang warm water sa pag-improve sang digestion, nagapaayo sang nasal congestion, kag naga-promote sang relaxation ipaanggid sa masami nga pag-inom sang malamig nga tubig.
Suno kay Jillian Kubala, registered dietitian sa Westhampton, New York, napamatud-an sa isa ka pagtuon sang 2019 nga ang masami nga pag-inom sang maalabaab nga tubig ang nagaresulta sa pagsanyog sang central nervous system activity kalakip na sang mood.
Ini ang rason suno sa eksperto kun ngaa naganubo ang anxiety levels sang isa ka indibidwal kag nagataas ang iya relaxation levels.
Ang pagsimhot naman sang baho sang mainit ukon maalabaab nga tubig ang makapaayo sang nasal congestion ukon clogged sinuses kag sinuses headache.
20 segundos nga paghakos, pang-forever ang benepisyo
ILOILO CITY- Ang 20 segundos tuman ka dasig lang kag halos wala ikaw siguro sang mahimo sa sulod lang sang sini kalip-ot nga ginutlo sang oras.
Apang tilawi nga hakson ang imo abyan, kahagugma, ukon myembro sang pamilya sa sulod sang 20 segundos bangud dako ang madala sini nga benepisyo.
Suno kay Virginia Satir nga pioneer sa family therapy kag ginakabig nga “mother” sang sini nga specialty, ang paghakos bisan sa sulod lang sang 20 segundos ang makapataas sang levels sang oxytocin ukon ang ginatawag nga love hormone.
Ini nagapanubo man sang blood pressure kag cortisol nga amo ang stress hormone.
Natural, pataason sini ang kalipay nga nabatyagan kag panubuon ang stress.
Kag i-improve man sini ang relationships kag connection sa tunga mo kag sang tawo nga imo ginahakos.
ILOILO CITY- Ang Athlete’s foot isa ka infection nga makatol kag makahatag sang indi komportable nga pamatyagan.
Ang wala untat nga pagkatol sa tunga sang imo mga tudlo sa tiil kag pagmala sa kilid sang tiil ang pila lang sa mga symptoms nga naangot sa kondisyon.
Ang pinaka- common nga causes amo ang direct contact sa infected nga tawo ukon paghikap sa contaminated surface.
Ang fungus ang magatubo sa panit sang tiil kag sa masami, nagasugod sa tunga sang mga tudlo.
Panugyan sang Health Podiatrist nga si Ken P.
Nguyen, kinahanglan nga mala pirmi ang tiil bangud ang fungus ang nanamian gid sa mainit kag basa nga palibot kaangay sang yara sa sulod sang basa nga sapatos.
Bulos-buluson ang sapatos adlaw-adlaw ukon dapat nga mala ini antes suksukon liwat.
Maggamit sang medyas nga human sa breathable material.
Maggamit sang sapatos nga naga-provide sang bastante nga ventilation kag wala naga- constrict sang tiil.
Hugasan adlaw-adlaw ang tiil kag maggamit sang habon kag tubig kag siguraduhon nga magmala ini antes ikaw magsuksok liwat sang medyas kag sapatos.
Pagkaon sang dahon sang kamote, makabulig likaw sa balatian sa tul-an
Halos tanan nga tawo ang nakatilaw sang kamote.
Apang pamilyar ka man bala sa sabor sang dahon sini kag nakahibalo ka bala kun ano kadamo sang benepisyo nga mahatag sini sa ikaayong lawas?
Santo sa pagtuon sa Louisiana State Agricultural Center, ang nasambit nga ”all-season” vegetable ang manggaranon sa vital nutrients kaangay sang Vitamins A, B, C, kag K, B-Carotene, B6, Thiamine, Niacin, Zinc, Riboflavin, Iron, Folic Acid, Calcium, kag Protein.
Puno man sang anti-diabetes properties ang dahon sang kamote kag ini nga diabetic compounds ang makapanubo sang blood glucose content kag nagapalikaw sa balatian nga Diabetes.
Ang Vitamin K sa dahon sang kamote ang nagabulig sa pag-maintain sang calcium sa mga tul-an kag nagapabuhin sa risgo sang pag-angkon sang balatian nga osteoporosis (bone loss) kag nagapanubo man sang incidence sang bone fractures sa post-menopausal women.
Ang duga naman sang dahon sang kamote ang manggaranon sa antibacterial properties.
Paglantaw sang mukbang ukon eating show, nagapataas sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang type 2 diabetes kag heart disease
Nagalantaw ka man bala sang mga bantog nga Mukbang ukon “eating show?”
Sa mukbang, nagapreparar ang mga vlogger sang tuman ka damo nga pagkaon kun sa diin mabatian man ang tunog sang ila pag-usap.
Makalilingaw man ini nga mga eating show apang suno sa mga eksperto, nagakadapat likawan ang masami nga paglantaw sang mukbang bangud dako ang risgo nga mahatag sini sa ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay Sydney Lappe, registered dietician sa Missouri, ang masami nga paglantaw sa mga tawo nga nagakaon sang tuman kadamo ang maka-promote sang overeating kag poor eating habits.
Santo sa pagtuon, sa sulod sang 21 ka adlaw nga paglantaw sang isa ka indibidwal sa mga vlogger nga nagakaon sa atubang sang camera, natukiban nga naga-form sang poor eating habit ang tumalan-aw.
Pahayag sang dietician, dako ang psychological effect sang paglantaw sa mga tawo nga nagakaon sang madamo bangud nagaresulta ini sa pag-overeat sang tumalan-aw gani nagasaka man ang risgo sa pag-angkon sini sang weight-related health kaangay sang type 2 diabetes kag heart disease.
Problema sa basa nga ilok, talong ang solusyon
ILOILO CITY- Masami bala nagabasa ang imo ilok bangud ginabalhas?
Gardner, isa ka dermatologist, ang mga pagkaon nga may low fiber content ang nagapwersa sang imo digestive system nga mag work overtime agud tunawon ang imo pagkaon.
Ang high-sodium diet nagakahulugan nga ang imo lawas ang kinahanglan magdetox sang asin paagi sa balhas kag ang pagkaon nga high in fat ang kabangdanan nga nagainit ang imo lawas samtang ginaproseso sang imo lawas ang fat.
Yari ang mga pagkaon nga dapat mo likawan agud malikawan mo man ang basa pirmi nga ilok- processed foods, ilimnon nga may alkohol, garlic and onions, makahang nga pagkaon kag ice cream.
Yari naman ang ilimnon kag pagkaon nga nagapabuhin sang sweating– tubig, pagkaon nga may high calcium content pareho sang dairy products kag cheese, almonds, bananas,vegetables kag fruits nga may high water content pareho sang watermelon, grapes, broccoli, spinach, cauliflower, bell pepper, kag eggplant.
Pagsimhot sang asin, ginapanugyan sang health experts bangud sa madamo sini nga benepisyo
Ang asin ang isa sa pinakabantog nga panakot sa nanuhay-tuhay nga linuto.
Apang natestingan mo man bala ini nga simhutan?
Alan Carter, clinical pharmacist sa Estados Unidos, aprubado sang Food and Drug Administration (FDA) ang pagsimhut sang asin agud ma-revive ang isa ka indibidwal nga nadulaan sang pangalibutan.
Ini bangud ang baho sang asin ang nagabulig paggwa sang ammonia gas nga nagapakatol sang nasal kag lung membranes kag naga-restore sang senses sang isa ka indibidwal.
Naga-increase man ang respiration kag heart rate sang isa ka indibidwal kun makasimhot ini sang baho sang asin rason nga nagabalik ang consciousness.
Nakaandan naman sang professional athletes ang pagsimhut sang asin antes ang iya hampang ukon training agud mapasanyog ang ila nga performance.
Pahayag sang doktor, ang baho sang asin ang nagahatag sang placebo effect nga nagaresulta sa pagtaas sang kumpyansa rason nga nagabulig ini sa pagsangkad sang performance sang isa ka atleta.
Wala sang side-effects ang long-term ukon short-term use sang pagsimhut sang asin.
Apang suno sa eksperto, nagakadapat nga indi tuman kalapit sa ilong kun magsimhut sang asin agud malikawan man ang pagkaguba sang nasal membranes.
Kabugaw, effective para sa anti-aging suno sa health expert
Sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga pandemya, masami nga nagakabalaka ang kadam-an kun paano mapabilin ang mataas ang immunity agud ma-angkon ang masanyog nga ikaayong-lawas.
Apang wala sang dapat kahangaw-an suno sa mga eksperto bangud nagabulig sa pagpalikaw sa nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian ang simple nga pagkaon sang citrus fruits kaangay sang Pomelo nga puno sang powerful immune-boosting antioxidant.
Suno kay SaVanna Shoemaker, registered dietician kag nutritionist sa Estados Unidos, ang prutas nga Pomelo ukon kabugaw ang manggaranon man sa vitamin C, potassium, protein kag fiber nga nagapalikaw sa cellular damage halin sa harmful compounds nga ginatawag nga free radicals.
Ang kabugaw ang puno man sang lycopene — isa ka anti-inflammatory anti-aging antioxidant nga nagapanami sang supat.
Ang duga naman sang panit kag dahon sang Pomelo ang natukiban nga makapatay sang cancer cells kag nagapalikaw sa paglapta sini sandig sa test-tube studies.
Tantrums sang bata, maayo para sa iya emotional health
ILOILO CITY- Mapati ka kag sa indi, ang temper tantrums ukon pagmaoy sang bata ang importante nga bahin sang ila emotional health kag well-being.
Isa man ini sa pinaka-challenging nga aspeto sang imo pagka-ginikanan,apang isa ini ka butang nga maayo para sa imo kag sa imo bata.
Suno kay Kate Orson, isa ka iloy,parent educator sa Basel, Switzerland, kag author sang Tears Heal: How to Listen to Our Children, ang luha naga- contain sang cortisol nga amo ang stress hormone gani ang paghibi nagapagwa sang stress gikan sa lawas kag kun maobserbahan, ang mga bata nga natapos na sa pagmaoy ang nagakalma man lang.
Suno naman kay Deborah MacNamara, Ph.D., isa ka parent educator, ang tantrums nagabulig sa bata sa pag-angkon sang maayo nga tulog bangud nga napautwas niya ang iya nabatyagan kag indi niya ini madala sa pagtulog.
Ginpahayag naman ni Michelle Pate, parenting instructor kag program manager sang Hand in Hand Parenting sa Oregon, mas madamo nga oras ang mahatag naton sa pagpamati sa ila tantrums samtang yara sa balay, mas gamay nga natago nga emosyon ang ila madala sa tion nga maggwa sa balay kag malikawan nga magmaoy sila sa publiko.
Pag-inom sang duga sang dahon sang bayabas, makabulong sa intense menstrual cramps
Kadam-an sa mga kababainhan ang masami nga nagaeksperyensya sang dysmenorrhea — isa ka sintomas sang menstruation kaangay sang pagsakit sang pus-on.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, ang simple nga pag-inom sang duga sang dahon sang bayabas ang makabulong sa intense menstrual cramps.
Mary Jane Brown, registered dietician sa United Kingdom, sandig sa isa ka pagtuon, adlaw-adlaw nga ginpainom sang 6 milligram sang guava leaf extract ang 197 ka mga babaye nga nagasuprer sang dysmenorrhea kag natukiban nga nakabulong ang duga sang bayabas sa ila ginabatyag nga sakit sa pus-on.
Magluwas diri pahayag ni Brown, nagapa-improve man sang heart health ang dahon sang bayabas bangud manggaranon ini sa antioxidants kag vitamins.
Dugang pa sang dietician, tuman ka bentaha sa ikaayong lawas ang masami nga pag-inom sang tea ukon juice nga himo sa dahon sang bayabas bangud nagapabuhin ini sang bad cholesterol kag nagapanubo sa blood pressure.
Panit sang sandiya, makabulig sa problema sa erectile dysfunction
Ang panit sang sandiya suno sa nutritionist ang mahimo ilakot sa nanuhay-tuhay nga niluto, kag pwede man himuon nga shake ukon juice.
Pagkaon sang tugabang, nagabulig likaw sa pagkurinot sang panit
Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang dahon sang tugabang nga ginalakot sa amo nga niluto ang indi lang makabulong sa nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian kundi makahatag pa sang masanag nga panan-awan?
Stephanie Nicole Nera, isa ka registered pharmacist, ang tugabang ang manggaranon sa Vitamin A kag Vitamin B6 nga nagaproteher sa mga mata kag nagapa-maintain sang good vision.
Ang vitamins E kag C, kag antioxidants sa tugabang ang nagaproteher man batok sa pagkaguba sang cells sa lawas sang isa ka indibidwal.
Ini nga vitamins kag antioxidants ang nagapalikaw sa pagkurinot sang panit kag nagabato sa infections nga nagaresulta sa nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian.
Mataas man ang fiber content sang tugabang nga naga-regulate sang blood sugar kag madasig ini nga nagapabusog gani bentaha ini sa mga nagapabuhin sang kabug-aton.
Magluwas diri, bentaha man sa mga nagabusong ang pagkaon sang tugabang bangud ginapataas sini ang resistance sang iloy kag sang fetus batok sa diabetes-induced oxidative stress.
Pagpahid sang brown sugar sa guya,makabulig likaw sa punggod
ILOILO CITY- Ka-bombo, mahilig ka bala maggamit sang brown sugar bilang pampatam-is sa imo ilimnon ukon sa imo ginahimo nga dessert?
Matuod nga nagahatag ini sang satisfaction sa mga mahilig sa matam-is,apang ari pa gid ang pat-od nga magahatag sa imo sang satisfaction bangud indi lang ini para sa imo tutunlan kag tiyan, kundi sa imo man panit.
Tsippora Shainhouse, isa ka board-certified dermatologist sa Santa Monica, California, ang brown sugar ang kilala nga ginagamit bilang scrub para sa pag-exfoliate sang panit.
Ini ang source saang glycolic acid nga amo ang pinakagamay nga alpha-hydroxy acid (AHA) nga maka-panalupsop sa panit agud pahalugon ang bonds sang skin cells nga naga-promote sang cell growth.
Ang brown sugar isa man ka natural humectant nga nagabulig sa panit agud mangin mahumok kag hydrated.
Ang application sang brown sugar sa panit ang nagapa-lighten sang panit kag nagapadula sang scars.
Nagabulig man ang pagpahid sang brown sugar sa guya agud makalikaw sa pimples.
Avocado leaf tea, sampat agud mabatuan ang asthma kag headache
ILOILO CITY- Madamo sang nanamitan sang prutas nga abukado kag gina-enjoy ang benepisyo sini.
Apang magluwas sa prutas, ang dahon sini ang may tuman man ka damo nga benefits nga mahatag bangud manggaranon ini sa antioxidants kag matigayon ini kun himuon mo ini nga avocado tea paagi sa pagbutang sang dahon sini sa mainit nga tubig.
Ietje Wientarsih, faculty sa Institut Pertanian Bogor sa Indonesa, ang avocado leaves may yara sang compound nga ginatawag nga quercetin nga nagakuha sang free radicals gikan sa imo lawas.
Ang free radicals ang produkto sang naturally-occurring degeneration sa lawas bilang result sang oxygenation.
Ang antioxidants sa abukado ang nagapahinay sang proseso sang pagdevelop sang free radicals gani mas healthier ang lawas.
Ang antioxidants sa avocado leaves makabulig man sa pagpa- relax sang blood vessels.
Nagabulig man ang antioxidants kag phytochemicals sa avocado leaves sa pagtunaw sang fat kag glucose.
Ang phytochemical compounds sa avocado leaves amo ang naga- instill sang relaxation kag calmness sa lawas kag utok.
Ini magaresulta sang paghagan-hagan sang headaches, muscle soreness, kag mangin asthma.
Pagholding hands, ginapanugyan sang mga health experts sa nagabatyag sang depression
Sa tunga sang COVID-19 pandemic, halos ginadumilian na ang Public Display of Affection (PDA) kaangay sang holding hands.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, ”socially acceptable” man nga sahi sang public act of intimacy ang pagkapyotanay sang mga kamot, tuman ka bentaha sa ikaayong lawas kag mahimo ini nga himuon sang bisan sin-o, kag sa bisan ano oras.
Matt Hertenstein, ang pagholding hands ang napamatud-an nga nagapasanyog sang relationships, nagapahagan-hagan sang anxiety, nagapabuhin sang stress kag nagapadula sang pain.
Ini bangud ang epekto sang mainit kag supportive nga hikap pinaagi sa holding hands ang nagapabuhin sang stress hormone cortisol, nagapanubo sang blood pressure kag nagapahinay sang heart rates.
Essential man suno sa doktor ang human touch bangud santo sa mga pagtuon, prone sa mental health issues kaangay sang depression kag anxiety ang mga indibidwal nga wala gid nakaagi holding hands, ukon bisan nakahakos sa iya abyan ukon pamilya.
Dugang pa niya, sa tion nga magholding hands and duha ka indibidwal, naga-release man ang lawas sang ”cuddle hormone” nga oxytocin kag serotonin nga amo ang nagapabuhin sang pain.
Lung malignancy sa mga kabataan aton hibaluon
Isa sa importante nga senyales agud mahibaluan nga may bukol na sa baga sang bata amo ang kulani ukon lymph node nga mahikapan sa liog.
Trixy Chu, pediatric oncologist, iya ginpahayag nga indi dapat maglapaw sa 2 centimeters ang kadakuon sang bukol bangud mahimo ini nga malignancy ukon cancer.
Tumalagsahon lamang ang lung malignancy sa mga kabataan apang kumon nga makita sa ila amo ang lymphoma nga isa sa anom nga ginkilala sang World Health Organization bilang “treatable cancers”.
Ang bukol nga makit-an sa bata ang indi na kumon bangud sa cancer biology, may yara ang tanan nga tawo sang cancer suppresor genes sa lawas nga amo ang nagapugong agud indi mag-form ang cancer.
Isa ka area nga delikado man kun may yara sang magtubo nga bukol sa baga suno kay Dr.
Chu amo ang abaga sa diin kinahanglan na nga magdangop sa espesyalista agud nga evaluate kag ma-assess ang pasyente.
Pahayag niya, kun timprano pa gindala sa espesyalista ang bata, ginarefer ini gilayon sa surgeon agud nga makuha ang isa ka porsyon sang bukol kag gina-biopsy para mahatagan sang insakto nga bulong sa amo nga balatian.
Kun late na ginpa-check up ang pasyente, posible nga mabudlayan ini magginhawa bangud mahimo nga mag-ipit ang bukol sa mga major vessels.
Ang nasambit nga sitwasyon ang ginakabig medical emergency dugang sang doctor sa diin kinahanglan ma-operahan kag ma umpisahan ang chemotherapy agud nga masalbar ang kabuhi sang bata
Duga sang dahon sang rabanos, makabulig kontra rayuma kag diabetes
Kauyon ka man bala sang rabanos nga ginalakot sa nanuhay-tuhay nga linuto?
Nakahibalo ka bala ang dahon sang amo nga utan ang makasolbar sa nanuhay-tuhay man nga problema sa ikaayong lawas?
Suno kay Shilpa Marwah, registered dietitian sa India, ang dahon sang rabanos ang pinakamaayo nga source sang vitamin C, vitamin A kag thiamine.
Ang nasambit nga mga antioxidant ang nagapalikaw sa cell damage kag fatigue kag nagapadugang sang immunity.
Pahayag sang dietician, ang duga sang dahon sang rabanos ang nagapaayo man sang balatian nga rheumatism kag diabetes.
Ini bangud ang dahon sang rabanos ang makabig nga natural diuretic, manggaron sa laxative properties kag natukiban nga nagapanubo sang high blood sugar levels.
Isa ka man bala sa mas nagakaganahan magkaon sang kan-on kun ang sud-an mo greenshells nga sinabawan?
Ang green-lipped mussel ukon green shells ang ginakabig nga staple food sang indigenous Māori people sang New Zealand.
Suno sa mga eksperto, napamatud-an sa pagtuon nga ang mga Māori, ang may manubo nga incidence sang arthritis kag iban pa nga balatian.
Ini bangud ang green shells nga halos adlaw-adlaw ginakaon sang Māori people, ang natukiban nga manggaranon sa lean protein, healthy fats, kag micronutrients.
Suno kay Lizzie Streit, Licensed Dietitian kag Nutritionist sa Minnesota, USA, puno man ang green shells sang anti-inflammatory omega-3 fatty acids, zinc, iron kag B-vitamins nga nagapanubo sang blood pressure, nagapa-boost sang immunity kag naga-promote sang brain kag heart health.
Bentaha man sa mga luyag magpaniwang ang pagkaon sang green shells bangud tuman ka nubo ang calorie content sini.
Pagkaon sang seaweeds, nagabulig sa pagpaniwang
Kun magpaligo kita sa baybay masami nga makit-an naton ang sea vegetables nga gulaman ukon seaweed nga ginalakot sa nanuhay-tuhay nga linuto kaangay sang ensalada, sinabawan, sushi rolls kag iban pa.
Ang seaweed ang may duag nga pula, green, brown kag black kag suno sa mga eksperto, indi lang ini basta-basta nga sahi sang utan bangud tuman kadamo ang mahatag sini nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay Sharon O’Brien, registered dietician sa Ireland, ang seaweed ang may yara sang concentrated source sang iodine kag amino acid nga ginatawag tyrosine.
Ang tyrosine ang kinahanglan sang thyroid gland agud maka-function sang maayo, maka-release sang hormones nga naga-kontrol sang growth, energy production, reproduction kag naga-repair sang damaged cells sa lawas.
Manggaranon man ang seaweeds sa antioxidants, kaangay sang vitamins A, C kag E, carotenoids kag flavonoids nga naga-proteher sa lawas batok sa cell damage.
Nagabulig man sa pagpaniwang ang seaweeds bangud puno ini sang fiber kag fucoxanthin, nga nagapadugang sang metabolism.
Ang Fucoxanthin kag iban pa nga compounds sa seaweed ang nagabulig man sa pagpanubo sang blood sugar levels, kag risgo sa pag-angkon sang balatian nga diabetes.
Pagkaon sang prutas nga Chico, nagapanubo sa risko sa pag-angkon sang cancer
Sini nga tigtulugnaw nagatubo man ang tropical fruits kaangay sang Chico.
Ang Chico ukon Sapodilla ang ginarekomenda sang mga eksperto nga ilakip sa diet bangud manggaranon ini sa dietary fiber, vitamin C, kag anti-inflammatory agents.
Suno kay Shirley Johanna, registered dietician sa India, ang Chico ang wala lang nagapabakod sang intestines kundi nagapasanyog man sang immunity kag nagapalikaw sa nanuhay-tuhay nga bacterial infections bangud sa presensya sang vitamin C sa nasambit nga prutas.
Pahayag ni Johanna, ang mataas nga content sang anti-imflammatory agent nga ”tannins” sa prutas nga Chico ang nagabulong man sa balatian nga esophagitis, enteritis, kag gastritis.
Magluwas diri, natukiban man nga ang chemical compounds nga yara sa Chico ang makabulong man sa ubo kag ang antioxidants kag vitamins A kag B sang prutas ang nagapugong naman sa formation sang tumour cells kag nagapanubo sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang isa ka indibidwal sang balatian nga cancer.
Dugang pa sang dietician, bulong man sa kaluyahon ang pag-inom sang juice ukon shake sang Chiko bangud napamatud-an nga isa ka ”energy booster” ang ini nga sahi sang prutas.
Healthy lifestyle, healthy kidneys sa mga kabataan
Bastante nga pag-inom sang tubig kada adlaw, paglikaw sa softdrinks kag instant nga mga pagkaon, kag paglikaw man sa mataas nga sugar content.
Guzman, Pediatric Nephrologists, sa mga ginikanan agud nga malikawan nga maapektuhan ang kidney sang mga kabataan.
Guzman, iya ginpahayag nga katungdanan sang kidney ang mag-sala kag mag-tinlo, gani nagadugang sa iya nga trabaho kun madamo ang ginakaon sang bata nga lunsay indi maayo sa lawas.
Kun matam-an kag kun may yara na sang balatian ang lawas, dako ang posibilidad suno sa doctor nga maapektuhan ang kidney sang bata.
May yara sang hereditary, may congenital ukon inborn nga problema sa kidney apang kadam-an subong pahayag ni Dr.
Guzman, secondary na lang ini sa lifestyle diseases.
Clinical health psychologist, gin-isa-isa ang benepisyo sang paghipos kag kalinong
Kabahin na sang kabuhi sang isa ka indibidwal ang magpamati sang mga ambahanon kag tunog nga nagahalin sa nature kag palibot.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, nagakadapat man nga mangin kabahin sang lifestyle sang isa ka indibidwal ang pag-angkon sang ”quiet time” ukon silent moments.
Amy Sullivan, ang quiet moments ukon malinong nga palibot ang nagabulig sa pag-shut down sang physical response sang lawas sa stress.
Buot silingon, ang paghipos kag pagkalma ang makabulig sa:
Sullivan, ang silence ukon kalinong ang nagubilig man sa isa ka indibidwal sa pag-develop sang skills kaangay sang masanyog nga creativity kag communication skills.
Dugang pa sang doktor, natukiban sa isa ka pagtuon sang 2013 nga ang duha ka oras nga kalinong ang nagatuga sang bag-o nga cells sa hippocampus region sang utok nga naangot sa learning, remembering, kag emotions.
Tuman nga pagpalaba sang buhok, may epekto sa ikaayong lawas suno sa eksperto
Isa ka bala sa mahilig magpalaba sang imo buhok, kaangay ni Rapunzel?
May mga tawo nga tinuig pa antes makapagunting sang ila nga buhok.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, ang tuman nga pagpalaba sang buhok ang makahatag sang negatibo nga resulta sa ikaayong lawas.
Cynthia Cobb, nurse practitioner in women’s health, aesthetics and cosmetics, kag skin care sa Estados Unidos, nagakadapat nga kada duha tubtob apat ka bulan, gina-trim ang mga buhok agud nga malikawan ang breakage ukon split ends nga nagaresulta sa pagkaguba sang buhok.
Isa man suno kay Cobb sa ginahalinan sang stress hormones amo ang ”frustration” ilabi na kun wala sang kumpyansa ang isa ka indibidwal sa iya nga hairstyle kag masami ini nga nagakadugayan kag nabudlayan sa paghusay sang malaba nga buhok.
Ini ang rason pahayag ni Cobb kun ngaa nagakadapat tipigan sang maayo ang buhok bangud dako ang epekto sini sa emosyonal kag pisikal nga aspeto sang isa ka indibidwal.
Dugang pa sang doktor, mas healthy ang tubo sang mga buhok kun regular ini nga ginapaguntingan.
Naga-release man ang lawas sang mga “feel-good” hormone, kaangay sang dopamine kag serotonin nga nagapasanyog sang mood kag motor system function kun kuntento ang isa ka indibidwal sa iya nga ”looks” kag hairstyle.
PH, wala ginpaporma sang Australia sa 2021 FIBA Women’s Asia Cup
Nagsuprer sang duha ka asud-asud nga pagkalutos ang Gilas Pilipinas Women matapos ginpierde sang world No.
Nagtapos ang hampang sa score nga 120-56 pabor sa Australia.
7 nga China ang Gilas Women sa score nga 143-52.
Buwas sa gab-i, makasumpong sang Gilas Women ang Chinese Taipei.
Kinahanglan nila nga maka-secure sang isa ka daug sa ila nga grupo agud malikawan ang relegation match batok sa lowest-ranked team sa pihak nga grupo sang tournament.
Nutritionist, nagpanugyan nga indi dapat pag-i overcook ang utan
Magluto ka sang utanon, pabor ka bala nga overcooked ini ukon raw?
Chapman Family Cancer Wellness sa Italya, tuman ka dako ang bentaha sa ikaayong lawas kun raw ukon hilaw nga kaunon ang paborito naton nga utanon.
Ang raw vegetables ang manggaranon sa enzymes, vitamins kag minerals nga kinahanglan sang lawas agud malikawan ang nanuhay-tuhay nga bacteria ukon virus nga nagaresulta sa mga balatian.
Pahayag sang dietician, nagakadula ang water-soluble vitamin B kag vitamin C sang mga utanon kun masobrahan ini ka luto rason nga mas bentaha nga laga-on ukon lutuon lang ini nga wala sang buttery sauces kag mantika.
Kun masobrahan man sa asin, kalamay kag saturated fats ang aton linuto nga utan, dako ang risgo nga makaangkon ang isa ka indibidwal sang inflammation sa blood vessels kag cardiovascular disease.
Dugang pa ni Komar, kun luyag sang isa ka indibidwal nga buhinan ang iya kabug-aton, dako man ang mabulig sang pagkaon sang hilaw nga utanon bangud manubo ang calories sang raw vegtables kag mataas ang fiber content.
Suno kay Ariane Lang, registered dietician sa San José, Costa Rica, ang panit sang lemon ang manggaranon sa bioactive compounds nga tuman ka bentaha sa ikaayong lawas.
Pahayag sang dietician, ang flavonoids, fiber, vitamin C, kag D-limonene nga yara sa panit sang lemon, ang naga-stimulate sa immune system kag nagaproteher sa lawas batok sa nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian.
Bangud man sa powerful antibacterial properties sang panit sang lemon, makabulong ini sa mga oral-disease.
Magluwas diri, manggaranon man sa antioxidants ang panit sang lemon nga nagapanami sang supat sa diin mahimo ini nga gamiton bilang face mask.
Pagkaon gamit ang paya sang lubi, nagapabuhin sang cholesterol level sa lawas
Nahibal-an na sang kadam-an nga may benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas ang pagkaon sa dahon sang saging.
Apang nakahibalo ka man bala nga ang pagluto kag pagkaon sa coconut shells ukon paya sang lubi ang makabig nga healthy kag beneficial man sa ikaayong lawas?
Suno kay Anne Danahy registered dietitian sa Arizona sa Estados Unidos, dako ang bentaha sa ikaayong lawas kun gamiton nga pinggan kag lulutuan ang paya sang lubi bangud ini ang environment friendly, nagabulig nga malikawan ang overeating, nagapabuhin sang cholesterol level kag nagahatag sang mahamot nga aroma sa pagkaon.
Pahayag ni Danahy, may yara sang aroma ukon natural fibre content ang paya sang lubi nga nagasaylo sa linuto.
Ini nga fiber content ang nagapabuhin sang cholesterol level sa lawas sang isa ka indibidwal.
Bentaha man suno sa eksperto nga gamiton bilang pinggan ukon yahong ang paya sang lubi bangud manggaranon ini sa vitamins, A, D, E kag K.
Dugang pa ni Danahy, mataas ang fiber content sang paya sang lubi gani maayo ini sa digestive system sang isa ka indibidwal.
Dako nga palas-anon sa mga pamatan-on ang panahon sang pandemya bangud indi sila makalagaw, indi makapakigkita sa ila mga abyan kag indi makakadto sa eskwelahan.
Linda Mae Chin-Balajadia, adolescent medicine specialist, iya iya ginpahayag nga may yara sang sang negatibo nga epekto ang panibag-o nga pamaagi sang pagpangabuhi subong sa tunga sang pandemya bangud wala sang pautwasan ang mga kabataan nga mahimo magtuga sang paglala sang ila nga mental health.
Kun kaisa, ini ang magresulta sa kadulaan sang paglaom kag pagdumdom sang pag-utas sang kabuhi.
Subong nga bulan sang Septyembre, ginaselebrar ang “Suicide Prevention month” kag dako ang katungdanan sang mga ginikanan kag mangin sang mga doctor nga lab-uton ang mga pamatan-on.
Balajadia, ‘pag-istorya’ ang isa sa mga pamaagi agud nga mahagan-hagan ang ginabatyag sang isa ka teenager.
Dapat hatagan ang kabataan sang environment sa diin mabatyagan sini nga komportable siya sa pagpabutyag sang iya ginabatyag.
Panugyan sang natungdan sa mga ginikanan, kun ma-obserbahan ang kabataan nga may yara sang nagbag-o sa iya ukon masami ini nga naga-isahanon kag nasubu-an , indi gid maghuya-huya nga magpalapit sa doctor.
Pagcolor nagabulig sa pagdula sang stress kag anxiety
Sang lamharon ang aton edad, nangin hobby ukon kalingawan na naton ang coloring gamit ang aton crayons, colored pencils kag markers.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, nagakadapat nga bisan tigulang na kita, mas maayo nga ilakip naton ang coloring sa aton pastime ukon libre nga oras.
Suno sa clinical psychologist nga si Dr.
Scott Bea sang Estados Unidos, ang pag-color sa aton paborito nga mga libro, ang nagapakalma sa sentro sang aton utok nga ginatawag ”amygdala” nga nagaresulta sa pagnubo sang stress kag anxiety sang isa ka indibidwal ilabi na ang mga naga-overthink.
Makapasangkad man sa motor skills kag vision sang isa ka indibidwal ang pag-coloring bangud gina-require sini ang duha ka hemispheres sang utok nga mag-communicate.
Pahayag sang doktor, makapasangkad man sang kalidad sang pagtulog ang pag-coloring bangud ginapa-steady sini ang level sang melatonin sa lawas sang isa ka inbdibidwal.
Dahon sang suha, makabulong sang body odor
Kun magsud-an kita sang pinirito, kanami batyagon nga makapuksi lang kita sang suha sa aton ugsaran agud himuon nga sawsawan sa aton nga pagkaon.
Nahibaluan nga ang citrus fruit nga suha ang bantog na sa kalibutan nga may madamo sang mahatag nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas sa diin nakaandan naman nga imnon bilang juice ang duga sini.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, indi lang ang prutas nga suha ang dapat naton puksion sa puno sini kundi pati ang dahon.
Michelle Heben sa Michigan USA, ang calamansi leaves ang manggaranon sa anti-viral properties nga makabulong sa makatol nga panit halin sa kinadtan sang insekto.
Puno man suno sa doktor sa antifungal properties ang dahon sang suha kag ginagamit man ini bilang herbal medicine agud bulngon ang skin diseases tuga sang fungi.
Bentaha man suno kay Heben ang dahon sang suha sa mga allergic sa deodorant bangud ginagamit ini nga natural alternative agud malikawan ang body smell ilabi na sa ilok.
ILOILO CITY- Ang rambutan isa ka prutas nga native sa Malaysia apang naglapta na sa kalibutan kalakip na diri sa Pilipinas.
Magluwas sa pinasahi sini nga itsura nga mapula nga bulbulon kag matam-is ng sabor, nagatanyag man ini sang impresibo nga health benefits.
Ang vitamins, minerals, kag antioxidants sa rambutans ang makahatag sang vital nutrition benefits.
Halimbawa,ang folate nga importante nga bitamina para sa healthy cell division kag DNA duplication.
Ang mga doktor, naga- recommend nga ang babaye nga luyag magbusong ang dapat nga magkonsumo sang indi magnubo sa 400 micrograms sang folate adlaw-adlaw bangud kritikal ini sa paglikaw sa birth defects.
Ang rambutans puno man sang potassium, isa ka mineral nga nagabulig sa imo heart nga mag- beat, kidneys nga mag- function, kag muscles nga mag- contract.
Dugang pa, ang rambutan maka- provide man sang iban nga health benefits bangud nga manggaranon ini sa vitamin C, nga isa ka potent antioxidant nga nagabulig reduce sang cellular damage kag mapanubo ang risgo sang cancer.
Paghibi, may maayo nga epekto sa mga naga-antos sang blurred nga panan-awan
Sang lamharon nga edad, masami kita nagawawaw kun maghibi sa tion nga kita ang bayaan ukon bakulon sang aton ginikanan.
Apang kun naga-edad na, ang iban sa aton sa baylo nga magwawaw kun emosyonal, ginatago-tago na lang ang mga luha.
Timothy Legg, isa ka psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner kag licensed psychologist sa Estados Unidos, wala sang dapat kahuy-an ang pagwawaw kun nagahibi bangud pinaagi sini, mas mabuligan ang lawas nga maka-release sang oxytocin kag endorphins nga nagapabuhin sang physical kag emotional pain.
Ang ‘all out’ nga paghibi suno sa doktor ang tuman man ka bentaha bangud ang dalagko nga mga luha ang may dala nga lysozyme nga amo ang nagapatay sang mga bacteria sa mga mata.
Pahayag niya, ang pagwawaw samtang nagahibi ang makabulig man sa pag-moist sa mga mata agud malikawan ang pagmala sang mucous membranes nga nagaresulta sa blurred vision.
Apang paandam sang doktor, nagakadapat nga magpadulong sa psychiatrist ang mga tawo nga halos adlaw-adlaw kag masami nga nagahibi bangud posible nagasuprer na ang mga ini sang iban pa nga balatian kaangay sang depresyon.
Pagpanghusay, nagapanami sang blood flow sa lawas
Ang pagpanghusay sang buhok ang isa sa nangin routine na sang kadam-an kada adlaw.
Apang suno sa mga eksperto, wala lang nagapahipid sang buhok ang simple nga pag-brush sang hair strands bangud ini nga routine sa adlaw-adlaw ang nagahatag sang madamo nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas.
Cynthia Cobb, nurse practitioner kag espesyalista sa women’s health, aesthetics, cosmetics, kag skin care, yari ang pila ka mga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas nga ma-angkon sang mga indibidwal nga masami nagapanghusay:
Agud malikawan ang breakage ukon pagkaguba sang buhok, ginpanugyan sang doktor ang mahinay nga paghusay sa kada section sang buhok kag likawan ang masami nga pagbutang sang hair color.
Pagpamati sa holiday music, makabulig sa pag-manage sang chronic pain
Bangud sa nagahilapit na nga Paskwa sa pungsod, indi na naman mapunggan ang pagtukar sang mga masadya nga ambahanon ukon Christmas songs.
Suno kay clinical psychologist Scott Bea, practitioner sang cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy sa Estados Unidos, magluwas nga nagapa-improve sang mood sang isa ka tawo ang pagpamati sang Holiday music, natukiban nga dako man ini nga bentaha para sa masangkad nga memorya, nagapalikaw sa stress kag makabulong sa chronic pain.
Pahayag sang doktor, makabulig man pasangkad sang cognitive abilities sang mga pasyente nga may dimentia kag Alzheimer’s disease ang pagpaidalom sa holiday music therapy.
Bangud man sa simple nga pagpamati sa Christmas music, natukiban sa isa ka pagtuon nga nagnubo ang pagkinahanglan sang mga pasyente nga bag-o lang napaidalom sa operasyon sang bulong nga morphine nga nagabulig manage sang ila nga chronic pain.
BARMM, nagaisahanon nga rehiyon nga wala pa sang na-detect nga COVID-19 delta variant
ILOILO CITY – Isa ka rehiyon na gid lang sa bilog nga Pilipinas ang wala sang may narecord nga COVID-19 delta variant.
Alethea De Guzman, director sang Epidemiology Bureau sang Department of Health (DOH), ang Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao (BARMM) na lang ang nagaisahanon nga rehiyon nga wala pa sang may nadetect nga mas makalalaton nga variant sang COVID-19.
Apang gin-athag niya nga wala ini nagakahulugan nga wala sang presensya sang amo nga COVID-19 strain sa Bangsamoro.
Pahayag niya, ini bangod nga diutay pa lang ang samples nga ila nakuha halin sa rehiyon.
Ang Delta variant nga kilala nga mas makalalaton kumparar sa original COVID-19 strain ang nagabug-os sang 11 percent sang tanan nga sequenced samples sa Pilipinas.
Una na nga ginkumpirmar sang DOH nga may yara sang community transmission sang Delta variant sa National Capital Region kag Calabarzon, apang mabudlay nga ideklarar ang community transmission sa bilog nga pungsod.
Pag-improve sang kapasidad sang Philippine Genome Center sa UP Visayas, napondohan na
ILOILO CITY- Nagpagwa na sang pondo ang Department of Budget and Management para sa pagpasanyog sang kapasidad sang Philippine Genome Center sa Visayas nga nahamtang sa University of the Philippines (UP) Visayas- Miagao Campus.
Cynthia Palmes Saloma, executive director sang Philippine Genome Center sa UP Diliman, iya ginpahayag nga na-cascade na sa UP System ang amo nga pondo nga gamiton para sa duha ka satellite facilities sang PGC agud makapatigayon sang whole genome sequencing nga amo ang naga- check sang presensiya sang COVID-19 variants sa mga positive samples.
Suno kay Saloma, nagalaom siya nga mapadasig na ini agud mas mangin mahapos nalang para sa mga syudad kag probinsya sa Visayas kag Mindanao nga magpadala sang ila samples para sa sequencing.
Nahibaluan nga ini nga mga samples ang ginapadala pa sa main laboratory sang PGC sa UP Diliman.
Natalana naman nga ipaidalom sa refresher course ang mga personnel nga assigned sa mga satellite facilities para maantisipar ang mga posible scenario sa tion nga matigayon na ini.
Community transmission sang Delta variant, ginkumpirmar sang Philippine Genome Center
ILOILO CITY- Ginkumpirmar sang Philippine Genome Center (PGC) nga may yara na sang community transmission sang tuman ka makalalaton nga Delta variant sang COVID-19 sa pungsod.
Cynthia Palmes Saloma, executive director sang PGC kag isa ka Ilongga nga tumandok sang Molo, Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga ang Delta variant ang naangot sa tuman kadasig nga pagtimbuok sang kaso base sa resulta sang ila genome sequencing sang swab samples nga ginkolekta gikan sa COVID-19 patients sang Hunyo kag Hulyo.
Saloma, nakumpirma ang community transmission base sa ila phylogenetic tree sa ginapatigayon nga analysis kon sa diin ginaangot nila ang mga kaso ukon ang relasyon sang mga organismo ukon genes gikan sa common source.
Suno pa kay Saloma, sa subong, ang “branches” sang phylogenetic tree ang mas malaba kag indi nila ma- trace kon sa diin naghalin ang mga branches gani makabig ini nga community transmission.
Gindugang pa ni Saloma nga miembro man sang Technical Working Group on the New Variants sang Department of Health, nga sa National Capital Region kag sa pungsod sa pangkabilugan, may na- detect nga pagtaas sang Delta variant sa positive swab samples nga gin- sequence sang nagligad nga duha ka bulan.
Pahayag niya, sa bilog nga pungsod, singko porsyento sang samples nga gin-sequence sang Hunyo ang may Delta variant, kag pagkasunod nga bulan, nagtimbuok ini sang 48 porsyento.
Magluwas sa NCR, gin-athag ni Saloma nga may yara man sang nakit-an nga pagtimbuok sang kaso sang Delta variant sa Ilocos region, Cagayan Valley, Central Luzon, Calabarzon,Western Visayas, Central Visayas kag Northern Mindanao.
Base naman sa ulihi nga sequencing report sang PGC, ang numero naman sang Lambda variant case nga na-detect sa pungsod ang nagapabilin sa isa.
Santo naman sa data sang PGC, naglab-ot na sa 11,000 samples ang napaidalom sa sequencing apang wala pa ini nakalab-ot sa one percent sang kabug-usan nga COVID-19 cases sa pungsod.
Tuman ka importante ang ‘adolescence stage’ bangud ini ang magadetermina sang pangabuhi sang isa ka tawo padulong sa ‘adulthood’.
Santu sa World Health Organization (WHO), ginakabig nga ‘adolescents’ amo ang mga naga-edad 10 ka tuig tubtob 19 anyos.
Linda Mae Chin-Balajadia, Pediatrician, Diplomate of Philippine Pediatric Society – Adolescent Medicine Specialist, iya ginpahayag kun maayo ang nangin eksperyensya sang kabataan halin sa ‘childhood’ padulong sa ‘adolescent’, mangin maayo man ang kahimtangan sini sa ‘adulthood’.
Kun kaisa mabatian ang mga ginikanan nga ginahambalan ang ila mga anak nga ‘wala sa gihapon sang buot’.
Paathag sang eksperto, ang development sang utok sang tawo ang naga-umpisa sa likod kag ulihe nga nagadevelop ang atubang nga bahin nga tuman ka importante bangud diri nagahalin ang decision making kag judgment.
Gani subong nga panahon sang pandemya, dako ang epekto sini sa mental health sang kabataan bangud indi na sila mahimo makaguwa ukon makalagaw kag indi man makakadto sa eskwelahan.
Bilang isa ka Adolescent Medicine Specialist, indi lang mga ‘adolescents’ ang gina-istorya nila kundi mangin ang bilog nga pamilya sa diin kun kaisa nagakadalasa pa ang marriage counseling bangud ang problema sang ginikanan, ang ginaproblema man sang mga kabataan.
Pag-ehersisyo sa tion sang matugnaw nga panahon, mas bentaha suno sa mga eksperto
Nagapakadto na kita sa Paskwa sa diin amat-amat na nga naga-tuman ka lamig ang aton nga kaagahon kag panahon.
Ang iban natamaran na sa pag-ehersisyo ukon magpadayon sang ila walking routine bangud sa malamig nga dapya sang hangin.
Apang suno sa mga ekperto, wala sang nagakadapat kabalak-an bangud natukiban nga mas bentaha sa ikaayong-lawas ang pag-ehersisyo sa malamig nga temperatura.
Cedric Bryant, president kag chief science officer sang American Council, mas maka-burn sang calories ang lawas kun naga-ehersisyo ukon nagapabalhas sa tunga sang cold weather.
Bentaha man ini sa mga indibidwal nga may problema sa pag-focus ukon indi maka-paminsar sang tadlong bangud sa tion nga exposed ang lawas sa malamig nga temperatura, nagasangkad man ang immune system.
Nagapabuhin man sang stress ang pagginhawa sang oxygenated fresh air ukon malamig nga hangin sa diin samtang naga-burn sang calories ang lawas sa tunga sang kalamigon, naga-produce man ang utok sang serotonin kag endorphins nga nagahatag sang positibo nga panan-awan kag mood.
Makabulig man ang pag-ehersisyo sa tunga sang malamig nga temperatura sa paglikaw sa stressful nga mga sitwasyon kag nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian kaangay sang heart disease, stroke, makabulig pabaskog sang mga tul-an kag nagapadugang sang muscle strength kag endurance.
Ube makabulig likaw sa Colon, Lung kag Prostate cancer
Nagahilapit na ang pag-umpisa sang BER-months sa diin maga-umpisa naman ang paskwa sa pungsod.
Pat-od nga indi na naman madula sa mga lamesa ang paborito nga ice cream, cake, tinapay kag iban pa nga handa.
Apang isa ka man bala sa mga indibidwal nga tuman ka paborito ang ube sa diin ang halos tanan nga ginahanda nga pagkaon ang may flavor nga ube?
Ang ube ukon ‘purple yams’ ang kilala bilang tuberous root vegetable nga naghalin sa Southeast Asia kag ginakabig nga indigenous staple food sang Pilipinas.
Apang ang ube indi lang basta-basta matam-is nga flavor nga ginagamit sa nanuhay-tuhay nga dishes ukon linuto, bangud manggaranon ini sa vitamins, minerals kag antioxidants nga tuman ka bentaha sa ikaayong lawas.
Susan McCabe, Mental Health dietitian sa London, England, puno ang ube sang antioxidants, vitamin C kag anthocyanins nga nagabulig panubo sang blood pressure kag inflammation, kag nagabulig protiher sa lawas batok sa cancer kag type 2 diabetes.
Ang vitamin C nga yara sa purple yams ukon ube ang nagabulig sa cells sang lawas nga mangin healthy, nagapa-boost sang iron absorption, kag nagapalikaw sa pagkaguba sang DNA.
Pahayag sang doktor, santo sa ginpatigayon nga test-tube study, natukiban man nga ang cyanidin kag peonidin nga sakop sang anthocyanins nga yara sa ube, ang nagapa-reduce sang growth sang nanuhay-tuhay nga sahi sang cancer kaangay sang: Colon cancer, Lung cancer kag Prostate cancer.
Husto nga pagpili sang kalo, importante man para sa hair health
ILOILO CITY- Ang mga kalo, magluwas nga fashionable, functional man ang mga ini ilabi na batok sa UV rays sang adlaw kon summer.
Apang may nagapamangkot man kon malain bala sa imo hair health ang pagsuksok sini?
Ang kalo may yara sang maayo nga dulot sa imo buhok.
Sa tion sang matugnaw nga panahon, ini ang naga- protect sang imo buhok kag scalp gikan sa mga elements.
Ini ang beneficial kon magagwa ikaw nga basa ang buhok nga mahimo maggabok kag mangin prone sa breakage kon magcontact sa tugnaw.
Sa mainit naman nga panahon, importante nga protektahan ang buhok kag scalp gilan sa UV rays, bangud ginapamala sang adlaw ang buhok kag nagatuga sang paglasyaw sang duag sang buhok.
Suno naman sa National Health Service, ang masami nga pagsuksok sang kalo kag malawig nga tion ang wala nagapadasig sang hair loss.
Apang ang tuman ka hugot nga kalo ang mahimo mag-trap sang oil sang imo hair roots gani ini ang nagapamala sang punta sang buhok.
Kon ang buhok mangin greasy, ang circulation sang oxygen sa imo follicles ang mahimo ma-obstruct sang higko kag mag- build up ang bacteria kag nagaresulta sa pagkataktak sang buhok.
Gani panugyan sang eksperto, magpili sang kalo nga sakto lang nga makaginhawa man ang imo buhok kag scalp.
Pagtulog nga patay ang suga, makabulig agud makalikaw sa depression
Sa tion sang imo pagtulog, mas pabor ka bala nga nagasiga ang imo suga ukon lampara?
Sa isa ka pagtuon nga gin-publish sang 2014 sa ‘The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism,’ napamatud-an nga ang ‘LIGHT’ ukon kasanag ang isa sa pinaka-importante nga factor kag may madalom nga impact sa pag-angkon sang kalidad nga tulog.
Natukiban sa pagtuon nga kun present ang light source ukon may nagasiga nga suga sa tion sang pagtulog, tuman ka apektado ang circadian rhythm sang lawas — isa ka biological mechanism nga naga-regulate sang cycle sa pagtulog kag pagbugtaw.
Bangud diri, ginarekomenda ang pagtulog sa ‘complete pitch darkness’ bangud ang tuman kadulom nga palibot ang naga-send sa lawas sang signal sa utok nga oras na sa pagpahuway.
Diri kag naga-produce ang utok sang hormone nga melatonin nga nagaresulta sang pagkatuyo, muscle relaxation, kag pagnubo sang body temperature.
Bangud man sini, naganubo ang risgo sa pag-angkon sang isa ka indibidwal sang depression kag metabolic disorder.
Napamatud-an man nga ang mga ginatawag nga “night owls” ukon mahilig magpulaw kun gab-i kag exposed sa suga ukon light ang tuman ka vulnerable sa pag-angkon sang muscle loss, diabetes kag metabolic syndrome, ilabi na ang mga tawo nga masami kulang ang tulog.
Pamilya nga may history sang allergy, may posibilidad nga masubli sang bata
Dako ang posibilidad nga sa history sang pamilya ukon sa ginikanan makuha sang isa ka bata ang allergy.
Ivy June Minerva-Soriano, isa ka pediatrician, iya ginpahayag nga kun may yara sang allergies ang ginikanan, masobra 40% ang posibilidad nga masubli man ini sang kabataan.
Apang bisan nga waa sang history suno kay Soriano, 5-15% may posibilidad ini sa gihapon nga magka-allergy.
Kumon nga mga allergies sa bata amo ang atopic dermatitis, food allergy ukon Allergic rhinitis.
Kun makabatyag sang allergy, importante gid suno kay Soriano nga magpakonsulta sa especialista .
May mga allergies nga dasig lang makuha apang may yara man sang madugay — halin sang lapsag tubtob naga edad na.
Kadam-an sa aton pamilyar sa duag green nga ginagamit bilang pampa-aslom sa linuto sa diin makit-an lamang ini sa ugsaran ukon sa gwa sang aton mga balay.
Ini amo ang iba nga nangin bantog sa maaslom sini nga sabor.
Farrah Agustin-Bunch, magluwas nga epektibo ang iba bilang pampa-aslom sa mga linuto ilabi na sa paborito naton nga sinigang, manggaranon man ini sa vitamins B kag C, calcium, phosphorus, iron kag fiber.
Natukiban suno sa doktor nga ang extract ukon duga sang iba fruit, ang nagahatag sang madamo nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas.
Lakip na diri ang positibo nga epekto sa metabolic rate bangud sa manubo sini nga calorie content.
Bunch, nagabulong man ang iba sa hypertension, ubo kag runny nose.
Sa mga may ubo, mahimo nga idugang ang duga sang iba fruit sa cough syrup.
Dugang pa sang doktor, laga-on lamang ang iba sa mainit nga tubig kag imnon ini sang maalabaab kada aga agud maangkon ang maayo nga ikaayong lawas kag mabulong ang iban pa nga balatian.
Paghimutad sa bulan, madamo sang benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas
Kun magtulok ka sa bulan kun kagab-ihon, mabatyagan mo man bala ang madalum nga koneksyon sa kalibutan?
Suno kay Sadie Bingham, longtime meditator kag clinical social worker in anxiety sa Gig Harbor, Washington, sa Hindu system sang medisina, ginapatihan nga makabulong sa anxiety kag stress sang isa ka indibidwal ang simple nga pagtulok sa bulan.
Pahayag ni Bingham, samtang naga-meditate ang isa ka indibidwal sa bulan, naga-release ang lawas sang melatonin nga nagahatag sang malawig nga relaxation.
Natukiban man nga ang pagtulok sa bulan ang nagapadugang sang kalipay sang isa ka inibidwal kag masulhay nga disposisyon kag panan-awan.
Magluwas diri, ang masami nga pagtulok sa celestial bodies kaangay sang bulan, ang napamatud-an man nga nagahatag sang masangkad nga emotional awareness, mabaskog nga sense of intuition kag kalidad nga tulog.
Dugang pa ni Bingham, bentaha man ang moon gazing sa mga kababainhan bangud simbolo ang bulan sang masangkad nga fertility.
Pagpalakpak,dapat palakpakan bangod sa ikaayong lawas, may dala man nga kaayuhan
ILOILO CITY- Ang pagpalakpak naangot sa tanan nga maayo nga butang sa kabuhi kaangay sang selebrasyon, pagdayaw kag madamo pa.
Naangot ini sa kalipay sa aton kabuhi kag sa ikaayong lawas pa gid gali.
Rahul Dogra gikan sa Kairali Ayurveda group sa India,ang mga points sa aton kamot ilabi na sa aton palad ang may direct connections sa mga organs sa lawas nga nagakahulugan nga mahimo kita mag-stimulate sang sini nga pressure points agud maalebyuhan ang pagpalanakit sa lawas.
Ang pagpalakpak ang epektibo gid nga aktibidad nga maka- stimulate sang blood circulation, kag ini nga blood circulation ang nagakakas sang tanan nga bara sa ugat lakip na ang bad cholesterol.
Ang clapping naga-improve man sang asthma related problems paagi sa pag- promote sang function sang nerve endings nga nagaangot sa sini nga organs.
Sa kabataan, ini makabulig sa pag-improve sang brain function kag magcontribute sa mas maayo nga handwriting, reduced spelling mistakes, kag naga- improve sang concentration.
Ang regular clapping nagapakita man nga may benefits sa improved bone health sa kaso sang arthritis kag mga associated pains, naga- reduce sang insomnia kag naga- improve sang hair health.
Sa pagpalakpak lang sa sulod sang 20 tubtob 30 minutos, kada adlaw, ma-enjoy mo ini tanan nga health benefits.
Kadam-an sa aton paborito ang prutas nga ubas apang gamay lang ang nakahibalo nga ang mga magagmay sini nga liso ang ginagamit bilang bulong sa nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian.
Atli Arnarson, PhD in human nutrition sa University of Iceland, ginagamit bilang dietary supplement ang duga ukon extract sang grape seed bangud manggaranon ini sa mataaas nga content sang antioxidants nga nagapalikaw sa oxidative stress, inflammation, kag tissue damage tuga sang chronic diseases.
Dako ang mabulig sang grape seed extract (GSE) suno sa doktor agud maangkon sang isa ka indibidwal ang masangkad nga heart, brain, kidney, liver, kag skin health.
Pahayag ni Arnarson, pila ka mga pagtuon ang naga-suggest nga nagapa-improve man ang GSE sang blood flow sang lawas kag nagapabuhin sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang blood clots.
Whipped cream, nagapanamit na sang kape, may health benefits pa
Kun magbakal ka sang imo paborito nga beverage kaangay sang kape ukon shake, masami mo man bala ginapadugangan sang heavy whipped cream ang imo nga drinks bilang topping?
Suno kay SaVanna Shoemaker, registered dietician sa Estados Unidos, sa mga indibidwal nga paborito ang whipped cream kag nanamitan nga i-partner ini sa ila nga pagkaon ukon drinks, wala sang dapat kabalak-an bangud madamo ini sang minerals kag health-boosting vitamins kaangay sang vitamins A, D, E, kag K ang nasambit nga dairy product.
Pahayag niya, mas maka-absorb ang lawas sang isa ka indibidwal sang fat-soluble vitamins kun magconsume sang healthy fat kaangay sang fat nga yara sa heavy whipping cream.
Natukiban man sa pila ka mga pagtuon suno kay Shoemaker nga ang full-fat dairy products ang nagapanubo sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang obesity, type 2 diabetes, kag heart disease.
Apang paandam sang dietician, nagakadapat nga in moderation man ang pagkaon sang whipped cream agud maangkon ang nagakaigo nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas.
Selfie nga may geniune nga yuhom, may maayo nga epekto sa mood sang iban nga tawo
Kadam-an sa aton, pamilyar na sa ginatawag nga selfie ukon ang pagkuha sang picture sa kaugalingon gamit ang cellphone.
Sa pagselfie-selfie, ang iban nagapa-cute sa atubang sang camera, nagakadlaw kag may yara man sang maisog nga look ukon fierce.
Santo sa pagtuon sa University of California nga may tig-ulo nga Psychology of Well-Being, dako ang impact sa ikaayong lawas sang pagselfie kun himuon ini sa insakto nga pamaagi.
Sa amo nga research study, gin-assign sang researchers ang grupo sang mga estudyante agud magselfie kada adlaw sa sulod sang tatlo ka semana samtang ginapaminsar ang mga tawo ukon butang nga makapalipay sa ila.
Diri kag ginrekord sang mga researcher ang ila nga mga mood kag natukiban nga mas nagtaas ang kumpyansa kag positibo nga panan-awan sang mga estudyante nga may genuine smile ipaanggid sa mga pilit nga yuhom ukon kadlaw.
Sang ginrekord naman ang response sang mga nakakita sang mga selfie sang mga estudyante, natukiban nga dako ang ‘comforting effect’ sang amo nga mga picture bangud sa positibo nga mga yuhom.
Natukiban man sa pagtuon nga makapasangkad sang mental health kag makahatag sang positive energy ang masami nga pag-selfie apang nagakadapat nga likawan ang mga look nga fierce ukon pagkusmod kag magyuhom sang matuod-tuod.
Pagkaon sang talong kag kamatis, nagapainit sang ulo
ILOILO CITY- Gusto mo bala nga manami kag masadya pirmi ang imo modo?
Ari ang mga pagkaon nga dapat mo likawan bangud ini ang nagapainit sang imo ulo.
Suno kay Elizabeth Trattner, isa ka Integrative Medicine expert, isa sa kamatis nga kabangdanan sang kaakig ukon kainit sang ulo.
Ini ang isa sa mga pagkaon nga nagatuga sang init sa lawas kag suno sa Eastern Medicine, ang hot foods ang masami naangot sa kaakig.
Magluwas sa kamatis, yara man ang talong, kape, spicy foods, kag iban pa nga may mataas nga acidity.
Suno naman kay Evan Chait, isa ka Physical Therapist, ang mga pagkaon nga may madamo sang sebo ang mahimo magtuga sang kaakig.
Apang indi man buot silingon nga dalukan mo ang imo lawas sang sini nga pagkaon bangod nga makontra mo man ang epekto sini paagi sa pagkonsumo sang iban nga pagkaon kaangay sang lubi nga nagapabugnaw sang lawas ukon indi gani, hagan-haganon lang gid ang pagkonsumo sang sini nga mga pagkaon.
Pagkaon sang hilaw nga itlog, makabulig sa eye health
Kun may yara man sang pagkaon nga pwede lutuon sa masobra 100 ka recipe ukon pamaagi, ini amo ang itlog.
Apang suno sa eksperto, kun luyag mo nga makaangkon sang instant protein boost kag enerhiya, indi mo na kinahanglan lutuon ang itlog bangud mas madamo ini sang health benefits kun kan-on nga hilaw ukon raw.
Suno kay Katherine Marengo, isa ka clinical registered dietitian sa New Orleans, sa mga indibidwal nga mahilig magkaon sang hilaw nga itlog, wala sang dapat kabalak-an bangud tuman kataas ang levels sang vitamin A kag vitamin B-12 nga yara sa raw eggs.
Manggaranon man suno sa iya sa important antioxidants nga lutein kag zeaxanthin ang itlog nga amo ang nagapalikaw sa eye-related diseases.
Pabor man suno sa dietitian sa mga magakuha sang exam ang pagkaon sang raw egg bangud mataas ang choline sang itlog nga wala pa naluto sa diin importante ini nga factor para sa masangkad nga brain function.
Pagpamanyos sang essential oils , makasolbar sang madamo nga problema sa imo lawas
Nakaandan mo man bala magbutang sang tawas sa imo mga tiil agud mangin mahamot ini kag fresh?
Suno sa mga eksperto, dako ang bentaha sa ikaayong lawas kun banyusan man ang mga tiil sang essential oils ilabi na kun antes magtulog.
Naga-promote ini suno sa doktor sang healthy sleep, nagabulong sang sakit sang ulo, kag common cold.
Pahayag ni Wilson, kada nerve sang lawas sang isa ka indibidwal ang naga-end sa mga tiil rason nga kun pahidan sang essential oils, mas ma-absorb sang lawas ang health benefits.
Dugang pa niya, agud maangkon ang kalidad nga tulog, bentaha ang pagpahid sang lavender oil sa mga tiil bangud nagabulig ini buhin sang anxiety kag nagapalikaw sa insomnia.
Para naman sa mga may nausea kag luyag nga magsangkad ang ila brain function, pabor man ang pagbanyos sang peppermint oil sa mga till antes magtulog.
Sa subong nga panahon sang tag-ululan indi malikawan ang asod-asod nga pagbrownout sa diin may mga bes nga sa tunga sang kagab-ihon ukon kaagahon, nagapaligo kita sang balhas kun mag-ala sauna ang aton puluy-an bangud patay ang electric fan ukon ang aircon.
Suno sa mga eksperto, healthy ang pag-release sang balhas sa aton nga lawas ilabi na kun naga-ehersisyo bangud naga-promote ini sang cardiovascular health.
Apang kun ano ka-importante ang pagpabalhas para sa ikaayong lawas, amo man ang pag-counteract sang fluid loss.
Suno kay Sarah Rautio, Consumer Horticulture Educator sa Michigan State University, pat-od nga dako ang mahatag nga benepisyo sang pagpabalhas kun naga-ehersisyo apang kun indi ma-counteract ang fluid loss, mangin tunaan ini sang nausea kag pagkalingin sang ulo tuga sang dehydration.
Agud mapabilin nga dehydrated ang lawas, yari ang pila ka mga panugyan sang eksperto:
Pagsindi sang scented candles kon brown-out , nagabulig sa pagpabugnaw sang nagainit nga ulo kaga nagapasangkad sang mental health
Sa maulanon nga panahon, masami nga naga-eksperyensya kita sang brownout sa diin ang kandila ang isa sa nagahatag sang kasanag sa sulod sang aton puluy-an.
Apang suno sa eksperto, mas paborable sa ikaayong-lawas ang paggamit sang scented candles bangud indi lamang ini remedyo para sa brownout, kundi mangin para sa masangkad nga mental health nga labing importante sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga pandemya.
Pahayag ni Chalkia, dako man ang mabulig sang scented candles sa pagpanubo sang anxiety sa diin, kun makasimhot ang isa ka indibidwal sang mahamot kag relaxing nga aroma, nagarelease ang lawas sang serotonin kag dopamine nga nagabulig sa pagregulate sang mood.
Dugang pa sang therapist, ang mga aroma kaangay sang geranium, lavender, kag peppermint, ang epektibo man agud bulngon ang pila ka psychological kag physiological disorders.
Agud malikawan ang anxiety, epektibo suno sa therapist ang mga scent kaangay sang rosemary, lemon, chamomile, kag geranium.
Panugyan sang eksperto sa mga indibidwal nga nabudlayan sa pag-maintain sang positibo nga panan-awan sa tunga COVID-19 pandemic, epektibo ang pagsindi sang citrus-scented candles, nga nagapa-boost sang enerhiya kag naga-create sang warm environment.
Eksperto, may panugyan tuhoy sa husto nga oras sa pagpanibin antes magtulog
Sa tunga sang hugot nga mga pagsulundan kadungan sang COVID-19 pandemic, maka-angkon ka pa bala sang maayo nga tulog?
Nahibaluan nga ang pagpanibin bag-o magtulog ang isa sa bantog nga sleep remedy.
Apang ano ang preffered time agud magpanibin bag-o magtulog?
Stacy Sampson family medicine physician sa Iowa, ang best time agud magpanibin amo ang isa tubtob duha ka-oras antes ang pagtulog.
Sampson, naga-improve ang blood circulation sang core sang lawas halin sa mga kamot hasta sa mga tiil.
Dugang pa sang doktor, ang pagpanibin gamit ang maalabaab nga tubig ang nagapasangkad sang “temperature circadian rhythm,” nga nagabulig sa isa ka indibidwal nga matulugan sang madasig kag nagapataas sang kalidad sang pagtulog.
Pagpahulom sa mainit ukon alabaab nga tubig, nagapa-improve sang mental health–Dr.
ILOILO CITY- Ang pagpahulom sa mainit ukon alabaab nga tubig ang pinakamanami himuon sa matugnaw nga panahon.
Smith, isa ka general practice specialist, magluwas sa manami sa pamatyagan, madamo man ini sang benepisyo sa lawas.
Ini naga-increase sang blood circulation kag ang mas maayo nga blood flow ang nagakahulugan man nga madamo nga nutrients ang available agud makabulig sa cells nga mag-regenerate kag padasigon ang healing process.
Nagabulig man ini sa muscle pain relief.
Ang increase sa blood circulation makabulig pakuha sang pain-causing chemicals nga naga- build up sa tissues kag ang resulta, madasig nga madula ang muscle pain.
Kon ang tawo nagapahulom sa mainit nga tubig,ang heart mas nagaaktibo kaangay sa kon paano ini nagabenepisyo kun ikaw ang naga- ehersisyo.
Kag, naga-improve ini sang mental health bangud nagabuhin ini sang epekto sang stress kag naga- contribute sa improved mental health.
Nadugangan sang 436 ka panibag-o nga kaso sang COVID-19 ang Western Visayas.
Sa sini nga new cases, 125 ang halin sa Aklan, 2 sa Guimaras, 143 sa Iloilo Province, 78 sa Negros Occidental, 28 sa Bacolod City, kag 60 sa Iloilo City.
As of July 19, nagsaka na sa 77,880 ang reported nga kabug-usan nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 sa Rehiyon VI.
438 naman ang reported nga bag-o nga naka-recover gani nga nagsaka na sa 64,936 ang kabug-usan nga nag-ayo sa balatian sa rehiyon.
Nagsaka naman sa 1,783 ang numero sang mga patay matapos nadugangan sang 17 ka new deaths.
Kun pahat-pahaton ang mga kaso sa rehiyon:
Ilonggo public health expert, nagapamuno sa project team nga nagatuon sa tawa-tawa bilang potential treatment sa mild-moderate Covid-19 cases
May promising data nga nakit-an ang mga eksperto sa antiviral properties sang tawa-tawa bilang potential treatment sa mild tubtob moderate nga mga kaso sang COVID-19.
Ang project team sa amo nga clinical trial ang ginapangunahan ni Dr.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Padilla, iya ginpahayag nga yara na subong sa Phase 2 ang ginapatigayon nga clinical trial sa nasambit nga herbal medicine.
68 ka mga pasyente ang na-recruit na nga magpartisipar sa randomized controlled clinical trial sa efficacy kag safety sang tawa-tawa extract.
Suno kay Padilla, sa Bacolod City kag Negros Occidental naghalin ang mga volunteers para sa amo nga pagtuon.
Target sang 11-month study nga makatipon sang 280 participants gani nga nagapadayon pa subong ang pagpangita sang mga volunteers ukon mga pasyente nga may mild tubtob moderate nga COVID-19 cases.
Ginalauman nga Septyembre subong nga tuig matapos ang amo nga pagtuon.
Una na nga gin-aprubahan ang tawa-tawa bilang health supplement para sa Dengue.
Funded sang Department of Science and Technology (DOST) ang research kag development agud nga makilala kag maaprubahan ang tawa-tawa bilang potential treatment sa COVID-19.
Liso sang istiwitis, dako ang mabulig sa eye health kag pagbato sa mga sahi sang cancer
Kun magluto kita sang adobo, ang iban sa aton, pat-od nga nagapulula ang mga tudlo sa kamot bangod sang pagkumos sang liso sang achiote ukon istiwitis agud ilakot sa aton nga sud-an.
Ang istiwitis ukon ang annatto amo ang sahi sang food coloring nga himo nagikan sa mga liso sang achiote.
Magluwas sa culinary uses sang istiwitis, madugay naman ini nga ginagamit para sa art sa South kag Central America kag ginagamit man agud bulngon ang pila ka mga medical condition.
Suno kay Ryan Raman, isa ka registered dietician sa Auckland, New Zealand, natukiban sa test-tube studies nga ang extracts sang istiwitis ang nagabulig suppress ukon pugong sang cancer cell growth kag nagapatay sang mga cells nga nagatuga sang cancer sa prostate, pancreas, atay kag panit.
Pahayag ni Raman, ini bangud manggaranon ang istiwitis sa anticancer properties kaangay sang carotenoids bixin kag norbixin, antioxidants kag tocotrienols nga isa ka sahi sang vitamin E.
Ang nasambit nga vitamin E compound nga yara sa istiwitis ang nagabulig man sa age-related heart issues.
Magluwas diri, ang mataas nga carotenoids sang istiwitis ang nagapromote man sang eye health.
Mga tawo nga mahilig magpulaw, mas mentally alert suno sa eksperto
Pamatyag mo angkon mo ang bilog nga kalibutan humalin las 10:00 sang gab-i tubtob kaagahon sa diin mas productive ka kag creative?
Nahibaluan nga ang pag-angkon sang kompleto nga tulog ang tuman ka importante para sa ikaayong lawas sang isa ka indibidwal.
Apang suno sa health expert, wala man sang problema ang baliskad nga sleeping pattern kag kun mas pabor sa isa ka indibidwal ang pagtrabaho kun gab-i sa baylo nga sa aga.
Sharad Paul, skin cancer specialist sa New Zealand, mas nagagana ang adenosine activity sa utok sang mga tawo nga nagabugtaw tubtob magkaagahon.
Pahayag sang doktor, madamo sang nagahambal nga nabudlayan ang mga nagapulaw kun gab-i sa pag-angkon sang focus apang kun ginabalanse lamang kag ginabawi ang tulog, makabig nga mas mentally alert ang mga nagabugtaw kun gab-i bangud sa nagadugang nga adenosine activity sa utok.
Dugang pa sang doktor, natukiban man nga ang mga tawo nga makabig nga ‘night owls’ ang may yara sang mataas nga inductive reasoning sa diin mas malawig ang enerhiya kag endurance sang mga ini.
Dahon sang bayabas, napatumud-an nga makapadula sang punggod
ILOILO CITY- Halos tanan sa aton ang nanamitan ukon makauyon gid sang bunga sang bayabas.
Apang, may ara bala sa inyo nga nagkainteres man sa dahon sini?
Nahibaluan naton nga ang bayabas ginakabig isa sa super fruits bangud sa gina-provide nga health benefits, manggaranon sa vitamin C, lycopene kag antioxidants nga maayo sa panit.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga ang guava leaves maayo man sa imo?
Ang ugbos sini pwede nga mahimo nga tsaa kag sa pagkamatuod, nangin kabahin na sang traditional medicine sa pila ka siglo sa Mexico kag South America.
Suno kay Delhi-based Nutritionist Anshul Jaibharat, ang dahon sini ang powerhouse sang antioxidants kaangay sang vitamin C, kag flavonoids kaangay sang quercetin.
Anju Sood, ang guava leaves mahimo magpanubo sang risk sang cancer ilabi na ang breast, prostate, kag oral cancers bangud sa mataas nga kantidad sang antioxidant lycopene.
Ini nagabulong man sa trangkaso kag ubo bangud sa iya high levels sang Vitamin C kag iron.
Sa mga conscious naman sa ila skin, ang dahon sang bayabas makabulig padula sang punggod bangud sa high percentage sang Vitamin C.
Ibutang mo lang ang crushed guava leaves sa apektado nga parti sang imo guya kag siya na ang bahala nga buligan ka nga madula ang imo punggod.
Bermuda grass, may makakilibot nga benepisyo nga dala sa ikaayong lawas
Mangin mahinalungon kita sa mga butang nga aton ginatapakan basi sila pa ang may dala sa aton sang kaayuhan.
Kaangay sang bermuda grass nga madamo gali sang dala nga benepisyo sa lawas.
Sa pagkamatuod, ang bermuda ang ginagamit sa Ayurvedic Medicine sa India sa linibo na ka tuig.
Paul Haider, isa ka spiritual teacher kag master herbalist, ang juice gikan sa bermuda grass ang maayo nga alkalizing agent, nga nagabulig sa stomach acid kag gastric ulcers, diabetes, anemia, detoxing, congestion, nagapabakod sang tul-an kag ngipon.
Ang bermuda grass isa ka maayo nga detoxing agent nga nagabulig sa pagtinlo sa atay kag cells sang lawas kag dugo paagi sa iya chlorophyll.
Ang Bermuda Grass juice naga- contain sang masobra 65% chlorophyll gani nga may ability ini nga mag boost sang produksyon sang hemoglobin kag red blood cell nga makabulig sa anemia.
Ang Bermuda Grass juice nagabukas sa baga kag nagatinlo sang congestion gani makabulig ini sa trangkaso, asthma, kag bronchitis.
Ang juice kon ipahid sa lawas ang makabulig sa minor rashes, irritations, kag ang paste sang Bermuda Grass ang makapugong sa pagdugo sang pilas sa panit.
Manggaranon man ini sa antioxidants nga nagabulig agud malikawan ang cardiovascular disease, strokes, kag cancer.
Mahigko nga kuko, masami nga ginatunaan sang madamo nga balatian
Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang masami ginatunaan sang madamo nga balatian amo ang indi maayo nga pagtatap sa imo mga kuko?
Natukiban sang mga eksperto nga ang warning signs sang mga systematic disease kaangay sang lupus kag anemia ang matumod sa mga kuko sang isa ka indibidwal.
Tamara Lior, dermatologist sa Florida sa Estados Unidos, kun ang mga mata naton amo ang window to the soul, amo man ang aton mga kuko, gani nagakadapat nga tatapon ini kag indi pagpatumbayaan.
Agud mapabilin ang healthy nga mga kuko sa mga tudlo sang kamot kag tiil, kag malikawan ang pila ka mga inpeksyon, yari ang pila ka mga panugyan sang doktor:
Dugang nga abiso ni Lior, agud masiguro nga healthy ang imo mga kuko, pakamaayuhon nga ipalantaw ini sa doktor.
Isa ka man bala sa nanamitan sang paminta ukon black pepper sa diin ginalakot mo ini sa imo kalo-kalo nga kan-on ukon tinig-ang?
Ang black pepper ukon paminta ang isa sa pinakabantog nga spices sa bilog nga kalibutan sa diin may yara ini sang medyo makahang nga sabor nga manamit ilakot sa madamo nga sahi sang dishes.
Apang sa likod sang paminta nga makit-an naton sa aton kusina, natukiban sang health experts nga ang ini nga sahi sang spices ang nagapalikaw sa pagkaguba sang cells sa lawas sang tawo.
Suno kay Makayla Meixner, registered dietitian nga nakabase sa Vail, Colorado, ini bangud manggaranon ang black pepper sa potent antioxidant nga ginatawag nga piperine.
Pahayag ni Meixner, sa test-tube studies, natukiban nga ang piperine sa paminta ang nagapahinay sang pagdoble sang breast, prostate kag colon cancer cells.
Dugang pa sang eksperto, paborable man ang paminta para sa mga indibidwal nga nagadiet bangud nagapabuhin sang ini sang appetite sa imo nga pagkaon.
Pagkanta, makapahagan- hagan sang paghuragok suno sa pagtuon
Manami man ukon libagon, nahibaluan naton nga may yara gid man sang positibo nga dulot ang pagkanta.
Suno sa isa ka pagtuon sang 2004, ang pagkanta nagapa- boost sang immune system kag nagabulig sa pagbato sa balatian.
Ang mga mahilig magkanta ang may yara sang mas mataas nga lebel sang immunoglobulin A, isa ka antibody nga ginapagwa sang lawas agud magbato sa infections.
Ang pagkanta nagapataas sang pain tolerance.
Sa pagkanta, ang aton lawas naga release sang endorphins nga hormone nga nagabulig sa pagpromote sang positive feelings, kag mahimo magpataas sang pain tolerance.
Suno sa mga eksperto, mahimo man makabulig sa mga nagahuragok ang pagkanta.
Ini naga-improve man sang lung function bangud ang pagkanta naga- involve sang madalom nga pagginhawa kag controlled use sang muscles sa respiratory system.
Ginapakita sa pagtuon nga ang breathing techniques nga ginagamit sa pagkanta ang mahimo maghatag sang benepisyo sa mga tawo nga may chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), asthma, cystic fibrosis, cancer, multiple sclerosis kag iban pa.
Liso sang abukado, makabulig sa paglikaw sa heart disease, heart failure kag stroke
ILOILO CITY- Sa tanan nga prutas nga aton ginakaon, masami nga ginahaboy lang naton ang ila liso.
Apang panumduma liwat kay may liso sang paborito mo nga prutas nga dapat hatagan mo sang tsansa nga buligan ang imo ikaayong lawas.
Ini amo ang liso sang abukado nga suno sa National University of Singapore, nakit-an nga may yara sang 70% sang antioxidant content .
Ang incredible fiber content nga may upod nga natural oils, vitamins kag minerals ang makabulig sa pag-improve sang digestion, reduced inflammation kag naangot man sa paglikaw sa development sang cancer cells.
Ang liso mahimo mo nga kihadon kag tuktukon kag isimpon sa imo nga pagkaon ukon ilimnon.
Tom Wu, isa ka physician nga ginpasidunggan sang American Cancer Society kag United Nations, nakumpirma niya nga ang avocado seeds nagatanyag sang most intense amounts sang soluble fiber.
Ang soluble fiber nagabulig sa pagkakas sang kolesterol sa cardiovascular system gani makabulig ini sa paglikaw sa heart disease, heart failure kag stroke.
Ang intense burst sang antioxidants sa abukado ang nagabulig sa pagpanubo sang oxidative stress nga tuga sang harmful UV rays sang adlaw kag amo man sang pollution kag chemicals.
Makabulig ini sa pag reduce sang visible signs sang aging, kag naga- rejuvenate sang tone kag condition sang skin tissue gani mas young- looking ang imo panit.
Ano bala ang maayo nga posisyon sa pagtulog?
Ginpaathag sang isa ka medical expert nga dako ang kabangdanan sang insakto nga posisyon sa pagtulog para sa ikaayong lawas.
Ang pagtulog ang kabahin na sang kabuhi apang ang masami nga problema sang kadam-an amo nga kun paano makatulog sang maayo.
Suno kay Debra Rose Wilson, health psychologist kag nurse sa Estados Unidos, kada tawo ang may yara sang preferred sleeping position apang nagakadapat ini nga i-modify sang maayo agud indi makompromiso ang ikaayong lawas.
Pahayag ni Wilson, ang pagtulog nga nakatakilid samtang nakabarikutot ang mga tiil ang makapaayo sang lower back pain, makapalikaw sa paghuragok kag maayo man para sa mga nagabusong.
Apang nagakadapat suno sa eksperto agud nga mangin mas komportable, nakaloose lamang ang posture sang lawas kag narelax ang mga tiil nga nakabarikutot.
Ang ‘Flat on your back’ ukon nagakaya nga sleeping position ang isa man sa may pinakamado nga health benefits bangud nagaprotekta ini sang spine sang lawas, kag makapaayo sang pagpalanakit sang tuhod.
Agud malikawan ang back pain sa pagtulog pakamaayuhon suno sa doktor nga butangan sang ulunan ang likod sang tuhod agud mabuhinan ang pressure sa spine.
Magluwas sa mga nasambit nga sleeping position, ginapanugyan sang doktor ang regular nga pag-ehersisyo kag paglikaw sa mga caffeinated drinks agud nga maangkon ang quality sleep kag makafunction sang normal ang lawas.
Pagkaon sang sago pagkatapos sang ehersiyo, makabulig sa lawas nga makarecover gilayon sa kakapoy
Humalin sa paborito naton nga taho kag sa subong nagbantog naman ang milktea, indi gid madula diri ang panakot nga sago.
Ang sago ang isa ka sahi sang starch nga naghalin sa tropical palm stems sa diin mabilog-bilog ini kag makalilingaw man nga usapon.
Ang sago ang nangin kabahin man sang staple starch sa iban nga mga pungsod kaangay sang Indonesia, Malaysia, kag Papua New Guinea.
Natukiban man sa mga pagtuon nga ang sago ang indi basta-basta lang nga sago bangud dako ang mahatag sini nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas ilabi na sa mga naga-ehersisyo.
Suno kay Ryan Raman, registered dietitian sa Auckland, New Zealand, manggaranon sa antioxidants kag resistant starch ang sago sa diin nagabulig ini pasangkad sang exercise performance.
Pahayag ni Raman, ang high carbohydrate content sang sago ang nagabulig prolong sang endurance activity kag nagapaboost sang energy sang isa ka indibidwal nga naga-ehersisyo.
Ang pagkaon sang sago pagkatapos sang ehersiyo ang makabulig man sa lawas nga makarecover sa kakapoy.
Ang antioxidants kag resistant starch sa sago ang makabuhin naman sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang heart disease.
Magluwas diri, ang resistant starch sa sago ang nagabulig man panubo sang blood sugar levels kag appetite, kag nagapa-improve sang digestion.
Dugang pa sang dietician, recommended man ang lemon sago pudding para sa mas healthy nga recipe kag pagkaon sang sago.
Diri kag ginapabukalan lamang ang sago sa tubig, lemon juice kag honey sa diin ini ang masami nga ginaserbe sa New Zealand.
Buhok sang mais, makabulig sa UTI kag heart disease
ILOILO CITY- Nay, nay nagadigamo ka bala subong?
Nagsulod man ayhan sa pinsar mo kon may pulos man bala ang buhok sang mais?
Siling sang Chinese physician nga si Lan Mao, ang corn silk naga- contain sang mga plant compounds nga mahimo mangin responsable para sa pila ka health effects.
Sa traditional Chinese kag Native American medicine, ginagamit ini sa pagbulong sang balatian kaangay sang prostate problems, malaria, urinary tract infections (UTIs), kag heart disease .
Sa mga pagtuon, nakit an man nagabulig ini sa pagpanubo sang blood pressure, cholesterol, blood sugar, kag inflammation.
Ang Corn silk natural nga manggaranon sa flavonoid antioxidants.
Ang Oxidative stress ang isa sa nagapanguna nga kabangdanan sangchronic conditions kaangay sang diabetes, heart disease, cancer, kag inflammation.
Ang Corn silk mahimo nga mangin natural alternative sa prescribed diuretics, nga masami nagareduce sang blood pressure.
Gapamangkot kamo kon ano himuon ninyo sa buhok sang mais?
Mahimo ini magamit nga fresh apang masami ini ginapamala bag-o kunsumohon bilang tea ukon extract.
Pagkaon sang panit sang saging, makabulig sa paglikaw sa heart disease, cancer kag diabetes
Kun magkaon kita sang prutas sang saging, ginahaboy mo man bala gilayon ang panit sini?
Samtang pamilyar ang kadam-an sa matam-is kag fruity nga unod sang saging, gamay lamang ang nagventure agud testingan ang panit sini.
Suno kay Adda Bjarnadottir, isa ka registered nutritionist sa Iceland, magluwas nga malikawan ang food waste, indi pa mauyang ang vitamins kag minerals nga mahatag sang banana peel ukon ang panit sang saging sa diin epektibo ini nga panglakip sa diet.
Manggaranon man ang panit sang saging sang pila ka key nutrients kalakip na ang potassium, dietary fiber, polyunsaturated fats, kag essential amino acids.
Ang fiber nga yara sa panit sang saging amo ang nagabalanse sang blood sugar levels kag nagapaboost sang heart health.
Samtang ang potassium naman nga yara man sa banana peel ang nagabulig sa pagregulate sang blood pressure levels kag nagapabuhin sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang kidney stones.
Pahayag sang nutritionist, manggaranon man ang panit sang saging sa antioxidants nga nagapabuhin sang inflammation kag nagaproteher sa lawas sang tawo batok sa nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian kaangay sang heart disease, cancer kag diabetes.
Ang banana peel ukon ang panit sang saging ang mahimo nga i-bake, pabukalan, ukon prituhon kag mahimo man lutuon sa nagkalain-lain nga recipe
Mga tawo nga may bad breath, dako ang posibilidad nga may balatian sa kidney
Dako ang posibilidad nga may balatian sa kidney ang isa ka-tawo nga may yara sang bad breath.
Glynis Tingson, Nephrologist, iya ginpahayag nga ang kidney sang tawo amo ang isa ka pares sang fist-sized, bean-shaped organs nga nahamtang sa back muscles sang upper abdomen.
Responsable ang mga kidney sang tawo sa paglimpyo sang 110-140 ka litro sang dugo kada adlaw.
Nagabalanse man ang kidney sang fluid sa lawas sang tawo samtang ginabalanse man ang suplay sang electrolytes kaangay sang potassium kag sodium.
Suno kay Tingson, isa sa mga sintomas sang balatian sa kidney amo ang bad breath sa tion nga indi na normal ang paghaboy sang amo organ sang urea.
Pahayag sang doktor, sa tion nga mag-occur ang uremia sa kidney sang tawo, nagaresulta ini sang bad breath ukon baho nga ginatawag nga ammonia.
Nagatuga ini sang metallic taste sa mga bibig kalakip na ang pagkadula sang gana sa pagkaon kag pagnubo sang kabug-aton.
Agud malikawan ini suno sa doktor, yari ang pila ka mga tips;
Sa pihak sini, gin-athag man sang doktor nga ‘safe’ naman ang COVID-19 vaccine para sa mga pasyente nga may balatian nga advanced kidney disease.
Gata sang lubi, makabulig sa pagpaniwang
Madamo sa aton ang pat-od nga paborito ang mga sud-an nga ginalakipan sang ingredient nga gata sang lubi.
Kaangay na lamang sang utan nga tambo, ginat-an nga pantat, ensalada nga langka kag iban pa.
Apang ang gata sang lubi ang indi lamang nagapanamit sang linuto bangud natukiban sang medical experts nga ini man ang epektibo nga remedyo sa pagpaniwang.
Suno kay Natalie Butler, Registered kag Licensed Dietician, ang coconut milk ukon ang gata sang lubi ang may yara sang medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs), nga naangot sa weight loss ukon pagpaniwang.
Ang MCTs ang nagastimulate sang enerhiya pinaagi sa proseso nga ginatawag nga thermogenesis, ukon heat production.
Pahayag ni Butler, ang MCTs nga yara sa gata sang lubi ang responsable sa pagbalanse sang gut microbiota sa lawas sang tawo nga nagapalikaw sa obesity.
Ang MCTs ang nagapadugang man sang insulin sensitivity nga nagapromote sang weight loss.
Ang insulin suno sa doktor amo ang isa ka essential hormone nga nagabreak down sang glucose kag nagakontrol sang blood sugar levels.
Magluwas sa pagpaniwang, nagapaboost man sang immune system ang gata sang lubi bangud manggaranon man ini sa lauric acid nga puno sang antimicrobial kag anti-inflammatory properties.
Huya-huya, makabulig sa mga tawo nga may insomnia
Isa ka man bala sa nalingaw sa tanom nga ginatawag nga ‘touch me not’ ukon makahiya plant?
Nahibaluan nga ang nasambit nga tanom ang isa sa mga naghatag sang amazement sa aton sang lamharon pa lamang.
Ini bangud makalilingaw ang pagkipot kag pagduko sang tanom kun tandugon ini rason man kun ngaa ginpangalanan ini nga ‘huya-huya’ bangud sa mahuluy-on nga characteristic.
Apang ang Mimosa Pudica ukon ang Makahiya ang natukiban sa mga pagtuon kag pila ka medical experts nga madamo ini sang mahatag nga mabaskog nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay Stephanie Nicole Nera, Doctor of Pharmacy, ang juice sang Makahiya plant ang ginagamit agud bulngon ang mga masunod nga health issues:
Pahayag ni Nera, ini bangud manggaranon ang makahiya sa anti-stress properties, antioxidant, amino acids, tannins, flavonoids, alkaloids kag iban pa nga anti-inflammatory properties.
Ginakabig man ang makahiya bilang antibacterial, analgesic, antidepressant, antispasmodic, kag diuretic.
Magluwas sa mga nasambit nga balatian suno sa doktor, makabulig man ang juice halin sa mga dahon sang makahiya sa pagbulong sang excessive menstrual bleeding.
Kadyos, makabulig sa mga tawo nga hypertensive
ILOILO CITY- Indi kompleto ang KBL kon wala sang kadyos.
Magluwas nga pagpanamit ini sang luto, ang kadyos ukon pigeon pea ang manggaranon sa protein, dietary fiber, thiamine, magnesium, phosphorous, potassium, copper , manganese, iron kag selenium.
Ano bala ang sarang sini mabulig sa imo lawas?
Suno kay Dr.Swarnshikha Sharma, isa ka Psychology Dietitian/Nutritionist, ang Potassium sa pigeon pea ang nagaakto bilang vasodilator kag nagapanubo sang blood pressure.
Gani ang mga tawo nga may hypertension ang dapat magdugang gid sang kadyos sa ila daily diet.
Ang kadiyos maayo man nga source sang folate nga nagabulig likaw sa anemia kag depekto sa ginabusong nga lapsag.
Bangud ang kadyos, low in calories, cholesterol kag saturated fats, maayo nga option ini para sa weight loss.
Ang presensiya sang dietary fiber ang nagahatag sang pamatyagan nga busog ikaw, nagapataas sang metabolic rate kag nagabulig sa pagbuhin sang bug-at.
Ang nutrients nga yara sa kadyos ang naga- convert sa enerhiya nga magamit sang lawas sa baylo nga taguon ini bilang fat.
Ini ang pila lamang sa madamo nga benepisyo sang pagkaon sang kadiyos.
Ti magkaon ka na sini bangod ang kadyos, bugay sang Diyos.
Wala sang preferred ukon specific nga brand sang COVID-19 vaccines para sa mga cancer patients ukon may history sang nasambit nga balatian.
Anita Jesena, Oncologist, iya ginpahayag nga ang mga tawo nga may cancer ukon may history sang sini nga balatian, ang mahimo makapabakuna sa bisan ano nga brand sang COVID-19 vaccine nga aprubado sang Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
Suno kay Jesena, importante man nga antes magpabakuna ang isa ka pasyente nga may cancer, nakapakig-angot kag may abiso ini nga nabaton sa iya personal nga medical specialist ukon medical oncologist.
Pahayag sang doktor, ang tanan man nga COVID-19 vaccine nga may yara sang emergency use authorization (EUA) ang epektibo kag safe nga gamiton.
Nakadepende man suno kay Jesena sa rekomendasyon sang medical doctor sang isa ka cancer patient kun san-o ini nagakadapat nga magbaton sang COVID-19 vaccination.
Sa tunga sang nagapadayon nga pandemya, ang iban nag-ala ‘professional chef’ na sa ila tagsa ka mga balay bangud sa pagtuon sang nagkalain-lain nga mga recipe halin sa internet.
Apang ang imo pagluto kag pagpreparar sang pagkaon sa aga, udto kag hapon ang indi lamang makabulong sa imo kagutom.
John Moore, senior health specialist sa Pennsylvania sa Estados Unidos, ang pagluto kag pagtuon sang mga recipe ang makapaboost sang mental kag physical health.
Pahayag ni Moore, ang pagluto kag pagtuon sang bag-o nga recipe ang isa ka stimulating activity nga makahatag sang powerful cognitive benefits sa utok.
Ang pagluto suno kay Moore ang makapasangkad man sang self-confidence bangud nagahatag ini sang sense of independence sa isa ka tawo nga magpili sang ingredients nga kihadon kag panakot nga ilakot sa linuto.
Pabor man ang pagluto suno sa doktor sa mga tigulang bangud isa ini sa pamaagi nga mangin busy, focused kag alerto sa gihapon ang ila paminsaron samtang naga-enjoy sa pagluto sang paborito nga sud-an ukon recipe.
Ginatos ka mga vaccinated health workers sa Indonesia, nagpositibo sa COVID-19
Padayon ang vaccination program sa Indonesia sa pihak sang pagpositibo sa COVID-19 sang 350 ka mga doctor kag medical workers apisar nabakunahan na gamit ang China made Sinovac vaccines.
Suno kay Bombo International Correspondent Stella Marie Arungayan direkta sa Indonesia, kadam-an sa mga medical workers ang asymptomatic kag naka-home quarantine naman.
Apang madamo subong ang na admit sa mga ospital bangud sa pagbatyag sang mataas nga hilanat.
Pahayag ni Arungayan, posible nga Delta variant ang nagtapik nga virus sa mga healthcare workers sa diin ini ang ginapatihan nga mas makalalaton.
Ang mga medical personnel amo ang una nga ginbakunahan sa Indonesia sang nag-umpisa ang ila inoculations sang Enero.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Indonesian Medical Association nga kadam-an sa mga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 amo ang mga nakabaton sang vaccine nga gindevelop sang Chinese biopharmaceutical company Sinovac.
Nahibaluan nga subong nga bulan lang sang Hunyo gin-aprubahan sang World Health Organization (WHO) ang emergency use sang Sinovac vaccine.
Pagkaon sang uga, makapalikaw sa depression
Bantog na sa mga Filipino ang pamahaw nga uga nga may pares nga mainit nga kan-on.
May yara sang wala nagakaon sang uga bangud sa baho sini apang paborito naman ini sang iban.
Magluwas nga makagalana ini bilang kalakip sang pamahaw kun aga, nakahibalo ka bala nga manggaranon ang uga sa nutristansya nga makabulig sa pagpasangkad sang imo ikaayong lawas?
Brahmanand Nayak, author, healthcare strategist kag visionary sa Bangalore, India, ang proteins, vitamins kag minerals nga yara sa uga ang epektibo nga pambato sa high blood pressure.
Ang omega-3 fatty acids kag vitamin D nga yara sa uga ang makatapna naman sang pila ka mental health issues.
Pahayag ni Nayak, ang uga ang may yara sang natural anti-depressant nutrients nga makapakalma sang mood swings sang tawo kag nagapalikaw sa depression.
Ang omega-3 acids ukon healthy fat nga yara sa uga, ang ginakabig nga ‘essential’ para sa ikaayong lawas, kag nagabulig man sa proper functioning sang utok kag mga mata sang tawo.
Liso sang langka, makabulig pukaw sang sexual pleasure
Sa mga mahilig magkaon sang prutas nga jackfruit ukon langka, masami mo bala nga ginahaboy gilayon ang liso sini?
Nahibal-an mo bala nga ang jackfruit seeds ukon ang liso sang langka ang napamatud-an nga epektibo sa pagbuild sang muscles, nagapalikaw sa balatian nga anemia kag makabulig pasangkad sang imo sexual pleasure?
Suno kay Ariana Fiorita, Registered and Licensed Dietitian kag Functional Nutritionist sa Cleveland, Florida, USA, ang jackfruit seeds ukon ang liso sang langka ang manggaranon sa iron nga amo ang importante nga component sang hemoglobin.
Ang iron nga yara sa liso sang langka ang nagapadugang sa produksyon sang red blood cells nga nagapaboost sang immunity sang tawo kag nagapalikaw sa balatian nga anemia.
Ginpahayag ni Fiorita nga ang liso sang langka ang ginagamit man bilang traditional Asian medicine agud bunglon ang sexual disorders.
Ini bangud ang iron nga yara sa liso sang langka ang nagapukaw sang sexual pleasure sang tawo.
Magluwas diri, manggaranon man sa protein ang liso sang langka nga nagabulig sa pagbuild sang muscles sa diin pwede mo gid ini madugang sa imo nga diet food.
Health experts, nagapati nga ang COVID-19 vaccine ang sabat agud mapauntat ang pandemya
Nagakadapat nga ma-immune ang tanan sa COVID-19 agud malimitahan kag mapauntat ang paglapta sini.
Ini ang hugot nga ginaduso sang Philippine College of Physicians Western Visayas-Panay Chapter.
Aime Fabila, presidente sang Philippine College of Physicians Western Visayas-Panay Chapter, iya ginpahayag nga nagakadapat nga mag-angkon ang 70 percent nga populasyon sang pungsod sang acquired immunity.
Ang acquired immunity ang makuha pinaagi sa pagpabakuna batok sa COVID-19.
Ang natural immunity naman ang natural nga antibodies nga ginaproduce sang lawas sang tawo apang ini ang makabig nga kulang sa pagpakig-away batok sa COVID-19.
Ang COVID-19 vaccine ang nagatudlo sa lawas sang tawo nga batuan kag likawan ang amo nga virus.
Nagapati si Fabila nga ang pagpabakuna batok sa COVID-19 ang dako nga pamaagi agud mapauntat ang pandemya.
James Catoto, isa sa mga board of director sang Philippine College of Physicians Western Visayas-Panay Chapter, yara na sa stage 3 sang clinical trial ang COVID-19 vaccine sa diin ginatestingan na ini sa minilyon nga tawo sa kalibutan agud matumod ang pagka-epektibo sini.
Catoto, iya ginpahayag nga ang COVID-19 vaccine ang may yara sang attenuated virus kag spike protein nga nagahatag sang immunity nga nagabulig sa paglikaw sa isa ka indibidwal nga matapikan sang virus.
Apang ang kadasigon sa pagdevelop sang immunity ang nakadepende sa kondisyon sang lawas sang tawo.
Ginapahayag sang natungdan nga samtang wala pa nalab-ot sang pungsod ang pagpabakuna sa 70 percent sang populasyon, nagakadapat nga indi magkampante ang mga nakabaton na sang vaccine kag istrikto sa gihapon nga magsunod sa tanan nga health protocol.
Matandaan nga santo sa World Health Organization, posible nga matapikan sang COVID-19 ang isa ka indibidwal nga vaccinated apang indi mangin severe ukon malala ang kondisyon.
Sa tanan nga kaaslom nga imo natilawan sa kabuhi, nakahibalo ka bala nga ang pampa-aslom nga prutas nga ‘Batuan’ ang isa sa may pinakamadamo nga mahatag nga benepisyo sa imo ikaayong lawas?
Ang Batuan fruit ukon ginatawag man nga Garcinia Binucao amo ang bantog nga pampa-aslom sa mga niluto sang Ilonggo kag Negrense.
Ang shape sini ang kaangay sang iya ka Patatas apang green ang iya nga duag.
Santo sa pagtuon sa University of the Philippines Los Baños, ang prutas nga “Batuan” ang manggaranon sa vitamin C, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, iron, kag trace levels sang zinc, copper kag manganese.
Ang mga nasambit nga mineral nga makit-an sa Batuan ang makabulig panubo sang cholesterol levels sang tawo.
Natukiban man sa pagtuon nga ang batuan ang puno man sang anti-obesity properties sa diin epektibo ini para sa mga tawo nga luyag magpaniwang.
Para naman sa mga tawo nga diabetic, ang dahon sang batuan ang napamatud-an man nga epektibo sa pagpanubo sang blood sugar level.
Mga kabataan nga nagaedad 5 tubtob 15 anyos, may mataas nga risgo sa balatian nga rheumatic heart disease
Mas madasig nga matapikan sang balatian nga rheumatic fever kag rheumatic heart disease ang mga kabataan nga naga-edad lima tubtob 15 anyos.
James Catoto, Specialist in Internal Medicine – Cardiology sa West Visayas State University Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga ang rheumatic heart disease amo ang kondisyon sa diin ang valves sang tagipusuon sang tawo ang permanente nga naguba tuga sang rheumatic fever.
Catoto, ang rheumatic heart disease ang ginatunaan sang rheumatic fever nga amo ang isa ka inflammatory nga balatian sa diin maapektuhan sini ang mga nagaalangot-angot nga tisyu sang lawas ilabi na sa tagipusuon, panit, joints kag utok.
Bangud sini, ang valve sa tagipusuon sang tawo ang nagabanog sa diin sa paglawig sang panahon, nagakaguba ini.
Ini ang nagaresulta sa indi normal nga pagfunction sang heart kag nagahulog sa balatian nga heart failure.
May dako man nga risgo nga makaangkon sang balatian nga rheumatic heart disease ang mga kabataan nga indi gilayon madapatan sang pagbulong ang mga inpeksyon sa lawas ilabi na ang strep throat infections.
Ginpahayag ni Catoto nga bangud ang rheumatic fever ang ginahalinan sang rheumatic heart disease, ang pinakamaayo nga treatment diri amo ang likawan ang rheumatic fever pinaagi sa paggamit sang antibiotics agud mapaayo ang trep infections.
Pagkaon sang repolyo, makapanubo sa risgo sa pag-angkon sang balatian sa tagipusuon
Atensyon sa mga tawo nga paborito ang repolyo.
Bisan diin may yara sang repolyo kag mabakal lang ini sa manubo nga presyo.
Kun luyag mo ang manami nga supat, kun target mo ang magpaniwang kag makapabakod pa sang imo immune system, repolyo lang bastante na agud maangkon kag matuman ang imo nga kagustuhan.
Suno sa Philippine Dietary Reference Intakes (PDRI) , ang pag kaon sang repolyo ang makabulig sa imo likaw batuk sa radiation, cancer kag makapanubo risgo sa pag-angkon sang balatian sa tagipusuon.
Ini ang nagapataas man sang lebel sang beta-carotene, lutein kag iban pa nga heart-protective antioxidants.
Benepisyo sang langka sa imo ikaayong lawas, aton hibaluon
Luyag mo bala nga mangin firm kag smooth ang imo nga panit nga wala mo ginagamitan sang cream ukon gina-imnan sang mga bulong?
Panigurado nga maproteheran sini ang imo nga panit gikan sa sun damage bangud may yara ini sang mataas nga amount sang vitamin C.
Suno kay Rujuta Diweka , isa ka celebrity nutritionist, magluwas sa pampanami sang imo nga supat, may yara man ini sang natural chemical nga makabulig likaw sa ulcer.
Ang langka ang good source man sang fiber .
Pahayag sang eksperto, kun magkaon ikaw sang langka, mahinay kag amat-amat lang sini nga ginadigest sang imo nga lawas rason nga indi madasig ang pagsaka sang imo nga blood sugar.
Gani kadam-an sa mga nagakaon sang langka amo ang mga tawo nga may diabetes.
Makabulig man ini panubo sang blood pressure nga mahimo magtuga sang heart disease, stroke kag bone loss.
Bougainvillea Flowers, mahimo gamiton bilang facial cleanser; Anti-inflammatory agents, makapaayo sang joint pain
Masapakan mo man bala ang mga nagabukadkad nga mga bulak bisan diin lamang?
Subong nga bulan kilala ang Flores de Mayo sa diin masami naton nga makit-an ang bantog nga bulak sa aton ugsaran nga amo ang Bougainvillea Flowers.
Samtang madamo ang nagadayaw sa simple kag matahom nga Bougainvillea Flowers, ginadayaw na man sang mga eksperto sa medikal ang ini nga sahi sang bulak bangud madamo nga balatian ang mapaayo sini.
Michelle Heben, internal medicine specialist sa Ann Arbor, Michigan, ang components sang Bougainvillea Flowers ang may yara sang natural body detoxifier nga makapatinlo kag makabulig kakas sang toxins sa lawas sang tawo nga masami makuha sa unhealthy nga diet kag polusyon sa palibot.
Ang nasambit nga bulak ang may yara man sang antiseptic property sa diin pwede ini gamiton bilang facial cleanser bangud nagapalikaw ini sa acne ukon punggod.
Indi man magkabalaka ang mga tawo nga may mataas nga acid bangud ang pag-inom naman sang tea nga himo sa Bougainvillea Flowers, ang makapabuhin sang high acidity sa tyan.
Ang amo nga bulak ang manggaranon man sa anti-inflammatory agents nga nagapaayo sa joint pain kaangay sang sakit sa tuhod.
Heben, ang flower petals sang bougainvillea ang makapaayo man sang mga masunod:
Anom ka barangay sa Iloilo City, posible nga i-lockdown
Posible nga ipaidalom sa lockdown ang anom ka mga barangay sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Kasunod sang pagsaka sang COVID-19 cases, ginaplanuhan na sang COVID-19 team nga i-lockdown ang pila ka bahin ukon ang bug-os nga barangay sang:
Jeck Conlu, spokesperson sang COVID-19 Team sang Iloilo City Government, iya ginpahayag nga nakigsapol na sila sa mga barangay officials sang nasambit nga mga lugar agud makahatag sang giya kun paano patigayunon ang plano nga paglockdown.
Suno kay Conlu, ginapreparar naman ang tanan nga kinahanglanon sang mga barangay kaangay sang bulig nga ayuda.
May iga-augment man nga mga police personnel nagikan sa Iloilo City Police Office agud magbantay kag magpatigayon sang checkpoint sa anom ka barangay.
Ginpahayag sang natungdan nga ang nutumod nga mga barangay ang may pinakamataas nga narekord nga COVID-19 cases humalin Mayo 1 tubtob Mayo 23.
Dahon sang paho, makapanubo sang blood pressure
Bulan sang Mayo, bulan sang matam-is nga mga paho bangud ini ang ginakabig isa sa mga summer fruits kag perfect gid para sa desserts.
Apang sin-o bala magdumdom nga ang matam-is, juicy kag manamit nga prutas kaangay sang paho ang mangin healthy superfood?
Nakahibalo ka bala nga may yara man sang benepisyo ang mango leaves?
Farrah Agustin-Bunch, ang dahon sang paho ang tuman ka mapuslanon sa pagbulong sang diabetes.
Kun mataas ang imo nga blood pressure, ang dahon sang paho ang makabulig sa pagpanubo sang imo nga dugo bangud may yara ini sang hypotensive properties.
Sa mga tawo nga nagasuprer gikan sa restlessness tuga sang anxiety, ang dahon sang paho ang mahimo man nga mangin maayo nga home remedy.
Butangi lang sang mga dahon ang imo nga tubig pampaligo.
Ini ang makabulig sa imo nga maka-relax kag marefresh ang imo nga lawas.
Lomboy, makahatag sa imo sang glowing skin suno sa nutritionist
ukon luyag mo nga makalikaw sa balatian?
Ang bulong ang mahimo yara lang makit-an sa imo nga ugsaran ukon dira man sa imo nga kasilingan.
Panigurado nga ma pa WOW ka sa mga benepisyo nga mahatag sini sa imo ikaayong lawas.
Kadam-an sa inyo ang wala na kun kaisa ginasapak ang prutas nga lomboy ukon Java Plum kun sa ingles.
Manggaranon ini sa iron, magnesium kag vitamin C.
Suno kay Pooja Makhija, isa ka Nutritionist, kun may diabetes ikaw, indi magkabalaka bangud ang lomboy ang mahimo mo sa gihapon nga makaon bangud may yara ini sang nutrient nga ginatawag jambosin compounds, alkaloids, kag jambosin glycosides nga makabulig agud i-convert ang sugar sa energy agud mangin estable ang imo nga blood sugar level.
Bangud man nga may yara sang madamo nga antioxidant ang lomboy, makabulig ini agud malikawan ang cancer.
Kun nagaproblema ka naman sa imo nga panit bangud luyag mo ini nga mangin soft, indi na magbakal pa sang mga habon ukon cream bangud ang lomboy ang makahatag man sa imo sang glowing skin bangud may yara ini sang antioxidant compounds kag vitamin C kun masami mo ini ginakaon.
Gani kun wala ka sang lomboy sa inyo ugsaran kag ang imo nga kasilingan ang may yara, indi maghuya-huya nga magpangayo kag ipakigbahin man sa iya ang amazing benefits sang lomboy.
Star apple — ano ang mabulig sa imo ikaayong lawas?
Paborito mo man bala ang pagpaningit sang bunga ukon pagsaka gid gani sa puno sang star apple?
Gusto-gusto gid ini himuon sang mga kabataan, pero ano bala ang sarang ihatag sang star apple sa imo ikaayong lawas?
Ang star apple ang makabulig kontrol sa imo blood sugar level gani nga ideal food ini para sa mga tawo nga nagasuprer sang diabetes.
Suno pa kay Kris Gunnars, isa ka nutrition researcher sang website nga Authority Nutrition nga sa idalom na sang Healthline media, manggaranon ang star apple sa antioxidants kag makabulig proteher sa aton lawas batok sa health problems kaangay sang cancer kag iban pa nga sakit sa tagipuson.
Bangud manubo man sa fat and calories, isa man ini sa best food choices kun ikaw may ginasunod nga weight loss diet.
May yara ini sang high amount sang dietary fiber gani nga indi ka madali magutom kag malikawan mo man ang pagkaon sang madamo.
Manggaranon man ini sa Vitamin C nga amo ang nagaakto nga antioxidant nga responsable para sa production sang collagen, pag-improve sang immune health, pagpasanag sang mata, kag paglikaw sa fatal diseases kaangay sang cancer kag heart disease.
Tubig-ulan, makahatag sang healthy skin kag buhok
Sang ikaw lamharon, nagaka-excite ka man bala magpaligo sa ulan?
Nakaeksperyensya ka man bala mag-inom sang tubig nga nagahalin sa langit?
Santo sa rainwatertanksdirect.com, madamo sang benepisyo nga mahatag sa ikaayong lawas ang pag-inom sang tubig-ulan.
Ini bangud may yara ini sang alkaline pH nga may detoxifying effects nga nagapromote sang healthy digestion.
Bangud man sa alkaline pH nga yara sa tubig-ulan, mabuligan sini ang lawas nga makafunction sang normal.
Ini ang may yara man sang manubo nga mineral content ipaanggid sa public drinking water nga masami may yara sang flouride kag chlorine nga nagaresulta sa gastritis, sakit sang ulo kag pagkaguba sang body organs.
Ang pag-inom sang tubig ulan ang makahatag man sang healthy skin kag buhok bangud ang alkaline pH nga content sini ang nagabulig agud mapabilin ang natural nga moisture sang panit kag nagapromote sang healthy hair growth.
Ang pag-inom sang tubig ulan ang wala lamang nagapa-improve sang ikaayong lawas kundi nagabulig man sa imo sa pagconserve sang enviroment.
Mga tawo nga may balatian sa tagipusuon, wala sang dapat kabalak-an sa pagpabakuna batok sa COVID-19
Wala sang dapat kabalak-an ang mga tawo nga may balatian sa tagipusuon nga luyag magpabakuna batok sa COVID-19.
James Catoto, Specialist in Internal Medicine – Cardiology sa West Visayas State University Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga ang mga tawo nga may nanuhay-tuhay nga balatian sa tagipusuon ang may dako nga risgo nga maka-angkon sang COVID-19.
Ang COVID-19 ang may nagkalain-lain nga epekto sa lawas sang tawo sa diin ang iban nga pasyente ang maka-angkon sang asymptomatic condition ukon wala sa sintomas sa virus, mildy symptomatic ukon may yara sang indi malala nga sintomas kag severe COVID-19 sa diin ini ang pinakakritikal kag delikado.
Suno kay Catoto, ang mga tawo nga may commorbidities kaangay sang nagkalain-lain nga balatian sa tagipusuon, ang may dako nga posibilidad nga maka-angkon sang severe COVID-19.
Bangud sini, mas maayo nga dulaon sang mga tawo nga may immunodeficiency ukon may yara na sang balatian, ang kahangawa kag magdesisyon sa pagpabakuna batok sa nasambit nga virus.
Importante suno kay Catoto nga magpangayo sang clearance sa iya doktor antes magpabakuna ang isa ka tawo nga may balatian sa tagipusuon.
Para naman sa mga tawo nga may maintenance ukon may gina-inom nga bulong, nagakadapat man nga magpangayo sang abiso sa doktor agud mahibaluan kun mahimo ini makapabakuna batok sa COVID-19 ukon indi.
Gin-athag man sang doktor nga ang isa ka tawo nga may balatian sa tagipusuon nga kompleto sa check-up sa doktor, wala sang hapo kag kontrolado ang sugar level sang lawas ang mahimo gid nga makapabakuna agud maproteksyunan ang kaugalingon sa makamamatay nga COVID-19.
Lagundi nga nagatubo sa inyo ugsaran kag masami ginagamit nga bulong sa ubo, posible mangin supplement treatment sa mild coronavirus
Malapit na lang matapos ang clinical trial sa Pilipinas sa paggamit sang herbal medicine nga lagundi bilang supplement treatment sa mild coronavirus.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Lazarte, iya ginpahayag nga may mga follow-ups na lang nga ginatapos sa gamay na lang nga mga pasyente sa Stage 2 sang clinical trial.
Pagkatapos sini, tipunon na ang data kag i-analyze sang mga ekperto kun ano ang epekto sini nga herbal medicine sa mga pasyente nga naga-suprer sang mild COVID-19.
Kun balik-balikan ang Stage 1, may dose finding nga ginpatigayon; ginhibalo kun ano ang kinalain sang high dose sa normal dose nga ginahatag sa mga 200 ka COVID-19 patients nga may mild symptoms sa selected nga quarantine facilities.
Santo sa nangin resulta, natukiban nga ‘halos pareho lang’ ang epekto sang normal dose sa high dose kag minimal lang ang reported nga adverse reactions.
Lakip sa minimal nga adverse reactions amo ang rashes kag diarrhea.
Ang lagundi ang may yara sang anti-inflammatory compound nga mahimo makabulong sa moderate tubtob severe nga inflammation sang COVID-19 patient nga may sintomas nga ginabatyag kaangay sang ubo.
May mga pagtuon man nga nagapahayag nga may yara sang Persiphen kag Vitexin compound nga yara sa lagundi nga mahimo mangin anti-viral properties.
Tun-an suno kay Lazarte kun paano ma-address sang lagundi ang iban nga sintomas sang COVID-19 kaangay sang kabudlay sa pagginhawa magluwas pa sa pagbulig-buhin sini sa virus sa lawas sang tawo.
Ang target gid suno sa doktora amo nga mabuligan ang mga naka-home quarantine lang nga pasyente kag mabulong ang mild coronavirus agud nga indi na maglab-ot sa moderate kag severe cases.
Target nga ma-analyze na ang resulta sa masunod nga mga semana.
Matandaan nga Hulyo 2020 sang gin-anunsyo nga gin-aprubahan sang DOST-Philippine Council for Health Research and Development ang clinical trial sa lagundi.
Agusto 2020 naman sang naghatag ang FDA sang approval sa clinical trials sa lagundi bilang supplemental treatment batok sa COVID-19.
Subay, manggaranon sang cancer prevention agents
Sa tion nga masubayan ang aton pagkaon indi manigar nga nagainit ang aton nga ulo.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga natukiban sa mga pagtuon nga ang subay madamo sang protein, kag manggaranon sa vitamins kag minerals?
Alyssa Crittenden, Associate Professor of Anthropology sang University of Nevada, Las Vegas, ang insekto nga subay ang manggaranon man sa unsaturated fatty acids nga amo ang nagapalikaw sa mataas nga cholesterol.
Ginpahayag ni Crittenden nga ang subay nga ‘Hormigas culonas’ ukon mas kilala sa tawag nga “big-butt ant” ang nagabalor sang kapin P5,000 kada kilo bangud sa tuman kataas nga nutritional value nga mahatag sini sa ikaayong lawas.
Nagapalikaw man sa sa balatian nga cancer suno sa doktor ang pagkaon sang subay bangud madamo ini sang cancer prevention agents.
Nahibaluan nga sa China, ang pagkaon sang subay ang nangin kabahin na sang healthy diet sang mga tawo kag ginagamit man bilang bulong sa sulod na sang 3,000 ka-tuig.
Suno kay Zhang Zhilin, vice chairman sang Chinese entomological society, bangud sa formic acid kag mga mineral traces nga makit-an sa subay, epektibo man ini agud matapna ang balatian nga rheumatism.
Mga utanon nga manggaranon sa Lutein kag Vitamin A, nagapalikaw sa balatian nga Glaucoma
Mahimo matapna ang severe nga balatian sa mata pinaagi sa pagkaon sang mga utanon nga manggaranon sa lutein kag Vitamin A.
Karen Francia, isa ka Opthalmologist, iya ginpahayag nga nagakadapat nga indi pagpabay-an ang mga mata bangud naga-angkon man ini sang balatian kag posible nga maguba kun indi pagtipigan kag hatagan sang igtalupangod.
Suno kay Francia, agud makalikaw sa mga seryoso kag severe nga balatian sa mata kaangay sang glaucoma, diabetic eye disease kag catarata, mahimo sundon ang mga masunod:
Dugang nga abiso sang doktor, mas maayo nga ipahuway sang masami ang mga mata kun may tinion kag magtulog sa sulod sang pito tubtob walo ka oras adlaw-adlaw.
Isa na naman ka hugnat sang Dugong Bombo, ginhiwat sa Passi City
ILOILO CITY- Nangin madinalag-on ang isa na naman ka hugnat sang Dugong Bombo paagi sa pag-updanay sang Local Government Unit sang Passi City kag Bombo Radyo Iloilo.
Ini ang ginpatigayon sa Barangay Salngan sa amo nga syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Roy Laxa sang Barangay Salngan, iya ginpahayag nga dungog para sa iya nga mangin kabahin ang iya lugar sa mga areas nga ginhiwatan sang bloodletting activity.
Suno sa iya, wala nauyang ang tiempo nga ginhatag sang mga volunteer blood donors bangud nga madamo na naman ang masugpunan sang kabuhi sang ila gindonar nga dugo.
Nahibaluan nga gin-cluster ang mga barangays sa Passi City para sa sini nga aktibidad sa diin nag-upod man sa bloodletting ang Barangay Gemumua-Agahon, Barangay Agtabo, Barangay Dalicanan, Barangay Tagubong, Barangay Alimono, Barangay Jaguimitan, kag Barangay Magdungao.
Pagsimhot sang baho sang kape, nagapasangkad sang mental functioning sang isa ka tawo
Ang pag-inom sang kape ang napamatud-an na sadto pa lang nga nagahatag sang madamo nga health benefits.
Apang nahibalo-an mo man bala nga apisar indi mo na pag-imnon ang imo kape, maka-angkon ka sa gihapon sang benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas?
Natukiban sa resulta sang pagtuon sang Journal of Environmental Psychology sa Estados Unidos nga ang mga tawo nga nakapanimaho kag nakasimhot sang baho sang kape apisar wala ini gin-inom ang naka-angkon mental boost kag nagsangkad ang ila productivity.
Sa isa ka eksperimento nga ginlunsyar sang amo nga pagtuon, gintunga ang 114 nga business students agud magkuha sang math exam sa duha ka hulot sa diin ang isa ang napun-an sang baho sang kape.
Sa ulihi, ang mga estudyante nga nagkuha sang exam sa hulot nga puno sang baho sang kape ang lunsay nakakuha sang mataas nga grado.
Napamatud-an sa amo nga pagtuon nga ang baho sang kape ang may yara sang ‘placebo effect’ nga nagahatag sang pagka-alerto, focus, kag nagapa-improve sang mental functioning sang tawo.
Nahibaluan nga nadiskubrehan man sang mga scientist sa isa ka eksperimento nga nadula ang fatigue kag stress sang mga ilaga nga kulang sa tulog matapos nakasimhot sang baho sang kape.
Popcorn: May benepisyo gid man bala sa ikaayong lawas?
Nahidlaw kana bala magkaon sang popcorn?
Ini ang sadto anay mabakal sa mga sinehan sang wala pa ang pandemya.
Apang apisar sa mga tyangge, sa parke ukon sa grocery stores, may yara man sang mga popcorn nga may nagkalain-lain nga flavors.
Ang iban, ginalakip pa ang popcorn sa ila nga diet bilang healthy snack option.
Apang indi tanan nga popcorn ang may maayo nga benepisyo sa ikaayong lawas.
Ang ginatumod nga healthy snack amo ang regular popcorn kag indi ang microwavable variety nga masami ninyo ginakaon ng may mga butter, cheese kag asin.
Suno kay Shilpa Arora, isa ka nutritionist, ang popcorn ang human sa 100% natural whole grain nga amo ang nagabulig sa pag improve sang digestion.
Ang pagkaon sang popcorn pahayag sang eksperto ang makapanubo sang overall cholesterol level nga nagaprotekta sa inyo sa pag-angkon sang heart attack ukon iban pa nga mga balatian.
Sa mga luyag naman nga magpaniwang, ang popcorn ang makabulig gid sa imo bangud may yara ini sang manubo nga calorie kag mas maayo ini nga option ipaanggid sa potato chips.
Pagkaon sang ugbos sang kamote: Ano ayhan ang health benefits?
Paborito mo man bala nga pamahaw sa uma ang bag-ong tanok nga kamote?
Magluwas sa unod sang kamote, hibaluon naton ang mga benepisyo kun nagakaon ka sang ugbos sini.
Suno sa pagtuon sang Louisiana State Agricultural Center, ang ugbos sang kamote ang rich sa anti-diabetes properties kag maayo man para sa diet therapy.
May yara ini sang anti-diabetic compounds nga nagapanubo sang blood glucose content sang tawo.
Dugang pa diri, makabulig man ang ugbos sang kamote agud malikawan ang cancer.
Ini bangud may yara ini sang antioxidants kag antimutagenic compounds ukon substances nga makabuhin sang rate of mutation sang cancer cells.
Nakahibalo ka pa gid bala nga ang vitamin K component sang ugbos sang kamote ang nagafacilitate sang blood clotting abilities sang aton nga dugo; buot silingon, madasig ka nga makarecover sa mga pilas, bakiras, kag iban pa nga blood clotting problems.
Makabulig man ini sa imo nga tul-an bangud ang contente sini nga Vitamin K ang makabulig maintain sang calcium sa tul-an kag mabuhinan man ang risgo sa pagdevelop sang osteoporosis (ukon bone loss) kag ginapanubo man sini ang risgo sang bone fractures sa post-menopausal nga mga babaye.
Apple Cider Vinegar, makabulig tapna sang body odor
Naghatag sang tips ang doktor agud malikawan ang angsod nga isa ka sahi sang body odor ilabi na subong nga mainit ang pahanon.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang body odor amo ang ‘unpleasant smell’ nga nagahalin sa lawas sang tawo sa diin may yara sang ‘overgrowth’ sang bacteria.
Ang body odor ang masami nagahalin sa tiil, ilok, pribado nga bahin sang lawas, pusod, alatrasan, likod sang dulunggan kag iban pa.
Nagpanugyan man si Tiangha sang mga pamaagi agud malikawan ang body odor sa diin kalabanan sa mga ini ang makita lang sa kusina.
Suno kay Tiangha, nagpanguna diri amo ang apple cider vinegar nga isa sa pinaka-epektibo nga ‘deodorizer’.
Mahimo ini ipahid suno sa doktor sa bahin sang lawas nga may odor matapos magpaligo bangud nagabulig ini patay sang mga bacteria nga ginahalinan sang baho sa lawas.
Ikaduha nga natural remedy sang body odor amo ang Baking soda ukon cornstarch sa diin mahimo ini ipahid sa bahin sang lawas nga may baho.
Isa ini suno kay Tiangha sa epektibo nga pampadula sang balhas agud mapauntat ang pagdamo sang bacteria.
Dugang pa ni Tiangha, ang Parsley ukon ang bisan ano nga duag green kag madahon nga utan kaangay sang balunggay kag tangkong ang pila man sa mga epektibo nga remedyo sang body odor.
Ang mga duag green nga utan suno kay Tiangha ang may anti-bacterial kag anti-inflammatory.
Gin-abiso sang natungdan nga mas healthy kag epektibo kun kan-on ang utan nga raw ukon hilaw.
Ang pinakamaayo nga himuon suno sa doktor amo nga magpaligo adlaw-adlaw kag indi pagpabay-an nga magdugay ang balhas sa lawas.
Nagalingin bala ang ulo sang imo bata kun magbyahe apisar indi man malayo ang kaladto-an?
Eksperto, may tips kun paano ini malikawan
Apisar limitado pa ang pagbyahe sa idalom sang community quaratine bangud sa kahangawa nga tuga sang COVID-19, may mga kahigayunan sa gihapon nga kinahanglan magpadulong sa iban nga lugar.
Indi lang pagkalimtan ang bulong kun maglingin ang ulo sang imo anak samtang nagabyahe apisar indi man malayo ang kaladto-an.
Suno sa American Academy of Family Physicians , ginatawag nga motion sickness ang paglingin sang ulo sa byahe.
Tuga ini sang disturbance sa inner ear nga nagaapekto sa sense of balance kag equilibrium sang lawas.
Mga babaye kag bata nga naga edad duha tubtob 12 anyos ang masami nga nagabatyag sang motion sickness.
Masami man ini sa mga tawo nga nagabatyag sang migraine.
Agud malikawan ang paglingin sang ulo samtang nagabyahe, yari ang panugyan sang mga eksperto;
*likawan magbasa *indi magkaon sang mamantika ukon maaslom nga pagkaon lakip na ang pag-inom sang kape *magkaon lang sang dry crackers agud nga may unod ang tyan *mag-inom sang madamo nga tubig *siguraduhon nga may bastante nga tulog antes magbyahe kag; *kun may head rest ang pulungkuan, isandig ang ulo agud nga mabuhinan ang paghulag.
Authenticity sang video sang bulang sa cockpit arena sa Lapuz, Iloilo City, ginausisa na sang ICPO
ILOILO CITY- Ginausisa na sang Iloilo City Police Office kon authentic ang naggwa nga video sa social media tuhoy sa cockfighting activity sa Rockwell Cockpit Arena sa Barangay Don Esteban, Lapuz, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Police Office Director PCol Uldarico Garbanzos, iya ginpahayag nga kuhaan man nila sang statement ang nag-upload sang amo nga video.
Una na nga nag-isyu sang show-cause order si Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas batok sa Rockwell Cockpit Arena kasunod sang naglapta nga video sang ginapatigayon nga bulang.
Ginpanindugan naman sang tagdumalahan sang Rockwell nga wala sang may natabo nga bulang sa arena sang Marso 22 kag 23.
Nahibaluan nga suspendido ang pagpatigayon sang bulang tubtob sa Abril 4 santo sa Resolution No.
103 nga gin-isyu sang Inter-Agency Task Force for the Management of Emerging Infectious Diseases (IATF) bangud sa pagtaas sang kaso sang COVID-19 sa pungsod.
NTF Chair Lorenzana, gintumod ang mayor nga mga rason sang liwat nga pagtimbuok sang kaso sang COVID-19 sa Pilipinas
ILOILO CITY- Gintumod sang chairman sang National Task Force on COVID-19 ang duha ka mayor nga mga rason sang liwat nga pagtimbuok sang kaso sang COVID-19 sa pungsod.
Delfin Lorenzana, iya ginpahayag nga nagapanguna nga rason amo nga nagakampante na ang mga pumuluyo nga may yara na sang bakuna gani nga wala na ginasunod ang mga minimum health protocol.
Suno kay Lorenzana, isa man ka kabangdanan amo nga mas makalalaton man ang bag-o nga variants sang COVID-19 nga nakasulod sa pungsod.
Bangud sa pagtimbuok sang kaso sang COVID-19 ilabi na sa Metro Manila, ginpahayag sang opisyal nga ginpakamaayo nila nga ilockdown ang tanan nga mga barangay nga may madamo nga kaso sang COVID-19.
Nahibaluan nga epektibo man subong nga adlaw, Marso 22 tubtob sa Abril 4, ang pagpaidalom sa National Capital Region (NCR) Bulacan, Cavite, Laguna, kag Rizal sa General Community Quarantine (GCQ) kasunod sang pagsaka sang mga panibag-o nga kaso sang COVID-19.
Colorectal Cancer, makabig nga ikaduha sa nagapanguna nga cancer death sa mga kababainhan
Makabig nga ikaduha sa nagapanguna nga cancer death sa mga kababainhan ang colorectal cancer kag ikatatlo naman sa mga kalalakihan.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang colorectal cancer amo ang kilala nga bowel cancer, colon cancer ukon rectal cancer nga nagaapekto sa colon kag rectum.
Suno kay Tiangha, bangud sa pag-abanse sang screening techniques kag pagsangkad sang treatments kag bulong, nabuhinan na ang death rate sa colorectal cancer.
Pila sa mga sintomas sang nasambit nga balatian suno sa doktor amo ang masunod:
Lakip sa nasambit nga sintomas suno kay Tiangha ang mahimo magresulta sa iban nga health condition apang importante nga magpacheck-up sa doktor kun maglawig ini nga mga sintomas sang masobra apat ka semana.
Ginpahayag sang doktor nga lakip sa mga treatment sang colorectal cancer amo ang chemotherapy.
Mahimo man suno kay Tiangha magpaidalum sa Radiation therapy ang isa ka pasyente nga may amo nga cancer agud mapunggan ang pagdamo sang cancer cells.
Nagpahanumdom man ang natungdan sa publiko nga likawan ang masami nga pag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon kag pagpanigarilyo nga mahimo magresulta sa amo nga cancer.
Mas maayo suno kay Tiangha nga magkaon sang utan kag mag-ehersisyo agud makalikaw indi lamang sa cancer kundi sa madamo pa nga sahi sang balatian.
Talaba kag isda nga sabor- asayti, indi malayo nga matabo kon madayon ang pagtukod sang oil depot sa Talusan, Dumangas, Iloilo
ILOILO CITY- Hugot nga ginabalabagan sang mga fisherfolks sa banwa sang Dumangas ang plano nga pagpatukod sang oil depot sang Grayhorse Energy Inc.
sa 10-ektaryas nga lote sa Talusan, Dumangas, Iloilo.
Tomas Hautea, presidente sang Iloilo Fish Producers Association, iya ginpahayag nga dako nga risgo sa ila palangabuhian kag sa dunang manggad ang dala sang amo nga oil depot.
Suno kay Hautea, isa sa ginalantaw nga posible nga matabo amo ang oil leakage.
Pahayag sang natungdan, sa tion nga matabo ini, indi lang ang ang barangay Talusan ang apektado kundi maapektuhan man ang barangay Sapao, Ermita, Patlad, Cayos, Bantud Fabrica sa amo nga banwa kag malab-ot man ang Zarraga kag Leganes.
Dugang pa niya, indi niya luyag nga sa ulihi, ang tanan nga seafoods sa lugar ang may baho kag may sabor sang asayti.
Nagpanugyan man ini nga mas maayo nga pasangkaron sang banwa ang fishing industry sa lugar bangud masarangan sini buhion ang ekonomiya bisan wala sang presensya sang oil depot.
Random checking, patigayunon sa mga merkado sa Iloilo City bilang tikang batok sa ASF
ILOILO CITY- Magapatigayon sang random checking sa mga merkado sa Syudad sang Iloilo ang mga meat inspectors sang Local Economic Enterprise Office (LEEO).
Ini may kaangtanan sa kampanya nga mapabilin nga hilway sa African Swine Fever(ASF) ang Syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maricel Mabaquiao, pinuno sang nasambit nga talatapan, iya ginpahayag nga suguran ini sang task force ASF sa pinakamadali nga panahon.
Suno kay Mabaquiao, kaupod sang mga inspectors ang Task Force Anti-hot Meat nga amo ang magapatigayon sang random checking sa mga merkado, lakip na ang mga baligyaan sang karne sa sulod sang malls.
Una na nga nagpaandam ang Department of Agriculture Region 6 sa publiko nga mangin mabinantayon agud maprotektahan ang PHP20 billion nga hog industry sa Western Visayas.
Underweight: ano bala ang mga kabangdanan?
Madamo ang nagasiling nga mapalaron kag makahilisa ang mga tawo nga wala nagadako ukon nagatambok.
Ang wala nila nahibaluan, problema man ang kakulang sang bug-at ukon underweight ilabi na kun may yara sang madalom nga rason.
Gani kinahanglan man sang mga maniwang ang panglawason sang tips agud nga magdako.
Suno kay Katherine Zeratsky, isa ka registered kag licensed dietician, may nagkalain-lain nga rason kun ngaa maniwang, kulang sa bug-at ukon wala nagadako ang isa ka tawo.
Apisar makabig ang pila sa ila nga heathy, indi manigar nga may yara man ang mga ini sang problema sa ikaayong lawas.
Pahayag sang eksperto, kun kaisa sulundon man ini sa diin ang imo pamilya ang may yara sang maniwang nga panglawason.
Mahimo man tungod sa imo nga mga physical activities kun ngaa gamay ang imo nga lawas kaangay sang pagka-aktibo sa trabaho, kag tuman ka energetic.
Bangud sini, madasig matunaw ang calories sa imo nga lawas.
Normal lang nga magnubo ang imo bug-at kun ikaw ang ginamasakit ukon may yara ikaw sang hilanat sa diin nagakawad-an ka sang gana nga magkaon apang dapat ka na nga magkabalaka suno sa eksperto kun gulpi na lang nagnubo ang imo nga bug-at apisar bastante kag madamo ka man magkaon.
Mahimo pahayag ni Zeratsky nga may yara ka pa gid sang problema sa ikaayong lawas.
Gani, mas maayo nga magpakonsulta gilayon sa doctor agud mahatagan sang nagakaigo nga solusyon kag atensyon.
DPWH-6, padayon ang pagtukod sang mga quarantine facilities sa Western Visayas
ILOILO CITY- Nagapadayon ang pagpatukod sang Department of Public Works and Highways sang mga quarantine facilities sa nanuhay-tuhay nga bahin sang rehiyon bilang kabahin sang pagpakig-away batok sa COVID-19.
Jose Al Fruto, Assistant Regional Director sang Department of Public Works and Highways Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga sa Iloilo City, kabahin sang ila na natukod amo ang 16-bed quarantine facility sa Barangay Sooc, Arevalo nga may upod pa nga off-site dormitory sa compound; kag gin-upgrade nga gymnasium sa Iloilo Sports Complex agud himuon man nga quarantine facility.
Suno kay Fruto, ang nasambit nga mga quarantine facilities ang nakompleto na kag na turn-over na sa syudad sang Iloilo.
Pahayag pa sang natungdan, ini nga mga accomplishments ang resulta sang kolaborasyon sang DPWH, Local Government Unit, kag Department of Health.
Pulis, gin-umpisahan sang latnanay sang COVID-19 sa police station sang San Enrique, Iloilo
ILOILO CITY- Nag-umpisa sa isa ka police personnel ang latnanay sang COVID-19 sa police station sang San Enrique, Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay San Enrique Mayor Trixie Fernandez, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga pulis nga pumuluyo sang iban nga banwa ang may asawa nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19.
Suno sa alkalde, matapos nagpaidalom sa swab test ang amo nga pulis, nag-duty ini sa gihapon sa police station samtang ginahulat ang resulta sang iya swab test.
Pahayag sang opisyal, sang naggwa ang resulta nga positibo sa COVID-19 ang pulis, didto na kag ginpaidalom man sa test ang 29 ka mga tawo sa police station nga ginalakipan sang 23 ka PNP personnel, isa ka detainee, 2 ka Job Order, kag 3 ka Non- Uniformed Personnel.
Sa 29 nga ginpaidalom sa test, 10 ang nagpositibo sa diin pito ang pulis, isa ka NUP kag ang duha ka Job Order.
Indi naman mapat-ud sang alkalde kon may koneksyon sa narecord nga kaso sang COVID- 19 sa police station ang pagpositibo sa COVID-19 sang duha ka empleyado sang munisipyo.
Nahibaluan nga ginlockdown ang San Enrique Municipal Police Station kag ang munisipyo bangod sa narecord nga mga kaso sang COVID-19.
2nd batch sang COVID-19 vaccines, nag-abot na sa Iloilo
ILOILO CITY- Nag-abot na sa Iloilo ang second batch sang COVID-19 vaccines.
Ini ang ginabug-usan sang 16,880 doses sang Sinovac vaccine kag 10,000 doses sang Astra Zeneca.
Matandaan nga sang Marso 5 sang nag-abot sa Iloilo ang una nga batch sang 16,880 doses sang Sinovac vaccine.
Marso 8 sang dululungan nga nagpatigayon sang inoculation sang Sinovac Vaccines ang anom ka mga priority hospitals sa Western Visayas.
Masami ang bangungot ma eksperyensyahan sang mga lalaki ukon mga yara sa younger age group.
Mahimo man nga bangud sa pancreatitis ang pagbangungot sang tawo bangud sa tuman nga pag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon.
Indi lamang toxic sa atay ang alcoholic drinks kundi mangin sa pancreas nga nagatuga sang pagkaguba sini.
Apang may yara sang tatlo ka mga factors nga makonsidera nga kabangdanan sang pagbangungot.
Una, kun may yara sang problema sa istruktura ang imo tagipusuon.
Ika-duha, may environmental/social stressor ukon tuman nga kakapoy, makahalanusbo nga emosyon kag may manubo nga potassium.
Kag ang ika-tatlo, kun may yara ikaw sang abnormal nga pagpitik sang tagipusuon samtang ikaw ang tulog.
Kun ma eksperyensyahan ang tatlo ka mga factors nga ini, mahimo pahayag sang eksperto nga mag-untat ang pagpitik sang tagipusuon kag ikaw ang mabangungot.
Pagpanghina kag pagkalipong, dako nga patimaan sang heat stroke
Pagsakit sang ulo, tuman nga pagka-uhaw, pagpanghina kag pagkalipong ang pila ka mga patimaan sang heat stroke.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang heat stroke amo ang ginakabig nga malala nga balatian sa diin tuman kataas ang temperatura sang lawas sang isa ka tawo.
Mataas ang posibilidad nga mag-angkon sang heat stroke ang isa ka tawo kun nagatinir ini sa tuman kainit nga lugar nga nagaresulta sa dehydration.
Tiangha, kun nagadangat na sa 40°C ang hilanat sang isa ka tawo, nagadasig ang heart beat, nagakombulsyon, kag nagadiliryo, mahimo ini nga magresulta sa heat stroke.
Agud makalikaw sa heat stroke, nagakadapat nga:
Ginpahayag ni Tiangha nga mas maayo nga mag-ehersisyo kun aga sa diin indi pa tuman ka init.
Panugyan sang doktor, dal-on gilayon sa ospital ang isa ka-tawo nga ginapatihan naheat stroke.
Pag-abot sang COVID-19 vaccines sa Iloilo, wala pa sang pat-od nga petsa
ILOILO CITY- Wala pa sang petsa ang pag-abot sang COVID-19 vaccines sa Western Visayas.
Jane Juanico, head sang Infectious Disease Cluster sang Department of Health- Center for Health Development Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga may alokasyon na, apang wala pa sang data sang numero sang vaccine kag kon san-o ini ipadala sa rehiyon 6.
Suno kay Juanico, handa naman ang COVID referral facilities nga Western Visayas Medical Center sa Mandurriao, Iloilo City kag Corazon Locsin Montelibano Memorial Regional Hospital sa Bacolod City nga amo ang pagadal-an sang mga bakuna sa tion nga mag-abot ini sa rehiyon.
Pahayag niya, ang mga pasilidad naman nga hatagan sang bakuna santo sa rekomendasyon sang national office amo ang Western Visayas Medical Center sa Mandurriao kag Corazon Locsin Montelibano Memorial Regional Hospital, kag pagasundan sang level 3, level 2, kag level 1 hospitals.
Sa tion naman sang pagpatigayon sang vaccination, kinahanglan nga registered ang empleyado sa information system kag may consent for vaccination.
Tanan nga frontline health workers, apisar wala nagatrabaho sa amo nga ospital apang nagpalista sa amo nga ospital ang malakip man sa pagabakunahan.
Dugang pa niya, bangud targeted ang mga pabakunahan, wala sang matabo nga walk-in nga pagpabakuna.
Matapos matublok ang first dose, itublok ang second dose pagkatapos sang 28 ka adlaw.
Pagdako sang vital organs kaangay sang tagipusuon kag atay sa lawas sang tawo ang pila sa mga resulta sang balatian nga Beta thalassemia.
Joselito Caso, pediatric hematologist, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga balatian ang heriditary.
50 percent suno sa doktor ang posibilidad nga makaangkon sang Beta thalassemia ang isa ka indibidwal kun may yara sang kaangay nga balatian ang iya mga ginikanan.
Caso, ang Beta thalassemia ang isa ka balatian sa dugo nga nagabuhin sang produksyon sang hemoglobin nga amo ang responsable sa paghatag sang oxygen sa lawas sang isa ka tawo.
Ginpahayag ni Casa nga ang mga indibidwal nga nagusuprir sang amo nga balatian ang makaangkon man sang anemia ukon kakulang sang red blood cells, sa diin nagalapsi ang panit, nagahina ang immune system, gabuhin ang bug-at ukon wala nagadako, nagabatyag sang fatigue kag iban pa nga mga kumplikasyon.
Dako man nga risgo suno sa iya nga mag-angkon sang abnormal nga blood clots kag paglapad sang mga organs sa lawas ang mga pasyente nga may Beta thalassemia.
Yari naman ang pila ka mga pamaagi agud mabulong ang balatian nga Beta thalassemia:
ILOILO CITY- Mataas nga talakladon para sa gobyerno sang Pilipinas nga makuha ang pagsalig sang mga pumuluyo sa COVID-19 vaccine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Senate Minority Leader Franklin Drilon, iya ginpahayag nga apisar nag-abot na ang una nga batch sang Sinovac vaccine sang China, manubo sa gihapon ang kumpiyansa sang mga tawo sa bakuna kag nagamalibad sa pagpabakuna.
Suno kay Drilon, konsekwensya ini sang pabag-o-bag-o man nga pahayag sang mga matag-as nga opisyal sang gobyerno tuhoy sa ila pagpabakuna.
Ginpahayag sang opposition senator nga nangin dako man nga factor sa pagkadula sang salig sang publiko sa bakuna amo ang mishandling sang dengvaxia controversy nga napun-an pa sang drama ni Public Attorney’s Office Chief Atty.
Dugang pa sang Ilonggo nga senador, ang mga problema sa subong ang konsekwensya na sang isa ka tuig nga pagpabaya sang gobyerno sa pag-uyat sa krisis nga dala sang pandemya.
May kaangtanan naman sa ginproponer sang gobyerno nga pagpadala sang nurse abroad kabaylo sang donasyon nga (COVID-19) vaccine, ginpahayag ni Drilon nga indi commodity ang mga Filipino nurses gani wala nagakaangay nga usaron sila agud i-barter sa bakuna.
Sa isyu naman natuhoy sa paghatag sang gobyerno sang blanket immunity sa mga vaccine manufacturers agud nga wala sila sang salabton sa tion nga may maeksperyensiyahan nga adverse side effects ang indibidwal nga nakabaton sang bakuna, ginpahayag ni Drilon nga nagalapas ini sa laye kag sa public policy.
Paathag sang senador, sa idalom sang Covid-19 Vaccination Program Act nga ginpasar sang kongreso sang nagligad nga semana, apisar may yara sang immunity ang Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers gikan sa mga kaso para sa mga claims angot sa pag-administer sang Covid-19 vaccine apang wala naman sila sang immunity para sa willful misconduct ukon gross negligence.
12 staff sang Iloilo 3rd Engineering District sang DPWH sa Btac.
ILOILO CITY- Naglab-ot na sa 100 ka tawo ang nalakip sa contact tracing kasunod sang pagpositibo sa COVID-19 sang 18 ka mga indibidwal sa Barotac Viejo, Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Nielo “Bong-Bong” Tupas, sa 18 ka kaso, 12 ang gikan sa Iloilo 3rd District Engineering Office sang Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), tatlo ang mga vendors sa Banate Public Market kag ang tatlo ang close contacts sang mga vendors.
Suno kay Mayor Tupas, symptomatic ang iban sa nasambit nga mga pasyente nga nagaeksperyensiya sang hilanat, pagkadula sang panabor kag panimaho.
Ginpaidalom naman sa quarantine ang kapin 100 nga mga close contacts nga nakuhaan na sang RT-PCR test kag ginahulat nalang ang resulta.
Pahayag pa sang alkalde, wala pa matumod kon sa diin naghalin ang kaso apang ginalantaw nga posible nga sa DPWH naghalin ang infection kag latnanay.
Gilayon naman nga ginpaidalom sa disinfection ang DPWH kag igasirado ini sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw .
Vaccine indemnity fund bill, ginalauman nga mapasar na sa Senado subong nga adlaw
ILOILO CITY- Ginhikayan ni Senate Minority Leader Franklin Drilon ang tuman ka uyaya nga hulag sang gobyerno sa procurement sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Senator Drilon, iya ginpahayag nga tubtob subong, wala sa gihapon sang bisan isa ka injection ang nag-abot sa Pilipinas.
Suno sa opposition senator, apisar nga ginhatagan na sang Food and Drug Administration (FDA) sang emergency approval ang Sinovac vaccine sang China, indi man ini mahimo ihatag sa mga sektor nga dapat unahon hatagan sang bakuna nga amo ang mga health workers kag senior citizens bangud sa low efficacy rate sang bakuna.
Matandaan nga ang CoronaVac sang China ang ikatatlo nga bakuna nga gin-aprubahan para sa emergency use sa pungsod apang wala pa sang bisan isa nga nadeliver rason sang delayed rollout sang bakuna.
Samtang, ginalauman naman nga mapasar na subong sa senado ang Senate Bill (SB) 2057 nga nagatuyo nga mag-establisar sang vaccine indemnity fund nga magapadasig sang procurement sang coronavirus vaccines.
Suno kay Drilon, nalakip man diri ang pagpain sang indemnification fund agud magsabat sa posible nga gasto kag claims sa tion nga may yara sang adverse effects sang bakuna.
Una na nga ginsertipikahan ni President Rodrigo Duterte ang hagna bilang urgent.
Pagpeke sang yuhom, may malain nga epekto sa ikaayong lawas suno sa pagtuon
Ikaw bala ang sahi sang tawo nga ginapeke ang yuhom sa mga tawo nga imo maatubang?
Nagguwa sa pagtuon nga ginpublish sa journal nga Psychological Bulletin nga nagahatag sang malain nga epekto sa lawas ang pagpeke sang yuhom sang isa ka tawo.
Ang pagyuhom apisar nga indi ikaw malipayon ang indi makabulig sa mood sang tawo.
Sa pgatuon, nagguwa nga sa 100 ka tawo nga nagapeke sang ila yuhom, pito lang diri ang nagabatyag sang kalipay.
Santu naman sa mga researchers sang Penn State University sa Pennsylvania, pila man sa mga empleyado nga nagakapilitan magyuhom sa trabaho para sa mga customer ang may mataas nga risgo nga mangin heavy drinker.
Pahayag sang mga eksperto, nagaka-drain ang tawo bangud sa pagpeke sang positive emotions nga naga-resulta sa alcohol consumption nga malain sa ikaayong lawas.
Gani kun ikaw ang nagakabatyag sang kasubo, kalipay, kaakig kag excitement, ipakita ina sa tawo kag indi pagtago-tagoa ang imo ginabatyag.
Agud masiguro nga healthy ang hangin nga ginahaklo sang imo pamilya — mas kinahanglan mo bala sang humidifier ukon air purifier sa imo balay?
May nagkalain-lain nga health benefits kag gamit ang humidifier kag air purifier.
Suno sa United States Environmental Protection Agency, ang humidifier ang nagadugang sang moisture sa hangin nga nagalikaw sa dryness nga mangin tuga sang irritation sa nagkalain-lain nga parte sang lawas.
Ang humidifiers ang epektibo man sa pagbulong sang dryness sang imo nga panit, ilong, tutunlan kag bibig.
Samtang ang air purifier naman ang makapadula sang harmful chemical halin sa indoor environment, nagapanubo sang tyansa sang Airborne Diseases, nagapanami pa sang imo tulog kag nagapalawig sang imo kabuhi.
Indi lang sa saguwa sang imo balay may polusyon kundi mangin sa sulod man sang imo nga balay.
Kag bangud sa indoor pollution, ini ang makaapekto sang imo cardiac, respiratory kag mangin neurological systems.
Apang indi lang basta-basta magbutang sang humidifier kag air purifier sa sulod sang imo balay kundi updi man ini sang pagpaninlo.
Ngaa dapat mo likawan ang pagsulit-sulit gamit sang plastic bottle?
Tubig ina — importante ina sa imo nga lawas.
Apang lain naman ang istorya kun ang tubig ang nasulod sa amo man gihapon nga plastic bottle kag dira ka man gihapon naga-inom sang sulit-sulit.
May mga plastic bottles nga safe gamiton liwat bangud madala pa ini sa paghugas sang habon.
Apang may mga food and drinks nga nakasulod sa amo nga containers ukon plastic bottles nga posible may yara sang trace amounts sang Bisphenol A (BPA), isa ka synthetic chemical nga makahalit sa natural hormone messaging system.
Suno sa Environment California Research & Policy Center, ang BPA ang may posible maangot sa breast and uterine cancer, increased risk sang miscarriage ukon pagkahulog sang bata, kag nagapanubo man sang testosterone levels.
Ang BPA ang makaapekto man sa behavior sang kabataan.
Makahalit ini sa utok kag prostate glands ilabi na sa mga fetuses, infants, kag children.
Ginapamatukan man sang mga health advocates ang paggamit liwat sang bottles nga human sa plastic lakip na ang most disposable water, soda, kag juice bottles.
Panugyan sang mga eksperto, indi na pag-init initon pa ukon gamiton liwat ini nga mga bottles.
Health experts, may paathag sa mga naga-eksperyensya sang Vertigo
Naka-eksperyensya kana bala nga daw kaangay nga nagalibot ang kalibutan?
Indi tungod nga nagahigugma ka ha kundi bangud sa tuman nga paglingin sang imo ulo.
Apang pamangkot sang kadam-an, pang-forever na bala ini?
Isaac David Ampil II, isa ka oncologist, nga ang vertigo ang indi makabig nga sakit kundi sintomas sang mga balatian.
Kun ang kabangdanan sang vertigo amo ang mga “acute” nga balatian kaangay sang impeksyon ukon nagakaangkon sang sinusitis, madula man ang vertigo kun madula naman ang mga nasambit nga balatian.
Apang pahayag sang doktor, may yara man sang mga balatian nga nagadugay kaangay sang stroke nga mahimo halinan sang vertigo kag mangin rason naman sang liwat nga pag-atake sang tuman nga lingin sang imo ulo.
Paathag ni Ampil, indi man makabig nga pang-forever ang vertigo bangud may yara ini sang bulong agud mahagan-hagan ang pag-atake.
Swine kag pork products gikan sa Eastern Visayas, gin-ban na sa Iloilo
ILOILO CITY- Labi pa nga ginpahugtan sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang pagbantay sa mga borders agud mamonitor kag matapna ang pagsulod sang mga swine products gikan sa Eastern Visayas.
048, Series of 2021 nga nagadugang sa Eastern Visayas sa mga lugar nga dumilian nga magpasulod sang swine, swine semen, pork, pork products kag by-products sa Iloilo.
Daryl Tabuada, Provincial Veterinarian, iya ginpahayag nga gin-abisuhan na ang kabanwahanan sa probinsya nga ginalakipan sang Ajuy, Anilao, Balasan, Banate, Barotac Nuevo,Barotac Viejo, Batad, Carles, Concepcion, Dumangas, Estancia, kag San Dionisio, ilabi na ang ila island barangays nga hugot nga bantayan ang posible pagsulod sang swine, swine semen, pork, pork products kag by-products gikan sa Masbate area.
Suno kay Tabuada, ang tanan nga livestock transport carriers nga nagasulod kag nagagwa sa Livestock “Oksyon” Market (LOM), Livestock Auction Market (LAM) kag livestock holding facilities,ang dapat magpaidalom sa maidi-id nga disinfection, kag magdala sang updated disinfection clearance nga ginpirmahan sang livestock technician ukon authorized personnel.
Samtang ang tanan nga couriers/forwarders ang ginpaandaman man sa pagtransport kag pagdeliver pasulod sa Probinsya sang Iloilo ang nasambit nga mga produkto gikan sa Luzon, Mindanao, Eastern Visayas, kag areas nga apektado sang ASF .
Nahibaluan nga ginadumilian man ang pagpasulod sang swine, swine semen, pork, pork products kag by-products gikan sa mga pungsod ukon teritoryo kaangay sang Latvia, Poland, Romania, Russia, Ukraine, Luxembourg, Belgium, Bulgaria, Moldova, Czech Republic, South Africa, Zambia, Hong Kong, Mongolia, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, South Korea, kag China.
Mahumok kag mapino ina bangud sa kolesterol.
Kun sa aton pagdumdom, kun maghambal gani kolesterol, malain na gilayon sa aton nga ikaayong lawas.
Eric Rimm, professor of epidemiology and nutrition , 70% sang enerhiya nga ginagamit sang aton lawas ang naghalin sa kolesterol.
Naga-function ang aton central nervous system bangud man sa kolesterol.
80 percent sang kolesterol sa aton lawas ang nagahalin sa aton atay.
Apang kun masobrahan ang pagkaon sang makolesterol nga pagkaon ilabi na ang may saturated fat kaangay sang mga prito, ginpataas sini ang kadamuon sang dugo.
Bangud sini pahayag niya, gina-atake sa tagipusuon ukon nagaka-stroke ang tawo.
Agud mahibaluan kun nagtaas ang bad cholesterol, kinahanglan magpa-blood test nga ginatawag nga lipid profile.
Stress kag depression, isa ka mayor nga rason sang erectile dysfunction
Ang pag-angkon sang stress kag depression ang isa sa pinakamayor nga rason sang erectile dysfunction sa mga kalalakihan.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang erectile dysfunction amo ang male impotence kag isa ka medikal nga kondisyon sa diin ang isa ka lalaki ang nabudlayan magpatindog sang iya kinatawo samtang nagapakighilawas.
Suno kay Tiangha, common ini sa mga lalaki nga naga-edad 75 anyos pasaka apang mahimo man ini maeksperyensya sang mga lamharon nga lalaki.
Ginpahayag sang doktor nga dako ang epekto sini sa psychological health kag sexual life sang isa ka lalaki.
Yari ang pila ka sintomas sang erectile dysfunction: stress, altapresyon, depresyon, sakit sa dughan, diabetes, obesity, pagkakapoy kag panghina.
Ginpahayag ni Tiangha nga ang urine kag blood test ang mga pamaagi agud mahibaluan kun may erectile dysfunction ang isa ka lalaki.
Magluwas diri, importante man suno sa iya ang magpacheck up sa doktor.
Agud malikawan ang nasambit nga balatian, nagpanugyan man ang doktor sa mga lalaki nga magkaon sang healthy kag maglikaw sa malain nga mga bisyo.
Makabulig man suno sa natungdan ang pag-exercise, kag pagdiet ilabi na kun may yara sang suporta halin sa asawa.
Mga nagapang-istorbo sa trabaho, nagapadugang sang stress kag kakapoy sa tawo suno sa mga eksperto
Nahibalo ka bala nga mas madasig makapoy kag makabatyag sang stress ang mga tawo nga masami gina-istorbo sa trabaho?
Sa pagtuon sang Swiss health foundation, ila natukiban nga mas nagapaguwa sang stress hormones ang mga tawo nga masami gina-istorbo.
Kun maglala ang nagakabatyagan nga physical stress sang isa ka tawo, posible ini nga magresulta sang tuman nga kakapopy nga magahatag naman sang negatibo nga epekto sa ikaayong lawas.
Ginpangunahan sang psychologist nga si Dr.
Jasmine Kerr, kaupod ang mathematician nga si Mara Nagelin kag computer scientist nga si Dr.
Raphael Weibel ang nasambit nga eksperimento nga may katuyuan nga madiskubrehan ang isa ka early warning device nga makatumod sa mga kabangdanan kag makapauntat sa stress nga mahimo mabatyagan sang tawo ilabi na kun sila ang gina-istorbo.
Nagakaakig ukon nagakairita ka bala kun makabati ka sang ordinaryo lang nga huni?
Basi may yara ikaw na ikaw sang Misophonia
Tanan kita ang yara sang paborito nga musika ukon huni nga kun aton mabatian, maka-relax gid ang aton paminsaron.
Apang paano kun ang mga huni nga ini nga para sa iban normal lang ang makahatag naman sa imo sang lain nga reaksyon, kaangay sang pagkaakig?
Posible nga nagabatyag ka na sang misophonia suno kay Dr.
Marsha Johnson, isa ka audiologist sang Oregon Audiology Clinic.
Ang mga tawo nga may kondisyon nga misophonia ang emosyonal nga nagakaapektuhan sang mga ordinaryo nga huni.
Kadam-an sa mga huni nga ini ang ginabalewala lang sang iban apang sa mga tawo nga may nasambit nga kondisyon, bastante na ang ini nga mga huni para maglain ang ila reaksyon.
Nagapakita sang mataas nga senyales sang physiological stress ang mga tawo nga misophonic kaangay sang pagpalamahalhas kag pagbag-o sa heart rate.
Mahimo mangin mild ukon severe ang ma-eskperyensyahan nga reaksyon sang mga may sini nga sahi sang kondisyon.
Posible man pahayag sang eksperto nga maapektuhan ang social life sang tawo nga may ini nga kondisyon apang ang good news, may yara ini sang medical treatment nga makabulig sa imo.
Pagpalamalhas kun gab-i: Ngaa indi mo dapat pagpabay-an?
Normal lang nga pamalhason ka kun magtulog ka kun gab-i; apang ang indi normal amo ang pagbugtaw nga basa-basa na gid ang imo nga pajamas kag ang imo nga kutson bangud sang indi kinaandan nga pagpamalhas.
Rosch, isa ka osteopathic internal medicine specialist sa Wheaton, Illinois, ang pagpalamalhas kun gab-i ang mahimo maangot sa stress kag anxiety.
Pwede man ini maangot sa hormonal issues kaangay sang menopause, low testosterone, carcinoid syndrome kag hyperthyroidism.
Kun may yara ka sang hormonal issues, magluwas sa pagpalamalhas, makaangkon ka man sang indi mapaathag nga weight changes, pagbag-o bag-o sang energy level, kasakit sa ulo, sexual dysfunction kag menstrual changes.
Ukon posible man nga may ginainom ka nga bulong kag basi side effects niya ini.
Ang mas seryoso nga mga kondisyon nga mahimo maangot sa pagpalamalhas amo ang sleep apnea, cancer, kag neurological disorders.
Dapat ka nga magpakonsulta kun basa basa ka na gid kun magbugtaw, indi ka na makatulog, kag kun dala sini ang iban pa nga sintomas kaangay sang pagpalanakit sang lawas kag hilanat.
Kapin 40 nga commercial sex workers nga nadakpan nga naglapas sa health protocol, indi residente sang Brgy.
ILOILO CITY- Ginpanginwala sang punong barangay sang Brgy Ed Ganzon, Iloilo City Proper nga residente sang ila lugar ang mga commercial sex workers nga gindakop bangud sa paglapas sa health protocol sang damlag lang.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Joe Juayang Jr., iya ginpahayag nga nagasayo lang sa lugar partikular sa dalan Ledesma nga sakop sang Brgy.
Suno kay Juayang, ginasaway man ang mga ini sang mga tanod sa barangay.
Gintuad man sang opisyal nga modus man sang mga commercial sex workers nga kawatan ang ila mga customers kag kahimbon man ang ila mga bana nga nagapanghold-up sa mga customers.
Nagpamalibad naman ang natungdan nga tumoron kon sa ano nga barangay nagaistar ang nasambit nga sex workers.
Kidney failure, ginakabig nga pinakauna nga rason sang kamatayon sang mga may balatian nga ‘Lupus’ — Medical Expert
Wala pa sa gihapon sang bulong ang balatian nga ‘lupus’ apang mahimo nga ma-manage ang mga sintomas sang nagasuprir sini.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang balatian nga lupus amo ang isa ka ‘autoimmune disease’ sa diin ginaatake sang lawas sang tawo ang kaugalingon nga mga organ.
Posible nga maapektuhan sang nasambit nga balatian ang joints, panit, kidneys, blood cells, utok, tagipusuon kag baga sang tawo.
Suno kay Tiangha, ang lupus ang masami naga-igo sa mga babayi nga naga-edad sang 15 tubtob 45 anyos.
Lakip sa mga sintomas sang balatian suno kay Tiangha amo ang tuman nga kapoy, mataas nga hilanat, kabudlay sa pagginhawa, pagpula sang panit kag pagkadula sang memorya.
Ginpahayag ni Tiangha nga isa sa pinakadako nga komplikasyon sang balatian nga lupus amo ang kidney failure nga masami ginatunaan sang kamatayon.
Nagpanugyan man ang doktor sa mga may balatian nga lupus nga magsunod sa abiso sang doktor.
Kung mas temprano nga matumod suno kay Tiangha ang balatian nga lupus, mas madasig ini nga mabulong.
Guab, nagapanguna nga dental problem sa mga Filipino–PDA
ILOILO CITY- Nagapabilin nga nagapanguna nga dental problem sa mga Filipino amo ang guab ukon cavities.
Samara, presidente sang Philippine Dental Association- Iloilo Chapter, iya ginpahayag nga mayor nga kabangdanan sang guab amo ang indi pagpanipilyo sang ngipon.
Samara, pinakaepektibo nga solusyon agud malikawan ini amo ang regular kag husto nga pagsipilyo.
Paathag sang natungdan, ang husto nga pagsipilyo ang nagalawig sang duha ka minutos, kinahanglan nga nagapalibot ang direksyon sang pagsipilyo, kag dapat nga mahinay lang ang pressure.
Magluwas sa ngipon, kinahanglan man nga i-brush ang dila.
Ang size sang toothpaste ang nagadepende sa edad: daw pasi(grain of rice ang para sa under 3 years old; daw liso sang monggo ang para sa 3-6 years old; kag green beans seed ang para sa 6 years old pataas.
Samara, mas maayo gid nga regular man ang pagpakonsulta sa dentista.
COVAC Plan 21-22 sang Iloilo, pirmado na ni Gov.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Governor Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga sa nasambit nga plano, naplastar ang listahan sang eligible vaccine population nga hatagan sang prayoridad, pagtumod sa mga vaccine centers, cold chain storages nga gamiton, kag mangin ang mga personnel nga kinahahanglan sa COVAC PLAN.
Suno sa gobernador, may yara naman sang timeline sang mga aktibidad angot sa vaccination sa probinsya kag ini ang kompleto na.
Sa pagkamatuod suno sa iya, samtang gina-draft pa lang ang nasambit nga vaccination plan, nagahulag na ang iban nga components sini kaangay sang pagpirma sang provincial government sa tripartite agreement sa British pharmaceutical firm nga AstraZeneca kag sa gobyerno nasyonal.
Magluwas diri, nakahanas naman ang probinsya sang mga tawo nga may dako nga papel sa patigayunon nga vaccination sa mga pumuluyo sang probinsya.
Gintuad naman ni Defensor nga mahimo nga sa second quarter sang 2021 pa makaabot ang bakuna.
Matandaan nga nagtalana ang provincial government sang P95 million para sa pagbakal sang COVID-19 vaccines.
Ngaa indi mo dapat pagbalewalaon ang pilas nga wala nagaayo?
Masami nga ginaangot naton ini nga mga tinaga sa mga naagyan nga kasakit sa paghigugma ukon pag-abyanay ukon anuman nga malain nga eksperyensya sa kabuhi, apang may literal gid nga pilas sa imo lawas nga indi mo dapat pagpabay-an ilabi na kun malawig na ini nga wala nagaayo.
Christi Cavaliere, Medical Director sang Wound Care sa Cleveland, Ohio, ini nga chronic wound ang posible magatuga sang mas delikado nga komplikasyon.
Ang chronic wound suno kay Cavaliere ang nagaumpisa lang nga kaangay kagamay sang scratch ukon daw punggod apang nagalala nga nagalala kag wala na nagakipot.
Bruce Ruben, Founder kag Medical Director sang Encompass HealthCare, isa ka outpatient facility nga naga-feature sang advanced wound care, posible man nga maangot ang wala nagaayo nga pilas sa: Poor Circulation, Infection, Edema ukon fluid nga nagatipon sa panit, dermis ukon fatty tissue nga masami nagakatabo sa lower extremities, Inadequate Nutrition, kag sulit-sulit nga trauma sa pilas.
Suhestyon sang mga medical experts, likawi gid ang paggamit sang anti-inflammatory drugs, magkaon gid sang maayo, ilakip ang vitamin C sa imo diet, i-dress ang imo pilas, maghimo sang regular exercise bangud ginapaayo sini ang imo blood flow, kag indi gid magpanigarilyo.
Labaw sa tanan,importante gid nga magpakonsulta sa doktor kun may pilas ka nga amo sini.
ILOILO CITY- Ginlockdown ang Philippine Coast Guard- District Office sa Barrio Obrero, Lapuz, Iloilo City kasunod sang pagpositibo sa COVID-19 sang 10 ka personnel.
Enero 30 sang una nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 ang apat ka personnel rason nga ginpaidalom sa RT-PCR test ang mga close contacts sang apat.
Sa 14 nga close contacts, nadugangan sang anom ang nagpositibo sa COVID-19.
Nagapadayon pa ang contact tracing samtang gilayon man nga nagpatigayon sang disinfection sa compound sang nasambit nga ahensya.
Mga babayi nga lapit na magmenopause ‘prone’ sa balatian nga Goiter
Mas madali nga mag-angkon sang balatian nga Goiter ang mga babayi nga lapit na nga magmenopause.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang Goiter amo ang balatian nga epekto sang pagbanog sang thyroid gland nga nagatubo sa tutunlan.
Bangud sa pagbanog, naga-angkon sang bukol sa liog ang isa ka tawo sa bahin sang ‘adam’s apple’ kag larynx.
Ini ang ginatunaan sang pagkapaos, mabudlay nga pagginhawa kag pagtulon.
Tiangha, ang thyroid gland sang isa ka tawo ang nagaobra sang thyroid hormones nga kinahanglan sang lawas.
Ang pag-angkon sang Goiter ang epekto sang pagkakulang sang Iodine ukon ‘Iodine Deficiency’ sa lawas sang tawo.
Ang padayon nga pagdako sang Goiter ang isa ka patimaan nga may problema sa thyroid gland.
Gin-athag ni Tiangha nga bisan sin-o lamang ang mahimo matubuan sang Goiter ilabi na sa mga babayi nga yara sa 40 ang edad kag lapit na sa menopausal stage.
Agud nga makalikaw sa balatian nga Goiter, nagpanugyan ang doktor sa publiko nga magkaon sang mga pagkaon nga may mataas nga iodine, tyrosine, kag antioxidants kaangay sang isda, utan kag gatas.
131 vendors sa Passi City Public Market, naglatnanay sang COVID-19
ILOILO CITY- Nagsaka pa sa 131 ang nagpositibo sa COVID-19 sa Passi City Public Market.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Passi City Mayor Atty.
Stephen Palmares, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang resulta sang pagpaidalom sa swab test sang masobra 600 ka mga vendors matapos una nga nagpositibo ang pito sa mga ini.
Suno kay Palmares,posible nga madugangan pa ang mga magpositibo sa COVID-19.
Nahibaluan nga ginpaidalom sa enhanced community quarantine (ECQ) ang Passi City bangod sa narecord nga bag-o nga mga kaso.
Sa subong, sirado ang kalabanan nga mga establishments magluwas lang sa mga grocery stores, botika, mga balaklan sang pagkaon kag iban nga basic needs.
Gin-athag naman sang alkalde nga mahimo makagwa kag makasulod sa Passi City ang mga residente sang syudad nga frontliners.
Ang mga nagasakay naman sang bus nga may ruta Iloilo-Roxas City and vice versa ang mahimo makalabay, apang indi makalagaw ukon makapanaog sa Passi City.
SimEx para sa COVID-19 vaccination, ginpatigayon sa Iloilo City
ILOILO CITY- Nagpatigayon sang vaccination simulation exercise ang Iloilo City Government bilang preparasyon sa vaccination program batok sa COVID-19.
Ini ang ginhiwat sa Central Philippine University gymnasium kag football field sa Jaro, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jeck Conlu,spokesperson sang COVID-19 team sang syudad, iya ginpahayag nga 500 ka tawo ang nagpakigbahin sa simulation lakip na ang 100 nga nagbaton sang ordinary flu vaccines agud makit-an ang posible nga scenario sang actual inoculation sa tion nga mag-abot na ang bakuna sa syudad.
Hugot naman nga ginpatuman ang health protocols sa nasambit nga simulation exercise.
Nahibaluan nga una nga tublukan sang bakuna sang AstraZeneca ang mga frontliners kag ginasundan sang vulnerable sectors.
Una nga haircut ni baby san-o dapat himuon?
Kita nga mga Filipino, madamo sang ginasunod nga pamahiin kag pagpati nga naghalin sa aton nga mga lolo kag lola.
Kaangay na lang sa una nga pagpagunting sang bata nga ginapahayag dapat ginahimo kun naga edad na ini sang isa ka tuig bangud kun mas timprano pa mahimo nga magsunggod ukon indi na magtubo sang maayo ang buhok ni baby.
Cindy Gellner, isa ka pediatrician, indi matuod ang mga pagpati sa mga pagbag-o nga matabo sa buhok sang bata kun ini ang utdan ukon guntingon.
Bangud ang hair texture kag growth rate sang kada tawo ang madetermina sa iya genetics kag maangkon lang ang pagbag-o kun siya ang mapaidalom sa chemotherapy.
Isa sa kinahanglan nga panumdumon sang ginikanan antes guntingan ang buhok ni baby — kun bala masarangan na sini nga magpungko ukon mabalanse sang maayo ang iya ulo.
Mga Pinoy nga mapauli sa Pilipinas nagikan sa mga pungsod nga nakatravel ban sa Pilipinas, ipaidalum sa istrikto nga quarantine–DOH
Ipaidalum sa istrikto nga quarantine sa Manila ang mga pinoy nga magapauli nagikan sa mga pungsod nga nakared-flag ukon nakatravel ban sa Pilipinas.
Mary Jane Juanico, COVID-19 spokesperson kag pinuno sang Infectious Disease Section sang DOH Region VI, iya ginpahayag nga gilayon nga ipaidalum sa Real-Time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test ang mga pumuluyo nga halin sa mga pungsod nga nakatravel ban sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Juanico, matapos ang tatlo ka adlaw, magapatigayon liwat sang swab test.
Kun magnegatibo ang resulta sang duha ka swab test, diri na kag mapahanugutan nga makapuli ang mga indibidwal sa ila banwa.
Nakadepende naman suno kay Juanico sa pagsulundan sang kada Local Government Unit ang pag-akomodar sang ila pumuluyo nga magapauli.
Matandaan nga una na nga ginpahayag ni Presidential Spokesman Atty.
Harry Roque nga indi dali-dali nga makasulod sa pungsod ang mga naghalin sa abroad bangud kinahanglan nga mag-agi sila sa hugot nga health screening kaupod na diri ang pagpaidalom sa swab test kag quarantine.
DOH, wala pa sang opisyal nga pagsulundan sa paggamit sang saliva test sa COVID-19
Nagpaandam ang Department of Health (DOH) sa mga private laboratories nga nagatanyag sang saliva test sa COVID-19.
Mary Jane Juanico, COVID-19 spokesperson kag pinuno sang Infectious Disease Section sang DOH Region VI, iya ginpahayag nga wala pa sila makapaggwa sang opisyal nga pagsulundan may kaangtan sa paggamit sang saliva test sa COVID-19.
Gin-athag ni Juanico nga ang Philippine Red Cross (PRC) lamang ang ginhatagan sang approval nga makapatigayon sang saliva test.
Buot silingon, ang saliva test nga himo sang PRC lamang ang ginakonsiderar nga opisyal kag mahimo nga gamiton sang isa ka indibidwal.
Santo sa pagtuon nga gin-obra sang PRC, naggwa nga masobra sa 98 percent ang ka-epektibo sang saliva test.
Sa subong, ang Research Institute of Tropical Medicine (RITM) ang nagavalidate kun mahimo nga gamiton ang saliva test sa iban nga mga laboratoryo sa pungsod.
Suplay sang baboy sa Iloilo, amat-amat na nga naganubo
ILOILO CITY- Amat- amat na nga naganubo ang numero sang ginaihaw nga baboy sa Iloilo City Slaughterhouse.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Simplicio Subaldo, Executive Assistant for Local Economic Enterprise, iya ginpahayag nga nabudlayan na mangita ang mga supplier nga nagadala sang baboy nga amo ang ginaihaw sa slaughter house.
Suno kay Subaldo, kon sadto, indi magnubo sa 300 ka mga baboy ang ginaihaw sa isa ka adlaw apang subong, yara na lang ini sa 260 tubtob 270.
Pahayag ni Subaldo, ini ang resulta sang pagsuplay sang Iloilo sang baboy sa iban nga rehiyon kon sa diin indi naman mahimo nga magpasulod sang baboy gikan sa iban nga rehiyon bangod sa pagpamahog sang African Swine Fever.
Dugang ni Subaldo, mas ginapili sang mga nagasagod sang baboy nga ibaligya ang ila sapat sa mga manugbakal sang baboy agud i-supply sa iban nga rehiyon bangud sa mas mahal nga presyo kag mas dako ang ila maginansya kun ipaanggid sa presyuhanay sa Iloilo.
Nagpangabay naman ini nga kon mahimo, untaton anay ang pagsuplay sang baboy sa gwa sang rehiyon 6 agud indi man maapektuhan ang suplay sa Western Visayas.
Bureau of Animal Industry, liwat nga nagpaandam batok sa pagbakal ‘online’ sang pork products
ILOILO CITY- Liwat nga nagpaandam ang Bureau of Animal Industry Region 6 nga likawan ang pagbakal ‘online’ sang mga karne sang baboy bangod posible nga halin ini sa mga lugar nga apektado sang African Swine Fever.
John Roel Hilario, Regional Veterinary Quarantine Officer sang Bureau of Animal Industry Region 6,iya ginpahayag nga kinahanglan nga labi nga mahinalungon ang mga pumuluyo sang Western Visayas ilabi pa nga nakalab-ot na sa area sang Leyte ang African Swine Fever.
Hilario, mas maayo nga lokal nga karne sang baboy na lang ang konsumuhon sang mga pumuluyo bangod magluwas nga barato, mas safe ini.
Nagpaandam man ini sa mga negosyante nga mahimo magpalusot sang pork products gikan sa iban nga rehiyon nga magluwas nga kumpiskaron ang ila mga baligya, mahimo man nga i-suspend ang ila lisensya kag ang registration sang mga transport carriers.
Sa subong suno kay Hilario, may yara sang 1.2 million nga swine sa rehiyon 6 kag bastante ini para sa konsumo sang mga pumuluyo.
Active cases sang dengue sa Calaparan, Arevalo, Iloilo City, 2 na lang
ILOILO CITY- Nadugangan sang duha ang kaso sang dengue hemorrhagic fever sa Calaparan, Arevalo, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Barangay Kagawad Rodrigo Montaño, iya ginpahayag nga ang duha ka mga pasyente ang ginalakipan sang isa ka 17-anyos nga lalaki, kag lima ka tuig nga bata nga lunsay admitted sa ospital.
Suno kay Montaño, sa subong ,duha lang ang active cases sang dengue sa ila barangay bangud nga nakarecover na ang walo ka nauna nga narecord.
Ginpahayag naman sang kagawad nga padayon ang ila mga programa agud matapna ang pagduging sang mga lamok nga nagadala sang dengue virus.
FDA, nagpaandam sa nagabakal sang unregistered AiDeLai nga face mask
Nagpanawagan ang Food and Drug Administration (FDA) sa publiko nga siguraduhon nga nag-agi sa inspeksyon sang ahensya ang face mask antes baklon kag gamiton.
Ini matapos nagpaggwa sang damlag lang ang FDA batok sa lima ka brand sang face mask nga wala nag-agi sa pag-evaluate sang ahensya kag wala sang product notification certificate.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Angel Guzman, supervisor sang FDA Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga dapat siguraduhon sang publiko nga yara sa listahan sang ahensya ang mask bag-o gamiton.
Sa mga abiso nga ginpaggwa sang FDA, lakip sa mga indi sertipikado sa medical use amo ang AiDeLai disposable face mask, kag isa pa ka unbranded nga disposable mask.
Ginpaathag ni Guzman nga kun ang face mask indi para sa medical use, indi ini epektibo nga gamiton para sa mga ospital, clinic ukon ano man nga health facility clinic.
Dugang pa ni Guzman, ginadumilian man ang pagbaligya kag pagpromote sang produkto samtang wala pa sang notification certificate halin sa ila.
Drilon, duda sa mga balibad sang gobyerno angot sa Sinovac vaccine sang China
ILOILO CITY- Ginpatpat sang isa ka opposition senator ang pila ka mga rason kon ngaa kinahanglan nga imbestigaran sang maid-id ang pagduso sang gobyerno nga pag-procure sang Sinovac vaccine sang China.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Senate Minority Leader Franklin Drilon, iya ginpahayag nga makaduluda kon ngaa nagapamalibad ang gobyerno nga isapubliko ang presyo sang bakuna bangod sa confidentiality.
Suno sa Ilonggo senator, maathag sa konstitusyon nga kinahanglan nga may yara sang transparency sa tanan nga transaksyon sang gobyerno bangod kinamatarong sang mga Pilipino nga mahibaluan ini.
Dugang pa ni Drilon, importante man nga ipaathag sang gobyerno kon ngaa ginaduso sini ang Sinovac apisar nga wala pa ini mausar sa iban nga pungsod kag wala man gani ini nahatagan sang emergency use authority.
Una na nga gindeny ni vaccine czar Carlito Galvez Jr ang mga online posts nga ang Sinovac vaccine ang nagabalor sang P3,600, mas mataas sa P652 nga procurement cost nga ginhatag sa Indonesian Government sa diin nagpasalig ang vaccine czar nga indi man maglayo ang presyo sang Sinovac vaccine sang Indonesia sa Pilipinas.
Manubo nga IQ, isa sa sintomas sang bitukon nga tawo
Madamo sang sintomas agud nga mahibaluan kun ang isa ka tawo ang bitukon.
Ini ang kaangot sang ginahiwat sang Department of Health (DOH) nga National Deworming Campaign.
Target sang kampanya sang DOH nga mapurga ang 19 ka milyon nga school-aged children kag 23 ka milyon nga pre-school kag school-aged children nga out of school youth.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang pagpurga ukon deworming amo ang pagkuha sang mga bitok sa intestine sang isa ka tawo pinaagi sa pag-inom sang bulong.
Suno kay Tiangha, ang mga bitok ang nagakuha sang nutrisyon sang tawo.
Ang bitok amo ang ginatunaan sang pagpalanakit sang tiyan kag masami nga pagsuka nga magaresulta sa malnutrition.
Lakip man sa sintomas suno kay Tiangha kun ang isa ka tawo bitokon, amo ang pagkatol ukon pagsakit sa palibot sang alatrasan, manubo nga intelligence quotient (IQ), anemia kag gilayon nga pagniwang ukon pagtambok.
Agud malikawan ang pag-angkon sang parasite sa tiyan ukon bitok, naghatag sang pila ka panugyan ang doktor.
Western Visayas, nadugangan sang 11 ka mga nag-ayo sa COVID-19
Naglab-ot sa 43 ang panibag-o nga narekord nga COVID-19 cases sa Western Visayas.
Santo sa Enero 17 nga bulletin sang Department of Health Region VI, 15 sa panibag-o nga kaso ang halin sa Bacolod City, 9 sa Aklan, duha sa Capiz, 11 sa Negros Occidental, kag anom sa Iloilo City.
Narecord man ang dugang nga 11 ka recoveries kag wala na sang may nagdugang sa mga napatay.
Ang Western Visayas ang may yara na subong sang 22,285 nga total reported cases sang COVID-19.
Iloilo Provincial Government, ginaplano na ang masunod nga tikang matapos napirmahan ang kasugtanan sa pagbakal sang COVID-19 vaccine
ang tanan nga mga alkalde sa Probinsya sang Iloilo matapos nga napirmahan na ang kasugtanan sa British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical kag biopharmaceutical company nga AstraZeneca agud magbakal sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga P65M ang ginpain sang probinsya para sa purchase price sang bakuna nga igahatag sa mga frontliners sa tagsa ka munisipalidad.
Suno sa gobernador, ang mangin masunod nga tikang sang probinsya amo ang pagbalay sang executive order para sa detalye sang implementasyon sang vaccination plan sa probinsya.
Gin-athag man sang gobernador nga magluwas sa bakuna nga libre nga ihatag sang probinsya sa kabanwahanan, mahimo man nga makabakal ang tagsa ka Local Government Unit sang kaugalingon nga bakuna para sa ila pumuluyo.
Nahibaluan nga inisyal nga magabakal ang Iloilo Province sang 270,000 nga doses sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Samtang, sa bahin naman sang mga pribado nga sektor ukon kompaniya nga magabakal sang kaugalingon nga bakuna para sa ila empleyado, ginpahayag ni Defensor nga mahimo magsulod sa multilateral agreement ini nga mga kumpaniya upod sa national government apang indi pa maathag sa gobernador kon paano ini patigayunon sa Iloilo.
Saliva testing para sa COVID-19, gin-umpisahan na sang Philippine Red Cross
ILOILO CITY- Gin-umpisahan na sang Philippine Red Cross ang pagpatigayon sang saliva testing para sa COVID-19.
Pauline Ubial, anay Department of Health Secretary kag sa subong head sang molecular laboratory sang Philippine Red Cross, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang mas madasig kag mas barato nga pamaagi agud ma-detect ang infection.
Suno kay Ubial, magapatigayon ang ahensya sang 1,000 saliva test sa diin ang resulta sini ang ipasa sa Department of Health (DOH) bilang kabahin sang requirements para sa approval sini.
Ginpahayag niya nga kinahanglan man sang approval sang Food and Drug Administration antes nga pasangkaron ang saliva testing.
Suno pa kay Ubial, ang turnaround time sang saliva testing ang mas manubo sa 12 oras kag mas madasig sa swab tests nga nagadugay sang 24 oras antes mapagwa ang resulta.
Ang saliva test ang ginalauman nga magapamag-an sang pinansyal nga palas-anon sang Philippine Health Insurance Corp.
(PhilHealth), nga nagabayad sa Red Cross para sa swab tests sang members sini sa diin nagabalor lang ini sang P2,000, kag halos katunga sang presyo sang isa ka swab test.
SK Chairman sa Calinog, nanguna sa pagdonar sang dugo sa Dugong Bombo
ILOILO CITY- Nagserbi nga ehemplo sa iya kaangay nga pamatan-on ang isa ka successful blood donor sa Dugong Bombo 2021 sa Calinog, Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Justin Pulohanan, Sangguniang kabataan Chairman sang Cabugao, Calinog, Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga naghatag gid siya sang iya tiempo agud magdonar sang dugo sa Dugong Bombo.
Suno sa iya, tuman ka importante ang dugo subong kag malipayon siya nga nangin instrumento agud makasugpon sa kabuhi sang iban.
Pahayag pa niya, ini ang iya pamaagi agud mapakita man sa kaangay niya nga pamatan-on nga may sarang sila mahimo para sa isigkatawo.
Ang Dugong Bombo ang natigayon sa pagbuligay sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo, Local Government Unit sang Calinog kag Philippine Red Cross.
Eksperto nagpaandam sa mga baratuhon nga cream nga pampaputi
Masami ginapangita sang kadam-an nga mga Pilipino amo ang epektibo nga mga cream, habon ukon ano man nga makapaputi ukon makapapino sang supat.
Apang ano ikaw ka sigurado nga safe ang mga ginagamit mo nga pampaputi ukon pampagwapa?
Ang Asia Pacific region ang may pinakadako nga share sa global skin lightening products sa merkado.
Samtang ang Pilipinas amo ang nagapanguna sa listahan nga mahilig magbakal sang mga pampaputi.
Suno kay Thony Dizon, isa ka chemical safety campaigner, ang mga baratuhon nga mga creams ukon pampaputi nga ginagamit sa nawong ang delikado sa panit bangud may yara ini sang mercury content.
Ang ini nga mga produkto ang mabakal sa tindahan nga nagabalor lamang sang singkwenta pisos (P50).
Ang paggamit sang produkto nga may mercury kag pagbutang sini sa supat adlaw-adlaw ang nagatuga sang tremors, kidney failures kag birth defects sa baby para sa mga nagabusong.
Gani panugyan sang doktor, kun luyag gid nga magpaputi, mangin mahinalungon sa mga ginabakal nga skin whitening products.
Gilayon nga pagniwang, isa sa sintomas sang liver cancer
Ginakabig nga top 7 nga makamamatay nga cancer sa bilog nga kalibutan amo ang liver cancer.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga cancer sa atay amo ang resulta sang pagdako sang mga hepatic cells sa lawas sang tawo nga nagatuga sang tumor.
Tiangha, pila sa mga sintomas ang liver cancer amo ang masunod:
Ang pagbulong naman sang nasambit nga balatian suno kay Tiangha, amo ang pagpatigayon sang operasyon agud kuhaon ang tumor sa atay pinaagi sa liver transplant.
Pahayag sang doktor, mahimo pilian sang pasyente agud nga makapabulong amo ang chemotherapy, immunotherapy, kag radiation therapy.
Agud makalikaw sa liver cancer, nagakadapat nga hibaluon ang health status sang partner bag-o makighilawas, likawan ang mga mapait nga pagkaon, pag-inom sang alcohol, kag untatan ang pagpanigarilyo.
Importante man suno sa doktor ang pag-angkon sang healthy lifestyle pinaagi sa diet kag exercise.
Nahibaluan nga subong nga bulan sang Enero amo ang Liver Cancer and Viral Hepatitis Awareness and Prevention Month.
Kaso sang COVID-19 sa Western Visayas, nadugangan pa sang 40 subong nga adlaw
Base sa January 6 bulletin sang Department of Health Region VI, 40 diri ang panibag-o nga mga kaso.
Yari ang mga probinsya kag syudad nga nakarekord sang pinakamataas nga numero sang bag-o nga COVIID-19 cases:
Sa recoveries, 22 ang nagdugang, samtang apat naman ang nagdugang sa mga napatay.
Sa subong, ang Rehiyon VI ang may yara na sang 21,783 nga total confirmed cases sang COVID-19; 20,316 ang reported recoveries; kag 662 ang reported deaths.
Defensor, handa na nga magpatublok sang bakuna
ILOILO CITY- Nagpasalig ang Iloilo Provincial Government nga maumpisahan na sa pinakamadali nga tion ang proseso sang pag-acquire sang probinsya sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., iya ginpahayag nga sa subong, yara pa lang ang probinsya sa lebel nga nagapakig-istorya ini sa mga kompaniya angot sa kon ano nga brand sang bakuna ang i-procure sang probinsya.
Suno kay Defensor, preparado na ang budget, ang cold storage para sa bakuna kag mangin ang kapasidad sang mga district hospitals.
May kaangtanan naman sa partnership sang provincial government kag sa mga private companies nga posible magsabat sang balayran sang pagpabakuna sang ila mga empleyado kaangay sang nangin commitment sang Florete Group of Companies, ginpahayag sang opisyal nga wala pa sang may naghatag sang commitment kag padayon pa ang ila pagconsolidate.
Nagpabutyag naman ang natungdan sang iya kahandaan nga magpatublok sang bakuna sa kondisyon nga strategic ini,napamatud-an nga safe kag maayo ang record.
Gin-athag naman niya nga ang bakuna ang back-up ukon suporta gid lamang bangod ang direksyon sang probinsya amo nga mapanubo gid ang kaso sang COVID-19.
Iloilo City Government, nagpakigsapol sa mga pharmaceutical companies sa pagbakal sang COVID-19 vaccine
ILOILO CITY – Nakigsapol na ang Iloilo City Government sa kumpaniya nga AstraZeneca sa pagbakal sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga sa tripartite agreement sang AstraZeneca, nakasaad nga dapat may yara sang 20 percent down payment.
Suno kay Treñas, kun matigayon, mahimo nga mag-abot sa syudad sang Iloilo ang COVID-19 vaccine sa bulan sang Mayo.
Apang ginpahayag ni Treñas, kun indi mapirmahan sang Department of Health ang nasambit nga tripartite agreement, sa 2022 pa makaabot ang bakuna sa syudad.
Pahayag sang alkalde, magluwas sa AstraZeneca, nagpadala man sang brochure ang Sputnik kag may natalana naman nga pagsinapol ang syudad sa Pfizer.
Gin-athag man sang natungdan nga ang pagpa-inject sang bakuna ang boluntaryo lamang kag wala sang pilitay.
Mga nag-ayo sa COVID-19 sa Western Visayas, nagdangat na sa 20,295
17 ka kaso sang COVID-19 ang nagdugang sa Western Visayas.
Sa January 5 bulletin sang Department of Health Region VI, 2 sa sini nga kaso ang halin sa Aklan, 3 sa Capiz, 5 sa Bacolod City, 2 sa Negros Occidental, kag 5 sa Iloilo City.
18 naman ang bag-o nga narekord nga nakarecover samtang 3 ang dugang sa mga napatay.
Sa subong, ang Rehiyon VI ang may yara na sang 21,743 ka kabug-usan nga kumpirmado nga kaso sang COVID-19; 784 sa sini ang active cases, 20,295 ang reported recoveries kag 658 ang total reported deaths.
COVID-19 vaccines sa mga ospital sa Estados Unidos, nagasulobra bangod sa iban nga mga frontliners nga indi magpatublok
ILOILO CITY- Nagasulobra lang ang COVID-19 vaccines sa mga local hospitals sa Estados Unidos.
John Tacapan, Bombo International Correspondent direkta sa California, iya ginpahayag nga may yara sang mga medical workers nga nagpamalibad nga magpatublok sang bakuna rason kun ngaa may yara sang surplus sang vaccines.
Tacapan, may iban nga frontliners nga indi luyag magbaton sang bakuna bangud ginadumilian ini sa ila kultura kag relihiyon.
Pahayag sang natungdan, ang mga surplus nga bakuna ang ginpakamaayo nalang nga itublok sa mga pamilya sang mga frontliners nga una na nga nahatagan sang una nga dose sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Nahibaluan nga gin-target sang gobyerno sang Estados Unidos nga ma-administer ang P20M doses sang bakuna sa pagtakop sang 2020 apang tubtob subong, yara pa lang ini sa 4M doses.
Samtang, sa tunga sang padayon nga mass vaccination, nagataas sa gihapon ang kaso sang COVID-19 sa US.
Suno kay Tacapan, madamo man sa gihapon ang nagakapatay adlaw-adlaw kag ini ang rason kon ngaa gina-reject nalang sang iban nga mga punerarya ang pagbaton sang mga napatay bangud sa COVID-19.
Pila dapat ka tasa sang kan-on ang kaunon?
1 ka tasa nga kan-on para sa mga babaye kag 1 kag tunga naman sa mga lalaki suno sa eksperto
Nagpaandam ang isa ka nutritionist batuk sa mga balatian nga mahimo makuha sa tuman nga pagkaon sang kan-on.
Suno kay Marilou Enteria, nutrition officer IV sang National Nutrition Council, isa ka tasa sang kan-on kada magkaon lang ang ginarekomenda sa mga babaye kag isa kag tunga naman sa mga lalaki.
Kun magsobra dira, ini ang nagapatambok kag posible nga halinan sang sakit kaangay sang diabetes, heart disease kag iban pa nga sahi sang cancer.
Apang pahayag sang eskperto, indi man pwede nga indi kana lang magkaon sang kan-on bangud diri nagakuha ang lawas sang enerhiya.
ILOILO CITY – Ginadesisyunan pa sa gihapon sang Iloilo City Government kun ano nga sahi sang vaccine ang baklon sang syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jeck Conlu, COVID-19 team spokesperson, iya ginpahayag nga may yara na sang P200 million nga balor sang pondo ang syudad sang Iloilo para sa pagabaklon nga COVID-19 vaccine.
Suno kay Conlu, padayon nga nagasapol ang Vaccine Procurement Committee sang syudad lakip na ang COVID-19 Team kag medical personnel.
Ginpahayag ni Conlu, maid-id nga ginaplanuhan ang pagpili sang baklon nga COVID-19 vaccine agud masiguro nga pinakamaayo, epektibo kag safe ini.
Sa subong suno sa natungdan, ginatinguhaan sang Iloilo City Government nga madugangan pa ang pondo para sa nasambit nga bakuna.
Mga puti nga lalaki, mas madasig nga matapikan sang testicle cancer
Ginakabig nga highly treatable ang testicle cancer.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga tumalagsahon nga kondisyon ang testicular cancer kag madamo na sang pamaagi nga mabulong ini subong nga panahon.
Tiangha, prone ini nga masakit sa mga lalaki nga maputi nga naga-edad 15 tubtob 35 anyos.
Ginpaathag sang doktor nga ang nagatubo nga germ cells sa testicle sang mga kalalakihan ang mahimo magdevelop sa tumor nga ginatunaan sang testicular cancer.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, lakip sa mga sintomas sang nasambit nga cancer amo ang pagdako kag pagbanog sang testicle, pagsakit sang likod kag hita.
Ano bala ang ginatawag nga ‘selfie syndrome?’ | Eksperto may paathag
Ikaw bala ang masami nga naga selfie sa imo nga smartphone?
Wala sang segundo, minuto ukon inoras ka nga malapawan bangud sa kada hulag mo, click ka lang nga click agud nga magkuha sang picture sang imo nga kaugalingon.
Nakahibalo ka bala nga mahimo mahulog sa addiction ang masami mo nga pag-selfie?
Robyn Silverman, teen development specialist, ang mga pre-adolescents kag teens ang padayon nga nagapangita sang pamaagi agud nga kilalahon ang kaugalingon kag makilala man sang iban.
Para naman sa mga tweens kag teens, ang mas dako nga kabahin sang ila social interaction sa isa ka adlaw ang pinaagi sa paggamit sang smartphones ukon social networking sites.
Suno sa doktor, ang pagkuha sang selfie nga paliwat-liwat kag makapila ka beses ang mahimo nga “harmless” lang lantawon apang kun ini ang ginahimo sa madugay na nga tion, oras-oras kag adlaw-adlaw, diri na kag nagatuga ang tuman nga self conscious, self-indulgent kag nagakaangkon sang “false sense of confidence” kag mas malala pa, nagakaangkon ikaw sang “narcissistic delusions”.
Kun kaisa ang pag-selfie pa ang kabangdanan sa pagka-aksidente sang isa ka tawo.
Patay bangud sa COVID-19 sa Western Visayas, wala na nadugangan subong nga adlaw
48 ka panibag-o nga kaso sang COVID-19 ang nagdugang sa Western Visayas.
Sa Disyembre 30 bulletin sang Department of Health Region VI, yari ang mga probinsya kag syudad nga may pinakamataas nga narekord nga bag-o nga kaso:
27 naman ang bag-o nga recoveries kag wala naman sang nagdugang sa mga napatay.
Sa subong, nagsaka na 21,546 ang kabug-usan nga kumpirmado nga kaso sang COVID-19 sa rehiyon.
Kun pahat-pahaton ang COVID-19 cases sa Rehiyon VI:
50 ka panibag-o nga kaso sang COVID-19, nagdugang sa Western Visayas
Base sa December 29 bulletin sang Department of Health Region VI, 50 diri ang panibag-o nga mga kaso.
Sa recoveries, 190 ang nagdugang, samtang anum naman ang nagdugang sa mga napatay.
Sa subong, ang Rehiyon VI ang may yara na sang 21,498 nga total confirmed cases sang COVID-19; 20,136 ang reported recoveries; kag 652 ang reported deaths.
Nakarekord ang Department of Health (DOH) Region 6 sang duha ka kaso sang mga nabiktima sang palupok.
Bea Natalaray, pinuno sang Non-Communicable Disease Sector sang DOH 6, iya ginpahayag nga ang monitoring ang nagsugod sang December 21 and as of December 27, may duha nga nalista.
Natalaray ang halin sa Bacolod City, 12 anyos nga dalagita nga may passive case sa diin naulamid lamang sa pagpalupok sang kasilingan kag nasamaran sa tuhod.
Ang ikaduha naman amo ang halin sa Batad, Iloilo, 13 anyos nga solterito nga may active case sa diin hungod nga nagpalupok pinaagi sa improvised explosive device nga boga kag nasamaran ang tuo nga mata.
Natalaray ang duha nga nasambit nga biktima kag nakapauli na sa ila mga balay.
Samtang, nagpanugyan man ang DOH Region 6 nga likawan ang paggamit sang palupok kag mag-angkon sang alternatibo nga merry making noise tools kaangay sang musical instruments kag mga kaldero.
Healthy Living, importante nga i-practice sang mga tao sa tunga sang pandemya — medical expert
Nagpanugyan ang isa ka medical expert sa publiko nga importante ang pag-angkon sang healthy living sa pagsug-alaw sang bag-ong tuig.
Elvin Tiangha, iya ginpahayag nga ang tuig 2020 ang gintunaan sang pagbag-o sang lifestyle sang pumuluyo bangud sa COVID-19 pandemic.
Tiangha indi lamang ang pagkaon sang isa ka tawo apang amo man ang mental, spiritual, kag physical nga aspeto.
Bangud sini nagpanugyan ang doktor nga kun mahimo ulikdan gid ang pagkaon sang healthy angay sang utan, prutas kag pag-inom sang madamo nga tubig.
Likawan man suno sa natungdan ang tuman ka mga matam-is kag ma-asin nga pagkaon.
Tiangha, ang aton ginakaon ang nagaapekto man sa aton immunity sa diin tuman ka importante bangud sa ginapangatubang ng pagpanghangkat bangud sa coronavirus 2019.
Magluwas sini, importante man suno ky Dr.
Tiangha ang physical activity angay sang gardening, pag-exercise kag yoga.
Ang pagpasinalamaton ang makabulig man pasangkad sang mental kag physical health sang isa ka tawo.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, dako man nga butang ang masami nga pagpangamuyo kag pagdangop sa Ginoo agud mapamaayo ang kahimtangan sa spiritual nga health.
Tubunganon nga health worker sa US,isa man sa mga natublukan sang COVID-19 vaccine
ILOILO CITY- Kalipay ang nabatyagan sang isa ka Pinay health worker sa Estados Unidos matapos nakabaton sang una nga shot sang COVID-19 vaccine sang Moderna.
Suno kay Bombo International Correspondent Myrna Tacapan Urbasik, Occupational Therapist sa isa ka Skilled Nursing Home sa New York City kag tumandok sang Tubungan, Iloilo wala gid ini nagbatyag sang kakulba sang ginpatigayon na ang pagbakuna.
Ginpahayag niya nga mapalad siya bangud ginhatagan sang prayoridad ang mga health workers sa vaccination sa Estados Unidos.
Natalana naman nga tublukan si Tacapan sang ikaduha nga shot sang bakuna sa Enero 12.
Si Tacapan ang 20 ka tuig sa Estados Unidos sa diin 13 ka tuig diri ang iya ginbubu sa pagtrabaho bilang occupational therapist sa New York.
Iloilo City Mayor Treñas, ginpaanggid sa pagpangaluyag ang procurement sang COVID-19 vaccine
ILOILO CITY- Magasapol ang League of Cities of the Philippines agud istoryahan kun paano makabulig sa national government sa procurement sang COVID-19 vaccine para sa mga Filipino.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang pagsinapol kaupod sa pila ka alkalde ang may kaangtanan sa pag-designate sa iya bilang chairman sang isa ka kumitiba sa League of Cities matapos nagkumiter ini nga magagasto sang kaugalingon nga kwarta ang Syudad sang Iloilo kag indi na magsalig sa gobyerno sa pagprocure sang bakuna.
Ginpahayag ni Treñas nga positibo ini nga magailog man ang iban nga mga syudad sa amo nga inisyatibo agud magmag-an ang palas-anon sang gobyerno para pondohan ang pagbakal sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Luyag sang opisyal nga buligan man ang iban nga mga syudad nga wala sang pondo nga makapangita sang kwarta agud ibakal man sang bakuna para sa ila mga pumuluyo.
Target naman sang alkalde nga makighinun-anon sa League of Provinces and League of Municipalities agud nga maengganyo man ang mga ini nga magmato-mato sa pagpangita sang pondo.
Gindugang pa sang alkalde nga importante nga maistoryahan man ang pila ka mga concerns may kaangtanan sa pagprocure sang bakuna kaangay sang gasto sa transportation kag storage facilities agud nga mapreparahan kag makapangita sang iban nga alternatibo samtang temprano pa.
Nahibaluan nga ang Florete Group of Companies sa pagpanguna sang chairman nga si Dr.
Rogelio Florete ang una nga nagsabat sa panawagan ni Mayor Treñas nga hatagan sang libre nga COVID-19 vaccine ang iya mga regular nga empleyado.
Paghampang sang monyeka, nagapa-aktibo sa paminsaron sang imo anak
Sa subong, mas tutok na ang mga kabataan sa mga gadgets apang may yara man nga iban nga padayon sa gihapon nagahampang sang monyeka ukon doll ilabi na ang inyo mga anak nga babaye.
Sarah Gerson, isa ka neuroscientist, ang paghampang sang monyeka ang nagabulig sa ila agud nga madevelop ang empathy.
Pinaagi sang empathy, mas mahangpan sang imo anak ang behavior sang iban nga tawo.
Mas naga-aktibo man ang paminsaron sang bata sa paghampang sang monyeka kun ipaanggid sa mga gadgets.
Pahayag pa sang doctor, wala sang dapat kabalak-an kun naga-isahanon ang imo anak sa paghampang sang mga monyeka bangud mas mahanas pa gid sini ang iya mga skills.
Paggamit sang cellphone ukon gadget, makaguba sa sleeping pattern
Kun matam-an expose ang mga mata sang isa ka-tawo sa Ultraviolet (UV) light nga masami makuha sa mga gadgets nga cellphone ukon computer, ini ang tunaan sang pagkaguba sang tulog ukon sleeping pattern.
Jere Ledesma Cejar, isa ka Optometrist, iya ginpahayag nga may macular degeneration ukon pagkaguba sang central portion sang retina kun matam-an ini sang UV Light nga amo ang ginatunaan sang tuman nga pagpulaw sang iban nga tawo nga mahimo makapanubo sang immune system.
Ginpanugyan man sang natungdan nga pili-on ang orihinal nga sahi sang lenses sa antipara agud maprotektahan ang mga mata.
Samtang ang mga optometrist indi lamang literal nga nagabulig improve sang vision sang isa ka tawo kundi nga empower man sa vision ukon panan-awan sa pangabuhi.
Ini amo ang katungdanan sang isa ka optometrist pinaagi Neuro-Linguistic Programming.
Jun Acebedo, iya ginapahayag nga ang nasambit nga Neuro-Linguistic Programming amo ang simple nga study of excellence.
Acebedo, specialization man niya ang pagbag-o sang mindset sa mga pumuluyo padulong sa kadalag-an sa pangabuhi.
Pahayag sang natungdan nga ang tanan naga-umpisa sa paminsaron kag may mga proseso lamang nga dapat sundon.
Ang pag-angkon sang sip-on ang idi lang tungod sa ulan ukon sa malamig nga tyempo.
Sunod-sunod ang mga bagyo nga nagsulod sa pungsod sang damlag lang.
Bangud sini madamo man ang nagaka-eksperyensya sang ubo kag sip-on ilabi na ang mga magagmay nga bata nga masami nagamasakit.
Sa pagdumdom sang kadam-an, ang ubo kag sip-on ang nagakabatyagan lang kun tig-ululan.
Maricar Limpin, isa ka pulmonologist, ang ubo kag sip-on ang tuga sang virus nga kun tawgon rhinovirus nga mas ginapabaskog pa sang malamig nga temperatura.
Sa tion sang tig-ululan, mas nagakabuhi kag mas madasig nga nagadamo ang virus nga nagatinir sa lawas sang tawo.
Apisar nga ubo lang kag sip-on ang imo nabatyagan, mahimo ini sa gihapon nga maglala kun pabay-an ilabi na kun mahina ang imo immune system.
Panugyan sang doktor, mas maayo nga likawan nga mabasa sang ulan, masami nga maghugas sang kamot, mag-exercise kag magtulog sang insakto ukon bastante nga oras.
Nagaproblema ka bala sa pagpakaon sa imo anak?
Kabahin na sang pagpadako sa bata ang pag-angkon sang problema sa pagkaon.
Apang indi ka dapat mawad-an sang paglaum!
Madamo sang pamaagi nga pwede mo himuon agud mangin mabaskog kag may gana magkaon ang imo anak.
Richard Mata, isa ka pediatrician, mahimo nga namana sang bata ang pagkamapili sini sa pagkaon sa iya man nga nanay sang ini ang bata pa.
Kun kaisa, mas mahilig mag-inom sang gatas ang mga bata rason nga nagaproblema ini nga makakaon sang solid foods.
Kag ang solusyon pa sang ila iloy agud magkaon si baby, ginakusi ini ukon ginbakol.
Importante nga tandaan sa pagpakaon sang bata, dapat indi sila pag i-pressure.
Kun luyag mo nga magkaon sang utan ang imo anak, gamayon lamang ini nga mahimo mo ma-impon sa iban niya nga ginakaon agud indi sini masaboran sang maayo.
Uso man subong ang mga ginatawag nga bento box sa diin imo mapakita ang pagka-creative sa pagkaayo sang pagkaon ni baby nga manami sa iya panan-awan.
Kinahanglan lang nga palabaon mo ang imo pasensya sa mga chikitings kag ipahangop sang maayo ang manami nga benepisyo nga maangkon sang ila lawas sa pagkaon sang masustansya nga mga pagkaon kaangay na lang sang utan kag prutas.
DOH may panugyan subong nga holiday season
Ginpatpat sang Department of Health Region 6 ang mga dapat kag indi dapat paghimuon subong nga holiday season.
Reynilyn Reyes, pinuno sang public health program development cluster sang DOH Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga likawan gid ang pagpalupok sang firecrackers bangud mahimo pa ini tunaan sang aksidente.
Usisaon man sang maayo ang ginabakal nga hampanganan nga inug regalo sa mga kabataan bangud ang iban diri ang peke ukon delikado sa ikaayong lawas sang bata.
Kinahanglan nga magkaon sang pagkaon nga masustansya kag in-moderation.
I-obserba ang minimum health stadard kag indi pagkalimtan ang BIDA solusyon ukon;
B- bawal ang wala sang mask I- i-sanitize ang mga kamot gamit ang tubig ukon alcohol D – distansya sang isa ka metro kag; A – alamin ukon hibaluon ang insakto nga impormasyon
Syudad sang Iloilo,handa na para sa simbang gabi; probinsya, gin-adjust ang curfew para sa mga sumilimba
ILOILO CITY- Handa na ang Iloilo City Government sa pagsugod sang simbang gabi.
Jeck Conlu, spokesperson sang COVID-19 team sang syudad, iya ginpahayag nga may yara sang ipangdeploy sa simbahan nga mga katapo sang Public Safety and Transportation Management Office, Philippine National Police kag mga volunteer groups.
Suno kay Conlu, magluwas sa paghatag sang seguridad, katungdanan sang deployment team nga ipatuman ang minimum health protocol sa mga sumilimba kaangay sang social distancing kag pagsuksok sang facemasks agud malikawan ang paglapta sang coronavirus disease 2019.
May kaangtanan naman sa ginapatuman nga curfew humalin alas otso sa gab-i tubtob alas kwatro sa kaagahon para sa mga menor de edad, gin-athag ni Conlu nga mahimo maggwa ang mga ini sa balay sa tion sang curfew hours agud magtambong sa misa sa kondisyon nga may upod sila nga ginikanan ukon guardian.
Sa bahin naman sang Probinsya sang Iloilo, gin-adjust man paagi sa isa ka ordinansa ang curfew hours.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., iya ginpahayag nga sa baylo nga alas nuebe sa gab-i tubtob alas kwarto sa kaagahon ang curfew, ini ang magasugod na sa alas-dies sa gab-i kaga magatakop sa alas-kwatro sa kaagahon.
Suno kay Governor Defensor, katuyuan sini nga mahatagan sang ligwa ang oras sang pagpauli sang mga tawo ilabi na ang mga empleyado bangud ginalauman ang pag-extend sang mga ini sa trabaho subong nga holiday season.
Magluwas diri, gin- adjust man ang curfew para sa simbang gabi agud mas malawig ang oras sang mga tawo nga nagapauli pagkatapos sang ila pagtambong sa misa.
Paghiwat sang simbang gabi sa barangay gym, OK suno sa simbahan
ILOILO CITY- Ginatugyan na sang Archodiocese of Jaro sa mga kura paroko sa mga parokya ang desisyon kun hiwaton sa gym sa baylo nga sa simbahan ukon chapel ang misa may kaangtanan sa pagsugod sang simbang gabi.
Angelo Colada, director sang Commission on Social Communications kag spokesperson man sang Archdiocese of Jaro, iya ginpahayag nga bangud ginalauman nga madamo ang magatambong sa misa, indi maakomodar sang mga kapilya ang kadamuon sang sumilimba.
Suno kay Father Colada, kun may mga gym sa barangay, mas maayo nga diri nalang hiwaton ang misa agud mas madamo ang makatambong kag mas mapatuman ang physical distancing.
Samtang, ginpaathag naman ni Father Colada ang kinalain sang misa sa gab-i kag misa sa kaagahon.
Suno sa pari, ang misa sa gab-i ang ginatawag nga mass of waiting ukon simbang gabi samtang ang misa naman sa kaagahon amo ang Aguinaldo mass.
Pahayag sang natungdan, bangud sa pandemya,ang Aguinaldo mass sa 4:30 sa kaagahon ang ginasugpunan sang mass of the day sa alas-sais sa aga agud ma-cater ang mas madamo nga sumilimba.
Gindugang naman ni Colada nga pwede sa gihapon makambyo ang pagtambong sa misa sa diin sa baylo nga sa kaagahon, sa gab-i nalang himuon ang pagsimba agud malikawan ang pagginutok.
3 ka Pinoy health workers, nalakip sa una nga lima ka tawo nga nahatagan sang COVID-19 vaccine sa Canada
ILOILO CITY- Pinay ang una nga nakabaton sang COVID-19 vaccine sa Ontario, Canada.
Suno kay Bombo International Correspondent Nowell Patrick Arnill Panes Relatos, direkta sa Canada, ginhandpick sang gobyerno sang Canada si Anita Quidangen, isa ka caregiver kag isa na ka Canadian citizen agud magbaton sang Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine.
Suno kay Relatos, prayoridad sang Canadian government nga una nga hatagan sang bakuna amo ang mga healthcare workers kag mga residente sang retirement homes.
Pahayag ni Relatos, napilian si Quidangen bangud sa dedikasyon niya sa trabaho sa diin naga double shift pa ini bilang personal support worker sa isa ka Rekai Centre nursing home sa Toronto.
Magluwas kay Quidangen, duha pa ka mga healthcare workers nga may Filipino heritage ang nalakip man sa una nga lima ka recipients sang bakuna.
Ini amo sanday Cecile Lasco nga isa ka health worker kag Lucky Aguila nga isa ka registered practical nurse.
Nahibaluan nga target sang Canada nga makakuha sang 249,000 doses sang bakuna antes magtakop ang tuig apang nagahulat pa ini sang 20 million doses gikan sa Pfizer-BioNTech.
UV Light kag Blue Light, ginatunaan sang pagkaguba sang mata
Pagkaguba sang mata ang epekto sang Ultraviolet (UV) Light kag Blue Light suno sa medical eye expert.
Jere Ledesma Cejar, isa ka Optometrist, iya ginpahayag nga kun matam-an ang mata sang isa ka tawo sang ultraviolet light kag blue light, ini ang nagaresulta sang insomnia ukon indi dali makatulog.
Cejar, kun tuman ka exposed ang aton mata sang UV light sa diin makuha sa mga computer, cellphone kag iban pa nga gadget, ginapahina sini ang aton immune system pinaagi sa pagkakulang sa pagtulog sa diin delikado bangud sa pandemya nga nagakatabo subong nga panahon.
Ginrekomenda naman sang natungdan nga mahimo magamit sang mga eyeglasses sa diin may optical filters nga makaprotekta sa mata.
DOH natumod na ang mga “strategic area” para sa cold storage sang COVID-19 vaccine
Plano sang Department of Health (DOH) nga himuon nga “strategic area” para sa cold storage sang maabot nga mga COVID-19 vaccine ang pila ka mga probinsya sa gwa sang National Capital Region (NCR).
Suno kay Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire, magaserbe nga central hub sang storage sang mga bakuna ang NCR.
Lakip sa mga lugar sa gwa sang NCR nga target sang ahensya nga taguan sang COVID-19 vaccines amo ang Bicol region, Cebu, kag Zamboanga Peninsula.
Magluwas sa natumod nga mga rehiyon kag probinsya, ginatun-an man sang ahensya ang iban pa nga mga lugar nga mahimo mangin cold storage hub sang vaccines sa gwa sang Metro Manila.
Nahibaluan nga pila ka mga bakuna ang nagakinahanglan sang malamig nga temperatura agud mangin epektibo sa tawo.
Doon natin maitatalaga kung anong klaseng storage facilities ang maisasama natin.”
Sa subong, padayon pa nga nagapakighinun-anon ang gobyerno sa pribado nga sektor para sa bulig nga mahimo nila ipalab-ot kaagot sa cold storage.
“Humahanap pa tayo kung ito ay magiging appropriate sa isang government facility o ito ay magiging appropriate sa private na makakapag-kontrata tayo with them.”
“Pero ang tinitingnan pa lang natin ay location para makita natin kung strategic enough at makakabawas enough at magiging efficient ang ating gobyerno sa pagdi-distribute.”
Aton hibaluon | Mga pagkaon nga makaapekto sang imo pagtulog
Ang 2020 ang ginakabig nga indi maayo nga tuig para sa pagtulog.
Humalin sa COVID-19 pandemic tubtob sa mga obligasyon sa eskwelahan kag trabaho, makatulog ka pa ayhan sang insakto sa walo ka oras?
Isa sa factors nga makaapekto sa pagtulog amo ang imo mga ginakaon.
Suno kay Marie-Pierre St-Onge, associate professor sa nutritional medicine sa Columbia University Irving Medical Center kag director sang Sleep Center of Excellence sa Columbia, ang mga pagkaon nga may mataas nga lebel sang kalamay, saturated fat kag processed carbohydrates ang makaguba sang imo manami nga tulog.
Mas maayo suno sa eksperto nga magkaon sang mga pagkaon nga manggaron sa fiber, unsaturated fat kaangay sang mani, olive oil, isda kag utan bangud makabulig ini agud maangkon mo ang bastante kag mahamuok nga tulog.
Dapat nga magkaupod gid pahayag sang eksperto ang healthy diet kag healthy sleep.
Probinsya sang Iloilo,wala pa sang budget para sa COVID-19 vaccine
ILOILO CITY- Wala pa sang budget allocation ang Iloilo Provincial Government para sa pagbakal sang COVID-19 vaccine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., iya ginpahayag nga sa subong, mas ginauna ang pagbalay sang mga guidelines para sa vaccination paagi sa iya direktiba sa Provincial Health Office.
Suno sa gobernador, indi pa advisable sa subong ang pagpain sang budget.
Apang sa tion nga kinahanglanon na, mahapos lang nga mangita sang supplemental budget nga magahalin sa Maintenance and Other Operating Expenses (MOOE) para ibakal sang bakuna.
OB-GYNE, nagpanugyan sa mga bana sa ila dako nga rolyo sa pagbusong sang ila misis
Atensyon sa mga lalaki nga malapit na lang mangin daddy.
Dako ang imo nga katungdanan sa pagbusong sang imo asawa.
Sabiha Anjum, isa ka obstetrician and Gynaecologist, sa pagbusong sang mga babaye, kinahanglan nga mapabilin sini ang healthy pregnancy gani dapat man nga yara ikaw sa ila nga tupad.
Pero paano mo bala mabuligan si misis agud nga maangkon sini ang healthy pregnancy?
Kun wala ka man lang sang trabaho ukon day off mo, updi si misis sa tanan sini nga check up ukon appointments.
I-remind man si misis nga imnon ang iya vitamins bangud kun kaisa nagakalipa ini.
Mas maayo nga ibutang na sa kilid sang pinggan ang iya supplements agud insakto sa oras ang iya pag-inom.
Ang pag-isip sang sipa ni baby sa sulod sang tyan ni misis ang isa sa manami nga bonding activity para sa inyo nga mag-asawa.
Mahimo mo man kantahan ukon istoryahon si baby.
Sa sini nga mga simple nga buluhaton para sa imo nga misis, pat-od nga ma-appreciate ka gid niya kag mas magadalom pa gid ang iya paghigugma sa imo.
Ipabilin nga mangin resposable nga bana kag amay sa imo nga asawa kag kabataan.
Tanan nga empleyado sang DOH, handa nga mahatagan sang COVID-19 vaccine agud mapakita nga safe ini sa publiko
Sa tunga sang huring-huring sang pila ka mga pumuluyo sa seguridad sang coronavirus disease (COVID-19) vaccines, ginpasigurado sang Department of Health (DOH) nga handa ang bilog nga ahensya nga una nga mahatagan sini sa tion nga mag-abot na sa Pilipinas ang bakuna.
Suno kay Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire, nakahanda sila ni Health Secretary Francisco Duque III kag mga opisyal sang ahensya agud mapamatud-an nga safe ini kag wala sang malain nga epekto.
Apang suno kay Vergeire, magaagi anay sa maid-id nga pagpanalawsaw sang mga eksperto ang bakuna antes ini aprubahan nga gamiton sa Pilipinas.
Talagang kung kailangang tayo ang dapat mauna sa pagpapabakuna ay magpapabakuna po tayo,” pahayag ni Vergeire.
Gin-ako man sang natungdan nga madamo sa subong ang nahadlok bangud sa kontrobersiya sang Dengvaxia vaccine sang tyempo ni anay Health Secretary Janette Garin kag sa administrasyon ni Presidente Benigno Aquino III sa diin ginabasol sila sa kamatayon sang pila ka mga estudyante.
Sa tion nga maaprubahan na sa Pilipinas ang mga bakuna, lakip sa mga prayoridad nga mahatagan sini amo ang mga masunod:
Hibaluon | Mga pamaagi agud mabuhinan ang sakit nga nabatyagan sang lapsag pagkatapos ang pagpabakuna
Atensyon sa mga ginikanan nga may yara sang baby.
Nabudlayan ka man bala magpahipos sa imo anak kun ini ang bakunahan?
Indi magkabalaka bangud may yara sang pila ka mga tips agud nga mabuhinan ang sakit nga nabatyagan sang imo nga baby pagkatapos ini nga mabakunahan.
Suno sa pagtuon sang Canadian Pediatric Society, nagalab-ot sang manubo sa 50% ang numero sang mga bag-o bun-ag nga lapsag ang nagabaton sang pain relief sa tunga sang medical procedures.
Apang yari ang pila ka mga tips kag tricks agud makabulig sa pagpahagan-hagan sa sakit nga ginbatyag sang imo babay sa isa ka medical procedure;
Makabig nga bulong para sa mga baby ang breastfeeding.
Ang mga bata nga nagasuso sa ila nga iloy ang may manubo nga pain response kaangay sang pag-hibi kag pagbag-o sang heart rate.
Ang skin-to-skin contact ang kilala bilang “kangaroo care” kun sa diin karga mo ang imo baby nga naka diaper lamang kag nakapatong sa imo nga dughan.
Suno sa pagtuon, ang mga lapsag nga may skin-to-skin contact sa ila iloy ang mas madasig nga mag-ayo kag gamay lang nga sakit ang mabatyagan.
Apang kun dini mo masarangan nga himuon ang duha ka mga pamaagi, mahimo mo man nga mahatagan sang pacifier ang imo nga baby.
Mahimo ka man magbutang sang numbing cream sa tuslukan sang injecton isa ka oras antes ang procedure.
Pagpalanakit sang tuhod sang imo anak, ano ang kabangdanan kag paano ini mabulong?
Sa mga iloy nga may yara sang makulit nga mga anak, nagalibog man bala ang imo ulo kun ngaa nagareklamo ini sa pagpalanakit sang tuhod?
Para sa mga bata nga aktibo sa patag sang sports, ang pinaka-ginagamit nila nga parte sang lawas amo ang tuhod.
Mark Halstead, sports medicine specialist, kun nagapalamanog ang tuhod sang imo anak, mahimo nga may yara ini sang nana nga tuga sang bacterial infection.
Kun mainit kag nagapalamula ang tuhod naman sini, posible nga may juvenile arthritis ang imo anak.
Ini ang makit-an sa nauna nga bahin sang ila nga tuhod.
Maangkon ini sang mga bata nga naga edad 6 months old tubtob 16 anyos.
May yara man sang ginatawag pahayag sang doktor sang Jumper’s Knee.
Ini ang bangud sa tuman nga paglumpat ukon squatting.
Nagakaapektuhan sini ang tendon fibres sa tuhod sang imo anak.
Panugyan sang doktor, kun makabatyag sang pagpalanakit sang tuhod ang imo bata, himuon ang RICE method ukon Rest, Ice, Compression, Elevation agud indi na maglala pa ang sakit kag magpakonsulta sa doktor.
Ano bala ang mga kinaiya sang iloy nga dako ang tyansa nga masubli sang iya anak?
Atensyon sa mga ginikanan ilabi na sa mga nanay.
Ang inyo mataas nga ilong, bibig ukon mata?
Indi manigar nga kun kaisa nagabaisay ang mag-asawa kun sa diin nakuha sang ila anak ang pamatasan sini ukon mga hilig.
Suno kay Dawn Allain, genetic counselor kag director sang Genetic Counselling Graduate Program sa The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, indi lamang sa mga ginikanan makuha sang mga kabataan ang mga pamatasan ukon hilig sini kundi mismo sa iya man nga palibot.
Apang kun istoryahan ang mga kinaiya sang isa ka iloy nga napasa sini sa iya anak, ang una diri amo ang memorya.
May yara sang kahilabtanan ang kondisyon sang memorya sang mga tawo bangud sa ila mga iloy.
Ini bangud sa mga nanay nagahalin ang mataas nga risgo sa pag-angkon sang Alzheimer’s disease.
Samtang kun manubo naman ang lebel sang serotonin sang imo nga iloy, mahimo nga ikaw man ang mag-angkon sang attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder sa tion nga ikaw ang magtigulang.
Kag… pasensya lang sa mga tatay ha bangud daog sa subong ang mga nanay.
Ini bangud ang kaalam sang iloy ang mahimo nga mapasa sa mga kabataan kag bangud ini sa duha ka X chromosomes nga nagahalin sa iloy samtang isa lang ang iya sang amay.
Tubig sang swimming pool, delikado sa mga kabataan suno sa eksperto
Na eksperyensyahan mo na bala nga maka inom sang tubig sa pool?
Kadam-an sa mga naka-eksperyensya sini amo ang mga kabataan bangud iban sa ila ang indi pa makahibalo maglangoy.
Sampson Davis, emergency room physician sa Meadowlands Hospital Medical Center sa New Jersey, kun madamo nga tubig sa pool ang mainom sang bata, mahimo ini nga ma-poison ukon makaangkon sang recreational water illness.
Ang tubig sa pool ang may yara sang chlorine — isa ka kemikal nga ginagamit agud nga malikawan ukon mapatay an bacteria.
Sa tion nga maka-inom sang tubig ang bata sa pool, panugyan ni Dr.
Davis, obserbahan ang kondisyon sini matapos mag-swimming.
Lakip sa mga senyales nga indi maayo ang kahimtangan sang bata amo ang pagsakit sang tyan, pagsuka, pag-ubo, mabudlay sa pagginhawa kag ginakapoy.
Gani kun magpaligo sa pool, mas maayo nga bantayan sang maayo ang mga kabataan.
100+ fisherfolks sa Guimaras, nakabaton na sang financial assistance halin sa AC Energy
ILOILO CITY- Nabaton na sang mga fisherfolks sang Taminla, Buenavista, Guimaras ang financial assistance gikan sa AC Energy kaangot sa paglupok sang power barge nga nagresulta sa oil spill sa kalalawran sang Guimaras kag Iloilo sang Hulyo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Buenavista, Guimaras Mayor Eugene Gallo Reyes, iya ginpahayag nga 139 ka mga fisherfolks ang nakabaton sang tseke sa diin wala man nagapalareho ang kantidad nga ginhatag sa mga claimants.
Suno kay Reyes, ang Taminla ang pinakauna nga barangay nga nakabaton sang ila claims gikan sa AC Energy.
Nahibaluan nga nagdangat tanan sa 8783 ang claimants sa bilog nga Iloilo kag Guimaras apang may yara sang 1900 nga mga na-disqualify.
Kilala nga pampaaslom sa sabaw kag iban pa nga putahe ang bunga sang sambag.
Apang indi lang sa pagluto may yara sang pulos ang sambag bangud epektibo man ini nga bulong kontra sa balatian bangud may yara ini sang bitamina kag mineral.
Suno kay Algy Bacla sang Philippine Academy of Naturopathic Medicine, epektibo nga bulong ang sambag sa anemia ukon kulang sa dugo nga nagatuga sang pagpalanghina.
Kun may yara naman ikaw sang sakit sa baga, almoranas, hilanat, sip-on kag mga impeksyon, magpabukal ka lang sang dahon kag panit sang sambag sa isa ka litro nga tubig.
Indi magkabalaka bangud ang sambag ang may yara sang proanthocyanidins nga amo ang nagabulig sa pag-refresh sang blood circulation.
DOH-6,nagpahanumdom angot sa pagpatigayon sang social gatherings subong nga holiday
ILOILO CITY- Nagpahanumdom ang Department of Health Region 6 angot sa pagpatigayon sang mass gatherings kadungan sang pagselebrar sang Paskwa.
Marie Jocelyn Te sang Department of Health Western Visayas Center for Health Development Meedical Offcier IV kag COVID-19 spokesperson, iya ginpahayag nga mas maayo nga mga myembro sang isa ka panimalay nalang ang magapatigayon sang selebrasyon.
Suno kay Te, kun indi gid man malikawan ang pagtililipon, mas maayo nga nagasunod gid sa minimum health protocols.
Dugang pa ni Te, mas maayo nga yara sa isa ka open venue ang mga pagtililipon agud nga indi madali-dali ang transmission kun may yara gid man.
Nagpanugyan man si Te sa mga mahilig magbyahe kun holiday season nga likawan ang magpadulong sa mga lugar nga may mas mataas nga quarantine status.
Mga pagkaon nga maalat kag matambok, dapat likawan subong nga holiday season-PHO
ILOILO CITY- Nagpaandam ang Provincial Health Office nahanungod sa mga pagkaon nga ginakonsumo subong nga holiday season.
Socorro Quiñon,Provincial Health Officer, iya ginpahayag nga kinahanglan nga mangin mapili sa pagkaon kag mas maayo nga makahibalo maglikaw sa pagkaon nga indi maayo sa lawas.
Suno kay Quiñon, likawan ang pagkaon sang matambok ukon maalat nga mga pagkaon bangud ini ang masami ginatunaan sang balatian kaangay sang hypertension kag sakit sa corazon.
Kun indi gid mapunggan, panugyan ni Quiñon nga diutay lang ang kaunon ukon hagan-haganon mangin sa mga ilimnon.
Suno pa sa iya, mas maayo man nga opsyon nga sa balay ginaluto ang pagkaon nga kaunon sa baylo nga ginabakal sa mga restaurants ukon iban pa nga food establishments agud masiguro nga safe ang ginapakaon mo sa imo pamilya.
Dugang pa niya, indi man dapat magkalipat nga mag-ehersisyo.
Kondisyon sang panit, may konseksyon sa kondisyon man sang imo lawas
Mahimo nga mangin pamaagi ang imo panit agud mahibaluan ang kondisyon sang imo ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay Ailyn Mae Kuan-Del Rio, isa ka nutritionist, kun diet ang paga-istoryahan, ano man ang imo ginakaon ang makaapekto sa imo ikaayong lawas kag mismo sa imo nga nawong.
Example diri amo nga kun hight-fat food ang imo ginakaon, mahimo nga makabatyag ikaw sang bug-at kag makaapekto ini sa imo panit.
Kun mataas ang kalamay nga may yara sa pagkaon, gina-atake sini ang collagen sa imo nga panit.
Kakulang sang sexual intercourse sa mga mag-asawa nagapahina sang immune system suno sa mga eksperto
Nahidlaw kana bala magdugsing kay mister ukon kay misis sa kama?
Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang madugay nga tion nga wala kamo naka-sex sang imo bana ukon asawa ang mahimo makapahina sang immune system?
Apang ini ang may kaangtanan sa syensya kag dugang ideya spara sa mga mag-asawa.
Cory Honickman, Modern Monogamy Consultant sa Los Angeles, California, indi lamang nagapahina sang immune system ang tumalagsahon nga pagpakighilawas kundi masami ka man nga ginatrangkaso.
Panugyan sang doktor, “have more sex” agud malikawan ang trangkaso.
Pahayag naman ni Yvonne Fulbright, PhD kag sexual health expert, ang mga tawo nga may active sex life ang may mataas nga resistensya sa lawas kontra sa germs kag viruses.
Ang mga mag-asawa naman suno sa mga eksperto nga nagapakighilawas sang isa ukon duha ka beses sa isa ka semana ang masami nga akig ukon masakiton.
Mabudlayan man ang mga ini nga atubangon ang stressful nga mga sitwasyon nga mag-abot sa ila nga kabuhi.
Pag-inom sang tubig kun nadulan, indi dapat bangud ini ang delikado kag posible nga madiretso sa baga suno sa eksperto
Posible para sa mga bata ang madunlan ilabi na kun dalagko nga mga pagkaon ang ginabutang sa ila nga baba ukon wala pa naanad nga magkaon sang mga solid food ukon matig-a nga pagkaon.
Charlie Gundran, emergency physician, ang karne kag mani ang masami nga nagapabara sa trachea.
Samtang ang sausage ukon hotdog amo ang mga common food nga makamamatay.
Samtang sa bata naman, ang mani amo ang delikado bangud indi pa ini nila ma-usap kag madunot sang maayo.
May yara sang duha ka sahi sang “choking”.
Partial choking ang nagakatabo kun makahambal kag makaginhawa pa ang nadunlan samtang complete choking naman ang kabaliskaran sini.
Para sa partial choking, pinaka-epektibo nga solusyon ang pagpa-ubo sang biktima.
Delikado pahayag ni Gundran ang pagpa-inom sang tubig sa tawo nga nadunlan bangud mahimo ini nga magdiretso sa baga.
Hampakon naman ang likod sang bata nga nadulan kun indi na ini makaginhawa.
Magluwas sa pagkaon, delikado para sa mga bata ang mga magagmay nga hampanganan.
Mannerism nagapakalma sa tawo suno sa eksperto
May yara sang nagakitkit sang ila nga kuko, may yara sang masami nga nagahikap sang ila nga dulunggan kag iban pa.
Suno kay Clarissa Mariano-Ligon, early childhood and family specialist, ang mannerism ang isa ka physical gesture, paghulag sang parte sang lawas ukon sa speech.
Naga-form ang mannerism subconsciously ukon indi mo matalupangdan nga ginahimo mo na gali — Indi lang kaisa kundi masami, adlaw-adlaw kag liwat-liwat.
“Self soothing” ukon nagahatag sang pagpakalma ang mannerism rason nga ginahimo ini sang tawo.
Kun ikaw nag nakulbaan ukon bored, dira kag nagaform man ang mannerism.
Apang kun ang mannerism mo ang nagahatag na sang malain nga epekto sa imo pang adlaw-adlaw, dapat nga magpaidalom ka na sa habit reversal training.
Panugyan sang eksperto, pilion ang mannerism nga makabulig sa imo kaugalingon.
Eksperto, ginkontra ang pahayag ni Pres.
ILOILO CITY- Ginkontra sang isa ka eksperto ang pahayag ni Presidente Rodrigo Duterte nga dapat basulon ang mga squatters ukon informal settlers sa nagakatabo nga deforestation nga kabangdanan sang lapnagon nga mga pagbaha ilabi na sa Luzon.
Jean Talens, training officer sang Climate Change Network for Community Based Initiative, iya ginpahayag nga ang matuod nga may sala amo ang dalagko nga mga logging projects kag mga bigtime nga mining concessions.
Suno sa iya, mangin ang mga basura nga makit-an nga nagatuga sang pagbara kag pagbaha ang iya man sang mga dalagko nga mga kompaniya kag ini nga mga produkto ang indi man gani masarangan nga baklon sang mga pigado kag mga squatters.
Gindugang man niya mangin ang mga magagmay nga quarrying activities, smalltime illegal logging kag gagmay nga mga minahan nga nagaserbi lang nga livelihood efforts sang mga pigado ang indi man mahimo nga mabasol.
Gin-ako man niya may mga individual practices nga dapat bag-uhon apang kinahanglan gid nga kontrolon ang dalagko nga operasyon sang mga higante nga mga kompaniya nga amo gid ang nagahalit sa palibot.
Matandaan nga ginpahayag ni Presidente Duterte nga ang mga squatters amo ang nagapang-utod sang mga kahoy ilabi na sa mga kaumahan agud magpatindog sang balay bangud indi sila makasarang magpatukod sang konkreto nga puluy-an.
Hagna nga nagaduso sang pagdugang sang bed capacity sa WVMC, nangin isa na ka laye
ILOILO CITY- Nangin isa na ka laye ang hagna nga nagaduso sang pagdugang sang bed capacity sang Western Visayas Medical Center sa Mandurriao, Iloilo City gikan sa 425 pasaka sa 700.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Lone District Representative Jamjam Baronda, iya ginpahayag nga isa ang RA 11496 sa pito ka mga local hospital bills nga nagatuyo nga mapasanyog ang delivery sang health care services sa tunga sang pandemya nga ginpirmahan ni Presidente Rodrigo Duterte.
Suno kay Baronda, ang nasambit nga laye ang maga-provide man sang pag-upgrade sang professional health care services kag pasilidad sang ospital kag i-authorize man ang pagdugang sang numero sang mga medical personnel.
Ginpahayag man ni Baronda nga gamay nalang ang kulang nga infrastructure project sa Western Visayas Medical Center agud nga matigayon ang pagdugang sang bed capacity sa diin 275 ang idugang.
Nagalaum naman ang kongresista nga mapadasig ang paghatag sang pondo agud nga matigayon na ang mga kinahanglan nga asikasuhon.
Narecord nga kaso sang COVID-19 sa North Fundidor, Molo, nagdangat na sa 57
ILOILO CITY- Naglab-ot na 57 ang narecord nga kaso sang COVID-19 sa North Fundidor, Molo, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Leo Aristoza, sa sini nga numero,10 ang active cases nga narecord subong nga Nobyembre.
Suno kay Aristoza, siyam sa ila ang naka-home quarantine samtang ang isa ang naka-admit sa quarantine facility.
Pahayag ni Aristoza, ang mga infected ang nagalakip sang pila ka mga frontliners.
Lunsay asymptomatic naman ang nasambit nga mga pasyente.
Trial sa COVID-19 molecular laboratory sa Pototan, Iloilo, target sa ulihi nga semana sang Nobyembre
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., iya ginpahayag nga gina- consolidate na lang ang mga dokumento kag findings sa assessment sang Department of Health kag Research Institute for Tropical Medicine.
Suno kay Defensor, ang mga medical technologists kag mga personnel sa nasambit nga laboratoryo ang ginapaidalom pa sa training kag natalana nga matapos subong nga semana.
Sa tion nga mahatag na ang accreditation, target sang probinsya nga magpatigayon sang trial sang laboratory operations sa ulihi nga semana sang Nobyembre.
Ginabanta naman nga 500 ka mga specimen ang sarang nga maakomodar sang laboratoryo kada adlaw.
Mayor Treñas, ginreklamo ang pinalagpat nga reporting sang DOH sa kaso sang COVID-19 sa syudad
ILOILO CITY- Nagpasaka sang complaint ang Iloilo City Government batok sa Department of Health Central Office kasunod sang pagpagwa sang listahan sang ahensya sang mga lugar sa Pilipinas nga may pinakamataas nga kaso sang COVID-19 sa diin ikalima ang syudad.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga sala ang reporting sang Department of Health nga 41 ang average daily COVID-19 cases nga narecord sa syudad.
Suno sa alkalde, nagalibog ang iya ulo kun sa diin nagakuha sang data ang ahensya bangud sa nagligad nga duha ka adlaw, anom tubtob siyam lang ang narecord nga kaso sa syudad sa sulod sang isa ka adlaw.
Pahayag sang opisyal, napalab-ot na niya ini nga concern kay Department of Health Region 6 director Dr.
Marlyn Convocar apang wala pa ini nakasabat sa pamangkot sang alkalde.
Ipadala naman sang alkalde sa Inter-Agency Task Force ang nasambit nga complaint letter.
Mga bisyo, stress kag pagbulad sa initan, pila ka mga kabangdanan sa pag-angkon sang psoriasis
Isa ka sahi sang skin inflammation ang psoriasis sa diin ang lawas sang tawo ang makaangkon sang abnormalidad sa paghimo sang skin cells.
Elvin Tiangha nga ang proseso sang pagbaylo sang panit sang isa ka tawo ang nagalab-ot sa 28 tubtob 30 ka adlaw apang sa kondisyon sang Psoriasis, nagalab-ot lamang sang tatlo tubtob apat ka adlaw ang bilog nga proseso sa pagbaylo sang panit sang tawo.
Ini ang rason sa pag-angkon sang pagpalangdamol kag paghimbis sang panit.
Tiangha indi pa gid mapat-od ang gintunaan sang psoriasis apang base sa mga mangin-alamon sa medisina, mahimo makuha ang psoriasis sa pamilya, mahina nga immune system kag sa palibot.
Kun eczema naman ang pagahambalan, ini ang ginakabig long-term condition nga nagaapekto sa panit.
Ini ang mapula kag sa palibot sini ang maitom.
Nagatuhaw ang eczema sa sulod sang siko, likod sang kamot kag likod man sang tuhod kag kadam-an nga nagakaangkon sini amo ang mga bata.
Samtang ang psoriasis naman ang makit-an sa guwa sang siko ukon kabaliskaran sang eczema kag ang masami ginatubo-an amo ang mga teenagers ukon adults.
Agud nga malikawan ang pag-angkon sang psoriasis pahayag sang eksperto, likawan ang pagbulad sa initan, pag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon, pagpanigarilyo, likawan man ang stress kag ipabilin ang healthy lifestyle.
Sa public address sang presidente, iya ginpahayag nga napresentar na niya ini sa ila pagsugilanon ni Chinese Ambassador to the Philippines Huang Xilian.
Suno sa Presidente, indi niya luyag nga mag-transact sa mga Chinese businessmen bangud may yara sang posibilidad nga mag-atras ang mga ini.
Pahayag niya, mas mapahamtang siya sa government to government nga transaksyon bangud mas malikawan nga may matabo nga korapsyon sa proseso sang pagbakal sang bakuna.
VP Robredo, magadonar sang P5M nga balor sang test kits para sa Iloilo City
ILOILO CITY- Magadonar si Vice President Leni Robredo sang test kits nga nagabalor sang masobra P5M para sa Syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga donasyon ang ginabug-usan sang 3,000 test kits.
Suno kay Mayor Treñas, dako nga bulig ini sa padayon nga pagpatigayon sang syudad sang mass testing bilang kabahin sang pagbato sa COVID-19.
Ginpabugal naman sang alkalde ang padayon nga testing sa pumuluyo sang syudad agud mahapos ang detection kag isolation sang mga infected sang virus.
Defensor, nagahingyo sa mga shipping lines nga indi magpinagusto baligya sang tickets sa LSIs
sa mga shipping lines nga indi pagpasobrahan sa 150 nga quota ang numero sang mga Locally Stranded Individuals nga ginapapauli sa Iloilo kada semana.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Governor Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga kuntani indi magpinagusto ang mga shipping lines sa pagbaligya sang tickets sang mga pasahero agud masunod ang quota.
Suno kay Defensor, katuyuan sini nga indi magginutok ang mga LSIs sa mga quarantine facilities sa kabanwahanan sa Iloilo kg indi man matam-an ang mga frontliners.
Gin-athag naman sang gobernador nga wala sang moratorium ang Iloilo angot sa pagpapauli sa mga LSIS.
Gin-ako sang gobernador nga mangin siya ang natingala man bangud may mga pasahero nga nagareklamo nga indi sila pagpasakyon sa mga barko bangud may moratorium nga ginapatuman ang probinsya.
May kaangtanan naman sa stranded nga mga taga-Iloilo sa pier sa Manila, ginpahayag sang natungdan nga makapakig-angot ini sa shipping line agud mapapauli na ang mga ini.
Bone ukon tul-an, may yara sang madamo nga function – Medical expert
ILOILO CITY – Madamo ang ginatungdan nga function sang bone ukon tul-an sa lawas.
Sa programa Doktor Bombo, ginpaathag sang Medical expert nga si Dr.
Elvin Tiangha kun daw ano ka importante ang tul-an.
Tiangha, ang bone ukon tul-an ang isa ka rigid organ nga kabahin sang human skeletal system kag vertebrate skeleton sang sapat kag ini ang ginabug-usan sang cells nga yara sa hard intercellular material kun sa diin ang duha ka principal components sini amo ang collagen kag calcium phosphate.
Lakip sa function sang tul-an suno kay Dr.
Tiangha amo ang paghatag sang framework kag support sa lawas, force transmission para sa body movement, paghatag sang proteksyon sa internal organs, blood cell generation and maintenance ukon hematopoiesis kag nagaserbe man nga storage sang minerals.
Apisar nga mabaskog ang tul-an, mahimo ini nga maggabok bangud sa pila ka mga rason kag lakip diri amo ang kakulang sang minerals, katigulangon, unhealthy lifestyle kag medical disorder.
Agud nga makalikaw ukon mapahagan-hagan ang paggabok sang tul-an ukon osteoporosis, nagakadapat nga may yara sang healthy kag varied diet kasubong sang preska nga prutas, utan kag whole grains, pagkaon sang calcium-rich foods, vitamin D intake, paglikaw sa pagpanigarilyo, pag-limit sang alcohol consumption kag caffeine kag ang pagpatigayon sang weight-bearing kag strength-training activities.
Nahibalu-an nga santo sa Proclamation No.
658 nga ginpirmahan ni anay Presidente Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo sang 2004, gindeklarar ang ika-tatlo nga semana sang Oktubre bilang “Bone & Joint (Musculo-Skeletal) Disorders Awareness Week”.
Pagkaon sang oily fish kasubong sang salmon kag mackerel, makapahagan-hagan sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang Rheumatoid Arthritis
UNITED KINGDOM – Ang pagkaon sang oily fish ang natukiban nga makapahagan-hagan sa risgo sa pag-angkon sang Rheumatoid Arthritis.
Santo sa pagtuon sang mga eksperto, ang pagkaon sang bisan tunga lang sang isa ka bilog nga oily fish kaangay sang salmon ukon mackerel sa isa ka semana ang makabuhin sang halos ka tunga sang risgo sa pag-angkon sang nasambit nga balati-an.
Ang mga palakaon sang isda ang may 1/3 nga mas manubo nga risgo sa pag-angkon sang diabetes samtang ang nagakaon naman sang oily fish kaangay sang mackerel ang may ka tunga gid nga mas manubo ang risgo sa pag-angkon sang Arthritis.
Alan Silman, medical director sang Arthritis Research sa United Kingdom, ang ginatawag nga fishy diet ukon masami nga pagkaon sang isda ang may maayo nga epekto sa ikaayong lawas bangud ang isda ang manggaranon sa omega 3 nga nagahatag sang proteksyon sa heart kag utok.
Ang isda suno kay Silman ang isa man ka anti-inflammatory agent rason nga maayo ini nga pambato sa paglikaw sa Arthritis.
Pagkitkit sang kuko isa sa mga dapat likawan agud nga indi matubuan sang warts
May mga warts ka man bala sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang imo lawas?
Ang warts ang nagatubo bangud sa virus nga nagatapik sa imo nga panit kag nagaresulta sa infection.
Suzanne Olbricht, isa ka dermatologist, masami ang warts sa mga broken skin ukon mga pilas sa diin madasig makasulod ang virus.
Nakahibalo ka bala nga mahimo maglapta ang warts sa imo nga lawas?
Gani importante gid ang paghugas sang kamot kag indi pagsagi hikap ang imo nga warts.
Ang warts ang indi malikawan apang may mga pamaagi agud nga mapanubo ang risgo sa pag-angkon sini.
Isa sa pinaka importante nag himuon amo nga masami maghugas sang kamot, likawi nga mapilas kag kun gina ingkit mo ang imo kuko, untati na ina bangud ang pag-ingkit sang kuko ang nagahatag sang pamaagi agud nga makasulod ang virus sa imo lawas.
Kun luyag mo nga ipakakas ang warts, mas maayo nga magdangop sa dermatologist bangud may yara sila sang nagkalain lain nga pagbulong sa warts.
Masami nga pagkaon sang fast food, makapataas sang infertility rate sang babayi – Study
AUSTRALIA – Atensyon sa mga babayi nga mahilig magkaon sang fast food!
Nagaguwa sa pagtuon nga ang mga babayi nga masami nagakaon sang fast food ang mabudlayan nga makabusong sa sulod sang isa ka tuig.
Claire Roberts, researcher sa University of Adelaide sa Australia, ang mga babayi nga indi mahilig magkaon sang prutas ang may risgo nga 8-12 percent nga mangin baog ukon indi makabusong.
Nagataas pa gid ang infertility sa 8-16 percent kun ang babayi ang masami nga nagakaon sang burgers, pizza, fries kag fried chicken bangud nga ang pagkaon sang unhealthy food ang nagapataas sang infertility.
Nga-a importante nga tipigan ang ngipon?
Ano ang mga nanari-sari nga dental cosmetics nga mahimo ma-avail?
ILOILO CITY – Daku ang mabulig sang cosmetic dentistry sa pag-angkon sang confidence sang isa ka tawo.
Mine Quilino, anay Presidente sang Philippine Dental Association – Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga ang cosmetic dentistry amo ang dental work nga nagapasangkad sang appearance sang ngipon, gums kag bite ilabi na sa patag sang dental aesthetics kasubong sang color, position, shape, size, alignment kag overall smile appearance.
Quilino, ang teeth services nga ginatanyag sang cosmetic dentist ang nakadepende sa ginakinahanglan sang pasyente kasubong sang teeth whitening, veneer kag braces.
Quilino nga madamo sang factors kun nga-a may discoloration sa ngipon kag ini ang ginalakipan sang ginakaon ukon gina-inom, tobacco use kag ginabatyag nga balatian.
Agud nga mapaputi ang ngipon, ang mga dentist ang nagagamit sang tooth bleaches kasubong sang hydrogen peroxide ukon carbamide peroxide kag wala sang dapat kahangaw-an bangud nga ini ang safe sa ikaayong lawas.
Ang veneer naman amo ang thin moulding, custom-made porcelain nga gina-angot sa front surface sang ngipon kag makabig nga quick and effective solution sa stained, chipped, misshapen ukon crooked teeth kag mahimo man nga makatabon sang gaps sa mga ngipon.
Ang kalawigon sini suno sa natungdan ang nakadepende sa paghalong.
Kun dental braces naman, ini ang ginagamit sa pagtadlong sang ngipon agud malikawan ang gaps kag mangin husto ang bite.
Pagkatapos makuha ang braces, ginapanugyan naman ang retainers agud mapabilin nga teeth structure depende sa panugyan sang dentist.
E-cigarette flavors, makapataas sang toxicity sa lawas – Study
USA – Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang flavorings nga ginagamit sa e-cigarette ang nagapataas sang toxicity?
Ang toxins ang mahimo nga makatuga sang irritation kag makasunog sang cells lining sa airways kag magaresulta sa problema sa pagginhawa.
Natukiban nga ang unflavored e-cigarette vapor ang makahalalit na sa cells apang mas ginapataas pa gid ang toxicity sini kun maggamit sang flavorings kaangay sang strawberry, coffee kag menthol flavors.
Paglantaw sa videos kag laragway sang cute animals, makabuhin sa stress kag anxiety — pagtuon
Indi ka na bala makatulog bangud sang anxiety kag stress dala sang COVID-19 pandemic?
Mahimo isa ka man sa nagapulaw sa paglantaw sang mga videos online agud malingaw mo ang imo kaugalingon.
Kun kaangay sini ang imo aktibidad, pilia ang videos nga may mga cute nga sapat bangud may mga pagtuon nga nagapamatuod nga makapaayo ini sa imo ikaayong lawas.
Suno sa pagtuon sa University of Leeds sa United Kingdom, in partnership sa Western Australia Tourism, ang paglantaw sang mga laragway kag video sang cute nga mga sapat sa sulod sang 30 minutos ang makaapekto sa blood pressure, heart rate kag anxiety sang isa ka tawo.
Andrea Utley, associate professor sa University of Leeds, may mga baby animals siya nga ginpalantaw sa 19 niya ka subject nga ginalakipan sang 15 ka estudyante kag apat ka staff nga lunsay stressed bangud sang ulubrahon sa eskwelahan.
Matapos ang 30 minutos, lunsay man nagnubo ang blood pressure, heart rate kag anxiety sang mga participants.
Nangin ‘within ideal blood pressure’ ang dugo sang mga pumalasakop, samtang nagnubo naman sa 35% ang anxiety nila sang gintakos gamit ang State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, isa ka self-assessment method nga ginagamit sa clinical settings sa pag-diagnose sang anxiety.
Ikaw, ka-Bombo, indi gid magpatama sa imo ginabatyag nga kasubo: gamita man sang husto ang imo tion online agud mabuhinan ang imo nga anxiety.
Paghibalo sang madamo nga lenggwahe, may maayo nga benepisyo ilabi na sa mga stroke survivor – Study
INDIA – Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang tawo nga makahambal sang indi magnubo sa duha ka lenggwahe ang may dako nga posibilidad nga makabalik sa normal nga cognitive function pagkatapos ma stroke?
Suvarna Alladi, neurology professor sa Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences sa Hyderabad, India, ang paghibalo sang madamo nga lenggwahe ang naga-challenge sa utok kag ini ang naga-promote sa neuroplasticity ukon “cognitive reserve,”.
Ang cognitive reserve amo ang nagabulig sa utok nga makapreparar sa bag-o nga mga pagtilaw kaangay sang pag-angkon sang balati-an.
Gina-enganyo naman ang paghibalo sang second language agud maka-communicate sa mas madamo nga tawo kun sa diin bonus na lang diri ang neurological nga benipisyo sini.
Breastfeeding, makapanubo sang risgo sang obesity sa pagdaku sang lapsag
GERMANY – Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang breastfeeding ang makapugong sang obesity ukon tuman nga katambukon sa mga bata?
Koletzko, presidente sang European Society of Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition kag professor sa pediatrics sa Ludwig Maximilians University sa Munich sa Germany, ang mga baby nga gina-breastfeed ang may gamay nga risgo nga mangin obese sa ila pagdaku.
Ginpahayag ni Koletzko nga ang breastfeeding ang may long term effect kun sa diin nagapahagan-hagan man ini sa protein supply intake sang lapsag.
Kun mahimu suno kay Koletzko, likawan ang pagpasuso sa lapsag sang gatas halin sa baka bangud nga ini ang naga-contain sang protein nga mas mataas sang tatlo ka pilo kun ipaanggid sa human milk.
Ang protein suno sa natungdan ang isa man sa mga rason sang obesity.
Nagkalain-lain nga rason kun ngaa nagahina ang palamatin-an sang tawo, aton hibaluon!
Nagahina na bala ang imo nga palamatin-an?
Joy Celyn Ignacio, ear, nose and throat specialist, isa sa nagapanguna nga kabangdanan sang paghina sang palamatin-an amo ang edad nga naga-umpisa sa edad nga 50.
Ini bangud nga kun nagatigulang ang isa ka tawo, madamo na ang exposure sini sa mga medications nga nagapaguba sang palamatin-an, exposure sa noise ukon gahod kag iban pa nga mga balatian kaangay sang chronic kidney disease.
May mga bulong man nga mahimo makapahina sang imo palamatin-an.
Kaangay na lang sang pila ka mga antibiotic kag mga bulong para sa tuberculosis ukon cancer.
Ini ang rason kun ngaa ginapaidalom pa sa hearing test ang pila ka mga pasyente antes pa-imnon sang pila ka mga sahi sang bulong.
Mahimo man nga maghina ang palamatin-an sang tawo kun may balatian.
Isa na diri kun may yara ikaw sang sip-on.
Gani panugyan sang specialista, kun may yara ikaw sang sip-on kag nagasakit ang imo nga dulunggan, magpakonsulta gid sa doctor bangud may posibilidad nga infection na ina.
Maternal health, daku nga factor sa pag-angkon sang lapsag sang Cerebral Palsy – Health expert
ILOILO CITY – Daku nga factor ang maternal health ukon ang ikaayong lawas sang iloy sa pag-angkon sang Cerebral Palsy sang lapsag.
Ini ang ginpahayag sa Bombo Radyo ni Dr.
Elvin Tiangha may kaangtanan sa pagsaulog sang Cerebral Palsy Awareness and Protection Week umpisa Setyembre 16-24 sa tagsa ka tuig.
Tiangha, ang Cerebral Palsy ang isa ka group of disorders nga naga-apekto sa ikasarang sa paghulag, pagbalanse kag posture kag ini ang most common motor disability sa tion sang childhood.
Tiangha nga ang tinaga nga Cerebral ang nagakahulugan sang brain ukon utok samtang ang tinaga nga Palsy naman ang nagakahulugan sang muscle weakness ukon problems.
Ang nasambit nga group of disorders ang tuga sang damage ukon abnormal development sang utok nga amo ang naga-kontrol sang body movement kag ini ang mahimo nga matabo antes, samtang kag pagkatapos ibun-ag ang lapsag tubtub nga mag-edad sang pila ka tuig.
Kalabanan sa mga bata nga may yara sang nasambit nga kondisyon ang ginbun-ag nga may deperensya ukon Congenital Cerebral Palsy.
Lakip sa mga factor nga mahimo makatuga sang Cerebral Palsy sa mga lapsag nga yara pa lang sa tagu-angkon sang ila iloy amo ang damage sa white matter sang utok, abnormal brain development, pagdugo sang utok bangud sa stroke kag kakulang sang oxygen sa utok.
Para naman sa mga lapsag nga naga-edad sang 28 days ukon masobra pa nga naka-angkon sang Acquired Cerebral Palsy, lakip sa mga posible matabo amo ang brain damage ilabi na sa una nga mga binulan, infections kasubong sang meningitis ukon encephalitis, problema sa blood flow sa utok tuga sang stroke, blood clotting problems, abnormal blood vessels, heart defect, sickle cell disease kag head injury gikan sa aksidente ukon child abuse.
Agud nga malikawan ang risgo sa pag-angkon sang nasambit nga kondisyon, mas importante suno sa natungdan nga healthy ang iloy samtang nagabusong.
Hobby nga drumming, may maayo nga epekto sa utok – Study
GERMANY – Ang hobby nga drumming ukon ang pagkahilig sa pagtukar sang drum ang may yara sang maayo nga epekto sa utok ilabi na kun coordination ang pagahambalan.
Natukiban sang mga eksperto sa Bergmannsheil University Clinic kag Biopsychology research unit sa Ruhr-University sa Bochum, Germany nga ang mga drummer ang makasarang sa pagperform sang complex fine motor tasks kun ipaanggid sa mga non-drummer.
Sa pagpaathag ni Sarah Friedrich, isa sa mga author sang pagtuon nga nabalhag sa journal nga Brain and Behavior, ang mga non-drummer ang indi maka-perform sang nanari-sari nga rhythmical tasks sang dungan.
Suno kay Friedrich, nagaguwa nga ang utok ang madasig nga naga-adapt samtang nagadugay ang pag-practice sa pagtukar sang bisan ano nga sahi sang musical instrument.
Ang effecient nga anterior corpus callosum sa utok suno kay Friedrich ang nagakahulugan sang maayo nga performance ilabi na sa mga drummer.
Sa pihak sini, sa tion sang motor tasks, ang utok sang mga drummer ang less active kag ini ang ginatawag nga sparse sampling.
Mga tawo nga brokenhearted, nagaka-atake man sa tagipusuon apang ini ang tumalagsahon suno sa cardiologist
Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang tawo nga brokenhearted ang may tyansa nga makaangkon sang sakit sa tagipusuon?
Ginpaathag sang cardiologist nga si Jeffrey de Jesus nga may mga tawo nga brokenhearted ang nagaka-atake man sa tagipusuon apang ini ang tumalagsahon lang.
Ang kondisyon nga ini ang ginatawag nga “broken heart syndrome” ukon takotsubo cardiomyopathy.
Suno kay de Jesus, kun na stress ang isa ka tawo, nagadamo ang produksyon sang adrenaline sa iya nga lawas nga nagaapekto sa tagipusuon.
Ang adrenaline ang isa ka hormone nga ginapaguwa bilang tugon sa stress.
Kadam-an sa mga nagakabatyag sang broken heart syndrome amo ang mga babaye nga yara na sa edad 50 anyos pataas.
Ang kinalain sang broken heart syndrome sa ordinaryo nga heart attack amo nga wala ini nagatuga sang mga pagbara sa mga artery.
Dugang pa sang eksperto, tumalagsahon man ang nagakapatay bangud sa broken heart syndrome.
Masami nga pagka-positibo sang tawo, indi man maayo suno sa eksperto; Ini ang ginatawag “Toxic Positivity”
Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang masami nga pagka-positibo sang tawo ang indi man maayo?
Apisar nga importante nga may yara ikaw sang positibo nga panan-awan sa kabuhi, wala man sang sala kun pahanugutan mo ang kaugalingon nga makabatyag man sang negatibo nga emosyon — kaangay na lang sang kasubo kag kakulba.
Suno kay Jerome Go, isa ka psychiatrist, “Toxic positivity” ang tawag sa konsepto kun sa diin masami positibo nga emosyon na lamang ang nagakabatyagan sang isa ka tawo kag nagalab-ot na sa punto nga ginapabay-an na ang mga negatibo nga emosyon nga dapat man mabatyagan kuntani.
Lakip sa mga positibo nga pamatasan sang tawo nga ginpahayag ni Go amo ang pagka-masinadyahon kag may manami nga panan-awan sa kabuhi.
Ang mga negatibo naman nga emosyon amo ang kasubo, kakulba, kag pagkabalaka sa ano ang mahimo matabo sa mga masunod nga inadlaw.
Gin-halimbawa man ni Go ang isa ka tawo nga may toxic positivity amo ang masami nga nagahambal nga “Look at the positive side” ukon “okay lang ina” sa isa man ka tawo nga nangin biktima sang mga pagpanghangkat sa kabuhi.
Panugyan sang eksperto, kinahanglan man nga i-acknowledge nga may yara sang indi maayo nga natabo sa kabuhi mo ukon kabuhi sang imo ka-kilala.
Pagkatapos sina, tinguha-i nga i-motivate ang imo ka kilala agud nga mangin positibo ang indi maayo nga inagyan niya sa kabuhi.
Decision-making sang Iloilo City Gov’t,apektado bangud sa tuman ka delay nga RT-PCR test results
ILOILO CITY- Gin-ako ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga apektado ang decision- making sang syudad angot sa COVID-19 bangud sa tuman ka delay nga pagpagwa sang resulta sang Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga pan-us na ang ginapagwa nga data sang Department of Health bangud nagalab-ot sa 10 tubtob 12 ka adlaw pa gina-release ang resulta sang RT-PCR test.
Suno kay Treñas, bangud sini, delayed man ang pagpagwa sang desisyon sang syudad.
Kaangot sini, ginpahayag man sang alkalde nga mangin siya ang wala na nakahibalo kun ano gid ang matuod nga sitwasyon sang COVID-19 cases sa syudad.
Obrero, gin-athag nga wala ginpaidalom sa surgical lockdown ang ila lugar
ILOILO CITY- Gin-athag sang barangay council sang Bo.
Obrero, Lapuz, Iloilo City nga wala ginpaidalom sa surgical lockdown ang ila lugar.
Ini kasunod sang ginpagwa nga listahan sang City Health Office nga nalakip ini sa 24 ka barangay nga ginpaidalom sa surgical lockdown umpisa sang Setyembre 14 bangud sa mataas nga kaso sang COVID-19 sa diin pito ang narecord sa ila barangay.
Ricardo Niño, iya gin-athag nga sa pito ka kaso sang COVID-19 sa barangay, 3 lamang ang active cases.
Suno kay Niño, nakarecover na ang apat samtang nagapabilin naman sa ospital ang tatlo ka mga pasyente.
Ginpahayag sang natungdan nga naka-quarantine naman ang pamilya sang mga pasyente kag napaidalom na sa swab test.
Masami nga pagkaon sang fermented food, makapadula sang social anxiety – Psychiatry Research
USA – Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang masami nga pagkaon sang fermented foods ang makapadula sang Social Anxiety?
Suno pagtu-on sang Psychiatry Research, ang pagkaon sang fermented foods kasubong sang pickles kag yogurt ang makapadula sang Social Anxiety ukon fear of interaction sa iban nga tawo nga kun kaisa nagaresulta sa self-conciousness kag avoidance.
Sa pagpaathag ni Professor Matthew Hilimire sang Department of Psychology sa William and Mary sa Estados Unidos, mahimo nga ang probiotics ukon microorganisms sa fermented foods ang mahimo nga maka-impluwensya sa pang ino-ino sang tawo.
Nagaguwa sa pagtu-on nga ang young adults nga nagakaon saang madamo nga fermented foods ang may manubo nga social axiety symptoms kag masami man nga naga-excercise.
Ang mga syntomas sang anxiety amo ang pagkuba-kuba sang tagipusu-on, pagpalamalhas, pagkurog, pagpalamula, muscle tension kag pagsakit sang tiyan nga mahimo magresulta sa Diarreha.
Ang probiotics ukon good bacteria sa digestive tracs amo ang nagapadala sang mensahe sa utok kun ano ang dapat nga mabatyagan.
Pagtutok sang Bombo Radyo sa isyu sang mahigko nga tubig sa Decahomes sa Pavia, ginpasalamatan sang pumuluyo
ILOILO CITY- Nagpalab-ot sang pagpasalamat sa Bombo Radyo ang homeowners association sang Decahomes Subdivision, Pavia, Iloilo bangud sa nahimo nga mihura matapos gindala sa kahanginan ang ila reklamo batok sa mahigko nga tubig nga gina-supply sang BP Waterworks, Inc.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Ana Dajay, presidente sang homeowners association, iya ginpahayag nga dako nga bulig nga gintutukan sang Bombo Radyo ang isyu sa ila lugar nga nagresulta man sa paghatag sang igtalupangod sang Local Government Unit sang Pavia sa sentimento sang pumuluyo.
Suno kay Dajay, nakapatigayon na sang legislative meeting ang Sangguniang Bayan sang Pavia sa diin nadihon ang mga rekomendasyon para mas mapaayo pa ang serbisyo sang BP Waterworks.
Matandaan nga nag-angkon sang balatian kaangay sang arikis kag amoeba ang mga pumuluyo sang nasambit nga subdivision bangud sa mahigko nga tubig nga nagatubod sa ila gripo.
Ngaa ang pag-angkon sang hinuptanan nga ido ang maayo sa imo ikaayong lawas?
Daw ano bala kasadya nga apisar wala ikaw sang dala nga pasalubong sa imo pagpauli apang ang imo presensya ang bastante na sa imo hinuptanan nga ido?
Sa imo pagbukas pa lang sang pwertahan, makita mo na ang nagatumbo-tumbo, malipayon, excited kag naga iwol-iwol nga ikog sang imo nga ido.
Di bala ang imo hinuptanan nga ido ang nagahatag sang pagpalangga kag companionship sa imo kabuhi?
Apang maka-protekta ayhan ang imo furry friend sa imo batuk sa heart disease kag makapalawig sang imo kabuhi?
Santu sa pagtuon sang American Heart Association, ang mga tawo nga may hinuptanan nga ido ang makapanubo sang risgo nga makaangkon sang balatian sa tagipusuon kag makapalawig pa sang imo nga kabuhi.
Thomas Lee, isa ka cardiologist kag professor sang medicine sa Harvard Medical School, nagapa-aktibo sa isa ka tawo ang pag-angkon sang ido.
Ginarekomenda sang eksperto nga kun mahimo, mag lakat-lakat kaupod ang imo ido bangud isa pa ini ka pamaagi nga ikaw ang maka-exercise.
Ang mga ido ang nagapabuhin man sang imo nga stress kag pagkasubo.
Sila ang mahimo mo nga mangin kaupod ilabi na kun ikaw na lang isa ang nagapangabuhi.
Apang pahanumdom man sa mga tag-iya sang ido, kadungan sang pagsagod sa isa ka sapat, dapat man nga mangin responsable ikaw sa pagtatap sang imo hinuptanan.
Epilepsy ukon kuyap, makabig nga neurological disorder – Medical expert
ILOILO CITY – Makabig nga neurological disorder ang pag-angkon sang epilepsy ukon kuyap.
Sa pagpaathag sang Medical expert nga si Dr.
Elvin Tiangha, madamo sang risk factors nga mahimo makatuga sang kuyapkun sa diin lakip diri amo ang low oxygen kadungan sang pagkabun-ag, head injuries, brain tumors, genetic conditions, infections, stroke kag abnormal levels sang substances kasubong sang sodium ukon blood sugar.
Tiangha, wala sang kaayuhan ang kuyap apang paagi sa medical examination kag pagtumar sang prescribed medicines, mahimo nga mapahagan-hagan ang epekto sini.
Tiangha nga ang kuyap ang mahimo nga magtuhaw sa bisan ano nga edad sa babayi man ukon sa lalaki, kun sa diin ang brain activity ang nangin abnormal na kag nagatuga sang seizures ukon periods of unusual behavior, sensations kag pagkalipong kun kaisa.
May kaangtanan sa pagsaulog sang National Epilepsy Awareness Week sa una nga semana sang Setyembre, ginpahanumdom sang natungdan nga importante gid ang pagpangayo sang bulig sa medical experts agud nga indi na maglala ang ginabatyag nga seizures.
Pag-inom sang madamo nga tubig sa sulod sang isa ka adlaw, ginapanugyan para sa mga naga-diet
USA – Ang pag-inom sang madamo nga tubig sa sulod sang isa ka adlaw ang masami nga ginapanugyan agud nga makalikaw sa dehydration.
Magluwas diri, ini ang makapaayo man sa tanan nga nagapaidalom sa diet.
Halos 50% suno kay Chang ang kahigayunan nga makalikaw sa obesity ukon tuman nga katambukon.
Suno naman kay Connie Diekman, director of university nutrition sa Washington University sa Estados Unidos, ang paglikaw sa dehydration ang indi lamang paagi sa pag-inom sang tubig kundi paagi man sa pagkaon sang prutas kag laswa.
Gin-athag man ni Diekman nga mas ginakinahanglan sang mga matambok nga tawo nga magkaon sang prutas kag laswa.
Ginapanugyan naman sang mga eksperto nga 3.6 liters sang tubig ang dapat nga mainom sang mga lalaki sa sulod sang isa ka adlaw samtang 2.7 liters naman para sa mga babayi.
Toxic nga relasyon, indi maayo sa imo physical kag mental health
Malipayon ka pa bala sa inyo relasyon sang imo nobyo ukon nobya?
Mas madamo pa bala ang away niyo kun ipaanggid sa pag-mayohay ninyo nga duha?
Mahimo nga yara ikaw sa isa ka toxic nga relasyon.
Indi mo lang ma mulalungan apang nagaka-apektuhan na ang inyo ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay Linda Weinberger, professor sa clinical psychiatry and behavioral sciences sa Keck School of Medicine sang University of Southern California, ang healthy relationship ang nagahatag sa imo sang kalipay kag naga pa energize pa sa imo samtang ang toxic relationship naman ang nagahatag sa imo sang depression kag kalain sang buot.
Kun yara ikaw sa toxic nga relasyon, dako ang imo risgo nga makaangkon sang heart problems kaangay sang fatal heart attack.
Magluwas sini, nagataas man ang imo blood sugar levels kag high blood pressure, nagapahina sang immune system kag madasig makabatyag sang kakapoy.
Kun wala kana gina-respeto sang imo nga partner, kun lunsay kabutigan na lang ang iya ginahimo, kun kulang na siya sa pagpaninguha, kulang sang pagsalig, kulang sa komunikasyon, ginasakit kana pisikal kag emosyonal, panugyan ni Weinberger, tion na agud nga magbuya sa inyo nga relasyon.
Deserve mo ang isa ka healthy relationship sa diin duha kamo ang naga-respetuhanay kag gina-tratar ikaw nga may pagpalangga.
Paano malikawan ang depression sa adlaw sang paskwa?
Apisar sa mga malain nga nagkalatabo subong nga 2020, nagalaom kita sa gihapon nga mangin maayo, manami kag matawhay ang pagsaulog ta sang paskwa.
Para sa iban, ang paskwa ang tion sa pagselebrar, pag inom-inom, paghatag sang oras sa imo mga pinalangga nga tawo kag syempre tion agud nga mag-enjoy.
Apang sa mga tawo nga nagasuprer sang mental health condition, ang yuletide season ang mahimo nga mangin mabudlay para sa ila.
Kun adlaw sang paskwa, kadam-an sa aton ang nagapangalipay.
Apang sa mga tawo nga may depression, ang malipayon nga palibot nga makit-an sini ang makapalala pa sang ila nabatyagan.
Panugyan ni Dr Neil Jeyasingam, isa ka psychiatrist sa United Kingdom, kun ikaw ang may depression, importante nga mangin maayo ikaw sa imo kaugalingon ilabi na kun adlaw sang paskwa kag indi mo pagpahanugutan nga kan-on ikaw sang kasubo bangud sa imo kondisyon.
Yari ang pila sa mga pamaagi agud nga malikawan ang kasubo sa adlaw sang paskwa.
*Mag istorya ikaw sa imo pamilya ukon sa imo abyan kun ano ang imo nabatyagan.
*Likawi ang alcohol bangud ini ang pa ang nagapalala sang imo ginabatyag.
*Mangin positibo — isulat ang tatlo ka mga positibo nga butang sa imo kabuhi kada gab-i antes ikaw magtulog kag i-reflect ini kun ikaw ang magbugtaw sa aga kag;
*Indi pag i-isolate ang imo kaugalingon.
Kun may pagtililipon sa inyo pamilya sa adlaw sang paskwa, magguwa sa imo kwarto kag mag-upod sa pagselebrar.
Punggod, indi dapat pag-tudson suno sa dermatologist
Ang punggod ang masabad sa aton nga nawong.
Apang may kilala ka bala nga “hobby” na ang pagtudos sang iya nga punggod?
O di gani basi ikaw kalingawan mo man nga tudson ang imo punggod?
Bangud wala dapat ginatudos ang punggod bangud mahimo ini nga madagdag sa impeksyon kag iban pa nga balatian sa panit.
Suno kay Stephanie Chua, isa ka dermatologist, kun may yara ikaw sang dako nga punggod, indi ini dapat pagtandugon ukon tudson bangud mahimo nga indi mapaguwa sang maayo ang nana nga mangin tunaan pa sang impeksyon sa panit.
Kun may punggod pahayag sang eksperto, mas maayo nga idangop ini sa dermatologist agud maresetahan sang bulong.
May yara sang insakto nga technique ukon pamaagi sa pagtudos sang punggod kag ginapili lamang sang mga dermatologist ang punggod nga ila tudson.
Ginhalimbawa ni Chua ang isa ka pasyente nga nagka-uyapos kag nagbanog ang nawong matapos nga nagsala ini sa pagtudos sang iya nga punggod.
Mahimo man nga magtuga sang pagkabulag kun maglab-ot sa may bahin sang mata ang impeksyon bangud sa sala nga pagtudos.
Kuto lang ang ginatudos kag indi ang imo nga punggod.
Pag-angkon sang Presbyopia, normal lamang sa mga naga-edad sang 40 anyos pataas – Medical Expert
ILOILO CITY – Normal lamang ang pag-angkon sang Presbyopia ukon farsightedness ilabi na kun naga-edad sang 40 anyos pataas.
Irene Peliño, Board of Examiner in Optometry sang Professional Regulation Commission kag miyembro sang Integrated Philippine Association of Optometrists, Inc., ang Presbyopia ang tuga sang pagkadula sang elasticity sang lens sa mata rason nga ang makita lamang amo ang mga butang nga yara sa malayo.
Peliño, may yara sang prescribed lens nga ginahatag sa mga pasyente nga may Presbyopia kag ang nagakaigo nga eye grade ang mahibalu-an lamang paagi sa chek-up.
Peliño nga ang prescribed lens ang nagapatin-aw sang panan-awan sang mga may Presbyopia kag wala sini ginapadako ang mga letra ukon butang nga dapat makita sang mata.
Masami nga sintomas sang Presbyopia amo ang pagsakit sang ulo tuga sang buron nga panan-awan kag agud nga makita, ginapalayo sang pasyente ang ginabasa agud nga mangin maathag ang mga letra.
Ang kabaliskaran naman sang Presbyopia amo ang Myopia ukon nearsightedness kun sa diin ang mga malapit lang nga butang ang makita.
Samtang, naga-umpisa na ang pagbaton sang indigent patients nga interesado nga mangin benepisyaryo sang proyekto nga “Panan-awan mo, Amligan ko” sang Integrated Philippine Association of Optometrists, Inc.
Peliño, ang ila grupo ang masami nga nagapakigbahin sa Bombo Medico sang Bombo Radyo Philippines apang bangud sa pandemya, wala ini nadayon subong nga tuig.
May kaangtanan diri, ang mga qualified benificiaries ang mahimo nga makapakig-angot sa Bombo Radyo Iloilo para sa screening.
Lakip sa qualifications amo nga dapat naga-edad sang 40 anyos pataas, may deperensya sa mata kag dapat nga indigent.
Ang mga kwalipikado nga benipisyaryo ang makabaton sang libre nga check-up kag eyeglasses.
Honey, makabulong sa ubo – Health experts
ENGLAND – Ang honey nga makita sa balayan sang buyog ang ginapanugyan nga bulong sa ubo.
Suno sa pagtuon nga ginpatigayon sang National Institute for Health and Care Excellence kag sang Public Health England nga ang honey ang may yara sang bacteria nga makatunaw sang throat inflamation.
Susan Hopkins, deputy director sang Public Health England, mas maayo nga isamo sa mainit nga tubig ang honey kag imnon sang amat-amat.
Suno kay Hopkins, ang pag-inom sini ang kasubong sa epekto sang lemon kag luy-a nga ginbutang sa tubig.
Sa pihak sini, daku nga pagpanghangkat para sa medical experts nga bulongon sa natural nga paagi ang ubo apang mahimo maglala pa ang ginabatyag bangud sa mga ginaresita nga antibiotics kag mga inflamatory medicines.
Best practices sa Cebu sa away batok sa COVID-19, dapat i-apply na man sa Iloilo-Sec Cimatu
ILOILO CITY- Ginatugyan sang National Inter-Agency Task Force sa mga barangay officials ang mabug-at nga responsibilidad sa pag-neutralize sang kaso sang COVID-19 sa Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Department of Environment and Natural Resources Secretary Roy Cimatu nga amo ang head sang national inter-agency task force, iya ginpahayag nga nagaumpisa sa barangay ang away batok sa COVID-19 kag dako ang mabulig sang mga barangay officials.
Suno kay Cimatu, kaangay sa Cebu, nangin epektibo ang away batok sa COVID-19 bangud mas nahangpan sang mga opisyal sang barangay ang hulag sang ila mga pumuluyo kag mas nakahibalo sila kun paano dumalahon ang mga tawo.
Pahayag pa ni Cimatu, kun sadto, 300 cases per day ang marecord sa Cebu, ini ang naghagan-hagan na sa subong.
Dugang pa sang opisyal,diri sa Syudad sang Iloilo, nagaumpisa pa lang ang mga barangay officials apang positibo ini nga masarangan man sang mga brgy.
officials nga madumala kag makontrol ang ila mga pumuluyo bilang epektibo nga pamaagi agud mahagan-hagan ang paglapta sang virus.
Paghuragok, delikado ayhan sa ikaayong lawas?
Ukon natak-an kana bala sa magahod nga huragok sang upod mo sa pagtulog?
Virginia de los Reyes, sleep specialist sa Lung Center of the Philippines , apisar ang paghuragok ang warning sign na sang obstructive sleep apnea, indi tanan nga nagahuragok ang may yara sang sleep apnea kag indi tanan nga may sleep apnea ang nagahuragok.
Gani, dapat nga bantayan ang paghuragok kag obstructive sleep apnea bangud delikado ini sa ikaayong lawas bangud mahimo ini nga mangin bunga sang heart failure, heart attack, high blood pressure, stroke, neurocognitive impairment kag aksidente nga tuga sang pagkatuyo.
Ang obstructive sleep apnea ang nangin kabangdanan sang liwat-liwat nga pag-untat kag pag-umpisa sang pagginhawa sa pagtulog.
Pahayag niya, ini ang nagakaapekto sa kadam-an nga mga kalalakihan apang may mga kababaihan nga yara sa menopausal kag postmenopausal period ang may mataas man nga peligro.
Ini ang naka-apekto sa tanan nga tawo ano man nga edad lakip na ang mga bata.
Maid-id nga medical examination, ginapatigayon sa pagtumod sang lens nga igahatag sa pasyente nga may deperensya sa mata – IPAO, INC.
ILOILO CITY – Nagaagi sa maid-id nga medical examination antes hatagan sang eyeglasses ang mga may yara sang deperensya sa mata.
may yara sang objective kag subjective method sa pagkuha sang eye grade kun sa diin kinahanglan ini nga balansehon agud nga matadlong ang buron nga panan-awan sang pasyente.
Cejar, may yara sang kondisyon nga kun kaisa, indi pareho ang eye grade sang pasyente nga nagakinahanglan man sang nagkalain-lain nga lens.
Cejar nga ang deperensya sa mata ang mahimo nga palanubli-on, tuga sang bluelight gikan sa gadgets kag ultraviolet gikan sa sanag sang adlaw, ukon mapuling sang foreign objects.
Para naman sa mga may yara sang lazy eye kag cross eye, may yara man sang mga treatment agud nga ini ang matadlong.
May kaangtanan naman sa Sight Saving Month, may yara sang kampanya ang Integrated Philippine Association of Optometrists, Inc.
Cejar, ang mga pasyente nga kwalipikado para sa libre nga eyeglasses amo ang mga naga-edad sang 40 anyos pataas.
Ang pagpili sang mga mahatagan sang eyeglasses ang ipaagi sa partnership sa Bombo Radyo kun sa diin id-idan ang medical examination agud mahibalu-an kun ano nga lens ang igahatag sa benepisyaryo.
suno sa natungdan ang magabayad sang tanan nga fee.
Mga masami ginakulang sa tulog, mas prone sa hilanat
ESTADOS UNIDOS – Masami ka bala nga kulang sa tulog?
Santo sa pagtuon, ang tawo nga masami nga kulang sa tulog ang mas prone sa pag-angkon sang balatian kasubong sang hilanat.
Sunu kay Aric Prather, assistant professor sang psychiatry sa University of California sa San Francisco sa Estados Unidos, apat ka bes nga mas mataas ang risgo sang isa ka tawo nga dapuan sang hilanat kun masami nga tuyo.
Ginpahayag ni Prather nga nagakadapat nga ang tulog sa gab-i ang indi magnubo sa pito ka oras.
Ang pag-angkon sang bastante nga sleeping hours suno kay Prather ang wala sang may ginapili nga edad.
Ini bangud nga ang tigulang ukon bata man ang nagakinahanglan sang indi magnubo sa 7 ka oras nga kalawigon sang pagtulog agud mangin mabakod ang lawas sa pagbato sa balatian.
Pakistani missionary sa Iloilo, nagpositibo sa COVID-19
ILOILO CITY- Nagapadayon subong ang ginapatigayon nga contact tracing matapos nagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) ang isa ka Pakistani nga misyonaryo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Mr.
Jeck Conlu, tagpamaba sang COVID Team sang Iloilo City Government, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga Pakistani missionary ang nagatinir sa Mill Hill Missionaries Central House sa Avanceña Street, Molo, Iloilo City.
Suno kay Conlu, Agusto 17 pa nagpatigayon sang retreat ang pasyente kaupod ang mga madre.
Pahayag ni Conlu, may direct exposure man ini sa duha ka pari kun sa diin ang isa sa mga ini ang nagpauli pa sa Probinsya sang Antique kag ang isa naman ang yara sa Mill Hill Central House.
Ginkumpirma naman sang punong barangay sang Brgy.
Airport, Mandurriao, Iloilo City nga nakapadulong pa sa ila barangay ang nasambit nga Pakistani.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Benjie Macailing, iya ginpahayag nga regular nga nagapatigayon sang community outreach sa lugar ang misyonaryo.
Suno kay Macailing, gin-isolate na ang Mill Hill Formation House sa nasambit nga barangay.
Nagpasalig naman ang talatapan sang Mill Hill Formation House sa R.
Airport, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, nga nagasunod sila sa tanan nga protocol matapos na-expose sa COVID-19 positive nga Pakistani missionary.
Sa impormasyon nga eksklusibo nga nakuha sang Bombo Radyo sa tagpamaba sang Mill Hill Formation House, ginpahayag nga 20 ang naka-isolate sa amo nga lugar.
“Very cooperative” suno sa natungdan ang kada isa sa ila talatapan may kaangtanan sa ginapatigayon nga mga pagsulundan.
Aba, hinay-hinay lang sa pag-inom sang milk tea kag iban pa nga matam-is nga ilimnon bangud gina-guba sini ang imo nga ngipon.
Suno kay Stephen Almonte, isa ka dentista, iya ginpahayag nga ang tuman nga pag-inom sang mga ilimnon nga may madamo nga kalamay kaangay sang milk tea kag softdrinks ang nagaguba sang imo nga ngipon.
Pahayag niya, naga-produce sang acid ang milk tea nga amo ang nagabuho sang enamel.
Mas maayo pahayag sang dentista nga likawan ang mga ilimnon kag pagkaon nga may madamo nga kalamay sa diin 6 teaspoon lang sini ang kinahanglan ma consume sa lawas sang mga babaye kag 9 teaspoon naman sa mga lalaki.
Agud nga malikawan ang pagkaguba sang ngipon, dapat mag-toothbrush duha ka beses sa isa ka adlaw.
Duha ka tuig nga bata sa Lapuz, Iloilo City, patay bangud sa COVID-19
ILOILO CITY- Ginbawian sang kabuhi matapos nagpositibo sa COVID-19 ang duha ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki sa Lapuz, Iloilo City.
Jeck Conlu, head sang Public Safety and Transportation Management Office kag focal person for COVID-19 sa Iloilo City, iya ginpahayag nga Agusto 15 sang gin-admit sa St.
Paul’s Hospital ang bata matapos nagsuprir sang hilanat kag diarrhea.
Suno kay Conlu,ginpaidalom ini sa swab test apang ginbawian ini sang kabuhi kahapon sang aga, Agusto 19 antes naggwa ang resulta sang iya RT-PCR test kahapon sang hapon sa diin positibo ini sa virus.
Pahayag ni Conlu, makabig nga new case ini bangud wala man ini sang exposure sa iban nga tawo.
Gilayon naman nga ginpaidalom sa strict home quarantine ang tanan nga miembro sang pamilya nga may close contact sa bata.
Overall wellness: Nutrisyon, ehersisyo kag tulog – Eksperto
Ang nutrisyon kag ehersisyo ang lunsay importante ilabi na sa pag pa-improve sang ikaayong lawas sang tawo.
Apang may yara sang ika-tatlo nga factor nga makahatag sang overall wellness — ina amo ang pag-angkon sang bastante nga tulog.
Oyie Balburias, ang tulog, nutrisyon kag ehersisyo ang tatlo ka mga factors sa aton ikaayong lawas.
Dapat nga mangin balanse ang tatlo ka mga factors agud nga mangin healthy pahayag sang doktor.
May yara man sang insakto nga oras sa pagtulog kag pagbugtaw suno kay Dr.
Balburias — ina amo ang alas-9 sang gab-i tubtob alas 6 sa aga.
Kun late na nagatulog ang tawo, ang mga pagkaon nga iya ginkaon ang indi na ma metabolized rason nga nagadugang ang bug-at sini.
Nagahina man ang immune system sang tawo kun tatlo tubtob apat ka oras lang ang iya nga tulog bangud indi na makahimo pa sang nagkalain-lain nga immune cells ang lawas.
Integrated Philippine Association of Optometrists, Inc., may paandam may kaangtanan sa pagbakal sang eyewear sa online ukon sa indi lisensyado nga Eye specialist
ILOILO CITY – Daku ang risgo sang pagbakal sang eyeglasses kag contact lenses sa online ukon sa indi lisensyado nga eye specialist.
ilabi na subong nga madata ang online selling bangud sa pandemya.
Irene Peliño, Board of Examiner in Optometry sang Professional Regulation Commission, sa baylo nga makabulig, mahimo pa nga makapalala sang damaged sa mata ang ginabakal nga eyewear nga ginabaligya online ukon sa indi lisensyado nga eye specialist.
Peliño, ang mga eyewear nga ginabaligya sa online ang wala sang protection batok sa Bluelight kag Ultraviolet light nga makatuga sang eye damage.
Peliño nga ang Bluelight ang wave gikan sa cellphone, computer, tablets kag iban pa nga Light-Emitting Diode (LED) gadgets kun sa diin ang madugay nga exposure ang mahimo magtuga sang retinal damage kag age-related macular degeneration nga nagaresulta sa pagkabulag.
Ang tuman nga exposure naman sa Bluelight suno kay Dr.
Peliño ang mahimo man nga makatuga sang insomia samtang ang exposure sa Ultraviolet Radiation nga gikan sa sunlight ang mahimo magresulta sa Cataracts paagi sa pag-damage sang living tissue sa mata.
Ang lens nga gina-prescribe sang eye specialist suno sa natungdan ang may yara sang protective coat depende sa ginakinahanglan sang pasyente kag ini ang ginahimo sang maid-id sa laboratoryo.
Agud nga makalikaw sa risgo, ginapanugyan nga magpakunsulta sa eye specialist kasubong sang ophthalmologist kag optometrists.
Mga babayi, mas prone sa stress kun ipaanggid sa mga lalaki – Health experts
USA – Normal lamang nga makabatyag sang stress bangud sa trabaho ukon sa pagpangabuhi kag kun indi maagapan, sa ulihi, mahimo ini nga magresulta sa heart attack.
Apang nakahibalo ka bala nga ang mga babayi ang mas prone sa pagbatyag sang stress kun ipaanggid sa mga lalaki?
Suno kay Xiao Xu, assistant professor sa obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive sciences sa Yale University sa New Haven, Connecticut sa Estados Unidos, ang mga young women ang madali nga makabatyag sang stress kag may yara sang worse recovery kun ipaanggid sa mga young men.
Ginpahayag ni Xu nga santo sa pag-tuon kun sa diin siya ang co-author, mas mataas ang mortality rate sang mga babayi kun stress ang pagahambalan kag ini ang mahimo nga tuga sang family conflict, bisyo, unhealthy lifestyle, balatian ukon kamatayon sang pinalangga sa kabuhi.
Isa man sa mga rason kun nga-a mas stress ang mga babayi amo nga kun paano nila mahatag ang familiy care apisar sang lower financial resources ukon kapigaduhon.
Arnold, research assistant professor sa University of Missouri sa Kansas City sa Estados Unidos, ang mga tawo nga may madamo nga isyu ukon concern sa health kag personal life ang may mataas nga risgo sa pagbatyag sang stress.
Agud nga malikawan ang pag-angkon sang heart attack ukon ano man nga sahi sang balati-an tuga sang stress, mas importante suno kay Arnold nga mahatagan sang solusyon sa labing madali nga tion ang nagkalain-lain nga level sang stress santo sa psychosocial needs sang pasyente.
Reporma sa PhilHealth, halos wala na sang paglaum- Ex DOH Sec.
ILOILO CITY- Nagapati si Iloilo 1st District Representative Janette Garin nga wala na sang paglaum nga mareporma pa ang Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth) kun indi pa masolbar ini nga problema sa ahensya paagi sa ginapatigayon nga imbestigasyon subong.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Garin, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ka mabudlay ang magbutang sang reporma sa ahensya kag bilang anay tiglikom sang Department of Health, iya gin-ako nga ini ang pinaka-challenging nga organisasyon.
Suno sa mamalidha,apisar madamo ang matarong sa ahensya, nagakapilitan na lang ang iban sa ila nga maghipos ukon maghimbon sa mga kurakot bangud sa kahadlok nga madulaan sang trabaho.
Gintudlo naman ni Garin ang mga tawo sa legal kag finance department sa Central Office sang PhilHealth nga amo gid ang responsable sang mga anomaliya sa korporasyon.
Nagapati man si Garin nga naglala ang kurapsyon sa PhilHealth sang nagpungko sa posisyon si anay Health Secretary Paulyn Jean Rosell-Ubial.
Si Ubial ang nagbulos sa ginbayaan nga posisyon ni Garin bilang tiglikom kag gin-islan ni Secretary Francisco Duque III.
Suno kay Garin, mas naglala ang kinawatay sang pondo sa ahensya bangud sa mga garuk nga myembro sang board kun sa diin sadto nagpungko nga chairman si Ubial.
Nahibaluan nga sa termino ni Ubial bilang Health Secretary, tatlo ka beses sila nga nag appoint sang interim president sa PhilHealth.
85-anyos nga tigulang sa Tanza Baybay, gin-alegar napatay bangud sa COVID?
ILOILO CITY- Ginpa- cremate nalang sang iya pamilya ang 85-anyos nga tigulang nga taga Tanza Baybay, Iloilo City Proper matapos naglapta ang balita nga COVID-19 ang gintunaan sang iya kamatayon.
Dominador De Ocampo sang Tanza Baybay, iya ginpahayag nga mismo ang Iloilo Doctor’s Hospital ang nag-certify nga indi COVID-19 ang kaso sang tigulang sa diin nagnegatibo man ini sa rapid test.
Suno kay Deocampo, nagdesisyon nalang ang pamilya nga ipacremate ang bangkay para sa kalinong sang tanan.
Ginlockdown ang building sang Western Visayas Medical Center SubNational Laboratory matapos nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 ang isa ka staff.
Joseph Dean Nicolo, Chief sang Western Visayas Medical Center, iya ginpahayag nga siraduhan anay ang 1st kag 2nd floors sang laboratory building para magpatigayon sang disinfection.
Nicolo, mahimo nga maglawig sang apat ka adlaw ang lockdown.
Gin-athag naman niya nga magapadayon sa gihapon sa pagbaton sang specimen ang laboratoryo.
Ipadailom naman sa testing ang iban pa nga staff sang laboratory samtang yara na sa isolation room ang nasambit nga COVID-positive nga una na nga nakitaan sang sintomas kaangay sang sip-on kag hilanat.
Defensor,dismayado sa DOH bangud sa pagpabaya sa mga health care workers
ILOILO CITY- Dismayado si Iloilo 3rd Dist.
Rep Lorenz Defensor sa Department of Health bangud sa kapaslawan nga magamit sang maayo ang pondo sang gobyerno para sa pag-hire sang dugang nga mga health care workers sa tunga sang ginapangatubang nga COVID-19 pandemic.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Congressman Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga indi nangin epektibo ang ahensya sa pagtalupangod sa amo nga problema sa kakulang sang healthcare workers.
Suno kay Defensor, halos wala man sang maathag nga mihura ang ahensya may kaangtanan sa paghatag sang financial assistance sa mga healthcare workers nga napatay ukon naospital bangud sa COVID-19.
Ginkondena man sang mamalidha ang Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth) bangud sa ginakaulamiran nga anomaliya sa korapsyon ilabi subong nga madamo ang nagakapatay kag madamo ang pigado bangud sa pandemya.
May kaangtanan naman sa pagpasar na sa third and final reading sang Bayanihan to Recover As One Act ukon ang Bayanihan 2, nagalaum si Defensor nga magamit sang husto ang P162-billion standby funds.
Suno sa mamalidha,kuntani ipahigad man sang kongreso ang mga bagay nga indi kinahanglan kaangay sang death penalty bill kag talupangdon ang mga isyu nga mas importante kag kinahanglan sang mga Pilipino.
Nahibaluan nga isa si Defensor sa 242 affirmative votes ,may anom nga nagkontra kag wala naman sang pag-abstain angot sa House Bill No.
6953 nga magahatag sa mga tawo sang nagkalain-lain nga bulig sa tion sang pandemya.
ILOILO CITY- Gin-lockdown ang Out Patient Department sang Ramon Duremdes District Hospital sa Dumangas, Iloilo kasunod sang exposure sang mga personnel sang ospital sa isa ka COVID positive.
Cynthia Cabangal Ng, ang Chief sang Provincial Management Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga na- exposed ang mga personnel sa pito ka tuig nga bata nga gindala sa amo nga ospital sang Agusto 2 nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 kag ginbawian sang kabuhi.
Suno kay Ng, bangud sa lockdown sang Out Patient Department, kanselado man ang pre-natal, dental check up, kag mother’s class samtang sa bahin sang dog bite,ang pagabatunon lang amo ang follow up check up/ injection kag indi pagbatunon ang bag-o nga kaso bangud wala sang doktor nga maga-check-up.
ILOILO CITY- Dungog kag kakulba ang nabatyagan sang pamilya sang isa ka Ilonggo nurse sa United Arab Emirates matapos nga nagvolunteer ini agud mangin subject sa clinical trial para sa COVID-19 vaccine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Blessie Luzarita, utod sang nurse nga si Ramon Francisco Sonico sang Sta.
Barbara, Iloilo, iya ginpahayag nga nakibot na lang sila sang ginpahibalo sa ila ni Sonico nga nakapa-inject na ini sang first shot sang nasambit nga bakuna.
Suno kay Luzarita, apisar nabalaka, wala na nila ginkakibot ang ginhimo sang iya manghud bangud humalin sadto, duna na sa iya manghud ang mangin volunteer sa mapuslanon nga mga kawsa.
Gintuad ni Luzarita nga sa subong, nagahulat pa ang iya manghud sang 21 ka adlaw kag iga-inject sa iya kag sa iban nga mga human subjects sang trial ang ikaduha nga shot sang bakuna.
Si Sonico ang Nursing graduate sang Central Philippine University kag tatlo ka tuig na nga nurse sa isa ka ospital sa UAE.
Genetics kag environment, nalakip sa proposed factors kun nga-a nagatuhaw ang Asthma sa mga kabataan – medical expert
ILOILO CITY – Duha ka factors ang ginalantaw nga rason kun ngaa-a nagatuhaw ang Asthma sa kabataan.
Sa pagpaathag sang medical expert nga si Dr.
Teresa Martirez Hallegado, President, Philippine Pediatric Society Western Visayas Chapter, tubtub subong, indi pa matumod kun ano gid ang mayor nga rason apang santo sa pagtuon, may yara sang proposed factors kun nga-a nagatuhaw ang Asthma.
Hallegado, ang duha ka factors amo ang genetics kag environment apang kun basehan ang sintomas, wala sang kinalain ang Asthma sa mga kabataan kag sa mga tigulang.
Hallegado nga ang Asthma ang mahimo mapanubli paagi sa genes sang ginikanan kag may daku man nga epekto ang palibot nga gindaku-an sang bata.
Kabahin sa masami nga sintomas sang Asthma amo ang ubo ilabi na sa gab-i ukon kaagahon, mabudlay nga pagghinwa kag pagsakit sang dughan apang ang kinalain lang amo nga mas makapaathag sang maayo ang mga tigulang kun ano gid ang ila nabatyagan.
Kun may Asthma ang pasyente, lubos nga apektado amo ang tubo nga gina-agyan sang hangin sa baga kun sa diin nagahugot ang airways tuga sang pagpalamanog.
Gin-athag sang natungdan nga indi curable ang Asthma kundi mahimo lamang nga mahagan-hagan ang mabatyagan nga sintomas paagi sa pagtumar sang bulong kag iban pa nga medical treatment apang kun indi ini maagapan, mahimo nga bawi-an sang kabuhi ang pasyente.
Paghilam-os sang mabugnaw nga tubig, makapakalma sang nerves
Kalabanan sa aton any may yara sang morning routine kasubong sang paghilam-os pagkatapos magbugtaw, mag-tooth brush kag may apply sang skin care.
Apang ang simple nga paghilam-os sang mabugnaw nga tubig ang indi lamang agud nga makabatyag sang freshness kundi makabulig ini sa pagpakalma sang nerves.
Suno kay Robert Maue, professor sang physiology kag neurobiology sa Dartmouth Medical School sa Estados Unidos, ang proseso sang pagbatyag sang kakalma sa paghilam-os sang mabugnaw nga tubig ang ginatawag nga “Mammalian Diving Reflex”.
Ginpahayag ni Maue nga sa pila ka segundos nga paghilam-os, tatlo ka body changes ang nagakatabo.
Una, ang heart rate ang naganubo sang 25 percent.
Ika-duha, ang blood flow sa tiil ang naganubo apang nagataas naman ang oxygen level sa utok kag sa tagipusuon.
Ika-tatlo, nagakatabo ang blood shift apang ini ang posible sa tion sang deep dive sa dagat.
Sa tion sang blood shift, ang blood plasma ang kag ang tubig ang naga-agi sa tagsa ka organ sa lawas agud ini ang maprotektahan batok sa pressure.
Indi lamang sa pagbugtaw sang aga mahimo maghilam-os sang mabugnaw nga tubig kundi mahimo man ini buhaton pagkatapos sang meeting kag iban pa nga trabaho.
Kundi indi naman makapanghilam-os, mahimo man nga ang cold wet towel ang ipahid sa guya agud magkalma ang nerves sa lawas.
Nagamala bala ang imo nga bibig kada bugtaw mo sa aga?
Ina bala ang feeling nga gusto-gusto mo na gid mag inom sang tubig.
Ang pagmala sang bibig ukon ginatawag nga xerostomia ang isa ka kondisyon nga nagapahinay ukon nagapa untat sa paghimo sang laway.
Suno kay Jennifer Pettit, dental hygienist sa Miami, Florida, ang mga tawo nga naka experyensya sang nasambit nga kondisyon ang nagakabudlayan nga magtulon, mag-usap sang pagkaon ukon nabudlayan nga maghambal.
Kun indi gilayon mahatagan sang igtalupangod ang pagmala sang bibig, mahimo ini nga tunaan sang pagkaguba sang ngipon kag pagbaho sang baba.
Pahayag sang eksperto, kun indi gilayon mag ayo ang kondisyon, may yara sang dako nga posibilidad nga may yara ikaw sang impeksyon tuga sang fungi ukon virus sa imo nga bibig.
Iloilo Prov’l Capitol, balik na sa operasyon matapos ginlockdown
ILOILO CITY- Nagbukas na liwat ang Iloilo Provincial Capitol matapos ang duha ka adlaw nga lockdown matapos nagpositibo sa COVID-19 ang isa ka jobhire sa General Services Office.
Suzette Mamon, iya ginpahayag nga yara lang sa kapin 60% ang workforce sa kapitolyo bangud work from home ang mga empleyado nga naga- edad sang 60 anyos pataas.
Suno kay Mamon, lakip man sa mga dumilian nga magtrabaho amo ang mga nalakip sa Low, medium kag High Risk nga close-contact sang COVID-19 patient.
Nahibaluan nga 9 ang nalakip sa high risk, 8 sa medium risk kag 32 ang low risk nga close contact sang pasyente.
Ang mga nalakip sa high risk ang naka-facility quarantine samtang ang mga yara sa medium kag low risk ang naka-home quarantine.
Vitiligo, indi makalalaton kag indi makamamatay – Medical expert
ILOILO CITY – Indi makalalaton kag indi makamamatay ang Vitiligo.
Elvin Tiangha, ang Vitiligo ang isa ka skin condition kun sa diin amat-amat nga nagakadula ang pigment cells nga melanocytes nga amo ang nagahatag sang duag sa panit.
Tiangha, makabig nga long term skin condition ang Vitiligo kag mahimo lamang nga maglaton paagi sa genes.
Tiangha nga ang nasambit nga skin condition ang mahimo magtuhaw sa babayi kag lalaki apang mas madali nga makita ang white patches sa mga pasyente nga may dark skin.
Ang Vitiligo suno sa natungdan ang permanente nga skin condition apang mahimo ini nga mahagan-hagan paagi sa treatment kasubong sang pagbutang sang cream kag pagpaidalom sa phototherapy.
Makapaayo man nga likawan ang tuman nga pagpa-init kag ang pagpabutang sang tattoo.
Apisar nga indi makabig nga life-threatening, ginpahayag sang doktor nga may yara sang negatibo nga epekto ang Vitiligo sa social behavior kag self-esteem sang pasyente.
Pagpatigayon sang triage kag iban pa nga precautionary measures, prayoridad sang medical experts sa pagbaton sang medical consultation – Oncologist
ILOILO CITY – Mas ginahatagan sang prayoridad ang pagpatigayon sang triage sa pagbaton sang mga pasyente nga nagakinahanglan sang medical attention bilang precautionary measure batok sa Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19).
Sa pagpaathag sang Oncologist nga si Dr.
Anita Jesena, limitado sa subong ang face-to-face consultation apang indi man mahimo nga untaton ang paghatag sang serbisyo sang mga doktor bangud nga madamo nga pasyente ang nagakinahanglan sang bulig.
Sa pagbaton sang pasyente, ginabalanse sang mga medical expert kun sin-o ang dapat nga mangin prayoridad depende kun daw ano ka lala ang balati-an.
Jesena, indi kasubong sang una nga mahimo nga makapakunsulta sa bisan ano nga adlaw ukon oras ang pasyente apang sa subong, kinahanglan anay nga magpa-schedule sang appointment.
Jesena nga ang ang tanan nga medical staff ang nagasuksok sang Personal Protective Equipment kag may yara man sang plastic barrier nga ginapahamtang sa desk sang doktor agud nga malimitahan ang physical contact sa pasyente.
Ang nasambit nga lihok suno sa natungdan ang pila lamang sa mga lihok agud nga mahatagan sang proteksyon ang tagsa ka pasyente ilabi na ang cancer patients nga regular nga nagapaidalom sa treatment kag ginakabig nga vulnerable ukon madali nga malatnan sang balatian.
ILOILO CITY – Nagalaum ang alkalde sang Sta.
Barbara, Iloilo nga indi na madugangan pa ang na-infect sang Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) sa ila nga banwa.
Ini kasunod sang narecord nga casualty nga naggikan sa amo nga banwa nga amo si WV 336,52 anyos sa diin na-infect man ang iya 49 anyos nga tiayon nga amo si Patient no.
724 kag ang 8 ka tuig nila nga anak nga amo si Patient no.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Rema Somo, iya ginpahayag nga sa subong, nagapabilin nga naka-home quarantine ang iban nga family members lakip na ang duha ka kabulig sa balay nga nagnegatibo naman sa COVID-19.
Ang 13 ka mga shop kag store helpers sa Glass and Aluminum Supply nga ginapanag-iyahan sang napatay nga pasyente ang lunsay nakatapos na sang 14-day mandatory quarantine period kag wala nakitaan sang sintomas sang COVID-19.
Sour foods ukon maaslom nga pagkaon, makapalala sang mumps/bayuok – Health expert
ILOILO CITY – Makapalala sa mumps ukon bayuok ang sour foods ukon maaslom nga pagkaon.
Elvin Tiangha, ang mumps ukon bayuok ang isa ka makalalaton nga balatian tuga sang virus kun sa diin lakip sa mga sintomas sini amo ang hilanat, pagsakit sang ulo kag maskulo, pagbatyag sang kakapoy kag pagkadula sang gana sa pagkaon.
Tinagha, nagabanog ang salivary glands rason nga nagabanog man ang bahin sang guya kag makapalala diri amo ang sour foods nga nagapatunton sang laway.
Kasubong sa COVID-19, wala sang may ginapili nga edad ang bayuok kag madasig ini nga maglaton paagi sa laway kag iban pa nga droplets kag agud nga mahagan-hagan ang ginabatyag nga sintomas, ginapanugyan ang bed rest kag pagtumar sang painkillers kasubong sang ibuprofen kag paracetamol apang ang aspirin ang wala ginapanugyan sa mga naga-edad sang 16 anyos panubo.
Magluwas sa bakuna, ginakabig man nga alternatibo ang pagbutang sang warm ukon cool compress.
Kun mapabay-an, ang mumps ang mahimo nga magresulta sa viral meningitis sa tion nga makalab-ot na ang virus sa outer layer sang utok kag mahimo man ini nga magresulta sa pagbanog sang testicles sang mga lalaki kag matres sang mga babayi.
Pagbaligya sang mga assets sang pungsod, sabat sa ginakulang nga pondo sa tunga sang pandemya- Sen.
ILOILO CITY- Nagapati si Senate Minority Leader Franklin Drilon nga ang pagbaligya sa mga duta nga ginatindugan sang military, police headquarters kag national penitentiary ang solusyon agud indi na mangutang ang Pilipinas sa pagtapna sa Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Drilon, iya ginpahayag nga ang Camp Aguinaldo nga headquarters sang Armed Forces of the Philippines kag Camp Crame nga amo ang central office sang Philippine National Police nga makit-an sa Quezon City ang mahimo nga ibaligya bangud nahamtang ini sa syudad nga may mataas nga revenue generation sa pungsod.
Mangin ang New Bilibid Prison sa Muntinlupa suno sa senador ang pinakamahal nga penetentiary sa bilog nga kalibutan kun ang square meter sang duta ang istoryahan.
Ang matipon nga kwarta suno kay Drilon ang mahimo nga magamit sa pagbulig sa mga nagapamierde nga negosyo kag dugang ng social amelioration fund sa mga nadulaan sang trabaho.
Ginhimo pa nga palaanggiran ni Drilon ang Old Airport sa Mandurriao,Iloilo City nga isa na ka business center kag ang daan nga Iloilo Rehabilitation Center sa kilid sang Iloilo Provincial Capitol nga nangin isa na ka museum.
Ang Pagbabalik:Oil spill evacuees nga ginpatinir sa hotel, ginpabalik na sa ila balay
ILOILO CITY- Nakapauli na ang mga residente sang Mansaya, Lapuz, Iloilo City nga gin-evacuate sa hotel kasunod sang oil spill bangud sang paglupok sang power barge sang AC Energy sa Bo.
Obrero, Lapuz, Iloilo City sang damlag lang.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Barangay Kagawad Daryl Valenzuela, iya ginpahayag nga 70 ka pamilya ukon 223 ka mga indibidwal ang magapauli.
Suno kay Valenzuela, antes ang pagpabalik sa mga evacuees, nagpatigayon sang inspection ang mga tiglawas sang AC Energy kun dapat na gid man ibalik ang mga pumuluyo.
Suno kay Valenzuela,nagtahaw-tahaw na gid man ang baho sang bunker fuel kag nagatin-aw naman ang tubig.
Matandaan nga ginpangsaylo sa hotel ang mga evacuees kasunod sang reklamo ni Mayor Jerry Treñas nga daw ginpabay-an sang AC Energy ang mga evacuees sa mga eskwelahan nga una nagserbi nga evacuation centers.
“May makita kita manugpuli, bilog nga pamilya, may dala nga appliances.Migration is not a solution right now.”- Gov Defensor
ILOILO CITY- Gina-finalize na sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang appeal letter nga ipadala sa National Task Force Against Covid19 nga nagahingyo nga untaton anay ang pagpapauli sa mga Locally Stranded Individuals.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr., iya ginpahayag nga katuyuan sini nga mauntat ang pagtaas sang kaso sang Coronavirus disease 2019 sa rehiyon sa diin kalabanan nga mga nagpositibo ang mga Locally Stranded Individuals.
Suno sa gobernador, ini agud malikawan man ang pag-alawas sang mga Locally Stranded Individuals sa mga quarantine facilities sa Western Visayas.
Pahayag pa sang gobernador, indi man tanan nga nagapauli ang matuod-tuod nga stranded bangud ang iban ang naga-migrate lang.
Dugang pa sang opisyal, nahangpan niya nga kinahanglan sang mga tawo nga magpauli sa ila mga lugar apang lain ang tiempo subong sa diin yara sa community quarantine status ang bilog nga pungsod kag indi dapat makompromiso ang containment strategies.
Samtang, umpisahan na ang pagtukod sang Covid testing building nga may budget nga P9 million sa Iloilo Provincial Hospital sa Pototan, Iloilo.
Nagalaum naman ang gobernador nga sa subong nga semana, ideliver na ang nasambit nga machine agud gilayon nga magamit.
Nahibaluan nga isa lang ka machine ang ginagamit sa covid-testing sa Western Visayas Medical Center Subnational laboratory bangud indi compatible sa test kits ang tatlo ka iban nga machines.
Close contacts sang mga nagpositibo sa Covid-19 apang nagnegatibo sa repeat test sa Guimaras, gin-quarantine na
ILOILO CITY- Natapos na ang contact tracing sang Guimaras Provincial Government sa mga naka-close contact sang duha ka Locally Stranded Individuals nga nauna nga nagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019 apang nagnegatibo sa repeat testing.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Guimaras Governor Samuel Gumarin, iya ginpahayag nga ginpaidalom na sa quarantine ang mga nalakip sa contact tracing apang wala sang eksakto nga numero sang mga gin-contact trace nga ginhatag ang gobernador.
Matandaan nga ang mga LSIs nga nauna nga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 amo sanday Patient No.
475, nga taga Nueva Valencia, Guimaras kag Patient No.
Samtang, nagpatigayon sang coastal clean up ang Guimaras Provincial Government agud kuhaon ang mga nabilin nga bunker fuel kasunod sang oil spill nga nagluntad nga resulta sang paglupok sang power barge sang AC Energy sa Bo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Guimaras Governor Samuel Gumarin, iya ginpahayag nga ginpatigayon ang clean-up sa Barangay Hoskyn, Jordan, Guimaras kag gin-updan sang mga Local Government Units sa probinsiya kag mga ahensya sang gobyerno.
Ginreklamo naman sang gobernador ang kakulang sang mga personal protective equipment nga ginhatag sang Ayala Corporation para magamit sa pagpatigayon sang clean up.
May kaangtanan naman sa nagahilapit nga anibersaryo sang trahedya sa Iloilo -Guimaras Strait sa diin tatlo ka pumpboats ang nagkulob nga ginkamatay sang 31 ka mga tawo sang Agusto 3,2019, ginpahayag sang gobernador nga may patigayunon nga simple nga seremonya sa Buenavista Wharf kag Jordan Wharf agud dumdumon ang nasambit nga trahedya.
Repatriated OFWs nga nag-abot sa Iloilo, nagwangal bangud kaangay nga sila ang pinabay-an
ILOILO CITY- Nagsalangisag ang pila ka mga repatriated Overseas Filipino Workers(OFW) nga nagpauli sa Iloilo gikan sa Manila sakay sa duha ka PAL sweeper flights kaina sang kaagahon.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay John Red Giso, isa ka OFW, iya ginpahayag nga sang ginsugat sila sa Iloilo International Airport kag gindala sa Jubilee hall, wala sang may nag-atubang sa ila sa nasambit nga quarantine facility.
Suno kay Giso, nagtanga sila sang inoras sa lobby sang Jubilee hall kag wala sang husto nga instruction sa ila.
Pahayag pa niya, ginkabalak-an man nila nga posible tingubon lang sila sa isa ka komon nga kwarto upod sa iban nga nauna na nga naka-quarantine.
Nahibaluan nga sa nagpauli nga mga repatriated OFWs, 25 ang taga Iloilo City, 107 ang taga- Iloilo Province,18 ang taga- Aklan, 20 ang taga- Antique,23 ang taga- Capiz, kag walo ang taga- Guimaras.
Ginpangdala ang mga ini sa quarantine facilities sang ila tagsa ka Local Government Unit para magpaidalum sa RT-PCR Test kag 14-day nga mandatory quarantine.
WVMC-SNL, untatan anay ang pagbaton sang specimen para sa COVID-19 testing
ILOILO CITY- Untatan sang Western Visayas Medical Center sub-national laboratory ang pagbaton sang mga specimen sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Stephanie Abello, chief pathologist sang Western Visayas Medical Center sub-national laboratory ang naghingyo sini agud matatapan ang mga backlogs sa COVID-19 testing.
Te, sa tion nga maaprubahan, magasugod ang indi pagbaton sang specimen sa Hulyo 17,Byernes tubtob Hulyo 18,Domingo.
Apang gin-athag ni Te nga sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw, mahimo naman nga i-reroute sa iban nga testing laboratory sa rehiyon 6 nga amo ang masunod: Teresita Lopez Jalandoni Provincial Hospital Molecular Laboratory sa Silay City, Negros Occidental; Corazon Locsin Montelibano Memorial Regional Hospital (CLMMRH) sa Bacolod City; kag Qualimed Hospital sa Iloilo City.
May kaangtanan naman sa tatlo ka mga RT-PCR machines sa Western Visayas Medical Center sub-national laboratory nga wala ginagamit bangud indi compatible sa test kits, ginpahayag ni Te nga gina-fast track na ang pag-purchase sang mga test kits nga compatible sa mga machines agud mapadasig ang pagprosesos sang mga specimen kag malikawan ang backlogs.
Nahibaluan nga sa 5000 ka mga backlogs, may nabilin pa nga masobra sa 2,000 ka mga specimen ang wala pa napaidalom sa test.
14 ka LSI’s sa Pavia, Iloilo positibo sa COVID- 19
PAVIA,ILOILO- Gindula sang Local Government Unit sang Pavia, Iloilo ang kahangawa sang dugang nga transmission sang Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) kasunod sang pagpositibo sang 14 ka mga Locally Stranded Individuals sa nasambit nga banwa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Pavia Mayor Luigi Gorriceta, iya ginpahayag nga ang 14 ka mga nagpositibo sa COVID-19 ang kabahin sang duha ka batches sang Locally Stranded Individuals nga nag-abot sang Hunyo 26 kag 27 gikan sa Metro Manila.
Suno kay Gorriceta, pag-abot sa Iloilo, gindiretso sa quarantine facility ang mga Locally Stranded Individuals kag wala na nakasimpon sa iban nga tawo gani wala naman ginkinahanglan pa ang pagpatigayon sang contact tracing.
Nahibaluan nga ang nasambit nga 14 ka mga pasyente ang nalakip sa 91 ka kaso nga nagdugang sa Western Visayas base sa COVID-19 case bulletin No.
Tatlo sa apat ka RT- PCR machines sa WVMC, nakastand-by lang kag wala ginagamit
Stephanie Abello, chief pathologist sang Western Visayas Medical Center sub-national laboratory, iya ginpahayag nga sa apat ka mga machines sa laboratoryo, isa gid lang ang ginagamit subong.
Abello, indi compatible ang test kits sa iban nga machines kag isa ka makina gid lang ang mahimo magproseso sang mga swab samples.
Nagpangabay naman si Abello sa Department of Health nga maghatag sang iban nga brand sang test kits agud nga mapuslan ang kapasidad sang tatlo ka mga machines kag mapadasig ang pagproseso sang mga specimen.
Philippine Dental Association, nagpaandam tuhoy sa mataas nga risgo sa pag-angkon sang COVID-19 paagi sa pagdangop sa illegal practitioners
ILOILO CITY – Nagpaandam ang Philippine Dental Association tuhoy sa mataas nga risgo sa pag-angkon sang Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) kun magdangop sa illegal practitioners.
Mine Quilino, Presidente sang Philippine Dental Association – Iloilo, nagalaton ang COVID-19 paagi sa body fluids kasubong sang laway rason nga ginpauntat ang dental services sang nakaligad nga mga binulan.
Quilino, sa subong, amat-amat pa lang nga nagabukas ang mga dental clinics kag bilang new normal, ginapatuman ang istrikto nga pagsulundan kasubong sang pagpa-schedule sang appointment sa dentist, pagpatigayon sang screening sa mga pasyente, pagsuksok sang Personal Protective Equipment sang dentist lakip na sang mga staff kag mandatory na sa subong ang paggamit sang autoclave sa pag-disinfect sang dental tools.
Quilino nga ang dentist gid lamang ang lisensyado kag eksperto sa patag sang oral health apang sa subong nga may yara pa sang community quarantine, mas makapaayo ang home care kasubong sang masami nga pag tooth brush agud nga malikawan ang pag-angkon sang tooth decay.
Apisar nga barato ang serbisyo sang illegal practitioners, ginpahayag sang natungdan nga mahimo pa nga madungan ang problema sa oral health bangud sa kakulang sang nagakaigo nga equipment, tools kag wala sang proper hygiene.
Babaye nga naga busong kag natapikan sang COVID-19, dako ang posibilidad nga malatnan man ang lapsag sa iya tago-angkan
May yara sang mabakod nga ebidensya nga ang babaye nga nagabusong ang makalaton sang coronavirus disease 2019 sa lapsag sa iya tago-angkan.
Suno kay Claudio Fenizia, lead study author sa University of Milan, sa 31 ka mga babaye nga nagabusong nga gin-admit sa ospital, natukiban ang virus nga yara sa at-term placenta, umbilical cord, vagina kag sa breast milk.
Na-identify man ang specific COVID-19 antibodies sa umbilical cords sang pila ka mga nagabusong amo man sa milk specimens.
Bangud sini, posible pahayag sang eksperto ang in-vitro transmission.
Resulta sang rapid assessment sa epekto sang oil spill sa Guimaras, natalana nga ipagwa buas, Hulyo 10
ILOILO CITY- Nagpatigayon na sang rapid assessment ang Guimaras Provincial Government sa halit sang oil spill sa nasambit nga probinsya kasunod sang paglupok sang power barge sang AC Energy sa Bo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Guimaras Governor Samuel Gumarin, iya ginpahayag nga ang assessment ang nagasakop sang epekto sang oil spill sa ekonomiya, sa palibot, kag sa pumuluyo.
Suno kay Gumarin, padayon subong ang pag-collate sang data kag ginalauman nga mapagwa na ang resulta sang rapid assessment buas nga adlaw, Hulyo 10.
Nahibaluan nga nagdamo pa gid ang mga barangay nga nalab-ot sang oil spill sa diin 17 ka coastal barangays apektado sa Buenavista, walo sa Jordan, kag tatlo sa San Lorenzo.
Samtang, sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Eugene Reyes sang Buenavista, Guimaras, iya ginpahayag nga ginatun-an na ang pagdeklarar sang state of calamity sa banwa.
Suno kay Reyes, nagpatigayon na sila sang emergency meeting sa 17 ka mga coastal barangays sa banwa angot sa nasambit nga plano.
Samtang ginkumpirma naman sang alkalde nga magatanyag sang cash for work ang AC Energy sa mga pumuluyo apang 20 lang ka mga residente sa tagsa ka apektado nga barangay ang i-hire para magbulig sa oil spill clean up.
Pagpa-lugom sang buhok, indi dapat pag pirme-pirmehon
Nangin fashion na sang kadam-an ang hair color ukon pagpalugom sang buhok.
Iban sa inyo ang may luyag nga mag eksperimento sang buhok agud nga mangin trendy kag fashionable lantawon.
Apang kinahanglan nga man nga mangin mahinalungon sa paglugom sang imo nga buhok bangud mahimo ini makaapekto sa health sang imo buhok amo man sa imo ikaayong lawas.
Suno kay, Manuela Gago-Dominguez, medical doctor kag assistant professor sa Keck School of Medicine, ang paggamit masami sang lugom ang madasig nga makapa-upos sang imo nga buhok.
Ang mga lugom sa buhok ang may yara sang paraphenyldiamine kag labi nga maapektuhan amo ang mga tawo nga may dematitis.
Ang mga tawo nga may eczema kag psoriasis ang indi dapat magpalugom sang buhok.
Low-level transmission sang COVID-19 sa Western Visayas, ginkumpirmar sang DOH-6
Paul’s Hospital in Iloilo sa diin 11 ang kumpirmado nga kaso nga ginalakipan sang siyam ka doktor, isa ka nurse, kag isa ka staff.
Suno kay Alonsabe, makabig man nga low-level community transmission man ang natabo sa Alimodian sa diin gin-infect sang isa ka health worker ang pito ka miembro sang iya pamilya matapos naggwa ini sa quarantine facility apisar wala pa naggwa ang iya test result.
Pahayag pa ni Alonsabe, ang nasambit nga community transmissions ang makabig nga isolated kag natabo lang sa mga clustered areas sa rehiyon.
Dugang sang natungdan, nagapabilin naman nga mayorya sang kumpirmado nga kaso sang COVID-19 sa rehiyon amo ang mga Locally Stranded Individuals kag repatriated Overseas Filipino Workers (OFWs).
Nagpanugyan naman si Alonsabe nga sa pihak sang manubo nga lebel sang community transmission,kinahanglan nga maghalong sa gihapon kag sundon ang mga safety protocols.
May kaangtanan sa low-level community transmission nga narecord sa syudad, ginpahayag ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga kinahanglan sa gihapon nga mangin hugot ang pagpatuman sang mga protocol sa syudad ilabi na sa mga lugar nga masami ginadagsa sang madamo nga tawo.
Obrero kasunod sang oil spill, ginaligaran na sang gutom bangud sa delayed nga pagkaon
ILOILO CITY- Nagawangal ang mga pumuluyo sang Bo.
Obrero,Lapuz, Iloilo City nga nagatinir sa evacuation center kasunod sang natabo nga oil spill tuga sang paglupok sang power barge sang AC Energy Corporation sa nasambit nga lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Eden Lacap, isa sa mga evacuees, iya ginpahayag nga tuman ka kulang ang gina-rasyon nga pagkaon sa ila.
Suno kay Lacap, delayed man ang pagdul-ong sang pagkaon rason nga ginaligaran na sila sang gutom.
Suno naman kay Manang Inday, isa man sa mga evacuees, indi man ini kumporme sa linuto nga gina-provide sang korporasyon.
Pahayag niya, basi maglala pa ang iya balatian bangud tuman ka maasin ang mga linuto nga ginahatag sa ila.
Ginpahayag naman ni Florenda Espora, daycare worker 1 sang City Social Welfare and Development Office, may gina-provide man nga pagkaon ang Syudad sang Iloilo paagi sa community kitchen.
Ginkumpirma naman ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga AC Energy Corporation ang nagahatag sang pagkaon kag ang syudad amo ang nagaluto.
Sa subong suno sa alkalde, apat na ang evacuation centers para sa mga apektado nga pumuluyo kag plano sang alkalde nga magpahamtang sang community kitchen sa kada evacuation center para mas mahapos ang pagrasyon sang pagkaon.
Mahina nga immune system, paggamit sang nanari-sari nga produkto kag stress, mahimo magdulot sang kaspa – Health expert
ILOILO CITY – Makabig nga multi-million dollar business ang pagtapna sang Dandruff ukon kaspa nga common condition sa babayi kag lalaki.
Elvin Tiangha, ang Dandruff ukon mild form sang Seborrheic dermatitis ang tuga sang mahima nga immune system, paggamit sang nanari-sari nga hair products kag makadugang pa gid ang stress.
Tiangha, ang kaspa ang mahimo nga mabulong paagi sa anti-fungal shampoo, cream kag iban pa nga produkto santo sa ginapanugyan sang eksperto.
Ginpahayag ni Tiangha nga mas makapaayo nga likawan ang paggamit sang styling products nga may alcohol content bangud nga ini ang makatuga sang kaspa.
Mas nagadamu ang kaspa sa tion nga tuman ka tugnaw kag tuman ka init nga tiyempo apang ini ang nagadepende sa lifestyle sang isa ka tawo.
Pag-patawad sa tawo nga nakasala sa imo, makahatag sang kalinongan, paglaom kag kalipay
May yara ayhan sang tawo nga wala naka-eksperyensya sang kasakit?
Masami sa inyo ang na-akigan sang inyo mga ginikanan bangud sa sala nga inyo ginhimo, may na kontra sa opisina, ukon may yara ikaw sang traumatic experience kaangay sang pagpang-abuso pisikal kag emotional sang tawo nga malapit kag espesyal sa imo.
Ang ini nga mga pilas sa imo tagipusuon ang makatuga sang kaakig kag kalain sang buot.
Apang kun ikaw ang sahi sang tawo nga mabudlay mag-patawad, sa ulihe ikaw man sa gihapon ang mabudlayan.
Pinaagi sa pag-patawad sa tawo nga nakasala sa imo ang makahatag sang kalinongan, paglaom kag kalipay.
Ang pag let go ukon pagdula sang kalain sang buot ang maka pa-improve sang imo ikaayong lawas kag makahatag sang peace of mind.
Ini ang makahatag sang healthier relationship, makalikaw sa pagbatyag sang anxiety kag stress, makapanubo man sang blood pressure, ma pa-baskog ang immune system, kag maka pa-improve sang imo nga tagipusuon.
Gani sa imo dira nga may kalain sang buot nga gina tago-tago, tion na agud i-let go ina.
Ang Diyos nag-patawad sa aton mga sala kag sin-o kita para indi man magpatawad sang aton isig kapareho?
Manami mabuhi sa kalibutan kun wala ikaw sang kalain sang buot nga ginadala.
Paul’s Hospital Iloilo, wala pa napat-ud kun san-o i- lift
ILOILO CITY- Wala pa napat-ud kun san-o i-lift ang lockdown sa St.
Paul’s Hospital Iloilo kasunod sang pagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019 sang walo ka mga doktor.
Roy Villa, spokesperson sang Regional Inter-Agency Task Force, iya ginpahayag nga ginahulat pa nila ang resulta sang reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction( rt-pcr) test sang mga nalakip sa contact-tracing sa mga naka-close contact sang mga doktor antes desisyunan ang pagbawi sa lockdown nga ginpatuman umpisa sang Hunyo 29.
Suno kay Villa, magluwas sa resulta sang reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction( rt-pcr) test, kinahanglan nga natapos man sang ospital ang pagpatigayon sang disinfection.
Gindap Municipal Hospital sa Barbaza, Antique nga ginpaidalom man sa lockdown bangud sa pagpositibo sa Covid-19 sang isa ka doktor, ginpahayag ni Villa nga kasubong nga proseso man ang pagaagyan antes ma-lift ang lockdown.
Villa nga sa bag-o nga category, mas mahatagan poder ang mga Local Government Units nga magpatuman sang localized approach sa pandemya kag mas makapatuman sang mas strikto nga mga pagsulundan.
Nahibaluan nga gintunga sa duha ka kategorya ang MGQC nga amo ang “strict local action” nga nagalakip sang zoning, localized community quarantine, strict enforcement ukon minimum health standards, kag scale up sang health systems; samtang ang isa ka kategorya amo ang naga-classify sang iban nga area bilang “low risk.”
Mga doktor nga natukiban nga nakaupod sang mga doktor sang SPHI nga nagpositibo sa covid-19, nagadamo pa gid
ILOILO CITY- Nagadamo pa ang mga doktor nga natukiban nga nakasimpon sa mga doktor sa St.
Paul’s Hospital sa Iloilo City nga nagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19).
Nahibaluan nga walo ka mga doktor sang nasambit nga ospital ang nagpositibo sa Covid-19 kag sa subong, naka quarantine sa hostel sang nasambit nga ospital.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga isa sa walo ka mga doktor ang naglagaw pa sa Bacolod City kag nagkaon kaupod ang iban pa nga mga doktor.
Suno kay Treñas, bag-o lang nakatapos sa real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test ang nasambit nga mga doktor apang sa baylo nga mag- home quarantine matapos nag-angkon sang close contact sa isa ka Covid-19 patient, ginlapas sang mga ini ang medical protocol.
Sa subong, naka lockdown sa gihapon ang St.
Paul’s Hospital kag natalana nga buksan buwas nga adlaw.
Upod sa balay sang isa sa mga covid-positive nga doktor sa SPHI,ginpaidalom na sa strict home quarantine
ILOILO CITY – Ginpaidalom na sa strict home quarantine ang mga kaupod sa balay sang isa sa walo ka mga doktor sang St.
Paul’s Hospital Iloilo nga nagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019 ukon covid-19.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Jerelle Agilles sang Balantang, Jaro, Iloilo City kun sa diin nagaistar ang doktor, iya ginpahayag nga gilayon niya nga ginpabantayan ang balay agud indi makagwa ang duha ka kaupdanan sang nasambit nga doktor.
Magluwas sa gina-istaran sang doktor, gin-home quarantine man ang iya pamilya nga iya naka-close contact sa nasambit man nga barangay.
Suno kay Agilles, magluwas sa mga himata, nagpatigayon man sila sang contact tracing sa tanan nga mahimo naka-close contact pa gid sang mga natungdan.
Clemencia “Mimi” Bondoc, Presidente sang National Association of Municipal Health Officers of the Philippines (AMHOP National) kag Municipal Health Officer sang banwa sang Zarraga, iya ginpahayag nga ginapamatukan nila ang nasambit nga tikang sang Department of Health bangud mas kinahanglan sang Western Visayas ang serbisyo sang mga DTTO.
Bondoc, kaangay sa Cebu, nagasaka man ang kaso sang Coronavirus disease 2019 sa Western Visayas kag kun basehan ang statistics, dako ang pagkinahanglan sang Western Visayas sa mga doktor nga ipadala sa Cebu.
Pahayag pa ni Bondoc, bangud sa tikang sang natungdan nga ahensya, mahimo nga maapektuhan man ang nadihon nga plano sang Western Visayas batok sa covid-19.
May kaangtanan naman sa duha nga taga- Zarraga nga nagpositibo sa Covid-19 nga sanday: WV #256, 28 anyos nga lalaki ,isa ka repatriated Overseas Filipino Worker; kag WV #258, 27 anyos nga lalaki, isa ka Locally Stranded Individual, ginpahayag ni Bondoc nga yara sa estable nga kondisyon ang duha ka pasyente nga nagapaidalom sa facility quarantine.
Suno kay Bondoc, wala naman sang contact sa community ang duha rason nga wala sang dapat nga kabalak-an ang pumuluyo sang banwa.
May kaangtanan naman sa Hatid Probinsya sang gobyerno, ginpahayag ni Dr.
Bondoc nga kuntani indi lang paggulpihon ang pagpapauli sa mga nagakala-stranded nga pumuluyo.
Suno pa sa iya, nagakadapat man nga may yara sang proper orientation ang tanan nga ginapapauli.
SPHI, nagpatuman sang strict inspection kag disinfection sa tanan nga nagasulod sa ospital kasunod sang lockdown
ILOILO CITY- Magaagi sa istrikto nga proseso ang tanan nga pagkabutang nga ipasulod sa St.
Paul’s Hospital of Iloilo matapos nga gin-lockdown ini kasunod sang pagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019 sang anom ka mga doktor.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Police Major Francisco Paguia, hepe sang Police Station 1 sang Iloilo City Police Office, iya ginpahayag nga nagpahamtang sila sang lamesa sa main entrance sang ospital sa diin magaagi ang tanan nga butang agud ipaidalom sa disinfection antes pasudlon sa ospital.
Suno kay Paguia, ginsirado naman ang tanan nga gate sang ospital kag ang main entrance lang sa dalan General Luna ang ginbuksan agud mas mahapos ang pagmonitor sa nagasulod sa ospital bilang kabahin sang ginapatuman nga safety measures.
Ginabatyag nga anxiety subong nga may pandemya, paano bala masarangan?
Normal nga maka eksperyensya sang pag-kabalaka kag kasubo sa kabuhi sa tunga sang mga pagbag-o tuga sang coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic.
Joan Mae Rifareal, isa ka psychiatrist, indi malikawan nga makabatyag sang kakulba kag kasubo subong bangud nagakadula ang kontrol kag kasiguraduhan ang mga tawo angot sa dalagan sang kabuhi.
Pahayag niya, okay lang nga i-acknowledge ang inyo nabatyagan subong kag indi ini senyales nga mahina ang imo nga character.
Bangud sini, naghatag sang pila ka mga “healthy coping skills” ang doktor kaangay sang pagkaon sang mga masustansya nga pagkaon, pag-angkon sang bastante kag manami nga tulog kag pagpabilin sang “social connectedness” ukon relasyon sa iban tawo.
Panuyag ni Rifareal, limitahan man ang paggamit sang social media — mahimo nga duha lang ka beses mag check sang social media feed sa isa ka adlaw.
Ini bangud nga ang masobra nga paggamit sang social media ang maka-dugang lang sang aton pagbatyag sang anxiety.
Mga lalaki, mas mataas ang risgo sa pag-angkon sang Scabies kun ipaanggid sa mga babayi – Medical Expert
ILOILO CITY – Mas mataas ang risgo sang mga lalaki sa pag-angkon sang Scabies kun ipaanggid sa mga babayi.
Elvin Tiangha, isa ka medical expert, ang isa ka skin infestation tuga sang mite ukon Sarcoptes scabiei.
Ang nasambit nga microscopic mites ang mahimo nga magtinir sa panit sa sulod sang pila ka bulan kag nagatuga sang pagpalangatol kag rashes.
Tiangha, indi makita ang Sarcoptes scabiei bangud nga tuman ini ka gamay kag mabatyagan na lang ang presensya sini sa tion nga magpula, magpalangatol kag maghabok na ang panit.
Nagatubo ang rashes sa panit suno kay Dr.Tiangha sa tion nga magbuto na ang itlog sang Sarcoptes scabiei kag mahimo man ini nga maglapta ilabi na sa private part sang lawas.
Magluwas diri, makalalaton man ang scabies paagi sa physical contact, pagsubli sang gamit sang tawo nga may yara sang nasambit nga skin infection kag mahimo man ini nga maglaton paagi sa pagpakighilawas.
Gin-athag sang natungdan nga lain man ang human scabies kun ipaanggid sa mga sapat bangud ang Sarcoptes scabiei ang mabuhi lamang paagi sa human host.
May yara sang nanari-sari nga treatment depende kun daw ano ka lala ang scabies apang ang common lang amo nga mabulong ini paagi sa prescribed medicines.
ILOILO CITY- Bastante pa ang mga pasilidad sang Iloilo City Government nga ginapahamtangan sang mga Locally Stranded Individuals nga nagaabot sa Syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga ginagamit sang syudad ang University of Iloilo- Phinma, Jaro Gym, Iloilo Central Elementary School, kag Diamond Jubilee Hall bilang quarantine facilities.
Sa tion nga kulangon gid man, ginpahayag sang alkalde nga may yara na sang mga eskwelahan nga ginreserba ang syudad.
Suno kay Mayor Treñas, ini ang ginalakipan sang Lapaz Elementary School sa Lapaz; Molo 1 Elementary School sa Molo; Jaro National High School kag isa ka eskwelahan sa Balantang, Jaro, kag may isa man ka eskwelahan sa Mandurriao.
Pahayag sang alkalde, natalana nga magpirma sang Memorandum of Agreement sa masunod nga semana ang Iloilo City Government kag tagdumalahan sang ginreserba nga mga eskwelahan.
Covid positive nga taga-Lapuz, nagahilibion samtang naga-sorry
ILOILO CITY- Nagahilibion samtang nagapangayo sang pasaylo ang 40 anyos nga lalaki nga taga- Mansaya, Lapuz, Iloilo City nga nagpositibo sa coronavirus disease 2019 apang naghampang pa sang basketball, nag- inom, nagpa- manicure kag nagtambong pa sa lubong.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo kay alyas “Jong-Jong” nga amo si WV #227 , iya ginpahayag nga dako gid ang iya paghinulsol bangud wala ini nagpaidalom sa rapid test sa iya pagpauli sa Syudad sang Iloilo.
Suno kay Jong-Jong, nagsalig ini nga wala siya sang covid infection bangud nagnegatibo man ang resulta sang iya rapid test sang naghalin ini sa Metro Manila.
Pahayag niya, ini man ang rason kun ngaa wala na niya ginpahibalo ang tuhoy sa iya pag-abot sa mga opisyales sang Barangay Ingore, Lapaz kun sa diin siya nagtinir.
Nahibaluan nga matapos natukiban nga nagpauli ini sa Ingore, Lapaz, ginpaidalom ini sa rapid test sa diin positibo ang resulta kag sang ginpaidalom naman sa Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction Test , liwat ini nga nagpositibo.
Dako naman ang pagpasalamat ni Jong- Jong sa Bombo Radyo nga nangin palaagyan agud makapabutyag siya sang iya paghinulsol kag pagpangayo sang pasaylo kay Mayor Jerry Treñas, sa mga barangay officials, kag sa iya pamilya.
Samtang, apisar nangayo sang pasaylo si Jong-jong, ginpahayag naman ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas nga may salabton ini sa gihapon sa layi.
Suno kay Treñas, dapat nga mangin leksyon ini sa tanan bangud kun sulit-sulit lang ang kaangay nga hitabo, mabudlayan ang syudad nga matapna ang covid-19.
Gout indi lang para sa tigulang kundi amo man sa mga naga edad 20-anyos
Masami ginahambal nga para lang sa tigulang ukon may edad ang gout, isa ka sahi sang balatian nga nagapalanakit ang kasukasuan, ilabi na sa tiil tuga sang tuman nga uric acid.
Apang suno kay Jing Zamora, isa ka rheumatologist, mahimo man nga makaangkon sang gout ang mga kabataan nga naga edad 20 anyos pataas.
Pahayag niya, ang mga lalaki ang masami nga nagaka-angkon sang gout bangud mataas ang ila nga uric acid — isa ka kemikal nga kabangdanan agud mag-porma ang gout sa lawas.
Agud mabuhinan ang sakit nga nabatyagan, panugyan sang eksperto nga kun mahimo likawan ang mga pagkaon nga may uric acid.
Mas importante man nga mag pa check-up sa doktor agud makakuha sang pang-maintenance nga bulong.
Bungang balhas: Epekto kag Paano Malikawan
Nabatyagan mo man bala ang tuman ka init subong nga tyempo?
Apisar nga naga ulan-ulan sa Iloilo, indi sa gihapon manigar nga naga tagiti ang init.
Bangud sa mainit nga panahon subong, uso ang bungang balhas ilabi na sa mga bata ukon sa lapsag.
Karissa Platon, isa ka pediatrician, ang mga lapsag ukon kabataan nga naga edad 4 ka tuig panubo ang masami ginatubo-an sang bungang balhas bangud ang ila sweat glands ang padayon pa nga naga develop.
Apang indi lang mga bata ang nagakatubo-an sang bungang balhas kundi amo man ang mga tigulang ukon may edad nga masami naga balhas.
Masami magtubo ang bungang balhas sa tyura, liog, abaga, likod, tyan, dughan, sa idalom sang ilok kag iban pa.
Platon, siguraduhon nga hydrated ukon mag inom sang madamo nga tubig, indi pagkaluton ang bahin sang lawas nga may bungang balhas, maggamit sang mild soap lamang, magtinir sa sulod balay kun udto, magsuksok sang presko nga bayo kag gilayon nga mag ilis kun basa na ang bayo sang balhas.
Pamilya sang maglive-in partner nga covid positive, ginapaidalom na sa strict home quarantine
ILOILO CITY- Ginpaidalom na sa strict home quarantine ang walo ka miembro sang pamilya sang mag live-in partner nga Locally Stranded Individuals nga nagpositibo sa covid-19 nga nagpauli sa Calumpang, Molo, Iloilo City gikan sa Cebu City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Roberto Niño sang nasambit nga barangay, iya ginpahayag nga matapos ginpaidalom sa facility quarantine sanday patient # 191 kag patient # 195, gilayon man nga ginbantayan ang puluy-an sang duha sa diin gilayon nga gin-disinfect ang ila balay kag wala na gintugutan nga makagwa ang mga miembro sang pamilya.
Ginpanginwala naman ni Niño ang naglapta nga impormasyon nga naggwa kag nagmahjong pa ang nasambit nga mga indibidwal samtang ginapaidalom sa strict home quarantine.
Nahibaluan nga una nga nag-negatibo sa rapid test ang duha ka pasyente apang nagpositibo sa ginpatigayon nga real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.
Atensyon sa mga pirme lang ginakulang sa pagginhawa!
Ang shortness of breath ukon dyspnea sa medical nga termino ang mahimo i-describe bilang pagpalanghugot sang dughan kag feeling sang suffocation.
Rebecca Dezube sang Johns Hopkins University, mahimo maangot ini nga kondisyon sa mga nagapatama sang exercise, may mataas nga temperatura ukon sa obesity.
Agud malikawan nga maglala ang imo shortness of breath, mag-untat, maglikaw, ukon indi magpanigarilyo.
Likawi man ang exposure sa pollutants kaangay sang chemical fumes ukon secondhand smoke.
Likawi ang mga lugar nga may extreme temperature kaangay sang tuman ka init kag tuman ka lamig.
More Power, nag-sorry bangud sa brown-outs;ipatawag man sang City Council
ILOILO CITY- Nagpabutyag sang pagkadismaya ang Iloilo City Council sa More Electric and Power Corporation bangud sa sunod-sunod nga mga scheduled kag unscheduled power interruptions sa Syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa privilege speech ni Iloilo City Councilor Rommel Duron, chairman sang Committee on Energy and Public Utility sa konseho, iya ginpahayag nga mahangpan niya ang mga malip-ot kag scheduled nga mga brown-outs apang indi ang malawig kag wala na schedule nga mga brown-outs.
Gintumod pa niya ang natabo nga brown-out sang Hunyo 20 tubtob 21 nga naglawig sang 13 ka oras sa diin naapektuhan ang distrito sang Mandurriao.
Suno kay Duron, nagpangayo naman sang pasaylo ang More Power pinaagi sa ila tagpamaba nga si Mr.
Jonathan Cabrera nga personal nga ginpadulungan ni Duron agud istoryahon tuhoy sa mga nagaluntad nga brown-outs.
Ginakabig naman ni Iloilo City Councilor Ed Peñaredondo nga pagpanunto ang ginahimo sang More Power sa Syudad sang Iloilo.
Sa mensahe ni Peñaredondo, iya ginpahayag nga wala napanindugan sang More Power ang ila promisa nga indi na masulit ang naeksperyensiyahan sang syudad sang ang Panay Electric Company pa ang power distributor.
Suno naman kay Councilor Ely Estante, kuntani nagbakal kag nagtukod na lang sang bag-o nga mga pasilidad ang More Power sa baylo nga gin-expropriate ang mga pasilidad sang Panay Electric Company.
Pinaagi sini, wala na kuntani nabudlayan ang More Power sa pagkaayo sa mga gubaon nga pasilidad sang Panay Electric Company nga amo ang ginatunaan sang brown-out.
May kaangtanan diri, ipatawag naman sang Iloilo City Council ang More Power matapos ginrekomenda ni Estante kay Duron ang pagpatigayon sang investigation in aid of legislation agud pasabton ang power distributor nga gintalana sa Hunyo 30.
“I-lockdown ang baba sang mga tsismosa.”- Calumpang PB Niño
ILOILO CITY- Ginpanginwala sang barangay officials sang Calumpang, Molo, Iloilo City ang naggwa nga impormasyon nga naglagaw pa samtang ginapaidalom sa home quarantine ang duha ka Locally Stranded Individuals gikan sa Cebu kag nagpauli sa nasambit nga lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Roberto Niño, iya ginpahayag nga sang nag-abot sang Hunyo 17 ang duha ka Locally Stranded Individual, gilayon ang mga ini nga ginpaidalom sa home quarantine, ginpaidalom sa rapid test kag ginkuhaan sang swab sample para sa real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test.
Suno kay Niño, nag-negatibo sa rapid test ang duha apang nagpositibo sa (RT-PCR) test sang ginpagwa ang resulta kahapon, Hunyo 23 sa diin gilayon man ang mga ini nga gindala sa Jubilee Hall agud ipaidalom sa facility quarantine.
Hugot man nga ginpanginwala ni Niño nga ipaidalom sa lockdown ang bilog nga Calumpang.
DOH-6,imbestigaran ang BFP-6 re: kwestiyonable nga incident report
ILOILO CITY- Magapatigayon sang kaugalingon nga imbestigasyon ang Department of Health- Region 6 may kaangtanan sa ginpasa nga incident report sang Bureau of Fire Protection – Region 6 tuhoy sa pagpadulong sa Boracay sang mga katapo sang ahensya sa diin upod pa nila ang personnel nga nagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019.
Marlyn Convocar, Regional Director sang Department of Health Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga sa nasambit nga incident report, nasaad nga “Official Business’ ang rason sang pagpadulong sang mga personnel sang Bureau of Fire Protection sa Boracay.
Suno kay Convocar, sa nasambit nga incident report , wala nabutang ang pag-upod sang personnel nga nagpositibo sa covid-19 sa diin mismo si Malay, Aklan Mayor Floribar Bautista ang una na nga nagkumpirma nga yara sa manifesto ang pangalan ni Patient 144 sa Western Visayas, nga isa ka locally stranded individual nga taga- Cebu City kag assigned sa Finance Management Division sang ahensya.
Sa subong suno kay Convocar, gina-validate pa sang Department of Health Region ang tanan nga impormasyon nga nasaad sa incident report sang Bureau of Fire Protection.
BFP personnel nga nagpositibo sa Covid-19, kumpirmado nga naglagaw pa sa Boracay
ILOILO CITY- Ginkumpirma sang Local Government Unit sang Malay, Aklan nga nagpadulong sa isla sang Boracay sang personnel ang Bureau of Fire Protection- Region 6 nga nagpositibo sa Coronavirus disease 2019(Covid-19) apisar wala pa natapos ang iya quarantine.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Frolibar Bautista sang Malay, Aklan, iya ginpahayag nga Hunyo 12 sang nagsulod sa isla sang Boracay si WV 144, isa ka 26 anyos nga personnel sang nasambit nga ahensya sa diin upod niya ang kapin 30 ka mga katapo sang Bureau of Fire Protection- Region 6 kag upod pa si Regional Director Fire Senior Supt.
Suno kay Bautista, Hunyo 14, ginabanta ala-una sang hapon sang nagpull-out ang grupo apang wala pa nahibaluan kun sa diin nagtinir ang mga ini sa sulod sang duha ka adlaw.
Sa subong suno sa alkalde, padayon ang contact tracing sa mga tawo nga posible naka-close contact sang nasambit nga BFP personnel.
Paimbestigaran man sang alkalde ang nasambit nga insidente kag desidido ini nga magpasaka sang kaso kun mapamatud-an nga may breach of protocol, may paglapas ang ahensya sa Bayanihan to Heal as One Act, kag kun may natabo nga pagpangsabotahe ilabi na nga subong nga adlaw, Hunyo 16, ang reopening sang Boracay para sa bilog nga Western Visayas.
Sa pihak sini, ginpat-ud ni Bautista nga magapadayon sa gihapon ang operasyon sang isla para sa mga turista bilang kabahin sang liwat nga pagbuhi sa sektor sang turismo sa Rehiyon 6.
Problema sa pagmitlang, anxiety, tuman nga kasubo: Paano malampuwasan?
“Namayha ron ‘ko maghambal sa iban nga taho.”
Daw sa…daw…gusto-gusto mo ron…gusto-gusto mo ron i-ano…imitlangon, tita, garing daw….daw ma-experience mo ang daw…daw block bala, tita.”
Ini ang pagpahayag ni Gemini 21, tagpalasakop sa Kahapon Lamang Program (KLP) sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo, Hunyo 13.
Kag daw nagakaubusan sang tinaga kun maghambal si Gemini 21.
“Ang problema, tita, ang problema…ang paghambal ko don.
Daw nag-ano don da sa isipan ko Tita…nga amo na ang disorder ko,” pahayag ni Gemini kay Tita Regine, host sang nasambit nga programa.
Santo sa panaysayon sang natungdan, sang damlag lang niya nahibaluan nga ang iya kondisyon nga iya gintawag bilang “ stammering ” ukon” stuttering ” ang isa ka disorder.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, nagabatyag siya sang kahadlok, kahuya, kag kasubo sa tion nga siya ang maghambal bangud masami nga indi niya matapos ang iya luyag ipahayag kag nagasulit-sulit ang iya mga tinaga.
Nag-umpisa ang amo nga pagpanghangkat suno kay Gemini 21 sang tion nga ginasunlog siya nga “pitla” sang iya mga classmates sang elementary.
Ginpahayag sang natungdan nga umpisa sadto, nadula ang iya pagsalig sa kaugalingon, rason nga wala siya nagapakigbahin sa mga aktibidad nga may yara sang speech ukon ano man nga klase sang malawig nga pagpaathag.
Apisar sang ginasuprer nga kondisyon, isa ka consistent honor student si Gemini 21 kag nag-graduate pa bilang Cum Laude sa degree nga Bachelor of Science in Agriculture.
Apang aminado ang natungdan nga tubtob subong, ginaproblema man niya sa gihapon ang nasambit nga speech disorder kag nagalalain siya sa tion nga makit-an niya nga natak-an ang mga tawo sa paghulat sang iya luyag ihambal.
Common apang daku ang epekto sang childhood-onset fluency disorder, isa ka communication disorder sang isa ka tawo nga nabudlayan magmitlang sang mga tinaga.
Ini ang suno sa in-house psychologist sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo nga si Professor Monique Muyargas.
Paathag ni Professor Muyargas, mas common ini nga kondisyon sa mga kalalakihan kag maathag nga naga-umpisa sa pagkabata apang may tsansa man nga ma-overcome sa edad nga 8 ukon 9 anyos.
Apang kun indi ini matapna, mahimo ini magresulta sa sitwasyon kaangay sang ginabatyag ni Gemini 21.
Ginpahayag man ni Professor Muyargas nga wala sang bulong ang amo nga disorder.
Sa mga bata pa, importante ang masami nga pag-practice sa paghambal kag ang pagkonsulta sa isa ka speech pathologist.
Kun may edad naman ang isa ka indibidwal kaangay ni Gemini 21, nagpanugyan si Professor Muyargas nga importante nga buligan nila ang ila kaugalingon paagi sa pag-istorya sa iban nga tawo, pagdaug sa kahuya, kag pagdugang sang pagsalig sa kaugalingon.
Base naman sa Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders – Fifth Edition, dapat nga may yara sang cognitive therapy ang isa ka indibidwal nga nagasuprer sang amo nga disorder agud mabuligan ini nga ma-express ang kaugalingon.
Paggamit sang underwear sa pagtulog may malain nga epekto sa ikaayong lawas
USA – Nakahibalo ka bala nga ang paggamit sang underwear sa tion sang pagtulog ang may negatibo nga epekto?
Nancy Herta, isa ka Obstetrician Gynecologist, ang pagsuksok sang underwear sa tion nga magtulog ang mahimo makatugasang nga isa man sa mga rason sang yeast infection kag bacterial viginosis.
Ang paggamit sang underwear nga may indi maayo ang kalidad ang mahimo man nga magtuga sang pagpalangatol.
Vanessa Mackay, spokeswoman sang Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, nga ang paggamit sang undergarment kaangay sang underwear ang makatuga sang pagpalangatol ilabi na sa mga naga menopause.
Ginaduso sang Gynecologist nga indi maggamit sang underwear sa pagtulog agud malikawan ang moisture nga nagadala sang bacteria nga mahimo makatuga sang impeksyon.
Para naman sa indi makasaho, mas maayo nga maggamit sang mahumok, cotton ukon halog nga underwear sa pagtulog.
Covid-free New Zealand, may bag-o na naman nga problema
NEW ZEALAND- Disiplina kag batasan sang mga pumuluyo ang rason kun ngaa nalab-ot na sang New Zealand ang Coronavirus disease 2019 ukon Covid-19 free status.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Bombo International Correspondent Tess Trivilegio Cedro Peeters direkta sa Oakland, New Zealand, iya ginpahayag nga halos tanan nga tawo ang disiplinado kag nagasunod sa protocol nga ginapatuman sang gobyerno kag ilisipon gid lang ang nagalapas.
Suno kay Peeters, bangud nga covid-free na ang New Zealand, balik na sa normal ang pangabuhi sang mga tawo sa diin wala na sang restrictions magluwas lang sa pag-obserbar sang social distancing nga ginapatuman.
Mahimo naman nga makapatigayon sang mga parties kag pagtililipon kag mahimo man nga makapadulong sa simbahan para magtambong sa misa.
Sa pihak sini, magapabilin sa gihapon ang pagpatuman sang border restrictions sa diin dumilian ang pagsulod sang mga dumuluong apang mahimo naman nga makasulod sa pungsod ang mga citizens ukon residente sa kondisyon nga magapaidalom ang mga ini sa 14-day quarantine.
Ginpahayag naman ni Peeters nga apisar nagbalik na sa normal ang sitwasyon, may yara naman sang ginapangatubang nga problema sa suplay sang tubig rason nga may water restrictions nga ginapatuman.
Alerta: Indi kinahanglan mag-mask samtang naga jogging; Mga pumuluyo, sundon gihapon ang mandu sang gobyerno sa kakulba nga ma-multahan
ILOILO CITY – Wala sang may mahimo ang mga pumuluyo nga naga jogging sa syudad sang Iloilo kundi magsuksok sang facemask apisar mabudlay magginhawa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Filomeno Sarsowa Jr., isa sa mga naga jogging sa Plaza Libertad, iya ginpahayag nga nagasuksok siya sang mask samtang naga jogging bilang pagsunod man sa executive order ni Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas amo man sa mandu sang Inter-Agency Task Force kag Department of Health.
Suno kay Sarsowa, sa tion nga mag basa ang mask, mabudlay na magginhawa — gani ang iya gin-obra kun naga jogging, ang baba lang ang ginatabonan niya sang facemask.
Dugang pa sang natungdan, kun indi siya magsuksok sang mask, mahimo nga makit-an siya sang pulis kag dakpon ukon multahan sang P500 sang compliance team sang city government.
Indi kinahanglan nga magsuksok sang facemask ang mga tawo nga naga jogging ukon nagapatigayon sang physical activities.
Florentino Alerta, iya ginpahayag nga gamay lang ang oxygen nga nagasulod sa baba kun naga mask samtang naga jogging nga mangin tunaan sang kabudlay sa pagginhawa sang tawo.
Kun open space, gamay lang ang tawo sa palibot kag gina-obserba man ang physical distancing, indi na kinahanglan pa nga magsuksok sang facemask.
Alerta, sa tion nga basa ang mask samtang ginagamit, may posibilidad pa nga ma-absorb ang virus.
Dugang sang natungdan, common sense na lang kuntani nga nagaka-apektuhan ang ginhawa sang tawo kun kinahanglan gid ang mga ini nga magsuksok sang facemask samtang naga ehersisyo.
Regular exercise, ginapanugyan sang fitness instructor
ILOILO CITY – Daku ang mabulig sang regular nga pag-ehersisyo apisar nga yara lamang sa sulod sang balay.
Sa Good Morning Philippines program, ginpahayag sang fitness instructor nga si Lodi Basco nga nagakadapat nga magtalana sang 150 minutes sa tagsa ka semana para sa pag-ehersisyo.
Suno ay Basco, nakadepende sa tawo ang pagpili sang ehersisyo kasubong sang zumba ukon workout kag mas maayo nga mag-umpisa sa pinaka simple nga sahi sang ehersisyo tubtub nga maanad ang lawas.
Ginpahayag ni Basco nga bilang fitness instructor, iya gid napamatud-an nga mas maayo ang pamatyag kun makapabalhas bangud nga indi man mahinago nga ang pag-ehersisyo ang may yara sang maayo nga epekto sa lawas.
Mas maayo man suno kay Basco nga may yara sang music samtang naga-exercise bangud nga ang musika ang nagapadugang sang gana sa paghulag kag ang rythmn sini ang mahimo sundon kun ano ka dasig ang pag-ehersisyo.
Mental health problem, makabig nga sensitibo – WVPSC
ILOILO CITY – Makabig nga sensitibo ang paghatag sang solusyon sa mental health problem.
Ini ang ginpahayag sang isa ka Registered Guidance Counselor may kaangtanan sa numero sang mga nagapangayo sang bulig sa Western Visayas Psychosocial Support for COVID-19.
Sa Good Morning Philippines Program, ginpahayag ni Francis Ray Subong, volunteer sa nasambit nga grupo, nga tama ka lapad ang sakop sang ginatawag nga Psychosocial Service.
Suno kay Subong, ang tagsa ka tawo ang may yara sang nanari-sari nga personalidad rason nga nagkalain-lain man nga Pyschosocial Service ang kinahanglan gikan sa mental health professionals kasubong sang Psychologist kag Counselor.
Ginpahayag ni Subong nga ang ginapangatubang nga pandemya ang nakatuga sang mental health problem rason nga natukod ang Western Visayas Psychosocial Support for COVID-19, isa ka grupo nga nagahatag sang online mental health services.
Sang sang Abril suno kay Subong, nagtaas ang numero sang mga nagapangayo sang bulig bangud sa stress nga tuga sang kahangawa nga malatnan sang Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) kag ilabi pa nga madamo ang nadismaya bangud nga ginpalawig ang lockdown.
Subong nga yara na sa Modified General Community Quarantine ang kalabanan nga mga lugar sa rehiyon, ginpahayag sang natungdan nga nagnubo ang numero sang mga nagapangayo sang mental health services.
Ang nasambit nga grupo ang mahimo nga malab-ot paagi sa Facebook Page nga Western Visayas Psychosocial Support for COVID-19.
ILOILO CITY – Indi upang ang ginapatuman nga Enhanced Community Quarantine sa pag-angkon sang healthy lifestyle.
Sa Good Monring Philippines program, ginpahayag ni Georey Bucana, fitness instructor, nga bisan sa balay lang, mahimo sa gihapon nga maka-ehersisyo.
Suno kay Bucana ang pagpabilin nga physically fit ang makabulig agud nga mapahilayo sa balatian kag bangud sa hilig sa pagsaot, nadesisyunan niya nga tutukan na lang ang pagpatigayon sang zumba class sa baylo nga magpadayon sa body buidling.
May yara sang tatlo ka phase nga dapat sundon agud nga indi mamag-o ang lawas sa exercise routine kag ini ang ginalakipan sang warm-up, toning kag cooling down.
Importante suno kay Bucana ang warm-up ilabi na sa mga bag-uhanon agud nga maanad ang lawas sa physical activities samtang ang toning naman amo ang exercise nga ginahimo para sa development sang physique kag ang cooling down naman amo ang phase kun sa diin amat-amat nga ginapakalma ang muscles.
Para sa mga newbie, mahimo nga mag-exercise sa sulod sang 45 ka minutos tubtub sa 1 ka oras sa sulod sang isa ka adlaw.
Doktor sa Guimaras, ginbalibaran nga tatapon ang mga PUI’S kag PUM’s re:covid-19
ILOILO CITY – Ginkondena sang Guimaras Provincial Government ang isa ka doktor nga nagpamalibad nga tsekyaron ang mga Persons under Investigation kag Persons Under Monitoring bangud sa coronavirus disease 2019 ukon covid-19.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Guimaras Governor Samuel Gumarin, ginkumpirma niya nga may isa ka doktor sa probinsya nga nagpanago bangud nahadlok ini nga maka close contact sa mga PUM’s kag PUI’s.
Suno kay Gumarin, indi batasan sang isa ka health professional ang ginpakita sang doktor.
Ginpahayag pa ni Gumarin nga may ginsumpaan nga katungdanan ang mga doktor kag indi dapat ini pagtalikdan ilabi na subong nga nagapangatubang ang kalibutan sa epidemya sang covid-19.
Sa subong, ginapaimbestigahan na sang Guimaras provincial government ang wala pa ginpangalanan nga doktor.
Nahibaluan nga yara sa 758 ang PUM’S kag 7 ang PUI’s sa bilog nga probinsya sang Guimaras.
Kalawag, madamo ang maayo nga benepisyo para sa ikaayong lawas
ILOILO – Atensyon sa mga mahilig sa turmeric bangud ini ang may benepisyo nga mahatag sa lawas sang isa ka persona.
Suno kay Anupama Kizhakkeveettil, board member sang National Ayurvedic Medical Association, iya ginpahayag nga ang turmeric ang makabulig agud indi magtaas ang cholesterol sang isa ka tawo.
Ang iban sa mga benepisyo sini ang ginalakipan sang anti-viral kag anti fungal, nagamit agud magbulong sang rheuma, ortheoarthritis, kag exzema.
Covid-19, indi big deal sa mga tawo sa Norway apisar 25 na ang kumpirmado nga kaso
OSLO, NORWAY- Naglab-ot na sa 25 ang kumpirmado nga kaso sang coronavirus disease 2019 ukon covid-19 sa pungsod Norway.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jean Larrosa Arsenal sang Lambunao, Iloilo kag 12 ka tuig na nga nagatrabaho sa Oslo, Norway, iya ginpahayag nga ang pinakaulihi nga nag positibo sa covid-19 ang duha ka trabahador sa ospital nga nagbakasyon sa Italy.
Suno kay Arsenal, sang nagbalik ang duha kag nag-duty sa ospital, didto na kag nagdamo ang ila nalatnan.
Sa subong suno kay Arsenal, may yara pa sang 28 nga ginpaidalom sa test.
Magluwas diri, may 300 naman ka mga pumuluyo ang ginpaidalom nalang sa home quarantine bangud kulang sa pasilidad ang mga ospital sa lugar.
Wala naman sang kanselasyon sang mga klase kag opisina.
Na-obserbahan naman ni Arsenal nga kaangay nga wala nakulbaan ang mga tawo sa covid-19 bangud sa ila pagpati nga flu lamang ini kag indi man delikado kun mabaskog ang immune system.
Baligyaanay sang frozen foods sa syudad, indi apektado sang isyu sa ASF
ILOILO CITY- Indi tuman ka apektado ang negosyo sang mga nagabaligya sang frozen foods sa Syudad sang Iloilo sa tunga sang isyu sang African Swine Fever.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Steve Legazpi, 25 ka tuig na nga nagahimo sang frozen foods sa Iloilo Central Market, iya ginpahayag nga maayo sa gihapon ang baklanay apang may mga bes man nga indi maayo ang baligyaanay.
Suno kay Legazpi, ginapasiguro man nila nga preska ang ila karne bangud naggikan ini sa slaughter house kag may nagakaigo nga resibo nga ginapakita ang supplier.
Pahayag pa ni Legazpi, isa lang ang supplier nila halin sang una tubtob subong rason nga wala man sila nagakabalaka sa kalidad sang karne nga gina-deliver sa ila.
Mga tikang ni PAO chief Acosta, pinakamataas nga sahi sang hipokrisiya- Garin
ILOILO CITY- Gintawag ni anay Department of Health Secretary kag subong Iloilo 1st District Representative Janet Garin nga pinakamataas nga sahi sang hipokrisiya ang pahayag ni Public Attorney’s Office Chief Percida Acosta nga pagpatukod sang dengvaxia court.
Ini matapos ginpahayag ni Acosta nga naluoy siya kay Garin gani ginhingyo niya kay Court Administrator Midas Marquez nga maghimo sang dengvaxia court agud matipon diri ang tanan nga kaso angot sa dengvaxia kag agud indi na mabudlayan si Garin sa tion nga ginapatawag sa nagkalain-lain nga korte.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Garin, iya ginpahayag nga luyag lang tabunan ni Acosta ang mga iligalidad nga iya ginpangkumiter bilang chief sang Public Attorney’s Office.
Suno kay Garin, tinutuyo ni Acosta nga i-lisa ang atensyon sang publiko agud indi matutukan ang technical malversation nga kaso batok sa iya kag nakitaan man sang Office of the Ombudsman sang probable cause sa kaso nga graft and corruption bangud sa paggasto sang pondo sang ahensya sa mga hilikuton nga indi na sakop sang Public Attorney’s Office kaangay sang pagpa-autopsy sang mga ginapatihan napatay bangud sa dengvaxia.
Magluwas diri, ginpahayag sang mamalidha nga isa man sa mayor nga luyag matabo ni Acosta ang paglegalize sang forensic laboratory nga gintukod nila sang iya abyan nga si Dr.
Dugang pa ni Garin, kwarta ang kabangdanan kun ngaa ginahimo ini tanan ni Acosta agud ma-justify ang tanan nga korapsyon nga iya nahimo sa iya talatapan.
Ginakabig ni Garin nga harassment kag pamulitika ang ginahimo ni Acosta.
Pagpadulong sa baybayun, may maayo nga epekto sa ikaayong lawas
ILOILO CITY – Ikaw bala ang tuman na ka stress sa trabaho, nadulaan na sang gana sa kabuhi kag nagakinahanglan sang inspirasyon?
mahimo nga ang pagkadto sa beach ang solusyon sa imo problema.
Aaron Hipp, Ph.D., environmental health expert, ang paglakat sa beach nga nagatiniil lang ang makapanubo sang chronic pain, fatigue kag iban pa nga sakit.
Ang paglangoy sa baybayun ang makabulig agud pakigbatu-an ang mga impeksyon sa lawas,bangud ang tubig dagat ang may mataas nga lebel sang mga mineral kaangay sang magnesium, iodine, kag potassium
Makabulig man ini agud makuha ang mga negatibo nga elemento nga nagapagamo sa imo kaisipan kag nagapadugang sang stress.
Ang pagpadulong sa beach ang isa man sa makabulig agud mas mangin produktibo ka sa imo pagbalik sa trabaho kag mas mapagwa mo ang imo creativity.
African Swine Fever-free Visayas, dako nga bentaha para sa hograisers agud magsupply sang baboy sa Luzon kag Mindanao
ILOILO CITY- Suportado sang Office of the Presidential Assistant for Visayas ang lihok sang mga Local Government Unit sa Visayas nga pag-ban sang pagsulod sang live pigs, pork kag pork products gikan sa Luzon kag Mindanao bilang proteksyon gikan sa African Swine Fever.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Assistant Secretary Jonji Gonzales sang Office of the Presidential Assistant for the Visayas, iya ginpahayag nga apisar may pressure sa swine industry gikan sa Luzon kag Mindanao nga nagahingyo nga tugutan ang pagsulod sang baboy sa Visayas, nagapanindugan ini nga dapat istriktuhan gid ang pagpatuman sang nasambit nga ban.
Suno kay Gonzales, wala man sang dapat kabalak-an ang mga pumuluyo sang bilog nga Visayas bangud stable gihapon ang presyo sang baboy nga nagapatimaan sang bastante nga suplay.
Sa Iloilo,suno kay Gonzales,8 billion pesos ang balor sang swine population nga may katumbas nga 16 tubtob 20 billion pesos nga industriya.
Samtang,mahimo naman nga hingalitan sang hograisers sa Visayas ang estado sini nga African Swine Fever free agud magsuplay sang baboy sa Luzon ukon sa Mindanao.
Limpyo Iloilo, igalunsar na sa Pebrero 21
ILOILO CITY- Natalana na nga igalunsar sang Iloilo Provincial Government ang Limpyo Iloilo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor jr, iya ginpahayag nga patigayunon ang launching sang Limpyo Iloilo nga isa ka province-wide clean up sa Pebrero 21,alas kwatro sa hapon nga pangunahan sang Iloilo Provincial Government.
Suno kay Governor Defensor, katuyuan sang programa nga malimpyuhan ang probinsya para sa turismo kag para man sa ikaayong lawas sang pumuluyo ilabi na sa pagbato sa makamamatay nga dengue hemorrhagic fever.
Suno pa sa gobernador, antes ang launching, kinahanglan nga nakapili na ang banwa kag mga barangay sang area nga limpyuhan sa diin may briefing man nga patigayunon sa adlaw mismo sang launching sa alas tres sa hapon.
Dugang pa sang gobernador,pagkatapos sang launching, may patigayunon man nga pag-audit kag tutukan man ang pag-sustain sang programa sa diin sipad-siparon ang tanan nga layi kag ordinansa angot sa solid waste management.
Gina-imbitar naman sang gobernador ang tanan nga pumuluyo nga buylugan ang programa.
Pagtukod sang Children’s Medical Center sa Visayas kag Mindanao, hugot nga ginakampanya ni Rep Defensor
ILOILO CITY -Hugot nga ginakampanya ni Iloilo 3rd District Representative Lorenz Defensor ang pagpatukod sang Children’s Medical Center sa Visayas kag Mindanao.
Lorenz Defensor, iya ginpahayag nga katuyuan sang iya gin-file nga House bill 6140 ang makapatukod sang ospital nga nagadedikar sa kabataan ilabi na ang mga pigado nga indi makasarang nga gastuhan ang ila pagbulong.
Suno kay Defensor, ang nasambit nga mga ospital ang plano nga tukuron sa banwa sang Pavia ukon sa Sta.
Barbara diri sa Visayas samtang sa bahin sang Mindanao ini ang plano nga patindugon sa Davao City.
Sa subong, yara na sa Committee on Health ang nasambit nga hagna kag sa pagpakigsugilanon ni Defensor kay Cong.
Angelina Tan, chairman sang kumitiba, mahimo nga italana ang committee hearing para sa nasambit nga hagna sa Pebrero 24.
Dugang pa ni Defensor, imbitaron sa nasambit nga committee hearing ang mga tiglawas sang Department of Health, mga myembro sang Board of Trustees sang Children’s Medical Center sa Luzon kag iban pa nga stakeholders agud makakuha sang commitment kag maduso pa ang nasambit ng hagna.
Ginabanta nga yara sa P5billion ang budget para sa nasambit nga mga ospital apang ginatugyan na lamang sang kongresista sa Committee on Appropiration ang budget para sa duha ka mga medical centers.
ILOILO CITY- Ginbasol ni anay Department of Health Secretary kag subong 1st district representative Janet Garin ang Department of Health sa sala nga balita tuhoy sa novel Coronavirus nga nangin rason sang pagpanic sang publiko.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Congresswoman Garin, iya ginpahayag nga napaslawan ang ahensya sa pagpamuno ni Sec.
Francisco Duque III nga madul-ong sa publiko ang mga importante nga impormasyon tuhoy sa novel coronavirus scare.
Suno kay Garin,isa sa nangin kakulangan sang ahensiya amo ang indi gilayon nga pagpatigayon sang command conference agud ipahibalo sa publiko ang pinakaulihi nga impormasyon nga ginapagwa sang World Health Organization.
Dugang pa ni Garin, importante man ang pag-appoint sang isa ka speakers bureau nga amo ang magapagwa sa publiko sang mga impormasyon tuhoy sa Novel Coronavirus.
Suno pa kay Garin, wala man gilayo naka -activate sang task force ang Department of Health nga magatutok sa nasambit nga health scare.
Pahayag sang natungdan, ini ang mga rason kun ngaa nagsalangisag ang mga tawo kag nagpanic buying bangud sa pagpati sa naglapta nga mga sala nga impormasyon.
Paano bala nagalaton ang novel coronavirus?
ILOILO – Ginpaathag sang Department of Health kun paano maglaton ang Novel Coronavirus.
Mary Jane Juanico, pinuno sang Infectious Disease Section sang DOH Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga ang 2019 nCOV ang nagalaton halin sa isa ka tawo sa malapit nga distansya kaangay sang iban nga respiratory illnesses kag hilanat.
Suno kay Juanico, ini ang mahimo maglaton pinaagi sa droplets sang bodily fuids kaangay sang laway.
Ini ang madasig nga nagalaton kun naga ubo kag nagapangatsi ang tawo.
Ginpahayag ni Juanico nga ang virus ang mahimo maglawig sa sulod sang 10 ka minutos.
Mahimo man maglaton ang virus sa mga pulungukan ilabi na sa pampubliko nga salakyan sa tion nga ini ang matandog sang tawo nga naga ubo ukon nagapangatsi.
Ang incubation naman sang Coronavirus ang nagalawig sang 14 ka adlaw.
Bureau of Animal Industry, nagahingyo sa publiko nga likawan ang pagkaon sang karne sang mga exotic nga kasapatan
ILOILO CITY – Nagpanugyan ang Bureau of Animal Industry sa publiko nga likawan ang mga sapat nga mahimo magdala sang balatian nga novel coronavirus.
Ini matapos nga ginkumpirma sang Department of Health kahapon, Enero 30, nga nagpositibo ang isa ka 38-anyos nga Chinese nga babayi sa amo nga virus kag subong, nagapabilin ang biktima sa San Lazaro Hospital sa Manila.
John Roel Hilario, regional veterinary quarantine officer VI sang Bureau of Animal Industry Western Visayas, iya ginpahayag nga ang coronavirus ang makit-an sa mga sapat nga makabig exotic kaangay sang civet cats ukon singgarong, kulunaknit, kag camel.
Apang, suno sa opisyal, may iban pa nga sapat nga may yara sang coronavirus kaangay sang ido, kuring, kag kabayo.
Hilario, indi gid maayo sundon ang ginahimo sang mga tawo sa China nga nagakaon sang amo nga mga exotic nga mga sapat.
Magluwas sini, ginpahayag ni Hilario nga kun mahimo, indi man magbakal ukon mag-hunting sang mga layaw nga kasapatan.
Ginahingyo man sang natungdan nga magsunod sa veterinary quarantine regulations.
3 ka tuig nga bata halin sa China nga nakitaan sang sintomas sang Coronavirus, yara na sa maayo nga kahimtangan
ILOILO CITY- Yara na subong sa maayo nga kahimtangan ang tatlo ka tuig nga bata nga lalaki nga gindala sa Western Visayas Medical Center matapos makitaan sang sintomas sang Coronavirus.
Ang biktima ang naghalin sa Guangdong Province sa China kaupod ang iya ginikanan kag nagpadulong sa Iloilo agud kuntani magtambong sa selebrasyon sang Chinese New Year.
Mary Jane Juanico, pinuno sang Infectious Disease Section sang Department of Health Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga ang biktima ang nahilanat rason nga ginpa check up.
May in house doctor naman ang hotel sa Iloilo Business Park nga ila ginatiniran sa diin ini ang una nga ginpaidalom sa check up.
Matapos sini, gindala ang biktima sa Qualimed kag sa ulihi, ginsaylo sa Western Visayas Medical Center.
Juanico, ginkuhaan na ang biktima sang nasopharyngeal kag oropharyngeal swab kag ginahulat na lang ang resulta halin sa Research Institute for Tropical Medicine.
Juanico nga may standard protocol sa infection prevention ang kada hotel kag ospital rason nga wala sang dapat kahangaw-an ang mga guests ukon pasyente nga malatnan sang balatian.
Sa subong, nagakaon na ang biktima kag wala na sang anuman nga sintomas sang Coronavirus.
PHO: Indi dapat magpanic angot sa coronavirus scare
ILOILO -Nagpangabay ang Iloilo Provincial Health office sa publiko nga indi magpanic tuhoy sa novel coronavirus.
Patricia Grace Trabado, chief sang Provincial Health Office, iya ginpahayag nga sa baylo nga magsala, kinahanglan nga mangin vigilante ang publiko.
Suno kay Trabado,ang dapat bantayan sang pumuluyo amo ang mga myembro sang pamilya nga naggikan sa mga pungsod sa diin may yara sang kumpirmado nga kaso sang coronavirus.
Sa tion nga sila ang magpakita sang sintomas sang coronavirus kaangay sang hilanat, pag-ubo,sip-on kag panghatsi, gilayon sila nga dal-on sa health center para matalupangod sang doktor.
May kaangtanan diri, nagpasar naman sang resolusyon si Iloilo Vice Governor Christine Garin nga magamando sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno nga magpatigayon sang information drive batok sa coronavirus.
Ini nga mga ahensya ukon talatapan ang nagalakip sang Provincial health Office, municipal health office kag Department of Education.
Suno kay Garin, ang information drive magatutok sa pagtudlo sa mga tawo sang dapat himuon agud makalikaw sa virus kag sa tion nga matapikan naman, makahibalo sang dapat himuon.
Samtang, gindula sang Department of Health Region 6 ang kahangawa sang publiko tuhoy sa paglapta sang coronavirus sa Region 6.
Mary Jane Juanico, head sang Department of health Region 6 – Infectious Disease Section, iya ginpahayag nga lunsay nagnegatibo ang tatlo ka mga tawo gikan sa China nga nag-abot sa kalibo Interrnational Airport sa aklan nga gin-quarantine matapos nakitaan sang sintomas sang virus.
Suno kay Juanico, magluwas sa tatlo ka mga kaso nga nagnegatibo , wala na sang iban pa nga suspected nga kaso sang novel coronavirus sa rehiyon.
Nahibaluan nga may naglapta nga text message tuhoy sa isa ka guest sa isa ka hotel sa syudad sang Iloilo kag ginpahayag gindala sa isa ka ospital sa syudad apang ini ang ginpanginwala sang nasambit nga hotel kag sang ospital.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Mayor Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga mangin katungdanan ni Dr.
Fortuna nga magpatigayon sang koordinasyon upod sa Department of Health agud mapalab-ot kag mapaathag sa publiko ang tuhoy sa virus.
Suno kay Treñas, activated naman ang mga health centers sa bilog nga syudad.
Suno pa sa iya , padayon man ang ila advisory sa publiko tuhoy sa proper hygiene agud malikawan nga matapikan sang corona virus.
Magluwas diri, may yara man sang ginapanagtag nga leaflets agud madugangan pa gid ang ihibalo sang publiko tuhoy sa nasambit nga health scare.
3 turista sa Aklan, gin-quarantine matapos nakitaan sang sintomas sang hilanat; Aklan PHO, naka red alert status
Cornelio Cuachon sang Aklan Provincial Health Office, nga ang 29 anyos nga Chinese national ang labing una nga ginpaidalom sa hospital quarantine, ginsundan sang tatlo ka tuig nga bata kag ang pinaka-ulihi amo ang 65 nga tigulang.
Cuachon, ang tatlo ka mga turista ang gindala sa Dr.
Tumbukon Memorial Hospital para sa medical examination kun sa diin outpatient na ang 29 anyos nga pasyente samtang nagapabilin naman sa hospital ang 65 anyos nga tigulang.
Cuachon nga ginkuhaan sang blood samples kag specimens ang tatlo kag ini ang ginpadala sa Research Institute for Tropical Medicine sa Manila para sa testing.
Cuachon sa mga pumuluyo nga likawan ang pagsalangisag kag mas makapaayo nga mag-inom sang madamu nga tubig kag multi-vitamins.
Samtang, sa bahin naman sang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines-Aklan, ginpahayag sang manager nga si Engr.
Eusebio Monserrate Jr., nga ang ginhimu sa tatlo ka turista ang protocol sa Kalibo International Airport agud nga indi maglapta ang balati-an.
Monserrate, ang tatlo ka Chinese nationals ang nakitaan sang sintomas sang hilanat apang indi sila tumandok sang Wuhan, China kun sa diin naghalin ang misteryoso nga balati-an.
Monserrate nga antes pa man makapanaog sa eroplano ang mga pasahero, ginapaidalom sila sa inspection paagi sa Thermal scanner agud madali nga mahibalu-an kun positibo sila sa balatian.
Nauna na nga ginpahayag sang World Health organization nga ang virus nga nagatuga sang misteryoso nga balati-an ang ang nalakip sa coronaviruses kasubong sang Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome nga nagpatay sang ginabanta 800 ka tawo kadungan sang outbreak sang 2002 nga nag-umpisa sa China.
ILOILO CITY- Nagdangat sa masobra 7,000 kilograms sang meat products ang nakumpiska sang Bureau of Animal Industry nga ginapatihan kontaminado sang African Swine Flu virus sa Western Visayas.
Hilario, Regional Veterinary Quarantine Officer sang Bureau of Animal Industry Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga ang nasambit nga mga meat products ang nakuha sa mga domestic kag international seaports kag airports.
Hilario,hugot ang ila ginapatuman nga monitoring agud indi makalusot ang mga karne sang baboy nga kontaminado sang African Swine Flu virus.
Hilario, nga sa bulig sang local government unit (LGU) kag sang Department of Agriculture, mas mahapos ang pagbantay agud indi maglapta ang African Swine Flu virus.
Katungdanan naman sang Local Government Unit suno sa beterinaryo ang pagbantay sa mga hotels kag restaurants nga nagagamit sang imported nga baboy sa ila pagluto sang mga pagkaon.
Gilayon naman nga ginalubong ang mga nakumpiska nga karne sang baboy kag wala na ginapaidalom pa sa mga tests.
Nahibaluan nga hugot nga ginadumilian ang pagpasulod sang karne sang baboy halin sa Luzon nga amo ang tuman nga naapektuhan sang African Swine Flu virus.
Kadamuon kag risgo sang hospital wastes sa syudad, dako nga problema
ILOILO CITY- Ginakabig nga dako nga problema sang Syudad sang Iloilo ang nagadamo na gid nga mga hospital wastes apang wala sang treatment kag disposal facility.
Noel Hechanova, pinuno sang City Environment And Natural Resources Office, iya ginpahayag nga ini ang naistoryahan sa ginpatigayon nga meeting upod sa tagdumalahan sang mga ospital sa syudad kag kay Iloilo City Councilor Ely Estante, chairman sang Committee on Environment sa konseho.
Suno kay Hechanova, nag-ugat ang problema matapos gin-suspend sang Environmental Management Bureau ang license to operate sang kompanya nga upod sang syudad sa joint venture nga amo ang may pasilidad para sa hospital wastes treatment and disposal nga nahamtang sa Calajunan, Mandurriao bangud sa kakulang sa requirements.
Sa subong suno kay Hechanova, mabudlay kag magasto ang pagdispose sang mga hospital waste bangud kinahanglan pa ini nga dal-on sa Cebu kag sa Luzon sa diin may pasilidad ang nasambit nga kompaniya.
Nagalaum naman si Hechanova nga mapangitaan sang pamaagi sang technical working group agud mapadasig ang paghatag sang permit sang Environmental Management Bureau agud mangin operational liwat ang nasambit nga pasilidad para sa disposal sang hospital wastes bangud tuman ini ka delikado sa publiko kun indi madumala sang husto.
Vape users,indi pabor sa pag-ban sang e-cigarettes sa publiko
ILOILO CITY- Indi pabor ang mga vape users sa pag ban sang e-cigarettes sa publiko.
Matandaan nga ginpahayag ni Presidente Rodrigo Duterte nga i-ban sini ang pag-gamit kag importation sang e-cigarretes bangud sa halit nga matuga sini sa ikaayong lawas.
Magluwas sini, ginmando man ni Duterte sa mga otoridad nga arestuhon ang magamit sang vape kag e-cigarettes.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Junjun Talita, vape user, iya ginpahayag nga tuig 2016 pa siya nag umpisa sa pagamit sang e-cigarettes.
Suno kay Talita, sang una, naga sigarilyo ini, apang sang nagwa na ang e-cigarettes, nagbaylo na ini.
Ginpahayag ni Talita nga nag umpisa ini sa pagamit sang gamay nga vape, tubtub sang dako nga mas mahal ang presyo.
Indi suno sa natungdan mahapos ang pagamit sang e-cigarettes bangud mahimo ini makatuga sang disgrasya ilabi na kun sala ang pagamit sang battery.
Para kay Talita, indi tuman ka delikado ang e-cigarettes kun ipaanggid sa sigarilyo bangud wala ini sang nicotine kag flavorings lang.
Nahibaluan nga may isa ka ka kaso sang electronic cigarette or vaping-associated lung injury (EVALI) nga na- rekord sang Department of Health sa Central Visayas.
Mga opisyal sang Kauswagan, City Proper, nag-commit sa Dugong Bombo 2019
ILOILO CITY- Indi lamang sa barangay kundi sa bilog nga komunidad may ginatungdan nga papel ang isa ka punong barangay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong Barangay Woodie Delariarte sang Brgy.
Kauswagan, Iloilo City Proper, ini ang prinsipyo nga nagagiya sa iya agud magpakigbahin sa Dugong Bombo 2019.
Suno kay Delariarte, indi dapat limitado lang sa iya barangay ang pagbulig kundi sa tanan.
Ginpahayag ni Delariarte nga paagi sa pagdonar sang dugo, madamo siya sang masugpunan sang kabuhi nga makabig serbisyo niya sa katawhan.
Gin-agda man ni Delariarte ang publiko ilabi na ang kaangay niya nga mga opisyal sang barangay nga magpakigbahin sa Dugong Bombo 2019 sa Nobyembre 16,2019 sa Iloilo Science and Technology University sa Burgos St.
6-anyos nga bata sa Janiuay, patay bangud sa dengue
ILOILO CITY- Patay ang isa ka anom ka tuig nga bata nga taga- Janiuay, Iloilo bangud sa dengue hemorraghic fever.
Ang biktima amo si John Matthew Jabonite, grade-1 pupil sang brgy.
Sharon Jabonite, iloy sang bata, iya ginpahayag nga Urinary Tract Infection lang ang una nga finding nga ginabatyag sang iya bata apang sang ulihi, nadiskubrehan nga nagasuprir na ini sang dengue.
Suno sa iloy, antes napatay ang iya anak, natughungan pa ini sang dugo.
Nagadeliryo man ang biktima sa diin nagapamilin-bilin na ini antes ini ginbawian sang kabuhi.
Nagapati ang iloy nga sa ila eskwelahan posible nakagat ang bata sang lamok nga nagadala sang nasambit nga balatian.
Nahibaluan nga sa Cavite naga-istar ang pamilya sang biktima sa diin didto man ini ginbawian sang kabuhi apang gindala lang pauli ang bangkay sini sa Janiuay, Iloilo.
Panit sang talong, manggaranon sa antioxidant
ILOILO – Ano ang paborito mo nga luto sang malaba, may yara man sang mabilog bilog nga talong?
Kun ano man ina nga pamaagi sang pagluto sigurado nga may yara ini sang maayo nga epekto ko madamo nga sustansya nga mahatag sa aton lawas.
Suno kay Reynaldo Mundo, isa ka Agriculturist ang talong manggaranon sa dietary fiber nga makabulig sa pagpa regular sang pagpagwa sang higko sa aton lawas.
Ang panit sang talong ang may yara man sang antioxidants kaangay sang nasunin nga nagabulig sa pagtapna sang mga free radicals nga naga sulod sa aton nga lawas.
Dugang sang natungdan kabaylo sang mga processed foods nga masami naton ginakaon sa pamahaw mas manami nga kan-on ang talong bangud may yara ini sang madamo nga sustansya kag mineral nga makabulig sa aton nga ikaayong lawas.
ILOILO – Isa sa pinaka importante nga sahog sang manamit nga sud-an kaangay sang sinigang, dinuguan kag iban pa kun wala sang katumbal.
Ano bala ang mga benepisyo sang katumbal sa aton nga lawas?
Philip Nino Tan-Gatue isa ka Intergrative Medicine Expert, ang katumbal makabulig sa pagpanubo sang blood cholesterol,maayo man kun ikaw may sip-on, nagapabaskog man ini sang aton nga resistensya batok sa mga balatian.
Pwede man ini nga himuon nga massage oil agud makapaayo sang mga sakit sa aton nga mga muscles kag kalamnan.
Pag-inom sang kape kag softdrinks, nagapalala sang Hyperacidity
Paano bala ma likawan ang Hyperacidty ukon ang tuman nga kasakit sang tiyan bangud sa acid.
Suno kay Dr.Robert Tan isa ka Gastroenterologist, ang acid isa ka importante nga komponent para sa aton nga lawas bangud ini ang naga bulig sa pag tunaw sang mga ginkaon naton.
Defense man naton ang acid sa mga indi manami nga pagkaon nga aton nakaon.
Apang kun tuman na kadamo ang acid sa aton lawas may yara na ini sang malain nga epekto.
Suno kay Tan, agud malikawan ang Hyperacidty likawan ang pag inom sang kape, gatas kag softdrinks.
Dugang sang natungda, nagakadapat man likawan ang pagpanigarilyo, pag inom sang makahululubog nga ilimnon, pagkaon asng matambok kag makahang nga mga pagkaon.
Nagpanugyan ang doktor nga gilayon nga magpakonsulta sa mga espesyalista agud mahatagan sang nagaka igo nga pagbulong.
Garin: P22 million nga para kuntani sa dengue test kits,gin -usikan lang sa wala pulos nga mga seminars
ILOILO CITY- Ginkaakig ni anay Health Secretary kag subong Iloilo 1st District Rep.
Janette Garin ang iya natukiban nga pag-usik sang P22 million nga budget nga gintigana para sa pagbakal sang dengue test kits.
Sa exclusive interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Rep.
Garin, iya ginpahayag nga gin-gamit ang nasambit nga pondo para sa wala sang pulos nga mga meetings kag seminar.
Suno kay Garin, masubo panumdumon nga ang pondo nga para kuntani sa mga biktima sang dengue sa mga lugar sa pungsod nga may yara sang dengue outbreak ang gin-uyangan lang.
Suno kay Garin, kulang sa qualifications si Janairo bangud indi man ini isa ka infectious disease specialist.
Samtang, base sa mga dokumento nagikan sa bids and awards committee, gintuad ni Garin nga kasunod sang appointment kay Janairo, na-divert man ang nasambit nga pondo sa Calabarzon.
Suno pa kay Garin, matapos ginkansela ang pagbakal kuntani sa mga dengue test kits nga nagabalor sang P22 million, gin-gamit ang pondo para sa meetings kag seminars kun sa diin ginkuha sang national dengue task force ang serbisyo sang Vireo Loadworks Inc., paagi sa experts panel meetings agud magpatigayon sang monitoring sang dengue vaccines kag vaccine preventable diseases.
Naghingyo naman si Garin sa Department of Health nga hingyuon sa Commission on Audit nga magpatigayon sang special audit sa mga transactions sang Center for Health Development sang Calabarzon bangud sa paggamit sang pondo sa wala pulos nga butang.
Nahibaluan nga sa ginpatigayon nga 2020 budget hearing para sa budget sang Department of Health sang ginbuyagyag ni Garin ang nasambit nga kontrobersiya.
Masami nga paghuragok may malain nga epekto sa lawas
May kaupod ka bala sa balay nga masami naga huragok?
Ano bala ang rason kun ngaa naga huragok ang tawo?
Patrick Moral isa ka pulmonologist posible nga gutok ang alagyan sang ginhawa sang isa ka tawo rason kun ngaa nabudlayan mag gwa ang hangin kun sya ang nagakatulog.
May yara man sang kaangtanan ang kabug-aton sang isa ka tawo.
Suno kay Moral, kun mabug-at ang isa ka tawo dako ang posibilidad nga ma bara ang hangin bangud sa madamo nga tambok nga yara sa parte sang liog.
Dako man ang tsansa nga mag suprer sang hypertension ang tawo nga masami naga huragok.
Nagpanugyan ang doktor nga nagakadapat magpa konsulta sa doktor agud mahatagan sang insakto nga aksyon ang nasambit nga problema.
Mga rason sang pag-angkon sang asthma sa mga kabataan, aton patpaton
Ang asthma isa ka common nga balatian sa kabataan.
Apang kabalo ka bala kun ano ang rason sang asthma kag kun paano mo ini malikawan para sa imo nga kabataan?
Suno sa National Asthma Council sang Australia, isa ka gina tunaan sang asthma amo kun may yara sang nagapanigarilyo sa sulod sang balay.
Isa pa ka rason amo kun ang nagapanigarilyo ang isa ka iloy samtang ini ang nagabusong.
Dugang pa nga rason amo ang viral respiratory infections kaangay sang sip-on, exposure sa allergens kaangay sang yab-ok, bulbol nagikan sa mga hinuptan kag pollen, exposure sa mala kag malamig nga hangin, pagkadlaw kag strong emotions, pila ka mga bulong kaangay sang aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs kag Echinacea.
Nagpanugyan ang National Asthma Council nga mas maayo nga gilayon nga magpa konsulta sa doktor agud mahatagan sang insakto nga impormasyon kun paano ma tapna ang paglala sang asthma sang inyo mga kabataan.
Paglingin sang ulo, madamo sang balatian nga posible maangkon
Isaac David Ampil II ang masami nga pagsakit sang imon ulo may yara sang nagkalain-lain nga rason.
Isa sa pinaka common nga rason amo ang problema sa mata.
Suno kay Ampil posible nga may yara sang depekto ang imo mata rason kun ngaa nabudlayan ini mag adjust kag naga tuga sang paglingin sang ulo.
Posible man nga may yara ka sang sakit sa puso, anemia ukon low blood ka kun sa diin nabuhinan ang oxygen nga naga saka sa imo nga utok.
Ang pinaka seryoso amo ang may posibilidad nga simptomas ini sang problema sa utok.
Nagpanugyan si Ampil nga kun masami naga lingin ang imo ulo, gilayon nga mag kadto sa imo nga doctor agud mahatagan sang nagakadapat nga diagnosis.
San Juan, Molo, ginapat-ud nga wala sang mangin dengue casualty sa ila barangay
ILOILO CITY- Wala nagapabaya ang opisyales kag pumuluyo sang San Juan, Molo, Iloilo City agud batuan ang pagduging sang dengue hemorrhagic fever sa ila lugar.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Punong barangay Pascual Espinosa IV sang San Juan, Molo, iya ginpahayag nga nalakip ang ila lugar sa may pinakamataas nga numero sang kaso sang dengue sa syudad kag indi na nila luyag madugangan ukon may mapatay bangud sa balatian.
Suno kay Espinosa, regular ang ila pagpatigayon sang clean-up drive agud mamintinar ang kalimpyo kag agud wala sang maistaran kag maitlugan ang mga lamok.
Ginpahayag sang opisyal nga aktibo man ang committee on health sang ila barangay council sa pagpangita sang mga pamaagi agud batuan ang makamamatay nga dengue.
Pagkaon sang matam-is, nagapataas sang tsansa sang obesity, high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes kag heart disease sa mga bata
Paborito gid sang mga bata ang mga matam-is nga pagkaon kaangay sang dulce, ice cream kag madamo pa.
Nagakabalaka ka bala nga may malain ini nga epekto sa ikaayong lawas sang bata?
May yara gid man bala ini malain nga epekto sa ila nga ikaayong lawas?
Svetlana Pomeranets, 25 gramo ukon anom ka kutsarita lang sang sugar ang mahimo makaon kag 8 ounce naman sang sugar sweetened nga ilimnon kada semana ang mainom sang bata nga naga edad 2 tubtob 18 anyos.
Dugang nya, ang mga bata nga naga edad manubo sa duha ka tuig ang indi pwede magkaon sang matam-is nga pagkaon.
Ginpahayag ni Pomeranets nga ang mga pagkaon nga matam-is ang nagapataas sang tsansa sang obesity, high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes kag heart disease sa mga bata.
Nagpanugyan si Pomeranets nga wala sang malain sa pagkaon sang matam-is bangud normal lang nga nanamian ang mga kabataan sang mga nasambit nga pagkaon apang mas maayo kun mas madamo nga masustansya nga pagkaon kaangay sang prutas kag utan ang ila ginakaon.
San Enrique Mayor Trixie Fernandez, napilian nga presidente sang LMP-Iloilo
Ginpierde ni Mayor Fernandez si Mayor Jett Rojas sang Ajuy, Iloilo para sa nasambit nga posisyon.
Nakakuha si Fernandez sang 20 ka boto samtang 18 naman ka boto ang nakuha ni Rojas gikan sa mga kaangay nga alkalde sa bilog nga probinsiya sa ginpatigayon nga eleksyon sa Casa Real, Iloilo City.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Mayor Fernandez, bilang presidente sang League of Municipalities of the Philippines- Iloilo Chapter, iya ginpasiguro ang bug-os nga pagsuporta sa liderato ni Iloilo Governor Arthur Defensor Jr.
Ginpasalig man niya ang isa ka aktibo kag masaligan nga League of Municipalities of the Philippines- Iloilo Chapter.
Lubi may yara madamo nga nga benepisyo sa aton ikaayong lawas
Kun magkaon ka sang lubi ukon niyog, ano ang imu paborito nga parte?
ang iya juice ukon ang iya gata nga gina sahog sa sud-an?
Kun ano kadako ang niyog amo man kadako kag kadamo nga nutrisyon ang sarang mo makuha sa ini nga prutas.
Indi kaangay sang iban nga prutas nga mataas ang carbohydrates, ang niyog may yara sang mas madamo nga fats.
Suno kay Anne Danahy, isa ka registered dietician ang lubi ang may yara sang protein kag mataas ang manganese sini nga makabulig sa aton nga bone health, metabolism kag carbohydrates.
Manggaranon man ini sa copper kag iron nga maayo sa aton red blood cells, selenium kag importante amo ang antioxidant nga makaprotekta sa aton cells.
Madamo pa nga mga benipisyo kag nutrisyon ang sarang naton makuha sa lubi, humalin sa unod tubtob sa duga.
Senador Gordon,may pahanumdom sa mga ospital tuhoy sa dugo para sa mga dengue patients
Nagpahanumdom si Senator Richard Gordon sa mga ospital nga ginabaligya ang dugo nga ginpadala sang Philippine Red Cross National Blood Services.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Senator Gordon nga chairman man sang Philippine Red Cross, iya ginpahayag nga libre ang ginapadala nila nga dugo gani libre man dapat ini nga ihatag sa mga dengue patients.
Suno sa senador, wala man sang pagabayaran nga processing fee ang pasyente.
Matandaan nga sang damlag lang nagpadala sang 165 units sang frozen blood products ang Philippine Red Cross agud i- augment ang suplay sang dugo sa Western Visayas matapos ginpaidalom sa dengue outbreak ang bilog nga rehiyon.
Magluwas sa dugo, nagpadala man ang Philippine Red Cross sang emergency medical tents sa Western Visayas.
Samtang,ginpat-ud man ni Gordon nga indi lamang dugo ang focus sang Red Cross.
Suno sa iya,gin-alerto na man ang mga Red Cross volunteers nga manguna sa community cleanup drives agud matapna ang pagdamo sang kaso sang dengue.
Aktibidad sang mga kabataan sa eskwelahan, limitahan sang DepEd
Limitahan sang Department of Education ang aktibidad sang mga kabataan sa eskwelahan bilang kabahin sang kampanya agud matapna ang pagduging sang dengue hemorrhagic fever.
Ini matapos nga ginpaidalom sa dengue outbreak ang bilog nga Western Visayasv sa diin kapin 19,000 na ang numero sang mga biktima sang dengue kag kapin 100 na ang patay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Department of Education Region 6 Assistant Regional Director Victor Degracia, iya ginpahayag nga naabisuhan na ang tanan nga buluthuan nga indi pagpahanugutan nga maghampang ang mga kabataan paglampas sang alas-3 sa hapon pasaka agud indi ang mga ini ma- expose sa lamok.
Suno kay Degracia, dapat sundon man sang mga eskwelahan ang panugyan sang Department of Health para maproteksyunan ang mga kabataan gikan sa kagat sang lamok kaangay sang pagsuksok sang malaba nga medyas.
Ginpahayag sang natungdan nga padayon man ang pagbutang sa mga treated nets ukon screen sa mga classrooms agud indi makasulod ang mga lamok.
Importante man suno kay Degracia nga mapabilin nga matinlo ang palibot sang ekswelahan agud wala sang pamugaran ang lamok nga nagadala sang dengue.
Samtang, ginpahayag naman ni Degracia, nga magapadayon ang regular nga pagpatigayon sang Brigada Kontra Dengue sa tanan nga mga buluthuan sa rehiyon.
Duga sang bombay kag dahon sang bayabas solusyon sa naga-upos nga buhok
Nagaproblema ka bala sa nagalala nga falling hair ukon pagkala-unot sang buhok?
Kun manghusay ka bala madamo nga buhok ang nagasunod?
Kabalo ka bala kun ano ang rason sang pagkala-unot sang buhok?
Dugang pa ni Marquez, mas dako ang posibilidad sapagkala-unot sang buhok sa mga estudyante bangud masami sila nga stress sa eskwelahan.
Nagpanugyan si Marquez nga mas maayo nga magp kunsulta sa dermatologist agud mahatagan sang naga-igo nga pagbulong.
Apang kabalo ka bala nga may yara sang mas mahapos kag simple nga pama-agi agud amat-amat nga masolusyunan ang pagkala-unot sang imo buhok.
Marquez nga ang duga sang bombay kag dahon sang bayabas ang sarang makabulig sa pag solbar sa pagkala-unot sang imo nga buhok.
Ang bombay may yara sang madamo nga calcium, magnesium kag iron nga may maayo nga epekto sa aton nga ikaayong lawas kag sa aton nga buhok.
Samtang ang bayabas naman ang manggaranon sa B complex, bitamina C nga nagabulig sa aton nga immune system kag nagapabaskog sa aton nga buhok.
Ano bala ang kinalain sang pagsakit sang ulo kag Migraine?
Apang kabalo ka bala kun ini isa lang ka simple nga headache ukon ini ang isa na ka Migraine.
Suno kay Batara migraine ini kun mabatyagan mo nga naga pitik ang ugat sa sulod sang imo ulo.
Dugang sang natungdan lain ini sa normal nga headache kun sa diin nagabug-at ang ulo sang pasyente.
May yara pa sang iban nga sintomas ang migraine nga indi mo makita ukon mabatyagan sa isa ka normal nga headache kaangay sang pagkalingin sang ulo,photophobia ukon ang paglikaw sa suga.
Suno sa iya, lain ang migraine sa normal nga sakit sang ulo bangud episodic ini ukon mabatyagan mo sang pila ka beses sa isa ka tion.
May yara sang twice a year kag twice a week kag ang pinakamalala amo nga kun ini ang adlaw-adlaw mo nga mabatyagan.
Nagpanugyan si Batara nga kun adlaw-adlaw kag indi mo na maagwantahan ang kasakit, mas maayo kun magkadto ka sa imo nga doktor agud ma resetahan ka sang naga kaigo nga bulong.
Retired American boxer Floyd Mayweather , kumpirmado nga magasaksi sa hampang ni Manny Pacquiao kag Keith Thurman
Madumduman nga masami nga makita sa ringside ang retired boxer sa mga hampang ni Pacquiao kaangay sang away ni boxing champ batok kay Jessie Vargas sa Thomas & Mack Center sang 2016 kag Adrien Broner sang Enero sini lang nga tuig.
Nahibaluan nga nagapabilin nga bukas si Pacquiao kag training consultant Freddie Roach sa rematch batok kay Mayweather matapos ang ulihi nila nga away sang 2015 apang sa subong mas nangin kuntento ang retired american boxer sa iya nga kabuhi sang ini ang nag retiro pagkatapos sang iya ulihi nga away sang 2017 batok sa UFC star nga so Conor McGregor.
Nasaksikan sang fans ang nangin kabuhi ni Mayweather sa iya nga social media kun sa diin nya ginapost ang pictures sang iya byahe sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ang ini nga mga pagkaon masami naton ginakaon bangud manamit ini kag saboroso.
Apang sa pihak sang saboroso nga damil sang ini nga mga pagkaon, ini man ang may yara sang malain nga epekto sa aton ikaayong lawas .
Smith, myembro sang Nutrition Wellness Educator Certification Pane, ang Pizza, Tsokolate kag French Fries ang tatlo sa mga pagkaon nga dapat naton likawan.
Nagapanguna ang Pizza nga may yara sang madamo nga calories kag saturated fats.
Suno kay Smith, mas maayo kun ang pizza nga may yara sang manipis nga crust, may vegetables ukon utan kag light cheese ang imo kan-on.
Ikaduha ang French fries, ang gamay nga order sang french fries may yara sang 230 calories kag mas maayo ang baked kompara sa fried nga french fries bangud sa mantika nga indi man maayo sa aton ikaayong lawas.
Ikatatlo amo ang tsokolate nga paborito sang mga bata, ang isa ka bar sang tsokolate ang may yara sang madamo nga kalamay, unhealthy fats kag preservatives.
Kun luyag mo gid magkaon sang tsokolate pilion mo ang dark chocolate bangud ini ang makapanubo sang blood pressure, makapaayo sang blood flow sa imo utok kag heart, kag naga protekta sang aton nga mga cells.
Maayo man ang tsokolate nga may yara sang cocoa content halin 70% tubtob 85%.
Ang ini nga mga pagkaon matuod nga manamit kag saboroso apang mas maayo nga likawan naton ang masami nga pagkaon sini agud mangin healthy kita.
‘State of Calamity’ bangud sa dengue, posible nga ideklarar sa Syudad sang Iloilo
Ginalantaw sang Iloilo City Government ang posibilidad sang pagdeklarar sang state of calamity sa Syudad sang Iloilo kasunod sang pagtaas pa sang kaso sang dengue nga naglab-ot na sa 618 kag 7 ang patay.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo kay Iloilo City Mayor Jerry Treñas, iya ginpahayag nga naga-coordinate na ini sa Iloilo City Health Office sa posibilidad nga irekomendar ang state of calamity sa syudad.
Suno kay Treñas, mahimo man nga maistoryahan ini sa regular session sang Iloilo City Council buas nga adlaw sang Martes,Hulyo 16.
Ginpasiguro naman sang alkalde nga padayon ang ila pagpatigayon sang mga programa kag aktibidad agud batuan ang pagduging pa gid sang dengue sa Syudad sang Iloilo.
Western Visayas, ginpaidalom na sa ‘Dengue Outbreak’
Ginpaidalom na sa dengue outbreak ang bug-os nga Western Visayas.
Ini ang kasunod sang pagpanguna na sang Rehiyon 6 sang may pinakamadamo nga kaso sang dengue hemorrhagic fever sa bilog nga Pilipinas nga naglab-ot na sa 14,230 kag 81 na ang napatay.
Sa ginpatigayon nga video conference sa talatapan sang Department of Health Region 6, ginrekomendar ni Dr.
Ini ang gilayon man nga gin-aprubahan sang tiglikom.
Nahibaluan nga nagapanguna ang Iloilo nga may 5,435 ka kaso sang dengue; ginasundan sang Negros Occidental nga may 3,004 , Capiz nga may 2,202; Aklan nga may 1,567 ; Iloilo City nga may 618; Bacolod City nga may 504; Guimaras nga may 493; kag Antique nga may 407.
Samtang, sa mortality rate naman, nagapanguna ang Negros Occidental nga may 21 ka patay; ginasundan sang Iloilo Province nga may 20; Capiz nga may 14; Iloilo City nga may 6; Aklan nga may 4; kag may tagduha ka narekord nga patay sa Guimaras kag Bacolod City.
Bombo Radyo Iloilo, na break ang kaugalingon nga record nga may pinakamadamo nga naserbisyuhan sa Bombo Medico
ILOILO CITY – Na break sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo ang kaugalingon nga rekord nga may pinakamadamo nga naserbisyuhan subong nga tuig humalin sang nag umpisa ang Bombo Medico.
Nahibaluan nga naglab-ot sa 7,573 ka mga pasyente ang nahatagan sang bulig medical, optical kag dental sa ginpatigayon nga Bombo Medico 2019 sa Iloilo Science and Technology University sa Burgos St., Lapaz, Iloilo City.
Ini ang mas mataas kun ipanggid sa narekord sang naligad nga tuig nga nagdangat lang sa 7, 348.
Suno kay Bombo Roger Gencianeo, Station Manager sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo iya ginpahayag nga madamo na naman sang nabuligan nga mgaa pumuluyo ang Bombo Medico 2019 nga ginhiwat sa Iloilo Science and Technology University (ISAT-U) sa Burgos Lapaz Iloilo City sa diin nakabatun sang serbisyo edical, optical, dental, kag iban pa ng special services ang mga nagkaladto.
Suno kay Bombo Roger, sa sini nga tuig mas nagadamo ang mga tawo nga nagkadto agud mag-avail man sang nagkalain-lain nga serbisyo.
Makita man suno sa iya ang kalipay sa nawong sang mga kabataan partikular na sang nagpatigayun sang pahampang kag nakabatun sang toys ang mga kabataan nagikan man sa Philippine Army nga isa sa ma nangin partners sang Bombo Radyo Iloilo sa nasambit nga aktibidad.
Ginpasalamatan man ni Bombo Roger ang tanan nga mga doctors, volunteer nurses, assistants, kag iban pa nga nangin partners sang Bombo Radyo agud mangin isa na naman ka madinalag-on nga aktibidad ang Bombo Medico 2019.
Ang kadamuon sang mga tawo nga nagkadto sa nasambit nga aktibidad ang nagapakita suno kay Bombo Roger sang pagpalangga sang tagsa-tagsa sa Bombo Radyo nga nangin kabahin na sang ila pagpangabuhi.
Diesel, posible maglab-ot na sa P170/L sa masunod nga semana
Posible nga magdangat na sa P165 ang presyo sang kada litro sang regular diesel samtang P170 naman ang kada litro sang premium diesel sa masunod nga semana.
Ini kun matabo ang panibag-o nga price hike sandig sa trading sang Mean of Platts Singapore (MOPS) sa nagligad nga apat ka adlaw (March 30 to April 2).
Kun basehan ang amo nga trading, may oil industry sources nga nagasiling nga madugangan ang presyo sang diesel sang P17 tubtub sa P19 per liter.
Sa pihak nga bahin, mahimo naman madugangan sang P3-P5 ang presyo sang kada litro sang gasolina.
Kun matabo, magadangat na ang presyo sang super premium, premium, kag regular varieties sa P120, P117, kag P110 per liter.
Gatchalian, nagpanawagan nga magbutang sang price cap sa LPG
Ginapanawagan sa Department of Energy (DOE) kag sa Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) nga magpatuman sang price cap sa liquified petroleum gas (LPG).
Sherwin Gatchalian, ang nagahinampot nga pagsaka sa presyo sa LPG ang mahimo makaapekto gid sang daku sa mga balay kag sa magagmay nga mga negosyo.
Ginhingyo man sang senador sa duha ka ahensya nga siguruhon ang suplay kag mag-monitor sang istrikto sa market pricing agud nga mapatuman dayon ang price ceiling kun indi pa man kinahanglanon ang saka sa presyo.
Una na nga ginklaro sang LPG Marketers Association sa publiko nga wala nila ginalantaw nga kulangon ang suplay sang LPG sa pungsod sa masunod nga mga binulan, apang may ginaantisipar lang nga pagpanglakaak sa presyo.
Sa ila updated data, gina-project nga makalawig pa sang 35 tubtub 45 ka adlaw ang suplay nga may improvement ipaanggid sa data nga ginpresentar sang ahensya.
Ginbasehan sang grupo ang nagsaka man nga balayran sa barko bangud sa paglain sang mga ruta sa Middle East bangud sang gyera, rason nga nagalayo ang alagyan via United States, Africa, Canada, kag Australia.#
‘Ano baboy mo, gold?’ Pork prices, mahimo maglapaw sa P500/kilo sa ‘worst-case scenario’
Nagpaandam ang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga posible maglab-ot sa P580 ang presyo sang kada kilo sang baboy kun magpadayon pa sa pagtimbuok ang presyo sang gatong.
Sa Senate hearing, ginpaathag ni Agriculture Assistant Secretary U-Nichols Manalo nga ang gyera sa Middle East mahimo makaapekto man sa gasto sa feeds rason nga mapataas ang farmgate prices sang livestock.
Ginaantisipar man gani suno sa opisyal nga magpanirado na lang anay ang smallholders ukon magpangita anay sang iban nga negosyo.
Kun magpadayon pa ang gyera tubtub sa Agusto kag maglab-ot ang presyo sang langis sa average nga $200 kada bariles, ang posibilidad suno sa ahensya amo nga magadangat man ang retail prices sang local pork ham sa P558.10 per kilo samtang P588.10 per kilo naman ang pork belly.
Kun matabo, 59% ang isaka sini halin sa average retail prices nga na-rekord antes ang gyera nga P350 tubtub P370 per kilo.
Magluwas sa presyo sang baboy, mahimo man magsaka sa P324.64 per kilo ang retail prices sa manok halin sa P200 per kilo nga presyo antes ang gyera.
Kun basehan naman ang Samahang Industriya ng Agrikultura (SINAG), posible nga indi na malab-ot ang “worst-case scenario” bangud sang suspensyon sang excise tax sa produktong petrolyo.
Una naman nga ginpaathag ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
nga apektado sang gyera ang presyo sang pagkaon bangud sa pagsaka sa logistics kag input costs ilabi na ang urea-based fertilizer.
Ang nagapanguna nga ginakabalak-an sang DA amo ang mga pagpamomba sa Strait of Hormuz nga isa ka importante nga alagyan sang fertilizer supply.#
Panibag-o nga presyo sang produktong petrolyo, lauman buwas nga adlaw, Abril 7
Lauman ang panibag-o nga presyo sang produktong petrolyo epektibo alas 6 buwas nga adlaw, Abril 7.
Ini na ang ika-13 nga semana nga pagtaas sang gasolina.
Ini nga pagtaas sang gatong kaangot sa gihapon sa nagapadayon nga nagalala nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Sa gasolina magataas sang P5.90 kada litro Sa Diesel magataas sang P19.
80 kada litro Sa Kerosene magataas sang P9.10 kada litro
DepDev, nagpaandam nga mahimo magtimbuok sa double digit ang inflation sa Pilipinas kun maglab-ot na sa $200 per barrel ang global oil prices
Nagpaandam ang Department of Economy, Planning and Development (DEPDev) nga mahimo magtimbuok sa double digit ang inflation sa Pilipinas kun ang global oil prices maglab-ot na sa $200 per barrel bangud sa nagalala nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Suno sa ahensya, sa “most severe scenario” possible mag-accelerate ang inflation sa tunga sang 11.4 percent kag 14.3 percent sa bulan sang Abril.
Sa bilog nga tuig, kun indi magnubo sa $200 per barrel ang oil price, ang inflation mahimo mag-average sa 7.3 percent tubtob 8.6 percent nga lapaw sa target range sang gobyerno kag possible nga makalab-ot pa ini sa 14.3%.
Suno kay Socioeconomic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan, ini nga prediksyon ang nagapakita sang vulnerability sang ekonomiya sang Pilipina sa external shocks, particularl sa energy, nga may dako nga implikasyon para sa transport costs, food prices, kag pangkabilugan nga gasto sang mga konsumidor.
Ginpasugtan sang Department of Energy (DOE) ang temporaryo nga paggamit sang lower-grade petroleum products.
DA, ginaduso ang pagpatuman sang price cap sa mga retailers nga nagabaligya sang imported nga bugas
Ginaduso sa karon sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pagpatuman sang price cap sa mga retailers nga nagabaligya sang imported nga bugas.
Ini agud mapunggan ang indi insakto nga pagsaka sang presyo sini sa merkado.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., nagalab-ot na sa P55 tubtob P58 kada kilo ang presyo sang imported nga bugas sa pila ka mga retailers.
Suno sa ahensya nga ginahimo nga rason sang pila ka negosyante ang global oil shock kag krisis sa Middle East agud magpataas man ang mga ini sang presyo.
Ginpahayag ni Laurel nga indi dapat maglab-ot sa amo nga presyo ang nasambit nga produkto bangud wala pa nagataas ang gasto sa pag-import sini.
Bilang temporaryo nga tikang agud malikawan ang pagsaka sang presyo, magasumiter ang DA sang pormal nga rekomendasyon sa Malacañang para sa implementasyon sang price cap magapanagtag man ang ahensya sang bugas nga ginabaligya sa P45 tubtob P48 kada kilo.
NEW RECORD LOW: Philippine Peso, nagluya pa sa 59.87 vs $1
Mas nagluya pa ang balor sang Philippine Peso batok sa US Dollar samtang nagalala ang epekto sa global market nga resulta na sang giyera sa Middle East.
Nagtakop ang trading kahapon, Marso 16, nga P59.87 ang baylo sang kada US dollar nga amo ang bag-o nga historic low ukon pinakamaluya nga balor sang Philippine Peso sa bilog nga maragtas sang pungsod.
Antes sini, nagbukas sa 59.71 ang local currency, kag nakalab-ot pa ang trading kahapon sa 59.95 antes ang pagsira sini sa P59.87.
Antes sang gyera sa Middle East nga nag-umpisa sang Pebrero 28, nakabangon-bangon pa ang Peso sa P57.665 sang Pebrero 27 nga amo man ang katapusan nga adlaw sang trading antes nag-ibwal ang tensyon.
Sandig sa report sang Bloomberg, nag-intervene na ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) sa currency market paagi sa pagbaligya sang dollars agud nga madepensahan ang peso antes pa ini magluya pa gid kag makalab-ot sa 60-to-the-dollar level.
nga indi sini luyag nga makalapaw ang peso sa 60 pesos sa kada isa ka dolyar, bangud kun magluya ang balor sang Peso, pat-od nga magatimbuok na naman ang balayran sa utang.#
DOE, nag-anunsyo liwat sang bag-o nga pagtaas sang presyo sang gatong sa sini nga semana
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga ginapaabot liwat ang pagsaka sang presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo sa sini nga semana.
Ini kasunod sang fuel price adjustments bangud sang nagapadayon nga tensyon sa tunga sang Iran, United States, kag Israel.
Para sa Marso 17 tubtub 23, 2026, amo ini ang ginaproject nga presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo:
Gasolina: magasaka sang ₱12.90 tubtub ₱16.60 kada litro
Diesel: magasaka sang ₱20.40 tubtub ₱23.90 kada litro
Kerosene: magasaka sang ₱6.90 tubtub ₱8.90 kada litro
Bangud sa sini nga sunod-sunod nga pagtaas sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo, nagpahanumdom ang Department of Energy sa publiko nga magplano sang maayo sa ila pagbiyahe kag paggamit sang petrolyo agud malikawan ang sobra nga gasto.
DA kag SRA, nagakoordinar na sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya sang gobyerno agud masiguro ang nagakaigo nga suplay sang gatong kag abono
Pormal na nga nagkoordinar ang Department of Agriculture kag Sugar Regulatory Administration sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya sang gobyerno, ilabi na sa Department of Energy, agud masiguro ang nagakaigo nga suplay sang produktong petrolyo kag fertilizer.
Ini agud indi maparalisa ang produksyon sang kalamay sa pungsod kag agud maprotektahan ang mga mangunguma batok sa posible nga kakulangan kag pagsaka sang presyo sang gatong kag abono bangod sa padayon nga gyera sa Middle East.
Ginkumpirmar man ni SRA Administrator Pablo Luis Azcona nga ginpabutyag na nila kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
ang sitwasyon agud pormal nga mapalab-ot sa DOE ang ginakabalak-an sang bug-os nga industriya sang kalamay.
Ginpabutyag naman ni Laurel nga handa ang gobyerno nga magbulig kag indi nila pagtugutan nga ma-delay ang operasyon sang sektor.
Dugang pa sini, indi lamang ang mga producer sang kalamay ang ila protektahan kundi pati man ang bug-os nga suplay sang gatong kag abono para sa tanan nga mangunguma kag mangingisda sa bug-os nga pungsod.
Pila ka mga pagkaon, nagsaka ang presyo bangod sang bag-o nga pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo
Nagsaka ang presyo sang pila ka mga produkto nga pagkaon bangod sang bag-o nga pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Lakip sa mga nagtaas nga balaklon amo ang tamodios, baboy kag pila ka mga utanon, samtang ginapaabot man nga maapektuhan ang presyo sang bugas.
Suno kay Arnel de Mesa, tagpamaba sang Department of Agriculture, iya ginpahayag nga nagtaas sang P30 ang presyo sang liempo bangod sang mas mataas nga gasto sa pag-transport sang mga produkto.
Dugang pa niya, kun magasaka ang presyo sang mga imported feeds nga ginakaon sang mga baboy, nagadugang man ini sa gasto sa produksyon kun sa diin nagaresulta sa pagsaka sang presyo sang karne.
Nagpaandam ang Department of Agriculture nga posible man nga magsaka ang presyo sang bugas kun magpadayon ang krisis sa presyo sang gatong.
Agud mabuligan ang mga apektado, magahatag ang gobyerno sang fuel subsidy sa mga kwalipikado nga mga mangunguma kag mangingisda sa sulod sang masunod nga duha ka semana.
Nahibaluan nga may yara sang gin-alokar nga P10 bilyon nga pondo nagikan sa Presidential Assistance to Farmers, Fisherfolk, and Families nga ginalantaw nga magamit agud mabuligan ang mga apektado sang pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo.
Malacanang, ginpasiguro nga may naplastar na nga interventions kun magsarurot pa gid ang baylo sang isa ka US dollar bangud sa krisis sa Middle East
Ginpasiguro sang Malacañang nga nakaplastar na ang mga interventions kaangay sang pagpataas sang interest rates kun labi pa gid nga magsarurot ang balor sang Philippine peso kontra sa US Dollar.
Ini matapos nga nakahimo sang panibag-o nga record sang pinakamanubo nga balor sang piso kontra sa dolyar nga yara sa P59.50 sa pagtakop sang trading kahapon sa tunga sang global uncertainties bangud sa kinagamo sa Middle East.
Suno kay Palace Press Officer Undersecretary Claire Castro, nakit-an na sang gobyerno nga posible ini nga matabo bangud sa sitwasyon sa Middle East kag ini ang konsekwensiya.
Ginhimo ni Castro ang pahayag sa press briefing sa New York sa sidelines sang three-day working visit ni Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
Una na ginsiling ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga indi niya gusto nga magsarurot pa sa 60 pesos ang isa ka dolyar.
Matandaan nga antes pa man ang pagsugod sang kinagamo sa Middle East, ginpahayag sang BSP nga mahimo nga maglab-ot gid man sa P60 ang kambyo sang isa ka US dollar apang indi pa subong ukon sa pinakamadali nga tinion.
Philippine Peso, nagsarurot sa record low nga 59.50 per US dollar
Nagsarurot na naman sa panibag-o nga record low ang baylo sang Philippine peso kontra sa US dollar kasunod sang nagasingki nga tensyon sa Middle East.
Sandig sa Bankers Association of the Philippines, nagtakop ang trading kahapon nga P59.50 sa kada isa ka US dollar ang baylo sang Philippine currency.
Mas maluya pa ini nga balor ipaanggid sa nauna nga record low nga P59.46 nga na-rekord sang Enero 15.
Antes ang pag-inaway sang US, Israel, kag Iran nga naglapta sa Middle East, naka-bangon-bangon sang gamay ang peso nga yara sa P57.51 as of Feb.
Kun maluya ang baylo sang Philippine Peso, buot silingon, mas mahal ang pagbakal sang imported goods, lakip na ang langis bangud ini nga produkto ang gina-purchase paagi sa dolyar.
Una na nga ginsiling ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr nga indi sini luyag nga makalapaw ang peso sa 60 pesos sa kada isa ka dolyar, bangud kun magluya ang balor sang Peso, pat-od nga magatimbuok na naman ang balayran sa utang.
DTI, magapain sang P2 billion sa “OFW Negosyo Fund” sini nga programa para sa mga OFW nga magapauli sa Pilipinas bangud sa gyera sa Middle East
Magapain ang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) sang P2 billion pamaagi sa DTI-Small Business Corporation para sa “OFW Negosyo Fund”.
Ini nga programa sang DTI ang isa ka pautang para sa mga Overseas Filipino Worker (OFW) nga magapauli sa Pilipinas bangud sa epekto sang krisis sa iban nga pungsod, ilabi na sa gyera karun sa Middle East.
Humalin Marso 12, 2026, sarang nga makautang ang mga OFW sang kapin P30,000 tubtub P20 million nga may isa ka tuig nga grace period kag flexible nga mga terms, lakip na ang loan repayment hasta lima ka tuig kag wala sang collateral sa pautang hasta P5 million.
Suno kay DTI Secretary Cristina Roque, ang amo nga pondo ang magahatag sang pamaagi sa mga OFW nga handa nga mag-negosyo sa pungsod, ilabi na subong nga panahon sang krisis.
Sa mga maga-avail, sarang mag-apply online sa DTI-SBCorp Money App ukon sa sbcorp.gov.ph, kag sa mga Negosyo Centers sa bilog nga pungsod.
Presyo sang diesel, posible maglab-ot sa masobra 80 pesos kada litro subong nga bulan
Posible suno sa Department of Energy (DOE) nga magalab-ot sang masobra 80 pesos kada litro ang presyo sang diesel kun magapadayon ang gyera sa Middle East kag kun indi pahat-pahat ang pagpatuman sang price hikes.
Ang nasambit nga posibilidad ginpresentar ni DOE Oil Management Bureau Director Rino Abad sa hearing kahapon nga adlaw sang Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
Dugang pa ni Abad nga mas malala ang natabo nga gyera sa tunga subong sang United States kag Iran kumpara sa natabo sang nagligad sa Russia kag Ukraine nga mas naka-apekto sa presyo sang krudo sa world market.
Ginpahayag man ni Abad nga kun magpadayon pa ini may posibildad nga magalab-ot sa 90 pesos ang presyo sang kada litro sang diesel kag gasolina ilabi na kun indi pag-amat-amaton sa pagdugang ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Business groups, nagapang-alang-alang sa pagpatuman sang four-day workweek
Nagapang-alang-alang ang pila sa business groups sa pag-implementar sang flexible work arrangements kag four-day workweek.
Ini kasunod sang panawagan halin mismo kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
nga buhinan ang fuel consumption bangud sang natalana nga pagtimbuok sang oil prices sa masunod nga semana bangud sang epekto sang gyera sa Middle East.
Suno sa Employers’ Confederation of the Philippines, bukas man ang private sector sa pagpatuman sang flexible work arrangements kag four-day workweek, apang indi ini mahimo iimplementar sa tanan nga industriya.
Amo man sini ang pagpati sang Management Association of the Philippines.
Suno naman sa Federation of Philippine Industries, dapat nga kun may adjustments gid man sa work structures, kinahanglan nga mahinalungon gid ang pagdihon agud malikawan ang disruptions sa output, delivery schedules, kag supply chain flows.
Nahibaluan nga isa ang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) sa nauna na nga nagsabat sa panawagan sang presidente.
Sa Memorandum Order 26-886, iga-apply sang DTI central office ang special flexible working scheme agud makakinot sa enerhiya bangud sa pagsaka sa presyo sang gatong.
Ang ila nga job order kag contract of service workers lakip na ang involved sa frontline functions ang maga-trabaho lamang sa ila mga balay sa kada Byernes.
Ang tanan nga DTI transactions kada Byernes sa central office ang gin-request man nga himuon online.#
Presyo sang imported products, magatimbuok kun magpadayon ang gyera sa Middle East —DA
Nagpaandam ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa posible nga pagtimbuok sa presyo sang imported products kun magdugay pa ang gyera sa Middle East.
Pareho man ini sa sentimyento sang mga ekonomista kag mga grupo sang local farmers.
Kasunod ini sang reports nga siradhan ang Strait of Hormuz nga isa sa pinaka-kritikal nga area sa kalibutan kun sa diin nagaagi ang one-fifth sang langis ngaginakonsumo sang kalibutan.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., kun basehan ang nauna nga mga eksperyensya, magasaka ang presyo sang langis sa kada may disruption sa amo nga strait.
Maapektuhan sini ang petroleum-based fertilizers, freight costs, kag ang gatong nga amo ang nagapaandar sa makina nga ginagamit sang mga mangunguma kag mga manugpangisda.
Magluwas diri suno kay Laurel, dungan pa ini sa tyempo kun sa diin isa man ka pagpanghangkat sa mga producers ang pag-stabilize sang kadamuon sang produkto bangud sang tuman ka init nga tyempo.
Bangud sa mataas nga bunker fuel costs, magasaka man ang shipping rates kag makaapekto sa iban nga imports pati na sa presyo sang tinapay, poultry, kag pork, kag mas mabudlayan ang gobyerno sa pagtapna sa food inflation.
Produktong petrolyo, posible nga magataas tubtob P10 sa masunod nga semana
Possible nga magataas tubtob P10 ang kada litro sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Ini bangud sa nagapadayon nga tensyon sa tunga sang United Nations kag Iran nga nagakaapekto sa global oil market suno Department of Energy – Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB).
Ikapito na ini nga pagtaas subong nga semana para sa gasolina, samtang sa diesel kag kerosene ika-siyam nga semana naman.
Dala sang tensyon, napilitan nga magsara ang pila ka mga pasilidad sang petrolyo sa rehiyon kag nagaka-delay nga shipping operations sa Strait of Hormuz.
Presyo sang gasolina, diesel, kag kerosene, nagsaka sang masobra piso kada litro
Nagsaka sang masobra piso ang presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo epektibo subong nga aga, Marso 3.
Ini na ang pang-walo nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga may saka-presyo sa gasolina, kag pang-10 naman nga sunod-sunod nga semana para sa diesel kag kerosene.
Una na nga gin-project sang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) ang masobra piso nga saka sa presyo subong nga semana ilabi na bangud sa nag-ibwal nga tensyon sa tunga sang US kag Israel batok sa Iran nga subong naglapta na sa Middle East.
Nagpanawagan naman si Senator Bam Aquino nga dapat i-suspend na sang gobyerno ang excise taxes sa fuel sa idalom sang Tax Reform for Acceleration and Inclusion (TRAIN) Law.
Suno kay Aquino, sa idalom sang TRAIN Law, may yara sang automatic suspension of excise taxes sa petroleum products kun ang average global oil price nagalab-ot na sa $80 per barrel para sa tatlo ka sunod-sunod nga bulan.
Makabulig ang suspension suno sa senador agud nga mabuhinan ang bug-at nga pas-anon sang mga pumuluyo sa pagsaka sa presyo sang langis samtang mataas ang tension sa Middle East.
Kun magsaka ang presyo sang gatong suno sa senador, ginaantisipar nga magasunod man sa pagsaka ang iban nga balaklon pati na ang pagkaon.
Sabado sang gin-umpisahan sang US kag Israel ang operasyon sa Iran nga nagpatay sa ila Supreme Leader kag iban pa nga senior officials.
Nagbalos ang Tehran kag ginpang-atake ang military bases sang Estados Unidos sang Middle East.#
Inflation rate sa bulan sang Pebrero, posible nga maga-dangat sa 2.3% tubtob 3.1%
Posible nga maga-dangat sa 2.3 tubtob 3.1 % ang inflation rate sa bulan sang Pebrero suno sa Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.
Suno sa BSP, pwede nga magapataas sa inflation ang pagmahal sang presyo sang bugas, isda kag produktong petrolyo.
Samtang, makabulig naman nga mapanubo ang inflation sa pagnubo sang presyo sang utanon, prutas kag karne.
Sang Enero, naglab-ot sa 2% ang inflation.
Suno pa sa ekonomista, posible nga magadasig ang pagtaas sang inflation subong nga tuig bangud sa ginatawag nga base effects nga halin pa sang nagligad nga tuig nagsugod.
Mga Pilipino, pwede na makakuha sang mga dokumento sang civil registry paagi sa digital nga pamaagi
Pwede na makakuha ang mga Pilipino sang mga importante nga dokumento sang civil registry sa digital nga pamaagi matapos gin-lunsyar sang Philippine Statistics Authority ang e-certificate kahapon nga adlaw.
Paagi sa PSAHelpline.ph, pahanugutan na ang digital service kag pwede na makapangayo sang e-certificates nga may pareho nga legal authority kaangay sang tradisyonal nga PSA-issued certificates.
Dala sa mga digital nga dokumento nga pwede i-request kag ma-verify amo ang birth certificate, marriage certificate kag death certificate, amo man ang Certificate of No Marriage ukon CENOMAR.
Suno sa PSA, ang ini nga serbisyo isa ka “cryptographically secure,” nga nagakahulugan nga ini may ara sang hugot nga seguridad kag gindisenyo para sa real-time nga beripikasyon.
Sang 2023 ang kaangay sini nga serbisyo gintestingan man sa bulig sang Armed Forces of the Philippines Pension kag Gratitude Management Center kag sang Department of Foreign Affairs.
Nalab-ot ang masobra 200, 000 ka mga transaction ang na-proseso sang amo nga pilot-run nga naghatag sang kumpiyansa sa PSA nga handa na ini nga i-lunsyar publiko.
Queenbank, padayon ang pag-evolve kag pag-innovate para sa pag-umwad
Bangud sa padayon nga pag-evolve kag pag-innovate sang Queen City Development Bank, natungdan sini ang papel bilang partner sa pagpaumwad pa sang komunidad.
Sa pagbukas kahapon, Pebrero 23, sang tatlo ka adlaw nga Top Level Management Conference nga ginhiwat sa Dr.
Florete Leadership Center sa Queenbank Building sa Valeria Street, Iloilo City, ginpahayag ni Miss Margaret Ruth Florete, President kag CEO sang Queen City Development Bank, nga padayon ang pag-evolve sang Queenbank agud makadungan sa madasig nga pag-uswag sang teknolohiya kag sa nagabag-o nga dynamics sang merkado.
Suno kay Miss Margaret Ruth Florete, mabatyagan sang mga komunidad ang presensya sang bangko kag nagapabilin ini nga importante nga partner sang mga kliyente, labi na sa tion sang mga pagbag-o kag kakulang sang kasiguruhan.
Nakita sang Queenbank ang madamo nga oportunidad nga ginadala sang inobasyon, entrepreneurship kag resilience.
Ginpanindugan ni Miss Margaret Ruth Florete nga nakasentro ang bangko sa responsible growth kun sa diin indi lamang ang kita ang ginahatagan importansya kundi pati ang klaro nga katuyoan.
Lakip sa mga tikang sang Queenbank amo ang pagduso sang organic growth, pag-invest sa mga empleyado, digital capabilities kag sa mga physical spaces nga mas makabulig sa mas epektibo nga pagsuporta sa mga kliyente.
Bisan pa sang indi maisip nga mga nalab-ot sang Queenbank, nagapati ini nga mas madamo pa gid ang oportunidad nga nagahulat sa Queenbank agud mas mapalapad pa ang serbisyo kag epekto sini sa mga komunidad nga ginapangalagaran sini.
Ang tema sang Top Level Management Conference subong nga tuig amo ang Building Relationships, Building Business, nga nagapakita sang commitment sang Queenbank sa paghatag prayoridad sa papel sini sa komunidad.
Ang Queenbank gina-regulate sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kag miyembro sang Philippine Deposit Insurance Corporation, Chamber of Thrift Banks, kag Florete Group.
Presyo sang gasolina magataas sang P0.60, samtang diesel kag kerosene may pagsaka man sang P1.20 kada litro
Magataas naman ang presyo sang gasolina subong nga semana, ini na ang ika-pito nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga nagtaas ini.
Samtang, ika-siyam naman nga sunod-sunod nga semana ang pagtaas para presyo sa diesel kag sa kerosene.
Gasolina-magataas sang P0.60 Diesel- magataas sang P1.20 Kerosene-magataas sang P1.20
Epektibo ini las sais buwas nga adlaw sang Martes, Pebrero 24
Una na nga nag-project ang Department of Energy–Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) sang pagtaas sang produktong petrolyo bangud sa geopolitical tensions kag supply expectations.
Pilipinas kag Japan, nakatalana nga magapatigayon sang loan agreement nga nagabalor sang indi magnubo sa P230 billion
Nakatalana nga magpatigayon ang Pilipinas kag Japan sang isa ka loan agreement kun sa diin magapautang ini sang indi magnubo sa 600 billion yen ukon P230 bilyon sa pungsod.
Ini bilang pagpabakod sang madugay na nga economic partnership sang duwa ka pungsod suno sa Department of Finance.
Suno kay Finance Secretary Frederick Go, bag-o matapos ang fiscal year 2025 sang Japan, target sang Pilipinas nga pirmahan ang tatlo pa ka dugang nga importante nga financial agreements nga nagabalor sang 243.31 billion yen ukon P91.1 billion.
Suno sa Finance Department, humalin nga nag-umpisa ang Marcos administration, naka-rekord na sang 12 ka financing agreements ang Philippine government kaupod ang Japan.
Ginakonsidera man ang Japan bilang pinakadako nga provider sang Official Development Assistance (ODA) sang pungsod.
Humalin sang Diyembre 2025, naglab-ot na sa indi magkulang nga 13.96 billion US dollar nga kabilugan loan kag grant commitments halin sa Japan nga nagaserbe sa 33.54% nga kabilugan sang Official Development Assistance portfolio sang pungsod.
Ginpakigbahin naman ni Executive Secretary Ralph Recto ang interes para sa dugang nga negosyo kadungan sang 42nd Annual Joint Meeting of the Economic Cooperation Committees of the Philippines and Japan.
Nakaandan nga retail price sang bugas, nagnubo sa una nga quarter sang Pebrero
Nagnubo ang nakaandan nga retail price sang bugas sa una nga quarter sang Pebrero.
Ini apisar sa nagapadayon nga pagtaas sang farm-gate price sang palay ukon ang wala pa naproseso nga bugas.
Suno sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), naglab-ot sa P45.54 kada kilo ang average retail price sang regular milled rice sang
Mas manubo ini sang 4.7% kumpara sa P47.77 kada kilo sa kapareho man nga quarter sang nagligad nga tuig.
Ginpahayag sang ahensya ang pagnubo sang presyo sang bugas apisar nga padayon ang pagtaas sang presyo sang palay.
Ginsundan pa ini sang temporaryo nga pag-import sang bugas halin Setyembre tubtob Disyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
nakabulig ang suspensyon sang importasyon agud magtaas ang presyo sang palay nga una na nga nagnubo bangud sang pag-import sang bugas sang nagligad nga tuig.
Importasyon sang bugas buhinan sa bulan sang Marso kag Abril agud mabuligan ang mga lokal nga mangunguma
Nagpasalig ang mga importer sang bugas nga buhinan ang pag-import sa bulan sang Marso kag Abril agud mabuligan ang mga lokal nga mangunguma.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., ang pag-import sang bugas naglab-ot sa average nga indi magkulang sa 400,000 metric tons sa kada bulan.
Nagpabutyag naman suno sa iya ang mga importer nga ila pagalimitahan ini sang 150,000 metric tons lamang para sa tyempo sang harvest.
Ang pagdumili sang pag-import sang bugas ang ginkakas na sang Enero kag suno pa sa tiglikom nga dapat mangin normal na ang sitwasyon sa tunga-tunga sang bulan sang Marso.
Suno pa sa iya nga maganubo ang presyo sang bugas sa tyempo sang harvest.
Kasunod sang pagpa-uswag sang P20/kilo nga bugas nga programa sang gobyerno sa mga Local Government Units sa Manila, ginpahayag ni Tiu Laurel nga ila ginalauman ang nagakaigo nga suplay sang bugas agud masustentuhan ang implementasyon sini.
Ang pagbaligya sang subsidized nga bugas ang ginalimitahan lamang sang 10ka kilo sa kada pamilya sa kada bulan kag 30kg naman sa kadala bulan para sa PWDs, senior citizens, kag mga single parent.
Ini nagatuyo nga mapalain-lain ang global critical mineral supply chains kag ma-promote ang investments sa sector.
Pila ka mga mamalidha, ginaduso ang pagbuhin sang VAT sa kuryente
Ginaduso subong sang pila ka mga mamalidha nga buhinan ang value-added tax (VAT) nga ginadugang sa mga kompanya sang enerhiya agud mapanubo ang bili sang kuryente.
Suno kay Senator Sherwin Gatchalian, anay nagapamuno sang Energy, Ways and Means Committees sa Senado, dako ang mangin epekto sini sa kita sang gobyerno kun kuhaon ang VAT sa power generation kag distribution.
Apang suno sa Senador, ginatun-an pa sini ang posibilidad nga buhinan ang VAT nga ginapasa sa mga consumer.
Nag-ugyon naman si Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) Chairman Nino Juan sa pagkuha sang VAT sa kuryente, nga suno pa sa iya magaresulta sa mas manubo nga sukot para sa mga ordinaryo nga consumer kag negosyante.
Domestic liquidity sang Pilipinas, nagtaas sang 7% sang Disyembre 2025 suno sa BSP
Nagtaas ang domestic liquidity, ukon ang kantidad sang kwarta nga nagasirkular sa ekonomiya sa Pilipinas, sang 7% year-on-year sang Disyembre 2025, base sa inisyal nga datos sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP).
Naabot sini ang domestic liquidity, kilala man nga M3, nga ₱20.1 trilyon sa bulan sang Disyembre.
Bisan pa may pagtaas, mas mahinay ini kumparar sa 7.6% nga pag-umwad sang Nobyembre.
Matapos nga i-adjust ang seasonal fluctuations, nagapadayon nga mapag-un ang M3 halin sang Nobyembre.
Small-time laborers sa construction sector, nadulaan sang trabaho bangud sa flood control scandal
Produksyon sang mais sa Region VI, nagnubo sa ika-apat nga quarter sang 2025
Nagnubo ang produksyon sang mais sa Western Visayas sa ika-apat nga quarter sang 2025 suno sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA).
Ang kabilugan nga harvest nagnubo sang 14.3% sa 17,123 metric tons halin sa halos 20,000 metric tons sang nagligad nga tuig.
Nagapanguna sa gihapon ang Iloilo sa produksyon sang Mais nga may yara sang 8,941 metric tons ukon 52% sang kabilugan nga harvest.
Nagapangaduha ang Capiz nga may 6,930 metric tons ukon 40.5%, Antique nga may 840 metric tons ukon halos 5%.
Guimaras nga may 257metric tons 1.5% kag Aklan nga may 154 metric tons ukon 0.9% .
Suno sa PSA, ang pagnubo ang dala sang pag-gamay sang mga kadutaan nga ginatamnan kag paghina sang bunga sang nasambit nga produkto.
Ang probinsya lamang sang Antique ang naka-record sang pagdamo sang tanum sang mais, samtang ang Aklan ang may mataas nga pagnubo.
Utang sang Pilipinas, nagpanglakaak sa P17.71 trillion sa pagtakop sang 2025
Nagdangat na sa P17.71 trillion ang utang sang Pilipinas sa pagtakop sang 2025.
Sandig ini sa data nga ginpaguwa sang Bureau of the Treasury.
Suno sa ahensya, ang utang sang gobyerno sa pagtapos sang Disyembre 2025 ang nagtaas pa sang 10.32% ukon P1.66 trillion halin sa utang nga P16.05 trillion sang Disyembre 2024.
Lapaw man ang kantidad sa ceiling ukon ang maximum lang kuntani nga utangon sang gobyerno nga amo ang P17.36 trillion.
Isa sa ginrason sang ahensya amo ang epekto sang pagluya sang balor sang Peso batok sa US dollar kag third currencies lakip na ang Euro kag ang Japanese Yen.
Gindugang man sang ahensya nga kadam-an sa utang sang Pilipinas ukon 68.4% ang naghalin man mismo diri sa pungsod.
Ang foreign debt ukon ang utang naman sa luwas sang pungsod naglab-ot sa P5.59 trillion nga mas mataas sang 9.19% halin sa P5.12 trillion sa katapusan sang 2024.
Sandig sa Budget of Expenditures and Sources of Financing, ginalantaw nga subong nga tuig,magatimbuok pa sa P19.057 trillion ang sovereign debt sang Pilipinas.
Presyo sang produktong petrolyo liwat nga magasaka subong nga semana
Liwat nga magataas ang presyo sang gasolina subong nga semana, ini na ang ikaapat nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga nagtaas ini.
Samtang, ika-anom naman nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga nagtaas ang presyo para sa diesel kag sa kerosene.
Gasolina-magataas sang P0.80 Diesel- magataas sang P1.60 Kerosene-magataas sang P1.10
Epektibo ini las sais buwas nga adlaw sang Martes, Pebrero 3
Nauna na nga nag-project ang Department of Energy–Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) nga magataas ang presyo subong nga semana bangud sa mahina nga pagbangon sang Tengiz field sa Kazakhstan, pagtaas sang Iran risk premium, kag sa patakaran sang (Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) OPEC+ nga pauntaton anay ang pagpataas sang produksyon.
LPG prices, nagsaka sa entrada sang Pebrero
Nagpasaka sang presyo ang Petron kag Solane para sa liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) sa entrada sang Pebrero.
Sandig sa Petron, nag-implementar ini sang P1.50 per kilogram nga saka, samtang sa separado nga advisory, nagsiling ang Solane nga nagpatuman ini sang P1.55 per kilogram increase.
Ini nga pagsaka ang katumbas sang dugang nga P16.50 tubtub sa P17 nga saka sa 11-kilogram cylinder nga ginagamit sa sulod sang balay.
Antes sini nga price hike, may yara sang serye sang bulanan nga LPG adjustments bangud sa global market fluctuations.
Mga sugar federation sa Pilipinas, nagpanawagan sa DA kag SRA
Nagpadala sang manifesto ang mga sugar federation sa bilog nga pungsod nga nagapanawagan sa Department of Agriculture (DA) kag Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) sang pagpatuman sang regulasyon sa artificial sweeteners kag mas hugot nga patakaran sa iban pa nga sugar substitutes nga nagaapekto sa demand sang tubo.
Nabatun sang ahensya ang panawagan sang Enero 30 nga halin sa mga sugar millers, refiners, kag iban pa nga allied industry groups.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel, matapos ang pila ka mga konsultasyon nga ginpangunahan sang DA kag Sugar Regulatory Administration kaupod ang mga sugar industry stakeholders, maga-ubra sila sang mga tikang agud nga mas pasangkarun pa ang industriya sang kalamay.
Nahibalu-an nga ginpasaka na sa provincial government sang Negros Occidental kag iban pa nga mga probinsya ang nasambit nga tikang agud nga mahatagan sang solusyon ang nasmabit nga panawagan.
Dugang pa ni Laurel nga una na ini nga ginpasaka nga issue sang nagligad pa nga 2024 kun sa diin hugot man nga gintutukan ang sugar importation sa pungsod.
DA, ginpabaskog pa ang pagbantay kag pag-monitor sa mga proyekto sa farm-to-market road
Ginpabaskog pa sang Department of Agriculture ang pagbantay kag pag-monitor sa mga proyekto sa farm-to-market road.
Ini agud mangin sigurado ang transparency, kalidad kag matuod nga pagpatuman sang proyekto para mabuligan ang mga mangunguma kag mga mangingisda.
Nahibaluan nga halin sang tuig 2021 tubtob 2025, may ara sang masobra 4,000 ka mga proyekto nga nagabalor sang P76.52 bilyon, kag 3,135 na diri ang natapos na.
Samtang, para sa tuig 2026, naghatag ang gobyerno sang P33 bilyon nga pondo agud matukod ang masobra sa 2,300 ka kilometro sang farm-to-market roads nga magabulig sa pagpanubo sang production costs kag pabaskugon ang rural development.
Pagtaas sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo, ipatuman subong nga semana
Gin-anunsyo sang fuel retailer subong nga adlaw sang lunes ang panibag-o nga pagtaas sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Ini na ang ikatatlo ka semana nga sunod-sunod nga pagtaas para sa gasolina samtang ikalima naman nga semana para sa diesel kag kerosene.
Sa gasolina magataas sang P0.40 kada litro Sa diesel magataas sang P1.40 kada litro Sa Kerosene P0.80 kada litro
Mangin epektibo ini buwas nga adlaw sang Martes, Enero 27.
Suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) ginalauman sini ang paghulag sang presyo subong nga semana, bangud sa tensyon sa Greenland kag ang positibo nga panan-awan sang demand halin sa China.
DA, ginpangakuan sang rice miller nga pataason ang buying price sang palay
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Agriculture nga nagpangako ang rice miller nga ila pataason ang buying price sang palay sa minimum nga 17 pesos kada kilo para sa wet palay ukon unmilled rice.
Samtang 21 pesos naman kada kilo para sa dry palay ilabi na sa Noethern kag Central Luzon nga ila ginakonsiderar nga ‘rice-producing provinces’ sang pungsod.
Tinutuyo sini nga mabuligan ang mga mangunguma matapos nga nagnubo ang farmgate price sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno sa DA, ila man pagatun-an ang possible nga pagbawal sa importasyon kun maga-umpisa na ang peak harvest season, samtang nagapabilin sa 15% ang rice tariff sa subong.
Presyo sang nagapanguna nga balaklon sa Pilipinas, wala sang pagbag-o suno sa DTI
Nagapabilin ang mga presyo sang mga pangunahon nga balaklon sa Pilipinas, suno sa Department of Trade and Industry (DTI).
Ginpahayag sang DTI nga wala nagtaas ang presyo sang delata sang tomato sauce, instant mami noodles, habon nga panglaba, kandila, tinapay, kag mga baterya.
Suno sa ahensya, ini nga mga produkto ang nagaporma sang 91 % ukon 186 sa 205 ka stock-keeping units nga yara sa listahan sang basic necessities kag prime commodities.
Suno kay Trade Secretary Cristina Roque, padayon nga bantayan sang gobyerno ang mga presyo sang mga nagapanguna nga balaklon.
Nakakuha ang Pilipinas sang 10 billion yen ukon kapin ₱3.7 billion nga emergency financing halin sa Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
Ini agud suportahan ang post-typhoon response kag recovery kasunod sang kahalitan nga ginbilin sang bagyo “Tino.”
Suno sa JICA Philippines, ang pondo nagarepresentar sang first tranche sang Post-Disaster Standby Loan Phase 3 (PDSL3), nga gamiton agud suportahan ang relief, rehabilitation, kag reconstruction efforts sang gobyerno.
Ginpahayag sang JICA nga ang pag- release sang pondo ang kasunod sang request halin sa Department of Finance (DOF) matapos gindeklarar ang state of national calamity bangud sa impact sang bagyo.
President Marcos Jr., ginpirmahan na ang duha ka proklamasyon nga nagatukod sang bag-o nga economic zones sa Batangas kag Iloilo City
ang duha ka proklamasyon nga nagatukod sang bag-o nga economic zones sa Tanauan City, Batangas, kag Iloilo City.
Ini agud makaganyat sang investors kag makabulig pa-uswag sang ekonomiya sa rehiyon.
1127, apat ka parte sang duta sa Tanauan ang gindugang sa First Industrial Township–Special Economic Zone sa Batangas, nga may kabug-usan nga 55,859 square meters.
1128, gin-establisar ang Atria Gardens, isa ka bag-o nga IT park sa Donato Pison Avenue sa Barangay San Rafael, Mandurriao, Iloilo City, nga may may total land area nga 48,569 square meters.
Suno sa Malacañang, ini nga mga ecozones ginapaabot nga makaganyat sang investors, makahatag sang trabaho, kag makabulig sa padayon nga pag-uswag sang ekonomiya sa duha ka rehiyon.
DA, nagmando nga mag-alokar sang pondo para magbakal sang dako nga suplay sang katumbal kag munggo direkta sa mga local farmers
(FTI) nga mag-alokar sang pondo para magbakal sang dako nga bulto sang katumbal kag munggo direkta sa mga lokal nga mangunguma.
Ini agud pabaskugon ang presyo sang katumbal kag munggo kag para mabuhinan man ang pag-import sang produkto sa iban nga pungsod.
Suno kay Tiu Laurel, ginakilala sang ahensya ang katumbal kag munggo bilang prayoridad nga high value crops subong nga tuig.
Suno pa sa tiglikom nga dapat mag-umpisa na bakal ang Food Terminal Inc.
(FTI) sang tubtob 80% sang local production para mahikayat ang mga manug-tanom paagi sa sigurado nga mga manugbakal kag maprotektahan sila batok sa pabag-o bag-o nga presyo sa merkado.
Presyo sang produktong petrolyo, magasaka na naman sa masunod nga semana
Magasaka na naman ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Sandig sa industry estimates sa Mean of Platts Singapore (MOPS) trading sa nagligad nga adlaw, yari ang gina-project nga paghulag sa presyo:
Gasoline – posible magsaka sang P0.60 per liter Diesel – posible magsaka sang P1.35 per liter Kerosene – posible magsaka sang P1.00 per liter
Suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau, wala pa nalakip diri ang operating cost sang mga kumpaniya sang langis kag iban pa nga premiums nga posible magtupa sa P0.40 tubtub sa P0.50.
Gina-angot sang ahensya ang potensyal nga price hike sa geopolitical tension sa Iran kun sa diin linibo ka mga indibidwal ang napatay bangud sa pagprotesta, kag may posibilidad pa nga mag-intra ang Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Ini nga gamo suno sa DOE ang magaapekto sa pagsaka sa presyo apisar sang oversupply sang oil products sa una nga bulan sang 2026.
Ginamensyonar man sa projected numbers ang padayon nga pagluya sang balor sang Philippine Peso kontra sa US dollar.
Kahapon, nagtakop ang trading sa bag-o nga historic low nga P59.46.
Gin-anunsyo sang fuel firms ang price adjustments sa kada Lunes, kag ginapatuman sa kada Martes sang aga.
Matandaan nga sang Martes, Enero 13, nagpasaka ang petroleum retailers sang P0.30 sa kada litro sang gasolina; P0.20 sa diesel; kag P0.30 sa kerosene.
Ini ang pangtatlo nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga may price hike sa diesel kag kerosene.
Plano sang SRA para sa pag-export sang kalamay sa US, aprubado na sang DA
Gin-aprubahan sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang plano sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) nga mag-export sang 100,000 metric tons sang raw sugar sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Ang mayor nga tuyo sini suno sa DA amo nga protektahan ang income sang local raw sugar producers.
Paagi sa pag-export, mapanubo ang suplay sang domestic raw sugar matapos nagsaka sang 130,000 tons ang local farmer production.
Kun may ipain nga harvest para sa US tariff-rate quota, mas mapasaka man sini ang farmgate prices.
Matandaan nga una na nga ginpalawig sang DA kag SRA ang pag-ban sa sugar importation tubtub sa Disyembre 2026 agud nga maproteksyunan man ang local producers bisan nga matapos na ang crop year sa Septyembre.
Economic and Development Council, gin-aprubahan na ang P279.5 B para sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya
ang P279.5 billion nga proyekto para sa edukasyon, transportasyon kag agrikultura.
Kabahin man diri ang P105.69 billion nga School Infrastructure Project Phase III nga magapatindog sang 16, 459 ka mga classrooms sa Luzon umpisa 2027 tubtob 2028 para sa masobra 800,000 nga mga estudyante kada tuig .
Upod man ang P28.24 billion nga proyekto sa mga taytay para sa mga mangunguma kag ang pagpalawig sang Farm-to-Market Bridges Program nga makapatindog sang ginatos nga mga taytay sa nagkalain-lain nga rehiyon.
Suno sa Department of Economy, Planning and Development (DEPDev) ginatuyo sang mga proyekto nga pabaskugon ang edukasyon, konektibidad kag inklusibo nga pagpauswag sang ekonomiya.
Pilipinas, nagbalik na sa pag-import sang bugas
Opisyal na nga nagbalik sa international rice market ang Pilipinas matapos nga nagtakop na ang apat ka bulan nga import ban sa bugas nga nag-umpisa sadtong Septyembre 2025.
Apisar sini, nagapabilin sa 15% ang taripa nga gina-apply para sa imported rice.
Kinahanglan pa nga i-formalize ang implementasyon sang mas mataas nga taripa nga 20%.
Sa guidelines nga gin-isyu sang Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) sa resumption sang rice importation, pahanugutan lamang nga makasulod ang importasyon sang bugas paagi sa 17 ka mga pantalan sa bilog nga pungsod.
Lakip diri ang Subic, Batangas, Manila International Container Port, Port of Manila, Cebu, Cagayan de Oro, Iligan, Davao, General Santos, Tacloban, Tabaco in Albay, Zamboanga, Bacolod, Iloilo, Tagbilaran, Dumaguete kag ang Calbayog.
Dapat nga makasulod ang bugas sa Pilipinas sa sulod sang 60 ka adlaw halin sang gin-isyu ang ila nga sanitary kag phytosanitary nga import clearance.#
Tensyon sang Venezuela kag US, indi makaapekto sa oil prices sa Pilipinas —DOE
Gin-athag sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga indi makaapekto sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa Pilipinas ang tensyon sa tunga sang Venezuela kag Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Suno kay DOE Oil Industry Management Bureau director Rino Abad, ang oil exportation sang Venezuela ang mas manubo pa sa 1% sang global supply.
So yan po ay less than 1% ng global supply,” suno kay Abad.
Magluwas diri suno sa iya, halos China lang ang nagabakal sang langis sa Venezuela.
Isa ba ‘yang mabigat na supply disruption?
At pangalawang aspeto, sino ba ang bumibili lang ho diyan?
Ang bumibili lang ho niyan ay almost China lang,” dugang sang opisyal.
Bangud sini suno sa iya, indi maapektuhan sang krisis ang suplay sang langis sa kalibutan.
Pahayag sini, wala man naga-import sang langis ang Pilipinas halin sa amo nga pungsod sa Latin America.
Sabado sang kaagahon sang gindakop sang US military si Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro kag iya asawa nga si Cilia Flores kag gindala sa New York para mag-atubang sa sampaw-sampaw nga mga kaso nga naangot sa iligal nga droga.
Una naman nga ginpanindugan ni Maduro nga ang mga kaso sang US batok sa iya nag-ugat sa interes sang Trump administration nga angkunon ang oil resources sang Venezuela.
DA, ginaduso nga padasigon ang pagpasar sang layi para mapondohan ang coco levy sa Pilipinas
sa mga mamalidha nga padasigon ang pagpasar sang ginaproponer nga layi para mapondohan ang coco levy sa pungsod.
Nagpaandam man ini nga ang madugay nga pagka-delay sa pagbukas sang pondo pwede nga madulaan sang oppurtunidad ang mga mangunguma sa sektor sang niyog.
Tinutuyo sini nga pabaskugon kag pasangkaron ang mga benepisyo para sa nagapananom sang niyog.
Sa ika-20 Kongreso, may ginpreparar na nga amyendayhan ang layi sa coco levy fund bilang paghimakas nga pabaskugon ang pagpatuman sa paggamit sang pondo.
Kabahin diri ang paghimo kag pagpalapad sang mga seed farm kag nursery, ang produksyon sang mataas nga ani kag hybrid sang lubi.
Tinutuyo man sini ang paghatag sang technical nga suporta para sa rehabilitasyon sang mga tanuman sang lubi.
P20 kada kilo nga bugas sa pungsod palaparon pa sang Department of Agriculture subong nga 2026
nga ila pa palaparon ang programa nga P20 kada kilo nga bugas sang gobyerno sini nga tuig 2026.
Kabahin ini sang plano sang gobyerno nga malab-ot ang 15 million ka mga kabalayan tubtob nga matapos ang tuig 2026.
Nag-allocate na ang gobyerno sang P23 billion para sa subsidiya sang P20 rice program subong nga tuig 2026 kag ginatutukan ang mga sector nga nagakinahanglan gid sang bulig.
Ginabulubanta nga maga-abot sa 780,000 ka mga kabalayan ukon indi magkulang sa 3.2 million ka mga Pilipino ang makabenipisyo sa sini nga programa sa bulan sang Enero tubtob Pebrero.
Magapabilin ang limitasyon sa pagbakal sang bugas agud nga ma-manage sang maayo ang suplay.
Dugang pa sang tiglikom sang Department of Agriculture nga pahanugutan sa gihapon nga makabakal ang mga senior citizen tubtob sa 30 ka kilo sa kada bulan.
Samtang, 10 ka kilo naman ang sa iban pa nga banepisyaryo.
Presyo sang diesel kag gasolina, may senintimos nga rollback sa masunod nga semana
Ipatuman ang senintimos nga rollback sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Suno sa Department of Energy – Oil Industry Management Bureau subong nga Byernes, Enero 2, ang gina-forecast nga adjustments sa fuel prices ang ginbase sa tatlo ka adlaw nga trading sang Mean of Platts Singapore (MOPS).
Gasolina: posible nga may rollback nga P0.50 Diesel: posible nga may rollback nga P0.15 Kerosene: posible nga may rollback nga P0.20
Ini nga estimates wala pa nagalakip sang operating cost sang mga kumpaniya sang langis kag iban pa nga mga premium.
Ang ginalauman nga rollback ang naangot sa paghagan-hagan sang geopolitical risks, possible matabo nga global oversupply, mahina nga demand expectations sa major consumers kaangay sang China, kag amo man ang OPEC+ policy kag market balance.
Kinaandan nga gina-anunsyo sang oil companies ang adjustments sa oil prices sa kada Lunes, kag dungan ini nga gina-implementar sa kada Martes sang aga.
Patas nga presyuhanay sa humay, mangin prayoridad sang DA sa 2026
Ginpasalig sang Department of Agriculture nga mangin prayoridad sini subong nga 2026 nga mangin patas sa presyo sang humay.
Hatagan man sang ahensya sang pagtamod ang pagpasangkad sang P20-per-kilo rice program kag dasigon ang pagtukod sang farm-to-market roads (FMRs).
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., importante ini nga mga tikang agud nga masustiner ang rice production.
Makabulig ini suno sa iya nga mangin barato ang pagkaon kag mangin mas mahapos sa mga mangunguma nga dal-on ang ila nga ani sa mga merkado.
Pahayag sang ahensya, padayunon ang procurement sang National Food Authority (NFA) kun sa diin P17 per kilo ang bakal sa wet palay kag P21 per kilo para sa dry palay.
Nagpakig-angot naman ang ahensya sa industry stakeholders agud malikawan ang pagpanglakaak sang import nga magapanubo sang presyo sang local harvest.
Sa 2025, matandaan nga tubtub lang sa 3.5 million metric tons ang ginpahanugutan nga rice imports halin sa 4.8 million tons sang 2024.
DOLE, gin-anunsyo nga tubtob sa Enero 15, 2026 na lang ang ulihi nga adlaw sa pag-sumiter sang 13th Month Pay Compliance Report
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) nga ang ulihi nga adlaw sa pag-sumiter sang 13th Month Pay Compliance Report amo sa Enero 15, 2026.
Suno pa sa DOLE nga obligado ang pagsumite para siguraduhon ang transparency kag pagsunod sini sa layi.
Pwede nga isumite sang pribado nga kompanya ang report sang 13th month pay sa link nga ginhatag sang ahensya.
Ang 13th month pay ginahatag sa tanan nga rank-and-file employees sa pribado nga sector, anuman ang posisyon sini basta nagtrabaho nga indi magnubo sa isa ka bulan sa sulod sang tuig.
Senentimos nga pagsaka sang presyo sang diesel kag kerosene lauman antes magtakop ang tuig 2025
Para sa diesel kag kerosene, magasaka sang P0.60 kada litro, samtang ang presyo sang gasoline ang wala sang pagbag-o sa sini nga semana.
Ipatuman ang nasambit nga pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo buwas sa aga.
Gasolina, posible nga may rollback nga singkwenta sentimos sa masunod nga semana
Lauman ang mixed movements sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Suno sa Department of Energy – Oil Industry Management Bureau, kasunod sang tatlo ka adlaw nga monitoring sa Mean of Platts Singapore (MOPS), yari ang posible nga adjustments antes ang Bag-ong Tuig:
Gasolina – posible nga may rollback nga P0.50 Diesel – no adjustment Kerosene – posible magsaka sang P0.10
Wala pa nalakip sa sini nga estimates ang operating cost sang oil companies kag iban pa nga premiums.
Ang downward pressure ang ginaangot sang ahensya sa global oversupply halin sa non-OPEC economies kaangay sang Estados Unidos.
Ginalantaw man ang maluya nga demand bangud sang mahina nga holiday travels kag seasonal industrial demand kag wala kasiguruhan sa geopolitical tensions sa Venezuela, Ukraine kag Russia.
Gina-anunsyo sang oil companies ang opisyal nga price adjustment sa kada Lunes kag ginapatuman ini sa kada Martes sang aga.
SSS, igalunsyar ang pagbukas sang mga microloan programs kag ang dugang nga pension para sa benepisyaryo sa masunod nga tuig
Nakatalana nga ilunsyar sang Social Security System (SSS) ang pagbukas sang mga microloan programs kag ang dugang nga pension sa ila mga benepisyaryo sa masunod nga tuig.
Suno sa pamunuan sang SSS, possible ipatuman ang dugang nga pension sa una nga bahin sang Setyembre 2026 bilang kabahin sang ila phase pension reform kadungan sang pagpalawig sang domestic kag overseas operations.
Ang microloan programs naman ang ginalauman nga maimplementar sa una nga bahin sang tuig 2026 kasunod sa nangin pag-apruba sini sang Social Security Commission sang Disyembre 17.
Suno kay SSS President and Chief Executive Officer Robert Joseph Montes de Claro, tinutuyo sang mga inisyatibo nga ini nga makabulig sa mga ila mga benepisyaryo.
Lucio Co Group, ginbakal na ang PrimeWater sang Villar Group
Ang Villar Group ginapamunuan sang bilyonaryo nga si anay senador Manny Villar.
Ang Crystal Bridges naman ang ginapanag-iyahan sang tycoon nga si Lucio Co.
Wala naman ginsapubliko ang balor sang transaksyon sang pag-acquire sang Crystal Bridges sang 100 percent sang PrimeWater.
Ang PrimeWater amo ang naga-operate sang water kag wastewater infrastructure projects sa bilog nga pungsod, kalakip na ang water district joint ventures, bulk water supply, kag septage and wastewater management services.
Matandaan nga sang Agusto, ginpahayag ni anay Senator Cynthia Villar nga luyag nila ibaligya ang Prime Water bangud wala man sila nagaginasya diri kag ginagamit lang ini sang iban agud gub-an sila sa politika.
Moratorium sa sugar importation, posible nga palawigon
Posible nga palawigon pa sang Department of Agriculture (DA) kag Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) ang moratorium sa sugar importation nga ginalauman nga matapos sa 2026 ukon pagtapos sang milling season.
Ang amo nga tikang, nagatuyo nga maprayoridad ang lokal nga produksyon sang kalamay, ilabi na sa tunga sang mabaskog nga suplay sang kalamay sa pungsod.
Sa isa ka pahayag, ginsiling ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
nga ang polisa gin-anunsyo una sang Oktubre 15, kun sa diin ginpahayag ang posible nga pag-extend sang moratorium matapos ang milling season, depende sa aktwal nga lebel sang sugar stocks.
Ini kasunod sang mas mataas nga raw sugar output sang nagligad nga tuig.
Magluwas sini, ginpahayag man nga nagapreparar ang DA kag SRA sang isa ka regulatory framework para sa molasses importation, nga nagatuyo nga maprotektahan ang mga lokal nga producer sang kalamay kag masiguro ang balanse sa industriya sang amo nga produkto.
DA kag SRA, ginatun-an ang pagpalawig sang moratorium sang pag-angkat sang kalamay
Ginatun-an subong sang Department of Agriculture kag Sugar Regulatory Administration nga palawigon pa ang moratorium sang pag-angkat sang kalamay tubtob sa Disyembre 2026
Ini agud matagaan sang prayoridad ang lokal nga produksyon bangud sa kadamuon sang supply sang kalamay sa pungsod.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., ang pag-ban mahimo pa palawigon depende sa aktwal nga stock levels.
Ginapangabay man sini ang Sugar Regulatory Administration SRA nga bantayan sing hugot ang produksyon sang mga refinery.
Magapatuman man ang DA kag SRA sang government buying program para buligan ang mga mangunguma, samtang magahanda sang regulasyon sa pag-angkat sang molasses.
DBM, nagpagguwa na sang Circular Letter No.
2025-13 para sa padayonh nga paghatag sang PEI para sa Fiscal Year 2025
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Budget and Management (DBM) sang Huwebes nga nagpagguwa na ini sang Circular Letter No.
2025-13 para sa padayonh nga paghatag sang Productivity Enhancement Incentive (PEI) para sa Fiscal Year 2025.
Suno sa DBM, kada kwalipikado nga myembro sang gobyerno ang makabaton sang P5,000, kasunod sa pagsulondan nga nakabutang sa Budget Circular No.
Ginsiling pa sang DBM nga ang P9.24 billion nga pondo para sa PEI sang mga kwalipikado nga sibilyan kag uniformed personnel sang national government para sa 2025 ang ginpagguwa na sa idalom sang 2025 General Appropriations Act.
Rice imports sang Pilipinas sa 2026, magadangat sa halos 4-million MT —DA
Ginapanan-aw nga magalab-ot sa halos four million metric tons (MT) ang iga-procure nga bugas sang Pilipinas sa 2026.
Ini bangud maga-resume na ang rice importation sa Enero kasunod sang apat ka bulan nga importing ban nga ginpatuman sang gobyerno agud nga mapabilin nga estable ang farm-gate prices sang humay sa pungsod.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., magadangat ang import volumes sa tunga-tunga sang 3.6 million kag 3.8 million metric tons.
Lakip sa ginakonsiderar nga factor amo ang forecast sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga magalab-ot sa 20.3-million MT ang palay production sa masunod nga tuig.
Ini ang pareho man sa target kuntani subong nga tuig, apang indi malab-ot bangud sa epekto sang mga pagbaha kag iban pa nga problema dala sang mga bagyo.
Kun mag-umpisa naman ang rice importation sa Enero tubtub sa Pebrero, limitahan lamang ini sa 17 ka mga pantalan sa bilog nga pungsod.
Lakip diri ang Manila, Batangas, Tacloban, Bacolod, Iligan, Cagayan de Oro, Davao, Zamboanga, Cebu, Iloilo, Capiz, Tagbilaran, Dumaguete, Subic, Calbayog, General Santos, kag ang Tabaco.
Remittances sang OFW Padayon nga Nagasaka; ₱186.8B nalab-ot sa bulan sang Oktubre 2025
Naglab-ot sa ₱186.8 billion pesos ang napadala nga kwarta sang mga Pilipino ng nagatrabaho sa guwa sang pungsod sang bulan sang Oktubre.
Suno sa Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) humalin Enero tubtob Oktubre, ang kabug-usan nga padala nag-abot sa ₱1.72 trillion Philippine pesos
Ginpahayag sang BSP nga kadam-an sang padala ang naghalin sa Estados Unidos, Singapore, kag Saudi Arabia.
Ang personal nga padala naman sang kwarta nag-abot sa ₱206.6 billion pesos sang Oktubre, kag ₱1.92 trillion pesos bilyon sa unang tatlo ka quarters sang tuig.
Nahibaluan nga ang Pilipinas isa sa mga pungsod nga may pinakadako nga remittances sa kalibutan.
Ang kwarta nga ginapadala sang mga OFW sa ila pamilya sa pungsod nagabulig sa pagpahamtang sang konsumo sa sulod sang pungsod kag pag-uswag sang ekonomiya.
Philippine Handloom Weaving Festival, naka-generate sang masobra sa P2 milyon nga gross sales
Nagpatigayon sang Philippine Handloom Weaving Festival sa Ilocos Norte ang 120 tanan ka mga mananahi sa bug-os nga Pilipinas.
Ini agud ipabilin ang handloom weaving bilang kabahin sang kultura kag pangabuhian sang mga Pilipino.
Nagikan ang mga ini sa 40 ka komunidad nga nagtipon para ipakita ang ila mga produkto kag talent sa patag sang pagpanahi.
Ang mga produkto halin sa festival naka-generate sang masobra sa P2 milyon nga gross sales, nga nagabulig gid sa pangabuhian sang mga mananahi sa pungsod.
Ginhangyo man sang mga mananahi ang paggamit sang handwoven textiles sa uniporme sang gobyerno kag eskwelahan agud mas mapalapad ang lokal nga demand.
Padayon ang kampanya sang gobyerno kag mga komunidad sa pagpreserba sang handloom weaving, nga nagahatag trabaho kag nagapa-uswag sang kultura sang Pilipinas.
Mga ginapilit nga magsaot sa Christmas party, mahimo mag-file sang reklamo sa DOLE
Ginpahanumdom sang Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) sa mga kumpaniya nga magapatigayon sang mga party kag event subong nga Paskuwa nga dapat respetuhon ang pagpati, relihiyon, kag personal preferences sang kada empleyado.
Suno sa DOLE, may kinamatarong ang mga empleyado nga mag-file sang reklamo sa ahensya kun ginahimo sang kumpaniya nga compulsory ang pagsaot ukon iban pa nga aktibidad sa holidays.
Pahayag sang ahensya, base sa Labor Code, indi mahimo mapilit ang empleyado nga mag-perform ukon mag-intra sa performance ilabi na kun guwa man ini sa iya nga job description.
Mahimo nga ipasaka ang reklamo sa National Labor Relations Commission (NLRC).
Bisan nga wala gin-punish apang gin-harass ukon ginpabudlayan ang empleyado sa trabaho nga mahimo mag-resulta sa constructive dismissal (nga makabig man nga illegal dismissal), mahimo man nga magpasaka sang reklamo.#
Fuel prices, may senintimos nga pagnubo sa masunod nga semana
Maganubo sang senintimos ang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Suno sa ahensya, naka-base ini sa apat ka adlaw nga trading sa Mean of Platts Singapore, apang wala pa nagalakip sang operating cost sang oil companies kag iban pa nga premiums.
Pahayag pa sang ahensya, ang posible nga rollback ang mahimo maangot sa pagkalma naman sang oil prices bangud sang pagtutok sang investors sa peace talks sa tunga sang Russia kag Ukraine.
Mahimo matumod ang final adjustments sa katapusan nga trading subong nga adlaw.
Iga-anunsyo sang oil companies ang official price adjustments sa Lunes, kag dungan nga ipatuman sa Martes sang aga.
DA, ginpataasan ang MSRP sang pula nga sibuyas sa P150 kada kilo
Gintaasan sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) sang pula nga sibuyas.
nga umpisahan subong nga adlaw, Disyembre 11 nga mangin P150 kada kilo na ang presyo sang pula nga sibuyas.
Dugang pa sang tiglikom nga may pila ka mga negosyante ang nagsiling nga ang mga pula nga sibuyas ang halin sa mga local nga mangunguma para depensahan ang mataas nga presyo sang sibuyas apisat nga ang mga ini ang imported.
Nagakuha ang Pilipinas sang mga sibuyas sa pungsod sang China kag India sa tion sang off-season.
Ginklaro niya nga mapadayon sa gihapon sa P120 kada kilo ang presyo sang mga yellow kag white onions.
Nagalaom ang tiglikom nga maki-ugyon ang mga negosyante sa pagpatuman sang MSP ilabi na subong nga Holiday season.
DA, ginpasiguro nga magapadayon nga enough ang suplay sang baboy para sa holiday season
Ginpasiguro sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga magapadayon nga enough ang suplay sang baboy para sa paskwa apisar nga nagpatuman ini sang temporary ban sa pag-import sang mga produkto nga baboy halin sa Spain.
Ini matapos ginkumpirmar ang kaso sang African Swine Fever (ASF) sa amo nga pungsod.
Tiu Laurel Jr., indi magtuga sang pagtaas sang presyo ukon kakulangan sa mercado ang ginpatuman nga import freeze sa live pigs, pork meat, pork skin, kag mangin sa semen para sa artificial insemination.
Ang ban sa pork products gikan sa Spain ang kasunod sang report sang Nobyembre 28 sang Spanish veterinary authorities sa World Organization for Animal Health, kun sa diin ginkumpirmar ang mga kaso sang ASF sa mga wild pig sa Sabadel, Valles Occidental sa Barcelona.
Suno kay Laurel, kinahanglan ang moratorium agud malikawan ang pagpasulod sang ASF virus kag maprotektahan ang ikaayong laws sang local nga mga baboy, amo man ang seguridad sa pagkaon.
Dugang pa niya ang tanan nga sanitary kag phytosanitary permits para sa hog imports halin Spain automatic nga ginbawi.
Nagbukas na subong nga hapon ang Jaro Public Market, Disyembre 10, 2025
Ginpangunahan ini ni City Mayor Raisa Treñas, Vice Mayor Love Baronda, kag iban pa nga mga konsehal sang siudad.
Sa subong may ara sang 547 ka mga stalls ang merkado kun sa diin 293 na ka mga vendors ang may ara na sang pwesto.
Madamo pa ang mga available nga pwesto sa sulod sang establisyamento kag amat-amat naman nga pagasudlon ang iban pa nga mga manugaligya sa masunod nga mga inadlaw.
Pork imports halin sa Taiwan, temporaryo nga gin-ban sa Pilipinas bangud sa ASF
Temporaryo nga gindumilian nga makasulod sa Pilipinas ang buhi nga baboy, karne, kag iban pa nga produkto sini halin sa Taiwan.
Ini matapos ang na-report nga outbreak sang African swine fever (ASF).
Ini ang ikaduha nga import source nga gin-ban ang mga produkto sa Pilipinas subong nga bulan kasunod sang Espanya bangud sa kaangay man nga rason.
Suno sa Department of Agriculture (DA), importante ang ban agud nga indi na maglapta kag maghalit sa local hog industriya ang balatian kag indi na magsaka pa ang presyo sang baboy sa mga merkado.
ang gilayon nga suspension sang tanan nga pork-derived commodities lakip na ang semen nga ginagamit para sa artificial insemination.
Pahayag sang DA, ginkumpirma sang Taiwan Veterinary Research Institute ang outbreak sa mga baboy sa Taichung City kag gin-report ini sa World Organization for Animal Health sang Oktubre 25.
Gin-revoke naman sang DA ang nauna na gin-aprubahan nga import clearances para sa baboy kag pork products halin sa Taiwan.
Suspended man ang bag-o nga mga aplikasyon, kag ginmanduan naman ang veterinary quarantine officers sa major ports nga punggan ang shipments nga nagaunod sang apektado nga items.
Presyo sang gasolina magasaka na epektibo subong nga aga
Magasaka ang presyo sang gasolina epektibo subong nga aga.
Base sa advisories sang oil companies, madugangan sang P1.20 ang presyo sang kada litro sini.
Wala naman sang pagbag-o sa presyo sang kerosene kag diesel.
Ini ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga may price hike sa gasolina, kag pang-34 naman nga saka subong nga tuig.
DA, naglunsyar sang watchdog unit para sa infrastructure projects
Nagpatukod ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sang Interim Social and Environmental Safeguards (SES) Unit agud masiguro ang transparent kag responsable nga pagpatuman sang ila mga infrastructure projects.
Suno kay DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel, Jr., importante ang tikang nga ini ilabi sa pagsaylo sang farm-to-market road (FMR) projects halin sa Department of Public Works and Highways umpisa 2026, kag bilang sabat sa flood control scandal.
Nahibaluan nga masobra sa 60,000 km sang kabug-usan nga 131,000 km sang FMR network ang wala pa napatindog.
Ginpunto man sang SES Unit ang pagsunod sa mga national regulation sang gobyerno amo man ang guideline sang mga development partner, kag siguruhon may proteksyon man sa palibot kag kumunidad ang kadad proyekto.
Presyo sang gasolina, magasaka sang P1.20 kada litro
Magasaka ang presyo sang gasolina epektibo buwas sa aga.
Pila ka mga senador gindayaw ang desisyon sang Korte Suprema nga nagamando nga ibalik ang P60 bilyon nga pondo sang PhilHealth
Ginadayaw sang pila ka mga senador ang desisyon sang Korte Suprema nga nagamando sa gobyerno nga ibalik ang P60 bilyon nga pondo sang PhilHealth nga gintransfer sa National Treasury sang nagligad.
Sherwin Gatchalian, nakasunod na ang gin-aprubahan nga 2026 budget sa mando sang Korte Suprema, kun sa diin may yara ini sang P60B allocation para sa PhilHealth.
Bong Go sa unanonimous decision kag nagpanawagan sang klaro nga explenasyon kon sa diin nagkadto ang P60B nga pondo.
Suno sa Senador isa ini ka dako nga kadalag-an para sa mga Pilipino ilabi na sa mga imol nga pasyente nga labi nga nagakinahanglan sang bulig gikan sa gobyerno.
Risa Hontiveros ang iya pagpasalamat sa Korte Suprema sa pag-kay o sang dako nga sala sang gobyerno.
Nahibaluan nga ang ini nga mando sang pagbalik sang pondo nga P60B paagi sa 2026 General Appropriations Act.
Bukidnon, nagapabilin nga No.1 Agri-producer sa pungsod Pilipinas
Nagapabilin nga number 1 agri producer sa Pilipinas ang probinsya sang Bukidnon nga ginatawag man nga Food Basket of Mindanao.
Ang probinsya amo ang pinakadaku nga kontribyutor sa gross value added sang agriculture, forestry, kag fishery (AFF) sa tuig 2024.
Padayon ang pagtaas sang kontribusyon sang Bukidnon sa agriculture, forestry and fishery umpisa 2022, kag nalapawan na sini ang 81 ka probinsya kag 33 ka highly urbanized cities sa bilog nga pungsod.
Suno sa provincial government, dako ang nabulig sang maayo nga sitwasyon sang ila lugar kun sa diin gingrasyahan ang probinsya sang matag-as nga kabukiran, mga banglid, mga patag nga kadutaan kag natural attractions nga halos indi matandug sang mga bagyo.
Ang probinsya amo ang isa sa mga major producers sang nagkalain-lain nga agricultural commodities sa pungsod, lakip na ang humay, mais, kalamay, kape, goma, pinya, kamatis, kabulakan, kamote, kag indi man magpaulihi sa manok, baboy kag baka.
Ini amo man ang isa sa may pinakadako nga pineapple plantation.
Ang pag-umwad sang Bukidnon sa nagligad nga mga tuig nagapakita sang dako nga pagbag-o sa 1.5 % nga pagnubo nga narekord sang Philippine Agriculture sector sang nagligad nga tuig.
Laurel, nagpabalo nga yara sang dako nga pagbag-o sa rice import strategy sang pungsod
sang dako nga pagbag-o sa rice import strategy sang pungsod.
Ini matapos nga magpagguwa sang isa ka advisory nga nagasiling mas manubo ang kinahanglan nga importasyon sang bugas para sa una nga quarter sang 2026.
Nakatalana nga kakson sang Pilipinas ang apat ka bulan nga import ban sa una nga semana sang Enero.
Ini nga tikang ang makahatag sang palaagyan sa Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) nga liwat magbaton kag magproseso sang application para sa rice importation.
Apisar may pila ka rice varieties nga ginpahanugutan nga makasulod sang tion sang moratorium, kadam-an sa mga commercial shipments ang temporaryo nga gin-untat samtang gina-review sang gobyerno ang local production.
Dako nga oportunidad sa trabaho kag pagtukod sang negosyo sa Canada, ginalauman sang Pilipinas nga mahatag sa mga Pilipino
Ginalauman sang Pilipinas ang mas dako nga oportunidad sa trabaho kag pagtukod sang Negosyo para sa mga Pilipino sa Alberta, Canada.
Sa isa ka opisyal nga pagbisita sa Alberta, nakighinun-anon si Philippine Ambassador Jose Victor Chan-Gonzaga sa Alberta Legislature Building sa Edmonton kag nakigpulong kay Alberta Premier Danielle Smith.
Nakig-istorya man si Chan-Gonzaga kay Alberta Minister of Jobs, Economy, Trade, and Immigration Joseph Schow, kag ginpabutyag ang posibilidad sang mas daku nga kooperasyon sa ekonomiya kag workforce.
Ginkasugtan man sang mga ini ang posibilidad sang mas ginpapag-on nga pagnegosyo kag pagkuha sang skilled workers gikan sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Chan-Gonzaga, compatible ang ekonomiya sang Pilipinas kag Alberta, kag pwede magbinuligay sa teknolohiya, enerhiya, kag iban pa nga sektor.
Ang Alberta may yara sang masobra 200,000 ka mga Pilipino.
Presyo sang diesel kag kerosene, may senintimos nga rollback sa masunod nga semana
Lauman ang senintimos nga pagnubo sa presyo sang diesel kag kerosene sa masunod nga semana.
Sandig sa international fuel trading sa nagligad nga apat ka adlaw, yari ang posible nga adjustment suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau:
Posible naman magsaka sang P0.70 kada litro ang presyo sang gasolina.
Suno sa DOE, wala pa nalakip sa expected amount sang adjustments ang operating cost sang oil companies kag iban pa nga premiums.
Lakip sa ginhinambit nga mga factor nga maangot sa estimated adjustments amo ang nagakatabo sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang kalibutan nga makabig geopolitical concerns.
Halimbawa diri amo ang pag-atake sang Ukraine sa oil infrastructure sang Russia, ang pagsaka sang tension sa tunga sang Estados Unidos kag Venezuela, kag ang global crude oil supply surplus.
Mahimo madeterminar ang final adjustments pagkatapos sang Mean of Platts Singapore trading subong nga Byernes.
Gina-anunsyo sang fuel companies ang opisyal nga price adjustments kada Lunes, kag gina-implementar naman sa kada Martes sang aga.
Sang nagligad nga Disyembre 2, P2.90 ang gin-nubo sa diesel samtang P3.20 naman ang rollback sa kerosene.#
Inflation sa Pilipinas, naghinay sa 1.5 percent sang Nobyembre
Gin-report sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) nga naghinay ang inflation rate sang Pilipinas sa 1.5 percent sa bulan sang Nobyembre.
Ang overall inflation amo ang nagatakos sang rate sang pagsaka sang presyo sang goods and services sa pungsod.
Ini nga numero ang mas mahinay sa 1.7 percent sang October kag September.
Sulod man ini sa 1.1 tubtub sa 1.9 percent nga forecast sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP).
Kun isipon halin sang Enero tubtub sang Nobyembre, may average ang inflation nga 1.6 percent nga mas manubo sa 2 tubtub 4 percent nga target range sang economic managers sang gobyerno.
Sandig sa PSA, may pagnubo sa food inflation sa national level nga yara lamang sa 0.3 percent sang Nobyembre 2025 halin sa 0.2 percent annual increase sang nagligad nga bulan.
Ang core inflation naman —nga wala nagalakip sang pili nga food kag energy items— ang naghinay man sa 2.4 percent sang Nobyembre 2025 halin sa 2.5 percent sang Oktubre 2025.
DA, magapatuman sang MSRP sa baboy kag carrots sa Disyembre 5
Maga-umpisa na sa Biyernes, Disyembre 5, ang pagpatuman sang Department of Agriculture (DA) sang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) para sa baboy kag carrots.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., iga-sapinal na ang mga presyo agud mapabilin nga stable ang presyo sang mga nagapanguna nga balaklon subong nga holiday season.
Gintalana ang Maximum Suggested Retail Price sa P370 kada kilo para sa pork liempo, P350 kada kilo para sa pigue kag kasim, kag P120 kada kilo para sa carrots.
Base sa monitoring sang Department of Agriculture tubtob Disyembre 1, ang presyo sang pork ham sa Metro Manila ang yara sa P270–P390 kada kilo, samtang ang pork belly ang naglab-ot sa P320–P470 kada kilo.
Pilipinas, gin-ban ang pork imports halin sa Spain bangud sa ASF
Gindumilian sang Pilipinas ang pagsulod sang imported nga karne sang baboy halin sa Espanya bangud sa outbreak sang African swine fever (ASF).
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., nag-umpisa ang ban sang Nobyembre 11 kag magalawig tubtub nga makumpirma nga wala na sang kaso sang ASF ang amo nga pungsod.
Ginsiguro sang tiglikom nga indi maapektuhan sang import restriction ang local pork supply.
Pahayag sini, puno pa subong ang tanan nga cold storage facilities sa Pilipinas samtang stable naman ang retail prices sa mga mercado.
Dugang niya, reasonable man ang presyo sang karne sang baboy subong nga Christmas Season; apang bangud sa demand, posible nga may gamay nga pagsaka.
Sandig sa data sang Bureau of Animal Industry, nakapasulod ang Espanya sang 132.05 million kilograms sang karne sa Pilipinas sang Enero tubtub Septyembre subong nga tuig nga naga-reflect sang 11.1-percent nga market share.
Nahibaluan nga ang Espanya amo ang nagapangaduha sa Brazil sa pinakadaku nga source sang Pilipinas sang karne sang baboy.
“Benteng Bigas, Meron Na!”, ginlunsyar sa Dapitan, Dipolog, kag Zamboanga del Norte
ang paglunsyar sang “Benteng Bigas, Meron Na!”, sa Dapitan, Dipolog, kag Zamboanga del Norte.
nga nagatuyo nga mahatagan sang barato nga bugas sang masobra 15 million nga Filipino families sa bug-os nga pungsod.
Suno kay Laurel, nagpain ang programa sang de-kalidad nga bugas sa balor nga P20 kada kilo para sa mga mga kwalipikado nga pamilya sa Dapitan, Dipolog, kag 25 ka mga kabanwahanan sa Zamboanga del Norte.
Lakip sa mga prayoridad nga benepisyaryo ang 4Ps households, senior citizens, PWDs, solo parents, mangunguma, manugpangisda, minimum wage earners, kag transport workers.
Kabahin man sang inisyatibo ang pagbulig sa mga local nga producer.
Direkta man nga nagabakal ang National Food Authority (NFA) sang humay halin sa mga mangunguma, antes ini ipagalin kag ipanagtag bilang subsidized rice sa mga KADIWA sang Pangulo outlets.
Utang sang Pilipinas, naglab-ot na sa P17.
56 trillion humalin sang bulan sang Oktubre 2025
56 trillion ang kabug-usan nga utang sang National Government sang Pilipinas humalin sang bulan sang Oktubre subong nga tuig.
Suno sa datos sang Bureau of the the Treasury ginpabudlay pa gid ini bangud sa mahina nga piso kontra US dollar.
Dugang pa sang Komisyon mas nagtaas pa ang utang sang pungsod sang P106.78 bilyon kumpara sang nagligad nga mga binulan.
Sa domestic debt ginabug-usan sang indi magsobra ukon magnubo sa 68.6% nga naglab-ot sa P12.05 trillion, samtang sa external obligations nagtaas naman sang 5.
64 billion nga isa sa mga rason amo ang paghina sang piso.
Pilipinas, indi na maabot ang target nga pagsanyog sang ekonomiya sa ikatatlo nga sunod nga tuig
Ginapaabot nga indi na maabot sang Pilipinas ang target sini sa pagpasanyog sang ekonomiya sa ikatatlo nga sunod nga tuig sa 2025 matapos ang mas mahina sini nga performance sa ikatatlo nga quarter.
Ini bangud sang mga isyu nga gina-atubang sa korapsyon nga naga-apekto sa kumpiyansa sang mga konsumidor kag mga mamumugon.
Suno kay Department of Economy, Planning, and Development (DepDev) Secretary Arsenio Balisacan, nga malab-ot gid sini ang pinakanubo nga target nga 5.5% tubtob 6.5% nga ginhatag sang inter-agency Development Budget Coordination Committee (DBCC).
Nahibaluan nga ang paghinay sang ekonomiya nagakatabo samtang ang pungsod nagaatubang sang mga isyu sa korapsyon.
Sa karon nagahimo na sang nagkalain-lain nga imbestigasyon ang duha ka kapulungan sang Kongreso kaangot sa irregularidad sa paggasto sang pondo sa public works, kaupod ang imbestigasyon sang Independent Commission for Infrastructure (ICI), nga may mandato nga usisahon ang posibleng anomalya sa flood control projects.
Market vendors sang Mandurriao Public Market, nagpabutyag sang ila hibubun-ot
Nagpabutyag sang kasubo kag pagkadismaya ang pila ka mga market vendors sang Mandurriao Public Market bangud sa ila sitwasyon nga pinabay-an nalang kag wala na ginasapak sang siudad matapos ang pila ka mga opening sang mga bag-o nga renovated markets.
Suno sa ila, sila ang may pinakagamay nga numero sang mga manugbaligya sa market sa siudad sang Iloilo, samtang sila man ang daw halos wala ginahatagan sang atensyon sang gobyerno.
Ginpahayag man nila nga madamo pa ang nagabakal sa ila pero indi gid madula ang kasubo nga wala sang direksyon kun san-o sila pagasayluhon sa bag-o nga building nga para man kuntani sa ila.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Rolyn Gallaza, Sekretarya sang Association of Vendors sa Mandurriao Public Market, iya ginpahayag nga wala sila sang iban nga pilian kundi ang mag-agwanta sa baha kag sa magin-ot nga pwesto.
Suno man sa iya nga wala sang kasiguraduhan kun human na gid man ang bag-o nga merkado ukon wala lang ini maturn-over.
Pahayag man niya nga sa ila pagtan-aw, yara lamang sa 80 ka mga pwesto ang natapos sa bag-o nga building kun sa diin kulang ini para sa 200 ka mga vendors sang Mandurriao Market.
Pahayag man niya nga daw pirme lang sila ulihi kaangay sang natabo sa ila Mandurriao Plaza kag sa subong sa ila naman nga merkado.
Presyo sa produktong petrolyo, may yara sang mixed adjustments subong nga semana
May yara sang mixed adjustment sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo subong semana.
Sa gasoline magataas sang P0.20 kada litro
Sa Diesel maganubo sang P2.90 kada litro
Samtang, sa Kerosene maganubo sang P3.20 kada litro.
Ang ini nga presyo ipatuman epektibo buwas sa aga, Disyembre 2
DA kag NDA, ginlunsyar ang P59 million nga General Tinio Stock Farm sa Nueva Ecija
Ini isa sa mga nagapanguna nga pasilidad para sa pagpasanyog sang dairy sector nga nagatuyo nga padakuon ang numero sang mga baka, pataason ang local nga produksyon sang gatas, kag pasanyugon ang palangabuhian sang mga Filipino dairy farmers.
Suno sa DA, magaserbe nga breeding, development, kag acclimatization hub ang stock farm sa Nueva Ecija para sa mga imported nga dairy animals.
Ginpahayag man ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco P.
nga direkta nga ginatarget sang pasilidad ang isa sa pinakadako nga bottlenecks sang dairy sector nga ginalakipan sang kakulangan sa produktibo nga dairy animals.
Dugang pa niya, ang General Tinio facility isa ka modelo nga luyag sang DA kag NDA nga ipatuman sa iban pa nga bahin sang pungsod agud mapasanyog ang industriya sang mga gatas sa Pilipinas.
DTI, ginklaro nga para lang sa gamay nga pamilya ang P500 nga ‘basic’ Noche Buena budget
Ginklaro ni Trade Secretary Cristina Roque ang iya nauna nga pahayag nga makaigu na ang P500 nga budget para sa Noche Buena.
Suno sa tiglikom, ang iya buot silingon nga budget ang para lamang sa simple nga handa sa Paskuwa sa gamay nga pamilya nga may apat ka miyembro ukon mas manubo pa.
Pahayag pa sini, ginbase lamang niya ang iya pahayag sa Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) Noche Buena price guide.
Usually ang family members na kasya itong P500 is mom, dad, and two children,” pahayag sini sa atubang sang reporters.
Sandig sa price guide, ang pinakabarato suno sa iya amo ang 500g ham nga mabakal sa P170, 250g spaghetti noodles nga P30, kag spaghetti sauce nga P48.50.
Pahayag niya, mahimo pa makadugang sang macaroni salad nga mayonnaise kag cheese.
Suno pa sa tiglikom, ang ham, salad kag pandesal ang mahimo naman makabig nga halos kumpleto na nga basic Noche Buena meal.
Gindugang man ni Roque nga mahimo man makahatagay sang pagkaon ang mga maghimata kag magkasilingan nga amo man ang mahimo makahatag sang lain nga pagkaon sa lamesa.
Nahibaluan nga naka-post naman ang Noche Buena price guide sa DTI website kag sa ila nga social media pages.
Nalakip sa listahan ang presyo para sa ham, pasta, sandwich spread, keso de bola, cheese, fruit cocktail, kaong, kag iban pa.
Kasunod sang pahayag sang DTI, nagpaguwa naman sang mga statement ang pila ka mga mamalidha kaangay kanday Bicol Saro party-list Rep.
Antonio Tinio nga nagakwestyon sa ahensya sa basehan sang presyo sang mga item nga kinahanglan para sa Noche Buena.
Nainsulto naman si Tinio sa statement sang DTI.
This is a slap in the face to every working Filipino struggling to make ends meet,” kabahin sang sabat sang kongresista.#
Lauman ang daku nga rollback sa presyo sang diesel kag kerosene sa una nga semana sang Disyembre.
Suno sa Department of Energy Oil Industry Management Bureau, sandig sa apat ka adlaw nga trade monitoring sang Means of Platts Singapore, yari ang posible pagnubo sa presyo:
Ini nga big-time rollback ang ginaangot sa forecasted oversupply sang produktong petrolyo sa global market nga mahimo makalab-ot sa duha ka milyon nga barrels sang oil production kada adlaw sa masunod nga tuig.
Lakip man sa nakonsiderar nga rason amo ang posible nga peace deal sa tunga sang Russia kag Ukraine nga amo ang mahimo makabawi sang Western sanctions sa Russian oil.
Apang minimal lamang ang epekto sini bangud wala pa na-materialize ang amo nga negosasyon.
Gina-anunsyo sang oil companies ang pinal nga price adjustment sa kada Lunes kag ginapatuman naman epektibo sa kada Martes sang aga.
Presyo sang gasolina, may rollback nga 20 sentimos umpisa buwas
Gin-anunsyo na sang fuel retailers ang pinal nga adjustments para sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo subong nga semana.
Maganubo sang P0.20 ang presyo sang kada litro sang gasolina; samtang magasaka naman sang P0.60 ang kada litro sang diesel, kag magasaka man sang P1.30 ang kada litro sang kerosene.
Ini ang una nga rollback sa gasolina matapos ang anum ka sunod-sunod nga semana nga may yara sang pagsaka sa presyo.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ini naman ang pang-apat nga magkasunod nga semana nga may price hike sa diesel.
Una na nga na-project sang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) nga may mixed movements subong nga semana bangud sa pila ka mga rason kaangay sang global supply, demand, kag geopolitics.
Bag-o nga biometric e-gates sa NAIA, umpisahan na nga i-activate sa masunod nga bulan — NNIC
(NNIC) nga umpisahan na nila ang pag-activate sang mga bag-o nga biometric immigration e-gates sa Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA) sa masunod nga bulan.
Suno sa NNIC, ang plano nga activation sang e-gates sa main gateway sang Pilipinas kabahin sang ila inisyatibo nga mapaayo kag mapadasig ang passenger processing.
Gin-athag man sang kompaniya nga ang e-gates ang iga-operate sang Bureau of Immigration (BI).
Lakip sa mga feature sini ang paggamit sang passport-scanning kag facial-recognition technology, nga nagatuyo nga mabuhinan ang oras sang paghulat sang mga pasahero.
Meat exporters sang UK, nagaplano nga makig-partner sa local companies sa Pilipinas
Interesado ang tatlo ka mga kumpaniya sa United Kingdom nga makig-partner sa lokal nga mga kumpaniya diri sa Pilipinas agud nga mag-suplay sang meat products.
Suno kay Eckley, diri na sa Pilipinas ang tatlo ka meat exporters agud malab-ot ang existing kag bag-o nga mga kliyente kag agud matun-an ang market opportunities sa pungsod.
Pahayag sini, indi nila mabalewala ang Pilipinas bangud amo ini ang pinakadaku nila nga market sa guwa sang Europa.
Plano man nila nga padayunon ang trade missions sa Pilipinas agud nga mabuligan ang meat exporters sang United Kingdom.
Base sa data sang Bureau of Animal Industry, naka-export ang United Kingdom sang 580 metric tons sang karne sa Pilipinas; 1,032 metric tons sang manok; kag 15,372 metric tons sang karne sang baboy as of September.
DA, nagpasalamat sa mga senador matapos aprubahan P184.1-billion nga budget sang ahensya para sa 2026
Nagpalab-ot sang pagpasalamat ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa mga senador matapos aprubahan P184.1-billion nga budget sang ahensya para sa 2026.
Isa ini ka tikang nga nagatuyo pabaskugon ang seguridad sang pagkaon kag padasigon ang pag-umwad sang pungsod.
Sa Plenary debate, nagpasalig man ang mga senador nga bukas sila nga dugangan pa ang pondo sang DA sa nagapalapit nga bicameral conference committee.
Sa subong, masobra 8% lamang sang gross domestic product (GDP) ang nahatag sang agrikultura, apang naghatag naman ini sang trabaho sa isa sa kada lima ka mga Filipino workers.
Laurel, ginmando ang hugot nga pagbantay sa mga supermarket kag wet market
ang mas hugot nga pagbantay sa mga supermarket kag wet market agud masiguro ang husto nga pag-label sang frozen meat.
Ini bilang kabahin sang tikang sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga protektahan ang mga consumer kag local nga manugbaboy.
Direktiba ni Laurel sa Agribusiness and Marketing Assistance Service (AMAS), Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI), kag National Meat Inspection Service (NMIS) nga magpatigayon sang nationwide inspection agud sekyaron ang pagsunod sang mga tindahan kag balaklan sa food safety kag fair trade regulations.
Kadungan ini sang tikang sang DA kag mga local hog producer para i-stabilize ang presyo sang karne sang baboy kag buligan ang mga nagasagod sang baboy nga apektado sang pagnubo sang farmgate prices.
‘5-6’ nga pautang, tapnaon na sang DTI kag BH Party-list
Naghimo sang kasugtanan ang Bagong Henerasyon (BH) Party-list kag Department of Trade and Industry-Small Business Corporation (SB Corp.) para mapalawig ang paghatag sang bulig sa mga magagmay nga negosyo sa pungsod.
Robert Nazal nga ang kasugtanan ang mangin dalan agud mauntat na ang abusado nga “5-6” nga pagpautang sa mga magagmay nga negosyante nga Pilipino.
Suno sa iya, nasulod sa kasugtanan ang pagpautang sang P30,000 tubtob P3 milyon sa micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) nga isa ka porsyento lamang ang interes kada tuig.
Dugang niya, wala man sang collateral kag mahimo nga bayaran sang tubtob sa tatlo ka tuig.
ang ahensya nga may mandato nga magbulig sa mga magagmay nga negosyante.
Maximum SRP para sa sibuyas kag karne sang baboy, ipatuman
Nagaplano ang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga mag-implementar sang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) para sa red onion kag sa karne sang baboy.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., madamo sang imports sa pula nga sibuyas apang wala gihapon naganubo ang presyo sa mga mercado.
Sa inisyal nga plano, P120 kada kilo ang MSRP.
Gina-evaluate pa subong ang plano, apang posible nga ipatuman na ini sa masunod nga semana.
Sa karne naman sang baboy, importante ang MSRP suno sa iya bangud tuman ka nubo ang farmgate price sang baboy kag nagakapierde ang farmers.
Makig-istorya anay ang DA sa mga retailer antes ang implementasyon.#
DA, pinaghahanda ang mga mangingisda sa epekto ng bagyong Tino
Pinaghahanda ng Department of Agriculture (DA) ang mga mangingisda sa epekto ng bagyong Tino sa sektor ng pangisdaa, lalo na ang dulot nitong mga serye ng pagbaha.
Sa abisong inilabas ng DA Disaster Risk Reduction Management Operations Center, pinapayuhan nito ang mga mangingisda na agahang dalhin ang mga bangkang pangisda sa at iba pang gamit pangisda sa mataas at ligtas na lugar.
Pinapayuhan din ng ahensiya ang fisherfolks na planuhin o ipagpaliban ang paglalakbay sa karagatan.
Ito ay dahil na rin sa banta ng storm surge o matataas na daluyong na tiyak na makaka-apekto sa paglalakbay at pangingisda.
Sa mga mayroong palaisdaan, ipinayo ng DA ang early harvest o maagang pag-harvest sa mga alagang isda, alimango, atbpang aquatic products, dahil sa banta ng biglaang pagbaha.
Ipinahahanda rin ng ahensiya ang post-harvest facilities na maaaring magamit, kasunod ng early o forced harvest.
Tulfo, nag-file sang Senate Bill para kakson ang travel tax sang Pilipino
1409 nga nagatuyo nga kakson ang travel tax sang mga Pilipino nga naga-byahe saguwa sang pungsod.
Suno kay Tulfo, ang pagpatuman sang travel tax makapamalabag sa kinamatarong sang mga Pilipino nga magbiyahe kag indi angay nga mangin dugang nga pabug-at sa ila bulsa.
Tuyo sang amo nga hagna nga mangin mas accessible ang pagbyahe para sa mga Pilipino, kasunod sang ASEAN Tourism Agreement nga ginpirmahan sang Pilipinas sang 2002.
Sa subong, ang koleksyon halin sa travel tax amo ang nagapondo sa nagkalain-lain nga ahensya kaangay sang, Tourism Infrastructure and Enterprise Zone Authority nga may 50%, 40% naman sa Commission on Higher Education (CHED), kag 10% sa National Commission for Culture and the Arts (NCCA).
Base sa subong nga travel tax rates, nagalab-ot ini sa, P1,620 tubtob P2,700 ang economy, P810 tubtob P1,350 naman para sa standard reduced, at P300 tubtob P400 para sa mga dependents sang overseas Filipino workers (OFWs).
Presyo sang diesel, magasaka sang masobra P2/L sa masunod nga semana
Magasaka na naman ang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Assistant Director Rodela Romero, ini nga pagtaas ang may kaangtanan paghalog sang trade tensions sa tunga sang US kag China kag mga sanction sang United Kingdom, United States, kag European Union batok sa Russia.
Matandaan nga sang Martes, Oktubre 28, nagsaka man sang P1.20 ang kada litro sang gasolina, P2.00 sa diesel, kag P1.70 sa kerosene.
Gina-anunsyo sang oil companies ang final nga price adjustment sa kada Lunes kag ginapatuman ini sa kada Martes sang aga.#
Malacañang, ginklaro nga indi ‘price freeze’ kundi ‘strict monitoring’ ang ginmandu ni Marcos
Ginklaro sang Malacañang nga indi price freeze ang ginmandu ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
kundi istrikto lamang nga pag-monitor sa mga basic goods tubtub sa year-end.
Ini agud nga masigurado nga indi magsaka ang presyo sang basic and prime commodities sa holiday season tubtub sa katapusan sang tuig.
Pahayag sini, mas nagadamo nga manufacturers kag stakeholders ang naga-kooperar kasunod sang mandu sang presidente.
Presyo sang basic goods, wala sang paghulag sa presyo tubtub sa yearend
Claire Castro, katuyuan sang mandu sang presidente nga mapasiguro nga estable ang presyo sa tunga sang selebrasyon sa holiday season.
Gin-anunsyo ini sang Malacañang samtang nga didto si Marcos sa Malaysia agud magtambong sa 47th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Summit and Related Summits.
“Alinsunod sa kautusan ni Pangulong Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
na hindi magkakaroon ng paggalaw sa mga presyo ng mga bilihin bago ang holiday season, inanunsyo ng DTI na walang price increase sa basic at prime commodities sa bansa hanggang sa matapos ang kasalukuyang taon,” suno kay Castro.
Antes siya nagbiya sa Pilipinas sang Sabado, matandaan nga nagmandu si Marcos sa DTI nga siguruhon nga may istrikto nga pag-monitor kag pag-patuman sang maximum suggested retail prices (MSRP) para sa imported rice kag sa iban pa nga importante kag kinahanglanon nga food items.
Nagmandu man ang punong ehekutibo sa DTI nga padayunon ang koordinasyon sa mga manufacturers agud nga ma-mentenar lang ang lebel sang presyo subong kag malikawan ang mga saka sa presyo.
Presyo sang diesel, nagsaka sang P2/L umpisa subong nga aga
Epektibo na subong nga sa aga, Oktubre 28, ang panibag-o nga pagsaka sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo.
Base sa advisories sang oil companies, nagsaka sang P1.20 ang presyo sa kada litro sang gasolina; P2.00 sa kada litro sang diesel; kag P1.70 kada litro sang kerosene.
Matandaan nga sa projection sang price hikes nga ginpaguwa sang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB), ginplastar nga rason ang prospects sang bag-o nga US sanctions sa Russian oil companies bangud sa gyera sa Ukraine.
Nahinambit man ang pagnubo sang US crude oil inventory bangud sa mabaskog nga refinery demand.
Sang nagligad nga semana, nagsaka ang kada litro sang gasolina sang P0.10, samtang may rollback nga P0.70 sa diesel kag P0.60 sa kerosene.#
Pagpadamo sang crayfish, ginakabig nga oportunidad para sa mga bag-o nga negosyante
Isa ka bag-o nga negosyo ang ginatutukan subong sa Western Visayas, ang pagpadamo sang crayfish, freshwater nga klase sang ”ulang”, nga may mataas nga market value kag demand sa lokal kag internasyonal nga merkado.
Seth Borbon sang Clawseth Aquafarm kag isa ka young farmer, ginpahayag niya nga nagsugod siya sang iya journey sa crayfish farming sang tuig 2023.
Suno sa iya, bag-o pa lang ini nga industriya diri sa Pilipinas kag gamay pa lang ang mga supplier subong, rason nga ginakabig ini nga oportunidad para sa mga bag-o nga negosyante.
Borbon nga freshwater ang crayfish kag pwede ini mapadamo sa mga artificial ponds ukon sa mga drum-based nga set-up nga ginadisenyo para sa controlled environment.
Ginagamit nila ang biofloc technology kag aeration system para masiguro ang limpyo nga tubig kag maayo nga pagtubo sang crayfish.
May mga sensor man sila nga naga-monitor sang temperatura kag pH level sang tubig.
Ginsugid man niya nga importante ang pagtuon sang basic aquaculture kag pagkuha sang training halin sa mga eksperto para masiguro ang kalampusan sang proyekto.
Ginahingyo niya ang mga kabataan nga may interes sa agrikultura nga magtan-aw sang posibilidad sa aquafarming bilang isa ka sustainable nga negosyo.
Borbon, ang mensahe niya sa mga naga-pangita sang bag-o nga oportunidad amo nga indi na kinahanglan maghalin pa sa pungsod para magpangabuhi, pwede na magsugod sang negosyo sa uma gamit ang teknolohiya.
Sugar Regulatory Administration, ginpasalig nga wala sang shortage sa supply sang kalamay
Ginpasalig sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) nga wala sang shortage sa supply sang kalamay apisar nga wala sang ipatuman nga importasyon sa first half sang 2026.
Suno kay SRA Administrator Pablo Azcona, may yara sang bastante nga buffer stock ang pungsod.
Apang pahayag niya, may mga tikang na nga nahitso sa tion nga ma-eksperyensyahan gid man ang kakulang sa kalamay.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Department of Agriculture nga wala sang sugar importation tubtob Mayo ukon Hunyo sa masunod nga tuig agud masolbar ang concerns sa manubo nga presyo sang raw sugar.
Sugar supply, indi pagkulangon apisar wala sang importasyon tubtub sa tunga-tunga sang 2026 —SRA
Ginpasalig sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) nga wala sang matabo nga kakulangan sa suplay sang kalamay sa Pilipinas apisar nga wala sang importasyon tubtub sa una nga anum ka bulan sa 2026.
Suno kay SRA administrator Pablo Azcona, may bastante nga buffer stock sa pungsod kasunod sang milling season nga nagsugod sang Septyembre.
“Mayroon pa tayong about four million bags po na bottlers grade refined sugar na naka-reserve, so kumpleto po iyong reserve stocks natin and ongoing iyong local manufacturing po natin.
So, siguradong-sigurado po wala tayong shortage na mangyayari,” suno kay Azcona.
Pananglitan man nga may sugar shortage, preparado suno sa iya ang gobyerno sa tikang nga himuon.
“So, wala namang need po na mag-worry iyong manufacturers and iyong beverage makers kasi po preparado po iyong gobyerno para doon.”
Matandaan nga una na nga gin-anunsyo sang Department of Agriculture nga indi pwede ang sugar importation tubtub sa May ukon June 2026 agud nga ma-address ang mga problema sa manubo nga presyuhanay sang raw sugar.
Presyo sang gasolina, magasaka sang P0.10/L; Diesel, kerosene, may senintimos nga rollback
Magasaka ang presyo sang gasolina kag maganubo naman ang presyo sang diesel kag kerosene epektibo buwas sa aga, Oktubre 20.
Base sa advisories sang oil companies, magadugang sang P0.10 ang presyo sa kada litro sang gasolina.
May rollback naman nga P0.70 sa diesel kag P0.60 sa kerosene.
Una nga gin-project sang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) nga may matabo nga rollback subong nga semana.
Ginbasehan sang ahensya ang pagsobra sang supply sa crude oil, pagbuhin sa global oil demand forecast, kag ang pagtahaw sang geopolitical risks.
Sang nagligad nga semana, nagsaka sang P0.30 ang kada litro sang gasolina samtang sa kerosene naman may pag-us-os nga P0.20.
Wala sang pagbag-o sa presyo sang diesel sang nagligad nga semana.#
145 ka Rice Processing Systems, madinalag-on nga ginpatukod sa bug-os nga pungsod sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig
Naglab-ot na sa 145 Rice Processing Systems (RPS) ang madinalag-on nga ginpatukod sa bug-os nga pungsod sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig.
Ini sa idalom sang administrasyon ni Pres.
Makabig nga ini ang pinakadako nga investment sa mga bag-o nga imprastruktura sang bugas sa recent history sa pungsod.
Tinutuyo sang programa nga solusyunan ang madugay na nga problema sa kakulangansa mga pasilidad para sa pagpamala kag paggaling sang humay.
DTI, nag-isyu sang Philippine national standard para sa paghimo sang mga parol
Ginlunsar sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) ang labing-una nga Philippine National Standard (PNS) para sa Christmas star lanterns ukon mas kilala nga mga parol.
Sa sini nga standards, gindetalye ang construction and marking requirements agud masigurado nga ang mga parol nga ginahimo para sa Paskuwa ang safe bisan yara sa sulod sang balay ukon pasilidad, ukon sa guwa sini.
Suno kay Trade Secretary Christina Roque, ang bag-o nga polisa amo ang magabulig sa mga magahimo sang parola agud masiguro man ang kalidad sang ila nga produkto kag para nga maka-compete man ini sa hinimuan sang iban.
Pahayag pa sang tiglikom, isa man ini ka pagpakita sang suporta para sa local manufacturers sa idalom sang Tatak Pinoy brand.
Nahibaluan nga ang DTI paagi sa Bureau of Philippine Standards (BPS) ang may yara sang mandato sa idalom sang layi nga mag-develop, mag-implementar, kag mag-coordinate sang standardization activities sa bilog nga Pilipinas.
Nagaserbe man ang BPS bilang national standards body sang pungsod
Finance Secretary Recto, indi pabor nga panubuon ang VAT sa 10%
Pahayag sang tiglikom, kun himuon ini, magaresulta ini sa revenue losses kag mapwersa ang gobyerno nga mangutang para sa regular nga mga galastuhan.
“Lahat ng capital outlay natin — ibig sabihin, lahat ng tulay, kalsada, school building, hospital — inuutang natin.
So kung magbabawas po tayo ng revenue, baka pati ang current operating expenses natin, uutangin na rin natin.”
Si Recto amo ang author sang Expanded VAT law sang 2005 sang siya pa ang senador.
Nagpahayag siya nga gina-respeto man sini ang desisyon sang Kongreso kun repasuhon ukon amyendaran ang VAT system, apang nagpaandam siya nga ang pagpanubo sa rate ang mahimo makaapekto sa fiscal stability sang pungsod.
Nahibaluan nga lakip sa pending mga proposal sa Kamara kag Seado amo nga panubuon ang VAT rate sa 10% samtang nga pasangkaron ang tax base.
May yara man sang ginaduso nga i-grant ang targeted VAT exemptions para sa kinahanglanon gid nga mga balaklon kag serbisyo kaangay sang electricity, fuel, kag food items.
Presyo sang gasolina, magasaka sang P0.30/L epektibo buwas sang aga
Ginpaguwa na sang oil companies ang pinal nga price adjustment para sa produktong-petrolyo nga ipatuman subong nga semana.
Sa gasolina – magasaka sang P0.30 kada litro
Sa kerosene – maganubo sang P0.20 kada litro
Wala naman sang pagbag-o sa presyo sang diesel.
Ini nga adjustment ang kasunod sang pito ka sunod-sunod nga semana sang saka-presyo sa diesel kag sa kerosene.
Una na nga gin-forecast sang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) nga may rollback subong nga semana bangud sa oversupply concerns, pagsaka sang inventory sa United States, US government shutdown, kag ceasefire sa Gaza.
Sa kada Martes sang aga ginapatuman sang oil companies ang price adjustment.
Foreign investors, mataas sa gihapon ang kumpyansa nga mag-invest sa Pilipinas
Padayon nga mataas ang kumpyansa sang mga foreigner nga naga-invest sa Pilipinas sa pihak sang imbestigasyon sa ginapahayag nga korapsyon sa flood control projects.
Ginpahayag ni Go nga padayon sa gihapon ang pagsulod sang mga investments pledges sa pungsod.
Ginsabat man sini ang mga nagalapta nga report sa ginapahayag nga pagnubo sang stock market bangud sa isyu sa imprastraktura, kag gintawag pa niya ini nga fake news.
Suno kay Go, gin-aprubahan na kag ginpadala sa Office of the President ang labing una nga benepisyaryo sang CREATE MORE Act isa ka Korean company nga maga-invest sang masobra $1 billion sa pungsod.
12066) isa ka layi nga nagatuyo nga pabaskugon ang ekonomiya pinaagi sa mga insentibo sa negosyo.
Rice importation ban, natalana nga i-lift sa Enero 2026
Natalana nga i-lift sang Marcos Administration ang rice importation sa Enero 2026 apang liwat ini nga ipatuman sa Pebrero tubtob Abril sa amo man nga tuig.
Suno kay Department of Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., wala sang ‘end date’ ang Executive Order 93 nga nagasuspend sang importasyon sang regular milled kag well-milled rice sa sulod sang 60 ka adlaw sa diin nangin epektibo ini sang Setyembre 1.
Pahayag niya, harvest season ang Pebrero tubtob Abril sa diin ang mga humay sang mga mangunguma amo ang mangin mayor nga supply sa merkado kag indi ang mga imported rice.
Makabaton sang tag-P7,000 nga cash aid ang isa ka milyon nga mga mangunguma sa idalom sang ginaduso nga P6.7 trillion nga budget para sa 2026.
Gin-anunsyo ini ni House Speaker Faustino “Bojie” Dy III kadungan sang joint hearing sang House Committee on Agriculture and Food kag Committee on Ways and Means subong nga adlaw, Oktubre 6.
Pahayag sang Speaker, ihatag ang kuwarta bilang bulig bangud sa kapierdehan sang mga mangunguma dala sang manubo nga farmgate prices sang humay.
Magabulig ini nga tikang suno sa iya sa implementasyon sang Executive Order No.
Sa idalom sini nga order, gin-suspinde ang rice importation agud nga maproteksyunan ang local producers sa oversupply kag sa manubo nga presyo.
Ginpahayag man sang House leader nga naghingyo sila kay President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga himuon na lamang nga cash ang tanan nga subsidiya halin sa Department of Agriculture.
Lakip diri ang ginahatag nga seed subsidy.
Presyo sang kerosene, diesel kag gasolina, magasaka buwas
Ginpaguwa na sang oil companies ang pinal nga price adjustment para sa kerosene, diesel, kag gasolina para subong nga semana.
Epektibo buwas sang aga, magasaka sang P0.20 ang presyo sang kada litro sang gasolina kag kerosene; kag magataas naman sang P0.80 sa kada litro sang diesel.
Ini na ang pang-pito nga sunod-sunod nga semana nga may pagsaka sa presyo sang diesel kag kerosene.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) nga lakip sa mga factor nga ginalantaw sa adjustment sang presyo ang pagpatuman sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika sang bag-o nga sanctions sa Iran.
Magluwas diri, may kahangawa man sa sobra-sobra nga global supply bangud sa natalana nga pagpasaka sang Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries kag ila partners sang production levels sang krudo.#
DA, ipauntat ang pag-import sang bombay sa Pebrero 2026
Ginalantaw sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga temporaryo nga ipa-untat ang pag-import sang bombay umpisa sa Pebrero sa masunod nga tuig.
Ini agud nga mas mahatagan sang prayoridad ang lokal nga harvest kag maprotektahan ang kita sang mga mangunguma samtang ginasiguro nga wala man gina-disrupt ang suplay sa merkado.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., ipatuman ang suspensyon sang importasyon isa ka bulan antes ang peak harvest period.
Tuyo sini nga malikawan ang pag-sobra-sobra sang mga suplay.
Una na nga ginkumpirma sang tiglikom nga gintugutan sang ahensya ang importasyon sang white kag red onions agud nga mapa-us-os ang presyo sang amo nga mga produkto.
Sa datos sang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) sa tuig 2020, ang mga lugar nga may pinakalapad nga talamnan sang bombay sa Pilipinas amo ang Ilocos, Cagayan Valley, Central Luzon, Mindoro, Marinduque, Romblon, kag Palawan.
Presyo sang gasolina, maganubo; Diesel, magasaka sa masunod nga semana
Magabuhin sang senintimos ang presyo sang gasolina samtang magasaka naman ang diesel kag kerosene sa masunod nga semana.
Ginbase pa lamang ini sa international oil trading sa nagligad nga apat ka adlaw.
Gina-anunsyo sa kada Lunes ang opisyal nga price adjustments kag ginapatuman naman ini sang oil companies sa kada Martes sang aga.
Sang nagligad nga Martes, Septyembre 30, nag-rollback man sa presyo sang gasolina sang P0.20, samtang nagsaka naman sang P0.90 ang presyo sang litro sang diesel kag kerosene.
DA, gintugutan ang pag-import sang bombay kag carrots
Nagpasugot ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa pag-import sang pula kag puti nga mga bombay amo man sang carrots.
Suno kay DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., tuyo sini nga tikang nga mapabilin nga estable ang presyo sa lokal nga mga merkado.
Nagsaka suno sa tiglikom ang presyo sang pula nga bombay sa P140-P160 kada kilo sang nagligad nga duha ka semana kag nakit-an nga sobra-sobra ini.
Pahayag sini kadungan sang 47th Meeting sang ASEAN Ministers on Agriculture and Forestry, gintugutan niya nga mag-abot ang imports antes ang inisyal nga target nga Oktubre 15.
Nagalab-ot sa 3,000-5,000 ang import volume para sa red onions.
Nagsugod naman ang importasyon sang white onions sang nagligad nga bulan kag suno sa tiglikom, nagnubo na sa P100-P120 ang presyo subong halin anay sa P160 kada kilo.
Nag-umpisa naman sang Oktubre 1 ang importasyon sang carrots halin sa China, Netherlands, kag Cambodia.
NMIS Region 6, magdiriwang ng ‘Meat Safety Consciousness Week’ upang palakasin ang kaligtasan ng karne
Target ng National Meat Inspection Service (NMIS) Region 6 na mapalakas ang kaalaman ng publiko at ng mga lokal na sektor sa kaligtasan ng karne sa nakatakdang pagdiriwang ng 32nd Meat Safety Consciousness Week mula Oktubre 13 hanggang Oktubre 17, kasabay ng kanilang ika-53 anibersaryo.
April Chavez, kinumpirma niya na ang selebrasyon ngayong taon ay may temang “Karneng Ligtas at Sapat, tungkulin nating lahat tungo sa masaganang Bagong Pilipinas.”
Ayon sa kanya, nakatuon ito sa pagpapalakas ng sektor ng karne sa buong value chain, mula sa katayan hanggang sa hapag-kainan, kasama ang mga lokal na pamahalaan at iba pang katuwang.
Binanggit ni Chavez na pangunahing misyon ng ahensya ang pangangalaga sa kaligtasan ng konsumer na Pilipino sa pamamagitan ng pagtitiyak na malinis at ligtas ang karne na ibinebenta sa pamilihan.
Gayunman, inamin din niyang nananatiling hamon ang pagpapabuti ng mga pasilidad sa katayan.
Sa kasalukuyan, dalawang lisensyadong slaughterhouse lamang ang mayroon sa Region 6, subalit may nakalatag nang plano na madagdagan pa ito sa tulong ng Department of Agriculture.
Ipinaliwanag din niya na ang NMIS ang may responsibilidad sa paglilisensya at pagkilala sa mga slaughterhouse na nakapasa sa pamantayan ng meat safety and quality, at ito ay ikinoklasipika bilang Class A, Double A, o Triple A.
Dagdag pa ni Chavez, mahalaga ang patuloy na partisipasyon ng mga lokal na pamahalaan upang masiguro na ang sektor ng karne ay nananatiling ligtas, sapat, at maayos para sa lahat ng mamimili.
Presyo sang LPG, nagnubo epektibo subong nga adlaw
Ginpatuman epektibo subong nga adlaw, Oktubre 1, ang rollback sang liquefied petroleum gas (LPG).
Sandig sa Petron Corp., nagbuhin ang presyo sang P1.00 per kilogram epektibo kainang kaagahon.
Gina-reflect sini ang international contract price sang LPG para sa bulan sang Oktubre.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginsiling sang Solane nga maganubo ang presyo sang LPG product sang P0.65 per kilogram (VAT inclusive) umpisa 6:00 subong nga aga.
Matandaan nga sang Septyembre 1, nagsaka ang presyo sang Petron LPG sang P0.20 per kilogram.
Pag-phase out sang 3G network sa Pilipinas, magahatag sang mas mabaskug nga koneksyon kag mas malig-on nga ‘digital security’
Padayon nga ginapatuman sang gobyerno kag mga telecommunication companies sa Pilipinas ang pag-phase out sang third-generation o 3G network agud hatagan dalan ang mas madasig, mas masaligan, kag mas moderno nga teknolohiya pareho sang 4G kag 5G.
Sy, Regional Director sang Department of Information and Communications Technology sa Region VI, suno sa iya nga ang pag-phase out sang 3G isa ka estratehiya sang gobyerno agud mapaayo ang kalidad sang internet sa Pilipinas.
Ginpahayag niya nga ang 4G kag 5G nagahatag sang mas mabaskug nga data speed, mas madasig nga response time, kag mas malig-on nga koneksyon, nga kinahanglanon gid sa subong nga panahon sang digital transformation.
Ginpabutyag man ni Sy nga ang pagpauntat sang 3G network magabulig sa pagpabakod sang digital security bangud ang daan nga teknolohiya mas hapos gamiton sa mga cybercrimes kag paglapta sang misinformation.
Suno sa iya, paagi sa pag-phase out sang 3G, mas epektibo nga mabatuan ang mga iligal nga aktibidad nga nagagamit paagi sang 3G system.
Dugang pa, ginpahayag sang Department of Information and Communications Technology nga ang pagpa-untat sang 3G magahatag sang mas daku nga espasyo sa frequency spectrum para sa 4G kag 5G, nga magabulig sa pagpalapad sang serbisyo sang mga telecom providers sa mas madamo nga lugar, lakip na ang mga kabukiran kag mga isla nga limitado pa ang access sa internet.
Ginpanan-aw sang ahensya nga paagi sini nga inisyatibo, mas madamo nga Pilipino ang makabenepisyo sa mas maayo nga koneksyon kag mas epektibo nga digital access.
Suno sa mga datos sang DICT, ginapaabot nga matapos ang phase-out sang 3G sa katapusan sang Setyembre 2025, kag ang bug-os nga pag-decommission sini sa 2026.
Ang mga major nga telecommunication companies pareho sang Globe, Smart, kag DITO nagasuporta sa inisyatibo paagi sa pag-reallocate sang spectrum resources para sa mas abanse nga teknolohiya.
Apang may pila ka sektor sang pumuluyo nga nagapahayag sang kabalaka, ilabi na ang mga nagaestar sa mga lugar nga wala pa sang stable nga 4G kag 5G coverage.
Ginapamangkot nila kun paano sila maka-access sang serbisyo kon wala na sang 3G, kag kun may plano bala ang gobyerno nga maghatag sang alternatibo para sa mga apektado nga users.
Ginpanindugan sang Department of Information and Communications Technology nga padayon ang ila koordinasyon sa mga ahensya sang gobyerno kag mga pribado nga sektor agud masiguro nga ang transition halin sa 3G pakadtu sa 4G kag 5G mangin hapos kag epektibo para sa tanan nga Pilipino.
Budget sponsor sang DOE, ginapanawagan nga suportahan sang ahensya ang suspension sang fuel excise tax
Ginpanawagan ni Congressman Ferdinand Hernandez, budget sponsor sang Department of Energy (DOE), nga suportahan sang ahensya ang pagbukas liwat sang option para sa suspension sang fuel excise tax.
Sa idalom sang Tax Reform for Acceleration and Inclusion (TRAIN) Law, may provisyon nga nagapahanugot sa gobyerno nga i-suspend ang excise tax sa petrolyo kun maglab-ot sa $80 kada barrel ang presyo sang Dubai crude oil.
Apang nag-expire na ang nasambit nga provision.
Sa ginpatigayon nga plenary deliberations para sa 2026 proposed budget sang DOE, ginpamangkot ni Gabriela Party-list Representative Sarah Elago kun may tikang bala nga pagahimuon ang DOE matapos ginpahayag ni Hernandez nga kinahanglan anay sang bag-o nga layi antes makahimo sang suspension ang executive branch.
Ginpahayag pa gid ni Elago nga indi lamang sila nagaduso sang temporaryo nga suspension sang excise taxes sa oil kag petroleum products, kundi ang permanente nga pagbawi ukon pagbasura sini.
Foreign companies, nabatyagan na ang mahina nga sales nga epekto sang flood control scandal
Nabatyagan na sang pila ka mga foreign companies sa sektor sang konstruksyon ang mahina nga baligyaanay bangud sa epekto sang eskandalo sa flood control projects diri sa Pilipinas.
Suno sa European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines (ECCP), bangud may mga proyekto nga gin-hold, na-eksperyensyahan na nila ang reduction sa sales kag ginalantaw nga magalawig pa ini sang sinemana ukon binulan.
Wala pa sang nabaton nga inquiries ang chamber halin sa potensyal nga investors, samtang gina-monitor naman sang European investors ang sitwasyon kag ila ini gina-diskusyunan.
Una na nga gin-ako sang budget officials nga ang pag-repaso sang Department of Public Works and Highways sa mga proyekto lakip na ang flood control projects nga ginadudahan nga may ginaalegar nga kurapsyon ang mahimo mag-resulta sa short-term disruptions sa programa nga pang-imprastraktura sang gobyerno.#
Air fares sang mga byahero sa Oktubre, wala sang pagbag-o
Wala sang pagbag-o sa air fares sang mga byahero sa Oktubre samtang nagapadulong sa tigkalalag sa Nobyembre kag Christmas holidays sa Disyembre bangud nga wala man ginabag-o sang gobyerno ang fuel surcharge.
Sa isa ka advisory, ginsiling sang Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) nga ang fuel surcharge magapabilin sa Level 4 para sa ikatlo nga sunod-sunod nga bulan tubtob Oktubre.
Sa Level 4, ang airlines mahimo makakolekta sang fuel surcharge nga P117 tubtob P342 para sa domestic flights kag P385.7 tubtob P2,867.82 para sa international trips, depende sa kalayuon.
Base sa pag-monitor sang International Air Transport Association, ang jet fuel prices nagtaas sang duwa ka porsyento sa $89.33 per barrel as of Sept.
Sa Asia-Pacific, ang mga presyo nagtimbuok man sa $86.46 kada barrel.
Nagapangabay ang CAB sa mga carriers nga nagaplano nga magkolekta sang fuel surcharge nga magsulat sang application sa ahensya antes ang Oktubre.
Nahibaluan nga ginaantisipar ang flight demand nga magtimbuok sa fourth quarter bangud sa ginalauman nga magbyahe sang mga Pilipino sa sini nga mga binulan.
Laurel, posible nga i-rekomenda nga palawigon pa ang rice import ban sang 15-30 days
Ginakonsiderar sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang rekomendasyon nga palawigon pa ang suspensyon sang pag-import sang bugas.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., nagapadayon pa ang validation sang data, apang base sa iya ginatan-aw subong, posible nga irekomendar ang 15 tubtub 30 ka adlaw nga extension sang importation ban.
Sa iya nakit-an, nagsaka na ang farm-gate prices sang palay sa nagligad nga sinemana partikular sa mga lugar sa Mindanao amo man sa Isabela kag Nueva Ecija.
Pahayag sang tiglikom, sa katapusan sang Septyembre, igapasa na sang ahensya ang rekomendasyon sini kun i-extend ukon panubuon ang import moratorium.
Matandaan nga nag-umpisa ang pagdumili sa rice importation sang Septyembre 1 kasunod sa mandu ni President Bongbong Marcos agud nga maprotektahan ang local farmers sa tunga sang huol nga tuga sang tuman ka nubo nga presyo sang palay subong nga harvest season.#
BSP, ginlimitahan ang withdrawals sa P500,000 kada adlaw
Ginlimitahan sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) ang balor sang payouts ukon withdrawals sa kada transaksyon kada adlaw.
Suno sa central bank, mahimo lamang makakuha sang P500,000 sa kada transaksyon ilabi na subong nga padayon ang imbestigasyon sa ginaalegar nga mga anomaliya sa flood control projects.
Pahayag sang bangko, ang withdrawals nga nagalapaw sa gin-set nga balor ang mahimo lamang himuon ukon ma-facilitate paagi sa check payment, fund transfer, direct credit to deposit accounts, kag iban pa nga paagi paagi sa digital payment platform sang BSFI.
Ginmanduan man ang bangko kag iban pa nga supervised financial institutions nga i-konsiderar ang alerts, red flags, kag makaduluda nga mga indikasyon kaangay sang typologies nga gin-report sang government agencies nga naga-involve sang large or unusual cash transactions sa pag-file sang suspicious transaction reports.
Ini nga direktiba ang natabo kasunod sang anunsyo sang Anti-Money Laundering Council nga gin-freeze sang Court of Appeals ang 135 bank accounts kag 27 insurance policies nga naangot sa mga persona nga involved sa iregularidad sa flood control projects.
DA-Western Visayas, ginapabaskug ang kampanya para sa mais, target ang mas mataas nga ani kag sufficiency level paagi sa mekanisasyon kag teknolohiya
Ginapabaskug sang Department of Agriculture sa Western Visayas ang kampanya para mapaayo ang produksyon sang mais sa rehiyon, paagi sa pagpasanyog sang mekanisasyon kag paggamit sang mga teknolohiya nga base sa siyensya.
Renan Palomo, Regional Focal Person sang Corn and Cassava Program sang Department of Agriculture-Western Visayas, ginpahayag niya nga may yara sang kabug-osan nga 47,111 ka ektarya nga corn area sa rehiyon kag 42,000 ka ektarya lang ginatanum sang yellow corn nga ginagamit bilang feeds para sa mga baboy kag manok.
Ginpunto ni Palomo nga ang average yield subong sang yellow corn amo ang 4.66 metric tons kada ektarya, kag ang target sang ahensya amo nga maabot ang 6 metric tons para mas mapaayo ang sufficiency level sang mais sa Western Visayas.
Ginpahayag man niya nga sa tuig 2024, ginatarget sang ahensya nga maabot ang projected sufficiency level nga 57.3%.
Gindugang pa ni Palomo nga isa sa mga tinutuyo sang ahensya amo ang pagpasangkad sang mechanization program kag pagduso sang paggamit sang mga teknolohiya nga ginbase sa siyensya para mabuligan ang mga mangunguma nga mangin mas epektibo kag mas produktibo.
Gin-anunsyo man niya nga sa palaabuton nga Setyembre 22-26, pagahiwaton ang 18th Philippine National Corn Congress para sa Visayas cluster kag ini nga aktibidad isa ka national event nga pagatambongan sang mga resource persons halin sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang Pilipinas.
Pagatalakayon diri ang mga direksyon kag estratehiya sang corn industry sa bilog nga pungsod, lakip na ang livestock industry, marketing opportunities, potential market, kag ang paggamit sang bio fertilizers bilang kabahin sang padayon nga pagbangon halin sa epekto sang African Swine Fever (ASF).
Presyo sang gasolina kag diesel, magasaka na naman sa masunod nga semana
Magasaka na naman ang presyo sang gatong sa masunod nga semana.
Base sa nauna nga tatlo ka trading days, yari ang adjustment:
Kun ma-sustain subong nga adlaw, ini na ang pang-anum nga semana sang price hike sa gasoline kag pang-lima naman sa diesel.
Sa gasolina, ang total hike nagalab-ot na sa P3.10/L ,samtang sa diesel prices naman nagdangat na ang saka sa P3.40/L.
Ginalantaw sang oil companies nga mayor nga rason kun ngaa wala nagabahar ang presyo amo ang geopolitical conflict sa tunga sang Russia kag Ukraine samtang nga nagabalos ang Ukraine sa pag-atake sa Russian energy facilities.
Philippine auto sales, nagnubo sang 7.6% sang Agusto
Naapektuhan gid sang “tagkiliwi” ang automotive industry sa Pilipinas sang Agusto.
(CAMPI) kag Truck Manufacturers Association (TMA), nag-us-os sang 7.6% ang sales sa mga passenger cars kag commercial vehicles sang amo nga bulan.
Nagnubo ini sa 36,174 sang nagligad nga bulan nga mas manubo sa 39,155 units sa amo man nga period sang 2024.
Kun bulanan naman ang basehan, 5.5% ang gin-nubo sang vehicle sales halin sa 38,295 units nga nagabaligya sang Hulyo.
Kun pahat-pahaton, may decrease nga 3.5% ang sales sang commercial vehicles halin sa 29,626 units sang August 2024 pakadto sa 28,583 sa August 2025.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang sales sa passenger cars nag-us-os man sang 20.3% sa 7,591 units sini nga tuig halin sa 9,529 units sang August 2024.
Apisar sini nga numero, nagapabilin nga positibo ang CAMPI nga makabawi kag magsaka ang car sales sa nabilin nga apat ka bulan subong nga tuig.
Ginasaligan sang industry group ang “evolving consumer preferences” kag ang pagsaylo sa “sustainable mobility”.
Presyo sang gasolina, diesel, kag kerosene, magasaka na naman buwas
Ginpaguwa na sang oil companies ang final nga price adjustments nga ipatuman buwas, Septyembre 16, para sa mga produktong-petrolyo.
Ini na ang pang-lima nga sunod-sunod nga saka sa gasolina kag pang-apat naman nga sunod-sunod nga semana para sa diesel kag kerosene.
Lakip sa ginaangot nga mga rason sa pagsaka sang presyo amo ang atake sang Israel sa Doha, Qatar, ang pagsulod sang Russian drones sa airspace sa Poland.
Trabahador sa transport sector, kwalipikado nga makabakal sang bugas sa presyo nga P20 kada kilo
Mangin kwalipikado na ang mga trabahador sa transport sector nga makabakal sang bugas sa presyo nga P20 kada kilo.
Suno sa Department of Agriculture, ini magasugod sa Martes nga adlaw, Setyembre 16.
Ginpahayag sang DA nga may 57,000 ka public transport workers ang ginapaabot nga makabenepisyo sa nasambit nga programa sa inisyal nga pagpapatuman sini.
Kalakip sa mga kwalipikado amo ang mga bus, jeepney, kag tricycle drivers, pati na ang mga transport operators.
Sa idalom sang programa, ang mga kwalipikado nga drivers kag operators ginatugutan nga makabakal sang tubtob 10 ka kilo sang bugas kada bulan sa naka-subsidiya nga presyo nga P20/kilo.
Ang ini nga tikang kabahin sang kampanya sang gobyerno nga maghatag sang mas abot-kaya nga presyo sang pagkaon sa mga sektor nga apektado sang padayon nga pagtaas sang presyo sang mga balaklon.
Mga negosyo sa Pilipinas, mahinay gihapon sa pag-adoptar sa AI —pagtuon
Nagguwa sa isa ka pagtuon sang Philippine Institute for Development Studies nga mahinay sa gihapon ang mga negosyo sa Pilipinas sa pag-adoptar artificial intelligence ukon A.I.
Nakasaad sa report nga 14.9 percent lamang ang nagagamit sang AI bisan nga may yara man sang access sa internet.
Base sa sini nga pagtuon nga may titulo “Readiness for AI Adoption of Philippine Business and Industry: The Government’s Role in Fostering Innovation- and AI-Driven Industrial Development,” naka-konsentrar lamang ang AI adoption sa dalagku nga mga kumpaniya sa urban centers.
Ang mga sector nga may pinakamataas nga AI adoption amo ang information and communications technology nga may 7.19 percent kag business process outsourcing ukon BPO nga may 5.94 percent.
Nahibaluan nga sa data sang Philippine Statistics Authority, 90.8 percent sa mga establisyemento sa pungsod ang may yara sang computers kag 81 percent ang may internet access.
Base sa mga author sang pagtuon nga sanday PIDS senior research fellow Francis Mark Quimba, former supervising research specialist Neil Irwin Moreno kag former research analyst Alliah Mae Salazar, ang mayor nga mga balabag sa paggamit sang AI amo ang limitado nga digital infrastructure, manubo nga ihibalo kaangot sa Al technologies, kakulang sa mga ikasangkol, kag indi bastante nga pondo.
Lakip sa ginarekomendar sang pagtuon nga dapat magpokus gid ang gobyerno sa pagpa-uswag sang imprastruktura, ilabi na gid sa paghatag prioridad sa pagpasangad sang broadband connectivity, ilabi na sa mga lugar nga kulang sang serbisyo.
Ginpahayag man sang pagtuon nga kinahanglan mag-invest sa mga data center kag cloud computing facilities agud masuportahan ang nagadamo nga kinahanglanon sa datos.
Dugang pa, ginpunto sang pagtuon ang kinahanglanon nga magpokus sa pagpauswag sang human capital paagi sa pag-set sang clear metrics para sa pagtakos sa AI talent development outcomes.
Ginarekomendar man sang pagtuon nga pagatukibon ang regulatory frameworks, pagpasanyog sang kooperasyon sa tunga sang gobyerno kag pribado nga sektor, kag paghimo sang mga giya para sa responsable nga paggamit sang sini nga teknolohiya.#
DA, ginpasiguro nga magapadayon ang pagnubo sang presyo sang bugas tubtob sa tuig 2026
Ginpasiguro sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga magapadayon ang pagnubo sang presyo sang bugas tubtob sa tuig 2026.
Suno kay Agriculture Assistant Secretary Arnel de Mesa, apisar pa nga may pagtaas sa presyo sang mga ulutanon, isda, kag karne, padayon naman nga naganubo ang presyo sang bugas.
Ini ang resulta sang pagnubo man sang presyo sa international market.
Pahayag pa ni De Mesa nga ini ang epekto sang mataas nga rice production sa pila ka mga pungsod, partikular na sa India kag Vietnam.
Dugang pa niya, makita na ang epekto sang temporary rice importation ban nga ginpatuman sang gobyerno.
Ginsiguro man sang opisyal nga indi gid tuman nga maapektuhan ang farm gate price sang humay sang lokal nga mga mangunguma bangud sang mga gina-implementar nga polisa.
Presyo sang gatong, magasaka na naman sa masunod nga semana
Ini na ang pang-apat nga sunod-sunod nga hike sa presyo sang gasolina, kag pang-tatlo naman nga sunod-sunod nga semana sang saka para sa diesel kag kerosene.
Ginbase ini sa resulta sang international fuel trading sa nagligad nga apat ka adlaw suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero.
Gintumod sang ahensya nga rason ang international developments nga may impluwensya sa world petroleum market.
Gina-anunsyo sang oil firms ang adjustments sa kada Lunes kag ginapatuman naman ini epektibo sa kada Martes sang aga.
Pagbalik sang VAT rate sa 10%, ginduso sa Kamara
Ginaduso sa Kamara nga buhinan ang value-added tax (VAT) halin sa 12% pakadto sa 10% agud mabuligan nga magnubo ang inflation ukon pagsaka sang presyo sang mga produkto.
Suno sa iya, nagdako na gid ang nakuha sang gobyerno sa VAT halin P156.67 bilyon sang 2005 tubtob P1.20 trilyon sa 2024, gani masarangan pa gihapon nga ibanan sa 10% bisan pa madula ang P200 bilyon nga kita.
Ginsiling ni Leviste nga mabug-at ang VAT labi na sa mga pigado kag middle class, gani makabulig gid kun ibanan ukon buhinan ini para mangin patas ang sistema sang buwis kag malikawan ang mataas nga inflation.
Ginsiling man niya nga ang 12% VAT sa Pilipinas ang pinakamataas sa Southeast Asia ipaanggid sa iban nga pungsod pareho sang Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, Laos, kag Myanmar.
Ang ini nga ginaduso nga hagna nagatugot man nga temporaryo nga ibalik sa 12% ang VAT kon sobra sa target ang budget deficit sang gobyerno.
Ginsiling naman ni Finance Undersecretary Karlo Adriano nga pagatun-an nila ang proposal.
DA, nagpatigayon sang koordinasyon kontra Price Manipulation sa tunga sang Rice Import Ban
Nagapadayon ang hugot nga pagbantay sang Department of Agriculture sa epekto sang temporaryo nga suspensyon sang rice importation nga nag-umpisa sang Lunes.
Suno kay DA Spokesperson Assistant Secretary Arnel De Mesa, kaupod sang Department of Agriculture ang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI), Philippine National Police (PNP), kag mga local government units sa pagpatigayon sang market rounds agud siguruhon nga wala ginaabusar ang presyo sang bugas.
Apisar nagtaas ang presyo sang imported rice, ginpahayag sang opisyal nga nagapabilin nga wala sang pagbag-o sa presyo sang lokal nga commercial rice.
Nagapadayon man ang konsultasyon sa mga importers, retailers, kag iban pa nga stakeholders agud malikawan ang price manipulation.
Tubig para sa kaunlaran: panawagan na bigyang-pansin ang irigasyon, tulad ng mga proyekto sa ‘flood control’
Sa halip na ituring ang tubig bilang kalaban, hinikayat ng mga eksperto ang pamahalaan na gamitin ito bilang kakampi sa pag-unlad ng agrikultura sa pamamagitan ng mas malawak at epektibong irigasyon.
Matagal nang inuuna ng bansa ang pagtatayo ng mga pader, kanal, at iba pang flood control structures para labanan ang baha.
Ngunit sa kabila ng halos dalawang libo’t tatlong daang milimetrong taunang pag-ulan, nananatiling kapos sa tubig ang mga magsasaka.
Sa kasalukuyan, 2.15 milyong ektarya lamang ng lupa ang may irigasyon, mula sa potensyal na 3.1 milyong ektarya.
Ang kakulangan na ito ang sanhi ng pabagu-bagong ani, lalo na ng palay.
Nakakabigla ang pagkakaiba sa badyet: sa 2025, halos 346 na bilyong piso ang inilaan sa flood control, habang 69 bilyon lamang sa irigasyon — limang beses na mas maliit.
Isa pang isyu ay ang pagkawala ng irrigation service fee sa ilalim ng Free Irrigation Service Act.
Bagama’t maganda ang layunin, nawala ang maliit ngunit mahalagang pondo para sa pang-araw-araw na maintenance ng mga irigasyon.
Iminumungkahi ngayon ang pagbabalik ng community-based approach: bigyang-kapangyarihan ang irrigators’ associations na mangolekta ng makatuwirang kontribusyon para sa maintenance, at gantimpalaan ang mga asosasyong lalampas sa target sa pamamagitan ng kagamitan, training, at pondo para sa reinvestment.
Bukod dito, dapat muling gamitin ang bond financing — hindi lang para sa konstruksiyon kundi para sa tuloy-tuloy na maintenance.
Ito ay napatunayan nang gumana noong 2006 at 2009, ngunit natutunan din ang leksyon: walang saysay ang pag-rehabilitate kung wala namang pondo para sa pagpapanatili.
Sa harap ng lumalakas na produksyon ng palay ngayong taon, naniniwala ang mga tagapagtaguyod ng reporma na ang tunay na pag-unlad ay magmumula sa irigasyon — hindi sa pagpigil ng baha, kundi sa mas matalinong paggamit ng tubig para sa pagkain at kabuhayan ng lahat.
Wala sang pagbag-o sa bayaran nga fuel surcharge sa Septyembre.
Ini matapos gin-anunsyo sang Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) nga Level 4 sa gihapon ang sundon kaangay subong nga Agusto.
Sa idalom sini, P117-P342 ang bayaran nga fuel surcharge sa local nga mga byahe; samtang kun magakadto naman sa luwas sang pungsod, P385 tubtub sa P2,867 ang kinahanglan nga idugang.
Ang fuel surcharge amo ang dugang nga balayran sa airlines agud mabuligan ang paluparan nga maka-recover sa gasto sa fuel.
Separado pa gid ini sa base fare nga amo naman ang actual amount nga ginabayaran sang pasahero para sa isa ka pulungkuan sa eroplano.
Oil price hike, posible ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
Ginapanan-aw nga liwat nga magataas ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana bangud sa nagataas nga global oil production kag ang ginapatuman nga tariff rates sang Estados Unidos.
Suno kay Director Rino Abad sang Department of Energy Oil Industry Management Bureau, ang masunod nga pagtaas sa presyo ang base sa apat ka adlaw nga trading sa Mean of Platts Singapore:
Gintumod ni Abad nga nangin stable ang oil prices sa nagligad nga tatlo ka adlaw nga trading gani manubo ang tsansa nga magnubo ini sa ulihi nga trading day.
China, nagaplano sang trade mission sa Pilipinas sa Oktubre
Gin-anunsyo sang Philippine Embassy in Beijing nga nagaplano ang China nga magpadala sang trade delegation sa Pilipinas sa Oktubre subong nga tuig.
Tuyo sini nga mapasangkad pa ang oportunidad sa pag-invest sa nanuhay-tuhay nga areas lakip na sa enerhiya, teknolohiya, agrikultura, manufacturing, turismo, kag iban pa.
Wala pa sang ginpaguwa nga dugang nga detalye kaangot sa plano.
Ini nga investment mission ang kasunod sang trade symposium nga gin-organisar sang embahada, Department of Trade and Industry, kag mga tiglawas sang Philippines-China business chambers sang nagligad nga Agusto 22.
Suno kay Philippine Ambassador Jaime FlorCruz, isa ka welcome development ang business exchanges sa tunga sang Pilipinas kag China ilabi na kadungan sang ika-50 nga anibersaryo sang diplomatic relations sang duha ka pungsod subong nga tuig.
Ang China amo ang pinakadaku nga trading partner sang Pilipinas; kag ini man ang ika-apat sa pinakadaku nga source sang Pilipinas sang investments para sa period nga Enero tubtub Hunyo 2025.
‘Konektadong Pinoy’ bill, inaasahang maging batas na kahit walang pirma ng Pangulo
Hindi na pipigilan ni Pangulong Marcos ang pagpasa ng kontrobersyal na “Konektadong Pinoy” bill, na inaasahang kusa nang magiging batas pagdating ng Agosto 24, ayon sa Department of Information and Communications Technology.
Kinumpirma ni DICT Secretary Henry Aguda na walang indikasyong i-ve-veto ng Pangulo ang panukala, na layong pabilisin ang licensing process, itaguyod ang infrastructure sharing, at payagan ang mas maliliit na kumpanya na mag-invest sa data transmission kahit walang legislative franchise.
Bagamat suportado ng gobyerno, umani ito ng batikos mula sa malalaking telco companies na nag-aalalang maapektuhan ang kanilang operasyon at seguridad.
Gayunman, tiniyak ng DICT na lalahok ang mga telco sa pagbalangkas ng implementing rules and regulations o IRR.
Presyo sang karne sang baboy, magasaka sa ‘ber’ months
Magasaka ang presyo sang karne sang baboy sa palaabuton nga “ber” months.
Bangud sini, posible magtupa ang retail price sa P350 per kilo.
“‘Ber’ months na, of course, tataas na ulit ang mamimili ng local [pork] so expected na tataas na rin ang farm-gate price,” suno kay Eric Harina, president sang grupo.
Ginaangot gihapon ang mahina nga produksyon sang karne sang baboy sa padayon nga mga kaso sang African Swine Fever.
Ginahulat man gihapon sang industriya ang commercial availability sang bakuna batok sa sini nga balatian sa baboy.
Pagbabago sa preference sang Pilipino pag-abot sa bugas, ginapasekyar na sang DA
Ginapasekyar na subong sang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa pagpanguna ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
ang pagbag-o kag padayon nga pagbakal sang mga Pilipino sa imported rice sa merkado.
Ginmanduan sang opisyal ang Rice Industry Development Office (RIDO) agud pangunahan ang imbestigasyon sa padayon nga pagpili sang mga manugbakal sang imported nga mga bugas particular na ang mga bugas nga gina-import halin sa Vietnam.
Suno kay Laurel, ang mga pagbag-o nga ini ang possible senyales sang pagbag-o man sang mga prayoridad sang mga manugbakal kun sa diin mas ginapili sini ang may kalidad kaysa sa mas madamo.
Samtang, tinutuyo man sang amo nga direktiba nga makahimo pa sang mga kongkreto nga rekomendasyon nga amo ang makapabaskog sang suporta para sa mga local nga nga mangunguma kag mangin mga rice millers sa sulod sang pungsod agud mas mapabaskog man ang kapasidad sini para sa ekportasyon.
Presyo sang gatong, magasaka sa masunod nga semana
Magasaka ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau, yari ang posible nga pagtaas base pa lamang sa four-day trade monitoring:
Mahimo ini madugangan pa suno sa DOE depende sa katapusan nga adlaw sang trading.
15 na sinasabi po nila, mataas yung kanilang refinery demand,” suno kay DOE Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero.
Ginaangot man ini sa geopolitical tension sa tunga sang US kag Russia, ilabi na bangud wala sang nadihon nga peace deal sanday President Donald Trump kag President Vladimir Putin sang nagkit-anay sila sa summit sa Alaska sang nagligad nga Sabado.
Ang Russia ang third-largest oil supplier suno sa ahensya gani nga reactive ang oil prices sa political activities sang amo nga pungsod.#
Gin-report sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang isa ka daku nga pagnubo sa mga kaso sang African swine fever (ASF) kon ipaanggid sa amo man nga panahon sang 2024 walay sapayan sang gamay nga pagtaas sini nga bulan.
Suno sa Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI), sang Agosto 7, ang ASF-affected villagesnagdugang sa 51 halin sa 28 sang Hulyo 11.
Sang 2024, ang DA nakarekord sang pagtaas sang mga kaso sang ASF sa ikatlo nga quarter, nga ang una nga mga kaso nagguwa sa Lobo, Lian, Rosario, Calatagan kag Lipa City sa Batangas.
Para sa sini nga tuig, si De Mesa nagsiling nga ang posibilidad sang pagbangon liwat mahimo nga manubo bangud sang kontrolado sang gobyerno nga paglunsar sang bakuna kag mas estrikto nga mga border measures.
Crypto market sa Pilipinas, padayon nga legal basta rehistrado — SEC
Padayonun ang operasyon sang cryptocurrency sa Pilipinas, suno sa Securities and Exchange Commission.
Ginpaathag sang ahensya nga wala ginadumilian ang trading basta ang mga Crypto Asset Service Providers may rehistro kag lisensya.
Tuyo sang regulasyon nga maprotektahan ang investors, mapabilin ang integridad sang merkado, kag masiguro ang patas nga kompetisyon.
Ginpahayag man sang SEC nga mahimo sila mag-imbestigar kag maghimo sang tikang batok sa mga unregistered CASPs, lakip na ang pagpugong sang access sa ila platforms.
Base sa datos, naglab-ut sa 750,000 ang crypto users sa Pilipinas sang pandemya, kag ika-walo ang pungsod sa kalibutan sa cryptocurrency adoption suno sa Chainalysis.
‘Di epektibong flood control projects, nagpapalala sa pinsala sa sektor ng agrikultura tuwing may kalamidad – DA
Itinuturong isa sa dahilan ng Department of Agriculture (DA) sa paglala pa ng pinsala sa sektor ng agrikultura sa bansa tuwing may tumatamang kalamidad ang hindi epektibo na ilang flood control projects.
Arnel de Mesa, kung epektibo lamang ang flood control projects ay mas kakaunti ang pinsala sa sektor ng agrikultura.
Iniulat ng opisyal na pumapalo sa 500,000 hanggang 600,000 metrikong tonelada ang natatamong danyos sa agrikultura kada taon dahil sa matitinding pagbaha, na karamihang nasasalanta ay ang mga palay.
de Mesa na kung madali lamang humupa ang mga baha, mabilis lang din sana ang pag-rekober ng palay dahil pinapatubigan naman talaga ito subalit hindi nito kakayanin kung matagal na nakababad sa tubig-baha.
Maliban pa sa palay at crops, sinabi din ng DA official na maaaring humantong ang mga pagbaha sa pagkamatay ng livestocks at pinsala sa mga pasilidad para sa irigasyon at agricultural infrastructure.
Matatandaan, noong Hulyo, iniulat ng DA na papalo sa P3.53 billion ang pinagsamang halaga ng pinsala sa pananalasa ng magkakasunod na bagyong Crising, Dante at Emong at hanging habagat.
Kaugnay nito, sa halip aniya na pondohan ang flood control projects na napatunayan ng hindi epektibo, maigi aniyang gamitin na lamang ang mga pondo para sa irrigation facilities na magbebenepisyo sa mga magsasaka at sa output ng agrikultura sa bansa.
Sa pamamagitan aniya ng dagdag na pondo para sa irrigation projects, makakatulong ito para makapagpatayo ang DA at National Irrigation Administration (NIA) ng mas maraming drainage at water impounding projects gaya ng mga dam, na magiimbak ng mga tubig-baha at gagamitin para sa irigasyon.
Presyo sang palay sa rehiyon, nagataas na; import ban, daku nga bulig sa mga mangunguma — DA Region VI
Sa tunga sang pagtaas sang presyo sang palay sa iban nga rehiyon matapos ang ginpatuman nga import ban, ginpahayag sang Department of Agriculture sa Western Visayas nga diri sa aton, nagataas man ang farm gate price bisan gamay pa lang ang na-harvest sa mga kaumahan.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Maria Teresa T.
Solis, OIC-RTD for Operations and Extension sang Department of Agriculture–Western Visayas, ginpahayag nga sa subong gamay pa lang nga porsyento sang palay ang na-harvest sa mga uma sa rehiyon.
Base sa ila monitoring, ang presyo sang wet palay nagasugod sa 12 pesos tubtob 14 pesos kada kilo, samtang ang dry palay nagalab-ot sa 14 tubtob 20 pesos.
Ginpabutyag man nga mas mataas ang presyo sang palay nga ginabakal sang National Food Authority (NFA), nga nagalab-ot sa 22 tubtob 24 pesos kada kilo.
Gintalana sang ahensya nga mataas gid ang farm gate price sa subong, kag ginpasalamatan ang desisyon sang Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sa pagsuspende sang importasyon sang bugas sulod sang duha ka bulan.
Ginpahayag nga ini nga tikang dako nga bulig sa mga mangunguma sa rehiyon.
Ginalantaw man sang ahensya nga ang kontrolado nga importasyon kag pagtaas sang taripa sa bugas halin sa guwa posible makahatag sang dugang nga proteksyon sa lokal nga produksyon.
Overseas remittances, tumaas ng 4% sa Hunyo dahil sa mas mabilis na padala ng land-based OFWs
Patuloy ang pag-angat ng remittances mula sa overseas Filipinos matapos iulat ng Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas ang halos 4% na pagtaas noong Hunyo.
Batay sa datos, umabot sa $2.99 billion ang kabuuang cash remittances, mas mataas kumpara sa $2.88 billion sa kaparehong buwan noong nakaraang taon.
Pinangunahan ng land-based OFWs ang pagtaas na may $2.43 billion o mahigit 81 porsyento ng kabuuang remittances, habang $555 million naman ang mula sa sea-based workers.
Mula Enero hanggang Hunyo, nakapagtala na ng $16.75 billion na cash remittances, tumaas ng 3.1% kumpara noong unang kalahati ng 2024.
Nanatiling pangunahing pinagmumulan ang Estados Unidos na may 40 porsyento, kasunod ang Singapore, Saudi Arabia, at Japan.
Personal remittances, kabilang ang cash at in-kind transfers, tumaas din ng 3.7% sa $3.33 billion para sa buwan ng Hunyo.
DBM Secretary, nagpasalig nga may pondo para sa P20 per kilo rice program sa 2026
May yara sa gihapon sang pondo ang P20 per kilo rice program sang gobyerno sa masunod nga tuig.
Suno kay Budget Secretary Amenah Pangandaman nga nalakip sagihapon ang nasambit nga programa sa proposed nga pondo para sa 2026.
Suno diri, ini ang may budget nga masobra sa P10 billion kag napaidalom sa rice for all program sang Department of Agriculture.
Tinutuyo man sang budget nga padamuon ang mga posible magbakal sang masarangan nga presyo sang bugas.
Sa subong, nalakip naman ang mga mangunguma sa mahimo makabakal sang P20/kilo nga bugas matapos magsugod na nga magbaligya ang 18 warehouses sang National Food Authority sa Central kag Northern Luzon.
Links kag icons sa online gambling sites, ginpakakas na sang BSP sa mga Ee-wallet
Ginhatagan sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) ang mga e-wallet sang 48 oras ukon duha ka adlaw agud nga pangkuhaon nila ang icons kag links sang mga online gambling platforms.
Ginpahayag ini ni BSP Deputy Governor Mamerto Tangonan kadungan sang hearing sang Senate Committee on Games and Amusement nga nagatutok sa online gambling.
Pahayag sini, sa Domingo, wala na dapat sang koneksyon ang mga e-wallet sa mga online gaming platforms.
Ginpaathag sini nga naghatag man sila sang ligwa nga 48 oras agud nga may tyempo ang supervising institutions sang BSP nga makakas ang in-app links kag icons sa gambling sites.
Isa pa suno sa iya, kinahanglan man sang customers ukon consumers nga ma-withdraw ang ila funds halin sa online gaming account kun mahibaluan nila nga ginapangkuha na ang links halin sa mobile payment applications kag websites.
Nagpaandam naman ang committee chair nga Sen.
Erwin Tulfo nga i-cite in contempt niya ang mga opisyal sang BSP kun may makit-an pa siya nga link kag icon sang mga online gambling sa mga e-wallet providers pag-abot sang Domingo sang aga.
Nagdugang ini nga indi dapat paghimuon nga lahog ang gina-istoryahan sa Senate hearing bangud krisis na ang ginadiskusyunan kag dapat nga tapnaon.
“‘Huwag niyong biru-biruin ang komiteng ito.
When you say huling oras ng Saturday [ang deadline], sige pagbibigyan kita hanggang Sunday.
‘Pag Sunday morning meron pa ring mga games sa e-wallets, iko-contempt ka namin,” suno kay kay Tulfo.
Lakip sa naghatag sang response amo ang mobile wallets nga GCash kag Maya nga magasunod sila gilayon sa mandu sang BSP.
Utang sang Pilipinas, magalapaw sa P16-T sa 2026 — budget documents
Ginapanan-aw nga magapangkalaak ang utang sang Pilipinas sa masobra P19-trillion antes magtakop ang 2026.
Base sa Budget and Expenditures and Sources of Financing para sa fiscal year 2026, ginalantaw sang gobyerno nga magalab-ot ang total outstanding debt sang Pilipinas sa P19.057 trillion sa masunod nga tuig nga mas mataas sa projected P17.359-trillion debt level para sa 2025.
As of end-June 2025, ang utang sang national government ang naglapaw na sa P17-trillion mark.
Nagdangat na ini sa P17.267 trillion nga may 2.1%% nga saka halin sa P16.918 trillion sang Mayo.
Sa gina-project nga P19.057-trillion debt sa 2026, P13.28 trillion ang kuhaon diri sa Pilipinas; samtang P5.78 trillion naman ang magahalin sa external sources.
DOE, magahiwat sang One-Stop-Shop sa probinsya sang Palawan halin Agosto 11 tubtob 15, 2025
Magahiwat ang Department of Energy (DOE) sang One-Stop-Shop sa probinsya sang Palawan halin Agosto 11 tubtob 15, 2025, agud mapadasig ang proseso sang pagkuha sang License to Operate (LTO) kag Certificate of Compliance (COC) para sa mga negosyante nga sakop sang industriya sang LPG.
Ginpa-athag sang DOE nga ini nga inisyatibo kabahin sang direktiba ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga mapadasig ang serbisyo sang gobyerno sa mga malayo nga lugar, labi na sa mga MSMEs.
Ginapunto man sang ahensya nga pinaagi sa One-Stop-Shop, mahimo na nga makuha sa pareho nga adlaw ang LTO kag COC basta kumpleto ang ginpresentar nga mga dokumento sang aplikante.
Ini magabulig nga makaminus sang gastos kag oras sa pagproseso kag makalikaw sa tuman ka delay.
Ini na ang ikaduha nga One-Stop-Shop nga ginpatigayon sang DOE sa Palawan, kasunod sang ginhiwat sa Puerto Princesa sang 2023.
Plano man sang ahensya nga i-extend pa ini nga programa sa iban pa nga mga isla kag malayo nga probinsya sa pungsod.
60-day rice import ban, magtutulak ng P1–P2 dagdag-presyo sa bigas — grupo ng rice stakeholders
Posibleng tumaas ang presyo ng bigas sa susunod na mga linggo matapos ipag-utos ni Pangulong Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
ang suspensyon ng rice importation sa loob ng 60 araw simula Setyembre 1, 2025.
Ayon sa Philippine Rice Industry Stakeholders Movement lead convenor Rowena Sadicon, inaasahan ang dagdag-presyo ng P1 hanggang P2 kada kilo sa retail rice bunsod ng pagtaas din ng presyo ng palay sa mga magsasaka.
Ipinahayag ng Malacañang na ang suspensyon ay batay sa rekomendasyon ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
Samantala, tinuligsa ng Federation of Free Farmers ang umano’y mabagal na aksyon ng pamahalaan para sa proteksyon ng lokal na magsasaka, na ilan ay nalubog na sa utang at nagdadalawang-isip kung magtatanim pa.
Batay sa datos ng Philippine Statistics Authority nitong Hulyo 2025, ang average presyo ng regular milled rice ay nasa P41.31 kada kilo mula P50.90 noong Hulyo 2024; well-milled rice, P47.60 mula P55.85; at special rice, P56.83 mula P64.42 kada kilo.
Bagaman bumaba ang presyo nitong mga nakaraang buwan dahil sa base effects at mas mababang import tariff, maaaring mag-iba ang trend kapag nag-umpisa na ang suspensyon ng importasyon.
Oil price rollback, ginapaabot sa masunod nga semana
May ginapaabot nga oil price rollback sa masunod nga semana.
Yari ang average estimate sa sulod sang apat ka adlaw nga trading: Gasolina: ₱ 0.15 – ₱ 0.35 /L ROLLBACK Diesel: ₱ 1.15 – ₱ 1.35 /L ROLLBACK Kerosene: ₱ 1.10 – ₱ 1.30 /L ROLLBACK
Suno kay Assistant Director Rodela Romero sang Department of Energy Oil Industry Management Bureau, ang rollback ang resulta sang nagataas nga production sang mga pungsod nga kabahin sang Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) kag mga kaalyado sini.
GSIS, nagdepensa sa investment sini sa online gambling platform
apang wala ini sang ginsapubliko nga kantidad kun pila.
Kasunod ini sang ginbulgar ni Senate Deputy Minority Leader Risa Hontiveros nga nag-invest ang GSIS sang masobra sa P1 billion sa gaming giant nga DigiPlus.
Sa tunga sang pagpakamalaot halin sa publiko, nagsabat naman ang GSIS nga maga-kooperar ini sa oversight institutions kag sa regulatory bodies kaangot sa ginhimo sini nga investment.
Ginpasalig man sini nga suportahan ang transparency kag accountability sa tanan nila nga investment activities.
Sa ila nga statement, ginsulit man nga wala-punaw ang ila commitment nga mag-akto santo sa pinakamaayo nga interest sang mga myembro kag pensioners.
Gindugang man nga ginasunod lang nila ang ila mandato nga protektahan kag padakuon ang kontribusyon sang mga trabahador sang gobyerno.
Lakip man sa ginpasalig sang GSIS amo ang padayon nga pag-conduct sang comprehensive review sa charter, investment policies, risk exposure thresholds, kag sectoral guidelines ilabi na ang naga-involve sang sensitive ukon high-risk industries.
As of June 2025, ang GSIS ang may total assets nga P1.88 trillion kag naka-record sang Net Operating Income nga P76.82 billion.
Matandaan nga una na ginkwestyon ni Hontiveros kun ano ang tuyo sang GSIS sa pag-invest sa gambling platform.
Eh tayo nga po, mga kasamang nagtatrabaho sa gobyerno, ni hindi pwedeng tumungtong sa casino lalo na hindi pwedeng magsugal doon,” suno sa senadora.
“Kaya bakit ang GSIS, todo taya, at ginawang puhunan ang pera ng public employees sa sugalan?” #
Temporaryo nga pagpauntat sa rice importation, indi magresulta sa price hikes —DEPDev
Nagpasalig ang Department of Economy, Planning, and Development nga indi magresulta sa saka-presyo ang natalana i-implementar nga 60 ka adlaw nga suspensyon sang rice importation.
Sa amo man nga statement, nagpahayag si DEPDev Secretary Arsenio Balisacan nga bastante pa ang suplay sang pungsod.
Base sa mandu ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr., maga-umpisa ang suspensyon sa pag-import sa September 1, 2025.
Suportado ini ni Balisacan, bangud suno sa iya, nagnubo ang presyo sang bugas sa world market kag ang sobra nga pag-import sini mahimo makaapekto sa local farmers.
Wala man sang problema sa suplay suno sa iya bangud wala sang na-forecast ang weather bureau nga major weather development.
Sa subong suno sa iya, may rice imports pa sa mga mercado kag manug-abot pa ang bag-o nga shipment.
Magluwas diri, ginalauman nga mas mayo ang harvest season.
Ekonomiya ng Pilipinas, bahagyang tumaas sa 5.5% na GDP growth sa ikalawang quarter
Bahagyang tumaas ang takbo ng ekonomiya ng Pilipinas matapos maitala ang 5.5 percent na Gross Domestic Product o GDP growth sa ikalawang quarter ng taon, ayon sa pinakahuling datos ng Philippine Statistics Authority.
Mas mataas ito kumpara sa 5.4% noong unang quarter, ngunit mababa sa 6.5% na naitala sa kaparehong panahon noong nakaraang taon at sa 5.6% na projection ng mga ekonomista.
Ayon sa mga analyst, nakatulong sa bahagyang pagbilis ng ekonomiya ang easing inflation na posibleng nagpalakas sa consumer spending.
Gayunpaman, naapektuhan ito ng election-related ban sa public disbursements na naglimita sa paggasta ng gobyerno.
Ang GDP at ang 0.9% na six-year low inflation rate nitong Hulyo ay inaasahang magiging batayan sa susunod na policy meeting ng Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas sa Agosto 28.
Marcos, ginmando ang temporaryo nga suspensyon sang tanan nga importasyon sang humay sa sulod sang 60 ka adlaw
ang temporaryo nga suspensyon sang tanan nga importasyon sang humay sa sulod sang 60 ka adlaw umpisa Setyembre 1, 2025.
Suno kay Acting Secretary Dave Gomez sang Presidential Communications Office, kabahin ini sang tikang sang Malacañang agud maprotektahan ang lokal nga mga mangunguma nga ginapalibutan subong sang kabudlayan bangud sa barato nga presyo sang palay sa tunga sang harvest season.
Ginklaro sang Department of Agriculture nga ang ginapatuman nga ban para lamang sa well-milled kag regular milled nga klase sang humay.
Ang mga malahalon kag imported nga klase sang bugas kaangay sang basmati kag fragrant rice, indi apektado sang suspensyon.
Ginpatuman sang Presidente ang nasambit nga direktiba matapos siya mag-konsulta sa mga miyembro sang Kabinete sa iya lima ka adlaw nga state visit sa India.
Antes pa sini, ginrekomendar na sang DA nga pasangkaron ang taripa sa imported nga humay bangud sa mabaskug nga pagbuhin sang presyo sang palay sa piyak sang kasubong nga pinakamataas nga produksyon nga na-record.
Mga reporma sa ‘mining’ sa Marcos administration, ginalantaw nga yabi sa pagsanyog sang foreign investment
Nagapati ang Chamber of Mines of the Philippines (COMP) nga ang mga reporma sa industriya sang pagmina sa idalum sang administrasyon ni Pangulong Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
amo ang naghatag sang mas mabaskog nga kumpiyansa sa mga foreign investors.
Base sa 2024 Annual Survey of Mining Companies, nagsaka ang Pilipinas sa ika-16 nga pwesto sa 82 ka pungsod sa investment attractiveness, kag naglab-ot man sa ika-9 nga ranggo sa best practices sa mineral potential.
Suno kay COMP chairman Michael Toledo, ang masulhay nga permitting processes kag ang padayon nga suporta sang gobyerno sa ‘responsable mining’ amo ang nagdala sang positibo nga epekto sa industriya.
Gindugang man sini nga ang ginahulat nga Mining Fiscal Regime bill magahatag sang mas klaro kag patas nga sistema sang buwis, nga magapasangkad pa gid sang pagsalig sa sektor, ilabi na sa mga large-scale mining companies
Oil price hike, ipatuman na naman sa masunod nga semana
Balantayan ang isa na naman ka hugnat sang pagsaka sang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo sa masunod nga emana.
Suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau, sandig sa apat ka adlaw nga trading, yari ang posible nga hulag sa presyo:
Gina-angot sang ahensya ang nagapamintana nga fuel price hike sa mga latest nga development sa oil market subong nga semana.
Lakip diri ang nabuhi nga mga kahangawa sa supply disruptions kasunod sang sanction ni US President Donald Trump sa Russia kag sa Iranian oil.
Sa pihak nga bahin, yara man ang paglaom sa mas maayo nga economic activity matapos ang US – EU trade deal.
Sa Lunes kinaandan nga gina-anunsyo sang fuel retailers ang opisyal nga price adjustments kag ginapatuman ini sa kada Martes sang aga.#
Mga nasa laylayan, makikinabang sa pinalawak na ‘Lifeline Rate’ at ‘Net Metering’ – MORE Power
Nagpahayag ng suporta ang MORE Power sa mga bagong hakbang ng administrasyong Marcos, lalo na sa renewable energy push ni Pangulong Ferdinand Marcos Jr., kabilang ang pagpapalawak ng Lifeline Rate coverage at pagpapabilis ng Net Metering program upang tugunan ang lumalaking pangangailangan sa kuryente at epekto ng climate change.
Sa kanyang ika-apat na State of the Nation Address (SONA), inilahad ni Pangulong Marcos ang layunin na makabitan ng solar home systems ang isang milyong kabahayan bago matapos ang taong 2028.
Kasabay nito, ipinahayag niya na paiigtingin ng Department of Energy (DOE) ang pagpapatupad ng Net Metering program upang mas mapakinabangan ng mga benepisyaryo ang sobrang enerhiya na kanilang nalilikha.
Ipinahayag din ng Pangulo na palalawakin ang saklaw ng Lifeline Rate.
Bukod sa mga kasalukuyang miyembro ng 4Ps, isasama na rin sa mga makikinabang ang mga pamilyang may mababang kita at may buwanang konsumo na hindi lalampas sa itinakdang threshold.
Sa Iloilo City, isa sa mga unang nagpatupad ng Net Metering system ay ang Iloilo City Hall, na may 60-kilowatt system application noong 2024.
Ayon sa MORE Power, kasalukuyan itong may 491 net metering consumers at 34 aplikasyon pa ang nasa proseso.
Noong Hunyo 2025 lamang, umabot sa 237,780 kWh ang enerhiyang nalikha sa ilalim ng Net Metering program.
Nagpahayag si MORE Power President at CEO Roel Castro ng buong suporta sa direksyong itinatakda ng Pangulo para sa energy sector.
Aniya, tumutugma ang adbokasiya ng kumpanya sa mga layunin ng administrasyon, partikular sa pagbibigay ng abot-kayang kuryente at pagsuporta sa marginalized sector.
Ibinahagi rin ng kumpanya na mayroon itong 5,610 kasalukuyang lifeline beneficiaries at inaasahang tataas pa ang bilang sa pagpapalawak ng coverage.
Ayon kay Castro, ang implementasyon ng Net Metering at Lifeline Rate ay isang kongkretong hakbang upang matamo ang makatarungan at sustenableng access sa enerhiya, at hinihikayat nito ang aktibong partisipasyon ng mga konsyumer.
Dagdag pa niya, patuloy ang MORE Power sa pamumuhunan sa makabago at advanced na teknolohiya upang mapabuti ang serbisyo, palakasin ang efficiency, at masigurong maaasahan ang power distribution sa mga komunidad.
NFA, handa nga magbulig para lagson ang mga nagapamintaha nga rice trader
Handa nga magbulig ang National Food Authority (NFA) para lagson ang mga nagapamintaha nga rice traders sa punsod, suno kay NFA Administrator Larry Lacson.
Sa ika-apat nga State of the Nation Address (SONA) ni Presidente Ferdinand Marcos Jr., ginpasigurado sini sa Department of Agriculture (DA) nga mabantayan ang mga trader halin sa posible nga pagpamintaha sa mga mangunguma kag pagmanipula sa presyo sang bugas kag humay.
Suno kay Lacson, ang matigdas nga pahayag ni Presidente Marcos batok sa mga trader ang pamatuod nga ginapamatian sang gobyernmo ang mga ginasinggitan sang mga mangunguma.
Nakahanda man suno sa iya ang NFA nga magbulig sa DA kag iban pa nga ahensiya sang gobyerno para isulong ang mga kampaniya kontra sa mga mapamintaha nga mga trader kag dalayon nga mapasabat ang mga ini agud proteheran ang mga mangunguma.
Ginsiling sang opisyal nga ang nagapanguna nga katuyuan sang NFA amo agud proteheran ang kinamatarong sang mga mangunguma.
Suno sa iya, ang mga ini ang matuod nga haligi sang seguridad sa pagkaon sa pungsod, kasubong sang ginahatagan igtalupangod ni Presidente Marcos sa iya nga nangin speech.
Samtang, nagapanindugan si Lacson nga indi man sang insigida ang solusyon nga ginahimo sang NFA kag DA, lauman sa gihapon sang mga mangunguma nga tinguhaan sang ahensya ang pag-ayos kag pagbag-o sa sektor sang pagpanguma kalakip na ang pagpasabat sa mga nagapangmanipula nga trader.
P20 kada kilong bigas, papalawigin pa ng DA
Papalawigin pa ng Department of Agriculture (DA) ang saklaw ng P20 kada kilong bigas para makabili na rin ang mga pamilya mula sa middle-class sa susunod na taon.
na plano ng pamahalaan na makapagbenta ng bente pesos na bigas sa 15 milyong households o 60 milyong Pilipino kabilang ang mga pamilya na nasa middle-income class.
Magtatakda din ang ahensiya ng buwanang limit na 10 kilong bigas na maaaring bilhin ng middle-class households, bagamat maaari aniya itong mapataas pa kalaunan.
Sa kasalukuyan, tanging mga nasa vulnerable sectors gaya ng mga mahihirap o miyembro ng Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Progam (4Ps), senior citizen, persons with disability (PWDs), solo parents, at minimum wage earners ang maaaring bumili ng murang bigas.
Kung saan limitado sa 30 kilo ng bigas kada buwan ang maaaring bilhin ng mga benepisyaryo ng programa.
DA, ginpasiguro nga protektado sagihapon ang mga local agriculture products kasunod sa negosasyon sa taripa sa tunga sang Pilipinas kag U.S
Ginpasiguro sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga magapadayon nga protektado sang ahensya ang mga local agriculture products kaangay sang bugas, mais, kalamay, manok, isda, kag baboy sa ginpatigayon nga negosasyon sa taripa sa tunga sang Pilipinas kag Estados Unidos.
Suno kay DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., pareho nga ginainsister nanday Secretary Frederick Go kag Trade Secretary Cristina Roque nga ang nagapanguna nga proyoridad sang Pilipinas ang mga local nga mangunguman kag manugpangisda.
President Donald Trump nga nagpasugot ang Pilipinas sa 19% nga taripa sa exports sini, sa baylo sang duty-free access sang mga produkto sang Amerika.
Ginklaro man sang Malacañang nga wala pa sang pinal nga kasugtanan angot diri.
Dugang pa sang DA nga ginapasiguro ni Secretary Go nga wala sang concession nga makapaguba sa local nga industriya kag dapat mangin b
Presyo sang gasolina may gamay nga pagnubo; Diesel kag kerosene, magasaka subong nga ulihi nga semana sang Hulyo
May gamay nga pagnubo sa presyo sang gasolina samtang magasaka naman ang presyo sang diesel kag kerosene sa ulihi nga semana sang Hulyo, suno sa mga anunsyo sang oil industry sources.
Ipatuman ang mixed movements sang presyo sang produktong petrolyo buwas nga adlaw, Hulyo 29.
Yari ang mga masunod nga ipatuman nga pagbag-o sa presyo:
Gasolina – maganubo sang ₱0.10 kada litro Diesel – magasaka sang ₱0.60 kada litro Kerosene – magasaka sang ₱0.40 kada litro
Samtang, nagapabilin ang price freeze ukon pagpugong sa pagtaas sang presyo sang diesel sa pila ka lugar sa pungsod nga ginlaslas sang asud-asod nga bagyo.
Suno sa oil industry, kalakip sa mga lugar nga sakop sang price freeze ang La Union, Ilocos Sur, kag pila ka banwa sa Pangasinan kasubong sang Dagupan, Alaminos, Mangaldan, San Fabian, Calasiao, Malasiqui, Bayambang, kag Binmaley.
Ginapatuman ang price freeze bilang kabahin sang bulig sang gobyerno kag mga pribado nga kumpanya sa mga komunidad nga naapektuhan sang kalamidad.
Mixed movements sa presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo, lauman sa masunod nga semana-DOE
Lauman ang mixed movements sa presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana, suno sa Department of Energy (DOE).
Suno sa DOE-Oil Industry Management Bureau gikan sa pangkalibutanon nga trade sang gatong sa nakaligad nga apat ka adlaw, posible nga magapatuman sang masunod nga presyo ang mga oil industry sources:
Gasolina – wala sang paghulag ukon maganubo sang ₱0.10 kada litro
Kerosene – magasaka sang ₱0.30 kada litro
Suno kay Assistant Director Rodela Romero, kalakip sa mga factor nga nakaapekto sa paghulag sang presyo amo ang wala ginalauman nga pagnubo sang imbentaryo sang crude oil sa Estados Unidos, nga nagapakita sang maayo nga operasyon sang mga refinery.
Kun basehan ang Mean of Platts Singapore average sa nagligad nga apat ka adlaw, yari ang posible nga price adjustment:
*gasolina – magasaka sang P0.30 to P0.50 per liter
Ipaguwa sa Lunes, Hulyo 21, ang final price adjustment kag ipatuman sang oil companies epektibo sa Martes sang aga.
Sang nagligad nga Martes, may hike nga P0.70 per liter sa gasoline, P1.40 per liter sa diesel, kag P0.80 per liter sa kerosene.#
Pagpasaka sang buwis sa e-games, ginatun-an sang gobyerno
Ginpasalig ni Finance Secretary Ralph Recto nga madamo na sila sang ginatun-an nga mas istrikto nga mga pagsulundan agud nga mas ma-regulate pa gid sang gobyerno ang online gambling.
Isa sa ginalantaw suno sa tiglikom amo ang pagpasaka sang buwis.
Ginakonsiderar man ang pagtugyan sini sa Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR) nga amo ang makapasaka sang fees and charges nga ginakolekta sini sa online games.
Kun pasakaan ang buwis sang 10% suno sa opisyal base sa gross gaming revenue, makakolekta ang gobyerno sang dugang nga P20 billion kada tuig.
Lakip sa iban nga ginaproponer amo ang pagdumili sa mga opisyal sang gobyerno sa pagpasakop sa online gambling, pag-display sang mga paandam sa risgo sang gambling, kag paggamit sang national ID agud masiguro nga ang 21-anyos panubo nga mga indibidwal ang indi maka-access sa online gaming sites.
Nahibaluan nga nagakolekta ang PAGCOR sang 30% rate sa e-gaming platforms, samtang nagasukot naman ang Bureau of Internal Revenue sang dugang nga 5% franchise tax kag 3% auditing fee rason nga nagalab-ot ang total effective rate sa 38%.
PAGCOR, Ad Standards Council, nagpirma sang MOU agud ma-regulate ang gambling ads
Nagpirma na ang Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corporation (PAGCOR) kag ang Ad Standards Council (ASC) sang memorandum of understanding (MoU) para sa regulation kag pre-screening sang mga advertisements nga naangot sa gambling.
Bangud sini, nalakip na ang gambling sa lista nga yara sa “must-screen” category sa tanan nga media platforms.
Suno kay PAGCOR Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Alejandro Tengco, ini nga MOU ang produkto indi lamang bilang reaksyon sa kritisismo sa online gambling kundi produkto sang siyam ka bulan nga konsultasyon.
Sa idalom sang dokumento nga napirmahan, ang tanan nga branded or corporate gambling ads lakip na sa television, radio, online kag outdoor advertising ang dapat nga irepaso kag aprubahan sang ASC antes ini ipaguwa sa publiko.
Tuyo sini nga matapna ang misleading content kag maprotektahan man ang vulnerable groups sa halit nga dulot sang sugal.#
Ginkumpirma sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga yara na subong sa full swing ang drilling operations para sa Malampaya Phase 4 Project sa katuyuan nga mapasiguro ang energy security.
Suno kay Energy Secretary Sharon Garin, ang proyekto naga-involve ang drilling sang tatlo ka bag-o nga mga buho nga amo ang Camago-3, Malampaya East-1, kag Bagong Pag-asa-1.
Ginpahayag ni Garin, nagpatigayon si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
sang inspection sa site agud malantaw ang progress kag nagpabutyag sang suporta para sa inisyatibo.
Ginpaathag ni Garin nga ang drilling ginapatigayon sang vessel nga Noble Viking, nga nag-abot pila ka semana na ang nakaligad.
Ang kada buho ang kutkuton sa kadalumon ng yara sa 3 kilometers, kag possible matapos antes magtakop ang tuig.
SRA: Importasyon sang 424,000 MT sang refined sugar, wala sang epekto sa presyo sa merkado
Ginpasalig sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) nga indi maapektuhan ang presyo sang kalamay sa masunod nga mga binulan apisar sang anunsyo nga maga-import ang gobyerno sang Pilipinas sang 424,000 metric tons sang refined sugar.
Suno kay SRA administrator Pablo Azcona, stable lang ang presyo sang kalamay sa merkado nga yara sa P85 sa nagligad nga tatlo ka tuig.
Nagapaninguha suno sa iya ang gobyerno agud nga mapabilin lang dira ang retail price.
Sang 2024 suno sa opisyal, nagnubo ang presyo sang brown kag washed sugar, apang sa sitwasyon subong, maayo gid para sa farmers bangud nagsaka ang farmgate kag millgate price sini, kag pabor naman para sa consumers bangud nagnubo ang retail price sang brown kag washed, samtang stable naman ang refined.
Ginsulit man sang ahensya nga ang iga-import sang Pilipinas amo ang makabulig para sa supisyente nga suplay sang kalamay para sa domestic consumption kag buffer stock.
Dugang pa sang sugar regulatory agency, may stock subong ang Pilipinas nga 310,000 metric tons sang refined sugar nga magalawig tubtub sa Oktubre, gani nga ang pagpasulod sang import ang maga-umpisa sa Hulyo tubtub sa Nobyembre 30.
Trump, ginpasaka sa 20% ang tariff rate para sa Pilipinas
Maga-implementar si US President Donald Trump sang 20% nga tariff rate sa mga produkto sang Pilipinas nga magasulod sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Sa sulat nga ginpadala ni Trump kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
nga napetsahan sang Hulyo 9, 2025, ginsiling sini nga madugay na nga indi patas ang trade sa tunga sang US kag Pilipinas.
Bangud sini, himuon sini nga mas mahal ang buwis nga kinahanglan bayaran para sa mga ipasulod nga mga serbisyo kag mga produkto sang Pinoy sa Amerika.
Epektibo ang bag-o nga taripa umpisa sa Agusto 1.
Nalakip ang Pilipinas sa panibag-o nga round sang tariff letters nga gin-isyu ni Trump kun sa diin 30% sang taripa ang ginsukot sini sa Algeria, Iraq, Libya kag Sri Lanka kag 25% naman sa Brunei kag sa Moldova.
Ang 20% nga ipatuman sa Pilipinas ang mas mataas sa 17% rate nga una gin-set sang Abril 2.
Matandaan nga sa una nga desisyon ni Trump, gin-suspende anay ang tariff rates nga ginsukot kag ginhimo lamang nga 10% tubtub sang Hulyo 9 agud nga mahatagan sang tyempo ang mga pungsod nga mag-negosyar.
Matandaan nga una na nagsulat si Trump sa South Korea kag Japan nga naga-impose sang 25% nga taripa sa mga produkto sang amo nga mga nasyon.#
Pilipinas, maga-import sang 424,000 MT sang refined sugar
Maga-import ang Pilipinas sang halos tunga sa milyon ka metriko tonelada sang refined sugar subong nga tuig.
08, series of 2024-2025 sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA), gintugutan ang pagpasulod sang 424,000 MT sang imported refined sugar nga maga-abot sa Pilipinas halin sa Hulyo 15, 2025 tubtub sa Nobyembre 30, 2025.
Pahayag sang ahensya, ini nga sugar import program ang nagatuyo nga mapadayon ang “sufficient actual supply” sang kalamay para sa domestic consumption kag buffer stock.
Ang importers nga pahanugutan nga magpasulod sang required refined sugar volume amo lamang ang licensed international sugar traders nga may “good standing” amo man ang nakapartisipar anay sa sugar importation calls sang gobyerno kag ang nakapasakop man sa export sang raw sugar sa US agud malab-ot ang tariff rate quota.
Suno pa sa ahensya, ang imported refined sugar sa idalom sang latest order ang iga-classify nga “reserve” nga subject sa “future disposition or reclassification” nga pagatumuron sang SRA.
Una na nga gin-report sang SRA nga ang sugar production sa crop year 2024 to 2025, as of June 8, 2025, ang nagalab-ot sa 2.015 million MT.
Mas mataas ini sang 4.7% halin sa 1.92 million MT sang crop year 2023-2024.
President Marcos, ginpasalig sa mga angunguma nga indi na magnubo pa ang presyo sang unmilled rice
sa mga mangunguma nga indi na magnubo pa ang presyo sang unmilled rice kadungan sang pagnubo man sang presyo sa merkado kasunod sang ginapatuman nga P20-per-kilo program.
Suno kay Marcos, magapadayon ang pagbakal sang National Food Authority (NFA) sang humay nagikan sa mga mangunguma sa presyo nga P18 kada kilo para sa fresh, kag P19 tubtob P23 kada kilo para sa clean and dry.
Nagpanawagan naman si Senator kag anay Agriculture Sec.
Francis Pangilinan sa NFA kag sa local government units (LGU) nga baklon ang humay kag iban pa nga mga produkto nagikan sa mga mangunguma sa presyo nga kaangay sa mga mercado.
Pahayag pa niya, nagakadapat nga i-activate ang Sagip Saka Law nga nagapahanugot sa ila nga mag-procure nga wala na sang public bidding.
Ban sa pag-import sang poultry products halin sa Brazil, ginbawi na sang DA
Ginbawi na sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang ginpatuman sini anay nga ban sa poultry products nga halin sa Brazil.
Ini nga South American country ang isa sa pinakadako nga poultry exporters sa bilog nga kalibutan kun sa diin nagapangatlo ini sa global chicken trade.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., nag-isyu siya sang Memorandum Order No.
35 nga amo ang nagatapos na sang importation ban sa poultry halin sa amo nga pungsod.
Matandaan nga ginpatuman ang ban sang Mayo 19 bangud sa outbreak sang avian influenza.
Gin-cover sang ban ang poultry meat, piso, itlog, kag semen.
Ginpaguwa naman ang bag-o nga memorandum sa Pilipinas matapos nag-report na ang Brazilian veterinary authorities sa World Organisation for Animal Health (WOAH) nga natapna na nila ang outbreak.
Paagi sa pagbalik sang imports halin sa Brazil, ginpahayag sang DA secretary nga natuman nila ang sugo ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga dapat lain-lain ang sources sang gina-import nga agricultural products.
Presyo sang gatong, may rollback epektibo subong nga adlaw
Epektibo na subong nga aga, Hulyo 1, ang rollback sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo.
Nagnubo sang 1.40 ang presyo sang kada litro sang gasolina; P1.80 sa diesel; kag P2.20 sa kerosene.
Ini nga rollback ang ginpatuman kasunod sang big-time price hike sang nagligad nga semana nga gin-utay-utay patuman sang oil companies.
Una na nga nagpahayag ang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) nga ang downward adjustment subong nga semana ang naangot sa anunsyo sang ceasefire sa tunga sang Israel kag Iran nga amo ang nagpakalma sa global crude oil prices.
Antes sini, anum ka sunod-sunod nga semana nga may price hike sa gasoline; apat ka sunod-sunod nga semana sa diesel; kag tatlo ka sunod-sunod nga semana sa kerosene.
DA, ginbawi na ang temporary ban sa poultry products halin sa Netherlands
Ginbawi na sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang temporaryo nga ban sa pag-import sang manok halin sa Netherlands.
Ini nga desisyon nag-abot pila ka bulan matapos ginpunggan sang DA ang pagsulod sang mga produkto pareho sang manok, wild birds, karne sang manok, piso, itlog, kag semilya halin sa amo nga nasyon bangud sang balita nga may bird flu outbreak didto sang Nobyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
31 nga naga-lift sang ban matapos kumpirmahon sang mga global animal health authorities nga ang Netherlands wala na sang Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) cases.
Ginpahayag man sang DA nga wala na sang bag-o nga kaso halin pa sang tunga-tunga sang Mayo.
Epektibo gilayon ang mando kag magapadayon tubtob nga ini masuspender o mabalik liwat.
Bangud nabuksan na liwat ang koneksyon sa isa sa mga nagapanguna nga poultry producer sa Europa, ginapaabot sang DA nga mas mag-maayo ang availability sang poultry products sa lokal nga merkado kag mas maayo ang pagdumala sang supply diri sa sulod sang pungsod.
Presyo sang gasolina, diesel kag kerosene, duha ka beses gid nga magasaka subong nga semana
Duha ka beses gid nga pasakaan ang presyo sang diesel, kerosene, kag gasolina sa subong nga semana.
Base ini sa mga abiso nga ginpaguwa sang oil companies kaangay sang Chevron Philippines Inc.
(Caltex), Petron Corp., Seaoil Philippines Corp., kag Shell Pilipinas Corp.
6:00 buwas sa aga, Hunyo 24, magataas ang presyo sang gasolina sang P1.75 kada litro; P2.60 sa diesel; kag P2.40 sa kerosene.
Pagka-Huwebes, Hunyo 26, may kaangay man nga adjustments sa amo man nga fuel products.
Lain ini nga arrangement ipaanggid sa nakaandan sang mga motorista kun sa diin Martes lang gina-implementar ang oil price adjustments.
Antes sini, matandaan nga may request nga ginhimo ang Department of Energy (DOE) nga naga-ayo sa mga kumpaniya sang langis nga utay-utayon lang ang pagpatuman sang saka-presyo.
Sang nagligad nga semana, nagpaguwa sang forecast ang DOE Oil Industry Management Bureau nga may big-time increases bangud sa masingki nga away sang Israel kag Iran nga may daku nga epekto sa alagyan sang mga global shipping.#
P5 nga saka sa presyo sang diesel, posible ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
Magasapol ang Department of Energy (DOE) sa mga kumpaniya sang langis kag stakeholders sa masunod nga semana agud nga ma-diskusyunan ang inventories kag ang discount programs para sa mga motorista.
Suno kay DOE Oil Industry Management Bureau Director Rino Abad, luyag sang ahensya nga indi mag-untat ang discount kundi dugangan pa para sa ikaayo sang mga consumer.
Gin-imbitahan man ang Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) kag ang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga mag-intra sa diskusyon kag maghatag sang updates sa status sang fuel subsidy distribution.
Sa idalom sang 2025 national budget, P2.5 billion ang ginpain para sa fuel subsidy program para sa public transport kag P485 million para naman sa mga mangunguma.
Base sa abiso sang ahensya, yari ang posible nga adjustment sa masunod nga semana sandig sa 4 days of trading sa Mean of Platts Singapore:
Pahayag pa sang DOE, mahimo pa gani maglab-ot sa singko pesos ang isaka sa diesel.
Katapusan nga naka-eksperyensya ang Pilipinas sang singko pesos nga saka sa diesel prices sang Marso 2022 matapos nga gin-ban ni anay US President Joe Biden ang pag-import sang Russian oil, liquefied natural gas, kag coal sa United States.
DOT, ginpakamalaut ang “Least Safe” nga label sang HelloSafe sa Pilipinas
Ginkwestyon sang Department of Tourism (DOT) ang report nga naga-angkon nga ang Pilipinas amo ang “least safe country on the planet.”
Ginpakamalaut ni Tourism Secretary Christina Garcia Frasco ang kasaligan sang “HelloSafe Safety Index 2025” halin sa HelloSafe website, nga una nagbutang sa Pilipinas bilang pinaka-una sa listahan sang mga indi safe nga lugar sa kalibutan.
Apang ginbag-o sang HelloSafe ang ranggo, kag ginbutang na ang mga pungsod nga apektado sang giyera pareho sang Sudan, South Sudan, Afghanistan, Ukraine, kag Democratic Republic of Congo sa pinakaibabaw sang listahan sang mga indi safe nga pungsod.
Suno kay Frasco, nagpabaya ang HelloSafe pagkatapos sini kuhaon ang Pilipinas sa index narrative nga wala man lang sang paathag ukon klaro nga rason.
Dugang pa sang DOT, ginakondenar nila ang nangin report sang HelloSafe.
Ginklaro ni Senate President Francis “Chiz” Escudero nga wala sa lista sang priority legislations ang hagna nga pasakaan ang daily minimum wage sang mga mamumugon.
P200 nga wage hike ang nakabutang sa hagna nga gin-aprubahan sang Kamara samtang P100 naman ang iya sang Senado.
Suno kay Escudero, ang P200 across the board nga ginpasar sang mga kongresista sa ulihi nga semana sang sesyon ang wala nakabutang sa Legislative-Executive Development Advisory Council (LEDAC).
“Ipapasa pa lang nila ‘yan ba’t hindi brining up sa LEDAC para napag usapan na?
Siguro naman hindi ito maliit na bagay para hindi mabanggit o mapagusapan.
Ano ‘to napag isipan lamang pagkatapos ng LEDAC?,” kwestyon sini.
Ang LEDAC nga ginabug-usan sang cabinet secretaries kag Senate and House leaders amo ang nagaplastar sang economic policies sang administration nga amo ang ginahimo nga layi.
Gindugang sini nga may matabo nga bicameral conference kun mabaton na sang Senado ang kopya sang House bill nga ginpasar sa third and final reading sang Myerkules, Hunyo 4.
Apang pahayag sini, indi klaro kun adoptaron sang Senado ang version sang Kamara ukon magakompromiso sila sa amount agud indi maapektuhan ang ekonomiya.
Una na nga nagtunog ang panawagan sang labor groups nga Partido Manggagawa kag Nagkaisa Labor Coalition agud nga mapatigayon na ang immediate convening sang bicameral committee agud nga makahimo sang final version sang hagna sa wage hike para mapadala sa Malacañang agud nga mapirmahan sang president.#
DA, panubuan pa gid ang MSRP para sa imported rice sa Hulyo
Natalana nga panubuon na naman sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) para sa imported rice umpisa sa Hulyo.
nga magpadayon sang pagpangita sang paagi agud nga mabuhinan ang palas-anon sang Filipino consumers.
Tiu Laurel Jr., mahimo nga i-implementar ang P43 kada kilo nga MSRP umpisa sa Hulyo 1.
Halin ini sa ginapatuman subong nga P45 kada kilo.
Matandaan nga una nga ginpatuman ini nga tikang sang Enero kun sa diin nagsugod ang MSRP sa P58 kada kilo tubtub nga nag-us-os pa sa P45 kada kilo sang Marso 31.
Nagalaum man si Secretary Tiu Laurel sang kaangay man nga adjustments sa presyo sang bugas sa idalom sang Rice-for-All program.
Tunga sang mga kompanya sa manufacturing, energy, kag iban pa sa Asia-Pacific region, nawad-an sang indi magnubo sa $1 million bangud sa cyberattacks
Tunga sang mga kompanya nga nagahimakas sa manufacturing, energy, kag iban pa nga sektor sang industriya sa Asia-Pacific region ang nawad-an sang indi magnubo sa $1 million bangud sang cyberattacks nga nagdisturbo sa ila operasyon.
Sa isa ka pagtuon nga ginhimo sang cybersecurity firm upod sa VDC Research, nagaguwa nga may mga respondent man nga nagsiling nga ang ila kapierdehan naglapaw pa sa $5 milyon.
Ini nagapakita sang kinahanglanon nga palig-onon pa gid ang proteksyon batuk sa mga hackers.
Nagaguwa man nga kon ang sistema sang isa ka kompanya mabuksan sang mga cybercriminal, nagakabig ini sang daku nga kapierdahan bangud sang unplanned downtime, pagkadula sang revenue, gasto sa pag-repair sang mga kagamitan, loss of inventory, kag bisan ransom payments.
Ang downtime amo ang pinakadaku nga problema sang mga biktima, bangud ang pagkadula sang operasyon nagalawig halin apat tubtub 24 ka oras.
Dugang pa sa pagdula sang revenue, ini mahimo man maka-impact sa pagsalig sang mga kustomer sa kompanya.
DA, ginatun-an ang ‘minimum buying price’ para sa rice traders
Ginatun-an sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang posibilidad sang pagpatuman sang minimum buying price ukon “floor price” sa palay.
Para ini sa traders ukon sa middlemen agud nga mapasiguro sang gobyerno nga mabaligya sang local rice farmers ang ila nga ani sa maayo kag patas man nga presyo.
Suno kay DA Marketing and Consumers Affairs Assistant Secretary Genevieve Guevarra, nagabakal ang traders sang palay sa indi rasonable nga presyo nga P11 ukon P12.
Kinahanglan suno sa iya ang minimum buying price para madiktahan indi lamang ang National Food Authority (NFA) kundi pati ang rice traders nga nagabakal sa local farmers.
Suno sa DA official, target nga mapatuman ang “floor price” sa palay antes magtakop ang tuig.
Sang nagligad nga bulan, matandaan nga nagpahayag si Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
nga may traders sa masobra 30 ka areas sa Luzon nga gina-imbestigaran bangud sa pagbakal sang palay sa local farmers sa tuman ka nubo nga presyo.
DA, nagpaguwa sang P10M para sa pest containment efforts sa katubuhan sa Negros Island
Nag-release ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sang P10 million para sa pesticide procurement agud matapna na ang red-striped soft scale insects (RSSI) infestation nga amo ang daku nga pagpanghangkat sa sugar production sa Negros Island.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., paagi sa suporta sang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA), ginalauman nga madasig nga matapna ang infestation.
sa DA nga tapnaon gilayon ang infestation kag maghimo sang tikang nga malikawan nga maglapta pa ini sa Negros.
Base sa SRA data, sa Visayas region nagahalin ang 71% sang national sugar output kun sa diin ang kontribusyon sang Negros Island pa lamang nagalab-ot na sa 63% sang total.
Ang iban pa nga nagaamot sang produksyon sa Visayas amo ang sugar plantations sa Panay, Cebu, kag Leyte.
Sulod na naman ang Pilipinas sa listahan sang 10 worst countries para sa mga mamumugon.
Santo ini sa International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC) Global Rights Index nga ginpaguwa kahapon, Hunyo 6.
Suno sa Workers Rights Watch nga amo ang nag-release sang report, ini na ang pang-siyam nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga nalakip ang Pilipinas sa sini nga listahan.
Kaupod sang Pilipinas sa Top 10 amo ang Bangladesh, Belarus, Ecuador, Egypt, Eswatini, Myanmar, Nigeria, Tunisia, kag Turkey.
Base sa report, ang kinamatarong nga magpatigayon sang strike amo ang pinaka-ginalapas nga kinamatarong sang mamugon sa Pilipinas nga nagalab-ot sa 87%.
Ginasundan ini sang gina-violate man nga right to collective bargaining agreement nga 80%; ang right to establish or join union sa 75%; kag ang right to justice sa 72%.
Ginpahayag sang grupo nga kadamo pa sang dapat nga ubrahon agud nga mag-updanay na ang gobyerno kag employers para makakas ang Pilipinas sa sini nga lista.
P16.75-T nga utang sang Pilipinas, mas manubo ipaanggid sa iban nga Asian nations —DOF
Ginplastar sang Department of Finance (DOF) nga yara pa sa “sustainable level” ang utang sang Pilipinas — kag mas manubo pa gani ini ipaanggid sa mga kaiping nga nasyon sa Asya.
Yara sa P16.75 trillion ang total outstanding debt sang national government.
Sa listahan nga ginpaguwa sang Finance Department, yara naman sa P485.94 trillion ang utang sang Japan, P53.68 trillion ang iya sang Singapore, P46.89 trillion ang iya sang South Korea, P31.37 trillion ang iya sang Indonesia, kag P17.73 trillion naman ang iya sang Thailand.
Suno sa ahensya, padayon nila nga gina-manage ang utang sang gobyerno kag ginatinguhaan nga mabalik ang debt-to-gross domestic product (GDP) ratio sa post-pandemic threshold nga 70%.
Nagdepensa man ang department nga sang nag-abot ang Marcos Jr.
administration sang 2022, ginsubli na sini nga daan ang P12.79-trillion nga utang.
Halos katunga diri ukon ang P6.84 trillion ang gintutok sa economic stimulus kag response sa COVID-19 pandemic.
Ini nga kantidad suno sa ahensya mas daku ipaanggid sa kumbinasyon sang utang halin sa Marcos Sr.
Hagna para sa P200 across-the-board minimum wage hike, aprubado na sang Kamara
Gin-aprubahan na sang Kamara sa third and final reading ang hagna nga ginduso agud nga ipatuman ang P200 nga saka sa daily wage sang minimum wage workers sa pribado nga sector sa pungsod.
171 ang boto sa affirmative, isa ang negative kag wala sang abstention agud mapasar sa plenaryo ang House Bill No.
para nga mangin layi, ini ang mangin una nga legislated nationwide wage hike halin sang natabo ang Wage Rationalization Act sang 1989.
Ini nga bersyon sang Kamara sa legislated wage hike ang mas mataas sang P100 ipaanggid sa gin-aprubahan anay sang Senado.
Kinahanglan nga ma-reconcile sang Senado kag Kamara ang kinalain sini nga mga hagna paagi sa ila pagtipon sa bicameral conference committee, kag sunod nga ipasaka ang enrolled bill sa Malacañang para sa pirma sang president agud dalayon nga mangin layi.
Kinahanglan nga mahimo ini sang bicam antes ang Hunyo 13 nga amo ang katapusan nga session day sang 19th Congress.
Kun indi maratipikahan, magabalik naman sa puno kag i-file ini nga hagna sa masunod nga Congress.#
DA, ginpalawig ang deadline para sa pag-isyu sang import permits sa isda kag iban pa nga mga seafoods tubtob sa katapusan sang Hunyo
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga ila ginpalawig ang deadline para sa pag-isyu sang import permits sa isda kag iban pa nga mga seafoods tubtob sa katapusan sang Hunyo.
Ini nga tikang ang ginpatuman agud hatagan sang dugang nga tion ang mga importers sa pagsunod sang bag-o nga guidelines nga ginapatuman sang ahensya.
ang DA nga kay-uhon ang sistema sang fish importation agud mapa-ayo ang supply kag presyo sang isda, labi na sa sektor sang turismo kag mga high-end nga pagkaon.
Ginapanan-aw man sini nga makahatag ini sing dugang nga trabaho kag makapaganyat sang mas madamo nga mga investment sa pungsod.
Suno sa DA, gin-aprubahan na nila subong nga tuig ang importasyon sang 25,000 metric tons sang isda kag seafood para sa food service, turismo kag hospitality industries.
Sa subong, yara palang sa 25% sang nasambit nga volume ang na-import sa pungsod.
Solane kag Petron, magapanubo sang presyo sang ila produkto subong nga Hunyo
Ginpahibalo sang mga Solane kag Petron nga kumpaniya nga magapanubo sila sang presyo sa mga produkto nga liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) umpisa sa Domingo, Hunyo 1.
Ang Solane magapanubo sang P1.64 kada kilo.
Samtang, ang Petron magapanubo sang P1.75 kada kilo.
Ang pagnubo sang presyo ang ginpatuman sa tunga sang padayon nga pag-monitor sang presyo sa international market.
DTI, nagpaguwa na sang price guide para sa school supplies
Ginpaguwa na sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) ang price guide para sa school supplies para sa panibag-o nga school year nga opisyal nga magasugod sa Hunyo.
Suno sa ahensya, ginpanubuan ang presyo sang 29 ka items halin sa P1 tubtub sa P10 para nga may opsyon ang mga ginikanan kag estudyante nga mapili ang ila masarangan nga suplay.
Ang presyo sang apat ka SKUs sang notebook ang ginpanubuan sang P5-P10; P1-P6 naman para sa 24 SKUs sang pad paper; kag nagnubo sang singko pesos ang kada lapis.
Buot silingon sini, ang presyo sang notebooks nagatupa sa P15.00 tubtub sa P52.00; ang pad paper yara sa P15.00 tubtub sa P48.75; samtang ang lapis naman yara sa P11.00 tubtub sa P24.00.
Wala naman sang pagbag-o sa presyo sang SKUs para sa ballpens, erasers, kag sharpeners.
Nagapahanumdom ang DTI sa publiko nga maghalong sa pagbakal sang school supplies, i-check gid anay ang label sang produkto kag i-check man ang numero sang leaves sang notebooks kag pad papers.
Pilipinas nakabaton sang $16-M nga grant halin sa South Korea para sa aquaculture, agribusiness
Nagpakig-upod ang Pilipinas kag South Korea sa pag-implementar sang $16 million nga grant para sa duha ka proyekto nga nagatuyo sa pagpasanyog sang aquaculture development kag community-based agribusiness.
Ginpahayag sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga ang grant nga ginpirmahan upod sa Korea International Cooperation Agency (Koica) ang magapadali sang implementasyon sang multiyear projects para sa mga mangunguma kag mangingisda.
Ang una nga undertaking ang ginatawag Capacity Building on Aquaculture Development for Income Increase of Fisherfolk sa Probinsya sang Guimaras.
Ini nagatuyo sa pagbulig sa mga mangingisda nga madugangan ang ila kita paagi sa pagpabakod sang produksyon sang aquaculture kag value chain.
Ini ipatuman sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.
Ini nga inisyatibo, nga nakabaton sang grant nga $10 million, nagalakip sang pagpauswag sang imprastraktura sa aquaculture pareho sang sistema sang hatchery kag pilot pond para sa mga high-value species.
Nagalakip man ini sang pagbalhin sang mga advanced aquaculture technologies paagi sa capacity-building programs kag ang pagpauswag sang mga istruktura sang operasyon sang negosyo para sa mga kooperatiba.
Presyo sang Produktong Petrolyo, may bag-o nga adjustments — DOE
May ginpatigayon nga price adjustments ang Department of Energy (DOE) – Oil Industry Management Bureau nga magasugod bwas, Martes, Mayo 27, alas 6 sang aga.
Suno sa DOE, ang presyo sang gasolina magataas sang P0.10 kada litro, samtang maganubo naman ang presyo sang diesel sang P0.20 kada litro kag kerosene sang P0.40 kada litro.
Ekonomiya sang Pilipinas, nagapabilin nga ‘resilient’ suno sa International Monetary Fund
Nagapabilin nga resilient ang ekonomiya sang Pilipinas sa pihak sang mga external challenges.
Apang, suno sa International Monetary Fund, ini nagmarka sang mas mahinay growth prospects sa term due bangod sang nagnubo nga global demand kag lingering uncertainties.
Suno kay IMF Chief Elif Arbatli Saxegaard, ang Pilipinas sa daku nga bahin ginaamligan gikan sa direkta nga epekto sang bag-o nga gin-anunsyo nga mga taripa sang US.
Sa gihapon, ang broader global headwinds ginapaabot nga magabug-at sa pagpasangkad sang ekonomiya sang pungsod.
Nagalakip ini sang mas mahinay nga pag-uswag sa dalagku nga mga ekonomiya kag mas mataas nga walay kapat-uran sa polisa.
Ang pag-uswag ginabulubanta sa 5.5 percent sa 2025, mas manubo gamay sangsa mga pagbanta sang gobyerno sang nagligad, kag 5.8 percent sa 2026.
Dugang pa niya nga ang domestic consumption ginalauman nga makabenepisyo gikan sa pagpahagan-hagan sang monetary policy.
Kag bisan pa, ang manubo nga inflation kag ang low unemployment, mga pribado nga investment nagapabilin nga subdued, kag ang mga risgo sa economic outlook nagaliso downside.
Fuel prices, may mixed movement sa masunod nga semana
May mixed movement sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Sandig sa apat ka adlaw nga trading sang Mean of Platts Singapore kag mga development sa international oil market, yari ang ginabanta nga adjustments suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau:
Gasoline – rollback sang P0.15 per liter ukon may pagsaka nga tubtub sa P0.30 per liter Diesel – wala sang adjustment ukon may rollback nga tubtub sa P0.40 per liter Kerosene – rollback nga P0.20 tubtub sa P0.40 per liter
Lakip sa gin-cite nga factors sa adjustments amo ang progress sa US-Iran nuclear deal; nagatahaw nga global US-China trade tensions; dugang nga crude oil storage capacity halin sa Export Terminal sang Iran.
Matandaan nga sang Martes, may big-time hike man sa presyo sang gatong: P1.70 sa diesel, kag P1.20 per liter sa gasoline kag kerosene.
Gina-anunsyo ang final adjustment sa kada Lunes kag ginapatuman epektibo sa kada Martes.
Poultry products halin sa Brazil, gin-ban anay sa Pilipinas bangud sa kaso sang bird flu
Temporaryo nga ginadumilian ang pagpasulod sa Pilipinas sang poultry products halin sa Brazil kasunod sang kumpirmado nga mga kaso sang bird flu sa amo nga pungsod sa South America.
Tuyo sini nga malikawan nga magsulod ang bird flu virus sa Pilipinas kag maprotektahan man ang health sang local poultry population.
Bangud sini, awtomatiko nga suspendido na ang processing, evaluation kag issuance sang sanitary and phytosanitary import clearance sa Brazilian poultry products.
Ginpasalig man ni Tiu Laurel nga ang ban sa Brazilian poultry products ang indi mag-resulta sa problema sa suplay kag sa pagsaka sa presyo sa mercado.
Pahayag sang tiglikom, mataas ang local production kag mahimo man makapili ang importers sang foreign suppliers kun ma-ban ang nasyon nga ila ginakuhaan sang produkto.
Nahibaluan nga critical poultry meat supplier sang Pilipinas ang Brazil para sa meat processing industry.
Naga-suplay ini sang at least 60 percent sa MDM requirement nga isa ka importante nga raw ingredient nga ginagamit sa pag-produce sang food items kaangay sang hot dogs kag meat loaves.
May plano bala ikaw nga magbyahe sa Hunyo?
Lauman nga mas manubo ang airfare sa masunod nga bulan kasunod sang anunsyo sang Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) nga nag-us-os ang fuel surcharge level para sa domestic kag international flights.
Sa advisory sang CAB, ginsiling nga ang passenger kag cargo fuel surcharge para sa flights diri sa Pilipinas kag pakadto sa luwas sang pungsod ang na-set sa Level 3.
Halin ini sa June 1-30, 2025 nga mas manubo sa current Level nga 4.
Sa idalom sang Level 3, ang mga pasahero sa domestic flights ang magadugang sang bayad nga P80 tubtub sa P300, kag P273.36 tubtub sa P2,032.54 naman sa flights nga halin sa Pilipinas kag pakadto na sa iban nga mga nasyon.
Tandaan nga ang fuel surcharge isa ka optional fee, magluwas pa sa base fare, nga amo ang ginapasa sang airlines sa mga pasahero agud nga maka-recover sa gasto nga nakuha sa volatility sang jet fuel.
Ang price movement sa sini nga jet fuel amo man ang salandigan kun may adjustments nga himuon ang CAB sa fuel surcharges.
Sandig pa sa abiso sang CAB, dapat nga mag-file na sang application ang airlines nga gusto mag-kolekta sang fuel surcharge para sa Hunyo — antes ukon mismo sa effectivity period nga nakasaad sa advisory.
Taiwan, nagakinahanglan sang 7,000 Pinoy workers
Masobra sa 7,000 trabaho ang ginpain sang Taiwan para sa mga Pilipino.
Mismo ang mga employer ang magapadulonh sa Pilipinas para sa job fair sa Ilocos region.
Patigayunon ang job fair sa Laoag, Ilocos Norte sa September 9, kag sa Vigan, Ilocos Sur sa September 11, 2024.
Suno kay Silvestre Bello III, chairman sang Manila Economic Culture Office (MECO), kinahanglan sang Taiwan ang 7,000 factory workers kag 300 caregivers.
Kadam-an sa mga mabaton nga aplikante ang magatupa sa food ukon information technology industry.
Pag-IBIG Fund, ginpamaayo pa ang ila Multi-Purpose Loan (MPL)
Ginpamaayo sang Pag-IBIG Fund ang ila Multi-Purpose Loan (MPL) agud mas daku na ang mahimo nga mahulam sang mga miyembro, mas mabuhin ang kinahanglan nga hulog antes mag-qualify, kag mas madamo sang pili-an nga repayment terms.
Domingo Jacinto, Jr., Vice President sang PAG-IBIG Fund, iya ginpahayag nga sa idalum sang ginpAayo nga Pag-IBIG MPL, mahimo na nga makahulam ang mga miyembro sang tubtob 90% sang ila kabug-osan nga Pag-IBIG Regular Savings—mas mataas ini sang 12.5% kumpara sa una nga 80%.
Para sa mga miyembro nga naga-dugang kag naga-upgrade sang ila regular savings, posible pa gid nga magdaku ang ila mahimo nga mahulam bangud nakabase ini sa ila savings.
Sa kabug-usan, mas daku ang mahimo nila nga ma-loan halin sa MPL para sa ila mga kinahanglanon.
Suno kay Jacinto, ini nga mga pagbago—mas daku nga loan kag mas dasig nga eligibility—ipatuman man sa iban nga Short-Term Loan programs sang Pag-IBIG pareho sang Health and Education Loan Programs (HELPS) kag Calamity Loan.
Luwas sa mas daku nga loan amount, ginpaubos man ang kinahanglan nga panahon para magin eligible ang isa ka miyembro.
Sa idalum sang ginbag-o nga programa, pwede na maka-loan ang mga aktibo nga miyembro nga may 12 ka bulan nga hulog sa Pag-IBIG—mas dasig ini kumpara sa anay nga requirement nga 24 ka bulan.
Tungod sini, mas madamo nga miyembro ang mas temprano nga makabenepisyo sa pondo para sa ila nga kinahanglanon.
Samtang, ang mga miyembro nga may yara na sang existing loan halin sa daan nga guidelines mahimo gihapon mag-apply liwat sa enhanced MPL kon kinahanglan nila sang dugang nga cash bangud sang mas mataas nga loan entitlement.
Ang mga ini nga pagbago mangin available umpisa Mayo 16.
Kaupod man sa mga pagbago sa Pag-IBIG MPL amo ang bag-o nga one-year repayment term bilang dugang nga opsyon sa existing nga two kag three-year terms.
Nagahatag ini sang dugang nga flexibility sa mga miyembro agud mas mapasadya nila ang ila bayad sa loan suno sa ila financial capacity.
Turismo sang pungsod, nagsangkad sa pihak sang pagnubo sang Chinese tourists –DOT
Ginpahayag sang Department of Tourism (DOT) nga nagasugod na sa pagbangon ang Pilipinas halin sa pagnubo sang numero sang mga Chinese tourists nga nagasulod sa pungsod, kadungan sang pagtaas sang foreign tourist arrivals, ilabi na halin sa Middle East, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), kag India.
Suno kay DOT Secretary Christina Garcia-Frasco, wala nalab-ot ang target nga 7.7 million Chinese tourist arrivals para sa tuig 2024, matapos nakarekord lamang sang 5.9 million sang nagligad nga tuig.
Isa sa ginatumod nga rason amo ang pagpang-crackdown sa mga Philippine Offshore Gaming Operators (POGOs).
Bilang sabat, ang DOT nagapasanyog sang pagdamo sang mga merkado sang turismo.
Ginreport nga nakakita ini sang 500% tubtob 800% nga pagdamo sang mga turista nga nag-abot gikan sa Middle East kag GCC, bangud sang mga tikang nga nagasabat sa Halal kag Muslim-friendly nga turismo, pareho sang Marhaba Cove sa Boracay kag ang akreditasyon sang mga Muslim-friendly nga mga hotel kag restawran.
Ang DOT nagapabakod man sang kaangtanan sa mga mayor nga merkado sang turismo pareho sang South Korea, Japan, Estados Unidos, Europa, kag Australia.
Ang kadamuon sang mga bisita gikan sa South Korea kag Australia padayon nga nagadamo bangod sang pagpasangkad sang koneksyon kag interes sa pag-dive, golf, baybayon, kag adventure tourism.
Dugang pa ni Frasco, nakahanda na ang nagkalain-lain nga destinasyon sa pungsod nga magbaton sang mga turista gikan sa nagkalain-lain nga bahin sang kalibutan.
PH hog population, makabalik sa pre-ASF levels sa masunod nga 2-3 ka tuig —DA
Ginplastar sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga kinahanglan pa ang duha tubtub tatlo ka tuig antes makabalik ang populasyon sang baboy sa Pilipinas sa lebel sini antes nag-abot ang African Swine Fever (ASF) outbreak.
Apang dugang sang Agriculture official, may mga nakit-an na subong nga senyales sang pagbangon sang local hog industry.
Suno sa iya, nagapadayon ang pagpatigayon sang controlled vaccination sa mga baboy kag maathag gid nga maayo ang resulta.
Nagahulat na lang ang ahensya suno sa iya sang approval sang Food and Drug Administration (FDA) para sa commercial rollout sang bakuna para sa ASF.
Kinahanglan gid ini nga approval antes i-implementar ang repopulation plan nga amo ang ginalantaw nga magabalik sang domestic production sang baboy sa Pilipinas sa lebel nga kaangay sang 2018.
DA, ipauntat anay ang implementasyon sang max SRP sa karne sang baboy
Untaton anay sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pagpatuman sang maximum suggested retail price (SRP) sa karne sang baboy.
Ini bangud bisan Marso pa ginpatuman ang MSRP, nagapalangkalakaak sa gihapon ang presyo sini sa mga mercado kag nagalaoy sa gihapon ang mga bumalakal ilabi na sa Metro Manila.
Suno kay Agriculture Undersecretary for livestock Constante Palabrica, ipaiway anay ang implementasyon sini gani nga lauman man sang publiko nga may revision nga iga-anunsyo ang DA.
Nahibaluan nga as of May 2, manubo sa singko porsyento ang compliance ukon ang pagsunod sang mga retailer sa max SRP.
Nagsarurot ini halin sa Abril 1 nga compliance santo sa monitoring sang Agribusiness and Marketing Assistance Service.
Marso 10 sang ginpatuman ang max SRP kun sa diin ang pork shoulder ang yara sa P350 per kilo, samtang ang pork belly naman ang nagalab-ot sa P380.
Ginpasigurado man sang natungdan nga bastante ang pork supplies apisar sang resulta sang African swine fever outbreaks sa local supply.
Nagapanawagan ang ahensya sa producers, traders kag retailers nga magbulig sa pag-solbar sa mataas nga retail price sang karne sang baboy.
35,000 ka bags sang well-milled rice halin sa NFA, nag-abot na sa probinsya sang Cebu
Nag-abot na sa probinsya sang Cebu ang 35,000 ka bag sang well-milled rice halin sa National Food Authority (NFA) bilang kabahin sang pilot testing sang P20 kada kilo nga bugas nga programa sang gobyerno.
Suno sa Department of Agriculture (DA) nag-umpisa na sang Lunes ang pag-unload sang shipment sang NFA rice nga halin sa bodega sang ahensya sa Mindoro.
Ang nasambit nga 35,000 ka bag sang NFA rice isa lamang ka kabahin sang kabug-osan nga 600,000 ka bag nga gin-order ni Cebu Governor Gwendolyn Garcia para sa programa sa probinsya nga magahatag sang NFA rice sa presyo nga P20 kada kilo.
Nagpasakop man sa subsidized rice initiative ang mga probinsya sang Bohol, Siquijor, kag Southern Leyte.
Ang apat ka probinsya may kabug-osan nga inisyal nga order nga 673,000 ka bag sang 50-kilo nga bugas para sa pilot test nga magalawig tubtob Disyembre.
Presyo sang diesel kag gasolina, may senintimos nga rollback buwas
Maganubo sa ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga semana ang presyo sang produktong-petrolyo.
Base sa anunsyo sang fuel firms, mabuhinan sang P0.30 ang presyo sa kada litro sang gasoline; P0.90 kada litro sang diesel; kag P1.25 sa kada litro sang kerosene.
Mangin epektibo ang adjustments umpisa alas sais buwas sa aga, Mayo 13.
Nauna na nga ginpahayag sang Department of Energy – Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) nga may rollback kasunod sang desisyon sang Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) nga pasakaan ang production levels sa Hunyo.
Ginplastar man nga factor sa adjustment sa prsyo ang wala kasiguruhan sa resulta sang trade talks sa tunga sang United States kag China.
Sang nagligad nga semana, matandaan nga may P0.55 nga rollback sa gasoline, P0.65 sa diesel; kag P0.90 sa kerosene.#
DA: Smuggled onions halin sa China, nagpositibo sa salmonella
Ginkumpirma sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga nagpositibo sa heavy metals kag salmonella ang P4.1 million nga balor sang puti nga sibuyas nga halin sa China kag gin-smuggle sa Pilipinas.
Matandaan nga 34 metric tons nga illegal shipment ang nakumpiskar sang awtoridad sa Mexico, Pampanga sang Abril 26.
Nag-abot ang shipment sa Subic Port paagi sa Hong Kong-flagged nga SITC Hochiminch.
Suno naman kay DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., importante gid nga mapunggan ang pag-abot sang kaangay sini nga agricultural commodities sa local markets bangud delikado ini para sa mga tawo.
Magluwas sini, daku man ang risgo nga makapalapta ini sang sakit sa mga tanum kag makapadamo man sang peste.
Suno pa sa DA, ang heavy metal poisoning ang mahimo makaresulta sa cancer kag major body organ damage, samtang ang salmonella bacteria naman ang makatuga sang food poisoning kag iban pa gid nga mga impeksyon.
Ginpasalamatan man ni Laurel ang Philippine National Police (PNP)-Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG) para sa madasig sini nga pag-akto batok sa amo nga iligal nga shipment.
Ekonomiya sang Pilipinas, nag-uswag sang 5.4% sa una nga tatlo ka bulan sang 2025
Nag-uswag ang ekonomiya sang Pilipinas sang 5.4% sa una nga tatlo ka bulan sang 2025.
Suno sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA), ang nasambit nga numero ang mas mataas sangsa 5.3% nga pag-uswag sang Gross domestic product (GDP) sa ulihi nga katunga sang 2024.
Suno kay PSA Undersecretary Dennis Mapa, ang quarter-on-quarter nga pag-uswag yara sa 1.2%, nga ginapangunahan sang manufacturing, retail trade, kag construction.
Bisan pa nga mas manubo ini sangsa 5.9% nga pag-uswag sa amo man nga panahon sang nagligad nga tuig, ang National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) nagsiling nga nagapakita sang “steady growth” sa piyak sang world economic uncertainty nga gintuga sang mga tensyon sa negosyo sa tunga sang U.S.
Ang Pilipinas amo ang ikaduha nga pinakamadasig nga nag-uswag nga ekonomiya sa Asya sa una nga quarter sang 2025, sunod sa Vietnam (6.9%) kag kapareho sa China (5.4%).
Pilipinas, nag-post sang digital fraud rate nga 13.4 percent sang 2024
Nag-post ang Pilipinas sang ginasuspetsahan nga digital fraud rate nga 13.4 percent sang 2024, kapin sa doble sang global average nga 5.4 percent kag ikaduha nga pinakamataas sa mga ginsurbey nga mga pungsod.
Suno sa global information solutions provider nga TransUnion, nalampasan na sang Pilipinas ang global fraud rate sa ikalima nga sunod-sunod nga tuig.
Nagpanguna ang India nga may pinakamataas nga digital fraud rate nga nagalab-ot sa 19 percent, ginasundan sang Pilipinas kag Dominican Republic nga may 10.9 percent.
Gintudlo man sang datos ang makaalarma nga pagtaas sang mga insidente nga may kaangtanan sa pagpangdaya nga nagapuntirya sa mga Pilipino.
Halos tatlo sa apat ka mga Pilipino (74 percent) nga ginsurbey ang nagsiling nga sila ang na-target sang mga fraud scheme paagi sa email, online platforms, tawag sa telepono ukon text messages.
Mas mataas ini sangsa 53 percent nga average sa 18 ka iban pa nga pungsod kag rehiyon.
27 ka mga abandonado nga eroplano, kakson na sa NAIA
Magapatigayon sang daku nga clearing operation ang New NAIA Infrastructure Corporation (NNIC) agud kakson ang 27 ka abandonado nga mga eroplano sa general aviation area sang Ninoy Aquino International Airport (NAIA).
Ginbuyagyag sang NNIC nga pila sa mga eroplano ang wala na naga-function sa sulod sang madugay na nga panahon.
Lakip na diri ang isa ka Cessna 421B nga padayon nga naga-park sa NAIA halin pa sang tuig 2009, kag ang Boeing 737-200 nga wala na nagamit halin pa sang 2015.
Sang Setyembre 2024, nagsugod ang NNIC sa pagdumala sang operasyon sang airport kag gin-ugyunan sang Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP) kag Manila International Airport Authority (MIAA) sa pag-identify sang mga abandonado nga aircraft.
SSS, buhinan ang interest rates sa salary kag calamity loans
Gin-anunsyo sang Social Security System (SSS) nga buhinan sini ang interest rates para sa salary kag calamity loans.
Magatupa ang loan interest rate sa 8 percent samtang maga-us-os naman ang calamity loan interest rate sa 7 percent.
Pareho nga yara sa 10 percent ang interest rates sini subong.
Pahayag sang SSS, tuyo nila nga mapatuman ang pagnubo sang interest rates umpisa sa Hulyo 2025.
Gindugang sini nga para lang ini sa mga myembro nga wala nag-avail sang penalty condonation sa nagligad nga duha ka tuig, ukon mga myembro nga may maayo nga credit quality.
Antes sini, may kaangot nga anunsyo nga ginhimo si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
kadungan sang selebrasyon sang Labor Day sang Mayo 1.
Umpisa naman sa Septyembre, ang bana ukon asawa sang napatay nga pensioner ang mahimo man maka-apply sang loans nga tubtub sa P150,000.
Fuel prices, may rollback sa masunod nga semana
Natalana nga magnubo ang presyo sang produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana kasunod sang duha ka hugnat sang price hike.
Suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau, sandig sa apat ka adlaw nga trading sa Mean of Platts Singapore, yari ang possible nga ibuhin sa presyo:
Sa kada Lunes gina-anunsyo sang ahensya ang official price movements kag ginapatuman ini sa kada Martes sang aga.
Sang nagligad nga Martes, Abril 29, matandaan nga nagsaka ang presyo sang gasolina sang P1.35 sa kada litro; P0.80/L sa diesel; kag P0.70/L sa kerosene.
April inflation, magatupa sa 1.3 tubtub sa 2.1 percent —BSP
Ginalantaw sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) nga magatupa sa 1.3 tubtub sa 2.1 percent ang inflation rate sa Pilipinas sa Abril.
Suno sa central bank, nakabulig sa pagpabilin sa manubo nga inflation ang pagnubo sa presyo sang produktong petrolyo amo man sa bugas, isda kag prutas, amo man ang appreciation sang Philippine peso.
Sa Month Ahead forecast, nakasaad man nga ang posible nga maka-contribute sa pagsaka amo ang mataas nga balayran sa kuryente.
Matandaan nga 1.8% ang inflation sang Marso nga mas manubo sa 2.1% sang Pebrero kag sa 3.8% sang Enero.
Iga-anunsyo sang state statistics bureau ang April inflation rate sa Martes, Mayo 6.
LPG prices, nagnubo epektibo subong nga adlaw
Nagnubo ang presyo sang liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) products epektibo subong nga adlaw, imbukada sang Mayo.
Piso kada kilogram ang rollback nga nangin epektibo 12:01 am sa Petron, kag 6:00 sa aga naman sa Solane.
Sang April 1, 2025, pareho man nga nagpatuman sang rollback ang duha ka nasambitan nga kumpaniya kun sa diin may pagnubo nga P0.25 and P0.27 per kilo.
Epektibo na subong nga adlaw ang panibag-o nga pagsaka sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo
Gasoline – magasaka sang P1.35/L Diesel- magasaka sang P0.80/L Kerosene- magasaka sang P0.70/L
DA, nagmandu na nga isaylo sa Visayas ang NFA rice stocks nga gamiton sa P20/kilo program
sa National Food Authority (NFA) nga umpisahan ang pagsaylo sang stocks sang bugas sa Visayas bilang preparasyon sang paglunsar sang P20-per-kilo rice program.
Ini kasunod sang kumpirmasyon sang Commission on Elections (Comelec) nga ginhatagan sini sang exemption ang proyekto sang DA sa election spending ban kaangot sa nagahilapit nga May 12 national and local elections.
Suno sa DA, kuhaon ang suplay halin sa buffer stocks sang NFA nga nakalab-ot sa five-year high nga 7.17 million 50-kilogram bags sang milled rice.
As of the latest data, ang inventory nagsaka pa sa 7.56 million bags nga bastante na nga mapakaon ang pungsod sa 10 ka adlaw.
Suno pa sa DA, sinemana pa kalawigon sang pagsaylo sang ginatos ka libo nga 50-kilo bags halin sa NFA warehouses, partikular sa Mindoro, pakadto sa nagkalain-lain nga parte sang Visayas.
Bisan pa nga mas bastante nga suplay halin sa NFA warehouses sa Iloilo nga lab-ot sa 862,409 ka sako sang bugas, ginsiling ni NFA Administrator Larry Lacson nga kinahanglan magbyahe sang additional stocks halin sa Mindoro agud masuportahan ang areas nga may limitado nga rice production kaangay sang Cebu, Negros Island, Samar, kag Leyte.
DTI chief, magabyahe pakadto sa US sa tuyo nga mapanubo pa ang taripa sa PH exports
Magabyahe na padulong sa USA si Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) Secretary Cristina Roque subong nga semana kaangot sa plano nga mag-istorya sa Trump administration nahanungod sa polisa sa taripa.
Matabo naman ang meeting antes ang ila pagpauli sa Mayo 2.
Lakip sa sapulun sang duha amo ang trade gurus sang Trump administration nga sanday US Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Jamieson Greer kag Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick.
Matandaan nga sang Abril 2 sang gin-anunsyo ni US President Donald Trump ang baseline nga 10-percent tariff sa tanan nga mga produkto nga halin sa iban nga mga pungsod, kun sa diin may dugang nga reciprocal tariffs sa mga pungsod nga may trade deficit sa America.
17-percent tariff ang iya sang Pilipinas nga mas manubo sa mga kaiping sini sa Southeast Asia nga amo ang Vietnam (46 percent), Thailand (36 percent), Indonesia (32 percent), kag Malaysia (24 percent).
Grupo sang mga mamumugon, luyag ma-istorya si PBBM kaangot sa ginaduso nga wage hike
Naghingyo ang grupo sang mga mamumugon nga makig-istorya kay President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
kaangot sa pending gihapon nga mga hagna sa Kongreso nga ginduso agud pasakaan ang sweldo sa pribado nga sector.
Ginpasa sang National Wage Coalition ang ila sulat kay Labor Secretary Bienvenido Laguesma kahapon agud nga ma-facilitate sini ang dayalogo sa tunga sang Presidente kag sa labor sector.
Ini nga koalisyon ang ginabug-usan sang Bukluran ng Manggagawang Pilipino, Kilusang Mayo Uno, Nagkaisa kag Trade Union Congress of the Philippines.
Ginsiling sang grupo nga ang wage hike ang isa ka bagay nga ginadalian gid sang Filipino workers.
Pananglitan matabo ini nga istoryanay, mabatian ang sentimyento sang mga mamumugon antes ang Labor Day sa Mayo 1.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang president nga seryoso pa nga ginarepaso ang ginaproponer nga P200 daily pay hike.
Pilipinas, makasarang nga malab-ot ang upper-middle income status sa 2026 —Balisacan
Wala sang makapugong sa Pilipinas nga malab-ot ang target sini nga mangin upper-middle income economy sa 2026.
Ini ang ginpahayag ni National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) Secretary Arsenio Balisacan bisan pa nga may mga pagpanghangkat kaangay sang trade war sa tunga sang igapatuman ni US President Donald Trump nga reciprocal tariff policy.
Kumpyansa ang socioeconomic planning chief nga magasangkad ang gross domestic product (GDP) sang Pilipinas sa 6% nga amo ang pinakamanubo sa growth target sang Marcos administration subong nga tuig.
Sa idalom sang latest classification sang World Bank as of July 2024, nagapabilin ang Pilipinas sa lower middle income economy nga may gross national income (GNI) per capita nga $3,950 sang 2022 nga sulod sa bracket para sa sini nga status.
Kaupod sang Pilipinas sa sini nga bracket subong amo ang Vietnam ($4,010 GNI per capita); Laos ($2,360); Cambodia ($1,700); kag Myanmar ($1,210).
Yara naman sa upper-middle income level ang kaiping nga mga pungsod kaangay sang Malaysia ($11,780); Thailand ($7,230); kag Indonesia ($4,580).
Mas mataas pa gid ang Singapore ($67,200) kag Brunei ($31,410) nga yara na subong sa high-income bracket.
NFA, gin-anunsyo nga handa na sila magpadayon sa pagbakal sang humay (unmilled rice)
Gin-anunsyo sang National Food Authority (NFA) nga handa sila magpadayon sa pagbakal sang humay (unmilled rice) halin sa mga lokal nga mangunguma.
May yara na sila sang 7.17 million ka sako sang milled rice, sa sulod sang siyam ka adlaw nga stockpile.
Ginpasanyog man sang NFA ang ila storage infrastructure, lakip na ang warehouse kag handling facilities, agud masarangan ang target nga stockpile nga 555,000 metric tons sang milled rice ukon 880,000 metric tons sang humay sa sulod sang 15 ka adlaw nga buffer stock.
Ginlunsyar sang ahensya ang P10-bilyon nga modernization program para pasangkaron pa ang kapasidad sang rice inventory kag warehouse nga preparasyon sa mga palaabuton nga emerhensya.
nga ang pagreserba sang NFA ang magahatag sang kasiguraduhan nga may yara sang barato nga humay para sa mga apektado nga komunidad, posible pa nga mas mabarato pa sa P29 kada kilo nga subsidized rice, nga kabahin sang food security kag affordability agenda ni President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
DA, suguran na ang ₱1-billion swine repopulation program
Natalana nga suguran sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang ₱1-billion swine repopulation program bilang kabahin sang nagapadayon nga pagtinguha agud ma- restore ang hog population sang pungsod sa pre-African Swine Fever (ASF) levels.
Suno kay Agriculture Undersecretary for Livestock Dante Palabrica, aprubado ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel ang programa nga may plano nga mag- distribute sang kapin 30,000 ka mga baboy nga himuon nga nayon sa mga dalagko nga farms sa bilog nga pungsod.
Suno sa ahensya, ini nga mga farms ang magabayad sa gobyerno paagi sa pag-provide sang baboy nga ipanagtag sa backyard farmers.
Ang programa ang isa sa longer-term solutions sang ahensya agud pasanyugon liwat ang national hog inventory sa 14 million heads ukon swine population antes first outbreak sang ASF sang 2019.
Ang hog inventory sa pungsod subong ang yara sa ginabanta walo ka milyon.
Una naman nga ginhangkat ni Laurel ang swine industry agud mag-produce sang additional two million hogs umpisa sa 2026 agud makabalik sa pre-ASF population sa 2028.
Presyo sa gatong, liwat nga nagsaka subong nga adlaw
Liwat naman nga nagsaka ang presyo sang gatong epektibo subong nga adlaw.
Masobra piso nga saka sa presyo sang gasolina kag diesel, ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
Yari ang posible nga adjustment sandig sa forecast sang oil companies:
Diesel —magasaka sang P1.10 tubtub sa P1.40 per liter Gasoline —magasaka sang P1.30 tubtub sa P1.60 per liter
Sa Lunes masami nga gina-anunsyo sang firms kag sang Department of Energy (DOE) ang opisyal nga adjustment, kag ginapatuman ini epektibo sa kada Martes sang aga.
Sang Martes, Abril 15, matandaan nga daku ang nangin rollback sa presyo sang kada litro: P3.60 sa gasolina, P2.90 sa diesel, kag P3.30 sa kerosene.
China, ginpabugal ang bag-o nga free trade agreement sa ASEAN
Gin-anunsyo sang China nga nagtakop sang madinalag-on ang negosasyon sini para sa updated version sang China-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement (FTA).
Ginkumpirma ini ni Chinese Ambassador to the Philippines Huang Xilian sa tunga sang padayon nga trade war sa tunga sang Beijing kag Estados Unidos sang Amerika bangud sa taripa.
Ang bag-o nga agreement nga kilala nga version 3.0 amo ang magapabaskog sang trade relations sa tunga sang China kag member countries sang Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
Positibo si Huang nga malapit na lang ini mapirmahan para sa free trade kag masigurado ang patas kag bukas nga international economics.
Ginpadayaw man ni Huang nga ang ASEAN ang largest trading partner sang China, kag ang China man ang pinakadaku nga trading partner sang tanan nga ASEAN member states.
Nahibaluan nga ang China ang pinaka-naiguan sang taripa nga gin-anunsyo ni US President Donald Trump nga naglab-ot sa 145%.Nagbalos naman ang Beijing sang 125% levies sa American goods nga pasulod naman sa China.
Presyo sang isda sa pila ka merkado sa Iloilo City, nagsaka subong nga Semana Santa
May pagsaka sang presyo sang mga isda sa pila ka mga merkado sa Iloilo City, partikular sa La Paz Public Market subong nga Semana Santa.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Miss Joy, iya ka fish vendor, iya ginpahayag nga nagtaas ang presyo sang mga isda bangud sa limitado ang sakayan nga ginagamit sa pagpangisda.
Suno kay Joy, kalabanan sa iya supply nga isda ang naghalin sa Estancia, Banate, Carles, kag Concepcion.
Gintuad sini nga ang presyo sang kasag ang yara sa P550 kada kilo, samtang ang tamodyos ang P300 per kilo, bulaw nga P340 per kilo kag ang bukaw-bukaw nga P360 tubtob P380 kada kilo.
Ginpahayag man sang natungdan lauman pagid ang pagtaas sang presyo inadlaw antes ang Huwebes kag Byernes Santo.
Bigtime oil price rollback, ipatuman subong nga Semana Santa
Ipatuman subong nga Martes Santo ang bigtime oil price rollback.
Gasoline – maganubo sang P3.60 per liter Diesel – maganubo sang P2.90 per liter Kerosene – maganubo sang P3.30 per liter.
Suno sa Department of Energy, ang pagnubo sa presyo sang gatong ang bangud sa padayon nga nagalala nga tensyon sa tunga sang Estados Unidos kag China, nga nagresulta sa paghina sang demand para sa krudo.
Trump administration, naghatag sang tariff exemptions para sa smartphones kag computers
Gin-anunsyo sang administrasyon ni US President Donald Trump nga exempted ang smartphones, computers kag iban pa nga electronic devices sa “reciprocal” tariffs nga ipatuman sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika lakip na ang halin sa China.
Suno sa US Customs and Border Patrol, ini nga mga produkto ang excluded ukon wala ginlakip sa 10% global tariff nga gin-implementar sang president sa kadam-an nga mga pungsod kag sa Beijing.
Ini nga tikang ang kasunod sang mga kahangawa sang US tech companies nga magpanglakaak ang presyo sang gadgets ilabi na bangud kadam-an sa ila ang himo sang mga Chinese.
Ginalantaw naman sang trade analysts nga makaginhawa na sang maayo ang dalagku nga tech firms kaangay sang Apple, Nvidia, Microsoft kag ang mas masangkad nga tech industry kasunod sini nga development.
Nahibaluan nga ang smartphones amo ang nagapanguna sa gina-import sang US halin sa China sang 2024 kag ginasundan sang Chinese-built laptops suno sa record sang U.S.
Philippine gov’t officials, magabyahe padulong sa US sa Mayo para sa trade negotiations —DTI chief
Ginalantaw sang tiglikom sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) nga sa tunga-tunga sang bulan sang Mayo matabo ang trade negotiations sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika kasunod sang polisa ni Trump sa taripa.
Pahayag ni Roque, igaplastar nila ang suod nga relasyon sang Pilipinas kag Estados Unidos kag ang maragtas sang duha ka nasyon kun negosyo ang pagahambalan.
Ginsiling man sang opisyal nga ipakigbahin man nila sa US nga madamo na ang naga-invest subong sa Pilipinas ilabi na bangud madamo sang insentibo nga ginatanyag.
Paagi sini suno kay Roque, mahimo man mahatag sang Pilipinas ang pinakamaayo nga mga produkto sa pinakamaaayo man nga presyo.
Dugang sang trade secretary, luyag man sang mga pungsod sa Southeast Asia nga mag-negosyar sa US bilang isa ka bloc, apang ini nga tikang suno sa iya ang nakadepende sa tagsa ka pungsod subong.
Una na nga ginpaathag sang DTI kag Department of Agriculture (DA) nga yara sa maayo nga posisyon ang Pilipinas ipaanggid sa iban nga pungsod sa ASEAN kun taripa sang US ang pagahambalan.
Ini bangud 17% ang ginpatuman ni US President Donald Trump sa Philippine exports nga mas manubo ipaanggid sa iban nga kaiping nga nasyon nga naga-export man sang ila mga produkto.
Lakip sa ginhalimbawa sang trade official nga makabenepisyo sa tariff rate sang US amo ang agricultural products kaangay sang coconut oil kag dried mangoes.#
DA, opisyal nga ginlunsar ang Agri-Puhunan kag Pantawid Program (APP).
Opisyal nga ginlunsar sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang Agri-Puhunan kag Pantawid Program (APP), isa ka inisyatibo sang gobyerno nga nagahatag sang manubo nga interes nga pautang kag pinansyal nga bulig para sa mga mangunguma.
Ginpangunahan mismo ni President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos Jr.
Pinaagi sa APP, ang mga mangunguma pwede makahulam tubtob ₱60,000 kada cropping season nga may 2% nga annual interest rate.
Mabayaran nila ini paagi sa pagbaligya sang ila produkto sa National Food Authority (NFA) ukon sa mga kooperatiba nga accredited sang DA.
Magahatag man ang programa sang ₱8,000 nga subsistence allowance sa sulod sang apat ka bulan, halin sa pagtanom tubtob sa pag-ani.
Makabaton man ang mga benepisyaryo sang Intervention Monitoring Cards nga magaserbe bilang voucher para sa pagbakal sang mga farm inputs halin sa mga accredited nga suppliers.
Bilang dugang nga suporta, gin-anunsyo man ni Marcos ang pagpanghatag sang makinarya sa agrikultura, lakip na ang mobile disinfection truck kag forage chopper, agud mabuligan ang mga mangunguma nga mapasangkad pa ang ila produksyon kag kita.
Presyo sang tamudyos, may pagnubo inadlaw antes ang ginapanan-aw nga Holy Week increase —DA
Nagnubo ang presyo sang tamudyos inadlaw antes ang ginapanan-aw nga price hike nga matabo sa Semana Santa.
Suno kay Department of Agriculture (DA) spokesman Arnel de Mesa, naka-rekord ang ahensya sang P60-per-kilo decrease sa presyo sang tamudyos nga subong ginabaligya sa presyo nga P240 per kilo halin sa P300 per kilo nga presyo sang nagligad nga bulan.
Nagpabilin naman nga estable suno sa iya ang presyo sang iban nga isda sa merkado.
Sa masunod nga semana ginalantaw magahulag ang presyo kadungan sang Huwebes Santo kag Byernes Santo
Tipikal nga nagasaka sang 15 tubtub 30 porsyento ang presyo sang mga isda sa Holy Week bangud nagalikaw ang mga Katoliko sa pagkaon sang karne sa sini nga balaan nga semana.
Base pa sa DA, ini nga increase ang nagalawig sang tatlo tubtub sa lima ka adlaw.
Bigtime oil price rollback, ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
Yari ang possible nga ipatuman nga rollback sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo sa masunod nga semana santo sa estimate sang Department of Energy:
Gasoline – maganubo sang (3.30 – 3.75) Diesel – maganubo sang (2.90 – 3.40) Kerosene – maganubo sang (3.40 to 3.50)
Ipagwa naman ang pinal nga presyo sang gatong sa Lunes kag ipatuman ini sa Martes.
Philippine Coconut Authority, nagakahangawa sa padayon nga pagtaas sang presyo sang copra
Nagakahangawa ang Philippine Coconut Authority sa padayon nga pagtaas sang presyo sang copra nga posible magtuga sang dako nga epekto sa presyo sang mga produkto sa merkado kag maghatag sang pressure sa inflation sa bilog nga pungsod.
Ginpahayag sang ahensya nga ang lubi sa Pilipinas ang yara na sa kritikal nga sitwasyon sa diin kun indi matutukan ang nagataas nga presyo sang copra, maapektuhan ang operasyon sa mga processors, kag mahimo ini mapasa sa mga consumers.
Ini nga pagtaas sang presyo sang copra ang nagresulta man sa pagtaas sang presyo sang refined, bleached, kag deodorized coconut oil (RBD CNO), nga amo ang ginagamit sang kadam-an sa pagluto.
Gintipon man sang PCA ang mga lider sang industriya sang niyog, lakip na ang mga negosyante sa coconut oil milling, kag refining sectors, agud maistoryahan ang posible nga solusyon sa pagtaas sang presyo sang lana kag iban pa nga produkto sang niyog.
May yara sang paghagan-hagan sa presyo sang gatong subong nga adlaw, Abri 8.
Gasoline – maganubo sang P0.10/liter Kerosene- maganubo sang P0.50/liter
Samtang, wala naman sang pagbag-o sa presyo sang Diesel.
DTI, kumpyansa nga makabenepisyo pa ang Pilipinas sa ipatuman sang US nga reciprocal tariffs
Gin-ugyunan sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) ang pahayag sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga mahimo pa makabenepisyo ang Pilipinas apisar sang 17% nga reciprocal tariff nga ipatuman sang United States government sa Pinoy products nga magasulod sa ila pungsod.
Suno kay Trade Secretary Maria Cristina Roque, indi hamak nga mas mataas ang taripa sa iban nga mga pungsod nga kaiping sang Pilipinas nga amo ang: Cambodia nga may 49%, Laos nga may 48%, Vietnam nga may 46%, Thailand nga may 47%, China nga may 34%, India nga may 27%, South Korea nga may 26%, kag Malaysia nga may 24%.
Halimbawa suno sa natungdan, opurtunidad ini nga hingalitan nga mapasaka ang exports sa niyog sa American market bangud mas mataas ang rate kun maghalin ang amo nga produkto sa Thailand.
Ang laki noon ah, that’s very big for us.
Apang sa pihak sini, kinahanglan man suno kay Roque nga maninguha gid ang exporters nga sudlon ang markets.
“Sinabi ko rin sa kanila, I mean sa mga negosyante in general, let’s not put our eggs in one basket para (so that) just in case may ganitong nangyari, meron tayong ibang fallback,” dugang sang opisyal.
“Hindi pwede na kumbaga lahat nasa isang basket, but we are at an advantage.
In fact, after lumabas ‘yung 17%, tinawagan ko sila.
Matandaan nga amo man ini ang statement sang DA —nga mas pilion sang American importers ang Philippine goods sa baylo nga magkuha halin sa iban nga Southeast Asian countries.
Nahibaluan nga halin sang gin-anunsyo ni US President Donald Trump ang polisa sini sa taripa, masobra sa 50 ka mga pungsod ang nagkontak sa White House para nga maistoryahan ang negosyo suno sa top economic adviser ni Trump nga si US National Economic Council Director Kevin Hassett.#
17% nga taripa sa PH exports sa US, mahimo nga mangin pabor pa sa Pilipinas —DA chief
Ginpaathag sang tiglikom sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga mahimo nga mangin pabor pa sa Pilipinas ang bag-o nga taripa nga ipatuman sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., mas manubo ang taripa nga gin-implementar sa Philippine agricultural exports ipaanggid sa iban nga mga pungsod sa Southeast Asia.
Partikular sini nga ginmensyonar ang Indonesia, Vietnam, kag Thailand nga amo suno sa iya ang competitor sang Pilipinas.
Mahimo nga makabenepisyo ang Pilipinas diri suno kay Laurel, bangud kun makit-an sang US importers nga mas manubo ang taripa sa Pinoy products, mahimo nga magliso sila sa Pilipinas sa baylo nga mag-import halin sa iban nga ASEAN countries.
At base sa nakita kong tariff rates, tayo pinakamababa eh.
Isa sa pinakamababa among our neighbors,” suno kay Laurel.
Ginhalimbawa sini ang tilapia nga may 17% tariff, samtang 46% ang taripa sa Vietnam nga amo ang major supplier, kag 34% naman sa Thailand.
“Kung isda, definitely kung sinasabi natin tilapia, kung 17 percent lang tariff natin ng tilapia na fillet o kaya whole sa Amerika, tapos ang Vietnam which is a major supplier at 46 percent, and Thailand at 34 percent, mas lamang tayo,” suno sa tiglikom.
Nahibaluan nga lakip sa gina-export sang Pilipinas sa US amo ang niyog, ang tuna, kag iban pa nga mga isda.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpahayag naman si Trade Secretary Ma.
Cristina Roque nga maid-id nga gina-monitor sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) ang potential impact sa ekonomiya sang Pilipinas kasunod sang imposition sang US reciprocal tariffs sa Philippine goods.
Kabahin ini sang “reciprocal tariff” policy nga gin-anunsyo ni US President Donald Trump nga mangin epektibo sa Abril 9 sa masobra 100 ka mga pungsod.
Sa Truth Social page ni Trump, ang mga produkto halin sa Pilipinas nga magasulod sa America ang dagdagan sang 17% tariff—nga makabig pa nga “discounted” reciprocal tariff ipaanggid sa 34% rate nga gina-charge sang Manila charges sa goods nga halin sa USA.#
DOE, magadugang sang 912 ka public charging stations
Magadugang ang Pilipinas sang 912 pa ka public charging stations suno sa Department of Energy (DOE), kalabanan sini ang yara sa Metro Manila.
Ginpahayag sang DOE nga agud mapadasig ang paglapta sang electric vehicles (EVs), ang ahensya magahimo sang bag-o nga mga pagsulundan kag magpatigayon sang konsultasyon sa publiko agud masiguro nga ang dugang nga charging networks ang safe, epektibo, kag sustainable.
Ipaguwa ang guidelines para sa EV charging station providers sini nga Abril, kag may yara sang konsultasyon sa ikaduha nga quarter para sa tuig 2025.
Ang pungsod nagatarget nga makaangkon sang kapin sa 7,000 charging stations sang electric vehicles sa 2028.
World Bank, ginpautang ang Pilipinas sang $800 million para suportahan ang energy transition
Aprubado na sang World Bank ang utang sang Pilipinas nga $800-million ukon masobra P45.61-billion para sa pagsaylo sa clean energy kag sa pag-promote sang climate resilience sa pungsod.
Suno sa multilateral lender, nagpasugot ang board of directors sa loan agud nga masuportahan ang gobyerno sang Pilipinas sa pagpaninguha sini nga maka-adoptar sang clean energy technologies, mapasaka ang security kag competition sang electricity markets, kag mapaayo man ang water management.
Sa idalom sang First Energy Transition and Climate Resilience Development Policy Loan, ginalauman nga mapataas ang share sang renewable energy sa installed generation capacity sa 42 percent pag-abot sang 2027.
Halin ini sa na-rekord nga 30 percent sang 2023.
Ini nga utang amo man ang gamiton sa pagbakal sang 1,000 megawatts sang bag-o nga offshore wind capacity amo man para sa implementasyon sang energy efficiency measures.
Dugang pa diri, ang loan amo man ang maga-suporta sa paggamit sang electric vehicles sa pampubliko nga sector.
Magabulig man ang programa nga mapaayo ang water resources management kag water supply and sanitation paagi sa mga reporma nga suno sa administrasyon magapaayo pa sang koordinasyon sang nasyonal kag local nga mga panguluhan.
Nahibaluan nga subong nga tuig, ang ginapreparahan sang Department of Energy amo ang tatlo ka green power auctions nga naga-cover sang solar, wind, hydropower, geothermal kag battery energy storage systems.#
Milk imports sang Pilipinas, nagtimbuok sang 2024
Nagtimbuok ang inbound milk shipments sang Pilipinas sang malapit 20 percent sang nagligad nga tuig bangud sa pagkuha sang mga traders sa mas madamo nga pungsod agud malab-ot ang nagataas nga demand para sa gatas.
Sa report sang National Dairy Authority (NDA), ang volume yara sa 3.5 billion liters sang 2024, nga nagtaas sang 19.9 percent halin sa 2.9 billion liters sang 2023.
Suno sa ahensya, ang value sini naglab-ot sa P80.1 billion, nga nagtaas sang halos 5 percent gikan sa P76.3 billion.
Santo sa report, ang 39.62-percent nga pagsaka sa skim milk powder imports kag ang 15.69-percent rise sa iban nga powdered milk imports, kaupod ang mas mataas nga liquid ready-to-drink milk nga ginbakal overseas ang nagpa-improve sang volume sang nagligad nga tuig.
Presyo sang LPG products, may rollback epektibo subong nga Abril 1
May pagnubo sa presyo sang liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) products epektibo subong nga adlaw, Abril 1.
Sa Solane, may rollback nga P0.27 per kilo epektibo 6:00 subong nga aga.
Samtang sa Petron naman, nagnubo man ang LPG prices sang P0.25 per kilo umpisa 12:01 kaina sang kaagahon.
Ini nga duha ka mga kumpaniya ang nag-implementar man sang rollback sa sini nga produkto sang Marso 1, 2025.
Oil price hike, epektibo na subong nga adlaw
May bigtime oil price hike nga ipatuman subong nga adlaw, Abril 1.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) Assistant Director Rodela Romero, lakip sa mga rason sa pagsaka sa presyo sang gatong amo ang US sanctions sa Iran, ang pamahog sa pagpasaka sang taripa sa mga pungsod nga nagabakal sang Venezuelan crude oil, kag ang padayon nga pag-atake sang Russia kag Ukraine sa energy installations.
Big time oil price hike, ipatuman sa Abril 1
May bigtime oil price hike nga ipatuman bwas, Abril 1.
Gasoline – magataas sang 1.40 per liter Diesel – magataas sang P1.20 Kerosene – magataas sang P1.20
66,235 MT sang kalamay nga i-export sang Pilipinas sa USA, ginahanda na
Ginahanda na ang 66,235 metric tons (MT) sang kalamay nga iga-export sang Pilipinas sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika umpisa sa Abril subong nga tuig.
Suno kay Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) Administrator Pablo Luis Azcona, ginahanda na sang exporters ang duha ka mga barko nga amo ang magadala sang kalamay.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, madumduman nga diutayan lang nga wala nakahingabot ang Pilipinas sa Septyembre 30 nga deadline.
Natigayon nga nakaabot ang produkto sang Septyembre 27 apang may natabo na nga discoloration kag quality deterioration rason nga may gindagdag nga 10-percent penalty.
Subong nga tuig, himuon ang shipment kadungan sang milling season agud masigurado nga preska pa ang iga-export.
Pahayag ni Azcona, napahibalo na sang ahensya ang United States nga idul-ong ang raw sugar antes ang Agusto.
Sa sitwasyon naman sa pag-harvest kag paggaling sang tubo sa Negros Island Region, ginsiling ni Azcuna nga kadam-an sa sugar producers sa south ang manugtapos naman; samtang sa north naman, may mga delay lang nga nagakatabo bangud sa masami nga pag-ulan.
Una naman nga nag-promisa ang Department of Agriculture (DA) kag ang SRA sa sugarcane farmers nga wala sang sugar importation order nga ipaguwa halin sa Mayo tubtub sa Hunyo.
DA, nagalaum nga mangin apat ka pilo ang ila budget sa masunod nga tuig
Luyag sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga himuon sang apat kag pilo ang ila budget sa masunod nga tuig agud mapasangkad ang suporta sa mga mangunguma.
Suno sa ahensya, pinaagi sa sini nga lihok, mabuhinan ang pag-import sang mga produkto.
Base sa Philippine Council for Agriculture and Fisheries (PCAF), ang DA-NCP nagapangayo sang masobra 300% nga pagtaas sang ila budget sa masunod nga tuig halin sa subong nga P5 billion nga alokasyon.
Ang mas mataas nga budget ang gamiton para pabaskugon ang mga serbisyo para sa produksyon bilang parte sang mga paghimakas sang ahensya nga mapanami ang local nga produksyon kag mabuhinan ang pag-import sang mais.
Suno kay Milo delos Reyes, director sang DA-NCP, ang mas mataas nga budget ang makapasigurado sa paghatag mas madamo nga mga binhi kag fertilizer sa mga mangunguma sa bilog nga pungsod.
Ginpahayag ni Delos Reyes nga plano sang ahensya nga maglunsyar sang isa ka programa nga makabulig sa pagpataas sang kita sang mga mangunguma sang mais kag iban pa.
Swine, cattle imports halin sa Hungary kag S.
Korea, gin-ban anay sa Pilipinas bangud sa FMD
Temporaryo nga gin-ban sang Pilipinas ang swine kag cattle imports lakip na ang ila nga karne halin sa South Korea kag Hungary bangud sa foot-and-mouth disease (FMD).
ang separado nga memorandum orders para sa importation ban matapos gin-report ang FMD cases sa domestic buffaloes sa Hungary sang Marso 7, kag domestic cattle naman sa South Korea sang Marso 18.
Ini nga kaso sang duha ka pungsod ang pareho nga kumpirmado ang ila nga veterinary authorities kag gin-report sa World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH).
Ang FMD isa ka severe kag highly contagious disease nga nagaapekto sa livestock nga rason sang daku nga kapierdehan sa ekonomiya.
Ang mga sapat naman nga delikado sa virus sini ang nagalakip sang baka, baboy, karne, kag iban nga cloven-hoofed ruminants.
Oil Price Hike, ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
Suno kay Rodela Romero, Assistant Director III sang Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau, ang pagsaka sa presyo sang gatong ang base sa apat ka adlaw nga trading.
Marcos admin, plano nga maghulam sang ₱735 billion sa second quarter sang 2025
Plano sang Marcos administration nga maghulam sang ₱735 billion sa second quarter sang 2025.
Humalin sa Abril tubtob Hunyo, plano sang gobyerno nga maghulam sang ₱325 billion sa Treasury bills (T-bills), mas mataas sang 23% ukon ₱61 billion sa ₱264 billion sa first quarter.
Sang 2024, ang gross borrowings sang Marcos administration ang nagtimbuok sa ₱2.56 trillion nga mas mataas sang ₱370 billion ukon malapit sa 17 percent nga increase halin sa ₱2.19 trillion sang 2023.
Gin-report sang Philippine Egg Board Association (PEBA) ang pagsaka sa demand sang itlog.
Gin-angot ni PEBA President Francis Uyehara ang paglain sang consumer preference sa nagkalain-lain man nga economic factors.
Ginpahayag sini nga una nagsaka ang presyo sang karne sang baboy bangud sa epekto sang African swine fever (ASF) gani nga nagsaylo ang mga tawo sa pagkaon sang manok.
Apang sa una nga quarter sang tuig, nagtaas naman ang presyo sang manok, gani nga nagsaylo naman ang mga tawo sa itlog.
Sa tunga sang pagsaka sang demand, may nakit-an naman nga mga problema sa presyuhanay kag kadakuon sang mga itlog sa nagkalain-lain nga mga mercado, bangud may iban nga mga manugbaligay nga gina-manipula gid ang egg sizes agud mapatalang ang manugbakal.
Ginahungod man suno sa natungdan nga wala sang label ang mga itlog, gani ang magagmay ginabutang sa medium-sized.
Bangud sini, nagapanawagan si Uyehara sa mga consumer nga indi man magpadala-dala gilayon kag ipamangkot gid ang presyo kag bug-at sang itlog antes baklon.
PH kag Japan, nagpirma sang 5 agreements balor P65.4 billion para sa big-ticket infra projects
Nagpirma ang Pilipinas kaupod ang Japan sang lima ka financing agreements nga nagabalor sang P65.4 billion agud pondohan ang big-ticket infrastructure projects, amo man ang climate kag universal health-care programs sang gobyerno.
Ang loan packages ginpirmahan sang mga opisyal sang Pilipinas kag tiglawas sang Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica).
Ang nabilin nga financing agreements ang para sa pag-provide sang budgetary support para sa government programs sa ikaayong lawas kag climate change mitigation.
Suno sa DOF,ang financing para sa Climate Change Action Program, Subprogram 2 nga nagabalor sang P13.35 billion ang maga- equip sa gobyerno sang financial capability agud mapatuman ang dugang nga climate adaptation, mitigation kag disaster preparedness initiatives.
Ang P11.44-billion loan package naman para sa Build Universal Health Care, Subprogram 2 ang magabulig sa pagpaayo pa sang access sa quality health services.
BSP, nagpagwa sang memorandum agud pabaskugon ang surveillance kag monitoring systems vs vote buying
Nagpagwa ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) sang memorandum para sa mga BSP-supervised financial institutions (BSFIs) agud pabaskugon ang ila surveillance kag monitoring systems kontra sa pagbakal kag pagbaligya sang boto, ilabi na sa nagahilapit nga eleksyon.
M-2025-006, nga ginpirmahan sang Marso 23, 2025, ang nagamando nga maghimo sang tikang sa mga institusyon para kontrahon ang indi insakto nga pag-gamit sang mga digital channels, kaangay sang online banking kag mobile wallet applications, para sa pagbakal kag baligya sang boto.
Ginpasalig sang BSP nga bantayan ang anomaliya, kaangay sang gulpi nga pagtaas sang registration nga account sa mga lugar nga kilala sa pagbakal kag baligya sang boto nga may mga dalagko nga cash transactions sa tion sang eleksyon.
Ang memorandum sang BSP, nga kapareho sang mga nauna nga memorandum sang mga nagliligad nga eleksyon ang sabat sa panawagan sang Commission on Elections (COMELEC) pamaagi sa Resolution No.
11104, nga ginpagwa sang Enero 28, 2025, para sa mas hugot nga tikang batok sa pagbakal kag pagbaligya sang boto.
Kaupod sang BSP ang COMELEC kag Philippine National Police (PNP) sa pagtutok sa election-related cases ilabi na sa pagbakal kag pagbaligya sang mga boto gamit ang mga financial platforms.
VP Sara Warns FPRRD: Magiging Ninoy Aquino Jr.
“Sinabi ko din sa kanya ‘yon, ‘Pa, ‘yung kagustuhan mo na umuwi, iyan din ‘yung katapusan ng buhay mo—magiging Ninoy Aquino Jr.
“Napakalayo po na ipagkumpara ang sarili o ikumpara ang dating Pangulong Duterte kay Ninoy Aquino na hindi nagkaroon ng anumang record ng mass murder or crimes against humanity.
Mas ninais po ni dating Pangulong Duterte na ikumpara ang sarili niya kay Hitler.”
Presyo sang gatong, magasaka bwas, Marso 25
Magasaka na naman ang presyo sang gatong bwas, Marso 25.
Lakip sa mga rason nga nagaapekto sa presyo sang gatong amo ang expansion sang Israel sa ila ground operations sa Gaza, ang nagalala nga tension sa Middle East, bag-o nga consumption action plan sang China kag ang paghina sang US oil inventories.
Mga benepisyayo sang P29 per kilo rice program, mahimo na makabakal tubtob sa 30 kilos nga bugas kada bulan
Pwedi na makabakal asta sa 30 kilos nga bugas kada bulan ang mga benepisyayo sang P29 per kilo rice program, ini suno sa Department of Agriculture matapos gn-triple ang monthly allocation.
nga ipatuman sa bilog nga pungsod ang ba-o nga patakaran, ini iya ginpahayag sang byernes sa isa ka event nga “Trabaho at Serbisyong Pangkalusugan sa Bagong Pilipinas”
Ginaganyat man ni Laurel, nga sundon ang bag-o nga pagsulondan, base man ini sa panawagan sang mga pamuluyo nga ginakulang sa kwarta ilabi na sa bugas.
Dugang pa ni Laurel, mabakal na ang P29 ang kada kilo nga bugas sa mga Kadiwa store kag center, kabahin na diri mga vulnerable sectors pareho sang mga senior citizens, persons with disabilities (PWDs), solo parents, kag indigent.
Ginabaligya ang bugas sa dalom sang programa nga naghalin sa buffer stocks sang National Food Authority (NFA).
Grupo sang exporters, nagahingyo sang dugang nga suporta halin sa gobyerno
Nagahingyo ang grupo sang exporters sang mas mabaskog nga suporta gikan sa gobyerno para nga mapadala ang mga produkto sang Pilipinas sa luwas sang pungsod.
Ginpahayag ini ni Philippine Exporters Confederation Inc.
bangud sa kahangawa nga indi malab-ot sang export performance ang ila nga target subong nga tuig.
Suno kay Ortiz-Luiz, ang $110-billion projection ang mas manubo sa export target nga $113.42 billion sa idalom sang Philippine Development Plan kag sa $163.6-billion nga target sa idalom naman sang Philippine Export Development Plan para sa 2025.
Magluwas na kulang ang budget para sa export ilabi na sa promotion, may mga domestic and external risks man sila nga ginapangatubang suno sa natungdan lakip na ang malain nga tyempo, ang mga kalamidad, ang acute and protracted global economic slowdown sa major economies, ang nagapadayon nga geopolitical tensions and conflicts, trade wars kag protectionist trade policies ilabi na sa Estados Unidos.
Nagalaum ang natungdan nga matigayon ang mga free trade agreements (FTA) kaupod sa iban nga pungsod subong nga tuig agud nga mas mapaayo kuntani ang ila performance sa pag-export sang goods, services kag investments.
Oil price hike, ipatuman sa matapos ang 3 ka sunod-sunod nga rollback
Matapos ang tatlo ka sunod-sunod nga semana nga oil price rollback, magasaka na naman ang presyo sang gatong sa ulihi nga semana sang Marso.
Imported red onions nga nag-abot sa Pilipinas sang nagligad nga bulan, naubos na —DA
Naubos na sa pagbaligya ang 2,300 metric tons sang imported red onions nga nag-abot sa Pilipinas sang nagligad lamang nga bulan.
Suno ini kay Department of Agriculture (DA) Assistant Secretary Arnel de Mesa nga amo man ang spokesperson sang ahensya.
nga i-import agud nga mapanubo ang retail price sang bombay nga naglab-ot anay sa P200 per kilo sang Pebrero.
Una na nga nagdepensa ang DA sa importasyon sa tunga sang mga pagpamalabag sang grupo sang mga mangunguma.
Ginsiling sang ahensya nga kinahanglan ini nga lihok para matapna ang pagpanglakaak sang presyo sa mercado.
Nagpaandam naman ang farmers’ groups nga ang imported bulbs ang mahimo magpanubo man sang farmgate price sang bombay kadungan sang harvest season.#
Ginapaabot sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga makuha na sa masunod nga bulan ang approval sang Food and Drug Administration (FDA) kaangot sa commercial rollout sang African swine fever (ASF) vaccines nga halin sa Vietnam.
Suno ini kay Agriculture Assistant Secretary Arnel de Mesa nga amo man ang spokesperson sang ahensya.
Suno kay De Mesa, ini nga mga bakuna ang epektibo bangud healthy ang kadam-an sa nabakunahan na nga mga baboy.
29,000 sa 160,000 available doses sang ASF vaccines ang na-administer na, lakip na ang 10,000 doses nga nabaton sang gobyerno paagi sa emergency procurement.
Agusto sang una nga ginpatigayon sang DA ang vaccination drive agud matapna ang outbreak sang ASF kaangay sang natabo sang 2019 nga nag-resulta sa binilyon ka pesos nga kapierdehan kag daku gid nga buhin sa local swine population.
Pagkamahiligon sang mga Chinese sa pagkaon sang pinya, bentaha para sa Pilipinas
Dako ang nangin kontribusyon sang pagkamahiligon sang mga Chinese sa pagkaon sang pinya agud makarecord ang Pilipinas sang malapit $800 million nga kita sa export sang nagligad nga tuig.
Base sa data sang Philippine Statistics Authority, ang kit halin sa exports sang pinya kag mga produkto sini ang nagtaas sang 7.5 percent sang annual basis sa $787.12 million.
Masbora sa tunga sang export receipts ang halin sa shipments sang fresh ukon dried pineapples.
Ang Pilipinas nag-export sang $183.43 million nga balor sang pinya sa China sang 2024 nga halos 18 percent nga mas mataas sa $155.73 million nga narecord sang 2023.
Ang China nagapabilin nga top destination para sa mga pinya sang pungsod.
Una na ginpahayag sang United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) nga ang pineapple exports sang Pilipinas sa 2024 ang magasaka sa bag-o nga record level bangud sa nagataas nga demand sang Chinese consumers para sa premium pineapples nga halin sa Pilipinas.
May rollback na naman sa presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo sa bwas.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) Assistant Director Rodela Romero, sa produktong petrolyo, ang Gasoline lang ang wala sang paghulag.
Diesel – maganubo sang P0.20 Kerosene – maganubo sang P0.40
DA chief, nagkadto sa Japan para maistoryahan ang banana exports issue, nagpanawagan sang trade pact review
Nagpadulong ang tiglikom sang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa Japan agud nga madiskusyunan ang dapat himuon sa tunga sang pagluya sang market sang saging nga gina-export sang Pilipinas.
Naangot ini sa data nga ang Pilipinas ang nagasuplay sang 90% sang banana market sa Japan sang 2012, nagnubo sa 79% sang 2023, kag nag-us-os pa gid sa 75% sang 2024.
Gin-istoryahan ang mas maayo nga arrangements sa idalom sang Philippines-Japan Economic Partnership Agreement (PJEPA).
Bangud top exporter sang saging ang Pilipinas sa Japan, lakip sa ginahingyo ni Laurel amo nga buhinan ang taripa, para nga mapasaka ang investment sa banana production.
Wala pa sang commitment ang Japan nga repasuhon ang amo nga kasugtanan, apang may suhestyon ang mga opisyal nga i-address ang trade concerns sa idalom sang Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) nga amo ang mas masangkad nga free trade agreement nga naga-involve man sang ASEAN countries, China, South Korea, Australia, kag New Zealand.
Apang mas gusto sang Pilipinas ang bilateral review sang PJEPA bangud nagapati ang gobyerno nga indi patas ang benepisyo kun gamiton ang regional approach.
Nagpakigkita man si Laurel sa Japanese banana importers kag Philippine exporters sa Tokyo para sa roundtable discussion.
Nahibaluan nga sa Mindanao makit-an ang kadam-an sang plantasyon sang saging.
Ang kabug-usan nga produksyon sini sa pungsod ang naga-generate sang average nga masobra $1 billion sa export revenues kag nagahatag sang palangabuhian sa masobra 700,000 nga mga Pilipino.
PSA, magapatigayon sang survey sa sugar consumption sang pungsod
Magapatigayon ang Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) sang isa ka survey nga nagatinguha nga makaangkon sang mas maayo nga panan-awan sang demand sang kalamay sa pungsod agud mabuligan ang mga opisyales sa paghimo sang data-driven policies, lakip ang importation.
Ginpahayag sang PSA nga gin-clear sini ang P2.5-million nga pagtuon nga may tig-ulo nga “Updating the Consumption Study of Sugar in the Philippines” sa una nga first half.
Ang survey ang iga-implementar sang Philippine Statistical Research and Training Institute, sa diin ang inisyatibo ang pangunahan sang Sugar Regulatory Administration.
Nahibaluan nga ang survey magasakop sang 2,760 ka mga households, 660 ka mga establishments, kag maga-generate sang profile sang kabug-usan nga konsumo sang nagkalainlain nga mga sweeteners sa domestic market.
Presyo sang gatong, may rollback na naman
May rollback na naman sa presyo sang mga produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB) Assistant Director Rodela Romero, possible nga magnubo ang presyo sang gatong santo sa apat ka adlaw nga industry estimates.
Yari ang ginabanta nga pagnubo sa presyo sang gatong:
Gasoline – maganubo sang P0.10 tubtob P0.40 Diesel – maganubo sang P0.20 tubtob P0.60 Kerosene – maganubo sang P0.30 tubtob P0.60
Ipagwa naman ang pinal nga oil price rollback sa Lunes kag ipatuman naman ini sa Martes.
Marcos: Certified investments, naglab-ot na sa P4.6T as of February, makahatag sang 300,000 jobs
Ginpabugal ni President Ferdinand ”Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
nga naglab-ot na ang balor sang strategic investments sa masobra P4.6 trillion (as of February 2025).
Suno sa presidente kadungan sang iya speech sa Gawad Bayanihan sa Pamumuhunan Milestone Event sa Malacañang, malapit sa 190 strategic investments ang naaprubahan sang gobyerno sa nagkalain-lain nga sektor.
Ginmensyonar man sini nga target sang iya administrasyon nga makahimo sang business landscape kun sa diin mahimo mag-umwad pareho ang local kag foreign investors.
Suno pa sa presidente, paagi sa sini nga investments, may mahatag nga ginabanta 300,000 ka mga trabaho sa Pilipinas.
Ang gintambungan nga event ni Marcos amo man ang nagamarka sang una nga tuig sang implementasyon sang nationwide ease of doing business initiative.
Sa ika-2 nga sunod-sunod nga tuig, ang Pilipinas naga-export sang kalamay sa Estados Unidos
Padayon ang Pilipinas sa pag-export sang raw sugar sa Estados Unidos sa ulihi nga bahin sini nga tuig agud ma-establisar ang presyo para sa mga domestic farmers antes ang ginapaabot nga pagdamo sang suplay sa tion sang lokal nga milling season sa Septyembre.
Ini ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga tuig nga ang Pilipinas magapadala sang raw sugar sa US, samtang nagalaum ang mga regulators nga bukas ang merkado sang Amerika sa mga lokal nga producers.
Ang Sugar Regulatory Administration (SRA) nagpaguwa sang Sugar Order No.
5 nga nagadumala sa pagpadala sang 66,000 metric tons (MT) sang raw sugar sa merkado sang Estados Unidos.
Base sa mando, ang alokasyon sa export sang US magahalin sa lokal nga raw sugar nga ginbakal sang mga kwalipikado nga mga participants sa idalom sang voluntary purchase program nga gin-umpisahan sang SRA sang nagligad nga bulan.
Dugang nga red kag yellow alerts, posible sa summer —NGCP
Lauman ang pagpaguwa sang red ukon yellow alerts sa summer months sa Pilipinas.
Pahayag ini sang National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP) bangud sa mga indi planado nga outages sa mga planta nga nagaapekto gid sa power supply.
Suno kay NGCP spokesperson Cynthia Alabanza, indi madula ini nga “worst-case” scenario ilabi na kun madamo gid nga power plants ang maka-eksperyensya sang unexpected shutdowns.
Sa yellow alert, malab-ot pa man sang power supply ang demand, apang matabo gihapon ang brownouts bilang resulta kun mag-breakdown ang planta.
Kun sa red alert naman, indi na bastante ang suplay agud nga ma-meet ang demand, kag matabo gid ang brownout kun indi ma-manage ang demand.
Indi man subong mahambal sang grid operator kun ano gid ang extend kag kalala ang alerts bangud lakip pa ini sa ginadiskusyunan kaupod sa Department of Enery.
Marso 5 sang gindeklarar sang NGCP ang yellow alert sa Luzon grid nga amo ang una nga alert nga napaguwa subong nga tuig.
Padayon subong ang pag-assess kag pag-adjust sa power outlook sang NGCP kag DOE matapos nakit-an ang surge sa demand.
Base sa data, ang power demand subong nga tuig ang mahimo magsaka sa 5.4 percent tubtub sa 14,769 megawatts (MW) sa Luzon; 16 percent tubtub sa 3,111 MW sa Visayas; kag 8.2 percent tubtub sa 2,789 MW sa Mindanao.
Liwat nga magapatuman sang oil price rollback ang nga kumpaniya sang gatong bwas, Marso 11.
Suno kay Director Rodela Romero, Assistant Director sang Oil Industry Management Bureau sang Department of Energy, yari ang pagnubo sa presyo sang gatong:
BAI, nagpaandam vs unregistered pet food products nga ginabaligya online
Nagpaandam ang Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) batok sa paglapta sang mga indi rehistrado nga pet food products nga ginabaligya online lakip na sa bantog nga e-commerce platforms kag sa TikTok.
Sa advisory sang ahensya, ginsiling nga nakumpirma sa ila nga post-marketing surveillance kag verification sang records nga may nagkalain-lain nga mga produkto online nga kulang sa husto nga certification.
Ginpahayag man nga indi ma-identify kun sin-o ang suppliers.
Gina-abisuhan ang mga tag-iya sini nga produkto nga magpakig-angot sa BAI kag sa Food and Drug Administration, ilabi na sa items nga may therapeutic claims agud nga masiguro ang proper evaluation kag registration.
Pahayag pa sang bureau, indi man dapat pagbaklon kag i-promote sang pet owners ang unregistered feed products tubtub nga ma-certify na ini sang BAI kag FDA.
Lakip sa unregistered products kag brands nga nadiskubrehan sang BAI amo ang veTcore+, Fit Paws, Tovitar, Popoo kag Petcher Organics.
Lakip sa items ang pagkaon sang ido, produkto para sa pagpanami pa sa fur, hip and joint health, kag gut health sang hinuptanan, kag naga-claim man nga maka-boost sang immunity.
Nahibaluan nga isa sa pinakadasig sa market sa Pilipinas subong ang pet food rason nga nagsulod naman ang domestic animal feed makers sa pet food products para maislan ang nadula nga demand halin sa traditional markets.
Ginabanta sang industry players nga ang pet food market sa pungsod ang nagadangat sa P24 billion kag mas nagadaku sa kada tuig.
Grupo sang hog producers, suportado ang maximum SRP para sa karne sang baboy
Suportado sang grupo sang hog producers ang desisyon sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga magpatuman sang maximum suggested retail price (SRP) sa karne sang baboy epektibo buwas nga adlaw, Marso 10.
Ang tikang nga ini ang nagatuyo nga matapna ang nagapanglakaak nga presyo sang amo nga mga produkto.
Suno kay Pork Producers Federation of the Philippines president Rolando Tambago, kinahanglan gid ang maximum SRP nga P350 sa pork shoulder kag P380 sa pork belly bangud tuman man ka taas ang retail price subong nga P480 per kilo.
Indi man rasonable ini nga presyo suno sa iya bisan isiling pa nga apektado sang African Swine Fever (ASF) ang produksyon sang baboy.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginapanan-aw sini nga magnubo ang consumption sang karne kadungan sang pag-obserbar sang Lenten season.
Nahibaluan nga santo sa nauna nga anunsyo sang DA, iimplementar ang MSRP sa karne sang baboy sa mga mercado sa National Capital Region (NCR).
Ginhimo ang desisyon kasunod sang mahinalungon nga konsultasyon sa industry stakeholders nga ginalakipan sang producers, wholesalers, traders, kag retailers.
Iga-repaso ang MSRP pagkatapos sang isa ka bulan agud matumod kun kinahanglanon ang adjustments.
Ginklaro nga indi ini pag-iimplementar sa supermarkets kag hypermarkets bangud natural nga mas mataas gid man ang ila nga operating costs.#
Poultry products halin sa 3 US states, gin-ban anay sa Pilipinas bangud sa bird flu
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang implementasyon sang importation ban sa domestic kag wild bird kag tanan nga poultry products halin sa tatlo ka states sa United States of America.
Kabahin gihapon ini sa pagpangudal sang Pilipinas agud nga indi maapektuhan ang local poultry sang outbreak sang highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 strain.
Epektibo ang trade restrictions sa tanan nga domestic kag wild birds lakip na sa poultry meat, eggs, day-old chicks, semen, kag iban pa nga related products halin sa tatlo ka mga estado.
Buot silingon sang ban, suspended naman ang processing, evaluation, kag issuance sang Sanitary kag Phytosanitary Import Clearances para sa sini nga commodities.
Pilipinas, ginbawi na ang implementasyon sang ban sa poultry products halin sa France
Ginbawi na sang Pilipinas ang pagpatuman sang ban sa importasyon sang domestic kag wild birds amo man sang poultry products halin sa France.
Ini nga development ang kasunod sang report sang French authorities sa World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH) nga nagtapos na ang tanan nga kaso sang highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) nga may resolved status.
Wala naman sang dugang nga outbreaks halin sang Pebrero 4, 2025.
Matandaan nga Septyembre 2024 sang ginmandu sang DA ang temporary importation ban sa mga pispis kag poultry products halin sa France bangud sa avian flu outbreak sa amo nga pungsod sa Europa.
DA kag FTI, ginpahanugotan ang mga LGUs nga makautang sang bugas sa NFA
Suno kay Castro, ginahatagan sang 1 ka bulan ukon 30 ka adlaw ang mga LGUs agud mag-procure sang bugas kag dayon bayaran kon mabaligya na.
Daku ang bulig sang nasambit nga tikang ilabi na sa mga LGUs nga wala sang pundo ukon kwarta para ibakal sang NFA rice.
Nagapati si Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel nga ang nasambit nga tikang ang isa ka paagi agud madasig nga mapaguwa ang NFA rice.
Apang suno kay Castro, wala pa ginmensyonar sang DA kon pila ang mahimo nga mautang sang isa ka LGU nga bugas kag kon ano ang mangin sistema kon mag-utang.
Una nga ginpahayag ni NFA administrator Larry Lacson nga 70 ka mga LGUs ang nagpabutyag sang interes sa pagkuha sang bugas sang NFA, nangin mahinay man ang pag-release sang supply bangud sa mahinay nga proseso san mga LGUs, samtang ang iban kulang sa pundo.
Presyo sang karne sang baboy, maganubo subong nga bulan —DA
Kumpyansa ang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga maganubo gid subong nga bulan ang presyo sang karne sang baboy.
Ginplastar sang spokesperson sang ahensya nga si Undersecretary Arnel V.
de Mesa ang nagaayo nga produksyon kag ang pasalig sang industriya nga maga-us-os ang presyo sang produkto sa merkado.
Suno sa opisyal, nagsugtanay ang pork producers, traders, kag retailers nga repasuhon ang ila nga cost structures antes ang pagpatuman sang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP).
Ginbalikan man ni De Mesa nga nagnubo na gani ang presyo sini sa P214 kada kilo halin sa P250-P260 sang nagligad nga Pebrero.
Ginpasalig naman sang Malacañang nga ang kasim (shoulder) kag ang pigue (leg) mahimo man magnubo sa P350 tubtub sa P360 per kilo sa Marso 10, sandig sa update nga ginhatag ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco P.
Base pa sa tiglikom, ginalauman nga ang liempo (belly) magatupa sa P380 per kilo.
Una na ginsiling nga amat-amat lang ang pag-implementar sang MSRP nga ginalantaw maga-umpisa sa Marso 10.
Base man sa report sang Philippine Statistics Authority, ang karne sang baboy amo ang highest contributor sa inflation rate sang Pebrero nga nagtupa sa 2.1%.
Pangunahan sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) ang business mission sang Pilipinas sa United States (US) agud buligan nga mapapag-on ang posisyon sang pungsod bilang quality provider sang healthcare information management services.
Ini agud nga makapangita kag makapasangkad pa sang dugang nga market.
Sa statement sang ahensya, ginsiling nga magapartisipar ini sa Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) Global Health Conference and Exhibition sa Las Vegas, Nevada subong nga semana.
May ginpahamtang nga pavilion sa conference para sa Pilipinas agud mapakita ang healthcare expertise sang pungsod.
Dugang sang ahensya, tuyo sang gobyerno nga mapadayaw ang highly skilled kag professional workforce, competitive cost structure, adherence sa global standards, kag mapag-on nga government support agud mas makaengganyo sang potensyal nga mga investors.
DOE, nagpanugyan sa publiko nga mag-conserve sang kuryente subong nga dry season
Nagpahanumdom ang Department of Energy (DOE) sa publiko nga i-conserve ang konsumo sang kuryente bangud nagasugod na ang dry season sa pungsod.
Ginpahayag sang ahensya nga likawan ukon i-reschedule ang mga aktibidad nga nagakonsumo sang kuryente sa peak hours, halin alas 11 sang aga tubtob alas 9 sang hapon sa weekends kag halin alas 6 sang hapon.
Suno sa DOE, sa sini nga mga tion, ang konsumo sang kuryente yara sa pinakamataas, gani ang pagbalhin sang mga hilikuton nga nagakonsumo sang kuryente makabulig sa pagbuhin sang kabudlayan sa grid kag malikawan ang power shutdown.
Suno kay Energy Secretary Rapahel Lotilla, sa tion sang tig-ilinit, mas mataas ang demand sa kuryente, nga masami bangud sa paggamit sang mga cooling appliances pareho sang air conditioner, electric fan, kag refrigerator, nga mahimo mag-strain sa power grid, nga posible magdul-ong sa mga problema sa suplay kag pagbag-obag-o sang presyo sa spot market.
Mga vendors sa Iloilo City, indi makapatuman sang P49 nga MSRP sa imported rice
ILOILO CITY – Wala pa nagpatuman ang mga rice retailers sa Iloilo City sang P49 kada kilogram nga maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) sa mga imported nga bugas.
Ini ang una nga tion nga mapanubuan sa P50 ang MSRP sang imported rice santo man sa mando sang Department of Agriculture.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay alyas Bing-Bing, manugbaligya sang bugas sa La Paz Public Market, iya ginpahayag nga indio pa sila mahimo makapatuman sang P49 nga presyo sa kada kilo sang bugas bangud mapyerde sila.
Suno sa natungdan, mahal man ang presyo sang ila ginabaklan sang supply sang bugas.
Ang mahimo lang nila suno sa natungdan amo nga maghatag sang P20 nga discount sa 25 kilograms nga sako sang bugas.
Sa subong, nagadangat sa P60 ang kilogram sang imported nga bugas, P58 ang premium kag P55 naman ang pinakabarato.
Ginpaathag sang natungdan nga kun magpabarato sila sang bugas, wala sila sang inugbayad sa renta, plastic kag arkabala.
Ipatuman na bwas, Marso 4, ang rollback sa presyo sang gatong.
Gasoline – maganubo sang ₱0.90 per liter Diesel – maganubo sang ₱0.80 per liter kag Kerosene – maganubo sang ₱1.40 per liter
Quinta Comm, ginaduso ang SRP implementation para sa manok, karne sang baboy, isda, kag ulutanon
Ginpasalig sang House Murang Pagkain Supercommittee (Quinta Comm) nga ginapadasig pa gid sini ang pagpaninguha para nga mapanubo ang presyo sang mga pagkaon.
Ginduso man sang panel ang implementasyon sang suggested retail price (SRP) formula para sa bugas, manok, karne sang baboy, isda kag mangin sa ulutanon.
Ang isa sa chairpersons sang Quinta Comm nga si Rep.
Mark Enverga ang nagsiling nga dapat i-require sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) ang SRP formula para nga mabutang sang importers ang SRP sa packaging sa bugas, samtang maga-assess naman ang Bureau of Customs sang taripa base sa nadeklarar nga purchase costs, wholesale prices, kag SRP.
Erwin Tulfo nga kun may SRP ang Department of Agriculture sa essential food items, matapna ang pagsinaka sa presyo bangud indi ini ma-manipula.
Kun mag-stabilize na ang presyo suno sa iya, diri kag mahimo na mabawi sang DA ang SRP implementation.
Sa ginpatigayon nga hearings sa Quinta Comm sa Kamara kaangot sa nagapanglakaak nga presyo, ginbulgar nga ang mga middlemen kag cartel operators ang nagadikta sa presyo sang basic food supplies ilabi na sa bugas.
DTI, nagmando sa mga online sellers nga magparehistro sa ahensya
Nagpagwa sang bag-o nga mando ang Department of Trade and Industry nga nagarequire sa online sellers sang mga household appliances, electronics kag iban pa nga mga consumer goods nga magparehistro sa ahensya.
Sa idalom sang Department Administrative Order (DAO) 25-02 nga gin-aprubahan sang Pebrero 21, ang DTI nagsiling nga ang mga online merchants kag e-retailers nga nagabaligya sang mga produkto sang mga konsumidor nga napaidalom sa mandatory certification gikan sa Bureau of Philippine Standards (BPS), dapat magkumpleto sang isa ka beses nga pagparehistro paagi sa online portal sang bureau.
Ang mga produkto nga subject sa mandatory certification amo ang mga kinahanglan nga may marka sang Philippine Standard (PS) ukon Import Commodity Clearance (ICC) antes ibaligya sa merkado agud masiguro nga ini nagasanto sa nagakaigo nga mga pagsulundan sang kalidad kag safety standards.
Marcos, ginmandu ang mas mabaskog nga biosecurity measures para matapna ang ASF
ang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga padasigon ang livestock consolidation kag pabaskugon ang biosecurity measures agud dalayon nga matapna ang African swine fever (ASF).
Suno sa presidente, importante ang biosecurity magluwas pa gid sa ginahimo subong nga pagpangbakuna batok sa ASF.
Ginsiling naman ni DA Undersecretary Designate for Livestock Constante Palabrica nga naga-implementar na ang ahensya sang biosecurity kag ginpahibalo na ang mga manguguma kun paano ini himuon.
Ginsiguro man sa presidente nga 80% sang mga baboy ang protektado gid kun makabaton na sang bakuna.
Base sa timeline sang DA, ginalauman nga makakuha na sang approval para sa commercial vaccination batok sa ASF sa Abril.
Ini nga commercial vaccination ang nagatuyo nga mapadasig ang pagbangon sang local hog industry sa epekto sang ASF ilabi na ang nag-igu sa third kag last quarter sang 2024.
Nahibaluan nga at least 490,000 doses sang ASF AVAC live vaccines ang gina-target nga matublok sa idalom sang government-controlled vaccination.
February inflation, ginalantaw nga magtupa sa 2.2%-3% —BSP
Ginalantaw sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) nga mangin steady lang ang inflation rate sa Pebrero, ukon mas manubo pa ipaanggid sa 2.9% nga na-rekord sang Enero.
Suno sa central bank, gina-forecast nga magtupa sa 2.2 percent – 3 percent ang inflation rate sa ikaduha nga bulan sa tuig.
Ginalapanan-aw nga magaapekto sa pagsaka sang inflation ang mas mataas man nga electricity rates kag oil prices, kag pagsaka sa presyo sang nagapanguna nga agricultural commodities kaangay sang isda kag karne.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang makapanubo naman diri amo ang nagnubo nga presyo sang bugas, prutas, ulutanon, kag ang negative base effects.
Nahibaluan nga ang target sang gobyerno nga inflation rate amo ang 2-4 percent.
Kun balikan ang December 2024 BSP Survey of External Forecasters, ginsiling sang 24 economists nga gin-survey nga sa first quarter subong nga tuig, magatupa ang inflation rate sa average nga 2.6 percent kag makalab-ot naman sa 2.9 percent sa second quarter nga pareho nga sulod sa target sang gobyerno.
May pagnubo sa presyo sang liquefied petroleum gas ukon LPG epektibo subong nga Marso 1.
Suno sa Petron, gin-implementar sini ang P1.20 rollback per kilo sa LPG prices umpisa 12:01 kaina sang kaagahon.
Sa bahin sang Solane, ginbuhinan man sini ang presyo sang P1.19 per kilo sugod 6:00 subong nga aga.
Maayo man nga balita para sa mga motorista bangud may rollback man sa oil prices nga ipatuman sa Martes sang aga.
Gasoline – maganubo sang P0.80 tubtob 1.20 per liter; Diesel – maganubo sang 0.70 tubtob 1.20 per liter; kag Kerosene – maganubo sang 1.30 tubtob 1.50 per liter
Ang ginalantaw nga mga rason sa rollback sa presyo amo ang pagbuhin sang South Korean government sang tax benefits sa gasoline kag diesel nga nag-apekto sa oil prices kag demand.
Lakip man diri ang imposition sang Estados Unidos sang taripa sa Canadian imports nga amo ang nag-temper sang demand, kag gindugangan man sang impormasyon sang posible nga peace deal sa tunga sang Russia kag Ukraine nga mahimo mag-resulta sa pag-lift sang sanctions batok sa Moscow.
Nahibaluan nga ang Russia amo ang pangatlo sa pinakadaku nga oil producer kasunod sa U.S.
Presyo sang Gasoline kag Diesel, may rollback sa masunod nga semana
May rollback sa presyo sang gatong sa una nga semana sang Marso.
Gasoline – maganubo sang P0.80 tubtob ₱1.20 per liter Diesel – maganubo sang ₱0.70 tubtob ₱1.20 per liter kag Kerosene – maganubo sang ₱1.30 tubtob ₱1.50 per liter.
Nahibaluan nga subong nga semana, nagsaka ang presyo sang gatong.
Sibuyas nga gin-import sang Pilipinas, available na sa mga merkado —DA
Available na sa merkado ang imported nga pula nga sibuyas.
matapos nag-abot na sa Pilipinas ang at least 500 metric tons sang amo nga produkto nga ginbakal halin sa luwas sang pungsod.
Kabahin ini sang 4,000 MT sang imported onions nga aprubado sang Department of Agriculture nga ginalakipan sang 3,000 MT nga pula kag 1,000 MT nga puti nga bombay.
Bangud sa pag-abot sini, ginalauman sang ahensya nga maga-us-os sa P80 tubtub sa P100 per kilo ang baligyaanay sang red onions sa mga merkado.
“PHP80 to PHP100, masaya tayo diyan, compared doon sa nakikita nating PHP180 to PHP200.
So, makita natin na these prices talaga, okay,” suno kay DA spokesperson Assistant Secretary Arnel De Mesa.
Matandaan nga may mga grupo nga nagreklamo sa tikang sang DA, apang nagdepensa ang ahensya nga kinahanglanon gid ang importasyon para mapunggan nga magsaka pa ang retail prices.
Ang ginakahangaw-an naman sang farmers’ groups amo nga magnubo ang farmgate prices sang onions sa tunga sang harvest season.
DA, magabulig sa local farmers nga apektado sang oversupply sang kamatis
Nagpanawagan ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa local tomato farmers nga magpakig-angot sa ila para nga mabuligan sila nga mabaligya sang maayo ang ila produkto sa tunga sang reports nga may nagakatabo nga oversupply.
Base sa report sang agricultural group nga SINAG, ang farmgate prices sang kamatis sa pila ka areas sang Nueva Ecija ang nagsarurot sa P4 kada kilo.
Sa Bongabon sa amo nga probinsya, ginapanghatag na lang ang iban sini bangud sa tuman ka damo nga suplay.
May yara man nga 22-kilos sang kamatis nga ginabaligya na lang sa presyo nga P100.
Suno kay DA spokesperson Assistant Secretary Arnel de Mesa, makahatag ang ahensya sa local farmers sang market access sa rasonable nga presyo.
Ginsiling sini nga mahimo makapalapit ang mga mangunguma sa municipal agriculturists ukon sa DA regional field offices para nga mabuligan sila nga mabaligya ang produkto sa malapit nga mercado ukon sa Kadiwa stores.
“Tutulungan namin sila kung saan pwedeng i-market sa malapit na palengke o sa ating Kadiwa sa mga regions,” pahayag sang opisyal.
Nagpanawagan man ini sa traders nga likawan nga hingalitan ang sitwasyon sang local farmers subong.
Gindugang man sini nga kinahanglan gid man ang cold storage facilities para ma-address ang naganubo nga farmgate kag retail prices bangud seasonal ang pila sa agricultural commodities kaangay sang kamatis kag bombay.
MSRP sa imported rice, panubuon pa sa P48 kada kilo umpisa sa Marso 1 — DA
Panubuon pa gid sang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa P48 kada kilo ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) para sa imported rice umpisa sa Sabado, Marso 1.
Ini ang una nga bes nga mas manubo ini sa P50 kada kilo.
Apang suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., indi ini pag-iimplementar sa bilog nga Pilipinas kundi sa Metro Manila lamang sa kag pili nga urban centers.
Ini bangud suno sa tiglikom, nakitaan na sang pagnubo sa presyo sa pila ka mga probinsya kag wala na nagakinahanglan sang MSRP.
Matandaan nga sa una nga implementasyon, ginhimo nga P58 per kilo ang MSRP sang Enero 20; P55 per kilo umpisa sang Pebrero 5; kag P52 per kilo sang Pebrero 15.
Magapadayon sa pag-review ang DA sa presyo sa masunod nga mga inadlaw agud nga matumod kun kinahanglan pa gid nga panubuon ang presyo.
Gin-abi-abi naman sang agricultural group nga SINAG ang tikang sang DA ilabi na bangud ang target nga makit-an sang grupo nga ideal price amo ang P40-45/kilo.
NGCP, indi makahatag sang garantiya nga wala sang brownout nga matabo sa summer
Ginsiling ini sang National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP) apisar sang nauna nga pasalig sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga sandig sa forecast, wala sang yellow ukon red alert sa masunod nga mga binulan.
Suno kay Engineer Vincent Harvey Bernabe, ang operations manager sang NGCP central grid, kun basehan ang natabo sang nagligad nga tuig, madamo sang beses nga may unscheduled kag unannounced shutdowns sa mga planta rason nga may yellow kag red alerts.
Base sa una nga statement sang DOE, may masobra sa 4,000 megawatts sang new generation nga maga-boost sang supply antes ang summer season.
Suno naman sang power grid operator, wala sang makapakot kun maka-eksperyensya ang mga planta sang emergency shutdowns kaangay sang natabo sang naglinigad nga mga tinuig.
“Meron tayong mga unplanned forced outages, so ineexpect natin na during summer nandyan sya, pero come summer di na sya available,” suno kay Bernabe.
Para naman sa May 2025 national and local elections, nagapreparar naman ang NGCP sang contingency measures para sa ila nga power transmission operations.
Gintukod ang Energy Task Force Election (ETFE) nga ginapangunahan sang Department of Energy (DOE) nga amo ang nagapatigayon sang regular meetings para maistoryahan ang updates sa energy sector kaangot sa eleksyon.
Pilipinas, nakahimo sang record nga ₱1.9 trillion nga investments sang 2024
Nakalab-ot sang record-high nga ₱1.9 trillion sang 2024 ang investments para sa mga proyekto nga gin-aprubahan sang leading investment promotion agencies (IPAs) sang Pilipinas.
Ini nagapakita sang estado sang Pilipinas bilang rising investment destination.
Ang total registered investments sang 2024 ang naglapaw sa 2023 figures sang kapin sa 29 percent, kun sa diin ang domestic investments ang nagpanglakaak sa ₱1.35 trillion halin sa ₱578 billion.
Samtang ang foreign investments naman ang yara sa ₱544 billion ukon kapin 29 percent sang kabilugan.
Suno sa iya, ang investment and economic policies sang Marcos administration ang nagbunga sang sini nga maayo nga mga resulta.
Sa sini nga mga investments, ginalauman nga maka-generate ini sang ginabanta 130,000 jobs.
Maharlika Investment Corp, magahatag sang $76.4 million (P4.425 billion) nga loan para sa gold and copper mining project sa Kalinga
Magahatag ang Maharlika Investment Corp sang $76.4 million ukon P4.425 billion nga loan sa isa ka gold and copper mining project sa probinsya sang Kalinga.
Suno sa sovereign wealth fund sang Pilipinas nga Maharlika, nagpirma na sila sang binding term sheet para sa isa ka loan sa Makilala Mining Company, Inc.
(Makilala Mining) agud umpisahan ang temprano nga development works para sa Maalinao-Caigutan-Biyog Copper-Gold Project (MCB Project) sa probinsya sang Cordillera.
Ang loan magapondo sang isa ka feasibility study, pagtukod sang dalan, kag paghanas para sa mga katapo sang Balatoc Indigenous Cultural Community.
Ang kwarta magatugot man sa Makilala Mining nga malab-ot ang mga kinahanglanon sa pinansyal nga ikasarang sa idalum sang Mineral Production Sharing Agreement sa Gobyerno sang Pilipinas,.
Ginpahayag man sang Maharlika Investment Corp (MIC) nga ang ila suporta sa proyekto nag-agi sa isa ka due diligence review sang iya teknikal, pinansyal, legal, environmental, kag socioeconomic nga aspeto.
Ang Presidente kag CEO sang MIC nga si Rafael D.
nagsiling nga ang proyekto sa pagmina nagasanto sa ila mandato sa pagduso sang pag-uswag sang ekonomiya.
Ang MIC nagsiling nga ang loan iga-disburse, nga may una nga $10 million nga gintigana para sa gilayon nga pagsugod sang proyekto.
Ang kasugtanan nagalakip man sang mga probisyon nga nagapasiguro sang pagbantay kag partisipasyon sang MIC sa mga key project management decisions, suno sa sovereign wealth fund.
Nagapadayon man ang mga paghambalanay nahanungod sa dugang nga pondo para sa MCB Project.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang MIC nga naga-invest man ini sa power grid operator sang pungsod.
Ang sovereign wealth fund nakakuha sang una nga pondo gikan sa duha ka pinakadaku nga ginapanag-iyahan sang estado nga mga bangko sang pungsod, nga suno sa International Monetary Fund kinahanglan na karon nga i-recapitalize.
Oil price hike, ginpatuman na subong nga adlaw
Nagsaka na naman ang presyo sang gatong subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 25.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero, ang saka sa presyo sang gatong amo ang mga masunod:
Gasoline: magataas sang P0.70 kada litro Diesel: magataas sang P0.40 kada litro Kerosene: magataas sang P0.20 kada litro
Ang oil price hike ang kasunod sang ginpatuman nga bigtime oil price hike.
DA, magapatigayon sang inspeksyon sa tanan nga onion warehouses
Magahimo sang inspeksyon ang Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) sa onion warehouses sa bilog nga pungsod subong nga semana bangud sa ginasuspetsahan nga hoarding kag price manipulation sini nga peak harvest season.
Suno sa Department of Agriculture (DA), ginmanduan sini ang BPI nga bisitahon kag lantawon ang onion cold storage facilities para mahibaluan kun ginatago didto ang bag-o na-harvest nga mga bombay sa baylo nga ibaligya.
Pahayag pa ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., kun mahibaluan sang DA nga ginapangtago ang bombay sa warehouses, nagapatimaan ini sang hoarding kag pat-od nga magasaka na naman ang presyo bangud ipaguwa nila nga kulang ang mga suplay.
Ginalauman nga matapos ang inspeksyon sa sulod sang apat tubtub pito ka adlaw.
As of February 20, base sa monitoring sang DA, ang local red onions sa Metro Manila markets ang nagatupa sa P140 tubtub sa P240 per kilogram, samtang ang local white onions naman ang yara sa P90 tubtub sa P150 per kilogram.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang imported white onions ginabaligya sa presyo nga P100 tubtub sa P160 per kilogram.
Magasaka na naman ang presyo sang gatong bwas, Pebrero 25.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero, ang pagsaka sa presyo sang gatong amo ang mga masunod:
Wala na ang Pilipinas sa mga pungsod nga ginabantayan sang international body for money laundering and countering financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) halos apat ka tuig matapos nga nalakip ang pungsod sa ginatawag nga anti-dirty money “grey list.”
Sa isa ka pahayag nga ginpaguwa, kasunod sang tatlo ka adlaw nga Plenary (Pebrero 19-21), ang Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF) nag-anunsyo nga ang Pilipinas wala na sa idalom sang dugang nga monitoring.
Kon ang Financial Action Task Force nagabutang sang isa ka pungsod sa idalom sang “grey list” ukon dugang nga pagbantay, nagakahulugan ini nga ang isa ka pungsod nagkomiter sa pagresolba sang nakilala nga mga strategic deficiencies sa sulod sang ginkasugtan nga timeframes kag napaidalom sa dugang nga monitoring.
DA, gin-aprubahan ang pag-import sang 25,000 MT sang frozen fish products
Aprubado na sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang importasyon sang 25,000 metriko tonelada sang nagkalain-lain nga frozen fish products.
12, nalakip sa iga-import halin sa Marso tubtub sa Mayo 2025 amo ang marlin, salmon, oyster, sardines, scallops, lobster kag octopus.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel, Jr., tuyo sini nga mapunggan ang pagpanglakaak sang presyo kag masiguro ang pangkabug-usan nga food security sa Pilipinas.
Pahayag pa sang tiglikom, makadugang pa ini sa variety sa mercado ilabi na sa food service industry bangud ang mga isda kag marine species nga sakop sini nga importasyon amo ang mga sahi nga indi mahulik diri sa pungsod.
Ang iban pa gid nga nalakip sa aprubado nga importasyon amo ang Alaskan pollock, barramundi, bluefin tuna, capelin, Chilean sea bass, clams, cobia, cod, croaker, eel, emperor, fish meat, flounder, gindara, grouper, hake, halibut, hamachi, kag hoki.
Sa bahin naman sang volume allocation, ang kada eligible importer ang pagahatagan sang initial allocation nga 28 MT; samtang ang nabilin naman nga volume ang igapain sa “first come, first served basis.”
Ginsigurado man sang tiglikom nga wala ini sang epekto sa local fish industry.
Poultry importation halin sa 4 US states, ginpauntat anay sang Pilipinas
Temporaryo nga ginpauntat sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pag-import sang poultry halin sa apat ka states sa Estados Unidos sang Amerika agud mapunggan ang pagsulod kag paglapta sang bird flu sa Pilipinas.
11, nalakip sa import ban ang domestic kag wild birds kag ila nga mga produkto, poultry meat, day-old chicks, eggs kag semen halin sa Illinois, Minnesota, Ohio kag Wisconsin.
Ini nga memo ang kasunod sang mga outbreak sang highly pathogenic avian influenza nga na-report sa US sang nagligad lamang nga Pebrero 3.
Bangud sa mandu ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., awtomatiko nga suspendido ang pag-proseso, pag-evaluate, kag pag-isyu sang sanitary and phytosanitary import clearance para sa nasambit nga mga produkto.
Antes sini, na-lift na kuntani sang DA ang import ban sa poultry products sa Ohio sang Hunyo 2024 kag Minnesota sang Nobyembre sang amo man nga tuig.
Nahibaluan nga isa ang US sa major suppliers sang meat products sa Pilipinas.
Ginauyatan sini ang export market share nga 15.2 percent sang 2024.
Isda nga tuloy, mahimo na ma-export — DA
Gin-anunsyo sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga mahimo na ma-export ang isda nga tuloy matapos nalakip sa international food standards for fish and fishery products sang Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC).
Ini nga komisyon ang gin-establisar sang Food and Agriculture Organization kag World Health Organization agud nga mag-set sang global food safety standards para nga maproteksyunan ang mga consumer kag masiguro ang patas nga trade practices.
Kasunod sini nga development, nagpahayag si Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
nga makadugang ini sang bag-o nga investments sa sector sang pagpangisda kag makahatag man sang palangabuhian sa mga Pilipino.
Ginaabisuhan ang mga magabyahe para sa mas mahal nga airfares sa masunod nga bulan matapos ginpataas sang Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) ang fuel surcharge level para sa domestic kag international flights.
Sa advisory sang Board, ang passenger kag cargo fuel surcharge para sa domestic kag international flights ang i-set sa Level 5 para sa bilog nga Marso, nga mas mataas sa ginapatuman subong nga Level 4.
Sa idalom sang Level 5, ang mga pasahero magabayad sang ₱151 tubtob ₱542 sa fuel surcharges para sa domestic flights, depende sa distansya.
Para sa international flights, ang surcharge ang yara sa ₱498.03 tubtob ₱3,703.11.
Sa idalom sang Level 4, ang airlines makakolekta sang additional fuel fee para sa domestic flights nga ₱117 tubtob ₱342 para sa domestic flights, depende sa kalayuon.
Samtang ang surcharge para sa international flights ang naga-range halin sa ₱385.70 tubtob sa ₱2,867.82.
Ang fuel surcharge isa ka optional fee, nga wala nalakip sa base airfare, nga ginapasa sang mga airlines sa mga pasahero agud kuhaon diri ang dugang nga balayran gikan sa nagabag-o bag-og nga presyo sang jet fuel.
Ginpatuman na subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 18, ang oil price hike.
Base sa oil industry sources, yari ang pagtaas sa presyo sang gatong:
sa Gasoline, magataas sang P0.80 kada litro sa Diesel, magataas sang P0.80 kada litro.
sa Kerosene, magataas sang P0.10 kada litro
Ipatuman na bwas, Pebrero 18, ang oil price hike.
sa Kerosene, magataas sang P0.10 kada litro.
PAOCC, nagalaum nga madula tanan nga POGO sa Pilipinas sa 2025
Nagalaum ang Presidential Anti-Organized Crime Commission (PAOCC) nga madula ang tanan nga iligal nga Philippine Offshore Gaming Operators (POGOs) sa tuig 2025.
Ginpahayag ni PAOCC Executive Director, Undersecretary Gilbert Cruz nga masobra lang sa isa ka gatos ka mga POGO ang naga-operate sa small-scale sa pungsod matapos ang pagdeklarar sang total ban ni President Ferdinand R.
Halin sa dalagku nga POGO hubs suno kay Cruz, kalabanan sini nga mga operator ang naganegosyo na sa mga apartment, condominium, lakip na halin sa ila mga hulot sa mga hotel ukon resort.
Una na nga gin-rescue sang PAOCC ang 34 ka mga Indonesians sa gina-alegar POGO hub sa Pasay kag nadakpan ang isa ka Chinese woman nga si Liu Meng, duha ka wala makilala nga Chinese nationals, kag isa ka Malaysian.
Marcos, nagpanawagan sa mga Pinoy nga hingalitan ang gov’t job fairs agud maka-obra
Nagpanawagan si President Ferdinand “Bongbong” Marcos, Jr.
sa mga Pinoy nga hingalitan ang job fairs nga gina-organisar sang gobyerno paagi sa “Trabaho sa Bagong Pilipinas” initiative nga iya sang administrasyon.
Sa job fair para sa mga benepisyaryo sang Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program (4Ps) sa Tagum City, Davao del Norte, ginpahayag sang presidente nga dapat nga kuhaon na lang nga oportunidad nga yara na subong sa ila atubang agud maka-trabaho kag mangin produktibo.
Kakambal nito ay ang aking panawagan na sana po ay mapalawig pa ninyo ang mga pagkakataon at oportunidad na nasa inyong harapan,” pahayag sini.
”Naniniwala ako na ang bawat isa sa inyo ay may kakayahan at determinasyon upang gawing produktibo ang inyong pamumuhay.”
Gin-report man sini nga sang ginlunsar ini nga inisyatibo sang Enero, masobra sa 9,000 ka mga indibidwal ang nag-apply sa trabaho kag 1,028 ang na-hire on the spot.
Magluwas diri suno kay Marcos, nagabulig gid ini sa job seekers nga mapasulod sila sa trabaho nga santo sa ila tinapusan sa pagtuon para nga mag-angot man sa ila talento kag ikasarang.
Nahibaluan nga tuyo sang “Trabaho sa Bagong Pilipinas” program nga mapasulod sa trabaho ang mga miyembro sang 4Ps.
4.4-million household beneficiaries ang target nga mabuligan sang gobyerno subong nga tuig.
Approved foreign investments sang Pilipinas, nagnubo sang 38.9% ukon P543.62 billion; pinakamataas nga pagnubo sa sulod sang apat ka tuig
Nagnubo sang 38.9% ang approved foreign investments sa Pilipinas sang nagligad nga tuig sa P543.62 billion, pinakamataas nga pagnubo sa sulod sang apat ka tuig.
Ang una nga datos gikan sa Philippine Statistics Authority nagapakita nga ang balor sang foreign commitments nga gin-aprubahan sang mga ahensya sa investment promotion agencies (IPAs) sang pungsod sang 2024 mas manubo sa P889.24 billion sang 2023.
Ginakabig nga ang tuigan nga pagnubo sang mga foreign investments amo ang pinaka-lowest halin sa 71.3% nga pagnubo nga narekord sang 2020.
Sa tatlo ka bulan tubtob Disyembre, ang mga pledges naglab-ot sa P57.70 billion, nga nagnubo sang 85.4% gikan sa P394.46 billion sa amo man nga panahon sang 2023.
Amo ini ang pinakamataas nga pagnubo sa sulod sang 26 ka tuig ukon halin sa 94.5% nga pagnubo sang ikatlo nga quarter sang 1998.
Sa balor, ini ang pinakamanubo halin sang P27.46 billio sa ikatlo nga quarter sang 2023.
Nagdala ini sang gross domestic product (GDP) sang pungsod sa 5.6% sang 2024, sa idalom sang revised nga 6-6.5% nga target sang gobyerno.
Oil price hike, ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
May patigayunon nga oil price hike sa masunod nga semana.
Base sa oil industry sources, yari ang gilauman nga pagtaas sa presyo sang gatong:
Sa Gasoline, magataas sang P0.45-P0.75 kada litro Sa Diesel, magataas sang P0.30-P0.60 kada litro.
Sa Kerosene, magataas sang P0.15-P0.30 kada litro
Ginalauman naman nga i-anunsyo ang pinal nga presyo sang produkton petrolyo sa Lunes, kag ipatuman naman ini sa Martes.
DA, magapatuman sang maximum SRP sa karne sang baboy sa Marso
Ginalantaw nga sa Marso pa ipatuman sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) para sa karne sang baboy.
Santo sa latest monitoring sang ahensya, nagatupa sa P380 tubtub sa P480 per kilo ang presyo sang liempo samtang yara naman sa P350 tubtub sa P420 ang presyo sang kada kilo sang kasim ukon pork ham.
ang retailers kun ngaa mataas gihapon ang presyo.
Paathag nila, may ahente pa sila nga kinahanglan bayaran, gasolina, mga tawo, kag pag-ihaw magluwas pa sa farmgate price.
Suno kay Laurel, tun-an sang maayo ang value chain para nga maanalisar gid sang DA.
Nagatipon pa subong ang ahensya sang dugang nga impormasyon apang suno sa tiglikom, sigurado nga dayunon nila ang implementasyon sang maximum suggested retail price.
Ginalauman nga makumpleto ang ila nga data-gathering antes magtakop ang Pebrero.
Una naman nga ginpasalig sang DA nga bisan mataas ang presyo sang karne sang baboy, bastante ang suplay sini diri sa Pilipinas.
Queenbank, magapatigayon sang ika-43 nga tuig nga Top Level Management Conference (TLMC)
Magapatigayon ang Queen City Development Bank (Queenbank) sang sa ika-43 sini nga tuig nga Top Level Management Conference (TLMC) umpisa subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 12 tubtob 14 sa Dr.
Magapanguna sa tatlo ka adlaw nga seminar ang presidente sang Queenbank nga si Ms.
Javellana, kag ang Assistant Vice President nga si Ms.
Ini nga conference ang magatanyag sang indi-kinaandan nga oportunidad para sa masangkad nga diskusyon sa timely kag importante nga mga isyu nga ginapangatubang sang branch officers sa mainuswagon nga market economies.
Ang tema subong nga tuig amo ang “Creating Customer Connections – Meeting the Challenge.” Ginapakita sini ang dedikasyon sang Queenbank sa pagpaayo pa sang customer relations, bank regulation, supervision, kag practices nga nagatuyo nga mapa-uswag pa ang mga produkto kag serbisyo sa mga kliyente.
Lakip sa nagapanguna nga ginatanyag sini amo ang Mobile Banking, PESONet, QR.Ph, PhilPass Remittance, Western Union, Bayad Center, kag madamo nga iban pa.
Sang Enero 5, 2025, gin-inagurahan sang Queenbank ang pinakabag-o sini nga branch sa Barangay Ilawod, Zarraga, Iloilo.
Sang amo man nga bulan, ginsaylo ang Queenbank Plazuela Uno sa Plazuela Dos kag subong naga-atubang na sa Diversion Road.
Sa bulig sang contemporary design kag mas ginpaayo pa nga lokasyon, mas accessible na subong ang Queenbank Plazuela Dos sa existing kag prospecting clients.
Sang tuig 2024, gin-demonstrar man sang Queenbank ang importante nga mga pag-uswag sa deposit liabilities nga naga-reflect sang pagsalig sang publiko sa reputasyon sini nga madugay na nga naestablisar.
Nagapakita man ini sang mabakod nga capital position kag mabaskog nga portfolio base.
Naka-record ang bangko sang gross revenue nga Php 212-milion kag kabug-usan nga assets nga nagalab-ot sa halos Php 4-billion nga nagapakita sang padayon nga exemplary growth.
Dugang diri, ginapabilin man sang Queenbank ang tuman ka estable nga capital base nga nagapakita man sang financial strength sini.
Samtang nga ginapreparahan ang palaabuton, mas dugangan pa sang Queenbank ang digital transformation kag innovation kag pasangkaron pa gid ang pagtanyag sang mga serbisyo kag customer experience.
Ini nga progresibo nga approach amo ang naga-posisyon sa Queenbank nga magpadayon sa tunga sang nagabag-o nga financial landscape samtang nga ginapabilin ang commitment sini sa excellence kag customer satisfaction.
10 centavos nga rollback, epektibo na subong nga adlaw
Epektibo na subong nga adlaw, Pebrero 11, ang oil price rollback.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero, matapos ang oil price adjustment sang nagligad nga semana, ginpatuman naman sa subong nga adlaw ang senintimos nga rollback sa presyo sang gatong.
Yari ang ginpatuman nga oil price rollback:
Gasoline – maganubo sang 0.10 centavos per liter Diesel – maganubo sang 0.10 centavos per liter Kerosene – maganubo sang 0.30 centavos per liter
Diesel kag Gasoline, may 10 centavos nga rollback
Ipatuman na bwas ang oil price rollback.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero, matapos ang oil price adjustment sang nagligad nga semana, ipatuman naman sa bwas, Pebrero 11 ang senintimos nga rollback sa presyo sang gatong.
Yari ang ipatuman nga oil price rollback:
Samtang naga-amat-amat na sako ang gift shopping para sa Valentine’s Day, nagpaandam ang toxics watchdog nga EcoWaste Coalition batok sa pagbakal sang perfumes nga nagaunod sang ginadumilian nga toxic chemicals.
Kasunod ini sang market surveillance sang grupo kun sa diin ginpahayag nga may nakit-an sila nga 35 perfume products halin sa 16 brand nga may yara sang ingredient nga butylphenyl methylpropional (BMHCA) ukon kilala man nga lilial ukon lysmeral.
Suno sa watchdog, ang pagbaligya sini nga produkto ang nagalapas sa Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Circular No.
2023-007 nga amo ang naga-ban sa amo nga chemical sa cosmetics.
Delikado ini suno sa grupo bangud mahalitan sini ang reproductive process ilabi na ang lapsag nga yara sa taguangkan sang isa ka iloy.
Base pa sa EcoWaste Coalition, sa ila test buys, natukiban nga ang banned perfumes ang ginabaligya sa balor nga P75 to P300 sa major shopping hubs sa Makati, Manila, kag Quezon City.
Ini nga mga produkto ang ginabug-usan sang eau de parfum, eau de toilette, fragrance lotion, fragrance mist, kag body mist kag nagaguwa nga mga imitation items lamang.
Gin-report na ang findings sa FDA kag nagpanawagan man sa otoridad nga maghulag na batok sa importers, distributors, kag retailers sini nga banned products.
Agri group, nagwangal sa pag-apruba sang DA sa pag-import sang bombay
Ginapamatukan sang grupo sang mga mangunguma ang ginhimo sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga pag-apruba sang panibag-o nga importasyon sang linibo ka metriko tonelada sang puti kag pula nga bombay.
Suno kay Jayson Cainglet, executive director sang Samahang Industriya ng Agrikultura (SINAG), indi ini ang tion para nga mag-import sang amo nga produkto.
Ginklaro sini nga wala sila nagabalabag sa importasyon, apang dapat kuntani nga himuon ini pagkatapos sang ani kaangay sang bulan sang Hulyo, Agusto, kag Septyembre.
Pahayag sini, kun ginasiling sang DA nga maga-abot na sa masunod nga duha ka semana ang imports, peak harvest man ini sa Pilipinas gani maga-dungan ang suplay.
Ginpahayag sini nga na-atrasar lang ang harvest subong nga tuig bangud sa Bagyo Pepito, apang wala sang ginapanan-aw nga problema sa volume.
Suno pa kay Cainglet, may pila ka mga mangunguma nga temprano pa nga naga-harvest sang ila produkto, bangud sa kahangawa nga mangin tuman ka nubo ang farmgate prices kun mag-inabot na ang bombay nga gin-import.
Una na nga ginpaathag ni DA spokesperson kag Assistant Secretary Arnel De Mesa nga indi man madamo ang iga-import bangud ginkonsiderar man ang peak harvest sa Marso.
Ginalantaw nga magaabot ini sa Pilipinas sa Pebrero 20.
Panigurado ini suno sa tiglikom nga bastante ang buffer stocks sang pungsod samtang ginahulat ang fresh harvest.
Kun matandaan, sang 2022, nagsaka ang presyo sang bombay sa P700 kada kilo bangud sa kakulangan sang suplay nga ginpahayag nga ginpalala pa sang atrasado nga imports.
Base sa data sang Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI), ang monthly consumption sa Pilipinas ang yara sa 17,000 metric tons para sa red onions kag 4,000 metric tons naman para sa puti nga sibuyas.
Oil price rollback, ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
May yara sang oil price rollback sa masunod nga semana.
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero, may senintimos nga rollback sa presyo sang gatong.
Yari ang ginalauman nga oil price rollback:
Gasoline – maganubo sang 0.30 centavos per liter Diesel – maganubo sang 0.20 tubtub 0.50 centavos per liter Kerosene – maganubo sang 0.10 tubtub 0.25 centavos per liter
Ipagwa sa Lunes ang final nga oil price rollback kag ipatuman naman ini sa Martes sang aga.
DA, gin-aprubahan ang pag-import sang 4,000 MT sang pula kag puti nga sibuyas
Aprubado na sang gobyerno sang Pilipinas ang pag-import sang linibo ka metriko tonelada sang red and white onions para nga mapabilin nga estable ang presyo sini sa mga mercado.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., ginalauman nga magaabot sa pungsod ang imports sa masunod nga duha ka semana.
DTI, nagpaguwa sang bag-o nga SRP bulletin; 77 items, nagsaka ang presyo
Nakit-an sa bulletin nga 77 gid sa 191 stock-keeping units (SKUs) ang may pagsaka sa presyo.
Ang saka sa presyo sang sardinas nagtupa sa P0.90 to P2.73 samtang P0.10 tubtub sa P0.50 naman para sa instant noodles.
108 items naman ang wala nag-ilis sang SRP apang talalupangdon ang reklamo sa “shrinkflation” ukon ang pagbuhin sa kadakuon sang produkto apang amo lang gihapon ang presyo.
Una nga ginpahayag sang DTI nga wala na sang pending request para sa SRP adjustment nagikan sa manufacturers sang basic and prime commodities.
DA, magadayon sa pagpatuman sang maximum SRP sa karne sang baboy
Dayunon sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pagpatuman sang maximum suggested retail price (SRP) sa karne sang baboy.
Ini matapos naglab-ot na sa P480 per kilo ang presyo sini sandig sa pinakaulihi nga monitoring sang ahensya.
Suno kay Agriculture Assistant Secretary kag spokesman Arnel de Mesa, wala pa sang nahitso nga petsa kun san-o ini umpisahan, apang pat-od nga iimplementar ini sang agriculture department bangud sobra-sobra ang presyo nga makit-an sa mga mercado.
Base sa monitoring sang DA, ang retail price sang pork shoulder ang yara sa P345 tubtub sa P420 per kilo samtang yara sa P380 tubtub sa P480 per kilo naman sa pork belly.
Tuman ini ka taas ipaanggid sa farmgate price nga P220-P240 kada kilo.
Una na nga gin-report sang DA nga sang third quarter sang 2024, naka-recover na ang hog raisers sa epekto sang pag-igo sang African Swine Fever (ASF).
Numero sang mga Pinoy nga nagnegosyo, record-high sang 2024
Mas madamo nga mga Pinoy ang nagasulod sa negosyo matapos narecord sang Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) ang record-high registrations sang bag-o nga mga kompaniya sang 2024.
Suno sa commission, ang mga registrations para sa bag-o nga mga kompaniya ang naghampak sa all-time high sang nagligad nga tuig sa likod sang innovative kag advanced digital platforms nga padayon nga nagapahapos sa pagnegosyo sa Pilipinas.
Ang commission nagregister sang 52,304 nga bag-o nga companies sang 2024, mas mataas sang six percent sa 49,506 sang 2023.
Ini nagpataas sang total number sang active SEC-registered companies sa 527,710 sa pagtakop sang 2024.
Ang stock corporations ang nagabug-os sang 75 percent, ukon 39,146, sang bag-o nga registered companies; ang non-stock corporations naman ang 21 percent, ukon 10,782; kag ang nabilin nga four percent, ukon 2,376, ang lunsay partnerships.
Samtang, ang bag-o nga registered one-person corporations ang nagtubo sang 27 percent sa 8,640 sang 2024 halin sa 6,794 sang 2023.
NFA, maga-umpisa na sa pagbaligya sang buffer stocks sang bugas sa tunga sang food security emergency
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Mahimo na nga magpagwa ang National Food Authority (NFA) sang buffer stocks sang bugas.
ang food security emergency agud nga masolusyunan ang padayon kag indi kinaandan nga pagsaka sa presyo sang bugas sa mga merkado.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Jasmine Lintag, Regional Manager sang NFA Region 6, iya ginpahayag nga ang mga buffer stocks nga bugas ang mahimo na nga ibaligya sa mga local government units (LGU).
03, ginatugutan na ang pag-release sang stocks nga yara sa NFA agud nga ma-stabilize ang presyo kag masiguro nga masarangan kag accessible para sa mga Pinoy ang bugas.
Suno kay Lintag, sa Western Visayas, lakip sa mga LGU nga nagpabutyag sang interes nga magbakal sang ila buffer stocks amo ang Iloilo City kag Negros Occidental.
Apang kada bulan, may yara lang sang specific nga allocation sang sako sang bugas ang kada LGU sa diin sa Iloilo City, 7,500 lang ang mahimo mabakal kada bulan kag 42,500 naman nga sako sa Negros Occidental.
Ginabaligya sang NFA ang kada kilogram sang bugas sa P33.00 kag mahimo naman ini mabaligya sang mga LGU sa P35.00 kada kilogram.
Ginpasigurado man ang natungdan nga maayo ang kaledad sang ila ibaligya nga bugas.
Nahibaluan nga ginhimo sang Department of Agriculture ang ang food security emergency sa tunga sang “extraordinary” nga pagtaas sang presyo sang local nga bugas, nga nagapadayon sa pihak sang mas manubo nga gastos sa world market kag pagbuhin sa mga taripa.
Magapabilin naman ang food security emergency tubtob magbalik sa mayo ang sitwasyon.
Panawagan para sa P200 wage hike sa private sector, ginkalipay sang labor group
Ginkalipay sang labor group ang pag-apruba sang Kamara sa P200 across the board wage hike sa private sector.
Ini ang gin-aprubahan sa House Committee on Labor and Employment nga ginapangunahan ni Rep.
Fidel Nograles sa diin ini ang substitute bill para sa House Bill 514, 756, 7871 kag 10319 nga lunsay mga hagna agud magpatuman sang saka sa sweldo.
Elmer Forro, Secretary General sang Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN) – Panay, iya ginpahayag nga ang tikang nga ini ang makabulig agud makatibawas ang mga mamumugon sa poverty threshold kag makapulos ang bug-os nga pungsod sa pag-uswag sang ekonomiya.
Nagalaom man si Forro nga mangin urgent ang pag-apruba sang hagna sa 19th Congress.
Nahibaluan nga ang mga magagmay nga negosyo kag mga barangay micro-business enterprises ang hatagan sang exemption agud indi mangin palas-anon ang bag-o nga regulasyon sa ila operasyon.
Ginahingyo man sini sa mga employer nga magbulig agud mapabaskog ang purchasing power sang mga mamumugon agud maghatag sang dako pa nga benta kag mag-uswag ang kada negosyo.
Santo sa P200 Daily Across-the-Board Wage Increase Act, tanan nga employers sa pribado nga sektor, agricultural man ukon indi, anuman kadako ang capitalization kag numero sang empleyado ang kinahanglan nga magbayad sang dugang nga P200 sa mga empleyado.
Nasaad sa hagna nga ang sin-o man nga indibidwal, korporasyon, trust, firm, partnership, association ukon entity nga magalapas ang mahimo multahan sang P50,000 tubtob P100,000 ukon pagkapreso sang duha tubtob apat ka tuig.
Ginamanduan man ang employer nga bayaran ang iya empleyado sang doble sang balor sang wala nabayaran nga benepisyo.
Ang Department of Labor and Employment naman ang magapanguna sa paghimo sang implementing rules and regulations sang layi.
03, ginatugutan na ang pag-release sang stocks nga yara sa National Food Authority (NFA) agud nga ma-stabilize ang presyo kag masiguro nga masarangan kag accessible para sa mga Pinoy ang bugas.
Base pa sa issuance sang ahensya, magapabilin ang food security emergency magluwas lamang kun i-withdraw na ukon bawion na ini sang secretary.
Iga-subject man ini sa pagrepaso sa kada apat ka bulan.
Ginhimo sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang deklarasyon bangud naga-sige sa gihapon sa pagsaka ang presyo bisan pa nga may pagnubo na sa global prices kag bisan pa nga ginbuhinan na ang taripa sa imported nga bugas sang Hulyo 2024.
Halin sa 35 percent, ginpanubo sa 15 percent ang tariff rates sa bugas sang amo nga bulan.
Ginbasehan man sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC) ang data sa Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) kun sa diin naglab-ot ang rice inflation sa 17.9 percent sang September 2023.
Lapaw ini sa upper band sang target sang gobyerno nga 4 percent para sa food inflation.#
Presyo sang Diesel, nagnubo, samtang Gasoline, may price hike
Ginpatuman na subong nga adlaw ang mixed price adjustment sa produktong petrolyo.
Suno sa Department of Energy Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB), dako ang nangin rollback sa Diesel sa diin nagdangat ini sa P1.15 kada litro.
Amo man sa Kerosene nga may ₱0.90 kada litro.
Samtang, nagtaas naman ang presyo sa kada litro sang Gasoline sa ₱0.70 kada litro.
Ginatudlo naman nga rason sang price adjustment amo ang pagtaas sa US oil inventory, pagpamahog ni US President Donald Trump nga pataasan ang taripa kag Chinese New Year holiday.
Gasolina, magataas, Diesel kag Kerosene, may rollback
Ipatuman na bwas, Pebrero 4 ang mixed price adjustment sa produktong petrolyo.
Amo man sa Kerosene nga may ₱0.90 nga buhin sa kada litro.
Samtang, magataas naman ang presyo sa kada litro sang Gasoline sa ₱0.70.
Business groups, naghingyo sa dugang nga pagrepaso sa proposed P200 daily minimum wage hike
Nagpabutyag sang kahangawa ang duha ka dalagku nga business groups kaangot sa ginaduso nga P200 daily minimum wage increase para sa pribado nga sector sa pungsod.
Suno kay Cecilio Pedro, presidente sang Federation of Filipino-Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry, ang mataas nga sweldo magaresulta man sa mataas nga presyo sang mga balaklon nga amo ang mangin palas-anon sang mga consumer.
Naghingyo ini sa National Wages and Productivity Commission nga irepaso gid sang maid-id ang proposal.
Sa pihak nga bahin, si Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PCCI) Chairperson George Barcelon ang may kaangay man nga concern bangud suno sa iya, ang wage increase ang makabuhin sang competitiveness sa pungsod kag mapwersa pa ang mga negosyo nga mangbuhin sang empleyado.
Base sa pahayag ni House Deputy Speaker Rep.
Democrito Raymond Mendoza nga co-author sang measure, ang wage increase ang makabulig sa ginabanta nga 5 million minimum wage workers nga tuman nga nagapamigado.
Philippine Egg Board Association, nagpasalig nga bastante ang supply sang itlog tubtob sa bulan sang Abril kag Mayo
Nagpasalig ang Philippine Egg Board Association (PEBA) nga wala sang nakita nga kakulangan sa suplay sang itlog sa Abril apisar sang mga pagpamahog sang bird flu.
Ginpahayag ni Philippine Egg Board Association president Francis Uyehara nga base sa ila projection, may yara sang bastante nga supply sang itlog ang pungsod tubtob sa bulan sang Abril kag Mayo bangud sa mas maayo nga produksyon.
nga mahimo nga mag-atubang sang supply shortage ang pungsod sa bulan sang Abril, bisan pa nga ang Pilipinas wala pa maka-eksperyensya sang lapnagon nga outbreak sang bird flu.
Apang, ginhatagan niya sang importansya nga may tion pa agud matapna ang gina-project nga kakulangan.
Ginklaro sang opisyal sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga ang deklarasyon sang rice emergency nga natalana subong nga semana ang para lamang sa mga lugar nga may nagapanglakaak nga presyo sa bugas.
Suno kay Agriculture Assistant Secretary Arnel de Mesa, base sa nakasaad sa layi, magapatunga lamang ang ahensya kag ang National Food Authority (NFA) sa areas nga may extraordinary increase ukon indi kinaandan nga pagsaka sa presyo, apang kun manubo man ang presyuhanay, indi na ini kinahanglan i-check.
Ang ginatumod sini nga layi amo ang Republic Act (RA) 12078 nga nagaamyendar sang Rice Tariffication Law.
Ini nga layi ang nagahatag sang otoridad sa tiglikom sang DA nga magdeklarar sang food security emergencies sa areas nga may kakulangan sang food supply ukon may extraordinary price increase nga naobserbahan.
Una naman nga ginkumpirma ni DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
nga nabaton na sini ang pormal nga resolution sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC) kaangot sa ila nga rekomendasyon, kag ginalauman nga Martes sini ideklarar ang food security emergency.
Sa subong, ginahitso pa sang ahensya ang desisyon sa deklarasyon kun ano nga mga lugar ang maapektuhan.
Ginpasalig sini nga ang una nga lantawon amo ang key cities kag metropolitan areas.
Sa idalom sang rice emergency declaration, ang bugas nga stock sang National Food Authority (NFA) amo ang igabaligya sa government agencies kag local government units sa presyo nga P36 per kilogram kag sa consumers sa presyo naman nga P38 per kilogram.
Suplay sang itlog, posible nga magkulang sa Abril
Ginapanan-aw sang Department of Agriculture nga may matabo nga kakulangan sa suplay sang itlog sa Abril.
Suno sa ahensya, madamo nga producers ang nagdesisyon nga untaton ang ila nga operasyon kag pang-ihawon na lamang ang chicken layers sang 2024 bangud sa epekto sang tuman ka nubo nga farmgate price sang natabo ang oversupply.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, nag-us-os sa kuatro pesos kada bilog ang presyo sini gani daku gid ang napierde sa egg producers.
Pahayag ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., bangud gin-ihaw sang local producers ang layers para mabaylo sa cash, nagnubo naman ang populasyon sang nagapangitlog nga nga manok.
Nagalaum ang tiglikom nga indi magsaka ang presyo sang itlog sangsa presyo subong nga yara na sa P8-P9 kada bilog.
Nagpasalig ang ahensya nga may mga ginahimo na ini subong kaangay sang mass rollout sang avian influenza (AI) vaccines bisan nga wala man sang active or positive case sang highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) sa Pilipinas subong.
Ini nga tikang ang ginahimo agud malikawan ang krisis kaangay sa Estados Unidos kun sa diin padayon nga naglapta ang bird flu lakip na rare strain nga H5N9.
Isa pa sa bulig sang DA amo ang pagtanyag sang assistance sa local producers nga gusto mag-import sang bag-o nga layers.
Mahimo ini mapadasig suno sa secretary paagi sa pag-set-up sang meeting sa stakeholders.
Nagpanawagan man ang DA chief sa financial institutions nga suportahan ang local producers paagi sa pautang sa mga katapo sang egg industry agud mabuligan sila nga maka-repopulate.
nga posible nga sa Martes, Pebrero 4, sini ma-deklarar ang food security emergency.
Ini matapos pormal na nga nabaton sang iya opisina ang resolution nga aprubado sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC) nga amo ang naga-rekomendar sang deklarasyon.
Sa bilog nga pungsod ang implementasyon sang sini nga deklarasyon.
Suno kay Laurel, magasapol siya sa mga opisyal sang National Food Authority (NFA), Food Terminal Inc.
kag Kadiwa para mahitso ang mga plano sa rollout.
Pahayag pa sang tiglikom, mahimo mabaligya sang NFA ang ila rice stocks sa presyo nga P36 per kilo sa local government units, kag mahimo naman ini ibaligya sang lokal nga panguluhan sa presyo nga P38 per kilo.
Gindugang sini, kun maka-release ang NFA sang 300,000 tonelada sang bugas sa market sa sulod sang anum ka bulan, mapanubo sini ang retail price sa bugas kag mahatagan pa sang espasyo ang ahensya para sa procurement sang palay.
Ginpasalig man ni Tiu Laurel nga sarang ma-justify sang DA ang legalidad sang food security emergency pananglitan kwestyunon ini sa korte.
Sa idalom sang Republic Act 12078 ukon ang Agricultural Tariffication Act, kun may yara na sang rekomendasyon halin sa price council, mahimo magdeklarar ang Department of Agriculture sang food security emergency agud masolusyunan ang supply shortages ukon ang extraordinary increases sa presyo sa bugas.
Ekonomista, ginakabig nga counterproductive ang ginaduso nga P200 nga saka sa sweldo sa private sector
Ginakabig sang isa ka ekonomista nga counterproductive ang hagna nga nga may katuyuan nga magpatuman sang P200 across the board wage hike sa private sector.
Sa hearing sang House Committee on Labor and Employment nga ginapangunahan ni Rizal 4th District Rep.
Fidel Nograles, ginpasar sang house panel ang substitute bill para sa House Bill 514, 756, 7871 kag 10319 nga lunsay mga hagna agud magpatuman sang saka sa sweldo.
Sa interview sang Bombo Radyo kay Bonnie Ladrido, executive director sang Institute of Contemporary Economics, iya ginpahayag nga manami pamatian ang across the board wage hike, apang sa pagkamatuod, pila lang ang makapulos sini.
Paathag ni Ladrido, possible nga mag-angkon sang negatibo nga epekto ang taas-sa sweldo sa ekonomiya, bangud madamo sang magagmay nga mga negosyo sa Pilipinas nga mabudlayan nga ipatuman ang 200 pesos nga wage increase.
Kun ikonsiderar naman nga ang Pilipinas na ang may pinakamataas nga minimum wage sa Southeast Asia, posible man ini nga magpalayo na ang mga investors.
Apang suno sa natungdan, madugay pa ini nga proseso bangud kinahanglan pa nga may version diri ang Senado antes mapasar sa Kongreso ang hagna.
Dugang pa sini, mas maayo nga itugyan na lang sa Regional Wage Boards ang desisyon nga amo ang nagatiglawas sa gobyerno, employers kag mga mamumugon.
Ang Department of Labor and Employment ang magapanguna sa paghimo sang implementing rules and regulations sang layi.
Gasolina, magataas, samtang Diesel, maganubo sa una nga semana sang Pebrero
Lauman ang mixed price adjustment sa produktong petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Suno sa Department of Energy Oil Industry Management Bureau (DOE-OIMB), dako ang mangin rollback sa Diesel nga posibleng magdangat sa ₱1.30 tubtob ₱1.60.
Amo man sa Kerosene nga may ₱0.85 tubtob ₱1.00.
Samtang, magataas naman ang presyo sa kada litro sang Gasoline sa ₱0.40 tubtob ₱0.70.
Ginalauman nga sa Lunes, iaanunsyo sang mga kumpaniya sang gatong ang pinal nga oil price adjustments.
Pilipinas, maga-import sang linibo nga karnero kag kanding
Maga-import ang Pilipinas sang 1,520 ka mga kanding kag 4,310 ka mga karnero agud nga mas ma-improve ang domestic herd kag mabuligan ang meat production sa pungsod.
sa plano para sa bulig sa genetic quality sang local livestock kag bilang parte sang pagpapag-on sang goat kag sheep farming sectors.
Suno sa ahensya, 155 Anglo Nubian bucks, 175 Boer bucks kag 1,190 Boer does ang mangin kabahin sang goat importation program.
Tanan nga imported nga kanding ang ipanagtag sa nucleus and multiplier farms sa Barili, Cebu kag sa Makilala, North Cotabato.
Para naman sa iga-import nga karnero, lakip diri ang 260 Dorper rams kag 4,050 Dorper ewes nga igahatag naman sa North Cotabato.
Tanan nga imported nga sapat ang dapat nga six-15 months old ang edad kag may naka-set man nga kilos antes tugutan nga makasulod sa Pilipinas.
Ginalauman nga ini nga imports ang maka-supplement sa income sang farmers, makahatag sang trabaho, kag makasuporta sa food security efforts sa pungsod.
Inflation rate sa 2025 kag ’26, ginalauman nga sulod gihapon sa target range sang BSP
Ginalantaw sang private sector analysts nga sulod gihapon sa target range sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) ang mangin inflation rate sang Pilipinas sa 2025 kag 2026.
Ang target sang central bank ang nagatupa sa dos tubtub kuwatro porsyento.
Base sa December 2024 Survey of External Forecasters sang bangko halin sang Disyembre 6-12, 2024, nagapabilin sa 3.1 percent kag 3.2 percent ang mean forecasts para sa duha ka tuig.
Base sa respondents, ang nagapanguna nga downside risks sa inflation amo ang padayon nga pagnubo sa presyo sang bugas kag ang pangkabug-usan nga paborable nga outlook sa global oil prices.
Apang may paandam man ang analysts sa posible nga upside risks lakip na ang problema sa suplay bangud sa geopolitical tensions, malain nga panahon, kag potensyal nga pagsaka sa balayran sa kuryente.
Gina-flag man nga risgo ang mas mataas nga wage adjustments kag ang protectionist US trade policies nga mahimo magpasaka sa inflation.
Hagna nga magahatag sang P200 nga dugang sa sweldo sa private sector, aprubado na sa Kamara
Aprubado na sa House Committee on Labor and Employment nga ginapangunahan ni Rep.
Fidel Nograles ang hagna nga may katuyuan nga magpatuman sang P200 across the board wage hike sa private sector.
Sa hearing sang komitiba subong nga adlaw, ginpasar sang house panel ang substitute bill para sa House Bill 514, 756, 7871 kag 10319 nga lunsay mga hagna agud magpatuman sang saka sa sweldo.
Pag-invest sang Maharlika sa NGCP,makabulig sa pagpanubo sang electricity costs
Suno kay Maharlika Investment Corporation President Rafael Consing Jr., ang acquisition sang Maharlika sa 20-percent stake sa NGCP ang magabulig sa mga Filipinos nga nagapas-an sang nagataas nga electricity costs.
Paathag niya, kun lantawon, ang cost sang kuryente ang madamo sang ginahalinan kag isa ang transmission cost sa nagabug-os sang cost sang ginabayaran nga kuryente per kilowatt hour.
Sa bahin naman sang NGCP, makabulig ini nga mapanubo ang electricity cost paagi sa pagpasiguro nga ang rollout ang nagakatabo gid man.
Dugang niya, kun madinalag-on ang roll-out sang transmission grid infrastructure, mas magadamo ang power players nga makasulod sa grid kag magahatag sang supply sa grid.
Samtang, ginpaathag man ni Consing kun ngaa ginpili sang Maharlika ang NGCP bilang first investment bangud nga suno sa iya tuman ka importante ang energy security.
Senintimos nga oil price rollback, epektibo na subong nga adlaw
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Matapos ang sunod-sunod nga oil price hike, ginpatuman naman subong nga adlaw ang pagnubo sa presyo sang produktong pretrolyo.
Suno sa oil industry sources, yari ang ginalauman nga oil price rollback:
Gasoline – maganubo sang ₱ 0.80 per liter Diesel – maganubo sang ₱ 0.20 per liter Kerosene – maganubo sang ₱ 0.50 per liter
DA, magaumpisa subong nga tuig sa pagtukod sang 99 cold storage facilities
Umpisahan sang gobyerno subong nga tuig ang pagtukod sang 99 cold storage facilities para nga mapalawig ang shelf life sang mga produkto — ukon malikawan nga madunot gilayon — kag mapabilin man nga estable ang suplay kag ang presyo.
Suno sa Department of Agriculture (DA), kabahin ini sang P3-billion project sang ahensya.
Ini nga mga pasilidad ang may manubo nga operating costs suno sa department kag pagagamitan sang renewable energy sources kag sang power grid.
Dugang pa sang ahensya, ginalauman nga mangin operational naman subong nga 2025 ang kadam-an sa magagmay nga cold storage facilities ukon modular chillers.
Madugayan naman ukon ginabanta 18-22 ka bulan ang pagtukod sa larger facilities nga sarang makatago sang 2,800 to 3,500 pallet positions.
May plano man nga tukuron sa Camarines Sur, Oriental Mindoro, kag Nueva Ecija.
Nahibaluan nga ang kakulangan sa cold storage facilities ang isa man sa nangin rason kun ngaa madasig mapierde ang mga produkto kag nagresulta pa gid sa pagpanglakaak sa presyo kaangay sa natabo anay sa bombay.
DA, target ang P49/kg nga MSRP para sa imported rice sa Marso
Padayunon sang Department of Agriculture (DA) ang pagbuhin sa maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) para sa imported rice tubtub nga makalab-ot ini sa target nga P49 per kilo sa Marso.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Tiu Laurel, amat-amat ini nga himuon — P55/kg sa Pebrero 5, P52/kg sa Pebrero 15, P50/kg sa Marso 1, tubtub nga malab-ot ang P49/kg nga amo ang target.
Sang Enero 20 sang gin-umpisahan sang DA ang MSRP nga P58 per kilo para sa imported rice sa mga merkado sa Metro Manila.
Ginpahayag sang DA nga kasunod ini sang pagnubo sang presyo sa international market kag pagbuhin man sang taripa halin sa 35% pa-us-os sa 15% umpisa sang Hulyo 2024.
Nahibaluan nga sa subong, ginahulat man sa gihapon sang DA ang resolution sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC) nga amo ang pormal nga maga-rekomendar sa ahensya nga magdeklarar sang food security emergency para sa bugas.
Ang food emergency declaration amo ang magatugot sa National Food Authority (NFA) nga magpaguwa sang buffer stock sang bugas agud nga ma-stabilize ang presyo.
Presyo sang gatong, posible magnubo sa masunod nga semana
Posible nga may ipatuman nga rollback sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo antes magtakop ang Enero.
Base sa nauna nga apat ka adlaw sang trading, may nakit-an na nga pagnubo nga amo ang masunod:
Base sa mga eksperto sa industriya, mahimo maangot ini nga pagnubo sa gin-anunsyo ni US President Donald Trump nga maga-produce ang Estados Unidos sang dugang nga fossil fuels kaangay sang krudo.
Ang plano ni Trump nga dugangan ang taripa sa mga produkto halin sa dalagku nga trading partners sang US ang ginalantaw man nga makaapekto sa economic growth nga amo naman ang maga-resulta sa mas manubo nga fuel demand.
Subong nga adlaw natalana nga magpaguwa sang forecast ang Department of Enery, may final nga price adjustment nga iga-anunsyo sa Lunes, kag ipatuman ina ipektibo sa Martes sang aga.
Deklarasyon sang food security emergency, na-delay
Naatrasar ang pagdeklarar sang food security emergency sa Pilipinas.
Suno kay Department of Agriculture (DA) spokesman Arnel de Mesa, wala pa gihapon nakaabot sa ila ang resolusyon nga ginpasar sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC).
Santo sa nauna nga pahayag ni DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel, Jr., kun makaabot na sa ila, repasuhon pa ini sang duha ka adlaw antes ideklarar.
Ang ginapatuhuyan sini amo ang price council resolution nga naga-rekomendar sang deklarasyon sang food emergency bangud sa nakit-an nga extraordinary increase sa presyo sang bugas sa mga merkado.
Una kuntani nga gin-schedule ang deklarasyon Enero 22, ukon kahapon.
May nauna naman nga pahayag si President Ferdinand Marcos Jr.
nga pabor siya sa sini nga tikang agud pwersahon na nga magnubo ang presyo sa mga merkado bangud mataas man gihapon ini apisar ginpanubo na ang taripa.
BSP Iloilo, magabaylo sang gisi, dunot kag mahigko nga kwarta
𝗜𝗟𝗢𝗜𝗟𝗢 𝗖𝗜𝗧𝗬 – Magapatigayon ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) sang piso caravan.
Ini ang kadungan man sang pagselebrar sang Dinagyang Festival.
Suno sa BSP, kabahin ini sang ila ginaduso nga Clean Note and Coin Policy sa diin mahimo nga pabalyuhan ang mga higko, dunot kag gision nga mga kwarta sa Piso Caravan booth sang Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI)-Solis Branch, Iloilo City.
Maga-umpisa ini bwas, Enero 23, las 10:00 sa aga tubtob la 1:00 sa hapon.
Usisa-on naman ang kwarta base sa 3S (size, signature, kag security thread) nga santo sa pagsulundan sang BSP.
Para sa mga BSP-supervised financial institutions nga luyag makigbahin sa Piso Caravan Program, makig-angot lang sa pinakamalapit nga BSP regional office ukon branch sa inyo lugar.
ang tanan nga opisyal kag staff sang ahensya nga magtinguha pa para sa mas mas mataas nga produksyon ubong nga tuig sa pihak sang pagpanghangkat nga ginapangatubang sang agriculture sector.
Suno kay Laurel, apisar nakahimo sang dako nga progreso sang 2024, kinahanglan nga malab-ot man ang mas dako nga demands para sa 2025.
Pahayag niya, paagi sa pagpataas sang food production,pag- modernize sang agricultural infrastructure, kag pag- prioritize sang kaayuhan sang mga mangunguma, mas maduso ang sustainable growth sa sektor sang agrikultura.
Partikular nga gintumod ni Laurel ang pag-focus sa pag-improve sang food security sang pungsod.
Suno pa sa iya, sa pihak sang pagtinguha sang ahensya nga ma- stabilize ang food prices kag ma- address ang disruptions, may problema gihapon sa nagataas nga input costs, climate variability, kag smuggling nga nagaupang sa handom nga food security.
Suno sa tiglikom, ini nga katuyuan ang malab-ot gid kun makahimo sang mas mataas nga rice harvest kag mas mapasanyog ang agricultural systems sa 2025.
Una na ginpahayag sang ahensya nga target sini nga malab-ot ang 20.46 million metric tons (MT) nga rice harvest sa 2025, nga mas mataas sa 19.3 million MT sang 2024.
Suno pa kay Laurel, i-improve man ang logistics para sa perishable goods kaangay sang ulutanon kag prutas paagi sa dugang nga infrastructures kaangay sang cold chain systems kag regional production hubs.
Oil price hike, liwat naman nga ipatuman
Epektibo na bwas, Enero 21, ang bigtime oil price hike.
Ini na ang ikatatlo ka sunod-sunod nga semana subong nga Enero 2025 nga nagsaka ang presyo sang gatong.
⬆️ ₱1.65 sa kada litro sang Gasoline ⬆️ ₱2.70 sa kada litro sang Diesel ⬆️ ₱2.50 sa kada litro sang Kerosene
P58/kg nga maximum SRP sa imported rice, epektibo na subong nga adlaw
Ipatuman na epektibo subong nga adlaw, Enero 20, ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) nga P58 sa imported rice.
Suno sa Department of Agriculture (DA), sa Metro Manila anay ang inisyal nga implementasyon kag panilagan sa masunod nga sinemana para sa posible nga adjustments.
Suno kay Agriculture Assistant Secretary kag spokesman Arnel de Mesa, maga-check ang personnel sang DA kag Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) sa mga merkado agud masiguro nga naga-comply sila sa pagsulundan.
Sa idalom sang Price Act, mahimo makapatong ang traders sang maximum nga 10% nga ginansya sa baligya nila, apang sa idalom sang maximum SRP, ang P58 amo dapat ang pinakamataas nga presyo.
May pila ka rice varieties kaangay sang glutinous rice, black rice kag red rice nga indi covered sang maximum SRP.
Ginpahayag ni De Mesa nga kumpyansa sila nga maganubo na ang retail price sang bugas sa masunod nga inadlaw.
Samtang, subong man nga semana natalana nga mag-istorya si DA Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
para sa pormal nga implementasyon sang food security emergency nga ginalauman nga pirmahan sa Myerkules.
Ekonomiya sang Pilipinas, ginalauman nga maka-post sang kapin 6% nga pag-uswag subong nga tuig
Ginalauman ang ekonomiya sang Pilipinas nga maka-post sang kapin sa anum ka porsyento nga pag-uswag subong nga tuig nga may mas manubo nga inflation kag interest rates agud suportahan ang consumption kag investments.
Samtang ang inflation amo ang major risk sa ekonomiya sang Pilipinas kag global economy sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig.
Ang average nga inflation sang pungsod nga 3.2 percent sang nagligad nga tuig ang yara sa sulod sang target nga range sang bangko sentral nga duha tubtob apat ka porsyento.
Nahibaluan nga sang nagligad nga tuig, amo ang una nga tion nga ang average nga headline inflation yara sa sulod sang target sang bangko sentral, halin sang 2021.
Pork supply sa Pilipinas, maka-recover na sa sulod sang 2-3 ka semana — DA
Nagpain ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sang P1.25 billion agud mabuligan ang hog industry nga makabangon sa African swine fever (ASF) ilabi na bangud nagapanglakaak sa gihapon ang presyo sang karne sang baboy bangud sa limitado nga suplay.
2, nakasaad ang pag-implementar sang swine industry recovery project (SIRP) agud nga maduso ang modernisasyon sa swine industry.
Suno kay Laurel, tuyo sini nga programa nga mapabaskog ang biosecurity, mangin mas moderno ang farm infrastructure, mapaayo ang genetic quality kag mapasangkad ang market access.
Paagi sini suno sa natungdan, mas malapad ang malab-utan kaangay sang magagmay nga farmers, kooperatiba, commercial breeders, kag at-risk agricultural communities nga nagatanyag sang customized assistance nga maka-restore, modernize kag maintain sang produksyon sang baboy sa bilog nga pungsod.
Ginbasol ni Laurel sa outbreak sang ASF kun ngaa nagnubo ang pork output, nagsaka ang presyo, kag naapektuhan ang mga consumer kag kabug-usan nga food supply chain.
Apang pahayag sini, ginalantaw niya nga maka-recover na ang suplay sang baboy sa pungsod sa masunod nga tatlo ka semana.
Tapos na ang Christmas season suno sa natungdan gani nagnubo naman ang consumption, gani sa masunod nga duha-tatlo ka semana, magadamo na liwat ang suplay.
Sa Metro Manila, ang pork liempo yara na sa P370 – 450/kg; samtang ang kasim naman yara sa P330/kg-P400/kg base sa DA Bantay Presyo (price watch).
Bisan wala sang supply shortage sa pangkabug-usan suno sa DA, yara gihapon ang daku nga epekto sang ASF sa swine industry.
27, 2024, 225 ang yara sa red zones ukon barangays nga may active ASF cases nga mas manubo sa 365 nga na-rekord sang Disyembre 6 sang tinalikdan nga tuig.
Food security emergency, ginalantaw nga i-deklarar sang DA sa Miyerkules, Enero 22, 2025
Ginalauman sang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga magadeklarar sang food security emergency sa masunod nga semana, partikular sa Miyerkules, Enero 22, 2025.
Ginpahayag ni DA spokesperson Assistant Secretary Arnel de Mesa nga ginalauman nga sa Lunes, makabaton na ang DA sang kopya sang resolution nga naga-aprubar sang rekomendasyon nga magdeklarar sang food security emergency.
Sang damlag, lang gin-aprubahan sang National Price Coordinating Council ang isa ka resolusyon nga nagahingyo sa Department of Agriculture nga magdeklarar sang “food security emergency for rice” bangud nagapabilin nga mataas ang presyo sang amo nga balaklon.
Nahibaluan nga sa idalom sang Republic Act 12078, ukon ang kasuguan nga naga-amyendar sang Agricultural Tariffication Act, ang Agriculture Secretary may gahum sa pagdeklarar sang food security emergency sa bugas bangud sang kakulang sang suplay ukon tumalagsahon nga pagtaas sang presyo.
Food security emergency, natalana nga ideklarar sa masunod nga semana
Madayon gid ang deklarasyon sang food security emergency sa Pilipinas sa masunod nga semana.
Ini matapos nga naghatag na sang suporta si President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
sa amo nga tikang sa rason nga mapwersa suno sa iya nga mapanubo ang presyo sang bugas sa mga merkado.
Suno kay President Marcos, bisan nga nagnubo na ang gasto sa produksyon, mataas gihapon ang presyo.
Dahil hanggang ngayon kahit ibaba mo lahat ng inputs, ang pagbenta pa rin mataas pa rin,” pahayag sang chief executive.
Sang Hulyo sang nagligad nga tuig, nagsiling ang economic managers nga mabuhinan sang P5-P6 per kilo ang presyo pag-abot sang Agusto kun matapyasan na sang gobyerno ang taripa sa imported rice sa 15% halin sa 35%.
Gin-aprubahan ni Marcos ang amo nga tikang, apang santo sa monitoring sang Department of Agriculture, nagnubo matuod ang presyo sa imported well-milled kag regular milled rice varieties apang mataas gihapon ang special kag premium rice.
Sini nga semana, gin-aprubahan sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC) ang resolution nga magatulod sa DA nga magdeklarar sang “food security emergency for rice”.
Kun mahimo na sang DA ang deklarasyon, matugutan naman ang National Food Authority (NFA) nga mapaguwa ang ila nga buffer stock sang bugas para ma-stabilize ang presyo.
Ang stocks nga iga-release ang paga-islan sang locally produced rice para nga masuportahan naman ang Filipino farmers.#
Big-time price hike sa gatong, ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
Ipatuman sa masunod nga semana ang panibag-o nga pagsaka sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo nga amo ang nagamarka sang ikatatlo nga sunod-sunod nga semana sang price hike.
Santo sa international fuel trading sa nagligad nga apat ka adlaw, yari ang ginabanta nga pagtaas sa presyo suno sa Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau:
Pahayag pa sang DOE, ang mga isyu sa international oil market amo ang nag-impluwensya sa price adjustments, lakip na ang bag-o nga sanctions sang United States kag United Kingdom batok sa Russian oil.
Iga-anunsyo sang fuel companies ang pinal nga price adjustments sa Lunes kag ipatuman epektibo sa Martes sang aga.
Halin sang nagsugod ang 2025, yara na sa P1.80 per liter ang ginsaka sa gasoline kag kerosene samtang ang diesel naman ang nagsaka na sa P2.30 per liter.#
Natalana nga pagdeklarar sang food security emergency, may bastante nga basehan — DA
nga may bastante nga basehan sa pagdeklarar sang food security emergency sa Pilipinas.
Pahayag sini, tuman ka klaro ang data nga ginpresentar sang National Price Coordinating Council (NPCC) nga mataas gihapon ang presyo sang bugas bisan pa nga ginpanubuan na sang gobyerno ang taripa sa imported rice.
Dugang sini, ginahulat na lang sini ang council nga pormal nga makapasa sang rekomendasyon sa Department of Agriculture (DA) para sa deklarasyon sang emergency.
Kun mabaton na niya ini, magapangayo si Tiu Laurel sang komento halin kay President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
Sa idalom sang bag-o lang napirmahan nga Republic Act 12078 ukon ang Agricultural Tariffication Act, kun may rekomendasyon na ang NPCC, may gahum na ang DA nga magdeklarar sang amo nga emerhensya.
Ini ang ginalantaw nga sabat kun kulang ang suplay ukon may ‘extraordinary increase’ ukon indi kinaandan nga pagsaka sa presyo sang bugas.
Presyo sang masobra 60 ka basic kag prime goods, magasaka epektibo sa Pebrero
Magasaka ang presyo sang masobra 60 ka items sang basic necessities and prime commodities (BNPC) umpisa masunod nga bulan.
Suno kay Trade Secretary Cristina Roque, sa 217 BNPCs sa suggested retail price (SRP) bulletin nga ginapaguwa sang ahensya, 72% lamang ang indi magsaka — buot silingon, may pagmahal sa nabilin nga 28% ukon katumbas sang 63 items.
Pahayag sang tiglikom, ‘minimal’ lamang ang price increase nga ginlaragway sini nga “below 5% and a little bit below 10%.”
Ginpaathag man sang opisyal nga nahangpan man sang ahensya ang bahin sang manufacturers rason nga gin-aprubahan ang ila hingyo nga magpataas sa presyo.
Ginplastar nga rason sang manufacturers ang pagsaka man sa presyo sang raw materials amo man sa labor.
Base sa DTI, nalakip sa items nga may aprubado nga price adjustments amo ang canned sardines, kandila, batteries, kag powdered milk.
Lauman nga masunod nga bulan ipaguwa man sang DTI ang updated nga bulletin sang SRP.
May panibag-o nga pagsaka sa presyo sang produktong-petrolyo sa masunod nga semana.
Base sa tatlo ka nauna nga trading days sa Singapore’s Mean of Platts, ang presyo sang diesel kag kerosene ang nagsaka na sang dos pesos kada litro samtang ang presyo naman sang gasolina ang nagsaka na sang masobra sa P1.50 per liter.
Pahayag sang Department of Energy (DOE), ang mayor nga rason sa pagtaas sa presyo amo ang bag-o nga sanctions sang Estados Unidos sang Amerika sa Russia.
Iga-anunsyo ang final price adjustments sa Lunes, Enero 20, kag ipatuman epektibo sa Martes sang aga, Enero 21.
Nahibaluan nga sa nauna nga duha ka semana sa 2025, naglab-ot na sa P2.30 ang ginsaka sa presyo sa diesel kag P1.80 kada litro sa gasolina.
NCPP, gina-evaluate na ang mga tikang agud makadeklarar ang DA sang food security emergency
Ginakonsiderar na sang National Price Coordinating Council (NCPP) ang pagdeklarar sang indi kinaandan nga pagsaka sa presyo sang pagkaon nga amo ang mangin lyabe agud nga maka-deklarar man ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sang food security emergency.
Sa hearing sang Quinta Committee sa Kamara ukon ang Murang Pagkain Supercommittee, ginpahayag ni Department of Trade and Industry (DTI)-Consumer Protection and Advocacy Bureau officer in charge Director Cherryl Carbonell nga nakasapol na ang council kag nagahimo na subong sang resolusyon.
Isa si Carbonell sa mga resource person sa amo nga committee kun sa diin gindiskusyunan ang mataas nga presyo sang mga balaklon sa mercado.
Pahayag sini, sang tion sang ila meeting, yara mismo si Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr.
kag iban pa nga ranking officials sang DA.
Ginkumpirma man sini nga may nakasugtan ang mga tawo nagtambong sa meeting nga may nakit-an gid man nga emerhensya sa sitwasyon subong sa Pilipinas bangud sa kamahal sang mga balaklon.
sang Disyembre 2024, mahimo makadeklarar ang DA secretary sang food security emergency bilang sabat sa kakulangan sa suplay sang bugas kag kun may makit-an nga tuman nga pagsaka sa presyo sini.
Ang NPCC amo lamang ang may gahum nga maka-advise sa DA secretary kun malab-ot ini nga duha ka kondisyon kag kun pwede na sila makadeklarar sang emerhensya sa sitwasyon.
Pagbalik sang P400 million nga branding budget sang DOT, ginmando ni Pres.
Suno kay Marcos, katuyuan sini nga mapadayon ang mayo nga naumpisahan sang mga Pilipino sa pagbatak sa imahe sang Pilipinas.
Ang nasambit nga pondo ang kuhaon sa contingency fund sang Presidente.
Ginhalimbawa diri ni Marcos ang mga recent accomplishments sang mga Pilipino lakip na ang two-time gymnastics world champion nga si Carlos Yulo kag ang nag-kampeon sa “The Voice US” nga si Sofronio Vasquez, nga lunsay naghatag sang dungog sa pungsod.
Kapin 467,000 ka mga salakyan, nadugang sa mga dalan sang Pilipinas sang 2024
Kapin sa 467,000 ka mga salakyan ang nadugang sa mga dalan sang Pilipinas sang 2024 nga ang sales growth ginalauman nga mapadayon subong nga tuig.
(CAMPI) kag sang Truck Manufacturers Association (TMA), may 467,252 ka mga units nga nabaligya sang 2024 nga nagapakita sang 8.7% nga pagtaas gikan sa 429,807 ka mga units nga nabaligya sang 2023.
Samtang ang commercial vehicles ang nagbug-os sang 74.15% sang merkado nga may 346,482 ka units, samtang ang mga depampasahero nga salakyan nagbug-os sang 25.85% nga may 120,770 ka units.
Ini bangud may 42,044 ka mga units nga nabaligya sang Disyembre nga nagamarka sang 2.8% nga growth gikan sa 40,898 ka mga units nga nabaligya sang Nobyembre, kag 7.4% nga mas mataas kon ipaanggid sa 39,153 ka mga units nga nabaligya sang Disyembre 2023.
Ginpatuman na subong nga adlaw ang panibag-o nga hugnat sang oil price hike.
Suno sa oil industry sources, yari ang estimated nga pagsaka sa presyo sang gatong:
Nahibaluan nga ini na ang ikaduha nga sunod-sunod nga semana subong nga 2025 nga ginpatuman ang oil price hike.
Lauman na naman ang panibag-o nga hugnat sang oil price hike sa bwas, Enero 14.
Suno sa oil industry sources, yari ang pagsaka sa presyo sang gatong:
MSRP sa imported rice, gin-set sang DA sa P58/kg
Gin-set sang gobyerno sa P58 kada kilo ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) para sa imported rice.
Pahayag ni Laurel, ini nga desisyon ang kasunod sang malawig nga konsultasyon sa mga tawo sa industriya kaangay sang importers kag retailers kag mga ahensya sang gobyerno.
Gindugang sini nga iga-repaso man ang MSRP kada bulan para nga makonsiderar ang bag-o nga mga rason nga nagaapekto sa presyo.
Una naman nga ginpasalig ni Trade chief Cristina Roque nga magabulig ang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) sa pag-monitor kag pagpatuman sang presyo nga gin-set sang DA.
Foreign direct investments (FDI) sang Pilipinas, naglab-ot sa highest level sa sulod sang 8 ka bulan sang Oktubre 2024
Naglab-ot sa highest level ang Foreign direct investments (FDI) sang Pilipinas sa sulod sang walo ka bulan sang Oktubre 2024.
Ini bangud sa strong surge sa intercompany borrowings sa tunga sang multinational firms kag their local affiliates, nga naghatag man sang eclipse sa inflows sang fresh capital.
Ang Job-generating FDIs nakarehistro sang net inflow nga $1 billion sang October, 50.2- percent nga mas mataas kon ipanggid sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno sa Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), ang net inflow nagakahulugan nga mas madamo sang foreign capital ang nagsulod sa pungsod batok sa mga nagguwa sa sulod sang isa ka period.
Nagdala ini sang 10-ka bulan nga FDI net inflow sa $7.7 bilyon, nga nagtaas sang 8.2 porsyento kag nagapalapit sa $9-bilyon nga forecast sang BSP para sa bug-os nga 2024.
Pilipinas, nakatipon sang masobra P760 billion nga kita sa turismo sa tuig 2024
Nakatipon ang Pilipinas sang masobra P760 billion nga kita sa turismo sa tuig 2024.
Suno kay Tourism Secretary Christina Frasco, ang turismo sa Pilipinas nakatipon sang all-time high in visitor revenues gikan sa aton mga internasyonal nga turista.
Nagarepresentar ini sang kapin sa 9% nga pagtaas gikan sa 2023 nga kita sang mga visitors kag 126% nga recovery gikan sa 600 billion visitor receipts sang 2019.
Suno kay Frasco, ang numero nagapakita nga ang ekonomiya, nagbangon sa performance sang turismo sa Pilipinas.
Nagpasalig man ini nga ang Department of Tourism nangin malig-on sa ila pangako nga masiguro ang pagdamo sang mga naga-abot nga turista sa pungsod.
Oil price hike, liwat naman nga ipatuman sa masunod nga semana
Lauman na naman ang panibag-o nga hugnat sang oil price hike sa masunod nga semana.
Gasoline – magasaka sang P0.40 – 0.70 per liter Diesel – magasaka sang P0.45 – 0.75 per liter Kerosene – magasaka sang P0.65 – 0.75 per liter
Ipagwa naman ang pinal nga presyo sang gatong sa Lunes kag ipatuman naman ini sa Martes.
Wala nalab-ot sang Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) ang target sini para sa tobacco excise tax collection bangud sa pagpadayon gihapon sang iligal nga baligyaanay sa Pilipinas.
Suno sa ahensya, ang ila nga total tobacco excise tax collection sang nagligad nga tuig ang yara lamang sa P134 billion.
Kulang ini sang P51 billion agud kuntani malab-ot ang P185 billion target collection sang 2023.
Ang nakolekta sang nagligad nga tuig ang mas manubo man ipaanggid sa P134.91 billion nga natipon sang BIR sang 2023.
Ginalantaw sang bureau nga factors kun ngaa indi nila malab-ot ang ila target amo bangud naglain na ang consumption patterns sang mga nagasigarilyo lakip na ang pagsaylo sa vape, kag ang pagpabilin sang illicit trade sa market mangin sa online platforms.
Naka-conduct ang BIR sang at least 141 raids sa illegal vapor products kag tatlo sa illicit cigarettes sang nagligad nga tuig.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Finance Secretary Ralph Recto nga nagakadulaan ang gobyerno sang P52 billion sa revenues bangud sa tobacco and vape smuggling.
Numero sang unemployed nga Pilipino sa tunga sang seasonal nga pagtaas sang demand para sa labor sa tion sang “ber” moths, nagnubo
Nagnubo sang Nobyembre 2024 ang numero sang mga unemployed nga mga Pilipino sa tunga sang seasonal nga pagtaas sang demand para sa labor sa tion sang “ber” moths nga nagadul-ong sa mga holidays.
Suno kay Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) chief and National Statistician nga si Claire Dennis Mapa, ang mga indibidwal nga wala sang trabaho, naga-edad 15 pataas, naglab-ot sa 1.66 million, mas manubo sa 1.97 million nga wala sang trabaho sang Oktubre 2024.
Tuig-tuig, ang numero sang unemployed sang Nobyembre 2024 mas manubo man sa 1.83 million nga wala sang trabaho sang Nobyembre 2023.
Bilang porsyento sang 51.20 million ka mga Pilipino sa pwersa sang trabaho, nga aktibo nga nagapangita sang trabaho kag palangabuhian sa sulod sang panahon, ang kadamuon sang unemployed nga mga tawo nag-translate sa isa ka unemployment rate nga 3.2%, nagnubo gikan sa 3.9% sang Oktubre 2024.
Indi lamang sa imported rice ipatuman ang maximum suggested retail price (MSRP) kundi sa iban pa gid nga mga produkto.
Suno sa Department of Agriculture (DA), mahimo man ini iimplementar sa iban nga imported food commodities kaangay sang vegetables kag karne.
Tiu Laurel, Jr., nagapakig-angot na sila sa Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) agud padayon nga magpangita sang mga paagi nga mabuhinan ang palas-anon sa pinansyal sang mga Pilipino.
Roque nga iga-convene sini ang National Price Coordinating Council agud marepaso ang mga estratehiya sa pagpa-estable sang presyo.
Una na nga ginpahayag sang DA nga posible sa katapusan sang bulan nila ma-finalize ang MSRP para sa imported rice para nga malikawan ang manipulasyon sa presyo.
Pag-refund sang NGCP sang ginaalegar ‘excess revenues’ nga nagabalor sang P204 billion, ginaduso
Joey Salceda ang refund sa mga konsumidor sang ginaalegar “unauthorized” excess revenues nga ginkolekta sang National Grid Corporation of the Philippines (NGCP).
Yara ini sa ginabanta nga P204 billion humalin sang 2016 tubtob 2020.
Suno kay Salceda, base sa Energy Regulatory Commission’s preliminary rate review, P183.5 billion lamang sa P387.8 billion nga revenue sang korporasyon para sa amo nga period ang aprubado sang ERC.
Pahayag ni Salceda, ang P204 billion ang minimum lang bangud para ini sa completed projects apang kun ilakip ang incomplete projects nga wala gin-isip sang ERC, mas dako pa ini sa P204 billion.
Nahibaluan nga indi magnubo sa duha ka mga kongresista ang nagduso para sa NGCP ngai – refund ang franchise tax nga ginpasa sini sa mga consumers antes ang ERC nag-isyu sang resolution nga naga- suspend sang amo nga tikang.
Humalin sang gin-isyu ang ERC resolution, ginsiling sang Bureau of Internal Revenue nga ang NGCP ang regular nga nagabayad sang franchise tax, nga naga-average sang P1.3 tubtob 1.5 billion kada tuig humalin sang 2018, base sa records sang komisyon.
Para naman kay APEC Party List Representative Sergio Dagooc, kinahanglan nga imbestigaran para sa legal accountabilities ang ERC officials nga nag-approve sang 2011 resolution nga nagpahanugot sa NGCP nga ipasa sa consumers ang 3 percent franchise tax.
Inflation sa Pilipinas, nagdasig sa 2.9% sang December 2024
Nagdasig sang 2.9% ang inflation ukon ang pagtaas sang mga produkto ukon serbisyo sang Disyembre 2024.
Mas mataas ini kun ipaanggid sa 2.5% sang Nobyembre sang nagligad nga tuig.
Suno kay National Statistician kag Undersecretary Claire Dennis Mapa, ang inflation sang Disyembre 2024 ang mas manubo naman kun ipaanggid sa inflation sang Disyembre 2023 nga yara sa 3.9%.
It is like we are saying na ito dapat ang maximum presyo nyan.
DA, nagaplano sa pagpatuman sang maximum suggested retail price para sa imported rice
Nagaplano ang Department of Agriculture (DA) nga mag-set sang “maximum suggested retail price” (MSRP) system para sa imported rice sa tuyo nga mapanubo ang presyo sini sa mga merkado.
Suno kay Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu Laurel Jr., posible nga ipaguwa nila ini sa katapusan sang Enero.
Ginklaro man sini nga lain ini ipaanggid sa price cap.
Gindugang man ni DA spokesperson Arnel De Mesa nga nagaplano man ang ahensya nga ibutang ang type, country of origin, kag percentage sang broken rice sa mga produkto nga ginabutang sa merkado.
Makig-istorya man ang DA sa iban pa nga mga ahensya para sa sanctions sa mga magalapas sa MSRP.
Ini nga tikang ang kasunod sa marathon hearings sa Kamara sang nagligad nga tuig nga nag-sentro sa ginaalegar nga price manipulation, profiteering, kag hoarding sang imported rice.
Gingisa sang mga mamalidha ang concerned agencies lakip na ang DA kag ang National Economic and Development Authority kun ngaa nga wala naganubo ang presyo sang imported rice bisan pa nga ginpanubo na sang gobyerno ang taripa.
Sa latest price monitoring sang ahensya, ang imported special rice sa Metro Manila ang nagatupa sa P54 tubtub sa P65 per kilo samtang ang imported premium rice naman ang nagatupa sa P52 tubtub sa P60.
Epektibo na bwas, Enero 9, ang bigtime oil price hike.
Ini matapos ang senintimos nga rollback sa presyo sang gatong nga ginpatuman sang nagligad nga semana.
Suno sa oil industry sources, yari ang saka sa presyo sang gatong:
⬆️ ₱1.10 sa kada litro sang Gasolina ⬆️ ₱1.49 sa kada litro sang Diesel ⬆️ ₱1.00 sa kada litro sang Kerosene
Pilipinas, magahulam sang masobra P369-B sa ADB kag World Bank subong nga tuig
Magasandig ang gobyerno sang Pilipinas sa foreign lenders subong nga tuig para malab-ot ang mga tinutuyo sini sa development sang nasyon.
Ginapahayag nga magahulam ang Marcos administration sang kabug-usan nga $6.35 billion (ginabanta nga P369.66 billion) halin sa Asian Development Bank (ADB) kag World Bank agud nga may pondo ang mga proyekto.
Ini nga mga inisyatibo magatutok sa pagpaumwad sa urban transit, pag-promote sang climate-resilient agriculture, pagpasangkad pa sang malimpyo nga enerhiya, pagpaayo pa sang sanitation, pagpabaskog sang health and education services, kag pag-upgrade sang rural infrastructure.
Ginaalegar nga pito ka concessional financing packages ang magahalin sa ADB kag siyam naman ang mangin loan sa World Bank apang naka-schedule pa ini nga aprubahan subong nga tuig.
Una na nga ginpahayag ni Department of Finance Secretary Ralph Recto nga nagaplano ang national government nga buhinan ang foreign borrowings sa 10 percent sa medium term nga amo ang magahimo sang domestic borrowings sa 90 percent.
Ini nga proposal suno kay Recto ang naga-target sang gradual shift sa 90 percent domestic borrowing agud nga mabuhinan ang mga risgo kaangot sa foreign exchange sa paglapaw sang 2028.
Sang nagligad nga tuig, naka-secure ang DOF sang 12 financing deals kag nakahulam sang kabug-usan nga $5.67 billion (P333.42 billion) agud mapondohan ang mga proyekto sa infrastructure, transport, defense, digital technology, health, kag agriculture.
15% nga pagtaas sang contribution sang mga myembro kag employers sang SSS, masugod subong nga Enero
Magasugod subong nga Enero 2025 ang 15% nga pagtaas sang contribution sang mga myembro kag employers sang Social Security System (SSS).
Ini ang nagasunod man sa order sa idalom sang Republic Act No.
Sa idalom sang layi, ang 1% nga pagtaas sang kontribusyon ang ipatuman sa mga katapo sang SSS kada duha ka tuig nga nagasugod sa 12% sang 2019 tubtob nga maglab-ot ini sa 15% sang 2025.
Sugod sini nga bulan, ang employer’s share mangin 10%, samtang ang kontribusyon sang empleyado ginatalana sa 5%.
Stock market sang Pilipinas nagtaas: Balor sang peso nagnubo sa una nga trading day sang 2025
Nagbukas ang mga Philippine financial markets para sa tuig 2025 nga may mixed note nga resulta.
Nagtaas ang mga stocks, apang naghinay ang balor sang peso sa una nga adlaw sang trading sa bag-ong tuig.
Ini kasunod sang pag-usisa sang mga economic data pagkatapos sang holiday season.
Ang Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PSEi) nagsaka sang 21.60 points ukon 0.33% sa 6,550.39 sa closing bell, samtang ang All Shares Index nagsaka man sang 6.59 points ukon 0.18% sa 3,755.10.
Duha ka sektor—financials kag services—ang nagpakita sang pagtaas, apang ang industrial, holding firms, property, kag mining and oil nanubo.
Kapin sa 1.114 bilyon ka shares nga nagabalor sang P3.240 billion ang nabaligya.
Kon kuhaon ang extraordinary block shares, ang balor sang turnover nagapundo sa P2.802 billion.
Mas madamo ang mga shares nga nabuhinan (97) ipaanggid sa mga nagsaka (94), samtang 47 ka shares ang wala nagbag-o.
Nagbukas na ang Queenbank sa Zarraga Branch, Iloilo.
Ang Queenbank Zarraga Branch nahamtang sa Jalandoni St., Poblacion Ilaud, Zarraga.
Nagatanyag ini sang mga serbisyo kaangay sang Savings and Checking Account, Dollar Deposit Account, ATM, Loan Services, Foreign Exchange, Western Union, Bayad Center, Bills Payment kag Mobile Banking.
Sa three point Seven (3.7) Billion Pesos nga resources, ginapasiguro sang Queenbank nga mahatag sa tawo ang kinahanglanon nga financial services.
Ang Queenbank ginpundar sang isa ka Ilonggo nga si Dr.
Rogelio Florete, masobra 40-anyos na ang nagligad kag nagaserbisyo sang tampad nationwide.
Ang Queenbank, member sang Bancnet, PDIC kag sang Florete Group.
Sa interview naman sang Bombo Radyo kay Zarraga Mayor Jofel Maranon-Soldevilla, iya ginpahayag nga bilang isa na ka 3rd class municipality,dako gid ang mabulig sang Queenbank sa economic activities sang banwa.
Suno sa iya, mas mangin accessible na sa mga pumuluyo ang banking kag indi na nila kinahanglan magkadto pa sa iban nga banwa bangud nga mas ginpalapit kag ginpahapos na ang serbisyo para sa tawo.
DA, dayunon ang plano sa pagkakas sang imported rice labels sa mga merkado
Padayon ang pagkonsulta sang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa nagkalain-lain nga rice industry groups kag mga asosasyon kaangot sa plano nga kakason ang mga label sa imported nga mga bugas sa merkado.
Suno kay Agriculture Assistant Secretary Arnel de Mesa, natabo ang ila nauna nga meeting sang Huwebes, Enero 2, agud nga madiskusyunan ang mga tikang kun paano malikawan ang manipulasyon sa presyo.
Suno pa sa ahensya, nagahilapit na ang ila pag-anunsyo kaangot sa pagkuha sang mga label nga ‘premium’ kag ‘special’ bilang brand names kag grade labels sa imported rice.
Nauna na nga ginpaathag ni Agriculture Secretary Francisco Tiu-Laurel Jr.
nga ini nga labels ang ginagamit sang retailers kag traders para hungod nga maglibog ang ulo sang magabakal kag ma-justify ang ila pagpasaka sa presyo.
Nakit-an man sang DA kag sang Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) nga pila sa retailers ang nagabutang sang presyo nga P60 per kilogram sa mercado kag butangan lang sang “premium” ukon “special.” Apang sa pagkamatuod, dapat nga P50 kada kilo lang ang presyo sini.
Una naman nga ginklaro sang DA nga ini nga pagsulundan ang indi pag-ipatuman sa locally-produced rice bangud kinahanglan nga proteksyunan ang Filipino farmers kag traders.
SSS, nagdepensa sa ginpatuman nga pagsaka sa contribution rate
Nagdepensa sang Social Security System (SSS) sa pagsaka sang contribution rate nga epektibo na umpisa sang Enero 1, 2025.
Halin sa 14% sang nagligad nga tuig, nagtaas ini sa 15% subong nga 2025 base sa bag-o nga set sang guidelines nga gin-release sang SSS sang nagligad pa nga Disyembre 19.
Ini ang nagamandu sa SSS nga taasan ang contribution rate sa kada duha ka tuig kag ang final increase amo ang ipatuman subong nga 2025.
Sang 2019, yara ang contribution rate sa 12 percent; nagsaka sa 13 percent sang 2021; kag 14 percent sang 2023.
Ini nga rate ang tungaon sa employer kag sa empleyado.
Para sa 15 percent contribution rate subong nga tuig, 10 percent ang sabton sang employer samtang ang empleyado naman ang magasabat sa nabilin nga 5 percent.
Suno kay Villacorta, ginasunod lang nila kun ano man ang nakabutang sa layi.
Halimbawa, kun P10,000 ang bulanan nga income sang tawo, may P1,500 SSS contribution (shared sa employer) nga mas mataas sa P1,400 nga ginbayaran sang 2024.
Kun mas mataas ang sweldo, mas mataas man ang contribution rate.
Madamo ang nagapamatok diri kag nagapanawagan sang suspension apang suno sa SSS, importante nga mapatuman ini bangud kun wala ini, maubos na ang pondo sang SSS kag tubtub na gid lamang sa 2032.
Matapos ang rollback sa presyo sang gatong, lauman naman ang panibag-o nga oil price hike sa masunod nga semana.
Gasoline – magasaka sang P0.40 – 0.70 per liter Diesel – magasaka sang P0.75 – 1.00 per liter Kerosene – magasaka sang P0.70 – 0.80 per liter
DA, ginpasangkad ang proyekto sa protein-enriched copra meal sa Western Visayas
Ini ang gin-launched sang 2022 agud solusyunan ang supply disruptions nga natuga sang COVID-19 kag nagapadayon nga Russia-Ukraine war.
Ang Protein-Enriched Copra Meal ang gin-roll out man sa CALABARZON (Regions IV-A) kag SOCCSKSARGEN (Region XI) agud nga ma-mitigate ang nagataas nga bili sang animal feed, kon sa diin, nagagamit ang proyekto sang copra meal—produkto halin sa coconut farming—bilang substitute para sa mga imported soybean meal.
Nahibaluan nga ang proyekto ang engineered paagi sa solid-state fermentation process, nga ginhimo sang University of the Philippines-Los Baños’ Biotech Center, nga naga-enhance sang copra meal’s protein content sa 45 percent—kon ipaanggid sa soybean meal.
Oil price rollback, ipatuman sa bisperas sang New Year
Magasugata sa mga motorista ang senintimos nga rollback sa presyo sang gatong sa bisperas sang bag-ong tuig, Disyembre 31.
Suno sa Department of Energy, santo sa international trading data, ang retail sang gatong ang nagbarato subong nga semana.
Gasoline – maganubo sang P0.30 per liter Diesel – maganubo sang P0.30 per liter Kerosene – maganubo sang P0.90 per liter
Ang rollback ang bangud sa prediction sang International Energy Agency nga pagsulobra sang supply sang gatong sa 2025.
NFA, handa magpaguwa sang buffer stock rice kun kinahanglanon subong nga holidays
Handa ang National Food Authority (NFA) nga magpaguwa sang suplay sang bugas agud nga masabat ang kinahanglanon sang relief agencies pananglitan may mga emerhensya subong nga holiday season.
Gin-isyu sang ahensya ang statement kasunod sang reports sa padayon nga aktibidad sa Bulkan Kanlaon sa Negros Island kag ang na-monitor nga intertropical convergence kag lapta-lapta nga pag-ulan sa kadam-an nga parte sang pungsod.
Suno kay NFA Administrator Larry Lacson, nagmandu na siya sa mga empleyado sa field nga iga-activate ang Operation Centers (OpCen) sa mga lugar nga apektado sang baha, bagyo, kag iban pa nga mga emerhensya.
Ginpabaskog man sang NFA ang ila nga palay buying strategies sa idalom sang Price Range Scheme agud malab-ot ang rice relief requests sang Department of Social Welfare and Development, Local Government Units, kag Legislators para sa distribution sa mga pamilya nga apektado sang kalamidad.
Gin-report man sang ahensya nga nakumpleto sini ang 95% sang ila nga buffer stocking target subong nga tuig.
NFA, nagpasalig sa publiko nga may bastante nga rice buffer stocks nga kinahanglanon sang relief agencies sa pihak sang holidays
Ginpasalig sang National Food Authority (NFA) ang publiko nga may yara sang bastante nga rice buffer stocks agud masakop ang mga kinahanglanon sang mga relief agencies sa tion nga may emerhensya sa pihak sang holidays.
Ginpaguwa sang NFA ang nasambit nga pahayag kasunod sang mga report angot sa aktibidad sang Bulkan Kanlaon kag ang na-monitor nga forecast sa intertropical convergence kag rain showers sa kalabanan nga bahin sang pungsod.
Ginpahayag man sang NFA nga ginpabaskog sini ang ila palay buying strategies sa idalum sang Price Range Scheme (PRICERS) agud masabat ang mga request sa rice relief sang Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD), Local Government Units (LGUs), kag mga Legislators para sa distribution sa mga apektado nga pamilya kag indibidwal sa calamity stricken areas.
Ginhatagan man pagtamod sang NFA nga natuman sini ang 95% sang ila buffer stocking target subong nga tuig.
Ang grains agency nagsiling nga ang ila karon nga buffer stock ang yara sa 5.661 million ka sako nga katumbas sang milled rice.
DA, nagpanawagan sa publiko nga mas pilion ang local fruits
Naghingyo ang Department of Agriculture (DA) sa consumers nga pilion ang lokal nga mga prutas sa baylo nga magbakal sang imported nga mga produkto.
Ini agud mabuligan ang local farmers kadungan sang ginalantaw nga pagsaka sang demand sa mga prutas para sa selebrasyon sang Bag-ong Tuig.
Suno kay Agriculture Assistant Secretary kag spokesman Arnel de Mesa, ginalauman na ang pagsaka sa retail price sang bilog nga mga prutas antes ang Enero 1.
Nakaandan na sang mga Pilipino ang pagpreparar sang at least 12 ukon 13 ka bilog nga mga prutas sa New Year’s eve bangud ginasimbolo sini ang maayo nga swerte kag mahamungayaon nga tuig.
Base sa monitoring sang ahensya sa Metro Manila markets, yara sa P60-P90 per kilo ang sandiya; pomelo, yara sa P80 and P250 per kilo; melon, yara sa P60 and P140 per kilo; avocado, yara sa P300 and P600 per kilo; mango, yara sa P150 and P300 per kilo; papaya, yara sa P60 and P90 per kilo.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginpasalig man ni De Mesa nga wala sang problemahon sa suplay sang manok, baboy, kag karne tubtub sa New Year celebration.
May ipatuman nga rollback sa presyo sang gatong sa antes ang New Year.
Suno sa Department of Energy, santo sa international trading data, ang retail sang gatong ang ginalauman nga magbarato sa masunod nga semana.
Gasoline – maganubo sang P0.30 tubtob P0.65 per liter Diesel – maganubo sang P0.30 tubtob P0.55 per liter Kerosene – maganubo sang P0.80 tubtob P0.90 per liter
Ianunsyo naman ang pinal nga price adjustments sa Lunes, Disyembre 30 kag ipatuman ini sa Martes, Disyembre 31.
Fuel surcharge, wala sang pagsaka sa imbukada sang 2025 — CAB
Sug-alawon sang mga Pinoy ang Bag-ong Tuig nga wala sang mangin pagsaka sa presyo sa flight tickets.
Santo ini sa gin-anunsyo sang Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB) nga wala sang pagbag-o sa fuel surcharge — buot silingon, ika-apat na nga sunod-sunod nga bulan na nga yara ini sa Level 4.
Base sa matrix, ang Level 4 nagakahulugan nga maka-kolekta ang airlines sang fuel surcharge nga P117 to P342 para sa domestic flights apang depende sa distansya.
Sa pihak nga bahin, mahimo naman masukot ang fuel surcharge nga P385.7 and P2,867.82 para sa international flights.
Ginapahanugutan ang airlines nga magsukot sang fuel surcharge agud nga makabangon man sila sa mahal nga petroleum costs nga mas nagataas pa gid bangud sa price fluctuations sa international market.
Ginatumod sang ahensya ang fuel surcharge base sa monthly average sang jet fuel kag mahimo magsaka ukon magnubo depende sa price movements.
BSP Survey: 61.3% sang mga respondents, suportado ang polymerization sang Philippine banknotes
Nagwa sa survey nga ginpatigayon sang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) nga kalabanan sa mga Filipinos ang nagasuporta sa polymerization sang Philippine banknotes.
Suno sa BSP, nagwa sa first quarter sang ila Consumer Expectation Survey nga 61.3% sang respondents ang nagasuporta sa polymerization sang Philippine banknotes, nga mas mataas sang 10.9% sang nagligad nga tuig.
Una diri, ginpagwa sang central bank ang bag-o nga polymer banknotes nga ginalakipan sang P500, P100, kag P50, sa diin makit-an ang mga imahe sang native kag protected species, mangin ang local weave designs.
Ang bag-o nga polymer banknote denominations ang mangin available sa limitado nga quantities sa Greater Manila Area subong nga Disyembre, apang mangin fully available sa first quarter sang 2025.
Corn import sang Pilipinas, magatimbuok pa sa 2025
Magataas ang iga-import nga mais sang Pilipinas sang 7.2 percent ukon pasaka sa 1.63 million metric tons (MMT) para sa marketing year (MY) 2024-2025 agud malab-ot ang nagataas man nga demand sang domestic animal feed industry.
Suno sa United States Department of Agriculture-Foreign Agricultural Service sa Manila, ginapanan-aw man nga ang corn production sang pungsod ang magatubo sang 0.4 percent ukon pasaka sa 8.15 million metric tons halin sa 8.119 million metric tons sang 2023-2024.
Gindugang pa diri nga ang amat-amat nga pagpadamo sang baboy samtang nagahulat sa commercialization sang African swine fever (ASF) vaccine ang makapataas pa gid sang demand para sa imported feed corn sa ulihi nga parte sang 2024-2025.
Samtang, ginsiling man sang ahensya nga magataas ang food, seed, kag industrial consumption sa 1.4 percent ukon magasaka sa 2.23 million metric tons halin sa 2.20 million metric tons bangud sa increased demand para sa corn-based food snacks kag byproducts, kaangay sang cornstarch, oil, kag syrup.
Disyemre 24, deadline sa paghatag sang 13 month pay — DOLE
Ginpahanumdom sang Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) sa mga tag-iya sang mga establisyemento sa pribado nga sektor nga subong nga adlaw, Disyembre 24, ang deadline sang paghatag sang 13th month pay.
Suno kay DOLE Secretary Bienvenido Laguesma, ma-abi-abi gid indi lamang sang ahensya kundi sang mga empleyado kun mahatag na ang amo nga benepisyo.
Ang paghatag sini nga kantidad ang pagpakita man suno sa opisyal nga may pag-ulikid ang employers sa ikaayo sang ila mga empleyado.
Sa ngalan sang espiritu sang Paskuwa, ginpahayag ni Laguesma nga wala siya nagapaandam sa employers kundi nagaapelar lamang nga ihingagaw na hatag ang 13th month pay kun wala pa ini na-release.
Pananglitan maglampas ang deadline, nagpahayag man ang DOLE secretary nga mahimo na ma-report sang employees sa ila ahensya kun wala pa gid nahatag ang benepisyo.
Ipatuman na bwas ang bigtime oil price hike sa bwas, Disyembre 23.
Ang estimated nga price adjustments amo ang mga masunod:
Suno kay Department of Energy-Oil Industry Management Bureau Assistant Director Rodela Romero, ang pagsaka sa presyo sang gatong ang naangot sa geopolitical climate sa Middle East kag atrasado nga output hikes sa Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Mais nga iga-import sang Pilipinas, ginalantaw nga mas magadamo pa sa 2025
Ginalantaw nga mas magadamo pa ang mais nga iga-import sang Pilipinas sa 2025 sandig sa projection sang US Department of Agriculture – Foreign Agricultural Service in Manila (USDA-FAS).
Nakasaad sa report nga ang corn imports halin Hunyo-Hulyo sa masunod nga tuig ang magadangat sa 1.63 million metric tons nga mas mataas sang halos 109,000 MT ipaanggid sa 1.521 million MT nga napagkit sang nagligad nga market year.
Gina-angot ini sang international agency sa pagtubo sang industriya sa poultry feed kag pet food.
Suno pa sa ahensya, ang gin-buhinan nga taripa sa corn imports ang nagahatag man sang suporta para sa sustained entry sang sini nga foreign stocks.
Matandaan nga sini nga tuig sang ginpaguwa ni President Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.
ang Executive Order 62 nga nagapalawig tubtub sa 2028 sang mas manubo nga corn tariff rates nga singko porsyento sa in-quota imports kag kinse porsyento sa out-quota imports.
Gina-estimate man sang USDA-FAS Manila nga ang total corn feed kag residual consumption ang magadangat sa 7.6 million MT subong nga market year nga mas mataas sang 200,000 MT halin sa anay na-rekord nga 7.4 million MT.
Gindugang man sang ahensya nga ang mahinay nga pag-recover sang industriya sang baboy bangud sa African Swine Fever (ASF) ang maka-amot man sa pagsaka sa demand sa corn feed.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang food, seed kag industrial consumption sang mais ang maga-saka man sa 2.23 million MT halin 2.2 million bangud sa mas mataas nga demand sa corn-based food snacks kag by-products kaangay sang cornstarch kag oil.
Presyo sang mga grocery items sa Noche Buena, nagtaas sang 5%
Nagtaas ang mga presyo sang mga grocery items sa Noche Buena lima ka porsyento.
Suno sa pinakaulihi nga mga inspeksyon sang Department of Agriculture (DA), ang presyo sang manok kag baboy nagtaas bangud sang mas mataas nga demand sa tion sang bakasyon.
sa publiko nga wala na sang ginapaabot nga pagtaas sang presyo antes sang katapusan sang tuig.
Suno kay Tiu Laurel, gina-imbestigaran pa nila kon ngaa “stubbornly” nga nagpabilin nga mataas ang presyo sang bugas, nga may P12 nga premium nga presyo.
Availabale naman ang mas barato nga bugas sa balor nga P40 tubtub P45 ang ginabaligya sang DA sa idalom sang programa nga Rice-for-All.
Bag-o nga polymer banknotes, iduso nga imbestigaran sa Senado
Maga-file sang resolution si Senate Minority Leader Aquilino Pimentel III agud ma-imbestigaran sa Senado ang bag-o lang ginpaguwa nga polymer banknotes kun sa diin ginpangkakas na ang imahe sang former presidents, mga baganihan, kag mga martir.
Suno kay Pimentel, madamo sang kinahanglan ipaathag ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) kaangot sa pag-desinyo sa bag-o nga banknotes sa baylo nga magtutok kuntani sila sa ila trabaho sa pagtapna sang inflation.
Gintawag sang senador nga buang-buang nga ideya ang pagpili sang “plastic” sa baylo sa “paper money” nga himo sa abaca kag cotton.
Sa iya igaduso nga resolution, ginalauman nga pangunahan sang Senate committee on banks, financial institutions and currencies ang pag-usisa sa amo nga isyu.
Bukadon man kun pila ang gingasto para sa bag-o nga desinyo kag hibaluon kun ano ang resulta sang trial run sang una nga ginpaguwa ang P1,000 nga polymer notes sang 2022.
Sa bag-o nga gin-release nga polymer notes, ang Philippine Eagle kag sampaguita ang nakabutang sa P1000 bill; Visayan spotted deer kag Acanthephippium mantinianum sa P500 bill; Palawan peacock-pheasant kag Ceratocentron fesselii sa P100 note; kag Visayan leopard cat kag Vidal’s lanutan sa P50 note.
Buot silingon, lakip sa ginpangdula nga mga imahe amo ang ila sang tatlo ka World War II martyrs sa P1000 bill nga sanday Chief Justice Jose Abad Santos, Brig.
Wala naman sanday late former presidents Manuel Roxas kag Sergio Osmeña nga yara anay sa P100 kag P50 bill.
Ang ginakabig pinaka-kontrobersyal nga gindula nga imahe sa P500 polymer note amo ang ila nanday late president Corazon Aquino kag iya bana nga si anay Senador Ninoy Aquino.
Ini nga mag-asawa ang makabig nga central figures sa pagtapos sang diktadurya ni anay President Ferdinand Marcos, Sr.
nga amay ni President Bongbong Marcos, Jr.
DTI, DOLE, istrikto nga naga-monitor sa baligyaanay kag pag-manufacture sang fireworks
Ini kasunod sang apelar halin sa legal firecracker manufacturers nga mas huguton sang otoridad ang pagpatuman sang pagsulundan batok sa pagbaligya sang iligal ukon wala na-certify nga mga produkto.
Pahayag sang bureau, sa kada may madakpan sila nga nagalapas nga manufacturers, maga-isyu sila sang cease and desist orders kag may yara pa sang special law nga amo naman ang iga-enforce ang mga pulis kaangot naman sa criminal aspect.
Nagpasalig man ang bureau nga nagapakig-angot sila sa Philippine National Police (PNP) kag sa local government units (LGUs) kaangot naman sa mga ordinansa kag designated areas para sa pag-display kag pagbaligya sang certified firecrackers.
Una naman nga nagpanawagan si DTI Secretary Cristina Aldeguer-Roque sa consumers nga magbakal lamang sang certified fireworks para sigurado nga safe subong nga holiday season.
Sa bahin naman sang Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE), ginpahanumdom sa mga establisyemento sa pyrotechnics industry nga istrikto nga magsunod sa Occupational Safety and Health Standards.
15 nga gin-isyu sini nga weekend, ginsiling nga katungdanan sang mga kumpaniya nga siguruhon nga safe ang ulubrahan para sa tanan nga workers.
Ginmanduan man ang regional directors sang ahensya nga magpasa sang lista sang mga establisyemento nga ila nga na-monitor sa Bureau of Working Conditions antes ang Enero 10, 2025.
BSP, ginpaathag ang pagkakas sang Philippine heroes sa bag-o nga polymer banknotes
Nagpaathag ang Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) sa pagkakas sang imahe sang Philippine heroes sa bag-o nga series sang polymer banknotes nga ginsapubliko sang nagligad lamang nga adlaw.
Sarah Severina Curtis, director sang BSP Banknotes and Securities Production Management Department, ang mga picture sang mga baganihan ang ginkakas sa bag-o nga P500, P100 kag P50 banknotes apang magapabilin man ang mga ini sa paper banknotes.
Sa baylo nga nawong sang mga baganihan, naka-feature sa bag-o nga banknotes ang mga sapat kag ang traditional local weave designs.
Lakip sa mga sapat amo ang Visayan spotted deer, Palawan peacock pheasant kag whale shark nga patimaan suno sa central bank sang rich biodiversity sa Pilipinas ukon ang presensya sang endemic kag endangered species sa Pilipinas.
Dagdag lang ito sa mga disenyo sa banknotes.
Dugang sini, kun i-feature ini nga endangered animals, mas magasangkad ang ihibalo sang publiko nga kinahanglan ang paghatag sang proteksyon sa palibot kag sa dunang-manggad.
Bangud sini nga mga pagbag-o sa bag-o nga banknotes, wala na ang imahe nanday former president Corazon Aquino kag bana sini nga si former Sen.
Benigno “Ninoy” Aquino Jr., amo man ang former presidents nga sanday Sergio Osmena kag Manuel Roxas.
Sang ginpamangkot kun ano ang matabo sa nawong ni Cory Aquino, sabat ni Curtis: “Dito sa polymer banknotes, hindi po natin siya nai-feature pero we want to ensure na circulating pa rin po ang ating papel na banknotes.
Una na nga nag-reklamo ang August Twenty-One Movement (ATOM) nga ini ang una nga tion sa maragtas nga indi mga baganihan ang naka-feature sa designs sang Philippine currency.
Mangin si Senator Francis “Chiz” Escudero ang nagpahayag man nga luyag sini nga magpa-athag ang BSP kun ngaa ginkakas ang historical figures sa kuwrata sang Pilipinas.
Ini nga bag-o nga polymer banknotes ang iga-release na sa limited quantities lamang umpisa sa Lunes, Disyembre 23.#
Uy James, paki sira bi mayo sang pwertahan.
Oist Elle! Lakat d bala! May pakita ko sa imo.
Picture sang gf ko. Gwapa ay?
Anong k lang man? Gwapa lang gid. Gina padayaw ko gid ni siya gani sa mga migo ko.
Ah yuga? Mayo eh. Ano na kamo ni kadugay?
Baw, nag patol man siya sa imo? Pila grado ka mata ya ni man? Pano mo ni siya gin aswang?
Aswang ka da. Siya naton nag aswang sakon. Siya ni ya nangaluyag sakon.
Tuod man. Amo ni ho: There was this girl that called me up if pwede kami ka date. I told her I’ll think about it. Syempre, pamahal mahal man ko daan. Gwapo mo.
Then that time, tupad ko si Crissy. Friends pa lang kami to that time. As soon as I hang up the phone siling ya “Why not date me instead?” Teh end of story eh.
Ayos na ya. La na duro gamo kag drama.
Teh diin siya subong?
She’s on a long vacation with relatives. Sige lang when she returns I’ll introduce you.
Hidlaw ka man ay?
So-so. Naanad naman ko layo siya. And oh! Gin sunlog ko siya last night sa phone. I told her about you and I said mas gwapa ka pa sa iya. Nangakig siya. Hambal ya “Do you like her?” Sabat ko, “Maybe.”
Ka gago sa imo noh? Why would you do that? Gin gamit mo pa ko.
It’s fun lang nga gaselos siya. Ok lang na a nga gin gamit ta ka. Wala man may ga gamit sa imo. Haha.
Pero tuod man Elle. Ngaa wala ka pa migo haw? Ngita bala.
Kag mag ano?
Mag ano eh…
I mean, para someone will take care of you.
I can take care of myself. Indi ko na kinanglan.
Baskog. Hadlok ka masakitan haw? Sa una man lang na ang sakit. Happy happy joy joy na na sa ulihe.
Ay ambot sa imo da. La gid ko kwaon sa imo. Amo man na japon. Mangita man na japon iban ang lalake.
Teh babae amo man na gani.
James, why do men cheat?
Coz indi na sila happy sa relationship kag daw las-ay na. What about women? Why do you cheat?
For the same reasons. And bored na. And maybe because of the thrill also. Masarap ang bawal.
Huo. Daw pareho lang na nga every meal mo everyday pareho imo sud-an. Daw masuka ka na.
So piliton mo japon kay kinanglan kay kanugon man huyangan. Bisan pan-os, ubos!
Diin mo na ginapanguha man? Pero ha, faithful ko ya sa miga ko. I cannot betray Crissy.
Ah sus! Guys always say that.
I’m not a bad guy Elle.
But I’m not a saint either.
I’m a man.
“I’m a man”. Huo na. Manyak manyakon ka man daan.
If I don’t have a girlfriend I will ask you out.
Pero indi eh. Crissy will kill me.
You shouldn’t.
Pati man siya ho. Haha Ambisyon todo Elle. Haha
Kapal mo. Daw luy-a lang gid chura mo.
Amo nalang ni ho. Buligan ta ka pangita ideal man mo.
No thank you.
Na bala! Abnormal ka karon ah! Gin tawo ka d para i-share mo blessings mo. Indi kay tago taguon mo imo grasya. Ano gani hambal sa ebanghilyo? “Kamo nga mga tao, sampawi inyo isig ka tawo, ilubong inyo kinatawo, para maka ubra kamo tao>” Oh teh?
Perv ka. Do you know that? Sa diin na ya nga ebanghilyo nagtuhaw?
Pila ka na gani? 23? Dasig dasiga basi ma biyaan ka sang last trip. Beinte tres? Dapat nakalimaka na ya. Pigaw haw?
James, abi tuluka ko. Himutari mayo.
Tarong! Daw chewing gum bala chura ko nga gina pasa pasahan sang mga lalake? Indi ko nay a gusto. Gusto ko isa lang and amo na na.
Shado man guro ka taas expectations mo. Gapangita ka perfect man? Ngaa haw? Perpekto ka haw?
Nag siling ko haw? And may right man ko ya mag pa taas expectations ko. We usually get less that what we have settled for. Why would I choose shit if I can have cake?
Umm… kung medyo law-ay law-ayon ka I would understand why you don’t have a bf. But gwapa ka man.
Bola bola tres pesos lang.
What I mean is, daw indi man gid halata nga nag halin ka sa amo. hahaha
Ah amo na gale ha?
Pati ah. Tuod man. Gwapa ka pro. You know what, feeling ko angayan ka kung long straight hair ka. Amo gid na mga type ko daan sa girl.
Good. I’ll keep it short then.
Pero that one already looks good on you. Dba laba laba ka buhok sang una? Pautdan mo haw?
Natak-an ko ah. Daw ma double ko sa Ju-on. Kung amo lang na permi, BORING! La gid bag-o. Pero lantawa bala dasig ni maglaba liwat.
Na ano ka?
Don’t you know that there’s a study that says that if dasig mag laba buhok mo, permi ka kuno gapaminsar sexual thoughts! Waaaaah. Nasa loob ang kulo!
Ginago eh! Pinalagpat.
HAHA You think about sex noh?
I do not! Ikaw guro. Daw sang san-o ka man lang nagpagunting daw naglaba naman ho.
Syempre ako pa ya. . Ano na nga gina basa mo man? Wow! Kiera Knightley. Dream girl. Daw ding ding galling ang tubang.
Suyaan. Why? What do you think about women with small breasts?
Oh! Definitely not you!
Bastos ka animal ka.
Indi bala. Basi mag laba nagid ni karon buhok ko.
Gani man. Ara na sa hawak mo ho.
So ano gid gina pangita mo sa guy haw?
The thing is, I’m not looking at all.
I don’t feel the need to have a boyfriend.
Because you want a girlfriend.
Type mo na guro and miga nga upod upod mo permi ay?
Do I look like a lesbian?
You’re not interested in guys.
What made you so sure?
Do you like somebody?
Nugay na. Sugiri ko bala.
Can you keep a secret?
Sin-o ngalan ko? Si James ni. Of course I know how to keep a secret.
Good. So can I.
Shado ka swabe. Ihambal na na bala. Sin-o na? Isa gid na sa mg amigo ko ay?
It’s none of your business.
Suplada. I’m making it my business!
Parabuligan ta ka meet sa iya.
I don’t need to.
Namian man siya sa imo haw?
Ambot ah. Wala guro.
Pano mo na mabal-an kung indi mo pagsugid sa iya?
I’m not that kind of girl.
Wala na ya sa pa kind kind of girl. Naton, hadlok ka lang ma reject. Ari ho, may isa ka nami nga balay. Dream house mo. Paglabay mo sa gwa, kita mo bukas ang pwertahan. Daw naga pang invite gid sa imo magsulod. Indi ka man lang mag tika to see what’s inside?
Tempting gid but indi na akon balay eh. So bisan bukas pa ang puerta, wala ko right magsulod kay indi man ko tagbalay. Basi tirohon pa ko sang tag-iya. Masal-an trespassing or kawatan.
Teh tika man lang kadali.
Ah basta, indi tanan nga pwertahan nga abri dapat sudlan. You don’t know what’s on the other side.
Okay. May point ka. But akon man lang, open your mind Elle. Take a risk.
If the risk is worth taking.
Teh ano gid problema mo haw? Okay man lang na pabalo mo feelings mo. At least give hints.
Indi na ah. Mahuy-an lang ko na karon.
Ka manol sa imo ah. Ang pa demure bala Elle, wala gid na gadaog.
Sigurado ka? Kag ngaa daw mapatay ka gid nga mag migo na ko? Daw ikaw pa nahadlok para sa akon. Are you afraid of something?
What the hell? Kung may nahadlok d, ikaw na. May miga na ko ya. Wala na ko dapat ikahadlok.
Are you saying that to me or to yourself?
Ambot sa imo. Tig-a ulo. Malay mo man, maybe he likes you too.
It doesn’t matter.
Maybe it does. Wala ka lang kabalo. Elle, lakat na ko dugay dugay.
Umm… teh okay ka lang d?
Lakat na ko guro. Umm… Just keep in mind that you’re a wonderful girl Elle. Really.
Okay thank you. I think you are a good guy James. Crissy is lucky to have you. Halong.
I love my girlfriend.
Dali lang gid bala! Nga-a amo ka na haw? !
Ano problema mo ya?
Ngaa kabudlay gid sa imo dal-on?
Dal-on? Ano abi mo sakon stuffed toy?
Dipuga abnormal ka!
Yuga mo eh!
Pareho lang ta.
Ano gid bala problema mo?!
Problema ko? I love you!!!
Teh problema gid na? I love you too!!!!
James, sirad-i bi anay mayo ang pwertahan…
Sang ginsuguran, gintuga sang Dios ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan.
Gintawag niya nga “duta” ang mamala nga lugar kag gintawag niya nga “dagat” ang natingob nga tubig. Nanamian ang Dios sa iya nakita.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Magtubo sa duta ang mga tanom: ang mga tanom nga may mga liso kag ang mga kahoy nga nagapamunga suno sa ila nga klase.” Kag nahimo ini.
Nagtubo sa duta ang tanan nga klase sang tanom, kag nanamian ang Dios sa mga tanom nga iya nakita.
Nag-abot ang kagab-ihon, pagkatapos ang kaagahon. Amo ato ang ikatatlo nga adlaw.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Matuga sa kalangitan ang mga butang nga may kasanag sa pagseparar sang adlaw kag sang gab-i, kag bilang palatandaan sang pag-umpisa sang mga panahon,
Magsiga sila sa kalangitan sa paghatag kasanag sa kalibutan.” Kag nahimo ini.
Gani nahimo ang duha ka dalagko nga mga butang nga may kasanag: ang mas dako nga magasanag kon adlaw, kag ang gamay nga magasanag kon gab-i. Nahimo man ang mga bituon.
Nag-abot ang kagab-ihon, pagkatapos ang kaagahon. Amo ato ang ikaapat nga adlaw.
Ang kalibutan sadto wala pa sing porma kag mahawan pa. Ang tubig nga nagatabon sa kalibutan nalikupan sang kadulom. Kag ang Espiritu sang Dios
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Magdamo ang nagkalain-lain nga sapat sa tubig, kag maglupad ang nagkalain-lain nga sapat
Gani ginhimo sang Dios ang dalagko nga mga sapat sa tubig, kag ang tanan nga klase sang sapat nga nagaestar sa tubig, kag ang tanan nga klase sang sapat nga nagalupad. Nanamian ang Dios sa iya nakita.
Kag ginbendisyunan niya ini nga mga sapat. Siling niya, “Magmuad kamo kag magdamo, kamo nga mga sapat sa tubig kag mga sapat nga nagalupad.”
Nag-abot ang kagab-ihon, pagkatapos ang kaagahon. Amo ato ang ikalima nga adlaw.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Magkabuhi ang nagkalain-lain nga klase sang sapat sa duta: mga sapat nga mahagop kag maila, mga dalagko kag magagmay.” Kag nahimo ini.
Ginhimo sang Dios ang ini nga mga sapat, kag nanamian ang Dios sa iya nakita.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Mahimo kita sang tawo nga kaanggid sa aton. Magagahom sila sa tanan nga klase sang mga sapat: ang nagalangoy, ang nagalupad, ang nagalakat, kag ang nagakamang.”
Gani gintuga sang Dios ang tawo, lalaki kag babayi, nga kaanggid sa iya.
Kag ginbendisyunan niya sila nga nagasiling, “Magmuad kamo kag magdamo para ang inyo mga kaliwat magalapta kag magagahom sa kalibutan. Kag gamhan ninyo ang tanan nga sapat.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Ginahatag ko sa inyo ang mga tanom nga may mga liso kag ang mga kahoy nga nagapamunga para inyo kaunon.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Magsanag!” Kag dayon may kasanag.
Kag ginahatag ko sa tanan nga sapat ang tanan nga hilamon kag dahon-dahon bilang pagkaon nila.” Kag natuman ini.
Gintan-aw sang Dios ang tanan niya nga ginpanghimo kag nanamian gid siya. Nag-abot ang kagab-ihon, pagkatapos ang kaagahon. Amo ato ang ikaanom nga adlaw.
Nanamian ang Dios sa kasanag nga iya nakita. Dayon ginseparar niya ang kasanag kag ang kadulom.
Gintawag niya nga “adlaw” ang kasanag kag gintawag niya nga “gab-i” ang kadulom. Nag-abot ang kagab-ihon, pagkatapos ang kaagahon. Amo ato ang una nga adlaw.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Matuga ang kahawaan nga magaseparar sa tubig sa duha ka lugar.”
Kag nahimo ini. Ginhimo sang Dios ang kahawaan nga nagaseparar sa tubig sa ibabaw kag sa tubig sa idalom.
Ini nga kahawaan gintawag sang Dios nga “kalangitan.” Nag-abot ang kagab-ihon, pagkatapos ang kaagahon. Amo ato ang ikaduha nga adlaw.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios, “Magtingob sa isa ka lugar ang tubig sa kalibutan para magguwa ang mamala nga lugar.” Kag nahimo ini.
Gani natapos tuga sang Dios ang kalangitan, ang kalibutan, kag ang tanan nga ara sa ila.
Sa Eden may suba nga nagailig, nga amo ang nagahatag sang tubig sa katamnan. Nagsanga ini sa apat ka suba.
Ang ngalan sang premiro nga suba amo ang Pishon. Nagailig ini sa bilog nga duta sang Havila, nga sa diin may mga bulawan.
Puro gid ang mga bulawan didto. Kag makita man didto ang malahalon nga pahamot nga malahalon nga pahamot nga bediliyum, kag ang malahalon nga malahalon nga bato nga onix.
Ang ngalan sang ikaduha nga suba amo ang Gihon. Nagailig ini sa bilog nga duta sang Cush.
Ang ngalan sang ikatatlo nga suba amo ang Tigris. Nagailig ini sa east sang Assyria. Kag ang ikaapat nga suba amo ang Euphrates.
Ginpaestar sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sa katamnan sang Eden ang tawo nga iya ginhimo para mag-atipan sini.
Kag ginsilingan niya siya, “Makakaon ka sang bunga sang bisan ano nga kahoy sa katamnan,
luwas lang sang bunga sang kahoy nga nagahatag sang ihibalo kon ano ang maayo kag ang malain. Kay sa tion nga kaunon mo ini, sigurado gid nga mapatay ka.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios, “Indi maayo nga nagaisahanon lang ang tawo, himuan ko siya sang kaupod nga magabulig sa iya kag bagay sa iya.”
Ginhimo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios halin sa duta ang tanan nga klase sang mga sapat nga nagaestar sa duta pati ang tanan nga klase sang mga sapat nga nagalupad. Dayon gindala niya sila didto sa tawo para tan-awon kon ano ang ipangalan niya sa ila. Kag kon ano ang tawag sang tawo sa ila amo na ina ang ila mga ngalan.
Natapos niya ini sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw, kag sa ikapito nga adlaw nagpahuway siya sa tanan niya nga obra.
Gani gin-ngalanan sang tawo ang mga sapat nga nagaestar sa duta pati ang mga sapat nga nagalupad. Pero wala gid sing bisan isa sa ila nga bagay nga mangin kaupod niya nga magabulig sa iya.
Gani ginpatulog sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios ang tawo sing mahamuok gid. Kag samtang nagakatulog siya, ginkuha sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios ang isa niya ka gusok kag ginkipot dayon ang ginkuhaan sini.
Ang gusok nga ginkuha sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sa lalaki ginhimo niya nga babayi, kag gindala niya siya sa lalaki.
kay ginkuha siya halin sa lalaki.
Amo ina ang rason nga bayaan sang lalaki ang iya amay kag iloy kag mag-upod sa iya asawa, kag sila nga duha mangin isa.
Sadto nga tion, bisan hublas sila nga duha, wala sila mahuya.
Ginbendisyunan niya ang ikapito nga adlaw kag ginkabig niya nga isa ka pinasahi nga adlaw, tungod kay sa sina nga adlaw nagpahuway siya matapos niya tuga ang tanan.
Sang paghimo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sang kalibutan kag sang kalangitan,
wala pa sa kalibutan ang mga ginakultibar nga mga tanom sa latagon, kay wala pa niya pagpaulana kag wala sing tawo nga magaatipan sang duta.
Pero bisan wala sing ulan, ang mga tuburan sa kalibutan amo ang nagapabasa sa duta.
Dayon ginhimo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios ang tawo halin sa duta. Ginhuypan niya sa ilong ang tawo sang ginhawa nga nagahatag sang kabuhi. Gani ang tawo nangin buhi nga tinuga.
Dayon naghimo ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sang katamnan sa Eden, sa east, kag didto niya ginpaestar ang tawo nga iya ginhimo.
Kag ginpatubo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios ang tanan nga klase sang mga kahoy nga manami tulukon kag ang ila mga bunga ang ila mga bunga manamit kaunon. Sa tunga sang katamnan may kahoy didto nga nagahatag sang kabuhi, kag may kahoy man didto nga nagahatag sang ihibalo kon ano ang maayo kag ang malain.
Karon, sa tanan nga maila nga sapat nga ginhimo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios, ang man-og amo ang labing maayo magpadihot. Isa sadto ka tion, ginpamangkot sang man-og ang babayi, “Matuod gid bala nga ginabawalan kamo sang Dios nga magkaon sang bisan ano nga bunga sang kahoy sa katamnan?”
Nagsabat ang lalaki, “Nabatian ko ikaw sa katamnan, gani nagpanago ako kay nahadlok ako tungod kay hublas ako.”
Nagpamangkot ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios, “Sin-o bala ang nagsiling sa imo nga hublas ka? Nagkaon ka bala sang bunga sang kahoy nga ginsiling ko sa imo nga indi mo pagkaunon?”
Nagsabat ang lalaki, “Ang babayi abi nga ginpaupod mo sa akon ginhatagan niya ako sang bunga sang sadto nga kahoy kag ginkaon ko.”
Ginpamangkot dayon sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios ang babayi, “Ngaa bala ginhimo mo ato?” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Gindayaan abi ako sang man-og. Amo ato nga nagkaon ako.”
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sa man-og, “Tungod nga ginhimo mo ini, ikaw lang gid sa tanan nga sapat ang magaagom sang sini nga sumpa: sa bilog mo nga kabuhi magakamang ka paagi sa imo tiyan, kag ang imo baba permi lang masudlan sang yab-ok.
Ikaw kag ang babayi magakontrahanay. Ang imo kaliwat kag ang iya kaliwat
Nagsiling man siya sa babayi, “Tungod sang imo ginhimo, dugangan ko ang imo pag-antos sa pagbusong kag ang imo kasakit sa pagbata. Pero sa pihak sina, handumon mo gihapon ang imo bana, kag magagahom siya sa imo.”
Nagsiling man siya sa lalaki, “Tungod kay nagpati ka sa imo asawa kag nagkaon sang bunga sang kahoy nga gindumili ko sa imo, pakamalauton ko ang duta. Gani sa bilog mo nga kabuhi magapangabudlay ka sing tudo-tudo para makakaon ka.
Magatubo sa duta ang tunukon nga mga tanom, kag magakaon ka sang mga gintanom sa uma.
Kinahanglan nga magpangabudlay ka sing tudo-tudo para makakaon ka, hasta nga magbalik ka sa duta nga amo ang imo ginhalinan. Tungod nga sa duta ka naghalin, gani sa duta ka man magabalik.”
Nagsabat ang babayi, “Makakaon kami sang bisan ano nga bunga sang kahoy diri sa katamnan,
Gin-ngalanan ni Adan
Dayon naghimo ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sang bayo nga halin sa panit sang sapat para kay Adan kag sa iya asawa.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios, “Karon ang tawo nangin pareho na sa aton nga nakahibalo kon ano ang maayo kag ang malain. Kinahanglan nga indi gid siya pagtugutan nga magkaon sang bunga sang kahoy nga nagahatag sang kabuhi, kay kon magkaon siya, magapabilin siya nga buhi hasta san-o.”
Gani ginpahalin siya sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sa katamnan sang Eden sa pagpanguma sang duta nga amo ang iya ginhalinan.
Sang nakahalin na ang tawo, nagbutang ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sang mga kerubin sa east sang katamnan sang Eden. Kag nagbutang man siya sang espada nga nagadabadaba kag nagatiyog para wala sing may makapalapit sa kahoy nga nagahatag sang kabuhi.
luwas lang sang bunga sang kahoy nga ara sa tunga sang sini nga katamnan. Kay nagsiling ang Dios nga indi gid kami magkaon sang bunga sang sina nga kahoy ukon bisan magtandog lang sini. Kay kon himuon namon ina, mapatay kami.”
Pero nagsiling ang man-og, “Indi matuod nga mapatay kamo!
Nagsiling ang Dios sina tungod kay nahibaluan niya nga kon kaunon ninyo ina, masanagan kamo, kag mangin pareho kamo sa iya nga nakahibalo kon ano ang maayo kag ang malain.”
Sang makita sang babayi nga ang kahoy manami tulukon kag ang iya mga bunga ang iya mga bunga manamit kaunon, kag tungod nga naghandom siya nga mangin maalam, nagkuha siya sang bunga kag nagkaon. Ginhatagan man niya ang iya bana kag nagkaon man siya.
Pagkatapos nila kaon, nakaintiendi sila kon ano ang maayo kag ang malain, kag natalupangdan nila nga hublas gali sila. Gani nagtambi-tambi sila sang mga dahon sang kahoy nga higera para itabon sa ila lawas.
Sang mabulubugnaw na sang hapon, nabatian nila nga nagalakat ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios sa katamnan. Gani nagpanago sila sa kakahuyan.
Pero gintawag sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios ang lalaki kag ginpamangkot, “Diin ka?”
Pagkatapos sadto, naghulid si Adan sa iya asawa nga si Eva kag nagbusong siya. Sang nakabata na si Eva, nagsiling siya, “Nakaangkon ako sang bata nga lalaki paagi sa bulig sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ngalanan ko siya nga Cain.”
Nagsiling dayon ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Cain, “Ano bala ang imo ginhimo? Ang dugo sang imo utod daw sa tingog nga nagapakitluoy nga silutan ko ang tawo nga nagpatay sa iya.
Tungod sang imo ginhimo, ginapakamalaot ko ikaw. Sugod subong indi ka na makapanguma sa duta nga nagsuyop sang dugo sang imo utod nga imo ginpatay.
Bisan magtanom ka pa, ang duta indi na magpatubas para sa imo. Kag wala ka na sing permanente nga elistaran, gani bisan diin ka na lang makadto.”
Nagsiling si Cain sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Tama gid ini kabug-at nga silot para sa akon.
Ginatabog mo ako subong sa sini nga duta kag sa imo presensya. Wala na ako sing permanente nga elistaran, gani bisan diin na lang ako makadto. Kag kon may makakita sa akon sigurado gid nga patyon niya ako.”
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Cain, “Indi ina matabo sa imo! Kay nagasiling ako nga ang bisan sin-o nga magpatay sa imo, balusan ko sing pito ka pilo.” Gani ginbutangan sang Ginoo Ginoo sing tanda si Cain para indi siya pagpatyon sang bisan sin-o nga makakita sa iya.
Dayon nagpalayo si Cain sa Ginoo Ginoo kag didto nag-estar sa duta sang Nod,
Karon, naghulid si Cain sa iya asawa. Nagbusong ang iya asawa kag nagbata sing lalaki kag gin-ngalanan nila nga Enoc. Nagtukod si Cain sang isa ka banwa kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Enoc pareho sa ngalan sang iya anak.
Si Enoc may anak man nga lalaki kag ang iya ngalan si Irad. Si Irad nga ini amay ni Mehuel; si Mehuel amay ni Metushael; kag si Metushael amay ni Lamec.
Si Lamec may duha ka asawa nga si Ada kag si Zila.
Si Abel nangin manugbantay sang mga karnero kag kanding, kag si Cain ya nangin mangunguma.
Si Ada nagbata kay Jabal nga amo ang ginhalinan sadtong mga tawo nga nagaestar sa mga tolda, nga nagaatipan sang mga sapat.
May utod si Jabal nga lalaki nga ang ngalan si Jubal, nga amo ang ginhalinan sang tanan nga manugtukar sang arpa kag plawta.
Si Zila nagbata man sing lalaki nga ang ngalan si Tubal Cain. Si Tubal Cain nga ini nagapanghimo sang tanan nga klase sang galamiton halin sa salsalon kag saway. May utod siya nga babayi nga si Naama.
kay ginsakit kag ginpilasan niya ako.
ka pilo ang balos sa tawo nga magpatay sa akon.”
Naghulid liwat si Adan kay Eva, kag nagbata si Eva sing lalaki. Nagsiling siya, “Ginhatagan liwat ako sang Dios sing anak nga lalaki bilang ilis kay Abel nga ginpatay ni Cain, gani ngalanan ko siya nga Set.”
Sang ulihi si Set may anak man nga lalaki nga iya gin-ngalanan nga Enosh. Sang panahon ni Enosh, nagsugod ang mga tawo tawag sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Isa sadto ka adlaw, naghalad si Cain sa Ginoo Ginoo halin sa iya patubas.
Si Abel iya nagkuha sang kamagulangan sa iya mga kasapatan kag gin-ihaw niya, kag ginhalad ang pinakamaayo nga parte sa Dios. Nalipay ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abel kag sa iya halad,
pero wala siya nalipay kay Cain kag sa iya halad. Kag tungod sini, nagkusmod si Cain kag puwerte gid ang iya kaakig.
Gani ginpamangkot siya sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ano bala ang naakigan mo? Ngaa nagakusmod ka?
Kon maayo lang ang imo ginahimo, kuntani malipayon ka.
Isa sadto ka adlaw, nagsiling si Cain kay Abel, “Dali, makadto kita sa uma.” Kag sang didto na sila, ginpatay ni Cain si Abel nga iya utod.
Dayon nagpamangkot ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Cain, “Diin na bala ang imo utod?” Nagsabat si Cain, “Ambot, wala ako kahibalo. Ngaa, ako bala ang manugbantay niya?”
Sang pagtuga sang Dios sa tawo, ginhimo niya siya nga kaanggid sa iya.
Matapos natawo si Kenan, nagkabuhi pa gid si Enosh sing 815 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 905.
Sang nagaedad na si Kenan sing 70 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Mahalalel.
Matapos natawo si Mahalalel, nagkabuhi pa gid si Kenan sing 840 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 910.
Sang nagaedad na si Mahalalel sing 65 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Jared.
Matapos natawo si Jared, nagkabuhi pa gid si Mahalalel sing 830 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 895.
Sang nagaedad na si Jared sing 162 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Enoc.
Matapos natawo si Enoc, nagkabuhi pa gid si Jared sing 800 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Gintuga niya ang lalaki kag babayi, kag ginpakamaayo niya sila kag gintawag nga “tawo.”
Napatay siya sa edad nga 962.
Sang nagaedad na si Enoc sing 65 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Metusela.
Sang nagaedad na si Metusela sing 187 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Lamec.
Matapos natawo si Lamec, nagkabuhi pa gid si Metusela sing 782 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 969.
Sang nagaedad na si Lamec sing 182 ka tuig, natawo ang isa niya ka anak nga lalaki.
Nagsiling siya, “Ining akon anak makabulig sa aton nga pagpangabudlay sa duta nga ginpakamalaot sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ngalanan ko siya nga Noe.”
Sang nagaedad si Adan sing 130 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga kaanggid sa iya. Gin-ngalanan niya siya nga Set.
Matapos natawo si Noe, nagkabuhi pa gid si Lamec sing 595 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 777.
Halin sa edad ni Noe nga 500, natawo ang iya mga anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Shem, Ham, kag Jafet.
Matapos natawo si Set, nagkabuhi pa gid si Adan sing 800 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 930.
Sang nagaedad na si Set sing 105 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Enosh.
Matapos natawo si Enosh, nagkabuhi pa gid si Set sing 807 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 912.
Sang nagaedad na si Enosh sing 90 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Kenan.
Sang ulihi nagdamo ang mga tawo sa kalibutan, kag nagkalatawo man man ang ila mga kabataan nga babayi.
May tatlo siya ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Shem, Ham, kag Jafet.
Sa atubangan sang Dios, malain gid ang mga tawo kag ang ila kalainan naglapta sa kalibutan.
Nakita sang Dios nga malain gid ang mga tawo sa kalibutan tungod kay ang ila ginahimo puro lang kalainan.
Gani nagsiling siya kay Noe, “Laglagon ko ang tanan nga tawo. Kay tungod sa ila, naglapta ang kalautan sa kalibutan. Laglagon ko sila kaupod sang kalibutan.
Gani ikaw Noe, maghimo ka sang barko
Himua nga ang iya kalabaon 450 feet, ang iya kasangkaron 75 feet, kag ang iya kataason 45 feet.
Atupan mo ang barko, kag butangan mo sang antad nga 18 inches ang dingding kag ang atop. Himua nga ang barko may tatlo ka panalgan. Butangi man sang puwertahan sa iya kilid.
Kay pabahaon ko ang kalibutan para malaglag ang tanan nga nagakabuhi. Mapatay ang tanan nga ara sa kalibutan.
Pero magahimo ako sang kasugtanan sa imo. Karon, magsulod ka sa barko upod ang imo asawa, mga anak, kag mga umagad.
Magpasulod ka man sang isa ka pares, lalaki kag babayi, sa kada klase sang mga sapat para mabuhi sila upod sa imo.
Nakita sang mga anak sang Dios
Duha sa kada klase sang tanan nga sapat ang magapalapit sa imo para mabuhi—ang mga sapat nga nagalupad, ang nagalakat, kag ang nagakamang.
Magdala ka man sang tanan nga klase sang pagkaon para sa inyo kag para man sa mga sapat.”
Gintuman ni Noe ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Dios sa iya.
Karon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ko pagtugutan nga mabuhi ang tawo sing malawig tungod kay tawo lang sila. Gani sugod subong ang tawo magakabuhi nga indi magsobra sa 120 ka tuig.”
Sang sadto nga tiyempo, kag bisan sang ulihi, may mga Nefilim
Sang nakita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ang ginahimo sang mga tawo sa kalibutan puro na lang kalautan, kag ang ila ginahunahuna permi malain,
naghinulsol siya nga ginhimo pa niya ang tawo sa kalibutan. Dako gid ang iya kasubo,
gani nagsiling siya, “Laglagon ko ang tanan nga tawo nga akon gintuga. Kag laglagon ko man ang tanan nga sapat sa duta pati ang mga sapat nga nagalupad, kay nagahinulsol ako nga ginhimo ko sila.”
Pero may isa ka tawo nga nakapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siya amo si Noe.
Si Noe matarong nga tawo. Siya lang ang nagkabuhi nga matarong sa iya nga tiyempo, kag malapit ang iya relasyon sa Dios.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Noe, “Magsulod ka sa barko upod sang imo bilog nga pamilya. Tungod kay sa tanan nga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon ikaw lang ang nakita ko nga matarong.
Kag pagkaligad sang pito ka adlaw, nagbaha sa kalibutan.
Nagaedad sadto si Noe sing 600 ka tuig. Kag sang ika-17 nga adlaw sang ikaduha nga bulan, nag-ulan sing puwerte gid kabaskog kag nag-awas ang tanan nga tuburan.
Kag nag-inulan sa kalibutan sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i.
Sang adlaw mismo nga nag-umpisa ang pag-ulan, nagsulod sa barko si Noe kag ang iya asawa kag ang tatlo nila ka anak nga sila ni Shem, Ham, kag Jafet kaupod sang ila mga asawa.
Kaupod man nila ang tanan nga klase sang sapat: ang nagalakat, ang nagakamang, kag ang nagalupad.
Nagtaas pa gid ang tubig hasta nga nalapawan ang tanan nga mataas nga mga bukid,
Magdala ka sang pito ka pares sa kada klase sang matinlo
kag hasta nga nagtaas pa gid ang tubig sing mga sobra 20 feet halin sa putokputokan sang pinakamataas nga bukid.
Gani nagkalamatay ang tanan nga may kabuhi—ang mga sapat nga nagalupad, nagalakat, nagakamang, kag ang tanan nga tawo.
Nagkalamatay ang tanan nga nagakabuhi sa duta.
Ginlaglag ang tanan nga tawo kag ang tanan nga sapat sa kalibutan. Si Noe lang kag ang iya mga kaupod sa sulod sang barko ang wala mapatay.
Nagbaha ang kalibutan sa sulod sang 150 ka adlaw.
Kag magdala ka man sang pito ka pares sa kada klase sang sapat nga nagalupad. Himuon mo ini para mabuhi sila sa kalibutan.
Kay pagkatapos sang pito ka adlaw halin subong, paulanan ko ang bilog nga kalibutan sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i, para magkalamatay ang tanan ko nga ginhimo.”
Gintuman ni Noe ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya.
Nagaedad si Noe sing 600 ka tuig sang nag-abot ang grabe gid nga baha sa kalibutan.
Nagsulod siya sa barko upod sang iya asawa, mga anak, kag mga umagad para indi sila magkalamatay sa baha.
Wala pagkalimti sang Dios si Noe kag ang iya mga kaupod nga mga sapat sa sulod sang barko. Gani ginpahuyop niya ang hangin sa kalibutan kag nag-amat-amat hubas ang tubig.
Ginpaligad anay ni Noe ang pito ka adlaw kag ginbuy-an niya liwat ang pating.
Nagbalik ang pating sang sirom na nga may lab-as nga dahon sang olibo sa iya tuktok. Gani nahibaluan ni Noe nga naghubas na ang tubig.
Ginpaligad liwat ni Noe ang pito pa gid ka adlaw kag ginbuy-an niya liwat ang pating, pero wala na ini nagbalik.
Nagaedad na si Noe sing 601 ka tuig. Kag sang nahauna nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, naghubas ang tubig. Ginkuha ni Noe ang tabon sa may barko kag nakita niya nga mala na ang duta.
Sang ika-27 nga adlaw sang ikaduha nga bulan, mala na gid ang duta sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Nagsiling dayon ang Dios kay Noe,
“Guwa na kamo tanan sa barko.
Kag paguwaa man ang tanan nga sapat para magmuad sila kag magdamo, kag maglapta sa kalibutan.”
Gani nagguwa si Noe upod ang iya asawa, mga anak nga lalaki kag mga umagad.
Nagguwa man ang tanan nga sapat: ang nagalakat, ang nagalupad, kag ang nagakamang. Nagainupod sila suno sa ila nga klase.
Gintakpan niya ang mga tuburan kag ginpauntat ang ulan.
Naghimo si Noe sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon nagkuha siya sang isa sa kada klase sang mga sapat nga matinlo
Sang napanimahuan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang kahamot sini, nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Indi ko na gid pagpakamalauton liwat ang duta tungod sang ginahimo sang tawo. Bisan pa nga nahibaluan ko nga makasasala ang tawo halin sang bata pa siya, indi ko na gid paglaglagon liwat ang tanan nga nagakabuhi pareho sang akon ginhimo sadto.
Samtang nagapadayon ang kalibutan, may panahon sang tigtalanom kag may tig-alani, may tigtulugnaw kag may tig-ilinit, may tingulan kag may tingadlaw, kag may adlaw kag may gab-i.”
Sige hubas ang tubig sa sulod sang 150 ka adlaw.
Kag sang ika-17 nga adlaw sang ikapito nga bulan, nabara ang barko sa kabukiran sang Ararat.
Padayon nga naghubas ang tubig. Kag sang nahauna nga adlaw sang ika-10 nga bulan, makita na ang putokputokan sang mga bukid.
Pagligad sang 40 pa gid ka adlaw, ginbuksan ni Noe ang bintana sang barko
kag ginbuy-an paguwa ang isa ka uwak. Kag ang ini nga uwak sige lang ang iya lupad-lupad pakadto-pabalik hasta sa paghubas sang tubig.
Ginbuy-an man ni Noe ang isa ka pating para mahibaluan niya kon naghubas na ang tubig,
pero wala sing may mahapunan ang pating tungod kay natabunan pa sang tubig ang bilog nga kalibutan. Gani nagbalik na lang ang pating kay Noe sa barko. Ginpahapon ni Noe ang pating sa iya kamot kag ginpasulod sa barko.
Karon, ginbendisyunan sang Dios si Noe kag ang iya mga anak kag ginsilingan, “Magpamata kamo para magdamo kamo kag maglapta sa kalibutan.
Kon paguwaon ko ang mga panganod kag magpakita ang balangaw,
dumdumon ko dayon ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo kag sa tanan nga klase sang sapat, nga indi na gid magbaha liwat sa paglaglag sang tanan nga nagakabuhi.
Kon magguwa ang balangaw sa mga panganod, dumdumon ko dayon ang akon wala sing katapusan nga kasugtanan sa tanan nga klase sang sapat sa kalibutan.
Ang balangaw amo ang tanda sang akon kasugtanan sa tanan nga nagakabuhi sa kalibutan.”
Amo ini ang mga anak ni Noe nga kaupod niya sa barko: si Shem, si Ham, kag si Jafet. (Si Ham amo ang amay ni Canaan.)
Ini sila nga tatlo amo ang ginhalinan sang tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan.
Mahadlok sa inyo ang tanan nga sapat: ang nagalakat, ang nagalupad, ang nagakamang, kag ang nagalangoy. Kamo ang magagahom sa ila tanan.
Si Noe isa ka mangunguma kag siya amo ang una nga nagtanom sang ubas.
Sang isa ka tion, nag-inom siya sang bino kag nahubog siya. Natulugan siya nga hublas sa sulod sang iya tolda.
Karon, si Ham nga amay ni Canaan nagsulod sa tolda, kag nakita niya nga hublas ang iya amay. Gani nagguwa siya kag ginsugiran niya ang duha niya ka utod.
Nagkuha si Shem kag si Jafet sang panapton kag ginsablay nila sa ila abaga, dayon naglakat sila nga nagaisol pasulod sa tolda kag gintabunan nila ang ila amay. Wala gid sila nagbalikid tungod kay indi nila gusto nga makita ang pagkahublas sang ila amay.
Sang naumpawan na si Noe sa iya kahulugbon, kag pagkahibalo niya kon ano ang ginhimo sang iya kamanghuran nga anak,
Mangin kubos ka nga ulipon sang imo mga utod.”
Kabay pa nga mangin ulipon ni Shem si Canaan.
Kag kabay pa nga mangin ulipon man ni Jafet si Canaan.”
Nagkabuhi pa gid si Noe sing 350 ka tuig pagkatapos sang grabe gid nga baha.
Napatay siya sa edad nga 950.
Ginahatag ko ini nga mga sapat sa inyo bilang pagkaon, subong nga ginhatag ko sa inyo ang mga tanom bilang pagkaon.
Pero indi gid ninyo pagkaunon ang sapat nga sang pagpatay ang dugo wala makaguwa, tungod kay ang dugo simbolo sang kabuhi.
Pagasukton ko gid ang bisan sin-o nga magpatay sa inyo, bisan pa ang mga sapat. Pagasukton ko ang bisan sin-o nga magpatay sa iya isigkatawo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magpatay sa iya isigkatawo dapat pagapatyon man sang iya isigkatawo. Kay ang tawo ginhimo sang Dios nga kaanggid sa iya.
Karon, magpamata kamo para magdamo kamo kag maglapta sa kalibutan.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Dios kay Noe kag sa iya mga anak,
Amo ini ang estorya parte sa mga pamilya sang mga anak ni Noe nga sila ni Shem, Ham, kag Jafet. Nagkalatawo ang ila mga anak pagkatapos sang grabe gid nga baha.
Ang una nga ginharian nga gin-gamhan ni Nimrod amo ang Babilonia, Erec, Acad, kag Calne. Ini sila tanan sakop sang Shinar.
Halin sa sadto nga mga lugar nagkadto siya sa Assyria kag gintukod niya ang Nineve, Rehobot Ir, Cala,
kag Resen nga ara sa tunga-tunga sang Nineve kag sang Cala nga isa ka bantog nga banwa.
Si Mizraim amo ang ginhalinan sang mga Ludhanon, Anamnon, Lehabnon, Naftunon,
Patrusnon, Caslunon, kag sang mga Caftornon
Si Canaan amo ang amay ni Sidon kag ni Het.
Si Canaan amo man ang ginhalinan Si Canaan amo man ang ginhalinan sang mga Jebusnon, Amornon, Girgashnon,
Hivhanon, Arkhanon, Sinhanon,
Sang ulihi naglapta ang mga kaliwat ni Canaan.
Ang border sang ila kadutaan nagahalin sa Sidon pakadto sa Gerar hasta sa Gaza, kag nagalambot sa Sodom, Gomora, Adma, Zeboyim, hasta sa Lasha.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jafet amo sila ni Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshec, kag Tiras.
Amo ini sila ang mga kaliwat ni Ham. Ang kada pamilya nila nagaestar sa ila kaugalingon nga lugar nga sakop sang ila nasyon, kag may kaugalingon sila nga lingguahe.
Si Shem nga magulang ni Jafet amo ang ginhalinan sang tanan nga Hebreo.
Ang iya mga anak nga lalaki amo sila ni Elam, Ashur, Arfaxad, Lud, kag Aram.
Ang mga anak ni Aram amo sila ni Uz, Hul, Geter, kag Meshec.
Si Arfaxad amay ni Shela. Si Shela amay ni Eber.
May duha ka anak nga lalaki si Eber: ang isa gin-ngalanan nga Peleg, tungod kay sang iya panahon ang mga tawo sa kalibutan nagabinahin-bahin; ang ngalan sang iya utod amo si Joktan.
Si Joktan amo ang amay nila ni Almodad, Shelef, Hazarmavet, Jera,
Hadoram, Uzal, Dikla,
Obal, Abimael, Sheba,
Ofir, Havila, kag Jobab. Sila tanan amo ang mga anak ni Joktan.
Ang mga anak ni Gomer amo sila ni Ashkenaz, Rifat, kag Togarma.
Ang kadutaan nga ginaestaran nila nagahalin sa Mesha kag nagapakadto sa Sefar, sa kabukiran sa east.
Amo ini sila ang mga kaliwat ni Shem. Ang kada pamilya nila nagaestar sa ila kaugalingon nga lugar nga sakop sang ila nasyon, kag may kaugalingon sila nga lingguahe.
Amo ato tanan ang mga kaliwat sang mga anak ni Noe. Ini sila ara sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon. Tungod sa ila, natukod ang mga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan pagkatapos sang grabe gid nga baha.
Ang mga anak ni Javan amo sila ni Elisha, Tarshish, Kitim, kag Dodanim.
Sila amo ang ginhalinan sang mga tawo nga nagaestar sa mga lugar nga malapit sa dagat kag sa mga isla. Ang kada pamilya nila nagaestar sa ila kaugalingon nga lugar nga sakop sang ila nasyon, kag may kaugalingon sila nga lingguahe.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Ham amo sila ni Cush, Mizraim,
Ang mga anak ni Raama amo si Sheba kag si Dedan.
May isa pa ka anak si Cush nga ang iya ngalan si Nimrod. Si Nimrod nga ini nangin gamhanan nga tawo sa kalibutan.
Maayo gid siya nga mangangayam sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani may hulubaton nga nagasiling, “Pareho ka kay Nimrod nga maayo gid nga mangangayam sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Sang una isa lang ka lingguahe ang ginagamit sang tanan nga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Duha ka tuig pagkatapos sang grabe gid nga baha, sang nagaedad si Shem sing 100 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Arfaxad.
Matapos natawo si Arfaxad, nagkabuhi pa gid si Shem sing 500 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Sang nagaedad na si Arfaxad sing 35 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Shela.
Matapos natawo si Shela, nagkabuhi pa gid si Arfaxad sing 403 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Sang nagaedad na si Shela sing 30 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Eber.
Matapos natawo si Eber, nagkabuhi pa gid si Shela sing 403 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Sang nagaedad na si Eber sing 34 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Peleg.
Matapos natawo si Peleg, nagkabuhi pa gid si Eber sing 430 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Sang nagaedad na si Peleg sing 30 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Reu.
Matapos natawo si Reu, nagkabuhi pa gid si Peleg sing 209 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Samtang nagasaylo ang mga tawo sang elistaran pa-east, nakaabot sila sa isa ka patag sa duta sang Shinar, kag didto sila nag-estar.
Sang nagaedad na si Reu sing 32 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Serug.
Matapos natawo si Serug, nagkabuhi pa gid si Reu sing 207 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Sang nagaedad na si Serug sing 30 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Nahor.
Matapos natawo si Nahor, nagkabuhi pa gid si Serug sing 200 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Sang nagaedad na si Nahor sing 29 ka tuig, natawo ang iya anak nga lalaki nga si Tera.
Matapos natawo si Tera, nagkabuhi pa gid si Nahor sing 119 ka tuig kag nadugangan pa gid ang iya kabataan.
Halin sa edad ni Tera nga 70, natawo ang iya mga anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Abram, Nahor, kag Haran.
Si Tera amay nila ni Abram, Nahor, kag Haran. Si Haran amay ni Lot.
Napatay si Haran didto sa Ur nga sakop sang mga Kaldeanhon,
Nagpangasawa si Abram kay Sarai, kag si Nahor nagpangasawa kay Milca. Ang amay ni Milca kag sang iya utod nga si Isca amo si Haran.
Si Sarai indi makabata kay baw-as siya.
Naghalin si Tera sa Ur nga sakop sang mga Kaldeanhon. Kaupod niya ang iya anak nga si Abram, ang iya umagad nga si Sarai, kag ang iya apo nga si Lot nga anak ni Haran. Pakadto sila kuntani sa Canaan, pero pag-abot nila sa Haran didto na lang sila nag-estar.
Didto napatay si Tera sa edad nga 205.
Siling niya, “Ini nga mga tawo nagaugyon kag may isa lang sila ka lingguahe. Kag ining ila ginahimo umpisa pa lang sang ila pa gid nga pagahimuon. Sa indi madugay himuon nila ang bisan ano nga gusto nila himuon.
Gani dali, magpasilabot kita. Lain-lainon ta ang ila lingguahe para indi sila mag-intiendihanay.”
Gani ginpalapta sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog nga kalibutan kag nauntat ang ila pagtukod sang siyudad.
Ini nga siyudad gintawag nga Babilonia
Karon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abram, “Bayai ang imo nasyon, mga paryente, kag ang pamilya sang imo amay, kag magkadto ka sa lugar nga akon itudlo sa imo.
Pero may puwerte nga gutom sa Canaan, gani nagderetso si Abram sa Egypt para didto lang anay mag-estar.
Sang manug-abot na sila sa Egypt, nagsiling si Abram sa iya asawa, “Sarai, guwapa ka nga babayi.
Kon makita ka sang mga Egyptohanon masiling sila nga asawa ko ikaw, gani patyon nila ako kag ikaw ya indi.
Mas maayo pa siguro nga silingon mo sila nga mag-utod kita
Gani pag-abot nila sa Egypt, nakita sang mga Egyptohanon nga guwapa gid si Sarai.
Kag sang makita siya sang mga opisyal sang hari,
Tungod kay Sarai, maayo gid ang pagtratar sang hari kay Abram kag ginhatagan pa siya sang mga karnero, kanding, baka, lalaki kag babayi nga mga donkey, camel, kag mga ulipon nga lalaki kag babayi.
Pero ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang makahalalit nga balatian ang hari kag ang mga sinakpan niya sa palasyo tungod kay Sarai.
Gani, ginpatawag niya si Abram kag ginpamangkot, “Ano bala ining ginhimo mo sa akon? Ngaa wala ka magsugid nga asawa mo gali siya?
Ngaa nagsiling ka nga mag-utod kamo? Ti kundi ginkuha ko siya nga mangin akon asawa. Karon, ari ang imo asawa, kuhaa siya kag maglakat kamo!”
Paagi sa imo, madamo ang makabaton sang pagpakamaayo.
Dayon nagsugo ang hari sa iya mga tinawo nga pahalinon na sila. Gani gindala nila si Abram paguwa sa sadto nga lugar kag ginpahalin upod ang iya asawa kag dala ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
Pakamaayuhon ko ang tanan nga katawhan sa kalibutan paagi sa imo.”
nagpadayon sila hasta nga nakalambot sila sa dako nga kahoy
Dayon nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abram kag nagsiling sa iya, “Amo ini nga duta ang ihatag ko sa imo mga kaliwat.”
Halin didto, nagsaylo sila sa bukid sa east sang Betel, kag didto sila nagpatindog sang tolda, sa tunga-tunga sang Betel kag Ai sa tunga-tunga sang Betel kag Ai . Ang Betel sa west kag ang Ai sa east. Naghimo man didto si Abram sang halaran kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang ulihi nagsaylo naman sila. Sige ang ila panglakaton pakadto sa Negev.
Halin sa Egypt, nagkadto si Abram sa Negev upod ang iya asawa kag dala ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang, kag nag-upod man sa ila si Lot.
Nagtan-aw si Lot sa palibot kag nakita niya nga bugana sang tubig ang Kapatagan sang Jordan hasta sa Zoar, pareho sang katamnan sang Ginoo Ginoo
Gani ginpili ni Lot ang bilog nga Kapatagan sang Jordan sa east. Sa amo nga paagi nagbulagay si Lot kag si Abram.
Si Abram nagpabilin sa Canaan samtang si Lot iya didto sa mga banwa sang kapatagan. Nagpatindog si Lot sang iya mga tolda malapit sa Sodom.
Ang mga tawo sa Sodom tama gid ka makasasala. Puwerte gid ang ila pagpakasala kontra sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang nakahalin na si Lot, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abram, “Halin sa imo ginatindugan tan-awa sing maayo ang imo palibot.
Ang tanan nga duta nga malambot sang imo panulok ihatag ko sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat, kag mangin inyo ina hasta san-o.
Hatagan ko ikaw sing madamo nga kaliwat nga ang ila kadamuon pareho sa yab-ok. Ang yab-ok indi maisip, gani ang imo mga kaliwat indi man maisip.
Lakat ka kag libuta ang bilog nga duta kay ihatag ko ina tanan sa imo.”
Gani ginhalin ni Abram ang iya mga tolda, kag didto siya nag-estar malapit sa dalagko nga mga kahoy
Manggaranon na kaayo si Abram; madamo na ang iya kasapatan, pilak, kag bulawan.
Halin sa Negev, nagsaylo-saylo sila hasta nga nakabalik sila sa lugar nga ila anay ginpatindugan sang tolda. Ini nga lugar ara sa tunga-tunga sang Betel kag Ai.
Diri man sila una nga nagpatindog sang halaran. Sa liwat nagsimba didto si Abraham sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Si Lot nga nagaupod man kay Abram kon diin siya magkadto may iya man nga mga kasapatan kag mga tolda.
Kag tungod kay madamo na ang ila kasapatan kag iban pa nga mga pagkabutang, indi sila puwede nga magtingob estar sa isa ka lugar. Ang palahalban
Tungod sini, nag-ilinaway ang mga manugbantay sang ila mga kasapatan. (Sadto nga panahon ang mga Canaanhon kag mga Periznon nagaestar pa sa sadto nga duta.)
Gani nagsiling si Abram kay Lot, “Kita kag ang aton mga tinawo indi dapat mag-ilinaway, kay magparyentihanay kita.
Ang maayo pa, mabulagay na lang kita tungod madamo pa man sang lugar nga puwede sayluhan. Ikaw ang magpili kon diin nga parte sang duta ang imo gusto. Kon mapawala ka, mapatuo ako; kon mapatuo ka, mapawala ako.”
Sang sadto nga tiyempo, si Haring Amrafel sang Shinar, si Haring Arioc sang Elasar, si Haring Kedorlaomer sang Elam, kag si Haring Tidal sang Goyim
Karon, ang Kapatagan sang Sidim may madamo nga buho nga ginakuhaan sang aspalto. Kag sang magpalagyo ang hari sang Sodom kag sang Gomora upod ang ila mga tinawo, nahulog ang iban sa ila sa mga buho, kag ang iban nakapalagyo sa mga bukid.
Karon, may isa nga nakapalagyo kag nagpanugid kay Abram nga Hebreo parte sa natabo. Si Abram sadto didto nagaestar malapit sa dalagko nga mga kahoy ni Mamre nga Amornon. Si Mamre nga ini kag ang iya mga utod nga si Eshcol kag si Aner may kasugtanan kay Abram nga magdampiganay sila.
Pagkabati ni Abram nga ginbihag ang iya hinablos, gintipon niya dayon ang iya 318 ka tinawo nga masaligan, nga natawo sa iya kampo. Ginlagas nila ang apat ka hari hasta sa Dan.
Pagkagab-i, gintunga ni Abram ang iya mga tinawo kag ginsalakay nila ang ila mga kaaway, kag napierdi nila ini. Ang iban nga nakapalagyo ginlagas nila hasta sa Hoba, sa north sang Damascus.
Nabawi nila ang tanan nga pagkabutang nga gin-agaw sang mga kaaway. Nabawi man nila si Lot kag ang iya mga pagkabutang pati ang mga babayi kag ang iban pa nga mga katawhan.
Sang pagpuli na ni Abram, matapos nila nga napierdi si Kedorlaomer kag ang iya kaupod nga mga hari, ginsugata siya sang hari sang Sodom sa Kapatagan sang Shave (nga ginatawag man nga Kapatagan sang Hari).
Ginsugata man siya ni Melkizedek nga hari sang Salem kag pari sang Labing Mataas nga Dios. May dala si Melkizedek nga tinapay kag ilimnon.
nga naghimo sang langit kag sang duta.
nagpakig-away kontra kay Haring Bera sang Sodom, Haring Birsha sang Gomora, Haring Shinab sang Adma, Haring Shemeber sang Zeboyim, kag sa hari sang Bela nga ginatawag man nga Zoar.
Dayon ginhatag ni Abram kay Melkizedek ang ikanapulo sang tanan nga butang nga iya nakuha sa inaway nga butang nga iya nakuha sa inaway .
Karon, nagsiling ang hari sang Sodom kay Abram, “Imo na lang ang tanan ko nga mga pagkabutang nga nabawi mo, pero iuli lang sa akon ang tanan ko nga mga tinawo.”
Pero nagsabat si Abram, “Ginasumpa ko sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga amo ang naghimo sang langit kag sang duta,
nga indi gid ako magkuha sang bisan ano sa imo pagkabutang, bisan hilo ukon higot sang sandalyas, para indi ka makasiling nga ikaw ang nagpamanggaranon sa akon.
Indi ako magbaton sang bisan ano para sa akon kaugalingon. Ang kabigon ko lang nga nabaton ko amo ang ginkaon sang akon mga tinawo, pero tuguti ang akon mga kaupod nga sila ni Aner, Eshcol, kag Mamre sa pagkuha sang ila parte sa mga butang nga nakuha sa inaway sa mga butang nga nakuha sa inaway .”
Nagtipon ining lima ka hari upod ang ila mga soldado didto sa Kapatagan sang Sidim nga ginatawag subong nga Patay nga Dagat.
Ini nga mga hari ginsakop anay ni Kedorlaomer sa sulod sang 12 ka tuig, pero sang ika-13 nga tuig nagrebelde sila kontra sa iya.
Kag sang ika-14 nga tuig, gindaog ni Kedorlaomer kag sang iya mga kadampig nga mga hari ang mga Refaimnon sa Ashterot Karnaim, ang mga Zuzhanon sa Ham, ang mga Emhanon sa kapatagan sang Kiriataim,
kag ang mga Horhanon sa kabukiran sang Seir hasta sa El Paran nga malapit sa kamingawan.
Halin didto, nagbalik sila kag nakaabot sa En Mishpat nga ginatawag subong nga Kadesh. Kag gin-agaw nila ang tanan nga kadutaan sang mga Amaleknon kag sang mga Amornon nga nagaestar sa Hazazon Tamar.
Karon, gintipon sang mga hari sang Sodom, Gomora, Adma, Zeboyim, kag Bela ang ila mga soldado didto sa Kapatagan sang Sidim
kag nagpakig-away sila kontra kay Haring Kedorlaomer sang Elam, Haring Tidal sang Goyim, Haring Amrafel sang Shinar, kag kay Haring Arioc sang Elasar—lima ka hari kontra sa apat ka hari.
Pagkatapos sadto, naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abram paagi sa isa ka palanan-awon. Siling niya, “Abram, indi ka magkahadlok tungod kay apinan ko ikaw kag hatagan sang dako nga balos.”
Gani gindala ini tanan ni Abram sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon ginpamihak ini ni Abram kag ginplastar nga nagaatubangay ang kada pihak. Ang tukmo lang kag ang pating ang wala niya pagpihaka.
Naghapon sa pinihak nga mga sapat ang mga pispis nga nagapangaon sang patay, pero gintabog sila ni Abram.
Sang manugsalop na ang adlaw, natulugan sing mahamuok si Abram kag may dako nga kahadlok nga nag-abot sa iya.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Sigurado gid nga ang imo mga kaliwat mangin pangayaw sa iban nga lugar. Mangin ulipon sila didto kag pintasan sa sulod sang 400 ka tuig.
Pero silutan ko ang nasyon nga magaulipon sa ila. Pagkatapos magahalin ang imo mga kaliwat sa sadto nga nasyon nga may dala nga madamo nga manggad.
Pero kon parte sa imo Abram, palawigon ko ang imo kabuhi kag mapatay ka sa katigulangon nga may kalinong.
Magaligad anay ang apat ka henerasyon antes makabalik ang imo mga kaliwat diri, tungod kay indi pa tuman ang pagpakasala sang mga Amornon para silutan sila kag pahalinon sa sini nga duta.”
Sang nakasalop na ang adlaw kag nagdulom na, hinali lang nga may nakita si Abram nga kolon nga nagaaso kag sulo nga nagadabdab, nga nagaagi sa tunga sang mga pinihak nga mga sapat.
Sa sina gid nga adlaw, naghimo ang Ginoo Ginoo sang kasugtanan kay Abram. Siling niya, “Ihatag ko sa imo mga kaliwat ini nga duta nga halin sa suba sang Egypt pakadto sa dako nga suba nga amo ang Euphrates.
Ini nga duta amo subong ang ginaestaran sang mga Kenhanon, Keniznon, Kadmonhon,
Pero nagsiling si Abram, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , ano bala ang pulos sang imo balos sa akon kay hasta subong wala man ako sing bata. Ang manunubli ko amo gid lang si Eliezer nga taga-Damascus.
Hithanon, Periznon, Refaimnon,
Amornon, Canaanhon, Girgashnon, kag mga Jebusnon.”
Tungod kay wala mo ako paghatagi sang bata, si Eliezer nga isa sang akon mga suluguon amo na lang ang magapanubli sang akon mga pagkabutang.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Indi si Eliezer ang magapanubli sang imo mga pagkabutang kundi ang imo gid mismo nga bata.”
Dayon gindala siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa guwa kag ginsilingan, “Tan-awa bala ang mga bituon sa langit; isipa kon maisip mo. Pareho man sina kadamo ang imo mangin kaliwat.”
Nagtuo si Abram sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag tungod sang iya pagtuo ginpakamatarong siya.
Nagsiling pa gid siya kay Abram, “Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagsugo sa imo sa paghalin sa Ur nga sakop sang mga Kaldeanhon
Pero nagsiling si Abram, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , paano ko mahibaluan nga maangkon ko ini?”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Dal-i ako diri sang isa ka bataon nga babayi nga baka, isa ka babayi nga kanding, kag isa ka lalaki nga karnero, nga ang kada isa tatlo ka tuig ang edad. Kag magdala ka man sang isa ka pating kag isa ka tukmo.”
Si Sarai nga asawa ni Abram indi makabata. May ulipon siya nga babayi nga Egyptohanon nga ang ngalan si Hagar.
Dayon nagsiling pa gid ang anghel, “Padamuon ko gid ang imo kaliwat nga ang ila kadamuon indi maisip.
Nagabusong ka, kag sa indi madugay magabata ka sing lalaki. Ngalanan mo siya nga Ishmael,
Pero ang imo anak magakabuhi nga pareho sa isa ka maila nga donkey. Kontrahon niya ang tanan, kag ang tanan magakontra sa iya. Bisan ang iya mga paryente kontrahon niya.”
Gintawag ni Hagar ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpakighambal sa iya nga “Dios nga Nakakita,” kay siling niya, “Nakita ko gid bala ang Dios nga nakakita sa akon kag sa gihapon buhi ako?”
Amo ina nga ang tuburan nga didto sa tunga sang Kadesh kag Bered gintawag nga Beer Lahai Roi.
Nagbalik si Hagar kay Sarai, Nagbalik si Hagar kay Sarai, kag sang ulihi nagbata siya sing lalaki. Gin-ngalanan ni Abram ang bata nga Ishmael.
Ang edad ni Abram sang natawo si Ishmael 86 ka tuig.
Nagsiling si Sarai kay Abram, “Tungod nga wala nagtugot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga makabata ako, maayo pa siguro nga maghulid ka sa akon ulipon nga babayi kay basi pa lang makabaton kita sang bata paagi sa iya.” Nagsugot si Abram sa ginsiling sang iya asawa.
Gani ginhatag ni Sarai si Hagar kay Abram para mangin iya asawa. (Natabo ini matapos nakaestar si Abram sa Canaan sing napulo ka tuig.)
Pagkahibalo ni Hagar nga nagabusong siya, ginpakanubo niya si Sarai.
Tungod sini, nagsiling si Sarai kay Abram, “Karon nga nagabusong na si Hagar ginapakanubo na niya ako. Ikaw ang dapat basulon sini. Gintugyan ko siya sa imo. Ang Ginoo Ginoo na ang maghukom kon sin-o sa aton ang husto.”
Nagsabat si Abram, “Kon amo sina, ibalik ko siya sa imo bilang ulipon kag pagusto ka kon ano ang himuon mo sa iya.” Umpisa sadto tama na kalain ang pagtratar ni Sarai kay Hagar, gani sang ulihi naglayas na lang siya.
Nakita sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo si Hagar didto sa tuburan sa kamingawan. Ang tuburan nga ini malapit sa dalan pakadto sa Shur.
Nagpamangkot ang anghel sa iya, “Hagar, ulipon ni Sarai, diin ka bala naghalin kag diin ka makadto?” Nagsabat siya, “Naglayas ako sa akon ama nga si Sarai.”
Nagsiling ang anghel sa iya, “Balik ka sa imo ama kag magpasakop ka sa iya.”
Sang nagaedad si Abram sing 99 ka tuig, nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya kag nagsiling, “Ako ang Dios nga Makagagahom. Magtuman ka permi sa akon kag magkabuhi nga matarong.
Kag parte sang sina nga kasugtanan, dapat tulion ninyo ang tanan ninyo nga lalaki.
Ini ang mangin tanda sang akon kasugtanan sa inyo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga lalaki sa inyo nga wala matuli indi ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo, kay ginbaliwala niya ang akon kasugtanan.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Dios kay Abraham, “Kon parte sa imo asawa nga si Sarai, indi mo na siya pagtawgon nga Sarai, kundi sugod subong sugod subong Sara
Pakamaayuhon ko siya kag hatagan ko gid ikaw sang anak paagi sa iya. Mangin iloy siya sang madamo nga nasyon, kag ang iban niya nga mga kaliwat mangin hari.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Abraham nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod sa Dios bilang pagtahod sa Dios , pero nagkadlaw siya. Nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Makapabata pa bala ako nga 100 na ang akon edad? Kag si Sara, makabata pa bala nga 90 na ang iya edad?”
Dayon nagsiling siya sa Dios, “Kabay pa nga si Ishmael ang magabaton sang mga ginpromisa mo sa akon.”
Nagsabat ang Dios, “Indi. Ang imo asawa nga si Sara magabata sing lalaki kag ngalanan mo siya nga Isaac.
Tumanon ko ang akon kasugtanan sa imo; padamuon ko gid ang imo mga kaliwat.”
Kon parte kay Ishmael, nabatian ko ang imo pangabay para sa iya. Pakamaayuhon ko siya kag hatagan sang madamo nga kaliwat. Mangin amay siya sang dose ka pangulo, kag ang iya mga kaliwat mangin bantog nga katawhan.
Ugaling, kay Isaac kag sa iya mga kaliwat kag sa iya mga kaliwat ko lang tumanon ang akon kasugtanan sa imo. Magabata si Sara kay Isaac sa amo man sini nga tion sa sunod nga tuig.”
Pagkatapos hambal sang Dios kay Abraham, naghalin siya dayon.
Sa sadto gid mismo nga adlaw, gintuman ni Abraham ang ginsugo sa iya sang Dios. Gintuli niya ang iya anak nga si Ishmael kag ang tanan nga lalaki sa iya panimalay: ang mga ulipon nga natawo sa iya panimalay kag ang mga ulipon nga iya ginbakal.
Nagaedad si Abraham sing 99 ka tuig sang gintuli siya,
kag si Ishmael ya nagaedad sing 13 ka tuig.
Pagkabati sadto ni Pagkabati sadto ni Abram, nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod sa Dios bilang pagtahod sa Dios . Nagsiling ang Dios sa iya,
“Sa akon bahin, amo ini ang akon kasugtanan sa imo: Mangin amay ka sang madamo nga nasyon.
Sugod subong indi na Abram ang itawag sa imo kundi Abraham
Padamuon ko gid ang imo mga kaliwat kag magatukod sila sang mga nasyon, kag ang iban sa ila mangin hari.
Tumanon ko ang akon kasugtanan sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon, nga ako padayon nga mangin Dios ninyo. Ini nga kasugtanan magapadayon hasta san-o.
Mga pangayaw lang kamo subong sa duta sang Canaan. Pero igahatag ko ining bilog nga duta sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat. Mangin inyo na ina hasta san-o, kag ako padayon nga mangin Dios ninyo.”
Nagsiling pa gid siya kay Abraham, “Sa imo bahin, tipigan mo ang akon kasugtanan sa imo. Kag amo man ini ang dapat nga himuon sang imo mga kaliwat sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abraham sang didto pa siya nagaestar malapit sa dalagko nga mga kahoy
Nagapamati gali si Sara didto sa puwertahan sang tolda sa likod lang ni Abraham.
(Tigulang na gid sila nga duha ni Abraham kag nag-untat na gani ang pamulanon ni Sara.)
Nagkadlaw si Sara sa iya lang kaugalingon kag naghunahuna, “Sa katigulangon ko nga ini ganahan pa ayhan ako sa paghulid sa akon bana nga tigulang man?”
Nagpamangkot dayon ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abraham, “Ngaa bala nagkadlaw si Sara kag nagsiling, ‘Makabata pa bala ako nga tigulang na ako?’
May butang bala nga indi mahimo sang Ginoo Ginoo ? Suno sa ginsiling ko, mabalik ako diri sa sunod nga tuig sa amo man sini nga tion, kag si Sara may anak na nga lalaki.”
Hinadlukan si Sara, gani nagbutig siya. Siling niya, “Wala ako nagkadlaw!” Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Nagkadlaw ka gid.”
Pagkatapos naglakat ang tatlo ka lalaki. Gindul-ong sila ni Abraham hasta sa lugar nga makita nila sa ubos ang banwa sang Sodom.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ko pagtaguon kay Abraham ang akon pagahimuon.
Sigurado nga mangin dako kag gamhanan nga nasyon ang iya mga kaliwat sa palaabuton. Kag paagi sa iya pakamaayuhon ko ang tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan.
Ginpili ko siya para ipatuman niya sa iya mga kabataan kag mga kaliwat ang akon mga pamaagi, para maghimo sila sang husto kag matarong. Sa sina nga paagi, matuman ang akon ginpromisa sa iya.”
Samtang nagapanan-aw tan-aw siya, may nakita siya nga tatlo ka lalaki nga nagatindog sa unhan. Nagtindog siya dayon kag nagdali-dali sugata sa ila. Nagluhod siya sa ila bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Abraham, “Madamo na ang nagareklamo kontra sa Sodom kag Gomora, kay puwerte na gid ang kalautan sa sini nga mga lugar.
Gani makadto ako didto para mahibaluan ko kon matuod ukon indi ini nga mga reklamo.”
Naglakat dayon ang duha ka lalaki pa-Sodom, pero nagpabilin ang Ginoo Ginoo kag si Abraham.
Nagpalapit si Abraham sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagpamangkot, “Laglagon mo bala ang mga matarong upod sa mga makasasala?
Kon may ara abi nga 50 ka matarong sa sina nga banwa, laglagon mo bala gihapon ang bilog nga banwa? Indi mo bala pagkaluoyan ang banwa tungod na lang sa 50 ka tawo nga matarong?
Imposible nga laglagon mo ang mga matarong upod sa mga makasasala. Indi mahimo nga palareho lang ang pagtratar mo sa ila. Ikaw nga nagahukom sa bilog nga kalibutan, indi bala nga dapat himuon mo kon ano ang husto?”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon may makita ako nga 50 ka matarong sa Sodom, indi ko paglaglagon ang bilog nga banwa tungod lang sa ila.”
Nagsiling liwat si Abraham, “O Ginoo, patawara ako nga nangisog ako sa pagpakighambal sa imo. Tawo lang ako, kag wala ako sing kinamatarong sa paghambal sini sa imo.
Pero kon may ara lang abi nga 45 ka matarong, ano, laglagon mo bala gihapon ang bilog nga banwa tungod kay kulang ini sang lima?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon may makita ako nga 45 ka matarong, indi ko paglaglagon ang banwa.”
Nagsiling liwat si Abraham, “Ti, kon 40 lang abi ang matarong?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ko paglaglagon ang banwa kon may 40 nga matarong.”
kag nagsiling, “Ginoo,
Nagsiling liwat si Abraham, “Indi ka lang kuntani mangakig sa akon, Ginoo, kay mamangkot pa ako. Ti, abi kon may 30 lang ka tawo nga matarong?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ko gihapon paglaglagon ang banwa kon may makita ako nga 30 ka tawo nga matarong.”
Nagsiling pa gid liwat si Abraham, “Ginoo, patawara ako sa akon kaisog sa padayon nga pagpakighambal sa imo. Abi kon may 20 lang ka tawo nga matarong?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ko gihapon paglaglagon ang banwa kon may 20 nga matarong.”
Nagsiling pa gid liwat si Abraham, “Ginoo, indi ka kuntani mangakig; katapusan ko na lang gid ini nga pamangkot. Halimbawa 10 lang abi ang imo makita nga matarong?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ko gihapon paglaglagon ang banwa kon may 10 nga matarong.”
Pagkatapos nila estorya, naghalin ang Ginoo Ginoo , kag si Abraham ya nagpuli sa ila.
Magpakuha ako sang tubig para makapanghinaw kamo sang inyo mga tiil kag dayon magpahuway kamo sa idalom sang sini nga kahoy.
Makuha man ako sang pagkaon para sa inyo agod may kusog kamo sa inyo paglakat. Ginakalipay ko ang pagserbisyo sa inyo samtang ari kamo diri sa amon.” Kag nagsabat sila, “Sige, himua ang ginsiling mo.”
Gani nagdali-dali si Abraham sulod sa tolda kag nagsiling kay Sara, “Abi, kuha ka sing mga tunga sa sako nga harina nga pinakamaayo nga klase kag magluto ka sang tinapay. Kag dalion mo ang pagluto.”
Nagdalagan dayon si Abraham pakadto sa iya mga baka kag nagpili sang matambok nga bata, kag dali-dali niya ini nga ginpaihaw kag ginpaluto sa iya bataon nga suluguon.
Dayon gindala niya ini sa iya mga bisita, kag nagdala man siya sang keso kag gatas. Kag samtang nagakaon sila sa idalom sang kahoy, didto man si Abraham nga nagaserbi sa ila.
Karon, nagpamangkot ang mga bisita kay Abraham, “Diin bala si Sara nga imo asawa?” Nagsabat siya, “Didto sa sulod sang tolda.”
Nag-abot atong duha ka anghel sa Sodom sang sirom na. Nagapungko sadto si Lot sa puwertahan sang banwa. Pagkakita ni Lot sa ila, nagtindog siya sa pagsugata sa ila. Dayon nagluhod siya sa ila atubangan bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod kag nagsiling,
pero gin-abrihan ini sang duha ka anghel nga didto sa sulod kag ginbutong nila si Lot pasulod kag ginsiradhan ang puwertahan.
Dayon ginbulag nila ang mga tawo sa guwa para indi na sila makatultol sang puwertahan.
Nagsiling ang duha ka anghel kay Lot, “Kon may mga anak ka pa, ukon mga umagad nga lalaki, ukon mga paryente sa sini nga banwa, dal-a sila tanan kag magpalagyo kamo,
tungod kay laglagon namon ini nga banwa. Nabatian sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga reklamo kontra sa sining mga tawo. Gani ginpadala niya kami sa paglaglag sang sini nga banwa.”
Dayon ginkadtuan ni Lot ang mga mangin umagad
Sang kaagahon, ginpadali-dali si Lot sang mga anghel nga maghalin sa banwa. Siling nila, “Dasiga! Dal-a ang imo asawa kag duha ka anak nga babayi nga ari diri kag maghalin kamo dayon, kay basi madalahig kamo kon laglagon na ini nga banwa.”
Indi pa kuntani maghalin si Lot. Pero tungod kay naluoy ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila, gin-uyatan sila sang mga anghel sa kamot kag gindala paguwa sa banwa.
Sang didto na sila sa guwa, nagsiling ang Ginoo,
Pero nagsabat si Lot, “Ginoo
Ginkaluoyan mo ako kag ginpakita mo ang imo kaayo sa akon sa pagluwas sang akon kabuhi. Pero layo katama ang bukid; basi maabtan ako sang kahalitan kag mapatay ako antes makaabot didto.
“Kon mahimo hapit anay kamo sa akon balay. Makapanghinaw kamo didto sang inyo mga tiil kag makatulog karon nga gab-i. Kag buwas sa kaagahon makapadayon kamo sa inyo pagpanglakaton.” Pero nagsabat sila, “Indi lang, didto lang kami matulog sa plasa karon nga gab-i.”
Tan-awa bala inang gamay nga banwa sa unhan. Siguro maabot ko ina kay malapit man lang. Puwede bala ako makapalagyo sa sina nga gamay nga banwa para maluwas ako?”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo,
Ato nga banwa gintawag nga Zoar.
Nagabutlak gid ang adlaw sang pag-abot nila ni Lot sa Zoar.
Dayon ginpaulanan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang nagadabdab nga asupre ang Sodom kag Gomora.
Ginlaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang duha ka banwa kag ang bilog nga kapatagan. Nagkalamatay ang tanan nga nagaestar didto pati ang tanan nga tanom.
Nagbalikid ang asawa ni Lot, gani nahimo siya nga haligi nga asin.
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nagdali-dali kadto si Abraham sa lugar nga sa diin nagpakighambal siya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gintan-aw niya ang Sodom kag Gomora kag ang bilog nga kapatagan. Nakita niya ang aso nga nagatub-ok halin sa duta nga daw pareho sa aso nga nagahalin sa isa ka dako nga hurnohan.
Gani gindumdom sang Dios si Abraham, kay sang paglaglag sang Dios sang mga banwa sa kapatagan nga sa diin nag-estar si Lot, ginpapalagyo niya anay si Lot para indi siya mahalitan.
Pero ginpilit gid sila ni Lot, gani nag-upod na lang sila sa iya balay. Nagpreparar si Lot sang mga pagkaon kag ilimnon. Nagpaluto man siya sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok. Kag sang handa na, nagpanyapon sila.
Tungod kay nahadlok si Lot mag-estar sa Zoar, nagsaylo siya kag ang iya duha ka anak nga dalaga sa bukid kag didto nag-estar sa kuweba.
Sang isa ka adlaw, nagsiling ang magulang nga anak sa iya manghod, “Tigulang na ang aton amay kag wala gid diri sing lalaki nga aton mapamana para makapamata kita pareho sa ginahimo sa bisan diin.
Maayo pa nga paimnon ta si tatay sang bino hasta nga mahubog siya, dayon maghulid kita sa iya para makabata kita paagi sa iya.”
Gani sadto nga gab-i, ginhubog nila ang ila amay. Dayon nagpakighilawas ang magulang nga anak sa iya amay. Pero tungod sa sobra nga kahubog ni Lot wala gid siya kahibalo kon ano ang nagkalatabo.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagsiling ang magulang sa iya manghod, “Naghulid na ako kagab-i sa aton amay. Kag karon sa gab-i paimnon ta naman siya sang bino hasta nga mahubog siya, kag ikaw naman ang maghulid sa iya para kita nga duha makabata paagi sa iya.”
Gani sadto gid nga gab-i, ginhubog naman nila ang ila amay kag ang manghod naman ang nagpakighilawas sa iya. Sa sobra niya nga kahubog wala siya gihapon kahibalo kon ano ang nagkalatabo.
Sa sadto nga paagi, nagbusong ang duha ka anak ni Lot paagi mismo sa iya.
Sang ulihi nagbata ang magulang sing lalaki kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Moab.
Nagbata man ang manghod sing lalaki kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Ben Ami.
Sang manugtulog na sila, nag-abot ang tanan nga bataon kag tigulang nga mga lalaki halin sa tanan nga parte sang siyudad sang Sodom, kag ginpalibutan nila ang balay ni Lot.
Gintawag nila si Lot kag ginpamangkot, “Diin na bala ang imo bisita nga mga lalaki nga nag-abot sini lang nga gab-i? Paguwaa sila diri kay luyag namon nga magpakighilawas sa ila.”
Nagguwa si Lot sa balay para atubangon sila. Sang pagguwa niya, ginsira niya dayon ang puwertahan.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, sa ila, “Mga abyan, nagapangabay ako nga indi ninyo paghimua inang ginahunahuna ninyo nga malain.
Kon gusto ninyo, may duha ako ka anak nga dalaga pa. Ihatag ko sila sa inyo kag pagusto kamo kon ano ang inyo himuon sa ila. Pero indi lang ninyo pag-anha ining duha ka tawo, kay mga bisita ko sila kag dapat ko sila nga protektaran.”
Pero nagsiling ang mga tawo, “Estranghero ka lang diri pero daw si sin-o ka gid nga magpasilabot sa amon. Halin dira! Basi kon sobra pa ang amon himuon sa imo sang sa ila.” Dayon gintikwang nila si Lot. Mapalapit na kuntani sila sa puwertahan para gub-on ini,
Naghalin sila ni Abraham sa Mamre kag nagkadto sa Negev. Didto sila nag-estar sa tunga-tunga sang Kadesh kag Shur. Sang ulihi nagsaylo sila sa Gerar.
Pero ngaa bala ginhimo mo ini?”
Nagsabat si Abraham, “Abi ko wala gid sing bisan isa diri nga nagatahod sa Dios, gani naghunahuna ako nga basi patyon ninyo ako para makuha ninyo ang akon asawa.
Matuod gid man nga mag-utod kami, pero sa amay lang kag indi sa iloy, kag ginpangasawa ko siya.
Sang ginsilingan ako sang Dios nga maghalin sa panimalay sang akon amay, ginhambalan ko si Sara nga ipakilala niya nga mag-utod kami bisan diin kami magkadto. Sa sini nga paagi mapakita niya ang iya paghigugma sa akon.”
Ginbalik ni Abimelec si Sara kay Abraham, kag ginhatagan pa niya si Abraham sang mga karnero, baka, kag mga ulipon nga babayi kag lalaki.
Dayon nagsiling siya kay Abraham, “Handa ako nga paestaron kamo sa akon duta. Mag-estar kamo bisan diin nga gusto ninyo.”
Nagsiling man siya kay Sara, “Hatagan ko ang imo utod sang 1,000 ka bilog nga pilak bilang pamatuod sa tanan ninyo nga kaupdanan nga wala ko ikaw matandog kag para indi sila maghunahuna nga nakahimo ka sang malain.”
Samtang didto sila, ang pakilala ni Abraham kay Sara sa mga tawo utod niya siya. Gani ginpakuha ni Haring Abimelec sang Gerar si Sara.
Isa ka gab-i, nagpakita ang Dios kay Abimelec paagi sa isa ka damgo. Siling niya, “Mapatay ka tungod kay ginkuha mo ina nga babayi nga may bana na.”
Pero tungod kay wala pa matandog ni Abimelec si Sara, nagsiling siya, “Ginoo, ngaa patyon mo ako kag ang akon katawhan? Wala ako sing sala.
Nagsiling man abi si Abraham nga utod niya si Sara kag si Sara nagsiling man nga utod niya si Abraham. Inosente gid ako kag wala gid ako sing malain nga tuyo sa pagkuha kay Sara.”
Nagsabat ang Dios, “Huo, nakahibalo ako nga wala ka sing malain nga tuyo, gani wala ako magtugot nga matandog mo siya para indi ka makasala sa akon.
Pero dapat ibalik mo siya sa iya bana tungod ang iya bana isa ka propeta, kag pangamuyuan ka niya para indi ka mapatay. Pero kon indi mo gani siya pag-ibalik, ginapaandaman ko ikaw nga daan nga mapatay ka gid pati ang tanan mo nga katawhan.”
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, ginpatawag ni Abimelec ang tanan niya nga mga opisyal kag ginsugiran parte sa iya nga damgo. Kag hinadlukan gid sila.
Dayon ginpatawag ni Abimelec si Abraham kag ginpamangkot, “Ano bala ining ginhimo mo sa amon? Ano bala ang akon sala sa imo nga ginbutang mo sa dako nga paglapas ang akon bilog nga ginharian? Indi husto ang imo ginhimo.
Karon, gindumdom sang Ginoo Ginoo si Sara suno sa iya ginpromisa.
Gani nagsiling si Sara kay Abraham, “Palayasa inang babayi nga ulipon kag ang iya anak, kay ang anak sinang ulipon indi dapat partihan sa palanublion sang akon anak nga si Isaac.”
Naglain gid ang buot ni Abraham tungod kay anak man niya si Ishmael.
Pero nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, “Indi maglain ang buot mo parte kay Ishmael kag kay Hagar. Tumana ang gusto ni Sara, tungod sa kay Isaac magahalin ang imo mga kaliwat nga akon ginpromisa.
Kag kon parte kay Ishmael, hatagan ko man siya sang madamo nga kaliwat kag mangin isa man sila ka nasyon, tungod kay anak mo man siya.”
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nagkuha si Abraham sang pagkaon kag tubig nga nasulod sa panit nga suludlan, kag ginpapas-an niya ini kay Hagar. Dayon ginpalakat niya si Hagar kaupod ang bata. Nagpanglakaton sila sa kamingawan sang Beersheba nga wala kahibalo kon sa diin sila pakadto.
Sang naubos na ang ila tubig, ginbilin niya ang iya bata sa idalom sang isa ka kahoy-kahoy
kag naglakat siya sa unhan nga ang kalayuon mga 100 ka metros halin sa bata. Didto siya nagpungko kag naghilibion nga nagasiling sa iya kaugalingon, “Indi ako makaantos nga magtan-aw sa akon anak nga mapatay.”
Karon, nabatian sang Dios ang hibi sang bata. Gani nagsiling ang anghel sang Dios kay Hagar halin didto sa langit, “Ano ang imo ginapaligban Hagar? Indi ka magkahadlok; nabatian sang Dios ang hibi sang imo anak.
Tindog ka kag pabanguna ang bata, kay himuon ko nga dako nga nasyon ang iya mga kaliwat.”
Dayon may ginpakita ang Dios sa iya nga isa ka bubon. Nagkadto siya didto kag ginsudlan sang tubig ang iya suludlan, dayon ginpainom niya ang iya anak.
Nagbusong si Sara kag nagbata sing lalaki bisan tigulang na si Abraham. Natawo ang bata sa tion gid nga ginsiling sadto sang Dios.
Sang sadto nga tion,
Gani, magsumpa ka diri sa ngalan sang Dios nga indi mo gid ako pagtraiduran pati ang akon mga kaliwat. Ipakita mo ang imo kaayo sa akon kag sa sining lugar nga sa diin nagaestar ka karon bilang pangayaw, subong nga nangin maayo man ako sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Abraham, “Ginasumpa ko.”
Pero nagreklamo si Abraham kay Abimelec parte sa bubon nga gin-agaw sang iya mga suluguon.
Nagsiling si Abimelec, “Wala ako kahibalo kon sin-o ang naghimo sina. Wala mo man ako ginsugiran, kag subong ko lang nabatian ina.”
Gani nagkuha si Abraham sang mga karnero kag mga baka kag ginhatag niya kay Abimelec, dayon naghimo sila nga duha sang kasugtanan.
Nagkuha pa gid si Abraham sang pito ka babayi nga karnero kag iya ini ginpain.
Nagpamangkot si Abimelec, “Para sa ano inang pito ka karnero nga imo ginpain?”
Gin-ngalanan ni Abraham ang bata nga Isaac.
Nagsabat si Abraham, “Batuna ining pito ka karnero bilang pamatuod nga ako ang nagkutkot sang sina nga bubon.”
Tungod sining pagsumpaanay nila, ang ato nga lugar gintawag Beersheba.
Pagkatapos sang ila kasugtanan didto sa Beersheba, nagbalik si Abimelec kag ang pangulo sang iya mga soldado nga si Ficol sa duta sang mga Filistinhon.
Nagtanom si Abraham sang isa ka kahoy nga tamarisko didto sa Beersheba kag nagsimba siya didto sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios nga wala sing katapusan.
Nag-estar si Abraham sa duta sang mga Filistinhon sa malawig nga panahon.
Sang walo na ka adlaw ang bata, gintuli siya ni Abraham suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Dios.
Nagaedad si Abraham sang 100 ka tuig sang natawo si Isaac.
Nagsiling si Sara, “Ginpakadlaw ako sang Dios sa kalipay, kag ang bisan sin-o nga makabati parte sining natabo sa akon magakadlaw man.
Sin-o ang makahunahuna nga magsiling kay Abraham nga makapatiti pa ako sang bata? Pero nakabata pa ako bisan tigulang na siya.”
Nagdako si Isaac, kag sang adlaw nga ginlutas siya naghiwat si Abraham sang isa ka dako nga punsyon.
Isa ka adlaw, nakita ni Sara nga ginasunlog ni Ishmael si Isaac. (Si Ishmael anak ni Abraham kay Hagar nga Egyptohanon.)
Sang ulihi gintilawan sang Dios si Abraham. Gintawag niya si Abraham, kag nagsabat si Abraham sa iya.
Pagkatapos nagkuha siya sang sundang. Kag sang patyon na niya kuntani si Isaac,
gintawag siya sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa langit, “Abraham! Abraham!” Pagkatapos nga nagsabat si Abraham,
nagsiling ang anghel, “Indi pagpatya ang bata! Karon napamatud-an ko na gid nga may kahadlok ka sa Dios tungod kay wala mo pag-ilikaw sa akon ang imo bugtong nga anak.”
Pagbalikid ni Abraham, may nakita siya nga isa ka lalaki nga karnero nga ang iya sungay nasangit sa mga kahoy-kahoy, kag indi na ini makahalin. Gani ginkuha ini ni Abraham kag ginhalad bilang halad nga ginasunog sa baylo sang iya anak.
Gintawag ni Abraham ato nga lugar “Nagatigana ang Ginoo Ginoo .” Gani hasta subong may hulubaton nga nagasiling, “Sa Bukid sang Ginoo Ginoo may ginatigana siya.”
Nagtawag liwat kay Abraham ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa langit.
Kag paagi sa imo mga kaliwat,
Pagkatapos sadto, nagbalik si Abraham kag si Isaac kag si Isaac sa mga suluguon. Dayon nagkadto sila sa Beersheba kag didto na nag-estar.
Dayon nagsiling siya, “Dal-a ang imo bugtong
Sang ulihi nabalitaan ni Abraham nga si Nahor nga iya utod may mga anak na kay Milca:
Si Uz ang magulang, sunod si Buz, kag dayon si Kemuel (nga amay ni Aram),
si Kesed, si Hazo, si Pildash, si Jidlaf, kag si Betuel.
Sila nga walo amo ang mga anak ni Nahor kay Milca. Si Betuel amo ang amay ni Rebeka.
May mga anak man si Nahor sa isa pa niya ka asawa nga si Reuma. Sila amo sanday Teba, Gaham, Tahash kag Maaca.
Gani aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nagbial si Abraham sang mga kahoy nga inuggatong sa halad, kag ginkarga niya ini sa iya donkey. Naglakat siya kaupod si Isaac kag ang duha niya ka suluguon nga lalaki pakadto sa lugar nga ginsiling sa iya sang Dios.
Sang ikatlo nga adlaw sang ila pagpanglakaton sang ila pagpanglakaton , nakita ni Abraham sa unhan ang lugar nga ginsiling sa iya sang Dios.
Gani nagsiling si Abraham sa duha niya ka suluguon, “Diri lang kamo anay kag bantayi ninyo ang donkey, kay mataklad kami didto sa unhan kag magsimba sa Dios. Mabalik man kami dayon.”
Ginpapas-an ni Abraham kay Isaac ang mga kahoy nga inuggatong sa halad, kag siya ang nagdala sang sundang kag pangsindi.
Samtang nagalakat sila, nagsiling si Isaac, “Tay!” Nagsabat si Abraham, “Ano, anak?” Nagpamangkot si Isaac, “May dala kita nga pangsindi kag inuggatong, pero diin ang karnero nga inughalad?”
Nagsabat si Abraham, “Anak, ang Dios ang magahatag sa aton sang karnero nga inughalad.” Kag nagpadayon sila sa paglakat.
Sang pag-abot nila sa lugar nga ginsiling sang Dios, naghimo si Abraham sang halaran, kag ginplastar niya ang mga kahoy sa ibabaw sini. Dayon gin-gapos niya si Isaac kag gintungtong sa ibabaw sang halaran.
Nagkabuhi si Sara sing 127 ka tuig.
Ara gali gali si Efron nga nagapungko upod sang iya mga kasimanwa nga mga Hithanon. Gani nagsabat siya kay Abraham nga nabatian sang tanan nga Hithanon nga nagtipon didto sa may puwertahan sang banwa.
Siling niya, “Sa atubangan sining akon mga kasimanwa ginahatag ko sa imo sir ang bilog nga uma pati ang kuweba. Gani puwede mo na ilubong ang imo asawa.”
Nagluhod liwat si Abraham sa pagpasalamat sa pagpasalamat sa atubangan sang mga pumuluyo.
Dayon nagsiling siya kay Efron nga nabatian sang mga pumuluyo, “Pamatii bala ako. Bayaran ko ang bili sang uma. Batuna ang akon bayad para malubong ko na ang akon asawa didto.”
Nagsabat si Efron,
“Sir, ang duta nagabili sing 400 ka bilog nga pilak. Kon sa bagay, kon bayaran mo, pila man lang ina para sa imo kag sa akon. Sige, ilubong na ang imo asawa.”
Nagsugot si Abraham sa bili nga ginsiling ni Efron. Gani nagkilo siya sing 400 ka bilog nga pilak suno sa bug-at nga ginabasihan sadto sang mga negosyante. Kag ginbayad niya ini kay Efron didto sa atubangan sang mga Hithanon.
Ginlubong dayon ni Abraham si Sara didto sa kuweba nga ara sa uma sa Macpela, nga sakop sang duta sang Canaan. Ang Macpela malapit sa Mamre nga amo ang Hebron.
Didto siya napatay sa Kiriat Arba (nga amo ang Hebron) sa duta sang Canaan. Puwerte gid ang pagpangasubo ni Abraham sa pagkapatay ni Sara.
Gani ang uma pati ang kuweba, nga iya anay sang mga Hithanon, nangin iya na ni Abraham kag ginhimo niya ini nga lulubngan.
Karon, ginbayaan anay ni Abraham ang bangkay sang iya asawa kag nagpakigkita siya sa mga Hithanon kag nagsiling sa ila,
“Nagaestar ako diri sa inyo nga lugar nga isa ka pangayaw, gani kon mahimo pabakla man ninyo ako sang duta nga puwede ko malubngan sang akon asawa.”
Nagsabat ang mga Hithanon,
“Sir, pamati anay sa amon. Ginakilala ka namon nga gamhanan nga tawo, gani puwede mo ilubong ang imo asawa bisan diin sa amon pinakamaayo nga mga lulubngan. Wala gid sing bisan isa sa amon nga mangindi sa paghatag sa imo sang lulubngan para malubong mo ang imo asawa.”
Sa gilayon nagluhod si Abraham sa pagpasalamat sa pagpasalamat sa atubangan sang mga pumuluyo nga mga Hithanon.
Dayon nagsiling siya, “Kon sugot gid man kamo nga diri ko ilubong ang akon asawa, buligan ninyo ako nga hambalon si Efron nga anak ni Zohar
nga ibaligya niya sa akon ang iya kuweba nga ara sa higad sang iya uma sa Macpela. Hambala ninyo siya nga bayaran ko siya sa husto nga presyo diri mismo sa inyo atubangan para mangin akon na ina nga kuweba para himuon nga lulubngan.”
Tigulang na gid katama si Abraham kag ginpakamaayo siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga butang.
Pagkatapos nagkuha ang suluguon sang napulo ka camel kag mga malahalon nga pangregalo halin sa iya amo nga si Abraham. Naglakat dayon siya pakadto sa Aram Naharaim,
Pag-abot sang suluguon sa banwa, Pag-abot sang suluguon sa banwa, ginpaluko niya ang mga camel malapit sa bubon sa guwa sang banwa. Sirom na sadto kag tion sang pagpanag-ob sang mga babayi.
Nagpangamuyo ang suluguon, “ Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang akon amo nga si Abraham, kabay pa nga patigayunon mo ang akon katuyuan diri, kag ipakita mo ang imo kaayo sa akon amo.
Nagatindog ako diri sa higad sang bubon samtang nagasag-ob ang mga babayi sang sini nga banwa.
Kon mangayo gani ako sang tubig sa tibod sang isa ka dalaga, kag magsugot siya nga paimnon ako pati ang akon mga camel, kabay pa nga siya ang babayi nga imo ginpili nga mangin asawa sang imo alagad nga si Isaac. Sa sini mahibaluan ko nga ginpakita mo ang imo kaayo sa akon amo nga si Abraham nga si Abraham .”
Wala pa siya makatapos pangamuyo, nag-abot si Rebeka nga may ginapas-an nga tibod. Si Rebeka anak ni Betuel, kag si Betuel anak ni Nahor kag ni Milca. Si Nahor utod ni Abraham.
Matahom gid nga dalaga si Rebeka kag birhen pa. Nagdulhog siya pakadto sa bubon kag ginsudlan niya sang tubig ang iya tibod. Dayon nagsaka siya para magpuli.
Nagdali-dali ang suluguon sa pagsugata sa iya kag nagsiling, “Palihog paimna ako sa imo tibod bisan diutay lang.”
Nagsabat si Rebeka “Sige sir, inom ka.” Ginpaidalom niya dayon ang tibod kag gin-uyatan samtang nagainom ang suluguon.
Pagkatapos niya painom sa suluguon, nagsiling siya, “Masag-ob man ako para sa imo mga camel hasta nga makainom sila tanan.”
Isa sadto ka adlaw, ginsilingan niya ang iya manugdumala
Dali-dali niya nga ginbubo ang tubig sa ilimnan sang mga sapat kag nagbalik siya sa bubon sa pagsag-ob liwat. Sige ang iya sag-ob hasta nga nakainom ang tanan nga camel.
Nagapanilag lang ang suluguon kag ginahunahuna niya kon bala ginapatigayon na sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya katuyuan sa pagkadto sa sina nga lugar.
Pagkatapos inom sang mga camel, ginpaguwa sang suluguon ang dala niya nga singsing nga bulawan nga ang kabug-aton mga anom ka gramo. Ginpaguwa man niya ang duha ka pulseras
Dayon nagpamangkot siya kay Rebeka, “Kay sin-o ka bata? May lugar pa bala sa inyo nga puwede namon matulugan karon nga gab-i?”
Nagsabat si Rebeka, “Bata ako ni Betuel nga anak nga lalaki ni Nahor kag ni Milca.
May matulugan kamo didto sa amon, kag may madamo man nga mga dagami kag kumpay para sa inyo mga camel.”
Nagluhod dayon ang suluguon kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Siling niya, “Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang akon amo nga si Abraham. Iya gid ginpakita ang iya padayon nga kaayo sa akon amo. Ako mismo gintuytuyan niya sa pagkadto sa mga paryente sang akon amo.”
Nagdalagan puli si Rebeka sa balay sang iya iloy kag ginsugid niya sa ila ang tanan nga natabo.
kag magsumpa ka sa akon sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang langit kag sang duta, nga indi ka magpili sang palangasaw-on sang akon anak nga si Isaac diri sa taga-Canaan nga kaupod ta nga nagaestar subong.
Nagsiling si Laban sa iya, “Ikaw gali ang tawo nga ginapakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ngaa diri ka lang nagatindog? Dali sa balay, kay ginpreparar ko na ang kuwarto para sa inyo para sa inyo kag ang lugar para sa imo imo mga camel.”
Nag-upod ang suluguon kay Laban. Pag-abot nila sa balay, ginkuha ni Laban ang mga karga sang mga camel kag ginhatagan niya dayon ang mga camel sang dagami kag kumpay. Gindal-an man niya sang tubig ang suluguon kag ang iya mga kaupod, para makapanghinaw sila sang ila mga tiil.
Sang mabutangan na sila sang pagkaon, nagsiling ang suluguon, “Indi ako magkaon kon indi ko anay masugid ang akon katuyuan sa pagkadto diri.” Nagsabat si Laban, “Sige, sugiri kami.”
Nagsiling siya, “Suluguon ako ni Abraham.
Ginpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang akon amo kag manggaranon na gid siya subong. Ginhatagan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sang madamo nga karnero, kanding, baka, camel, donkey, pilak, bulawan, kag ulipon nga lalaki kag babayi.
Bisan tigulang na gid si Sara nga iya asawa, nakabata pa siya. Kag ining bata nila nga lalaki amo ang magapanubli sang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
Ginpasumpa ako sang akon amo nga tumanon ko ang iya sugo nga nagasiling, ‘Indi ka magpili sang pangasaw-on sang akon anak diri sa mga taga-Canaan nga ang ila duta amo ang ginaestaran ta subong.
Magkadto ka sa panimalay sang akon amay, kag didto ka magpili sang babayi halin sa akon mga paryente nga ipaasawa sa akon anak.’
Pero nagpamangkot ako, ‘Ti, paano abi kon indi mag-upod ang babayi sa akon?’
Magkadto ka sa lugar nga akon ginhalinan, kag didto ka magpili sang babayi halin sa akon mga paryente nga ipaasawa sa akon anak nga si Isaac.”
Nagsabat siya, ‘Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon ginatuman permi magapadala sang iya anghel sa pag-upod sa imo para mapatigayon ang imo katuyuan didto. Makakita ka sang palangasaw-on sang akon anak halin sa akon mga paryente, sa panimalay sang akon amay.
Kon didto ka magkadto sa akon mga paryente, wala ka sing salabton sa sumpa mo sa akon kon indi nila pag-ipadala ang babayi sa imo.’
“Gani pag-abot ko kaina sa bubon, nagpangamuyo ako. Siling ko, ‘ Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang akon amo nga si Abraham, kabay pa nga patigayunon mo ang akon katuyuan sa pagkadto diri.
Karon, nagatindog ako diri sa higad sang bubon. Kon may mag-abot gani nga dalaga nga magsag-ob, mangayo ako sang diutay lang nga tubig sa iya tibod.
Kon magsugot gani siya nga paimnon ako pati ang akon mga camel, kabay pa nga siya ang babayi nga ginpili mo nga mangin asawa sang anak sang akon amo.’
“Wala pa gani ako makatapos pangamuyo, nag-abot si Rebeka nga may ginapas-an nga tibod. Nagdulhog siya pakadto sa bubon kag nagsag-ob. Nagsiling ako sa iya, ‘Palihog paimna ako.’
Ginpaidalom niya dayon ang tibod sa iya abaga, kag nagsiling, ‘Sige, inom ka, kag paimnon ko man ang imo mga camel.’ Gani nag-inom ako, kag dayon ginpainom man niya ang mga camel.
Pagkatapos sadto, ginpamangkot ko siya kon kay sin-o siya bata. Nagsabat siya, ‘Kay Betuel nga anak nga lalaki ni Nahor kag ni Milca.’ Dayon ginbutangan ko sang singsing ang iya ilong kag ginsuksukan sang mga pulseras ang iya butkon.
Nagluhod dayon ako kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gindayaw ko ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang akon amo nga si Abraham. Siya ang nagtuytoy sa akon sa husto nga lugar, nga sa diin nakita ko ang anak sang paryente sang akon amo nga mangin asawa sang iya anak.
“Karon, gusto ko mahibaluan kon ipakita ninyo ang inyo padayon nga kaayo sa akon amo paagi sa pagpaasawa kay Rebeka paagi sa pagpaasawa kay Rebeka . Siling nga daan kamo para mahibaluan ko man kon ano ang akon himuon.”
Pero nagpamangkot ang suluguon, “Ti, paano abi kon indi mag-upod ang babayi sa sini nga lugar? Dal-on ko na lang bala si Isaac didto?”
Nagsabat si Laban kag si Betuel, “Tungod kay ini kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo , wala na kami sing may masiling pa.
Ari si Rebeka, dal-a siya kon magpuli ka para mangin asawa siya sang anak sang imo amo, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pagkabati sadto sang suluguon, nagluhod siya kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpaguwa niya dayon ang iya dala nga mga alahas nga pilak kag bulawan kag pati mga bayo, kag ginhatag kay Rebeka. Ginhatagan man niya sang malahalon nga mga regalo ang utod nga lalaki kag ang iloy ni Rebeka.
Pagbugtaw nila pagkaaga, nagsiling ang suluguon, “Mapuli na ako sa akon amo.”
Pero nagsabat ang utod kag ang iloy ni Rebeka, “Patinera anay diri si Rebeka sa amon bisan napulo lang ka adlaw, pagkatapos sina makalakat na kamo.”
Pero nagsiling ang suluguon, “Indi man ninyo ako pagpadugaya diri. Ginpatigayon na sang Ginoo Ginoo ang akon katuyuan sa pagkadto diri, gani pabalika na ninyo ako sa akon amo.”
Nagsabat sila, “Tawgon ta anay si Rebeka kag pamangkuton kon ano sa iya.”
Gani gintawag nila si Rebeka kag ginpamangkot, “Gusto mo bala nga mag-upod sa iya subong?” Nagsabat si Rebeka, “Huo, maupod ako.”
Gani, ginpaupod nila si Rebeka pati ang iya manug-atipan sa suluguon ni Abraham kag sa iya mga kaupod.
Nagsabat si Abraham, “Indi gid pagdal-a si Isaac didto!
ang ila mga kaaway.”
Sang handa na ang tanan, nagsakay si Rebeka kag ang iya mga suluguon nga babayi sa mga camel, kag nagsunod sila sa suluguon ni Abraham.
Karon, si Isaac nga didto na nagaestar sa Negev bag-o lang nag-abot halin sa Beer Lahai Roi.
Sang mga sirom na, nagguwa si Isaac kag naglakat-lakat sa latagon. May nakita siya nga mga camel nga nagapadulong.
Sang makita ni Rebeka si Isaac, nagpanaog siya sa iya camel
kag nagpamangkot sa suluguon ni Abraham, “Sin-o inang tawo sa latagon nga nagapadulong sa aton?” Nagsabat ang suluguon, “Siya ang akon amo nga si Isaac nga si Isaac .” Gani gintabunan ni Rebeka ang iya guya sang belo.
Ginsugid sang suluguon kay Isaac ang tanan niya nga ginhimo.
Dayon gindala ni Isaac si Rebeka didto sa tolda nga gin-estaran sadto sang iya iloy nga si Sara. Nangin asawa niya si Rebeka kag palangga gid niya siya. Gani naumpawan si Isaac sa iya kasubo tungod sa pagkapatay sang iya iloy.
Gindala ako diri sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang langit, halin sa panimalay sang akon amay, sa lugar nga sa diin ako natawo. Kag nagpanumpa siya nga ihatag niya ini nga duta sang Canaan sa akon mga kaliwat. Gani maglakat ka kay magapadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang iya anghel sa pag-upod sa imo para makakita ka didto sang palangasaw-on sang akon anak.
Kon indi mag-upod ang babayi sa imo, wala ka sing salabton sa sining sumpa mo sa akon. Pero indi lang pagdal-a didto ang akon anak.”
Gani ginbutang sang suluguon ang iya kamot sa tunga-tunga sang duha ka paa ni Abraham nga iya amo, kag nagsumpa siya nga tumanon niya ang ginsugo sa iya.
Nagpangasawa liwat si Abraham, kag ang ngalan sang iya asawa si Ketura.
Ato nga uma ginbakal ni Abraham sa presensya sang mga Hithanon. Didto ginlubong si Abraham kag ang iya asawa nga si Sara.
Pagkatapos nga napatay si Abraham, ginbendisyunan sang Dios si Isaac kag didto siya nag-estar sa Beer Lahai Roi.
Amo ini ang estorya parte sa pamilya ni Ishmael nga anak ni Abraham kay Hagar nga Egyptohanon, nga ulipon ni Sara.
Nebayot, Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
Mishma, Duma, Masa,
Nafish, kag Kedema.
Sila ang mga anak ni Ishmael, kag nangin pangulo sila sang dose ka tribo nga mga kaliwat ni Ishmael. Ang ila mga ngalan amo ang ginpangalan sa mga lugar nga ila gin-estaran.
Nagkabuhi si Ishmael sing 137 ka tuig. Napatay siya kag ginsimpon siya sa iya mga paryente nga nagkalamatay na nga nagkalamatay na .
Nag-estar ang iya mga kaliwat sa mga lugar nga halin sa Havila hasta sa Shur, sa east sang Egypt nga pakadto sa Assyria. Ginkontra nila ang tanan nila nga mga paryente nga mga kaliwat ni Isaac nga mga kaliwat ni Isaac .
Amo ini ang estorya parte sa pamilya ni Isaac nga anak ni Abraham.
Ang ila mga anak amo sila ni Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, kag Shua.
Nagaedad si Isaac sing 40 ka tuig sang magpangasawa siya kay Rebeka nga anak ni Betuel nga Arameanhon nga taga-Padan Aram.
Tungod kay baw-as si Rebeka, nagpangamuyo si Isaac sa Ginoo Ginoo nga makabata siya. Ginsabat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya pangamuyo, gani nagbusong si Rebeka.
Nabatyagan niya nga nagadis-uganay ang kapid nga bata sa sulod sang iya tiyan. Nagsiling si Rebeka, “Ngaa amo ini ang nagakatabo sa akon?” Gani nagpamangkot siya sa Ginoo Ginoo parte sini.
Ang magulang magaalagad sa manghod.”
Sang nagbata na si Rebeka, ang iya bata kapid.
Ang una nga nagguwa mapula-pula kag balahibuhon, gani gin-ngalanan nila siya nga Esau.
Sang pagguwa sang ikaduha, ang iya kamot nagauyat sa tikod sang iya kapid, gani gin-ngalanan nila siya nga Jacob.
Sang nagdako na ang duha ka bata, nangin maabtik nga mangangayam si Esau kag permi lang siya sa latagon samtang si Jacob ya hipuson nga tawo kag permi lang nagatiner sa mga tolda.
Mas nagustuhan ni Isaac si Esau tungod kay gusto niya permi magkaon sang mga pinangayaman ni Esau, pero si Jacob amo ang mas nagustuhan ni Rebeka.
Isa ka adlaw, samtang nagaluto si Jacob sang sopas, nag-abot si Esau halin sa pagpangayam nga gutom gid katama.
Si Jokshan amo ang amay ni Sheba kag ni Dedan. Ang mga kaliwat ni Dedan amo ang mga Ashurnon, Letushnon, kag Leumnon.
Nagsiling siya kay Jacob, “Abi, pakan-a ako sinang ginaluto mo nga mapula kay gutom gid ako katama.” (Amo ina nga gintawag si Esau nga Edom.
Pero nagsabat si Jacob, “Hatagan ko ikaw sini kon ihatag mo sa akon ang imo kinamatarong bilang magulang.”
Nagsiling si Esau, “Sige, kay anhon ko man ina nga kinamatarong kon mapatay man lang ako sa kagutom.”
Nagsabat si Jacob, “Kon amo sina, magsumpa ka anay sa akon.” Gani nagsumpa si Esau nga mangin iya na ni Jacob ang iya kinamatarong bilang magulang.
Ginhatagan dayon siya ni Jacob sang tinapay kag sopas. Pagkatapos niya kaon kag inom, naglakat siya dayon. Sa sadtong ginhimo ni Esau, ginbaliwala niya ang iya kinamatarong bilang magulang.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Midian amo sila ni Efa, Efer, Hanoc, Abida, kag Eldaa. Amo ini sila tanan ang mga kaliwat ni Ketura.
Nagkabuhi si Abraham sing 175 ka tuig.
Napatay siya nga tigulang na gid, kag ginsimpon siya sa iya mga paryente nga nagkalamatay na nga nagkalamatay na .
Ginlubong siya sang iya mga anak nga si Isaac kag si Ishmael didto sa kuweba sa Macpela, sa east sang Mamre, sa uma nga iya anay ni Efron nga anak ni Zohar nga Hithanon.
May gutom nga nag-abot sa lugar nga ginaestaran ni Isaac nga ginaestaran ni Isaac , wala labot sadtong gutom nga nag-abot sang panahon pa ni Abraham. Gani nagkadto si Isaac kay Abimelec nga hari sang mga Filistinhon sa Gerar.
Nagsiling si Abimelec, “Indi maayo ang ginhimo mo sa amon. Kon natabo abi nga ang isa sa akon mga tinawo naghulid sa iya, ikaw kuntani ang kabangdanan sang amon pagpakasala.”
Ginpaandaman dayon ni Abimelec ang tanan nga tawo. Siling niya, “Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sang malain sa sini nga lalaki ukon sa iya asawa pagapatyon gid.”
Nagpananom si Isaac sa sadto nga lugar kag nakapatubas siya sing 100 ka pilo sa sina mismo nga tuig, tungod kay ginpakamaayo siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagpadayon ang iya pag-uswag hasta nga nagmanggaranon na gid siya katama.
Nahisa sa iya ang mga Filistinhon tungod kay madamo na ang iya mga karnero, kanding, baka, kag mga suluguon.
Ginpangtampukan nila sang duta ang mga bubon nga ginpangkutkot sadto sang mga suluguon sang iya amay nga si Abraham.
Karon, nagsiling si Abimelec kay Isaac, “Halin ka na diri, kay madamo na kamo katama para sa amon.”
Gani naghalin si Isaac, kag nagpatindog siya sang iya tolda sa Gerar nga ililigan sang tubig, kag didto na nag-estar.
Ginpakutkutan niya liwat ang mga bubon sang iya amay nga si Abraham nga gintabunan sang mga Filistinhon pagkatapos nga napatay si Abraham. Gin-ngalanan ni Isaac ang mga bubon sang amo man gihapon nga ngalan nga ginhatag sadto anay ni Abraham.
Didto sa hubas nga hubas nga ililigan sang tubig, nagkutkot sang bag-o nga bubon ang mga suluguon ni Isaac kag nakasapo sila sang tuburan.
Nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya kag nagsiling, “Indi ka magkadto sa Egypt; magpabilin ka sa lugar nga itudlo ko sa imo.
Pero ginbais sang mga bakiro nga taga-Gerar ang mga bakiro ni Isaac nga ila kuno atong bubon. Gani gin-ngalanan ni Isaac ang bubon nga Esek,
Nagkutkot liwat ang mga suluguon ni Isaac sang lain nga bubon, pero ginlalisan man nila ini gihapon sang mga taga-Gerar. Gani gin-ngalanan ni Isaac ang bubon nga Sitna.
Naghalin sila ni Isaac didto kag nagkutkot liwat sang lain pa gid nga bubon. Wala na nila ini paglalisi, gani gin-ngalanan ini ni Isaac nga Rehobot.
Sang ulihi naghalin si Isaac sa sadto nga lugar kag nagkadto sa Beersheba.
Sadto gid nga gab-i sang pag-abot niya, nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya kag nagsiling, “Ako ang Dios sang imo amay nga si Abraham. Indi ka magkahadlok kay kaupod mo ako. Pakamaayuhon ko ikaw kag hatagan sang madamo nga kaliwat tungod kay Abraham nga akon alagad.”
Gani naghimo si Isaac sang halaran kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagpatindog siya sang tolda sa sadto nga lugar kag nagpakutkot sang bubon sa iya mga suluguon.
Nagkadto si Abimelec kay Isaac halin sa Gerar kaupod si Ahuzat nga iya manuglaygay kag si Ficol nga pangulo sang iya mga soldado.
Nagpamangkot si Isaac sa ila, “Ngaa nagkadto kamo sa akon? Indi bala nga akig kamo sa akon, kag amo gani nga ginpahalin ninyo ako sa inyo lugar?”
Nagsabat sila, “Nareyalisar namon nga ang Ginoo Ginoo kaupod mo, gani naghunahuna kami nga dapat maghimo kita sang kasugtanan nga may panumpa. Ipromisa mo sa amon
nga indi mo kami pag-anhon, tungod kay wala ka man namon pag-anha sang didto ka pa sa amon. Gintratar ka namon sing maayo kag ginpahalin nga maayo ang aton relasyon. Karon, kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka pa gid sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Diri ka lang anay mag-estar kay pagaupdan ko ikaw kag pakamaayuhon. Ihatag ko sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat ini tanan nga duta. Tumanon ko ang akon ginpromisa sa imo amay nga si Abraham.
Gani nagpapunsyon si Isaac para sa ila kag nagkinaon sila kag nag-ininom.
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nagpanumpa sila sa isa kag isa. Dayon ginpalakat sila ni Isaac nga maayo ang ila relasyon.
Sadto man nga adlaw, nag-abot ang mga suluguon ni Isaac kag nagsugid sa iya nga may tubig ang bubon nga ila ginkutkot.
Gin-ngalanan ni Isaac ato nga bubon nga Shiba. Gani hasta subong ang ato nga lugar ginatawag nga Beersheba.
Sang nagaedad na si Esau sang 40 ka tuig, nagpangasawa siya kay Judit nga anak ni Beeri nga Hithanon. Ginpangasawa pa gid niya si Basemat nga anak ni Elon nga Hithanon man.
Ining duha ka babayi nakapasubo gid sa kay Isaac kag kay Rebeka.
Padamuon ko ang imo mga kaliwat pareho sa kadamuon sang mga bituon sa langit, kag ihatag ko sa ila ini tanan nga duta. Kag paagi sa ila, pakamaayuhon ko ang tanan nga katawhan sa kalibutan.
Himuon ko ini tungod kay nagtuman si Abraham sa akon. Nagtuman siya sa tanan ko nga kasuguan kag pagpanudlo.”
Gani didto nag-estar si Isaac sa Gerar.
Matahom si Rebeka, gani kon magpamangkot ang mga taga-Gerar sa kay Isaac parte sa iya asawa ginasabat niya nga utod niya si Rebeka. Nahadlok siya magsiling nga asawa niya kay basi kon patyon nila siya para makuha si Rebeka.
Madugay-dugay na ang pagtiner nila ni Isaac didto sa Gerar. Kag isa sina ka adlaw, natabuan nga nagpamintana si Abimelec nga hari sang mga Filistinhon kag nakita niya nga nagaanggaanay si Isaac kag Rebeka.
Gani ginpatawag niya si Isaac kag ginsilingan, “Asawa mo gali siya? Ngaa nagsiling ka nga utod mo siya?” Nagsabat si Isaac, “Nahadlok abi ako nga basi patyon ninyo ako tungod sa iya.”
Tigulang na gid si Isaac kag halos indi na makakita. Isa sadto ka tion, gintawag niya ang kamagulangan niya nga anak nga si Esau. Siling niya, “Anak.” Nagsabat si Esau, “Ano, tay?”
Dayon dal-on mo ini sa iya para bendisyunan ka niya sa wala pa siya mapatay.”
Pero nagsiling si Jacob sa iya iloy, “Nakahibalo ka nga balahibuhon si Esau kag ako ya indi.
Basi hikapon ako ni tatay kag mahibaluan niya nga ginatunto ko lang siya kag pakamalauton niya ako imbes nga bendisyunan.”
Nagsabat si Rebeka, “Anak, ako ang manabat kon pakamalauton ka, basta himua lang ang akon ginasugo sa imo. Lakat na kag kuhai ako sang kanding sang kanding .”
Gani nagkuha si Jacob sang duha ka kanding kag gindala niya sa iya iloy, kag ginluto ni Rebeka ang paborito nga pagkaon ni Isaac.
Dayon ginkuha niya ang pinakamaayo nga bayo ni Esau nga didto sa balay kag ginpasuksok kay Jacob.
Ginbutangan niya sang panit sang kanding ang butkon ni Jacob pati ang iya liog nga indi balahibuhon.
Dayon ginhatag niya kay Jacob ang pagkaon kag ang tinapay nga ginluto niya.
Gindala ato ni Jacob sa iya amay kag nagsiling, “Tay!” Nagsiling si Isaac, “Sin-o ka nga anak ko?”
Nagsabat si Jacob, “Ako si Esau, ang kamagulangan mo nga anak. Nahimo ko na ang imo ginsugo sa akon. Bangon anay kag magkaon sining akon pinangayaman para mabendisyunan mo ako.”
Nagsiling si Isaac, “Tigulang na gid ako kag sa indi siguro madugay mapatay na ako.
Nagsiling si Isaac, “Anak, paano mo ini nakuha dayon?” Nagsabat si Jacob, “Ginbuligan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios.”
Nagsiling si Isaac, “Palapit pa gid sa akon anak para mahikap ko kon ikaw gid bala matuod si Esau.”
Gani nagpalapit si Jacob, kag ginhikap siya sang iya amay kag nagsiling, “Ang imo tingog daw iya ni Jacob pero ang imo butkon daw iya ni Esau.”
Antes niya ginbendisyunan si Jacob,
nagpamangkot pa gid siya, “Ikaw gid bala matuod si Esau?” Nagsabat si Jacob, “Huo, ako gid.”
Nagsiling si Isaac, “Abi, dal-a diri ang imo ginluto halin sa imo pinangayaman, kay pagkatapos ko kaon bendisyunan ko ikaw.” Gani ginhatagan siya ni Jacob sang pagkaon kag ilimnon, kag nagkaon siya kag nag-inom.
Dayon nagsiling si Isaac sa iya, “Palapit sa akon, anak, kag haluki ako.”
nga ginbendisyunan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
para bugana ang imo mga uyas kag duga sang ubas.
kag ang nagapakamaayo sa imo pakamaayuhon man.”
Maayo pa nga kuhaon mo ang imo pana kag magkadto ka sa latagon kag magpangayam para sa akon.
Pagkatapos bendisyon ni Isaac kay Jacob, naglakat dayon si Jacob. Bag-o lang gid siya nakalakat kag umabot man dayon si Esau halin sa pagpangayam.
Nagluto man siya sang manamit nga pagkaon kag iya ini gindala sa iya amay. Nagsiling siya, “Tay, bangon ka kag magkaon sining akon pinangayaman para mabendisyunan mo ako.”
Nagpamangkot si Isaac sa iya, “Sin-o ka?” Nagsabat siya, “Ako si Esau, ang kamagulangan mo nga anak.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Isaac, nagpalangurog siya kag nagsiling, “Sin-o gali atong nagpangayam kag nagdala diri sa akon sang pagkaon? Bag-o ko pa lang ato ginkaon kag umabot ka dayon. Ginhatag ko na sa iya ang akon bendisyon kag indi ko na gid ato mabawi.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Esau, puwerte gid ang iya hilibion. Siling niya, “Tay, bendisyuni man ako!”
Pero nagsabat si Isaac, “Gintunto ako sang imo manghod kag nakuha na niya ang akon bendisyon nga para kuntani sa imo.”
Nagsiling si Esau, “Ikaduha na ini ka beses nga iya ako gintunto. Gai ko man nga Jacob
Nagsabat si Isaac, “Ginhimo ko na siya nga imo agalon kag ginhimo ko man ang tanan niya nga mga paryente nga iya mga suluguon. Nahatag ko na sa iya ang bugana nga mga uyas kag duga sang ubas. Gani ano pa ang akon mahimo para sa imo anak?”
Nagpakitluoy pa gid si Esau sa iya amay, “Tay, wala ka na gid bala sing bisan isa lang ka bendisyon? Bendisyuni man ko bi.” Kag naghibi pa gid siya.
kag wala ini permi sang tun-og nga grasya sang Dios.
Dayon, lutui ako sang akon paborito nga pagkaon kag dal-on mo dayon sa akon kay kaunon ko. Pagkatapos bendisyunan ko ikaw sa wala pa ako mapatay.”
mahilway ka sa iya gahom.”
Gindumtan ni Esau si Jacob tungod sa bendisyon nga ginhatag sang iya amay kay Jacob. Nagsiling si Esau sa iya kaugalingon, “Dali na lang mapatay si tatay; kon mapatay na gani siya, patyon ko si Jacob.”
Pero nabalitaan ni Rebeka ang plano ni Esau, gani ginpatawag niya si Jacob kag ginhambalan, “Ang imo magulang nga si Esau nagaplano sa pagpatay sa imo para maumpawan siya sa iya kaakig sa imo.
Gani pamati ka sa akon isiling: Magpalagyo ka sa Haran, didto sa akon utod nga si Laban.
Didto ka lang anay hasta nga maghaganhagan ang kaakig sang imo magulang,
kag malipatan na niya ang imo ginhimo sa iya. Ipasugat ko lang ugaling ikaw didto kon indi na siya akig sa imo. Indi ko gusto nga madula kamo nga duha sa akon sa isa lang ka adlaw.”
Karon, nagsiling si Rebeka kay Isaac, “Ginatak-an na gid ako sang akon kabuhi tungod sining mga asawa ni Esau nga mga Hithanon. Kon ang mangin asawa ni Jacob taga-diri man nga babayi nga Hithanon maayo pa nga mapatay na lang ako.”
Nagapamati gali si Rebeka samtang nagahambal si Isaac kay Esau. Gani sang nakalakat na si Esau sa latagon sa pagpangayam,
ginsilingan ni Rebeka ang iya anak nga si Jacob, “Nabatian ko nga ginsilingan ni tatay mo si Esau nga
magpangayam kag lutuan siya dayon sang iya paborito nga pagkaon. Kay sa wala pa kuno siya mapatay bendisyunan niya si Esau sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani anak, tumana ang akon isugo sa imo:
Kadto didto sa aton mga kasapatan kag magkuha ka sang duha ka bataon kag matambok nga kanding, kay lutuan ko ang imo amay sang paborito niya nga pagkaon.
Gani ginpatawag ni Isaac si Jacob. Pag-abot niya, ginbendisyunan niya siya kag ginmanduan, “Indi ka gid magpangasawa sang taga-Canaan.
Naghalin si Jacob sa Beersheba kag naglakat pakadto sa Haran.
Sang nagsalop na ang adlaw, nakaabot siya sa isa ka lugar kag didto siya nagpabilin sadto nga gab-i. Nagkuha siya sang isa ka bato kag iya gin-unlan sa iya pagtulog.
Karon, nagdamgo siya nga may isa ka hagdan nga nagatindog sa duta nga lambot hasta sa langit. Nakita niya ang mga anghel sang Dios nga nagasaka-panaog sa hagdan.
Nakita man niya ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagatindog sa ibabaw sang hagdan
Ang imo mga kaliwat mangin pareho kadamo sang yab-ok sa duta. Magalapta sila sa nagkalain-lain nga parte sang sini nga duta. Paagi sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat, pakamaayuhon ko ang tanan nga katawhan sa kalibutan.
Tandai gid permi nga kaupod mo ako kag bantayan ko ikaw bisan diin ka makadto. Pabalikon ko ikaw sa sini nga duta kag indi ko ikaw pagbayaan hasta nga matuman ko ang akon promisa sa imo.”
Nakabugtaw dayon si Jacob kag nagsiling sa iya kaugalingon, “Wala ako kahibalo nga ari gali diri ang Ginoo Ginoo sa sini nga lugar.”
Kinulbaan siya kag nagsiling, “Daw ano ka makatilingala ang ini nga lugar! Puluy-an ini sang Dios kag diri mismo ang puwertahan pakadto sa langit.”
Aga pa gid nagbangon si Jacob. Ginkuha niya ang bato nga iya gin-unlan kag ginpatindog bilang isa ka handumanan. Dayon ginbubuan niya ini sang lana para mangin sagrado para mangin sagrado .
Gin-ngalanan ni Jacob ato nga lugar nga Betel.
Maghimos ka kag magkadto sa Padan Aram, didto kay lolo mo lolo mo Betuel nga amay sang imo iloy. Pangasaw-a didto ang isa sa mga dalaga nga anak ni Laban nga utod sang imo iloy.
Nagsumpa dayon si Jacob nga nagasiling, “O Dios, kon updan mo ako kag bantayan sa sining akon pagpanglakaton kag hatagan sang pagkaon kag bayo,
kag kon makabalik ako sa balay sang akon amay nga wala sing malain nga natabo sa akon, kilalahon ko ikaw, Ginoo, Ginoo, nga akon Dios.
Ining bato nga akon ginpatindog bilang isa ka handumanan magapamatuod sang imo presensya sa sini nga lugar.
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Makagagahom nga Dios kag hatagan sang madamo nga kaliwat para mangin amay ka sang madamo nga grupo sang mga katawhan.
Kabay pa nga ihatag man niya sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat ang pagpakamaayo nga ginhatag niya kay Abraham, para mangin imo ini nga duta nga imo ginaestaran subong bilang pangayaw. Ini nga duta ginhatag sang Dios kay Abraham.”
Ginpalakat dayon ni Isaac si Jacob sa Padan Aram, sa lugar ni Laban nga anak ni Betuel nga Arameanhon. Si Laban utod ni Rebeka nga iloy ni Jacob kag ni Esau.
Nahibaluan ni Esau nga ginbendisyunan ni Isaac si Jacob kag ginpakadto sa Padan Aram para didto mangita sang palangasaw-on. Nahibaluan man niya nga sang pagbendisyon ni Isaac kay Jacob, ginmanduan niya siya nga indi magpangasawa sang taga-Canaan.
Kag nahibaluan man niya nga nagtuman si Jacob sa ila ginikanan kag nagkadto sa Padan Aram.
Gani natalupangdan ni Esau nga indi gali gusto sang iya amay ang mga babayi nga taga-Canaan.
Gani nagkadto siya sa iya tiyo nga si Ishmael nga anak ni Abraham kay Hagar kay Hagar . Luwas sang iya duha ka asawa, ginpangasawa pa gid niya si Mahalat nga anak ni Ishmael kag utod ni Nebayot.
Nagpadayon si Jacob sa iya pagpanglakaton hasta nga nakaabot siya sa duta sang mga taga-east.
Pagkakita ni Jacob kay Raquel nga anak sang iya tiyo nga si Laban, kaupod sang mga karnero ni Laban, nagkadto siya sa bubon kag ginpaligid niya ang bato kag ginpainom ang mga karnero sang iya tiyo nga si Laban.
Pagkatapos ginhalukan niya si Raquel kag naghibi siya sa kalipay.
Nagsiling siya kay Raquel, “Bata ako ni Rebeka, gani hinablos ako ni tatay mo.” Nagdalagan puli si Raquel kag ginsugiran ang iya amay.
Pagkabati ni Laban nga ara si Jacob nga iya hinablos kay Rebeka, nagdali-dali siya sa pagsugata sa iya. Ginhakos niya si Jacob kag ginhalukan kag gindala sa ila balay. Kag didto ginsugid ni Jacob kay Laban ang tanan nga nagkalatabo.
Pagkaligad sang isa ka bulan nga pagtiner ni Jacob sa ila ni Laban,
nagsiling si Laban sa iya, “Indi maayo nga mag-obra ka para sa akon nga wala sing suhol tungod lang kay hinablos ko ikaw. Sugiri ako kon ano ang gusto mo nga isuhol ko sa imo.”
May duha ka anak si Laban nga dalaga. Si Lea ang magulang kag si Raquel ang manghod.
Tungod kay naluyag si Jacob kay Raquel, nagsiling siya kay Laban, “Magaserbisyo ako sa imo sing pito ka tuig kon ipaasawa mo sa akon si Raquel.”
Nagsabat si Laban, “Mas maayo pa nga sa imo ko siya ipaasawa sang sa iban nga lalaki. Pabilin ka lang diri.”
Didto may nakita siya sa latagon nga isa ka bubon nga sa tupad sini may nagaluko nga tatlo ka panong sang mga karnero, kay didto nagakuha ang mga tawo sang tubig nga ipainom sa mga karnero. Ini nga bubon ginatakpan sang dako nga bato.
Gani nagserbisyo si Jacob kay Laban sing pito ka tuig para lang mapangasawa niya si Raquel. Tungod sa iya paghigugma kay Raquel daw pila lang ka adlaw sa iya ang pito ka tuig.
Pagkaligad sang pito ka tuig, Pagkaligad sang pito ka tuig, nagsiling si Jacob kay Laban, “Natapos na ang akon pagserbisyo sa imo, gani ihatag na sa akon si Raquel para mag-upod na kami.”
Nagsugot si Laban, Nagsugot si Laban, gani naghiwat siya sang punsyon kag gin-imbitar niya ang tanan nga tawo sa sina nga lugar.
Pero pagkagab-i, imbes nga si Raquel ang dal-on ni Laban kay Jacob, si Lea ang iya gindala. Kag naghulid si Jacob kay Lea.
(Ginhatag ni Laban kay Lea ang iya ulipon nga babayi nga si Zilpa para mangin ulipon ni Lea.)
Pagkaaga, nahibaluan ni Jacob nga si Lea gali ang iya kahulid. Gani ginkadtuan niya si Laban kag ginsilingan, “Ngaa ginhimo mo ini sa akon? Nagserbisyo ako sa imo para mapangasawa ko si Raquel. Karon ngaa nga gintunto mo ako?”
Nagsabat si Laban, “Indi ina kinabatasan diri sa amon lugar nga ipaasawa ang manghod una sa magulang.
Hulata lang nga matapos ang isa ka semana nga pagsaulog sining kasal kay ipaasawa ko dayon sa imo si Raquel, ina kon magserbisyo ka liwat sa akon sing pito pa gid ka tuig.”
Nagsugot si Jacob sa ginsiling ni Laban. Pagkatapos sang isa ka semana nga pagsaulog sang kasal nila ni Lea, ginpaasawa ni Laban sa iya si Raquel.
(Ginhatag ni Laban kay Raquel ang iya ulipon nga babayi nga si Bilha para mangin ulipon ni Raquel.)
Ginahulat anay sang mga manugbantay sang karnero nga makatipon ang tanan nga karnero antes nila paligiron ang takop nga bato. Pagkatapos nila painom sang mga karnero, ginauli nila ang bato.
Gani naghulid man si Jacob kay Raquel. Mas palangga niya si Raquel sang sa kay Lea. Nagserbisyo si Jacob kay Laban sing pito pa gid ka tuig.
Nakita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi palangga ni Jacob si Lea, gani ginbuot niya nga makapamata si Lea, pero si Raquel ya indi.
Nagbusong si Lea kag nagbata sing lalaki kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Reuben,
Nagbusong siya liwat kag nagbata sing isa naman ka lalaki. Nagsiling siya, “Ginhatagan liwat ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sing isa ka anak nga lalaki kay nakabati siya nga wala ako ginahigugma sang akon bana.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Simeon.
Nagbusong liwat si Lea kag nagbata sing isa pa gid ka lalaki. Nagsiling siya, “Karon mangin malapit na sa akon ang akon bana kay tatlo na ang amon anak nga lalaki.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Levi.
Nagbusong pa gid liwat si Lea kag nagbata sing isa naman ka lalaki. Nagsiling siya, “Karon dayawon ko ang Ginoo Ginoo .” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Juda.
Karon, nagpamangkot si Jacob sa mga manugbantay sang karnero, “Mga abyan, taga-diin kamo?” Nagsabat sila, “Taga-Haran.”
Nagpamangkot liwat si Jacob, “Kilala bala ninyo si Laban nga apo ni Nahor?” Nagsabat sila, “Huo, kilala namon.”
Nagpadayon sa pagpamangkot si Jacob, “Ti, kamusta siya?” Nagsabat sila, “Maayo man. Tan-awa, ara ang iya anak nga si Raquel nga nagapakadto diri upod sang mga karnero.”
Nagsiling si Jacob sa ila, “Tungod kay temprano pa man kag indi pa tion sa pagtipon sang mga karnero, maayo siguro nga paimnon ninyo sila kag pahalbon liwat.”
Nagsabat sila, “Indi namon ina mahimo kon indi anay matipon ang tanan nga karnero. Kon diri na gani ang tanan, amo na ina ang pagpaligid namon sa takop nga bato para paimnon sila.”
Nagahambal pa si Jacob sa ila sang mag-abot si Raquel dala ang mga karnero sang iya amay, tungod kay siya ang nagabantay sini.
Si Raquel wala gihapon nagbusong, gani nahisa siya kay Lea. Nagsiling siya kay Jacob, “Hatagi ako sang anak kay kon indi, mapatay gid ako!”
Nagbusong si Zilpa kag nagbata sing lalaki.
Nagsiling si Lea, “Daw ano nga suwerte.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Gad.
Nagbata liwat si Zilpa sang lalaki nga ikaduha nila nga anak ni Jacob.
Nagsiling si Lea, “Malipayon gid ako! Karon magatawag ang mga babayi sa akon nga malipayon.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Asher.
Isa sadto ka tion sang tig-alani sang trigo,
Pero nagsabat si Lea, “Indi ka pa bala kontento nga ginkuha mo ang akon bana? Kag karon kuhaon mo pa gid ang mga mandragora sang akon anak?” Nagsiling si Raquel, “Kon hatagan mo ako sang mga mandragora pahuliron ko si Jacob sa imo karon sa gab-i.”
Pag-abot ni Jacob halin sa uma sang sirom na, ginsugata siya ni Lea kag ginsilingan, “Kinahanglan diri ka sa akon maghulid karon nga gab-i, tungod kay ginbayaran ko na ikaw kay Raquel sang mga mandragora nga gindala sang akon anak.” Gani kay Lea naghulid si Jacob sadto nga gab-i.
Ginsabat sang Dios ang pangamuyo ni Lea kag nagbusong siya. Nagbata siya sang lalaki nga ikalima nila nga anak ni Jacob.
Nagsiling si Lea, “Ginpadyaan ako sang Dios kay ginhatag ko ang akon ulipon sa akon bana.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Isacar.
Nagbusong liwat si Lea kag nagbata sing lalaki nga ikaanom nila nga anak ni Jacob.
Naakig si Jacob sa iya kag ginsilingan siya, “Ngaa, Dios ako haw? Siya ang nagbuot nga indi ka makabata.”
Nagsiling siya, “Ginhatagan ako sang Dios sing maayo gid nga regalo. Padunggan na ako sini karon sang akon bana kay nahatagan ko na siya sing anom ka anak nga puro lalaki.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Zebulun.
Sang ulihi nagbata si Lea sing babayi kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Dina.
Wala man pagkalimti sang Dios si Raquel. Ginsabat niya ang iya pangamuyo nga makabata man siya.
Nagbusong siya kag nagbata sing lalaki. Nagsiling siya, “Ginkuha sang Dios ang akon kahuy-anan.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Jose,
“Kabay pa nga hatagan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sang isa pa ka bata.”
Pagkatapos nga nabata ni Raquel si Jose, nagsiling si Jacob kay Laban, “Tuguti na ako nga makapuli sa amon lugar.
Ihatag sa akon ang akon mga asawa nga ginserbisyuhan ko sa imo kag ang akon mga anak, kay mapuli na ako. Nakahibalo ka kon daw ano ang akon pagserbisyo sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Laban, “Kon mahimo indi anay. Suno sa akon pagpapakot, nahibaluan ko nga
Isiling lang kon pila ang isuhol ko sa imo kay bayaran ko ikaw.”
Nagsiling si Jacob, “Nakahibalo ka kon daw ano ang akon pagserbisyo sa imo kag kon daw ano ang pagdamo sang imo kasapatan tungod sa akon pagtatap.
Nagsiling si Raquel, “Kon amo sina, maghulid ka kay Bilha nga akon suluguon agod bisan paagi na lang sa iya makabaton man ako sang anak.”
Sang pag-abot ko diri, diutay pa lang ang imo kasapatan, pero subong madamo na gid, kay ginpakamaayo ka sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa akon. Karon dapat na siguro nga magpaninguha ako para sa akon kaugalingon nga panimalay.”
Nagpamangkot si Laban, “Ano bala ang gusto mo nga ibayad ko sa imo?” Nagsabat si Jacob, “Indi na lang ako pagsuhuli. Padayunon ko ang pagtatap sang imo kasapatan kon magsugot ka sa sini nga kondisyon:
Tan-awon ko karon ang imo mga kasapatan kag kuhaon ko ang itom nga mga karnero kag kambang nga mga kanding. Amo lang ina ang suhol ko.
Sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw, mahibaluan mo kon masaligan ako ukon indi kon usisaon mo ang mga sapat nga ginsuhol mo sa akon. Kon may makita ka nga kanding nga indi kambang ukon karnero nga indi itom, isipa ina nga kinawatan ko.”
Nagsabat si Laban, “Kon amo ina ang gusto mo, sugot ako.”
Pero sadto mismo nga adlaw, ginpain ni Laban ang kambang nga mga kanding nga lalaki kag babayi, pati ang itom nga mga karnero. Ginpaatipan niya ini sa iya mga anak nga lalaki.
Ginseparar niya ini kay Jacob sa kalayuon nga tatlo ka adlaw kon lakton. Ang nabilin nga mga sapat amo ang ginbantayan ni Jacob.
Karon, nagkuha si Jacob sang mga sanga sang alamo, abilyano, kag platano kag ginpanitan niya ang iban nga mga parte sini, gani may guray-guray nga puti kon tan-awon ang mga sanga.
Gani ginhatag niya si Bilha kay Jacob bilang asawa, kag naghulid si Jacob kay Bilha.
Pero lain ang ginhimo ni Jacob sa mga karnero: Samtang nagakastahanay ini nga mga sapat, Samtang nagakastahanay ini nga mga sapat, ginapaatubang niya sila sa iya iya kambang nga mga kanding kag sa itom nga mga kanding ni Laban. Sa sini nga paagi nakatipon man si Jacob sang iya kaugalingon nga mga sapat kag wala niya ini gin-impon sa mga sapat ni Laban.
Kon nagakastahanay na gani ang mga sapat nga maayo sing lawas didto sa ilimnan, ginabutang dayon ni Jacob ato nga mga sanga sa ila atubangan.
Pero kon ang mga sapat nga maluya ang nagakastahanay, wala niya ginabutang ang mga sanga. Gani ang mga maluya iya ni Laban kag ang mga maayo sing lawas iya ni Jacob.
Sa sini nga paagi, nagmanggaranon gid si Jacob. Madamo ang iya mga kasapatan pati na ang mga camel kag mga donkey. Madamo man ang iya mga ulipon nga lalaki kag babayi.
Sang ulihi nagbusong si Bilha kag nagbata sing lalaki.
Nagsiling si Raquel, “Ginkuha na sang Dios ang akon kahuy-anan. Ginsabat niya ang akon pangamuyo kay ginhatagan niya ako sang isa ka anak nga lalaki.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Dan.
Nagbusong liwat si Bilha nga suluguon ni Raquel kag nagbata sang lalaki nga ikaduha nila nga anak ni Jacob.
Nagsiling si Raquel, “Puwerte gid ang akon pakigsumpong sa akon utod, kag nagdaog ako.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Naftali.
Sang indi na si Lea makapamata, ginpaasawa niya kay Jacob ang iya ulipon nga si Zilpa.
Nakabati si Jacob nga ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Laban nagasiling, “Ginkuha ni Jacob ang halos tanan nga pagkabutang sang aton amay. Ang tanan niya nga manggad naghalin sa pagkabutang sang aton amay.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jacob, Nagsiling pa gid si Jacob, “Sang tion sang pagpahigal sang mga sapat, nagdamgo ako. Nakita ko nga ang mga lalaki nga kanding nga nagakasta sa mga babayi nga kanding mga kambang.
Sa akon nga damgo gintawag ako sang anghel sang Dios. Siling niya, ‘Jacob!’ Nagsabat ako sa iya
kag nagsiling siya dayon, ‘Tan-awa, tanan nga lalaki nga kanding nga nagakasta sa mga babayi nga kanding mga kambang. Ginhimo ko ini tungod kay nakita ko ang tanan nga ginahimo sa imo ni Laban.
Ako ang Dios nga nagpakita sa imo didto sa Betel, sa lugar nga sa diin ginbubuan mo sang lana ang bato nga ginpatindog mo bilang handumanan. Kag didto ka man nagsumpa sa akon. Karon, panghimos ka kag maghalin sa sini nga lugar kag magpuli sa lugar nga sa diin ka natawo.’ ”
Nagsabat si Raquel kag si Lea kay Jacob, “Wala na kami sing may mapanubli sa amon amay.
Iban na kami nga tawo sa iya pagtan-aw. Ginbaligya niya kami kag ubos na niya gasto ang amon bili.
Ang tanan nga manggad nga ginbawi sang Dios sa iya kag ginhatag sa imo kag ginhatag sa imo makabig namon nga amo ang palanublion namon kag sang amon mga anak. Gani tumana ang ginsiling sa imo sang Dios.”
Natabuan sadto nga naglakat si Laban sa pagpanggunting sang iya mga karnero, kag samtang wala siya ginkuha ni Raquel ang mga dios-dios sang iya tatay.
Natalupangdan man ni Jacob nga naglain na ang pagtratar ni Laban sa iya kaysa sang una.
Natunto ni Jacob si Laban nga Arameanhon tungod wala siya nagsugid nga mahalin na siya.
Sang paglakat ni Jacob, dala niya ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang. Nagtabok siya sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates kag nagpakadto sa kabukiran sang Gilead.
Tatlo na ka adlaw ang nagligad sang nahibaluan ni Laban nga naglayas sanday Jacob.
Gani ginlagas niya si Jacob upod ang iya mga paryente sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Nalambot nila sanday Jacob didto sa kabukiran sang Gilead.
Sadto nga gab-i, nagpakita ang Dios kay Laban nga Arameanhon sa damgo. Nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, “Indi pag-anha si Jacob.”
Nagapatindog sadto si Jacob sang iya tolda sa kabukiran sang Gilead sang naabtan siya ni Laban. Kag didto man nagpatindog sanday Laban sang ila mga tolda.
Nagsiling si Laban kay Jacob, “Ngaa ginhimo mo ini sa akon? Ngaa gintunto mo ako? Imo pa nga gindala ang akon mga anak nga daw sa mga bihag sa inaway.
Ngaa gintunto mo ako kag naglakat kamo nga wala maglisensya sa akon? Kon nagsiling lang kamo, akon pa kuntani kamo ginpalakat nga may sinadya sa sunata sang tamborin kag arpa.
Wala mo gani ako pagpahaluka sa akon mga apo kag mga anak paglakat nila. Indi gid maayo ining ginhimo mo.
May rason gid ako kuntani nga halitan ka, ugaling ginpaandaman ako kagab-i sang Dios sang imo amay nga indi ko ikaw pag-anhon.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jacob, “Pauli ka na sa lugar sang imo katigulangan, didto sa imo mga paryente, kag ako mangin kaupod mo.”
Nahibaluan ko nga nahidlaw ka na gid sa inyo, gani gusto mo na nga magpuli. Pero ngaa ginkawat mo ang akon mga dios-dios?”
Nagsabat si Jacob sa iya, “ Wala ako maglisensya sa imo Wala ako maglisensya sa imo kay nahadlok ako nga basi puwersahon mo ako nga bawion sa akon ang imo mga anak.
Pero kon parte sa imo mga dios-dios nga nadula, kon makita mo gani ini sa kay bisan sin-o sa amon, pagasilutan siya sang kamatayon. Sa atubangan sang aton mga paryente bilang mga saksi, tan-awa kon may pagkabutang ka diri sa amon kag kon may ara kuhaa.” Wala kahibalo si Jacob nga si Raquel gali ang nagkuha sang mga dios-dios ni Laban.
Gani ginpangita ni Laban ang iya mga dios-dios sa tolda ni Jacob, sa tolda ni Lea, kag pati sa tolda sang duha ka suluguon nga babayi nga mga asawa ni Jacob. Pero wala gid niya nakita ang iya mga dios-dios. Pagguwa niya sa tolda ni Lea, nagsulod siya dayon sa tolda ni Raquel.
Pero natago na ni Raquel ang mga dios-dios sa bulsa-bulsa sang hapin sa camel, kag iya ini nga ginpungkuan. Ginpangita ni Laban ang mga dios-dios didto sa tolda ni Raquel pero wala gid niya makita.
Nagsiling si Raquel sa iya, “Tay, indi ka lang mangakig kon indi ako makatindog kay ara abi ang akon pamulanon.” Kag padayon nga nagpangita si Laban pero wala gid niya makita ang iya mga dios-dios.
Wala na mapunggi ni Jacob ang iya kaakig, gani nagsiling siya kay Laban, “Ano bala nga krimen ang nahimo ko? Ano gid bala ang sala ko nga ginlagas mo gid ako?
Karon nga nausisa mo na ang tanan ko nga pagkabutang, ti, may nakita ka nga imo? Kon may ara, ibutang diri sa atubangan para makita sang akon mga paryente kag sang imo mga paryente, kag bahala na sila nga maghukom sa aton.
Sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig nga didto ako sa inyo, bisan kaisa lang wala gid mahar-asi
Wala ko na ginadala sa imo ang mga sapat nga ginpatay sang mabangis nga mga sapat; ginabayluhan ko na lang ini dayon. Ginpabayaran mo man sa akon ang mga sapat nga ginkawat kon adlaw bisan pa ang ginkawat kon gab-i.
Gani ginpatawag ni Jacob ang iya mga asawa nga si Raquel kag si Lea nga magkadto didto sa palahalban sang iya mga sapat.
Amo ini ang nangin situasyon ko: Kon adlaw nagaantos ako sa kainit, kag kon gab-i nagaantos ako sa katugnaw. Kag kulang ako permi sang tulog.
Sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig nga pag-estar ko sa inyo, 14 gid ka tuig nga nagserbisyo ako sa imo para sa imo duha ka anak nga babayi. Nagserbisyo pa gid ako sang anom ka tuig sa pagbantay sang imo mga kasapatan. Pero ano ang ginhimo mo? ano ang ginhimo mo? Kapulo mo nga ginliwat-liwat ang akon suhol.
Kon wala siguro ako pag-updi sang Dios nga ginatahod sang akon amay nga si Isaac, nga amo man ang Dios ni Abraham, basi ginpalayas mo na ako nga wala gid sing dala bisan ano. Pero nakita sang Dios ang akon kabudlayan kag pagtrabaho, gani ginsaway ka niya kagab-i.”
Nagsabat si Laban, “Ina nga mga babayi mga anak ko, kag ang ila mga anak mga apo ko. Kag ina nga mga sapat akon man. Tanan nga makita mo akon. Pero karon, ano pa ang mahimo ko sa akon mga anak kag mga apo?
Ang maayo siguro, mahimo kita sang kasugtanan. Mapatindog kita sang handumanan nga bato nga magapamatuod sang aton kasugtanan.”
Gani nagkuha si Jacob sang dako nga bato kag iya ini nga ginpatindog bilang handumanan.
Dayon ginsugo niya ang iya mga paryente nga magtumpok sang mga bato sa higad sini sa higad sini . Pagkatapos nagkaon sila didto sa tinumpok nga mga bato.
Gin-ngalanan ni Laban ang tinumpok nga mga bato nga Jegar Sahaduta.
Nagsiling si Laban, “Ining tinumpok nga mga bato magapamatuod sa kasugtanan naton nga duha.” Amo ina ang kabangdanan kon ngaa gin-ngalanan ato nga tinumpok nga Galeed.
Gintawag man ato nga Mizpa,
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Natalupangdan ko nga naglain na ang pagtratar sang inyo amay sa akon kaysa sang una. Pero wala ako pagpabay-i sang Dios sang akon amay.
Kag kon indi maayo ang pagtratar mo sa akon mga anak, ukon magpangasawa ka pa sang iban, dumduma nga bisan indi ako makahibalo, ara ang Dios nga nagapamatuod sang aton kasugtanan.”
Nagsiling pa gid liwat si Laban kay Jacob, “Ari ang tinumpok nga mga bato kag ang handumanan nga bato nga magapamatuod sang aton kasugtanan.
Ining tinumpok nga mga bato kag ang handumanan nga bato amo ang magapamatuod sang aton kasugtanan nga indi ako maglapaw sa sining tinumpok nga mga bato para salakayon ka, kag indi ka man maglapaw sa sining tinumpok nga mga bato kag sa handumanan nga bato para salakayon ako.
Kabay pa nga ang dios
Naghalad si Jacob sang sapat didto sa bukid, kag dayon gintawag niya ang iya mga paryente nga magkaon. Didto sila sa bukid nagtulog pagkagab-i.
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, ginpanghalukan ni Laban kag ginbendisyunan ang iya mga anak kag mga apo, kag naglakat siya puli.
Nakahibalo man kamo nga nagserbisyo ako sa inyo amay hasta sa akon masarangan,
pero gintunto pa niya ako. Napulo gid ka beses nga ginliwat-liwat niya ang akon suhol. Pero wala ako pagpabay-i sang Dios nga daog-daugon lang niya.
Kon magsiling gani si Laban nga ang kambang nga mga kanding amo ang suhol ko, puro man kambang ang bata sang mga kanding.
Ginkuha sang Dios ang kasapatan sang inyo amay kag ginhatag sa akon.”
Sang nagapadayon sila ni Jacob sa paglakat, ginsugata siya sang mga anghel sang Dios.
Indi ako takos nga magbaton sang tanan nga kaayo kag katutom nga imo na ginpakita sa akon nga imo suluguon. Kay sang pagtabok ko sang una sa Jordan wala ako sing iban nga dala kundi baston gid lang, pero subong may duha na ako ka grupo.
Nagapangabay ako sa imo nga luwason mo ako sa akon utod nga si Esau. Nahadlok ako basi magkadto siya diri kag pamatyon kami tanan pati ang mga iloy kag ang mga bata.
Pero nagpromisa ka sa akon nga pakamaayuhon mo ako kag padamuon mo ang akon mga kaliwat pareho sang balas sa baybayon nga indi maisip.”
Didto nagtulog sanday Jacob pagkagab-i. Pagkaaga, nagpili si Jacob sang mga sapat nga iregalo kay Esau:
200 ka babayi nga kanding kag 20 ka lalaki nga kanding, 200 ka babayi nga karnero kag 20 ka lalaki nga karnero,
30 ka gatasan nga camel upod pa ang ila mga bata, 40 ka babayi nga baka kag 10 ka turo nga baka, 20 ka babayi nga donkey kag 10 ka lalaki nga donkey.
Ginpanggrupo-grupo dayon ni Jacob ang mga sapat, kag ang kada grupo may mga suluguon nga nagabantay. Ginsilingan niya ang iya mga suluguon, “Una kamo sa akon, kag maglakat kamo nga may antad ang kada grupo.”
Ginsilingan niya ang mga suluguon nga nagabantay sa nauna nga grupo, “Kon magsugat-anay gani kamo ni Esau kag magpamangkot siya kon kay sin-o kamo suluguon kag kon diin kamo makadto, kag kon kay sin-o inang mga sapat nga dala ninyo,
sabton ninyo siya nga akon ini mga sapat kag regalo ko ini sa iya. Silingon man ninyo siya nga ara ako nagasunod.”
Amo man ang iya ginsiling sa ikaduha, sa ikatatlo kag sa tanan nga suluguon nga nagasunod sa mga sapat.
Pagkakita ni Jacob sa ila, nagsiling siya, “Mga soldado ini sang Dios.” Gani gin-ngalanan niya ato nga lugar nga Mahanaim.
Kag ginpadumdom gid niya sila nga indi nila pagkalimtan nga silingon si Esau nga ara siya nagasunod. Kay siling ni Jacob sa iya hunahuna, “Ulo-ulohan ko si Esau sa sining mga regalo nga ipauna ko. Kag kon magkitaay kami basi pa lang patawaron niya ako.”
Gani ginpauna niya ang iya mga regalo, pero siya ya nagpabilin sadto nga gab-i didto sa ila gintineran.
Sadto nga gab-i, nagbangon si Jacob kag gindala niya ang iya duha ka asawa, ang iya duha ka ulipon nga babayi kag ang iya onse ka anak, kag nagtabok sila sa talabukan sang Jabok.
Ginpatabok man ni Jacob ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
Karon, sang nagaisahanon siya, may nag-abot nga isa ka lalaki kag gindumog siya. Nagdumugay sila hasta mag-aga.
Sang mabulubanta sang tawo nga indi niya madaog si Jacob, ginpisga niya ang balikawang ni Jacob kag nagliw-as ang nagatabo nga tul-an sini.
Nagsiling dayon ang tawo, “Buy-i na ako kay kaagahon na.” Pero nagsabat si Jacob, “Indi ko ikaw pagbuy-an kon indi mo ako pagbendisyunan.”
Nagpamangkot ang tawo sa iya, “Sin-o ang imo ngalan?” Nagsabat siya, “Si Jacob.”
Nagsiling dayon ang tawo, “Sugod subong indi na Jacob ang imo ngalan kundi Israel
Nagpamangkot man si Jacob sa iya, “Sugiri man ako sang imo ngalan.” Pero nagsabat ang tawo, “Indi na pagpamangkuta ang akon ngalan.” Dayon ginbendisyunan niya si Jacob didto.
May mga ginsugo si Jacob nga mag-una sa iya para magpakigkita sa iya utod nga si Esau didto sa duta sang Seir, ang lugar nga gintawag man nga Edom.
Gin-ngalanan ni Jacob ato nga lugar nga Peniel,
Nagabutlak na ang adlaw sang paghalin ni Jacob sa Peniel.
Amo ini ang rason kon ngaa hasta subong ang mga Israelinhon wala nagakaon sang lanit-lanit sa tinabuan sang tul-an sa balikawang. Kay dira nga parte ginpisga sang Dios si Jacob.
Gintudluan niya sila kon ano ang ila isiling sa kay Esau. Siling ni Jacob, “Silingon ninyo si Esau nga didto ako nagtiner kay Laban kag wala pa gani ako makapuli hasta subong.
Kag sugiri ninyo siya nga Kag sugiri ninyo siya nga may mga baka ako, mga donkey, mga karnero, mga kanding, kag mga ulipon nga lalaki kag babayi. Silingon ninyo siya nga ginsugo ko kamo sa pagpangabay sa iya nga kuntani mangin maayo ang iya pagtratar sa akon.”
Pagbalik sang mga ginsugo ni Jacob, nagsiling sila, “Nakakadto kami kay Esau, kag nagapakadto na siya diri sa pagsugata sa imo. May upod siya nga 400 ka lalaki.”
Kinulbaan gid si Jacob kag indi siya mapahamtang, gani gintunga niya sa duha ka grupo ang iya mga kaupdanan pati ang iya mga karnero, baka, kanding kag camel.
Tungod kay naghunahuna siya nga kon pananglit gid man nga mag-abot si Esau kag salakayon ang isa ka grupo, makapalagyo pa ang isa ka grupo.
Nagpangamuyo dayon si Jacob, “Dios sang akon lolo nga si Abraham kag Dios sang akon amay nga si Isaac, ikaw ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagsiling sa akon nga mabalik ako sa akon mga paryente, didto sa duta nga sa diin ako natawo, kag pakamaayuhon mo ako.
Karon, pagtan-aw ni Jacob, nakita niya si Esau nga nagapadulong upod ang 400 ka lalaki. Gani ginpatipon niya ang iya mga anak sa ila tagsa-tagsa ka iloy.
Pero nagpamilit gid si Jacob, “Sige na, batuna na ato. Kon matuod-tuod nga ginabaton mo ako, batuna na ang regalo ko sa imo. Kay sang pagkakita ko sang imo hitsura daw nakita ko ang hitsura sang Dios. Karon nga ginbaton mo ako,
batuna na ang ginahatag ko sa imo tungod kay maayo ang Dios sa akon kag wala ako makulangi sa akon mga kinahanglanon.” Sagi gid pilit ni Jacob si Esau hasta nga ginbaton na lang ni Esau ang iya regalo.
Dayon nagsiling si Esau, “Dali na, malakat na kita. Ululupod na lang kita.”
Pero nagsabat si Jacob, “Nakahibalo ka nga mahinay maglakat ang mga bata, kag kinahanglan ko gid nga tatapon maayo ang mga sapat nga nagapatiti. Kon piliton ta ang mga sapat nga maglakat sa bilog nga adlaw, basi magkalamatay sila.
Ang maayo pa, mag-una ka na lang sa amon. Maamat-amat lang kami sunod sa imo suno sa kadasigon sang mga bata kag sang mga sapat sa una namon. Didto na lang kita magkitaay sa Seir.”
Nagsiling si Esau, “Kon amo sina, ibilin ko na lang ang iban ko nga mga tinawo sa imo.” Nagsabat si Jacob, “Indi na kinahanglan. Ang importante ginbaton mo ako.”
Gani nagbalik na lang si Esau sa Seir sadto mismo nga adlaw.
Pero didto nagpakadto sanday Jacob sa Sucot. Pag-abot nila didto, naghimo si Jacob sang elistaran kag ginhimuan man niya sang palasilungan ang iya mga kasapatan. Gani ato nga lugar gintawag nga Sucot.
Sang ulihi nakaabot gid man sila sa Canaan halin sa Padan Aram nga wala sing may malain nga natabo sa ila. Nakaabot sila sa banwa nga ginaestaran ni Shekem. Nagpatindog sila sang ila mga tolda malapit sa banwa.
Kag ang duta nga ginpatindugan nila sang mga tolda ginbakal ni Jacob sa mga anak ni Hamor sa bili nga 100 ka bilog nga pilak. Si Hamor amo man ang amay ni Shekem.
Kag paglakat nila, ginpauna niya ang duha ka ulipon nga babayi kag ang ila mga anak, sunod si Lea kag ang iya mga anak, kag dayon si Raquel kag ang iya anak nga si Jose.
Naghimo si Jacob didto sang halaran nga gin-ngalanan niya nga El Elohe Israel.
Nagauna si Jacob sa ila tanan kag makapila gid siya ka beses
Pero nagdalagan si Esau sa pagsugata sa iya. Ginhakos siya ni Esau kag ginhalukan, kag naghibi sila nga duha.
Sang makita ni Esau ang mga babayi kag ang mga kabataan, ginpamangkot niya si Jacob, “Sin-o inang kaupdanan mo?” Nagsabat si Jacob, “Sila ang akon mga anak nga ginhatag sang Dios sa akon sa iya kaluoy.”
Nagpalapit dayon kay Esau ang duha ka ulipon nga babayi kag ang ila mga anak, kag nagluhod sila bilang pagtahod sa iya bilang pagtahod sa iya .
Nagsunod man dayon si Lea kag ang iya mga anak nga nagluhod. Kag ang ulihi nga nagpalapit kag nagluhod amo si Jose kag ang iya iloy nga si Raquel.
Nagpamangkot si Esau kay Jacob, “Ano bala ang imo buot silingon sadtong mga grupo sang sapat nga nasugata ko?” Nagsiling si Jacob, “Regalo ko ato sa imo para batunon mo ako.”
Pero nagsabat si Esau, “Madamo na ang akon pagkabutang, utod ko, gani sa imo na lang ato.”
Isa sadto ka adlaw, naglakat si Dina nga anak nga dalaga ni Jacob kag ni Lea. Nagbisita siya sa mga kababayihan nga taga-Canaan.
Puwede kamo mag-estar upod sa amon sa bisan diin nga lugar nga gusto ninyo. Kag puwede man kamo diri makanegosyo bisan diin kag makaangkon sang duta.”
Nagpangabay man si Shekem sa amay kag sa mga utod ni Dina, “Kon mahimo ipaasawa na lang ninyo si Dina sa akon. Bisan ano ang inyo pangayuon ihatag ko.
Pagusto kamo kon pila ang pangayuon ninyo kag kon ano ang iregalo ko sa pagpangasawa ko sa inyo utod. Bayaran ko kamo bisan pila ang inyo pangayuon basta ipaasawa lang ninyo sa akon si Dina.”
Pero tungod kay ginhigkuan ni Shekem ang pagkatawo ni Dina, gintunto sang mga anak ni Jacob si Shekem kag ang iya amay nga si Hamor.
Siling nila, “Indi puwede nga ipaasawa namon si Dina sa tawo nga wala matuli, kay makahuluya ina para sa amon.
Masugot lang kami kon ang tanan nga lalaki nga taga-diri magpatuli man pareho sa amon.
Kon magpatuli kamo, puwede namon ipaasawa ang amon mga dalaga sa inyo kag kami puwede man makapangasawa sang inyo mga dalaga. Kag maestar kami upod sa inyo para mangin isa na lang kita ka katawhan.
Pero kon indi kamo magsugot, kuhaon namon si Dina kag maglakat.”
Nakita ni Hamor kag ni Shekem nga daw maayo man ang kondisyon nga ginhatag sang mga anak ni Jacob.
Si Shekem ginatahod gid sa panimalay sang iya amay.
Nakita siya ni Shekem nga anak ni Hamor nga Hivhanon, nga pangulo sang sadto nga lugar. Gindakop niya si Dina kag ginlugos.
Gani nagkadto siya dayon kag ang iya amay didto sa puwertahan sang banwa kag nagpakighambal sa mga lalaki sang ila banwa.
Siling nila, “Mainabyanon ini nga mga tawo. Gani diri na lang naton sila paestaron kag tugutan nga makanegosyo diri. Total, dako man ining aton lugar. Makapangasawa kita sa ila mga dalaga kag sila makapangasawa man sa aton mga dalaga.
Pero masugot lang sila nga mag-estar upod sa aton bilang isa ka katawhan kon magsugot man ang tanan ta nga lalaki nga magpatuli pareho sa ila.
Kon diri na sila mag-estar, kundi mangin aton man ang tanan nila nga kasapatan kag mga pagkabutang. Gani masugot na lang kita sa ila kondisyon para mag-estar sila upod sa aton.”
Nagsugot ang tanan nga lalaki sang banwa sa ginhambal ni Hamor kag sang iya anak nga si Shekem. Gani nagpatuli ang tanan nga lalaki.
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw, samtang ginahapdian pa ang mga lalaki, nagsulod sa banwa ang duha ka anak ni Jacob nga si Simeon kag si Levi, nga mga utod ni Dina. Wala kahibalo ang mga tawo didto nga malain gali ang ila tuyo. May dala sila nga espada kag ginpamatay nila ang tanan nga lalaki.
Ginpatay man nila si Hamor kag ang iya anak nga si Shekem. Ginkuha dayon nila si Dina sa balay ni Shekem kag naglakat.
Pagkatapos ginsulod man sang iban pa nga mga anak ni Jacob ang banwa kag ginpanguha ang mga pagkabutang sini. Ginhimo nila ini tungod kay ginhigkuan ang pagkatawo sang ila utod nga si Dina nga si Dina .
Ginpanguha nila ang mga karnero, mga baka, mga donkey, kag ang tanan nga pagkabutang didto sa banwa kag sa uma.
Ginpanguha nila ang tanan nga manggad sang banwa, pati ang mga pagkabutang sa sulod sang mga balay. Kag ginbihag nila ang tanan nga babayi kag kabataan.
Pero nahulog ang iya buot kay Dina kag naluyag siya sa iya, gani gin-uloulohan niya ang dalaga.
Karon, nagsiling si Jacob kay Simeon kag kay Levi, “Ginhatagan ninyo ako sang dako nga problema. Dumtan na kita karon sang mga Canaanhon kag mga Periznon sa sini nga lugar. Mapatay gid kita tanan kon mag-isa sila sa pagsalakay sa aton tungod kay diutay lang kita.”
Pero nagsabat ang duha, “Pabay-an lang bala namon nga trataron ang amon utod nga daw isa ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas?”
Karon, nagsiling si Shekem sa iya amay nga si Hamor, “Tay, pangitai abi sang paagi nga mapangasawa ko ang ina nga dalaga.”
Sang nahibaluan ni Jacob nga ginhigkuan ni Shekem ang pagkatawo ni Dina, wala lang siya anay sing may ginhimo kay didto pa sa uma ang iya mga anak nga lalaki nga nagabantay sang iya mga sapat.
Nagkadto ang amay ni Shekem nga si Hamor kay Jacob para magpakighambal sa iya.
Pagkabati sang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jacob sa natabo, nagpuli dayon sila. Naglain gid ang ila buot kag puwerte gid ang ila kaakig kay Shekem tungod kay naghimo siya sang butang nga indi dapat himuon, nga nagdala sang kahuy-anan sa pamilya ni Jacob.
Pero nagsiling si Hamor sa ila, “Naluyag gid ang akon anak nga si Shekem sa inyo nga dalaga, gani nagapangabay ako nga ipaasawa na lang ninyo siya sa iya.
Kag maayo man siguro nga ipaasawa ninyo ang inyo mga dalaga sa amon mga soltero kag ipaasawa man namon ang amon mga dalaga sa inyo mga soltero.
Karon, nagsiling ang Dios kay Jacob, “Magpanghimos ka kag magkadto sa Betel kag didto mag-estar. Maghimo ka dayon didto sang halaran para sa akon, ang Dios nga nagpakita sa imo sang nagapalagyo ka pa sadto sa imo utod nga si Esau.”
Nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, “Jacob ang imo ngalan, pero sugod subong indi ka na pagtawgon nga Jacob kundi Israel na.” Gani nangin Israel ang ngalan ni Jacob.
Nagsiling pa gid ang Dios sa iya, “Ako ang Makagagahom nga Dios. Magpamata ka sing madamo. Mangin amay ka sang isa ka nasyon kag sang madamo pa nga mga nasyon, kag mangin hari ang iban mo nga mga kaliwat.
Ang duta nga ginhatag ko kay Abraham kag kay Isaac ihatag ko man sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat.”
Gin-ngalanan niya ato nga lugar nga Betel.
Karon, naghalin si Jacob kag ang iya panimalay sa Betel. Manugbata na sadto si Raquel. Sang malayo-layo pa sila sa banwa sang Efrata, ginsakitan si Raquel.
Sang puwerte na gid ang iya pagpasakit, nagsiling ang paltera sa iya, “Indi ka magkahadlok Raquel, lalaki naman ang imo bata.”
Natawo ang bata pero tagumatayon na si Raquel. Sang wala pa siya nabugtuan sang ginhawa, gin-ngalanan niya ang bata nga Ben Oni.
Napatay si Raquel kag ginlubong siya sa higad sang dalan nga pakadto sa Efrata (nga ginatawag subong nga Betlehem).
Gani nagsiling si Jacob sa iya panimalay kag sa tanan niya nga kaupdanan, “Ipamilak ninyo ang inyo mga dios-dios. Magpakatinlo kamo kag mag-ilis sang bayo.
Ginbutangan ni Jacob sang bato nga palatandaan ang lulubngan ni Raquel, kag hasta subong ara pa ini nga tanda sa lulubngan ni Raquel.
Nagpadayon sila ni Jacob
May dose ka anak nga lalaki si Jacob.
Ang iya mga anak kay Lea amo sila ni Reuben, ang kamagulangan, dayon si Simeon, si Levi, si Juda, si Isacar, kag si Zebulun.
Ang iya mga anak kay Raquel amo si Jose kag si Benjamin.
Ang iya mga anak kay Bilha nga ulipon ni Raquel amo si Dan kag si Naftali.
Ang iya mga anak kay Zilpa nga ulipon ni Lea amo si Gad kag si Asher. Sila tanan ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jacob nga natawo sa Padan Aram.
Nagkadto si Jacob sa iya amay nga si Isaac sa Mamre, malapit sa Kiriat Arba (nga ginatawag man nga Hebron). Ang ini nga lugar nga ginaestaran ni Isaac amo man anay ang gin-estaran ni Abraham.
Nagkabuhi si Isaac sing 180 ka tuig.
Napatay siya nga tigulang na gid, kag ginsimpon siya sa iya mga paryente nga nagkalamatay na nga nagkalamatay na . Ginlubong siya sang iya mga anak nga si Esau kag si Jacob.
Dayon magkadto kita sa Betel; kag mahimo ako didto sang halaran para sa Dios nga nagbulig sa akon sang ara ako sa kalisod, kag nag-upod sa akon bisan diin ako nagkadto.”
Gani ginhatag nila kay Jacob ang ila mga dios-dios pati ang ila mga aritos. Ginlubong ini tanan ni Jacob sa idalom sang kahoy nga terebinto nga malapit sa Shekem.
Sang nagahalin na sanday Jacob, ginpahadlok sang Dios ang mga tawo sa palibot nga mga banwa, gani wala nila paglagsa sanday Jacob.
Nakaabot si Jacob kag ang iya mga kaupdanan sa Luz (nga ginatawag man nga Betel) didto sa Canaan.
Naghimo siya didto sang halaran. Gin-ngalanan niya ato nga lugar nga El Betel
Karon, napatay si Debora nga manug-atipan ni Rebeka. Gani ginlubong siya sa idalom sang dako nga kahoy didto sa ubos sang Betel. Gintawag ato nga kahoy nga kahoy nga Allon Bacut.
Sang nagapapuli sadto si Jacob halin sa Padan Aram, nagpakita liwat ang Dios sa iya kag ginbendisyunan siya.
Amo ini ang estorya parte sa pamilya ni Esau (nga ginatawag man nga Edom).
Ang anak ni Esau kay Basemat amo si Reuel, kag ang anak niya kay Ada amo si Elifaz.
Ang mga anak ni Elifaz amo sila ni Teman, Omar, Zefo, Gatam kag Kenaz.
May anak man si Elifaz nga si Amalek sa isa pa niya ka asawa nga si Timna. Sila ang mga apo ni Esau kay Ada.
Ang mga anak ni Reuel amo sila ni Nahat, Zera, Shama, kag Miza. Sila ang mga apo ni Esau kay Basemat.
Ang mga anak ni Esau kay Oholibama amo sila ni Jeush, Jalam, kag Kora. (Si Oholibama anak ni Ana kag apo ni Zibeon.)
Amo ini sila ang nangin pangulo sa mga kaliwat ni Esau: Si Teman, Omar, Zefo, Kenaz,
Nangin pangulo man sa Edom ang mga anak ni Reuel nga sila ni Nahat, Zera, Shama, kag Miza. Sila ang mga apo ni Esau kay Basemat.
Nangin pangulo man ang mga anak ni Esau kay Oholibama nga anak ni Ana. Sila amo si Jeush, Jalam, kag Kora.
Sila tanan ang mga kaliwat ni Esau nga mga pangulo sang Edom.
Nagpangasawa si Esau sang mga babayi nga taga-Canaan. Sila amo si Ada nga anak ni Elon nga Hithanon kag si Oholibama nga anak ni Ana kag apo ni Zibeon nga Hivhanon.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Seir nga Horhanon nga nagaestar sa Edom: Si Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Ana,
Dishon, Ezer, kag Dishan. Nangin pangulo man sila sang mga Horhanon nga nagaestar sa Edom.
Ang mga anak ni Lotan amo si Hori kag si Hemam.
Ang mga anak ni Shobal amo sila ni Alvan, Manahat, Ebal, Shefo, kag Onam.
Ang mga anak ni Zibeon amo si Aya kag si Ana. Si Ana amo ang nakasapo sang tuburan didto sa kamingawan sang nagabantay siya sang mga donkey sang iya amay.
Ang mga anak ni Ana amo si Dishon kag si Oholibama.
Ang mga anak ni Dishon amo sila ni Hemdan, Eshban, Itran, kag Keran.
Ang mga anak ni Ezer amo sila ni Bilhan, Zaavan, kag Akan.
Ang mga anak ni Dishan amo si Uz kag si Aran.
Ginpangasawa man niya si Basemat nga utod ni Nebayot nga anak ni Ishmael.
Amo ini sila ang mga hari sang Edom sang panahon nga wala pa sang mga hari ang mga Israelinhon:
Si Bela nga taga-Dinhaba nga anak ni Beor nangin hari sa Edom.
Pagkapatay niya, ginbuslan siya ni Jobab nga anak ni Zera nga taga-Bozra.
Pagkapatay ni Jobab, ginbuslan siya ni Husham nga taga-Teman.
Pagkapatay ni Husham, ginbuslan siya ni Hadad nga taga-Avit nga anak ni Bedad. Si Hadad ang nakapierdi sa mga Midianhon didto sa Moab.
Pagkapatay ni Hadad, ginbuslan siya ni Samla nga taga-Masreka.
Pagkapatay ni Samla, ginbuslan siya ni Shaul nga taga-Rehobot nga malapit sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates .
Pagkapatay ni Shaul, ginbuslan siya ni Baal Hanan nga anak ni Acbor.
Pagkapatay ni Baal Hanan, ginbuslan siya ni Hadar nga taga-Pau. Ang iya asawa si Mehetabel nga anak ni Matred kag apo ni Mezahab.
Ang anak ni Esau kay Ada amo si Elifaz. Ang iya anak kay Basemat amo si Reuel.
Kag ang iya mga anak kay Oholibama amo sila ni Jeush, Jalam, kag Kora. Sila ang mga anak ni Esau nga natawo sa Canaan.
Gindala ni Esau ang iya mga asawa, mga anak, kag ang tanan nga sakop sang iya pamilya, pati ang iya mga pagkabutang kag kasapatan nga natipon niya sa Canaan, kag nagsaylo siya sa isa ka lugar palayo kay Jacob nga iya utod.
Kay indi na sila puwede mag-upod sa isa ka lugar tungod sa kadamuon sang ila pagkabutang; kag ang lugar nga ila ginaestaran indi na makasustiner sa ila tungod sa kadamuon sang ila kasapatan.
Gani didto nag-estar si Esau (nga ginatawag man nga Edom) sa kabukiran sang Seir.
Amo ini ang estorya parte sa pamilya ni Esau nga amay sang mga Edomnon nga nagaestar sa kabukiran sang Seir.
Nagpabilin si Jacob sa pag-estar sa Canaan, ang lugar nga gin-estaran man anay sang iya amay.
Ginsugid man ni Jose ang iya damgo sa iya amay pero nangakig man ang iya amay sa iya. Siling niya, “Ano ang buot mo silingon? Nga kami sang imo iloy kag sang imo mga utod magasaludo sa imo?”
Nahisa ang mga utod ni Jose sa iya, pero si Jacob iya gintago lang niya ini nga butang sa iya tagipusuon.
Isa sadto ka adlaw, nagkadto ang mga utod ni Jose sa Shekem para magbantay sang mga sapat sang ila amay.
Sang didto na siya nga nagalibot-libot sa latagon, may tawo nga nagpamangkot sa iya kon ano ang iya ginapangita.
Nagsabat siya, “Ginapangita ko ang akon mga utod. Nakahibalo ka bala kon diin sila nagapahalab?”
Nagsiling ang tawo, “Wala na sila diri. Nabatian ko nga makadto kuno sila sa Dotan.” Gani nag-apas si Jose kag nakita niya sila didto sa Dotan.
Malayo pa si Jose nakita na siya sang iya mga utod. Kag sa wala pa siya makaabot, ginplanohan na nila nga patyon siya.
Siling nila, “Ara na ang paladamgo.
Sang nagaedad na si Jose sing 17 ka tuig, nagabantay siya sang mga kasapatan kaupod sang iya mga utod nga mga anak ni Bilha kag ni Zilpa, nga mga asawa sang iya amay. Ginsugid ni Jose sa iya amay ang mga malain nga ginpanghimo sang iya mga utod.
Dali, patyon ta siya kag ihulog dayon sa isa sining mga buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig. Silingon ta lang nga ginpatay siya sang mabangis nga sapat. Kag tan-awon ta abi kon matuman ang iya mga damgo.”
Pero pagkabati ni Reuben sang ila plano, gintinguhaan niya nga luwason si Jose. Siling niya, “Indi ta lang siya pagpatyon.
Ihulog lang ninyo siya sa buho diri sa kamingawan, pero indi gid ninyo siya pagpatyon.” Ginsiling ato ni Reuben tungod kay plano na niya nga luwason si Jose kag ibalik sa ila amay.
Gani pag-abot ni Jose, gin-ubahan nila siya sadtong iya bayo nga matahom kag malaba,
kag ginhulog sa buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig. Pero wala sadto sang tubig ang buho.
Samtang nagakaon sila, may nalantawan sila nga mga negosyante nga Ishmaelinhon nga naghalin sa Gilead. Ang ila mga camel may karga nga mga panakot, bulong, kag pahamot nga dal-on sa Egypt.
Nagsiling si Juda sa iya mga utod, “Ano bala ang aton makuha kon patyon ta ang aton utod kag tago-taguon ang iya kamatayon?
Ang maayo pa siguro ibaligya ta siya sa sinang mga Ishmaelinhon. Indi ta siya pagpatyon kay utod naton siya.” Nagsugot ang mga utod ni Juda sa iya.
Gani pag-agi sang mga negosyante nga Ishmaelinhon, nga ang ila tribo Ishmaelinhon, nga ang ila tribo Midianhon, ginbatak nila si Jose halin sa buho kag ginbaligya nila siya sa kantidad nga 20 ka bilog nga pilak. Kag gindala si Jose sang mga Ishmaelinhon sa Egypt.
Sang pagbalik ni Reuben sa buho, wala na didto si Jose, gani gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo .
Mas palangga ni Jacob
Dayon nagbalik siya sa iya mga utod kag nagsiling, “Wala na didto ang aton manghod. Paano na ako makapuli karon didto kay tatay didto kay tatay ?”
Nagpatay sila sang kanding kag gintusmog nila sa dugo ang bayo ni Jose.
Dayon gindala nila ang bayo ni Jose sa ila amay kag nagsiling, “Nakita namon ini. Tan-awa abi kon kay Jose ini ukon indi.”
Nakilala dayon ni Jacob ang bayo. Siling niya, “Iya ina! Ginpatay siya sang mabangis nga sapat! Sigurado gid nga ginus-ab siya sang sapat.”
Gin-gisi dayon ni Jacob ang iya bayo kag nagsuksok sang sako sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo . Pila gid ka adlaw ang iya pagpangasubo para iya anak.
Gin-uloulohan siya sang tanan niya nga mga anak pero sige gid gihapon ang iya pangasubo. Siling niya, “Pabay-i lang bala ninyo ako! Mapatay ako nga nagapangasubo tungod sa pagkapatay sang akon anak.” Kag padayon ang iya paghibi tungod kay Jose.
Karon didto sa Egypt, ginbaligya sang mga Midianhon
Pero pagkakita sang mga utod ni Jose nga mas palangga siya sang ila amay sang sa ila, nangakig sila kay Jose kag ginhambalan nila siya sang masakit nga mga estorya.
Karon nagdamgo si Jose. Sang pagsugid niya sang iya damgo sa iya mga utod, nangakig pa gid sila tapat sa iya.
Kay amo ini ang ginsugid niya, “Nagdamgo ako
nga samtang didto kita sa uma nga nagapamugkos sang mga uhay, hinali lang nga nagtindog ang akon binugkos kag ginpalibutan sang inyo mga binugkos nga nagasaludo.”
Nagsiling ang iya mga utod, “Ano? Mangin hari ka kag magapangulo sa amon?” Gani nangakig pa gid sila kay Jose.
Nagdamgo liwat si Jose kag ginsugid naman niya sa iya mga utod. Siling niya, “Nagdamgo naman ako nga nakita ko ang adlaw, ang bulan, kag ang onse ka bituon nga nagasaludo sa akon.”
Sa amo man nga tion, nagbulag si Juda sa iya mga utod kag didto siya nag-estar upod kay Hira nga taga-Adulam.
Malain ang ginhimo ni Onan sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ginpatay man niya siya.
Nagsiling dayon si Juda kay Tamar nga iya umagad, “Pauli ka anay sa imo amay, kag indi ka magpamana hasta nga magsoltero na si Shela.” Ginsiling ato ni Juda kay nahadlok siya nga basi mapatay man si Shela pareho sa iya mga utod. Gani nagpuli anay si Tamar sa iya amay.
Sang ulihi napatay ang asawa ni Juda. Pagkatapos sang iya pagpangasubo, nagkadto siya sa mga manuggunting sang iya mga karnero didto sa Timnah. Kaupod niya nga nagkadto didto ang iya amigo nga si Hira nga taga-Adulam.
May nagsugid kay Tamar nga ang iya ugangan makadto sa Timnah para guntingan didto ang iya mga karnero.
Pagkabati sadto ni Tamar, gin-ilisan niya ang iya bayo nga pangbalo, kag gintabunan niya sang belo ang iya guya. Nagpungko dayon siya sa may puwertahan sang banwa sang banwa sang Enaim, sa higad sang dalan nga pakadto sa Timnah. Plano niya nga dayaan si Juda Plano niya nga dayaan si Juda tungod kay natalupangdan niya nga wala gihapon siya ginpaasawa kay Shela bisan soltero na si Shela.
Nagsiling si Juda, “Hatagan ko ikaw sang bataon nga kanding halin sa akon kasapatan.” Nagsabat si Tamar, “Masugot ako kon may ihatag ka sa akon nga kasiguruhan hasta mapadala mo na ang kanding.”
Didto nakilala ni Juda ang anak ni Shua nga taga-Canaan kag ginpangasawa niya ini.
Wala madugay, ginpadul-ong ni Juda ang bataon nga kanding sa iya amigo nga si Hira nga si Hira nga taga-Adulam para kuhaon ang mga butang nga iya ginhatag sa babayi bilang kasiguruhan, pero wala niya siya makita.
Nagpamangkot si Hira sa mga taga-Enaim kon diin na ang babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, nga didto nagapungko sa higad sang dalan. Pero nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Wala man diri sing babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.”
Gani nagbalik si Hira kay Juda kag nagsiling, “Wala ko siya makita. Kag siling sang mga tawo wala man kuno didto sing babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.”
Nagsiling si Juda, “Pabay-i na lang atong akon mga butang sa iya, kay basi kadlawan pa kita sang mga tawo. Kon sa bagay, ginpadul-ungan ko man siya sining bataon nga kanding pero wala mo siya makita didto.”
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka bulan, ginsugiran si Juda nga ang iya umagad nga si Tamar nagbaligya sang iya lawas kag nagabusong na gani. Gani nagsiling si Juda, “Dal-a ninyo siya sa guwa sang banwa sang banwa kag sunugon.”
Pero sang ginadala na si Tamar, may ginsugo siya kay Juda sa pagsiling, “Ari ang pangmarka kag ang iya higot, pati ang baston. Ang tag-iya sini amo ang amay sang akon ginabusong. Pangilalaha abi kon kay sin-o ini.”
Kilala ni Juda nga iya ato nga mga butang, gani nagsiling siya, “Wala siya sing sala. Ako ang nakasala kay wala ko siya ginpaasawa sa akon anak nga si Shela.” Wala na liwat naghulid si Juda kay Tamar.
Sang manugbata na si Tamar, nasapwan nga ang iya ginabusong kapid.
Sang ginasakitan na siya, nagguwa ang kamot sang isa ka bata. Ginhigtan ini sang paltera
Pero ginpasulod sang bata ang iya kamot kag ang iya kapid amo ang una nga nagguwa. Nagsiling ang paltera, “Naghingagaw ka gid guwa.” Gani gin-ngalanan ang bata nga Perez.
Sang ulihi nagbusong siya kag nagbata sing lalaki kag gin-ngalanan ini ni Juda nga Er.
Dayon nagguwa man ang iya kapid nga may higot nga pula sa iya kamot. Gin-ngalanan siya nga Zera.
Nagbusong siya liwat kag nagbata sing lalaki kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Onan.
Nagbusong pa gid siya kag nagbata sing lalaki kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Shela. Natawo si Shela sa Kezib.
Ginpaasawa ni Juda ang iya kamagulangan nga anak nga si Er sa babayi nga ang ngalan si Tamar.
Pero si Er malain sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ginpatay niya siya.
Gani nagsiling si Juda kay Onan, “Pangasaw-a ang imo bayaw kay katungdanan mo ina bilang utod sang iya bana nga napatay, agod paagi sa imo may kaliwat man ang imo utod.”
Nakahibalo si Onan nga ang mangin anak nila ni Tamar indi pagkabigon nga iya kaugalingon nga kaliwat. Gani kada maghulid sila ni Tamar, wala niya ginapasulod ang iya semilya para indi siya makabata para sa iya utod.
Karon, sang nadala na si Jose sang mga Ishmaelinhon sa Egypt, ginbaligya siya kay Potifar nga isa sa mga opisyal sang hari sang Egypt.
Bisan adlaw-adlaw ang paghagad sang babayi kay Jose nga maghulid sa iya, wala gid siya magsugot.
Isa sadto ka adlaw, nagsulod si Jose sa balay para mag-obra. Natabuan nga wala gid sing bisan isa nga suluguon didto sa sulod sang balay.
Karon, ginhawiran siya sa bayo sang asawa sang iya agalon kag ginsilingan, “Hulid ka sa akon.” Pero nagdalagan si Jose paguwa sa balay, kag nabilin ang iya bayo sa babayi.
Sang makita sang babayi nga nagguwa si Jose kag nahawiran niya ang iya bayo,
gintawag niya ang iya mga suluguon kag nagsiling, “Tan-awa bala ninyo ini! Gindal-an kita diri sang akon bana sing Hebreo para pakahuy-an kita. Abi ninyo, nagsulod siya sa akon kuwarto para luguson ako, pero nagsinggit ako.
Gani nagdalagan siya paguwa, kag nabilin niya ang iya bayo.”
Gintago sang babayi ang bayo ni Jose hasta nga nag-abot ang iya bana.
Nanugid siya dayon sa iya bana. Siling niya, “Ang Hebreo nga ulipon nga gindala mo diri luyag niya ako pakahuy-an.
Pero sang nagsinggit ako nagdalagan siya paguwa, kag nabilin pa gani ang iya bayo.”
Pagkabati ni Potifar sa ginsugid sang iya asawa parte sa ginhimo ni Jose, nangakig gid siya.
Gin-ubayan gid sang Ginoo Ginoo si Jose gani nagmainuswagon siya. Didto siya nag-estar sa balay sang iya agalon nga Egyptohanon nga si Potifar nga si Potifar .
Gani ginpadakop niya si Jose kag ginsulod sa prisohan sang mga priso sang hari. Pero bisan didto si Jose sa prisohan,
gin-ubayan gihapon siya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag tungod sa kaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nahulog ang buot sang manugdumala sang prisohan kay Jose.
Gani gintugyan niya kay Jose ang pagdumala sa tanan nga priso kag sa tanan nga buluhaton sa prisohan.
Wala na nagapalibog ang manugdumala sang prisohan sa mga butang nga gintugyan niya kay Jose, kay ginaubayan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Jose kag ginapakamaayo sa tanan niya nga ginahimo.
Nakita ni Potifar nga ginaubayan gid sang Ginoo Ginoo si Jose kag ginapakamaayo sa tanan niya nga ginahimo,
gani nahulog ang iya buot kay Jose. Ginhimo niya siya nga iya kaugalingon nga kabulig kag manugdumala sang iya panimalay kag sang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
Halin sang tion nga si Jose ang nagadumala, ginpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang panimalay ni Potifar nga Potifar nga Egyptohanon kag ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang sa iya balay kag kaumahan. Ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay Jose.
Guwapo si Jose kag mabukod ang lawas.
Sang ulihi naluyag sa iya ang asawa sang iya agalon. Ginhagad niya si Jose nga maghulid sa iya.
Pero nagbalibad si Jose. Siling niya sa babayi, “Pamati bala! Gintugyan sa akon sang akon agalon ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang, gani wala na siya nagapalibog sa mga butang diri sa iya panimalay.
Wala na sing may maglabaw pa sa akon sa sining panimalay. Gintugyan niya sa akon ang tanan magluwas lang sa imo tungod kay asawa niya ikaw. Gani indi ko mahimo nga traiduran ang akon agalon kag magpakasala sa Dios.”
kag may tatlo ini ka sanga. Nagpanalingsing ini, nagpamulak, kag naluto ang iya pinungpong nga mga bunga.
Nagauyat ako sang kupa sang hari sang Egypt kag nagpuksi sang ubas kag ginpuga ko dayon sa kupa. Pagkatapos ginhatag ko ang kupa sa hari.”
Nagsiling si Jose, “Amo ini ang kahulugan sang imo nga damgo: Ang tatlo ka sanga nagakahulugan sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Sa wala pa matapos ang tatlo ka adlaw, paguwaon ka sang hari sa prisohan kag pabalikon sa imo obra bilang manugserbi sang iya ilimnon.
Kabay pa nga dumdumon mo ako kon ara ka na sa maayo nga kahimtangan. Kag bilang pagpakita sang imo kaayo sa akon, sambita man ako sa hari para mabuligan mo ako nga makaguwa sa prisohan.
Kay sa pagkamatuod, ginpuwersa lang ako nga dal-on diri halin sa lugar sang mga Hebreo, kag bisan diri wala man ako sing may nahimo nga sala para prisohon.”
Pagkabati sang pangulo sang mga manugluto sang tinapay nga maayo ang kahulugan sang damgo sang iya kaupod, sang damgo sang iya kaupod, ginsugid man niya ang iya damgo kay Jose. Siling niya, “Nagdamgo man ako nga may ginalukdo ako nga tatlo ka alat nga may mga tinapay.
Ang sa ibabaw gid nga alat may sulod nga nagkalain-lain nga klase sang tinapay para sa hari sang Egypt, pero ginatuka ini sang mga pispis.”
Nagsiling si Jose, “Amo ini ang kahulugan sang imo nga damgo: Ang tatlo ka alat nagakahulugan sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Sa wala pa matapos ang tatlo ka adlaw, paguwaon ka sang hari sa prisohan, pero papugutan ka sang ulo kag ipatuhog ang imo bangkay sa nagatindog nga nagatindog nga kahoy, kag pagatuk-on ka sang mga pispis.”
Karon, ang ikatlo nga adlaw kaadlawan sang hari sang Egypt. Gani nagpapunsyon siya para sa tanan niya nga mga opisyal. Ginpaguwa niya sa prisohan ang pangulo sang iya mga manugserbi sang ilimnon kag ang pangulo sang iya mga manugluto sang tinapay kag ginpaatubang sa iya mga opisyal.
Ginpabalik niya ang pangulo sang mga manugserbi sang ilimnon sa iya obra,
pero ang pangulo sang mga manugluto sang tinapay, ginpatuhog niya ang bangkay sini ang bangkay sini . Natabo tanan ang ginsiling ni Jose sa ila.
Pero wala gid makadumdom ang pangulo sang mga manugserbi sang ilimnon kay Jose.
Gani ginpapriso niya sila sa prisohan nga sa diin napriso man si Jose, sa ginaestaran sang kapitan sang mga guwardya sa palasyo.
Si Jose ang ginsaligan sang kapitan sang mga guwardya nga mag-atipan sa ila. Nagdugay sila didto sa prisohan.
Isa sadto ka gab-i, nagdamgo ang manugserbi sang ilimnon kag ang manugluto sang tinapay sang hari sang Egypt samtang didto sila sa prisohan. Ang kada isa sa ila lain ang damgo kag lain man ang kahulugan sang ila damgo.
Pagkaaga, pagkadto ni Jose sa ila, nakita niya nga maluya sila.
Gani ginpamangkot niya sila, “Ngaa nga masinulub-on kamo?”
Nagsabat sila, “Nagdamgo abi kami pero wala sing may magpaathag sang kahulugan.” Nagsiling si Jose, “Ang Dios ang nagahatag sang kaalam sa pagpaathag sang kahulugan sang mga damgo. Abi sugiri ninyo ako kon ano ang inyo mga damgo.”
Gani ginsugid sang pangulo sang mga manugserbi sang ilimnon ang iya damgo. Siling niya, “Nagdamgo ako nga may isa ka puno sang ubas sa akon atubangan
Pagkaligad sang duha ka tuig, nagdamgo ang hari sang Egypt
Indi bala nga nangakig ka sadto sa akon kag sa pangulo sang mga manugluto sang tinapay, kag ginpapriso mo gani kami sa ginaestaran sang kapitan sang mga guwardya sa palasyo?
Abi mo sang isa sadto ka gab-i, nagdamgo kami nga duha, kag lain-lain ang kahulugan sang amon damgo.
May upod kami didto nga bataon pa nga Hebreo, nga ulipon sang kapitan sang mga guwardya sa palasyo. Ginsugid namon sa iya ang amon damgo kag ginpaathag niya sa amon ang kahulugan.
Natabo matuod ang iya ginsiling sa amon: Ginpabalik mo ako sa akon obra kag ginpatuhog mo sa kahoy sa kahoy ang pangulo sang mga manugluto sang tinapay.”
Gani ginpatawag sang hari si Jose, kag ginpaguwa siya gilayon sa prisohan. Pagkatapos niya pagunting kag pamarbas, nag-ilis siya kag nagkadto sa hari.
Nagsiling ang hari sa iya, “Nagdamgo ako pero wala gid sing may makapaathag sang iya kahulugan. May nagsugid sa akon nga kahibalo ka magpaathag sang kahulugan sang mga damgo.”
Nagsabat si Jose, “Indi ako, Mahal nga Hari, kundi ang Dios amo ang magahatag sang kahulugan sang imo mga damgo para sa imo ikaayo.”
Ginsugid dayon sang hari ang iya mga damgo kay Jose. Siling niya, “Nagdamgo ako nga nagatindog ako sa may pangpang sang Suba sang Nilo.
Gulpi lang nga may nagtakas nga pito ka baka nga matahom kag matambok, kag naghalab dayon sila sang hilamon.
Dugay-dugay may nagtakas man nga pito ka baka nga malaw-ay kag maniwang. Wala gid ako sing may nakita nga baka sa bilog nga Egypt nga pareho sadto kalaw-ay.
Dayon ginkaon sang malaw-ay kag maniwang nga mga baka ang pito ka matambok nga mga baka nga una nga nagtakas.
Pero pagkakaon nila, daw indi man lang mahibaluan nga nakakaon sila kay amo man gihapon sila kaniwang. Nakamata dayon ako.
Pero natulugan ako liwat Pero natulugan ako liwat kag nagdamgo naman nga nakakita ako sang pito ka uhay nga matinggas nga nag-ulhot sa isa lang ka puno.
Kag sa sadto man nga puno, nag-ulhot man ang pito ka huyos nga mga uhay nga ginpakigas sang hangin nga halin sa east.
Ginkaon dayon sang huyos nga mga uhay ang pito ka matinggas nga mga uhay. Ginsugid ko na ini sa mga madyikero, pero wala gid sing bisan isa sa ila nga makapaathag sang iya kahulugan.”
Nagsiling si Jose sa hari, “Mahal nga Hari, ang imo duha ka damgo isa lang ang kahulugan. Ginpahayag sa imo sang Dios kon ano ang iya pagahimuon.
Ang pito ka matambok nga mga baka kag ang pito ka matinggas nga mga uhay pareho nga pito ka tuig ang kahulugan.
Ang pito ka maniwang kag malaw-ay nga mga baka kag ang pito ka huyos nga mga uhay nga ginpakigas sang hangin nga halin sa east nagakahulugan sang pito ka tuig nga gutom.
Suno sa ginsiling ko na sa imo, Mahal nga Hari, ginpahayag sa imo sang Dios kon ano ang iya pagahimuon.
Sa sulod sang pito ka tuig nga magaabot, puwerte gid kabugana ang bilog nga Egypt.
Dugay-dugay may nagtakas man nga pito ka baka nga malaw-ay kag maniwang,
Pero sundan dayon ini sang pito ka tuig nga gutom, kag malimtan na sang mga tawo ang naagyan nila nga kabuganaan tungod kay ang gutom magahalit sa duta sang Egypt.
Puwerte gid nga gutom ang magaabot nga daw wala lang mahibaluan nga nakaagi sang kabuganaan ang duta sang Egypt sang Egypt .
Duha gid ka beses nga nagdamgo ka, Mahal nga Hari, para mahibaluan mo nga ginbuot na ini sang Dios nga matabo kag madali na lang matuman.
“Gani karon, Mahal nga Hari, dapat magpili ka sang isa ka tawo nga maalam para magdumala sa duta sang Egypt.
Magbutang ka man sang mga opisyal sa bilog nga duta sang Egypt sa pagpreparar
Sa sina nga mga tinuig, ipatipon mo sa ila ang tanan nga patubas.
Ina nga mga pagkaon itigana sa mga tawo kon mag-abot na ang pito ka tuig nga gutom sa Egypt, para indi sila magutuman.”
Nagustuhan sang hari kag sang iya mga opisyal ang plano ni Jose.
Nagsiling siya sa iya mga opisyal, “Wala na kita sing may makita pa nga tawo pareho kay Jose nga ginagiyahan sang espiritu sang Dios.”
Gani nagsiling ang hari kay Jose, “Tungod kay ginsugid sa imo sang Dios ato nga mga butang, wala na siguro sing iban pa nga tawo nga may kaalam kag pag-intiendi nga pareho sa imo.
kag ginpalapitan nila dayon ang pito ka matahom kag matambok nga mga baka kag ginkaon. Nakamata dayon ang hari.
Ginhukas dayon sang hari ang iya singsing nga pangmarka kag ginsuksok sa tudlo ni Jose. Ginpasuksukan niya si Jose sang bayo nga linen kag ginpakulintasan sang bulawan nga kulintas.
Ginpagamit man niya kay Jose ang iya ikaduha nga karwahe,
Nagsiling pa gid ang hari kay Jose, “Ako ang hari diri sa Egypt, pero kon indi mo pag-itugot wala sing bisan sin-o nga makahimo sang bisan ano diri sa Egypt.”
Gin-ngalanan niya dayon si Jose nga Zafenat Panea. Ginpaasawa man niya kay Jose si Asenat nga anak ni Potifera nga pari sa banwa sa banwa sang On. Si Jose na ang nagdumala sa Egypt.
Nagaedad sadto si Jose sing 30 ka tuig sang nag-umpisa siya sa pag-alagad sa hari sang Egypt. Isa sadto ka tion, Isa sadto ka tion, ginbayaan anay ni Jose ang palasyo kag naglibot sa bilog nga Egypt.
Sa sulod sang pito ka tuig nga kabuganaan, bugana gid ang mga patubas.
Kag sa sina nga mga tinuig, ginpatipon ni Jose ang tanan nga patubas sa duta sang Egypt.
Puwerte gid kadamo sang uyas nga natipon ni Jose; daw pareho ini kadamo sa balas sa baybayon. Gin-untatan na lang niya ang pagtakos sini tungod indi na ini matakos.
Natulugan liwat ang hari kag nagdamgo naman siya. Sa iya damgo nakakita siya sang pito ka uhay nga matinggas nga nag-ulhot sa isa lang ka puno.
Sa wala pa mag-abot ang gutom, natawo ang duha ka anak ni Jose kay Asenat nga anak ni Potifera nga pari sang On.
Gin-ngalanan ni Jose ang kamagulangan nga Manase
Gin-ngalanan niya ang ikaduha niya nga anak nga Efraim,
Natapos na ang pito ka tuig nga kabuganaan sa Egypt,
kag nag-umpisa na ang pito ka tuig nga gutom pareho sang ginsiling ni Jose. May gutom man sa iban nga mga lugar pero may pagkaon ya sa bilog nga Egypt.
Sang ulihi nabatyagan man sang mga taga-Egypt ang gutom, gani nagpangayo sila sang pagkaon sa hari. Nagsiling ang hari sa ila, “Magkadto kamo kay Jose kay siya ang magasiling sa inyo kon ano ang inyo himuon.”
Naglambot ang gutom sa bisan diin nga lugar. Kag tungod nga puwerte gid ang gutom sa bilog nga bilog nga duta sang Egypt, ginpabuksan ni Jose ang tanan nga bodega kag ginbaligyaan sang pagkaon ang mga taga-Egypt.
Nagkadto man ang halos tanan nga nasyon sa Egypt sa pagbakal sang pagkaon kay Jose tungod kay puwerte na gid ang gutom sa bisan diin nga lugar.
Kag sa sadto man nga puno, nag-ulhot man ang pito ka uhay nga huyos nga ginpakigas sang hangin nga halin sa east.
Ginlamon dayon sang huyos nga mga uhay ang pito ka matinggas nga mga uhay. Nakamata dayon ang hari. Abi niya matuod ato pero damgo man lang gali.
Pagkaaga, naglibog ang hunahuna sang hari gani ginpatawag niya ang tanan nga madyikero kag maalamon nga mga tawo sang Egypt. Ginsugid niya sa ila ang iya mga damgo, pero wala gid sa ila sing may makapaathag sang kahulugan sadto.
Nagpalapit dayon sa hari ang pangulo sang iya mga manugserbi sang ilimnon kag nagsiling, “Nadumduman ko subong ang akon mga sala.
Pagkahibalo ni Jacob nga may ginabaligya nga pagkaon
Nagsabat sila, “Indi, sir! Indi kami mga espiya. Nagkadto kami diri para magbakal sang pagkaon.
Mag-ulutod kami tanan sa isa lang ka amay, kag nagasugid kami sing matuod. Indi kami mga espiya.”
Pero nagsiling si Jose, “Indi ako magpati! Nagkadto kamo diri para tan-awon kon sa diin nga parte sang amon nasyon ang maluya sang depensa.”
Nagsabat sila, “Sir, dose kami tanan ka mag-ulutod, kag isa lang ang amon amay nga ara subong sa Canaan. Ang amon kamanghuran didto nabilin sa iya. Ang isa namon ka utod wala na.”
Nagsiling si Jose, “Pareho sa akon ginsiling, mga espiya gid kamo.
Pero testingan ko kamo kon matuod gid inang inyo ginasiling. Ginasumpa ko sa ngalan sang hari sang Egypt
Magpuli ang isa sa inyo para kuhaon ang inyo utod. Ang mabilin sa inyo prisohon hasta mapamatud-an ninyo ang inyo ginasiling, kay kon indi gani, matuod gid nga mga espiya kamo.”
Ginpapriso niya sila sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Sa ikatlo nga adlaw, nagsiling si Jose sa ila, “Nagatahod ako sa Dios, gani hatagan ko pa kamo sang kahigayunan nga mabuhi kon tumanon lang ninyo ang akon isugo sa inyo.
Kon nagasugid kamo sing matuod, magpabilin diri ang isa sa inyo kag magpuli kamo kag magdala sang pagkaon para sa ginagutom ninyo nga mga pamilya.
Nakabati ako nga may ginabaligya kuno nga pagkaon sa Egypt, gani magkadto kamo didto kag magbakal para indi kita mapatay sa gutom.”
Pagkatapos dal-on ninyo diri sa akon ang inyo kamanghuran para mapamatud-an ko nga wala kamo nagabutig kag para indi ko kamo pag-ipapatay.” Kag ginhimo nila ini.
Nagsiling sila sa isa kag isa, “Ginasilutan na kita sa ginhimo ta sa aton utod. Nakita ta ang iya kasakit sang nagpakitluoy siya sa aton, pero wala gid naton siya ginkaluoyan. Amo ina ang kabangdanan kon ngaa nag-abot ini nga kalisod sa aton.”
Nagsiling si Reuben, “Indi bala nga ginsilingan ko kamo sadto nga indi ninyo pag-anha ang bata? Pero wala gid kamo nagpamati sa akon. Gani ginasukot na kita subong sang iya kamatayon.”
Wala sila nakahibalo nga maintiendihan ni Jose ang ila ginahambal tungod kay kon magpakighambal siya sa ila may interpreter siya.
Naghalin anay si Jose sa ila kag naghibi. Pero sang ulihi nagbalik siya kag nagpakig-estorya sa ila. Ginpain niya si Simeon sa ila kag ginpagapos sa ila atubangan.
Dayon nagsugo si Jose nga pun-on sang pagkaon ang mga sako sang iya mga utod kag ibalik sa ila mga sako ang ila bayad, kag pabalunan sila sang ila mga kinahanglanon sa ila pagpanglakaton. Natuman ang tanan nga ginsugo ni Jose.
Ginkarga dayon sang mga utod ni Jose ang ila mga sako sa ila mga donkey kag naglakat.
Sang nagpalipas sila sang kagab-ihon sa isa ka lugar, may isa sa ila nga nagbukas sang iya sako para pakan-on ang iya donkey. Pagbukas niya, nakita niya didto ang kuwarta nga iya ginbayad.
Nagsinggit siya sa iya mga utod, “Gin-uli ang akon ginbayad! Ari diri sa akon sako.” Nagpalangluya sila tanan kag kinulbaan.
Pag-abot nila sa Canaan, ginsugid nila sa ila amay nga si Jacob ang tanan nga natabo sa ila.
Gani naglakat ang napulo ka utod ni Jose sa Egypt para magbakal sang pagkaon.
Siling nila kay Jacob, “Ginhambalan kami sing masakit sang gobernador sang Egypt kag ginpasibangdan nga mga espiya kuno kami.
Pero ginsabat namon siya nga indi kami mga espiya kag nagasugid kami sing matuod.
Nagsiling man kami nga Nagsiling man kami nga dose kami ka mag-ulutod kag isa lang ang amon amay. Ang isa namon ka utod patay na kag ang amon nga kamanghuran ari diri sa imo sa Canaan.
Pero amo ini ang iya ginsiling sa amon, ‘Testingan ko kamo kon matuod ang inyo ginasiling. Magpabilin diri ang isa sa inyo kag magpuli kamo nga may dala nga pagkaon para sa inyo mga pamilya nga ginagutom.
Pero dal-on ninyo diri sa akon ang inyo kamanghuran para mahibaluan ko nga nagasugid kamo sing matuod kag indi kamo mga espiya. Pagkatapos ibalik ko sa inyo ang inyo utod, kag tugutan ko kamo nga magpakadto-pakari diri sa Egypt.’ ”
Sang ginbubo na nila ang unod sang ila mga sako, nakita nila didto sa ila mga sako ang kuwarta nga ila ginbayad. Pagkakita nila sini kag sang ila amay, kinulbaan sila tanan.
Nagsiling si Jacob sa ila, “Gusto bala ninyo nga madulaan ako sang mga kabataan? Wala na si Jose, wala na si Simeon kag karon gusto naman ninyo nga kuhaon si Benjamin. Ako ya ang nagaantos.”
Nagsiling si Reuben, “Tay, ako ang bahala kay Benjamin. Patya ang duha ko ka anak nga lalaki kon indi ko siya mabalik sa imo.”
Pero nagsabat si Jacob, “Indi ko pagpaupdon sa inyo ang akon anak. Patay na ang iya utod kag siya na lang isa ang nabilin. Basi malain pa ang matabo sa iya sa dalan, kag sa katigulangon ko nga ini mapatay na lang ako nga nagapangasubo.”
Pero wala pagpaupda ni Jacob si Benjamin nga manghod ni Jose kay nahadlok siya nga basi may malain nga matabo sa iya.
Gani nagkadto ang mga anak ni Jacob
Bilang gobernador sang Egypt, responsibilidad ni Jose ang pagbaligya sang pagkaon sa bilog nga duta. Gani pag-abot sang iya mga utod, nagluhod sila kay Jose bilang pagtahod sa iya bilang pagtahod sa iya .
Naggrabe pa gid ang gutom sa Canaan.
Kon wala tani kita nag-usik sang tiyempo, siguro duha ka beses na kami nga nakabalik.”
Nagsiling ang ila amay, “Ti, kon amo sina, maglakat kamo maglakat kamo . Magdala kamo sa inyo mga suludlan sang pinakamaayo nga mga produkto diri sa aton lugar para iregalo sa gobernador: mga bulong, honey, panakot, pahamot, kag mga bunga sang bunga sang pistasyo kag almendro.
Dobleha ninyo ang dala ninyo nga kuwarta kay dapat ninyo ibalik ang kuwarta nga gin-uli sa inyo mga sako. Basi kon nagsala lang sila sadto.
Dal-a ninyo ang inyo utod kag magbalik kamo gilayon sa gobernador.
Kabay pa nga tandugon sang Makagagahom nga Dios ang tagipusuon sang gobernador para maluoy siya sa inyo kag ibalik niya sa inyo si Simeon kag si Benjamin. Pero kon indi gani sila makabalik, batunon ko na lang sing hugot sa akon tagipusuon.”
Gani nagdala ang mag-ulutod sang mga regalo kag gindoble man nila ang ila kuwarta. Dayon naglakat sila pa-Egypt kaupod si Benjamin, kag nagpakigkita sila kay Jose.
Pagkakita ni Jose nga kaupod nila si Benjamin, ginsugo niya ang iya mayordomo, “Dal-a ining mga tawo sa balay. Mag-ihaw ka sang sapat kag magluto, kay manyaga sila upod sa akon.”
Gintuman sang mayordomo ang sugo sa iya. Gani gindala niya ang mag-ulutod sa balay ni Jose.
Hinadlukan ang mag-ulutod sang gindala sila sa balay ni Jose kay naghunahuna sila, “Basi gindala kita diri tungod sang kuwarta nga ginbalik sa aton mga sako sang nahauna ta nga pagkadto diri. Basi kon dakpon nila kita, kag kuhaon ang aton mga donkey kag himuon kita nga mga ulipon.”
Gani nagpakighambal sila sa mayordomo sang sa may puwertahan pa lang sila sang balay.
Naubos na sang pamilya ni Jacob ang pagkaon nga gindala nila halin sa Egypt. Gani naghambal si Jacob sa iya mga anak, “Balik kamo didto sa Egypt kag magbakal sing bisan diutay lang nga pagkaon.”
Siling nila, “Sir, dali lang anay, may isiling kami sa imo. Nagkadto kami diri anay sa pagbakal sang pagkaon.
Sang nagapapuli na kami, Sang nagapapuli na kami, nagpalipas kami sang kagab-ihon sa isa ka lugar. Kag didto ginbuksan namon ang amon mga sako kag nakita namon sa sulod ang amo gid nga kantidad sang kuwarta nga ginbayad namon. Ari gani, gindala namon para iuli.
Nagdala pa gid kami sang dugang nga kuwarta para ibakal sang pagkaon. Wala kami kahibalo kon sin-o ang nagbutang sang amon kuwarta sa amon mga sako.”
Nagsabat ang mayordomo, “Wala ato sing kaso, kag indi kamo magkahadlok. Ang inyo Dios, nga Dios man sang inyo amay, amo siguro ang nagbutang sang sadto nga kuwarta sa inyo mga sako. Nabaton ko ang inyo bayad sadto.” Dayon gindala niya si Simeon sa ila.
Ginpasulod sang mayordomo ang mag-ulutod sa balay ni Jose kag ginhatagan sang tubig para makapanghinaw sila sang ila mga tiil. Ginhatagan man niya sang pagkaon ang ila mga donkey.
Ginpreparar sang mag-ulutod ang ila mga regalo kay Jose samtang ginahulat nila siya nga magpuli sa udto. Kay ginsilingan sila nga didto sila manyaga sa balay ni Jose.
Pag-abot ni Jose, ginhatag nila ang ila mga regalo kag nagluhod sila sa iya atubangan bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod .
Nagpamangkot si Jose sa ila kon kamusta sila. Dayon nagpamangkot man siya, “Kamusta man ang inyo amay nga tigulang na, nga inyo ginsugid anay sa akon? Buhi pa bala siya?”
Nagsabat sila, “Buhi pa si tatay kag maayo pa man siya.” Dayon nagluhod sila liwat liwat sa iya bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod .
Pagkakita ni Jose kay Benjamin nga iya utod sa iya iloy, nagsiling siya, “Amo bala ini ang inyo kamanghuran nga inyo ginsugid anay sa akon?” Ginsilingan niya dayon si Benjamin, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Dios, toto.”
Pero nagsabat si Juda sa iya, “Ginpaandaman kami sang gobernador nga indi kami magpakita sa iya kon indi namon kaupod ang amon utod nga si Benjamin nga si Benjamin .
Dayon nagdali-dali guwa si Jose kay daw mahibi na gid siya sa iya kahidlaw sa iya manghod. Nagsulod siya sa iya kuwarto kag didto naghibi.
Pagkatapos nagpanghilam-os siya kag nagbalik didto sa ila nga may pagpugong sang iya balatyagon. Dayon nagsugo siya nga ihanda na ang pagkaon.
Lain ang ginkan-an ni Jose, lain man ang ginkan-an sang iya mga utod, kag lain man ang iya sang mga Egyptohanon nga didto man nagpanyaga. Kay wala nagakaon ang mga Egyptohanon nga kaupod ang mga Hebreo, kay makangilil-ad ina para sa ila.
Dira sa atubangan ni Jose ginpapungko ang iya mga utod. Nagtinulukay ang iya mga utod kay natingala sila nga pasunod halin sa magulang hasta sa kamanghuran ang pagpapungko sa ila.
Ginserbihan sila sang pagkaon nga halin sa atubangan ni Jose pero ang ginhatag kay Benjamin nga pagkaon lima gid ka pilo ang kadamuon sang sa iban. Nagkinaon sila kag nag-ininom kaupod si Jose.
Kon paupdon mo siya sa amon mabalik kami didto kag magbakal sang pagkaon.
Pero kon indi gani, indi man kami magbalik didto, kay nagsiling ang gobernador nga indi kami magpakita sa iya kon indi namon kaupod ang amon utod.”
Nagsiling si Jacob,
Nagsabat sila, “Ano abi kay sagi gid niya kami pamangkot parte sa aton pamilya. Nagpamangkot siya kon buhi pa bala ang amon amay kag kon may utod pa bala kami nga iban. Siyempre ginsabat namon siya. Sin-o abi ang maghunahuna nga silingon niya kami nga dal-on namon didto sa iya ang amon utod?”
Gani nagsiling si Juda sa ila amay, “Tay, paupda na lang sa amon si Benjamin para makalakat na kami dayon agod indi kita tanan mapatay sa gutom.
Igarantiya ko ang akon kabuhi para kay Benjamin. Sukton mo ako kon ano ang matabo sa iya. Kon indi gani siya makabalik sa imo nga buhi, basulon mo ako hasta san-o.
Karon, ginsugo ni Jose ang mayordomo sang iya balay. Siling niya, “Pun-a sang pagkaon ang mga sako sang mag-ulutod suno sa ila madala, kag ibutang ang kuwarta nga ila ginbayad sa ila mga sako.
Nagsiling ang mayordomo, “Sige, kon makit-an ang kupa sa isa sa inyo mangin ulipon ko siya, kag ang nabilin sa inyo wala na sing salabton.”
Gani nagdali-dali ang kada isa sa pagpanaog sang ila mga sako kag gin-abrihan nila.
Dayon gin-usisa sang mayordomo ang mga sako halin sa iya sang kamagulangan hasta sa iya sang kamanghuran, kag ang kupa nakita sa sako ni Benjamin.
Pagkakita sini sang mag-ulutod, gin-gisi nila ang ila mga bayo sa kalain sang ila buot sa kalain sang ila buot . Dayon ginkarga nila liwat sa mga donkey ang ila mga sako kag nagbalik sa banwa.
Sang pag-abot ni Juda kag sang iya mga utod, didto pa gihapon si Jose sa iya balay. Nagsulod sila sa balay kag nagluhod sa atubangan ni Jose.
Nagsiling si Jose sa ila, “Ano bala ining ginhimo ninyo? Wala bala kamo makahibalo nga kahibalo ako magpakot?”
Nagsiling si Juda, “Sir, wala na kami sang may irason pa sa imo, kag indi kami makasiling nga wala kami sang sala. Ang Dios amo ang nagpahayag sang amon sala. Karon, tanan kami imo na nga ulipon—kami kag ang isa nga nakit-an sa iya ang kupa.”
Pero nagsiling si Jose, “Indi ko mahimo ina. Siya lang nga sa iya nakita ang kupa amo ang akon mangin ulipon. Kag kamo makapuli na sa inyo amay nga wala sing sablag.”
Nagpalapit si Juda kay Jose kag nagsiling, “Nagapangabay ako sa imo, sir, nga kon mahimo pamatii ako. Indi ka lang kuntani mangakig sa akon, ikaw nga daw pareho na sa hari sang Egypt.
Nagpamangkot ka sadto sa amon kon may amay pa kami kag utod,
Dayon ibutang ang akon pilak nga kupa sa sako sang kamanghuran upod sang kuwarta nga ginbayad niya sa pagkaon.”
kag ginsabat ka namon nga may amay kami nga tigulang na kag may kamanghuran nga utod nga natawo sa iya katigulangon. Patay na ang iya utod kag siya na lang ang nabilin nga anak sang iya iloy, kag palangga gid gid siya sang amon
Dayon nagsiling ka sa amon nga dal-on namon siya sa imo para makita mo man siya.
Nagsiling kami sa imo nga indi puwede nga bayaan sang amon kamanghuran ang amon amay, kay basi amo pa ini ang ikamatay niya.
Pero ginsiling mo nga indi kami magpakita sa imo kon indi namon kaupod ang amon kamanghuran.
Ini tanan ginsugid namon sa amon amay sang nagpuli kami.
Sang ulihi nagsiling ang amon amay nga magbalik kami diri liwat kag magbakal sang pagkaon.
Pero nagsiling kami sa iya nga malakat lang kami kon upod namon ang amon kamanghuran, tungod kay indi kami puwede magpakita sa imo kon indi namon kaupod ang amon kamanghuran.
Amo ini ang iya ginsabat sa amon, ‘Nahibaluan naman ninyo nga duha lang ang akon anak sa akon asawa nga si Raquel.
Ang isa wala na; siguro ginus-ab siya sang mabangis nga sapat. Kag hasta subong wala ko na siya makita.
Kon kuhaon pa gid ninyo ining isa nga nabilin sa akon, kag kon may matabo sa iya, ako nga tigulang na mapatay na lang sa kalisod.’
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, ginpalakat ang mag-ulutod upod sang ila mga donkey.
“Gani, sir, sir, ang kabuhi sang amon amay naangot sa kabuhi sang amon kamanghuran. Kon magpuli kami nga indi namon siya kaupod,
sigurado gid nga mapatay sa kasubo ang amon tigulang nga amay.
Gin-garantiya ko ang akon kabuhi para sa amon kamanghuran. Ginsilingan ko ang akon amay nga kon indi ko siya mabalik sa iya, ako ang basulon hasta san-o.
Gani, sir, ako na lang ang magpabilin diri bilang imo ulipon sa baylo niya, kag tuguti na lang siya nga magpuli upod sa iya mga utod.
Indi ako magpuli nga indi siya kaupod. Indi ko mabatas nga makita ang malain nga matabo sa amon amay.”
Indi pa gid malayo sa banwa ang ila nalaktan sang nagsiling si Jose sa iya mayordomo, “Dali, lagsa ang mga tawo! Kag kon maabtan mo sila, silinga sila, ‘Ngaa malain ang ginbalos ninyo sa kaayo nga ginpakita namon sa inyo?
Ngaa ginkuha ninyo ang kupa nga ginaimnan sang akon agalon kag ginagamit niya sa pagpakot? Malain ining inyo ginhimo.’ ”
Naabtan sang mayordomo ang mag-ulutod kag ginhambal niya ato sa ila.
Nagsiling sila sa mayordomo, “Sir, paano nga nasiling mo ina? Imposible nga himuon namon ina nga butang.
Kahibalo ka man nga halin sa Canaan gindala namon balik sa imo ang kuwarta nga nakita namon sa amon mga sako. Ti ngaa mangawat pa kami sang pilak ukon bulawan sa balay sang imo agalon?
Kon makita mo ina nga kupa nga kupa sa isa sa amon, pagapatyon siya kag mangin ulipon ninyo kami sir.”
Indi na mapunggan ni Jose ang iya kaugalingon, gani ginpaguwa niya ang iya mga suluguon. Kag sang wala na sing iban nga tawo nga kaupod si Jose, nagpakilala siya sa iya mga utod.
Silingon man ninyo siya nga Silingon man ninyo siya nga puwede siya makaestar sa duta sang Goshen upod ang iya mga kabataan kag mga kaapuhan, mga kasapatan, kag ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang, para malapit siya sa akon.
Atipanon ko siya didto sa Goshen tungod kay may lima pa ka tuig nga gutom nga magaabot. Indi ko gusto nga magutuman siya kag ang iya panimalay kag pati ang iya kasapatan.”
Nagpadayon si Jose sa pagsiling, Nagpadayon si Jose sa pagsiling, “Karon indi na lipod sa inyo, kag amo man sa akon utod nga si Benjamin, nga ako amo gid si Jose ang nagapakighambal sa inyo.
Sugiri ninyo ang akon amay parte sa kadungganan nga naangkon ko diri sa Egypt kag sa tanan nga inyo nakita. Kag dal-a ninyo siya diri gilayon sa akon.”
Dayon ginhakos ni Jose ang iya utod nga si Benjamin kag naghibi; amo man si Benjamin, nagahibi man siya samtang nagahakos kay Jose.
Dayon ginpanghalukan ni Jose ang tanan niya nga mga utod kag nagahibi siya sa ila. Amo ato nga nakapakighambal ang iya mga utod sa iya.
Sang nakaabot ang balita sa palasyo sang hari sang Egypt nga ang mga utod ni Jose nag-abot, nalipay ang hari kag ang iya mga opisyal.
Nagsiling ang hari kay Jose, “Silingon mo ang imo mga utod nga kargahan nila sang pagkaon ang ila mga sapat kag magbalik sa Canaan.
Dayon dal-on nila diri ang ila amay kag ang ila mga pamilya, kay ihatag ko sa ila ang maayo nga duta sa Egypt kag matilawan nila ang pinakamaayo nga mga produkto sini.
Silingon mo man sila nga magdala sang mga karo halin diri sa Egypt para masakyan sang ila mga asawa kag mga kabataan sa pagsaylo diri sa pagsaylo diri . Kag dal-on gid nila diri ang ila amay.
Naghibi sing tudo si Jose, gani nabatian ini sang mga Egyptohanon, kag nabalitaan ini sa palasyo sang hari.
Indi sila magkanugon sa ila mga pagkabutang tungod kay ang maayo nga mga butang sa bilog nga Egypt mangin ila.”
Gintuman ini sang mga anak ni Jacob.
Ginhatagan man niya ang kada isa sa ila sang bayo, pero ang ginhatag niya kay Benjamin lima ka bayo kag 300 ka bilog nga pilak.
Ginpadal-an man niya ang iya amay sang 10 ka donkey nga may karga nga pinakamaayo nga mga produkto sang Egypt, kag 10 ka babayi nga donkey nga may karga nga mga uyas, tinapay kag mga balalunon sang iya amay sa pagbiyahe.
Sang ginpalakat na niya ang iya mga utod, ginsilingan niya sila nga indi sila mag-away sa dalan.
Gani naghalin sila sa Egypt kag nagkadto sa ila amay sa Canaan.
Ginsugiran nila ang ila amay nga buhi si Jose, kag siya pa gani ang manugdumala sang bilog nga Egypt. Naurungan si Jacob; indi siya makapati.
Pero sang ginsugiran nila siya sang tanan nga ginsiling ni Jose sa ila, kag sang makita niya ang mga karo nga ginpadala ni Jose sa pagdala sa iya sa Egypt, nagbaskog siya.
Nagsiling si Jacob, “Kombinsido na ako! Ang akon anak nga si Jose buhi pa gali. Kadtuan ko siya antes ako mapatay.”
Nagsiling si Jose sa iya mga utod, “Ako si Jose! Matuod gid bala nga buhi pa si tatay?” Pero wala makasabat ang iya mga utod sa iya kay naurungan sila.
Gani nagsiling si Jose, “Palapit kamo sa akon.” Sang nagpalapit na sila, nagsiling siya, “Ako si Jose nga inyo utod, ang inyo ginbaligya nga gindala diri nga gindala diri sa Egypt.
Karon indi kamo magkalisod kag indi ninyo pagkaugti ang inyo kaugalingon nga ginbaligya ninyo ako diri, tungod ang Dios amo ang nagpauna sa akon diri sa pagluwas sang inyo kabuhi.
Ikaduha pa lang ini nga tuig sang tiggulutom, kag may masunod pa nga lima ka tuig nga wala sing patubas.
Pero ginpauna ako diri sang Dios para maluwas ko kamo kag mapreserbar ang madamo sa inyo diri sa kalibutan.
Gani, indi kamo ang nagpadala diri sa akon kundi ang Dios. Ginhimo niya ako nga manuglaygay sa mahal nga hari sang Egypt kag manugdumala sang iya palasyo, kag manugdumala sang bilog nga Egypt.
Karon, dali-dali kamo balik sa akon amay kag sugiran ninyo siya nga ang iya anak nga si Jose ginhimo sang Dios nga manugdumala sang bilog nga Egypt. Kag silingon ninyo siya nga ginapakadto ko siya diri sa akon sa labing madali.
Naglakat si Jacob
si Simeon kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar kag si Shaul nga anak ni Simeon sa babayi nga Canaanhon;
si Levi kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Gershon, Kohat kag Merari;
si Juda kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Er, Onan, Shela, Perez kag Zera (pero si Er kag si Onan napatay sa Canaan), kag ang mga anak ni Perez nga si Hezron kag si Hamul;
si Isacar kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Tola, Pua,
si Zebulun kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Sered, Elon kag Jaleel.
Sila ang 33 ka anak kag apo ni Jacob kay Lea nga natawo sa Padan Aram, wala labot sa iya anak nga babayi nga si Dina.
si Gad kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Zefon,
si Asher kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Imna, Ishva, Ishvi, Beria kag ang utod nila nga babayi nga si Sera, kag ang mga anak ni Beria nga si Heber kag si Malkiel.
Sila ang 16 ka anak kag apo ni Jacob kay Zilpa, ang suluguon ang suluguon nga ginhatag ni Laban kay Lea.
Ang mga anak ni Jacob kay Raquel amo si Jose kag si Benjamin.
Pagkagab-i, nagpakighambal ang Dios sa iya paagi sa isa ka palanan-awon. Gintawag sang Dios si Jacob, kag nagsabat si Jacob sa iya.
Ang mga anak ni Jose kay Asenat nga natawo sa Egypt amo si Manase kag si Efraim. (Si Asenat anak nga babayi ni Potifera nga pari sa banwa sa banwa sang On.)
si Benjamin kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Bela, Beker, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Mupim, Hupim kag Ard.
Sila ang 14 ka anak kag apo ni Jacob kay Raquel.
si Dan kag ang iya anak nga si Hushim;
si Naftali kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Jazeel, Guni, Jezer kag Shilem.
Sila ang 7 ka anak kag apo ni Jacob kay Bilha, ang suluguon ang suluguon nga ginhatag ni Laban kay Raquel.
Ang kadamuon sang mga anak kag mga apo ni Jacob nga nagkadto sa Egypt 66 tanan, kag wala pa labot diri ang mga asawa sang iya mga anak.
Pati sa duha ka anak ni Jose nga natawo sa Egypt, 70 tanan ang kabilugan sang panimalay ni Jacob sang nagkadto siya sa Egypt.
Sang wala pa sila makaabot sa Egypt, Sang wala pa sila makaabot sa Egypt, ginsugo ni Jacob si Juda nga mag-una kadto kay Jose para itudlo sa ila ang lugar sang lugar sang Goshen. Sang pag-abot na nila ni Jacob sa Goshen,
nagsakay si Jose sa iya karwahe kag nagkadto didto sa pagsugata sa iya amay. Sang magkitaay sila, ginhakos ni Jose ang iya amay kag sige ang iya hibi.
Dayon nagsiling siya, “Ako ang Dios, nga amo ang Dios sang imo amay. Indi ka magkahadlok sa pagkadto sa Egypt, kay himuon ko kamo didto nga isa ka bantog nga nasyon.
Nagsiling si Jacob kay Jose, “Karon handa na ako nga mapatay tungod nakita ko na ikaw nga buhi.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jose sa iya mga utod kag sa bilog nga panimalay sang iya amay, “Malakat ako kag sugiran ko ang hari sang Egypt nga nag-abot na ang akon mga utod kag ang bilog nga panimalay sang akon amay nga nagaestar sa Canaan.
Silingon ko siya nga manugbantay kamo sang sapat, kag gindala gani ninyo ang inyo mga sapat kag ang tanan ninyo nga pagkabutang.
Gani kon ipatawag niya kamo kag pamangkuton kon ano ang inyo trabaho,
silingon ninyo nga manugbantay kamo sang sapat halin sang gagmay pa kamo pareho sang inyo mga ginikanan, para paestaron niya kamo sa Goshen. Kay nalainan ang mga taga-Egypt sa mga manugbantay sang sapat.”
Ako mismo ang kaupod mo sa pagkadto sa Egypt kag sa pagbalik sa Canaan sa Canaan . Kag kon mapatay ka na, ara si Jose sa imo tupad.”
Ginpasakay si Jacob sang iya mga anak sa mga karo nga ginhatag sang hari sang Egypt para sakyan niya. Ginpasakay man nila ang ila mga asawa kag mga kabataan, kag naghalin sila didto sa Beersheba.
si Reuben, nga kamagulangan nga anak ni Jacob,
kag ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Hanoc, Palu, Hezron kag Carmi;
Dayon naglakat si Jose kag nagkadto sa hari sang Egypt
Pagkatapos ginbendisyunan liwat ni Jacob ang hari,
Suno sa sugo sang hari, ginpaestar ni Jose ang iya amay kag mga utod sa Egypt; ginhatag niya sa ila ang lugar sang Rameses,
Ginsustentuhan ni Jose sang pagkaon ang iya amay, mga utod, kag ang bilog nga panimalay sang iya amay, suno sa kadamuon sang ila kabataan.
Karon, puwerte na gid ang gutom, gani wala na sang pagkaon bisan diin nga lugar. Nagluya na ang mga tawo sa Egypt kag sa Canaan tungod sa gutom.
Gintipon ni Jose ang tanan nga kuwarta nga ginbayad sang mga taga-Egypt kag taga-Canaan sa pagkaon nga ila ginbakal, kag gindala niya ini sa palasyo sang hari.
Nag-abot ang tiyempo nga naubos na ang kuwarta sang taga-Egypt kag taga-Canaan. Nagkadto ang mga taga-Egypt kay Jose kag nagsiling, “Wala na kami sang kuwarta. Tagai na lang kami sang pagkaon kay daw mapatay na kami sa gutom.”
Nagsiling si Jose, “Kon wala na gid man kamo sang kuwarta, dal-a ninyo diri ang inyo mga sapat kag amo ang ibayad ninyo sa pagkaon.”
Gani gindala nila kay Jose ang ila mga kabayo, karnero, baka, kag donkey, kag ginbaylo sa pagkaon. Sa bilog nga tuig, ginsustentuhan sila ni Jose sang pagkaon sa baylo sang ila mga sapat.
Pagkaligad sang isa ka tuig, nagkadto naman ang mga tawo kay Jose kag nagsiling, “Indi lipod sa imo sir nga wala na kami sing kuwarta kag ang amon mga kasapatan ara na sa imo. Wala na gid sing may nabilin sa amon, luwas sa amon kaugalingon kag mga duta.
Gani buligi man kami nga indi kami mapatay kag indi mapabay-an ang amon mga duta. Sugot kami nga mangin ulipon sang hari kag mangin iya ang amon mga duta para lang may pagkaon kami. Tagai kami dayon sang mga binhi nga matanom para indi kami mapatay kag para indi mapabay-an ang amon mga amon mga duta.”
Ginpakilala niya dayon sa hari ang lima niya ka utod.
Gani ginbaligya sang tanan nga taga-Egypt ang ila mga duta sa kay Jose tungod puwerte na gid ang gutom. Ginbakal ini tanan ni Jose para sa hari, gani ang ato nga mga duta nangin iya sang hari.
Ginhimo ni Jose nga ulipon sang hari ang mga tawo sa bilog nga duta sang Egypt.
Ang mga duta gid lang sang mga pari ang wala mabakal ni Jose. Indi nila kinahanglan nga ibaligya ang ila mga duta tungod kay ginasustentuhan sila sang hari sang ila pagkaon.
Nagsiling si Jose sa mga tawo, “Karon nga ginbakal ko na kamo kag ang inyo mga duta para sa hari, ari ang binhi para makatanom kamo.
Kon mag-ani na gani kamo, ihatag ninyo sa hari ang ikalima nga parte sang inyo patubas. Kag ang nabilin inyo na, para may matanom kamo kag may pagkaon ang inyo bilog nga panimalay.”
Nagsiling ang mga tawo, “Sir, maayo ka gid sa amon; ginluwas mo ang amon kabuhi. Sugot kami nga mangin ulipon sang hari.”
Gani ginhimo ni Jose nga kasuguan sa duta sang Egypt nga ang ikalima nga parte sang patubas para sa hari. Ini nga kasuguan nagapadayon pa hasta subong. Ang mga duta gid lang sang mga pari ang wala ginapanag-iyahan sang hari.
Didto nag-estar ang mga Israelinhon sa Goshen nga sakop sang Egypt. Nakaangkon sila didto sang duta kag nagdamo pa gid ang ila kabataan.
Nag-estar si Jacob sa Egypt sang 17 ka tuig; nagkabuhi siya hasta sa edad nga 147 ka tuig.
Sang nabatyagan niya nga dali na lang siya mapatay, gintawag niya si Jose kag nagsiling sa iya, “Kon mahimo ibutang ang imo kamot sa tunga-tunga sang duha ko ka paa
Ginpamangkot sila sang hari, “Ano ang inyo trabaho?” Nagsabat sila, “Mga manugbantay kami sang sapat, pareho sa amon mga ginikanan.
Kon mapatay na ako, kuhaon mo ako diri sa Egypt kag ilubong mo ako sa lulubngan sang akon mga katigulangan.” Nagsabat si Jose, “Tumanon ko ang imo ginsiling.”
Nagsiling dayon si Jacob, “Magsumpa ka sa akon nga tumanon mo gid ini nga tumanon mo gid ini .” Gani nagsumpa si Jose sa iya. Dayon nagluhod si Jacob
Nagkadto kami diri para diri lang anay mag-estar tungod kay puwerte gid ang gutom sa Canaan, kag wala na sing mahalab ang amon mga kasapatan. Nagapangabay kami sa imo nga kon mahimo tugutan mo kami nga mag-estar sa Goshen.”
Nagsiling ang hari kay Jose, “Karon nga nag-abot na ang imo amay kag mga utod,
bukas ang Egypt para sa imo pamilya. Paestara sila sa Goshen, nga isa ka maayo nga duta sa Egypt. Kon may nahibaluan ka sa ila nga masaligan, himua sila nga manugbantay sang akon mga kasapatan.”
Gindala ni Jose ang iya amay sa hari kag ginpakilala. Pagkatapos bendisyon
ginpamangkot siya sang hari, “Pila na ang imo edad?”
Nagsabat siya, “130 na ka tuig. Malip-ot kag mabudlay ang akon nga pagkabuhi diri sa duta. Indi ini makatupong sa kalawigon sang pagkabuhi sang akon mga katigulangan.”
Sang ulihi may nagsugid kay Jose nga nagamasakit ang iya amay. Gani gindala niya ang iya duha ka anak nga si Manase kag si Efraim kag nagkadto sa iya kag nagkadto sa iya .
Daw indi na makakita si Israel tungod sa iya katigulangon, gani gindala ni Jose ang iya mga anak palapit kay Israel. Ginhakos sila ni Israel kag ginhalukan.
Nagsiling si Israel kay Jose, “Wala na gid ako maglaom nga makita ko pa ikaw, pero karon gintugot sang Dios nga indi lang ikaw ang akon makita kundi pati man ang imo mga anak.”
Ginkuha dayon ni Jose ang iya mga anak sa sabak ni Israel kag nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod sa iya amay bilang pagtahod sa iya amay .
Dayon ginpapalapit niya liwat liwat ang iya mga anak sa ila lolo para bendisyunan sila para bendisyunan sila . Si Efraim sa may tuo ni Jose, bali sa wala ni Israel; kag si Manase sa may wala ni Jose, bali sa tuo ni Israel.
Pero gintungtong ni Israel ang iya tuo nga kamot sa ulo ni Efraim nga amo ang manghod, kag gintungtong niya ang iya wala nga kamot sa ulo ni Manase nga amo ang magulang.
halin sang akon pagkatawo hasta subong.
Kag kabay pa nga magdamo gid sila sa kalibutan.”
Pagkakita ni Jose nga ginatungtong sang iya amay ang iya tuo nga kamot sa ulo ni Efraim, naglain iya buot. Gani gin-uyatan niya ang kamot sang iya amay para sayluhon kay Manase,
kag nagsiling, “Tay, indi ina amo. Ari ang magulang; itungtong ang imo tuo nga kamot sa iya ulo.”
Pero nagsabat ang iya amay, “Huo, nahibaluan ko man anak. Ang mga kaliwat ni Manase mangin bantog man nga katawhan. Pero mas mangin bantog ang mga kaliwat ni Efraim kag mangin madamo sila nga mga grupo sang mga katawhan.”
Sang ginsugiran si Jacob nga nag-abot ang iya anak nga si Jose, gintinguhaan niya nga makapungko sa iya hiligdaan.
Gani ginhimo niya si Efraim nga labaw sang sa kay Manase. Kag sang sadto nga adlaw, ginbendisyunan niya sila nga nagasiling, “Pagagamiton sang mga Israelinhon ang inyo mga ngalan sa pagbendisyon. Magasiling sila, ‘Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Dios pareho kay Efraim kag kay Manase.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Israel kay Jose, “Madali na lang ako mapatay, pero pagaupdan kamo sang Dios kag pabalikon sa duta sang inyo katigulangan.
Kag ikaw Jose Jose ang magapanubli sang Shekem kag indi ang imo mga utod. Ina nga lugar naangkon ko sa pagpakig-away sa mga Amornon.”
Nagsiling si Jacob kay Jose, “Sang didto pa ako sa Luz, sa duta sang Canaan, nagpakita sa akon ang Makagagahom nga Dios kag ginbendisyunan niya ako.
Siling niya, ‘Hatagan ko ikaw sang madamo nga kaliwat para mangin amay ka sang madamo nga katawhan. Kag ihatag ko ang ini nga duta sa imo mga kaliwat kag mangin ila ini hasta san-o.’ ”
Nagpadayon si Jacob sa pagsiling, Nagpadayon si Jacob sa pagsiling, “Ang duha mo ka anak nga si Efraim kag si Manase, nga natawo diri sa Egypt antes ako mag-abot, kabigon ko nga akon mga anak pareho kay Reuben kag kay Simeon.
Pero ang masunod mo nga mga anak magapabilin nga imo, kag makabaton sila sang palanublion halin kay Efraim kag kay Manase.
“Nadumduman ko nga sang paghalin namon sa Padan kag nagapanglakaton kami sa duta sang Canaan, napatay ang imo iloy.
Sang makita ni Israel
Nagsabat si Jose, “Sila ang akon mga anak nga ginhatag sa akon sang Dios diri sa Egypt sa Egypt .” Dayon nagsiling si Israel, “Dal-a sila diri sa akon para mabendisyunan ko sila.”
Dayon gintawag ni Jacob ang iya mga anak kag ginsilingan, “Magtipon kamo kay sugiran ko kamo kon ano ang matabo sa inyo sa palaabuton.
Padayon ka nga magadumala, Juda. Magahalin sa imo mga kaliwat ang mga manugdumala. Gani magahatag ang mga nasyon sang buhis sa imo kag magatuman sila sa imo.
Mangin bugana ang imo duta; Mangin bugana ang imo duta; gani bisan ihigot mo ang donkey malapit sa pinakamaayo nga tanom sang ubas, indi niya ini pagkaunon indi niya ini pagkaunon . Kag bisan ipanglaba mo pa ang ilimnon indi ini maubos indi ini maubos .
Gani sa sobra nga inom sang ilimnon magapula ang imo mata kag sa sobra nga inom sang gatas magaputi ang imo ngipon.
“Ikaw Zebulun, magaestar ka malapit sa dagat. Ang imo lugar mangin dulungkaan sang mga sakayan. Ang imo duta magalambot hasta sa Sidon.
“Ikaw Isacar, pareho ka sa makusog nga donkey pero nagaluko lang sa elistaran sang mga karnero.
Agwantahon mo nga magpaulipon bisan papas-anon ka sang mabug-at kag puwersahon nga magtrabaho, basta maayo kag bugana lang ang lugar nga imo estaran.
“Ikaw Dan, pagadumalahan mo sing maayo ang imo katawhan bilang isa sa mga tribo sang Israel.
Mangin pareho ka sa dalitan nga man-og sa higad sang dalan nga nagapanukob sang tiil sang nagaagi nga kabayo, gani nagakahulog ang nagasakay sini.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jacob, Dayon nagsiling si Jacob, “O Ginoo Ginoo , nagahulat ako sa imo pagluwas.”
“Ikaw Gad, pagasalakayon ka sang grupo sang mga tulisan, pero balusan mo sila samtang nagapalagyo sila.
Mga anak, magpalapit kamo kag magpamati sa akon nga inyo amay.
“Ikaw Asher, mangin bugana ka sa pagkaon. Magapatubas ka sang mga pagkaon nga para sa mga hari.
“Ikaw Naftali, pareho ka sa ginbuy-an nga usa nga nagabata sang matahom nga mga bata.
“Ikaw Jose, pareho ka sa maila nga donkey sa higad sang tuburan ukon sa higad sang banglid.
Dumtan ka sang mga manugpana. Sa ila kaugot pan-on ka nila,
pero sige man ang pana mo sa ila. Kag ang imo butkon padayon nga mabaskog, tungod sa bulig sang akon Gamhanan nga Dios, ang manugbantay kag ang palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato sang Israel.
Siya ang Makagagahom nga Dios sang imo mga katigulangan nga nagabulig kag nagapakamaayo sa imo. Bugayan niya ikaw sang ulan kag sang tubig sa tuburan. Bugayan niya ikaw sang madamo nga kabataan kag kasapatan.
Karon, madamo gid ang akon mga pagpakamaayo; sobra pa sa kabuganaan sang madugay na nga mga bukid. Kabay pa nga mabaton mo ini nga mga pagpakamaayo, Jose—ikaw nga labaw sang sa imo mga utod.
“Ikaw Benjamin, pareho ka sa wolf nga kon adlaw nagapangaon sang iya mabiktima, kag kon gab-i ginabahin-bahin niya ang nabilin.”
Ini sila amo ang dose ka anak ni Jacob nga ginhalinan sang mga tribo sang Israel. Kag amo ato ang pamilin-bilin ni Jacob sa kada isa sa ila.
Dayon ginbilinan ni Jacob ang iya mga anak. Siling niya, “Madali na lang ako isimpon sa akon mga paryente nga nagkalamatay na. Kon matabo na ina, nga nagkalamatay na. Kon matabo na ina, ilubong ninyo ako sa lulubngan sang akon mga katigulangan, didto sa kuweba nga ara sa uma ni Efron nga Hithanon.
“Ikaw Reuben, nga akon kamagulangan nga anak, ikaw ang nahauna nga bunga sang akon pagkalalaki. Mas dungganon ka kag mas gamhanan sang sa imo mga utod sang sa imo mga utod .
Ina nga uma didto sa Macpela, sa east sang Mamre, nga sakop sang Canaan. Ginbakal sang akon lolo nga si sang akon lolo nga si Abraham ato nga uma kay Efron para himuon nga lulubngan.
Didto siya ginlubong pati ang akon lola nga si Sara kag ang akon amay kag iloy nga ang akon amay kag iloy nga si Isaac kag si Rebeka, kag didto ko man ginlubong si Lea.
Ini nga uma kag kuweba ginbakal sa mga Hithanon.”
Pagkatapos hambal ni Jacob sa iya mga kabataan, naghigda siya kag nabugtuan sang ginhawa. Kag ginsimpon siya sa iya mga paryente nga nagkalamatay na nga nagkalamatay na .
Pero pareho ka sa nagabukal nga tubig. Kag tungod kay nagpakighilawas ka sa akon asawa nga suluguon, indi ka na labaw sang sa ila.
“Kamo Simeon kag Levi nga magkadampig, ginagamit ninyo ang inyo armas sa pagpamintas.
Indi ako mag-intra ukon magtambong sa inyo pagtilipon kay sa inyo kaakig nagpamatay kamo sang tawo kag nagpagusto kamo pamiang sang mga turo nga baka.
Pakamalauton kamo tungod sa inyo kaakig nga may kapintas. Laptahon ko ang inyo mga kaliwat sa Israel.
“Ikaw Juda, pagadayawon ka kag pagatahuron sang imo mga utod. Pierdihon mo ang imo mga kaaway.
Pareho ka sang bataon pa nga leon nga pagkatapos niya pangita sang tulukbon, nagabalik siya sa iya palanaguan kag didto nagaluko. Kag wala gid sing may nagapangahas nga mag-disturbo sa iya.
Ginhakos dayon ni Jose ang iya amay kag ginhalukan nga nagahibi.
Pag-abot nila sa linasan sa Atad, malapit sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, nagpangasubo sila didto para kay Jacob para kay Jacob kag puwerte gid ang ila paghibi. Nagpangasubo si Jose sing pito ka adlaw para sa iya amay.
Pagkakita sang mga Canaanhon sang ila pagpangasubo sa may linasan sa Atad, nagsiling sila, “Puwerte gid ang pagpangasubo sang mga Egyptohanon.” Gani ato nga lugar nga malapit sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan gintawag nga Abel Mizraim.
Gintuman sang mga anak ni Jacob ang iya ginbilin sa ila.
Kay gindala nila ang iya bangkay sa Canaan kag ginlubong sa kuweba nga ara sa uma sa Macpela, sa east sang Mamre. Ginbakal ni Abraham ang ini nga uma kay Efron nga Hithanon para himuon nga lulubngan.
Pagkatapos sang lubong, nagbalik si Jose sa Egypt upod ang iya mga utod kag ang tanan nga nag-upod sa paglubong.
Karon nga patay na ang ila amay, nagsiling ang mga utod ni Jose, “Basi nagadumot pa si Jose sa aton kag balusan niya kita sa ginhimo ta sa iya.”
Gani nagpadala sila sang mensahi kay Jose nga nagasiling, “Nagbilin ang aton amay antes siya mapatay
nga hambalon ka nga patawaron mo kami sa malain nga ginhimo namon sa imo. Gani karon, kabay pa nga patawaron mo kami nga suluguon man sang Dios sang aton amay.” Sang makaabot ang ila mensahi kay Jose, naghibi siya.
Sang ulihi nagkadto mismo ang iya mga utod sa iya. Pag-abot nila, Pag-abot nila, nagluhod sila sa iya atubangan bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod . Dayon nagsiling sila, “Handa kami nga mangin ulipon mo.”
Pero nagsabat si Jose sa ila, “Indi kamo magkahadlok. Dios bala ako?
Dayon ginsugo niya ang iya mga manugbalsamar nga balsamaron ang iya amay. Gani ginbalsamar nila siya.
Matuod nga nagplano kamo sang malain sa akon, pero ginplano na sang Dios nga magaresulta ato sang kaayuhan nga amo ang pagluwas subong sang madamo nga tawo sa gutom sa gutom .
Gani indi kamo magkahadlok. Sustentuhan ko kamo sang pagkaon pati ang inyo mga kabataan.” Ginpasalig sila ni Jose kag napahamtang ang ila balatyagon.
Nagtiner si Jose sa Egypt upod ang bilog nga panimalay sang iya amay. Nagkabuhi siya sing 110 ka tuig,
kag iya pa nakita ang iya mga apo sa tuhod sa iya anak nga si Efraim kag sa iya apo nga si Makir nga anak ni Manase. Ginkabig niya bilang kaugalingon nga anak ang mga anak ni Makir.
Karon, nagsiling si Jose sa iya mga paryente, “Madali na lang ako mapatay, pero indi gid kamo pagpabay-an sang Dios. Kuhaon niya kamo sa sini nga lugar kag dal-on sa lugar nga iya ginpromisa kay Abraham, Isaac kag Jacob.”
Dayon ginpasumpa ni Jose ang mga Israelinhon. Siling niya, “Ipromisa ninyo nga kon pahalinon na kamo diri sang Dios, dal-on man ninyo ang akon tul-an sa inyo paghalin sa sini nga lugar.”
Napatay si Jose sa edad nga 110 ka tuig. Ginbalsamar siya kag ginbutang sa lungon didto sa Egypt.
Ang kalawigon sang pagbalsamar sa iya 40 ka adlaw, suno sa kinaandan sang mga taga-Egypt. Nagpangasubo ang mga Egyptohanon para kay Jacob sa sulod sang 70 ka adlaw.
Sang matapos ang ila pagpangasubo, nagsiling si Jose sa mga opisyal sang hari sang Egypt, “Kon mahimo hambala ninyo ang hari
nga tugutan niya ako nga ilubong ko ang akon amay sa Canaan. Kay antes siya mapatay, ginpasumpa niya ako nga ilubong ko siya sa lulubngan nga iya ginpahimo sa Canaan. Pagkatapos lubong mabalik man dayon ako.”
Pagkahibalo sang hari, Pagkahibalo sang hari, nagsiling siya kay Jose, “Tumana ang imo ginsumpa sa imo amay. Lakat ka kag ilubong siya.”
Gani naglakat si Jose kaupod ang madamo nga opisyal sang hari: ang mga manugdumala sang palasyo kag ang mga manugdumala sang Egypt.
Kaupod man ang panimalay ni Jose kag ang panimalay sang iya mga utod, ang bilog nga bilog nga panimalay ni Jacob. Ang nabilin sa Goshen amo lang ang ila magagmay nga mga kabataan kag ang ila mga kasapatan.
Kaupod man nila ang mga karwahe kag mga manugkabayo. Madamo gid sila.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jacob
Kay basi bala sa tion sang inaway magadampig sila sa aton mga kaaway kag magakontra sa aton, kag dayon makapalagyo sila sa aton nasyon. Gani mangita kita sang maayo nga paagi nga indi na sila magdamo pa.”
Gani ginpadumalahan nila ang mga Israelinhon sa mga tawo nga nagpaantos kag nagpaobra sa ila sing tudo-tudo gid. Ginpaobra sa ila ang mga banwa sang Pitom kag Rameses nga bulutangan sang mga bodega sang hari sang Egypt.
Pero samtang ginapabudlayan sila nga ginapabudlayan, nagadamo pa gid gani sila nga nagadamo, kag naglalapta pa gid sila sa Egypt sa Egypt . Gani hinadlukan na gid ang mga Egyptohanon sa ila.
Tungod sini, gindugangan pa gid nila ang ila kapintas sa pag-ulipon sa mga Israelinhon.
Wala gid sila sing kaluoy sa mga Israelinhon. Ginpabudlayan gid nila sila paagi sa pagpatrabaho sa ila sa mga tisa
Dayon nagsiling ang hari sang Egypt sa mga Hebreo nga paltera nga sila ni Shifra kag Pua,
“Sa inyo pagpabata sa mga Hebreo nga babayi, patya ninyo ang bata kon lalaki, pero kon babayi, indi lang pagpatya.”
Pero tungod nga nahadlok ang mga paltera sa Dios, wala nila pagtumana ang ginsiling sang hari, sa baylo ginpabay-an nila nga mabuhi ang mga lapsag nga lalaki.
Gani ginpatawag sang hari sang Egypt ang mga paltera kag ginpamangkot, “Ngaa ginhimo ninyo ini? Ngaa ginpabay-an ninyo nga mabuhi ang mga lapsag nga lalaki?”
Nagsabat ang mga paltera, “Ang mga Hebreo nga babayi indi pareho sa mga Egyptohanon nga babayi; mahapos lang sila magbata kag sa wala pa kami makaabot nakabata na sila.”
Si Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Juda,
Gani ginpakamaayo sang Dios ang mga paltera, kag nagdamo pa gid nga nagdamo ang mga Israelinhon.
Kag tungod nga nagatahod ang mga paltera sa Dios, ginhatagan sila sang Dios sang ila kaugalingon nga pamilya.
Sang ulihi nagmando ang hari sang Egypt sa tanan niya nga katawhan, “Ipanghaboy ninyo sa Suba sang Nilo ang tanan nga bata nga lalaki sang mga Israelinhon sang mga Israelinhon nga bag-o natawo, pero pabay-i lang nga mabuhi ang mga bata nga babayi.”
Isacar, Zebulun, Benjamin,
Dan, Naftali, Gad, kag Asher.
Si Jose didto na nga daan sa Egypt. 70 tanan ang kaliwat ni Jacob sang nagkadto siya sa Egypt sang nagkadto siya sa Egypt .
Sang ulihi napatay si Jose kag ang tanan niya nga utod. Naglipas ang ina nga henerasyon,
pero madasig nga nagdamo ang ila mga kaliwat, ang kaliwat sang Israelinhon. Sa ila puwerte nga kadamo naglapta sila sa bisan diin nga parte sang Egypt.
Karon, may bag-o na nga hari sa Egypt nga wala makakilala kay Jose.
Nagsiling siya sa iya katawhan, “Tan-awa bala ninyo! Madamo na gid ang mga Israelinhon, gani delikado na ang aton kahimtangan.
May isa ka tawo nga kaliwat ni Levi nga nakapangasawa sang isa ka babayi nga kaliwat man ni Levi.
Sang nalutas na ang bata, gindala siya sang iya iloy sa prinsesa, kag ginkabig siya sang prinsesa nga iya anak. Gin-ngalanan sang prinsesa ang bata nga Moises,
Isa ka adlaw, sang dako na si Moises, nagkadto siya sa iya mga kadugo, kag nakita niya nga ginapabudlayan sila kag ginapaobra sing tudo-tudo gid. Nakita niya ang isa ka Egyptohanon nga nagakastigo sang isa ka Hebreo nga iya kadugo.
Nagpanan-aw tan-aw si Moises sa palibot kon may nagatulok; kag sang wala siya sing may nakita, ginpatay niya ang Egyptohanon kag ginlubong ang bangkay sa balas.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, naglakat liwat siya kag nakita niya ang duha ka Hebreo nga nagaaway. Ginpamangkot niya ang isa nga may sala, “Ngaa ginakastigo mo ang imo kapareho nga Hebreo?”
Nagsabat ang tawo, “Sin-o ang naghimo sa imo nga pangulo kag manughukom namon? Ano, patyon mo man bala ako pareho sa ginhimo mo sa Egyptohanon?” Hinadlukan si Moises kag nagsiling sa iya kaugalingon, “Nahibaluan gali sang mga tawo ang akon ginhimo.”
Pagkahibalo sang hari sang Egypt sa ginhimo ni Moises, nagtinguha siya sa pagpatay sa iya, pero nagpalagyo si Moises sa Midian kag didto nag-estar. Pag-abot niya sa Midian, nagpungko siya sa kilid sang bubon.
Karon, ang pito ka anak nga babayi sang pari sa Midian nagkadto sa pagsag-ob para sa mga ilimnan sang mga sapat sang ila amay.
May nag-abot man didto nga mga manugbantay sang sapat kag ginpahalin nila ang mga babayi kag ang ila mga sapat, pero ginbuligan sila ni Moises kag ginpainom pa niya ang ila mga sapat.
Pagpuli sang mga babayi sa ila amay nga si Reuel,
Nagsabat sila, “May isa ka Egyptohanon nga nagbulig sa amon kontra sa mga manugbantay sang sapat, kag ginsag-uban pa gani niya kami kag ginpainom ang amon mga sapat.”
Nagbusong ini nga babayi kag nagbata sing lalaki. Sang makita niya nga maayo ang lawas sang bata, gintago niya ini sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan.
Nagpamangkot ang ila amay, “Ti, diin na siya? Ngaa ginbayaan ninyo siya? Tawga ninyo siya kag agdaha nga magkaon.”
Nagsugot si Moises nga magdayon sa balay ni Reuel, kag sang ulihi ginpaasawa ni Reuel sa iya ang iya anak nga si Zipora.
Nagbusong Nagbusong si Zipora kag kag nagbata sing lalaki, kag gin-ngalanan siya ni Moises nga Gershom,
Pagkaligad sang malawig nga tinuig, napatay ang hari sang Egypt. Pero sige gihapon ang pag-antos sang mga Israelinhon sa ila pagkaulipon. Nagpangayo sila sang bulig, kag nakaabot ini sa Dios.
Nabatian sang Dios ang ila mga pag-ugayong, kag gindumdom niya ang iya kasugtanan kay Abraham, Isaac, kag kay Jacob.
Nakita sang Dios ang ila kahimtangan kag naluoy gid siya sa ila.
Pero sang indi na niya matago ang bata, nagkuha siya sang basket nga hinimo halin sa tanom nga tanom nga papyrus kag ginpintahan niya ini sang alkitran. Dayon ginsulod niya ang bata sa sini nga basket kag ginbutang ang basket sa mga tigbaw sa higad sang Suba sang Nilo.
Ang utod nga babayi sang sini nga bata nagatindog sa unhan nga nagatan-aw kon ano ang matabo sa bata.
Karon, ang anak nga babayi sang hari sang Egypt
Dayon ginbuksan niya ang basket kag nakita niya ang bata nga nagahibi, gani naluoy gid siya sa bata. Nagsiling siya, “Isa ini sa mga Hebreo nga bata.”
Dayon nagpalapit ang utod nga babayi sang bata sa prinsesa
Nagsabat ang prinsesa, “Sige.” Gani naglakat ang utod sang bata kag ginkadtuan niya ang ila iloy kag gindala sa prinsesa.
Nagsiling ang prinsesa sa iloy sang bata, “Dal-a ini nga bata, patitia kag atipana kag atipana para sa akon kay suhulan ko ikaw.” Gani ginkuha niya ang bata kag gin-atipan.
Isa ka adlaw, nagabantay si Moises sa mga kasapatan sang iya ugangan nga si Jetro
Gani ipadala ko ikaw sa hari sang Egypt sa pagpaguwa sang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.”
Pero nagsiling si Moises sa Dios, “Sin-o gid ako nga magkadto sa hari kag magpaguwa sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt?”
Nagsiling ang Dios, “Magaupod ako sa imo, kag amo ini ang mangin tanda nga ako ang nagpadala sa imo: Kon mapaguwa mo na gani ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt, magasimba kamo sa akon sa sini nga bukid.”
Nagsiling si Moises sa Dios, “Halimbawa, makadto ako sa mga Israelinhon kag magsiling sa ila nga ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan amo ang nagpadala sa akon sa ila, kag mamangkot sila sa akon, ‘Sin-o ang iya ngalan?’ Ti, ano ang akon isabat sa ila?”
Nagsabat ang Dios kay Moises, “ Ako ang Dios nga amo sa gihapon Ako ang Dios nga Dios nga amo sa gihapon .
Nagsiling pa gid ang Dios kay Moises, “Ihambal ini sa mga Israelinhon: ‘Ang Ginoo Ginoo ,
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo kay Moises, Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Lakat kag tipuna ang mga manugdumala sang Israel kag silinga sila, ‘Ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob, nagpakita sa akon, kag nagsiling: Ginabantayan ko gid kamo, kag nakita ko ang ginahimo sang mga Egyptohanon sa inyo.
Nagapromisa ako nga paguwaon ko kamo sa Egypt nga sa diin nagaantos kamo, kag dal-on sa duta sang mga Canaanhon, Hithanon, Amornon, Periznon, Hivhanon, kag mga Jebusnon—ang duta nga maayo kag mapatubason.’
“Magapamati sa imo ang mga manugdumala sang Israel. Kag dayon, ikaw kag ang mga manugdumala magkadto sa hari sang Egypt kag magsiling sa iya, ‘Nagpakigkita sa amon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang mga Hebreo. Gani kon mahimo tuguti kami sa paglakat sing tatlo ka adlaw sa kamingawan sa paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.’
Pero nahibaluan ko nga indi kamo pagtugutan sang hari sang Egypt luwas lang kon may magpilit sa iya.
Didto nagpakita sa iya ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa dagway sang nagadabadaba nga kalayo sa tunga sang kahoy-kahoy. Nakita ni Moises nga nagadabadaba ang kahoy-kahoy pero wala ini nagakasunog.
Gani silutan ko ang mga Egyptohanon paagi sa mga milagro nga himuon ko sa ila. Pagkatapos tugutan na niya kamo sa paglakat.
Kag himuon ko nga magmaayo sa inyo ang mga Egyptohanon, para kon maglakat na kamo pabalunan pa nila kamo.
Ang mga babayi nga Israelinhon nga Israelinhon magapangayo sang mga alahas nga pilak kag bulawan kag sang mga bayo sa ila kasilingan nga mga Egyptohanon nga mga Egyptohanon kag sa mga pangayaw didto sa Egypt. Kag ipasuksok ninyo ini nga mga butang sa inyo mga kabataan. Sa sini nga paagi, makuhaan ninyo sang mga pagkabutang ang mga Egyptohanon.”
Nagsiling siya, “Makatilingala! Ngaa bala wala nagakasunog ina nga kahoy-kahoy? Palapitan ko abi kag tan-awon.”
Pagkakita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpalapit si Moises sa pagtan-aw, nagtawag siya sa iya halin sa tunga sang kahoy-kahoy, “Moises, Moises!” Nagsabat si Moises, “Ano tani?”
Nagsiling ang Dios, “Indi ka na magpalapit pa. Ubaha ang imo sandalyas, kay balaan ang lugar nga imo ginatindugan.
Ako ang Dios sang imo mga katigulangan, ang Dios ni Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob.” Gintabunan ni Moises ang iya guya, kay nahadlok siya magtan-aw sa Dios.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Nakita ko gid ang pag-antos sang akon katawhan sa Egypt. Nabatian ko ang ila pagpangayo sang bulig tungod sa pagpaantos sa ila sang mga nagadumala sa ila sa trabaho, kag naluoy gid ako sa ila tungod sa ila mga pag-antos.
Gani nagpanaog ako sa pagluwas sa ila sa kamot sang mga Egyptohanon, kag sa pagdala sa ila sa maayo, malapad, kag mapatubason nga duta,
Karon pamatii ini pamatii ini ! Nabatian ko ang pagpangayo sang bulig sang mga Israelinhon, kag nakita ko kon paano sila ginapabudlayan sang mga Egyptohanon.
Nagsabat si Moises, “Paano kon indi magpati sa akon ang mga Israelinhon ukon magpamati sa akon isiling? Paano kon magsiling sila, ‘Wala nagpakita sa imo ang Ginoo Ginoo ’?”
Nagsiling si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Ginoo, indi ako maayo maghambal. Halin pa sang una pigaw ako pahambalon, kag bisan subong nga nagapakighambal ka sa akon nga imo alagad. Nagautol-utol ako kon maghambal.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Sin-o bala ang nagahimo sang baba sang tawo? Sin-o bala ang nagahimo sa iya nga bungol ukon apa? Sin-o bala ang nagabuot nga makakita siya ukon mabulag? Indi bala ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo ?
Gani lakat, kay buligan ko ikaw sa paghambal kag tudluan ko ikaw kon ano ang imo ihambal.”
Pero nagsiling si Moises, “O Ginoo, kon mahimo magpadala ka na lang sang iban.”
Naakig ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, kag nagsiling siya, “Ti, si Aaron na lang nga imo utod, nga kaliwat man ni Levi. Nahibaluan ko nga maayo siya maghambal. Nagapakadto na siya gani diri sa pagpakigkita sa imo. Malipay gid siya kon makita niya ikaw.
Estoryahon mo siya, kag tudluan mo siya kon ano ang iya ihambal. Buligan ko kamo nga duha sa paghambal, kag tudluan ko man kamo kon ano ang inyo himuon.
Si Aaron ang magahambal sa mga tawo para sa imo. Tudluan mo siya kon ano ang iya ihambal, subong nga daw ikaw ang Dios.
Kag dal-a ang imo baston agod paagi sina makahimo ka sang mga milagro.”
Nagbalik si Moises kay Jetro nga iya ugangan kag nagsiling sa iya, “Tuguti ako sa pagbalik sa akon mga kadugo sa Egypt sa pagtan-aw kon bala buhi pa sila.” Nagsiling si Jetro, “Sige, kag maayo lang nga paglakat.”
Antes maghalin si Moises sa Midian nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Sige, balik na sa Egypt kay nagkalamatay na ang tanan nga gusto magpatay sa imo.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Ano inang ginauyatan mo?” Nagsabat si Moises, “Baston.”
Gani ginkuha ni Moises ang iya asawa kag mga anak nga lalaki kag ginpasakay sa donkey kag nagbalik sa Egypt. Gindala man niya ang baston nga ginsugo nga ginsugo sang Dios nga iya dal-on nga iya dal-on .
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Pag-abot mo sa Egypt, himuon mo gid sa atubangan sang hari ang tanan nga milagro nga ginapahimo ko sa imo. Ginhatagan ko ikaw sang gahom sa paghimo sina. Pero patig-ahon ko ang tagipusuon sang hari para indi niya pagtugutan nga maghalin ang mga Israelinhon.
Dayon silingon mo siya, ‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Ginakabig ko ang Israel nga akon kamagulangan nga anak nga lalaki,
gani ginsugo ko ikaw nga palakton mo siya para makasimba siya sa akon, pero wala ka magsugot. Gani patyon ko ang kamagulangan mo nga anak nga lalaki!’ ”
Sang nagapanglakaton na si Moises kag ang iya pamilya, si Moises kag ang iya pamilya, nagpahuway sila sa isa ka palahuwayan. Ginkadtuan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises kag patyon kuntani.
Karon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Aaron, “Lakat kag sugataa si Moises sa kamingawan.” Gani ginsugata niya si Moises sa Bukid sang Dios kag ginhalukan bilang pag-abiabi bilang pag-abiabi .
Ginsugiran dayon ni Moises si Aaron sang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihambal niya, kag sang tanan nga milagro nga ipahimo sa iya.
Gani naglakat sila nga duha, kag gintipon nila ang tanan nga manugdumala sang mga Israelinhon.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ihaboy ina sa duta.” Gani ginhaboy ni Moises ang baston kag nahimo ini nga man-og, kag nagdalagan siya palayo sini.
Ginsugiran sila ni Aaron sang tanan nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises. Kag ginhimo ni Moises ang mga milagro sa atubangan sang mga tawo,
kag nagpati sila. Sang nahibaluan nila nga nagakabalaka ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila kag nakita niya ang ila mga pag-antos, nagluhod sila kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Dakpa ang man-og sa ikog.” Gani gindakop ni Moises ang man-og kag nahimo ini liwat liwat nga baston.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Himua ini nga milagro para magpati sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob, nagpakita sa imo.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ibutang ang imo kamot sa sulod sang imo bayo.” Gintuman ini ni Moises, kag sang ginkuha na niya ang iya kamot, puwerte ini kaputi tungod nga gintubuan ini sang delikado nga balatian sa panit.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ibutang liwat ang imo kamot sa sulod sang imo bayo.” Gintuman ini ni Moises, kag sang ginkuha na niya ang iya kamot, maayo na ini pareho sa iban nga mga parte sang iya lawas.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon indi sila magpati sa una nga milagro, mapati na sila sa ikaduha.
Pero kon indi pa gid gani sila magpati sa imo pagkatapos sining duha ka milagro, magkuha ka sang tubig sa Suba sang Nilo kag ibubo ini sa mamala nga duta, kag mahimo ini nga dugo.”
Sang ulihi nagkadto si Moises kag si Aaron sa hari sang Egypt
Gani naglakat sila sa mga Israelinhon kag nagsiling, “Nagsugo ang hari nga indi na namon kamo paghatagan sang dagami.
Kamo na ang magpangita sini bisan diin, pero amo man gihapon kadamo nga tisa ang inyo himuon.”
Gani naglalapta ang mga Israelinhon sa bilog nga Egypt sa pagpanguha sang dagami.
Ginapadali sila sang mga manugdumala sa trabaho nga nagasiling, “Himua ninyo ang amo gihapon nga kadamuon sang tisa kada adlaw pareho sang inyo ginahimo sadto sang ginahatagan pa kamo sang dagami.”
Dayon ginkastigo nila ang mga porman nga Israelinhon kag ginpamangkot, “Ngaa wala ninyo mahimo kahapon kag subong ang kadamuon sang tisa nga ginapahimo sa inyo, nga pareho kadamo sadto?”
Gani nagkadto dayon ang mga porman nga Israelinhon sa hari kag nagreklamo, “Ngaa amo ini ang pagtratar mo sa amon nga imo mga suluguon?
Wala kami ginahatagan sang dagami, pero ginapilit kami nga maghimo sang amo man gihapon kadamo nga tisa, kag ginakastigo pa kami. Sala gid ini sang imo mga tinawo!”
Nagsiling ang hari, “Mga matamad gid kamo, amo ina nga nagapangabay kamo nga palakton ko kamo para makahalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Balik na kamo sa inyo mga obra! Indi kamo paghatagan sang dagami, pero amo man gihapon kadamo nga tisa ang inyo himuon.”
Tungod nga nag-insister ang hari nga himuon gid nila ang kadamuon sang tisa nga ginapahimo sa ila kada adlaw, nareyalisar sang mga porman nga Israelinhon nga mabudlayan gid sila.
Nagsiling ang hari, “Sin-o gid ang Ginoo Ginoo nga magpati ako sa iya kag magtugot nga palakton ko ang mga Israelinhon? Wala ako nakakilala sa Ginoo Ginoo kag indi ko pagpalakton ang mga Israelinhon.”
Paghalin nila sa hari, nakita nila si Moises kag si Aaron nga nagahulat sa ila.
Nagsiling sila kay Moises kag kay Aaron, “Kabay pa nga silutan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay tungod sa inyo nangakig sa amon ang hari kag ang iya mga opisyal. Ang inyo ginhimo mangin kabangdanan sa pagpatay nila sa amon.”
Nagdangop liwat si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagpangamuyo, “O Ginoo, ngaa ginapaantos mo ang imo katawhan? Ngaa bala nga ginpadala mo pa ako sa ila sa ila ?
Halin sang ginsugid ko sa hari ang imo mensahi, ginpintasan pa gid niya ang imo katawhan, kag wala mo gid sila pagluwasa.”
Nagsabat si Moises kag si Aaron, “Nagpakita sa amon ang Dios sang mga Israelinhon. Gani kon mahimo tuguti kami sa paglakat sing tatlo ka adlaw sa kamingawan para makahalad kami sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, kay kon indi gani, pamatyon niya kami paagi sa balatian ukon inaway.”
Pero nagsiling ang hari sang Egypt, “Ngaa pauntaton ninyo ang mga tawo sa ila trabaho? Balik na kamo sa inyo mga obra!
Tan-awa kon daw ano kadamo sang tawo nga pauntaton ninyo sa pag-obra.”
Sadto gid nga adlaw, nagmando ang hari sa mga Egyptohanon nga Egyptohanon nga nagadumala sa mga Israelinhon sa trabaho kag sa mga porman nga Israelinhon. Siling niya, nga Israelinhon. Siling niya,
“Indi na kamo maghatag sa mga trabahador sang mga dagami nga gamiton nila sa paghimo sang mga tisa, kundi sila na mismo ang magpanguha sini.
Pero dapat amo man gihapon kadamo nga tisa ang ila himuon. Mga matamad sila, amo ina nga nagapangabay sila nga palakton ko sila para makahalad sila sa ila Dios.
Paobraha pa gid sila sing tudo para magsako pa gid sila kag indi na magsagi pamati sa mga binutig.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Karon makita mo kon ano ang pagahimuon ko sa hari sang Egypt.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
“Lakat, kag silinga ang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt nga pahalinon na niya ang mga Israelinhon sa iya nasyon.”
Pero nagsiling si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon ang mga Israelinhon indi gani magpamati sa akon, ang hari pa ayhan? Labi na nga indi ako maayo maghambal!”
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron, “Silinga ninyo ang mga Israelinhon kag ang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt nga ginsugo ko kamo sa pagpaguwa sa mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.”
Amo ini ang mga katigulangan sang mga panimalay nga naghalin sa mga tribo sang Israel: Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Reuben, nga kamagulangan nga anak ni Israel, amo sila ni Hanoc, Palu, Hezron, kag Carmi. Sila kag ang ila mga kaliwat amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Reuben.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Simeon amo sila ni Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jakin, Zohar, kag Shaul. (Ining si Shaul anak ni Simeon sa Canaanhon nga babayi.) Sila kag ang ila mga kaliwat amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Simeon.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Levi suno sa kasaysayan sang iya mga kaliwat amo sila ni Gershon, Kohat, kag Merari. Nagkabuhi si Levi sing 137 ka tuig.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Gershon amo si Libni kag si Shimei.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Kohat amo sila ni Amram, Izhar, Hebron, kag Uziel. Nagkabuhi si Kohat sing 133 ka tuig.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Merari amo si Mali kag si Mushi. Amo ini ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Levi suno sa kasaysayan sang iya mga kaliwat.
Nagsiling pa gid ang Dios kay Moises, “Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpangasawa ni Amram si Jokebed nga utod sang iya amay. Kag ang ila mga anak nga lalaki amo si Aaron kag si Moises. Nagkabuhi si Amram sing 137 ka tuig.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Izhar amo sila ni Kora, Nefeg, kag Zicri.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Uziel amo sila ni Mishael, Elzafan, kag Sitri.
Ginpangasawa ni Aaron si Elisheba, nga anak ni Aminadab kag utod ni Nashon. Ang ila mga anak nga lalaki amo sila ni Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, kag Itamar.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Kora amo sila ni Asir, Elkana, kag Abiasaf. Sila kag ang ila mga kaliwat amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Kora.
Sila amo ang mga katigulangan sang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Levi.
Ang Aaron kag Moises nga ginmitlang sa sini nga lista amo man ang Aaron kag Moises nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga paguwaon ang bilog nga puwersa sang Israel sa Egypt.
Amo ini sila ang nagpakighambal sa Faraon nga hari sang Egypt nga paguwaon ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.
Sang nagpakig-estorya sadto ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises sa Egypt,
nagsiling siya sa iya, “Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Sugiri ang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt sang tanan nga ginsiling ko sa imo.”
Nagpakita ako kay Abraham, kay Isaac, kag kay Jacob bilang Makagagahom nga Dios, pero wala ko ginpahayag sa ila ang akon ngalan nga Ginoo Ginoo
Pero nagsiling si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ako maayo maghambal, gani indi magpamati ang hari sa akon.”
Naghimo ako sang kasugtanan sa ila, nga ihatag ko sa ila ang duta sang Canaan nga sa diin nag-estar sila bilang mga pangayaw.
Nabatian ko ang mga pag-ugayong sang mga Israelinhon nga ginaulipon sang mga Egyptohanon, kag ginadumdom ko ang akon kasugtanan sa ila sa ila .
Gani silinga ang mga Israelinhon: ‘Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Hilwayon ko kamo sa pagkaulipon sa Egypt. Paagi sa akon gahom, silutan ko sing puwerte gid ang mga Egyptohanon, kag luwason ko kamo.
Kabigon ko kamo nga akon katawhan kag ako mangin inyo Dios. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga naghilway sa inyo sa pagkaulipon sa Egypt.
Dal-on ko kamo sa duta nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag kay Abraham, Isaac kag Jacob. Ihatag ko ini sa inyo, kag inyo ini panag-iyahan. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .’ ”
Ginhambal ini ni Moises sa mga Israelinhon, pero wala sila nagpati sa iya tungod kay nadulaan na sila sing paglaom sa sobra nga pagpaantos sa ila bilang mga ulipon.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Pamati! Himuon ko ikaw nga daw isa ka dios para sa hari sang Egypt.
Gani nagkadto si Moises kag si Aaron sa hari kag ginhimo nila ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginhaboy ni Aaron ang iya baston sa atubangan sang hari kag sang iya mga opisyal, kag nahimo ini nga man-og.
Ginpatawag dayon sang hari ang iya mga maalamon nga tawo kag mga madyikero, kag paagi sa ila nga mga madyik, nahimo man nila ang pareho sadto nga milagro.
Ang kada isa sa ila naghaboy sang ila baston kag nahimo man ini nga mga man-og. Pero ginlamon sang man-og ni Aaron ang ila mga man-og.
Pero matig-a gihapon ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag wala siya nagpamati kay Moises kag kay Aaron, pareho sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Matig-a gid ang tagipusuon sang hari; indi niya pagpalakton ang katawhan sang Israel sang Israel .
Gani kadtuan mo ang hari buwas sa aga sa iya pagkadto sa Suba sang Nilo. Didto ka magpakigkita sa iya sa higad sang suba kag dal-on mo gid ang imo baston nga nahimo nga man-og.
Silingon mo siya, ‘Ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang mga Hebreo, nagsugo sa akon sa pagsiling sini sa imo: Palakta ang akon katawhan para makasimba sila sa akon sa kamingawan. Pero hasta subong wala ka gid nagtuman.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga paagi sa akon pagahimuon mahibaluan mo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Paagi sa sini nga baston, hampakon ko ang tubig sang Nilo kag mahimo ang tubig nga dugo.
Magakalamatay ang mga isda, kag magabaho ang suba, kag indi na makainom ang mga Egyptohanon sang tubig sini.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Silinga si Aaron nga itudlo niya ang iya baston sa mga katubigan sang Egypt: sa mga suba, sapa, kanal, punong kag sa tanan nga ginatipunan sang tubig, kag mahimo ini tanan nga dugo. Amo ini ang matabo sa bisan diin sa Egypt. Pati ang tubig sa mga suludlan suludlan
Sugiri si Aaron sang tanan nga ginasiling ko sa imo, kag ipasiling ini sa iya sa hari. Silingon niya ang hari nga paguwaon niya ang mga Israelinhon sa iya nasyon.
Gintuman ni Moises kag ni Aaron ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Samtang nagatulok ang hari kag ang iya mga opisyal, ginbayaw ni Aaron ang iya baston kag ginhampak sa Suba sang Nilo, kag ang tanan nga tubig nahimo nga dugo.
Nagkalamatay ang mga isda kag nagbaho gid ang suba, gani indi na makainom ang mga Egyptohanon. Bisan diin sa Egypt may mga dugo.
Pero ginhimo man ini nga milagro sang mga madyikero nga Egyptohanon paagi sa ila madyik. Gani matig-a gihapon ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag wala siya nagpamati kay Moises kag kay Aaron, pareho sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagbalik ang hari sa iya palasyo, kag wala lang niya ato ginsapak.
Nagkutkot ang mga Egyptohanon sa palibot sang Suba sang Nilo para makakuha sang ilimnon nga tubig, kay indi na nila mainom ang tubig sa suba.
Pagkaligad sang pito ka adlaw halin sang paghampak sang Ginoo Ginoo sang Suba sang Nilo paagi kay Aaron paagi kay Aaron ,
Pero patig-ahon ko ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag bisan pa maghimo ako sang madamo nga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang sa Egypt,
indi siya magpamati sa inyo. Dayon silutan ko ang Egypt sing puwerte gid, kag paguwaon ko ang bilog nga puwersa sang Israel nga akon katawhan.
Kon masilutan ko na ang mga Egyptohanon, kag mapaguwa ko na ang mga Israelinhon sa ila nasyon, mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gintuman ni Moises kag ni Aaron ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
Nagaedad si Moises sing 80 ka tuig kag si Aaron 83 sang nagpakighambal sila sa hari sang Egypt.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron,
“Kon magsiling ang hari sang Egypt nga maghimo kamo sang milagro, ikaw Moises magsiling kay Aaron, ‘Ihaboy ang imo baston sa atubangan sang hari, kag mahimo ini nga man-og.’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Kadtui ang hari sang Egypt
Nagsabat ang hari, “ Pangamuyui ako Pangamuyui ako buwas.” Nagsiling si Moises, “Matuman ina suno sa ginsiling mo para mahibaluan mo nga wala na sing iban nga pareho sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Madula ang tanan nga paka sa inyo; ang mabilin lang amo ang sa Suba sang Nilo.”
Paghalin ni Moises kag ni Aaron sa hari, nagpangamuyo si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo nga kuhaon niya ang mga paka nga iya ginpadala sa Egypt.
Kag gintuman sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ginpangabay ni Moises. Nagkalamatay ang mga paka sa mga balay, sa mga ugsaran, kag sa mga kaumahan.
Gintipon ini sang mga Egyptohanon kag mataas gid ang ila mga tinumpok, kag nagbaho ang bilog nga bilog nga duta sang Egypt sang Egypt .
Pero pagkakita sang hari nga wala na ang mga paka, ginpatig-a niya liwat ang iya tagipusuon, kag wala siya nagpamati kay Moises kag kay Aaron, pareho sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Silinga si Aaron nga ihampak niya ang baston sa duta, kag mahimo nga mga lamok
Gintuman nila ini, kag sang ginhampak ni Aaron sang iya baston ang duta, nahimo nga mga lamok ang mga yab-ok sa bilog nga duta sang Egypt. Kag nagsalakay ang mga lamok sa mga tawo kag sa mga sapat.
Gintinguhaan man ini sang mga madyikero nga sundon paagi sa ila mga madyik, pero wala nila masunod. Padayon nga nagasalakay ang mga lamok sa mga tawo kag sa mga sapat.
Nagsiling ang mga madyikero sa hari, “Dios ang naghimo sini!” Pero matig-a gihapon ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag wala gid siya nagpamati, pareho sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon indi mo gani sila pagpalakton, padagsaon ko ang mga paka sa bilog mo nga nasyon.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Aga ka pa magbangon buwas kag kadtui ang hari samtang nagapakadto siya sa suba. Silinga siya nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: ‘Palakta ang akon katawhan para makasimba sila sa akon.
Kon indi mo gani sila pagpalakton, padal-an ko ikaw sang madamo gid nga mga sapat-sapat nga magahalit sa imo kag sa imo mga opisyal kag katawhan. Mapuno sang mga sapat-sapat ang inyo mga balay, kag ang duta matabunan sini.
Pero indi mangin pareho sina sa duta sang Goshen nga sa diin nagaestar ang akon katawhan; indi makita didto ang madamo gid nga mga sapat-sapat, para mahibaluan ninyo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ara sa sina nga sina nga lugar.
Lainon ko ang akon pagtratar sa akon katawhan sa imo katawhan. Ini nga milagro himuon ko buwas.’ ”
Ginhimo matuod ini sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsulod ang madamo gid nga mga sapat-sapat sa palasyo sang hari kag sa mga balay sang iya mga opisyal, kag ang bilog nga duta sang Egypt nahalitan sini.
Gani ginpatawag dayon sang hari si Moises kag si Aaron, kag ginsilingan, “Sige, maghalad kamo sa inyo Dios, pero diri lang sa Egypt.”
Nagsabat si Moises, “Indi puwede nga diri kami maghalad sa Egypt, kay ang amon mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios makangilil-ad para sa mga Egyptohanon. Kag kon maghalad kami sang mga halad nga makangilil-ad para sa ila, sigurado nga batuhon nila kami.
Kinahanglan malakat kami sing tatlo ka adlaw pakadto sa kamingawan sa paghalad didto sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, suno sa ginsugo niya sa amon.”
Nagsiling ang hari, “Tugutan ko kamo nga maghalad sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa kamingawan, pero indi lang kamo magpalayo. Karon, pangamuyui na ninyo ako.”
Nagsabat si Moises, “Sige, paghalin ko diri, mangamuyo ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag sa buwas madula na sa inyo tanan ang mga sapat-sapat. Pero siguraduhon mo nga indi mo kami pagtuntuhon liwat nga indi kami pagpalakton sa paghalad sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Mapuno sang mga paka ang Suba sang Nilo kag magasulod sila sa imo palasyo, sa imo kuwarto kag bisan sa imo hiligdaan. Magasulod man sila sa mga balay sang imo mga opisyal kag sang imo katawhan, kag pati sa mga dapog kag sa ginamasahan sang harina.
Naghalin dayon si Moises, kag nagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo ,
kag gintuman sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ginpangabay ni Moises. Naghalin ang mga sapat-sapat sa tanan nga Egyptohanon. Wala gid sing may nabilin nga mga sapat-sapat.
Pero ginpatig-a gihapon sang hari ang iya tagipusuon kag wala niya pagpalakta ang mga Israelinhon.
Luksuhan ka sang mga paka pati ang imo katawhan kag ang tanan mo nga opisyal.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Silinga si Aaron nga iuntay niya ang iya kamot nga may baston sa mga suba, sapa, kanal, kag sa mga punong, kag magaguluwa ang mga paka sa bilog nga Egypt.”
Gani gin-untay ni Aaron ang iya kamot sa mga tubig sang Egypt, kag nagguluwa ang mga paka kag naglapta sa bilog nga Egypt.
Pero ginhimo man ini nga milagro sang mga madyikero paagi sa ila mga madyik. Napaguwa man nila ang mga paka sa mga katubigan sang mga katubigan sang Egypt.
Ginpatawag sang hari si Moises kag si Aaron kag ginsilingan, “Magpangamuyo kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga kuhaon niya ang mga paka sa akon kag sa akon katawhan, kag palakton ko ang inyo inyo mga kasimanwa sa paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling si Moises sa hari, “Hambala lang ako kon san-o ako magpangamuyo para sa imo, sa imo mga opisyal, kag sa imo katawhan, para madula inang mga paka sa inyo kag sa inyo mga balay. Kag ang mabilin lang nga mga paka amo ang sa Suba sang Nilo.”
Gani nagkuha si Moises kag si Aaron sang abo sa hurnohan kag nagtindog sa atubangan sang hari. Ginsabwag ini ni Moises sa hangin, kag gintubuan sang mga hubag ang mga tawo kag mga sapat.
Bisan ang mga madyikero indi makaatubang kay Moises, kay pati sila gintubuan man sang mga hubag pareho sa tanan nga Egyptohanon.
Pero ginpatig-a pa gid sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag wala gid siya nagpamati kay Moises kag kay Aaron, pareho sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Aga ka pa magbangon buwas kag kadtui ang hari, kag silinga, ‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang mga Hebreo: Palakta ang akon katawhan para makasimba sila sa akon.
Kay kon indi gani, magapadala ako sang grabe gid nga kahalitan sa imo, sa imo mga opisyal, kag sa imo katawhan para mahibaluan mo nga wala na sang pareho sa akon sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Bisan sadto pa, puwede ko ikaw laglagon kag ang imo katawhan paagi sa balatian, kag wala ka na kuntani subong.
Pero gintugutan ko ikaw nga mabuhi para sa sini nga katuyuan: agod mapakita ko sa imo ang akon gahom kag agod mangin bantog ang akon ngalan sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Pero nagapabugal ka gihapon sa akon katawhan, kag wala mo sila gintugutan nga maglakat.
Gani buwas, sa amo man sini nga oras, paulanon ko sang yelo nga puwerte kabaskog, nga wala pa gid matabo sa Egypt halin sang pagtukod sini.
Gani magsugo ka gilayon nga pasilungan ang tanan mo nga kasapatan kag ang tanan mo nga ulipon nga ara sa uma, kay ang tanan nga ara sa guwa, tawo man ukon sapat, magakalamatay kon matup-an sang ulan nga yelo.’ ”
Kon indi mo pa gid gani sila pagpalakton,
Ang iban nga mga opisyal sang hari hinadlukan sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani dali-dali nila nga ginpapasilong ang ila mga ulipon kag mga kasapatan.
Pero may iban nga wala nagsapak sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo ; ginpabay-an nila sa guwa ang ila mga ulipon kag mga kasapatan.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Ibayaw ang imo baston
Gani sang ginbayaw ni Moises ang iya baston sa langit, ginpadaguob sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginpaulan sang yelo kag ginpakilat. Ang mga yelo nga ginpaulan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa duta sang Egypt
amo ang pinakagrabe halin sang nangin isa ka nasyon ang Egypt. Samtang nagaulan sang mga yelo, sige ang pangilat.
Ang tanan nga tawo kag sapat nga ara sa guwa nahalitan, pati ang tanan nga tanom kag kahoy.
Ang wala lang maulanan sang yelo amo ang Goshen nga sa diin nagaestar ang mga Israelinhon.
Ginpatawag dayon sang hari si Moises kag si Aaron. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Sini nga tion ginaako ko nga nakasala ako. Husto ang Ginoo Ginoo ; kag ako kag ang akon katawhan amo ang sala.
Pangabaya ang Ginoo Ginoo nga untatan na niya ining puwerte nga daguob kag ulan nga yelo. Palakton ko na kamo; indi na kamo dapat magpabilin pa diri.”
Nagsabat si Moises, “Kon makaguwa na ako sa siyudad, bayawon ko ang akon mga kamot sa pagpangamuyo sa pagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon magauntat ang daguob kag indi na mag-ulan sang yelo, para mahibaluan mo nga ang kalibutan iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
padal-an ko sang makamamatay nga balatian ang imo mga kasapatan nga ara sa uma—mga kabayo, mga donkey, mga camel, mga baka, mga karnero, kag mga kanding.
Pero nahibaluan ko nga ikaw kag ang imo mga opisyal wala gihapon nagakahadlok sa Ginoong Ginoong Dios.”
(Nagkalapierdi ang mga tanom nga tanom nga flax
Pero wala nagkalapierdi ang mga trigo kag espelta
Naghalin si Moises sa hari kag nagguwa sa siyudad. Ginbayaw niya ang iya mga kamot sa pagpangamuyo sa pagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo ; kag nag-untat ang daguob, ang pagtupa sang mga yelo, kag ang ulan.
Pagkakita sang hari nga nag-untat na ang ulan, ang mga yelo, kag ang daguob, nagpakasala siya liwat. Ginpatig-a niya kag sang iya mga opisyal ang ila tagipusuon.
Sa katig-a sang iya tagipusuon wala niya pagpalakta ang mga Israelinhon, pareho sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
Pero lainon ko ang akon pagtratar sa kasapatan sang mga Israelinhon sa kasapatan sang mga Egyptohanon, para wala sing may mapatay sa mga kasapatan sang mga Israelinhon.’ ”
Ginpahibalo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon niya ini pagkasunod nga adlaw,
kag ginhimo niya matuod ini. Nagkalamatay ang tanan nga kasapatan sang mga Egyptohanon nga ara sa uma, nga ara sa uma, pero wala gid sing may napatay sa mga kasapatan sang mga Israelinhon.
Nagpadala ang hari sang mga tawo sa pag-usisa kon matuod nga wala sing may napatay sa mga kasapatan sang mga Israelinhon. Pero bisan nahibaluan niya nga matuod ini, matig-a gihapon ang iya tagipusuon kag wala niya pagpalakta ang mga Israelinhon.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron, “Magkuha kamo sang tag-isa ka hakop nga abo sa hurnohan kag isabwag ini ni Moises sa hangin sa atubangan sang hari.
Magalapta ini nga yab-ok sa bilog nga Egypt, kag tungod sini magatubo ang mga hubag sa lawas sang mga tawo kag sang mga sapat.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Kadtui ang hari sang Egypt,
Nagsiling ang hari nga may pag-insulto nga may pag-insulto , “Kabay pa nga updan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo kon palakton ko kamo kag ang inyo pamilya! Maathag nga malain ang inyo tuyo kay malagyo kamo kay malagyo kamo .
Indi ako magsugot! Ang mga lalaki lang ang maglakat para magsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo , kon amo gid man ina ang inyo gusto.” Ginpahalin dayon si Moises kag si Aaron sa atubangan sang hari.
Nagsiling dayon ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Itudlo ang imo baston
Gani gintudlo ni Moises ang iya baston sa duta sang Egypt, kag nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang hangin nga halin sa east sa bilog nga adlaw kag gab-i. Pagkaaga nagdala ang hangin sang mga apan
nga puwerte kadamo, kag naghugpa ini sa bilog nga Egypt. Wala pa gid sing pareho sadto nga pagsalakay sang apan halin sang una kag bisan sang ulihi.
Nagtabon sila sa bilog nga duta sang Egypt sang Egypt hasta nga daw nag-itom ang duta. Ginpangaon nila ang nabilin nga mga tanom nga wala mapierdi sang ulan nga yelo, pati ang tanan nga bunga sang kahoy. Wala gid sing may nabilin nga tanom sa bilog nga Egypt.
Dali-dali nga ginpatawag sang hari si Moises kag si Aaron, kag ginsilingan, “Nakasala ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag sa inyo.
Gani patawara ninyo ako liwat, kag magpangamuyo kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga kuhaon niya sa akon ining mga apan nga mga apan nga makapatay sa mga tanom sa mga tanom .”
Ginbayaan dayon ni Moises ang hari kag nagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagpadala sang mabaskog nga hangin nga halin sa west, kag ginpalid sini ang mga apan sa Mapula nga Dagat. Wala na gid sing apan nga nabilin sa bilog nga Egypt.
kag para masugid ninyo sa inyo mga anak kag mga apo kon paano ko ginsilutan ang mga Egyptohanon kag kon paano ako naghimo sang mga milagro sa ila. Sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pero ginpatig-a gihapon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag wala niya pagpalakta ang mga Israelinhon.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Ibayaw ang imo kamot sa langit para tabunan sang puwerte nga kadulom ang duta sang Egypt.”
Gani ginbayaw ni Moises ang iya kamot sa langit, kag nagdulom gid sa bilog nga duta sang Egypt sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Wala sing may nagguwa nga mga Egyptohanon sa ila balay sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw kay indi sila makakita. Pero ang mga Israelinhon ya may kasanag sa ila lugar nga ginaestaran.
Ginpatawag dayon sang hari si Moises kag ginsilingan, “Sige, magsimba na kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dal-a pati ang inyo mga pamilya, pero ibilin lang ang inyo mga kasapatan.”
Pero nagsabat si Moises, “Kinahanglan nga dal-on namon ang amon mga kasapatan para makahalad kami sang mga halad, pati na sang mga halad nga ginasunog para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Dal-on gid namon ang amon mga kasapatan; wala gid sing may mabilin bisan isa sa ila, kay wala kami kahibalo kon ano nga sapat ang ipahalad sa amon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios. Mahibaluan lang namon ini kon didto na kami.”
Pero ginpatig-a gihapon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag wala niya sila pagpalakta.
Nagsiling ang hari kay Moises, “Halin ka sa akon atubangan! Indi ka na magpakita sa akon liwat, kay kon makit-an ko pa gani ikaw, ipapatay ko ikaw.”
Nagsabat si Moises, “Kon amo ina ang gusto mo, indi na ako magpakita sa imo liwat.”
Gani nagkadto si Moises kag si Aaron sa hari kag nagsiling sa iya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang mga Hebreo, ‘Hasta san-o ka pa bala nga indi magpaubos sa akon? Palakta ang akon katawhan para makasimba sila sa akon.
Kon indi mo gani sila pagpalakton, padal-an ko buwas sang mga apan ang imo nasyon.
Tungod sa ila kadamo, indi na makita ang duta. Pagakaunon nila ang nabilin nga mga tanom nga wala mapierdi sang ulan nga yelo, pati ang tanan ninyo nga kahoy.
Mapuno sang mga apan ang imo palasyo kag ang mga balay sang imo mga opisyal kag mga katawhan. Wala gid sing may nakita nga pareho sini sa duta sang Egypt halin sang pag-abot diri sang inyo mga katigulangan hasta subong.’ ” Dayon nagtalikod sila ni Moises kag naglakat.
Nagsiling ang mga opisyal sang hari sa iya, “Hasta san-o mo pa bala pabay-an ini nga kalamidad nga kalamidad
Gani ginpabalik liwat si Moises kag si Aaron sa hari. Nagsiling ang hari sa ila, “Sige, makalakat na kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Pero sugiri ninyo ako kon sin-o ang inyo updon sa paglakat.”
Nagsabat si Moises, “Malakat kami tanan, bata kag tigulang. Dal-on namon ang amon mga kabataan kag mga kasapatan, kay tanan kami magasaulog sang piesta para sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nakasiling sadto ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Padal-an ko sang isa pa ka kahalitan ang hari kag ang Egypt. Pagkatapos sina, palakton na niya kamo. Tabugon pa gani niya kamo tungod nga gusto na gid niya nga maghalin kamo.
Ini nga mga milagro ginhimo ni Moises kag ni Aaron sa atubangan sang hari, pero ginpatig-a sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tagipusuon sang hari, kag wala pagtuguti sang hari nga maghalin ang mga Israelinhon sa iya nasyon.
Silinga ang mga Israelinhon, lalaki kag babayi, nga magpangayo sila sa ila mga kasilingan nga mga Egyptohanon nga mga Egyptohanon sang mga alahas nga pilak kag bulawan.”
(Ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magmaayo ang mga Egyptohanon sa mga Israelinhon. Kag gintahod gid si Moises sang mga opisyal sang hari kag sang mga pumuluyo sang Egypt.)
Gani nagsiling si Moises sa hari, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Magalabay ako sa Egypt sa mga tungang gab-i,
kag magakalamatay ang mga kamagulangan nga lalaki sa Egypt, halin sa kamagulangan sang hari, nga amo ang magabulos sa trono, pakadto sa kamagulangan sang pinakakubos nga ulipon nga babayi. Pati ang tanan nga kamagulangan sang mga kasapatan magakalamatay man.
Mabatian ang puwerte nga paghinibi sa bilog nga Egypt nga wala pa gid matabo halin sang una, kag wala na sing may matabo pa nga pareho sini.
Pero sa mga Israelinhon bisan taghol sang ido indi mabatian.’ Sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan ninyo nga lain ang pagtratar sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon sang sa mga Egyptohanon.
Kag ang tanan mo nga opisyal magapalapit sa akon nga nagasaludo kag magasiling, ‘Lakat ka na upod sa mga tawo nga nagasunod sa imo!’ Pagkatapos sina, malakat ako.” Dayon naghalin si Moises sa atubangan sang hari nga puwerte ang iya kaakig.
Nagsiling sadto ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Indi magpamati ang hari sa imo para madamo pa nga milagro ang himuon ko sa Egypt.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron didto sa Egypt,
Ubuson ninyo ini kaon, kag kon may mabilin gid man pagkaaga, sunuga ninyo.
Sa tion nga kaunon ninyo ini, preparado na kamo sa paglakat. Isuksok ninyo ang inyo mga sandalyas kag uyati ang inyo baston, kag magdali-dali kaon. Amo ina ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel nga saulugon ninyo sa pagpadungog sa akon.
“Sa sina gid nga gab-i magalabay ako sa Egypt kag pamatyon ko ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga mga lalaki sang mga Egyptohanon sang mga Egyptohanon , tawo man ukon sapat. Silutan ko ang tanan nga dios sang Egypt. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang dugo nga ginlamhit ninyo sa hamba sang inyo mga puwertahan nga ginlamhit ninyo sa hamba sang inyo mga puwertahan amo ang mangin tanda nga mahibaluan ko kon diin ang mga balay nga inyo ginaestaran. Kon makita ko ang dugo, labayan ko lang ang inyo balay, kag indi kamo mahalitan kon silutan ko na ang Egypt.
“Dapat dumdumon ninyo ina nga adlaw hasta san-o. Sauluga ninyo ina bilang piesta sa pagpadungog sa akon. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ninyo hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw magkaon kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok. Sa nahauna mismo nga adlaw, kuhaa ninyo ang tanan nga inugpahabok sa inyo mga balay, kay ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok halin sa una nga adlaw hasta sa ikapito nga adlaw, indi pagkabigon nga sakop sang Israel.
Sa nahauna nga adlaw kag sa ikapito nga adlaw, magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa akon. Indi kamo mag-obra sa sina nga mga adlaw, luwas lang sa pagpreparar sang pagkaon para inyo kaunon. Amo lang ina ang inyo himuon.
“Sauluga ninyo ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok, kay magapadumdom ini sa inyo sang adlaw nga ginpaguwa ko ang inyo bilog nga puwersa sa Egypt. Sauluga ninyo ini hasta san-o bilang pagsulundan nga dapat ninyo tumanon hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Magsugod kamo sa pagsaulog sini halin sa sirom sang ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan hasta sa sirom sang ika-21 nga adlaw, kag kinahanglan nga magkaon kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok.
Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, dapat wala sing inugpahabok nga makita sa inyo mga balay. Ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok indi pagkabigon nga sakop sang komunidad sang Israel, tumandok man siya ukon pangayaw.
“Sugod subong, ini nga bulan amo ang una nga bulan sang tuig para sa inyo.
Huo, indi gid kamo magkaon sang bisan ano nga may inugpahabok sa tion sinang piesta sa tion sinang piesta , bisan diin man kamo nagaestar.”
Dayon ginpatawag ni Moises ang tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel kag ginsilingan, “Silinga ang tanan ninyo nga pamilya, nga magkuha sila sang karnero ukon kanding kag ihawon nila sa pagsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Patuluon ninyo ang dugo sini sa yahong. Dayon magkuha kamo sang sanga sang isopo kag itum-oy ini sa dugo kag ipalhit sa ibabaw kag sa kilid sang hamba sang inyo inyo mga puwertahan. Kag wala sing may magguwa sa inyo balay hasta mag-aga.
Kay magalabay ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Egypt sa pagpamatay sa mga kamagulangan nga mga lalaki sang mga kamagulangan nga mga lalaki sang mga Egyptohanon. Pero kon makita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang dugo sa ibabaw kag kilid sang hamba sang inyo inyo mga puwertahan, malabay lang siya sa inyo mga balay kag indi niya pagtugutan ang Manuglaglag sa pagsulod sa inyo mga balay sa pagpamatay sa inyo mga kamagulangan nga lalaki sa inyo mga kamagulangan nga lalaki .
Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ninyo kag sang inyo mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
Padayuna ninyo ang paghimo sini nga seremonya kon magsulod na kamo sa duta nga ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihatag sa inyo.
Kag kon magpamangkot gani ang inyo mga kabataan kon ano ang buot silingon sini nga seremonya,
Pagkatapos hambal ni Moises, Pagkatapos hambal ni Moises, nagluhod ang mga Israelinhon kag nagsimba sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag ginhimo nila ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron.
Sang mga tungang gab-i, ginpamatay sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sa Egypt, halin sa kamagulangan sang hari, nga amo ang magabulos sa trono, hasta sa kamagulangan sang mga priso nga ara sa prisohan. Kag ginpamatay man niya ang tanan nga kamagulangan sang mga kasapatan.
Ipahibalo ninyo sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel nga sa ikanapulo nga adlaw sang sini nga bulan, ang kada pamilya magpreparar sang isa ka karnero ukon kanding.
Sadto nga gab-i nakabugtaw ang hari kag ang tanan niya nga opisyal kag ang tanan nga Egyptohanon. Kag nabatian ang puwerte nga paghinibi sa Egypt, kay wala gid sing balay nga wala sing patay.
Sadto gid mismo nga gab-i, ginpatawag sang hari si Moises kag si Aaron kag ginsilingan, “Sige, lakat na kamo! Bayai na ninyo ang akon nasyon. Lakat na kamo kag magsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa inyo ginpangabay.
Dal-a ninyo ang inyo mga kasapatan, suno man sa inyo ginpangabay, kag maglakat na kamo. Pero pangabaya man ninyo ang inyo Dios nga kaluoyan ako!”
Ginpadali sang mga Egyptohanon ang mga Israelinhon sa paghalin sa ila nasyon, kay siling nila, “ Kon indi kamo maghalin, Kon indi kamo maghalin, magakalamatay kami tanan!”
Gani gindala sang mga Israelinhon ang ila mga linamas nga harina nga wala sing inugpahabok nga nasulod sa suludlan. Ginputos nila ini sa ila mga bayo kag ginpas-an.
Ginhimo sang mga Israelinhon ang ginsiling sa ila ni Moises nga mangayo sa mga Egyptohanon sang mga alahas nga pilak kag bulawan, kag mga bayo.
Ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magmaayo ang mga Egyptohanon sa mga Israelinhon, gani ginhatag sang mga Egyptohanon ang ila ginpangayo. Sa sini nga paagi, ginkuhaan nila sang mga pagkabutang ang mga Egyptohanon.
Nagpanglakaton ang mga Israelinhon halin sa Rameses pakadto sa Sucot. Mga 600,000 tanan ka lalaki, wala labot sang mga babayi kag mga kabataan.
Madamo man nga mga indi Israelinhon ang nag-upod sa ila, kag madamo man nga mga kasapatan ang ila gindala ang ila gindala .
Kon magpundo sila para magkaon, Kon magpundo sila para magkaon, nagaluto sila sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok halin sa linamas nga harina nga ila gindala halin sa Egypt. Wala ini ginbutangan sang inugpahabok tungod kay ginpadali sila sang mga Egyptohanon sa paghalin kag wala na sila sing tion sa pagpreparar sang ila pagkaon.
Kon ang isa ka pamilya gamay lang nga indi makaubos sang isa ka karnero, mag-ambitanay sila sang ila kasilingan. Partidahon nila ini suno sa ila kadamuon kag suno sa makaon sang kada tawo.
Ang kalawigon sang pag-estar sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt mga 430 ka tuig.
Sa katapusan mismo nga adlaw sang 430 ka tuig, naghalin ang bilog nga puwersa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Egypt.
Sang sina nga gab-i nga naghalin ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt, daw sa nagpulaw ang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagbantay sa ila. Gani sa amo man nga gab-i kada tuig, magapulaw ang mga Israelinhon sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dapat himuon nila ini hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
“Ang mga pangayaw indi dapat magkaon sang kalan-on nga ginpreparar sa sini nga piesta.
Makakaon ang tanan nga ulipon nga ginbakal kon natuli sila,
pero indi makakaon ang mga sinuhulan nga trabahador kag ang mga pangayaw.
Dapat kaunon ini sa sulod sang balay sa diin ginpreparar ini; indi gid pagdal-on ang karne sa guwa sang balay, kag indi gid pagbalion ang tul-an sini.
Dapat saulugon ini sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel.
“Kon ang pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo gusto magsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo , dapat tulion anay ang tanan nga lalaki sa iya panimalay. Dayon makaupod siya sa pagsaulog bilang isa ka tumandok nga Israelinhon nga Israelinhon . Pero indi gid puwede makaupod ang tawo nga wala matuli.
Ini nga pagsulundan para sa mga tumandok nga Israelinhon nga Israelinhon kag sa mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo.”
Kinahanglan ang karnero ukon kanding nga pilion ninyo lalaki nga isa pa lang ka tuig kag wala sing deperensya.
Ginhimo sang tanan nga Israelinhon ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron.
Kag sadto gid nga adlaw ginpaguwa sang Ginoo Ginoo ang bilog nga puwersa sang Israel sa Egypt.
Atipanon ninyo ini hasta sa sirom sang ika-14 nga adlaw sang sini nga bulan nga amo ang tion nga ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel mag-ihaw sang sini nga mga sapat.
Dayon magkuha kamo sang dugo sini kag lamhitan ninyo ang ibabaw kag kilid sang hamba
Sa sina nga gab-i, ang kaunon ninyo amo ang litson nga karnero, mapait nga mga tanom, kag tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok.
Indi ninyo pagkaunon ang karne nga hilaw ukon linaga, kundi litsunon ninyo ini nga bilog upod ang ulo, tiil kag kasudlan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
Gani sauluga ninyo ini nga piesta sa natalana nga tion kada tuig.
“Kon dal-on na gani kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa duta sang mga Canaanhon nga iya ginsumpa nga ihatag sa inyo mga katigulangan kag sa inyo,
idedikar ninyo sa Ginoo Ginoo ang kamagulangan nga mga lalaki, tawo man ukon sapat, kay sila iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Puwede magawad sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo ang kamagulangan sang inyo mga donkey paagi sa pagbaylo sini sang karnero. Pero kon indi ninyo ini paggawaron, kinahanglan nga patyon kinahanglan nga patyon ang donkey paagi sa pagbali sang iya liog. Dapat man ninyo magawad ang inyo kamagulangan nga mga anak nga lalaki.
Kon sa ulihi magpamangkot ang inyo mga anak kon ngaa ginahimo ninyo ini, silinga sila nga, ‘Paagi sa gahom sang Ginoo Ginoo ginpaguwa niya kami sa Egypt nga sa diin kami gin-ulipon.
Sang wala pa kami pagtuguti sang hari nga maglakat, ginpamatay sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sa Egypt, tawo man ukon sapat. Amo ina kon ngaa ginahalad namon sa Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang amon mga kasapatan kag ginatubos namon ang amon kamagulangan nga mga anak nga lalaki.’
Ini nga seremonya daw pareho sa isa ka marka sa inyo mga kamot ukon sa inyo mga agtang nga magapadumdom sa inyo nga ginpaguwa kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Egypt paagi sa iya gahom.”
Sang ginpalakat sang hari ang mga Israelinhon, wala sila pagtuytuyi sang Dios sa dalan nga pakadto sa duta sang mga Filistinhon bisan amo ato ang laktod nga dalan. Kay nagsiling ang Dios, “Kon may inaway nga atubangon ang mga Israelinhon, basi magbaylo ang ila hunahuna kag magbalik sila sa Egypt.”
Gani ginpalibot sila sang Dios sa kamingawan pakadto sa Mapula nga Dagat. Armado ang mga Israelinhon para sa inaway paghalin nila sa Egypt.
Gindala ni Moises ang mga tul-an ni Jose, suno sa ginpasumpa anay ni Jose nga himuon sang mga Israelinhon. Nagsiling sadto si Jose, “Sigurado nga hilwayon kamo sang Dios. Kon matabo na nga maghalin na kamo sa sini nga lugar, dal-on ninyo ang akon mga tul-an.”
“Idedikar sa akon ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang mga Israelinhon kag ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga sapat. Akon sila.”
Paghalin nila sa Sucot, nagkampo sila sa Etam, sa border sang kamingawan.
Kon adlaw, ginatuytuyan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa panganod nga daw haligi, kag kon gab-i ginatuytuyan sila paagi sa kalayo nga daw haligi nga nagahatag sa ila sang kasanag, para makapanglakaton sila, adlaw man ukon gab-i.
Wala gid nagahalin sa unahan sang mga tawo kon adlaw ang panganod nga daw haligi, kag kon gab-i, ang kalayo nga daw haligi.
Dayon nagsiling si Moises sa mga tawo, “Dumduma ninyo ini nga adlaw, nga amo ang adlaw nga ginpaguwa kamo sa Egypt halin sa pagkaulipon. Kay ginpaguwa kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya gahom. Indi kamo magkaon sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok.
Dumduma ninyo Dumduma ninyo ini nga adlaw sang bulan sang Aviv
Dapat saulugon ninyo ini kon dal-on na kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa duta sang mga Canaanhon, Hithanon, Amornon, Hivhanon, kag mga Jebusnon. Amo ini ang duta nga ginsumpa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo mga katigulangan nga ihatag sa inyo. Ini nga duta maayo kag mapatubason.
Sa tion sang inyo pagsaulog, Sa tion sang inyo pagsaulog, magkaon kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, kag sa ikapito nga adlaw maghiwat kamo sang piesta para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi gid kamo magkaon sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok sa sulod sinang pito ka adlaw, kag kinahanglan nga wala gid sing inugpahabok nga makita sa inyo ukon sa bisan diin sa inyo lugar.
Sa tion sang inyo pagsaulog, ipaintiendi ninyo sa inyo mga anak nga ginahimo ninyo ini sa pagdumdom sang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang pagguwa ninyo sa Egypt.
Ini nga piesta daw pareho sa isa ka marka sa inyo mga kamot ukon sa inyo mga agtang nga magapadumdom sa inyo nga dapat ninyo isugid ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay ginpaguwa niya kamo sa Egypt paagi sa iya gahom.
Sang nagapadulong ang hari kag ang iya mga soldado, nakita sila sang mga Israelinhon. Gani hinadlukan gid ang mga Israelinhon kag nagpangayo sila sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling sila kay Moises, “Ngaa diri mo pa kami gindala sa kamingawan para mapatay? Wala bala sing lulubngan didto sa Egypt? Ngaa ginpaguwa mo pa kami sa Egypt?
Indi bala nagsiling kami sa imo didto sa Egypt nga pabay-an mo na lang kami nga magpaulipon sa mga Egyptohanon? Mas maayo pa para sa amon nga magpaulipon sa mga Egyptohanon sang sa mapatay diri sa kamingawan!”
Nagsabat si Moises sa mga tawo, “Indi kamo magkahadlok. Magpakabakod kamo kag makita ninyo ang pagluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo subong nga adlaw. Inang mga Egyptohanon nga nakita ninyo subong indi na gid ninyo makita liwat.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo magapakig-away para sa inyo. Indi na kinahanglan nga magpakig-away pa kamo.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Ngaa sagi ka pa panawag sa akon? Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga magpadayon sila sa paglakat.
Dayon itudlo ang imo baston sa dagat para matunga ang tubig kag makatabok ang mga Israelinhon sa mamala nga duta.
Patig-ahon ko ang tagipusuon sang mga Egyptohanon para lagson nila kamo. Pero laglagon ko ang hari kag ang iya mga soldado, mga manugkabayo, kag mga karwahe. Sa sini nga paagi mapadunggan ako.
Kag kon malaglag ko na sila, mahibaluan sang mga Egyptohanon nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Dayon ang anghel sang Dios nga nagauna sa katawhan sang Israel nagsaylo sa ulihi nila, kag amo man ang panganod nga daw haligi.
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga magbalik sila malapit sa Pi Hahirot, sa tunga-tunga sang Migdol kag sang Mapula nga Dagat, kag magkampo sila didto sa higad sang baybay, sa atubangan sang Baal Zefon.
Nagpundo ini sa tunga sang mga Israelinhon kag sang mga Egyptohanon. Sa bilog nga gab-i, ang panganod naghatag sang kasanag sa mga Israelinhon kag naghatag sang kadulom sa mga Egyptohanon. Gani nagligad ang gab-i nga wala nakapalapit ang mga Egyptohanon sa mga Israelinhon.
Dayon gin-untay ni Moises ang iya kamot sa dagat, kag napihak ang dagat paagi sa mabaskog nga hangin nga ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa east. Bilog nga gab-i ang huyop sang hangin hasta nga nagmala ang duta sa tunga sang dagat.
Dayon nagtabok ang mga Israelinhon nga nagalakat sa mamala nga duta, nga ang tubig daw sa pader sa pihak kag pihak.
Ginlagas sila sang mga Egyptohanon. Ang tanan nga kabayo sang hari, mga karwahe, kag mga manugkabayo naglagas sa ila hasta sa tunga sang dagat.
Pero sang kaagahon pa, gintulok sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga soldado sang Egypt halin sa panganod nga daw haligi kag sa kalayo nga daw haligi, kag ginpasala-sala niya sila.
Sang nakatabok na ang mga Israelinhon, Sang nakatabok na ang mga Israelinhon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Iuntay ang imo kamot sa dagat para magbalik ang tubig kag matabunan ang mga Egyptohanon kag ang ila mga karwahe kag mga manugkabayo.”
Gani gin-untay ni Moises ang iya kamot sa dagat, kag sang nagabutlak na ang adlaw, nagbalik ang tubig sa iya lugar. Nagtinguha ang mga Egyptohanon sa pagpalagyo pero ginpaanod sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa dagat.
Gintabunan sang tubig ang tanan nga soldado sang hari sang Egypt nga nagalagas sa mga Israelinhon pati na ang ila mga manugkabayo kag mga karwahe. Wala gid sing isa sa ila nga nakaluwas.
Pero ang mga Israelinhon ya nag-agi sa mamala nga duta sa tunga sang dagat, nga ang tubig daw sa pader sa pihak kag pihak.
Magahunahuna ang hari nga nagatalang-talang kamo kag indi na makaguwa sa kamingawan.
Sa sina nga adlaw, ginluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon sa kamot sang mga Egyptohanon. Kag nakita sang mga Israelinhon ang mga bangkay sang mga Egyptohanon nga nagahamyang sa baybayon.
Nakita sang mga Israelinhon ang puwerte nga gahom sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya gin-gamit kontra sa mga Egyptohanon, kag tungod sini nagtahod kag nagsalig sila sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sa iya alagad nga si Moises.
Kag patig-ahon ko ang iya tagipusuon kag lagson niya kamo. Pero laglagon ko siya kag ang iya mga soldado. Sa sini nga paagi mapadunggan ako, kag mahibaluan sang mga Egyptohanon nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .” Gani ginhimo ini sang mga Israelinhon.
Sang mabalitaan sang hari sang Egypt nga nagpalagyo ang mga Israelinhon, nagbaylo ang iya hunahuna kag sang iya mga opisyal parte sa paghalin sang paghalin sang mga Israelinhon. Nagsiling sila, “Ano bala ang aton ginhimo? Ngaa ginpalakat ta ang mga Israelinhon? Karon wala na kita sang mga ulipon.”
Gani ginpapreparar sang hari ang iya karwahe kag ang iya mga soldado.
Gindala niya ang 600 sa pinakamaayo nga karwahe sang Egypt kag ang iban pa nga mga karwahe. May opisyal nga nagadumala sa kada karwahe.
Ginpatig-a sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tagipusuon sang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt, gani ginlagas niya ang mga Israelinhon nga nagalakat nga may kaisog.
Ang mga Egyptohanon nga nag-upod sa paglagas amo ang mga soldado sang hari kaupod sang iya mga manugkabayo nga nagasakay sa mga kabayo kag mga karwahe. Naabtan nila ang mga Israelinhon sa ila ginakampuhan sa higad sang Mapula nga Mapula nga Dagat malapit sa Pi Hahirot, sa atubangan sang Baal Zefon.
kag ang mga mga nagasakay sini.
Naglugdang sila sa kadadalman pareho sa tingga.
Ikaw lang ang Dios nga nagahimo sang makatilingala nga mga butang!
ginlamon sang duta ang amon mga kaaway.
Sa imo nga kusog, tuytuyan mo sila sa imo balaan nga puluy-an.
Makulbaan gid ang mga Filistinhon.
kag ang mga pangulo
hasta makaagi ang imo katawhan nga imo ginluwas,
ang templo nga ikaw mismo ang naghimo.
Magahari ka, O Ginoo Ginoo , hasta san-o.”
Gintabunan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang tubig ang mga kabayo sang hari sang Egypt kag ang iya mga karwahe kag mga manugkabayo pagkatapos tabok sang mga Israelinhon sa mamala nga duta sa tunga sang dagat.
kag padunggan ko siya.
Dayon si Miriam nga propeta kag utod ni Aaron nagkuha sang tamborin kag ginpangunahan niya ang mga babayi sa pagtukar sang tamborin kag pagsinaot.
kag ang mga mga nagasakay sini.”
Halin sa Mapula nga Dagat, gindala ni Moises ang mga Israelinhon sa kamingawan sang Shur. Sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw nagpanglakaton sila sa kamingawan kag wala sila sing may nakita nga tubig.
Sang nakaabot sila sa Mara, nakakita sila sang tubig, nakakita sila sang tubig, pero indi sila makainom tungod kay mapait ang tubig. (Amo ina nga gin-ngalanan ini nga lugar nga Mara.
Tungod sini, nagreklamo ang mga Israelinhon kay Moises, “Ano na lang ang imnon ta?”
Didto naghatag ang Ginoo Ginoo sang sini nga pagsulundan kag sugo sa pagtilaw sang ila katutom sa iya:
“Kon magsunod kamo sing maayo sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag maghimo sing maayo sa akon panulok kag magtuman sang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, indi ko kamo pagpadal-an sang mga balatian pareho sa ginpadala ko sa mga Egyptohanon. Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo manug-ayo.”
Nakaabot sila sa Elim, nga sa diin may 12 ka tuburan kag may 70 ka kahoy nga palma, kag nagkampo sila didto malapit sa tubig.
kag isa siya ka mangangaway.
ang mga pinakamaayo nga mga opisyal sang hari.
nagkalalugdang sila sa kadadalman pareho sa bato.
paagi sini gindugmok mo ang mga kaaway.
nga amo ang naglaglag sa ila nga daw sa ginsunog sila nga dagami.
daw sa nagtig-a ang madalom nga dagat.
kag laglagon ko sila.’
Halin sa Elim, nagpadayon sa pagpanglakaton ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel hasta nga nakaabot sila sa kamingawan sang Sin, nga ara sa tunga-tunga sang Elim kag Sinai. Nakaabot sila didto sang ika-15 nga adlaw sang ikaduha nga bulan halin sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt.
Samtang nagahambal si Aaron sa bilog nga komunidad, nagtulok sila sa kamingawan kag sa hinali lang nakita nila ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa panganod.
“Nabatian ko ang mga reklamo sang mga Israelinhon. Silinga sila nga kada gab-i makakaon sila sang karne kag kada aga makapagusto sila sang tinapay. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
Sang magsirom na, nag-abot ang madamo gid nga mga madamo gid nga mga pitaw nga halos nagtabon sa ila kampo. Pagkaaga, ang duta sa ila kampo basa sang tun-og.
Sang nagmala na ang tun-og, may nakita sila didto sa kamingawan nga manipis nga mga butang nga puwerte kaputi.
Wala sila kahibalo kon ano ato, gani nagpinamangkutanay sila, “Ano ayhan ina?” Nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Amo ina ang tinapay nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo para inyo kaunon.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ang kada isa sa inyo magtipon sini suno sa iya kinahanglanon: isa ka gantang kada tawo.”
Gani nagpanguha ang mga Israelinhon sang sini nga pagkaon; ang iban madamo ang natipon kag ang iban diutay lang.
Pero sang ginsukob nila ini, ang kada isa may isa ka gantang. Ang nagtipon sang madamo wala nagsobra, kag ang nagtipon sang diutay wala man makulangi. Tama-tama lang ang nakuha sang kada isa.
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Wala sing may magtigana sini para sa sunod nga adlaw.”
Didto sa kamingawan nagreklamo ang bilog nga komunidad kay Moises kag kay Aaron.
Pero ang iban sa ila wala nagpati kay Moises, nagtigana sila para sa sunod nga adlaw. Pero nauluran ini kag nanimaho. Gani nangakig si Moises sa ila.
Kada aga nagapanguha ang kada isa suno sa iya kinahanglanon. Kag kon mag-init na gani, nagakatunaw ang pagkaon nga wala nila makuha.
Sa ikaanom nga adlaw, ginadoble nila pagpanguha—mga duha ka gantang kada tawo. Gani nagkadto ang mga pangulo sang komunidad sang Israel sang Israel kay Moises kag nagpamangkot kon ngaa ginadoble kon ngaa ginadoble .
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga magpahuway kamo buwas kay Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, isa ka balaan nga adlaw para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gani lutua ninyo ang gusto ninyo nga lutuon, kag lagaa ang gusto ninyo nga lagaon. Ang mabilin itigana ninyo para sa buwas.”
Gani gintigana nila ang nabilin para sa masunod nga adlaw suno sa ginsugo sa ila ni Moises. Kag pagkasunod nga adlaw pagkasunod nga adlaw wala ini nauluran ukon nanimaho.
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila sa ila , “Kauna ninyo ina subong, kay Adlaw nga Inugpahuway subong para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Wala kamo sing may makita sina sa duta subong nga adlaw.
Makapanguha kamo sang sini nga pagkaon sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw, pero sa ikapito nga adlaw magpahuway kamo. Sa sina nga adlaw wala kamo sing may makuha nga pagkaon.”
Pero may ara gihapon nga nagginuwa sa ikapito nga adlaw para manguha sang sadto nga pagkaon, pero wala sila sing may nakita.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Hasta san-o pa bala ini nga katawhan magsupak sa akon mga sugo kag mga pagpanudlo?
Dumdumon ninyo nga ginhatagan ko kamo sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, amo ina nga kada ikaanom nga adlaw ginadoble ko ang inyo pagkaon para sa duha ka adlaw. Dapat ang kada isa magpabilin sa iya balay sa ikapito nga adlaw. Wala sing may magguwa sa pagpanguha sang pagkaon sa pagpanguha sang pagkaon .”
Nagsiling sila, “Maayo pa nga ginpamatay na lang kami sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Egypt. Didto bisan paano makakaon kami sang karne kag makapagusto sang bisan ano nga pagkaon. Pero karon gindala ninyo kami diri sa kamingawan para pagutuman hasta magkalamatay kami.”
Gani nagpahuway ang mga tawo sa ikapito nga adlaw.
Gintawag sang mga Israelinhon ang pagkaon nga manna. Daw sa mga liso ini nga magagmay kag maputi, kag matam-is pareho sa manipis nga tinapay nga may honey.
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila sa ila , “Amo ini ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Magtago kamo sang isa ka gantang nga manna para sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon, para makita nila ang pagkaon nga ginhatag ko sa inyo sa kamingawan sang ginpaguwa ko kamo sa Egypt.’ ”
Nagsiling si Moises kay Aaron, “Magkuha ka sang tibod kag sudli ini sang isa ka gantang nga manna. Dayon ibutang ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo para sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.”
Gintuman ini ni Aaron suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises. Ginbutang ni Aaron ang manna sa Kahon sang Kahon sang Kasuguan
Nagkaon ang mga Israelinhon sang manna sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig, hasta nakaabot sila sa duta nga ila estaran nga amo ang Canaan.
( Kada adlaw nagtipon ang kada isa sa ila sang Kada adlaw nagtipon ang kada isa sa ila sang isa ka omer nga manna nga manna , nga bali isa ka gantang.)
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Pamati! Paulanon ko sang tinapay halin sa langit para sa inyo. Kada adlaw magpanguha ang mga Israelinhon sang tinapay para sa sina lang nga adlaw. Sa sini nga paagi testingan ko sila kon bala tumanon nila ukon indi ang akon mga sugo.
Silinga sila nga doblehon nila ang pagtipon sang tinapay sa ikaanom nga adlaw sang kada semana.”
Gani nagsiling si Moises kag si Aaron sa tanan nga Israelinhon, “Karon sa gab-i, mareyalisar ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt,
kag sa aga makita ninyo ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kay nabatian niya ang inyo mga reklamo. Sin-o gid bala kami nga magreklamo kamo sa amon? Ang matuod, ang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo ginareklamuhan.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Moises, “Hatagan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang karne nga inyo kaunon kon gab-i kag tinapay nga makapagusto kamo kaon kon aga, kay nabatian niya ang inyo mga reklamo sa iya. Mareyalisar ninyo dayon nga Mareyalisar ninyo dayon nga wala kamo nagareklamo sa amon kundi sa Ginoo Ginoo . Sin-o gid bala kami nga magreklamo kamo sa amon nga magreklamo kamo sa amon ?”
Nagsiling dayon si Moises kay Aaron, “Silinga ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel nga magpalapit sila sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kay nabatian niya ang ila mga reklamo.”
Sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , naghalin ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sa kamingawan sang Sin kag nagpadayon sa pagpanglakaton. Nagsaylo-saylo sila halin sa isa ka lugar pakadto sa isa ka lugar. Sang ulihi nagkampo sila sa Refidim, pero wala sila sing tubig nga mainom didto.
Gani nagpakig-away sila ni Josue sa mga Amaleknon suno sa ginsugo ni Moises samtang sila ni Moises, Aaron, kag Hur nagsaka sa bukid.
Kag samtang ginabayaw ni Moises ang iya kamot, nagadaog ang mga Israelinhon, pero kon paubuson niya gani ang iya kamot, nagadaog ang mga Amaleknon.
Sang ulihi ginkapoy na ang kamot ni Moises. Gani nagkuha si Aaron kag Hur sang bato kag ginpapungkuan ini kay Moises. Dayon ginbayaw ni Aaron ang isa ka kamot ni Moises kag amo man ang ginhimo ni Hur sa isa ka kamot hasta magsalop ang adlaw.
Gani napierdi nila ni Josue ang mga Amaleknon.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Isulat mo ini sa linukot nga sululatan para indi malipatan kag ipahibalo mo ini kay Josue: Dulaon ko gid sing bug-os ang mga Amaleknon.”
Naghimo si Moises sang halaran kag gintawag ini nga, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang akon Bandera sa Pagdaog.”
Nagsiling siya, “Tungod nga gintaya sang mga Amaleknon ang ila mga inumol sa trono sang Ginoo Ginoo , padayon nga magapakig-away ang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa ila hasta san-o.”
Pero nauhaw gid ang mga tawo didto, gani padayon ang ila reklamo kay Moises. Nagsiling sila, “Ngaa bala ginpaguwa mo pa kami sa Egypt? Mapatay man lang gali kami diri sa kauhaw pati ang amon mga kabataan kag kasapatan.”
Gani nagpangayo si Moises sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo , “ O Ginoo , O Ginoo Ginoo , ano bala ang himuon ko sa sini nga mga tawo? Halos batuhon na nila ako!”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Kuhaa ang imo baston nga ginhampak mo sa Suba sang Nilo, kag mag-una ka sa mga tawo. Upda ang iban nga mga manugdumala sang Israel.
Hulaton ko ikaw didto sa may bato sa Horeb.
Gintawag ni Moises ato nga lugar nga Masa
Sang didto pa ang mga Israelinhon sa Refidim, ginsalakay sila sang mga Amaleknon.
Nagsiling si Moises kay Josue, “Magpili ka sa aton mga tawo kag magpakig-away kamo sa mga Amaleknon. Magatindog ako buwas sa ibabaw sang bukid nga nagauyat sang baston nga ginsugo nga ginsugo sang Dios nga akon dal-on nga akon dal-on .”
Si Jetro nga pari sang Midian kag ugangan ni Moises nakabalita sang tanan nga ginhimo sang Dios kay Moises kag sa iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Nabatian man niya kon paano ginpaguwa sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.
Nagsiling si Jetro, “Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagluwas sa inyo sa kamot sang mga Egyptohanon kag sa ila hari.
Karon nahibaluan ko na nga ang Ginoo Ginoo mas gamhanan sang sa tanan nga dios, kay ginluwas niya ang mga Israelinhon sa mga Egyptohanon nga Egyptohanon nga nagdaogdaog sa ila.”
Dayon naghalad si Jetro sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag iban pa nga mga halad sa Dios. Kag samtang ginahimo niya ini, nag-abot si Aaron kag ang tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel. Nag-upod sila kay Jetro sa pagkaon sa presensya sang Dios.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagpungko si Moises bilang hukom sa paghusay sa mga kaso sang mga tawo. Nagalinya ang mga tawo sa iya atubangan halin sa aga hasta sa sirom.
Sang makita ini ni Jetro, nagsiling siya kay Moises, “Ngaa ginahimo mo ini para sa mga tawo? Ngaa ikaw lang ang nagahimo sini? Nagalinya ang mga tawo sa imo atubangan halin sa aga hasta sa sirom.”
Nagsabat si Moises, “Ginahimo ko ini tungod kay nagapalapit ang mga tawo sa akon sa paghibalo sang kabubut-on sang Dios.
Kon may ginabaisan ang mga tawo, ginadala ini sa akon, kag ako ang nagahukom kon sin-o sa ila ang husto. Kag ginatudluan ko sila sang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan sang Dios.”
Nagsiling si Jetro, “Indi husto ang imo pamaagi sa paghimo sini.
Ginapabudlayan mo lang gid ang imo kaugalingon kag ang ini nga mga tawo. Tama ini kabudlay para sa imo; indi mo ini mahimo nga ikaw lang.
Pamati sa akon kay laygayan ko ikaw, kag kabay pa nga mag-upod ang Dios sa imo. Padayuna ang imo ginahimo nga pagpalapit sa Dios para sa mga tawo. Dal-a ang ila mga ginabaisan sa iya.
Padayuna man ang imo nga pagtudlo sa ila sang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan sang Dios sang Dios . Tudlui sila kon paano magkabuhi kag kon ano ang ila himuon.
Pero magpili ka sang mga tawo nga magbulig sa imo sa paghukom nga magbulig sa imo sa paghukom . Dapat may ikasarang sila sa paghukom sa paghukom , nagatahod sa Dios, masaligan, kag wala nagabaton sang lagay. Himua sila nga mga hukom sa grupo sang mga tawo nga tag-isa ka libo, tag-isa ka gatos, tag-singkuwenta kag tag-napulo.
Mag-alagad sila bilang mga hukom sa tanan nga tion. Sila ang magahusay sa simple nga mga kaso, pero ang mabudlay nga mga kaso dal-on nila sa imo. Sa sini nga paagi, magmulumag-an ang imo obra kay makabulig sila sa imo.
Nahibaluan ko nga amo ini ang gusto sang Dios nga himuon mo, kag kon tumanon mo ini indi ka mabudlayan. Kag ini nga mga tawo makapuli nga matawhay.”
Gintuman ni Moises ang ginlaygay sang iya ugangan.
Nagpili siya sa mga Israelinhon sang mga tawo nga may ikasarang sa paghukom sa paghukom , kag ginhimo niya sila nga mga hukom sa grupo sang mga tawo nga tag-isa ka libo, tag-isa ka gatos, tag-singkuwenta, kag tag-napulo.
Nag-alagad sila sa mga tawo bilang mga hukom sa tanan nga tion. Sila ang nagahusay sa simple nga mga kaso, pero ang mabudlay nga mga kaso ginadala nila kay Moises.
Sang ulihi ginpabalik ni Moises ang iya ugangan sa iya nasyon.
Ang ngalan sang ikaduha amo si Eliezer,
Karon, nagkadto si Jetro kaupod ang asawa kag duha ka anak ni Moises didto sa ginakampuhan nila ni Moises sa kamingawan, malapit sa bukid sang Dios.
Nagpahibalo na nga daan si Jetro kay Moises nga maabot siya upod si Zipora kag ang duha niya ka anak.
Gani ginsugata ni Moises ang iya ugangan, kag bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod nagluhod siya kag pagkatapos naghalok sa iya. Nagpangamustahanay sila kag dayon nagsulod sila sa tolda.
Ginsugid ni Moises kay Jetro ang tanan nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa hari sang Egypt kag sa mga Egyptohanon para sa mga Israelinhon. Ginsugid man niya ang tanan nga kabudlayan nga ila naagyan sa ila nga pagpanglakaton kag kon paano sila ginluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nalipay gid si Jetro sa tanan nga kaayo nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon sa iya pagluwas sa ila sa kamot sang mga Egyptohanon.
nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Kadtui ang mga tawo kag silinga sila nga magpakatinlo sila
Siguraduha nga preparado sila sa ikatlo nga adlaw, kay sa sina nga adlaw, ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , magapanaog sa ibabaw sang ibabaw sang Bukid sang Sinai nga makita sang tanan nga tawo.
Butangi sang tanda sa palibot sang bukid sang bukid kon diin lang hasta magtindog ang mga tawo. Silinga sila nga indi gid sila magsaka ukon magpalapit sa tiilan sang bukid. Ang bisan sin-o nga magpalapit sa bukid pagapatyon gid,
tawo man ukon sapat. Pagapatyon gid siya paagi sa pagbato ukon pagpana; indi siya pagtandugon. Makasaka lang ang mga tawo sa bukid kon patunugon na sing malawig ang budyong.”
Nagpanaog si Moises sa bukid kag ginsugo niya ang mga tawo nga magpakatinlo. Kag ginlabhan sang mga tawo ang ila mga bayo.
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Ipreparar ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon para sa ikatlo nga adlaw; indi anay kamo maghulid sa inyo asawa.”
Sang pagkaaga sang ikatlo nga adlaw, nagdinaguob kag nagpinangilat, kag may madamol nga gal-om nga nagtabon sa bukid, kag mabatian ang matunog gid nga huni sang budyong. Nagkurog sa kahadlok ang tanan nga tawo sa kampo.
Dayon gindala ni Moises ang mga tawo sa guwa sang kampo sa pagpakigkita sa Dios, kag nagtindog sila sa tiilan sang bukid.
Nalikupan sang aso ang bilog nga Bukid sang Sinai kay nagpanaog didto ang Ginoo Ginoo sa dagway sang kalayo. Nagtub-ok ang aso pareho sa aso nga naghalin sa hurnohan kag nagtay-og sing mabaskog ang bukid,
kag nagbaskog pa gid ang huni sang budyong. Dayon naghambal si Moises kag nagsabat ang Dios sa iya paagi sa daguob.
Nagpanaog ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ibabaw sang Bukid sang Sinai, kag ginhambalan niya si Moises nga magsaka sa ibabaw sang Bukid. Gani nagsaka si Moises
kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Magbalik ka sa idalom kag paandami ang mga tawo nga indi gid sila maglapaw sa tanda sa palibot sang bukid sa tanda sa palibot sang bukid para tan-awon ako. Kay kon himuon nila ini, madamo sa ila ang mapatay.
Bisan ang mga pari nga nagapalapit permi sa akon presensya kinahanglan nga magpakatinlo sang ila kaugalingon, kay kon indi gani, silutan ko man sila.”
Nagsiling si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi makasaka ang mga tawo sa bukid kay ikaw mismo ang nagpaandam sa amon nga kabigon namon ang bukid nga balaan, kag ginhambalan mo kami nga butangan namon sang tanda sa palibot sang bukid kon diin lang kami hasta magtindog kon diin lang kami hasta magtindog .”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Panaog kag dal-a si Aaron diri. Pero ang mga pari kag ang mga tawo indi dapat magkadto diri sa akon. Kay kon magkadto sila diri silutan ko gid sila.”
Gani nagpanaog si Moises kag ginsilingan ang mga tawo.
Nagsaka si Moises sa bukid para magpakigkita sa Dios. Gintawag siya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa bukid kag ginsilingan, “Amo ini ang imo isiling sa mga Israelinhon nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob:
‘Nakita ninyo mismo kon ano ang ginhimo ko sa mga Egyptohanon, kag kon paano ko kamo gindala diri sa akon, pareho sang pagdala sang agila sa iya mga piso nga ginaprotektaran sang iya mga pakpak.
Kon magtuman kamo sing bug-os sa akon kag magsunod sa akon kasugtanan, pilion ko kamo sa tanan nga nasyon nga mangin akon espesyal nga katawhan. Akon ang bilog nga kalibutan,
pero mangin akon kamo nga pinili nga katawhan, kag mangin isa kamo ka ginharian nga magaalagad sa akon bilang mga pari.’ Amo ini ang ihambal mo sa mga Israelinhon.”
Gani nagpanaog si Moises sa bukid sa bukid kag ginpatawag niya ang mga manugdumala sang mga Israelinhon kag ginsugiran niya sila sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagkomporme ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa ginhambal ni Moises sa ginhambal ni Moises kag nagsiling sila, “Tumanon namon ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo .” Kag ginsugid ni Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo ang sabat sang mga tawo.
Pagkatapos nga masugid ni Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo ang sabat sang mga tawo,
Nagsiling ang Dios:
pero ang ikapito nga adlaw amo ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga inyo painon para sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Indi kamo mag-obra sa sina nga adlaw pati ang inyo mga anak, mga ulipon, mga kasapatan, kag ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa.
Kay sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw ginhimo ko ang kalangitan, ang duta, ang dagat kag ang tanan nga ara sa ila, pero nagpahuway ako sa ikapito nga adlaw. Gani ginbendisyunan ko ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kag ginhimo nga pinasahi nga adlaw para sa akon.
Tahura ang inyo amay kag iloy para magkabuhi kamo sing malawig sa duta nga ginahatag ko sa inyo.
Indi kamo magpatay.
Indi kamo magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki.
Indi kamo magpangawat.
Indi kamo magsaksi sing butig kontra sa inyo isigkatawo.
Indi kamo magkahisa sa balay
Sang mabatian sang mga tawo ang daguob, kag ang tunog sang budyong, kag sang makita nila ang kilat kag ang bukid nga nagaaso, nagkulurog sila sa kahadlok. Nagtindog sila sa malayo
kag nagsiling kay Moises, “Ikaw lang ang maghambal sa amon kay mamati kami, indi lang ang Dios kay basi mapatay kami.”
“Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt nga sa diin kamo gin-ulipon.
Gani nagsiling si Moises sa mga tawo, “Indi kamo magkahadlok, kay nagkadto diri ang Dios sa pagpatilaw sa inyo sang iya gahom para magkahadlok kamo sa iya sa paghimo sang sala.”
Nagtindog gihapon ang mga tawo sa malayo samtang si Moises nagpalapit sa madamol nga gal-om nga sa diin ara ang Dios.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Ihambal ini sa mga Israelinhon: Nakita ninyo nga nagpakighambal ako sa inyo halin sa langit.
Gani indi kamo maghimo sang mga dios-dios nga pilak ukon bulawan para simbahon kaupod sa akon.
“Maghimo kamo sang halaran nga duta para sa akon kag dira ninyo ihalad ang inyo mga karnero, mga kanding, kag mga baka bilang halad nga ginasunog kag halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Himuon ninyo ini sa lugar nga akon ginpili nga pagasimbahon ako, kag didto kadtuan ko kamo kag bendisyunan.
Kon maghimo kamo sang halaran nga bato para sa akon indi ninyo ini pagbasbasan, kay kon gamitan ninyo ini sang pangbasbas, indi na ini takos nga gamiton sa paghalad sa akon.
Kag indi man kamo maghimo sang halaran nga may hagdanan kay basi makita ang inyo kinatawo kon magsaka kamo.”
Indi kamo magsimba sa iban nga dios magluwas sa akon.
Indi kamo maghimo sang mga dios-dios sa dagway sang bisan ano nga ara sa langit, ukon sa duta, ukon sa tubig.
Indi gid ninyo ini pag-alagaron kag simbahon, kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, indi gid gusto nga may ginasimba kamo nga iban. Ginasilutan ko ang mga nakasala sa akon pati ang ila mga kaliwat hasta sa ikatatlo kag ikaapat nga henerasyon nga nagasikway sa akon.
Pero ginapakita ko ang akon kaayo sa madamo gid nga mga henerasyon nga mga henerasyon nga nagahigugma sa akon kag nagatuman sang akon mga sugo.
Indi ninyo paggamita ang ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa wala sing pulos kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , magasilot sa kay bisan sin-o nga maggamit sang akon ngalan sa wala sing pulos.
Tumana ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa akon mga ginapahimo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag himua ninyo ini nga pinasahi nga adlaw para sa akon.
Mag-obra kamo sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw,
Nagsiling ang Ginoo kay Moises, Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan nga ipatuman mo sa mga Israelinhon:
Kon pangasaw-on niya mismo ini nga ulipon, kag pangasaw-on niya mismo ini nga ulipon, kag magpangasawa pa gid siya sang iban nga babayi, kinahanglan padayunon niya ang paghatag sa sini nga ulipon sang pagkaon kag bayo, kag ang paghulid sa iya.
Kon indi niya matuman ining tatlo ka butang, puwede maghalin ina nga babayi nga wala sing balayran.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga magsakit sang tawo kag mapatay niya ini, dapat patyon man siya.
Pero kon wala niya ini ginhungod kag gintugutan ko ini nga matabo, makapalagyo siya sa lugar nga himuon ko nga dalangpan.
Pero kon ginplano niya kag ginhungod ang pagpatay, patya ninyo siya bisan magpalapit pa siya sa akon halaran.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga magsakit
“Ang bisan sin-o nga magkidnap sang tawo dapat patyon, bisan ginbaligya na niya ang iya ginkidnap ukon wala pa.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga magpakamalaot sa iya amay ukon iloy dapat patyon.
“Halimbawa, nag-away ang duha ka tawo, kag ginsumbag sang isa ukon ginlampusan sang bato ang iya kontra kag indi na ini makabangon pero wala mapatay.
Kon sa ulihi makabangon siya kag makalakat-lakat, bisan nagabaston lang, ang tawo nga nagsakit sa iya indi pagsilutan. Pero kinahanglan magbayad ang tawo sa iya, sa iya panahon nga nausik tungod sa iya pagkabalda tungod sa iya pagkabalda , kag kinahanglan atipanon siya sang tawo hasta mag-ayo siya.
“Kon magbakal kamo sang ulipon nga Hebreo, magaalagad siya sa inyo sa sulod sang anom ka tuig. Pero sa ikapito nga tuig, mahilway na siya sa pagkaulipon nga wala siya sing bayaran.
“Kon ginbakol sang isa ka tawo ang iya ulipon, lalaki man ukon babayi, kag napatay ini, dapat silutan siya.
Pero kon wala mapatay ang ulipon kag wala mapatay ang ulipon kag nakabangon ini pagkaligad sang isa ukon duha ka adlaw, ang tawo indi pagsilutan kay siya man ang tag-iya sang ulipon.
“Kon may nagaaway kag naigo ang isa ka babayi nga nagabusong, kag nagbata ini sa indi pa oras,
Pero kon grabe ang natabo sa babayi sa babayi silutan ang responsable suno man sa natabo sa babayi suno man sa natabo sa babayi . Kon napatay ang babayi ang babayi , patyon man siya.
Kon nabulag ang babayi ang babayi , bulagon man siya. Kon nabingaw ang ngipon, bingawon man siya. Kon nabali ang kamot ukon tiil, balion man ang iya iya kamot ukon tiil.
Kon napaso, pasuon man siya. Kon napilas, pilason man siya. Kag kon nabagrasan, bagrasan man siya.
“Kon nasumbag sang amo ang iya ulipon nga lalaki ukon babayi sa mata kag nabulag ini, hilwayon niya siya sa pagkaulipon bilang bayad sa mata nga iya ginbulag.
Kon nabingaw niya ang ngipon sang iya ulipon nga lalaki ukon babayi, hilwayon man niya siya sa pagkaulipon bilang bayad sa ngipon nga iya ginbingaw.
“Kon ang turo nga baka nakasungay sang tawo, lalaki ukon babayi, kag napatay ini, dapat batuhon ang baka, kag indi pagkan-on ang iya unod, pero ang tag-iya sang baka wala sing salabton.
Pero kon ang baka naanad na nga magpanungay sang tawo sang tawo kag ginpaandaman na ang tag-iya parte sini, pero ginpabay-an lang niya ang baka, kag nakapatay ini sang tawo, kinahanglan batuhon ini hasta mapatay kag ang tag-iya patyon man.
Kon sang pagbakal sa iya sang pagbakal sa iya wala pa siya sing asawa kag sang ulihi nagpangasawa siya, siya lang ang mahilway sa ikapito nga tuig sa ikapito nga tuig . Pero kon may asawa na siya sang pagbakal sa iya sang pagbakal sa iya , ang iya asawa mahilway man upod sa iya.
Pero kon pabayaron ang tag-iya para mabuhi siya, kinahanglan nga bayaran niya kon pila ang ipabayad sa iya.
Amo man ini ang pagsulundan kon nakasungay ang baka sang bata, lalaki man ukon babayi.
Kon nakasungay ang baka sang ulipon, lalaki man ukon babayi, kinahanglan nga magbayad ang tag-iya sini sang 30 ka bilog nga pilak sa amo sang ulipon, kag kinahanglan nga batuhon ang baka hasta mapatay.
“Halimbawa, may tawo nga nagkuha sang tabon sang bubon ukon nagkutkot sang bubon kag wala niya ini pagtabuni, kag may nahulog nga baka ukon donkey sa amo nga bubon,
ang tag-iya sang bubon dapat magbayad sa tag-iya sang sapat, kag mangin iya na ang patay nga sapat.
“Kon ang baka sang isa ka tawo nakapatay sang baka sang iya kapareho, ibaligya nila nga duha ang buhi nga baka kag tungaon ang kuwarta. Tungaon man nila ang karne sang napatay nga baka.
Pero kon ang baka nga nakapatay naanad na nga magpanungay kag ginpabay-an lang ini sang tag-iya, dapat magbayad ang tag-iya sini sang isa man ka baka sa baylo sang napatay, kag ining napatay nga baka mangin iya na.
Kon ginpaasawahan siya sang iya amo kag nakabata sila sang iya asawa, mahilway siya, pero ang iya asawa kag mga bata magapabilin sa iya amo.
“Pero kon magsiling ang ulipon nga ginahigugma niya ang iya amo, ang iya asawa kag mga bata, kag indi niya gusto nga mahilway,
dal-on siya sang iya amo sa presensya sang Dios.
“Kon ibaligya sang isa ka tawo ang iya anak nga babayi nga mangin ulipon, indi siya mahilway sa ikapito nga tuig sa ikapito nga tuig pareho sa mga lalaki nga ulipon.
Kon wala malipay sa iya ang iya amo nga nagbakal sa iya, puwede siya nga gawaron sang iya pamilya sang iya pamilya . Pero indi siya puwede nga ibaligya sang iya amo sa mga indi Israelinhon tungod kay ang iya amo, amo ang nagtalikod sa iya.
Kon ipaasawa sang amo ini nga ulipon sa iya anak, kinahanglan nga kabigon niya siya bilang iya anak nga babayi.
“Kon ang isa ka tawo nangawat sang baka ukon karnero, kag gin-ihaw niya ini ukon ginbaligya, dapat magbayad siya. Sa isa ka baka nga iya ginkawat, magbayad siya sang lima ka baka. Kag sa isa ka karnero nga iya ginkawat, magbayad siya sang apat ka karnero.
“Halimbawa, ginpasagod sang isa ka tawo ang iya donkey, baka, karnero, ukon bisan ano nga sapat sa iya tupad-balay, kag napatay ini, ukon napilasan, ukon nadula, nga wala sing may nakakita.
Ang nagsagod dapat magkadto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag magsumpa nga wala siya sing may nahibaluan sa natabo. Dapat ini patihan sang tag-iya, kag indi niya siya pagpabayaron.
Pero kon ginkawat ang sapat, dapat magbayad ang nagsagod sa tag-iya.
Kon ang sapat ginpatay sang mapintas nga sapat, kinahanglan dal-on niya ang nabilin nga parte sang sapat bilang pamatuod, kag indi niya kinahanglan nga bayaran ini.
“Halimbawa, naghulam ang isa ka tawo sang sapat sa iya tupad-balay kag napilas ini ukon napatay, kag wala ang tag-iya pagkatabo sini. Ang naghulam dapat magbayad sini.
Pero kon ara ang tag-iya sang pagkatabo, ang naghulam indi na magbayad. Kon gin-arkilahan ang sapat, ang kuwarta nga ginbayad sa arkila amo na ang ibayad sa napilasan ukon napatay nga sapat.
“Kon gintintar sang isa ka lalaki ang isa ka dalaga nga indi pa kalaslon, kag nagpakighilawas siya sa iya, dapat magbayad ang lalaki sa pamilya sang babayi sa pamilya sang babayi sang balayran sa pagpangasawa, kag dayon pangasaw-on niya ang babayi.
Kon indi gid magsugot ang amay sang babayi nga ipakasal ang iya anak sa ato nga lalaki, magbayad gihapon ang lalaki sang amo nga balayran.
“Patya ninyo ang mga babaylan.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga magpakighilawas sa sapat dapat patyon.
Kon nangawat siya sa gab-i sa gab-i kag nadakpan sa akto, kag ginpatay siya, ang nakapatay sa iya wala sing salabton.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga maghalad sa iban nga dios luwas sa akon dapat laglagon sing bug-os.
“Indi ninyo pagdaog-daugon ang mga pangayaw
“Indi ninyo pagpamintahaan ang mga balo nga babayi kag ang mga ilo.
Kon himuon ninyo ini, kag magpangayo sila sang bulig sa akon, sigurado gid nga buligan ko sila.
Mangakig gid ako sa inyo kag pamatyon ko kamo sa inaway.
“Kon magpahulam kamo sang kuwarta sa bisan kay sin-o sa akon katawhan nga imol, indi ninyo pagpasakai pareho sa ginahimo sang mga manugpahulam sang kuwarta.
Kon kuhaon ninyo ang pangtabon nga panapton sang inyo isigkatawo bilang garantiya nga magbayad siya sa iya utang sa imo nga magbayad siya sa iya utang sa imo , iuli ini sa iya antes magsalop ang adlaw.
Kay amo lang ini ang iya pangtabon sa iya lawas kon magtulog siya kon gab-i. Kon magpangayo siya sang bulig sa akon, buligan ko siya kay maluluy-on ako.
“Indi ninyo pag-insultuhon ang Dios kag indi ninyo pagpakamalauta ang nagadumala sa inyo.
“Idedikar ninyo sa akon ang inyo kamagulangan nga mga lalaki,
“Ang kawatan nga nadakpan dapat magbayad sa iya nga ginkawat. Pero kon wala siya sing ibayad, ibaligya siya nga ulipon kag ang iya bili ibayad sa iya nga ginkawat.
pati ang kamagulangan sang inyo mga baka kag mga karnero. Ang bag-o natawo nga baka ukon karnero dapat magpabilin sa iya iloy sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Pero halin sa ikawalo nga adlaw, puwede na ini ihalad sa akon.
“Kamo ang akon pinili nga katawhan, gani indi kamo magkaon sang karne sang bisan ano nga sapat nga ginpatay sang mapintas nga sapat. Ipakaon ninyo ini sa mga mga ido.
Kon ang iya ginkawat nga baka ukon donkey ukon karnero nasapwan nga ara pa sa iya kag buhi pa ini, bayaran niya ini sing doble.
“Kon ang sapat sang isa ka tawo iya ginpabay-an nga maghalab sa talamnan sang iban, kinahanglan nga bayaran niya ang nahalab nga tanom sang pinakamaayo nga patubas sang iya uma ukon sang iya talamnan sang ubas.
“Kon may tawo nga nagpanutod, kag may tawo nga nagpanutod, kag ang kalayo naglapta sa mga hilamon hasta sa talamnan sang iban nga tawo sang iban nga tawo , ang nagpanutod dapat nga magbayad sang mga tanom nga napierdi.
“Halimbawa, nagpatago ang isa ka tawo sang iya kuwarta ukon sang bisan ano nga butang sa iya tupad-balay, kag ginkawat ini. Kon madakpan ang kawatan, dapat magbayad siya sing doble.
Pero kon indi madakpan ang kawatan, ang ginbilinan sang pagkabutang pagadal-on sa presensya sang Dios,
“Halimbawa, may duha ka tawo nga nagabaisay kon sin-o sa ila ang tag-iya sang isa ka pagkabutang pareho sang baka, donkey, karnero, bayo, ukon bisan ano nga butang, dapat dal-on nila ang ila kaso sa presensya sang Dios. Ang nakasala sa ila suno sa desisyon sang Dios magabayad sing doble sa tag-iya.
“Indi kamo magbalita sang kabutigan. Indi kamo magbulig sa malain nga tawo paagi sa pagsaksi sing butig.
“Sa sulod sang anom ka tuig makatanom kamo kag makaani sa inyo duta.
Pero sa ikapito nga tuig indi ninyo ini pagtamnan. Kon may magtubo nga tanom sa inyo duta, pabay-i lang ninyo Kon may magtubo nga tanom sa inyo duta, pabay-i lang ninyo ang mga imol nga nga makakuha sang pagkaon sa mga tanom, kag ang mabilin ipakaon sa talunon nga mga sapat. Amo man sini ang inyo himuon sa inyo mga talamnan sang ubas kag sa inyo mga talamnan sang olibo.
“Mag-obra kamo sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw, pero sa ikapito nga adlaw magpahuway kamo para makapahuway man man ang inyo mga baka kag mga donkey, kag pati ang inyo mga ulipon kag ang mga pangayaw.
Tumana ninyo sing maayo sing maayo ining tanan nga ginsiling ko sa inyo. Indi kamo magpangamuyo sa iban nga mga dios ukon bisan magsambit sang ila ngalan.
“Magsaulog kamo sang tatlo ka piesta kada tuig para sa akon kadungganan kadungganan .
Sauluga ninyo ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok. Suno sa ginsugo ko na sa inyo, magkaon kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Himua ninyo ini sa gintalana nga tion sa bulan sang Aviv, kay amo ina nga bulan nga nagguwa kamo sa Egypt. Ang kada isa dapat magdala sa akon sang halad sa sina nga tion.
Sauluga man ninyo ang Piesta sang Pag-ani paagi sa pagdala sa akon paagi sa pagdala sa akon sang nahauna nga patubas sang inyo mga uma. Sauluga man ninyo ang Piesta sang Katapusan nga Ani sa katapusan sang tuig, kon magtipon na kamo sang mga patubas sang inyo mga uma.
Ang inyo mga lalaki dapat magtambong sa sini nga mga piesta kada tuig sa pagsimba sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo inyo Agalon.
Indi kamo maghalad sang dugo sa akon kaupod sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok. Ang tambok sang sapat nga inyo ginhalad sa akon sa piesta indi ninyo pag-ibilin pagkaaga.
“Indi ninyo paglutua ang bataon nga kanding sa gatas sang iya iloy.
Indi kamo magsunod sa kadam-an sa paghimo sing malain. Kon magsaksi kamo sa korte, indi ninyo pagtikua ang hustisya tungod gusto mo lang magsunod sa kadam-an.
“Karon, ginapadala ko ang anghel sa pagbantay kag sa pagtuytoy sa inyo sa lugar nga ginpreparar ko.
Pamati kamo sa iya kag tumana ang iya ginasiling. Indi kamo magrebelde sa iya. Kay ang tanan nga iya ginahimo, ginahimo niya sa akon ngalan kag indi niya pag-ibaliwala ang inyo mga sala.
Kon magpamati lang kamo sing maayo sa iya ginasiling kag himuon ang tanan ko nga ginasiling, kontrahon ko ang inyo mga kaaway.
Pangunahan kamo sang akon anghel kag dal-on niya kamo sa duta sang duta sang mga Amornon, Hithanon, Periznon, Canaanhon, Hivhanon, kag Jebusnon, kag pagalaglagon ko sila.
Indi kamo magsimba ukon mag-alagad sa ila mga dios-dios, ukon magsunod sa ila mga ginahimo. Laglaga ninyo sing bug-os ang ila mga dios-dios, kag rumpaga ang ila handumanan nga mga bato.
Simbaha ninyo ako ako , ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag hatagan ko kamo sang bugana nga pagkaon kag tubig. Ayuhon ko ang inyo mga balatian,
kag wala sing babayi nga mahulugan ukon mabaw-as sa inyo duta, kag hatagan ko kamo sang malawig nga kabuhi.
“Pahadlukon ko kag pasalasalahon ang inyo mga kaaway nga inyo maatubang kag magapalalagyo sila.
Magapadala ako sang mga alingayo nga magauna sa inyo, kag tabugon nila ang mga Hivhanon, Canaanhon, kag mga Hithanon.
Pero indi ko sila pagtabugon sa sulod lang sang isa ka tuig para indi mangin mamingaw ang amo nga duta kag para indi magdamo ang talunon nga mga sapat didto.
Indi ninyo pagpaburi ang mga imol sa ila kaso.
Tabugon ko sila sing amat-amat hasta nga magdamo kamo kag sarang na makapanag-iya sang duta.
“Siguraduhon ko nga ang border sang inyo mga duta maghalin sa Mapula nga Dagat hasta sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo,
Indi kamo maghimo sang kasugtanan sa ila ukon sa ila mga dios-dios.
Indi ninyo sila pagtuguti nga mag-estar sa inyo duta kay basi sila pa ang magtulod sa inyo sa pagpakasala sa akon. Kon magsimba kamo sa ila mga dios-dios, sigurado nga mangin siod ini sa inyo.”
“Kon makita ninyo nga nakabuhi ang baka ukon donkey sang inyo kaaway, dapat iuli ninyo ini sa iya.
Kon makita ninyo nga natumba ang donkey sang inyo kaaway tungod sa kabug-at sang iya sini karga, indi lang ninyo ini pagpabay-an kundi buligan ninyo nga makatindog.
“Siguraduha ninyo nga mahatagan sang hustisya ang mga imol sa ila kaso.
Indi kamo mag-akusar sing binutig. Indi ninyo pagpatya ang matarong o inosente nga mga tawo, kay silutan ko gid ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sini.
“Indi kamo magbaton sang lagay, kay ang lagay makabulag sa mga tawo sa kamatuoran, kag makahalit ini sa kinamatarong sang mga inosente.
“Indi ninyo pagpigusa ang mga pangayaw,
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Saka diri sa akon, kag upda si Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, kag ang 70 ka manugdumala sang Israel. Magsimba sila diri sa akon sa malayo-layo lang.
kag nakita nila ang Dios sang Israel. Sa iya tiilan daw may dalan nga hinimo halin sa bato nga sapiro nga pareho katin-aw sang langit.
Bisan nakita sining mga pangulo ang Dios, wala sila pagpatya sang Dios. Nagkaon pa gani pa gani sila kag nag-inom didto sa presensya sang Dios didto sa presensya sang Dios .
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Saka pa gid diri sa akon sa ibabaw sang bukid kag maghulat ka, kay ihatag ko sa imo ang malapad nga mga bato nga akon ginsulatan sang akon mga sugo kag mga pagpanudlo para sa mga tawo.”
Gani nagsaka pa gid si Moises sa bukid sang Dios kaupod si Josue nga iya kabulig.
Antes sila magsaka, Antes sila magsaka, nagsiling si Moises sa mga manugdumala sang Israel sang Israel , “Hulata ninyo kami diri hasta makabalik kami. Mabilin diri sa inyo si Aaron kag si Hur, kag kon may problema kamo, kadto lang kamo sa ila.”
Pag-abot ni Moises sa ibabaw pa gid sang bukid, gintabunan sang panganod ang bukid.
Dayon ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nagpanaog sa Bukid sang Sinai, kag sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw natabunan sang panganod ang bukid. Sang ikapito nga adlaw, gintawag sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises halin sa panganod.
Ikaw lang Moises ang makapalapit sa akon, ang iban indi makapalapit. Kag ang mga tawo indi gid dapat magsaka diri upod sa imo.”
Sang ginsugiran ni Moises ang mga tawo sang tanan nga gintudlo kag ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagsabat sila sing dungan, “Tumanon namon ang tanan nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Aga pa sang sunod nga adlaw, nagbangon si Moises kag nagpatindog sang halaran sa tiilan dampi sang bukid kag nagbutang siya sang dose ka handumanan nga bato nga nagarepresentar sang dose ka tribo sang Israel.
Dayon nagsugo siya sang bataon nga mga lalaki nga maghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag maghalad man sang mga turo nga baka bilang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Ginkuha ni Moises ang katunga sang dugo kag ginbutang ini sa mga yahong, kag ang katunga ginwisik niya sa halaran.
Dayon ginkuha niya ang Libro sang Kasugtanan kag ginbasa ini sa mga tawo. Kag nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Tumanon namon ang tanan nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sundon namon siya.”
Dayon ginkuha ni Moises ang dugo kag ginwisik ini sa mga tawo kag nagsiling, “Amo ini ang dugo nga nagapabakod sa kasugtanan nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo sang paghatag niya sining tanan nga sugo.”
Nagsaka sa bukid sa bukid si Moises, Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, kag ang 70 ka manugdumala sang Israel,
“Magpahimo ka sang Kahon nga akasya—45 inches ang kalabaon, 27 inches ang kasangkaron, kag 27 inches ang kataason.
Pahaklapi ini sang puro nga bulawan sa sulod kag sa guwa, kag parebitihi sang bulawan ang mga kilid sini.
Pahimui ini sang apat ka sulosingsing nga bulawan kag itakod sa iya apat ka tiil.
Dayon magpahimo ka sang mga tukon nga akasya kag pahaklapi sang bulawan.
Igulo ang mga tukon sa mga sulosingsing sa kada kilid sang Kahon para matuwangan ang Kahon.
Indi gid pagkuhaon ang mga tukon sa sulosingsing sang Kahon.
Dayon isulod sa Kahon ang malapad nga bato nga sa diin nasulat ang malapad nga bato nga sa diin nasulat ang Kasuguan nga ihatag ko sa imo.
“Pahimui ini nga Kahon sang takop nga puro bulawan, nga 45 inches ang kalabaon kag 27 inches ang kasangkaron.
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga maghalad sila sa akon. Ikaw amo ang magbaton sang ila mga halad nga ila gusto ihalad sa akon.
Kinahanglan nga ang mga pakpak sang kerubin nagahumlad sa ibabaw sang takop para mahandungan nila ini, kag kinahanglan nga nagaatubangay sila nga duha kag nagatulok sa takop.
Isulod sa Kahon ang malapad nga bato nga sa diin nasulat ang malapad nga bato nga sa diin nasulat ang Kasuguan nga ihatag ko sa imo, kag takpan mo ang Kahon.
Magapakigkita ako didto sa imo sa tunga sang duha ka kerubin nga ara sa ibabaw sang Kahon, kag ihatag ko sa imo ang tanan ko nga mga sugo para sa katawhan sang Israel.
“Magpahimo ka man sang lamisa nga akasya, nga 36 inches ang kalabaon, 18 inches ang kasangkaron, kag 27 inches ang kataason.
Pahaklapi ini sang puro nga bulawan kag parebitihi sang bulawan ang mga kilid sini.
Pabutangi man ini sang border sa kada kilid, nga 4 inches ang kasangkaron, kag parebitihi sang bulawan ang border.
Dayon magpahimo ka sang apat ka sulosingsing nga bulawan kag itakod ini sa apat ka tiil sang lamisa,
malapit sa border. Diri ninyo igulo ang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sa lamisa.
Dapat ini nga mga tukon akasya kag nahaklapan sang bulawan.
“Magpahimo ka man sang mga pinggan, mga tasa,
Amo ini ang mga halad nga imo batunon halin sa ila: bulawan, pilak, saway,
Kag kinahanglan butangan permi sang tinapay nga ginahalad sa akon presensya ato nga lamisa.
“Magpahimo ka man sang bulutangan sang suga
Ang bulutangan sang suga dapat may anom ka sanga, tag-tatlo sa kada kilid.
Ang kada sanga may tatlo ka dekorasyon nga mga bulak nga ang korte daw almendro, nga ang iban bukol pa lang kag ang iban nagabuskad na.
Ang lawas sang bulutangan sang suga may apat ka dekorasyon nga mga bulak nga ang korte daw almendro man, nga ang iban bukol pa lang kag ang iban nagabuskad na.
May isa ka bulak sa idalom sang kada paris sang sanga.
Ang mga dekorasyon kag ang mga sanga naporma na nga daan upod sa lawas sang bulutangan sang suga sang pagkahimo sini.
Dayon magpahimo ka sang pito ka suga kag ibutang sa sini nga bulutangan, kag iplastar mo ini nga masanagan ang lugar sa atubangan sini.
Ang mga kimpit kag mga inugsalod sa upos nga pabilo sang suga dapat puro man bulawan.
Mga 35 ka kilo nga puro nga bulawan ang kinahanglan mo sa pagpahimo sang bulutangan sang suga kag sang tanan nga kagamitan sini.
Siguraduha nga ipahimo mo ini tanan suno gid sa plano nga ginpakita ko sa imo diri sa bukid.
panit sang karnero nga lalaki nga ginlugom sa pula, maayo nga klase sang panit,
lana sang olibo para sa suga, mga panakot para sa lana nga inughaplas kag para pahamot sa insenso,
kag bato nga onix kag iban pa nga malahalon nga malahalon nga mga bato nga inugtakod sa espesyal nga panapton
Kag pahimua ang katawhan sang Israel sang simbahan para sa akon nga sa diin makaestar ako upod sa ila.
Ipahimo ining Tolda nga Simbahan kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini suno gid sa plano nga ipakita ko sa imo.
“Magpahimo ka sang Tolda nga Simbahan. Ang gamiton sa paghimo sini napulo ka panid nga linen nga ginbordahan sang delana
Pabutangi man sang 50 ka sulosingsing ang kilid sang katapusan nga panid sang tagsa ka tinambi nga mga tela,
kag tabidon ini sang 50 ka kaw-it nga saway.
Paluyluyon sa likod sang Tolda ang katunga sang tela nga sobra,
kag paluyluyon man sa kada kilid ang 18 inches nga tela nga sobra sa pagtabon sang Tolda.
Ang ibabaw sang tabon sang Tolda pasampawi sang panit sang lalaki nga karnero nga ginlugom sa pula, kag pasampawi pa gid dayon sang maayo nga klase sang panit.
“Ang dingding sang Tolda dapat mga tapi nga akasya.
Ang kalabaon sang kada tapi 15 feet kag ang kasangkaron 2 feet.
Ang kada tapi butangan sang duha ka diladila para matabid ini sa isa pa ka tapi. Kinahanglan pareho sini ang himuon sa kada tapi.
Ang 20 sa sini nga mga tapi idingding sa parte sang Tolda nga nagaatubang sa south.
Ini nga mga tapi isuok sa 40 ka pundasyon nga pilak—duha ka pundasyon sa kada tapi.
Kinahanglan ang kada panid may kalabaon nga 42 feet kag may kasangkaron nga 6 feet.
Ang sa north sang Tolda dingdingan man sang 20 ka tapi
kag isuok man sa 40 ka pundasyon nga pilak—duha ka pundasyon sa kada tapi.
Ang sa west sang Tolda dingdingan sang anom ka tapi,
kag duha ka tapi sa mga corner sini.
Ini nga mga tapi sa mga corner natabid sing maayo sa idalom kag nahugot sa ibabaw paagi sa isa ka sulosingsing. Kinahanglan pareho gid sini ang himuon sa duha ka tapi sa mga corner.
Gani may walo ka tapi sa sini nga parte sang Tolda, kag nasuok ini sa 16 ka pundasyon nga pilak—duha ka pundasyon sa kada tapi.
“Magpahimo ka man sang mga pangbalabag nga akasya para sa dingding—lima para sa parte sang Tolda nga nagaatubang sa north,
lima man sa south, kag lima pa gid sa west, sa likod sang Tolda.
Ang pangbalabag sa tunga-tunga sang dingding magahalin sa punta sang Tolda pakadto sa pihak nga punta.
Pahaklapi sang bulawan ang mga tapi kag pabutangi ini sang mga sulosingsing nga bulawan nga amo ang gululuan sang mga pangbalabag. Pahaklapi man sang bulawan ang mga pangbalabag.
Tambihon ini sa tag-lima; bali duha ka tag-lima.
“Kinahanglan nga ipatukod mo ang Tolda nga Simbahan suno gid sa plano nga ginpakita ko sa imo diri sa bukid.
“Magpahimo ka man sang kurtina nga linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Kag paburdahi ini sing maayo sang dagway sang mga kerubin.
Ipakabit ini sa mga kaw-it nga bulawan sa apat ka haligi nga akasya nga nahaklapan sang bulawan. Ining apat ka haligi nasuok sa apat ka pundasyon nga pilak.
Kon makabit na ang kurtina sa mga kaw-it, ibutang sa likod sini ang Kahon sang Kasuguan. Ang kurtina amo ang magaseparar sa Balaan nga Lugar sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar.
Ang Kahon sang Kasuguan dapat didto ibutang sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar kag dapat may takop ini.
Ibutang ang lamisa sa guwa sang kurtina sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar, sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar, sa north sang Tolda nga Simbahan, kag sa south, ibutang sa atubangan sang lamisa ang bulutangan sang suga.
“Magpahimo ka man sang isa pa ka kurtina para sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Simbahan. Ang kurtina kinahanglan linen nga ginbordahan sang delana
Dayon ipakabit ini sa mga kaw-it nga bulawan sa lima ka haligi nga akasya nga nahaklapan sang bulawan. Ining lima ka haligi nasuok sa lima ka pundasyon nga saway.”
Dayon pahimuan mo sang sulosingsing nga tela nga asol ang kilid sang katapusan nga panid sang tagsa ka tinambi nga mga tela;
tag-50 ka sulosingsing ang ibutang sa kada kilid kag kinahanglan nga nagaatubangay ini.
Dayon magpahimo ka sang 50 ka kaw-it nga bulawan para matabid ang mga sulosingsing sang duha ka tinambi nga mga tela. Sa sini nga paagi mahimo ang Tolda nga Simbahan.
“Dayon pahimuan mo sang tabon ang Tolda. Ang gamiton sa paghimo sini onse ka panid nga tela nga hinimo halin sa bulbol sang kanding.
Kinahanglan ang kada tela may kalabaon nga 45 feet kag may kasangkaron nga 6 feet.
Tambihon ang lima ka tela, kag amo man ang nabilin nga anom. Ang ikaanom nga tela piluon sa atubangan sang Tolda.
“Magpahimo ka sang kuwadrado nga halaran nga akasya. Ang iya kalabaon kag kasangkaron 7 feet kag 6 inches, kag ang kataason 4 feet kag 6 inches.
Itakod ini nga kurtina sa 20 ka haligi nga saway nga nasuok sa 20 man ka pundasyon nga saway. Ang kabitan sang kurtina amo ang mga kaw-it nga pilak nga nagakabit sa mga kabilya nga pilak sa mga haligi.
Ang kurtina sa north 150 feet man ang kalabaon. Itakod man ini sa 20 ka haligi nga saway nga nasuok sa 20 ka pundasyon nga saway. Ang kabitan sang kurtina amo ang mga kaw-it nga pilak nga nagakabit sa mga kabilya nga pilak sa mga haligi.
“Ang kurtina sa west 75 feet ang kalabaon, kag natakod ini sa napulo ka haligi nga nasuok sa napulo man ka pundasyon.
Ang sa east sang ugsaran 75 feet man ang kalabaon.
Ang dulodingding nga dulodingding nga kurtina sa tuo sang puwertahan sang puwertahan 22 feet kag 6 inches ang kalabaon, kag natakod ini sa tatlo ka haligi nga nasuok sa tatlo man ka pundasyon.
Ang kurtina sa wala 22 feet kag 6 inches man ang kalabaon, kag natakod man ini sa tatlo ka haligi nga nasuok sa tatlo man ka pundasyon.
Ang puwertahan mismo sang ugsaran pabutangi sang kurtina nga 30 feet ang kalabaon. Ang kurtina kinahanglan linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Kinahanglan nga maayo gid ang pagkaborda sini. Dayon itakod ang kurtina sa apat ka haligi nga nasuok sa apat ka pundasyon.
Kinahanglan ang tanan nga haligi sa palibot sang ugsaran may mga kaw-it kag mga kabilya nga pilak, kag may mga pundasyon nga saway.
“Gani ang bilog nga ugsaran may kalabaon nga 150 feet kag may kasangkaron nga 75 feet. Napalibutan ini sang kurtina nga linen, nga ang kataason 7 feet kag 6 inches. Ang mga haligi sini nasuok sa mga haligi sini nasuok sa mga pundasyon nga saway.
Kinahanglan puro saway ang tanan nga kagamitan sa Tolda nga Simbahan pati ang tanan nga palpal para sa pagbanting sang Tolda kag sang mga kurtina sang ugsaran sini.
Pabutangi ini sang mga sulosungay sa apat ka corner, nga naporma na nga daan upod sa halaran sang pagkahimo sini. Pahaklapi sang saway ang halaran.
“Sugua ang mga Israelinhon nga dal-an ka nila sang puro nga lana sang olibo nga ginbayo para sa mga suga sang Tolda sang Tolda , para magasiga ini permi.
Ang bulutangan sang suga ibutang sa guwa sang kurtina nga nagatabon sa Kahon sang Kahon sang Kasuguan. Si Aaron kag ang iya mga kaliwat amo ang mag-atipan sang mga suga sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Ang tanan nga kagamitan sang halaran kinahanglan hinimo man sa saway—ang bulutangan sang abo, mga pala, mga yahong, mga dako nga tinidor para sa karne, kag mga bulutangan sang baga.
Magpahimo ka man sang parilyahan nga saway para sa halaran, kag pabutangi ini sang sulosingsing nga saway sa kada corner.
Dayon ibutang ini sa sulod sang halaran sa idalom sang sagang, sa may tunga-tunga dampi halin sa ibabaw.
Dayon magpahimo ka sang tukon nga pangtuwang sa halaran. Kinahanglan halin ini sa kahoy nga akasya, kag nahaklapan sang saway.
Igulo ini nga tukon sa mga sulosingsing sa kada kilid sang halaran para matuwangan ang halaran.
Ang halaran nga ipahimo mo dapat tapi kag guhab ang sulod. Ipahimo ini suno sa plano nga ginpakita ko sa imo diri sa bukid.
“Pabutangi sang ugsaran ang Tolda nga Simbahan, kag palibuti ini sang mga dulodingding nga dulodingding nga kurtina nga linen. Ang kalabaon sang kurtina sa south 150 feet.
“Iseparar mo sa mga tawo si Aaron nga imo utod kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, kag Itamar, para mag-alagad sa akon bilang mga pari.
Dapat pasunod ang pagbutang sang mga ngalan suno sa ila pagkatawo, kag anom ka ngalan sa kada bato.
Dapat ang pag-inggreb sini pareho sa pag-inggreb sang platero sa pangmarka. Dayon ibutang ang mga bato sa mga bulutangan nga bulawan
kag itakod ini sa strap sang espesyal nga panapton bilang handumanan nga mga bato para sa mga tribo sang Israel. Sa sini nga paagi madala permi ni Aaron ang ila mga ngalan sa akon presensya, kag dumdumon ko sila.
Ang mga bulutangan nga bulawan
pabutangi sang duha ka kulokadena nga puro bulawan para matakod sa may abaga sang panapton.
“Magpahimo ka sang bulobulsa sa dughan nga ginagamit sa paghibalo sang akon kabubut-on.
Ining bulobulsa sa dughan dapat napilo sing doble kag kuwadrado—9 inches ang kalabaon kag ang kasangkaron.
Patakdi ini sang apat ka raya sang malahalon nga malahalon nga mga bato. Sa nahauna nga raya, ibutang ang rubi, topas, kag beril;
sa ikaduha nga raya, turquiso, sapiro, kag emeralda;
sa ikatatlo nga raya, hasinto, agate, kag ametist;
Magpatahi ka sang balaan nga mga panapton para kay Aaron para mapadunggan siya.
kag sa ikaapat nga raya, krisolito, onix, kag jasper. Dapat natakod ang mga bato sa mga bulutangan nga bulawan.
Ang kada bato dapat may ngalan sang mga anak ni Jacob
“Pabutangi man sang kulokadena nga puro bulawan ang bulobulsa sa dughan.
Dayon magpahimo ka sang duha ka sulosingsing nga bulawan kag iangot ini sa ibabaw nga mga corner sang bulobulsa sa dughan.
Iangot ang duha ka kulokadena nga bulawan sa sulosingsing sang bulobulsa sa dughan,
kag ang duha ka punta sang kulokadena iangot sa duha ka bulutangan nga bulawan nga bulawan nga nagatapik sa strap sang espesyal nga panapton.
Magpahimo ka pa sang duha ka sulosingsing nga bulawan, kag iangot ini sa idalom nga mga corner sang bulobulsa sa dughan nga nagasampaw sa espesyal nga panapton.
Magpahimo ka pa gid sang duha ka sulosingsing nga bulawan kag iangot ini sa espesyal nga panapton sa may wagkos dampi.
Dayon tabiron ninyo sang asol nga higot ang idalom nga mga sulosingsing sang bulobulsa sa dughan kag ang mga sulosingsing sang espesyal nga panapton. Sa sini nga paagi matabid sing maayo ang bulobulsa sa dughan sa espesyal nga panapton.
“Kon magsulod si Aaron sa Balaan nga Lugar kinahanglan isuksok niya ang ini nga bulobulsa sa dughan nga may mga ngalan sang mga tribo sang Israel para dumdumon ko sila permi.
Silinga ang tanan nga maayo nga mga sastre, nga ginhatagan ko sang abilidad sa pagpanahi, nga tahian nila sang mga panapton si Aaron nga magaseparar sa iya sa mga tawo para mag-alagad sa akon bilang pari.
Ibutang sa bulobulsa sa dughan ang Urim kag Thumim
“Ang pangguwa nga bayo nga nasampawan sang espesyal nga panapton kinahanglan puro asol
kag may buho sa tunga para sa ulo. Kag kinahanglan ang liab may kulokwelyo para indi ini magisi.
Kinahanglan nga isuksok ni Aaron ining pangguwa nga bayo kon magsulod siya sa Balaan nga Lugar sa pag-alagad sa akon presensya, para mabatian ang kilingkiling sang mga lingga-lingganay kon magsulod kag magguwa si Aaron sa Balaan nga Lugar. Kon himuon niya ini, Kon himuon niya ini, indi siya mapatay.
ginseparar para sa Ginoo . ginseparar para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
“Ang pangsulod nga bayo ni Aaron kinahanglan linen, kag amo man ang iya turban. Ang wagkos dapat ginbordahan sing maayo.
Amo ini ang mga panapton nga ila tahion: ang bulobulsa sa dughan, ang espesyal nga panapton,
Magpatahi ka man sang mga pangsulod nga bayo, mga wagkos, kag mga turban sa mga anak ni Aaron sa pagpadungog sa ila.
“Ipasuksok mo ini nga mga panapton sa imo utod nga si Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga lalaki, kag dayon haplasan
“Patahian mo man sila sang mga pang-idalom nga panapton nga linen, nga magatabon sang ila kinatawo. Ang kalabaon sini halin sa hawak hasta sa paa.
Kinahanglan nga isuksok nila ini kon magsulod sila sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, ukon kon magpalapit sila sa halaran sa Balaan nga Lugar sa pag-alagad bilang mga pari, para indi sila makasala kag mapatay. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ni Aaron kag sang iya mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
Kinahanglan ang tela nga ila gamiton linen nga ginbordahan sang bulawan nga hilo nga hilo kag delana nga asol, granate
“Ang espesyal nga panapton sang mga pari sang mga pari kinahanglan linen nga ginbordahan sang bulawan nga hilo nga hilo kag delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Kinahanglan nga maayo gid ang pagkaborda sini.
May duha ini ka parte, likod kag atubang, kag nasugpon ini sa duha ka strap sa may abaga.
Ang wagkos sini linen man nga ginbordahan sang bulawan nga hilo nga hilo kag delana nga asol, granate kag pula.
“Dayon magkuha ka sang duha ka bato nga onix kag painggrebi ini sang mga ngalan sang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jacob.
“Amo ini ang himuon mo sa pagdedikar kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga lalaki para makaalagad sila sa akon bilang mga pari. Magkuha ka sang bataon nga baka kag duha ka lalaki nga karnero nga wala sing deperensya.
“Dal-a ang bataon nga baka sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kag ipatungtong ang mga kamot ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak sa ulo sang baka.
Dayon ihawa ang baka sa akon presensya, didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Magkuha ka sang dugo sang baka kag ilamhit ini sa mga sulosungay sa mga corner sa mga corner sang halaran, kag ang mabilin nga dugo iula sa idalom sang halaran.
Dayon kuhaa ang tanan nga sapay sa kasudlan sang baka, ang gamay nga parte sang atay, kag ang mga batobato
Pero ang iya unod, panit, kag tinai sunugon mo sa guwa sang kampo. Halad ini sa pagpakatinlo.
“Dayon kuhaa ang isa ka lalaki nga karnero kag ipatungtong ang mga kamot ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak sa ulo sang karnero.
Dayon ihawa ini, kag iwisik-wisik ang dugo sini sa palibot sang halaran.
Hiwa-hiwaa ang karnero kag hugasi ang mga parte sang sulod sang tiyan kag ang mga tiil, kag tipuna ini pati ang ulo kag ang iban pa nga mga parte sang sapat.
Dayon sunuga ini tanan sa halaran bilang halad nga ginasunog para sa akon. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
“Dayon kuhaa ang isa pa ka lalaki nga karnero, kag ipatungtong ang mga kamot ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak sa ulo sang karnero.
Magkuha ka man sang maayo nga klase nga harina kag magluto sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok. Ang tinapay nga lutuon mo, tinapay nga wala sing mantika nga wala sing mantika , tinapay nga madamol nga ginmikslahan sang mantika, kag tinapay nga manipis nga ginlamhitan sang mantika.
Dayon ihawa ini, kag kuhaa ang iban nga dugo sini kag ilamhit sa idalom nga parte sang tuo nga dulunggan ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak, kag sa mga kumalagko sang ila tuo nga kamot kag tuo nga tiil. Dayon iwisik-wisik ang dugo sa palibot sang halaran.
Kuhaa ang iban nga dugo sa halaran kag imiksla ini sa lana nga inughaplas, kag dayon iwisik-wisik kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak kag sa ila mga bayo. Sa sini nga paagi madedikar si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak, pati ang ila mga bayo.
“Dayon kuhaa ang mga tambok sang karnero, ang matambok nga ikog, ang mga sapay sa kasudlan, ang gamay nga parte sang atay, ang mga batobato pati ang mga tambok sini, kag ang tuo nga paa. Amo ini ang karnero nga halad para sa ordinasyon sang mga pari sang mga pari .
Magkuha ka sa basket sang tig-isa ka klase sang mga tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok nga ginhalad sa akon: tinapay nga wala sing mantika nga wala sing mantika , tinapay nga madamol nga ginmikslahan sang mantika, kag tinapay nga manipis.
Pauyati ini tanan kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak kag ibayaw nila ini sa akon bilang halad nga ginabayaw.
Dayon kuhaa ini sa ila kag sunuga sa halaran upod sa halad nga ginasunog. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa akon.
Dayon kuhaa ang dughan sang karnero kag ibayaw ini sa akon bilang halad nga ginabayaw. Amo ini ang imo parte sa karnero nga halad para sa ordinasyon ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak kag sang iya mga anak .
“Idedikar sa akon ang mga parte sang karnero nga halad para sa ordinasyon ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak, lakip na diri ang dughan kag paa nga ginbayaw sa akon.
Sa kada halad sa akon sang mga Israelinhon sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, amo gid ini permi ang mga parte sang sapat nga ibahin sa ila ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak.
“ Kon mapatay na Kon mapatay na si Aaron, ang iya balaan nga mga bayo ihatag sa tagsa niya ka kaliwat nga magabulos sa iya bilang pangulo nga pari bilang pangulo nga pari , para ila ini suksukon kon ordinahan sila paagi sa paghaplas sang lana sa ila sang lana sa ila .
Isulod mo dayon ini nga mga tinapay sa basket kag dal-on sa akon upod sang bataon nga baka kag sang duha ka karnero nga lalaki.
Ang kaliwat ni Aaron nga magabulos sa iya bilang pangulo nga pangulo nga pari magasuksok sini nga mga bayo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw kon magsulod siya sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sa pag-alagad sa Balaan nga Lugar.
“Kuhaa ang karnero nga ginhalad sa pag-ordinar kag lutua ang karne sini sa isa ka balaan nga lugar.
Kaunon ini ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak, lakip ang mga tinapay sa basket, dira sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Sila lang ang makakaon sini nga karne kag tinapay nga ginhalad para matubos sila sa ila nga sala sang gin-ordinahan sila. Wala sing iban nga magkaon sini upod sa ila kay ini nga mga pagkaon para lang gid sa ila.
Kon may mabilin sini nga pagkaon pagkaaga, dapat sunugon ini. Indi gid ini pagkaunon, kay para lang ini sa mga pari.
“Sundon mo ining mga ginsugo ko sa imo parte sa pag-ordinar kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak. Himua ang pag-ordinar sa ila sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Kada adlaw maghalad ka sing isa ka baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para mangin matinlo ang halaran, kag dayon haplasan mo ang halaran sang lana sa pagdedikar sini.
Himuon mo ini sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw; kag dayon mangin balaan gid ang halaran, kag dapat balaan man ang nagauyat sini.
“Ang imo ihalad sa halaran adlaw-adlaw duha ka karnero nga isa ka tuig ang edad.
Isa sa aga kag isa sa hapon.
“Dal-a dayon si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki didto sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kag papaligua sila.
Sa imo paghalad sang karnero sa aga, maghalad ka man sing duha ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase. Mikslahan mo ini sang isa ka litro nga mantika nga halin sa olibo nga halin sa olibo nga ginbayo. Maghalad ka man sang mga isa ka litro nga duga sang ubas bilang halad nga ilimnon.
Sa imo paghalad sang karnero sa hapon, maghalad ka man sang pareho gihapon nga mga halad nga harina kag ilimnon. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa akon.
Himuon ko nga balaan ang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag ang halaran, kag iseparar ko si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak sa pag-alagad sa akon bilang mga pari.
Magapuyo ako upod sa mga Israelinhon kag ako mangin ila Dios.
Mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios nga nagpaguwa sa ila sa Egypt para magpuyo ako upod sa ila. Huo, Huo, ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Dayon ipasuksok kay Aaron ang iya pangsulod nga bayo, ang pangguwa nga bayo, ang espesyal nga panapton,
Ipasuksok sa iya ulo ang turban, kag ipatakod sa atubangan sang turban ang medalya nga simbolo nga simbolo nga ginseparar siya para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kuhaa dayon ang lana nga inughaplas
Idedikar man ang iya mga anak nga lalaki kag pasuksuka man sila sang pangsulod nga bayo,
turban, kag wagkos. Mangin pari sila hasta san-o. Sa sini nga paagi ordinahan mo si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak.
“Magpahimo ka sang halaran nga akasya nga sulunugan sang insenso.
Isa ka bes kada tuig, kinahanglan tinluan ni Aaron ang halaran paagi sa paglamhit sang dugo sa mga sulosungay sini. Ang dugo nga ilamhit magahalin sa halad sa pagpakatinlo. Dapat himuon ini kada tuig hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon, kay ang ini nga halaran balaan gid para sa akon.”
“Kon mag-census ka sa katawhan sang Israel, ang tagsa nga ma-census magbayad sa akon para sa iya kabuhi, para wala sing kahalitan nga mag-abot sa ila samtang gina-census mo sila.
Ang ibayad sang kada isa nga ma-census anom ka gramo nga pilak suno sa kilohan sang mga pari. Ihatag nila ini bilang halad sa akon.
Ang tanan nga nagaedad 20 ka tuig paibabaw amo ang maghatag sini sa akon.
Ang manggaranon indi magbayad sing sobra, kag ang imol indi magbayad sing kulang.
Gamita ini nga kuwarta para sa buluhaton sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Bayad ini sang mga Israelinhon para sa ila kabuhi, kag paagi sini dumdumon ko sila.”
“Maghimo ka sang saway nga labador nga may saway man nga tulungtungan, para gamiton nga hulugasan. Ibutang mo ini sa tunga-tunga sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag sang halaran, kag sudli ini sang tubig.
Amo ini ang gamiton ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak nga lalaki sa paghugas sang ila mga kamot kag tiil,
Kinahanglan nga kuwadrado ini—18 inches ang kalabaon kag ang kasangkaron, kag 36 inches ang kataason. Kinahanglan may ara ini sang mga sulosungay nga naporma na nga daan upod sa halaran sang pagkahimo sini.
“Magkuha ka sang pinakamaayo nga mga panakot: anom ka kilo nga mira, tatlo ka kilo nga mahamot nga sinamon, tatlo ka kilo nga mahamot nga calamus,
anom ka kilo nga cassia (dapat ang mga kabug-aton sini suno sa kilohan sang mga pari), kag isa ka galon nga lana sang olibo.
Paagi sini maghimo ka sang balaan nga lana nga inughaplas
Idedikar mo ini nga mga butang para mangin balaan gid ini; kag dapat balaan man ang nagauyat sini.
Pahaklapan mo sang puro nga bulawan ang ibabaw sini, ang apat ka kilid, kag ang mga sulosungay sini. Kag rebitihi ini sang bulawan sa palibot.
“Haplasi man sang lana sang lana si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak bilang pagdedikar sa ila, para makaalagad sila sa akon bilang mga pari.
Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga amo ini ang akon balaan nga lana nga inughaplas hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Indi ninyo ini pag-ibubo sa ordinaryo nga mga tawo, kag indi man kamo maghimo sang pareho sini nga lana para sa inyo kaugalingon. Balaan ini, gani kabiga ninyo ini nga balaan.
Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sang pareho sini ukon maggamit sini sa kay bisan sin-o nga indi pari, indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Magkuha ka sang sining mahamot nga mga panakot nga pareho tanan ang ila kadamuon: estakte, onika, galbano kag puro nga kamangyan.
Paagi sini maghimo ka sang insenso nga mahamot gid. Dayon asini ini para mangin puraw ini kag balaan.
Bukbuka sing mapino ang iban sini kag iwisik-wisik sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kahon sang Kasuguan nga ara sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, nga sa diin magapakigkita ako sa imo. Dapat kabigon mo ini nga balaan gid.
Indi kamo maghimo sang sini nga insenso para sa inyo kaugalingon. Kabiga ini nga balaan para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sini nga iya gamiton nga pahamot indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.”
Pabutangi sang duha ka sulosingsing nga bulawan sa idalom sang rebiti sa pihak kag pihak sang halaran, para gululuan sang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sini.
Kinahanglan ang tukon kahoy nga akasya kag nahaklapan sang bulawan.
Ibutang ini nga halaran sa atubangan sang kurtina nga nagatabon sa Kahon sang Kasuguan. Dira ako magapakigkita sa inyo.
“Kada aga, kon mag-asikaso si Aaron sang mga suga, magsunog siya sang mahamot nga insenso sa sina nga halaran.
Kag kon hapon, kon magsindi siya sang mga suga, magsunog siya liwat. Dapat himuon ini adlaw-adlaw hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Indi kamo maghalad sa sini nga halaran sang iban nga insenso ukon bisan ano nga halad nga ginasunog, ukon halad nga regalo, ukon halad nga ilimnon.
ang matahom kag balaan nga mga panapton ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak nga suksukon nila kon mag-alagad sila bilang mga pari,
“Himuon nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo ko sa imo.”
Dayon nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises
nga ihambal niya ini sa mga Israelinhon: “Tumana gid ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo parte sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kay tanda ini sang aton kasugtanan hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon. Sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpili sa inyo nga mangin akon katawhan.
Tumana ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kay balaan ini nga adlaw para sa inyo. Ang bisan sin-o nga wala nagasunod dapat gid nga patyon. Ang bisan sin-o nga mag-obra sa sina nga adlaw indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Obraha ninyo ang inyo buluhaton sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw, pero sa ikapito nga adlaw, magpahuway gid kamo. Tungod nga ini nga adlaw balaan para sa akon, ang bisan sin-o nga mag-obra sa sini nga adlaw dapat gid nga patyon.
Pagkatapos estorya sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises sa Bukid sang Sinai, ginhatag niya kay Moises ang duha ka malapad nga bato nga ginsulatan niya mismo sang Kasuguan.
“Ginpili ko si Bezalel, nga anak ni Uri kag apo ni Hur, nga halin sa tribo ni Juda.
Gin-gamhan ko siya sang akon Espiritu
sa paghimo sang matahom nga mga butang nga bulawan, pilak, kag saway,
sa pagporma sang malahalon nga mga bato nga inugtampok, sa pagkorte sang kahoy, kag sang tanan nga klase sang buluhaton.
Ginpili ko man si Oholiab nga anak ni Ahisamac, nga halin sa tribo ni Dan, sa pagbulig kay Bezalel. Ginhatagan ko man sang abilidad ang tanan nga maayo nga mga panday para mahimo nila ang tanan nga ginsugo ko sa imo nga himuon:
kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sa Tolda—
ang halaran nga sulunugan sang insenso,
ang labador kag ang iya tulungtungan—
Sang matalupangdan sang mga tawo nga kadugay kay Moises magpanaog sa bukid, nagtipon sila kay Aaron kag nagsiling, “Sige na! Himui kami sang dios
Gani pabay-i ako nga laglagon ko sila sa akon puwerte nga kaakig. Kag ikaw na lang kag ang imo mga kaliwat kag ang imo mga kaliwat ang himuon ko nga bantog nga nasyon.”
Pero nagpakitluoy si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, “O Ginoo Ginoo , ngaa ipaagom mo ang imo kaakig sa imo katawhan nga ginpaguwa mo sa Egypt paagi sa imo puwerte nga gahom?
Ano na lang ang hambalon sang mga Egyptohanon? Nga ginkuha mo ang imo katawhan sa Egypt sa tuyo nga patyon sila sa kabukiran para madula sila sa kalibutan? Indi pagpadayuna ang imo puwerte nga kaakig sa ila, kag indi sila paglaglaga.
Dumduma ang imo ginsumpa sa imo mga alagad nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob
Gani wala na pagpadayuna sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya plano nga paglaglag sa iya katawhan.
Dayon nagpanaog si Moises sa bukid nga dala ang duha ka malapad nga bato nga ginsulatan sang Kasuguan. Nakasulat ini sa atubangan kag sa likod sang amo nga mga bato.
Ang Dios mismo ang naghimo sini kag nagsulat.
Sang mabatian ni Josue ang ginahod sang mga tawo, nagsiling siya kay Moises, “Daw may gahod sang inaway sa kampo.”
Nagsabat si Moises, “Indi ina gahod sang kadalag-an ukon kapierdihan, kundi gahod ina sang pagkinanta.”
Sang malapit na si Moises sa kampo, nakita niya ang dios-dios nga dios-dios nga baka kag ang pagsinaot sang mga tawo, gani puwerte gid ang iya kaakig. Ginhaboy niya didto sa tiilan sang bukid ang malapad nga mga bato nga dala niya, kag nabuka ini.
Nagsabat si Aaron sa ila, “Panguhaa ninyo ang bulawan nga mga aritos nga ginasuksok sang inyo mga asawa kag mga anak, kag dal-a ninyo diri sa akon.”
Dayon ginkuha niya ang dios-dios nga dios-dios nga baka nga ila ginhimo kag ginsunog niya. Pagkatapos gindugmok niya sing mapino kag ginsabwag sa tubig, kag ginpainom sa katawhan sang Israel.
Nagsiling si Moises kay Aaron, “Ano bala ang ginhimo sining mga tawo sa imo nga gintugutan mo sila sa puwerte nga pagpakasala?”
Nagsabat si Aaron, “Indi ka mangakig sa akon. Nahibaluan mo man kon daw ano sila kadali madala sa kalautan.
Nagsiling sila sa akon, ‘Himui kami sang dios nga magapanguna sa amon, tungod nga wala kita kahibalo kon ano na ang natabo sining tawo nga si Moises nga nagpaguwa sa aton sa Egypt.’
Gani nagsiling ako sa ila nga dal-on nila sa akon ang ila bulawan nga mga alahas nga mga alahas . Sang madala na nila sa akon, ginhaboy ko ini sa kalayo kag nagguwa ining baka.”
Nakita ni Moises nga nagapakawala ang mga tawo kag ginpabay-an lang sila ni Aaron. Tungod sini nangin kaladlawan sila sa ila mga kaaway sa palibot sa palibot .
Gani nagtindog si Moises sa puwertahan sang kampo kag nagsinggit, “Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo nga nagaunong sa Ginoo Ginoo magpalapit sa akon!” Kag ang tanan nga kaliwat ni Levi nagtipon sa iya.
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga ang kada isa sa inyo magtaklos sang espada kag libuti ninyo ang kampo, kag pamatya ninyo inang malain nga mga tawo inang malain nga mga tawo bisan utod pa ninyo, amigo, ukon kasilingan.”
Gintuman sang mga kaliwat ni Levi ang ginsugo sa ila ni Moises, kag sadto nga adlaw mga 3,000 ka tawo ang napatay.
Nagsiling si Moises sa mga kaliwat ni Levi, “Ginseparar kamo subong nga adlaw sa Ginoo Ginoo , kay ginpamatay ninyo bisan ang inyo mga anak kag mga utod. Gani bendisyunan niya kamo subong nga adlaw.”
Gani ginpanguha nila tanan ang ila bulawan nga mga aritos kag gindala kay Aaron.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagsiling si Moises sa mga tawo, “Nakahimo kamo sang dako nga sala. Pero masaka ako subong sa bukid, didto sa bukid, didto sa Ginoo Ginoo ; basi pa lang mabuligan ko kamo nga matubos kamo sa inyo nga sala.”
Gani nagbalik si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling, “Daw ano kadako nga sala ang nahimo sini nga mga tawo. Naghimo sila sang dios nga bulawan.
Pero karon, patawara sila sa ila nga sala. Kon indi mo sila mapatawad, mo sila mapatawad, panasa na lang ang akon ngalan sa libro nga ginsulatan mo sang mga ngalan sang imo katawhan sang mga ngalan sang imo katawhan .”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Kon sin-o ang nakasala sa akon, ang iya ngalan amo ang akon panason sa akon libro.
Lakat, kag pangunahi ang mga tawo pakadto sa lugar nga ginsiling ko sa imo, kag magauna ang akon anghel sa inyo. Pero magaabot ang tion nga silutan ko sila tungod sang ila sala.”
Kag ginpadal-an sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kahalitan ang mga Israelinhon tungod nga ginsimba nila ang dios-dios nga dios-dios nga baka nga ginhimo ni Aaron.
Gintipon ini ni Aaron kag gintunaw kag ginporma nga baka. Nagsiling dayon ang mga Israelinhon, “Amo ini ang aton dios nga nagpaguwa sa aton sa Egypt.”
Pagkakita ni Aaron nga nalipay gid ang mga tawo, nagpahimo siya sang halaran sa atubangan sang baka kag nagpahibalo, “Buwas magasaulog kita sang piesta para sa kadungganan sang kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gani pagkaaga, aga pa gid nagbangon ang mga tawo kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Kag nagkinaon sila kag nag-ininom, kag nagpagusto pangalipay sa ila pagsimba sa dios-dios sa ila pagsimba sa dios-dios .
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Magpanaog ka gilayon kay ang imo katawhan nga ginpaguwa mo sa Egypt nagahimo sang kalautan.
Kadali lang sa ila maglapas sa akon mga ginmando sa ila. Naghimo sila sang ila dios-dios nga baka kag ginsimba ini. Naghalad ang mga Israelinhon sa sini nga dios-dios kag nagsiling, ‘Amo ini ang aton dios nga nagpaguwa sa aton sa Egypt.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Nakita ko kon daw ano katig-a ang mga ulo sang sini nga mga tawo.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Halin ka sa sini nga lugar, upod sa mga tawo nga ginpaguwa mo sa Egypt, kag kadto kamo sa duta nga ginsumpa ko nga ihatag kay Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob. Nagsiling ako sa ila sadto nga ihatag ko ini nga duta sa ila mga kaliwat.
Kag kon makita sang mga tawo ang panganod nga daw haligi sa puwertahan sang Tolda, nagatindog sila kag nagasimba sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo sa may puwertahan sang ila mga tolda.
Kon magpakig-estorya ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, daw sa nagaatubangay gid sila, pareho sa mag-abyan nga nagaestoryahanay. Pagkatapos nagabalik si Moises sa kampo, pero ang bataon niya nga kabulig nga si Josue, nga anak ni Nun, nagapabilin sa Tolda.
Nagsiling si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Permi mo ako ginahambalan nga pangunahan ko ini nga katawhan sa pagkadto sa duta nga imo ginpromisa sa pagkadto sa duta nga imo ginpromisa , pero wala mo pa ako ginpahibalo kon sin-o ang paupdon mo sa akon. Nagsiling ka pa nga kilala mo gid ako kag nalipay ka sa akon.
Kon matuod nga nalipay ka sa akon, tudlui ako sang imo mga pamaagi para makilala ko ikaw kag para malipay pa gid ikaw sa akon. Dumduma nga ini nga nasyon imo katawhan.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ako mismo ang magaupod sa imo, kag hatagan ko ikaw sang kapahuwayan.”
Nagsiling si Moises sa iya, “Kon indi ka mag-upod sa amon, indi kami pagpahalina sa sini nga lugar.
Kay paano mahibaluan sang iban nga nalipay ka sa akon kag sa imo katawhan kon indi mo kami pag-updan? Kag paano nila mahibaluan nga paano nila mahibaluan nga espesyal kami nga katawhan sang sa iban nga mga katawhan sa kalibutan?”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Himuon ko ang ginapangayo mo, kay nalipay ako sa imo, kag kilala ko gid ikaw.”
Dayon nagsiling si Moises, “Karon, ipakita sa akon ang imo gamhanan nga presensya.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ipakita ko sa imo ang tanan ko nga kaayo, kag imitlang ko sa imo ang akon ngalan, ang Ginoo Ginoo . Kaluoyan ko ang gusto ko nga kaluoyan.
Paunahon ko ang anghel sa inyo, kag tabugon ko ang mga Canaanhon, mga Amornon, mga Hithanon, mga Periznon, mga Hivhanon, kag mga Jebusnon
Pero indi mo makita ang akon nawong kay wala sing tawo nga makakita sa akon nga mabuhi.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Tindog ka diri sa dako nga dako nga bato malapit sa akon.
Kag samtang nagalabay ang akon gamhanan nga presensya, isulod ko ikaw sa guhab sang bato kag tabunan ko ikaw sang akon kamot hasta nga makaagi ako.
Dayon kuhaon ko ang akon kamot kag makita mo ang akon likod, pero indi ang akon nawong.”
sa sina nga duta nga maayo kag mapatubason.
Sang mabatian sang mga tawo ining masakit nga mga pulong, nagpangasubo gid sila kag wala sila magsul-ob sang ila mga alahas.
Kay nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises nga ihambal niya ini sa mga Israelinhon: “Mga matig-a kamo sing ulo nga mga tawo. Kon updan ko kamo bisan sa malip-ot lang nga tion, basi kon mapatay ko pa kamo. Karon, panghuksa ninyo ang inyo mga alahas hasta nga makadesisyon ako kon ano ang akon himuon sa inyo.”
Gani ginpanghukas sang mga Israelinhon ang ila mga alahas didto sa Bukid sang Horeb.
Kinabatasan na ni Moises nga magpatindog sang Tolda nga medyo malayo sa kampo. Ini nga Tolda ginatawag nga “Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.” Ang bisan sin-o nga gusto makahibalo sang kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo nagakadto sa sini nga Tolda.
Kon magsulod si Moises sa Tolda, nagatindog ang mga tawo sa puwertahan sang ila mga tolda. Ginatan-aw nila si Moises hasta nga makasulod siya sa Tolda.
Kag samtang didto si Moises sa sulod, nagapaidalom ang panganod nga daw haligi sa puwertahan sang Tolda samtang nagapakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Magbasbas ka sang duha ka malapad nga bato pareho sadtong nahauna, kay sulatan ko ini sang mga pulong nga nasulat sa nahauna nga bato nga ginbuka mo.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pamati! Himuon ko ini nga kasugtanan sa inyo. Sa atubangan sang tanan mo nga kasimanwa, mahimo ako sang makatilingala nga mga butang nga wala ko pa gid nahimo sa bisan diin nga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan. Ang mga katawhan sa palibot ninyo makakita sang sini nga mga butang nga himuon ko para sa imo.
Tumana ang mga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa imo subong. Tabugon ko ang mga Amornon, mga Canaanhon, mga Hithanon, mga Periznon, mga Hivhanon, kag mga Jebusnon sa duta nga ginpromisa ko sa duta nga ginpromisa ko sa inyo.
Siguraduhon mo gid nga indi ka maghimo sang kasugtanan sa mga tawo sa sina nga duta nga inyo pagakadtuan, kay mangin siod ini sa inyo.
Sa baylo, panggub-a ninyo ang ila mga halaran, pangdugmuka ang ila handumanan nga mga bato, kag pang-utda ang ila mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang ila diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang ila diosa nga si Ashera.
Indi gid kamo magsimba sa iban nga dios kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , indi gid gusto nga may ginasimba kamo nga iban.
Indi ka gid maghimo sang kasugtanan sa mga tawo nga nagaestar sa sina nga duta. Kay basi matintar kamo nga magkaon sang ila mga halad kon imbitaron nila kamo sa ila nga paghalad kag pagsimba sa ila mga dios.
Kag basi ang inyo mga anak magpangasawa sa ila mga anak, nga amo ang magatulod sa ila sa pagsimba sa iban nga mga dios.
“Indi kamo maghimo sang mga dios-dios.
“Sauluga ninyo ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok. Suno sa ginsugo ko sa inyo, magkaon kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Himua ninyo ini sa gintalana nga tion sa bulan sang Aviv, kay amo ina nga bulan nga nagguwa kamo sa Egypt.
“Akon ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki, pati ang mga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang inyo mga kasapatan.
Magpreparar ka para sa buwas sa aga, kag magsaka ka sa Bukid sang Sinai. Magpakigkita ka sa akon sa ibabaw sang bukid.
“Wala sing may magpalapit sa akon nga wala sing dala nga halad.
“Mag-obra kamo sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw, pero sa ikapito nga adlaw magpahuway kamo, bisan sa panahon sang tig-arado kag tig-alani.
“Sauluga ninyo ang Piesta sang Pag-ani paagi sa pagdala sa akon paagi sa pagdala sa akon sang nahauna nga patubas sang inyo trigo, kag sauluga man ninyo ang Piesta sang Katapusan nga Ani sa katapusan sang tuig.
“Kada tuig, ang tanan ninyo nga lalaki dapat magtambong sa sinang sinang tatlo ka piesta sa pagsimba sa akon, ang akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Agalon, ang Dios sang Israel.
Tabugon ko ang mga katawhan sa duta nga ihatag ko sa inyo, kag palaparon ko ang inyo teritoryo. Kag wala sing may magsalakay kag mag-agaw sa inyo nasyon sa panahon nga magpalapit kamo sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, sa sinang tatlo ka piesta ka piesta kada tuig.
“Indi kamo maghalad sang dugo sa akon kaupod sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok. Kag indi kamo magbilin sa masunod nga adlaw sang karne nga halad ninyo sa tion sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
“Indi ninyo paglutua ang bataon nga kanding sa gatas sang iya iloy.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Isulat ining ginsiling ko, kay amo ini ang pagsulundan sang akon kasugtanan sa imo kag sa Israel.”
Didto si Moises upod sa Ginoo Ginoo sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i nga wala siya sing may ginkaon kag gin-inom. Ginsulat niya sa malapad nga bato ang mga pagsulundan sang kasugtanan—ang Napulo ka Sugo.
Sang magpanaog si Moises sa Bukid sang Sinai, dala niya ang duha ka malapad nga bato nga ginsulatan sang Kasuguan. Wala siya kahibalo nga masilaw gali ang iya nawong tungod sa iya pagpakighambal sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kinahanglan nga wala sing may mag-upod sa imo; wala gid dapat sing bisan sin-o nga makita sa bisan diin nga parte sang bukid. Bisan mga karnero ukon mga baka indi gid pagpahalbon sa bukid.”
Sang makita ni Aaron kag sang tanan nga Israelinhon ang masilaw nga nawong ni Moises, nahadlok sila magpalapit sa iya.
Pero gintawag sila ni Moises, gani nagpalapit si Aaron kag ang mga pangulo sang komunidad sang Israel sang Israel , kag nagpakighambal si Moises sa ila.
Sang ulihi nagpalapit ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa iya. Kag ginsugid niya sa ila ang tanan nga sugo nga ginhatag sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Bukid sang Sinai.
Pagkatapos pakighambal ni Moises sa ila, gintabunan niya ang iya nawong.
Pero kon magsulod siya sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan para magpakighambal sa Ginoo Ginoo , ginakuha niya ang tabon hasta nga makaguwa siya sa Tolda. Kon makaguwa na siya, ginasugid niya sa mga Israelinhon ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya,
kag makita sang mga Israelinhon nga masilaw ang iya nawong. Dayon tabunan naman niya ang iya nawong hasta nga magbalik siya sa Tolda sa pagpakighambal sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani nagbasbas si Moises sang duha ka malapad nga bato nga pareho sadtong nahauna. Kag aga pa sang sunod nga adlaw, nagsaka siya sa Bukid sang Sinai suno sa ginmando sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo dala ang duha ka malapad nga bato.
Dayon nagpanaog ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa panganod kag ginmitlang niya ang iya ngalan nga Ginoo Ginoo samtang nagatindog si Moises sa iya presensya.
Naglabay ang Ginoo Ginoo sa atubangan ni Moises kag nagsiling, “Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang mabinalak-on kag maluluy-on nga Dios. Mahigugmaon kag matutom gid ako, kag indi dali mangakig.
Ginapakita ko ang akon paghigugma sa madamo nga tawo, kag ginapatawad ko ang ila kalautan, paglapas, kag sala. Pero ginasilutan ko ang mga nakasala, pati ang ila mga kaliwat hasta sa ikatatlo kag ikaapat nga henerasyon.”
Nagluhod dayon si Moises sa duta kag nagsimba.
Nagsiling siya, “O Ginoo, kon nalipay ka sa akon, nagapangabay ako nga mag-upod ka sa amon. Bisan matig-a ang ulo sang sini nga mga tawo, patawara kami sa amon kalautan kag sala. Batuna kami nga imo katawhan.”
Ginpatipon ni Moises ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel kag ginhambalan, “Amo ini ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo himuon:
“Ang tanan sa inyo nga may abilidad sa pag-obra magpalapit kag magbulig sa paghimo sang tanan nga butang nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon:
ang Tolda nga Simbahan kag ang iya sini mga tabon, mga kaw-it, mga dingding nga tapi, mga pangbalabag sa dingding, mga haligi, kag mga pundasyon;
ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan kag ang iya mga tukon nga pangtuwang, tabon, kag kurtina;
ang lamisa kag ang iya mga tukon nga pangtuwang kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini; ang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios;
ang bulutangan sang suga kag ang mga kagamitan sini; ang mga suga kag ang lana para sa mga suga;
ang halaran nga sulunugan sang insenso kag ang iya mga tukon nga pangtuwang; ang lana nga inughaplas;
ang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog kag ang iya sini parilyahan nga saway, ang iya mga tukon nga pangtuwang, kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini; ang saway nga labador kag ang iya tulungtungan;
ang mga kurtina sa palibot sa palibot sang ugsaran kag ang iya sini mga haligi kag mga pundasyon; ang kurtina sa puwertahan sang ugsaran;
ang mga palpal kag mga banting sang Tolda nga Simbahan kag sang ugsaran sini;
kag ang matahom kag balaan nga mga panapton sang pari nga si Aaron kag sang iya mga anak nga lalaki, nga ila suksukon kon mag-alagad sila bilang mga pari sa Balaan nga Lugar.”
Sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw, himua ninyo ang inyo mga buluhaton, pero sa ikapito nga adlaw magpahuway kamo, kay ini nga adlaw balaan kag para ini sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang bisan sin-o nga mag-obra sa sina nga adlaw dapat patyon.
Dayon naghalin ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sa atubangan ni Moises.
Ang tanan nga gusto gid maghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo nagdala sang mga materyales nga gamiton sa paghimo sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan
Ang tanan nga gusto maghalad, lalaki kag babayi, nagdala sang malahalon nga mga sibit, mga aritos, mga pulseras, kag nagkalain-lain nga klase sang mga alahas nga bulawan. Gindala nila ang ila mga bulawan bilang halad nga ginabayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo .
May naghalad man sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula, linen, panapton nga hinimo halin sa panapton nga hinimo halin sa bulbol sang kanding, panit sang karnero nga lalaki nga ginlugom sa pula, kag maayo nga klase sang panit.
Ang iban nagdala sang pilak ukon saway, kag mga tapi nga akasya bilang halad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang mga babayi nga may abilidad sa paghimo sang mga tela nagdala sang mga delana nga asol, granate kag pula, kag linen.
Kag ang mga babayi nga may abilidad sa paghimo sang panapton halin sa bulbol sang kanding, naghimo sini sing kinabubut-on.
Ang mga pangulo nagdala sang mga bato nga onix kag iban pa nga malahalon nga mga bato para inugtakod sa espesyal nga panapton sang pangulo nga pari sang pangulo nga pari kag sa bulobulsa sa dughan sini.
Nagdala man sila sang mga panakot kag lana sang olibo para sa mga suga, para sa lana nga inughaplas, kag para pahamot sa insenso.
Gani ang tanan nga Israelinhon, lalaki kag babayi, nga gusto magbulig nagdala sang ila mga halad nga kinabubut-on sa Ginoo Ginoo para sa tanan nga buluhaton nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
Gani indi gid kamo mag-obra, bisan mag-obra, bisan magdabok sang kalayo sa inyo mga puluy-an sa pagluto sa pagluto sa sina nga adlaw.”
Nagsiling si Moises sa mga Israelinhon, “Pamati! Ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo si Bezalel, nga anak ni Uri kag apo ni Hur, nga halin sa tribo ni Juda.
Gin-gamhan niya siya sang iya Espiritu kag ginhatagan sang kaalam kag abilidad sa bisan ano nga buluhaton—
sa paghimo sang matahom nga mga butang nga bulawan, pilak, kag saway;
sa pagporma sang malahalon nga mga bato nga inugtampok; sa pagkorte sang kahoy; kag sang tanan nga klase sang buluhaton.
Ginhatagan pa gid niya si Bezalel, kag amo man si Oholiab nga anak ni Ahisamac nga halin sa tribo ni Dan, sang abilidad sa pagtudlo sa iban sang ila nahibaluan sang ila nahibaluan .
Ginhatagan niya sila sang abilidad sa paghimo sang tanan nga klase sang buluhaton: sa pagdesinyo, sa paghimo sang tela, kag sa pagborda sa linen sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Masarangan nila nga himuon ang bisan ano nga klase sang buluhaton, kag maayo gid sila maghimo.”
Nagsiling si Moises sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel, “Amo ini ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo himuon:
Maghalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo halin sa inyo mga pagkabutang. Puwede kamo maghalad sang bulawan, pilak, saway,
lana sang olibo para sa mga suga, mga panakot para sa lana nga inughaplas kag para pahamot sa insenso,
kag bato nga onix kag iban pa nga malahalon nga mga bato nga inugtakod sa espesyal nga panapton
“Si Bezalel, si Oholiab, kag ang iban pa nga ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kaalam kag abilidad sa nagkalain-lain nga buluhaton amo ang mag-obra sang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gintambi nila ini sa tag-lima; bali duha ka tag-lima.
Dayon ginhimuan nila sang sulosingsing nga tela nga asol ang kilid sang katapusan nga panid sang tagsa ka tinambi nga mga tela;
tag-50 ka sulosingsing ang ginbutang sa kada kilid kag nagaatubangay ini.
Naghimo man sila sang 50 ka kaw-it nga bulawan para matabid ang mga sulosingsing sang duha ka tinambi nga mga tela. Sa sini nga paagi nahimo ang Tolda nga Simbahan.
Dayon naghimo sila sang tabon sa Tolda. Ang ila gin-gamit onse ka panid nga tela nga hinimo halin sa bulbol sang kanding.
Ang kada tela may kalabaon nga 45 feet kag may kasangkaron nga mga 6 feet.
Gintambi nila ang lima ka tela, kag amo man ang nabilin nga anom.
Ginbutangan nila sang 50 ka sulosingsing ang kilid sang katapusan nga panid sang tagsa ka tinambi nga mga tela,
kag gintabid nila sang 50 ka kaw-it nga saway.
Ang ibabaw sang tabon sang Tolda ginsampawan nila sang panit sang lalaki nga karnero nga ginlugom sa pula, kag ginsampawan pa gid nila sang maayo nga klase sang panit.
Gani ginpatawag ni Moises si Bezalel, si Oholiab kag ang iban pa nga ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kaalam kag abilidad sa nagkalain-lain nga buluhaton, kag gusto gid nga magbulig sa pag-obra.
Dayon naghimo sila sang dingding sang Tolda. Ang ila gin-gamit tapi nga akasya.
Ang kada tapi ginbutangan nila sang duha ka diladila para matabid ini sa isa pa ka tapi. Pareho sini ang ginhimo nila sa kada tapi.
Ang 20 sa sini nga mga tapi gindingding nila sa parte sang Tolda nga nagaatubang sa south.
Ini nga mga tapi ginsuok nila sa 40 ka pundasyon nga pilak—duha ka pundasyon sa kada tapi.
Ang sa north sang Tolda gindingdingan man nila sang 20 ka tapi,
kag ginsuok man sa 40 ka pundasyon nga pilak—duha ka pundasyon sa kada tapi.
Ang sa west sang Tolda, nga amo ang likod sini, gindingdingan nila sang anom ka tapi,
Ini nga mga tapi sa mga corner natabid sing maayo sa idalom kag nahugot sa ibabaw paagi sa isa ka sulosingsing. Pareho gid sini ang ginhimo nila sa duha ka tapi sa mga corner.
Ginhatag ni Moises sa ila ang tanan nga ginhalad sang mga Israelinhon para sa pagpatindog sang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda . Kag padayon pa gid ang pagdala sang mga tawo sang ila mga halad nga kinabubut-on kada aga.
Naghimo man sila sang mga pangbalabag nga akasya para sa dingding—lima para sa parte sang Tolda nga nagaatubang sa north,
Ang pangbalabag sa tunga-tunga sang dingding ginbutang nila halin sa punta sang Tolda pakadto sa pihak nga punta.
Ginhaklapan nila sang bulawan ang mga tapi kag ginbutangan sang mga sulosingsing nga bulawan nga amo ang gululuan sang mga pangbalabag. Ginhaklapan man nila sang bulawan ang mga pangbalabag.
Naghimo man sila sang kurtina nga linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Kag nabordahan ini sing maayo sang dagway sang kerubin.
Naghimo man sila sang apat ka haligi nga akasya nga may mga kaw-it nga bulawan, kag ginpakabit nila didto ang kurtina. Ining apat ka haligi nasuok sa apat ka pundasyon nga pilak.
Naghimo sila sang isa pa ka kurtina para sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Simbahan. Ang gin-gamit nila linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Kag maayo gid ang pagkaborda sini.
Naghimo man sila sang lima ka haligi nga may mga kaw-it, kag ginpakabit nila didto ang kurtina. Ini nga mga haligi nahaklapan sang bulawan pati ang ila sini ulo-ulo kag mga kabilya, kag nasuok ini sa lima ka pundasyon nga saway.
Gani sang ulihi ginbayaan anay sang mga nagaobra sang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda ang ila trabaho kag nagkadto kay Moises kag nagsiling,
“Sobra na ang ginadala sang mga tawo sang sa kinahanglanon para sa buluhaton nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon.”
Gani nagpadala si Moises sang sini nga sugo sa bilog nga kampo: “Wala na sing may maghalad para sa pagpatindog sang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda .” Gani nag-untat na ang mga tawo sa pagdala sang ila mga halad, sang ila mga halad,
tungod kay sobra na ang ila nahatag para sa tanan nga buluhaton sa Tolda sa Tolda .
Ang tanan nga maayo gid mag-obra amo ang naghimo sang Tolda nga Simbahan. Ang gin-gamit nila sa paghimo sini napulo ka panid nga linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Kag nabordahan ini sing maayo sang dagway sang mga kerubin.
Ang kada panid may kalabaon nga 42 feet kag may kasangkaron nga mga 6 feet.
Dayon ginhimo nila ni Bezalel ang Kahon sang Kasuguan sang Kasuguan . Ang gin-gamit nila kahoy nga akasya. Ang kalabaon sang Kahon 45 inches, ang kasangkaron 27 inches, kag ang kataason 27 inches.
Naghimo man sila sang lamisa nga akasya, nga 36 inches ang kalabaon, 18 inches ang kasangkaron, kag 27 inches ang kataason.
Ginhaklapan nila ini sang puro nga bulawan kag ginrebitihan sang bulawan ang mga kilid sini.
Ginbutangan man nila ini sang border sa kada kilid, nga 4 inches ang kasangkaron, kag ginrebitihan nila sang bulawan ang border.
Dayon naghimo sila sang apat ka sulosingsing nga bulawan kag gintakod ini sa apat ka tiil sang lamisa,
malapit sa border. Diri nila gin-gulo ang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sa lamisa.
Ini nga mga tukon akasya kag nahaklapan sang bulawan.
Naghimo man sila sang mga kagamitan nga puro bulawan para sa lamisa: mga pinggan, mga tasa,
Naghimo man sila sang bulutangan sang suga nga puro bulawan ang iya tiil, lawas, kag dekorasyon nga mga bulak nga ang iban bukol pa lang kag ang iban nagabuskad na. Ang dekorasyon naporma na nga daan upod sa lawas sang bulutangan sang suga sang pagkahimo sini.
Ang bulutangan sang suga may anom ka sanga, tag-tatlo sa kada kilid.
Ginhaklapan nila ini sang puro nga bulawan sa sulod kag sa guwa, kag ginrebitihan sang bulawan ang mga kilid sini.
Ang lawas sang bulutangan sang suga may apat ka dekorasyon nga mga bulak nga ang korte daw almendro, nga ang iban bukol pa lang kag ang iban nagabuskad na.
Naghimo man sila sang pito ka suga, sang mga kimpit sini, kag sang mga inugsalod sa upos nga pabilo sang suga. Ini tanan puro bulawan.
Mga 35 ka kilo nga puro bulawan ang nagamit sa paghimo sang bulutangan sang suga kag sang tanan nga kagamitan sini.
Naghimo man sila sang halaran nga akasya nga sulunugan sang insenso. Kuwadrado ini; 18 inches ang kalabaon kag ang kasangkaron, 36 inches ang kataason. May ara ini sang mga sulosungay nga naporma na nga daan upod sa halaran sang pagkahimo sini.
Ginhaklapan nila sang puro nga bulawan ang ibabaw sini, ang apat ka kilid, kag ang mga sulosungay sini, kag ginrebitihan sang bulawan sa palibot.
Ginbutangan nila sang duha ka sulosingsing nga bulawan sa idalom sang rebiti sa pihak kag pihak sang halaran, para gululuan sang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sini.
Ang tukon hinimo halin sa kahoy nga akasya kag ginhaklapan sang bulawan.
Naghimo man sila sang balaan nga lana nga inughaplas kag sang puro nga insenso nga mahamot gid.
Ginhimuan man nila ini sang apat ka sulosingsing nga bulawan kag gintakod sa apat ka tiil sini. Tag-duha sa pihak kag pihak.
Dayon naghimo sila sang mga tukon nga akasya kag ginhaklapan nila ini sang bulawan.
Gin-gulo nila ang mga tukon sa mga sulosingsing sa kada kilid sang Kahon para matuwangan ang Kahon.
Ginhimuan man nila ang Kahon sang takop nga puro bulawan, nga 45 inches ang kalabaon kag 27 inches ang kasangkaron.
Nagahumlad ang mga pakpak sang mga kerubin sa ibabaw sang takop para mahandungan nila ini. Nagaatubangay sila nga duha kag nagatulok sa takop.
Naghimo man sila sang kuwadrado nga halaran sang halad nga ginasunog. Ang gin-gamit nila kahoy nga akasya. Ang iya kalabaon kag kasangkaron 7 feet kag 6 inches, kag ang iya kataason 4 feet kag 6 inches.
Gintakod nila Gintakod nila ini nga kurtina sa 20 ka haligi nga saway nga nasuok sa 20 man ka pundasyon nga saway. Ang ginkabitan nila sang kurtina amo ang mga kaw-it nga pilak nga nagakabit sa mga kabilya nga pilak sa mga haligi.
Ang kurtina sa north 150 feet man ang kalabaon, kag natakod ini sa 20 ka haligi nga saway nga nasuok sa 20 man ka pundasyon nga saway. Ang ginkabitan sang kurtina amo ang mga kaw-it nga pilak nga nagakabit sa mga kabilya nga pilak sa mga haligi.
Ang kurtina sa west 75 feet ang kalabaon, kag natakod ini sa napulo ka haligi nga nasuok sa napulo man ka pundasyon. Ang ginkabitan sang kurtina amo ang mga kaw-it nga pilak nga nagakabit sa mga kabilya nga pilak sa mga haligi.
Kag may puwertahan ini nga may mga dulodingding man nga kurtina sa kilid. Ang mga dulodingding man nga kurtina sa kilid. Ang kurtina sa tuo 22 feet kag 6 inches ang kalabaon, kag natakod ini sa tatlo ka haligi nga nasuok sa tatlo man ka pundasyon.
Ang tanan nga kurtina sa palibot sang ugsaran linen.
Ang mga pundasyon sang mga haligi saway, kag ang mga kaw-it kag mga kabilya sini pilak. Ang mga ulo-ulo sang mga haligi nahaklapan sang pilak. Ang tanan nga haligi sa palibot sang ugsaran may ara sang mga kabilya nga pilak.
Ang kurtina sang puwertahan sang ugsaran linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate, kag pula. Kag maayo gid ang pagkaborda sini. Ang kalabaon sini 30 feet kag ang kataason 7 feet kag 6 inches, pareho sa kataason sang mga kurtina nga nagapalibot sa ugsaran.
Ini nga kurtina natakod sa apat ka haligi nga nasuok sa apat man ka pundasyon. Ang mga kaw-it kag mga kabilya sang mga haligi pilak, kag ang ila mga ulo-ulo nahaklapan sang pilak.
Ginbutangan nila ini sang mga sulosungay sa apat ka corner, nga naporma na nga daan upod sa halaran sang pagkahimo sini. Ginhaklapan nila sang saway ang halaran.
Puro saway ang tanan nga palpal sa mga banting sang Tolda nga Simbahan kag sang kurtina sa palibot sini.
Amo ini ang mga materyales nga gin-gamit sa pagpatindog sang Tolda nga Simbahan nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan. Ini nga mga materyales ginlista sang mga kaliwat ni Levi suno sa sugo ni Moises. Ini nga buluhaton gindumalahan ni Itamar nga anak ni Aaron nga pari.
Ang nagdumala sa pagpatindog sang Tolda nga Simbahan amo Ang nagdumala sa pagpatindog sang Tolda nga Simbahan amo si Bezalel nga anak ni Uri kag apo ni Hur, nga halin sa tribo ni Juda. Ginhimo niya ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Ang iya kabulig amo si Oholiab nga anak ni Ahisamac, nga halin sa tribo ni Dan. Maayo gid siya mag-obra kag magdesinyo, kag magborda sa linen sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula.
Ang kabug-aton sang tanan nga bulawan nga ginhalad para gamiton sa pag-obra sang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda mga 1,000 ka kilo suno sa kilohan sang mga pari.
Ang 3,500 ka kilo nga pilak gin-gamit sa paghimo sang 100 ka pundasyon sang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda kag sang mga kurtina. Bali 35 ka kilo kada pundasyon.
Ang nabilin nga 20 ka kilo nga pilak ginhimo nga mga kaw-it kag mga kabilya sang mga haligi, kag ginhaklap sa mga ulo-ulo sang mga haligi.
Ang kabug-aton sang saway nga ginhalad sa Ginoo Ginoo mga 2,500 ka kilo.
Ang tanan nga kagamitan sang halaran hinimo man sa saway—ang mga bulutangan sang abo, mga pala, mga yahong, mga dako nga tinidor para sa karne, kag mga bulutangan sang baga.
Gin-gamit ini sa paghimo sang mga pundasyon sang mga haligi sang mga haligi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Gin-gamit man ang mga saway sa paghimo sang mga pundasyon sang mga haligi sang mga haligi sa palibot sang ugsaran kag sang puwertahan sini, kag sa paghimo sang tanan nga palpal sa mga banting sang Tolda nga Simbahan kag sang mga kurtina sa palibot sini.
Naghimo man sila sang parilyahan nga saway para sa halaran, kag ginbutang nila ini sa sulod sang halaran sa idalom sang sagang, sa tunga-tunga dampi halin sa ibabaw.
Naghimo man sila sang apat ka sulosingsing nga saway kag gintakod ini sa apat ka corner sang parilyahan nga saway. Ini nga mga sulosingsing amo ang gululuan sang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sa halaran.
Ang mga tukon hinimo halin sa kahoy nga akasya kag ginhaklapan sang saway.
Gin-gulo nila ang mga tukon sa mga sulosingsing sa kada kilid sang halaran para matuwangan ang halaran. Tapi ang ginhimo nila nga halaran kag guhab ang sulod.
Dayon naghimo sila sang saway nga labador kag sang iya sini nga tulungtungan nga saway man. Ining mga saway nga gin-gamit halin sa saway nga saway nga espiho sang mga babayi nga nag-alagad sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Ginbutangan nila sang ugsaran ang Tolda ang Tolda , kag ginpalibutan nila ini sang mga dulodingding nga dulodingding nga kurtina nga linen. Ang kalabaon sang kurtina sa south, 150 feet.
Nagtahi man sila ni Bezalel sang balaan nga mga panapton para sa mga pari suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises. Ang tela nga gin-gamit nila delana nga asol, granate
Gintakdan nila ini sang apat ka raya sang malahalon nga malahalon nga mga bato. Sa nahauna nga raya, rubi, topas, kag beril;
kag sa ikaapat nga raya, krisolito, onix, kag jasper. Gintakod nila ini sa mga bulutangan nga bulawan.
Ang kada bato may ngalan sang isa sa mga anak ni Jacob sa pagrepresentar sang dose ka tribo sang Israel. Ang pag-inggreb sang mga ngalan pareho sa pag-inggreb sang pangmarka.
Ginbutangan man nila sang kulokadena nga puro bulawan ang bulobulsa sa dughan.
Naghimo man sila sang duha ka bulutangan nga bulawan kag duha ka sulosingsing nga bulawan, kag gin-angot nila ang duha ka sulosingsing sa ibabaw nga mga corner sang bulobulsa.
Gin-angot nila ang duha ka kulokadena nga bulawan sa duha ka sulosingsing sang bulobulsa,
kag ang duha ka punta sang kulokadena gin-angot nila sa duha ka bulutangan nga bulawan nga bulawan nga nagakabit sa strap sang espesyal nga panapton.
Naghimo man sila sang duha pa ka sulosingsing nga bulawan. Gin-angot nila ini sa likod sang idalom nga mga corner sang bulobulsa sa dughan, nga nagasampaw sa espesyal nga panapton.
Nagtahi man sila sang espesyal nga panapton
Naghimo pa gid sila sang duha pa ka sulosingsing nga bulawan kag gin-angot nila ini sa espesyal nga panapton sa may wagkos dampi.
Dayon gintabid nila sang asol nga higot ang idalom nga mga sulosingsing sang bulobulsa kag ang mga sulosingsing sang espesyal nga panapton. Sa sini nga paagi matabid sing maayo ang bulobulsa sa espesyal nga panapton. Ginhimo nila ini tanan Ginhimo nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Nagtahi man sila sang pangguwa nga bayo sang mga pari sang mga pari . Ini nga bayo nasampawan sang espesyal nga panapton. Ang tela nga ila gin-gamit sa pagtahi sini delana nga puro asol.
Ini nga bayo may liab nga ginbutangan sang kulokwelyo para indi ini magisi.
Ginpakabitan nila ang palibot sang sidsid sang bayo sang mga puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata, nga hinimo halin sa linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula.
Naghimo man sila sang pangsulod nga mga bayo para kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga lalaki. Ang tela nga ila gin-gamit linen.
Amo man nga tela ang gin-gamit nila sa paghimo sang mga turban, mga kalo kag mga pang-idalom nga panapton.
Ang mga wagkos linen man nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Kag maayo gid ang pagkaborda sini. Ginhimo nila ini tanan Ginhimo nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Naghimo sila sang hilo nga bulawan paagi sa pagtapan sang bulawan kag pagkihad-kihad sini sing manipis. Dayon ginborda nila ini sa linen kaupod sang delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Maayo gid ang pagkaborda sini.
Gintapik nila ini sa atubangan sang turban ni Aaron ni Aaron paagi sa asol nga higot. Ginhimo nila ini tanan Ginhimo nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Natapos ang tanan nga buluhaton sa Tolda nga Simbahan, nga ginatawag man nga nga ginatawag man nga Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Ginhimo sang mga Israelinhon ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Ginpakita nila kay Moises ang Tolda nga Simbahan kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini: ang mga kaw-it, mga dingding, mga pangbalabag sa dingding, mga haligi, mga pundasyon;
ang tabon nga hinimo halin sa mga panit sang lalaki nga mga karnero nga ginlugom sa pula, ang tabon nga hinimo halin sa maayo nga klase sang panit,
ang Kahon sang Kasuguan kag ang iya tabon kag mga tukon nga pangtuwang;
ang lamisa kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini; ang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios;
ang bulutangan sang suga nga puro bulawan kag ang nagaraya nga mga suga kag kagamitan sini; ang lana para sa mga suga;
ang halaran nga bulawan; ang lana nga inughaplas; ang mahamot nga insenso; ang kurtina sang puwertahan sang Tolda;
ang halaran nga saway kag ang iya sini parilyahan nga saway, ang iya mga tukon nga pangtuwang, kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini; ang labador kag ang iya tulungtungan;
May duha ka parte ini nga panapton, likod kag atubangan, kag nasugpon ini sa duha ka strap sa may abaga.
ang mga kurtina sa palibot sa palibot sang ugsaran kag ang iya sini mga haligi kag mga pundasyon; ang kurtina sa puwertahan sang ugsaran; ang mga higot kag mga palpal para sa kurtina sang kurtina sang ugsaran; ang tanan nga kagamitan sang Tolda nga Simbahan, nga ginatawag man nga nga ginatawag man nga Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan;
kag ang matahom kag balaan nga mga panapton sang pari nga si Aaron kag sang iya mga anak nga lalaki, nga ila suksukon kon mag-alagad sila bilang mga pari sa Balaan nga Lugar.
Ginhimo sang mga Israelinhon ang tanan nga buluhaton suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Gintan-aw ni Moises ang ila obra, kag nakita niya nga ginhimo nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Gani ginbendisyunan sila ni Moises.
Ang wagkos sini linen man nga ginbordahan sang bulawan nga hilo nga hilo kag delana nga asol, granate kag pula. Ginhimo nila ini tanan Ginhimo nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Gintakod nila ang mga bato nga onix sa mga bulutangan nga bulawan. Gin-inggreban nila ini sang mga ngalan sang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jacob
Gintakod dayon nila ini sa mga strap sang espesyal nga panapton bilang handumanan nga mga bato para sa mga tribo sang Israel. Ginhimo nila ini tanan Ginhimo nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Naghimo man sila sang bulobulsa sa dughan, kag maayo gid ang pagkahimo sini. Ang tela sini pareho man sa tela sang espesyal nga panapton: linen nga ginbordahan sang bulawan nga hilo nga hilo kag delana nga asol, granate kag pula.
Ining bulobulsa sa dughan napilo sing doble kag kuwadrado—9 inches ang kalabaon kag ang kasangkaron.
Haplasi man ang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini sa pagdedikar sini sa akon, kag mangin sagrado gid ini.
Haplasi man ang labador kag ang iya tulungtungan sa pagdedikar sini sa akon.
“Dal-a si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag papaligua sila didto.
Dayon ipasuksok kay Aaron ang iya balaan nga mga bayo kag idedikar siya sa akon paagi sa paghaplas sa iya sang lana sang lana para makaalagad siya sa akon bilang pari.
Dal-a man ang iya mga anak kag ipasuksok sa ila ang ila pangsulod nga bayo.
Haplasi man sila sang lana sang lana pareho sa ginhimo mo sa ila amay, para makaalagad man sila sa akon bilang mga pari hasta sa palaabuton nga henerasyon.”
Ginhimo ni Moises ang tanan nga ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ginpatindog ang Tolda nga Simbahan sang nahauna nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan. Ikaduha ato nga tuig halin sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt halin sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt .
Amo ini ang pagpatindog ni Moises sang Tolda: Gintakod niya ang mga pundasyon sini, ang mga dingding, ang mga pangbalabag sa dingding, kag ang mga haligi.
Dayon ginhumlad niya ang Tolda, kag ginsampawan pa gid niya sang tabon. Ginhimo niya ini tanan Ginhimo niya ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Iplastar ang Tolda nga Simbahan, nga ginatawag man nga nga ginatawag man nga Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, sa nahauna nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan.
Dayon ginsulod niya sa Kahon ang malapad nga bato nga ginsulatan sang malapad nga bato nga ginsulatan sang Kasuguan, kag gin-gulo niya sa mga sulosingsing sang Kahon ang mga tukon nga pangtuwang, kag gintabunan ini.
Dayon ginsulod niya ang Kahon sa Tolda nga Simbahan, kag gintakod niya ang kurtina para malipdan ang Kahon sang Kasuguan, suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo. Ginoo.
Ginbutang niya ang lamisa sa sulod sang Tolda, sa north dampi, sa guwa lang sang kurtina.
Dayon ginbutang niya sa lamisa ang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginhimo niya ini tanan Ginhimo niya ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginbutang man niya ang bulutangan sang suga didto sa sulod sang Tolda, sa atubangan sang lamisa, sa south dampi.
Kag ginbutang niya ang mga suga sini didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginhimo niya ini tanan Ginhimo niya ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginbutang man niya ang bulawan nga halaran sa sulod sang Tolda, sa atubangan sang kurtina,
kag nagsunog siya sang mahamot nga insenso sa halaran. Ginhimo niya ini tanan Ginhimo niya ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gintakod man niya ang kurtina sa puwertahan sang Tolda.
Kag ginbutang niya didto malapit sa puwertahan ang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog. Dayon naghalad siya sa sini nga halaran sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga regalo. Ginhimo niya ini tanan Ginhimo niya ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ipasulod didto ang Kahon sang Kasuguan, kag lipdi ini sang kurtina.
Ginbutang man niya ang labador sa tunga-tunga sang Tolda kag sang halaran, kag ginsudlan niya sang tubig para hilinawan.
Didto nagapanghinaw si Moises, si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki sang ila mga kamot kag tiil.
Nagapanghinaw sila kon magsulod sila sa Tolda ukon magpalapit sa halaran. Ginhimo nila ini tanan Ginhimo nila ini tanan suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Dayon ginbutang ni Moises ang mga kurtina sang ugsaran, nga nagapalibot sa Tolda kag sa halaran, pati ang kurtina sang puwertahan sang ugsaran. Kag natapos gid ni Moises ang tanan nga buluhaton.
Pagkatapos sini tanan, ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo naglikop sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sa dagway sang panganod.
Indi makasulod si Moises sa Tolda tungod kay nalikupan ini sang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa dagway sang panganod.
Kon mag-alsa na gani ang panganod sa ibabaw sang Tolda kag maghalin, nagahalin man ang mga Israelinhon sa ila ginakampuhan.
Kon indi gani maghalin ang panganod, indi man sila maghalin.
Ang panganod nga nagasimbolo sang presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo ara sa ibabaw sang Tolda kon adlaw, kag kon gab-i may kalayo sa panganod para makita ini sang tanan nga Israelinhon sa ila nga pagpanglakaton.
Ipasulod mo man didto ang lamisa kag iplastar ang mga kagamitan sini. Ipasulod mo man ang bulutangan sang suga kag ibutang ang mga suga sini.
Ibutang ang bulawan nga halaran nga sulunugan sang insenso sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kasuguan, kag itakod ang kurtina sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Simbahan.
“Ibutang ang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog sa atubangan sang puwertahan sang Tolda nga Simbahan.
Ibutang ang labador sa tunga-tunga sang Tolda kag sang halaran, kag sudli ini sang tubig.
Ibutang ang mga kurtina sang ugsaran, nga nagapalibot sa Tolda, pati ang kurtina sang puwertahan sang ugsaran.
“Dayon kuhaa ang lana kag haplasi
Kon karnero ukon kanding ang ihalad sang tawo bilang halad nga ginasunog, kinahanglan nga lalaki ini nga wala sing deperensya.
Ihawon niya ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa north sang halaran. Kag ang dugo sini iwisik-wisik sang mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron didto sa palibot sang halaran.
Pagkatapos nga mahiwa-hiwa ini sang manughalad, iplastar sang pari ini nga mga hiniwa sa kalayo, pati ang ulo kag ang mga tambok.
Dapat hugasan anay anay sang manughalad ang kasudlan kag ang mga tiil sini. Kag ang pari amo na ang magasunog sini tanan sa halaran bilang halad nga ginasunog. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon pispis ang ihalad sang tawo bilang halad nga ginasunog, kinahanglan nga pating ini ukon tukmo.
Dal-on ini sang pari sa halaran, lubagon niya ang liog hasta nga mautod, kag patuluon niya ang dugo sini sa kilid sang halaran. Dayon sunugon niya ang ulo sa halaran.
Kuhaon niya ang balonbalunan pati ang mga kinaon
Pihakon niya ang pispis paagi sa paghitad sang pakpak sini pero indi lang niya pagbitason ang pakpak. Dayon sunugon niya ang pispis sa halaran bilang halad nga ginasunog. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon baka ang iya ihalad bilang halad nga ginasunog, kinahanglan nga lalaki ini nga wala sing deperensya, kag ihalad niya ini didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, agod paagi sa sini nga halad batunon siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang baka nga iya baka nga iya ginahalad, kag batunon ini sang Ginoo Ginoo para matubos siya sa iya mga sala.
Dayon ihawon niya ang ini nga sapat sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag ang dugo sini iwisik-wisik sang mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron didto sa palibot sang halaran, nga ara dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Dayon panitan sang manughalad ang sapat kag hiwa-hiwaon.
Pagkatapos, ang mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron magpadukot sang kalayo sa halaran kag gatungan nila ini sang mga kahoy nga naplastar sing maayo.
Kag dayon iplastar nila sa kalayo ang hiniwa nga mga parte sang sapat, pati ang ulo kag ang mga tambok.
Dapat hugasan anay anay sang manughalad ang kasudlan kag ang mga tiil sini. Kag ang pari amo na ang magsunog sini tanan sa halaran bilang halad nga ginasunog. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
Kon may maghalad sang halad nga regalo sa Ginoo Ginoo , gamiton niya ang maayo nga klase nga harina. Butangan niya ini sang mantika
Ang nabilin sa sini nga halad iya na ni Aaron kag sang iya mga kaliwat, kag balaan gid ini tungod nga parte ini sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo nga ginhalad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang tanan nga halad nga regalo nga ginahalad sa Ginoo Ginoo kinahanglan nga wala sing inugpahabok, kay indi kamo dapat magsunog sang inugpahabok ukon honey sa inyo paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo.
Puwede ninyo ihalad ang inugpahabok ukon honey bilang halad halin sa nahauna nga parte sang inyo patubas,
Asini ang tanan ninyo nga halad nga regalo, kay ang asin simbolo sang inyo wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan nga kasugtanan sa inyo Dios. Asini ang tanan ninyo nga halad.
Kon maghalad kamo halin sa inyo una nga patubas bilang regalo sa Ginoo Ginoo , maghalad kamo sang ginaling nga mga uyas
Butangan ninyo ini sang mantika kag insenso. Halad ini nga regalo.
Sunugon sang pari ang iban nga ginaling nga may mantika, lakip ang tanan nga insenso nga ginbutang didto sa ginaling, bilang pagdumdom sa Ginoo Ginoo . Halad ini nga paagi sa kalayo para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dal-on niya ini sa mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron. Dayon buhinan sang pari sing isa ka hakop ang ginmiksla nga harina kag mantika, kag ang iya ginbuhin sunugon niya sa halaran lakip ang tanan nga insenso nga ginbutang didto sa harina. Sunugon niya ini bilang pagdumdom sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang nabilin nga harina iya na ni Aaron kag sang iya mga kaliwat, kag balaan gid ini tungod nga parte ini sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo nga ginhalad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon may maghalad sang tinapay nga ginluto sa pugon bilang halad nga regalo, kinahanglan nga ginhimo ini halin sa maayo nga klase nga harina kag wala ginbutangan sing inugpahabok. Puwede nga ihalad ang madamol nga tinapay nga ginmikslahan sang mantika ukon ang manipis nga tinapay nga ginlamhitan sang mantika.
Kon ang tinapay nga ihalad ginluto sa sartin, kinahanglan nga ginhimo ini halin sa maayo nga klase nga harina kag ginmikslahan sang mantika, pero wala ginbutangan sing inugpahabok.
Pihak-pihakon ini kag butangan sang mantika. Halad ini nga regalo.
Kon ang tinapay nga ihalad ginluto sa kalaha, kinahanglan nga ginhimo man ini halin sa maayo nga klase nga harina kag ginmikslahan man sang mantika.
Dal-a ang ini nga klase sang mga halad sa pari para ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo didto sa halaran.
Buhinan ini sang pari, kag ang iya ginbuhin sunugon niya sa halaran bilang pagdumdom sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon may maghalad sang baka nga lalaki ukon babayi bilang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, kinahanglan ang iya ihalad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo wala sing deperensya.
ang mga batobato pati ang mga tambok sini, kag ang gamay nga parte sang atay.
Sunugon ini tanan tanan sang pari sa halaran bilang halad nga halad nga pagkaon.
Kon kanding ang iya ihalad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang kanding kag ihawon niya ini didto sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Ang dugo sini iwisik-wisik sang mga pari nga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron didto sa palibot sang halaran.
Halin sa sina nga halad, magkuha ang pari sang ihalad niya sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Ang iya kuhaon amo ang tanan nga sapay sa kasudlan,
Sunugon ini tanan tanan sang pari sa halaran bilang halad nga halad nga pagkaon. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang tanan nga tambok iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi kamo magkaon sang tambok ukon dugo. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ninyo hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon, bisan diin kamo mag-estar.
Itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang baka, kag ihawon niya ini didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Ang dugo sini iwisik-wisik sang mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron didto sa palibot sang halaran.
Halin sa sina nga halad, magkuha ang pari sang ihalad niya sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo.
ang mga batobato
Dayon sunugon ini sang mga pari nga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron sa halaran upod sa halad nga ginasunog. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon karnero ukon kanding ang iya ihalad para sa maayo nga relasyon sa Ginoo Ginoo , kinahanglan nga lalaki ini ukon babayi nga wala sing deperensya.
Kon karnero ang iya ihalad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang karnero kag ihawon niya ini didto sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Ang dugo sini iwisik-wisik sang mga pari nga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron didto sa palibot sang halaran.
Halin sa sina nga halad, magkuha ang pari sang ihalad niya sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Ang iya kuhaon amo ang mga tambok, ang matambok nga ikog nga suop ang pagkautod, ang tanan nga sapay sa kasudlan,
(Amo man ini ang ginahimo sa sapat nga halad para sa maayo nga relasyon.) Dayon sunugon ini tanan tanan sang pari sa halaran sang halad nga ginasunog.
Kon ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel nakalapas sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero indi nila hungod, nakasala gihapon sila bisan pa wala sila kahibalo sini.
Kon mahibaluan na nila nga nakasala gali sila, ang komunidad maghalad sang bataon nga baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo. Dal-on nila ini nga baka didto sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Dayon itungtong sang mga manugdumala sang mga Israelinhon ang ila mga kamot sa ulo sang baka kag ihawon dayon nila ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon magkuha ang pangulo nga pari sang dugo sang sadto nga baka kag dal-on niya sa sulod sang Tolda.
Itum-oy niya ang iya tudlo sa dugo kag iwisik-wisik ini sing makapito ka beses sa kurtina nga nagatabon sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar nga nagatabon sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar , didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon lamhitan niya sang dugo ang mga sulosungay sang halaran didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sulod sang Tolda. Ang nabilin nga dugo iula niya sa idalom sang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog. Ini nga halaran ara dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda.
Kon ang isa ka pangulo nakalapas sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, pero indi niya hungod, nakasala gihapon siya.
Kon mahibaluan na niya nga nakasala gali siya, maghalad siya sang lalaki nga kanding nga wala sing deperensya.
Halad ini para sa iya nga pagpakatinlo. Itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang kanding kag ihawon niya ini didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa may lugar nga ginaihawan man sang mga sapat nga bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Dayon itum-oy sang pari ang iya tudlo sa dugo sang kanding kag ilamhit niya ini sa mga sulosungay sang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog. Ang nabilin nga dugo iula niya sa idalom sang halaran.
Sunugon niya ang tanan nga tambok sa halaran pareho sa ginahimo sa tambok sang sapat nga halad para sa maayo nga relasyon. Paagi sa sining himuon sang pari, matubos ang amo nga pangulo sa iya nga sala kag patawaron siya sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon ang isa sa inyo nakalapas sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero indi niya hungod, nakasala gihapon siya.
Kon mahibaluan na niya nga nakasala gali siya, maghalad siya sang babayi nga kanding nga wala sing deperensya para sa sala nga iya nahimo.
Itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang sining halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag ihawon niya ini didto sa Tolda didto sa Tolda , sa may lugar nga ginaihawan man sang mga sapat nga bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Kon ang pangulo nga pari nakasala nga indi niya hungod nga indi niya hungod , kag tungod sini nadalahig ang mga tawo, maghalad siya sa Ginoo Ginoo sang bataon nga baka nga wala sing deperensya bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Dayon kuhaon niya ang tanan nga tambok sang kanding pareho sa ginahimo sa sapat nga halad para sa maayo nga relasyon. Pagkatapos sunugon niya ang tambok sa halaran bilang mahamot nga halad nga makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo . Paagi sa sining himuon sang pari, matubos ang tawo sa iya nga sala kag patawaron siya sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon karnero ang ihalad sang tawo para sa iya pagpakatinlo, kinahanglan nga babayi ini nga wala sing deperensya.
Itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang karnero kag ihawon ini didto sa Tolda didto sa Tolda , sa may lugar nga ginaihawan man sang mga sapat nga bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Dayon itum-oy sang pari ang iya kamot sa dugo sang karnero kag ilamhit niya ini sa mga sulosungay sang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog. Ang nabilin nga dugo iula niya sa idalom sang halaran.
Dayon kuhaon niya ang tanan nga tambok sang karnero pareho sa ginahimo sa karnero nga halad para sa maayo nga relasyon. Pagkatapos sunugon niya ang tambok sa halaran upod sa iban pa nga mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
Dal-on niya ang baka sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ulo sang baka kag ihawon niya ini.
Itum-oy niya ang iya tudlo sa dugo kag iwisik-wisik ini sing makapito ka beses sa atubangan sang kurtina nga nagatabon sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon lamhitan niya sang dugo ang mga sulosungay sa mga corner sa mga corner sang halaran nga sulunugan sang insenso didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sulod sang Tolda. Ang nabilin nga dugo sang baka iula niya sa idalom sang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog. Ini nga halaran ara dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda.
Dayon kuhaon niya ang tanan nga sapay sa kasudlan sang baka,
Kon ang isa ka tawo indi magsugid sa korte parte sa mga butang nga iya nakita ukon nahibaluan, may salabton siya.
Ihalad man dayon sang pari ang isa pa ka halad nga ginasunog, suno sa paagi sang paghalad sini. Paagi sa sining himuon sang pari, matubos ang tawo sa iya nga sala kag patawaron siya sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero kon indi siya makasarang maghalad sang duha ka pating ukon duha ka tukmo, maghalad na lang siya sang duha ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase. Kinahanglan nga indi niya ini pagbutangan sang mantika kag insenso kay halad ini sa pagpakatinlo, kag indi halad nga regalo kag indi halad nga regalo .
Dal-on niya ini sa pari kag buhinan ini sang pari sing isa ka hakop bilang pagdumdom sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang iya ginbuhin sunugon niya sa halaran upod sa iban pa nga mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga paagi sa kalayo.
Paagi sa sining himuon sang pari, matubos ang tawo sa bisan diin sadto nga mga sala nga iya nahimo kag patawaron siya sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ang nabilin nga halad nga harina iya na sang pari, pareho man sa ginahimo sa halad nga regalo.
Naghatag pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sang sini nga mga sugo kay Moises:
Kon naglapas ang isa ka tawo tungod kay wala niya mahatag ang butang nga para kuntani kuntani sa Ginoo Ginoo , bisan indi niya hungod, kinahanglan nga maghalad siya sang lalaki nga karnero nga wala sing deperensya bilang halad nga bayad sa iya nga sala. Ukon bayaran niya sang pilak
Kinahanglan nga bayaran niya ang wala niya mahatag para sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag dugangan pa gid niya sing 20 porsiyento sang bili sini. Dayon ihatag niya ini tanan tanan sa pari nga amo ang maghalad sang karnero bilang halad nga bayad sa sala, para matubos siya kag patawaron sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon ang isa ka tawo naglapas sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga wala niya mahibalui, nakasala siya kag may salabton siya sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon may ara nga nakatandog sang bisan ano nga butang nga ginakabig nga mahigko, pareho sang patay nga lawas sang mahigko nga mga sapat,
Kon nakatandog siya sang mahigko nga mga butang sang tawo
Kon ang isa ka tawo nagpanumpa nga pasapayan nga wala niya ginahunahuna, kag bisan maayo man ukon malain ang iya ginsumpa nga himuon, nakasala siya kon mahibaluan na niya ang iya ginhimo.
Kon nahibaluan sang tawo nga nakasala siya sa bisan diin sa sina nga mga butang, kinahanglan nga ituad niya ini.
Kag bilang bayad sa sala nga iya nahimo, maghalad siya sa Ginoo Ginoo sang isa ka babayi nga karnero ukon kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo. Ihalad ini sang pari para matubos siya sa iya nga sala.
Pero kon indi siya makasarang maghalad sang karnero ukon kanding, maghalad na lang siya sang duha ka pating ukon duha ka tukmo sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang bayad niya sa iya nga sala: ang isa halad sa pagpakatinlo kag ang isa halad nga ginasunog.
Dal-on niya ini sa pari kag unahon halad sang pari ang halad sa pagpakatinlo. Lubagon sang pari ang liog sini, pero indi lang niya pag-utdon.
Kag iwisik-wisik niya ang iban nga dugo sini sa kilid sang halaran, kag ang nabilin nga dugo iula niya sa idalom sang halaran. Halad ini sa pagpakatinlo.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises
Isuksok sang pari ang iya pangguwa nga bayo nga linen, pati ang iya pang-idalom nga panapton nga linen nga nagatabon sang iya kinatawo, kag kuhaon niya ang abo sang sini nga halad kag ibutang sa kilid sang halaran.
Pagkatapos ilisan niya ang iya bayo kag dal-on niya ang abo sa guwa sang kampo, sa lugar nga ginakabig nga matinlo.
Kinahanglan nga padayon ang pagdabdab sang kalayo sa halaran; indi gid ini pagpatyon. Kada aga gatungan ini sang pari, kag iplastar niya sing maayo sa kalayo ang halad nga ginasunog. Ilakip man niya sa pagsunog ang mga tambok sang sapat sang sapat nga ginahalad para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Kinahanglan nga padayon gid ang pagdabdab sang kalayo sa halaran; indi gid ini pagpatyon.
Ang mga pari nga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron amo ang magadala sini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa atubangan sang halaran.
Buhinan sang pari sing isa ka hakop ining halad nga harina nga may mantika, kag ang iya ginbuhin sunugon niya sa halaran lakip ang tanan nga insenso nga ginbutang didto sa harina. Sunugon niya ini bilang pagdumdom sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang kahamot sang sini nga halad makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang tanan nga lalaki nga kaliwat ni Aaron makakaon sang ila parte sa mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Para gid ina sa ila hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon, kag magapabilin ini nga pagsulundan hasta san-o. Ang nagauyat sini nga mga halad dapat balaan.
parte sa tawo nga naglapas sa luyag sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagpangdaya sa iya kapareho parte sa butang nga ginpatago ukon ginbilin sa iya, ukon pagkawat sa sini nga mga butang, ukon pagpanguwarta,
Maghalad siya sang duha ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase. Halad ini nga regalo nga dapat himuon hasta san-o. Ang katunga sini ihalad niya sa aga kag ang katunga sa sirom.
Ang ini nga harina mikslahon sa mantika kag lutuon sa sartin. Kag kon luto na, kon luto na, pihak-pihakon ini kag ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga regalo. Ang kahamot sini nga halad makapalipay sa iya.
Kag kinahanglan nga sunugon ini tanan, kay ini nga halad para sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag dapat nga tumanon hasta san-o. Dapat himuon ini sang kaliwat ni Aaron nga magabulos sa iya bilang pangulo nga pari.
Ang tanan nga halad nga regalo sang pari kinahanglan nga sunugon tanan; indi gid ini pagkaunon.
Ginsugo naman sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises
Ang halad sa pagpakatinlo kinahanglan nga ihawon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa lugar nga ginaihawan sang halad nga ginasunog. Ang halad sa pagpakatinlo balaan gid nga halad.
Ang pari nga maghalad sini kinahanglan nga magkaon sini sa ugsaran sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, nga isa ka balaan nga lugar.
Ang nagauyat sini nga halad dapat balaan. Ang bayo nga maagsikan sang dugo sang sini nga halad kinahanglan nga labhan sa balaan nga lugar didto sa Tolda didto sa Tolda .
Kinahanglan nga buk-on ang kolon nga ginpabukalan sang amo nga halad, pero kon ginpabukalan ini sa kaldero kiskisan ini nga kaldero kag hugasan sang tubig.
Makakaon sini nga halad ang tanan nga lalaki sa pamilya sang mga pari. Balaan gid ang ini nga halad.
ukon pagbutig parte sa butang nga nadula nga wala niya kuno nakita, ukon pagpanumpa sang indi matuod nga wala niya nahimo ang bisan diin sa sini nga mga sala.
Pero kon ang dugo sang sini nga halad gindala sa Balaan nga Lugar, didto sa sulod sang Tolda, para matubos ang sala sang isa ka tawo, sang isa ka tawo, indi gid pagkaunon ang ina nga halad kundi sunugon.
Kon mapamatud-an nga nakasala siya, kinahanglan nga iuli niya ang iya kinawat, ukon ang iya nakuha paagi sa pagpangdaya, ukon ang mga butang nga ginbilin ukon ginpatago sa iya, ukon ang mga butang nga nadula nga iya nakita,
ukon ang bisan ano nga mga butang nga suno sa iya pagpanumpa wala sa iya, pero ang matuod ara. Kinahanglan nga iuli niya ini sa tag-iya nga wala gid sing kulang, kag dugangan pa gid niya sang 20 porsiyento sang bili sini. Ihatag niya ini sa tag-iya sa adlaw nga maghalad siya sang halad nga bayad sa iya nga sala.
Magdala siya sa pari sang isa ka lalaki nga karnero nga wala sing deperensya, kag ihalad niya ini sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga bayad sa iya nga sala. Ukon bayaran niya sang pilak ang bili sang karnero suno sa kabug-aton sang pilak sa kilohan sang mga pari.
Paagi sa sining himuon sang pari sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , matubos ang tawo sa iya nga sala, kag patawaron siya sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo bisan diin man sa sadto nga mga sala nga iya nahimo.
Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan parte sa halad nga bayad sa sala, nga balaan gid nga halad:
Ang tanan nga halad nga regalo, nga ginmikslahan sang mantika ukon wala, iya na sang mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron kag partidahon nila ini sang palareho.
Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan parte sa halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon nga ginahalad sa Ginoo Ginoo :
Kon ang sapat nga sapat nga halad para sa maayo nga relasyon ihalad sang tawo bilang pagpasalamat sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo , parisan niya ini sang tinapay. Magdala siya sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok: tinapay nga madamol nga ginmikslahan sang mantika, tinapay nga manipis nga ginlamhitan sang mantika, kag tinapay nga hinimo halin sa maayo nga klase nga harina nga ginmikslahan sang mantika.
Kag dugang pa sa sini, magdala man siya sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok.
Maghalad siya sang kada klase sang sini nga mga tinapay bilang espesyal nga regalo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Mangin iya na ini sang pari nga nagawisik-wisik sang dugo sang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Kon ang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon ihalad niya bilang pagpasalamat sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang karne sini kinahanglan nga kaunon niya kag sang iya pamilya kag sang mga pari niya kag sang iya pamilya kag sang mga pari sa sina mismo nga adlaw sang paghalad; dapat wala gid sing may mabilin pagkasunod nga aga.
Pero kon ang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon ihalad niya bilang halad sa pagtuman sang isa ka panaad ukon halad nga kinabubut-on, ang karne sini kaunon sa sina mismo nga adlaw sang paghalad kag ang mabilin puwede pa nga kaunon sa sunod nga adlaw.
Kon may mabilin pa gid nga karne hasta sa ikatatlo nga adlaw, kinahanglan nga sunugon na ini.
Kon may magkaon sang karne sa ikatatlo nga adlaw, indi pagbatunon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ini nga halad kag mangin wala sing pulos ang iya ginhalad. Kabigon ini nga makangilil-ad kag may salabton ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sini.
Kon makasag-id ang karne sa bisan ano nga butang nga ginakabig nga mahigko, kinahanglan nga indi na ini pagkaunon kundi dapat sunugon. Kon parte sa halad nga halad nga karne nga puwede kaunon, nga puwede kaunon, ang bisan sin-o nga ginakabig nga matinlo
Ang halad nga bayad sa sala pagaihawon didto sa ginaihawan sang halad nga ginasunog. Kag ang dugo sini iwisik-wisik sa palibot sang halaran.
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga ginakabig nga mahigko
Kon may makatandog sang butang nga ginakabig nga mahigko, pareho sang mahigko nga mga butang sang tawo, mahigko nga sapat, ukon bisan ano nga mahigko nga butang nga makangilil-ad, kag dayon magkaon siya sang karne sang sini nga halad nga para sa Ginoo Ginoo , ina nga tawo indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises
Indi kamo magkaon sang tambok sang baka, karnero, ukon kanding.
Ang tambok sang sapat nga napatay lang ukon ginpatay sang iban nga sapat puwede ninyo gamiton sa bisan ano nga gusto ninyo, pero indi gid ninyo ini pagkaunon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sang tambok nga puwede ihalad
Kag bisan diin man kamo mag-estar, indi gid kamo magkaon sang dugo sang sapat pati sang dugo sang pispis.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sang dugo, indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Nagsugo pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises
Ang bisan sin-o nga maghalad sang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, kinahanglan nga maghatag siya sang parte sini para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga makadto sa mga pari nga makadto sa mga pari .
Ang tanan nga tambok sini ihalad: ang matambok nga ikog, ang mga sapay sa kasudlan,
Ini nga halad dal-on mismo sang manughalad para ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Dal-on niya ang tambok kag ang dughan sang sapat, kag bayawon niya ang dughan sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga ginabayaw.
Sunugon sang pari ang tambok sa halaran, pero ang dughan iya na ni Aaron kag sang iya mga kaliwat.
Ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang dughan kag ang paa sang inyo halad sa mga pari nga si Aaron kag ang iya mga kaliwat. Amo ini ang parte nga ila batunon halin sa inyo hasta san-o.
Amo ato ang parte sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ginhatag kay Aaron kag sa iya mga kaliwat sang adlaw nga ginhalad sila nga mag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang mga pari.
Sa sina nga adlaw nga gin-ordinahan sila, nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon nga ihatag gid nila atong parte sang mga pari nga para sa ila hasta san-o, kag tumanon nila ini hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Amo ato ang mga pagsulundan parte sa halad nga ginasunog, halad nga regalo, halad sa pagpakatinlo, halad nga bayad sa sala, halad nga para sa ordinasyon, kag halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Ina nga mga pagsulundan ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises didto sa kamingawan sa Bukid sang Sinai, sang tion nga nagsugo siya sa mga Israelinhon nga maghalad sa iya.
Ini tanan tanan sunugon sang pari sa halaran bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo
Makakaon sang nabilin nga mga parte sang sini nga halad ang tanan nga lalaki sa pamilya sang mga pari, pero kinahanglan nga kaunon nila ini didto sa balaan nga lugar, kay balaan gid ini.
Pareho lang ang pagsulundan parte sa halad sa pagpakatinlo kag sa halad nga bayad sa sala: ang karne sang sini nga mga halad iya na sang pari nga naghalad sini.
Ang panit sang sapat nga bilang halad nga ginasunog iya man sang pari nga naghalad sini.
Pareho man sa tanan nga halad nga regalo, nga ginluto sa pugon ukon ginluto sa kalaha ukon sa sartin, iya na man ini sang pari nga naghalad sini.
Ginkuha dayon ni Moises ang lana kag ginwisikan ang Tolda nga Simbahan kag ang tanan nga ara sa sulod sini. Sa sini nga paagi gindedikar ini nga mga butang sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginwisikan niya sang lana ang halaran sing makapito ka beses kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini, kag amo man ang labador kag ang tulungtungan sini. Ginhimo niya ini para idedikar ini nga mga butang sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon ginbubuan niya sang lana ang ulo ni Aaron sa pagdedikar sa iya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon gindala niya sa tunga ang mga anak ni Aaron nga lalaki kag ginpasuksok sa ila ang ila bayo bilang mga pari bilang mga pari kag ginwagkusan ini. Ginsuksok man nila ang ila mga kalo. Ginhimo ini ni Moises suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pagkatapos sini, ginpakuha ni Moises ang turo nga baka nga ihalad sa pagpakatinlo. Kag gintungtong ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak ang ila mga kamot sa ulo sang baka.
Gin-ihaw ni Moises ang baka kag nagkuha siya sang dugo sini. Gintum-oy niya ang iya tudlo sa dugo kag ginlamhitan ang mga sulosungay sang halaran sa pagtinlo sini. Dayon gin-ula niya ang nabilin nga dugo sa idalom sang halaran. Sa sini nga paagi gindedikar niya ang halaran sa Ginoo Ginoo para mangin takos ini nga gamiton sa pagtubos sang sala.
Ginkuha man ni Moises ang tanan nga sapay sa kasudlan sang sapat, ang gamay nga parte sang atay, ang mga batobato pati ang mga tambok sini, kag ginsunog niya ini tanan tanan sa halaran.
Ang mga nabilin nga parte sang baka pareho sang unod, panit, kag mga tinai, ginsunog niya sa guwa sang kampo. Ginhimo ini ni Moises suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pagkatapos ginpakuha ni Moises ang lalaki nga karnero bilang halad nga ginasunog, kag gintungtong ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak ang ila mga kamot sa ulo sang karnero.
Dayon gin-ihaw ni Moises ang karnero kag ginwisik-wisik ang dugo sini sa palibot sang halaran.
Ginpakuha man dayon ni Moises ang ikaduha nga lalaki nga karnero. Ini nga karnero halad nga para sa ordinasyon. Gintungtong ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak ang ila mga kamot sa ulo sang karnero.
Dayon gin-ihaw ni Moises ang karnero kag nagkuha siya sang dugo sini kag ginlamhit sa idalom nga parte sang tuo nga dulunggan ni Aaron, sa kumalagko sang iya tuo nga kamot, kag sa kumalagko sang iya tuo nga tiil.
Gindala man ni Moises sa tunga ang mga anak ni Aaron nga lalaki kag ginlamhitan man niya sang dugo ang idalom nga parte sang ila tuo nga dulunggan, ang kumalagko sang ila tuo nga kamot, kag ang kumalagko sang ila tuo nga tiil. Dayon ginwisik-wisik niya ang dugo sa palibot sang halaran.
Ginkuha niya ang mga tambok, ang matambok nga ikog, ang tanan nga sapay sa kasudlan, ang gamay nga parte sang atay, ang mga batobato pati ang mga tambok sini, kag ang tuo nga paa.
Dayon ginkuha ini ni Moises sa ila kag ginsunog sa halaran upod sang halad nga ginasunog. Halad ini nga para sa ila ordinasyon. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginkuha man ni Moises ang dughan sang karnero kag ginbayaw ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga ginabayaw. Amo ini ang iya parte sa karnero nga halad para sa ordinasyon. Ini tanan ginhimo ni Moises suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagkuha si Moises sang lana nga inughaplas kag sang dugo sa halaran kag ginwisikan niya si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak pati ang ila mga bayo. Sa sini nga paagi gindedikar niya sila kag ang ila mga bayo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling dayon si Moises kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak, “Lutua ninyo ang karne sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kag suno sa ginsugo ko sa inyo kauna ninyo ini diri upod sang mga tinapay sa alat nga halad para sa ordinasyon.
Kag sunuga ninyo ang mabilin nga karne kag tinapay.
Indi kamo maghalin diri sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, hasta matapos ang inyo ordinasyon.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo ang nagsugo sa aton sa paghimo sining ginahimo ta subong, para matubos kamo sa inyo mga sala.
Kinahanglan nga magpabilin kamo diri adlaw-gab-i sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, kag himuon gid ninyo ang ginapahimo sang Ginoo Ginoo para indi kamo mapatay, kay amo ina ang ginsugo sa akon sang Ginoo nga himuon ninyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon ninyo .”
Gani gintuman ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
Gintuman ni Moises ang ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag nagtipon ang komunidad didto sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Karon, ginhambalan sila ni Moises nga ining iya himuon amo ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya.
Gindala niya sa tunga si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak kag ginpapaligo niya sila.
Ginpasuksok niya kay Aaron ang iya sulul-ubon bilang pangulo nga pari: ang iya sulul-ubon bilang pangulo nga pari: ang pangsulod nga bayo, ang wagkos, ang pangguwa nga bayo,
Gintakod man ni Moises kay Aaron ang bulobulsa sa dughan kag ginsulod niya didto ang Urim kag Thumim.
Dayon ginpasuksok niya ang turban sa ulo ni Aaron, kag ginpatakod sa atubangan sang turban ang medalya nga bulawan nga simbolo nga simbolo nga ginpain si Aaron para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ginhimo ini tanan tanan ni Moises suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang ikawalo nga adlaw, matapos ang ordinasyon, matapos ang ordinasyon, ginpatawag ni Moises si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki, kag ang mga manugdumala sang Israel.
Ginsunog niya sa halaran ang mga tambok, ang mga batobato, kag ang gamay nga parte sang atay, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Ang karne kag ang panit sini ginsunog niya sa guwa sang kampo.
Dayon gin-ihaw man ni Aaron ang sapat nga bilang halad nga ginasunog. Ang dugo sini gindala sang iya mga anak sa iya, kag ginwisik-wisik niya ini sa palibot sang halaran.
Gindala man sang iya mga anak ang mga ginpanghiwa-hiwa nga mga parte sang sapat pati ang ulo sini, kag ginsunog niya ini sa halaran.
Ginhugasan niya ang mga parte sang sulod sang tiyan kag ang mga tiil, kag ginsunog niya ini sa halaran upod sang iban pa nga mga parte sang sapat.
Pagkatapos gindala niya sa tunga ang mga halad nga para sa mga tawo. Gin-ihaw niya ang kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo sang mga tawo pareho sang iya ginhimo sa nahauna nga halad.
Dayon gindala man niya sa tunga ang sapat para sa sapat para sa halad nga ginasunog, kag ginhalad niya ini suno sa paagi sang paghalad sini.
Gindala man niya sa tunga ang halad nga regalo. Nagkuha siya sang isa ka hakop sini kag ginsunog sa halaran dugang sa halad nga ginasunog, nga ginasunog kada aga.
Gin-ihaw man ni Aaron ang baka kag ang lalaki nga karnero para sa mga tawo bilang ila halad para sa maayo nga relasyon. Ang dugo sini gindala sang iya mga anak sa iya, kag ginwisik-wisik niya ini sa palibot sang halaran.
Ang mga tambok sang sini nga mga sapat—ang ila matambok nga mga ikog kag mga sapay sa kasudlan—pati ang mga batobato kag ang gamay nga parte sang mga atay
Nagsiling si Moises kay Aaron, “Magkuha ka sang isa ka bataon nga baka kag sang isa ka lalaki nga karnero nga pareho nga wala sing deperensya, kag ihalad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ang baka halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag ang karnero halad nga ginasunog.
gintungtong sang mga anak ni Aaron sa mga dughan sang mga sapat. Kag ginsunog ni Aaron ang mga tambok sa halaran.
Suno sa ginsugo ni Moises, ginbayaw ni Aaron ang mga dughan kag ang tuo nga paa sang sapat bilang halad nga ginabayaw sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pagkatapos halad ni Aaron sini tanan, ginbayaw niya ang iya mga kamot sa mga tawo kag ginbendisyunan sila, kag dayon nagpanaog siya halin sa halaran.
Hambalon mo dayon ang mga Israelinhon nga magkuha sila sang lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo. Kag magkuha man sila sang bataon nga baka kag karnero nga pareho nga isa ka tuig kag wala sing deperensya bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Magkuha man sila sang baka kag lalaki nga karnero bilang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Ihalad nila ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo upod sa halad nga regalo nga ginmikslahan sang mantika, kay subong nga adlaw magapahayag ang Ginoo Ginoo sang iya presensya sa inyo.”
Gani gindala sang bilog nga komunidad sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan ang tanan nga butang nga ginsugo sa ila ni Moises nga dal-on. Nagtipon sila tanan didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila sa ila , “Ginsugo kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon ninyo ining paghalad para ipakita niya ang iya gamhanan nga presensya sa inyo.”
Nagsiling dayon siya kay Aaron, “Magpalapit ka sa halaran kag ihalad ang imo halad sa pagpakatinlo kag halad nga ginasunog para matubos ka kag ang imo panimalay
Gani nagpalapit si Aaron sa halaran kag gin-ihaw niya ang bataon nga baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para sa iya kaugalingon.
Ang dugo sini gindala sang iya mga anak sa iya, kag gintum-oy niya ang iya tudlo sa dugo kag ginwisik-wisik ini sa mga sulosungay sang halaran. Ang nabilin nga dugo gin-ula niya sa idalom sang halaran.
Karon, si Nadab kag si Abihu nga mga anak ni Aaron nagkuha sang ila tagsa ka bulutangan sang insenso. Ginbutangan nila ini sang baga kag sang insenso kag ginhalad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pero ining ila ginhimo indi suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay ang kalayo nga ila gin-gamit indi amo ang dapat nila gamiton.
Dapat mahibaluan ninyo kon ano ang para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag ang para sa tanan, ang matinlo kag ang mahigko.
Kag kinahanglan nga tudluan ninyo ang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon sang tanan nga pagsulundan nga ginhatag ko sa inyo paagi kay Moises.”
Nagsiling si Moises kay Aaron kag sa iya duha ka anak nga nabilin nga si Eleazar kag si Itamar, “Kuhaa ninyo ang nabilin nga halad nga regalo halin sa mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
Kauna ninyo ini sa balaan lang nga lugar, kay amo ini ang inyo parte halin sa mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Amo ina ang ginsugo sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon.
“Ang dughan kag ang paa sang sapat nga ginbayaw kag ginhalad sa Ginoo Ginoo kaunon ninyo sang imo pamilya. Kaunon ninyo ini sa bisan diin nga lugar nga ginakabig ta nga matinlo. Ginhatag ini sa inyo bilang inyo parte halin sa mga halad sang mga Israelinhon nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Kon maghalad ang mga Israelinhon, ihalad nila ang dughan kag ang paa sang sapat upod ang mga tambok nga ihalad nila bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Ang dughan kag ang paa bayawon nila sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga ginabayaw. Amo ini ang parte ninyo sang imo mga kaliwat hasta san-o, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Sang nagpangusisa gid si Moises parte sa kanding nga halad sa pagpakatinlo,
Siling niya, “Ngaa bala wala ninyo pagkauna ang halad sa pagpakatinlo sa balaan nga lugar? Ang ini nga halad balaan gid kag ginhatag ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo para matubos ang komunidad sang Israel sang Israel sa ila mga sala sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Tungod nga ang dugo sini wala madala sa sulod sang Balaan nga Lugar, ginkaon kuntani ninyo ini didto sa Tolda, suno sa akon ginsugo sa inyo sa inyo .”
Nagsabat si Aaron kay Moises, “Naghalad kaina ang akon mga anak sang ila halad sa pagpakatinlo kag sang ila halad nga ginasunog sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
Gani nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang kalayo kag ginsunog sila hasta nga napatay sila sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan didto sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan .
Komporme si Moises sa sabat ni Aaron.
Wala nakasabat si Aaron.
Dayon ginpatawag ni Moises si Mishael kag si Elzafan, nga mga anak nga lalaki ni Uziel nga tiyo ni Aaron, kag ginsilingan sila, “Dali, kuhaa ninyo ang mga bangkay sang aton mga paryente sa balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda kag dal-a ninyo sa guwa sang kampo.”
Gani ginkuha nila ang mga bangkay, pero sa bayo lang sila nagauyat, kag gindala nila sa guwa sang kampo suno sa ginsugo ni Moises.
Dayon nagsiling si Moises kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga si Eleazar kag si Itamar, “Indi ninyo paggumuna ang inyo buhok ukon paggisia ang inyo mga bayo sa pagpakita nga nagapangasubo kamo sa napatay sa pagpakita nga nagapangasubo kamo sa napatay . Kon himuon ninyo ini, mapatay kamo kag mangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sang Israel . Ang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon, nga inyo mga paryente, amo ang magpangasubo para sa ila nga duha nga ginsunog sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi kamo anay maghalin sa puwertahan sang Tolda.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Aaron,
“Ikaw kag ang imo mga anak indi dapat magsulod sa Tolda nga nakainom sang bino ukon sang bisan ano nga ilimnon nga makahulubog. Kon himuon ninyo ini, mapatay kamo. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ninyo hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Ang bisan ano nga butang nga mahulugan sang ila patay nga lawas mangin mahigko, bisan butang man ini nga hinimo halin sa kahoy, tela, panit, ukon sako, kag bisan diin man ini ginagamit. Kinahanglan nga hugasan ini sa tubig,
Kon mahulugan ang banga sang ila patay nga lawas, ang tanan nga sa sulod sini mangin mahigko, kag kinahanglan nga buk-on ini.
Ang bisan ano nga kalan-on nga ginbutangan sang tubig nga halin sa sadto nga banga mangin mahigko. Kag mangin mahigko man ang tanan nga klase sang ilimnon nga dira sa sulod sang banga.
Ang bisan ano nga mahulugan sang ila patay nga lawas mangin mahigko. Kon ang mahulugan pugon ukon kolon, kabigon ninyo ini nga mahigko kag kinahanglan nga buk-on ini.
Ang tuburan ukon ang buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig nga mahulugan sang ila patay nga lawas magapabilin nga matinlo,
Magapabilin man nga matinlo ang bisan ano nga binhi nga inugtanom nga mahulugan sadto,
pero kon mahulugan ang binhi nga nahulom sa tubig, ini nga binhi mangin mahigko.
Kon napatay ang isa ka sapat nga puwede makaon, ang bisan sin-o nga magtandog sini kabigon nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magkuha ukon magkaon sang lawas sini dapat labhan niya ang iya bayo, pero kabigon pa siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt para mangin inyo Dios. Gani magkabuhi kamo nga balaan kay ako balaan.
Paagi sa sining pagsulundan parte sa tanan nga klase sang mga sapat,
mahibaluan ninyo kon diin sa ila ang matinlo kag ang mahigko, ang puwede kaunon kag ang indi puwede kaunon.
Ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises
Kon ang isa ka babayi nagbata sing lalaki, kabigon siya nga mahigko sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, subong nga ginakabig siya nga mahigko kon ara ang iya pamulanon.
Sa ikawalo nga adlaw pagatulion ang iya bata.
Tungod sa padayon nga pagpangguwa sang iya dugo, maghulat pa siya sang 33 ka adlaw antes siya kabigon nga matinlo. Indi siya puwede magtandog sang bisan ano nga butang nga para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag indi siya puwede magkadto sa balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda hasta nga makompleto ang mga inadlaw sang iya pagpakatinlo.
Kon babayi ang iya bata, kabigon siya nga mahigko sa sulod sang 14 ka adlaw, subong nga ginakabig siya nga mahigko kon ara ang iya pamulanon. Tungod sa padayon nga pagpangguwa sang iya dugo, maghulat pa siya sang 66 ka adlaw antes siya kabigon nga matinlo.
Kon tapos na ang mga inadlaw sang iya pagpakatinlo sa pagbata sang lalaki ukon babayi, magdala dayon siya sa pari didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sang isa ka tuig nga karnero bilang halad nga ginasunog kag isa ka tukmo ukon pating bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Naghatag ang Ginoo Ginoo sang sini nga mga pagsulundan kay Moises kag kay Aaron:
Kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari nagalamuti ang banog nga amo ang kabangdanan nga nagputi ang mga balahibo, kag ang unod kitaon na,
isa ini ka delikado nga balatian sa panit nga nagabalik-balik. Kag ipahibalo sang pari nga mahigko siya. Indi na kinahanglan nga painon pa siya kay klaro na nga mahigko siya.
Kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari naglapta ang balatian sa bilog nga lawas sang tawo,
kinahanglan nga tan-awon pa gid niya sing maayo ini nga tawo. Kag kon matuod nga naglapta ang balatian sa bilog niya nga lawas kag tungod sini nagputi ang tanan niya nga panit, ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo siya.
Pero kon nagkugan ining unod kag nagputi ang pinalian, magpatan-aw liwat liwat siya sa pari.
Kag kon matuod nga nagpali ini, ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo na siya.
Kon ang isa ka tawo may hubag nga nag-ayo,
pero sang ulihi nagpalamuti ini ukon nagpalamula, kinahanglan nga ipatan-aw niya ini sa pari.
Kon ang panit sang isa ka tawo nagabanog ukon nagaguros-guros ukon nagalamuti, nga tanda sang delikado nga balatian sa panit,
Kag kon nagdalom ang inpeksyon kag nagputi ang balahibo, ipahibalo sang pari nga mahigko ang ini nga tawo, kay may delikado siya nga balatian sa panit nga nag-umpisa sa hubag.
Pero kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari wala magputi ang balahibo kag wala magdalom ang inpeksyon, kag medyo pali na, painon siya sang pari sa mga tawo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Kon naglapta ini sa iban nga parte sang panit, ipahibalo sang pari nga mahigko siya, kay tanda ina sang delikado nga balatian sa panit sang delikado nga balatian sa panit .
Pero kon wala man ini maglapta, pinalian lang ini sang hubag, kag ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo siya.
Kon ang isa ka tawo may paso nga nainpeksyon kag nagpalamuti ini ukon nagpalamula,
kinahanglan nga ipatan-aw ini sa pari. Kag kon nagputi ang balahibo kag nagdalom ang inpeksyon, may delikado siya nga balatian sa panit nga nag-umpisa sa paso. Kag ipahibalo sang pari nga mahigko siya.
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, tan-awon liwat siya sang pari. Kag kon naglapta ini sa iban nga parte sang panit, ipahibalo sang pari nga mahigko siya, kay tanda ina sang delikado nga balatian sa panit.
Pero kon wala man ini maglapta kag medyo pali na, isa lang ini ka banog nga nag-umpisa sa paso. Kag ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo siya.
Kon ang isa ka tawo
Tan-awon sang pari ang iya panit, kag kon nagputi ang balahibo kag nagdalom ang inpeksyon, may delikado siya nga balatian sa panit. Kag ipahibalo dayon sang pari nga mahigko siya.
kinahanglan nga ipatan-aw niya ini sa pari. Kon nagdalom ang inpeksyon kag ang mga buhok ukon burangos naga-yellow kag nagalaka, ipahibalo sang pari nga mahigko ang ini nga tawo, kay may delikado siya nga katol nga nagatubo sa ulo ukon sa sag-ang.
Kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari wala magdalom ang inpeksyon pero wala na ini sang itom nga buhok ukon burangos, painon siya sang pari sa mga tawo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, tan-awon liwat sang pari ang katol. Kag kon wala ini maglapta kag wala magdalom ang inpeksyon, kag wala man mag-yellow ang buhok ukon burangos,
kinahanglan nga kiskisan niya ang iya buhok ukon barbasan ang iya burangos pero indi niya pag-ilakip ang parte nga may katol. Dayon painon liwat liwat siya sang pari sa sulod sang pito pa gid ka adlaw.
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, tan-awon liwat sang pari ang katol. Kag kon wala ini maglapta kag wala magdalom ang inpeksyon, ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo siya. Dayon labhan sang tawo ang iya bayo, kag kabigon siya nga matinlo.
Pero kon naglapta ang katol sa iya panit matapos nga ginpahibalo sang pari nga matinlo siya,
tan-awon liwat siya sang pari. Kag kon naglapta matuod ang katol sa iya panit, indi na kinahanglan nga tan-awon pa sang pari kon may buhok ukon burangos nga nag-yellow kay klaro na nga mahigko siya.
Pero kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari wala ini maglapta kag may itom na nga buhok ukon burangos nga nagatubo, ayo na ini. Kag ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo siya.
Kon may nagaputi-puti sa panit sang isa ka tawo,
kinahanglan nga ipatan-aw niya ini sa pari. Kag kon ang mga nagaputi-puti malapsi, guros-guros lang ini nga nagguluwa sa panit. Ini nga tawo kabigon nga matinlo.
Kon nagalamuti ang panit pero wala magdalom ang inpeksyon kag wala magputi ang balahibo, pagapainon siya sang pari sa mga tawo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Ang tawo nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit kinahanglan nga magsuksok sang gision nga bayo, gumunon niya ang iya buhok, kag tabunan niya ang idalom nga parte sang iya guya. Dayon magsinggit siya, “Mahigko ako! Mahigko ako!”
Kabigon siya nga mahigko samtang ara pa sa iya ang balatian. Kag kinahanglan nga mag-estar siya sa guwa sang kampo nga isahanon lang.
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, tan-awon liwat siya sang pari. Kag kon ang makita sa panit amo lang gihapon kag wala man ini maglapta, painon siya liwat sang pari sa mga tawo sa sulod sang pito pa gid ka adlaw.
Pero kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari wala man maglapta ang tagiptip,
magsugo siya nga labhan ang panapton ukon hugasan ang panit, kag painon niya ini sa sulod sang pito pa gid ka adlaw.
Pagkatapos tan-awon ini liwat sang pari. Kag kon ang tagiptip wala maglus-aw, kabigon ini nga panapton ukon panit nga mahigko bisan pa nga wala maglapta ang tagiptip. Gani kinahanglan nga sunugon ini bisan ara sa guwa ukon sa sulod sang panapton ang tagiptip.
Pero kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari naglus-aw ang tagiptip, gision niya ang parte sang panapton ukon panit nga gintagiptipan.
Pero kon magbalik liwat ang tagiptip kag maglapta, kinahanglan nga sunugon ang panapton ukon ang panit.
Kon nadula ang tagiptip pagkatapos nga ginlabhan ang panapton ukon panit, labhan ini liwat kag mangin matinlo na ini.
Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan kon paano mahibaluan nga matinlo ukon mahigko ang panapton nga delana ukon linen ukon ang bisan ano nga butang nga hinimo halin sa panit nga may tagiptip.
Sa ikapito naman nga adlaw, tan-awon liwat siya sang pari. Kag kon nagpali na ang ara sa iya panit kag wala maglapta, ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo siya kay guros-guros man lang ini. Pagkatapos sini, labhan sang tawo ang iya bayo,
Pero kon maglapta ang guros-guros sa iya panit sa tapos nga nakapatan-aw na siya sa pari kag ginpahibalo na sang pari nga matinlo siya, kinahanglan nga magpatan-aw liwat siya sa pari.
Kag kon matuod nga naglapta ang guros-guros, ipahibalo sang pari nga mahigko siya kay may delikado siya nga balatian sa panit.
Ang bisan sin-o nga may tanda sang delikado nga balatian sa panit kinahanglan nga dal-on sa pari.
Sa ikawalo nga adlaw, kinahanglan nga magdala siya sang duha ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki kag isa ka babayi nga karnero nga isa ka tuig, nga wala sing deperensya. Magdala man siya sang anom ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase nga ginmikslahan sang mantika bilang halad nga regalo. Kag magdala pa gid siya sang isa ka baso nga mantika.
Ang pari nga magadeklarar sa iya nga matinlo magadala sa iya kag sang iya mga halad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Kuhaon sang pari ang isa ka lalaki nga karnero kag ang isa ka baso nga lana, kag ihalad niya ini bilang halad nga bayad sa sala. Dayon bayawon niya ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga ginabayaw.
Ihawon niya ang karnero sa balaan nga lugar, didto sa ginaihawan sang halad sa pagpakatinlo kag halad nga ginasunog. Ining halad nga bayad sa sala iya na sang mga pari, pareho man sa halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Dayon magkuha ang pari sang dugo sang halad nga bayad sa sala kag ilamhit niya ini sa idalom nga parte sang tuo nga dulunggan sang tawo nga ginatinluan kag sa kumalagko sang iya tuo nga kamot kag tiil.
Magkuha man ang pari sang lana kag ibutang niya ini sa iya mismo wala nga palad,
kag ang isa niya ka tudlo sa tuo nga kamot itum-oy niya sa sini nga lana kag iwisik-wisik sing makapito ka beses didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang iban nga lana sa iya palad ilamhit niya sa mga parte sang lawas sang tawo nga ginlamhitan niya sang dugo sang halad nga bayad sa sala: ang sa idalom nga parte sang tuo nga dulunggan kag sa kumalagko sang iya tuo nga kamot kag tiil.
Pero kon imol ang amo nga tawo kag indi siya makasarang sa paghalad sang sini nga mga halad, magdala na lang siya sang isa ka lalaki nga karnero bilang halad nga bayad sa sala. Bayawon niya ini nga halad sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo para matubos siya sa iya nga sala. Magdala man siya sang duha ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase nga ginmikslahan sang mantika bilang halad nga regalo. Kag magdala pa gid siya sang isa ka baso nga lana.
Kag suno sa iya masarangan, magdala siya sang duha ka pating ukon duha ka tukmo; ang isa ihalad niya bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo kag ang isa bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Sa ikawalo nga adlaw, dal-on niya ini tanan nga halad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kag ihatag niya ini sa pari.
Kuhaon sang pari ang karnero nga halad nga bayad sa sala kag ang isa ka baso nga lana kag bayawon niya ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga ginabayaw.
Dayon ihawon niya ang karnero kag magkuha siya sang dugo sini kag ilamhit niya sa idalom nga parte sang tuo nga dulunggan sang tawo nga ginatinluan kag sa kumalagko sang iya tuo nga kamot kag tiil.
Dayon magbutang ang pari sang lana sa iya wala nga palad,
kag paagi sa iya tudlo sa tuo nga kamot, iwisik-wisik niya ang lana sing makapito ka beses didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
magguwa ang pari sa kampo kag tan-awon niya ang lawas sang ato nga tawo. Kon nag-ayo na siya sa iya balatian,
Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan parte sa pagpakatinlo sang tawo nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit kag kon ano ang iya himuon kon indi niya masarangan ang ginakinahanglan nga ihalad para sa pagpakatinlo.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron
parte sa ila himuon kon patubuon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang agup-op
Kon ang tag-iya sang isa ka balay nakatalupangod nga may agup-op ang iya balay, kinahanglan nga sugiran niya ang pari.
Kag antes magsulod ang pari sa sadto nga balay para tan-awon ang agup-op, magsugo siya nga ipaguwa ang tanan nga pagkabutang didto, kay basi pati ini makabig nga mahigko. Pagkatapos sini masulod ang pari sa balay
kag tan-awon niya ang agup-op sa dingding. Kag kon ang makita niya buloberde ukon mapula-pula nga nagaut-ot hasta sa sulod sang dingding,
maguwa dayon siya sa balay kag ipasara niya ini sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, tan-awon niya ini liwat. Kag kon ang agup-op naglapta sa iban nga parte sang dingding,
magpakuha ang pari sang duha ka matinlo
ipakuha niya ang mga parte sang dingding nga may agup-op kag ipahaboy sa guwa sang banwa, didto sa lugar nga ginahabuyan sang mga butang nga ginakabig nga mahigko.
Kag pakiskisan niya ang tanan nga parte sang dingding sa sulod sang balay kag ang tanan nga kiniskis ipahaboy niya sa guwa sang banwa, didto sa lugar nga ginahabuyan sang mga butang nga ginakabig nga mahigko.
Dayon pailisan niya ang mga parte sang dingding nga ginpanguha.
Pero kon pagkatapos sadto gin-agup-opan liwat ang balay,
kadtuan ini liwat sang pari kag tan-awon. Kon naglapta ang agup-op, kabigon ang ato nga balay nga mahigko, kay ang ini nga klase sang agup-op nagabalik-balik.
Gani gub-on ang ini nga balay kag ang mga materyales sini ihaboy sa guwa sang banwa, didto sa lugar nga ginahabuyan sang mga butang nga ginakabig nga mahigko.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magsulod sa sini nga balay sang ginsirado ini kabigon nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Kag ang bisan sin-o nga magtulog ukon magkaon sa sini nga balay kinahanglan nga labhan niya ang iya bayo.
Pero kon sa pagtan-aw sang pari wala man gin-agup-opan liwat ang balay pagkatapos nga gin-ilisan ang parte sang dingding nga gin-agup-opan, ipahibalo sang pari nga matinlo na ang balay kay nadula na ang agup-op.
Kag para makabig nga matinlo ang balay, magkuha ang pari sang duha ka pispis, kahoy nga sedro, pula nga higot, kag isopo.
Dayon ipaihaw sang pari ang isa ka pispis sa ibabaw sang kolon nga may tubig nga halin sa tuburan.
Ihawon niya ang isa ka pispis sa ibabaw sang kolon nga may tubig nga halin sa tuburan.
Dayon kuhaon niya ang kahoy nga sedro, ang pula nga higot, ang isopo, kag ang buhi nga pispis, kag itum-oy niya ini tanan tanan sa tubig nga may dugo sang pispis nga gin-ihaw. Kag ang tubig nga may dugo iwisik-wisik niya sing makapito ka beses sa balay.
Gani paagi sa dugo sang pispis, sa tubig nga halin sa tuburan, sa buhi nga pispis, sa kahoy nga sedro, sa isopo, kag sa pula nga higot, matinluan sang pari ang balay.
Dayon buy-an niya atong buhi nga pispis didto sa guwa sang banwa. Paagi sa sining himuon sang pari, makuha ang pagkahigko sang balay kag mangin matinlo na ini.
Kuhaon niya dayon ang isa pa ka buhi nga pispis, ang kahoy nga sedro, ang pula nga higot, kag ang isopo, kag itum-oy niya ini tanan tanan sa sadto nga tubig nga may tubig nga may dugo sang pispis nga gin-ihaw.
Kag ang tubig nga may tubig nga may dugo iwisik-wisik niya sing makapito ka beses sa tawo nga nag-ayo sa delikado nga balatian sa panit, kag ipahibalo niya nga matinlo na ang amo nga tawo. Dayon buy-an sang pari atong buhi nga pispis.
Pero antes siya kabigon nga matinlo na gid, labhan niya anay ang iya bayo, kiskisan niya ang tanan niya nga buhok kag balahibo, kag magpaligo siya. Puwede na siya makasulod sa kampo pero indi siya mag-estar sa iya nga tolda sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, kiskisan niya liwat ang tanan niya nga buhok kag balahibo, labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo.
Ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises kag si Aaron
Ang bisan sin-o nga matandog sang sini nga tawo nga wala pa makapanghugas sang iya kamot, kinahanglan nga labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo, pero kabigon pa siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Ang kolon nga matandog sang sini nga tawo kinahanglan nga buk-on, kag ang bisan ano nga butang nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga iya matandog kinahanglan nga hugasan.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki naguwaan sang semilya, kinahanglan nga magpaligo siya, pero kabigon pa siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Ang bisan ano nga panapton ukon butang nga hinimo halin sa panit nga natuluan sang semilya kinahanglan nga labhan, pero kabigon pa ini nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Kon maghulid ang lalaki kag babayi, kag maguwaan sang semilya ang lalaki, kinahanglan nga magpaligo sila nga duha, pero kabigon pa sila nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Kon ara ang pamulanon sang isa ka babayi, kabigon siya nga mahigko sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, kag ang bisan sin-o nga magtandog sa iya kabigon man nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Kon may nagaguwa sa kinatawo sang isa ka lalaki tungod sa iya balatian tungod sa iya balatian , inang nagaguwa sa iya ginakabig nga mahigko.
Ang bisan ano nga iya mahigdaan ukon mapungkuan nga ara ang iya pamulanon, mangin mahigko.
Kon maghulid ang lalaki sa babayi nga ara ang iya pamulanon, kabigon ang lalaki nga mahigko sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, kag ang bisan ano nga iya mahigdaan mangin mahigko man.
Kon ang isa ka babayi ginapangguwaan sang dugo sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw nga wala pa ang iya pamulanon ukon tapos na, kabigon siya nga mahigko, pareho man kon ara ang iya pamulanon. Kabigon siya nga mahigko samtang ginapangguwaan siya sang dugo.
Ang bisan ano nga iya mahigdaan ukon mapungkuan samtang ginapangguwaan pa siya sang dugo mangin mahigko, pareho man kon ara ang iya pamulanon.
Kag ang bisan sin-o nga makatandog sadto mangin mahigko. Kinahanglan nga labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo, pero kabigon pa siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Kag bisan nagapadayon ini sa pagtulo ukon wala, kabigon gihapon siya nga mahigko.
Ginhambalan sang Ginoo si Moises kag si Aaron nga Ginhambalan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises kag si Aaron nga paandaman gid ang mga Israelinhon parte sa mga butang nga makapahigko sa ila, para indi sila mapatay kon magkadto sila sa Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga ara sa tunga sang kampo.
Ang bisan ano nga iya mahigdaan ukon mapungkuan mangin mahigko.
Ang bisan sin-o nga maduplaan sang sini nga tawo, kinahanglan nga labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo, pero kabigon pa siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Pero ang kanding nga nagabutan para kay Azazel, ihalad niya ini nga buhi sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag dayon buy-an niya sa kamingawan, para matubos ang mga tawo sa ila mga sala.
Ihawon ni Aaron ang bataon nga baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para sa iya kaugalingon kag sa iya panimalay.
Dayon magkuha siya sang bulutangan sang insenso kag pun-on niya ini sang baga nga halin sa halaran didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , ibutang niya ang insenso sa kalayo, kag ang aso sini magalikop sa takop sang Kahon sang Kahon sang Kasuguan,
Magkuha siya sang dugo sang baka kag magtindog siya sa atubangan sang Kahon nga nagaatubang sa east. Kag paagi sa iya tudlo wisikan niya ang takop sini sing makapito ka beses.
Ihawon man niya ang kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para sa mga tawo. Dal-on niya ang dugo sini sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar kag iwisik ini sa takop sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan, pareho sa ginhimo niya sa dugo sang baka.
Paagi sa sining himuon ni Aaron, matinluan ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar tungod sa pagkahigko sang mga Israelinhon kag tungod sa tanan nila nga mga sala kag mga paglapas. Himuon man niya ini sa iban nga mga parte sang Tolda
Kinahanglan nga wala sing tawo nga magtiner sa Tolda halin sa oras nga magsulod si Aaron sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar hasta nga magguwa siya. Pagkatapos nga nahimo na niya didto didto ang seremonya para matubos siya kag ang iya panimalay kag ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel,
magguwa siya kag magkadto sa halaran sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon magkuha siya sang dugo sang baka kag sang kanding nga ginhalad nga ginhalad kag ilamhit niya ini sa mga sulosungay sang halaran sa pagtinlo sini.
Dayon isawsaw niya ang iya tudlo sa dugo kag wisikan sing makapito ka beses ang halaran sa pagdedikar sini sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sa pagtinlo sini tungod sa pagkahigko sang mga Israelinhon.
Pagkatapos nga nahimo ni Aaron ang pagtinlo sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar kag sang iban pa nga mga parte sang Tolda lakip na ang halaran, dal-on niya sa tunga ang buhi nga kanding.
Itungtong niya ang iya duha ka kamot sa ulo sang kanding kag ituad niya ang tanan nga sala kag paglapas sang mga Israelinhon. Sa sini nga paagi masaylo ang ila mga sala sa ulo sang kanding. Pabuy-an dayon ni Aaron ang kanding sa kamingawan sa tawo nga gintugyanan sini.
Gani dal-on sang kanding ang tanan nga sala sang mga Israelinhon kon buy-an na ini sang tawo sa kamingawan.
Dayon masulod si Aaron sa Tolda kag ubahon niya ang iya bayo bilang pangulo nga pari nga ginsuksok niya sang wala pa siya magsulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, kag ibilin niya ini didto.
Magpaligo siya sa isa ka balaan nga lugar didto sa Tolda didto sa Tolda kag pagkatapos isuksok niya ang iya ordinaryo nga bayo. Dayon magguwa siya kag ihalad niya ang duha ka halad nga ginasunog para matubos siya kag ang mga Israelinhon sa ila mga sala.
Sunugon man niya sa halaran ang mga tambok sang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Ang tawo nga gintugyanan sa pagbuhi sang kanding nga para kay Azazel kinahanglan nga labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo antes siya magbalik sa kampo.
Kinahanglan man nga dal-on sa guwa sang kampo kag sunugon ang nabilin nga parte sang baka kag kanding nga ang ila dugo gindala sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar sa pagtinlo sini.
Ang tawo nga magsunog sini kinahanglan man nga labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo antes siya magbalik sa kampo.
Amo ini ang himuon ni Aaron sa adlaw nga magsulod siya sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar: Magdala siya sang bataon nga baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo kag lalaki nga karnero bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Ang pari nga ginpili kag gin-ordinahan sa pagbulos sa iya amay bilang pangulo nga pari amo ang maghimo sang seremonya. Isuksok niya ang iya sulul-ubon bilang pangulo nga pari,
kag himuon niya ang seremonya sa pagtinlo sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, sa iban pa nga mga parte sang Tolda lakip na ang halaran, sa mga pari, kag sa bilog nga komunidad.
Kag natuman ini suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Kinahanglan nga magpaligo siya kag dayon isuksok niya ang iya sulul-ubon bilang pangulo nga pari nga puro linen: ang pang-idalom nga panapton nga nagatabon sang iya kinatawo, ang pangguwa nga bayo,
Maghatag sa iya ang komunidad sang Israel sing duha ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo kag isa ka lalaki nga karnero bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Ihalad ni Aaron ang bataon nga baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para matinluan siya kag ang iya panimalay.
Dayon kuhaon niya ang duha ka kanding kag dal-on man niya sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Kag gabot-gabutan niya kon diin sa duha ka kanding ang para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag ang para kay Azazel.
Ang kanding nga nagabutan para sa Ginoo Ginoo ihalad niya bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo nga magkaon sang dugo kontrahon sang Ginoo Ginoo kag indi na ninyo siya pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Kay ang kabuhi sang tagsa ka tinuga ara sa iya iya dugo kag ginsugo kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga gamiton ninyo ini para matubos kamo sa inyo mga sala, kay ang dugo nga amo ang nagahatag sang kabuhi, amo ang makatubos sa tawo sa iya mga sala.
Amo ini ang kabangdanan kon ngaa indi kamo dapat magkaon sang dugo.
Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo nga magdakop sang sapat ukon pispis nga puwede kaunon, kinahanglan nga paguwaon niya ang dugo sini kag tabunan sang duta,
tungod kay ang kabuhi sang tagsa ka tinuga ara sa iya dugo. Amo gani nga ginhambalan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi kamo magkaon sang dugo sang bisan ano nga tinuga; kag ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo nga magkaon sang sapat nga napatay lang ukon ginpatay sang iban nga sapat, kinahanglan nga labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo, pero kabigon pa siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Kon indi siya maglaba sang iya bayo kag indi siya magpaligo, may salabton siya.
nga ihambal ini kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga lalaki kag sa tanan nga Israelinhon:
Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo nga maghalad sang baka, karnero, ukon kanding sa iban nga lugar
Iwisik-wisik sang pari ang dugo sang sapat sa halaran nga para sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga ara dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda. Dayon sunugon niya ang mga tambok sang sapat; ang kahamot sini makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani indi na kamo dapat maghalad sa mga demonyo nga sa dagway sang kanding, kay ina makapahilayo sa inyo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dapat tumanon ninyo ini hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo nga maghalad sang bisan ano nga halad sa iban nga lugar sa iban nga lugar
kag indi sa puwertahan dampi sang Tolda, indi na ninyo siya pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa imo apo nga babayi, kay makahatag ini sang kahuy-anan sa imo.
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa anak nga babayi sang imo amay sa iban niya nga asawa, kay utod mo man siya.
Indi pagpakahuy-i ang utod nga lalaki sang imo amay paagi sa pagpakighilawas sa iya asawa, kay tiya mo man siya.
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa imo umagad nga babayi kay asawa siya sang imo anak.
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa imo bayaw nga babayi kay makahatag ini sang kahuy-anan sa imo utod.
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa anak ukon apo nga babayi sang babayi nga ginahuliran mo, kay mag-iloy ukon maglola sila, kag malaw-ay ina nga himuon.
Indi mo pagpangasaw-on ang utod nga babayi sang imo asawa samtang buhi pa ang imo asawa.
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa babayi nga ara ang iya pamulanon kay ginakabig siya nga mahigko.
Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa asawa sang iban, kay kon himuon mo ini kabigon ka nga mahigko.
Indi mo pag-ihatag ang imo anak para ihalad sa dios nga si dios nga si Molek, kay makahatag ina sang kahuy-anan sa akon nga akon nga imo Dios. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa imo kapareho nga lalaki, kay makangilil-ad ina.
Indi magpakighilawas ang lalaki ukon babayi sa sapat, kay mahigko kag malain gid ina.
Indi ninyo paghigkui ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa paghimo sang bisan diin sa sina nga mga butang, kay amo ina ang nakapahigko sa mga tawo nga ginapahalin ko sa duta nga para sa inyo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sang sina nga makangilil-ad nga mga butang indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Kinahanglan nga indi ninyo paghimuon ang mga ginahimo sang mga tawo sa Egypt nga sa diin nag-estar kamo sang una, kag ang mga ginahimo sang mga tawo sa Canaan nga sa diin pagadal-on ko kamo.
Gani tumana ninyo ang ginapatuman ko sa inyo kag indi gid ninyo pagsundon ang makangilil-ad nga ginahimo sang mga tawo nga una sa inyo, para indi ninyo mahigkuan ang inyo kaugalingon tungod sini. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Wala sing bisan sin-o sa inyo nga magpakigrelasyon sa iya malapit nga paryente. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ka magpakighilawas sa imo utod nga babayi, bisan utod mo lang siya sa imo amay ukon sa imo iloy, kag bisan nagdako siya sa inyo ukon wala.
Amo man sa talamnan sang ubas, indi na ninyo pagbalikon kag kuhaon ang mga bunga nga nabilin ukon ang mga nagkalahulog. Ibilin na lang ninyo ina sa mga imol kag sa mga pangayaw. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Indi kamo magpangawat, ukon magbutig, ukon magpangdaya sa inyo isigkatawo.
Indi kamo magpanumpa sang butig sa akon ngalan, kay kon himuon ninyo ina ginapakahuy-an ninyo ang ngalan sang inyo Dios. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ninyo pagpamintahaan ukon pagkawatan ang inyo isigkatawo. Indi na ninyo pagpabuwasan ang paghatag sang suweldo sang tawo nga ginpaobra ninyo.
Indi ninyo paghambali sang malain ang bungol, kag indi kamo magbutang sang makapasandad sa alagyan sang bulag. Himua ninyo ini sa pagpakita nga nagatahod kamo sa akon nga inyo Dios. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dapat husto kag matarong ang inyo nga paghukom sa korte; indi ninyo pagpaburan ang manggaranon ukon ang imol.
Indi kamo magkutsokutso sa inyo isigkatawo. Indi kamo maghimo sang bisan ano nga makaguba sang iya kabuhi. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ninyo pagdumti ang inyo isigkatawo. Sabdunga ninyo siya kon nakasala siya para wala kamo sing salabton.
Indi kamo magbalos ukon magdumot sa iban,
Tumana ninyo ang akon mga pagsulundan. Indi ninyo pagpakastahi ang isa ka sapat sa lain nga klase sang sapat. Indi kamo magtanom sang duha ka klase nga binhi sa isa ka talamnan. Indi kamo magsuksok sang bayo nga hinimo halin sa duha ka klase sang tela.
Magkabuhi kamo nga balaan kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, balaan.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakighilawas sa isa ka ulipon nga babayi nga kalaslon na sa iban nga lalaki, pero ining babayi wala pa matubos ukon mahatagan sing kahilwayan,
Kon mag-abot na kamo sa duta nga ihatag ko sa inyo, indi ninyo pagkaunon ang mga bunga sang mga kahoy nga inyo gintanom sa nahauna nga tatlo ka tuig. Kabigon ninyo ini nga mahigko.
Sa ikaapat nga tuig, ang tanan nga bunga ihalad ninyo bilang pagdayaw sa akon, gani indi man ninyo ini pagkaunon gani indi man ninyo ini pagkaunon .
Pero sa ikalima nga tuig makakaon na kamo sang mga bunga. Kag kon tumanon ninyo ini nga mga pagsulundan, mangin bugana ang mga bunga sang inyo mga kahoy. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Indi ninyo paghimuon ang ginahimo sang manugpakot ukon babaylan.
Kon magpangasubo kamo sa patay Kon magpangasubo kamo sa patay indi ninyo pag-utdan ang inyo buhok sa palibot sang inyo ulo ukon ang inyo burangos,
kag indi man ninyo pagpilasan ang inyo lawas. Kag indi man kamo magpapika. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ninyo pagpakahuy-i ang inyo mga anak nga babayi paagi sa pagpilit sa ila nga ibaligya ang ila lawas, kay makaimpluwensya ini sa inyo lugar kag magalapnag ang kalautan.
Kinahanglan nga tahuron ninyo ang inyo iloy kag amay, kag kinahanglan nga tumanon ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa inyo sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Tumana ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa inyo sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag tahura ninyo ang lugar nga ginasimbahan ninyo sa akon. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi kamo magdangop sa mga espiritista nga nagapakig-estorya sa kalag sang patay, kay kon himuon ninyo ini kabigon kamo nga mahigko. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Tahura ninyo ang mga tigulang, kag tahura man ninyo ako nga ako nga inyo Dios. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ninyo pagtrataron sing malain ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo.
Tratara ninyo sila nga daw kapareho ninyo, kag higugmaa ninyo sila pareho sang inyo paghigugma sa inyo kaugalingon, kay mga pangayaw man kamo sadto anay sa Egypt. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Indi kamo magdaya sa inyo pagkilo, pagtakos, ukon pagsukob.
Indi kamo magsimba sa mga dios-dios ukon maghimo sang mga imahen nila. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Kon maghalad kamo sa akon sang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, ihalad ninyo ini sa paagi nga mabaton ko para sa inyo.
Kaunon ninyo ang karne sini sa adlaw sang inyo paghalad ukon sa sunod nga adlaw. Pero kon may mabilin nga karne hasta sa ikatatlo nga adlaw kinahanglan nga sunugon na ini.
Kon kaunon ninyo ini sa ikatatlo nga adlaw, indi ko ini pagbatunon kay makangilil-ad na ini.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sini may salabton tungod kay ginabaliwala niya ang butang nga para sa akon; gani ina nga tawo indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Kon mag-ani kamo indi ninyo pag-ubuson ani ang ara sa higad sang inyo talamnan, kag indi na ninyo pagbalikon kag siputon ang mga nabilin.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakighilawas sa asawa sang iban, siya kag ang babayi kinahanglan nga patyon.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakighilawas sa isa sang mga asawa sang iya amay, ginpakahuy-an niya ang iya amay. Gani sila nga duha sang babayi kinahanglan nga patyon. Sila ang responsable sang ila kamatayon.
Kon ang amay magpakighilawas sa iya umagad nga babayi, sila nga duha kinahanglan nga patyon. Kay kalain ang ila ginhimo. Sila ang responsable sang ila kamatayon.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakighilawas sa iya kapareho nga lalaki, sila nga duha kinahanglan nga patyon kay makangilil-ad ang ila ginhimo. Sila ang responsable sang ila kamatayon.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakigrelasyon sa mag-iloy, kinahanglan nga sunugon sila nga tatlo, kay malain gid ang ila ginhimo. Indi dapat nga magpabilin ini nga kalainan sa inyo.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakigrelasyon kag maghulid sa iya utod nga babayi, bisan utod man niya ini sa iya amay ukon sa iya iloy, ginpakahuy-an niya ang iya utod gani may salabton siya. Kag tungod nga makahuluya ang ginhimo nila nga duha, indi na ninyo sila pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki maghulid sa babayi nga ara ang iya pamulanon, kag magsugot ang babayi, indi na ninyo sila nga duha pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakighilawas sa iya tiya, ginpakahuy-an niya ang iya tiya. Sila nga duha may salabton sa ila nga ginhimo.
Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo kag sa mga pangayaw nga nagaestar sa Israel nga maghalad sang iya anak sa dios nga si dios nga si Molek, kinahanglan nga batuhon siya sang pumuluyo hasta nga mapatay gid.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakighilawas sa asawa sang iya tiyo, ginpakahuy-an niya ang iya nga tiyo. Sila nga duha may salabton, kag mapatay lang sila nga wala sing bata.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpakigrelasyon sa asawa sang iya utod, ginpakahuy-an niya ang iya utod. Kag tungod kay mahigko ang ila ginhimo, mapatay lang sila nga wala sing bata.
Tumana ninyo ang tanan ko nga mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo para indi kamo pagpahalinon sa duta nga pagadal-an ko sa inyo nga inyo estaran.
Ang mga katawhan nga pahalinon ko sa sadto nga duta nagahimo sang sini nga mga kalautan, kag tungod sini ginakangil-aran ko sila. Gani indi ninyo pagsundon ang ila ginahimo.
Kag suno sa ginsiling ko sa inyo, mangin inyo ang ila nga duta. Ihatag ko sa inyo ining maayo kag mapatubason nga duta
Dapat nahibaluan ninyo kon ano ang matinlo kag ang mahigko nga mga sapat pati mga pispis. Indi ninyo paghigkui ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa pagkaon sang mahigko nga mga sapat nga gindumili ko sa inyo.
Magkabuhi kamo nga balaan kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , balaan. Ginseparar ko kamo sa iban nga mga katawhan nga mangin akon.
Kon may ara sa inyo sang espiritista nga nagapakig-estorya sa kalag sang patay, kinahanglan nga batuhon siya hasta nga mapatay gid. Siya ang responsable sang iya nga kamatayon.
ako mismo ang magakontra sa iya kag sa iya pamilya kag sa tanan nga nagsunod sa iya sa paghalad kay Molek. Indi ko sila pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Kontrahon ko man ang tawo nga magdangop kag magsunod sa mga espiritista nga nagapakig-estorya sa kalag sang patay. Indi ko sila pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Iseparar ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon para sa akon kag magkabuhi kamo nga balaan, tungod kay ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Tumana ninyo ang akon mga pagsulundan kay ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagaseparar sa inyo para sa akon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magpakamalaot sa iya amay ukon iloy kinahanglan nga patyon. Siya ang responsable sang iya kamatayon.
Indi ninyo paghigkuan ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa pagpartisipar sa lubong sang inyo kapareho nga Israelinhon,
Kon ang pangulo nga pari
Dapat indi niya paghigkuan ang iya kaugalingon paagi sa pagpalapit sa patay, bisan pa iya ini amay ukon iloy.
Kag tungod kay ginhalad siya sa akon bilang pangulo nga pari paagi sa paghaplas sa iya sang lana, indi siya dapat maghalin sa akon Balaan nga Tolda para magpartisipar sa lubong, nga Tolda para magpartisipar sa lubong, kay kon himuon niya ini mahigkuan ang Tolda. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa sini nga paagi indi makabig nga mahigko ang iya mga anak. Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagaseparar sa iya para sa akon.
Wala sing bisan sin-o sa imo mga kaliwat hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon nga makahalad sang mga halad, nga amo ang mga halad, nga amo ang akon pagkaon, kon may deperensya ang iya lawas.
Indi puwede ang bulag, lupog, may deperensya ang iya nawong, indi normal ang isa ka parte sang iya lawas,
may bali ang iya tiil ukon kamot,
luwas lang kon ang napatay malapit ninyo nga paryente pareho sang inyo iloy, amay, anak, utod nga lalaki,
buktot, inano, may balatian sa mata ukon sa panit, ukon indi makapabata.
Ginhambal ini tanan ni Moises kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga lalaki, kag sa tanan nga Israelinhon.
ukon utod nga babayi nga wala pa sing bana kag nagadepende pa sa inyo.
Indi man ninyo paghigkuan ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa pagpartisipar sa lubong sang paryente sang inyo asawa.
Kon magpangasubo kamo sa patay, Kon magpangasubo kamo sa patay, indi ninyo pagkiskisan ang bisan diin nga parte sang inyo ulo ukon utdan ang inyo burangos, ukon pilasan ang inyo lawas.
Kinahanglan nga iseparar ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon para sa akon nga inyo Dios, kag indi ninyo pagpakahuy-an ang akon ngalan. Himuon ninyo ini tungod nga kamo ang nagahalad sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo,
Kinahanglan nga indi kamo magpangasawa sang babayi nga mahigko tungod kay nagabaligya siya sang iya lawas, ukon sang babayi nga ginbulagan sang iya bana, tungod nga ginseparar kamo para sa akon.
Kinahanglan nga kabigon kamo sang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon nga balaan kay kamo ang nagahalad sang mga halad, nga amo ang mga halad, nga amo ang akon pagkaon. Huo, Huo, dapat gid nga kabigon nila kamo nga balaan kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , balaan, kag ginahimo ko ang akon katawhan nga balaan.
Kon may anak kamo nga babayi nga nagapakahuya sa inyo tungod kay nagabaligya siya sang iya lawas, kag tungod sini ginakabig siya nga mahigko, kinahanglan nga sunugon siya.
Kamo lang nga mga pari kag ang inyo panimalay ang makakaon sang parte sang mga halad nga para sa inyo. Indi puwede magkaon sini ang inyo bisita ukon ang inyo sinuhulan nga trabahador.
Pero puwede nga magkaon ang ulipon nga ginbakal ninyo ukon natawo sa inyo panimalay.
Indi man makakaon sini ang anak nga babayi sang pari nga nakapamana sang indi pari.
Tandaan gid ninyo nga kamo lang nga mga pari kag ang inyo panimalay ang makakaon sang parte sang mga halad nga para sa inyo.
Pero kon ang isa ka tawo nga indi miyembro sang inyo panimalay nakakaon sini nga indi niya hungod, kinahanglan nga ulian niya ini sa inyo kag dugangan pa gid niya sang 20 porsiyento sang bili sini.
Kamo nga mga pari, indi ninyo pag-ibaliwala ang mga halad sang mga Israelinhon para sa akon,
agod nga sa pagkaon ninyo sini indi kamo makasala kag wala kamo sing salabton. Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagaseparar sa inyo para sa akon.
Kon ang halad nga ginasunog ihalad ninyo bilang halad sa pagtuman sang isa ka panaad ukon halad nga kinabubut-on,
kinahanglan nga lalaki ini nga baka, karnero, ukon kanding nga wala sing deperensya para batunon ko.
Indi ninyo pagpakahuy-an ang akon balaan nga ngalan, gani tahura ninyo ang mga halad nga ginahalad sang mga Israelinhon sa akon. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi kamo maghalad sing may deperensya kay indi ko gid ini pagbatunon.
Kon ang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon ihalad ninyo sa akon bilang halad sa pagtuman sang isa ka panaad ukon halad nga kinabubut-on, kinahanglan nga baka ini ukon karnero ukon kanding nga wala sing deperensya para batunon ko.
Indi kamo maghalad sa akon sang sapat nga bulag, nabalian, napilasan, ukon may balatian sa panit. Indi gid ninyo ini pag-ihalad sa akon sa halaran bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo.
Pero puwede ninyo ihalad bilang halad nga kinabubut-on ang baka ukon karnero ukon kanding nga indi normal ang isa ka parte sang iya lawas, pero indi ini puwede nga ihalad bilang halad sa pagtuman sang isa ka panaad.
Indi kamo maghalad sa akon sang sapat nga may deperensya ang iya itlog, ukon ginkapon. Indi gid ninyo ini paghimuon sa inyo lugar.
Kag indi man kamo magbakal sang sina nga klase sang mga sapat halin sa mga taga-iban nga lugar kag ihalad sa akon bilang akon pagkaon, kay indi ko ina pagbatunon.
Indi ninyo pag-ihalad sing dungan ang baka ukon karnero ukon kanding kag ang iya bata sa isa lang ka adlaw.
Kon maghalad kamo sang halad sa pagpasalamat sa akon, sundon ninyo ang husto nga pamaagi sa paghalad sini para batunon ko.
Kon may ara sa inyo ukon sa inyo ukon sa inyo mga kaliwat sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon nga magtandog sang halad nga para sa akon bisan mahigko siya,
Kag kinahanglan nga kaunon ninyo ini sa sina mismo nga adlaw sang paghalad kag indi gid ninyo pagbilinan hasta sa masunod nga aga. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Tumana ninyo ang akon mga sugo. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ninyo pagpakahuy-an ang akon balaan nga ngalan, kag kilalahon ninyo ako nga balaan. Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagaseparar sa inyo para sa akon,
kag ako amo ang nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt para mangin inyo Dios. Huo, Huo, ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi kamo dapat magkaon sang bisan ano nga karne sang sapat nga napatay lang ukon ginpatay sang iban nga sapat, kay kon himuon ninyo ini kabigon kamo nga mahigko. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi ninyo pag-ibaliwala ang akon ginapatuman sa inyo. Kinahanglan nga tumanon gid ninyo ini para indi kamo magkasala kag magkalamatay. Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagaseparar sa inyo para sa akon.
Sa sina man nga adlaw, maghalad man kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang karnero nga isa ka tuig nga wala sing deperensya bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Lakipan ninyo ini sang halad nga regalo nga apat ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase kag ginmikslahan sang mantika, kag halad nga ilimnon nga isa ka litro nga bino. Halad ini nga paagi sa kalayo, kag ang kahamot sini makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon wala pa ninyo mahalad ina, indi gid kamo dapat magkaon sang bisan ano nga klase sang pagkaon halin sa inyo bag-o nga inani, hilaw man ini ukon sinanlag ukon ginluto nga tinapay. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ninyo hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon, bisan diin kamo mag-estar.
Parisan ninyo ini sang pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga tag-isa ka tuig, isa ka bataon nga baka, kag duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, nga ang kada isa sa ila wala sing deperensya. Ihalad ninyo ini bilang halad nga ginasunog upod sa halad nga regalo kag pati sa halad nga ilimnon. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon maghalad man kamo sang isa ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag duha ka karnero nga tag-isa ka tuig bilang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
nga ihambal sa mga Israelinhon ang ini nga mga pagsulundan parte sa natalana nga mga piesta, nga magatilipon sila sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo :
Bayawon sang pari sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo ang duha ka karnero kag ang halad nga halin sa nahauna nga patubas. Balaan ini nga mga halad para sa Ginoo Ginoo kay parte ini sang mga pari.
Sa amo man nga adlaw indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ninyo hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon, bisan diin kamo mag-estar.
Kon mag-ani kamo, indi ninyo pag-ubusa ani ang ara sa higad sang inyo talamnan, kag indi ninyo pagbalikon kag siputon ang mga nabilin. Ibilin na lang ninyo ina sa mga imol kag sa mga pangayaw.
Indi kamo mag-obra sa sina nga adlaw kundi maghalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo.
Ang indi magpuasa sa sina nga adlaw indi na ninyo pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
May anom kamo ka adlaw sa pag-obra, pero sa ikapito nga adlaw magpahuway kamo kay amo ina ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Indi kamo mag-obra sa sina nga adlaw kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba, kay adlaw ina nga padunggan ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Patyon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang bisan sin-o nga mag-obra sa sina nga adlaw.
Sa nahauna nga adlaw indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw maghalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Kag sa ikawalo nga adlaw
Amo ina ang natalana nga mga piesta nga magatilipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sa paghalad sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Dapat magdala kamo sang Dapat magdala kamo sang mga halad nga ginasunog, halad nga regalo, halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon nga para sa maayo nga relasyon , kag mga halad nga ilimnon, nga ginakinahanglan nga ihalad ninyo sa mga tion sang paghalad sini.
Saulugon ninyo ina nga mga piesta Saulugon ninyo ina nga mga piesta dugang sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon ninyo kada semana. Kag ihalad ninyo ini nga mga halad dugang sa inyo mga regalo, sa inyo mga halad sa pagtuman sang mga panaad, kag sa inyo mga halad nga kinabubut-on nga inyo ginahalad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon parte liwat liwat sa Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag, saulugon ninyo ini sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo umpisa sa ika-15 nga adlaw sang ikapito nga bulan, pagkatapos sang tig-alani. Saulugon ninyo ini sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw; indi kamo mag-obra sa nahauna nga adlaw kag sa ikawalo nga adlaw.
Amo ini ang natalana nga mga piesta nga magatilipon ang mga Israelinhon sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa nahauna nga adlaw, magkuha kamo sang pinakamaayo nga mga bunga sang mga kahoy, mga paklang sang palma, mga sanga sang madabong nga mga kahoy, kag mga kahoy-kahoy sa ililigan sang tubig, kag magkinalipay kamo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Amo ato ang parte sa natalana nga mga piesta para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ginpahibalo ni Moises sa mga Israelinhon.
Ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel ginahiwat sa gab-i sang ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan.
Kag sa ika-15 nga adlaw sang amo gihapon nga bulan, magaumpisa naman ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok. Pito ka adlaw ini nga piesta, kag sa sina nga mga inadlaw ang tinapay nga kaunon ninyo kinahanglan wala sing inugpahabok.
Sa nahauna nga adlaw sang sini nga piesta, indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw maghalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo.
kag ginpriso nila siya hasta nga mahibaluan nila kon ano ang kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo sa amo nga tawo.
Karon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
“Dal-a sa guwa sang kampo ang ato nga tawo nga nag-insulto sa akon. Ang tanan nga nakabati sang iya pag-insulto magtungtong sang ila kamot sa iya ulo sa pagpamatuod nga may salabton siya sa pagpamatuod nga may salabton siya , kag dayon batuhon siya sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sang Israel .
“Ang bisan sin-o nga makapatay sang tawo, kinahanglan nga patyon man.
Kag ang tawo nga makapatay sang sapat sang iban kinahanglan nga ilisan niya ini sang buhi tungod kay buhi man ato nga sapat, kag dapat buhi man ang ibayad.
Ang bisan sin-o nga makapatay sang sapat kinahanglan nga ilisan niya ini, pero ang makapatay sang tawo kinahanglan nga patyon man.
Ang ini nga kasuguan para sa inyo tanan, tumandok man kamo nga mga Israelinhon nga mga Israelinhon ukon mga pangayaw. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
Pagkatapos nga nahambal ini ni Moises sa mga Israelinhon, gindala nila ang tawo nga nag-insulto sa Dios sa guwa sang kampo kag ginbato, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Maghimo kamo sang dose ka bilog nga tinapay, nga ang kada isa hinimo halin sa apat ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase.
Ibutang ninyo ini sa lamisa nga puro bulawan nga bulawan nga didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sampawon ninyo ini sa duha ka sampaw nga ang kada isa may anom ka tinapay.
Butangan ninyo dayon sang puro nga insenso sa tupad sang kada sinampaw. Ang insenso amo ang magaserbi nga halad sa pagdumdom sa Ginoo Ginoo . Sunugon ini bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo sa baylo sang mga tinapay.
Dapat magbutang gid permi sang sini nga mga tinapay sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway bilang kasugtanan nga tumanon sang mga Israelinhon hasta san-o.
Ini nga mga tinapay para kay Aaron kag sa iya mga kaliwat. Kaunon nila ini sa balaan nga lugar didto sa Tolda didto sa Tolda , tungod kay balaan gid ini nga parte sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Kag para gid ina sa ila hasta san-o.
Sang didto si Moises sa Bukid sang Sinai, ginsugo siya sang Ginoo Ginoo
Kabigon ninyo ang ika-50 nga tuig nga pinasahi nga tuig, kay tion ini sang paghilway sa mga ulipon para makabalik na sila sa ila pamilya kag sa pag-uli sa tag-iya sang iya mga duta nga iya ginbaligya.
Sa sini nga tuig, ang tanan nga pagkabutang nga ginbaligya sa inyo ibalik ninyo sa tag-iya.
Gani kon magbaligya kamo ukon magbakal sang duta sa inyo kasimanwa, indi kamo magdinayaay.
Kinahanglan nga ang bili sang duta suno sa kadamuon sang mga tinuig nga makapatubas ini sa wala pa ang sunod nga Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli.
Kon madamo pa ang mga tinuig antes mag-abot ang Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli, pataasan ninyo ang presyo sang duta, pero kon gamay na lang, panubuan ninyo. Kay ang matuod, ang ginabakal indi ang duta mismo kundi ang kadamuon sang mapatubas sang duta.
Indi kamo magdinayaay kundi tahura ninyo ako, kay ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Kon mag-abot na kamo sa duta nga ihatag ko sa inyo, indi ninyo pagtamnan ang duta kada ikapito nga tuig para mapadunggan ninyo ako.
Indi kamo magkabalaka kon ano ang inyo kaunon sa ikapito nga tuig nga indi kamo makatanom ukon makaani.
Kay bendisyunan ko ang inyo duta sa ikaanom nga tuig para magpatubas ini sang madamo nga kalan-on nga para sa tatlo ka tuig.
Gani samtang nagatanom kamo sa ikawalo nga tuig, ang inyo kaunon amo pa ang inyo inani sang ikaanom nga tuig, kag madamo pa ang inyo kalan-on hasta sa tig-alani sa ikasiyam nga tuig.
Indi dapat ibaligya ang duta nga indi na mabawi pa, kay ang ini nga duta akon; ginapaestaran kag ginapaagsahan ko lang ini sa inyo.
Gani tugutan ninyo nga mabawi pa sang tag-iya ang iya duta sa inyo. Himuon ninyo ini sa tanan nga duta nga inyo ginbakal.
Kon nag-imol ang kapareho ninyo nga Israelinhon, kag tungod sini ginbaligya niya ang iya duta, ang iya pinakamalapit nga paryente amo ang maggawad sang iya ginbaligya.
Pero kon wala siya sing paryente nga maggawad sini para sa iya, puwede niya gihapon ini mabawi kon may ikasarang na siya sa paggawad sini.
Kon matabo ini bayaran niya ang nagbakal sang iya duta sang kantidad nga suno sa mapatubas sang duta hasta sa pag-abot sang Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli, dayon puwede na niya mabawi ang iya duta.
Pero kon kulang pa ang iya inuggawad, magapabilin ini sa nagbakal hasta sa pag-abot sang Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli. Sa sina nga tuig, mabawi na niya ang iya duta nga wala sing bayad nga wala sing bayad .
Kon ang isa ka tawo magbaligya sang iya balay nga ara sa banwa nga napalibutan sang pader, magawad pa niya ini sa sulod sang isa ka tuig halin sang tion sang iya pagbaligya.
Pero kon indi niya ini magawad sa sulod sang isa ka tuig, ang amo nga balay mangin iya na sang nagbakal kag sang iya mga kaliwat hasta san-o. Indi na ini mabawi sang tag-iya sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli.
Pero ang mga balay sa mga baryo nga wala sing pader pagakabigon nga pareho sang mga uma, nga puwede magawad kag mabawi sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Levi puwede nga makagawad bisan san-o sang ila mga balay nga ara sa mga banwa nga ginapanag-iyahan nila.
Kon indi nila ini magawad, iuli ini sa ila sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli. Kay ang mga balay dira sa ila mga banwa ila ina nga parte halin sa ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon.
Ang mga palahalban nga ara dampi sa ila mga banwa kinahanglan nga indi pag-ibaligya, kay ila ina nga pagkabutang hasta san-o.
Kon nag-imol ang kapareho ninyo nga Israelinhon kag indi na siya makasarang nga magsuporta sa iya kaugalingon, buligan ninyo siya pareho sang pagbulig ninyo sa mga pangayaw nga temporaryo ukon permanente nga nagaestar upod sa inyo, para makapadayon siya sa pag-estar upod sa inyo.
Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt para ihatag ko sa inyo ang duta sang Canaan kag para mangin Dios ninyo ako.
Kon nag-imol ang kapareho ninyo nga Israelinhon, kag tungod sini ginbaligya niya ang iya kaugalingon sa inyo bilang ulipon, indi ninyo siya pagpaobrahon pareho sang isa ka ordinaryo lang nga ulipon.
Kabigon ninyo siya nga isa ka sinuhulan nga trabahador ukon isa ka bisita nga nagaestar lang sa inyo. Magaobra siya sa inyo hasta sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli.
Sa sina nga tuig, hilway na siya kag ang iya mga anak, kag makabalik na sila sa ila mga kaparyentihan kag mangin ila liwat ang mga pagkabutang sang ila mga katigulangan.
Mga ulipon ko kamo, kamo nga mga Israelinhon nga ginpaguwa ko sa Egypt. Gani indi dapat nga ibaligya ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon nga ulipon hasta san-o hasta san-o .
Indi ninyo pagpintasan ang kapareho ninyo nga Israelinhon nga ulipon ninyo. Himua ninyo ina sa pagpakita nga nagatahod kamo sa akon nga akon nga inyo Dios.
Kon gusto ninyo nga may mga ulipon kamo, magbakal kamo sa mga nasyon sa palibot ninyo.
Puwede man ninyo baklon ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo ukon ang mga miyembro sang ila panimalay nga natawo sa inyo lugar. Ang mga ulipon nga nabakal ninyo sa ila mangin pagkabutang na ninyo,
kag puwede ninyo sila ipanubli sa inyo mga anak para magserbisyo sa ila samtang buhi sila. Pero indi gid ninyo pagpintasan ang kapareho ninyo nga Israelinhon nga ulipon ninyo.
Kon ang isa ka imol nga Israelinhon nagbaligya sang iya kaugalingon bilang ulipon bilang ulipon sa isa ka pangayaw nga manggaranon nga nagaestar upod sa inyo ukon sa iya sini paryente,
ang ina nga Israelinhon puwede pa nga magawad. Puwede siya nga gawaron sang iya utod,
tiyo, pakaisa, ukon sang bisan sin-o sa malapit niya nga mga paryente. Puwede man nga siya mismo ang maggawad sang iya kaugalingon kon may ikasarang na siya.
Kag indi man ninyo pag-anihon ang mga uhay ukon pagduguson ang mga bunga sang mga ubas nga nagatubo lang.
Kinahanglan nga kabigon siya sang nagbakal sa iya nga daw isa ka sinuhulan nga trabahador kag indi niya siya pagpintasan.
Kon indi siya magawad sa sini nga mga paagi, mahilway gihapon siya kag ang iya mga anak sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli.
Gani indi kamo magpaulipon sa inyo isigkatawo hasta san-o, Gani indi kamo magpaulipon sa inyo isigkatawo hasta san-o, kay mga ulipon ko kamo, kamo nga ginpaguwa ko sa Egypt. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Pero puwede kamo magpanguha sini para lang kaunon ninyo sang inyo mga suluguon, sang inyo mga trabahador, sang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo,
sang inyo mga kasapatan, kag sang talunon nga mga sapat sa inyo duta.
Indi kamo maghimo sang mga dios-dios pareho sang mga imahen, handumanan nga bato, ukon bato nga may larawan, para simbahon, kay ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Tungod nga mangin bugana gid ang inyo mga patubas, Tungod nga mangin bugana gid ang inyo mga patubas, ang inyo pagakaunon amo pa ang nagligad ninyo nga mga patubas hasta nga maabtan pa ini kag mailisan sang bag-o naman nga patubas.
Magapuyo ako upod sa inyo kag indi ko kamo pag-isikway.
Magaupod ako sa inyo kag ako padayon nga mangin Dios ninyo kag kamo padayon nga mangin katawhan ko.
Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt para indi na kamo mangin mga ulipon sang mga Egyptohanon. Ginhilway ko na kamo, gani wala na kamo sing dapat nga ikahuya.
amo ini ang akon himuon sa inyo: Mataranta kamo sa kahadlok tungod kay padal-an ko kamo sang makamamatay nga mga balatian kag hilanat nga makaguba sang inyo mga mata kag mga lawas. Magatanom kamo, pero indi ninyo ini mapuslan kay salakayon kamo sang inyo mga kaaway kag kaunon nila ang inyo mga patubas.
Kontrahon ko kamo para mapierdi kamo sang inyo mga kaaway kag dumalahan nila kamo. Tungod sa kakulba magapalalagyo kamo bisan wala sing may nagalagas sa inyo.
Kag kon indi gihapon kamo magpamati sa akon, silutan ko kamo sing pito ka pilo.
Dulaon ko ang ginapabugal ninyo nga gahom. Indi ko gid pagpaulanon, gani magatig-a gid ang inyo mga duta.
Tumana ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa inyo sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kag tahura ninyo ang lugar nga ginasimbahan ninyo sa akon. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Mangin wala gid sing pulos ang inyo pagpangabudlay, kay ang inyo mga duta indi magpatubas kag ang inyo mga kahoy indi magpamunga.
Kon padayon pa gid kamo nga magsupak sa akon kag indi kamo magpamati sa akon, dugangan ko pa gid liwat sing pito ka pilo ang inyo silot.
Padal-an ko kamo sang mapintas nga mga sapat kag pamatyon nila ang inyo mga bata kag mga kasapatan, kag tungod sini diutay na lang ang mabilin sa inyo sa bagay nga daw wala na sing may nagalakat sa inyo mga dalan.
Kon indi gihapon kamo magpamati sa akon kundi padayon pa gid kamo nga magsupak sa akon,
ako gid mismo ang magakontra sa inyo kag silutan ko kamo sing pito pa gid ka pilo.
Ipasalakay ko kamo sa inyo mga kaaway sa pagsilot sa inyo tungod sang inyo paglapas sa aton kasugtanan. Bisan magpanago pa kamo sa inyo mga banwa padal-an ko gihapon kamo sang mga kahalitan, kag tungod sini mapilitan kamo nga magsurender sa inyo kaaway.
Kulangon ang inyo pagkaon, gani isa lang ka pugon ang gamiton sang napulo ka babayi sa pagluto sang tinapay, kag tunga-tungaon pa nila ini sa inyo. Makakaon kamo matuod pero indi kamo mabusog.
sa akon kaakig kontrahon ko kamo kag silutan sing pito pa gid ka pilo.
Pagutuman ko kamo Pagutuman ko kamo kag mapilitan kamo sa pagkaon sang inyo kaugalingon nga mga anak.
Kon tumanon ninyo ang akon mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo,
Panggub-on ko ang inyo mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar pati ang mga halaran sini nga sulunugan sang insenso. Kag ihaboy ko ang inyo mga bangkay sa ibabaw sang inyo patay nga mga dios-dios, kag isikway ko kamo.
Gub-on ko ang inyo mga banwa kag mga simbahan, kag indi ako malipay sa kahamot sang inyo mga halad.
Gub-on ko ang inyo lugar, kag ang inyo mga kaaway nga magasakop sini matingala gid sa pagkaguba sini sa pagkaguba sini .
Padal-an ko kamo sang gira nga magaguba sang inyo mga banwa. Laptahon ko kamo sa iban nga mga nasyon, kag mangin mamingaw ang inyo duta.
Magakalamatay kamo sa lugar sang inyo mga kaaway.
Kag ang mabilin sa inyo amat-amat nga mapatay tungod sang inyo mga sala kag sang mga sala sang inyo mga katigulangan.
padal-an ko kamo sang ulan sa husto nga panahon para ang duta makapatubas kag ang mga kahoy makapamunga.
tumanon ko ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo mga katigulangan nga si sa inyo mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob kag ibalik ko kamo sa inyo duta.
Pero kinahanglan nga pahalinon ko anay kamo sa inyo duta bilang bayad ninyo sa inyo mga sala, tungod sang inyo pagsikway sang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan. Kag makapahuway ang duta samtang wala kamo.
Pero bisan ginasilutan ko kamo, indi ko kamo pag-isikway sa lugar sang inyo mga kaaway; indi ko kamo paglaglagon nga wala na sing may mabilin sa inyo. Kay indi mahimo nga dulaon ko ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo, tungod kay ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Tumanon ko sa inyo ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo mga katigulangan nga ginpaguwa ko sa Egypt sa pagpakita sang akon gahom sa mga nasyon. Ginhimo ko ini sa inyo mga katigulangan Ginhimo ko ini sa inyo mga katigulangan para mangin Dios nila ako. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ato ang nagkalain-lain nga sugo kag pagsulundan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon didto sa Bukid sang Sinai paagi kay Moises.
Mangin bugana gid kaayo ang inyo mga patubas nga bisan pa gani Mangin bugana gid kaayo ang inyo mga patubas nga bisan pa gani ang inyo paglinas sang mga uhay magapadayon hasta sa tighalarvest sang mga ubas, kag ang inyo pagpangharvest sang ubas magapadayon hasta sa inyo tigpalanggas. Gani makapagusto kamo sang inyo nga pagkaon kag magakabuhi pa kamo nga malinong sa inyo lugar.
Paluntaron ko ang kalinong sa inyo lugar, gani makatulog kamo nga wala sing may ginakahadlukan. Pangtabugon ko ang mapintas nga mga sapat sa inyo lugar, kag wala sing mga kaaway nga makasalakay sa inyo.
Kamo ang magasalakay sa inyo mga kaaway kag pamatyon ninyo sila.
Ang 5 sa inyo makapierdi sang 100 kag ang 100 sa inyo makapierdi sang 10,000.
Ipakita ko ang akon kaayo sa inyo kag hatagan ko kamo sang madamo nga kaliwat para matuman ko ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo.
Kinahanglan nga indi na niya ini pagbayluhan sang isa pa ka sapat, bisan pa nga mas maayo ang iya ibaylo. Kon himuon niya ini, ang sapat nga iya ginpanaad kag ang sapat nga iya ginbaylo pareho nga mangin iya na sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon ang iya ginpanaad mahigko nga sapat, nga indi puwede ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo , dal-on niya ang sapat sa pari.
Tan-awon ini sang pari kon maayo ukon indi, kag dayon hatagan niya ini sang bili
Kon bawion sang tag-iya ang sapat, kinahanglan nga bayaran niya ang bili sang sapat kag dugangan pa gid niya sing 20 porsiyento sang bili sini.
Kon ginhalad sang tawo ang iya balay sa Ginoo Ginoo , tan-awon sang pari ang amo nga balay kon bala maayo pa ini ukon indi, kag dayon hatagan niya ini sang bili nga indi na puwede ilisan.
Kon bawion sang tag-iya ang iya balay, kinahanglan nga bayaran niya ang bili sang balay kag dugangan pa gid niya sing 20 porsiyento sang bili sini. Kag ang balay ibalik sa iya.
Kon ginhalad sang tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo ang parte sang iya duta nga ginpanubli niya sa iya katigulangan, hatagan ini sang pari sang pari sang bili nga suno sa kadamuon sang binhi nga sarang mapanggas
Kon ihalad niya ang iya uma pagkatapos lang gid sang Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli, ang bili sini amo lang gihapon.
Pero kon sa ulihi pa niya ini ihalad, hatagan ini sang pari sang bili nga mas manubo, suno sa kadamuon sang tinuig nga nabilin hasta sa sunod naman nga Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli.
Kon bawion sang tag-iya ang iya uma, kinahanglan nga bayaran niya ang bili sang uma kag dugangan pa gid niya sang 20 porsiyento sang bili sini. Kag ibalik sa iya ang iya uma.
Kon ang isa ka tawo ginhalad sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang pagtuman sa isa ka panaad, ina nga tawo puwede pa mahilway sa sina nga panaad
Pero kon ginbaligya niya ang uma nga wala pa niya magawad, indi na gid niya ini mabawi pa.
Kag sa pag-abot sang Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli, iya na ini sang Ginoo Ginoo kag indi na gid ini mabawi; mangin pagkabutang na ini sang mga pari.
Kon ginhalad sang tawo ang uma nga iya ginbakal,
hatagan ini sang pari sang bili nga suno sa kadamuon sang mga tinuig nga nabilin hasta sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli. Kinahanglan nga gawaron ini dayon sang tawo. Ang iya ibayad sa paggawad iya na sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli ang amo nga uma iuli sa tag-iya nga nagbaligya sini.
Ang tanan nga bili sang sining mga ginhalad sa Ginoo sang sining mga ginhalad sa Ginoo Ginoo kinahanglan nga suno sa kabug-aton sang pilak sa kilohan sang mga pari.
Ang kamagulangan nga sapat iya na sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani indi na kinahanglan nga ihalad ini sa iya.
Kon ini nga sapat mahigko, puwede ini gawaron sang tag-iya. Bayaran niya ang bili sang sapat kag dugangan pa gid niya sang 20 porsiyento sang bili sini. Pero kon indi niya paggawaron, ibaligya ini sang mga pari sang mga pari suno sa bili sini.
Wala sing bisan ano nga butang nga ginhalad sing bug-os
Ang tawo nga ginhalad sing bug-os sa Ginoo Ginoo
Ang ikanapulo nga parte sang tanan nga patubas iya na sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon gawaron sang tawo ang ikanapulo sang iya patubas sang iya patubas , kinahanglan nga bayaran niya ang bili sini kag dugangan pa gid niya sing 20 porsiyento sang bili sini.
Kon mag-isip kamo sang inyo mga baka, karnero, ukon kanding, ang isa sa pulo sini ihatag ninyo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag kinahanglan nga indi ninyo ini pagpilion ukon pagbayluhan. Kon bayluhan ninyo ini, ang ini nga sapat kag ang sapat nga ginbaylo pareho nga mangin iya na sang Ginoo Ginoo kag indi na puwede gawaron.
Amo ato ang mga sugo nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises didto sa Bukid sang Sinai para sa mga Israelinhon.
Kon imol ang nakapanaad kag indi siya makasarang magbayad sang amo nga kantidad, dal-on niya sa pari ang tawo nga ginpanaad niya nga ihalad sa Ginoo nga ginpanaad niya nga ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ang pari amo ang maghatag sang bili suno sa masarangan nga ibayad sang tawo.
Kon ang iya ginpanaad sapat nga puwede ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo , ina nga sapat mangin iya na sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang nahauna nga adlaw, sang ikaduha nga bulan, sang ikaduha nga tuig halin sang pagguwa sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt, nagpakig-estorya ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan didto sa kamingawan sang Sinai. Siling niya:
Amo ato sila ang mga pangulo sang mga tribo nga ginpili halin sa komunidad sang Israel.
Ginlista sila ni Moises didto sa kamingawan sang Sinai, suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
I-census ninyo ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel suno sa ila mga pamilya. Ilista ninyo ang mga ngalan sang tanan nga lalaki
nga nagaedad sing 20 ka tuig paibabaw nga puwede magsoldado. Kamo ni Aaron ang magdumala sa pag-census.
Magabulig sa inyo ang pangulo sang kada tribo.
Ang kabug-usan nga kadamuon nila, 603,550 tanan.
Pero wala malakip diri ang mga kaliwat ni Levi.
Kay nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
“Indi pag-ilakip ang tribo ni Levi sa pag-census upod sa iban nga mga Israelinhon nga magaserbisyo sa tion sang inaway nga magaserbisyo sa tion sang inaway .
Sa baylo, ihatag sa ila ang responsibilidad sa pagdumala sang Tolda nga Simbahan nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan, kag sang tanan nga kagamitan sini. Sila ang magdala sang Tolda kag sang tanan nga kagamitan sini, kag kinahanglan nga atipanon nila ini kag magkampo sila sa palibot sini.
Kon sayluhon na gani ang Tolda, sila ang maghimos sini, kag kon patindugon naman ini, sila man gihapon ang magpatindog sini. Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sang sini nga mga buluhaton sa Tolda, nga indi kaliwat ni Levi, pagapatyon.
Magakampo ang mga Israelinhon suno sa ila tribo, kag ang kada tribo may bandera.
Pero ang mga kaliwat ni Levi magakampo sa palibot sang Tolda nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan, para indi ako mangakig sa komunidad sang Israel. Ang mga kaliwat ni Levi amo ang responsable sa pag-atipan sa Tolda.”
Ginhimo ini tanan sang mga Israelinhon suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
151,450 tanan ang kadamuon sang sini nga grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Reuben. Ini sila amo ang ikaduha nga grupo kon maglakat ang mga Israelinhon.
“Sunod sa ila amo ang tribo ni Levi nga nagadala sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Ang tanan nga tribo magalakat sang pasunod pareho sang ila posisyon kon magkampo sila, nga ara sa idalom sang ila tagsa ka bandera.
“Magkampo ang kada tribo sang Israel sa idalom sang bandera sang ila tagsa ka tribo. Ang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan iplastar sa tunga sang kampo.
108,100 tanan ang kadamuon sang sini nga grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Efraim. Ini sila nagasunod sa tribo ni Levi kon maglakat ang mga Israelinhon.
157,600 tanan ang kadamuon sang sini nga grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Dan. Ini sila ang katapusan nga grupo kon maglakat ang mga Israelinhon. Magalakat sila tanan ang mga Israelinhon. Magalakat sila tanan sa idalom sang ila bandera.”
Ang kabug-usan nga kadamuon sang mga Israelinhon nga nalista suno sa ila tribo, 603,550 tanan.
Pero wala malakip diri ang mga kaliwat ni Levi, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Gani ginhimo sang mga Israelinhon ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises: ang tagsa ka tribo nagkampo kag nagpanglakaton sa idalom sang ila tagsa ka bandera suno sa ila tribo kag pamilya.
186,400 tanan ang kadamuon sang sini nga grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Juda. Ini sila amo ang sa unahan kon maglakat ang mga Israelinhon.
Amo ini ang estorya parte sa mga kaliwat ni Aaron kag ni Moises sang tion nga nagpakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises didto sa Bukid sang Sinai.
Si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak amo ang pilion mo nga mag-alagad bilang mga pari. Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sang buluhaton sang pari sa Tolda nga Simbahan nga indi kaliwat ni Levi dapat patyon.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
“Ginpili ko ang mga kaliwat ni Levi bilang bulos sa mga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang Israel. Ang tagsa ka kaliwat ni Levi akon,
kay ang tagsa ka kamagulangan nga lalaki akon. Sang ginpamatay ko ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang mga Egyptohanon, ginseparar ko para sa akon ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang Israel, tawo man ukon sapat. Gani akon sila. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises didto sa kamingawan sang Sinai,
“Isipa ang mga kaliwat nga lalaki ni Levi halin sa isa ka bulan paibabaw, suno sa ila pamilya.”
Gani gin-isip sila ni Moises, suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ini ang mga anak ni Levi: si Gershon, si Kohat, kag si Merari.
Ang mga anak ni Gershon amo si Libni kag si Shimei.
Ang mga anak ni Kohat amo sila ni Amram, Izhar, Hebron, kag Uziel.
Ang mga anak ni Aaron amo sila ni Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, kag Itamar. Si Nadab ang kamagulangan.
Sila ang mga kaliwat ni Levi, suno sa ila mga pamilya.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Gershon amo ang mga pamilya nila ni Libni kag Shimei.
Ang kadamuon sang tanan nila nga lalaki nga nagaedad halin sa isa ka bulan paibabaw 7,500.
Ang lugar nga ila ginakampuhan ara sa likod sang Tolda nga Simbahan sa west.
Ang ila pangulo amo si Eliasaf nga anak ni Lael.
Sila ang gintugyanan sa pag-atipan sang sini nga mga kagamitan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan: ang mga tabon, ang kurtina sang puwertahan sang Tolda,
ang mga kurtina sang ugsaran nga nagapalibot sa Tolda kag sa halaran, pati ang kurtina sang puwertahan sang ugsaran, kag ang mga higot. Sila ang responsable sa tanan nga buluhaton nga may kaangtanan sa sini nga mga kagamitan.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Kohat amo ang mga pamilya nila ni Amram, Izhar, Hebron, kag Uziel.
Ang kadamuon sang tanan nila nila nga lalaki nga nagaedad halin sa isa ka bulan paibabaw 8,600.
Ang lugar nga ila ginakampuhan ara sa south sang Tolda.
Ginpili sila kag gin-ordinahan sa pag-alagad bilang mga pari.
Kag ang ila pangulo amo si Elizafan nga anak ni Uziel.
Sila ang responsable sa pag-atipan sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan , sang lamisa, sang bulutangan sang suga, sang mga halaran, sang mga kagamitan nga ginagamit sang mga pari sa ila pag-alagad, kag sang kurtina sa sulod sang Tolda sa sulod sang Tolda . Sila ang responsable sa tanan nga buluhaton nga may kaangtanan sa sini nga mga kagamitan.
Ang pangulo sang mga kaliwat ni Levi amo si Eleazar nga anak ni Aaron nga pari. Siya ang ginpili nga magdumala sa mga gintugyanan sa pag-atipan sang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Merari amo ang mga pamilya nila ni Mali kag kay Mushi.
Ang kadamuon sang tanan nila nga lalaki nga nagaedad halin sa isa ka bulan paibabaw 6,200.
Ang ila pangulo amo si Zuriel nga anak ni Abihail. Ang lugar nga ila ginakampuhan ara sa north sang Tolda nga Simbahan.
Sila ang gintugyanan sa pag-atipan sang mga tapi nga dingding sang Tolda, sang mga pangbalabag sini, sang mga haligi, kag sang mga pundasyon. Sila ang responsable sa tanan nga buluhaton nga may kaangtanan sa sini nga mga kagamitan.
Sila man ang gintugyanan sa pag-atipan sang mga haligi sa palibot sang ugsaran kag sang mga pundasyon sini, sang mga palpal kag mga higot.
Ang lugar nga ginakampuhan ni Moises kag ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak ara sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, sa east. Sila ang gintugyanan sa pagdumala sang mga buluhaton sa balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda para sa mga Israelinhon. Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sang buluhaton sang pari sa Tolda nga indi kaliwat ni Levi dapat patyon.
Ang kabug-usan nga kadamuon sang mga lalaki nga mga kaliwat ni Levi nga nagaedad halin sa isa ka bulan paibabaw 22,000 tanan. Si Moises kag si Aaron ang nag-isip sa ila, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
Pero si Nadab kag si Abihu napatay sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sang naggamit sila sang kalayo nga indi amo ang dapat nila gamiton sa ila paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo didto sa kamingawan sang Sinai. Napatay sila nga wala sing mga anak, gani si Eleazar kag si Itamar lang ang nag-alagad bilang mga pari sang buhi pa si Aaron.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Isipa kag listaha ang mga ngalan sang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang mga Israelinhon nga nagaedad halin sa isa ka bulan paibabaw.
Idedikar ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa akon sa baylo sang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang mga Israelinhon. Idedikar man sa akon ang mga kasapatan sang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa baylo sang tanan nga kamagulangan nga kasapatan sang mga Israelinhon. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
“Idedikar ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa akon sa baylo sang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang mga Israelinhon. Idedikar man sa akon ang mga kasapatan sang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa baylo sang kamagulangan nga kamagulangan nga mga kasapatan sang mga Israelinhon. Akon ang mga kaliwat ni Levi. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Tungod kay sobra sing 273 ang kamagulangan nga lalaki sang mga Israelinhon sa mga kaliwat ni Levi, kinahanglan nga tubuson sila.
Ang ibayad sa pagtubos sa kada isa sa ila lima ka bilog nga pilak suno sa kabug-aton sang pilak sa kilohan sang mga pari.
Ihatag mo kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga lalaki ang kuwarta nga inugtubos sa sobra nga mga kamagulangan.”
Gani ginkolekta ni Moises ang kuwarta nga inugtubos sa kamagulangan nga mga anak sang mga Israelinhon nga sobra sa kadamuon sang mga kaliwat ni Levi.
Ang iya nakolekta 1,365 ka bilog nga pilak, suno sa kabug-aton sang pilak sa kilohan sang mga pari.
Kag ginhatag niya ini kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Ipatawag ang tribo ni Levi kag dal-a sila kay Aaron nga pari sa pagbulig sa iya.
Mag-alagad sila kay Aaron kag sa bilog nga komunidad paagi sa pag-asikaso sang mga buluhaton sa Tolda nga Simbahan, nga ginatawag man nga nga ginatawag man nga Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Sila man ang mag-atipan sa tanan nga kagamitan sa Tolda, kag mag-alagad sa Tolda para sa mga Israelinhon.
Itugyan ang mga kaliwat ni Levi kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak nga lalaki para magbulig sa ila.
Putson pa gid nila ini tanan sang maayo nga klase sang panit kag ihigot sa tukon nga pangtuwang.
“Tabunan man nila sang tela nga asol ang bulawan nga halaran kag tabunan pa gid sang maayo nga klase sang panit, kag igulo dayon nila ang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sini.
Kag ang iban pa nga mga kagamitan nga ginagamit sa pag-alagad sa balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda putson man sang tela nga asol kag sang maayo nga klase sang panit kag ihigot sa tukon nga pangtuwang.
“Kinahanglan kuhaon ang abo sa halaran, kag ang halaran tabunan sang tela nga granate.
Kag ibutang nila sa halaran ang tanan nga kagamitan sini: ang mga bulutangan sang baga, ang mga dako nga dako nga tinidor para sa karne, ang mga pala, kag ang mga yahong. Tabunan nila ini sang maayo nga klase sang panit kag igulo dayon nila ang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sini.
“Amo ato ang mga kagamitan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan nga dal-on sang mga kaliwat ni Kohat.
Si Eleazar nga anak ni Aaron nga pari amo ang responsable sa lana para sa suga, sa insenso, sa adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga regalo, kag sa lana nga inughaplas. Siya ang magdumala sa bilog nga Tolda kag sa tanan nga kagamitan sini.”
“Indi ninyo pagpabay-i nga madula ang mga kaliwat ni Kohat sa lahi ni Levi.
Amo ini ang inyo himuon para indi sila mapatay kon magpalapit sila sa labing balaan nga mga butang: Updan sila ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak kon magsulod sila sa Tolda sa Tolda kag hambalan nila sila kon ano ang ila dapat himuon kag kon ano ang ila dal-on.
“I-census ninyo ang mga kaliwat ni Kohat nga sakop sang tribo ni Levi, suno sa ila mga pamilya.
Kay kon indi sila pag-updan, indi gid sila magsulod sa pagtan-aw sang balaan nga mga butang bisan dali lang, para indi sila mapatay.”
“I-census man ang mga kaliwat ni Gershon suno sa ila pamilya.
Isipa ang tanan nga tanan nga lalaki nga nagaedad halin sa 30 hasta sa 50 ka tuig nga sarang makaalagad sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
“Ang buluhaton sang mga kaliwat ni Gershon amo ang pagdala sang mga masunod:
ang mga kurtina sang Tolda nga Simbahan ( nga ginatawag man nga nga ginatawag man nga Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan), ang tanan nga tabon sini kag mga kurtina sa puwertahan,
ang mga kurtina sa ugsaran nga nagapalibot sa Tolda kag halaran, ang kurtina sa puwertahan sang ugsaran, ang mga higot, kag ang tanan nga kagamitan nga ginagamit sa pag-alagad sa Tolda sa Tolda . Sila ang maghimo sang tanan nga buluhaton nga may kaangtanan sa sini nga mga kagamitan.
Si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak amo ang magadumala sa mga kaliwat ni Gershon parte sa ila mga buluhaton, magdala man sang mga kagamitan ukon maghimo sang iban nga mga buluhaton. Kamo ni Aaron ang magsiling kon ano ang ila dal-on.
Amo ini ang buluhaton sang mga kaliwat ni Gershon sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Panguluhan sila ni Itamar nga anak ni Aaron nga pari.
“I-census mo man ang mga kaliwat ni Merari suno sa ila mga pamilya.
Isipa ang tanan nga lalaki nga nagaedad halin sa 30 hasta sa 50 ka tuig nga sarang makaalagad sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Isipa ang tanan nga lalaki nga lalaki nga nagaedad halin sa 30 hasta sa 50 ka tuig nga sarang makaalagad sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Amo ini ang ila buluhaton sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan: sila ang magdala sang mga tapi nga dingding sang Tolda, sang mga pangbalabag sini, sang mga haligi, kag sang mga pundasyon.
Sila man ang magdala sang mga haligi nga ginatakdan sang mga kurtina nga ginatakdan sang mga kurtina sang ugsaran nga nagapalibot sa Tolda sa Tolda . Kag sila man ang magdala sang mga pundasyon sini, sang mga palpal, kag sang mga higot. Sila ang maghimo sang tanan nga buluhaton nga may kaangtanan sa sini nga mga kagamitan. Kamo ni Aaron ang magsiling sa kada isa sa ila kon ano ang ila dal-on.
Amo ini ang buluhaton sang mga kaliwat ni Merari sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Panguluhan sila ni Itamar nga anak ni Aaron nga pari.”
“Ang buluhaton sang mga kaliwat ni Kohat sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan amo ang pag-atipan sang labing balaan nga mga butang.
Gani suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, gin-isip ang kada isa sa ila kag ginhatagan sang iya buluhaton kag ginhambalan kon ano ang iya dal-on.
Kon maghalin kamo sa inyo ginakampuhan, si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki magsulod sa Tolda kag kuhaon nila ang kurtina sa sulod kag itabon sa Kahon sang Kasuguan.
Dayon tabunan pa gid nila ini sang maayo nga klase sang panit
“Hapinan nila sang tela nga asol ang lamisa nga ginabutangan sang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios; kag ibutang dayon nila sa lamisa ang mga pinggan, mga tasa,
Pagkatapos tabunan nila ini sang tela nga pula, kag tabunan pa gid dayon sang maayo nga klase sang panit, kag igulo dayon ang mga tukon nga pangtuwang sini.
“Ang bulutangan sang suga putson nila sang tela nga asol, pati ang mga suga sini, ang mga kimpit, ang mga inugsalod sa mga upos nga pabilo sang suga, kag mga tibod nga suludlan sang lana sang suga.
Huo, mangin iya na sang mga pari ining balaan nga mga halad.”
“Ihambal ini sa mga Israelinhon: Halimbawa ang isa ka lalaki nagasuspetso nga Halimbawa ang isa ka lalaki nagasuspetso nga ang iya asawa nagluib kag nangin indi matutom sa iya,
kay sa banta niya naghulid ini sa isa ka lalaki. Pero wala niya ini makita kag wala siya sang prueba. Kag wala sing may magtestigo kontra sa mahigko nga buhat sang iya asawa, kay wala sing may nakakita sa iya sa akto.
“Dal-on sang pari ang babayi sa akon presensya,
kag dayon magbutang ang pari sang balaan nga tubig sa kolon, kag butangan niya ini nga tubig sang yab-ok nga halin sa salog sang Tolda nga Simbahan.
Kon napatindog na sang pari ang babayi sa akon presensya, bunghayon sang pari ang buhok sang babayi kag ibutang sa iya kamot ang halad nga regalo para sa paghibalo kon bala nakasala siya ukon wala. Ginhalad ini sang iya bana tungod sang iya pagsuspetso sa iya. Pagkatapos uyatan sang pari ang kolon nga may kolon nga may mapait nga tubig nga nagadala sang mga pagpakamalaot,
kag dayon pasumpaon niya ang babayi kon nagpanginlalaki siya ukon wala kon nagpanginlalaki siya ukon wala , kag silingan, ‘Kon wala mo ginhigkuan ang imo kaugalingon paagi sa pagpakighilawas sa iban nga lalaki, indi ka mahalitan sang pagpakamalaot nga ginadala sang sining mapait nga tubig.
“Sugua ang mga Israelinhon nga paguwaon nila sa kampo ang bisan sin-o nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit,
Pero kon ginhigkuan mo ang imo kaugalingon paagi sa pagpakighilawas sa lalaki nga indi mo bana,
nagasumpa ako nga mangin halimbawa ikaw sa mga tawo sang pagpakamalaot sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tion nga indi ka na makabata.
Kabay pa nga ini nga tubig nga nagadala sang pagpakamalaot magsulod sa imo lawas para indi ka na makabata.’ Dayon masiling ang babayi, ‘Komporme ako.’
“Dayon isulat sang pari ini nga mga sumpa sa linukot nga sululatan kag hugasan niya ini didto sa mapait nga tubig.
(Kon ipainom na sa babayi ang mapait nga tubig nga nagadala sang mga pagpakamalaot, mangin kabangdanan ini sang iya puwerte nga pag-antos kon may sala siya kon may sala siya .)
Kuhaon sang pari sa kamot sang babayi ang halad nga regalo nga ginhalad sang iya bana tungod sang iya pagsuspetso, kag bayawon ini sang pari sa akon presensya kag dal-on dayon sa halaran.
Magkuha ang pari sang isa ka hakop sang sini nga halad nga para sa paghibalo kon bala nakasala ang babayi ukon wala, kag dayon sunugon ini sa halaran. Pagkatapos ipainom niya sa babayi ang tubig.
Kon matuod nga ginhigkuan niya ang iya kaugalingon paagi sa pagluib sa iya bana, ang tubig nga iya gin-inom nga nagadala sang mga pagpakamalaot magapaantos sa iya sing puwerte gid. Indi na siya makabata kag mangin halimbawa siya sa mga tawo sang pagpakamalaot sang Dios.
Pero kon wala niya ginhigkuan ang iya kaugalingon, indi siya mahalitan, kag makabata siya.
“Amo ini ang kasuguan parte sa bana nga nagasuspetso sa iya asawa. Kon ginhigkuan sang asawa ang iya kaugalingon paagi sa pagluib sa iya bana,
Huo, Huo, paguwaa ninyo sila, lalaki man ukon babayi para indi nila mahigkuan ang ila kampo, nga sa diin nagapuyo ako upod sa inyo.”
ukon nagsuspetso ang bana sa iya asawa nga nagapanginlalaki siya nga nagapanginlalaki siya , kinahanglan patindugon sang pari ang amo nga asawa sa akon presensya kag ipatuman ini nga mga kasuguan sa iya.
Ang bana wala sing salabton, pero ang asawa may salabton kon nakasala siya, kag magaantos siya sa iya sala.”
Gani ginpaguwa sang mga Israelinhon ato nga mga tawo sa kampo suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga kon ang isa ka lalaki ukon babayi naglapas sa luyag sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa paghimo sang malain sa iya isigkatawo, ina nga tawo nakasala.
Kinahanglan nga ituad niya ang iya sala nga nahimo, kag bayaran niya sing bug-os ang pagkabutang nga iya ginkuha ukon ginpierdi, kag dugangan pa niya sing 20 porsiyento sang bili sini. Ihatag niya ini tanan sa tawo nga nahimuan niya sang malain.
Pero kon ang nahimuan sang malain patay na kag patay na kag wala siya siya sing malapit nga paryente nga magbaton sini nga bayad, ang bayad iya na sang Ginoo Ginoo kag kinahanglan nga ihatag ini sa pari, upod sang karnero nga ihalad sang pari sa pagtubos sang sala sang amo nga tawo.
Ang tanan nga balaan nga regalo nga ginadala sang mga Israelinhon sa mga pari mangin iya sang mga pari.
Dayon sa ikawalo nga adlaw, kinahanglan nga magdala siya sang duha ka pating ukon duha ka tukmo sa pari didto dampi sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Ang isa ihalad sang pari bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo kag ang isa bilang halad nga ginasunog. Sa sini nga paagi matubos ang tawo sa iya sala nga nakatandog siya sang patay. Sa sina mismo nga adlaw, idedikar niya liwat liwat ang iya kaugalingon
Ang nagligad nga mga inadlaw sang iya pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo indi pag-isipon nga parte sang iya pagtuman sang iya panaad, tungod kay nadagtaan siya paagi sa pagtandog sang patay paagi sa pagtandog sang patay . Kinahanglan nga idedikar niya liwat liwat ang iya kaugalingon hasta matapos ang iya panaad, kag magdala siya sang lalaki nga karnero bilang halad nga bayad sa sala.
“Amo ini ang pagsulundan kon matapos na niya ang iya panaad bilang Nazareo: Kinahanglan nga magkadto siya sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Maghalad siya didto sa Ginoo Ginoo sining masunod nga mga sapat nga wala sing deperensya: isa ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig bilang halad nga ginasunog, isa ka babayi nga karnero nga isa man ka tuig bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki bilang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Luwas sini, maghalad man siya sang mga halad nga regalo, mga halad nga ilimnon, kag isa ka basket nga tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok, nga hinimo halin sa maayo nga klase nga harina. Ang iban nga mga tinapay madamol nga ginmikslahan sang mantika, kag ang iban manipis nga ginlamhitan sang mantika.
“Ang pari amo ang magahalad sini sa Ginoo Ginoo : Ihalad niya ang halad sa pagpakatinlo kag ang halad nga ginasunog;
dayon ihalad man niya ang lalaki nga karnero bilang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon kaupod ang isa ka basket nga tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok. Kag ihalad man niya ang mga halad nga regalo kag ang mga halad nga ilimnon.
“Dayon, pakiskisan sang Nazareo ang iya buhok nga simbolo sang pagdedikar niya sang iya kabuhi sa Ginoo Ginoo , didto sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Sunugon niya dayon ini sa kalayo nga ginasunugan sang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Pagkatapos sini, ibutang sang pari sa kamot sang Nazareo ang abaga sang karnero nga ginlaga kag ang manipis kag madamol nga mga tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok nga halin sa basket.
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga kon ang isa ka lalaki ukon babayi maghimo sang isa ka espesyal nga panaad nga idedikar niya ang iya kaugalingon sa pag-alagad sa akon bilang Nazareo,
Dayon kuhaon ini sang pari kag bayawon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga ginabayaw. Balaan ini nga parte sang halad, kag iya na ini sang pari, pati ang dughan kag paa sang karnero nga ginbayaw man sa Ginoo Ginoo . Pagkatapos sini, puwede na makainom sang bino ang Nazareo.
“Amo ina ang pagsulundan para sa isa ka Nazareo. Pero kon magpromisa ang isa ka Nazareo nga maghalad siya sa Ginoo Ginoo nga sobra sa ginapatuman sa iya panaad bilang isa ka Nazareo, dapat tumanon gid niya ini.”
“Silinga si Aaron kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki nga amo ini ang ila isiling kon magbendisyon sila sa mga Israelinhon:
sang Ginoo Ginoo .
kag kaluoy sa inyo.
kag hatagan niya kamo sang maayo nga kahimtangan.’
“Sa sini nga paagi mapahayag nila sa mga Israelinhon kon sin-o ako, kag pakamaayuhon ko sila.”
kinahanglan indi siya mag-inom sang bino nga halin sa ubas kag sang iban pa nga makahulubog nga mga ilimnon. Indi man siya mag-usar sang langgaw nga halin sa ubas kag sang langgaw nga halin sa iban pa nga makahulubog nga mga ilimnon. Indi man siya mag-inom sang duga sang ubas, ukon magkaon sang ubas ukon pasas.
Samtang isa siya ka Nazareo, kinahanglan nga indi gid siya magkaon sang bisan ano nga naghalin sa ubas, bisan gani sang liso ukon panit sini.
“Indi man niya pagpaguntingan ang iya buhok samtang wala pa matapos ang iya panaad sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kinahanglan nga iseparar siya para sa Ginoo Ginoo hasta matapos ang tion sang iya panaad. Gani pabay-an lang niya nga maglaba ang iya buhok.
Kag samtang wala pa matapos ang iya panaad sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo , kinahanglan nga indi siya magpalapit sa patay,
bisan iya pa ini nga amay, iloy, ukon utod. Indi gid niya paghigkuan ang iya kaugalingon tungod sa ila. Kay ang iya buhok simbolo sang pagdedikar niya sang iya kabuhi sa Dios.
Gani sa bilog nga tiyempo sang iya pagdedikar sang iya kabuhi, ginseparar siya para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
“Kon may napatay gulpi sa iya tupad, kag tungod sini nadagtaan ang iya buhok
Pagkatapos nga naplastar ni Moises ang Tolda nga Simbahan, ginwisikan niya ini sang lana kag gindedikar pati ang tanan nga kagamitan sini. Amo man ang iya ginhimo sa halaran kag sa tanan nga kagamitan sini.
Ang mga pangulo nagdala man sang ila mga halad para sa pagdedikar sang halaran sang tion nga gindedikar ini.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Kinahanglan nga sa kada adlaw may isa ka pangulo nga magdala sang iya halad para sa pagdedikar sang halaran.”
Dayon nagdala sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo ang mga pangulo sang Israel, nga mga pangulo sang kada tribo. Sila ang gintugyanan sa pagpang-census.
Nagdala sila sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sang anom ka karo kag dose ka baka—isa ka karo sa kada duha ka pangulo kag isa ka baka sa kada isa sa ila. Gindala nila ini sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Simbahan.
“Batuna ang ila halad agod gamiton para sa mga buluhaton sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Gani ginbaton ni Moises ang mga karo kag ang mga baka kag ginhatag ini sa mga kaliwat ni Levi.
Ginhatag niya ang duha ka karo kag apat ka baka sa mga kaliwat ni Gershon para sa ila buluhaton.
Kag ginhatag niya ang apat ka karo kag walo ka baka sa mga kaliwat ni Merari para man sa ila buluhaton. Sila tanan ginapanguluhan ni Itamar nga anak ni Aaron nga pari.
Amo ini tanan ang mga halad sang dose ka pangulo sang mga Israelinhon para sa pagdedikar sang halaran: dose ka pilak nga bandehado, dose ka pilak nga yahong, kag dose ka bulawan nga tasa.
Ang kada pilak nga bandehado may kabug-aton nga mga isa ka kilo kag tunga, kag ang kada pilak nga yahong may kabug-aton nga mga 800 ka gramo. Ang kabug-aton nila tanan mga 28 ka kilo suno sa kilohan sang mga pari.
Ang dose ka bulawan nga tasa nga puno sang insenso may kabug-aton nga mga 120 ka gramo kada isa suno sa kilohan sang mga pari. Ang kabug-aton nila tanan mga 1,440 ka gramo.
Ang mga sapat nga ginhatag para sa halad nga ginasunog: dose ka bataon nga baka, dose ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki kag dose ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad, upod sa sini ang mga halad nga regalo. Ang halad sa pagpakatinlo: dose ka kanding nga lalaki.
Amo ini tanan ang mga halad sang pagdedikar sang halaran.
Kon magsulod si Moises sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sa pagpakighambal sa Ginoo Ginoo , mabatian niya ang tingog nga nagapakighambal sa iya halin sa tunga sang duha ka kerubin, sa ibabaw sang takop sang Kahon sang Kasuguan. Didto nagapakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Pero wala paghatagi ni Moises sang karo ukon baka ang mga kaliwat ni Kohat kay sila ang gintugyanan sa pagtuwang sang balaan nga mga butang sang Tolda sang Tolda .
Dal-on mo ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa akon presensya kag itungtong sang mga Israelinhon ang ila mga kamot sa mga ulo sang mga kaliwat ni Levi.
Si Aaron amo ang magdedikar sa ila sa akon presensya bilang espesyal nga halad
“Dayon itungtong sang mga kaliwat ni Levi ang ila mga kamot sa ulo sang duha ka bataon nga baka para sa akon. Ang isa halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag ang isa halad nga ginasunog, para matubos sila sa ila mga sala.
Dayon patinduga sila sa atubangan ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak nga lalaki kag idedikar sila bilang espesyal nga halad sa akon.
Sa sini nga paagi painon mo ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa iban nga mga Israelinhon, kag mangin akon sila.
“Pagkatapos nga matinluan mo na ang mga kaliwat ni Levi kag madedikar sila sa akon bilang espesyal nga halad, makaalagad na sila sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Sila ang mga Israelinhon nga ginseparar para lang gid sa akon sa baylo sang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang mga Israelinhon.
Kay ang tagsa ka kamagulangan sa Israel akon, tawo man ukon sapat. Sang ginpamatay ko ang tanan nga kamagulangan sang mga Egyptohanon, ginseparar ko para sa akon ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang Israel.
Kag ginkuha ko ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa baylo sang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang Israel.
Sa tanan nga Israelinhon, ang mga kaliwat ni Levi ang ginpili ko nga magbulig kay Aaron kag sa iya mga anak. Magaalagad sila sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan para sa mga Israelinhon, kag magahimo sila sang mga seremonya para matubos ang mga Israelinhon sa ila mga sala, agod wala sing kahalitan nga mag-abot sa ila kon magpalapit sila sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.”
“Silinga si Aaron nga kon ibutang na niya ang pito ka suga, kinahanglan nga iplastar niya ini nga ang sanag sini magabanaag sa atubangan sang bulutangan sini.”
Gani ginhimo nila ni Moises, ni Aaron kag sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises nga himuon para sa mga kaliwat ni Levi.
Pagkatapos sina, nag-alagad na ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sa idalom sang pagdumala ni Aaron kag sang iya mga anak. Gani ginhimo nila sa mga kaliwat ni Levi ang suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
“Ini nga mga pagsulundan para sa mga kaliwat ni Levi: Magsugod ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa pag-alagad sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sa edad nga 25,
kag mag-untat sila sa pag-alagad sa edad nga 50. Kag kon magretiro na sila,
puwede sila makabulig-bulig sa ila kapareho nga mga Levita paagi sa pag-alagad bilang manugbantay sa Tolda, pero indi gid sila maghimo sang mga buluhaton sa Tolda. Amo ina ang mga katungdanan sang mga kaliwat ni Levi nga ipatuman mo sa ila.”
Gani ginhimo ini ni Aaron; ginplastar niya ang mga suga nga ang sanag sini nagabanaag sa atubangan, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Bulawan ang bug-os nga bulutangan sang suga, halin sa idalom hasta sa ibabaw, suno sa desinyo nga ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
“Paina ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa iban nga mga Israelinhon, kag tinlui sila.
Amo ini ang imo himuon sa pagtinlo sa ila: Wisikan mo sila sang tubig nga ginagamit sa pagpakatinlo, kag pakiskisi ang bilog nila nga lawas kag palabhi ang ila mga bayo. Dayon kabigon na sila nga matinlo.
Pagkatapos pakuhaon mo sila sang bataon nga baka kag sang halad nga regalo. Ini nga halad dapat maayo nga klase sang harina nga ginmikslahan sang mantika. Pakuhaon mo man sila sila sang isa pa ka bataon nga baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
“Dayon patipunon mo ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel kag idedikar ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Sang nahauna nga bulan sang ikaduha nga tuig halin sang pagguwa sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises didto sa kamingawan sang Sinai,
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga ang bisan sin-o sa ila ukon sa ila mga kaliwat nga nangin mahigko tungod sa pagtandog sang patay ukon tungod nagbiyahe siya sa malayo, makasaulog gihapon sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Saulugon nila ini pagkaligad sang isa ka bulan pagkaligad sang isa ka bulan , umpisa sa pagsalop sang adlaw sa ika-14 nga adlaw sang ikaduha nga bulan. Magakaon sila sang karnero nga may upod nga tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok kag sang mapait nga tanom.
Kinahanglan nga wala gid sila sing may ibilin sini pagkaaga, kag indi man nila pagbalion ang mga tul-an sang karnero. Kon magsaulog sila sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel, kinahanglan nga sundon gid nila ang tanan nga pagsulundan parte sini.
“Pero ang tawo nga indi magsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel, bisan matinlo siya kag wala nagbiyahe sa malayo, ina nga tawo dapat indi na pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo, tungod kay wala siya naghalad sang halad para sa Ginoo Ginoo sa natalana nga tion. Ina nga tawo magaantos sa iya nga sala.
“Kon ang pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo gusto magsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel, kinahanglan nga saulugon niya ini suno sa tanan nga pagsulundan parte sini. Pareho lang ang mga pagsulundan para sa mga tumandok nga mga Israelinhon nga mga Israelinhon kag sa mga pangayaw.”
Sang adlaw nga ginpatindog ang Tolda nga Simbahan nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan, ginlikupan ini sang panganod. Halin sa gab-i hasta sa aga nagasiga ang panganod nga daw sa kalayo.
Amo ini ang nagakatabo permi—nagalikop ang panganod sa Tolda kon adlaw kon adlaw kag nagasiga ini nga daw sa kalayo kon gab-i.
Kon mag-alsa na gani ang panganod sa ibabaw sang Tolda kag maghalin, nagahalin man ang mga Israelinhon, kag kon diin gani magpundo ang panganod didto man sila nagakampo.
Gani nagalakat kag nagakampo ang mga Israelinhon suno sa mando sang Ginoo Ginoo . Wala sila nagalakat kon nagalikop pa ang panganod sa Tolda.
Bisan magdugay ang panganod sa ibabaw sang Tolda, nagahulat lang sila sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag wala sila nagahalin.
“Ipasaulog sa mga Israelinhon ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sa natalana nga tion,
Kon kaisa mga pila lang ka adlaw ang panganod sa ibabaw sang Tolda, gani ang mga tawo nagapabilin man sing pila lang ka adlaw. Dayon suno sa mando sang Ginoo Ginoo nagahalin sila.
Kon kaisa man nagapabilin ini sa isa lang ka gab-i kag pagkaaga nagapaibabaw ini, kag nagalakat man dayon ang mga Israelinhon. Bisan gab-i ukon adlaw, basta magpaibabaw ang panganod nagalakat man ang mga Israelinhon.
Kon magpabilin man ang panganod sa ibabaw sang Tolda sing duha ka adlaw ukon mga isa ka bulan ukon mga isa ka tuig, nagapabilin man ang mga Israelinhon sa ila kampo. Pero kon magpaibabaw na gani ang panganod, nagalakat man dayon sila.
Gani nagakampo kag nagalakat ang mga Israelinhon suno sa mando sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag gintuman nila ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
umpisa sa pagsalop sang adlaw sa ika-14 nga adlaw sang sini nga bulan. Kinahanglan nga sundon gid ninyo ang tanan nga pagsulundan parte sa sini nga piesta.”
Gani ginsilingan ni Moises ang mga Israelinhon sa pagsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel,
kag gintuman nila ini didto sa kamingawan sang Sinai sang pagsalop sang adlaw sa ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan. Ginhimo ini sang tanan nga Israelinhon suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Pero may iban sa ila nga wala nakasaulog sang sini nga piesta, tungod kay sa sina nga adlaw ginkabig sila nga mahigko tungod nga nakatandog sila sang patay. Gani sadto mismo nga adlaw nagkadto sila kay Moises kag kay Aaron
kag nagsiling, “Nangin mahigko kami tungod nakatandog kami sang patay, pero ngaa bala nga indi kami pagtugutan sa pagselebrar sang sini nga piesta kag sa pagselebrar sang sini nga piesta kag sa paghalad sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo upod sa iban nga mga Israelinhon sa natalana nga tion?”
Nagsabat si Moises sa ila, “Maghulat lang anay kamo hasta mahibaluan ko kon ano ang isugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon parte sa inyo.”
Kag sa tion sang inyo pagkinalipay—sa inyo pagsaulog sang natalana nga mga piesta pati na sang Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan—patunugon man ninyo ang mga trumpeta kon maghalad kamo sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Ini nga mga trumpeta magapadumdom sa akon nga inyo Dios sang akon kasugtanan sa inyo sang akon kasugtanan sa inyo . Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
Sang ika-20 nga adlaw sang ikaduha nga bulan, sang ikaduha nga tuig halin sang pagguwa sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt halin sang pagguwa sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt , nagpaibabaw ang panganod halin sa Tolda nga Simbahan nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan.
Dayon naghalin ang mga Israelinhon sa kamingawan sang Sinai kag nagpanglakaton sila nga nagabalhin-balhin sang lugar, hasta nga nagpundo ang panganod sa kamingawan sang Paran.
Amo ini ang nahauna nga tion nga naglakat sila suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
Ang nahauna nga grupo sang mga tribo nga naglakat dala ang ila bandera amo ang grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Juda. Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Juda amo si Nashon nga anak ni Aminadab.
Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Isacar amo si Netanel nga anak ni Zuar,
kag ang pangulo sang tribo ni Zebulun amo si Eliab nga anak ni Helon.
Pagkatapos nga nabungkag ang Tolda nga Simbahan, gindala ini sang mga kaliwat ni Gershon kag sang mga kaliwat ni Merari, kag nagsunod sila sa paglakat.
Ang sunod nga grupo nga naglakat dala ang ila bandera amo ang grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Reuben. Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Reuben amo si Elizur nga anak ni Shedeur.
Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Simeon amo si Shelumiel nga anak ni Zurishadai,
“Magpahimo ka sang duha ka trumpeta nga pilak kag gamiton mo ini sa pagtipon sa komunidad kag sa pagpreparar sa ila sa paglakat.
kag ang pangulo sang tribo ni Gad amo si Eliasaf nga anak ni Deuel.
Dayon ang sunod nga naglakat amo ang mga kaliwat ni Kohat nga nagadala sang balaan nga mga kagamitan sang Tolda nga Simbahan. Kinahanglan naplastar na ang Tolda antes sila mag-abot sa sunod nga lugar nga ila kampuhan sa sunod nga lugar nga ila kampuhan .
Ang sunod nga grupo nga naglakat dala ang ila bandera amo ang grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Efraim. Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Efraim amo si Elishama nga anak ni Amihud.
Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Manase amo si Gamaliel nga anak ni Pedazur,
kag ang pangulo sang tribo ni Benjamin amo si Abidan nga anak ni Gideoni.
Ang katapusan nga grupo nga naglakat dala ang ila bandera amo ang grupo nga ginapangunahan sang tribo ni Dan. Sila ang mga guwardya sa likod sang tanan nga grupo. Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Dan amo si Ahiezer nga anak ni Amishadai.
Ang pangulo sang tribo ni Asher amo si Pagiel nga anak ni Ocran,
kag ang pangulo sang tribo ni Naftali amo si Ahira nga anak ni Enan.
Amo ato ang pagpasunod sa mga tribo sang Israel nga naglakat sing grupo-grupo.
Karon, nagsiling si Moises kay Hobab nga iya bayaw nga anak ni Reuel nga Midianhon, “Malakat na kami sa lugar nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihatag niya sa amon. Gani upod ka sa amon kag indi ka namon pagpabay-an, kay nagpromisa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga pakamaayuhon niya ang Israel.”
Kon patunugon na gani sing dungan ining duha ka trumpeta, magtipon ang bilog nga komunidad sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Pero nagsabat si Hobab, “Indi ko. Mabalik ako sa akon lugar kag sa akon mga kasimanwa.”
Nagsiling si Moises, “Kon mahimo indi kami pagbayai. Ikaw ang nakahibalo kon diin ang maayo nga lugar sa kamingawan nga amon kampuhan. Ikaw ang maggiya sa amon.
Kon maupod ka sa amon partihan ka namon sang tanan nga pagpakamaayo nga ihatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa amon.”
Gani naghalin sila sa bukid sang Ginoo Ginoo kag naglakat sing tatlo ka adlaw. Nagauna permi sa ila ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpangita sang lugar nga ila mapahuwayan.
Sa adlaw, ang panganod sang Ginoo Ginoo ara sa ila ibabaw kon maglakat sila.
Kada tion nga dal-on na ang Kahon nagasiling si Moises, “Sige lakat na, Ginoo Ginoo , laptaha ang imo mga kaaway. Kabay pa nga magpalalagyo sila.”
Kag kon magpundo na gani ang Kahon, nagasiling si Moises, “Balik na diri, Ginoo Ginoo , sa katawhan sang Israel nga madamo gid.”
Kon isa lang ang patunugon, ang mga pangulo lang sang kada tribo ang magtipon sa imo atubangan.
Kon patunugon gani ang trumpeta sa pagpreparar sa mga tawo sa paglakat, ang mga tribo sa east sang Tolda amo ang una nga maglakat.
Kon patunugon gani ang trumpeta sa ikaduha nga beses, ang tribo naman sa south sang Tolda sang Tolda ang maglakat. Ini nga pagpatunog amo ang tanda sang ila paglakat.
Pero lain ang pagpatunog sang trumpeta kon magpatipon sa ila.
“Ang mga kaliwat lang ni Aaron nga mga pari ang magpatunog sang mga trumpeta. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat ninyo tumanon kag sang inyo mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
“Kon ara na kamo sa inyo duta, kag magpakig-away kamo kontra sa inyo mga kaaway nga nagadaogdaog sa inyo, patunuga ninyo ang mga trumpeta para ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, magadumdom sa inyo kag magaluwas sa inyo sa inyo mga kaaway.
Nagreklamo ang mga Israelinhon tungod sa ila kabudlayan. Pagkabati sini sang Ginoo Ginoo , nangakig siya kag nagpadala siya sang kalayo nga nagsunog sang border sang kampo.
Nabatian ni Moises ang reklamo sang kada pamilya sa puwertahan sang ila mga tolda. Puwerte gid ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila, kag si Moises nalainan man sa ila ginhimo.
Nagpamangkot siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Ngaa bala nga ginhatagan mo ako nga imo alagad sang dako nga problema? Ano bala ang ginhimo ko nga wala ka malipay, nga ginhatag mo sa akon ang problema sang sini nga mga tawo?
Mga anak ko bala sila? Amay bala nila ako? Ngaa ginahambalan mo ako nga atipanon ko sila pareho sa isa ka yaya nga nagakugos sang isa ka lapsag, kag dal-on sila sa duta nga ginpromisa mo sa ila mga katigulangan?
Sa diin bala ako makuha sang karne para sa sini nga katawhan? Kay nagasagi sila reklamo sa akon nga hatagan ko sila sang karne nga ila makaon.
Indi ko masarangan nga atipanon sila tanan kon ako lang. Tama ini kabudlay para sa akon.
Kon amo man lang sini ang pagtratar mo sa akon, patya na lang ako subong. Kon nalipay ka sa akon, indi ako pagpabay-i nga mag-antos.”
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Patipuna ang 70 sa mga manugdumala sang Israel nga kilala mo gid nga mga pangulo sang katawhan, kag pakadtua sila sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag patinduga sila didto upod sa imo.
Manaog ako kag magapakighambal sa imo didto, kag ihatag ko ang iban mo nga awtoridad
“Dayon silinga ang mga tawo nga magpakatinlo sila,
Indi lang isa ka adlaw, ukon duha, ukon lima, ukon napulo, ukon beinte ka adlaw ang inyo pagkaon sini,
Tungod sini, nagpangayo sang bulig ang mga Israelinhon kay Moises, kag nagpangamuyo si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag napatay ang kalayo.
kundi isa ka bulan, hasta nga masum-oran kamo
Pero nagsiling si Moises, “600,000 tanan ang mga tawo nga kaupod ko, kag karon nagasiling ka nga hatagan mo sila sang karne nga ila kan-on sa sulod sang isa ka bulan?
Bisan ihawon pa namon ang tanan nga karnero kag baka ukon dakpon ang tanan nga isda sa dagat indi ini makaigo sa ila.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “May limitasyon bala ang akon gahom? Makita mo karon kon matabo ang ginsiling ko ukon indi.”
Gani naglakat si Moises kag ginsilingan niya ang mga tawo sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Gintipon niya ang 70 sa mga manugdumala kag ginpatindog sa palibot sang Tolda.
Dayon nagpanaog ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa panganod kag nagpakighambal kay Moises. Kag ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa 70 ka manugdumala ang iban nga awtoridad
Ang duha ka tawo nga si Eldad kag si Medad nga nalista upod sa 70 ka manugdumala wala nagkadto sa Tolda kundi nagpabilin sila sa kampo. Pero nabaton man nila ang awtoridad kag naghalambalanon man sila didto sa kampo.
May isa ka bataon nga lalaki
Si Josue nga anak ni Nun, nga nangin kabulig ni Moises halin sang bataon pa siya, nagsiling kay Moises, “Sir, pauntata sila.”
Pero nagsabat si Moises, “Nabalaka ka bala kon mangin ano ang resulta sini sa akon pagkapangulo? Kon sa akon lang, gusto ko nga ang tanan nga katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo hatagan niya sang awtoridad para magahalambalanon sila pareho sang mga propeta.”
Gani ang amo nga lugar gin-ngalanan nga Tabera,
Dayon nagbalik si Moises kag ang mga manugdumala sang Israel sa kampo.
Karon, nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang hangin nga nagdala sang mga pitaw halin sa dagat. Naglinupad-lupad sila sa palibot sang kampo, nga mga 3 feet ang ila antad sa duta kag pila ka kilometro ang ila kalaparon.
Gani sa sinang bilog nga adlaw nagpangdakop ang mga tawo sang mga pitaw hasta sa bilog nga gab-i, kag pagkasunod pa gid nga adlaw. Wala sing may nakakuha sing manubo sa 30 ka sako, kag ginbulad nila ini sa palibot sang kampo.
Pero samtang ginausang pa nila ang karne, kag wala pa nila matulon, nangakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila, kag ginpadal-an niya sila sang grabe nga kahalitan.
Gani gintawag ang amo nga lugar nga Kibrot Hataava
Halin didto, naglakat ang mga Israelinhon sa Hazerot kag didto nagkampo.
Karon, ang grupo sang mga indi Israelinhon nga nag-upod sa mga Israelinhon nagapangita sang mga pagkaon nga gusto nila kaunon, gani pati ang mga Israelinhon nagreklamo nga nagasiling, “Kuntani makakaon kita sang karne.
Sang didto kita sa Egypt, makakaon kita sang isda nga libre kag sang mga pipino, mga melon, mga sibuyas, kag mga ahos.
Pero diri wala kita gana magkaon;
Inang manna daw sa mga liso nga magagmay kag maputi.
Karon, ginpakalain ni Miriam kag ni Aaron si Moises tungod kay nagpangasawa siya sang taga-Ethiopia.
Sang naghalin na ang panganod sa ibabaw sang Tolda, gintubuan dayon si Miriam sang delikado nga balatian sa panit,
nagsiling si Aaron kay Moises, “Nagapangabay ako sa imo nga indi kami pagsiluti tungod sa binuang nga sala nga amon nahimo.
Indi pag-itugot nga mangin pareho si Miriam sa isa ka bata nga natawo nga patay, nga ang katunga sang iya lawas naupod na.”
Gani nagpakitluoy si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo , “O Dios ko, nagapangabay ako sa imo nga ayuhon mo si Miriam.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Indi bala nga kon duplaan siya sang iya amay sa guya bilang pagpakalain sa iya bilang pagpakalain sa iya antuson niya ang kahuy-anan sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw? Gani paguwaa siya sa kampo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw; pagkatapos sang pito ka adlaw, puwede na siya makabalik.”
Gani ginpaguwa si Miriam sa kampo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Ang mga tawo wala nagpadayon sa pagpanglakaton hasta nga nakabalik si Miriam sa kampo.
Pagkatapos sadto, naghalin sila sa Hazerot kag nagkampo sa kamingawan sang Paran.
Nagsiling sila, “Paagi lang bala kay Moises nagapakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo ? Nagapakighambal man siya paagi sa amon.” Pero nabatian ini sang Ginoo Ginoo .
(Si Moises mapainubuson gid labaw sa tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan.)
Gani naghambal gilayon ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, Aaron, kag Miriam, “Guwa kamo nga tatlo kag magkadto sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.” Gani nagguwa sila nga tatlo kag nagkadto sa Tolda.
Dayon nagpanaog ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa panganod nga daw haligi kag nagtindog sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag gintawag si Aaron kag si Miriam. Pagpalapit sang duha,
nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pamati kamo! Kon may propeta ako nga ara sa inyo, nagapakighambal ako sa iya paagi sa palanan-awon kag damgo.
Pero indi pareho sina kon magpakighambal ako sa akon alagad nga si Moises, nga masaligan nga pangulo sang akon katawhan.
Kon magpakighambal ako sa iya, daw pareho lang nga nagaatubangay kami kay ang akon ginahambal sa iya maathag gid kaayo. Daw pareho lang nga makita niya ako. Gani ngaa wala gid kamo nahadlok maghambal sing malain kontra sa akon alagad nga si Moises?”
Naakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila, kag naghalin siya.
Sila ang mga tawo nga ginpadala ni Moises sa pagpang-espiya sa Canaan. (Gin-ilisan ni Moises ang ngalan ni Hoseas nga anak ni Nun nga Josue.)
Antes sila ginpalakat ni Moises sa pagpang-espiya sa Canaan, nagsiling siya sa ila, “Maglakat kamo pa-north kag magkadto sa Negev,
Tan-awa ninyo kon ano ang hitsura sang duta, kag kon bala ang mga tawo didto makusog ukon maluya, kag kon madamo sila ukon diutay lang.
Tan-awa ninyo kon ano nga klase sang duta ang ila ginapuy-an, kon bala maayo ukon indi. Tan-awa ninyo ang ila mga banwa kon bala napalibutan sang pader ukon wala.
“Magpadala ka sang mga tawo sa pagpang-espiya sa Canaan—ang duta nga ihatag ko sa inyo nga mga Israelinhon. Ang mga tawo nga imo ipadala mga pangulo sang kada tribo sang Israel.”
Tan-awa man ninyo kon bala mapatubason ang duta ukon indi, kag kon may mga kahoy ukon wala. Kag tinguhai gid ninyo nga makadala sang mga prutas sa inyo pagbalik.” (Panahon gid sadto nga tigluluto sang ubas.)
Gani naglakat sila kag gintan-aw nila ang duta halin sa kamingawan sang Zin hasta sa Rehob malapit sa Lebo Hamat.
Nag-umpisa sila sa Negev hasta nga nakaabot sila sa Hebron, nga sa diin nagaestar sila ni Ahiman, Sheshai, kag Talmai, nga mga kaliwat ni Anak. (Ining Hebron gintukod pito ka tuig antes gintukod ang Zoan sa Egypt.)
Pag-abot nila sa Eshcol nga ililigan sang tubig, nagtapas sila sang isa ka pungpong sang ubas. Ginbutang nila ini sa tukon kag gintuwangan sang duha ka tawo. Nagdala man sila sang mga prutas nga prutas nga pomegranata kag higos.
Ato nga ililigan sang tubig gintawag nga Eshcol
Pagkatapos sang 40 ka adlaw nga pagpang-espiya sa duta, nagbalik sila
kay Moises, kay Aaron, kag sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sa Kadesh, didto sa kamingawan sang Paran. Ginsugid nila sa bilog nga komunidad ang ila nakita, kag ginpakita nila ang ila dala nga mga prutas.
Nagsiling sila kay Moises, “Nagkadto kami sa lugar nga ginpakadtuan mo sa amon, kag maayo ini kag mapatubason nga duta. Ari pa gani ang mga prutas.
Pero gamhanan ang mga tawo nga nagaestar didto, kag dalagko gid ang ila mga banwa kag napalibutan sang mga pader. Nakita pa gani namon didto ang mga kaliwat ni Anak.
Ang mga Amaleknon nagaestar sa Negev; ang mga Hithanon, mga Jebusnon, kag mga Amornon nagaestar sa mga kabukiran; kag ang mga Canaanhon nagaestar malapit sa dagat kag sa higad sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.”
Gintuman ni Moises ang ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Halin didto sa kamingawan sang Paran ginpadala niya sa Canaan sa Canaan ang mga pangulo sang mga Israelinhon.
Ginpakalma ni Caleb ang mga tawo sa atubangan ni Moises, kag nagsiling siya, “Malakat kita subong dayon kag agawon ta ang duta, kay sigurado gid nga maagaw ta ini.”
Pero nagsiling ang mga tawo nga nag-upod kay Caleb sa pagpang-espiya, “Indi ta masarangan ang pagsalakay sa ila, kay mas makusog sila sang sa aton.”
Kag ginpalapnag nila sa mga Israelinhon ang indi maayo nga balita parte sa duta nga ila gintan-aw. Amo ini ang ila ginsiling, “Ang duta nga amon gintan-aw nagahalit
May nakita gani kami nga mga higante,
Sadto mismo nga gab-i naghinibi sing tudo ang bilog nga komunidad.
Batuhon kuntani sila sang bilog nga komunidad, pero gulpi lang nga nagpakita sa ila ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Hasta san-o pa bala ang pagsikway sining mga tawo sa akon? Hasta san-o pa bala sila nga indi magtuo sa akon sa pihak sang tanan nga milagro nga ginpanghimo ko sa ila?
Padal-an ko ining mga Israelinhon sang kahalitan kag laglagon ko sila, pero ikaw ya himuon ko nga isa ka nasyon nga mas gamhanan kag mas mabakod sang sa ila.”
Nagsiling si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Ano na lang ang isiling sang mga Egyptohanon kon mabalitaan nila ini? Indi bala nga nahibaluan nila nga nahibaluan nila nga ginkuha mo ang mga Israelinhon sa ila paagi sa imo gahom?
Kon laglagon mo ang imo katawhan, Kon laglagon mo ang imo katawhan, isugid ini sang mga Egyptohanon sa mga pumuluyo sang Canaan. Ini nga mga Canaanhon nakabati na nga ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo , nagaupod sa mga Israelinhon kag nagpakita sa ila paagi sa panganod nga nagatuytoy sa ila. Ginapangunahan mo sila kon adlaw paagi sa panganod nga daw haligi, kag kon gab-i paagi sa kalayo nga daw haligi man.
Karon, kon pamatyon mo ining katawhan sa isa lang ka tion, ang mga nasyon nga nakabati parte sa imo pagkabantog magasiling,
‘Indi masarangan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga dal-on ang mga Israelinhon sa duta nga iya ginpromisa sa ila, gani ginpamatay na lang niya sila sa kamingawan.’
“Gani karon, O Ginoo, kabay pa nga ipakita mo ang imo gahom suno sa imo ginasiling nga
mahigugmaon ka kag indi dali mangakig, kag mapinatawaron sa mga sala kag paglapas sang tawo. Pero ginasilutan mo ang mga nakasala hasta sa ila ikatatlo kag ikaapat nga henerasyon.
Suno sa imo dako nga gugma, patawara ang sala sang sini nga mga tawo, pareho sang pagpatawad mo sa ila halin sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt.”
Nagreklamo sila kay Moises kag kay Aaron. Siling nila, “Maayo pa nga nagkalamatay na lang kita sa Egypt ukon diri sa kamingawan.
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Patawaron ko sila suno sa imo ginpangayo.
Pero nagasumpa ako, ang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga samtang napun-an ang bilog nga kalibutan sang akon gamhanan nga presensya,
Pero si Caleb nga akon alagad pasudlon ko sa duta nga iya gintan-aw tungod kay lain ang iya batasan sang sa iban kag nagasunod siya sa akon sing tinagipusuon. Ang iya mga kaliwat magaestar man sa sina nga duta.
Karon indi anay kamo magderetso tungod kay may mga Canaanhon kag mga Amaleknon nga nagaestar sa tunga sang mga bukid, kundi magbalik kamo buwas sa kamingawan, pakadto sa dalan nga padulong sa Mapula nga Dagat.”
“Hasta san-o pa bala ang pagreklamo sining malain nga komunidad sa akon? Nabatian ko ang mga reklamo sining mga reklamador nga mga Israelinhon.
Gani ihambal ini sa ila: ‘Nagasumpa ako, ang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga himuon ko sa inyo ang ginsiling ninyo.
Magakalamatay kamo diri sa kamingawan. Tungod nga nagreklamo kamo sa akon, wala sing bisan isa sa inyo nga nagaedad sing 20 ka tuig paibabaw
Ngaa bala nga dal-on pa kita sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sina nga duta? Para lang bala magkalamatay kita sa inaway kag magkalabihag ang aton mga asawa kag mga kabataan? Maayo pa siguro mabalik na lang kita sa Egypt.”
nga makasulod sa duta nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag kuntani sa inyo nga inyo estaran, luwas lang kay Caleb nga anak ni Jefune kag kay Josue nga anak ni Nun.
Kon parte sa inyo mga kabataan nga siling ninyo pagabihagon, dal-on ko sila sa duta nga inyo ginsikway kag mangin ila ini.
Pero kamo ya magakalamatay diri sa kamingawan.
Ang inyo mga kabataan mangin pareho sa mga manugbantay sang karnero nga magalibot-libot diri sa kamingawan sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig. Sa sini nga paagi, magaantos sila tungod sang inyo pagluib sa akon hasta nga mapatay kamo tanan.
Subong nga ang mga tawo nga nagpang-espiya sa duta nagtiner didto sing 40 ka adlaw, magaantos man kamo sing 40 ka tuig tungod sang inyo sala, para mahibaluan ninyo kon paano ako mangakig sa mga nagakontra sa akon.
Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini kag sigurado gid nga himuon ko ini nga mga butang sa sining malain nga komunidad nga nag-isa sa pagkontra sa akon. Mapatay sila tanan diri sa kamingawan.’ ”
Sa dose sa ila nga nagpang-espiya, si Josue nga anak ni Nun kag si Caleb nga anak ni Jefune lang ang wala mapatay.
Sang ginsugid ni Moises ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga Israelinhon, nagpangasubo gid sila.
Kag naghambalanay sila sa isa kag isa, “Mapili kita sang pangulo kag magbalik sa Egypt!”
Kag sang sunod nga adlaw, aga pa gid sila nagbangon para magtaklad sa kabukiran sang Canaan sang Canaan . Nagsiling sila, “Nareyalisar namon nga nakasala kami, kag karon handa na kami sa pagkadto sa lugar nga ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pero nagsiling si Moises, “Ngaa nga ginalapas ninyo ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magbalik kamo anay sa kamingawan nga magbalik kamo anay sa kamingawan ? Indi gid kamo magmadinalag-on!
Indi kamo maglakat, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo wala nagaupod sa inyo, kag mapierdi lang kamo sa inyo mga kaaway.
Sa tion nga magpakig-away sa inyo ang mga Canaanhon kag ang mga Amaleknon, magakalamatay kamo; indi mag-upod sa inyo ang Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay ginsikway ninyo siya.”
Pero naglakat gid sila sa kabukiran sang Canaan sang Canaan bisan wala nag-upod sa ila si Moises kag ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon ginsalakay sila sang mga Amaleknon kag sang mga Canaanhon nga nagaestar didto sa kabukiran, kag napierdi sila, kag ginlagas pa sila hasta sa Horma.
Dayon nagluhod si Moises kag si Aaron sa atubangan sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel nga nagtilipon didto.
Gin-gisi ni Josue nga anak ni Nun kag ni Caleb nga anak ni Jefune ang ila mga bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo . Ini sila nga duha nag-upod sa pagpang-espiya sa duta.
Nagsiling sila sa bilog nga komunidad, “Maayo gid katama ang duta nga amon ginkadtuan.
Kon nalipay ang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton, tuytuyan niya kita pakadto sa sina nga duta—ang maayo kag mapatubason nga duta,
Indi lang kamo magrebelde sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga tawo didto kay mapierdi gid naton sila. Wala sing may magbulig sa ila, pero ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang magabulig sa aton. Gani indi kamo magkahadlok sa ila.”
Kag updan pa gid ini sang halad nga ilimnon nga duha ka litro nga bino. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa akon.
Amo ina ang inyo himuon kon maghalad kamo sang isa ka turo nga baka ukon gulang nga karnero nga lalaki ukon bataon nga karnero ukon kanding.
Himua ninyo ina sa kada sapat nga inyo ihalad.
“Ang tanan nga tumandok nga mga Israelinhon nga mga Israelinhon nga maghalad sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo bilang mahamot nga halad nga makapalipay sa akon dapat magsunod sa sina nga mga pagsulundan.
Kon ang mga pangayaw nga magaestar upod sa inyo, permanente man ukon indi, gusto maghalad sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo bilang mahamot nga halad nga makapalipay sa akon, dapat magsunod man sila sa sina nga mga pagsulundan.
Kamo nga mga Israelinhon kag ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo pareho lang sa akon atubangan kag pareho lang nga kasuguan ang tumanon ninyo. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon ninyo hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
Huo, Huo, pareho lang nga mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan ang tumanon ninyo kag sang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo.”
Ginsugo pa gid sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises
nga ihambal ini sa mga Israelinhon: “Kon mag-abot na kamo sa duta nga ihatag ko sa inyo,
makakaon kamo sang mga produkto sini. Pero dapat magpain kamo sang iban sini para ihalad sa akon.
nga ihambal ini sa mga Israelinhon: “Kon mag-abot na kamo sa duta nga ihatag ko sa inyo nga inyo estaran,
Maghalad kamo sang tinapay halin sa harina nga una ninyo nga gin-galing, pareho sang inyo ginahimo sa una nga patubas sang inyo trigo halin sa linasan.
Ini nga halad halin sa harina nga una ninyo nga gin-galing ihalad ninyo sa akon hasta san-o.
“Pero halimbawa nalapas ninyo nga indi hungod ang isa sa sini nga mga sugo nga ginhatag ko kay Moises.
Ini nga mga sugo nga ginhatag ko sa inyo paagi kay Moises dapat tumanon ninyo halin sang adlaw nga ginhatag ko ini hasta sa palaabuton.
Kon indi hungod ang paglapas ninyo sini, kag wala kahibalo ang komunidad nga nakalapas kamo, maghalad ang bilog nga komunidad sang isa ka bataon nga baka bilang halad nga ginasunog. Halad ini nga ang iya kahamot makapalipay sa akon. Iupod man ninyo ang mga ginakinahanglan nga halad nga regalo kag halad nga ilimnon kag isa ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Ihalad ini sang pari para matubos ang bilog nga komunidad sa ila sala. Patawaron ko sila kay indi man ato hungod, kag nagdala man sila sa akon sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo kag sang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Huo, patawaron ko ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel, pati ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa ila, kay ang tanan nadalahig sa amo nga sala nga indi hungod.
“Pero kon isa lang ka tawo ang nakasala nga indi hungod, magdala siya sang isa ka babayi nga kanding nga isa ka tuig bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Ihalad ini sang pari sa akon presensya para matubos siya sa iya sala nga indi hungod, kag dayon patawaron ko siya.
Isa lang ka pagsulundan para sa tanan nga nakasala nga indi hungod, tumandok man siya nga Israelinhon ukon pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo.
maghalad kamo sa akon sang mga halad nga halin sa inyo mga kasapatan. Maghalad kamo sang mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad sa pagtuman sang isa ka panaad, mga halad nga kinabubut-on, ukon mga halad sa tion sang natalana nga mga piesta. Ang kahamot sang sini nga mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
“Pero ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakasala sing hungod, tumandok man siya ukon pangayaw, nagainsulto sa akon. Kag ina nga tawo kinahanglan indi na pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo.
Tungod kay ginsikway niya ang akon pulong kag ginlapas ang akon sugo. Indi gid ninyo siya pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo. Magapanabat siya sa iya nga sala.”
Samtang didto sa kamingawan ang mga Israelinhon, may nakita sila nga tawo nga nagapangahoy sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Gindala siya sang mga tawo nga nakakita sa iya kay Moises kag kay Aaron kag sa bilog nga komunidad.
Ginpriso nila siya, kay wala sila nakasiguro kon ano ang dapat nga himuon sa iya.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Kinahanglan nga patyon ang amo nga tawo; batuhon siya sang bilog nga komunidad sa guwa sang kampo.”
Gani gindala siya sang bilog nga komunidad sa guwa sang kampo kag ginbato hasta nga napatay, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
nga ihambal ini sa mga Israelinhon: “Maghimo kamo sang mga gaway-gaway sa punta sang inyo mga bayo kag butangan ninyo ini sang higot nga asol. Kinahanglan nga sundon ninyo ini hasta san-o.
Ang ini nga mga gaway-gaway magapadumdom sa inyo sang tanan ko nga mga sugo para tumanon ninyo ini kag indi ang inyo lang gusto nga himuon.
Paagi sa sini nga mga gaway-gaway dumdumon ninyo ang pagtuman sang tanan ko nga sugo, kag mangin akon kamo.
Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt para mangin inyo Dios. Huo, Huo, ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
Kon gulang nga karnero ang ihalad, updan ini sang halad nga regalo nga apat ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase kag ginmikslahan sang isa kag tunga ka litro nga mantika.
Kag updan pa gid ini sang halad nga ilimnon nga isa kag tunga ka litro nga bino. Ang kahamot sini nga halad makapalipay sa akon.
“Ang maghalad sang bataon nga baka bilang halad nga ginasunog ukon halad sa pagtuman sang isa ka panaad, ukon halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon,
kinahanglan maghalad man sang halad nga regalo nga anom ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase kag ginmikslahan sang duha ka litro nga mantika.
Ginpili niya kamo sa pagpalapit sa iya presensya, kag karon gusto pa ninyo nga mangin mga pari?
Sin-o si Aaron para reklamuhan ninyo? Ang Ginoo Ginoo ang ginakontra mo kag sang imo mga sumulunod.”
Dayon ginpatawag ni Moises si Datan kag si Abiram, nga mga anak ni Eliab. Pero nagsiling sila, “Indi kami magkadto!
Indi pa bala tuman nga ginkuha mo kami sa Egypt nga ang duta maayo kag mapatubason
Kag isa pa gid, wala mo kami pagdal-a sa duta nga maayo kag mapatubason ukon paghatagan sang mga uma ukon mga talamnan sang ubas nga amon mapanag-iyahan. Karon, gusto mo pa gid bala kami nga tuntuhon? Indi kami magkadto sa imo sa imo !”
Naakig gid si Moises kag nagsiling siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi pagbatuna ang ila mga halad. Wala ako nakasala sa kay bisan sin-o sa ila; wala ako sing may ginkuha sa ila bisan isa ka donkey.”
Nagsiling dayon si Moises kay Kora, “Buwas, ikaw kag ang imo mga sumulunod magkadto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan , kag si Aaron makadto man didto.
Ang kada isa sa imo 250 ka sumulunod padal-a sang suludlan sang insenso, kag butangan nila ini sang insenso kag ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kamo ni Aaron magdala man sang suludlan sang insenso.”
Gani ang kada isa nagkuha sang iya suludlan sang insenso kag ginbutangan sang baga kag insenso, kag nagtindog sila upod kay Moises kag kay Aaron sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Ang bilog nga komunidad nga gin-ganyat ni Kora nga magkontra kay Moises kag kay Aaron nagtipon man didto sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan. Dayon ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya gamhanan nga presensya sa bilog nga komunidad.
“Palayo kamo sa sini nga komunidad kay patyon ko sila gilayon.”
Pero nagluhod si Moises kag si Aaron kag nagsiling, “O Dios nga ginahalinan sang kabuhi sang tanan nga tawo mangakig ka bala sa bilog nga komunidad tungod sa isa lang ka tawo nga nakasala?”
“Silinga ang komunidad nga magpalayo sila sa mga tolda nila ni Kora, Datan, kag ni Abiram.”
Ginkadtuan ni Moises si Datan kag si Abiram, kag nagsunod sa iya ang mga manugdumala sang Israel.
Dayon ginpaandaman niya ang komunidad, “Magpalayo kamo sa mga tolda sining malain nga mga tawo! Indi kamo magtandog sang bisan ano nila nga pagkabutang, kay kon himuon ninyo ina laglagon kamo tungod sang tanan nila nga sala.”
Gani nagpalayo ang mga tawo sa mga tolda nila ni Kora, Datan, kag Abiram. Karon, nagguwa si Datan kag si Abiram kag nagtindog sa puwertahan sang ila mga tolda upod sang ila mga asawa kag mga kabataan.
Nagsiling si Moises sa mga tawo sa mga tawo , “Sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagpadala sa akon sa paghimo sini nga mga butang kag indi sa akon lang kagustuhan:
Kon mapatay ini nga mga tawo sa natural nga kamatayon, ti wala ako pag-ipadala sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagkadto sila sing tingob kay Moises kag kay Aaron kag nagsiling, “Sobra na ining inyo ginahimo sa amon! Ngaa bala nga ginapalabaw gid ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo nga kon sa bagay kami tanan ginpili man sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mag-alagad sa iya kag ginaupdan man niya?”
Pero kon maghimo ang Ginoo Ginoo sing makatilingala nga butang, kag magpihak ang duta kag maglamon sa ila nga buhi upod sang tanan nila nga pagkabutang, kag magkadto sila sa idalom didto sa lugar sang mga patay, mahibaluan ninyo nga ini nga mga tawo nagsikway sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pagkatapos hambal ni Moises, napihak ang duta nga ginatindugan nila ni Datan kag ni Abiram,
kag ginlamon sila sang duta pati ang ila mga pamilya, kag pati ang tanan nga tinawo ni Kora kag ang tanan nila nga pagkabutang.
Ginlamon sila tanan nga buhi pati ang tanan nila nga pagkabutang. Dayon nagkipot ang duta kag nadula sila sa komunidad.
Ang tanan nga Israelinhon nga didto sa ila palibot nagpalalagyo sang mabatian nila ang ila pagsininggit, kay nagahunahuna sila nga basi lamunon man sila sang duta.
Dayon nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang kalayo kag ginlamon sini ang 250 ka sumulunod ni Kora nga nagahalad sang insenso.
“Silinga si Eleazar nga pari, nga anak ni Aaron, nga kuhaon niya ang mga suludlan sang insenso sa mga bangkay nga nagkalasunog, kay balaan ini nga mga suludlan. Silinga man siya nga laptahon niya sa malayo ang mga baga
sang sini nga mga suludlan nga halin sa mga tawo nga nagkalamatay tungod sa ila mga sala. Dayon ipamartilyo ang mga suludlan hasta nga magtapan kag ihaklap sa halaran kay ginhalad ini sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nangin balaan ini. Ining haklap sa halaran mangin isa ka paandam para sa mga Israelinhon.”
Pagkabati sini ni Moises, nagluhod siya sa pagpangamuyo sa Ginoo sa pagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagreklamo naman ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel kay Moises kag kay Aaron. Nagsiling sila, “Ginpamatay ninyo ang katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Samtang nagareklamo sila sing tingob kay Moises kag kay Aaron, nagbalikid sila sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag nakita nila nga gulpi lang nga ginlikupan sang panganod ang Tolda kag ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya gamhanan nga presensya.
Dayon nagkadto si Moises kag si Aaron sa atubangan sang Tolda
kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
Nagluhod dayon sila nga duha.
Dayon nagsiling si Moises kay Aaron, “Kuhaa ang imo suludlan sang insenso kag butangi ini sang baga halin sa halaran. Dayon butangi ini sang insenso kag magdali-dali ka kadto sa komunidad kag himua ang seremonya para matubos sila sa ila mga sala, kay akig na ang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsugod na ang kahalitan.”
Gani gintuman ni Aaron ang ginsugo ni Moises, kag nagdalagan siya sa tunga sang komunidad. Nagsugod na ang kahalitan sa mga tawo, pero ginsunog ni Aaron ang insenso para matubos ang mga tawo sa ila mga sala.
Nagtindog siya sa tunga sang mga tawo nga patay na kag sang mga buhi pa, kag nag-untat ang kahalitan.
Pero 14,700 ang napatay wala labot sadtong napatay tungod kay Kora.
Dayon nagbalik si Aaron kay Moises sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kay nag-untat na ang kahalitan.
kag butangan ninyo sang baga kag insenso, kag dal-on sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon makita ta kon sin-o gid ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mag-alagad sa iya. Kamo nga mga Levita, amo ang sobra na ang inyo ginahimo!”
Nagsiling pa gid si Moises kay Kora, “Pamatii ninyo ini, kamo nga mga Levita.
Indi pa bala tuman para sa inyo nga sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel kamo ang ginpili sang Dios sang Israel nga makapalapit sa iya presensya sa pag-alagad sa iya Tolda, kag sa pag-alagad para sa komunidad?
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Ibalik ang baston ni Aaron sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kahon sang Kasuguan para mangin paandam ini sa mga rebelde nga magakalamatay sila kon indi sila mag-untat sa pagreklamo kontra sa akon.”
Gintuman ni Moises ang ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling ang mga Israelinhon kay Moises, “Mapatay na kami sini tanan!
Kay bisan magpalapit lang ang isa ka tawo sa Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo mapatay. Ti, mapatay na kami sini tanan!”
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga ang kada pangulo sang kada tribo maghatag sa imo sang isa ka baston, kag pabutangi ini sang ila tagsa ka ngalan. Dose tanan ka baston.
Sa baston sang tribo ni Levi, isulat ang ngalan ni Aaron. Kay kinahanglan may isa ka baston sa kada pangulo sang tribo.
Ibutang ini tanan sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kahon sang Kasuguan nga sa diin nagapakigkita ako sa inyo ni Aaron.
Kag magapanalingsing ang baston sang tawo nga pilion ko nga mag-alagad sa akon bilang pari nga mag-alagad sa akon bilang pari , kag sa sini nga paagi mag-untat ang pagreklamo sang mga Israelinhon kontra sa inyo ni Aaron.”
Gani ginsilingan ni Moises ang mga Israelinhon, kag ang kada pangulo sang tribo naghatag sa iya sang baston. Dose tanan ka baston, kag isimpon didto ang baston ni Aaron.
Ginbutang tanan ni Moises ang mga baston sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Tolda nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagsulod si Moises sa Tolda nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan. Kag nakita niya didto nga ang baston ni Aaron, nga nagarepresentar sang tribo ni Levi, nagpanalingsing, nagpamukol, nagpamulak, kag nagpamunga pa sang luto nga mga almendro.
Dayon ginpaguwa ni Moises ang tanan nga baston kag ginpakita sa tanan nga Israelinhon. Gintan-aw nila ini, kag ang kada pangulo sang tribo nagkuha sang iya baston.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Aaron, “Ikaw kag ang imo mga anak nga lalaki kag ang imo mga paryente halin sa tribo ni Levi amo ang responsable sa sala nga inyo mahimo sa inyo pag-alagad sa balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda . Pero ikaw lang kag ang imo mga anak ang responsable sa sala nga inyo mahimo nga may kaangtanan sa inyo pagkapari.
Kauna ninyo ini sa balaan gid nga lugar.
Ang iban pa gid nga mga halad sang mga Israelinhon nga ginabayaw sa halaran sa halaran para man sa inyo. Ginahatag ko ini sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat bilang inyo parte hasta san-o. Makakaon sini ang bisan sin-o sa imo pamilya nga ginakabig nga matinlo.
Ginahatag ko man sa inyo ang maayo nga mga produkto nga ginahalad sang mga Israelinhon halin sa ila nahauna nga patubas: lana, duga sang ubas, kag uyas.
Huo, Huo, mangin inyo ang tanan nga produkto nga ila ginahalad sa akon halin sa nahauna nga patubas sang ila duta. Makakaon sini ang bisan sin-o sa imo pamilya nga ginakabig nga matinlo.
“Ang tanan nga butang sa Israel nga ginhalad sa akon sing bug-os
Ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki, tawo man ukon sapat, nga ginahalad sa akon mangin inyo man. Pero kinahanglan nga ipagawad ninyo sa manughalad sa manughalad ang kamagulangan nga mga anak nga lalaki kag ang mga kamagulangan nga mga sapat nga ginakabig nga mahigko.
Ipagawad ninyo ini kon isa na ka bulan ang edad, kag kinahanglan nga ipagawad ninyo ini sa bili nga lima ka bilog nga pilak, suno sa kabug-aton sang pilak sa kilohan sang mga pari.
Pero indi ninyo pag-ipagawad ang kamagulangan nga turo nga baka, karnero ukon kanding kay akon na ini. Ihawon ninyo ini kag Ihawon ninyo ini kag iwisik ang dugo sa halaran kag sunuga ang mga tambok bilang halad nga paagi sa kalayo.
Inyo ang karne sini, subong nga ang dughan kag ang tuo nga paa sang halad nga ginabayaw inyo man.
Huo, Huo, ginahatag ko sa inyo ining tanan nga balaan nga mga halad nga ginabayaw sang mga Israelinhon sa akon. Para ini sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat bilang inyo parte hasta san-o. Ining kasugtanan ko sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat indi maliwat hasta san-o.”
Kon mag-alagad ka kag ang imo mga anak sa Tolda nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan, pabuliga ninyo ang inyo mga paryente halin sa tribo ni Levi.
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Aaron, “Kamo nga mga pari wala sing may mapanubli nga duta sa Israel, kay ako mismo ang maghatag sang inyo mga kinahanglanon.
“Kon parte sa mga Levita, bayaran ko sila sa ila nga serbisyo sa Tolda. Ihatag ko sa ila ang tanan nga ikanapulo nga ihatag sang mga Israelinhon bilang parte nila.
Sugod subong, wala sing iban nga Israelinhon nga magpalapit sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan luwas lang sa mga pari kag sa mga Levita, kay kon magpalapit sila, luwas lang sa mga pari kag sa mga Levita, kay kon magpalapit sila, magapanabat sila sa ila nga sala kag mapatay.
Ang mga Levita amo ang responsable sa mga buluhaton sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kag magapanabat sila sa ila mahimo nga sala kontra sini. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon hasta sa palaabuton nga mga henerasyon. Ang mga Levita wala sing may mapanubli nga duta sa Israel.
Sa baylo, ihatag ko sa ila bilang parte nila ang mga ikanapulo nga ihatag sang mga Israelinhon bilang halad nila sa akon. Amo gani nga nagsiling ako nga ang mga Levita wala sing may mapanubli nga duta sa Israel.”
nga ihambal niya ini sa mga Levita: “Kon mabaton ninyo halin sa mga Israelinhon ang ikanapulo nga ihatag ko sa inyo bilang parte ninyo, kinahanglan nga maghatag man kamo sang inyo ikanapulo halin sa amo nga ikanapulo bilang halad sa akon.
Kabigon ko ini bilang halad ninyo halin sa mga patubas, nga daw sa naghalad kamo sang uyas halin sa linasan ukon bino halin sa pulugaan sang ubas.
Sa sini nga paagi makahatag man kamo sang halad sa akon halin sa tanan nga ikanapulo nga inyo mabaton halin sa mga Israelinhon. Kag ang akon parte, nga amo ang ikanapulo sini, parte, nga amo ang ikanapulo sini, ihatag ninyo kay Aaron nga pari.
Kinahanglan nga ang akon parte amo ang pinakamaayo nga parte sang tanan nga ihatag sa inyo.
Magaobra sila sa idalom sang imo pagdumala, kag himuon nila ang tanan nila nga buluhaton sa Tolda, pero indi sila dapat magtandog sa balaan nga mga kagamitan sang Tolda ukon sa halaran, kay kon himuon nila ina magakalamatay sila pati kamo.
Kon mahalad na ninyo ini, kabigon ko ini bilang halad ninyo halin sa linasan ukon pulugaan sang ubas.
Puwede ninyo kaunon sang inyo pamilya ang inyo parte bisan diin nga lugar, kay ina ang inyo suweldo sa pag-alagad sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Indi kamo makasala sa inyo pagkaon sini kon nahalad na ninyo ang pinakamaayo nga parte sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gani siguraduhon ninyo nga indi ninyo madagtaan ang balaan nga mga halad sang mga Israelinhon paagi sa pagkaon sang inyo parte nga wala pa ninyo mahatag ang akon parte paagi sa pagkaon sang inyo parte nga wala pa ninyo mahatag ang akon parte , para indi kamo mapatay.”
Magbulig sila sa imo, kag responsibilidad nila ang pag-atipan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag ang paghimo sang tanan nga buluhaton sini. Dapat wala sing bisan sin-o nga magbulig sa inyo nga indi kaliwat ni Levi.
“Ikaw kag ang imo mga anak ang responsable sa pag-atipan sang Balaan nga Lugar kag sang halaran, para indi ako mangakig liwat sa mga Israelinhon.
Ako mismo ang nagpili sang imo kapareho nga mga kaliwat ni Levi halin sa mga Israelinhon para mangin imo kabulig. Gindedikar sila sa akon sa pag-alagad sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Pero ikaw lang kag ang imo mga anak ang makaalagad bilang mga pari. Kamo lang ang makahimo sang mga buluhaton nga may kaangtanan sa halaran kag sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar. Regalo ko sa inyo ang inyo pagkapari. Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sini nga indi pari pagapatyon.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Aaron, “Ako mismo ang nagpili sa imo nga magdumala sa balaan nga mga halad nga ginahalad sang mga Israelinhon sa akon. Ginahatag ko ini sa imo kag sa imo mga anak bilang parte ninyo hasta san-o.
May ara kamo sang parte sa sining balaan nga mga halad nga wala ginasunog, nga ginahalad sang mga tawo sa akon bilang balaan nga mga halad. Lakip sa sini nga mga halad amo ang halad nga regalo, halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag halad nga bayad sa sala. Amo ini ang imo parte kag sang imo mga anak.
Ang tawo nga nagkuha sang abo sang baka kinahanglan man nga labhan niya ang iya bayo, kag kabigon man siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon hasta san-o sang mga Israelinhon kag sang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa ila.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga magtandog sang bangkay kabigon nga mahigko sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Kinahanglan nga tinluan niya ang iya kaugalingon sang tubig nga ginagamit sa pagpakatinlo sa ikatatlo kag ikapito nga adlaw, dayon kabigon na siya nga matinlo. Pero kon indi siya magpakatinlo sa ikatatlo kag ikapito nga adlaw, indi siya pagkabigon nga matinlo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga makatandog sang bangkay kag wala nagpakatinlo
“Amo ini ang pagsulundan kon may napatay sa sulod sang tolda: Ang bisan sin-o nga magsulod sa tolda nga may napatay nga may napatay ukon ara na nga daan sa sulod sa tion sang pagkapatay sa tion sang pagkapatay , kabigon nga mahigko sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Kag kabigon man nga mahigko ang bisan ano nga mga suludlan sa tolda nga wala sing takop.
“Kabigon man nga mahigko sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw ang bisan sin-o nga ara sa guwa sang kampo nga nakatandog sang bangkay nga ginpatay ukon napatay lang sa natural nga kamatayon. Amo man sa nakatandog sang tul-an sang tawo ukon nakatandog sang lulubngan.
“Agod makuha ang pagkahigko, ibutang sa suludlan ang iban nga abo sang baka nga ginahalad para sa pagpakatinlo, kag dayon simpunan sang tubig.
Dayon ang isa ka tawo nga ginakabig nga matinlo magkuha sang isa ka pungpong sang tanom nga isa ka pungpong sang tanom nga isopo kag itum-oy niya ini sa sadto nga tubig kag iwisik dayon sa tolda nga namatyan nga namatyan kag sa tanan nga kagamitan sini, kag sa mga tawo nga nakasulod sa tolda. Wisikan man ang tawo nga nakatandog sang tul-an sang tawo, ukon sang bangkay sang tawo nga ginpatay ukon napatay lang sa natural nga kamatayon, ukon nakatandog sang lulubngan.
Sa ikatatlo kag ikapito nga adlaw, wisikan sang tawo nga ginakabig nga matinlo ang tawo nga mahigko. Kag sa ikapito nga adlaw, ang tawo nga gintinluan kinahanglan labhan niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo, kag pagkasirom kabigon na siya nga matinlo.
“Ari pa ang isa ka pagsulundan nga gusto ko nga tumanon ninyo: Silinga ninyo ang mga Israelinhon nga dal-an nila kamo sang isa ka mapula nga baka nga wala sing deperensya kag wala pa magamit sa pag-arado.
Pero kon ang tawo nga mahigko indi magpakatinlo, indi siya pagkabigon nga sakop ninyo, kay daw pareho lang nga gindagtaan niya ang balaan nga Tolda nga Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag tungod nga wala siya nawisiki sang tubig nga para sa pagpakatinlo, mahigko siya gihapon.
“Ang tawo nga nagawisik sang tubig nga para sa pagpakatinlo kinahanglan nga labhan man niya ang iya bayo, kag ang bisan sin-o nga magtandog sang tubig nga para sa pagpakatinlo kabigon nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Ang bisan sin-o ukon bisan ano nga matandog sang mahigko nga tawo mangin mahigko man hasta magsirom.”
Ihatag ninyo ini kay Eleazar nga pari, kag dal-on ini sa guwa sang kampo kag ihawon sa iya atubangan.
Dayon itum-oy ni Eleazar ang iya tudlo sa dugo sini kag iwisik sing makapito ka beses sa atubangan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Kag samtang nagatulok si Eleazar, sunugon ang bilog nga bilog nga baka—ang panit, unod, dugo kag mga tinai.
Dayon magkuha si Eleazar sang isa ka utod nga isa ka utod nga kahoy nga sedro, isa ka pungpong sang tanom nga isa ka pungpong sang tanom nga isopo, kag pula nga higot, kag ihaboy ini tanan sa ginasunog nga baka.
Pagkatapos sina kinahanglan nga labhan ni Eleazar ang iya bayo kag magpaligo. Kag dayon makasulod na siya sa kampo, pero kabigon pa siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
Ang tawo nga nagsunog sang baka kinahanglan nga labhan man niya ang iya bayo kag magpaligo, kag kabigon man siya nga mahigko hasta magsirom.
“Ang tawo nga ginakabig nga matinlo amo ang magkuha sang abo sang baka, kag ibutang niya ini sa isa ka lugar nga ginakabig nga matinlo sa guwa sang kampo. Taguon ini pero gamiton sang komunidad sang Israel nga inugmiksla sa tubig nga para sa pagpakatinlo. Ini nga seremonya ginahimo para makuha ang sala.
Sa nahauna nga bulan, nag-abot ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sa kamingawan sang Zin, kag nagkampo sila sa Kadesh. Didto napatay si Miriam kag ginlubong.
Dayon gintipon nila ni Aaron ang bilog nga bilog nga komunidad sa atubangan sang bato, kag nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Pamati kamo nga mga rebelde, kinahanglan bala nga hatagan namon kamo sang tubig halin sa sini nga bato?”
Dayon ginbayaw ni Moises ang iya baston kag ginhampak sing makaduha ka beses ang bato, kag nagpuswak ang tubig, kag nag-inom ang komunidad kag ang ila mga kasapatan.
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron, “Tungod kay wala kamo magpati sa akon sa inyo pagpakita sang akon pagkabalaan sa atubangan sang mga Israelinhon, indi kamo ang magapangulo sa pagdala sini nga komunidad sa duta nga ihatag ko sa ila.”
Ini nga lugar gintawag nga tuburan sang Meriba
Samtang didto pa ang mga Israelinhon Samtang didto pa ang mga Israelinhon sa Kadesh, nagpadala si Moises sang mga mensahero sa hari sang Edom. Amo ini ang iya mensahi, “Ini nga mensahi halin sa imo mga paryente, ang katawhan sang Israel: Nahibaluan mo ang tanan nga kabudlayan nga amon naagyan.
Ang amon mga katigulangan nagkadto sa Egypt, kag malawig ang amon pag-estar didto. Gindaogdaog kami kag ang amon mga katigulangan sang mga Egyptohanon,
“Karon, ari kami diri sa Kadesh, ang banwa sa higad sang imo teritoryo.
Kon mahimo tuguti kami sa pag-agi sa imo duta. Indi kami mag-agi sa mga uma ukon talamnan sang ubas ukon mag-inom sa mga bubon. Maagi lang kami sa imo mayor nga dalan
Pero amo ini ang sabat sang hari sang Edom: “Indi kamo mag-agi diri sa amon. Kon mag-agi kamo, salakayon namon kamo kag pamatyon.”
Nagsabat ang mga Israelinhon, “Maagi lang kami sa mayor nga dalan, kag kon makainom man kami kag ang amon mga kasapatan sang inyo tubig, bayaran namon ini. Maagi lang gid kami sa inyo.”
Karon, wala sing tubig didto, kag nagtipon naman naman ang mga tawo kontra kay Moises kag kay Aaron.
“Basta indi kamo mag-agi diri.” Dayon gintipon sang hari sang Edom ang iya gamhanan kag mabakod nga mga soldado para magpakig-away sa mga Israelinhon.
Tungod kay indi magpaagi ang mga taga-Edom sa ila teritoryo, naglikaw na lang ang mga Israelinhon.
Naghalin ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sa Kadesh kag nagkadto sa Bukid sang Hor.
Didto sa Bukid sang Hor, malapit sa border sang Edom, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Aaron,
“Nag-abot na ang tion nga isimpon ka na Aaron sa imo mga paryente nga nagkalamatay na nga nagkalamatay na . Indi ka makasulod sa duta nga ihatag ko sa mga Israelinhon tungod kay nagsupak kamo nga duha ni Moises sa akon sugo didto sa tuburan sang Meriba.
Karon, Moises, dal-a si Aaron kag ang iya anak nga si Eleazar sa Bukid sang Hor.
Dayon ubahi si Aaron sang iya bayo nga pagkapari nga pagkapari kag ipasuksok mo sa iya anak nga si Eleazar, kay mapatay na si Aaron didto sa bukid.”
Gintuman ni Moises ang ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsaka sila sa Bukid sang Hor samtang nagatulok ang bilog nga komunidad.
Dayon gin-uba ni Moises ang bayo ni Aaron kag ginpasuksok niya ini kay Eleazar. Kag napatay didto si Aaron sa ibabaw sang bukid. Dayon nagpanaog si Moises kag si Eleazar sa bukid.
Kag sang mahibaluan sang bilog nga komunidad nga patay na si Aaron, nagpangasubo sila para sa iya sa sulod sang 30 ka adlaw.
Nagbais sila kay Moises kag nagsiling, “Maayo pa nga napatay na lang kami upod sang amon mga kasimanwa nga nagkalamatay sadto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ngaa bala nga gindala mo pa kami nga komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo diri sa kamingawan para magkalamatay man lang kami kag ang amon kasapatan?
Ngaa bala nga ginpaguwa mo pa kami sa Egypt kag gindala diri sa wala sing pulos nga lugar? Wala diri sing uyas, higos, ubas ukon pomegranata. Kag wala pa sing tubig nga mainom!”
Gani naghalin si Moises kag si Aaron sa komunidad, kag nagkadto sila sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag nagluhod sila sa pagpangamuyo sa pagpangamuyo . Dayon nagpakita sa ila ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Kuhaa ang baston kag tipuna ninyo sang imo utod nga si Aaron ang bilog nga bilog nga komunidad. Kag samtang nagatulok sila, sugua ang bato nga magtubod, kag magatubod ini. Sa sini nga paagi mahatagan ninyo sing tubig ang katawhan para mapainom ninyo sila kag ang ila kasapatan.”
Gani ginkuha ni Moises ang baston sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , didto sa Kahon sang Kasugtanan, didto sa Kahon sang Kasugtanan, suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya.
Karon, ang Canaanhon nga hari sang Arad nga nagaestar sa Negev nakabati nga nagapadulong ang mga Israelinhon, nga nagaagi sa dalan sang Atarim. Gani ginsalakay niya sila kag ginbihag ang iban sa ila.
Nagpadayon sa paglakat ang mga Israelinhon, kag nagkampo sila sa Obot.
Halin sa Obot, naglakat sila kag nagkampo sa Iye Abarim, sa kamingawan nga ara sa east sang Moab.
Halin didto naglakat sila kag nagkampo sa Zered nga ililigan sang tubig.
Kag halin sa Zered naglakat naman sila kag nagkampo sa tabok sang Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig nga ililigan sang tubig , nga ara sa kamingawan nga malapit sa teritoryo sang mga Amornon. Ang Arnon amo ang border sang duta sang mga Moabnon kag sang duta sang mga Amornon.
Amo gani nga nasulat sa Libro sang Pagpakig-away sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Waheb nga sakop sang Sufa, ang mga ililigan sang tubig lakip na ang Arnon,
kag ang kilid sang mga ililigan sang tubig nga nagalambot sa banwa sang Ar nga ara sa border sang Moab.
Halin didto sa Arnon sa Arnon , nagkadto ang mga Israelinhon sa Beer, ang bubon nga sa diin nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Tipuna ang mga tawo kay hatagan ko sila sang tubig.”
Magkanta kita parte sa sini nga bubon
Halin sa kamingawan nagkadto sila sa Matana;
halin sa Matana nagkadto sila sa Nahaliel; halin sa Nahaliel nagkadto sila sa Bamot;
Dayon nagsumpa ang mga Israelinhon sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon itugyan mo ini nga mga tawo sa amon mga kamot, laglagon namon sing bug-os
kag halin sa Bamot nagkadto sila sa pulopatag sang Moab, nga sa diin makita ang kamingawan sa ubos sang putokputokan sang Pisga.
Karon, nagpadala sang mga mensahero ang Israel kay Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon. Amo ini ang ila mensahi:
“Kon mahimo tuguti kami sa pag-agi sa inyo duta. Indi kami mag-agi sa mga uma ukon talamnan sang ubas ukon mag-inom sa mga bubon. Maagi lang kami sa inyo mayor nga dalan hasta nga makaguwa kami sa inyo teritoryo.”
Pero wala nagsugot si Sihon nga mag-agi ang mga Israelinhon sa iya teritoryo. Sa baylo, gintipon niya ang iya bilog nga mga soldado kag nagkadto sila sa kamingawan sa pagsalakay sa mga Israelinhon. Pag-abot nila sa Jahaz, nagpakig-away sila kontra sa mga Israelinhon.
Pero ginpamatay sila sang mga Israelinhon kag gin-agaw ang ila duta halin sa Arnon pakadto sa Suba sang Suba sang Jabok. Pero hasta lang ang mga Israelinhon lang ang mga Israelinhon sa border sang duta sang border sang duta sang mga Ammonhon, tungod kay ang ila border napaderan sing mapag-on.
Gani naagaw sang mga Israelinhon ang tanan nga banwa sang mga Amornon kag gin-estaran nila ini, pati ang Heshbon kag ang tanan nga baryo nga sakop sini.
Ining Heshbon amo sadto ang kapital nga siyudad ni Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon. Napierdi niya sadto ang isa ka hari sang Moab kag gin-agaw niya ang tanan nga duta sini hasta sa Arnon.
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga taga-Moab! Nalaglag kamo nga mga nagasimba sa dios nga si Kemosh. Kamo nga iya mga anak ginpabay-an niya nga mabihag ni Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon.
Ginpamatian sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pangabay sang mga Israelinhon kag gintugyan niya sa ila ang mga Canaanhon. Ginlaglag sila sing bug-os sang mga Israelinhon pati ang ila mga banwa, gani gintawag ato nga lugar nga Horma.
Pero karon nalaglag na namon ang mga Amornon. Nagkalaguba na ang siyudad sang Heshbon, pati ang Dibon, Nofa, kag Medeba.”
Gani nag-estar ang mga Israelinhon sa duta sang mga Amornon.
Pagkatapos, nagpadala si Moises sang mga espiya sa Jazer, kag gin-agaw man nila ini kag ang mga baryo nga sakop sini. Ginpahalin nila ang mga Amornon nga nagaestar didto.
Dayon nagkadto sila sa Bashan, pero ginsalakay sila ni Haring Og sang Bashan kag sang iya bilog nga mga soldado didto sa Edrei.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Indi ka magkahadlok sa iya, kay sigurado nga itugyan ko siya sa imo, pati ang iya bilog nga katawhan kag ang iya duta. Himua sa iya ang ginhimo mo kay Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon nga naghari sa Heshbon.”
Gani ginpatay sang mga Israelinhon si Og, pati ang iya kabataan kag ang tanan niya nga katawhan, kag wala gid sing may nabilin sa ila. Dayon ginpanag-iyahan sang mga Israelinhon ang duta nga sakop ni Og.
Halin sa Bukid sang Hor, naglakat ang mga Israelinhon nga nagaagi sa dalan nga pakadto sa Mapula nga Dagat para makalibot sila sa duta sang Edom. Pero natak-an ang mga tawo sa ila paglakat,
gani nagreklamo sila sa Dios kag kay Moises. Siling nila, “Ngaa bala ginpaguwa pa ninyo kami sa Egypt para magkalamatay man lang diri sa kamingawan? Wala diri sing pagkaon kag tubig! Kag indi na kami makaagwanta sining makasulum-od nga manna.”
Gani, ginpadal-an sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang dalitan nga mga man-og kag ginpangkagat sila, kag madamo ang nagkalamatay sa ila.
Nagkadto ang mga tawo kay Moises kag nagsiling, “Nakasala kami sang paghambal namon kontra sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sa imo. Pangamuyua sa Ginoo Ginoo nga kuhaon niya sa amon ining mga man-og.” Gani nagpangamuyo si Moises para sa mga tawo.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Maghimo ka sang man-og nga saway nga saway kag ibutang ini sa punta sang isa ka tukon. Ang bisan sin-o nga ginkagat sang man-og magtulok lang sa sining man-og nga saway nga saway kag indi siya mapatay.”
Gani naghimo si Moises sang man-og nga saway kag ginbutang sa punta sang isa ka tukon. Kag ang bisan sin-o nga ginkagat sang man-og nagtulok lang sa sining man-og nga saway kag wala siya napatay.
Nagpadayon sa paglakat ang mga Israelinhon hasta nga nakaabot sila sa kapatagan sang Moab, kag nagkampo sila sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, sa atubangan sang Jerico.
Nagsabat si Balaam sa Dios, “ Sila ang mga mensahero nga ginpadala ni Sila ang mga mensahero nga ginpadala ni Haring Balak sang Moab, nga anak ni Zipor. Amo ini ang iya mensahi:
‘May mga tawo nga naghalin sa Egypt kag puwerte sila kadamo. Gani kadto ka diri kag pakamalauta ini nga mga tawo para sa akon. Kay basi pa lang mapierdi ko sila kag matabog palayo.’ ”
Pero nagsiling ang Dios kay Balaam, “Indi ka mag-upod sa ila. Kag indi pagpakamalauta ang mga tawo nga ginasiling nila nga ginasiling nila , kay ginpakamaayo ko sila.”
Pagbugtaw ni Balaam pagkaaga, ginsilingan niya ang mga pangulo ni Balak, “Pauli na lang kamo sa inyo nasyon kay indi magsugot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga mag-upod ako sa inyo.”
Gani nagbalik ang mga pangulo sang Moab kay Balak kag nagsiling, “Indi mag-upod si Balaam sa amon.”
Gani nagpadala liwat si Balak sang mga pangulo nga mas madamo kag mas dungganon pa sang sa nahauna.
“Amo ini ang ginpasiling ni Balak nga anak ni Zipor: ‘Indi pagtuguti nga may magsablag sa imo sa pagkadto diri.
Bayaran ko ikaw sing maayo kag himuon ko ang bisan ano nga gusto mo. Sige na, kadto na diri kag pakamalauta ini nga mga tawo para sa akon.’ ”
Pero nagsabat si Balaam sa ila, “Bisan ihatag pa ni Balak sa akon ang iya palasyo nga puno sang pilak kag bulawan, indi ko mahimo nga lapason ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, bisan sa dako ukon sa gamay lang nga bagay.
Pero diri lang anay kamo tulog sa gab-i pareho sang ginhimo sang iban ninyo nga kaupod, kay basi kon may iban pa nga ihambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon.”
Karon, nahibaluan ni Haring Haring Balak sang Moab sang Moab , nga anak ni Zipor, ang tanan nga ginhimo sang mga Israelinhon sa mga Amornon.
Sadto nga gab-i nagsiling ang Dios kay Balaam, “Total nagkadto gid man diri ini nga mga tawo sa pagtawag sa imo, mag-upod ka na lang sa ila, pero ang isiling ko lang sa imo amo ang himua.”
Gani pagkaaga, ginpreparar ni Balaam ang iya donkey kag nag-upod sa mga pangulo sang Moab,
upod sang iya duha ka suluguon. Pero samtang nagapanglakaton
Pagkakita sang donkey nga nagatindog ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa dalan nga nagauyat sang espada, naglipas sang dalan ang donkey kag nagpakadto sa uma. Gani ginhanot ini ni Balaam kag ginpabalik sa dalan.
Dayon nagtindog ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa makitid nga dalan sa gin-utlan sang duha ka pader sang mga talamnan sang ubas.
Pagkakita sang donkey sa anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagpangalihid siya sa pader hasta nga naipit ang tiil ni Balaam. Gani ginhanot siya liwat ni Balaam.
Dayon naglakat sa unhan ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagtindog sa mas makitid pa nga dalan nga indi na gid makaliso sa wala ukon sa tuo.
Pagkakita sang donkey sa anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo nagluko na lang siya, kag nangakig gid si Balaam kag ginhanot niya ini sang iya baston.
Dayon ginpahambal sang Ginoo Ginoo ang donkey, kag nagsiling ini kay Balaam, “Ano bala ang nahimo ko sa imo nga ginhanot mo ako sing tatlo na ka beses?”
Nagsabat si Balaam sa donkey, “Ginhimo mo ako nga daw sa buang-buang! Kon may espada lang ako, patyon ta gid ka subong.”
Hinadlukan gid siya kag ang mga Moabnon tungod sa kadamuon sang mga Israelinhon.
Nagsiling ang donkey kay Balaam, “Indi bala nga ako ang imo donkey nga permi mo ginasakyan? Nakaagi bala nga nagbisyo ako sing pareho sini?” Nagsabat si Balaam, “Wala.”
Dayon ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Balaam ang iya anghel nga nagatindog sa dalan nga nagauyat sang espada. Gani nagluhod si Balaam sa duta.
Nagpamangkot sa iya ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ngaa bala nga ginhanot mo ang imo donkey sing tatlo gid ka beses? Ari ako diri sa pagbalabag sa imo kay ang imo pagginawi indi husto sa akon panulok.
Nakita ako sang imo donkey kag naglikaw siya sa akon sing tatlo ka beses. Kon wala siya naglikaw sa akon, ginpatay ko na kuntani ikaw, kag ang imo donkey ginpabay-an ko nga mabuhi.”
Nagsiling si Balaam sa anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Nakasala ako! Wala gid ako nakahibalo nga nagatindog ka gali dira sa dalan sa pagbalabag sa akon. Karon, kon para sa imo malain ang akon ginahimo ang akon ginahimo , mapuli na lang ako.”
Nagsiling ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Balaam, “Upod ka sa sina nga mga tawo, pero ihambal lang ang isiling ko sa imo.” Gani nag-upod si Balaam sa mga pangulo ni Balak.
Pagkahibalo ni Balak nga nagapadulong si Balaam, naglakat siya sa pagsugata sa iya didto sa isa ka banwa sang Moab malapit sa Arnon, sa border sang iya teritoryo.
Nagsiling si Balak kay Balaam, “Indi bala nga dali-dali ko ikaw nga ginpatawag? Ngaa wala ka nagkadto gilayon? Nagahunahuna ka bala nga indi ko ikaw pagsuhulan?”
Nagsabat si Balaam, “Ti, ari na ako. Pero wala ako sing iban nga ihambal kundi ang ipahambal lang sang Dios sa akon.”
Dayon nag-upod si Balaam kay Balak sa Kiriat Huzot.
Gani si Balak nga anak ni Zipor, nga amo ang hari sang Moab sang sina nga panahon,
Kag didto naghalad si Balak sang baka kag karnero. Ginhatag niya ang iban nga karne kay Balaam kag sa mga pangulo nga kaupod niya.
Pagkaaga, gindala ni Balak si Balaam sa Bamot Baal, kag didto nakita niya sa ubos ang iban nga mga katawhan sang Israel.
“May mga tawo nga naghalin sa Egypt kag puwerte sila kadamo kag nagaestar malapit sa amon.
Gani kadto diri kag pakamalauta ini nga mga tawo, kay mas gamhanan sila sang sa amon. Kag basi pa lang mapierdi ko sila kag matabog palayo sa akon duta. Kay nahibaluan ko nga ang bisan sin-o nga bendisyunan mo ginabendisyunan, kag ang pakamalauton mo ginapakamalaot.”
Gani naglakat ang mga manugdumala sang Moab kag Midian nga dala ang bayad para kay Balaam. Ginsilingan nila siya sang ginsiling ni Balak.
Kag nagsiling si Balaam sa ila, “Diri lang kamo tulog sa gab-i, kag isugid ko sa inyo buwas kon ano ang ihambal sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon.” Gani didto nagtulog ang mga pangulo sang Moab.
Karon, nagpamangkot ang Dios kay Balaam, “Sin-o ining upod mo nga mga tawo?”
Nagsiling si Balaam kay Balak, “Pahimui ako diri sing pito ka halaran, kag preparahi ako sing pito ka turo nga baka kag pito ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki.”
Wala sing may makaisip sang ila kadamuon nga pareho sa yab-ok. Kabay pa nga ang akon kamatayon mangin pareho sa ila nga mga matarong.”
Nagsiling si Balak kay Balaam, “Ano ining ginhimo mo sa akon? Ginpakuha ko ikaw sa pagpakamalaot sa akon mga kaaway, pero ang imo ginhimo ginbendisyunan mo sila!”
Nagsabat si Balaam, “Kinahanglan nga ihambal ko ang ginapahambal sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon.”
Dayon nagsiling si Balak sa iya, “Mag-upod ka sa akon sa isa pa ka lugar nga sa diin makita mo ang iban nga mga katawhan sang Israel, pero indi gid ang tanan. Kag didto pakamalauton mo sila.”
Gani gindala ni Balak si Balaam sa isa ka uma sa Zofim, sa putokputokan sang Pisga, kag didto nagpatindog sila sang pito ka halaran kag naghalad sang isa ka baka kag isa ka karnero sa kada halaran.
Nagsiling si Balaam kay Balak, “Diri ka lang sa tupad sang imo halad nga ginasunog samtang magpakigkita ako sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo dira sa unhan.”
Nagpakigkita ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Balaam kag ginhatagan niya siya sang mensahi. Kag dayon nagsiling siya, “Balik ka kay Balak kag ihambal mo sa iya ini nga mensahi.”
Gani nagbalik si Balaam kay Balak, kag nakita niya siya nga nagatindog sa tupad sang iya halad, upod sa mga pangulo sang Moab. Nagpamangkot si Balak kay Balaam, “Ano ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo?”
Nagsiling si Balaam, “Balak nga anak ni Zipor, pamatii ako sing maayo.
Ang Dios indi tawo nga magbutig ukon magbaylo ang iya hunahuna. Nagahambal bala siya nga wala niya ginahimo? Nagapromisa bala siya nga wala niya ginatuman?
Gintuman ni Balak ang ginsiling ni Balaam, kag duha sila ang naghalad sang turo nga baka kag sang lalaki nga karnero sa kada halaran.
Ginsugo niya ako nga magbendisyon, kag kon mabendisyunan na niya gani, indi ko na ini mabawi pa.
Wala ako sing nakita nga katalagman ukon kabudlayan nga maabot sa Israel. Kaupod nila ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios; ginakilala nila nga siya amo ang ila hari.
Ginpaguwa sila sang Dios sa Egypt; para sa ila, pareho siya sa isa ka makusog nga talunon nga baka.
Wala sing babaylan ukon manughiwit nga makahalit sa ila. Gani magasiling ang mga tawo parte sa Israel, ‘Daw ano ka makatilingala ang ginhimo sang Dios sa Israel.’
Ini nga katawhan pareho sa leon nga handa sa pagsalakay kag wala nagapahuway hasta nga malamon niya ang iya biktima kag masuyop ang dugo sini.”
Dayon nagsiling si Balak kay Balaam, “Kon indi mo gid man sila pagpakamalauton, indi sila pagbendisyuni!”
Nagsabat si Balaam, “Indi bala nga ginsilingan ko na ikaw nga kinahanglan nga himuon ko kon ano ang isiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon?”
Nagsiling liwat si Balak kay Balaam, “Dali, dal-on ko ikaw sa lain naman nga lugar. Basi didto magsugot na ang Dios nga pakamalauton mo ang Israel para sa akon.”
Gani gindala ni Balak si Balaam sa putokputokan sang Peor, nga sa diin kitaon ang kamingawan sa ubos.
Nagsiling si Balaam, “Pahimui ako diri sing pito ka halaran, kag magpreparar ka sing pito ka turo nga baka kag pito ka lalaki nga karnero para sa akon.”
Dayon nagsiling si Balaam kay Balak, “Diri ka lang sa tupad sang imo halad nga ginasunog. Malakat ako anay, kay basi magpakigkita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon. Sugiran ko lang ikaw kon ano ang iya isiling sa akon.” Gani nagtaklad siya sa mahawan nga bukid.
Gani ginhimo ni Balak ang ginsiling ni Balaam, kag naghalad siya sang isa ka baka kag isa ka karnero sa kada halaran.
Nagpakigkita ang Dios sa iya, kag nagsiling si Balaam, “Nagpahimo ako sang pito ka halaran, kag sa kada halaran naghalad ako sang isa ka baka kag isa ka karnero.”
Ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Balaam sang mensahi kag nagsiling, “Balik ka kay Balak kag ihambal mo sa iya ining ginsiling ko.”
Gani nagbalik si Balaam kay Balak, kag nakita niya siya nga nagatindog sa tupad sang iya halad, upod sa tanan nga pangulo sang Moab.
“O Haring Balak sang Moab, ginpatawag mo ako halin sa Aram, sa kabukiran sa east. Nagsiling ka sa akon, ‘Dali, kag pakamalauta ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob para sa akon. Sumpaa sila nga katawhan sang Israel.’
Paano ko pakamalauton ang mga tawo nga wala ginapakamalaot sang Dios? Paano ko sumpaon ang mga tawo nga wala ginasumpa sang Ginoo Ginoo ?
Sang didto ako sa ibabaw sang mga bukid, nakita ko sila. Nagakabuhi sila nga silahanon lang, nga naseparar sa iban nga mga nasyon.
Karon, sang mareyalisar ni Balaam nga gusto sang Ginoo Ginoo nga bendisyunan ang Israel, wala na siya nagpangbabaylan pareho sang iya ginahimo sang una. Sa baylo, nag-atubang siya sa kamingawan,
Tungod sini, puwerte ang kaakig ni Balak kay Balaam. Ginhampak niya sang iya inumol ang iya nga palad kag nagsiling siya, “Ginpatawag ko ikaw sa pagpakamalaot sa akon mga kaaway, pero ginbendisyunan mo sila sing tatlo pa ka beses.
Magpuli ka na lang gilayon! Nagpromisa ako nga bayaran ko ikaw sing maayo, pero indi magsugot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga mabaton mo ang bayad.”
Nagsabat si Balaam kay Balak, “Indi bala nga ginsilingan ko ang imo mga mensahero,
nga bisan ihatag mo pa sa akon ang imo palasyo nga puno sang pilak kag bulawan, indi ako makahimo sang akon kabubut-on, malain man ukon maayo. Kundi kon ano ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon nga akon ihambal, amo lang ang akon ihambal.
Sige, mapuli na ako sa akon mga kasimanwa. Pero paandaman ko anay ikaw kon ano ang himuon sining mga tawo sa imo mga tawo sa ulihi.”
Dayon ginhambal ni Balaam ini nga mensahi: “Ako si Balaam nga anak ni Beor, kag may maathag ako nga pag-intiendi.
Nabatian ko ang pulong sang Labing Mataas nga Dios kag ginhatagan niya ako sang pag-intiendi. Nakakita ako sang palanan-awon halin sa Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios . Nagpaubos ako sa iya kag ginpaintiendi niya ako. Amo ini ang akon mensahi:
“May nakita ako sa akon palanan-awon nga wala pa natabo. Sa palaabuton nga mga inadlaw, may magahari
Sakupon niya ang Edom nga iya kaaway, nga ginatawag man nga Seir, samtang ang Israel iya magabakod.
Magadumala ang isa ka pangulo sa Israel
nga sa diin nakita niya ang mga Israelinhon nga nagakampo suno sa ila tagsa-tagsa ka tribo. Dayon gin-gamhan siya sang Espiritu sang Dios,
Dayon nakita ni Balaam sa iya palanan-awon sa iya palanan-awon ang katawhan sang Amalek kag nagsiling siya, “Ang Amalek amo sadto ang nagapanguna sa mga nasyon, pero sa ulihi malaglag ini.”
Dayon nakita naman ni Balaam sa iya palanan-awon sa iya palanan-awon ang mga Kenhanon kag nagsiling siya: “Mabakod ang inyo ginapuy-an, kay nahamtang ini sa bato nga bukid.
Pero malaglag kamo kon bihagon kamo sang Assyria.”
Kag nagsiling pa gid si Balaam sini nga mensahi: “Abaw, sin-o bala ang mabuhi kon himuon ini sang Dios?
Magaabot ang mga barko halin sa Kitim kag sakupon nila ang mga katawhan sang Assyria kag sang Eber, pero ang Kitim malaglag man.”
Dayon nagpuli si Balaam kag amo man si Balak.
kag nagsiling siya, “Ako si Balaam nga anak ni Beor, kag may maathag ako nga pag-intiendi.
Nabatian ko ang mensahi sang Dios, kag nakakita ako sang palanan-awon nga halin sa Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios . Nagpaubos ako sa iya, kag ginpahangop niya ako.
nga ginaestaran sang katawhan sang Israel nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
ukon sang mga kahoy nga sedro sa higad sang tubig.
kag ang ila ginharian mangin bantog.
kag daw sa kag daw sa ginadugmok nila ang ila mga tul-an.
kag pakamalauton ang mga nagapakamalaot sa ila.”
Samtang nagakampo ang mga Israelinhon sa Shitim, ang mga lalaki nag-umpisa sa pagpakighilawas sa mga babayi nga Moabnon.
“Ginkuha ni Finehas nga anak ni Eleazar kag apo ni Aaron nga pari ang kaakig ko sa mga Israelinhon, tungod kay akig gid siya sa sala pareho sa akon. Gani wala ko pag-ubusa pamatay ang mga Israelinhon, nga himuon ko kuntani sa ila tungod sa akon kaakig.
Gani silinga siya nga mahimo ako sang kasugtanan sa iya, nga pakamaayuhon ko ang iya kahimtangan.
Kag sa sini nga kasugtanan, siya kag ang iya mga kaliwat mangin mga pari hasta san-o, kay tungod sa akon ginpakita niya nga akig gid siya sa sala, kag gintubos niya ang mga Israelinhon sa ila sala sa ila sala .”
Ang Israelinhon nga ginpatay upod sang babayi nga Midianhon amo si Zimri nga anak ni Salu, nga pangulo sang isa ka pamilya sa mga kaliwat ni Simeon.
Kag ang Midianhon nga babayi amo si Cozbi nga anak ni Zur. Si Zur isa ka pangulo sang isa ka pamilya nga Midianhon.
“Kabiga ninyo nga kaaway ang mga Midianhon, kag pamatya ninyo sila,
tungod kay ginkabig man nila kamo nga mga kaaway sang gindayaan nila kamo didto sa Peor, kag tungod man sa babayi nga si Cozbi nga anak sang isa ka pangulo nga Midianhon. Ini nga babayi ginpatay sadtong tion nga nag-abot ang kahalitan sa Peor.”
Ini nga mga babayi nagganyat sa ila sa paghalad sa mga dios-dios nila, kag nagkaon sila sang sini nga mga halad kag nagsimba sa sini nga mga dios-dios.
Gani ang mga Israelinhon nagbuylog sa pagsimba kay Baal sang Peor. Kag puwerte gid ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Kuhaa ang tanan nga pangulo sang sini nga mga tawo, kag patya sila sa akon presensya samtang nagatan-aw ang mga tawo, para madula ang akon puwerte nga kaakig sa Israel.”
Gani nagsiling si Moises sa mga manughukom sang Israel, “Kinahanglan nga patyon sang kada isa sa inyo ang inyo mga tawo nga nagsimba kay Baal sang Peor.”
Karon, may isa ka Israelinhon nga nagdala sang isa ka Midianhon nga babayi sa iya pamilya. Nakita ini ni Moises kag sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel samtang nagahinibi sila didto sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Pagkakita sini ni Finehas nga anak ni Eleazar kag apo ni Aaron nga pari, naghalin siya sa komunidad kag nagkuha sang bangkaw.
Ginsunod niya ang tawo sa sulod sang tolda, kag gintuhog niya sila nga duha sang babayi. Dayon nag-untat ang kahalitan sa Israel,
pero 24,000 ang napatay tungod sa kahalitan.
Pagkatapos sang kahalitan, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag kay Eleazar nga anak ni Aaron nga pari,
Pero ginlamon sila sang duta upod kay Kora, kag ang 250 nila ka sumulunod nasunog sang kalayo. Kag ini nga hitabo nangin paandam sa mga Israelinhon.
Pero ang mga anak ni Kora wala nagkalamatay.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Simeon amo ang mga pamilya ni Nemuel, Jamin, Jakin,
Zera, kag Shaul.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Simeon; 22,200 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Gad amo ang mga pamilya ni Zefon, Hagi, Shuni,
Arod, kag Areli.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Gad; 40,500 sila tanan.
“I-census ninyo ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel suno sa ila pamilya—tanan nga nagaedad sing 20 ka tuig paibabaw nga makasarang sa pag-alagad bilang soldado sang Israel.”
Ang mga kaliwat ni Perez amo ang pamilya ni Hezron kag ni Hamul.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Juda; 76,500 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Isacar amo ang mga pamilya ni Tola, Pua,
Jashub, kag Shimron.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Isacar; 64,300 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Zebulun amo ang mga pamilya ni Sered, Elon, kag Jaleel.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Zebulun; 60,500 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Jose naghalin sa iya duha ka anak nga si Manase kag si Efraim.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Manase amo ang mga pamilya ni Makir kag sang iya anak nga si Gilead.
Gani nagpakighambal si Moises kag si Eleazar nga pari sa mga Israelinhon didto sa kapatagan sang Moab sa higad sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan malapit sa Jerico.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Gilead amo ang mga pamilya ni Iezer, Helek,
Shemida, kag Hefer.
Ang anak ni Hefer nga si Zelofehad wala sing anak nga lalaki, pero may mga anak siya nga babayi nga ang ila mga ngalan amo sila ni Mala, Noa, Hogla, Milca, kag Tirza.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Manase; 52,700 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat naman ni Efraim amo ang mga pamilya ni Shutela, Beker, Tahan,
kag sa anak ni Shutela nga si Eran.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Efraim; 32,500 sila tanan. Ini nga mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Manase kag Efraim amo ang mga kaliwat ni Jose.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Benjamin amo ang mga pamilya ni Bela, Ashbel, Ahiram,
Shufam, kag Hufam.
Amo ini ang mga Israelinhon nga nagguwa sa Egypt:
Ang mga kaliwat ni Bela amo ang mga pamilya ni Ard kag Naaman.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Benjamin; 45,600 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Dan amo ang mga Shuhamnon.
Ang tanan nga kaliwat ni Dan mga Shuhamnon; kag 64,400 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Asher amo ang mga pamilya ni Imna, Ishvi, kag Beria.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Beria amo ang mga pamilya ni Heber kag ni Malkiel.
(May anak nga babayi si Asher nga si Sera.)
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Asher; 53,400 sila tanan tanan .
Ang mga kaliwat ni Naftali amo ang mga pamilya ni Jazeel, Guni,
Jezer, kag Shilem.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Reuben, nga kamagulangan nga anak ni Jacob,
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Naftali; 45,400 sila tanan tanan .
Gani ang bug-os nga kadamuon sang mga lalaki nga Israelinhon nga gin-census 601,730.
“Partihon mo sa ila ang duta bilang ila palanublion suno sa kadamuon sang kada tribo.
Ang tribo nga madamo, partihi sing dako, kag ang tribo nga diutay partihi sing gamay.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Levi amo ang mga pamilya ni Gershon, Kohat kag Merari.
Si Kohat amo ang katigulangan ni Amram;
kag ang asawa ni Amram amo si Jokebed nga kaliwat man man ni Levi. Natawo si Jokebed sa Egypt. Si Amram kag si Jokebed amo ang mga ginikanan ni Aaron, Moises, kag Miriam.
Hezron, kag Carmi.
Si Aaron amo ang amay nila ni Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, kag Itamar.
Pero napatay si Nadab kag si Abihu sang naggamit sila sang kalayo nga indi amo ang dapat nila gamiton sa ila paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang kadamuon sang mga lalaki nga kaliwat ni Levi nga nagaedad sing isa ka bulan paibabaw 23,000. Wala sila ginlakip sa kabilugan nga kadamuon sang mga Israelinhon kay wala sila ginpartihan sa duta nga ginpanubli sang mga Israelinhon.
Amo ato tanan ang mga Israelinhon nga gin-census ni Moises kag ni Eleazar nga pari didto sa kapatagan sang Moab sa higad sang Jordan malapit sa Jerico.
Wala na sing may nabilin nga buhi sa mga nalakip sa nahauna nga census nga ginhimo ni Moises kag ni Aaron nga pari sa kamingawan sang Sinai.
Kay nagsiling sadto ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila nga sigurado gid nga magkalamatay sila didto sa kamingawan, kag wala sing may makaluwas sa ila luwas lang gid kay Caleb nga anak ni Jefune kag kay Josue nga anak ni Nun.
Sila amo ang mga pamilya nga naghalin kay Reuben; 43,730 sila tanan tanan .
Ang anak ni Palu amo si Eliab,
kag ang mga anak ni Eliab amo sila ni Nemuel, Datan kag Abiram. Ining si Datan kag si Abiram amo ang mga pangulo sang komunidad nga nag-upod kay Kora sa pagrebelde sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagkontra kay Moises kag kay Aaron.
Si Zelofehad may mga anak nga babayi nga sila ni Mala, Noa, Hogla, Milca kag Tirza. Si Zelofehad nga ini anak ni Hefer kag apo ni Gilead. Si Gilead anak ni Makir kag apo ni Manase. Si Manase anak ni Jose.
Kon wala pa gid siya sing utod nga lalaki, ihatag ang iya duta sa iya mga tiyo sa amay.
Kon ang iya amay wala sing utod nga lalaki, ihatag ang iya duta sa pinakamalapit niya nga paryente, kag ang amo nga paryente ang magapanag-iya sini. Dapat tumanon ini sang mga Israelinhon bilang isa ka legal nga pagsulundan, suno sa ginsugo ko sa imo, Moises.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Magsaka ka sa bukid sang Abarim kag tan-awa didto ang duta nga ginhatag ko sa mga Israelinhon.
Pagkatapos mo nga makita ini, mapatay ka pareho sa imo utod nga si Aaron.
Kay sang nagrebelde ang komunidad sang Israel sa akon sang Israel sa akon didto sa tuburan sang kamingawan sang Zin, ginlapas ninyo ni Aaron ang akon sugo nga ipakita ang akon pagkabalaan sa katawhan.” (Ini nga tuburan amo ang Meriba Kadesh,
Nagsiling si Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo ,
“O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios nga ginahalinan sang kabuhi sang tanan nga tawo, kabay pa nga magpili ka sang isa ka tawo nga magpangulo sa sini nga komunidad,
sa pagpanguna sa ila sa inaway, para ang imo komunidad indi mangin pareho sa mga karnero nga wala sing manugbantay.”
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Ipatawag si Josue nga anak ni Nun, nga ginagamhan sang Espiritu, kag itungtong ang imo kamot sa iya ulo sa pag-ordinar sa iya bilang pangulo sa pag-ordinar sa iya bilang pangulo .
Patinduga siya sa atubangan ni Eleazar nga pari kag sa bilog nga komunidad, kag ipahibalo mo sa ila nga ginpili mo siya nga magbulos sa imo.
Karon, ini nga mga babayi nagkadto sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag nagtindog sa atubangan ni Moises, ni Eleazar, sang mga pangulo, kag sang bilog nga komunidad. Nagsiling ang mga babayi,
Ihatag sa iya ang iban mo nga awtoridad para tumanon siya sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel.
Kay Eleazar niya mahibaluan ang akon desisyon paagi sa paggamit ni Eleazar sang Urim
Ginhimo ni Moises ang ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpatawag niya si Josue kag ginpatindog sa atubangan ni Eleazar nga pari kag sang bilog nga komunidad.
Kag suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo , gintungtong niya ang iya mga kamot kay Josue kag ginpahibalo nga si Josue ang magabulos sa iya.
“Napatay ang amon amay didto sa kamingawan nga wala sing anak nga lalaki. Pero napatay siya indi tungod nga sumulunod siya ni Kora nga nagrebelde sa Ginoo Ginoo , kundi tungod sa iya kaugalingon nga sala.
Ti, dulaon na lang bala ang iya ngalan sa panimalay sang Israel tungod kay wala siya sing anak nga lalaki? Hatagi man kami sang duta pareho sang nabaton sang amon mga paryente.”
Gani ginsugid ni Moises sa Ginoo Ginoo ang ila ginapangayo,
“Husto ang ginasiling sang mga anak nga babayi ni Zelofehad. Kinahanglan nga hatagan mo man sila sang duta kaupod sa mga paryente sang ila amay. Ihatag sa ila ang duta nga para kuntani sa ila amay.
“Kag silingon mo ang mga Israelinhon nga kon mapatay ang isa ka tawo nga wala sing anak nga lalaki, kinahanglan nga ihatag sa iya anak nga babayi ang iya duta.
Kon wala siya sing anak nga babayi, ihatag sa iya mga utod nga lalaki.
Amo ini ang halad nga ginasunog kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, wala labot sa pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad lakip ang iya sini nga halad nga ilimnon.
“Sa kada nahauna nga adlaw nga adlaw sang bulan maghalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang halad nga ginasunog. Ang inyo ihalad duha ka bataon nga baka, isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
Ang kada bataon nga baka lakipan sang halad nga ilimnon nga duha ka litro nga bino. Ang gulang nga karnero lakipan sang isa kag tunga ka litro nga bino. Kag ang kada bataon nga karnero lakipan sang isa ka litro nga bino. Amo ini ang binulan nga halad nga ginasunog nga inyo pagahimuon sa kada umpisa sang bulan sa bilog nga tuig.
Maghalad pa gid kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang isa ka kanding nga lalaki bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo. Himuon ninyo ini wala labot sang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog kag sa iya sini nga halad nga ilimnon.
“Saulugon ninyo ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sa ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw magasugod ang pito ka adlaw nga pito ka adlaw nga piesta. Kag sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw indi kamo magkaon sang tinapay nga may inugpahabok.
Maghalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang halad nga paagi sa kalayo. Ini nga halad nga ginasunog duha ka bataon nga baka, isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga kinahanglan maghalad sila sa akon sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
Lakipan ninyo ini sang halad nga regalo nga maayo nga klase nga harina kag ginmikslahan sang mantika—anom ka kilo sa kada bataon nga baka, apat ka kilo sa gulang nga karnero
kag duha ka kilo sa kada bataon nga karnero.
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para mapatawad kamo sa inyo mga sala.
Ihalad ninyo ini nga mga halad wala labot sang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog kada aga.
Sa amo nga paagi ihalad ninyo ini nga mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo bilang pagkaon sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Himuon ninyo ini kada adlaw sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Ang kahamot sini nga mga halad makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ihalad ninyo ini wala labot sang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog kag sang iya sini halad nga ilimnon.
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, indi kamo liwat mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
“Sa nahauna nga adlaw sang Piesta sang Pag-ani, sa tion nga maghalad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang bag-o nga ani nga uyas, indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Maghalad kamo sang halad nga ginasunog: duha ka bataon nga baka, isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ang kahamot sini nga mga halad makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Lakipan ninyo ini sang halad nga regalo nga maayo nga klase nga harina kag ginmikslahan sang mantika—anom ka kilo sa kada bataon nga baka, apat ka kilo sa gulang nga karnero,
Amo ini ang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo nga inyo ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo : duha ka karnero nga isa ka tuig ang edad kag wala sing deperensya. Ihalad ninyo ini permi kada adlaw bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka kanding nga lalaki para matubos kamo sa inyo mga sala.
Ihalad ninyo ini upod sang ila mga halad nga ilimnon, wala labot sang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog kag sang iya sini nga halad nga regalo. Kinahanglan nga ang mga sapat wala sing deperensya.
Ang isa ihalad sa aga kag ang isa sa hapon,
lakip ang halad nga regalo nga duha ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase kag ginmikslahan sang isa ka litro nga mantika nga halin sa olibo nga ginbayo.
Amo ini ang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga inyo sunugon, nga ginsugo sadto sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo sa Bukid sang Sinai. Ang kahamot sini nga halad nga paagi sa kalayo makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang halad nga ilimnon nga ilakip sa kada karnero, mga isa ka litro nga bino, kag ibubo ini sa balaan nga lugar para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo man ang inyo himuon sa ikaduha nga karnero nga ihalad ninyo sa hapon. Lakipan man ninyo ini sang halad nga regalo kag halad nga ilimnon. Halad ini nga paagi sa kalayo, kag ang kahamot sini makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo .
“Sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, maghalad kamo sang duha ka karnero nga isa ka tuig ang edad kag wala sing deperensya, lakip ang halad nga ilimnon kag ang halad nga regalo nga apat ka kilo nga harina nga maayo nga klase kag ginmikslahan sang mantika.
“Sa nahauna nga adlaw sang ikapito nga bulan, indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Sa sina nga adlaw patunugon ninyo ang mga trumpeta.
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo, wala labot sa isa pa ka halad sa pagpakatinlo para matubos kamo sa inyo mga sala kag sa pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog nga may upod nga halad nga regalo, kag sa ila sini mga halad nga ilimnon.
“Sa ika-15 nga adlaw sa amo gihapon nga bulan, indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon naman kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Maghiwat kamo sang piesta para sa Ginoo Ginoo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Maghalad kamo sang halad nga ginasunog. Halad ini nga paagi sa kalayo nga ang kahamot makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo . Sa nahauna nga adlaw amo ini ang inyo ihalad Sa nahauna nga adlaw amo ini ang inyo ihalad : 13 ka bataon nga baka, duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 14 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
Lakipan ninyo ini sang halad nga regalo nga maayo nga klase nga harina kag ginmikslahan sang mantika—anom ka kilo sa kada bataon nga baka, apat ka kilo sa kada gulang nga karnero,
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo, wala labot sang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog nga may upod nga halad nga regalo kag halad nga ilimnon.
“Sa ikaduha nga adlaw sang piesta sang piesta , amo ini ang inyo ihalad: dose ka bataon nga baka, duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 14 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
Ang kada isa sini lakipan ninyo sang husto nga kadamuon sang halad nga regalo kag halad nga ilimnon.
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka kanding nga lalaki bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo, wala labot sa pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog nga may upod nga halad nga regalo kag halad nga ilimnon.
Dayon maghalad kamo sang halad nga ginasunog nga ang kahamot sini makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo : isa ka bataon nga baka, isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
“Sa ikatatlo nga adlaw sang piesta sang piesta , amo ini ang inyo ihalad: onse ka bataon nga baka, duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 14 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka kanding nga lalaki bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo, wala labot sa pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog kag sang iya sini nga halad nga regalo kag halad nga ilimnon.
“Sa ikaapat nga adlaw sang piesta sang piesta , amo ini ang inyo ihalad: napulo ka bataon nga baka, duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 14 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
“Sa ikalima nga adlaw sang piesta sang piesta , amo ini ang inyo ihalad: siyam ka bataon nga baka, duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 14 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka kanding nga lalaki bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo, wala labot sang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog nga may upod nga halad nga regalo kag halad nga ilimnon.
“Sa ikaanom nga adlaw sang piesta sang piesta , amo ini ang inyo ihalad: walo ka bataon nga baka, duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 14 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
“Sa ikapito nga adlaw sang piesta sang piesta , amo ini ang inyo ihalad: pito ka bataon nga baka, duha ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 14 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
“Sa ikawalo nga adlaw, indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Maghalad kamo sang halad nga ginasunog. Halad ini nga paagi sa kalayo nga ang kahamot makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo : isa ka bataon nga baka, isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki kag pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
“Wala labot sang inyo mga halad sa pagtuman sang inyo panaad kag mga halad nga kinabubut-on, maghalad man kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sa natalana nga mga piesta sang sini nga mga halad: mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga regalo, mga halad nga ilimnon, kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.”
Ginsiling ini tanan ni Moises sa mga Israelinhon suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Maghalad man kamo sang isa ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para matubos kamo sa inyo mga sala.
Ihalad ninyo ini wala labot sang binulan kag pang-adlaw-adlaw nga mga halad nga ginasunog nga may upod nga mga halad nga regalo kag mga halad nga ilimnon. Mga halad ini nga paagi sa kalayo,
“Sa ikanapulo nga adlaw sa sining ikapito nga bulan, magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kinahanglan nga magpuasa kamo kag indi gid mag-obra.
Dayon maghalad kamo sang mga halad nga ginasunog nga ang kahamot sini makapalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo : isa ka bataon nga baka, isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga isa ka tuig ang edad. Ini tanan kinahanglan wala sing deperensya.
Nagsiling si Moises sa mga pangulo sang mga tribo sang Israel, “Amo ini ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo :
“Kon ang isa ka babayi nga may bana magpanaad ukon magsumpa nga himuon niya ukon indi ang isa ka butang,
kag mahibaluan ini sang iya bana pero maghipos lang siya kag indi magpamalabag, kinahanglan nga tumanon niya ini.
Pero kon magpamalabag ang iya bana pagkahibalo niya sini, indi kinahanglan nga tumanon niya. Patawaron siya sang Ginoo Ginoo kay nagpamalabag ang iya bana.
Gani ang iya bana may kinamatarong sa pagtugot ukon pagbaliwala sang bisan ano nga iya ginsaad ukon ginsumpa.
Pero kon wala magpamalabag ang iya bana sa sina mismo nga adlaw nga nahibaluan niya ini, nagatugot ang iya bana nga tumanon niya ini.
Pero kon ginpaligad pa sang iya bana ang pila ka adlaw antes magpamalabag, ang iya bana ang silutan sa iya sala.”
Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises parte sa bana kag sa iya asawa, kag parte sa amay kag sa iya bataon nga anak nga babayi nga nagaestar pa sa iya panimalay.
Kon ang isa ka lalaki magpanaad ukon magsumpa sa Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon niya ukon indi ang isa ka butang, kinahanglan nga tumanon gid niya ang tanan niya nga ginsiling.
“Kon ang isa ka bataon nga babayi nga nagaestar gihapon sa panimalay sang iya amay magpanaad ukon magsumpa sa Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon niya ukon indi ang isa ka butang,
kag mahibaluan ini sang iya amay pero indi siya magpamalabag, kinahanglan tumanon niya ini.
Pero kon magpamalabag ang iya amay pagkahibalo niya sini, indi kinahanglan nga tumanon niya. Patawaron siya sang Ginoo Ginoo kay nagpamalabag ang iya amay.
“Halimbawa, ang isa ka bataon nga babayi magpanaad ukon magsumpa nga himuon niya ukon indi ang isa ka butang, kag sang ulihi magpamana siya. Bisan padasodaso man ukon indi ang iya pagpromisa,
kon mahibaluan ini sang iya bana pero ang iya bana indi magpamalabag, kinahanglan nga tumanon niya ini.
Pero kon magpamalabag ang iya bana pagkahibalo niya sini, indi kinahanglan nga tumanon niya, bisan padasodaso man ini ukon indi, kag patawaron siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Kon ang isa ka babayi nga balo ukon babayi nga ginbulagan sang iya bana magpanaad ukon magsumpa nga himuon niya ukon indi ang isa ka butang, kinahanglan nga tumanon gid niya ini.
Ginpangsunog nila ang tanan nga banwa pati ang tanan nga kampo sang mga Midianhon.
Ginpangdala nila ang tanan nga ila naagaw, pati mga tawo kag mga sapat,
kay Moises, kay Eleazar nga pari, kag sa komunidad sang Israel didto sa ila kampo sa kapatagan sang Moab, sa higad sang Jordan malapit sa Jerico.
Ginsugata sila ni Moises, ni Eleazar nga pari, kag sang mga pangulo sang komunidad sang Israel sang Israel sa guwa sang kampo.
Naakig si Moises sa mga opisyal sang mga soldado nga naghalin sa inaway.
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Ngaa wala ninyo pagpamatya ang mga babayi?
Sila ang mga nagsunod sa laygay ni Balaam sa pagganyat sa mga Israelinhon sa pagsikway sa Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Peor, kag tungod sini nag-abot ang kahalitan sa komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani pamatya ninyo ang tanan nga bata nga lalaki, kag ang tanan nga babayi nga nakaagi hulid sa lalaki.
Pero ibilin ninyo para sa inyo ang mga babayi nga wala pa nakaagi hulid sa lalaki.
Ang tanan sa inyo nga nakapatay ukon nakatandog sang patay kinahanglan nga magpabilin sa guwa sang kampo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Sa ikatatlo kag sa ikapito nga adlaw, kinahanglan nga magpakatinlo kamo
“Balusi ang mga Midianhon tungod sang ila ginhimo sa mga Israelinhon. Pagkatapos mo nga mahimo ina, mapatay ka na.”
Tinlui ninyo ang tanan ninyo nga bayo, pati ang tanan ninyo nga kagamitan nga hinimo halin sa panit ukon sa balahibo sang kanding ukon sa kahoy.”
Dayon nagsiling si Eleazar nga pari sa mga soldado nga nagkadto sa inaway, “Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan sang kasuguan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises:
Sa ikapito nga adlaw, kinahanglan nga labhan ninyo ang inyo mga bayo, kag dayon kabigon na kamo nga matinlo, kag makasulod na kamo sa kampo.”
“Isipa ninyo ni Eleazar nga pari kag sang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang komunidad ang tanan nga tawo kag sapat nga nabihag.
Tungaon ninyo ini sa mga soldado nga nagpakig-away kag sa komunidad.
Halin sa parte sang mga soldado, magpain ka para sa Ginoo Ginoo sang isa sa kada 500 nga mga bihag, tawo man ukon baka, donkey, karnero, ukon kanding.
Ihatag mo ini kay Eleazar nga pari bilang parte sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani nagsiling si Moises sa mga tawo, “Magpreparar ang iban sa inyo sa pagpakig-away sa mga Midianhon kay gusto sang Ginoo Ginoo nga balusan ta ang mga Midianhon.
Halin sa parte sang mga Israelinhon, magpain ka sang isa sa kada 50 ka bihag, tawo man ukon baka, donkey, karnero, kanding ukon iban nga mga sapat. Ihatag ini sa mga Levita nga amo ang responsable sa pag-atipan sang Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gani ginhimo ni Moises kag ni Eleazar nga pari ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Ang kada tribo magpadala sang 1,000 ka tawo sa inaway.”
Ginhatag ni Moises kay Eleazar nga pari ang parte sang Ginoo Ginoo suno sa ginsugo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Halin sa sining parte sang mga Israelinhon, nagpain si Moises sang isa sa kada 50 ka tawo ukon sapat suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya. Kag ginhatag niya ini sa mga Levita nga amo ang responsable sa pag-atipan sang Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagkadto kay Moises ang mga opisyal sang mga soldado
kag nagsiling sa iya, “Sir, gin-isip namon ang mga soldado nga sakop namon kag wala gid sing bisan isa nga kulang.
Gani 12,000 ka tawo nga naghalin sa dose ka tribo sang Israel ang nagpreparar para sa inaway.
Gani ginahalad namon sa Ginoo Ginoo ang bulawan nga mga butang nga amon nakuha sa inaway—mga pulseras sa butkon kag sa kamot, mga singsing, mga aritos, kag mga kulintas, para makalikaw kami sa silot sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Ginbaton ni Moises kag ni Eleazar ining tanan nga bulawan nga mga alahas.
Ang kabug-aton sang sini nga mga bulawan nga gindala sang mga opisyal sang mga soldado, nga ginhalad ni Moises kag ni Eleazar sa Ginoo, Ginoo, mga 200 ka kilo.
Halin ini sa mga nakuha sang tagsa ka soldado sa inaway.
Pagkabaton ni Moises kag ni Eleazar sang mga bulawan halin sa mga opisyal, gindala nila ini sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan para dumdumon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon.
Ginpadala sila ni Moises sa inaway, 1,000 halin sa kada tribo, nga ginapanguluhan ni Finehas nga anak ni Eleazar nga pari. Nagdala si Finehas sang mga kagamitan halin sa balaan nga Tolda Tolda kag mga trumpeta para sa pagpaandam.
Nagpakig-away sila sa mga Midianhon, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises kag ginpamatay nila ang tanan nga lalaki.
Lakip sa ginpamatay nila amo ang lima ka hari sang Midian nga sila ni Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, kag Reba. Ginpatay man nila si Balaam nga anak ni Beor paagi sa espada.
Ginbihag nila ang mga Midianhon nga mga babayi kag mga bata, kag ginpanguha nila ang ila mga kasapatan kag mga pagkabutang.
Ang mga tribo ni Reuben kag ni Gad may madamo gid nga mga kasapatan. Gani pagkakita nila nga ang duta sang Jazer kag Gilead maayo nga lugar para sa mga kasapatan,
Puwerte gid ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sadto nga adlaw kag nagsumpa siya:
‘Tungod kay wala sila nagsunod sa akon sing tinagipusuon, wala sing bisan isa sa ila nga nagaedad sing 20 ka tuig paibabaw nga naghalin sa Egypt nga makakita sang duta nga ginpromisa ko kay Abraham, Isaac kag Jacob
luwas lang kay Caleb nga anak ni Jefune nga Keniznon kag kay Josue nga anak ni Nun, kay nagsunod sila sa akon sing tinagipusuon.’
Puwerte ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon. Gani ginpatalang-talang niya sila sa kamingawan sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig, hasta nga nagkalamatay atong bilog nga henerasyon nga naghimo sang malain sa iya panulok.
“Kag karon, kamo nga mga kaliwat sang mga makasasala amo naman ang nagbulos sa inyo mga katigulangan kag ginadugangan pa gid ninyo ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Kon indi kamo magsunod sa Ginoo Ginoo pabay-an niya liwat ini nga katawhan diri sa kamingawan, kag kamo ang mangin kabangdanan sang ila kalaglagan.”
Pero nagpalapit pa sila kay Moises kag nagsiling, “Mahimo lang kami diri sang mga toril para sa amon mga kasapatan, kag mga banwa para sa amon mga kababayihan kag kabataan.
Pero handa kami sa pagpanguna sa amon kapareho nga mga Israelinhon sa pagpakig-away hasta nga madala namon sila sa ila mga lugar. Samtang nagapakig-away kami, diri lang ang amon mga kababayihan kag kabataan mag-estar sa napaderan nga mga banwa para hilway sila sa mga pumuluyo sang sini nga duta.
Indi kami magpuli hasta nga ang tanan nga Israelinhon makabaton sang duta nga ila palanublion.
Pero indi namon gusto nga makabaton sang duta upod sa ila sa tabok sang Jordan. Kay ang duta diri sa east sang Jordan amo ang amon palanublion.”
nagkadto sila kay Moises, Eleazar, kag sa mga pangulo sang komunidad sang Israel sang Israel kag nagsiling,
Nagsiling si Moises sa ila, “Kon desidido gid man kamo sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mag-upod sa inaway,
kag magtabok ang tanan ninyo nga soldado sa Jordan hasta nga matabog sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya mga kaaway,
kag mapanag-iyahan ang duta, ti, puwede na kamo makabalik diri kay natuman na ninyo ang inyo obligasyon sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sa kapareho ninyo nga Israelinhon. Kag ini nga duta mangin inyo na sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Pero kon indi ninyo ini paghimuon, makasala kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag sigurado gid nga bayaran ninyo ang inyo sala.
Sige, Sige, magtukod kamo sang mga banwa para sa inyo nga kababayihan kag mga kabataan, kag maghimo sang mga toril para sa inyo mga kasapatan, pero dapat tumanon ninyo ang inyo ginpromisa.”
Nagsabat ang mga tribo ni Gad kag ni Reuben kay Moises, “Sir, tumanon namon ang imo mga sugo.
Magapabilin diri sa mga banwa sang Gilead ang amon mga asawa, mga kabataan, kag mga kasapatan.
Pero kami ya nga makasarang sa pagpakig-away magatabok sa Jordan sa pagpakig-away suno sa sugo mo sa amon.”
Gani nagmando si Moises kay Eleazar nga pari, kay Josue nga anak ni Nun, kag sa mga pangulo sang mga tribo sang Israel.
Siling niya, “Kon desidido gid man sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga tribo ni Gad kag ni Reuben nga magtabok sa Jordan sa pagpakig-away, kag kon maagaw na ninyo ang amo nga duta, ihatag ninyo sa ila ang duta sang Gilead para ila panag-iyahan.
“Ang Atarot, Dibon, Jazer, Nimra, Heshbon, Eleale, Sebam, Nebo, kag Beon—
Pero kon indi gani sila magtabok upod sa inyo, ti dapat magbaton sila sang duta upod sa inyo didto sa duta sang Canaan.”
Nagsiling ang mga tribo ni Gad kag ni Reuben, “Sir, tumanon namon ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Desidido kami sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magtabok sa Jordan pakadto sa Canaan sa pagpakig-away, pero ang amon palanublion nga duta amo ining diri sa east sang Jordan.”
Gani ginhatag ni Moises sa mga tribo ni Gad, ni Reuben, kag sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase nga anak ni Jose ang ginharian ni Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon kag ang ginharian ni Og nga hari sang Bashan—ang bilog gid nga duta pati ang mga banwa kag mga teritoryo sa palibot sini.
Gintukod liwat sang tribo ni Gad ang Dibon, Atarot, Aroer,
Atrot Shofan, Jazer, Jogbeha,
Bet Nimra, kag Bet Haran. Ini nga mga banwa ginpalibutan nila sang pader. Naghimo man sila sang mga toril para sa ila mga kasapatan.
Kag gintukod liwat sang mga tribo ni Reuben ang Heshbon, Eleale, Kiriataim
pati ang mga lugar nga ginatawag anay nga Nebo kag Baal Meon, kag ang Sibma. Gin-ilisan nila ang mga ngalan sang mga banwa nga ila gintukod liwat.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Makir nga anak ni Manase nagsalakay sa Gilead, kag naagaw nila ini kag ginpangtabog nila ang mga Amornon nga nagaestar didto.
ang mga lugar nga ginlaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa mga Israelinhon—maayo nga lugar para sa mga kasapatan, kag kami madamo sang kasapatan.
Gani ginhatag ni Moises ang Gilead sa mga kaliwat ni Makir, nga mga kaliwat man ni Manase, kag didto sila nag-estar.
Si Jair nga kaliwat man ni Manase nakaagaw sang mga baryo sa Gilead kag gin-ngalanan niya ini nga “Mga Baryo ni Jair.”
Naagaw ni Noba ang Kenat kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sini kag gintawag niya ini nga “Noba” suno sa iya ngalan.
Gani kon nalipay ka sa amon, sir, ihatag ini nga mga duta sa amon bilang amon parte. Indi kami pagpaestara sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.”
Nagsiling si Moises sa mga tribo ni Gad kag ni Reuben, “Ano ang buot ninyo silingon, mapabilin lang kamo diri samtang ang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon magkadto sa inaway?
Ginapalas-ay lang ninyo ang mga Israelinhon sa pagkadto sa duta nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
Amo man ini ang ginhimo sadto sang inyo mga katigulangan sang ginpadala ko sila halin sa Kadesh Barnea sa pagtan-aw sang sini nga duta.
Sang nakaabot sila sa Eshcol nga ililigan sang tubig kag nakita nila ang duta, ginpalas-ay nila ang mga Israelinhon sa pagkadto sa duta nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
Amo ini ang mga lugar nga ginpang-agyan sang mga Israelinhon sang naghalin ang ila mga tribo sa Egypt, sa idalom sang pagpanguna ni Moises kag ni Aaron.
Halin sa Elim, nagkampo sila sa higad sang Mapula nga Dagat.
Halin sa Mapula nga Dagat, nagkampo sila sa kamingawan sang Sin.
Halin sa kamingawan sang Sin, nagkampo sila sa Dofka.
Halin sa Dofka, nagkampo sila sa Alush.
Halin sa Alush, nagkampo sila sa Refidim, nga sa diin wala sing tubig nga mainom ang mga tawo.
Halin sa Refidim, nagkampo sila sa kamingawan sang Sinai.
Halin sa kamingawan sang Sinai nagkampo sila sa Kibrot Hataava.
Halin sa Kibrot Hataava nagkampo sila sa Hazerot.
Halin sa Hazerot nagkampo sila sa Ritmah.
Halin sa Ritmah nagkampo sila sa Rimon Perez.
Suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginlista ni Moises ang ila ginpang-agyan nga mga lugar halin sa ila ginhalinan.
Halin sa Rimon Perez nagkampo sila sa Libna.
Halin sa Libna nagkampo sila sa Risa.
Halin sa Risa nagkampo sila sa Kehelata.
Halin sa Kehelata nagkampo sila sa Bukid sang Shefer.
Halin sa Bukid sang Shefer nagkampo sila sa Harada.
Halin sa Harada nagkampo sila sa Makhelot.
Halin sa Makhelot nagkampo sila sa Tahat.
Halin sa Tahat nagkampo sila sa Tera.
Halin sa Tera nagkampo sila sa Mitca.
Halin sa Mitca nagkampo sila sa Hashmona.
Naghalin sila sa Rameses sang ika-15 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan pagkatapos sang hitabo nga amo ang ginsuguran sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Naghalin sila nga may kaisog samtang nagatan-aw ang mga Egyptohanon
Halin sa Hashmona nagkampo sila sa Moserot.
Halin sa Moserot nagkampo sila sa Bene Jaakan.
Halin sa Bene Jaakan nagkampo sila sa Hor Hagidgad.
Halin sa Hor Hagidgad nagkampo sila sa Jotbata.
Halin sa Jotbata nagkampo sila sa Abrona.
Halin sa Abrona nagkampo sila sa Ezion Geber.
Halin sa Ezion Geber nagkampo sila sa Kadesh, sa kamingawan sang Zin.
Halin sa Kadesh, nagkampo sila sa Bukid sang Hor, sa border sang duta sang Edom.
nga nagalubong sang tanan nila nga kamagulangan nga lalaki nga ginpamatay sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa iya paghukom sa ila mga dios-dios.
Sadto nga tion, ang Canaanhon nga hari sang Arad, nga nagaestar sa Negev nga sakop sang Canaan, nakabalita nga nagapadulong ang katawhan sang Israel.
Nagkampo sila didto sa higad sang Jordan halin sa Bet Jeshimot hasta sa Abel Shitim, nga sakop gihapon sang kapatagan sang Moab.
Halin sa Rameses, nagkampo sila sa Sucot.
Kag samtang nagakampo sila didto sa kapatagan sang Moab, sa higad sang Jordan malapit sa Jerico, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga kon magtabok sila sa Suba sang Jordan pakadto sa Canaan,
palayason nila ang tanan nga pumuluyo didto kag panggub-on ang tanan nila nga mga dios-dios nga hinimo halin sa mga bato kag metal, kag ang tanan nila nga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar.
Panag-iyahan ninyo ang amo nga duta kag didto kamo mag-estar, kay ginahatag ko ini sa inyo.
Partidahon ninyo ang duta paagi sa paggabot-gabot, suno sa kadamuon sang kada tribo. Ang tribo nga madamo partihi sing dako, kag ang tribo nga diutay partihi sing gamay. Ang bisan ano nga ila magabutan amo na gid ina ang ila parte. Sa sini nga paagi mapartida ang duta suno sa kada tribo.
“Pero kon indi gani ninyo pagpalayason ang mga pumuluyo didto, ang mga mabilin sa ila mangin sablag sa inyo nga pareho sa puling sa inyo mga mata kag mga tunok sa inyo mga kilid. Magahatag sila sang kagamo sa inyo pag-estar didto.
Kag himuon ko sa inyo ang silot nga himuon ko sa ila.”
Halin sa Sucot, nagkampo sila sa Etam, sa higad sang kamingawan.
Halin sa Etam, nagbalik sila pakadto sa Pi Hahirot nga ara sa east sang Baal Zefon, kag nagkampo sila malapit sa Migdol.
Halin sa Pi Hahirot, nagtabok sila sa dagat kag nagpakadto sa kamingawan. Naglakat sila sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw sa kamingawan sang Etam, kag nagkampo sila sa Mara.
Halin sa Mara, nagkampo sila sa Elim, nga sa diin may dose ka tuburan kag 70 ka kahoy nga palma.
“Ang border sa east magahalin sa Hazar Enan pakadto sa Shefam.
Dayon magadulhog ini pakadto sa Ribla, sa east sang Ain, kag magapadayon ini sa mga bulobukid sa east sang Dagat sang Galilea.
“Amo ini ang inyo duta, kag ang iya mga border sa palibot.”
Dayon nagsiling si Moises sa mga Israelinhon, “Partidahon ninyo ini nga duta bilang palanublion ninyo paagi sa paggabot-gabot. Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihatag ini sa siyam kag tunga nga tribo,
“Si Eleazar nga pari kag si Josue nga anak ni Nun amo ang magapartida sang duta para sa mga tawo.
Kag magpili ka sang isa ka pangulo sa kada tribo sa pagbulig sa ila sa pagpartida sang duta.”
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga kon magsulod na sila sa Canaan, amo ini ang border sang duta nga ila palanublion:
Sila ang mga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagbulig partida sang duta sang Canaan bilang palanublion sang mga Israelinhon.
“Ang border sa south amo ang kamingawan sang Zin, sa border sang Edom. Magasugod ini sa south sang Patay nga Dagat.
Dayon magaliko ini pa-south pakadto sa Taklaran sang Akrabim, hasta sa kamingawan sang Zin, kag magapadayon sa south sang Kadesh Barnea. Dayon magaderetso ini sa Hazar Addar hasta sa Azmon,
kag magaliko pakadto sa ililigan sang tubig sang Egypt, kag magatapos sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo .
“Ang border sa west amo ang Dagat sang Mediteraneo.
“Ang border sa north magahalin sa Mediteraneo pakadto sa Bukid sang Hor,
kag halin sa Bukid sang Hor pakadto sa Lebo Hamat. Magapadayon ini sa Zedad
hasta sa Zifron kag magatapos sa Hazar Enan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises didto sa kapatagan sang Moab sa higad sang Jordan malapit sa Jerico,
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga kon magtabok na sila sa Jordan pakadto sa Canaan,
magpili sila sang mga banwa nga mangin mga banwa nga dalangpan nga sa diin makapalagyo ang tawo nga makapatay nga indi niya hungod.
Maproteksyunan siya sa sini nga mga banwa sa mga tawo nga gusto magbalos sa iya. Indi siya dapat pagpatyon sa wala pa siya mahukman sa atubangan sang komunidad.
Ining anom ka banwa mangin dalangpan indi lamang sang mga Israelinhon, kundi pati man sang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa ila, para ang bisan sin-o sa ila nga makapatay nga indi hungod makapalagyo sa sina nga mga banwa.
“Pero kon ginlampusan sang tawo ang isa ka tawo sang salsalon kag napatay ini, kabigon nga kriminal ang amo nga tawo, kag kinahanglan nga patyon man siya.
Kon ginbato sang isa ka tawo ang isa ka tawo kag napatay ini, kabigon nga kriminal ang amo nga tawo kag kinahanglan nga patyon man siya.
Ukon halimbawa ginlampusan sang isa ka tawo sang kahoy ang isa ka tawo kag napatay ini, kabigon man nga kriminal ang amo nga tawo, kag kinahanglan nga patyon man siya.
Ang malapit nga paryente sang ginpatay amo ang may katungdanan sa pagpatay sa kriminal. Patyon niya ang kriminal kon makita niya.
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga hatagan nila ang mga Levita sang mga banwa nga ila estaran halin sa duta nga mabaton nila. Kag hatagan man nila sila sang mga palahalban
“Kon tungod sa iya dumot nakapatay ang isa ka tawo paagi sa pagtikwang, ukon paghaboy sang bisan ano nga butang,
ukon pagsumbag, kabigon nga kriminal ang amo nga tawo kag kinahanglan nga patyon man siya. Ang malapit nga paryente sang ginpatay amo ang may katungdanan sa pagpatay sa kriminal. Patyon niya ang kriminal kon makita niya.
“Pero halimbawa ang isa ka tawo nga wala man lang sing dumot nakapatay sang isa ka tawo nga indi niya hungod paagi sa pagtikwang ukon paghaboy sa iya sang bisan ano nga butang,
ukon nahulugan niya siya sang bato nga wala niya makita. Tungod nga napatay ang tawo bisan indi niya siya kaaway, kag indi niya hungod ang pagpatay sa iya,
dapat dal-on siya sa komunidad kaupod sang tawo nga gusto magbalos sa iya kag ipatuman ini nga mga pagsulundan:
Kinahanglan nga protektaran siya sang komunidad sa mga tawo nga gusto magbalos sa iya, kag ibalik siya sa banwa nga dalangpan, nga sa diin siya nagpalagyo. Kinahanglan nga magpabilin siya didto hasta nga mapatay ang pangulo nga pari nga gindedikar sa pag-alagad.
“Pero kon ang nakapatay magguwa sa banwa nga dalangpan
kag makita siya sang tawo nga gusto magbalos sa iya, puwede siya patyon sang amo nga tawo. Ini nga tawo nga nagbalos wala sing salabton.
Gani ang nakapatay dapat magpabilin gid sa banwa nga dalangpan hasta nga mapatay ang pangulo nga pari, kag pagkatapos makapuli na siya sa ila.
“Amo ini ang mga pagsulundan nga dapat tumanon ninyo hasta san-o, bisan diin kamo mag-estar.
Sa sini nga paagi may maestaran sila nga mga banwa kag may mapahalban para sa ila mga kasapatan.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga nagpatay sang iya isigkatawo kinahanglan nga patyon, pero kinahanglan may mga saksi nga magpamatuod nga nakapatay siya. Kon isa lang ka saksi ang magpamatuod, indi pagpatyon ang amo nga tawo.
“Indi kamo magbaton sang bayad para sa kabuhi sang kriminal nga palatyon. Kinahanglan nga patyon gid siya.
Indi man kamo magbaton sang bayad para sa kabuhi sang tawo nga nagpalagyo sa banwa nga dalangpan para makabalik siya sa iya lugar antes mapatay ang pangulo nga pari.
Sa sini nga paagi malikawan ang pagdagta sa duta nga inyo ginaestaran, kay ang pagpatay nagapadagta sa duta. Kag wala sing makatinlo sini luwas sa kamatayon sang nagpatay.
Gani indi ninyo pagdagtai ang duta nga inyo ginaestaran, kay ako mismo ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagapuyo upod sa inyo nga mga Israelinhon.”
Ang mga palahalban nga inyo ihatag sa palibot sang tagsa nila ka banwa may distansya nga 1,500 feet halin sa pader sang ila banwa.
Sa palibot sang tagsa nila ka banwa, magtakos kamo sang 3,000 feet sa kada direksyon—sa east, south, west, kag north—nga ang banwa ara sa tunga sini. Amo ini ang palahalban para sa ila mga banwa.
“Hatagan man ninyo ang mga Levita sang anom ka banwa nga mangin banwa nga dalangpan, nga sa diin makapalagyo didto ang tawo nga makapatay nga indi niya hungod nga indi niya hungod . Ini wala labot sa 42 ka banwa nga inyo ihatag sa ila.
Gani 48 tanan ka banwa ang inyo ihatag sa mga Levita lakip na ang ila mga palahalban.
Ini nga mga banwa magahalin sa mga duta sang mga tribo sang Israel. Ang tribo nga madamo maghatag sing madamo nga banwa, kag ang tribo nga diutay maghatag sing diutay.”
Karon, ang mga pangulo sang pamilya ni Gilead nga anak ni Makir kag apo ni Manase, nga anak ni Jose, nagkadto kay Moises kag sa mga pangulo sang Israel,
Gani gintuman sang mga anak nga babayi ni Zelofehad ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
Ang mga anak nga babayi ni Zelofehad amo sila ni Mala, Tirza, Hogla, Milca kag Noa. Kag ang ila napamana amo ang ila mga pakaisa sa bahin sang ila amay,
nga mga kaliwat ni Manase nga anak ni Jose. Gani ang duta nga ila napanubli nagpabilin sa panimalay kag tribo sang ila amay.
Amo ato ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon paagi kay Moises samtang didto sila sa kapatagan sang Moab sa higad sang Jordan, malapit sa Jerico.
kag nagsiling, “Sir, sang nagmando sa imo ang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpartida sang duta bilang palanublion sang mga Israelinhon paagi sa paggabot-gabot, nagmando man siya nga ihatag ang parte sang amon utod nga si Zelofehad sa iya mga anak nga babayi.
Pero halimbawa magpamana sila sa iban nga mga tribo, kag tungod sini ang ila duta makadto na sa tribo sang ila mapamana. Ti, ang duta nga parte sang amon tribo, makadto na sa iban.
Pag-abot sang Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli, ang ila duta magakadto sa tribo nga sa diin sila nakapamana, kag madula na ini sa tribo sang amon mga katigulangan.”
Gani suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagsiling si Moises sa mga Israelinhon, “Husto ang ginasiling sang tribo sang mga kaliwat ni Jose.
Gani amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa mga anak nga babayi ni Zelofehad: Makapamana sila sa ila magustuhan basta sa ila lang tribo.
Ang duta nga napanubli sang kada tribo indi puwede nga magkadto sa iban nga mga tribo, kay kinahanglan nga magpabilin sa kada tribo ang duta nga ila napanubli sa ila katigulangan.
Ang tanan nga babayi nga nakapanubli sang duta sa ila nga tribo kinahanglan nga magpamana sa ila lang tribo, para matipigan sang kada Israelinhon ang duta nga ginpanubli niya sa iya katigulangan.
Ang duta nga napanubli sang kada tribo indi puwede nga magkadto sa iban nga mga tribo, kay kinahanglan nga magpabilin sa kada tribo ang duta nga ila napanubli.”
Ini nga libro parte sa nga libro parte sa mga mensahi nga ginsiling ni Moises sa tanan nga Israelinhon samtang didto sila sa kamingawan, sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Nagakampo sila sa Kapatagan sang Jordan
Ginpadamo kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag karon daw pareho na kamo kadamo sa mga bituon sa langit.
Kabay pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan, magpadamo pa gid sa inyo sing linibo pa ka pilo kag pakamaayuhon niya kamo suno sa iya ginpromisa.
Pero paano ko mahusay ang inyo mga pag-ilinaway kag mga problema nga ako lang?
Gani magpili kamo sa tagsa ninyo ka tribo sang mga tawo nga maalamon, may maayo nga pag-intiendi kag talahuron, kag padumalahon ko sila sa inyo.’
“Komporme kamo nga maayo ang akon plano.
Gani ginpadumala ko sa inyo bilang mga hukom kag hukom kag opisyal ang mga tawo nga maalamon kag talahuron halin sa inyo mga tribo. Ang iban responsable sa 1,000 ka tawo, ang iban sa 100, ang iban sa 50, kag ang iban sa 10.
Sadto nga tion ginmanduan ko ang inyo mga hukom, ‘Husaya ninyo ang mga kaso sang mga tawo, kag maghukom kamo sing matarong, indi lamang sa mga Israelinhon kundi pati man sa mga pangayaw.
Kinahanglan wala kamo sing may ginapasulabi sa inyo paghukom; pamatii ninyo sing palareho ang mga imol kag manggaranon. Indi kamo magkahadlok bisan kay sin-o, kay ang paghukom naghalin sa Dios. Kon mabudlay ang kaso para sa inyo, dal-a ina sa akon kay ako ang bahala sa paghukom sina.’
Kag ginsilingan ko man kamo sadto sang tanan nga dapat ninyo pagahimuon.
“Dayon, suno sa mando sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, naghalin kita sa Bukid sang Sinai,
(Mga onse ka adlaw nga pagpanglakaton nga pagpanglakaton halin sa Bukid sang Sinai
nagsiling ako sa inyo, ‘Nakaabot na kamo sa kabukiran sang mga Amornon nga ginahatag sa aton sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios.
Tan-awa ang duta nga ginahatag niya sa inyo! Panag-iyahi ninyo ini suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan. Indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magkaluya.’
“Dayon nagpalapit kamo tanan sa akon kag nagsiling, ‘Magpadala anay kita sang mga tawo sa pagpang-espiya sa duta para masugiran nila kita sang aton alagyan kag sang mga banwa nga aton kadtuan.’
“Nahunahunaan ko nga maayo man ato nga plano; gani nagpili ako sang dose ka tawo, isa sa kada tribo.
Naglakat sila kag nag-agi sa kabukiran, kag nakaabot sila sa Eshcol nga ililigan sang tubig, kag nagpang-espiya sila didto.
Sa ila pagbalik may dala sila sa aton nga mga prutas halin didto, kag nagbalita man sila nga maayo ang duta nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios sa aton.
“Pero indi kamo gusto magkadto didto; nagsupak kamo sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Nagkumod kamo sa inyo mga tolda kag nagsiling, ‘Ginakaugtan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ginpaguwa niya kita sa Egypt para itugyan sa mga kamot sang mga Amornon sa paglaglag sa aton.
Paano kita makakadto didto? Ginpahadlok kita sang mga nagpang-espiya sa duta. Nagsiling sila nga ang mga tawo didto mas makusog kag mas mataas sang sa aton, kag ang ila mga banwa dalagko kag napalibutan sang mga pader nga ang kataason daw daw lambot na sa langit. Kag nakita pa nila didto ang mga kaliwat ni Anak.’
“Dayon nagsiling ako sa inyo, ‘Indi kamo magpakulba ukon magkahadlok sa ila.
Sang nahauna nga adlaw sang ika-11 nga bulan, sang ika-40 nga tuig halin sang paghalin sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt halin sang paghalin sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt , ginhambal ni Moises sa ila ang tanan nga ginpasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihambal sa ila.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios magauna sa inyo kag magapakig-away mismo para sa inyo, pareho sang inyo nakita nga iya ginhimo sa Egypt
kag sa kamingawan. Nakita ninyo kon paano kamo gin-atipan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan ninyo nga dalanon, pareho sa amay nga nagaatipan sang iya anak, hasta nga nakaabot kamo sa sini nga lugar.’
“Pero bisan pa sining tanan, wala kamo nagsalig sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios
nga nagpanguna sa inyo sa paglakat, paagi sa kalayo kon gab-i kag sa panganod kon adlaw. Ginpangitaan niya kamo sang mga lugar nga inyo makampuhan kag gintudluan kon diin kamo maagi.
“Sang mabatian sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo mga reklamo, nangakig siya kag nagpanumpa,
‘Wala sing bisan isa sa sining malain nga henerasyon nga makakita sang maayo nga duta nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag sa ila mga katigulangan,
luwas lang kay Caleb nga anak ni Jefune. Makita niya ini, kag ihatag ko sa iya kag sa iya mga kaliwat ang ila parte sa ila parte sa duta nga iya ginkadtuan, kay nagsunod siya sa akon sa bug-os niya nga tagipusuon.’
“Tungod sa inyo, nangakig man ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon. Nagsiling siya sa akon, ‘Bisan ikaw indi makasulod sa amo nga duta.
Pero ang imo kabulig nga si Josue nga anak ni Nun makasulod didto. Paisuga siya, kay siya ang magapangulo sa mga Israelinhon sa pagpanag-iya sang duta.’
“ Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo sa aton tanan, Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton tanan, ‘Makasulod man sa amo nga duta ang inyo mga kabataan nga wala pa sang buot. Nahadlok kamo nga basi bihagon sila, pero sa ila ko ihatag ini nga duta kag panag-iyahan nila ini.
Natabo ini Natabo ini matapos nga napierdi ni Moises
Pero kamo ya, balik kamo sa kamingawan pakadto sa Mapula nga Dagat.’
“Dayon nagsiling kamo, ‘Nakasala kami sa Ginoo Ginoo . Malakat kami kag magpakig-away suno sa ginmando sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios sa amon.’ Gani ang kada isa sa inyo nagpreparar sang iya mga armas, nga nagahunahuna nga mahapos lang ang pag-agaw sa mga kabukiran.
“Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Silinga sila nga indi maglakat kag magpakig-away, tungod kay indi ako mag-upod sa ila. Mapierdi sila sang ila mga kaaway.’
“Gani ginsilingan ko kamo, pero wala kamo nagpamati. Nagsupak kamo sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag sa inyo kahambog nagsalakay gid gid kamo sa kabukiran.
Dayon nagpakig-away sa inyo ang mga Amornon nga nagaestar didto, kag daw sa mga putyukan sila nga naglagas kag nagpierdi sa inyo halin sa Seir hasta sa Horma.
Nagbalik kamo kag naghilibion sa Ginoo Ginoo , pero wala siya nagpamati ukon nagsapak sa inyo.
Amo ina nga nagtiner kamo sing madugay sa Kadesh.
Gani Gani ginsugid sa ila ni Moises ang kasuguan sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, sa teritoryo sang Moab. Siling niya,
“Sang didto kita sa Horeb, nagsiling sa aton ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, ‘Dugay na ang inyo pagtiner sa sini nga bukid,
gani maglakat na kamo. Magkadto kamo sa mga kabukiran sang mga Amornon kag sa mga lugar sa palibot sini—sa Kapatagan sang Jordan,
Tan-awa ninyo! Ginahatag ko ini nga mga mga duta sa inyo. Lakat kamo kag panag-iyahi ini nga mga mga duta nga ginpromisa ko sa inyo mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac kag Jacob, kag sa ila mga kaliwat.’ ”
Nagsiling pa si Moises, Nagsiling pa si Moises, “Sang sadto nga tion, nagsiling ako sa inyo: ‘Indi ko kamo masarangan nga panguluhan nga ako lang isa.
“Dayon nagbalik kita kag nagkadto sa kamingawan pakadto sa Mapula nga Dagat, suno sa ginmando sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon. Kag sa madugay nga tion naglibot-libot kita sa kabukiran sang Seir.
(Sang una didto nagaestar sa Ar ang madamo kag makusog nga mga tawo nga ginatawag Emhanon. Mga mataas man sila nga mga tawo pareho sang mga kaliwat ni Anak.
Ginatawag man sila nga mga Refaimnon, pareho sang mga kaliwat ni Anak, pero ginatawag sila sang mga Moabnon nga mga Emhanon.
Sang una didto nagaestar ang mga Horhanon sa Seir, pero ginlaglag sila kag gintabog sang mga kaliwat ni Esau, kag sila na ang nag-estar didto, pareho sang ginhimo sang mga Israelinhon sa mga Canaanhon sa mga Canaanhon sa duta nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.)
“Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga matabok kita sa Zered nga ililigan sang tubig, gani nagtabok kita.
Ini pagkaligad sang 38 ka tuig halin sang tion nga naghalin kita sa Kadesh Barnea. Nagkalamatay na sa kamingawan ang mga soldado nga Israelinhon sa sina nga henerasyon, suno sa ginsumpa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
Ginsilutan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo hasta nga gin-ubos niya sila pamatay sa kampo.
“Sang nagkalamatay na ang tanan nga soldado,
nagsiling sa akon ang Ginoo Ginoo ,
‘Matabok kamo subong sa border sang Moab sa Ar.
Kon makaabot na kamo sa mga Ammonhon, nga mga kaliwat ni Lot, indi ninyo sila paggamuha ukon pagsalakaya kay ginhatag ko sa ila ang ila duta, kag indi ko kamo paghatagan sang ila duta bisan gamay lang.’
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Ang amo nga duta ginkabig sang una nga duta sang mga Refaimnon kay gin-estaran nila ini. Ini sila gintawag sang mga Ammonhon nga Zamzumnon.
Ini sila madamo kag makusog, kag mataas pareho sang mga kaliwat ni Anak. Pero ginpalaglag sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Ammonhon. Gintabog sila sang mga Ammonhon kag gin-estaran ang ila duta.
Pareho man sina ang pagbulig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga kaliwat ni Esau nga nagaestar sa Seir. Kay ginpalaglag sa ila sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Horhanon. Gintabog nila ang mga Horhanon kag gin-estaran ang ila duta hasta subong.
Amo man sini ang natabo sang ginsalakay sang mga taga-Caftor
“ Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo , Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Karon magtabok na kamo sa Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig. Ginatugyan ko sa inyo si Sihon nga Amornon nga hari sang Heshbon, kag ang iya duta. Salakaya ninyo siya kag panag-iyahi ang iya duta.
Sugod subong pahadlukon ko sa inyo ang tanan nga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan. Magakulurog sa kahadlok ang makabati parte sa inyo.’
“Gani sang didto kita sa kamingawan sang Kedemot, nagpadala ako sang mga mensahero kay Haring Sihon sang Heshbon sa paghambal sa iya sining akon mensahi nga sining akon mensahi nga para sa kaayuhan sang amon relasyon:
‘Kon mahimo tuguti kami sa pag-agi sa inyo duta. Indi kami mag-agi sa iban nga mga dalan kundi sa inyo lang mayor nga dalan.
Bayaran namon sang kuwarta ang amon makaon kag mainom. Ang amon lang pangabay amo nga tugutan mo kami sa pag-agi sa inyo duta
pareho sang pagtugot sa amon sang mga kaliwat ni Esau nga nagaestar sa Seir kag sang mga Moabnon nga nagaestar sa Ar. Tuguti kami sa pag-agi hasta nga makatabok kami sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan pakadto sa duta nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios sa amon.’
‘Dugay na kamo nga nagalibot-libot sa sini nga kabukiran. Karon, magderetso na kamo sa north.
Pero wala nagsugot si Haring Sihon sang Heshbon sa pagpaagi sa aton. Kay ginpatig-a sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang iya tagipusuon para itugyan siya sa aton mga kamot, pareho sang natabo subong.
“Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Ginaumpisahan ko na sa pagtugyan sa inyo si Sihon kag ang iya duta; gani umpisahi na ninyo ang pagsalakay kag pagsakop sang iya duta.’
“Sang nagpakig-away sa aton si Sihon kag ang tanan niya nga soldado
gintugyan siya sa aton sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios kag ginpatay ta siya, pati ang iya mga anak kag ang tanan niya nga soldado.
Sadto nga tion, gin-agaw ta ang tanan niya nga banwa kag ginlaglag sila sing bug-os
Ginpangdala ta ang ila mga kasapatan kag mga pagkabutang nga aton naagaw sa ila mga banwa.
“Ginbuligan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios sa pag-agaw sang Aroer sa higad sang Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig kag sang banwa nga malapit sa sini nga ililigan kag sang mga lugar hasta sa Gilead. Wala sing banwa nga mabakod para sa aton.
Pero suno sa ginsugo sa aton sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, wala ta pagpalapiti ang bisan diin nga duta sang mga Ammonhon, bisan ang duta nga ara sa higad sang Jabok ukon ang mga banwa sa palibot sang mga kabukiran.
Silinga ang mga tawo, “Magaagi kamo sa teritoryo sang inyo mga kadugo nga mga kaliwat ni Esau, nga nagaestar sa Seir. Mahadlok sila sa inyo, gani maghalong kamo
nga indi ninyo sila pagsalakayon. Kay ginahatag ko sa ila ang mga kabukiran sang Seir bilang ila duta, kag indi ko kamo paghatagan sang ila duta bisan gamay lang.
Bayaran ninyo sila sang kuwarta sa inyo makaon kag mainom.
Dumdumon ninyo kon paano ko ko kamo ginpakamaayo sa tanan ninyo nga ginhimo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, ang nagbantay sa inyo sa pagpanglakaton ninyo sa sining malapad nga kamingawan. Sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig nag-upod ako ako sa inyo, kag wala gid kamo nakulangi sang bisan ano.” ’
“Gani nag-agi lang kita sa aton mga kadugo nga mga kaliwat ni Esau, nga nagaestar sa Seir. Wala kita nag-agi sa dalan sang Kapatagan sang Jordan,
nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Indi ninyo paggamuha ukon pagsalakaya ang mga Moabnon nga mga kaliwat ni Lot, kay ginhatag ko sa ila ang Ar bilang ila duta, kag indi ko kamo paghatagan sang ila duta bisan gamay lang.’ ”
“Dayon nagkadto kita sa Bashan, pero ginsalakay kita ni Haring Og sang Bashan kag sang iya bilog nga katawhan didto sa Edrei.
Gin-agaw ta ang tanan nga banwa sa mataas nga patag, ang bilog nga Gilead, kag ang bilog nga Bashan hasta sa Saleca kag Edrei, nga mga banwa nga sakop sang ginharian ni Og sang Bashan.
(Si Haring Og amo lang ang nabilin nga kaliwat sang mga Refaimnon. Ang iya salsalon nga katre
“Sang naagaw ta ini nga duta, ginhatag ko sa mga kaliwat ni Reuben kag ni Gad ang duta sa north sang Aroer malapit sa Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig pati ang katunga sang kabukiran sang Gilead kag ang mga banwa sini.
Ang nabilin nga parte sang Gilead kag ang bilog nga Bashan, ang ginharian ni Og, ginhatag ko sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase. (Ang bilog nga Argob sa Bashan ginatawag sadto nga duta sang mga Refaimnon.)
Si Jair nga kaliwat ni Manase, amo ang nagpanag-iya sang bilog nga Argob nga sakop sang Bashan hasta sa border sang duta sang mga Geshurnon kag sang mga Maacatnon. Ini nga teritoryo gin-ngalanan ni Jair sang iya mismo ngalan, gani hasta subong ang Bashan ginatawag nga ‘Mga Banwa ni Jair.’
Ginhatag ko ang Gilead sa pamilya ni pamilya ni Makir.
Kag sa mga kaliwat ni Reuben kag ni Gad ginhatag ko sa ila ang kadutaan halin sa Gilead hasta sa Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig. Ang tunga-tunga sang Arnon amo ang ila border sa south sa south , kag ang ila naman border sa north amo ang ila naman border sa north amo ang Jabok nga ililigan sang tubig, nga amo man ang border sang mga Ammonhon.
Ang border sa west amo ang Kapatagan sang Jordan,
“Sadto nga tion ginmanduan ko ang inyo mga tribo nga nagaestar sa east sang Jordan,
Pero ibilin ninyo ang inyo mga asawa, mga kabataan, kag ang inyo madamo nga kasapatan sa mga banwa nga ginhatag ko sa inyo.
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Indi ka magkahadlok sa iya, kay sigurado nga itugyan ko siya sa imo, pati ang iya bilog nga katawhan kag ang iya duta. Himua sa iya ang ginhimo mo kay Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon nga naghari sa Heshbon.’
Kon maangkon na sang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon ang duta sa tabok sang Jordan nga ginahatag sa ila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag kon mahatagan na sila sang seguridad pareho sa iya ginhimo sa inyo, makabalik na kamo sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa inyo.’
“Kag sadto nga tion, ginsilingan ko man si Josue, ‘Nakita mo mismo ang tanan nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa sadtong duha ka hari. Pareho man sina ang himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga ginharian nga inyo kadtuan.
Indi kamo magkahadlok sa ila, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios mismo ang magpakig-away para sa inyo.’
“Sadto nga tion, nagpakitluoy ako sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siling ko, Siling ko,
‘O Ginoong Dios Dios , ginsuguran mo na nga ipakita sa imo alagad ang imo pagkagamhanan, kay wala sing dios sa langit ukon sa duta nga makahimo sang mga milagro nga imo ginhimo.
Gani kon mahimo, tuguti ako nga makatabok para makita ko ang maayo nga duta sa tabok sang Jordan, ang matahom nga mga kabukiran, pati ang mga kabukiran sang mga kabukiran sang Lebanon.’
“Pero nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon tungod sa inyo, kag wala siya nagsugot sa akon pangabay. Nagsiling siya, ‘Husto na ina! Indi na ako paghambali liwat parte sina nga butang.
Magsaka ka sa putokputokan sang Pisga kag magtan-aw sa duta sa bisan diin nga direksyon, kay indi ka makatabok sa Jordan.
Pero tudlui si Josue sang iya himuon. Pabakura siya kay siya ang magapangulo sa sini nga mga tawo sa pagtabok sa Jordan sa Jordan . Ihatag niya sa ila ang duta nga makita mo lang!’
Gani nagpabilin kita sa pulopatag nga malapit sa Bet Peor.”
Gani gintugyan sa aton sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios si Haring Og sang Bashan kag ang bilog niya nga katawhan. Ginpamatay ta sila, kag wala gid kita sing may ginbilin nga buhi.
Gin-agaw ta ang tanan niya nga 60 ka banwa—ang bilog nga teritoryo sang Argob nga sakop iya sang ginharian.
Ini tanan nga banwa napalibutan sang mataas nga mga pader kag may mga puwertahan nga may mga trangka. Gin-agaw ta man ang iya madamo gid nga mga baryo nga wala sing mga pader.
“Ginlaglag ta sila sing bug-os
Pero gindala ta ang tanan nga kasapatan kag pagkabutang nga aton nakuha sa ila mga banwa.
“Gani naagaw ta sa duha ka hari sang mga Amornon ang duta sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan halin sa Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig hasta sa Bukid sang Hermon.
(Ining Hermon ginatawag sang mga Sidonhon nga Sirion, kag ginatawag sang mga Amornon nga Senir.)
Dayon nagsiling si Moises, Dayon nagsiling si Moises, “Mga Israelinhon, pamatii ninyo ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginatudlo ko sa inyo. Tumana ninyo ini para magkabuhi kamo kag makaestar sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan.
Dumduma ninyo ang adlaw nga nagtindog kamo sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa Bukid sang Bukid sang Sinai
Dayon nagpalapit kamo kag nagtindog sa ubos sang bukid samtang nagadabadaba ang bukid nga ang kalayo sini daw sa sini daw sa nagalambot sa langit, kag nalikupan ini sing puwerte kadamol nga gal-om.
Dayon naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa tunga sang kalayo. Nabatian ninyo ang iya tingog, pero wala kamo sing may nakita.
Ginsugid niya sa inyo ang mga butang nga inyo himuon sa pagtuman sang iya kasugtanan sa inyo. Ini amo ang Napulo ka Sugo, nga iya ginmando nga tumanon ninyo. Kag ginpasulat niya ini sa duha ka malapad nga bato.
Sadto nga tion, ginsugo ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagtudlo sa inyo sang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga inyo tumanon didto sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan.
“Sang nagpakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo sa Bukid sang Bukid sang Sinai halin sa tunga sang kalayo, wala kamo sing may nakita nga porma sang Ginoo Ginoo . Gani mag-andam gid kamo sa inyo kaugalingon
nga indi ninyo paghigkuan ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa paghimo sang mga dios-dios sa bisan ano nga porma ukon dagway—lalaki man ukon babayi,
sapat man nga nagalakat ukon nagalupad,
ukon nagakamang ukon nagalangoy.
Indi kamo magpadala-dala sa pagsimba sa mga butang sa kalangitan—sa adlaw, bulan, kag mga bituon. Ginbutang ini sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios para sa tanan nga katawhan sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Indi ninyo pagdugangan ukon pagbuhinan ang mga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo halin sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Dapat tumanon gid ninyo ini.
Dumduma nga ginkuha kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Egypt, ang lugar nga pareho sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan nga tunawan sang salsalon, para mangin iya katawhan, kag amo ina kamo subong.
“Naakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon tungod sa inyo, kag nagsumpa gid siya nga indi ako makatabok sa Jordan kag makasulod sa maayo nga duta nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios bilang palanublion ninyo.
Mapatay ako sa sini nga duta nga indi makatabok sa Jordan, pero kamo inyo magatabok sa pagpanag-iya sang maayo nga duta.
Pero mag-andam gid kamo nga indi ninyo malimtan ang kasugtanan nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo. Indi kamo maghimo sang mga dios-dios sa dagway sang bisan ano nga butang, kay ginabawal ini sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Indi gid siya gusto nga may ginasimba kamo nga iban nga dios. Kay kon magsilot kon magsilot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, daw sa kalayo nga nagapang-upos.
“Sa ulihi, kon makapamata na kamo kag makapangapo, kag makaestar na sa amo nga duta sang malawig nga tion, indi ninyo paghigkui ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa paghimo sang mga dios-dios sa bisan ano nga porma. Malain ini sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag makapaakig sa iya.
“Subong nga adlaw ginakabig ko ang langit kag ang duta nga saksi kontra sa inyo. Kon maghimo kamo sang mga dios-dios, Kon maghimo kamo sang mga dios-dios, dali lang kamo magkalawala sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan sa tabok sang Jordan. Magaestar kamo didto sa malip-ot lang nga tion, dayon malaglag kamo sing bug-os.
Palaptahon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iban nga mga nasyon, kag gamay lang ang mabilin sa inyo didto sa mga nasyon nga sa diin kamo tabugon sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag didto magasimba kamo sa mga dios nga ginhimo sang tawo halin sa kahoy kag bato, nga indi makakita, makabati, makakaon, ukon makapanimaho.
Pero kon magpangita kamo didto sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, makita ninyo siya kon pangitaon ninyo siya sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon.
Nakita ninyo mismo ang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Baal Peor. Ginpamatay sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon nga nagsimba kay Baal.
Kon mag-abot ini nga kalisod sa inyo sa ulihi, magabalik kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag magatuman sa iya.
Kay maluluy-on ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Indi niya kamo pagpabay-an ukon paglaglagon. Indi niya pagkalimtan ang kasugtanan nga iya ginsumpaan sa inyo mga katigulangan.
“Usisaa ang mga hitabo halin sang adlaw nga gintuga sang Dios ang tawo sa kalibutan hasta subong. Dayon usisaa ang bilog nga kalibutan kon bala may makatilingala nga butang nga natabo pareho sini.
May ara bala sang iban nga mga tawo nga nabuhi pa pagkatapos nga nakabati sila sang tingog sang Dios halin sa kalayo, pareho sang inyo nabatian?
May ara bala sang iban nga dios nga nangahas sa pagkuha sang isa ka grupo sang katawhan halin sa isa ka nasyon para mangin iya paagi sa mga pagtilaw, milagro, makatilingala nga mga butang, inaway, puwerte nga gahom, kag grabe nga mga binuhatan? Pero amo ina ang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios didto sa Egypt, kag nakita ninyo mismo.
Ginpakita ato nga mga butang sa inyo para mahibaluan ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Dios, kag wala na sing iban pa.
Ginpabati niya kamo sang iya tingog halin sa langit sa pagtudlo sa inyo. Ginpakita niya sa inyo diri sa duta ang iya gamhanan nga kalayo kag naghambal siya sa inyo halin sa sini nga kalayo.
Kag tungod kay ginhigugma niya ang inyo mga katigulangan, ginpili niya kamo kag ginpaguwa sa Egypt paagi sa iya presensya kag puwerte nga gahom.
Ginpatabog niya sa inyo ang mga nasyon nga mas gamhanan pa sang sa inyo sa pagdala sa inyo sa ila duta para ihatag ini sa inyo bilang palanublion ninyo, pareho subong.
“Gani dumduma ninyo subong kag itanom sa inyo tagipusuon nga ang Ginoo Ginoo Dios sa langit kag sa duta, kag wala na sing iban pa nga dios.
Pero kamo ya nga matutom sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios buhi pa hasta subong.
Tumana ninyo ang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, para wala sing may malain nga matabo sa inyo kag sa inyo mga kaliwat, kag para magkabuhi kamo sing malawig sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios para panag-iyahan ninyo hasta san-o.”
Dayon nagpili si Moises sing tatlo ka banwa sa east sang Jordan
para makapalagyo didto ang tawo nga nakapatay sang iya isigkatawo nga indi hungod kag wala niya ginplano. Makapalagyo siya sa isa sa sini nga mga banwa para indi siya maano.
Amo ini ang mga banwa: Bezer sa mataas nga patag sang kamingawan para sa tribo ni Reuben; Ramot sa Gilead para sa tribo ni Gad; kag Golan sa Bashan para sa tribo ni Manase.
Ginhatag ni Moises sa mga Israelinhon ini nga mga sugo,
pagpanudlo, kag pagsulundan sang nagguwa sila sa Egypt
kag samtang nagakampo sila sa pulopatag nga malapit sa Bet Peor sa east sang Jordan. Ini nga duta sakop sadto ni Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon, nga nagaestar sa Heshbon. Siya kag ang iya mga tinawo ginpierdi ni Moises kag sang mga Israelinhon sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt.
Gin-agaw nila ni Moises ang iya duta kag ang duta ni Haring Og sang Bashan. Sila ang duha ka Amornon nga mga hari sa east sang Jordan.
Ang ila mga duta nga naagaw sang mga Israelinhon nagaumpisa sa Aroer, sa ibabaw sang Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig pakadto sa Bukid sang Sirion
kag pati ang bilog nga Kapatagan sang Jordan
“Ginatudlo ko sa inyo ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag sa akon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios para sundon ninyo ini pag-abot ninyo sa duta nga inyo kadtuan kag panag-iyahan.
Sundon ninyo ini sing maayo, kay paagi sini mapakita ninyo ang inyo kaalam kag pag-intiendi sa iban nga mga nasyon. Kon mabatian nila ining tanan nga pagsulundan magasiling sila, ‘Matuod gid nga may kaalam kag pag-intiendi ang mga tawo sang sining gamhanan nga nasyon.’
Wala na sing iban nga gamhanan nga nasyon nga may dios nga malapit sa ila pareho sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios nga malapit sa aton sa tagsa ka tion nga magpanawag kita sa iya.
Kag wala man sing iban nga gamhanan nga nasyon nga may mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga pareho sang akon ginatudlo sa inyo subong.
Pero mag-andam gid kamo! Indi ninyo pagkalimti ang mga butang nga inyo nakita nga ginpanghimo sang Ginoo nga ginpanghimo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kinahanglan nga magpabilin ini sa inyo mga tagipusuon samtang buhi kamo. Isugid ninyo ini sa inyo kabataan kag kaapuhan.
Ginpatipon ni Moises ang tanan nga Israelinhon kag ginsilingan, “Mga Israelinhon, pamatii ninyo ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong. Tun-i ninyo ini kag sundon gid.
“ ‘Indi ninyo paggamita ang ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa wala sing pulos kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , magasilot sa kay bisan sin-o nga maggamit sang akon ngalan sa wala sing pulos.
“ ‘Tumana ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag himua ninyo ini nga pinasahi nga adlaw para sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, suno sa ginmando ko sa inyo.
pero ang ikapito nga adlaw amo ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga inyo painon para sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Indi kamo mag-obra sa sina nga adlaw pati ang inyo mga anak, mga ulipon, mga baka, mga donkey, kag iban pa ninyo nga kasapatan, kag ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa. Sa sini nga paagi makapahuway man ang inyo mga ulipon pareho sa inyo.
Dumduma ninyo nga mga ulipon man kamo sadto sa Egypt, kag ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, nagpaguwa sa inyo didto paagi sa akon puwerte nga gahom. Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, nagmando sa inyo nga tumanon ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
“ ‘Tahura ang inyo amay kag iloy, suno sa ginmando ko sa inyo, para magkabuhi kamo sing malawig kag mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan sa duta nga ginahatag ko sa inyo.
“ ‘Indi kamo magpatay.
“ ‘Indi kamo magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki.
“ ‘Indi kamo magpangawat.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios naghimo sang kasugtanan sa aton sa Bukid sang Sinai.
“ ‘Indi kamo magsaksi sing butig kontra sa inyo isigkatawo.
“ ‘Indi kamo magkahisa sa asawa sang inyo isigkatawo, ukon sa iya balay, duta, mga ulipon, mga baka ukon donkey, ukon sa bisan ano nga ara sa iya.’
“Amo ina ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo tanan nga nagtipon didto sa bukid. Sang naghambal siya sa makusog nga tingog halin sa tunga sang kalayo nga napalibutan sang madamol nga panganod, ginhatag niya ini nga mga sugo kag wala na siya sang iban pa nga ginhambal. Ginsulat niya ini sa duha ka malapad nga bato kag ginhatag sa akon.
“Sang nabatian ninyo ang tingog halin sa kadudulman samtang nagadabadaba ang bukid, nagpalapit sa akon ang tanan nga pangulo sang inyo mga tribo kag ang inyo mga manugdumala,
kag nagsiling sila, ‘Ginpakita sa aton sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios ang iya gamhanan nga presensya kag kadungganan, kag nabatian ta ang iya tingog halin sa kalayo. Nakita ta subong nga adlaw nga puwede mabuhi ang tawo bisan naghambal ang Dios sa iya.
Pero indi namon pag-ibutang sa peligro ang amon kabuhi. Kay kon mabatian namon liwat ang tingog sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, sigurado nga lamunon gid kami sang gamhanan nga kalayo.
May ara bala sang tawo nga nabuhi pa pagkatapos nga nabatian niya ang tingog sang buhi nga Dios halin sa kalayo pareho sa aton nabatian?
Ikaw na lang ang magpalapit sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, kag pamatii ang tanan nga isiling niya. Dayon isugid mo na lang sa amon ang tanan nga ginsiling niya, kay pamatian namon ini kag tumanon.’
“Nabatian sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo ginsiling sang nagpakighambal kamo sa akon, kag nagsiling siya sa akon, ‘Nabatian ko kon ano ang ginsiling sang sini nga mga tawo sa imo, kag maayo ang tanan nila nga ginsiling.
Kabay pa nga magtahod sila permi sa akon kag magtuman sa akon mga sugo para mangin maayo ang kahimtangan nila kag sang ila mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
Wala niya ini ginhimo sa aton mga katigulangan kundi sa aton tanan nga buhi subong.
Lakat kag hambala sila nga magbalik sila sa ila mga tolda.
Pero magpabilin ka diri sa akon para ihatag ko sa imo ang tanan nga sugo kag pagsulundan nga itudlo mo sa ila nga ila sundon didto sa duta nga ginahatag ko sa ila nga ila panag-iyahan.’
“Gani tumana gid ninyo sing maayo ang ginmando sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo. Indi ninyo paglapasa ang bisan isa sa iya mga sugo.
Magkabuhi kamo suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo para magkabuhi kamo sing malawig kag magmauswagon didto sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan.
Didto sa bukid naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo halin sa kalayo nga daw sa nagaatubangay lang kamo.
Nagatindog ako sa tunga ninyo kag sang Ginoo Ginoo sadto nga tion sa paghambal sa inyo sang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay nahadlok kamo sa kalayo kag indi kamo magsaka sa bukid. Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo :
“ ‘Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt nga sa diin kamo gin-ulipon.
“ ‘Indi kamo magsimba sa iban nga dios magluwas sa akon.
“ ‘Indi kamo maghimo sang mga dios-dios sa dagway sang bisan ano nga ara sa langit ukon sa duta ukon sa tubig.
“Amo ini ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag sa akon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios para itudlo sa inyo. Tumana ninyo ini didto sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan sa tabok sang Jordan sang Jordan ,
“Dal-on na kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios didto sa duta nga iya ginpromisa nga ihatag sa inyo mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac kag Jacob. Ini nga duta may dalagko kag mainuswagon nga mga banwa nga indi kamo ang nagpatindog.
May mga balay man ini nga puno sang maayo nga mga butang nga indi kamo ang nagpangabudlay, may mga bubon nga indi kamo ang nagkutkot, kag may mga talamnan sang ubas kag sang mga kahoy nga olibo nga indi kamo ang nagtanom. Kag kon makakaon na gani kamo kag magkalabusog,
mag-andam gid kamo nga indi ninyo malimtan ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt nga sa diin gin-ulipon kamo.
“Tahura ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios; siya gid lang ang inyo alagaron kag magpromisa kamo sa iya lang ngalan.
Indi kamo magsunod sa iban nga mga dios, ang mga dios sang mga katawhan sa inyo palibot;
kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga kaupod ninyo indi gid gusto nga may ginasimba kamo nga iban. Kon magsimba kamo sa iban nga mga dios Kon magsimba kamo sa iban nga mga dios ipaagom sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kaakig sa inyo kag laglagon niya kamo sa duta.
Indi pagtestingi ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios pareho sa inyo ginhimo sa Masa.
Tumana gid ninyo ang mga sugo, mga pagpanudlo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo.
Himua ninyo ang husto kag maayo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo para mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan kag mapanag-iyahan ninyo ang maayo nga duta nga iya ginsumpa sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Ipatabog niya sa inyo ang tanan ninyo nga kaaway suno sa iya ginsiling.
para kamo kag ang inyo kabataan kag kaapuhan magtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios samtang nagakabuhi kamo. Kon tumanon ninyo ang tanan niya nga mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag ko sa inyo, magakabuhi kamo sing malawig.
“Sa palaabuton kon magpamangkot gani ang inyo kabataan, ‘Ano bala ang buot silingon sang mga pagpanudlo, mga pagsulundan, kag mga kasuguan nga ginmando sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios?’
Silinga sila, ‘Mga ulipon kami sadto sang hari
Nakita namon mismo ang puwerte nga mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga iya ginhimo sa pagsilot sa katawhan sang katawhan sang Egypt, pati na sa ila hari kag sa iya bilog nga panimalay.
Kag ginpaguwa niya kami sa Egypt para dal-on sa sini nga duta nga iya ginsumpa nga ihatag sa aton mga katigulangan.
Ginmanduan kami sang Ginoo Ginoo nga tumanon namon ining tanan nga pagsulundan kag magtahod sa iya nga aton Dios, para magmauswagon kami permi kag magkabuhi sing malawig pareho sang nagakalatabo subong.
Kag kon tumanon ta lang sing maayo ining tanan nga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, suno sa iya ginmando sa aton, mangin matarong kita sa iya panulok.’
Pamati, katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel, kag tumana ninyo sing maayo ang iya mga sugo para mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan kag para magdamo gid kamo didto sa duta nga maayo kag mapatubason,
“Pamati, katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel! Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios amo lang ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Higugmaa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon, sa bug-os ninyo nga kalag kag sa bug-os ninyo nga kusog.
Indi gid ninyo pagkalimti ining mga sugo nga ginhatag ko sa inyo subong.
Itudlo ini permi sa inyo mga kabataan. Hambali ninyo ini kon ara kamo sa inyo balay kag kon nagalakat kamo, kon nagahigda kamo kag kon magbangon kamo.
Ihigot ini sa inyo mga butkon kag ibutang sa inyo mga agtang bilang padumdom sa inyo.
Isulat ninyo ini sa mga hamba sang puwertahan sang puwertahan sang inyo mga balay kag sa mga puwertahan sang inyo mga banwa sang inyo mga banwa .
“Kon dal-on na gani kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios didto sa duta nga inyo pagasudlon kag panag-iyahan, ipatabog niya sa inyo ang pito ka nasyon nga mas madamo kag mas gamhanan pa sang sa inyo: ang mga Hithanon, mga Girgashnon, mga Amornon, mga Canaanhon, mga Periznon, mga Hivhanon, kag mga Jebusnon.
Pero ang mga wala nagahigugma sa iya silutan gid niya dayon kag laglagon.
“Gani tumanon gid ninyo sing maayo ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Kon tumanon ninyo ini nga mga sugo kag sundon sing maayo, tumanon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang iya kasugtanan nga higugmaon
Higugmaon niya kamo, pakamaayuhon, kag padamuon. Hatagan niya kamo sang madamo nga kabataan kag pakamaayuhon ang mga produkto sang inyo duta: ang inyo mga uyas, duga sang ubas, kag lana. Kag padamuon man niya ang inyo kasapatan didto sa duta nga iya ginsumpa nga ihatag sa mga katigulangan ninyo kag sa inyo.
Pakamaayuhon niya kamo labaw sa iban nga mga katawhan. Wala sing lalaki sa inyo nga mabaog ukon babayi nga mabaw-as, kag amo man sa inyo mga kasapatan.
Protektaran kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga balatian. Indi niya pag-ipadala sa inyo atong makangilil-ad nga mga balatian nga inyo nakita didto sa Egypt, pero ipadala niya ini sa tanan nga nagadumot sa inyo.
Kinahanglan nga pamatyon ninyo ang tanan nga katawhan nga ginatugyan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo. Indi ninyo sila pagkaluoyi, kag indi kamo mag-alagad sa ila mga dios, kay mangin siod ini para sa inyo.
“Basi bala magsiling kamo sa inyo kaugalingon, ‘Mas gamhanan pa ini nga mga nasyon sang sa aton. Paano bala naton sila mapalayas?’
Pero indi kamo magkahadlok sa ila, kundi dumdumon ninyo sing maayo kon ano ang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa hari sang Egypt
Nakita ninyo mismo ang dalagko nga mga pagtilaw, ang mga milagro, mga makatilingala nga butang, kag puwerte nga gahom nga gin-gamit sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa pagpaguwa sa inyo. Pareho man sini ang pagahimuon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan nga katawhan nga inyo ginakahadlukan.
Kag kon itugyan na sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo kag pierdihon ninyo sila, laglagon ninyo sila sing bug-os.
Kag dayon padal-an sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang mga alingayo hasta nga malaglag bisan atong nagkalabilin nga nakapanago.
Indi kamo magkahadlok sa ila kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kaupod ninyo, kag gamhanan kag makatilingala siya nga Dios.
Amat-amat nga ipatabog sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ina nga mga nasyon. Indi ninyo sila pag-ubuson pahalin dayon, kay kon himuon ninyo ini magadamo ang talunon nga mga sapat.
Pero itugyan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo. Pasalasalahon niya sila hasta nga malaglag sila.
Itugyan niya sa inyo ang ila mga hari. Pamatyon ninyo sila, kag malimtan na sila. Wala sing bisan isa sa ila nga makadaog sa inyo, kag pamatyon ninyo sila tanan.
Sunugon ninyo ang ila mga dios-dios, kag indi ninyo paghandumon ang mga bulawan kag mga pilak sini. Indi gid ninyo ini pagkuhaon kay mangin siod ini sa inyo. Likawan gid ninyo ini Likawan gid ninyo ini kay ginakangil-aran ini sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Indi kamo magdala sa inyo balay sang sining makangilil-ad nga mga butang, para indi man kamo paglaglagon kaupod sini. Dapat kangil-aran gid ninyo ini, kay ini nga mga butang kinahanglan nga laglagon sing bug-os.
Indi kamo magpangasawa ukon magpamana sa ila, kag indi ninyo pagtuguti ang inyo mga anak nga magpangasawa ukon magpamana sa ila mga anak,
kay ipalayo nila sa Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo mga anak sa pag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios. Kag kon matabo ini, Kag kon matabo ini, ipaagom sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kaakig sa inyo kag sa gilayon malaglag kamo.
Sa baylo, amo ini ang inyo himuon: Panggub-a ninyo ang ila mga halaran, pangdugmuka ang ila handumanan nga mga bato, pang-utda ang ila mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, kag sunuga ang ila mga dios-dios.
Kay kamo nga katawhan ginseparar para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Sa tanan nga katawhan, kamo ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga mangin iya espesyal nga katawhan.
“Ginpili kamo kag ginhigugma sang Ginoo Ginoo indi tungod nga mas madamo kamo sang sa iban nga mga katawhan, kay kamo pa gani ang pinakadiutay sa tanan.
Ginpili niya kamo tungod kay ginahigugma niya kamo kag ginatuman niya ang iya ginsumpa sa inyo mga katigulangan. Amo gani nga ginpaguwa niya kamo sa Egypt paagi sa iya puwerte nga gahom, kag ginhilway sa pagkaulipon sa Faraon nga hari sang Egypt.
Hunahunaon ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo lang lang ang Dios. Masaligan siya nga Dios, kag ginatuman niya ang iya kasugtanan nga amo ang paghigugma sa madamo nga kaliwat nga nagahigugma sa iya kag nagatuman sang iya mga sugo.
“Sundon gid ninyo sing maayo ang tanan nga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, para padayon kamo nga mabuhi kag magdamo, kag makapanag-iya sa duta nga ginsumpa sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihatag sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Kon makapagusto na gani kamo kaon, dayawa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios tungod sa maayo nga duta nga iya ginhatag sa inyo.
“Mag-andam gid kamo nga indi ninyo malimtan ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag indi ninyo masupak ang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Kon makapagusto na gani kamo kaon kag makapatindog na sang maayo nga mga balay nga maestaran
kag magdamo na ang inyo mga kasapatan, pilak, bulawan kag mga pagkabutang,
mag-andam kamo nga indi kamo magpabugal kag magkalipat sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt nga sa diin gin-ulipon kamo.
Gintuytuyan niya kamo sa malapad kag makahaladlok nga kamingawan nga may dalitan nga mga man-og kag mga iwi-iwi. Kag ini nga lugar wala sing tubig, pero ginhatagan niya kamo sang tubig halin sa matig-a gid nga bato
Didto sa kamingawan, ginahatagan niya kamo sang manna—isa ka pagkaon nga wala makilala sang inyo mga katigulangan. Ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpaubos sa inyo kag sa pagtilaw sa inyo para sa ulihi mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan.
Basi bala masiling kamo sa inyo kaugalingon, ‘Paagi sa akon gahom kag kusog naangkon ko ini tanan nga manggad.’
Pero dumdumon gid ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo ang naghatag sa inyo sang abilidad nga magmanggaranon kamo, kag ginhimo niya ini para matuman niya ang iya kasugtanan nga iya ginsumpa sa inyo mga katigulangan. Ginatuman niya gani ini subong.
“Pero ginapaandaman ko na kamo subong nga kon kalimtan ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag magsunod kamo sa iban nga mga dios kag magsimba kag mag-alagad sa ila, sigurado gid nga malaglag kamo.
Dumduma ninyo kon paano kamo gintuytuyan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo pagpanglakaton sa kamingawan sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig. Ginhimo niya ini sa pagpaubos sa inyo kag sa pagtilaw sa inyo para mahibaluan kon ano gid ang sa sulod sang inyo tagipusuon, kon bala tumanon ninyo ang iya mga sugo ukon indi.
Subong nga ginpanglaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga nasyon sa inyo atubangan, panglaglagon man niya kamo kon indi kamo magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Ginpapaubos niya kamo paagi sa pagpagutom sa inyo kag dayon ginhatagan niya kamo sang manna—isa ka klase sang pagkaon nga wala pa gid ninyo matilawi halin sang una bisan sang inyo mga katigulangan. Ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagtudlo sa inyo nga indi lang sa pagkaon mabuhi ang tawo, kundi sa tagsa ka pulong sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig wala magdaan ang inyo mga bayo kag wala malap-uki ang inyo mga tiil sa pagpanglakaton sa pagpanglakaton .
Dapat mareyalisar ninyo nga subong nga ang amay nagadisiplina sa iya anak, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nagadisiplina man sa inyo.
“Gani tumana ninyo ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Magkabuhi kamo suno sa iya mga pamaagi kag tahura ninyo siya.
Kay dal-on kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa maayo nga duta, nga may mga ililigan sang tubig kag mga tuburan nga nagailig sa mga patag kag mga bukid.
Ina nga duta may mga trigo, barley, ubas, higos, pomegranata, olibo kag honey.
Indi kamo mawad-an sang pagkaon sa sina nga duta kag indi kamo pagkulangon sang bisan ano. Bugana sang mga salsalon ang mga bato kag sang mga saway ang mga bukid.
“Pamati kamo, katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel. Manugtabok na kamo sa Jordan para panag-iyahan ang mga nasyon nga mas dalagko kag mas gamhanan pa sang sa inyo. Ang ila sini mga banwa dalagko kag may mataas nga mga pader nga daw daw nagalambot na sa langit.
Ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon ang duha ka malapad nga bato nga siya mismo ang nagsulat sang tanan nga pulong nga ginhambal niya sa inyo halin sa kalayo didto sa Bukid sang Sinai sang Sinai samtang nagatipon kamo.
“Ining duha ka malapad nga bato nga sa diin nasulat ang kasugtanan ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon pagkatapos sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Panaog ka gilayon kay ang imo katawhan nga imo ginpangunahan sa pagguwa sa Egypt nangin malain na. Kadali lang sa ila magtalikod sa akon mga ginsugo sa ila kag naghimo sila sang dios-dios para simbahon nila.’
“Kag nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Nakita ko kon daw ano katig-a ang mga ulo sang sini nga katawhan.
Pabay-i lang ako nga laglagon ko sila para malimtan na sila. Dayon himuon ko ikaw kag ang imo mga kaliwat kag ang imo mga kaliwat nga isa ka nasyon nga mas gamhanan kag mas madamo pa sang sa ila.’
“Gani nagdulhog ako halin sa nagadabadaba nga bukid nga dala ang duha ka malapad nga bato nga sa diin nasulat ang kasugtanan.
Kag nakita ko kamo nga nagpakasala sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Naghimo kamo sang dios-dios nga bataon nga baka. Kadali lang sa inyo magtalikod sa mga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo.
Gani sa inyo atubangan ginlampos ko ang duha ka malapad nga bato kag nagkaladugmok ini.
“Dayon naghapa ako sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i nga wala sing kaon-kaon kag inom-inom, tungod sa tanan nga sala nga inyo ginhimo. Malain gid sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo ginhimo kag nakapaakig gid sa iya.
Nahadlok ako sa puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa inyo, kay basi bala pamatyon niya kamo. Pero ginpamatian gihapon ako sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang ila mga pumuluyo makusog kag mataas—mga kaliwat ni Anak! Nahibaluan man ninyo ang parte sa mga kaliwat ni Anak kag nabatian ninyo nga wala sing may makabato sa ila.
Kag puwerte man sadto ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Aaron kag gusto man niya siya nga patyon, pero sadto nga tion nagpangamuyo man ako para sa iya.
Dayon ginkuha ko ang baka nga inyo ginhimo, nga nagtulod sa inyo sa pagpakasala, kag gintunaw ko ini sa kalayo. Pagkatapos gindugmok ko gid ini pareho kapino sang yab-ok, kag ginsabwag sa ililigan sang tubig nga nagahalin sa bukid.
“Ginpaakig man ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Tabera, sa Masa, kag sa Kibrot Hataava.
“Sang ginpalakat kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa Kadesh Barnea nagsiling siya, ‘Lakat kamo kag panag-iyahi na ninyo ang duta nga ginahatag ko sa inyo.’ Pero nagrebelde kamo; wala ninyo pagtumana ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Wala kamo nagsalig ukon nagtuman sa iya.
Halin sang nakilala ko kamo puro lang pagrebelde sa Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo ginahimo.
“Amo gani nga naghapa ako sadto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i tungod kay nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga laglagon niya kamo.
Nagpangamuyo ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , ‘O Ginoong Dios Dios , indi paglaglaga ang katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan. Ginluwas mo sila kag ginpaguwa sa Egypt paagi sa imo puwerte nga gahom.
Indi pagsapaka ang pagkatig-a sing ulo, ang pagkamalaot, kag ang mga mga sala sang sini nga katawhan, kundi dumduma ang imo mga alagad nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob.
Kon laglagon mo sila, masiling ang mga Egyptohanon, “Ginlaglag sila sang Ginoo Ginoo kay indi siya makasarang sa pagdala sa ila sa duta nga iya ginpromisa sa ila.” Ukon magasiling sila, magasiling sila, “Ginlaglag sila sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay akig siya sa ila; ginpaguwa niya sila sa Egypt sa Egypt kag gindala sa kamingawan para pamatyon.”
Pero imo sila nga katawhan. Sila ang katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan nga ginpaguwa mo sa Egypt paagi sa imo puwerte nga gahom.’
Pero karon makita ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios magauna tabok sa inyo nga daw pareho sa kalayo nga nagapanglamon sa inyo mga kaaway sa inyo mga kaaway . Pierdihon niya sila para madali ninyo sila matabog kag malaglag suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo.
“Kon mapatabog na gani sila sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, indi kamo magsiling sa inyo kaugalingon, ‘Gindala kita diri sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpanag-iya sining duta tungod kay matarong kita.’ Indi amo sina. Ipatabog sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo tungod kay malain sila nga mga nasyon.
Panag-iyahan ninyo ang ila duta indi tungod kay matarong kamo ukon maayo kamo nga mga tawo kundi tungod kay malain sila, kag para matuman sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang iya ginsumpa sa inyo mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob.
Gani dumdumon ninyo nga indi tungod nga mga matarong kamo nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ining maayo nga duta nga inyo panag-iyahan, kay sa matuod lang, mga matig-a kamo sing ulo.
“Dumduma ninyo kon paano ninyo ginpaakig ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa kamingawan. Halin sang adlaw nga nagguwa kamo sa Egypt hasta subong permi lang kamo nagarebelde sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Bisan didto sa Bukid sang Sinai,
Sang nagsaka ako sa bukid sa pagkuha sang malapad nga mga bato nga sa diin nasulat ang kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya ginhimo sa inyo, nagpabilin ako didto sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i nga wala sing kaon-kaon kag inom-inom.
“Sadto nga tion nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Magbasbas ka sang duha ka malapad nga bato pareho sadtong nahauna kag magsaka ka sa akon sa bukid. Maghimo ka man sang kahon nga kahoy.
“Pareho sa ginhimo ko sang una, nagpabilin ako sa bukid sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i, kag sa liwat ginpamatian ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kag wala niya kamo paglaglaga.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, ‘Lakat, kag panguluhi ang mga Israelinhon sa pagsulod kag sa pagpanag-iya sang duta nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag sa inyo mga katigulangan.’
“Kag karon, O katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel, ang ginapangayo lang sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo nga magtahod kamo sa iya, magkabuhi suno sa iya mga pamaagi, maghigugma sa iya, mag-alagad sa iya sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag,
kag magtuman sang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong para sa inyo kaayuhan.
“Iya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang kalangitan, bisan ang pinakamataas nga langit, pati ang kalibutan kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini.
Pero ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo mga katigulangan nga iya higugmaon, kag ginpili niya kamo nga ila mga kaliwat labaw sa tanan nga nasyon, kag hasta subong kamo gihapon ang iya pinili nga katawhan kamo gihapon ang iya pinili nga katawhan .
Gani bag-uha
Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo ang Dios nga labaw sa tanan nga dios kag Ginoo nga labaw sa tanan nga ginoo. Gamhanan siya kag makatilingala nga Dios. Wala siya sing may ginapasulabi kag wala siya nagabaton sang lagay.
Ginaprotektaran niya ang kinamatarong sang mga ilo kag sang mga balo nga babayi. Ginahigugma niya ang mga pangayaw
Gani higugmaa man ninyo ang mga pangayaw, kay kamo mga pangayaw man sadto sa Egypt.
Isulat ko sa sining malapad nga bato ang mga pulong nga ginsulat ko man sa nahauna nga bato nga ginbuka mo. Dayon isulod mo ini sa kahon.’
Tahura ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag alagara ninyo siya. Magpabilin kamo sa iya kag magsumpa kamo sa iya lang ngalan.
Dayawa ninyo siya, kay siya ang inyo Dios nga naghimo sang gamhanan kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga inyo mismo nakita.
Sang pagkadto sang inyo mga katigulangan sa Egypt, 70 lang sila tanan, pero subong ginpadamo kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga daw pareho kadamo sang bituon sa langit.
“Gani naghimo ako sang kahon nga akasya kag nagbasbas sang duha ka malapad nga bato nga pareho sadtong nahauna, kag nagsaka sa bukid dala ang duha ka bato.
Ginsulat sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sining malapad nga bato ang iya ginsulat sang una, ang Napulo ka Sugo nga ginhatag niya sa inyo sang naghambal siya halin sa kalayo sadtong adlaw nga nagtipon kamo sa bukid. Sang mahatag na ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
nagpanaog ako sa bukid kag ginsulod ko ini sa kahon nga akon ginhimo, suno sa ginmando sa akon sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag hasta subong ara pa ini didto.”
Nagpanglakaton ang mga Israelinhon halin sa mga bubon sang mga taga-Jaakan
Halin didto nagkadto sila sa Gudgoda kag dayon sa Jotbata, isa ka lugar nga may mga ililigan sang tubig.
Sadto nga tion, ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tribo ni Levi sa pagdala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa pag-alagad sa iya presensya, kag sa pagbendisyon sa mga tawo sa mga tawo sa iya ngalan. Hasta subong amo ini ang ila buluhaton.
Amo ina nga ang mga kaliwat ni Levi wala sing duta nga palanublion pareho sang nabaton sang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon. Ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo amo ang ila palanublion
“Higugmaa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag tumana ninyo permi ang iya mga ginapatuman, mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo.
Kay ang duta nga inyo sudlon kag panag-iyahan indi pareho sa duta sang Egypt nga inyo ginhalinan. Didto sa Egypt, kon magtanom kamo nagapangabudlay pa kamo sing tudo sa pagbunyag.
Pero ang duta nga inyo panag-iyahan may mga bukid kag mga patag nga permi lang ginaulanan.
Ini nga duta ginaatipan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios; ginabantayan niya ini adlaw-adlaw sa bilog nga tuig!
“Gani kon tumanon lang ninyo permi ang mga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, nga higugmaon ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag alagaran sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag sa bug-os nga kalag,
padal-an niya kamo sang ulan sa husto nga panahon para makapatubas kamo sang uyas, sang ubas para himuon nga ubas para himuon nga bino, kag sang olibo para himuon nga olibo para himuon nga lana.
Hatagan niya sang palahalban ang inyo kasapatan, kag kamo mismo may bugana nga pagkaon.
“Mag-andam gid kamo kay basi bala maganyat kamo sa pagbiya sa Dios kag magsimba sa iban nga mga dios kag mag-alagad sa ila.
Kon himuon ninyo ini, mangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo kag indi na niya pagpaulanon kag indi na kamo makapatubas, kag magakalawala kamo gilayon sa maayo nga duta nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo.
Gani itanom gid ninyo ining akon mga pulong sa inyo tagipusuon kag hunahuna. Ihigot ninyo ini sa inyo mga butkon ukon ibutang sa inyo mga agtang bilang padumdom sa inyo.
Itudlo ini sa inyo mga kabataan. Hambali ninyo ini kon ara kamo sa inyo balay kag kon nagalakat kamo, kon nagahigda kamo kag kon magbangon kamo.
Dumduma ninyo karon ang inyo naeksperiensyahan nga inyo naeksperiensyahan nga pagdisiplina sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Kamo ang nakaeksperiensya sini kag indi ang inyo mga anak. Wala sila makakita sang pagkahalangdon kag pagkagamhanan sang Ginoo Ginoo
Isulat ninyo ini sa mga hamba sang puwertahan sang puwertahan sang inyo mga balay kag sa mga puwertahan sang inyo mga banwa sang inyo mga banwa ,
para kamo kag ang inyo mga anak mabuhi sing malawig didto sa duta nga ginsumpa sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihatag sa inyo mga katigulangan. Panag-iyahan ninyo ini Panag-iyahan ninyo ini samtang may langit sa ibabaw sang kalibutan.
“Kon tumanon ninyo sing maayo ining tanan nga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo, nga higugmaon ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag magkabuhi suno sa iya mga pamaagi kag magpabilin sa iya,
ipatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo ang mga nasyon sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan bisan mas dalagko kag gamhanan sila sang sa inyo.
Ang tanan nga duta nga inyo matapakan mangin inyo: halin sa kamingawan pakadto sa Lebanon, kag halin sa Suba sang Euphrates pakadto sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo.
Wala sing may makapugong sa inyo. Suno sa ginpromisa sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, pahadlukon niya ang mga tawo sa inyo sa bisan diin nga lugar nga inyo kadtuan sa sina nga duta.
“Pamati! Ginapapili ko kamo subong. Gusto bala ninyo nga pakamaayuhon ukon pakamalauton?
Pakamaayuhon kamo kon tumanon ninyo ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Pakamalauton kamo kon indi ninyo pagtumanon ini nga mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, kag magsimba sa iban nga mga dios nga wala gani ninyo makilal-i.
Kon dal-on na kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan, isugid ninyo ang pagpakamaayo sa Bukid sang Gerizim kag ang pagpakamalaot sa Bukid sang Ebal.
kag sang mga milagro nga iya ginpanghimo sa Egypt kontra sa Faraon nga hari sang Egypt kag sa iya bilog nga nasyon.
Ini nga mga bukid ara sa west sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, sa duta sang mga Canaanhon nga nagaestar sa Kapatagan sang Jordan
Manugtabok na kamo sa Jordan sa pagsulod kag sa pagpanag-iya sang duta nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo. Kon makuha na ninyo ini kag didto na kamo nagaestar,
tumana gid ninyo ang tanan nga sugo kag pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Wala man nila makita Wala man nila makita ang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga soldado nga Egyptohanon kag sa ila sini nga mga kabayo kag mga karwahe, kon paano sila ginlumsan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Mapula nga Dagat sang ginlagas nila kamo. Ginlaglag sila sang Ginoo Ginoo kag wala na sila hasta subong!
Wala man makita sang inyo mga anak Wala man makita sang inyo mga anak ang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo didto sa kamingawan hasta nga nakaabot kamo sa sini nga lugar,
kag kon ano ang iya ginhimo kay Datan kag kay Abiram, nga mga anak ni Eliab nga kaliwat ni Reuben. Ginlamon sila sang duta nga napihak, pati ang ila mga pamilya, tolda, kag ang tanan nila nga kaupod.
Kamo mismo ang nakakita sining gamhanan nga mga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Gani tumana ninyo ang tanan nga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, para may kusog kamo sa paglakat kag sa pagpanag-iya sang duta didto sa tabok sang Jordan sang Jordan .
Kon magtuman kamo, magakabuhi kamo sing malawig didto sa duta nga maayo kag mapatubason,
“Amo ini ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga kinahanglan nga tumanon ninyo sing maayo samtang nagakabuhi kamo didto sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan.
Kon makatabok na kamo sa Jordan kag mag-estar sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios bilang palanublion ninyo, magakabuhi kamo nga malinong kay indi pagtugutan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga tublagon kamo sang inyo mga kaaway sa palibot.
Dayon dal-on ninyo ang inyo mga halad didto sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga sa diin padunggan siya. Amo ini ang mga halad nga ginasugo ko sa inyo: mga halad nga ginasunog kag ang iban pa nga mga halad, ang inyo ikanapulo, ang espesyal nga mga regalo, kag ang tanan nga pinakamaayo nga halad nga inyo ginpromisa sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Didto magkinalipay kamo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, upod ang inyo mga kabataan, mga suluguon, kag ang mga Levita nga wala sing duta nga palanublion kundi nagaestar lang sa inyo mga banwa.
Indi gid ninyo pag-ihalad ang inyo mga halad nga ginasunog sa bisan diin lang nga lugar nga gusto ninyo,
kundi ihalad lang ini sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo sa isa ninyo ka tribo, kag didto himua ninyo ang tanan nga ginasugo ko sa inyo.
“Puwede kamo makaihaw kag makakaon sang sapat sa bisan diin kamo nagaestar.
Pero indi ninyo pagkaunon ang dugo; iula ninyo ini sa duta pareho sang tubig.
Indi man ninyo pagkaunon o imnon ining mga masunod: ang ikanapulo sang inyo uyas, duga sang ubas, lana, ang kamagulangan sang inyo mga kasapatan, ang bisan ano nga inyo ginpromisa nga ihalad, ang inyo mga halad nga kinabubut-on kag mga regalo.
Kundi kaunon lang ninyo ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios didto sa lugar nga iya pilion upod sang inyo mga kabataan, mga suluguon, kag sang mga Levita nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa. Didto magkinalipay kamo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan ninyo nga himuon.
Indi gid ninyo pagpabay-i ang mga Levita samtang nagakabuhi kamo sa inyo duta.
Kon palayason na ninyo ang mga katawhan nga nagaestar didto, panggub-a ninyo sing bug-os ang tanan nga lugar nga ginasimbahan nila sang ila mga dios-dios sa mga mataas kag manubo nga mga bukid kag sa idalom sang madabong nga mga kahoy.
“Kon palaparon na sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang inyo teritoryo suno sa iya ginpromisa sa inyo, kag gusto ninyo magkaon sang karne, makapagusto kamo kaon.
Kon malayo sa inyo ang lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga sa diin padunggan siya, puwede kamo makaihaw kag makakaon sang inyo mga baka ukon karnero sa inyo mismo mga lugar. Kag suno sa ginsugo ko sa inyo, makapagusto kamo kaon sang mga sapat nga mga sapat nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo,
pareho sang pagkaon ninyo sang gasela kag sang usa. Ang tagsa ka tawo makakaon sini, ginakabig man siya nga mahigko ukon matinlo.
Basta siguraduhon lang ninyo nga indi ninyo pagkaunon ang dugo, kay ang kabuhi ara sa dugo. Indi ninyo pagkauna ang kabuhi upod sa karne.
Sa baylo, iula ninyo ang dugo sa duta pareho sang tubig.
Indi gid gid ninyo ini pagkaunon para mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan kag sang inyo mga kaliwat, kay ang paglikaw sa pagkaon sang dugo maayo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Basta dal-on lang ninyo sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo balaan nga mga halad kag ang mga halad nga inyo ginpromisa sa iya.
Ihalad ninyo ang karne sang inyo mga halad nga ginasunog sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Sa iban iban ninyo nga mga halad kinahanglan man nga iula ninyo ang dugo sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, pero puwede ninyo kaunon ang karne.
Tumana gid ninyo ining tanan nga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo, para mangin maayo gid permi ang inyo kahimtangan kag sang inyo mga kaliwat hasta san-o, kay ang pagtuman sini maayo kag husto sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Ipalaglag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang mga nasyon nga inyo salakayon. Palayason ninyo ang mga pumuluyo sini kag estaran ang ila lugar.
Panggub-a ninyo ang ila mga halaran, pangdugmuka ang ila handumanan nga mga bato, pangsunuga ang ila mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, kag panggub-a ang imahen sang ila mga dios para malimtan na ini sa sina nga mga lugar.
Kon malaglag na ninyo sila, maghalong kamo nga indi kamo masiod sa pagsunod sa ila. Indi kamo mag-usisa parte sa ila mga dios. Indi kamo magsiling, Indi kamo magsiling, ‘Paano sila nagaalagad sa ila mga dios? Sundon ta man ang ila ginahimo.’
Indi gid gid ninyo paghimua ina sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kay sa ila pagsimba ginahimo nila ang tanan nga klase sang makangilil-ad nga butang nga ginakaugtan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginasunog pa gani nila ang ila mga kabataan bilang halad sa ila mga dios.
“Tumana gid ninyo ang tanan nga ginasugo ko sa inyo. Indi ninyo ini pagdugangan ukon pagbuhinan.
“Indi ninyo pagsimbaha ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios pareho sa ila pamaagi sa pagsimba,
kundi magdangop kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa lugar nga iya pilion halin sa tanan nga teritoryo nga teritoryo sang mga tribo sang Israel. Didto kamo magsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo , kay amo ina ang lugar nga iya ginpili nga sa diin padunggan siya.
Didto ninyo dal-on ang inyo mga halad nga ginasunog kag iban pa nga mga halad, ang inyo ikanapulo, ang inyo espesyal nga mga regalo, ang inyo mga ginpromisa nga ihalad, ang inyo mga halad nga kinabubut-on, kag ang kamagulangan sang inyo mga kasapatan.
Didto kamo kag ang inyo pamilya magkaon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag magakalipay kamo sa tanan nga inyo nahuman tungod kay ginpakamaayo kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Karon nagapagusto kamo sa inyo mga ginahimo, pero indi na ninyo paghimua ina
kon mag-abot na kamo sa lugar nga sa diin makapahuway kamo. Ini nga lugar ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios bilang palanublion ninyo.
“Kon may isa ka propeta ukon manugpaathag sang kahulugan sang damgo nga magpromisa sa inyo nga magpakita siya sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang,
Batuhon siya hasta nga mapatay tungod kay nagtinguha siya sa pagpalayo sa imo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, nga nagpaguwa sa imo sa Egypt nga sa diin gin-ulipon kamo.
Dayon mabatian ini sang tanan nga Israelinhon kag mahadlok sila, kag wala na dayon sing may maghimo sang sining malain nga buhat sa inyo.
“Halimbawa makabalita kamo didto sa isa sa mga banwa nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga inyo pagapuy-an,
nga may malain nga mga tawo nga nagapatalang kag nagatulod sa mga pumuluyo sang amo nga banwa nga magsimba sa iban nga mga dios nga wala ninyo makilal-i,
kinahanglan nga usisaon ninyo sing maayo kon matuod ini. Kag kon matuod nga natabo ining makangilil-ad nga buhat,
kinahanglan nga pamatyon gid ninyo ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang amo nga banwa pati ang ila kasapatan. Laglagon ninyo sila sing bug-os.
Tipuna ninyo ang tanan nga inyo makuha sa amo nga banwa kag tumpuka ini sa tunga sang plasa, kag dayon sunuga ini kag ang bilog nga banwa bilang isa ka halad nga ginasunog para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Ini nga banwa magapabilin nga guba hasta san-o; indi na gid ini pagpatindugon liwat.
Indi gid ninyo pagtaguon ang bisan ano nga butang dira nga natalana na nga laglagon sing bug-os. Kon tumanon ninyo ini tanan, Kon tumanon ninyo ini tanan, dulaon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya puwerte nga kaakig, kag kaluoyan niya kamo. Kag sa iya kaluoy, padamuon niya kamo suno sa iya ginsumpa sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Himuon ini sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kon tumanon ninyo ang tanan niya nga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, kag kon maghimo kamo sing matarong sa iya panulok.
kag matabo ang iya ginsiling, kag magsiling siya, ‘Magsunod kita kag magsimba sa iban nga mga dios’ (ang mga dios nga wala ninyo makilal-i),
indi kamo magpati sa iya. Ginatestingan lang kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kon bala ginahigugma ninyo siya sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo lang nga inyo Dios ang dapat ninyo sundon kag tahuron. Tumana ang iya mga sugo kag sunda ninyo siya; alagari ninyo siya kag magpabilin kamo sa iya.
Kinahanglan nga patyon inang propeta ukon manugpaathag sang kahulugan sang damgo, tungod kay nagatudlo siya nga magrebelde kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt kag nagluwas sa inyo sa pagkaulipon. Ina nga tawo nagatinguha lang sa pagpalayo sa inyo sa mga pamaagi nga ginmando sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga inyo sundon. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan
“Halimbawa ang imo utod ukon anak, ukon ang imo pinalangga nga asawa ukon ang imo labing suod nga abyan, magganyat sa imo sa sekreto kag magsiling, ‘Masimba kita sa iban nga mga dios’ (ang mga dios nga wala mo makilal-i kag bisan sang imo mga katigulangan,
mga dios nga ginasimba sang mga tawo sa inyo palibot ukon sang mga tawo sa malayo nga lugar),
indi ka gid magpadala-dala ukon magpamati sa iya. Indi mo siya pagkaluoyan ukon pag-apinan.
Kinahanglan nga patyon gid siya. Ikaw ang una nga magbato sa pagpatay sa iya, kag dayon ang tanan nga tawo.
“Mga anak kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Gani kon magpangasubo kamo sa patay, indi ninyo pagpilasan ang inyo kaugalingon ukon pagkiskisan ang inyo ulo.
Pero indi gid ninyo pagkaunon ang wala sing sirik kag himbis. Kabigon ninyo ini nga mahigko.
Puwede ninyo kaunon ang bisan ano nga klase sang pispis nga ginakabig nga matinlo.
Indi man ninyo pagkaunon ang mga sapat-sapat nga nagalupad.
Kay katawhan kamo nga ginseparar para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Sa tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan, kamo ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga mangin iya espesyal nga katawhan.
Pero puwede ninyo kaunon ang mga sapat nga nagalupad nga ginakabig nga matinlo.
“Kinahanglan nga painon ninyo ang ikanapulo sang tanan nga patubas sang inyo uma kada tuig.
Dal-a ninyo ang ikanapulo sang inyo mga uyas, duga sang ubas, lana, kag ang kamagulangan sang inyo mga kasapatan sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga sa diin padunggan siya. Kag didto ninyo ini kaunon sa iya presensya. Himuon ninyo ini para makahibalo kamo magtahod permi sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Pero kon malayo gani sa inyo ang amo nga lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag mabudlayan kamo sa pagdala sang ikanapulo sang mga pagpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios,
bayluhan ninyo ang inyo ikanapulo sang kuwarta kag dal-on ninyo ang kuwarta didto sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Dayon ibakal ninyo ang kuwarta sang baka, karnero, bino, ukon sang bisan ano nga inyo naluyagan. Dayon kaunon ninyo ini sang inyo pamilya sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag magkinalipay.
Kag indi ninyo pagkalimtan ang mga Levita nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa, kay wala sila sing duta nga palanublion.
“Sa katapusan sang kada ikatlo nga tuig, tipuna ninyo ang ikanapulo sang inyo patubas sa amo nga tuig, kag dal-a ini sa ginataguan sini sa inyo mga banwa.
Ihatag ninyo ini sa mga Levita (nga wala sing duta nga palanublion), sa mga pangayaw, sa mga ilo, kag sa mga balo nga babayi nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa para makakaon man sila kag mabusog. Kon himuon ninyo ini, Kon himuon ninyo ini, pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo.
“Indi kamo magkaon sang bisan ano nga sapat nga ginakabig nga mahigko.
Amo ini ang mga sapat nga puwede ninyo kaunon: baka, karnero, kanding,
usa, talunon nga kanding, talunon nga karnero kag iban pa nga klase sang usa.
Puwede ninyo kaunon ang bisan ano nga sapat nga nagapihak ang ila kuko kag nagausang liwat sang ila kinaon.
Pero indi ninyo pagkaunon ang mga sapat nga nagausang liwat sang ila kinaon pero wala nagapihak ang ila kuko, pareho sang camel, koneho kag badier.
Indi man ninyo pagkaunon ang baboy, kay bisan tuod nga nagapihak ang iya kuko wala ini nagausang liwat sang iya kinaon. Indi gid kamo magkaon sang sini nga mga sapat ukon magtandog sang ila patay nga mga lawas.
“Puwede ninyo kaunon ang bisan ano nga sapat nga nagakabuhi sa tubig nga may mga sirik kag mga himbis.
“Sa katapusan sang kada ikapito nga tuig, kinahanglan nga kanselahon na ninyo ang tanan nga utang.
Maghatag kamo sa iya sing maalwan nga wala nagalain ang inyo buot. Kon himuon ninyo ini pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo.
Indi madula nga may mga imol sa inyo nasyon, gani ginamanduan ko kamo nga magmaalwan gid kamo sa ila.
“Kon ang imo kapareho nga Hebreo, lalaki man ukon babayi, ginbaligya sa imo bilang ulipon bilang ulipon , kag nag-alagad siya sa imo sa sulod sang anom ka tuig, kinahanglan nga hilwayon mo siya sa ikapito nga tuig.
Kag kon hilwayon mo na siya, indi siya pagpalakta nga wala sing dala.
Hatagi siya nga may kaalwan sang imo mga kasapatan, trigo, kag duga sang ubas suno sa pagpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios sa imo.
Dumdumon ninyo nga mga ulipon man kamo sadto sa Egypt kag ginhilway man kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Amo ina nga ginahatag ko ini nga sugo sa inyo subong.
“Pero kon magsiling ang imo ulipon sa imo, ‘Indi ako maghalin sa imo kay palangga ko ikaw kag ang imo panimalay, kag maayo ang akon kahimtangan diri sa imo,’
dal-on mo siya sa puwertahan sang imo balay kag tuhugan mo siya sa dulunggan sang inugtuhog kag mangin ulipon mo na siya sa bilog niya nga kabuhi. Amo man sini ang himuon mo sa imo ulipon nga babayi.
“Indi maglangot ang imo buot kon hilwayon mo ang imo ulipon kay ang bili sang iya pagserbisyo sa imo sa sulod sang anom ka tuig doble pa sa suhol sang isa ka trabahador. Kon himuon mo ini pakamaayuhon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang tanan mo nga ginahimo.
“Iseparar ninyo para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang tanan nga kamagulangan nga lalaki sang inyo mga kasapatan. Indi ninyo pagpaobraha ang mga kamagulangan sang inyo mga baka ukon pagguntingan ang mga kamagulangan sang inyo mga karnero.
Amo ini ang inyo himuon: Kinahanglan nga kanselahon na sang nagpautang ang utang sang iya kapareho nga Israelinhon nga Israelinhon . Indi na niya pagsukton kay nag-abot na ang tion nga gintalana sang Ginoo Ginoo nga kanselahon ang mga utang.
Sa baylo, kaunon ninyo ini kag sang inyo pamilya sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa lugar nga iya pilion. Amo ina ang inyo himuon kada tuig.
Pero kon ang ini nga sapat may deperensya, halimbawa piang ukon bulag ukon iban pa nga depekto, kinahanglan nga indi ninyo ini pag-ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Sa baylo, kaunon ninyo ini sa inyo mga banwa. Ang tanan makakaon sini, ginakabig man siya nga mahigko ukon matinlo, pareho sang pagkaon ninyo sang usa ukon gasela.
Pero kinahanglan nga indi ninyo pagkaunon ang dugo, kundi iula ninyo ini sa duta pareho sang tubig.
Puwede ninyo sukton ang mga pangayaw, pero kinahanglan nga kanselahon ninyo ang utang sang inyo kapareho nga Israelinhon nga Israelinhon .
“Dapat wala sing imol sa inyo, kay pakamaayuhon gid kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa duta nga ginahatag niya sa inyo nga inyo panag-iyahan.
Ina kon tumanon gid ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag sundon sing maayo ang tanan nga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios suno sa iya ginpromisa sa inyo. Madamo nga nasyon ang manghulam sa inyo pero kamo ya indi magpanghulam. Dumalahan ninyo ang madamo nga nasyon pero kamo ya indi pagdumalahan.
“Kon may ara gid man sang imol sa inyo mga banwa, sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, indi kamo magdinalok sa ila.
Kundi magmaalwan kamo kag pahulamon ninyo sila sang ila mga kinahanglanon.
Indi kamo maghunahuna sing malain, nga tungod nga malapit na ang ikapito nga tuig, ang tuig nga kanselahon na ang mga utang, indi na lang kamo magpahulam sa inyo imol nga kasimanwa. Kon magdangop ining imol nga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa inyo ginhimo, may salabton kamo.
“Sauluga ninyo ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sa bulan sang Aviv
Dayon sauluga ninyo ang Piesta sang Pag-ani sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios paagi sa paghalad sang inyo mga halad nga kinabubut-on suno sa mga pagpakamaayo nga inyo nabaton halin sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Kag magkinalipay kamo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa lugar nga iya pilion nga sa diin padunggan siya. Magsaulog kamo kaupod sang inyo mga kabataan, mga suluguon, mga Levita nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa, mga pangayaw, mga ilo kag mga balo nga babayi nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa.
Dumdumon ninyo nga mga ulipon kamo sadto sa Egypt, gani sunda ninyo sing maayo ini nga mga pagsulundan.
“Sauluga ninyo ang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw sa katapusan sang tig-alani, pagkatapos nga malinas ninyo ang mga trigo kag mapuga ang mga ubas.
Magkinalipay kamo sa inyo pagsaulog sang sini nga piesta upod sa inyo mga kabataan, mga suluguon, mga Levita, mga pangayaw, mga ilo kag mga balo nga babayi nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa.
Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw sauluga ninyo ini nga Piesta sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa lugar nga iya pilion. Kay pakamaayuhon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang tanan ninyo nga patubas kag ang tanan ninyo nga ginahimo, kag mangin bug-os gid ang inyo kalipay.
“Magbutang kamo sang mga manughukom kag mga opisyal sa tagsa ninyo ka tribo sa tanan nga banwa nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Ini sila magahukom nga wala sing pinilian sa katawhan.
Kinahanglan nga indi nila pagtikuon ang hustisya kag dapat wala sila sing may ginapaboran sa paghukom. Indi sila magbaton sang lagay kay ang lagay makapabulag sa maalamon kag sa matarong, kag makaimpluwensya sa ila desisyon.
Maghalad kamo sang karnero ukon baka bilang pagsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Ihalad ninyo ini para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios didto sa lugar nga iya pilion nga sa diin padunggan siya.
Dapat mangibabaw ang hustisya para padayon kamo nga mabuhi kag makapanag-iya sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Indi kamo magpatindog sang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera sa tupad sang halaran nga inyo himuon para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios,
kag indi kamo magpatindog sang handumanan nga bato para simbahon para simbahon , kay ginakaugtan ini sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
Kaunon ninyo ini upod sa tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok. Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw magkaon kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok pareho sang inyo ginhimo sang nagdali-dali kamo halin sa Egypt. Kauna ninyo ini nga tinapay nga simbolo sang inyo mga pag-antos, para madumduman ninyo sa bilog ninyo nga kabuhi ang tion nga nagguwa kamo sa Egypt.
Kinahanglan nga wala sing may makita nga inugpahabok sa inyo mga balay mga balay sa bilog nga nasyon sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Kag kinahanglan nga ang karne nga ginhalad sang sirom sang nahauna nga adlaw indi pag-ibilinan pagkaaga.
“Ang sapat nga inyo ihalad bilang pagsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel indi ninyo pag-ihalad sa bisan diin lang nga banwa nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios,
kundi sa lugar lang nga iya pilion nga sa diin padunggan siya. Kag Kag kinahanglan nga ihalad ninyo ini sa pagsalop sang adlaw, nga amo ang oras nga naghalin kamo sa Egypt.
Lutuon ninyo ini kag kaunon sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Dayon pagkaaga magbalik kamo sa inyo mga tolda.
Sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw, magkaon kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok. Kag sa ikapito nga adlaw, indi kamo mag-obra kundi magtipon kamo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Mag-isip kamo sang pito ka semana halin sa pag-umpisa sang tig-alani.
“Indi kamo maghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang baka ukon karnero ukon kanding nga may deperensya, kay makangilil-ad ini sa iya.
Kinahanglan nga batunon ninyo ang ila desisyon didto sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo . Tumanon gid ninyo ang tanan nila nga isiling sa inyo.
Kon ano man ang ila madesisyunan suno sa kasuguan, dapat sundon ninyo. Indi ninyo pagsupakon ang ila isiling sa inyo.
Ang tawo nga indi magbaton sa desisyon sang hukom ukon sang pari nga nagaalagad sa sina nga tion sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios dapat patyon. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan
Kon mabatian ini sang tanan nga tawo, mahadlok sila, kag indi na sila magsupak liwat.
“Kon makasulod na gani kamo sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag mapanag-iyahan na ninyo ini kag didto na kamo nagaestar, mahimo nga magsiling kamo, ‘Mapili kita sang hari nga magapangulo sa aton pareho sang mga nasyon sa palibot ta.’
Siguruha ninyo nga ang inyo pilion nga hari amo ang tawo nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag kinahanglan nga kapareho ninyo nga Israelinhon. Indi kamo magpili sang indi Israelinhon.
Ang inyo hari indi dapat magtipon sang madamo nga kabayo, kag indi niya dapat pabalikon ang iya mga tawo sa Egypt sa pagbakal sang mga kabayo, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nagsiling sa inyo nga indi na gid kamo magbalik didto.
Kinahanglan nga indi madamo ang iya asawa kay basi bala magtalikod siya sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag kinahanglan nga indi siya mag-angkon sang madamo nga pilak kag bulawan.
“Kon magpungko na siya sa trono bilang hari, kinahanglan nga kopyahon niya ini nga mga kasuguan sa linukot nga sululatan para sa iya kaugalingon sa atubangan sang mga pari
Kinahanglan nga tipigan niya ini kag basahon permi sa bilog niya nga kabuhi para makatuon siya sa pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios kag masunod niya sing maayo ang tanan nga ginasiling sang sini nga mga kasuguan kag mga pagsulundan.
“Halimbawa ang isa ka lalaki ukon babayi nga nagaestar sa isa sa mga banwa nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nadakpan nga nagahimo sang malain sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Naglapas siya sa kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo
Paagi man sa pagbasa sini permi, makalikaw siya sa pagpabugal nga mas maayo siya sang sa iya kapareho nga mga Israelinhon, kag makalikaw siya sa paglapas sa mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kon tumanon niya ini tanan, Kon tumanon niya ini tanan, siya kag ang iya mga kaliwat magahari sing malawig sa Israel.
kag nagsupak sa iya sugo paagi sa pagsimba sa iban nga mga dios ukon sa adlaw, bulan, ukon sa iban pa nga mga butang sa kalangitan.
Kon mabatian ninyo ini, kinahanglan nga usisaon ninyo ini sing maayo. Kon matuod gid man nga ining makangilil-ad nga butang ginahimo sa Israel,
dal-a ninyo sa puwertahan sang inyo banwa ang ina nga tawo nga naghimo sing malain kag batuhon hasta nga mapatay.
Puwede nga patyon ang tawo kon mapamatud-an nga nakasala siya paagi sa pagsugid sang duha ukon tatlo ka saksi, pero kon isa lang ka saksi indi siya puwede nga patyon.
Ang mga saksi amo ang una nga magbato sa iya, kag dayon ang tanan nga tawo. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan
“Halimbawa may mga kaso sa inyo korte parte sa pagpatay, pag-inaway ukon pagpanakit nga tama kabudlay desisyunan. Ang himuon ninyo, dal-on ninyo ang ina nga kaso sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios
nga sa diin ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi kag ang manughukom nga nagapangalagad sa sina nga tion magadesisyon sang sina nga kaso.
“Ang mga pari nga kaliwat ni Levi, kag ang iban pa nga sakop sang tribo ni Levi, wala sing duta nga palanublion sa mga tribo sang Israel. Magakaon lang sila halin sa mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
Dapat wala sing isa sa inyo nga magsunog sang iya anak bilang halad. Kag indi man kamo magpamakot, magpangbabaylan, magpaathag sang kahulugan sang mga palatandaan, magpanghiwit,
magpangbarang, maghimo sang mga ginahimo sang espiritista, kag magpakig-estorya sa kalag sang mga patay.
Ang bisan sin-o nga maghimo sang sini nga mga butang kangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo . Amo ini ang rason kon ngaa ipatabog na gid sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ina nga mga nasyon.
Dapat wala kamo sing kasawayan sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Ining mga nasyon nga inyo palayason nagadangop sa mga manugpakot ukon sa mga manugbabaylan. Pero kamo ya, ginbawalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa paghimo sini.
Sa baylo, Sa baylo, magapadala sa inyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang isa ka propeta nga pareho sa akon, nga kadugo ninyo. Kinahanglan nga pamatian ninyo siya.
Kay amo ini ang inyo ginpangayo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang nagtipon kamo didto sa Horeb. Nagsiling kamo, ‘Indi na kami pagpabatia sang tingog sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, ukon pagpakitaa sang iya nagadabadaba nga kalayo kay basi magkalamatay kami.’
“Gani nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, ‘Maayo ang ila ginapangabay.
Magapadala ako sa ila sang isa ka propeta nga pareho sa imo, nga kadugo nila. Ipahambal ko sa iya ang tanan nga gusto ko isiling sa ila.
Silutan ko ang bisan sin-o nga indi magpamati sa akon mga pulong nga ginahambal sang propeta sa akon ngalan.
Wala sila sing palanublion pareho sa ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon; ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang ila palanublion suno sa iya ginpromisa sa ila.
Kag kinahanglan nga patyon ang propeta nga maghambal sang mensahi sa akon ngalan nga wala ko pagsugua ukon maghambal siya sa ngalan sang iban nga mga dios.’
“Basi mamangkot kamo, ‘Paano bala namon mahibaluan nga ang mensahi sang isa ka propeta indi iya sang Ginoo Ginoo ?’
Kon ang ginahambal sang propeta sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo indi matabo ukon matuman, ina nga mensahi indi iya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Iya-iya lang ina sang amo nga propeta, gani indi kamo magkahadlok sa iya.
“Amo ini ang mga parte nga para sa mga pari halin sa mga baka ukon karnero ukon kanding nga halad sang mga tawo: ang abaga, ang sag-ang kag ang tiyan.
Ihatag man ninyo sa mga pari ang nahauna nga parte sang inyo mga produkto nga produkto nga uyas, duga sang ubas, lana kag bulbol sang karnero.
Kay sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel sang Israel sila kag ang ila mga kaliwat amo ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa pag-alagad sa iya hasta san-o.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga Levita nga nagaestar sa bisan diin nga banwa sang Israel makakadto sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
kag makaalagad siya didto sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, pareho sa iya kapareho nga mga Levita nga nagaalagad didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Makabaton man siya sang iya parte sa mga halad bisan may ara siya nga ginabaton halin sa iban niya nga palangabuhian.
“Kon makasulod na gani kamo sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, indi ninyo pagsundon ang makangilil-ad nga mga pagginawi sang mga pumuluyo didto.
“Kon laglagon na sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang mga nasyon nga ang ila duta ginahatag niya sa inyo, kag kon mapalayas na ninyo sila kag didto na kamo nagaestar sa ila mga banwa kag mga balay,
Dugangi ninyo ang banwa nga dalangpan Dugangi ninyo ang banwa nga dalangpan para wala sing inosente nga tawo nga mapatay sa inyo duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios bilang palanublion ninyo, kag para indi kamo pagsukton kon may inosente nga tawo nga inosente nga tawo nga mapatay.
“Pero kon ang isa ka tawo nagadumot sa iya kapareho kag ginbantayan niya ini kag ginpatay, kag dayon nagpalagyo siya sa isa sa mga banwa nga dalangpan nga dalangpan ,
kinahanglan nga ipakuha siya sang mga manugdumala sang iya banwa kag itugyan sa gusto magbalos sa iya para patyon siya.
Indi ninyo siya pagkaluoyi. Kinahanglan nga dulaon ninyo sa Israel ang pagpamatay sa mga inosente nga mga tawo para mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan.
“Kon mag-abot kamo sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga inyo panag-iyahan, indi ninyo pagkawaton ang duta sang imo kapareho paagi sa paghalin sang muhon
“Indi ninyo pagsentensyahi ang isa ka tawo nga nakasala siya tungod sa pagpamatuod sang isa lang ka saksi. Kinahanglan nga may duha ukon tatlo ka saksi nga makapamatuod nga ang isa ka tawo nakasala.
Kon ang isa ka saksi magbinutig sa korte kag magpahayag nga nakasala ang isa ka tawo,
sila nga duha patindugon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa atubangan sang mga pari kag sang mga manughukom nga nagaalagad sa sina nga tion.
Kinahanglan nga imbistigaron gid ini sing maayo sang mga manughukom. Kag kon mapamatud-an nga nagabinutig ang saksi paagi sa pagbutang-butang sa iya isigkatawo,
kinahanglan nga silutan siya sang silot nga para kuntani sa akusado. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan sa inyo.
magpili kamo sang tatlo ka banwa nga dalangpan nga dalangpan sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga inyo panag-iyahan.
Ang makabati parte sini mahadlok kag wala na gid sing may maghimo liwat sining malain nga buhat.
Kinahanglan nga indi kamo magpakita sang inyo kaluoy. Kon ginpatay sang isa ka tawo ang iya isigkatawo, dapat patyon man siya. Kon ginbulag niya siya, dapat bulagon man siya. Kon ginbingaw niya siya, dapat bingawon man siya. Kon ginbali niya ang iya kamot ukon tiil, dapat balion man ang iya kamot ukon tiil.
Partidaha ninyo sa tatlo ka distrito ang duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, nga may isa ka banwa nga dalangpan nga dalangpan sa kada distrito. Kay-uha ninyo ang mga dalan pakadto sa sini nga mga banwa, para ang bisan sin-o nga makapatay sang tawo makapalagyo sa isa sa sini nga mga banwa.
Kon ang isa ka tawo nakapatay sang iya isigkatawo nga indi niya hungod kag wala man sing dumot, makapalagyo siya sa isa sa sini nga mga banwa nga dalangpan kag wala sing may mag-ano sa iya.
“Halimbawa, nagkadto ang isa ka tawo upod sang iya tupad-balay sa kakahuyan sa pagpangahoy. Samtang nagautod siya sang kahoy gulpi lang nga nahukas ang ulo sang iya wasay kag naigo ang iya tupad-balay kag napatay. Puwede siya makapalagyo sa isa sa sini nga mga banwa nga dalangpan nga dalangpan kag wala sing may mag-ano sa iya.
Kon isa lang ang banwa nga dalangpan Kon isa lang ang banwa nga dalangpan basi malayo ini para sa tawo nga nakapatay, kag malagas siya sang tawo nga gusto magbalos sa iya, kag mapatay siya. Pero indi siya dapat nga patyon kay ang iya pagpatay indi hungod kag wala man sing dumot.
Amo ini ang rason kon ngaa ginasugo ko kamo sa pagpili sang tatlo ka banwa nga dalangpan nga dalangpan .
“Palaparon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang inyo teritoryo suno sa iya ginpromisa sa inyo mga katigulangan, kag mangin inyo na ang bilog nga duta nga iya ginpromisa sa ila.
Himuon ini sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kon sundon ninyo sing maayo ining tanan nga sugo nga ginasugo ko sa inyo subong, nga higugmaon ninyo siya kag magkabuhi kamo permi suno sa iya mga pamaagi. Kon maglapad na ang inyo teritoryo, Kon maglapad na ang inyo teritoryo, magdugang kamo sang tatlo pa ka banwa nga dalangpan nga dalangpan .
“Kon maglakat gani kamo sa pagpakig-away sa inyo mga kaaway, kag makita ninyo ang ila mga kabayo, mga karwahe kag mga soldado nga mas madamo pa sang sa inyo, indi kamo magkahadlok sa ila, kay kaupod ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt.
“Kon magsalakay kamo sa isa ka banwa, hatagi anay ninyo ang mga pumuluyo sang kahigayunan nga magsurender.
Kon magsurender sila kag abrihan nila para sa inyo ang puwertahan sang ila banwa ang puwertahan sang ila banwa , himuon ninyo sila tanan nga ulipon kag paobrahon ninyo sila para sa inyo sa gusto man nila ukon indi.
Pero kon indi gani sila magsurender kundi magpakig-away sila sa inyo, salakaya ninyo sila.
Kon itugyan na sila sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, pamatyon ninyo ang tanan nila nga mga lalaki.
Pero puwede ninyo bihagon ang mga babayi, ang mga kabataan, kag ang mga kasapatan, kag puwede ninyo kuhaon ang tanan nga pagkabutang nga ara sa sina nga banwa. Gamita ninyo ini nga mga butang nga ginhatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios halin sa inyo mga kaaway.
Himuon lang ninyo ini sa mga banwa nga malayo kag indi parte sang duta nga pagasakupon ninyo.
Pero sa mga banwa nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios bilang palanublion ninyo, pamatyon gid ninyo ang tanan.
Laglagon ninyo sing bug-os
Kay kon indi, tudluan nila kamo sang tanan nga makangilil-ad nga mga buhat nga ila ginahimo sa ila pagsimba sa ila mga dios, kag tungod sini makasala kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Kon ang inyo pagsalakay sa isa ka banwa madugay, indi ninyo pagpanapson ang mga kahoy. Kauna ninyo ang mga bunga sini pero indi ninyo pagpanapson. Kay indi sila mga kaaway nga inyo laglagon.
Antes kamo magkadto sa inaway magtindog anay sa tunga ang pari kag magsiling sa mga soldado,
Pero puwede ninyo tapson ang mga kahoy nga ang bunga sini indi puwede makaon, kag gamiton ninyo ini nga pangsalakay sa banwa hasta nga maagaw ninyo ini.
‘Pamati kamo, O katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel. Indi kamo magkahadlok sa inyo pagpakig-away subong. Magpakaisog kamo kag indi kamo magsinalasala.
Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios magaupod sa inyo! Magapakig-away siya para sa inyo kontra sa inyo mga kaaway kag padag-on niya kamo!’
“Dayon masiling ang mga opisyal sa mga soldado, ‘Kon may ara sa inyo nga bag-o lang nakapatindog sang iya balay kag wala pa niya ini madedikar sa Ginoo Ginoo , magpuli siya kay basi bala mapatay siya sa inaway kag ang iban nga tawo ang magdedikar sang iya balay.
Kon may ara sa inyo nga nakatanom sang ubas kag wala pa siya makapulos sang bunga sini, magpuli siya kay basi bala mapatay siya sa inaway kag ang iban nga tawo ang magapulos sini.
Kon may ara sa inyo nga kalaslon, magpuli siya kay basi bala mapatay siya sa inaway kag ang iban nga tawo ang magpangasawa sang iya palangasaw-on.’
“Masiling pa gid ang mga opisyal, ‘Kon may ara sa inyo nga nahadlok ukon nakulbaan, magpuli siya kay basi pati ang iya mga kaupod makulbaan man.’
Kon makatapos na ang mga opisyal sa paghambal sa mga soldado, magpili dayon sila sang mga kumander sa pagpangulo sa mga soldado.
“Halimbawa may bangkay sang tawo nga nakita sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga inyo panag-iyahan, kag wala mahibalui kon sin-o ang nagpatay sini.
“Halimbawa nagpakig-away kamo sa inyo mga kaaway kag gintugyan sila sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag ginbihag ninyo sila.
Kag halimbawa ang isa sa inyo nakakita sang isa ka guwapa nga babayi sa mga bihag kag naluyag siya sa iya kag gusto niya siya nga pangasaw-on.
Kon matabo ini, dal-on niya ang babayi sa iya balay kag kalbuhon, utdan ang mga kuko,
kag ilisan ang bayo nga ginasuksok sang ginbihag ini. Kinahanglan magpabilin sa iya balay ang babayi sa sulod sang isa ka bulan samtang nagapangasubo ang babayi para sa iya mga ginikanan. Pagkatapos sina, puwede na siya nga pangasaw-on.
Pero kon sa ulihi wala na siya sing gana sa babayi, dapat palakton niya ini sa bisan diin nga gusto niya. Indi niya siya pag-ibaligya ukon pag-ulipunon tungod kay ginpakahuy-an na niya siya.
“Halimbawa may isa ka tawo nga duha ang iya asawa, kag ginahigugma niya ang isa pero ang isa wala, kag may mga kabataan siya sa ila nga duha. Kag halimbawa ang iya kamagulangan nga lalaki bata sang iya asawa nga wala niya ginahigugma.
Kon partihon na gani niya ang iya pagkabutang sa iya mga anak, kinahanglan nga ang parte nga para sa iya kamagulangan nga anak indi pag-ihatag sa anak sang iya asawa nga ginahigugma niya. Dapat ihatag gid niya ini sa kamagulangan bisan ang iloy sini wala niya ginahigugma.
Dapat kilalahon niya nga iya kamagulangan nga anak ang anak sang iya asawa nga wala niya ginahigugma. Kag ihatag niya sa iya ang doble nga parte sang iya pagkabutang kay siya ang nahauna niya nga anak kag may kinamatarong siya sa pagbaton sang iya parte bilang kamagulangan nga anak.
“Halimbawa ang isa ka tawo may anak nga lalaki nga matig-a sing ulo kag rebelde, kag wala nagasunod sa iya mga ginikanan bisan ginadisiplina nila siya.
Kon matabo ini, dal-on sang mga ginikanan ining ila anak sa mga manugdumala didto sa puwertahan sang banwa.
Kinahanglan nga takson sang inyo mga manugdumala kag mga manughukom ang distansya sang bangkay sa mga banwa sa palibot.
Masiling dayon sila sa mga manugdumala, ‘Ining anak namon matig-a sing ulo kag rebelde; wala siya nagatuman sa amon. Gastador siya kag palahubog.’
Kinahanglan nga batuhon siya sang tanan nga pumuluyo sang banwa hasta nga mapatay. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan sa inyo.
“Kon ang isa ka tawo ginsilutan sang kamatayon tungod sang krimen nga iya nahimo, kag ang iya bangkay ginbitay sa kahoy,
kinahanglan nga indi maagahan ang iya bangkay didto sa kahoy. Dapat ilubong ninyo ini sa amo man nga adlaw, kay ang bisan sin-o nga ginbitay sa kahoy ginpakamalaot sang Dios. Indi ninyo pagdagtaan ang duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios bilang palanublion ninyo.
Dayon ang mga manugdumala sang banwa nga pinakamalapit sa nahamtangan sang bangkay magkuha sang bataon nga babayi nga baka nga wala pa gid makaagi obra ukon arado.
Dal-on nila ini sa ililigan sang tubig nga ang duta sa tupad sini ang duta sa tupad sini wala pa gid maarado ukon matamnan. Kag didto balion nila ang liog sang baka.
Dapat magkadto man didto ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, kay ginpili sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga mag-alagad kag maghatag sang bendisyon sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag maghusay sang tanan nga kaso.
Dayon ang tanan nga manugdumala sang banwa nga pinakamalapit sa lugar nga sa diin nakita ang bangkay magpanghugas sang ila mga kamot sa ibabaw sang baka nga ginbali ang liog.
Dayon magasiling sila, ‘Indi kami ang nagpatay kag wala man kami nakakita kon sin-o ang nagpatay.
O Ginoo Ginoo , patawara ang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon nga imo ginluwas sa Egypt sa Egypt . Indi kami pagsukta sa kamatayon sining inosente nga tawo.’ Dayon wala na sila sang salabton sa kamatayon sang sadto nga tawo.
Paagi sa pagtuman sini, indi kamo pagsukton sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpatay, kay nakita niya nga matarong kamo.
“Kon makita ninyo nga nakabuhi ang baka ukon karnero ukon kanding sang inyo kapareho, indi ninyo ini pagpabay-an kundi dal-on ninyo sa tag-iya.
“Indi ninyo pagpareson ang baka kag ang donkey sa pag-arado.
Indi kamo magsuksok sang bayo nga hinimo halin sa duha ka klase sang tela.
“Butangan ninyo sang gaway-gaway ang apat ka corner sang inyo pangtabon nga panapton.
“Halimbawa, ginpangasawa sang isa ka tawo ang isa ka babayi, kag pagkatapos nila hulid, nangakig siya sa iya asawa
kag ginbutang-butangan niya siya. Siling niya, ‘Nadiskobrehan ko sang paghulid ko sa akon asawa nga indi na siya birhen.’
Dayon ang mga ginikanan sang babayi magkadto sa mga manugdumala sang banwa didto sa may puwertahan sang banwa. Magdala sila sang ebidensya nga birhen ang ila anak.
Dayon masiling ang amay sang babayi sa mga manugdumala, ‘Ginpaasawa ko ang akon anak sa sini nga tawo kag karon nangakig siya sa akon anak.
Ginbutang-butangan pa niya ang akon anak paagi sa pagsiling nga indi na ini birhen sang ginpangasawa niya. Pero ari ang ebidensya nga birhen ang akon anak.’ Dayon ipakita sang ginikanan sa mga manugdumala ang hapin sa higdaan sang mag-asawa nga may dugo sa higdaan sang mag-asawa nga may dugo .
Dakpon dayon sang mga manugdumala ang lalaki kag silutan.
Pamultahon nila siya sang 100 ka bilog nga pilak kag ihatag ini sa amay sang babayi, kay ginpakahuy-an niya ang isa ka Israelinhon nga birhen. Kag kinahanglan nga indi gid niya pagbulagan ang babayi samtang buhi siya.
Pero kon malayo ang ginaestaran sang tag-iya ukon wala kamo makakilala sa tag-iya, dal-a sa inyo ang sapat hasta nga mag-abot ang tag-iya nga nagapangita sini. Dayon ihatag ini sa iya.
“Pero kon matuod ang ginasiling sang bana kag wala sing makita nga ebidensya nga birhen ang babayi,
dal-on ang amo nga babayi sa atubangan sang balay sang iya amay kag didto batuhon siya sang mga lalaki sang banwa hasta nga mapatay. Makahuluya nga butang ang iya ginhimo sa Israel paagi sa pagpakighilawas samtang ara pa siya sa poder sang iya amay. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan sa inyo.
“Kon ang isa ka tawo nadakpan nga nagapakighilawas sa babayi nga may bana, sila nga duha sang babayi kinahanglan nga patyon. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan sa Israel.
“Kon ang isa ka tawo nagpakighilawas sa isa ka babayi nga kalaslon na, kag natabo ini sa isa ka banwa,
dal-on ninyo sila nga duha sa puwertahan sang banwa kag batuhon hasta nga mapatay. Patyon ang babayi kay bisan didto siya sa banwa wala siya nagsinggit sa pagpangayo sang bulig. Patyon man ang lalaki tungod kay nagpakighilawas siya sa babayi nga kalaslon na. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan sa inyo.
“Pero kon ginlugos sang lalaki ang babayi nga kalaslon na sa may guwa sang banwa, ang lalaki lang ang patyon.
Indi ninyo pag-anha ang babayi; wala siya nakasala nga dapat silutan sang kamatayon. Ini nga kaso pareho lang sa kaso sang tawo nga nagsalakay sang iya kapareho kag ginpatay ini.
Kay sa guwa sang banwa ginlugos ang babayi. Bisan nagsinggit pa siya sa pagpangayo sang bulig, wala gihapon sing may makabati makabati sa pagbulig sa iya.
“Kon nadakpan ang isa ka lalaki nga ginlugos niya ang isa ka babayi nga indi kalaslon,
magbayad ang lalaki sang 50 ka bilog nga pilak sa amay sang babayi. Kinahanglan nga pakaslan niya ang babayi tungod kay ginkuha niya ang iya pagkababayi, kag kinahanglan nga indi gid niya siya pagbulagan samtang buhi pa siya.
Amo man ina ang inyo himuon sa donkey ukon sa panapton ukon sa bisan ano nga butang nga nadula sang inyo kapareho. Indi ninyo ini pagpabay-an.
“Kinahanglan nga indi magpakighilawas ang anak sa asawa sang iya amay, kay mahuy-an ang iya amay.
“Kon makita ninyo nga ang donkey ukon ang baka sang inyo kapareho nalup-og sa dalan, indi ninyo ini pagpabay-an. Buligi gid ang tag-iya sa pagpatindog sini.
“Ang babayi indi dapat magsuksok sang bayo nga panglalaki, ukon ang lalaki magsuksok sang bayo nga pangbabayi, kay ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang nagahimo sini.
“Kon may makita kamo nga pugad sang pispis sa higad sang dalan, sa kahoy ukon sa duta, kag ang iloy nagaluob sa iya mga buto ukon mga itlog, indi pagkuhaa ang iloy upod sa mga buto ukon mga itlog ukon mga itlog .
Puwede ninyo kuhaon ang mga buto ukon mga itlog ukon mga itlog , pero kinahanglan nga buy-an ninyo ang iloy, para mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan kag magkabuhi kamo sing malawig.
“Kon magpatindog kamo sang balay, kinahanglan nga butangan ninyo sang barandilya ang palibot sang inyo matapan matapan nga atop, para wala kamo sing salabton kon may mahulog halin sa inyo atop kag mapatay.
“Indi kamo magtanom sang iban nga binhi sa talamnan sang ubas. Kon himuon ninyo ini, mangin iya na sang templo ang bunga sang inyo gintanom kag pati ang bunga sang inyo talamnan sang ubas.
“Wala sing tawo nga ginkapon ukon gin-utdan sang kinatawo nga makaimpon sa komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon may isa sa inyo nga naguwaan sang semilya sa iya pagtulog sa gab-i, kinahanglan nga magguwa siya sa kampo kag didto anay siya magtiner.
Pagkahapon, magpaligo siya, kag pagkasalop sang adlaw puwede na siya makabalik sa kampo.
“Magpili kamo sang lugar sa guwa sang kampo nga himuon ninyo nga palamus-unan.
Kinahanglan nga ang kada isa sa inyo may pangkutkot sa inyo mga gamit, para kon magpamus-on kamo, magkutkot kamo kag tabunan ini.
Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nagalibot-libot sa inyo kampo sa pagluwas sa inyo kag sa pagtugyan sang inyo mga kaaway sa inyo. Gani kinahanglan nga matinlo ang inyo kampo para wala siya sing may makita nga indi maayo, kag para indi niya kamo pagbayaan.
“Kon ang isa ka ulipon nagpalagyo sa iya amo kag magdangop sa inyo, indi siya pagpilita sa pagbalik sa iya amo.
Paestara siya sa inyo lugar sa bisan diin nga banwa nga iya nagustuhan. Indi ninyo siya pagpigusa.
“Dapat wala sing Israelinhon, lalaki man ukon babayi, nga magbaligya sang iya lawas sa templo bilang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios.
Indi gid ninyo pagdal-a sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang kuwarta nga inyo nabaton sa sina nga paagi para ibayad sa inyo promisa sa iya, kay makangilil-ad gid ini sa iya.
“Kon magpahulam kamo sa inyo kapareho nga Israelinhon, indi ninyo ini pagpasakaan, kuwarta man ini ukon pagkaon ukon bisan ano nga butang nga puwede pasakaan.
“Ang tawo nga anak sa guwa indi makaimpon sa komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo pati ang iya mga kaliwat hasta sa ikanapulo nga henerasyon.
Puwede ninyo mapahulam ang mga pangayaw nga may saka, pero indi ang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon. Himuon ninyo ini para pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo didto sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan.
“Kon magpanaad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, indi kamo magpatumbaya sa pagtuman sini, kay sigurado gid nga sukton kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag makasala kamo sa indi ninyo pagtuman sini.
Indi ina sala kon indi kamo magpanaad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero ang bisan ano nga inyo ginpanaad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kinahanglan nga tumanon gid ninyo.
“Kon magkadto kamo sa talamnan sang ubas sang inyo kapareho nga Israelinhon, puwede kamo makapagusto kaon sang ubas, pero indi kamo magpanguha kag isulod sa inyo suludlan.
Kon magkadto man kamo sa talamnan sang trigo sang inyo kapareho nga Israelinhon, puwede kamo makapamuksi
Wala sing Ammonhon ukon Moabnon ukon bisan sin-o sa ila mga kaliwat hasta sa ikanapulo nga henerasyon nga makaimpon sa komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kay wala nila kamo paghatagi sang pagkaon ukon tubig sang nagpanglakaton kamo halin sa Egypt, kag ginsuhulan pa nila si Balaam nga anak ni Beor nga taga-Petor sa Aram Naharaim
Pero wala pagpamatii sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios si Balaam. Sa baylo, ginhimo niya nga bendisyon ang sumpa sa inyo, kay ginahigugma kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Samtang buhi pa kamo, indi gid kamo magbulig sa mga Ammonhon ukon Moabnon sa bisan ano nga paagi.
“Indi ninyo pagpakalaina ang mga Edomnon, kay mga kadugo ninyo sila. Indi man ninyo pagpakalaina ang mga Egyptohanon, kay nag-estar kamo anay sa ila duta bilang mga pangayaw.
Ang ila mga kaliwat sa ikatatlo nga henerasyon puwede makaimpon sa katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Kon magpakig-away kamo sa inyo mga kaaway, maglikaw gid kamo sa bisan ano nga butang nga makapahigko sa inyo.
“Halimbawa, nagpangasawa ang isa ka lalaki, kag sang ulihi nadula ang iya luyag sa iya asawa kay may nadiskobrehan siya sa iya asawa nga wala niya naluyagi. Gani naghimo siya sang kasulatan sang pagbulagay kag ginhatag sa iya asawa, kag ginpahalin niya siya sa iya balay.
“Kon magpahulam kamo sang bisan ano sa inyo kapareho nga Israelinhon, indi kamo magsulod sa iya balay sa pagkuha sang bisan ano nga iya igarantiya.
Maghulat lang kamo sa guwa kag dal-on niya ang iya igarantiya sa inyo.
“Indi kamo magpamintaha sa imol nga trabahador, Israelinhon man siya ukon pangayaw nga nagaestar sa inyo banwa.
Bayari siya sang iya inadlaw nga suweldo sa indi pa magsalop ang adlaw tungod kay imol siya kag nagasalig siya sa sina nga suweldo. Kay kon indi, basi magdangop siya sa Ginoo Ginoo batok sa imo, kag isipon ini nga sala kontra sa imo.
“Ang mga ginikanan indi dapat pagpatyon tungod sa sala sang ila mga anak, ukon ang mga anak tungod sa sala sang ila mga ginikanan; ang kada isa patyon tungod sa iya kaugalingon nga sala.
“Hatagan ninyo sang hustisya ang mga ilo kag ang mga pangayaw. Indi ninyo pagkuhaa ang pangtabon nga panapton sang balo nga babayi bilang garantiya sa iya utang.
Dumdumon ninyo nga mga ulipon kamo sadto sa Egypt kag ginluwas kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Amo ina nga ginasugo ko kamo sa paghimo sini.
“Kon nagaani kamo kag may nabilin kamo nga pungpong sa uma, indi na ninyo ini pagbalikan kag kuhaon. Ibilin na lang ini sa mga pangayaw, sa mga ilo, kag sa mga balo nga babayi, para pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo.
Kon magpamana liwat ang amo nga babayi,
Kon magdugos kamo sang inyo mga olibo, indi na ninyo pagbalikan ang nabilin. Ibilin na lang sa mga pangayaw, sa mga ilo, kag sa mga balo nga babayi.
Kon magdugos kamo sang inyo mga ubas, indi na ninyo pagbalikan ang mga nabilin. Ibilin na lang ini sa mga pangayaw, sa mga ilo, kag sa mga balo nga babayi.
Dumdumon ninyo nga mga ulipon kamo sadto sa Egypt. Amo ina nga ginasugo ko kamo sa paghimo sini.”
kag bulagan naman siya sang iya ikaduha nga bana ukon mapatay ang iya ikaduha nga bana,
indi na siya puwede nga pangasaw-on liwat sang nahauna niya nga bana kay nangin mahigko na siya.
“Kon ang isa ka tawo bag-o lang makasal, kinahanglan nga indi siya pagpaintrahon sa inaway ukon hatagan sang bisan ano nga responsibilidad sa banwa sa sulod sang isa ka tuig, para makatiner siya sa iya balay kag mahatagan niya sang kalipay ang iya asawa.
“Indi pagkuhaa nga garantiya sa utang ang galingan sang nag-utang sa imo, kay ginakuhaan mo siya sang iya palangabuhian.
“Kon madakpan ang isa ka tawo nga nagkidnap sa iya kapareho nga Israelinhon kag ginhimo niya ini nga ulipon ukon ginbaligya niya, kinahanglan nga patyon ang nagkidnap. Dapat dulaon ninyo ini nga kalautan sa inyo.
“Kon parte sa delikado nga balatian sa panit
Dumduma ninyo kon ano ang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kay Miriam sang nagalakat kamo halin sa Egypt.
“Halimbawa, may ginbaisan ang duha ka tawo kag gindala nila ang ila kaso sa korte, kag gindeklarar sang mga manughukom kon sin-o sa ila ang may sala kag ang wala sing sala.
Ang panimalay sang sini nga tawo pagatawgon sa Israel nga panimalay sang tawo nga ginkuhaan sang sandalyas.
“Kon may duha ka lalaki nga nagaaway kag nagpalapit ang asawa sang isa sa pagbulig sa iya bana paagi sa pagkumos sang kinatawo sang kontra,
kinahanglan utdon ang kamot sang babayi nga wala sing luoy-luoy.
Maggamit kamo sang husto nga kilohan kag sulukban, para magakabuhi kamo sing malawig sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Kay ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang tawo nga nagapangdaya.
“Dumduma ninyo kon ano ang ginhimo sang mga Amaleknon sa inyo sang nagguwa kamo sa Egypt.
Ginsalakay nila kamo sang kapoy na gid kamo, kag ginpamatay nila ang inyo mga kaupod nga ara sa ulihi. Wala sila sing kahadlok sa Dios.
Gani laglaga gid ninyo ang tanan nga Amaleknon kon hatagan na kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang kalinong sa tanan ninyo nga mga kaaway didto sa duta nga ginahatag niya sa inyo nga inyo panag-iyahan. Indi gid ninyo pagkalimtan ini.
Kon ang may sala ginsentensyahan sang manughukom nga hanuton, pahapaon siya sa atubangan sang manughukom kag hanuton nga ang kadamuon suno sa sala nga iya nahimo.
Pero indi magsobra sa 40 ka hanot, kay kon sobra sa 40, mahuy-an siya.
“Indi pagbusali ang baka samtang nagalinas ini.
“Kon ang mag-utod nga lalaki nagaestar sa isa lang ka duta, kag napatay ang isa sa ila nga wala sing bata, ang iya asawa indi dapat magpamana sa iban luwas lang sa pamilya sang iya bana. Ang utod sang iya bana amo ang magpangasawa sa iya. Katungdanan ini sang iya bayaw sa iya.
Ang kamagulangan nila nga anak kabigon nga anak sang napatay nga utod para indi madula ang iya ngalan sa Israel.
“Pero kon indi gusto pangasaw-on sang utod sang napatay ang balo, magkadto ang balo sa mga manugdumala didto sa puwertahan sang banwa kag magsiling, ‘Indi magsugot ang akon bayaw nga hatagan niya sang kaliwat ang iya utod sa Israel. Indi niya pagtumanon ang iya katungdanan sa akon bilang bayaw.’
Dayon ipatawag siya sang mga manugdumala sang banwa kag magpakig-estorya sila sa iya. Kon magpamilit gid siya nga indi niya gusto pangasaw-on ang balo,
magpalapit ang balo sa atubangan sang mga manugdumala kag kuhaon niya ang sandalyas sang iya bayaw kag duplaan niya siya sa guya kag magsiling, ‘Amo ini ang ginahimo sa tawo nga indi magsugot nga hatagan niya sang kaliwat ang iya utod nga napatay nga napatay .’
“Kon mapanag-iyahan na ninyo ang duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios bilang palanublion ninyo, kag didto na kamo nagaestar,
Gani karon, O Ginoo Ginoo , ginadala namon ang nahauna nga parte sang patubas sang duta nga ginhatag mo sa amon.’ Pagkatapos ninyo hambal sini, Pagkatapos ninyo hambal sini, ibutang dayon ninyo ang basket sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag magluhod kamo sa iya presensya.
Dayon magkinalipay kamo tungod sa maayo nga mga butang nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo kag sa inyo pamilya. Upda man ninyo sa pagselebrar ang mga Levita kag ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo.
“Sa kada ikatatlo nga tuig, ihatag ninyo ang ikanapulo sang inyo mga patubas sa mga Levita, sa mga pangayaw, sa mga ilo kag sa mga balo nga babayi, para may bastante sila nga pagkaon.
Dayon masiling kamo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios: ‘Ginkuha ko na sa akon balay ang balaan nga parte nga amo ang ikanapulo nga amo ang ikanapulo , kag ginhatag sa mga Levita, sa mga pangayaw, sa mga ilo, kag sa mga balo nga babayi suno sa tanan mo nga ginsugo sa amon. Wala ako naglapas ukon nagkalipat sa bisan isa sang imo mga sugo.
Wala ko ginkaon ini samtang nagapangasubo ako; wala ko ini gintandog samtang ginakabig ako nga mahigko; kag wala ko ini ginhalad sa patay. O Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, gintuman ko ikaw. Ginhimo ko ang tanan nga ginsugo mo sa amon.
Talupangda kami halin sa imo balaan nga puluy-an sa langit, kag pakamaayuha ang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon kag ang maayo kag mapatubason nga duta nga ginhatag mo sa amon suno sa imo ginsumpa sa amon mga katigulangan.’
“Ginasugo kamo subong sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga tumanon ninyo ining tanan nga tanan nga sugo kag pagsulundan. Tumana gid ninyo ini sing maayo sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag.
Ginpahayag ninyo subong nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang inyo Dios kag magakabuhi kamo suno sa iya mga pamaagi, kag tumanon ninyo ang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, kag sundon ninyo siya.
Kag ginpahayag man sang Ginoo Ginoo subong nga kamo iya espesyal nga katawhan suno sa iya ginpromisa, kag dapat magtuman kamo sa tanan niya nga mga sugo.
Kag suno sa iya ginpromisa himuon niya kamo nga labaw sa tanan nga nasyon, kag pagadayawon kag padunggan kamo. Mangin katawhan kamo nga pinili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
ibutang ninyo ang nahauna nga parte sang inyo patubas sa basket. Dayon dal-a ninyo ini sa lugar nga pilion sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga sa diin padunggan siya.
Magkadto kamo sa pari nga nagaalagad sa sina nga tion kag magsiling sa iya, ‘ Paagi sa sini nga halad, Paagi sa sini nga halad, ginakilala ko subong nga adlaw nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios amo ang nagdala sa akon sa sini nga duta nga iya ginsumpa sa aton mga katigulangan nga ihatag sa aton.’
“Kuhaon dayon sang pari ang basket sa inyo kag ibutang ini sa atubangan sang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Dayon, isiling ninyo ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios: ‘Ang amon katigulangan nga si Jacob nga si Jacob isa ka Arameanhon nga wala sing permanente nga puluy-an sadto. Nagkadto siya sa Egypt kag nag-estar didto kaupod ang iya panimalay. Diutay lang sila sadto, pero sang ulihi nagdamo sila kag nangin gamhanan nga nasyon.
Pero ginpintasan kami sang mga Egyptohanon. Ginpabudlayan nila kami kag ginpilit sa pag-obra.
Nagpangayo kami sang bulig sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang amon mga katigulangan, kag ginpamatian mo kami. Nakita mo kon paano kami ginpabudlayan, ginpaobra, kag ginpaantos.
Gani ginkuha mo kami, Ginoo Ginoo , sa Egypt paagi sa imo puwerte nga gahom kag makahaladlok nga buhat. Naghimo ka sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang.
Gindala mo kami sa sini nga lugar, kag ginhatag sa amon ining maayo kag mapatubason nga duta.
Karon ginmanduan ni Moises kag sang mga manugdumala sang Israel ang katawhan: “Tumana ninyo ining ining tanan nga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Sunda ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag tumana ang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.”
Sa amo man nga adlaw ginmanduan ni Moises ang katawhan:
“Kon makatabok na gani kamo sa Jordan, amo ini ang mga tribo nga tribo nga magtindog sa Bukid sang Gerizim sa pagbendisyon sa katawhan: ang tribo ni Simeon, Levi, Juda, Isacar, Jose, kag Benjamin.
Kag amo ini ang mga tribo nga tribo nga magtindog sa Bukid sang Ebal sa pagpakamalaot sa katawhan: ang tribo ni Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, kag Naftali.
“Ang mga Levita magsinggit sing mabaskog sa tanan nga Israelinhon:
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga maghimo sang bisan ano nga mga dios-dios nga hinimo halin sa bato ukon saway kag simbahon ini bisan sa sekreto. Kay ini nga mga dios-dios nga hinimo lang sang tawo ginakaugtan sang Ginoo Ginoo .” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga wala nagatahod sa iya mga ginikanan.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga nagahalin sang muhon sang duta sang iya isigkatawo para kawaton ang duta para kawaton ang duta .” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga nagapatalang sang bulag sa dalan.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga wala nagahatag sang hustisya sa mga pangayaw, sa mga ilo kag sa mga balo nga babayi.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
Kon makatabok na kamo sa Jordan, didto sa duta nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, magtumpok kamo sang dalagko nga mga bato, kag lamhitan ninyo ini sang apog.
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga magpakighilawas sa asawa sang iya amay, kay ginapakahuy-an niya ang iya amay.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga magpakighilawas sa bisan ano nga sapat.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga magpakighilawas sa iya utod nga babayi, utod man niya sa amay ukon sa iloy.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga magpakighilawas sa iya ugangan nga babayi.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga magpatay sang iya kapareho bisan sa sekreto.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga magbaton sang suhol sa pagpatay sang inosente nga tawo.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
“Pakamalauton ang tawo nga indi magsunod ukon magtuman sining tanan nga sugo.” Masabat dayon ang tanan nga tawo, “Amen!”
Isulat ninyo sa sini nga mga bato ang tanan nga kasuguan kon makasulod na kamo sa maayo kag mapatubason nga duta
Kon makatabok na kamo sa Jordan, patinduga ninyo ini nga mga bato sa Bukid sang Ebal, suno sa ginmando ko sa inyo subong, kag lamhitan ninyo ini sang apog.
Dayon maghimo kamo didto sang halaran nga bato para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Indi ninyo pagbasbasan ang mga bato nga inyo gamiton.
Dapat wala mabasbasi ang mga bato nga himuon ninyo nga halaran. Dayon maghalad kamo sa sini nga halaran sang mga halad nga ginasunog para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Maghalad man kamo sang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, kag kauna ninyo ini didto kag magkinalipay kamo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Kag isulat ninyo sing maathag ining mga kasuguan sang Dios sa mga bato nga ginpahiran ninyo sang apog nga ginpahiran ninyo sang apog .”
Nagsiling pa gid si Moises kag ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi sa tanan nga Israelinhon, “Pamati kamo, O katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel! Subong nga adlaw nangin katawhan na kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Kon sundon gid ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag tumanon ang tanan niya nga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, himuon niya kamo nga labaw sa tanan nga nasyon diri sa kalibutan.
Dayon ang tanan nga katawhan sa kalibutan makahibalo nga ginpili kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo mismo, kag mahadlok sila sa inyo.
Pakamaayuhon gid kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa duta nga iya ginpromisa sa inyo mga katigulangan nga ihatag sa inyo. Padamuon niya ang inyo mga anak, ang inyo mga kasapatan kag ang inyo mga patubas.
Padal-an kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang ulan sa husto nga tion halin sa talaguan sang iya manggad sa langit, kag pakamaayuhon niya ang tanan ninyo nga ginahimo. Magapahulam kamo sa madamo nga nasyon, pero kamo ya indi magpanghulam.
Himuon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mga pangulo sa mga nasyon sa mga nasyon , kag indi sumulunod lang. Huo, ara kamo permi sa ibabaw kag indi sa idalom kon tumanon kag sundon lang ninyo sing maayo ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Gani indi ninyo paglapasa ang bisan ano nga ginasugo ko sa inyo subong, kag indi kamo magsunod sa iban nga mga dios kag mag-alagad sa ila.
“Pero kon indi kamo magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag indi magsunod sing maayo sa tanan niya nga mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong, maagom ninyo ining tanan nga pagpakamalaot:
Pakamalauton sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo mga banwa kag mga uma.
Pakamalauton niya ang inyo mga patubas kag mga pagkaon.
Pakamalauton niya kamo paagi sa paghatag sa inyo sang diutay nga mga kabataan, patubas kag kasapatan.
Pakamalauton niya ang tanan ninyo nga mga ginahimo.
Kon sundon ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios mangin inyo ining tanan nga pagpakamaayo:
Pasalasalahon kamo kag pagamuhon ang tanan ninyo nga ginahimo hasta nga malaglag kamo kag magkalawala sa gilayon tungod sa malain ninyo nga ginahimo paagi sa pagsikway sa iya.
Padal-an kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga balatian hasta nga magkalalaglag kamo didto sa duta nga inyo sudlon kag panag-iyahan.
Huo, Huo, paantuson kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang makamamatay nga mga balatian, hilanat, palamanog, kag sang mainit nga hangin, malawig nga malawig nga tingadlaw
Ang langit mangin daw sa daw sa saway nga indi na maghatag sang ulan nga indi na maghatag sang ulan kag ang duta magtig-a pareho sa magtig-a pareho sa salsalon.
Imbes tubig ang ihatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo bilang ulan, yab-ok ang iya ihatag. Paulanon niya sang yab-ok hasta nga magkalalaglag kamo.
“Ipapierdi kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo mga kaaway. Tingob kamo nga magsalakay sa ila, pero lapta kamo nga magpalalagyo sa ila. Kangil-aran kamo sang tanan nga ginharian sa kalibutan.
Ang inyo mga bangkay kan-on sang mga pispis kag sang mapintas nga mga sapat, kag wala sing may magtabog sa ila.
Paantuson kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga hubag nga iya ginpadala sa mga Egyptohanon, kag sang mga tumor, katol kag arikis
Pabuangon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo , bulagon kag pasalasalahon.
Magapangapkap kamo bisan adlaw pareho sa bulag. Indi kamo magmainuswagon sa bisan ano nga inyo himuon. Daog-daugon kag kawatan kamo permi, kag wala sing may magbulig sa inyo sa inyo .
“Pakamaayuhon niya ang inyo mga banwa kag ang inyo mga uma.
“Ang babayi nga inyo pangasaw-on agawon
Ihawon ang inyo baka sa inyo atubangan, pero indi kamo makakaon sini. Agawon sa inyo ang inyo donkey, kag indi na ini pag-ibalik sa inyo. Kuhaon sang inyo mga kaaway ang inyo mga karnero, kag wala sing may magbulig sa inyo sa pagbawi sini.
Samtang nagatan-aw kamo, bihagon ang inyo mga anak sang taga-iban nga nasyon, kag adlaw-adlaw kamo nga maghulat sa ila pagbalik pagbalik , pero wala kamo sing may mahimo.
Ang mga tawo nga wala ninyo makilal-i amo ang magakaon sang tanan ninyo nga ginpangabudlayan, kag permi lang kamo daog-daugon kag paantuson.
Kag kon makita ninyo ini tanan, mabuang kamo.
Patubuan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga hubag nga indi mag-ayo halin sa inyo dapadapa hasta sa ulo.
“Kamo kag ang inyo pinili nga hari ipabihag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa nasyon nga wala ninyo makilal-i ukon sang inyo mga katigulangan. Didto magasimba kamo sa iban nga mga dios nga hinimo halin sa kahoy kag bato.
Kangil-aran kamo, hikayan, kag insultuhon sang mga pumuluyo sang mga nasyon nga sa diin kamo ginbihag.
“Madamo ang inyo itanom pero gamay lang ang inyo anihon, kay kaunon ini sang mga apan.
Magatanom kamo sang ubas kag atipanon ninyo, pero indi kamo makapangharvest sang bunga sini ukon makainom sang iya duga, kay kaunon ini sang mga ulod.
Pakamaayuhon niya kamo sang madamo nga kabataan, bugana nga patubas kag madamo nga kasapatan.
Magatanom kamo sang madamo nga olibo bisan diin sa inyo lugar, pero wala kamo sing lana nga makuha halin sa sini, kay magkalapulak ang mga bunga sini.
Makapamata kamo, pero indi sila magpabilin sa inyo kay bihagon sila.
Kaunon sang mga apan
“Ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo magaamat-amat gamhanan samtang kamo ya magaamat-amat luya.
Sila ang magapautang sa inyo kag indi kamo ang magapautang sa ila. Sila ang magapangulo sa inyo kag kamo inyo mga sumulunod lang.
Matabo ining tanan nga pagpakamalaot sa inyo hasta nga magkalamatay kamo kon indi ninyo pagtumanon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag ang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga iya ginhatag sa inyo.
Ini nga mga pagpakamalaot mangin padumdom kag paandam sa inyo kag sa inyo mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
Tungod kay wala ninyo gin-alagad nga may kalipay kag kasadya ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang tion sang inyo kabuganaan,
itugyan niya kamo sa mga kaaway nga ipadala niya sa inyo kag magaalagad kamo sa ila. Gutumon kamo, uhawon, kulangon sang bayo, kag mawad-an sang bisan ano nga butang. Paantuson niya kamo nga daw sa ginatakdan kamo sang salsalon nga gota hasta nga magkalamatay kamo.
“Ipasalakay kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa isa ka nasyon nga halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan, nga ang ila lingguahe indi ninyo maintiendihan. Salakayon nila kamo pareho sa agila nga nagasulip.
Pakamaayuhon niya ang inyo mga patubas kag mga pagkaon.
Mapintas sila kag wala sing kaluoy sa mga tigulang kag mga kabataan.
Kaunon nila ang inyo mga kasapatan kag ang inyo mga patubas hasta nga magkalamatay kamo. Wala sila sing ibilin sa inyo nga uyas, duga sang ubas, lana, ukon mga kasapatan hasta nga magkalalaglag kamo.
Salakayon nila ang tanan ninyo nga banwa nga ginahatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios hasta nga magkalarumpag ang mga mataas kag mabakod nga mga pader sini nga inyo ginasaligan.
“Sa tion nga kibunon kamo sang inyo mga kaaway, kaunon ninyo ang inyo mga anak nga ginhatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios tungod sa puwerte nga kagutom tungod sa puwerte nga kagutom .
Bisan pa ang mahinhin kag maluming gid nga tawo wala na sing kaluoy sa iya utod, sa iya pinalangga nga asawa, kag sa iya nabilin nga mga anak.
Indi niya sila paghatagan sang iya ginakaon nga unod sang iya anak kay nahadlok siya nga maubusan. Amo ina ang matabo sa inyo sa tion nga kibunon na sang inyo mga kaaway ang tanan ninyo nga banwa.
Bisan pa ang mahinhin kag maluming nga babayi nga halos indi gani maglakat nga nagatiniil, mangin mapintas sa iya pinalangga nga bana kag sa iya mga anak.
Taguon niya ang iya bata nga bag-o lang gid natawo kag ang inunlan sini para kaunon niya sa sekreto, kay nahadlok siya nga basi wala na siya sing kaunon samtang ginapalibutan sang inyo mga kaaway ang inyo mga banwa.
“Kon indi ninyo pagtumanon sing maayo ining tanan nga sugo nga nasulat sa sini nga libro, kag indi pagtahuron ang halangdon kag makatilingala nga ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios,
padal-an niya kamo kag ang inyo mga kaliwat sang makahaladlok nga mga balatian nga puwerte kasakit kag wala sing kaayuhan.
Pakamaayuhon niya ang tanan ninyo nga ginahimo.
Ipaagom niya sa inyo ang makahaladlok nga mga balatian nga ginpadala niya sa Egypt, kag magapabilin ini sa inyo.
Ipaagom man sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga klase sang balatian nga wala nasulat sa sining Libro sang Kasuguan, hasta nga magkalamatay kamo.
Bisan pareho kamo kadamo sang bituon sa langit, diutay lang ang mabilin sa inyo kay wala kamo nagtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Subong nga ginkalipay sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pagpauswag kag pagpadamo sa inyo, ikalipay man niya ang paglaglag kag pagpamatay sa inyo, hasta nga magkalawala kamo sa duta nga inyo sudlon kag panag-iyahan.
“Palaptahon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga nasyon, sa punta kag punta sang kalibutan. Kag didto magasimba kamo sa iban nga mga dios nga hinimo halin sa kahoy kag bato, nga wala gani ninyo makilal-i ukon sang inyo mga katigulangan.
Wala kamo didto sing kalinong kag lugar nga mapahuwayan. Pakulbaan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag madulaan kamo sang paglaom, kag permi lang kamo masubuan.
Ang inyo kabuhi mangin ara permi sa katalagman; adlaw-gab-i permi lang kamo ginakulbaan, kag wala sing kasiguruhan ang inyo kabuhi.
Tungod sa inyo kahadlok sa mga butang nga inyo makita sa palibot, masiling kamo kon aga, ‘Kuntani gab-i na.’ Kag kon gab-i masiling kamo, ‘Kuntani aga na.’
Pabalikon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Egypt sakay sa barko, bisan nagsiling ako sa inyo nga indi na kamo dapat magbalik didto. Didto ibaligya ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa inyo mga kaaway bilang mga ulipon, pero wala sing may magbakal sa inyo.”
Ipapierdi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo ang mga kaaway nga magsalakay sa inyo. Tingob sila nga magsalakay sa inyo pero lapta sila nga magpalalagyo sa inyo.
Pakamaayuhon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang tanan ninyo nga ginahimo kag pun-on niya sang mga patubas ang inyo mga bodega. Pakamaayuhon niya kamo sa duta nga ginahatag niya sa inyo.
Suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa inyo, himuon niya kamo nga iya pinili nga katawhan, kon tumanon ninyo ang iya mga sugo kag magkabuhi kamo suno sa iya mga pamaagi.
Amo ini ang mga detalye sang pagtuman sa kasugtanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises nga ihatag sa mga Israelinhon sa Moab. Dugang ini sa kasugtanan nga iya ginhimo sa ila sa Horeb.
Nagatindog kamo tanan subong nga adlaw sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios: ang mga pangulo sang inyo mga tribo, ang mga manugdumala, ang mga opisyal, ang tanan nga lalaki sang Israel,
ang inyo mga asawa kag mga kabataan, kag ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo nga inyo manugkahoy kag manugsag-ob.
Nagatindog kamo diri sa paghimo sang kasugtanan sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Ini nga kasugtanan nga ginahimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo subong nga adlaw ginsumpaan niya,
para ipahibalo niya liwat sa inyo subong nga kamo iya katawhan kag siya inyo nga Dios suno sa iya ginpromisa sa inyo kag sa inyo mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob.
“Nahibaluan ninyo kon paano anay kita nag-estar sa Egypt kag kon paano kita nagpanglat-as sa kadutaan sang iban nga mga nasyon pakadto sa sini nga lugar.
Nakita ninyo ang ila makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios nga hinimo halin sa kahoy, bato, pilak kag bulawan.
Siguraduha ninyo nga wala sa inyo sing lalaki, babayi, panimalay, ukon tribo nga magbiya sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios kag magsimba sa mga dios sang sadto nga mga nasyon para wala sing bisan isa sa inyo nga mangin pareho sa gamot nga nagatubo nga mapait kag makahililo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nakabati sang mga paandam sang sini nga mga pagpakamalaot indi maghunahuna nga indi siya maano bisan magpadayon siya sa iya lang gusto. Ang matuod, magadala ini sang kalaglagan sa inyo tanan.
Ginpatawag ni Moises ang tanan nga Israelinhon kag ginsilingan, “Kamo mismo nakakita sang tanan nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa hari sang Egypt
Indi gid gid siya pagpatawaron sang Ginoo Ginoo . Magadabdab nga daw sa kalayo nga daw sa kalayo ang puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, kag matabo sa iya ang tanan nga pagpakamalaot nga nasulat sa sini nga libro, kag dulaon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ngalan sa kalibutan.
Painon siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel, kag paantuson siya suno sa mga pagpakamalaot sang kasugtanan nga nasulat sa sini nga Libro sang Kasuguan.
“Sa ulihi nga mga henerasyon ang inyo mga kaliwat kag ang mga pangayaw nga naghalin sa malayo nga mga lugar makakita sang resulta sang resulta sang mga kalamidad kag mga balatian nga ipadala sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo duta.
Ang inyo bilog nga duta mangin pareho sa desierto nga natabunan sang asupre kag asin. Wala gid sing may magtanom sa sini nga duta kay ang tanom indi magtubo. Mangin pareho ini sang pagkalaglag sang Sodom kag Gomora, sang Adma kag Zeboyim nga ginlaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa puwerte niya nga kaakig.
Dayon mamangkot ang tanan nga nasyon, ‘Ngaa bala ginhimo ina sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila nasyon? Ngaa bala nga puwerte gid ang iya kaakig?’
“Kag ang sabat amo ini: ‘Tungod kay ginsikway sang sini nga mga tawo ang kasugtanan nga ginhimo sa ila sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan, sang ginpaguwa niya sila sa Egypt.
Nagsimba sila kag nag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios nga wala nila nakilal-i, nga gindumili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga simbahon nila.
Gani puwerte ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila nasyon kag ginpaagom niya sa ila ang tanan nga pagpakamalaot nga nasulat sa sini nga libro.
Sa puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginpalayas niya sila sa ila nasyon kag ginpabihag sa iban nga nasyon nga sa diin nagaestar sila subong.’
“May mga butang nga sekreto nga ang Ginoo Ginoo lang nga aton Dios ang nakahibalo, pero ginpahayag niya sa aton ang iya kasuguan kag ini dapat sundon naton kag sang aton mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
Nakita ninyo atong puwerte nga mga pagtilaw, mga milagro, kag makatilingala nga mga buhat.
Pero hasta subong wala pa ginpaintiendi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo ining inyo nakita kag nabatian.
Sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig nga ginpangunahan ko kamo sa kamingawan, wala nagdaan ang inyo mga bayo kag mga sandalyas.
Wala kamo sing tinapay didto ukon bino kag iban pa nga ilimnon, pero ginhatagan kamo sang Ginoo sang inyo mga kinahanglanon pero ginhatagan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang inyo mga kinahanglanon para mahibaluan ninyo nga siya ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Pag-abot ta sa sini nga lugar, nagpakig-away sa aton si Haring Sihon sang Heshbon kag si Haring Og sang Bashan, pero gindaog naton sila.
Gin-agaw ta ang ila duta kag ginhatag ini sa mga tribo ni mga tribo ni Reuben, Gad, kag sa katunga nga tribo ni Manase bilang ila palanublion.
“Gani tumana ninyo sing maayo ang mga ginapatuman sa sini nga kasugtanan, para magmauswagon kamo sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo.
“Halimbawa, matabo sa inyo ini nga mga butang—ang mga pagpakamaayo kag ang mga pagpakamalaot nga akon ginsiling sa inyo—kag madumduman ninyo ini kon didto na kamo sa mga nasyon nga sa diin ginpabihag kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Matabo ini kon tumanon ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag sundon ang tanan niya nga mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga nasulat sa sini nga Libro sang Kasuguan. Huo, matabo ini Huo, matabo ini kon magbalik kamo sa iya sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag.
“Indi mabudlay intiendihon kag himuon ini nga mga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Wala ini sa langit nga magpamangkot kamo, ‘Sin-o bala ang mapa-langit sa pagkuha sini kag isugid sa aton para sundon naton?’
Wala man ini sa tabok sang dagat nga magpamangkot kamo, ‘Sin-o bala ang matabok sa dagat sa pagkuha sini kag isugid sa aton para sundon naton?’
Ara ina nga mga pulong sa inyo, sa inyo mismo baba kag tagipusuon, gani matuman ninyo ina.
“Pamati! Subong nga adlaw ginapapili ko kamo sini: kabuhi ukon kamatayon, kauswagan ukon kalaglagan.
Ginamanduan ko kamo subong nga higugmaon ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, magkabuhi kamo suno sa iya mga pamaagi, kag magtuman sang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan. Kon himuon ninyo ini, Kon himuon ninyo ini, makaangkon kamo sang maayo nga maayo nga kabuhi kag magdamo, kag pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios didto sa duta nga inyo pagasudlon kag panag-iyahan.
“Pero kon indi kamo magtuman kag magsunod sa iya, kag magsimba kamo kag mag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios,
subong pa lang nga daan ginapaandaman ko na kamo nga sigurado gid nga malaglag kamo. Indi kamo magkabuhi sing malawig sa duta nga inyo sudlon kag panag-iyahan didto sa tabok sang Jordan.
“Subong nga adlaw ginatawag ko bilang mga saksi ang langit kag ang duta kon diin sa sini ang inyo pilion: kabuhi ukon kamatayon, pagpakamaayo ukon pagpakamalaot. Pilia ninyo ang kabuhi para magkabuhi kamo kag ang inyo mga kabataan.
Kon sa sina nga tion magbalik kamo kag ang inyo mga anak sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag tumanon ninyo sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag ang tanan nga ginsugo ko sa inyo subong,
Higugmaa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Tumana ninyo siya kag magpabilin kamo sa iya, kay siya ang inyo kabuhi. Kon himuon ninyo ini, magakabuhi kamo sing malawig didto sa duta nga iya ginsumpa nga ihatag sa inyo mga katigulangan nga sila ni Abraham, Isaac kag Jacob.”
kaluoyan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Tipunon niya kamo halin sa tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin ginpabihag niya kamo, kag dayon ibalik niya ang inyo maayo nga kahimtangan.
Bisan didto pa niya kamo ginpalayas sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan, tipunon gihapon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios
kag pabalikon sa duta nga ginpanag-iyahan sang inyo mga katigulangan, kag panag-iyahan ninyo ini liwat liwat . Pauswagon kag padamuon pa gid niya kamo sang sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Bag-uhon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang inyo mga tagipusuon kag ang mga tagipusuon sang inyo mga kaliwat para higugmaon ninyo siya sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag, kag magkabuhi kamo sing malawig sing malawig .
Ipaagom sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ining tanan nga pagpakamalaot sa inyo mga kaaway nga nagadumot kag nagahingabot sa inyo.
Tumanon ninyo liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo kag sundon ang tanan niya nga mga sugo nga ginahatag ko sa inyo subong.
Pauswagon gid kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo. Padamuon niya ang inyo mga anak, mga kasapatan, kag ang inyo mga patubas, kay malipay liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpakamaayo sa inyo, subong nga nalipay siya sa pagpakamaayo sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Nagpadayon si Moises sa pagpakighambal sa tanan nga Israelinhon.
Dayon ginmanduan sila ni Moises, “Sa katapusan sang kada pito ka tuig nga amo ang tuig nga kanselahon na ang mga utang, sa tion sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag,
basahon ninyo ini nga mga sugo sa tanan nga Israelinhon kon magtipon sila sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa lugar nga iya pilion.
Tipuna ang mga tawo—ang mga lalaki, mga babayi, mga kabataan, kag mga pangayaw nga nagaestar sa inyo mga banwa—para makapamati sila kag makatuon nga magtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag magtuman sing maayo sa tanan nga ginapatuman sa sini nga mga sugo.
Himuon ninyo ini para ang inyo mga kabataan nga wala pa makahibalo sang sini nga mga sugo makabati sini kag makatuon sa pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios samtang nagakabuhi kamo sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan sa tabok sang Jordan.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Madali na lang ka mapatay; gani ipatawag si Josue kag magkadto kamo sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kay tudluan ko siya didto sang iya pagahimuon.” Gani nagkadto si Moises kag si Josue sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa panganod nga daw haligi didto sa may puwertahan sang Tolda.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Madali na lang ka mapatay kag mapatay kag isimpon sa imo mga katigulangan. Kon wala ka na, ini nga katawhan magasimba sa iban nga mga dios nga ginasimba sang mga tawo sa duta nga ila pagakadtuan. Isikway nila ako kag lapason nila ang kasugtanan nga ginhimo ko sa ila.
Sa sina nga adlaw mangakig gid ako sa ila kag isikway ko sila. Talikdan ko sila kag malaglag sila. Madamo nga katalagman kag kabudlayan ang magaabot sa ila, kag sa sina nga tion mamangkot sila, ‘Nag-abot bala sa aton ini nga mga katalagman tungod kay ang Dios wala nagaupod sa aton?’
Talikdan ko gid sila sa sina nga tion tungod sa tanan nga kalautan nga ila ginhimo paagi sa pagsimba sa iban nga mga dios.
“Gani isulat ini nga kanta kag itudlo sa mga Israelinhon. Ipakanta ini sa ila para mangin saksi ko ini kontra sa ila.
Siling niya, “120 na ka tuig ang akon edad kag indi na ako makasarang sa pagpangulo sa inyo. Kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon nga indi ako makatabok sa Jordan.
Dal-on ko sila sa maayo kag mapatubason nga duta
Kon mag-abot na sa ila ang madamo nga katalagman kag mga kabudlayan, ini nga kanta mangin saksi kontra sa ila, kay indi ini malipatan sang ila mga kaliwat. Nahibaluan ko kon ano ang ila ginaplano nga himuon bisan wala ko pa sila madala sa duta nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag sa ila.”
Sadto nga adlaw, ginsulat ni Moises ang kanta kag gintudlo sa mga Israelinhon.
Ginmanduan dayon sang Ginoo Ginoo si Josue nga anak ni Nun: “Magpakabakod ka kag magpakaisog, kay ikaw ang magadala sa mga Israelinhon sa duta nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag sa ila, kag magaupod ako sa imo.”
Pagkatapos nga nasulat ni Moises ang tanan nga sugo sa libro,
ginmanduan niya ang mga Levita nga amo ang nagadala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsiling siya,
“Kuhaa ninyo ining Libro sang Kasuguan kag ibutang sa tupad sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Magapabilin ini didto bilang saksi kontra sa katawhan sang Israel.
Kay nahibaluan ko kon ano kamo ka rebelde kag katig-a sing ulo. Bisan subong gani nga kaupod pa ninyo ako, nagarebelde na kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo , ano pa gid ayhan kon patay na ako!
Tipuna sa akon atubangan ang tanan nga manugdumala sang inyo tribo kag ang tanan nga opisyal para hambalan ko sila sang sini nga mga butang. Kag tawgon ko ang langit kag ang duta bilang saksi kontra sa ila.
Kay nahibaluan ko nga kon patay na ako, magahimo gid kamo sang kalautan kag isikway ninyo ang tanan nga ginasugo ko sa inyo. Sa ulihi, magaabot sa inyo ang mga katalagman kay magahimo kamo sing malain sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo kag paakigon ninyo siya paagi sa inyo himuon.”
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo mismo ang magapanguna sa inyo sa pagtabok. Laglagon niya ang mga nasyon didto, kag panag-iyahan ninyo ang ila duta. Pangunahan kamo ni Josue sa pagtabok suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon ginpabati ni Moises sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel ang ini nga kanta halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan:
Himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sini nga mga nasyon ang iya ginhimo kay Sihon kag kay Og nga mga hari sang mga Amornon, kag sa ila duta.
Itugyan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo, kag kinahanglan nga himuon ninyo sa ila ang tanan nga ginsugo ko sa inyo.
Magpakabakod kamo kag magpakaisog. Indi kamo magkahadlok sa ila kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nagaupod sa inyo; indi niya kamo pagbayaan ukon pagpabay-an.”
Dayon gintawag ni Moises si Josue kag ginsilingan sa atubangan sang tanan nga Israelinhon, “Magpakabakod ka kag magpakaisog, kay ikaw ang magapangulo sa sini nga katawhan sa pagkadto sa duta nga ginsumpa sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihatag sa ila mga katigulangan. Buligan mo sila nga maangkon nila ang duta.
Pangunahan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo kag magaupod siya sa imo; indi niya ikaw pagbayaan ukon pagpabay-an. Gani indi ka magkahadlok ukon magkaluya.”
Ginsulat ni Moises ini nga mga sugo kag ginhatag sa mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, nga amo ang nagadala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag sa tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel.
O duta, pamatii ang akon mga pulong.
pareho sa paghalong sang tawo sa iya mata.
sa pagsalo kag pagdala sa ila.
nga wala ang bulig sang iban nga dios.
kag sang lana halin sa mga olibo nga nagatubo sa mga olibo nga nagatubo sa batuhon nga duta.
kag ginpainom sang pinakamaayo nga bino halin sa ubas.
nga amo ang ila Manluluwas.
sa ila makangilil-ad nga mga dios.
kag wala pagtahura sang ila mga katigulangan.
nga ila palalipdan nga ila palalipdan nga bato nga nagtuga sa ila.
kag tungod sa iya kaakig ginsikway niya sila nga iya mga anak.
ukon talithi sa mga tanom.
kay malain sila nga henerasyon, mga anak nga indi matutom.
Paakigon ko sila paagi sa pagpakamaayo paagi sa pagpakamaayo sa buang-buang nga nasyon.
kag sa mga pundasyon sang mga bukid.
kag iguon ko sila sang akon mga pana.
kag mga man-og nga dalitan sa pagkagat sa ila.
kag mga kabataan.
hasta nga indi na sila madumduman sa kalibutan.
‘Napierdi ta sila. Indi ang Ginoo Ginoo ang naghimo sini.’ ”
nga wala sing kaalam kag pag-intiendi.
maintiendihan kuntani nila ang ila madangatan.
Dayawon ko ang pagkagamhanan sang aton Dios!
nga ila palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato.
kag bisan sila nakahibalo sini.
kaangay sang mga pinungpong sang ubas nga mapait kag makahililo ang bunga,
kag kaangay sang bino nga halin sa dalit sang man-og.
ginasupot niya lang anay ini kag nagahulat sang husto nga tion sa pagsilot sa ila.
Indi na ini magdugay.”
ulipon man ukon indi ulipon.
“Diin na karon ang ila mga dios, ang bato nga ila palalipdan?
kag himua ninyo sila nga inyo proteksyon!
kag wala sing may makaluwas sa akon mga kamot.
matarong siya kag husto ang iya mga ginahimo.
‘Subong nga buhi ako hasta san-o,
kag pabayaron ang mga nagasikway sa akon.
kag ang ila mga pangulo.’ ”
kag tinluan niya ang iya duta kag ang iya katawhan.
Ginhambal ni Moises kaupod ni Josue
Pagkatapos hambal ni Moises sini,
nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, “Itanom gid ninyo sa inyo mga tagipusuon ang tanan nga ginhambal ko sa inyo subong. Itudlo man ninyo ini sa inyo mga anak para matuman nila sing maayo ang tanan nga ginasiling sa sini nga mga sugo.
Ini nga mga sugo indi ordinaryo lang nga mga pulong; ini magahatag sa inyo sang kabuhi. Kon tumanon ninyo ini magakabuhi kamo sing malawig sa duta nga inyo panag-iyahan sa tabok sang Jordan.”
Sa sina mismo nga adlaw nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises,
“Magkadto ka sa Moab, sa kabukiran sang Abarim kag magsaka ka sa Bukid sang Nebo nga nagaatubang sa Jerico. Tan-awa didto ang Canaan, ang duta nga ginahatag ko sa mga Israelinhon nga ila panag-iyahan.
Mga makasasala kag balingag nga henerasyon!
Kag dira sa sina nga bukid mapatay ka, kag isimpon ka sa imo mga paryente nga nagkalamatay na nga nagkalamatay na , subong nga si Aaron nga imo utod napatay sa Bukid sang Hor kag ginsimpon man sa iya mga paryente.
Kay duha kamo nadulaan sang pagsalig sa akon sa atubangan sang mga Israelinhon sang didto kamo sa tuburan sang Meriba Kadesh,
Gani makita mo lang sa malayo ang duta nga ginahatag ko sa mga Israelinhon, pero indi ka makasulod didto.”
Indi bala nga siya ang inyo Amay nga nagtuga sa inyo?
kay ipaathag nila ini sa inyo.
suno sa kadamuon sang mga anghel sang Dios.
sila nga mga kaliwat ni sila nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob amo ang iya palanublion.
Amo ini ang bendisyon nga ginhambal ni Moises nga alagad sang Dios sa mga Israelinhon sa wala pa siya mapatay.
kag mga halad nga ginasunog sa imo halaran.
para indi na makabangon pa.”
kag ginaprotektaran sa bilog nga adlaw.”
kag sang tubig halin sa idalom sang duta.
sang maayo nga mga bunga sa tion sang tigbulunga sini.
magapatubas sing maayo kag bugana nga mga bunga.
kay labaw siya sa iya mga utod.
Amo ini ang akon pagpakamaayo sa madamo nga katawhan sang Efraim kag Manase.”
kay magauswag sila kay magauswag sila sa ila lugar.
nga nakuha nila sa dagat kag sa baybayon.”
kag ang iya tuo nga kamot nagabitbit sang nagadabadaba nga kalayo.
nga handa sa paggus-ab sang butkon ukon sang ulo sang iya mga kaaway sang iya mga kaaway .
kag ang iya mga pagsulundan para sa Israel.”
halin sa Bashan.”
Kabay pa nga maangkon nila ang duta sa west
kag mangin bugana ang ila lana.
kag kabay pa nga magpabilin ang ila pagkagamhanan samtang buhi sila.
Sa iya gahom nagaagi siya sa kalangitan.
kag magsugo siya sa inyo sa paglaglag sa ila.
sang tubig sa duta.
kag tapakon ninyo sila sa likod.”
kag ginatuman ang iya mando.
bilang palanublion naton nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
sang magtipon ang ila mga pangulo kag ang ila mga tribo.”
“Kabay pa nga indi madula ang mga kaliwat ni Reuben bisan diutay lang sila.”
Protektari sila kag buligi kontra sa ila mga kaaway.”
kag ginsabdong sa tuburan sang Meriba.
kag gintipigan nila ang imo kasugtanan.
Halin sa kapatagan sang Moab, nagsaka si Moises sa Bukid sang Nebo, sa may putokputokan sang Pisga nga nagaatubang sa Jerico. Didto ginpakita sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo ang bilog nga duta—halin sa Gilead pakadto sa Dan,
Halin sadto wala gid sing propeta sa Israel nga pareho kay Moises, nga nakilal-an gid sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises sa paghimo sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang sa Egypt kontra sa ila hari
Wala sing may nakahimo sang mga gamhanan kag makatilingala nga mga butang pareho sang ginhimo ni Moises sa atubangan sang tanan nga Israelinhon.
ang bilog nga duta sang Naftali, ang duta sang Efraim kag sang Manase, ang bilog nga duta sang Juda hasta sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo,
ang Negev, kag ang bilog nga duta halin sa Patag sang Jerico (ang banwa sang mga palma) hasta sa Zoar.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, “Amo ina ang duta nga akon ginpromisa kay Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob, kag nagsiling ako sa ila nga ihatag ko ina sa ila mga kaliwat. Ginpakita ko ina sa imo, pero indi ka makakadto dira.”
Gani napatay si Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Moab, suno gid sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginlubong siya sa Moab, sa pulopatag nga nagaatubang sa Bet Peor, pero sa karon wala sing may nakahibalo kon sa diin gid siya ginlubong.
Nagaedad si Moises sing 120 ka tuig sang napatay siya, pero makusog pa siya gihapon, kag maayo pa ang iya panan-aw.
Nagpangasubo ang mga Israelinhon kay Moises didto sa kapatagan sang Moab sa sulod sang 30 ka adlaw.
Karon, si Josue nga anak ni Nun ginhatagan sang Espiritu sang kaalam kay ginpili siya ni Moises nga magbulos sa iya paagi sa pagtungtong sang iya kamot sa iya. Gani nagtuman sa iya ang mga Israelinhon, kag ginhimo nila ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
Sang patay na si Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa kabulig ni Moises nga si Josue nga anak ni Nun,
Gani ginmanduan ni Josue ang mga pangulo sang Israel,
“Libuta ninyo ang kampo kag silingon ang mga tawo nga maghanda sila sang ila mga pagkaon kay sa ikatlo nga adlaw halin karon,
Dayon nagsiling si Josue sa mga tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase,
“Dumduma ninyo ang ginsiling sa inyo ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsiling siya nga hatagan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang kapahuwayan kag sang sini nga duta kag sang sini nga duta . Kag amo na ini ang duta nga ginhatag niya sa inyo:
ang sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Magpabilin diri ang inyo mga asawa, kabataan kag mga kasapatan. Pero ang inyo mga soldado dapat magpanguna sa pagtabok sa Jordan sa Jordan sa pagbulig sa inyo mga kauturan,
hasta nga mabaton nila ang kapahuwayan halin sa Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang nabaton ninyo, kag masakop nila ang duta nga ginahatag sa ila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios. Dayon puwede na kamo magbalik diri sa east sang Jordan, sa pagpanag-iya sang sini nga duta nga ginhatag sa inyo ni Moises nga alagad sang Dios.”
Nagsabat sila kay Josue, “Himuon namon ang tanan nga imo ginsiling, kag makadto kami bisan diin mo kami ipadala.
Masunod kami sa imo pareho sa amon pagsunod kay Moises, basta maupod sa imo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios pareho sang iya pag-upod kay Moises.
Pagapatyon ang bisan sin-o nga magkontra sa imo awtoridad kag sa imo ginamando. Magpakabakod kag magpakaisog ka lang!”
“Patay na si Moises nga akon alagad. Gani karon magpreparar kamo, ikaw kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon, sa pagtabok sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan pakadto sa duta nga akon ihatag sa inyo.
Suno sa ginpromisa ko kay Moises, ihatag ko sa inyo ang tanan nga duta nga inyo maabot.
Amo ini ang inyo mangin teritoryo: halin sa desierto sa south sa south hasta sa kabukiran sang kabukiran sang Lebanon sa north sa north , kag halin sa dako nga Suba sang Euphrates sa east sa east , hasta sa dagat sang Mediteraneo sa west, kag ang kadutaan sang mga Hithanon.
“Wala sing may makapierdi sa imo samtang nagakabuhi ka pa. Magaupod ako sa imo pareho sang akon pag-upod kay Moises. Indi ko ikaw pagbayaan ukon pagpabay-an.
Magpakabakod ka kag magpakaisog, kay ikaw ang magapangulo sa sining katawhan sa pagpanag-iya sang duta nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag sa ila mga katigulangan.
Basta magpakabakod ka lang kag magpakaisog gid. Sundon mo gid sing maayo ang tanan nga kasuguan nga ginhatag sa imo ni Moises nga akon alagad. Indi mo gid ini pag-isikway, para magmadinalag-on ka sa tanan mo nga ginahimo.
Indi gid pagkalimti nga basahon ang Libro sang Kasuguan. Pamalandungan mo ina adlaw-gab-i, para mahibaluan mo kon paano mo matuman ang tanan nga nasulat dira. Sa sini nga paagi mangin mainuswagon kag madinalag-on ka.
Dumdumon mo ining akon bilin sa imo: ‘Magpakabakod ka kag magpakaisog. Indi ka magkahadlok ukon magkaluya, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, magaupod sa imo bisan diin ka makadto.’ ”
Karon, sekreto nga nagpadala si Josue sang duha ka tawo halin sa ila kampo sa ila kampo sa Shitim sa pag-espiya sa duta sang Canaan, labi na gid sa banwa sang Jerico. Sang nakaabot ang duha ka espiya sa Jerico, didto sila nagdayon sa balay ni Rahab, isa ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.
Nakabati kami kon paano ginpamala sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Mapula nga Dagat para sa inyo sang pagguwa ninyo sa Egypt. Nakabati man kami kon paano ninyo ginlaglag sing bug-os
Hinadlukan kami sang nabatian namon ini kag nadulaan sang kaisog ang kada isa sa amon tungod sa inyo. Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo ang Dios sa langit kag sa duta.
Gani karon, isumpa ninyo sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga pakitaan ninyo sang kaayo ang akon panimalay, subong nga ginpakitaan ko man kamo sang kaayo. Hatagi ninyo ako sang garantiya
nga indi ninyo ako pagpatyon kag ang akon amay, iloy, mga utod kag ang tanan nila nga panimalay.”
Nagsiling ang duha ka espiya kay Rahab, “Igarantiya namon ang amon kabuhi para sa inyo! Kon indi mo lang pag-ipanugid ang amon pagpang-espiya diri, pakitaan ka gid namon sang kaayo. Tumanon gid namon ini kon ihatag na sang Ginoo Ginoo ining duta sa amon.”
Ining si Rahab nagaestar sa balay nga ara sa pader sang banwa, gani ginbuligan niya ang duha ka espiya nga makapanaog sa bintana paagi sa kalat.
Nagsiling si Rahab sa ila, “Kadto kamo sa kabukiran para indi kamo makita sang mga nagalagas sa inyo. Panago kamo didto sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw hasta makabalik sila. Pagkatapos makapadayon na kamo sa inyo pagpuli.”
Nagsiling ang duha ka espiya kay Rahab, “Tumanon namon ang ginpasumpa mo sa amon,
pero kinahanglan nga himuon mo man ini: Kon salakayon namon ang inyo duta, ihigot ining pula nga kalat sa bintana nga imo ginpapanaugan sa amon. Tipunon mo sa imo balay ang imo amay, iloy, mga utod kag ang tanan nila nga panimalay.
Kon may isa nga magguwa kag magkadto sa dalan, wala na kami sing salabton kon mapatay siya. Pero may salabton kami kon may mapatay sa sulod sang imo balay.
Karon, nabalitaan sang hari sang Jerico nga may nag-abot sadto nga gab-i nga mga Israelinhon sa pag-espiya sa ila.
Pero kon ipanugid mo ang amon pagpang-espiya, indi namon pagtumanon ang imo ginpasumpa sa amon.”
Nagsabat si Rahab, “Huo, sugot ako.” Dayon ginpalakat sila ni Rahab, kag ginhigot dayon ni Rahab ang pula nga kalat sa bintana.
Sang nakahalin na ang duha ka espiya, nagkadto sila sa kabukiran. Didto sila nagpanago sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw samtang ginapangita sila sang mga tinawo sang hari sa mga alagyan. Wala sila nakita, gani nagpuli na lang ang mga tinawo sang hari sang hari .
Nagdulhog ang duha ka espiya kag nagtabok sa suba kag nagbalik kay Josue. Ginsugid nila kay Josue ang tanan nga natabo.
Nagsiling sila, “Matuod gid nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang bilog nga duta sa aton. Nahadlok didto ang tanan nga tawo sa aton.”
Gani nagpasugo ang hari sa pagsiling kay Rahab, “Paguwaa ang mga tawo nga nagadayon sa imo balay, kay ari sila sa pag-espiya sa aton lugar.”
Naglakat ang mga tinawo sang hari sang hari sa paglagas sa duha ka espiya. Pagkaguwa nila sa banwa, sa banwa, ginsiradhan dayon ang puwertahan sang banwa sang banwa . Sa ila nga paglagas nakalambot sila hasta sa talabukan sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Sa wala pa makatulog ang duha ka espiya, nagsaka si Rahab sa atop kag
nagsiling sa ila, “Nakahibalo ako nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo ini nga duta kag puwerte gid ang kahadlok sang mga tawo diri sa inyo.
Karon, aga pa gid nagbangon si Josue kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon. Naghalin sila sa Shitim kag nagkadto sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Nagkampo anay sila didto sa wala pa sila magtabok.
Karon mahibaluan ninyo nga nagaupod sa inyo ang buhi nga Dios, kay ipatabog gid niya sa inyo ang mga Canaanhon, Hithanon, Hivhanon, Periznon, Girgashnon, Amornon kag mga Jebusnon.
Siguraduhon ninyo nga ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo nga nagagahom sa bilog nga kalibutan magauna sa inyo samtang nagatabok kamo sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Gani karon, magpili kamo sang dose ka tawo, isa sa kada tribo sang Israel.
Kon mag-ubog na gani ang mga pari nga nagadala sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagagahom sa bilog nga kalibutan, mauntat ang pag-ilig sang Suba sang Jordan. Ang tubig sini halin sa ibabaw magapundo sa isa ka lugar.”
nag-untat dayon sa pag-ilig ang tubig. Nagpundo ang tubig sa isa ka lugar nga ginatawag nga Adam—isa ka banwa malapit sa Zaretan. Wala gid sing tubig nga nag-ilig pakadto sa Patay nga Dagat,
Nagtindog sa tunga sang nagmala nga suba ang mga pari nga nagadala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo samtang nagatabok ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel. Wala sila maghalin didto hasta nakatabok ang tanan.
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw, naglibot sa kampo ang mga pangulo
kag nagsiling sa mga tawo, “Kon makita ninyo nga ginadala sang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, magsunod kamo sa ila,
para mahibaluan ninyo kon diin kamo maagi, kay wala pa gid kamo makaagi diri halin sang una. Pero indi lang kamo magpalapit sa Kahon sang Kasugtanan; mag-antad kamo sing mga isa ka kilometro.”
Dayon ginsilingan ni Josue ang mga tawo, “Magpakatinlo kamo sang inyo kaugalingon, kay buwas mahimo ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo sang makatilingala nga mga butang.”
Ginsilingan man ni Josue ang mga pari, “Dal-a na ninyo ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan kag mag-una kamo sa mga tawo.” Gintuman nila ang ginsiling ni Josue.
Karon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Paagi sa himuon ko subong, padunggan ka sang imo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon, kag mahibaluan nila nga nagaupod ako sa imo pareho sang akon pag-upod kay Moises.
Silinga ang mga pari nga nagadala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan nga kon mag-abot na gani sila sa Suba sang Jordan, magpundo sila sa tubig.”
Gani gintawag ni Josue ang mga tawo, “Dali kamo, kay sugiran ko kamo kon ano ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Sang nakatabok na ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue,
Nagpabilin nga nagatindog sa tunga sang suba ang mga pari hasta nga natuman sang mga tawo ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, nga suno man sa ginsugo ni Moises kay Josue.
Sang nakatabok na sila tanan, gintabok man sang mga pari sang mga pari ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag nag-una liwat liwat ang mga pari sa mga tawo.
Nakatabok man kag nag-una sa mga tawo ang mga lalaki nga armado halin sa tribo ni Reuben, Gad, kag katunga sang tribo ni Manase, suno sa ginsugo ni Moises sa ila.
Ining 40,000 ka armado nga mga lalaki nag-agi sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo
Sa sina nga adlaw, ginpadunggan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Josue sa atubangan sang mga Israelinhon. Kag gintahod si Josue sang mga tawo sa bilog niya nga kabuhi pareho sang ginhimo sang mga tawo kay Moises.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue,
Gani naghalin ang mga pari sa suba nga dala ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Paglapak pa lang nila sa higad, nag-ilig liwat ang suba kag nag-awas ang tubig pareho sadto.
Ang pagtabok sang mga Israelinhon sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan natabo sang ikanapulo nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan. Dayon nagkampo ang mga Israelinhon sa Gilgal, sa east sang Jerico.
“Magpili ka sang dose ka tawo, isa sa kada tribo,
Didto ginplastar ni Josue ang dose ka bato nga ginpakuha niya sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Nagsiling si Josue sa mga Israelinhon, “Sa ulihi, kon magpamangkot sa inyo ang inyo mga kabataan kon ano ang buot silingon sini nga mga bato,
sugiran ninyo sila nga naglakat ang mga Israelinhon sa mamala nga duta sang magtabok sila sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Sugiran ninyo sila nga ginpamala sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan hasta nga nakatabok kamo pareho sang ginhimo niya sa Mapula nga Dagat hasta nga nakatabok kami.
Ginhimo niya ini para kilalahon sang tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan nga gamhanan gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , kag para magtahod kamo permi sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
kag sugua sila nga magkuha ang kada isa sa ila sang isa ka bato sa tunga sang suba, didto mismo sa ginatindugan sang mga pari. Dayon dal-on nila ini sa lugar nga inyo tineran karon nga gab-i.”
Gani gintawag ni Josue ang dose ka tawo nga iya ginpili halin sa kada tribo sang Israel, kag ginsilingan,
“Kadto kamo sa tunga sang suba, sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Ang kada isa sa inyo magkuha kag magpas-an sang isa ka bato para sa tagsa ka tribo sang Israel
kag tumpukon dayon ninyo kag tumpukon dayon ninyo para mangin isa ka monumento bilang handumanan sa ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sa ulihi, kon magpamangkot sa inyo ang inyo mga kabataan kon ano ang buot silingon sang sini nga mga bato,
sugiran ninyo sila nga nag-untat sa pag-ilig ang Suba sang Jordan sang gintabok ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ini nga mga bato isa ka handumanan para sa katawhan sang Israel hasta san-o.”
Gintuman sang dose ka Israelinhon ang ginsugo sa ila ni Josue. Suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, nagkuha sila sang dose ka bato sa tunga sang suba, isa ka bato para sa kada tribo sang Israel. Gindala nila ang mga bato sa ila gintineran kag ginbutang didto.
Nagbutang man si Josue sang dose ka bato sa tunga sang suba, sa lugar nga gintindugan mismo sang mga pari nga nagdala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan. Hasta subong didto pa ato nga mga bato.
Nabalitaan sang tanan nga hari nga Amornon sa west sang Jordan kag sang tanan nga hari nga Canaanhon sa baybayon sang Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo kon paano nga ginpamala sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan sang magtabok ang mga Israelinhon. Gani hinadlukan sila kag nadulaan sang kaisog sa pagpakig-away sa mga Israelinhon.
Samtang nagakampo pa ang mga Israelinhon sa Gilgal, sa kapatagan sang Jerico, ginsaulog nila ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Ginhimo nila ini sang gab-i sang ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan.
Pagkaaga, nagkaon sila sang mga patubas sang sadto nga duta: sinanlag nga uyas nga uyas kag tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok.
Halin sadto nag-untat ang paghulog sang manna, kag wala na sing manna ang mga Israelinhon. Ang ila pagkaon halin sadto nga tuig amo na ang mga patubas sang duta sang Canaan.
Samtang didto si Josue malapit sa Jerico, hinali lang nga may nakita siya nga tawo nga nagatindog sa iya atubangan nga nagauyat sang espada. Ginpamangkot siya ni Josue, “Soldado ka bala namon ukon kaaway?”
Nagsabat ang tawo, “Indi ninyo ako soldado ukon kaaway. Nagkadto ako diri bilang kumander sang mga soldado sang Ginoo Ginoo .” Naghapa si Josue sa pagtahod sa iya kag nagpamangkot, “Sir, ano ang gusto mo nga ipahimo sa akon nga imo alagad?”
Nagsabat ang kumander sang mga soldado sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ubaha ang imo sandalyas, kay balaan nga lugar ang imo ginatindugan. Kag gintuman ni Josue ang ginsugo sa iya.”
Sadto nga tion, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Maghimo ka sang mga sundang halin sa matig-a gid nga bato,
Gani naghimo si Josue sang mga sundang, kag ginpangtuli ang mga Israelinhon didto sa Bukid sang Gintulian.
Ang ila mga kabataan nga lalaki nga nagbulos sa ila ang gintuli ni Josue, tungod kay ini sila wala matuli sang panahon nga nagpanglakaton sila.
Matapos sila napangtuli, nagpabilin sila sa ila kampo hasta nga nagpali ang ila mga pilas.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Ginkuha ko sa inyo subong ang kahuluy-an sang inyo pagkaulipon sa inyo pagkaulipon sa Egypt.” Gani ang lugar nga ato ginatawag nga Gilgal
Ginsiradhan gid sing maayo ang Jerico sang mga nagaestar didto tungod sang mga Israelinhon. Wala sing may makasulod ukon makaguwa nga mga tawo sa banwa.
Pero ginsilingan ni Josue ang mga tawo nga indi magsinggit ukon maggahod kon indi pa siya magmando nga magsinggit.
Suno sa ginsugo ni Josue, ginlibot nila sa banwa sing makaisa ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pagkatapos nagbalik sila sa ila kampo kag didto nagtulog pagkagab-i.
Pagkaaga, aga pa gid nga nagbangon si Josue. Gindala liwat sang mga pari ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
kag ang pito sa ila nagauna gihapon sa Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagapatunog sang ila mga budyong. Kag amo man gihapon ang ginhimo sang mga soldado—ang iban sa ila sa una sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang iban sa likod, samtang padayon nga ginapatunog ang mga budyong.
Sa sining ikaduha nga adlaw, ginlibot nila liwat sing makaisa ang banwa, kag pagkatapos, nagbalik sila sa ila kampo. Amo ato ang ila ginhimo sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw.
Sang ikapito nga adlaw, nagbangon sila sang kaagahon kag naglibot sa banwa sing pito ka beses, sa amo man gihapon nga paagi. Amo lang ato nga adlaw nga naglibot sila sa banwa sing pito ka beses.
Sa ikapito na nila nga paglibot, ginpatunog sang mga pari ang ila mga budyong kag ginsugo ni Josue ang mga tawo nga magsinggit. Kag nagsiling si Josue, “Ginahatag na sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton ini nga banwa!
Ang bilog nga banwa kag ang tanan nga ara dira laglagon sing bug-os bilang laglagon sing bug-os bilang halad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Si Rahab lang nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas kag ang bilog niya nga panimalay ang pagaluwason tungod kay gintago niya ang aton mga espiya.
Indi gid kamo magkuha sang bisan ano nga butang nga ginhalad na sing bug-os sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kon magkuha kamo sang bisan ano, malaglag gid kamo, kag kamo ang mangin kabangdanan kon may kalaglagan nga mag-abot sa Israel.
Ang tanan nga butang nga hinimo halin sa pilak, bulawan, saway, ukon salsalon iseparar para sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag dapat ibutang ini sa talaguan sang manggad sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Ipasakop ko sa inyo ang Jerico pati ang iya hari kag mga soldado.
Ginpatunog sang mga pari ang ila mga budyong, kag nagsinggit sing tudo ang mga Israelinhon sang nabatian nila ini. Nawasak gid ang mga pader sang banwa kag nagsalakay sila. Nakasulod sila nga wala sing sablag, kag gin-agaw nila ang banwa.
Ginhalad nila sing bug-os sa Ginoo Ginoo ang banwa paagi sa pagpamatay sang mga lalaki kag babayi, tigulang kag bata, kag pati mga baka, karnero, kanding kag mga donkey.
Ginsugo ni Josue ang duha ka tawo nga nagpang-espiya sa duta sang Jerico sang Jerico , “Kadtui ninyo ang balay sang babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, kag paguwaa ninyo siya kag ang bilog niya nga panimalay suno sa inyo ginpromisa sa iya.”
Gani naglakat sila nga duha kag gindala nila paguwa si Rahab, kaupod ang iya amay, iloy, mga utod kag ang tanan nga sakop sang iya panimalay. Ginpaguwa nila sila tanan kag ginpatiner sa guwa sang kampo sang Israel.
Ginsunog nila ang bilog nga banwa kag ang tanan nga ara dira luwas lang sa mga butang nga hinimo halin sa pilak, bulawan, saway, kag salsalon. Ginpanguha nila ini para ibutang sa talaguan sang manggad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero ginluwas ni Josue si Rahab kag ang iya panimalay tungod kay gintago niya ang mga lalaki nga ginsugo ni Josue nga magpang-espiya sa Jerico. Hasta subong ang iya mga kaliwat nagaestar sa Israel.
Sadto nga tion, ginpaandaman ni Josue ang mga Israelinhon: “Pakamalauton sang Ginoo Ginoo ang bisan sin-o nga magtinguha sa pagpatindog liwat sang sini nga banwa sang Jerico. Ang magpatukod sang pundasyon sini mapatyan sang kamagulangan nga anak. Ang magpaobra sang mga puwertahan sini mapatyan sang kamanghuran nga anak.”
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nag-upod gid kay Josue, kag ang iya kabantog naglapnag sa bilog nga duta.
Ikaw kag ang imo mga soldado maglibot sa banwa sing makaisa kada adlaw, sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw.
Paunahon mo sa Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan ang pito ka pari nga ang kada isa sa ila may dala nga budyong. Sa ikapito nga adlaw, maglibot kamo sa banwa sing makapito ka beses, upod sa mga pari nga nagapatunog sang ila mga budyong.
Kon mabatian na gani ninyo ang malawig nga tunog sang ila budyong, magsinggit kamo tanan sing tudo gid. Dayon mawasak ang pader sang banwa kag makasulod kamo tanan nga wala sing sablag.”
Gani gintawag ni Josue nga anak ni Nun ang mga pari kag ginsilingan, “Dal-a ninyo ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan. Mag-una ang pito sa inyo nga ang kada isa may dala nga budyong.”
Kag ginsilingan man niya ang mga tawo, “Maglakat na kamo. Libuti ninyo ang banwa. Ang iban nga mga soldado mag-una sa pito ka pari sa pito ka pari sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Suno sa ginsiling ni Josue, nag-una ang pito ka pari sa Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginapatunog nila ang ila mga budyong.
Ang iban nga mga soldado nagauna sa sini nga mga pari, kag ang iban pa gid nagasunod sa Kahon. Wala gid sing untat ang pagtunog sang mga budyong.
Pero ginlapas gid sang mga Israelinhon ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi magkuha sang bisan ano nga ginhalad na sing bug-os sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagkuha si Acan sang mga butang nga indi dapat kuhaon, gani puwerte gid ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila. Si Acan nga ini anak ni Carmi. Si Carmi anak ni Zabdi. Si Zabdi anak ni Zera. Ini sila sakop sang tribo ni Juda.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Magtindog ka! Ngaa nga nagahapa ka?
Nakasala ang Israel; ginlapas nila ang akon kasugtanan. Nagkuha sila sang mga butang nga ginhalad na sing bug-os sa akon. Ginkawat nila ini, nagbutig sila parte sini, kag ginsimpon nila ini sa ila mga pagkabutang.
Amo ini ang kabangdanan kon ngaa indi sila makabato sa ila mga kaaway. Nagpalagyo sila sa ila mga kaaway, kay sila mismo laglagon man bilang halad sing bug-os sa akon. Indi na ako mag-upod sa inyo kon indi ninyo paglaglagon ang mga butang nga ginhalad na sing bug-os sa akon.
“Magtindog ka kag silinga ang mga tawo nga magpakatinlo sila para sa buwas tungod kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Dios sang Israel, nagasiling: ‘Kamo nga mga Israelinhon, may gintago kamo nga mga butang nga ginhalad na sing bug-os sa akon. Indi kamo makabato sa inyo mga kaaway mintras indi makuha ini nga mga butang sa inyo.
Gani buwas sa aga, magpalapit kamo sa akon sa akon suno sa inyo tribo. Ang tribo nga itudlo ko nga nakasala magpalapit suno sa ila kaliwat. Ang kaliwat nga itudlo ko nga nakasala magpalapit suno sa ila pamilya. Kag ang pamilya nga itudlo ko nga nakasala magpalapit suno sa tagsa ka tawo.
Ang tawo nga itudlo ko nga nagtago sang mga butang nga ginhalad na sing bug-os sa akon pagasunugon kaupod sang iya pamilya kag sang tanan niya nga pagkabutang. Kay ginlapas niya ang akon kasugtanan, kag naghimo siya sang makahuluya nga butang sa Israel.’ ”
Pagkaaga, aga pa ginpapalapit ni Josue sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon suno sa ila tribo. Kag ang ginpili sa ila amo ang tribo ni Juda.
Ginpapalapit niya ang mga kaliwat ni Juda, kag ang ginpili sa ila amo ang mga kaliwat ni Zera. Ginpapalapit niya ang mga kaliwat ni Zera, kag ang ginpili sa ila amo ang pamilya ni Zabdi.
Ginpapalapit niya ang pamilya ni Zabdi, kag ang ginpili amo si Acan. (Si Acan anak ni Carmi. Si Carmi anak ni Zabdi. Kag si Zabdi anak ni Zera sang tribo ni Juda.)
Nagsiling si Josue kay Acan, “Anak, padunggi ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel; magsugid ka sing matuod sa iya atubangan. Ano ang ginhimo mo? Indi ini pagtagua sa akon.”
Halin didto sa Jerico nagsugo si Josue sang mga tawo nga magpang-espiya sa Ai, isa ka banwa sa east sang Betel, nga malapit sa Bet Aven. Gani naglakat ang mga tawo sa pagpang-espiya.
Nagsabat si Acan, “Nakasala matuod ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel. Amo ini ang akon ginhimo:
Sa mga butang nga naagaw ta, may nakita ako nga isa ka matahom nga bayo nga halin sa Babilonia, pilak nga mga duha ka kilo kag tunga, kag isa ka barita nga bulawan nga mga tunga sa kilo. Naibog gid ako sa sini nga mga butang, gani ginkuha ko. Ginlubong ko ini sa duta sa sulod sang akon tolda. Ang pilak ara sa idalom gid.”
Gani nagsugo si Josue sang mga tawo nga magdalagan sa tolda ni Acan. Kag didto nakita nila ang mga butang nga ginlubong, ang pilak ara gid man sa idalom sini.
Gindala nila ini kay Josue kag sa tanan nga Israelinhon, kag ginplastar sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon gindala ni Josue kag sang tanan nga Israelinhon si Acan sa Kapatagan sang Acor, pati ang pilak, ang bayo, ang barita nga bulawan, ang iya kabataan, ang iya mga baka, mga donkey, mga karnero, tolda, kag ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
Ginbato dayon sang mga Israelinhon si Acan hasta nga napatay. Ginbato man nila ang iya pamilya kag ginsunog ang iya mga pagkabutang.
Dayon nadula ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pagbalik nila, nagsiling sila kay Josue, “Indi kinahanglan nga magsalakay kita tanan sa Ai, kay diutay man lang ang mga pumuluyo sini. Magpadala ka lang sang 2,000 ukon 3,000 ka tawo sa pagsalakay sini.”
Gani mga 3,000 ka Israelinhon ang nagsalakay sa Ai, pero ginpaisol sila sang mga taga-Ai.
Ginlagas sila halin sa puwertahan sang banwa hasta sa Shebarim,
Tungod sa kasubo, Tungod sa kasubo, gin-gisi ni Josue kag sang mga manugdumala sang Israel ang ila mga bayo kag ginbutangan sing yab-ok ang ila mga ulo, kag naghapa sila sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo hasta maggab-i.
Nagsiling si Josue, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , ngaa ginpatabok mo pa kami sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kon ipapierdi mo man lang kami sa mga Amornon? Maayo pa nga nagpabilin na lang kami sa pihak sang Jordan.
Ginoo, ano ang masiling ko karon nga nag-isol ang mga Israelinhon sa ila mga kaaway?
Mabalitaan ini sang mga Canaanhon kag sang iban pa nga taga-diri, kag libutan nila kami kag pamatyon. Ti, ano ang himuon mo para maprotektaran ang imo dungog?”
Karon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Indi ka magkahadlok ukon magkaluya. Tipuna ang tanan mo nga soldado kag salakaya liwat liwat ang Ai, kay itugyan ko sa imo mga kamot ang hari sang Ai, ang iya katawhan, ang iya banwa kag ang iya mga duta.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, aga pa gid nga gintipon ni Josue ang iya mga tinawo. Ginpangunahan niya kag sang mga pangulo sang Israel ang mga tawo sa ila nga pagkadto sa Ai.
Nakaabot sila sa lugar nga nagaatubang sa banwa, sa north sini, kag didto nagpatindog sila sang mga tolda. May pulopatag nga nagaseparar sa ila kag sa Ai.
Nakapadala na nga daan si Josue sang 5,000 ka soldado sa pag-ambus sang banwa sa west sini, sa tunga-tunga sang Ai kag Betel.
Sadto nga gab-i nagkadto sila ni Josue sa kapatagan.
Sang makita sang hari sang Ai sila ni Josue, nagdali-dali siya guwa kag ang iya mga tinawo sa banwa aga pa, kag nagkadto sa lugar nga nagaatubang sa Kapatagan sang Jordan
Si Josue kag ang iya mga tinawo nagpakuno-kuno nga napierdi sila kag nagpulopalagyo pakadto sa kamingawan.
Gani ginlagas sila sang tanan nga kalalakihan sang Ai hasta nga nag-amat-amat sila palayo sa banwa.
Tanan nga lalaki sa Ai, pati sa Betel, naglagas sa mga Israelinhon, gani wala sing may nabilin nga manugdepensa sa banwa.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Itudlo ang imo bangkaw sa Ai kag ihatag ko ini sa inyo.” Gani gintudlo ni Josue ang iya bangkaw sa Ai.
Pagkahimo niya sini, nagguluwa dayon ang mga tinawo niya nga nagapalibot sa banwa. Ginsulod nila kag gin-agaw ang banwa kag gindali-dali sunog.
Himuon ninyo sa Ai kag sa iya hari ang ginhimo ninyo sa Jerico kag sa iya hari; pero sa sini nga tion, kuhaon ninyo ang ila mga pagkabutang kag mga kasapatan para sa inyo kaugalingon. Magpreparar kamo kag ambusa ninyo sila sa likod sang banwa.”
Sang magbalikid ang mga taga-Ai, nakita nila nga nagatub-ok ang aso halin sa banwa. Wala na sila sing may madalaganan, kay gulpi lang sila nga gin-atubang sang mga Israelinhon nga ginalagas nila sa kamingawan.
Kay sang pagkakita ni Josue kag sang iya mga tinawo nga nakasulod na sa banwa ang ila mga kaupod kag ginasunog na nila ini, nagliso sila kag ginsalakay ang mga taga-Ai.
Nagsalakay man ang mga Israelinhon nga nagsulod sa banwa, gani natung-an ang mga taga-Ai. Ginpatay sila tanan; wala sing may nakapalagyo ukon may nabilin nga buhi sa ila,
luwas lang sa ila hari. Ginbihag siya kag gindala kay Josue.
Sang maubos nila pamatay ang tanan nga taga-Ai nga naglagas sa ila sa mga uma kag kamingawan, nagbalik sila sa banwa kag ginpamatay man ang tanan nga nabilin didto.
Sadto nga adlaw, napatay ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Ai—12,000 tanan, lalaki kag babayi.
Wala mag-untat si Josue sa pag-untay sang bangkaw hasta nga nalaglag niya sing bug-os
Ginpanguha sang mga Israelinhon ang mga kasapatan kag mga pagkabutang sa banwa, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue.
Pagkatapos ginpasunog ni Josue ang bug-os nga Ai, kag wala na ini mapatindog liwat. Hasta subong wala na sing may nagaestar didto.
Ginpabitay ni Josue ang hari sa kahoy kag ginpabay-an didto hasta maghapon. Pagsalop sang adlaw, ginpakuha niya ang bangkay kag ginpahaboy sa guwa sang puwertahan sang banwa. Gintampukan nila ini sang mga bato, kag hasta subong makita pa ini nga mga bato.
Gani nagpreparar si Josue kag ang tanan niya nga mga soldado sa pagsalakay sa Ai. Nagpili si Josue sang 30,000 ka soldado nga maayo gid magpakig-away kag ginpalakat sang gab-i.
Karon, nagpahimo si Josue sang halaran sa Bukid sang Ebal para sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Ginpahimo niya ini suno sa sugo ni Moises, nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa mga Israelinhon. Ini nga sugo nasulat sa Libro sang Kasuguan ni Moises, kag amo ini ang ginasiling didto: “Maghimo ka sang halaran nga bato nga wala masapsapi ukon makortihan sang gamit nga salsalon.” Sa ibabaw sang halaran naghalad sila sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Sa atubangan sang mga Israelinhon, ginkopya ni Josue sa mga bato
Ang tanan nga Israelinhon, upod sang ila mga pangulo, mga opisyal, kag mga manughukom, pati ang mga pangayaw, nagtindog sa duha ka grupo nga nagaatubangay. Ang isa ka grupo nagatalikod sa Bukid sang Gerizim kag ang isa pa gid nagatalikod sa Bukid sang Ebal. Sa ila tunga nagatindog ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi nga nagatuwang sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Si Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo nagsugo sa ila sadto anay sa paghimo sini sa tion nga batunon nila ang bendisyon.
Ginbasa dayon ni Josue ang Libro sang Kasuguan, pati ang pagpakamaayo kag ang pagpakamalaot nga nasulat diri.
Isa-isa nga ginbasa ni Josue ang mga sugo ni Moises sa atubangan sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel, lakip na ang mga babayi, kabataan, kag mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa ila.
Amo ini ang bilin ni Josue sa ila: “Panago kamo sa likod sang banwa, pero indi lang gid kamo magpalayo. Magpreparar kamo sa pagsalakay sa bisan ano nga oras.
Ako kag ang akon mga kaupod magasalakay sa atubangan. Kon magguwa na gani sila sa pagpakig-away sa amon, mapalagyo kami, pareho sa natabo sang una.
Magahunahuna sila nga nahadlok kami pareho sadto, gani lagson nila kami hasta nga makapalayo sila sa banwa.
Dayon magguwa kamo sa inyo ginapanaguan kag agawon ang banwa. Ihatag ini sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Kon maagaw na ninyo ang banwa, sunuga ninyo ini suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Siguruhon ninyo nga matuman gid ninyo ini.”
Dayon ginpalakat sila ni Josue, kag nagpanago sila sa west sang Ai, sa tunga-tunga sang Ai kag Betel. Kag sila ni Josue ya nagpabilin sa kampo sadto nga gab-i.
Karon, nabatian sang tanan nga hari sa west sang Jordan ang pagpangdaog sang mga Israelinhon. (Ini amo ang mga hari sang mga Hithanon, Amornon, Canaanhon, Periznon, Hivhanon, kag mga Jebusnon. Nagaestar sila sa mga kabukiran, sa mga bulobukid sa west,
kag sa duha ka hari nga Amornon sa east sang Jordan. Ini nga mga hari amo sila ni Haring Sihon sang Heshbon, kag si Haring Og sang Bashan nga nagaestar sa Ashtarot.
Gani ginsugo kami sang amon mga manugdumala kag mga kasimanwa nga magpreparar sang mga balon nga pagkaon kag magkadto diri sa pagpakigkita sa inyo para silingon kamo nga handa kami sa pag-alagad sa inyo, basta maghimo lang kamo sang kasugtanan sa amon nga indi ninyo kami pag-anhon nga indi ninyo kami pag-anhon .
Tan-awa bala ang amon tinapay, mainit pa ini paghalin namon, pero subong matig-a na kag nagakapudpod.
Ining mga panit nga suludlan bag-o pa ini sang ginpuno namon sang bino, pero tan-awa bala, gision na. Ang amon mga bayo kag mga sandalyas nagdaan na tungod sa malawig gid nga pagpanglakaton.”
Naghimo si Josue sang kasugtanan sa ila nga indi niya sila pag-anhon ukon pagpatyon. Kag ginsumpaan ini sang mga pangulo sang komunidad sang Israel sang Israel .
Tatlo ka adlaw pagkatapos sang paghimo nila sang kasugtanan, nabatian sang mga Israelinhon nga malapit lang gali sa ila ang ginaestaran sang sadto nga mga tawo.
Gani naglakat ang mga Israelinhon, kag sa tapos ang tatlo ka adlaw nakaabot sila sa mga banwa nga ginaestaran sang sadto nga mga tawo. Ini nga mga banwa amo Ini nga mga banwa amo ang Gibeon, Kefira, Beerot, kag Kiriat Jearim.
Nagreklamo ang bilog nga komunidad sa ila mga pangulo,
pero nagsabat ang tanan nga pangulo, “May ginsumpaan na kita sa ila sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, gani karon indi kita makatandog sa ila.
Nagtipon sila tanan sa pagpakig-away kay Josue kag sa Israel.
Amo na lang ini ang aton himuon: Indi ta sila pagpatyon kay basi pa kon silutan kita sang Dios tungod sa aton ginsumpa sa ila.
Pabay-i ninyo sila nga mabuhi. Pero himuon ta sila nga manugkahoy kag manugsag-ob para sa bilog nga komunidad.” Kag amo ini ang natabo sa mga taga-Gibeon Kag amo ini ang natabo sa mga taga-Gibeon suno sa ginsiling sang mga pangulo parte sa ila.
Ginpatawag ni Josue ang mga taga-Gibeon kag ginsilingan, “Ngaa gintunto ninyo kami? Ngaa nagsiling kamo nga halin pa kamo sa malayo gid nga lugar, nga taga-diri man lang gali kamo malapit sa amon?
Tungod sa inyo ginhimo ginapakamalaot kamo sang Dios sang Dios : Sugod subong, magaalagad kamo bilang manugkahoy kag manugsag-ob para sa balay sang akon Dios.”
Nagsabat sila kay Josue, “Ginhimo namon ini tungod nga nahadlok kami nga basi patyon ninyo kami. Kay nabatian gid namon nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios si Moises nga iya alagad nga maghatag sa inyo sini nga mga duta kag magpamatay sang tanan nga nagaestar diri.
Karon ari kami sa idalom sang imo gahom, pagusto ka kon ano sa imo ang dapat nga himuon sa amon.”
Wala gintugutan ni Josue nga patyon sila sang mga Israelinhon.
Pero ginhimo niya sila nga mga manugkahoy kag manugsag-ob para sa komunidad kag sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo . Hasta subong ginahimo nila ini nga obra sa lugar nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga pagasimbahan sa iya nga pagasimbahan sa iya .
Pero sang mabatian sang mga taga-Gibeon ang ginhimo ni Josue sa Jerico kag sa Ai,
nagpangita sila sang paagi sa pagtunto kay Josue. Nagpadala sila kay Josue sang mga tawo nga may mga karga sa mga donkey nga daan nga mga sako kag daan nga mga panit nga suludlan sang bino nga gision kag tukapon.
Nagsuksok ini nga mga tawo sang daan nga mga bayo kag daan kag tukapon nga mga sandalyas, kag nagbalon sang matig-a kag nagakapudpod nga mga tinapay.
Dayon nagkadto sila kay Josue sa kampo sang Israel sang Israel sa Gilgal kag nagsiling sa iya kag sa mga Israelinhon, “Nagkadto kami diri halin sa malayo nga lugar sa pagpangabay sa inyo nga maghimo kamo sang kasugtanan sa amon nga indi ninyo pag-anhon ang amon katawhan nga indi ninyo pag-anhon ang amon katawhan .”
Pero nagsabat ang mga Israelinhon, “Basi taga-diri lang kamo malapit sa amon. Gani indi kami puwede nga maghimo sang kasugtanan sa inyo.”
Nagpakitluoy sila kay Josue, “Handa kami sa pag-alagad sa inyo.” Nagpamangkot si Josue sa ila, “Sin-o kamo kag diin kamo naghalin?”
Nagsabat sila, “Halin kami sa malayo gid nga lugar. Nagkadto kami diri kay nabatian namon ang parte sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Nabatian namon ang tanan nga ginhimo niya sa Egypt,
Nabalitaan ni Haring Adoni Zedek sang Jerusalem nga gin-agaw ni Josue ang Ai kag ginlaglag niya ini sing bug-os
Ginpasala-sala sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga kaaway sang maengkwentro nila ang mga Israelinhon, kag madamo ang ginpamatay sa ila didto sa Gibeon. Ang iban sa ila ginlagas kag ginpamatay sa alagyan pasaka sa Bet Horon hasta sa Azeka kag Makeda.
Sige ang lagas sa ila sang mga Israelinhon samtang nagadulhog sila halin sa Bet Horon. Kag sang nagapakadto sila sa Azeka, ginpaulanan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang dalagko nga mga yelo kag nagkalamatay sila. Mas madamo pa ang nagkalamatay sa ila sa yelo sang sa espada sang mga Israelinhon.
Sa adlaw nga ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon sa mga Amornon, nagpangamuyo si Josue sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon, samtang nagapamati ang mga Israelinhon, nagsiling siya, “Adlaw, magpundo sa ibabaw sang Gibeon! Bulan, magpundo magpundo sa ibabaw sang Kapatagan sang Ayalon.”
Ini nga hitabo nasulat sa Libro ni Jashar. Nagpundo ang adlaw sa tunga sang langit, kag wala ini nagsalop sa bilog nga adlaw.
Wala pa gid matabo halin sang una kag halin sadto nga nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo sang pangamuyo sang tawo nga pareho sina. Matuod gid nga nagapakig-away ang Ginoo Ginoo para sa Israel.
Dayon nagbalik si Josue kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa ila kampo sa Gilgal.
Nakapalagyo ang lima ka hari kag nagpanago sa kuweba sa Makeda.
Pero may nakakita nga didto sila nagapanago, kag ginsugid ini kay Josue.
Gani nagsiling si Josue, “Tabuni ninyo sang dalagko nga mga bato ang baba sang kuweba kag paguwardyahi dayon ninyo.
Pero indi lang kamo magpundo didto kundi lagsa ninyo kag salakaya ang nabilin nga mga kaaway. Bantayan ninyo sila nga indi makasulod sa ila mga banwa. Kay ipapierdi sila sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
Nahadlok gid siya kag ang iya katawhan kay nahibaluan nila nga ang Gibeon isa ka gamhanan nga banwa nga may kaugalingon man nga hari. Kag mas dako pa ini sa Ai kag ang mga soldado sini maayo magpakig-away.
Halos naubos pamatay ni Josue kag sang mga Israelinhon ang ila mga kaaway. Pero may ara gid man nga nakaluwas kag nakasulod sa ila napaderan nga mga banwa.
Dayon nagbalik sing matawhay ang tanan nga soldado kay Josue sa ila kampo sa Makeda. Halin sadto, wala na sing may nangahas nga maghambal kontra sa mga Israelinhon.
Karon, nagmando si Josue, “Abrihi ninyo ang kuweba kag dal-a diri sa akon ang lima ka hari.”
Gani ginpaguwa nila sa kuweba ang lima ka hari: ang mga hari sang Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmut, Lakish, kag Eglon.
Sang nadala na ining lima ka hari kay Josue, gintipon ni Josue ang tanan nga Israelinhon kag nagsiling siya sa mga kumander sang iya mga soldado, “Dali kamo, kag tapaki ninyo ang mga liog sining mga hari.” Gani nagpalapit sila kag gintapakan nila ang mga liog sang ato nga mga hari.
Nagsiling si Josue sa ila, “Indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magkaluya. Magpakabakod kamo kag magpakaisog. Amo ini ang himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan ninyo nga mga kaaway.”
Dayon ginpamatay ni Josue ang lima ka hari kag ginpabitay sa lima ka kahoy hasta maghapon.
Sang pagsalop na sang adlaw, ginpakuha ni Josue ang ila mga bangkay kag ginpahaboy sa kuweba nga ila ginpanaguan. Dayon gintabunan sang dalagko nga mga bato ang baba sang kuweba. Ini nga mga bato ara pa hasta subong.
Sa sadto nga adlaw, ginsakop ni Josue ang Makeda. Ginpamatay niya ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, pati ang ila hari. Ginlaglag niya ini sing bug-os, kag wala gid sing may nabilin nga buhi. Ginhimo ni Josue sa hari sang Makeda ang ginhimo man niya sa hari sang Jerico.
Halin sa Makeda, nagkadto si Josue kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Libna kag ginsalakay nila ini.
Gani nagpadala sang mensahi si Adoni Zedek sa kay Haring Hoham sang Hebron, Haring Piram sang Jarmut, Haring Jafia sang Lakish, kag Haring Debir sang Eglon.
Gintugyan man sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila ang ini nga banwa kag ang hari sini. Ginpamatay nila ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, kag wala gid sing may nabilin nga buhi. Ginhimo ni Josue sa hari sang Libna ang ginhimo niya sa hari sang Jerico.
Halin sa Libna, nagkadto si Josue kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Lakish. Ginlibutan nila ini kag ginsalakay.
Gintugyan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Lakish sa mga Israelinhon sa ikaduha nga adlaw sang pag-inaway. Pareho sang ila ginhimo sa Libna, ginpamatay nila ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Lakish.
Sang ginasalakay ang Lakish, Sang ginasalakay ang Lakish, si Haring Horam sang Gezer kag ang iya mga soldado nagbulig sa Lakish, pero ginpierdi man sila ni Josue, kag wala gid sing may nabilin sa ila nga buhi.
Halin sa Lakish, nagkadto si Josue kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Eglon. Ginlibutan man nila ini kag ginsalakay.
Sa sina mismo nga adlaw, nasakop nila ang Eglon kag ginpamatay ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini. Ginlaglag nila ini sing bug-os pareho sang ila ginhimo sa Lakish.
Halin sa Eglon, nagtaklad si Josue kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Hebron kag ginsalakay ini.
Gin-agaw nila ang banwa, kag ginpatay nila ang hari kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, pati ang mga tawo sa mga palibot nga mga baryo nga sakop sang Hebron. Wala gid sing may nabilin nga buhi. Ginlaglag nila sing bug-os ang banwa pareho sang ila ginhimo sa Eglon.
Pagkatapos sini, nagbalik si Josue kag ang mga Israelinhon kag nagsalakay sa Debir.
Gin-agaw nila ang banwa kag ginpatay ang hari kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, pati ang mga tawo sa palibot nga mga baryo nga sakop sang Debir. Ginlaglag nila ini sing bug-os, kag wala gid sing may nabilin nga buhi. Ang ginhimo nila sa Hebron kag Libna kag sa ila mga hari ginhimo man nila sa Debir kag sa iya hari.
Amo ini ang iya mensahi: Amo ini ang iya mensahi: Buligi ninyo ako sa pagsalakay sa Gibeon tungod kay nagpakig-abyan ini kay Josue kag sa mga Israelinhon.
Gani nasakop ni Josue ang bilog nga duta—ang mga kabukiran, ang Negev, ang mga bulobukid sa west,
Nalaglag ni Josue ang mga lugar halin sa Kadesh Barnea hasta sa Gaza, kag halin sa bilog nga duta sang Goshen hasta sa Gibeon.
Nasakop ni Josue ini tanan nga duta kag ang ila mga hari sa isa lang ka pagsalakay, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nagbulig sa ila sa pagpakig-away.
Pagkatapos nagbalik si Josue kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa ila kampo sa Gilgal.
Gani nag-isa ining lima ka hari nga Amornon: ang hari sang Jerusalem, Hebron, Jarmut, Lakish, kag Eglon. Gintipon nila ang ila mga soldado kag ginsalakay ang Gibeon.
Nagpadala sang mensahi ang mga taga-Gibeon kay Josue didto sa ila kampo sa Gilgal. Siling nila, “Indi kami pagpabay-i nga imo mga alagad. Magkadto kamo gilayon diri kag luwasa kami. Buligi kami kay ginapulihan kami sang tanan nga hari nga Amornon nga nagaestar sa mga kabukiran.”
Gani naglakat si Josue kaupod ang tanan niya nga mga soldado, pati ang tanan nga maayo gid magpakig-away.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Indi ka magkahadlok sa ila. Ginatugyan ko sila sa imo mga kamot. Wala sing bisan isa sa ila nga makadaog sa imo.”
Bilog nga gab-i nga naglakat sila ni Josue halin sa Gilgal, kag ginsalakay nila ang mga kaaway nga wala nakabantay.
Sang mabalitaan ni Haring Jabin sang Hazor ang mga pagpangdaog sang mga Israelinhon, nagpadala siya sang mensahi sa kay Haring Jobab sang Madon, sa mga hari sang Shimron kag Acshaf,
Pagkatapos nagbalik sila ni Josue sa Hazor kag gin-agaw nila ini kag ginpatay ang hari sini. (Sadto nga panahon, ang Hazor amo ang labing gamhanan sa sina nga mga ginharian.)
Ginpamatay man nila ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Hazor. Ginlaglag nila ini sing bug-os,
Naagaw nila ni Josue ining tanan nga banwa. Ginpamatay nila ang mga pumuluyo sini, pati ang ila mga hari. Ginlaglag nila ini sing bug-os suno sa ginsugo ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero wala pagsunuga sang mga Israelinhon ang mga banwa sa mga bulobukid, luwas lang sa Hazor.
Ginpanguha sang mga Israelinhon ang tanan nga pagkabutang kag mga kasapatan sa sini nga mga banwa. Pero ginpamatay nila ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, kag wala gid sing may nabilin nga buhi.
Amo ato ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, kag ini ginsugo man ni Moises kay Josue. Gintuman gid ni Josue ang tanan nga ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Gani nasakop ni Josue ang bug-os nga duta: ang kabukiran, ang tanan nga kadutaan sang Negev, ang tanan nga kadutaan sang Goshen, ang mga bulobukid sa west, ang Kapatagan sang Jordan,
Ang teritoryo nga nasakop niya nagahalin Ang teritoryo nga nasakop niya nagahalin sa Bukid sang Halak nga pataklad sa Seir hasta sa Baal Gad sa Patag sang Lebanon sa ubos sang Bukid sang Hermon. Gindakop niya kag ginpamatay ang mga hari sang sini nga mga lugar
sa tapos sang ila malawig nga pagpakig-away.
Wala sing may nagpakig-abyan sa mga Israelinhon luwas lang sa mga Hivhanon nga nagaestar sa Gibeon. Ang iban ya, ginpamierde nila sa inaway.
sa mga hari sa kabukiran sa north, sa mga hari sa mga hari sa Kapatagan sang Jordan
Kay ginpatig-a sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ila tagipusuon para magpakig-away sila sa mga Israelinhon, kag para malaglag sila sing bug-os kag mapatay nga wala sing luoy-luoy, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Sang sadto man nga tion, ginsalakay ni Josue ang mga kaliwat ni Anak nga nagaestar sa mga kabukiran sang Hebron, Debir, Anab, kag sa tanan nga kabukiran sang Juda kag Israel. Ginlaglag sila ni Josue sing bug-os pati ang ila mga banwa.
Wala sing mga kaliwat ni Anak nga nabilin sa teritoryo sang mga Israelinhon, pero may nabilin pa sa ila sa Gaza, sa Gat, kag sa Ashdod.
Sang sadto nga tion, nauntat na ang inaway sa sina nga duta.
sa mga hari sa mga hari sang mga Canaanhon sa east kag sa west sang Suba sang Jordan, sa mga hari sang Suba sang Jordan, sa mga hari sang mga Amornon, Hithanon, Periznon, Jebusnon nga nagaestar sa kabukiran, kag sa mga hari sa mga hari sang mga Hivhanon nga nagaestar sa ubos sang Bukid sang Bukid sang Hermon sa duta sang Mizpa.
Nag-abot ini tanan nga hari, kaupod sang ila mga soldado nga ang ila kadamuon pareho sa balas sang baybayon. Puwerte man kadamo sang ila mga kabayo kag mga karwahe.
Nagtingob ini nga mga hari kag nagkampo sa higad sang Sapa sang Merom sa pagpakig-away sa Israel.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue, “Indi kamo magkahadlok sa ila, kay buwas sa amo man sini nga oras, pamatyon ko sila tanan para sa Israel. Pamiangon ninyo ang ila mga kabayo, kag sunugon ang ila mga karwahe.”
Gani nagsalakay gulpi si Josue kag ang iya mga soldado didto sa Sapa sang Merom.
Kag ginpadaog sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila mga kaaway. Ginlagas nila ang ila mga kaaway hasta sa Dako nga Sidon kag sa Misrefot Maim, kag hasta sa Patag sang Mizpa sa east. Naubos gid nila pamatay ang ila mga kaaway.
Dayon ginhimo ni Josue sa ila ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo : ginpamiang niya ang ila mga kabayo kag ginpangsunog ang ila mga karwahe.
ang hari sang Hebron
ang hari sang Lakish
ang hari sang Gezer
ang hari sang Geder
ang hari sang Arad
ang hari sang Adulam
ang hari sang Betel
ang hari sang Hefer
ang hari sang Lasharon
ang hari sang Hazor
ang hari sang Acshaf
ang hari sang Megido
ang hari sang Jokneam (sa Carmel)
ang hari sang Goim (sa Gilgal)
Ang tanan 31 ka mga hari.
Sakop man niya ang east sang Kapatagan sang Jordan, halin sa Dagat sang Galilea
Ang ikaduha amo si Og, ang hari sa Bashan. Isa siya sa mga nabilin nga Refaimnon. Nag-estar siya sa Ashtarot kag sa Edrei.
Ang sakop sang iya ginharian amo ang Bukid sang Hermon, Saleca, ang bilog nga Bashan hasta sa border sang taga-Geshur kag taga-Maaca, kag ang katunga sang Gilead, hasta sa border sang Heshbon nga ang hari amo si Sihon.
Gindaog sila ni Moises, nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag sang mga Israelinhon. Ginhatag ni Moises ang ila duta sa tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase bilang ila palanublion.
ang hari sang Ai (malapit sa Betel)
Sang tigulang na katama si Josue, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Tigulang ka na gid kag madamo pa nga duta ang kinahanglan nga agawon.
Nagalambot pa gid ini sa tanan nga banwa nga gin-gamhan ni Sihon nga Amornon nga naghari sa Heshbon, hasta sa border sang mga Ammonhon.
Nalakip man ang Gilead kag ang mga duta nga ginpuy-an sang mga Geshurnon kag mga Maacatnon, ang bilog nga Bukid sang Hermon, kag ang bilog nga Bashan hasta sa Saleca.
Nalakip man ang bilog nga ginharian ni Og nga naghari sa Ashtarot kag sa Edrei. Si Og isa sa mga nabilin sa mga Refaimnon nga ginpierdi ni Moises kag gintabog sa ila mga duta.
Pero wala matabog
Wala paghatagi ni Moises ang tribo ni Levi sang duta nga palanublion. Sa baylo, ang ila pagabatunon amo ang parte sang mga halad nga paagi sa kalayo
Amo ini ang parte sang duta nga ginhatag ni Moises sa tribo ni Reuben, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya:
Halin sa Aroer sa higad sang Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig (lakip na ang banwa sa higad sang sini nga ililigan) hasta sa bilog nga kapatagan sa palibot sang Medeba.
Nalakip man ang Heshbon kag ang tanan nga banwa sini sa kapatagan nga amo ang Dibon, Bamot Baal, Bet Baal Meon,
Jahaz, Kedemot, Mefaat,
Kiriataim, Sibma, Zeret Shahar (nga ara sa bukid sa kapatagan),
Amo pa ini ang mga nabilin: ang tanan nga duta sang mga Filistinhon kag Geshurnon
Bet Peor, ang ubos nga parte sang Pisga, Bet Jeshimot,
ang tanan nga banwa sang kapatagan kag ang tanan nga banwa nga sakop ni Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon nga naghari sa Heshbon. Ginpierdi siya ni Moises pati man ang mga pangulo sang Midian nga sila ni Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, kag Reba. Ini sila naghari sa ila mga duta sa idalom sang paggahom ni Haring Sihon.
Kaupod sa mga ginpamatay sang mga Israelinhon amo si Balaam nga manugpakot nga anak ni Beor.
Ang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan amo ang border sang tribo ni Reuben. Amo ato ang mga banwa kag mga baryo nga ginhatag sa tribo ni Reuben, nga ginpartida sa kada pamilya.
Amo ini ang parte sang duta nga ginhatag ni Moises sa tribo ni Gad, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya:
Ang Jazer kag ang tanan nga banwa sang Gilead, kag ang katunga sang duta sang mga Ammonhon hasta sa Aroer nga nagaatubang sa Raba.
Nalakip man ang mga duta halin sa Heshbon hasta sa Ramat Mizpa kag Betomin, kag halin sa Mahanaim hasta sa border sang Lo Debar.
Ang duta nga nabaton nila sa Kapatagan sang Jordan sang Jordan amo ang Bet Haram, Bet Nimra, Sucot, Zafon, kag ang nabilin sang ginharian ni Haring Sihon sang Heshbon. Ang border sa west amo ang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan hasta sa Dagat sang Galilea.
Amo ato ang mga banwa kag mga baryo nga ginhatag sa tribo ni Gad, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Amo ini ang parte sang duta nga ginhatag ni Moises sa katunga nga tribo ni Manase, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya:
nga sakop sang mga Canaanhon. Ini halin sa suba sang suba sang Shihor sa east sang Egypt hasta sa border sang Ekron sa north, kag pati ang lima ka banwa sang mga Filistinhon: ang Gaza, Ashdod, Ashkelon, Gat kag Ekron, kag ang duta sang mga Avimnon
Halin sa Mahanaim hasta sa bilog nga Bashan, ang bilog nga ginharian ni Haring Og sang Bashan, kag ang 60 ka banwa sang Jair nga sakop sang Bashan.
Nalakip man ang katunga sang Gilead, kag ang Ashtarot kag Edrei, ang mga banwa sa Bashan nga sa diin nagahari si Og. Amo ato ang duta nga ginhatag Amo ato ang duta nga ginhatag sa katunga sang mga kaliwat ni Makir nga anak ni Manase, suno sa kada pamilya.
Amo ato ang pagpartida ni Moises sang mga duta sa east sang Jerico kag Jordan sang didto siya sa kapatagan sang Moab.
Pero wala niya paghatagi ang tribo ni Levi sang duta nga ila duta nga ila palanublion tungod kay ang ila palanublion amo ang Ginoo Ginoo
sa south; ang tanan nga duta sang mga Canaanhon halin sa Meara, nga iya sang una sang mga Sidonhon, hasta sa Afek nga ara sa border sang duta sang mga Amornon;
ang duta sang mga Gebalnon, kag ang bilog nga Lebanon sa east, halin sa Baal Gad sa ubos sang Bukid sang Hermon hasta sa Lebo Hamat;
“Sa inyo pagsalakay, ako mismo ang magtabog sa mga pumuluyo sang sini nga mga duta. Siguruhon mo nga mapartida ini nga mga duta sa mga Israelinhon bilang ila palanublion, suno sa ginsugo ko sa imo.
Partidahon mo ini nga mga duta sa siyam ka tribo kag sa katunga nga tribo ni Manase.”
Ang tribo ni Reuben, Gad kag ang katunga nga tribo ni Manase ginhatagan na ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo sang ila parte sa east sang Jordan.
Ang duta nila halin sa Aroer sa higad sang Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig (lakip na ang banwa sa higad sang sini nga ililigan) pakadto sa bilog nga kapatagan halin sa Medeba hasta sa Dibon.
Amo ini ang pagpartida sang iban pa nga mga duta sang Canaan sa mga Israelinhon. Ginpartida ini ni Eleazar nga pari, ni Josue nga anak ni Nun, kag sang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang kada tribo sang Israel.
“45 na ka tuig ang nagligad sang ginhambal ato sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises. Nagapanglakaton pa sadto ang mga Israelinhon sa kamingawan. Karon 85 na ang akon edad kag buhi pa gihapon sa bulig sang Ginoo Ginoo kag suno sa iya promisa.
Ang akon kabaskog pareho pa gihapon sadtong panahon nga ginsugo ako ni Moises. Masarangan ko pa gihapon nga magpakig-away pareho sang una.
Gani ihatag sa akon ini nga kabukiran nga ginpromisa sa akon sadto sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ikaw mismo nakabati sadto anay nga ang mga kaliwat ni Anak nagaestar didto kag mapag-on ang ila mga banwa nga may mga pader. Pero sa bulig sang Ginoo Ginoo palayason ko sila sa sina nga duta suno sa ginpromisa niya sa akon.”
Dayon ginbendisyunan ni Josue si Caleb nga anak ni Jefune, kag ginhatag sa iya ang Hebron bilang iya palanublion.
Gani hasta subong, ang Hebron iya sang mga kaliwat ni Caleb nga anak ni Jefune nga Keniznon, tungod kay ginsunod ni Caleb sing matutom ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Dios sang Israel.
Sang sadto nga tion, nauntat na ang inaway sa duta sang mga Israelinhon.
Suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises, ang mga duta sang siyam kag tunga ka tribo ginpamartida sa ila paagi sa gabot-gabot.
Amo ato ang pagpartida sang mga duta sa mga Israelinhon suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Nagkadto sadto kay Josue sa Gilgal ang pila ka tawo halin sa tribo ni Juda. Ang isa sini sa ila amo si Caleb nga anak ni Jefune nga Keniznon. Nagsiling siya kay Josue, “Nadumduman mo pa bala ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises nga alagad sang Dios parte sa aton nga duha sang didto kita sa Kadesh Barnea?
40 pa lang sadto ang akon edad sang ginsugo ako ni Moises halin sa Kadesh Barnea sa pagpang-espiya sa duta sang Canaan sang Canaan . Kag sang akon pagbalik, ginsugid ko sa iya kon ano ang ara sa akon hunahuna parte sa duta parte sa duta .
Pero ginpahadlok sang akon mga kaupdanan ang aton mga kasimanwa. Pero ako ya, matutom nga nagsunod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios.
Gani sang sina nga adlaw nagpromisa si Moises sa akon. Siling niya, ‘Tungod kay matutom ka sa pagsunod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, mangin imo kag sang imo mga kaliwat ang duta nga imo ginkadtuan sang nagpang-espiya ka sang nagpang-espiya ka .’
Amo ini ang duta nga nabaton sang tribo ni Juda, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya: Ang duta nagalambot hasta sa border sang Edom sa south, sa punta gid sang kamingawan sang Zin.
kag nagapaliko sa west sang Baala pakadto sa Bukid sang Seir. Dayon nagapadulong ini sa dulhugan sa north sang Bukid sang Jearim (nga amo ang Kesalon), pakadto sa Bet Shemesh kag nagaagi sa Timnah.
Halin didto nagapadayon ini sa dulhugan sa north sang Ekron kag nagaliko pakadto sa Shikeron, kag nagaagi sa Bukid sang Baala hasta sa Jabneel. Ang katapusan sini amo ang Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo ,
Amo ina ang mga border palibot sa duta nga ginpartida sa mga pamilya sang tribo ni Juda.
Ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo si Josue nga ihatag niya ang isa ka parte sang duta sang tribo ni Juda kay Caleb nga anak ni Jefune. Ini nga duta amo ang Kiriat Arba, nga amo ang Hebron. (Gin-ngalanan ini kay Arba nga amay ni Anak.)
Ginpalayas ni Caleb sa amo nga duta ang tatlo ka kaliwat ni Anak nga amo ang mga pamilya ni Sheshai, Ahiman, kag Talmai.
Halin didto ginsalakay niya ang Debir (nga sang una ginatawag nga Kiriat Sefer).
Nagsiling si Caleb, “Ipaasawa ko ang akon anak nga si Acsa sa tawo nga magsalakay kag mag-agaw sa Kiriat Sefer.”
Si Otniel nga anak ni Kenaz nga utod ni Caleb amo ang nakaagaw sang banwa. Gani ginpaasawa ni Caleb sa iya ang iya anak nga si Acsa.
Sang makasal na sila, ginkombinsi ni Acsa ang iya bana
Nagsabat si Acsa, “Hatagi man ako sang pabor. Gusto ko kuntani nga hatagan mo ako sang mga tuburan, kay ang duta nga ginhatag mo sa akon sa Negev wala sing tuburan wala sing tuburan .” Gani ginhatag ni Caleb sa iya ang lugar nga may lugar nga may tuburan sa ibabaw kag sa ubos.
Ang border sini nga duta sa south nagasugod sa south sang Patay nga Dagat
Amo ini ang mga banwa nga mga banwa nga nabaton sang tribo ni Juda nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya:
Ang mga banwa sa south, sa pinakapunta sang Negev malapit sa border sang Edom: Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur,
Kina, Dimona, Adada,
Kedesh, Hazor, Itnan,
Zif, Telem, Bealot,
Hazor Hadata, Keriot Hezron (nga amo ang Hazor),
Amam, Shema, Molada,
Hazar Gada, Heshmon, Bet Pelet,
Hazar Shual, Beersheba, Biziotia,
Baala, Iim, Ezem,
kag nagapakadto sa south sang Taklaran sang Akrabim hasta sa kamingawan sang kamingawan sang Zin. Nagalambot ini sa south sang Kadesh Barnea kag nagaagi sa Hezron pataklad sa Addar. Nagaliko ini pakadto sa Karka,
Eltolad, Kesil, Horma,
Ziklag, Madmana, Sansana,
Lebaot, Shilhim, Ain, kag Rimmon—29 tanan ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Ang mga banwa mga banwa sa mga bulobukid sa west: Eshtaol, Zora, Ashna,
Zanoa, En Ganim, Tapua, Enam,
Jarmut, Adulam, Soco, Azeka,
Shaaraim, Aditaim, kag Gedera (ukon
Ang Zenan, Hadasha, Migdal Gad,
Dilean, Mizpa, Jokteel,
Lakish, Bozkat, Eglon,
padulong sa Azmon, dayon sa ililigan sang tubig sang Egypt hasta sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo . Amo ato ang border sang Juda sa south.
Cabon, Lamas, Kitlish,
Gederot, Bet Dagon, Naama, kag Makeda—16 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Ang Libna, Eter, Ashan,
Ifta, Ashna, Nezib,
Keila, Aczib, kag Maresha—9 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Ang Ekron kag ang mga banwa kag mga baryo sa palibot sini,
kag ang tanan nga banwa kag mga baryo nga malapit sa Ashdod halin sa Ekron pakadto sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo .
Ang Ashdod kag Gaza, lakip ang ila mga banwa kag mga baryo hasta sa ililigan sang tubig sang Egypt kag sa baybayon sang Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo .
Ang mga banwa mga banwa sa kabukiran: Shamir, Jatir, Soco,
Dana, Kiriat Sana (nga amo ang Debir),
Ang border sa north nagahalin didto sa guluwaan sang tubig sang Suba sang Jordan
Anab, Eshtemo, Anim,
Goshen, Holon, kag Gilo—11 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Ang Arab, Duma, Eshan,
Janim, Bet Tapua, Afeka,
Humta, Kiriat Arba (nga amo ang Hebron), kag Zior—9 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Maon, Carmel, Zif, Juta,
Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoa,
Kain, Gibeah, kag Timnah—10 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Ang Halhul, Bet Zur, Gedor,
Maarat, Bet Anot, kag Eltekon—6 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
pataklad sa Bet Hogla, kag padulong sa north sang Bet Araba pataklad sa Bato ni Bohan nga anak ni Reuben.
Ang Kiriat Baal (nga amo ang Kiriat Jearim) kag ang Raba—2 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Ang mga banwa mga banwa sa kamingawan: Bet Araba, Midin, Secaca,
Nibshan, ang Banwa sang Asin kag ang En Gedi—6 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Pero wala mapahalin sang tribo sang Juda ang mga Jebusnon nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem. Gani hasta subong didto pa sila nagaestar upod sa katawhan sang Juda.
Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa Kapatagan sang Acor
Halin didto nagapakadto ini sa Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom hasta sa dulhugan sa south sang siyudad sang mga Jebusnon. (Ini nga siyudad amo ang Jerusalem.) Dayon nagapataklad ini sa putokputokan sang bukid, sa west sang Pulopatag sang Ben Ben Hinom, sa punta sang north sang Kapatagan sang Refaim.
Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa Tuburan sang Neftoa, kag nagapaguwa sa mga banwa nga malapit sa Bukid sang Efron. Dayon nagadulhog ini sa Baala (nga amo ang Kiriat Jearim),
Ang duta nga ginhatag sa mga kaliwat ni Jose nagahalin sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan malapit sa Jerico, sa east sang mga tuburan sang Jerico, pakadto sa kamingawan kag sa kabukiran hasta sa Betel.
Wala nila ginpalayas ang mga Canaanhon nga nagaestar sa Gezer; gani may mga Canaanhon nga nagaestar upod sa mga Efraimnon hasta subong, ugaling ginhimo sila nga mga ulipon.
Halin sa Betel (nga amo ang Luz
kag nagapadulhog ini sa west pakadto sa lugar sang mga Jafletnon hasta sa border sang idalom nga parte sang Bet Horon. Kag nagapadayon ini sa Gezer hasta sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo .
Amo ina ang parte nga nabaton sang mga tribo sang mga tribo ni Manase kag ni Efraim nga mga kaliwat ni Jose.
Amo ini ang parte sang tribo ni tribo ni Efraim nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya: ang border sini sa east nagasugod sa Atarot Addar kag nagapakadto sa ibabaw nga parte sang Bet Horon
hasta sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo . Ang border sa north nagasugod sa Micmetat kag nagaliko pa-east sa Taanat Shilo, kag nagaagi sa east sang Janoa.
Kag halin sa Janoa nagapanaog ini sa Atarot kag Naara, kag nagaagi sa Jerico pakadto sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Halin sa Tapua, ang border nagapakadto sa west, kag nagaagi sa Kana nga ililigan sang tubig hasta sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo . Amo ina ang duta nga ginhatag sa tribo ni Efraim nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Lakip sini ang iban nga iban nga mga banwa kag mga baryo nga nasakop sa duta sang mga kaliwat ni Manase.
May ginhatag man nga duta para sa katunga sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase nga kamagulangan nga anak ni Jose. Ang Gilead kag ang Bashan sa east sang Suba sang Jordan sa east sang Suba sang Jordan ginhatag na sa pamilya ni Makir tungod kay maayo siya nga soldado. (Si Makir nga amay ni Gilead amo ang kamagulangan nga anak ni Manase.)
Ang duta sa south sang ililigan ililigan iya sang tribo ni tribo ni Efraim kag ang duta sa north sang ililigan ililigan iya sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase. Ang border sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase sa west sa west amo ang Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo . Nagatambi ang tribo ni tribo ni Manase sa tribo ni tribo ni Asher sa north kag sa tribo ni tribo ni Isacar sa east.
Amo ini ang mga banwa sa duta sang mga tribo sang mga tribo ni Isacar kag ni Asher nga ginhatag sa tribo ni tribo ni Manase: ang Bet Shean, Ibleam, Dor (ukon Nafot Dor Dor ), Endor, Taanac, Megido, kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Pero ini nga mga banwa wala mapanag-iyahan sang mga kaliwat ni Manase, kay indi nila mapahalin ang mga Canaanhon didto.
Pero sang mabakod na ang mga Israelinhon, gin-ulipon nila ang mga Canaanhon, pero wala nila sila ginpalayas.
Nagsiling ang mga kaliwat ni Jose kay Josue, “Ngaa isa lang ka parte sang duta ang ginhatag mo sa amon? Damo kami katama tungod kay ginpakamaayo gid kami sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsabat si Josue, “Kon madamo gid man kamo kag gamay lang para sa inyo ang mga kabukiran sang Efraim, kadto kamo sa mga kagulangan sang mga Periznon kag mga Refaimnon. Didto magpanghawan kamo sang lugar para sa inyo kaugalingon.”
Nagsiling ang mga kaliwat ni Jose, “Ang mga kabukiran gamay para sa amon. Kag indi namon masarangan ang mga Canaanhon sa kapatagan tungod kay may mga karwahe sila nga salsalon. Kag amo man ang mga Canaanhon sa Bet Shean kag sa mga banwa sa palibot sini, kag sa Kapatagan sang Jezreel.”
Nagsabat liwat si Josue, “Tungod damo kamo katama kag puwerte pa kagamhanan, indi lang isa ang inyo parte,
mangin inyo man ang mga kagulangan sang kabukiran. Bisan kagulangan ini, hawani lang ninyo, kay mangin inyo ini halin sa puno hasta sa punta. Kag sigurado nga mapalayas ninyo ang mga Canaanhon bisan gamhanan pa sila kag may mga karwahe nga salsalon.”
Ang duta sa west sang Suba sang Jordan sa west sang Suba sang Jordan ginhatag sa iban nga mga kaliwat ni Manase nga amo ang mga pamilya ni Abiezer, Helek, Asriel, Shekem, Hefer, kag Shemida. Ginpanagtag ini sa ila suno sa kada pamilya.
Karon may isa ka tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Zelofehad. Anak siya ni Hefer kag apo ni Gilead. Si Gilead anak ni Makir, kag si Makir anak ni Manase. Si Zelofehad wala sing mga anak nga lalaki, kundi mga babayi lang. Sila amo sanday Mala, Noa, Hogla, Milca, kag Tirza.
Nagkadto sila kay Eleazar nga pari, kay Josue nga anak ni Nun, kag sa mga pangulo kag nagsiling, “Nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises nga hatagan kami sang duta pareho sa amon mga paryente nga lalaki.” Gani ginhatagan sila sang ila parte suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ini ang rason kon ngaa ang tribo ni tribo ni Manase nakabaton sang napulo ka parte sang duta, wala labot sa Gilead kag Bashan sa east sang Jordan,
tungod kay ginhatagan man sang parte ang iya mga kaliwat nga babayi kaupod sang iya mga kaliwat nga lalaki. Ang Gilead ginhatag sa iban pa nga mga kaliwat ni Manase.
Ang border sang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase nagasugod sa Asher hasta sa Micmetat, sa east sang Shekem. Dayon nagapadulong ini sa south pakadto sa duta sang duta sang mga tawo nga nagaestar malapit sa tuburan sang Tapua.
(Ang mga duta sa palibot sang Tapua iya sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase, pero ang Tapua mismo, nga ara sa border sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase, iya sang mga kaliwat ni Efraim.)
Dayon ang border nagapakadto sa Kana nga ililigan sang tubig. May mga banwa sa south sang sina nga ililigan nga iya sang tribo ni tribo ni Efraim, bisan nalakip ini sa mga banwa sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase. Ang border sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase nagapadayon sa north sang ililigan hasta sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo .
Sa tapos maagaw sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel ang duta, nagtipon sila tanan sa Shilo, kag nagpatindog sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Kag paagi sa paggabot-gabot ginhatagan ni Josue sang parte ang mga tribo sang Israel nga wala pa sang duta nga wala pa sang duta .
Ang una nga parte sang duta nagkadto sa tribo ni Benjamin. Ara ini sa tunga-tunga sang mga duta nga ginhatag sadto sa tribo ni Juda kag sa mga tribo ni Jose.
Ang border sini sa north nagasugod sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, kag nagapataklad sa dulhugan sa north sang Jerico. Dayon nagapataklad ini sa west sa mga kabukiran hasta sa kamingawan sang Bet Aven.
Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa dulhugan sa south sang Luz (nga amo ang Betel). Dayon nagapadulhog ini sa Atarot Addar, sa bukid sa south sang idalom nga parte sang Bet Horon.
Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa west sang bukid nga nagaatubang sa Bet Horon kag nagapadulong sa south. Nagauntat ini sa Kiriat Baal (nga amo ang Kiriat Jearim), isa ka banwa sang tribo ni Juda. Amo ini ang border sa west.
Ang border sa south nagasugod sa guwa sang Kiriat Jearim. Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa west sa mga tuburan sang Neftoa.
Nagapadulhog dayon ini sa ubos sang bukid nga nagaatubang sa Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom. Ini nga pulopatag ara sa north sang Kapatagan sang Refaim. Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa Pulopatag sang Ben Ben Hinom, sa dulhugan sa south sang banwa sang mga Jebusnon, padulong sa En Rogel.
Nagaliko dayon ini pa-north pakadto sa En Shemesh hasta sa Gelilot nga nagaatubang sa Taklaran sang Adumim. Dayon nagapadulhog ini sa Bato ni Bohan nga anak ni Reuben
kag nagaagi sa dulhugan sa north sang Kapatagan sang Jordan
Dayon nagapakadto ini sa dulhugan sa north sang Bet Hogla, kag nagauntat ini sa alagyan sang tubig sa north sang Patay nga Dagat,
May pito pa ka tribo sang mga Israelinhon nga wala pa mapartihi sang duta.
Amo ato ang mga border sang duta nga nabaton sang tribo ni Benjamin suno sa kada pamilya.
Jerico, Bet Hogla, Emek Keziz,
Bet Araba, Zemaraim, Betel,
Avim, Para, Ofra,
Kefar Amoni, Ofni, kag Geba—12 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Dugang pa gid amo ang Dugang pa gid amo ang Gibeon, Rama, Beerot,
Mizpa, Kefira, Moza,
Rekem, Irpeel, Tarala,
Amo ato ang nabaton sang tribo ni Benjamin nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Gani nagsiling si Josue sa mga Israelinhon, “San-o pa bala ninyo sakupon ang nabilin nga nabilin nga duta nga ginhatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan?
Magpili kamo sang tatlo ka tawo sa kada tribo. Palakton ko sila sa pag-usisa sa nabilin nga nabilin nga duta. Dayon magbalik sila diri sa akon nga may dala nga mapa nga ila ginhimo nga nagapakita kon paano partidahon ang amo nga duta.
Dapat partidahon ang duta sa pito ka parte, wala labot sa duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Juda sa south kag sang mga tribo ni Jose sa north.
Pagkatapos nga madala ang mapa sa akon, gabot-gabutan ko dayon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios kon kay sin-o nga tribo makadto ang kada parte sang duta.
Pero ang mga Levita indi pagpartidahan sang duta, tungod kay ang ila parte amo ang pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang mga pari. Ang mga tribo ni Gad, kag ni Reuben, kag ang katunga sang tribo ni Manase nakabaton na sang ila parte sang duta sa east sang Jordan, nga ginhatag sa ila ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Sang maglakat na ang napili nga mga tawo, nagsiling si Josue sa ila, “Usisaa ninyo ang duta kag himui ninyo ini sang mapa. Dayon magbalik kamo diri sa akon sa Shilo, kay gabot-gabutan ko dayon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kon kay sin-o nga tribo makadto ang kada parte sang duta.”
Gani naglakat ang mga tawo sa pag-usisa sa duta. Dayon ginhimuan nila ini sang mapa sa linukot nga sululatan, nga ang duta napartida sa pito ka parte, kag ginlista nila ang mga banwa kag mga banwa nga sakop sang kada parte. Pagkatapos nagbalik sila kay Josue sa Shilo.
Ang ikaduha nga ginpartidahan sang duta amo ang mga pamilya sang tribo ni Simeon. Ang ila duta ara sa tunga sang duta nga ginhatag sa tribo ni Juda.
Ang border sang ila duta nagasugod sa Sarid.
Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa west: sa Marala, sa Dabeshet, kag nagapadayon sa ililigan sang tubig sa east sang Jokneam.
Halin sa pihak nga parte sang Sarid, nagapakadto ang border sa east sa border sang Kislot Tabor, kag nagapadayon sa Daberat hasta sa Jafia.
Halin didto, nagapakadto ini sa east sa Gat Hefer, sa Et Kazin, kag sa Rimmon, kag nagaliko padulong sa Nea.
Ang border sang Zebulun sang Zebulun sa north nagaagi sa Hanaton kag nagapakadto hasta sa Kapatagan sang Ifta El.
Dose ka banwa ang sakop sang Zebulun ang sakop sang Zebulun , lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini. Dugang pa gid amo Dugang pa gid amo ang mga banwa sang Katat, Nahalal, Shimron, Idala, kag Betlehem.
Amo ato ang mga banwa kag mga baryo nga nabaton sang tribo ni Zebulun, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Ang ikaapat nga ginpartidahan sang duta amo ang mga pamilya sang tribo ni Isacar.
Amo ini ang mga banwa nga sakop nila: Jezreel, Kesulot, Shunem,
Hafaraim, Shion, Anaharat,
Nagalakip ini sang Beersheba ( ukon ukon Sheba),
Rabit, Kishion, Ebez,
Remet, En Ganim, En Hada, kag Bet Pazez.
Ang border sang duta nagalambot sa Tabor, sa Shahazuma, kag sa Bet Shemesh, kag hasta sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. 16 ka banwa ang sakop sang Isacar, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Amo ato ang mga banwa kag mga baryo nga nabaton sang tribo ni Isacar, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Ang ikalima nga ginpartidahan sang duta amo ang mga pamilya sang tribo ni Asher.
Helkat, Hali, Beten, Acshaf,
Alamelec, Amad, kag Mishal. Ang border sang sini nga duta sa west nagalambot sa Carmel kag sa Shihor Libnat.
Nagaliko ini pa-east pakadto sa Bet Dagon kag nagalambot sa Zebulun kag sa Kapatagan sang Ifta El. Dayon nagapakadto ini sa north pakadto sa Bet Emek kag Niel. Nagapadulong pa gid ini sa north pakadto sa Cabul,
Nagaliko dayon ini pakadto sa Rama kag sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Tyre, kag nagapadulong sa Hosa, kag nagauntat sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo sang Mediteraneo . Ang iban pa gid nga mga banwa nga ila sakop amo ang Mahebel, Aczib,
Hazar Shual, Bala, Ezem,
Umma, Afek, kag Rehob—22 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Amo ato ang mga banwa kag mga baryo nga nabaton sang tribo ni Asher, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Ang ikaanom nga ginpartidahan sang duta amo ang mga pamilya sang tribo ni Naftali.
Ang border sang ila duta nagasugod halin sa Helef kag sa dako nga kahoy sa Zaananim pakadto sa Adami Nekeb kag Jabneel hasta sa Lakum, kag nagauntat sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Halin didto, nagaliko ini sa west pakadto sa Aznot Tabor, dayon sa Hukok, hasta sa border sang Zebulun sa south, sa border sang Asher sa west kag sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan
Ang iban nga napaderan nga mga banwa nga sakop sang sini nga duta amo ini: Zidim, Zer, Hammat, Rakat, Kineret,
Adama, Rama, Hazor,
Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor,
Iron, Migdal El, Horem, Bet Anat, kag Bet Shemesh—19 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Amo ato ang mga banwa kag mga baryo nga nabaton sang tribo ni Naftali, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Eltolad, Betul, Horma,
Ang ikapito nga ginpartidahan sang duta amo ang mga pamilya sang tribo ni Dan.
Amo ini ang mga banwa nga sakop nila: Zora, Eshtaol, Ir Shemesh,
Shaalabin, Ayalon, Itla,
Elon, Timnah, Ekron,
Elteke, Gibeton, Baalat,
Jehud, Bene Berak, Gat Rimon,
Me Jarkon, kag Rakon, pati man ang kadutaan nga nagaatubang sa Jopa.
Binudlayan sadto ang mga kaliwat ni Dan sa pag-agaw sang ila duta, gani ginsalakay nila ang Leshem
Amo ato ang mga banwa kag mga baryo nga nabaton sang tribo ni Dan, nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Pagkatapos partida sang mga Israelinhon sang ila duta, ginhatagan nila si Josue nga anak ni Nun sang iya parte.
Ziklag, Bet Marcabot, Hazar Susa,
Suno sa ginmando sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginhatag nila sa iya ang banwa nga iya ginpangayo—ang Timnat Sera sa kabukiran sang Efraim. Ginpatindog niya liwat ini nga banwa kag didto nag-estar.
Ang nagpartida sang duta amo sila ni Eleazar nga pari, Josue nga anak ni Nun, kag ang mga pangulo sang kada tribo sang Israel. Ginhimo nila ini paagi sa paggabot-gabot sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan didto sa Shilo. Gani natapos ang pagpartida sang duta.
Bet Lebaot, kag Sharuhen—13 ka banwa, lakip ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Dugang pa gid amo ang Dugang pa gid amo ang Ain, Rimmon, Eter, kag Ashan—4 ka banwa, lakip ang tanan nga baryo sa palibot sini,
Amo ato ang duta nga nabaton sang tribo ni Simeon nga ginpartida suno sa kada pamilya.
Ang iban sini halin sa duta nga ginhatag sa tribo ni Juda tungod nga ang ila duta sobra kalapad para sa ila. Gani nabaton sang tribo ni Simeon ang ila duta sa tunga sang duta sang tribo ni Juda.
Karon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Josue,
“Silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga magpili sila sang mga banwa nga dalangpan suno sa ginsiling ko sadto sa inyo paagi kay Moises.
Ang tawo nga nakapatay nga indi hungod makapalagyo didto kag makapanago sa mga tawo nga gusto magbalos sa iya.
Makapalagyo siya sa isa sa sini nga mga banwa, kag mag-atubang sa mga manugdumala didto sa may puwertahan sang banwa kag magpaathag sa ila parte sa natabo. Dayon pasudlon siya kag didto paestaron.
Kon lagson siya didto sang gusto magbalos sa iya, indi siya pag-itugyan sang mga pumuluyo. Pagaapinan nila siya tungod kay indi hungod ang pagpatay niya sa iya isigkatawo, kag ginhimo niya ini indi tungod sa iya kaakig.
Magatiner siya sa amo nga banwa hasta mapamatian ang iya kaso sa atubangan sang komunidad, kag hasta mapatay ang pangulo nga pari nga nagaalagad sa sadto nga tion. Dayon makapuli na siya sa ila.”
Gani ginpili nila ang Kedesh sa Galilea sa kabukiran sang Naftali, ang Shekem sa kabukiran sang Efraim, kag ang Kiriat Arba (nga amo ang Hebron), sa kabukiran sang Juda.
Sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan malapit sa Jerico, ginpili nila ang Bezer sa kamingawan sang kapatagan nga sakop sang tribo ni Reuben, ang Ramot sa Gilead nga sakop sang tribo ni Gad, kag ang Golan sa Bashan nga sakop sang tribo ni Manase.
Amo ini ang mga banwa nga dalangpan nga ginpili para sa mga Israelinhon kag sa mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa ila. Ang bisan sin-o nga makapatay nga indi hungod makadangop didto, para indi siya pagpatyon sang gusto magbalos sa iya, sa wala pa mapamatian ang iya kaso sa atubangan sang komunidad.
Karon, ang mga pangulo sang mga kaliwat ni Levi nagkadto kay Eleazar nga pari, kay Josue nga anak ni Nun, kag sa mga pangulo sang kada tribo sang Israel
Ginhatag sa ila ang Kiriat Arba (nga amo ang Hebron) sa kabukiran sang Juda, lakip na ang mga palahalban sa palibot sini. (Si Arba amo ang amay
Pero ang mga kaumahan kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sang sini nga banwa ginhatag na kay Caleb nga anak ni Jefune bilang iya parte.
Gani ginhatag sa mga kaliwat ni Aaron nga pari ang Hebron nga isa sa mga banwa nga dalangpan, nga sa diin makapalagyo ang tawo nga nakapatay nga indi niya hungod nga indi niya hungod . Ginhatag pa gid sa ila ang Libna,
Ain, Juta, kag Bet Shemesh, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban: 9 ka banwa halin sa kadutaan sang mga tribo ni Simeon kag ni Juda.
13 tanan ka banwa, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban, ang nabaton sang mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron.
didto sa Shilo sa duta sang Canaan. Nagsiling sila, “Nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises nga hatagan kami sang mga banwa nga amon pagaestaran kag mga palahalban
Kag halin naman sa kadutaan sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase sa west sa west , nabaton nila ining duha ka banwa: ang Taanac kag Gat Rimon, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban.
10 tanan ka banwa, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban, ang nabaton sang iban nga mga kaliwat ni Kohat.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Gershon nga halin sa tribo ni Levi nakabaton sang duha ka banwa halin sa kadutaan sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase sa east sa east . Ini amo ang Golan sa Bashan (nga isa sa mga banwa nga dalangpan, nga sa diin makapalagyo ang tawo nga nakapatay nga indi niya hungod nga indi niya hungod ), kag ang Beeshtera, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban.
Gani suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginhatagan ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sang mga banwa kag mga palahalban halin sa mga duta sang mga Israelinhon.
Ginhatagan pa gid sila sang tatlo ka banwa halin sa kadutaan sang tribo ni Naftali. Ini amo ang Kedesh sa Galilea (nga isa man sa mga banwa nga dalangpan, nga sa diin makapalagyo ang tawo nga nakapatay nga indi niya hungod nga indi niya hungod ), ang Hamot Dor, kag ang Kartan, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban.
13 tanan ka banwa, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban, ang nabaton sang mga kaliwat ni Gershon.
Ang una nga nakabaton sang mga banwa amo ang mga kaliwat ni Kohat. Ang iban sini sa ila mga kaliwat ni Aaron, kag ginhatagan sila sang 13 ka banwa halin sa kadutaan sang mga tribo ni Juda, ni Simeon, kag ni Benjamin.
12 tanan ka banwa, lakip ang ila sini mga palahalban, ang nabaton sang mga kaliwat ni Merari nga halin sa tribo ni Levi.
Gani ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel ang tanan nga duta nga iya ginpromisa sa ila mga katigulangan. Sang masakop na nila ini, didto na sila nag-estar.
Ginhatagan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kalinong sa ila mga kaaway sa ila mga kaaway sa palibot, suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila mga katigulangan. Wala sila napierdi sang ila mga kaaway tungod kay ginpadaog sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nila nga kaaway.
Gintuman gid sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan niya nga ginpromisa sa katawhan sang Israel.
Ang iban sang mga kaliwat ni Kohat ginhatagan sang 10 ka banwa halin sa kadutaan sang mga tribo ni Efraim, ni Dan, kag sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Gershon ginhatagan sang 13 ka banwa halin sa kadutaan sang mga tribo ni Isacar, ni Asher, ni Naftali, kag sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase sa Bashan.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Merari ginhatagan sang 12 ka banwa halin sa kadutaan sang mga tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag ni Zebulun.
Gani paagi sa paggabot-gabot, ginhatagan sang mga Israelinhon ang mga kaliwat ni Levi sang mga banwa kag mga palahalban, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Karon, gintipon ni Josue ang mga katawhan sang tribo sang tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase.
Pag-abot nila sa Gelilot, malapit sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, nagpatindog sila didto sang dako nga halaran. Ini nga lugar sakop gihapon sang Canaan.
Ginsugo sang mga Israelinhon si Finehas nga anak ni Eleazar nga pari nga magkadto sa Gilead, sa tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad kag sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase.
May upod siya nga napulo ka pangulo halin sa kada tribo sang Israel. Kada isa sa ila pangulo sang mga pamilya sang ila mga tribo.
Pag-abot nila sa Gilead, nagsiling sila sa tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase,
“Gusto mahibaluan sang bilog nga komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo kon ngaa nagluib kamo sa Dios sang Israel. Nagrebelde kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo pagpatindog sang halaran para sa inyo kaugalingon. Wala na kamo nagasunod sa iya.
Wala pa bala kita makatuon sa aton sala didto sa Peor? Tungod sadto ginpadal-an kita sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kahalitan, kag nagaantos pa gani kita hasta subong.
Kag karon nangahas pa kamo nga magtalikod sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kon magrebelde gani kamo sa iya subong nga adlaw, buwas mangakig gid siya sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel.
Gani, kon ang inyo duta ginakabig nga mahigko, tabok kamo didto sa amon, sa duta sang Ginoo Ginoo nga sa diin ara ang Tolda nga ginasimbahan sa iya, kag didto na kamo mag-estar. Pero indi lang kamo magpatindog sang iban nga halaran luwas sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, tungod kay ina isa ka pagrebelde sa iya kag sa amon.
Nagsiling si Josue sa ila, “Ginhimo ninyo ang tanan nga ginsugo sa inyo ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo kag gintuman man ninyo ang tanan ko nga ginsugo.
Nalimtan na bala ninyo si Acan nga anak ni Zera? Sang ginlapas niya ang sugo parte sa mga butang nga ginhalad sing bug-os sa Ginoo Ginoo , ginsilutan siya kag ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel. Indi lang siya ang napatay tungod sa iya sala.”
Nagsabat ang mga tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase sa sadto nga mga pangulo:
“Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Makagagahom nga Dios! Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Makagagahom nga Dios! Nakahibalo siya kon ngaa ginhimo namon ini, kag dapat man ninyo mahibaluan. Kon nagrebelde gid man kami ukon naglapas sa Ginoo Ginoo , pamatya ninyo kami sa sini nga adlaw.
Kon ginlapas namon ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagpatindog sang amon kaugalingon nga halaran para sa mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga regalo, ukon mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, kabay pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang magsilot sa amon.
“Ginhimo namon ini tungod nahadlok kami kay basi pa kon sa ulihi nga panahon ang inyo mga kaliwat magsiling sa amon mga kaliwat, ‘Ano ang labot ninyo sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel?
Ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga border ang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan sa pagseparar sa inyo kag sa amon. Kamo nga mga tribo ni Reuben kag ni Gad, wala gid kamo sing labot sa Ginoo Ginoo .’ Basi kon amo ina ang ila nga isiling Basi kon amo ina ang ila nga isiling kag mapauntat nila ang amon mga kaliwat sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ginpatindog namon ang halaran, indi para sa mga halad nga ginasunog kag sa iban pa nga mga halad,
kundi bilang padumdom sa amon, sa inyo, kag para sa aton mga kaliwat nga ginasimba namon ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, kag iban pa nga mga halad didto sa iya Tolda.
Kag kon matabo gid man nga hambalan nila ang amon mga kaliwat sang pareho sina, makasiling sila, ‘Tan-awa! Nagpatindog ang amon mga katigulangan sang halaran nga pareho sang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo , indi para sa mga halad nga ginasunog kag sa iban pa nga mga halad, kundi bilang padumdom sa amon kag sa inyo nga isa lang ka Dios ang aton ginasimba nga isa lang ka Dios ang aton ginasimba .’
“Indi namon mahimo nga magrebelde ukon magtalikod sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagpatindog sang amon kaugalingon nga halaran sang mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga regalo, kag sa iban pa nga mga halad. Indi namon pag-ibaylo ang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios nga ara sa atubangan sang iya Tolda.”
Hasta subong wala ninyo pagpabay-i ang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon. Kag gintuman ninyo sing maayo ang tanan nga ginsugo sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Nalipay si Finehas nga pari kag ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang komunidad sang Israel sang nabatian nila ang ginsiling sang mga tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase.
Gani nagsiling si Finehas nga anak ni Eleazar nga pari, “Nahibaluan ta karon nga kaupod ta ang Ginoo Ginoo kay wala kamo nagluib sa iya. Ginluwas ninyo ang Israel sa silot sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Dayon nagpuli sa Canaan si Finehas kag ang mga pangulo kag ginsugid nila sa mga Israelinhon ang ila pag-estorya sa mga tribo ni Reuben kag ni Gad didto sa Gilead.
Pagkabati nila sini, nalipay sila kag nagdayaw sa Dios. Kag wala na sila naghambal parte sa pagsalakay sa kadutaan nga ginaestaran sang mga tribo ni Reuben kag ni Gad.
Gin-ngalanan sang mga tribo ni Reuben kag ni Gad ang halaran nga “Padumdom,” kay siling nila, “Padumdom ini para sa aton tanan nga ang Ginoo Ginoo Dios naton naton .”
Kag karon, nabaton na sang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon ang kapahuwayan nga ginpromisa sa ila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Gani magpuli na kamo sa inyo mga lugar sa pihak sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, sa duta nga ginhatag sa inyo ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero indi gid ninyo pagkalimtan nga tumanon ang mga sugo kag mga pagpanudlo nga ginhatag sa inyo ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo . Higugmaa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, magkabuhi kamo sa iya mga pamaagi, tumana ang iya mga sugo, magmatutom sa iya, kag alagara siya sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag.”
Ginbendisyunan dayon sila ni Josue kag ginpapuli.
Sang manugpuli na sila, ginbendisyunan sila ni Josue
nga nagasiling, “Magpuli kamo nga dala ang inyo madamo nga manggad—mga kasapatan, pilak, bulawan, saway, salsalon kag mga bayo. Partihi ninyo ang inyo mga paryente sa inyo lugar sa inyo lugar sang bisan ano nga bisan ano nga inyo naagaw sa inyo mga kaaway.”
Kag dayon nagpuli ang mga katawhan sang tribo ni Reuben, ni Gad, kag sang katunga sang tribo ni Manase. Ginbayaan nila ang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon sa Shilo, sa duta sang Canaan, kag nagbalik sa Gilead, ang duta nga nangin parte nila suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises.
Sa malawig nga tion, ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kapahuwayan ang Israel sa ila mga kaaway sa palibot. Tigulang na gid si Josue,
Bisan sin-o sa inyo makatabog sang 1,000 ka tawo, tungod kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo ang nagapakig-away para sa inyo, suno sa iya ginpromisa.
Gani siguraduhon gid ninyo nga higugmaon ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Pero kon magtalikod kamo sa iya kag magpakig-isa sa mga nasyon nga nabilin sa tunga ninyo, kag magpangasawa ukon magpamana sa ila,
sigurado gid nga indi na pag-ipatabog sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang ini nga mga nasyon. Sa baylo, mangin delikado sila para sa inyo pareho sang siod, kag magahatag sila sang kasakit sa inyo pareho sang putik kon hanuton ka sa likod ukon tunok kon matuslok ang imo mata. Magapadayon ini hasta nga magkalamatay kamo sa sining maayo nga duta nga ginhatag sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
“Dali na lang ako mapatay. Nahibaluan ninyo sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag nga gintuman sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang tanan nga maayo nga mga butang nga iya ginpromisa sa inyo. Wala gid sing bisan isa nga wala natuman.
Pero subong nga gintuman sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang tanan nga maayo nga mga butang nga iya ginpromisa sa inyo, tumanon man niya ang kalaglagan nga iya ginpaandam sa inyo hasta nga malaglag niya kamo sa sining maayo nga duta nga ginhatag niya sa inyo.
Huo, matabo ini sa inyo Huo, matabo ini sa inyo kon maglapas kamo sa kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga ginsugo niya nga tumanon ninyo, kag kon magsimba kamo kag mag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios. Ipaagom gid niya sa inyo ang iya kaakig kag malaglag kamo gilayon sa sining maayo nga duta nga ginhatag niya sa inyo.”
gani ginpatawag niya ang tanan nga Israelinhon, pati ang ila mga manugdumala, pangulo, manughukom, kag opisyal. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Tigulang na gid ako.
Nakita ninyo mismo ang tanan nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa sadto nga mga nasyon tungod sa inyo. Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo ang nagpakig-away para sa inyo.
Ginpamartida ko na sa inyo bilang palanublion sang inyo mga tribo ang tanan nga kadutaan sang mga nasyon nga aton
Mangin inyo ang ila mga duta, suno sa ginpromisa sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Kay ipatabog sila sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Magpakabakod kamo, kag siguraduhon gid ninyo nga tumanon ang tanan nga nasulat sa Libro sang Kasuguan ni Moises. Indi gid ninyo ini paglapasa.
Indi kamo magpakigsimpon sa sini nga mga nasyon nga nabilin pa sa tunga ninyo, kag indi kamo magsambit sang ngalan sang ila mga dios ukon magpanumpa sa ngalan sini. Indi man kamo magsimba ukon mag-alagad sa ila,
kundi magmatutom kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, pareho sang inyo ginahimo hasta subong.
“Ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo ang dalagko kag gamhanan nga mga nasyon, kag hasta subong wala pa gid sing bisan isa nga nakapierdi sa inyo.
Karon, ginpatipon ni Josue ang tanan nga tribo sang Israel sa Shekem. Gintawag dayon niya ang mga manugdumala, mga pangulo, mga manughukom, kag mga opisyal sang Israel, kag nagpalapit sila sa presensya sang Dios.
Pero wala ko pagtuguti si Balaam nga himuon ini sa inyo. Sa baylo, ginbendisyunan kamo ni Balaam, kag ginluwas ko kamo sa kamot ni Balak.
“Dayon nagtabok kamo sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nakaabot sa Jerico. Nagpakig-away sa inyo ang mga taga-Jerico, subong man ang mga Amornon, Periznon, Canaanhon, Hithanon, Girgashnon, Hivhanon, kag Jebusnon. Pero ginpadaog ko kamo kontra sa ila.
Ginpadal-an ko sang mga putyukan ang duha ka hari nga Amornon sa pagtabog sa ila sa wala pa kamo mag-abot. Nagdaog kamo indi tungod sa inyo mga espada kag mga pana.
Ginhatagan ko kamo sang duta nga wala ninyo pagpangabudlayi. Ginpaestar ko kamo sa mga banwa nga indi kamo ang nagtukod. Nagakaon kamo subong sang mga ubas kag mga olibo nga indi kamo ang nagtanom.
“Gani karon, tahura ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo kag alagara nga may katutom. Isikway na ninyo ang mga dios nga ginasimba sadto sang inyo mga katigulangan sa tabok sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates kag sa Egypt, kag mag-alagad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero kon indi kamo luyag nga mag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo , magpili kamo subong nga adlaw kon sin-o ang inyo alagaron. Magaalagad bala kamo sa mga dios nga gin-alagad sang inyo mga katigulangan sa tabok sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates , ukon sa mga dios sang mga Amornon nga ang ila duta inyo ginaestaran subong? Pero ako ya kag ang akon pamilya magaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Wala gid sa amon hunahuna nga magbiya sa Ginoo Ginoo kag mag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios amo ang nagpaguwa sa aton kag sa aton mga katigulangan sa pagkaulipon didto sa Egypt. Nakita man naton ang mga milagro nga iya ginhimo. Ginprotektaran niya kita sa aton pagpanglakaton sa mga nasyon nga aton gin-agyan.
Kag ginpatabog niya sa aton ang mga Amornon kag ang iban pa nga mga nasyon nga nagaestar diri. Gani magaalagad man kami sa Ginoo Ginoo , kay siya ang amon Dios.”
Nagsiling si Josue sa mga tawo, “Indi kamo makaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay balaan siya nga Dios kag indi gid niya gusto nga may ginasimba kamo nga iban. Indi niya pag-ibaliwala ang inyo pagrebelde kag mga sala.
Nagsiling si Josue sa tanan nga tawo, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: Sang una ang inyo mga katigulangan nag-estar sa tabok sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates kag nagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Isa sa ila amo si Tera nga amay ni Abraham kag ni Nahor.
Kon isikway ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo kag mag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios, mangakig siya sa inyo kag silutan niya kamo. Laglagon niya kamo bisan nga halin sang una maayo siya sa inyo.”
Pero nagsabat ang mga tawo kay Josue, “Magaalagad gid kami sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling si Josue, “Kamo mismo ang mga saksi sa inyo kaugalingon nga ginpili ninyo nga alagaron ang Ginoo Ginoo .” Nagsabat sila, “Huo, mga saksi kami.”
Dayon nagsiling si Josue, “Kon amo sina, isikway na ninyo ang inyo mga dios kag alagaran ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.”
Nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Alagaran namon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, kag tumanon ang iya mga sugo.”
Sadto nga adlaw naghimo si Josue sang kasugtanan sa mga tawo didto sa Shekem, kag ginhatag niya sa ila ang mga kasuguan kag mga pagsulundan.
Ginsulat ini ni Josue sa Libro sang Kasuguan sang Dios. Dayon nagkuha siya sang dako nga bato kag ginpatindog sa puno sang kahoy nga terebinto malapit sa balaan nga lugar sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag nagsiling si Josue sa tanan nga tawo, “Ini nga bato amo ang aton saksi nga nagpakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton. Magapamatuod ini kontra sa inyo kon indi kamo magtuman sang inyo ginhambal sa inyo Dios.”
Pagkatapos ginpapuli ni Josue ang mga tawo sa ila tagsa ka lugar nga ginhatag sa ila.
Sang ulihi napatay ang alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo nga si Josue, nga anak ni Nun, sa edad nga 110.
Pero ginkuha ko si Abraham sa sadto nga lugar kag ginpakadto sa kadutaan sang Canaan, kag ginhatagan sang madamo nga kaliwat. Nangin anak niya si Isaac,
Ginlubong siya sa iya duta didto sa Timnat Sera, sa kabukiran sang Efraim, sa north sang Bukid sang Gaash.
Nag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon samtang buhi pa si Josue. Kag bisan sang patay na si Josue, nagpadayon gihapon sila sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo samtang buhi pa ang mga manugdumala sang mga Israelinhon sang mga Israelinhon nga nakaeksperiensya sang tanan nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo para sa Israel.
Ang mga tul-an ni Jose nga gindala sang mga Israelinhon halin sa Egypt ginlubong sa Shekem, sa duta nga ginbakal ni Jacob sing 100 ka bilog nga pilak sa mga anak ni Hamor nga amay ni Shekem. Ang ini nga duta parte sang teritoryo nga ginhatag sa mga kaliwat ni Jose.
Napatay man si Eleazar nga anak ni Aaron kag ginlubong sa Gibea, ang banwa sa kabukiran sang Efraim, nga ginhatag sa anak ni Eleazar nga si Finehas.
kag nangin anak naman ni Isaac si Esau kag si Jacob. Ginhatag ko kay Esau ang kabukiran sang Seir bilang iya parte, samtang si Jacob kag ang iya nga anak nagkadto sa Egypt.
Nagpangayo kamo sang bulig sa akon, kag ginbutangan ko sang kadulom sa tunga ninyo kag sang mga Egyptohanon. Kag dayon ginlumos ko ang mga Egyptohanon sa dagat. Nakita gid ninyo mismo ang ginhimo ko sa mga Egyptohanon. Dayon nag-estar kamo sa kamingawan sa malawig nga tion.
“Pagkatapos gindala ko kamo sa duta sang mga Amornon sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Nagpakig-away sila sa inyo, pero ginpadaog ko kamo. Ginpalaglag ko sila sa inyo kag nasakop ninyo ang ila kadutaan.
Dayon nagpakig-away sa Israel ang hari sang Moab nga si Balak nga anak ni Zipor. Ginsugo niya si Balaam nga anak ni Beor nga pakamalauton kamo.
Sa tapos mapatay si Josue, nagpamangkot ang mga Israelinhon sa Ginoo Ginoo kon sin-o sa ila mga tribo ang una nga magpakig-away sa mga Canaanhon.
Ginsalakay man nila ang mga Canaanhon nga nagaestar sa Hebron (nga sang una ginatawag nga Kiriat Arba), kag ginpamatay nila si Sheshai, si Ahiman, kag si Talmai.
Halin sa Hebron, ginsalakay pa gid nila ang mga nagaestar sa Debir (nga sang una ginatawag nga Kiriat Sefer).
Si Otniel nga anak ni Kenaz nga manghod ni Caleb amo ang nakaagaw sang banwa. Gani ginpaasawa ni Caleb sa iya ang iya anak nga si Acsa.
Sang makasal na sila, ginkombinsi ni Acsa ang iya bana nga magpangayo sila sang dugang nga dugang nga duta sa iya amay. Dayon nagkadto si Acsa kay Caleb, Dayon nagkadto si Acsa kay Caleb, kag sang nagapanaog na siya sa iya donkey, ginpamangkot siya ni Caleb kon ano ang iya kinahanglan.
Paghalin sang mga kaliwat ni Juda sa banwa sang Jerico,
Dayon ang tribo naman ni Simeon ang ginbuligan sang tribo ni Juda sa pagsakop sang banwa sang Zefat nga ginaestaran man sang mga Canaanhon. Ginlaglag nila sing bug-os
Nasakop man nila ang Gaza, Ashkelon, kag Ekron, pati ang ila sini mga teritoryo sa palibot sa palibot .
Ginbuligan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tribo ni tribo ni Juda. Nasakop nila ang mga kabukiran, pero indi nila matabog ang mga tawo nga nagaestar sa mga kapatagan tungod kay ini nga mga tawo may mga karwahe nga salsalon.
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ang tribo ni tribo ni Juda, kay ginatugyan ko sa ila ang amo nga duta.”
Kag suno sa ginpromisa ni Moises, ang Hebron ginhatag kay Caleb. Gintabog ni Caleb sa sini nga lugar ang tatlo ka pamilya nga pamilya nga mga kaliwat ni Anak.
Pero indi matabog sang mga kaliwat ni Benjamin ang mga Jebusnon nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem. Gani hasta subong padayon nga nagaestar ang mga Jebusnon sa Jerusalem upod sa mga kaliwat ni Benjamin.
may nakita ang mga espiya nga isa ka tawo nga nagapaguwa halin sa amo nga banwa. Nagsiling sila sa iya, “Tudlui kami kon paano makasulod sa banwa kag indi ka namon pag-anhon.”
Gani gintudluan niya sila. Kag ginpamatay nila ang tanan nga nagaestar sa sina nga banwa. Pero wala nila pag-anha ang tawo nga nagtudlo sa ila nga nagtudlo sa ila kag ang bilog niya nga panimalay.
Ang ini nga tawo nagkadto sa duta sang mga Hithanon, kag didto nagtukod siya sang isa ka banwa nga gintawag niya nga Luz. Amo man gihapon ang ngalan sini hasta subong.
Sang naggamhanan na ang mga Israelinhon, ginpuwersa nila ang mga Canaanhon nga magtrabaho para sa ila para sa ila , pero wala nila sila pagtabuga.
Wala man matabog sang tribo ni tribo ni Efraim ang mga pumuluyo sang Gezer. Gani ini nga mga Canaanhon padayon nga nagaestar kaupod nila.
Gani nagsiling ang tribo ni tribo ni Juda sa tribo ni tribo ni Simeon nga ila kadugo, “Buligi ninyo kami sa pagsakop sang lugar sang mga Canaanhon nga para sa amon, kay buligan man namon kamo sa pagsakop sang lugar nga para sa inyo.” Gani nag-upod ang tribo ni tribo ni Simeon sa tribo ni tribo ni Juda sa pagpakig-away sa pagpakig-away .
Wala man matabog sang tribo ni tribo ni Zebulun ang mga pumuluyo sang Kitron kag Nahalol. Gani ini nga mga Canaanhon padayon nga nagaestar kaupod nila. Pero ginpuwersa sila nga magtrabaho para sa ila para sa ila .
Wala man matabog sang tribo ni tribo ni Asher ang mga pumuluyo sang Acco, Sidon, Alab, Aczib, Helba, Afik, kag Rehob.
Gani padayon nga nagaestar ang katawhan ni Asher kaupod sa mga Canaanhon kay wala nila ini matabog.
Wala man matabog sang tribo ni tribo ni Naftali ang mga pumuluyo sang Bet Shemesh kag Bet Anat. Gani ini nga mga Canaanhon padayon nga nagaestar kaupod nila. Pero ginpuwersa sila nga magtrabaho para sa ila.
Kon parte sa kaliwat ni Dan, wala sila pagtuguti sang mga Amornon nga mag-estar sa kapatagan, gani didto lang sila nagpabilin sa kabukiran.
Determinado ang mga Amornon nga indi maghalin sa Bukid sang Heres, Ayalon, kag Shaalbim. Pero sang naggamhanan ang mga tribo ni Jose, ginpuwersa sila nga magtrabaho para sa ila para sa ila .
Ang border sang duta sang mga Amornon nagahalin sa Taklaran sang Akrabim pakadto sa unhan pa sang Sela.
Nagpalagyo si Adoni Bezek, pero ginlagas siya sang mga Israelinhon kag nadakpan siya. Gin-utod nila ang iya mga kumalagko sa kamot kag sa tiil.
Nagsiling si Adoni Bezek, “70 ka hari ang ginpang-utdan ko sang kumalagko sa kamot kag sa tiil kag namulot sila sang usik sa idalom sang akon lamisa. Kag karon ginhimo man sang Dios sa akon ang ginhimo ko sa ila.” Dayon gindala nila si Adoni Bezek sa Jerusalem, kag didto siya napatay.
Ginsalakay sang mga kaliwat ni Juda ang Jerusalem kag naagaw nila ini. Ginpamatay nila ang mga pumuluyo sini kag ginsunog ang siyudad.
Pagkatapos sadto, ginsalakay nila ang mga Canaanhon nga nagaestar sa mga kabukiran, sa Negev, kag sa mga bulobukid sa west.
Nagkadto ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Bokim halin sa Gilgal. Kag nagsiling siya sa mga Israelinhon sa mga Israelinhon , “Ginpaguwa ko kamo sa Egypt kag gindala sa sini nga sini nga duta nga ginpromisa ko sa inyo mga katigulangan. Nagsiling ako sadto nga indi ko paggub-on ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo.
Sang nagkalamatay ang mga tawo sa sina nga henerasyon, nagbulos ang sunod nga henerasyon nga wala nakakilala sa Ginoo Ginoo kag wala sing may nahibaluan kon ano ang ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo para sa Israel.
Naghimo sing malain ang mga Israelinhon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsimba sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal.
Ginsikway nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan, nga amo ang nagpaguwa sa ila sa Egypt. Ginsunod nila kag ginsimba ang nagkalain-lain nga dios sang mga tawo sa palibot nila. Ginpaakig nila ang Ginoo Ginoo ,
kay ginsikway nila siya kag nag-alagad kay Baal kag kay Ashtoret.
Tungod sa kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel, ginpabay-an niya sila nga salakayon sang mga tulisan para kuhaon ang ila mga pagkabutang. Ginpabay-an man sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mapierdi sang ila mga kaaway sa palibot nga indi na nila masarangan nga tapnaon.
Kon magpakig-away sila, ginapapierdi sila sang Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa ginsiling niya. Gani puwerte gid ang ila kalisod.
Karon, ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Israel sang mga pangulo nga magluwas sa ila sa mga tulisan nga nagasalakay sa ila.
Pero wala sila magsapak sa ila mga pangulo. Sa baylo, nagtalikod sila sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Indi sila pareho sa ila mga katigulangan tungod kay kadali lang sa ila magtalikod sa mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga gintuman sadto sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ang tanan nga pangulo nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila ginbuligan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag samtang buhi ang ila pangulo ginluwas sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila mga kaaway. Kay naluoy siya sa ila tungod sa ila mga pag-antos sa mga nagahingabot kag nagahalit sa ila.
Pero kon mapatay na gani ang pangulo, nagabalik naman sila sa ila daan nga pagginawi nga amo ang pag-alagad kag pagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Sobra pa ang ila pagpakasala sang sa ginhimo sang ila mga katigulangan. Indi nila gusto nga bayaan ang ila malain nga mga ginahimo kag ang pagkatig-a sang ila mga ulo.
Nagsiling man ako nga indi kamo maghimo sang kasugtanan sa mga tawo sang sini nga duta kundi gub-on ninyo ang ila mga halaran. Pero ano ang inyo ginhimo? Wala ninyo ako pagtumana!
Gani nangakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila. Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Tungod nga ginlapas sini nga nasyon ang akon kasugtanan sa ila mga katigulangan, kag wala sila magtuman sa akon,
indi ko pag-ipatabog sa ila ang nabilin nga mga katawhan nga wala masakop ni Josue antes siya napatay.
Gamiton ko ini nga mga katawhan para testingan ang mga Israelinhon kon bala tumanon nila ang akon mga sugo, pareho sang ila mga katigulangan.”
Amo ina kon ngaa wala pagtabuga dayon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang nabilin nga mga katawhan kag wala niya pagtuguti nga pierdihon sila ni Josue.
Gani karon, indi ko sila pagtabugon sa inyo duta. Mangin pareho sila sang tunok sang tunok sa inyo alagyan kag ang ila mga dios mangin dako nga temtasyon sa inyo.”
Sang mabatian sang mga Israelinhon ang ginhambal sang anghel, naghibi sila sing tudo.
Gani gintawag nila ato nga lugar nga Bokim.
Sang ginpalakat na ni Josue ang mga Israelinhon, gin-angkon nila ang duta nga para sa kada isa sa ila.
Nag-alagad sila sa Ginoo Ginoo samtang buhi pa si Josue. Kag bisan sang patay na si Josue, nagpadayon gihapon sila sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo samtang buhi pa ang mga manugdumala sang Israel sang Israel nga nakakita sang tanan nga makatilingala nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo para sa Israel.
Napatay si Josue nga anak ni Nun kag alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo sa edad nga 110 ka tuig.
Ginlubong siya sa iya duta didto sa Timnat Heres, sa kabukiran sang Efraim, sa north sang Bukid sang Gaash.
Ginbilin sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iban nga mga katawhan sa Canaan para testingan ang mga Israelinhon nga wala makaagi pakig-away sa Canaan.
Gin-gamhan siya sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginpanguluhan niya ang Israel. Nagpakig-away siya kay Haring Cushan Rishataim sang Aram, kag ginpadaog siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani may kalinong sa Israel sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig. Kag dayon napatay si Otniel.
Naghimo liwat sing malain ang mga Israelinhon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Tungod sini, ginpasakop sila sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Haring Eglon sang Moab.
Sa bulig sang mga Ammonhon kag Amaleknon, ginsalakay kag ginpierdi ni Eglon ang Israel kag gin-agaw ang banwa sang Jerico.
Ginsakop sila ni Eglon sa sulod sang 18 ka tuig.
Nagpangayo liwat sang bulig ang mga Israelinhon sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginhatagan niya sila sang isa ka tawo nga magluwas sa ila. Siya amo ang walis nga si Ehud nga anak ni Gera nga halin sa tribo ni Benjamin. Ginpadala siya sang mga Israelinhon kay Haring Eglon sang Moab sa paghatag sang buhis sang Israel.
Antes siya naglakat, Antes siya naglakat, naghimo siya sang isa ka sundang nga duha ang sulab nga mga tunga sa metro ang kalabaon. Ginhigot niya ini sa iya tuo nga paa, nga natabunan sang iya bayo.
Sang didto na siya, Sang didto na siya, ginhatag niya ang buhis kay Haring Eglon nga matambok gid nga tawo.
Pagkatapos nga nahatag ni Ehud ang buhis, ginpapuli niya ang mga kaupod niya nga nagdala sang buhis.
Nag-upod siya sa ila sang premiro, Nag-upod siya sa ila sang premiro, pero pag-abot nila sa tinigban nga mga bato malapit sa Gilgal, nagbalik si Ehud sa hari kag nagsiling, “Mahal nga Hari, may sekreto ako nga isugid sa imo.” Gani nagsiling ang hari sa iya mga suluguon, “Bayai ninyo anay kami.” Kag naghalin ang tanan niya nga suluguon.
Ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo para matudluan nga magpakig-away ang mga kaliwat sang mga Israelinhon nga wala pa makaagi sini.
Dayon nagpalapit si Ehud sa hari nga nagapungko sa mabugnaw niya nga kuwarto sa ibabaw. Nagsiling si Ehud, “May mensahi ako sa imo halin sa Dios.” Sang nagtindog ang hari sa iya trono,
gin-gabot ni Ehud sang iya wala nga kamot ang sundang nga ara sa iya tuo nga paa, kag ginbuno niya ang hari sa tiyan,
kag naglapos sa iya likod. Kag tungod kay matambok ang hari nagsalop pati ang pulo sang sundang. Gani wala na niya paggabuta.
Dayon nagguwa si Ehud sa kuwarto kag ginkandaduhan niya ang mga puwertahan.
Sang nakahalin na siya, nagbalik ang mga suluguon sang hari sang hari kag nakita nila nga sirado ang mga puwertahan. Abi nila sa kasilyas lang ang hari.
Naghulat-hulat sila sa guwa sa guwa . Pero sang ulihi indi na sila mapahamtang kay wala gihapon gin-abrihan sang hari ang mga puwertahan. Gani ginkuha na lang nila ang yabi kag gin-abrihan ini ini , kag nakita nila ang ila hari nga nagahamyang sa salog nga patay na.
Sang sadto nga oras nga nagahulat-hulat ang mga suluguon sa pag-abri sang mga puwertahan sa pag-abri sang mga puwertahan , si Ehud nakapalagyo na. Naglabay siya sa tinigban nga mga bato kag nagkadto sa Seira.
Pag-abot niya didto didto , nagpatunog siya sang budyong sa kabukiran sang Efraim, kag nagdulhog ang mga Israelinhon halin sa kabukiran nga ginapanguluhan ni Ehud.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Sunod kamo sa akon kay ipapierdi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton ang mga Moabnon nga aton mga kaaway.” Gani nagsunod sila sa iya kag ginsakop nila ang lugar nga talabukan sang mga Moabnon sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Wala sila sing may ginpatabok bisan isa lang ka tawo.
Sa sina nga adlaw nakapatay sila sang mga 10,000 ka Moabnon nga puro makusog kag maisog. Kag wala gid sing may nakapalagyo bisan isa sa ila.
Amo ini ang mga katawhan nga ginbilin sang Ginoo : Amo ini ang mga katawhan nga ginbilin sang Ginoo Ginoo : ang mga pumuluyo sang lima ka banwa sang mga Filistinhon, ang tanan nga Canaanhon, ang mga Sidonhon, kag ang mga Hivhanon nga nagaestar sa mga bukid sang Lebanon, halin sa Bukid sang Baal Hermon hasta sa Lebo Hamat.
Gani ginsakop sang Israel ang Moab sa sina nga adlaw, kag halin sadto nangin malinong ang Israel sa sulod sang 80 ka tuig.
Ang nagsunod kay Ehud bilang pangulo bilang pangulo amo si Shamgar nga anak ni Anat. Ginluwas niya ang Israel sa mga Filistinhon. Mga 600 ka Filistinhon ang iya ginpamatay paagi sa sungkod nga ginagamit sa pagtabog sang baka.
Ginbilin sila para testingan kon bala tumanon sang mga Israelinhon ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginhatag niya sa ila mga katigulangan paagi kay Moises.
Gani nag-estar ang mga Israelinhon upod sa mga Canaanhon, Hithanon, Amornon, Periznon, Hivhanon, kag mga Jebusnon.
Gintugutan sang mga Israelinhon ang ila mga anak nga magpangasawa kag magpamana sa sina nga mga tawo, kag nagsimba sila sa ila mga dios.
Naghimo sing malain ang mga Israelinhon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay ginkalimtan nila ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios kag nagsimba sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal kag ni ni Ashera.
Tungod sini, nangakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila, gani ginpabay-an sila nga mapierdi ni Haring Cushan Rishataim sang Aram Naharaim.
Pero sang nagpangayo sang bulig ang mga Israelinhon sa Ginoo Ginoo , ginhatagan niya sila sang isa ka tawo nga magluwas sa ila. Siya amo si Otniel nga anak ni Kenaz nga manghod ni Caleb.
Sang napatay si Ehud, naghimo liwat sing malain ang mga Israelinhon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Didto Didto ginpatawag ni Barak ang mga tribo ni Naftali kag ni Zebulun, kag 10,000 ka tawo ang nag-upod sa iya. Nag-upod man sa iya si Debora.
Sang sadto nga tion, si Heber nga Kenhanon nagpatindog sang iya tolda malapit sa dako nga kahoy sa Zaananim malapit sa Kedesh. Nagbulag siya sa iban nga mga Kenhanon nga mga kaliwat ni Hobab nga bayaw
Karon, ginsugiran si Sisera nga si Barak nagkadto sa Bukid sang Tabor.
Gani gintipon ni Sisera ang 900 niya ka karwahe nga salsalon, kag ang tanan niya nga soldado. Kag naglakat sila halin sa Haroshet Hagoyim pakadto sa Kishon nga ililigan sang tubig.
Nagsiling si Debora kay Barak, “Lakat, kay amo na ini nga adlaw nga padag-on ka sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra kay Sisera. Pangunahan ka gid sang Ginoo Ginoo .” Gani nagdulhog si Barak sa Bukid sang Tabor upod sang iya 10,000 ka soldado.
Sang nagsalakay na sila ni Barak, ginpasala-sala sang Ginoo Ginoo si Sisera kag ang tanan niya nga mga manugkarwahe kag mga soldado. Dayon naglumpat si Sisera sa iya karwahe kag nagdalagan sa pagpalagyo.
Ginlagas ni Barak ang mga soldado ni Sisera pati ang iya mga manugkarwahe hasta sa Haroshet Hagoyim kag ginpamatay sila tanan. Wala gid sing bisan isa sa ila sa ila nga nabilin.
Si Sisera ya nagpalagyo pakadto sa tolda ni Jael nga asawa ni Heber, tungod kay amigohay si Haring Jabin sang Hazor kag ang pamilya ni Heber nga Kenhanon.
Ginsugata ni Jael si Sisera kag ginsilingan, “Dali, sir, sulod ka sa akon tolda, kag indi ka magkahadlok.” Gani nagsulod si Sisera kag gintabunan siya ni Jael sang habol.
Nagsiling si Sisera kay Jael, “Palihog hatagi ako sang tubig. Nauhaw gid ako.” Gani gin-abrihan ni Jael ang panit nga suludlan sang gatas kag ginpainom si Sisera, kag pagkatapos gintabunan niya siya liwat.
Gani ginpasakop naman sila sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Haring Jabin sang Hazor, nga isa ka hari sang mga Canaanhon. Ang pangulo sang mga soldado ni Jabin amo si Sisera nga nagaestar sa Haroshet Hagoyim.
Nagsiling si Sisera, “Tindog ka lang sa may puwertahan sang tolda kag kon may mag-abot kag magpamangkot kon may iban nga tawo diri silingon mo nga wala.”
Tungod sa puwerte nga kakapoy ni Sisera, natulugan siya sing mahamuok. Sang makita ni Jael nga natulugan na si Sisera, nagkuha siya sang martilyo kag palpal sang tolda kag naghinay-hinay palapit kay Sisera. Dayon ginpalpalan niya ang dungandungan
Sang pag-abot ni Barak nga nagapangita kay Sisera, ginsugata siya ni Jael, kag ginsilingan, “Dali, ipakita ko sa imo ang tawo nga ginapangita mo.” Gani nag-upod si Barak kay Jael sa sulod sang tolda. Kag didto nakita niya si Sisera nga nagahamyang nga patay na, nga may palpal nga naglapos sa iya dungandungan.
Sadto nga adlaw, ginpadaog sang Dios ang mga Israelinhon kontra kay Haring Jabin nga Canaanhon.
Padayon ang ila pagkontra kay Jabin hasta nga napatay gid nila siya.
May 900 ka karwahe nga salsalon si Jabin. Kag puwerte gid ang pagpamigos niya sa mga Israelinhon sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig. Gani nagpangayo liwat liwat sang bulig ang mga Israelinhon sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sadto nga panahon, ang pangulo sang Israel amo si Debora. Isa siya ka propeta sang Dios sang Dios kag asawa ni Lapidot.
Kon magpahusay gani ang mga Israelinhon sang ila mga kaso kay Debora, nagakadto sila sa iya didto sa idalom sang Palma ni Debora, sa tunga-tunga sang Rama kag Betel sa kabukiran sang Efraim.
Isa ka adlaw, Isa ka adlaw, ginpatawag ni Debora si Barak nga anak ni Abinoam nga taga-Kedesh nga sakop sang tribo ni nga sakop sang tribo ni Naftali. Pag-abot ni Barak, Pag-abot ni Barak, nagsiling si Debora sa iya, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nagasugo sa imo nga magkuha ka sang 10,000 ka lalaki sa mga tribo ni Naftali kag ni Zebulun kag dal-a sila sa Bukid sang Tabor.
Ganyaton ko si Sisera, ang pangulo sang mga soldado ni Jabin, nga magkadto sa Kishon nga ililigan sang tubig kaupod ang iya mga soldado kag mga karwahe. Kag didto padag-on ko kamo kontra sa ila.”
Nagsiling si Barak kay Debora, “Malakat ako kon mag-upod ka; pero kon indi ka mag-upod, indi ako maglakat.”
Nagsabat si Debora, “Sige, maupod ako sa imo; pero ang dungog indi sa imo tungod kay ipapierdi sang Ginoo Ginoo si Sisera sa isa ka babayi.” Gani nag-upod si Debora kay Barak kag nagkadto sila sa Kedesh.
Sadto nga adlaw, nagkanta si Debora kag si Barak nga anak ni Abinoam. Amo ini ang ila kanta:
sa may puwertahan sang banwa nga nagasiling nga nagasiling ,
kag bihaga ang imo mga bilihagon.’
sa pagsalakay sa dungganon kag gamhanan nga mga tawo.
kag sang tribo ni tribo ni Zebulun.
kon maupod sila ukon indi.
gani indi kamo makadesisyon kon maupod kamo ukon indi.
Ang tribo ya ni tribo ya ni Asher nagpabilin sa ila ginaestaran malapit sa dagat.
Pero gintaya sang tribo ni Zebulun kag ni Naftali ang ila kabuhi sa pagpakig-away.
pero bisan isa lang ka pilak wala sila sing may naagaw.
kag kinabubut-on nga nagsunod sa ila ang mga tawo.
kundi pati man ang mga bituon.
Magapadayon ako sa pagpakig-away nga may kabaskog.
Kag karon mabatian ang paglinagapak sang tiil sang mga kabayo.
sa gamhanan nga mga tawo.’
sa tanan nga babayi nga nagaestar sa mga tolda.
gatas ang iya ginhatag nga nabutang sa malahalon nga suludlan.
kag ginpalpalan ang ulo ni Sisera, sa iya dungandungan.
Kag napatay si Sisera nga nagahamyang sa tiilan ni Jael.
kon ngaa wala pa mag-abot ang iya karwahe.
kag amo man gani ang iya ginaliwat-liwat sa iya kaugalingon:
ang Dios sang Israel!
kag matahom nga mga bayo nga ginbordahan sing maayo para sa akon.’
Kag may kalinong sa Israel sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
naglinog kag nag-ulan sing tudo.
nga nagpahayag sang imo kaugalingon sa Bukid sang Bukid sang Sinai.
Ang mga nagabiyahe didto nagaagi sa hilit-hilit nga mga alagyan.
ikaw nga ginakilala nga ginakilala nga iloy sang Israel.
wala sing bisan isa sa ila nga may taming ukon bangkaw.
Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo !
Naghimo liwat liwat sing malain ang mga Israelinhon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ginpasakop sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Midianhon sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.
Nagsiling ako sa inyo nga ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag dapat indi kamo magsimba sa mga dios sang mga Amornon nga ang ila lugar amo ang inyo ginaestaran subong. Pero wala kamo nagpamati sa akon.’ ”
Karon, nag-abot ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Ofra. Nagpungko siya didto sa puno sang kahoy nga terebinto nga iya ni Joash nga kaliwat ni Abiezer. Si Gideon nga anak ni Joash nagalinas sadto sang trigo sa may pulugaan sang ubas para indi makita sang mga Midianhon ang trigo.
Nagpakita sa iya ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo kaupod mo, maisog kag makusog nga tawo.”
Nagsabat si Gideon, “Sir, kon ang Ginoo Ginoo kaupod namon, ngaa amo ini ang amon kahimtangan? Ngaa wala siya nagahimo sang mga milagro pareho sang iya ginhimo sadto sang ginpaguwa niya sa Egypt ang amon mga katigulangan, suno sa ginsugid nila sa amon? Pero karon ginpabay-an na kami sang Ginoo Ginoo kag gintugyan sa mga Midianhon.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gideon, “Lakat, kag gamita ang bug-os mo nga kusog sa pagluwas sa Israel sa mga Midianhon. Ako gid ang nagapadala sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Gideon, “Pero, Ginoo, paano ko maluwas ang Israel, kay ang amon pamilya amo ang pinakapigaw sa tribo ni Manase kag ako pa gid ang labing kubos sa amon pamilya.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Buligan ko ikaw, kag laglagon mo ang mga Midianhon nga daw sa nagpakig-away ka lang sa isa ka tawo.”
Nagsiling si Gideon, “Kon nalipay ka sa akon, hatagi ako sang tanda nga ikaw gid matuod ang nagasugo sa akon.
Indi ka anay maghalin kay makuha ako sang akon ihalad sa imo.” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Hulaton ko ikaw.”
Nagpuli si Gideon kag nagluto sang isa ka bataon nga kanding, kag naghimo siya sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok halin sa mga tunga sa sako nga harina. Pagkatapos niya butang sang karne sa basket kag sang sabaw sini sa kaldero, gindala niya ang pagkaon sa anghel didto sa puno sang kahoy nga terebinto.
Tama kapintas sang mga Midianhon, gani napilitan ang mga Israelinhon nga magpanago sa mga bukid, sa mga kuweba, kag sa iban pa nga mga tago nga lugar.
Nagsiling sa iya ang anghel sang Dios, “Itungtong ang karne kag tinapay sa sini nga bato, kag bubui sang sabaw.” Gintuman ini ni Gideon.
Dayon gintandog sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pagkaon paagi sa punta sang baston nga iya ginauyatan. Gulpi lang nga nagkalayo halin sa bato, kag ginlamon sang kalayo ang karne kag ang tinapay. Dayon nadula ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang mareyalisar ni Gideon nga ang iya nakita anghel gid man sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagsiling siya, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , nakita ko ang imo anghel kag nag-atubangay gid kami.”
Pero ginsilingan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magpakalinong ka. Indi ka magkahadlok. Indi ka mapatay.”
Nagpatindog didto si Gideon sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag gintawag niya ini nga “Nagahatag sang Kalinong ang Ginoo Ginoo .” Kag hasta subong ara pa ini nga halaran didto sa Ofra, sa lugar sang mga kaliwat ni Abiezer.
Sadto man nga gab-i nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gideon, “Kuhaa ang ikaduha sa pinakamaayo nga turo nga baka sang imo amay, atong pito na ka tuig. Dayon gub-a ang halaran ni Baal nga ginpatindog sang imo amay kag gub-a man ang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera nga ara sa tupad sang halaran.
Pagkatapos magpatindog ka sang husto nga halaran para sa akon, ang akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, sa ibabaw sang sini nga bulobukid. Dayon ihalad mo sa akon sa akon ang turo bilang halad nga ginasunog. Kag gamita nga gatong ang hulohaligi ni hulohaligi ni Ashera nga imo ginpang-utod.”
Gani gin-upod ni Gideon ang napulo niya ka suluguon kag ginhimo niya ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya. Pero ginhimo niya ini sang gab-i tungod kay nahadlok siya sa iya pamilya kag sa iya mga kasimanwa.
Pagkaaga, nabugtawan sang mga tawo nga guba na ang halaran ni Baal, kag utod-utod na ang hulohaligi ni hulohaligi ni Ashera kag amo na ang ginagatong sa baka nga ginahalad sa bag-o nga halaran.
Nagpinamangkutanay sila kon sin-o ang naghimo sadto. Gin-usisa nila ini kag nahibaluan nila nga si Gideon nga anak ni Joash ang naghimo sadto.
Kon magpananom na gani ang mga Israelinhon, ginasalakay dayon sila sang mga Midianhon, Amaleknon, kag sang iban pa nga mga katawhan sa east.
Gani ginsilingan nila si Joash, “Paguwaa diri ang imo anak! Kay patyon namon siya, tungod kay gin-guba niya ang halaran ni Baal kag ginpang-utod ang hulohaligi ni hulohaligi ni Ashera sa tupad sini.”
Nagsabat si Joash sa akig nga mga tawo nga nagapalibot sa iya, “Nagapakigbais bala kamo para kay Baal? Ginaapinan gid bala ninyo siya? Ang nagaapin kay Baal amo ang dapat patyon sa sini nga aga. Kon si Baal matuod gid nga Dios, dapat depensahan niya ang iya kaugalingon sa nagguba sang iya halaran.”
Halin sadto gintawag si Gideon nga “Jerubaal” nga ang buot silingon, “Pabay-i nga depensahan ni Baal ang iya kaugalingon,” tungod kay gin-guba niya ang halaran ni Baal.
Karon nag-isa ang mga Midianhon, Amaleknon, kag iban pa nga mga katawhan sa east sa pagkontra sa Israel sa pagkontra sa Israel . Nagtabok sila sa Suba sang Jordan sa Suba sang Jordan kag nagkampo sa Kapatagan sang Jezreel.
Gin-gamhan si Gideon sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginpatunog niya ang budyong sa pagpanawag sa mga kaliwat ni Abiezer sa pagsunod sa iya.
Nagpadala siya sang mga mensahero sa bilog nga tribo ni tribo ni Manase, kag pati sa mga tribo ni mga tribo ni Asher, Zebulun kag Naftali, sa pagtawag sa ila nga mag-upod sa pagpakig-away. Kag nag-upod sila kay Gideon.
Nagsiling si Gideon sa Dios, “Nagsiling ka nga gamiton mo ako sa pagluwas sa Israel.
Karon mabutang ako sang bulbol sang karnero sa duta nga ginalinasan namon sang trigo. Kon mabasa gani ini sang tun-og bisan mamala ang duta, mahibaluan ko nga ako gid man ang gamiton mo nga magluwas sa Israel suno sa ginhambal mo.”
Kag amo gid man ang natabo. Kay sang sunod nga adlaw, aga pa gid nagbugtaw si Gideon kag ginkuha niya ang bulbol sang karnero kag ginpuga, kag napuno gid ang isa ka yahong.
Dayon nagsiling si Gideon sa Dios, “Indi ka lang mangakig sa akon; may isa na lang ako nga ipangabay sa imo. Tuguti nga mapamatud-an ko liwat paagi sa bulbol. Gusto ko nga magmala naman ini nga bulbol sang karnero kag mabasa sang tun-og ang duta sa palibot sini.”
Ini sila nagakampo sa lugar sang mga Israelinhon, kag ginapamierdi nila ang mga tanom sang mga Israelinhon hasta sa Gaza. Ginapanguha nila ang tanan nga karnero, baka, kag donkey, kag wala gid sila sing may ginabilin para sa mga Israelinhon.
Pagkagab-i, ginhimo ato sang Dios. Nagmala ang bulbol sang karnero pero nabasa sang tun-og ang duta sa palibot sini.
Nagasalakay sila nga dala ang ila mga tolda kag mga kasapatan nga daw pareho kadamo sa mga apan. Indi gid maisip ang kadamuon nila pati ang ila mga camel. Nagaabot sila sa paglaglag sa duta sang mga Israelinhon sang mga Israelinhon .
Nangin makaluluoy ang kahimtangan sang mga Israelinhon tungod sang mga Midianhon, gani nagpangayo sila sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang pagpanawag nila sa Ginoo Ginoo ,
ginpadal-an sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang propeta nga nagsiling sa ila, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: ‘Ginpaguwa ko kamo sa Egypt nga sa diin gin-ulipon kamo.
Ginluwas ko kamo sa mga Egyptohanon kag sa tanan nga nagapaantos sa inyo. Ginpatabog ko sa inyo ang inyo mga kaaway kag ginhatag ko sa inyo ang ila mga duta.
Sang kaagahon pa gid, naglakat naglakat si Jerubaal (nga amo man si Gideon) upod sang iya mga tinawo. Nagkampo sila sa may tuburan sang Harod. Ang mga Midianhon nagakampo sa north nila sa kapatagan nga malapit sa Bukid sang More.
Pero kon nahadlok ka nga magsalakay subong, upda ang imo suluguon nga si Pura kag magkadto kamo didto,
kag pamatian ninyo kon ano ang ila ginahambal. Sigurado gid nga mangisog ka nga magsalakay sa imo mabatian.” Gani naglakat sila nga duha sa border sang kampo sang mga Midianhon sang mga Midianhon , nga sa diin may mga soldado nga nagaguwardya.
Ang mga Midianhon, kaupod ang mga Amaleknon kag iban pa nga mga katawhan sa east, nagakampo didto sa kapatagan nga daw pareho kadamo sa apan. Kag ang ila mga camel daw pareho kadamo sa balas sa baybayon nga indi maisip.
Sang didto na sila ni Gideon, may nabatian sila nga duha ka tawo nga nagaestoryahanay. Nagsiling ang isa, “Nagdamgo ako nga may isa ka tinapay nga barley nga bilog nga nagligid pakadto sa aton kampo kag naigo ang isa ka tolda. Dayon natumba ini kag nawasak.”
Nagsabat ang isa, “Ina wala na sing iban pa kundi ang espada ni Gideon nga Israelinhon nga anak ni Joash. Padag-on siya sang Dios kontra sa mga Midianhon kag sa aton tanan.”
Sang mabatian ni Gideon ang damgo kag ang kahulugan sini, nagdayaw siya sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon nagbalik siya sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon kag ginsilingan niya ang iya mga kaupdanan, “Dali na, kay padag-on kita sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa mga Midianhon.”
Ginpartida niya sa tatlo ka grupo ang 300 niya ka tinawo, kag ginhatagan niya ang kada isa sang budyong kag tibod nga may suga sa sulod sini.
Dayon nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kon ara na gani kami sa border sang kampo sang kaaway sang kaaway , bantayi ninyo ako kag sundon ninyo kon ano ang akon himuon.
Kon patunugon ko kag sang akon mga kaupod ang amon mga budyong, amo man ang himuon ninyo sa palibot sang kampo, kag magsinggit kamo sing tudo sing tudo , ‘Para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag kay Gideon!’ ”
Tungang gab-i na sang mag-abot si Gideon kag ang iya 100 ka kaupod sa border sang kampo sang kaaway sang kaaway . Wala lang gid dugay nga naislan ang guwardya didto. Ginpatunog nila ni Gideon ang ila mga budyong kag ginpangbuka nila ang ila mga tibod.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gideon, “Kadamo sang upod mo. Basi maghunahuna sila nga nadaog nila ang mga Midianhon sa ila kaugalingon nga ikasarang kag indi tungod sa akon.
Amo man ang ginhimo sang duha ka grupo. Kag samtang ginakaptan sang ila wala nga kamot ang suga kag sang ila tuo nga kamot ang budyong, nagasinggit sila, “Magpakig-away kita para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag kay Gideon.”
Kada isa nagplastar sa iya lugar sa palibot sang kampo, pero ang ila mga kaaway iya nagpalalagyo nga nagasiniyagit.
Kag samtang nagahinuni ang mga budyong sang 300 ka Israelinhon, ginpaaway sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga tawo sa sulod sang kampo. Ang iban nagpalagyo sa Bet Shita malapit sa Zerera hasta sa border sang Abel Mehola malapit sa Tabat.
Ginpatawag ni Gideon ang mga Israelinhon halin sa mga tribo ni mga tribo ni Naftali kag ni Asher, kag sa bilog nga tribo ni tribo ni Manase, kag ginpalagas sa ila ang mga Midianhon.
Nagpasugo man si Gideon sang mga mensahero sa mga pumuluyo sang kabukiran sang Efraim sa paghambal sa ila nga magbantay sila sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan hasta sa sapa sang Bet Bara para indi makatabok ang mga Midianhon. Gintuman ini sang tanan nga lalaki sa Efraim kag ginbantayan nila ato nga mga lugar.
Nabihag nila ang duha ka pangulo sang Midianhon nga si Oreb kag si Zeeb. Ginpatay nila si Oreb sa may bato nga gintawag sang ulihi nga bato nga gintawag sang ulihi nga Bato ni Oreb, kag si Zeeb ginpatay nila sa pulugaan sang ubas nga gintawag sang ulihi nga pulugaan sang ubas nga gintawag sang ulihi nga Pulugaan sang Ubas ni Zeeb. Kag padayon nila nga ginlagas ang mga Midianhon. Pagkatapos gindala nila ang ulo ni Oreb kag ni Zeeb kay Gideon nga didto na sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Gani silinga sila nga kon sin-o ang nahadlok, maghalin sa sining Bukid sang Gilead kag magpuli.” Sang ginsiling ini ni Gideon, nagpuli ang 22,000, kag 10,000 na lang ang nabilin.
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gideon, “Madamo pa gihapon ang nabilin. Dal-a sila sa suba kay didto painon ko ang maupod sa imo. Ang bisan sin-o nga isiling ko sa imo nga paupdon, paupda. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga isiling ko sa imo nga indi pagpaupdon, indi pagpaupda.”
Gani gindala sila ni Gideon sa suba. Kag didto nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Paina ang tanan nga nagainom sang tubig sa ila mga kamot sa ila mga kamot nga daw sa ido nga nagalaklak, kag paina man ang nagainom nga nagaluhod.”
May 300 ka tawo nga naglaklak sa ila mga kamot, kag ang iban nag-inom nga nagaluhod.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gideon, “Paagi sa sining 300 ka tawo luwason ko kamo kag padag-on sa mga Midianhon. Ang nabilin nga mga tawo papulia na lang sa ila tagsa ka lugar.”
Karon, ang kampo sang mga Midianhon didto sa kapatagan, sa ubos lang nila.
Sadto nga gab-i, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gideon, “Sige na! Salakaya na ninyo ang kampo kay padag-on ko kamo.
Karon, nagsiling ang katawhan sang Efraim kay Gideon, “Ano ining ginhimo mo? Ngaa wala mo kami pagtawga sang magpakig-away kamo sa mga Midianhon?” Kag ginbasol gid nila si Gideon.
Karon, si Zeba kag si Zalmuna ara sa Karkor upod sang 15,000 nila ka soldado nga nabilin. Mga 120,000 na ang napatay sa ila.
Padayon ang pagtaklad nila ni Gideon kag didto sila nag-agi sa lugar sang mga nagaestar sa tolda sa east sang Noba kag Jogbeha. Dayon ginsalakay nila gulpi ang mga Midianhon.
Nagpalagyo si Zeba kag si Zalmuna, pero ginlagas sila ni Gideon kag gindakop, gani nagsinala-sala ang ila mga soldado.
Sang magpuli na sila ni Gideon halin sa inaway, didto sila nag-agi sa Taklaran sang Heres.
Nakadakop sila sang isa ka bataon nga lalaki nga taga-Sucot, kag ginpamangkot nila kon sin-o ang mga opisyal sang Sucot. Kag ginlista niya ang ngalan sang 77 ka opisyal nga nagadumala sang Sucot.
Pagkatapos ginkadtuan nila ni Gideon ang mga taga-Sucot kag ginsilingan, “Nadumduman bala ninyo ang inyo pag-insulto sa akon? Nagsiling kamo, ‘Wala pa gani ninyo madakpan si Zeba kag si Zalmuna. Ngaa hatagan namon sang pagkaon ang imo kapoy nga mga tinawo?’ Karon, ari na si Zeba kag si Zalmuna!”
Dayon ginkuha ni Gideon ang mga manugdumala sang Sucot kag gintudluan niya sila sang leksyon paagi sa paglatigo sa ila sang paglatigo sa ila sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy.
Pagkatapos ginpaguba niya ang tore sa Penuel kag ginpamatay ang mga lalaki didto.
Dayon ginpamangkot ni Gideon si Zeba kag si Zalmuna, “Ano ang hitsura sang mga lalaki nga inyo ginpamatay sa Tabor?” Nagsabat sila, “Pareho sa imo, daw mga anak sang hari.”
Nagsiling si Gideon, “Mga utod ko sila; mga anak mismo sang akon iloy. Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga kon wala ninyo sila pagpatya, indi ko man kamo pagpatyon.”
Pero nagsiling si Gideon sa ila, “Ang nahimo ko gamay gid lang kon ikomparar sa nahimo ninyo. Bisan ang gamay nga nahimo ninyo mas labaw pa kon ikomparar sa tanan nga nahimo sang amon pamilya.
Dayon nagsiling siya sa iya kamagulangan nga anak nga si Jeter, “Patya sila.” Pero tungod kay bata pa si Jeter, nahadlok siya, gani wala niya gin-gabot ang iya espada.
Nagsiling si Zeba kag si Zalmuna kay Gideon kay Gideon , “Ngaa indi ikaw ang magpatay sa amon? Ipakita ang pagkalalaki mo!” Gani ginpatay sila ni Gideon kag ginpakuha dayon niya ang mga dekorasyon sa liog sang ila mga camel.
Karon nagsiling ang mga Israelinhon kay Gideon, “Tungod kay ikaw ang nagluwas sa amon sa mga Midianhon, ikaw na lang kag ang imo bata kag apo ang magpangulo sa amon.”
Nagsabat si Gideon, “Indi ako ukon ang akon bata ang magpangulo sa inyo kundi ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero may pangayuon lang ako sa inyo: ang kada isa sa inyo maghatag sa akon sang isa ka aritos nga nakuha ninyo sa mga Midianhon.” (Ang mga Midianhon nagasuksok sang bulawan nga aritos suno sa ila kinabatasan bilang mga Ishmaelinhon.)
Nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Huo, hatagan ka namon.” Naghumlad sila sang isa ka panapton, kag ang kada isa nagbutang didto sang aritos nga nakuha nila sa mga Midianhon sa mga Midianhon .
Mga 20 ka kilo ang natipon nga mga bulawan nga aritos wala labot sang mga dekorasyon, mga kulintas, mga bayo nga granate
Halin sa natipon nga bulawan, nagpahimo si Gideon sang isa ka espesyal nga panapton
Amo ato ang estorya parte sa pagdaog sang mga Israelinhon kontra sa Midian, kag wala na gid ini makabangon pa. Nangin malinong ang Israel sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig samtang buhi pa si Gideon.
Nagpuli si Gideon
Ginpapierdi sang Dios sa inyo ang mga pangulo sang mga Midianhon nga si Oreb kag si Zeeb. Ti, ano ang nahimo ko kon ikomparar dira?” Sang masiling ini ni Gideon, naumpawan sila sa ila kaakig.
May 70 siya ka kabataan tungod kay madamo ang iya asawa.
May asawa man siya nga suluguon didto sa Shekem kag may anak sila nga lalaki nga gin-ngalanan niya nga Abimelec.
Tigulang na si Gideon sang mapatay siya. Ginlubong siya sa lulubngan sang iya amay nga si Joash sa Ofra, sa lugar sang mga kaliwat ni Abiezer.
Sa wala lang dugay nga napatay si Gideon, nagtalikod naman ang mga Israelinhon sa Dios kag nagsimba liwat sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal. Ginhimo nila si Baal Berit nga ila dios.
Ginkalimtan nila ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios nga amo ang nagluwas sa ila kontra sa ila mga kaaway sa palibot.
Wala gid sila nagpakita sing kaayo sa pamilya ni Jerubaal (nga amo man si Gideon) sa tanan nga maayo nga butang nga ginhimo niya sa Israel.
Nagtabok si Gideon kag ang iya 300 ka tinawo sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Kapoy na gid sila pero padayon pa gihapon ang ila paglagas sa ila mga kaaway sa ila mga kaaway .
Sang mag-abot sila Sang mag-abot sila sa Sucot, nangabay si Gideon sa mga taga-didto. Siling niya, “Palihog hatagi ninyo kami sang pagkaon. Kapoy kag gutom na gid kami kag kinahanglan pa namon nga lagson ang duha ka hari sang Midian nga si Zeba kag si Zalmuna.”
Pero nagsabat ang mga opisyal sang Sucot, “Wala pa gani ninyo madakpan si Zeba kag si Zalmuna. Ngaa hatagan namon kamo sang pagkaon?”
Nagsiling si Gideon, “Gali ha! Andaman lang ninyo Andaman lang ninyo kon madakpan na namon si Zeba kag si Zalmuna. Latiguhon ko gid kamo sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy.”
Halin didto nagtaklad sila ni Gideon sa Penuel
Nagsiling si Gideon sa ila, “Sa tapos nga madaog namon ang amon kaaway, mabalik kami diri, kag gub-on namon ang inyo tore.”
Isa ka adlaw, nagkadto si Abimelec nga anak ni Gideon
“Dayon nagsiling sila sa kahoy nga higera, ‘Ikaw na lang ang maghari sa amon.’
Nagsabat ang higera, ‘Mas pilion ko pa bala ang maghari sa inyo sang sa maghatag sang manamit nga bunga? Indi gid! Indi gid! ’
“Dayon nagsiling sila sa ubas, ‘Ikaw na lang ang maghari sa amon.’
Nagsabat ang ubas, ‘Mas pilion ko pa bala ang maghari sa inyo sang sa maghatag sang bino nga makapalipay sa mga dios kag sa mga tawo? Indi gid! Indi gid! ’
“Gani nagsiling na lang sila tanan sa tunukon nga kahoy-kahoy, ‘Ikaw na lang ang maghari sa amon.’
Nagsabat ang tunukon nga kahoy-kahoy, ‘Kon gusto gid ninyo nga ako ang maghari sa inyo, magpahandong kamo sa akon. Pero kon indi gani kamo, mapaguwa ako sang kalayo nga magasunog sa mga kahoy nga sedro sang Lebanon.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Jotam, Dayon nagsiling si Jotam, “Matarong bala kag husto ang inyo paghimo kay Abimelec nga hari? Maayo bala ang inyo ginhimo sa akon amay nga si akon amay nga si Gideon kag sa iya pamilya? Kag nagakabagay man bala sa iya hinimuan?
Dumduma ninyo nga nagpakig-away ang akon amay para luwason kamo sa mga Midianhon. Gintaya niya ang iya kabuhi para sa inyo.
Pero karon ginkontra ninyo ang pamilya sang akon amay. Ginpamatay ninyo ang 70 niya ka anak sa ibabaw sang isa ka bato. Kag ginhimo ninyo nga hari si Abimelec, nga anak sang akon amay sa iya suluguon nga babayi, tungod lamang kay paryente ninyo siya.
Gani kon para sa inyo matarong kag husto ang ginhimo ninyo sa akon amay kag sa iya pamilya, kabay pa nga malipay kamo kay Abimelec kag siya amo man sa inyo.
“Pamangkuta ninyo ang tanan nga taga-Shekem kon ano ang gusto nila: panguluhan sila sang 70 ka anak ni Gideon ukon sang isa lang niya ka anak? Dumdumon ninyo nga ako mismo paryente ninyo.”
Pero kon indi, kabay pa nga laglagon kamo ni Abimelec nga daw sa lamunon kamo sang kalayo. Kag kamo nga mga taga-Shekem kag taga-Bet Millo, laglagon man ninyo si Abimelec nga daw sa lamunon man siya sang kalayo.”
Pagkahambal sadto ni Pagkahambal sadto ni Jotam, nagpalagyo siya siya pakadto sa Beer kag didto nag-estar tungod kay nahadlok siya sa iya utod nga si Abimelec.
Pagkatapos sang tatlo ka tuig nga pagdumala ni Abimelec sa mga Israelinhon,
ginpaaway sang Dios si Abimelec kag ang katawhan sang Shekem. Nagrebelde ang mga taga-Shekem kay Abimelec.
Natabo ini para pabayaron si Abimelec kag ang mga taga-Shekem nga nagbulig sa iya sa pagpamatay sa 70 ka anak ni Gideon nga iya mga utod.
Nagbutang ang mga taga-Shekem sang mga tawo sa bukid sa pag-ambus kay Abimelec, kag ginahold-ap nila ang mga nagaagi didto. Nabalitaan ini ni Abimelec.
Sadto nga tion, si Gaal nga anak ni Ebed nagsaylo sa Shekem upod ang iya mga utod. Nagsalig sa iya ang mga taga-Shekem.
Sang tion sang tighalarvest sang ubas, naghimo ang mga tawo sang bino halin sa sini nga mga ubas. Kag naghiwat sila sang piesta sa templo sang ila dios. Kag samtang nagakinaon sila didto kag nagaininom, ginalibak nila si Abimelec.
Nagsiling si Gaal, “Ano kita nga klase sang mga tawo sa Shekem? Ngaa nagapasakop kita kay Abimelec? Sin-o gid bala siya? Indi bala nga anak lang siya ni Gideon? Ti, ngaa magpasakop kita sa iya ukon kay Zebul nga nagadumala para sa iya? Dapat magpasakop kamo sa kaliwat sang inyo katigulangan nga si Hamor.
Kon sakop ko lang kamo, sigurado gid nga mapahalin ko si Abimelec. Hambalon ko gid siya nga ipreparar niya ang iya mga soldado kag magpakig-away sa aton sa aton .”
Gani nagpakighambal ang mga paryente ni Abimelec sa mga taga-Shekem. Nagsugot sila nga si Abimelec ang magapangulo sa ila, tungod kay paryente nila siya.
Sang mabatian ni Zebul nga pangulo sang banwa ang ginsiling ni Gaal, nangakig gid siya.
Gani sekreto nga nagpasugo siya sang mga mensahero nga magkadto kay Abimelec. Amo ini ang ginpasiling niya, “Si Gaal kag ang iya mga utod nagsaylo diri sa Shekem, kag ginaganyat nila ang mga tawo nga magkontra sa imo.
Gani karon sa gab-i, upda ang imo mga tinawo kag magpanago anay kamo sa kaumahan sa guwa sang banwa sa guwa sang banwa .
Buwas, pagbutlak sang adlaw, dali-dalia ninyo salakay ang banwa. Kon magpakig-away sila ni Gaal, himua ang gusto mo nga himuon sa ila.”
Pagkagab-i, naglakat si Abimelec kag ang iya mga tinawo. Naggrupo sila sa apat ka grupo kag nagpanago sa guwa lang sang guwa lang sang Shekem.
Sang makita nila nga nagguwa si Gaal kag nagtindog sa may puwertahan sang banwa, nagguwa sila sa ila ginapanaguan para magsalakay.
Sang makita sila ni Gaal, nagsiling siya kay Zebul, “Tan-awa! May mga tawo nga nagapadulhog halin sa mga putokputokan sang mga bukid.” Nagsabat si Zebul, “Mga landong lang ina sang mga bukid. Panan-awan mo lang ina nga daw mga tawo.”
Nagsiling si Gaal, “Pero tan-awa! May mga tawo man nga nagahalin sa tunga sang duha ka bukid, kag may ara pa gid sa alagyan malapit sa dako nga kahoy sang mga manugpakot!”
Nagsabat si Zebul sa iya, “Diin na karon ang imo ginapahambog? Indi bala nga nagsiling ka, ‘Sin-o gid bala si Abimelec nga magpasakop kita sa iya?’ Karon ara na ang ginayaguta mo! Ngaa indi ka magpakig-away sa ila?”
Gani gintipon ni Gaal ang mga taga-Shekem kag nagpakig-away sila kay Abimelec.
Ginhatagan nila si Abimelec sang 70 ka bilog nga pilak halin sa templo ni Baal Berit, kag gin-gamit niya ini sa pagsuhol sa mga bugoy sa pagsunod sa iya.
Sang ulihi nagpalagyo si Gaal kag ginlagas siya ni Abimelec. Madamo ang nagkalamatay sa inaway; ang mga pilason naglalapta hasta sa may puwertahan sang banwa.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagtiner si Abimelec sa Aruma. Wala gintugutan ni Zebul nga magbalik sa Shekem si Gaal kag ang iya mga utod.
Pagkaaga, nabalitaan ni Abimelec nga makadto sa kaumahan ang mga taga-Shekem.
Gani gin-grupo niya sa tatlo ka grupo ang iya mga tinawo kag nagkadto sila sa kaumahan kag naghulat sa pagsalakay. Sang makita nila ang mga taga-Shekem nga nagapaguwa sa banwa, nagsugod sila sa pagsalakay.
Ang grupo ni Abimelec nagplastar sa may puwertahan dampi sang banwa samtang ginpamatay sang duha niya ka grupo ang mga taga-Shekem sa may kaumahan.
Bilog gid nga adlaw ang pagpakig-away nila ni Abimelec. Sang ulihi nasakop gid man nila ang banwa, kag ginpamatay nila ang mga pumuluyo sini. Pagkatapos gin-guba nila ang banwa kag ginsabwagan dayon sang asin.
Sang mabalitaan ini sang mga nagaestar sa Tore sang Shekem, nagpanago sila sa mabakod nga lugar sang templo ni El Berit.
Pagkahibalo sini ni Abimelec,
gindala niya ang iya mga tinawo sa Bukid sang Zalmon. Pag-abot nila didto, nagkuha si Abimelec sang wasay kag nagpang-utod sang mga sanga sang kahoy kag ginpas-an. Ginsilingan man niya ang iya mga tinawo, “Magdali-dali kamo kag himua ninyo ang akon ginhimo.”
Gani ang kada isa sa ila nagpas-an sang kahoy kag nagsunod kay Abimelec. Gintumpok nila ang mga kahoy sa mabakod nga lugar sang templo ni El Berit sang templo ni El Berit kag gintutdan. Gani nagkalamatay ang tanan nga tawo nga nagaestar sadto sa Tore sang Shekem. Mga 1,000 sila tanan pati mga babayi.
Dayon nagkadto si Abimelec sa balay sang iya amay sa Ofra. Kag didto, sa ibabaw sang isa ka bato, ginpamatay niya ang iya 70
Pagkatapos nagkadto sila ni Abimelec sa Tebez kag ginsakop man nila ini.
Pero may mapag-on didto nga tore nga sa diin nagpalagyo ang mga taga-Tebez. Ginsiradhan nila ini kag nagsaka sila sa atop sang tore.
Ginsalakay ni Abimelec ang tore. Kag sang sunugon na niya kuntani ini,
ginhulugan siya sang babayi sing galingan nga bato, kag naglitik ang iya ulo.
Dali-dali niya nga gintawag ang manugdala sang iya armas kag ginsilingan, “Gabuta ang imo espada kag patya ako para indi sila makasiling nga isa lang ka babayi ang nakapatay sa akon.” Gani ginbuno siya sang iya suluguon kag napatay siya.
Sang makita sang mga tinawo ni Abimelec
Sa amo nga paagi, ginpabayad sang Dios si Abimelec sa ginhimo niya nga malain sa iya amay nga amo ang pagpatay sa 70 niya ka utod.
Ginpabayad man sang Dios ang mga taga-Shekem sa tanan nila nga kalautan. Gani natuman ang sumpa ni Jotam nga anak ni Gideon.
Nagkadto ang mga taga-Shekem kag taga-Bet Millo sa may dako nga kahoy sa Shekem kag didto ginhimo nila nga hari si Abimelec.
Sang mabatian ini ni Jotam, nagtaklad siya sa ibabaw sang Bukid sang Gerizim kag nagsinggit sa ila, “Mga taga-Shekem, pamatii ninyo ako kon gusto ninyo nga pamatian kamo sang Dios.
Sugiran ko kamo sang isa ka estorya parte sa Sugiran ko kamo sang isa ka estorya parte sa mga kahoy nga nga nagpangita sang magahari sa ila. Nagsiling sila sa kahoy nga olibo, ‘Ikaw ang maghari sa amon.’
Nagsabat ang olibo, ‘Mas pilion ko pa bala ang maghari sa inyo sang sa maghatag sang lana nga ginagamit sa pagpadungog sa mga dios kag sa mga tawo? Indi gid! Indi gid! ’
Sang napatay si Abimelec, si Tola nga anak ni Pua kag apo ni Dodo amo ang nagpangulo sa pagluwas sa Israel. Naghalin siya sa tribo ni Isacar, pero nag-estar siya sa Shamir sa kabukiran sang Efraim.
Gani nagpangayo sang bulig ang mga Israelinhon sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsiling sila, “Nakasala kami kontra sa imo, kay nagtalikod kami sa imo nga amon Dios kag nagsimba sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal.”
Pero nagtalikod kamo sa akon kag nagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Gani karon indi ko na kamo pagluwason.
Ngaa indi kamo magpangayo sang bulig sa mga dios nga inyo ginpili? Sila ang paluwasa sa inyo sa tion nga ara kamo sa kalisod.”
Pero nagsiling sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Nakasala kami sa imo, gani himua ang gusto mo nga himuon sa amon. Pero maluoy ka, luwasa kami subong.”
Dayon ginsikway nila ang ila mga dios kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Sang ulihi indi na maagwanta sang Ginoo Ginoo nga makita sila nga nagaantos.
Nag-abot ang adlaw nga nag-away ang mga Ammonhon kag ang mga Israelinhon. Nagkampo ang mga Ammonhon sa Gilead, kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Mizpa.
Nag-estoryahanay ang mga pangulo sang Gilead. Siling nila, “Kon sin-o ang magpanguna sa aton sa pagpakig-away sa mga Ammonhon amo ang himuon ta nga pangulo sa tanan nga nagaestar sa Gilead.”
Ginpanguluhan niya ang Israel sa sulod sang 23 ka tuig. Sang napatay siya, ginlubong siya sa Shamir.
Sunod kay Tola amo si Jair nga taga-Gilead. Ginpanguluhan niya ang Israel sa sulod sang 22 ka tuig.
May 30 siya ka anak, kag ang kada isa sa ila may isa ka donkey nga ginasakyan. Ini sila amo ang nagdumala sa 30 ka banwa sa Gilead nga ginatawag subong nga mga banwa ni Jair.
Sang napatay si Jair, ginlubong siya sa Kamon.
Naghimo liwat sing malain ang mga Israelinhon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginsikway nila ang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsimba sila sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal kag ni ni Ashtoret, kag sa mga dios-dios sang Aram,
Tungod sini, nangakig sa ila ang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginpasakop niya sila sa mga Ammonhon kag mga Filistinhon.
Kag sugod sugod sa sina nga tuig, ginpabudlayan kag ginpaantos nila ang mga Israelinhon. Ginhimo nila ini Ginhimo nila ini sa sulod sang 18 ka tuig sa tanan nga Israelinhon sa Gilead, sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan nga sakop sadto sang mga Amornon.
Nagtabok man ang mga Ammonhon sa west sang Suba sang west sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagpakig-away sa mga tribo ni mga tribo ni Juda, ni Benjamin, kag ni Efraim. Tungod sini, puwerte gid ang kalisod sang Israel.
Si Jefta nga taga-Gilead isa ka maayo nga soldado. Ang iya amay amo si Gilead kag ang iya iloy isa ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.
Nagsabat sila, “Huo, ikaw ang himuon namon nga pangulo. Ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo amo ang amon saksi.”
Gani nag-upod si Jefta sa ila, kag ginhimo siya sang mga taga-Gilead nga ila pangulo kag kumander. Kag didto sa Mizpa, sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginhambal ni Jefta ang iya mga promisa bilang pangulo bilang pangulo .
Dayon nagpasugo si Jefta sang mga mensahero sa pagpamangkot sa hari sang mga Ammonhon kon ngaa ginasalakay nila ang Israel.
Amo ini ang sabat sang hari sang mga Ammonhon sa mga mensahero ni Jefta: “Sang pagguwa sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt, ginsakop nila ang amon mga duta halin sa Arnon hasta sa Jabok, pakadto sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Gani karon, ibalik ninyo ini sa amon sing matawhay.”
Ginpabalik ni Jefta ang mga mensahero sa hari sang mga Ammonhon
sa pagsiling, “Wala kami nangagaw sang duta sang Moab ukon sang Ammon.
Sang maghalin sa Egypt ang amon mga katigulangan, nag-agi sila sa kamingawan pakadto sa Mapula nga Dagat hasta nakaabot sila sa Kadesh.
Dayon nagpadala sila sang mga mensahero sa hari sang Edom para pangabayon nga kon puwede tugutan sila nga mag-agi sa ila duta, pero wala sila gintugutan. Amo man ini ang ginhimo sang hari sang Moab sa ila. Gani nagpabilin na lang sila sa Kadesh.
“Sang ulihi nagpadayon sila sa pagpanglakaton sa kamingawan. Naglibot sila sa Edom kag Moab hasta nga nakaabot sila sa east sang Moab sa tabok sang Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig nga ililigan sang tubig . Didto sila nagkampo, pero wala sila nagtabok sa Arnon tungod kay border ato sang Moab.
“Dayon nagpadala sila sang mga mensahero kay Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon (nga nagahari sa Heshbon) para magpangabay nga kon puwede tugutan sila nga mag-agi sa ila duta para makaabot sila sa ila lugar.
May mga anak si Gilead sa iya gid asawa. Kag sang nagdalagko sila, ginpalayas nila si Jefta. Siling nila, “Wala ka gid sing may mapanubli sa amon amay, tungod kay anak ka sa iban nga babayi.”
Pero wala magsalig si Sihon sa ila. Sa baylo, gintipon niya ang iya mga soldado sa Jahaz kag ginsalakay ang mga Israelinhon.
Pero ginpapierdi sila sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, sa mga Israelinhon. Gani ginsakop sang mga Israelinhon ang tanan nga kadutaan sang mga Amornon nga nagaestar sa sadto nga lugar:
halin sa Arnon hasta sa Jabok, kag halin sa kamingawan hasta sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
“Gani ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, amo ang nagtabog sa mga Amornon kag naghatag sang ila duta kag naghatag sang ila duta sa mga Israelinhon. Kag karon gusto ninyo nga kuhaon ini?
Angkuna ninyo ang ginahatag sa inyo ni Kemosh nga inyo dios. Kag angkunon man namon ang ginahatag sa amon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Ano, mas maayo ka pa kay Haring Balak sang Moab, nga anak ni Zipor? Wala gani sila nagpakigbais sa Israel parte sa duta parte sa duta ukon nagpakig-away sa ila. Indi bala? Indi bala?
Mga 300 na ka tuig nga nagaestar ang mga Israelinhon sa Heshbon kag sa Aroer, kag sa mga baryo sa palibot nila, pati sa mga banwa sa higad sang Arnon. Ngaa subong lang ninyo nadumduman nga kuhaon ini?
Wala kami sing may malain nga ginhimo sa inyo, pero kamo malain ang inyo ginahimo sa amon tungod kay gusto ninyo nga magpakig-away sa amon. Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang maghukom sa aton kon sin-o sa aton ang husto kon sin-o sa aton ang husto .”
Pero wala gid ginsapak sang hari sang mga Ammonhon ang mensahi ni Jefta.
Karon, gin-gamhan si Jefta sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo . Naglibot siya sa bilog nga Gilead kag sa Manase sa pagtipon sang mga soldado sa pagtipon sang mga soldado . Pagkatapos nagbalik siya sa Mizpa nga sakop sang Gilead. Kag halin didto ginsalakay niya ang mga Ammonhon.
Gani nagpalagyo si Jefta sa ila kag nag-estar sa Tob, nga sa diin nag-upod sa iya ang isa ka grupo sang mga bugoy.
Nagpanumpa si Jefta sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siling niya, “Kon sigurado nga ipapierdi mo sa akon ining mga Ammonhon,
ihalad ko bilang halad nga ginasunog sa imo ang una nga magguwa sa akon balay sa pagsugata sa akon pagpuli halin sa inaway.”
Nagpakig-away si Jefta sa mga Ammonhon, kag ginpadaog siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Napierdi nila ang mga Ammonhon, kag damo gid ang ila ginpatay. Nasakop nila ang 20 ka banwa halin sa Aroer pakadto sa palibot sang Minnit hasta sa Abel Keramim.
Sang magpuli si Jefta sa Mizpa, ginsugata siya sang iya anak nga babayi nga nagasaot samtang nagatukar sang tamborin. Bugtong siya nga anak ni Jefta.
Sang makita siya ni Jefta, gin-gisi ni Jefta ang iya bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo , kag nagsiling, “Anak ko, ginpasubo mo gid ako tungod kay nakapanumpa ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag indi ko na ini mabawi.”
Nagsabat ang anak ni Jefta, “Tay, nakapanumpa ka sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gani tumana ang ginsumpa mo, kay ginpadaog kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo mga kaaway nga mga Ammonhon.
Pero may isa lang ako ka butang nga ipangabay sa imo: tuguti ako nga sa duha ka bulan makalibot-libot ako sa mga bukid para magpangasubo upod sang akon mga amiga, kay mapatay ako nga indi makapamana.”
Gintugutan siya ni Jefta. Gani sa sulod sang duha ka bulan, naglibot-libot siya sa mga bukid kaupod sang iya mga amiga para magpangasubo, tungod kay mapatay siya nga indi makapamana.
Pagkaligad sang duha ka bulan, nagbalik siya sa iya amay. Kag gintuman ni Jefta ang iya ginsumpa sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag napatay ang iya anak nga isa ka birhen. Amo ini ang ginsuguran sang kinabatasan sang Israel
Sadto nga tion, nag-inaway ang mga Ammonhon kag mga Israelinhon.
nga sa kada tuig, nagalibot-libot sa mga bukid sa mga bukid ang mga dalaga sang Israel kag nagapangasubo sa sulod sang apat ka adlaw bilang pagdumdom sa anak nga babayi ni Jefta nga taga-Gilead.
Tungod sini, ginpasugat sang mga manugdumala sang Gilead si Jefta didto sa Tob.
Siling nila, “Panguluhi kami sa amon pagpakig-away sa mga Ammonhon.”
Pero nagsabat si Jefta, “Indi bala nga nangakig kamo sa akon kag ginpalayas ninyo ako sa balay sang akon amay? Karon nga ara na kamo sa kalisod, mangayo kamo sang bulig sa akon?”
Pero nagsiling sila, “Kinahanglan ka namon. Sige na, mag-upod ka sa amon sa pagpakig-away sa mga Ammonhon, kag ikaw ang mangin pangulo sa Gilead.”
Nagsabat si Jefta, “Kon mag-upod gid man ako sa inaway kag padag-on ako sang Ginoo Ginoo , ako gid bala ang himuon ninyo nga pangulo?”
Karon, nagtipon ang mga soldado sang Efraim, kag nagtabok sila sa Suba sang Jordan sa Suba sang Jordan kag nagkadto sa Zafon para atubangon si Jefta. Nagpamangkot sila sa iya, “Ngaa wala mo kami pagtawga sang magpakig-away kamo sa mga Ammonhon? Tungod sa ginhimo mo nga ini, sunugon namon ang imo balay nga ara ka sa sulod.”
Sang napatay siya, ginlubong siya sa Betlehem.
Ang nagbulos sa iya bilang pangulo sang Israel amo si Elon nga taga-Zebulun. Ginpanguluhan niya ang Israel sa sulod sang napulo ka tuig.
Sang napatay siya, ginlubong siya sa Ayalon nga sakop sang Zebulun.
Ang nagbulos sa iya bilang pangulo sang Israel amo si Abdon nga anak ni Hilel nga taga-Piraton.
May 40 siya ka anak nga lalaki kag 30 ka apo nga lalaki, kag ang kada isa sa ila may donkey nga ginasakyan. Ginpanguluhan niya ang Israel sa sulod sang walo ka tuig.
Sang napatay siya, ginlubong siya sa Piraton, sa kabukiran sang Efraim, nga sakop sadto sang mga Amaleknon.
Pero nagsiling si Jefta sa ila, “Sang puwerte ang amon pagpakig-away sa mga Ammonhon, nagpangayo ako sang bulig sa inyo. Pero wala ninyo ako pagbuligi.
Sang mahibaluan ko nga indi kamo magbulig, gintaya ko ang akon kabuhi sa pagpakig-away. Kag ginpadaog ako sang Ginoo Ginoo . Karon, ngaa bala gusto ninyo nga magpakig-away sa akon?”
Nagsabat ang mga taga-Efraim, “Kamo nga mga taga-Gilead mga layas-layas sang Efraim kag Manase.” Gani gintipon ni Jefta ang mga lalaki sa Gilead kag nagpakig-away sila sa mga taga-Efraim. Kag napierdi nila ang mga taga-Efraim.
Gin-agaw nila ang mga lugar sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan nga talabukan pakadto sa Efraim, para wala sing mga taga-Efraim nga makapalagyo para wala sing mga taga-Efraim nga makapalagyo . Ang bisan sin-o nga magtabok, ginapamangkot nila kon bala taga-Efraim siya ukon indi. Kon magsabat gani siya nga, “Indi,”
ginapasiling nila siya sang “Shibolet,” kay ang mga taga-Efraim indi kasampot sini. Kon ang iya gani isiling “Sibolet,” dakpon nila dayon kag patyon didto mismo sa may talabukan sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Kag sadto nga tion, 42,000 ka taga-Efraim ang napatay.
Ginpanguluhan ni Jefta ang Israel sa sulod sang anom ka tuig. Sang napatay siya, ginlubong siya sa isa ka banwa sa Gilead.
Sang napatay si Jefta, si Ibzan nga taga-Betlehem ang nagbulos sa iya bilang pangulo sang Israel.
Si Ibzan may 30 ka anak nga lalaki kag 30 ka babayi. Ginpaasawa kag ginpapamana niya ang iya mga anak sa mga indi sakop sang ila tribo. Ginpanguluhan niya ang Israel sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.
Naghimo liwat sing malain ang mga Israelinhon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ginpasakop sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Filistinhon sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
Dali-dali niya nga ginpangita ang iya bana kag ginsilingan, “Manoa, dali! Ari na ang tawo nga nagpakita sa akon sang isa ka adlaw.”
Nagtindog si Manoa kag nagsunod sa iya asawa. Pagkakita niya sa tawo, ginpamangkot niya, “Ikaw bala ang nagpakighambal sa akon asawa?” Nagsabat siya, “Huo.”
Nagpamangkot si Manoa sa iya, “Kon matuman na ang ginsiling mo, ano bala ang mga pagsulundan parte sa pagkabuhi kag buluhaton sang bata?”
Nagsabat ang anghel, “Kinahanglan sundon sang imo asawa ang tanan nga ginsiling ko sa iya.
Indi siya magkaon sang bisan ano nga halin sa ubas. Indi man siya mag-inom sang bino ukon sang bisan ano nga klase sang ilimnon nga makahulubog, ukon magkaon sang bisan ano nga pagkaon nga ginakabig nga mahigko. Kinahanglan sundon gid niya ang tanan nga ginsiling ko sa iya.”
Nagsiling si Manoa sa anghel, “Indi ka anay maghalin kay maihaw kami sang bataon nga kanding para sa imo.”
Nagsabat ang anghel, “Bisan magpabilin pa ako, indi ko pagkaunon ang ipreparar mo nga pagkaon. Maayo pa nga maghalad ka na lang sang halad nga ginasunog para sa Ginoo Ginoo .” (Wala nakahibalo si Manoa nga anghel gali ato sang Ginoo Ginoo .)
Nagpamangkot si Manoa, “Ano ang imo ngalan, para mapadunggan ka namon sa tion nga matuman ang imo ginsiling?”
Nagsabat ang anghel, “Ngaa gusto gid ninyo nga mahibaluan ang akon ngalan? Mabudlay ini intiendihon.”
Dayon nagkuha si Manoa sang bataon nga kanding kag halad nga regalo, kag ginhalad niya ini sa ibabaw sang halaran nga halaran nga bato para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag samtang nagatulok si Manoa kag ang iya asawa, naghimo ang Ginoo Ginoo sang makatilingala nga butang.
Sa sina nga panahon may isa ka lalaki nga ang iya ngalan si Manoa. Sakop siya sang tribo ni Dan, kag nagaestar siya sa Zora. Ang asawa niya indi makabata.
Nakita nila ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagapaibabaw pa-langit kaupod sa kalayo nga nagadabadaba paibabaw. Tungod sa ila nakita, nagluhod dayon ang mag-asawa.
Halin sadto wala na nila liwat makita ang anghel. Didto nila nareyalisar nga anghel gali ato sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si Manoa sa iya asawa, “Sigurado gid nga mapatay kita kay nakita ta ang Dios.”
Pero nagsabat ang iya asawa, “Kon gusto sang Ginoo Ginoo nga patyon kita, wala niya kuntani pagbatuna ang aton mga halad. Wala man niya kuntani ginpakita sa aton ato nga milagro ukon ginsugid sa aton ang parte sa bata.”
Sang ulihi nagbata ang asawa ni Manoa sang lalaki kag gin-ngalanan niya nga Samson. Nagdako ang bata kag ginpakamaayo siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo nagsugod sa pagpanghikot sa iya samtang didto siya sa kampo ni Dan,
Isa ka adlaw, Isa ka adlaw, nagpakita ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya asawa kag nagsiling, “Hasta subong wala ka pa sing bata. Pero sa indi madugay magabusong ka kag magabata sing lalaki.
Karon, indi ka na mag-inom sang bino ukon sang bisan ano nga klase sang ilimnon nga makahulubog, ukon magkaon sang bisan ano nga pagkaon nga ginakabig nga mahigko.
Kay ang bata nga matawo sa imo idedikar idedikar sa Dios bilang isa ka Nazareo, kag indi mo gid pagguntingan ang iya buhok. Pagaluwason niya ang Israel sa mga Filistinhon.”
Ginsugiran sang babayi ang iya bana. Siling niya, “Nagpakita sa akon ang isa ka alagad sang Dios nga daw sa anghel sang Dios. Kinulbaan ako! Wala ako nagpamangkot kon taga-diin siya kag wala man siya nagsugid kon sin-o siya.
Nagsiling siya sa akon nga magabusong ako kag magabata sing lalaki. Ginhambalan man niya ako nga indi na ako mag-inom sang bino ukon sang bisan ano nga klase sang ilimnon nga makahulubog, ukon magkaon sang bisan ano nga pagkaon nga ginakabig nga mahigko, kay ang bata nga matawo sa akon idedikar idedikar sa Dios bilang isa ka Nazareo halin sa iya pagkatawo hasta nga mapatay siya.”
Tungod sini nagpangamuyo si Manoa sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siling niya, “Ginoo, kon mahimo pabalika ang imo alagad nga ginpadala mo para tudluan kami kon ano ang dapat namon nga himuon sa bata kon matawo na siya.”
Ginpamatian sang Dios ang pangamuyo ni Manoa. Nagpakita liwat ang anghel sang Dios sa asawa ni Manoa samtang nagapungko siya sa uma nga nagaisahanon lang.
Sang isa ka tion, nagkadto si Samson sa Timnah, kag may nakita siya didto nga isa ka dalaga nga Filistinhon.
Karon nagkadto ang amay ni Samson sa balay sang balay sang iya mangin umagad, kag didto nagpapunsyon si Samson suno sa kinabatasan nila nga dapat himuon sang nobyo.
Sang didto si Samson ginhatagan siya sang 30 ka bataon nga mga lalaki sa pag-upod sa iya.
Nagsiling si Samson sa ila, “May ipapakot ako sa inyo. Kon mapakot gani ninyo sa indi pa matapos ang pito ka adlaw nga punsyon, hatagan ko kamo sang 30 ka tela nga linen kag 30 man ka malahalon nga bayo.
Pero kon indi gani ninyo mapakot, kamo ang magahatag sa akon sang 30 ka tela nga linen kag 30 ka malahalon nga bayo.” Nagsabat sila, “Sige, ihambal sa amon ang imo paktakon.”
Nagligad ang tatlo ka adlaw pero wala gid nila ini mapakot.
Sang ikaapat na nga adlaw, ginsilingan nila ang asawa ni Samson, “Kombinsiha ang imo bana nga isugid niya sa imo ang sabat sa paktakon para mahibaluan namon. Kon indi, sunugon ka namon pati ang panimalay sang imo amay. Gin-imbitar bala ninyo kami sa sini nga punsyon para kuhaan sang pagkabutang?”
Gani, nagkadto ang babayi kay Samson nga nagahilibion. Siling niya, “Wala mo gali ako ginahigugma. Nagpapakot ka sa akon mga kasimanwa pero wala mo ako ginsugiran sang sabat.” Nagsabat si Samson, “Wala ko gani ginsugid sa akon mga ginikanan, sa imo pa.”
Halin sadto padayon ang hilibion sang babayi hasta sa ikapito nga adlaw. Gani ginsugid na lang ni Samson sa iya ang sabat tungod kay sige ang iya pagpamilit. Kag ang ginsugid ni Samson sa iya ginsugid man niya sa iya mga kasimanwa.
wala kuntani kamo kahibalo sang sabat.”
Sa liwat gin-gamhan sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo si Samson. Nagkadto siya sa Ashkelon kag didto ginpamatay niya ang 30 ka tawo kag ginkuhaan sang mga pagkabutang kag mga bayo. Dayon ginhatag niya ang mga bayo sa mga tawo nga nakasabat sang iya paktakon. Pagkatapos nagpuli siya sa iya mga ginikanan nga akig gid katama tungod sa natabo.
Sang magpuli siya, ginsugiran niya ang iya mga ginikanan. Siling niya, “May nakita ako didto sa Timnah nga isa ka babayi nga Filistinhon. Ipaasawa ninyo siya sa akon.”
Ang asawa ni Samson ginpaasawa sa lalaki nga nag-abay sa ila kasal.
Pero nagsabat ang iya mga ginikanan, “Ngaa gusto mo gid magpangasawa halin sa mga Filistinhon nga wala nagatuo sa Dios?
Wala gali nakahibalo ang mga ginikanan ni Samson nga ang iya desisyon gintugutan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kay nagapangita ang Ginoo Ginoo sang kahigayunan nga magpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon, tungod kay sadto nga tion ang Israel sakop sang mga Filistinhon.
Karon, nagkadto si Samson sa Timnah upod ang iya mga ginikanan. Sang nagapadulong si Samson
Gin-gamhan siya sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginpihak niya ang leon paagi sa iya mga kamot pareho lang nga daw nagapihak siya sang bataon nga kanding. Pero wala niya ini ginsugid sa iya mga ginikanan.
Ginkadtuan dayon ni Samson ang babayi kag gin-estorya. Naluyag na gid siya tapat sa babayi.
Pagkaligad sang mga pila ka adlaw, nagbalik siya sa Timnah para pakaslan ang babayi. Didto siya nag-agi sa dalan nga sa diin ginpatay niya ang leon para tan-awon ang lawas sini. Kag nakita niya ang madamo nga putyukan kag honey sa lawas sang leon.
Ginkandos niya sang iya kamot ang honey kag ginkaon samtang nagalakat. Sang nagkitaay sila sang iya mga ginikanan, ginhatagan niya sila sang honey, kag ginkaon man nila ini. Pero wala niya sila ginsugiran nga ginkuha niya ini sa lawas sang patay nga leon.
Isa sadto ka tion sang tig-alani, nagbisita si Samson sa iya asawa nga may dala nga bataon pa nga kanding. Nagsiling si Samson sa iya ugangan nga lalaki, “Gusto ko nga magsulod sa kuwarto sang akon asawa.” Pero indi magsugot ang iya ugangan.
Gani nagpamangkot sa ila ang mga taga-Juda, “Ngaa nga ginasalakay ninyo kami?” Nagsabat sila, “Agod dakpon namon si Samson kag balusan sa iya ginhimo sa amon.”
Gani ang 3,000 ka lalaki sang Juda nagkadto sa kuweba, sa may banglid sang Etam, kag ginsilingan si Samson, “Wala ka bala kahibalo nga sakop kita sang mga Filistinhon? Karon pati kami naumid sa imo ginhimo.” Nagsabat si Samson, “Ginbalusan ko lang sila sa ginhimo nila sa akon.”
Nagsiling sila, “Nagkadto kami diri sa pagdakop sa imo, para itugyan ka sa mga Filistinhon.” Nagsabat si Samson, “Sugot ako, basta magsumpa kamo sa akon nga indi ninyo ako pagpatyon.”
Nagsiling sila, “Huo, indi ka namon pagpatyon. Gapuson ka lang namon kag itugyan sa ila.” Gani gin-gapos nila siya sing duha ka bag-o nga lubid kag gindala paguwa sa kuweba.
Sang madala na si Samson sa Lehi, ginsugata siya sang mga Filistinhon nga nagahinugyaw. Gin-gamhan sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo si Samson, kag ginpamugto niya ang mga gapos nga daw pareho lang sang hilo nga ginsunog.
Dayon may nakita siya nga sag-ang sang donkey nga sang san-o lang napatay. Ginkuha niya ini kag gin-gamit sa pagpatay sa 1,000 ka Filistinhon.
natumpok ko ini nga mga tawo.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal, ginpilak niya ang sag-ang sang donkey. Gintawag ato nga lugar nga Ramat Lehi.
Gin-uhaw gid katama si Samson. Gani nagpanawag siya sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siling niya, “Ginpadaog mo ako, pero karon daw mapatay ako tungod sa kauhaw kag pagabihagon sang mga Filistinhon nga Filistinhon nga wala nagatuo sa imo.”
Gani ginpaguwa sang Dios ang tubig sa may buho sang duta sa Lehi. Nag-inom si Samson kag nagbalik ang iya kusog. Ini nga tuburan gintawag nga En Hakore.
Nagsiling ang iya ugangan, “Abi ko ginkainitan mo na gid siya, gani ginhatag ko siya sa imo amigo
Ginpanguluhan ni Samson ang mga Israelinhon sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig, sadtong panahon nga ginadumalahan sila nga ginadumalahan sila sang mga Filistinhon.
Nagsiling si Samson, “Sa ginhimo ninyo nga ini, indi ninyo ako mabasol kon ano ang himuon ko sa inyo nga mga Filistinhon.”
Dayon naglakat si Samson kag nagdakop sang 300 ka fox. Gintabid niya ang mga ikog sini sing tagduha-duha kag ginbutangan sang sulo.
Dayon ginsindihan niya ang mga sulo kag ginbuy-an ang mga fox sa mga trigo sang mga Filistinhon. Nasunog ang tanan nga trigo, indi lang ang nabugkos na kundi pati man ang wala pa nabugkos. Nasunog man ang mga talamnan sang ubas kag olibo.
Nagpamangkot ang mga Filistinhon kon sin-o ang naghimo sadto, kag nahibaluan nila nga si Samson. Kag nahibaluan man nila nga ginhimo ato ni Samson tungod kay ginpaasawa sang iya ugangan nga taga-Timnah ang iya asawa sa isa niya ka amigo
Nagsiling si Samson sa mga Filistinhon, “Tungod sa sining ginhimo ninyo, indi ako mag-untat hasta nga makabalos ako sa inyo.”
Gani ginsalakay ni Samson sing puwerte gid ang mga Filistinhon kag madamo ang iya napatay. Pagkatapos nagpalagyo siya kag nagpanago sa kuweba, sa may banglid sang Etam.
Karon, nagkampo ang mga Filistinhon sa Juda, kag ginsalakay nila ang banwa sang banwa sang Lehi.
Isa ka adlaw, Isa ka adlaw, nagkadto si Samson sa Gaza nga isa ka banwa sang Filistinhon nga isa ka banwa sang Filistinhon . May nakita siya didto nga isa ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, kag naghulid siya sa sadto nga babayi.
Nagsiling si Delila kay Samson, “Gin-into mo lang ako; nagbutig ka sa akon. Sige na, sugiri ako kon paano ka magapos.”
Nagsiling si Samson, “Kon gapuson ako sang bag-o nga lubid nga wala pa gid magamit, mangin pareho na lang ang akon kusog sa iban nga mga tawo.”
Gani nagkuha si Delila sang bag-o nga lubid nga wala pa gid magamit kag gin-gapos niya si Samson. May pila ka Filistinhon nga nagapanago sadto sa pihak nga kuwarto. Dayon nagsinggit si Delila, “Samson, may mga Filistinhon nga nag-abot sa pagdakop sa imo!” Pero ginpangbugto lang ni Samson ang higot sa iya butkon nga daw pareho lang sa hilo.
Gani nagsiling liwat si Delila kay Samson, “Hasta subong ginainto mo lang gihapon ako kag ginabutigan. Sige na, sugiri ako kon paano ka magapos.” Nagsiling si Samson, “Kon ihigot mo ang pito ka salapid sang akon buhok sa teral
Gani sang nagakatulog si Samson, ginhigot ni Delila ang pito ka salapid sang buhok ni Samson sa teral, kag nagsinggit dayon, “Samson, may mga Filistinhon nga nag-abot sa pagdakop sa imo.” Nakabugtaw si Samson kag ginpalos niya ang iya buhok sa teral.
Gani nagsiling si Delila sa iya, “Siling mo ginahigugma mo ako, pero indi gali matuod. Tatlo na ka beses nga gin-into mo ako. Wala ka gid nanugid kon diin nagahalin ang imo kusog.”
Adlaw-adlaw niya nga ginapamangkot si Samson hasta sang ulihi natak-an si Samson.
Gani ginsugiran na lang siya ni Samson sang matuod. Siling ni Samson, “Wala gid maguntingi ang akon buhok bisan kaisa lang. Kay halin sang akon pagkatawo, gindedikar na gindedikar na ako sa Dios bilang isa ka Nazareo. Gani kon maguntingan ang akon buhok, mangin pareho na lang ang akon kusog sa iban nga mga tawo.”
Nabatyagan ni Delila nga nagasugid si Samson sing matuod. Gani nagpasugo siya nga hambalan ang mga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon nga magbalik tungod kay nagsugid na sa iya si Samson sing matuod. Gani nagbalik ang mga pangulo, dala ang kuwarta nga ibayad kay Delila.
Ginpatulog ni Delila si Samson sa iya paa, kag sang matulugan na ini, nagtawag siya sang isa ka tawo para guntingon ang pito ka salapid sang buhok ni Samson. Gani nagluya si Samson, kag ginpadakop siya ni Delila.
Nabalitaan sang mga taga-Gaza nga didto si Samson, gani ginpalibutan nila ang banwa kag ginbantayan ang puwertahan sang banwa sa bilog nga gab-i. Wala sila magsalakay sang sadto nga gab-i. Nagdesisyon sila nga patyon nila si Samson sa kaagahon.
Nagsinggit si Delila, “Samson, may mga Filistinhon nga nag-abot sa pagdakop sa imo.” Pagbangon ni Samson abi niya nga makabuhi pa siya pareho sang ginhimo niya sadto. Pero wala siya kahibalo nga wala na nagbulig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya.
Gindakop siya sang mga Filistinhon kag ginlukat ang iya mga mata. Dayon gindala nila siya sa Gaza kag ginkadenahan sang saway. Ginpaobra nila siya sa sulod sang prisohan bilang manuggaling sang uyas.
Pero amat-amat nga nagtubo liwat ang iya buhok.
Isa sina ka bes, nagtilipon ang mga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon para magsaulog kag maghalad sang madamo nga halad sa ila dios nga si Dagon. Sa ila nga pagsaulog nagakanta sila: “Ginpadaog kita sang aton dios kontra kay Samson nga aton kaaway.”
Nagsiling si Samson sa suluguon
Puno sang tawo ang templo. Ato didto ang tanan nga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon. Sa atop lang, may ara sang 3,000 ka tawo, lalaki kag babayi. Nagasinadya sila nga nagatan-aw kay Samson.
Karon, nagpangamuyo si Samson: “O Ginoong Dios Dios , dumduma ako. Kon mahimo, ibalik ang akon kusog bisan kaisa na lang para makabalos ako sa mga Filistinhon sa paglukat nila sang akon mga mata.”
Nagkapot si Samson sa duha ka sentro nga haligi nga nagatukod sa atop sang templo. Ang tuo niya nga kamot ara sa isa ka haligi kag ang wala ara sa isa pa ka haligi.
Pero naghulid si Samson sa babayi hasta sang tungang gab-i lang. Dayon nagbangon siya kag nagkadto sa may puwertahan sang banwa. Ginkaptan niya ang puwertahan kag ginhukas dala ang mga haligi kag mga trangka sini. Dayon ginpas-an niya ini kag gindala sa putokputokan sang bukid nga nagaatubang sa Hebron.
Dayon nagsinggit siya, “Mapatay ako kaupod sang sini nga mga Filistinhon!” Kag gintulod niya ang duha ka haligi sa bug-os niya nga kusog, kag narumpag ang templo sa mga pangulo kag sa tanan nga tawo didto. Mas madamo pa ang iya napatay sang sadto nga tion sang sa nagakabuhi pa siya.
Ang bangkay ni Samson ginkuha sang iya mga utod kag mga paryente kag ginlubong sa ginlubngan sang iya amay nga si Manoa, didto sa tunga-tunga sang Zora kag Eshtaol. Ginpanguluhan ni Samson ang Israel sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig.
Sang ulihi naluyag si Samson sa isa ka babayi nga nagaestar sa Sorek nga ililigan sang tubig. Ang iya ngalan amo si Delila.
Karon, ginkadtuan sang mga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon si Delila kag ginsilingan, “Kombinsiha siya nga isugid niya sa imo ang sekreto kon ngaa puwerte siya kakusog kag kon paano siya mapierdi, para magapos kag mabihag namon siya. Kon mahimo mo ina, ang kada isa sa amon magahatag sa imo sang 1,100 ka bilog nga pilak.”
Gani ginpamangkot ni Delila si Samson. Siling niya, “Sugiri ako sang sekreto kon ngaa puwerte sa imo kakusog. Kag halimbawa, kon may maggapos ukon magdakop sa imo paano niya ini himuon?”
Nagsabat si Samson, “Kon gapuson ako sing pito ka bag-o nga banting sang pana,
Sang mahibaluan ini sang Sang mahibaluan ini sang mga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon, ginhatagan nila si Delila sang pito ka bag-o nga banting sang pana kag gin-gapos niya si Samson.
May pila ka Filistinhon nga Filistinhon nga nagapanago sadto sa pihak nga kuwarto. Dayon nagsinggit si Delila, “Samson, may mga Filistinhon nga nag-abot sa pagdakop sa imo.” Pero ginpangbugto lang ni Samson ang mga banting sang pana nga daw pareho lang sa higot nga nakatandog sa kalayo. Gani wala pa gid nila mahibaluan ang sekreto sang iya kusog.
May isa ka tawo nga nagaestar sa kabukiran sang Efraim nga ang iya ngalan si Micas.
Ginhimo siya ni Micas nga pari, kag didto ginpaestar sa iya balay.
Nagsiling si Micas, “Karon, sigurado ako nga pakamaayuhon ako sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay may pari na ako nga Levita.”
Dayon nagkuha ang iya iloy sang 200 ka pilak kag ginhatag sa platero. Kag gin-gamit ini sang platero nga panghaklap sa kahoy nga imahen. Sang nahuman na, ginbutang ini nga dios-dios sa balay ni Micas.
May kaugalingon nga simbahan si Micas, kag nagpahimo siya sang mga dios-dios kag espesyal nga panapton
Sang sadto nga tion, wala sing hari sa Israel, gani nagapagusto lang ang tagsa-tagsa kon ano ang iya luyag himuon.
May isa ka bataon nga Levita
Isa ka adlaw, naglakat siya para mangita sang elistaran sa iban nga lugar. Sa iya paglakat, nakaagi siya sa balay ni Micas sa kabukiran sang Efraim.
Ginpamangkot siya ni Micas, “Taga-diin ka?” Nagsabat siya, “Taga-Betlehem, nga sakop sang Juda. Kag isa ako ka Levita. Nagapangita ako sang akon maestaran.”
Sadto nga panahon wala sing hari ang Israel. Kag sa amo man nga panahon, ang tribo ni Dan nagapangita sang lugar nga ila maestaran nga mangin ila mismo. Sa mga tribo sang Israel, ang tribo ni Dan ang wala pa makabaton sang ila palanublion nga duta.
Ginhatag sang Dios sa aton ang ini nga duta. Malapad ini kag bugana, kag ara ang tanan nga kinahanglan naton. Kag isa pa, nagasalig gid ang mga pumuluyo sini nga wala sing may mag-ano sa ila.”
Gani, halin sa Zora kag Eshtaol, naglakat ang 600 ka armado nga mga tawo halin sa tribo ni Dan para magpakig-away.
Nagkampo sila sa west sang banwa sang Kiriat Jearim sa Juda. (Amo ina nga hasta subong ang lugar nga ato ginatawag nga Kampo ni Dan.)
Halin didto, nagpadayon sila sa pagpanglakaton hasta nga nakaabot sila sa balay ni Micas, sa kabukiran sang Efraim.
Dayon, atong lima ka lalaki nga nagpang-espiya sa Laish nagsiling sa ila mga kaupod, “Nakahibalo bala kamo nga ang isa sa mga balay diri may espesyal nga panapton
Pagkatapos nga madesisyunan nila kon ano ang ila himuon, Pagkatapos nga madesisyunan nila kon ano ang ila himuon, nagkadto sila sa balay ni Micas kag nagpangamusta sa bataon nga Levita nga nagaestar didto.
Sang makita sadto sang pari nga ginsulod sang lima ka tawo ang balay ni Micas kag ginapanguha ato nga mga butang, nagpamangkot siya sa ila, “Ngaa ginakuha ninyo ina?”
Nagsabat sila, “Hipos ka lang. Mag-upod ka sa amon kay himuon ka namon nga pari kag manuglaygay. Indi ka bala luyag nga mangin pari sang isa ka tribo sang Israel sang sa isa lang ka panimalay?”
Sang naglakat na sila sa pagpangita sang lugar, nakaabot sila sa balay ni Micas sa kabukiran sang Efraim, kag didto sila nagtulog.
Nagustuhan sang pari ang ginsiling sa iya, gani nagbulig siya sa ila sa pagpanguha sang espesyal nga panapton, sang imahen nga nahaklapan sang pilak kag sang iban pa nga mga dios-dios, kag nag-upod siya sa ila.
Sang nagalakat sila, nagauna sa ila ang ila mga kabataan, mga kasapatan, kag mga kagamitan.
Medyo malayo na sila sa balay ni Micas sang mahibaluan ni Micas ang natabo. Gani sang mahibaluan ni Micas ang natabo. Gani gintipon niya ang iya mga kasilingan kag ginlagas ang mga kaliwat ni Dan.
Ginasinggitan nila sila, kag nagbalikid ang mga kaliwat ni Dan kag nagpamangkot kay Micas, “Ano bala ang natabo nga ginalagas ninyo kami?”
Nagsabat si Micas, “Mamangkot pa kamo? Ginkuha ninyo ang mga dios-dios nga akon ginpahimo, pati ang akon akon pari. Wala na sing nabilin sa akon.”
Nagsiling sila, “Maayo pa nga maghipos ka na lang, kay basi mangakig ang iban namon nga kaupod kag patyon ka nila pati ang imo pamilya.”
Kag nagpadayon sila sa paglakat. Nakita ni Micas nga indi niya sila masarangan, gani nagpuli na lang siya.
Nagkadto ang mga kaliwat ni Dan sa Laish dala ang mga dios-dios ni Micas pati ang iya pari. Malinong nga lugar ang Laish, kag nagasalig gid ang mga pumuluyo sini nga wala sing may mag-ano sa ila. Ginsalakay sila sang mga kaliwat ni Dan kag ginpamatay, kag ginsunog ang ila ila banwa.
Wala sing may makabulig sa mga taga-Laish tungod kay malayo sila sa Sidon kag wala sila sing kadampig nga banwa. Ang Laish ara sa kapatagan nga malapit sa Bet Rehob. Sang ulihi ginpatindog liwat ini sang mga kaliwat ni Dan kag ila gin-estaran.
Gin-islan nila sang Dan ang ngalan sini suno sa ngalan sang ila katigulangan nga si Dan, nga isa sa mga anak ni Jacob.
Samtang didto sila, nahibaluan nila nga indi taga-didto atong bataon nga Levita tungod sa iya panghambal. Gani ginpamangkot nila siya, “Ngaa ari ka? Sin-o ang nagdala diri sa imo? Kag ano ang ginahimo mo diri?”
Ginpatindog nila didto ang dios-dios ni Micas ni Micas kag ila ginsimba. Si Jonatan nga anak ni Gershom kag apo ni Moises ang ginhimo nila nga pari. Ang mga kaliwat ni Jonatan amo ang nag-alagad bilang mga pari sa tribo ni Dan hasta sang pagbihag sa mga taga-Israel.
Kag samtang ang Tolda sang Dios didto pa sa Shilo, ang dios-dios ni Micas padayon nga ginasimba sa Dan.
Ginsugiran niya sila sang ginhimo ni Micas sa iya, kag nagsiling siya, “Nagatrabaho ako bilang pari ni Micas, kag ginasuwelduhan niya ako.”
Nagsabat ang mga lalaki, “Kon amo sina, pamangkuta abi ang Dios kon bala mangin madinalag-on ining amon paglakat.”
Nagsabat ang pari, “Indi kamo magpalibog. Ginaupdan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo pagpanglakaton.”
Nagpadayon ining lima ka lalaki kag nakaabot sila sa Laish. Nakita nila nga matawhay ang pagpangabuhi sang mga tawo didto pareho sa mga Sidonhon. Malinong ini nga lugar, kag ara ang tanan nga kinahanglan sang mga tawo. Nagasalig gid ang mga pumuluyo nga wala sing may mag-ano sa ila. Ini nga lugar malayo sa mga Sidonhon, kag wala sila sing kadampig nga banwa.
Sang magbalik ang lima ka lalaki sa Zora kag Eshtaol, ginpamangkot sila sang ila mga kasimanwa kon ano ang ila nakita.
Nagsiling sila, “Dali na, masalakay na kita, kay nakakita kami sang maayo gid nga lugar. Ano, indi pa kamo maghulag? Indi na kita magdugay pa. Salakayon na naton para masakop na naton ini nga duta.
Sang sadto nga panahon nga wala pa sing hari ang Israel, may isa ka Levita
Nagsabat ang Levita, “Indi puwede nga diri kita matulog sa lugar nga indi sakop sang mga Israelinhon. Maderetso kita sa Gibea.
Dali na, tinguhaan ta nga makaabot kita sa Gibea ukon sa Rama, kag didto kita matulog.”
Gani nagpadayon sila sa paglakat. Nagasalop na ang adlaw sang mag-abot sila sa Gibea nga sakop sang tribo ni Benjamin.
Nagsulod sila sa banwa kag nagpungko sa plasa, pero wala gid sing may nag-agda sa ila nga magdayon.
Sang sirom na, may isa ka tigulang nga lalaki nga nagapapuli na halin sa iya obra sa uma. Ini nga tigulang didto anay nagaestar sa kabukiran sang Efraim, pero sang ulihi sa Gibea na siya nag-estar. Ining Gibea sakop sang teritoryo sang tribo ni Benjamin.
Sang makita sang tigulang ang nagpanglakaton nga Levita sa may plasa sang siyudad, ginpalapitan niya kag ginpamangkot, “Taga-diin ka? Kag diin ka makadto?”
Nagsabat ang Levita, “Halin kami sa Betlehem nga sakop sang Juda kag mapuli kami sa amon balay
May pagkaon kag ilimnon kami sang akon asawa kag sang akon suluguon, kag may inugpahalab kami sa amon mga donkey. Gani wala na kami sing iban pa nga kinahanglan.”
Pero nagluib sa iya ang iya asawa, kag nagpuli ini sa balay sang iya mga ginikanan sa Betlehem. Pagkaligad sang apat ka bulan,
Nagsiling ang tigulang, “Indi kamo magtulog diri sa plasa. Didto na lang kamo sa akon balay. Ako ang bahala sa tanan ninyo nga kinahanglanon.”
Gani nag-upod sila sa tigulang. Pag-abot nila, ginpakaon sang tigulang ang ila mga donkey. Kag pagkatapos nila panghinaw sang ila mga tiil, nagkaon sila kag nag-inom.
Sang nagakinalipay sila, gulpi lang nga ginpalibutan sang mga malain nga mga tawo ang balay kag ginpukpok ang puwertahan. Nagasinggit sila sa tigulang nga tag-iya sang balay, “Paguwaa ang bisita mo nga lalaki kay magpakighilawas kami sa iya.”
Nagsabat ang tigulang, “Mga abyan, bisita ko ini nga tawo, gani indi ninyo paghimua inang mahigko kag makahuluya nga butang.
Ihatag ko sa inyo ang akon anak nga dalaga kag ang asawa sang sini nga tawo, kag pagusto kamo kon ano ang inyo nga himuon sa ila. Basta indi lang ninyo paghimua inang makahuluya nga butang sa akon bisita.”
Wala namati ang mga tawo sa iya, gani ginbutong sang Levita ang iya asawa kag ginpaguwa. Ginhimuslan nila siya kag gin-abusuhan sa bilog nga gab-i hasta mag-aga. Kag sang kaagahon, ginpalakat nila ang babayi.
Nagbalik ang babayi sa balay nga ginadayunan sang iya bana. Natumba siya sa may puwertahan, kag didto siya hasta sa pagbutlak sang adlaw.
Sang sina nga aga nagbugtaw ang iya bana. Ginbuksan niya ang puwertahan para maglakat na, kag nakita niya ang iya asawa nga nagahamyang kag ang mga kamot sini nagauntay pa sa puwertahan.
Nagsiling ang Levita, “Bangon na kay mapuli na kita.” Pero patay na gali ang babayi, gani ginkarga niya ang bangkay sa iya donkey kag naglakat.
Pag-abot niya sa ila, ginpang-utod-utod niya sa dose ka parte ang bangkay sang iya asawa kag ginpadala sa dose ka tribo sang Israel.
nagdesisyon ang Levita nga apason niya ang iya asawa kag kombinsihon nga mag-upod liwat sila. Gani naglakat siya upod ang isa niya ka suluguon kag duha ka donkey. Pag-abot niya didto, ginpadayon siya sang babayi. Sang makita siya sang amay sang babayi, gin-abiabi gid siya.
Nagsiling ang tanan nga nakakita sini, “Wala pa gid sing may natabo nga pareho sini halin sang paghalin sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt. Ano ayhan ang maayo ta nga himuon?”
Ginpilit siya sang iya ugangan nga magpabilin didto. Gani nagpabilin siya sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw nga didto man nagakaon, nagainom, kag nagatulog.
Sang ikaapat na nga adlaw, aga pa gid nagbangon ang Levita kag ang iya suluguon, kag naghimos sila nga magpuli. Pero nagsiling sa iya ang iya ugangan nga lalaki, “Kaon anay kamo antes maglakat.”
Gani nagkaon kag nag-inom sila nga duha. Sang ulihi nagsiling ang iya ugangan, “Diri lang anay kamo sa gab-i kay magkinalipay kita.”
Indi kuntani siya magsugot pero ginpilit gid siya sang iya ugangan, gani nagpabilin na lang sila.
Pagkaaga, naghimos sila nga maglakat, pero nagsiling naman ang iya ugangan, “Kaon anay kamo kag karon na lang kamo sa hapon maglakat.” Gani nagkaon anay sila nga duha.
Sang malakat na ang Levita, ang iya asawa, kag ang iya suluguon, nagsiling ang iya ugangan, “Hapon na kag dugay-dugay dulom na. Maayo pa diri na lang kamo liwat matulog. Magkinalipay anay kamo diri, kag buwas aga pa kamo magpuli.”
Ang tanan nga Israelinhon halin sa Dan hasta sa Beersheba kag halin sa Gilead nagtipon sa Mizpa, sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang ikanapulo nga parte sang tanan nga lalaki sa kada tribo amo ang mag-asikaso sa pagkaon sang mga soldado. Ang nabilin amo ang magbalos sa taga-Gibea tungod sa makahuluya nga ginhimo nila sa Israel.”
Gani nag-isa ang mga lalaki sang Israel sa pagsalakay sa Gibea.
Nagpadala sang mga mensahero ang mga tribo sang Israel sa bilog nga tribo sang Benjamin sa pagsiling, “Ano ining kalautan nga natabo dira sa inyo?
Karon, itugyan ninyo sa amon ang mga malain nga mga taga-Gibea nga naghimo sini para patyon namon sila para madula ini nga kalautan sa Israel.” Pero wala ginsapak sang mga Benjaminhon ang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon.
Sa baylo nagguwa sila sa ila mga banwa kag nagtipon sa Gibea para magpakig-away sa ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon.
Sadto mismo nga adlaw, nakatipon ang mga Benjaminhon sang 26,000 ka soldado wala labot sa 700 ka pinili nga mga soldado nga taga-Gibea.
Ining 700 nga ginpili puro mga walis kag ang kada isa sa ila tanda gid maglabyog sang bato.
Ang mga Israelinhon ya, wala labot sa tribo ni Benjamin, nakatipon sang 400,000 ka soldado nga eksperiensyado sa pagpakig-away.
Nagtaklad ang mga Israelinhon sa Betel kag nagpamangkot sa Dios kon ano nga tribo ang una nga magsalakay sa mga Benjaminhon. Kag suno sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang tribo ni Juda.
Gani pagkasunod nga adlaw, aga pa gid nagkampo ang mga Israelinhon malapit sa Gibea.
Didto man ang pangulo sang kada tribo sang Israel sang pagtipon sang katawhan sang Dios. 400,000 sila tanan nga soldado nga armado sang espada.
Nagkadto sila sa Gibea kag nagpuwesto sa pagpakig-away sa mga Benjaminhon.
Nagguluwa ang mga Benjaminhon sa Gibea sa pagpakig-away sa ila. Kag sa sina lang nga adlaw, 22,000 ka Israelinhon ang napatay sang mga Benjaminhon.
Sang masunod nga adlaw, ginsalakay nila ang mga Benjaminhon.
Pero nagguwa liwat ang mga Benjaminhon sa Gibea kag ginsugata ang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon. Kag sa sini nga tion, napatay naman nila ang 18,000 ka Israelinhon nga armado tanan sang espada.
Gani nagtaklad liwat ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa Betel kag naghibi sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagpuasa sila hasta maggab-i kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Gani ginpalibutan sang mga Israelinhon ang Gibea.
Karon nagpamangkot ang mga Israelinhon, “Paano natabo ini nga kalautan?”
Nagplastar liwat sila sa amo gihapon nga lugar. Ikatatlo na ini nga adlaw sang ila pagsalakay.
Sa liwat ginsugata sila sang mga Benjaminhon nga nagapaguwa halin sa banwa. Kag pareho sang natabo sang nagligad nga mga inadlaw, may mga napatay sila nga mga Israelinhon. 30 ka Israelinhon ang napatay sa kaumahan kag sa mga dalan pakadto sa Betel kag sa Gibea.
Tungod nga nagapalagyo ang mga Israelinhon, abi sang mga Benjaminhon madaog naman nila ang mga Israelinhon. Wala sila kahibalo nga nagapalagas lang gali ang mga Israelinhon para dal-on sila palayo sa banwa.
Sang pag-abot sang mga Israelinhon sa Baal Tamar, nagplastar sila didto samtang ang mga nagaplastar sa palibot
10,000 sila tanan nga puro mga pinili nga mga soldado sang Israel. Ginsalakay nila ang Gibea, kag puwerte gid ang inaway. Wala kahibalo ang mga Benjaminhon nga dali na lang ang ila katapusan.
Ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon, kag sadto nga adlaw nakapatay sila sang 25,100 ka Benjaminhon nga armado tanan sang espada.
Nagpalagyo ang dako nga grupo sang mga soldado sang Israel para makasalakay ang mga soldado nga ginpaplastar nila sa palibot sang banwa sang Gibea.
Samtang nagalagas ang mga Benjaminhon, Samtang nagalagas ang mga Benjaminhon, gulpi nga ginsalakay sang mga nagapalibot nga mga soldado ang Gibea kag ginpamatay ang tanan nga tawo didto.
Antes sina, naghambalanay na sila nga kon may makita gani ang mga nagapalagyo nga mga Israelinhon nga madamol nga aso sa Gibea,
mabalik sila sa pagpakig-away. Ang mga Benjaminhon sadto nakapatay na sang 30 ka Israelinhon, gani abi nila napierdi naman nila ang mga Israelinhon.
Nagsiling ang Levita nga bana sang babayi nga ginpatay, “Nag-agi ako kag ang akon asawa sa Gibea nga sakop sang Benjamin para didto matulog.
Sang ulihi nagtub-ok ang madamol nga aso sa Gibea. Sang magbalikid ang mga Benjaminhon, nakita nila ang madamol nga aso halin sa banwa.
Dayon nagliso ang mga Israelinhon kag ginsalakay nila ang mga Benjaminhon. Hinadlukan ang mga Benjaminhon tungod kay nareyalisar nila nga dali na lang ang ila katapusan.
Nagpalagyo sila pakadto sa kamingawan, pero ginlagas sila sang mga Israelinhon nga nagguwa sa banwa.
Ginlibutan sila sang mga Israelinhon kag wala pag-untati lagas hasta sa east sang Gibea.
18,000 ka maayo nga mga soldado sang mga Benjaminhon ang napatay.
Ang iban nalagyo pakadto sa kamingawan sa Bato sang Rimon. Pero 5,000 ang napatay sa ila sa dalan. Padayon sila nga ginlagas sang mga Israelinhon hasta sa Gidom kag nakapatay pa ang mga Israelinhon sang 2,000.
Sa kabilugan mga 25,000 ka Benjaminhon ang napatay sadto nga adlaw. Mga maayo sila nga mga soldado kag armado sang espada.
Pero may 600 ka Benjaminhon nga nakapalagyo pakadto sa Bato sang Rimon, kag didto sila nagtiner sa sulod sang apat ka bulan.
Dayon nagbalik ang mga Israelinhon sa mga banwa sang Benjamin kag ginpamatay nila ang nagkalabilin nga buhi, pati ang mga kasapatan. Ginsunog nila ang tanan nga banwa sang mga Benjaminhon sang mga Benjaminhon nga ila maagyan.
Sang gab-i na, ang balay nga amon gindayunan ginpalibutan sang mga lalaki nga mga taga-Gibea. Patyon kuntani nila ako; pero sa baylo, ginlugos nila ang akon asawa hasta nga napatay siya.
Gani gindala ko puli ang iya bangkay kag ginpang-utod-utod kag ginpadala sa dose ka tribo sang Israel, kay puwerte kalain kag makahuluya ang ila ginhimo diri sa Israel.
Ti, kita tanan nga Israelinhon, ano karon ang aton himuon?”
Nag-isa ang mga tawo nga nagsiling, “Wala sing isa sa aton nga magpuli.
Ang aton himuon, magabot-gabot kita kon sin-o sa aton ang magsalakay sa Gibea.
Didto sa Mizpa nagpromisa ang mga Israelinhon nga indi gid nila pag-ipaasawa ang ila mga anak nga babayi sa mga Benjaminhon.
Kag didto nakakita sila sang 400 ka dalaga nga birhen kag gindala nila ini sa ila kampo sa Shilo nga sakop sang Canaan.
Pagkatapos nagpadala ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sang mga mensahero sang Israel sang mga mensahero sa mga Benjaminhon nga nagpanago sa Bato sang Rimon. Ginhambalan sila sang mga mensahero Ginhambalan sila sang mga mensahero nga handa na nga magpakig-abyan sa ila ang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon ang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon .
Gani nagpalauli ang mga Benjaminhon kag ginhatag sa ila sang mga Israelinhon ang mga dalaga nga taga-Jabesh Gilead. Pero kulang pa ang mga dalaga para sa ila.
Nasubuan gid ang mga Israelinhon sa natabo sa mga Benjaminhon, tungod kay ginseparar sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Benjaminhon sa mga tribo sang Israel.
Gani nag-estoryahanay ang mga manugdumala sang komunidad sang Israel sang Israel . Siling nila, “Wala na sing may nabilin nga babayi nga Benjaminhon. Ano bala ang aton himuon para makapangasawa ang nabilin nila nga mga lalaki?
Kinahanglan nga may mga kaliwat sila para indi madula ang tribo ni Benjamin.
Pero indi man puwede nga ipaasawa ta sa ila ang aton mga anak nga babayi tungod kay nakapromisa na kita nga ang maghimo sini pakamalauton.”
Dayon nadumduman nila nga dali na lang gali ang tuigan nga piesta para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ginahiwat sa Shilo. (Ining Shilo ara sa north sang Betel, sa south sang Lebona, kag sa east sang dalan nga halin sa Betel pakadto sa Shekem.)
Dayon nagkadto ang mga Israelinhon sa Betel kag naghibi sing tudo sa presensya sang Dios hasta maggab-i.
Ginsilingan nila ang mga Benjaminhon, “Magpanago kamo sa mga talamnan sang ubas,
kag bantayan ninyo ang mga dalaga nga taga-Shilo. Kon mag-agi sila didto para magsaot sa piesta, magguwa kamo sa talamnan kag masigdakop sang inyo pangasaw-on kag dal-on sa inyo lugar.
Kon magreklamo gani sa amon ang ila mga amay ukon utod nga lalaki, amo ini ang amon isiling sa ila, ‘Palihog pabay-i lang ninyo sila tungod kay kulang ang mga dalaga nga nakuha ta sang pagsalakay naton sa Jabesh Gilead. Wala kamo sing salabton tungod nga wala man kamo nagtugot nga pangasaw-on sang mga Benjaminhon ang inyo mga anak nga babayi.’ ”
Gani ginhimo ini sang mga Benjaminhon. Nagsigdakop sila sang mga dalaga nga nagasaot, kag gindala puli bilang asawa. Pag-abot nila sa ila duta, ginpatindog nila liwat ang ila mga banwa kag didto nag-estar.
Nagpuli man ang iban pa nga mga Israelinhon sa ila kaugalingon nga duta, kag sa ila kaugalingon nga tribo kag pamilya.
Nagsiling sila, “O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, ngaa bala natabo ini? Karon nakulangan na sang isa ka tribo ang Israel!”
Pagkaaga, naghimo sila sang halaran kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Dayon nagpamangkot sila, “May tribo bala sang Israel nga wala makaupod sa aton sang nagtipon kita sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Mizpa?” Sang sadto nga tion, nakapromisa na sila nga patyon ang indi magkadto didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nasubuan gid ang mga Israelinhon sa ila kadugo nga mga Benjaminhon. Siling nila, “Nabuhinan sang isa ka tribo ang Israel.
Diin bala kita mangita sang ipaasawa sa mga nabilin nga mga Benjaminhon, kay nakapromisa na kita sa Ginoo Ginoo nga indi gid naton pag-ipaasawa sa ila ang aton mga anak nga babayi?”
Sang nagpamangkot sila kon may tribo sang Israel nga wala makaupod sang nagtipon sila sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Mizpa, nasapwan nila nga wala makaupod ang mga taga-Jabesh Gilead.
Tungod kay sang gin-isip ang mga tawo, wala didto sing bisan isa lang nga taga-Jabesh Gilead.
kag nagsiling kay Noemi, “Maupod kami sa imo sa pagbalik mo sa imo mga kasimanwa.”
ano, hulaton bala ninyo sila nga magdalagko? Indi lang bala anay kamo magpamana tungod lang sa ila? Indi puwede, mga anak. Sa pagkamatuod, mas mapait ang akon kabuhi sang sa inyo, kay ginapaantos ako sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Naghibi naman sila sing tudo. Dayon naghalok si Orpah sa iya ugangan kag nagpuli,
Nagsiling si Noemi, “Ti ato na ang imo bilas, nagbalik na siya sa iya mga kasimanwa kag sa iya dios,
Pero nagsabat si Ruth, “Indi ako pagpilita sa pagbiya sa imo, kay bisan diin ka magkadto didto man ako makadto, kag bisan diin ka mag-estar didto man ako maestar. Ang imo mga kasimanwa mangin akon man nga kasimanwa, kag ang imo Dios mangin akon man nga Dios.
Kon diin ka mapatay, didto man ako mapatay kag didto man ilubong. Kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sing puwerte gid kon magbulag ako sa imo, luwas lang kon mapatay na ako.”
Sang makita ni Noemi nga desidido gid si Ruth sa pag-upod sa iya, naghipos na lang siya.
Gani nagpadayon sila nga duha sa paglakat hasta nga nakaabot sila sa Betlehem. Pag-abot nila didto, naggirinual ang mga tawo. Nagsiling ang mga babayi, “Si Noemi gid bala ini?”
Nagsiling si Noemi sa ila, “Indi ninyo ako pagtawga nga Noemi,
Paghalin ko diri ara sa akon ang tanan, pero ginpabalik ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga wala-wala gid. Gani indi na ninyo ako pagtawga nga Noemi, kay ginpaantos ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.”
Nagasugod pa lang ang tig-alani sang barley sang pag-abot ni Noemi sa Betlehem upod sang iya umagad nga si Ruth nga Moabnon.
napatay si Elimelec, gani si Noemi na lang ang nabilin kag ang iya duha ka anak.
Sang ulihi nagpangasawa ang iya mga anak sang mga Moabnon. Ang ngalan sang isa amo si Orpah kag ang isa amo si Ruth. Pagkaligad sang mga napulo ka tuig,
napatay man si Mahlon kag si Kilion, gani si Noemi na lang ang nabilin.
Sang mabalitaan ni Noemi nga gindumdom sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya katawhan paagi sa paghatag sa ila sang maayo nga patubas, nagpreparar siya kag ang iya mga umagad sa pagbalik sa Juda.
Kag sang nagapanglakaton na sila pabalik sa Juda,
nagsiling si Noemi sa iya duha ka umagad, “Balik na lang kamo sa inyo iloy. Kabay pa nga ipakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kaayo sa inyo, subong nga ginpakita ninyo ang inyo kaayo sa inyo inyo nagtaliwan nga mga bana nga mga bana kag amo man sa akon.
Dayon ginhalukan sila ni Noemi. Naghibi sila sing tudo
Nagluhod si Ruth kay Boaz bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod kag nagsiling, “Ngaa maayo ka gid sa akon nga isa man lang ako ka pangayaw?”
Nagsabat si Boaz, “May nakasugid sa akon sang tanan nga ginhimo mo sa imo ugangan nga babayi halin pa sang pagkapatay sang imo bana, kon paano nga ginbayaan mo ang imo amay kag iloy kag ang lugar nga sa diin ka natawo para mag-estar upod sa mga tawo nga indi mo kilala.
Gani Gani kabay pa nga balusan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo ginhimo. Kabay pa nga dako nga balos ang imo mabaton halin sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga imo ginadangpan.”
Nagsiling si Ruth, “Maayo ka gid sa akon, sir, kay ginlipay mo ako kag ginhambalan sing maayo bisan indi ako isa sang imo mga ulipon.”
Sang tion na sa pagkaon, nagsiling si Boaz kay Ruth, “Dali, magkuha ka sang pagkaon kag isawsaw sa langgaw.” Gani nagpungko si Ruth upod sa mga manug-ani, kag ginduhulan siya ni Boaz sang sinanlag nga uyas. Nagkaon siya hasta nga nabusog siya, kag may nabilin pa siya.
Sang magtindog na si Ruth para magpangsipot liwat liwat sang mga uhay, nagsugo si Boaz sa iya mga tinawo, “Bisan magpangsipot pa si Ruth sa may mga binugkos nga mga uhay indi ninyo siya pagpakahuy-i.
Kuhaan pa gani ninyo siya sang mga uhay sa mga binugkos kag ibilin sa iya, kag indi ninyo siya pagsawaya.”
Gani nagpangsipot si Ruth sang mga uhay hasta magsirom. Kag sang malinas na niya ang iya nasipot nga barley, mga tunga ini sa sako.
Gindala niya ini puli sa banwa kag ginpakita sa iya ugangan
Ginsugiran ni Ruth si Noemi nga didto siya nagpangsipot sa uma sang isa ka tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Boaz.
Nagsiling si Noemi kay Ruth, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon si Boaz sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginapakita niya ang iya kaayo sa mga tawo nga buhi pa kag sa mga patay na.” Kag nagsiling pa gid siya, “Inang si Boaz malapit ta nga paryente; isa siya sa may responsibilidad nga mag-atipan sa aton.”
Nagsiling si Ruth kay Noemi, “Nagsiling pa gani si Boaz sa akon nga sa iya lang mga tinawo ako maupod sa pagpangsipot hasta matapos ang tanan niya nga alanihon.”
Nagsiling si Noemi kay Ruth, “Anak, maayo gid man kon mag-upod ka sa iya mga suluguon nga babayi, kay basi kon ano pa ang matabo sa imo sa iban nga uma.”
Gani nag-upod si Ruth sa mga suluguon nga babayi ni Boaz. Nagpangsipot siya sang mga uhay hasta nga natapos ang tig-alani sang barley kag sang trigo. Kag padayon siya nga nag-estar upod sa iya ugangan.
Karon, nag-abot si Boaz halin sa Betlehem kag gintamyaw niya ang mga manug-ani, “Kabay pa nga buligan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo !” Nagsabat ang mga manug-ani, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo !”
Nagpamangkot dayon si Boaz sa suluguon nga gintugyanan niya sa pagdumala sa mga manug-ani, “Sin-o inang bataon nga babayi?”
Nagsabat ang suluguon, “Siya ang Moabnon nga nag-upod kay Noemi sang pagbalik niya halin sa Moab.
Nagpangabay siya sa akon nga tugutan ko siya sa pagpangsipot sang mga uhay nga ginbilin sang mga manug-ani. Sige-sige gid ang iya obra halin kaina sang aga hasta subong. Nagpahuway lang siya sang makadali sa payag.”
Nagsiling si Boaz kay Ruth, “Day, indi ka na magkadto sa iban nga uma sa pagpangsipot sang mga uhay. Diri ka na lang magpangsipot upod sa akon mga suluguon nga babayi.
Bantayi kon diin nagapangani ang akon mga tinawo kag magsunod ka sa mga suluguon nga babayi. Ginsilingan ko na ang akon mga tinawo nga indi ka nila pag-anhon. Kag kon uhawon ka, mag-inom ka lang sa mga banga nga ginsag-uban sang akon mga tinawo.”
Isa ka adlaw, nagsiling si Noemi kay Ruth, “Anak, gusto ko nga makapamana ka na para sa imo kaayuhan.
Nagsiling si Boaz, “Day, kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ang pag-unong nga ginpakita mo subong sa imo pamilya sa imo pamilya mas sobra pa sa ginpakita mo sadto.
Gani indi ka magkabalaka day, kay himuon ko ang tanan nga ginpangabay mo. Kay nahibaluan sang tanan ko nga mga kasimanwa nga maayo ka nga babayi.
Matuod nga malapit mo ako nga paryente nga may responsibilidad sa pag-atipan sa imo, pero may ara pa nga tawo nga mas malapit mo pa gid nga paryente sang sa akon.
Pabilin ka diri sa bilog nga gab-i, kag buwas sa aga tan-awon ta kon batunon niya ang iya responsibilidad sa imo. Kon magsugot siya, ti maayo; pero kon indi gani, ginasumpa ko sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga batunon ko ang responsibilidad ko sa imo. Sige, diri ka lang tulog hasta mag-aga.”
Gani nagtulog si Ruth sa tiilan dampi ni Boaz hasta mag-aga, pero madulumdulom pa nagbangon si Ruth para indi siya makilala, kay indi gusto ni Boaz nga may makahibalo nga nagkadto si Ruth sa iya didto sa linasan.
Nagsiling si Boaz kay Ruth kay Ruth , “Dal-a diri sa akon ang imo pangtabon nga panapton kag humlada.” Ginhumlad ini ni Ruth, kag ginbubuan dayon ni Boaz sang mga anom ka kilo
Pag-abot ni Ruth sa iya ugangan, ginpamangkot siya, “Kamusta, anak?” Ginsugiran siya dayon ni Ruth sang tanan nga ginhimo ni Boaz.
Kag nagsiling pa gid si Ruth, “Indi gusto ni Boaz nga magpuli ako sa imo nga wala sing dala, gani ginhatagan niya ako sining mga anom ka kilo nga barley.”
Nagsiling si Noemi, “Hulat ka lang, anak, hasta mahibaluan mo kon ano gid ang matabo, kay indi gid mag-untat si Boaz hasta nga mapatigayon niya subong nga adlaw ang ginpangabay mo sa iya.”
Nadumduman mo bala si Boaz nga aton paryente, nga ang iya mga suluguon nga babayi nakaupod mo sa pag-obra? Abi mo, karon sa gab-i magapahangin siya sang barley.
Gani magpaligo ka, magpahamot, kag isuksok ang matahom matahom mo nga bayo. Magkadto ka dayon sa linasan, pero indi ka magpakita sa iya hasta makatapos siya kaon kag inom.
Kon matulog na gani siya, bantayan mo kon diin siya mahigda. Kag kon matulugan na siya, kadtui siya kag alsaha ang habol sa iya tiilan kag didto ka magtulog.
Nagsabat si Ruth, “Himuon ko ang tanan mo nga ginsiling.”
Gani nagdulhog siya sa linasan para himuon ang tanan nga ginsiling sang iya ugangan sa iya.
Sang nakatapos na si Boaz kaon kag inom, maayo gid ang iya pamatyag. Naghigda siya sa kilid sang tinumpok nga mga uyas nga mga uyas para magtulog. Hinay-hinay nga nagpalapit si Ruth sa iya kag gin-alsa ang habol sa iya tiilan kag naghigda didto.
Sang mga tungang gab-i na, nakabugtaw si Boaz, kag sang paghiwod
Nagpamangkot si Boaz, “Sin-o ka?” Nagsabat siya, “Ako si Ruth. Malapit mo ako nga paryente nga dapat mo atipanon. Karon, tabuni ako sang imo bayo sa pagpakita nga pangasaw-on kag atipanon mo ako sa pagpakita nga pangasaw-on kag atipanon mo ako .”
Karon, nagkadto si Boaz sa puwertahan sang banwa
Kag dugang pa gid, pangasaw-on ko si Ruth nga Moabnon, nga balo ni Mahlon, para magapabilin ang duta ni Mahlon sa iya pamilya.
Nagsabat ang mga manugdumala sang banwa kag ang tanan nga tawo didto sa puwertahan, “Huo, mga saksi kami. Kabay pa nga ang imo pangasaw-on himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga pareho kay Raquel kag kay Lea nga nakapamata nga nakapamata , nga amo ang nangin katawhan sang Israel. Kabay pa nga magmanggaranon ka sa Efrata kag mangin bantog sa Betlehem.
Kabay pa nga ang mga kabataan nga ihatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo paagi sa sini nga babayi magapabantog sa imo pamilya pareho sa pamilya ni Perez, ang anak ni Juda kay Tamar.”
Gani ginpangasawa ni Boaz si Ruth, kag ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magbusong si Ruth. Sang ulihi nagbata siya sing lalaki.
Nagsiling ang mga babayi kay Noemi, “Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo ! Ginhatagan ka niya subong sang apo nga magaatipan sa imo. Kabay pa nga mangin bantog siya sa Israel!
Pabaskugon kag atipanon niya ikaw kon tigulang ka na gid, kay anak siya sang imo umagad nga nagahigugma gid sa imo sobra pa sa paghigugma sang pito ka anak nga lalaki.”
Ginakuha permi ni Noemi ang bata kag ginasabak. Siya ang manug-atipan sang bata.
Nagsiling ang mga babayi nga kasilingan ni Noemi, “May apo na si Noemi nga lalaki!” Gin-ngalanan nila ang bata nga Obed. Kag sang dako na Kag sang dako na si Obed, may anak siya nga si Jesse. Kag si Jesse amo ang amay ni David.
Si Perez amay ni Hezron,
si Hezron amay ni Ram, si Ram amay ni Aminadab,
Dayon ginpatipon ni Boaz ang napulo ka manugdumala sang banwa kag ginpapungko man didto. Kag sang nagpungko na sila,
si Aminadab amay ni Nashon, si Nashon amay ni Salmon,
si Salmon amay ni Boaz, si Boaz amay ni Obed,
si Obed amay ni Jesse, kag si Jesse amay ni David.
nagsiling si Boaz sa iya paryente, “Nagbalik na si Noemi halin sa Moab, kag gusto niya nga ibaligya ang duta sang aton paryente nga si Elimelec.
Nahunahunaan ko nga ipahibalo ini sa imo. Gani, kon gusto mo, bakla ini sa presensya sang mga manugdumala sang akon mga kasimanwa kag sang iban pa nga nagapungko diri. Pero kon indi mo gusto, siling lang, para mahibaluan ko. Sa matuod lang, ikaw ang una nga may responsibilidad sa pagbakal sini, kag sunod lang ako.” Nagsiling ang tawo, “Sige, baklon ko ina.”
Pero nagsiling si Boaz, “Sa adlaw nga baklon mo ang duta kay Noemi, kinahanglan nga pangasaw-on mo man ang Moabnon nga balo nga si Ruth,
Nagsabat ang tawo, “Kon amo sina indi ko na lang pagbaklon ang duta kay basi magkaproblema pa ako sa akon kaugalingon nga duta. Ikaw na lang ang magbakal kay indi ko mahimo ina.”
Sadto nga panahon sa Israel, para masiguro ang pagbakal sang duta ukon ang pagsaylo sang kinamatarong sa pagbakal sang duta, ubahon sang isa ka tawo ang iya sandalyas kag ihatag sa isa. Amo ini ang ginahimo sa Israel sa pagpamatuod nga sigurado na ang transaksyon.
Gani sang pagsiling sang tawo kay Boaz, “Ikaw na lang ang magbakal sang duta,” gin-uba niya dayon ang iya sandalyas kag ginhatag kay Boaz.
Nagsiling dayon si Boaz sa mga manugdumala sang banwa kag sa tanan nga tawo didto, “Mga saksi kamo subong nga adlaw nga baklon ko na kay Noemi ang tanan nga kadutaan ni Elimelec, nga ginpanubli nga ginpanubli ni Kilion kag ni Mahlon.
May isa ka tawo nga kaliwat ni Zuf nga ang iya ngalan si Elkana. Ini siya nagaestar sa Rama sa kabukiran sang Efraim. Anak siya ni Jeroham nga anak ni Elihu. Si Elihu anak ni Tohu nga anak ni Zuf nga taga-Efraim.
Nagpanumpa si Hana sa Ginoo Ginoo nga nagasiling, “O Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, tan-awa ang akon pag-antos. Dumduma ako nga imo suluguon kag indi gid ako pagkalimti. Kon hatagan mo ako sang anak nga lalaki, ihatag ko siya sa imo para mag-alagad siya sa imo sa bilog niya nga kabuhi. Kag bilang tanda sang iya bug-os nga pag-alagad sa imo, bilang tanda sang iya bug-os nga pag-alagad sa imo, indi pagguntingan ang iya buhok.”
Gani nagsiling siya sa iya, “Hasta san-o ka pa nga magpahubog? Abi untati na ina!”
Nagsabat si Hana, “Indi ako hubog, sir, kag wala ako makainom sang bisan ano nga klase sang ilimnon. Ginapautwas ko lang sa Ginoo Ginoo ang puwerte nga kalisod nga akon ginabatyag.
Indi ako pagkabiga nga isa ka malain nga babayi. Nagapangamuyo ako diri tungod sa akon puwerte nga kalisod.”
Nagsabat si Eli, “Lakat, kag indi ka na magpalibog. Kag kabay pa nga ang Dios sang Israel magahatag sang imo ginapangayo sa iya.”
Nagsiling si Hana, “Sir, salamat sa imo kaayo sa akon.” Naglakat siya dayon, kag nagkaon na siya kag wala na nagpangasubo.
Pagkaaga, aga pa gid nagbangon si Elkana kag ang iya pamilya kag nagsimba sila sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon nagpuli sila sa ila balay sa Rama. Naghulid si Elkana kay Hana, kag ginsabat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pangamuyo ni Hana nga hatagan siya sang bata.
Si Elkana may duha ka asawa nga amo si Hana kag si Penina. May mga anak si Penina pero si Hana ya wala.
Gani nagbusong siya, kag sang ulihi nagbata sing lalaki. Gin-ngalanan niya siya nga Samuel,
Karon, nag-abot naman ang tion nga si Elkana kag ang iya bilog nga pamilya magahalad sa Ginoo Ginoo suno sa ila ginahimo kada tuig. Amo man ini ang tion nga magahalad siya sa pagtuman sang iya panaad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero wala mag-upod si Hana. Nagsiling siya sa iya bana, “Kon malutas na ang bata, dal-on ko siya sa balay sang balay sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ihalad sa iya, kag didto siya magaestar sa bilog niya nga kabuhi.”
Nagsabat si Elkana sa iya, “Himua kon ano ang maayo para sa imo. Pabilin ka lang diri hasta nga malutas mo siya. Kag kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang imo ginpromisa sa iya.” Gani nagpabilin si Hana kag gin-atipan niya ang iya bata.
Sang malutas na ang bata, gindala siya ni Hana sa balay sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Shilo. Nagdala man siya sang tatlo ka tuig nga turo nga baka, tunga sa sako nga harina, kag bino nga nasulod sa panit nga suludlan.
Pagkatapos nga maihaw ang baka gindala nila si Samuel kay Eli.
Nagsiling si Hana kay Eli, “Kon nadumduman mo pa, sir, ako ang babayi nga nagtindog diri sadto nga nagapangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpangayo ko ini nga bata sa Ginoo Ginoo kag ginhatag niya ang akon ginpangayo.
Gani karon ihalad ko siya sa Ginoo Ginoo . Magaalagad siya sa Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog niya nga kabuhi.” Dayon ginsimba nila
Kada tuig nagakadto si Elkana kag ang iya pamilya kag ang iya pamilya sa Shilo sa pagsimba kag sa paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom. Ang mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Shilo amo ang duha ka anak ni Eli nga si Hofni kag si Finehas.
Kada maghalad si Elkana, ginapartida niya ang iban nga parte sang iya halad kay Penina kag sa ila mga kabataan.
Pero ginadoble niya ang parte ni Hana tungod kay ginahigugma gid niya siya bisan pa nga indi siya makabata kay ginhimo siya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga baw-as.
Kag tungod nga indi siya makabata, permi siya ginapaakig kag ginapakahuy-an ni Penina nga iya ribal.
Amo ini ang nagakatabo kada tuig. Kada kadto ni Hana sa balay sang Ginoo Ginoo ginapaakig siya ni Penina hasta nga maghibi na lang siya kag indi na magkaon.
Nagasiling si Elkana sa iya, “Ngaa nagahibi ka? Ngaa indi ka magkaon? Ngaa nagapangasubo ka? Indi bala nga mas labi pa ako sa imo sang sa napulo ka bata?”
Nagakalipay ako sa pagluwas niya sa akon.
ang iya pinili nga hari.”
Dayon nagpuli si Elkana kag si Hana kag si Hana sa Rama. Pero ginbilin nila si Samuel para mag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo sa idalom sang pag-atipan ni Eli nga pari.
Ang duha ka anak ni Eli mga malain nga mga tawo. Wala sila nagatuman sa Ginoo Ginoo
tungod kay wala nila ginasunod ang mga pagsulundan parte sa bahin nga mabaton sang mga pari halin sa halad sang mga tawo. Amo ini ang ila ginahimo kon may nagahalad: Samtang ginapabukalan ang ginahalad nga mga karne, ginapakadto nila didto ang ila suluguon nga may dala nga dako nga tinidor nga may tatlo ka ngipon.
Dayon ginatuslok sang suluguon ang mga karne sa sulod sang kaldero ukon kolon. Ang madala sang tinidor amo ang parte nila nga mga pari. Amo ini ang ila ginahimo kada halad sang mga Israelinhon sa Shilo.
Kag bisan antes pa sunugon ang tambok sang karne, nagapalapit ang ila suluguon sa tawo nga nagahalad kag nagasiling, “Hatagi sang karne ang pari para sugbahon. Indi siya magbaton sang ginpabukalan; gusto niya ang hilaw.”
Kon magsiling gani ang nagahalad nga hulaton anay nga mahalad ang tambok sang karne antes siya magkuha sang gusto niya, amo ini ang iya ginasiling, “Indi puwede! Kinahanglan ihatag mo subong gid, kay kon indi, agawon ko ina sa inyo.”
Dako gid ini nga sala nga nahimo sang mga anak ni Eli sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay wala nila ginatahod ang halad para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Karon, ang bata nga si Samuel padayon nga nagaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagasul-ob siya sang espesyal nga panapton
Kada tuig ginahimuan ni Hana si Samuel sang pangsampaw nga bayo, kag iya ini ginadala sa iya kon maglakat siya upod sa iya bana sa paghalad sang tuigan nga halad.
nga pareho sa aton Dios.
Kag didto, ginabendisyunan ni Eli si Elkana kag ang iya asawa. Nagasiling siya kay Elkana, “Kabay pa nga hatagan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga kabataan paagi sa sining imo asawa bilang baylo sa isa nga ginpangayo niya kag iya man nga ginhatag sa Ginoo Ginoo .” Dayon nagpuli sila.
Ginkaluoyan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Hana. Nakabata pa siya sang tatlo ka lalaki kag duha ka babayi. Si Samuel iya padayon nga nagadako nga ara sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Karon si Eli tigulang na gid. Nabatian niya ang tanan nga malain nga ginahimo sang iya mga anak sa mga Israelinhon. Kag nabatian man niya ang ila pagpakighilawas sa mga babayi nga nagaalagad sa may puwertahan dampi sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Gani ginsilingan niya sila, “Nabatian ko sa mga tawo ang tanan nga kalautan nga ginahimo ninyo. Ngaa ginahimo ninyo ina?
Untati na ninyo ina, mga anak, kay indi maayo ining mga nabatian ko sa katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling pa gid si Eli, “Kon ang isa ka tawo makasala sa iya isigkatawo, mahimo nga ang Dios
Sa pihak nga bahin, padayon nga nagadako si Samuel, kag nalipay gid sa iya ang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang mga tawo.
Karon, nagpalapit ang isa ka propeta sang Dios
Sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel, ang iya pamilya ang ginpili ko nga mangin akon mga pari sa pag-alagad sa halaran, sa pagsunog sang insenso, kag sa pagsul-ob sang espesyal nga panapton
Karon, ngaa ginahilabtan
kag ginabinagbinag niya ang mga ginahimo sang tawo.
Sadto anay, ako nga inyo Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nagpromisa nga kamo gid lang kag ang iban pa nga mga kaliwat sang inyo katigulangan ang makaalagad sa akon hasta san-o bilang mga pari. Pero indi na karon, kay padunggan ko ang nagapadungog sa akon, pero ang nagapakalain sa akon pakamalauton ko.
Indi ko pagpahalinon ang iban sa inyo sa pag-alagad sa akon bilang pari, pero magaagi sila sa puwerte nga pag-antos, kag indi maglawig ang ila kabuhi.
Kag bilang tanda para sa imo nga matabo ini nga mga butang, mapatay ang imo duha ka anak nga si Hofni kag si Finehas sa isa lang ka adlaw.
Magapili ako sang matutom nga pari nga magasunod sa akon kabubut-on. Hatagan ko siya sang mga kaliwat nga magaalagad sa akon pinili nga hari hasta san-o.
Ang tanan nga mabilin sa imo mga kaliwat magapakitluoy sa mga kaliwat sang sini nga pari nga hatagan sila sang kuwarta ukon pagkaon. Magapangabay sila sa ila nga himuon sila nga kabulig nga mga pari para lang nga makakaon sila.”
pero ginapabaskog niya ang mga maluya.
Pero ang may madamo sang bata nawad-an.
kag sa pagkuha sa ila didto.
kag ang iban ginapadunggan niya.
nga sa diin napasad ang kalibutan.
sa iya kaugalingon nga ikasarang.
Sang sadto nga panahon nga nagaalagad si Samuel sa Ginoo Ginoo , sa idalom sang pag-atipan ni Eli, talagsa na lang nagapakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo , kag diutay lang gid ang mga palanan-awon.
Nagkadto ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel kag nagtindog. Kag pareho sang iya ginhimo, gintawag niya siya, “Samuel! Samuel!” Dayon nagsiling si Samuel, “Maghambal ka, Ginoo Ginoo , kay ako nga imo suluguon nagapamati.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Tandai ini, sa indi madugay may pagahimuon ako sa Israel. Ang tanan nga makabati sini mahadlukan gid.
Pag-abot sang sina nga tion, himuon ko gid ang tanan nga ginsiling ko kontra sa pamilya ni Eli.
Kay ginsilingan ko siya nga silutan ko ang iya pamilya hasta san-o tungod ginpabay-an niya ang sala sang iya mga anak nga nagadala sa ila sang pagpakamalaot
Gani ginsumpa ko nga ang sala sang pamilya ni Eli indi gid mapatawad hasta san-o sang bisan ano nga halad.”
Nagtulog si Samuel hasta mag-aga, kag dayon ginbuksan niya ang puwertahan sang balay sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nahadlok siya magsugid kay Eli parte sa ginpahayag sang Ginoo sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya .
Pero gintawag siya ni Eli, “Samuel, anak.” Nagsabat si Samuel, “Ano sir?”
Nagpamangkot si Eli, “Ano bala ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo? Indi ka maglikom sa akon. Silutan ka sang Dios sing puwerte gid kon indi mo pag-isugid sa akon ang tanan niya nga ginsiling sa imo.”
Gani ginsugid ni Samuel sa iya ang tanan. Wala gid siya sang may ginlikom. Nagsiling si Eli, “Siya ang Ginoo Ginoo ; himuon niya kon ano ang maayo para sa iya.”
Samtang nagadako si Samuel padayon siya nga ginatuytuyan sang Ginoo Ginoo ; kag ang tanan nga ginsiling ni Samuel ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga matuman.
Isa sadto ka gab-i, nagatulog si Eli sa iya kuwarto. Indi na maayo makakita si Eli.
Gani ginkilala siya nga isa ka propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa Dan hasta sa Beersheba.
Padayon nga nagapakita ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel sa Shilo, kag didto ginapahayag niya ang iya kaugalingon kay Samuel paagi sa pagpakighambal sa iya.
Si Samuel ya didto nagatulog sa balay
gintawag sang Ginoo Ginoo si Samuel. Nagsabat si Samuel, “Ano, sir?”
Dayon nagdalagan siya kay Eli kag nagsiling, “Ano, sir, ngaa ginatawag mo ako?” Nagsiling si Eli, “Wala ako nagtawag sa imo. Magbalik ka kag magtulog liwat.” Gani nagbalik siya kag nagtulog.
Gintawag naman siya liwat sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Samuel!” Nagbangon si Samuel kag nagkadto kay Eli, kag nagsiling, “Ano sir, ngaa ginatawag mo ako?” Nagsabat si Eli, “Anak, wala ako nagtawag sa imo, magbalik ka kag magtulog liwat.”
Wala pa gid sadto makilala ni Samuel ang Ginoo Ginoo , kay wala pa makapakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya.
Gintawag sang Ginoo Ginoo si Samuel sa ikatlo nga beses. Nagbangon si Samuel kag nagkadto kay Eli, kag nagsiling, “Ano sir, ngaa ginatawag mo ako?” Dayon nahibaluan ni Eli nga ang Ginoo Ginoo gali amo ang nagatawag kay Samuel.
Gani ginsilingan niya si Samuel, “Magbalik ka kag magtulog, kag kon magtawag siya liwat, silinga, ‘Maghambal ka, Ginoo Ginoo , kay ako nga imo suluguon nagapamati.’ ” Gani nagbalik si Samuel kag nagtulog liwat.
Karon nagpakig-away ang mga Israelinhon kontra sa mga Filistinhon. Nagkampo ang mga Israelinhon sa Ebenezer, kag ang mga Filistinhon ya nagkampo sa Afek.
Gani nagpakig-away ang mga Filistinhon, kag napierdi nila ang mga Israelinhon. Madamo gid ang napatay; 30,000 ang napatay nga mga Israelinhon. Ang mga nagkalabilin nga mga Israelinhon nagpalalagyo puli sa ila ginaestaran.
Kag indi lang ina, kundi indi lang ina, kundi naagaw pa sang mga Filistinhon ang Kahon sang Dios, kag napatay man ang duha ka anak ni Eli nga si Hofni kag si Finehas.
Sa sina nga adlaw, may isa ka tawo nga Benjaminhon nga nagdalagan halin sa inaway pakadto sa Shilo. Gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo kag ginbutangan sang yab-ok ang iya ulo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo .
kag nagsiling, “Bag-o lang gid ako naghalin sa inaway. Nakapalagyo ako.” Nagpamangkot si Eli, “Ano ang natabo, toto?”
Nagsabat ang tawo, “Nagpalalagyo ang mga Israelinhon sa mga Filistinhon kag madamo gid sa aton aton katawhan ang napatay, pati na ang duha mo ka anak nga si Hofni kag si Finehas. Kag ang Kahon sang Dios naagaw.”
Sang masambit sang tawo ang parte sa Kahon sang Dios, nagtingkaya si Eli sa iya bangko sa kilid sang puwertahan sang banwa. Nabali ang iya liog kag napatay dayon siya, kay matambok abi siya kag tigulang na. Nangin pangulo siya sang Israel sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
Sadto man nga tion, ang umagad ni Eli nga asawa ni Finehas manugbata. Sang mabatian niya nga naagaw ang Kahon sang Dios kag napatay ang iya bana kag ugangan nga lalaki, ginsakitan siya dayon kag nagbata, pero grabe ang iya pagpasakit.
Nagsalakay ang mga Filistinhon, kag puwerte gid ang inaway. Ginpierdi sang mga Filistinhon ang mga Israelinhon; 4,000 ka Israelinhon ang ila napatay.
Sang nagahimumugto na siya, nagsiling ang mga babayi nga nagpabata sa iya, “Magpakaisog ka! Lalaki ang imo bata!” Pero wala na siya magsabat.
Sang nagbalik sa kampo ang nabilin nga mga Israelinhon, nagpamangkot ang mga manugdumala sang Israel, “Ngaa ginpabay-an sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mapierdi kita sa mga Filistinhon? Maayo pa kuhaon ta ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Shilo, para updan niya kita kag luwason sa aton mga kaaway.”
Gani ginpakuha nila sa Shilo ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom. Ang takop sang sini nga Kahon may ara sang imahen sang duha ka kerubin, kag nagapuyo ang Ginoo Ginoo sa tunga sini. Nag-upod sa pagkuha sang Kahon ang duha ka anak ni Eli nga si Hofni kag Finehas.
Pag-abot sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa kampo, nagsinggit sing matunog ang mga Israelinhon sa kalipay sa bagay nga nagtay-og ang duta.
Sang mahibaluan nila nga nag-abot ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon,
hinadlukan gid sila. Nagsiling sila, “May nag-abot nga mga dios sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon. Kaluluoy kita! Wala pa ini matabo halin sang una.
Kaluluoy gid kita! Sin-o ang makaluwas sa aton sa makagagahom nila nga mga dios? Sila ang mga dios nga nagpatay sa mga Egyptohanon sa kamingawan paagi sa nagkalain-lain nga klase sang mga kahalitan.
Pero magpakabakod kita kag magpakaisog, kay kon indi, mangin ulipon kita sang mga Hebreo pareho sang pag-ulipon naton sa ila. Gani magpakig-away gid kita!”
Sang naagaw sang mga Filistinhon ang Kahon sang Dios, gindala nila ini halin sa Ebenezer pakadto sa Ashdod.
Gani ginpadala nila sa Ekron ang Kahon sang Dios. Kag samtang ginapasulod ini sa Ekron, nagreklamo ang katawhan sang Ekron. Siling nila, “Gindala nila diri ang Kahon sang Dios sang Israel para patyon kita tanan.”
Gani ginpatawag nila ang tanan nga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon kag ginsilingan, “Ibalik ninyo ang Kahon sang Dios sang Israel sa iya lugar, kay kon indi, magakalamatay kami tanan.” Amo ina ang ila ginsiling tungod kay nagsugod na ang puwerte nga pagsilot sang Dios sa ila banwa. Nagsinala-sala sila kay madamo ang nagkalamatay.
Ang mga wala nagkalamatay gintubuan sang tumor, kag ang ila pagpangayo sang bulig nakaabot sa langit.
Dayon gindala nila ini sa templo ni Dagon nga ila dios-dios kag ginbutang sa iya tupad.
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nakita sang mga taga-Ashdod ang imahen ni Dagon nga nagahapa sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpatindog nila ini kag ginbalik sa iya nahamtangan.
Pero sang sunod nga aga, nakita naman nila ini nga nagahapa sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ang iya ulo kag duha ka kamot nautod, kag ara ini sa may puwertahan dampi; ang iya lang lawas ang nabilin.
Amo gani nga hasta subong ang mga pari ni Dagon kag ang mga nagasulod sa iya templo didto sa Ashdod wala nagatapak sa puwertahan dampi.
Ginsilutan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga taga-Ashdod sing puwerte gid kag ang mga lugar sa palibot sini. Ginpatubuan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang tumor sa pagpaantos sa ila.
Sang makita sang mga taga-Ashdod ang mga nagakalatabo, nagsiling sila, “Indi dapat nga magpabilin diri sa aton ang Kahon sang Dios sang Israel tungod nga ginasilutan niya kita kag si Dagon nga aton dios.”
Gani ginpatawag nila ang tanan nga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon kag ginpamangkot, “Ano ang himuon ta sa Kahon sang Dios sang Israel?” Nagsabat sila, “Dal-on ini sa Gat.” Gani gindala nila sa Gat ang Kahon sang Dios sang Israel.
Pero sang nag-abot na ini didto, ginsilutan man sang Ginoo Ginoo ang katawhan sang sadto nga banwa. Nagsinala-sala gid sila kay ginpatubuan man sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga tumor, bata man ukon tigulang.
Pagkaligad sang pito ka bulan halin sang gindala ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Filistia,
Gani gintuman nila ato. Nagkuha sila sang duha ka iloy nga baka kag gintakdan sang karo. Ang mga bata sini ginsiradhan nila sa toril.
Ginbutang nila ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa karo kag ang kahon nga may sulod nga mga bulawan nga ang korte daw mga ilaga kag daw mga tumor.
Dayon naglakat ang mga baka deretso sa Bet Shemesh nga wala naglipas sa dalan, kag sige ang ila ima.
Sang sadto nga tion, nagaani ang mga taga-Bet Shemesh sang trigo sa kapatagan. Sang makita nila ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan , nalipay gid sila.
Nakita ini tanan sang lima ka pangulo sang mga Filistinhon, kag dayon nagpuli sila sa Ekron sang sina mismo nga adlaw.
Ang lima ka imahen nga imahen nga bulawan nga ang korte daw tumor naghalin sa lima ka banwa sang mga Filistinhon: ang Ashdod, Gaza, Ashkelon, Gat, kag Ekron. Ginpadala nila ini para sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga bayad sa sala,
kag amo man ang lima ka bulawan nga ang korte daw ilaga, suno sa kadamuon sang sadtong lima ka napaderan nga mga banwa sang Filistinhon. Ini nga mga banwa kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sini sakop sang sadtong lima ka pangulo. Ang dako nga bato sa uma ni Josue sang Bet Shemesh, nga ila gintungtungan sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo , ara pa gihapon hasta subong bilang pamatuod parte sa natabo.
Pero may 70 ka taga-Bet Shemesh nga ginpatay sang Dios tungod kay gintan-aw nila ang sulod sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagpangasubo gid ang mga tawo tungod sa sining puwerte nga silot sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
ginpatawag sang mga Filistinhon ang ila ila mga pari kag mga babaylan kag ginpamangkot, “Ano ang amon himuon sa Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo ? Sugiri kami kon paano namon ini ibalik sa iya nga lugar.”
Nagpamangkot sila, “Sin-o bala ang makaatubang sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang balaan nga Dios? Sa diin bala naton ipadala ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo palayo sa aton?”
Gani nagpadala sila sang mga mensahero sa mga taga-Kiriat Jearim sa pagsiling, “Ginbalik sang mga Filistinhon ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kuhaa ninyo diri kag dal-a dira sa inyo.”
Nagsabat sila, “Kon ibalik ninyo ang Kahon sang Dios sang Israel, dapat ibalik ninyo ini nga may dala nga halad nga bayad sa sala. Sa sini nga paagi magaayo kamo kag mahibaluan ninyo kon ngaa nga ginasilutan niya kamo.”
Indi na ninyo pagpatig-aha ang inyo mga tagipusuon pareho sang ginhimo sang mga Egyptohanon kag sang ila hari. Gintugutan lang nila nga makalakat ang mga Israelinhon sang puwerte na gid ang pagpaantos sa ila sang Dios.
Gani karon, maghimo kamo sang bag-o nga karo kag magkuha sang duha ka iloy nga baka nga wala pa gid matakdi sang gota. Dayon itakod ninyo ang karo sa mga baka, pero indi ninyo pagpaupda ang ila mga bata kundi siraduhi ninyo ini sa toril.
Pagkatapos kuhaa ninyo ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ibutang sa karo. Ibutang man ninyo sa tupad sini ang kahon nga sa diin nasulod ang mga bulawan nga may mga korte, nga inyo ipadala bilang halad nga bayad sa sala. Dayon palakta ninyo ang mga baka, kag pabay-i lang kon sa diin ini pakadto,
pero tan-awa ninyo ini. Kon magtaklad gani ini pakadto sa Bet Shemesh, nga isa sa mga banwa sang mga Israelinhon, mahibaluan ta nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagpadala sining puwerte nga kahalitan sa aton. Pero kon indi gani, mahibaluan ta nga indi ang Ginoo Ginoo ang nagasilot sa aton, kundi natabuan lang ini sa aton.”
Gani ginkuha sang mga taga-Kiriat Jearim ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo kag gindala sa balay ni Abinadab nga ara sa bukid. Kag ginpili nila si Eleazar, nga anak ni Abinadab, sa pagbantay sini.
Samtang ginahalad ni Samuel ang halad nga ginasunog, nag-abot ang mga Filistinhon sa pagpakig-away sa mga Israelinhon. Pero sang sina nga adlaw ginpadaguob sang Ginoo Ginoo sing puwerte katunog gani nagsinala-sala ang mga Filistinhon, kag napierdi sila sa mga Israelinhon.
Ginlagas kag ginpamatay sila sang mga Israelinhon halin sa Mizpa hasta sa ubos sang Bet Car.
Dayon nagkuha si Samuel sang bato kag ginbutang sa tunga sang Mizpa kag Shen. Gin-ngalanan niya ini nga Ebenezer
Gani napierdi ang mga Filistinhon, kag wala na sila magsalakay liwat sa lugar sang mga Israelinhon samtang buhi si Samuel, kay nagpamatok gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila.
Ang mga banwa sa tunga sang Ekron kag Gat nga naagaw sang mga Filistinhon nabalik sa Israel. Kag nauntat man ang inaway sang mga Israelinhon kag sang mga Amornon.
Nagpadayon si Samuel nga pangulo sang Israel sa bilog niya nga kabuhi.
Kada tuig, nagalibot siya halin sa Betel pakadto sa Gilgal kag Mizpa, para panguluhan ang mga Israelinhon sa sini nga mga lugar.
Pero pagkatapos nagapuli gid siya sa Rama, sa diin siya nagaestar, kag nagapangulo man siya sa mga tawo didto. Kag naghimo siya didto sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagtiner ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Kiriat Jearim sa malawig nga tion—mga 20 ka tuig. Kag sa sina nga mga tinuig, nagapangasubo kag nagapangayo sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo ang bilog nga katawhan sang Israel.
Nagsiling si Samuel sa ila, “Kon sinsero gid man ang inyo pagbalik sa Ginoo Ginoo , ipilak ninyo ang inyo mga dios-dios pati na ang imahen ni imahen ni Ashtoret, kag itugyan ninyo ang inyo kabuhi sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag siya lang ang alagaran ninyo. Kon himuon ninyo ini luwason niya kamo sa kamot sang mga Filistinhon.”
Gani ginpilak nila ang mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal kag ni ni Ashtoret, kag nag-alagad lang gid sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagsiling si Samuel sa mga Israelinhon, “Magtipon kamo tanan sa Mizpa, kag magapangamuyo ako sa Ginoo Ginoo para sa inyo.”
Sang nagtipon na sila tanan sa Mizpa, nagkuha sila sang tubig kag gin-ula nila sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sadto nga adlaw nagpuasa sila kag nagtuad sang ila mga sala nga ila ginhimo kontra sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpanguluhan ni Samuel ang mga Israelinhon didto sa Mizpa.
Sang mabalitaan sang mga Filistinhon nga ang mga Israelinhon nagtipon sa Mizpa, nagpreparar ang mga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon sa pagsalakay sa ila. Kag sang mabalitaan ini sang mga Israelinhon, hinadlukan sila sa mga Filistinhon.
Nagsiling sila kay Samuel, “Indi ka mag-untat sa pagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios nga luwason niya kita sa mga Filistinhon.”
Dayon nagkuha si Samuel sang karnero nga nagatiti pa kag ginsunog niya ini nga bilog bilang halad nga ginasunog para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagpangayo siya sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo para sa Israel kag ginsabat siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang tigulang na si Samuel, ginpili niya ang iya mga anak nga mangin pangulo sang Israel.
Ginsugid ni Samuel sa mga tawo nga nagapangayo sang hari sa iya ang tanan nga ginhambal sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si Samuel, “Amo ini ang pagahimuon sang hari nga magadumala sa inyo: kuhaon niya ang inyo mga anak nga lalaki kag himuon niya nga mga soldado. Ang iban sa ila himuon niya nga mga manugkarwahe, ang iban mga manugkabayo, kag ang iban magauna sa iya karwahe.
Ang iban sa ila himuon niya nga mga opisyal nga magadumala sa 1,000 ka soldado, kag ang iban sa 50 ka soldado. Ang iban paaraduhon niya sa iya uma kag paanihon sa iya patubas, kag ang iban pa gid pahimuon niya sang mga armas sa inaway kag mga kagamitan para sa iya mga karwahe.
Kuhaon niya ang inyo mga anak nga babayi kag himuon niya nga mga manughimo sang pahamot, manugluto, kag manughimo sang tinapay.
Kuhaon niya ang pinakamaayo ninyo nga mga uma, mga talamnan sang ubas, kag mga talamnan sang olibo, kag ihatag niya ini sa iya mga suluguon.
Kuhaon niya ang ikanapulo sang inyo mga uyas kag mga ubas, kag ihatag ini sa iya mga opisyal kag sa iban pa niya nga mga alagad.
Kuhaon man niya ang inyo mga ulipon nga mga lalaki kag mga babayi kag ang pinakamaayo ninyo nga mga baka kag mga donkey sa pag-obra sa iya.
Kuhaon pa gid niya ang ikanapulo sang inyo mga kasapatan, kag kamo mismo mangin iya mga ulipon.
Kon mag-abot na ina nga tion, magapangayo kamo sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo tungod sang pagpamigos sang pagpamigos sang hari nga inyo ginpili, pero indi kamo pagsabton sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pero wala magpamati ang mga tawo kay Samuel. Nagsiling sila, “Indi mahimo! Gusto namon nga may hari nga magdumala sa amon.
Ang ngalan sang iya kamagulangan amo si Joel, kag ang manghod amo si Abia. Kag nag-alagad sila bilang pangulo bilang pangulo sa Beersheba.
Dayon mangin pareho kami sa iban nga mga nasyon, nga may hari nga nagadumala sa amon kag nagapanguna sa amon sa pagpakig-away.”
Sang mabatian ni Samuel ang tanan nga ginsiling sang mga tawo, ginsugid niya ini sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Tumana ang ila luyag; hatagi sila sang hari.” Dayon nagsiling si Samuel sa mga Israelinhon, “ Sige, Sige, magpuli na kamo sa inyo mga banwa.”
Pero wala sila magsunod sa pagginawi sang ila amay. Makikuwarta sila, nagabaton sila sang lagay, kag ginatiko nila ang hustisya.
Gani nagtipon ang tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel, kag nagkadto kay Samuel sa Rama.
Nagsiling sila sa iya, “Tigulang ka na; kag ang imo mga anak wala nagasunod sa imo pagginawi. Karon, hatagi kami sang hari nga magpangulo sa amon, pareho sang iban nga mga nasyon nga may hari.”
Pero naglain gid ang buot ni Samuel sa ila ginapangayo, gani nagpangamuyo siya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Tumana ang ginahambal nila sa imo; indi ikaw ang ila ginsikway kundi ako.
Halin sang pagpaguwa ko sa ila sa Egypt hasta subong ginasikway nila ako kag nagaalagad sila sa iban nga mga dios. Kag karon amo man ang ila ginahimo sa imo.
Sige, tumana ang ila ginapangayo, pero paandami gid sila kon ano ang pagahimuon sang hari nga magadumala sa ila.”
May isa ka manggaranon kag kilala nga tawo sa tribo ni Benjamin. Ang iya ngalan si Kish, kag anak siya ni Abiel. Si Abiel anak ni Zeror. Si Zeror anak ni Becorat. Kag si Becorat anak ni Afia nga kaliwat ni Benjamin.
Sang nagapataklad sila sa bukid pakadto sa banwa, may nasugata sila nga mga dalaga nga nagapaguwa sa banwa sa pagsag-ob. Nagpamangkot sila sa mga dalaga, “Ari bala diri ang manalagna?”
Nagsabat sila, “Huo, ari siya. Una-una lang siya sa inyo. Bag-o pa lang siya nag-abot sa amon banwa sa pagpanguna sa mga tawo sa ila paghalad didto sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar. Dalia ninyo!
Hingabuti ninyo siya antes siya magkadto didto para magkaon. Indi magsugod kaon ang mga tawo nga gin-imbitar kon indi pa siya makaabot, tungod nga kinahanglan nga bendisyunan niya anay ang halad. Gani taklad na kamo subong, kay maabtan ninyo siya samtang adlaw pa.”
Gani nagtaklad sila sa banwa. Kag sang nagapasulod sila, nakita nila si Samuel nga nagapadulong sa ila sa pagkadto sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar.
Sang nagligad nga adlaw antes mag-abot si Saul, nagsiling na nga daan ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel,
“Buwas, sa amo sini nga oras, pakadtuon ko sa imo ang isa ka tawo nga halin sa duta sang Benjamin. Haplasan mo sang lana ang iya ulo sa pagpakita nga siya ang pinili nga pangulo sang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Luwason niya ang akon katawhan sa kamot sang mga Filistinhon, kay nakita ko ang mga pag-antos sang akon katawhan, kag nabatian ko ang ila pagpangayo sang bulig.”
Sang makita ni Samuel si Saul, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel, “Siya ang tawo nga ginsiling ko sa imo. Magadumala siya sa akon katawhan.”
Nagpalapit si Saul kay Samuel sa may puwertahan sang banwa kag nagpamangkot, “Sa diin bala ang balay sang manalagna?”
Nagsabat si Samuel, “Ako ang manalagna. Mag-una kamo sa akon sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar, kay sa sini nga adlaw magakaon kamo upod sa akon. Kag buwas sa aga, isugid ko sa imo ang imo ginahunahuna, kag dayon palakton ko kamo.
Si Kish may anak nga si Saul. Bataon pa si Saul, kag siya ang pinakaguwapo kag pinakamataas sa Israel.
Kon parte sa mga donkey nga nadula tatlo na ka adlaw ang nagligad, indi ka magkabalaka kay nakita na sila. Kag karon sugiran ko ikaw nga ikaw kag ang panimalay sang imo amay amo ang ginahandom sang mga Israelinhon nga magapangulo sa ila nga magapangulo sa ila .”
Nagsabat si Saul, “Pero naghalin lang ako sa tribo ni Benjamin, ang pinakagamay nga tribo sang Israel, kag ang amon pamilya amo ang pinakakubos sa amon tribo. Ngaa nagasiling ka sina sa akon?”
Sang didto na sila sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar, Sang didto na sila sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar, gindala ni Samuel si Saul kag ang suluguon sa dako nga kuwarto nga sa diin nagapungko ang 30 ka tawo nga ginpang-imbitar. Dayon ginpapungko niya si Saul kag ang suluguon sa pulungkuan nga para sa dungganon nga mga bisita.
Nagsiling si Samuel sa manugluto, “Dal-a diri ang karne nga ginpapain ko sa imo.”
Gani ginkuha sang manugluto ang paa kag ginbutang sa atubangan ni Saul. Nagsiling si Samuel kay Saul, kay Saul, “Sige, kauna, kay ginpain ko ina para sa imo sa sini nga okasyon, upod sa mga tawo nga akon ginpang-imbitar.” Gani nagkaon si Saul upod kay Samuel sa sina nga adlaw.
Pagbalik nila sa banwa halin sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar, ginpreparahan ni Samuel sang hiligdaan si Saul didto sa matapan nga matapan nga atop sang iya balay,
kag didto nagtulog si Saul. Pagkaaga,
Sang nagapaguwa na sila sa banwa, nagsiling si Samuel kay Saul, “Paunaha ang imo suluguon kay maestorya kita dali lang. Isiling ko sa imo ang ginsiling sang Dios.” Gani nag-una ang suluguon.
Karon, nadula ang mga donkey ni Kish, gani nagsiling siya sa iya anak nga si Saul, “Upda ang isa sa mga suluguon kag pangitaa ang mga donkey.”
Gani naglakat si Saul kag ang suluguon kag ang suluguon . Nagkadto sila sa kabukiran sang Efraim hasta sa lugar sang Shalisha, pero wala nila makita ang mga donkey. Gani nagkadto sila sa duta sang Shaalim kag sa duta sang Benjamin, pero wala man nila makita didto.
Sang nakaabot sila sa duta sang Zuf, nagsiling si Saul sa iya suluguon, “Dali, mabalik na lang kita, kay basi kita na ang kabalak-an ni tatay imbes ang mga donkey.”
Pero nagsabat ang suluguon, “Hulat anay! May isa ka propeta sang Dios
Nagsiling si Saul sa iya suluguon, “Kon makadto kita sa iya, ano ang ihatag ta sa iya? Wala kita sing pagkaon nga nabilin. Wala kita sing iregalo sa iya.”
Nagsabat ang suluguon, “Ari, may sensilyo ako nga pilak.
Dayon nagkuha si Samuel sang isa ka tibod nga lana, kag ginbubo sa ulo ni Saul. Ginhalukan niya si Saul kag ginsilingan, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang nagpili sa imo nga magpangulo sa katawhan nga katawhan nga iya ginapanag-iyahan.
Sang pag-abot ni Saul kag sang iya suluguon sa Gibea, ginsugata siya sang mga propeta. Gin-gamhan dayon si Saul sang Espiritu sang Dios kag naghalambalanon siya upod sa sadto nga mga propeta.
Sang makita siya sang mga nakakilala sa iya nga nagahalambalanon siya upod sa mga propeta, nagpinamangkutanay sila, “Nangin propeta man bala si Saul? Paano nangin propeta ang anak ni Kish?”
Nagsabat ang isa ka tawo nga taga-didto, “Indi importante kon sin-o ang iya amay; ang bisan sin-o puwede nga mangin propeta.” Kag amo ina ang umpisa sang hulubaton nga nagasiling, “Nangin propeta man bala si Saul?”
Pagkatapos sang paghalambalanon ni Saul, nagkadto siya sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar.
Karon nagpamangkot ang tiyo ni Saul sa iya kag sa iya suluguon, “Diin kamo naghalin?” Nagsabat si Saul, “Nagpangita kami sang mga donkey. Pero sang wala namon ini makita nagkadto kami kay Samuel.”
Nagsiling ang tiyo ni Saul, “Sugiri ako kon ano ang ginsiling ni Samuel sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Saul, “Ginpasalig niya kami nga nakita na ang mga donkey.” Pero wala niya pagsugiri ang iya tiyo kon ano ang ginsiling ni Samuel parte sa iya pagkahari.
Ginpatipon ni Samuel ang mga Israelinhon didto sa Mizpa para sugiran sila kon ano ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang didto na sila, Sang didto na sila, ginsugid ni Samuel ining mensahi nga halin sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: “Ginpaguwa ko kamo nga mga Israelinhon sa Egypt; ginhilway ko kamo sa kamot sang mga Egyptohanon kag sa tanan nga ginharian nga nagdaogdaog sa inyo.
Ako ang inyo Dios nga nagaluwas sa inyo sa tanan nga katalagman kag kalisod, pero karon ginasikway ninyo ako kag nagapangayo kamo sang hari nga magpangulo sa inyo. Gani karon magtipon kamo sa akon atubangan suno sa inyo tribo kag pamilya.”
Paghalin mo karon, may masugat-an ka nga duha ka tawo malapit sa lulubngan ni Raquel sa Zelza, sa border sang Benjamin. Magasiling sila sa imo, ‘Nakita na ang mga donkey nga inyo ginapangita, kag wala nagapalibog ang imo amay sa ila kundi sa imo, kag nagasagi siya pamangkot, “Ano na lang ang akon himuon para makita ko ang akon bata?” ’ ”
Ginpapalapit ni Samuel ang kada tribo sang Israel, kag ang tribo ni Benjamin amo ang napilian.
Dayon ginpakadto ni Samuel sa atubangan ang kada pamilya sa tribo ni Benjamin, kag ang pamilya ni Matri amo ang napilian. Kag ang napilian naman sa pamilya ni Matri naman sa pamilya ni Matri amo si Saul nga anak ni Kish. Pero sang ginpangita nila si Saul, wala nila siya makita.
Gani nagpamangkot ang mga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Ari bala siya diri?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Huo, ari siya. Nagapanago lang siya sa mga kargaminto.”
Gani nagdalagan sila kag ginkuha nila si Saul. Kag sang ginpatindog nila siya sa tunga, mas mataas siya sang sa tanan.
Dayon nagsiling si Samuel sa tanan nga tawo, “Amo ini siya ang tawo nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mangin hari ninyo nga mangin hari ninyo . Wala sing isa sa aton nga pareho sa iya.” Dayon nagsinggit ang mga tawo, “Mabuhay ang hari!”
Ginpaathag dayon ni Samuel sa mga tawo ang mga katungdanan kag kinamatarong sang isa ka hari. Ginsulat niya ini sa linukot nga kasulatan, kag gintago sa balay sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon ginpapuli ni Samuel ang mga tawo.
Nagpuli man si Saul sa ila balay sa Gibea. Gin-updan siya sang mga soldado nga gintandog sang Dios nga mag-upod sa iya nga mag-upod sa iya .
Kay may malain nga mga tawo nga nagyaguta kay Saul. Siling nila, “Paano ini nga tawo makaluwas sa aton?” Kag wala nila paghatagi si Saul sang mga regalo sa pagpadungog sa iya bilang hari sa pagpadungog sa iya bilang hari . Pero naghipos lang si Saul.
Nagsiling pa si Samuel, Nagsiling pa si Samuel, “Pag-abot mo sa dako nga kahoy sa Tabor, may masugat-an ka nga tatlo ka tawo nga nagapakadto sa Betel sa pagsimba sa Dios. Ang isa sa ila nagadala sang tatlo ka bataon nga kanding, ang isa tatlo ka tinapay, kag ang isa pa gid nagadala sang bino nga nasulod sa panit nga suludlan.
Tamyawon ka nila kag hatagan sang duha ka tinapay, nga imo pagabatunon.
Pag-abot mo sa Bukid
Dayon gamhan ka sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo kag magahalambalanon ka man upod sa ila, kag mangin lain ka na nga klase sang tawo.
Kon matuman na ini nga mga butang, himua kon ano ang maayo, kay kaupod mo ang Dios.
“Mag-una ka sa akon sa Gilgal. Maapas gid ako sa imo sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Pero hulaton mo gid ako sang pito ka adlaw hasta nga makaabot ako, kag sugiran ko ikaw kon ano ang imo himuon.”
Sang paghalin ni Saul kay Samuel, ginbag-o sang Dios ang kabuhi ni Saul, kag ang tanan nga ginsiling ni Samuel sa iya natuman sadto nga adlaw.
Karon, nagsalakay si Nahash nga hari sang mga hari sang mga Ammonhon kaupod ang iya mga soldado kaupod ang iya mga soldado , kag ginpalibutan nila ang banwa sang Jabesh Gilead. Nagsiling ang katawhan sang Jabesh sa iya, “Maghimo ka sang kasugtanan sa amon, kag mapasakop kami sa imo.”
Nagsiling sila sa mga Ammonhon, “Buwas masurender kami sa inyo, kag himua ninyo sa amon ang inyo gusto nga himuon.”
Sang madulom pa sang sunod nga adlaw, ginpartida ni Saul ang iya mga tinawo sa tatlo ka grupo. Kag sang kaagahon na, ginsulod nila ang kampo sang mga Ammonhon kag ginpamatay sila hasta mag-udto. Ang mga nakaluwas sa ila isa-isa nga nagpalagyo.
Pagkatapos sang inaway, nagsiling ang mga Israelinhon kay Samuel, “Sin-o atong mga tawo nga nagsiling nga si Saul indi dapat mangin hari naton? Dal-a sila diri sa amon kay patyon namon sila.”
Pero nagsiling si Saul, “Wala sing isa nga pagapatyon subong, kay sa sini nga adlaw ginluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Israel.”
Dayon nagsiling si Samuel sa mga tawo, “Dali, makadto kita sa Gilgal kag iproklamar naton liwat si Saul bilang aton hari.”
Gani nagkadto sila tanan sa Gilgal kag ginproklamar si Saul bilang hari sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Naghalad sila didto sang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, kag naghiwat sila sang dako nga selebrasyon.
Pero nagsabat si Nahash, “Mahimo lang ako sang kasugtanan sa inyo sa isa ka kondisyon, nga lukaton ko ang tuo nga mata sang kada isa sa inyo para mahuy-an ang bilog nga Israel.”
Nagsiling ang mga manugdumala sang Jabesh sa iya, “Hatagi kami sang pito ka adlaw sa pagpadala sang mga mensahero sa bilog nga Israel. Kag kon wala gani sing may mag-abot sa pagluwas sa amon masurender kami sa imo.”
Nag-abot ang mga mensahero sa Gibea, nga sa diin nagaestar si Saul. Kag sang ginsugid nila ang ginhambal ni Nahash, naghinibi ang tanan nga tawo didto.
Natabuan sadto nga nagapapuli si Saul halin sa uma kaupod ang iya mga baka, gani nagpamangkot siya, “Ano ang natabo? Ngaa nagahinibi ang mga tawo?” Dayon ginsugid sang mga tawo sa iya kon ano ang ginsiling sang mga taga-Jabesh.
Pagkabati sini ni Saul gin-gamhan siya sang Espiritu sang Dios, kag puwerte gid ang iya kaakig.
Ginpahadlok gid sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon kay Saul kay Saul , gani nag-ugyon sila sa iya.
Gintipon sila ni Saul sa Bezek: 300,000 ang halin sa Israel kag 30,000 ang halin sa Juda.
Ginsilingan nila ang mga mensahero sang Jabesh Gilead, “Silinga ang inyo mga kasimanwa nga maluwas sila buwas sa udto.” Sang ginsugid ini sang mga mensahero sa ila mga kasimanwa nalipay gid sila.
Nagsiling si Samuel sa tanan nga Israelinhon, “Gintuman ko ang ginpangayo ninyo sa akon; ginhatagan ko kamo sang hari nga magadumala sa inyo.
Nagpangayo sila sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siling nila, ‘Nakasala kami, Ginoo Ginoo . Ginsikway ka namon, kag ginsimba namon ang mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal kag ni ni Ashtoret. Pero karon, luwasa kami sa kamot sang amon mga kaaway, kag simbahon ka namon.’
Dayon ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo si Gideon,
Pero sang makita ninyo nga nagsalakay sa inyo si Nahash nga hari sang mga Ammonhon, nagpangayo kamo sa akon sang hari nga magdumala sa inyo, bisan pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios amo ang inyo hari.
Karon, ari na ang hari nga inyo ginpili. Ginpangayo ninyo siya, kag ginhatag siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo.
Wala sing malain nga matabo sa inyo kon kamo kag ang inyo hari magtahod kag mag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag magsunod sa iya mga sugo.
Pero kon indi kamo magsunod sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag indi magtuman sa iya mga sugo, silutan niya kamo, pareho sa ginhimo niya sa inyo mga katigulangan.
“Karon, indi kamo maghalin; tan-awa ninyo ang makatilingala nga butang nga pagahimuon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo atubangan.
Indi bala nga tiyempo subong sang tig-alani sang trigo kag wala nagaulan? Pero kag wala nagaulan? Pero magapangamuyo ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga padaguobon kag paulanon niya. Dayon mareyalisar ninyo kon ano kalaot ang inyo ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo sang nagpangayo kamo sang hari.”
Gani nagpangamuyo si Samuel sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag sa sina mismo nga adlaw, ginpadaguob kag ginpaulan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Hinadlukan ang tanan nga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo kag kay Samuel.
Nagsiling sila kay Samuel, “Palihog sir, ipangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios nga indi kami magkalamatay, kay gindugangan namon ang amon mga sala sa pagpangayo sang hari.”
Karon may hari na kamo bilang inyo pangulo. Kon parte sa akon, nangin pangulo ninyo ako halin sang bataon pa ako hasta subong. Pero tigulang na ako kag ubanon na, kag ang akon mga anak dalagko na, kag dalagko na, kag kaupod mismo ninyo.
Nagsabat si Samuel, “Indi kamo magkahadlok. Bisan pa nakahimo kamo sining malain nga butang, indi kamo magtalikod sa Ginoo Ginoo , kundi alagara ninyo siya sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon.
Indi kamo mag-alagad sa mga wala sing pulos nga mga dios-dios. Indi sila makabulig ukon makaluwas sa inyo.
Indi gid kamo pag-isikway sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay indi siya gusto nga mahuy-an ang iya ngalan. Nalipay gid siya sa paghimo sa inyo nga iya katawhan.
“Kon parte sa akon, nagapangamuyo gid ako permi sa Ginoo Ginoo para sa inyo, kay kon indi, makasala ako sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag tudluan ko kamo sa pagkabuhi nga maayo kag husto.
Pero dapat magtahod gid kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo kag mag-alagad sa iya sing matutom sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon. Dumduma ninyo ang makatilingala nga mga butang nga iya ginhimo sa inyo.
Pero kon magpadayon kamo sa pagpakasala, kamo kag ang inyo hari pagalaglagon.”
Karon, ari ako sa inyo atubangan. Kon may nahimo ako nga malain, sugiri ninyo ako sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang hari nga hari nga iya ginpili. May ginkuha bala ako nga baka ukon donkey sa kay bisan sin-o sa inyo? May gindayaan bala ako ukon gindaogdaog sa inyo? Nagbaton bala ako sang lagay para ibaliwala ang sala nga nahimo sang isa ka tawo? Kon mapamatud-an ninyo nga nahimo ko ang bisan isa sa sini nga mga butang, bayaran ko ina.”
Nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Wala mo kami gindayaan ukon gindaogdaog. Wala ka man sing may ginkuha sa kay bisan sin-o sa amon.”
Nagsiling si Samuel sa ila, “Sa sini nga adlaw saksi ang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang hari nga hari nga iya ginpili nga wala kamo sing may iakusar sa akon.” Nagsabat ang mga tawo, “ Huo, Huo, saksi ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Dayon nagsiling si Samuel, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagpili kay Moises kag kay Aaron nga mangin pangulo sang inyo mga katigulangan, kag siya ang nagpaguwa sa ila sa Egypt.
Karon, magpalapit kamo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kay iplastar ko sa inyo ang ebidensya sang tanan nga kaayo nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo kag sa inyo mga katigulangan.
“Sang didto ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob sa Egypt, nagpangayo sila sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo si Moises kag si Aaron nga amo ang nagpaguwa sa ila sa Egypt kag nagdala sa ila sa sini nga duta.
Pero ginkalimtan nila ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, gani ginpapierdi sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kay Sisera nga kumander sang mga soldado sang Hazor, kag sa mga Filistinhon kag sa hari sang Moab.
Nagaedad si Saul sang 30
Sang nagahingapos na siya sa paghalad, nag-abot si Samuel. Nagguwa si Saul sa pag-abiabi sa iya,
pero nagpamangkot si Samuel, “Ano ang imo ginhimo?” Nagsabat si Saul, “Nakita ko nga nagaamat-amat palagyo ang mga tawo, kag wala ka mag-abot sa oras nga imo ginsiling, kag nagatipon na ang mga Filistinhon sa Micmash.
Naghunahuna ako nga basi magsalakay sa amon ang mga Filistinhon diri sa Gilgal kag wala pa makahalad sa Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpangayo sa iya sang bulig. Gani napilitan ako nga maghalad sang halad nga ginasunog.”
Nagsiling si Samuel, “Kabuangan ang imo ginhimo. Wala mo gintuman ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios nga ginbilin niya sa imo. Kon gintuman mo lang, ang imo kuntani mga kaliwat amo ang padayon nga magahari sa Israel.
Pero indi na ina matabo, kay may nakita na ang Ginoo Ginoo nga tawo nga nagakomporme sa iya luyag, kag ginhimo niya siya nga pangulo sang iya katawhan, tungod kay wala ka nagtuman sa iya sugo.”
Dayon naghalin si Samuel sa Gilgal kag nagkadto sa Gibea nga sakop sang Benjamin. Gin-isip ni Saul ang nabilin niya nga mga tinawo; mga 600 sila tanan.
Nagkampo si Saul kag ang iya anak nga si Jonatan, kag ang iya mga tinawo, sa Geba
Karon, nagguwa ang mga Filistinhon sa ila kampo sa tatlo ka grupo sa pagsalakay. Ang isa ka grupo nagkadto sa Ofra, sa duta sang Shual.
Ang isa nagkadto sa Bet Horon, kag ang isa pa gid nagkadto sa border nga kitaon ang pulopatag sang Zeboim nga nagaatubang sa kamingawan.
(Sang sadto nga panahon, sa bilog nga Israel wala sing may nakahibalo maghimo sang mga gamit halin sa salsalon. Wala magtugot ang mga Filistinhon nga makahibalo ang mga Israelinhon
Nagpili si Saul sang 3,000 ka lalaki sa Israel sa pagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon sa pagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon . Ang mga wala napili ginpapuli niya. Gin-upod niya ang 2,000 sa Micmash kag sa kabukiran sang Betel, kag ang 1,000 ginpaupod niya sa iya anak nga si Jonatan sa Gibea nga sakop sang Benjamin.
Gani nagakadto pa ang mga Israelinhon sa mga Filistinhon bisan magpabaid sang punta sang ila mga arado, mga tagad, mga wasay, kag mga garab.
Kag mahal ang sukot sa ila. Kag mahal ang sukot sa ila. Ang bayad sa pagpabaid sang punta sang arado ukon sang tagad, duha ka bilog nga pilak. Kag ang bayad sa pagpabaid sang dako nga tinidor, wasay ukon pagpakay-o sang mga inugsuntok sa sapat, isa ka bilog nga pilak.)
Gani sa adlaw sang inaway, wala sing isa sa mga Israelinhon nga may espada ukon bangkaw magluwas kay Saul kag kay Jonatan.
Karon, nagpadala ang mga Filistinhon sang mga soldado sa pagbantay sang alagyan sa Micmash.
Ginsalakay ni Jonatan ang kampo sang mga Filistinhon sa Geba, kag nabatian ini sang iban nga mga Filistinhon. Gani nagsugo si Saul nga patunugon ang mga budyong sa bilog nga duta sang Israel sa pagpreparar sa mga Hebreo
Nabalitaan sang mga Israelinhon nga akig gid ang mga Filistinhon sa ila tungod nga ginsalakay ni Saul ang ila kampo. Gani nagtipon ang mga Israelinhon upod kay Saul didto sa Gilgal.
Nagtipon ang mga Filistinhon sa pagpakig-away sa mga Israelinhon. May 3,000
Sang makita sang mga Israelinhon nga sa peligro ang ila kahimtangan, nagpanago sila sa mga kuweba, sa masiot nga mga lugar, sa mga kabatuhan, sa mga buho, kag sa mga pulunduhan sang tubig.
Ang iban sa ila nagtabok sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagpalagyo sa Gad kag sa Gilead. Si Saul iya nagpabilin sa Gilgal, kag nagakurog sa kahadlok ang iya mga kaupod.
Naghulat si Saul kay Samuel sa Gilgal sang pito ka adlaw suno sa ginsiling ni Samuel sa iya, pero wala mag-abot si Samuel. Sang makita ni Saul nga nagaamat-amat palagyo ang iya mga kaupod,
nagsiling siya, “Dal-a ninyo diri sa akon ang halad nga ginasunog kag ang halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.” Kag ginhalad ni Saul ang halad nga ginasunog.
Isa ka adlaw, nagsiling si Jonatan sa bataon nga lalaki nga manugdala sang iya armas, “Dali, makadto kita sa balantayan sang mga Filistinhon para magpang-espiya para magpang-espiya .” Pero wala niya pagsugiri ang iya amay.
Pero kon magsiling sila nga kita ang magtaklad, mataklad kita, kay amo ina ang tanda nga ipapierdi gid sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton.”
Sang magpakita sila nga duha didto sa balantayan sang mga Filistinhon, ginyaguta sila sang mga Filistinhon nga nagasiling, “Tan-awa ninyo ang mga Hebreo!
Ginsinggitan nila dayon si Jonatan kag ang manugdala sang iya armas, “Taklad kamo diri sa amon, kay tudluan namon kamo sang leksyon!” Gani nagsiling si Jonatan sa manugdala sang iya armas, “Sunod ka sa akon kay sigurado nga ipapierdi sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel.”
Nagkamang pataklad si Jonatan, kag nagsunod ang manugdala sang iya armas. Ginpamatay ni Jonatan ang mga Filistinhon, kag amo man ang ginhimo sang manugdala sang iya armas.
Sa sining una nila nga pagsalakay, nakapatay sila sang 20 ka Filistinhon sa lugar nga mga tunga sa hektarya ang kalaparon.
Hinadlukan gid ang mga Filistinhon—atong ara sa kampo, sa uma, sa balantayan, kag pati ang mga nagasalakay. Dayon naglinog, kag puwerte na gid ang ila kahadlok.
Didto sa Gibea, nga sakop sang duta sang duta sang Benjamin, nakita sang mga bantay ni Saul ang mga soldado sang mga Filistinhon nga nagapinalagyo bisan diin.
Nagsiling si Saul sa iya mga tinawo, “Tipuna ninyo ang mga soldado kag tan-awa kon sin-o ang wala.” Kag nasapwan nila nga wala si Jonatan kag ang manugdala sang iya armas.
Nagsiling si Saul kay Ahia, “Dal-a diri ang Kahon sang Dios.”
Samtang nagapakighambal si Saul sa pari, nagatudo pa gid ang ginahod sa kampo sang mga Filistinhon. Gani nagsiling si Saul sa pari, “Indi ka na lang magpamangkot sa Dios.”
Sadto nga tion si Saul didto sa idalom sang kahoy nga pomegranata sa Migron, sa border sang Gibea. Kaupod niya ang 600 niya ka tinawo.
Dayon nagtipon si Saul kag ang iya mga tinawo kag naglakat sa pagpakig-away. Nakita nila ang mga Filistinhon nga nagasinalasala, nga nagapinatyanay sa espada.
Ang mga Hebreo nga nagdampig sa mga Filistinhon kag nag-upod sa ila nagdampig na kay Saul kag kay Jonatan kag sa iban pa nga mga Israelinhon.
Ang mga Israelinhon nga nagapanago sa kabukiran sang Efraim nakabalita nga nagapinalagyo na ang mga Filistinhon, gani nagbuylog man sila sa paglagas sa mga Filistinhon.
Nakalambot ang inaway sa unhan pa sang Bet Aven. Kag sadto nga tion, ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon.
Sang sina nga adlaw, nagpalangluya ang mga Israelinhon sa kagutom kay nagpanumpa si Saul nga nagasiling, “Pakamalauton ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon antes maggab-i, sa indi pa ako makabalos sa akon mga kaaway.” Gani wala gid sing may nagkaon sa ila.
Pero wala makabati si Jonatan sa ginsumpa sang iya amay nga dapat tumanon sang mga tawo. Gani gintum-oy niya ang punta sang iya baston sa honey kag nagkaon siya, kag nag-ayo ang iya pamatyag.
Ginsilingan siya sang isa sa mga soldado, “Indi kita puwede magkaon kay nagsumpa ang imo amay nga pakamalauton ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon subong nga adlaw. Amo gani nga maluya ang mga tawo.”
Nagsiling si Jonatan, “Indi maayo ang ginahimo sang akon amay sa aton nasyon. Tan-awa bala kon daw ano kaayo sang akon pamatyag sang nakatilaw ako sang bisan diutay lang nga honey.
Didto man si Ahia nga pari nga pari , kag nagasuksok siya sang espesyal nga panapton
Daw ano pa gid ayhan kaayo sang aton pamatyag kon nagkaon kita sang aton mga nakuha sa aton mga kaaway, kag siguro madamo pa gid nga mga Filistinhon ang aton napatay.”
Sadto nga adlaw, matapos mapierdi sang mga Israelinhon ang mga Filistinhon halin sa Micmash hasta sa Ayalon, ginkapoy kag gin-gutom gid sila.
Gani nagdinaguso sila sa pagpanguha sang ila naagaw nga mga karnero kag mga baka, kag gin-ihaw nila ini didto mismo, kag ginkaon ang karne nga may dugo pa.
May isa nga nagsugid kay Saul, “Tan-awa, nagapakasala ang mga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagkaon sang karne nga may dugo pa.” Nagsiling si Saul, “Mga traidor! Paligira ninyo ang dako nga bato diri sa tupad ko.
Dayon magkadto kamo sa mga tawo kag silinga sila tanan nga magdala sang mga baka, karnero, kag kanding, kag ihawon nila diri kag kan-on. Silinga man sila nga indi sila magpakasala sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagkaon sang karne nga may dugo pa.” Gani sadto nga gab-i nagdala ang kada isa sang iya baka kay Saul kag gin-ihaw didto.
Dayon naghimo si Saul sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Amo ato ang una nga halaran nga iya ginhimo.
Nagsiling si Saul, “Salakayon ta karon nga gab-i ang mga Filistinhon. Pamatyon ta sila tanan kag panguhaon naton ang ila mga pagkabutang hasta mag-aga.” Nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Himua kon ano sa imo ang maayo.” Pero nagsiling ang pari, “Pamangkuton ta anay ang Dios parte sini.”
Gani nagpamangkot si Saul sa Dios, “Salakayon bala namon ang mga Filistinhon? Ipapierdi mo bala sila sa amon?” Pero wala magsabat ang Dios sadto nga adlaw.
Gani nagsiling si Saul sa mga pangulo sang katawhan sang Israel, “Dali kamo diri, kag hibaluon ta kon ano nga sala ang nahimo naton sini nga adlaw.
Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga nagaluwas sa mga Israelinhon, nga ang nakasala pagapatyon, bisan si Jonatan pa nga akon anak.” Pero wala gid sing may nagsabat.
Sa magtimbang nga kilid sang alagyan nga ginaagyan ni Jonatan pakadto sa balantayan sang mga Filistinhon, may duha ka banglid; ang isa ginatawag nga Bozez kag ang isa ginatawag nga Sene.
Nagsiling dayon si Saul sa tanan nga Israelinhon, “Tindog kamo dira, kag ako kag ang akon anak nga si Jonatan matindog diri.” Kag nagsugot ang mga tawo.
Dayon nagpangamuyo si Saul, “ Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, ipahibalo sa amon kon sin-o ang nakasala.” Kag paagi sa paggabot-gabot, si Jonatan kag si Saul ang nagabutan nga nakasala kag indi ang mga tawo.
Dayon nagsiling si Saul, “Gabot-gabuti ninyo kon sin-o sa amon ni Jonatan ang nakasala.” Kag ang nagabutan amo si Jonatan.
Dayon nagsiling si Saul kay Jonatan, “Ano ang imo ginhimo?” Nagsabat si Jonatan, “Gintum-oy ko ang punta sang akon baston sa honey kag nagkaon ako sing diutay lang. Ti, kinahanglan gid bala nga patyon ako?”
Nagsabat si Saul, “Huo! Kag kon indi ko ikaw pag-ipapatay, kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios sing puwerte gid.”
Pero nagsiling ang mga tawo kay Saul, “Si Jonatan ang nagpadaog sa aton, kag karon patyon naton siya? Indi mahimo! Nagasumpa kami sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga indi gid siya maano,
Dayon nag-untat si Saul sa paglagas sa mga Filistinhon, kag nagbalik ang mga Filistinhon sa ila lugar.
Sang naghari si Saul sa Israel, nagpakig-away siya sa ila mga kaaway sa palibot. Ang iya mga kaaway amo ang mga taga-Moab, mga taga-Ammon, mga taga-Edom, ang mga hari sang Zoba, kag ang mga Filistinhon. Bisan sin-o ang iya kontra ginalaglag niya.
Maisog siya magpakig-away, kag napierdi niya ang mga Amaleknon. Sa sini nga paagi ginluwas niya ang mga Israelinhon sa kamot sang mga nagsalakay sa ila kag nagpanguha sang ila mga pagkabutang.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Saul amo si Jonatan, si Ishvi, kag si Malkishua. Ang iya mga anak nga babayi amo si Merab, ang magulang, kag si Mical, ang manghod.
Ang isa nga ara sa north nagaatubang sa Micmash, kag ang isa nga ara sa south nagaatubang sa Geba.
Ang asawa ni Saul amo si Ahinoam, nga anak ni Ahimaaz. Ang kumander sang iya mga soldado amo ang iya pakaisa nga si Abner, nga anak sang iya tiyo nga si Ner.
Ang amay ni Saul nga si Kish kag ang amay ni Abner nga si Ner mga anak ni Abiel.
Puwerte ang inaway sang mga Israelinhon kag sang mga Israelinhon kag sang mga Filistinhon sa bilog nga pagkabuhi ni Saul. Kon may makita si Saul nga maisog kag makusog nga tawo ginahimo dayon niya nga soldado.
Nagsiling si Jonatan sa manugdala sang iya armas, “Dali, kadtuan ta ang balantayan sang mga tawo nga wala nagatuo sa Dios.
Nagsiling ang manugdala sang iya armas, “Himua ang gusto mo; kaupod mo ako bisan ano ang matabo.”
Nagsiling si Jonatan, “Dali na, makadto kita sa ila kag magpakita.
Kon magsiling sila nga sila ang magdulhog sa aton para magpakig-away, indi na kita magtaklad kundi hulaton ta sila.
Nagsiling si Samuel kay Saul, “Ako amo ang ginpadala sadto sang Ginoo Ginoo sa paghaplas sa imo sang lana sa pagpakita nga ikaw ang pinili nga hari sang iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Gani pamatii ining mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom:
Karon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel,
“Naghinulsol ako nga ginhimo ko si Saul nga hari, tungod kay nagtalikod siya sa akon kag wala niya gintuman ang akon mga sugo.” Pagkabati sini ni Pagkabati sini ni Samuel, nangakig gid siya, gani nagpangamuyo siya sa Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog nga gab-i.
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nagbangon si Samuel kag naglakat sa pagpakigkita kay Saul. Pero may nagsiling sa iya, “Nagkadto si Saul sa Carmel sa pagpatindog didto sang monumento para sa iya kadungganan, kag pagkatapos nagkadto siya sa Gilgal.”
Ginkadtuan ni Samuel si Saul. Kag sang magkitaay sila, nagsiling si Saul sa iya, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo ! Gintuman ko ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pero nagsiling si Samuel, “ Kon matuod nga gintuman mo ang sugo sang Ginoo , Kon matuod nga gintuman mo ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ti ngaa may nabatian ako nga mga karnero kag mga baka nga nagaima?”
Nagsabat si Saul, “Mga pinakamaayo ina nga mga baka kag mga karnero nga gindala sang mga soldado halin sa mga Amaleknon. Wala nila ina pagpatya kay ihalad nila sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, pero ang iban ginlaglag namon sing bug-os
Nagsiling si Samuel, “Tama na! Sugiran ko ikaw kon ano ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon kagab-i.” Nagsabat si Saul, “Sugiri ako.”
Nagsiling si Samuel, “Bisan ginkabig mo sadto ang imo kaugalingon nga kubos, ginpili ka gihapon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mangin hari sang mga tribo sang Israel.
Kag ginpadala ka niya sa isa ka misyon. Siling niya, ‘Laglaga sing bug-os ang mga Amaleknon, ang malain nga katawhan. Magpakig-away ka sa ila hasta nga maubos sila pamatay.’
Pero ngaa wala ka magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo ? Ngaa nga nagdinaguso kamo sa pagpanguha sang ila mga pagkabutang? Ngaa ginhimo mo ining malain nga butang sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo ?”
‘Silutan ko ang mga Amaleknon tungod sa ila pagsalakay sa mga Israelinhon sang naghalin sila sa Egypt.
Nagsabat si Saul, “Pero gintuman ko ang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginhimo ko ang misyon nga ginhatag niya sa akon. Ginbihag ko si Agag nga hari sang mga Amaleknon, kag ginlaglag ko sing bug-os ang iya katawhan.
Pero nagdala ang akon mga soldado sang pinakamaayo nga mga karnero kag mga baka nga halin sa mga naagaw sa inaway, nga laglagon kuntani kuntani sing bug-os. Gindala nila ini diri sa Gilgal para ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios.”
Pero nagsabat si Samuel, “Mas malipay pa bala ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo mga halad sang sa inyo pagtuman sa iya? Ang pagtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo mas maayo pa sang sa paghalad. Ang pagpamati sa iya mas maayo pa sang sa paghalad sang tambok sang mga karnero.
Ang pagrebelde sa Ginoo Ginoo pareho lang kalain sa pagkababaylan; kag ang pagkatig-a sing ulo pareho lang kalain sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios. Tungod kay ginsikway mo ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginsikway ka man niya bilang hari.”
Dayon nagsiling si Saul kay Samuel, “Nakasala ako; ginsupak ko ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang imo mga ginsiling sa akon. Nahadlok ako sa mga tawo, gani ginpasundan ko lang sila.
Pero karon, nagapakitluoy ako sa imo nga patawaron mo ako sa akon mga sala, kag mag-upod ka sa akon sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pero nagsiling si Samuel, “Indi ako mag-upod sa imo. Ginsikway mo ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ginsikway ka man niya bilang hari sang Israel.”
Sang nagtalikod si Samuel sa paglakat, ginhawiran ni Saul ang punta sang iya bayo, kag nagisi ini.
Nagsiling dayon si Samuel sa iya, “ Pareho man sini ang matabo sa imo: Pareho man sini ang matabo sa imo: kuhaon subong nga adlaw sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo ang ginharian sang Israel kag ihatag sa imo kapareho nga Israelinhon nga mas maayo sang sa imo.
Ang Dios nga ginapabugal sang Israel wala nagabutig kag wala nagabaylo ang iya hunahuna, kay indi siya tawo nga nagabaylo ang iya hunahuna.”
Gani karon, salakaya ang mga Amaleknon! Laglaga sing bug-os
Nagsabat si Saul, “Nakasala ako! Pero palihog padunggi ako sa atubangan sang mga manugdumala sang akon katawhan kag sa atubangan sang bilog nga Israel paagi sa pag-upod sa akon sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios.”
Gani nag-upod si Samuel kay Saul, kag nagsimba si Saul sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Karon, nagsiling si Samuel, “Dal-a diri sa akon si Agag nga hari sang mga Amaleknon.” Nagpalapit si Agag kay Samuel nga wala gid ginakulbaan. Nagahunahuna siya nga indi na siya pagpatyon.
Pero nagsiling si Samuel, “Subong nga madamo nga iloy ang nawad-an sang mga bata tungod sang imo pagpamatay, patyon ko man ikaw para patyon ko man ikaw para ang imo iloy mawad-an man sang bata.” Gani ginpatay ni Samuel si Agag sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Gilgal.
Dayon nagbalik si Samuel sa Rama, kag si Saul ya nagpuli sa Gibea.
Halin sadto, wala na gid magpakigkita si Samuel kay Saul hasta sang napatay si Samuel, pero nagpangasubo gid siya kay Saul. Naghinulsol ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginhimo niya nga hari si Saul sa Israel.
Gani ginpatipon ni Saul ang mga soldado sa Telaim. May 200,000 ka soldado ang nagtipon, kag may 10,000 man nga halin sa Juda.
Dayon nagkadto sila ni Saul sa banwa sang Amalek, kag naghulat sila sa ililigan sang tubig sa pagsalakay.
Nagpadala si Saul sang sini nga mensahi sa mga Kenhanon: “Lakat kamo! Bayai ninyo ang mga Amaleknon para indi ko kamo paglaglagon upod sa ila, kay maayo kamo sa mga Israelinhon sang nagguwa sila sa Egypt.” Gani nagpalayo ang mga Kenhanon sa mga Amaleknon.
Dayon ginsalakay nila ni Saul ang mga Amaleknon sa Havila hasta sa Shur, sa east sang Egypt.
Isa sadto ka tion, Isa sadto ka tion, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel, “Hasta san-o pa bala ang imo pagpangasubo kay Saul? Ginsikway ko na siya bilang hari sang Israel. Karon pun-a sang lana ang imo suludlan nga sungay sang sapat, kay pakadtuon ko ikaw kay Jesse nga taga-Betlehem. Ginpili ko na ang isa sang iya mga anak nga mangin hari.”
Sang napakadto na ni Jesse ang iya pito ka anak kay Samuel, nagsiling si Samuel sa iya, “Wala gid sing isa sa ila nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Dayon nagpamangkot si Samuel kay Jesse, “Sila lang bala ang imo mga anak?” Nagsabat si Jesse, “May ara pa, ang kamanghuran, pero nagabantay siya sang mga karnero.” Nagsiling si Samuel, “Pakadtua siya diri, kay indi kita magpadayon sa aton buluhaton hasta indi siya mag-abot.”
Gani ginpatawag ni Jesse si David, kag ginpakadto didto sa ila. Guwapo siya, manami ang iya mata, kag mapula-pula ang iya guya. Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel, “Haplasi siya sang lana kay siya ang akon napilian.”
Gani ginkuha ni Samuel ang lana kag ginhaplasan niya si David sa atubangan sang iya mga utod. Kag halin sadto nga adlaw gin-gamhan si David sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagpuli dayon si Samuel sa Rama.
Karon naghalin ang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Saul, kag ginpaantos siya sang malain nga espiritu nga ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling ang mga suluguon ni Saul sa iya, “Ginapaantos ka sang malain nga espiritu nga ginpadala sang Dios.
Gani, Mahal nga Hari, tuguti kami nga magpangita sang makahibalo magtukar sang arpa, kay kon paantuson ka na gani sang malain nga espiritu nga ginpadala sang Dios, tukaron niya ang arpa kag magatawhay ang imo pamatyag.”
Gani nagsiling si Saul sa iya mga suluguon, “Sige, pangita kamo sang tawo nga maayo magtukar sang arpa kag dal-a siya diri sa akon.”
Nagsabat ang isa sa iya mga suluguon, “Nakita ko nga ang isa sa mga anak ni Jesse nga taga-Betlehem kahibalo magtukar sang arpa. Wala labot sina, maisog pa siya kag maayo magpakig-away. Guwapo siya kag maayo maghambal, kag ginabuligan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gani nagpadala si Saul sang mga mensahero kay Jesse sa pagsiling sa iya nga pakadtuon niya didto ang iya anak nga si David nga manugbantay sang mga karnero.
Pero nagsiling si Samuel, “Paano ako makakadto didto? Kon mahibaluan ini ni Saul, patyon niya ako.” Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magdala ka sang bataon nga babayi nga baka sa Betlehem, sa Betlehem, kag silingon mo ang mga tawo didto nga nagkadto ka sa paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ginpadala ni Jesse si David kay Saul nga may dala nga mga regalo— mga regalo— isa ka donkey nga kargado sang tinapay, isa ka suludlan nga panit nga puno sang bino, kag isa ka bataon nga kanding.
Sang didto na si David kay Saul, nag-alagad siya sa iya. Nagustuhan gid siya ni Saul, kag ginhimo siya ni Saul nga manugdala sang iya armas.
Dayon nagpadala sang mensahi si Saul kay Jesse nga nagasiling, “Tuguti si David nga magpabilin sa pag-alagad sa akon, kay nagustuhan ko siya.”
Kada mag-abot kay Saul ang malain nga malain nga espiritu nga ginapadala sang Dios, ginakuha dayon ni David ang iya arpa kag ginatukar. Nagakaumpawan dayon si Saul kag nagahalin sa iya ang malain nga espiritu.
Agdaha si Jesse sa imo paghalad, kag tudluan ko ikaw kon ano ang imo himuon. Itudlo ko sa imo ang tawo nga ginpili ko nga mangin hari. Dayon haplasan mo ang iya ulo sang lana.”
Gintuman ni Samuel ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pag-abot niya sa Betlehem, ginsugata siya sang mga manugdumala sang banwa nga nagakurog sa kahadlok. Nagpamangkot sila, “Maayo bala ang tuyo mo sa pagkadto diri?”
Nagsabat si Samuel, “Huo, nagkadto ako diri sa paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Magpakatinlo kamo kag mag-upod sa akon sa paghalad.” Dayon ginhimo ni Samuel ang seremonya nga para mangin matinlo si Jesse kag ang iya mga anak, kag gin-agda niya sila sa paghalad.
Sang pag-abot nila sa ginahalaran, sa ginahalaran, nakita ni Samuel ang isa sa mga anak ni Jesse nga ang isa sa mga anak ni Jesse nga si Eliab, kag nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Sigurado nga amo ini siya ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mangin hari.”
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Samuel, “Indi pagbasihi ang iya hitsura ukon ang iya kataason. Ang matuod, wala ko siya ginpili. Kay ang akon pagtan-aw indi pareho sa pagtan-aw sang tawo. Ang tawo nagatan-aw lang sa hitsura, pero ako ya nagatan-aw sa tagipusuon.”
Dayon gintawag ni Jesse ang iya anak nga ang iya anak nga si Abinadab kag ginpakadto kay Samuel. Pero nagsiling si Samuel, “Indi siya ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Dayon ginpakadto ni Jesse si Shama kay Samuel, pero nagsiling si Samuel, “Indi man siya ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Karon, gintipon sang mga Filistinhon ang ila mga soldado sa Soco nga sakop sang Juda, para magpakig-away. Nagkampo sila sa Efes Damim, sa tunga-tunga sang Soco kag Azeka.
Karon, ginahangkat ko kamo! Pakadtua ninyo sa akon ang tawo nga magpakig-away sa akon.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Saul kag sang mga Israelinhon, hinadlukan gid sila.
Karon, may anak si Jesse nga si David. Si Jesse isa ka Efratanhon nga nagaestar sa Betlehem nga sakop sang Juda. Tigulang na siya sang panahon ni Saul. May walo siya ka anak nga lalaki.
Ang tatlo niya ka magulang nga anak nag-upod kay Saul sa inaway. Ang kamagulangan amo si Eliab, ang ikaduha si Abinadab, kag ang ikatlo si Shama.
Ang kamanghuran amo si David. Kag samtang nagaupod ang tatlo kay Saul sa pagpakig-away,
si David ya nagapulopauli sa Betlehem halin sa kampo ni kampo ni Saul sa pagtatap sang mga karnero sang iya amay.
Sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw ginahangkat ni Goliat ang mga Israelinhon adlaw-gab-i.
Isa sina ka adlaw, nagsiling si Jesse kay David, “Anak, magdali-dali ka kadto sa imo mga utod sa kampo kag dal-i sila sang mga tunga sa sako nga sinanlag nga uyas kag napulo ka bilog nga tinapay.
Dal-i man sang napulo ka keso ang kumander sang mga soldado. Usisaa kon kamusta na ang kahimtangan sang imo mga utod, kag magbalik ka diri nga may dala nga pamatuod nga maayo ang ila kahimtangan.
Didto sila subong sa Kapatagan sang Elah nga nagapakig-away sa mga Filistinhon kaupod kay Saul kag sa iban nga mga Israelinhon.”
Gintipon man ni Saul ang mga Israelinhon kag nagkampo sila malapit sa Kapatagan sang Elah. Nagpreparar sila sa pagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon.
Gani sang sunod nga adlaw, aga pa gid nagbangon si David kag nagpreparar sang pagkaon nga iya dalal-on. Ginbilin niya ang mga karnero sa isa ka manugbantay, kag dayon naglakat siya suno sa ginsiling sang iya amay. Sang pag-abot niya sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon, nagapaguwa gid ang mga soldado nga nagasinggit sa pagpakig-away.
Kag sang ulihi nagaatubangay na ang mga Israelinhon kag ang mga Filistinhon nga handa na sa pag-inaway.
Ginbilin ni David ang iya mga dala sa nagadumala sang mga kinahanglanon sang mga soldado, kag nagdalagan siya sa ginaawayan kag ginkumusta ang iya mga utod.
Samtang nagapakighambal siya sa ila, nag-abanse si Goliat, ang maayo mag-away nga Filistinhon nga taga-Gat, kag ginhangkat naman niya ang mga Israelinhon. Kag nabatian ini ni David.
Sang makita sang mga Israelinhon si Goliat, nagdinalagan sila sa puwerte nga kahadlok.
Nag-estoryahanay sila, “Nakita bala ninyo ato nga tawo nga nagasalakay para hangkaton ang Israel? Pagahatagan sang hari sang dako nga premyo ang tawo nga makapatay sa iya. Kag indi lang ina, kundi ipaasawa pa niya ang iya anak sa iya, kag indi pagpabayaron ang ila pamilya sang buhis sa Israel.”
Nagpamangkot si David sa mga tawo nga nagatindog malapit sa iya, “Sin-o gid bala inang Filistinhon, nga wala nagatuo sa Dios,
Ginsugid sang mga tawo sa iya ang ila ginahambalan parte sa premyo nga mabaton sang tawo nga makapatay kay Goliat.
Sang mabatian ni Eliab, nga kamagulangan nga utod ni David, nga nagapakighambal si David sa mga tawo, nangakig gid siya. Nagsiling siya kay David, “Ngaa nagkadto ka diri? Sin-o ang ginpabantay mo sa aton mga karnero sa kamingawan nga pila na lang ka bilog? Nagahunahuna ka siguro nga daw si sin-o ka gid. Kalain sang imo batasan! Nagkadto ka diri para lang magtan-aw sang inaway.”
Nagsiling si David, “Ngaa ano bala ang akon ginhimo? Nagpamangkot man lang ako!”
Nagtipon ang mga Filistinhon sa pihak nga bukid kag ang mga Israelinhon sa pihak man nga bukid, kag pulopatag sa tunga nila.
Dayon gintalikdan siya ni David kag nag-atubang sa iban naman nga mga tawo kag nagpamangkot sang amo man gihapon nga pamangkot, kag amo man gihapon ang ila sabat sa iya.
Ang pagpangusisa ni David nakaabot kay Saul, gani ginpatawag siya ni Saul.
Pag-abot ni David, nagsiling siya kay Saul, “Wala sing isa nga dapat madulaan sang kaisog tungod sa sini nga Filistinhon. Ako nga imo alagad magapakig-away sa iya.”
Nagsabat si Saul, “Indi ka makasarang sa pagpakig-away sa sina nga Filistinhon. Bata ka pa kag siya ya mangangaway na halin sang bata pa siya.”
Pero nagsabat si David, “Sir, halin sang una, manugbantay ako sang mga karnero sang akon amay. Kon tabanon gani sang leon ukon bear ang karnero,
ginalagas ko ini kag ginalampusan, kag ginakuha ang karnero. Kon magbato siya sa akon ginadakop ko siya sa liog
Nahimo ko ini sa leon kag sa bear, kag himuon ko man sa sinang Filistinhon nga wala nagatuo sa Dios,
Nagsiling si Saul kay David, “Sige, lakat, kag kabay pa nga magaupod ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.”
Ginpasuksok niya dayon kay David ang iya sulul-ubon para sa inaway—ang saway nga helmet kag ang panagang sa dughan.
Gintaklos dayon ni David ang espada ni Saul kag nagtilaw sa paglakat-lakat tungod nga wala siya maanad sa sina nga mga sulul-ubon. Nagsiling siya kay Saul, “Indi ako makapakig-away nga may ginasul-ob nga pareho sini, kay wala ako maanad sini.” Gani gin-uba niya ato tanan.
Karon, may isa ka tawo nga taga-Gat nga maayo mag-away. Ang iya ngalan si Goliat. Nagguwa siya sa kampo sang mga Filistinhon kag nagpalapit sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon kag nagpalapit sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon . Sobra 9 feet
Dayon ginkuha niya ang iya sungkod, kag nagpulot sang lima ka mahining nga bato sa ililigan sang tubig kag ginsulod sa iya bag nga ginadala niya kon magbantay siya sang sapat. Gindala niya ang iya labyog kag nagpalapit kay Goliat.
Nagapalapit man sa iya si Goliat nga nagauna sa iya ang manugdala sang iya armas.
Sang matalupangdan ni Goliat nga si David isa lang ka pamatan-on nga guwapo kag mapula-pula sing guya, ginyaguta niya siya.
Nagsiling siya kay David, “Ido bala ako nga gindal-an mo ako sang lipak?” Kag ginpakamalaot niya si David sa ngalan sang iya mga dios.
Dayon nagsiling siya, “Palapit diri, kay ipakaon ko ang imo bangkay sa mga pispis kag sa mapintas nga mga sapat!”
Nagsabat si David, “Nagapalapit ka sa pagpakig-away sa akon nga may espada, bangkaw, kag sibat, pero nagapalapit ako sa pagpakig-away sa imo sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang mga soldado sang Israel nga imo ginahangkat.
Sa sini nga adlaw, itugyan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon; patyon ko ikaw kag utdon ang imo ulo. Kag sa sini man nga adlaw ipakaon ko ang mga bangkay sang mga Filistinhon sa mga pispis kag sa mapintas nga mga sapat, kag mahibaluan sang bilog nga kalibutan nga may Dios ang Israel.
Ang tanan nga nagatipon diri makahibalo nga makaluwas ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya katawhan sa iya katawhan bisan wala sing espada ukon bangkaw, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo amo ang magapakig-away, kag itugyan niya kamo tanan sa amon.”
Samtang nagapalapit si Goliat sa iya, nagdalagan si David sa pagsugata sa iya.
Nagkuha si David sang bato sa iya bag, kag iya ini ginlabyog
Saway ang iya helmet, kag saway man ang iya panagang sa dughan nga nagabug-at sing mga 60 ka kilo.
Gani nagdaog si David kay Goliat paagi lang sa labyog kag sa isa ka bato. Napatay niya si Goliat bisan wala siya sing espada.
Nagdalagan si David kay Goliat kag ginkuha niya ang espada sini, kag gin-utod ang iya ulo. Sang makita sang mga Filistinhon nga patay na ang ila soldado nga maayo mag-away, nagpalalagyo sila.
Dayon nag-abanse ang mga soldado sang Israel kag Juda nga nagasinggit, kag ginlagas nila ang mga Filistinhon hasta sa Gat
Pagkatapos nila lagas sa mga Filistinhon, nagbalik sila kag ginpanguha nila ang mga nagkalabilin sa kampo sang mga Filistinhon.
Ginkuha ni David ang ulo ni Goliat kag gindala sa Jerusalem, kag ginbutang niya sa iya tolda ang mga armas ni Goliat.
Sadtong tion nga nakita ni Saul si David nga nagapalapit kay Goliat sa pagpakig-away, nagpamangkot siya kay Abner nga kumander sang mga soldado, “Abner, kay sin-o anak inang pamatan-on?” Nagsabat si Abner, “Wala gid ako kahibalo, Mahal nga Hari.”
Nagsiling si Saul, “Usisaa kon kay sin-o siya anak.”
Sang magbalik si David sa ila kampo sa ila kampo matapos niya napatay si Goliat, gindala siya ni Abner kay Saul. Nagabitbit pa si David sang ulo ni Goliat.
Nagpamangkot si Saul sa iya, “Toto, kay sin-o ka anak?” Nagsabat si David, “Anak ako sang imo sakop nga si Jesse nga taga-Betlehem.”
Ang iya mga paa kag mga batiis may hapin nga saway, kag may nagasablay nga saway nga sibat sa iya likod.
Ang iya bangkaw mabug-at kag madamol;
Nagpundo si Goliat kag nagsinggit sa mga Israelinhon, “Ngaa kinahanglan pa nga tanan tanan kamo magpakig-away? Isa lang Isa lang ako nga Filistinhon pero kamo nga mga suluguon ni Saul madamo madamo . Magpili kamo sang isa ka tawo nga magpakig-away sa akon.
Kon mapatay niya ako, mangin ulipon ninyo kami, pero kon mapatay ko siya, mangin ulipon namon kamo kag mag-alagad kamo sa amon.
Matapos makahambalanay si David kag si Saul, nag-amigohay si David kag ang anak ni Saul nga si Jonatan. Palangga gid ni Jonatan si David pareho sang iya kaugalingon.
Nahadlok si Saul kay David kay ginaupdan sang Ginoo Ginoo si David, kag siya ya ginbayaan na sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ginpapalayo niya si David sa iya, kag ginhimo niya siya nga kumander sang 1,000 ka soldado. Ginpanguluhan ni David ang mga soldado sa pagpakig-away.
Nagmadinalag-on siya sa tanan nga ginhimo niya tungod kay nagaupod ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya.
Sang mahibaluan ni Saul nga madinalag-on si David, hinadlukan na gid siya tapat.
Pero naluyagan gid sang tanan nga taga-Israel kag taga-Juda si David, tungod kay ginapanguluhan niya sila sa pagpakig-away.
Karon nagsiling si Saul kay David, “Handa ako nga ipaasawa sa imo ang akon kamagulangan nga anak nga si Merab sa kondisyon nga ipakita mo sa akon ang imo kaisog sa pagpakig-away para sa Ginoo Ginoo .” Sa hunahuna ni Saul nga sa sini nga paagi mapatay si David sang mga Filistinhon, kag indi na kinahanglan nga siya pa ang magpatay sa iya.
Pero nagsiling si David kay Saul, “Sin-o gid bala ako kag ang akon pamilya nga mangin umagad ako sang hari?”
Sang tion nga ipaasawa na si Merab kay David, ginpaasawa ni Saul si Merab kay Adriel nga taga-Mehola.
Halin sadto wala na ginpapuli ni Saul si David sa ila balay.
Karon ang isa pa ka anak ni Saul nga babayi nga si Mical naluyag kay David. Kag sang ginsugiran si Saul parte sini, nalipay siya.
Nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Ipaasawa ko si Mical kay David, kag himuon ko siya nga paon para mapatay si David sang mga Filistinhon.” Gani nagsiling si Saul kay David, “May kahigayunan ka pa nga mangin akon umagad.”
Sang ulihi ginsugo ni Saul ang iya mga alagad nga magpakig-estorya kay David sa sekreto, kag ihambal ini sa iya, “Nagustuhan ka gid sang hari kag sang tanan niya nga mga alagad. Gani magsugot ka na nga mangin iya umagad.”
Sang ginhambal nila ini kay David, nagsiling siya, “Indi ako makasarang sa pagbayad kay Saul para mapangasawa ko ang iya anak. Imol lang ako kag indi gani kilala.”
Sang ginsugiran nila si Saul sang ginsiling ni David,
nagsiling si Saul, “Silinga ninyo si David nga ang akon lang kinahanglan bilang bayad sa pagpangasawa sa akon anak amo ang panit sa punta sang kinatawo sang 100 ka Filistinhon,
Sang ginsugid ini sang mga alagad ni Saul kay David, nalipay siya nga mangin umagad sang hari. Gani sa wala pa mag-abot ang tion nga gintalana ni Saul kay David ni Saul kay David ,
nagpakig-away si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa mga Filistinhon kag nakapatay sila sang 200 ka Filistinhon. Ginpakuha niya dayon ang panit sa punta sang kinatawo sang mga Filistinhon kag gindala ini tanan sa hari, para mangin umagad siya sang hari. Gani ginpaasawa ni Saul ang iya anak nga si Mical kay David.
Sang mareyalisar ni Saul nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nagaupod kay David kag naluyag gid ang iya anak nga si Mical kay David,
hinadlukan na gid siya tapat kay David. Kag padayon nga kaaway niya si David samtang buhi pa siya.
Naghimo si Jonatan sang kasugtanan kay David nga amiguhon niya siya hasta san-o, nga amiguhon niya siya hasta san-o, tungod kay palangga gid niya si David pareho sang iya kaugalingon.
Padayon nga nagpakig-away ang mga Filistinhon sa mga Israelinhon. Kag kada inaway, madinalag-on si David labaw sang sa iban nga mga opisyal ni Saul. Gani nangin bantog gid si David.
Sa pagpamatuod sang iya promisa, Sa pagpamatuod sang iya promisa, gin-uba niya ang iya pangguwa nga bayo kag ginhatag kay David, pati ang iya pangtabon nga panapton, espada, pana, kag paha.
Nagmadinalag-on si David sa mga ginpahimo sa iya ni Saul, gani ginhatagan siya ni Saul sang mataas nga rangko sa iya mga soldado. Nagustuhan ini sang tanan nga tawo pati man sang mga opisyal ni Saul.
Karon, sang nagapalauli na ang mga Israelinhon matapos mapatay ni David si Goliat, ginsugata si Saul sang mga babayi nga halin sa tanan nga banwa sang Israel. Malipayon sila nga nagakinanta kag nagasinaot nga may mga tamborin kag mga lira.
“Pila lang ka libo ang napatay ni Saul, pero kay David ya tignapulo ka libo.”
Naakig gid si Saul sang mabatian niya ang ila kanta. Nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Nagasiling sila nga tignapulo ka libo ang napatay ni David pero ang akon iya pila lang ka libo. Sa sunod himuon na nila siya nga hari.”
Gani halin sadto ginabantayan na sing maayo ni Saul si David tungod kay nahisa siya sa iya.
Karon, ginsilingan ni Saul si Jonatan kag ang tanan niya nga alagad nga patyon si David. Pero palangga gid ni Jonatan si David,
gintinguhaan ni Saul nga itapik si David sa dingding paagi sa pagbangkaw sa iya. Pero nakalikaw si David. Dayon nagpalagyo si David sina nga gab-i.
Nagpadala dayon si Saul sang mga tinawo sa pagbantay sa balay ni David kag sa pagpatay sa iya pagkaaga. Pero ginpaandaman si David ni Mical nga iya asawa, “Kon indi ka magpalagyo karon nga gab-i, buwas patyon ka.”
Gani ginbuligan ni Mical si David nga makapanaog sa bintana, kag nagpalagyo si David.
Nagkuha dayon si Mical sang dios-dios kag ginpahigda sa hiligdaan. Ginhabulan niya ini kag ginbutangan sang bulbol sang kanding ang ulo.
Sang pag-abot sang mga tinawo nga ginpadala ni Saul sa pagdakop kay David, ginsilingan sila ni Mical nga nagamasakit si David.
Sang ginsugid nila ini kay Saul, Sang ginsugid nila ini kay Saul, ginpabalik sila ni Saul para tan-awon nila mismo si David, kag ginsilingan niya sila, “Dal-a ninyo siya diri sa akon nga nagahigda sa iya hiligdaan para patyon ko siya.”
Pero sang pagsulod nila sa balay ni David, sa balay ni David, nadiskobrehan nila nga ang nagahigda dios-dios gali nga may bulbol sang kanding sa ulo.
Nagsiling si Saul kay Mical, “Ngaa gindayaan mo ako kag ginpapalagyo ang akon kaaway?” Nagsabat si Mical, “Nagsiling siya sa akon nga patyon niya ako kon indi ko siya pagbuligan nga makapalagyo.”
Gani nakapalagyo si David kag nagkadto siya kay Samuel sa Rama, kag ginsugiran niya si Samuel sang tanan nga ginhimo ni Saul sa iya. Dayon nagkadto sila ni Samuel sa Nayot kag didto nagtiner.
May nakabalita kay Saul nga si David didto sa Nayot sa Rama.
gani ginpaandaman niya si David. Siling niya, Siling niya, “Nagapangita sang kahigayunan ang akon amay sa pagpatay sa imo, gani mag-andam ka gid. Buwas sa aga magpanago ka kag indi ka maghalin,
Gani nagpadala siya sang mga tawo sa pagdakop kay David. Pero pag-abot nila, pag-abot nila, nakita nila ang grupo sang mga propeta nga nagahalambalanon, kag si Samuel ang nagapangulo sa ila. Dayon gin-gamhan sang Espiritu sang Dios ang mga tinawo ni Saul kag naghalambalanon man sila.
Sang mabatian ni Saul ang natabo, nagpadala pa gid siya sang mga tinawo sa pagdakop kay David sa pagdakop kay David . Pero pag-abot nila, pag-abot nila, naghalambalanon man sila. Nagpadala pa gid si Saul sang mga tawo sa ikatatlo nga tion, kag naghalambalanon man gihapon sila.
Sang ulihi si Saul na gid mismo ang nagkadto sa Rama. Pag-abot niya sa dako nga buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig didto sa Secu, nagpamangkot siya kon diin si Samuel kag si David. Ginsugiran siya nga didto sa Nayot.
Pero samtang nagapakadto siya didto, gin-gamhan man siya sang Espiritu sang Dios kag naghalambalanon siya hasta nakaabot siya sa Nayot.
Sang didto na siya, gin-uba niya ang iya bayo kag naghalambalanon siya sa atubangan ni Samuel. Naghigda siya nga nagauba sa bilog nga adlaw kag gab-i. Amo ini ang rason kon ngaa nagpamangkot ang mga tawo, “Nangin propeta na bala si Saul?”
sa isa ka lugar sa sa isa ka lugar sa sa uma. Dal-on ko didto si tatay kag estoryahon ko siya parte sa imo. Dayon sugiran ko ikaw kon ano ang akon madiskobrehan.”
Gani gindala ni Jonatan si Saul didto sa uma, kag gindala ni Jonatan si Saul didto sa uma, kag gindayaw ni Jonatan si David sa iya amay. Dayon nagsiling siya, “Tay,
Gintaya niya ang iya kabuhi sang ginpatay niya ang Filistinhon nga si Goliat, nga si Goliat, kag ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo ang bilog nga Israel. Nakita mo ini kag nalipay ka gid. Ti ngaa gusto mo patyon ang isa ka inosente nga tawo pareho kay David nga wala man lang sing rason?”
Ginpamatian ni Saul si Jonatan kag nagpanumpa siya sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga indi niya pag-ipapatay si David.
Sang ulihi gintawag ni Jonatan si David kag ginsugiran sang tanan nila nga ginhambalan ni Saul. Gindala niya dayon si David kay Saul, kag nag-alagad si David kay Saul pareho sang una.
Sang ulihi nag-inaway naman ang mga Filistinhon kag mga Israelinhon, kag ginpanguluhan ni David ang iya mga tinawo sa pagpakig-away. Puwerte gid ang pagsalakay nila ni David, gani nagpalalagyo ang mga Filistinhon.
Isa sina ka tion, gin-gamhan
Karon, nagpalagyo si David halin sa Nayot sa Rama kag nagkadto kay Jonatan kag nagpamangkot, “Ano bala ang sala nga nahimo ko sa imo amay nga gusto niya ako nga patyon?”
Nagpamangkot si David, “Sin-o ang magsugid sa akon kon mangakig ang imo amay?”
Nagsiling si Jonatan, “Dali, malakat kita sa uma.” Gani naglakat sila.
Nagsiling si Jonatan kay David, “Nagapromisa ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga sa amo sini nga oras buwas ukon sa sunod nga adlaw, makipag-estorya ako sa akon amay, kag kon maayo ang iya buot sa imo pahibaluon ko ikaw.
Pero kon may tuyo ang akon amay sa pagpatay sa imo, kag indi ko ikaw pagpahibaluon para makapalagyo ka, kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sing puwerte gid. Karon, kabay pa nga updan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang iya pag-upod sadto sa akon amay.
Kag kabay pa nga samtang buhi pa ako, ipakita mo ang imo paghigugma sa akon pareho sang paghigugma sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton sa aton . Kag kon patay na ako,
ipadayon mo gihapon ang imo paghigugma sa akon pamilya, bisan patyon pa sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan mo nga kaaway.”
Gani naghimo si Jonatan sang kasugtanan sa panimalay ni David, kag nagsiling siya, “Kabay pa nga ipalaglag ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo mga kaaway kon indi mo pagtumanon ang akon pangabay.”
Ginpasumpa liwat ni Jonatan si David sa pagpalangga sa iya, tungod kay palangga gid niya si David pareho sang iya kaugalingon.
Dayon nagsiling si Jonatan kay David, “Buwas Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, kag mahibaluan gid nga wala ka didto kay bakante ang imo pulungkuan.
Sa isa ka buwas, kon maggab-i na magkadto ka sa imo anay ginpanaguan sa uma. Didto ka maghulat sa may bato sang Ezel.
Nagsabat si Jonatan, “Indi ka mapatay! Wala nagahimo sang bisan ano ang akon amay nga wala niya ginapahibalo sa akon, bisan indi ina importante. Kon nagtinguha gid man siya sa pagpatay sa imo, ginpahibalo niya kuntani ako. Gani indi ina matuod!”
Dayon magapana ako sang tatlo ka beses sa kilid sang sini nga bato nga daw may ginapana ako.
Padalaganon ko dayon ang isa ka bata kag ipapangita sa iya ang mga pana. Kon magsiling ako sa iya nga ara ang mga pana sa tupad niya, kag kuhaon niya ini kag dal-on sa akon, magguwa ka. Kay ginasiguro ko gid sa imo, sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga wala ka sing kahadlukan nga katalagman.
Pero kon magsiling ako sa bata nga ang mga pana sa unhan pa niya, nagakahulugan ina nga kinahanglan magpalagyo ka kay ginapapalagyo ka sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag kon parte sa aton ginsumpaan dumduma nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang aton saksi hasta san-o.”
Gani nagpanago si David sa uma. Kag sang nag-abot ang adlaw sang Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, nagpungko si Haring Saul para magkaon.
Didto siya nagpungko sa iya kinaandan nga pulungkuan malapit sa dingding. Si Jonatan nagapungko sa iya atubangan, kag si Abner sa iya tupad. Pero ang pulungkuan ni David bakante.
Wala sing may ginsiling si Saul parte kay David sadto nga adlaw kay naghunahuna siya nga basi may nahimo si David nga nakapahigko sa iya, gani indi siya takos sa pagpartisipar sa piesta.
Pero sang sunod nga adlaw, ang ikaduha nga adlaw sang bulan, bakante gihapon ang pulungkuan ni David. Gani nagpamangkot si Saul kay Jonatan, “Ngaa wala magkadto diri si David nga anak ni Jesse sa pagkaon kahapon hasta subong?”
Nagsabat si Jonatan, “Naglisensya si David sa akon nga mapuli siya sa Betlehem.
Kay nagsiling ang iya utod nga mag-upod gid siya sa ila pamilya sa paghalad, kag gusto niya makita ang iya mga paryente. Amo ina nga indi ninyo siya kaupod sa pagkaon.”
Pero nagsiling si David, “Nahibaluan sang imo amay nga maayo ka sa akon, gani ginpakamaayo niya nga indi ka pagpahibaluon sang iya plano nga pagpatay sa akon kay basi maglain gid ang imo buot. Pero ginasiguro ko gid sa imo, kag sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga ara ako sa peligro sang kamatayon.”
Naakig gid si Saul kay Jonatan. Siling niya, “Dungol kag ritubado ka gid nga bata! Nahibaluan ko nga ginaapinan mo si David. Ginapakahuy-an mo lang ang imo kaugalingon kag ang imo iloy.
Samtang nagakabuhi si David, indi ka gid mangin hari. Karon, kuhaa siya kag dal-a diri sa akon, kay dapat siya mapatay.”
Nagpamangkot si Jonatan, “Ngaa bala dapat siya mapatay? Ano bala ang iya nahimo?”
Pero ginbangkaw siya sang iya amay para patyon. Gani nahibaluan niya nga desidido gid ang iya amay sa pagpatay kay David.
Naghalin si Jonatan sa lamisa sa puwerte nga kaakig, kag wala siya nagkaon sadto nga adlaw, tungod naglain gid ang iya buot sa makahuluya nga pagtratar sang iya amay kay David.
Pagkaaga, nagkadto si Jonatan sa uma sa pagpakigkita kay David. May upod siya nga bata nga lalaki.
Nagsiling siya sa bata, “Dalagan ka kag pangitaa ang mga pana nga akon ipana.” Gani sang nagadalagan ang bata nagpana si Jonatan sa unhan niya.
Wala gid sing inalung-ong ang bata kon ano ang kahulugan sadto. Si Jonatan lang gid kag si David ang nakahibalo.
Nagsiling si Jonatan, “Himuon ko ang bisan ano nga ipahimo mo sa akon.”
Dayon ginhatag ni Jonatan ang iya mga pana sa bata kag ginsilingan, “Dal-a ini pabalik sa banwa.”
Sang makalakat na ang bata, nagguwa si David sa bato nga iya ginapanaguan, kag nagluhod
Dayon nagsiling si Jonatan kay David, “Sige, maayo lang nga paglakat. Kag kabay pa nga buligan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi maguba ang aton ginsumpaan sa iya bilang mag-abyan hasta sa aton mga kaliwat.” Dayon naglakat si David, kag si Jonatan iya nagbalik sa banwa.
Gani nagsiling si David, “Buwas Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, kag dapat ako magkaon upod sa imo amay. Pero tuguti ako nga maglakat kag magpanago sa uma hasta sa gab-i sang ikatatlo nga adlaw.
Kon pangitaon ako sang imo amay sugiri siya nga naglisensya ako sa imo nga magpuli sa amon sa Betlehem para makaupod ako sa bilog ko nga pamilya sa ila nga paghalad, nga ginahimo nila kada tuig.
Kon magsiling siya nga wala sing kaso, ti wala ako sing kulbaan. Pero kon magpangakig siya, sigurado gid nga may tuyo siya nga patyon ako.
Nagapangabay ako nga himuon mo ini nga kaayo sa akon bilang pamatuod sang imo kasugtanan nga ginhimo sa akon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pero kon nakasala gid man ako, ikaw na mismo ang magpatay sa akon. Ngaa itugyan mo pa ako sa imo amay?”
Nagsabat si Jonatan, “Indi ina matabo! Kon sigurado ako nga ang akon amay may tuyo sa pagpatay sa imo ipahibalo ko gid ini sa imo.”
Karon, nagkadto si David kay Ahimelec nga pari sa Nob. Nagkurog sa kahadlok si Ahimelec sang makita niya si David. Nagpamangkot si Ahimelec, “Ngaa isa ka lang?”
Gani nagpalagyo si David kay Saul kag nagkadto kay Haring Akish sang Gat.
Nagsiling ang mga opisyal ni Akish sa iya, “Indi bala si David ini nga hari sang ila ila lugar? Indi bala siya ang ginapadunggan sang mga babayi samtang nagasaot sila kag nagakanta sang, ‘Pila lang ka libo ang napatay ni Saul, pero kay David ya tignapulo ka libo’?”
Ginhunahuna ni David ang ila ginhambal, kag hinadlukan gid siya kay Haring Akish sang Gat.
Gani nagpabuang-buang si David samtang didto siya sa Gat. Nagpanguris-kuris siya sa mga puwertahan sang banwa, kag ginapatulo niya ang iya laway sa iya bungot.
Gani nagsiling si Akish sa iya mga opisyal, “Tan-awa ninyo! Buang ina nga tawo! Ngaa nga gindala ninyo siya sa akon?
Damo na diri sang buang, ngaa gindala pa ninyo siya sa akon balay kag magbinuang sa akon atubangan?”
Nagsabat si David, “May misyon ako diri halin sa hari, kag ginsilingan niya ako nga indi gid ako magpanugid parte sa sini nga misyon. Kon parte sa akon mga tinawo, ginsilingan ko sila nga magkitaay lang kami sa isa ka lugar.
Karon, may pagkaon ka bala dira? Palihog hatagi ako sing lima ka bilog nga tinapay ukon bisan ano lang.”
Nagsabat ang pari, “Wala ako sang ordinaryo nga tinapay, pero may tinapay diri nga ginhalad. Ihatag ko ini kon ikaw kag ang imo mga tinawo wala maghulid sa babayi sa sini nga mga inadlaw sa sini nga mga inadlaw .”
Nagsabat si David, “Wala kami nagahulid sa babayi kon may misyon kami. Bisan ordinaryo lang nga misyon ang amon kadtuan kinahanglan nga mangin matinlo
Gani tungod nga wala sing ordinaryo nga tinapay, ginhatag sang pari sa iya ang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginkuha sa balaan nga lamisa
Natabuan nga ato didto ang suluguon ni Saul nga si Doeg nga Edomnon. Siya ang pangulo sang mga manugbantay sang kasapatan ni Saul. Didto siya kay may tulumanon siya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagpamangkot si David kay Ahimelec, “May espada ukon bangkaw ka bala diri? Wala ako makadala sang akon espada ukon sang bisan ano nga armas tungod kay insigida ang sugo sang hari.”
Nagsabat ang pari, “Ari diri ang espada ni Goliat nga Filistinhon nga imo ginpatay sa Kapatagan sang Elah. Naputos ini sang tela dira sa likod sang espesyal nga panapton
Naghalin si David sa Gat kag nagkadto sa kuweba sang Adulam. Sang mabatian ini sang iya mga utod kag sang iban pa nga mga miyembro sang iya pamilya, nagkadto sila sa iya sa pag-upod sa iya sa pag-upod sa iya .
Nagpamangkot si Ahimelec sa Ginoo Ginoo kon ano ang himuon ni David, kag ginhatagan pa niya si David sang pagkaon kag sang espada ni Goliat nga Filistinhon.”
Ginpatawag dayon ni Saul ang pari nga si Ahimelec nga anak ni Ahitub, kag ang iya bilog nga pamilya nga mga pari sa Nob. Kag nagkadto sila tanan kay Saul.
Pag-abot nila, nagsiling si Saul, “Pamati, Ahimelec!” Nagsabat siya, “Huo, Mahal nga Hari.”
Nagsiling si Saul sa iya, “Ngaa nga nagplano kamo ni David sing malain sa akon? Ginhatagan mo pa siya sang pagkaon kag espada, kag nagpamangkot ka pa sa Dios para sa iya. Karon nagakontra siya sa akon kag nagatinguha sa pagpatay sa akon.”
Nagsabat si Ahimelec sa hari, “Indi ina mahimo! Si David umagad mo, kag siya ang pinakamatutom mo nga alagad. Wala labot sina, siya pa ang kapitan sang imo mga guwardya kag ginatahod siya sa imo panimalay.
Huo, nagpamangkot ako sa Dios para sa iya, kag indi lang subong, kundi sang una pa. Pero nagapakitluoy ako sa imo nga indi mo ako pag-akusaron kag ang akon pamilya, kay wala gid ako kahibalo parte sini nga mga hitabo.”
Pero nagsiling ang hari, “Mapatay ka gid, Ahimelec, kag ang imo bilog nga pamilya.”
Dayon ginsugo ni Saul ang mga guwardya sa iya tupad, “Patya ang mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo kay nagaapin man sila kay David. Nahibaluan nila nga nagpalagyo si David pero wala gid sila magsugid sa akon.” Pero wala gid magtandog ang mga opisyal sang hari sa mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ginmanduan sang hari si Doeg nga Edomnon nga siya ang magpatay sa mga pari, kag ginpamatay sila ni Doeg. Sadto nga adlaw 85 ka pari
Ginpapatay man ni Saul ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Nob nga banwa sang mga pari: ang mga lalaki, mga babayi, mga kabataan kag mga lapsag, pati mga baka, mga donkey, mga karnero, kag mga kanding.
May mga tawo man nga nag-upod sa iya nga ara sa kalisod, ukon may utang, ukon diskontento sa ila kabuhi. Mga 400 ka tawo ang nag-upod kay David, kag siya ang ila nangin pangulo.
Pero nakapalagyo si Abiatar nga anak ni Ahimelec kag nag-upod kay David.
Ginsugiran niya si David nga ginpapatay ni Saul ang mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling dayon si David kay Abiatar, “Sang makita ko sadto si Doeg sang nagkadto ako kay Ahimelec, nahibaluan ko nga manugid gid siya kay Saul. Gani salabton ko ang pagkapatay sang imo bilog nga pamilya.
Diri ka lang sa akon, kay isa lang ang gusto nga magpatay sa imo kag sa akon. Indi ka magkahadlok; indi ka maano diri upod sa akon.”
Halin didto nagkadto si David sa Mizpa nga sakop sang Moab kag nagsiling sa hari sang Moab, “Tugutan mo bala ang akon ginikanan nga magtiner anay diri hasta nga mahibaluan ko kon ano ang himuon sang Dios para sa akon?”
Nagsugot ang hari, Nagsugot ang hari, gani ginbilin ni David ang iya ginikanan sa hari sang Moab samtang didto siya sa mabakod nga palanaguan.
Isa sina ka tion nagsiling si Propeta Gad kay David, “Indi ka na magtiner diri sa imo palanaguan. Magkadto ka sa Juda.” Gani naghalin si David kag nagkadto sa kagulangan sang Heret.
Karon nabalitaan ni Saul nga natultulan na si David kag ang iya mga tinawo. Nagapungko sadto si Saul sa idalom sang kahoy nga tamarisko, didto sa bukid sang Gibea. Nagauyat siya sang bangkaw, kag nagatindog sa iya palibot ang tanan niya nga opisyal.
Nagsiling si Saul sa ila, “Pamati kamo mga taga-Benjamin! Nagpromisa bala sa inyo si David nga hatagan niya kamo tanan sang mga uma kag mga talamnan sang ubas? Nagpromisa bala siya sa inyo nga himuon niya kamo tanan nga kumander sang mga soldado?
Amo bala ina nga tanan kamo nagplano sing malain sa akon? Wala gid sing may nagsugid sa akon nga ang akon anak naghimo sang kasugtanan kay David. Wala gid kamo nagakabalaka sa akon, kay wala sing may nagsugid sa akon nga gin-ganyat sang akon anak ang akon alagad nga si David sa pagpatay sa akon pareho sang iya ginatinguha karon.”
Isa sa mga nagatindog didto kaupod sang mga opisyal ni Saul amo si Doeg nga Edomnon. Nagsiling siya kay Saul, “Sang didto ako sa Nob, nakita ko si David nga nagkadto kay Ahimelec nga anak ni Ahitub.
Sang ginsugiran si David nga ginasalakay sang mga Filistinhon ang Keila kag ginapanguha nila ang mga trigo sa trigo sa linasan,
Nagsiling dayon si David, “O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, nabalitaan ko, nga imo alagad, nga nagplano si Saul sa pagkadto diri sa Keila sa paglaglag sini nga banwa tungod sa akon.
Magakadto bala diri si Saul suno sa akon nabatian? Itugyan bala ako sang mga pumuluyo sang Keila kay Saul? O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, sugiri ako nga imo alagad.” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Huo, makadto si Saul.”
Nagpamangkot liwat liwat si David, “Itugyan bala ako kag ang akon mga tinawo sang mga pumuluyo sang Keila kay Saul?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Huo, itugyan nila kamo.”
Gani naghalin sa Keila si David kag ang iya 600 ka tinawo, kag nagsaylo-saylo sila sang lugar. Sang nabalitaan ni Saul nga nagpalagyo si David halin sa Keila, wala na siya magkadto didto.
Nagpanago si David sa mga kuta sa kabukiran sang kamingawan sang Zif. Adlaw-adlaw ginapangita siya ni Saul, pero wala gid siya gintugyan sang Dios kay Saul.
Isa sina ka adlaw, Isa sina ka adlaw, samtang didto si David sa Horesh sa kamingawan sang Zif, nabalitaan niya nga nagapakadto didto si Saul sa pagpatay sa iya.
Nagkadto didto si Jonatan sa iya sa Horesh sa pagpabakod sa iya nga buligan siya sang Dios.
Nagsiling si Jonatan, “Indi ka magkahadlok kay ang akon amay indi makatandog sa imo. Nahibaluan mismo sang akon amay nga mangin hari ka sang Israel, kag mangin ikaduha lang ako sa imo.”
Naghimo dayon sila nga duha sang kasugtanan sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon nagpuli si Jonatan, pero si David ya nagpabilin sa Horesh.
Karon, may mga taga-Zif nga nagkadto kay Saul sa Gibea kag nagsiling, “Si David nagapanago sa amon didto sa mga kuta sa Horesh sa kabukiran sang Hakila, sa south sang Jeshimon.
nagpamangkot siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Salakayon ko bala ang mga Filistinhon?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Sige, salakaya sila kag luwasa ang Keila.”
Gani, Mahal nga Hari, kadto ka didto kon san-o ang gusto mo kay bahala na kami sa pagtugyan sa iya sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Saul, “Pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo pagkabalaka sa akon.
Sige, puli na kamo kag siguruha ninyo kon diin siya permi nagakadto kag kon sin-o ang nakakita sa iya didto, kay nahibaluan ko nga maayo gid siya magpadihot.
Hibalua ninyo ang tanan nga lugar nga iya ginapanaguan, kag balik kamo diri sa akon kon sigurado gid. Dayon maupod ako sa inyo; kag kon ara pa siya sa isa ka lugar pangitaon ko siya bisan latason ko pa ang bilog nga duta sang Juda.”
Karon, didto si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa kamingawan sang Maon sa Kapatagan sang Jordan,
Pag-abot ni Saul kag sang iya mga tinawo sa Zif, ginpangita nila si David. Sang mahibaluan ini ni David, nagpanago siya sa dako nga bato sa kamingawan sang Maon, kag didto siya nagtiner. Sang mabalitaan ini ni Saul, nagkadto siya sa kamingawan sang Maon sa pagpangita kay David.
Si Saul kag ang iya mga tinawo kag ang iya mga tinawo didto sa pihak nga kilid sang bukid, kag si David ya kag ang iya mga tinawo sa pihak man nga kilid sang bukid nga nagadali-dali sa pagpalagyo kay Saul. Sang malapit na lang maabtan ni Saul kag sang iya mga tinawo si David kag ang iya man mga tinawo,
may mensahero nga nagpalapit kay Saul kag nagsiling, “Dali, balik anay! Kay ginasalakay sang mga Filistinhon ang aton aton nasyon.”
Gani nag-untat si Saul sa paglagas kay David kag nagbalik siya sa pagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon. Tungod nga sa sina nga lugar nagsipak si David kag si Saul, ang ina nga lugar gintawag nga “Bato nga Ginsipakan.”
Halin didto, nagtaklad si David sa mga kuta sang En Gedi kag didto nagtiner.
Pero nagsiling ang mga tinawo ni David, “Nahadlok gani kami diri sa Juda, ano na gid ayhan kon magkadto pa sa Keila kag magpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon!”
Nagpamangkot liwat si David sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Magkadto ka sa Keila, kay padag-on ko ikaw kontra sa mga Filistinhon.”
Gani nagkadto si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Keila kag nagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon. Madamo nga Filistinhon ang ila ginpamatay, kag ginpanguha nila ang ila kasapatan. Naluwas nila ang mga taga-Keila.
(Sang nagpalagyo si Abiatar kag nagkadto kay David sa Keila, gindala niya ang espesyal nga panapton
May nakasugid kay Saul nga si David nagkadto sa Keila. Gani nagsiling si Saul, “Gintugyan siya sang Dios sa akon, kay daw sa ginpriso lang niya ang iya kaugalingon sa iya pagsulod sa banwa nga napalibutan sang pader.”
Ginpatipon dayon ni Saul ang tanan niya nga mga soldado sa pagkadto sa Keila para palibutan si David kag ang iya mga tinawo.
Sang mahibaluan ni David ang plano ni Saul, ginsilingan niya si Abiatar nga pari nga kuhaon ang espesyal nga panapton sang pari sang pari .
Sang pagbalik ni Saul halin sa pagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon, ginsugiran siya nga didto si David sa kamingawan sang En Gedi.
Nakita mo mismo subong nga adlaw kon paano ka gintugyan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon didto sa sulod sang kuweba. Ginsilingan ako sang iban ko nga mga tinawo nga patyon ka, pero wala ko ikaw pagpatya. Nagsiling ako sa ila nga indi ko pag-anhon ang akon agalon tungod kay ginpili siya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga maghari.
Amay, tan-awa ang parte sang imo bayo nga akon ginauyatan. Gin-utod ko ang punta sang imo bayo pero wala ko ikaw pagpatya. Nagapamatuod ini nga wala ako sing tuyo sa paghalit sa imo ukon sa pagrebelde sa imo. Wala ako nakasala sa imo pero ginatinguhaan mo ako nga patyon.
Kabay pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang magahukom sa aton nga duha, kag kabay pa nga balusan niya ikaw sa imo malain nga ginahimo sa akon. Pero ako indi gid mag-ano sa imo,
pareho sang hulubaton nga nagasiling, ‘Ang malain lang nga tawo ang nagahimo sang malain.’ Gani indi gid ako mag-ano sa imo.
Ikaw nga hari sang Israel nagahingabot gid sa akon. Ngaa, sin-o gid bala ako? Pareho man lang ako sa patay nga ido ukon bitik.
Kabay pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang magahukom sa aton kag magdesisyon kon sin-o ang may sala sa aton nga duha. Kabay pa nga talupangdon niya ako kag apinan kag luwason sa imo mga kamot.”
Pagkatapos hambal ni David, nagsiling si Saul, “Ikaw gid bala ina David, anak ko?” Kag naghibi siya sing tudo.
Nagsiling pa gid siya, “Mas matarong ka sang sa akon. Gintratar ko ikaw sing malain, pero ako gintratar mo sing maayo.
Ginpakita mo sa akon subong nga adlaw ang imo kaayo. Gintugyan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo, pero wala mo ako pagpatya.
Ang iban ya kon makita nila ang ila kaaway, wala nila ini ginapabay-an nga makapalagyo. Kabay pa nga balusan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kaayo nga ginpakita mo sa akon subong nga adlaw.
Gani nagpili siya sang 3,000 ka tawo halin sa bilog nga Israel kag naglakat sa pagpangita kay David kag sa iya mga tinawo malapit sa kabatuhan nga ginatineran sang talunon nga mga kanding.
Nahibaluan ko nga mangin hari ka gid, kag ang ginharian sang Israel mangin mabakod sa imo paggahom.
Karon, magsumpa ka sa akon sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi mo pagpamatyon ang akon mga kaliwat, para indi madula ang ngalan sang akon pamilya.”
Gani nagsumpa si David kay Saul. Dayon nagpuli si Saul, pero si David ya kag ang iya mga tinawo nagbalik sa ila palanaguan.
Nakaabot si Saul sa toril sang mga karnero sa higad sang dalan, nga sa diin may kuweba didto. Nagsulod si Saul sa kuweba sa pagpamus-on. Didto gali sa sulod nga parte sang kuweba nagapanago si David kag ang iya mga tinawo.
Nagsiling ang mga tinawo ni David sa iya, “Amo na gid ini ang tion nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga igatugyan niya sa imo ang imo kaaway kag bahala ka kon ano ang imo gusto nga himuon sa iya.” Dayon hinay-hinay nga nagpalapit si David kay Saul kag gin-utod niya ang punta sang bayo ni Saul nga wala niya mabatyagi.
Pero pagkatapos sadto ginkonsensya si David sa iya nga pag-utod sang punta sang bayo ni Saul.
Nagsiling siya sa iya mga tinawo, “Kabay pa nga indi magtugot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga maghimo ako sing malain sa akon agalon, ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga maghari.”
Sa sining ginhambal ni David ginsabdong niya ang iya mga tinawo, kag wala niya sila pagtuguti nga salakayon si Saul. Naghalin si Saul sa kuweba kag naglakat.
Dayon nagguwa si David sa kuweba kag gintawag si Saul, “Mahal nga Hari!” Sang magbalikid si Saul, nagluhod si David bilang pagtahod sa iya.
Nagsiling dayon si David kay Saul, “Ngaa nagapati ka sa mga tawo nga nagasiling sa imo nga nagatinguha ako sa pagpatay sa imo?
Pagkatapos sadto, nagsaylo si David sa kamingawan sang Maon.
Siling ni Nabal sa mga tinawo ni David, “Sin-o bala ining si David nga anak ni Jesse? Subong nga mga inadlaw madamo nga suluguon ang nagapalagyo sa ila amo.
Ngaa ihatag ko sa inyo ang akon tinapay kag tubig kag ang karne sang sapat nga akon ginpaihaw para sa mga manuggunting sang akon mga karnero? Wala gani ako kahibalo kon sa diin kamo naghalin.”
Nagbalik ang mga tinawo ni David kag ginsugid nila sa iya ang ginsiling ni Nabal.
Dayon nagsiling si David sa iya mga tinawo, “Itaklos ang inyo mga espada!” Gani gintaklos nila ang ila mga espada, kag amo man ang ginhimo ni David. Mga 400 ka tawo ang nag-upod kay David. Nagpabilin ang 200 sa pagbantay sang mga kargaminto.
Karon, ang isa sa mga suluguon ni Nabal nagsiling kay Abigail nga asawa ni Nabal, “Nagpadala diri si David sang mga mensahero halin sa kamingawan, kag nagpangamusta pa sila kay Nabal nga amon amo, pero gin-insulto lang niya sila.
Maayo gid ato nga mga tawo sa amon; wala nila kami pag-anha. Kag sa bilog nga tiyempo nga didto kami sa uma malapit sa ila, wala gid sang may nadula sa amon.
Ginproteksyunan nila kami adlaw-gab-i sang nagabantay kami sang mga karnero.
Karon maghunahuna ka kon ano ang imo mahimo, tungod kay magaabot ang katalagman sa imo bana kag sa iya bilog nga panimalay. Puwerte sa iya kalaot, gani wala gid sing may mangahas nga mag-estorya sa iya.”
Wala na mag-usik sang tiyempo si Abigail. Nagpakuha siya sang 200 ka bilog nga tinapay, duha ka suludlan nga panit nga puno sang bino, lima ka gin-ihaw nga karnero, mga isa ka sako nga sinanlag nga uyas, 100 ka hakop sang pasas, kag 200 ka hakop sang binulad nga higos.
kag ginsilingan ang iya mga suluguon, “Mag-una kamo; masunod lang ako sa inyo.” Pero wala niya ginsugiran ang iya bana nga si Nabal.
Didto sa Maon may isa ka tawo nga manggaranon gid, nga may duta
Samtang nagasakay si Abigail sa iya donkey kag nagapaliko sa kilid sang bukid, nakita niya nga nagapadulong si David kag ang iya mga tinawo pakadto sa iya.
Wala pa lang dugay nga nagsiling si David, “Wala sing pulos ang pagbantay ko sang mga pagkabutang ni Nabal sa kamingawan para wala sing may madula. Ang kaayo nga ginpakita ko sa iya ginbalusan niya sang kalain.
Kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios sing puwerte gid kon indi ko maubos pamatay hasta sa aga ang tanan nga lalaki nga sakop niya.”
Kabay nga indi mo pagsapakon ang malain nga si Nabal. Bagay gid sa iya ang iya ngalan nga Nabal, nga ang buot silingon ‘buang-buang.’ Sir, ako ya wala gid makakita sa mga tawo nga imo ginpadala.
“Karon, ginpunggan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagbalos kag sa pagpamatay. Ginasumpa ko sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo kag sa imo nga kabay pa nga ang imo mga kaaway kag ang tanan nga gusto maghalit sa imo mangin pareho ang ila dangatan kay Nabal.
Kon mahimo, sir, batuna ini nga mga regalo nga akon gindala sa imo, kag ihatag sa imo mga tinawo.
Palihog patawara ako sa akon mga kakulangan. Sigurado gid nga paharion ka sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang imo mga kaliwat, tungod nga nagapakig-away ka para sa iya. Kabay pa nga wala sing malain nga matabo sa imo samtang nagakabuhi ka.
Bisan may maglagas sa pagpatay sa imo, tipigan ka gihapon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios pareho sa tawo nga nagatipig sang malahalon nga butang. Pero ang imo mga kaaway ipanglabyog pareho sang paglabyog sang isa ka tawo sang bato.
Ang iya ngalan amo si Nabal nga halin sa kaliwat ni Caleb, kag ang iya asawa amo si Abigail. Maalam kag guwapa si Abigail, pero si Nabal iya dali mangakig kag malain sing batasan.
Kon matuman na ang tanan nga maayo nga mga butang nga ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo, kag mangin hari ka na sang Israel,
indi ka pagkonsensyahon tungod nga wala ka nagbalos kag nagpamatay nga wala sing kabangdanan. Kag kon pakamaayuhon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo palihog indi ako pagkalimti.”
Nagsiling si David kay Abigail, “Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga nagpadala sa imo subong nga adlaw sa pagpakigkita sa akon.
Salamat sa Dios sa imo maayo nga panghunahuna kag sa pagpugong sa akon sa pagbalos kag pagpamatay sa sini nga adlaw.
Kon wala ka nagdali-dali sa pagpakigkita sa akon, wala kuntani sing may nabilin nga buhi sa mga tinawo ni Nabal pagkaaga. Kay amo ina ang akon ginsumpa sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga nagpugong sa akon sa paghimo sang malain sa imo.”
Ginbaton ni David ang mga regalo ni Abigail kag nagsiling, “Magpuli ka kag indi na magpalibog, kay tumanon ko ang imo pangabay.”
Sang pag-abot ni Abigail sa ila balay, nagapapunsyon si Nabal nga daw sa hari. Malipayon gid siya kag puwerte kahubog. Gani wala siya pagsugiri ni Abigail hasta mag-aga.
Sang naumpawan na siya sang aga, ginsugiran siya ni Abigail sa natabo. Gin-atake siya sa tagipusuon kag indi na siya makahulag.
Pagkaligad sang napulo ka adlaw, ginpagrabe pa gid siya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag napatay siya.
Dayon nagpadala si David sang mga mensahero sa pagpangabay kay Abigail nga pangasaw-on niya siya.
Karon, sang didto si David sa kamingawan, nabalitaan niya nga nagapagunting si Nabal sang iya mga karnero.
Pag-abot sang mga mensahero ni David sa Carmel, nagsiling sila kay Abigail, “Ginpakadto kami ni David sa imo sa pagdala sa imo sa iya para mangin asawa niya.”
Nagluhod si Abigail bilang pagtahod sa ila bilang pagtahod sa ila kag nagsiling, “Huo, sugot ako. Handa ako sa pag-alagad sa iya bisan pa sa iya mga ulipon.”
Nagdali-dali dayon si Abigail sa pagsakay sa donkey kag nag-upod sa mga mensahero ni David. Gindala niya ang lima niya ka suluguon nga babayi. Kag nangin asawa siya ni David.
Ginpangasawa man ni David si Ahinoam nga taga-Jezreel, kag sila nga duha iya asawa.
Ang iya asawa anay nga si Mical ginpaasawa ni Saul sa kay Paltiel nga taga-Galim, nga anak ni Laish.
Nakabalita ako nga nagapagunting ka sang imo mga karnero. Sang kaupod namon ang imo mga manugbantay sang karnero sa Carmel, wala namon sila pagpintasi kag wala sing may nadula sa ila.
Pamangkuta bala sila, kag sugiran ka nila. Karon, nagapangabay ako nga pakitaan mo sang kaayo ang akon mga tinawo, kay piesta man subong. Kabiga ako nga imo anak kag ang akon mga suluguon nga imo mga suluguon; hatagi kami sang bisan ano nga gusto mo ihatag sa amon.”
Gani pag-abot sang mga tinawo ni David kay Nabal, ginhambal nila ang mensahi ni David. Dayon naghulat sila.
Isa sina ka adlaw, Isa sina ka adlaw, may mga taga-Zif nga nagkadto kay Saul sa Gibea kag nagsiling, “Si David nagapanago sa kabukiran sang Hakila, nga nagaatubang sa Jeshimon.”
Ginasiguro ko gid sa imo, sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang magpatay sa iya, ukon mapatay siya sa natural nga kamatayon ukon sa inaway.
Pero indi magtugot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ako ang magpatay sa iya pinili nga hari. Kuhaon ta lang ang bangkaw kag ang suludlan sang tubig nga ara sa iya ulohan, kag maglakat.”
Gani ginkuha ni David ang bangkaw kag ang suludlan sang tubig nga ara sa ulohan ni Saul, kag naglakat sila. Wala gid sing may nakakita ukon nakahibalo sa natabo; wala gid sing may nakabugtaw sa ila tungod kay ginpahamuok sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ila pagtulog.
Dayon nagkadto sila ni David sa pihak sang kapatagan sang kapatagan kag nagtindog sa ibabaw sang bukid nga malayo-layo diutay sa kampo nila ni Saul.
Nagsinggit si David sa ila ni Abner, nga kumander sang mga soldado ni Saul, “Abner, mabatian mo bala ako?” Nagsabat si Abner, “Sin-o ka? Ano ang kinahanglan mo sa hari?”
Nagsabat si David, “Indi bala nga ikaw ang labing maisog nga tawo sa Israel? Ngaa wala mo pagbantayi ang hari nga imo agalon? May nagkadto dira sa pagpatay sa iya!
Indi maayo ining imo pagpabaya sa hari. Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga dapat ka mapatay kag ang imo mga tinawo, kay wala ninyo pagbantayi ang inyo agalon, ang pinili nga hari sang Ginoo Ginoo . Tan-awa kon makita mo pa ang bangkaw sang hari kag ang suludlan sang tubig nga ara sadto sa iya ulohan.”
Nakilala ni Saul ang tingog ni David, gani nagsiling siya, “David, anak, ikaw bala ina?” Nagsabat si David, “Huo ako ini, Mahal nga Hari.
Ngaa bala nga ginalagas mo ako nga imo alagad? Ano bala ang nahimo ko nga malain?
Mahal nga Hari, pamatii ang akon isiling. Kon ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagtulod sa imo sa pagpatay sa akon, kabay pa nga kaluoyan niya ako paagi sa kaluoyan niya ako paagi sa pagbaton sang akon halad. Pero kon ini iya lang sang tawo, kabay pa nga pakamalauton sila sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kay ginpalayas nila ako sa duta nga ginapanag-iyahan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginsilingan nga mag-alagad ako sa iban nga mga dios.
Gani nagkadto si Saul sa kamingawan sang Zif sa pagpangita kay David. Gin-upod niya ang iya 3,000 ka tinawo nga iya ginpili sa Israel.
Indi pag-itugot nga mapatay ako sa iban nga duta, nga malayo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ngaa ikaw nga hari sang Israel nagahingabot gid sa akon nga pareho man lang ako sa bitik? Ngaa ginalagas mo ako pareho sa pispis sa bukid?”
Nagsiling si Saul, “Nakasala ako. Magbalik ka sa akon David, anak ko, kag indi ko na ikaw pag-anhon liwat, kay wala mo ako pagpatya subong. Daw buang ako sa akon ginhimo, kag sala gid ako.”
Nagsabat si David, “Ari ang imo bangkaw, ipakuha ini diri sa isa mo ka tinawo.
Gintugyan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon subong nga adlaw, pero wala ko ikaw pagpatya kay ikaw ang pinili nga hari sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sa sining ginhimo ko pakamaayuhon ako sang Ginoo , kay Sa sining ginhimo ko pakamaayuhon ako sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay ginabalusan niya ang kada tawo nga matarong kag matutom.
Subong nga ginhatagan ko sang bili ang imo kabuhi karon nga adlaw, kabay pa nga hatagan man sang bili sang Ginoo Ginoo ang akon kabuhi kag luwason niya ako sa tanan nga kalisod.”
Dayon nagsiling si Saul kay David, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Dios, anak ko. Madamo pa nga mga butang ang imo pagahimuon, kag magamadinalag-on ka gid.” Dayon naglakat si David, kag si Saul ya nagpuli.
Nagkampo sila sa higad sang dalan sa bukid sang Hakila, nga nagaatubang sa Jeshimon. Si David ya nagtiner sa kamingawan. Sang mabalitaan ni David nga ginsunod siya didto ni Saul,
nagpadala siya sang mga espiya, kag nahibaluan niya nga nag-abot gid man si Saul.
Dayon nagkadto si David sa lugar nga ginkampuhan ni Saul. Nakita niya nga nagakatulog si Saul kag si Abner nga anak ni Ner, nga kumander sang mga soldado. Ginapalibutan si Saul sang mga soldado.
Nagpamangkot si David kay Ahimelec nga Hithanon kag kay Abishai nga anak ni Zeruya kag utod ni Joab, “Sin-o bala sa inyo ang maupod sa akon sa pagsulod sa kampo ni Saul?” Nagsabat si Abishai, “Ako ang maupod.”
Gani sang sina mismo nga gab-i, naglakat si David kag si Abishai sa kampo ni Saul, kag nakita nila si Saul nga nagakatulog, nga ang iya bangkaw natibsok sa duta malapit sa iya ulohan. Si Abner kag ang mga soldado nagakatulog man sa iya palibot.
Nagsiling si Abishai kay David, “Gintugyan na sang Dios sa imo ang imo kaaway subong nga adlaw. Karon tuguti ako nga bun-on ko siya sang bangkaw. Patapikon ko siya sa duta sa isa lang ka pagbuno.”
Pero nagsiling si David kay Abishai, “Indi siya pagpatya! Kay silutan gid sang Ginoo Ginoo ang magpatay sa iya pinili nga hari.
Nagsiling si David sa iya kaugalingon, “Maabot ang tion nga patyon gid ako ni Saul. Maayo pa nga magpalagyo na lang ako sa duta sang mga Filistinhon para mauntat na ang pagpangita ni Saul sa akon sa Israel, kag luwas na ako sa iya.”
Kon magpamangkot gani si Akish kon diin sila nagsalakay sa sina nga adlaw, nagasabat si David nga nagsalakay sila sa Negev sang Juda ukon sa parte sang parte sang Negev nga ginaestaran nga ginaestaran sang mga Jerameelinhon ukon sa parte sang parte sang Negev nga ginaestaran nga ginaestaran sang mga Kenhanon.
Ginaubos nila ni David pamatay ang tanan nga lalaki kag babayi para wala sing isa nga makakadto sa Gat sa pagpanugid kon ano gid ang iya ginhimo. Amo ini permi ang ginahimo ni David samtang didto siya nagaestar sa teritoryo sang mga Filistinhon.
Nagsalig gid si Akish kay David kag nagsiling sa iya kaugalingon, “Ginadumtan na subong si David sang iya mga kasimanwa nga mga Israelinhon, gani mangin alagad ko siya hasta san-o.”
Gani nagkadto si David kag ang iya 600 ka tinawo kay Haring Akish sang Gat, nga anak ni Maoc.
Didto sila nag-estar sa Gat upod kay Akish. Gindala nila didto ang ila mga pamilya. Gindala man ni David ang iya duha ka asawa nga si Ahinoam nga taga-Jezreel kag si Abigail nga taga-Carmel nga asawa anay ni Nabal.
Sang mabalitaan ni Saul nga nagpalagyo si David sa Gat, wala na niya siya pagpangitaa.
Karon, nagsiling si David kay Akish, “Kon maayo ka sa akon, hatagi kami sang isa ka baryo nga amon pagaestaran. Indi kinahanglan nga mag-estar kami diri sa banwa nga imo ginaestaran bilang hari.”
Gani sadto mismo nga adlaw ginhatag ni Akish sa iya ang Ziklag. Kag halin sadto hasta subong, ang Ziklag ginapanag-iyahan sang mga hari sang Juda.
Nag-estar si David sa teritoryo sang mga Filistinhon sa sulod sang isa ka tuig kag apat ka bulan.
Sadto nga mga panahon ginasalakay ni David kag sang iya mga tinawo ang mga Geshurnon, Girzanon, kag mga Amaleknon. Halin sang una ini nga mga tawo nagaestar sa mga lugar nga pakadto sa Shur kag Egypt.
Kon magsalakay gani sila ni David, ginapamatay nila ang tanan nga lalaki kag babayi, kag ginapanguha nila ang mga karnero, mga baka, mga donkey, mga camel kag pati mga bayo. Dayon nagabalik sila kay Akish.
Sadto nga mga inadlaw gintipon sang mga Filistinhon ang ila mga soldado sa pagpakig-away sa mga Israelinhon. Nagsiling si Akish kay David, “Ikaw kag ang imo mga tinawo kinahanglan nga mag-upod sa amon sa pagpakig-away.”
Nagsumpa si Saul sa iya, “Sa ngalan sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , indi ka gid pagsilutan sa paghimo sini.”
Sang ulihi nagsiling ang babayi, “Sin-o nga kalag ang gusto mo nga tawgon ko?” Nagsiling si Saul, “Tawga si Samuel.”
Gani gintawag sang babayi si Samuel, Gani gintawag sang babayi si Samuel, kag sang makita sang babayi si Samuel nagsinggit siya sing tudo gid, kag nagsiling kay Saul, “Ngaa gintunto mo ako? Ikaw gali si Saul!”
Nagsiling si Saul sa iya, “Indi ka magkahadlok. Ano bala ang nakita mo?” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Nakita ko ang isa ka gamhanan nga kalag
Nagpamangkot si Saul, “Ano bala ang iya hitsura?” Nagsabat siya, “Isa ka tigulang nga lalaki nga may pangtabon nga panapton.” Dayon nahibaluan ni Saul nga si Samuel ato, kag nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod sa iya.
Nagsiling si Samuel kay Saul, “Ngaa gindisturbo mo ako paagi sa pagtawag sa akon?” Nagsiling si Saul, “May dako ako nga problema. Nagapakig-away sa akon ang mga Filistinhon kag gintalikdan na ako sang Dios. Wala na niya ako ginasabat, bisan paagi sa mga propeta ukon mga damgo. Gani ginpatawag ko ikaw sa pagsugid sa akon kon ano ang akon himuon.”
Nagsiling si Samuel, “Ngaa mamangkot ka pa sa akon? Indi bala nga gintalikdan ka na sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nangin kaaway mo siya?
Gintuman sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginsiling paagi sa akon. Ginkuha niya ang ginharian sang Israel sang Israel sa imo kag ginhatag sa imo kapareho nga Israelinhon nga si David.
Ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo subong tungod wala mo pagtumana ang iya sugo nga ipaagom mo ang iya kaakig sa mga Amaleknon.
Buwas itugyan niya ikaw kag ang mga Israelinhon sa mga Filistinhon, kag mangin kaupod ko ikaw kag ang imo mga anak nga lalaki sa lugar sang mga patay sa lugar sang mga patay .”
Nagsiling si David, “Huo, makita mo dayon kon ano ang mahimo ko, nga imo alagad.” Nagsabat si Akish, “Maayo gid! Himuon ko ikaw nga akon permanente nga badigard.”
Natumba dayon si Saul kag naghaplak sa duta. Puwerte ang iya kahadlok sa ginsiling ni Samuel. Nagpalangluya siya kay wala siya sing may ginkaon sa bilog nga adlaw kag gab-i.
Nagpalapit ang babayi kay Saul. Kag sang makita niya nga puwerte ang kahadlok ni Saul, nagsiling siya, “Mahal nga Hari, gintuman ko ang imo ginsugo bisan nahibaluan ko nga delikado ang akon kabuhi.
Karon, palihog pamatii ako nga imo suluguon. Hatagan ko ikaw sang pagkaon para may kusog ikaw sa imo paglakat.”
Pero nagbalibad si Saul. Siling niya, “Indi ako magkaon.” Ang iya mga tinawo nagbulig sa babayi sa pagpilit sa iya nga magkaon, gani nagsugot siya. Nagbangon siya kag nagpungko sa hiligdaan.
Gin-ihaw gilayon sang babayi ang iya ginpatambok nga bataon nga baka. Dayon nagkuha siya sang harina kag ginmasa niya, kag nagluto siya sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok.
Pagkatapos ginserbi niya ato kay Saul kag sa iya mga tinawo, kag nagkaon sila. Dayon naglakat sila sang sina mismo nga gab-i.
Patay na sadto si Samuel. Sang napatay siya nagpangasubo ang tanan nga taga-Israel sa iya, kag ginlubong nila siya sa iya banwa sa Rama. Kag ginpahalin ni Saul sa Israel ang mga espiritista pati na ang mga nagapakig-estorya sa kalag sang patay.
Karon, nagkampo ang mga Filistinhon sa Shunem, kag nagkampo man si Saul kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Gilboa.
Sang makita ni Saul ang mga soldado sang mga Filistinhon, hinadlukan gid siya.
Gani nagpamangkot siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , pero wala siya pagsabta sang Ginoo Ginoo bisan paagi sa mga damgo, ukon sa Urim
Nagsiling dayon si Saul sa iya mga alagad, “Pangitai ninyo ako sang babayi nga espiritista nga akon pamangkutan.” Nagsabat ang iya mga alagad, “May ara sa Endor.”
Gani nagpakuno-kuno si Saul paagi sa pagsuksok sang ordinaryo nga bayo, kag pagkagab-i nagkadto siya sa babayi upod ang iya duha ka tinawo. Pag-abot nila, nagsiling si Saul sa babayi, “Gusto ko nga magpakighambal sa kalag sang isa ka tawo. Puwede mo bala tawgon ang iya kalag?”
Pero nagsiling ang babayi sa iya, “Ano, gusto mo nga mapatay ako? Nahibaluan mo man siguro kon ano ang ginhimo ni Saul. Ginpahalin niya sa Israel ang mga espiritista pati na ang mga nagapakig-estorya sa kalag sang patay. Gani indi na pag-ibutang sa peligro ang akon kabuhi.”
Karon gintipon sang mga Filistinhon ang tanan nila nga soldado sa Afek, kag ang mga Israelinhon ya nagkampo sa may tuburan sang Jezreel.
Gani aga ka pa magbangon buwas kag magpuli upod sang imo mga tinawo samtang nagaamat-amat sanag.”
Gani aga pa nagbangon si David kag ang iya mga tinawo, kag nagbalik sila sa duta sang mga Filistinhon, kag ang mga Filistinhon iya nagkadto sa Jezreel.
Samtang nagamartsa ang mga pangulo sang mga Filistinhon upod sa ila mga soldado nga nagrupo sa ginatos kag linibo, nagasunod sa ila si David kag ang iya mga tinawo upod kay Haring Haring Akish.
Pero nagpamangkot ang mga kumander sang mga Filistinhon kay Akish, kay Akish, “Ano bala ang ginahimo sining mga Hebreo diri?” Nagsabat si Akish, “Ina nga tawo amo si David nga opisyal ni Haring Saul sang Israel. Sobra na siya isa ka tuig nga kaupod ko, kag umpisa sang maghalin siya kay Saul hasta subong wala ako sing may nakita nga malain sa iya.”
Pero nangakig ang mga kumander sang mga Filistinhon. Siling nila, “Pabalika ina nga tawo sa lugar nga imo ginhatag sa iya. Indi siya dapat mag-upod sa aton sa pagpakig-away. Kay basi bala kontrahon kag pamatyon niya kita kon mag-inaway na para makuha ang kaakig sang iya agalon sa iya.
Indi bala nga siya ang ginpadunggan sang mga babayi sa Israel samtang nagasaot sila kag nagakanta sang, ‘Pila lang ka libo ang napatay ni Saul, pero kay David ya tignapulo ka libo’?”
Gani gintawag ni Akish si David kag ginsilingan, “Nagasugid ako sing matuod sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga masaligan ka gid, kag gusto ko gid kuntani nga mag-upod ka sa akon sa pagpakig-away, tungod halin sang adlaw nga nag-upod ka sa akon hasta subong wala gid ako sing may nakita nga malain sa imo. Pero wala sing salig sa imo ang iban nga mga pangulo.
Gani magpuli ka na lang, kag indi ka maghimo sang bisan ano nga indi nila nagustuhan. Sige, maayo lang nga paglakat.”
Pero nagpamangkot si David, “Ano bala ang sala nga nahimo ko halin sang pag-upod ko sa imo hasta subong, Mahal nga Hari? Ngaa indi ako makaupod sa pagpakig-away kontra sa imo mga kaaway?”
Nagsabat si Akish, “Nahibaluan ko nga maayo ka gid pareho sa anghel sang Dios. Pero ang akon mga kumander indi gusto nga paupdon ka sa inaway.
Sang ikatlo nga adlaw, nakaabot si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Ziklag. Nasapwan nila nga ginsalakay sang mga Amaleknon ang Negev, lakip na ang Ziklag. Ginsunog nila ang Ziklag
ang 200 niya ka tinawo tungod nga kapoy na gid sila sa pagtabok pa sa ililigan sang tubig. Pero nagpadayon sa paglagas si David kag ang 400 niya ka tinawo.
Karon, may nakita ang mga tinawo ni David nga isa ka Egyptohanon sa uma, kag gindala nila siya kay David. Ginhatagan nila siya sang tubig kag tinapay,
kag isa ka hakop sang binulad nga higos kag duha ka hakop sang pasas, tungod kay wala gid siya makakaon ukon makainom sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw. Pagkatapos niya kaon, nagbaskog siya.
Ginpamangkot siya ni David, “Sin-o ang imo amo? Kag taga-diin ka?” Nagsabat siya, “Isa ako ka Egyptohanon kag ulipon ako sang isa ka Amaleknon. Ginpabay-an ako sang akon amo tatlo ka adlaw na ang nagligad, tungod kay nagmasakit ako.
Ginsalakay namon ang parte sang parte sang Negev nga ginaestaran nga ginaestaran sang mga Keretnon, sa teritoryo sang Juda, kag pati man pati man ang parte sang parte sang Negev nga ginaestaran nga ginaestaran sang mga kaliwat ni Caleb, kag ginsunog namon ang Ziklag.”
Nagpamangkot si David sa iya, “Maupdan mo bala kami kon diin nagkampo ining mga nagpangsalakay?” Nagsabat siya, “Magsumpa ka anay sa akon sa presensya sang Dios nga indi mo ako pagpatyon ukon itugyan sa akon amo, kag dayon updan ko kamo sa ila.”
Gani nagsumpa si David, Gani nagsumpa si David, kag gin-updan dayon sila sang Egyptohanon sa ginkampuhan sang mga nagpangsalakay. Kag didto nakita nila ang mga Amaleknon nga nagalinapta nga nagakinaon, nagaininom kag nagakinalipay, tungod nga madamo ang ila naagaw sa mga Filistinhon kag sa duta sang Juda.
Ginsalakay sila ni David kag sang iya mga tinawo, kag nag-inaway sila sa bilog nga gab-i hasta sang sunod nga gab-i. Wala sing may nakapalagyo sa mga Amaleknon luwas lang sa 400 ka pamatan-on nga nagsakay sa mga camel kag nagpalagyo.
Nabawi ni David ang tanan nga ginpanguha sang mga Amaleknon pati na ang duha niya ka asawa.
Wala gid sing may nadula, bata ukon tigulang, lalaki ukon babayi, ukon bisan ano nga ginpanguha sang mga Amaleknon. Nabawi ini tanan ni David.
kag ginpangbihag ang mga babayi kag mga kabataan sa sini nga banwa. Wala nila sila pagpatya kundi ginbihag lang nila.
Ginkuha niya ang tanan nga karnero kag baka. Kag samtang ginatabog sang mga tinawo ni David ang tanan nga kasapatan sa pag-una sa ila, nagasiling sila, “Mga naagaw ini ni David.”
Sang makabalik na sila ni David sa Besor nga ililigan sang tubig, ginsugata sila sang 200 niya ka tinawo nga nagpabilin didto tungod nga ginkapuyan sila sa pag-upod. Nagpalapit kanday David sa ila kag gintamyaw niya sila.
Pero ang mga malain kag wala sing pulos nga mga tinawo ni David nagsiling, “Indi ta sila pagpartihan sang mga naagaw ta sa mga Amaleknon, tungod kay wala sila nag-upod sa aton. Ibalik lang sa ila ang ila mga asawa kag mga kabataan, kag palakta sila.”
Nagsabat si David, “Mga kauturan, indi kamo magdinalok sa ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton. Ginprotektaran niya kita kag ginpadaog sa mga nagsalakay sa aton.
Wala gid sing may magsugot sa ginahambal ninyo nga ina. Dapat partihan ang tanan! Ang parte sang mga nagpabilin sa pagbantay sang aton mga gamit dapat pareho man sa mga nagkadto sa inaway.”
Ginhimo ini ni David nga pagsulundan para sa mga Israelinhon halin sadto hasta subong.
Sang pag-abot nila ni David sa Ziklag, ginpadala niya ang iban nila nga naagaw sa mga manugdumala sang Juda nga iya mga abyan, kaupod ang ini nga mensahi: “Ari ang regalo ko sa inyo halin sa mga naagaw namon sa mga kaaway sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Ang ginpadal-an niya amo ang mga manugdumala sang masunod nga mga banwa: Betel, Ramot Negev, Jatir,
Aroer, Sifmot, Eshtemoa,
Racal, sa mga banwa sang mga Jerameelinhon kag mga Kenhanon,
Nakita ni David kag sang iya mga tinawo nga sunog na ang ila lugar, kag ang ila mga asawa kag mga kabataan wala na.
sa Horma, Bor Ashan, Atac,
Hebron, kag sa iban pa nga mga lugar nga nakadtuan ni David kag sang iya mga tinawo.
Gani naghibi sila sing tudo gid hasta nagpalangluya sila.
Ginbihag man ang duha ka asawa ni David nga si Ahinoam nga taga-Jezreel kag si Abigail nga asawa anay ni Nabal nga taga-Carmel.
Nagdako na gid ang problema ni David tungod nga naglain ang buot sang iya mga tinawo sa pagkabihag sang ila mga kabataan, kag nagplano sila sa pagbato sa iya. Pero ginpabaskog si David sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios.
Dayon nagsiling si David kay Abiatar nga pari, nga anak ni Ahimelec, “Dal-a diri ang espesyal nga panapton
Nagpamangkot dayon si David sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Lagson bala namon ang nagsalakay sa amon? Mapierdi bala namon sila?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Huo, lagsa ninyo sila kay mapierdi gid ninyo sila, kag maluwas ninyo ang mga ginpangbihag.”
Gani naglakat si David kag ang iya 600 ka tinawo hasta nga nakaabot sila sa Besor nga ililigan sang tubig. Nagpabilin didto
Karon, nagpakig-away ang mga Filistinhon sa mga Israelinhon sa Bukid sang Gilboa. Madamo ang napatay sa mga Israelinhon, sa mga Israelinhon, kag ang iban sa ila nagpalalagyo.
Ginbutang nila ang mga armas ni Saul sa templo sang ila diosa nga si Ashtoret kag ginlansang ang iya bangkay sa pader sang banwa sang Bet Shan.
Nabalitaan sang mga taga-Jabesh Gilead ang ginhimo sang mga Filistinhon kay Saul.
Gani naglakat ang tanan nila nga maisog nga mga tawo sa bilog nga gab-i hasta nga nakaabot sila sa Bet Shan. Ginkuha nila ang bangkay ni Saul kag sang iya mga anak sa pader sang Bet Shan, kag gindala nila ini sa Jabesh kag ginsunog didto.
Dayon ginkuha nila ang mga tul-an kag ginlubong sa idalom sang kahoy nga tamarisko didto sa Jabesh, kag nagpuasa sila sing pito ka adlaw.
Ginlagas gid sang mga Filistinhon si Saul kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki, kag ginpatay nila ang iya mga anak nga sila ni Jonatan, Abinadab, kag Malkishua.
Puwerte gid ang inaway nila ni Saul kag sang mga Filistinhon. Naigo si Saul sang pana kag grabe gid ang iya pilas.
Nagsiling si Saul sa manugdala sang iya armas, “Gabuta ang imo espada kag patya ako, kay kon indi, sila nga mga wala nagatuo sa Dios
Sang makita sang manugdala sang iya armas nga patay na siya, ginbuno man niya ang iya kaugalingon sang iya mismo espada, kag napatay siya upod kay Saul.
Gani sadto nga adlaw napatay si Saul, ang iya tatlo ka anak nga lalaki, ang manugdala sang iya armas, kag ang tanan niya nga tinawo.
Sadto nga tion may mga Israelinhon nga nagaestar sa pihak sang kapatagan sang Jezreel sang Jezreel kag sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Sang makita nila nga nagpalagyo ang mga soldado sang Israel kag napatay si Saul kag ang iya mga anak, ginbayaan nila ang ila mga banwa kag nagpalagyo man sila. Gani ginsulod sang mga Filistinhon ini nga mga banwa kag gin-estaran.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, pagkatapos sang inaway, pagkatapos sang inaway, nagkadto ang mga Filistinhon sa Bukid sang Gilboa sa pagkuha sang mga kagamitan sang mga napatay. Nakita nila didto ang bangkay ni Saul kag sang iya tatlo ka anak.
Gin-utod nila ang ulo ni Saul kag ginkuha ang iya mga armas. Dayon nagpadala sila sang mga mensahero sa bilog nga duta sang mga Filistinhon sa pagbalita didto sa templo sang ila mga dios-dios kag sa ila mga kasimanwa nga napatay na si Saul nga napatay na si Saul .
Nagbalik sila ni David sa Ziklag pagkatapos nga napierdi nila ang mga Amaleknon. Patay na sadto si Saul. Nagtiner sila sa Ziklag sang duha ka adlaw.
Gani ginpalapitan ko siya kag ginpatay tungod nahibaluan ko nga indi na siya mabuhi sa iya grabe nga pilas. Dayon ginkuha ko ang korona sa iya ulo kag ang pulseras sa iya butkon, kag gindala diri sa imo, sir.”
Dayon gin-gisi ni David kag sang tanan niya nga tinawo ang ila mga bayo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo .
Naghinibi sila kag nagpuasa hasta maggab-i para kay Saul, sa iya anak nga si Jonatan, kag para sa nasyon sang Israel, ang katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay madamo madamo sa ila ang nagkalamatay sa inaway.
Nagpamangkot pa gid si David sa pamatan-on nga nagbalita sa iya, “Taga-diin ka?” Nagsabat siya, “Pangayaw ako, isa ka Amaleknon nga nagaestar sa inyo duta.”
Nagpamangkot si David, “Ngaa wala ka mahadlok magpatay sa pinili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga hari?”
Dayon gintawag ni David ang isa sa iya mga tinawo kag ginsugo, “Dali, patya siya!” Gani ginpatay niya siya.
Nagsiling pa si David sa Amaleknon, “Ikaw ang responsable sa imo kamatayon. Ikaw mismo ang nagpamatuod kontra sa imo kaugalingon sang magsiling ka nga ginpatay mo ang pinili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga hari.”
Naghimo si David sang panalambiton para kay Saul kag sa iya anak nga si Jonatan,
kag nagsugo siya nga itudlo ini sa katawhan sang Juda. Gintawag ini nga Kanta Parte sa Pana,
Nagkalamatay man ang inyo maisog nga mga soldado!
Sang ikatlo nga adlaw, may nag-abot nga tawo sa Ziklag halin sa kampo ni Saul, nga gisi ang iya bayo kag may mga yab-ok ang iya ulo sa pagpakita nga nagapangasubo siya sa pagpakita nga nagapangasubo siya . Nagkadto siya kay David kag nagluhod bilang pagtahod sa iya.
sang mga Filistinhon nga wala nagatuo sa Dios.
sa sina nga taming.
nga maisog nga mga kaaway.
kag mas makusog pa sa mga leon.
kag mga alahas nga bulawan.
Napatay man si Jonatan sa inyo kabukiran.
labaw pa sa paghigugma sang mga babayi.
Ang ila mga armas nagkaladula.”
Ginpamangkot siya ni David, “Diin ka naghalin?” Nagsabat siya, “Nakapalagyo ako halin sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon.”
Nagpamangkot si David, “Ngaa, ano ang natabo? Sugiri ako.” Nagsiling siya, “Nagpalagyo ang mga soldado sang Israel sa inaway. Madamo sa ila ang nagkalamatay, pati na si Saul kag ang iya anak nga si Jonatan.”
Nagpamangkot si David sa pamatan-on, “Paano mo nahibaluan nga patay na si Saul kag si Jonatan?”
Nagsabat ang pamatan-on, “Natabuan nga didto ako sa Bukid sang Gilboa, kag nakita ko didto si Saul nga nagasandig sa iya bangkaw. Ang mga kaaway nagapalapit sa iya nga nagasakay sa mga karwahe kag mga kabayo.
Sang magliso siya, nakita niya ako kag iya ako gintawag. Nagsabat ako, ‘Ano ang mabulig ko?’
Ginpamangkot niya ako kon sin-o ako. Nagsabat ako nga isa ako ka Amaleknon.
Dayon nagsiling siya sa akon, ‘Palapit diri kag patya ako, kay nabudlayan na gid ako sa akon kahimtangan.’
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpamangkot si David sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Mabalik bala ako sa isa sa mga banwa sang Juda?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Huo.” Nagpamangkot si David, “Sa diin?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sa Hebron.”
Nagaedad si Ishboshet sang 40 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya sang Israel, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang duha ka tuig. Ang mga taga-Juda ya, si David ang ila ginkilala nga hari,
kag naghari si David sa Juda sa sulod sang pito ka tuig kag anom ka bulan. Didto siya nag-estar sa Hebron.
Isa sina ka tion, nagkadto si Abner sa Gibeon halin sa Mahanaim kaupod ang mga tinawo ni Ishboshet.
Ginsugata sila ni Joab nga anak ni Zeruya kag sang mga tinawo ni David didto sa punong sang Gibeon. Nagpungko ang grupo ni Abner sa pihak nga parte sang punong kag ang grupo ni Joab sa pihak man nga parte sang punong.
Dayon nagsiling si Abner kay Joab, “Paawayon ta sa aton atubangan ang pila naton ka maayo nga mga soldado.” Nagsugot si Joab,
gani nagtindog sa pagpakig-away ang dose ka tinawo ni Ishboshet nga halin sa tribo ni Benjamin kag ang dose ka tinawo ni David.
Nagdakpanay sila sa ulo kag nagbun-anay hasta nga nagkalamatay sila tanan. Gani gintawag ato nga lugar sa Gibeon nga Helkat Hazurim.
Dayon nag-inaway ang duha ka grupo sing puwerte gid. Kag sa sina nga adlaw napierdi si Abner kag ang mga tinawo sang Israel sa mga tinawo ni David.
Gani nagkadto didto si David upod ang iya duha ka asawa nga si Ahinoam nga taga-Jezreel kag si Abigail nga asawa anay ni Nabal nga taga-Carmel.
Sang magbalikid si Abner, nakita niya siya kag ginpamangkot, “Ikaw bala ina Asahel?” Nagsabat si Asahel, “Huo.”
Dayon nagsiling si Abner sa iya, “Indi na ako paglagsa, kundi ang isa na lang sa akon kaupod nga mga soldado, kag kuhaa ang iya mga kagamitan.” Pero wala gid mag-untat si Asahel sa paglagas sa iya.
Nagsiling liwat si Abner kay Asahel, “Indi na ako paglagsa! Indi ako pagpilita nga patyon ka. Mahuya na ako nga mag-atubang sa imo utod nga si Joab kon patyon ko ikaw.”
Pero wala gid mag-untat si Asahel sa paglagas sa iya, gani ginbuno siya ni Abner sang puno sang bangkaw sa tiyan, kag naglapos ini sa iya likod. Natumba siya kag napatay dayon. Ang mga tawo nga makaagi didto sa lugar nga sa diin ginpatay si Asahel nagapundo.
Sang mahibaluan ni Sang mahibaluan ni Joab kag ni Abishai ang natabo, ang natabo, ginlagas nila si Abner. Kag sang nagasalop na ang adlaw, nakaabot sila sa bukid sang Ama malapit sa Gia, sa dalan nga pakadto sa kamingawan sang Gibeon.
Nagtipon kay Abner didto sa ibabaw sang bukid ang mga soldado nga halin sa tribo ni Benjamin para magpreparar sa pagpakig-away.
Nagsinggit si Abner kay Joab, “Padayon na lang bala kita magpinatyanay? Wala mo bala mareyalisar nga ang resulta sini amo ang pagdinumtanay? San-o mo pa bala pauntaton ang imo mga tinawo sa paglagas sa amon nga inyo mga kadugo?”
Nagsabat si Joab, “Kon wala ka maghambal, ginasiguro ko gid sa imo, sa presensya sang buhi nga Dios, nga lagson ka gid kuntani sang akon mga tinawo hasta mag-aga.”
Gani ginpatunog ni Joab ang budyong kag nag-untat ang tanan niya nga tinawo sa paglagas sa mga taga-Israel. Kag nag-untat ang inaway.
Bilog nga gab-i nga naglakat si Abner kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Kapatagan sang Jordan.
Gin-upod man ni David ang iya mga tinawo pati ang ila mga pamilya, kag didto sila nag-estar sa Hebron kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Pag-untat ni Joab lagas kay Abner, nagpuli man siya kag ang iya mga tinawo. Sang ginpatipon niya sila, nasapwan niya nga magluwas kay Asahel, 19 ang napatay sa ila.
Pero 360 ang napatay nila nga mga tinawo ni Abner, kag puro tanan halin sa tribo ni Benjamin.
Ginkuha nila ni Joab ang bangkay ni Asahel kag ginlubong sa ginlubngan sa iya amay sa Betlehem. Dayon bilog nga gab-i sila nga naglakat, kag nakaabot sila sa Hebron sang kaagahon.
Sang mabalitaan ni David nga ang mga taga-Jabesh Gilead ang naglubong kay Saul,
nagpadala siya sang mga mensahero sa ila sa pagsiling, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ginpakita ninyo nga gugma kay Saul nga inyo agalon paagi sa paglubong sa iya.
Kabay pa nga ipakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya gugma kag katutom sa inyo, kag ipakita ko man ang akon kaayo sa inyo tungod sa inyo ginhimo.
Kag karon, magpakabakod kag magpakaisog kamo bisan patay na si Saul nga inyo agalon. Ako ang ginpili sang mga taga-Juda bilang ila hari.”
Karon, ang kumander sang mga soldado ni Saul nga si Abner nga anak ni Ner nagkadto sa Mahanaim. Gindala niya si Ishboshet nga anak ni Saul.
Didto ginproklamar ni Abner si Ishboshet nga hari sang bilog nga Israel, lakip na diri ang mga lugar sang Gilead, Ashuri, Jezreel, Efraim, kag Benjamin.
Amo ato ang umpisa sang malawig nga inaway sang mga nagaunong kay Saul kag sang mga nagaunong kay David. Nagabakod nga nagabakod ang grupo ni David pero ang kay Saul ya nagaluya nga nagaluya.
Nagpromisa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi na niya pagpaharion ang bisan sin-o sa mga kaliwat ni Saul kundi si David na ang iya paharion sa Israel kag sa Juda, halin sa Dan hasta sa Beersheba.”
Wala na nangahas pa nga maghambal si Ishboshet kay nahadlok siya kay Abner.
Dayon nagpadala si Abner sang mga mensahero kay David sa pagsiling, “Ikaw ang dapat maghari sa bilog nga duta sang Israel. Maghimo ka sang kasugtanan sa akon kag buligan ko ikaw nga ipasakop sa imo ang bilog nga nasyon sang Israel.”
Nagsabat si David, “Sige, mahimo ako sang kasugtanan sa imo sa isa ka kondisyon: dal-on mo balik sa akon ang akon asawa nga si Mical nga anak ni Saul sa imo pagpakigkita sa akon.”
Dayon nagpadala si David sang mga mensahero kay Ishboshet sa pagsiling, “Ibalik sa akon ang akon asawa nga si Mical. Kay napangasawa ko siya sa baylo sang 100 ka panit sa punta sang kinatawo sang mga Filistinhon nga akon ginpatay nga akon ginpatay .”
Gani nagsugo si Ishboshet nga kuhaon si Mical sa iya bana nga si Paltiel nga anak ni Laish.
Nagsunod si Paltiel kay Mical nga nagahilibion hasta sa Bahurim. Ginhambalan ni Abner si Paltiel nga magpuli. Gani nagpuli siya.
Nagpakig-estorya si Abner sa mga manugdumala sang Israel. Siling niya, “Dugay na nga luyag ninyo nga mangin hari si David.
Karon amo na ini ang inyo kahigayunan, kay nagpromisa ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya alagad nga si David nga paagi sa iya luwason niya ang iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon sa kamot sang mga Filistinhon kag sa tanan nila nga kaaway.”
Nagpakig-estorya man si Abner sa tribo ni Benjamin. Dayon nagkadto siya sa Hebron sa pagsugid kay David nga komporme ang katawhan sang Israel kag Benjamin nga mangin hari nila siya.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni David nga nagkalatawo sa Hebron: Ang kamagulangan amo si Amnon nga anak niya kay Ahinoam nga taga-Jezreel.
Pag-abot ni Abner sa Hebron kaupod sang iya 20 ka tinawo, nagpapunsyon si David para sa ila.
Nagsiling si Abner kay David, “Mahal nga Hari, tuguti ako nga maglakat subong sa pagkombinsi sa tanan nga katawhan sang Israel nga suportaran ka nila bilang hari. Pahimuon ko sila sang kasugtanan sa imo nga batunon ka nila nga ila hari. Dayon magahari ka sa bisan diin nga luyag mo pagaharian.” Gani ginpalakat ni David si Abner nga wala niya pag-anha.
Nag-abot si Joab kag ang iban nga mga tinawo ni David didto sa Hebron halin sa pagsalakay, kag madamo gid ang ila dala nga mga inagaw. Pero wala na didto si Abner kay ginpalakat na siya ni David nga wala niya pag-anha.
Sang mabalitaan ni Joab nga nagkadto si Abner sa hari kag ginpalakat nga wala pag-anha,
nagkadto si Joab sa hari kag nagsiling, “Ano bala ang imo ginhimo? Nagkadto na gid diri sa imo si Abner, ngaa ginpalakat mo pa? Ti, karon wala na siya!
Kilala mo man si Abner. Nagkadto siya diri sa pagdaya sa imo, kag sa pagpanilag sa tanan mo nga ginahimo.”
Naghalin dayon si Joab kay David kag nagpasugo siya sa paglagas kay Abner. Naabtan nila si Abner sa bubon sang Sira kag gindala siya balik sa Hebron. Pero wala kahibalo si David sini.
Sang didto na si Abner sa Hebron, gindala siya ni Joab sa may puwertahan sang banwa nga silahanon lang kay kuno may estoryahan sila nga duha. Kag didto ginbuno ni Joab si Abner sa tiyan bilang balos sa pagpatay ni Abner sa iya utod nga si Asahel. Kag napatay si Abner.
Sang mabalitaan ato ni David, nagsiling siya, “Nakahibalo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ako kag ang akon mga tinawo inosente gid sa pagkapatay ni Abner nga anak ni Ner.
Si Joab kag ang iya pamilya amo ang may salabton. Kabay pa nga sa iya mga kaliwat may ara permi sang may balatian nga may nagaguwa sa iya kinatawo, may delikado nga balatian sa panit,
Ang ikaduha amo si Kileab nga anak niya kay Abigail nga asawa anay ni Nabal nga taga-Carmel. Ang ikatatlo amo si Absalom nga anak niya kay Maaca nga anak ni Haring Talmai sang Geshur.
(Ang kabangdanan nga ginpatay ni Joab kag sang iya utod nga si Abishai si Abner tungod nga ginpatay ni Abner ang ila utod nga si Asahel sa inaway didto sa Gibeon.)
Dayon nagsiling si David kay Joab kag sa tanan nga kaupod niya, “Gisia ang inyo mga bayo, kag magsuksok kamo sang sako. Magpangasubo kamo samtang nagalakat kamo sa unahan sang bangkay ni Abner sa paglubong sa iya.” Nagkumpanyar man si Haring David nga nagasunod sa bangkay.
Ginlubong si Abner sa Hebron, kag naghibi gid sing tudo si Haring David didto sa ginlubngan. Naghibi man ang tanan nga tawo nga nagkumpanyar.
“Ngaa nga napatay si Abner nga daw isa ka kriminal?
Naghibi liwat ang tanan nga tawo kay Abner.
Sadto nga adlaw wala magkaon si David, gani ginpilit siya sang mga tawo nga magkaon. Pero nagsumpa si David nga nagasiling, “Kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios sing puwerte gid kon magkaon ako sang bisan ano sa wala pa magsalop ang adlaw.”
Nalipay ang mga tawo sa ginsiling ni David, kag indi lang sa sina, kundi pati man sa tanan nga ginhimo ni David.
Gani nahibaluan sang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel nga si Haring David wala sing labot sa pagkapatay ni Abner.
Dayon nagsiling si David sa iya mga tinawo, “Wala bala ninyo mareyalisar nga napatay ang isa ka gamhanan nga pangulo sang Israel subong nga adlaw?
Kag bisan ako ang ginpili nga hari subong, wala ako sing ikasarang sa pagtapna kay Joab kag kay Abishai, nga Joab kag kay Abishai, nga mga anak ni Zeruya. Nabudlayan ako sa pagtapna sa ila. Gani ang Ginoo Ginoo na lang ang magabalos sa sining malain nga mga tawo sa mga kalautan nga ila ginahimo.”
Ang ikaapat amo si Adonia nga anak niya kay Hagit. Ang ikalima amo si Shefatia nga anak niya kay Abital.
Kag ang ikaanom amo si Itream nga anak niya kay Egla. Sila ang mga anak ni David nga nagkalatawo sa Hebron.
Samtang nagapadayon ang inaway sang mga nagaunong kay David kag sang mga nagaunong kay Saul, si Abner nangin gamhanan nga pangulo sang mga nagaunong kay Saul.
Isa ka adlaw, gin-akusar ni Ishboshet si Abner. Siling niya, “Ngaa nga naghulid ka sa isa sa mga asawa sang akon amay nga si Saul?” Ang ginatumod ni Ishboshet nga babayi amo si Rizpa nga anak ni Aya.
Naakig gid si Abner sa ginsiling ni Ishboshet, gani nagsabat siya, “Nagahunahuna ka bala nga ginatraiduran ko ang imo amay,
Kon amo man lang sina, maayo pa nga buligan ko na lang si David nga matuman ang ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, kag kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios sing puwerte gid kon indi ko siya mabuligan.
Sang pagkabati ni Ishboshet, nga anak ni Saul, nga ginpatay si Abner sa Hebron, hinadlukan gid siya pati ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel.
Sadto anay may tawo nga nagkadto sa akon sa Ziklag kag nagsiling nga patay na si Saul. Naghunahuna siya nga nagdala siya sang maayo nga balita sa akon. Sa baylo, ginpadakop ko siya kag ginpapatay. Amo ato ang akon premyo sa iya, sa iya nga ginbalita.
Karon, kamo nga mga malain silutan ko sing sobra pa sa sini, kay ginpatay ninyo ang isa ka tawo nga wala sing sala, nga nagakatulog pa sa iya katre sa iya balay. Sukton ko kamo sa inyo pagpatay sa iya para mawala kamo sa kalibutan.”
Gani nagmando si David sa iya mga tinawo nga patyon si Recab kag si Baanah, kag gintuman nila ini. Gin-utod nila ang ila sini mga kamot kag mga tiil kag ginpakabit ang ila mga lawas sa may punong sa Hebron. Ginkuha nila ang ulo ni Ishboshet kag ginlubong sa ginlubngan kay Abner sa Hebron.
May duha ka tinawo si Ishboshet nga nagpangulo sa mga manugsalakay sa mga banwa sang ila mga kaaway. Sila amo si Baanah kag si Recab. Mga anak sila ni Rimmon nga taga-Beerot, nga halin sa tribo ni Benjamin. Ining Beerot sakop subong sang Benjamin,
kay ang mga nahauna nga mga pumuluyo sini nagpalagyo sa Gitaim, kag hasta subong nagaestar sila didto bilang mga pangayaw.
(May isa pa ka isa pa ka anak si Saul nga si Jonatan nga may anak nga lupog. Ang iya ngalan si Mefiboshet. Nagaedad siya sang lima ka tuig sang napatay si Saul kag si Jonatan sa Jezreel. Sang mabalitaan sang yaya ni Mefiboshet nga napatay si Saul kag si Jonatan, ginhakwat niya siya kag nagpalagyo. Pero samtang nagadali-dali ang yaya sa pagpalagyo, nabuy-an niya ang bata, kag ang resulta nalupog ini.)
Isa ka adlaw, nagkadto sa balay ni Ishboshet si Recab kag si Baanah nga mga anak ni Rimmon nga taga-Beerot. Nag-abot sila didto sang udtong-adlaw, samtang nagapahuway si Ishboshet.
Pag-abot nila sa Hebron, gindala nila ang ulo ni Ishboshet kay David kag nagsiling sila sa iya, “Ari ang ulo ni Ishboshet nga anak sang imo kaaway nga si Saul nga nagtinguha sa pagpatay sa imo. Nagbalos ang Ginoo Ginoo para sa imo subong nga adlaw kontra kay Saul kag sa iya mga kaliwat.”
Nagsabat si David sa ila, “Isugid ko sa inyo ang matuod sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga nagluwas sa akon sa tanan nga katalagman.
Nagkadto ang tanan nga tribo sang Israel kay David sa Hebron kag nagsiling, “Mga kadugo mo kami.
Naggamhanan nga naggamhanan si David, tungod kay ginabuligan siya sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom.
Karon nagpadala si Haring Hiram sang Tyre sang mga mensahero kay David kaupod ang mga panday kag mga mason, lakip ang mga kahoy nga sedro, para patindugan si David sang palasyo.
Kag nareyalisar ni David nga ang Ginoo Ginoo ang nagbutang sa iya nga hari sa Israel kag nagpauswag sang iya ginharian para sa iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Sang magsaylo si David sa Jerusalem halin sa Hebron, madamo pa gid ang iya ginpangasawa; ang iban sa ila iya mga suluguon, kag nagdugang pa gid ang iya mga anak.
Amo ini ang mga ngalan sang iya mga anak nga lalaki nga natawo sa Jerusalem: Shamua, Shobab, Natan, Solomon,
Ibhar, Elishua, Nefeg, Jafia,
Elishama, Eliada, kag Elifelet.
Sang mabalitaan sang mga Filistinhon nga si David ang ginpili nga hari sa Israel, gintipon nila ang tanan nila nga mga soldado sa pagdakop sa iya. Pero nabalitaan ato ni David, gani nagkadto siya sa isa ka mabakod nga kuta.
Karon, nagkampo ang mga Filistinhon sa Kapatagan sang Refaim.
Gani nagpamangkot si David sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Salakayon bala namon ang mga Filistinhon? Ipapierdi mo bala sila sa amon?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Huo, lakat kamo, kay ipapierdi ko gid sila sa inyo.”
Halin sang una, bisan sang si Saul pa ang amon hari, ikaw ang nagapangulo sa mga Israelinhon sa pagpakig-away. Kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo, ‘Atipanon mo ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon pareho sa isa ka manug-atipan sang mga karnero. Ikaw ang mangin pangulo nila.’ ”
Gani nagkadto si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Baal Perazim, kag didto ginpierdi nila ang mga Filistinhon. Nagsiling dayon si David, “Ginlaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang akon mga kaaway nga daw sa ginsalakay sang mabaskog nga baha, kag nakita ko ini mismo.” Amo ina kon ngaa gintawag ato nga lugar nga Baal Perazim.
Ginbayaan sang mga Filistinhon ang ila mga dios-dios didto, kag gindala ini ni David kag sang iya mga tinawo.
Nagbalik liwat ang mga Filistinhon kag nagkampo sa Kapatagan sang Refaim.
Gani nagpamangkot liwat si David sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi kamo magderetso salakay sa ila kundi libuti ninyo sila kag salakaya malapit sa mga kahoy nga balsam.
Kon mabatian ninyo ang daw martsa sang mga soldado sa ibabaw nga parte sang mga kahoy nga balsam, magdali-dali kamo sa pagsalakay kay amo ina ang tanda nga nagapanguna ako sa inyo sa pagsalakay sa mga Filistinhon.”
Gani gintuman ni David ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, kag ginpamatay nila ang mga Filistinhon halin sa Geba
Gani didto sa Hebron, naghimo si David sang kasugtanan sa mga manugdumala sang Israel sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginhaplasan nila sang lana ang ulo ni David sa pagpakita nga siya na ang hari sang Israel.
Nagaedad si David sang 30 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
Pito ka tuig kag anom ka bulan ang iya paghari sa Juda samtang nagaestar siya sa Hebron, kag 33 ka tuig ang iya paghari sa bilog nga Israel kag Juda samtang nagaestar siya sa Jerusalem.
Isa ka tion, naglakat si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Jerusalem sa pagsalakay sa mga Jebusnon nga nagaestar didto. Nagsiling ang mga Jebusnon kay David, “Indi gid kamo makasulod diri sa Jerusalem! Bisan ang mga bulag kag mga piang makapugong sa inyo sa pagsulod.” Amo ato ang ila ginsiling, kay naghunahuna sila nga indi gid makasulod sila ni David.
Pero naagaw gid man nila ni David ang mabakod nga kuta sang Zion, nga gintawag sang ulihi nga gintawag sang ulihi nga Banwa ni David.
Sang wala pa masulod ni David ang Jerusalem, nagsiling siya sa iya mga tinawo, “Didto kamo agi sa alagyan sang tubig para makasulod kamo sa Jerusalem kag mapierdi ninyo ang mga Jebusnon nga daw sa mga piang kag mga bulag. Kontra ko gid sila!” Amo ina nga may hulubaton nga nagasiling, “Indi makasulod ang mga bulag kag mga piang sa balay sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Sa tapos maagaw ni David ang Zion, didto siya nag-estar, kag gintawag niya ato nga Banwa ni David. Ginpadugangan niya ini sang pader sa palibot halin sa manubo nga parte sang banwa.
Ginpatipon liwat ni David ang pinakamaayo nga mga soldado sang Israel, nga ang kadamuon 30,000.
Gani nagdesisyon siya nga indi na lang niya pagdal-on ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya banwa.
Didto ini sa balay ni Obed Edom sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan, kag ginpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo si Obed Edom kag ang iya bilog nga panimalay.
Karon ginsugiran si Haring David nga ginpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang panimalay ni Obed Edom kag ang tanan nga iya ginapanag-iyahan tungod sa Kahon sang Dios. Gani nagkadto si David sa balay ni Obed Edom kag ginkuha ang Kahon sang Dios para dal-on sa iya banwa nga may kinalipay.
Sang nakaanom na ka tikang ang mga nagadala sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginpapundo sila ni David ginpapundo sila ni David kag naghalad siya sang isa ka turo nga baka kag isa ka ginpatambok nga bataon nga baka.
Nagsaot si David sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa bug-os niya nga kusog, nga nagatampi sang espesyal nga panapton
Samtang ginadala niya kag sang katawhan sang Israel ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagahinugyaw sila kag nagapatunog sang mga budyong.
Sang nagapasulod na ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Banwa ni David, nagtan-aw si Mical nga anak ni Saul sa bintana. Kag sang makita niya si Haring David nga nagatumbo-tumbo nga nagasaot sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginkaugtan niya siya.
Ginbutang nila ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sulod sang tolda nga ginpatindog ni David para sa sini nga Kahon. Dayon naghalad si David sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Pagkatapos niya halad sadto, ginbendisyunan niya ang mga tawo sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Dayon ginhatagan niya ang tagsa ka Israelinhon didto, lalaki kag babayi, sang tinapay, karne,
Naglakat dayon sila sa Baala nga sakop sang Juda sa pagkuha didto sang Kahon sang Dios,
Sang magpuli si David sa pagbendisyon sa iya panimalay, ginsugata siya ni Mical nga anak ni Saul kag ginsuknaan,
Nagsiling si David kay Mical, “Ginhimo ko ato sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpili sa akon sa baylo sang imo amay ukon sa kay bisan sin-o sa iya panimalay. Ginpili niya ako nga magdumala sa iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Gani magapadayon ako sa pagselebrar sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
kag sobra pa nga makahuluya ang akon himuon. Makahuluya ako sa imo
Wala gid sing bata si Mical hasta nga napatay siya.
Nagaselebrar si David kag ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa bug-os nila nga kusog. Nagakanta sila
Sang pag-abot nila sa linasan ni Nacon, gin-uyatan ni Uza ang Kahon sang Dios, tungod nakadalin-as ang mga baka.
Naakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Uza tungod sa iya ginhimo. Gani ginpatay siya sang Dios didto sa kilid sang Kahon.
Naakig si David tungod ginsilutan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Uza sa iya kaakig. Amo ina nga hasta subong ginatawag ato nga lugar nga Perez Uza.
Hinadlukan si David sa Ginoo Ginoo sadto nga adlaw, kag nagsiling siya, “Paano na lang madala sa akon banwa banwa ang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo ?”
Nag-estar na si Haring David David sa iya palasyo, kag ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kalinong ang iya ginharian, nga wala na sing mga kaaway nga nagasalakay.
halin sang tion nga nagbutang ako sang mga pangulo sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Hatagan ko sang kalinong ang imo ginharian, nga wala na sing mga kaaway nga nagasalakay. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasugid sa imo nga magahari permi ang isa sang imo mga kaliwat.
Kon mapatay ka na kag ilubong upod sa imo mga katigulangan, pabuslon ko sa imo ang isa sa imo mga anak, kag palig-unon ko ang iya ginharian.
Siya ang magapatindog sang templo para sa akon kadungganan, kag siguraduhon ko nga ang iya mga kaliwat amo ang magahari hasta san-o.
Ako mangin iya amay, kag siya mangin akon anak. Kon makasala siya, disiplinahon ko siya pareho sang pagdisiplina sang isa ka amay sa iya anak.
Pero magapabilin gihapon ang akon gugma sa iya, indi pareho sa akon ginhimo kay Saul nga imo ginbuslan nga hari.
Magapadayon ang imo ginharian sa wala sing katapusan; ang imo mga kaliwat magahari hasta san-o.’ ”
Ginsugid ni Natan kay David ang tanan nga ginpahayag sang Dios sa iya.
Dayon nagsulod si Haring David sa Tolda nga sa diin ara ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sa Tolda nga sa diin ara ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan . Nagpungko siya didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagpangamuyo, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , sin-o gid bala ako kag ang akon pamilya nga ginpakamaayo mo ako sing pareho sini?
Kag karon, Ginoong Dios Dios , may promisa ka pa gid parte sa palaabuton sang akon pamilya. Amo bala ini ang kinaandan nga ginahimo mo sa tawo?
Isa ka adlaw, nagsiling si David kay Propeta Natan, “Ari ako nagaestar sa matahom nga matahom nga palasyo nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sedro, pero ang Kahon sang Dios ara lang sa tolda.”
Ano pa bala ang akon mahambal sa imo, Ginoong Dios Dios ? Kay nahibaluan mo naman kon sin-o gid ako nga imo alagad.
Tungod sa imo promisa kag suno sa imo kabubut-on, ginhimo mo ining dalagko nga mga butang kag ginpahibalo sa akon nga akon nga imo alagad.
“Ginoong Dios Dios , daw ano ka kagamhanan! Wala gid sing pareho sa imo kag wala na sing iban pa nga Dios magluwas sa imo. Wala kami sing may nabatian nga may dios nga pareho sa imo.
Kag wala na sing katawhan nga pareho sa imo katawhan nga Israelinhon. Amo lang ini nga nasyon sa kalibutan nga imo ginhilway sa pagkaulipon sa pagkaulipon para mangin imo katawhan. Nangin bantog ka tungod sang gamhanan kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga ginhimo mo sang gintabog mo ang mga nasyon kag ang ila mga dios-dios paagi sa imo katawhan nga ginpaguwa mo sa Egypt.
Ginhimo mo ang mga Israelinhon nga imo katawhan hasta san-o, kag ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo , nangin ila Dios.
Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, Dios sang Israel, may kaisog ako sa pagpangamuyo sini sa imo tungod kay ginpahayag mo sa akon nga imo alagad nga magahari permi ang isa sa akon mga kaliwat.
Ginoong Dios Dios , matuod ikaw nga Dios! Ginpromisa mo ining maayo nga mga butang sa akon nga imo alagad, kag masaligan gid ang imo mga promisa.
Kabay pa nga ikalipay mo ang pagpakamaayo sa akon pamilya para magapadayon ini hasta san-o sa imo presensya, kay amo ini ang imo ginpromisa, Ginoong Dios Dios . Kag sa sini nga pagpakamaayo mo, pakamaayuhon gid man ang akon pamilya hasta san-o.”
Nagsabat si Natan sa hari, “Himua ang gusto mo nga himuon, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo nagaupod sa imo.”
Pero sadto mismo nga gab-i nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Natan,
“Lakat kag silinga ang akon alagad nga si David nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: ‘Ikaw bala ang magapatindog sang templo nga pagaestaran ko?
Wala pa ako makaestar sa templo halin sang tion nga ginpaguwa ko ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt hasta subong. Nagasaylo-saylo lang ako nga ang akon ginaestaran tolda.
Sa akon pagsaylo-saylo upod sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon, wala ako magreklamo sa ila mga pangulo nga akon ginsugo sa pag-atipan sa ila nga wala nila ako pagpatindugi sang templo nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sedro.’
“Silinga pa gid si David nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nagasiling, ‘Manugbantay ka sang una sang mga karnero, pero ginpili ko ikaw nga magdumala sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Gin-updan ko ikaw bisan diin ka nagkadto, kag ginpapierdi ko sa imo ang tanan mo nga kaaway. Karon, pabantugon ko ikaw pareho sa iban nga bantog nga mga tawo sa kalibutan.
Sang ulihi napierdi ni David ang mga Filistinhon, kag ginsakop niya sila. Naagaw niya sa ila ang lugar sang Meteg Ama.
Gani ginpakadto niya ang iya anak nga si Joram kay Haring David sa pagpangamusta kag sa pagpadungog sa iya sa pagdaog niya kay Hadadezer sa inaway. (Ining si Tou kag si Hadadezer kontrahanay halin sang una pa.) Nagdala si Joram sang mga regalo nga hinimo halin sa pilak, bulawan, kag saway.
Ginhalad ini ni Haring David sa Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa iya ginhimo sa mga pilak kag bulawan nga iya naagaw sa iban nga mga nasyon nga iya ginpierdi—
Kag nangin bantog pa gid si David matapos niya pamatay ang 18,000 ka Edomnon
Nagpabutang dayon siya sang mga kampo sa bilog nga Edom, kag nangin sakop niya ang tanan nga Edomnon. Ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo si David bisan diin siya magkadto sa pagpakig-away.
Naghari si David sa bilog nga Israel, nga nagahimo sang matarong kag husto para sa tanan niya nga katawhan.
Ang nagapangulo sa iya mga soldado amo si Joab nga anak ni Zeruya. Ang nagadumala sang mga kasulatan sang ginharian amo si Jehoshafat nga anak ni Ahilud.
Ang mga pangulo nga pangulo nga pari amo si Zadok nga anak ni Ahitub kag si Ahimelec nga anak ni Abiatar. Ang sekretaryo amo si Seraya.
Ang pangulo sang mga badigard ni David nga mga badigard ni David nga mga Keretnon kag mga Peletnon amo si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada. Kag ang mga manuglaygay
Napierdi man ni David ang mga Moabnon. Ginpahigda niya sila nga nagaraya sa duta kag gintakos sang lubid. Ang mga nasakop sang kada duha ka takos sang lubid ginpamatay, kag ang mga nasakop sang kada isa ka takos sang lubid gintugutan nga mabuhi. Ang mga Moabnon nga wala ginpamatay nangin sakop ni David kag nagbayad sila sang buhis sa iya.
Nagpakig-away man si David kay Haring Hadadezer sang Zoba, nga anak ni Rehob, sang maglakat si Hadadezer sa pagsakop liwat sang mga duta malapit sa Suba sang Euphrates.
Naagaw nila ni David ang 1,000 niya ka karwahe, 7,000 ka manugkarwahe,
Sang mag-abot ang mga Arameanhon
Nagpabutang dayon si David sang mga kampo sa Damascus, ang lugar sang mga Arameanhon. Kag nangin sakop niya sila, kag nagbayad sila sang buhis sa iya. Ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo si David bisan diin siya magkadto sa pagpakig-away.
Ginkuha ni David ang bulawan nga mga taming nga iya sang mga opisyal ni Hadadezer, kag gindala ini sa Jerusalem.
Ginkuha man niya ang madamo gid nga mga saway sa Beta
Karon, nabalitaan ni Haring Tou
Isa ka adlaw, Isa ka adlaw, nagpamangkot si David, “May nabilin pa bala sa pamilya ni Saul nga mapakitaan ko sang kaayo tungod kay Jonatan?”
Ikaw, ang imo mga anak, kag ang imo mga suluguon ang magapanguma sang duta para sa iya, kag dal-on mo sa iya ang mga patubas, para may pagkaon ang pamilya
Nagsiling si Ziba sa hari, “Mahal nga Hari, tumanon ko ang bisan ano nga isugo mo sa akon nga imo suluguon.” Halin sadto, nagakaon permi si Mefiboshet upod kay David nga daw isa sa iya mga anak.
May anak si Mefiboshet nga lalaki nga ang ngalan si Mica. Ang tanan nga miyembro sang panimalay ni Ziba nangin suluguon ni Mefiboshet.
Si Mefiboshet nga lupog didto na nag-estar sa Jerusalem kay didto siya nagakaon permi upod kay Haring David.
Ginpatawag niya ang isa ka tawo nga ang ngalan si Ziba, nga suluguon anay sang pamilya ni Saul. Pag-abot niya Pag-abot niya ginpamangkot siya ni David, “Ikaw bala si Ziba?” Nagsabat siya, “Huo, Mahal nga Hari.”
Nagpamangkot ang hari, “May nabilin pa bala sa pamilya ni Saul nga mapakitaan ko sang kaayo sang Dios?” Nagsabat siya sa hari, “May ara, ang anak ni Jonatan nga lalaki nga lupog.”
Ang ngalan sang anak ni Jonatan amo si Mefiboshet kag apo siya ni Saul. Pag-abot niya kay David nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod sa iya. Nagsiling si David, “Mefiboshet?” Nagsabat siya, “Huo, sir.”
Nagsiling si David sa iya, “Indi ka magkahadlok, kay pakitaan ko gid ikaw sang kaayo tungod sa imo amay nga si Jonatan. Iuli ko sa imo ang tanan nga kadutaan sang imo lolo nga si Saul, kag indi lang ina, kundi makakaon ka permi upod sa akon.”
Nagluhod si Mefiboshet kag nagsiling, “Sin-o gid bala ako nga trataron mo sing subong sini? Pareho man lang ako sa patay nga ido.”
Dayon ginpatawag sang hari si Ziba, nga suluguon anay anay ni Saul, kag ginsilingan, “Ginahatag ko kay Mefiboshet, nga Mefiboshet, nga apo sang imo agalon nga si Saul, ang tanan nga pagkabutang ni Saul kag sang iya pamilya.
Sang ulihi napatay si Nahash nga hari sang mga Ammonhon. Kag ang iya anak nga si Hanun amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Ang nabilin nga mga soldado ginpapanguluhan niya kay Abishai nga iya utod sa pagpakig-away sa mga Ammonhon.
Nagsiling si Joab kay Abishai, kay Abishai, “Kon makita mo nga daw mapierdi na kami sang mga Arameanhon, buligan ninyo kami, kag kon kamo man ang daw mapierdi sang mga Ammonhon buligan namon kamo.
Magpakabaskog kita! Magpakig-away kita nga may kaisog para sa aton katawhan kag sa mga banwa sang aton Dios. Himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo kon ano ang maayo para sa iya.”
Dayon nagsalakay si Joab upod sang iya mga tinawo, kag nagpalalagyo ang mga Arameanhon sa ila.
Pagkakita sang mga Ammonhon nga nagapalalagyo ang mga Arameanhon, nagpalagyo man sila kay Abishai kag nagsulod sa ila banwa. Gani nagpuli sila ni Joab sa Jerusalem halin sa pagpakig-away sa mga Ammonhon.
Sang mareyalisar sang mga Arameanhon nga napierdi sila sang mga Israelinhon, nagtipon sila liwat.
Ginbuligan sila sang iban nga mga Arameanhon nga ginpatawag ni Hadadezer halin sa tabok sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates . Nagkadto sila sa Helam sa pagpangulo ni Shobac nga kumander sang mga soldado ni Hadadezer.
Sang mahibaluan ini ni David, ginpatipon niya ang tanan nga soldado sang Israel sa pagpakig-away sa pagpakig-away . Dayon nagtabok sila sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagkadto sa Helam. Nagplastar ang mga Arameanhon sa pagpakig-away sa ila ni David, kag dayon nag-inaway sila.
Pero nagpalalagyo ang mga Arameanhon sa mga Israelinhon. Nakapatay sila ni David sang 700 ka manugkarwahe kag 40,000 ka manugkabayo.
Sang makita sang mga hari sang mga Arameanhon, sang mga Arameanhon, nga mga sakop ni Hadadezer, nga napierdi na sila sang mga Israelinhon, nagpakig-abyan sila sa mga Israelinhon kag nagpasakop sa ila. Gani halin sadto nahadlok na ang mga Arameanhon nga magbulig sa mga Ammonhon.
Pero sang pag-abot sang mga alagad ni David sa duta sang mga Ammonhon,
nagsiling ang mga opisyal sang mga Ammonhon kay Hanun nga ila agalon, “Nagahunahuna ka bala nga ginadumdom ni David ang imo amay paagi sa pagpadala sang mga tawo sa pag-unong sa imo kalisod? Indi ayhan ginpadala niya sila para magpang-espiya sa aton banwa kag laglagon ini?”
Gani ginpadakop ni Hanun ang mga alagad ni David kag ginpabalbasan niya ang pihak nga parte sang ila burangos. Ginpagutrab man niya ang ila mga bayo halin sa balikawang paidalom kag dayon ginpapuli sila.
Nahuya gid sila nga magpuli nga magpuli . Sang mabalitaan ni David ang natabo, nagpadala siya sang mga mensahero sa paghambal sa iya mga tinawo nga magpabilin lang anay sila sa Jerico hasta nga magtubo ang ila mga burangos, kag dayon makapuli na sila.
Nareyalisar sang mga Ammonhon nga ginpaakig gid nila si David. Gani nagsuhol sila sang 20,000 ka Arameanhon
Pagkabati sini ni David, ginpadala niya si Joab kag ang tanan nga maisog nga mga soldado sa pagpakig-away.
Nagplastar ang mga Ammonhon sa pagpakig-away sa may puwertahan sang ila banwa, samtang ang mga Arameanhon nga taga-Zoba kag taga-Rehob kag ang mga soldado nga taga-Tob kag taga-Maaca nagplastar sa kapatagan.
Sang makita ni Joab nga may mga kaaway sa iya atubang kag likod, nagpili siya sang pinakamaayo nga mga soldado sang Israel, kag ginpanguluhan niya sila sa pagpakig-away sa mga Arameanhon.
Sang tion nga nagalakat ang mga hari sa pagpakig-away, wala maglakat si David kundi nagpabilin lang siya sa Jerusalem. Ang iya ginpalakat sa inaway amo si Joab, ang iya mga opisyal, kag ang tanan nga soldado sang Israel. Ginpierdi nila ni Joab ang mga Ammonhon kag ginpalibutan ang Raba.
Sang ginsugiran si David nga wala magpuli si Uria, ginpatawag niya siya kag ginpatawag niya siya kag ginpamangkot, “Ngaa nga wala ka magpuli? Dugay ka nga wala sa inyo.”
Nagsiling si Uria, “Ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan kag ang mga soldado sang Israel kag Juda ara sa kampo sa kapatagan, kag didto man ang amon kumander nga si Joab kag ang iya mga opisyal. Makabatas bala ako nga magpuli sa pagkaon, pag-inom, kag paghulid sa akon asawa? Ginasumpa ko sa imo nga indi ko paghimuon ina.”
Nagsiling si David sa iya, “Magpabilin ka pa anay diri sing isa ka gab-i, kag pabalikon ko ikaw sa kampo sa kampo buwas.” Gani nagpabilin si Uria sadto nga adlaw sa Jerusalem. Pagkadason nga adlaw,
gin-agda siya ni David nga magkaon kag mag-inom upod sa iya, kag ginhubog siya ni David. Pero sadto nga gab-i wala gihapon siya magpuli kundi didto siya nagtulog liwat upod sa mga suluguon ni David.
Pagkaaga, nagsulat si David kay Joab kag ginpadala niya ini kay Uria.
Amo ini ang iya ginsulat: “Ibutang si Uria sa una, nga sa diin puwerte gid ang inaway, dayon atras kamo para maigo siya kag mapatay.”
Gani samtang ginapalibutan nila ni Joab ang Raba, ginbutang niya si Uria sa lugar nga sa diin ara ang mabakod nga mga soldado sang mga kaaway.
Nagsalakay ang mga kaaway sa ila ni Joab, kag napatay si Uria kaupod sang iban nga mga soldado ni David.
Nagpadala si Joab sang balita kay David parte sa tanan nga natabo sa inaway.
Ginsilingan niya ang mensahero, “Pagkatapos mo sugid sa hari parte sa natabo sa inaway,
Isa ka hapon, sang manugsalop na ang adlaw, nagbangon si David kag naglakat-lakat sa matapan nga matapan nga atop sang palasyo. Samtang nagatulok siya sa idalom, may nakita siya nga isa ka guwapa gid nga babayi nga nagapaligo.
ayhan mangakig siya kag pamangkuton ka niya, ‘Ngaa nga nagpalapit gid kamo sa banwa sa pagpakig-away? Wala bala kamo kahibalo nga mapana nila kamo halin sa pader?
Wala bala kamo makadumdom kon paano napatay si Abimelec nga anak ni Jerubeshet
Naglakat ang mensahero, kag pag-abot niya kay David ginsugiran niya siya sang tanan nga ginpasiling ni Joab.
Nagsiling siya kay David, “Ginsalakay kami sang mga kaaway sa kapatagan, pero ginlagas namon sila pabalik sa may puwertahan sang ila banwa.
Dayon ginpana kami sang mga manugpana nga ara sa pader, kag napatay ang iban sa imo mga soldado pati ang imo alagad nga si Uria nga Hithanon.”
Nagsiling si David sa mensahero, “Silinga si Joab nga indi maglain ang iya buot sa natabo, kay indi gid man mapaktan kon sin-o ang mapatay sa inaway. Silinga siya nga magpakabakod siya, kag pabaskugon pa gid niya ang pagsalakay sa banwa hasta nga malaglag ini.”
Sang pagkahibalo ni Batsheba nga napatay si Uria nga iya bana, nagpangasubo siya.
Pagkatapos sang tion sang pagpangasubo, ginpakuha siya ni David kag gindala sa palasyo. Nangin asawa siya ni David, kag sang ulihi nagbata siya sang lalaki. Pero tama kalain ang ginhimo ni David sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsugo si David sa paghibalo kon sin-o ato nga babayi. Kag ginsugiran siya nga ang babayi si Batsheba, nga anak ni Eliam kag asawa ni Uria nga Hithanon.
Dayon nagpadala si David sang mga tinawo sa pagkuha kay Batsheba. Kag sang pag-abot niya kay David, naghulid sila. (Bag-o lang sadto natapos ni Batsheba ang seremonya sa pagpakatinlo tungod sang iya pamulanon.) Pagkatapos nila hulid, nagpuli siya.
Sang ulihi nagbusong siya, kag nagpadala siya sang mensahi kay David nga nagabusong siya.
Gani nagpadala si David sang mensahi kay Joab nga pakadtuon sa iya si Uria nga Hithanon. Gani ginpakadto ni Joab si Uria kay David.
Pag-abot ni Uria, ginpamangkot siya ni David kon kamusta si Joab, ang mga soldado, kag ang ila pagpakig-away.
Dayon nagsiling si David sa iya, “Magpuli ka sa imo balay, kag magpahuway-huway.”
Pero wala magpuli si Uria kundi didto siya nagtulog sa puwertahan sang palasyo upod sa mga suluguon sang iya agalon nga si David nga si David .
Karon, ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo si Propeta Propeta Natan kay David. Pag-abot niya kay David, nagsiling siya, “May duha ka tawo nga nagaestar sa isa ka banwa. Ang isa manggaranon kag ang isa imol.
Gani tungod sa imo ginhimo, sugod subong permi lang may inaway kag pagpinatyanay sa imo pamilya, tungod nga ginsupak mo ako kag ginkuha mo ang asawa ni Uria.’
“Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘May ara nga miyembro sang imo panimalay nga magagamo sa imo. Ihatag ko ang imo mga asawa sa tawo nga indi liwan sa imo, kag magapakighilawas siya sa ila sing hayag.
Ang imo ginhimo nga malain ginhimo mo sa tago, pero ang himuon ko sa imo ipakita ko sing hayag sa bilog nga Israel.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si David kay Natan, “Nakasala ako sa Ginoo Ginoo .” Nagsabat si Natan, “Ginpatawad ka na sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag indi ikaw mapatay.
Pero tungod nga ang imo ginhimo nakahatag sang kahigayunan sa mga kaaway sang Ginoo Ginoo nga yagutaon siya, sigurado gid nga mapatay ang imo anak.”
Sang nagpuli na si Natan, ginpamasakit sang Ginoo Ginoo ang anak ni David kay Batsheba.
Nagpakitluoy si David sa Dios para sa bata. Nagpuasa siya sa sulod sang iya kuwarto, kag sa salog siya nagatulog kada gab-i.
Ginkadtuan siya sang iya mga opisyal para pabangunon, pero indi gid siya, kag indi siya magkaon upod sa ila.
Sang ikapito nga adlaw, napatay ang bata. Nahadlok ang mga alagad ni David sa pagsugid sa iya nga patay na ang bata. Nagsiling sila, “Paano ta siya masugiran nga patay na ang bata? Wala gani siya magsapak sa pag-uloulo ta sa iya sang buhi pa ang bata, ano na gid ayhan karon nga patay na ang bata. Basi bala kon ano ang iya himuon nga malain.”
Natalupangdan ni David nga nagahinutikay ang iya mga alagad, gani nareyalisar niya nga patay na ang bata. Nagpamangkot siya, “Patay na bala ang bata?” Nagsabat sila, “Huo.”
Madamo gid ang mga karnero kag mga baka sang manggaranon,
Dayon nagbangon si David, nagpaligo, nagpamanyos sang mahamot nga lana sang mahamot nga lana kag nag-ilis. Nagkadto siya sa balay sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsimba. Dayon nagpuli siya kag nagpaserbi sang pagkaon, kag nagkaon siya.
Nagsiling ang iya mga alagad sa iya, “Indi ka namon maintiendihan. Sang buhi pa ang bata, nagpuasa ka kag naghibi, pero karon nga patay na ang bata, nagbangon ka kag nagkaon!”
Nagsabat si David, “Huo, nagpuasa ako kag naghibi sang buhi pa ang bata kay naghunahuna ako nga basi pa lang kaluoyan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kag indi niya pag-itugot nga mapatay ang bata.
Pero karon nga patay na siya, ngaa nga magpuasa pa ako? Mabuhi ko pa bala siya? Sa pila ka adlaw kon mapatay na ako, makadto ako sa iya, pero karon indi na siya makabalik sa akon.”
Dayon gin-uloulohan ni David ang iya asawa nga si Batsheba, kag naghulid sila. Nagbusong si Batsheba kag nagbata sang lalaki, kag gin-ngalanan nila siya nga Solomon. Palangga sang Ginoo Ginoo ang bata,
kag ginsugo niya si Propeta Natan nga ngalanan ang bata nga Jedidia
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagsalakay sila ni Joab sa Raba, ang kapital sang Ammon, kag halos naagaw na nila ini.
Nagpadala si Joab sang mga mensahero kay David sa pagsiling, “Ginsalakay namon ang Raba kag naagaw namon ang ila ginakuhaan sang tubig.
Karon tipuna ang nabilin nga mga soldado kag tapusa ang pag-agaw sa banwa para ikaw ang mapadunggan kag indi ako.”
Gani gintipon ni David ang nabilin nga mga soldado kag ginsalakay nila ang Raba, kag naagaw nila ini.
pero ang imol isa lang gid ang iya karnero nga iya pa ginbakal. Ginsagod niya ini, kag nagdako upod sa iya mga kabataan. Ginpakaon niya ini sang iya pagkaon, kag ginpainom sa iya mismo baso, kag iya pa ini ginkugos-kugos. Ginkabig niya ini nga daw iya anak nga babayi.
Ginkuha ni David ang bulawan nga korona sa ulo sang hari sang mga Ammonhon
Gin-ulipon niya ang mga pumuluyo sini kag ginpaobra nga gamit ang lagari, sadol, kag wasay. Ginpahimo man niya sila sang mga tisa.
Isa sina ka tion, may bisita ang manggaranon, pero indi niya gusto nga mag-ihaw sang iya karnero ukon baka para ipakaon sa iya bisita. Sa baylo ginkuha niya ang karnero sang imol nga tawo kag ginpaihaw ini para ipakaon sa iya bisita.”
Naakig gid si David sa tawo nga manggaranon kag nagsiling siya kay Natan, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga dapat patyon ang tawo nga naghimo sina.
Kag tungod nga wala siya sing kaluoy sa imol nga tawo, dapat ulian niya sang apat ka karnero ang isa ka karnero nga iya ginkuha.”
Dayon nagsiling si Natan kay David, “Ikaw ato nga tawo! Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: ‘Ginpili ko ikaw nga hari sang Israel kag ginluwas ko ikaw kay Saul.
Ginhatag ko sa imo ang iya ginharian kag ang iya mga asawa. Ginhimo ko ikaw nga hari sa bilog nga Israel kag Juda. Kag kon kulang pa ini, kuntani ginhatagan ko ikaw sang madamo pa.
Gani ngaa wala mo pagtumana ang akon pulong paagi sa paghimo sining malain nga butang sa akon panulok? Ginpapatay mo si Uria nga Hithanon sa inaway; ginpapatay mo siya sa mga Ammonhon, kag ginkuha mo pa ang iya asawa.
May guwapa nga anak si David nga ang iya ngalan si Tamar, kag utod siya ni Absalom. Karon, si Amnon nga utod ni Tamar sa amay naluyag sa iya.
Dayon nagsiling si Amnon kay Tamar, “Dal-a diri ang pagkaon sa akon kuwarto kag hungiti ako.” Gani gindala ni Tamar ang pagkaon kay Amnon.
Pero samtang ginahungitan niya si Amnon ginhakos siya ni Amnon kag ginsilingan nga maghulid sila.
Nagsiling si Tamar sa iya, “Indi ako pagpakahuy-i! Mag-utod kita! Indi paghimua ini nga kabuangan. Indi ini dapat matabo sa Israel.
Ano na lang nga guya ang ipakita ko sa mga tawo? Kag ikaw, kabigon ka nga isa ka buang-buang sa Israel. Estoryaha bala anay ang aton amay parte sini; sigurado nga tugutan niya ikaw sa pagpangasawa sa akon.”
Pero wala magpamati si Amnon sa iya, kag tungod nga mas makusog siya kay Tamar ginpakahuy-an niya siya paagi sa paglugos sa iya.
Dayon nangakig gid si Amnon sa iya, kag ang iya kaakig sobra pa sa iya paghigugma sa iya sang una. Nagsiling si Amnon sa iya, “Bangon ka kag magguwa!”
Nagsabat si Tamar, “Indi ako magguwa! Mas dako pa nga sala ang pagtabog mo sa akon sang sa imo ginhimo sa akon.” Pero wala magpamati si Amnon sa iya.
Sa baylo, gintawag niya ang iya personal nga suluguon kag ginsilingan, “Paguwaa ini nga babayi kag siraduhi dayon ang puwertahan.”
Gani ginpaguwa sang suluguon si Tamar kag ginsira ang puwertahan. Nagasuksok sadto si Tamar sang matahom kag malaba nga bayo
Ang ginhimo ni Tamar, gin-gisi niya ang iya matahom kag malaba nga bayo, kag nagbutang sang abo sa iya ulo. Dayon naglakat siya nga nagahilibion samtang ginatungtong niya ang iya mga kamot sa iya ulo sa dako nga kasubo sa dako nga kasubo .
Pero indi niya mahimo ang iya gusto nga himuon kay Tamar tungod nga dalaga si Tamar kag may nagabantay permi sa iya kag may nagabantay permi sa iya . Tungod sini naglalain siya hasta nga nagmasakit siya.
Nakita siya sang iya utod nga si Absalom kag ginpamangkot, “May malain bala nga ginhimo si Amnon sa imo? Indi ini pag-ipanugid sa iban, kay utod mo siya sa amay sa amay . Indi lang sagi isip ang natabo sa imo.” Kag didto na nag-estar si Tamar sa balay ni Absalom, pero permi lang siya nagaisahanon kag nagapangasubo.
Sang mahibaluan ni Haring David ang natabo, puwerte gid ang iya kaakig.
Kag bisan wala nagamuno si Absalom kay Amnon parte sa iya ginhimo, ginakaugtan niya siya tungod sa iya pagpakahuya kay Tamar nga iya utod.
Pagkaligad sang duha ka tuig, sang ginapaguntingan ni Absalom ang iya mga karnero sa Baal Hazor, malapit sa Efraim, gin-imbitar niya ang tanan nga anak sang hari sa pagtambong didto.
Nagkadto siya kay Haring David kag nagsiling, “Nagapagunting ako sang akon mga karnero. Makakadto ka bala kag ang imo mga opisyal sa sini nga okasyon?”
Nagsabat ang hari, “Indi na lang anak, kay magastuhan ka lang kon magtambong kami tanan.” Ginpilit gid siya ni Absalom, pero indi gid siya makadto. Ginbendisyunan lang niya si Absalom.
Nagsiling si Absalom, “Kon indi ka, si Amnon na lang nga akon utod ang pakadtua.” Nagpamangkot ang hari, “Ngaa nga gusto mo gid siya pakadtuon didto?”
Pero nagpamilit gid si Absalom, gani ginpaupod na lang ni David si Amnon, kag ang iban pa niya nga mga anak nga lalaki.
Nagsiling si Absalom sa iya mga tinawo, “Hulaton ninyo nga mahubog si Amnon, dayon pagsinyas ko, patyon ninyo siya. Indi kamo magkahadlok; ako ang nagsugo sa inyo. Magpakabakod kamo kag magpakaisog.”
Gani ginpatay sang mga tinawo ni Absalom si Amnon suno sa iya sugo. Nagsakay gilayon ang iban nga mga anak nga lalaki ni David sa ila mga kabayo
Karon may amigo si Amnon nga maayo gid magpadihot nga ang ngalan si Jonadab. Anak siya sang utod ni David nga si Shimea.
Samtang nagapapuli sila sa Jerusalem, may nakabalita kay David nga ginpamatay ni Absalom ang tanan niya nga anak nga lalaki kag wala gid sing may nabilin sa ila.
Nagtindog dayon si David kag gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo, sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo, kag naghapa siya sa duta. Gin-gisi man sang iya mga alagad ang ila mga bayo kag nagtindog lang sila didto.
Pero nagsiling si Jonadab nga anak sang utod ni David nga si Shimea, “Mahal nga Hari, wala napatay ang tanan mo nga anak nga lalaki kundi si Amnon lang. Dugay na nga gintuyo ni Absalom nga patyon si Amnon halin pa sang adlaw nga ginpakahuy-an niya ang iya utod nga si Tamar.
Indi ka magkabalaka sa balita nga ginpamatay ang tanan mo nga anak nga lalaki. Si Amnon lang ang ginpatay.
Karon, ang guwardya sa pader sang Jerusalem may nakita nga madamo nga tawo nga nagapadulong. Nagaagi sila sa dalan sa west, sa kilid dampi sang bukid. Nagkadto ang guwardya sa hari kag nagsiling, “May nakita ako nga mga tawo sa dalan sang Horonaim, sa kilid dampi sang bukid.”
Nagsiling dayon si Jonadab sa hari, “Mahal nga Hari, tan-awa! Ara na ang imo mga anak nga lalaki, pareho sang akon ginsiling.”
Pagkatapos gid niya hambal, nag-abot ang mga anak nga lalaki ni David nga nagahilibion. Nagahilibion man sing tudo si David kag ang tanan niya nga mga alagad.
Sang maumpawan na si Haring David sa iya kasubo sa pagkapatay ni Amnon, ginhidlaw siya kay Absalom.
Isa ka adlaw, Isa ka adlaw, nagpamangkot siya kay Amnon, “Anak ka sang hari, pero ngaa kada adlaw permi ko ikaw makita nga nagapaluya? Sugiri abi ako sang imo problema.” Nagsiling si Amnon sa iya, “Naluyag ako kay Tamar, ang utod ni Absalom nga akon utod sa amay sa amay .”
Nagsiling si Jonadab, “Maghigda ka, kag magpamulomasakit. Kon magbisita gani ang imo amay sa imo, silingon mo siya nga tugutan niya si Tamar nga magkadto sa imo sa pagpakaon sa imo. Silingon mo man siya nga gusto mo makita si Tamar nga nagapreparar sang pagkaon sa imo tupad kag gusto mo nga siya gid ang maghungit sa imo.”
Gani naghigda si Amnon kag nagpamulomasakit. Sang magbisita sa iya si Haring David, nagsiling siya, “Gusto ko nga magkadto diri ang akon utod nga si Tamar kag maghimo sang tinapay samtang nagatan-aw ako, kag pagkatapos hungitan niya ako.”
Gani nagpasugo si David nga hambalon si Tamar sa palasyo nga magkadto siya sa iya utod nga si Amnon kag magpreparar sang pagkaon para sa iya.
Nagkadto si Tamar sa balay sang iya utod nga si Amnon, kag nakita niya siya nga nagahigda. Nagkuha siya sang harina, ginmasa ini, kag ginluto ang tinapay samtang nagatan-aw si Amnon.
Pagkaluto, ginkuha niya ini para ipakaon kay Amnon, pero indi magkaon si Amnon. Nagsiling si Amnon, “Paguwaa ang tanan nga tawo diri!” Gani nagguwa ang mga tawo.
Nahibaluan ni Joab nga anak ni Zeruya nga nahidlaw si Haring David kay Absalom.
Nagsabat ang hari, “Kon may magreklamo sa imo, dal-a siya sa akon, kag siguraduhon ko nga indi na siya magreklamo liwat.”
Dayon nagsiling ang babayi, “Mahal nga Hari, kon mahimo magsumpa ka sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios nga indi mo pagtugutan nga may magbalos sa akon anak para indi siya mapatay kag para indi na maglain pa ang hitabo.” Nagsabat si Haring David, “Ginasumpa ko sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga indi gid maano ang imo anak.”
Dayon nagsiling ang babayi, “Mahal nga Hari, may isa pa ako nga ipangabay sa imo.” Nagsabat ang hari, “Sige, ano ina?”
Nagsiling ang babayi, “Indi bala nga sala mo ina sa katawhan sang Dios nga protektaran mo ang akon anak pero ang imo anak ya nga gintabog indi mo pagpabalikon?
Ang tanan nga tawo mapatay, pareho sa tubig nga naula sa duta nga indi na matipon liwat. Pero indi lang basta-basta nga ginakuha sang Dios ang kabuhi sang tawo; ginatinguhaan niya pa gani nga mapabalik sa iya ang mga tawo nga nagpalayo sa iya.
“Mahal nga Hari, nagkadto ako diri sa pagsugid sang akon problema tungod nga nahadlok ako sa himuon sang akon mga paryente. Naghunahuna ako nga magpakig-estorya sa imo kay basi pa lang nga himuon mo ang akon pangabay sa imo
nga luwason ako kag ang akon anak sa mga tawo nga nagatinguha sa pagkuha sang duta nga ginhatag sang Dios sa amon.
Karon ang imo desisyon nakahatag sa akon sang kalinong kay pareho ka sa anghel sang Dios nga nakahibalo kon ano ang maayo kag malain. Kabay pa nga updan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios.”
Dayon nagsiling ang hari sa babayi, “Sugiri ako sang matuod sa akon ipamangkot sa imo.” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Sige, Mahal nga Hari.”
Nagpamangkot ang hari, “Si Joab bala ang nagtudlo sa imo sini?” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Indi gid ako makabalibad sa pagsabat sa imo pamangkot, Mahal nga Hari. Huo, si Joab nga imo alagad ang nagsugo sa akon sa paghimo sini kag siya ang nagtudlo kon ano ang akon ihambal.
Gani nagpatawag siya sang isa ka maalamon nga babayi sa Tekoa. Pag-abot sang babayi, nagsiling si Joab sa iya, “Magpakuno-kuno ka nga nagapangasubo ka sa patay. Magsul-ob ka sang bayo nga ginasul-ob sang nagapangasubo, kag indi ka magpatahom kundi magginawi ka pareho sa isa ka babayi nga nagapangasubo sa patay sa malawig na nga tion.
Ginhimo niya ini para magmaayo na ang inyo relasyon ni Absalom. Pero naintiendihan mo ini, Mahal nga Hari, kay pareho ka sa anghel sang Dios—nahibaluan mo ang tanan nga nagakatabo sa aton nasyon.”
Gani ginpatawag sang hari si Joab kag ginsilingan, “Sige, lakat kag dal-a pabalik diri ang bataon pa nga si Absalom.”
Nagluhod dayon si Joab bilang pagtahod sa hari kag nagsiling, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo , Mahal nga Hari. Karon nahibaluan ko nga nalipay ka sa akon tungod kay gintuman mo ang akon pangabay.”
Dayon naglakat si Joab sa Geshur kag gindala pabalik si Absalom sa Jerusalem.
Pero nagmando ang hari, “Papulia ninyo siya sa iya balay; indi ko gusto nga makita siya diri sa palasyo.” Gani nagpuli si Absalom sa iya kaugalingon nga balay kag wala siya magpakita sa hari.
Wala sing pareho ka guwapo kay Absalom sa bilog nga Israel, gani ginadayaw gid siya sang tanan. Wala gid siya sing deperensya halin sa ulo hasta sa dapadapa.
Kaisa lang siya magpagunting kada tuig, kag nagapagunting siya tungod kay nabug-atan siya sa iya buhok. Kon kiluhon ang iya buhok nagabug-at ini sing mga duha ka kilo suno sa kilohan sang hari.
May mga anak si Absalom nga tatlo ka lalaki kag isa ka babayi. Ang ngalan sang babayi si Tamar, kag guwapa gid siya.
Nag-estar si Absalom sa Jerusalem sa sulod sang duha ka tuig nga wala gid niya makita ang hari.
Isa ka tion, ginpatawag ni Absalom si Joab sa pagpangabay sa iya nga magpakig-estorya siya sa hari para sa iya. Pero wala si Joab magkadto kay Absalom. Gani ginpatawag niya liwat si Joab, pero wala man gihapon siya magkadto.
Dayon magkadto ka sa hari kag ihambal mo sa iya ang isiling ko sa imo.” Dayon ginsiling ni Joab sa iya ang ihambal niya sa hari.
Nagsiling dayon si Absalom sa iya mga suluguon, “Sunuga ninyo ang uma ni Joab nga natamnan sang barley. Tupad lang ini sang akon uma.” Gani ginsunog nila ang uma ni Joab.
Nagkadto si Joab kay Absalom kag nagsiling sa iya, “Ngaa ginsunog sang imo mga suluguon ang akon uma?”
Nagsabat si Absalom, “Tungod wala ka magkadto diri sang ginpatawag ko ikaw. Gusto ko kuntani nga magkadto ka sa hari sa pagpamangkot sa iya kon ngaa nga ginpakuha pa niya ako sa Geshur. Mas maayo pa nga nagpabilin na lang ako didto. Karon, gusto ko nga makita ang hari; kon nakasala ako, ipapatay niya ako.”
Gani nagkadto si Joab sa hari, kag ginsugid niya ang ginsiling ni Absalom. Dayon ginpatawag sang hari si Absalom, kag pag-abot niya, nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod sa hari. Dayon ginhalukan siya sang hari.
Pag-abot sang babayi sa hari, nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod kag nagsiling, “Buligi ako, Mahal nga Hari!”
Nagpamangkot ang hari sa iya, “Ano bala ang problema mo?” Nagsabat siya, “Isa ako ka balo,
kag may duha ka anak nga lalaki. Isa ka adlaw nag-inaway sila nga duha sa uma, kag tungod nga wala didto sang may nagtambag sa ila, ang isa sa ila napatay.
Karon, nagkadto sa akon ang tanan ko nga paryente kag nagsiling, ‘Itugyan sa amon ang imo anak, kay patyon namon siya sa iya pagpatay sa iya utod. Indi siya takos nga magpanubli sang pagkabutang sang iya amay.’ Kon himuon nila ini, madula ang nabilin ko nga anak nga amo na lang ang akon ginalauman nga magbulig sa akon, kag madula na ang ngalan sang akon bana sa sini nga kalibutan.”
Nagsiling ang hari sa babayi, “Pauli ka kay ako ang bahala. Magamando ako nga indi nila pag-anhon ang imo anak.”
Nagsiling ang babayi, “Mahal nga Hari, kon may mag-akusar sa imo parte sa pagbulig mo sa akon, ako kag ang akon pamilya ang magapanabat kag indi ikaw.”
Sang ulihi nakaangkon si Absalom sang karwahe kag mga kabayo, kag 50 ka tawo nga iya badigard.
Pero sang didto si Absalom sa Hebron, sekreto siya nga nagpadala sang mga mensahero sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel sa pagsiling, “Kon mabatian ninyo ang tunog sang budyong, singgit kamo, ‘Si Absalom na ang hari sang Israel, kag didto siya nagahari sang Israel, kag didto siya nagahari sa Hebron!’ ”
200 ka tawo sa Jerusalem ang ginpanghagad ni Absalom nga mag-upod sa iya sa Hebron. Ini nga mga tawo wala kahibalo sang plano ni Absalom.
Samtang nagahalad si Absalom sang mga halad, ginpatawag niya si Ahitofel sa banwa sang Gilo. Ining si Ahitofel taga-Gilo mismo, kag isa siya sang mga manuglaygay ni David. Sang ulihi nagdamo pa gid ang nagsunod kay Absalom, gani nagbakod pa gid ang iya nga plano sa pagrebelde kay David.
May isa ka mensahero nga nagsugid kay David nga ang mga Israelinhon nagbuylog na kay Absalom.
Gani nagsiling si David sa tanan niya nga opisyal nga kaupod niya didto sa Jerusalem, “Dali, malagyo kita gilayon, kay basi magsalakay gulpi si Absalom kag maabtan niya kita diri kag pamatyon niya kita kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem. Dalia ninyo, kon gusto ninyo nga makaluwas kay Absalom!”
Nagsiling ang mga opisyal, “Mahal nga Hari, handa kami sa paghimo sang bisan ano nga imo isiling.”
Gani naglakat si David upod ang iya bilog nga panimalay, pero ginbilin niya ang napulo sa iya mga asawa nga suluguon sa pag-atipan sang palasyo.
Sang nagalakat na si David kag ang iya mga tinawo, nagpundo sila sa katapusan nga balay sang siyudad,
kag ginpauna ni David ang tanan niya nga tinawo, pati na ang tanan niya nga badigard niya nga badigard nga mga Keretnon kag mga Peletnon. Nagsunod man ang 600 ka Gitanhon nga nag-upod sa iya halin sa Gat.
Nagsiling si David kay Itai, nga pangulo sang mga pangulo sang mga Gitanhon, “Ngaa nga maupod kamo sa amon? Balik kamo sa Jerusalem, kag mag-upod sa bag-o nga bag-o nga hari nga si Absalom nga si Absalom , kay mga pangayaw lang kamo sa Israel nga nagpalagyo halin sa inyo lugar.
Aga pa siya nagabugtaw kada adlaw kag nagatindog sa higad sang dalan nga pakadto sa puwertahan sang siyudad. Kon may mag-abot nga tawo nga may kaso nga gusto ipahusay sa hari, ginapamangkot niya kon taga-diin siya, kag nagasugid ang tawo kon ano siya nga tribo sang Israel.
Wala pa lang kamo dugay nga nag-abot diri, kag karon maupod kamo sa amon nga wala gani kami kahibalo kon diin kami makadto? Balik kamo sang imo mga kasimanwa, kag kabay pa nga ipakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya gugma kag katutom sa inyo.”
Pero nagsabat si Itai sa hari, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo kag sa imo, Mahal nga Hari, nga maupod kami sa imo bisan diin ka makadto, bisan kamatayon pa ang amon dangatan.”
Nagsiling si David sa iya, “Kon amo, sige, upod kamo sa amon.” Gani naglakat si Itai kag ang tanan niya nga mga tinawo, kag ang ila mga pamilya.
Puwerte gid ang paghinibi sang mga tawo sa Jerusalem sang nagaagi ang mga tinawo ni David. Nagtabok si David sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig kaupod ang iya mga tinawo pakadto sa kamingawan.
Didto man ang mga pari nga sila ni Zadok kag Abiatar, kag ang mga Levita nga nagadala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Dios. Ginbutang nila ang Kahon sa higad sang dalan sa higad sang dalan kag naghalad si Abiatar hasta nga nakahalin ang tanan nga tinawo ni David sa siyudad.
Dayon nagsiling si David kay Zadok, “Ibalik ang Kahon sang Dios sa Jerusalem. Kon nalipay ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, pabalikon niya ako sa Jerusalem kag makita ko ini liwat kag ang lugar nga iya nabutangan.
Pero kon wala siya nalipay sa akon, handa ako kon ano man ang iya gusto himuon sa akon.”
Nagsiling pa gid si David kay Zadok nga pari, “Magbalik kamo ni Abiatar sing malinong sa Jerusalem, kaupod ang imo anak nga si Ahimaaz kag ang anak ni Abiatar nga si Jonatan, kag magpanilag kamo didto.
Mahulat ako sa talabukan sang suba sa kamingawan hasta nga makabaton ako sang balita halin sa inyo.”
Gani ginbalik ni Zadok kag ni Abiatar ang Kahon sang Dios sa Jerusalem, kag nagtiner sila didto.
Dayon nagasiling si Absalom sa iya, “Madaog kuntani ang imo kaso, ugaling wala sing representante ang hari sa pagpamati sang imo kaso.
Nagtaklad si David sa Bukid sang mga Olibo. Nagtiniil lang siya kag ginatabunan niya ang iya ulo samtang nagahilibion siya. Nagahilibion man ang iya mga kaupod kag ginatabunan man nila ang ila mga ulo.
Karon may nagsugid kay David nga si Ahitofel isa sa mga nagabuylog kay Absalom. Gani nagpangamuyo si David, “ Ginoo Ginoo , himua nga wala sing pulos ang laygay ni Ahitofel.”
Sang makaabot sila ni David sa ibabaw sang Bukid sang mga Olibo, nga sa diin ginasimbahan sang mga tawo sa Dios, ginsugata siya ni Hushai nga Arkhanon. Gisi ang iya bayo kag yab-ukon ang iya ulo nga nagapakita nga nagapangasubo siya nga nagapakita nga nagapangasubo siya .
Nagsiling si David sa iya, “Wala ka sing may mabulig kon mag-upod ka sa akon.
Pero kon magbalik ka sa siyudad kag hambalon mo si Absalom nga mag-alagad ka sa iya, subong nga nag-alagad ka sa akon, mabuligan mo pa ako paagi sa pagpamalabag sa laygay ni Ahitofel.
Ato didto si Zadok kag si Abiatar nga mga pari. Sugiri sila sang tanan nga mabatian mo sa palasyo sang hari.
Pakadtua dayon diri sa akon ang anak ni Zadok nga si Ahimaaz kag ang anak ni Abiatar nga si Jonatan sa pagbalita sang imo mabatian.”
Gani nagbalik si Hushai nga amigo ni David sa Jerusalem. Natabuan sadto nga nagapasulod si Absalom sa siyudad.
Kon ako lang kuntani ang manughukom, makapalapit sa akon ang kada tawo nga may reklamo ukon kaso, kag siguraduhon ko nga mahatagan gid siya sang hustisya.”
Kag kon magpalapit ang tawo sa iya kag magluhod bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod sa iya, ginahakos niya ini kag ginahalukan bilang pag-abiabi bilang pag-abiabi .
Amo ini ang ginahimo ni Absalom sa tanan nga Israelinhon nga nagakadto sa hari sa pagpahusay sang ila kaso. Gani nadala niya ang mga Israelinhon.
Pagkaligad sang apat ka tuig,
Sang didto pa ako nagaestar sa Geshur nga sakop sang Aram, nagpromisa ako nga kon pabalikon ako liwat sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem, magasimba ako sa iya sa Hebron.”
Nagsiling ang hari sa iya, “Sige, maayo lang nga paglakat.” Gani nagkadto si Absalom sa Hebron.
Sang makalampuwas lang si David sa ibabaw sang bukid, ginsugata siya ni Ziba nga suluguon ni Mefiboshet. May duha siya ka donkey nga may karga nga 200 ka tinapay, 100 ka hakop sang pasas, 100 ka luto nga prutas,
Pero nagsiling ang hari, “Kamo nga mga anak ni Zeruya, ano ang inyo labot? Kon ginsugo siya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga pakamalauton ako, sin-o ako nga magpugong sa iya?”
Nagsiling dayon si David kay Abishai kag sa tanan niya nga opisyal, “Kon ang anak ko mismo nagatinguha sa pagpatay sa akon, ano pa gid ayhan ining paryente ni Saul?
Basi pa lang makita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang akon kalisod, kag balusan niya ako sang pagpakamaayo sa baylo sang pagpakamalaot nga nabaton ko subong.”
Gani nagpadayon si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa paglakat. Sige man ang sunod ni Shimei sa ila, pero sa kilid lang siya sang bukid nag-agi. Samtang nagalakat siya ginapakamalaot niya si David kag ginahabuyan sang bato kag duta.
Kinapoy gid si David kag ang tanan niya nga tinawo, gani nagpahuway-huway sila pag-abot nila sa Suba sang Jordan.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nag-abot sa Jerusalem si Absalom, si Ahitofel, kag ang iban pa nga mga Israelinhon.
Nag-abot man didto si Hushai nga Arkhanon, nga amigo ni David, kag nagkadto siya kay Absalom kag nagsiling sa iya, “Mabuhay ang hari! Mabuhay ang hari!”
Ginpamangkot ni Absalom si Hushai, “Diin na ang imo pag-unong sa imo amigo? Ngaa wala ka mag-upod sa iya?”
Nagsabat si Hushai, “Indi puwede! Sa imo ako maupod kay ikaw ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang bilog nga katawhan sang Israel nga mangin hari.
Luwas sina, sin-o pa abi ang alagaran ko kundi ikaw nga ikaw nga anak ni David? Subong nga nag-alagad ako sa imo amay, magaalagad man ako sa imo.”
Ginpamangkot ni David si Ziba, “Ngaa nagdala ka sina?” Nagsabat si Ziba, “Ang mga donkey para sakyan sang imo pamilya, ang mga tinapay kag mga prutas para kaunon ninyo sang imo mga kaupod, kag ang bino imnon ninyo kon kapuyon kamo sa kamingawan.”
Karon, nagsiling si Absalom kay Ahitofel, “Ano ang malaygay mo? Sugiri ako kon ano ang himuon ta.”
Nagsabat si Ahitofel, “Maghulid ka sa mga asawa sang imo amay nga iya ginbilin sa pag-atipan sang palasyo. Dayon mahibaluan sang tanan nga Israelinhon nga ginpaakig mo gid ang imo amay, kag tungod sini mangisog pa gid ang imo mga tinawo.”
Gani nagpatindog sila sang tolda para kay Absalom sa atop sang palasyo, kag makita sang bilog nga Israel nga nagasulod siya didto sa paghulid sa mga asawa sang iya amay.
Sadto nga panahon nagasunod gid si Absalom sa mga laygay ni Ahitofel, pareho sang ginhimo ni David. Kay ang pagkabig nila sa laygay ni Ahitofel pareho nga naghalin sa Dios.
Nagpamangkot si David, “Diin na si Mefiboshet, si Mefiboshet, ang apo sang imo agalon nga si Saul?” Nagsabat si Ziba, “Nagpabilin siya sa Jerusalem, tungod nagahunahuna siya nga paharion siya sang katawhan sang Israel sa sini nga tion sa ginharian sang iya lolo.”
Nagsiling si David, “Kon amo sina, ginahatag ko sa imo subong ang tanan nga ginapanag-iyahan ni Mefiboshet.” Nagsiling si Ziba, “Mahal nga Hari, handa ako sa pag-alagad sa imo. Kabay pa nga malipay ka sa akon.”
Sang manug-abot na si Haring David sa Bahurim, may tawo nga nagguwa sa sina nga banwa kag ginapakamalaot niya si David. Ini nga tawo amo si Shimei nga anak ni Gera kag paryente ni Saul.
Ginbato niya si David kag ang iya mga opisyal bisan pa nga ginalibutan si David sang iya mga tinawo kag mga badigard.
Amo ini ang iya pakamalaot kay David: “Indi ka magsulod sa amon banwa, ikaw nga manugpatay kag malain nga tawo!
Ginabalusan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo pagpatay kay Saul kag sa iya panimalay. Gin-agaw mo ang iya ginharian, pero karon ginhatag ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo anak nga si Absalom. Nalaglag ka tungod sa imo pagpamatay.”
Nagsiling sa hari si Abishai nga anak ni Zeruya, “Mahal nga Hari, ngaa bala nga ginapabay-an mo lang nga pakamalauton ka sang sina nga tawo nga pareho man lang sa patay nga ido? Tuguti ako nga utdan siya sang ulo.”
Karon nagsiling si Ahitofel kay Absalom, “Tuguti ako nga magpili
Dayon bisan ang pinakamaisog mo nga mga soldado, nga daw pareho kaisog sa leon, mahadlok. Kay nahibaluan sang tanan nga Israelinhon nga ang imo amay eksperiensyado nga mangangaway kag maisog ang iya mga tinawo.
Gani ginalaygayan ko ikaw nga tipuna gid ang tanan nga Israelinhon halin sa Dan hasta sa Beersheba,
Dayon pangitaon ta si David bisan diin man siya, kag likupan naton siya pareho sa tun-og nga nagalikop sa duta; kag siya kag ang iya mga tinawo maubos kalamatay.
Kon magpalagyo siya sa isa ka banwa, higtan ta ang mga pader sini kag butungon pakadto sa ililigan sang tubig hasta nga marumpag ini kag wala na sing bato sini nga mabilin.”
Nagsiling si Absalom kag ang tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel, “Mas maayo ang laygay ni Hushai nga Arkhanon sang sa kay Ahitofel.” Ang matuod, mas Ang matuod, mas maayo ang laygay ni Ahitofel, pero ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi ini pagsundon ni Absalom para malaglag siya.
Ginsugiran ni Hushai ang mga pari nga sila ni Zadok kag Abiatar parte sa ginlaygay ni Ahitofel kay Absalom kag sa mga manugdumala sang Israel, kag parte man sa iya nga ginlaygay.
Dayon nagsiling siya sa ila, “Pahibalua gilayon si David nga indi siya magpabilin sa talabukan sang Suba sang Jordan sang Suba sang Jordan sa kamingawan karon nga gab-i, kundi magtabok sila dayon sa suba sa suba para indi sila tanan magkalamatay.”
Sadto nga tion, nagahulat si Jonatan nga anak ni Abiatar nga anak ni Abiatar kag si Ahimaaz nga anak ni Zadok nga anak ni Zadok sa En Rogel, kay indi sila gusto nga makita nga nagaguwa-pasulod sa Jerusalem. Ginapakadto lang nila ang isa ka ulipon nga babayi sa pagsugid sa ila sang nagakatabo, kag ginasugid dayon nila ini kay David.
Pero karon, may nakakita sa ila nga isa ka pamatan-on nga lalaki, kag ginsugid sila kay Absalom. Gani nagdali-dali sila halin nga duha, kag nagkadto sa balay sang isa ka tawo sa Bahurim. Ini nga tawo may bubon sa iya ugsaran, kag nagpanaog sila ni Jonatan kag Ahimaaz sa sini nga bubon.
Nagkuha sang tabon ang asawa sang tawo kag gintabunan niya ang bubon kag ginbularan dayon sang mga uyas para wala sing may makahunahuna nga may nagapanago didto.
Salakayon namon siya samtang ginakapoy siya kag ginaluyahan. Magasalasala siya kag magapalagyo ang tanan niya nga tinawo. Si David lang ang patyon ko,
Sang magkadto ang mga tinawo ni Absalom sa balay sang tawo, ginpamangkot nila ang iya asawa, “Nakita bala ninyo si Ahimaaz kag si Jonatan?” Nagsabat ang asawa, “Nagtabok sila sa suba.” Ginpangita nila sila pero wala nila makita, gani nagbalik na lang sila sa Jerusalem.
Sang makahalin na ang mga tinawo ni Absalom, nagguwa dayon si Jonatan kag si Ahimaaz sa bubon kag nagkadto kay David kag nagsiling, “Magtabok kamo gilayon sa suba, kay naglaygay si Ahitofel nga patyon ka.”
Gani nagtabok si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, kag sang kaagahon didto na sila tanan sa tabok.
Sang mahibaluan ni Ahitofel nga wala ginsunod ang iya laygay, nagsakay siya sa iya donkey kag nagpuli sa iya banwa. Nagpamilin-bilin siya sa iya panimalay kag dayon naghikog siya paagi sa pagbitay sang iya kaugalingon. Ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan man sang iya amay.
Nakaabot na sila ni David sa Mahanaim sang magtabok si Absalom kag ang tanan niya nga tinawo sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Ginpili ni Absalom si Amasa sa pagbulos kay Joab bilang kumander sang mga soldado. Ining si Amasa anak ni Jeter nga Ishmaelinhon.
Nagkampo si Absalom kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Gilead.
Sang pag-abot nila ni David sa Mahanaim, gin-abiabi sila ni gin-abiabi sila ni Shobi nga anak ni Nahash nga Ammonhon, nga taga-Raba, ni Makir nga anak ni Amiel, nga taga-Lo Debar, kag ni Barzilai nga Gileadnon, nga taga-Rogelim.
May mga dala sila nga mga hiligdaan, yahong, kolon, trigo, barley, harina, sinanlag nga mga uyas, mga liso nga ulutanon, balatong,
honey, mantikilya, karnero, kag keso. Ginhatag nila ini kay David kag sa iya mga tinawo, kay nahibaluan nila nga gutom, kapoy, kag uhaw gid sila sa ila nga pagpanglakaton sa ila nga pagpanglakaton sa desierto.
kag pabalikon ko sa imo ang tanan niya nga tinawo pareho sang pagbalik sang asawa sa iya bana.
Ini nga plano daw maayo man para kay Absalom kag sa tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel.
Pero nagsiling si Absalom, “Tawgon ta man si Hushai nga Arkhanon, para mabatian ta man kon ano ang iya masiling.”
Gani sang mag-abot si Hushai ginsugid sa iya ni Absalom ang ginlaygay ni Ahitofel. Nagsiling dayon si Absalom, “Himuon ta bala ang iya ginsiling? Kon indi, ano ang himuon ta?”
Nagsabat si Hushai kay Absalom, “Sa karon, ang ginlaygay ni Ahitofel indi maayo.
Kilala mo ang imo amay kag ang iya mga tinawo; mga maisog sila nga mangangaway kag mabangis sila pareho sa bear nga gin-agawan sang mga bata. Luwas pa sina, ang imo amay eksperiensyado nga mangangaway, kag wala siya nagaupod tulog sa iya mga tinawo.
Ayhan sa sini nga tion nagapanago siya sa kuweba ukon sa iban nga lugar. Kon sa nahauna ninyo nga inaway magakalamatay ang iban mo nga mga soldado, ang makabati sini magasiling nga napierdi na ang imo mga soldado.
Gin-grupo ni David ang iya mga tinawo sa tag-1,000 kag tag-100, kag nagpili siya sang mga kumander sa pagpangulo sini.
Sang makita ini sang isa sa mga tinawo ni David ni David , nagkadto siya kay Joab kag nagsiling, “Nakita ko si Absalom nga nagakabit sa kahoy nga terebinto.”
Nagsiling si Joab sa iya, “Ano? Nakita mo siya? Ngaa wala mo siya pagpatya? Kon ginpatay mo siya, kuntani ginpremyuhan ko ikaw sang napulo ka pilak kag pang-opisyal nga paha.”
Pero nagsabat ang tawo, “Bisan hatagan mo pa ako sang 1,000 ka pilak indi ko pagpatyon ang anak sang hari. Nabatian namon ang ginmando sang hari sa imo, kay Abishai, kag kay Itai, nga indi ninyo pag-anhon ang bataon nga si Absalom tungod sa iya.
Kon ginbutang ko sa peligro ang akon kabuhi sa pagpatay kay Absalom, sigurado mahibaluan ini sang hari, kag indi mo man ako pag-apinan.”
Nagsiling si Joab, “Nagausik lang ako sang tiyempo sa imo!” Dayon nagkuha si Joab sang tatlo ka bangkaw kag nagkadto didto kay Absalom nga buhi pa nga nagakabit sa kahoy nga terebinto. Dayon ginbuno niya sa dughan si Absalom.
Ginlibutan pa gid si Absalom sang napulo ka manugdala sang armas ni Joab, kag ginpatay siya.
Dayon ginpatunog ni Joab ang budyong sa pagpauntat sa iya mga tinawo sa paglagas sa mga soldado sang Israel.
Ginkuha nila ang bangkay ni Absalom kag ginhulog sa madalom nga buho didto sa kagulangan kag gintampukan sang madamo gid nga mga bato. Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpalalagyo puli ang tanan nga soldado sang Israel.
Sang buhi pa si Absalom nagpatindog siya sang monumento para sa iya kaugalingon sa Kapatagan sang Hari, kay wala siya sing anak nga lalaki nga magadala sang iya ngalan. Gin-ngalanan niya ato nga “Monumento ni Absalom,” kag amo gihapon ang ngalan sini hasta subong.
Karon, si Ahimaaz nga anak ni Zadok nagsiling kay Joab, kay Joab, “Tuguti ako nga magkadto kay David sa pagbalita sa iya nga ginluwas siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kamot sang iya mga kaaway.”
Dayon ginpalakat niya sila sa tatlo ka grupo. Si Joab ang pangulo sa isa ka grupo, si Abishai naman nga utod ni Joab ang sa isa ka grupo, kag si Itai nga taga-Gat ang sa isa pa ka grupo. Nagsiling si Haring David sa ila, “Ako mismo magaupod gid sa inyo sa pagpakig-away.”
Nagsiling si Joab, “Indi ikaw ang magbalita sa hari subong nga adlaw. Puwede ka makabalita sa iban nga adlaw pero indi subong, tungod kay napatay ang anak sang hari.”
Dayon nagsiling si Joab sa isa ka tawo nga taga-Ethiopia,
Nagsiling liwat si Ahimaaz kay Joab, “Bisan ano ang matabo, tuguti ako nga magsunod sa tawo nga taga-Ethiopia.” Nagsiling si Joab, “Toto, ngaa gusto mo gid nga maglakat? Wala ka man sang may makuha nga premyo sa imo pagbalita.”
Nagsiling siya, “Bisan ano ang matabo, malakat ako.” Gani nagsiling si Joab sa iya, “Sige, lakat!” Gani nagdalagan si Ahimaaz, kag nagpanglaktod siya sa kapatagan sang Jordan, sang Jordan, kag naunahan niya ang tawo nga taga-Ethiopia.
Samtang nagapungko si David sa tunga sang duha ka puwertahan nga ara sa guwa kag sa sulod nga parte sang pader sang banwa nga ara sa guwa kag sa sulod nga parte sang pader sang banwa , nagsaka sa pader ang manugbantay sang banwa kag nagtindog sa atop sang puwertahan sang banwa. Samtang nagapanan-aw tan-aw siya, may nakita siya nga isa ka tawo nga nagadalagan.
Nagsinggit siya kay David sa idalom sa idalom nga may tawo nga nagapadulong. Nagsiling si David, “Kon isa lang siya may dala siya siguro nga balita.” Samtang nagapalapit nga nagapalapit ang tawo,
may nakita pa gid ang manugbantay nga isa pa ka tawo nga nagadalagan man. Nagsinggit siya sa idalom nga may isa pa gid nga nagapadulong. Nagsiling ang hari, “May dala man siya siguro nga balita.”
Nagsiling ang manugbantay, “Ang una nga nagadalagan daw si Ahimaaz nga anak ni Zadok.” Nagsiling ang hari, “Maayo siya nga tawo. May dala siya siguro nga maayo nga balita.”
Pag-abot ni Ahimaaz, nagpangamusta siya sa hari kag nagluhod sa iya bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod . Dayon nagsiling siya, “Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, Mahal nga Hari! Ginpadaog niya ikaw sa mga tawo nga nagrebelde sa imo.”
Nagpamangkot ang hari, “Kamusta ang bataon pa nga si Absalom? Wala bala siya maano?” Nagsabat si Ahimaaz, “Sang ginpatawag ako ni Joab nga imo alagad, nakita ko nga nagagirinual ang mga tawo pero wala ako kahibalo kon ano ato.”
Pero nagsiling ang iya mga tinawo, “Indi ka dapat mag-upod sa amon. Wala sing kaso sa mga kaaway kon magpalagyo kami, ukon mapatay man ang katunga sa amon. Mas gusto pa nila nga ikaw ang mapatay sang sa mapatay ang 10,000 sa amon. Gani maayo pa nga magpabilin ka lang diri sa banwa kag magpadala sang bulig sa amon kon kinahanglan namon.”
Nagsiling ang hari, “Dira ka lang anay.” Gani nagtindog siya sa higad.
Dugay-dugay nag-abot ang tawo nga taga-Ethiopia kag nagsiling, “Mahal nga Hari, may maayo ako nga balita. Ginluwas ka sang Ginoo Ginoo subong nga adlaw sa tanan nga nagrebelde sa imo.”
Nagpamangkot ang hari sa iya, “Kamusta ang bataon pa nga si Absalom? Wala bala siya maano?” Nagsabat ang tawo, “Kabay pa nga ang natabo sa iya, matabo man sa tanan mo nga kaaway, Mahal nga Hari.”
Nagpalangurog si David. Nagsaka siya sa kuwarto sa ibabaw sang puwertahan sang banwa kag naghilibion. Samtang nagapasaka siya, nagsiling siya, “O Absalom, anak ko, ako na lang kuntani ang napatay sa baylo mo. O Absalom, anak ko, anak ko!”
Nagsabat si Haring David David , “Himuon ko kon ano ang maayo para sa inyo.” Nagtindog si Haring David David sa kilid sang puwertahan sang banwa sang banwa samtang nagapaguwa ang tanan niya nga tinawo nga nagagrupo sa tag-1,000 kag tag-100.
Nagmando si Haring David David kay Joab, Abishai kag kay Itai, “Tungod sa akon indi ninyo pag-anha ang bataon pa nga si Absalom.” Nabatian sang tanan nga grupo ang ginmando ni David sa iya mga kumander.
Naglakat ang mga soldado ni David ni David sa pagpakig-away sa mga soldado sang mga soldado sang Israel, kag didto sila nag-inaway sa kagulangan sang Efraim.
Napierdi ang mga soldado sang Israel sa mga soldado ni David. Madamo gid ang mga nagkalamatay sa sina nga adlaw—20,000 ka tawo.
Naglapta ang inaway sa bilog nga kagulangan, kag madamo pa ang napatay tungod sa peligro sang kagulangan sang sa napatay paagi sa espada.
Sang tion sang inaway, nasugata ni Absalom ang mga tinawo ni David, kag nagpalagyo siya nga nagasakay sa kabayo.
May nagsugid kay Joab nga nagahilibion ang hari kag nagapangasubo tungod kay Absalom.
Karon, si Absalom nga aton ginpili nga magpangulo sa aton napatay sa inaway. Ngaa indi kita magpangita sang paagi nga mapabalik ta si David bilang hari?”
Kag ihambal man ninyo ini kay Amasa, ‘Tungod kay kadugo ko ikaw, himuon ko ikaw nga kumander sang akon mga soldado sa baylo ni Joab. Kon indi ko paghimuon ini, kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios sing puwerte gid.’ ”
Nakombinsi ni David ang tanan nga taga-Juda kag nag-isa sila sa ila desisyon. Nagpadala sila sang mensahi kay David nga nagasiling, “Magbalik ka na diri sa amon kag ang tanan mo nga tinawo.”
Samtang nagapabalik si David, ginsugata siya sang mga tawo sang Juda didto sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Ini nga mga tawo nagtipon sa Gilgal sa pagbulig kay David sa pagtabok sa suba.
Nagdali-dali man upod sa pagsugata kay David si Shimei nga anak ni Gera, nga isa ka Benjaminhon halin sa Bahurim.
May upod siya nga 1,000 ka Benjaminhon, lakip na diri si Ziba nga alagad sang pamilya ni Saul, kag ang iya 15 ka anak nga lalaki kag 20 ka suluguon. Nagdali-dali gid sila sa pagsugata kay David sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Sang manugtabok pa lang si David sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, nagluhod si Shimei sa iya
kag nagsiling, “Mahal nga Hari, patawara ako. Kabay pa nga kalimtan mo na ang akon malain nga ginhimo sa imo sang naghalin ka sa Jerusalem.
Sang mabatian man ini sang mga soldado, nauntat ang ila sinadya sa ila nga pagdaog, kag nagpangasubo man sila.
Ginaako ko nga nakasala gid ako, Mahal nga Hari. Amo gani nga una gid ako nga nagkadto diri sang sa iban nga mga tribo sa north
Dayon nagsiling si Abishai nga anak ni Zeruya, “Indi bala nga dapat patyon si Shimei tungod kay ginpakamalaot niya ang hari nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo ?”
Pero nagsiling si David, “Kamo nga mga anak ni Zeruya, ano ang inyo labot? Indi ninyo pagkontraha ang akon desisyon subong. Ako na subong ang hari sang Israel, kag wala sing tawo nga pagapatyon sa Israel subong nga adlaw.”
Gani nagsiling si David kay Shimei, “Nagasumpa ako nga indi ka gid pagpatyon.”
Nagsabat siya, “Mahal nga Hari, nahibaluan mo nga lupog ako. Ginsilingan ko ang akon suluguon nga si Ziba nga ipreparar niya ang akon donkey para makasakay ako kag makaupod sa imo. Pero gintraiduran niya ako.
Kag ginbutang-butangan niya ako sa imo nga kuno indi ako mag-upod nga kuno indi ako mag-upod . Pero nahibaluan mo ang matuod kay nahibaluan mo ang matuod kay pareho ka sa anghel sang Dios, gani himua ang maayo para sa imo.
Dapat lang kuntani nga pamatyon mo ang tanan nga kaliwat sang akon lolo, pero ginhatagan mo ako nga imo alagad sang pabor sa pagkaon upod sa imo. Gani wala ako sing kinamatarong sa pagpangayo pa sa imo sang pabor.”
Nagsiling si David sa iya, “Husto na ina. Nakadesisyon na ako nga tungaon ninyo ni Ziba ang duta ni Saul.”
Nagbalik sila nga malinong sa banwa sang Mahanaim, sang Mahanaim, pareho sa mga soldado nga nahuya tungod kay nagpalagyo sa inaway.
Nagsiling si Mefiboshet sa hari, “Ihatag na lang sa iya tanan. Para sa akon kontento na ako nga nakapuli ka nga wala maano.”
Nagkadto man kay David si Barzilai nga taga-Gilead halin sa Rogelim. Gusto man niya magbulig sa pagpatabok sa ila ni David sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Tigulang na si Barzilai; 80 na ang iya edad. Manggaranon gid siya, kag siya ang naghatag sang mga kinahanglanon ni David sang didto pa si David nagatiner sa Mahanaim.
Nagsiling si David sa iya, “Magtabok ka upod sa akon kag mag-estar sa Jerusalem. Ako ang bahala sa imo didto.”
Pero nagsabat si Barzilai, “Indi na ako maglawig, ngaa nga maupod pa ako sa imo sa Jerusalem?
80 na ang akon edad, kag indi na ako makahibalo kon ano ang manami kag ang indi manami. Indi na ako makapanabor sang akon ginakaon kag ginainom. Indi na ako makabati sang mga manugkanta. Mabudlayan ka lang sa akon, Mahal nga Hari.
Gamay man lang nga pabor
Mapuli lang ako, para kon mapatay ako, didto ako mapatay sa akon kaugalingon nga banwa, nga sa diin ginlubong ang akon ginikanan. Pero ari ang akon anak nga ang akon anak nga si Kimham nga magaalagad sa imo. Dal-a siya, Mahal nga Hari, kag himua sa iya kon ano ang maayo para sa imo.”
Nagsabat ang hari, “Paupdon ko siya sa akon kag himuon ko sa iya ang bisan ano nga maayo para sa imo, kag himuon ko man sa imo ang bisan ano nga ipangabay mo sa akon.”
Ginhakos ni David si Barzilai kag ginbendisyunan. Dayon nagtabok si David kag ang tanan niya nga tinawo sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Kag nagpuli si Barzilai sa iya balay.
Gintabunan ni David ang iya guya kag naghibi sing tudo, “O Absalom, anak ko, anak ko!”
Sang nakatabok na si David, nagkadto siya sa Gilgal kaupod si Kimhan kag ang tanan nga soldado sang Juda kag ang katunga sang mga soldado sang Israel.
Karon, nagkadto kay David ang tanan nga soldado sang Israel kag nagreklamo kon ngaa ang ila kadugo nga mga taga-Juda amo gid ang nagpangamot sa pagpatabok sa iya kag sa iya pamilya, kag sa tanan niya nga tinawo.
Nagsabat ang mga taga-Juda sa mga soldado sang Israel, “Ginhimo namon ini tungod kay ang hari amon malapit nga paryente. Gani ngaa mangakig gid kamo? Nakabaton bala kami sang pagkaon ukon sang bisan ano nga regalo halin sa iya? Wala gid! Wala gid! ”
Nagsabat ang katawhan sang Israel, “Napulo kami ka tribo sa Israel, gani napulo ka pilo ang amon kinamatarong sa hari sang sa inyo. Ngaa ginahikayan ninyo kami? Indi bala nga kami gani ang una nga nagsiling nga pabalikon ta ang aton hari?” Pero indi gid magpasupil ang katawhan sang Juda, kag masakit sila kon magsabat sa katawhan sang Israel.
Dayon nagkadto si Joab sa balay sang hari kag nagsiling, “Ginpakahuy-an mo subong nga adlaw ang imo mga tinawo nga nagluwas sang imo kabuhi kag sang kabuhi sang imo mga anak kag mga asawa.
Ginapalangga mo ang nagakontra sa imo, kag ginakontra mo ang nagapalangga sa imo. Maathag nga ginapakawalay pulos mo ang imo mga opisyal kag mga tinawo. Nareyalisar ko nga mas nalipay ka pa kon tanan kami ang napatay kag si Absalom ya buhi.
Karon, guwa ka, kag pasalamati ang imo mga tinawo. Kay kon indi ka, ginasumpa ko sa Ginoo Ginoo nga wala sing may magpabilin sa ila upod sa imo sini nga gab-i. Kag amo ini ang pinakamalain nga matabo sa imo halin sang una hasta subong.”
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagpalalagyo puli ang mga soldado sang Israel nga mga tinawo ni Absalom nga mga tinawo ni Absalom .
Nagbinais-bais ang mga tawo sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel. Siling nila, “Ginluwas kita ni Haring David David sa kamot sang aton mga kaaway nga mga Filistinhon, pero nagpalagyo siya sa aton nasyon tungod kay Absalom.
Karon, may isa ka tawo didto nga Benjaminhon nga permi lang nagapangita sang gamo. Ang iya ngalan si Sheba, kag anak siya ni Bicri. Ginpatunog niya ang budyong kag nagsinggit, “Mga taga-Israel, wala kita sang labot kay David nga anak ni Jesse! Mapuli kita tanan!”
Pero wala makatalupangod si Amasa sang espada sa wala nga kamot ni Joab. Ginbuno siya ni Joab sa tiyan kag nagwagay ang iya tinai sa duta. Napatay siya dayon, gani wala na siya liwat ginbuno ni Joab. Dayon nagpadayon si Joab kag ang iya utod nga si Abishai sa paglagas kay Sheba.
Nagtindog sa tupad ni Amasa ang isa sa mga tinawo ni Joab, kag nagsiling sa mga tinawo ni Amasa, sa mga tinawo ni Amasa, “Kon nagadampig kamo kay Joab kag kay David, magsunod kamo kay Joab!”
Nagahamyang sa tunga sang dalan ang bangkay ni Amasa nga nagapaligo sa iya kaugalingon nga dugo. Ang bisan sin-o nga makakita sa iya nagapundo gid sa pagtan-aw. Gani sang matalupangdan ini sang sadto nga tinawo ni Joab, gin-guyod niya ang bangkay ni Amasa halin sa dalan pakadto sa latagon, kag gintabunan ini sang tela.
Sang makuha na ang bangkay ni Amasa sa dalan, nagpadayon ang tanan sa pagsunod kay Joab sa paglagas kay Sheba.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagkadto si Sheba sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel sa pagtipon sang tanan niya nga paryente.
Sang mahibaluan ini ni Sang mahibaluan ini ni Joab kag sang iya mga tinawo, nagkadto sila sa Abel Bet Maaca kag ginpalibutan ini. Nagtumpok sila sang duta sa kilid sang pader para makataklas sila, kag gin-amat-amat nila wasak ang pader.
Karon, may isa ka maalamon nga babayi sa sulod sang banwa nga nagsinggit sa mga tinawo ni Joab, sa mga tinawo ni Joab, “Pamati kamo sa akon! Silinga ninyo si Joab nga magkadto siya diri sa akon kay gusto ko nga magpakig-estorya sa iya.”
Gani nagkadto si Joab sa iya, kag nagpamangkot ang babayi, “Ikaw bala si Joab?” Nagsabat si Joab, “Huo.” Nagsiling ang babayi, “Sir, pamatii ang isiling ko sa imo.” Nagsabat si Joab, “Sige, mamati ako.”
Nagsiling ang babayi, “May isa ka hulubaton sang una nga nagasiling, ‘Kon gusto ninyo nga masolbar ang inyo mga problema, magpangayo kamo sang laygay sa banwa sang banwa sang Abel.’
Isa ako sa mga nagahandom nga may ara sang padayon nga kalinong sa Israel. Pero ikaw ya, ngaa ginatinguhaan mo nga gub-on ang isa sa mga nagapanguna nga banwa
Gani ginbayaan sang mga taga-Israel si David kag nagsunod kay Sheba nga anak ni Bicri. Pero nagpabilin ang mga taga-Juda sa ila hari, kag gin-updan nila siya halin sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan pakadto sa Jerusalem.
Nagsabat si Joab, “Indi ko gid gusto nga gub-on ang inyo banwa!
Indi amo ina ang amon tuyo. Nagsalakay kami tungod kay Sheba nga anak ni Bicri nga halin sa kabukiran sang Efraim. Ini siya nagrebelde kay Haring David. Itugyan ninyo siya sa amon kag mahalin kami sa inyo banwa.” Nagsiling ang babayi, “Ihaboy namon sa imo ang iya ulo halin sa pader.”
Dayon ginkadtuan sang babayi ang mga pumuluyo sang banwa kag ginsugiran sila sang iya plano. Ginpugutan nila sang ulo si Sheba kag ginhaboy nila ini kay Joab. Ginpatunog dayon ni Joab ang budyong kag naghalin ang iya mga tinawo sa banwa kag nagpuli. Kag nagbalik si Joab sa hari sa Jerusalem.
Ang pangulo sang bilog nga soldado sang Israel amo si Joab. Ang pangulo sang mga badigard ni David nga mga badigard ni David nga mga Keretnon kag mga Peletnon amo si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada.
Ang nagadumala sa mga ulipon nga ginapilit sa pag-obra amo si Adoniram.
Ang sekretaryo sang hari amo si Sheva. Ang mga pangulo nga pangulo nga pari amo si Zadok kag si Abiatar.
Kag ang personal nga pari ni David amo si Ira nga taga-Jair.
Sang nakabalik na si David sa iya palasyo sa Jerusalem, nagpasugo siya nga dal-on sa isa ka balay ang iya napulo ka asawa nga iya ginbilin sa pag-atipan sang palasyo, kag ginpaguwardyahan niya sila. Ginhatagan niya sila sang ila mga kinahanglanon, pero wala na siya maghulid sa ila. Didto sila nag-estar nga daw sa mga balo hasta nga napatay sila.
Dayon nagsiling ang hari kay Amasa, “Tawga ang mga soldado sang Juda kag magkadto kamo sa akon sa ikatlo nga adlaw halin karon.”
Gani naglakat si Amasa kag gintawag ang mga soldado sang Juda, pero wala siya makabalik sa tion nga ginsiling sang hari sa iya.
Gani nagsiling ang hari kay Abishai, “Mas grabe pa nga halit ang himuon sa aton ni Sheba sang sa ginhimo ni Absalom. Gani karon, dal-a ang akon mga tinawo kag lagsa ninyo siya, kay basi makaagaw siya sang mga napaderan nga mga banwa, kag makapalagyo siya sa aton.”
Gani naghalin si Abishai sa Jerusalem sa paglagas kay Sheba nga anak ni Bicri. Gin-upod niya si Joab kag ang iya mga tinawo, ang mga badigard ni David nga mga badigard ni David nga mga Keretnon kag mga Peletnon, kag ang tanan nga maisog nga mga soldado.
Sang didto na sila sa dako nga bato sa Gibeon, naabtan sila ni Amasa. Nakauniporme si Joab kag may ginataklos nga espada. Samtang nagapalapit siya kay Amasa, gin-gabot niya sing tago ang espada.
Nagsiling siya kay Amasa, “Kamusta ka abyan?” Dayon gin-uyatan niya sang iya tuo nga kamot ang burangos ni Amasa sa paghalok kuno abi sa iya.
Sang nagahari si David, may nag-abot nga gutom sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig. Nagdangop si David sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginsabat siya sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Nag-abot ang gutom tungod sang pagpamatay ni Saul kag sang iya pamilya sa mga Gibeonhon.”
Ang anak ni Aya nga si Rizpa nagkuha sang sako kag ginhumlad ini sa bato para iya nga higdaan. Ginbantayan niya ang mga bangkay para indi pagkaunon sang mga pispis kon adlaw kag indi man pagkaunon sang talunon nga mga sapat kon gab-i. Didto siya nagtiner halin sang pag-umpisa sang tig-alani hasta nga nag-ulan.
Sang ginsugiran si David sang ginhimo ni Rizpa nga asawa ni Saul,
nagkadto siya sa mga pumuluyo sang Jabesh Gilead kag ginpangayo ang mga tul-an ni Saul kag sang iya anak nga si Jonatan. (Sang mapatay si Saul kag si Jonatan sa ila pagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon sa Gilboa, ginpakabit sang mga Filistinhon ang ila mga bangkay sa plasa sang Bet Shan, kag sekreto nga ginkuha sang mga taga-Jabesh Gilead ang ila mga bangkay.)
Gindala ni David ang mga tul-an ni Saul kag ni Jonatan, kag pati man ang mga tul-an sang pito nga ginpamatay sang mga Gibeonhon.
Kag ginpalubong niya ini sa iya mga tinawo sa ginlubngan sang amay ni Saul nga si Kish, sa banwa sang Zela sa Benjamin. Natuman tanan ang ginmando ni David. Kag pagkatapos sadto, ginsabat sang Dios ang ila pangamuyo nga mag-untat na ang gutom nga mag-untat na ang gutom sa ila nasyon.
Isa ka tion, nag-inaway liwat ang mga Filistinhon kag mga Israelinhon. Kag sang nagapakig-away si David kag ang iya mga tinawo, ginkapoy gid siya.
Si Ishbi Benob nga Filistinhon, nga Filistinhon, nga isa sa mga kaliwat sang mga Rafa,
Pero nag-abot si Abishai nga anak ni Zeruya sa pagluwas kay David, kag ginpatay niya ini nga Filistinhon. Pagkatapos sadto nagsumpa ang mga tinawo ni David sa iya, “Indi na kami magsugot nga mag-upod ka liwat sa amon sa pagpakig-away. Kaangay ka sang suga sa Israel, kag indi kami gusto nga madula ka.”
Sang ulihi nag-inaway liwat ang mga Filistinhon kag mga Israelinhon, kag didto ini natabo sa Gob. Sa sini nga inaway ginpatay ni Sibecai nga taga-Husha si Saf, nga isa sa mga kaliwat sang mga Rafa.
Kag sa isa pa nila ka inaway sa Gob, ginpatay ni Elhanan nga anak ni Jaare Oregim, nga taga-Betlehem, si Goliat nga taga-Gat. Ang bangkaw ni Goliat mabug-at kag madamol.
Ginpatawag ni David ang mga Gibeonhon
Nag-inaway pa gid liwat ang mga Filistinhon kag mga Israelinhon, kag didto ini natabo sa Gat. Sa sini nga inaway, may tawo nga puwerte gid kadako, nga may anom ka tudlo ang tagsa niya ka kamot kag tiil. Isa man siya sa mga kaliwat sang mga Rafa.
Sang ginyaguta niya ang mga Israelinhon, ginpatay siya ni Jonatan nga anak sang utod ni David nga si Shimea.
Atong apat ka Filistinhon mga kaliwat sang mga Rafa nga taga-Gat. Ginpamatay sila ni David kag sang iya mga tinawo.
kag ginpamangkot, “Ano ang himuon ko sa inyo para mabayaran ang sala nga nahimo ni Saul sa inyo? Sugiri ako, para pakamaayuhon ninyo ang katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsabat ang mga Gibeonhon, “Indi mabayaran sang pilak ukon bulawan ang kaakig namon kay Saul kag sa iya pamilya. Kag wala kami sing kinamatarong sa pagpatay sa kay bisan sin-o sa Israel luwas kon tugutan mo luwas kon tugutan mo .” Nagpamangkot si David, “Ti, ano ang gusto ninyo nga himuon ko para sa inyo?”
Nagsabat sila, “Gintinguhaan kami ni Saul nga patyon para wala sing may mabilin sa amon sa Israel.
Gani itugyan sa amon ang pito sa iya mga kaliwat nga lalaki, kay patyon namon sila kag pabay-an ang ila mga bangkay sa lugar nga malapit sa ginasimbahan sa Ginoo Ginoo sa Gibea, ang banwa ni Saul nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga hari.” Nagsiling ang hari, “Sige, ihatag ko sila sa inyo.”
Wala gintugyan ni David sa ila si Mefiboshet nga anak ni Jonatan kag apo ni Saul, tungod sang ila ginsumpaan ni Jonatan sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang gintugyan ni David amo ang duha ka anak ni Saul nga si Armoni kag si Mefiboshet, nga ang ila iloy amo si Rizpa nga anak ni Aya. Gintugyan man ni David ang lima ka anak nga lalaki ni Merab. Si Merab anak ni Saul kag asawa ni Adriel nga anak ni Barzilai nga taga-Mehola.
Gintugyan sila ni David sa mga Gibeonhon, kag ginpatay sila nga pito didto sa bukid malapit sa lugar nga ginasimbahan sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag ginpabay-an lang didto ang ila mga bangkay. Natabo ini sang pag-umpisa sang tion sang tig-alani sang barley.
Nagkanta si David sa Ginoo Ginoo sang ginluwas siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kamot sang iya mga kaaway kag kay Saul.
kag nagpanaog ka nga nagatungtong sa madamol nga gal-om.
kag madasig ini nga naglupad samtang ginapalid sang hangin.
Nagpanago ka sa madamol nga gal-om.
kag may nagadabadaba nga mga baga.
Ang tingog mo Ginoo Ginoo , nga Labing Mataas nga Dios, nagdaguob sa langit.
kag nagpalalagyo sila nga nagasalasala.
kag makita man ang pundasyon sang kalibutan.
kag ginkuha sa madalom nga tubig.
nga indi ko masarangan.
pero gin-apinan mo ako, Ginoo Ginoo .
ginluwas mo ako kay nalipay ka sa akon.
kag wala ako sing may nahimo nga sala.
kag wala ako nagbiya sa imo.
kag wala ko ginalapas ang imo mga pagsulundan.
kag ginalikawan ko nga makasala.
kag maayo sa mga tawo nga maayo man.
kag maayo ka magpadihot sa mga malain.
pero ginapaubos mo ang mga matinaas-taason.
Sa kadulom ikaw ang akon suga.
kag masarangan ko nga sakaon ang pader nga nagapalibot sa siyudad nga nagapalibot sa siyudad .
Pareho ka sa taming sa tanan nga nagapangayo sang proteksyon sa imo.
ikaw lang ang amon palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato.
kag ang nagabantay sa akon dalanon.
para maagwanta ko ang pagtaklad sa mataas nga mga lugar.
pareho abi sa pagbinat sa mabakod nga pana.
Paagi sa imo bulig nangin bantog ako.
gani wala nagakasandad ang akon mga tiil.
Kag wala gid ako magbalik hasta nga nalaglag ko sila.
kag indi na sila makabangon pa.
ginaluwas mo ako sa akon mga kaaway.
kag ginpadaog sa akon mga kaaway.
kag ginlaglag ko sila.
pero wala mo sila ginsabat.
Gintasak-tasak ko sila nga daw sa lunang sa dalan.
Ang mga taga-iban nga lugar nagaalagad sa akon.
kag nagatuman dayon sang akon mando.
gani nagaguwa sila sa ila mga palanaguan nga nagakurog sa kahadlok.
Ginapakataas ko ikaw tungod nga ikaw ang Dios nga akon manluluwas.
kag ginapasakop mo ang mga nasyon sa akon.
kag ginapadaog mo ako sa ila.
Ang kalaglagan daw pareho sa mabaskog nga baha nga naglapaw sa akon.
Kantahan ko ikaw sang mga pagdayaw.
Ginahigugma mo si David kag ang iya mga kaliwat hasta san-o.”
kag pareho sa siod sa akon alagyan.
kag ginpamatian mo ang akon pangamuyo sa imo templo.
tungod kay nangakig ka, Ginoo Ginoo .
kag nagadabadaba nga mga baga.
Si David nga anak ni Jesse ginpabantog sang Labing Mataas nga Dios. Ginpili siya sang Dios ni Jacob nga mangin hari. Kag manugkumposo siya sang matahom nga mga ambahanon sang Israel. Amo ini ang katapusan niya nga ginhambal:
pero siya ya nagpabilin kag ginpamatay niya ang mga Filistinhon hasta nga ginkapoy ang iya kamot kag naniskog ini nga daw indi na makabuya sa espada. Ginpadaog sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sadto nga adlaw. Ang nagpalalagyo nga mga Israelinhon nagbalik didto kay Eleazar sa pagpanguha lang sang mga armas sang mga nagkalamatay.
Ang sunod pa gid amo si Shama nga anak ni Agee nga taga-Harar. Isa ka tion, nagtipon ang mga Filistinhon sa Lehi, kag ginsalakay nila ang mga Israelinhon sa may uma nga puno sang balatong. Nagpalalagyo ang mga Israelinhon,
pero si Shama ya nagpabilin sa tunga sang uma kag ginprotektaran niya ini. Ginpamatay niya ang mga Filistinhon kag ginpadaog sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sadto nga adlaw.
Isa ka tion sang tig-alani, nagkadto kay David ang tatlo niya ka tinawo didto sa kuweba sang Adulam. Ini sila nga tatlo miyembro sang 30 ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David nga mga tinawo ni David . Nagakampo sadto ang mga Filistinhon sa Kapatagan sang Refaim
kag naagaw nila ang Betlehem. Samtang didto si David sa isa ka mabakod nga palanaguan,
gin-uhaw siya. Nagsiling siya, “Maayo kuntani kon may magkuha para sa akon sang tubig nga mainom didto sa bubon malapit sa puwertahan sang Betlehem.”
Gani nagsulod sing tago atong tatlo ka maisog nga mga tawo sa kampo sang mga Filistinhon kag nagkuha sila sang tubig sa bubon malapit sa puwertahan sang Betlehem kag gindala kay David. Pero indi mag-inom si David; sa baylo, gin-ula niya ini bilang halad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ato ang mga ginhimo sang tatlo ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David.
Si Abishai nga utod ni Joab, nga anak ni Zeruya amo ang pangulo sang 30
Kag tungod nga siya ang pinakabantog sa iya kaupod nga 30,
ang iya mga pulong ara sa akon baba.
May isa pa ka maisog nga tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Benaya. Taga-Kabzeel siya, kag ang iya amay amo si Jehoyada. Naghimo siya sang pinasahi nga mga buhat, lakip na ang pagpatay sa duha ka pinakamaayo nga soldado sang Moab. Sa isa man ka tion, ginlagas niya ang isa ka leon Sa isa man ka tion, ginlagas niya ang isa ka leon . Bisan nagasnow kag madanlog kag madanlog , nagpanaog siya sa buho kag ginpatay niya ang leon.
Sa isa pa gid ka tion, Sa isa pa gid ka tion, ginpatay niya ang isa ka Egyptohanon nga puwerte kadako. Ang armas sang Egyptohanon bangkaw, pero ang iya armas inuglampos lang. Gin-agaw niya ang bangkaw sa Egyptohanon kag amo ini ang ginpatay sa iya.
Amo ato ang mga ginhimo ni Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada. Nangin bantog man siya pareho sa tatlo ka maisog nga mga tawo,
pero indi siya parte nila. Kag tungod nga siya ang pinakabantog sa iya kaupod nga 30, ginhimo siya ni David nga pangulo sang iya mga badigard.
si Elhanan nga anak ni Dodo nga taga-Betlehem;
si Shama kag si Elika nga mga taga-Harod;
si Ira nga anak ni Ikesh nga taga-Tekoa;
si Maharai nga taga-Netofa;
si Itai nga anak ni Ribai nga taga-Gibea, nga sakop sang Benjamin;
‘Ang tawo nga nagadumala sing matarong kag may kahadlok sa Dios,
si Azmavet nga taga-Bahurim;
si Ahiam nga anak ni Sharar nga taga-Harar;
si Eliam nga anak ni Ahitofel nga taga-Gilo;
si Paarai nga taga-Arba;
ang anak ni Hagadi;
si Naharai nga taga-Beerot, nga manugdala sang armas ni Joab nga anak ni Zeruya;
si Ira kag si Gareb nga mga taga-Jatir;
nga nagapasilak sa mga hilamon nga naulanan!’
kag ihatag niya sa akon ang tanan ko nga ginahandom.
Si Josheb Bashebet nga taga-Takemon, nga amo ang nagapanguna sa tatlo ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David . Sa isa lang ka inaway, nakapatay siya sang 800 ka tawo paagi sa iya bangkaw.
Ang sunod sa iya amo si Eleazar nga anak ni Dodai nga kaliwat ni Ahoa, nga isa man sa tatlo ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David . Isa siya sa mga kaupod ni David nga naghangkat sa mga Filistinhon nga nagtipon sa Pas Damim
Sa liwat nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon, kag gin-ganyat niya si David sa paghimo sang butang nga makahalit sa ila. Siling niya kay David kay David , “Isipa ang mga katawhan sang Israel kag Juda.”
Ginkonsensya si David matapos niya ginpa-census ang mga tawo. Gani nagsiling siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Nakasala gid ako sa akon ginhimo. Gani nagapakitluoy ako sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo , nga patawaron mo ako nga imo alagad sa akon sala, kay kabuangan gid ang akon ginhimo.”
Sa wala pa makabangon si David sang sunod nga aga, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gad nga propeta ni David,
“Magkadto ka kay David kag papilia siya kon sa diin sa tatlo ka silot ang gusto niya nga himuon ko sa iya.”
Gani nagkadto si Gad kay David kag nagsiling sa iya, “Diin sa sini ang gusto mo: Tatlo
Nagsabat si David kay Gad, “Nabudlayan gid ako magpili. Maayo pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo na lang ang magsilot sa amon sang sa mga tawo, kay maluluy-on ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gani nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang kahalitan sa Israel halin sadto nga aga hasta sa tion nga iya ginsiling. Kag 70,000 ka tawo ang napatay halin sa Dan hasta sa Beersheba.
Sang laglagon na kuntani sang anghel ang Jerusalem, nagbaylo ang hunahuna sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagsilot sa mga tawo. Gani nagsiling siya sa anghel nga nagasilot sa mga tawo, “Tama na! Indi na sila pagsiluti.” Sadto nga tion didto ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa may linasan ni Arauna nga Jebusnon.
Sang makita sadto ni David ang anghel nga nagapamatay sang mga tawo, nagsiling siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Ako ang nakasala. Ini nga mga tawo nga pareho sa mga karnero, wala sing may nahimo nga sala. Ako na lang kag ang akon pamilya ang siluti.”
Sina nga adlaw nagkadto si Gad kay David kag nagsiling sa iya, “Magtaklad ka sa linasan ni Arauna nga Jebusnon kag maghimo ka didto sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gani nagtaklad si David suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Gad.
Gani nagsiling si Haring David David kay Joab kag sa mga kumander sang mga soldado, “Lakat kamo sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel, halin sa Dan hasta sa Beersheba,
Sang makita ni Arauna si David kag ang iya mga tinawo nga nagapadulong, nagguwa siya kag nagluhod sa atubangan ni David bilang pagtahod sa iya bilang pagtahod sa iya .
Nagsiling si Arauna, “Mahal nga Hari, ngaa nga ari ka?” Nagsabat si David, “Nagkadto ako diri sa pagbakal sang imo linasan kay mahimo ako sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo , agod mauntat na ang kahalitan sa mga tawo.”
Nagsiling si Arauna, “Kuhaa kag ihalad ang bisan ano nga gusto mo, Mahal nga Hari. Ari ang mga baka para imo ihalad bilang halad nga ginasunog, kag ari man ang ila mga gota kag pati ang mga tapi nga panglinas para igatong.
Mahal nga Hari, ginahatag ko ini tanan sa imo, kag kabay pa nga batunon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios ang imo halad.”
Pero nagsabat si David sa iya, “Indi ko ini pagbatunon nga libre; bayaran ko gid ikaw. Indi ako maghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios sang mga halad nga ginasunog nga wala sing bili sa akon.” Gani ginbakal ni David ang linasan kag ang mga baka sa kantidad nga 50 ka bilog nga pilak.
Dayon naghimo siya didto sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Ginsabat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pangamuyo ni David para sa Israel, kag nag-untat ang kahalitan.
Pero nagsabat si Joab sa hari, “Kabay pa nga padamuon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios ang imo katawhan sing 100 ka pilo, kag kabay pa nga makita mo ini. Pero Mahal nga Hari, ngaa nga gusto mo himuon ini nga butang?”
Pero nag-insister gid si David, gani naglakat si Joab kag ang mga opisyal sang mga soldado sa pag-census sa katawhan sang Israel.
Nagtabok sila sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagsugod sa pag-census sa pag-census
Nagkadto man sila sa Gilead, sa Tatim Hodshi, sa Dan Jaan, kag naglibot sila pakadto sa Sidon.
Dayon nagkadto sila sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Tyre, kag sa tanan nga banwa sang mga Hivhanon kag mga Canaanhon. Kag sa katapusan, nagkadto sila sa Beersheba, sa south
Nalibot nila ang bilog nga nasyon sa sulod sang 9 ka bulan kag 20 ka adlaw, kag pagkatapos nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem.
Ginsugid ni Joab kay Haring David David ang kadamuon sang mga lalaki nga makasarang magpakig-away: 800,000 sa Israel kag 500,000 sa Juda.
Tigulang na gid si Haring David, kag bisan habulan pa siya sang pila ka habol ginatugnawan gihapon siya.
Pero wala niya pag-imbitara si Natan nga propeta, si Benaya, ang mga badigard sang hari, kag si Solomon nga iya utod.
Nagkadto si Natan kay Batsheba nga iloy ni Solomon, kag nagpamangkot, “Wala ka bala kahibalo nga ginhimo ni Adonia ang iya kaugalingon nga hari, kag wala kahibalo si Haring David parte sini?
Kon gusto mo nga maluwas ang imo kabuhi kag ang kabuhi sang imo anak nga si Solomon, sunda ang akon laygay.
Kadtui si Haring David kag silinga siya, ‘Mahal nga Hari, indi bala nga nagpromisa ka sa akon nga ang aton
Kag samtang nagapakighambal ka sa hari, masulod ako kag pamatud-an ko ang imo ginahambal.”
Gani nagkadto si Batsheba sa kuwarto sang hari. Tigulang na gid ang hari kag si Abishag nga taga-Shunem amo ang nagaatipan sa iya.
Nagluhod si Batsheba bilang pagtahod sa hari. Nagpamangkot sa iya ang hari, “Ano ang mahimo ko sa imo?”
Nagsabat si Batsheba, “Mahal nga Hari, nagpromisa ka sa akon sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios nga ang aton anak nga si Solomon amo ang magabulos sa imo bilang hari.
Pero karon si Adonia na ang nangin hari, kag wala ka gid kahibalo sini.
Naghalad siya sang madamo nga turo nga mga baka, ginpatambok nga bataon nga mga baka, kag mga karnero, kag gin-imbitar niya ang tanan mo nga anak nga lalaki, magluwas lang kay Solomon nga imo alagad. Gin-imbitar man niya si Abiatar nga pari kag si Joab nga kumander sang imo mga soldado.
Gani nagsiling sa iya ang iya mga alagad, “Mahal nga Hari, tuguti kami nga mangita sang bataon nga dalaga nga mag-atipan sa imo. Magahulid siya sa imo para indi ka matugnawan.”
Kag karon, Mahal nga Hari, nagahulat ang mga Israelinhon sa imo desisyon kon sin-o ang magabulos sa imo bilang hari.
Kon indi ka magdesisyon, ako kag ang akon anak nga si Solomon kabigon nga mga traidor kon patay ka na.”
Samtang nagapakighambal pa si Batsheba sa hari, nag-abot si Natan nga propeta.
May nagsiling sa hari nga nag-abot si Natan, gani ginpatawag siya sang hari. gani ginpatawag siya sang hari. Pagsulod ni Natan nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod sa hari,
kag nagsiling, “Mahal nga Hari, nagsiling ka bala nga si Adonia amo ang magabulos sa imo bilang hari?
Nagahalad siya subong sang madamo nga turo nga mga baka, ginpatambok nga bataon nga mga baka, kag mga karnero. Kag gin-imbitar niya ang halos tanan mo nga anak nga lalaki, ang kumander sang imo mga soldado, kag si Abiatar nga pari. Nagakinaon kag nagaininom sila subong, kag nagasiling, ‘Mabuhay si Haring Adonia!’
Pero ako nga imo alagad wala niya pag-imbitara, pati man si Zadok nga pari, si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada, kag si Solomon nga imo alagad.
Ginhimo mo gid bala ini, Mahal nga Hari, nga wala mo kami pagpahibalua kon sin-o ang magabulos sa imo bilang hari?”
Nagsiling si Haring David, “Silinga si Batsheba nga magkadto diri.” Gani nagkadto si Batsheba sa hari.
Dayon nagsumpa si Haring David David , “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga nagluwas sa akon sa tanan nga katalagman,
Gani nagpangita sila sang guwapa nga dalaga sa bilog nga Israel, kag nakita nila si Abishag nga taga-Shunem, kag gindala nila siya sa hari.
nga tumanon ko subong ang akon ginsumpa sa imo sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga si Solomon nga aton anak amo ang magabulos sa akon bilang hari.”
Nagluhod dayon si Batsheba bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod sa hari, kag nagsiling, “Mahal nga Haring David, kabay pa nga magkabuhi ka sing malawig!”
Nagsiling si Haring David, “Pakadtua diri si Zadok nga pari, si Natan nga propeta, kag si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada.” Gani nagkadto sila sa hari,
kag nagsiling ang hari sa ila, “Pasakya ninyo ang akon anak nga si Solomon sa akon kabayo,
Pag-abot ninyo didto, kamo Zadok kag Natan amo ang magahaplas sang lana sa ulo ni Solomon sa pagpakita nga siya ang pinili nga hari sang Israel. Dayon patunuga ninyo ang budyong kag magsinggit, ‘Mabuhay si Haring Solomon!’
Pagkatapos updan ninyo siya sa pagbalik diri, kag magapungko siya sa akon trono kag magabulos sa akon bilang hari. Siya ang ginpili ko nga magdumala sa bilog nga Israel kag Juda.”
Nagsabat si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada, “Himuon namon ina! Kabay pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, Mahal nga Hari, magapamatuod sini.
Kag subong nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nag-upod sa imo, Mahal nga Hari, kabay pa nga mag-upod man siya kay Solomon, kag himuon niya nga mas mainuswagon pa ang iya paghari sang sa imo paghari.”
Gani naglakat sila ni Zadok nga pari, Natan nga propeta, Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada, kag ang mga badigard ni David nga mga badigard ni David nga mga Keretnon kag mga Peletnon. Ginpasakay nila si Solomon sa kabayo ni Haring David kag gindala sa Gihon.
Pag-abot nila didto, Pag-abot nila didto, ginkuha ni Zadok sa balaan nga balaan nga tolda
Matahom gid si Abishag, kag nangin manug-atipan siya sang hari. Pero wala gid siya gintandog sang hari.
Gindul-ong sang mga tawo si Haring Solomon puli sa Jerusalem nga nagahinugyaw sa kalipay kag nagapatunog sang mga plawta. Daw sa nagauyog ang duta sa ila ginahod.
Nabatian ini tanan ni Adonia kag sang iya mga bisita samtang nagahingapos sila sang ila punsyon. Pagkabati ni Joab sang budyong, nagpamangkot siya, “Ano bala ang natabo nga puwerte kagahod sa siyudad?”
Samtang nagahambal pa siya, nag-abot si Jonatan nga anak ni Abiatar nga pari. Nagsiling si Adonia, “Sulod, kay maayo ka nga tawo, kag sigurado nga may dala ka nga maayo nga balita.”
Nagsabat si Jonatan, “Indi maayo nga balita, kay ginhimo ni Haring David si Solomon nga hari.
Ginpakadto niya siya sa Gihon kaupod si Zadok nga pari, si Natan nga propeta, si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada, kag ang iya mga badigard nga iya mga badigard nga mga Keretnon kag mga Peletnon. Ginpasakay pa gani nila si Solomon sa kabayo sang hari.
Pag-abot nila sa Gihon, ginhaplasan siya sang lana ni Zadok kag ni Natan sa pagpakita nga siya ang pinili nga hari. Bag-o lang sila nakabalik, amo gani nga nagahinugyaw ang mga tawo sa siyudad. Amo inang ginahod nga inyo nabatian.
Kag karon si Solomon na ang nagapungko sa trono bilang hari.
Dugang pa gid sini, nagkadto kay Haring David ang iya mga opisyal sa pagpadungog sa iya. Siling nila, ‘Kabay pa nga himuon sang imo Dios si Solomon nga mas bantog sang sa imo, kag himuon niya nga mas mainuswagon pa ang iya paghari sang sa imo paghari.’ Nagduko dayon si David sa iya hiligdaan sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo ,
kag nagsiling, ‘Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga nagtugot sa akon nga makita ko subong nga adlaw ang pagbulos sang akon anak bilang hari.’ ”
Pagkabati sini sang mga bisita ni Adonia, nagtilindog sila nga puwerte ang kahadlok, kag nag-iya-iya lakat.
Karon, si Adonia nga anak ni David kay David kay Hagit nagpahambog nga mangin hari siya. Gani nagpreparar siya sang mga karwahe kag mga kabayo
Hinadlukan man si Adonia kay Solomon, gani nagkadto siya sa balaan nga tolda sa balaan nga tolda kag nag-uyat sa mga sulosungay sa mga corner sa mga corner sang halaran.
Karon may nagsugid kay Solomon, “Nahadlok sa imo si Adonia, kag nagauyat siya subong sa mga sulosungay sang halaran. Nagapangabay siya nga magsumpa ka nga indi mo siya pagpatyon.”
Nagsiling si Solomon, “Kon indi siya magtraidor sa akon, indi gid siya maano.
Dayon ginpakuha ni Haring Solomon si Adonia didto sa halaran, kag pag-abot ni Adonia, nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod kay Haring Solomon. Nagsiling si Solomon sa iya, “Magpuli ka.”
Halin sang una ginapabay-an lang siya ni David kag wala siya ginasaway sa iya mga ginahimo. Guwapo gid si Adonia kag sunod siya nga manghod ni Absalom.
Nagpakighambal siya kay Joab nga anak ni Zeruya kag kay Abiatar nga pari parte sa iya plano nga mangin hari, kag nagsugot ining duha sa pagbulig sa iya.
Pero wala magbuylog sa iya si Zadok nga pari, si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada, si Natan nga propeta, si Shimei, si Rei, kag ang mga badigard ni David.
Isa ka adlaw, nagkadto si Adonia sa Bato sang Zohelet malapit sa En Rogel, kag naghalad siya didto sang mga karnero, mga baka, kag pati mga ginpatambok nga bataon nga mga baka. Gin-imbitar niya ang halos tanan niya nga mga utod nga lalaki nga mga anak ni David, kag ang halos tanan nga opisyal sang Juda.
Sang madali na lang mapatay si David, may mga bilin siya kay Solomon nga iya anak. Amo ini ang iya mga bilin:
Sang ulihi napatay si David kag ginlubong sa iya banwa.
Naghari siya sa bilog nga Israel sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig—7 ka tuig sa Hebron kag 33 ka tuig sa Jerusalem.
Si Solomon ang nagbulos sa iya amay nga si David bilang hari, kag mabakod gid ang iya ginharian.
Karon, si Adonia nga anak ni Hagit nagkadto kay Batsheba nga iloy ni Solomon. Nagpamangkot si Batsheba sa iya, “Maayo bala ang imo tuyo sa pagkadto diri?” Nagsabat si Adonia, “Huo, maayo.
May ipangabay lang ako sa imo.” Nagpamangkot si Batsheba, “Ano bala ina?”
Nagsabat si Adonia, “Nahibaluan mo nga ako na kuntani ang hari, kag ginpaabot ini sang bilog nga Israel. Pero lain ang natabo; ang akon utod amo ang nangin hari, kay amo ina ang gusto sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Karon, may pangabay ako sa imo. Kag kon mahimo indi ako pagbalibari.” Nagpamangkot si Batsheba, “Ano bala ina?”
Nagsabat si Adonia, “Palihog pangabaya si Haring Solomon nga ipaasawa niya sa akon si Abishag nga taga-Shunem. Nahibaluan ko nga indi gid siya magbalibad sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Batsheba, “Sige, silingon ko ang hari.”
Gani nagkadto si Batsheba kay Haring Solomon sa paghambal sa iya parte sa ginpangabay ni Adonia. Pagkakita ni Solomon sa iya, Pagkakita ni Solomon sa iya, nagtindog si Solomon sa iya trono sa pagsugata sa iya, kag dayon nagluhod siya sa iya iloy bilang pagtahod sa iya bilang pagtahod sa iya . Pagkatapos nagpungko siya sa iya trono. Nagpakuha siya sang pulungkuan kag ginpabutang sa iya tuo, kag ginpapungko didto ang iya iloy.
“Madali na lang ako mapatay. Gani magpakabakod ka kag magpakaisog,
Nagsiling si Batsheba, “May ara ako sang gamay nga ipangabay sa imo. Kag palihog indi ako pagbalibari.” Nagsiling ang hari, “Ano ina, Nay? Indi ko ikaw pagbalibaran.”
Nagsiling si Batsheba, “Ipaasawa si Abishag nga taga-Shunem sa imo utod nga si Adonia.”
Nagsiling si Haring Solomon, “Ngaa ginapangabay mo gid nga ipaasawa si Abishag kay Adonia? Basi kon ipangabay mo man nga ihatag ko sa iya ang akon ginharian, kay magulang siya sa akon kag apin sa iya si Abiatar nga pari kag si Joab nga anak ni Zeruya!”
Dayon nagsumpa si Haring Solomon sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kabay pa nga silutan gid ako sang Dios kon indi ko mapatay si Adonia tungod sining iya ginpangabay.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagpili kag nagbutang sa akon sa trono sang akon amay nga si David. Gintuman niya ang iya promisa nga ihatag niya ang ginharian sa akon kag sa akon mga kaliwat. Gani nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga mapatay si Adonia subong gid nga adlaw.”
Dayon nagmando si Haring Solomon kay Benaya, nga anak ni Jehoyada, nga patyon si Adonia, kag ginpatay niya si Adonia.
Dayon nagsiling si Haring Solomon kay Abiatar nga pari, “Magpuli ka sa imo uma sa Anatot. Bagay ka man kuntani nga patyon, pero indi ko ikaw pagpatyon subong kay ikaw ang gintugyanan sang Kahon sang Ginoong Dios Dios sang kaupod ka pa sang akon amay nga si David, kag nagpakigbahin ka sa iya mga pag-antos.”
Gani ginpahalin ni Solomon si Abiatar sa iya katungdanan bilang pari sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag natuman ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Shilo parte sa panimalay ni Eli.
Si Joab wala nagbulig kay Absalom nga mangin hari, pero nagbulig siya kay Adonia. Gani sang mabalitaan niya ang pagkapatay ni Adonia, nagpalagyo siya pakadto sa tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo
Sang mabalitaan ni Haring Solomon nga nagpalagyo si Joab pakadto sa tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagpalapit sa halaran, ginsugo niya si Benaya nga patyon si Joab.
kag tumana ang mga ginapatuman sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios. Magsunod ka sa iya mga pamaagi, kag tumana ang iya mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo nga nasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises, para magmainuswagon ka sa tanan mo nga ginahimo, bisan diin ka magkadto.
Gani nagkadto si Benaya sa tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginsilingan si Joab, “Magguwa ka siling sang hari!” Pero nagsabat si Joab, “Indi ako magguwa; diri ako mapatay!” Nagbalik si Benaya sa hari kag ginsugid ang sabat ni Joab.
Siya kag ang iya mga kaliwat amo ang manabat hasta san-o sa kamatayon sang sini nga mga tawo. Pero ang akon amay nga ang akon amay nga si David kag ang iya mga kaliwat kag ang iya ginharian hatagan sang maayo nga kahimtangan
Gani ginkadtuan ni Benaya si Joab kag ginpatay. Ginlubong siya malapit malapit sa iya balay
Dayon ginhimo sang hari si Benaya nga kumander sang mga soldado sa pagbulos kay Joab. Kag ang ginbulos niya kay Abiatar amo si Zadok nga pari.
Karon, ginpatawag sang hari si Shimei kag ginsilingan, “Magpatindog ka sang imo kaugalingon nga balay sa Jerusalem kag mag-estar ka dira. Indi ka gid maghalin sa siyudad kag magkadto sa iban nga lugar.
Sa tion nga maghalin ka kag magtabok sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig, sigurado gid nga mapatay ka, kag ikaw mismo ang basulon kon matabo ini.”
Nagsabat si Shimei, “Maayo man ang imo ginsiling, tumanon ko gid ina!” Gani nag-estar si Shimei sa Jerusalem sa malawig nga tion.
Pero sang ikatatlo nga tuig, ang duha sa mga suluguon ni Shimei naglayas kag nagkadto sa hari sang Gat nga si Akish, nga anak ni Maaca. Sang mabalitaan ini ni Shimei,
Kon himuon mo ini, tumanon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginpromisa sa akon, nga kon ang akon mga kaliwat nagakabuhi sing husto kag nagasunod sa akon sing matutom sa bilog nila nga kabuhi, may isa gid permi sa ila nga magahari sa Israel.
gintakdan niya sang pulungkuan ang iya donkey kag nagsakay, kag nagsakay, kag nagkadto kay Akish sa Gat sa pagpangita sa iya duha ka suluguon. Nakita niya sila kag gindala puli.
Sang mabalitaan ni Solomon nga naghalin si Shimei sa Jerusalem kag nagkadto sa Gat, kag nakabalik na,
ginpatawag niya si Shimei kag ginsilingan, “Indi bala nga ginpasumpa ko ikaw sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginpaandaman nga sa tion nga maghalin ka sa Jerusalem kag magkadto sa iban nga lugar sigurado gid nga mapatay ka? Kag indi bala nga nagsiling ka nga maayo ang akon ginsiling kag tumanon mo ini?
Ti, ngaa wala mo gintuman ang imo ginsumpa sa Ginoo Ginoo ? Ngaa wala mo gintuman ang akon sugo sa imo?”
Nagsiling pa gid ang hari sa iya, “Sigurado nga nadumduman mo gid ang tanan nga malain nga ginhimo mo sa akon amay nga si David. Karon balusan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo malain nga mga ginhimo.
Pero ako pakamaayuhon sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ang ginharian sang akon amay nga si David padayon niya nga palig-unon hasta san-o.”
Nagbakod pa gid ang ginharian sa idalom sang pagdumala ni Solomon.
“Ari pa ang akon bilin sa imo: Nahibaluan mo kon ano ang ginhimo sa akon ni Joab nga anak ni Zeruya sa iya nga pagpatay sa duha ka kumander sang mga soldado sang Israel nga si Abner nga anak ni Ner kag si Amasa nga anak ni Jeter. Ginpatay niya sila nga daw sa mga kaaway, pero ginhimo niya ato sang panahon nga wala sing inaway. Siya ang may salabton sa ila kamatayon.
Gani himua ang nagakadapat sa iya suno sa imo hunahuna nga maayo himuon, pero indi pag-itugot nga mapatay siya sa katigulangon nga may kalinong.
“Pero magmaayo ka sa mga anak ni Barzilai nga taga-Gilead, kag pakan-a sila permi upod sa imo, kay ginbuligan nila ako sang nagpalagyo ako sa imo utod nga si Absalom.
“Tandaan mo gid si Shimei nga anak ni Gera, nga isa ka Benjaminhon nga taga-Bahurim. Puwerte gid ang iya pagpakamalaot sa akon sang nagkadto ako sa Mahanaim. Pero sang pagkitaay namon sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, nagsumpa ako sa iya sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi ko siya pagpatyon.
Pero karon, ikaw ang magsilot sa iya. Maalam ka, kag nahibaluan mo kon ano ang dapat nga himuon. Bisan tigulang na siya, ipapatay siya.”
Paagi sa pagpangasawa ni Solomon sa anak sang Faraon, ang hari sang Egypt, nangin kadampig siya sang amo nga nasyon. Gindala niya ang iya asawa sa Banwa ni David
Nalipay ang Ginoo sa ginpangayo ni Solomon.
Gani nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, “Tungod nga nagpangayo ka sang kaalam sa pagdumala sa akon katawhan kag wala ka nagpangayo sang malawig nga kabuhi ukon manggad ukon kamatayon sang imo mga kaaway,
ihatag ko sa imo ang imo ginpangayo. Hatagan ko ikaw sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi nga wala pa maangkon ni bisan sin-o sang una kag sa palaabuton nga panahon.
Hatagan ko man ikaw sang wala mo ginpangayo, nga amo ang manggad kag dungog, para wala sing hari nga makapareho sa imo sa bilog mo nga kabuhi.
Kag kon magsunod ka sa akon mga pamaagi kag magtuman sa akon mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo pareho sang ginhimo sang imo amay nga si David, hatagan ko ikaw sang malawig nga kabuhi.”
Nagbugtaw si Solomon, kag nareyalisar niya nga nagpakighambal ang Ginoo sa iya paagi sa damgo. Pagbalik ni Solomon sa Jerusalem, nagtindog siya sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Nagpapunsyon siya dayon para sa tanan niya nga mga opisyal.
Karon, may duha ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas nga nagkadto kay Haring Solomon Solomon .
Nagsiling ang isa sa ila, “Mahal nga Hari, ako kag ang babayi nga ini nagaestar sa isa lang ka balay. Kag samtang didto siya sa balay nagbata ako.
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw, siya naman ang nagbata. Kami lang gid nga duha sa balay kag wala na sing iban.
Isa ka gab-i, nahigdaan niya ang iya bata kag napatay ini.
Sadto nga tiyempo wala pa sing templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ang mga tawo nagahalad sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar.
Dayon sang mga tungang gab-i nagbangon siya kag ginkuha niya ang akon bata sa akon tupad samtang nagakatulog ako. Ginbutang niya ang akon bata sa iya tupad, kag ang iya bata nga patay na amo ang iya ginbutang sa akon tupad.
Pagkaaga, sang magbangon ako sa pagpatiti sang akon bata, nakita ko nga patay na ini. Pero sang ginhimutaran ko ang bata sa masanag, nasapwan ko nga indi gali siya ang akon bata.”
Nagsabat ang isa ka babayi, “Indi ina matuod! Akon ang buhi nga bata, kag ang patay imo.” Pero nagsiling ang una nga babayi, “Indi ina matuod! Imo ang patay nga bata, kag ang buhi akon.” Gani nagbaisay sila nga duha sa atubangan sang hari.
Nagsiling ang hari, “Ang kada isa sa inyo gusto mag-angkon sa buhi nga bata, kag wala sing isa sa inyo nga gusto mag-angkon sa patay nga bata.”
Gani nagmando ang hari nga dal-an siya sang espada. Kag sang gindal-an siya sang espada,
nagmando siya, “Pihaka ang buhi nga bata kag ang kada pihak ihatag sa ila nga duha.”
Tungod sa kaluoy sang matuod nga iloy sa iya bata, nagsiling siya sa hari, “Maluoy ka, Mahal nga Hari, indi pagpatya ang bata. Ihatag na lang siya sa sina nga babayi.” Pero nagsiling ang isa ka babayi, “Pihaka ang bata para wala sing isa sa amon nga makaangkon sa iya.”
Dayon nagsiling ang hari, “Indi pagpihaka ang bata. Ihatag ini sa babayi nga nagpakitluoy nga indi ini pagpatyon, kay siya ang matuod niya nga iloy.”
Sang mabatian sang katawhan sang Israel ang desisyon ni Haring Solomon, Solomon, dako gid ang ila pagtahod sa iya, tungod kay nakita nila nga may kaalam siya nga halin sa Dios sa paghukom sing husto.
Ginpakita ni Solomon ang iya paghigugma sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagtuman sang mga pagsulundan nga ginbilin sang iya amay nga si David. Ugaling naghalad siya sang mga halad kag nagsunog sang mga insenso sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar.
Isa ka tion, Isa ka tion, nagkadto si Haring Solomon sa Gibeon sa paghalad, kay ato didto ang pinakabantog nga simbahan sa mataas nga lugar. Naghalad siya sa halaran sing 1,000 ka halad nga ginasunog.
Pagkagab-i, nagpakita sa iya ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa damgo. Nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, “Pangayo sang bisan ano nga gusto mo nga ihatag ko sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Solomon, “Ginpakitaan mo sang dako nga kaayo ang akon amay nga si David, nga imo alagad, tungod kay matutom siya sa imo, matarong, kag husto ang iya pagkabuhi. Padayon mo nga ginpakita sa iya ang imo dako nga kaayo paagi sa paghatag sa iya sang isa ka anak nga amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari subong.
Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, ako nga imo alagad amo ang ginbulos mo sa akon amay nga si David bilang hari, bisan tuod bataon pa ako kag indi makahibalo magpangulo.
Kag karon ari ako upod sa katawhan nga imo ginpili nga indi maisip sa puwerte nga kadamo.
Gani hatagi ako sang kaalam sa pagdumala sang imo katawhan kag sa paghibalo kon ano ang maayo kag ang malain. Kay sin-o bala ang makasarang sa pagdumala sining imo katawhan nga puwerte kadamo?”
Naghari si Solomon sa bilog nga Israel.
Si Ben Hesed, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Arubot, lakip na diri ang Soco kag ang bilog nga duta sang Hefer.
Si Ben Abinadab, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Nafot Dor. (Bana siya ni Tafat nga anak ni Solomon.)
Si Baana nga anak ni Ahilud, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Taanac, Megido, sa bilog nga Bet Shean malapit sa Zaretan sa ubos sang Jezreel, kag sa mga lugar nga halin sa Bet Shean pakadto sa Abel Mehola kag sa tabok sang Jokmeam.
Si Ben Geber, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Ramot Gilead, lakip na diri ang mga banwa ni Jair nga anak ni Manase, kag sa mga distrito sang Argob sa Bashan, lakip na ang iya sini 60 ka dalagko nga mga banwa nga napalibutan sang mga pader, nga ang mga trangka sang mga puwertahan sini saway.
Si Ahinadab nga anak ni Iddo, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Mahanaim.
Si Ahimaaz, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Naftali. (Bana siya ni Basemat nga anak ni Solomon.)
Si Baana nga anak ni Hushai, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Asher kag sa Alot.
Si Jehoshafat nga anak ni Parua, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Isacar.
Si Shimei nga anak ni Ela, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Benjamin.
Si Geber nga anak ni Uri, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Gilead, nga sakop sadto ni Sihon nga hari sang mga Amornon kag ni Og nga hari sang Bashan. Si Geber lang ang gobernador sa sining bilog nga distrito.
Ang pangulo nga pangulo nga pari amo si Azaria nga kaliwat ni Zadok.
Ang kadamuon sang katawhan sang Juda kag Israel daw pareho sa balas sa baybayon. Bugana ang ila pagkaon kag ilimnon, kag malipayon sila.
Si Solomon ang nagadumala sa tanan nga ginharian halin sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates pakadto sa duta sang mga Filistinhon hasta sa border sang Egypt. Ini nga mga ginharian nagabayad sang ila buhis kay Solomon kag nagapasakop sa iya samtang buhi siya.
Ang kalan-on nga kinahanglanon ni Solomon sa iya palasyo sa iya palasyo kada adlaw amo ini: 100 ka sako nga maayo nga klase nga harina, 200 ka sako nga ordinaryo nga harina,
10 ka baka nga ginpatambok sa toril, 20 ka baka nga ginbuy-an lang sa palahalban, 100 ka karnero ukon kanding, wala labot sang nagkalain-lain nga klase sang mga usa, kag maayo nga klase sang mga pispis kag mga manok.
Sakop ni Solomon ang bilog nga duta sa west sang Suba sang Euphrates, sang Euphrates, halin sa Tifsa hasta sa Gaza. Kag maayo ang iya relasyon sa tanan nga nasyon sa iya palibot.
Gani samtang nagakabuhi si Solomon, may kalinong sa Juda kag sa Israel halin sa Dan hasta sa Beersheba. Ang kada tawo nagapungko sa idalom sang iya tanom nga ubas kag kahoy nga higera nga may kalinong.
May 40,000
Ang mga gobernador sa mga distrito amo ang nagahatag sang kunsomo ni Haring Solomon kag sang tanan nga ara sa palasyo. Ang kada isa sa ila may turno sa paghatag kada bulan. Ginasiguro gid nila nga mahatag nila ang mga kinahanglanon ni Solomon.
Nagahatag man sila sang barley kag kumpay para sa mga kabayo nga pangkarwahe kag sa iban pa nga mga kabayo. Ginadala nila ini sa lugar nga dapat sini dal-an sa tion sang ila turno.
Ginhatagan sang Dios si Solomon sang pinasahi nga kaalam kag pag-intiendi, kag ihibalo nga indi matungkad.
Ang nagadumala sang mga kasulatan sang ginharian amo si Jehoshafat nga anak ni Ahilud.
Ang iya kaalam labaw pa sa kaalam sang tanan nga maalamon sa east kag sa Egypt.
Siya ang pinakamaalam sa tanan. Mas maalam pa siya sang sa kay Etan nga Ezranhon, kag sa mga anak ni Mahol nga sila ni Heman, Calcol, kag Darda. Kag nangin bantog siya sa palibot nga mga nasyon.
Naghimo siya sang 3,000 ka hulubaton kag 1,005 ka kanta.
Makasugid siya parte sa tanan nga klase sang mga tanom, halin sa dalagko nga mga kahoy hasta sa magagmay nga mga tanom.
Nabatian sang tanan nga hari sa kalibutan ang kaalam ni Solomon, gani nagpadala sila sang mga tawo sa pagpamati sa iya kaalam.
Ang mga pari amo si Zadok kag si Abiatar.
Ang personal nga manuglaygay sang hari amo si Zabud nga pari, nga anak man ni Natan.
Kag ang nagadumala sa mga ulipon nga ginapilit sa pag-obra amo si Adoniram nga anak ni Abda.
May ara man si Solomon sang dose ka gobernador sa mga distrito sang bilog nga Israel. Sila ang nagahatag sang pagkaon sang hari kag sang iya panimalay. Kada isa sa ila nagahatag sang pagkaon sa isa ka bulan kada tuig.
Si Ben Hur, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa kabukiran sang Efraim.
Si Ben Deker, nga nagadumala nga nagadumala sa Makaz, Shaalbim, Bet Shemesh, kag sa Elon Bet Hanan.
Dugay na nga mag-amigohay si Haring Hiram sang Tyre kag si Haring David. Gani sang mabalitaan ni Hiram nga ginbuslan ni Solomon ang iya amay nga si David bilang hari, nagpadala siya sang mga opisyal kay Solomon.
Gani ginpadal-an ni Hiram si Solomon sang tanan nga kahoy nga sedro kag sipres nga iya ginakinahanglan.
Kag ginpadal-an man ni Solomon si Hiram sang 60,000 ka sako nga trigo kag 110,000 ka galon nga lana sang olibo kada tuig.
Ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Solomon sang kaalam suno sa iya ginpromisa. Maayo ang relasyon ni Solomon kag ni Hiram, kag naghimo sila sang kasugtanan nga indi gid sila mag-inaway nga indi gid sila mag-inaway .
Karon, ginpilit ni Haring Solomon sa pagpaobra ang 30,000 ka tawo halin sa bilog nga Israel.
Ginpadala niya ang tag-10,000 sa ila sa Lebanon kada bulan. Gani ang kada grupo isa ka bulan sa Lebanon kag duha ka bulan sa ila lugar. Si Adoniram amo ang pangulo sang sini nga mga trabahador.
May 70,000 ka tawo si Solomon nga manughakot sang mga materyales kag 80,000 ka tawo nga manugbasbas sang mga bato sa bukid.
May ara man siya nga 3,300 ka porman nga nagadumala sa trabaho kag sa mga trabahador.
Kag sa iya mando, nagbasbas sila sang dalagko kag maayo nga klase sang mga bato para sa pundasyon sang templo.
Gani ginpreparar sang mga tinawo ni Solomon kag ni Hiram kaupod sang mga pumuluyo sang Gebal
Dayon nagpadala si Solomon sang mensahi kay Hiram:
“Nahibaluan mo nga wala nakapatindog ang akon amay nga si David sang templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, tungod kay permi lang siya nagapakig-away sa iya mga kaaway nga mga nasyon sa palibot. Indi siya makapatindog hasta nga mapapierdi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya ang tanan niya nga kaaway.
Pero karon ginhatagan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios sang kalinong sa palibot; wala na ako sing mga kaaway kag wala na man sing katalagman.
Gani nagahunahuna ako nga magpatindog na sang templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon amay nga si David. Amo ini ang iya ginsiling kay David: ‘Ang imo anak nga akon pabuslon sa imo bilang hari amo ang magapatindog sang templo para sa akon.’
“Gani magsugo ka sang imo mga tinawo sa pagpang-utod sang mga kahoy nga sedro sa Lebanon para sa akon. Pabuligon ko sa ila ang akon mga tinawo, kag suhulan ko ang imo mga tinawo suno sa gusto mo. Kay nahibaluan mo man nga wala gid diri sa amon sang maayo magpang-utod sang mga kahoy nga pareho sang imo mga tinawo nga taga-Sidon.”
Nalipay gid si Hiram sang mabaton niya ang mensahi ni Solomon. Nagsiling siya, “Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo sa sini nga adlaw, tungod kay ginhatagan niya si David sang maalam nga anak sa pagdumala sang gamhanan nga nasyon!”
“Nabaton ko ang imo ginpadala nga mensahi, kag ihatag ko sa imo ang kinahanglanon nga mga kahoy nga sedro kag sipres.
Hakuton ini sang akon mga tinawo halin sa Lebanon hasta sa dagat, kag ila ini pangtabiron nga daw sa balsa kag palutawon pakadto sa lugar nga imo gusto. Kag didto bungkagon ini sang akon mga tinawo kag kamo na ang bahala nga magkuha sini. Bilang bayad, hatagan mo ako sang pagkaon para sa akon mga tinawo sa palasyo.”
Nagsugod si Solomon sa pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang ikaduha nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Ziv, sadtong ikaapat nga tuig sang iya paghari sa Israel. Ika-480 nga tuig ato halin sang pagkahilway sang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.
Kag ang mga kuwarto sa mga kilid kag likod sang templo nga ang kataason 7 feet kag 6 inches gin-angot sa templo paagi man sa mga kahoy nga sedro.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Solomon,
Natapos gid man ni Solomon ang pagpatindog sang templo.
Ang sa sulod nga dingding sang templo nahaklapan sang tapi nga sedro halin sa salog hasta sa kisame, kag ang salog kahoy nga sipres.
Nagpahimo siya sang duha ka kuwarto sa sulod sang templo paagi sa pagbutang sang debisyon halin sa salog hasta sa kisame. Ang gin-gamit nga debisyon tapi nga sedro. Ang kuwarto sa likod dampi sang templo gintawag nga Labing Balaan nga Lugar, kag ang kalabaon sini 30 feet.
Ang kalabaon naman sang kuwarto sa guwa sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar 60 feet.
Ang bilog nga dingding sa sulod sang templo nahaklapan sang tapi nga sedro, gani indi makita ang mga bato sa dingding. May mga ginkorti sa dingding nga mga bulak nga nagabuskad kag mga nagagapa nga mga tanom.
Ginpreparar ni Solomon ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar sa sulod sang templo para didto ibutang ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang kalabaon sang templo nga ginpatindog ni Haring Solomon para sa Ginoo Ginoo 90 feet, ang iya kasangkaron 30 feet, kag ang iya kataason 45 feet.
Ini nga kuwarto kuwadrado; ang iya kalabaon, kasangkaron, kag kataason pareho nga 30 feet. Ang mga dingding kag kisame sini ginpahaklapan ni Solomon sang puro nga bulawan, kag amo man ang halaran nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sedro.
Ang iban nga parte sang sulod sang templo ginpahaklapan man niya sang puro nga bulawan. Nagpahimo siya sang bulawan nga kadena kag ginpahigot niya ini pabalabag sa alagyan nga pasulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar.
Gani nahaklapan tanan sang bulawan ang sulod sang templo pati ang halaran nga ara sa sulod sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar.
Nagpabutang si Solomon sa sulod sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar sang duha ka kerubin nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga olibo, nga ang kada isa 15 feet ang kataason.
Ginpatupad sila ni Solomon sa sulod sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar nga nagahumlad ang ila mga pakpak. Ang pihak nila nga pakpak nagatanduganay, kag natuon ini sa tunga sang kuwarto. Kag ang pihak pa gid nila nga pakpak nagatandog sa dingding.
Ginpahaklapan man ni Solomon sang bulawan ining duha ka kerubin.
Ang tanan nga dingding sa duha ka kuwarto sang templo ginpakortihan ni Solomon sang mga kerubin, mga palma, kag mga bulak nga nagabuskad.
Ang kasangkaron sang balkon
Bisan ang salog sa duha ka kuwarto ginpahaklapan man niya sang bulawan.
Ang alagyan pasulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar may duha ka sira nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga olibo, kag may mga hamba
Ini nga mga sira ginpakortihan ni Solomon sang mga kerubin, mga palma, kag mga bulak nga nagabuskad, kag ginpahaklapan sang bulawan.
Ang alagyan nga pasulod sa templo ginpahimuan man ni Solomon sang rektanggulo nga mga hamba nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga olibo.
May duha man ini ka sira nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sipres, kag ang kada isa sini may duha ka parte nga puwede mapilo-pilo.
Ginpakortihan man ini ni Solomon sang mga kerubin, mga palma, kag mga bulak nga nagabuskad, kag ginpahaklapan sing palareho nga kadamulon sang bulawan.
Ginpahimo man niya ang sa sulod nga ugsaran sang templo sang templo . Napalibutan ini sang pader nga ang kada tatlo ka sampaw sang mga bato sini nga nabasbasan nasampawan sang kahoy nga sedro.
Napatindog ang pundasyon sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang ikaduha nga bulan, nga amo ang ikaduha nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Ziv, sadtong ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Solomon sang paghari ni Solomon .
Natapos ang templo sang ikawalo nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Bul, sadtong ikaonse nga tuig sang paghari ni Solomon sang paghari ni Solomon . Pito ka tuig ang pagpatindog sang templo, kag ginsunod gid ang mga detalye sini suno sa plano.
Ginpahimuan man ni Solomon ang templo sang mga bintana nga nagapagamay halin sa sulod paguwa.
Nagpahimo man siya sang mga kuwarto sa mga kilid kag sa likod sang templo. Ini nga mga kuwarto may tatlo ka panalgan, kag nagatapik sa dingding sang templo.
Ang kasangkaron sang nahauna nga panalgan 7 feet kag 6 inches, ang ikaduha nga panalgan 9 feet, kag ang ikatlo nga panalgan 10 feet kag 6 inches. Ang dingding sang templo nagaamat-amat nipis sa kada panalgan para makatungtong ang mga kuwarto sa dingding nga indi na kinahanglan sang mga sintas.
Sang ginpatindog ang templo, ang mga bato nga gin-gamit ginsapsapan na nga daan sa ginkuhaan sini, gani wala na sing may mabatian nga pukpok sang mga martilyo, sinsil, ukon sang bisan ano nga gamit nga salsalon.
Ang alagyan pasulod sa nahauna nga panalgan ara dampi sa south sang templo. May mga hagdanan pakadto sa ikaduha kag ikatlo nga panalgan.
Sang nabutang na ang mga dingding sang templo, ginpabutangan ini ni Solomon sang kisame nga ang mga tapi sedro.
Nagpatindog man si Solomon sang iya palasyo, kag 13 ka tuig ang pagpatindog sini.
Ang mga pundasyon hinimo halin sa dalagko kag maayo nga klase sang mga bato. Ang kalabaon sang iban nga mga bato 15 feet, kag ang iban 12 feet.
Nasampawan ini sang mga kahoy nga sedro kag malahalon nga mga bato nga ginbasbasan suno sa husto nga takos.
Ang malapad nga ugsaran napalibutan sang pader. Ang kada tatlo ka sampaw sang mga bato sini nga nabasbasan nasampawan sang kahoy nga sedro. Pareho man sini ang pagkahimo sang mga pader sang sulod nga ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang balkon.
Ginpasugat ni Haring Solomon si Huram
kay maayo gid siya nga panday sang mga saway. Anak siya sang isa ka balo nga babayi nga halin sa tribo ni Naftali, kag ang iya amay taga-Tyre, nga isa man ka panday sang mga saway. Nagkadto siya kay Haring Solomon kag ginhimo niya ang tanan nga ginpahimo sa iya.
Naghimo si Huram sang duha ka haligi nga saway, nga ang kada isa may kataason nga 27 feet, kag may takos palibot nga 18 feet.
Naghimo man siya sang duha ka saway nga ulo-ulo sang mga haligi, nga ang kada isa may kataason nga 7 feet kag 6 inches.
Ang kada ulo-ulo nadekorasyunan sang pito ka kulokadena nga nagatinabid,
nga may duha ka raya sang puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata.
Ang korte sang mga ulo-ulo sang mga haligi sa balkon daw mga bulak nga bulak nga lily, kag ang ila kataason 6 feet.
Ang kada ulo-ulo sang duha ka haligi napalibutan sang duha ka raya sang puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata nga 200 ka bilog. Ini nga dekorasyon ara sa ibabaw sang tipulon nga parte sang ulo-ulo, sa tupad sang mga kulokadena.
Ginpatindog ni Huram ang mga haligi sa balkon sang templo. Ang haligi sa south gin-ngalanan niya nga Jakin, kag ang haligi sa north gin-ngalanan niya nga Boaz.
Ang korte sang mga ulo-ulo sang mga haligi daw mga lily. Kag natapos ang paghimo sang mga haligi.
Dayon naghimo si Huram sang dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga daw kawa, nga ginatawag ginatawag Dagat. Ang kadalumon sini 7 feet kag 6 inches, ang kasangkaron 15 feet, kag ang takos palibot 45 feet.
Napalibutan ini sang duha ka raya sang dekorasyon sa ubos lang sang baba sini. Ini nga dekorasyon daw sa mga nagagapa nga tanom, kag may ara sang anom sini sa kada 1 foot palibot, kag naporma na ini nga daan upod sa suludlan sang pagkahimo sini.
Nagatungtong ang suludlan sa likod sang dose ka turo nga baka nga saway nga saway nga nagatalikdanay. Ang tatlo ka baka nagaatubang sa north, ang tatlo sa west, ang tatlo sa south, kag ang tatlo sa east.
Ang kadamulon sang suludlan 3 inches, kag ang baba sini daw pareho sa baba sang tasa nga nagakurba paguwa nagakurba paguwa pareho sa nagabuskad nga lily. Kag puwede ini masudlan sang mga 11,000 ka galon nga tubig.
Naghimo man si Huram sang napulo ka karo nga saway nga ginagamit sa paghakot sang tubig. Ang kalabaon sang kada isa 6 feet, ang kasangkaron 6 feet man, kag ang kataason 4 feet kag 6 inches.
Amo sini ang pagkahimo sang mga karo: ang mga dingding sini may mga kuwadro-kuwadro
kag nadekorasyunan sang dagway sang mga leon, mga turo nga baka, kag mga kerubin. Ang ibabaw kag ang idalom sang mga kuwadro-kuwadro palareho nga nadekorasyunan sang daw mga bulak.
Sa idalom sang kuwadrado nga mga dingding may apat ka rueda nga naangot sa mga ehe nga naporma na nga daan upod sa karo sang pagkahimo sini. Ang kataason sang kada rueda 2 ¼ feet,
kag pareho ini sa rueda sang karwahe. Ang mga ehe, mga tubo, mga radyos, kag mga yantas
Ang kada karo may apat ka uluyatan—isa sa kada kilid, kag naporma na ini nga daan upod sa karo sang pagkahimo sini.
Ang bibi sang ibabaw sang kada karo 6 inches ang kasangkaron palibot. Ang mga panukod sini kag ang dingding sang karo naporma na nga daan upod sa karo sang pagkahimo sini.
Gin-inggreban ang mga dingding kag mga panukod sang mga dagway sang mga kerubin, mga leon kag mga kahoy nga palma bisan diin nga may lugar para sini. Kag gin-inggreban man ini sang daw gin-inggreban man ini sang daw mga bulak nga nagatalabid palibot.
Amo ato ang pagkahimo ni Huram sang napulo ka karo. Pareho tanan ang ila kadakuon kag korte, kay isa lang ka hurmahan ang ginpormahan sa ila.
Naghimo man si Huram sang napulo ka saway nga mga labador, isa para sa kada karo. Ang kasangkaron sang kada labador 6 feet, kag puwede masudlan sing mga 220 ka galon nga tubig.
Ginbutang niya ang lima ka karo sa south sang templo, kag ang lima sa north. Ginbutang niya ang suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag Dagat sa south, sa may southeast nga corner sang templo.
Ang duha ka kilid sang building nga nagaatubangay may tig-tatlo ka bintana nga nagasunod.
Natapos gid man ni Huram ang tanan nga ginpahimo sa iya ni Haring Solomon para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Amo ini ang iya mga ginhimo: Amo ini ang iya mga ginhimo:
ang duha ka nagatinabid nga mga kulokadena nga dekorasyon sa mga ulo-ulo sang mga haligi;
ang 400 ka puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata (Nagakabit ang duha ka raya sini sa kada nagatinabid nga mga kulokadena nga nagapalibot sa ulo-ulo sang mga haligi);
ang napulo ka karo kag ang napulo ka labador sini;
ang suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag Dagat kag ang tulungtungan sini nga dose ka turo nga baka;
Ini tanan nga butang nga para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginhimo ni Huram para kay Haring Solomon, puro saway nga ginpahining.
Ginpahimo ini ni Haring Solomon paagi sa hurmahan nga didto sa Kapatagan sang Jordan, sa tunga sang Sucot kag Zaretan.
Madamo ini nga mga butang, gani wala na lang ini ni Solomon ginpakilo; wala nahibaluan kon pila ka kilo ini nga mga saway.
ang bulawan nga lamisa nga ginabutangan sang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios;
ang bulawan nga mga bulak, mga suga, kag mga kimpit;
May tig-tatlo man ini ka rektanggulo nga mga puwertahan
ang bulawan nga mga bisagra para sa mga puwertahan sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar kag sang templo mismo.
Sang matapos ang tanan nga ginpahimo ni Haring Solomon para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , gindala niya sa mga bodega sang templo ang mga butang nga gindedikar sang iya amay nga si David—ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, kag mga kagamitan.
Ang isa pa ka building amo ang lugar nga tilipunan nga may madamo nga haligi. Ang kalabaon sini 75 feet, kag ang kasangkaron 45 feet. May balkon ini sa atubangan nga may atop kag may mga haligi.
May ara man siya nga ginpahimo nga building nga sa diin ginbutang niya ang iya trono. Amo man ini ang lugar nga sa diin siya nagahukom. Ginpahaklapan niya ini sang mga tapi nga sedro halin sa salog hasta sa kisame.
Ang parte sang palasyo nga sa diin nagaestar si Solomon ara lang sa likod sang building nga sa diin siya nagahukom, kag pareho ang pagkahimo sini. Pareho man sini ang hitsura sang balay nga iya ginpahimo para sa iya asawa nga anak sang hari sang Egypt.
Ini tanan nga building, halin sa ila mga pundasyon hasta sa ila mga atop, hinimo halin sa pinakamaayo nga mga bato nga ginpang-utod kag ginbasbasan ang tanan nga kilid suno sa husto nga takos.
Ginpatawag ni Haring Solomon sa Jerusalem ang mga manugdumala sang Israel kag ang tanan nga pangulo sang mga tribo kag mga pamilya sa Israel, sa pagkuha sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa Zion, ang Banwa ni David.
Sang nagguwa ang mga pari sa Balaan nga Lugar, may panganod nga naglikop sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi na makahimo ang mga pari sang ila buluhaton sa templo sa templo tungod sang panganod, kay ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo naglikop sa iya templo.
Dayon nagpangamuyo si Solomon, “ Ginoo Ginoo nagsiling ka nga mapuyo ka sa gal-om.
Karon nakapahimo na ako sang matahom gid nga templo para sa imo, nga sa diin makapuyo ka hasta san-o.”
Dayon nag-atubang si Haring Solomon Solomon sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel nga nagatindog didto, kag ginbendisyunan niya sila.
Nagsiling siya, “Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel. Gintuman niya ang iya ginpromisa sa akon amay nga si David. Nagsiling siya sadto,
‘Halin sang tion nga ginpaguwa ko ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon sa Egypt, wala ako nagpili sang siyudad sa bisan ano nga tribo sang Israel para patindugan sang templo para sa akon kadungganan. Ang akon ginhimo, ginpili ko si David nga magdumala sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.’
“Gusto gid sang akon amay nga si David nga magpatindog sang templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, ‘Maayo man ina nga nagahandom ka gid sa pagpatindog sang templo para sa akon kadungganan.
Pero indi ikaw ang magapatindog sini kundi ang imo mismo anak. Siya ang magapatindog sang templo para sa akon kadungganan.’
Nagkadto sila tanan kay Haring Solomon sang tion sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag, sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag, sang bulan sang Etanim, nga amo ang ikapito nga bulan.
“Gintuman sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginpromisa. Ako ang nagbulos sa akon amay nga si David bilang hari sang Israel, suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag ginpatindog ko ang templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Nagpahimo gid ako sang lugar didto sa templo para sa Kahon nga sa diin nabutang ang kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya ginhimo sa aton mga katigulangan sang ginpaguwa niya sila sa Egypt.”
Sa presensya sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel, nagtindog si Solomon sa atubangan sang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginbayaw niya ang iya mga kamot
kag nagpangamuyo, “O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, wala sing Dios nga pareho sa imo sa langit ukon sa duta. Ginatuman mo ang imo kasugtanan, kag ginapakita mo ang imo gugma sa imo mga alagad nga nagasunod sa imo sa bug-os nila nga tagipusuon.
Gintuman mo ang imo ginpromisa sa imo alagad nga si David nga akon amay. Ikaw mismo ang nagpromisa sina, kag ikaw man mismo ang nagtuman sina subong nga adlaw.
Kag karon, Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, tumana pa gid ang imo ginpromisa sa imo alagad nga si David nga akon amay sang nagsiling ka sa iya, ‘Indi ka madulaan sang kaliwat nga magabulos sa imo bilang hari sa Israel kon maayo lang ang pagsunod sang imo mga kaliwat sa akon, pareho sang imo ginhimo.’
Gani karon, O Dios sang Israel, tumana ang imo ginpromisa sa imo alagad nga si David nga akon amay.
“Pero makaestar gid bala ikaw, O Dios, diri sa kalibutan? Indi gani ikaw makaigo sa langit, bisan sa pinakamataas nga parte sang langit, ano pa ayhan sa templo nga ginpatindog ko?
Pero pamatii ako nga imo alagad sa akon pagpangamuyo kag pagpakitluoy. O Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, pamatii ang akon pagpanawag kag pagpangamuyo sa imo presensya subong.
Kabay pa nga bantayan mo ining templo adlaw-gab-i, ining lugar nga nagsiling ka nga diri ikaw padunggan. Kabay pa nga pamatian mo ako nga imo alagad sa akon pagpangamuyo nga nagaatubang sa sini nga lugar.
Pamatii ang akon mga pangabay kag ang mga pangabay sang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon samtang nagapangamuyo kami nga nagaatubang sa sini nga lugar. Pamatii kami dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit. Kag kon mabatian mo kami, patawara kami.
“Kon ang isa ka tawo gin-akusar nga nakasala sa iya isigkatawo, kag ginpakadto siya sa imo halaran sa sini nga templo sa pagsumpa nga inosente siya, nga inosente siya,
pamatii ini nga kaso dira sa langit kag hukmi ang imo mga alagad. Siluti ang nakasala suno sa iya binuhatan, kag hilwaya ang wala sing sala para magaguwa nga inosente siya.
“Kon ang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon mapierdi sang ila mga kaaway tungod kay nakasala sila sa imo, kag kon magbalik sila sa imo kag magdayaw sa imo kag magpangamuyo sa sini nga templo,
pamatii sila dira sa langit. Patawara sila sa ila sala kag dal-a sila pabalik sa duta nga ginhatag mo sa ila mga katigulangan.
“Kon indi mo pagpaulanon tungod kay nakasala sa imo ang imo katawhan, kag kon magpangamuyo sila nga nagaatubang sa sini nga lugar kag magdayaw sa imo, kag maghinulsol sa ila mga sala tungod kay ginsilutan mo sila,
pamatii sila dira sa langit. Patawara sila nga imo mga alagad, ang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Tudlui sila sang matarong nga pagkabuhi, kag padal-i sang ulan ang duta nga imo ginhatag sa ila nga ila panag-iyahan.
“Kon may mag-abot nga gutom sa duta sang imo katawhan, sang imo katawhan, ukon kahalitan, ukon mainit nga hangin, ukon peste sa mga tanom pati na mga apan kag mga ulod, ukon kibunon sila sang mga kaaway sa bisan diin sa ila mga banwa, ukon mag-abot sa ila ang bisan ano nga balatian,
kag kon may ara sa ila nga magpangamuyo ukon magpangabay sa imo, pamatii sila pamatii sila . Kon ginakilala nila nga tungod sa ila mga sala nag-abot ining mga pag-antos sa ila, kag magpangamuyo sila nga nagabayaw sang ila mga kamot, nga nagaatubang sa sini nga templo,
pamatii sila dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit. Patawara sila, kag himua sa kada isa sa ila ang nagakabagay sa ila mga binuhatan, kay nahibaluan mo ang ila tagipusuon. Matuod nga ikaw gid lang ang nakahibalo sang tagipusuon sang tanan nga tawo.
Himua ina Himua ina para magtahod sila sa imo samtang nagakabuhi sila sa duta nga ginhatag mo sa amon mga katigulangan.
pamatii sila dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit. Kag himua ang bisan ano nga ila ginapangabay, para ang tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan makakilala sa imo kag magtahod sa imo pareho sang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon, kag para mahibaluan nila nga ginapadunggan ka sa templo nga akon ginpatindog.
“Kon ang imo katawhan magalakat sa pagpakig-away suno sa imo mando, kag kon magpangamuyo sila sa imo nga nagaatubang sa sini nga siyudad nga imo ginpili kag sa templo nga akon ginpatindog para sa imo kadungganan,
pamatii ang ila mga pangamuyo kag mga pangabay dira sa langit, kag hatagi sila sang kadalag-an.
Kon makasala sila sa imo—kay wala man sing bisan sin-o nga wala nagakasala—kag sa imo kaakig ginpapierdi mo sila sa ila mga kaaway kag ginbihag nila sila sa malayo ukon sa malapit nga lugar,
kag kon sa ulihi magbag-o ang ila mga tagipusuon didto, kag maghinulsol sila kag magpakitluoy sa imo nga nagasiling, ‘Nakasala kami, kag malain ang amon mga ginhimo,’
pamatii ang ila pangamuyo pamatii ang ila pangamuyo . Kon magbalik sila sa imo sa bug-os nila nga tagipusuon kag hunahuna didto sa lugar sang ila mga kaaway nga nagbihag sa ila, kag magpangamuyo sila sa imo nga nagaatubang sa sini nga duta nga ginhatag mo sa ila mga katigulangan, sa sini nga siyudad nga imo ginpili, kag sa templo nga akon ginpatindog para sa imo kadungganan,
pamatii ang ila mga pangamuyo kag mga pangabay dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit, kag hatagi sila sang kadalag-an.
Naghalad si Haring Solomon kag ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan . Puwerte gid kadamo sang karnero kag baka nga ila ginhalad; indi ini maisip.
Patawara sila sa ila mga sala kag mga paglapas kontra sa imo, kag tuguti nga maluoy sa ila ang mga nagbihag sa ila.
Kay katawhan mo sila nga imo ginapanag-iyahan. Ginpaguwa mo sila sa Egypt, ang lugar nga pareho sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan nga tunawan sang salsalon.
“Kabay pa nga talupangdon mo ang akon mga pangabay kag ang mga pangabay sang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon, kag kabay pa nga pamatian mo sila kon magpangayo sila sang bulig sa imo.
Kay ginpili mo sila, Ginoong Dios Dios , sa tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan bilang katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan, suno sa ginsiling mo paagi kay Moises nga imo alagad, sang ginpaguwa mo ang amon mga katigulangan sa Egypt.”
Sang matapos ni Solomon ang iya mga pangamuyo kag mga pangabay sa Ginoo Ginoo , nagtindog siya sa atubangan sang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa diin nagluhod siya nga nagabayaw sang iya mga kamot sa langit.
Sa mabaskog nga tingog, ginbendisyunan niya ang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel. Siling niya,
“Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga naghatag sang kapahuwayan sa iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon suno sa iya ginpromisa. Gintuman gid niya ang tanan nga ginpromisa niya kay Moises nga iya alagad.
Kabay pa nga updan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios pareho sang iya pag-upod sa aton mga katigulangan. Kabay pa nga indi niya kita pag-isikway ukon pagpabay-an.
Kabay pa nga himuon niya kita nga matinumanon sa iya para magkabuhi kita suno sa iya mga pamaagi, kag magtuman sang iya mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga iya ginhatag sa aton mga katigulangan.
Kag kabay pa nga dumdumon permi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, adlaw-gab-i, ining akon mga pangamuyo. Kabay pa nga buligan niya ako kag ang iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon, suno sa ila kinahanglanon kada adlaw,
Dayon gindala sang mga pari ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa lugar sini didto sa pinakasulod sang templo, sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, sa may idalom sang mga pakpak sang mga kerubin.
para mahibaluan sang tanan nga katawhan sa bilog nga kalibutan nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Dios kag wala na sing iban pa.
Kag kabay pa nga kamo nga mga Israelinhon nga mga Israelinhon magmatutom gid sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios. Tumana ninyo ang iya mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo pareho sang inyo ginahimo subong.”
Dayon naghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo si Haring Solomon kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon nga kaupod niya.
Naghalad sila sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Ang kadamuon sini 22,000 ka baka kag 120,000 ka karnero kag kanding. Sa sini nga paagi, gindedikar sang hari kag sang mga Israelinhon ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa amo man nga adlaw, gindedikar sang hari ang ugsaran nga ara sa atubangan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Naghalad sila didto sang mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga regalo, kag mga tambok nga bilang halad para sa maayo nga relasyon. Kay ang saway nga halaran nga ara man sa atubangan sang templo tama kagamay para sa sini nga mga halad.
Nagsaulog si Solomon kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag . Madamo gid nga mga katawhan ang nagtilipon halin sa Lebo Hamat sa north sa north hasta sa ililigan sang tubig sang Egypt sa south sa south . Ang ila selebrasyon sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila
Pagkatapos sang Piesta
Nagahumlad ang mga pakpak sang mga kerubin, gani natabunan ang Kahon kag ang iya sini nga mga tukon nga pangtuwang.
Ini nga mga tukon puwerte kalaba, nga ang iya mga punta makita sa Balaan nga Lugar, sa atubangan sang pinakasulod sang templo, pero indi ini makita sa guwa sang Balaan nga Lugar. Kag ari pa ini hasta subong.
Wala sing iban nga sulod ang Kahon luwas sa duha ka malapad nga mga bato nga ginbutang ni Moises sang didto siya sa Horeb, sa diin ang Ginoo Ginoo naghimo sang kasugtanan sa mga Israelinhon sang nagguwa sila sa Egypt.
Natapos ni Solomon ang pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya palasyo, kag sang iban pa nga iya ginplano nga himuon.
Pagkatapos sang 20 ka tuig nga pagpatindog ni Solomon sang duha ka building—ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang palasyo,
ginhatag niya ang 20 ka banwa sa Galilea kay Haring Hiram sang Tyre. Ginhimo niya ini tungod kay ginsuplayan siya ni Hiram sang tanan nga kahoy nga sedro kag sipres, kag sang bulawan nga iya ginkinahanglan.
Pero sang nagkadto si Hiram sa Galilea sa Galilea halin sa Tyre sa pagtan-aw sang mga banwa nga ginhatag sa iya ni Solomon, wala siya malipay sini.
Gani nagsiling siya kay Solomon, “Utod ko, ano nga klase sang mga banwa ining ginhatag mo sa akon?” Gintawag ni Hiram ato nga mga duta nga Cabul,
Nagpadala sadto si Hiram kay Solomon sing mga lima ka tonelada nga bulawan.
Amo ini ang estorya parte sa pagtipon ni Haring Solomon sang mga tawo nga iya ginpilit nga mag-obra sa pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya palasyo, sa pagtampok sang manubo nga parte sang banwa,
(Ining Gezer ginsalakay kag gin-agaw sang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt. Ginsunog niya ini kag ginpamatay ang mga pumuluyo sini nga mga Canaanhon. Ginhatag niya ini nga banwa sa iya anak nga babayi bilang regalo sa iya kasal kay Solomon.
Kag ginpatindog liwat ni Solomon ining Gezer.) Ginpatindog man ni Solomon ang idalom nga parte sang Bet Horon,
ang Baalat, ang Tamar
kag ang tanan nga banwa nga bulutangan sang iya mga bodega, mga karwahe, kag mga kabayo. Ginpatindog niya ang tanan nga luyag niya patindugon sa Jerusalem, sa Lebanon, kag sa tanan nga duta nga sakop niya.
Dayon nagpakita liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya pareho sang iya ginhimo sadto sa Gibeon.
Pero wala paghimua ni Solomon nga ulipon ang bisan sin-o nga Israelinhon. Sa baylo, ginhimo niya sila nga iya mga soldado, mga opisyal, mga pangulo sang mga soldado, mga kumander sang iya mga karwahe, kag mga manugkabayo.
Ang 550 sa ila ginhimo ni Solomon nga mga opisyal nga nagadumala sang mga nagaobra sa iya mga proyekto.
Sang matapos na ang palasyo nga ginpahimo ni Solomon para sa iya asawa nga anak sang hari sang Egypt,
Gani natapos ni Solomon ang pagpatindog sang templo.
Nagpahimo pa gid si Solomon sang mga barko sa Ezion Geber, malapit sa Elat
Nagpadala si Hiram sang mga eksperiensyado nga mga marino sa pagbiyahe upod sa mga tinawo ni Solomon.
Nagbiyahe sila sa Ofir; kag sang pagbalik nila may dala sila nga mga 15 ka tonelada nga bulawan, kag gindala nila ini kay Haring Solomon.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Nabatian ko ang imo pangamuyo kag pangabay sa akon. Ining templo nga ginpatindog mo ginpili ko bilang lugar nga sa diin padunggan ako hasta san-o. Bantayan ko ini kag atipanon permi.
Kag ikaw, kon magkabuhi ka nga masaligan kag matarong sa akon atubangan pareho sang imo amay nga si David, kag kon himuon mo ang tanan nga ginapahimo ko sa imo kag tumanon ang akon mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo,
paharion ko sa Israel ang imo mga kaliwat hasta san-o. Ginpromisa ko ini sa imo amay nga si David sang ginsilingan ko siya, ‘Indi ka madulaan sang kaliwat nga magahari sa Israel.’
Pero kon magtalikod kamo ukon ang inyo mga kaliwat sa akon kag indi magtuman sang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag ko sa inyo, kag kon mag-alagad kamo kag magsimba sa iban nga mga dios,
pahalinon ko kamo sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa inyo, kag sikwayon ko ining templo nga ginpili ko nga lugar nga sa diin padunggan ako. Dayon yagutaon kag kadlawan sang tanan nga tawo ang Israel.
Kag bisan matahom kag bantog ining templo, gub-on ko ini gub-on ko ini . Makibot kag matingala gid ang tanan nga magaagi diri, kag magayaguta sila nga nagasiling, ‘Ngaa ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sini nga duta kag sa sini nga templo?’
Magasabat ang iban, ‘Tungod kay ginsikway nila ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios nga nagpaguwa sang ila mga katigulangan sa Egypt, kag nag-alagad sila kag nagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Amo ina nga ginpadal-an sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang sina nga mga kahalitan.’ ”
Sang mabatian sang rayna sang Sheba ang pagkabantog ni Solomon, nga nakahatag sang kadungganan sa Ginoo Ginoo , nagkadto siya kay Solomon para testingan ang iya kaalam paagi sa mabudlay nga mga pamangkot.
Dayon ginhatagan niya si Haring Solomon Solomon sing mga lima ka tonelada nga bulawan, madamo nga panakot kag malahalon nga mga bato. Wala na gid sing may makatupong sa kadamuon sang panakot nga ginhatag sang rayna sang Sheba kay Haring Solomon.
(Ang mga barko ni Hiram nagdala man kay Haring Solomon kay Haring Solomon sang mga bulawan, madamo nga kahoy nga almug, kag malahalon nga mga bato, nga halin tanan tanan sa Ofir.
Gin-gamit sang hari ang mga kahoy nga almug nga hagdanan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa palasyo, kag ang iban ginhimo nga mga arpa kag mga lira para sa mga musikero. Amo ato ang pinakamaayo nga mga kahoy nga almug nga gindala sa Israel; wala na subong sing may makita nga pareho sadto.
Ginhatag ni Haring Solomon sa rayna sang Sheba ang bisan ano nga ginpangayo niya, wala labot sang mga regalo nga ginhatag ni Solomon sa iya. Dayon nagpuli ang rayna sa iya lugar upod sang iya mga tinawo.
Kada tuig nagabaton si Solomon sing mga 23 ka tonelada nga bulawan,
wala labot sa mga buhis nga halin sa mga negosyante, sa tanan nga hari sang Arabia, kag sa mga gobernador sang Israel.
Nagpahimo si Haring Solomon sang 200 ka dalagko nga mga taming nga ang kada taming nahaklapan sing mga pito
Nagpahimo man siya sang 300 ka magagmay nga mga taming nga ang kada taming nahaklapan sing mga duha ka kilo nga bulawan. Ginpabutang niya ini tanan didto sa parte sang palasyo nga ginatawag Kagulangan sang Lebanon.
Nagpahimo man ang hari sang isa ka dako nga trono nga halin sa mga bangkil sang mga elepante, kag ginhaklapan ini sang puro nga bulawan.
May anom ka halintang ang trono, kag tipulon ang likod sini. Sa kada kilid sang halambuyan sini may ara nga estatwa sang leon nga nagatindog.
Nag-abot siya sa Jerusalem nga may upod nga madamo nga tinawo, kag may dala siya nga mga camel nga kargado sang mga regalo nga regalo nga panakot, bulawan nga puwerte kadamo, kag malahalon nga mga bato. Pagkitaay nila ni Solomon, ginpamangkot niya siya sang tanan nga gusto niya nga ipamangkot.
Kag may ara man nga estatwa sang leon sa kada kilid sang halintang. Dose tanan ka estatwa sang leon sa anom ka halintang. Wala sing may makapareho sini nga trono sa bisan diin nga ginharian.
Ang tanan nga ilimnan ni Haring Solomon puro bulawan, kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sa parte sang palasyo nga ginatawag Kagulangan sang Lebanon puro man bulawan. Wala ini ginhimo sa pilak kay gamay lang ang bili sang pilak sang panahon ni Solomon.
May mga barko man si Solomon nga pangnegosyo
Wala sing bisan sin-o nga hari sa kalibutan nga makatupong sa kaalam kag sa manggad ni Haring Solomon.
Ang mga tawo sa tanan nga nasyon nagatinguha nga makita si Solomon para makapamati sila sa kaalam nga ginhatag sang Dios sa iya.
Kada tuig, ang kada isa nga nagabisita sa iya may dala nga mga regalo—mga butang nga hinimo halin sa pilak kag bulawan, mga bayo, mga armas, mga panakot, mga kabayo, kag mga mula.
Nakatipon si Solomon sang 1,400 ka karwahe kag 12,000 ka kabayo. Ginbutang niya ang iban sini sa mga banwa nga bulutangan sang iya mga karwahe, kag ang iban didto sa iya sa Jerusalem.
Sang panahon nga siya ang hari, ang pilak sa Jerusalem daw pareho lang ka ordinaryo lang ka ordinaryo sa mga bato, kag ang kahoy nga sedro daw pareho kabugana sa ordinaryo nga mga ordinaryo nga mga kahoy nga sikomoro sa mga bulobukid sa west.
Ang mga kabayo ni Solomon naghalin pa sa Egypt
Sadto nga tion ang bili sang karwahe nga halin sa Egypt 600 ka bilog nga pilak, kag ang kabayo 150 ka bilog nga pilak. Ginbaligya man ini sang mga tinawo ni Solomon sa tanan nga hari sang mga Hithanon kag sang mga Arameanhon.
Ginsabat ni Solomon ang tanan niya nga pamangkot kag wala gid sing bisan ano nga butang nga indi niya mapaathag sa iya.
Sang mapamatud-an sang rayna sang Sheba ang kaalam ni Solomon, kag sang makita niya ang katahom sang palasyo nga iya ginpatindog,
daw indi siya makapati. Amo man sang makita niya Amo man sang makita niya ang pagkaon sa lamisa sang hari, ang pagdumala sang iya mga opisyal, ang pag-alagad sang iya mga suluguon nga may matahom nga mga uniporme, ang mga manugserbi sang iya ilimnon, kag ang mga halad nga ginasunog nga iya ginhalad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling siya sa hari, “Matuod gid man ang nabatian ko sa akon nasyon parte sa imo mga hinimuan kag kaalam.
Wala ako nagpati sini hasta nga nagkadto ako diri kag nakita ko ini mismo. Ang matuod, wala gani sa katunga sang akon nabatian parte sa imo ang akon nakita. Ang imo kaalam kag manggad labaw pa sang sa akon nabatian.
Daw ano ka suwerte sang imo mga tinawo! Daw ano ka suwerte sang imo mga opisyal nga nagaalagad sa imo kay permi nila mabatian ang imo kaalam.
Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, nga nalipay sa imo kag nagbutang sa imo sa trono sang Israel. Tungod sa wala sing katapusan nga gugma sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel, ginhimo niya ikaw nga hari para magagahom ka nga may hustisya kag pagkamatarong.”
Madamo nga babayi nga indi Israelinhon ang ginhigugma ni Haring Solomon. Luwas sa anak sang hari sang Egypt, may mga asawa pa gid siya nga mga Moabnon, Ammonhon, Edomnon, Sidonhon, kag mga Hithanon.
Bisan ginpaandaman na niya si Solomon nga indi magsunod sa iban nga mga dios, wala gihapon magtuman si Solomon sa iya.
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Solomon, “Tungod kay wala mo pagtumana ang akon kasugtanan kag ang akon mga sugo, kuhaon ko sa imo ang imo ginharian kag ihatag ko ini sa isa sa imo mga alagad.
Pero tungod sa imo amay nga si David indi ko ini paghimuon samtang buhi ka pa. Himuon ko ini sa panahon na sang paghari sang paghari sang imo anak.
Pero indi ko pagkuhaon ang bilog nga ginharian sa iya, kundi bilinan ko siya sang isa ka tribo tungod sa akon alagad nga si David kag tungod sa Jerusalem nga akon pinili nga siyudad nga siyudad .”
Ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga may magkontra kay Solomon. Siya amo si Hadad nga Edomnon, nga kaliwat sang isa sang mga hari sang Edom.
Sang una, sang nagpakig-away si David sa Edom, si Joab nga kumander sang mga soldado ni David nagkadto didto sa Edom para ilubong ang mga napatay sa inaway. Kag sang didto siya, ginpamatay niya kag sang iya mga tinawo ang tanan nga lalaki sa Edom.
Anom ka bulan ang ila pagtiner didto. Wala sila naghalin hasta naubos nila pamatay ang tanan nga lalaki didto.
Pero si Hadad nga bata pa sadto nakapalagyo sa Egypt kaupod sang iban nga mga Edomnon nga mga opisyal nga nag-alagad sa iya amay.
Naghalin sila sa Midian kag nagkadto sa Paran. Kag kaupod sang iban nga mga taga-Paran, nagkadto sila sa Egypt kag nagpakigkita sa Faraon nga hari sang Egypt. Ginhatagan sang hari si Hadad sang balay, duta, kag pagkaon.
Nagustuhan gid sang hari
Ginsilingan na nga daan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon nga indi sila magpangasawa ukon magpamana halin sa sina nga mga nasyon, tungod kay ang ila mapangasawa ukon mapamana amo ang magaimpluwensya sa ila sa pagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Pero naghigugma gihapon si Solomon sa sini nga mga babayi.
Sang ulihi nagbata sing lalaki ang asawa ni Hadad, kag gin-ngalanan nila nga Genubat. Si Tapenes ang nagpadako sa bata didto sa palasyo. Nagpuyo ang bata upod sa mga anak sang hari.
Sang didto si Hadad sa Egypt, nabalitaan niya nga patay na si David kag si Joab nga kumander sang mga soldado. Nagsiling si Hadad sa hari, “Papulia na ako sa akon nasyon.”
Nagpamangkot ang hari, “Ngaa? Ano pa bala ang kulang sa imo diri nga gusto mo gid magpuli sa inyo?” Nagsabat si Hadad, “Wala; basta papulia lang ako.”
May isa pa ka tawo nga ginbuot sang Dios nga magkontra kay Solomon. Siya amo si Rezon nga anak ni Eliada. Naglayas siya sa iya agalon nga si Haring Hadadezer sang Zoba,
kag nangin pangulo siya sang mga rebelde nga iya gintipon. Sang mapierdi ni David ang mga soldado ni Hadadezer, nagkadto si Rezon kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Damascus. Ginsakop nila ini nga lugar kag didto sila nag-estar.
Nangin hari si Rezon sang Aram,
Isa pa sa mga nagkontra kay Solomon amo si Jeroboam nga isa sang iya mga opisyal. Taga-Efraim siya sa banwa sang Zereda. Ang iya amay nga si Nebat patay na, pero ang iya iloy nga si Zerua buhi pa.
Amo ini ang estorya kon paano siya nagrebelde sa hari: Ginapatampukan sadto ni Solomon ang manubo nga parte
Ining si Jeroboam maabilidad nga tawo, kag sang matalupangdan ni Solomon ang iya kapisan, ginhimo niya siya nga manugdumala sang tanan nga tawo nga ginpilit nga mag-obra halin sa tribo ni Efraim kag ni Manase.
Isa sina ka tion, samtang nagapaguwa si Jeroboam sa Jerusalem, ginsugata siya ni Propeta Ahia nga taga-Shilo. Bag-o ang ginasuksok ni Ahia nga pangguwa nga bayo. Sila lang nga duha didto sa kapatagan.
May 700 ka asawa si Solomon nga mga anak sang mga hari kag mga opisyal, kag may 300 pa gid siya ka asawa nga mga suluguon. Ang iya mga asawa amo ang nagpahilayo sa iya sa Dios sa Dios .
Gin-uba ni Ahia ang iya pangguwa nga bayo kag gin-gisi ini sa dose ka parte.
Dayon nagsiling siya kay Jeroboam, “Kuha ka sang napulo ka parte sini, kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: Kuhaon ko ang ginharian ni Solomon kag ihatag sa imo ang napulo ka tribo sini.
Pero tungod kay David nga akon alagad kag sa siyudad sang Jerusalem nga akon pinili sa tanan nga siyudad sang Israel, ibilin ko ang isa ka tribo kay Solomon kay Solomon .
Himuon ko ini tungod kay ginsikway niya
Pero indi ko pagkuhaon ang bilog nga ginharian kay Solomon. Magahari siya sa bilog niya nga kabuhi tungod sa akon alagad nga si David nga akon ginpili, nga nagtuman sang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan.
Pagakuhaon ko ang napulo ka tribo sa ginharian sang iya anak nga magabulos sa iya bilang hari, nga magabulos sa iya bilang hari, kag ihatag ko ini sa imo.
Hatagan ko sang isa ka tribo ang iya anak para ang mga kaliwat ni David nga akon alagad magapadayon sa paghari sa Jerusalem, ang siyudad nga akon ginpili para padunggan ako.
Kon parte sa imo, himuon ko ikaw nga hari sang Israel. Dumalahan mo ang tanan nga gusto mo.
Kon tumanon mo ang tanan nga isugo ko sa imo kag magsunod ka sa akon mga pamaagi, kag kon maghimo ka sing maayo sa akon panulok paagi sa pagtuman sang akon mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo pareho sang ginhimo ni David nga akon alagad, magaupod ako sa imo. Magapabilin sa paghari ang imo mga kaliwat pareho sa mga kaliwat ni David. Mangin imo ang Israel.
Tungod sa mga sala ni Solomon, silutan ko ang mga kaliwat ni David, pero indi hasta san-o.”
Sang tigulang na siya gin-impluwensya siya sang iya mga asawa sa pagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Indi na maayo ang iya relasyon sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios; indi pareho sang iya amay nga si David.
Gani gintinguhaan ni Solomon nga patyon si Jeroboam, pero nagpalagyo si Jeroboam kay Shishak, ang hari sang Egypt, kag didto siya nag-estar hasta napatay si Solomon.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Solomon, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, kag ang parte sa iya kaalam nasulat sa Libro sang mga Binuhatan ni Solomon.
Sa Jerusalem nag-estar nag-estar si Solomon samtang nagahari siya sa bilog nga Israel sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
Sang napatay siya, ginlubong siya sa banwa sang iya amay nga si David. Kag si Rehoboam nga iya anak ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagsimba siya kay Ashtoret, ang diosa sang mga Sidonhon, kag kay Molec,
Sa sini nga paagi, naghimo si Solomon sang malain sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Wala siya magsunod sing bug-os sa Ginoo Ginoo ; indi pareho sa ginhimo sang iya amay nga si David.
Nagpahimo si Solomon sang simbahan sa mataas nga lugar, sa east sang Jerusalem, para kay Kemosh, ang makangilil-ad nga dios sang mga Moabnon. Nagpahimo man siya sang simbahan para kay Molek, ang makangilil-ad nga dios sang mga Ammonhon.
Ginpahimuan man niya sang mga simbahan ang mga dios-dios sang tanan niya nga asawa nga indi Israelinhon, kag didto sila nagasunog sang mga insenso kag nagahalad para sa ila mga dios-dios.
Naakig ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Solomon tungod kay nagtalikod siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga nagpakita sa iya sing makaduha ka beses.
Nagkadto si Rehoboam sa Shekem, nga sa diin nagtipon ang mga Israelinhon sa pagproklamar sa iya nga hari.
Nagsabat ang mga pamatan-on, “Amo ini ang isabat mo sa sadto nga mga tawo nga nagapangabay sa imo: ‘Ang akon kamalingking mas dako pa sa hawak sang akon amay.
Ang buot ko silingon nga Ang buot ko silingon nga mas mabug-at pa ang ipatuman ko sa inyo sang sa ginpatuman sang akon amay. Kon ginhanot kamo sang akon amay sang latigo, hanuton ko kamo sang putik nga may matalom nga mga metal.
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw, nagbalik si Jeroboam kag ang mga tawo kay Haring Rehoboam, suno sa ginsiling sang hari sa ila.
Pero wala pagtumana ni Rehoboam ang ginlaygay sa iya sang mga manugdumala. Sa baylo, ginhambalan niya sing masakit ang mga tawo
suno sa ginlaygay sang mga pamatan-on. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Mabug-at ang ginpatuman sang akon amay sa inyo, pero mas mabug-at pa ang ipatuman ko sa inyo. Kon ginhanot kamo sang akon amay sang latigo, hanuton ko kamo sang putik nga may matalom nga mga metal.”
Gani wala magpamati ang hari sa pangabay sang mga tawo, kay ini pagbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo para matuman ang iya ginsiling kay Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat paagi kay Ahia nga taga-Shilo.
Sang mareyalisar sang mga Israelinhon nga wala sila pagpamatii sang hari, nagsiling sila sa hari, “Wala kami labot sa imo nga kaliwat ni David! Bahala ka na sa imo ginharian! Dali kamo mga Israelinhon, mapuli kita!” Gani nagpalauli ang mga Israelinhon.
Ang mga Israelinhon lang nga nagaestar sa mga banwa sang Juda amo ang padayon nga gindumalahan ni Rehoboam.
Karon, ginpakadto ni Haring Rehoboam sa mga Israelinhon si Adoniram,
Bisan hasta subong nagarebelde ang mga Israelinhon sa mga kaliwat ni David.
Pagkabati sini ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nagbalik siya sa Israel. (Kay sadto nga panahon didto siya nagaestar sa Egypt, nga sa diin nagpalagyo siya kay Haring Solomon.)
Sang mabalitaan sang tanan nga Israelinhon nga nakapuli na si Jeroboam, ginpatawag nila siya sa isa ka pagtilipon, kag ginhimo nila siya nga hari sa bilog nga Israel. Ang tribo lang ni Juda ang nagpabilin nga mainunungon sa mga kaliwat ni David.
Pag-abot ni Rehoboam sa Jerusalem, gintipon niya ang maayo gid nga mga soldado sang mga tribo sang Juda kag Benjamin. Nakatipon siya sang 180,000 ka soldado sa pagpakig-away kontra sa katawhan sang Israel kag sa pagbawi sang iya ginharian.
Pero nagsiling ang Dios kay Shemaya nga iya alagad,
“Hambala si Haring Rehoboam sang Juda, nga anak ni Solomon, kag ang tanan nga katawhan sang Juda kag Benjamin kag ang iban pa nga nagaestar kaupod nila
nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling, ‘Indi kamo magpakig-away sa inyo kadugo nga mga Israelinhon. Magpuli kamo, kay pagbuot ko ini tanan.’ ” Nagtuman sila sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagpuli, suno sa ginmando sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpapaderan ni Jeroboam ang banwa sang Shekem sa kabukiran sang Efraim, kag didto siya nag-estar. Sang ulihi nagkadto siya sa Penuel kag ginpakay-o niya ini.
Nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Basi mabalik ang ginharian sa mga kaliwat ni David
kon magpadayon ang katawhan sa pagkadto sa Jerusalem para maghalad didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Mahimo nga mag-unong liwat sila sa ila agalon nga si Haring Rehoboam sang Juda. Kag kon matabo ina, patyon nila ako kag mabalik sila kay Rehoboam.”
Gani pagkatapos nga nagpalaygay si Jeroboam parte sini, nagpahimo siya sang duha ka bulawan nga baka. Nagsiling dayon siya sa mga tawo, “Mga Israelinhon, mabudlay na para sa inyo nga magkadto pa sa Jerusalem. Ari ang inyo mga dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt.”
Ang isa ka bulawan nga baka ginpabutang niya sa Betel kag ang isa sa Dan.
Ginpatawag sang komunidad sang Israel si Jeroboam, kag tanan sila nagkadto kay Rehoboam kag nagsiling,
Ining ginhimo ni Jeroboam nangin kabangdanan sang kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel sang mga taga-Israel . Nagakadto pa sila bisan sa Dan sa pagsimba didto.
Nagpahimo pa gid si Jeroboam sang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, kag nagpili siya sang mga tawo nga mag-alagad bilang mga pari, bisan indi sila mga kaliwat ni Levi.
Nagpapiesta man siya sang ika-15 nga adlaw sang ikawalo nga bulan, pareho sang piesta sa Juda. Sa sina nga adlaw, naghalad siya sa Betel sang mga halad sa halaran para sa bulawan nga bulawan nga mga baka nga iya ginpahimo. Kag didto nagpili siya sang mga pari nga iya ibutang sa mga simbahan nga iya ginpahimo sa mataas nga mga lugar.
Sa sina nga adlaw nga naghalad siya sa halaran nga iya ginpahimo sa Betel, gin-umpisahan niya ang piesta nga para sa mga Israelinhon. Siya mismo ang nagpili sang ika-15 nga adlaw sang ikawalo nga bulan para sa sini nga piesta.
“Mabug-at ang mga ginpatuman sang imo amay sa amon. Pero kon pamag-anon mo ini alagaran ka namon.”
Nagsabat si Rehoboam, “Hatagi ninyo ako anay sang tatlo ka adlaw sa paghunahuna sini, pagkatapos balik kamo sa akon.” Gani nagpuli ang mga tawo.
Nagpakigkita dayon si Haring Rehoboam sa mga manugdumala nga nakaalagad sa iya amay nga si Solomon sang buhi pa siya. Nagpamangkot si Rehoboam sa ila, “Ano bala ang inyo malaygay nga isabat ko sa ginapangabay sang sadto nga mga tawo?”
Nagsabat sila, “Kon ihatag mo sa ila subong ang ila ginapangabay, kag ipakita mo sa ila nga handa ka nga mag-alagad sa ila, magaalagad sila sa imo hasta san-o.”
Pero wala pagtumana ni Rehoboam ang ila laygay, sa baylo nagpakigkita siya sa iya katubo-tubo nga mga pamatan-on nga nagaalagad sa iya.
Nagpamangkot siya sa ila, “Ano bala ang inyo malaygay nga isabat ko sa ginapangabay sang sadto nga mga tawo? Nagapangabay sila sa akon nga pamag-anan ko ang mabug-at nga mga ginpatuman sang akon amay sa ila.”
Karon, ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang isa niya ka alagad nga taga-Juda sa pagkadto sa Betel. Pag-abot niya didto, nagatindog si Jeroboam sa halaran para maghalad.
Gani lain nga dalan ang iya gin-agyan pagpuli niya.
Sadto nga tion, may isa ka tigulang nga propeta nga nagaestar sa Betel. Ginkadtuan siya sang iya mga anak nga lalaki
Nagpamangkot ang ila amay, “Diin siya nag-agi pagpuli?” Ginsugiran nila siya kon diin siya nag-agi.
Dayon nagsiling ang ila amay sa ila, “Ipreparar ninyo ang donkey para sa akon.” Gani ginpreparar nila ang donkey, kag nagsakay siya
kag ginlagas niya ang alagad sang Dios. Naabtan niya siya nga nagapungko sa puno sang kahoy nga terebinto. Ginpamangkot niya siya, “Ikaw bala ang alagad sang Dios nga halin sa Juda?” Nagsabat siya, “Huo.”
Nagsiling ang tigulang nga propeta, “Dali sa balay kag magkaon.”
Nagsiling ang alagad sang Dios, “Indi ako puwede nga magbalik kag mag-upod sa imo, kag indi man ako puwede nga magkaon ukon mag-inom upod sa imo sa sini nga lugar.
Kay ginhambalan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi gid ako magkaon ukon mag-inom samtang diri ako, kag sa akon pagpuli indi ako mag-agi sa akon gin-agyan sang pagpakadto ko diri.”
Nagsiling ang tigulang nga propeta, “Propeta man ako pareho sa imo. Kag ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang isa ka anghel sa pagsiling sa akon nga dal-on ko ikaw sa akon balay para makakaon ka kag makainom.” (Pero nagbutig ang tigulang nga propeta.)
Gani nag-upod sa iya balay ang alagad sang Dios kag nagkaon kag nag-inom siya didto.
Ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya alagad nga pakamalauton niya ato nga halaran. Siling niya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa sini nga halaran: May matawo nga isa ka bata sa mga kaliwat ni David nga ang iya ngalan si Josia. Pamatyon niya kag ihalad sa sini nga halaran ang mga pari nga nagaalagad sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar kag nagahalad sa sini nga halaran. Magakalasunog ang ila mga tul-an sa sini nga halaran.”
Samtang nagapungko sila sa lamisa, may ginhambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa tigulang nga propeta.
Dayon nagsiling ang tigulang nga propeta sa alagad sang Dios nga halin sa Juda, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Ginlapas mo ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios; wala mo pagtumana ang iya ginsugo sa imo.
Nagsiling siya sa imo nga indi ka magkaon kag mag-inom sa sini nga lugar, pero nagbalik ka diri kag nagkaon kag nag-inom. Tungod sang imo ginhimo, ang imo bangkay indi pag-ilubong sa lulubngan sang imo mga katigulangan.”
Pagkatapos kaon kag inom sang alagad sang Dios, ginpreparar sang tigulang nga propeta ang donkey para sa iya pagpuli.
Kag samtang nagapapuli siya, ginsugata siya sang isa ka leon kag ginpatay. Ang iya bangkay nagahamyang sa dalan, kag ang leon kag ang donkey nagatindog sa tupad sang iya bangkay.
Nakita sang mga nagaalagi ang bangkay kag ang leon sa tupad sini, kag ginbalita nila ini sa banwa nga sa diin nagaestar ang tigulang nga propeta.
Sang mabatian ini sang tigulang nga propeta, nagsiling siya, “Siya ang alagad sang Dios nga naglapas sa ginhambal sang Ginoo Ginoo . Gintugyan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa leon nga nagsalakay kag nagpatay sa iya, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya.”
Nagsiling dayon ang tigulang nga propeta sa iya mga anak nga lalaki, “Ipreparar ninyo ang donkey para sa akon.” Kag ginpreparar nila ini.
Naglakat siya dayon, kag nakita niya ang bangkay nga nagahamyang sa dalan kag ang leon kag ang donkey nga nagatindog sa tupad sini. Wala pagkauna sang leon ang bangkay ukon pag-anha ang donkey.
Ginkuha sang tigulang nga propeta ang bangkay sang alagad sang Dios kag ginkarga sa donkey, kag gindala sa iya banwa para makapangasubo siya sa bangkay kag malubong niya ini.
Sa sina mismo nga adlaw, naghatag ang alagad sang Dios sang tanda nga matabo ang iya ginhambal nga matabo ang iya ginhambal . Siling niya, “Amo ini ang tanda nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Marumpag ini nga halaran kag ang mga abo sa sini nga halaran maglalapta.”
Ginlubong niya siya sa lulubngan nga ginpahimo niya mismo para sa iya kaugalingon, kag nagpangasubo gid sila sa pagkapatay sang alagad sang Dios.
Pagkatapos lubong, nagsiling ang tigulang nga propeta sa iya mga anak nga lalaki, “Kon mapatay na gani ako, ilubong ninyo ako sa ginlubngan sang alagad sang Dios, kag itupad ninyo ako sa iya.
Kay ang mga pulong nga ginpahambal sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya parte sa halaran sa Betel kag sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar sa Samaria sigurado gid nga matuman.”
Bisan pa sini nga natabo, wala gihapon nagbag-o si Jeroboam sa iya malain nga mga pagginawi. Nagpili gihapon siya sang mga tawo nga mag-alagad bilang mga pari sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar. Ang bisan sin-o nga gusto mag-alagad bilang pari gin-ordinahan niya.
Ining ginhimo ni Jeroboam nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang iya panimalay kag nagdala sa ila sang kapierdihan kag kalaglagan.
Pagkabati sadto ni Haring Jeroboam, gintudlo niya ang tawo kag nagsiling, “Dakpa ninyo siya!” Pero gulpi lang nga nagtig-a ang kamot sang hari, gani indi na niya mapaidalom ang iya kamot.
Kag dayon narumpag ang halaran kag ang mga abo sini naglalapta, suno gid sa tanda nga ginsiling sang alagad sang Dios nga ginpahayag sa iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagsiling ang hari sa alagad sang Dios, “Ipangamuyo mo ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios nga ayuhon niya ang akon kamot.” Gani nagpangamuyo ang alagad sang Dios sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag nag-ayo ang kamot sang hari.
Nagsiling liwat ang hari sa alagad sang Dios, “Dali sa balay kag magkaon, kag hatagan ko ikaw sang regalo.”
Pero nagsabat ang alagad sang Dios, “Bisan ihatag mo pa sa akon ang katunga sang imo pagkabutang, indi ako mag-upod sa imo ukon magkaon ukon mag-inom sa sini nga lugar.
Kay ginmanduan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi gid ako magkaon ukon mag-inom samtang diri ako, kag sa akon pagpuli indi ako mag-agi sa akon gin-agyan sang pagkadto ko diri.”
Sadto nga tion, nagmasakit ang bata nga lalaki ni Jeroboam nga si Abia.
Tungod sini, laglagon ko ang imo panimalay. Pamatyon ko ang tanan nga miyembro sang imo panimalay nga mga lalaki, ulipon ukon indi. Laglagon ko sing bug-os ang imo panimalay pareho sa higko
Ang mga miyembro sang imo panimalay nga magakalamatay sa banwa pagakaunon sang mga ido, kag ang magakalamatay sa uma pagakaunon sang mga pispis. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Dayon nagsiling si Ahia sa asawa ni Jeroboam, Dayon nagsiling si Ahia sa asawa ni Jeroboam, “Magpuli ka na sa inyo. Pag-abot mo sa inyo siyudad, mapatay ang imo bata.
Magapangasubo sa iya ang tanan nga taga-Israel, kag ilubong siya. Siya lang sa panimalay ni Jeroboam ang hatagan sang nagakaigo nga lubong, kay siya lang sa panimalay ni Jeroboam ang nalipayan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Kag sa sini gid nga tiyempo, may ibutang ang Ginoo Ginoo nga hari sa Israel nga amo ang magalaglag sa panimalay ni Jeroboam.
Silutan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Israel hasta nga magakurog ini pareho sang pagkurog sang tigbaw sa sulog nga tubig. Kuhaon niya sila sa sining maayo nga duta nga iya ginhatag sa ila mga katigulangan, kag laptahon niya sila sa unhan sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates tungod kay ginpaakig nila siya sang maghimo sila sang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera.
Pabay-an niya sila tungod sa mga sala ni Jeroboam, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.”
Dayon nagpuli ang asawa ni Jeroboam sa Tirza. Pag-abot gid niya sa puwertahan sang ila balay, napatay dayon ang iya bata.
Nagpangasubo sa bata ang tanan nga taga-Israel kag ginlubong nila siya, suno man sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya alagad nga si Propeta Ahia.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jeroboam, pati ang iya mga pagpakig-away, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Gani nagsiling si Jeroboam sa iya asawa, “Magpakuno-kuno ka para wala sing may makakilala sa imo nga asawa ko ikaw, kag magkadto ka sa Shilo. Ato didto si Ahia, ang propeta nga nagsiling sa akon nga mangin hari ako sang Israel.
Naghari si Jeroboam sa Israel sa sulod sang 22 ka tuig. Kag sang napatay siya, si Nadab nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Si Rehoboam nga anak ni Solomon amo ang hari sa Juda. Nagaedad siya sing 41 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 17 ka tuig sa Jerusalem, ang siyudad nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel, nga sa diin padunggan siya. Ang iloy ni Rehoboam amo si Naama nga Ammonhon.
Nagpakasala ang katawhan sang Juda sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag mas grabe pa ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila sang sa ila mga katigulangan, kay mas grabe ang ila mga sala.
Naghimo man sila sang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar kag sang handumanan nga mga bato, kag nagpatindog sila sang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera sa ibabaw sang tagsa ka bukid kag sa idalom sang tagsa ka madabong nga kahoy.
Wala labot sina, may ara pa sila nga mga lalaki kag mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas sa mga lugar nga ila ginasimbahan. Ang katawhan sang Juda naghimo sang tanan nga makangilil-ad nga butang nga ginahimo anay sang mga nasyon nga ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Sang ikalima nga tuig sang paghari ni Rehoboam, ginsalakay ni Haring Shishak sang Egypt ang Jerusalem.
Ginpanguha niya ang mga manggad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa palasyo. Ginkuha niya ang tanan, pati na ang tanan nga taming nga bulawan nga ginpahimo ni Solomon.
Gani nagpahimo si Haring Rehoboam sang mga taming nga saway sa pag-ilis sadto nga mga taming, kag gin-intrigar niya ini sa mga opisyal sang mga guwardya nga nagabantay sa puwertahan sang palasyo.
Kag kon magkadto ang hari sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagaupod sa iya ang mga guwardya nga dala ini nga mga taming, kag pagkatapos ginabalik man nila ini sa ila kuwarto.
Ang iban pa nga mga estorya parte sa paghari ni Rehoboam, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Magkadto ka sa iya nga may dala nga mga regalo nga napulo ka tinapay, mga kalan-on, kag isa ka tibod nga honey, kay sugiran ka niya kon ano ang matabo sa aton bata.”
Permi lang sadto nagainaway si Rehoboam kag si Jeroboam.
Sang napatay si Rehoboam, ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David. (Ang iloy ni Rehoboam amo si Naama nga Ammonhon.) Si Abia
Gani nagkadto ang asawa ni Jeroboam sa balay ni Ahia sa Shilo. Tigulang na si Ahia kag indi na siya makakita.
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Ahia, “Nagapakadto diri ang asawa ni Jeroboam nga nagapakuno-kuno para indi siya makilala. Mamangkot siya sa imo parte sa iya bata nga nagamasakit, kag sabton mo siya sang akon isiling sa imo.”
Gani sang mabatian ni Ahia nga nagapasulod siya sa puwertahan, nagsiling si Ahia, “Dali, sulod. Nahibaluan ko nga asawa ka ni Jeroboam. Ngaa nagapakuno-kuno ka pa? May malain ako nga balita sa imo.
Pauli ka kag silinga si Jeroboam nga amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: Ginpili ko ikaw sa mga tawo kag ginhimo nga pangulo sang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Ginkuha ko ang ginharian sa mga kaliwat ni David kag ginhatag sa imo. Pero indi ka pareho kay David nga akon alagad, nga nagtuman sa akon mga sugo kag nagsunod sa akon sa bug-os niya nga tagipusuon, kag naghimo sing matarong sa akon panulok.
Mas malain pa ang imo ginhimo sang sa ginhimo sang mga nauna sa imo. Ginsikway mo ako kag ginpaakig paagi sa pagpahimo sang metal nga mga dios-dios.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Abia sang ika-18 nga tuig sang paghari ni Jeroboam sa Israel sa Israel .
Sa Jerusalem nag-estar si Asa, kag nag-estar si Asa, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 41 ka tuig. Ang iya lola amo si Maaca nga apo
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Asa sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho kay David nga iya katigulangan.
Ginpalayas niya sa Juda ang mga lalaki kag mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas sa mga lugar nga ila ginasimbahan, kag ginpakuha niya ang tanan nga dios-dios nga ginpahimo sang iya mga katigulangan.
Pati ang iya lola nga si Maaca ginpahalin niya sa pagkarayna, kay nagpahimo siya sang makangilil-ad nga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Ginpautod ni Asa ini nga hulohaligi nga hulohaligi kag ginpasunog sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig.
Bisan wala madula ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, matutom gihapon siya sa Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog niya nga kabuhi.
Gindala niya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, kag ang iban pa nga mga butang nga ginhalad niya kag sang iya amay sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Permi lang nagainaway si Asa kag si Baasha nga hari sang Israel samtang nagahari sila.
Ginsalakay ni Baasha ang Juda, kag ginpabakod niya ang banwa sang banwa sang Rama para wala sing may makaguwa ukon makasulod sa teritoryo ni Haring Asa sang Juda.
Ginpanguha ni Asa ang tanan nga pilak kag bulawan nga nabilin sa mga bodega sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya palasyo. Gin-intrigar niya ini sa iya mga opisyal, kag ginsugo niya sila nga dal-on ini kay Haring Ben Hadad sang Aram
Amo ini ang mensahi ni Asa kay Ben Hadad: “Maghimo kita sang kasugtanan nga magdampiganay kita, nga magdampiganay kita, pareho sang ginhimo sang aton mga amay. Batuna ang regalo ko sa imo nga pilak kag bulawan, kag ginapangabay ko ikaw nga untaton mo na ang imo pagpakigdampig kay Haring Baasha sang Israel para pabay-an na niya ako.”
Sa Jerusalem nag-estar si Abia, kag nag-estar si Abia, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Maaca nga apo
Nagsugot si Ben Hadad sa ginpangabay ni Haring Asa, kag ginsugo niya ang mga kumander sang iya mga soldado nga salakayon ang mga banwa sang Israel. Naagaw nila ang Ion, Dan, Abel Bet Maaca, ang bilog nga Kineret, kag ang bilog nga Naftali.
Sang mabatian ini ni Baasha, ginpauntat niya ang pagpabakod sang Rama, kag nagbalik siya sa Tirza.
Dayon nagmando si Haring Asa sa tanan gid nga taga-Juda nga kuhaon nila ang mga bato kag mga troso nga gin-gamit ni Baasha sa pagpabakod sang Rama. Kag gin-gamit ini ni Haring Asa sa pagpabakod sang Geba sa Benjamin, kag sang Mizpa.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Asa, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang tanan niya nga ginhimo, pati ang mga banwa nga iya ginpabakod, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda. Sang tigulang na si Asa may sakit siya sa tiil.
Kag sang napatay siya, ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa banwa sang iya katigulangan nga si David. Kag si Jehoshafat nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Nadab nga anak ni Jeroboam sang ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Naghari si Nadab sa bilog nga Israel sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsunod siya sa pagginawi sang iya amay kag sa sala nga iya ginhimo, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Karon, si Baasha nga anak ni Ahia, nga halin sa tribo ni Isacar, nagplano sing malain kontra kay Nadab. Ginpapatay niya si Nadab samtang ginasalakay ni Nadab kag sang bilog nga Israel ang Gibeton, nga isa ka banwa sang mga Filistinhon.
Ang pagpatay ni Baasha kay Nadab natabo sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Kag si Baasha amo ang nagbulos kay Nadab bilang hari.
Pag-umpisa gid ni Baasha nga maghari, ginpamatay niya ang bilog nga pamilya ni Jeroboam, kag wala gid siya sing may ginbilin bisan isa. Natabo ini suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya alagad nga si Ahia nga taga-Shilo.
Ginhimo man niya ang tanan nga sala nga ginhimo sang iya amay. Indi maayo ang iya relasyon sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios; indi pareho kay David nga iya katigulangan.
Kay nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, kay Jeroboam tungod sa iya mga sala nga ginhimo, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Nadab, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Permi lang nagainaway si Asa kag si Baasha samtang nagahari sila.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Baasha nga anak ni Ahia sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Sa Tirza nag-estar si Baasha, kag nag-estar si Baasha, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 24 ka tuig.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsunod siya sa pagginawi ni Jeroboam kag sa sala nga iya ginhimo, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Pero tungod kay David, gintugot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios nga may kaliwat siya nga magahari
Kay ginhimo ni David ang matarong sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag samtang buhi siya wala niya paglapasa ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , luwas lang sa ginhimo niya kay Uria nga Hithanon.
Sang napatay si Abia, ginlubong siya sa Banwa ni David. Kag si Asa nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Asa sang ika-20 nga tuig sang paghari ni Jeroboam sa Israel.
Amo ini ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra kay Baasha nga iya ginhambal paagi kay Jehu nga anak ni Hanani:
Nagsulod si Zimri sa balay kag ginpatay niya si Elah. Natabo ini sang ika-27 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Kag si Zimri ang nagbulos kay Elah bilang hari.
Pag-umpisa gid ni Zimri nga maghari, ginpamatay niya ang bilog nga pamilya ni Baasha. Wala gid siya sing may ginbilin nga lalaki bisan sa mga paryente kag mga abyan ni Baasha.
Ginpamatay ni Zimri ang bilog nga pamilya ni Baasha suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Propeta Jehu.
Kay ginpaakig ni Baasha kag sang iya anak nga si Elah ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, tungod sa mga sala nga ila ginhimo, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel, paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Elah, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Nangin hari sang Israel sang Israel si Zimri sang ika-27 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Didto siya nag-estar sa Tirza, pero pito lang ka adlaw ang iya paghari. Kay sang nagakampo ang mga soldado sang Israel sang Israel malapit sa Gibeton, nga isa ka banwa sang mga Filistinhon,
nabalitaan nila nga ginpatay ni Zimri ang hari. Gani sadto mismo nga adlaw didto sa kampo, ginhimo nila si Omri nga hari sang Israel. Ining si Omri amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sang Israel sang Israel .
Naghalin dayon sa Gibeton si Omri kag ang iya mga kaupod nga mga taga-Israel, kag ginsalakay nila ang Tirza.
Sang makita ni Zimri nga naagaw na ang banwa, nagsulod siya sa mabakod nga parte sang palasyo kag ginsunog ang palasyo, gani napatay siya.
Natabo ini tungod sa mga sala nga iya ginhimo. Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag nagsunod siya sa pagginawi ni Jeroboam kag sa sala nga iya ginhimo, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
“Ginkuha ko ikaw sa manubo nga kahimtangan,
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Zimri, kag ang parte sa iya pagrebelde, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Natunga ang katawhan sang Israel sa duha ka grupo. Ang isa ka grupo gusto nga mangin hari si Tibni nga anak ni Ginat, kag ang isa naman ya ka grupo gusto si Omri.
Pero mas mabakod ang mga nagaapin kay Omri sang sa mga nagaapin kay Tibni nga anak ni Ginat. Napatay si Tibni, kag si Omri ang nangin hari.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Omri sang ika-31 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Naghari siya sa sulod sang dose ka tuig; ang anom sini ka tuig didto sa Tirza.
Ginbakal niya kay Shemer ang bukid sang Samaria sing mga 70 ka kilo nga pilak, kag ginpatindugan niya ini sang siyudad. Dayon gin-ngalanan niya ini nga siyudad nga Samaria, nga halin sa ngalan ni Shemer nga amo anay ang tag-iya sang bukid.
Malain ang ginhimo ni Omri sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag nagpakasala siya labaw pa sa mga hari nga nauna sa iya.
Nagsunod siya sa pagginawi ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat kag sa sala nga iya ginhimo, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel. Ginpaakig nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Omri, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang iban pa niya nga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sang napatay si Omri, ginlubong siya sa Samaria. Kag si Ahab nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Ahab nga anak ni Omri sang ika-38 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Ahab, kag nag-estar si Ahab, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 22 ka tuig.
Gani laglagon ko ikaw kag ang imo panimalay, pareho sa ginhimo ko sa panimalay ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , labaw pa sa ginhimo sang mga hari nga nauna sa iya.
Indi pa siya kontento sa pagsunod sa mga sala nga ginhimo ni Jeroboam, kundi ginpangasawa pa niya si Jezebel nga anak ni Haring Etbaal sang Sidon, kag nag-alagad siya kag nagsimba sa dios-dios nga si Baal.
Nagpatindog siya sang templo kag halaran para kay Baal didto sa Samaria.
Nagpahimo man siya sang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Ginpaakig gid niya ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, labaw pa sa ginhimo sang mga hari sang Israel nga nauna sa iya.
Sang tion sang paghari ni Ahab, ginpatindog liwat ni Hiel nga taga-Betel ang Jerico. Sang ginatukod niya ang mga pundasyon sini, napatay ang iya kamagulangan nga anak nga si Abiram. Kag sang ginapaobra na niya ang mga puwertahan sini, napatay ang iya kamanghuran nga anak nga si Segub. Natabo ini tanan suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Josue nga anak ni Nun.
Ang mga miyembro sang imo panimalay nga magakalamatay sa banwa pagakaunon sang mga ido, kag ang magakalamatay sa uma pagakaunon sang mga pispis.”
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Baasha, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang iban pa niya nga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sang napatay si Baasha, ginlubong siya sa Tirza. Kag si Elah nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Ato nga mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra kay Baasha kag sa iya panimalay ginhambal sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Propeta Jehu nga anak ni Hanani. Ginhambal ato sang Ginoo Ginhambal ato sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa tanan nga malain nga ginhimo ni Baasha sa iya panulok. Ginpaakig ni Baasha ang Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa iya mga ginhimo nga pareho sa ginhimo sang panimalay ni Jeroboam, kag tungod sa iya nga pagpamatay sa bilog nga panimalay ni Jeroboam.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Elah nga anak ni Baasha sang ika-26 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa sa Juda. Sa Tirza nag-estar si Elah, kag nag-estar si Elah, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.
Karon, si Zimri nga isa sa iya mga opisyal kag kumander sang katunga sang iya mga manugkarwahe, nagplano sing malain kontra sa iya. Isa ka adlaw, nagpahubog si Elah sa Tirza, didto sa balay ni Arza nga amo ang manugdumala sang palasyo sa Tirza.
Karon, may isa ka propeta nga ang iya ngalan may isa ka propeta nga ang iya ngalan si Elias. Nagaestar siya sa Tishbe, nga sakop sang Gilead. Nagsiling siya kay Ahab, “Ginasiguro ko gid sa imo, sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel nga akon ginaalagaran, nga wala sing tun-og ukon ulan nga magaabot sa sulod sang pila ka tuig kon indi ako magsiling nga magaabot ini.”
Gani nagkadto si Elias sa Zarefat. Pag-abot niya sa may puwertahan sang banwa, may nakita siya nga balo nga babayi nga nagapangahoy. Ginsilingan niya ang babayi, “Palihog dal-i ako sing diutay lang nga tubig para makainom ako.”
Sang nagalakat ang balo sa pagkuha sini, ginsilingan pa gid siya ni Elias, “Palihog dal-i man ako sang tinapay.”
Nagsiling ang balo, “Nagasugid ako sing matuod sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga imo Dios, nga wala na ako sing tinapay. Ang nabilin na lang isa ka hakop nga harina sa yahong kag diutay nga lana sa tibod. Nagapanguha gani ako sang pila lang ka bilog nga kahoy para dal-on sa balay kag lutuon ang nabilin nga harina para sa akon kag sa akon anak, kag pagkatapos sina mapatay na kami sa gutom.”
Nagsiling si Elias sa iya, “Indi ka magkatublag. Pauli ka, kag himua ang imo ginsiling. Pero lutui anay ako sing gamay lang nga tinapay halin sa nabilin mo nga harina, kag dal-a dayon diri sa akon. Pagkatapos magluto ka man para sa imo kag sa imo anak.
Kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, ‘Indi maubusan sang harina ang imo yahong kag indi maubusan sang lana ang imo tibod hasta sa adlaw nga padal-an ko na sang ulan ang duta.’ ”
Naglakat ang babayi kag ginhimo niya ang ginsiling ni Elias. Gani may pagkaon adlaw-adlaw para kay Elias kag para sa balo kag sa iya anak.
Kay wala maubusi sing harina ang yahong kag wala man maubusi sing lana ang tibod, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Elias.
Sang ulihi nagmasakit ang anak sang babayi. Naglala ang iya balatian hasta nga napatay siya.
Nagsiling ang babayi kay Elias, “Ano ang naakigan mo sa akon, alagad sang Dios? Nagkadto ka bala diri sa pagpatay sa akon anak bilang silot sa akon mga sala?”
Nagsabat si Elias, “Ihatag sa akon ang imo bata.” Ginkuha ni Elias ang bata sa iya iloy, kag gindala ini sa ibabaw nga kuwarto, nga sa diin siya nagaestar. Ginpahigda niya ang bata sa iya katre,
Nagsiling dayon ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Elias,
kag nagpanawag siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , “O Ginoo Ginoo , nga akon Dios, ngaa ginpadal-an mo man sang trahedya ining balo nga akon ginaestaran paagi sa pagpatay sa iya bata?”
Ginhap-an dayon ni Elias sing tatlo ka beses ang bata kag nagpanawag sa Ginoo Ginoo , “O Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, buhia ini nga bata!”
Ginsabat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pangamuyo ni Elias, kag nabuhi liwat ang bata.
Dayon gindala ni Elias ang bata sa idalom kag ginhatag sa iya iloy. Nagsiling si Elias, “Tan-awa ang imo bata, buhi siya!”
Nagsiling dayon ang babayi kay Elias, “Karon nahibaluan ko na nga alagad gid ikaw sang Dios, kag matuod nga nagahambal ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa imo.”
“Maghalin ka diri kag magpa-east kag magpanago ka sa Kerit nga ililigan sang tubig, sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Didto ka mag-inom sa ililigan sang tubig, kag suguon ko ang mga uwak sa pagdala sa imo sang pagkaon didto.”
Gintuman ni Elias ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya. Nagkadto siya sa Kerit nga ililigan sang tubig, sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag didto nagtiner.
Ginadal-an siya sang mga uwak sang tinapay kag karne kon aga kag gab-i, kag didto siya nagainom sa ililigan sang tubig.
Sang ulihi naghubas ang ililigan sang tubig kay wala na nag-ulan.
“Magkadto ka sa Zarefat sa Sidon, kag didto magtiner. May ginsugo ako didto nga balo nga babayi nga magpakaon sa imo.”
Tatlo ka tuig na nga wala nag-ulan nga wala nag-ulan . Kag isa sina ka tion, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Elias, “Lakat ka kag magpakita kay Ahab, kay paulanon ko na.”
Nagasugid ako sing matuod sa presensya sang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga imo Dios, nga wala sing nasyon ukon ginharian nga wala pagpadal-i sang akon agalon sang tawo sa pagpangita sa imo. Kon magsiling gani ang mga pangulo sang sadto nga mga nasyon kag mga ginharian nga wala ka sa ila lugar, ginapasumpa sila ni Ahab nga wala gid man nila ikaw makita.
Kag karon ginasugo mo ako nga magkadto sa akon agalon kag silingon siya nga ari ka diri?
Ti ano abi kon sa akon paghalin dal-on ka sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo sa lugar nga wala ko mahibalui? Pag-abot diri ni Ahab nga wala ka, patyon niya ako. Pero, sir, nagaalagad ako sa Ginoo Ginoo halin sang pamatan-on pa ako.
Wala mo bala mabalitaan ang ginhimo ko sang ginpamatay ni Jezebel ang mga propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo ? Gintago ko ang 100 ka propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo sa duha ka kuweba, 50 sa kada kuweba, kag ginhatagan ko sila sang pagkaon kag tubig.
Kag karon ginasugo mo ako nga magkadto sa akon agalon kag silingon siya nga ari ka diri? Patyon niya ako!”
Nagsiling si Elias, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nga akon ginaalagad, nga mapakita ako kay Ahab subong gid nga adlaw.”
Gani nagkadto si Obadias kay Ahab kag ginsugiran niya siya nga ara si Elias, kag naglakat si Ahab sa pagpakigkita kay Elias.
Sang makita ni Ahab si Elias, nagsiling siya, “Ikaw gid bala ina, manughalit sa Israel?”
Nagsabat si Elias, “Indi ako ang manughalit sa Israel, kundi ikaw kag ang pamilya sang imo amay. Kay ginsikway ninyo ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginsimba ninyo ang mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal.
Karon, patipuna sa akon ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel didto sa Bukid sang Carmel. Kag pakadtua man ang 450 ka propeta ni Baal kag ang 400 ka propeta ni Ashera, nga ginapakaon ni Jezebel.”
Karon, puwerte na gid ang gutom sa Samaria.
Gani gintipon ni Ahab ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel kag ang mga propeta sa Bukid sang Carmel.
Nagpalapit si Elias sa mga tawo kag nagsiling, “Hasta san-o pa bala kamo magsunod sa duha ka pagtuluohan? Kon ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Dios, sunda ninyo siya, pero kon si Baal amo ang Dios, sunda ninyo siya.” Pero wala magsabat ang mga tawo.
Nagsiling liwat si Elias sa ila, “Ako na lang ang nabilin sa mga propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero si Baal ya may 450 ka propeta.
Karon dal-i ninyo kami sang duha ka turo nga baka. Dayon magpili ang mga propeta ni Baal sang isa nga ila ihawon kag dayon ibutang sa ibabaw sang gatong, pero indi pagsindihan ang gatong. Amo man ang himuon ko sa isa ka baka; ibutang ko man ini sa ibabaw sang gatong kag indi ko man pagsindihan ang gatong.
Dayon magpangamuyo kamo sa inyo dios, kag ako magapangamuyo man sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang magasabat paagi sa kalayo amo ang matuod nga Dios.” Kag nagsugot ang mga tawo.
Nagsiling dayon si Elias sa mga propeta ni Baal, “Kamo ang mag-una kay madamo kamo. Magpili kamo sang isa ka turo nga baka kag ipreparar ninyo. Magpangamuyo dayon kamo sa inyo dios, pero indi ninyo pagsindihan ang gatong.”
Gani ginkuha sang mga propeta ni Baal ang turo nga baka nga gindala sa ila, kag ginpreparar nila ini. Dayon nagpangamuyo sila kay Baal halin sa aga hasta sa udto. Nagsinggit sila, “O Baal, sabta kami!” Nagsaot-saot pa sila palibot sa halaran nga ila ginhimo. Pero wala sing may nagsabat.
Sang udto na, ginyaguta na sila ni Elias nga nagasiling, “Sige, tuduhi pa ninyo singgit, kay dios man bala siya! Basi nagahanduraw lang siya, ukon nagapahuway-huway,
Gani nagsinggit pa gid sila sing tudo kag ginpilasan nila ang ila mga lawas sang bangkaw kag espada, suno sa ila kinabatasan, hasta nga nag-agay ang dugo.
Nagligad ang udto kag sige gihapon ang ila singgit hasta nga nagsobra na ang ila oras sa paghalad,
Gani ginpatawag ni Ahab si Obadias nga amo ang nagadumala sang iya palasyo. (Si Obadias nagatahod gid sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si Elias sa tanan nga tawo, “Palapit kamo sa akon.” Kag nagpalapit ang mga tawo sa iya. Ginkay-o niya dayon ang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga naguba.
Nagkuha siya sang dose ka bato nga nagarepresentar sa dose ka tribo sang mga anak ni Jacob, ang tawo nga gin-ngalanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Israel.
Ginhimo niya ang mga bato nga halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginkanalan niya ang palibot sang halaran. Ang kanal sarang mabutangan sang mga tunga sa sako nga binhi.
Ginplastar niya sing maayo ang gatong sa halaran kag ginhiwa-hiwa ang baka kag ginbutang ini sa ibabaw sang gatong. Dayon nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, “Bubui ninyo sing apat ka banga nga tubig ang halad kag gatong.” Sang nahimo na nila ini, Sang nahimo na nila ini,
nagsiling si Elias, “Bubui ninyo liwat.” Pagkatapos nila bubo, nagsiling liwat si Elias, “Bubui pa gid ninyo sa ikatlo nga beses.” Gintuman nila ang ginsiling ni Elias.
Nag-ilig ang tubig sa palibot sang halaran kag napuno ang kanal.
Sang tion na sang paghalad, nagpalapit si Propeta Elias sa halaran kag nagpangamuyo. Siling niya, Siling niya, “ Ginoo Ginoo , Dios ni Abraham, ni Isaac, kag ni Jacob,
Sabta ako, Ginoo Ginoo , para mahibaluan sang sini nga mga tawo nga ikaw Ginoo Ginoo ang Dios, kag ginapabalik mo sila sa imo.”
Nag-abot dayon ang kalayo nga halin sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginsunog sini ang halad, ang gatong, ang mga bato kag ang duta, kag ginpahubas ang tubig sa kanal.
Sang makita ini sang tanan nga tawo, nagluhod sila kag nagsiling, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Dios! Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Dios!”
Sang ginpamatay ni Jezebel ang mga propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo , gintago ni Obadias ang 100 ka propeta sa duha ka kuweba, 50 sa kada kuweba, kag ginhatagan niya sila sang pagkaon kag tubig.)
Nagmando dayon si Elias sa mga tawo, “Dakpa ninyo ang mga propeta ni Baal. Kinahanglan wala sing may makapalagyo sa ila!” Gani gindakop nila sila kag gindala sila ni Elias sa Kishon nga ililigan sang tubig kag didto ginpamatay.
Nagsiling si Elias kay Ahab, “Lakat, magkaon ka kag mag-inom, kay nagapadulong ang mabaskog nga ulan.”
Gani naglakat si Ahab para magkaon kag mag-inom, pero si Elias ya nagsaka sa putokputokan sang Carmel kag nagpangamuyo, nga nagpangamuyo, nga nagaluhod kag nagaduko sa duta.
Pagbalik niya kay Elias, Pagbalik niya kay Elias, nagsiling siya, “Wala ako sing may nakita.” Pito ka beses nga nagsiling si Elias sa iya nga magbalik siya kag magtan-aw.
Sang ikapito na nga pagbalik niya, nagsiling siya kay Elias, “May nakita ako nga gal-om nga daw sa palad lang sang tawo kagamay, nga nagapaibabaw halin sa lawod.” Gani nagsiling si Elias, “Lakat, kag silinga si Ahab nga magsakay na siya sa iya karwahe kag magpuli sa indi pa siya maabtan sang ulan.”
Dugay-dugay nagdulom ang langit tungod sa mga gal-om. Naghangin kag nag-ulan sing mabaskog, kag nagsakay si Ahab sa karwahe kag nagkadto sa Jezreel.
Karon, gin-gamhan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Elias. Ginwagkos niya ang iya pangguwa nga bayo sa iya hawak kag nagdalagan siya sing una kay Ahab pakadto sa Jezreel.
Nagsiling si Ahab kay Obadias, “Kadtuan ta ang tanan nga tuburan kag ililigan sang tubig sa aton aton nasyon, kay basi makakita kita sang mga hilamon para sa aton mga kabayo kag mga mula,
Gani gintunga nila kon diin nga parte sang duta sila makadto. Dayon naglakat sila sa tagsa nila ka direksyon.
Samtang nagalakat si Obadias, nasugat-an niya si Elias. Nakilala niya si Elias, gani nagluhod siya bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod sa iya, kag nagsiling, “Ikaw gid bala ina, Sir Elias?”
Nagsabat si Elias, “Huo. Karon lakat ka, kag sugiri ang imo agalon nga si Ahab nga si Ahab nga ari ako diri.”
Pero nagsiling si Obadias, “Sir, indi pag-ibutang sa peligro ang akon kabuhi kay Ahab, kay wala man ako sang sala nga nahimo sa imo.
Karon ginsugiran ni Ahab ang iya asawa nga ang iya asawa nga si Jezebel sang tanan nga ginhimo ni Elias, kag kon paano niya ginpamatay ang tanan nga propeta ni Baal.
Nagsabat siya, “O Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom, nagaalagad gid ako sing matutom sa imo. Pero ginsikway sang mga Israelinhon ang ila kasugtanan sa imo, gin-guba nila ang imo mga halaran, kag ginpamatay ang imo mga propeta. Ako na lang isa ang nabilin, kag ginatinguhaan man nila ako nga patyon.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magguwa ka kag magtindog sa akon presensya sa ibabaw sang bukid, kay maagi ako.” Dayon may nag-agi nga mabaskog nga hangin nga nagtiphag sang mga bukid kag nagdugmok sang mga bato, pero wala ang Ginoo Ginoo sa hangin. Pagkatapos sang hangin, naglinog, pero wala man ang Ginoo Ginoo sa linog.
Pagkatapos sang linog, may kalayo nga nag-abot, pero wala gihapon ang Ginoo Ginoo sa kalayo. Pagkatapos sang kalayo, may mahinay nga tingog nga daw sa nagahutik.
Pagkabati sini ni Elias, gintabunan niya ang iya nawong sang iya pangtabon nga panapton kag nagguwa siya kag nagtindog sa baba sang kuweba. Dayon may tingog nga nagsiling sa iya, “Elias, ano ang ginahimo mo diri?”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Magbalik ka sa imo gin-agyan, kag magkadto sa kamingawan sang Damascus. Pag-abot mo didto, haplasan mo sang lana si Hazael sa pagpakita nga siya na ang hari sang Aram.
Haplasan mo man si Jehu nga anak ni Nimshi bilang hari sang Israel, kag si Elisha
Pamatyon ni Hazael ang mga nagasimba kay Baal. Ang makapalagyo sa iya, pamatyon ni Jehu, kag ang makapalagyo kay Jehu, pamatyon ni Elisha.
Pero ibilin ko ang 7,000 ka Israelinhon nga wala nagluhod kag naghalok sa imahen ni imahen ni Baal.”
Naghalin didto si Elias kag nakita niya si Elisha nga anak ni Shafat nga nagaarado. May onse ka paris sang mga baka sa unahan ni Elisha nga ginaarado sang iya mga kaupod sang iya mga kaupod , kag siya ang nagaarado sang ikadose nga paris sang baka. Nagpalapit si Elias sa iya, kag gintaklap ni Elias ang iya pangtabon nga panapton sa kay Elisha.
Gani nagpadala si Jezebel sang mensahero kay Elias sa pagsiling, “Kabay pa nga silutan ako sang mga dios sing puwerte gid kon sa amo sini nga oras buwas indi ko pa ikaw mapatay, pareho sa ginhimo mo sa mga propeta.”
Ginbayaan ni Elisha ang iya mga baka kag ginlagas si Elias. Nagsiling si Elisha, “Mahalok anay ako kay tatay kag kay nanay sa pagpaalam sa ila, dayon maupod ako sa imo.” Nagsabat si Elias, “Sige, pero indi mo pagkalimtan ang ginhimo ko sa imo.”
Nagbalik si Elisha, kag ginkuha niya ang iya mga baka kag gin-ihaw. Ginhimo niya nga gatong ang mga gota kag mga arado sa pagluto sang karne sang mga baka. Pagkaluto na, ginhatagan niya ang iya mga kaupod nga nagaarado, kag nagkaon sila tanan. Dayon nagsunod siya kay Elias bilang iya kabulig.
Hinadlukan si Elias, gani nagpalagyo siya sa Beersheba nga sakop sang Juda, kag ginbilin niya didto ang iya suluguon.
Dayon naglakat siya sing mga isa ka adlaw pakadto sa kamingawan. Nagpundo siya kag nagpungko sa puno sang kahoy,
Sa hinali lang may anghel nga nagtandog sa iya kag nagsiling, “Bangon kag magkaon.”
Pagtan-aw niya, may nakita siya sa iya uluhan nga tinapay nga ginluto sa ginpainit nga bato, kag tubig nga nasulod sa tibod. Nagkaon siya kag nag-inom, kag naghigda liwat.
Nagbalik ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo kag gintandog niya si Elias kag nagsiling, “Bangon kag magkaon, kay malayo pa ang imo lalakton.”
Gani nagbangon si Elias kag nagkaon kag nag-inom. Nagbaskog siya sa iya ginkaon, kag naglakat siya sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i, hasta nakaabot siya sa Horeb,
Karon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Elias, ano ang ginahimo mo diri?”
Karon, gintipon ni Haring Ben Hadad sang Aram
Nagpadala liwat si Ben Hadad sang mensahi kay Ahab, “Kabay pa nga silutan ako sang mga dios sing puwerte gid kon indi ko malaglag sing bug-os ang Samaria. Siguraduhon ko nga bisan yab-ok wala sing mabilin nga sarang mahakop sang akon mga soldado.”
Nagsabat ang hari sang Israel, “Silinga ninyo siya nga ang soldado nga nagapreparar pa lang sa pagpakig-away indi dapat magpabugal pareho sa soldado nga nakatapos na sa pagpakig-away.”
Nabaton ni Ben Hadad ang sabat ni Ahab samtang nagainom siya kag ang kaupod niya nga mga hari didto sa ila mga tolda.
Sa pihak nga bahin, may nag-abot nga isa ka propeta kay Ahab kag nagsiling, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Nakita mo nga puwerte kadamo ang mga soldado ni Ben Hadad. Pero ipapierdi ko sila sa imo subong nga adlaw, kag dayon mahibaluan mo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagpamangkot si Ahab, “Pero sin-o ang magapierdi sa ila?” Nagsabat ang propeta, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Ang bataon nga mga soldado, nga sa idalom sang awtoridad sang mga gobernador sang mga probinsya, amo ang magapierdi sa ila.’ ” Nagpamangkot si Ahab, “Sin-o ang una nga magsalakay?” Nagsabat ang propeta, “Kamo.”
Gani ginpatawag ni Ahab ang bataon nga mga soldado, nga sa idalom sang awtoridad sang mga gobernador sang mga probinsya—232 sila tanan. Kag gintipon man niya ang iban pa nga mga Israelinhon—7,000 sila tanan.
Udto sila nagsalakay, samtang si Ben Hadad kag ang 32 ka hari nga iya kadampig nagapahubog sa ila mga tolda.
Karon, ang mga ginpadala ni Ben Hadad sa pagpanilag sa Samaria nagsugid sa iya, “May mga soldado nga nagapakadto diri halin sa Samaria.”
Nagsiling si Ben Hadad, “Dakpa ninyo sila kon magkadto sila diri sa pagpakig-away ukon bisan sa pagpakighusay.”
Ang bataon nga mga soldado amo ang nagpanguna sa mga soldado sang Israel,
Nagpadala si Ben Hadad sang mga mensahero sa Samaria sa pagsugid sang sini nga mensahi kay Haring Ahab sang Israel: “Amo ini ang ginsiling ni Ben Hadad:
kag ginpatay sang kada isa sa ila ang ila kaaway. Gani nagpalagyo ang iban nga mga soldado sang Aram, kag ginlagas sila sang mga Israelinhon. Pero si Ben Hadad kag ang iban niya nga mga kaupod nakapalagyo nga nagasakay sa kabayo.
Amo ato ang pagsalakay nila ni Haring Ahab sang Israel. Madamo gid nga mga Arameanhon ang ila ginpamatay, kag ginpanguha nila ang mga kabayo kag mga karwahe sang mga Arameanhon.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpalapit ang propeta sa hari sang Israel kag nagsiling, “Magpreparar ka kag magplano sing maayo, kay magasalakay liwat ang hari sang Aram sa sunod nga tuig.”
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang mga opisyal sang hari sang Aram nagsiling sa iya, “Ang dios sang mga Israelinhon dios sang mga bukid; amo ina nga nagdaog sila. Pero kon magpakig-away kita sa ila sa kapatagan, sigurado gid nga mapierdi ta sila.
Kag kinahanglan nga himuon mo ini: Ang mga kumander na ang padumalahon mo sa mga soldado kag indi ang 32 ka hari.
Dayon magtipon ka sang mga soldado, mga kabayo, kag mga karwahe nga pareho kadamo sadtong mga nagkalawala. Magpakig-away dayon kita sa mga Israelinhon sa kapatagan, kag sigurado gid nga mapierdi ta sila.” Nagsugot si Ben Hadad, kag ginhimo niya ini.
Pagkasunod nga tuig, gintipon ni Ben Hadad ang mga Arameanhon, kag nagkadto dayon sila sa banwa sang Afek sa pagpakig-away sa mga Israelinhon.
Nagtipon man ang mga Israelinhon kag nagpreparar sang ila mga kinahanglanon, kag dayon naglakat sila sa pagpakig-away sa mga Arameanhon. Nagkampo sila nga nagaatubang sa kampo sang mga Arameanhon. Pero pareho lang sila sa duha ka magagmay nga panong sang mga kanding kon ikomparar sa mga Arameanhon nga nagalikop sa kapatagan.
Nagkadto ang alagad sang Dios sa hari sang Israel kag nagsiling, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Nagahunahuna ang mga Arameanhon nga dios ako sang mga bukid kag indi dios sang mga kapatagan. Gani ipapierdi ko sa imo ang ila mga soldado nga puwerte kadamo para mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagkampo ang mga Israelinhon kag ang mga Arameanhon nga nagaatubangay sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Kag sang ikapito nga adlaw nag-away sila. Sa isa lang ka adlaw nakapatay ang mga Israelinhon sing 100,000 ka soldado nga mga Arameanhon.
‘Ang imo mga pilak kag mga bulawan akon, kag ang imo mga asawa kag maayo nga mga kabataan akon man.’ ”
Ang mga nabilin nga mga Arameanhon nagpalagyo sa banwa sang Afek, nga sa diin ang 27,000 sa ila narumpagan sang pader sang banwa. Nagpalagyo man didto si Ben Hadad, kag nagpanago sa isa ka pribado nga kuwarto.
Nagsiling ang iya mga opisyal sa iya, “Nabatian namon nga maluluy-on kuno ang mga hari sang Israel. Gani makadto kami sa hari sang Israel kag magpaubos paagi sa magpaubos paagi sa pagtampi sang sako kag pagburambod sang lubid sa amon mga ulo. Basi pa lang indi ka niya pagpatyon.”
Gani nagtampi sila sang sako kag ginburambudan nila sang lubid ang ila mga ulo. Dayon nagkadto sila sa hari sang Israel kag nagsiling, “Si Ben Hadad nga nagatahod sa imo nagapakitluoy nga kon mahimo indi mo lang siya pagpatyon.” Nagsabat ang hari, “Buhi pa gali siya? Daw pareho lang nga Daw pareho lang nga utod ko siya.”
Pag-abot ni Ben Hadad, ginpasakay siya ni Ahab sa iya karwahe.
Nagsiling si Ben Hadad kay Ahab, “Iuli ko sa imo ang mga banwa nga gin-agaw sang akon amay sa imo amay. Kag puwede ka magpatindog sang mga balaligyaan sa Damascus, pareho sa ginhimo sang akon amay sa Samaria.” Nagsiling si Ahab, “Sa sining gintanyag mo, buy-an ko ikaw.” Gani naghimo sila sang kasugtanan, kag ginpalakat siya ni Ahab.
Karon, ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang isa ka tawo, nga miyembro sang mga propeta, sa pagsiling sa iya nga kaupod, “Abi, sakita ako.” Pero nagbalibad ang tawo.
Gani nagsiling siya sa tawo, “Tungod kay wala mo pagtumana ang Ginoo Ginoo , pagapatyon ka sang leon paghalin mo gid diri.” Paghalin sang tawo, nakita siya sang leon kag ginpatay siya.
May nakita naman ang propeta nga isa ka tawo kag nagsiling siya, “Abi, sakita ako.” Gani ginsakit siya kag napilasan siya.
Dayon naglakat ang propeta kag nagtindog sa dalan nga nagahulat sa hari sang Israel nga mag-agi sang Israel nga mag-agi . Nagpakuno-kuno siya paagi sa pagbutang sang bendahi sa iya mga mata para indi siya makilal-an.
Pag-agi sang hari, nagsinggit ang propeta sa iya, “Sir, nag-upod ako sa inaway, kag didto may tawo nga nagdala sa akon sang bihag kag nagsiling, ‘Bantayi ini nga tawo. Kon makapalagyo siya, patyon ikaw ukon pabayaron sing 35 ka kilo nga pilak.’
Nagpadala sang sabat si Haring Ahab nga nagasiling, “Suno sa ginsiling mo, Mahal nga Hari, imo ako kag ang tanan nga akon.”
Nagsiling ang hari, “Dapat ka silutan suno sa imo ginsiling.”
Ginkuha gilayon sang propeta ang bendahi sa iya mga mata, kag nakilal-an siya sang hari sang Israel nga isa siya sa mga propeta.
Nagsiling siya sa hari, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Tungod nga ginbuy-an mo ang tawo nga ginsiling ko nga dapat patyon, patyon ka sa baylo niya, kag patyon man ang imo katawhan sa baylo sang iya katawhan.”
Nagpuli ang hari sang Israel sa iya palasyo sa Samaria nga masinulub-on kag akig.
Nagbalik liwat ang mga mensahero kay Ahab kag nagsiling, “Amo ini ang ginsiling ni Ben Hadad: ‘Nagsiling na ako sa imo nga ihatag mo sa akon ang imo mga pilak, mga bulawan, mga asawa, kag mga kabataan.
Pero buwas sa amo sini nga oras, pakadtuon ko dira ang akon mga opisyal sa pag-usisa sang imo palasyo kag sang mga balay sang imo mga opisyal. Kuhaon nila ang tanan nga ginakabig mo nga malahalon.’ ”
Ginpatawag sang hari sang Israel ang tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel kag ginsilingan, “Nagapangita gid sang paagi si Ben Hadad nga halitan kita. Nagsugot na gani ako sang ginpangayo niya ang akon mga asawa, mga kabataan, mga pilak, kag mga bulawan.”
Nagsabat ang mga manugdumala kag ang katawhan, “Indi ka na magpasugot sa iya mga ginapangayo.”
Gani ginsilingan niya ang mga mensahero ni Ben Hadad, “Silinga ninyo ang Mahal nga hari nga ihatag ko ang iya una nga ginpangayo, pero ining ikaduha indi ko na mahatag.” Nagpuli ang mga mensahero kag ginsugid nila kay Ben Hadad ang sabat ni Ahab.
Karon, may isa ka tawo nga taga-Jezreel nga ang iya ngalan si Nabot. May talamnan siya sang ubas sa Jezreel sa tupad sang palasyo ni Haring Ahab sang Samaria.
Dayon papungkua ninyo sa iya atubangan ang duha ka malain nga mga tawo para mag-akusar sa iya nga ginpakamalaot niya ang Dios kag ang hari. Dal-a dayon ninyo siya sa guwa sang banwa kag batuhon hasta mapatay.”
Ginhimo sang mga manugdumala kag sang iban pa nga mga opisyal ang ginsiling sa ila ni Jezebel sa sulat.
Gintipon nila ang mga tawo para magpuasa kag ginpapungko nila si Nabot sa unahan sang mga tawo.
Dayon may nag-abot nga duha ka malain nga mga tawo kag nagpungko sa atubangan ni Nabot, kag gin-akusar nila siya sa atubangan sang mga tawo. Siling nila, “Ginpakamalaot ni Nabot ang Dios kag ang hari.” Gani gindala nila si Nabot sa guwa sang banwa kag ginbato hasta nga napatay.
Dayon nagsulat sila kay Jezebel nga ginbato nila si Nabot kag patay na.
Pagkahibalo ni Jezebel nga patay na si Nabot, nagsiling siya kay Ahab, “Patay na si Nabot. Gani maglakat ka kag angkuna ang talamnan sang ubas ni Nabot nga ginbalibad niya nga ibaligya sa imo.”
Pagkabati ni Ahab nga patay na si Nabot, naglakat siya gilayon sa pag-angkon sang talamnan sang ubas ni Nabot.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Elias nga taga-Tishbe,
“Lakat kag kadtui si Haring Ahab sang Israel, nga nagahari sa Samaria. Ara siya sa talamnan sang ubas ni Nabot kay gusto niya ini nga angkunon.
Silinga siya nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: ‘Pagkatapos nga ginpatay mo ang tawo, kuhaon mo pa pati ang iya duta? Tungod sa imo ginhimo, dilapan sang mga ido ang imo dugo sa guwa sang banwa, subong nga gindilapan nila didto ang dugo ni Nabot.’ ”
Isa sina ka tion, nagsiling si Ahab kay Nabot, “Tungod nga malapit sa akon palasyo ang imo talamnan sang ubas, ihatag na lang ina sa akon para himuon ko nga talamnan sang mga utan. Kag bilang baylo, hatagan ko ikaw sang mas maayo nga talamnan sang ubas; ukon kon gusto mo, bayaran ko ikaw sa nagakaigo nga bili sini.”
Pagkakita ni Ahab kay Elias nagsiling siya, “Nakita gid man ako sang akon kaaway!” Nagsabat si Elias, “Huo, nagkadto ako sa imo tungod kay gintugyan mo ang imo kaugalingon sa paghimo sing malain sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo !
Gani amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo sa imo: amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo: ‘Laglagon ko ikaw. Pamatyon ko ang tanan mo nga kaliwat nga lalaki, ulipon man ukon indi.
Laglagon ko ang imo panimalay pareho sa ginhimo ko sa panimalay ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, kag sa panimalay ni Baasha nga anak ni Ahia, tungod kay ginpaakig mo ako kag ikaw ang nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.’
“Kag parte kay Jezebel, nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga pagakaunon siya sang mga ido sa pader sang Jezreel.
(Wala gid sing tawo nga nagtugyan sang iya kaugalingon sa paghimo sang malain sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang ginhimo ni Ahab, nga ginsutsot ni Jezebel nga iya asawa.
Naghimo siya sang makangilil-ad gid nga butang paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios, pareho sa ginhimo sang mga Amornon nga ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.)
Pagkabati ni Ahab sa ginsiling ni Elias, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo kag nagsuksok sang sako, kag nagpuasa. Nagtulog siya nga nagasuksok sang sako, kag naglakat-lakat nga nagapangasubo.
“Nakita mo bala kon daw ano ang pagpaubos ni Ahab sang iya kaugalingon sa akon atubangan? Tungod kay nagpaubos siya, indi ko pag-ipadala ang kalaglagan sa iya panahon, kundi ipadala ko ini sa panimalay sang iya anak kon maghari na siya.”
Ginkadtuan siya ni Jezebel nga iya asawa kag ginpamangkot, “Ngaa nga nagapangasubo ka? Ngaa indi ka magkaon?”
Nagsabat siya sa iya asawa, “Ginsilingan ko si Nabot nga baklon ko ang iya talamnan sang ubas; ukon kon gusto niya, bayluhan ko sang mas maayo nga talamnan sang ubas, pero wala siya magsugot.”
Nagsiling si Jezebel, “Indi bala nga hari ikaw sang Israel? Bangon ka kag magkaon! Magkalipay ka kay ihatag ko sa imo ang talamnan sang ubas ni Nabot nga taga-Jezreel.”
Gani nagsulat si Jezebel sa ngalan ni Ahab, kag ginselyuhan niya ini sang selyo sang hari, kag ginpadala sa mga manugdumala kag sa iban pa nga mga opisyal sang banwa nga sa diin nagaestar si Nabot.
Amo ini ang mensahi sang iya sulat: “Tipuna ninyo ang katawhan para magpuasa, kag papungkua ninyo si Nabot sa unahan sang mga tawo.
Wala nag-inaway ang Aram
Karon, si Haring Ahab Ahab sang Israel kag si Haring Jehoshafat sang Juda, nga nagabayo sang ila harianon nga mga bayo, nagapungko sa ila tagsa ka trono sa atubangan sang linasan nga ara dampi sa puwertahan sang Samaria. Kag nagapamati sila sa ginasiling sang mga propeta.
Si Zedekia nga isa sa mga propeta, nga anak ni Kenaana, may ginhimo nga sulosungay nga salsalon. Nagsiling siya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Paagi sa sini nga sungay, laglagon mo, Haring Ahab, Haring Ahab, ang mga Arameanhon hasta nga maubos sila.”
Amo man ang ginsiling sang tanan nga propeta. Siling nila, “Salakaya ang Ramot Gilead, Haring Ahab, kag magadaog ka, kay itugyan ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.”
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang ginsugo sa pagkuha kay Micaya nagsiling sa iya, “Ang tanan nga propeta palareho nga nagsiling nga magadaog ang hari, gani amo man ina ang imo isiling.”
Pero nagsiling si Micaya, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga ihambal ko lang ang ginapahambal niya sa akon.”
Pag-abot ni Micaya kay Haring Ahab Ahab nagpamangkot ang hari sa iya, “Micaya, salakayon bala namon ang Ramot Gilead ukon indi?” Nagsabat si Micaya, “Salakaya ninyo kag magadaog kamo, kay itugyan ina sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.”
Pero nagsiling ang hari kay Micaya, “Pila gid bala ka beses nga pasumpaon ko ikaw nga sugiran mo ako sing matuod sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo ?”
Gani nagsiling si Micaya, “Nakita ko sa palanan-awon nga naglalapta ang mga Israelinhon sa mga kabukiran pareho sa mga karnero nga wala sing manugbantay, kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Ini nga mga tawo wala na sing pangulo. Papulia sila nga may kalinong.’ ”
Nagsiling si Haring Ahab kay Jehoshafat, “Indi bala ginsilingan ko na ikaw nga wala gid siya sing maayo nga ginapropesiya sa akon kundi puro lang malain?”
Nagsiling pa si Micaya, “Pamatii ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo ! Nakita ko ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagapungko sa iya trono, kag may nagatindog nga mga langitnon nga mga tinuga sa iya tuo kag wala.
Kag sang ikatatlo nga tuig nagpakigkita si Haring Jehoshafat sang Juda sa kay Haring Ahab Ahab sang Israel.
Kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Sin-o ang magaganyat kay Ahab nga magsalakay sa Ramot Gilead para mapatay siya didto?’ Lain-lain ang sabat sang langitnon nga mga tinuga.
Sang ulihi may espiritu nga nagpalapit sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling, ‘Ako ang magaganyat sa iya.’
Nagpamangkot ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Sa ano nga paagi?’ Nagsabat siya, ‘Malakat ako kag pahambalon ko sing binutig ang mga propeta ni Ahab.’ Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Lakat kag himua ina. Magamadinalag-on ka sa pagganyat sa iya.’ ”
Nagsiling dayon si Micaya, Nagsiling dayon si Micaya, “Amo ato ang natabo. Ginpadal-an sang Ginoo Ginoo ang imo mga propeta sang espiritu nga nagpahambal sa ila sing binutig. Ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga malaglag ka.”
Nagpalapit si Zedekia kay Micaya kag gintampa siya. Kag nagsiling si Zedekia, “Paano ka makasiling nga ang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo naghalin sa akon kag nagpakighambal sa imo?”
Nagsabat si Micaya, “Mahibaluan mo ini sa adlaw nga mapierdi kamo sa inaway kag mapierdi kamo sa inaway kag manago ka sa pinakasulod nga kuwarto sang balay.”
Nagmando dayon si Haring Ahab, “Dakpa ninyo si Micaya kag dal-a pabalik kay Amon nga pangulo sang banwa kag kay Joash nga akon anak.
Kag silinga ninyo sila nga nagmando ako nga prisohon ini nga tawo kag hatagan siya sang tinapay lang kag tubig hasta makabalik ako halin sa inaway nga wala maano.”
Nagsiling si Micaya, “Kon makabalik ka pa nga wala maano, ti, ang Ginoo Ginoo wala naghambal paagi sa akon.” Dayon nagsiling si Micaya sa tanan nga tawo didto, “Tandai ninyo ang akon ginsiling!”
Gani nagsalakay sa Ramot Gilead si Haring Ahab Ahab sang Israel kag si Haring Jehoshafat sang Juda.
Nagsiling si Ahab
Nagsiling si Ahab kay Jehoshafat, “Sa tion sang inaway indi ako magpakilala nga ako ang hari, pero ikaw ya magsuksok sang imo harianon nga bayo.” Gani nagpakuno-kuno si Ahab, kag nagpakig-away sila.
Karon, nagmando ang hari sang Aram sa 32 ka kumander sang iya mga karwahe, “Indi ninyo pagsalakayon si bisan sin-o, kundi ang hari lang sang Israel.”
Pagkakita sang mga kumander kay Jehoshafat, naghunahuna sila nga siya ang hari sang Israel, gani ginsalakay nila siya. Pero sang pagsinggit ni Jehoshafat,
nareyalisar sang mga kumander nga indi gali siya ang hari sang Israel, gani nag-untat sila sa paglagas sa iya.
Pero sang nagapamana ang isa ka Arameanhon nga soldado sa mga soldado sang Israel, nalagpatan nga naigo niya ang hari sang Israel sa tinabuan sang iya panagang sa dughan. Nagsiling si Haring Ahab sa nagadala sang iya karwahe, “Ipalayo ako sa inaway! Kay napilasan ako.”
Puwerte na gid ang inaway sadto nga adlaw, kag ang hari sang Israel nagasandig na lang sa iya karwahe nga nagaatubang sa mga Arameanhon. Nagailig ang iya dugo sa karwahe, kag napatay siya pagkahapon.
Sang nagasalop na ang adlaw, may nagsinggit sa mga soldado sang Israel, “Ang tagsa-tagsa magpuli sa iya lugar!”
Gani napatay ang hari sang Israel sang Israel kag gindala ang iya bangkay sa Samaria, kag didto ginlubong.
Ginhugasan nila ang karwahe sa palaligusan sa Samaria, nga sa diin nagapaligo ang mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas, kag ang iya dugo gindilapan sang mga ido. Natabo ini suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Ahab, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, pati ang pagpatindog niya sang matahom nga palasyo, kag ang pagpabakod sang mga banwa, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Gani ginpamangkot ni Ahab si Jehoshafat, “Maupod ka bala sa amon sa pagpakig-away sa Ramot Gilead?” Nagsabat si Jehoshafat kay Ahab, “Handa ako nga mag-upod sa imo, kag handa ako nga ipagamit sa imo ang akon mga soldado kag mga kabayo.
Sang napatay si Ahab, si Ahazia nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Jehoshafat nga anak ni Asa sang ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Ahab sa Israel.
Nagaedad si Jehoshafat sang 35 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 25 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Azuba nga anak ni Shilhi.
Ginsunod gid niya ang pagginawi sang iya amay nga si Asa. Matarong ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pero wala niya pagkuhaa ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, gani ang mga tawo padayon nga naghalad kag nagsunog sang mga insenso didto.
May maayo man nga relasyon si Jehoshafat sa hari sang Israel.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehoshafat, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan, kag ang iya mga pagpakig-away, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Ginpalayas niya ang mga lalaki kag mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas sa mga lugar nga ginasimbahan, nga nabilin sang panahon sang iya amay nga si Asa.
Sadto nga panahon wala sing hari sa Edom; ginadumalahan lang ini sang isa ka pangulo nga ginpili ni Jehoshafat nga ginpili ni Jehoshafat .
May ginpahimo si Jehoshafat nga mga barko nga pangnegosyo
Sadto nga tion, nagsiling si Ahazia nga anak ni Ahab kay Jehoshafat, “Paupda ang akon mga tinawo sa imo mga tinawo sa pagbiyahe.” Pero wala magsugot si Jehoshafat.
Pero pamangkuton ta anay ang Ginoo Ginoo kon ano ang iya masiling.”
Sang napatay si Jehoshafat, ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David. Kag si Jehoram nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Ahazia nga anak ni Ahab sang ika-17 nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoshafat sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Ahazia, kag nag-estar si Ahazia, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , tungod kay nagsunod siya sa iya amay kag iloy, kag kay Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga amo ang nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Nagsimba siya kag nag-alagad kay Baal, gani ginpaakig niya ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, pareho sang ginhimo sang iya amay.
Gani ginpatawag ni Ahab ang mga propeta—mga 400 sila tanan—kag ginpamangkot, “Malakat bala ako sa pagpakig-away sa Ramot Gilead ukon indi?” Nagsabat sila, “Lakat, kay padaugon ka sang Ginoo!”
Pero nagpamangkot si Jehoshafat, “Wala na bala diri sang iban pa nga propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton mapamangkutan?”
Nagsabat si Ahab kay Jehoshafat, “May isa pa nga puwede ta mapamangkutan kon ano ang isiling sang Ginoo Ginoo —si Micaya nga anak ni Imla. Pero akig ako sa iya kay wala gid siya sing ginapropesiya nga maayo parte sa akon kundi puro lang malain.” Nagsabat si Jehoshafat, “Indi ka dapat maghambal sang subong sina.”
Gani ginpatawag ni Ahab ang isa sa iya mga opisyal kag ginsilingan, “Dal-a ninyo diri gilayon si Micaya nga anak ni Imla.”
Pagkatapos nga napatay si Ahab, nagrebelde ang Moab sa Israel.
Nagsabat si Elias sa opisyal, “Kon alagad ako sang Dios, kabay pa nga may magaabot nga kalayo halin sa langit nga magsunog sa imo kag sa imo 50 ka tawo!” May nag-abot dayon nga kalayo kag ginsunog ang opisyal kag ang iya 50 ka tawo.
Nagpadala liwat ang hari sang isa naman ka opisyal kaupod ang 50 ka tawo sa pagdakop sa pagdakop kay Elias. Nagsiling ang opisyal kay Elias, “Alagad sang Dios, nagsiling ang hari nga magkadto ka gilayon sa iya!”
Nagsabat si Elias, “Kon alagad ako sang Dios, kabay pa nga may magaabot nga kalayo halin sa langit nga magsunog sa imo kag sa imo 50 ka tawo!” May nag-abot dayon nga kalayo sang Dios halin sa langit kag ginsunog ang opisyal kag ang iya 50 ka tawo.
Nagpadala pa gid liwat ang hari sang ikatatlo nga opisyal kaupod ang 50 ka tawo. Pag-abot sang opisyal kay Elias nagluhod siya kay Elias bilang pagtahod, bilang pagtahod, kag nagpakitluoy, “Alagad sang Dios, maluoy ka sa akon kag sa akon mga tawo. Indi kami pagpatya nga imo mga alagad.
Nahibaluan ko nga ginsunog sang kalayo nga halin sa langit ang duha ka nahauna nga opisyal kag ang tanan nila nga mga tawo. Pero kami ya kaluoyi!”
Nagsiling ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Elias, “Upod ka sa iya, kag indi ka magkahadlok.” Gani nag-upod si Elias sa opisyal pakadto sa hari.
Pag-abot ni Elias sa hari nagsiling siya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Ngaa nagpadala ka sang mga mensahero sa pagpamangkot kay Baal Zebub nga dios sang Ekron? Wala bala sang Dios sa Israel nga imo mapamangkutan? Gani indi ka na makabangon sa imo ginahigdaan. Sigurado gid nga mapatay ka!’ ”
Gani napatay ang hari suno sa ginhambal sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Elias. Tungod kay wala sing anak nga lalaki si Ahazia, si Joram
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Ahazia, kag ang iya mga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Isa ka adlaw, nahulog si Ahazia halin sa rehas-rehas sang ibabaw nga kuwarto sang iya palasyo sa Samaria, kag nabalda siya. Gani nagpadala siya sang mga mensahero sa pagpamangkot kay Baal Zebub, ang dios sang Ekron, kon bala maulian pa siya sa iya pagkabalda.
Karon, nagsiling ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Elias nga taga-Tishbe nga sugataon niya ang mga mensahero sang hari sang Samaria kag ihambal ini sa ila: “Ngaa makadto kamo sa pagpamangkot kay Baal Zebub nga dios sang Ekron? Wala bala sang Dios sa Israel?
Gani karon, silinga ninyo si Ahazia nga silinga ninyo si Ahazia nga amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya sa iya , ‘Indi ka na makabangon sa imo ginahigdaan. Sigurado gid nga mapatay ka!’ ” Gani naglakat si Elias.
Ang mga mensahero nagbalik sa hari. Gani ginpamangkot sila sang hari, “Ngaa nagbalik kamo?”
Nagsabat sila, “May tawo nga nagsugata sa amon kag nagsiling siya nga magbalik kami sa imo kag ihambal sa imo ining ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Ngaa nagpasugo ka sang mga tawo sa pagpamangkot kay Baal Zebub nga dios sang Ekron? Wala bala sang Dios sa Israel? Gani indi ka na makabangon sa imo ginahigdaan. Sigurado gid nga mapatay ka!’ ”
Nagpamangkot ang hari sa ila, “Ano ang hitsura sang tawo nga nagsugata kag nagsiling sina sa inyo?”
Nagsabat sila, “Nagabayo siya sang bayo nga hinimo halin sa bulbol sang sapat kag nagapaha sang panit.” Nagsiling ang hari, “Si Elias ato nga taga-Tishbe.”
Dayon ginpakadto sang hari ang isa ka opisyal
Sang tion nga kuhaon na sang Ginoo Ginoo si Elias pa-langit paagi sa isa ka buhawi, nagalakat si Elias kag si Elisha halin sa Gilgal.
Nagsiling si Elias, “Mabudlay inang imo ginapangayo. Pero, mabaton mo ini kon makita mo ako nga ginakuha, pero kon indi, indi mo ini mabaton.”
Samtang nagalakat sila nga nagaestoryahanay, gulpi lang nga may nag-abot nga karwahe nga kalayo nga ginaguyod sang mga kabayo nga kalayo. Nag-agi ini sa ila tunga kag nagseparar sa ila, kag gindala si Elias pa-langit paagi sa isa ka buhawi.
Nakita ini ni Elisha kag nagsinggit siya, “Amay ko! Amay ko! Ang mga karwahe kag mga manugkarwahe sang Israel!”
Dayon ginpulot niya ang pangtabon nga panapton ni Elias nga nahulog, kag nagbalik siya sa higad sang Suba sang sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagtindog didto.
Ginhampak niya ang tubig sang pangtabon nga panapton ni Elias kag nagsiling, “Diin na karon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios ni Elias?” Sang ginhimo niya ato, natunga ang tubig, kag nagtabok dayon siya.
Sang makita sang grupo sang mga propeta nga halin sa Jerico ang natabo, nagsiling sila, “Ang gahom ni Elias ara kay Elisha!” Gani ginsugata nila si Elisha kag nagluhod sila bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod sa iya.
Nagsiling sila, “Sir, may kaupod kami nga 50 ka mabakod nga mga tawo. Kon gusto mo, ipapangita ta sa ila ang imo agalon. Basi bala gindala lang siya sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo sa isa ka bukid ukon sa isa ka pulopatag.” Nagsabat si Elisha, “Indi sila pagpalakta.”
Pero nagpamilit gid sila hasta nga nahuya na lang siya magpangindi magpangindi . Gani nagsiling siya, “Sige, palakta ninyo sila.” Gani ginpalakat nila ang 50 ka tawo, kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw ginpangita nila si Elias pero wala gid nila siya makita.
Pagbalik nila kay Elisha, nga ara pa sa Jerico, nagsiling si Elisha sa ila, “Ti, indi bala nga nagsiling ako sa inyo nga indi kamo maglakat?”
Ang mga tawo sa banwa nagsiling kay Elisha, “Sir, nakita mo man nga maayo ang nahamtangan sang amon banwa. Pero indi maayo ang tubig, kag tungod sini ang mga tanom indi magtubo.”
Nagsiling si Elias kay Elisha, “Diri ka lang, kay ginapakadto ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Betel.” Pero nagsiling si Elisha, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo kag sa imo nga indi gid ako magbulag sa imo.” Gani nagkadto sila sa Betel.
Nagsiling si Elisha, “Dal-i ninyo ako sang bag-o nga yahong kag butangi sang asin.” Gani gindal-an nila siya sini.
Naglakat dayon siya sa tuburan kag ginhaboy didto ang asin kag nagsiling, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Gintinluan ko na ini nga tubig, kag indi na ini makapatay ukon makapauntat sa pagtubo sang tanom.
Kag halin sadto, matinlo na ang tubig, suno sa ginsiling ni Elisha nga matabo.
Naghalin si Elisha sa Jerico kag nagkadto sa Betel. Samtang nagalakat siya sa dalan, may mga pamatan-on nga lalaki nga naghalin sa isa ka banwa kag naglango-lango sa iya. Nagsiling sila, “Kalbo, halin diri!
Nagbalikid si Elisha kag gintulok niya ang mga pamatan-on kag ginpakamalaot sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon may duha ka babayi nga bear nga nagguwa halin sa kakahuyan kag ginus-ab ang 42 ka pamatan-on.
Nagkadto dayon si Elisha sa Bukid sang Carmel, kag pagkatapos nagbalik siya sa Samaria.
Karon, may grupo sang mga propeta didto sa Betel nga nagkadto kay Elisha kag nagpamangkot, “Nahibaluan mo bala nga kuhaon na sang Ginoo Ginoo subong nga adlaw ang imo agalon?” Nagsabat si Elisha, “Huo, nahibaluan ko, pero indi lang naton paghambalan ina.”
Dayon nagsiling si Elias kay Elisha, “Diri ka lang, kay ginapakadto ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerico.” Nagsabat si Elisha, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo kag sa imo nga indi gid ako magbulag sa imo.” Gani naglakat sila sa Jerico.
Karon, may grupo sang mga propeta didto sa Jerico nga nagpalapit kay Elisha kag nagpamangkot, “Nahibaluan mo bala nga kuhaon na sang Ginoo Ginoo subong nga adlaw ang imo agalon?” Nagsabat si Elisha, “Huo, nahibaluan ko, pero indi lang naton paghambalan ina.”
Dayon nagsiling si Elias kay Elisha, “Diri ka lang, kay ginapakadto ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.” Nagsabat si Elisha, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo kag sa imo nga indi gid ako magbulag sa imo.” Gani nagpadayon sila nga duha sa paglakat.
Karon, may 50 ka tawo nga miyembro sang grupo sang mga propeta nga nagtindog sa ulo-unhan, nga nagaatubang sa lugar nga ginpunduhan ni Elias kag ni Elisha sa may Suba sang may Suba sang Jordan.
Ginhukas ni Elias ang iya pangtabon nga panapton kag ginlukot ini kag ginhampak sa tubig. Natunga dayon ang tubig, kag nagtabok sila nga duha sa mamala nga duta.
Pagkatabok nila, nagsiling si Elias kay Elisha, “Ano ang gusto mo nga himuon ko sa imo antes ako kuhaon sa imo?” Nagsabat si Elisha, “Gusto ko nga mapanubli sing doble ang imo gahom.”
Nangin hari sang Israel si Joram nga anak ni Ahab sang ika-18 nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoshafat sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Joram, kag nag-estar si Joram, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang dose ka tuig.
Nagsiling ang hari sang Israel, “Kaluluoy gid kita nga tatlo ka hari! Gindala kita sang Ginoo Ginoo diri para itugyan lang sa hari sang hari sang Moab.”
Pero nagpamangkot si Jehoshafat, “Wala bala kita sing upod nga propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo ? Kon may ara, makapamangkot kita sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya kon ano ang aton himuon.” Nagsabat ang isa ka opisyal sang hari sang Israel, “Si Elisha nga anak ni Shafat ari diri. Kabulig siya sadto ni Elias.”
Nagsiling si Jehoshafat, “Ti, makahambal ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya.” Gani nagkadto ang hari sang Israel, Juda, kag Edom kay Elisha.
Nagsiling si Elisha sa hari sang Israel, “Ano ang labot ko sa imo? Magkadto ka sa mga propeta sang imo amay kag iloy!” Nagsiling ang hari sang Israel, “Indi! Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagdala sa amon nga tatlo diri para itugyan lang sa hari sang hari sang Moab.”
Nagsiling si Elisha, “Nagasugid ako sing matuod sa presensya sang buhi kag Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga akon ginaalagad, nga indi kuntani ako magsapak sa imo kon indi tungod sa akon pagtahod kay Haring Jehoshafat sang Juda.
Samtang ginatukar ang arpa, gin-gamhan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Elisha,
kag nagsiling siya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Ini nga ililigan mapuno sang tubig.
Bisan wala sing ulan ukon hangin, mapuno ini nga ililigan sang tubig, kag makainom kamo kag ang inyo mga kasapatan.
Mahapos lang ini nga butang para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Wala labot sina, ipapierdi pa niya sa inyo ang mga Moabnon.
Laglagon ninyo ang ila maayo nga mga banwa nga napalibutan sang mga pader. Panapson ninyo ang ila maayo nga mga kahoy, tabunan ang ila mga tuburan, kag panggub-on ang ila mapatubason nga mga uma paagi sa pagbutang sang mga bato.’ ”
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero indi pareho kalain sa ginhimo sang iya amay kag iloy. Ginpaguba niya ang handumanan nga bato nga ginpahimo sang iya amay bilang pagpadungog kay Baal.
Pagkasunod nga aga, sang tion sang paghalad, nag-ilig ang tubig halin sa Edom, kag napuno sang tubig ang amo nga duta.
Karon, nabalitaan sang tanan nga Moabnon nga nagsalakay ang tatlo ka hari sa ila. Gani gintipon nila ang tanan nga makasarang sa pagpakig-away, pamatan-on man ukon tigulang, kag ginpaplastar sila sa border sang Moab sang Moab .
Pagbangon nila pagkaaga, nakita nila ang tubig nga daw sa dugo kapula sang masilakan sang adlaw.
Nagsiling sila, “Dugo ina! Sigurado nga nag-inaway ang tatlo ka hari kag nagpinatyanay. Gani kuhaon ta ang ila mga pagkabutang!”
Pero pag-abot sang mga Moabnon sa kampo sang mga Israelinhon, nagguwa ang mga Israelinhon kag ginsalakay sila hasta nga nagpalalagyo sila. Ginlagas nila sila hasta sa ila lugar kag ginpamatay sila.
Ginpangguba nila ang mga banwa, kag ginhabuyan sang mga bato ang mapatubason nga mga uma hasta nga natabunan ini sang mga bato. Ginpangtabunan nila ang mga tuburan, kag ginpangtapas ang maayo nga mga kahoy. Sang ulihi ang Kir Hareset na lang ang nabilin, pero ginpalibutan pa gid nila ini sang ila mga soldado nga may mga labyog kag ginsalakay.
Pagkakita sang hari sang Moab nga pierdi sila sa inaway, gindala niya ang 700 ka tawo nga may mga espada sa paglusot sa mga soldado sang mga soldado sang hari sang Edom, pero napaslawan sila.
Gani ginkuha niya ang kamagulangan niya nga anak nga amo kuntani ang magabulos sa iya bilang hari, kag ginhalad niya ini sa may pader bilang halad nga ginasunog. Tungod sini puwerte gid ang kaakig
Pero nagsunod siya sa mga sala ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel. Wala gid siya nagbiya sa sini nga mga sala.
Si Haring Mesha sang Moab nagasagod sang mga karnero, kag tungod nga sakop sang Israel ang ila nasyon, tungod nga sakop sang Israel ang ila nasyon, nagahatag siya kada tuig kada tuig sa hari sang Israel sang 100,000 ka bataon nga mga karnero nga lalaki, kag mga bulbol sang 100,000 ka gulang nga mga karnero nga lalaki.
Pero pagkapatay ni Ahab, nagrebelde siya sa hari sang Israel.
Gani sadto nga tion, gintipon ni Joram ang bilog nga Israel kag nagguwa sila sa Samaria sa pagsalakay sa Moab sa pagsalakay sa Moab .
Nagpadala siya sang sini nga mensahi kay Haring Jehoshafat sang Juda: “Nagrebelde sa akon ang hari sang Moab. Maupod ka bala sa akon sa pagpakig-away sa ila?” Nagsabat si Jehoshafat, “Huo, handa ako nga mag-upod sa imo, kag handa ako nga ipagamit sa imo ang akon mga soldado kag mga kabayo.”
Nagpamangkot dayon si Jehoshafat, “Diin kita maagi kon magsalakay kita?” Nagsabat si Joram, “Sa kamingawan sang Edom.”
Gani naglakat ang hari sang Israel kag ang hari sang Juda, pati ang hari sang Edom. Pagkatapos sang pito ka adlaw nga paglakat, naubusan sang tubig ang mga soldado kag ang ila mga sapat.
May isa ka balo nga babayi nga ang iya bana nga napatay nga napatay miyembro sadto sang grupo sang mga propeta. Isa ka adlaw, nagpangayo siya sang bulig kay Elisha. Siling niya, “Patay na ang akon bana nga imo alagad kag nahibaluan mo nga nagatahod siya sa Ginoo Ginoo . Karon, ang tawo nga iya nautangan nag-abot para kuhaon ang amon duha ka anak nga lalaki para himuon nga ulipon bilang bayad sa utang bilang bayad sa utang .”
Himuan ta siya sang gamay nga kuwarto sa may atop, kag butangan ta sang katre, lamisa, bangko, kag suga, para kon magkadto siya diri sa aton puwede siya makatiner didto.”
Isa ka adlaw, sang nagkadto si Elisha sa Shunem, nagsaka siya sa kuwarto kag nagpahuway didto.
Ginsugo niya ang iya suluguon nga si Gehazi nga tawgon ang babayi. Gani gintawag ni Gehazi ang babayi, kag pag-abot sang babayi,
nagsiling si Elisha sa iya suluguon, “Pamangkuta siya kon ano ang aton mahimo para sa iya, sa iya maayo nga pag-atipan sa aton. Basi kon may ipapangabay siya sa aton sa hari ukon sa kumander sang mga soldado.” Nagsabat ang babayi, “ Indi na kinahanglan, kay Indi na kinahanglan, kay maayo ang akon kahimtangan diri upod sa akon mga kasimanwa.”
Nagpamangkot si Elisha kay Gehazi, “Ti, ano ang aton mahimo para sa iya?” Nagsabat si Gehazi, “Wala siya sing bata nga lalaki kag tigulang na ang iya bana.”
Nagsiling si Elisha, “Tawga siya liwat.” Gani gintawag siya ni Gehazi, kag nagtindog siya sa puwertahan.
Nagsiling si Elisha sa iya sa iya , “Sa amo man sini nga tion sa sunod nga tuig may ginakugos ka na nga bata nga lalaki.” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Indi ka magbutig sa akon, sir. Alagad ka sang Dios.”
Pero nagbusong matuod ang babayi, kag nagbata siya sing lalaki sa amo gid nga tion sang sunod nga tuig, suno sa ginsiling sa iya ni Elisha.
Isa ka adlaw, sang dako na ang bata, nagkadto siya sa iya amay nga ara sa uma nga nagaobra upod sa mga manug-ani.
Hinali lang nga nagsinggit siya sa iya amay, “Masakit ang ulo ko! Masakit ang ulo ko!” Nagsiling ang iya amay sa suluguon, “Dal-a siya sa iya iloy!”
Nagsiling si Elisha sa iya, “Ano ayhan ang mabulig ko sa imo? Sugiri ako, ano ang ara sa imo balay?” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Wala gid, sir, luwas lang sa diutay nga lana sa tibod.”
Gani gindala sang suluguon ang bata sa iya iloy, kag ginsabak niya siya. Pero pagkaudto napatay ang bata.
Gindala sang iloy ang bangkay sang iya anak sa kuwarto ni Elisha sa ibabaw, kag ginbutang sa katre. Dayon nagguwa siya sa kuwarto kag ginsira ang puwertahan.
Gintawag sang babayi ang iya bana kag ginsilingan, “Palihog, padal-i ako sang isa ka suluguon kag isa ka donkey para makadali-dali ako kadto sa alagad sang Dios, kag makabalik dayon.”
Nagpamangkot ang iya bana, “Ngaa makadto ka gid subong nga indi man ini Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan ukon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway?” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Sige lang.”
Gani ginbutangan niya sang pulungkuan ang donkey kag nagsiling sa iya suluguon, “Dali na! Kag indi pagpahinaya ang donkey kon indi ako magsiling sa imo.”
Gani naglakat sila, kag nakaabot sila sa Bukid sang Carmel, nga sa diin ara ang alagad sang Dios. Pagkakita ni Elisha sa babayi sa unhan, nagsiling siya sa iya suluguon nga si Gehazi, “Tan-awa, ara ang babayi nga taga-Shunem!
Dalagan kag sugataa siya kag pamangkuta kon kamusta siya, ang iya bana, kag ang iya anak.” Ginsugiran sang babayi si Gehazi nga maayo man ang tanan.
Pero pag-abot niya kay Elisha sa bukid, nagluhod siya kag nagluhod siya kag gin-uyatan niya ang tiil ni Elisha. Nagpalapit si Gehazi para itikwang siya palayo, pero nagsiling si Elisha, “Pabay-i lang siya! Kay ara siya sa kalisod, pero wala ginsugid sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon kon ngaa.”
Nagsiling ang babayi, “Sir, wala ako nagpangayo sa imo sang anak nga lalaki; ikaw mismo ang nagsiling nga makabata pa ako ikaw mismo ang nagsiling nga makabata pa ako . Nagsiling pa gani ako sa imo nga indi mo ako pagpasaligon.”
Sang mareyalisar ni Elisha nga may natabo sa bata, Sang mareyalisar ni Elisha nga may natabo sa bata, nagsiling siya kay Gehazi, “Magpreparar ka sa pagkadto sa iya balay sa iya balay . Dal-a ang akon sungkod kag magdalagan. Kon may masugata ka, indi ka na magpanamyaw, kag kon may magpanamyaw sa imo indi ka na magsabat.
Nagsiling si Elisha, “Kadtui ang tanan mo nga kasilingan kag magpanghulam ka sang madamo nga suludlan.
Pero nagsiling ang iloy sang bata kay Elisha, kay Elisha, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo kag sa imo, nga indi gid ako magpuli kon indi ka mag-upod sa akon.” Gani naglakat si Elisha upod sa iya.
Nag-una si Gehazi kag ginbutang niya ang sungkod sa guya sang bata, pero wala gid nagtingog ukon naghulag ang bata. Gani nagbalik si Gehazi sa pagsugata kay Elisha kag nagsiling, “Wala gid mabuhi ang bata.”
Sang pag-abot ni Elisha sa balay, nakita niya didto sa iya kuwarto didto sa iya kuwarto ang bata nga nagahamyang sa iya katre.
Nagsulod siya kag ginsira ang puwertahan, kag nagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon ginhap-an niya ang bata, nga ang iya baba sa baba sang bata, ang iya mata sa mata sang bata, kag ang iya kamot sa kamot sang bata. Samtang ginahap-an niya ang bata, amat-amat nga nag-init ang lawas sang bata.
Nagtindog si Elisha, kag nagpakadto-pakari sa kuwarto. Dayon ginhap-an niya liwat ang bata. Nagpangatsi ang bata sing makapito ka beses, dayon ginmuklat niya ang iya mga mata.
Gintawag ni Elisha si Gehazi kag ginsilingan, “Tawga ang iya iloy.” Gani gintawag niya siya. Pag-abot sang babayi nagsiling si Elisha sa iya, “Kuhaa ang imo bata.”
Nagsulod ang babayi kag nagluhod sa tiilan ni Elisha sa pagpasalamat sa pagpasalamat
Sang pagbalik ni Elisha sa Gilgal, may gutom didto. Karon, Karon, samtang nagapakig-estorya ang grupo sang mga propeta sa iya, nagsiling siya sa iya suluguon, “Isun-ad ang dako nga kolon kag magluto sang sopas para sa sini nga mga tawo.”
Ang isa sa mga propeta nagkadto sa uma sa pagpangutan. Nakakita siya sang utan nga nagakabod lang didto, kag nagpanguha siya sang mga bunga sini nga sarang lang niya madala sa iya bayo. Pagpuli niya, ginpangkihad-kihad niya ini kag ginlakot sa ginaluto nga sopas, nga wala gani niya nahibaluan kon ano ato.
Dayon magsulod kamo sang imo mga anak sa inyo balay kag siraduhi ninyo ang puwertahan. Ibubo ninyo sa tanan nga suludlan ang lana nga ara sa tibod nga ara sa tibod . Pagkapuno sang kada suludlan, paina dayon.”
Pagkaluto sang sopas, Pagkaluto sang sopas, ginserbi dayon ini sa mga tawo. Pero sang nagkaon na sila, nagsinggit sila, “Alagad sang Dios, kalain gid sang iya sabor!”
Nagsiling si Elisha, “Kuhai ako sang harina.” Ginbubo niya dayon ang harina sa kolon kag nagsiling sa suluguon, sa suluguon, “Sige, iserbi na ini sa ila para makakaon sila.” Kag maayo na ang sabor sini.
Sang isa naman ka tion, Sang isa naman ka tion, may isa ka tawo nga halin sa Baal Shalisha nga nagdala kay Elisha, nga Elisha, nga alagad sang Dios, sang sako nga may unod nga 20 ka tinapay nga hinimo halin sa nahauna nga patubas sang barley, kag bag-o nga inani nga uyas. Nagsiling si Elisha, “Ihatag ina sa grupo sang mga propeta
Nagsiling ang iya kabulig, “Paano ko ini mapaigo sa 100 ka tawo?” Nagsabat si Elisha, “Ihatag lang sa ila para makakaon sila. Kay nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga makakaon sila kag may mabilin pa.”
Gani ginhatag ini sang suluguon sa mga propeta kag nagkaon sila, kag may nabilin pa, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ginhimo sang babayi ang ginsiling ni Elisha sa iya, kag nagpanirado sila sang iya mga anak sa ila balay. Dayon gindala sang iya mga anak ang mga suludlan sa iya, kag ginbutangan niya ini sang lana.
Sang napuno na ang tanan nga suludlan, nagsiling siya sa iya anak, “Hatagi pa ako sang suludlan.” Nagsabat ang iya anak, “Wala na sang suludlan.” Kag nag-untat dayon ang pag-ilig sang lana.
Nagkadto ang babayi kay Elisha nga Elisha nga alagad sang Dios kag ginsugiran niya siya sa natabo. Nagsiling si Elisha sa iya, “Lakat kag ibaligya ang lana kag bayari ang imo utang. May sobra ka pa nga kuwarta nga mabilin nga sarang makabuhi sa imo kag sa imo mga anak.”
Isa ka adlaw, nagkadto si Elisha sa Shunem. May manggaranon didto nga babayi nga nag-agda kay Elisha nga magkaon. Halin sadto, kon mag-agi si Elisha sa Shunem, nagahapit siya sa balay sang babayi kag magkaon.
Karon nagsiling ang babayi sa iya bana, “Nahibaluan ko nga ining tawo nga nagahapit diri permi sa aton isa ka balaan nga alagad sang Dios.
Si Naaman nga kumander sang mga soldado sang Aram
Nagsugo si Elisha sang mensahero sa pagsiling kay Naaman nga magkadto siya sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag magpanghugas sang iya kaugalingon sing makapito ka beses, kag magaayo siya.
Pero nangakig si Naaman kag naglakat nga nagakumod, “Abi ko sigurado gid nga magguwa siya kag mag-atubang sa akon. Nagpaabot ako nga magpanawag siya sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios kag magbayaw sang iya kamot sa ibabaw sang akon balatian sa panit kag ayuhon ako.
Indi bala nga mas maayo ang mga suba sang Abana kag sang Farfar sa Damascus sang sa iban nga mga suba diri sa Israel? Ngaa indi ako magpanghugas didto para mag-ayo ako?” Gani naglakat siya nga akig gid.
Pero nagpalapit ang iya mga suluguon sa iya kag nagsiling, “Sir, kon nagsugo ang propeta sa imo sa paghimo sang dako nga butang, indi bala nga himuon mo? Ti, ngaa indi mo paghimuon ang iya ginsiling nga magpanghugas ka para mag-ayo ka?”
Gani naglakat si Naaman sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagpanghugas sang iya kaugalingon sing makapito ka beses, suno sa ginsiling sang alagad sang Dios. Kag nag-ayo ang iya balatian kag naglimpyo ang iya panit pareho sa panit sang isa ka gamay nga bata.
Dayon nagbalik si Naaman kag ang iya mga kaupod sa alagad sang Dios. Nagtindog siya sa atubangan ni Elisha kag nagsiling, “Karon nahibaluan ko na nga wala sing iban nga Dios sa bilog nga kalibutan luwas sa Dios sang Israel. Gani palihog batuna ining regalo ko sa imo, sir.”
Nagsabat si Elisha, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nga akon ginaalagad, nga indi ako magbaton sang regalo.” Ginpilit siya ni Naaman nga batunon niya ang regalo, pero indi gid siya magbaton.
Nagsiling si Naaman, “Kon indi ka gid, sir, tuguti na lang ako nga kargahan ko ang akon duha ka kabayo
Pero kabay pa, sir, nga patawaron ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kon mag-upod ako sa akon hari sa templo sang dios nga si Rimmon para magsimba didto. Dapat lang nga himuon ko ini bilang isa ka opisyal nga ginasaligan sang hari. Pero kabay pa nga patawaron ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kon magluhod man ako didto.”
Pero indi pa gani malayo ang nalaktan ni Naaman,
Sang nagsalakay ang mga soldado sang Aram sa Israel, may nabihag sila nga dalagita nga nangin suluguon sang asawa ni Naaman.
nagsiling si Gehazi sa iya kaugalingon sa iya kaugalingon , “Ginpalakat sang akon agalon si Naaman nga Arameanhon nga wala niya pagbatuna ang regalo nga dala niya. Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga lagson ko siya kag magkuha sang bisan ano sa iya.”
Gani dali-dali nga ginlagas ni Gehazi si Naaman. Pagkakita ni Naaman kay Gehazi nga nagadalagan pakadto sa iya, nagpanaog siya sa karwahe kag ginsugata siya. Nagpamangkot si Naaman, “May malain bala nga natabo?”
Nagsabat si Gehazi, “Wala man. Ginsugo lang ako sang akon agalon nga silingon ka nga may nag-abot bag-o lang gid nga duha ka bataon nga tawo nga miyembro sang grupo sang mga propeta, nga halin sa kabukiran sang Efraim. Kag nagpangabay ang akon agalon nga hatagan mo sila sang 35 ka kilo nga pilak kag duha ka panid nga bayo.”
Nagsiling si Naaman, “Huo, ari ang 70 ka kilo nga pilak.” Kag ginpilit pa siya ni Naaman nga batunon ato. Ginsulod ni Naaman ang pilak sa duha ka bag pati ang duha ka panid nga bayo, kag ginhatag ini sa iya duha ka suluguon nga amo ang magdala sini para kay Gehazi.
Pag-abot ni Gehazi sa bukid, ginkuha niya sa mga suluguon ang duha ka bag kag ginpabalik sila. Dayon gindala niya ato sa balay kag gintago,
kag nagpakita siya dayon kay Elisha. Nagpamangkot si Elisha sa iya, “Diin ka naghalin, Gehazi?” Nagsabat si Gehazi, “Wala ako sing may ginkadtuan.”
Pero nagsiling si Elisha, “Wala ka bala kahibalo nga ang akon espiritu ato didto sang nagpanaog si Naaman sa iya karwahe sa pagsugata sa imo? Indi ini tion sa pagbaton sang kuwarta, bayo, talamnan sang olibo, talamnan sang ubas, kasapatan, kag mga ulipon nga lalaki kag babayi.
Tungod nga ginhimo mo ini, ang balatian sa panit ni Naaman magasaylo sa imo kag sa imo mga kaliwat hasta san-o.” Paghalin ni Gehazi kay Elisha nagputi gid ang iya panit tungod sa balatian.
Isa ka adlaw, nagsiling ining dalagita sa iya ama, “Kon magpakigkita lang ang akon agalon nga si Naaman nga si Naaman sa propeta nga didto sa Samaria, ayuhon gid niya siya sa iya balatian sa panit.”
Gani ginsugiran ni Naaman ang hari parte sa ginsiling sang dalagita nga halin sa Israel.
Nagsiling ang hari sang Aram, “Lakat, kag dal-on mo ang akon sulat sa hari sang Israel.” Gani naglakat si Naaman nga may dala nga regalo nga regalo nga 350 ka kilo nga pilak, 70 ka kilo nga bulawan kag napulo ka panid nga bayo.
Amo ini ang mensahi sang sulat nga gindala niya sa hari: “Ginapadala ko dira si Naaman nga akon alagad para ayuhon mo siya sa iya balatian sa panit.”
Pagkabasa sang hari sang Israel sang sulat, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kalain sang buot sa kalain sang buot kag nagsiling, “Ngaa sa akon niya ginpadala ining tawo para ayuhon ang iya balatian sa panit? Ano ako, Dios? May gahom bala ako sa pagpatay kag sa pagbuhi? Nagapangita lang siya sang kabangdanan nga mag-away kami!”
Pagkahibalo ni Elisha, nga alagad sang Dios, sa natabo, nagpadala siya sang sini nga mensahi sa hari: “Ngaa gin-gisi mo ang imo bayo? Pakadtua diri sa akon ina nga tawo, kag mahibaluan niya nga may propeta sa Israel.”
Gani naglakat si Naaman upod sa iya mga kabayo kag karwahe kag nagpundo sa puwertahan sang balay ni Elisha.
Isa ka tion, nagsiling kay Elisha ang grupo sang mga propeta, “Nakita mo mismo nga gamay ining lugar nga amon ginapakigkitaan sa imo.
Gani nagpasugo ang hari sang Israel sa sina nga lugar nga ginsiling ni Elisha nga hambalon ang mga pumuluyo didto nga mag-andam sila. Permi ini ginahimo ni Elisha.
Tungod sini nangakig gid ang hari sang Aram. Gani ginpatawag niya ang iya mga opisyal kag ginsilingan, “Sin-o sa inyo ang nagadampig sa hari sang Israel?”
Nagsiling ang isa sang iya mga opisyal, “Wala gid sing bisan isa sa amon, Mahal nga Hari. Si Elisha nga propeta sa Israel amo ang nagasugid sa hari sang Israel sang tanan nga ginahambal mo bisan pa ang ginahambal mo sa imo kuwarto.”
Sang ginsugiran ang hari nga si Elisha ara sa Dotan,
nagpadala siya didto sang madamo nga soldado nga nagasakay sa mga kabayo kag mga karwahe. Nakaabot sila sa Dotan sang gab-i kag ginpalibutan nila ini.
Pagkaaga, aga pa gid nagbugtaw ang suluguon ni Elisha, kag nakita niya ang mga soldado nga nagasakay sa mga kabayo kag mga karwahe nga nagapalibot sa banwa. Nagsiling siya kay Elisha, “Sir, ano na lang ang aton himuon?”
Nagsabat si Elisha, “Indi ka magkahadlok. Mas madamo ang aton mga kaupod sang sa ila.”
Nagpangamuyo dayon si Elisha, “ Ginoo Ginoo , buksi ang iya mga mata para makita niya.” Ginbuksan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya mga mata, kag nakita niya ang kabukiran sa palibot ni Elisha nga puno sang mga kabayo kag mga karwahe nga kalayo.
Samtang nagapakadto ang mga kaaway kay Elisha, nagpangamuyo siya, “ Ginoo Ginoo , bulaga
Nagsiling dayon si Elisha sa ila, “Indi ini amo ang dalan kag indi ini ang banwa sang Dotan sang Dotan . Sunod kamo sa akon kay dal-on ko kamo sa tawo nga inyo ginapangita.” Kag gindala sila ni Elisha sa Samaria.
Gani makadto kita sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan nga sa diin may madamo nga kahoy. Mahimo kita didto sang lugar nga aton matipunan.” Nagsiling si Elisha, “Sige, lakat na kamo.”
Pagsulod nila sa siyudad, nagpangamuyo si Elisha, “ Ginoo Ginoo , buksi ang ila mga mata para makakita sila.” Ginbuksan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ila mga mata, kag nakita nila nga didto na sila sa Samaria.
Pagkakita sang hari sang Israel sa ila, ginpamangkot niya si Elisha, “Ano sa imo, sir?
Nagsabat si Elisha, “Indi sila pagpatya. Bisan gani ang mga bihag sa inaway wala ta ginapatay. Hatagi sila sang pagkaon kag tubig para makakaon sila kag makainom, kag pagkatapos, pabalika sila sa ila hari.”
Gani nagpapunsyon ang hari para sa ila, kag pagkatapos ginpapuli niya sila sa ila hari. Kag wala na magsalakay ang mga Arameanhon sa duta sang Israel.
Pero sang ulihi gintipon ni Haring Ben Hadad sang Aram ang iya bilog nga mga soldado kag ginpalibutan ang Samaria.
Tungod sini, puwerte ang gutom sa siyudad, hasta nga nagmalahal ang balaklon nagmalahal ang balaklon . Ang bili sang ulo sang donkey 80 ka bilog nga pilak, kag ang bili sang isa ka litse nga iti sang pating
Isa ka tion, samtang nagaagi ang hari sang Israel sa ibabaw sang pader, may isa ka babayi nga nagsinggit sa iya, “Mahal nga Hari, buligi ako!”
Nagsabat ang hari, “Kon indi magbulig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo ano ang akon mahimo? Wala na ako sing trigo ukon ilimnon nga mahatag sa imo.”
Nagpamangkot dayon ang hari, “Ano bala ang problema mo?” Nagsabat ang babayi, “Ini nga babayi nagsiling sa akon nga kaunon namon ang akon bata sa isa ka adlaw kag sa sunod nga adlaw, ang iya naman nga bata.
Gani ginluto namon ang akon bata kag ginkaon. Pagkasunod nga adlaw, ginsilingan ko siya nga ang iya naman bata ang amon kaunon, pero gintago niya ini.”
Pero nagsiling ang isa sa ila, “Kon puwede, sir, mag-upod ka na lang sa amon.” Nagsabat siya, “O, sige.”
Pagkabati sang hari sa ginsiling sang babayi, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa puwerte nga kasubo sa puwerte nga kasubo . Kag samtang nagalakat siya sa ibabaw sang pader, nakita sang mga tawo nga nagasuksok siya sang sako nga nasampawan sang iya bayo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo .
Nagsiling siya, “Kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios sing puwerte gid kon indi ko mapautdan sang ulo si Elisha nga anak ni Shafat subong nga adlaw!”
Karon, nagapungko si Elisha sa iya balay nga nagapakig-estorya sa mga manugdumala sang Israel sang Israel . Nagsugo ang hari sang isa ka tawo nga mag-una sa iya didto kay Elisha didto kay Elisha . Pero antes mag-abot ang ginsugo sang hari, nagsiling si Elisha sa mga manugdumala, “Ang aton hari nga aton hari nga manugpatay nagpasugo sang tawo sa pag-utod sang akon ulo. Kon mag-abot na gani ang tawo siraduhi ninyo ang puwertahan kag indi siya pagpasudla. Ang hari mismo nga hari mismo nga iya agalon nagasunod sa iya.”
Samtang nagahambal pa si Elisha sa ila, nag-abot ang ginsugo sang hari. Kag nagsiling siya, “Ini nga katalagman nga nag-abot halin mismo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ti ngaa mahulat pa ako nga magbulig siya?”
Nagkadto sila sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagpangtapas sang mga kahoy.
Samtang ang isa sa ila nagatapas, nahulog ang ulo sang iya wasay sa tubig, gani nagsinggit siya, “Sir, ginhulam ko lang ato!”
Nagpamangkot si Elisha, “Diin dampi nahulog?” Gintudlo sang tawo kon diin dampi nahulog, kag dayon nag-utod si Elisha sang lipak kag ginhaboy ini didto. Kag naglutaw ang ulo sang wasay.
Nagsiling si Elisha, “Kuhaa na.” Kag ginkuha sang tawo.
Karon, nagpakig-away ang hari sang Aram sa Israel. Ginkonsulta niya ang iya mga opisyal kon diin sila nga mga lugar makampo.
Ginsilingan ni Elisha, nga Elisha, nga alagad sang Dios, ang hari sang Israel, “Indi kamo makaagi sa sina nga lugar kay ara dira nagabantay ang mga Arameanhon.”
Nagsabat si Elisha, “Pamatii ining ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Sa amo sini nga oras buwas, ang bili sang tatlo ka gantang nga harina, isa lang ka bilog nga pilak, kag amo man ang bili sang anom ka gantang nga barley sa balaligyaan
Gani nagbalik sila sa siyudad sang Samaria sang Samaria kag gintawag nila ang mga guwardya sang puwertahan sang siyudad kag ginsilingan, “Nagkadto kami sa kampo sang mga Arameanhon kag wala gid sing tawo didto, luwas lang sa mga kabayo kag mga donkey nga napanghigot. Kag ara pa ang mga pagkabutang sa mga tolda.”
Ginsinggit sang mga guwardya ang ini nga balita sa mga tawo hasta nga nakaabot ini sa palasyo sang hari.
Bisan madulom pa, nagbangon ang hari kag nagsiling sa iya mga opisyal, “Sugiran ko kamo kon ano ang ginaplano sang mga Arameanhon. Nahibaluan nila nga ginagutom kita, gani ginbayaan nila ang ila kampo kag nagpanago sa mga kabukiran. Kay nagahunahuna sila nga sigurado gid nga magguwa kita, kag dayon dakpon nila kita kag agawon ang siyudad.”
Nagsabat ang isa sang iya mga opisyal, “May lima pa kita ka kabayo nga nabilin, ngaa indi kita magpasugo sang pila ka tawo sa pag-usisa kon ano gid bala ang natabo? Bahala na kon patyon sila, total kon diri sila, mapatay man gihapon sila upod sa aton.”
Gani nagpreparar sila sang duha ka karwahe nga may mga kabayo, kag nagpadala ang hari sang mga tawo sa paghibalo kon ano gid ang natabo sa mga soldado sang Aram.
Nakaabot sila hasta sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, kag nakita nila sa mga dalan ang mga bayo kag mga kagamitan nga ginpanghaboy sang mga Arameanhon sa ila nga dali-dali nga pagpalagyo. Nagbalik ang mga ginsugo kag ginbalita nila ini sa hari.
Dayon nagguwa ang mga tawo sa siyudad sa siyudad kag ginpanguha nila ang mga nagkalabilin sa kampo sang mga Arameanhon. Kag natabo matuod ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ang bili sang tatlo ka gantang nga harina isa lang ka bilog nga pilak, kag amo man ang bili sang anom ka gantang nga barley.
Ang ginbutang sang hari nga magkontrolar sa pagdinaguso sang mga tawo nga magkontrolar sa pagdinaguso sang mga tawo sa puwertahan sang siyudad sang siyudad amo ang opisyal nga iya ginasaligan. Pero natumba siya kag natumba siya kag gintapak-tapak sang mga tawo didto sa puwertahan, kag napatay siya suno sa ginsiling ni Elisha nga ni Elisha nga alagad sang Dios sang nagkadto ang hari kay Elisha.
Natabo man ang ginsiling sang alagad sang Dios sa hari, “Sa amo sini nga oras buwas, ang bili sang tatlo ka gantang nga harina, isa lang ka bilog nga pilak, kag amo man ang bili sang anom ka gantang nga barley sa balaligyaan
Nagsabat sadto ang opisyal sang hari, sang hari, “Bisan pa gani ginapaulan sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
Nagsiling ang opisyal nga ginasaligan sang hari kay Elisha, nga Elisha, nga alagad sang Dios, “Bisan pa gani ginapaulan sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
Kag natabo matuod ini sa opisyal, kay gintapak-tapak siya sang mga tawo nga nagdinaguso nga nagdinaguso sa puwertahan sang siyudad, sang siyudad, kag napatay siya.
Karon, may apat ka tawo nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit
Kon magsulod kita sa siyudad mapatay kita didto sa gutom, kag kon magpungko lang kita diri, mapatay man kita gihapon. Gani makadto na lang kita sa kampo sang mga Arameanhon kag magsurender. Kon indi nila kita pag-anhon, maayo, pero kon patyon nila kita, bahala na.”
Gani pagkagab-i, nagkadto sila sa kampo sang mga Arameanhon. Pero pag-abot nila, wala sing tawo didto.
Kay ginpabati sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga soldado sang Aram sang ginahod sang mga karwahe, mga kabayo, kag sang madamo nga soldado, gani naghunahuna ang mga Arameanhon nga ginsuhulan sang hari sang Israel ang hari sang mga Hithanon kag ang hari sang mga Egyptohanon sa pagsalakay sa ila.
Amo gani nga nagpalagyo sila sang gab-i kag ginpamayaan nila ang ila mga tolda, mga kabayo, kag mga donkey. Ginbayaan lang nila ang ila kampo kag nagpalalagyo sila para maluwas ang ila kaugalingon.
Pag-abot sa kampo sang mga tawo nga may balatian sa panit, gin-isa-isa nila sulod ang mga tolda. Sige ang ila kaon kag inom, kag panguha sang mga pilak, mga bulawan kag mga bayo. Kag ginpanago nila ini.
Sang ulihi naghambalanay sila, “Indi ini husto. Dapat kuntani ginbalita ta subong nga adlaw nga nagpalalagyo na ang mga kaaway, pero gintago-tago ta lang ini. Kon pabuwasan pa naton ang pagsugid sini, silutan gid kita. Dali, malakat kita subong kag ibalita naton ini sa palasyo sang hari.”
Ginhambalan sadto ni Elisha ang babayi nga ang iya bata ginbuhi niya, “Dal-a ang imo pamilya kag mag-estar kamo sa iban nga lugar, kay nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga may gutom nga mag-abot sa Israel sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.”
Nagsabat si Elisha, “Pauli ka kag silingon mo siya nga sigurado gid nga magaayo siya, pero nagpahayag ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon nga mapatay gid siya.”
Gintulok niya dayon si Hazael nga wala sing pulupamisok hasta nga nahuya ini. Kag naghibi si Elisha.
Ginpamangkot siya ni Hazael, “Sir, ngaa nagahibi ka?” Nagsabat siya, “Tungod nahibaluan ko ang malain nga pagahimuon mo sa mga Israelinhon. Pagasunugon mo ang ila napaderan nga mga banwa, pamatyon mo ang ila mga pamatan-on sa inaway, dugmukon mo ang ila magagmay nga mga bata, kag pagaririan mo ang tiyan sang ila nagabulusong nga mga babayi.”
Nagsabat si Hazael, “Sir, paano ko ina mahimo? Wala ako sing ikasarang sa paghimo sina.”
Nagbalik si Hazael sa iya agalon nga si Ben Hadad, nga si Ben Hadad, kag ginpamangkot siya ni Ben Hadad, “Ti, ano ang ginsiling ni Elisha sa imo?” Nagsabat si Hazael, “Nagsiling siya sa akon nga sigurado gid nga magaayo ka.”
Pero pagkasunod nga adlaw, nagkuha si Hazael sang madamol nga tela kag gintusmog ini sa tubig kag ginhaklap sa nawong sang hari hasta nga napatay ini. Kag si Hazael ang nagbulos bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Jehoram nga anak ni Jehoshafat sang ikalima nga tuig sang paghari ni Joram, nga anak ni Ahab, sa Israel.
Nagaedad si Jehoram sing 32 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang walo ka tuig.
Nagsunod siya sa pagginawi sang mga hari sang Israel, pareho sa ginhimo sang panimalay ni Ahab, kay ang iya napangasawa anak ni Ahab. Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero tungod kay David, wala paglaglaga sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Juda, kay nagpromisa siya kay David nga hasta san-o indi madulaan si David sang kaliwat nga magahari.
Gani ginsunod sang babayi ang ginsiling sa iya sang alagad sang Dios. Naglakat siya kag ang iya pamilya kag nag-estar sa duta sang mga Filistinhon sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.
Sang panahon sang paghari ni Jehoram, nagrebelde ang Edom sa Juda, kag nagpili sila sang ila kaugalingon nga hari.
Gani nagkadto si Jehoram sa Zair dala ang tanan niya nga mga karwahe. Ginlibutan siya kag ang mga kumander sang iya mga karwahe sang mga Edomnon. Pero pagkagab-i, ginsalakay nila ang mga Edomnon, kag nakalusot sila kag nakapalagyo. Dayon nagpalauli ang iya mga soldado.
Hasta subong nagarebelde pa ang Edom sa Juda. Sa amo man sadto nga tion, nagrebelde man ang Libna.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehoram, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Sang napatay si Jehoram, ginlubong siya upod sa iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David. Kag si Ahazia nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Ahazia nga anak ni Jehoram sang ikadose nga tuig sang paghari ni Joram, nga anak ni Ahab, sa Israel.
Nagaedad si Ahazia sang 22 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang isa ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Atalia nga apo ni Haring Omri sang Israel.
Nagsunod siya sa pagginawi sang pamilya ni Ahab. Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang ginhimo sang pamilya ni Ahab, kay nagpangasawa siya sa isa sang mga miyembro sang pamilya ni Ahab.
Pagkatapos sang pito ka tuig, nagbalik siya sa Israel kag nagkadto siya sa hari sa pagpakitluoy nga buligan siya nga mabalik sa iya ang iya balay kag duta.
Samtang nagapasulod siya, Samtang nagapasulod siya, nagapakighambal ang hari kay Gehazi nga suluguon ni Elisha. Nagsiling ang hari, “Sugiri ako sang tanan nga makatilingala nga mga butang nga ginhimo ni Elisha.”
Kag samtang nagasugid si Gehazi sa hari kon paano ginbuhi ni Elisha ang bata nga napatay, nagpalapit sa hari ang iloy sang bata kag nagpakitluoy nga buligan siya nga mabalik sa iya ang iya balay kag duta. Nagsiling si Gehazi, “Mahal nga Hari, amo ini ang babayi kag amo ini ang iya bata nga ginbuhi ni Elisha.”
Ginpamangkot sang hari ang babayi parte sadto, kag ginsugiran siya sang babayi. Gani nagpatawag ang hari sang isa ka opisyal sa pagbulig sa babayi. Nagsiling siya sa opisyal, “Buligi siya nga mabalik sa iya ang tanan nga iya ginapanag-iyahan, pati ang tanan nga kita sang iya uma halin sang paghalin niya hasta sang pagbalik niya.”
Karon, nagkadto si Elisha sa Damascus, ang kapital sang Aram, ang kapital sang Aram, nga sa diin nagamasakit si Haring Ben Hadad sang Aram.
nagsiling siya kay Hazael, “Magdala ka sang regalo kag sugataa ang alagad sang Dios. Kag silinga siya nga pamangkuton niya ang Ginoo Ginoo kon bala magaayo pa ako sa akon sakit.”
Gani ginpakargahan ni Hazael ang 40 ka camel sang pinakamaayo nga mga produkto sang Damascus kag gindala ini kay Elisha bilang regalo. Pag-abot niya kay Elisha, nagsiling siya, “Ginsugo ako sang imo alagad
Ginpatawag ni Elisha ang isa ka miyembro sang grupo sang mga propeta kag ginsilingan, “Magpreparar ka sa pagkadto sa Ramot Gilead, kag dal-a ining tibod sang lana.
Kon parte kay Jezebel, pagakaunon siya sang mga ido didto sa duta sang Jezreel, kag wala sing may maglubong sa iya.’ ” Nagguwa dayon ang propeta kag nagdalagan.
Pagbalik ni Jehu sa iya mga kaupod nga mga opisyal, ang isa sa ila nagpamangkot sa iya, “Ti, kamusta? Ngaa nagkadto sa imo atong buang-buang nga tawo?” Nagsabat si Jehu, “Nahibaluan naman ninyo kon sin-o siya kag kon ano ang iya mga ginahambal.”
Nagsabat sila, “Indi ka magbutig sa amon. Sugiri kami kon ano gid ang iya ginsiling kon ano gid ang iya ginsiling .” Nagsiling si Jehu, “Ginsilingan niya ako parte sa ginhambal sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginpili niya ako nga hari sang Israel.”
Ginhukas gilayon sang mga opisyal ang ila mga pangtabon nga panapton kag ginhumlad sa hagdanan nga ginatindugan ni Jehu. Ginpatunog dayon nila ang budyong kag nagsinggit, “Si Jehu na ang hari!”
Nagplano dayon si Jehu nga anak ni Jehoshafat kag apo ni Nimshi kontra kay Joram. (Sini nga tion, ginadepensahan ni Joram kag sang mga taga-Israel ang Ramot Gilead kontra kay Haring Hazael sang Aram.
Pero napilasan si Joram sa pagpakig-away nila sa mga Arameanhon, gani nagpuli siya sa Jezreel sa pagpaayo sang iya mga pilas.) Nagsiling si Jehu sa iya kapareho nga mga opisyal, sa iya kapareho nga mga opisyal, “Kon gusto ninyo ako nga mangin hari, indi ninyo pagtuguti nga may makaguwa sa sini nga banwa. Kay basi may magkadto sa Jezreel kag magpanugid didto nga ginhimo ninyo ako nga hari nga ginhimo ninyo ako nga hari .”
Nagsakay dayon si Jehu sa iya karwahe kag nagkadto sa Jezreel, nga sa diin nagapahuway si Joram. Didto man si Haring Ahazia sang Juda, kay nagbisita siya kay Joram.
Karon, nakita sang guwardya sa tore sang Jezreel si Jehu nga nagapadulong kaupod ang iya mga soldado, gani nagsinggit siya, “May nagapadulong nga mga soldado!” Nagsabat si Joram, “Magpadala ka sang manugkabayo sa pagsugata sa ila sa paghibalo kon bala maayo ang ila tuyo sa pagkadto diri.”
Nagsinggit ang guwardya sa hari, sa hari, “Nakaabot na sa ila ang manugkabayo nga ginsugo mo, pero wala siya magbalik.”
Gani nagpadala naman ang hari sang isa ka manugkabayo. Pag-abot niya sa ila nagsiling siya, “Gusto sang hari nga mahibaluan kon bala maayo ang inyo tuyo sa pagkadto diri.” Nagsabat si Jehu, “Ano ang imo labot? Magsunod ka sa akon!”
Pag-abot mo didto, pangitaon mo dayon si Jehu nga anak ni Jehoshafat kag apo ni Nimshi. Kuhaon mo siya sa iya mga kaupod kag dal-on sa isa ka pribado nga kuwarto.
Nagsinggit liwat ang guwardya sa hari, sa hari, “Nakaabot na sa ila ang ikaduha nga manugkabayo nga ginsugo mo, pero wala man siya magbalik! Kag ang pangulo sang mga soldado pangulo sang mga soldado puwerte kadasig magpadalagan, pareho kay Jehu!”
Nagmando si Joram, “Ipreparar ninyo ang akon karwahe.” Kag sang napreparar na, naglakat si Haring Joram sang Israel kag si Haring Ahazia sang Juda sa pagsugata kay Jehu. Nagasakay sila sa ila tagsa ka karwahe. Kag nasugat-an nila si Jehu sa duta ni Nabot nga taga-Jezreel.
Pagkakita ni Joram kay Jehu, ginpamangkot niya siya, “Maayo bala ang imo tuyo sa pagkadto diri, Jehu?” Nagsabat si Jehu, “Paano nga mangin maayo kon may ara gihapon sang pagbinabaylan kag pagsimba sa mga dios-dios nga gin-umpisahan sang imo iloy nga si Jezebel?”
Ginpaliso dayon ni Joram ang iya kabayo kag ginpadalagan sing madasig. Nagsinggit siya kay Ahazia, “Nagtraidor si Jehu sa akon si Jehu sa akon !”
Ginkuha ni Jehu ang iya pana kag ginpana si Joram sa likod. Naglapos ang pana sa iya tagipusuon, kag nalup-og siya sa iya karwahe.
Nagsiling si Jehu kay Bidkar nga iya opisyal, “Kuhaa ang bangkay ni Joram, kag ihaboy sa uma ni Nabot nga taga-Jezreel. Nadumduman mo bala sang nagasakay kita nga duha sa likod dampi ni Ahab nga iya amay? Naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sang sini nga mensahi kontra sa iya:
‘Nakita ko kahapon ang imo pagpatay kay Nabot kag sa iya mga anak. Kag nagapromisa ako nga balusan ko gid ikaw diri mismo sa uma ni Nabot. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ Gani kuhaa siya kag ihaboy sa uma ni Nabot suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pagkakita ni Haring Ahazia sang Juda sa natabo, nagpalagyo siya pakadto sa Bet Hagan. Ginlagas siya ni Jehu nga nagasinggit, “Patya man ninyo siya!” Gani ginpana nila siya
Ginkuha sang iya mga alagad ang iya bangkay kag ginkarga sa karwahe pakadto sa Jerusalem. Ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Ahazia sang ikaonse nga tuig sang paghari ni Joram, nga anak ni Ahab, sa Israel.
Dayon kuhaon mo ang lana kag bubuan mo ang iya ulo kag magsiling, ‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Ginpili ko ikaw nga hari sang Israel.’ Dayon magdali-dali ka guwa kag magdalagan.”
Nagkadto dayon si Jehu sa Jezreel. Pagkahibalo sini ni Jezebel, nagpaguwapa siya kag nagtan-aw sa may bintana sang palasyo palasyo .
Pagsulod ni Jehu sa puwertahan sang palasyo, sang palasyo, nagsiling si Jezebel sa iya, “Ikaw nga pareho kay Zimri nga manugpatay sang iya agalon, maayo bala ang imo tuyo sa pagkadto diri?”
Nagtangla si Jehu sa bintana kag nagpamangkot, “May ara bala dira sa ibabaw nga dampig sa akon?” May duha dayon ukon tatlo ka opisyal nga nagtamwa sa iya sa bintana.
Nagsiling si Jehu sa ila, sa ila, “Ihulog ninyo siya!” Gani ginhulog nila si Jezebel. Kag ang iban niya nga dugo nag-asik sa pader kag sa mga kabayo, kag gintapak-tapak siya sang mga kabayo ni Jehu.
Nagsulod dayon si Jehu sa palasyo sa palasyo kag nagkaon kag nag-inom. Pagkatapos nagsiling siya, “Kuhaa ninyo inang ginpakamalaot nga babayi kag ilubong, kay anak man siya sang hari.”
Pero sang kuhaon na nila ang iya bangkay para ilubong, wala na sing may nabilin sa iya, luwas lang sa iya bagol, mga tiil, kag mga kamot.
Gani nagbalik sila kag ginsugiran si Jehu. Nagsiling si Jehu, “Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya alagad nga si Elias nga taga-Tishbe: ‘Sa isa ka duta sang Jezreel, kan-on sang mga ido ang unod ni Jezebel.
Ang iya lawas magalalapta didto pareho sa ipot kag wala sing may makakilala sa iya.’ ”
Gani nagkadto ang bataon nga propeta sa Ramot Gilead.
Pag-abot niya didto, nakita niya ang mga opisyal sang mga soldado nga nagapulungko. Nagsiling siya, “May mensahi ako para sa imo, sir.” Nagpamangkot si Jehu, “Para kay sin-o sa amon?” Nagsabat ang tawo, “Para sa imo, sir.”
Nagtindog dayon si Jehu kag nagsulod sa balay. Ginbubuan siya dayon sang propeta sang lana sa ulo, kag ginsilingan, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: ‘Ginpili ko ikaw nga hari sang akon katawhan nga Israel.
Laglagon mo ang panimalay ni Ahab nga imo agalon, para mabalusan ko si Jezebel sa iya nga pagpamatay sa akon mga alagad nga mga propeta kag sa iban ko pa nga mga alagad.
Malaglag ang bilog nga panimalay ni Ahab. Pamatyon ko ang tanan nga miyembro sang iya panimalay nga mga lalaki, ulipon man ukon indi.
Himuon ko sa panimalay ni Ahab ang akon ginhimo sa panimalay ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, kag sa panimalay ni Baasha nga anak ni Ahia.
May 70 ka kaliwat
Sa sini mareyalisar ninyo nga ang tanan nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa panimalay ni Ahab matuman gid. Gintuman sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginsiling paagi kay Elias nga iya alagad.”
Dayon ginpamatay ni Jehu ang tanan nga paryente ni Ahab sa Jezreel, pati ang iya mga opisyal, mga abyan, kag ang iya mga pari. Wala gid sing may nabilin sa ila nga buhi.
Naglakat dayon si Jehu pakadto sa Samaria. Kag samtang nagalakat siya sa dalan, sa lugar nga ginatawag Tilipunan sang mga Manugbantay sang Karnero,
nakita niya ang mga paryente ni Haring Ahazia sang Juda. Nagpamangkot siya, “Sin-o kamo?” Nagsabat sila, “Mga paryente kami ni Ahazia kag naglakat kami para magpangamusta sa mga kaliwat ni Haring Ahab Ahab kag ni Rayna Jezebel Jezebel .”
Nagsugo dayon si Jehu sa iya mga tinawo, sa iya mga tinawo, “Dal-a sila nga buhi.” Gani gindala nila sila nga buhi sa isa ka bubon sa Bet Eked, kag ginpamatay nila sila—42 sila tanan. Wala gid sing may ginbilin nga buhi si Jehu sa ila.
Paghalin ni Jehu didto, nakita niya si Jehonadab nga anak ni Recab nga nagapadulong sa pagsugata sa iya. Ginkumusta siya ni Jehu kag ginpamangkot, “Dampig ka bala sa akon, subong nga ako dampig sa imo?” Nagsabat si Jehonadab, “Huo.” Nagsiling dayon si Jehu, “Kon amo, idaho sa akon ang imo kamot.” Gindaho ni Jehonadab ang iya kamot kag ginpasaka siya ni Jehu sa iya karwahe.
Nagsiling si Jehu, “Upod ka sa akon para makita mo ang akon katutom sa Ginoo Ginoo .” Gani nagsakay si Jehonadab upod sa iya.
Pag-abot ni Jehu sa Samaria ginpamatay niya ang tanan nga nabilin sa pamilya ni Ahab, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Elias.
Gintipon dayon ni Jehu ang tanan nga tawo kag ginsilingan, “Indi masyado matutom si Ahab sa iya nga pag-alagad kay Baal. Pero ako ya, ipakita ko nga matutom gid ako sa pag-alagad sa iya.
Gani pakadtua ninyo diri sa akon ang tanan nga propeta kag pari ni Baal, kag ang tanan nga nagaalagad sa iya. Kinahanglan nga ara gid sila tanan, kay magahalad ako sang dako nga halad para kay Baal. Ang indi magkadto ipapatay ko.” Pero nagapakuno-kuno lang si Jehu para mapamatay niya ang mga nagaalagad kay Baal.
“Kamo ang gintugyanan sa mga kaliwat ni Haring Ahab, kag sa mga karwahe, sa mga kabayo, sa napaderan nga siyudad, kag sa mga armas.
Nagsiling si Jehu, “Maghiwat kita sang pinasahi nga pagtilipon para sa kadungganan ni Baal.” Gani ginpahibalo ini sa mga tawo.
Ginpatawag ni Jehu sa bilog nga Israel ang tanan nga nagaalagad kay Baal, kag nagkadto gid ang kada isa sa ila. Nagsulod sila tanan sa templo ni Baal, kag napuno ang templo.
Ginhambalan ni Jehu ang nagaatipan sang mga bayo nga pangsimba, “Ipasuksok ang mga bayo sa tanan nga nagaalagad kay Baal.” Gani gintuman niya ini.
Dayon nagsulod si Jehu kag si Jehonadab nga anak ni Recab sa templo ni Baal. Nagsiling si Jehu sa mga nagaalagad kay Baal, “Siguraduha ninyo nga wala sing may nakaimpon sa inyo nga mga tawo nga nagaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dapat kamo lang nga nagaalagad kay Baal ang ari diri.”
Kag didto sa sulod sang templo, sang templo, naghalad sila sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang iban pa nga mga halad. Nagbutang na nga daan si Jehu sang 80 ka tawo sa guwa sang templo sang templo kag nagsiling sa ila, “Gintugyan ko sila sa inyo para patyon ninyo. Ang bisan sin-o sa inyo nga magpabaya nga makapalagyo ang bisan isa sa ila, patyon ko.”
Pagkatapos ni Jehu halad sang mga halad nga ginasunog, ginmanduan niya ang mga guwardya kag mga opisyal, “Sulod kamo kag pamatya ninyo sila! Indi ninyo pagpabay-i nga may makapalagyo sa ila!” Gani ginpamatay nila sila paagi sa espada kag ginpanghaboy ang ila mga bangkay sa guwa. Dayon nagsulod sila sa pinakasulod nga parte sang templo ni Baal
kag ginkuha nila didto ang handumanan nga bato kag gindala sa guwa, kag ginsunog.
Pagkatapos nga naguba nila ang handumanan nga bato ni Baal, ginwasak nila ang templo ni Baal, kag ginhimo ini sang mga tawo nga palamus-unan hasta subong.
Sa sini nga paagi, gindula ni Jehu ang pagsimba kay Baal sa Israel.
Pero ginsunod gihapon niya ang mga sala ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel. Ini amo ang pagsimba sa bulawan nga mga baka sa Betel kag sa Dan.
Gani pagkabaton ninyo sini nga sulat, magpili kamo sang bagay gid nga mangin hari halin sa mga kaliwat ni Haring Ahab, kag magpakig-away kamo sa amon sa pagdepensa sa pamilya ni Haring Ahab.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jehu, “Maayo ang imo ginhimo sa akon panulok; ginsunod mo ang gusto ko nga matabo sa panimalay ni Ahab. Tungod sa imo ginhimo, paharion ko ang imo mga kaliwat hasta sa ikaapat nga henerasyon.”
Pero wala magtuman si Jehu sa kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, sa bug-os niya nga tagipusuon. Sa baylo, ginsunod niya ang mga sala ni Jeroboam, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Sa sina nga tion, amat-amat nga ginapagamay sang Ginoo Ginoo ang teritoryo sang Israel. Naagaw ni Haring Haring Hazael ang mga lugar sang Israel
sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan: ang bilog nga Gilead, ang Bashan, kag ang mga lugar sa north sang banwa sang Aroer nga malapit sa Arnon nga ililigan sang tubig. Ini nga mga lugar amo ang ginaestaran anay sang tribo ni Gad, ni Reuben, kag ni Manase.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehu, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang tanan niya nga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sang napatay si Jehu, ginlubong siya sa Samaria. Kag si Jehoahaz nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Naghari si Jehu sa Israel didto sa Samaria sa sulod sang 28 ka tuig.
Pero hinadlukan gid sila kag nagsiling, “Kon ang duha gani ka hari wala makadaog sa iya, kita pa ayhan?”
Gani ang administrador sang palasyo, ang gobernador sang siyudad, ang mga manugdumala, kag ang mga manug-atipan sang mga kaliwat ni Haring Ahab sang mga kaliwat ni Haring Ahab nagsulat kay Jehu. Amo ini ang ila nga sulat: “Mga alagad mo kami, kag himuon namon ang tanan nga isugo mo. Indi kami magpili sang lain nga hari; himua ang maayo para sa imo.”
Karon, ang 70 ka kaliwat ni Haring Ahab ginaatipan sang mga dungganon nga mga tawo sang siyudad sang Samaria halin sang bata pa sila.
Pag-abot sang sulat ni Jehu, ni Jehu, ginkuha sang sini nga mga tawo ang 70 ka kaliwat sang hari kag ginpatay. Dayon ginsulod nila ang mga ulo sini sa mga basket kag ginpadala kay Jehu sa Jezreel.
Pag-abot sang nagdala sini, ginsugiran niya si Jehu, “Ginpadala nila ang mga ulo sang mga kaliwat sang hari.” Nagmando dayon si Jehu, “Tumpuka ini sa duha ka tumpok dira sa puwertahan sang banwa, kag pabay-i lang dira hasta sa aga.”
Pagkaaga, nagguwa si Jehu kag nagtindog sa atubangan sang mga tawo kag nagsiling, “Wala kamo sing sala. Ako ang nagplano kontra sa akon agalon kag nagpatay sa iya. Pero sin-o ang nagpatay sini sa ila tanan?
Dayon ginhatagan ni Jehoyada ang mga kumander sang mga bangkaw kag mga taming nga iya sadto ni Haring David, nga gintago didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagplastar dayon ang mga armado nga mga guwardya sa palibot sang templo kag sang halaran, sa pagprotektar sa hari.
Dayon ginpaguwa ni Jehoyada si Joash nga Joash nga anak sang hari kag ginkoronahan. Ginhatagan niya siya sang kopya sang mga pagsulundan parte sa pagdumala sang hari, parte sa pagdumala sang hari, kag ginproklamar niya siya nga hari. Ginhaplasan niya siya sang lana bilang pagkilala sa iya nga hari bilang pagkilala sa iya nga hari , kag nagpinalakpak dayon ang mga tawo kag nagsininggit, “Mabuhay ang hari!”
Sang pagkabati ni Atalia sang ginahod sang mga guwardya kag sang mga tawo, nagkadto siya sa ila didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag nakita niya didto ang bag-o nga bag-o nga hari nga nagatindog malapit sa haligi, suno sa kinabatasan sa tion sang pagproklamar sa hari sa tion sang pagproklamar sa hari . Ara sa tupad sang hari ang mga kumander kag ang mga manugtrumpeta, kag ang tanan nga tawo didto nagahinugyaw kag nagapatunog sang mga trumpeta. Sang makita ini tanan ni Atalia, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kalain sang iya buot, sa kalain sang iya buot, kag nagsinggit, “Mga traidor! Mga traidor!”
Ginmanduan ni Jehoyada ang mga kumander sang mga soldado, “Dal-a ninyo sa guwa si Atalia. Indi ninyo siya pagpatya diri sa sulod sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag patya ninyo ang bisan sin-o nga gusto magluwas sa iya.”
Gani gindakop nila siya kag gindala sa guwa sang puwertahan nga ginaagyan sang mga kabayo nga nagakadto sa palasyo sang hari, kag didto ginpatay nila siya.
Ginpahimo ni Jehoyada ang hari kag ang mga tawo sang kasugtanan sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga mangin katawhan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpahimo man niya sang kasugtanan ang hari kag ang mga tawo.
Dayon nagbutang si Jehoyada sang mga guwardya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag gin-upod niya ang mga kumander, ang mga badigard sang hari, ang mga guwardya sang palasyo, kag ang tanan nga tawo, kag ila gindul-ong ang hari sa palasyo halin sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Didto sila nag-agi sa puwertahan sang mga guwardya. Dayon nagpungko ang hari sa iya trono.
Pero ginluwas ni Jehosheba ang anak ni Haring Haring Ahazia nga si Joash sang palatyon na siya kag ang iban pa nga mga anak sang hari. Ining si Jehosheba utod ni Ahazia kag anak nga babayi ni Haring Jehoram. Gintago niya si Joash kag ang iya yaya sa isa ka kuwarto sa templo, sa templo, gani wala siya napatay.
Nagkinalipay ang mga tawo, kag malinong na ang siyudad sa tapos ginpatay si Atalia sa palasyo sang hari.
Nagaedad si Joash sang pito ka tuig sang naghari siya.
Sa sulod sang anom ka tuig, didto nagpanago sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo si Joash kag ang iya yaya samtang si Atalia ang nagagahom bilang rayna sa Juda.
Sang ikapito nga tuig, ginpatawag sang pari nga si sang pari nga si Jehoyada ang mga kumander sang ginatos nga mga soldado nga mga badigard sang hari kag mga guwardya sang palasyo sa pagkadto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Naghimo siya sang kasugtanan sa ila kag ginpasumpa niya sila didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pagkatapos ginpakita niya sa ila ang anak sang hari.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “ Grupoha ninyo Grupoha ninyo sa tatlo ang inyo kaugalingon ang inyo kaugalingon . Ang isa ka grupo, nga nagaguwardya kon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, magguwardya sa palasyo sang hari.
Ang isa pa ka grupo magguwardya sa Puwertahan sang Sur. Kag ang isa pa gid ka grupo magguwardya sa puwertahan sang palasyo sa pagbulig sa iban pa nga mga guwardya didto.
Ang duha ka grupo nga wala nagaguwardya kon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway amo ang magguwardya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo para protektaran ang hari.
Dapat guwardyahan ninyo sing maayo ang hari, nga preparado ang inyo mga armas, kag sundan ninyo siya bisan diin siya magkadto. Patyon ninyo ang bisan sin-o nga magpalapit sa inyo.”
Ginhimo sang mga kumander ang ginsugo ni Jehoyada nga pari. Gintipon nila ang ila mga tinawo nga nagaguwardya kon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, pati man ang wala nagaguwardya sa sina nga adlaw, kag gindala nila kay Jehoyada.
Nangin hari sang Juda sang Juda si Joash sang ikapito nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehu sa Israel sa Israel . Sa Jerusalem nag-estar si Joash, kag nag-estar si Joash, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Zibia nga taga-Beersheba.
Kag kon madamo na ang kuwarta sa kahon, nagakadto ang sekretaryo sang hari kag ang pangulo nga pari kag ginaisip nila ini, kag pagkatapos ginasulod sa mga bag.
Ang kuwarta nga ginhatag sa templo wala gin-gamit sa pagpahimo sang pilak nga mga kupa, mga pang-utod sa pabilo, mga yahong, mga trumpeta, ukon sang bisan ano nga gamit nga bulawan ukon pilak para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kundi ginbayad ini sa mga nagaulobra sa templo kag sa mga materyales.
Wala na ginpangitaan sang lista sang mga gastos ang mga tawo nga nagadumala sa pagpakay-o kay masaligan sila.
Ang kuwarta nga ginhatag kaupod sang mga halad nga bayad sa sala kag sang mga halad sa pagpakatinlo wala ginsulod sa kahon didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay para lang ato sa mga pari.
Sadto nga tion, si Haring Hazael sang Aram
Gintipon ni Haring Joash ang tanan nga butang nga ginhalad sang iya mga katigulangan sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag pati man ang iya mga ginhalad. (Ang mga katigulangan ni Joash nga naghalad sadto nga mga butang amo sila ni Jehoshafat, Jehoram, kag Ahazia, nga mga hari sang Juda.) Ini tanan ginpadala ni Joash kay Hazael, pati ang tanan nga bulawan nga ara sa mga bodega sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang palasyo. Gani wala na magsalakay si Hazael sa Jerusalem.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Joash, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Matarong ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo samtang buhi siya, kay gintudluan siya ni Jehoyada nga pari.
Sang ulihi Sang ulihi nagrebelde kontra kay Haring Joash ang iya mga opisyal, kag ginpatay nila siya sa Bet Millo, sa dalan pakadto sa Silla.
Ang mga opisyal nga nagpatay sa iya amo sila ni Jozacar
Pero wala niya pag-ipaguba ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, gani padayon didto ang mga tawo sa paghalad sang mga halad kag sa pagsunog sang mga insenso.
Nagsiling si Joash sa mga pari, “Tipuna ninyo ang tanan nga kuwarta nga gindala sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad: ang kuwarta nga ginkolekta sa census, ang kuwarta nga bayad sa panaad, kag ang kuwarta nga halad nga kinabubut-on.
Kag gamita ninyo ini sa pagpakay-o sang templo.”
Pero hasta sang ika-23 nga tuig sang paghari ni Joash, wala gihapon makay-o sang mga pari ang templo.
Gani ginpatawag ni Haring Joash si Jehoyada kag ang iban pa nga mga pari kag ginpamangkot, “Ngaa wala pa ninyo ginpakay-o ang templo? Sugod subong indi na ninyo paggastuha ang kuwarta sa inyo kaugalingon nga mga kinahanglanon. Dapat gastuhon na ini sa pagpakay-o sang templo.”
Nagsugot ang mga pari kag Nagsugot ang mga pari kag nagsugot man man sila nga indi na sila ang magpangolekta sang kuwarta halin sa mga tawo kag indi na man sila ang magpakay-o sang templo.
Nagkuha si Jehoyada sang kahon kag ginbuhuan niya ang takop sini. Dayon ginbutang niya ini sa kilid sang halaran, sa tuo dampi kon magpasulod sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kon may maghatag gani sang kuwarta sa templo, ang mga pari nga nagabantay sa puwertahan amo ang nagasulod sini sa kahon.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Jehoahaz nga anak ni Jehu sang ika-23 nga tuig sang paghari ni Joash, nga anak ni Ahazia, sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Jehoahaz, kag nag-estar si Jehoahaz, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 17 ka tuig.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Jehoash nga anak ni Jehoahaz sang ika-37 nga tuig sang paghari ni Joash sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Jehoash, kag nag-estar si Jehoash, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 16 ka tuig.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Wala siya nagbiya sa mga sala ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Joash, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang tanan niya nga ginhimo, pati ang iya pagpakig-away kay Haring Amazia sang Juda, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sang napatay si Joash, ginlubong siya sa Samaria, didto sa ginlubngan sang mga hari sang Israel. Kag ang iya anak nga ang iya anak nga si Jeroboam II II amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Sang buhi pa si Haring Joash, Sang buhi pa si Haring Joash, nagmasakit si Elisha kag daw mapatay na gid siya. Nagkadto si Haring Jehoash sa iya kag naghibi sa iya. Nagsiling si Jehoash, “Amay ko, Amay ko! Ang mga karwahe kag mga manugkarwahe sang Israel!”
Nagsiling si Elisha, “Magkuha ka sang pana kag mga baslay.”
Dayon ginsilingan siya ni Elisha nga uyatan niya ang pana. Sang ginauyatan na niya ini, ginkaptan ni Elisha ang iya kamot
kag ginsilingan siya, “Abrihi ang bintana sa east.” Kag gin-abrihan niya ini. Dayon ginsilingan siya ni Elisha nga magpana siya. Kag sang nagpana siya, nagsiling si Elisha, “Ina nga baslay palatandaan nga padaugon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa Aram. Laglagon mo sing bug-os ang mga Arameanhon sa Afek.”
Ginsilingan liwat ni Elisha si Jehoash nga magkuha sang mga baslay. Kag sang nagkuha siya, nagsiling si Elisha, “Panaa ang duta.” Kag ginpana niya ang duta sang tatlo ka beses, kag dayon nag-untat siya.
Naakig si Elisha sa iya kag nagsiling, “Kuntani lima ukon anom ka beses mo ini ginpana para malaglag mo sing bug-os ang mga Arameanhon. Pero karon, mapierdi mo lang sila sing tatlo ka beses.”
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginsunod niya ang mga sala ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel. Kag wala gid siya nagbiya sa sini nga mga sala.
Kada tuig may grupo sang mga Moabnon nga nagasalakay sa Israel.
Isa sina ka tion, may mga Israelinhon nga magalubong kuntani sang patay. Pero sang makakita sila sang grupo sang mga Moabnon nga nagasalakay, gindali-dali nila sulod ang bangkay sa kuweba nga ginlubngan ni Elisha kag nagpalagyo kag nagpalagyo . Pagtandog sang bangkay sa mga tul-an ni Elisha, nabuhi ang patay kag nagtindog.
Ginpabudlayan ni Haring Hazael sang Aram ang Israel sa bilog nga panahon sang paghari ni Jehoahaz.
Pero ginkaluoyan kag ginkabalak-an sila sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa iya kasugtanan kay Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob. Hasta subong wala niya sila paglaglaga ukon pagpahalina sa ila lugar palayo sa ila lugar palayo sa iya presensya.
Napatay si Haring Hazael sang Aram, kag si Ben Hadad nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Napierdi ni Joash ang Aram sing tatlo ka beses, kag nabawi niya kay Ben Hadad ang mga banwa nga naagaw sang amay ni Ben Hadad nga si Hazael sang pagpakig-away niya sa amay ni Jehoash nga si Jehoahaz.
Gani nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel. Kag sa malawig nga tion ginpasakop niya sila kay Haring Hazael sang Aram kag sa iya anak nga si Ben Hadad.
Nagpangamuyo si Jehoahaz sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginpamatian siya sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay nakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang puwerte nga pagpamigos sang hari sang Aram sa Israel.
Ginhatagan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang pangulo nga naghilway sa ila sa mga taga-Aram. Gani nagpuyo liwat sing malinong ang mga Israelinhon pareho sang una.
Pero wala sila magbiya sa pagsunod sa mga sala sang panimalay ni Jeroboam, nga nangin kabangdanan sang ila pagpakasala. Wala man nila paggub-a ang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera sa Samaria.
Sang ulihi ang nabilin kay Jehoahaz amo na lang ang 50 ka manugkabayo, 10 ka karwahe, kag 10,000 ka soldado, kay ang iban ginpamatay sang hari sang Aram, nga daw sa yab-ok nga gintasak-tasak.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehoahaz, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang tanan niya nga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sang napatay si Jehoahaz, ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Samaria. Kag si Joash nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Amazia nga anak ni Joash sang ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoash, nga anak ni Jehoahaz, sa Israel.
Amazia, Amazia, matuod nga napierdi mo ang Edom kag ginapabugal mo ina. Magkontento ka na lang sa imo pagdaog kag magpabilin sa imo lugar. Ngaa gusto mo gid ang gamo nga magadala lang sang kalaglagan sa imo kag sa Juda?”
Pero wala nagpamati si Amazia, gani ginsalakay siya ni Haring Jehoash kag sang iya mga soldado kag sang iya mga soldado . Nag-away sila sa Bet Shemesh nga sakop sang Juda.
Napierdi ang Juda sa Israel, kag ang tagsa ka soldado sang Juda nagpalagyo puli.
Nadakpan ni Haring Jehoash si Haring Amazia didto sa Bet Shemesh. Dayon nagkadto si Jehoash sa Jerusalem kag gin-guba niya ang mga pader sini halin sa Puwertahan sang Efraim pakadto sa Pamusod nga Puwertahan, nga mga 600 feet ang kalabaon.
Ginpanguha niya ang tanan nga bulawan, pilak, kag kagamitan nga iya nakita sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa bodega sang palasyo sang hari. Nagdala man siya sang mga bihag sa iya nga pagbalik sa Samaria.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehoash, kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang iban pa niya nga ginhimo, pati ang iya pagpakig-away kay Haring Amazia sang Juda, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sang napatay si Jehoash, ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang mga hari sang Israel sa Samaria. Kag ang iya anak nga si Jeroboam II II amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagkabuhi pa si Haring Amazia sang Juda sang 15 ka tuig sa tapos nga mapatay si Haring Jehoash sang Israel.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Amazia nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
May mga tawo sadto nga nagplano sa pagpatay kay Amazia sa Jerusalem, gani nagpalagyo siya sa Lakish. Pero ginpasundan nila siya sa Lakish, kag ginpatay siya didto.
Nagaedad si Amazia sing 25 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 29 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Jehoadin nga taga-Jerusalem.
Ang iya bangkay ginkarga sa kabayo kag gindala pabalik sa Jerusalem kag ginlubong sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David.
Ang ginbulos sang katawhan sang Juda kay Amazia bilang hari amo ang iya anak nga si Azaria
Siya ang nagbawi sang Elat kag nagpatindog liwat sini sa tapos mapatay ang iya amay nga si Amazia.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Jeroboam II II nga anak ni Jehoash sang ika-15 nga tuig sang paghari ni Amazia, nga anak ni Joash, sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Jeroboam II, kag nag-estar si Jeroboam II, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 41 ka tuig.
Siya ang nagbawi sang mga lugar nga iya sadto sang Israel, halin sa Lebo Hamat pakadto sa Patay nga Dagat.
Ginbuot sang Ginoo nga matabo ini Ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga matabo ini kay nakita niya ang puwerte nga pag-antos sang mga Israelinhon, ulipon man ukon indi. Wala gid sing may makabulig sa ila.
Kag tungod nga wala nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga dulaon niya ang Israel sa kalibutan, ginluwas niya sila paagi kay Jeroboam II, II, nga anak ni Joash.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jeroboam II II , kag ang iya bantog nga mga binuhatan kag ang iban pa niya nga ginhimo, pati ang iya pagbawi sa Damascus kag Hamat nga parte sadto sang Juda,
Sang napatay si Jeroboam II II , ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang mga hari sang Israel. Kag si Zacarias nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Amazia sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero indi gid pareho sa ginhimo ni David nga iya katigulangan. Ginsunod niya ang iya amay nga si Joash.
Wala man niya ginpaguba ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, gani padayon didto ang mga tawo sa paghalad sang mga halad kag sa pagsunog sang mga insenso.
Sang mabakod na ang paghari ni Amazia, ginpapatay niya ang mga opisyal nga nagpatay sa iya amay nga hari.
Pero wala niya ginpapatay ang ila mga anak, kay suno sa nasulat sa Libro sang Kasuguan ni Moises, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi dapat pagpatyon ang mga ginikanan tungod sa sala sang ila mga anak, kag ang mga anak indi man dapat pagpatyon tungod sa sala sang ila mga ginikanan. Patyon lang ang tawo tungod sa iya kaugalingon nga sala.”
Si Amazia amo ang nakapatay sang 10,000 ka Edomnon sa kapatagan nga ginatawag Asin. Naagaw man niya sa inaway ang Sela, kag gintawag niya ini nga Jokteel, kag amo gihapon ang ngalan sini hasta subong.
Isa ka adlaw, nagpadala si Amazia sang mga mensahero sa hari sang Israel nga si Jehoash nga anak ni Jehoahaz kag apo ni Jehu. Ginhangkat niya si Jehoash nga mag-inaway sila.
Pero ginsabat siya ni Haring Jehoash: “Didto sa Lebanon may tunukon nga tanom nga nagpadala sang sini nga mensahi sa kahoy nga sedro: ‘Ipaasawa ang imo anak nga babayi sa akon anak nga lalaki.’ Pero may nag-agi nga talunon nga sapat kag gintasak-tasak niya ang tunukon nga tanom.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Azaria
Karon, nagplano sing malain si Shalum nga anak ni Jabesh kontra kay Zacarias. Ginpatay niya si Zacarias sa atubangan sang mga tawo, kag ginbuslan bilang hari.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Zacarias nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Gani natuman ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jehu, “Ang imo mga kaliwat magahari sa Israel hasta sa ikaapat nga henerasyon.”
Nangin hari sang Israel si Shalum nga anak ni Jabesh sang ika-39 nga tuig sang paghari ni Uzia
Kay ginpatay siya ni Menahem nga anak ni Gadi kag ginbuslan bilang hari sang nagkadto si Menahem sa Samaria halin sa Tirza.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Shalum, pati ang iya plano nga pagpatay kay Zacarias kay Zacarias , nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sadto nga tion, ginsalakay ni Menahem ang Tifsa kag ang mga lugar sa palibot sini hasta sa Tirza, kay ang mga pumuluyo sini indi magsurender sa iya. Ginpamatay niya ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Tifsa, kag ginpangririan ang tiyan sang mga nagabulusong nga mga babayi.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Menahem nga anak ni Gadi sang ika-39 nga tuig sang paghari ni Azaria sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Menahem, kag nag-estar si Menahem, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 10 ka tuig.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sa bilog niya nga paghari wala siya nagbiya sa mga sala ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Karon, nagkadto si Haring Tiglat Piliser
Nagaedad si Azaria sang 16 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 52 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Jecolia nga taga-Jerusalem.
Ang mga pilak ginkuha ni Menahem sa mga manggaranon sa Israel paagi sa pagpilit sa kada isa sa ila sa paghatag sang tag-50 ka bilog nga pilak. Gani nag-untat sa pagsalakay ang hari sang Assyria kag nagpuli siya sa iya nasyon.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Menahem, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Sang napatay si Menahem, si Pekaya nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Pekaya nga anak ni Menahem sang ika-50 nga tuig sang paghari ni Azaria sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Pekaya, kag nag-estar si Pekaya, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.
Karon, nagplano sing malain si Peka nga anak ni Remalia kontra kay Pekaya. Ining si Peka amo ang kumander sang mga soldado ni Pekaya. Upod sa 50 ka tawo nga taga-Gilead, ginpatay ni Peka si Pekaya pati si Argob kag si Arieh, didto sa mabakod nga parte sang palasyo sa Samaria. Kag ginbuslan ni Peka si Pekaya bilang hari.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Pekaya, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Peka nga anak ni Remalia sang ika-52 ka tuig sang paghari ni Azaria sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Peka, kag nag-estar si Peka, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 20 ka tuig.
Sang panahon sang paghari ni Peka, ginsalakay ni Haring Tiglat Piliser sang Assyria ang Israel, kag naagaw niya ang mga banwa sang Ion, Abel Bet Maaca, Janoa, Kedesh, kag Hazor. Naagaw man niya ang Gilead, Galilea, kag ang bilog nga duta sang Naftali. Kag gindala niya ang mga pumuluyo sini sa Assyria bilang mga bihag.
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Azaria sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya amay nga si Amazia
Dayon nagplano sing malain si Hoseas nga anak ni Elah kontra kay Peka nga anak ni Remalia. Ginpatay niya si Peka kag ginbuslan bilang hari. Natabo ini sang ika-20 nga tuig sang paghari ni Jotam, nga anak ni Uzia, sa Juda.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Peka, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Jotam nga anak ni Uzia sang ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Peka, nga anak ni Remalia, sa Israel.
Nagaedad si Jotam sang 25 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 16 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Jerusha nga anak ni Zadok.
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Jotam sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya amay nga si Uzia.
Pero wala niya ginpaguba ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, gani padayon didto ang mga tawo sa paghalad sang mga halad kag sa pagsunog sang mga insenso. Si Jotam ang nagpatindog sang puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa north.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jotam, kag ang iya mga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Sang panahon sang iya paghari, nagsugod ang Ginoo Ginoo sa paggamit kay Haring Rezin sang Aram kag kay Peka nga anak ni Remalia sa pagsalakay sa Juda.
Sang napatay si Jotam, ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David nga iya man katigulangan. Kag si Ahaz nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Pero wala niya ginpaguba ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, gani padayon didto ang mga tawo sa paghalad sang mga halad kag sa pagsunog sang mga insenso.
Ginpaantos sang Ginoo Ginoo si Azaria sang delikado nga balatian sa panit
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Azaria, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Sang napatay si Azaria, ginlubong siya malapit sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David. Kag si Jotam nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Zacarias nga anak ni Jeroboam II II sang ika-38 nga tuig sang paghari ni Azaria sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Zacarias, kag nag-estar si Zacarias, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang anom ka bulan.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya mga katigulangan. Wala siya nagbiya sa mga sala ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel.
Nangin hari sang Juda si Ahaz nga anak ni Jotam sang ika-17 nga tuig sang paghari ni Peka, nga anak ni Remalia, sa Israel sa Israel .
Dayon nagkadto si Haring Ahaz sa Damascus sa pagpakigkita kay Haring Tiglat Piliser sang Assyria. Sang didto siya, may nakita siya nga halaran. Gani ginpadal-an niya ang pari nga si Uria sang modelo sang halaran lakip na ang mga detalye sa paghimo sini.
Naghimo si Uria sang halaran nga suno gid sa modelo nga ginpadala sa iya ni Ahaz, kag natapos niya ang halaran sa wala pa nakabalik si Ahaz.
Dayon ginpakuha niya ang daan nga halaran nga saway. Ara ini sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa tunga sang bag-o nga halaran kag sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon ginpabutang niya ini sa north sang bag-o nga halaran.
Nagmando siya dayon kay Uria nga pari, “Gamita ang bag-o nga halaran sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kada aga kag sang mga halad nga regalo kada gab-i. Gamita man ini sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga regalo nga ginahalad sang hari kag sang mga tawo, kag pati man sa ila mga halad nga ilimnon. Iwisik mo sa bag-o nga halaran ang dugo sang halad nga ginasunog kag sang iban pa nga mga halad. Pero ang saway nga halaran himuon ko nga akon palangamuyuan.”
Kag ginhimo ni Uria nga pari ang ginsugo sa iya ni Haring Ahaz.
Dayon ginkuha ni Haring Ahaz ang mga dingding kag mga labador sang mga karo nga ginagamit sa paghakot sang tubig sa templo sa templo . Ginkuha man niya ang dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag Dagat sa likod sang mga turo nga baka nga saway, kag ginbutang ini sa tulungtungan nga bato.
Kag para malipay ang hari sang Assyria, ginkuha ni Ahaz sa palasyo ang ulu-atop nga ginagamit kon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kag ginsira ang alagyan sang mga hari sang Juda sang Juda pasulod sa templo.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Ahaz, kag ang iya mga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Nagaedad si Ahaz sang 20 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 16 ka tuig. Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, indi pareho sa ginhimo sang iya katigulangan nga si David.
Sang napatay si Ahaz, ginlubong siya sa ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan sa Banwa ni David. Kag si Hezekia nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagsunod siya sa mga pagginawi sang mga hari sang Israel, kag bisan gani ang iya anak ginhalad niya sa kalayo. Ginsunod niya ang makangilil-ad nga mga ginahimo sang mga nasyon nga ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Naghalad siya sang mga halad kag nagsunog sang mga insenso sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, sa ibabaw sang mga bukid kag sa idalom sang tagsa ka madabong nga kahoy.
Samtang nagahari si Ahaz sa Juda, nagsalakay sa Jerusalem si Haring Rezin sang Aram kag si Haring Peka sang Israel, nga anak ni Remalia, kag ginpalibutan nila ini. Pero wala nila madaog si Ahaz.
Sadto nga tion, nabawi ni Haring Rezin sang Aram
Nagsugo si Ahaz sang mga mensahero sa pagdala sang sini nga mensahi kay Haring Tiglat Piliser sang Assyria: “Ako nga imo alagad luwasa sa mga kamot sang hari sang Aram kag sang hari sang Israel nga nagasalakay sa akon.”
Ginkuha ni Ahaz ang pilak kag bulawan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa bodega sang palasyo kag ginpadala ini sa hari sang Assyria bilang regalo.
Nagsugot ang hari sang Assyria sa ginpangabay ni Ahaz, gani ginsalakay niya ang Damascus kag gin-agaw ini. Gindala niya ang mga pumuluyo sini sa Kir bilang mga bihag, kag ginpatay niya si Rezin.
Nangin hari sang Israel si Hoseas nga anak ni Elah sang ikadose nga tuig sang paghari ni Ahaz sa Juda. Sa Samaria nag-estar si Hoseas, kag nag-estar si Hoseas, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang siyam ka tuig.
Nagpatindog sila sang handumanan nga mga bato kag mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera sa ibabaw sang tagsa ka bukid kag sa idalom sang tagsa ka madabong nga kahoy.
Nagsunog sila sang mga insenso sa tagsa ka simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, pareho sang ginhimo sang mga nasyon nga ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila. Naghimo sila sang malain nga mga butang nga nakapaakig sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsimba sila sa mga dios-dios bisan nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi kamo magsimba sa mga dios-dios.”
Ginapaandaman permi sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Israel kag Juda paagi sa mga propeta kag manalagna: “Magbiya na kamo sa inyo malain nga mga pagginawi. Tumana ninyo ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ara sa bilog nga Kasuguan nga ginpatuman ko sa inyo mga katigulangan kag ginhatag ko sa inyo paagi sa akon mga alagad nga mga propeta.”
Pero indi sila magtuman. Matig-a ang ila mga ulo pareho sa ila mga katigulangan nga wala nagsalig sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Ginsikway nila ang iya mga pagsulundan kag ang kasugtanan nga ginhimo niya sa ila mga katigulangan, kag ginbaliwala nila ang iya mga paandam sa ila. Ginsunod nila ang mga wala sing pulos nga mga dios-dios, kag sila nangin wala man sing pulos. Ginsunod nila ang mga nasyon sa ila palibot bisan ginmanduan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi sila magsunod. Ginhimo gid nila ang mga butang nga ginbawal sa ila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon.
Ginsikway nila ang tanan nga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, kag naghimo sila para sa ila kaugalingon sang imahen sang duha ka bataon nga baka, kag sang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Nagsimba sila sa tanan nga butang sa kalangitan kag sa kay Baal.
Ginhalad nila ang ila mga bata sa kalayo; nagdangop sila sa mga manugpakot kag mga babaylan, kag gintugyan nila ang ila kaugalingon sa paghimo sang malain sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag nakapaakig ini sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Naakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga taga-Israel kag ginpahalin niya sila sa ila lugar palayo sa ila lugar palayo sa iya presensya. Ang tribo lang ni Juda amo ang nabilin,
kag bisan gani ang Juda wala man nagtuman sa mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios. Ginsunod nila ang mga pagginawi nga gintudlo sa ila sang mga taga-Israel.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero indi gid pareho sa ginhimo sang mga hari sang Israel nga nauna sa iya.
Gani ginsikway sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel. Ginsilutan niya sila paagi sa pagtugyan sa ila sa mga nagsalakay sa ila hasta nga ginpahalin niya sila sa ila lugar palayo sa ila lugar palayo sa iya presensya.
Sang ginseparar sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Israel sa ginharian ni David, ginhimo sang mga taga-Israel si Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat nga ila hari. Gin-ganyat ni Jeroboam ang mga taga-Israel sa pagbiya sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag gintulod niya sila sa paghimo sang dako nga sala.
Nagpadayon sa pagsunod ang mga taga-Israel sa mga sala ni Jeroboam, kag wala gid sila nagbiya sa sini,
hasta nga ginpahalin sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila lugar palayo sa iya presensya, suno sa iya ginpaandam sa ila paagi sa iya mga alagad nga mga propeta. Gani ginbihag ang katawhan sang Israel sa Assyria, kag didto sila nagaestar hasta subong.
Nagpadala ang hari sang Assyria sang mga tawo sa Samaria halin sa Babilonia, Cut, Ava, Hamat, kag Sefarvaim, kag ginpaestar niya sila sa mga banwa sang Samaria sa pagbulos sa mga taga-Israel. Gani ginsakop nila ang Samaria kag ang iban pa nga mga banwa sang Israel.
Sang pagsugod nila estar didto, wala sila nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo ; gani ginpadal-an sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga leon kag ginpamatay ang iban sa ila.
Ini nga hitabo ginbalita sa hari sang Assyria: “Ang mga tawo nga imo ginpadala kag ginpaestar sa mga banwa sang Samaria wala kahibalo sang kasuguan sang dios sa amo nga lugar. Gani ginpadal-an niya sila sang mga leon kag ginpamatay ang iban sa ila, kay wala gid sila kahibalo sang iya kasuguan.”
Nagmando dayon ang hari sang Assyria, “Pabalika sa Samaria ang isa sa mga pari nga aton ginbihag, kag didto siya paestara para makatudlo siya sa mga tawo kon ano ang kasuguan sang dios sa amo nga lugar.”
Gani ang isa sa mga pari nga ginbihag nagbalik sa Samaria kag didto nag-estar sa Betel, kag gintudluan niya ang mga tawo kon paano magsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero ining nagkalain-lain nga grupo sang mga tawo padayon nga naghimo sang ila mga dios-dios sa tagsa ka banwa nga ila ginaestaran. Ginbutang nila ang ila mga dios-dios sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar nga ginhimo sang mga taga-Samaria.
Ginsalakay ni Haring Shalmaneser sang Assyria si Hoseas. Ginsakop niya siya kag ginpabayad sang buhis.
Ang halin sa Babilonia naghimo sang imahen sang ila dios nga si imahen sang ila dios nga si Sucot Benot. Ang halin sa Cut naghimo sang imahen sang ila dios nga si imahen sang ila dios nga si Nergal. Ang halin sa Hamat naghimo sang imahen sang ila dios nga si imahen sang ila dios nga si Ashima.
Ang mga Avimnon naghimo sang imahen sang ila mga dios nga si imahen sang ila mga dios nga si Nibhaz kag si Tartak. Kag ang mga Sefarvaimnon ginsunog nila ang ila mga kabataan bilang halad sa ila mga dios nga si Adramelec kag si Anamelec.
Nagsimba sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , pero nagpili sila sang mga pari halin mismo sa ila mga tawo sa pagpanguna sa ila sa paghalad sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar.
Nagsimba sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , pero nagsimba man sila sa ila kaugalingon nga mga dios suno sa kinabatasan sang mga nasyon nga ila ginhalinan.
Hasta subong ginahimo gihapon nila ini. Indi matuod ang ila pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala sila nagatuman sa mga sugo, mga pagsulundan, mga pagpanudlo, kag mga kasuguan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob, nga iya gin-ngalanan nga Israel.
Sang naghimo ang Ginoo Ginoo sang kasugtanan sa mga Israelinhon, nagmando siya sa ila: “Indi kamo magsimba ukon mag-alagad sa mga dios-dios, ukon maghalad sa ila.
Ako lang ang inyo simbahon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt paagi sa akon dako nga gahom. Ako lang ang dapat ninyo simbahon kag halaran.
Dapat tumanon ninyo permi ang akon mga sugo, mga pagsulundan, mga pagpanudlo, kag mga kasuguan nga akon ginsulat para sa inyo. Indi gid kamo magsimba sa iban nga mga dios.
Indi ninyo pagkalimtan ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo, kag indi kamo magsimba sa iban nga mga dios.
Ako lang gid ang inyo simbahon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kay ako ang magaluwas sa inyo sa tanan ninyo nga kaaway.”
Pero sang ulihi wala na nagbayad si Hoseas sang buhis pareho sang iya ginahimo kada tuig, kag nagpangayo siya sang bulig kay Haring So sang Egypt. Sang mahibaluan ni Shalmaneser nga nagtraidor si Hoseas, gindakop niya siya kag ginpriso.
Pero ato nga mga tawo wala nagpamati sa Ginoo Ginoo , kundi nagpadayon sila sa paghimo sang ila daan nga mga kinabatasan.
Samtang nagasimba sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , nagasimba man sila sa ila mga dios-dios. Kag hasta subong amo ina ang ginahimo sang ila mga kaliwat.
Dayon ginsalakay sang hari sang Assyria ang bilog nga Israel, kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig ginpalibutan niya ang Samaria.
Kag sang ikasiyam nga tuig sang paghari ni Hoseas, gin-agaw sang hari sang Assyria ang Samaria, kag gindala niya ang mga taga-Israel sa Assyria bilang mga bihag. Ginpaestar niya sila sa Hala, sa mga lugar malapit sa Suba sang Habor sa Gozan, kag sa mga banwa sang mga Medianhon.
Natabo ini sa mga taga-Israel tungod kay nakasala sila sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios nga nagpaguwa sa ila sa Egypt kag naghilway sa ila sa mga kamot sang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt. Nagsimba sila sa iban nga mga dios
kag nagsunod sa mga pagginawi sang mga nasyon nga ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila. Nagsunod man sila sa mga pagginawi nga gintudlo sang mga hari sang Israel.
Naghimo sila sa tago sang mga butang nga kontra sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios. Naghimo man sila sang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar bisan diin sa Israel, sa Israel, halin sa magagmay nga mga magagmay nga mga baryo
Nangin hari sang Juda si Hezekia nga anak ni Ahaz sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang paghari ni Hoseas, nga anak ni Elah, sa Israel.
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka tuig, sang ikaanom nga tuig sang paghari ni Hezekia kag sang ikasiyam nga tuig sang paghari ni Hoseas, naagaw sang Assyria ang Samaria.
Gindala sang hari sang Assyria ang mga taga-Israel sa Assyria bilang mga bihag, kag ginpaestar sila sa Hala, sa mga lugar nga malapit sa Suba sang Habor sa Gozan, kag sa mga banwa sang mga Medianhon.
Natabo ini sa mga taga-Israel tungod kay wala sila nagtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, kundi ginlapas nila ang kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila sa ila —ang tanan nga sugo nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya alagad nga si Moises. Wala sila nagpamati ukon nagtuman sini.
Sang ika-14 nga tuig sang paghari ni Hezekia, ginsalakay ni Haring Senakerib sang Assyria ang tanan nga napaderan nga mga banwa sang Juda kag gin-agaw niya ini.
Gani nagpadala sang sini nga mensahi si Haring Hezekia sa hari sang Assyria sa Lakish: “Nakasala ako sa akon pagrebelde sa imo sa akon pagrebelde sa imo . Pero hatagan ko ikaw sang bisan ano nga imo pangayuon, basta maghalin lang kamo sa amon.” Gani nangayo ang hari sang Assyria kay Haring Hezekia sing mga napulo ka tonelada nga pilak kag isa ka tonelada nga bulawan.
Ginhatag ni Hezekia sa iya ang tanan nga pilak sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa bodega sang palasyo sang hari.
Ginpanguha ni Hezekia pati ang mga bulawan nga iya ginhaklap sa mga puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa mga hamba
Pero samtang didto si Senakerib sa Lakish, ginsugo niya ang iya pangulo nga kumander, ang pangulo nga opisyal, kag ang iya kumander nga may madamo nga soldado, nga magkadto sa Jerusalem sa pagpakigkita kay Haring Hezekia. Sang didto na sila sa guwa sang Jerusalem, nagpundo sila malapit sa ililigan sang ibabaw nga punong, didto dampi sa dalan pakadto sa lugar nga ginapanglabhan.
Ginpatawag nila si Haring Hezekia, pero ang ginpakadto sang hari amo si Eliakim nga anak ni Hilkia, nga administrador sang palasyo, si Shebna nga sekretaryo, kag si Joa nga anak ni Asaf, nga manugdumala sang mga kasulatan sang ginharian.
“ ‘Ano ang imo ginasaligan?
Nagaedad si Hezekia sang 25 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 29 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Abia nga anak ni Zacarias.
Nagahunahuna ka bala nga madaog mo ang inaway sa pulong lamang kag indi sa abilidad kag kusog sang imo mga soldado? Sin-o bala ang imo ginasaligan nga nagrebelde ka sa akon?
Ang Egypt bala? Ini nga nasyon kag ang iya hari pareho lang sa bali nga baston nga kon gamiton mo nga panukod makapilas sang imo kamot.
Pero basi kon magsiling kamo sa akon nga nagasalig kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Pero indi bala nga ginpaguba mo gani ang iya mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar pati ang mga halaran sini, kag ginhambalan mo ang mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem nga dapat magsimba sila sa isa lang ka isa lang ka halaran didto sa Jerusalem?’
“Karon may ginatanyag sa imo ang akon agalon, ang hari sang Assyria. Hatagan ka namon sang 2,000 ka kabayo, ina kon may 2,000 ka man ka manugkabayo!
Wala ka gid padaog bisan sa pinakanubo nga opisyal sang akon agalon. Nagasalig ka man lang sa Egypt nga maghatag sa imo sang mga karwahe kag mga manugkabayo.
Nagahunahuna ka bala nga wala ako pagsugua sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagkadto diri sa paglaglag sang sini nga nasyon? Ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang nagsugo sa akon sa pagsalakay kag sa paglaglag sang sini nga nasyon.”
Nagsiling si Eliakim, Shebna, kag Joa sa kumander, “Palihog maghambal ka sa amon sa lingguahe nga Aramico, kay naintiendihan namon ini. Indi ka maghambal sa Hebreo kay mabatian ka sang mga tawo nga ara sa mga pader sang siyudad.”
Pero nagsabat ang kumander, “Ginsugo ako sang akon agalon nga ipahibalo ini nga mga butang sa tanan nga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem, indi lang sa inyo kag sa inyo hari. Kamo tanan gutumon kag uhawon sa tion nga salakayon namon kamo. Gani gutumon kag uhawon sa tion nga salakayon namon kamo. Gani kaunon ninyo ang inyo tai kag imnon ninyo ang inyo ihi.”
Dayon nagtindog ang kumander kag nagsinggit sa lingguahe nga Hebreo, “Pamatii ninyo ang mensahi sang gamhanan nga hari sang Assyria!
Amo ini ang iya ginasiling: Indi kamo magpatunto kay Hezekia. Indi siya makaluwas sa inyo sa akon mga kamot!
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Hezekia sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya katigulangan nga si David.
Indi kamo magpaganyat sa iya nga magsalig sa Ginoo Ginoo kon magsiling siya, ‘Sigurado gid nga luwason kita sang Ginoo Ginoo ; ini nga siyudad indi pag-itugyan sa kamot sang hari sang Assyria.’
“Indi kamo magpamati kay Hezekia! Amo ini ang ginasiling sang hari sang Assyria: ‘Indi na kamo magkontra sa akon; magsurender na lang kamo! Dayon tugutan ko kamo nga makakaon sang bunga sang inyo ubas kag higera, kag makainom sa inyo mga pulunduhan sang tubig,
hasta nga magabalik ako kag dal-on ko kamo sa duta nga pareho sang inyo duta—ang duta nga may mga talamnan sang ubas nga makahatag sa inyo sang duga sang ubas kag may mga uyas nga mahimo ninyo nga tinapay, kag may ara man sang mga kahoy nga olibo kag honey. Tumana ninyo ang akon ginasiling para mabuhi kamo kag indi mapatay. Indi kamo magpamati kay Hezekia kay ginapatalang lang niya kamo sa iya ginasiling nga luwason kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
May mga dios bala sa bisan diin nga nasyon nga nakaluwas sa ila nasyon sa kamot sang hari sang Assyria?
May nahimo bala ang mga dios sang Hamat, Arpad, Sefarvaim, Hena, kag Iva? Naluwas bala sang mga dios sang Samaria ang ila duta sa akon mga kamot?
Sin-o sa mga dios sang sini nga mga nasyon ang nakaluwas sa ila nasyon sa akon? Gani paano maluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Jerusalem sa akon mga kamot?’ ”
Pero wala nagsabat ang mga tawo kay nagmando si Haring Hezekia nga indi sila magsabat.
Dayon gin-gisi ni Eliakim nga anak ni Helkia, Shebna nga sekretaryo, kag Joa ang ila mga bayo sa kasubo, sa kasubo, kag nagkadto sila kay Hezekia kag ginsugid ang mga ginsiling sang kumander.
Ginpaguba niya ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, ginpadugmok ang mga handumanan nga bato, kag ginpautod ang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Ginpadugmok man niya ang saway nga man-og nga ginhimo ni Moises, kay hasta sadto nga tion ginasimba ato sang mga Israelinhon paagi sa pagsunog sang mga insenso. Ining saway nga man-og gintawag nga Nehushtan.
Nagsalig si Hezekia sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel. Wala gid sing hari sa Juda nga pareho sa iya, bisan ang mga nauna sa iya kag ang mga sunod sa iya.
Matutom gid siya sa pagsunod sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala gid siya nag-untat sa pagsunod sa iya. Kag gintuman niya ang mga sugo nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Gin-updan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag madinalag-on siya sa tanan niya nga ginahimo. Nagrebelde siya sa hari sang Assyria kag wala nag-alagad sa iya.
Halin sa mga baryo
Sang ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Hezekia, nga amo ang ikapito nga tuig sang paghari ni Hoseas sa Israel, nagsalakay si Haring Shalmaneser sang Assyria sa Samaria kag ginpalibutan ini.
Sang pagkabati ni Haring Hezekia sa ginbalita sa iya, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo kag nagsuksok sang sako sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo, sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo, kag nagkadto siya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Indi ka magpatunto sa dios nga imo ginasaligan kon magsiling siya, ‘Ang Jerusalem indi pag-itugyan sa kamot sang hari sang Assyria.’
Pamati! Ikaw mismo ang nakabati kon ano ang ginhimo sang mga hari sang Assyria sa halos tanan nga nasyon. Ginlaglag nila sila sing bug-os. Kag ikaw, nagahunahuna ka bala nga makaluwas ka?
Ginpanglaglag sang akon mga katigulangan ang mga banwa sang Gozan, Haran, Rezef, kag ang katawhan sang Eden nga ara sa Telasar. Naluwas bala sila sang ila mga dios?
May nahimo bala ang mga hari sang Hamat, Arpad, Sefarvaim, Hena, kag Iva?”
Pagkatapos basa ni Hezekia sa sulat nga ginhatag sa iya sang mga mensahero, nagkadto siya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginhumlad ang sulat sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagpangamuyo siya, “ Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel nga nagapungko sa trono sa tunga-tunga sang mga kerubin, ikaw lang ang Dios nga nagadumala sa tanan nga ginharian diri sa kalibutan. Ginhimo mo ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan.
Ginoo Ginoo , pamatii kag tan-awa ang nagakalatabo ang nagakalatabo . Pamatii ang tanan nga ginsiling ni Senakerib sa pagyaguta sa imo, O buhi nga Dios.
Matuod, Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginpanglaglag sang mga hari sang Assyria ang madamo nga nasyon
pati ang ila sini nga mga dios-dios paagi sa paghaboy sini sa kalayo. Kay indi ini matuod nga mga dios kundi mga bato lang kag mga kahoy nga ginhimo sang tawo.
Gani karon, Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, luwasa kami sa kamot sang Assyria, para ang tanan nga ginharian diri sa kalibutan makahibalo nga ikaw lang, Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios.”
Ginpakadto niya kay Isaias, nga anak ni Amoz, sila ni Eliakim nga administrador sang palasyo, si Shebna nga sekretaryo, kag ang mga nagapangulo nga mga pari. Tanan sila nagasuksok sang sako.
Dayon nagpadala si Isaias nga anak ni Amoz sang sini nga mensahi kay Hezekia: “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: Nabatian ko ang imo pangamuyo parte kay Haring Senakerib sang Assyria.
samtang nagapalagyo ka.
Indi bala ako, ako, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel?
nga may madabong nga kakahuyan.
Sa akon nga pag-agi, nagmala ang mga sapa sa Egypt.”
kag karon ginatuman ko na ini.
nga sang pag-ulhot nalaya dayon.
kag kon ano ang imo kaakig sa akon.
sa dalan nga imo gin-agyan.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Isaias kay Dayon nagsiling si Isaias kay Hezekia, “Amo ini ang tanda nga proteksyunan sang Ginoo ang Jerusalem sa mga taga-Assyria: nga proteksyunan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Jerusalem sa mga taga-Assyria: Karon nga tuig ang inyo kaunon amo ang mga bunga sang mga tanom nga nagtubo lang, kag sa sunod nga tuig ang mga bunga naman sang mga tanom nga nagtubo sa gintubuan man sadto. Pero sa ikatatlo nga tuig makatanom na kamo sang uyas sang uyas kag makaani. Makatanom man kamo sang mga ubas kag makakaon sang bunga sini.
Pag-abot nila kay Isaias, Pag-abot nila kay Isaias, nagsiling sila sa iya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling ni Hezekia: ‘Nagaantos kita sa sini nga tion; ginasilutan kag ginapakahuy-an kita. Pareho kita sa manugbata nga wala na sing kusog sa pagbun-a sang iya bata.
Sa liwat, ang mga nagkalabilin nga buhi sa Juda magauswag pareho sa tanom nga nagapanggamot sing madalom kag nagapamunga.
Kay may magakalabilin nga buhi nga magalalapta halin sa Jerusalem, ang mga naluwas halin sa Bukid sang Zion. Siguraduhon gid sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga matuman ini.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa hari sang Assyria: ‘Indi siya makasulod sa siyudad sang Jerusalem ukon makapana sini. Indi siya makapalapit nga may taming ukon makatumpok sang duta sa kilid sang pader sang siyudad para mataklas ini.
Magabalik siya sa iya ginhalinan, sa dalan nga iya gin-agyan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga indi gid siya makasulod sa sini nga siyudad.
Protektaran kag luwason ko ini nga siyudad para sa akon kadungganan kag tungod sa akon promisa kay David nga akon alagad.’ ”
Pagkagab-i, nagkadto ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kampo sang mga taga-Assyria kag ginpatay niya ang 185,000 ka soldado. Pagkaaga, pagbugtaw sang mga nagkalabilin nga buhi, nakita nila ang madamo nga bangkay.
Tungod sini, nagpuli si Senakerib sa Nineve kag didto nagtiner.
Isa ka adlaw, samtang nagasimba si Senakerib sa templo sang iya dios nga si Nisroc, ginpatay siya sa espada sang iya duha ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Adramelec kag Sharezer, kag dayon nagpalagyo sila sa Ararat. Ang isa niya ka anak nga si Esarhadon amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Ginsugo sang hari sang Assyria ang iya kumander sa pagyaguta sa buhi nga Dios. Basi pa lang talupangdon sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga imo Dios, ang ginsiling sang kumander kag silutan siya sa iya mga ginhambal. Gani magpangamuyo ka para sa aton nga nagkalabilin.’ ”
Pagkatapos hambal sang mga opisyal nga ginpadala ni Haring Hezekia,
nagsiling si Isaias sa ila, “Hambali ninyo ang inyo agalon nga si Haring Hezekia nga si Haring Hezekia nga amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Indi ka magkahadlok sa imo nabatian nga pagyaguta sa akon sang mga bata-bata sang hari sang Assyria.
Pamati! Patalangon ko
Karon sang mabatian sang kumander sang mga soldado sang Assyria nga naghalin na sa Lakish ang ila hari kag nagpakig-away sa Libna, nagkadto siya didto.
Nabalitaan ni Haring Senakerib sang Assyria sang Assyria nga si Haring Tirhaka sang Ethiopia
Sadto nga tion, nagmasakit si Hezekia kag daw mapatay na siya. Nagkadto sa iya si Propeta Isaias nga anak ni Amoz kag nagsiling, “Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon mo na ang nagakadapat mo nga himuon kay indi ka na mag-ayo kundi mapatay ka.”
Nagsabat si Hezekia, “Mas mahapos mag-abanse sing napulo ka gutlo ang landong. Paisula na lang ini sing napulo ka gutlo!”
Gani nagpangamuyo si Propeta Isaias sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginpaisol sang Ginoo Ginoo sing napulo ka gutlo ang landong sang adlaw sa orasan nga ginpahimo ni Ahaz.
Sang sadto nga tion, ang hari sang Babilonia nga si Merodac Baladan, nga anak ni Baladan, nakabalita nga nagmasakit si Hezekia. Gani nagpadala siya sang mga sulat kag regalo kay Hezekia paagi sa mga mensahero paagi sa mga mensahero .
Gin-abiabi ni Hezekia ang mga mensahero kag ginpakita niya sa ila ang tanan nga butang sa iya talaguan sang manggad—ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, mga panakot, mga maayo nga klase sang lana, ang iya mga armas kag ang iban pa niya nga mga manggad. Wala sing bisan ano nga ara sa iya palasyo ukon ginharian nga wala niya ginpakita sa ila.
Karon, nagkadto si Propeta Isaias kay Haring Hezekia kag nagpamangkot, “Diin bala naghalin ina nga mga tawo, kag ano ang ila kinahanglan?” Nagsabat si Hezekia, “Halin sila sa malayo nga lugar, sa Babilonia.”
Nagpamangkot pa gid ang propeta, “Ano ang ila nakita sa imo palasyo?” Nagsabat si Hezekia, “Nakita nila ang tanan sa akon palasyo. Wala gid sing bisan ano sa akon manggad nga wala ko ginpakita sa ila.”
Dayon nagsiling si Isaias kay Hezekia, “Pamatii ining mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo :
Magaabot gid ang tion nga dal-on sa Babilonia ang tanan nga pagkabutang sa imo palasyo, ang tanan nga natipon sang imo mga katigulangan nga ara pa hasta subong. Wala gid sing may mabilin, siling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag ang iban sa imo palaabuton nga mga kaliwat pagabihagon, kag mangin mga alagad sila sa palasyo sang hari sang Babilonia.”
Naghunahuna si Hezekia nga indi ina matabo sa iya tiyempo kundi indi ina matabo sa iya tiyempo kundi may kalinong kag wala sing katalagman samtang buhi pa siya. Gani nagsiling siya kay Isaias, “Maayo inang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginhambal mo sa akon.”
Pagkabati sini ni Hezekia, nag-atubang siya sa dingding kag nagpangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Hezekia, kag ang tanan niya nga bantog nga binuhatan kag ang iya pagpahimo sang punong kag sang ginailigan sini pakadto sa siyudad, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Sang napatay si Hezekia, si Manase nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Siling niya, “ Ginoo Ginoo , dumduma kon paano ako nagkabuhi nga matutom sa imo kag nag-alagad sing tinagipusuon, kag kon paano ako naghimo sing maayo sa imo panulok.” Kag naghilibion siya sing tudo.
Sa wala pa makahalin si Isaias sa tunga nga ugsaran sang palasyo, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya,
“Magbalik ka kay Hezekia, nga pangulo sang akon katawhan, kag ihambal ini: ‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang imo katigulangan nga si David: Nabatian ko ang imo pangamuyo kag nakita ko ang imo mga luha. Ayuhon ko ikaw. Sa ikatatlo nga adlaw sugod subong makabangon ka na makabangon ka na , kag magakadto ka sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dugangan ko pa sang 15 ka tuig ang imo kabuhi. Luwason ko ikaw kag ang ini nga siyudad sa kamot sang hari sang Assyria. Protektaran ko ini nga siyudad para sa akon kadungganan kag tungod kay David nga akon alagad.’ ”
Ginsilingan ni Isaias ang mga suluguon ni Hezekia ang mga suluguon ni Hezekia nga hampulan nila ang iya hubag sang gindunot nga higos. Gintuman nila ini, kag nag-ayo siya.
Sang wala pa mag-ayo Sang wala pa mag-ayo si Hezekia, nagpamangkot siya kay Isaias, “Ano bala ang tanda nga magapamatuod nga magaayo ako kag makakadto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ikatatlo nga adlaw halin subong halin subong ?”
Nagsabat si Isaias, “Amo ini ang tanda nga ihatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpamatuod nga tumanon niya ining iya promisa. Magpili ka sa sining duha: Magpili ka sa sining duha: magaabanse sing napulo ka gutlo ang landong sang adlaw sa orasan
Nagaedad si Manase sang dose ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 55 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Hefziba.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya mga alagad nga mga propeta:
“Naghimo si Haring Manase sang Juda sining makangilil-ad nga mga buluhaton, nga mas malain pa sang sa ginhimo sang mga Amornon nga nag-estar sa sini nga duta antes mag-abot ang mga Israelinhon. Gintulod niya ang mga taga-Juda sa pagpakasala paagi sa pagsimba sa pagsimba sa iya mga dios-dios.
Gani ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Dios sang Israel, magapadala sang kalaglagan sa Jerusalem kag Juda, nga ang tagsa-tagsa nga makabati sini mahadlukan gid.
Hukman ko ang Jerusalem pareho sa paghukom ko sa Samaria kag sa panimalay ni Haring Haring Ahab. Limpyuhan ko ang Jerusalem pareho sa pinggan nga ginpahiran kag ginpakulob.
Pagasikwayon ko bisan pa ang nabilin sa akon katawhan kag itugyan ko sila sa ila mga kaaway nga magaagaw sang ila mga pagkabutang.
Matabo ini sa ila kay malain ang ila ginhimo sa akon panulok kag ginpaakig nila ako, halin pa sang pagguwa sang ila mga katigulangan sa Egypt hasta subong.”
Madamo gid ang ginpamatay ni Manase nga inosente nga mga tawo hasta nga nag-ilig ang dugo sa mga karsada sang Jerusalem. Ini wala labot sa sala nga ginhimo niya nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Juda sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Manase, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, pati ang mga sala nga iya nahimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Sang napatay si Manase, ginlubong siya sa hardin sang iya palasyo, ang hardin nga ginatawag Uza. Kag si Amon nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagaedad si Amon sang 22 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya sa Juda. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang duha ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Meshulemet nga anak ni Haruz nga taga-Jotba.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsunod siya sa makangilil-ad nga mga buluhaton sang mga nasyon nga ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Malain ang ginhimo ni Amon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya amay nga si Manase.
Ginsunod niya ang pagginawi sang iya amay. Ginsimba niya ang mga dios-dios nga ginsimba sang iya amay,
kag ginsikway niya ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang iya mga katigulangan. Wala siya nagsunod sa pamaagi sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Karon, nagplano sing malain ang mga opisyal ni Amon kontra sa iya, kag ginpatay nila siya sa iya palasyo.
Pero ginpamatay sang katawhan sang Juda ang tanan nga nagpatay kay Haring Amon. Kag ginbulos nila si Josia nga anak ni Amon bilang hari.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Amon, kag ang iya mga ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Ginlubong si Amon sa iya lulubngan didto sa hardin nga ginatawag Uza. Kag si Josia nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Ginpatindog niya liwat ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar nga ginpaguba sadto sang iya amay nga si Hezekia. Nagpatindog man siya sang mga halaran para kay Baal kag nagpahimo sang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, pareho sang ginhimo ni Haring Ahab sang Israel. Nagluhod siya kag nagsimba sa tanan nga butang sa kalangitan.
Nagpahimo pa gid siya sang mga halaran sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga suno sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang templo sa Jerusalem amo ang lugar nga sa diin padunggan siya.
Ginbutang niya ini nga mga halaran sa duha ka ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagsimba sa tanan nga butang sa kalangitan.
Ginhalad niya ang iya kaugalingon nga bata sa kalayo. Ginhimo man niya ang mga ginahimo sang mga babaylan kag mga manugpakot, kag nagpamangkot siya sa mga espiritista nga nagapakig-estorya sa kalag sang patay. Puwerte gid ang iya pagpakasala sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag nakapaakig ini sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginbutang niya sa templo ang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera nga iya ginpahimo. Kon parte sa sini nga templo nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay David kag sa iya anak nga si Solomon, “Padunggan ako hasta san-o sa sini nga templo kag sa Jerusalem, ang lugar nga akon ginpili sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel.
Kon tumanon lang sang katawhan sang Israel ang tanan ko nga kasuguan nga ginhatag sa ila sang akon alagad nga si Moises, indi ko pagtugutan nga pahalinon sila sa sini nga duta nga ginhatag ko sa ila mga katigulangan.”
Pero wala nagpamati ang mga tawo. Gin-ganyat sila ni Manase sa paghimo sang malain, kag ang ila ginhimo mas malain pa sang sa ginhimo sang mga nasyon nga ginpalaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Nagaedad si Josia sang walo ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 31 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Jedida nga anak ni Adaya nga taga-Bozkat.
Nagsiling pa gid siya sa hari, “May ginhatag sa akon nga libro si Hilkia nga pari.” Kag ginbasa niya ini sa atubangan sang hari.
Pagkabati sang hari sa nasulat sa Libro sang Kasuguan, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo .
Nagmando siya kay Hilkia nga pari, kay Ahikam nga anak ni Shafan, kay Acbor nga anak ni Micaya, kay Shafan nga sekretaryo, kag kay Asaya nga iya personal nga alagad. Siling niya, Siling niya,
“Magpamangkot kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo para sa akon kag para sa katawhan sang Juda parte sining nasulat sa libro nga nakita. Puwerte gid ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton tungod kay wala nagtuman ang aton mga katigulangan sa nasulat sa sini nga libro, nga ginapatuman man sa aton.”
Gani nagkadto sila ni Hilkia nga pari, Ahikam, Acbor, Shafan, kag Asaya sa isa ka propeta nga babayi nga si Hulda sa pagpamangkot sa iya. Ining si Hulda nagaestar sa bag-o nga parte sang Jerusalem kag asawa siya ni Shalum nga anak ni Tikva kag apo ni Harhas. Si Shalum amo ang nagaatipan sang mga bayo sa templo.
Ipakita ko gid ang akon kaakig sa sini nga lugar kag indi ini mauntat, kay ginsikway ako sang akon katawhan kag nagsunog sila sang insenso sa pagsimba sa pagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Ginpaakig gid nila ako sa ila mga ginhimo.
“Pero silinga ninyo ang hari sang Juda, nga nagpadala sa inyo sa pagpamangkot sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga indi siya matublag sa ato nga mensahi, kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel:
Ginpamatian ko ang imo pangamuyo, kay naghinulsol ka kag nagpaubos sang imo kaugalingon sa akon atubangan sang mabatian mo ang akon ginsiling kontra sa sini nga lugar kag sa mga pumuluyo sini, nga pakamalauton kag laglagon ini nga lugar. Gin-gisi mo pa gani ang imo bayo kag naghibi sa akon atubangan sa paghinulsol. Gani ako, sa paghinulsol. Gani ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga
Maayo ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsunod siya sa pagginawi sang iya katigulangan nga si David. Ginsunod gid niya ang husto.
Kag ginsugiran nila ang hari sang sabat ni Hulda.
Sang ika-18 nga tuig sang paghari ni Josia, ginpakadto niya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya sekretaryo nga si Shafan, nga anak ni Azalia kag apo ni Meshulam. Nagsiling siya kay Shafan,
“Magkadto ka kay Hilkia, ang pangulo nga pari, kag ipatipon sa iya ang kuwarta nga gindala sang mga tawo sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginkolekta sang mga nagabantay sa puwertahan sang templo.
Hambali siya nga ihatag niya ini sa mga tawo nga gintugyanan nga magdumala sa pagpakay-o sang templo, para sila ang magsuhol sa mga nagaulobra sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo —
sa mga nagapreparar sang mga kahoy kag sa mga nagakay-o sang templo kag sang mga pader sini. Ang iban nga kuwarta ibakal nila sang mga kahoy kag mga bato nga nabasbasan na, nga kinahanglan sa pagkay-o sang templo.
Pero indi na kinahanglan nga pangitaan pa sila sang lista sang mga gastos kay masaligan sila.”
Nagsiling si Hilkia nga pangulo nga pari kay Shafan nga sekretaryo, “Nakita ko ang Libro sang Kasuguan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .” Ginhatag ni Hilkia ang libro kay Shafan kag ginbasa niya ini.
Dayon nagkadto si Shafan nga sekretaryo sa hari kag nagsiling, “Ginkuha na sang imo mga opisyal ang kuwarta sa templo kag ginhatag sa mga gintugyanan sa pagpakay-o sang templo.”
Dayon ginpatawag ni Haring Josia Josia ang tanan nga manugdumala sang Juda kag Jerusalem.
Gindagtaan man ni Josia ang halaran sang halaran sang Tofet, sa Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom, para wala sing may maghalad didto sang iya bata sa kalayo para kay Molek.
Ginkuha man niya sa puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga kabayo
Ginpaguba niya ang mga halaran nga ginpatindog sang mga hari sang Juda sa matapan nga matapan nga atop sang ibabaw nga kuwarto ni Ahaz, pati ang mga halaran nga ginpahimo ni Manase sa duha ka ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpangdugmok niya ini sing mapino kag ginsabwag ang abo sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig.
Gindagtaan man niya Gindagtaan man niya ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar sa east sang Jerusalem kag sa south sang Bukid sang Kalautan. Ini nga mga simbahan ginpatindog ni Haring Solomon sang Israel para kay Ashtoret, ang makangilil-ad nga diosa sang mga Sidonhon, kag para kay Kemosh, ang makangilil-ad nga dios sang mga Moabnon, kag para man kay Molec, ang makangilil-ad nga dios sang mga Ammonhon.
Ginpangdugmok ni Josia ang handumanan nga mga bato kag ginpang-utod ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Dayon gindagtaan niya ato nga mga lugar paagi sa paglapta didto sang tul-an sang mga tawo.
Bisan ang halaran sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar didto sa Betel gin-guba ni Josia. Ini nga simbahan ginpahimo ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat, nga amo ang nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang mga taga-Israel. Gindugmok ini ni Josia sing mapino kag ginsunog, pati ang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera.
Kag samtang nagatulok siya sa palibot, nakita niya ang mga lulubngan sa kilid sang bukid. Ginpakuha niya ang mga tul-an sa mga lulubngan kag ginsunog niya didto sa halaran sa Betel sa Betel sa pagdagta sini. Natabo ini suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa iya alagad nga nagpropesiya sini nga mga butang.
Nagpamangkot si Haring Josia parte sa isa pa ka lulubngan nga iya nakita, parte sa isa pa ka lulubngan nga iya nakita, “Kay sin-o ina lulubngan?” Nagsabat ang mga tawo sang siyudad, “Lulubngan ina sang alagad sang Dios nga taga-Juda. Siya ang nagpropesiya sining imo ginhimo subong sa halaran sa Betel.”
Nagsiling ang hari, “Pabay-i lang ninyo ang iya lulubngan. Indi ninyo pagkuhaa ang iya mga tul-an.” Gani wala nila pagkuhaa ang iya mga tul-an kag pati ang mga tul-an sang propeta nga taga-Samaria.
Dayon gin-guba ni Josia ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar sa Samaria, pareho sa ginhimo niya sa Betel. Ini nga mga simbahan nga ginpahimo sang mga hari sang Israel nakapaakig gid sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagkadto siya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo upod ang tanan nga katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem halin sa pinakadungganon hasta sa pinakakubos. Nag-upod man ang mga pari kag mga propeta. Ginbasa ni Josia sa ila ang tanan nga nasulat sa Libro sang Kasugtanan, nga nakita sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpamatay ni Josia ang tanan nga pari sang sadto nga mga simbahan didto mismo sa mga halaran sini. Kag nagsunog siya sang mga tul-an sang tawo sa sadto nga mga halaran sa pagdagta sini sa pagdagta sini . Dayon nagbalik siya sa Jerusalem.
Nagmando si Josia sa tanan nga tawo, “Magsaulog kita sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, suno sa nasulat diri sa Libro sang Kasugtanan.”
Kay wala sing pareho sina nga klase sang pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sang panahon sang mga pangulo nga nagdumala sa Israel kag sang panahon sang mga hari sang Israel kag Juda.
Ginsaulog ini nga piesta sa Jerusalem sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo sang ika-18 nga tuig sang paghari ni Josia.
Gindula man ni Josia sa Juda kag Jerusalem ang mga espiritista nga nagapakig-estorya sa kalag sang patay, ang mga dios sang mga panimalay, ang iban pa nga mga dios-dios, kag ang tanan nga makangilil-ad nga ginasimba sang mga tawo. Ginhimo ini ni Josia sa pagtuman sa mga sugo nga nasulat sa libro nga nakita ni Hilkia nga pari sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Wala pa gid sing hari nga pareho kay Josia nga nagsunod sa Ginoo Ginoo sa bug-os niya nga tagipusuon, sa bug-os niya nga kalag, kag sa bug-os niya nga kusog. Gintuman gid niya ang tanan nga Kasuguan ni Moises. Kag wala na sing pareho sa iya sa masunod nga mga hari.
Pero bisan pa sining tanan, wala gihapon nakuha ang puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Juda, tungod sa tanan nga ginhimo ni Manase nga nakapaakig sa iya.
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pahalinon ko ang mga taga-Juda sa ila lugar palayo sa ila lugar palayo sa akon presensya pareho sa ginhimo ko sa mga taga-Israel. Kag sikwayon ko ang Jerusalem, ang siyudad nga akon ginpili, pati ang ini nga templo nga ginsiling ko nga diri ako padunggan.”
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Josia, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Sang nagahari pa si Josia, si Faraon Neco nga hari sang Egypt nagkadto sa Suba sang Euphrates sa pagbulig sa hari sang Assyria. Naglakat si Haring Josia kag ang iya mga soldado kag ang iya mga soldado sa pagpakig-away kay Neco, pero ginpatay siya ni Neco sang magkitaay sila sa Megido.
Dayon nagtindog si Josia sa kilid sang haligi
Ginkarga sang iya mga alagad ang iya bangkay sa karwahe kag gindala balik sa Jerusalem kag ginlubong sa iya kaugalingon nga lulubngan. Ang iya anak nga si Jehoahaz amo ang ginbulos sang katawhan sang Juda nga hari paagi sa paghaplas sa iya sang lana.
Nagaedad si Jehoahaz sang 23 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan. Ang iya iloy amo si Hamutal nga anak ni Jeremias nga taga-Libna.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya mga katigulangan.
Ginpriso siya ni Faraon Neco sa Ribla nga sakop sang duta sang Hamat, para indi siya maghari sa Jerusalem. Ginpabayad ni Neco ang Juda sang buhis nga mga 3,500 ka kilo nga pilak kag 35 ka kilo nga bulawan.
Si Eliakim nga isa pa ka anak ni Josia amo ang ginbulos ni Neco nga hari. Gin-ilisan ni Neco ang ngalan ni Eliakim nga Jehoyakim. Si Jehoahaz ya gindala ni Neco sa Egypt kag didto siya napatay.
Ginpabayad ni Haring Haring Jehoyakim sang buhis ang mga taga-Juda suno sa ila manggad, para makabayad siya sang buhis nga ginapabayad ni Faraon Neco.
Nagaedad si Jehoyakim sang 25 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 11 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Zebida nga anak ni Pedaya nga taga-Ruma.
Dayon ginsugo ni Haring Josia Josia si Hilkia nga pangulo nga pari, ang mga pari nga sunod sa rangko ni Hilkia, kag ang mga pari nga nagabantay sa puwertahan sang templo, sa pagkuha sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang tanan nga kagamitan nga ginagamit sa pagsimba kay Baal, kay Ashera, kag sa tanan nga butang sa kalangitan. Ginpasunog niya ini sa guwa sang Jerusalem, sa uma sang Kidron, kag gindala dayon ang abo sa Betel.
Ginpahalin niya sa ila katungdanan ang mga pari nga nagaalagad sa mga dios-dios. Ini nga mga pari gintugyanan sang mga hari sang Juda sa pagsunog sang mga insenso sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar didto sa mga banwa sang Juda kag sa palibot sang Jerusalem. Nagsunog sila sang mga insenso kay Baal kag sa adlaw, bulan, mga bituon, kag sa iban pa nga mga butang sa kalangitan.
Ginpakuha man ni Haring Josia ang hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag gindala sa guwa sang Jerusalem, sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig, kag ginsunog didto. Dayon ginpapudpod niya ini sing mapino kag ginsabwag ang abo sa patyo.
Ginpaguba man niya ang mga balay sang mga lalaki kag babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas, nga ara sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Didto nagatahi ang mga babayi sang mga bayo nga ginagamit sa pagsimba kay Ashera.
Ginpabalik ni Josia sa Jerusalem ang tanan nga pari nga nagaestar sa iban nga mga banwa sang Juda. Gindagtaan niya ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, halin sa Geba hasta sa Beersheba, sa diin nagasunog ang mga pari sang mga insenso. Ginpaguba niya ang mga simbahan sa Puwertahan ni Josue, ang manugdumala sang Jerusalem. Ini nga puwertahan ara sa wala dampi sang puwertahan sang siyudad.
Ang mga pari nga nag-alagad sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar wala gintugutan nga mag-alagad sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem, pero gintugutan sila nga magkaon sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok upod sa iban nga mga pari.
Sang panahon sang paghari ni Jehoyakim, ginsalakay ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia ang Juda kag nangin sakop niya si Jehoyakim sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig. Pero sang ulihi nagrebelde si Jehoyakim kay Nebucadnezar.
Sang panahon sang iya paghari, ang mga opisyal ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia nagsalakay sa Jerusalem, kag ginpalibutan nila ini.
Nagkadto mismo si Nebucadnezar sa Jerusalem samtang ginapalibutan ini sang iya mga tinawo.
Sang ikawalo nga tuig sang paghari ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia, ginbihag niya si Jehoyakin.
Suno sa ginsiling sadto sang Ginoo Ginoo , ginpanguha ni Nebucadnezar ang tanan nga manggad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa palasyo, kag ang tanan nga bulawan nga kagamitan nga ginpahimo ni Haring Solomon sang Israel para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag ginbihag niya ang 10,000 ka pumuluyo sang Jerusalem, lakip na ang tanan nga opisyal kag pinakamaayo nga mga soldado, kag ang tanan nga eksperto nga mga trabahador kag mga platero. Ang mga pinakaimol lang ang nabilin.
Ginbihag ni Nebucadnezar si Jehoyakin sa Babilonia, pati ang iya iloy, mga asawa, mga opisyal kag ang mga dungganon nga mga tawo sa Juda.
Ginbihag man ni Nebucadnezar ang 7,000 ka maisog nga mga soldado kag 1,000 ka eksperto nga mga trabahador kag mga platero nga mga soldado man.
Ang ginbulos niya nga hari amo si Matania nga tiyo ni Jehoyakin. Kag gin-islan niya ang ngalan ni Matania nga Zedekia.
Nagaedad si Zedekia sang 21 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 11 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Hamutal nga anak ni Jeremias nga taga-Libna.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo ni Jehoyakim.
Nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga taga-Babilonia,
Karon, nagrebelde si Zedekia sa hari sang Babilonia.
Natabo gid man ini sa Juda suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , para mapahalin niya sila sa ila lugar palayo sa ila lugar palayo sa iya presensya, tungod sa mga sala nga ginhimo ni Manase,
pati ang iya pagpamatay sang mga inosente nga mga tawo. Ginpaagay niya ang ila dugo sa Jerusalem, kag indi ini mapatawad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehoyakim, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Sang napatay si Jehoyakim, si Jehoyakin nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Wala na nagsalakay liwat ang hari sang Egypt, kay gin-agaw sang hari sang Babilonia ang tanan niya nga teritoryo, halin sa ililigan sang tubig sang Egypt hasta sa Suba sang Euphrates.
Nagaedad si Jehoyakin sang 18 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan. Ang iya iloy amo si Nehusta nga anak ni Elnatan nga taga-Jerusalem.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya amay nga si Jehoyakim.
Gani sang ikasiyam nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia, sang ikanapulo nga adlaw sang ikanapulo nga bulan, nagsalakay si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag ang iya bilog nga soldado sa Jerusalem. Nagkampo sila sa guwa sang siyudad kag naghimo sang mga tore-tore sa palibot sini.
Sa iya nga pagdumala gin-guba sang mga soldado sang Babilonia ang mga pader nga nagapalibot sa Jerusalem.
Kag ginbihag niya ang nabilin nga mga tawo sa siyudad, pati ang mga tawo nga nagdampig sa hari sang Babilonia.
Pero ginbilin niya ang iban sa pinakaimol nga mga tawo para mag-atipan sa talamnan sang mga ubas kag sa mga uma.
Gin-guba sang mga taga-Babilonia ang ini nga mga butang sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo : ang saway nga mga haligi, ang mga karo nga ginagamit sa paghakot sang tubig, kag ang dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga saway nga ginatawag ginatawag Dagat. Kag gindala nila ang mga saway sa Babilonia.
Ginkuha man nila ang mga kalaha, mga pala, mga pang-utod sa pabilo, mga tasa,
Ginkuha man ni Nebuzaradan ang mga bulutangan sang baga, ang mga yahong, kag ang iban pa nga bulawan kag pilak nga mga kagamitan.
Daw halos indi makilo ang mga saway nga halin sa duha ka haligi, sa dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag Dagat, kag sa mga karo nga ginagamit sa paghakot sang tubig. Ini nga mga butang ginpahimo sadto ni Solomon para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang kataason sang kada haligi 27 feet. Ang kataason sang saway nga ulo-ulo sang kada haligi 4 feet kag 6 inches. Ini nga mga ulo-ulo nadekorasyunan sang mga kulokadena nga nagatinabid kag napalibutan sang mga puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata nga saway.
Ginbihag man ni Nebuzaradan si Seraya nga pangulo nga pari, si Zefanias nga sunod sa rangko ni Seraya, kag ang tatlo ka manugbantay sa puwertahan sang templo sang templo .
Kag amo pa gid ini ang iya mga nakita kag ginbihag sa siyudad: ang opisyal sang mga soldado sang Juda, ang lima sa mga manugdumala sang hari, ang kumander nga nagapanguha sa mga tawo nga mangin soldado, kag ang 60 pa ka pumuluyo didto.
Ginpalibutan nila ang siyudad hasta sang ikaonse nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia.
Gindala sila tanan ni Nebuzaradan sa hari sang Babilonia didto sa Ribla,
Gani ang katawhan sang Juda gindala palayo sa ila duta bilang mga bihag.
Ginpili ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia si Gedalia nga anak ni Ahikam kag apo ni Shafan bilang gobernador sang mga tawo nga nabilin sa Juda.
Sang mabatian ini sang mga opisyal sang Juda kag sang ila mga tinawo, nagkadto sila kay Gedalia didto sa Mizpa. Sila amo si Ishmael nga anak ni Netania, si Johanan nga anak ni Karea, si Seraya nga anak ni Tanhumet nga taga-Netofa, si Jaazania nga taga-Maaca, kag ang ila mga tinawo.
Nagsumpa si Gedalia sa ila kag sa ila mga tinawo, “Indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga opisyal sang Babilonia. Mag-estar lang kamo sa sini nga duta kag mag-alagad sa hari sang Babilonia, kag mangin maayo ang tanan sa inyo.”
Pero sang ikapito nga bulan sang sadto nga tuig, sang sadto nga tuig, si Ishmael nga anak ni Netania kag apo ni Elishama, nga miyembro sang harianon nga pamilya, nagkadto sa Mizpa upod sa napulo ka tawo kag ginpatay nila si Gedalia kag ang iya mga kaupod nga mga taga-Juda kag mga taga-Babilonia.
Tungod sini, ang tanan nga tawo halin sa pinakadungganon hasta sa pinakakubos, pati ang mga opisyal sang mga soldado, nagpalagyo sa Egypt kay nahadlok sila kon ano ang himuon sang mga taga-Babilonia.
Sang ika-37 nga tuig sang pagkabihag ni Haring Jehoyakin sang Juda, nangin hari sang Babilonia si Evil Merodac. Ginbuy-an niya si Jehoyakin sang ika-27 nga adlaw sang ika-12 nga bulan sadto nga tuig.
Maayo siya kay Jehoyakin kag ginpadunggan niya siya labaw sang sa iban nga mga hari nga ginbihag man didto sa Babilonia.
Gani wala na nagbayo si Jehoyakin sang bayo nga iya sang priso, kag halin sadto nagakaon siya upod sa hari.
Sang ikasiyam nga adlaw sang ikaapat nga bulan sang amo nga tuig, sang amo nga tuig, puwerte na gid ang gutom sa siyudad kag wala na sing pagkaon ang mga tawo.
Kag kada adlaw ginahatagan siya sang hari sang iya mga kinahanglanon samtang buhi pa siya.
Karon, ginrumpag sang mga taga-Babilonia sang mga taga-Babilonia ang isa ka parte sang pader sang isa ka parte sang pader sang siyudad, gani nagplano si Zedekia kag si Zedekia kag ang tanan niya nga mga soldado sa pagpalagyo. Pero tungod nga napalibutan sang mga taga-Babilonia
pero ginlagas sila sang mga taga-Babilonia kag naabtan sila sa kapatagan sang Jerico. Nagbululag kay Zedekia ang tanan niya nga soldado,
kag nadakpan siya. Gindala siya sa hari sang Babilonia sa Ribla kag didto ginsentensyahan.
Ginpamatay sa iya atubangan ang iya mga anak nga lalaki. Dayon ginlukat ang iya mga mata, ginkadenahan siya, kag gindala sa Babilonia.
Sang ikapito nga adlaw sang ikalima nga bulan, sadtong ika-19 nga tuig sang paghari ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia, nagkadto sa Jerusalem si Nebuzaradan nga kumander sang mga guwardya sang hari sang Babilonia.
Ginsunog niya ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang palasyo sang hari, ang tanan nga balay sa Jerusalem, kag ang tanan nga importante nga mga building.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Ang mga kaliwat ni Adan amo sila ni amo sila ni Set, Enosh,
Patrusnon, Caslunon, kag sang Caftornon
Arvadnon, Zemarnon, kag Hamatnon.
Ang mga anak ni Aram amo sila ni
Si Shela amay ni Eber.
Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared,
Gani amo ini ang mga kaliwat nga halin kay Gani amo ini ang mga kaliwat nga halin kay Shem: si Arfaxad, Shela,
Eber, Peleg, Reu,
Serug, Nahor, Tera,
kag si Abram (nga amo man si Abraham).
Ang mga anak ni Abraham amo si Isaac kag si Ishmael.
Ang mga anak ni Ishmael amo sila ni Nebayot (ang kamagulangan), Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
Enoc, Metusela, Lamec, kag Noe.
Mishma, Duma, Masa, Hadad, Tema,
Sila ang mga anak ni Ishmael.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jokshan amo si Sheba kag si Dedan.
Amo ini sila tanan ang mga kaliwat ni Ketura.
Ang mga anak ni Isaac amo si Esau kag si Israel.
Ang mga anak ni Esau amo sila ni Elifaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, kag Kora.
Ang mga anak ni Elifaz amo sila ni Teman, Omar, Zefo,
Ang mga anak ni Reuel amo sila ni Nahat, Zera, Shama, kag Miza.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Seir amo sila ni Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Ana, Dishon, Ezer, kag Dishan.
Ang mga anak ni Lotan amo si Hori kag si Homam.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Noe amo sila ni amo sila ni Shem, Ham, kag Jafet.
Ang mga anak ni Zibeon amo si Aya kag si Ana.
Ang mga anak ni Dishon amo sila ni Hemdan,
Ang mga anak ni Dishan
Si Bela nga taga-Dinhaba nga anak ni Beor.
Pagkapatay ni Baal Hanan, ginbuslan siya ni Hadad
Oholibama, Elah, Pinon,
Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
Magdiel, kag Iram.
Ang mga anak ni Gomer amo sila ni Ashkenaz, Rifat,
Ang mga anak ni Javan amo sila ni Elisha, Tarshish, Kitim, kag Rodanim.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Cush amo sila ni Seba, Havila, Sabta, Raama, kag Sabteca. Ang mga anak ni Raama amo si Sheba kag si Dedan.
Amo ini sila ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Juda, Isacar, Zebulun,
Si Ram amay ni Aminadab, kag si Aminadab amay ni Nashon nga pangulo sang katawhan sang Juda.
Si Nashon amay ni Salmon,
Si Boaz amay ni Obed, kag si Obed amay ni Jesse.
Ang kamagulangan nga anak ni Jesse amo si Eliab, ang ikaduha si Abinadab, ang ikatatlo si Shimea,
ang ikaapat si Netanel, ang ikalima si Radai,
ang ikaanom si Ozem, kag ang ikapito si David.
Ang ila mga utod nga babayi amo sila ni Zeruya kag Abigail. Si Zeruya may tatlo ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Abishai, Joab, kag Asahel.
Ang bana ni Abigail amo si Jeter nga Ishmaelinhon kag may anak sila nga lalaki nga si Amasa.
Si Caleb nga anak ni Hezron may mga anak sa iya asawa nga si Azuba nga ginatawag man nga Jeriot.
Pagkapatay ni Azuba ginpangasawa ni Caleb si Efrat
Dan, Jose, Benjamin, Naftali, Gad, kag Asher.
Si Hur amay ni Uri, kag si Uri amay ni Bezalel.
Sang nagaedad si Hezron sang 60 ka tuig, ginpangasawa niya ang anak ni Makir, ang utod nga babayi ni Gilead. May anak sila nga si Segub.
Si Segub amay ni Jair, nga nagdumala sang 23 ka banwa sa Gilead.
(Pero sang ulihi gin-agaw ni Geshur kag ni Aram ang mga banwa ni Jair
Wala lang dugay nga napatay si Hezron sa Caleb Efrata sang nagbata ang iya asawa nga si Abia. Ang ila bata amo si Ashur nga amay ni Tekoa.
Amo ini sila ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jerameel nga kamagulangan ni Hezron: Si Ram nga kamagulangan, sunod si Buna, Oren, Ozem, kag Ahia.
Si Jerameel may isa pa ka asawa nga ang ngalan si Atara. Siya ang iloy ni Onam.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Ram nga kamagulangan ni Jerameel amo sila ni Maaz, Jamin, kag Eker.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Onam amo si Shamai kag si Jada. Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Shamai amo si Nadab kag Abishur.
Ang ngalan sang asawa ni Abishur amo si Abihail. May mga anak sila nga lalaki nga lalaki nga amo si Aban kag si Molid.
May tatlo ka anak nga lalaki si Juda sa iya asawa nga si Batshua nga Canaanhon. Sila amo si Er, Onan, kag Shela. Si Er amo ang kamagulangan. Malain siya sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani ginpatay siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Nadab amo si Seled kag si Apaim. Napatay si Seled nga wala sing bata.
Ang anak nga lalaki ni Apaim amo si Ishi. Si Ishi amay ni Sheshan, kag si Sheshan amay ni Alai.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jada nga utod ni Shamai amo si Jeter kag si Jonatan. Napatay si Jeter nga wala sing bata.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jonatan amo si Pelet kag Zaza. Ini sila ang mga kaliwat ni Jerameel.
Si Sheshan wala sing anak nga mga lalaki kundi mga babayi lang. May suluguon siya nga Egyptohanon nga ang ngalan si Jarha.
Ginpaasawa ni Sheshan kay Jarha ang isa sa iya mga anak nga babayi, kag sang ulihi may anak sila nga lalaki nga si Atai.
Si Atai amay ni Natan, si Natan amay ni Zabad,
kag si Zabad amay ni Eflal. Si Eflal amay ni Obed,
si Obed amay ni Jehu, kag si Jehu amay ni Azaria.
Si Azaria amay ni Helez, si Helez amay ni Eleasa,
May mga anak pa nga lalaki si Juda kay Tamar nga iya umagad. Sila amo si Perez kag si Zera. Lima tanan ang anak ni Juda nga lalaki.
kag si Eleasa amay ni Sismai. Si Sismai amay ni Shalum,
si Shalum amay ni Jekamia, kag si Jekamia amay ni Elishama.
Ang kamagulangan nga anak nga lalaki ni Caleb nga utod ni Jerameel amo si Mesha nga amay ni Zif. Ang ikaduha niya nga anak amo si Maresha nga amay ni Hebron.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Hebron amo sila ni Kora, Tapua, Rekem, kag Shema.
Si Shema amay ni Raham, kag si Raham amay ni Jorkeam. Si Rekem amay ni Shamai,
si Shamai amay ni Maon, kag si Maon amay ni Bet Zur.
Ang isa pa ka asawa ni Caleb amo si Efa nga iloy nila ni Haran, Moza, kag Gazez. Si Haran may anak nga si Gazez man ang ngalan man ang ngalan .
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jahdai amo sila ni Regem, Jotam, Geshan, Pelet, Efa, kag Shaaf.
Ang isa pa gid ka asawa ni Caleb amo si Maaca. May mga anak sila nga lalaki nga sila ni Sheber, Tirhana,
Shaaf (nga amay ni Madmana), kag Sheva (nga amay ni Macbena kag ni Gibea). Ang anak nga babayi ni Caleb amo si Acsa.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Perez amo si Hezron kag si Hamul.
Si Hur ang kamagulangan nga anak ni Caleb kag ni Caleb kag ni Efrata. Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Hur amo sila ni Shobal nga amay ni Kiriat Jearim,
si Salma nga amay ni Betlehem, kag si Haref nga amay ni Bet Gader.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Shobal nga amay ni Kiriat Jearim amo ang mga katawhan sang Haroe, ang katunga sang mga pumuluyo sang Menuhot
kag ang mga lahi ni Kiriat Jearim nga amo ang mga Itranon, Puthanon, Shumatnon kag Mishranon. Sila ang ginhalinan sang mga Zoratnon kag mga Eshtaolinhon.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Salma amo ang mga taga-Betlehem, ang mga taga-Netofa, ang mga taga-Atrot Bet Joab, ang katunga sang mga Manahatnon, ang mga Zorhanon,
kag ang mga lahi sang mga eksperto sa pagsulat sang mga dokumento nga nagaestar sa banwa sang Jabez nga amo ang mga Tiratnon, Shimeatnon, kag Sucatnon. Amo ini sila ang mga Kenhanon nga naghalin kay Hammat, nga nagpundar sang Bet Recab.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Zera amo sila ni Zimri, Etan, Heman, Calcol, kag Darda
Ang anak nga lalaki ni Carmi
Ang anak nga lalaki ni Etan amo si Azaria.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Hezron amo sila ni Jerameel, Ram, kag Caleb.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni David nga nagkalatawo sa Hebron: Ang kamagulangan amo si Amnon nga anak niya kay Ahinoam nga taga-Jezreel. Ang ikaduha amo si Daniel
Amo ini ang mga kaliwat ni Solomon nga nangin hari nga nangin hari : Rehoboam, Abia, Asa, Jehoshafat,
Ahaz, Hezekia, Manase,
Amon, kag Josia.
Amo ini sila ang mga anak ni Josia: ang kamagulangan si Johanan, ang ikaduha si Jehoyakim, ang ikatatlo si Zedekia, kag ang ikaapat si Shalum.
Ang nagbulos kay Jehoyakim bilang hari amo si Jehoyakin
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jehoyakin, ang hari nga hari nga ginbihag sa Babilonia sa Babilonia : si Shealtiel,
Malkiram, Pedaya, Shenazar, Jekamia, Hoshama, kag si Nedabia.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Pedaya amo si Zerubabel kag si Shimei. Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Zerubabel amo si Meshulam kag si Hanania. Ang ila utod nga babayi amo si Shelomit.
Ang ikatatlo amo si Absalom nga anak niya kay Maaca nga anak ni Haring Talmai sang Geshur. Ang ikaapat amo si Adonia nga anak niya kay Hagit.
May lima pa ka anak nga lalaki si Zerubabel nga amo pa ka anak nga lalaki si Zerubabel nga amo sila ni Hashuba, Ohel, Berekia, Hasadia, kag Jushab Hesed.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Hanania amo si Pelatia kag si Jeshaya. Si Jeshaya amay ni Refaya, si Refaya amay ni Arnan, si Arnan amay ni Obadias, kag si Obadias amay ni Shecania.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Shecania amo si Shemaya kag ang mga anak ni Shemaya nga sila ni Hatush, Igal, Baria, Nearia, kag Shafat—anom sila tanan.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Nearia amo sila ni Elioenai, Hizkia, kag Azrikam—tatlo sila tanan.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Elioenai amo sila ni Hodavia, Eliashib, Pelaya, Akub, Johanan, Delaya, kag Anani—pito sila tanan.
Ang ikalima amo si Shefatia nga anak niya kay Abital. Kag ang ikaanom amo si Itream nga anak niya kay Egla.
Naghari si David sa Jerusalem sa sulod sang 33 ka tuig.
Kag amo ini ang iya mga anak nga natawo didto: si Shimea, Shobab, Natan, kag Solomon. Ini sila nga apat anak ni David kay Batsheba
May siyam pa gid siya ka anak nga amo sila ni Ibhar, Elishua,
Noga, Nefeg, Jafia,
Amo ini sila ang mga anak nga lalaki ni David, luwas sa iban pa niya nga mga anak nga lalaki sa iban pa niya nga mga asawa. May anak man si David nga babayi nga si Tamar.
Amo ini ang iban pa nga iban pa nga mga kaliwat ni Juda: si Perez, Hezron, Carmi, Hur, kag Shobal.
Nagpangamuyo si Jabez sa Dios sang Israel, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon mo ako kag palaparon ang akon teritoryo. Updi ako kag ilikaw sa mga katalagman para indi ako masakitan.” Kag ginsabat sang Dios ang iya pangabay.
Si Kelub nga utod ni Shuha amay ni Mehir. Si Mehir amay ni Eshton, kag
si Eshton amay ni Bet Rafa, Pasea, kag ni Tehina. Si Tehina amay ni Irnahash. Sila ang mga kaliwat ni Reca.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Kenaz amo si Otniel kag si Seraya. Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Otniel amo si Hatat kag si Meonotai.
Si Meonotai amay ni Ofra. Si Seraya amay ni Joab, ang nagpundar sang Pulopatag sang mga Panday.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Caleb nga anak ni Jefune: si Iru, Elah, kag Naam. Ang anak nga lalaki ni Elah amo si Kenaz.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jehalelel amo sila ni Zif, Zifa, Tiria, kag Asarel.
Ginpangasawa ni Hodia ang utod ni Naham. Ang isa sa ila mga anak amo ang amay ni Keila nga Garminhon, kag ang isa amo ang amay ni Eshtemoa nga Maacatnon.
Ang anak ni Shobal nga si Reaya amo ang amay ni Jahat. Si Jahat amo ang amay ni Ahumai kag ni Lahad. Sila ang mga pamilya sang mga Zoratnon.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Shimon amo sila ni Amnon, Rina, Ben Hanan, kag Tilon. Ang mga kaliwat ni Ishi amo si Zohet kag si Ben Zohet.
Amo ini ang mga kaliwat ni Shela nga anak ni Juda: si Er (nga amay ni Leca), si Laada (nga amay ni Maresha), kag ang mga pamilya sang mga manug-obra sang maayo nga klase nga linen sa Bet Ashbea.
Mga kaliwat man ni Shela Mga kaliwat man ni Shela si Jokim, ang katawhan sang Cozeba, si Joash, kag si Saraf nga nagdumala sa Moab kag Jashubi Lehem. (Ini nga lista halin sa dokumento nga dugay na.)
Sila ang mga manughimo sang kolon nga nagaestar sa Netaim kag Gedera. Nagaobra sila para sa hari.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Simeon amo sila ni Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zera, kag Shaul.
Si Shaul amay ni Shalum, si Shalum amay ni Mibsam, kag si Mibsam amay ni Mishma.
Si Mishma amay ni Hamuel, si Hamuel amay ni Zacur, kag si Zacur amay ni Shimei.
May 16 ka anak nga lalaki si Shimei kag anom ka anak nga babayi. Pero ang iya mga utod diutay lang ang ila mga bata, gani ang ila bilog nga tribo indi pareho kadamo sa katawhan sang Juda.
Nag-estar sila sa Beersheba, Molada, Hazar Shual,
Bilha, Ezem, Tolad,
Amo ini ang mga anak
Betuel, Horma, Ziklag,
Bet Marcabot, Hazar Susim, Bet Biri, kag Shaaraim. Amo ini ang ila mga banwa hasta sang paghari ni David.
Nag-estar man sila sa lima ka banwa: sa Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Token, kag Ashan,
Amo ini ang iban pa nga mga kaliwat ni Simeon Amo ini ang iban pa nga mga kaliwat ni Simeon :
si Meshobab, Jamlec, Josha (nga anak ni Amazia),
Joel, Jehu (nga anak ni Joshibia kag apo ni Seraya, kag apo sa tuhod ni Asiel),
Elioenai, Jaakoba, Jeshohaya, Asaya, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaya,
kag Ziza (nga anak ni Shifi kag apo ni Alon, kag apo sa tuhod ni Jedaya. Ining si Jedaya anak ni Shimri kag apo ni Shemaya).
Ini sila mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya. Nagdamo gid ang ila mga pamilya,
gani naglapta sila hasta sa lugar sang Gedor, sa east sang pulopatag. Nagpangita sila didto sang palahalban
Si Penuel ang amay ni Gedor, kag si Ezer ang amay ni Husha. Ini sila mga kaliwat ni Hur, ang kamagulangan nga anak ni Efrata. Si Hur amo ang katigulangan sang mga taga-Betlehem.
kag nakakita sila sang madabong kag maayo nga palahalban. Malapad ini nga lugar kag malinong. Didto sang una nag-estar ang iban nga mga kaliwat ni Ham.
Pero sang panahon nga si Hezekia ang hari sang Juda, ginsalakay ang mga kaliwat ni Ham sang mga kaliwat ni Simeon nga ang ila mga ngalan nasambit sa ibabaw. Ginsalakay man nila ang mga Meunhon nga didto man nagaestar, kag ginlaglag nila sila sing bug-os.
Ang 500 sa ila nagsalakay sa kabukiran sang Seir. Ginpanguluhan sila ni Pelatia, Nearia, Refaya kag Uziel, nga mga anak ni Ishi.
Ginpatay nila didto ang nabilin nga mga Amaleknon, kag didto sila nag-estar hasta subong.
Si Ashur nga amay ni Tekoa may duha ka asawa, si Hela kag si Naara.
Amo ini sila ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Naara kag ni Ashur: Ahuzam, Hefer, Temeni, kag Haahashtari.
Ang mga anak ya ni Hela kag ni Ashur kag ni Ashur amo sila ni Zeret, Izhar,
kag Koz. Si Koz nga ini amay ni Anub kag ni Hazobeba, kag siya ang ginhalinan sang pamilya ni Aharhel nga anak ni Harum.
May isa ka tawo nga ang iya ngalan ang iya ngalan si Jabez. Dungganon siya nga tawo sang sa iya mga utod nga lalaki. Gin-ngalanan siya sang iya iloy nga Jabez
Si Reuben amo ang kamagulangan nga anak ni Israel,
Sang si Saul ang hari, nagpakig-away sila sa mga Hagarnon kag napierdi nila ini. Ginsakop nila ang mga ginaestaran sang mga Hagarnon sa bilog nga east sang Gilead.
Nag-estar ang mga kaliwat ni Gad sa kadutaan sang Bashan nga sunod sa kadutaan nila ni Reuben, hasta sa Saleca.
Amo ini ang mga kaliwat ni Gad: Amo ini ang mga kaliwat ni Gad: si Joel, nga amo ang pangulo sa Bashan, ang sunod sa iya amo si Shafam, dayon si Janai kag si Shafat.
Ang ila mga paryente suno sa kada pamilya amo sila ni Micael, Meshulam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia, kag Eber—pito sila tanan.
Sila ang mga kaliwat ni Abihail nga anak ni Huri. Ining si Huri anak ni Jaroa kag apo ni Gilead, kag apo sa tuhod ni Micael. Ining si Micael anak ni Jeshishai kag apo ni Jado, kag apo sa tuhod ni Buz.
Si Ahi nga anak ni Abdiel kag apo ni Guni amo ang pangulo sang ila mga pamilya.
Nag-estar sila sa Gilead didto sa Bashan kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sini, kag sa bilog nga palahalban sang Sharon.
Ini sila tanan nalista sa listahan sang mga kaliwat sadtong tion sang paghari ni Jotam sa Juda kag ni Jeroboam sa Israel.
May 44,760 ka soldado sa tribo ni Reuben, Gad, kag sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase. Ginhanas sila para sa inaway kag maayo sila maggamit sang mga taming, espada, kag pana.
Nagpakig-away sila sa mga Hagarnon, Jeturnon, Nafishnon, kag Nodabnon.
Kag bisan gamhanan si Juda sang sa iya mga utod kag ang pangulo naghalin sa iya tribo tribo , ang kinamatarong bilang kamagulangan ginhatag kay Jose.
Nagpangayo sila sang bulig sa Dios sang nagpakig-away sila, kag ginsabat sang Dios ang ila pangamuyo tungod kay nagsalig sila sa iya. Gani ginpadaog sila sang Dios sa mga Hagarnon kag sa tanan nga kadampig sini.
Ginpanguha nila ang kasapatan sang mga Hagarnon: 50,000 ka camel, 250,000 ka karnero, kag 2,000 ka donkey. Ginbihag man nila ang 100,000 ka tawo,
kag madamo ang ila ginpamatay tungod kay ginbuligan sila sang Dios sa pagpakig-away. Kag gin-estaran nila ang mga lugar sini hasta sang ginbihag sila.
Madamo gid ang katunga nga tribo ni Manase. Nag-estar sila sa kadutaan halin sa Bashan pakadto sa Baal Hermon, Senir, kag Bukid sang Hermon.
Amo ini ang mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya: si Efer, Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremias, Hodavia, kag Jadiel. Mga maayo sila nga mga soldado kag bantog nga mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya.
Pero indi sila matutom sa Dios sang ila mga katigulangan kundi nagsimba sila sa mga dios sang mga katawhan nga ginlaglag sang Dios sa sadto nga duta.
Amo ina kon ngaa ginbuot sang Dios sang Israel nga salakayon sila ni Haring Pul sang Assyria (nga amo man si Tiglat Pileser). Ginbihag ni Pul ang mga tribo ni Reuben, Gad kag katunga sang tribo ni Manase kag gindala sa Hala, Habor, Hara, kag sa Suba sang Gozan, nga sa diin didto sila hasta subong.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Reuben nga kamagulangan ni Israel: si Hanoc, Palu, Hezron, kag Carmi.
Amo ini ang mga kaliwat ni Joel: si Shemaya, Gog, Shimei,
Micas, Reaya, Baal,
kag Beera. Si Beera ang pangulo sang mga kaliwat ni Reuben sang ginbihag sila ni Haring Tiglat Pileser
Amo ini ang mga paryente ni Beera nga nalista sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat suno sa ila tribo: si Jiel (ang pangulo), si Zacarias,
kag si Bela nga anak ni Azaz. Ining si Azaz anak ni Shema, kag apo ni Joel. Ini nga mga kaliwat ni Reuben nga mga kaliwat ni Reuben nag-estar sa lugar halin sa Aroer hasta sa Nebo kag Baal Meon.
Kag tungod kay nagdamo ang ila kasapatan didto sa Gilead, nag-estar sila hasta sa east, sa higad sang desierto pakadto sa Suba sang Euphrates.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Levi: si Gershon,
Si Johanan amay ni Azaria nga amo ang pangulo nga pangulo nga pari sa templo nga ginpatindog ni Solomon sa Jerusalem.
Si Azaria amay ni Amaria, si Amaria amay ni Ahitub,
kag si Ahitub amay ni Zadok. Si Zadok amay ni Shalum,
si Shalum amay ni Hilkia, kag si Hilkia amay ni Azaria.
Si Azaria amay ni Seraya, kag si Seraya amay ni Jehozadak.
Si Jehozadak nga ini naupod sa mga bihag sang ginpabihag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem kay Nebucadnezar.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Levi amo sila ni Gershon, Kohat, kag Merari.
Amo ini ang mga pamilya sang mga Levita nga ginlista suno sa ila mga katigulangan:
Sa mga kaliwat ni Gershon: Libni, Jahat, Zima,
Joa, Iddo, Zera, kag Jeaterai.
Sa mga kaliwat ni Kohat: Aminadab, Kora, Asir,
Tahat, Uriel, Uzia, kag Shaul.
Sa mga kaliwat ni Elkana: Amasai, Ahimot,
Elkana, Zofai, Nahat,
Eliab, Jeroham, Elkana, kag Samuel.
Ang mga anak ni Samuel amo si Joel,
Sa mga kaliwat ni Merari: Mali, Libni, Shimei, Uza,
Ang mga anak ni Amram amo sila ni Aaron, Moises, kag Miriam. Ang mga anak ni Aaron amo sila ni Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, kag Itamar.
Shimea, Haggia, kag Asaya.
May mga tawo nga gintugyanan ni David sa pagkanta kag pagtukar sa balay sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tapos masaylo didto ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan .
Nag-alagad sila paagi sa pagkanta didto sa Tolda nga Simbahan ( nga ginatawag man nga nga ginatawag man nga Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan), hasta sa tion nga napatindog ni Solomon ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem. Ginhimo nila ang ila buluhaton suno sa mga pagsulundan nga ginpatuman sa ila.
Si Heman nga musikero nga kaliwat ni Kohat. (Si Heman anak ni Joel. Si Joel anak ni Samuel. Si Samuel anak ni Elkana.
Si Elkana anak ni Jeroham. Si Jeroham anak ni Eliel. Si Eliel anak ni Toa.
Si Toa anak ni Zuf. Si Zuf anak ni Elkana. Si Elkana anak ni Mahat. Si Mahat anak ni Amasai.
Si Amasai anak ni Elkana. Si Elkana anak ni Joel. Si Joel anak ni Azaria. Si Azaria anak ni Zefanias.
Si Zefanias anak ni Tahat. Si Tahat anak ni Asir. Si Asir anak ni Ebiasaf. Si Ebiasaf anak ni Kora.
Si Kora anak ni Izhar. Si Izhar anak ni Kohat. Si Kohat anak ni Levi. Si Levi anak ni Israel.)
Si Asaf nga kaliwat ni Gershon nga kaliwat ni Gershon . Siya ang primero nga kabulig ni Heman. (Si Asaf anak ni Berekia. Si Berekia anak ni Shimea.
Si Eleazar amay ni Finehas, si Finehas amay ni Abishua,
Si Shimea anak ni Micael. Si Micael anak ni Baasea. Si Baasea anak ni Malkia.
Si Malkia anak ni Etni. Si Etni anak ni Zera. Si Zera anak ni Adaya.
Si Adaya anak ni Etan. Si Etan anak ni Zima. Si Zima anak ni Shimei.
Si Shimei anak ni Jahat. Si Jahat anak ni Gershon. Si Gershon anak ni Levi.)
Si Etan nga kaliwat ni Merari. Siya ang ikaduha nga kabulig ni Heman. (Si Etan anak ni Kishi. Si Kishi anak ni Abdi. Si Abdi anak ni Maluc.
Si Maluc anak ni Hashabia. Si Hashabia anak ni Amazia. Si Amazia anak ni Hilkia.
Si Hilkia anak ni Amzi. Si Amzi anak ni Bani. Si Bani anak ni Shemer.
Si Shemer anak ni Mali. Si Mali anak ni Mushi. Si Mushi anak ni Merari. Kag si Merari anak ni Levi.)
Ang ila kapareho nga mga Levita ginhatagan sang iban nga mga buluhaton sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, ang balay sang Dios.
Pero si Aaron kag ang iya mga kaliwat amo lang ang ginhimo nga mga pari amo lang ang ginhimo nga mga pari . Sila ang nagahalad sa halaran sang halad nga ginasunog kag sa halaran nga sulunugan sang insenso. Kag sila man ang nagahimo sang iban pa nga buluhaton nga may kaangtanan sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar. Nagahalad sila para matubos ang mga Israelinhon sa ila mga sala. Ginahimo nila ini suno sa tanan nga ginsugo ni Moises nga alagad sang Dios.
kag si Abishua amay ni Buki. Si Buki amay ni Uzi,
Amo ini ang mga kaliwat ni Aaron: si Eleazar, Finehas, Abishua,
Buki, Uzi, Zerahia,
Merayot, Amaria, Ahitub,
Zadok, kag Ahimaaz.
Amo ini ang mga lugar nga ginhatag sa mga kaliwat ni Aaron nga halin sa lahi ni Kohat. Sila ang una nga ginhatagan sang duta paagi sa paggabot-gabot.
Lakip sa sini nga mga lugar amo ang Hebron sa Juda kag ang mga palahalban sa palibot sini.
Pero ang mga kaumahan kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sang Hebron ginhatag kay Caleb nga anak ni Jefune.
si Uzi amay ni Zerahia, kag si Zerahia amay ni Merayot.
Kag halin sa duta sang tribo ni Benjamin ginhatag sa ila ang Gibeon,
Ang nabilin nga mga kaliwat ni Kohat ginhatagan sang 10 ka banwa paagi sa paggabot-gabot halin sa kadutaan sang katunga nga tribo ni Manase.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Gershon, suno sa kada pamilya, ginhatagan sang 13 ka banwa halin sa mga tribo ni Isacar, Asher, Naftali, kag halin sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase sa Bashan.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Merari, suno sa kada pamilya, ginhatagan sang 12 ka banwa halin sa tribo ni Reuben, Gad, kag Zebulun.
Gani ginhatag sang mga Israelinhon sa mga kaliwat ni Levi ang ini nga mga banwa kag ang mga palahalban sini.
Ginhatag sa ila paagi sa paggabot-gabot ang nasambit na nga mga banwa nga halin sa tribo ni Juda, Simeon, kag Benjamin.
Ang iban nga mga kaliwat ni Kohat ginhatagan sang mga banwa halin sa tribo ni Efraim.
Ginhatag sa ila ang Shekem (ang dalangpan nga banwa sa kabukiran sang Efraim), Gezer,
Jokmeam, Bet Horon,
Ayalon, kag Gat Rimon, pati na ang mga palahalban sini.
Si Merayot amay ni Amaria, si Amaria amay ni Ahitub,
Ang iban pa gid nga kaliwat ni Kohat ginhatagan sang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon sang mga banwa halin sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase. Ang ginhatag sa ila amo ang Aner kag Bileam pati ang mga palahalban sini.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Gershon ginhatagan sang masunod nga mga banwa: Halin sa katunga sang tribo ni Manase: Golan sa Bashan kag ang Ashtarot, pati ang mga palahalban sini.
Halin sa tribo ni Isacar: Kedesh, Daberat,
Ramot, kag Anem, pati ang mga palahalban sini.
Halin sa tribo ni Asher: Mashal, Abdon,
Hukok, kag Rehob, pati ang mga palahalban sini.
Halin sa tribo ni Naftali: Kedesh sa Galilea, Hamon, kag Kiriataim, pati ang mga palahalban sini.
Ang nabilin nga mga kaliwat ni Merari ginhatagan sang masunod nga kadutaan: Halin sa tribo ni Zebulun: Jokneam, Karta,
Halin sa tribo ni Reuben sa tabok sang Suba sang Jordan sa east sang Jerico: Bezer sa may desierto, Jaza,
Kedemot, kag Mefaat, pati ang mga palahalban sini.
kag si Ahitub amay ni Zadok. Si Zadok amay ni Ahimaaz,
Kag halin sa tribo ni Gad: Ramot sa Gilead, Mahanaim,
Heshbon, kag Jazer, pati ang mga palahalban sini.
si Ahimaaz amay ni Azaria, kag si Azaria amay ni Johanan.
Si Isacar may apat ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Tola, Pua, Jashub, kag Shimron.
Ang anak ni Jediel amo si Bilhan. Ang mga anak ni Bilhan amo sila ni Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Kenaana, Zetan, Tarshish, kag Ahishahar.
Ini sila mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya. May 17,200 sila ka maayo nga mga soldado nga handa sa pagserbisyo sa militar.
Ang mga anak ni Ir amo sila ni Shupim kag Hupim,
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Naftali kay Bilha amo sila ni Jaziel,
Si Manase may duha ka duha ka anak sa iya asawa nga Arameanhon. Sila amo si Asriel kag si Makir. Si Makir amay ni Gilead,
kag si Makir ang nagpangita sang asawa para kay Hupim kag kay Shupim.
May mga anak man nga lalaki si Makir kay Maaca. Ang ngalan sang ila mga anak amo si Peresh kag si Sheresh. Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Peresh amo si Ulam kag si Rakem.
Ang anak nga lalaki ni Ulam amo si Bedan. Amo ini sila ang mga kaliwat ni Gilead nga anak ni Makir kag apo ni Manase.
Ang utod nga babayi ni Gilead
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Shemida amo sila ni Ahian, Shekem, Likhi, kag Aniam.
Ang mga anak ni Tola amo sila ni Uzi, Refaya, Jeriel, Jamai, Ibsam, kag Shemuel.
Amo ini ang mga kaliwat ni Efraim: Shutela, Bered, Tahat, Eleada, Tahat,
Zabad, kag Shutela. Ang mga anak ni Efraim nga si Ezer kag si Elead ginpatay sang mga tumandok sang Gat, sang nagpangawat sila sang ila kasapatan.
Dugay gid nga nagpangasubo si Efraim sa ila pagkapatay, kag nagkadto ang iya mga paryente sa paglipay sa iya.
Sang ulihi naghulid si Efraim sa iya asawa kag nagbusong ini kag nagbata sing lalaki. Gin-ngalanan ni Efraim ang bata nga Beria,
May anak nga babayi si Efraim nga si Sheera. Ini siya amo ang nagtukod sang idalom kag ibabaw nga parte sang Bet Horon kag sang Uzen Sheera.
May mga kaliwat pa si Efraim nga sila ni Refa, Reshef, Tela, Tahan,
Ladan, Amihud, Elishama,
Nun, kag Josue.
Ang mga duta nga nabaton kag ginaestaran sang mga kaliwat ni Efraim amo ang Betel kag ang palibot sini nga mga baryo, ang Naaran sa east, ang Gezer sa west kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sini, ang Shekem kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sini pakadto sa Aya kag sa mga baryo sini.
Amo ato ang mga banwa nga gin-estaran sang mga kaliwat ni Jose nga anak ni Israel.
Ang anak nga lalaki ni Uzi amo si Izrahia. Si Izrahia kag ang iya apat ka anak nga sila ni Micael, Obadias, Joel, kag Ishia mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya sang ila mga pamilya .
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Asher amo sila ni Imna, Ishva, Ishvi, kag Beria. Ang ila utod nga babayi amo si Sera.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Beria amo si Heber kag si Malkiel. Si Malkiel amay ni Birzait.
Si Heber amay nila ni Jaflet, Shomer, kag Hotam. Ang ila utod nga babayi amo si Shua.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jaflet amo sila ni Pasac, Bimhal, kag Ashvat.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Shomer amo sila ni Ahi, Roga,
Ang mga anak nga lalaki sang utod ni Shomer nga si Helem
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Zofa amo sila ni Sua, Harnefer, Shual, Beri, Imra,
Bezer, Hod, Shama, Shilsha, Itran,
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Jeter amo sila ni Jefune, Pispa, kag Ara.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Ula amo sila ni Ara, Haniel, kag Rizia.
Madamo sila sang asawa kag mga anak, gani suno sa lista sang ila mga kaliwat, may ara sila sang 36,000 ka lalaki nga handa sa pagserbisyo sa militar.
Sila tanan ang mga kaliwat ni Asher nga mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya. Maayo sila nga mga soldado kag bantog nga mga lider. Ang kadamuon sang mga lalaki nga kaliwat ni Asher nga handa sa pagserbisyo sa militar 26,000, suno sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat.
Ang kadamuon sang maayo nga mga soldado halin sa tanan nga pamilya ni Isacar 87,000, suno sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat.
Si Benjamin may tatlo ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Bela, Beker, kag Jediel.
Si Bela may lima ka anak nga sila ni Ezbon, Uzi, Uziel, Jerimot, kag Iri. Mga pangulo sila sang ila mga pamilya. Ang kadamuon sang ila maayo nga mga soldado 22,034, suno sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat.
Ang mga anak ni Beker amo sila ni Zemira, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremot, Abia, Anatot, kag Alemet. Sila tanan ang mga anak ni Beker.
Ang kadamuon sang ila maayo nga mga soldado 20,200. Ini sila kag ang mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya nalista sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat.
Amo ini ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Benjamin halin sa kamagulangan hasta sa kamanghuran: Bela, Ashbel, Ahara,
Jeuz, Sakia, kag Mirma. Ini sila nangin pangulo sang ila mga pamilya.
May anak man si Shaharaim sa asawa niya nga si Hushim. Sila amo si Abitub kag si Elpaal.
Ang mga anak ni Elpaal amo sila ni Eber, Misham, Shemed (nga nagtukod sang mga banwa sang mga banwa sang Ono kag Lod, kag sang mga baryo sa palibot sini),
Beria, kag Shema. Sila ang mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya nga nag-estar sa Ayalon. Sila man ang nagpahalin sang mga pumuluyo sang Gat.
Noha, kag Rafa.
Ini sila mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya suno sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat, kag nag-estar sila sa Jerusalem.
Ang mga anak ni Bela amo sila ni Addar, Gera, Abihud,
Ang iya mga anak nga lalaki halin sa kamagulangan hasta sa kamanghuran amo sila ni Abdon, Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner,
Gedor, Ahio, Zeker,
kag Miklot (nga amay ni Shimea).
Si Ner amay ni Kish, si Kish amay ni Saul, kag si Saul amay nila ni Jonatan, Malkishua, Abinadab, kag Eshbaal.
Ang anak ni Jonatan amo si Merib Baal
Ang mga anak ni Micas amo sila ni Piton, Melec, Tarea, kag Ahaz.
Si Ahaz amay ni Jehoada,
kag si Moza amay ni Binea. Ang anak ni Binea amo si Rafa,
Si Azel may anom ka anak nga sila ni Azrikam, Bokeru, Ishmael, Shearia, Obadias, kag Hanan.
Ang mga anak sang utod ni Azel nga si Eshek amo sila ni Ulam ang kamagulangan, Jeush ang ikaduha, kag Elifelet ang ikatatlo.
Abishua, Naaman, Ahoa,
Ini sila tanan mga kaliwat ni Benjamin.
Gera, Shefufan, kag Huram.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Ehud, nga mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya, ginpahalin sa Geba kag nagsaylo sila sa Manahat.
Sila amo si Naaman, Ahia, kag Gera. Ining si Gera nga amay ni Uza kag ni Ahihud amo ang nagpanguna sa ila sa pagsaylo.
Ginbulagan ni Shaharaim ang iya mga asawa nga si Hushim kag si Baara. Sang ulihi nag-estar siya sa Moab, kag nakabata sila
sang iya asawa nga si Hodesh. Ang ila mga anak nga lalaki amo sila ni Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
Ang tanan nga Israelinhon nalista sa listahan sang mga kaliwat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel. Ginbihag ang katawhan sang Juda sa Babilonia tungod kay indi sila matutom sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
si Jedaya, Jehoyarib, Jakin,
si Azaria nga pinakamataas nga opisyal sa templo sang Dios (anak siya ni Hilkia; si Hilkia anak ni Meshulam; si Meshulam anak ni Zadok; si Zadok anak ni Merayot; si Merayot anak ni Ahitub),
kag si Maasai nga anak ni Adiel (si Adiel anak ni Jazera; si Jazera anak ni Meshulam; si Meshulam anak ni Meshilemit; si Meshilemit anak ni Imer).
1,760 tanan ka pari ang nakabalik ang nakabalik . Mga pangulo sila sang ila mga pamilya, kag maayo sila nga mga pangulo. Sila ang gintugyanan sa pag-alagad sa templo sang Dios.
si Shemaya nga anak ni Hashub (si Hashub anak ni Azrikam; si Azrikam anak ni Hashabia nga kaliwat ni Merari),
si Bakbakar, Heresh, Galal, Matania (si Matania anak ni Mica; si Mica anak ni Zicri; si Zicri anak ni Asaf),
kag si Berekia nga anak ni Asa kag apo ni Elkana, nga nag-estar sa mga baryo sang mga Netofanhon.
Si Shalum ang ila pangulo.
Hasta subong sila ang mga guwardya sang Puwertahan sang Hari sa east sang siyudad sang siyudad . Sila sadto ang mga guwardya sa puwertahan nga pasulod sa kampo sang mga kaliwat ni Levi.
Si Shalum anak ni Kore kag apo ni Ebiasaf,
Karon, ang una nga nakabalik sa ila mga banwa sa ila kaugalingon nga duta amo ang ordinaryo nga mga Israelinhon, mga pari, mga Levita, kag mga suluguon sa templo.
Sang una si Finehas nga anak ni Eleazar amo ang nagadumala sa mga guwardya sang puwertahan, kag gin-updan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Si Zacarias nga anak ni Meshelemia guwardya man man sa puwertahan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan.
Ang mga guwardya sang puwertahan 212 tanan, kag ginlista sila suno sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat sa ila mga baryo. Ang naghatag sang katungdanan sa ila mga katigulangan bilang mga guwardya sang puwertahan (tungod kay masaligan sila) amo si David kag si Samuel nga propeta.
Ini nga mga guwardya kag ang ila mga kaliwat amo ang gintugyanan sa pagguwardya sa mga puwertahan sang balay sang Ginoo Ginoo —nga gintawag man nga Tolda.
Nagabantay sila sa apat ka kilid: sa east, west, north, kag south.
Kon kaisa ang ila mga paryente nga nagaestar sa mga baryo nagabulos sa ila sa pagbantay sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Pero ang apat ka pangulo nga mga guwardya, nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, amo ang responsable sa mga kuwarto kag sa mga bodega sang templo.
Nagapulaw sila sa pagbantay sa palibot sang templo kay kinahanglan gid nila ini nga bantayan kag abrihan kada aga.
Ang iban sa ila amo ang gintugyanan sa pagtatap sang mga kagamitan nga ginagamit sa pagsimba. Ginaisip nila ini kon ila gamiton kag ginaisip liwat pagkatapos gamiton.
Ang iban gintugyanan sa pagtatap sang iban pa nga mga kagamitan sa templo pati sang harina, bino, lana, insenso, kag mga panakot.
Amo ini sila ang mga katawhan sang Juda, Benjamin, Efraim, kag Manase nga nakabalik kag nag-estar sa Jerusalem:
Pero katungdanan sang mga pari ang pagmiksla sang mga panakot.
Si Matitia nga kaliwat ni Levi, nga kamagulangan nga anak ni Shalum nga kaliwat ni Kora, amo ang gintugyanan sa pagluto sang tinapay nga inughalad nga inughalad .
Ang iban nga mga kaliwat ni Kora amo ang gintugyanan sa pagpreparar kag pagplastar sang mga tinapay sa lamisa kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Ang mga musikero sa templo sa templo mga pangulo sang mga pamilya nga mga kaliwat ni Levi. Kag wala na sila sing iban nga mga buluhaton, tungod kay nagahimo sila sang ila buluhaton adlaw-gab-i.
Ini sila tanan mga pangulo sang mga pamilya nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, kag nalista sila sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat. Nag-estar sila sa Jerusalem.
Si Jiel nga amay ni Gibeon nag-estar sa Gibeon. Ang ngalan sang iya asawa amo si Maaca.
Ang iya mga anak nga lalaki halin sa kamagulangan hasta sa kamanghuran amo sila ni Abdon, Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,
Gedor, Ahio, Zacarias, kag Miklot
(nga amay ni Shimeam). Nag-estar sila malapit sa ila mga paryente sa Jerusalem.
Si Utai nga anak ni Amihud (si Amihud anak ni Omri; si Omri anak ni Imri; si Imri anak ni Bani, nga kaliwat ni Perez nga anak ni Juda).
Si Ahaz amay ni Jada,
kag si Moza amay ni Binea. Ang anak ni Binea amo si Refaya, ang anak ni Refaya amo si Eleasa, kag ang anak ni Eleasa amo si Azel.
Sa mga Shilonhon: si Asaya nga amo ang kamagulangan, kag ang iya mga anak.
sila tanan halin sa tribo ni Juda sila tanan halin sa tribo ni Juda .
si Salu nga anak ni Meshulam (si Meshulam anak ni Hodavia; si Hodavia anak ni Hasenua),
kag si Meshulam nga anak ni Shefatia (si Shefatia anak ni Reuel; si Reuel anak ni Ibnia).
Ini sila tanan mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya. 956 tanan ka tawo halin sa tribo ni Benjamin ang nakabalik ang nakabalik , suno sa listahan sang ila mga kaliwat.
Karon, nagpakig-away ang mga Filistinhon sa mga Israelinhon sa Bukid sang Gilboa. Madamo ang napatay sa mga Israelinhon sa mga Israelinhon , kag ang iban sa ila nagpalalagyo.
Ginbutang nila ang mga armas ni Saul sa templo sang ila mga dios, kag ginpakabit ang ulo ni Saul sa templo sang ila dios nga si ila dios nga si Dagon.
Nabalitaan sang mga taga-Jabesh Gilead ang tanan nga ginhimo sang mga Filistinhon kay Saul.
Gani naglakat ang tanan nila nga maisog nga mga tawo kag ginkuha ang bangkay ni Saul kag sang iya mga anak, kag gindala nila sa Jabesh. Dayon ginlubong nila ini sa idalom sang dako nga kahoy sa Jabesh, kag nagpuasa sila sing pito ka adlaw.
Napatay si Saul tungod kay indi siya matutom sa Ginoo Ginoo . Wala niya gintuman ang sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag nagdangop pa gani siya sa mga espiritista
imbes mangayo siya sang laygay sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gani ginpatay siya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginhatag ang ginharian kay David nga anak ni Jesse.
Puwerte gid ang inaway nila ni Saul kag sang mga Filistinhon. Naigo si Saul sang pana kag napilasan.
Sang makita sang manugdala sang iya armas nga patay na siya ginbuno man niya ang iya kaugalingon sang iya mismo espada, kag napatay man siya.
Gani napatay si Saul, ang iya tatlo ka anak nga lalaki, kag ang tanan niya nga tinawo.
Sadto nga tion may mga Israelinhon nga nagaestar sa kapatagan sang Jezreel sang Jezreel . Sang makita nila nga nagpalagyo ang mga soldado sang Israel kag napatay na si Saul kag ang iya mga anak, ginbayaan nila ang ila mga banwa kag nagpalagyo man sila. Gani ginsulod sang mga Filistinhon ini nga mga banwa kag gin-estaran.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, pagkatapos sang inaway, nagkadto ang mga Filistinhon sa Bukid sang Gilboa sa pagkuha sang mga kagamitan sang mga napatay. Nakita nila didto ang bangkay ni Saul kag sang iya mga anak.
Ginkuha nila ang mga armas ni Saul kag gin-utod ang iya ulo. Dayon nagpadala sila sang mga mensahero sa bilog nga duta sang mga Filistinhon sa pagbalita didto sa ila mga dios-dios kag sa ila mga kasimanwa nga napatay na si Saul nga napatay na si Saul .
Nagkadto ang tanan nga Israelinhon kay David sa Hebron kag nagsiling, “Mga kadugo mo kami.
Amo ini ang mga lider sang maisog nga mga tinawo ni David. Sila kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon nagsuporta gid sa paghari ni David, suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa Israel.
Si Jashobeam nga anak ni Hacmoni amo ang nagapanguna sa tatlo
Ang sunod sa iya amo si Eleazar nga anak ni Dodai
Isa siya sa mga nag-upod kay David sang nagpakig-away sila sa mga Filistinhon sa Pas Damim. Didto sila nag-away sa talamnan sang barley. Nagpalagyo ang mga Israelinhon,
pero si Eleazar kag si David nagpabilin didto sa tunga sang talamnan, kag ginpamatay nila ang mga Filistinhon. Ginpadaog gid sila sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Isa ka adlaw, nagkadto kay David ang tatlo niya ka tinawo didto sa kuweba sang Adulam. Ini sila nga tatlo miyembro sang 30 ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David. Nagakampo sadto ang mga Filistinhon sa Kapatagan sang Refaim
gin-uhaw siya. Nagsiling siya, “Maayo kuntani nga may magkuha para sa akon sang tubig nga mainom didto sa bubon malapit sa puwertahan sang Betlehem.”
Gani nagsulod sing tago atong tatlo ka maisog nga mga tawo ka maisog nga mga tawo sa kampo sang mga Filistinhon kag nagkuha sila sang tubig sa bubon malapit sa puwertahan sang Betlehem kag gindala kay David. Pero indi mag-inom si David; sa baylo gin-ula niya ini bilang halad bilang halad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Halin sang una, bisan sang si Saul pa ang amon hari, ikaw ang nagapangulo sa mga Israelinhon sa pagpakig-away. Kag nagsiling sa imo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, ‘Atipanon mo ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon pareho sa isa ka manug-atipan sang mga karnero. Ikaw ang mangin pangulo nila.’ ”
Si Abishai nga utod ni Joab amo ang pangulo sang 30
pero indi siya parte nila. Kag tungod nga siya ang pinakabantog sa iya kaupod nga 30,
Sa isa pa gid ka tion, Sa isa pa gid ka tion, ginpatay niya ang isa ka Egyptohanon nga may kataason nga 7 feet kag 6 inches. Ang armas sang Egyptohanon bangkaw nga mabug-at kag madamol,
pero indi siya parte nila. Kag tungod nga mas bantog siya sang sa iya kaupod nga 30, ginhimo siya ni David nga pangulo sang iya mga badigard.
si Elhanan nga anak ni Dodo nga taga-Betlehem,
si Helez nga taga-Pelon,
si Abiezer nga taga-Anatot,
Gani didto sa Hebron, naghimo si David sang kasugtanan sa mga manugdumala sang Israel sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginhaplasan nila sang lana ang ulo ni David sa pagpakita nga siya na ang hari sang Israel, suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Samuel.
si Benaya nga taga-Piraton,
si Eliaba nga taga-Shaalbon,
si Jonatan nga anak ni Shagee
si Elifal nga anak ni Ur,
si Ahia nga taga-Pelon,
si Mibhar nga anak ni Hagri,
si Naharai nga taga-Beerot, nga manugdala sang armas ni Joab nga anak ni Zeruya,
Isa ka tion, Isa ka tion, naglakat si David kag ang mga Israelinhon sa pagsalakay sa Jerusalem (nga amo ang Jebus sang una). Ang mga Jebusnon nga nagaestar didto
si Ira kag si Gareb nga mga taga-Jatir,
si Zabad nga anak ni Alai,
si Adina nga anak ni Shiza nga isa ka pangulo sa tribo ni Reuben kag may 30 siya ka tinawo,
si Joshafat nga taga-Mitna,
si Shama kag Jiel nga mga anak ni Hotam nga taga-Aroer,
si Joha nga iya utod nga taga-Tiz,
si Itma nga taga-Moab,
si Eliel, Obed, kag Jaasiel nga taga-Mezoba.
nagsiling kay David, “Indi gid kamo makasulod diri sa Jerusalem.” Pero naagaw gid man nila ni David ang mabakod nga kuta sang Zion, nga gintawag sang ulihi nga gintawag sang ulihi nga Banwa ni David.
Nagsiling si David, “Ang bisan sin-o nga mag-una sa pagsalakay sa mga Jebusnon mangin kumander sang mga soldado.” Si Joab nga anak ni Zeruya amo ang nag-una sa pagsalakay. Gani nangin kumander siya.
Sa tapos maagaw ni David ang mabakod nga kuta, didto siya nag-estar, kag gintawag niya ato nga Banwa ni David.
Ginpadugangan niya ini sang pader sa palibot halin sa manubo nga parte sang banwa.
Naggamhanan nga naggamhanan si David, tungod kay ginabuligan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Amo ini ang mga tawo nga nagkadto kay David didto sa Ziklag kag nag-upod sa iya kag nag-upod sa iya sang nagapanago siya kay Saul nga anak ni Kish. Isa sila sa mga nagbulig kay David sa inaway.
si Jeremias ang ikalima,
si Eliel ang ikapito,
si Elzabad ang ikasiyam,
kag si Macbanai ang ikaonse.
Ini sila nga mga kaliwat ni Gad mga kumander sang mga soldado. Ang pinakamaluya sa ila makadumala sang 100 ka soldado kag ang pinakamakusog sa ila makadumala sang 1,000 ka soldado.
Gintabok nila ang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan sang tion sang tigbalaha sini sa una nga bulan sang tuig, kag gintabog nila ang tanan nga nagaestar sa kapatagan sa east kag sa west sang suba sang suba .
May mga tawo man nga halin sa tribo ni Benjamin kag ni Juda nga nagkadto kay David didto sa mabakod nga palanaguan.
Nagguwa si David sa pagsugata sa ila kag nagsiling, “Kon nagkadto kamo diri sa pagbulig sa akon bilang mga abyan, ginabaton ko kamo nga mag-upod sa amon. Pero kon nagkadto kamo diri sa pagtugyan sa akon sa akon mga kaaway bisan wala ako sing may ginhimo nga malain sa inyo, kabay pa nga makita ini sang Dios sang aton mga katigulangan kag silutan niya kamo.”
Gani ginbaton sila ni David kag ginhimo nga mga opisyal sang iya mga soldado.
May mga tawo man nga halin sa tribo ni Manase nga nag-upod kay David sang magkadto siya sa mga Filistinhon sa pagpakig-away kay Saul. Pero ang natabo, wala magsugot ang mga Filistinhon nga mag-upod si David kag ang iya mga tinawo, kay nagahunahuna sila nga basi mag-unong liwat si David sa iya agalon nga si Saul. Gani pagkatapos nila diskusyon, ginpabalik nila si David sa Ziklag sa Ziklag .
May mga pana sila, kag sagad gid sila magpana ukon maglabyog sang bato, tuo man ukon wala nga kamot. Mga paryente sila ni Saul halin sa tribo ni Benjamin.
Amo ini ang mga tawo nga halin sa tribo ni Manase nga nag-upod kay David sa Ziklag: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediel, Micael, Jozabad, Elihu, kag Ziletai. Ang kada isa sa ila lider sang isa ka libo ka soldado sa tribo ni Manase.
Nagbulig sila kay David sa pagpakig-away sa mga manugsalakay, kay mga maayo sila tanan nga soldado. Amo ina nga nangin kumander sila sang mga soldado ni David.
Kada adlaw, may mga tawo nga nagakadto kay David sa pagbulig sa iya, hasta nga nagdamo kag nagbakod ang iya mga soldado.
Amo ini ang kadamuon sang armado nga mga soldado nga nagkadto kay David didto sa Hebron sa pagbulig sa iya nga maagaw ang ginharian ni Saul, suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo :
Halin sa tribo ni Juda: 6,800 ka armado nga mga soldado nga may mga bangkaw kag mga pana.
Halin sa tribo ni Simeon: 7,100 ka maayo nga mga soldado.
Halin sa tribo ni Levi: 4,600 ka soldado ka soldado ,
lakip na si Jehoyada nga pangulo sang pamilya ni Aaron kag ang iya 3,700 ka tinawo,
kag si Zadok nga isa ka bataon kag maayo nga soldado kag ang 22 ka opisyal halin sa iya pamilya.
Halin sa tribo ni Benjamin nga mga paryente ni Saul: 3,000 ka soldado ka soldado . Kalabanan sa mga kaliwat ni Benjamin padayon nga nag-unong kay Saul.
si Beraca kag si Jehu nga taga-Anatot,
Halin sa tribo ni Efraim: 20,800 ka maayo nga mga soldado kag bantog sa ila mga pamilya.
Halin sa katunga nga tribo ni Manase: 18,000 ka soldado ka soldado . Ginpadala sila para lang sa pagbulig nga mangin hari si David.
Halin sa tribo ni Isacar: 200 ka pangulo upod sa ila mga paryente nga ila ginadumalahan. Ini sila nakahibalo kon ano ang dapat himuon sang Israel kag kon san-o nila ini himuon.
Halin sa tribo ni Zebulun: 50,000 ka maayo gid nga mga soldado nga preparado sa inaway. Armado sila sang nagkalain-lain nga armas. Handa gid sila nga magbulig kag mag-unong kay David kay David .
Halin sa tribo ni Naftali: 1,000 ka opisyal kag 37,000 ka soldado nga may dala nga mga taming kag mga bangkaw.
Halin sa tribo ni Dan: 28,600 ka mga soldado nga preparado sa inaway.
Halin sa tribo ni Asher: 40,000 ka maayo nga mga soldado nga preparado sa inaway.
Kag halin sa mga tribo sa east sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, ang tribo ni Reuben, Gad kag katunga sang tribo ni Manase: 120,000 ka soldado nga armado sang nagkalain-lain nga armas.
Ini sila tanan mga soldado nga nagbuluntar sa pagpakig-away. Nagkadto sila sa Hebron nga determinado sa paghimo kay David nga hari sa bilog nga Israel. Halos ang tanan nga Israelinhon gusto gid nga si David mangin ila hari.
Nagpabilin sila didto sang tatlo ka adlaw upod kay David nga nagakinaon kag nagaininom kay ginpadal-an sila sang ila mga kasimanwa sang pagkaon.
si Jeremias, Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad nga taga-Gedera,
Nagdala man sang pagkaon ang ila mga kadugo halin pa sa malayo nga lugar sang Isacar, Zebulun, kag Naftali. Ginkarga nila ini sa mga donkey, mga camel, mga mula,
si Eluzai, Jerimot, Bealia, Shemaria, kag Shefatia nga taga-Haruf,
si Elkana, Ishia, Azarel, Joezer, kag Jashobeam nga mga kaliwat ni Kora,
si Joela kag Zebadia nga mga anak ni Jeroham nga taga-Gedor.
May mga tawo man nga halin sa tribo ni Gad nga nag-upod kay David didto sa mabakod nga palanaguan sa kamingawan. Mga maisog sila nga mga soldado kag sagad sila maggamit sang taming kag bangkaw. Pareho sila kaisog sa mga leon, kag pareho kadasig sa usa sa kabukiran:
si Eliab ang ikatatlo,
Nagpakig-estorya si David sa iya mga opisyal, nga mga kumander sang linibo kag ginatos nga soldado.
Naakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Uza tungod gin-uyatan niya ang Kahon. Gani napatay siya didto sa presensya sang Dios.
Hinadlukan si David sa Dios sadto nga adlaw, kag nagsiling siya, “Paano na lang madala sa akon banwa banwa ang Kahon sang Dios?”
Gani nagdesisyon siya nga indi na lang niya pagdal-on ang Kahon sa iya banwa.
Didto ini sa balay ni Obed Edom sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan, kag ginpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang panimalay ni Obed Edom kag ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
Dayon nagsiling siya sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel, “Kon maayo para sa inyo kag kon kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, magpadala kita sang mensahi sa tanan ta nga kasimanwa sa bilog nga teritoryo sang Israel, pati sa mga pari kag mga Levita nga nagaestar kaupod nila sa ila mga banwa nga may mga palahalban. Pakadtuon ta sila diri sa pagbuylog sa aton.
Tion na ini nga kuhaon ta ang Kahon sang aton Dios, kay wala ta ini ginsapak sang si Saul pa ang hari.”
Nagsugot ang bilog nga komunidad kay nakita nila nga amo ato ang husto nga himuon.
Gani gintipon ni David ang tanan nga Israelinhon, halin sa Suba sang Suba sang Shihor sa Egypt hasta sa Lebo Hamat,
Nagkadto si David kag ang mga Israelinhon sa Baala sa Juda (nga amo man ang Kiriat Jearim). Ginkuha nila didto ang Kahon sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios, nga sa diin ara ang iya presensya.
Ginkuha nila ang Kahon sang Dios sa balay ni Abinadab kag ginkarga sa bag-o nga karo. Si Uza kag si Ahio ang nagagiya sa karo.
Nagselebrar si David kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa presensya sang Dios sa bug-os nila nga kusog. Nagakanta sila kag nagatukar sang mga arpa, lira, tamborin, cymbals, kag trumpeta.
Sang pag-abot nila sa linasan ni Kidon,
Gani nagpamangkot si David sa Dios, “Salakayon bala namon ang mga Filistinhon? Ipapierdi mo bala sila sa amon?” Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Huo, lakat kamo, kay ipapierdi ko gid sila sa inyo.”
Gani nagkadto si David kag ang iya mga tinawo sa Baal Perazim, kag didto ginpierdi nila ang mga Filistinhon. Nagsiling dayon si David, “Ginlaglag sang Dios ang akon mga kaaway nga daw sa ginsalakay sang mabaskog nga baha, kag gin-gamit niya ako sa paglaglag sa ila.” Amo ina kon ngaa gintawag ato nga lugar nga Baal Perazim.
Ginbayaan sang mga Filistinhon ang ila mga dios-dios didto, kag nagmando si David nga sunugon ini.
Ginsalakay liwat sang mga Filistinhon ang Kapatagan sang Refaim sang Refaim .
Gani nagpamangkot liwat si David sa Dios, kag nagsabat ang Dios sa iya, “Indi kamo magderetso salakay sa ila kundi libuti ninyo sila kag salakaya malapit sa mga kahoy nga balsam.
Kon mabatian ninyo ang daw daw martsa sang mga soldado sa ibabaw nga parte sang mga kahoy nga balsam, magsalakay dayon kamo kay amo ina ang tanda nga nagapanguna ako sa inyo sa pagsalakay sa mga Filistinhon.”
Gani gintuman ni David ang ginsugo sang Dios sa iya, kag ginpamatay nila ang mga Filistinhon halin sa Gibeon pakadto sa Gezer.
Gani nangin bantog si David sa bisan diin, kag ginpahadlok sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya ang tanan nga nasyon.
Didto sa Jerusalem, madamo pa gid ang ginpangasawa ni David, kag nagdugang pa gid ang iya mga anak.
Amo ini ang iya mga anak nga natawo didto: Shamua,
Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,
Sang mabalitaan sang mga Filistinhon nga si David ang ginpili nga hari sa bilog nga Israel, gintipon nila ang tanan nila nga mga soldado sa pagdakop sa iya. Pero nabalitaan ato ni David, kag naglakat siya sa pagsugata sa ila.
Karon, ginsalakay sang mga Filistinhon ang Kapatagan sang Refaim.
Nagpatindog si David sang mga building para sa iya kaugalingon didto sa iya banwa.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Uziel, 112, kag ginpanguluhan sila ni Aminadab.
Dayon ginpatawag ni David si Zadok kag si Abiatar nga mga pari, kag ang mga Levita nga sila ni Uriel, Asaya Joel, Shemaya, Eliel, kag Aminadab.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kamo ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya nga mga kaliwat ni Levi. Magpakatinlo kamo
Tungod indi kamo ang nagdala sang Kahon sang nahauna nga tion, ginsilutan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios sa iya kaakig. Wala kita magpamangkot sa Ginoo Ginoo kon paano ini dal-on sa husto nga pamaagi.”
Kag gindala nila ang Kahon sang Dios paagi sa tukon nga pangtuwang, suno sa ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Moises.
Ginsugo ni David ang mga pangulo sang mga Levita sa pagpili sang mga manugkanta halin sa ila kapareho nga mga Levita, sa pagkanta sang masadya nga mga kalantahon nga ginatukaran sang mga lira, arpa, kag mga cymbals.
Gani ginpili sang mga Levita si Heman nga anak ni Joel, si Asaf nga anak ni Berekia, kag si Etan nga anak ni Kushaya nga kaliwat ni Merari.
Ang ginpili nga magbulig sa ila amo ang ila mga paryente nga sila ni Zacarias, Jaaziel, Shemiramot, Jehiel, Uni, Eliab, Benaya, Maasea, Mattitia, Elifelehu, Miknea, kag ang mga guwardya sang puwertahan sang Tolda sang Tolda nga sila ni Obed Edom kag Jiel.
Ang gintugyanan sa pagtukar sang mga saway nga cymbals amo sila ni Heman, Asaf, kag Etan.
Dayon nagsiling si David, “Wala sing may magdala sang Kahon sang Dios magluwas sa mga Levita, tungod kay ginpili sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagdala sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa pag-alagad sa iya presensya hasta san-o.”
Ang gintugyanan sa pagtukar sang mga lira sa mataas nga tunog
Ang gintugyanan sa pagtukar sang mga arpa sa manubo nga tunog
Ang gintugyanan sa pagpanguna sa pagkanta amo si Kenania nga pangulo nga Levita, tungod kay maayo siya magkanta.
Ang gintugyanan sa pagbantay sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan amo si Berekia kag si Elkana.
Ang gintugyanan sa pagpatunog sang trumpeta sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Dios amo ang mga pari nga sila ni Shebania, Joshafat, Netanel, Amasai, Zacarias, Benaya, kag Eliezer. Si Obed Edom kag si Jehia mga manugbantay man sa Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan .
Gani malipayon nga nagkadto si David, ang mga manugdumala sang Israel, kag ang mga kumander sang linibo ka soldado sa balay ni Obed Edom sa pagkuha sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag tungod ginbuligan sang Dios ang mga Levita sang ginadala nila ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo , naghalad sila sang pito ka turo nga baka kag pito ka karnero.
Si David nagabayo sang linen pati ang tanan nga Levita nga nagadala sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan , ang mga manugkanta, kag si Kenania nga amo ang gintugyanan sa pagpanguna sa pagkanta. Nagasul-ob man si David sang espesyal nga panapton
Gani gindala sang tanan nga Israelinhon ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga may paghinugyaw, pagpatunog sang mga trumpeta, mga budyong kag mga cymbals, kag pagtukar sang mga lira kag mga arpa.
Sang nagapasulod na ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Banwa ni David, nagtan-aw si Mical nga anak ni Saul sa bintana. Kag sang makita niya si Haring David nga nagasaot sa kalipay, ginkaugtan niya siya.
Gintipon ni David ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa Jerusalem sa pagdala sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa lugar nga iya ginpreparar para sa sini.
Ginpatawag man niya ang mga pari
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Kora, 120, kag ginpanguluhan sila ni Uriel.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Merari, 220, kag ginpanguluhan sila ni Asaya.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Gershon,
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Elizafan, 200, kag ginpanguluhan sila ni Shemaya.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Hebron, 80, kag ginpanguluhan sila ni Eliel.
Ginbutang nila ang Kahon sang Dios sa sulod sang tolda nga ginpatindog ni David para sa sini nga Kahon. Dayon naghalad sila sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon.
Magkalipay kamo nga mga nagadangop sa iya.
Magdangop kamo permi sa iya.
kag nagahukom siya sa bilog nga kalibutan.
ang iya promisa hasta sa linibo ka henerasyon.
kag ginpromisa man niya kay Isaac.
kag magapadayon ini nga kasugtanan hasta san-o.
bilang palanublion mo kag sang imo mga kaliwat.”
kag mga pangayaw pa lang sila sa duta sang Canaan.
Pagkatapos nila ni David halad sadto, ginbendisyunan niya ang mga tawo sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsaylo-saylo sila sa mga nasyon kag sa mga ginharian.
Siling niya, Siling niya,
indi ninyo paghaliti ang akon mga propeta.”
Isugid ninyo adlaw-adlaw ang parte sa pagluwas niya sa aton.
kag ang iya makatilingala nga mga binuhatan.
Dapat siya nga tahuron labaw sa tanan nga dios,
pero ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang naghimo sang kalangitan.
ang kusog kag kalipay ara sa iya puluy-an.
Dayawa ninyo ang iya gahom kag kusog.
Simbaha ninyo siya sa iya balaan nga presensya.
Ginpahamtang niya sing mabakod ang kalibutan kag indi ini mauyog.
Magsugid sila sa mga nasyon, “Nagahari ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
kag ang tanan nga ara sa ila.
Kay magaabot siya sa paghukom sa mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan.
ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.
para makapasalamat kami kag makadayaw sa imo pagkabalaan.
Dayon nagsabat ang tanan nga katawhan, “Amen.” Kag nagdayaw sila sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gintugyan ni David kay Asaf kag sa iya kapareho nga mga Levita nga mga Levita ang pag-alagad permi sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa kinahanglan nga himuon kada adlaw.
Lakip sa sini nga grupo amo si Obed Edom nga anak ni Jedutun, si Hosa, kag ang 68 pa ka Levita, nga amo ang mga guwardya sang puwertahan sang Tolda sang Tolda .
Gintugyan ni David kay Zadok nga pari kag sa iya kapareho nga mga pari ang Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa mataas nga lugar sa Gibeon.
Nagpili si David sang mga Levita sa pag-alagad sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa pagpangamuyo, sa pagpasalamat kag sa pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Sila permi ang maghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog sa halaran, adlaw-gab-i, suno sa tanan nga nasulat sa Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya ginhatag sa Israel.
Kaupod man nila si Heman, si Jedutun, kag ang iban nga ginpili sa pagkanta sang pagpasalamat sa Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa iya gugma nga wala sing katapusan.
Responsibilidad ni Heman kag ni Jedutun ang pagpatunog sang mga trumpeta, mga cymbals kag sang iban pa nga mga instrumento nga ginagamit sa pagkanta sang mga ambahanon para sa Dios. Ang mga anak ni Jedutun amo ang gintugyanan sa pagbantay sang puwertahan.
Dayon nagpuli ang tanan sa ila mga balay, kag si David nagpuli man sa pagbendisyon sang iya pamilya.
Si Asaf amo ang nagapanguna sa ila kag siya ang manugpatunog sang mga cymbals. Ang sunod sa iya amo si Zacarias, dayon si Jiel, Shemiramot, Jehiel, Matitia, Eliab, Benaya, Obed Edom, kag Jiel. Sila ang mga manugtukar sang mga lira kag mga arpa.
Ang mga pari nga si Benaya kag Jahaziel amo ang manugpatunog permi sang mga trumpeta sa atubangan sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Dios.
Sadto nga adlaw sa una nga tion, ginhatag ni David sa una nga tion kay Asaf kag sa iya kapareho nga mga Levita ang ini nga kanta sa pagpasalamat sa Ginoo Ginoo :
Isugid sa mga katawhan ang iya mga binuhatan.
isugid ang tanan nga makatilingala niya nga mga binuhatan.
Sang nagaestar na si David sa iya palasyo, nagsiling siya kay Propeta Natan, “Ari ako nagaestar sa palasyo nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sedro, pero ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo ara lang sa tolda.”
halin sang tion nga nagbutang ako sang mga pangulo sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Pierdihon ko man ang tanan mo nga kaaway. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasugid sa imo nga magahari permi ang isa sang imo mga kaliwat.
Siya ang magapatindog sang templo para sa akon, kag siguraduhon ko nga ang iya mga kaliwat amo ang magahari hasta san-o.
Mangin pareho ako sa isa ka amay sa iya, kag mangin pareho siya sa isa ka anak sa akon. Magapabilin ang akon gugma sa iya, indi pareho sa akon ginhimo kay Saul nga imo ginbuslan nga hari.
Padumalahon ko siya sa akon katawhan kag ginharian, kag ang iya mga kaliwat magahari hasta san-o.’ ”
Dayon nagsulod si Haring David sa Tolda nga sa diin ara ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sa Tolda nga sa diin ara ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan . Nagpungko siya didto sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagpangamuyo, “ Ginoong Ginoong Dios, sin-o gid bala ako kag ang akon pamilya nga ginpakamaayo mo ako sing pareho sini?
Kag karon, O Dios, may promisa ka pa gid parte sa palaabuton sang akon pamilya. Ginkabig mo ako nga daw pinakadungganon nga tawo. O Ginoong Ginoong Dios,
ano pa bala ang akon mahambal sa imo parte sa imo pagpadungog sa akon? Kay nahibaluan mo naman kon sin-o gid ako nga imo alagad.
O Ginoo Ginoo , tungod sa akon nga akon nga imo alagad kag suno sa imo kabubut-on, ginhimo mo ining dalagko nga mga butang kag ginpahibalo sa akon.
Nagsabat si Natan kay David, “Himua ang gusto mo nga himuon, kay ang Dios nagaupod sa imo.”
Wala gid sing pareho sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala na sing iban pa nga Dios magluwas sa imo. Wala kami sing may nabatian nga may dios nga pareho sa imo.
Kag wala na sing katawhan nga pareho sa imo katawhan nga Israelinhon. Amo lang ini nga nasyon sa kalibutan nga imo ginhilway sa pagkaulipon sa pagkaulipon para mangin imo katawhan. Nangin bantog ka tungod sang gamhanan kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga ginhimo mo sang gintabog mo ang mga nasyon paagi sa imo katawhan nga ginpaguwa mo sa Egypt.
May kaisog ako sa pagpangamuyo sini sa imo nga akon Dios, tungod kay ginpahayag mo sa akon nga imo alagad nga magahari permi ang isa sa akon mga kaliwat.
“O Ginoo Ginoo , matuod ka nga Dios. Ginpromisa mo ining maayo nga mga butang sa akon nga imo alagad.
Kag karon nalipay ka sa pagpakamaayo sa akon pamilya para magapadayon ini hasta san-o sa imo presensya. Kay kon magpakamaayo ka Ginoo Ginoo , ang imo pagpakamaayo wala sing katapusan.”
Pero sadto mismo nga gab-i nagsiling ang Dios kay Natan,
“Lakat, kag silinga ang akon alagad nga si David nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: ‘Indi ikaw ang magapatindog sang templo nga pagaestaran ko.
Wala pa ako makaestar sa templo halin sang tion nga ginpaguwa ko ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt sa Egypt hasta subong. Nagasaylo-saylo lang ako nga ang akon ginaestaran tolda.
“Silinga pa gid si David nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling, ‘Manugbantay ka sang una sang mga karnero, pero ginpili ko ikaw nga magdumala sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Ginhatagan ko na sang permanente nga lugar ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. May kaugalingon na sila nga elistaran kag wala na sing may magtublag sa ila. Indi na sila pagdaog-daugon sang malain nga mga tawo pareho sang una,
Sang ulihi napierdi ni David ang mga Filistinhon, kag ginsakop niya sila. Naagaw niya sa ila ang Gat kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Gani ginpakadto niya ang iya anak nga si Hadoram
Ginhalad ini ni Haring David sa Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa iya ginhimo sa mga pilak kag bulawan nga iya naagaw sa iban nga mga nasyon nga iya ginpierdi—ang Edom, Moab, Ammon, Filistia, kag Amalek.
Si Abishai nga anak ni Zeruya nakapatay sang 18,000 ka Edomnon sa kapatagan nga ginatawag Asin.
Nagpabutang dayon si David sang mga kampo sa Edom, kag nangin sakop niya ang tanan nga Edomnon. Ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo si David bisan diin siya magkadto sa pagpakig-away sa pagpakig-away .
Ang mga pangulo nga pangulo nga pari amo si Zadok nga anak ni Ahitub kag si Ahimelec
Ang pangulo sang mga badigard ni David nga mga badigard ni David nga mga Keretnon kag mga Peletnon amo si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada. Kag ang mga pangulo nga mga opisyal ni David amo ang iya mga anak nga lalaki.
Napierdi man ni David ang mga Moabnon, kag ginsakop niya sila kag nagbayad sila sang buhis sa iya.
Nagpakig-away man si David kay Haring Hadadezer sang Zoba, hasta sa Hamat, sang maglakat si Hadadezer sa pagsakop sang mga duta malapit sa mga duta malapit sa Suba sang Euphrates.
Naagaw nila ni David ang 1,000 niya ka karwahe, 7,000 ka manugkarwahe, kag 20,000 ka soldado. Ginpamiang nila ni David ang mga kabayo nga nagaguyod sang mga karwahe luwas lang sa 100 nga ginbilin nila para ila gamiton para ila gamiton .
Nagpabutang dayon si David sang mga kampo sa Damascus, ang lugar sang mga Arameanhon. Kag nangin sakop niya sila, kag nagbayad sila sang buhis sa iya. Ginpadaog sang Ginoo Ginoo si David, bisan diin siya magkadto sa pagpakig-away sa pagpakig-away .
Ginkuha man niya ang madamo gid nga mga saway sa Teba
Sang ulihi napatay si Nahash nga hari sang mga Ammonhon. Kag ang iya anak nga si Hanun nga si Hanun amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagsiling si Joab kay Abishai kay Abishai , “Kon makita mo nga daw mapierdi na kami sang mga Arameanhon, buligan ninyo kami, kag kon kamo man ang daw mapierdi sang mga Ammonhon buligan namon kamo.
Pagkakita sang mga Ammonhon nga nagapalalagyo ang mga Arameanhon, nagpalagyo man sila kay Abishai nga utod ni Joab, kag nagsulod sa ila banwa. Gani nagpuli sila ni Joab sa Jerusalem.
Sang mareyalisar sang mga Arameanhon nga napierdi sila sang mga Israelinhon, nagpadala sila sang mga mensahero sa mga kaupod nila nga mga Arameanhon didto sa pihak sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates para pangabayon sila nga magbulig sa ila. Nag-abot ini nga grupo nga Nag-abot ini nga grupo nga ginapanguluhan ni Shofac
Sang mahibaluan ini ni David, ginpatipon niya ang tanan nga soldado sang soldado sang Israel sa pagpakig-away. Dayon nagtabok sila sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagplastar nga nagaatubang sa mga Arameanhon, kag dayon nag-inaway sila.
Pero nagpalalagyo ang mga Arameanhon sa mga Israelinhon. Nakapatay sila ni David sang 7,000 ka manugkarwahe kag 40,000 ka soldado nga nagalakat lang. Napatay man nila si Shofac, ang kumander sang mga soldado.
Sang makita sang mga sakop ni Hadadezer nga napierdi na sila sang mga Israelinhon, nagpakig-abyan sila kay David kag nagpasakop sa iya. Gani halin sadto indi na magbulig ang mga Arameanhon sa mga Ammonhon.
Pero sang pag-abot sang mga alagad ni David kay Hanun didto sa duta sang mga Ammonhon,
nagsiling ang mga opisyal sang mga Ammonhon kay Hanun, “Nagahunahuna ka bala nga ginadumdom ni David ang imo amay paagi sa pagpadala sang mga tawo sa pag-unong sa imo kalisod? Indi ayhan nagkadto sila diri sa pagpang-espiya sa aton duta kag laglagon ini?”
Gani ginpadakop ni Hanun ang mga alagad ni David kag ginpabalbasan ang ila mga burangos ang ila mga burangos . Ginpagutrab man niya ang ila mga bayo halin sa balikawang paidalom kag dayon ginpapuli sila.
Nahuya gid sila nga magpuli. Sang mabalitaan ni David ang natabo sa iya mga tinawo, nagpadala siya sang mga mensahero sa paghambal sa iya mga tinawo nga magpabilin lang anay sila sa Jerico hasta nga magtubo ang ila mga burangos, kag dayon makapuli na sila.
Nareyalisar sang mga Ammonhon nga ginpaakig gid nila si David. Gani nagbayad sila sing mga 35 ka tonelada nga pilak para arkilahan ang karwahe kag mga manugkarwahe sang Aram Naharaim,
Ang kadamuon sang mga karwahe kag mga manugkarwahe 32,000. Nag-ugyon man sa ila ang hari sang Maaca kag ang iya mga soldado. Nagkampo ini nga mga grupo malapit sa Medeba. Nagguwa man ang mga Ammonhon sa ila mga banwa kag nagpreparar sa pagpakig-away.
Pagkabati sini ni David, ginpadala niya si Joab kag ang tanan nga maisog nga mga soldado sa pagpakig-away sa pagpakig-away .
Nagplastar ang mga Ammonhon sa pagpakig-away sa may puwertahan sang ila banwa, samtang ang mga hari nga nag-ugyon sa ila nagplastar sa kapatagan.
Sang tion nga nagalakat ang mga hari sa pagpakig-away, ginpangunahan ni Joab ang mga soldado sa pagpakig-away. Si David ya nagpabilin sa Jerusalem. Ginlaglag nila ni Joab ang duta sang mga Ammonhon. Dayon ginpalibutan nila ang Raba hasta nga nalaglag nila ini.
Nagkadto Nagkadto si David sa Raba, kag sa Raba, kag ginkuha niya ang bulawan nga korona sa ulo sang hari sang mga Ammonhon
Gin-ulipon niya ang mga pumuluyo sini kag ginpaobra nga gamit ang lagari, sadol, kag wasay. Amo ini ang ginhimo ni David sa mga pumuluyo sang tanan nga banwa sang mga Ammonhon. Dayon nagpuli si David kag ang tanan niya nga soldado sa Jerusalem.
Sang ulihi nag-inaway liwat ang mga Filistinhon kag mga Israelinhon, kag didto ini natabo sa Gezer. Sa sini nga inaway ginpatay ni Sibecai nga taga-Husha si Sipai,
Sa isa pa nila ka inaway, ginpatay ni Elhanan nga anak ni Jair si Lami nga utod ni Goliat nga taga-Gat. Ang bangkaw ni Lami mabug-at kag madamol.
Nag-inaway pa gid liwat ang mga Filistinhon kag mga Israelinhon kag didto ini natabo sa Gat. Sa sini nga inaway, may tawo nga puwerte gid kadako, nga may anom ka tudlo ang tagsa niya ka kamot kag tiil. Isa man siya sa mga kaliwat sang mga Rafa.
Ato nga mga Filistinhon mga kaliwat sang mga Rafa nga taga-Gat. Ginpamatay sila ni David kag sang iya mga tinawo.
Ginkontra ni Satanas
Gani nagkadto si Gad kay David kag nagsiling sa iya, “Diin sa sini ang gusto mo:
Tatlo ka tuig nga gutom, tatlo ka bulan nga pagpanglaglag sa inyo sang inyo mga kaaway, ukon tatlo ka adlaw nga kahalitan halin sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagpanghalit sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog nga duta sang Israel. Magdesisyon ka kag pahibalua ako kon ano ang isabat ko sa Ginoo nga Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpadala sa akon.”
Nagsabat si David kay Gad, “Nabudlayan gid ako magpili. Maayo pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo na lang ang magsilot sa akon sang sa mga tawo, kay maluluy-on gid ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gani nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang kahalitan sa Israel, kag 70,000 ka Israelinhon ang napatay.
Dayon nagpadala ang Dios sang anghel sa paglaglag sang Jerusalem. Pero samtang ginalaglag sang anghel ang Jerusalem, nagbaylo ang hunahuna sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagsilot sa mga tawo. Gani nagsiling siya sa anghel nga nagapanglaglag sa mga tawo, “Tama na! Indi na sila pagsiluti.” Sadto nga tion didto nagatindog ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa may linasan ni Arauna
Nagtangla si David kag nakita niya ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagatindog sa kahanginan, sa tunga-tunga sang langit kag duta nga may ginauyatan nga espada nga nagatudlo sa Jerusalem. Dayon nagluhod si David kag ang mga manugdumala sang Israel sang Israel , nga nagasuksok sang sako sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo .
Nagsiling si David sa Dios, “Ako ang nagsugo nga i-census ang mga tawo. Ako ang nakasala. Ini nga mga tawo pareho sa mga karnero. Wala sila sang may nahimo nga sala. O Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, ako na lang kag ang akon pamilya ang siluti. Indi pagpaantusa ang imo katawhan sa sini nga kahalitan.”
Dayon ginsugo sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo si Gad sa pagsiling kay David nga magtaklad siya sa linasan ni Arauna nga Jebusnon kag maghimo didto sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani nagsiling si David kay Joab kag sa mga kumander sang mga soldado, “Lakat kamo, kag isipa ninyo ang mga Israelinhon halin sa Beersheba hasta sa Dan.
Sadto nga tion nagalinas si Arauna kag ang iya apat ka anak nga lalaki sang trigo. Kag sang makita nila ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagdalagan ang apat ka anak ni Arauna kag nagpanago.
Dayon nakita ni Arauna nga nagapadulong si David. Gani naghalin siya sa linasan kag nagluhod sa atubangan ni David bilang pagtahod sa iya bilang pagtahod sa iya .
Nagsiling si David sa iya, “Ibaligya sa akon ang imo linasan kay mapatindog ako sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo , agod mauntat na ang kahalitan sa mga tawo. Bayaran ko ikaw kon pila gid ang iya bili.”
Nagsiling si Arauna kay David, “Sige, kuhaa, Mahal nga Hari. Himua kon ano ang maayo sa imo. Hatagan ko pa ikaw sang baka para ihalad bilang halad nga ginasunog, mga tapi nga panglinas para igatong, kag trigo para ihalad bilang halad nga regalo. Huo, ihatag ko ini tanan sa imo.”
Pero nagsabat si Haring David kay Arauna, “Indi ko ini pagbatunon nga libre. Bayaran ko ikaw kon pila ang bili sini. Indi ko mahimo nga kuhaon lang ini sa imo kag ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Indi ako maghalad sang halad nga ginasunog nga wala sing bili sa akon.”
Gani ginbayaran ni David si Arauna sang 600 ka bilog
Dayon naghimo siya didto sang halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Kag dayon nagpangamuyo siya. Ginsabat siya sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa pagpadala sang kalayo halin sa langit sa pagsunog sang pagsunog sang mga halad sa halaran.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa anghel nga ibalik niya ang iya espada sa tagub.
Sang nakita ni David nga ginsabat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya pangamuyo, naghalad pa gid pa gid siya sang mga halad didto sa linasan ni Arauna nga Jebusnon.
Sadto nga tion, ang Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang halaran sang mga halad nga ginasunog nga ginpahimo ni Moises sa kamingawan ara sa mataas nga lugar sa Gibeon.
Pero nagsabat si Joab, “Kabay pa nga padamuon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang imo katawhan sing 100 ka pilo. Pero, Mahal nga Hari, ngaa nga gusto mo himuon ini nga butang? Indi bala nga mga sakop mo sila? Ti, ngaa dalahigon mo sila sa imo sala nga himuon?”
Pero indi magkadto didto si David sa pagpamangkot sa Dios, tungod nahadlok siya sa espada sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero nag-insister gid si David, gani ginlibot ni Joab ang bilog nga Israel, kag dayon nagbalik sa Jerusalem.
Ginsugid niya kay David ang kadamuon sang mga lalaki nga makasarang magpakig-away: 1,100,000 sa Israel kag 470,000 sa Juda.
Pero wala pag-ilakip ni Joab sa pag-isip ang tribo ni Levi kag ni Benjamin tungod kay naugot siya sa sugo sang hari.
Wala man malipay ang Dios sa sining sugo ni David ni David , gani ginsilutan niya ang Israel.
Dayon nagsiling si David sa Dios, “Nakasala gid ako sa akon ginhimo. Gani nagapakitluoy ako sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo , nga patawaron mo ako nga imo alagad sa akon sala, kay kabuangan gid ang akon ginhimo.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Gad nga propeta ni David,
Dayon nagsiling si David, “Diri na nga lugar ibutang ang templo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios kag ang halaran sang mga halad nga ginasunog sang Israel.”
Siya amo ang magapatindog sang templo para sa akon kadungganan. Kabigon ko siya nga akon anak kag ako mangin iya amay. Ang iya mga kaliwat magahari sa Israel hasta san-o.’
“Gani anak, kabay pa nga updan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo kag magmadinalag-on ka sa pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, suno sa iya ginsiling nga himuon mo.
Kabay pa nga hatagan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi para matuman mo ang iya kasuguan sa tion nga padumalahon ka na niya sa bilog nga Israel.
Kag kon matuman mo sing maayo ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag niya sa Israel paagi kay Moises, mangin madinalag-on ka. Gani magpakabakod ka kag magpakaisog. Indi ka magkahadlok ukon magkaluya.
Ginpangabudlayan ko gid ang pagpreparar sang mga materyales para sa pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo —3,500 ka tonelada nga bulawan, 35,000 ka tonelada nga pilak, kag madamo gid nga mga saway kag mga salsalon nga indi na makilo sa kabug-at. Nagpreparar man ako sang mga kahoy kag mga bato, pero kinahanglan mo pa ini dugangan.
May madamo ka nga manug-obra: mga manugbasbas sang bato, mga mason, mga panday, kag madamo gid nga mga tawo nga may abilidad sa bisan ano nga obra,
sa bulawan, pilak, saway, kag salsalon. Karon, umpisahi na ang pagpaobra, kag kabay pa nga updan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Dayon ginmanduan ni David ang tanan nga pangulo sang Israel sa pagbulig kay Solomon nga iya anak.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kaupod ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag ginhatagan niya kamo sang kalinong sa inyo mga kaaway sa inyo mga kaaway sa palibot. Kay gintugyan niya sa akon ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang sini nga duta, kag karon iya na ini sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sakop na ini naton nga iya katawhan.
Gani karon magdangop kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa bug-os ninyo nga tagipusuon kag kalag. Umpisahi na ninyo ang pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios para mabutang na ninyo ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang balaan nga mga kagamitan sang Dios sa sina nga templo nga patindugon para sa iya kadungganan.”
Nagmando si David sa pagtipon sang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar sa Israel, kag nagpili siya sa ila sang mga manugbasbas sang mga bato para sa templo sang Dios.
Naghatag si David sang madamo gid nga mga salsalon para himuon nga mga lansang kag mga bisagra para sa mga puwertahan, kag madamo gid nga mga saway nga indi na makilo sa kabug-at.
Naghatag man siya sang mga kahoy nga sedro nga indi maisip ang kadamuon. Ini nga mga kahoy gindala sa iya sang mga taga-Sidon kag mga taga-Tyre.
Nagsiling si David, “Bataon pa ang akon anak nga si Solomon kag wala pa siya sing eksperiensya. Kinahanglan nga ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga patindugon matahom gid kag bantog sa bilog nga kalibutan. Gani preparahan ko gid ini subong.” Gani puwerte gid ang pagpreparar ni David sa wala pa siya mapatay.
Dayon ginpatawag ni David ang iya anak nga si Solomon kag ginsugo sa pagpatindog sang templo para sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Nagsiling si David kay Solomon, “Anak, gusto ko kuntani nga magpatindog sang templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios.
Pero amo ini ang iya ginsiling sa akon: ‘Madamo nga tawo ang imo napatay sa puwerte nga mga inaway nga imo naagyan. Gani indi ko ikaw pagtugutan sa pagpatindog sang templo para sa akon kadungganan.
Pero hatagan ko ikaw sang anak nga lalaki nga magahari nga may kalinong tungod nga indi siya pagdisturbuhon sang tanan niya nga kaaway sa palibot. Ngalanan siya nga Solomon,
Sang tigulang na gid si David, ginhimo niya nga hari sang Israel ang iya anak nga si Solomon.
Si Kohat may apat ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Amram, Izhar, Hebron, kag Uziel.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Amram amo si Aaron kag si Moises. Ginseparar si Aaron kag ang iya mga kaliwat sa pagdedikar sang labing balaan nga mga butang, sa paghalad sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo , sa pag-alagad sa iya, kag sa pagbendisyon sa katawhan sa katawhan sa iya ngalan. Amo ini ang ila katungdanan Amo ini ang ila katungdanan hasta san-o.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Moises nga alagad sang Dios nalakip sa mga Levita.
Ang iya mga anak nga lalaki amo si Gershom kag si Eliezer.
Ang isa sa mga anak nga lalaki ni Gershom amo si Shebuel
Si Eliezer may isa lang ka anak nga lalaki nga amo si Rehabia nga pinakapangulo sang ila pamilya sang ila pamilya . Madamo gid ang mga kaliwat ni Rehabia.
Ang isa sa mga anak nga lalaki ni Izhar amo si Shelomit nga pinakapangulo sang ila pamilya sang ila pamilya .
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Hebron amo sila ni Jeria, ang pinakapangulo sang ila pamilya sang ila pamilya , si Amaria ang ikaduha, si Jahaziel ang ikatatlo, kag si Jekameam ang ikaapat.
Ginpatipon niya ang tanan nga pangulo sang Israel, pati ang mga pari kag mga Levita.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Uziel amo si Micas, ang pinakapangulo sang ila pamilya sang ila pamilya , kag si Ishia ang ikaduha.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Merari amo si Mali kag si Mushi. Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Mali amo si Eleazar kag si Kish.
Napatay si Eleazar nga wala gid sang anak nga lalaki kundi mga babayi lang. Ini sila ginpangasawa sang ila mga pakaisa nga mga anak ni Kish.
Si Mushi may tatlo ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Mali, Eder, kag Jeremot.
Amo ini sila ang mga kaliwat ni Levi suno sa mga pangulo sang ila mga pamilya. Nalista ang tagsa nila ka ngalan. Ang kada isa sa ila dapat nagaedad 20 ka tuig paibabaw para makaalagad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si David, “Ginhatagan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, sang kalinong kag magaestar siya sa Jerusalem hasta san-o.
Karon, indi na kinahanglan sang mga Levita nga magdala-dala pa sang Tolda nga Simbahan kag sang mga kagamitan sini.”
Suno sa katapusan nga sugo ni David, ang tanan nga Levita nga nagaedad 20 ka tuig paibabaw ginlista para mag-alagad.
Ang katungdanan sang mga Levita amo ang pagbulig sa mga pari nga mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Aaron sa pag-alagad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sila ang magaatipan sang mga ugsaran sang templo kag sang mga kuwarto sa kilid, kag sila man ang magabulig sa mga seremonya sang pagpakatinlo kag sang iban pa nga buluhaton sa templo sang Dios.
Sila man ang gintugyanan sa balaan nga balaan nga tinapay nga ginaplastar sa lamisa, sa harina para sa mga halad nga regalo, sa tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok, kag sa iban pa nga ginaluto kag ginamiksla. Sila man ang gintugyanan sa pagkilo kag sa pagtakos sang tanan nga halad nga halad .
Gin-isip ang mga Levita nga nagaedad 30 paibabaw, kag ang ila kadamuon 38,000.
Ila man katungdanan ang pagtindog kada aga kag kada gab-i sa templo sa templo sa pagpasalamat kag sa pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sila man ang magabulig sa paghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, sa Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, kag sa iban pa nga natalana nga mga piesta. May mga pagsulundan kon pila ka Levita ang magahimo sini nga buluhaton kag kon paano nila ini himuon.
Gani ginhimo sang mga Levita ang ila katungdanan sa pag-atipan sang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan kag sa Balaan nga Lugar, kag sa pagbulig sa ila mga paryente nga mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron sa pag-alagad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si David, “Ang 24,000 sa ila magadumala sang mga buluhaton sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang 6,000 magaalagad bilang mga opisyal kag mga hukom,
ang 4,000 magaalagad bilang mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo , kag ang 4,000 pa gid magadayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa mga instrumento nga ginpahimo ko para sa sini nga buluhaton.”
Ginpartida ni David sa tatlo ka grupo ang mga Levita, suno sa mga pamilya sang mga anak ni Levi nga sila ni Gershon, Kohat, kag Merari.
Ang mga anak ni Gershon amo si Ladan
Si Ladan may tatlo ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Jehiel, ang pinakapangulo
Si Shimei may tatlo man ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Shelomot, Haziel, kag Haran.
Ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Aaron amo sila ni Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, kag Itamar.
ang ikawalo si Abia,
ang ikanapulo si Shecania,
ang ika-12 si Jakim,
ang ika-14 si Jeshebeab,
ang ika-16 si Imer,
ang ika-18 si Hapizez,
ang ika-20 si Jehezkel,
ang ika-22 si Gamul,
kag ang ika-24 si Maazia.
Ini sila naghimo sang ila mga katungdanan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo suno sa pagsulundan nga ginhatag sang ila katigulangan nga si Aaron halin sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Pero una nga napatay si Nadab kag Abihu sang sa ila amay, kag wala sila sang mga anak; gani ang nag-alagad bilang mga pari amo si Eleazar kag si Itamar.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Shebuel: si Jedea.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Rehabia: si Ishia, ang pinakapangulo sang ila pamilya sang ila pamilya .
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Shelomot: si Jahat.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Hebron: si Jeria, ang pinakapangulo sang ila pamilya sang ila pamilya , si Amaria ang ikaduha, si Jahaziel ang ikatatlo, kag si Jekameam ang ikaapat.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Micas: si Shamir.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Ishia nga utod ni Micas: si Zacarias.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Jaazia: si Beno.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Merari paagi kay Jaazia: si Beno, Shoham, Zacur, kag Ibri.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Mali: si Eleazar, nga wala sing mga anak nga lalaki.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Kish: si Jerameel.
Sa bulig ni Zadok nga kaliwat ni Eleazar, kag ni Ahimelec nga kaliwat ni Itamar, gin-grupo ni Haring Haring David ang mga kaliwat ni Aaron suno sa ila katungdanan.
Amo ini ang mga Levita suno sa ila mga pamilya.
Pareho sang ginhimo sang mga kaliwat ni Aaron, naggabot-gabot man sila sa paghibalo sang ila mga katungdanan, pamatan-on man ukon tigulang. Ginhimo nila ini sa atubangan ni Haring David, Zadok, Ahimelec, kag sang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang mga pari kag mga Levita.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Eleazar gintunga sa 16 ka grupo kag ang mga kaliwat ni Itamar sa 8 ka grupo, kay mas madamo ang mga pangulo sang pamilya sa mga kaliwat ni Eleazar.
Ang tanan nga buluhaton ginpartida sa mga grupo paagi sa paggabot-gabot para wala sing may pinilian. Gani may mga opisyal sang templo nga nagaalagad sa Dios halin sa mga kaliwat ni Eleazar kag sa mga kaliwat ni Itamar.
Si Shemaya nga anak ni Netanel nga Levita amo ang sekretaryo. Ginlista niya ang mga ngalan sang mga pari sa atubangan sang hari kag sang mga opisyal nga sila ni Zadok nga pari, Ahimelec nga anak ni Abiatar, kag mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang mga pari kag sang mga Levita. Naggabot-gabot sing bulos-bulos ang mga kaliwat ni Eleazar kag ni Itamar.
ang ikaduha si Jedaya,
ang ikaapat si Seorim,
ang ikaanom si Miamin,
Nagpili si David kag ang mga kumander sang mga soldado sang mga tawo halin sa mga anak ni Asaf, Heman, kag Jedutun, sa pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios nga ginatukaran sang mga arpa, lira, kag mga cymbals. Amo ini ang lista sang ila mga ngalan kag mga obra:
Ang ikatatlo amo si Zacur kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ikaapat amo si Izri
Ang ikalima amo si Netania kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ikaanom amo si Bukia kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ikapito amo si Jesarela
Ang ikawalo amo si Jeshaya kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ikasiyam amo si Matania kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ikanapulo amo si Shimei kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-11 amo si Azarel
Ang ika-12 amo si Hashabia kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Halin sa mga anak nga lalaki ni Asaf: si Zacur, Jose, Netania, kag Asarela. Nag-obra sila sa idalom sang pagdumala sang ila amay nga si Asaf. Nagasugid si Asaf sang mensahi sang Dios kon magsugo ang hari.
Ang ika-13 amo si Shebuel
Ang ika-14 amo si Mattitia kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-15 amo si Jerimot
Ang ika-16 amo si Hanania kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-17 amo si Joshbekasha kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-18 amo si Hanani kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-19 amo si Maloti kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-20 amo si Eliata kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-21 amo si Hotir kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-22 amo si Gidalti
Halin sa mga anak nga lalaki ni Jedutun: si Gedalia, Zeri, Jeshaya, Shimei,
Ang ika-23 amo si Mahaziot kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Ang ika-24 amo si Romamti Ezer kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Halin sa mga anak nga lalaki ni Heman: si Bukia, Matania, Uziel, Shebuel,
Sila tanan mga anak ni Heman nga propeta sang hari. Ginpadunggan siya sang Dios paagi sa paghatag sa iya sang 14 ka anak nga lalaki kag tatlo ka babayi, suno sa promisa sang Dios sa iya.
Ini tanan nga lalaki ginadumalahan sang ila amay sa ila nga pagtukar sang mga cymbals, lira, kag mga arpa sa ila pag-alagad sa balay sang Dios. Si Asaf, Jedutun, kag Heman ginadumalahan sang hari.
Sila kag ang ila mga paryente, nga 288 tanan, mga maayo gid nga mga musikero para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Naggabot-gabot sila para mahibaluan ang tagsa nila ka responsibilidad, pamatan-on man ukon tigulang, manunudlo man ukon estudyante.
Ang ikaduha amo si Gedalia kag ang iya mga anak kag mga paryente; dose man sila.
Halin sa pamilya ni Kora, si Meshelemia nga anak ni Kore nga miyembro sang pamilya ni Asaf,
Si Hosa nga halin sa pamilya ni Merari may mga anak man. Ginhimo ni Hosa si Shimri nga pinakapangulo sang ila pamilya sang ila pamilya bisan indi siya ang iya kamagulangan nga anak.
Ang ikaduha kay Shimri amo si Hilkia, ang ikatatlo si Tebalia, kag ang ikaapat si Zacarias. 13 tanan ang mga anak kag mga paryente ni Hosa nga mga guwardya sa puwertahan sang templo nga mga guwardya sa puwertahan sang templo .
Gin-grupo ang mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo suno sa pangulo sang ila pamilya, kag may mga katungdanan sila sa pag-alagad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sang ila kapareho nga mga Levita nga mga Levita .
Naggabot-gabot sila kon sa diin nga puwertahan ang pagaguwardyahan sang ila mga pamilya, pamatan-on man ukon tigulang.
Ang sa east nga puwertahan nagabutan ni Shelemia,
Ang sa south nga puwertahan nagabutan ni Obed Edom, kag ang iya mga anak gintugyanan sang mga bodega.
May turno sila sa pagbantay:
Sa east anom ka guwardya ang nagabantay kada adlaw, sa north apat, sa south apat, kag sa kada bodega tag-duha.
Sa west apat ang nagabantay sa alagyan pataklad sa templo kag duha ang nagabantay sa ugsaran.
Amo ina sila ang grupo sang mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo nga mga kaliwat ni Kora kag Merari.
kag ang pito niya ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Zacarias, ang kamagulangan, dayon si Jediel, Zebadia, Jatniel,
Ang iban nga Levita
Si Ladan kaliwat ni Gershon kag amay ni Jehieli. Ang iban sa mga kaliwat ni Ladan mga pangulo man man sang ila kaliwat.
Ang mga anak ni Jehieli nga si Zetam kag si Joel amo ang gintugyanan sang mga bodega sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Amram Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Amram :
Ang iya mga paryente nga mga kaliwat ni Eliezer amo sila ni Rehabia, Jeshaya, Joram, Zicri, kag Shelomit.
Si Shelomit kag ang iya mga paryente amo ang gintugyanan sang tanan nga bodega sang mga ginhalad ni Haring David, sang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya, sang mga kumander sang linibo kag ginatos nga soldado, kag sang iban pa nga mga kumander.
Ginhalad nila ang iban nga nakuha nila sa inaway para gamiton sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Si Shelomit man kag ang iya mga paryente ang nagaasikaso sang tanan nga ginhalad ni Propeta Samuel, ni Saul nga anak ni Kish, ni Abner nga anak ni Ner, kag ni Joab nga anak ni Zeruya. Ang iban pa nga mga ginhalad gin-asikaso man nila.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Izhar: si Kenania kag ang iya mga anak nga lalaki, nga mga administrador kag mga manughukom sa Israel. Wala sila nagatrabaho sa templo.
Elam, Jehohanan, kag Eliehoenai.
Halin sa mga kaliwat ni Hebron: si Hashabia kag ang 1,700 niya nga mga paryente nga may mga abilidad. Gintugyanan sila sa pagdumala sang mga kadutaan sa west sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Sila ang nagaasikaso sang mga buluhaton sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang hari sa sina nga lugar.
Si Jeria ang pangulo sang mga kaliwat ni Hebron suno sa listahan sang ila mga pamilya. (Sang ika-40 nga tuig sang paghari ni David, gin-usisa ang mga listahan, kag nadiskobrehan nga may mga kaliwat si Hebron sa Jazer nga sakop sang Gilead, kag ini sila may mga abilidad.)
Si Jeria may 2,700 ka paryente nga may mga abilidad kag mga pangulo sang mga pamilya. Sila ang ginpadumala ni Haring David sa mga kaliwat ni Reuben, Gad, kag sa katunga nga tribo ni Manase. Kag sila ang nagaasikaso sang tanan nga buluhaton sang Dios kag sang hari sa sina nga mga lugar.
Kaupod man Kaupod man si Obed Edom kag ang walo niya ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Shemaya, ang kamagulangan, dayon si Jehozabad, Joa, Sacar, Netanel,
Amiel, Isacar, kag Peuletai. Ginpakamaayo sang Dios si Obed Edom.
Ang kamagulangan nga anak ni Obed Edom nga si Shemaya may mga anak nga lalaki nga mga pangulo sang mga pamilya, tungod kay may mga abilidad sila.
Sila amo si Otni, Refael, Obed, kag Elzabad. Ang ila paryente nga si Elihu kag si Semakia may mga abilidad man.
Sila tanan ang mga kaliwat ni Obed Edom. Sila kag ang ila mga anak kag mga paryente may ikasarang kag abilidad sa pag-obra. Ang ila kadamuon, Ang ila kadamuon, 62 tanan.
Ang 18 ka anak kag paryente ni Meshelemia may mga abilidad man.
Amo ini ang lista sang mga pangulo, mga kumander, kag mga opisyal sang mga Israelinhon nga nagaalagad sa hari bilang mga manugdumala sang grupo sang mga soldado nga nagaalagad sing isa ka bulan kada tuig. Ang kada grupo may 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado .
Si Helez nga taga-Pelon nga kaliwat ni Efraim amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikapito nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Si Sibecai nga taga-Husha nga kaliwat ni Zera amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikawalo nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Si Abiezer nga taga-Anatot nga kaliwat ni Benjamin amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikasiyam nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Si Maharai nga taga-Netofa nga kaliwat ni Zera amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikanapulo nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Si Benaya nga taga-Piraton nga kaliwat ni Efraim amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ika-11 nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Sa tribo ni Simeon: si Shefatia nga anak ni Maaca.
Sa kaliwat ni Aaron: si Zadok.
Sa tribo ni Isacar: si Omri nga anak ni Micael.
Sa tribo ni Naftali: si Jerimot nga anak ni Azriel.
Si Jashobeam nga anak ni Zabdiel amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa nahauna nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Sa katunga nga tribo ni Manase: si Joel nga anak ni Pedaya.
Sa tribo ni Benjamin: si Jaasiel nga anak ni Abner.
Sila ang mga opisyal sa mga tribo sang Israel.
Sang gin-census ni David ang mga tawo, wala niya ginlakip ang mga wala pa nagaedad sing 20 ka tuig, tungod nagpromisa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga padamuon gid niya ang mga Israelinhon pareho sa mga bituon sa langit.
Ginsuguran ni Joab nga anak ni Zeruya ang pag-census sa mga tawo pero wala niya ini matapos tungod nangakig ang Dios sa sini nga census. Gani wala malista sa listahan ni Haring David ang kabug-usan nga kadamuon sang mga Israelinhon.
Si Jonatan nga anak ni Uzia amo ang nagadumala sang mga bodega sa mga distrito, mga banwa, mga baryo, kag sa mga tore.
Si Ezri nga anak ni Kelub amo ang nagadumala sang mga nagaobra sa uma sang hari sang hari .
Si Zabdi nga taga-Shifam amo ang nagadumala sang mga ubas kag mga bino sang hari sang hari .
Si Joash amo ang nagadumala sang mga talaguan sang lana sang olibo sang olibo .
Si Shafat nga anak ni Adlai amo ang nagadumala sang mga baka sa mga kapatagan.
Kaliwat siya ni Perez kag pangulo sang tanan nga opisyal sang mga soldado sa nahauna nga bulan.
Si Jedea nga taga-Meronot amo ang nagadumala sang mga donkey.
Amo ini sila tanan ang mga opisyal nga nagadumala sang mga pagkabutang ni Haring David.
Si Jonatan nga tiyo ni Haring Haring David amo ang iya manuglaygay. Isa siya ka maalamon nga tawo kag manunulat. Si Jehiel nga anak ni Hacmoni amo ang manunudlo sang mga anak sang hari.
Si Ahitofel ang isa pa ka manuglaygay sang hari. Si Hushai nga Arkhanon malapit nga abyan sang hari.
Sang mapatay si Ahitofel, ginbuslan siya ni Jehoyada (nga anak ni Benaya) kag ni Abiatar. Si Joab amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sang hari.
Si Dodai nga kaliwat ni Ahoa amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikaduha nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo. Si Miklot amo ang pinakamataas niya nga opisyal sa iya grupo.
Si Benaya nga anak ni Jehoyada nga pari amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikatatlo nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Ining si Benaya amo ang maisog nga lider sang 30 ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David ka maisog nga mga tinawo ni David . Ang iya anak nga si Amizabad amo ang pinakamataas niya nga opisyal sa iya grupo.
Si Asahel nga utod ni Joab amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikaapat nga bulan. Ang iya anak nga si Zebadia amo ang nagbulos sa iya. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Si Ira nga anak ni Ikesh nga taga-Tekoa amo ang kumander sang mga soldado sa ikaanom nga bulan. May 24,000 ka soldado ka soldado sa iya grupo.
Karon, ginpatawag ni Haring Haring David sa Jerusalem ang tanan nga opisyal sang Israel: Ang mga opisyal sang mga tribo, ang mga kumander sang kada grupo sang mga soldado nga nagaalagad sa hari, ang iban pa nga mga kumander sang linibo kag ginatos nga soldado, ang mga opisyal nga nagadumala sang tanan nga pagkabutang kag kasapatan sang hari kag sang iya mga anak, ang mga opisyal sang palasyo, ang gamhanan nga mga tawo, kag ang tanan nga maayo nga mga soldado.
Gani Gani hunahunaa ini sing maayo. Ginpili ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpatindog sang templo para didto siya simbahon. Magpakabakod ka, kag himua ini nga buluhaton.”
Dayon ginhatag ni David kay Solomon ang tanan nga tanan nga plano sa pagpatindog sang templo kag sa iya sini nga balkon, mga building, mga bodega, mga kuwarto sa ibabaw, mga kuwarto sa sulod, kag ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar nga Labing Balaan nga Lugar nga sa diin ginapatawad ang mga sala sang tawo sang tawo .
Ginhatag ni David ining tanan nga plano nga gintudlo sa iya sang Espiritu
Gintudluan man niya si Solomon parte sa paggrupo sang mga pari kag mga Levita kag sa tanan nga buluhaton sa pag-alagad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , subong man sa tanan nga kagamitan sa pag-alagad.
Nagtudlo man siya kon pila kadamo nga pilak kag bulawan ang gamiton sa paghimo sang sini nga mga kagamitan:
sa bulawan nga mga suga kag mga bulutangan sini; sa pilak nga mga suga kag mga bulutangan sini;
sa bulawan nga mga lamisa nga ginabutangan sang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios; sa pilak nga mga lamisa;
sa bulawan nga mga tinidor nga dalagko; sa bulawan nga bulawan nga mga yahong kag mga pitsil; sa bulawan kag pilak nga mga pinggan;
kag sa bulawan nga halaran nga sulunugan sang insenso. Gintudluan man ni David si Solomon kon paano ang paghimo sang bulawan nga kerubin nga nagahumlad ang ila mga pakpak sa ibabaw sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si Haring David, Nagsiling si Haring David, “Ini nga mga plano ginsulat suno sa pagtuytoy sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag gintudluan niya ako kon paano ini tanan himuon.”
Sang nagatilipon na sila, Sang nagatilipon na sila, nagtindog si David kag nagsiling, “Pamatii ninyo ako, mga kauturan kag katawhan ko. Gusto ko gid magpatindog sang templo para butangan sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, para may tulungtungan ang iya tiil. Kag nakaplano na ako sa pagpatindog sini.
Nagsiling man si David sa iya anak nga si Solomon, “Magpakabakod ka kag magpakaisog. Suguri na ang pagpaobra. Indi ka magkahadlok ukon magkaluya, kay ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios, ang akon Dios, kaupod mo. Indi ka niya pagbayaan ukon pagpabay-an hasta matapos ang tanan nga obra para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Preparado na ang grupo sang mga pari kag mga Levita para sa tanan nga obra sa templo sang Dios, kag may mga tawo man nga may mga abilidad sa pag-obra sa bisan ano nga buluhaton nga handa sa pagbulig sa imo. Ang mga opisyal kag ang tanan nga tawo handa sa pagtuman sa imo.”
Pero nagsiling ang Dios sa akon, ‘Indi ikaw ang magapatindog sang templo para sa akon kadungganan, tungod kay isa ikaw ka soldado kag madamo ang imo ginpamatay.’
Pero sa pihak sina, ginpili ako sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, halin sa bilog namon nga pamilya nga mangin hari sang Israel hasta san-o.
Ginhatagan niya ako sang madamo nga anak nga lalaki, kag halin sa ila, ginpili niya si Solomon sa paghari sa iya ginharian nga amo ang Israel.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, ‘Ang imo anak nga si Solomon amo ang magapatindog sang akon templo kag sang iya sini mga ugsaran. Kay ginpili ko siya nga mangin akon anak, kag ako mangin iya amay.
Kag kon magpadayon siya sa pagsunod sang akon mga sugo pareho sang iya ginahimo subong, paharion ko ang iya mga kaliwat hasta san-o.’
“Gani karon, ginamanduan ko kamo sa atubangan sang tanan nga Israelinhon, ang komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag sa presensya sang aton Dios, nga tumana ninyo sing maayo ang tanan nga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Kon himuon ninyo ini, padayon ninyo nga panag-iyahan ining maayo nga duta, kag maipapanubli ninyo ini sa inyo mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
“Kag ikaw, Solomon nga anak ko, kilalaha kag alagara ang Dios sang imo amay sa bug-os mo nga tagipusuon kag hunahuna, kay nakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tagsa ka tagipusuon kag nahibaluan niya ang aton motibo kag panghunahuna. Kon magdangop ka sa iya, buligan ka niya; pero kon magbiya ka sa iya, sikwayon ka niya hasta san-o.
Dayon nagsiling si Haring David sa bilog nga komunidad sang Israel sang Israel , “Si Solomon nga akon anak nga ginpili sang Dios bataon pa kag wala sing eksperiensya. Dako ang buluhaton, kay ang patindugon nga building indi para sa tawo kundi para sa Ginoong Ginoong Dios.
“O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang amon katigulangan nga si Jacob,
Gamhanan ka gid, talahuron, dungganon, kag dalayawon. Kay imo ang tanan nga butang sa langit kag sa duta. Ikaw ang hari, O Ginoo Ginoo , kag labaw ka sa tanan.
Ang manggad kag dungog naghalin sa imo. Ikaw ang nagadumala sang tanan nga butang. Gamhanan ka gid, kag ikaw ang nagapakusog kag nagapagamhanan sa kay bisan sin-o.
“Karon, O amon Dios, ginapasalamatan ka namon kag ginadayaw ang imo talahuron nga ngalan.
Pero sin-o gid ako kag ang akon katawhan nga makahatag kami sing bugana pareho sini? Tanan nga butang nagahalin sa imo, kag ginahatag lang namon ang naghalin sa imo.
Nakahibalo ikaw nga pangayaw lang kami diri sa kalibutan pareho sang amon mga katigulangan. Ang amon kabuhi pareho sa landong nga wala nagapabilin.
“O Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, ining tanan nga ginhatag namon sa pagpatindog sang templo para sa kadungganan sang imo balaan nga ngalan naghalin man man sa imo. Imo ini tanan!
O Dios ko, nahibaluan ko nga ginausisa mo ang amon tagipusuon kag nalipay ka kon makita mo nga matarong ini. Amo ina nga Amo ina nga sinsero kag kinabubut-on ang paghatag ko sang sini nga mga butang. Kag bisan ang imo katawhan nga ari diri subong nakita ko nga nagahatag man sing kinabubut-on. Gani nalipay gid ako.
“O Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang amon mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob, kabay pa nga ibutang mo permi ini nga handom sa tagipusuon sang imo katawhan, kag buligi sila nga magmatutom sa imo.
Kag buligi man ang akon anak nga si Solomon nga mangin matutom gid siya sa pagtuman sang imo mga sugo, mga pagpanudlo, kag mga pagsulundan, kag sa paghimo sang tanan nga imo ginapatuman parte sa pagpatindog sang templo nga akon ginpreparar.”
Ginhimo ko ang tanan nga akon mahimo sa pagpreparar sang mga materyales para sa templo sang akon Dios—madamo nga bulawan, pilak, saway, salsalon, kahoy, malahalon nga mga bato nga onix, esmeralda, mga bato nga nagkalain-lain ang kolor, kag iban pa nga matahom nga mga bato kag mga marmol.
Dayon nagsiling si David sa bilog nga komunidad, “Dayawa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.” Gani gindayaw nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan. Nagluhod sila kag nagduko sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sa hari.
Pagkadason nga adlaw naghalad sila sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog: 1,000 ka turo nga baka, 1,000 ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 1,000 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki. Naghalad man sila sang mga halad nga ilimnon kag sang madamo pa nga mga halad para sa bilog nga Israel.
Kag sa liwat, gindeklarar nila nga hari si Solomon nga anak ni David. Ginhaplasan si Solomon sang lana sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang hari, kag ginhaplasan man si Zadok bilang pari.
Gani nagpungko si Solomon sa trono sang Ginoo Ginoo bilang hari sa pagbulos sa iya amay nga si David. Nagmainuswagon si Solomon, kag nagtuman sa iya ang bilog nga Israel.
Nagpromisa ang tanan nga opisyal, ang gamhanan nga mga tawo, kag ang tanan nga anak nga lalaki ni Haring David nga magpasakop sila kay Haring Solomon.
Ginpabantog sang Ginoo Ginoo si Solomon sa bilog nga Israel kag ginhatagan niya siya sang kadungganan nga wala maangkon sang iban nga mga hari sa Israel.
Nagkabuhi siya sing malawig nga manggaranon kag dungganon. Napatay siya nga tigulang na gid, kag ginbuslan siya sang iya anak nga si Solomon bilang hari.
Ang estorya parte sa paghari ni Haring David, halin sa ginsuguran hasta sa katapusan, nasulat sa mga libro sang mga propeta nga sila ni Samuel, Natan kag Gad.
Kag tungod sa akon dedikasyon sa templo sang akon Dios, ginahatag ko ang akon personal nga mga bulawan kag pilak para sa pagpatindog sini, wala labot sa mga materyales nga natipon ko na para sa balaan nga templo.
Nasulat dira kon paano siya naghari, ano siya kagamhanan, kag ang tanan nga natabo sa iya kag sa Israel, kag sa palibot nga mga ginharian.
Ang akon ihatag Ang akon ihatag mga 100 ka tonelada nga bulawan halin sa Ofir, kag mga 250 ka tonelada nga pilak. Ini gamiton para inughaklap sa mga dingding sang templo,
kag para sa tanan nga kagamitan nga pagahimuon sang mga platero. Karon, sin-o ang luyag maghatag para sa Ginoo Ginoo ?”
Dayon naghatag sing kinabubut-on ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya, mga pangulo sang mga tribo sang Israel, mga kumander sang linibo kag ginatos nga soldado, kag ang mga opisyal nga gintugyanan sa pagdumala sang mga pagkabutang sang hari.
Naghatag sila para sa pag-obra sang templo sang Dios sing mga 175 ka tonelada nga bulawan, 10,000 ka bulawan nga kuwarta, 350 ka tonelada nga pilak, 630 ka tonelada nga saway, kag 3,500 ka tonelada nga salsalon.
May mga naghatag man sang mga malahalon nga mga bato, kag gintago ini sa bodega sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga gindumalahan ni Jehiel nga kaliwat ni Gershon.
Nalipay gid ang mga tawo sa ila mga pangulo kay naghatag sila sing kinabubut-on kag tinagipusuon para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Puwerte man ang kalipay ni Haring David.
Nangin mabakod ang paghari ni Solomon nga anak ni David sa iya ginharian kay kaupod niya ang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, kag ginhimo niya siya nga gamhanan gid.
Hatagi ako sang kaalam kag ihibalo para madumalahan ko ini nga katawhan. Kay sin-o bala ang makasarang sa pagdumala sining imo katawhan nga puwerte kadamo?”
Nagsiling ang Dios kay Solomon, “Tungod nagpangayo ka sang kaalam kag ihibalo sa pagdumala sa akon katawhan nga ginapaharian ko sa imo kag wala ka nagpangayo sang manggad ukon dungog ukon kamatayon sang imo mga kaaway ukon malawig nga kabuhi,
ihatag ko sa imo ang imo ginapangayo. Kag indi lang ina kundi hatagan ko pa ikaw sang madamo gid nga manggad kag dungog nga wala pa maangkon ni bisan sin-o nga hari nga una sa imo kag indi man maangkon sang masunod pa nga mga hari.”
Dayon naghalin si Solomon sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan didto sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar sa Gibeon, kag nagbalik sa Jerusalem. Kag naghari siya sa Israel.
Nakatipon si Solomon sang 1,400 ka karwahe kag 12,000 ka kabayo.
Sang panahon nga siya ang hari, ang pilak kag bulawan sa Jerusalem daw pareho lang ka ordinaryo lang ka ordinaryo sa mga bato, kag ang kahoy nga sedro daw pareho kabugana sa ordinaryo nga mga ordinaryo nga mga kahoy nga sikomoro sa mga bulobukid sa west.
Karon, nagpakighambal si Solomon sa tanan nga Israelinhon, sa mga kumander sang mga linibo kag ginatos nga soldado, sa mga manughukom, sa tanan nga pangulo sang Israel, kag sa tanan nga pangulo sang mga pamilya.
Dayon naglakat si Solomon kag ang bilog nga komunidad pakadto sa simbahan sa mataas nga lugar sa Gibeon, kay didto ang Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan sang Dios. Ini nga Tolda ginpahimo ni Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kamingawan.
Sadto nga tion nasaylo na ni David ang Kahon sang Dios halin sa Kiriat Jearim pakadto sa tolda nga iya ginpreparar para sa sini didto sa Jerusalem.
Pero ang saway nga halaran nga ginhimo ni Bezalel nga anak ni Uri kag apo ni Hur ara sa Gibeon sa Gibeon sa atubangan sang Tolda sang Ginoo Ginoo . Gani didto nagtipon si Solomon kag ang komunidad sa pagpamangkot sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagsaka si Solomon sa saway nga halaran sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa Tolda nga Ginapakigkitaan, kag naghalad siya sang 1,000 ka halad nga ginasunog.
Sadto nga gab-i nagpakita ang Dios kay Solomon kag nagsiling sa iya, “Pangayo sang bisan ano nga gusto mo nga ihatag ko sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Solomon, “Ginpakitaan mo sang dako nga kaayo ang akon amay nga si David, kag karon ginbulos mo ako sa iya bilang hari.
Karon, Ginoong Ginoong Dios, tumana ang imo ginpromisa sa akon amay nga si David, kay ginhimo mo ako nga hari sa katawhan nga daw pareho kadamo sa balas.
Karon, nagmando si Solomon sa pagpatindog sang templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa pagpatindog sang palasyo para sa iya kaugalingon.
Bayaran ko ang imo mga manug-utod sang kahoy sing mga 60,000 ka sako nga trigo, 60,000 ka sako nga barley, 110,000 ka galon nga bino, kag 110,000 ka galon nga lana sang olibo.”
“Tungod ginahigugma sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya katawhan ginhimo niya ikaw nga ila hari.
Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel nga naghimo sang kalangitan kag kalibutan! Ginhatagan niya si Haring David sang maalamon nga anak, nga puno sang ihibalo kag pag-intiendi, nga magapatindog sang templo para sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sang palasyo para sa iya kaugalingon.
“Ipadala ko sa imo si Huram Abi, nga isa ka maayo gid nga manug-obra.
Ang iya iloy halin sa Dan kag ang iya amay taga-Tyre. Eksperto siya sa pag-obra sa bulawan, pilak, saway, salsalon, bato, kag kahoy, kag sa paghimo sang tela nga granate, asul kag pula, kag maayo nga klase nga linen. Eksperiensyado siya sa bisan ano nga klase sang pag-inggrebar, kag makahimo siya sang bisan ano nga klase sang desinyo nga ipahimo mo sa iya. Magaobra siya upod sa imo mga manug-obra kag sa mga manug-obra nga ginpili sang talahuron nga si David, nga imo amay.
“Karon, talahuron nga Solomon, nga Solomon, ipadala sa amon ang trigo, barley, bino, kag lana sang olibo nga imo ginpromisa
kag utdon namon ang bisan ano nga kahoy sa Lebanon nga imo kinahanglan. Dayon pangtabiron namon ini nga daw sa balsa kag palutawon sa dagat pakadto sa Jopa. Kag kamo na ang magdala sini sa Jerusalem.”
Gin-census ni Solomon ang tanan nga pangayaw sa Israel pareho sang ginhimo ni David nga iya amay, kag ang kadamuon 153,600.
Ginhimo niya ang 70,000 sa ila nga mga manughakot, ang 80,000 mga manugbasbas sang mga bato sa kabukiran, kag ang 3,600 mga porman sa pagdumala sa mga trabahador.
Nagpatipon siya sang 70,000 ka manughakot, 80,000 ka manugbasbas sang mga bato sa kabukiran, kag 3,600 ka porman.
Nagpadala si Solomon sang sini nga mensahi kay Haring Hiram
Mapatindog ako sang templo para sa kadungganan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios. Mangin balaan ini nga lugar nga sulunugan sang mahamot nga mga insenso kag halaran permi sang balaan nga tinapay. Diri man magahalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kada aga kag gab-i, kag sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, sa Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan kag sa iban pa nga natalana nga mga piesta sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios. Ini nga pagsulundan dapat tumanon sang mga Israelinhon hasta san-o.
“Dako gid nga templo ang patindugon ko, tungod kay gamhanan ang amon Dios sang sa iban nga mga dios.
Pero sin-o gid bala ang makasarang sa pagpatindog sang templo para sa iya? Kay indi siya gani makaigo sa langit, bisan sa pinakamataas nga parte sang langit. Gani sin-o gid ako nga makapatindog sang templo para sa iya? Ang mapatindog ko lang amo ang lugar nga sulunugan sang mga halad sa iya presensya.
Gani karon, padal-i ako sang tawo nga maayo mag-obra sa bulawan, pilak, saway, salsalon, kag maayo sa paghimo sang tela
Padal-i man ako sang mga kahoy nga sedro, sipres, kag algum halin sa Lebanon, kay nahibaluan ko nga maayo ang imo mga tinawo sa pagpang-utod sang kahoy. Magabulig ang akon mga tinawo sa imo mga tinawo
sa pagpreparar sang madamo gid nga mga kahoy, tungod kay dako kag matahom ang templo nga akon patindugon.
Karon gin-umpisahan na ni Solomon ang pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem didto sa Bukid sang Moria, nga sa diin nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya amay nga si David. Didto niya ini ginpatindog sa linasan ni Arauna nga Jebusnon, ang lugar nga ginpreparar ni David.
Nagpahimo si Solomon sa sulod sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar sang duha ka kerubin kag ginpahaklapan niya ini sang bulawan.
Ang kurtina nga nagatabon sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar nga nagatabon sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar hinimo halin sa maayo nga klase nga linen nga ginbordahan sang delana nga asul, granate kag pula, kag may borda nga kerubin.
Naghimo man si Solomon sang duha ka haligi sa atubangan sang templo nga ang kataason sang kada isa 52 feet. Ang kada haligi may ulo-ulo nga ang kataason 7 feet kag 6 inches.
Ang kada ulo-ulo nadekorasyunan sang mga kulokadena nga nagatinabid nga may nagakabit nga mga puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata. Ini nga mga dekorasyon 100 ka bilog.
Ginpatindog niya ang mga haligi sa atubangan sang templo. Ang haligi sa south gin-ngalanan niya nga Jakin, kag ang haligi sa north gin-ngalanan niya nga Boaz.
Gin-umpisahan niya ini patindog sang ikaduha nga adlaw sang ikaduha nga bulan, sang ikaapat nga tuig sang iya paghari.
Ang pundasyon sang templo sang Dios may kalabaon nga 90 feet kag kasangkaron nga 30 feet.
Ang kalabaon sang balkon sa atubangan sang templo 30 feet, pareho mismo sa kasangkaron sang templo, kag ang kataason 30 feet man. Ginpahaklapan ni Solomon ang sulod sini sang puro nga bulawan.
Ginpadingdingan niya ang mayor sang templo sang kahoy nga sipres kag ginpahaklapan sang puro nga bulawan, kag ginpadekorasyunan sang mga desinyo nga palma kag mga kadena.
Ginpadekorasyunan man niya ang templo sang malahalon nga mga bato kag bulawan nga naghalin pa sa Parvaim.
Ginpahaklapan niya sang bulawan ang mga balayan, mga puwertahan kag mga hamba sini, kag mga dingding. Kag ginpainggreban niya sang kerubin ang mga dingding.
Ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar may kasangkaron nga 30 feet kag may kalabaon nga 30 feet man, nga pareho mismo sa kasangkaron sang templo. Ang sulod sini ginhaklapan sing mga 21 ka tonelada nga bulawan.
Ang mga lansang nga gin-gamit ginhaklapan man sang ginhaklapan man sang bulawan nga mga tunga sa kilo. Ang mga dingding sang mga kuwarto sa ibabaw ginhaklapan man sang bulawan.
Nagpahimo man si Solomon sang saway nga halaran nga 30 feet kuwadrado kag 15 feet ang kataason.
Ginbutang niya ang suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag Dagat sa southeast nga corner sang templo.
Natapos gid man ang tanan nga ginpahimo ni Solomon kay Huram para sa templo sang Dios. Amo ini ang iya mga ginpahimo Amo ini ang iya mga ginpahimo :
ang 400 ka puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata (nagakabit ang duha ka raya sini sa kada nagatinabid nga mga kulokadena nga nagapalibot sa ulo-ulo sang mga haligi);
ang mga karo kag mga labador sini;
Ginpahimo ini ni Haring Solomon Solomon paagi sa hurmahan nga didto sa Kapatagan sang Jordan, sa tunga sang Sucot kag Zaretan.
Tama gid kadamo ang mga saway nga gin-gamit ni Solomon, gani wala mahibalui kon pila ini tanan ka kilo.
ang mga lamisa nga ginabutangan sang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios;
Nagpahimo man siya sang dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga daw kawa, nga ginatawag ginatawag Dagat. Ang kadalumon sini 7 feet kag 6 inches, ang kasangkaron 15 feet, kag ang takos palibot 45 feet.
ang mga tulungtungan sang suga nga puro bulawan kag ang mga suga sini nga ginapasiga sa atubangan sang Labing Balaan nga lugar suno sa pagsulundan parte sini;
ang dekorasyon nga mga bulak, ang mga suga kag ang mga kimpit, nga puro tanan bulawan;
ang mga puwertahan sang templo kag ang mga puwertahan pasulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, nga nahaklapan sang bulawan.
Napalibutan ini sang duha ka raya sang dekorasyon sa ubos lang sang baba sini. Ini nga mga dekorasyon daw mga turo nga baka kag may ara sang anom sini sa kada 1 foot palibot, kag naporma na ini nga daan upod sa suludlan sang pagkahimo sini.
Ang kadamulon sang suludlan 3 inches, kag ang baba sini daw pareho sa baba sang tasa nga nagakurba paguwa nagakurba paguwa pareho sa nagabuskad nga lily. Kag puwede ini masudlan sang mga 17,500 ka galon nga tubig.
Nagpahimo man siya sang napulo ka labador para hulugasan sang mga halad nga ginasunog. Ginbutang ang lima sa south kag ang lima sa north. Ang tubig sa suludlan nga ginatawag tubig sa suludlan nga ginatawag Dagat amo ang ginagamit sang mga pari para magpanghugas sang ila kaugalingon.
Nagpahimo man siya sang napulo ka bulutangan sang suga nga bulawan suno sa plano, kag ginbutang ini sa templo, lima sa south kag lima sa north.
Nagpahimo man siya sang napulo ka lamisa kag ginbutang ini sa templo, lima sa south kag lima sa north. Nagpahimo man siya sang 100 ka yahong nga bulawan nga ginagamit sa pagpangwisik nga ginagamit sa pagpangwisik .
Nagpahimo man siya sang ugsaran sang mga pari kag malapad nga ugsaran sa guwa. Ginpahimuan niya sang mga puwertahan ang mga alagyan pasulod sa ugsaran kag ginpahaklapan sang saway.
Sang matapos na ni Solomon ang tanan nga obra sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , gindala niya sa mga bodega sang templo ang mga butang nga gindedikar sang iya amay nga si David—ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, kag ang tanan nga kagamitan.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagguwa ang mga pari sa Balaan nga Lugar. Ang tanan nga pari nga ara didto nagpakatinlo,
Ang mga musikero nga mga Levita nga sila ni Asaf, Heman, Jedutun, kag ang ila mga anak nga lalaki kag mga paryente nagtindog sa east sang halaran. Nagabayo sila sang maayo nga klase nga linen kag nagatukar sang mga cymbals, arpa, kag lira. Ginaupdan sila sang 120 ka pari nga nagatrumpeta.
Dayon may panganod nga naglikop sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpatawag ni Haring Haring Solomon sa Jerusalem ang mga manugdumala sang Israel kag ang tanan nga pangulo sang mga tribo kag mga pamilya sa Israel sa pagkuha sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa Zion, ang Banwa ni David.
Nagkadto sila tanan kay Haring Solomon Solomon sang tion sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag , sang ikapito nga bulan.
Dayon gindala sang mga pari ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya nga lugar didto sa pinakasulod sang templo, sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, kag ginbutang kag ginbutang sa idalom sang mga pakpak sang mga kerubin.
Ini nga mga tukon puwerte kalaba, nga ang iya mga punta nga lapaw sa Kahon makita sa Balaan nga Lugar, sa atubangan sang pinakasulod sang templo, pero indi ini makita sa guwa sang Balaan nga Lugar. Kag ari pa ini hasta subong.
Didto ko ginbutang ang Kahon nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya ginhimo sa katawhan sang Israel.”
Sa presensya sang bilog nga komunidad sang Israel, nagtindog si Solomon sa atubangan sang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginbayaw niya ang iya mga kamot.
Nagtindog siya sa saway nga entablado nga iya ginpahimo. Ini nga entablado may kalabaon kag kasangkaron nga 7 feet kag 6 inches, kag may kataason nga 4 feet kag 6 inches. Pagkatapos nagluhod si Solomon sa atubangan sang komunidad sang Israel nga nagabayaw sang iya mga kamot.
“O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, wala sing Dios nga pareho sa imo sa langit ukon sa duta. Ginatuman mo ang imo kasugtanan kag ginapakita mo ang imo gugma sa imo mga alagad nga nagasunod sa imo sa bug-os nila nga tagipusuon.
Kag karon, Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, tumana pa gid ang imo ginpromisa sa imo alagad nga si David nga akon amay sang nagsiling ka sa iya, ‘Indi ka madulaan sang kaliwat nga magabulos sa imo bilang hari sa Israel kon maayo lang ang pagsunod sang imo mga kaliwat sa akon kasuguan pareho sang imo ginhimo.’
Gani karon, O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, tumana ang imo ginpromisa sa imo alagad nga si David nga akon amay nga akon amay .
“Pero makaestar gid bala ikaw, O Dios, diri sa kalibutan upod sa mga tawo? Indi gani ikaw makaigo sa langit bisan sa pinakamataas nga parte sang langit, ano pa ayhan sa templo nga ginpatindog ko?
Pero pamatii ako nga imo alagad sa akon pagpangamuyo kag pagpakitluoy. O Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, pamatii ang akon pagpanawag kag pagpangamuyo sa imo presensya.
Pamatii ang akon mga pangabay kag ang mga pangabay sang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon samtang nagapangamuyo kami nga nagaatubang sa sini nga lugar. Pamatii kami dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit. Kag kon mabatian mo kami, patawara kami kami .
“Kon ang isa ka tawo gin-akusar nga nakasala sa iya isigkatawo, kag ginpakadto siya sa imo halaran sa sini nga templo sa pagsumpa nga inosente siya nga inosente siya ,
pamatii ini nga kaso ini nga kaso dira sa langit kag hukmi ang imo mga alagad. Siluti ang nakasala suno sa iya binuhatan, kag hilwaya ang wala sing sala para magaguwa nga inosente siya.
“Kon may mag-abot nga gutom sa duta sang imo katawhan sang imo katawhan , ukon kahalitan, ukon mainit nga hangin, ukon peste sa mga tanom pati na mga apan kag mga ulod, ukon kibunon sila sang mga kaaway sa bisan diin sa ila mga banwa, ukon mag-abot sa ila ang bisan ano nga balatian,
kag kon may ara sa ila nga magpangamuyo ukon magpangabay sa imo, pamatii sila pamatii sila . Kon ginakilala nila nga tungod sa ila mga sala nag-abot ining mga pag-antos kag kasakit sa ila, kag magpangamuyo sila nga nagabayaw sang ila mga kamot, nga nagaatubang sa sini nga templo,
pamatii sila dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit. Patawara sila, kag himua sa kada isa sa ila ang nagakabagay sa ila mga binuhatan, kay nahibaluan mo ang tagsa nila ka tagipusuon. Matuod nga ikaw gid lang ang nakahibalo sang tagipusuon sang tanan nga tawo.
Himua ina Himua ina para magtahod sila sa imo kag magsunod sa imo mga pamaagi samtang nagaestar sila sa duta nga ginhatag mo sa amon mga katigulangan.
“Kon ang mga mga indi Israelinhon nga nagaestar sa malayo nga lugar makabati sang imo pagkabantog kag pagkagamhanan, kag magkadto sila diri kag magpangamuyo sila nga nagaatubang sa sini nga templo,
pamatii sila dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit. Kag himua ang bisan ano nga ila ginapangabay, para ang tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan makakilala sa imo kag magtahod sa imo pareho sang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon, kag para mahibaluan nila nga ginpatindog ko ini nga templo para sa imo kadungganan.
“Kon ang imo katawhan magalakat sa pagpakig-away suno sa imo mando, kag kon magpangamuyo sila sa imo nga nagaatubang sa sini nga siyudad nga imo ginpili kag sa templo nga templo nga akon ginpatindog para sa imo kadungganan,
“Kon makasala sila sa imo—kay wala man sing bisan sin-o nga wala nagakasala—kag sa imo kaakig ginpapierdi mo sila sa ila mga kaaway kag ginbihag nila sila sa malayo ukon sa malapit nga lugar,
pamatii ang ila pangamuyo pamatii ang ila pangamuyo . Kon magbalik sila sa imo sa bug-os nila nga tagipusuon kag hunahuna didto sa lugar nga sa diin ginbihag sila, kag magpangamuyo sila nga nagaatubang sa sini nga duta nga ginhatag mo sa ila mga katigulangan, sa sini nga siyudad nga imo ginpili, kag sa templo nga akon ginpatindog para sa imo kadungganan,
pamatii ang ila mga pangamuyo kag mga pangabay dira sa imo puluy-an sa langit, kag hatagi sila sang kadalag-an. Patawara sila sa ila mga sala kontra sa imo.
“O Dios ko, kabay pa nga talupangdon mo ang mga pangamuyo nga ginahimo sa sini nga lugar.
“Kag karon, Ginoong Ginoong Dios, kadto ka na sa templo sa templo , sa lugar nga imo palahuwayan, nga sa diin nabutang ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan nga simbolo sang Kasugtanan nga simbolo sang imo gahom. Kabay pa nga maeksperiensyahan sang imo mga pari ang imo pagluwas sa ila, kag magkalipay ang imo matutom nga katawhan sa imo kaayo.
O Ginoong Ginoong Dios, indi pag-isikway ang imo pinili nga hari. Dumduma ang imo gugma kay David nga imo alagad.”
‘Halin sang tion nga ginpaguwa ko ang akon katawhan sa Egypt, wala ako nagpili sang siyudad sa bisan ano nga tribo sang Israel agod patindugan sang templo para sa akon kadungganan, kag wala man ako nagpili sang hari nga magdumala sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Pero karon ginpili ko ang Jerusalem bilang lugar nga sa diin padunggan ako, kag ginpili ko si David nga magdumala sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.’
Pagkatapos pangamuyo ni Solomon, may kalayo nga nagpanaog halin sa langit nga naglamon sang halad nga ginasunog kag sang iban pa nga mga halad, kag ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo naglikop sa templo.
Pagkasunod nga adlaw, nga amo ang ika-23 nga adlaw sang ikapito nga bulan, ginpapuli ni Solomon ang mga tawo. Nagpalauli sila nga malipayon gid tungod sa tanan nga tanan nga kaayo nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay David kag kay Solomon, kag sa iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Gani natapos ni Solomon ang pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya palasyo. Nahuman niya ang tanan niya nga ginplano para sa sini.
Dayon isa ka gab-i, nagpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya kag nagsiling, “Nabatian ko ang imo pangamuyo kag ginpili ko ini nga templo bilang lugar nga halaran sang mga halad.
“Halimbawa indi ko pagpaulanon, ukon padal-an ko sang mga apan ang duta sa pagkaon sang mga tanom sini, ukon padal-an ko ang akon katawhan sang kahalitan,
kag kon ang akon katawhan nga akon gintawag
Talupangdon ko sila kag pamatian ang ila mga pangamuyo sa sini nga lugar,
kay ang ini nga templo ginpili ko kag ginseparar para sa akon agod mangin lugar nga sa diin padunggan ako hasta san-o. Bantayan ko ini kag atipanon permi.
“Kag ikaw, kon magsunod ka sa akon pareho sang imo amay nga si David, kag kon himuon mo ang tanan nga ginapahimo ko sa imo kag tumanon ang akon mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo,
paharion ko ang imo mga kaliwat hasta san-o hasta san-o . Amo man ini ang akon ginpromisa sa imo amay nga si David sang ginsilingan ko siya, ‘Indi ka madulaan sang kaliwat nga magahari sa Israel.’
Pero kon magtalikod kamo kag indi magtuman sang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag ko sa inyo, kag kon mag-alagad kamo kag magsimba sa iban nga mga dios,
Indi makasulod ang mga pari sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo naglikop sa templo.
pahalinon ko kamo sa akon duta nga ginhatag sa inyo, kag sikwayon ko ining templo nga ginpili ko nga lugar nga sa diin padunggan ako. Dayon yagutaon kag kadlawan ini sang tanan nga tawo.
Kag bisan matahom kag bantog ining templo, gub-on ko ini gub-on ko ini . Makibot kag matingala gid ang tanan nga magaagi diri kag magasiling, ‘Ngaa ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sini nga duta kag sa sini nga templo?’
Magasabat ang iban, ‘Tungod kay ginsikway nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan, nga nagpaguwa sa ila sa Egypt, kag nag-alagad sila kag nagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Amo ina nga ginpadal-an sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang sina nga mga kalaglagan.’ ”
ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.”
Dayon naghalad sa Ginoo Ginoo si Haring Solomon Solomon kag ang tanan nga katawhan.
Naghalad sila sing 22,000 ka baka kag 120,000 ka karnero kag kanding. Sa sini nga paagi, gindedikar sang hari kag sang tanan nga katawhan ang templo sang Dios.
Nagpuwesto ang mga pari sa templo sa templo , kag amo man ang mga Levita nga nagakanta, “Ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.” Ginatukaran nila ang kanta sang mga instrumento nga ginpahimo ni Haring David sa pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo . Sa atubangan sang mga Levita, ang mga pari nagapatunog man sang ila mga trumpeta samtang nagatindog ang tanan nga Israelinhon.
Gindedikar ni Solomon ang ugsaran nga ara sa atubangan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Naghalad sila ni Solomon didto sang mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga regalo, kag mga tambok nga bilang halad para sa maayo nga relasyon. Kay ang saway nga halaran nga iya ginpahimo tama kagamay para sa sini nga mga halad.
Nagsaulog pa gid si Solomon kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sing pito ka adlaw. Madamo gid nga mga katawhan ang nagtilipon halin sa Lebo Hamat sa north sa north hasta sa ililigan sang tubig sang Egypt sa south sa south .
Sang ikawalo nga adlaw, naghiwat sila sang katapusan nga pagtilipon, kay ginselebrar nila ang pagdedikar sang halaran kag sang bilog nga templo kag sang bilog nga templo sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, kag ang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sa sulod man sang pito ka adlaw.
Pagkatapos sang 20 ka tuig nga pagpatindog ni Solomon sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya palasyo,
Ang 250 sa ila ginhimo ni Haring Solomon nga mga opisyal nga nagadumala sang mga nagaobra sa iya mga proyekto.
Dayon naghalad si Solomon sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog didto sa halaran nga iya ginpatindog sa atubangan sang balkon sang templo.
Gintuman niya ang sugo ni Moises nga maghalad suno sa kinahanglan nga ihalad kada adlaw kag sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, sa Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, kag sa sining tatlo ka natalana nga mga piesta kada tuig: ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok, ang Piesta sang Pag-ani, kag ang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag.
Kag suno sa pagsulundan sang iya amay nga si David, gin-grupo niya ang mga pari kag mga Levita para sa ila mga buluhaton. Ang mga Levita amo ang nagapanguna sa mga tawo sa pagdayaw sa Dios sa Dios kag sila ang nagabulig sa mga pari sa ila buluhaton sa templo sa templo kada adlaw. Gin-grupo man niya ang mga guwardya sang tagsa ka puwertahan sang templo sang templo , kay amo ini ang sugo ni David nga alagad sang Dios.
Gintuman gid nila ni Solomon ang tanan nga sugo ni Haring David David parte sa mga pari kag mga Levita kag sa mga bodega.
Natapos ang tanan nga ginpahimo ni Solomon sa templo halin sang pagbutang sang pundasyon hasta sang pagkahuman sini.
Dayon nagkadto si Solomon sa Ezion Geber kag sa Elat, sa baybayon sang Mapula nga Dagat, sa duta sang Mapula nga Dagat, sa duta sang Edom.
Ginpadal-an siya ni Hiram sang mga barko nga ginadumalahan sang iya mismo mga opisyal nga mga eksperiensyado nga mga marinero. Ini sila nagbiyahe upod sa mga tinawo ni Solomon pakadto sa Ofir. Kag sang pagbalik nila may dala sila nga mga 16 ka tonelada nga bulawan, kag gindala nila ini kay Haring Solomon.
ginpatindog niya liwat ang mga banwa nga ginhatag sa iya ni Hiram
Amo man ini ang tion nga ginsalakay ni Solomon kag gin-agaw ang Hamat Zoba.
Ginpatindog man niya liwat ang Tadmor nga ara sa kamingawan kag ang mga banwa sa Hamat nga bulutangan sang mga bodega.
Ginpabakod niya ang ibabaw kag idalom nga parte sang Bet Horon. Ginpalibutan niya ini sang mga pader kag ginpabutangan sang mga puwertahan nga may mga trangka.
Amo man ang ginhimo niya sa Baalat kag sa iban pa nga mga banwa nga bulutangan sang iya mga bodega, mga karwahe kag mga kabayo. Ginpatindog niya ang tanan nga luyag niya patindugon sa Jerusalem, sa Lebanon, kag sa tanan nga duta nga sakop niya.
Sang mabatian sang rayna sang Sheba ang pagkabantog ni Solomon, nagkadto siya sa Jerusalem para testingan ang kaalam ni Solomon paagi sa mabudlay nga mga pamangkot. Nag-abot siya sa Jerusalem nga may upod nga madamo nga tinawo, kag may dala siya nga mga camel nga kargado sang mga regalo nga regalo nga panakot, bulawan nga puwerte kadamo, kag malahalon nga mga bato. Pagkitaay nila ni Solomon, ginpamangkot niya siya sang tanan nga gusto niya nga ipamangkot.
May dala man ang mga tinawo ni Haring Haring Solomon kag ang mga tinawo ni Hiram sang mga bulawan, mga kahoy nga almug, kag malahalon nga mga bato halin sa Ofir.
Gin-gamit ni Haring Solomon Solomon ang mga kahoy nga almug nga mga hagdanan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa palasyo, kag ang iban ginhimo nga mga arpa kag mga lira para sa mga musikero. Wala gid sing pareho sina
Ginhatag ni Haring Solomon sa rayna sang Sheba ang bisan ano nga ginpangayo niya. Mas sobra pa ang ginhatag ni Solomon sa iya sang sa gindala niya. Dayon nagpuli ang rayna sa iya lugar upod sang iya mga tinawo.
wala labot sa mga buhis nga halin sa mga negosyante. Nagahatag man sa iya sang mga bulawan kag pilak ang tanan nga hari sang Arabia kag ang mga gobernador sang Israel.
Nagpahimo man siya sang 300 ka magagmay nga mga taming nga ang kada taming nahaklapan sing mga tatlo kag tunga
May anom ka halintang ang trono, kag may bulawan ini nga tulungtungan sang tiil. Sa kada kilid sang halambuyan sini may ara nga estatwa sang leon nga nagatindog.
Kag may ara man nga estatwa sang leon sa kada kilid sang halintang. Dose tanan ka estatwa sa anom ka halintang. Wala sing may makapareho sini nga trono sa bisan diin nga ginharian.
Ang tanan nga ilimnan ni Haring Solomon puro bulawan, kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sa parte sang palasyo nga ginatawag Kagulangan sang Lebanon puro man bulawan. Wala ini ginhimo sa pilak kay Wala ini ginhimo sa pilak kay gamay lang ang bili sang pilak sang panahon ni Solomon.
May mga barko man si Solomon nga pangnegosyo,
Ang tanan nga hari sa kalibutan nagatinguha nga makita si Solomon para makapamati sila sa kaalam nga ginhatag sang Dios sa iya.
May 4,000 ka kuwadra si Solomon para sa iya mga kabayo kag mga karwahe. May 12,000 siya ka kabayo
Ginsakop niya ang tanan nga hari halin sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates hasta sa duta sang mga Filistinhon kag sa border sang Egypt.
Ang mga kabayo ni Solomon naghalin pa sa Egypt kag sa iban pa nga mga nasyon.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Solomon halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan nasulat sa Sinulatan ni Propeta Natan, sa Mensahi ni Ahia nga Taga-Shilo, kag sa Mga Palanan-awon ni Propeta Ido, nga nagasugid man parte sa paghari ni Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat.
Sa Jerusalem nag-estar si Solomon samtang nagahari siya sa bilog nga Israel sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
daw indi siya makapati. Amo man sang makita niya ang pagkaon sa lamisa sang hari, ang pagdumala sang iya mga opisyal, ang pag-alagad sang iya mga suluguon kag mga manugserbi sang iya ilimnon nga may matahom nga mga uniporme, kag ang mga halad nga ginasunog nga iya ginhalad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Wala ako nagpati sini hasta nga nagkadto ako diri kag nakita ko ini mismo. Ang matuod, wala gani sa katunga sang akon nabatian parte sa imo ang akon nakita. Ang imo kaalam labaw pa sang sa akon nabatian.
Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, nga nalipay sa imo kag nagbutang sa imo sa trono para maghari para sa iya. Tungod sa gugma sang imo Dios sa Israel kag sa iya handom nga padayunon niya ini nga nasyon hasta san-o, ginhimo niya ikaw nga hari sini, para himuon mo ang husto kag matarong.”
suno sa ginlaygay sang mga pamatan-on. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Mabug-at ang ginpatuman sang akon amay sa inyo, pero mas mabug-at pa gid ang ipatuman ko sa inyo. Kon ginhanot kamo sang akon amay sang latigo, hanuton ko kamo sang putik nga may matalom nga mga metal.”
Gani wala magpamati ang hari sa pangabay sang pangabay sang mga tawo, kay ini pagbuot sang Dios para matuman ang iya ginsiling kay Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat paagi kay Ahia nga taga-Shilo.
Sang mareyalisar sang mga Israelinhon nga wala sila pagpamatii sang hari, nagsiling sila sa hari, “Wala kami labot sa imo nga kaliwat ni imo nga kaliwat ni David! Bahala ka na sa imo ginharian! Dali kamo mga Israelinhon, mapuli kita!” Gani nagpalauli ang mga Israelinhon.
Karon, ginpakadto ni Haring Rehoboam sa mga Israelinhon sa mga Israelinhon si Adoniram,
Ginpatawag sang mga Israelinhon si Jeroboam, kag tanan sila nagkadto kay Rehoboam kag nagsiling,
“Mabug-at ang mga ginpatuman sang imo amay sa amon. Pero kon pamag-anon mo, alagaran ka namon.”
Nagsabat si Rehoboam, “ Hatagi ninyo ako anay sang Hatagi ninyo ako anay sang tatlo ka adlaw sa paghunahuna sini, pagkatapos sa paghunahuna sini, pagkatapos balik kamo sa akon.” Gani nagpuli ang mga tawo.
Nagsabat sila, “Kon ipakita mo ang imo kaayo sa ila, kag ihatag mo sa ila ang ila ginapangabay, magaalagad sila sa imo hasta san-o.”
Zora, Ayalon, kag Hebron. Amo ini ang napaderan nga mga banwa sa Juda kag Benjamin.
Ginpapag-on niya ang mga pader sini kag nagbutang siya sang mga kumander sa sini nga mga banwa. Ini sila ginhatagan niya sang mga pagkaon, lana sang olibo kag bino.
Ginpabutangan niya ini nga mga banwa sang mga taming kag mga bangkaw bilang dugang nga depensa. Gani ang Juda kag ang Benjamin padayon nga nangin sakop niya.
Ang mga pari kag mga Levita nga nagaestar sa iban nga mga tribo sang Israel nagdampig kay Rehoboam.
Ini nga mga kaliwat ni Levi naghalin sa ila balay kag duta kag nagsaylo sa Juda kag Jerusalem tungod kay ginsikway sila ni Jeroboam kag sang iya mga anak bilang mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagbutang si Jeroboam sang iya kaugalingon nga mga pari sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, nga sa diin nagasimba sila sa ila mga dios-dios nga kanding kag baka nga ginpahimo ni Jeroboam.
Ang mga Israelinhon sa iban nga mga tribo sang Israel nga gusto gid magdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nagsunod sa mga kaliwat ni Levi sa Jerusalem, para makahalad sila sang mga halad sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ginpabakod nila ang ginharian sang Juda, kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig ginsuportaran nila si Rehoboam nga anak ni Solomon. Nagsunod sila sa Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang ila ginhimo sang paghari ni David kag ni Solomon.
Ginpangasawa ni Rehoboam si Mahalat, nga ang iya amay si Jerimot nga anak ni David kag ang iya iloy si Abihail nga anak ni Eliab kag apo ni Jesse.
Si Rehoboam kag si Mahalat may tatlo ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Jeush, Shemaria, kag Zaham.
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Shemaya nga iya alagad,
Ginpangasawa man ni Rehoboam si Maaca nga anak ni Absalom. Ang ila mga anak nga lalaki amo sila ni Abia, Atai, Ziza, kag Shelomit.
Mas palangga ni Rehoboam si Maaca sang sa iban niya nga mga asawa. May 18 ka asawa si Rehoboam kag may 60 pa gid siya ka asawa nga suluguon. Kag ang iya mga anak 28 ka lalaki kag 60 ka babayi.
Ang anak niya kay Maaca nga si Abia amo ang ginpili niya nga pangulo sang iya mga anak nga prinsipe, nga nagakahulugan nga siya ang magabulos sa iya bilang hari.
Mainalamon nga ginhatagan ni Rehoboam sang katungdanan ang iban pa niya nga mga anak. Ginpadumala niya sila sa tanan nga napaderan nga mga banwa sang Juda kag Benjamin. Ginhatagan niya sila sang ila mga kinahanglanon kag sang madamo nga asawa.
“Hambala si Haring Rehoboam sang Juda, nga anak ni Solomon, kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa Juda kag Benjamin
nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling: ‘Indi kamo magpakig-away sa inyo kadugo. Magpuli kamo, kay pagbuot ko ini tanan.’ ” Gintuman nila ang Ginoo Ginoo kag wala nila ginsalakay si Jeroboam.
Nagpabilin si Rehoboam sa Jerusalem kag ginpabakod niya ang ini nga mga banwa sa pagprotektar sang Juda:
Betlehem, Etam, Tekoa,
Bet Zur, Soco, Adulam,
Gat, Maresha, Zif,
Adoraim, Lakish, Azeka,
Sang mabakod na ang paghari ni Rehoboam kag gamhanan na siya, ginsikway niya kag sang bilog nga Israel ang kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag kon magkadto ang hari sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagaupod sa iya ang mga guwardya nga nagadala sang sini nga mga taming, kag pagkatapos ginabalik man nila ini sa ila kuwarto.
Tungod nga nagpaubos si Rehoboam sang iya kaugalingon, nadula ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, kag wala siya malaglag sing bug-os. Sa matuod lang, may ara pa gid man nga kaayuhan sa Juda.
Nagbakod ang pagdumala ni Haring Rehoboam kag nagpadayon siya sa paghari didto sa Jerusalem. Nagaedad siya sing 41 sang nangin hari siya, kag naghari siya sing 17 ka tuig sa Jerusalem, ang siyudad nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel nga sa diin padunggan siya. Ang ngalan sang iloy ni Rehoboam amo si Naama, nga isa ka Ammonhon.
Naghimo sing malain si Rehoboam tungod nga wala siya naghandom sa pagdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang estorya parte sa paghari ni Rehoboam halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan nasulat sa Libro ni Propeta Shemaya kag Libro ni Propeta Iddo, nga listahan sang mga kaliwat. Permi lang sadto nagainaway si Rehoboam kag si Jeroboam.
Sang napatay si Rehoboam, ginlubong siya sa Banwa ni David. Kag si Abia nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Tungod nga indi sila matutom sa Ginoo Ginoo , ginsalakay ni Haring Shishak sang Egypt ang Jerusalem sang ikalima nga tuig sang paghari ni Rehoboam.
May dala si Shishak nga 1,200 ka karwahe, 60,000 ka manugkabayo, kag puwerte kadamo nga mga soldado, nga ang iban sa ila halin pa sa Libya, Sukot, kag Ethiopia.
Ginsakop ni Shishak ang napaderan nga mga banwa sang Juda kag nagpadayon sila sa pagsalakay pakadto sa Jerusalem.
Dayon nagkadto si Propeta Shemaya kay Rehoboam kag sa mga pangulo sang Juda, nga nagpalalagyo sa Jerusalem tungod sa kahadlok kay Shishak. Nagsiling si Shemaya sa ila, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Ginsikway ninyo ako, gani karon pabay-an ko kamo kay Shishak.”
Nagpaubos sang ila kaugalingon ang hari kag ang mga pangulo sang Israel. Nagsiling sila, “Matarong ang Ginoo Ginoo !”
Sang makita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaubos sila sang ila kaugalingon, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Shemaya, “Tungod nga nagpaubos sila sang ila kaugalingon, indi ko sila paglaglagon kundi hilwayon ko sila sa indi madugay. Indi ko pag-ipaagom ang akon kaakig sa Jerusalem paagi kay Shishak.
Pero ipasakop ko sila sa iya para makatuon sila nga mas maayo ang mag-alagad sa akon sang sa mag-alagad sa mga dutan-on nga mga hari.”
Sang ginsalakay ni Haring Shishak sang Egypt ang Jerusalem, ginpanguha niya ang mga manggad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa palasyo. Ginkuha niya ang tanan, pati na ang mga taming nga bulawan nga ginpahimo ni Solomon.
“Pero kami ya, ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang amon Dios, kag wala namon siya ginsikway. Ang amon amon mga pari nga nagaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo mga kaliwat ni Aaron, kag ginabuligan sila sang mga Levita.
Kada aga kag gab-i nagahalad sila sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang mahamot nga insenso. Nagabutang sila sang tinapay sa lamisa nga ginakabig nga matinlo. Kag kada gab-i ginasindihan nila ang mga suga nga ara sa bulawan nga mga tulungtungan. Ginatuman namon ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios. Pero kamo ya ginsikway ninyo siya.
Ang Dios kaupod namon; siya ang amon pangulo. Magapatunog ang iya mga pari sang mga trumpeta sa pagpanguna sa amon sa pagpakig-away sa inyo. Mga katawhan sang Israel, indi kamo magkontra kontra sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan, kay indi gid kamo magmadinalag-on.”
Samtang nagahambal si Abia, Samtang nagahambal si Abia, sekreto nga nagpadala si Jeroboam sang mga soldado sa likod sang mga taga-Juda sa pag-ambus sa ila.
Sang makita sang mga taga-Juda nga ginasalakay sila sa likod kag sa atubang, nagpangayo sila sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpatunog dayon sang mga pari ang mga trumpeta,
kag nagsinggit sing tudo ang mga taga-Juda sa pagsalakay. Sa ila pagsinggit, ginpierdi sang Dios si Jeroboam kag ang mga soldado sang Israel. Ginlagas sila ni Abia kag sang mga soldado sang mga soldado sang Juda.
Nagpalagyo sila, kag gintugyan sila sang Dios sa mga taga-Juda.
Madamo gid ang napatay ni Abia kag sang iya mga tinawo—500,000 ka maayo nga mga soldado sang Israel.
Gani napierdi sang mga taga-Juda ang mga taga-Israel sa sina nga inaway, tungod kay nagsalig sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ginlagas ni Abia si Jeroboam kag naagaw niya sa iya ang mga banwa sang Betel, Jeshana, kag Efron, kag pati ang mga baryo sa ila palibot.
Nag-inaway si Abia kag si Jeroboam.
Wala na gid mabawi ni Jeroboam ang iya gahom sang panahon ni Abia, kag sang ulihi ginsilutan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag napatay siya.
Si Abia ya naggamhanan pa gid. May 14 siya ka asawa kag 22 ka anak nga lalaki kag 16 ka anak nga babayi.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Abia, ang iya mga ginsiling kag mga ginhimo, nasulat sa Estorya ni Propeta Iddo.
Nagsalakay si Abia upod ang 400,000 ka maisog nga mga soldado, kag nagpreparar si Jeroboam sang 800,000 ka maisog nga mga soldado sa pagpakig-away.
Pag-abot nila ni Abia sa kabukiran sang Efraim, nagtindog si Abia sa Bukid sang Zemaraim kag nagsinggit kay Jeroboam kag sa mga taga-Israel, “Pamati kamo sa akon.
Wala bala kamo kahibalo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, naghimo sang wala sing katapusan nga kasugtanan kay David nga siya kag ang iya mga kaliwat amo ang maghari sa Israel hasta san-o?
Pero ikaw Jeroboam nga anak ni Nebat nagrebelde sa imo agalon nga si Solomon nga anak ni David.
Nag-upod sa imo ang dungol kag wala sing pulos nga mga tawo, kag nagkontra kay Rehoboam nga anak ni Solomon sang bata pa sadto si Rehoboam kag wala pa sing eksperiensya kag wala sing ikasarang sa pagbato sa inyo.
Kag karon gusto ninyo nga kontrahon ang ginharian sang Ginoo Ginoo nga gintugyan sa kaliwat ni David. Nagapabugal Nagapabugal kamo nga madamo ang inyo mga soldado kag dala ninyo ang bulawan nga mga baka nga ginpahimo ni Jeroboam bilang inyo mga dios.
Ginpalayas ninyo ang mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga mga kaliwat ni Aaron, kag ang mga Levita. Kag nagpili kamo sang inyo kaugalingon nga mga pari pareho sang ginahimo sang iban nga mga nasyon. Ang bisan sin-o nga may turo nga baka kag pito ka karnero puwede na idedikar bilang pari sang inyo indi matuod nga mga dios.
Sang ulihi napatay si Abia kag ginlubong sa Banwa ni David. Si Asa nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari. Kag sang si Asa ang hari, may kalinong sa Juda sa sulod sang napulo ka tuig.
Naglakat man sila ni Asa sa pagpakig-away kay Zera. Nagplastar sila sa pulopatag sang Zefata malapit sa Maresha.
Dayon nagpangamuyo si Asa sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, “O Ginoo Ginoo , wala na sing iban pa nga makabulig sa mga tawo nga wala sing ikasarang kontra sa mga gamhanan kundi ikaw lang. Buligi kami, O Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, kay nagasalig kami sa imo, kag sa imo ngalan nagkadto kami diri kontra sa sining madamo gid nga mga soldado. O Ginoo Ginoo , ikaw ang amon Dios; indi pag-itugot nga magdaog ang tawo kontra sa imo.”
Gani ginpierdi sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga taga-Ethiopia sa atubangan ni Asa kag sang mga taga-Juda. Nagpalalagyo ang mga taga-Ethiopia,
kag ginlagas sila ni Asa kag sang iya mga soldado hasta sa Gerar. Madamo gid ang nagkalamatay sa mga taga-Ethiopia sa bagay nga indi na sila makapakig-away pa. Ginpierdi sila sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya mga soldado. Madamo gid nga pagkabutang ang nakuha sang mga soldado sang Juda.
Nalaglag nila ang mga baryo sa palibot sang Gerar, tungod nga ang mga pumuluyo sini ginpahadlok sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpanguha nila ang mga pagkabutang sang sini nga mga baryo tungod kay madamo gid ang ila mga pagkabutang.
Ginsalakay man nila ang mga kampo sang mga manugbantay sang mga kasapatan, kag ginpanguha ang madamo nga karnero, kanding, kag camel. Dayon nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem.
Matarong ang ginhimo ni Asa sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios.
Ginpaguba niya ang mga halaran para sa mga dios-dios kag ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar. Ginpaguba man niya ang handumanan nga mga bato kag ginpautod ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera.
Ginsugo niya ang katawhan sang Juda sa pagdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan, kag sa pagtuman sang iya mga kasuguan.
Ginpaguba niya ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar kag ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan sang mga insenso sa tanan nga banwa sang Juda. Gani may kalinong ang ginharian sang Juda sang tion sang paghari ni Asa.
Kag samtang malinong, ginpabutangan ni Asa sang mga pader ang mga banwa sang Juda. Wala sing may nagpakig-away sa iya sa sina nga tion, kay ginhatagan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kalinong.
Nagsiling si Asa sa mga taga-Juda, “Pabakuron ta ini nga mga banwa paagi sa pagbutang sang mga pader sa palibot sini nga may mga tore, mga puwertahan kag mga trangka. Kita gihapon ang nagapanag-iya sang sini nga duta, tungod kay nagdangop kita sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios. Kag ginhatagan niya kita sang kalinong sa aton mga kaaway sa aton mga kaaway sa palibot.” Gani ginpabakod nila ang mga banwa kag nagmainuswagon sila.
May 300,000 ka soldado si Asa nga mga taga-Juda, nga armado sang dalagko nga mga taming kag mga bangkaw. Kag may ara man siya sang 280,000 ka soldado nga taga-Benjamin, nga armado sang magagmay nga mga taming kag mga pana. Ini sila tanan mga maayo nga mga soldado.
Naglakat si Zera nga taga-Ethiopia
Karon, gin-gamhan sang Espiritu sang Dios si Azaria nga anak ni Oded.
Nagtipon sila sa Jerusalem sang ikatatlo nga bulan sang ika-15 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa.
Kag sa sina nga tion naghalad sila sa Ginoo Ginoo sang mga sapat halin sa ila naagaw sa inaway—700 ka baka kag 7,000 ka karnero kag kanding.
Naghimo sila sang kasugtanan nga magdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan, sa bug-os nila nga tagipusuon kag kalag.
Ang bisan sin-o nga indi magdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, pagapatyon, bata man ukon tigulang, lalaki man ukon babayi.
Nagsumpa sila sa Ginoo Ginoo sa mabaskog nga tingog, nga may paghinugyaw kag pagpatunog sang mga trumpeta kag mga budyong.
Nagkalipay gid ang tanan nga taga-Juda tungod kay nagsumpa sila sing tinagipusuon. Nagdangop sila sa Dios nga hugot gid sa ila tagipusuon, kag nakita nila ang iya kaayo. Kag ginhatagan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kalinong sa ila mga kaaway sa ila mga kaaway sa palibot.
Ginpahalin man ni Haring Asa ang iya lola nga si Maaca sa iya pagkarayna tungod kay naghimo siya sang makangilil-ad nga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Ginpautod ni Asa ini nga hulohaligi nga hulohaligi kag ginpabis-ak, kag ginpasunog sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig.
Bisan wala madula ang tanan nga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar sa Israel, nagpabilin nga matutom si Asa sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo sa bug-os niya nga kabuhi.
Gindala niya sa templo sang Dios ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, kag ang iban pa nga mga butang nga gindedikar niya kag sang iya amay sa Dios sa Dios .
Wala gid sing inaway hasta sa ika-35 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa.
Nagpakigkita siya kay Asa kag nagsiling sa iya, “Pamatii ninyo ako Haring Haring Asa, kag tanan kamo nga taga-Juda kag taga-Benjamin. Magapabilin ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo samtang nagapabilin kamo sa iya. Kon magdangop kamo sa iya, makita ninyo ang iya kaayo. Pero kon talikdan ninyo siya, talikdan man niya kamo.
Sa malawig nga panahon nagkabuhi ang mga Israelinhon nga wala sing matuod nga Dios, wala sing mga pari nga nagatudlo sa ila, kag wala sing kasuguan.
Pero sa ila kalisod, nagdangop sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, kag ginbuligan niya sila.
Sadto nga tion, delikado ang pagbiyahe tungod kay nagaginamo ang mga tawo.
Nagailinaway ang mga nasyon kag ang mga siyudad, tungod ginpagamo sila sang Dios paagi sa nagkalain-lain nga kalisod.
Pero kamo ya, magpakaisog kamo kag indi magkaluya, kay ang inyo mga binuhatan pagabalusan.”
Pagkabati ni Asa sa mensahi ni Azaria nga anak ni Oded, nagpakaisog siya. Ginpakuha niya ang makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios sa bilog nga Juda kag Benjamin, kag sa mga banwa nga iya naagaw sa kabukiran sang Efraim. Ginpakay-o niya ang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ara sa atubangan sang balkon sang templo sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon ginpatipon niya ang tanan nga katawhan sang katawhan sang Juda kag Benjamin, kag ang mga katawhan halin sa Efraim, Manase, kag Simeon nga nag-estar upod sa ila. Madamo ang nagsaylo sa Juda halin sa Israel sang makita nila nga si Asa ginaupdan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios.
Sang ika-36 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa, ginsalakay ni Haring Baasha sang Israel ang Juda. Kag ginsuguran ni Haring Baasha ang pagpabakod sang banwa sang banwa sang Rama para wala sing may makaguwa ukon makasulod sa teritoryo ni Haring Asa sang Juda.
Tungod sini, nangakig gid si Asa sa propeta, gani ginpapriso niya siya. Kag sa sina man nga tion, nagsugod sa pagpamigos si Asa sa iban niya nga mga katawhan.
Ang estorya parte sa paghari ni Asa halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda kag sang Israel.
Sang ika-39 nga tuig sang paghari ni Asa, nag-antos siya sang balatian sa tiil. Bisan grabe na ang iya balatian, wala siya nagpangayo sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo kundi sa mga doktor.
Kag sang ika-41 nga tuig sang iya paghari, napatay siya.
Ginlubong siya sa lulubngan nga iya ginpahimo para sa iya kaugalingon didto sa Banwa ni David. Ginhamyang nila siya sa isa ka hiligdaan nga may nagkalain-lain nga pahamot, kag nagdabok ang mga tawo sang dako gid nga kalayo sa pagpadungog sa pagpadungog sa iya.
Ginpanguha ni Asa ang mga pilak kag mga bulawan sa mga bodega sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya palasyo. Dayon ginhatag niya ini kay Haring Ben Hadad sang Aram
“Maghimo kita sang kasugtanan nga magdampiganay kita nga magdampiganay kita , pareho sang ginhimo sang aton mga amay. Batuna ang ginahatag ko sa imo nga pilak kag bulawan, kag ginapangabay ko ikaw nga untaton mo na ang imo pagpakigdampig kay Haring Baasha sang Israel para pabay-an na niya ako.”
Nagsugot si Ben Hadad sa ginpangabay ni Haring Asa, kag ginsugo niya ang mga kumander sang iya mga soldado nga salakayon ang mga banwa sang Israel. Naagaw nila ang Ion, Dan, Abel Maim, kag ang tanan nga banwa sang Naftali nga bulutangan sang mga bodega.
Sang mabatian ini ni Baasha, ginpauntat niya ang pagpabakod sang Rama.
Dayon nagmando si Haring Asa sa tanan nga lalaki nga lalaki sang Juda nga kuhaon nila ang mga bato kag mga troso nga gin-gamit ni Baasha sa pagpabakod sang Rama. Kag gin-gamit ini ni Haring Asa sa pagpabakod sang Geba kag sang Mizpa.
Sadto nga tion, nagkadto si Propeta Hanani kay Haring Asa sang Juda kag nagsiling sa iya, “Tungod nagsalig ka sa hari sang Aram kag indi sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, nadula ang inyo tsansa sa paglaglag sa mga soldado sang hari sang Aram.
Nadumduman mo bala kon ano ang natabo sa mga taga-Ethiopia
Kay nagatan-aw gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog nga kalibutan para pabaskugon ang mga tawo nga matutom gid sa iya. Binuang ang imo ginhimo! Gani sugod subong permi ka na magapakig-away.”
Ang nagbulos kay Asa bilang hari amo ang iya anak nga si Jehoshafat. Ginpabakod ni Jehoshafat ang iya ginharian para makabato siya sa Israel.
Ginpahadlok sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga ginharian sa palibot sang Juda, gani wala sa ila sing may nagpakig-away kay Jehoshafat.
Ang iban nga mga Filistinhon nagdala kay Jehoshafat sang mga regalo kag pilak bilang buhis, kag ang mga Arabo nagdala man sa iya sang 7,700 ka karnero kag 7,700 ka kanding.
Gani naggamhanan pa gid si Jehoshafat. Nagpatindog siya sa Juda sang mabakod nga mga kuta kag sang mga banwa nga bulutangan sang mga bodega.
Madamo nga kinahanglanon ang gintipon niya sa mga banwa sang Juda. Nagbutang man siya sang maayo nga mga soldado sa Jerusalem.
Si Adnah nga kumander sang 300,000 ka maayo nga mga soldado nga gin-grupo sa tag-1,000.
Ang sunod sa iya amo si Jehohanan nga kumander sang 280,000 ka soldado ka soldado .
Sunod amo si Amasia nga anak ni Zicri, nga kumander sang 200,000 ka maayo nga mga soldado. Nagbuluntar siya para sa buluhaton sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Si Eliada nga isa ka maayo nga soldado. Siya ang kumander sang 200,000 ka soldado nga may mga taming kag mga pana.
Ang sunod sa iya amo si Jehozabad nga kumander sang 180,000 ka armado nga mga soldado.
Amo ini sila ang mga nag-alagad kay Haring Jehoshafat Jehoshafat luwas sa mga soldado nga iya ginbutang sa napaderan nga mga banwa sa bilog nga Juda.
Ginbutangan niya sang mga soldado ang tanan nga napaderan nga mga banwa sang Juda, kag ginbutangan niya sang mga kampo sang mga soldado ang Juda kag ang mga banwa sang Efraim nga naagaw sang iya amay nga si Asa.
Ginaupdan sang Ginoo Ginoo si Jehoshafat tungod kay sa una nga mga tinuig sang iya paghari ginsunod niya ang pagkabuhi sang iya katigulangan nga si David. Wala siya magdangop sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal
kundi nagdangop siya sa Dios sang iya amay kag nagsunod sa iya kasuguan sa baylo nga magsunod sa pagginawi sang mga taga-Israel.
Ginpabakod sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ginharian sa idalom sang iya paghari. Nagdala sang mga regalo ang tanan nga taga-Juda sa iya, gani nagmanggaranon gid siya kag nagdungganon.
Matutom siya sa pagsunod sa mga pamaagi sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpaguba niya sa Juda ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar kag ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera.
Sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang iya paghari, ginpadala niya ang iya mga opisyal nga sila ni Ben Hail, Obadias, Zacarias, Netanel, kag Micaya sa pagtudlo sa mga banwa sang Juda.
Kaupod nila ang iban nga mga Levita nga sila ni Shemaya, Netania, Zebadia, Asahel, Shemiramot, Jehonatan, Adonia, Tobija, Tob Adonia, kag ang mga pari nga sila ni Elishama kag Jehoram.
Gindala nila ang Libro sang Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag naglibot sila sa tanan nga banwa sang Juda kag nagpanudlo sa mga tawo.
Karon, nagmanggaranon kag nagdungganon na gid si Jehoshafat, kag nangin maayo ang iya relasyon kay Haring Haring Ahab sang Israel sang Israel tungod sa pag-asawahay sang miyembro sang ila pamilya.
Si Zedekia nga isa sa mga propeta, nga isa sa mga propeta, nga anak ni Kenaana, may ginhimo nga sulosungay nga salsalon. Nagsiling siya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Paagi sa sini nga sungay, laglagon mo, Haring Ahab, Haring Ahab, ang mga Arameanhon hasta nga maubos sila.’ ”
Amo man ang ginsiling sang tanan nga propeta. Siling nila, “Salakaya ang Ramot Gilead, Haring Ahab, Ahab, kag magadaog ka, kay itugyan ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.”
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang ginsugo sa pagkuha kay Micaya nagsiling sa iya, “Ang tanan nga propeta palareho nga nagsiling nga magadaog ang hari, gani amo man dapat ang imo isiling.”
Pero nagsiling si Micaya, “Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios nga ihambal ko lang ang ginapahambal niya sa akon.”
Pag-abot ni Micaya kay Haring Ahab Ahab nagpamangkot ang hari sa iya, “Micaya, salakayon bala namon ang Ramot Gilead ukon indi?” Nagsabat si Micaya, “Salakaya ninyo kag magadaog kamo, kay itugyan ini sa inyo.”
Gani nagsiling si Micaya, “Nakita ko sa palanan-awon sa palanan-awon nga naglalapta ang mga Israelinhon sa mga kabukiran pareho sa mga karnero nga wala sing manugbantay, kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Ini nga mga tawo wala na sing pangulo. Papulia sila nga may kalinong.’ ”
Nagsiling si Ahab kay Jehoshafat, “Indi bala ginsilingan ko na ikaw nga wala gid siya sing maayo nga ginapropesiya parte sa akon kundi puro lang malain?”
Kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Sin-o ang magaganyat kay Haring Ahab nga magsalakay sa Ramot Gilead para mapatay siya didto?’ Lain-lain ang sabat sang langitnon nga mga tinuga.
Pagkaligad sang pila ka tuig, nagbisita si Jehoshafat kay Ahab sa Samaria. Nag-ihaw si Ahab sang madamo nga karnero kag baka sa pagpapunsyon para kay Jehoshafat kag sa iya mga tinawo. Dayon ginhagad niya si Jehoshafat sa pagsalakay sa Ramot Gilead.
Sang ulihi may espiritu nga nagpalapit sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling, ‘Ako ang magaganyat sa iya.’ Nagpamangkot ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Sa ano nga paagi?’
Nagsabat siya, ‘Malakat ako kag pahambalon ko sing binutig ang mga propeta ni Ahab.’ Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Lakat kag himua ina. Magamadinalag-on ka sa pagganyat sa iya.’ ”
Nagsabat si Micaya, “Mahibaluan mo ini sa adlaw nga mapierdi kamo sa inaway kag mapierdi kamo sa inaway kag manago ka sa pinakasulod nga kuwarto sang balay sang balay .”
Nagmando dayon si Ahab, “Dakpa ninyo si Micaya kag dal-a pabalik kay Amon nga pangulo sang banwa kag kay Joash nga akon anak.
Kag silinga ninyo sila nga nagmando ako nga prisohon ini nga tawo kag hatagan siya sang tinapay lang kag tubig hasta makabalik ako halin sa inaway halin sa inaway nga wala maano.”
Nagsiling siya kay Jehoshafat, “Maupod ka bala sa amon sa pagpakig-away sa Ramot Gilead?” Nagsabat si Jehoshafat, “Handa ako nga mag-upod sa imo, kag handa ako nga ipagamit sa imo ang akon mga soldado. Huo, maupod kami sa inyo sa pagpakig-away.
Karon, nagmando ang hari sang Aram
Pagkakita sang mga kumander sang mga karwahe kay Jehoshafat, naghunahuna sila nga siya ang hari sang Israel, gani ginsalakay nila siya. Pero nagpangayo sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo si Jehoshafat, kag ginbuligan niya siya paagi sa pagpalikaw sang iya mga kaaway sa iya.
Kay sang matalupangdan sang mga kumander sang mga karwahe nga indi gali siya ang hari sang Israel, nag-untat sila sa paglagas sa iya.
Pero sang nagapamana ang isa ka Arameanhon nga soldado sa mga soldado sang Israel, nalagpatan nga naigo niya si Haring Ahab Ahab sang Israel sa tinabuan sang iya panagang sa dughan. Nagsiling si Haring Ahab Ahab sa nagadala sang iya karwahe, “Ipalayo ako sa inaway! Kay napilasan ako.”
Puwerte na gid ang inaway sadto nga adlaw, kag ang hari sang Israel nagasandig na lang sa iya karwahe nga nagaatubang sa mga Arameanhon hasta maghapon. Kag sang nagasalop na ang adlaw, napatay siya.
Gani ginpatawag ni Ahab
Sang pagbalik ni Haring Jehoshafat sa iya palasyo sa Jerusalem nga wala maano,
Kon may kaso nga mag-abot sa inyo halin sa inyo mga kasimanwa sa bisan diin nga banwa nga may kaangtanan sa pagpatay ukon sa iban pa nga klase sang pagsupak sa mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, paandami ninyo sila nga indi magpakasala sa Ginoo Ginoo , kay kon indi, ipaagom niya ang iya kaakig sa inyo kag sa ila. Himua ninyo ini para indi kamo makasala.
Kon may mga kaso parte sa Ginoo Ginoo nga indi ninyo mahusay, si Amaria nga pangulo nga pari amo ang maghusay sina. Kag kon may kaso parte sa gobyerno nga indi ninyo mahusay, si Zebadia nga anak ni Ishmael kag pangulo sang tribo sang Juda amo ang maghusay sina. Ang mga Levita magabulig sa inyo para masiguro nga may ara sang hustisya. Magpakaisog kamo sa paghimo sang inyo obligasyon. Kabay pa nga updan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga tawo nga nagahimo sing husto.”
ginsugata siya ni Propeta Jehu nga anak ni Hanani kag ginsilingan, “Ngaa ginbuligan mo ang malain kag ginhigugma ang nagakontra sa Ginoo Ginoo ? Tungod sini, nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.
Pero may ara man nga maayo sa imo. Ginpakuha mo sa Juda ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera kag ginhandom mo ang pagdangop sa Dios.”
Nag-estar si Jehoshafat sa Jerusalem, pero nagalibot-libot siya sa mga tawo halin sa Beersheba pakadto sa kabukiran sang Efraim sa pagpabalik sa ila sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Nagbutang siya sang mga manughukom sa kada napaderan nga banwa sang Juda.
Ginsilingan niya sila, “Hunahunaa gid ninyo sing maayo antes kamo maghukom kay wala kamo nagahukom para sa tawo kundi para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag magaupod ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo sa inyo paghukom.
Magtahod kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag maghukom sing maayo kay indi gusto sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios ang pagpatiko sang hustisya, ang paghukom nga may pinilian, kag ang pagbaton sang lagay.”
Nagbutang man sa Jerusalem si Jehoshafat sang mga Levita, mga pari, kag mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang mga Israelinhon sa paghusay sang mga kaso nga may kaangtanan sa kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa paghusay sang mga pag-ilinaway. Kag didto sila nag-estar sa Jerusalem.
Amo ini ang iya mando sa ila: “Kinahanglan nga mag-alagad kamo nga matutom kag tinagipusuon, nga may pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang ulihi naglakat ang mga Moabnon kag mga Ammonhon, kaupod sang iban nga Meunhon
“Karon ginasalakay kami sang mga tawo halin sa Ammon, Moab, kag Bukid sang Seir. Sadto anay ang ila mga teritoryo wala mo gintugot nga sakupon sang mga Israelinhon sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt. Gani naglikaw ang mga Israelinhon sa ila kag wala nila sila paglaglaga.
Pero karon, tan-awa kon ano ang ila ginabalos sa amon. Ginasalakay nila kami para palayason kami sa duta nga imo ginhatag sa amon bilang palanublion.
O Dios namon, indi mo bala sila pagsilutan? Kay wala kami sang ikasarang sa pag-atubang sa sinang madamo nga soldado nga nagasalakay sa amon. Indi kami kahibalo kon ano ang amon himuon, pero nagasalig kami sa imo.”
Samtang nagatindog didto ang tanan nga lalaki sang Juda upod sang ila mga asawa kag mga anak, pati ang ila magagmay nga kabataan,
gin-gamhan sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo si Jahaziel nga nagatindog didto sa komunidad. Si Jahaziel anak ni Zacarias. Si Zacarias anak ni Benaya. Si Benaya anak ni Jiel. Kag si Jiel anak ni Matania nga Levita kag kaliwat ni Asaf.
Nagsiling si Jahaziel, “Haring Jehoshafat, kag tanan kamo nga nagaestar sa Juda kag Jerusalem, pamati kamo! Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo, ‘Indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magkaluya tungod sa sining madamo nga soldado, kay indi kamo ang magapakig-away kundi ang Dios.
Buwas magdulhog kamo pakadto sa ila. Makita ninyo sila nga nagataklad sa taklaran sang Ziz, sa punta sang ililigan sang tubig nga nagapakadto sa kamingawan sang Jeruel.
Indi kinahanglan nga magpakig-away kamo. Magpreparar lang kamo kag magpakabakod, kag tan-awa ninyo ang kadalag-an nga himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo para sa inyo. Kamo nga mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem, indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magkaluya. Atubanga ninyo sila buwas kag ang Ginoo Ginoo magaupod sa inyo.’ ”
Nagluhod si Jehoshafat kag ang tanan nga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagtindog ang iban nga mga Levita nga halin sa mga pamilya ni Kohat kag ni Kora kag nagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, sa mabaskog gid nga tingog.
May mga tawo nga nagkadto kay Jehoshafat kag nagsiling, “May nagapadulong nga madamo gid nga mga soldado nga magasalakay sa imo. Ini sila halin sa Edom
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nagkadto sila ni Jehoshafat ni Jehoshafat sa kamingawan sang Tekoa. Samtang nagalakat sila, nagpundo si Jehoshafat kag nagsiling, “Pamatii ninyo ako, kamo nga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem! Magtuo kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kag mangin mabakod kamo. Magtuo kamo sa iya mga propeta, kag mangin madinalag-on kamo.”
Pagkatapos nagpangayo siya sang laygay sa mga tawo. Dayon nagpili siya sang mga manugkanta nga magauna sa ila kag magkanta sang mga pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa iya makatilingala nga pagkabalaan. Amo ini ang ila ginakanta: “Pasalamati ang Ginoo Ginoo kay ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.”
Kag sang pagsugod nila kanta sang mga pagdayaw, ginpaaway sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Ammonhon, mga Moabnon, kag mga taga-Bukid sang Seir nga nagasalakay sa Juda. Nagkalalaglag sila
kay kay ginsalakay sang mga Ammonhon kag Moabnon ang mga soldado sang mga taga-Bukid sang Seir kag ginlaglag sila sing bug-os. Pagkatapos nila pamatay, sila naman ang nagpinatyanay.
Pag-abot sang mga soldado sang Juda sa mataas nga lugar nga sa diin makita ang kamingawan sa ubos, nakita nila ang mga bangkay sang ila mga kaaway nga nagahamyang sa duta. Wala sing bisan isa nga buhi.
Gani ginkadtuan ini ni Jehoshafat kag sang iya mga tinawo kag ginpanguha ang ila mga pagkabutang. Madamo ang ila nakuha nga mga kagamitan, mga bayo,
Sang ikaapat nga adlaw nagtipon sila sa Kapatagan sang Beraca kag nagdayaw sila didto sa Ginoo Ginoo . Amo ina kon ngaa ginatawag ini nga Kapatagan sang Beraca
Dayon nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem nga ginapangunahan ni Jehoshafat. Malipayon gid sila tungod ginpadaog sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila mga kaaway.
Pag-abot nila sa Jerusalem, nagderetso sila sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga nagatukar sang mga arpa, lira, kag mga trumpeta.
Sang mabatian sang tanan nga ginharian kon paano nagpakig-away ang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga kaaway sang Israel, hinadlukan sila sa Dios.
Hinadlukan si Jehoshafat, kag nagdangop siya sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon nagmando siya nga magpuasa ang tanan nga taga-Juda.
Gani may kalinong ang ginharian ni Jehoshafat kay ginhatagan siya sang iya Dios sang kalinong sa iya mga kaaway sa iya mga kaaway sa palibot.
Amo ato ang paghari ni Jehoshafat sa Juda. Nagaedad siya sang 35 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 25 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Azuba nga anak ni Shilhi.
Ginsunod niya ang pagginawi sang iya amay nga si Asa kag wala siya nagtalikod sa sini nga pagginawi. Matarong ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero wala niya pagkuhaa ang tanan nga tanan nga mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, kag ang mga tawo wala gihapon nagmatutom sa pagsunod sa Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehoshafat, halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan, nasulat sa Kasaysayan ni Jehu nga Anak ni Hanani, nga nalakip sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda.
Pero sang ulihi nga bahin sang paghari ni Jehoshafat sa Juda, nagpakigdampig siya kay Haring Ahazia sang Israel, nga isa ka malain nga tawo.
Nagsugtanay sila nga magpahimo sang mga barko nga pangnegosyo.
Pero nagsiling si Eliezer nga anak ni Dodavahu nga taga-Maresha sa kay Jehoshafat, “Tungod nga nagpakigdampig ka kay Ahazia, gub-on sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo ginpaobra.” Gani naguba ang mga barko kag wala ini makabiyahe para magnegosyo.
Gani nagtipon ang mga tawo halin sa tanan nga banwa sang Juda sa pagpangayo sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagtindog si Jehoshafat sa atubangan sang komunidad sang Juda kag Jerusalem didto sa atubangan sang bag-o nga ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo
kag nagsiling, “O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang amon mga katigulangan, indi bala ikaw ang Dios nga ara sa langit? Ikaw ang nagagahom sa tanan nga ginharian sa kalibutan. Gamhanan ka gid kag wala sing may makabato sa imo.
O Dios namon, indi bala nga ginpatabog mo ang mga pumuluyo sang sini nga duta sa imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon? Kag indi bala nga ginhatag mo ini sa ila, nga ila, nga mga kaliwat ni Abraham nga imo abyan, para mangin ila para mangin ila hasta san-o?
Gin-estaran nila ini kag ginpatindugan sang templo para sa imo kadungganan. Nagsiling sila,
‘Kon may kalamidad nga mag-abot sa amon pareho sang inaway, baha,
Sa amo man sadto nga tion, nagrebelde man ang Libna sa Juda sa Juda , tungod kay ginsikway ni Jehoram ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang iya mga katigulangan.
Nagpatindog siya sang mga simbahan sa mga kabukiran sang Juda nga amo ang kabangdanan sang pagsimba sang mga taga-Jerusalem kag taga-Juda sa mga dios-dios.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang imo katigulangan nga si David: Wala mo ginsunod ang pagkabuhi sang imo amay nga si Jehoshafat ukon sang imo lolo nga si imo lolo nga si Asa nga nangin nga nangin hari man man sang Juda.
Sa baylo, ginsunod mo ang pagkabuhi sang mga hari sang Israel. Gin-ganyat mo ang mga taga-Juda kag mga taga-Jerusalem sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios pareho sa ginhimo ni Ahab. Ginpamatay mo man ang imo mismo mga utod nga mas maayo pa sang sa imo.
Gani karon laglagon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang imo katawhan, mga anak, mga asawa, kag ang tanan mo nga pagkabutang. Puwerte gid nga kalaglagan ang ipadala niya sa inyo.
Ikaw mismo magaantos sa grabe nga balatian sa tiyan hasta nga magguluwa ang imo tinai.”
Dayon ginpaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra kay Jehoram ang mga Filistinhon kag ang mga Arabo, nga nagaestar malapit sa mga taga-Ethiopia.
Ginsalakay nila ang Juda, kag ginpanguha ang mga pagkabutang sa palasyo sang hari, pati ang iya mga asawa kag mga anak. Ang kamanghuran lang niya nga anak nga si Ahazia
Pagkatapos sadto, ginpaantos sang Ginoo Ginoo si Jehoram sang balatian sa tiyan nga wala sing kaayuhan.
Pagkaligad sang mga duha ka tuig, nagguwa ang iya tinai tungod sa balatian, kag napatay siya sa puwerte nga kasakit. Wala nagdabok sang kalayo ang iya katawhan sa pagpadungog sa iya, subong sa ila ginhimo sa iya mga katigulangan.
Ang mga utod ni Jehoram amo sila ni Azaria, Jehiel, Zacarias, Azariahu, Micael, kag Shefatia. Ini sila tanan mga anak ni Haring Jehoshafat sang Juda.
Nagaedad si Jehoram sang 32 ka tuig sang naghari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang walo ka tuig. Wala gid sang may nasubuan sang napatay siya. Ginlubong siya sa Banwa ni David, pero indi sa lulubngan sang mga hari.
Ginhatagan sila ni Jehoshafat sang madamo nga regalo nga pilak kag bulawan, malahalon nga mga pagkabutang, kag napaderan nga mga banwa sa Juda. Pero si Jehoram ang iya ginpabulos bilang hari kay siya ang kamagulangan.
Sang mabakod na gid ang paghari ni Jehoram sa ginharian sang iya amay, ginpapatay niya ang tanan niya nga mga utod, pati ang iban nga mga opisyal sang Juda.
Pero tungod sa kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo kay David, wala niya paglaglaga ang mga kaliwat ni David. Kay nagpromisa ang Ginoo Ginoo kay David nga hasta san-o indi siya madulaan sang kaliwat nga magahari.
Gani nagkadto si Jehoram kag ang iya mga opisyal sa Edom dala ang tanan niya nga mga karwahe. Ginlibutan siya kag ang mga kumander sang iya mga karwahe sang mga Edomnon. Pero pagkagab-i ginsalakay nila ang mga Edomnon, kag nakapalagyo sila. kag nakapalagyo sila.
Si Ahazia nga kamanghuran nga anak ni Jehoram amo ang ginhimo sang katawhan sang Jerusalem nga ila hari. Kay ang iban nga mga anak ni Jehoram ginpamatay sang mga Arabo nga nagsalakay sa Juda. Gani naghari sa Juda si Ahazia nga anak ni Haring Haring Jehoram.
Pero ginluwas ni Jehosheba
Sa sulod sang anom ka tuig, didto nagpanago sa templo sang Dios si Joash samtang si Atalia ang nagagahom bilang rayna bilang rayna sa Juda.
Nagaedad si Ahazia sang 22
Nagsunod man si Ahazia sa pagginawi sang pamilya ni Ahab, kay gin-ganyat siya sang iya iloy sa paghimo sang malain.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang ginhimo sang pamilya ni Ahab, kay pagkatapos nga napatay ang iya amay, nangin manuglaygay niya ang mga miyembro sang pamilya ni Ahab.
Ini nga pagbisita ni Ahazia kay Joram gin-gamit sang Dios sa paglaglag kay Ahazia. Sang didto si Ahazia sa Jezreel sa Jezreel , ginbuligan niya si Joram sa pagpakig-away kay Jehu nga anak ni Nimshi. Si Jehu ang ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo sa paglaglag sa panimalay ni Ahab.
Samtang ginalaglag ni Jehu ang pamilya ni Ahab, nakita niya ang mga opisyal sang Juda kag ang mga anak sang mga paryente
Karon wala gid sing bisan isa sa mga nabilin nga miyembro sang pamilya ni Ahazia nga makasarang maghari.
Sang ikapito nga tuig, naghimo na sang tikang si Jehoyada. Naghimo siya sang kasugtanan sa lima ka lima ka kumander sang ginatos nga mga soldado nga mga soldado . Sila amo si Azaria nga anak ni Jeroham, Ishmael nga anak ni Jehohanan, Azaria nga anak ni Obed, Maasea nga anak ni Adaya, kag Elishafat nga anak ni Zicri.
Ginpaplastar niya ang mga armado nga mga lalaki sa palibot sang templo kag sang halaran, sa pagprotektar sa hari.
Dayon ginpaguwa ni Jehoyada kag sang iya mga anak si Joash nga Joash nga anak sang hari kag ginkoronahan. Ginhatagan niya siya sang kopya sang mga pagsulundan parte sa pagdumala sang hari,
Sang pagkabati ni Atalia sang ginahod sang mga tawo nga nagadinalagan kag nagasininggit sa pagdayaw sa hari, nagkadto siya sa ila didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag nakita niya didto ang bag-o nga bag-o nga hari nga nagatindog malapit sa haligi nga masami nga ginatindugan sang mga hari sa may puwertahan sang templo sang templo . Ara sa tupad sang hari ang mga kumander kag ang mga manugtrumpeta, kag ang tanan nga tawo nagahinugyaw kag nagapatunog sang mga trumpeta. Ang mga manugkanta nga may mga instrumento nagapanguna sa pagdayaw sa Dios. Sang makita ini tanan ni Atalia, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kalain sang iya buot sa kalain sang iya buot , kag nagsinggit, “Mga traidor! Mga traidor!”
Gani gindakop nila siya kag gindala sa samputan sang Puwertahan sang mga Kabayo nga pasulod sa palasyo, kag didto ginpatay nila siya.
Naghimo sang kasugtanan si Jehoyada upod sa mga tawo kag sa hari nga sila mangin katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagkadto dayon ang tanan nga tawo sa templo ni Baal kag gin-guba nila ini. Gindugmok nila ang mga halaran kag ang mga dios-dios sini, kag ginpatay nila si Matan nga pari ni Baal sa atubangan sang mga halaran.
Dayon gintugyan ni Jehoyada sa mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi ang pagdumala sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sadto sa ginhimo ni David. Magahalad sila sang mga halad nga ginasunog suno sa nasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises, kag magahinugyaw kag magakanta suno sa ginmando ni David.
Nagpabutang man si Jehoyada sang mga manugbantay sa mga puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo para wala sing may makasulod nga tawo nga ginakabig nga mahigko.
Pag-abot nila tanan tanan sa Jerusalem,
Dayon gin-upod niya ang mga kumander, ang mga dungganon nga mga tawo, ang mga opisyal kag ang tanan nga tawo, kag ila gindul-ong ang hari sa palasyo halin sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Didto sila nag-agi sa puwertahan sa north. Dayon ginpapungko nila ang hari sa iya trono.
Nagkinalipay ang mga tawo, kag malinong na ang siyudad sa tapos ginpatay si Atalia.
nagkadto sila sa templo sang Dios kag naghimo sang kasugtanan kay Joash nga anak sang Joash nga anak sang hari. Nagsiling si Jehoyada sa mga tawo, “Amo na ini ang tion nga magahari ang anak sang hari, suno sa ginpromisa sang Ginoo Ginoo nga may ara permi sang kaliwat si David nga magahari.
Karon amo ini ang inyo himuon: Ang isa sa tatlo ka parte sang mga pari kag mga Levita, nga nagaguwardya kon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, magguwardya sa mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo .
Ang isa pa sa tatlo ka parte magguwardya sa palasyo sang hari. Kag ang isa pa gid sa tatlo ka parte magguwardya sa Puwertahan sang Pundasyon. Ang iban nga mga tawo didto sa mga ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Wala sing may magsulod sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , luwas lang sa mga pari kag mga Levita nga nagaalagad sa sina nga tion. Puwede sila makasulod tungod gindedikar sila para sa sini nga buluhaton. Pero ang iban kinahanglan didto lang magguwardya sa guwa suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dapat guwardyahan maayo sang mga Levita ang hari, nga preparado ang ila mga armas, kag sundan nila siya bisan diin siya magkadto. Ang bisan sin-o nga magsulod sa templo nga indi pari ukon Levita nga indi pari ukon Levita dapat patyon.”
Ginhimo sang mga Levita kag sang tanan nga taga-Juda ang ginsugo ni Jehoyada nga pari. Gintipon sang mga kumander ang ila mga tinawo nga nagaguwardya kon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, pati man ang wala nagaguwardya sa sina nga adlaw. Wala anay ginpapuli ni Jehoyada ang mga Levita bisan natapos na ang ila turno.
Dayon ginhatagan ni Jehoyada ang mga kumander sang mga bangkaw kag sang dalagko kag magagmay nga mga taming nga iya sadto ni Haring David, nga gintago didto sa templo sang Dios.
Nagaedad si Joash sang pito ka tuig sang naghari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Zibia nga taga-Beersheba.
Malipayon nga naghatag ang tanan nga opisyal kag ang mga tawo. Ginhulog nila ang ila kuwarta sa kahon hasta nga napuno ini.
Kon puno na gani ang kahon, ginadala ini sang mga Levita sa mga opisyal sang hari. Dayon ginaisip ini sang sekretaryo sang hari kag sang opisyal sang pangulo nga pari, kag pagkatapos ginabalik nila liwat ang kahon didto sa puwertahan sang templo. Amo ini ang ila ginahimo kada adlaw hasta nga nagdamo ang koleksyon.
Dayon ginhatag ni Haring Joash Joash kag ni Jehoyada ang kuwarta sa mga tawo nga nagadumala sa pagpakay-o sang templo. Kag nagpanguha sila sang mga panday kag sang mga trabahador nga maayo sa salsalon kag saway.
Mapisan gid ang mga nagadumala sa trabaho, gani madasig ang pagtrabaho. Nakay-o nila ang templo sang Dios suno sa orihinal nga desinyo sini, kag ginpabakod pa gid nila.
Pagkatapos sang obra, gin-uli nila sa hari kag kay Jehoyada ang sobra nga kuwarta. Kag gin-gamit ini sa pagpahimo sang mga kagamitan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo —ang mga ginagamit sa pagsimba, sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog, pati na ang mga yahong kag mga suludlan nga bulawan kag pilak. Kag samtang buhi si Jehoyada, padayon ang paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagkabuhi si Jehoyada sing malawig nga mga tinuig, kag napatay siya sa edad nga 130 ka tuig.
Ginlubong siya sa lulubngan sang mga hari sa Banwa ni David, tungod sa maayo nga mga ginhimo niya sa Israel para sa Dios kag sa iya templo.
Pero pagkatapos nga napatay si Jehoyada, nagkadto ang mga opisyal sang Juda kay Haring Joash Joash . Nagluhod sila sa hari bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod , kag dayon ginkombinsi nila siya nga magpamati sa ila.
Nagdesisyon sila nga pabay-an na lang ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan, kag magsimba sa mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera kag sa iban pa nga mga dios-dios. Tungod sa ila ginhimo, nangakig ang Dios sa Juda kag Jerusalem.
Nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang mga propeta sa mga tawo para pabalikon sila sa iya. Kag bisan ginpaandaman sila sang mga propeta, wala sila magpamati.
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Joash sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo sa bilog nga pagkabuhi ni Jehoyada nga pari.
Dayon gin-gamhan sang Espiritu sang Dios si Zacarias nga anak ni Jehoyada nga pari. Nagtindog siya sa atubangan sang mga tawo kag nagsiling, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Dios: Ngaa wala ninyo ginatuman ang mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo ? Indi gid gid kamo mag-uswag. Tungod nga ginsikway ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo , ginsikway man niya kamo.”
Nagplano ang mga opisyal sa pagpatay kay Zacarias. Kag sa sugo mismo sang hari, ginbato nila si Zacarias sa ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag napatay siya.
Ginkalimtan ni Haring Joash ang kaayo nga ginpakita sa iya ni Jehoyada, nga amay ni Zacarias. Sa baylo, ginpapatay niya si Zacarias. Amo ini ang ginsiling ni Zacarias sang nagahimumugto na siya, “Kabay pa nga talupangdon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo ginahimo, ang inyo ginahimo, kag sukton niya kamo.”
Sang pagsugod sang bag-o nga tuig, ginsalakay sang mga soldado sang Aram
Diutay lang ang mga soldado sang Aram nga nagsalakay kon ikomparar sa mga soldado sang Juda. Pero ginpapierdi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila ang Juda, tungod ginsikway nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan. Gani nag-abot ini nga silot kay Joash.
Paghalin sang mga taga-Aram, grabe gid ang mga pilas ni Joash. Pero tungod sa iya nga pagpatay sa anak ni Jehoyada nga pari, nagplano ang iya mga alagad nga patyon siya. Ginpatay nila siya sa iya hiligdaan. Ginlubong siya sa Banwa ni David, pero indi sa lulubngan sang mga hari.
Ang mga nagpatay sa iya amo si Zabad
Ang mga estorya parte sa mga anak ni Joash, sa mga propesiya parte sa iya, kag sa pagpakay-o sang templo sang Dios nasulat sa Komentaryo Parte sa Estorya sang Mga Hari. Si Amazia nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Ginpangitaan siya ni Jehoyada sang duha ka asawa, kag may mga anak siya nga lalaki kag babayi.
Sang ulihi nagdesisyon si Joash sa pagpakay-o sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpatawag niya ang mga pari kag mga Levita kag ginsilingan, “Magkadto kamo sa mga banwa sang Juda kag kolektaha ninyo ang mga balayran sang mga Israelinhon kada tuig, para mapakay-o ta ang templo sang aton Dios. Himua ninyo ini gilayon.” Pero wala gilayon magtuman ang mga Levita.
Gani ginpatawag ni Haring Joash Joash ang pangulo nga pari nga si Jehoyada kag ginpamangkot, “Ngaa wala mo ginpakolekta sa mga Levita ang balayran sang mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem? Indi bala nga nagsugo si Moises nga alagad sang Ginoo Ginoo sa komunidad sang Israel nga ihatag nila ini para sa Tolda nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan?”
(Sadto anay, ang mga anak sang malain nga babayi nga si Atalia nakasulod sa templo sang Dios kag nagpanguha sang mga balaan nga kagamitan para gamiton sa pagsimba sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal.)
Gani nagsugo si Haring Joash Joash nga maghimo sang kahon nga bulutangan sang kuwarta, kag ibutang ini sa guwa sang puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon naghatag siya sang pahibalo sa Juda kag Jerusalem nga kinahanglan dal-on sang mga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo ang ila balayran suno sa ginsugo ni Moises nga alagad sang Dios sa katawhan sang Israel sang didto sila sa kamingawan.
Nagaedad si Amazia sing 25 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 29 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Jehoadan
Gani ginpapuli ni Amazia ang mga soldado nga taga-Efraim. Nagpuli sila nga akig gid sa Juda.
Nagpangisog si Amazia sa pagsalakay, kag ginpanguluhan niya ang iya mga soldado sa pagkadto sa kapatagan nga ginatawag Asin, nga sa diin nakapatay sila sang 10,000 ka Edomnon.
Nakadakop pa gid sila sang 10,000 ka soldado, kag gindala nila ini sa isa ka pil-as kag ginhulog, kag nagkaladugmok ang mga lawas sini.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ang mga soldado nga ginpapuli ni Amazia kag wala ginpaupod sa inaway nagsalakay sa mga banwa sang Juda halin sa Samaria pakadto sa Bet Horon. Nakapatay sila sang 3,000 ka tawo, kag madamo nga pagkabutang ang ila ginpanguha.
Pagbalik ni Amazia halin sa ila pagpamatay sa mga Edomnon, gindala niya ang mga dios-dios sang mga Edomnon.
Gani nangakig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Amazia. Nagpadala siya sang propeta kay Amazia sa pagsiling, “Ngaa nagadangop ka sa mga dios-dios nga indi gani makaluwas sa ila katawhan sa imo kamot?”
Samtang nagahambal ang propeta, nagsabat ang hari, “Ngaa ginalaygayan mo ako? Ginhimo ko bala ikaw nga manuglaygay? Maghipos ka, kay kon indi ipapatay ko ikaw.” Gani naghipos ang propeta pagkatapos niya hambal sini: “Sigurado gid nga laglagon ka sang Dios tungod nga nagsimba ka sa mga dios-dios kag wala ka nagpamati sa akon.”
Pagkatapos estorya ni Haring Amazia sa iya mga manuglaygay, nagpadala siya sang mensahi sa hari sang Israel nga si Jehoash nga anak ni Jehoahaz kag apo ni Jehu. Ginhangkat niya si Jehoash nga mag-inaway sila.
Amazia, Amazia, matuod nga napierdi mo ang Edom kag ginapabugal mo ina. Pero magpabilin ka na lang sa imo lugar. Ngaa gusto mo gid ang gamo nga magadala lang sang kalaglagan sa imo kag sa Juda?”
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Amazia sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero indi gid bug-os ang pagsunod niya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero indi magpamati si Amazia, kay nagpanghikot ang Dios nga malaglag siya ni Jehoash tungod sa iya pagsimba sa mga dios sang Edom.
Gani ginsalakay siya ni Haring Jehoash kag sang iya mga soldado kag sang iya mga soldado . Nag-away sila sa Bet Shemesh nga sakop sang Juda.
Nadakpan ni Haring Jehoash si Haring Amazia didto sa Bet Shemesh, kag gindala niya siya sa Jerusalem. Dayon gin-guba ni Jehoash ang mga pader sang Jerusalem halin sa Puwertahan sang Efraim pakadto sa Pamusod nga Puwertahan, nga mga 600 feet ang kalabaon.
Ginpanguha niya ang tanan nga bulawan, pilak, kag kagamitan nga iya nakita sa templo sang Dios nga ginaatipan sadto ni Obed Edom. Ginpanguha man niya ang mga manggad sa palasyo. Gindala niya ini kag ang mga bihag sa iya nga pagbalik sa Samaria.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Amazia, halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda kag Israel.
Pagkatapos nga nagtalikod si Amazia sa Ginoo Ginoo , may mga tawo nga nagplano sa pagpatay sa iya sa Jerusalem, gani nagpalagyo siya sa Lakish. Pero ginpasundan nila siya sa Lakish, kag ginpatay siya didto.
Gin-organisar ni Amazia ang iya mga soldado nga halin sa Juda kag Benjamin. Gin-grupo niya sila suno sa ila pamilya kag ginbutangan sang mga kumander nga magadumala sang tag-100 kag tag-1,000 ka soldado. Dayon gin-isip niya ang iya mga soldado nga nagaedad 20 ka tuig paibabaw, kag ang kadamuon 300,000. Ini sila maayo sa bangkaw kag taming.
Nagkuha man siya sang 100,000 ka maayo nga mga soldado halin sa Israel. Nagbayad siya sing mga 3,500 ka kilo nga pilak bilang suhol sa sini nga mga soldado.
Pero may isa ka alagad sang Dios nga nagkadto kay Amazia kag nagsiling, “Mahal nga Hari, indi ka magkuha sang mga soldado halin sa Israel, kay wala na nagaupod ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel. Ining katawhan sang Efraim wala na ginabuligan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon paupdon ninyo sila sa inaway, mapierdi gid kamo bisan mag-away pa kamo sing maayo. Ang Dios lang ang makapadaog ukon makapalaglag sa inyo.”
Nagsiling si Amazia sa alagad sang Dios, “Ti paano na lang ang ginbayad ko nga mga 3,500 ka kilo nga pilak?” Nagsabat siya, “Mas sobra pa dira ang ihatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.”
Ang ginbulos sang katawhan sang Juda kay Amazia bilang hari amo ang iya anak nga si Uzia
Nagpatindog man siya sang mga tore sa kamingawan kag nagpakutkot sang madamo nga buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig tungod madamo ang iya mga kasapatan sa mga bulobukid sa west kag sa kapatagan. Mahilig man siya magpanguma. May mga tinawo siya nga nagaatipan sa iya uma kag talamnan sang ubas sa kabukiran kag sa matambok nga kapatagan.
May maayo gid nga mga soldado si Uzia nga handa sa pagpakig-away. Ini sila gin-organisar kag gin-grupo-grupo ni Jiel nga sekretaryo kag ni Maasea nga opisyal, sa idalom sang pagdumala ni Hanania nga isa sa mga opisyal sang hari.
Ang mga kumander sang maayo nga mga soldado amo ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya nga 2,600 tanan.
Ang kadamuon sang mga soldado mga 307, 500. Ini sila eksperiensyado sa pagpakig-away, kag preparado sa pagbulig sa hari kontra sa iya mga kaaway.
Ginhatagan sila ni Uzia sang mga taming, bangkaw, helmet, bayo nga panagang sa lawas, pana, kag labyog.
Nagpahimo man si Uzia sang mga kagamitan
Pero sang nangin gamhanan na siya, nagbugalon siya. Kag amo ini ang nakapalaglag sa iya. Wala siya nagtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, kay nagsulod siya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag personal nga nagsunog sang insenso sa halaran.
Ginsunod siya ni Azaria nga pangulo nga pangulo nga pari kag sang 80 pa ka maisog nga mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo ,
kag ginsabdong. Siling nila, “Uzia, indi ka dapat magsunog sang insenso para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ina nga buluhaton iya lang sang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Aaron. Sila ang ginpili sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magsunog sang insenso. Magguwa ka sa templo, kay wala ka magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo . Indi ka pagpadunggan sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios.”
Naakig gid si Uzia sa mga pari. Kag samtang ginauyatan niya ang suludlan sang insenso sa may halaran didto sa templo, gintubuan sang delikado nga balatian sa panit
Siya ang nagbawi sang Elat
Sang makita ni Azaria nga pangulo nga pari kag sang kaupod niya nga mga pari nga gintubuan sang balatian sa panit ang agtang ni Uzia, ginpadali-dali nila siya paguwa sa templo sa templo . Siya mismo gusto magguwa gilayon, tungod kay ginsilutan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
May balatian sa panit si Haring Uzia hasta sa adlaw nga napatay siya. Nag-estar siya sa isa ka naseparar nga balay, kag wala siya gintugutan nga makasulod sa templo. Si Jotam nga iya anak amo ang nagpangulo sa palasyo kag sa katawhan sang Juda.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Uzia, halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan, ginsulat ni Propeta Isaias nga anak ni Amoz.
Sang napatay si Uzia, ginlubong siya malapit sa ginlubngan sang mga hari nga iya mga katigulangan. Wala siya ginsimpon sa ila, Wala siya ginsimpon sa ila, kay may balatian siya sa panit. Si Jotam nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagaedad si Uzia sang 16 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 52 ka tuig. Ang iya iloy amo si Jecolia nga taga-Jerusalem.
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Uzia sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sang ginhimo sang iya amay nga si Amazia.
Nagdangop siya sa Dios sang panahon ni Zacarias, nga amo ang nagtudlo sa iya sa pagtahod sa Dios. Samtang nagapadayon siya sa pagdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo , ginapauswag siya sang Dios.
Nagpakig-away siya sa mga Filistinhon kag gin-guba niya ang mga pader nga nagapalibot sa mga banwa nga nagapalibot sa mga banwa sang Gat, Jabne, kag Ashdod. Dayon nagpatindog siya sang bag-o nga mga banwa malapit sa Ashdod kag sa iban pa nga mga lugar sang Filistia.
Ginbuligan siya sang Dios sa iya nga pagpakig-away sa mga Filistinhon, mga Meunhon, kag sa mga Arabo nga nagaestar sa Gur Baal.
Nagabayad sang buhis ang mga Ammonhon sa iya, kag nangin bantog siya hasta sa Egypt, tungod nga naggamhanan na gid siya.
Ginpabakod pa gid ni Uzia ang Jerusalem paagi sa pagpatindog sang mga tore sa Pamusod nga Puwertahan, sa Puwertahan nga Nagaatubang sa Pulopatag, kag sa likuan sang pader.
Maayo ang ginhimo ni Jotam sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya amay nga si Uzia. Pero wala niya ginsunod ang sala sang iya amay nga amo ang sala sang iya amay nga amo ang pagsunog sang insenso sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sa pihak sang maayo nga pagkabuhi ni Jotam sang maayo nga pagkabuhi ni Jotam , padayon gihapon ang mga tawo sa ila malain nga mga buluhaton.
Si Jotam ang nagpatindog sang puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa north, kag madamo ang iya ginpakay-o sa pader sang bulobukid sang bulobukid sang Ofel.
Siya man ang nagpatindog sang mga banwa sa kabukiran sang Juda, kag nagpatindog sang mabakod nga mga kuta kag sang mga tore sa mga kakahuyan.
Nagpakig-away si Jotam sa mga Ammonhon kag sa ila hari, kag napierdi niya sila. Sa sina mismo nga tuig, naghatag sa iya ang mga Ammonhon sing mga 3,500 ka kilo nga pilak, 30,000 ka sako nga trigo, kag 30,000 ka sako nga barley. Ginhimo nila ini hasta sa ikatlo nga tuig.
Naggamhanan pa gid si Jotam tungod kay nagsunod siya sing matutom sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jotam, pati ang tanan niya nga pagpakig-away kag mga hinimuan, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel kag Juda.
Nagaedad si Jotam sang 25 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 16 ka tuig.
Sang napatay si Jotam, ginlubong siya sa Banwa ni David. Kag si Ahaz nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagaedad si Ahaz sang 20 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 16 ka tuig. Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , indi pareho sa ginhimo sang iya katigulangan nga si David.
Kag karon gusto pa ninyo nga ulipunon ining mga lalaki kag babayi nga halin sa Juda kag Jerusalem. Pero indi bala nga may sala man kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios?
Pamati kamo sa akon! Akig gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo. Gani papulia ninyo ang inyo mga kadugo nga inyo ginbihag.”
Amo man ini ang ginsiling sang iban nga mga pangulo sang Israel sa mga soldado nga nag-abot halin sa inaway. Ini nga mga pangulo amo sila ni Azaria nga anak ni Jehohanan, Berekia nga anak ni Meshilemot, Jehizkia nga anak ni Shalum, kag Amasa nga anak ni Hadlai.
Siling nila, “Indi ninyo pagdal-a diri ina nga mga bihag, kay salabton ta gid ini sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dugangan pa bala ninyo ang aton sala? Madamo na gani ang aton sala, kag akig na gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel.”
Gani gintugyan sang mga soldado sa mga pangulo kag sa bilog nga komunidad ang mga bihag kag ang mga pagkabutang nga naagaw nila sa inaway.
Dayon nagpalapit sa mga bihag atong apat ka pangulo nga ginmitlang ang ila mga ngalan, kag gin-asikaso nila ang mga bihag. Nagkuha sila sang mga bayo halin sa mga pagkabutang nga naagaw sang mga soldado, kag ginpasuksok ini sa mga hublas nga bihag. Ginhatagan nila ang mga bihag sang mga bayo, sandalyas, pagkaon, ilimnon, kag bulong. Ginpasakay nila sa mga donkey ang mga maluya, kag gindala nila pabalik ang tanan nga bihag sa ila mga kasimanwa. Didto nila sila ginbilin sa Jerico, sa Banwa sang mga Palma, kag pagkatapos nagpuli sila sa Samaria.
Sadto nga tion nagpangayo sang bulig si Haring Ahaz sa hari sang Assyria.
Kay ginsalakay liwat kag gindaog sang mga Edomnon ang Juda kag ginbihag ang iban nga mga pumuluyo sini.
Wala labot sini, ginsalakay man sang mga Filistinhon ang mga banwa sang Juda nga ara sa mga bulobukid sa west kag sa Negev. Naagaw nila ang Bet Shemesh, Ayalon, Gederot, Soco, Timnah, kag Gimzo, pati ang mga baryo sa palibot sini; kag didto na sila nag-estar.
Ginpaubos sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Juda tungod kay gin-ganyat ni Haring Ahaz ang mga pumuluyo sa paghimo sang kalautan, kag nagluib gid siya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsunod siya sa mga pagginawi sang mga hari sang Israel, kag naghimo sang metal nga mga imahen ni Baal.
Gani pag-abot ni Haring Tiglat Pileser sang Assyria, ginpabudlayan niya si Ahaz imbes nga buligan.
Nagpanguha si Ahaz sang mga pagkabutang sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa palasyo, kag sa mga balay sang mga opisyal, kag ginhatag niya ini sa hari sang Assyria. Pero wala ini nakabulig kay Ahaz.
Kon mag-abot ang mga kalisod kay Haring Ahaz, mas masinupakon pa gid siya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Naghalad siya sang mga halad sa mga dios sang Damascus nga nagpierdi sa iya. Kay siling niya, “Ang mga hari sang Aram ginbuligan sang ila mga dios. Gani mahalad man ako sa sini nga mga dios para buligan man nila ako.” Pero amo ini ang nakapalaglag sa iya kag sa bilog nga Israel.
Ginpanguha ni Ahaz ang mga kagamitan sa templo sang Dios kag ginpangdugmok. Ginsira niya ang mga puwertahan sang templo, kag nagpatindog siya sang mga halaran sa tagsa ka kanto sang Jerusalem.
Nagpatindog man siya sang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar sa tanan nga banwa sang Juda, para maghalad sa iban nga mga dios. Kag nakapaakig gid ini sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang iya mga katigulangan.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Ahaz kag sa iya pagginawi, halin sa umpisa hasta sa katapusan, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda kag Israel Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Juda kag Israel .
Sang napatay si Ahaz, ginlubong siya sa siyudad sang Jerusalem, pero indi sa lulubngan sang mga hari sang Israel. Kag si Hezekia nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagsunog siya sang mga halad sa Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom, kag ang iya mismo mga anak ginhalad niya sa kalayo. Ginsunod niya ang makangilil-ad nga mga ginahimo sang mga nasyon nga ginpatabog sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Gani gintugyan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios sa hari sang Aram.
Sa isa lang ka adlaw 120,000 ka soldado sang Juda ang napatay ni Haring Haring Peka sang Israel, sang Israel, nga anak ni Remalia. Natabo ini sa mga taga-Juda tungod kay ginsikway nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ginpatay ni Zicri, nga isa ka maisog nga soldado sang Israel,
Ginbihag sang mga taga-Israel ang 200,000 ka babayi kag kabataan halin sa ila mga kadugo nga mga taga-Juda. Ginpanguha man nila ang mga pagkabutang sang mga taga-Juda kag gindala puli sa Samaria.
Pero sang pag-abot sang mga soldado sa Samaria, ginsugata sila ni Oded nga propeta sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginsilingan, “Gintugyan sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios ang Juda tungod sa iya kaakig sa ila. Pero sobra ang inyo ginhimo; ginpamatay ninyo sila nga wala sing luoy-luoy, kag nahibaluan ini sang Ginoo Ginoo didto sa langit.
Pero karon desidido ako nga maghimo sang kasugtanan sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, para madula ang iya puwerte nga kaakig sa aton.
Gani mga pinalangga ko,
Sa pamilya ni Gershon: si Joa nga anak ni Zima kag si Eden nga anak ni Joa.
Sa mga kaliwat ni Asaf: si Zacarias kag si Matania.
Sa mga kaliwat ni Jedutun: si Shemaya kag si Uziel.
Gintipon nila ang ila kapareho nga mga Levita kag nagpakatinlo sila.
Nagsulod ang mga pari sa templo sa pagtinlo sini. Ginpaguwa nila sa ugsaran sang templo ang tanan nga ila nakita nga kagamitan nga ginakabig nga kagamitan nga ginakabig nga mahigko. Dayon gindala ini sang mga Levita sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig.
Nagsugod sila sa pagtinlo sang templo sang templo sa nahauna nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, kag sang ikawalo nga adlaw nakaabot sila sa balkon sang templo. Ginpadayon nila ang pagtinlo sang templo sa sulod pa gid sang walo ka adlaw, kag natapos nila ini sang ika-16 nga adlaw sang amo nga bulan.
Pagkatapos nagkadto sila kay Haring Hezekia kag nagsiling, “Natinluan na namon ang bilog nga templo sang Ginoo Ginoo pati ang halaran sang halad nga ginasunog kag ang tanan nga kagamitan sini, kag ang lamisa nga ginabutangan sang tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios kag ang tanan man nga kagamitan sini.
Nabalik man namon Nabalik man namon ang tanan nga kagamitan nga ginkuha ni Haring Ahaz tungod sa iya pagluib sa Dios. Gintinluan namon ini kag handa na nga gamiton. Ara na ini subong sa atubangan sang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Aga pa sang masunod nga adlaw, gintipon ni Haring Hezekia ang mga opisyal sang siyudad kag nagkadto sila sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagdala sila sang pito ka turo nga baka, pito ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, pito ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki, kag pito ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para sa ila ginharian, sa templo, kag sa katawhan sang katawhan sang Juda. Ginsugo ni Haring Hezekia ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Aaron sa paghalad sang sina nga mga halad sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani gin-ihaw sang mga pari ang mga turo nga baka kag ginwisik ang dugo sini sa halaran; sunod ang mga gulang nga karnero kag ginwisik man nila ang dugo sini sa halaran, dayon ang mga bataon nga karnero kag ginwisik man ang dugo sini sa halaran.
Ang mga kanding nga halad sa pagpakatinlo gindala nila sa hari kag sa komunidad, kag gintungtong nila ang ila mga kamot sa mga kanding.
Dayon gin-ihaw sang mga pari ang mga kanding kag ginbubo ang dugo sini sa halaran bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para matinluan ang sala sang tanan nga Israelinhon. Kay nagsugo ang hari nga maghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad sa pagpakatinlo para sa tanan nga Israelinhon.
Dayon nagbutang si Hezekia sang mga Levita sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga may mga cymbals, mga arpa, kag mga lira. Ini suno man sa mando sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Haring David paagi kay Gad nga propeta ni David kag kay Propeta Natan.
Nagplastar ang mga Levita nga may mga instrumento ni Haring Haring David, kag ang mga pari nga may mga trumpeta.
Dayon nagmando si Hezekia nga ihalad sa halaran ang mga halad nga ginasunog. Kag samtang nagahalad, nagakanta ang mga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginatukaran sang mga trumpeta kag iban pa nga mga instrumento ni Haring David sang Israel.
Ang bilog nga komunidad nagsimba sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo samtang nagakanta ang mga manugkanta kag nagatrumpeta ang mga manugtrumpeta hasta natapos ang tanan nga halad nga ginasunog.
Pagkatapos sang mga halad, nagluhod si Haring Hezekia Hezekia kag ang tanan nga kaupod niya kag nagsimba sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang nahauna nga bulan sang nahauna nga tuig sang iya paghari, ginpabuksan niya liwat liwat ang mga puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginpakay-o ini.
Nagsugo si Haring Hezekia kag ang iya mga opisyal sa mga Levita sa pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa mga kanta nga ginhimo ni Haring Haring David kag ni Asaf nga propeta. Gani nagkanta sila sang mga kanta sang pagdayaw nga may kalipay samtang nagaluhod sila sa pagsimba sa Dios sa Dios .
Dayon nagsiling si Hezekia, “Karon nga nahalad na ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa Ginoo Ginoo , magdala kamo sang mga halad, lakip na ang mga halad sa pagpasalamat sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .” Gani nagdala ang komunidad sang sini nga mga halad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ang iban kabubut-on nga naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog.
Ang kadamuon sang mga halad nga ginasunog nga gindala sang komunidad 70 ka turo nga baka, 100 gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 200 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki.
Nagdala man sila sang iban pa nga mga halad nga 600 ka turo nga baka kag 3,000 ka karnero kag kanding.
Pero kulang ang mga pari nga mag-ihaw sining tanan nga sapat. Gani nagbulig sa ila ang ila mga kadugo nga mga Levita hasta nga nagdamo ang mga pari nga nagpakatinlo sang ila kaugalingon para magbulig para magbulig kag hasta natapos ang amo nga obra. Kay mas matutom pa ang mga Levita sa pagpakatinlo sang ila kaugalingon sang sa mga pari.
Madamo gid ang mga halad nga ginasunog, pati mga tambok sang mga sapat nga halad para sa maayo nga relasyon, kag mga halad nga ilimnon nga ginahalad upod sa mga halad nga ginasunog. Sa sini nga paagi, nabalik liwat ang mga buluhaton sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagkalipay gid si Hezekia kag ang mga tawo tungod nga sa bulig sang Dios nahimo nila ini tanan nga madali lang.
Ginpatawag niya ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita kag ginpatipon sa ugsaran sa east sang templo sang templo .
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Pamatii ninyo ako, kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Levi. Magpakatinlo kamo
Indi matutom ang aton mga katigulangan. Malain ang ila ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios kag ginsikway nila siya. Gintalikdan nila ang templo nga templo nga ginaestaran sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagbiya sila sa iya.
Ginsiradhan nila ang mga puwertahan sa balkon sang templo kag ginpamatay ang mga suga. Wala sila magsunog sang insenso ukon maghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog sa templo para sa Dios sang Israel.
Gani nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Juda kag Jerusalem. Kag tungod sa iya nga silot sa aton, ginkangidlisan, ginkangil-aran, kag gin-insulto kita sang mga tawo pareho sang inyo nakita subong.
Nagkalamatay ang aton mga katigulangan sa inaway, kag ginpangbihag ang aton mga asawa kag mga kabataan.
Karon, nagpadala si Hezekia sang mensahi sa tanan nga katawhan sang Israel kag Juda, pati na sa katawhan sang Efraim kag Manase. Gin-imbitar niya sila sa pagkadto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel bilang pagpadungog bilang pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Nagkadto ang mga mensahero sa kada banwa sa bilog nga Efraim kag Manase hasta sa Zebulun, pero ginkadlawan lang sila kag ginyaguta sang mga tawo.
Pero may ara nga halin sa Asher, Manase, kag Zebulun nga nagpaubos sang ila kaugalingon kag nagkadto sa Jerusalem.
Nagpanghikot man ang Dios sa mga taga-Juda nga mag-isa sila sa pagtuman sang mando sang hari kag sang mga opisyal, suno sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani sang ikaduha nga bulan, madamo gid nga mga tawo ang nagtipon sa Jerusalem sa pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok.
Ginpanguha nila ang mga halaran sa Jerusalem nga ginahalaran para sa mga dios-dios nga ginahalaran para sa mga dios-dios , pati ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan sang insenso, kag ginhaboy nila ini tanan sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig.
Sang ika-14 nga adlaw sang ikaduha nga bulan, gin-ihaw sang mga tawo ang ila mga karnero para sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Ang mga pari kag mga Levita nga mahigko nga mahigko nahuya, gani nagpakatinlo sila kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagplastar sila sa ila mga puwesto sa templo sa templo , suno sa pagsulundan sa Kasuguan ni Moises nga alagad sang Dios. Ginwisik dayon sang mga pari sa halaran ang dugo nga gindala sa ila sang mga Levita.
Tungod nga madamo sa mga tawo didto ang wala makapaninlo sang ila kaugalingon, ang mga Levita amo ang nag-ihaw sang ila mga karnero para mahalad ini sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kalabanan sa mga nagkadto sa Efraim, Manase, Isacar, kag Zebulun wala makapaninlo sang ila kaugalingon, pero nagkaon gihapon sila sang ginhalad para sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel, bisan supak ini sa kasuguan. Pero nagpangamuyo si Haring Haring Hezekia para sa ila. Siling niya, Siling niya, “O Ginoo Ginoo , kabay pa nga sa imo kaayo patawaron mo ang tagsa ka tawo
nga nagahandom gid sa pagdangop sa imo, ang Dios sang iya mga katigulangan, bisan pa nga indi siya matinlo suno sa mga pagsulundan sa templo.”
Nagdesisyon si Haring Hezekia Hezekia kag ang iya mga opisyal, kag ang bilog nga komunidad sang Jerusalem, nga saulugon ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sa ikaduha nga bulan.
Ginpamatian sang Ginoo Ginoo si Hezekia kag ginpatawad niya ang mga tawo.
Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, ang mga Israelinhon nga didto sa Jerusalem nagselebrar sang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok nga may dako nga kalipay. Adlaw-adlaw nagakanta ang mga Levita kag ang mga pari sang mga pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginatukaran sang matunog nga mga instrumento nga ginagamit sa pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gindayaw ni Hezekia ang tanan nga Levita sa maayo nga trabaho nga ginpakita nila sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gani padayon ang ila pagselebrar sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Ginkaon nila ang ila parte sa mga halad, kag naghalad sila sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, kag nagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Dayon nagdesisyon ang bilog nga komunidad nga magselebrar pa gid sila sang pito pa ka adlaw. Gani ginhimo nila ini nga may dako nga kalipay.
Naghatag si Haring Hezekia sa komunidad sang 1,000 ka turo nga baka kag 7,000 ka karnero kag kanding. Naghatag man ang mga opisyal sang 1,000 ka turo nga baka kag 10,000 ka karnero kag kanding. Madamo sa mga pari ang nagpakatinlo sang ila kaugalingon.
Nagsinadya ang bilog nga komunidad sang Juda, ang mga pari, ang mga Levita, kag ang tanan nga nagtipon halin sa Israel, pati ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar sa Israel kag Juda.
Puwerte gid kasadya sa Jerusalem. Wala sing pareho sini nga natabo sa Jerusalem halin sang panahon nga si Solomon nga anak ni David ang hari sa Israel.
Dayon nagtindog ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita kag ginbendisyunan nila ang mga tawo. Kag ginpamatian ini sang Dios sa iya balaan nga puluy-an sa langit.
Dapat kuntani nga saulugon ang ini nga piesta sa nahauna nga bulan, pero diutay lang ang mga pari nga nagpakatinlo sa sina nga tion kag wala makatipon ang mga tawo sa Jerusalem.
Ining plano sa pagselebrar sang piesta nagustuhan sang hari kag sang bilog nga komunidad,
gani naghatag sila sang pahibalo sa bilog nga Israel, halin sa Beersheba hasta sa Dan, nga magkadto ang mga tawo sa Jerusalem sa pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel bilang pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel. Sang nagliligad nga mga selebrasyon, diutay lang ang nagatambong, pero indi dapat amo ini suno sa kasuguan.
“Katawhan sang Israel, karon nga nakaluwas kamo sa kamot sang mga hari sang Assyria, tion na nga magbalik kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan nga sila ni Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob,
Indi ninyo pagsunda ang inyo mga katigulangan kag mga kadugo nga indi matutom sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, nga tungod sini ginhimo sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga makangilil-ad pareho sang inyo nakita sa ila.
Indi kamo magpakatig-a sang inyo ulo pareho sa inyo mga katigulangan, kundi magpasakop kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Magkadto kamo sa templo nga iya ginpakabalaan hasta san-o. Kag mag-alagad kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, para madula ang iya puwerte nga kaakig sa inyo.
Kay kon magbalik kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo , kaluoyan ang inyo mga kabataan kag mga kaparyentihan sang mga nagbihag sa ila, kag pabalikon sila sa sini nga duta. Kay mabinalak-on kag maluluy-on ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Indi gid siya magtalikod sa inyo kon magbalik kamo sa iya.”
Pagkatapos sang piesta, ang mga Israelinhon nga nagtambong didto nagkadto sa mga banwa sang Juda kag ginpangdugmok nila ang handumanan nga mga bato kag ginpang-utod ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Ginpangguba nila ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar kag ang mga halaran sa bilog nga Juda kag Benjamin, kag sa Efraim kag Manase. Pagkatapos nila tanan pangguba nagpuli sila sa ila mga banwa kag duta.
Nagsabat si Azaria, ang pangulo nga pari nga kaliwat ni Zadok, “Halin sang magsugod dala ang mga tawo sang ila mga halad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo bastante ang amon pagkaon kag madamo pa ang sobra, tungod kay ginpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya katawhan.”
Nagsugo si Hezekia sa paghimo sang mga bodega sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag natuman ini.
Kag matutom nga gindala didto sang mga tawo ang ila mga halad, mga ikanapulo, kag ang mga butang nga gindedikar nila sa Ginoo Ginoo . Si Conania nga isa ka Levita amo ang gintugyanan sini nga mga butang, kag ang iya kabulig amo ang iya utod nga lalaki nga si Shimei.
Nagbulig man sa pagdumala sa idalom nila sanday Jehiel, Azazia, Nahat, Asahel, Jerimot, Jozabad, Eliel, Ismakia, Mahat, kag Benaya. Ginpili sila ni Haring Hezekia kag ni Azaria nga pinakamataas nga opisyal sang templo sang Dios.
Si Kore nga anak ni Imna nga Levita, nga guwardya sa east nga puwertahan sang templo, amo ang gintugyanan sa pagdumala sa mga halad nga kinabubut-on sa Dios. Responsibilidad niya ang pagpanagtag sa mga pari kag mga Levita sa mga pari kag mga Levita sang mga butang nga gindedikar sa Ginoo Ginoo kag sang mga balaan nga halad.
Ang iya matutom nga mga kabulig amo sila ni Eden, Miniamin, Jeshua, Shemaya, Amaria, kag Shecania. Nagkadto sila sa mga banwa nga ginaestaran sang mga pari nga ila kadugo kag ginpanagtag sa ila ang ila parte sa mga halad, suno sa ila grupo, bata man ukon tigulang.
Ginhatagan ang tanan nga pari pati ang ila nga mga anak nga lalaki pati ang ila nga mga anak nga lalaki nga nagaedad tatlo ka tuig paibabaw, nga nagakadto sa templo sa paghimo sang ila adlaw-adlaw nga buluhaton suno sa responsibilidad sang tagsa nila ka grupo. Nalakip man diri ang mga pari nga wala malista sa listahan sang mga kaliwat sang mga pari.
Ini sila kag Ini sila kag ang mga pari nga ara sa listahan ginhatagan sang ila parte, kag amo man ang mga Levita nga nagaedad 20 ka tuig paibabaw, nga nagaalagad suno sa responsibilidad sang tagsa nila ka grupo.
Ginhatagan man ang mga pamilya sang mga Levita—ang ila mga asawa, mga anak, pati ang ila magagmay nga mga kabataan. Ginhimo ini sa tanan nga Levita nga nalista sa listahan sang mga kaliwat, kay matutom sila sa pagpakatinlo sang ila kaugalingon.
Kon parte sa mga pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron nga nagaestar sa mga uma sa palibot nga mga banwa, may mga tawo nga gintugyanan sa pagpanagtag sang ila parte kag sang parte sang tanan nga Levita nga nalista sa listahan sang mga kaliwat.
Gin-grupo-grupo ni Haring Haring Hezekia ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita suno sa tagsa nila ka buluhaton—sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, sa pag-alagad sa templo sang Ginoo sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa pagpasalamat kag sa pagkanta sang mga pagdayaw sa mga puwertahan sang templo.
Amo ato ang ginhimo ni Haring Haring Hezekia sa bilog nga Juda. Ginhimo niya ang maayo kag husto, kag matutom siya sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios.
Nagmadinalag-on siya, tungod kay sa tanan niya nga ginhimo para sa templo sang Dios kag sa pagtuman niya sang kasuguan, nagdangop siya sa iya Dios sa bug-os niya nga tagipusuon.
Naghatag si Haring Hezekia Hezekia sang iya kaugalingon nga mga sapat para sa mga halad nga ginasunog aga kag hapon, kag para man sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, sa Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, kag sa iban pa nga natalana nga mga piesta, suno sa nasulat sa Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginmanduan man niya ang mga tawo nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem nga maghatag sang parte sang mga pari kag mga Levita para makaalagad sila sing bug-os sa Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang mapahibalo na ini sa mga tawo, maalwan nga naghatag ang mga Israelinhon sang nahauna nga parte sang patubas sang ila mga uyas, duga sang ubas, lana, honey, kag sang iban pa nga mga produkto sang duta. Ginhatag nila ang ikanapulo sang tanan nila nga produkto.
Ang mga taga-Israel nga nagsaylo sa Juda, kag ang mga taga-Juda mismo, naghatag man sang ikanapulo sang ila mga baka, karnero kag kanding, kag ikanapulo sang mga butang nga ila gindedikar sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios. Kag ila ini gintumpok.
Nag-umpisa sila sa pagtumpok sini sang ikatatlo nga bulan, kag natapos sang ikapito nga bulan.
Sang makita ni Hezekia kag sang iya iya mga opisyal ang mga tinumpok, gindayaw nila ang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Ginpamangkot ni Hezekia ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita parte sa mga tinumpok.
Pagkatapos nga nahimo ni Hezekia ang iya mga buluhaton nga may katutom, ginsalakay ni Haring Senakerib sang Assyria ang Juda. Ginpalibutan niya kag sang iya nga soldado kag sang iya nga soldado ang napaderan nga mga banwa, kay naghunahuna siya nga madaog niya ini para sa iya kaugalingon.
“Amo ini ang ginsiling ni Haring Senakerib sang Assyria: Ano bala ang inyo ginasaligan, nga nagapabilin gihapon kamo sa Jerusalem bisan ginapalibutan na kamo?
Nagsiling si Hezekia sa inyo nga luwason kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios sa kamot sang hari sang Assyria. Pero ginapatalang lang niya kamo, kay kon magpabilin kamo sa Jerusalem kay kon magpabilin kamo sa Jerusalem magakalamatay kamo sa gutom kag kauhaw.
Indi bala nga si Hezekia mismo ang nagpaguba sang mga simbahan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mataas nga mga lugar, pati sang mga halaran sini? Nagsugo pa siya sa inyo nga mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem nga dapat magsimba kamo kag magsunog sang mga halad sa isa lang ka halaran.
“Nahibaluan ninyo kon ano ang ginhimo ko kag sang akon mga katigulangan sa mga katawhan sa iban nga mga nasyon. Ti, naluwas bala sila sang ila mga dios sa akon kamot?
Wala gid sing bisan isa sa mga dios sang mga nasyon nga ginlaglag ko ukon ko ukon sang akon mga katigulangan nga nakaluwas sa iya katawhan sa akon kamot. Ti, makaluwas man bala sa inyo ang inyo dios sa akon kamot?
Indi kamo magpatalang ukon magpatunto kay Hezekia. Indi kamo magpati sa iya, kay wala sing dios sa bisan diin nga nasyon ukon ginharian nga nakaluwas sa iya katawhan sa akon kamot ukon sa kamot sang akon mga katigulangan. Kag labi na gid ang inyo dios!”
May gindugang pa gid nga malain nga mga pulong ang mga opisyal ni Senakerib kontra sa Ginoong Ginoong Dios kag sa iya alagad nga si Hezekia.
Nagpadala pa gid si Haring Senakerib sang mga sulat nga nagainsulto sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel. Amo ini ang iya sulat: “Ang mga dios sang iban nga mga nasyon wala makaluwas sang ila katawhan sa akon kamot. Gani ang dios ni Hezekia indi man makaluwas sang iya katawhan sa akon kamot.”
Ginhambal ini sing mabaskog sang mga opisyal ni Senakerib sa Hebreo nga lingguahe para pakulbaan ang mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem nga nagatipon sa may pader. Kay kon mahadlok na ang mga tawo, madali nila maagaw ang siyudad.
Ini nga mga opisyal naghambal sing malain kontra sing malain kontra sa Dios sang Jerusalem pareho sa ila ginhambal kontra sa ila ginhambal kontra sa mga dios sang iban nga mga nasyon nga hinimo lang sang tawo.
Sang makita ni Hezekia nga pati ang Jerusalem salakayon ni Senakerib,
Nagpanawag sa Dios sa Dios sa langit si Haring Hezekia kag si Propeta Isaias nga anak ni Amoz.
Kag nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang anghel nga naglaglag sang maayo nga mga soldado, mga kumander, kag mga opisyal sang Assyria didto sa kampo sang hari sang Assyria. Gani nagpuli si Haring Senakerib nga nahuy-an gid. Kag sang pagsulod niya sa templo sang iya dios, ginpatay siya sang iban niya nga mga anak paagi sa espada.
Gani ginluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo si Hezekia kag ang katawhan sang Jerusalem sa kamot ni Haring Senakerib sang Assyria kag sa kamot sang iban pa nila nga mga kaaway. Ginhatagan niya sila sang kalinong
Madamo nga tawo ang nagdala sang mga halad sa Jerusalem para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagdala man sila sang mga malahalon nga mga regalo para kay Haring Hezekia. Halin sadto ginpadunggan si Hezekia sang tanan nga nasyon.
Sadto nga tion nagmasakit si Hezekia kag daw mapatay na siya. Nagpangamuyo siya sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginhatagan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sang isa ka tanda nga magaayo siya.
Pero nagpabugal si Hezekia kag ginbaliwala niya ang kaayo nga ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya. Gani nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya kag sa mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem.
Dayon naghinulsol si Hezekia sa iya nga pagpabugal, kag amo man ang katawhan sang Jerusalem. Gani wala ginpaagom sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kaakig sa ila samtang buhi pa si Hezekia.
Manggaranon kag dungganon gid si Hezekia. Nagpahimo siya sang mga bodega para sa iya mga pilak, bulawan, malahalon nga mga bato, panakot, taming, kag iban pa nga malahalon nga mga butang.
Nagpahimo man siya sang mga bodega para sa iya mga uyas, duga sang ubas, kag lana. Luwas sini, nagpahimo man siya sang mga toril para sa iya mga kasapatan,
kay puwerte gid kadamo sang iya mga kasapatan. Nagpatindog man siya sang mga banwa, tungod nga ginhatagan siya sang Dios sang madamo gid nga manggad.
nagpakig-estorya siya sa iya mga opisyal kag sa mga pangulo sang iya mga soldado. Nagdesisyon sila nga pauntaton nila ang pag-ilig sang mga tuburan sa guwa sang siyudad.
Si Hezekia ang nagsugo nga tabunan ang guluwaan sang tubig sa ibabaw nga parte sang tuburan sang Gihon kag pailigon ini pakadto sa west sang Banwa ni David. Nagmadinalag-on si Hezekia sa tanan nga iya ginhimo.
Pero ginpabay-an siya sang Dios sang pag-abot sang mga opisyal halin sa Babilonia nga nag-usisa parte sa makatilingala nga natabo sa Juda. Ginhimo ini sang Dios para mahibaluan gid kon ano ang ara sa tagipusuon ni Hezekia.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Hezekia kag sa iya paghigugma
Sang napatay si Hezekia, ginlubong siya sa ibabaw nga parte sang lulubngan sang mga kaliwat ni David. Ginpadunggan siya sang tanan nga katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem sang pagkapatay niya. Kag ang iya anak nga si Manase amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Gani nagtipon sila sang madamo gid nga mga tawo kag gintabunan nila ang mga ginaagyan sang tubig halin sa mga tuburan nga nagailig sa kadutaan. Kay siling nila, “Pag-abot diri sang mga hari sang Assyria, wala sila sang may makuhaan sang tubig.”
Dayon ginpapag-on pa gid ni Hezekia ang iya mga depensa paagi sa pagpakay-o sang mga pader kag pagpatindog sang mga tore. Ginpalibutan pa gid niya sang isa pa ka pader ang siyudad sa guwa sang daan nga pader, kag ginpatumpukan niya ang manubo nga parte
Nagbutang siya sang mga kumander sa mga tawo, kag ginpatipon niya sila sa plasa, sa may puwertahan dampi sang siyudad. Ginpabakod niya sila nga nagasiling,
“Magpakabakod kamo kag magpakaisog. Indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magkaluya tungod sa hari sang Assyria ukon sa iya madamo nga soldado. Kay may mas gamhanan nga nagaupod sa aton sang sa iya.
Mga tawo lang ang iya kaupod, pero ang aton iya, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios. Siya ang magabulig sa aton kag magapakig-away para sa aton.” Gani nagbakod ang mga tawo tungod sa ginsiling ni Haring Hezekia sang Juda.
Samtang ginapalibutan ni Haring Senakerib kag sang iya mga soldado ang banwa sang banwa sang Lakish, ginpadala niya ang iya mga opisyal sa Jerusalem sa pagsiling sini kay Haring Hezekia kag sa mga katawhan didto:
Nagaedad si Manase sang dose ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 55 ka tuig.
Bisan ginpaandaman sang Ginoo Ginoo si Manase kag ang iya katawhan, wala gihapon sila magpamati sa iya.
Gani ginpasalakay sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga soldado sang Assyria. Ginbihag nila si Manase, ginkaw-itan sa ilong sa ilong , ginkadenahan sang saway, kag gindala sa Babilonia.
Sa iya kalisod, nagpaubos gid siya sang iya kaugalingon kag nagpakitluoy sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios, nga Dios man sang iya mga katigulangan.
Kag sang nagpangamuyo siya, ginpamatian siya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Natandog ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya nga pagpakitluoy. Gani ginpabalik siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem kag sa iya ginharian. Dayon nareyalisar ni Manase nga ang Ginoo Ginoo lang ang Dios.
Umpisa sadto, ginpakay-o ni Manase ang pangguwa nga pader sang Banwa ni David, halin sa west sang tuburan sang tuburan sang Gihon sa may ililigan sang tubig hasta sa Puwertahan sang mga Isda,
Ginpakuha niya ang mga dios-dios sang taga-iban nga nasyon kag ang imahen sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpakuha man niya ang mga halaran sa bukid nga ginatindugan sang templo kag ang mga halaran sa iban nga parte sang Jerusalem, kag ginpahaboy ini sa guwa sang siyudad.
Dayon ginpakay-o niya ang halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginhalaran sang mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon kag mga halad sa pagpasalamat. Ginhambalan niya ang mga pumuluyo sang Juda nga mag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Sa gihapon nagahalad ang mga tawo sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, pero ginahalad na nila ini sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Manase, pati ang iya pangamuyo sa Dios kag ang mga ginhambal sang mga propeta sa iya sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel.
Ang pangamuyo ni Manase kag ang sabat sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, pati ang tanan niya nga sala kag pagluib sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo , nasulat sa Libro sang mga Propeta. Nalista man diri ang mga lugar nga ginpatindugan niya sang mga simbahan, sang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, kag sang iban pa nga mga dios-dios sa wala pa siya makapaubos sang iya kaugalingon sa Dios sa Dios .
Sang napatay si Manase, ginlubong siya sa iya palasyo. Kag si Amon nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagaedad si Amon sang 22 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.
Malain ang ginhimo ni Amon sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo , pareho sa ginhimo sang iya amay nga si Manase. Ginsimba kag ginhalaran niya ang mga dios-dios nga ginpahimo ni Manase.
Pero indi siya pareho sa iya amay, kay wala siya nagpaubos sang iya kaugalingon sa Ginoo Ginoo . Sa baylo, gindugangan pa gid niya ang iya pagpakasala.
Ginpatindog niya liwat ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar nga ginpaguba sadto sang iya amay nga si Hezekia. Nagpatindog man siya sang mga halaran para sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal kag nagpahimo sang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Nagluhod siya kag nagsimba sa tanan nga butang sa kalangitan.
Nagpahimo pa gid siya sang mga halaran sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga suno sa Ginoo Ginoo ang templo sa templo sa Jerusalem amo ang lugar nga sa diin padunggan siya hasta san-o.
Ginhalad niya ang iya mga bata sa kalayo
Ginbutang niya sa templo sang Dios ang imahen nga iya ginpahimo. Kon parte sa sini nga templo, nagsiling ang Dios kay David kag sa iya anak nga si Solomon, “Padunggan ako hasta san-o sa sini nga templo kag sa Jerusalem, ang lugar nga akon ginpili sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel.
Kon tumanon lang sang katawhan sang Israel ang tanan ko nga kasuguan kag pagsulundan nga ginhatag sa ila ni Moises, indi ko pagtugutan nga pahalinon sila sa sini nga duta nga ginhatag ko sa ila mga katigulangan.”
Pero gin-ganyat ni Manase ang katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem sa paghimo sang malain, kag ang ila ginhimo mas malain pa sang sa ginhimo sang mga nasyon nga ginpalaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Nagaedad si Josia sang walo ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 31 ka tuig.
Dayon ginhatag ang kuwarta sa mga tawo nga gintugyanan sa pagdumala sang pagpakay-o sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag gin-gamit nila ini sa pagsuhol sa mga manug-obra.
Ang iban nga kuwarta ginhatag nila sa mga manug-obra para ibakal sang mga bato nga nabasbasan na kag sang mga kahoy para sa balayan sang templo
Matutom gid ang mga manug-obra sa ila trabaho. Gindumalahan sila sang apat ka apat ka mga Levita nga sila ni Jahat kag Obadias, nga mga kaliwat ni Merari, kag Zacarias kag Meshulam, nga mga kaliwat ni Kohat. Ini nga mga Levita maayo magtukar sang mga instrumento.
Sila ang gintugyanan sa pagdumala sa mga manug-obra nga may nagkalain-lain nga trabaho. Ang iban nga mga Levita nag-alagad bilang mga sekretaryo, mga eksperto sa pagsulat sang mga dokumento, kag mga manugbantay sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo .
Samtang ginakuha ang kuwarta nga ginkolekta sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nakita ni Hilkia nga pari ang Libro sang Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginhatag sa mga Israelinhon sa mga Israelinhon paagi kay Moises.
Ginbalita niya kay Shafan, nga sekretaryo sang hari sang hari , nga nakita niya ang Libro sang Kasuguan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayon ginhatag niya ini kay Shafan,
kag gindala ini ni Shafan sa hari. Nagsiling dayon siya sa hari, “Ginhimo namon nga mga opisyal ang tanan nga ginpahimo mo sa amon.
Ginkuha namon ang kuwarta sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginhatag sa mga gintugyanan sa pagpakay-o sang templo.”
Pagkabati sang hari sang nasulat sa Kasuguan, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo .
Nagmando dayon siya kay Hilkia, kay Ahikam nga anak ni Shafan, kay Abdon nga anak ni Micas, kay Shafan nga sekretaryo, kag kay Asaya nga iya personal nga alagad. Siling niya, Siling niya,
“Magpamangkot kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo para sa akon kag para sa nabilin nga katawhan sang Israel kag Juda parte sining nasulat sa libro nga nakita. Puwerte gid ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton tungod kay wala nagtuman ang aton mga katigulangan sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga sundon ang mga nasulat sa sini nga libro.”
Gani naglakat si Hilkia kag ang mga ginsugo mga ginsugo sang hari nga mag-upod sa iya nga mag-upod sa iya sa isa ka propeta nga babayi nga si Hulda sa pagpamangkot sa iya. Ining si Hulda nagaestar sa bag-o nga parte sang Jerusalem kag asawa siya ni Shalum nga anak ni Tokhat kag apo ni Hasra. Si Shalum amo ang nagaatipan sang mga bayo sa templo.
“Pero silinga ninyo ang hari sang Juda nga nagpadala sa inyo sa pagpamangkot sa Ginoo Ginoo nga indi siya matublag nga indi siya matublag sa ato nga mensahi, kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel:
Ginpamatian ko ang imo pangamuyo, kay naghinulsol ka kag nagpaubos sang imo kaugalingon sa akon atubangan sang mabatian mo ang akon ginsiling kontra sa sini nga lugar kag sa mga pumuluyo sini. Gin-gisi mo pa gani ang imo bayo kag naghibi sa akon atubangan sa paghinulsol. Gani ako, sa paghinulsol. Gani ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga
Sang ikawalo nga tuig sang iya paghari, samtang bata pa siya, nagsugod siya sa pagdangop sa Dios sang iya katigulangan nga si David. Kag sang ikadose nga tuig sang iya paghari, nagsugod siya sa pagtinlo sa Juda kag Jerusalem paagi sa pagpaguba paagi sa pagpaguba sang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, sang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, sang mga dios-dios kag sang mga imahen.
Nagkadto siya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo upod ang tanan nga katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem halin sa pinakadungganon hasta sa pinakakubos. Nag-upod man ang mga pari kag mga Levita. Ginbasa ni Josia sa ila ang tanan nga nasulat sa Libro sang Kasugtanan, nga nakita sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dayon nagtindog si Josia sa kilid sang haligi.
Kag ginpapromisa man niya ang mga katawhan sang Jerusalem kag Benjamin nga magtuman sa kasugtanan sang Dios sang Dios . Gani nagtuman sila sa kasugtanan sang Dios, ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Dayon ginpakuha ni Josia ang tanan nga makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios sa bilog nga duta sang Israel, kag ginpaalagad ang mga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios. Samtang buhi siya, ginsunod gid nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ginpaguba man niya ang mga halaran para sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal kag ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan sang insenso sa tupad sini. Ginpadugmok niya ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, ang mga dios-dios kag ang mga imahen, kag dayon ginsabwag niya ini sa mga lulubngan sang mga tawo nga naghalad sa sini nga mga butang.
Ginpasunog man niya ang mga tul-an sang mga pari sang sini nga mga dios-dios sang sini nga mga dios-dios sa mga halaran nga ila ginahalaran. Sa sini nga paagi gintinluan niya ang Juda kag Jerusalem.
Amo man ini ang ginhimo niya sa mga banwa sang Manase, Efraim, kag Simeon, kag hasta sa Naftali, pati sa mga guba nga mga banwa sa palibot sini.
Ginpaguba niya ang mga halaran kag ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, kag ginpadugmok ang mga dios-dios kag ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan sang insenso. Pagkatapos nga nahimo niya ini sa bilog nga Israel, nagpuli siya sa Jerusalem.
Sang ika-18 nga tuig sang paghari ni Josia, pagkatapos nga natinluan niya ang duta kag ang templo, nagdesisyon siya sa pagpakay-o sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios. Gintugyan niya ini nga obra kay Shafan nga anak ni Azalia, sa gobernador sang Juda nga si Maasea, kag sa manugdumala sang mga kasulatan sang ginharian nga si Joa, nga anak ni Joahaz.
Ini sila nagkadto kay Hilkia nga pangulo nga pari sa paghatag sang kuwarta nga gindala sang mga tawo sa templo sang Dios. Ini nga kuwarta ginkolekta sang mga Levita nga nagabantay sang puwertahan sang templo halin sa mga katawhan sang Manase, Efraim, kag sa nabilin nga katawhan sang Israel, kag sa mga katawhan sang Juda kag Benjamin, pati na sa mga nagaestar sa Jerusalem.
Sang ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, nagselebrar si Haring Haring Josia sa Jerusalem sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel bilang pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nag-ihaw sila para sa sini nga piesta.
Sang handa na ang tanan para sa piesta, nagplastar ang mga pari kag mga Levita sa templo, suno sa responsibilidad sang tagsa nila ka grupo, kay amo ini ang sugo sang hari.
Gin-ihaw sang mga Levita ang mga karnero kag mga kanding, kag ginhatag ang dugo sa mga pari. Ginwisik-wisik ini sang mga pari sa halaran samtang ginapanitan sang mga Levita ang mga sapat.
Dayon ginpartida nila sa tagsa ka grupo sang mga pamilya ang mga halad nga ginasunog para ihalad sa Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa nasulat sa Libro ni Moises. Amo man ang ginhimo nila sa mga baka.
Dayon ginlitson nila ang mga sapat nga pangpiesta, suno sa nasulat sa kasuguan, kag ginlaga ang balaan nga mga halad sa mga kolon, mga kaldero, kag mga kawa, kag ginpanagtag gilayon sa mga tawo.
Sang ulihi nagpreparar ang mga Levita sang pagkaon para sa ila kaugalingon kag sa mga pari, tungod kay ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Aaron masako sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang mga tambok sang sapat hasta maggab-i.
Ang mga musikero nga mga kaliwat ni Asaf ara sa ila puwesto sa templo sa templo , suno sa pagsulundan nga ginhatag ni David, Asaf, Heman, kag Jedutun nga propeta sang hari. Ang mga guwardya sang tagsa ka puwertahan sang templo sang templo wala na naghalin sa ila puwesto kay ang ila kapareho nga mga Levita amo ang nagpreparar sang ila pagkaon.
Natapos sadto nga adlaw ang bilog nga seremonya para sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel nga ginselebrar para sa Ginoo Ginoo , pati ang paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa ginsugo ni Haring Josia.
Ginsaulog sang mga nagtambong nga mga Israelinhon ang ina nga piesta, pati ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Halin sang panahon ni Samuel, wala maselebrar ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel nga pareho sini. Wala gid makaselebrar ang mga nagligad nga mga hari pareho sang pagselebrar ni Haring Haring Josia kag sang mga pari, mga Levita, mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem, kag sang mga katawhan sang bilog nga Juda kag Israel.
Ginselebrar ang ina nga piesta sang ika-18 nga tuig sang paghari ni Josia.
Ginhatagan ni Josia ang mga pari sang ila responsibilidad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginpabaskog niya sila sa ila pag-alagad.
Pagkatapos sining mga ginhimo ni Josia para sa templo, ginpangunahan ni Haring Neco sang Egypt ang iya mga soldado ang iya mga soldado sa pagpakig-away didto sa Carkemish, sa may Suba sang Suba sang Euphrates. Nagkadto didto si Josia kag ang iya mga soldado kag ang iya mga soldado sa pagpakig-away kay Neco.
Pero nagpadala si Neco sang mga mensahero kay Josia sa pagsiling, “Ano ang labot mo sa akon, Hari sang Juda? Indi ikaw ang akon ginasalakay kundi ang nasyon nga nagapakig-away sa akon. Kag nagsiling ang Dios sa akon nga dali-dalion ko ang pagsalakay. Gani indi pagkontraha ang Dios nga kaupod ko, kay basi kon laglagon ka niya.”
Pero wala mag-atras si Josia kay Neco. Wala siya magpamati kay Neco nga ginhambalan gid man sang Dios. Sa baylo, nagpakuno-kuno siya kag naglakat para magpakig-away kay Neco sa patag sang Megido.
Ginpana si Josia kag napilasan siya kag napilasan siya . Siling niya sa iya mga opisyal, “Kuhaa ninyo ako diri, kay grabe gid ang akon pilas.”
Gani ginkuha nila siya sa iya karwahe kag ginkarga sa isa pa niya ka karwahe kag gindala sa Jerusalem. Napatay siya didto kag ginlubong sa lulubngan sang iya mga katigulangan. Nagpangasubo para sa iya ang tanan nga katawhan sang katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem.
Naghimo si Jeremias sang mga panalambiton para kay Josia, kag hasta subong ginakanta ini sang mga manugkanta sa pagdumdom sa iya. Ini nga mga panalambiton masami nga ginakanta sa Israel, kag nasulat sa Mga Panalambiton.
Ginhatagan man niya sang mga responsibilidad ang mga Levita nga mga manunudlo sang Israel, nga gindedikar sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siling niya sa ila, “Nabutang na ang balaan nga kahon sa templo nga ginpatindog ni Solomon nga anak ni David, kag indi na kinahanglan nga dal-on pa ninyo. Gamita na ninyo ang inyo tion sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag sa iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Himua na ninyo ang inyo mga trabaho sa templo sa templo suno sa responsibilidad sang tagsa ninyo ka pamilya. Sunda ninyo ang nasulat nga mga pagsulundan ni Haring David sang Israel, kag sang iya anak nga si Solomon.
Magplastar kamo sa templo suno sa inyo grupo, kag magbulig kamo sa mga pamilya nga nagahalad, nga gintugyan sa inyo.
Personal nga naghatag si Josia sang 30,000 ka karnero kag kanding, kag 3,000 ka baka, para sa halad sang mga tawo sa tion sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Naghatag man sing kinabubut-on ang mga opisyal ni Josia sa mga tawo, mga pari, kag mga Levita. Ang mga administrador sang templo nga sila ni Hilkia, Zacarias, kag Jehiel naghatag sa ila kapareho nga mga pari sang 2,600 ka karnero kag kanding, kag 300 ka baka, bilang halad sa piesta.
Ang mga pangulo sang mga Levita nga sila ni Conania, ang iya mga utod nga si Shemaya kag Netanel, si Hashabia, Jiel, kag Jozabad naghatag sa ila kapareho nga mga Levita sang 5,000 ka karnero kag kanding, kag 500 ka baka, bilang halad sa piesta.
Ang anak ni Josia nga si Jehoahaz amo ang ginbulos sang mga tawo nga hari sa Jerusalem.
Pagsugod sang bag-o nga tuig, ginbihag ni Haring Nebucadnezar si Jehoyakin sa Babilonia. Ginpanguha niya ang malahalon nga mga pagkabutang sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginhimo niya ang tiyo ni Jehoyakin nga si Zedekia nga hari sang Juda kag Jerusalem.
Nagaedad si Zedekia sang 21 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 11 ka tuig.
Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios kag wala siya nagpaubos sang iya kaugalingon kay Propeta Jeremias nga manughambal sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagrebelde man siya kay Haring Nebucadnezar, bisan ginpasumpa niya siya sa ngalan sang Dios nga indi siya magtraidor sa iya nga indi siya magtraidor sa iya . Matig-a gid ang tagipusuon ni Zedekia. Indi gid siya magbalik sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Wala labot sa iya, ang tanan nga pangulo sang mga pari kag sang katawhan nangin maluibon pa gid sa Dios sa Dios . Ginsunod nila ang makangilil-ad nga mga ginahimo sang iban nga mga nasyon kag gindagtaan nila ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginpakabalaan niya sa Jerusalem.
Permi nagapakighambal sa ila ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang ila mga katigulangan, paagi sa iya mga mensahero, tungod kay naluoy siya sa ila kag sa iya templo.
Pero ginyaguta nila ang mga mensahero sang Dios. Ginbaliwala nila iya mga mensahi kag gin-insulto ang iya mga propeta. Gani nangakig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila, kag wala sing may makapugong sa iya.
Ginpasalakay niya ang mga taga-Babilonia
Gindala ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia ang tanan nga kagamitan sa templo sang Dios, gagmay kag dalagko, kag ang tanan nga manggad sang templo, sang hari, kag sang iya mga opisyal.
Ginsunog nila ang templo sang Dios kag ginrumpag ang pader sang Jerusalem. Ginsunog man nila ang tanan nga mabakod nga parte sang siyudad, kag gin-guba ang tanan nga malahalon nga mga butang.
Nagaedad si Jehoahaz sang 23 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan.
Ginbihag ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia ang mga Israelinhon nga wala mapatay, kag nangin mga ulipon niya sila kag sang iya mga anak hasta nga naggahom ang ginharian sang Persia.
Gani natuman ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Propeta Propeta Jeremias nga mangin mamingaw ang duta kag makapahuway ini sa sulod sang 70 ka tuig.
Sang nahauna nga tuig sang paghari ni Cyrus sa Persia, gintandog sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tagipusuon ni Cyrus nga magsulat sang isa ka pahibalo nga isugid sa bilog niya nga ginharian. Natabo ini Natabo ini para matuman ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Jeremias.
“Ginhatag sa akon sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang langit,
Sang ulihi ginpahalin siya sa trono sang hari sang Egypt nga si Neco nga si Neco , kag ginpabayad ni Neco ang Juda sang buhis nga mga 3,500 ka kilo nga pilak kag 35 ka kilo nga bulawan.
Ginbihag ni Neco si Jehoahaz sa Egypt, kag ginhimo niya si Eliakim nga utod ni Jehoahaz nga hari sang Juda kag Jerusalem. Gin-ilisan ni Neco ang ngalan ni Eliakim nga Jehoyakim.
Nagaedad si Jehoyakim sang 25 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang 11 ka tuig. Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios.
Ginsalakay siya ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag ginkadenahan, kag gindala sa Babilonia.
Gindala man ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia ang iban nga mga kagamitan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginbutang sa iya palasyo.
Ang iban pa nga estorya parte sa paghari ni Jehoyakim kag ang mga makangilil-ad kag malain nga mga butang nga iya ginhimo nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Israel kag Juda. Kag si Jehoyakin nga iya anak amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Nagaedad si Jehoyakin sang 18 ka tuig sang nangin hari siya. Sa Jerusalem siya nag-estar, kag siya nag-estar, kag naghari siya sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan kag napulo ka adlaw. Malain ang iya ginhimo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Tanan-tanan, may mga 5,400 ka kagamitan nga bulawan kag pilak. Gindala ini tanan ni Sheshbazar sang nagbalik siya sa Jerusalem halin sa Babilonia kaupod sang iban nga mga ginbihag.
Kamo tanan nga katawhan sang Dios, magbalik na kamo sa Jerusalem kag patinduga ninyo liwat didto ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga nagapuyo sa sina nga siyudad. Kag kabay pa nga updan niya kamo.
Ang mga katawhan sa mga lugar nga ginaestaran ninyo nga mga Israelinhon nga nagkalabilin, dapat magbulig sa inyo, sa inyo nga paglakat. Maghatag sila sang mga pilak kag bulawan, mga kinahanglanon nga mga butang, mga sapat, kag kinabubut-on nga bulig para sa templo sang Dios sa Jerusalem.”
May mga Israelinhon nga gintandog sang Dios nga magbalik sa Jerusalem. Gani nagpreparar sila sa pagkadto didto para patindugon ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kaupod sa ila amo ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang tribo ni Juda kag sang tribo ni Benjamin, ang mga pari, kag ang mga Levita.
Ang iban nga mga katawhan nagbulig sa ila paagi sa paghatag sang mga kagamitan nga hinimo halin sa pilak, mga bulawan, mga kinahanglanon nga mga butang, mga sapat, iban pa nga malahalon nga mga butang, kag kinabubut-on nga bulig para sa templo para sa templo .
Gin-uli man sa ila ni Haring Cyrus ang mga kagamitan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginkuha ni Haring Nebucadnezar sa Jerusalem kag gindala sa templo sang iya mga dios-dios.
Gintugyan ini ni Haring Cyrus kay Mitredat nga tresurero sang iya ginharian. Gin-isip ini ni Mitredat kag ginhatag ang lista kay Sheshbazar, ang gobernador sang Juda.
Ang masunod amo ang mga Israelinhon sa probinsya sang Juda nga ginbihag sadto ni Haring Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia. Karon naghalin na sila sa Babilonia kag nagbalik sa Jerusalem kag sa iban pa nila nga mga banwa sa Juda.
Ater (nga ginatawag man nga Hezekia)
Amo ini ang lista sang katawhan sang Israel nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag :
Kiriat Jearim, Kefira, kag Beerot
Rama kag Geba
Betel kag Ai
Lod, Hadid, kag Ono
Jedaya (halin sa pamilya ni Jeshua)
Mga kaliwat ni Jeshua kag Kadmiel (halin sa pamilya ni Hodavia)
Mga manugkanta sa templo nga mga kaliwat ni Asaf
Mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan nga mga kaliwat nila ni Shalum, Ater, Talmon, Akub, Hatita, kag Shobai
Ziha, Hasufa, Tabaot,
Keros, Siaha, Padon,
Lebana, Hagaba, Akub,
Hagab, Shalmai, Hanan,
Gidel, Gahar, Reaya,
Rezin, Nekoda, Gazam,
Uza, Pasea, Besai,
Asna, Meunim, Nefusim,
Bakbuk, Hakufa, Harhur,
Bazlut, Mehida, Harsha,
Barkos, Sisera, Tema,
Nezia, kag Hatifa.
Sotai, Hasoferet, Peruda,
Jaala, Darkon, Gidel,
Hazebaim, kag Ami.
Ang kadamuon nila nga mga kaliwat sang mga kaliwat sang mga suluguon sa templo kag mga kaliwat sang mga suluguon ni Solomon 392.
Ginsilingan sila sang gobernador sang Juda sang Juda nga indi sila puwede magkaon sang mga pagkaon nga ginhalad sa Dios hasta nga may ara sang pari nga makapamangkot sa Dios parte sa ila pagkapari paagi sa Dios parte sa ila pagkapari paagi sa Urim kag Thumim.
Ang kabilugan sang mga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag 42,360,
wala labot sa mga suluguon nila nga 7,337, kag mga manugkanta nga mga 200, nga mga lalaki kag babayi.
May dala sila nga 736 ka kabayo, 245 ka mula,
435 ka camel, kag 6,720 ka donkey.
Sang pag-abot nila sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem, ang iban nga mga pangulo sang mga pamilya naghatag sing kinabubut-on nga bulig sa pagpatindog liwat sang templo sa ginpatindugan man sini anay.
Naghatag sila suno sa ila masarangan para sa sini nga buluhaton. Kag ang kabilugan nga ila natipon mga 500 ka kilo nga bulawan, mga 3,000 ka kilo nga pilak, kag 100 ka panid nga bayo para sa mga pari.
Ang tagsa sa ila nagbalik sa mga banwa nga sa diin naghalin ang ila mga pamilya, pati ang mga pari, ang mga Levita, ang mga manugkanta, ang mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo , kag ang mga suluguon sa templo.
Sang pag-abot sang ikapito nga bulan, sang nagaestar na ang mga Israelinhon sa ila mga banwa, nagtipon sila tanan sa Jerusalem nga may pag-isa.
Sang natapos na sang mga manug-obra ang pundasyon sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagplastar ang mga pari sa pagpatunog sang mga trumpeta. Ini sila nakasuksok sang ila mga bayo bilang mga pari. Nagplastar man ang mga Levita, nga mga kaliwat ni Asaf, sa pagtukar sang mga cymbals para dayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo suno sa pamaagi nga gintudlo sadto ni Haring David sang Israel.
Dayon nagsinggit sing mabaskog ang tanan nga tawo sa pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay natapos na ang pundasyon sang templo.
Madamo didto sang mga tigulang nga mga pari, mga Levita, kag mga pangulo sang mga pamilya nga nakakita sadto sang una nga templo. Ini sila naghibi sing tudo sang makita nila ang pundasyon sang bag-o nga templo. Pero madamo nga tawo didto ang nagsinggit sa kalipay.
Indi na mahibaluan ang singgit sang kalipay kag ang singgit sang paghibi tungod kay puwerte gid katudo ang ginahod sang mga tawo, kag mabatian ini sa malayo.
Dayon ginpatindog liwat ang halaran sang Dios sang Israel para mahalaran ini sang mga halad nga ginasunog, suno sa nakasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises nga iya alagad. Ang nagpatindog sini amo sila ni Jeshua nga anak ni Jozadak kag ang iya kapareho nga mga pari, kag si Zerubabel nga anak ni Shealtiel kag ang iya mga paryente.
Ginsaulog man nila ang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag suno sa nakasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises sa Kasuguan ni Moises . Kag naghalad sila sang mga halad nga ginasunog, nga ginakinahanglan nga ihalad sa kada adlaw sang sini nga piesta sang sini nga piesta .
Wala labot sa mga halad nga ginasunog nga ginahalad nila aga kag hapon, naghalad man sila sang mga halad sa kada Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan kag sa iban pa nga natalana nga mga piesta sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kag naghalad man sila sing mga halad nga kinabubut-on para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Bisan wala pa naumpisahan ang pagpatindog liwat sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , nagsugod na ang mga Israelinhon sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog sang nahauna nga adlaw sang ikapito nga bulan sang sadto nga tuig sang sadto nga tuig .
Naghatag ang mga Israelinhon sang kuwarta nga ibayad sa mga manugbasbas sang bato kag sa mga panday. Naghatag man sila sang mga pagkaon, ilimnon, kag lana nga ibayad sa mga taga-Sidon kag taga-Tyre para sa mga kahoy nga sedro nga halin sa Lebanon. Ini nga mga kahoy ikarga sa mga barko kag dal-on sa Jopa. Gintugutan ini ni Haring Cyrus sang Persia.
Gin-umpisahan ang pagpatindog sang templo sang ikaduha nga bulan sang ikaduha nga tuig halin sang nakabalik ang mga Israelinhon sa Jerusalem. Nagbuylog sa pag-obra ang tanan nga nakabalik sa Jerusalem halin sa pagkabihag, lakip na diri sila ni Zerubabel nga anak ni Shealtiel, Jeshua nga anak ni Jozadak kag ang iya kapareho nga mga pari, kag ang mga Levita. Ang gintugyanan sa pagdumala sa pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang mga Levita nga nagaedad 20 ka tuig paibabaw.
Sila amo si Jeshua,
Nabalitaan sang mga kaaway sang mga taga-Juda kag taga-Benjamin nga ginapatindog liwat sang mga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
“Mahal nga Hari, gusto namon nga mahibaluan mo nga ginapatindog liwat sang mga Judio ang siyudad sang Jerusalem, nga ang mga pumuluyo sini permi malain kag rebelde. Ini sila nag-abot sa sini nga siyudad halin sa mga lugar nga sakop mo. Ginakay-o na gani nila ang mga pader pati ang mga pundasyon sini.
Mahal nga Hari, kon mapatindog liwat ang ini nga siyudad kag makay-o na ang mga pader sini, magarebelde ang mga pumuluyo sini kag magarebelde ang mga pumuluyo sini kag indi na sila magbayad sang mga buhis kag sang iban pa nga mga balayran. Gani magagamay na ang kita sang ginharian.
“Tungod nga may katungdanan kami sa imo, Mahal nga Hari, kag indi namon gusto nga mahuy-an ka, ginapahibalo namon ini sa imo
para usisaon mo ang mga kasulatan nga gintago sang imo mga katigulangan. Kag sa sini, mahibaluan mo nga ang mga pumuluyo sang siyudad sang Jerusalem rebelde halin sang una. Amo gani nga ginlaglag ang ini nga siyudad tungod kay nangin problema ini sa mga hari kag sa mga lugar nga luyag magsakop sini.
Ginapahibalo lang namon sa imo, Mahal nga Hari, nga kon mapatindog liwat ang ini nga siyudad kag makay-o na ang mga pader sini, madula sa imo ang probinsya nga ara sa west sang Euphrates.”
“Kabay pa nga maayo ang inyo kahimtangan.
“Ang sulat nga inyo ginpadala ginbadbad sa amon lingguahe samtang ginabasa sa akon.
Nagmando ako nga usisaon ang mga kasulatan, kag napamatud-an matuod nga halin sang una ang mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem nagakontra sa mga hari. Kinaandan na nga ginahimo sang sina nga lugar ang pagrebelde kontra sa gobyerno.
Gani nagkadto sila kay Zerubabel kag sa mga pangulo sang mga pamilya, kag nagsiling, “Buligan namon kamo sa pagpatindog sang templo tungod kay ginasimba man namon ang inyo Dios pareho sang ginahimo ninyo. Dugay na kami nga nagahalad sang mga halad sa iya, halin pa sang panahon ni Haring Esarhadon sang Assyria nga amo ang nagdala sa amon diri.”
Nahibaluan ko man paagi sa mga kasulatan nga Nahibaluan ko man paagi sa mga kasulatan nga gindumalahan ang Jerusalem sang gamhanan nga mga hari nga naghari sa bilog nga probinsya sa west sang Euphrates kag nagpabayad sa ila sang buhis kag sang iban pa nga mga balayran.
“Karon, magmando kamo nga untaton na sang sina nga mga tawo ang pagpatindog liwat sang siyudad hasta nga wala pa ako magmando nga patindugon ina.
Himua ninyo ini gilayon para indi mahalitan ang akon ginharian.”
Pagkatapos nga ginbasa sa ila ni Rehum, Shimshai, kag sa ila mga kaupod ang sulat ni Haring Artaserkses, nagkadto sila gilayon sa Jerusalem kag ginpilit ang mga Judio nga mag-untat sa pagpatindog liwat sang siyudad.
Nauntat ang pagpatindog sang templo sang Dios sa Jerusalem hasta sa ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Darius sa Persia.
Pero amo ini ang sabat nila ni Zerubabel, Jeshua, kag sang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya: “Ginsugo kami ni Haring Cyrus sang Persia nga patindugon liwat ang templo. Pero wala kamo sing labot sa pagpatindog sini para sa amon Dios. Kami lang ang magapatindog sini para sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.”
Gani ginpahadlok kag ginpaluya sang mga tawo nga nagaestar na nga daan sa sina nga lugar
Ginsuhulan nila ang mga opisyal sang gobyerno sang Persia para kontrahon ang mga plano sang katawhan sang Juda. Padayon nila nga ginahimo ini halin sang panahon nga si Cyrus ang hari sang Persia hasta sang panahon nga si Darius na ang hari sang Persia.
Sang pagsugod sang paghari ni Ahasuerus, ang mga kaaway sang mga pumuluyo sang Juda kag Jerusalem nagsulat sang mga akusasyon kontra sa ila.
Kag bisan sang si Artaserkses na ang hari sang Persia, nagsulat man sila sa iya. Sila amo si Bishlam, Mitredat, Tabeel, kag ang iban pa nila nga mga kaupod. Ginsulat nila ini sa lingguahe nga Aramico kag ginbadbad ini sa lingguahe sang taga-Persia sa lingguahe sang taga-Persia .
Karon, ginsugo sang Dios sang Israel ang mga propeta nga si Haggai kag si Zacarias nga apo ni Iddo sa pagsugid sang iya mensahi sa mga Judio sa Juda kag Jerusalem.
Kag ginpamangkot man namon ang ila mga ngalan para mapahibalo namon sa imo kon sin-o ang mga nagapangulo sa pagpatindog sang templo.
“Amo ini ang ila sabat sa amon: ‘Mga alagad kami sang Dios sang langit kag sang kalibutan, kag ginapatindog liwat namon ang templo nga ginpatindog sang una sang isa ka gamhanan nga hari sang Israel.
Pero tungod kay ginpaakig sang amon mga katigulangan ang Dios sang langit, ginpabay-an niya sila nga sakupon ni Nebucadnezar nga Kaldeanhon,
Pero sang nahauna nga tuig sang paghari ni Cyrus sa Babilonia, nagmando siya nga patindugon liwat ang templo sang Dios.
Gin-uli man niya ang mga bulawan kag pilak nga mga kagamitan sang templo sang Dios. Ini nga mga kagamitan ginkuha anay ni Nebucadnezar sa templo sa Jerusalem kag ginbutang sa templo sa Babilonia. Gintugyan ni Haring Cyrus ini nga mga kagamitan kay Sheshbazar nga ginpili niya nga gobernador sang Juda sang Juda .
Nagsiling ang hari kay Sheshbazar nga patindugon liwat ang templo sang Dios sa Jerusalem sa ginpatindugan man sini anay, kag ibutang didto ang mga kagamitan sini.
Gani nagkadto si Sheshbazar sa Jerusalem kag ginpatukod niya ang mga pundasyon sang templo sang Dios. Hasta subong ginapatindog pa ang templo; wala pa ini matapos.’
“Karon, kon mahimo, Mahal nga Hari, ipausisa ang mga kasulatan nga ginpatago sang mga hari sang Babilonia kon matuod gid bala nga nagmando si Haring Cyrus nga patindugon liwat ang templo sang Dios sa Jerusalem. Kag dayon pahibalua kami kon ano ang imo desisyon parte sini.”
Nagpamati sa ila si Zerubabel nga anak ni Shealtiel kag si Jeshua nga anak ni Jozadak. Gani ginpadayon nila ang pagpatindog sang templo sang Dios sa Jerusalem. Ginsuportaran gid sila sang sadtong duha ka propeta sang Dios.
Pero sa wala magdugay, nag-abot sa Jerusalem si Tatenai nga gobernador sang probinsya sa probinsya sa west sang Euphrates, si Shetar Bozenai, kag ang ila mga kaupod. Nagpamangkot sila
Nagpamangkot pa gid sila, “Sin-o ang mga ngalan sang mga tawo nga nagaobra sini?”
“Ginapahibalo ka namon, Mahal nga Hari, nga nagkadto kami sa probinsya sang Juda, didto sa ginapatindugan sang templo sang gamhanan nga Dios. Dalagko nga mga bato ang ginagamit sa pagpatindog sang templo, kag ang mga pader sini ginbutangan sang mga troso. Mapisan sila sa ila nga pag-obra, gani madasig ang pagpatindog sini.
Ginpamangkot namon ang ila mga pangulo kon sin-o ang nagsugo sa ila sa pagpatindog liwat sang templo.
Gani nagmando si Haring Darius sa pag-usisa sang mga kasulatan nga gintago sa talaguan sini sa Babilonia.
para makahalad sila sang mga halad nga makapalipay sa Dios sang langit, kag makapangamuyo sila para sa akon kag sa akon mga anak.
“Nagamando pa gid ako nga ang bisan sin-o nga indi magtuman sini tuhugon sang kahoy nga ginhukas sa iya nga balay, kag ang iya balay gub-on hasta nga wala sing parte nga magkalabilin nga nagatindog.
“Ako, si Darius, ang nagmando sini. Dapat tumanon gid ini.”
Gintuman gid nila ni Tatenai nga gobernador, Shetar Bozenai, kag sang ila mga kaupod ang mando ni Haring Darius.
Gani padayon nga nag-obra ang mga pangulo sang mga Judio samtang ginapabakod sila sang mga mensahi sang mga propeta nga sila ni Haggai kag Zacarias nga apo ni Iddo. Natapos nila obra ang templo suno sa sugo sang Dios sang Israel nga ginpatuman ni Cyrus, Darius, kag Artaserkses, nga magsunod nga mga nga magsunod nga mga hari sang Persia.
Nahuman ang templo sang ikatatlo nga adlaw sang ikadose nga bulan, nga amo ang ikadose nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Adar, sadtong ikaanom nga tuig sang paghari ni Darius.
Malipayon nga nagsaulog sa pagdedikar sang templo sang Dios ang katawhan sang Israel—ang mga pari, mga Levita, kag ang iban pa nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag.
Sa sining pagdedikar sang templo sang Dios, naghalad sila sang 100 ka turo nga baka, 200 ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 400 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki. Naghalad man sila sang dose ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo sang tagsa ka tribo sang Israel.
Ginbutang nila ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita sa ila tagsa ka katungdanan sa templo sa Jerusalem suno sa nasulat sa Libro ni Moises.
Sang ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, sang masunod nga tuig, sang masunod nga tuig, ginsaulog sang mga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Pero didto nakita sa palasyo sa Ecbatana, nga sakop sang probinsya sang Media, ang isa ka linukot nga kasulatan nga may nakasulat nga:
Nagpakatinlo ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita para mangin takos sila sa ila nga pagpanguna sa mga seremonya. Dayon gin-ihaw sang mga Levita ang mga karnero nga halad sa pagsaulog sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Ginhimo nila ini Ginhimo nila ini para sa tanan nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag, para sa mga pari nga ila mga paryente, kag para sa ila kaugalingon.
Ini nga mga halad ginkaon sang tanan nga Israelinhon nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag kag pati man sang iban nga mga tawo nga nagaestar didto nga nagbiya na sa mga ginahimo sang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios. Nagbiya sila sa sini nga mga butang Nagbiya sila sa sini nga mga butang para simbahon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel.
Sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw ginsaulog nila sing malipayon ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok. Kay ginhatagan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kalipay paagi sa pagtandog niya sang tagipusuon sang hari sang Assyria
“Ang ini nga kasulatan nagapahanumdom nga sang nahauna nga tuig sang paghari ni Cyrus, nagmando siya nga patindugon liwat ang templo sang Dios sa Jerusalem nga sa diin ihalad ang mga halad. Dapat nga mabakod ang pundasyon sini. Kag dapat 90 feet ang iya kataason kag 90 feet man ang iya kasangkaron.
Ang kada tatlo ka dalagko nga mga bato sini nga nagasampaw, sampawan sang isa ka troso. Ang tanan nga gastos kuhaon sa kuwarta sang ginharian.
Kag ang bulawan kag pilak nga mga kagamitan sa templo sang Dios nga gindala ni Haring Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia dapat ibalik sa bulutangan sini sa templo sa Jerusalem.”
“Palayo kamo dira sa templo sang Dios.
Indi ninyo paghilabti ang pagpatindog sini. Pabay-i lang ninyo ang gobernador kag ang iban pa nga mga pangulo sang mga Judio sa pagpatindog sini sa ginpatindugan man sini anay.
“Nagamando man ako nga buligan ninyo ang mga pangulo sang mga Judio paagi sa pagbayad gilayon sang tanan nga gastos para indi maatrasar ang pag-obra. Ang bayad kuhaon ninyo sa kuwarta sang ginharian nga naghalin sa mga buhis sa inyo probinsya.
Dapat hatagan ninyo adlaw-adlaw ang mga pari sa Jerusalem sang ila kinahanglanon pareho sang bataon nga baka kag mga gulang kag bataon nga mga karnero nga lalaki nga pagasunugon bilang halad sa Dios sang langit,
Ginbuligan siya sang Dios Ginbuligan siya sang Dios tungod kay nagdedikar siya sa pagtuon kag sa pagtuman sang Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag sa pagtudlo sang mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo sini sa mga Israelinhon.
Amo ini ang sulat nga ginhatag ni Haring Artaserkses kay Ezra nga pari kag manunudlo, nga nakahibalo gid sing maayo sang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga taga-Israel:
“Ako si Haring Artaserkses nga labaw sa tanan nga hari. Nagapangamusta ako sa imo, Ezra, nga pari kag manunudlo sang Kasuguan sang Dios sang langit.
“Nagamando ako nga ang bisan sin-o sa mga Israelinhon diri sa akon ginharian, pati mga pari kag mga Levita, nga gusto mag-upod sa imo sa pagbalik sa Jerusalem puwede makaupod.
Ginasugo ko ikaw kag sang akon pito ka manuglaygay nga usisaon mo ang mga nagakalatabo sa Juda kag Jerusalem kon bala ginasunod nila ang Kasuguan sang imo Dios, nga imo nahibaluan sing maayo.
Ginasugo ko man ikaw nga Ginasugo ko man ikaw nga dal-on mo ang mga bulawan kag mga pilak nga ginahatag ko kag sang akon mga manuglaygay sing kinabubut-on sa Dios sang Israel nga nagapuyo sa Jerusalem.
Dal-on mo man ang tanan nga pilak kag bulawan nga mabaton mo halin sa probinsya sang Babilonia, pati man ang kinabubut-on nga bulig sang katawhan sang Israel sang Israel kag sang ila mga pari para sa templo sang ila Dios sa Jerusalem.
Siguraduhon mo nga ang ini nga kuwarta gamiton sa pagbakal sang turo nga mga baka, gulang kag bataon nga mga karnero nga lalaki, mga uyas, kag bino, nga ihalad sa halaran sang templo sang inyo Dios sa Jerusalem.
Ang mabilin nga bulawan kag pilak puwede ninyo gamiton sang imo mga kasimanwa sa bisan ano nga gusto ninyo suno sa kabubut-on sang inyo Dios.
Pero ang mga kagamitan nga gintugyan sa imo nga gamiton sa pag-alagad sa templo sang imo Dios ihatag mo tanan sa Dios sang Jerusalem.
Kon may iban ka pa nga kinahanglan para sa templo, magkuha ka lang sang panggastos sa kuwarta sang ginharian.
“Ako, si Haring Artaserkses, nagmando sa tanan nga tresurero sang probinsya sa probinsya sa west sang Euphrates nga ihatag gid ninyo ang bisan ano nga pangayuon sa inyo ni Ezra nga pari kag manunudlo sang Kasuguan sang Dios sang langit.
Hatagi ninyo siya hasta sa 3,500 ka kilo nga pilak, 300 ka sako nga trigo, 550 ka galon nga bino, 550 ka galon nga lana sang olibo, kag bisan ano kadamo nga asin nga kinahanglanon.
Ihatag gid ninyo ang tanan nga kinahanglanon sa templo suno sa ginmando sang Dios sang langit. Kay kon indi, mangakig siya sa akon ginharian kag sa akon mga anak.
Ginapahibalo man namon kamo nga indi ninyo pagpabayaron sang buhis kag sang iban pa nga balayran ang mga pari, mga Levita, mga musikero, mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo , mga suluguon sa templo, kag iban pa nga nagatrabaho sa sini nga templo sang Dios.
“Kag ikaw, Ezra, suno sa kaalam nga ginhatag sang Dios sa imo, magpili ka sang mga hukom kag mga opisyal nga magdumala sa tanan nga tawo sa probinsya sa probinsya sa west sang Euphrates. Dapat nakahibalo sila sang Kasuguan sang imo Dios. Kag ang mga tawo nga wala nakahibalo sang Kasuguan tudluan mo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga indi magtuman sa Kasuguan sang imo Dios ukon sa kasuguan sang hari pagasilutan gid sang kamatayon, ukon palayason sa iya lugar, ukon kuhaon ang iya pagkabutang, ukon prisohon.”
Nagsiling si Ezra: Nagsiling si Ezra: Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang aton mga katigulangan, nga nagtandog sa tagipusuon sang hari nga padunggan niya ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem.
Tungod sa kaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, maayo ang pagtratar sa akon sang hari kag sang iya mga manuglaygay, kag pati sang tanan niya nga gamhanan nga mga opisyal. Kag tungod nga ginabuligan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, naangkon ko ang kaisog sa pagtipon sang mga pangulo sang Israel sa pag-upod sa akon sa Jerusalem.
May nag-upod man sa iya nga mga Israelinhon sang pagbalik niya sa Jerusalem sadtong ikapito nga tuig sang paghari ni Artaserkses. Lakip sa mga nag-upod amo ang mga pari, mga Levita, mga manugkanta, mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo , kag mga suluguon sa templo.
Nagsiling si Ezra: Nagsiling si Ezra: Amo ini ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya nga nag-upod sa akon sa Jerusalem halin sa Babilonia, sadtong paghari ni Artaserkses:
si Shelomit nga anak ni Josifia kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 160 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Bani;
si Zacarias nga anak ni Bebai kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 28 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Bebai;
si Johanan nga anak ni Hakatan kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 110 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Azgad;
si Elifelet, si Jeuel, kag si Shemaya kag ang mga kaupod nila nga 60 ka lalaki, nga amo ang nabilin sa Babilonia sa Babilonia halin sa pamilya ni Adonikam;
si Utai kag si Zacur kag ang mga kaupod nila nga 70 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Bigvai.
Gintipon ko ang maupod sa akon sa Jerusalem didto sa suba nga nagailig pakadto sa lugar sang lugar sang Ahava. Nagkampo kami didto sing tatlo ka adlaw. Sang gintan-aw ko ang lista sang mga tawo nga maupod sa akon, pati na ang mga pari, nasapwan ko nga wala didto sing mga Levita.
Gani ginpatawag ko ang mga pangulo sang grupo nga sila ni Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaya, Elnatan, Jarib, Elnatan, Natan, Zacarias, kag Meshulam, kag ang duha ka maalam nga tawo nga si Joyarib kag si Elnatan.
Ginpakadto ko sila kay Iddo nga pangulo sang lugar sang lugar sang Casifia para pangabayon siya kag ang iya mga paryente nga mga suluguon sa templo nga magpadala sila sang mga tawo nga mag-alagad sa templo sang Dios.
Tungod nga ginabuligan kami sang Dios, ginpadala nila sa amon si Sherebia, kaupod ang iya mga anak kag mga utod nga lalaki nga 18 ka bilog. Si Sherebia maabilidad nga tawo kag kaliwat siya ni Mali nga kaliwat ni Levi. Si Levi anak ni Israel.
Ginpadala man nila si Hashabia kag ang iya mga utod kag mga hinablos nga mga lalaki nga 20 ka bilog, kaupod si Jeshaya nga halin sa pamilya ni Merari.
Ginpadala pa gid nila ang 220 ka suluguon sa templo. Ang mga suluguon sa templo ginpili sadto ni Haring David kag sang iya mga opisyal nga magbulig sa mga Levita. Nakalista tanan ang ila mga ngalan.
Didto sa kilid sang Suba sang Ahava, nagsiling ako sa grupo nga magpuasa kami kag magpaubos sang amon kaugalingon sa presensya sang amon Dios para pangabayon siya nga bantayan niya kami sa amon pagpanglakaton, pati ang amon mga kabataan kag mga pagkabutang.
Kay nahuya ako magpangayo sa hari sang mga soldado kag mga manugkabayo nga magbantay sa amon kontra sa mga kaaway samtang nagapanglakaton kami, tungod kay nagsiling na kami sa hari nga ginabuligan sang amon Dios ang tanan nga nagasalig sa iya, pero akig gid ang Dios sa mga nagasikway sa iya.
Gani nagpuasa kag nagpangamuyo kami sa amon Dios nga bantayan niya kami, kag ginsabat niya ang amon pangamuyo.
Nagpili ako sang dose ka tawo halin sa mga nagapangulo nga mga pari, wala labot kay Sherebia, Hashabia, kag sa napulo ka paryente nila.
Pagkatapos gintugyan ko sa ila nga wala sing kulang
Nagsiling ako sa mga pari, “Kamo kag ang ini nga mga kagamitan gindedikar sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang pilak kag bulawan mga halad nga kinabubut-on para sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan.
Halungi ninyo ini sing maayo hasta nga madala ninyo ini sa mga bodega sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem nga wala sing kulang,
si Zacarias kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 150 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Parosh (may ara sang lista sang ila mga katigulangan);
Gani ginkuha sang mga pari kag sang mga Levita ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, kag ang mga kagamitan nga wala sing kulang, para dal-on sa templo sang amon Dios sa Jerusalem.
Naghalin kami sa Suba sang Ahava kag naglakat pakadto sa Jerusalem sadtong ikadose nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan. Ginbuligan kami sang amon Dios kag ginprotektaran niya kami kontra sa mga kaaway kag mga tulisan samtang nagapanglakaton kami.
Pag-abot namon sa Jerusalem, nagpahuway kami anay sing tatlo ka adlaw.
Sang ikaapat nga adlaw, nagkadto kami sa templo sang amon Dios kag gintugyan namon ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, kag ang mga kagamitan nga wala sing kulang kay Meremot nga pari nga anak ni Uria. Kaupod niya si Eleazar nga anak ni Finehas kag ang duha ka Levita nga si Jozabad nga anak ni Jeshua kag si Noadia nga anak ni Binui.
Gin-isip kag ginkilo ato tanan, kag ginlista.
Dayon ang tanan nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag naghalad sa Dios sang Israel sang mga halad nga ginasunog: 12 ka turo nga baka para sa bilog nga Israel, 96 ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag 77 ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki. Naghalad man sila sang 12 ka kanding nga lalaki bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo. Ini tanan mga halad nga ginasunog para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginhatag man nila sa mga gobernador kag mga opisyal sang probinsya sa probinsya sa west sang Euphrates ang dokumento nga sa diin nakasulat ang mando sang hari. Kag ini nga mga pangulo nagbulig sa katawhan sang Israel sang Israel kag sa templo sang Dios.
si Eliehoenai nga anak ni Zerahia kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 200 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Pahat Moab;
si Shecania nga anak ni Jahaziel kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 300 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Zatu;
si Ebed nga anak ni Jonatan kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 50 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Adin;
si Jeshaya nga anak ni Atalia kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 70 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Elam;
si Zebadia nga anak ni Micael kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 80 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Shefatia;
si Obadias nga anak ni Jehiel kag ang mga kaupod niya nga 218 ka lalaki, nga halin sa pamilya ni Joab;
Nagsiling pa si Ezra: Nagsiling pa si Ezra: Pagkatapos sini nga hitabo, nagkadto sa akon ang mga pangulo sang mga Judio sang mga Judio kag nagsiling, “Madamo sa katawhan sang Israel, pati na ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita, ang nagaginawi pareho sang mga katawhan sa ila palibot. Ginahimo nila ang mga makangilil-ad nga mga buluhaton sang mga Canaanhon, Hithanon, Periznon, Jebusnon, Ammonhon, Moabnon, Egyptohanon, kag Amornon.
“Pero karon nga nakasala kami, O Dios namon, ano pa ang masiling namon? Kay ginbaliwala namon ang imo mga sugo
nga ginhatag mo sa amon paagi sa imo mga alagad nga mga propeta. Nagsiling sila sa amon nga ang duta nga amon kadtuan para panag-iyahan mahigko nga duta tungod sang kalautan sang mga pumuluyo sini. Ginhigkuan nila ang bisan diin nga parte sang sini nga duta paagi sa ila makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan.
Nagsiling man ang mga propeta sa amon nga Nagsiling man ang mga propeta sa amon nga indi gid kami magpangasawa ukon magpamana sa ila, kag indi gid kami magbulig sa ila nga mag-uswag sila, para mangin mabakod kag mainuswagon kami,
Ginsilutan mo kami, O Dios namon, tungod sang amon mga sala. Pero ang silot mo sa amon indi tuman nga bayad sa sala nga nahimo namon, kag gintugutan mo pa nga may mabilin nga buhi sa amon.
Pero bisan pa sini, ginsupak liwat namon ang imo mga sugo, kag nagpangasawa kag nagpamana kami sang mga tawo nga nagahimo sang makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan. Sigurado gid nga mangakig ka sa amon kag laglagon mo kami hasta nga wala na sing may mabilin sa amon.
O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang Israel, matarong ikaw. Kay gintugutan mo nga may mabilin sa amon nga buhi hasta subong. Ginatuad namon ang amon mga sala, kay indi kami makapabilin sa imo presensya tungod sining amon mga sala.”
Nagpangasawa pa gani sila kag ang ila mga anak sang mga babayi nga halin sa sini nga mga katawhan. Gani ang katawhan nga pinili sang Dios nasimpunan sang iban nga mga katawhan. Kag ang aton aton mga pangulo kag mga opisyal amo pa ang nanguna sa paghimo sini.”
Sang mabatian ko ini, gin-gisi ko ang akon bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo ; gin-gan-it ko ang akon buhok kag burangos, kag nagpungko ako nga nagakaurungan.
Nagtipon sa akon ang mga tawo nga hinadlukan sa mensahi sang Dios sang Israel parte sa pagkadi-matutom sang ila kapareho nga mga Israelinhon nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag. Nagpungko lang ako nga nagakaurungan hasta nga nag-abot ang oras sang pangsirom nga halad.
Pag-abot sang sina nga oras, gin-untatan ko ang akon pagpangasubo. Nagluhod ako nga gisi ang akon bayo, kag nagpangamuyo nga nagabayaw sang akon mga kamot sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios.
Siling ko, “Dios ko, nahuya gid ako. Indi ako makatangla sa imo sa kahuya, tungod kay puwerte na gid ang amon mga sala; daw lapaw na ini sa amon mga ulo kag lambot na sa langit.
Halin sang panahon sang amon mga katigulangan hasta subong, puwerte ang amon sala; kag tungod sini, kami kag ang amon mga hari kag mga pari permi ginasakop sang mga hari sang iban nga mga nasyon. Ginpamatay nila ang iban sa amon, kag ang iban ginbihag, ginkawatan kag ginpakahuy-an, pareho sa nagakatabo sa amon subong.
“Kag karon, sa malip-ot nga tion, ginkaluoyan mo kami, Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios. Gintugutan mo nga may mabilin sa amon, kag ginpaestar mo kami nga may seguridad sa sining lugar nga imo ginpili. Ginhatagan mo kami sang paglaom kag ginpahaganhagan mo ang amon kahimtangan sa amon pagkaulipon.
Bisan mga ulipon kami, wala mo kami ginapabay-an sa amon pagkaulipon, kundi ginapakita mo ang imo gugma sa amon paagi sa maayo nga pagtratar sang mga hari sang Persia sa amon. Ginhimo mo ini para mahatagan mo kami sang bag-o nga kabuhi, kag para mapatindog namon liwat ang imo templo nga naguba, kag para mahatagan mo kami sang proteksyon diri diri sa Juda kag Jerusalem.
Samtang nagaluhod si Ezra didto sa atubangan sang templo sang Dios, kag nagahibi nga nagapangamuyo kag nagatuad sang mga sala sang katawhan sang Israel, sang mga sala sang katawhan sang Israel, madamo nga Israelinhon nga lalaki, babayi, kag kabataan ang nagtipon sa iya palibot. Ini sila nagahilibion man sing tudo.
Dayon nagtindog si Ezra nga pari kag nagsiling sa ila, “Nakasala kamo kay nagpangasawa kamo sang mga indi Israelinhon. Gani gindugangan pa gid ninyo ang sala sang Israel.
Karon, ituad ninyo ang inyo mga sala sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang inyo mga katigulangan, kag himua ninyo ang iya kabubut-on. Iseparar ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa mga katawhan sa palibot ninyo, kag bulagi ninyo ang inyo mga asawa nga indi Israelinhon.”
Nagsabat sing mabaskog ang bilog nga komunidad, “Husto ka gid! Himuon namon ang isiling mo.
Pero ini nga butang indi matapos sa isa ukon duha lang ka adlaw, kay madamo sa amon ang nakahimo sang sini nga sala. Tig-ululan pa subong, kag indi kami makaagwanta nga magpaulan diri sa guwa.
Ang mga opisyal na lang naton ang magpabilin diri kag mag-asikaso sini para sa bilog nga komunidad. Pakadtuon lang diri ang mga nagpangasawa sang indi Israelinhon sa natalana nga tion upod ang mga manugdumala kag mga hukom sang ila nga banwa. Himuon ta ini para makuha ang puwerte nga kaakig sang Dios sa aton tungod sa butang nga aton ginhimo.”
Wala sing iban nga nagsupak sa sini nga plano luwas lang kay Jonatan nga anak ni Asahel kag ni Jazea nga anak ni Tikva. Ginsuportaran man sila ni Meshulam kag ni Shabetai nga Levita.
Dayon nagsiling sa iya si Shecania nga anak ni Jehiel, nga kaliwat ni Elam, “Indi kami matutom sa aton Dios tungod kay nagpangasawa kami sang mga babayi nga indi Israelinhon halin sa mga katawhan sa palibot naton. Pero sa pihak sini may paglaom pa gihapon ang katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel.
si Hanani kag si Zebadia, nga halin sa pamilya ni Imer;
si Maasea, Elias, Shemaya, Jehiel, kag Uzia, nga halin sa pamilya ni Harim;
si Elioenai, Maasea, Ishmael, Netanel, Jozabad, kag Elasa, nga halin sa pamilya ni Pashur.
si Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaya (nga ginatawag man nga Kelita), Petahia, Juda, kag Eliezer.
si Shalum, Telem, kag Uri.
si Ramia, Izia, Malkia, Miamin, Eleazar, Hashabia,
si Matania, Zacarias, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremot, kag Elias, nga halin sa pamilya ni Elam;
si Elioenai, Eliashib, Matania, Jeremot, Zabad, kag Aziza, nga halin sa pamilya ni Zatu;
si Jehohanan, Hanania, Zabai, kag Atlai, nga halin sa pamilya ni Bebai;
si Meshulam, Maluc, Adaya, Jashub, Sheal, kag Jeremot, nga halin sa pamilya ni Bani;
Gani karon, sundon namon ang laygay mo kag sang iban pa nga nagatahod sa mga sugo sang aton Dios. Maghimo kami sang kasugtanan sa aton Dios nga palayason ini nga mga babayi pati ang ila mga kabataan. Tumanon namon ang ginasiling sang Kasuguan.
si Adna, Kelal, Benaya, Maasea, Matania, Bezalel, Binui, kag Manase, nga halin sa pamilya ni Pahat Moab;
si Matenai, Matata, Zabad, Elifelet, Jeremai, Manase, kag Shimei, nga halin sa pamilya ni Hashum;
Magtindog ka, kay imo responsibilidad ang pagtuytoy sa amon sa sining mga butang. Magpakabakod ka kag himua ang nagakadapat. Mabulig kami sa imo.”
si Jiel, Matitia, Zabad, Zebina, Jadai, Joel, kag Benaya, nga halin sa pamilya ni Nebo.
Ini sila tanan ang nagpangasawa sang mga babayi nga indi Israelinhon, kag ang iban sa ila may mga kabataan sa sini nga mga babayi.
Gani nagtindog si Ezra kag ginpasumpa niya ang mga nagapangulo nga mga pari, ang mga Levita, kag ang tanan nga Israelinhon, nga himuon nila ang ginsiling ni Shecania. Kag nagpanumpa sila.
Dayon naghalin si Ezra sa atubangan sang templo sang Dios kag nagkadto sa kuwarto ni Jehohanan nga anak ni Eliashib. Kag sang didto na siya, wala siya nagkaon kag nag-inom, kay nagpangasubo siya tungod sa pagkadi-matutom sang mga Israelinhon nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag.
Gani sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw nagtipon ang tanan nga katawhan sang Juda kag Benjamin, kag nagpungko sila didto sa may plasa sang templo sang Dios sa Jerusalem. Natabo ini sang ika-20 nga adlaw sang ikasiyam nga bulan. Nagapalangurog ang mga tawo tungod sa pagkaseryuso sang ila paga-meetingan kag tungod sa mabaskog nga ulan.
Sang ikasiyam nga bulan, nga amo ang ikasiyam nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Kislev, sadtong ika-20 nga tuig sang paghari ni Artaserkses sa Persia sang paghari ni Artaserkses sa Persia , didto ako sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Susa.
“Kami imo mga alagad kag katawhan nga imo ginluwas paagi sa imo puwerte nga gahom kag kusog.
Sadto nga panahon, ako ang manugserbi sang ilimnon sang hari.
Nagkadto sa akon didto ang isa sa akon mga utod nga si Hanani halin sa Juda kaupod ang pila ka lalaki. Ginpamangkot ko sila parte sa Jerusalem kag sa mga Judio nga nagbalalik halin sa pagkabihag sa Babilonia sa Babilonia .
Nagsabat sila, “Ginabudlayan gid ang mga nagbalalik sa Juda, kag ginapakahuy-an sila sang mga katawhan sa palibot nila sang mga katawhan sa palibot nila . Kag hasta subong guba ang pader sang Jerusalem kag sunog ang mga puwertahan sini.”
Pagkabati ko sadto, nagpungko ako kag naghibi. Pila ka adlaw nga nagpangasubo ako, nagpuasa, kag nagpangamuyo sa presensya sang Dios sang langit.
Siling ko, “ Ginoo Ginoo , Dios sang langit, gamhanan ka kag makatilingala nga Dios. Ginatuman mo ang imo imo kasugtanan nga may paghigugma sa mga nagahigugma sa imo kag nagatuman sang imo mga sugo.
Ako nga imo alagad nagapangamuyo adlaw-gab-i para sa katawhan sang Israel nga imo mga alagad. Pamatii ako kag sabta ang akon pangamuyo. Ginatuad
Malain gid ang amon ginhimo kontra sa imo. Wala namon gintuman ang imo mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga ginhatag mo sa amon paagi kay Moises nga imo alagad.
“Dumduma ining ginsiling mo sadto kay Moises: ‘Kon kamo nga mga Israelinhon indi magmatinumanon sa akon, laptahon ko kamo sa iban nga mga nasyon.
Pero kon magbalik kamo sa akon kag magtuman sang akon mga sugo, bisan maglapta pa kamo sa pinakamalayo nga lugar, tipunon ko kamo liwat sa lugar nga akon ginpili nga padunggan ako.’
Sang nahauna nga bulan, nga amo ang nahauna nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Nisan, sadtong ika-20 nga tuig sang paghari ni Artaserkses, nagserbi ako sang bino sa hari. Sadto lang niya ako nakita nga masubo.
Pero sang mabatian ni Sanbalat nga taga-Horon kag ni Tobia nga isa ka opisyal nga Ammonhon nga nag-abot ako sa pagbulig sa mga Israelinhon, nangakig gid sila.
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw halin sang pag-abot ko sa Jerusalem,
naglakat ako sang tungang gab-i upod sang pila ko ka kaupdanan. Wala ko ginsugid bisan kay sin-o ang nabatyagan ko nga gusto ipahimo sang Dios sa akon parte sa Jerusalem. Wala ako sing iban nga sapat nga dala luwas lang gid sa donkey nga akon ginasakyan.
Nagguwa ako sa Puwertahan nga Nagaatubang sa Pulopatag kag nagkadto sa Bubon sang Dragon
Nagpadayon ako sa Puwertahan nga Pakadto sa Tuburan hasta sa palaligusan sang hari, pero indi didto makaagi ang akon donkey.
Gani nagtaklad na lang ako sa Kidron nga Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig, kag sige ang akon tan-aw sang mga pader sadto nga gab-i. Pagkatapos nagbalik ako kag didto liwat nag-agi sa Puwertahan nga Nagaatubang sa Pulopatag.
Wala nakahibalo ang mga opisyal sang siyudad sang siyudad kon diin ako naghalin kag kon ano ang akon ginhimo. Kay wala pa gid ako sing may ginsugiran nga Judio parte sa akon plano, bisan ang mga pari, mga pangulo, mga opisyal, kag ang iban pa nga ara sa administrasyon.
Pero karon nagsiling ako sa ila, “Nakita ninyo ang makaluluoy nga kahimtangan sang aton siyudad. Guba ang Jerusalem kag sunog ang iya mga puwertahan. Patindugon ta liwat ang mga pader sang Jerusalem para indi na kita mahuy-an.”
Ginsilingan ko man sila kon daw ano kaayo sang Dios sa akon kag kon ano ang ginsiling sang hari sa akon. Nagsabat sila, “Sige, patindugon ta liwat ang mga pader.” Gani nagpreparar sila para umpisahan ining maayo nga buluhaton.
Pero sang mabalitaan ini ni Sanbalat nga taga-Horon, ni Tobia nga isa ka opisyal nga Ammonhon, kag ni Geshem nga Arabo, ginyaguta nila kami kag ginkadlawan. Nagsiling sila, “Ano inang inyo ginahimo? Nagaplano bala kamo sa pagrebelde sa hari?”
Gani ginpamangkot niya ako, “Ngaa masinulub-on ka nga wala ka man sing sakit? Siguro may problema ka.” Kinulbaan gid ako,
Ginsabat ko sila, “Magmadinalag-on kami paagi sa bulig sang Dios sang langit. Kami nga iya mga alagad magaumpisa sa pagpatindog sang mga pader sang Jerusalem sang mga pader sang Jerusalem . Pero kamo wala gid sing labot ukon kinamatarong sa Jerusalem, kag wala man kamo sing parte sa iya kasaysayan.”
pero nagsabat ako sa hari, “Kabay pa nga magkabuhi ka sing malawig, Mahal nga Hari. Masinulub-on ako tungod kay ang siyudad nga ginlubngan sang akon mga katigulangan guba kag ang mga puwertahan sini sunog.”
Nagpamangkot ang hari, “Ti, ano ang imo gusto?” Nagpangamuyo ako sa Dios sang langit,
kag pagkatapos nagsabat ako sa hari, “Kon puwede, Mahal nga Hari, kag kon nalipay ka sa akon, gusto ko kuntani nga magpuli sa Juda, para patindugon liwat ang siyudad nga sa diin ginlubong ang akon mga katigulangan.”
Nagpamangkot sa akon ang hari samtang ang rayna nagapungko sa iya tupad, “Ano ka kadugay didto, kag san-o ka mabalik?” Nagsiling ako kon san-o ako mabalik, kag ginsugtan niya ako.
Nagpangabay man ako sa hari, “Kon puwede, Mahal nga Hari, hatagi ako sang mga sulat para sa mga gobernador sang probinsya sa west sang Euphrates, para tugutan nila ako nga mag-agi sa ila teritoryo sa akon nga pagpuli sa Juda.
Kag kon mahimo hatagi man ako sang sulat para kay Asaf, ang nagabantay sang imo kakahuyan, para hatagan niya ako sang mga kahoy nga gamiton sa paghimo sang puwertahan sang mabakod nga kuta sa tupad sang templo, kag sa pagpatindog sang pader sang siyudad kag sang balay nga akon pagaestaran.” Gintuman sang hari ang akon mga ginpangabay sa iya tungod sa kaayo sang Dios sa akon.
Sang paghalin ko, ginpaupdan pa ako sang hari sang mga opisyal sang mga soldado kag sang mga manugkabayo. Kag pag-abot ko sa west sang Euphrates, ginhatag ko sa mga gobernador ang sulat sang hari.
Ang nagpatindog sang Puwertahan sang mga Karnero amo sila ni Eliashib nga pangulo nga pari kag ang iya kaupod nga mga pari. Pagkatapos nila takod sang mga sira, gindedikar nila ini sa Dios sa Dios . Ginpatindog man nila kag gindedikar ang mga pader hasta sa Tore sang Isa ka Gatos
Ang sunod sa iya amo si Jedaya nga anak ni Harumaf. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader malapit sa iya balay. Ang sunod sa iya amo si Hatush nga anak ni Hashabnea.
Ang nagpatindog sang sunod pa gid nga parte sang pader kag sang tore nga may mga hurno amo sila ni Malkia nga anak ni Harim kag Hashub nga anak ni Pahat Moab.
Ang sunod sa ila amo ang anak ni Halohesh nga si Shalum, nga pangulo sang katunga nga distrito sang Jerusalem. Ginbuligan siya sang iya mga anak nga babayi.
Ang nagpatindog sang Puwertahan nga Nagaatubang sa Pulopatag amo si Hanun kag ang mga taga-Zanoa. Gintakod nila ang mga sira sini, kag ginhimuan sang mga trangka. Ginpatindog man nila ang 1,500 feet nga pader hasta sa Puwertahan sang Ginahabuyan sang Basura.
Ang nagpatindog sang Puwertahan sang Ginahabuyan sang Basura amo ang anak ni Recab nga si Malkia, nga pangulo sang distrito sang Bet Hakerem. Gintakod niya ang mga sira sini, kag ginhimuan sang mga trangka.
Ang nagpatindog sang Puwertahan nga Pakadto sa Tuburan amo ang anak ni Col Hoze nga si Shalum, nga pangulo sang distrito sang Mizpa. Gin-atupan niya ini, gintakod ang mga sira, kag ginhimuan sang mga trangka. Ginpatindog man niya ang pader sang palaligusan sa Siloam, malapit sa hardin sang hari, hasta sa hagdanan nga nagapadulhog halin sa Banwa ni David.
Ang sunod sa iya amo ang anak ni Azbuk nga si Nehemias, nga pangulo sang katunga nga distrito sang Bet Zur. Ginpatindog niya ang pader nga nagaatubang sa lulubngan
Ang nagpatindog sang sunod nga parte sang pader amo ang mga Levita nga ginapanguluhan ni Rehum nga anak ni Bani. Ang sunod sa iya amo si Hashabia nga pangulo sang katunga nga distrito sang Keila.
Ang sunod sa iya amo ang iya mga kasimanwa nga ginapanguluhan sang anak ni Henadad nga si Binui,
Ang sunod amo ang anak ni Jeshua nga si Ezer nga pangulo sang Mizpa. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader nga nagaatubang sa talaguan sang mga armas hasta sa corner sang pader.
Ang nagpatindog sang sunod nga parte sang pader amo ang mga taga-Jerico, kag sunod sa ila amo si Zacur nga anak ni Imri.
Ang sunod pa gid amo si Baruc nga anak ni Zabai. Ginpatindog niya nga may kapisan ang parte sang pader halin sa corner sang pader hasta sa puwertahan dampi sang balay ni Eliashib nga pangulo nga pari.
Ang sunod sa iya amo si Meremot nga anak ni Uria kag apo ni Hakoz. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader halin sa puwertahan dampi sang balay ni Eliashib hasta sa kilid sang sini nga balay.
Ang sunod nga nagpatindog sang parte sang pader amo ang mga pari sa palibot sang Jerusalem.
Ang sunod sa ila amo si Benjamin kag Hashub. Ginpatindog nila ang parte sang pader nga nagaatubang sa ila mga balay. Ang sunod sa ila amo si Azaria nga anak ni Maasea kag apo ni Anania. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader sa kilid sang iya balay.
Ang sunod amo si Binui nga anak ni Henadad. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader halin sa balay ni Azaria hasta sa corner sang pader. Ikaduha na ini nga parte sang pader nga iya ginpatindog nga iya ginpatindog .
Ang sunod pa gid amo si Palal nga anak ni Uzai. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader halin sa corner sang pader kag sang tore nga nagalabaw sa palasyo, malapit sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya. Ang sunod sa iya amo si Pedaya nga anak ni Parosh,
kag ang mga suluguon sa templo nga nagaestar sa may bulobukid sang bulobukid sang Ofel. Ginpatindog nila ang parte sang pader pa-east, hasta sa Puwertahan nga Pakadto sa Tubig kag sa nagalabaw nga tore.
Ang sunod sa ila amo ang mga taga-Tekoa. Ginpatindog nila ang parte sang pader halin sa nagalabaw nga tore nga dako hasta sa pader sang bulobukid sang bulobukid sang Ofel. Ikaduha na ini nga parte sang pader nga ila ginpatindog nga ila ginpatindog .
Ang nagpatindog sang parte sang pader halin sa Puwertahan sang mga Kabayo pataklad amo ang mga pari. Ginpatindog sang Ginpatindog sang kada isa sa ila ang parte nga nagaatubang sa iya balay.
Ang sunod sa ila amo si Zadok nga anak ni Imer. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader nga nagaatubang sa iya balay. Ang sunod sa iya amo ang anak ni Shecania nga si Shemaya, nga guwardya sang Puwertahan sa East.
Ang nagpatindog sang Puwertahan sang mga Isda
Ang sunod sa iya amo si Hanania nga anak ni Shelemia kag si Hanun nga ikaanom nga anak ni Zalaf. Ikaduha na ini nga parte sang pader nga ila ginpatindog nga ila ginpatindog . Ang sunod sa ila amo si Meshulam nga anak ni Berekia. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader nga nagaatubang sa iya balay.
Ang sunod pa gid amo si Malkia nga isa ka platero. Ginpatindog niya ang parte sang pader hasta sa elistaran sang mga suluguon sa templo kag sang mga negosyante, nga nagaatubang sa Puwertahan nga Tilipunan,
Ang nagpatindog sang parte sang pader halin sa sadto nga kuwarto hasta sa Puwertahan sang mga Karnero amo ang mga platero kag mga negosyante.
Ang nagpatindog sang sunod nga parte sang pader amo si Meremot nga anak ni Uria kag apo ni Hakoz. Ang sunod sa ila amo si Meshulam nga anak ni Berekia kag apo ni Meshezabel. Ang sunod pa gid amo si Zadok nga anak ni Baana.
Kag ang sunod sa iya amo ang mga taga-Tekoa. Pero ang ila mga pangulo indi magtuman sa ginapahimo sang ila mga manugdumala sa trabaho.
Ang nagpatindog sang Daan nga Puwertahan
Ang nagpatindog sang sunod nga parte sang pader amo sila ni Melatia nga taga-Gibeon, Jadon nga taga-Meronot, kag ang mga lalaki nga taga-Gibeon kag taga-Mizpa. Ini nga mga lugar sakop sang gobernador sang probinsya sa west sang Euphrates.
Ang nagpatindog sang sunod pa gid nga parte sang pader amo si Uziel nga platero, nga anak ni Harhaya. Ang sunod sa iya amo si Hanania nga manughimo sang pahamot. Ginpatindog nila ato nga parte sang pader sang Jerusalem hasta sa Malapad nga Pader.
Ang sunod sa ila amo ang anak ni Hur nga si Refaya, nga pangulo sang katunga nga distrito sang Jerusalem.
Sang mabalitaan ni Sanbalat nga ginapatindog namon liwat ang pader, nangakig gid siya kag ginyaguta niya kami nga mga Judio.
Karon, nagsiling ang mga taga-Juda, “Ginakapoy na kami sa pag-obra. Kadamo pa sang mga nagkalatiphag nga parte sang pader nga halakuton, gani indi namon ini masarangan nga tapuson.”
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagsiling ang amon mga kaaway, “Kibuton ta lang sila nga ara na kita sa ila lugar. Dayon pamatyon ta sila, kag mauntat na ang ila pag-obra.”
Ang mga Judio nga nagaestar malapit sa ila permi nagabalita sa amon sang ila plano nga pagsalakay.
Gani nagbutang ako sang mga tawo sa pagguwardya sa pinakamanubo nga mga parte sang pader nga madali lang sudlon. Ginpaguwardya ko sila didto nga nagrupo sa kada pamilya, kag may mga armas sila nga mga espada, bangkaw, kag pana.
Kag samtang ginahunahuna ko ang situasyon, ginpatawag ko ang mga pangulo, mga opisyal, kag ang mga pumuluyo, kag ginsilingan, “Indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga kaaway. Dumdumon ta lang ang makagagahom kag makatilingala nga Ginoo. Magpakig-away kita para maluwas ta ang aton mga paryente, mga anak, mga asawa, kag mga balay.”
Sang nabalitaan sang amon mga kaaway nga nahibaluan namon ang ila plano sa pagsalakay sa amon, kag nareyalisar nila nga gin-guba sang Dios ang ila plano, nagbalik kami tanan sa amon obra sa pader.
Pero halin sadto nga adlaw, katunga lang sang akon mga tinawo ang nagaobra sang pader, kay ang katunga nagaguwardya nga may mga bangkaw, taming, pana, kag panagang sa dughan. Ang mga opisyal nagatindog sa likod sang katawhan sang Juda
nga nagaobra sang pader. Samtang nagaobra sila, ang isa ka kamot nagakapot sang gamit pang-obra kag ang isa ka kamot nagabitbit sang armas,
kag nagataklos pa sila sang espada. Ang manugpatunog sang budyong ara sa akon tupad.
Nagsiling ako sa mga pangulo, mga opisyal, kag sa mga pumuluyo, “Malapad ang aton ginaobra kag nagalayuanay kita sa pader,
Sa atubangan sang iya mga kaupod kag sang mga soldado sang Samaria, nagsiling siya, “Ano bala ang ginahimo sining makaluluoy nga mga Judio? Nagahunahuna bala sila nga sa isa lang ka adlaw mapatindog nila liwat ang mga pader sang Jerusalem kag makahalad sila liwat? Abi siguro nila magamit pa nila ang mga nasunog kag nadugmok nga mga bato sang pader sang pader !”
gani kon mabatian ninyo ang tunog sang budyong, magtipon kamo diri sa akon. Ang aton Dios amo ang magpakig-away para sa aton.”
Gani padayon ang amon pag-obra halin sa kaagahon hasta magsirom, kag ang katunga sang mga tawo nagaguwardya nga armado.
Sadto nga tion, nagsiling man ako sa mga tawo nga nagaestar sa guwa sang Jerusalem nga sila kag ang ila mga suluguon magsulod sa siyudad kon gab-i para makaguwardya sila, kag pagkaaga makaobra naman sila.
Tungod nga sige ang amon bantay, Tungod nga sige ang amon bantay, ako kag ang akon mga paryente, mga tinawo, kag mga guwardya wala na nag-ilis sang amon mga bayo. Kag bisan magkadto sa tubig dala namon ang amon mga armas.
Nagsiling man si Tobia nga Ammonhon nga ara sa tupad ni Sanbalat, “Bisan fox lang ang magtaklas sa sina nga pader marumpag na ina!”
Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, “O Dios namon, pamatii kami kay ginainsulto kami. Matabo kuntani sa ila ang ila mga insulto sa amon. Kabay pa nga bihagon sila sa iban nga lugar.
Indi gid sila pagpatawara tungod kay gin-insulto
Padayon ang amon pag-obra hasta nga katunga na sang kataason sang pader ang amon napatindog, kay ang mga tawo nag-obra gid sing tudo.
Pero sang mabalitaan nila ni Sanbalat, Tobia, kag sang mga Arabo, mga Ammonhon kag mga taga-Ashdod nga padayon ang pagpatindog sang pader sang Jerusalem kag ang mga buho sini natabunan na, nangakig gid sila.
Nagplano sila tanan nga salakayon nila ang Jerusalem para gamuhon kami.
Pero nagpangamuyo kami sa amon Dios kag nagbutang sang mga guwardya adlaw-gab-i, para protektaran ang amon kaugalingon.
Karon nagreklamo ang iban nga mga lalaki kag ang ila mga asawa sa kapareho nila nga mga Judio.
Ako mismo kag ang akon mga paryente kag mga tinawo nagpahulam sang kuwarta kag pagkaon
Karon mismo ibalik ninyo ang mga uma, mga talamnan sang ubas, mga talamnan sang olibo, kag ang mga balay sang may utang sa inyo. Ibalik man ninyo ang saka sa ginpahulam ninyo nga kuwarta, uyas, duga sang ubas, kag lana.”
Dayon ginpatawag ko ang mga pari kag ginpasumpa sa ila atubangan ang mga pangulo kag mga opisyal nga tumanon nila ang ila ginpromisa.
Ang tanan nga tawo didto nagsabat, “Kabay pa,” kag gindayaw nila ang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag gintuman sang mga pangulo kag mga opisyal ang ila ginpromisa.
Sa sulod sang dose ka tuig nga nagserbisyo ako bilang gobernador sang Juda, halin sang ika-20 nga tuig hasta sang ika-32 nga tuig sang paghari ni Artaserkses, wala gid ako kag ang akon mga paryente magbaton sang pagkaon nga para sa gobernador.
Pero ang mga gobernador nga nauna sa akon nangin palas-anon sang mga tawo, tungod kay nagpangayo gid sila sang ila adlaw-adlaw nga pagkaon kag bino luwas pa sang 40 ka bilog nga pilak. Pati ang ila mga opisyal nag-abuso sa mga tawo. Pero wala ko gid ato ginhimo, tungod kay may pagtahod ako sa Dios.
Sa baylo, ginhimo ko ang tanan para mapatindog liwat ang pader sa bulig sang akon mga tinawo. Kag wala gid ako
Permi ko gani ginapakaon ang 150 ka Judio nga mga opisyal wala labot sa mga bisita halin sa palibot nga mga nasyon.
Adlaw-adlaw ako nga nagapaihaw sang isa ka baka, anom ka matambok nga mga karnero, kag madamo nga manok. Kag kada napulo ka adlaw nagapaguwa ako sang madamo nga bino nga lain-lain sang klase. Bisan amo ini ang akon mga galastuhan wala gid ako nagbaton sang pagkaon nga para sa gobernador, tungod kay nahibaluan ko nga ginabug-atan na ang mga tawo.
Nagpangamuyo ako, Nagpangamuyo ako, “O Dios ko, kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon mo ako sa tanan nga ginhimo ko para sa sini nga katawhan.”
Nagsiling sila, “Dako ang amon pamilya kag nagakinahanglan kami sang pagkaon para mabuhi.”
May iban man sa ila nga nagsiling, “Ginprenda na lang namon ang amon mga uma, mga talamnan sang ubas, kag ang amon mga balay para may makaon kami sa tion sang tiggulutom.”
May iban pa gid sa ila nga nagsiling, “Nakapanghulam kami sang kuwarta para ibayad sa hari sa buhis sang amon mga uma kag mga talamnan sang ubas.
Bisan kami kag ang amon mga anak kapareho nila nga mga Judio, kinahanglan nga ipaulipon namon sa ila ang amon mga anak para may kuwarta kami para may kuwarta kami . Sa matuod lang, ang iban namon nga mga anak nga babayi ginbaligya na namon nga ulipon. Pero wala kami sing may mahimo tungod kay ang amon mga uma kag mga talamnan sang ubas ginapanag-iyahan na sang iban.”
Sang mabatian ko ang ila mga reklamo nangakig gid ako.
Ginhunahuna ko sing maayo ang situasyon, kag dayon gin-akusar ko ang mga pangulo kag mga opisyal. Siling ko, “Ginapabudlayan ninyo ang inyo mga kasimanwa! Kay kon maghulam sila sa inyo sang kuwarta ginapasakaan ninyo.” Dayon ginpatipon ko ang mga tawo para sa isa ka meeting.
Siling ko, “Ginatinguhaan gid naton sa aton masarangan nga matubos ang aton kapareho nga mga Judio nga nagbaligya sang ila kaugalingon bilang ulipon sa mga indi Judio. Pero karon, tungod sa inyo ginahimo, nagakapilitan naman sila nga magbaligya sang ila kaugalingon. Permi na lang bala naton sila nga tubuson?” Naghipos lang sila kay wala sila sing may irason.
Nagpadayon ako sa paghambal, “Indi maayo ang inyo ginahimo. Dapat kuntani magkabuhi kamo nga may kahadlok sa Dios para indi kita pagyagutaon sang iban nga mga nasyon nga aton kaaway.
Karon nabalitaan ni Sanbalat, Tobia, Geshem nga Arabo, kag sang iban pa namon nga mga kaaway nga natapos na namon ang pagpatindog sang pader kag wala na ini sang mga buho, luwas na lang sa mga sira sini nga wala pa matakod.
Isa ka adlaw, nagkadto ako kay Shemaya nga anak ni Delaya kag apo ni Mehetabel, tungod kay indi siya makahalin sa iya balay.
Pero nagsabat ako, “Gobernador ako; ngaa malagyo ako kag magpanago sa sulod sang templo sa pagluwas sang akon kabuhi? Indi ako manago!”
Nareyalisar ko nga wala nagpakighambal ang Dios sa iya, kundi ginsuhulan lang siya ni Sanbalat kag ni Tobia nga ihambal ato sa akon.
Gusto lang nila nga pahadlukon ako kag pahimuon sang sala paagi sa pagsunod sa ginsiling ni Shemaya, para pakanubuon nila ako kag pakalainon sa mga tawo.
Gani nagpangamuyo ako, Gani nagpangamuyo ako, “O Dios ko, indi pagkalimti nga silutan nga silutan si Tobia kag si Sanbalat sa ila ginhimo nga malain nga malain , pati ang babayi nga propeta nga si Noadia kag ang iban pa nga mga propeta nga nagtinguha sa pagpahadlok sa akon.”
Natapos ang pader sang ika-25 nga adlaw sang ikaanom nga bulan, nga amo ang ikaanom nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Elul. Nahuman ini sa sulod sang 52 ka adlaw.
Sang mabalitaan ini sang amon mga kaaway sa palibot nga mga nasyon, nahadlok kag nahuy-an sila. Nareyalisar nila nga natapos ato nga obra paagi sa bulig sang Dios.
Sadto nga panahon, nagasulatay si Tobia kag ang mga pangulo sang Juda.
Madamo nga taga-Juda ang nagsumpa nga mag-unong kay Tobia tungod kay umagad siya ni Shecania nga anak ni Ara. Kag isa pa, napangasawa sang iya anak nga si Jehohanan ang anak ni Meshulam nga anak ni Berekia.
Permi lang ako ginasugiran sang mga tawo parte sa maayo nga mga binuhatan ni Tobia, kag permi man nila ginasugid sa iya ang akon ginpanghambal. Kag padayon nga nagasulat si Tobia sa akon sa pagpahadlok sa akon.
Pero nahibaluan ko nga may plano sila nga malain sa akon.
Gani nagpadala ako sang mga mensahero sa pagsiling sa ila nga, “Importante ang akon ginaobra subong, gani indi ako makakadto dira. Indi ko mahimo nga untatan ang pag-obra para lang magkadto dira.”
Apat ka beses nila ako ginpadal-an sang amo gihapon nga mensahi kag apat ka beses ko man sila nga ginpadal-an sang amo gihapon nga sabat.
Sa ikalima nga beses ginpakadto ni Sanbalat sa akon ang iya suluguon nga may dala nga sulat nga abri na.
Kag amo ini ang nakasulat: “Ginsugiran ako ni Geshem
kag nagpili ka pa gani sang mga propeta nga magproklamar sa imo sa Jerusalem nga ikaw na ang hari sang Juda. Sigurado nga mabalitaan gid ini sang hari, gani magkadto ka diri kay estoryahan ta ini nga mga butang.”
Amo ini ang akon sabat sa iya: “Wala sing kamatuoran inang imo mga ginapanghambal. Ginhimo-himo mo lang ina.”
Nahibaluan ko nga ginapahog lang nila kami para mauntat ang amon pag-obra. Pero nagpangamuyo ako sa Dios nga pabakuron pa gid niya ako.
Sang nahuman na ang pader sang siyudad, kag napangtakod na ang mga sira sini, ginbutang sa ila katungdanan ang mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo , ang mga manugkanta sa templo sa templo , kag ang mga Levita.
Ginhatag ko ang responsibilidad sa pagdumala sa Jerusalem sa akon utod nga si Hanani kaupod kay Hanania nga kumander sang mga guwardya sa mga guwardya sa mabakod nga kuta. Ginpili ko si Hanania kay masaligan siya kag nagatahod sa Dios labaw sa kalabanan.
Betlehem kag Netofa
Nagsiling ako sa ila, “Indi ninyo pagpabay-an nga bukas ang mga puwertahan sang siyudad kon udtong-adlaw,
Mga kaliwat ni Jedaya (halin sa pamilya ni Jeshua)
Sadto nga tion, malapad ang siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem pero diutay lang ang mga pumuluyo sini kag diutay man ang mga balay.
Mga manugkanta nga mga kaliwat nila ni Asaf
Keros, Sia, Padon,
Lebana, Hagaba, Shalmai,
Hanan, Gidel, Gahar,
Gani ginbutang sang akon Dios sa akon hunahuna nga tipunon ang mga pangulo, mga opisyal, kag ang iban pa nga mga pumuluyo para i-census sila suno sa kada pamilya. Nakita ko ang lista sang mga pamilya nga una nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag. Amo ini ang nakasulat didto:
Reaya, Rezin, Nekoda,
Gazam, Uza, Pasea,
Besai, Meunim, Nefushesim,
Sotai, Soferet, Perida,
Pokeret Hazebaim, kag Amon.
Ang kadamuon nila nga mga kaliwat sang mga suluguon sa templo kag mga kaliwat sang mga suluguon ni Solomon, 392.
wala labot sa mga suluguon nila nga lalaki kag babayi nga 7,337 kag mga manugkanta nga lalaki kag babayi nga 245.
Ang iban nga mga pangulo sang mga pamilya nag-amot para sa pagpatindog liwat sang templo. Ang gobernador naghatag sang walo ka kilo nga mga sensilyo nga bulawan, 50 ka yahong nga gamiton sa templo nga gamiton sa templo , kag 530 ka panid nga bayo para sa mga pari.
Ang iban nga mga pangulo sang mga pamilya naghatag para sa sini nga buluhaton sang 168 ka kilo nga mga sensilyo nga bulawan kag 1,200 ka kilo nga pilak.
Ang kabilugan nga ginhatag sang iban pa nga mga tawo 168 ka kilo nga mga sensilyo nga bulawan, 1,100 ka kilo nga pilak, kag 67 ka panid nga bayo para sa mga pari.
Pag-abot sang ikapito nga bulan, sang nagaestar na ang mga Israelinhon sa ila mga banwa,
nagtipon sila tanan sa Jerusalem sa Jerusalem nga may pag-isa, didto sa plasa nga ara sa atubangan sang Puwertahan nga Pakadto sa Tubig. Ginpangabay nila si Ezra nga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga kuhaon niya kag basahon kag basahon ang Libro sang Kasuguan ni Moises nga ginpatuman sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon.
Nagsiling pa gid si Nehemias, “Magselebrar kamo kag magkaon sang manamit nga mga pagkaon kag mag-inom sang manamit nga mga ilimnon. Hatagi ninyo ang mga wala sing pagkaon, kay ang ini nga adlaw balaan sa Ginoo. Kag indi kamo magpangasubo, kay ang kalipay nga ginahatag sang Ginoo Ginoo makapabakod sa inyo.”
Nagsiling man ang mga Levita, “Maghipos kamo! Indi kamo magpangasubo! Kay balaan ang ini nga adlaw.”
Gani naglakat ang tanan nga tawo para magkaon kag mag-inom kag maghatag sang pagkaon sa iban. Nagselebrar sila nga may dako nga kalipay tungod kay naintiendihan nila ang mga mensahi sang Dios sang Dios nga ginbasa sa ila.
Sang ikaduha nga adlaw sang sadto nga bulan, nagtipon kay Ezra ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya, ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita para magtuon pa gid parte sa Kasuguan.
Nadiskobrehan nila sa Kasuguan nga nagsugo ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Moises nga ang mga Israelinhon dapat mag-estar sa mga payag sa tion sang piesta nga ginahiwat sa ikapito nga bulan.
Kag dapat nila nga ipahibalo sa Jerusalem kag sa iban pa nila nga mga banwa ang sugo sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magkadto sila sa kabukiran kag magpanguha sang mga sanga sang olibo, mirto, palma, kag sang mga sanga sang madabong nga mga kahoy para himuon nga mga payag, suno sa nasulat sa Kasuguan sa Kasuguan .
Gani nagpanguha ang mga tawo sang mga sanga kag naghimo sang payag sa matapan nga matapan nga atop sang ila mga balay, sa mga ugsaran sang ila mga balay, sa ugsaran sang templo sang Dios, sa plasa nga ara sa atubangan sang Puwertahan nga Pakadto sa Tubig, kag sa Puwertahan ni Efraim.
Tanan sila nga nagbalik halin sa pagkabihag naghimo sang mga payag kag didto nag-estar. Malipayon gid sila; wala sila makaagi selebrar nga pareho sina halin sang panahon ni Josue nga anak ni Nun.
Adlaw-adlaw nagabasa si Ezra sa Libro sang Kasuguan sang Dios sa atubangan sang mga tawo, sa atubangan sang mga tawo, halin sa nahauna nga adlaw sang piesta sang piesta hasta sa katapusan nga adlaw. Ginselebrar nila ang piesta sang pito ka adlaw, kag sang ikawalo nga adlaw nagtipon sila sa pagsimba sa Ginoo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa Kasuguan.
Nagtindog si Ezra nga manunudlo sa mataas nga entablado nga kahoy nga ginpatindog para sa sadto nga okasyon. Sa iya tuo nagatindog sila ni Matitia, Shema, Anaya, Uria, Hilkia, kag Maasea. Kag sa iya wala nagatindog sila ni Pedaya, Mishael, Malkia, Hashum, Hashbadana, Zacarias, kag Meshulam.
Makita si Ezra sang tanan tungod kay mataas ang iya ginatindugan. Kag sang ginbuksan niya ang libro, nagtindog ang tanan nga tawo.
Gindayaw ni Ezra ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang gamhanan nga Dios! Kag nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Amen! Amen!” samtang ginabayaw nila ang ila kamot. Dayon nagluhod sila kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Sang nagtindog na ang mga tawo, ginpaathag sa ila ang Kasuguan. Ang nagpaathag sa ila amo ang mga Levita nga sila ni Jeshua, Bani, Sherebia, Jamin, Akub, Shabetai, Hodia, Maasea, Kelita, Azaria, Jozabad, Hanan, kag Pelaya.
Nagbasa sila sa Libro sang Kasuguan sang Dios kag ginpaathag ang kahulugan sini,
Samtang nagapamati ang mga tawo sa ginasiling sang Kasuguan, nagahibi sila. Nagsiling sa ila si Nehemias nga gobernador, si Ezra nga pari kag manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag ang mga Levita nga nagapaathag sa ila sang Kasuguan, “Ang ini nga adlaw balaan sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, gani indi kamo maghibi.”
Sang ika-24 nga adlaw sang amo man nga bulan, nagtipon ang mga Israelinhon para magpuasa. Nagsuksok sila sang sako kag nagbutang sang abo sa ila ulo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo .
Naghimo ka sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang kontra sa hari sang Egypt,
Gintunga mo ang dagat sa atubangan sang imo katawhan para matabok nila ini nga nagalakat sa mamala nga duta. Pero ginlumsan mo ang ila mga kaaway nga naglagas sa ila. Pareho sila sa bato nga naglugdang sa mabaskog nga tubig.
Kon adlaw, gintuytuyan mo sila paagi sa panganod nga daw haligi, kag kon gab-i, paagi sa kalayo nga daw haligi, sa paghatag sang kasanag sa ila ginalaktan.
“Nagpanaog ka sa Bukid sang Sinai halin sa langit kag nagpakighambal ka sa ila. Ginhatagan mo sila sang husto nga mga pagpanudlo kag maayo nga mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan.
Gintudluan mo sila parte sa ila nga himuon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Kag ginsugo mo sila paagi sa imo alagad nga si Moises nga tumanon nila ang imo mga sugo, mga pagsulundan, kag mga pagpanudlo.
Sang gin-gutom sila, ginhatagan mo sila sang pagkaon halin sa langit. Kag sang gin-uhaw sila, ginpainom mo sila sang tubig halin sa bato. Ginsilingan mo sila nga sudlon nila kag panag-iyahan ang duta nga imo ginsumpa nga ihatag sa ila.
Pero sila nga amon mga katigulangan nangin matinaas-taason, matig-a sing ulo, kag indi matinumanon sa imo mga sugo.
Indi sila gusto magpamati sa imo mga ginasiling, sa imo mga ginasiling, kag ginkalimtan lang nila ang mga milagro nga imo ginpanghimo sa ila. Nangin matig-a ang ila mga ulo, kag nagrebelde sila sa imo paagi sa pagpili sang pangulo nga magdala sa ila pabalik sa pagkaulipon sa Egypt sa Egypt . Pero mapinatawaron ka nga Dios, maluluy-on, mabinalak-on, indi dali mangakig, kag mahigugmaon. Gani wala mo sila pagsikwaya,
bisan naghimo sila sang imahen nga baka, kag nagsiling, ‘Amo ini ang aton dios nga nagpaguwa sa aton sa Egypt.’ Puwerte gid ang ila pag-insulto sa imo!
Pero tungod sang imo dako nga kaluoy sa ila, wala mo sila pagpabay-i sa kamingawan. Wala mo pagkuhaa ang panganod nga daw haligi nga nagatuytoy sa ila kon adlaw, kag amo man ang kalayo nga daw haligi nga nagahatag sang kasanag sa ila ginalaktan kon gab-i.
Wala nila ginpaintra ang mga indi Israelinhon. Nagtindog sila kag gintuad nila ang ila mga sala kag ang mga sala sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ginhatag mo sa ila ang imo maayo nga Espiritu sa pagtudlo sa ila. Padayon mo sila nga ginpakaon sang manna,
Ginhatagan mo sila sang ila mga kinahanglanon sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig sa kamingawan, gani wala gid sila makulangi. Wala magdaan ang ila mga bayo kag wala man malap-uki ang ila mga tiil sa pagpanglakaton.
“Ginpapierdi mo sa ila ang mga ginharian, mga nasyon, kag ang mga duta sa ila palibot. Gin-agaw nila ang duta sang Heshbon nga ginadumalahan ni Haring Sihon, kag ang duta sang Bashan nga ginadumalahan ni Haring Og.
Ginpadamo mo ang ila mga kaliwat, pareho sa mga bituon sa langit. Gindala mo sila sa duta nga imo ginpromisa sa ila mga katigulangan nga sudlon nila kag panag-iyahan.
Ginsulod matuod nila ini kag ginsakop. Ginpapierdi mo sa ila ang mga Canaanhon nga nagaestar sa sadto nga duta. Gintugyan mo sa ila ang mga Canaanhon pati ang ila mga hari para himuon sang imo katawhan ang gusto nila nga himuon sa ila.
Gin-agaw sang imo katawhan ang napaderan nga mga banwa kag ang mapatubason nga mga duta. Gin-agaw man nila ang mga balay nga puno sang maayo nga mga butang, kag ang mga bubon, mga talamnan sang ubas, mga talamnan sang olibo kag iban pa nga mga kahoy nga nagapamunga, nga puwerte kadamo. Nagkaon sila hasta nga nabusog sila kag nagmayo ang ila lawas. Nagkalipay sila sa imo puwerte nga kaayo sa ila.
“Pero sa pihak sina, nagsupak sila kag nagrebelde sa imo. Gintalikdan nila ang imo Kasuguan, kag ginpatay nila ang imo mga propeta nga nagtawag sa ila nga magbalik sa imo. Puwerte gid ang ila pag-insulto sa imo!
Gani gintugyan mo sila sa ila mga kaaway nga nagpaantos sa ila. Pero sang ginpaantos sila nagpangayo sila sang bulig sa imo, kag ginpamatian mo pa gihapon sila didto sa langit. Kag sa dako mo nga kaluoy, ginhatagan mo sila sang mga pangulo nga nagluwas sa ila sa kamot sang ila mga kaaway.
“Pero kon maayo na gani ang ila kahimtangan nagahimo naman sila sing malain sa imo atubangan. Dayon ginapabay-an mo sila sa kamot sang ila mga kaaway para gamhan sila. Kag kon magpangayo naman sila liwat sang imo bulig, ginapamatian mo sila didto sa langit. Kag sa imo kaluoy ginaluwas mo sila permi.
Ginpaandaman mo sila nga magtuman liwat sila sa imo Kasuguan, pero nangin matinaas-taason sila kag wala nila gintuman ang imo mga sugo. Nagpakasala sila kontra sa imo mga sugo nga nagahatag sang maayo nga maayo nga kabuhi sa nagatuman sini. Sa katig-a sang ila mga ulo nagtalikod sila sa imo, kag indi sila gusto magpamati sa imo.
Nagpabilin sila sa pagtindog sa sulod sang tatlo ka oras samtang ginabasa sa ila ang Libro sang Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios. Kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka oras nagtuad sila sang ila mga sala kag nagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Sa malawig nga mga tinuig ginbatas mo sila, kag ginpaandaman sila sang imo Espiritu paagi sa mga propeta. Pero wala sila nagsapak, gani gintugyan mo sila sa mga katawhan sa palibot nila.
Pero tungod sa imo dako nga kaluoy, wala mo sila pagpabay-i ukon paglaglaga sing bug-os, kay maluluy-on kag mabinalak-on ka nga Dios.
“Ikaw nga amon Dios makagagahom kag makatilingala gid. Ginatuman mo ang imo kasugtanan kag ginapakita mo ang imo gugma. Karon, indi pag-ibaliwala ang amon mga pag-antos. Nag-antos kami tanan nga imo katawhan, pati ang amon mga hari, mga pangulo, mga pari, mga propeta, kag mga katigulangan, halin pa sang tion nga ginpaantos kami sang mga hari sang Assyria hasta subong.
Matarong ang ginhimo mo nga pagsilot sa amon. Matutom ka gid sa amon, pero kami ya nagpakasala.
Ang amon mga hari, mga pangulo, mga pari, kag mga katigulangan wala magtuman sang imo Kasuguan. Wala nila ginsapak ang imo mga sugo kag mga paandam.
Bisan may ara sila sang ila kaugalingon nga ginharian, kag nagaeksperiensya sang imo dako nga kaayo, kag bisan ginhatagan mo sila sang malapad kag mapatubason nga duta, wala gihapon sila mag-alagad sa imo kag wala magtalikod sa ila malain nga mga pangginawi.
Amo gani nga mga ulipon kami subong sa sini nga duta nga ginhatag mo sa amon mga katigulangan, sa diin makakaon sila sang mga patubas sini kag sang iban pa nga maayo nga mga produkto sini.
Ang bugana nga mga patubas sang duta nagakadto sa mga hari nga ginapahari mo sa amon tungod sa amon mga sala. Ginahimo nila ang ila luyag himuon sa amon kag sa amon mga kasapatan, kag puwerte ang amon pag-antos.
“Tungod sadto, kami nga mga Judio naghimo sang isa ka mabakod nga kasugtanan. Ginsulat ini kag ginpirmahan
Ang iban nga mga Levita nagatindog sa hagdanan, nga nagapangamuyo sing tudo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios. Sila amo si Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel, Shebania, Buni, Sherebia, Bani, kag Kenani.
Dayon nagsiling sila, Dayon nagsiling sila, “ O Ginoo , O Ginoo Ginoo , dalayawon ang imo pagkagamhanan! Indi ini matupungan sang amon mga pagdayaw.
Ikaw lang ang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginhimo mo ang kalangitan, ang duta, ang dagat, kag ang tanan nga ara sa ila. Ginahatagan mo sang kabuhi ang tanan mo nga tinuga, kag ginasimba ka sang mga langitnon nga mga tinuga.
“Ikaw ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga nagpili kay Abram kag nagdala sa iya paguwa sa Ur nga sakop sang mga Kaldeanhon.
Nakita mo nga matutom siya sa imo, kag naghimo ka sang kasugtanan sa iya nga ihatag mo sa iya mga kaliwat ang duta sang mga Canaanhon, Hithanon, Amornon, Periznon, Jebusnon, kag sang mga Girgashnon. Kag gintuman mo ang imo promisa sa ila, tungod kay matarong ka.
“Nakita mo ang pag-antos sang amon mga katigulangan sa Egypt. Nabatian mo ang pagpangayo nila sang bulig sa imo sang didto sila sa Mapula nga Dagat.
Ang una nga nagpirma amo si Gobernador Nehemias nga anak ni Hacalia, kag si Zedekia.
Ang iban pa nga mga katawhan sang Israel, pati mga pari, mga Levita, mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo , mga manugkanta, mga suluguon sa templo, kag ang tanan nga nagseparar sang ila kaugalingon sa mga indi Israelinhon nga nag-estar sa amon duta para magsunod sa Kasuguan sang Dios, pati ang ila mga asawa kag mga kabataan nga may buot na,
nagasumpa kaupod sang amon mga pangulo nga tumanon namon ang Kasuguan nga ginhatag sang Dios paagi sa iya alagad nga si Moises. Nagasumpa man kami nga batunon namon ang pagpakamalaot sang Dios kon indi namon matuman ang amon promisa nga sundon namon ang tanan nga sugo kag pagsulundan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Nagapromisa kami nga indi namon pagtugutan nga magpangasawa ukon magpamana ang amon mga anak sa mga indi Israelinhon nga nagaestar sa amon duta.
Nagapromisa man kami nga Nagapromisa man kami nga kon magbaligya ining mga indi Israelinhon sang uyas ukon sang bisan ano nga inugbaligya sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway ukon sa iban nga balaan nga adlaw, indi gid kami magbakal. Kag kada ikapito nga tuig, indi gid namon pagtamnan ang amon duta, kag indi na namon pagsukton ang utang sang iban.
Nagapromisa pa gid kami nga tumanon namon ang sugo nga maghatag kami kada tuig sang apat ka gramo nga pilak para sa buluhaton sa templo sang amon Dios.
Ini para inuggasto sa tinapay nga ginahalad sa presensya sang Dios, sa mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga regalo nga ginahalad adlaw-adlaw, sa mga halad para sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, para sa Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, kag sa iban pa nga natalana nga mga piesta, kag sa iban pa nga mga halad nga balaan pareho sang halad sa pagpakatinlo nga ginahalad para matubos ang katawhan sang Israel sa ila mga sala. Ginagamit man ato nga kuwarta sa iban pa nga mga kinahanglanon sa templo sang amon Dios.
Kami nga mga katawhan, pati ang amon mga pari kag mga Levita, naggabot-gabot para mahibaluan namon kon san-o magdala sang inuggatong ang tagsa namon ka pamilya kada tuig para panggatong sa mga halad sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, suno sa nasulat sa Kasuguan.
Nagapromisa man kami nga Nagapromisa man kami nga dal-on namon sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kada tuig ang una nga patubas sang amon uma kag ang una nga bunga sang amon mga tanom.
Dal-on man namon sa mga pari nga nagaalagad sa templo sang amon Dios ang amon kamagulangan nga mga anak nga lalaki, pati man ang kamagulangan sang amon mga baka, karnero, kag kanding, suno sa nasulat sa Kasuguan.
Nagapromisa pa gid kami nga Nagapromisa pa gid kami nga dal-on namon sa mga pari, didto sa bodega sang templo sang amon Dios, ang amon pinakamaayo nga klase sang harina kag ang iban pa nga mga halad nga regalo. Dal-on man namon ang amon pinakamaayo nga mga prutas, kag ang pinakamaayo nga bag-o nga bino kag lana sang olibo. Dal-on man namon sa mga Levita ang ikanapulo sang amon mga patubas, kay sila ang nagapangolekta sang mga ikanapulo sa tanan nga banwa nga may mga uma. Kon magpangolekta na sang mga ikanapulo ang mga Levita,
updan sila sang pari nga kaliwat ni Aaron. Kag ang ikanapulo nga parte sang makolekta dal-on sang mga Levita sa bodega sang templo sang amon Dios.
Gani nagapromisa kami nga Gani nagapromisa kami nga indi namon pagpabay-an ang templo sang amon Dios.
Sang sadto nga tion, ang mga pangulo sang katawhan sang Israel sang Israel nagaestar sa Jerusalem, ang balaan nga siyudad. Karon, naggabot-gabot ang katawhan agod sa kada napulo ka pamilya may isa ka pamilya nga mag-estar sa Jerusalem, samtang ang nabilin magpabilin sa ila mga banwa.
si Jedaya nga anak ni Joyarib, si Jakin,
si Zadok anak ni Merayot; kag si Merayot anak ni Ahitub nga manugdumala sa templo sang Dios);
si Adaya nga anak ni Jeroham (si Jeroham anak ni Pelalia; si Pelalia anak ni Amzi; si Amzi anak ni Zacarias; si Zacarias anak ni Pashur; kag si Pashur anak ni Malkia);
si Amashsai nga anak ni Azarel (si Azarel anak ni Azai; si Azai anak ni Meshilemot; kag si Meshilemot anak ni Imer);
Ang ila pinakapangulo amo si Zabdiel nga anak ni Hagedolim.
si Shemaya nga anak ni Hashub (si Hashub anak ni Azrikam; si Azrikam anak ni Hashabia; kag si Hashabia anak ni Buni);
si Shabetai kag si Jozabad, nga amo ang duha nga gintugyanan nga magdumala sa mga buluhaton sang mga Levita sa guwa sang templo;
si Abda nga anak ni Shamua (si Shamua anak ni Galal, kag si Galal anak ni Jedutun).
Ang kadamuon sang mga Levita nga nag-estar sa Jerusalem, ang Jerusalem, ang balaan nga siyudad, 284 tanan.
si Akub kag si Talmon, kag ang ila mga kaupod nga mga guwardya nga 172 ka lalaki.
Gindayaw sang mga tawo ang tanan nga nagbuluntar nga mag-estar sa Jerusalem.
Ang iban nga mga Israelinhon, pati mga pari kag mga Levita, nag-estar sa mga duta nga ginpanubli nila sa ila mga katigulangan sa nagkalain-lain nga banwa sang Juda.
Pero ang mga suluguon sa templo nga ginadumalahan ni Ziha kag ni Gishpa didto nag-estar sa bulobukid sang bulobukid sang Ofel.
Ang pinakapangulo sang mga Levita sa Jerusalem amo si Uzi nga anak ni Bani. (Si Bani anak ni Hashabia; si Hashabia anak ni Matania; kag si Matania anak ni Mica.) Si Uzi isa sa mga kaliwat ni Asaf, nga amo ang mga manugkanta sa templo sang Dios.
Ang hari ang nagmando sa mga manugkanta parte sa ila mga buluhaton kada adlaw.
Si Petahia nga anak ni Meshezabel, nga isa sa mga kaliwat ni Zera nga anak ni Juda, amo ang representante sang katawhan sang Israel sang Israel sa hari sang Persia sang Persia .
Ang iban nga mga katawhan sang Juda nag-estar sa mga banwa nga malapit sa ila mga uma. Ang iban sa ila nag-estar sa Kiriat Arba, Dibon, Jekabzeel, kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sang sini nga mga banwa.
Ang iban sa ila nag-estar Ang iban sa ila nag-estar sa Jeshua, Molada, Bet Pelet,
Hazar Shual, Beersheba kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sini.
May ara man sa ila nga nag-estar May ara man sa ila nga nag-estar sa Ziklag, sa Mecona kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sini,
sa En Rimon, Zora, Jarmut,
Zanoa, Adulam, kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sang sini nga mga banwa. Ang iban pa gid sa ila nag-estar Ang iban pa gid sa ila nag-estar sa Lakish kag sa malapit nga mga uma, kag sa Azeka kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sini. Gani nag-estar ang katawhan sang Juda halin sa Beersheba hasta sa Pulopatag sang Hinom.
Ang iban nga mga katawhan sang Benjamin nag-estar sa Geba, Micmash, Aya, Betel kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sini.
Ang iban sa ila nag-estar Ang iban sa ila nag-estar sa Anatot, Nob, Anania,
Hazor, Rama, Gitaim,
Hadid, Zeboim, Nebalat,
Lod, Ono, kag sa Pulopatag sang mga Manug-obra.
Ang iban nga mga Levita nga nag-estar sa Juda ginpaestar upod sa katawhan sang Benjamin.
si Maasea nga anak ni Baruc (si Baruc anak ni Col Hoze; si Col Hoze anak ni Hazaya; si Hazaya anak ni Adaya; si Adaya anak ni Joyarib; kag si Joyarib anak ni Zacarias nga halin sa kaliwat ni Shela).
(Sa mga kaliwat ni Perez may 468 ka maabilidad nga mga lalaki nga nag-estar man sa Jerusalem.)
si Salu nga anak ni Meshulam (si Meshulam anak ni Joed; si Joed anak ni Pedaya; si Pedaya anak ni Kolaya; si Kolaya anak ni Maasea; si Maasea anak ni Itiel; kag si Itiel anak ni Jeshaya);
Ang kadamuon sang mga Benjaminhon Ang kadamuon sang mga Benjaminhon 928 tanan tanan .
Si Joel nga anak ni Zicri amo ang ila pinakapangulo kag ang ikaduha sa iya amo si Juda nga anak ni Hasenua.
Si Eliashib amay ni Joyada.
Kag si Jonatan amay ni Jadua.
Si Hanania ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Jeremias.
Si Jehohanan ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Amaria.
Si Jose ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Shebania.
Si Helkai ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Merayot.
Si Meshulam ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Gineton.
Si Piltai ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Miniamin kag ni Moadia.
Si Jehonatan ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Shemaya.
Si Uzi ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Jedaya.
Si Eber ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Amok.
Si Netanel ang pangulo sang pamilya ni Jedaya.
Sang panahon sang paghari ni Darius sa Persia, ginlista ang mga ngalan sang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang mga pari kag sang mga Levita, sadtong panahon sang mga pangulo nga pari nga sila sang mga pangulo nga pari nga sila ni Eliashib, Joyada, Johanan, kag Jadua.
Ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang mga Levita nalista sa Libro sang Kasaysayan hasta sang panahon ni Johanan nga apo ni Eliashib.
Amo ini ang mga pangulo sang mga pamilya sang mga Levita: Si Hashabia, Sherebia kag si Jeshua nga anak ni Kadmiel,
Ang mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo nga nagabantay sa mga bodega nga ara sa mga puwertahan dampi amo sila ni Meshulam, Talmon, kag Akub.
Ini sila nag-alagad sang panahon ni Joyakim nga anak ni Jeshua kag apo ni Jozadak, kag sang panahon ni Nehemias nga gobernador kag ni Ezra nga pari kag manunudlo sang Kasuguan.
Sang tion sang pagdedikar sang pader sang Jerusalem, ginpatawag ang mga Levita halin sa ila ginaestaran. Ginpakadto sila sa Jerusalem para magpartisipar sa malipayon nga selebrasyon sang pagdedikar sang templo paagi sa pagkanta sang mga kanta sang pagpasalamat kag pagtukar sang mga cymbals, arpa, kag lira.
Ginpakadto man ang mga manugkanta halin sa mga baryo sa palibot sang Jerusalem kag sa mga baryo sang mga Netofanhon.
May ara sa ila nga halin sa banwa sang Bet Gilgal, kag sa lugar sang Geba kag Azmavet. Kay ang mga manugkanta nagtukod sang ila kaugalingon nga mga baryo sa palibot sang Jerusalem.
Naghimo sang seremonya sa pagpakatinlo ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita para matinluan sila, kag amo man ang ila ginhimo para sa mga tawo, sa mga puwertahan sang siyudad kag sa pader sini.
Gindala ko ang mga pangulo sang Juda sa ibabaw sang pader, kag nagpatipon ako didto sang duha ka dako nga grupo sang mga manugkanta para magpasalamat sa Dios sa Dios . Ang isa ka grupo nagmartsa didto sa ibabaw sang pader pakadto sa Puwertahan nga Ginahabuyan sang Basura.
Nagasunod sa ila si Hoshaya kag ang katunga sang mga pangulo sang Juda,
kaupod sila ni Azaria, Ezra, Meshulam,
Juda, Benjamin, Shemaya, Jeremias,
kag ang pila ka pari nga nagapatunog sang trumpeta. Nagasunod man si Zacarias nga anak ni Jonatan. (Si Jonatan anak ni Shemaya. Si Shemaya anak ni Matania. Si Matania anak ni Micaya. Kag si Micaya anak ni Zacur nga kaliwat ni Asaf.)
Nagasunod man kay Zacarias ang iya mga kaupod nga sila ni Shemaya, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Netanel, Juda, kag Hanani. May dala sila nga mga instrumento pareho sang mga ginpangtukar sadto ni Haring Haring David nga alagad sang Dios. Ini nga grupo ginapangunahan ni Ezra nga manunudlo sang Kasuguan.
Pag-abot nila sa Puwertahan nga Pakadto sa Tuburan, nagsaka sila sa hulu-hagdanan nga pakadto sa Banwa ni David.
Ang ikaduha nga grupo nagmartsa pawala sa ibabaw sang pader. Nagsunod ako sa sini nga grupo kaupod ang katunga sang katawhan.
Halin didto nag-agi kami sa Puwertahan ni Efraim, sa Daan nga Puwertahan,
Ang duha ka grupo nga nagapasalamat sa Dios samtang nagamartsa nagderetso sa templo sang Dios. Nagderetso man ako didto kag ang katunga sang mga opisyal nga kaupod ko.
Didto man ang mga pari nga nagapatunog sang trumpeta nga sila ni Eliakim, Maasea, Miniamin, Micaya, Elioenai, Zacarias, kag Hanania,
kag ang mga manugkanta nga ang mga manugkanta nga sila ni Maasea, Shemaya, Eleazar, Uzi, Jehohanan, Malkia, Elam, kag Ezer. Ini sila nga mga manugkanta ginapanguluhan ni Jezrahia.
Sadto nga adlaw, naghalad sila sang madamo gid nga mga halad kag nagsinadya, tungod kay ginlipay gid sila sang Dios. Pati mga babayi kag mga bata nagsinadya man. Gani ang gahod sang ila sinadya mabatian pa sa malayo.
Sang sadto man nga adlaw, nagbutang sila sang mga lalaki nga magdumala sang mga bodega nga bulutangan sang mga regalo, sang una nga patubas, kag sang ikanapulo. Sila ang magkolekta sang mga halad halin sa mga uma sa palibot nga mga banwa para sa mga pari kag sa mga Levita, suno sa Kasuguan. Kay nalipay ang katawhan sang Juda sa mga buluhaton sang mga pari kag sang mga Levita.
Ginhimo nila ang seremonya sa pagpakatinlo kag ang iban pa nga mga buluhaton nga ginapatuman sa ila sang ila Dios. Ginhimo man sang mga manugkanta kag sang mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo ang ila mga buluhaton suno sa mga sugo ni Haring Haring David kag sang iya anak nga si Solomon.
Halin pa sang panahon ni Haring Haring David kag ni Asaf, may ara na sang mga nagapangulo sa mga manugkanta sang pagdayaw kag pagpasalamat sa Dios.
Gani sang panahon ni Zerubabel kag ni Nehemias, ang tanan nga Israelinhon naghatag sang ila mga halad para sa mga manugkanta kag mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo , kag pati man sa mga Levita. Kag ginpartihan man sang mga Levita ang mga pari nga mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Aaron halin sa ila mga nabaton.
Ang mga Levita amo sila ni Jeshua, Binui, Kadmiel, Sherebia, Juda kag Matania. Si Matania kag ang iya mga kaupod amo ang gintugyanan sa pagkanta sang mga kanta sang pagpasalamat.
Kag si Bakbukia, Uni, kag ang ila mga kaupod amo ang gintugyanan sa pagsabat sa sadto nga kanta.
Sang ginbasa ang Libro ni Moises sa mga tawo sa sina nga adlaw, nadiskobrehan nila nga ginabawalan ang mga Ammonhon kag mga Moabnon sa pag-impon sa komunidad sang Dios.
Nahibaluan ko man nga ang mga Levita wala na mahatagi sang parte nga para sa ila, gani sila kag ang mga manugkanta nga gintugyanan sa mga buluhaton sa templo nagpalauli na sa pagpanguma.
Gani ginsabdong ko ang mga opisyal kag ginsilingan, “Ngaa ginpabay-an ninyo ang templo sang Dios?” Ginpatawag ko dayon ang mga Levita kag ang mga manugkanta kag ginpabalik sa ila mga buluhaton sa templo.
Kag sa liwat ang tanan nga katawhan sang Juda nagdala sang ikanapulo sang ila mga uyas, duga sang ubas, kag lana didto sa mga bodega.
Ang ginpadumala ko sa mga bodega amo sila ni Shelemia nga pari, si Zadok nga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag si Pedaya nga Levita. Ginpabulig ko man sa ila si Hanan nga anak ni Zacur kag apo ni Matania. Sila ang akon ginpili Sila ang akon ginpili tungod kay masaligan sila. Gintugyan ko man sa ila ang pagpanghatag sang mga parte sang ila kapareho nga mga manugpangabudlay sa templo.
Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, “O Dios ko, dumduma ako kag indi gid pagkalimti ang mga maayo nga ginhimo ko para sa imo templo kag sa mga buluhaton sini.”
Sadto nga tion, may nakita ako nga mga taga-Juda nga nagapuga sang ubas sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Ang iban sa ila nagakarga sa mga donkey sang mga uyas, bino, ubas, higos,
May ara man nga mga taga-Tyre nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem nga nagdala sang mga isda kag sang iban pa nga mga inugbaligya. Kag ginbaligya nila ini sa mga taga-Juda nga ara sa Jerusalem sa sina nga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Gani ginsabdong ko ang mga pangulo sang Juda kag ginsilingan, “Ano bala ini nga kalautan nga inyo ginahimo? Wala ninyo ginapakabalaan ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway!
Indi bala nga amo man ini ang ginhimo sang inyo mga katigulangan, gani kita kag ang ini nga siyudad ginsilutan sang aton Dios? Karon, ginapaakig pa gid ninyo tapat ang Dios sa inyo ginahimo, kay wala ninyo ginapakabalaan ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.”
Gani nagmando ako nga siradhan ang puwertahan sang siyudad kada Biyernes
Kay wala nila paghatagi sang pagkaon kag ilimnon ang mga Israelinhon sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt sang pagguwa nila sa Egypt . Sa baylo, ginsuhulan nila si Balaam nga pakamalauton ang mga Israelinhon. Pero ang pagpakamalaot kuntani nga ato ginhimo sang Dios nga pagpakamaayo.
Kon kaisa, ang mga negosyante nagatulog sa guwa sang Jerusalem kon Biyernes sang gab-i.
Pero ginpaandaman ko sila. Siling ko, “Ngaa diri kamo nagatulog sa pader sang siyudad? Kon liwaton pa ninyo ini makatilaw gid kamo sa akon.” Gani halin sadto wala na sila magbalik sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, “O Dios ko, dumduma man ining ginhimo ko, kag kaluoyi ako suno sa imo dako nga gugma.”
Sadto man nga mga inadlaw, nakita ko nga may mga taga-Juda nga nagpangasawa sang mga babayi nga taga-Ashdod, taga-Ammon, kag taga-Moab.
Katunga sang ila mga anak nagahambal sa lingguahe sang Ashdod ukon sa lingguahe sang iban nga mga lugar, kag indi sila makahambal sa lingguahe sang Juda.
Gani ginsabdong ko kag ginpakamalaot ini nga mga taga-Juda. Ginhanot ko ang iban sa ila kag gin-gan-it ang ila mga buhok. Ginpasumpa ko sila sa ngalan sang ngalan sang Dios nga sila kag ang ila mga anak indi na gid magpangasawa ukon magpamana sang mga indi Israelinhon.
Dayon nagsiling ako sa ila, “Indi bala nga amo ini ang kabangdanan sang pagpakasala ni Haring Solomon sang Israel? Wala sing hari sa bisan diin nga nasyon nga pareho sa iya. Palangga siya sang iya Dios, kag ginhimo siya sang Dios nga hari sa bilog nga Israel. Pero sa pihak sini nagpakasala siya tungod nga gin-ganyat siya sang iya mga asawa nga indi Israelinhon.
Ti, pasugtan lang bala namon ining kalautan nga ginahimo ninyo nga amo ang pagluib sa aton Dios paagi sa pagpangasawa sang indi Israelinhon?”
Si Joyada nga anak sang pangulo nga pari nga si Eliashib may anak nga nakapangasawa sa anak ni Sanbalat nga taga-Horon, gani ginpahalin ko siya.
Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, “O Dios ko, indi pagkalimti nga silutan nga silutan sila tungod nga ginbaliwala nila ang ila pagkapari kag ang ila panaad bilang mga pari kag mga Levita.”
Sang mabatian sang mga tawo ato nga kasuguan, wala nila ginpaimpon sa ila ang indi matuod nga mga Israelinhon.
Gani ginsiguro ko nga ang katawhan sang Israel hilway na sa bisan ano nga impluwensya sang mga indi Israelinhon. Kag ginhatagan ko sang obra ang mga pari kag ang mga Levita suno sa tagsa nila ka buluhaton.
Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, Dayon nagpangamuyo ako, “O Dios ko, dumduma ako kag pakamaayuha.”
Antes ato natabo, si Eliashib nga pari, nga manugdumala sang mga bodega sa templo sang amon Dios kag paryente ni Tobia,
nagtugot kay Tobia nga gamiton niya ang dako nga kuwarto sa templo. Ini nga kuwarto ginagamit sadto nga bodega para sa mga halad nga regalo, insenso, mga kagamitan sa templo, mga halad sa mga pari, mga ikanapulo sang mga uyas, duga sang ubas, kag lana, nga suno sa Kasuguan para sa mga Levita, sa mga manugkanta, kag sa mga guwardya sang mga puwertahan sang templo sang templo .
Wala ako sa Jerusalem sang natabo ato, tungod kay sang ika-32 nga tuig sang paghari ni Artaserkses sa Babilonia, nagkadto ako sa iya. Sang ulihi ginsugtan niya ako
nga magbalik sa Jerusalem. Kag pag-abot ko, nahibaluan ko ang malain nga ginhimo ni Eliashib nga amo ang pagpaestar kay Tobia sa kuwarto nga ara sa ugsaran sang templo sang Dios.
Sa akon puwerte nga kaakig, ginpanghaboy ko ang tanan nga kagamitan ni Tobia paguwa sa kuwarto.
Dayon nagmando ako nga tinluan ang kuwarto, kag pagkatapos ginpabalik ko didto ang mga kagamitan sang templo pati ang mga halad nga regalo kag ang insenso.
Sang ikapito nga adlaw sang punsyon, malipayon ang hari kay nakainom siya. Ginpatawag niya ang iya pito ka mataas nga opisyal nga personal nga nagaalagad sa iya. Sila amo sanday Mehuman, Bizta, Harbona, Bigta, Abagta, Zetar, kag Carkas. Ginsugo niya sila
nga pakadtuon didto sa iya si Rayna Vashti nga nagasuksok sang iya korona para ipakita ang iya katahom sa mga opisyal kag sa tanan nga bisita, kay matahom gid siya.
Pero sang ginhambalan si Rayna Vashti sang mga alagad sang hari parte sa ginpasugo niya, nagpangindi siya nga magkadto didto. Gani nangakig gid ang hari.
Kinabatasan na sang hari nga magpangayo sang laygay sa mga maalamon nga mga tawo nga nakahibalo sang mga kasuguan kag mga kinabatasan sang ginharian.
Ang permi niya ginapangayuan sang laygay amo sila ni Carshena, Shetar, Admata, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, kag Memucan. Ini sila amo ang pito ka pinakamataas nga mga opisyal sang ginharian sang Persia kag Media, kag dali lang sila makapalapit sa hari.
Nagpamangkot ang hari sa ila, Nagpamangkot ang hari sa ila, “Suno sa kasuguan sang Persia sang Persia , ano bala ang dapat himuon kay Rayna Vashti tungod nga wala siya nagtuman sang akon sugo nga ginpasiling ko sa akon mga alagad?”
Nagsabat si Memucan sa hari kag sa iya mga opisyal, “Nakasala si Rayna Vashti indi lang sa imo, Mahal nga Hari, kundi pati man sa tanan nga opisyal kag mga katawhan sang bilog mo nga ginharian.
Ang ginhimo ni Rayna Vashti sigurado gid nga mahibaluan sang tanan nga babayi sa ginharian, kag sundon man nila ina; indi man sila magtahod sa ila mga bana. Kay magarason sila nga si Rayna Vashti gani wala magtuman sang ginpatawag siya sang hari nga magkadto sa iya.
Sugod subong amo man ina ang himuon sang mga asawa sang mga opisyal sang Persia kag Media nga nakabati sang ginhimo sang rayna. Gani matabo permi nga ang mga asawa indi na magtahod sa ila mga bana, kag ang mga bana mangakig sa ila mga asawa.
“Gani kon gusto mo, Mahal nga Hari, maghimo ka sang isa ka sugo nga nagasiling nga indi na magpakita sa imo si Rayna Vashti, kag ang katungdanan bilang rayna ihatag na lang sa iban nga mas maayo pa sang sa iya. Ipasulat ini nga sugo kag ilakip sa mga kasuguan sang aton ginharian nga aton ginharian nga Persia kag Media para indi na maliwat.
Kag kon masugid na ini sa bilog mo nga ginharian nga puwerte kadako, tahuron sang mga asawa ang ila mga bana, halin sa pinakadungganon nga bana hasta sa pinakakubos.”
Nagustuhan sang hari kag sang iya mga opisyal ang ginsiling ni Memucan, gani ginsunod ini sang hari.
Nagpadala siya sang sulat sa tanan nga probinsya nga sakop sang iya ginharian, suno sa ila mga lingguahe. Kag nakasiling sa sini nga sulat nga ang tagsa ka bana amo ang dapat magdumala sa iya pamilya.
Sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang iya paghari, nagpapunsyon siya para sa iya mga opisyal kag iban pa nga mga alagad. Nagtambong man ang mga lider sang mga soldado sang Persia kag Media, pati ang mga dungganon nga mga tawo kag mga opisyal sang mga probinsya.
Anom ka bulan ang punsyon; kag sa sulod sang sini nga mga binulan ginpakita ni Ahasuerus kon daw ano kamanggaranon ang iya ginharian, kag kon daw ano siya kagamhanan kag kahalangdon.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpapunsyon naman ang hari para sa tanan nga pumuluyo sang napaderan nga siyudad sang Susa, halin sa pinakadungganon hasta sa pinakakubos. Ginhiwat ini nga punsyon sa ugsaran sang palasyo sang hari sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw.
Gindekorahan ang hardin sang puti kag asol nga mga kurtina nga ginhigtan sang higot nga hinimo halin sa maayo nga klase nga linen nga granate,
Samtang nagapunsyon ang mga lalaki nga mga bisita, Samtang nagapunsyon ang mga lalaki nga mga bisita, nagpapunsyon man si Rayna Vashti para sa mga babayi didto sa palasyo ni Haring Ahasuerus.
Sang ulihi, sang naumpawan na si Haring Ahasuerus sa iya kaakig, nadumduman niya si Vashti kag ang ginhimo niya. Nadumduman man niya Nadumduman man niya ang sugo nga iya ginhimo kontra kay Vashti.
Wala magsugid si Ester nga Judio siya tungod kay ginhambalan siya ni Mordecai nga indi gid magpanugid.
Adlaw-adlaw, nagalakat-lakat si Mordecai malapit sa ugsaran sang ginaestaran sang mga babayi sa paghibalo sang kahimtangan ni Ester, kag kon ano na ang nagakatabo sa iya.
Antes paatubangon ang isa ka babayi sa hari kinahanglan makompleto anay niya ang isa ka tuig nga pagpatahom: sa sulod sang anom ka bulan banyusan niya ang iya lawas sang lana sang mira, kag sa sulod sang anom pa gid ka bulan butangan niya ang iya lawas sang mga pahamot kag sang iban pa nga klase sang mga pangpatahom.
Kag antes siya magkadto sa hari, hatagan siya sang bisan ano nga bayo kag alahas nga gusto niya nga isul-ob sa pag-atubang sa hari.
Magakadto siya sa hari sa gab-i, kag pagkaaga dal-on siya sa lain nga elistaran nga sa diin nagaestar ang mga asawa sang hari. Ginaatipan sila ni Shaashgaz, ang opisyal sang hari nga gintugyanan sa pag-atipan sang mga asawa sang hari. Wala sing bisan sin-o sa ila nga makabalik sa hari luwas lang kon gusto siya sang hari kag ipatawag niya siya.
Nagustuhan sang hari si Ester labaw sa tanan nga babayi nga gindala sa iya nga gindala sa iya . Nalipay gid siya sa iya, kag gintratar niya siya sing maayo. Ginkoronahan niya siya kag ginhimo nga rayna sa baylo ni Vashti.
Naghiwat dayon sang dako nga punsyon ang hari para padunggan si Ester. Gin-imbitar niya ang tanan niya nga mga opisyal kag ang iban pa niya nga mga alagad. Kag gindeklarar niya sa bilog nga ginharian nga magpahuway ang mga tawo sa sadto nga adlaw. Kag sa iya kaalwan, nagpanghatag siya sang regalo sa mga tawo.
Sang ikaduha nga pagtipon sang mga dalaga, si Mordecai isa na ka opisyal nga isa na ka opisyal nga nakapuwesto sa puwertahan sang palasyo.
Gani nagsiling sa iya ang iya personal nga mga alagad, “Mahal nga Hari, ngaa indi ka magpapangita sang guwapa kag bataon nga mga dalaga?
Wala pa gid sadto nagpanugid si Ester nga Judio siya, pareho sang ginbilin sa iya ni Mordecai. Ginatuman gihapon ni Ester si Mordecai pareho sang iya ginahimo sadto sang ginaatipan pa siya ni Mordecai.
Sang sadto nga tion nga si Mordecai isa na ka opisyal nga isa na ka opisyal nga nakapuwesto sa puwertahan sang palasyo, may duha ka opisyal sang hari nga ang ila ngalan amo ang ila ngalan amo si Bigtana
Pero nahibaluan ni Mordecai ang ila plano, gani ginsugid niya ini kay Rayna Ester. Dayon ginsugid man ini ni Ester sa hari kag ginpahibalo nga si Mordecai ang nakadiskobre sini.
Ginpaimbistigar ini sang hari. Kag sang napamatud-an nga matuod gid man, ginpabitay
Magpili ka sang mga opisyal sa kada probinsya nga sakop sang imo ginharian para magpangita sang guwapa kag bataon nga mga dalaga kag magdala sa ila sa elistaran sang mga babayi diri sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Susa. Ipaatipan mo ang mga dalaga kay Hegai nga imo mataas nga opisyal, nga gintugyanan mo nga mag-atipan sa mga babayi sa palasyo. Kag siya ang bahala nga maghatag sa ila sang ila mga kinahanglanon sa pagpatahom.
Dayon ang magustuhan mo nga dalaga amo ang ibulos mo kay Vashti bilang rayna.” Nagustuhan sang hari ang ginsiling sa iya, gani ginsunod niya ini.
Karon, may isa ka Judio nga nagaestar sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Susa; ang iya ngalan amo si Mordecai. Ang iya amay amo si Jair, kag ang iya lolo amo si Shimei nga anak ni Kish nga halin sa tribo ni Benjamin.
Isa siya sa mga ginbihag sa Babilonia sa Babilonia halin sa Jerusalem, kaupod ni Haring Jehoyakin
May pakaisa si Mordecai nga dalaga nga guwapa kag nami sing lawas. Ang iya ngalan amo si Hadasa nga ginatawag man nga Ester. Sang napatay ang mga ginikanan ni Ester, ginsapupo siya ni Mordecai kag ginpadako bilang iya anak.
Sang ginsugid ang mando sang hari parte sa guwapa nga mga dalaga parte sa guwapa nga mga dalaga , madamo nga dalaga ang gindala sa palasyo sang hari didto sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Susa. Kag isa sa ila amo si Ester. Ginpaatipan sila kay Hegai nga gintugyanan sa pag-atipan sa mga babayi sa palasyo.
Nanamian si Hegai kay Ester, kag maayo ang pagtratar niya sa iya. Ginhatagan niya dayon si Ester sang pagkaon kag mga kinahanglanon sa pagpatahom. Ginhatagan man niya siya sang pito ka suluguon nga babayi nga halin mismo sa palasyo sang hari, kag ginpaestar niya siya kag ang iya mga suluguon sa pinakamaayo nga kuwarto.
Sang ulihi ginpataas ni Haring Ahasuerus ang posisyon ni Haman nga anak ni Hamedata nga Agagnon.
Ginkuha dayon sang hari ang iya singsing nga pangmarka
Nagsiling ang hari sa iya, “Sa imo na lang ang imo nga kuwarta, pero himua ang gusto mo nga himuon sa mga Judio.”
Gani sang ika-13 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, ginpatawag ni Haman ang mga sekretaryo sang hari. Ginpahimo niya sila sang sulat para sa mga gobernador, mga pangulo, kag mga opisyal sang tagsa ka probinsya sang ginharian, sa ila nga mga lingguahe. Ginpahimo ang sulat sa ngalan ni Haring Ahasuerus, kag ginmarkahan sang iya singsing.
Ginpadala ini sa tanan nga probinsya sang ginharian paagi sa mga mensahero. Nagamando sa sini nga sulat nga pamatyon gid sa isa lang ka adlaw ang tanan nga Judio, bata man ukon tigulang, pati mga babayi kag mga kabataan, kag kuhaon ang tanan nila nga pagkabutang. Himuon ini sa ika-13 nga adlaw sang ika-12 nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Adar.
Ang tanan nga opisyal sang hari nga nakapuwesto sa puwertahan sang palasyo nagaluhod kay Haman bilang pagtahod sa iya, suno sa sugo sang hari. Pero si Mordecai iya wala nagaluhod.
Ginpamangkot siya sang iban nga mga opisyal kon ngaa wala siya nagatuman sa sugo sang hari.
Nagsabat siya nga isa siya ka Judio.
Sang mahibaluan ni Haman nga indi magluhod si Mordecai sa pagtahod sa iya, nangakig gid siya.
Kag sang mahibaluan pa gid niya nga isa ka Judio si Mordecai, nagplano siya nga indi lang si Mordecai ang iya ipapatay kundi pati man ang tanan nga Judio sa bilog nga ginharian ni Haring Ahasuerus.
Sang nahauna nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Nisan, sadtong ika-12 nga tuig sang paghari ni Ahasuerus, nagsugo si Haman nga maggabot-gabot para mahibaluan kon ano ang husto nga adlaw kag bulan sa pagtuman sang iya plano. (Ang butang nga ginagamit nila sa paggabot-gabot ginatawag nga “pur.”) Ang nagabutan amo ang ika-13 nga adlaw ika-13 nga adlaw
Karon, nagsiling si Haman kay Haring Ahasuerus, “May isa ka lahi sang katawhan nga nagaestar sa nagkalain-lain nga probinsya sang imo ginharian kag may kaugalingon sila nga kasuguan nga lain sang sa iban nga mga katawhan. Wala sila nagatuman sang imo mga kasuguan kag indi maayo para sa imo, Mahal nga Hari, nga pabay-an lang sila.
Kon gusto mo, Mahal nga Hari, magmando ka nga pamatyon sila. Kag magahatag ako sing 350 ka tonelada nga pilak sa mga administrador sang imo ginharian, para ibutang nila ini sa talaguan sang manggad sang ginharian.”
Sang mahibaluan ni Mordecai ang ginaplano kontra sa ila, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo . Dayon nagsuksok siya sang sako, nagbutang sang abo sa iya ulo, kag nagsulod sa siyudad nga nagahilibion sing tudo gid.
Dayon ginpabalik ni Ester si Hatac kay Mordecai kag ginpasiling ini:
“Nahibaluan sang tanan nga opisyal sang hari kag sang tanan nga tawo sa bilog nga ginharian nga ang bisan sin-o nga magpalapit sa hari sa sulod nga ugsaran, lalaki man ukon babayi, nga wala ginpatawag pagapatyon, luwas lang kon untayon sang hari ang iya bulawan nga bulobaston sa sina nga tawo. Kag ako mismo isa na ka bulan nga wala ginpatawag sang hari.”
Sang ginsugiran si Mordecai sang ginpasiling ni Ester,
amo ini ang sabat nga ginpasiling niya: “Indi ka maghunahuna nga ikaw lang ang maluwas sa tanan nga Judio tungod kay dira ka nagaestar sa palasyo.
Kay bisan maghipos-hipos ka lang sa sini nga tion, may iban nga magbulig kag magluwas sa mga Judio, pero ikaw ya kag ang imo mga paryente malaglag. Pero basi pa lang nahimo ka nga rayna para maluwas mo ang imo kapareho nga mga Judio.”
Amo ini ang ginpasiling ni Ester kay Mordecai,
“Lakat ka, kag tipuna ang tanan nga Judio diri sa Susa kag magpuasa kamo para sa akon. Indi kamo magkaon ukon mag-inom adlaw-gab-i, sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw. Mapuasa man ako kag ang akon mga suluguon nga babayi. Pagkatapos makadto ako sa hari bisan pa nga kontra ini sa kasuguan. Bahala na kon patyon ako.”
Gani naglakat si Mordecai kag gintuman niya ang tanan nga ginsiling ni Ester.
Pero hasta lang siya sa guwa sang puwertahan sang palasyo tungod kay wala sing bisan sin-o nga ginatugutan nga magsulod sa palasyo nga nagasuksok sang sako.
Ang mga Judio sa kada probinsya nga nakabati sang mando sang hari naghilibion sing tudo gid. Nagpuasa sila kag naghinibi nga nagapanalambiton. Madamo sa ila ang nagsuksok sang sako kag naghigda sa abo.
Sang ginsugiran si Ester sang iya mga suluguon nga babayi kag sang mga opisyal nga nagaatipan sa iya parte kay Mordecai, natublag gid siya. Gani ginpadal-an niya sang bayo si Mordecai para ilisan ang sako nga iya ginasuksok. Pero wala ini ginbaton ni Mordecai.
Tungod sadto, ginpatawag ni Ester si Hatac, nga isa sa mga opisyal sang hari nga gintugyanan sa pag-atipan sa iya. Ginsugo niya siya nga hibaluon kon ano ang problema ni Mordecai ngaa nagaamo siya sina.
Gani ginkadtuan ni Hatac si Mordecai sa may plasa sang siyudad, sa atubangan sang puwertahan sang palasyo.
Ginsugid ni Mordecai sa iya ang tanan nga natabo kag kon pila nga kuwarta ang ginpromisa ni Haman nga ihatag sa talaguan sang manggad sang ginharian, sa paglaglag sa mga Judio.
Ginhatagan siya ni Mordecai sang isa ka kopya sang mando sang hari nga ginsugid sa Susa, para ipakita kay Ester. Ginsilingan man siya ni Mordecai nga ipaathag kay Ester ang tanan nga natabo kag pangabayon si Ester nga magkadto sa hari sa pagpakitluoy nga kaluy-an ang iya mga kasimanwa.
Nagbalik si Hatac kay Ester kag ginsugid niya ang tanan nga ginsiling ni Mordecai.
Sang ikatatlo nga adlaw, nagsuksok si Ester sang iya bayo nga pangrayna kag nagtindog sa sulod nga ugsaran sang palasyo, sa atubangan sang trono sang hari. Nagapungko sadto ang hari sa iya trono nga nagaatubang sa puwertahan.
Pag-abot niya sa ila, ginpatawag niya ang iya asawa nga si Zeresh kag ang iya mga abyan.
Ginpahambog niya sa ila ang iya madamo nga manggad kag kabataan, kag ang tanan nga pagpadungog sa iya sang hari kag ang paghatag sa iya sang mataas nga posisyon nga labaw sa tanan nga opisyal kag sa iban pa nga mga alagad sang hari.
Nagsiling pa siya, “Indi lang ina, kundi ako lang ang gin-imbitar ni Rayna Ester nga makaupod sa hari sa panyapon nga ginpreparar niya. Kag sa liwat gin-imbitar naman niya ako nga magpanyapon buwas kaupod sang hari.
Pero ini tanan indi gid makalipay sa akon kon makita ko pa gihapon inang Judio nga si Mordecai nga nagapungko sa may puwertahan sang palasyo.”
Nagsiling sa iya ang iya asawa kag mga abyan, “Ngaa indi ka magpahimo sang bilitayan nga mga 75 feet ang kataason. Kag buwas sa aga pangabaya ang hari nga ipabitay si Mordecai, para malipayon ka nga mag-upod sa hari sa panyapon.” Nagustuhan ato ni Haman, gani nagpahimo siya sang bilitayan.
Sang nakita sang hari si Ester, nalipay siya sa iya, kag gin-untay niya ang iya bulawan nga bulobaston kay Ester. Nagpalapit si Ester kag gintandog ang punta sang bulobaston.
Nagpamangkot ang hari sa iya, “Ano ang kinahanglan mo, Mahal nga Rayna? Isiling lang kay ihatag ko sa imo bisan ang katunga pa sang akon ginharian.”
Nagsabat si Ester, “Kon gusto mo, Mahal nga Hari, magkadto kamo karon ni Haman sa panyapon nga ginpreparar ko para sa inyo.”
Gani nagkadto ang hari kag si Haman sa panyapon nga ginpreparar ni Ester.
Kag samtang nagaininom sila sang bino, nagpamangkot ang hari kay Ester, “Ano gid bala ang kinahanglan mo? Isiling lang kay ihatag ko sa imo bisan ang katunga pa sang akon ginharian.”
Nagsabat si Ester, “Amo ini ang akon pangabay:
Kon matuod nga maayo ka sa akon kag nalipay ka sa paghatag sang akon pangayuon, ginaimbitar ko kamo liwat ni Haman sa panyapon buwas nga ipreparar ko sa inyo. Kag dayon isiling ko ang akon pangabay sa imo.”
Sang sina nga adlaw, malipayon si Haman nga nagguwa sa palasyo. Pero nangakig gid siya sang makita niya si Mordecai sa puwertahan sang palasyo nga wala man lang nagtindog ukon nagpakita sang pagtahod sa iya.
Sadto nga gab-i, indi makatulog si Haring Ahasuerus, gani ginpakuha niya ang libro sang kasaysayan sang iya ginharian kag ginbasa ini sa iya.
Nagsiling ang hari kay Haman, “Sige, kuhaa gilayon ang akon bayo kag kabayo, kag himua ang tanan nga ginsiling mo kay Mordecai, ang Judio nga nagapungko sa may puwertahan sang akon palasyo. Siguraduhon mo nga matuman ang tanan nga ginsiling mo.”
Gani ginkuha ni Haman ang bayo kag ang kabayo, kag ginsuksukan niya si Mordecai kag ginpasakay sa kabayo. Dayon ginlibot niya siya sa siyudad samtang nagasinggit siya nga, “Amo ini ang ginahimo sa tawo nga ginakalipay sang hari nga padunggan.”
Pagkatapos nagbalik si Mordecai sa may puwertahan sang palasyo. Pero si Haman iya nagdali-dali puli nga nagapanabon sang iya guya tungod sa puwerte nga kahuya.
Dayon ginsugid niya sa iya asawa nga si Zeresh kag sa iya mga abyan ang tanan nga natabo. Nagsiling sa iya ang iya asawa kag ang iya mga abyan nga iya mga abyan nga iya mga manuglaygay, “Amat-amat ka na nga nagakapierdi kay Mordecai. Indi ka makadaog sa iya tungod kay isa siya ka Judio. Sigurado gid nga mapierdi ka sa iya.”
Samtang nagaestoryahanay pa sila, nag-abot ang mga opisyal sang hari kag gindali-dali nila dala si Haman sa panyapon nga ginpreparar ni Ester.
Nabasahan sa sini nga libro ang parte sa pagsugid ni Mordecai sang plano nila ni Bigtana kag Teresh nga pagpatay kay Haring Ahasuerus. Ining si Bigtana kag si Teresh mga opisyal sang hari nga nagaguwardya sadto sa puwertahan sang iya kuwarto.
Nagpamangkot ang hari, “Ano ang ginbalos ukon ginpadungog kay Mordecai tungod sining iya maayo nga ginhimo sa akon?” Nagsabat ang mga suluguon, “Wala gid, Mahal nga Hari Mahal nga Hari .”
Sa sina mismo nga tion nagapasulod si Haman sa ugsaran sang palasyo sa pagpangabay sa hari nga bitayon si Mordecai sa bilitayan nga iya ginpahimo para kay Mordecai. Nagpamangkot ang hari, “Sin-o inang nagatindog sa ugsaran?”
Nagsabat ang mga suluguon, “Si Haman.” Dayon nagsiling ang hari, “Pasudla ninyo siya diri.”
Sang pagsulod ni Haman, nagpamangkot ang hari sa iya, “Ano ang maayo nga himuon ko sa tawo nga ginakalipay ko nga padunggan?” Abi ni Haman siya ang ginatumod sang hari,
gani nagsiling siya, “Amo ini, Mahal nga Hari, ang imo himuon:
Ipakuha ang isa sang imo harianon nga bayo nga nasuksok mo na, kag ang isa ka kabayo nga nasakyan mo na, nga may korokorona sa iya ulo.
Dayon sugua ang isa sang imo opisyal nga may mataas nga posisyon nga pasuksukan niya ang amo nga tawo sang harianon nga bayo kag pasakyon sa imo kabayo, kag dayon ilibot niya sa siyudad. Kag samtang nagalibot sila magsinggit ang mga nagaupod sa ila nga, ‘Amo ini ang ginahimo sa tawo nga ginakalipay sang hari nga padunggan.’ ”
Nagpanyapon si Haring Ahasuerus kag si Haman upod kay Rayna Ester.
Gani ginbitay nila si Haman sa bilitayan nga ginpahimo niya para kuntani kay Mordecai. Dayon nadula ang kaakig sang hari.
Kag samtang nagaininom sila sa sinang ikaduha nga panyapon, nagpamangkot liwat ang hari kay Rayna Ester, “Ano gid bala ang imo kinahanglan? Isiling lang kay ihatag ko sa imo bisan ang katunga pa sang akon ginharian.”
Nagsabat si Rayna Ester, “Kon matuod nga maayo ka sa akon kag nalipay ka sa akon, Mahal nga Hari, luwasa ako kag ang akon mga kasimanwa. Amo ini ang akon ginapangayo sa imo.
Kay may premyo nga ginapromisa sa kay bisan sin-o nga magpatay sa amon. Kon ginbaligya lang kami bilang mga ulipon, indi ko na ikaw pagtublagon pa tungod kay indi gid man ina importante para sa imo para disturbuhon ka pa.”
Nagsabat si Haring Ahasuerus sa iya, “Sin-o ang nangahas sa paghimo sina kag diin siya subong?”
Puwerte ang kulba ni Haman sa atubangan sang hari kag sang rayna.
Nagtindog dayon ang hari sa puwerte nga kaakig. Ginbayaan niya ang iya ilimnon kag nagkadto sa hardin sang palasyo. Pero nagpabilin si Haman kag nagpakitluoy kay Rayna Ester tungod kay nahibaluan niya nga desidido ang hari nga silutan siya.
Pagkatapos lang gid hambal sang hari, gintabunan sang mga suluguon ang ulo
Dayon nagmando ang hari, “Bitaya ninyo didto si Haman!”
Sa sina mismo nga adlaw, ginhatag ni Haring Ahasuerus kay Rayna Ester ang tanan nga pagkabutang ni Haman, ang kaaway sang mga Judio. Dayon ginpakadto si Mordecai sa hari tungod kay ginsugid ni Ester nga magparyentihanay sila.
Ginpasulat ini ni Mordecai sa ngalan ni Haring Ahasuerus, kag ginmarkahan sang singsing sang hari. Pagkatapos ginpadala dayon niya sa mga mensahero nga nagasakay sa madasig nga mga kabayo sang hari.
Paagi sa ato nga sulat, gintugutan ni Haring Ahasuerus ang mga Judio sa kada siyudad nga mag-ugyon sa pagdepensa sang ila kaugalingon. Puwede nila patyon ang bisan sin-o nga magsalakay sa ila halin sa bisan ano nga nasyon ukon probinsya, pati ang ila sini mga babayi kag mga kabataan.
Himuon ini sang mga Judio sa tanan nga probinsya nga sakop sang ginharian ni Haring Ahasuerus sa sulod lang sang isa ka adlaw, sa ika-13 nga adlaw sang ika-12 nga bulan nga amo ang bulan sang Adar.
Ini nga sulat ipadala sa kada probinsya bilang isa ka sugo, kag ipahayag sa tanan nga tawo, para makapreparar ang mga Judio sa pagbalos sa ila mga kaaway sa sina nga adlaw.
Gani sa sugo sang hari, naghalin ang mga mensahero nga nagasakay sa madasig nga mga kabayo sang hari. Ginpahibalo man ang mando sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Susa.
Nagguwa si Mordecai sa palasyo nga nagabayo sang harianon nga bayo nga asol kag puti, kag pangguwa nga bayo nga hinimo halin sa maayo nga klase nga linen nga granate. Kag may dako siya nga korona nga bulawan sa iya ulo. Naghinugyaw sa kalipay ang mga tawo sa siyudad sang Susa tungod sa sugo tungod sa sugo .
Nakahatag ini sang dako nga kalipay kag pagtahod sa mga Judio.
Sa kada siyudad ukon probinsya nga sa diin nakaabot ang sugo sang hari, ang mga Judio nagakalipay gid kag nagahiwat sang piesta sa pagselebrar. Kag madamo nga tawo ang nangin Judio tungod sang ila kahadlok sa mga Judio.
Ginhukas sang hari ang iya singsing nga pangmarka, nga iya ginbawi kay Haman, kag ginhatag kay Mordecai. Dayon ginhimo siya ni Ester nga manugdumala sang tanan nga pagkabutang ni Haman.
Sa liwat nagpangabay si Ester kay Haring Ahasuerus, nga nagaluhod sa iya tiilan kag nagahibi. Nagpakitluoy siya nga indi na lang pagdayunon ang malain nga plano ni Haman nga Agagnon kontra sa mga Judio.
Gin-untay sang hari ang iya bulawan nga bulobaston kay Ester. Dayon nagtindog si Ester sa atubangan sang hari kag nagsiling,
“Kon matuod nga maayo ka sa akon, Mahal nga Hari, kag nalipay ka sa akon, himua ini kon gusto mo kag kon husto para sa imo: Magpasulat ka sang isa ka sugo nga indi pagdayunon ang mando ni Haman nga anak ni Hamedata nga Agagnon. Ining mando nga ginpasulat ni Haman nagasiling nga pamatyon ang mga Judio sa bilog nga ginharian.
Indi ako makabatas nga makita nga magkalamatay ang akon mga kasimanwa kag mga paryente.”
Nagsiling si Haring Ahasuerus kay Rayna Ester kag kay Mordecai nga Judio, “Ginpabitay ko na si Haman tungod nga gintinguhaan niya nga laglagon kamo nga mga Judio. Kag ginhatag ko na sa imo, Ester, ang iya mga pagkabutang.
Karon, magsulat kamo sang isa ka sugo sa akon ngalan para sa mga Judio. Isulat ninyo kon ano ang maayo para sa inyo, kag markahi dayon ninyo sang akon singsing. Kay ang bisan ano nga kasulatan nga ginsulat sa ngalan sang hari kag ginmarkahan sang iya singsing indi na gid maliwat pa.”
Gani sang ika-23 nga adlaw sang ikatatlo nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Sivan, ginpatawag ang mga sekretaryo sang hari. Ginsulat nila ang tanan nga gindikta ni Mordecai sa ila. Ang sulat para sa mga Judio, mga gobernador, mga pangulo, kag mga opisyal sang 127 ka probinsya halin sa India hasta sa Ethiopia.
Karon, nag-abot na ang ika-13 nga adlaw sang ika-12 nga bulan, nga amo ang bulan sang Adar. Amo na ini ang adlaw nga himuon ang mando sang hari. Sa sini nga adlaw nagalaom ang mga kaaway sang mga Judio nga malaglag nila ang mga Judio. Pero suli ang natabo; ang mga kaaway amo ang napierdi sa mga Judio.
Sila amo ang napulo ka anak ni Haman nga kaaway sang mga Judio, nga anak ni Hamedata. Pero wala pagkuhaa sang mga Judio ang mga pagkabutang sang ila mga kaaway.
Sadto man nga adlaw, ginsugid sa hari ang kadamuon sang ginpamatay sa siyudad sang Susa.
Kag nagsiling ang hari kay Rayna Ester, “Sa Susa lang, 500 ang napatay sang mga Judio, kag ginpamatay man nila ang napulo ka anak ni Haman. Ano ayhan ang natabo sa iban nga mga probinsya? Karon, ano pa gid ang pangayuon mo kay ihatag ko sa imo.”
Nagsiling si Ester, “Kon gusto mo, Mahal nga Hari, tuguti ang mga Judio diri sa Susa sa pagdepensa liwat sang ila kaugalingon sa buwas, pareho sang ila ginhimo subong. Kag ipabitay sa kahoy ang mga bangkay sang napulo ka anak ni Haman.”
Gani nagsugo ang hari nga himuon ang pangabay ni Ester. Ginpahibalo sa Susa ang mando sang hari, kag ginpabitay ang mga bangkay sang napulo ka anak ni Haman.
Pagkaaga, ika-14 nga adlaw sang bulan sang Adar, nagtipon liwat ang mga Judio nga ara sa Susa, kag nakapatay sila sang 300 ka tawo. Pero wala nila pagkuhaa ang pagkabutang sang ila mga kaaway sang ila mga kaaway .
(Pero sa Susa ya, duha ka adlaw ang pagpamatay sang mga Judio sa ila mga kaaway, sang ika-13 kag sang ika-14 nga adlaw. Kag sang ika-15 nga adlaw, nagpahuway sila kag naghiwat man sang piesta nga may pagsinadya).
Amo ina nga ang mga Judio nga nagaestar sa mga baryo nagasaulog sang piesta kada ika-14 nga adlaw sang bulan sang Adar. Sa sina nga adlaw nagahinatagay sila sang regalo.
Kay sang sina nga adlaw, nagtilipon ang mga Judio sa mga lugar nga ila ginaestaran, sa tanan nga probinsya nga sakop ni Haring Ahasuerus, para pamatyon ang bisan sin-o nga magsalakay sa ila. Wala sing may makabato sa ila tungod kay nahadlok sa ila ang tanan nga tawo.
Ginsulat ni Mordecai ang tanan nga natabo, kag nagpadala siya sang sulat sa tanan nga Judio, malayo man ukon malapit, sa tanan nga probinsya nga sakop ni Haring Ahasuerus.
Sa sini nga sulat, ginhambalan ni Mordecai ang mga Judio nga saulugon nila kada tuig ang ika-14 kag ika-15 nga adlaw sang bulan sang Adar,
sa pagdumdom sang tion nga nakaluwas sila sa ila mga kaaway, kag ginbayluhan ang ila kasubo sang kalipay kag ang paghibi sang pagsinadya. Ginhambalan man sila ni Mordecai sa sulat nga saulugon nila ang piesta nga may pagsinadya, kag maghinatagay sila sang regalo,
Ginsunod sang mga Judio ang mando ni Mordecai nga padayunon nila ang pagsaulog sang amo nga piesta kada tuig.
Si Haman nga anak ni Hamedata nga Agagnon, nga kaaway sang tanan nga Judio, nagplano sa pagpatay sa mga Judio. Naggabot-gabot siya para mahibaluan niya kon san-o niya sila laglagon. Ang butang nga gin-gamit sa paggabot-gabot ginatawag nga “pur.”
Pero sang mabalitaan sang hari ang ato nga plano paagi kay Rayna Ester, nagpasulat siya sang mando nga ang malain nga plano ni Haman kontra sa mga Judio himuon sa iya. Kag ginbitay si Haman pati ang iya mga anak nga lalaki.
Gani ang pagsaulog sang sina nga tion ginatawag nga Purim,
nagsugtanay ang mga Judio nga saulugon nila sa husto nga tion kada tuig ang inang duha ka adlaw nga piesta nga piesta sa pamaagi nga ginsiling ni Mordecai. Nagdesisyon sila nga himuon nila ini kag sang ila mga kaliwat, kag sang tanan nga nangin Judio.
Ining duha ka adlaw sang Purim dumdumon kag saulugon sang kada pamilya sang mga Judio sa kada henerasyon, sa tanan nga probinsya kag siyudad sang ginharian sang ginharian . Indi nila ini pag-untatan ukon pagkalimtan, bisan sang ila mga kaliwat.
Agod mapabakod ang sulat ni Mordecai parte sa Purim, nagsulat man si Rayna Ester nga anak ni Abihail, parte sa sini nga piesta. Kaupod niya si Mordecai sa pagsulat sini.
Bisan gani ang tanan nga opisyal sang mga probinsya, pati ang ila mga gobernador, mga pangulo kag mga administrador, nagbulig sa mga Judio tungod kay nahadlok man sila kay Mordecai.
Ginpadala ini ni Mordecai sa 127 ka probinsya nga sakop sang ginharian ni Haring Ahasuerus. Nakahatag ini sang kalinong kag kabakod sa mga Judio,
kag nagasugo sa ila nga saulugon nila ang Purim sa husto nga tion, pareho sang ginmando ni Mordecai, nga ginmando man ni Rayna Ester. Sundon nila ini, subong nga ginasunod nila kag sang ila mga kaliwat ang pagsulundan parte sa pagpuasa kag pagpangasubo.
Ang mando ni Ester nga nagpabakod sa mga pagsulundan parte sa Purim ginsulat sa libro.
Kay si Mordecai isa na ka gamhanan nga tawo sa palasyo sang hari; bantog na siya sa bilog nga ginharian. Kag nagdugang pa gid ang iya pagkagamhanan.
Gani ginpamatay sang mga Judio ang tanan nila nga kaaway paagi sa espada. Ginhimo nila ang ila gusto sa sining mga nagakontra sa ila.
Sa siyudad lang sang Susa, 500 ang ila napatay.
Ginpatay man nila sila ni Parshandata, Dalfon, Aspata,
Porata, Adalia, Aridata,
Parmashta, Arisai, Aridai, kag Vayzata.
Ginpabayad ni Haring Ahasuerus sang buhis ang tanan nga tawo sa iya ginharian, bisan atong mga nagaestar sa mga isla.
Ang tanan nga gamhanan nga binuhatan ni Haring Ahasuerus nasulat sa Libro sang Kasaysayan sang mga Hari sang Media kag Persia. Nasulat man diri ang kabug-usan sang estorya sang pagkabantog ni Mordecai, nga ginhatagan sang hari sang mataas nga posisyon.
Siya na ang ikaduha sa kay Haring Ahasuerus. Bantog gid siya sa iya kapareho nga mga Judio, kag ginatahod nila siya kay nagahimo siya sang mga butang nga para sa kaayuhan sang iya mga kasimanwa, kag nagapakighambal siya sa hari sa hari para sa ila.
May isa ka tawo nga nagaestar sa duta sang Uz nga ang iya ngalan si Job. Matarong kag wala sing kasawayan ang iya kabuhi. Nagatahod siya sa Dios kag nagalikaw sa paghimo sang malain.
Ginaprotektaran mo siya kag ang iya panimalay, pati ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang. Ginapakamaayo mo ang tanan niya nga ginahimo, gani nagdamo ang iya kasapatan sa bilog nga bilog nga duta.
Pero kuhaa bala ang tanan nga ara sa iya, kag sigurado gid nga pakamalauton ka niya.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Satanas, “Sige, kuhaa ang tanan nga ara sa iya, pero indi lang siya pag-anha.” Gani naghalin si Satanas sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Isa ka adlaw, samtang nagapunsyon ang mga anak ni Job sa balay sang kamagulangan nila nga utod,
may nag-abot nga isa ka tawo kay Job kag nagbalita, “Samtang ginaarado namon ang imo mga baka kag nagahalab ang imo mga donkey nga babayi sa unhan lang,
gulpi lang nga ginsalakay kami sang mga Sabeanhon. Ginpangdala nila ang mga sapat, kag ginpamatay ang imo mga suluguon. Ako lang gid ang nakapalagyo sa pagsugid sa imo.”
Samtang nagahambal pa ang tawo, nag-abot ang isa naman ka tawo kag nagbalita, “Naigo sang kilat ang imo mga karnero kag ang mga manugbantay sini, kag nasunog sila. Ako lang gid ang nakapalagyo sa pagsugid sa imo.”
Samtang nagahambal pa ang tawo, nag-abot ang isa pa ka tawo kag nagbalita, “Ginsalakay kami sang tatlo ka grupo sang mga Kaldeanhon. Ginpamatay nila ang kaupod ko nga mga suluguon kag ginpangdala ang imo mga camel. Ako lang gid ang nakapalagyo sa pagsugid sa imo.”
Samtang nagahambal pa ang tawo, nag-abot pa gid ang isa ka tawo kag nagbalita, “Samtang nagapunsyon ang imo mga anak didto sa balay sang ila kamagulangan nga utod,
gulpi lang nag-abot ang mabaskog nga hangin halin sa desierto, kag nawasak ang bilog nga balay. Narumpagan ang imo mga anak kag nagkalamatay sila. Ako lang gid ang nakapalagyo sa pagsugid sa imo.”
May pito siya ka anak nga lalaki kag tatlo ka babayi.
Pagkabati sadto ni Job, Pagkabati sadto ni Job, nagtindog siya kag gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo . Dayon ginpakiskisan niya ang iya ulo kag naghapa siya sa duta sa pagsimba sa Ginoo sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling siya, “Natawo ako nga wala sing dala kag mapatay man ako nga wala sing dala. Ang Ginoo Ginoo ang naghatag sang tanan nga ara sa akon sang tanan nga ara sa akon , kag siya man ang nagkuha sini sini . Dalayawon ang ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo !”
Sa pihak sang tanan nga natabo, wala makasala si Job paagi sa pagbasol sa Dios.
May 7,000 siya ka karnero, 3,000 ka camel, 500 ka paris sang mga baka, kag 500 ka donkey nga babayi. May madamo man siya nga mga suluguon. Siya ang pinakamanggaranon sa tanan nga tawo sa east sang Israel sang Israel .
Kinabatasan na sang iya mga anak nga lalaki ang pagbulos-bulos hiwat sang punsyon sa ila mga balay kag ginaimbitar nila ang ila tatlo ka utod nga babayi sa pagtambong.
Kada tapos sang punsyon, nagahalad gid si Job para matinluan ang iya mga anak. Aga pa siya nagabugtaw kag nagahalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog para sa tagsa niya ka anak kay nagahunahuna siya nga basi nakasala ang iya mga anak kag nakahambal sang malain kontra sa Dios sa ila tagipusuon. Amo ina permi ang ginahimo ni Job.
Isa ka adlaw, nagtipon ang mga anghel
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Satanas, “Diin ka naghalin?” Nagsabat si Satanas sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Naglibot-libot sa kalibutan.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Natalupangdan mo bala ang akon alagad nga si Job? Wala sing pareho sa iya sa kalibutan. Matarong kag wala sing kasawayan ang iya kabuhi. Nagatahod siya sa akon kag nagalikaw sa paghimo sang malain.”
Nagsabat si Satanas, “Ginatahod ka lang niya tungod kay ginapakamaayo mo siya.
Isa ka adlaw, nagtipon naman ang mga anghel
Sa pihak sang natabo sa iya, wala makasala si Job paagi sa paghambal sing malain.
May tatlo ka abyan si Job nga sila ni Elifaz nga taga-Teman, Bildad nga taga-Shua, kag Zofar nga taga-Naama. Sang mabatian nila ang tanan nga kalisod nga nag-abot kay Job, nagsugtanay sila nga kadtuan siya para ugyunan sa iya nga kasubo kag lipayon.
Sang medyo malayo pa sila, nakita na nila si Job, kag daw indi nila siya halos makilala. Naghibi sila sing tudo kag gin-gisi nila ang ila mga bayo kag ginwisikan sang yab-ok ang ila mga ulo sa pagpakita sang ila kasubo sa pagpakita sang ila kasubo .
Dayon nagpungko sila sa duta upod kay Job sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw kag pito ka gab-i. Wala gid sila naghambal sa iya tungod nakita nila kon daw ano gid ang iya pag-antos.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, “Natalupangdan mo bala ang akon alagad nga si Job? Wala sing pareho sa iya sa kalibutan. Matarong kag wala sing kasawayan ang iya kabuhi. Nagatahod siya sa akon kag nagalikaw sa paghimo sang malain. Kag nagpabilin gihapon siya nga matutom sa akon bisan gin-ganyat mo ako nga tugutan ka nga tugutan ka sa paghalit sa iya sa wala sing rason.”
Nagsabat si Satanas, “Batunon sang tawo nga madula ang tanan sa iya basta buhi lang siya.
Pero siya bala mismo ang haliti kag sigurado gid nga pakamalauton ka niya.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Satanas, “Sige, himua ang gusto mo nga himuon sa iya, pero indi lang siya pagpatya.”
Gani naghalin si Satanas sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginhalitan niya si Job paagi sa mga hubag nga nagtubo halin sa iya dapadapa hasta sa ulo.
Nagkuha si Job sang buka nga kolon kag ginkagis ang iya panit samtang nagapungko siya sa abo.
Nagsiling ang iya asawa sa iya, “Matutom ka pa gihapon sa Dios? Pakamalauta siya para mapatay ka na!”
Sang ulihi naghambal si Job kag ginpakamalaot niya ang adlaw sang iya pagkatawo.
para indi ko maeksperiensyahan ini nga mga ini nga mga kalisod.
“Maayo pa kuntani nga napatay na lang ako sa tiyan sang akon iloy.
Ngaa bala ginsabak pa ako sang akon iloy sang akon iloy kag ginpatiti?
nga nagakatulog kag nagapahuway
upod sa mga hari kag mga pangulo sang kalibutan nga nagpatindog sang mga palasyo
nga ang ila mga balay puno sang bulawan kag pilak.
nga napatay sa ila pagkatawo kag ginlubong, nga wala na makakita sang kasanag.
kag ang mga kapoy nagapahuway na.
kag indi na nila mabatian ang singgit sang mga tawo nga nagapilit sa ila sa pag-obra.
Kag ang mga ulipon hilway na didto sa ila mga agalon.
“Ngaa ginatugutan pa nga mabuhi ang tawo nga nagaantos kag nagasakit ang ila buot?
Ginapangita nila ang kamatayon nga sobra pa sa pagpangita sang tawo sang manggad nga natago.
Malipayon lang sila kon patay na sila kag malubong na.
Ginbuot sang Dios nga indi niya mahibaluan ang iya palaabuton.
Indi ako makakaon sa sobra nga pagpangasubo, kag wala nagauntat ang akon pag-ugayong.
Ang ginakahadlukan ko natabo sa akon.
Kag wala ako sing kapahuwayan kundi kagamo lang.”
“Ginapakamalaot ko ang adlaw sang akon pagkatawo.
Wala na kuntani ina gindumdom pa sang Dios nga ara sa langit.
kag ginlikupan na lang kuntani sang kadulom ang iya kasanag.
kag wala na lang kuntani ina ginlakip sa kalendaryo.
kag wala na kuntani sing may nagkinalipay sadto nga tion.
nga kahibalo magpukaw sa dragon nga dragon nga Leviatan.
kag wala na kuntani mag-aga.
Dayon nagsabat si Elifaz nga taga-Teman,
bingawon gihapon sang Dios ang ila mga ngipon.
kag ang ila mga anak magalalapta.
“May ginsugid sa akon sa sekreto. Ginhutik ini sa akon
samtang nagatulog sing mahamuok ang mga tawo.
Hinadlukan ako kag nagkurog ang bilog ko nga lawas.
kag nagpalanindog ang akon mga balahibo.
Dayon may nabatian ako nga mahinay nga tingog nga nagasiling,
May tawo bala nga matinlo sa atubangan sang iya Manunuga?
kag makakita siya sang sala sa ila,
ano pa ayhan sa mga tawo nga hinimo lang halin sa duta, nga madali lang dugmukon pareho sa sapat-sapat!
Indi mahimo nga maghipos lang ako.
Indi na sila makita hasta san-o.
Napatay sila nga kulang sing kaalam.’
Ginpabakod mo ang mga tawo nga maluya.
Ang imo mga pulong nakapabakod sa nagakaluya kag nagakatumba.
nagakaluya ka kag nagakatublag.
may pagsalig ka kag paglaom?
May tawo bala nga inosente ukon matarong nga nalaglag?
kalautan kag kagamo man ang iya dangatan.
Sa iya kaakig, nagakawala sila.
Bisan ang mga anghel
Nagapadala siya sang ulan sa kalibutan kag ginapatubigan niya ang mga uma.
Ginapataas niya ang mga kubos, kag ginaluwas ang mga nagakalisod.
Ginaguba niya ang mga plano sang madaya nga mga tawo, para indi sila magmadinalag-on.
kag ginatapna niya ang padihot sang mga dayaon.
Ginadulman sila bisan adlaw, kag nagapangapkap sila nga daw gab-i bisan udtong-adlaw.
Ginaluwas sang Dios ang mga imol sa kamatayon kag sa gamhanan nga mga tawo nga nagadaogdaog sa ila.
Gani may paglaom ang mga imol, pero ang mga malain ginatapna sang Dios.
Gani indi pagpakalaina ang pagdisiplina sang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios sa imo.
ang iya ginasakit, iya man ginaayo.
Permi niya ikaw luwason sa kalamidad kag katalagman.
Ang kaakig kag kaimon nagapatay sa buang-buang nga tawo, nga wala sing kaalam.
Luwason niya ikaw sa kamatayon sa tion sang gutom ukon inaway.
kag wala ka sing kahadlukan kon mag-abot ang kalaglagan.
Kadlawan mo lang ang kalaglagan kag gutom, kag indi ka mahadlok sa talunon nga mga sapat,
kay indi na ini mag-ano sa imo. Kag indi ka na mabudlayan magtanom sa imo batuhon nga uma.
Makasiguro ka nga maayo ang kahimtangan sang imo panimalay, kag wala sing may madula sa imo kasapatan.
Magadamo ang imo mga kaliwat pareho kadamo sang hilamon sa duta.
Magakabuhi ka sing malawig, kag indi ka mapatay sa indi pa husto nga tion.
“Suno sa amon pag-usisa, matuod gid ini tanan. Gani pamatii ini kag iaplikar sa imo kabuhi.”
pero gulpi lang nga pakamalauton sang Dios ang iya panimalay.
Ang iya mga anak wala sing makadtuan nga makabulig sa ila,
Kag ang iya manggad ginapanguha sang mga tawo nga uhaw sa mga pagkabutang sa mga pagkabutang .
Ang kalisod kag kabudlayan wala nagatubo sa duta.
pareho nga ang pisik sang kalayo nagalupad paibabaw.
“Kon ako sa imo, madangop ako sa Dios kag ipresentar ko ang akon kahimtangan sa iya.
Kay Kay nagahimo siya sang makatilingala nga mga butang kag mga milagro nga indi matungkad kag indi maisip.
Dayon nagsabat si Job,
kay sa pihak sang akon mga pag-antos wala ko gid ginsikway ang mga pulong sang Balaan nga Dios nga Dios .
Wala na man ako sing may ginalauman pa, ngaa magpadayon pa ako sa pagkabuhi?
Saway bala ang akon lawas? Indi! Indi!
Wala na ako sing tsansa nga magmadinalag-on pa.
bisan sa inyo pagtan-aw sa inyo pagtan-aw ginsikway ko ang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios .
pareho kamo sa ililigan sang tubig nga nagaawas
kon mapun-an sang natunaw nga yelo kag snow,
kag nagamala sa tion sang tig-ilinit.
gani pag-abot nila sa desierto nagakalamatay sila.
nga nagapanglakaton nagalaom nga makainom sila sa sapa,
“Kon makilo lang ang akon mga pag-antos kag mga kalisod,
pero pag-abot nila wala gali.
Hinadlukan kamo sang makita ninyo ang akon makahaladlok nga kahimtangan.
Nagpangabay bala ako sa inyo nga buligan ninyo ako halin sa inyo manggad,
ukon luwason ninyo ako sa kamot sang mapintas nga mga kaaway?
Paintiendiha ninyo ako, diin bala ako nakasala?
Pero ang inyo ginaakusar sa akon indi matuod, kag indi ninyo mapamatud-an.
kay para sa inyo ang akon ginahambal bilang desperado nga tawo wala sing pulos.
Mahimo gani ninyo nga ipaulipon ang isa ka ilo ukon ibaligya ang isa ka abyan!
Tuluka ninyo ako! Mabutig bala ako sa inyo?
Untati na ninyo ang inyo pag-akusar sa akon, kay wala ako sing sala.
Amo ina kon ngaa nagahambal ako sang mga pulong nga wala ko ginahunahuna sing maayo.
Nagabutig bala ako? Indi bala ako makahibalo kon ano ang malain kag indi?
Ang makahaladlok nga mga pana sang Dios napuntirya sa akon.
Bisan gani ang donkey kag baka nagaima
labi na kon ang iya ginakaon puti sang itlog.
Bisan ako wala sing gana sa pagkaon sina.
Kuntani mabaton ko ang akon ginahandom.
Ang akon ginahandom amo nga patyon na lang ako kuntani sang Dios.
pareho kabudlay sa adlaw-adlaw nga obra sang isa ka trabahador,
kag malimtan na siya sang mga nakakilala sa iya.
Ihambal ko ang kalain sang akon buot.
Dragon bala ako sa dagat?
Kon gusto ko maghigda kag magpahuway para maghaganhagan ang akon kasakit
ginapahadlok mo ako paagi sa mga damgo kag palanan-awon.
Gani maayo pa nga makuga na lang ako kag mapatay sang sa mabuhi sa sining lawas nakon.
Pabay-i na lang ako, kay wala na sing pulos ang akon kabuhi.
“Ano gid bala ang tawo nga imo ginakabalak-an kag ginahatagan sang importansya?
Kay ginausisa mo siya kada adlaw, kag ginatilawan sa tanan nga tion.
Pabay-i lang bala ako bisan dali lang.
ukon pareho sa trabahador nga nagapaabot gid sang iya suweldo.
Mabug-at bala ako nga palas-anon sa imo?
Sa indi madugay mapatay na ako, kag bisan pangitaon mo ako, indi mo na ako makita pa.”
Bisan gab-i nagaantos ako.
Nagabulubaliswa lang ako hasta sang kaagahon.
Nagabuluswang ang akon mga hubag kag naganana.
Nagaligad ini nga mas madasig pa sa lansadera
kag indi na ako makaeksperiensya pa sang kalipay.
Kon mangita ka sa akon indi mo na ako makita.
ang nagakapatay indi na magbalik pa.
Dayon nagsabat si Bildad nga taga-Shua,
Pamatii sila, kay tudluan ka nila sang ila nahibaluan.
“Indi mabuhi ang tanom nga nagatubo sa tubig kon wala sing tubig.
Mapatay ini gilayon samtang nagatubo pa lang kag indi pa talapson.
Wala sing paglaom ang tawo nga indi diosnon.
Ang tanan nga ginasaligan niya matapok pareho sa lawa sang damang.
kon uyatan niya, nagakahukas.
Nagatubo ini sa katamnan
kag nagapanggamot sing maayo sa mga bato.
Pero kon magabot na ini, wala na sing may magsapak sini.
kag may magatubo naman nga tanom sa duta nga iya gintubuan.
Kagahod sa imo kag wala sing pulos ang imo mga ginahambal.
kag wala niya ginabuligan ang malain nga tawo.
Pakadlawon ka niya liwat, kag pahugyawon sa kalipay.
Pakahuy-an niya ang imo malain nga mga kaaway, kag laglagon ang ila mga panimalay.”
Indi puwede nga lubagon sang Makagagahom nga Dios ang hustisya ukon tikuon ang husto.
Nakasala ang imo mga anak sa Dios, gani dapat lang nga silutan niya sila.
Pero kon magdangop ka sa Makagagahom nga Dios kag magpakitluoy sa iya,
kag ibalik ang imo maayo nga kahimtangan.
mas dako gid kon ikomparar sa manggad mo sang una.
Hibalua kon ano ang natun-an
kag umalagi lamang kita sa kalibutan pareho sa landong nga wala nagadugay.
Nagahimo siya sang makatilingala nga mga butang kag mga milagro nga indi matungkad kag indi maisip.
Kon maglabay siya sa akon, indi ko siya makita kag mabatyagan.
Sin-o bala ang makareklamo sa iya ginahimo?
Bisan ang mga kabulig sang dragon nga si dragon nga si Rahab nagaluhod sa kahadlok sa iya.
Ano ang ihambal ko para makipagbais sa iya?
Ang mahimo ko lang amo ang pagpakitluoy sa Dios nga Dios nga akon Manughukom.
Bisan pangabayon ko siya nga mag-atubangay kami kag magsugot siya, indi gihapon niya ako pagpamatian.
kag ginadugangan niya ang akon mga kasakit sa wala sing rason.
Daw halos indi niya ako pagpaginhawaon sing maayo sa mga kasakit nga ginapaantos niya sa akon.
Kag kon sa akusaray, sin-o ang makaakusar sa iya?
Pero paano makapamatuod ang tawo nga inosente siya sa atubangan sang Dios?
tungod sang akon ginapanghambal sa pagdepensa sa akon kaugalingon sa pagdepensa sa akon kaugalingon .
Ginakaugtan ko ang akon kabuhi.
Kay amo man lang gihapon; pareho lang nga laglagon sang Dios ang matarong kag ang malain.
Nagakadlaw lang siya kon mapatay gulpi ang matarong sa kalamidad.
Kon indi siya ang nagahimo sini, ti sin-o pa abi?
Nagaligad ini nga wala gid sing kalipay.
pareho kadasig sang madasig nga sakayan ukon sang agila nga nagasibad.
Bisan indi na ako magreklamo kag untatan ko na ang pagpangasubo, kag magyuhom na ako,
Kay nahibaluan ko nga indi niya ako pagkabigon nga inosente.
ano pa ang pulos sa pagpaninguha ko nga depensahan ang akon kaugalingon?
kay sa isa ka libo nga pamangkot sang Dios bisan isa indi niya masabat.
Bisan pa habunan ko ang akon bilog nga lawas para mangin matinlo ako,
agod bisan ang akon bayo mangil-aran sa akon.
gani indi ako makabais sa iya kag makaakusar sa iya sa korte.
Kuntani may makapatunga sa amon nga duha sa paghusay sa amon.
Kag mapauntat niya ang paghanot sang Dios sa akon, para indi na ako mahadlok.
Dayon makahambal na ako sa iya nga wala sing kahadlok, pero sa karon indi ko pa ini mahimo.
Sin-o bala ang nagkontra sa iya kag nagmadinalag-on?
“Sa wala sing paandam, ginauyog niya ang mga bukid kag nagakalatiphag ini sa iya kaakig.
Ginapalinog niya ang duta halin sa pundasyon sini.
Sa iya lang pagmando, puwede nga indi magbutlak ang adlaw kag indi magsiga ang mga bituon.
Siya lang ang nagahumlad sang kalangitan, kag siya lang ang nagapauntat sang balod.
kag sang mga bituon sa south.
Magahambal ako sa kalain sang akon buot.
nga daw pareho sa keso nga naporma halin sa gatas.
Ginporma mo ako nga may mga tul-an kag mga ugat kag ginputos sang unod kag panit.
kag gintipigan mo man ang akon kabuhi.
Pero karon nahibaluan ko nga ang matuod mo nga plano sa akon
kag dayon indi mo ako pagpatawaron.
Kay nahuy-an gid ako kag natam-an sa akon mga pag-antos.
Ginapakita mo ang imo gahom kontra sa akon.
Wala sing untat ang imo pagsalakay sa akon.
Kuntani napatay na lang ako sa wala pa sing may nakakita sa akon.
kag pagkabun-ag ginlubong deretso.
kundi pahibalua ako kon ano ang imo akusasyon kontra sa akon.
gani pabay-i na lang ako agod sa bisan malip-ot lang nga tion malipay man ako
sa wala pa ako magkadto sa lugar nga masubo kag madulom, nga sa diin indi na ako makabalik diri.
kag wala didto sing kahusayan.’ ”
kag ginapaburan mo ang mga padihot sang mga malain?
Ang pagtan-aw mo bala pareho sa pagtan-aw sang tawo?
Pareho lang bala kalip-ot ang imo kabuhi sa tawo?
Ti, ngaa nagadali ka gid sa pagpangita sa akon sang sala?
pero sin-o ang makadepensa sa akon sa imo?
“ ‘Ikaw ang nagporma kag naghimo sa akon, kag karon laglagon mo ako?
kag karon ibalik mo na ako sa duta?
Dayon nagsabat si Zofar nga taga-Naama,
sin-o ang makapugong sa iya?
kag nakita niya ang ila kalautan.
subong nga imposible sa talunon nga donkey nga magbata sing tawo.
“ Job, Job, kon maghinulsol ka lang kag magdangop sa Dios,
kag indi ka na magpakasala kag indi mo pagtugutan ang imo panimalay sa pagpakasala,
sigurado gid nga indi ka na mahuya kag magakabuhi ka nga mabakod kag wala sing ginakahadlukan.
nga daw sa tubig lang ini nga naglabay.
Ang kadulom sang imo kabuhi magasanag pareho sa kaagahon.
Protektaran ka sang Dios sang Dios kag magapahuway nga wala sing ginakahadlukan.
kag madamo ang magapangayo sang bulig sa imo.
Indi mapamatud-an nga inosente ka paagi lang sa pagwakal.
kag ang ila lang paglaom amo ang kamatayon.”
Nagahunahuna ka bala nga indi ka namon pagsabdungon sa imo mga pagyaguta?
Nagasiling ka nga husto ang imo pagpati kag matinlo ka sa atubangan sang Dios.
Maayo kuntani nga maghambal ang Dios sa imo
Nahibaluan mo na bala nga ang silot sang Dios sa imo kulang pa sa nagakabagay sa imo?
Matungkad mo bala ang tanan parte sa Makagagahom nga Dios?
Ara sa iya kamot ang kabuhi ukon ang ginhawa sang tanan nga tinuga, pati sang tawo.
ang dulunggan sang tawo makahibalo man kon ano ang maayo ukon malain nga mga pulong.
kay samtang nagalawig ang iya kabuhi, nagadamo pa gid ang iya nahibaluan.
kag sa iya lang ang matuod nga matuod nga pag-intiendi kon ano ang dapat himuon.
kag wala sing may makahilway sa iya ginapriso.
kag kon pabay-an niya ang ulan, nagabaha kag nagakahalitan ang duta.
kag ara sa idalom sang iya gahom ang nagapangdaya kag ang ginadayaan.
kag ginapabuang niya ang mga manughukom.
Ginapahalin niya ang mga hari sa ila trono kag ginapabihag.
Ginakuha niya ang mga pari kag ang mga tawo sa ila gamhanan nga posisyon.
kag wala na sing may mabilin pa nga maalam kon mapatay na kamo.
kag ginakuha niya ang husto nga pag-intiendi sang mga tigulang.
kag ginakuhaan niya sang gahom ang gamhanan nga mga tawo.
kag ginapasanag ang madulom.
pero ginapierdi man niya ini kag ginalaglag.
kag ginapatalang-talang sila sa kamingawan.
Nagapangapkap sila sa madulom kag nagaduling-duling pareho sa hubog.
Nahibaluan ko man ining tanan nga inyo ginsiling.
kag bisan ginasabat sadto sang Dios ang akon mga pangamuyo.
ginainsulto sang mga tawo nga nagapatawhay-tawhay lang.
bisan ang ila ikasarang amo ang ila ginapakadios.
Kay tanan sila nakahibalo sining ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
kag naintiendihan ko ini.
Sigurado gid nga sabdungon kamo sang Dios bisan ginaapinan pa ninyo siya.
Wala bala kamo mahadlok sa iya gahom?
ang inyo mga rason kapigaw pareho sa kolon.
kag pabay-i lang ninyo ako bisan ano ang matabo sa akon.
Handa ako sa pagtaya sang akon kabuhi.
Pero sa gihapon depensahan ko ang akon kaugalingon sa iya atubangan.
kay ang tawo nga indi diosnon indi gid makapalapit sa iya atubangan.
“Pamatii sing maayo ang akon mga ginahambal.
nahibaluan ko nga ideklarar ako nga inosente.
Kon may ara gid man, mahipos na ako kag mapatay.
indi kamo labaw sa akon.
kag indi na ako magpanago sa imo:
kag indi na ako pagpahadluka sa imo makahaladlok nga ginahimo sa akon.
ukon ako ang maghambal sa imo kag sabton mo ako.
Ipakita sa akon ang akon mga paglapas kag mga sala.
kag ginakabig mo ako nga imo kaaway?
Pareho man lang ako sa dagami ukon sa dahon nga ginapalid sang hangin.
kag ginapabayad mo ako sa mga sala nga nahimo ko sang bataon pa ako.
kag ginasunod mo ang agi sang akon mga tiil.
Gani pareho ako sa gabok nga butang nga nagakadunot ukon pareho sa bayo nga ginaut-ot sang sapat-sapat.
kundi sa Dios nga Makagagahom.
Tanan kamo pareho sa doktor nga wala sing pulos.
Amo ina ang pinakamaayo ninyo nga himuon.
“Palihog pamatii ninyo ang akon mga rason.
Ginadepensahan bala ninyo ang Dios sa inyo nga pagbinutig?
Ginaapinan bala ninyo siya, nga daw sa ginadepensahan ninyo sa korte?
Indi kamo maghunahuna nga madayaan ninyo siya pareho sang inyo pagdaya sa mga tawo.
kag madamo kami sang kalisod.
Pagkabugto sang iya ginhawa amo na ina ang iya katapusan.
Subong nga nagabuhin ang tubig sa dagat kag nagahubas ang suba,
samtang may kalangitan pa.
kag magtalana ka sang tion nga dumdumon mo ako didto.
Ti batason ko ang bilog nga tiyempo sang akon pag-antos hasta mag-abot ang tion nga matapos ini.
Handumon mo ako nga imo tinuga.
pero indi mo na pagdumdumon pa ang akon sala.
Daw pareho lang nga isulod mo ini sa bag para matabunan kag indi mo na makita pa.
Pero subong nga nagakatiphag ang bukid kag nagakahulog ang bato halin sa banglid,
ginaguba mo ang paglaom sang tawo.
ukon pareho sa landong nga nagakadula gilayon.
kag ginabag-o mo ang iya hitsura kon magtaliwan na siya.
Indi siya makahibalo kon ang iya mga anak ginapadunggan ukon ginapakanubo.
Ang nabatyagan lang niya amo ang iya kaugalingon nga kasakit kag kasubo.”
Gusto mo pa siya
Kay ang tanan natawo nga mahigko.
Kag indi siya makapasobra sa tion nga gintalana mo sa iya.
pareho sa isa ka trabahador pagkatapos sang obra.
“Kon utdon ang isa ka kahoy, may tsansa pa nga mabuhi ini kag magtubo liwat.
Bisan patay na ang puno sini kag gulang na ang mga gamot,
kon matubigan magapanalingsing pa ini pareho sa isa ka bag-o nga tanom.
mas tigulang pa sa imo amay!
Kulang pa bala ina?
Ano bala ang nagpabulag sa imo sa kamatuoran sa kamatuoran
kag naghambal sinang malain nga mga pulong kontra sa iya?
Mahimo bala sang tawo nga magkabuhi nga matinlo kag matarong?
Kon ining langitnon nga mga tinuga
kag ginauhaw sa paghimo sang malain?
Sugiran ko ikaw kag paathagan sang akon naeksperiensyahan.
nga nakatuon sa ila mga katigulangan.
kag wala sing mga taga-iban nga lugar nga nagsakop sa ila.
“ Job, Job, ang maalam nga tawo wala nagahambal sing wala sing pulos.
“Ang malain nga tawo nagaantos sa bilog niya nga kabuhi.
nga basi salakayon siya sang mga tulisan.
Nahadlok siya magkadto sa dulom kay basi patyon siya.
Nahibaluan niya nga malapit na siya mapatay.
Puwerte ang iya kakulba, pareho sa hari nga manugsalakay sa inaway.
Nagakatabo ini sa iya, Nagakatabo ini sa iya, tungod nagarebelde siya
kag gusto gid nga kontrahon ang Dios.
Bisan manggaranon kag matambok siya subong,
sa mga balay nga wala sing may nagaestar kag daw sa marumpag na.
Ang iya manggad indi magdugay, kag ang iya pagkabutang indi magdamo sa duta.
Wala siya nagapakigbais sa wala sing pulos nga mga pulong.
Madula ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang sa isa lang ka paghuyop sang Dios.
kay wala gid siya sing may makuha sa sini.
kag indi na siya mag-uswag pa.
ukon pareho sa kahoy nga olibo nga nagakapulak ang iya mga bulak.
Kag magakalasunog ang mga balay nga ginpatindog nila paagi sa pagpanguwarta.
Nagahunahuna sila permi sa pagpanggamo, paghimo sang malain, kag pagpangdaya.”
nga indi na magtahod kag magpangalagad sa Dios.
Kag ginadayaan mo ang iban paagi sa imo mga pulong.
Ang imo mismo ginapanghambal amo ang nagapamatuod kontra sa imo.
Natawo ka na bala antes gintuga ang mga bukid?
Ikaw lang bala ang maalam?
Ano bala ang imo naintiendihan nga wala man namon naintiendihan?
Nag-isa sila kontra sa akon.
Gintugyan ako sang Dios sa kamot sang malain kag makasasala nga mga tawo.
Ginhimo niya ako nga iya iliguon.
kag nag-awas ang akon apdo sa duta.
daw isa siya ka soldado nga nagasalakay sa akon.
kag nagapungko sa duta sa pagpangasubo sa pagpangasubo .
kag nagapalamarok ang akon mata.
kag sinsero gid ako sa akon pagpangamuyo.
nga indi pagtabunan ang iya dugo sa wala pa niya maangkon ang hustisya.
Siya ang magasiling nga wala ako sing sala.
Imbes nga lipayon ninyo ako, ginapasubo pa gani ninyo ako tapat.
pero nagahibi ako sa Dios sa pagpangayo sang bulig sa pagpangayo sang bulig .
pareho sa isa ka tawo nga nagapakitluoy para sa iya abyan.
Kay sa indi madugay magataliwan na ako kag indi na magbalik.
Ano gid bala ang nagatublag sa inyo nga sagi kamo ka bais sa akon?
Waswasan ko man kamo hambal kag magalungo-lungo sang akon ulo sa inyo.
nga makapabaskog kag makalipay sa inyo.
Kag kon maghipos man ako indi gihapon ini madula.
Ginlaglag mo ang bilog ko nga panimalay.
kag suno sa iban ini nagapamatuod nga nakasala ako.
kag gintulok sang masakit nga daw sa kaaway mo ako.
Handa na ang lulubngan para sa akon.
Sigurado nga masapwan ko nga wala sing bisan isa sa ila nga nakaintiendi.
Napaslawan ang akon mga plano kag mga handom.
Siling nila, ‘Sa pihak sang kadulom may magaabot nga kasanag.’
Gusto ko na iplastar ang akon hiligdaan sa sining madulom nga lugar.
kag kabigon ko ang mga ulod nga magaut-ot sa akon nga magaut-ot sa akon nga akon iloy kag mga utod nga babayi.
May paglaom pa bala ako? Sin-o ang makasiling nga may paglaom pa ako?
Magaupod kami didto sa idalom sang duta.”
Bulgar gid ang ila pag-insulto sa akon.
Wala na sang iban nga makabulig sa akon kundi ikaw lang.
Gani indi sila pagtuguti nga magmadinalag-on sa ila nga pag-akusar sa akon sa ila nga pag-akusar sa akon .
nga amo ang kabangdanan sang pag-antos
kag ginaduplaan nila ako sa guya.
daw kalag na ako kaniwang.
Ginapakamalaot nila ako subong sa isa ka indi diosnon nga tawo.
kag nagabaskog pa gid.
kag natago ini sa duta.
kag daw sa nagalagas ini sa iya.
Ang kalaglagan handa sa paglaglag sa iya.
kag nagakadunot ang iya mga tiil kag kamot.
kag ginadala siya sa makahaladlok nga hari.
Madula ang iya elistaran tungod masunog ini sang nagadabadaba nga asupre.
Mangin pareho siya sang kahoy nga malaya ang mga gamot kag mga sanga sini.
Wala na sing may magdumdom sa iya diri sa kalibutan. Kalimtan na gid siya.
pakadto sa lugar sang mga patay nga lugar sang mga patay nga madulom.
kag wala gid sing may mabilin nga buhi sa iya pamilya.
Kay-uha bala ang imo ginapanghambal kag maestorya kami sa imo.
nagakatingala kag nagakahadlukan sa natabo sa iya.
Matuod gid nga amo ina ang dangatan sang malain nga tawo, nga wala nagakilala sa Dios.”
Ginakabig mo bala kami nga pareho sa mga baka nga wala sing pag-intiendi?
ukon sayluhon niya niya ang mga bato sa ila sini nahamtangan?
Pareho siya sang suga nga indi na magsiga.
Mangin madulom ang iya tolda kay mapatay ang suga sa iya tupad.
Ang iya mismo padihot amo ang nagalaglag sa iya.
Siya mismo ang naglakat pakadto sa siod, kag nasiod siya.
Indi na makahalin ang iya tiil.
Ginkuha niya ang akon paglaom nga daw sa kahoy nga gin-gabot.
kag ginakabig niya ako nga isa sa iya mga kaaway.
Ginapalibutan nila ako sa akon tolda.
Ang akon mga kilala malayo na sa akon.
Ginkalimtan na ako sang akon mga kilala.
Ang pagtan-aw nila sa akon taga-iban nga lugar.
bisan pa nga nagapakitluoy ako sa iya.
kag nangil-aran sa akon ang akon mga utod nga lalaki.
Kon makita nila ako,
Gintalikdan ako sang akon mga ginahigugma.
“Hasta san-o pa ninyo ako paantuson kag sakiton sa inyo mga ginapanghambal?
kag daw halos mapatay na ako.
Kaluoyi ninyo ako, kay ginapaantos ako sang Dios.
Indi pa bala tuman ang inyo pagpaantos sa akon?
Maayo kuntani kon ginsulat ang mga ginpanghambal ko sa isa ka libro,
ukon ukon gin-inggreb sing maayo sa bato para indi mapanas hasta san-o.
kag sa ulihi magaabot siya sa duta sa pag-apin sa akon sa pag-apin sa akon .
Kon madunot na ang akon panit kag maghalin na ako sa akon lawas, makita ko ang Dios.
Dako gid ang akon handom nga makita siya.
“Kon padayunon ninyo ang pag-akusar sa akon nga nagaantos ako tungod sa akon sala,
Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ginasentensyahan kamo sang Dios sang Dios .”
Wala kamo mahuya sa pagpakalain sa akon.
Kon nakasala gid man ako, akon na ina problema.
kag ginakabig ninyo ang akon pag-antos nga pamatuod nga nakasala ako.
Siya ang nagbutang sang siod sa akon palibot.
pero wala sing may nagahatag sini sa akon.
Gintabunan niya sang kadulom ang akon alagyan.
Ginkuha niya ang akon kadungganan kag maayo nga reputasyon.
Ang iya mga anak amo ang magabayad sa mga imol sa iya mga kinawat sa ila.
Mapatay siya kag ilubong nga bataon kag makusog pa.
“Ang paghimo sang kalautan pareho sa pagkaon nga matam-is sa iya baba,
kag ginaugom niya ini sing malawig para masaboran gid niya.
kag magahilo sa iya pareho sa dalit sang man-og.
Bisan ara na ini sa iya tiyan ipasuka ini sang Dios sa iya.
Magasuyop siya sang dalit sang mga man-og nga amo ang magapatay sa iya.
nga daw sa sapa ukon suba nga nagailig.
Indi siya makapangalipay sa iya manggad.
Gin-agaw niya ang mga balay nga indi iya.
“Kinahanglan nga magsabat ako kay indi ako mapahamtang.
Ang tanan nga magustuhan niya indi makaluwas sa iya.
kay ang iya manggad madula.
Puwerte gid nga pag-antos ang magaabot sa iya.
kag paulanan siya sang silot.
matuhog gihapon siya sang saway nga pana.
Magaabot sa iya ang kahadlok.
sang kalayo nga indi tawo ang nagpasiga.
kag magasaksi ang duta kontra sa iya.
sa adlaw nga ipaagom sang Dios ang iya kaakig.
nga gintalana sang Dios para sa iya.”
kag karon may nagatulod sa akon panghunahuna nga magsabat ako sa imo.
Sigurado gid nga nahibaluan mo nga halin pa sang una, umpisa sang pagtuga sa tawo sa kalibutan,
Huo, wala nagadugay ang kalipay sang mga tawo nga indi diosnon.
nga daw lambot na ini sa mga panganod ukon sa langit,
Ang mga nakakilala sa iya, mamangkot kon diin na siya.
kag indi na gid siya makita.
kag madula siya sa lugar nga iya anay ginaestaran.
kag wala ini nagakahulugan.
Ang ila mga bata madamo pareho sa mga karnero.
nagakinanta, kag nagakinalipay sa tukar sang tamborin, arpa kag plawta.
Nagakabuhi sila nga mainuswagon kag nagakalamatay nga malinong.
Wala kami nagahandom nga mahibaluan ang imo mga pamaagi.
Kag ano gid ang amon makuha kon magpangamuyo kami sa imo?’
Gani kon ano man ang ilaygay sining mga malain, indi gid ako magpamati.
Talagsa lang nagaabot sa ila ang kalisod ukon ang kasakit nga ginapadala sang Dios tungod sa iya kaakig.
Talagsa lang sila ginatabog nga daw sa dagami ukon upa nga ginapalid sang mabaskog nga hangin.
Pero nagasiling ako nga ang nakasala amo ang dapat silutan sang Dios, para maeksperiensyahan nila
“Pamatii ninyo ako sing maayo para mapalipay man ninyo ako.
Pabay-i nga matilawan nila ang kaakig sang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios .
Kay kon patay na sila wala na sila kalibutan sa nagakalatabo sa ila panimalay.
“Makatudlo bala ang tawo sa Dios, sanglit siya ang pinakamataas nga hukom?
May mga tawo nga nagakapatay nga bugana kag matawhay ang ila kahimtangan,
kag maayo ang ila lawas.
kag wala gid makatilaw sang maayo nga pangabuhi.
Pero pareho lang sila nga ilubong sa duta kag pagakaunon sang mga mga ulod.
Nahibaluan ko ang inyo mga padihot kontra sa akon.
Sugiran ninyo ako sang mga tawo nga manggaranon nga nagkalaguba ang ila mga balay tungod sa ila kalautan.
kag pamatii ang ila mga ginasiling. Kay sugiran nila kamo Kay sugiran nila kamo
kag kon makatapos na gani ako, yagutaa gihapon ninyo ako kon gusto ninyo ninyo ako kon gusto ninyo .
tungod sa kaakig sang Dios sang Dios .
Wala gid sing may nagabalos sa iya ginhimo.
Kon ilubong na siya, may nagaguwardya pa sang iya lulubngan.
kag ang duta nagahatag sang kapahuwayan sa iya.
Wala gid sing kamatuoran ang inyo ginasiling.”
Amo ini ang rason kon ngaa dali ako mangakig.
nga indi makapati sa natabo sa akon sa natabo sa akon .
Kon hunahunaon ko ang mga nagakatabo sa akon, nagakurog ako sa kahadlok.
Nagatigulang pa sila kag nagamauswagon.
Kag makita pa nila ang pagdako sang ila mga anak kag mga apo.
Kag wala sila ginasilutan sang Dios.
kag nagaabot sa imo ang gulpi nga kahadlok.
kag ginalapawan sang baha.
labaw pa sa pinakamataas nga mga bituon.
Natabunan siya sang gal-om, paano siya makahukom?
gani indi niya kita makita samtang nagalakat siya sa ibabaw sang langit.’
nga dugay na nga ginasunod sang malain nga mga tawo?
pareho sila sa pundasyon sang balay nga gin-anod sang baha.
‘Pabay-i lang kami! Ano bala ang mahimo mo para sa amon?’
Gani kon ano man ang ilaygay sining malain nga mga tawo, indi gid ako magpamati.
magakalipay sila kag magakadlaw sa ila.
“May mabulig bala ang tawo sa Dios, ukon bisan ang maalam nga tawo?
kag ginlamon sang kalayo ang ila pagkabutang.’
“ Job, Job, magpasakop ka sa Dios kag magpakighusay sa iya para pakamaayuhon niya ikaw.
Batuna ang iya mga pagpanudlo kag tipigi ang iya mga pulong sa imo tagipusuon.
ibalik niya ang imo maayo nga kahimtangan.
kabiga ina nga daw sa balas lang ukon daw sa mga bato lang sa suba.
Dayon ang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios mangin pareho sang bulawan kag malahalon nga pilak sa imo.
kag indi ka mahuya sa pagpalapit sa iya.
kag pagatumanon mo ang imo mga promisa sa iya.
kag mangin masanag ang imo alagyan.
buligan niya ang amo nga tawo.
May makuha bala siya sa imo kon wala sing kasawayan ang imo kabuhi?
Bisan ang tawo nga nakasala luwason niya paagi sa imo matarong nga kabuhi.”
indi tungod kay nagatahod ka sa iya,
kag wala na sang untat ang imo pagpakasala.
bilang garantiya sa iya utang sa imo sa iya utang sa imo .
kag wala mo man ginahatagan sang pagkaon ang mga ginagutom.
Ginagamit mo ang imo pagkagamhanan kag pagkadungganon sa pag-angkon sang duta.
Pati ang mga ilo wala mo ginatratar sing maayo.
Dayon nagsiling si Job,
Sa tapos nga matilawan niya ako, masapwan niya nga matinlo matinlo ako pareho sa puro nga puro nga bulawan.
Ginsunod ko ang iya mga pamaagi, kag wala gid ako naglikaw sa sini.
kag ginatipigan ko ini sa akon tagipusuon.
Ginahimo niya ang iya naluyagan.
kag madamo ang iya plano sa akon.
Kon hunahunaon ko ini, puwerte ang akon kahadlok.
Ginpaluya kag ginpahadlok ako sang Dios nga Makagagahom.
Pero wala ako nag-untat sa pagreklamo bisan daw sa natabunan ako sang puwerte nga kadulom.
Ginapaantos pa gid ako sang Dios sa pihak sang akon pag-ugayong.
kon makakadto lang ako sa iya ginaestaran,
ihambal ko gid sa iya ang akon kaso kag ipresentar ko ang akon mga rason.
kag gusto ko intiendihon ang isiling niya.
Pamatian niya ang akon ihambal.
kag hilwayon niya ako hasta san-o.
Ngaa wala makita sang mga nagakilala sa iya inang tion sa paghukom?
ginapapas-an sila sang mga inani nga uyas nga uyas pero gutom sila.
Ginapapuga sila sang olibo kag ubas, pero indi sila makatilaw sini.
pero wala gid pagbalusi sang Dios ang naghimo sing malain sa ila.
Wala sila nagalakat sa kasanag kag wala nila ini naintiendihan.
kag kon gab-i nagapangawat siya.
Ginatabunan niya ang iya nawong para wala sing may makakilala sa iya.
pero kon adlaw nagapanago sila, kay nagalikaw sila sa kasanag.
kay mas gusto nila ang makahaladlok nga kadulom.
Gani wala sing may nagakadto sa ila talamnan sang ubas.
ang mga makasasala madula man sa kalibutan.
Nagapangawat sila sang mga sapat kag ginaimpon nila sa ila mga sapat.
kag kaunon sila sang mga ulod.
Kag wala nila ginakaluoyan ang mga balo nga babayi.
Bisan mabakod sila, wala sing kasiguruhan ang ila kabuhi.
pero ginabantayan gid sang Dios ang tanan nila nga hulag.
ukon pareho sa uhay nga gin-garab.
Sin-o ang makasiling nga sala ako?”
kag ginakuha nila bilang garantiya sa utang ang baka sang balo nga babayi.
gani napilitan ini nga magpanago.
Halos wala na sing iban nga lugar nga mapangitaan nila sang pagkaon para sa ila mga anak.
pati sa talamnan sang ubas sang malain nga mga tawo.
kay wala sila sing habol kag kulang ang ila bayo.
kag nagadasok sila sa higad sang mga bato tungod kay wala sila sing pasilungan.
“Ginakuha sang malain nga mga tawo sang malain nga mga tawo ang bata sang balo kag imol nga babayi bilang bayad sa utang.
Ginapahari niya ang kalinong sa kalangitan.
May lugar bala nga wala nasanagan sang iya kasanag?
May ara bala nga natawo nga matinlo?
Kon bisan ang bulan kag ang mga bituon indi masanag sa iya panulok,
ano pa ayhan ang tawo nga pareho lang sa isa ka ulod.”
bilang dulunan sang kasanag kag sang kadulom.
Sa iya nga pagsabdong nagatay-og ang mga haligi sang langit.
kag sa iya nga kaalam ginlaglag niya ang dragon nga ang dragon nga si Rahab.
kag sa iya nga gahom ginpatay niya ang nagasaog nga dragon.
Karon, sin-o bala ang makatungkad sang pagkagamhanan sang Dios?”
“Nagahunahuna ka nga nabuligan mo ako nga maluya kag wala sing ikasarang.
Nagahunahuna ka nga nalaygayan mo ako nga wala sing alam paagi sa imo puwerte nga kaalam.
Kay sin-o espiritu ang nagtudlo sa imo sa paghambal sina?
“Nagakurog sa kahadlok ang mga patay sa ila nahamtangan didto sa idalom sang tubig.
Wala sing may makatabon sa lugar sang kalaglagan.
kag ginapakabit niya ang kalibutan sa kahawaan.
pero ang gal-om wala nagakabusdik bisan mabug-at ini.
Ginatabunan niya sang iya gal-om ang ugsad nga bulan.
Nagpadayon si Job sa paghambal,
Magapanawag bala siya sa iya sa tanan nga tion?
Isugid ko gid sa inyo kon ano ang iya mga pamaagi.
Ti, ngaa nagahambal pa kamo sa akon sang wala sing pulos?
sa malain kag mapintas nga mga tawo:
Bisan madamo pa ang iya mga anak, ang iban sa ila mapatay sa inaway ukon sa gutom.
kag wala sing may magpangasubo sa ila kamatayon, bisan ang ila mga asawa.
“Bisan magtipon pa sang madamo gid nga pilak kag bayo ang malain nga tawo,
kag partidahon nila ang iya pilak.
ukon sang kamalig sang manugbantay sang talamnan.
Magahigda siya nga manggaranon, pero pagbugtaw niya wala na ang tanan niya nga manggad.
nga wala naghatag sa akon sang hustisya kag nagpalain sang akon buot.
kag paliron siya sang mabaskog nga hangin sa kagab-ihon.
Paliron siya sang hangin nga halin sa east, kag madula siya sa iya ginaestaran.
Magahuyop ini sa iya nga wala sing luoy-luoy samtang nagatinguha gid siya sa pagpalagyo.
tungod nga nadula siya sa iya ginaestaran.
Samtang nagaginhawa pa ako, kag ginatugutan pa ako sang Dios nga mabuhi,
indi gid ako maghambal sang kalautan kag indi gid ako magbutig.
Iinsister ko gid nga inosente ako hasta nga mapatay ako.
Samtang buhi ako limpyo ang akon konsensya.
“Kabay pa nga ang mga nagakontra sa akon silutan sang Dios sang silot nga bagay sa malain nga mga tawo.
Kay ano bala ang paglaom sang indi diosnon nga tawo kon kuhaon na sang Dios ang iya kabuhi?
Magapamati bala ang Dios sa iya pagpangayo sang bulig kon ang katalagman magaabot sa iya?
kag may mga lugar nga sa diin ginapapuraw ang mga bulawan.
kag makita nila ang nagkalain-lain nga malahalon nga mga bato.
kag ginakuha nila ang natago nga mga manggad kag ginadala sa kasanag.
“Pero diin bala makita ang kaalam ukon pag-intiendi?
Indi ini makita diri sa kalibutan.
Indi man ini makita bisan sa kadadalman sang dagat.
Indi ini mabakal sang puro nga bulawan ukon sang pilak.
ukon sang malahalon nga mga bato nga mga bato nga onix kag sapiro.
Indi ini mabaylo sa alahas nga bulawan.
Ang bili sini labaw pa sa bili sang coral, haspe, ukon rubi.
kag indi ini mabakal sang puro nga bulawan.
Ang salsalon ginakuha sa duta, kag ang saway ginatunaw halin sa mga bato.
“Ti, diin bala makita ang kaalam ukon ang pag-intiendi?
Wala sing buhi nga tinuga nga makakita sini bisan pa ang mga pispis.
kuno-kuno lang ang ila nabatian parte sini.
Ang Dios lang gid ang nakahibalo kon sa diin makita ang kaalam.
kag makita niya ang tanan sa idalom sang langit.
Sang ginhuyop niya ang hangin, kag sang gintakos niya kon ano kadamol sang ulan nga magtupa,
kag sang gindesisyunan niya kon diin magtupa ang ulan kag kon diin mag-agi ang mga kilat nga may daguob,
Gintestingan niya ini kag gin-aprobahan.
‘May kaalam kamo kag pag-intiendi kon nagatahod kamo sa Ginoo kag nagalikaw sa kalautan.’ ”
Nagakutkot sila sang mga bato sa kadadalman.
Nagapanaog sila paagi sa mga lubid nga nagahabyog-habyog.
pero sa idalom sang duta daw sa ginporma sang kalayo.
kag ang mga yab-ok sini may bulawan.
Ang mga alagyan sa minahan sa minahan wala makita sang mga uwak ukon sang mga dapay,
kag wala maagyan sang mapintas nga mga sapat nga mga sapat ukon sang leon.
bisan pa ang idalom nga parte sang mga bukid.
Nagpadayon pa gid si Job sa paghambal,
kag ang dungganon nga mga tawo pagkakita nila sa akon pagkakita nila sa akon .
Ang bisan sin-o nga nakakita sa akon ukon nakabati sa akon maghambal, nagadayaw sa akon.
kag ang mga ilo nga wala sing dalangpan.
kag nalipay gid ang mga balo nga babayi nga akon man ginbuligan nga akon man ginbuligan .
daw bayo kag turban ini nga akon ginasuksok.
Nangin pareho ako sang mata sa tawo nga bulag kag tiil sa tawo nga piang.
kag bisan ang mga estranghero ginbuligan ko sa ila mga kaso.
Gindula ko ang gahom sang malain nga mga tawo kag ginluwas ang ila mga biktima.
kag mapatay nga ginalibutan sang akon pamilya.
nga nagapangalapkap ang mga gamot sa tubig kag permi ginatun-ogan ang mga sanga.
“Kon mabalik lang kuntani ang mga nagligad nga mga inadlaw sang ginabantayan pa ako sang Dios,
Ginadayaw ako permi sang mga tawo kag permi ako mabaskog.
“Nagahipos ang mga tawo kag nagapamati sing maayo sa akon mga laygay.
Pagkatapos ko hambal, wala na sila sang may idugang pa kay kontento sila sa akon ginhambal.
Gusto gid nila ini nga pamatian.
ang akon malipayon nga nawong nakapabaskog sa ila.
Ginalipay ko sila kon nagakasubo sila.
sang ginasanagan pa niya ang akon dalanon samtang nagalakat ako sa madulom.
kag ginapakamaayo niya ang akon panimalay.
kag kaupod ko pa ang akon mga anak.
kag ang akon mga talamnan sang olibo nagahatag sang madamo gid nga lana.
kag mag-upod sa mga manugdumala sang banwa kon mag-meeting sila,
kag ang mga tigulang nagatindog sa pagtahod sa akon sa pagtahod sa akon .
Nagahipos bisan ang mga pangulo
Mas masaligan pa gani ang akon mga ido nga nagabantay sang akon mga karnero.
Wala sila natahap sa pagdupla sa akon guya.
ginhimo nila ang ila gusto nga himuon sa akon.
kag ginatinguhaan gid nila ako nga laglagon.
Nagmadinalag-on sila bisan wala sing may nagabulig sa ila.
Ginasalakay nila ako pareho sa mga soldado nga nagaagi sa dako nga buho sang pader nga gin-guba.
pareho sa panganod nga ginpalid sang mabaskog nga hangin.
“Kag karon daw sa mapatay na ako; wala untat ang akon pag-antos.
ang kasakit nga akon ginabatyag wala nagauntat.
Gin-uyatan niya ako sa kuwelyo
Daw pareho na lang ako sa yab-ok kag abo.
Ano gid bala ang makuha ko sa sini nga mga tawo nga mga maluya kag wala sing kusog?
Nagatindog ako sa imo presensya, pero ginatulok mo lang ako.
Gin-gamit mo ang imo puwerte nga gahom sa pagpaantos sa akon.
Daw pareho lang nga ginapapalid mo ako sa hangin kag ginapabulubaliskad sa bagyo.
sa lugar nga gintalana mo nga kadtuan sang tanan nga tawo.
“Wala gid ako sing may ginhalitan nga tawo nga nagaantos kag nagapakitluoy tungod sa kalisod.
Naluoy gid ako sa mga mga imol.
Nagpangita ako sang kasanag, pero kadulom ang nag-abot sa akon.
Adlaw-adlaw nagaabot ang pag-antos sa akon.
Nagatindog ako sa komunidad kag nagapangayo sang bulig.
Ang akon tingog daw pareho sa uwang sang talunon nga ido ukon huni sang bukaw.
Nagakitkit na lang sila sang mga kararuton sang mga kararuton
Puwerte gid ang akon hilanat.
Nangin masubo ang sunata sang akon arpa kag plawta.
bisan pa ang malas-ay nga gamot sang kahoy nga enebro.
Ginatabog sila palayo sa ila mga kasimanwa kag ginasinggitan nga daw sa mga kawatan.
sa mga guhab sang mga bato, kag sa mga buho sa duta.
kag nagadas-ukanay sila sa puno sang mga kahoy-kahoy.
kag gintabog sila sa ila duta.
Nangin kaladlawan ako sa ila.
nga indi gid magtulok nga may kailigbon sa mga dalaga.
kabay pa nga kuhaon ukon huliran sang iban nga lalaki ang akon asawa.
kag dapat gid nga silutan ang nagahimo sina.
nga makalaglag sang tanan ko nga pagkabutang.
“Kon ginbaliwala ko ang kinamatarong sang akon mga suluguon sang magreklamo sila sa akon,
Ano ang isabat ko kon usisaon niya ako?
Indi bala nga ang Dios nga naghimo sa akon amo man ang naghimo sa akon mga suluguon?
“Kon wala ako nagbulig sa mga imol kag sa mga balo nga babayi nga nalisdan,
kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios kabay pa nga silutan ako sang Dios .
sa bilog ko nga kabuhi wala ako nagpabaya sa mga balo nga babayi.
Kon may makita ako nga tawo nga nagaantos sa katugnaw tungod nga kulang siya sang bayo,
Kay ano nga balos ang ihatag sang Makagagahom nga Dios sa langit sa ginahimo sang tawo?
Dayon nagapasalamat siya sa akon sing tinagipusuon.
tungod kay nahibaluan ko nga may impluwensya ako sa korte,
kabay pa nga mautod ang akon butkon.
Indi ko mahimo ina nga mga butang kay nahadlok ako sa silot kag sa gahom
ukon naghunahuna nga makahatag ini sa akon sang seguridad.
kag sa tanan nga pagkabutang nga naangkon ko.
ukon sa bulan nga nagalakat sing matahom.
Wala man naganyat sing sekreto ang akon tagipusuon sa pagsimba sini.
kay nagluib ako sa Dios nga ara sa langit.
ukon sang nag-abot sa ila ang kalisod.
Indi bala kalaglagan kag kahalitan para sa mga nagahimo sang kalautan?
Wala ako nagpakasala paagi sa pagpakamalaot sa ila.
Nahibaluan sang akon panimalay nga ginpakaon ko sing maayo ang mga nagbisita sa akon.
kay permi bukas ang akon puwertahan para sa ila.
Wala ko gintago ang akon mga sala pareho sang ginahimo sang iban.
ukon nagpakuribong tungod sa kahadlok kon ano ang isiling sang mga tawo.
ginapangabay ko siya nga ihambal niya sa akon, kon indi gani isulat niya.
sa pagpakita nga handa ako sa pag-atubang sini sa pagpakita nga handa ako sa pag-atubang sini .
Magaatubang ako sa iya pareho sa pangulo nga wala nahuya nga wala nahuya .
ukon ginkawat ko ini sa iban,
tungod nga ginkuha ko ang mga patubas nga wala sila pagbayari,
Nahibaluan sang Dios ang tanan ko nga ginahimo.
Diri natapos ang hambal ni Job.
“Kon nagabinutig ako kag nagapangdaya,
Kay siya ang nakahibalo kon nakasala ako.
kag gindagtaan ko ang akon kaugalingon,
kabay pa nga magkalapierdi ang akon mga tanom ukon kaunon ini sang iban.
ukon nagapangaluyag ako sa asawa sang akon tupad-balay,
Sang ulihi nag-untat man sa pagsabat kay Job ang tatlo niya ka abyan, tungod kay nag-insister gid si Job nga wala siya sing sala.
Gani magpamati kamo sa akon. Magahambal man ako sang akon nahibaluan.
Naghulat ako samtang nagahunahuna kamo kon ano ang inyo nagakadapat nga ihambal. Nagpamati ako sang inyo mga rason.
Ginpamatian ko gid kamo sing maayo, pero wala gid sing isa sa inyo nga nakapamatuod nga nakasala si Job; wala gid kamo makasabat sa iya mga rason.
Indi kamo magsiling, ‘Nasapwan namon nga mas maalam siya. Pabay-i nga ang Dios ang magsabat sa iya kag indi ang tawo.’
Kon ako ang ginabais ni Job, indi ko siya pagsabton pareho sang inyo panabat.
Karon naurungan kamo kag wala na sang isabat.
Kinahanglan pa bala nga maghulat ako, karon nga naghipos na kamo kag wala na sing isabat?
May ihambal man ako; isugid ko man ang akon nahibaluan.
Kay madamo ako sang inughambal, kag daw indi ko na gid ini mapunggan.
Pareho ako sa bag-o nga panit nga suludlan sang bino nga daw mabusdik tungod nga indi makasungaw ang bino.
Karon, may isa ka tawo didto nga ang iya ngalan si Elihu. Anak siya ni Barakel nga taga-Buz nga kaliwat sang pamilya ni Ram. Naakig gid siya kay Job kay wala ginabasol ni Job ang iya kaugalingon kundi ang Dios.
Kinahanglan nga maghambal gid ako para maumpawan ako.
Wala ako sing may apinan ukon dayaw-dayawon.
Indi ako kahibalo magdayaw-dayaw. Kon himuon ko ini, silutan ako gilayon sang Dios nga Dios nga naghimo sa akon.
Naakig man siya sa tatlo ka abyan ni Job kay indi nila mapamatud-an nga nakasala si Job kag nagaguwa nga ang Dios amo ang may sala.
Ginhulat ni Elihu nga makatapos sila tanan sa paghambal antes siya maghambal kay Job, tungod kay mas magulang sila sang sa iya.
Pero sang makita niya nga ang tatlo wala na sing ihambal, nangakig gid siya.
Gani nagsiling siya, “Bata pa ako kag kamo tigulang na, gani natahap ako maghambal. Wala ako nangahas sa paghambal sa inyo sang akon nahibaluan.
Naghunahuna ako nga kamo ang dapat magtudlo, kay mga tigulang na kamo kag madamo ang inyo nahibaluan.
Pero ang matuod, ang espiritu sang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios nga ara sa tawo amo ang nagahatag sa iya sang pag-intiendi.
Ang pagkatigulang indi garantiya nga ang isa ka tawo maalam kag nakahibalo kon ano ang husto.
“Karon, Job, pamatii sing maayo ang tanan nga ihambal ko sa imo.
Pero ginapangitaan sang Dios sang rason nga iya ako paantuson. Ginakabig niya ako nga iya kaaway.
Ginakadenahan niya ang akon mga tiil; ginabantayan niya ang tanan ko nga ginahimo.’
“Pero Job, Job, sala ka gid sa imo ginsiling. Indi bala nga ang Dios labaw sang sa tawo?
Ti, ngaa ginaakusar mo siya nga wala niya ginasabat ang reklamo sang tawo?
Ang matuod, nagahambal permi
Nagahambal siya Nagahambal siya paagi sa damgo samtang nagakatulog sing mahamuok ang tawo kon gab-i.
Nagahutik siya sa ila dulunggan sa pagpaandam sa ila, kag ini nakapahadlok sa ila.
Ginahimo niya ini Ginahimo niya ini para mag-untat ang tawo sa pagpakasala kag pagpabugal,
kag para maluwas siya sa kamatayon.
Kon kaisa ginadisiplina sang Dios ang tawo paagi sa balatian nga nagapaantos sa iya pareho sa sige-sige nga palanakit sang tul-an,
Handa na gid ako sa paghambal kag ara na sa punta sang akon dila ang akon inughambal.
nga nagapadula sang iya gana sa pagkaon bisan sa pinakamanamit nga pagkaon.
Naganiwang siya, kag nagaguluwa na ang iya mga tul-an.
Dali na lang siya mapatay kag magkadto sa lugar sang mga patay.
“Pero kon may isa lang sa linibo nga mga anghel nga magpatunga sa iya kag sa Dios, kag sa Dios, kag magpadumdom sa iya kon ano ang husto nga dapat niya himuon,
kaluoyan siya sang Dios.
Dayon magabalik ang maayo niya nga lawas. Magabakod siya liwat pareho sang pamatan-on pa siya.
Kon magpangamuyo siya sa Dios sabton niya siya. Batunon siya sang Dios sing malipayon, kag ibalik sang Dios sa iya ang iya matarong nga pagkabuhi.
Dayon magasugid siya sa mga tawo, ‘Nakasala ako, kag naghimo sang indi husto, pero wala ko mabaton ang silot nga bagay kuntani sa akon.
Ginluwas niya ako sa kamatayon, kag padayon ako nga magkabuhi.’
“Huo, permi ini ginahimo sang Dios sa tawo.
Magahambal ako halin sa akon matarong nga tagipusuon. Ihambal ko sing sinsero ang akon nahibaluan.
Ginaluwas niya ang tawo sa kamatayon para mabuhi siya.
Job, pamatii ako sing maayo. Maghipos ka lang, kag pabay-i ako sa paghambal.
Kon may inughambal ka gid man, maghambal ka, kay gusto ko mahibaluan kon matuod nga wala ka sing sala.
Pero kon wala ka sing inughambal, maghipos ka kag magpamati sa akon kaalam.”
Ang espiritu sang Makagagahom nga Dios amo ang naghimo sa akon kag naghatag sa akon sang kabuhi.
Sabta ako, kon mahimo mo. Ihanda ang imo mga rason kag atubanga ako.
Pareho lang ako sa imo sa atubangan sang Dios. Ginporma man ako halin sa duta.
Gani indi ka magkahadlok sa akon ukon maghunahuna nga daog-daugon ko ikaw.
“Nabatian ko gid ang mga ginpanghambal mo. Nagsiling ka,
‘Wala ako sing sala; matinlo ako kag inosente.
Dayon nagsiling si Elihu,
Gani magpamati kamo sa akon, kamo nga nagasiling nga nakaintiendi kamo. Ang Makagagahom nga Dios wala nagahimo sing malain.
Ginabalusan niya ang tawo suno sa iya binuhatan; ginatratar niya siya suno sa nagakabagay sa iya pamatasan.
Imposible nga maghimo ang Makagagahom nga Dios sing malain. Indi niya mahimo nga tikuon ang hustisya.
May nagsugo bala sa iya sa pagdumala sa bilog nga kalibutan? Siyempre wala! Siyempre wala!
Kon pagbuot sang Dios nga kuhaon ang ginhawa nga ginhatag niya sa tawo,
magakalamatay ang tanan nga tawo kag magabalik sa duta.
“Kon may pag-intiendi ka, Job, Job, pamatii ining akon ihambal:
Makadumala bala ang Dios kon indi niya gusto ang hustisya? Ti, ngaa ginapakalain mo ang matarong kag gamhanan nga Dios?
Indi bala nga kon malain kag wala sing pulos ang mga hari kag mga opisyal ginasabdong niya sila?
Wala siya sing may ginapasulabi sa mga pangulo, kag wala niya ginapaboran ang mga manggaranon sa mga imol, kay sila tanan pareho niya nga ginhimo.
“Kamo nga nagasiling nga maalamon kamo kag madamo sang nahibaluan, pamatii ninyo ako sing maayo.
Bisan ang gamhanan nga mga tawo mapatay gulpi sa kagab-ihon, nga wala sing may nagtandog sa ila.
Ginabantayan gid sang Dios ang tanan nga ginahimo sang tawo.
Wala gid sing madulom nga lugar nga sa diin makapanago ang mga malain.
Indi na kinahanglan nga tawgon pa sang Dios ang tawo nga magkadto sa iya atubangan para usisaon kag hukman.
Indi na kinahanglan nga mag-imbistigar pa siya kon pahalinon na niya ang gamhanan nga mga tawo sa ila posisyon kag buslan sang iban.
Tungod nga nahibaluan niya ang ila ginahimo, ginakuhaan niya sila sang gahom kag ginalaglag bisan bisan sa kagab-ihon.
Ginasilutan niya sila sa atubangan sang mga tawo tungod sang ila kalautan.
Ginahimo niya ini tungod kay nag-untat sila sa pagsunod sa iya, kag wala nila ginasapak ang iya mga pamaagi.
Ginadaogdaog nila ang mga imol, kag nabatian sang Dios ang ila sini pagpangayo sang bulig.
Pero bisan maghipos kag magpanago ang Dios, wala sing may makasiling nga indi husto ang ginahimo niya. Pero ang matuod, nagabantay ang Dios sa mga tawo kag sa mga nasyon,
Kay subong nga ang dila makahibalo kon ano ang manamit kag ang indi manamit nga pagkaon, ang dulunggan makahibalo man kon ano ang husto ukon indi husto nga mga pulong.
para matapna niya ang pagdumala sang indi diosnon nga mga tawo nga makahalit sa katawhan.
“ Job, Job, ngaa indi ka magpalapit sa Dios kag magsiling, ‘Nakasala ako, pero indi na ako magpakasala pa’
ukon ‘Ipahayag sa akon ang akon sala. Kon nakasala ako, indi ko na ini paghimuon liwat.’
Paano sabton sang Dios ang imo ginapangabay kon indi ka maghinulsol? Ara sa imo ang desisyon, indi sa akon. Gani sugiri ako kon ano ang masiling mo.
Ang mga tawo nga maalamon kag may pag-intiendi, nga nagapamati sa akon,
makasiling man nga ang imo ginahambal, Job, wala sing kaalam kag wala sing pulos.
Dapat tilawan ka gid man sing tudo tungod nga nagahambal ka pareho sa malain nga tawo.
Gindugangan mo pa ang imo sala paagi sa pagrebelde sa Dios. Ginayaguta kag ginainsulto mo ang Dios sa amon atubangan.”
Gani hibaluon ta kon ano ang husto; tun-an ta kon ano ang maayo.
Kay nagsiling si Job, ‘Inosente ako pero wala ako ginhatagan sang Dios sang hustisya.
Bisan matarong ako, ginakabig ako nga butigon. Bisan wala ako sing sala nga nahimo, ginhatagan niya ako sang balatian nga wala sing kaayuhan.’
“Wala sing tawo nga pareho kay Job nga ginauhaw sa pagpang-insulto.
Nanamian siya mag-upod sa malain kag makasasala nga mga tawo.
Kay nagasiling siya, ‘Wala sing makuha ang tawo kon magtinguha siya sa paglipay sa Dios.’
Dayon nagsiling pa gid si Elihu,
Pero wala sila nagapanawag sa Dios nga naghimo sa ila kag nagahatag sa ila sang kusog sa tion sang kalisod.
Wala sila nagadangop sa Dios Wala sila nagadangop sa Dios nga naghimo sa ila nga mas maalam sang sa mga sapat kag mga pispis.
Kag kon magpanawag gid man sila, wala sila ginasabat sang Dios tungod mga bugalon sila kag malain nga mga tawo.
Huo, wala ginapamatian sang Makagagahom nga Dios ang ila pagpangayo sang bulig nga wala sing pulos.
Labi na gid nga indi niya pagpamatian ang imo pagpanawag, Job, Job, kon magsiling ka nga wala mo makita ang iya pagbulig sa imo kaso nga gindala sa iya kag sagi ka lang hulat sa iya.
Nagasiling ka pa nga wala nagasilot ang Dios bisan akig na siya, kag wala gid niya ginasapak ang kalautan nga ginahimo sang tawo.
Job, wala sing pulos ang imo mga ginapanghambal. Maathag gid gid nga wala ka kahibalo kon ano ang imo mga ginapanghambal.”
“Nagahunahuna ka bala nga husto ikaw sa imo pagsiling nga wala ka sing sala sa atubangan sang Dios?
Pero nagapamangkot ka man, ‘Ano ang makuha ko kon indi ako magpakasala?’
“Sabton ko ikaw kag ang imo mga abyan.
Tangla sa langit kag tan-awa sing maayo kon daw ano kataas ang mga panganod.
Kon nakasala ka, indi ina makaapekto sa Dios, bisan sige-sige pa ang imo pagpakasala.
Kag kon matarong ka, ano nga kaayuhan ang mahatag mo sa Dios?
Ang maapektuhan lang sang imo maayo ukon malain nga ginahimo amo ang imo isigkatawo.
“Ang mga ginadaogdaog nagapangayo sang bulig nga luwason sila sa kamot sang gamhanan nga mga tawo.
Nagpadayon pa gid si Elihu sa paghambal:
Ginapapamati niya sila sa iya nga pagpaandam, kag ginasugo niya sila nga magbiya sa ila kalautan.
Kon magtuman sila kag mag-alagad sa iya, magakabuhi sila nga mainuswagon kag malipayon sa bilog nila nga kabuhi.
Pero kon indi sila magtuman, mapatay sila sa inaway nga kulang sing pag-intiendi.
Ang mga indi diosnon nagasupot sang kaakig sa ila tagipusuon, kag bisan ginasilutan sila sang Dios, wala sila nagapangayo sang bulig sa iya.
Nagakalamatay sila sa kahuy-anan
Pero paagi sa mga pag-antos, ginatudluan sang Dios ang mga tawo. Nakatuon sila nga magpamati sa iya paagi sa mga kasakit.
“Ginalikaw ka sang Dios sa katalagman kag ginhatagan sang kahilwayan kag kabuganaan, kag mapuno liwat sang manamit nga pagkaon ang imo lamisa.
Pero karon ginaagom mo ang silot nga nagakabagay sa mga malain. Indi ka gid makalikaw sa hustisya.
Mag-andam ka nga indi ka maganyat sa manggad kag madala sa madamo nga kuwarta nga bilang lagay.
Makabulig bala ang imo manggad ukon ang imo ikasarang sa imo kalisod?
“Agwantaha pa ako sing makadali, kay may ara pa ako nga inughambal sa pagdepensa sa Dios.
Indi paghanduma ang kagab-ihon,
Mag-andam ka nga indi ka maghimo sang kalautan. Ginapaantos ka para makalikaw ka sa paghimo sini.
“Hunahunaa bala kon daw ano kagamhanan sang Dios. Wala sing manunudlo nga pareho sa iya.
Wala sing may makatudlo sa iya kon ano ang iya himuon, kag wala sing may makasiling sa iya nga nakasala siya.
Indi pagkalimti ang pagdayaw sa iya binuhatan pareho sang ginahimo sang iban sa ila nga pagkanta.
Nakita sang tanan nga tawo ang iya binuhatan, pero sa malayo-layo.
Gamhanan gid ang Dios, kag indi ta gid matungkad ang iya pagkagamhanan kag indi maisip kon pila na ang iya edad.
Ang Dios amo ang nagapasaka sang tubig halin sa duta kag ginahimo niya dayon ini nga ulan.
Nagabubo ang ulan halin sa mga panganod para sa mga tawo.
Wala sing may nakahibalo kon paano nagalapta ang mga mga panganod, kag kon paano nagadaguob ang langit nga sa diin nagaestar ang Dios.
Madamo ako sang nahibaluan kag pamatud-an ko sa imo nga ang Dios nga Dios nga nagtuga sa akon husto.
Tan-awa kon paano niya ginapakilat sa iya palibot, kag kon paano ini nagakirab hasta sa punta sang dagat.
Paagi sining gahom sang Dios gahom sang Dios , ginadumalahan niya ang mga nasyon kag ginahatagan sang bugana nga pagkaon ang mga tawo ang mga tawo .
Ginauyatan niya ang kilat kag ginasugo ini sa pag-igo sang iya iliguon.
Ang daguob nagapahibalo sang manug-abot nga bagyo, kag bisan ang mga baka nakahibalo nga may bagyo nga manug-abot.
Ginasiguro ko sa imo nga wala ako nagabutig, kay ako nga imo ginaatubang maalam gid.
“Gamhanan gid ang Dios, pero wala siya sing may ginainsulto. Nahibaluan niya ang tanan nga butang.
Wala niya ginatugutan nga magkabuhi ang malain, kag ginahatagan niya sang hustisya ang ginadaogdaog nga mga imol.
Wala niya ginapabay-an ang mga matarong. Ginapadunggan niya sila upod sa mga hari hasta san-o.
Pero kon ginapabudlayan sila, nga daw sa ginakadenahan,
ginapahayag sang Dios ang sala nga ginhimo nila nga may pagpabugal.
“Nagakubakuba ang akon dughan tungod sa sina nga bagyo nga bagyo .
Sa ginhawa sang Dios nagaporma ang yelo;
Ginapuno niya sang tubig ang mga panganod, kag ginapakilat ini.
Nagalibot-libot ang mga panganod sa bilog nga kalibutan suno sa mando sang Dios.
Nagapadala ang Dios sang mabaskog nga ulan sa paghatag sang tubig sa duta, ukon sa pagdisiplina sa tawo, ukon sa pagpakita sang iya gugma.
“Pamatii ini, Job, kag pamalandungi ang makatilingala nga mga butang nga ginahimo sang Dios.
Nakahibalo ka bala kon paano ginakontrolar sang Dios ang mga panganod kag kon paano niya ginapakirab ang kilat?
Nakahibalo ka bala kon paano nagalutaw-lutaw ang mga panganod sa ibabaw? Buhat ini sang makatilingala nga Dios nga ang iya kaalam wala sing limitasyon.
Ikaw nga nagapalamalhas tungod sa mainit nga hangin halin sa south,
makabulig ka bala sa Dios sa paghumlad sang panganod kag himuon ini nga matig-a pareho sa espiho nga saway?
Kon maalamon ka, Kon maalamon ka, sugiri kami kon ano ang dapat namon isiling sa Dios. Indi kami kahibalo kon paano namon ihambal ang amon rason kay nadulman ang amon panghunahuna.
Pamatii ninyo ang tingog sang Dios nga nagadaguhob.
Indi ako magsiling sa Dios nga magpakigbais ako sa iya, kay basi laglagon niya ako.
Wala sing tawo nga makatulok sa adlaw kay nagasilak ini sing masanag sa kalangitan kon mahawanan sang hangin ang mga panganod.
Halin sa north nagaguwa ang Dios nga nagabadlak pareho sa bulawan kag ang iya kasilaw makatilingala.
Indi ta matungkad ang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios nga labaw sa tanan. Matarong gid siya kag wala nagapamigos,
gani ginatahod siya sang mga tawo. Wala niya ginasapak ang mga tawo nga nagakabig sang ila kaugalingon nga mga maalam.”
Ginpakilat niya sa kalangitan hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan.
Dayon mabatian ang daguhob sang iya makusog nga tingog. Wala niya ginapunggan ang pagdaguhob sang iya tingog.
Makatilingala gid ang nagadaguhob nga tingog sang Dios. Nagahimo siya sang makatilingala nga mga butang nga indi ta matungkad.
Ginamanduan niya ang snow nga magtupa sa duta kag ang ulan nga mag-ulan sing mabaskog,
para makapahuway ang mga tawo sa ila obra kag makapamalandong sa mga ginahimo sang Dios.
Ang mga sapat nagapanago sa ila palanaguan kag nagapabilin sila didto sa panahon sang bagyo sa panahon sang bagyo .
Ang bagyo kag ang matugnaw nga hangin nagahalin sa ila sini talaguan.
Dayon nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Job halin sa buhawi,
Ginbutangan ko sang dulunan ang dagat; daw pareho lang nga ginsiradhan ko ini kag gintrangkahan.
Ginsilingan ko ang dagat, ang dagat, ‘Hasta ka lang diri kag indi ka na maglapaw pa; hasta lang diri ang imo dalagko nga mga balod.’
“ Job, Job, sa bilog mo nga kabuhi, nakasugo ka bala sa adlaw nga magbutlak sa kaagahon,
para ang kasanag sini magasilak sa bilog nga kalibutan kag magapauntat sa kalautan nga ginahimo sa kagab-ihon?
Tungod sa kasanag sini, ang kalibutan maathag pareho sa marka sang selyo ukon sang pinil-an sang bayo.
Ang kasanag nagadisturbo sa mga malain, kay indi sila makahalit sa iban.
“Nakakadto ka na bala sa mga tuburan sa kadadalman sang dagat ukon sa pinakamadalom nga parte sang dagat?
Napakita na bala sa imo ang mga puwertahan pakadto sa madulom nga lugar sang mga patay?
Nakahibalo ka bala kon daw ano kadako sang kalibutan? Sugiri ako kon nahibaluan mo ini tanan!
Nakahibalo ka bala kon sa diin nagahalin ang kasanag ukon ang kadulom?
“Sin-o ka nga magpangduhaduha sang akon kaalam? Ang imo mga ginapanghambal nagapakita lang nga wala ka sing may nahibaluan.
Kag mapabalik mo bala sila sa ila ginhalinan?
Nakahibalo ka man bala! Kay natawo ka man bala sang una pa kag dugay ka na sa kalibutan!
“Nakakadto ka na bala sa lugar nga ginahalinan sang snow ukon ulan nga yelo?
Ini nga mga yelo ginatigana ko para sa tion sang kagamo kag sa tion sang inaway.
Nakahibalo ka bala kon diin ang alagyan pakadto sa lugar nga ginahalinan sang kilat
Sin-o bala ang naghimo sang alagyan sang ulan kag sang bagyo?
Sin-o bala ang nagapadala sang ulan sa desierto, sa lugar nga wala sing may nagaestar nga tawo?
Sin-o bala ang nagapadala sang ulan sa kamingawan para magtubo ang mga hilamon?
Sin-o bala ang ginhalinan
kag sang yelo nga halin sa langit?
Karon, Karon, ihanda ang imo kaugalingon, kag sabta ang akon mga pamangkot.
Nagayelo ang tubig pareho katig-a sang bato, pati ang ibabaw nga parte sang dagat.
Mahigot mo bala ukon mahubad ang grupo sang mga bituon nga ginatawag grupo sang mga bituon nga ginatawag Pleades kag Orion?
Matuytuyan mo bala ang mga bituon sa pagguwa sa ila husto nga tion? Matuytuyan mo man bala ang grupo sang mga bituon nga ginatawag grupo sang mga bituon nga ginatawag Dako kag Gamay nga mga Bear?
Nahibaluan mo bala ang mga sistema nga nagagahom sa kalangitan? Maplastar mo bala ina nga mga sistema diri sa kalibutan?
Makamando ka bala sa mga panganod nga paulanan ka sing madamol?
Makasugo ka bala sa kilat sa pagkirab? Mapatuman mo bala ini sa imo?
Sin-o ang nagahatag sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi sa tawo?
Sin-o bala ang maalam nga makaisip sang mga panganod? Sin-o bala ang makaula sang tubig halin sa langit
nga makapabilog sang yab-ok?
“Ikaw bala ang nagapangita sang kalan-on sang mga leon kag nagabusog sa ila
Sa diin ka bala sang ginhimo ko ang pundasyon sang kalibutan? Sugiri ako kon may nahibaluan ka.
samtang nagapahuway sila sa ila mga palanaguan ukon sa mga kahoy-kahoy?
Sin-o bala ang nagapakaon sa mga uwak kon ginagutom sila kag kon ang ila mga buto mangayo sang pagkaon sa akon?
Nakahibalo ka bala kon sin-o ang nagbuot sang kadakuon sang sini nga pundasyon ukon ang nagtakos sini? Nakahibalo ka man bala!
Ano bala ang nagasuportar sa pundasyon sang kalibutan? Kag sin-o ang nagbutang sang sini nga pundasyon
samtang nagakinanta sing tingob ang mga bituon sa kaagahon kag nagahinugyaw sa kalipay ang tanan nga anghel?
Sin-o bala ang nagpat-od sang dulunan sang dagat sang magsagawak ini halin sa kadadalman?
Ako ang nagtabon sa dagat sang mga panganod kag sang kadulom.
“Nakahibalo ka bala kon san-o nagabata ang talunon nga mga kanding? Nakabantay ka bala sang pagbata sang mga usa?
Mahigtan mo bala siya kag mapaarado sa imo uma?
Makasalig ka bala sa iya kusog para obrahon niya ang imo mabug-at nga ulobrahon?
Makasalig ka bala sa iya nga tipunon niya kag hakuton ang imo patubas pakadto sa linasan?
“Katahom tulukon sang pakpak sang ostrich kon magkapay-kapay ini, pero indi ini makatupong sa katahom sang pakpak sang tulabong.
Ginabayaan sang ostrich ang iya mga itlog sa duta para mainit-initan ini.
Wala siya nagakabalaka nga basi matapakan ini ukon matasak sang talunon nga sapat.
Mapintas siya sa iya mga piso, nga daw indi ini iya. Wala siya nagakabalaka kon ang iya pinangabudlayan mangin wala sing pulos.
Kay wala ko siya ginhatagan sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi.
Pero kon magdalagan na gani siya, ginakadlawan lang niya ang kabayo kag ang nagasakay sini.
“Ikaw bala, Job, Job, ang nagahatag sang kusog sa kabayo? Ikaw bala ang naghatag sang bungay-bungay
Ginaisip mo bala ang mga binulan sang ila pagbusong hasta makabata sila? Kag nahibaluan mo bala kon san-o gid sila mabata?
Ikaw bala ang nagapalumpat sa iya pareho sa apan kag nagapahadlok sa mga tawo sang iya pusnga?
Nagapangahig siya nga may kapagsik,
Wala siya sing may ginakahadlukan, kag wala siya nagapalagyo sa espada.
Nagalinagatik kag nagabadlak ang mga armas sang nagasakay sa iya.
Puwerte ang tap-ok sang yab-ok sa kadasig sang iya pagdalagan. Indi siya mapunggan kon magtunog na ang budyong.
Nagahirihiri siya pagkabati niya sang tunog sang budyong. Makapanimaho siya sang inaway bisan malayo pa siya, kag mabatian niya ang mga sininggit sa inaway kag ang mga mando sang mga kumander.
“Ikaw bala ang nagatudlo sa dapay sa paglupad kag sa pagkadto sa south?
Ikaw bala ang nagamando sa agila sa paglupad kag sa paghimo sang iya pugad sa mataas nga lugar?
Didto nagaestar ang agila sa pil-as; ang mataas nga mga bato amo ang iya palanaguan.
Didto siya nagatan-aw sang iya mabiktima, kag makita niya ini bisan malayo siya.
Nagaluko sila kag nagapasakit hasta nga makabata.
Kon may makita siya nga bangkay ginakadtuan niya, kag ang iya mga buto nagasuyop sang dugo sang sini nga bangkay.”
Pagdako sang ila bata sa kamingawan, nagalakat ini kag wala na nagabalik.
Sin-o bala ang naghatag sang kahilwayan sa talunon nga donkey?
Ako ang naghatag sa iya sang kamingawan nga iya elistaran; ginapaestar ko siya sa duta nga ginpabay-an na.
Nagapalayo siya sa magahod nga siyudad kag indi niya gusto nga antaon.
Nagalibot-libot siya sa kabukiran sa pagpangita sang iya mahalab.
“Mapaobra mo bala ang talunon nga baka? Magpabilin bala siya sa ginapakan-an mo sa iya kon gab-i?
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Job,
Kon makahimo ka sina, ipakita ang imo pagkagamhanan, pagkahalangdon, kag pagkadungganon.
Ilubong sila tanan sa duta, sa lugar sang mga patay.
Kon mahimo mo ina, ako mismo ang magdayaw sa imo, kag batunon ko nga may ikasarang ka sa pagluwas sang imo kaugalingon.
“Tan-awa bala ang sapat nga Behemot,
pero tama siya kakusog. Ang iya lawas puwerte kabakod.
Ang iya ikog pareho sa kahoy nga sedro, kag ang iya mga paa maskulado.
Ang iya mga tul-an pareho kabakod kabakod sang tubo nga saway ukon kabilya.
Makatilingala siya sa tanan ko nga tinuga, pero ako nga nagtuga sa iya makapierdi sa iya.
“Ako ang Dios nga Makagagahom. Pero nagapakigbais ka sa akon nga sala ako. Karon magsabat ka sa akon.”
Nagahalab siya sa mga kabukiran samtang nagahampang ang talunon nga mga sapat malapit sa iya.
Nagaluko siya sa puno sang tunukon nga mga tanom, nga natabunan sang matag-as nga mga hilamon.
Ang tunukon nga mga tanom kag ang iban pa nga mga tanom sa higad sang ililigan sang tubig nagahatag sa iya sang palasilungan.
Wala siya nahadlok sa nagahuganas nga suba. Kalma lang siya bisan daw matabunan na siya sang tubig sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Sin-o bala ang makadakop sa iya paagi sa pagbulag sa iya? Sin-o bala ang makatuhog sang iya ilong paagi sa pagsiod sa iya?
Gani nagsabat si Job sa Ginoo Ginoo ,
“Indi ako takos nga magsabat sa imo nga magsabat sa imo . Ano ang isabat ko? Mahipos na lang ako.
Madamo na ang akon ginhambal. Indi na ako magpadayon sa paghambal.”
Dayon nagsiling liwat liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Job halin sa buhawi,
“Ihanda ang imo kaugalingon, kag sabta ang akon mga pamangkot.
Gusto mo bala pamatud-an nga indi ako matarong para magaguwa nga ikaw ang matarong?
Gamhanan ka bala pareho sa akon? Makadaguhob bala ang imo tingog pareho sa akon?
“ Job, Job, mabunit mo bala ang dragon nga dragon nga Leviatan? Ukon mahigtan mo bala ang iya baba
Kon wala gani sing mangahas sa pagtublag sa iya, ti sin-o pa ayhan ang mangahas sa pagkontra sa akon?
Sin-o ang makasiling nga may utang nga kabalaslan ako sa iya? Ang tanan diri sa kalibutan akon.
“Sugiran ko pa gid ikaw parte sa lawas sang Leviatan kag kon ano siya kagamhanan kag kakusog.
Sin-o bala ang makakakas sang iya panit ukon makadulot sini?
Sin-o bala ang makapanganga sa iya? Kay ang iya mga ngipon makahaladlok!
Ang iya likod daw sa may nagaraya nga mga taming nga nagatapikanay;
Kon magpusnga siya nagakirab, kag ang iya mga mata nagasiga pareho sang sanag sang kaagahon.
Nagabuga siya sang kalayo,
Matuhog mo bala sang kalat ang iya ilong? Ukon makaw-itan mo bala sang taga ang iya sag-ang?
kag nagaguwa ang aso sa iya ilong pareho sang aso sa nagabukal nga kolon nga may nagadabadaba nga gatong.
Ang iya ginhawa makapabaga sang uling, kay kalayo ang nagaguwa sa iya baba.
Makusog ang iya liog, kag ang makakita sa iya nahadlok gid.
Bisan ang iya nagawilwig nga unod matibsol kag matig-a.
Matig-a ang iya tagipusuon pareho sa galingan nga bato.
Kon magbangon siya nagasalasala sa kahadlok ang gamhanan nga mga tawo.
Wala sing espada, bangkaw, pana ukon sibat nga makahalit sa iya.
Para sa iya ang salsalon daw sa dagami lang kahumok, lang kahumok, kag ang saway daw sa gabok nga kahoy.
Kon panaon siya wala siya nagapalagyo. Ang mga bato nga ginalabyog sa iya daw upa lang para sa iya.
Ang kahoy nga inugbakol daw dagami lang para sa iya. Kag ginakadlawan lang niya ang hagunos sang bangkaw nga ginahaboy sa iya.
Magapakitluoy bala siya permi sa imo nga buy-an mo siya? Ukon magapangabay bala siya sa imo nga kaluoyan mo siya?
Ang iya tiyan may mga himbis nga matalom nga daw sa buka nga botelya. Gani kon magkamang siya sa lunang, nagamarka ang iya inagyan nga daw sa inagyan sang tapi nga panglinas nga may mga ulounto.
Ginapaalimbukad niya ang dagat pareho sa nagaindakal nga tubig sa kolon ukon sang nagabukal nga lana sa kaldero.
Ang tubig nga iya maagyan nagabukal sing maputi, nga kon tan-awon daw maputi nga buhok.
Wala sing pareho sa iya diri sa kalibutan. Isa siya ka tinuga nga wala sing kahadlok.
Ginapakanubo niya ang tanan nga bugalon nga mga sapat nga mga sapat . Ginaharian niya ang tanan nga matinaas-taason.”
Magahimo bala siya sang kasugtanan sa imo nga magpaulipon siya sa imo sa bilog niya nga kabuhi?
Mahimo mo bala siya nga alaga pareho sa pispis ukon mahatag sa imo kabataan
Mabakal bala siya sang mga negosyante kag kihadkiharon para ibaligya?
Madutlan mo bala ang iya panit ukon ang iya ulo sang sibat?
Kon madakop mo siya, indi mo gid malipatan ang kabudlay sa pagdakop sa iya, kag indi mo na ini liwat paghimuon.
Wala sing pulos ang pagtinguha sa pagdakop sa iya. Pagkakita mo pa lang sa iya madulaan ka na sang kaisog.
Dayon nagsabat si Job sa Ginoo Ginoo ,
Sa tapos pangamuyo ni Job sa iya mga abyan, ginpauswag siya liwat sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginhatagan sing doble pa sang sa nabaton niya sang una.
Dayon ang tanan niya nga utod kag ang tanan niya nga abyan sadto nagkadto sa iya balay kag nagkinaon upod sa iya. Ginlipay nila si Job tungod sa tanan nga kalisod nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya. Kag ang kada isa sa ila naghatag sa iya sang kuwarta kag bulawan nga singsing.
Gani ginpakamaayo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ulihi nga parte sang kabuhi ni Job sobra pa sang sa una. Ginhatagan niya siya sang 14,000 ka karnero, 6,000 ka camel, 1,000 ka paris sang mga baka, kag 1,000 ka donkey nga babayi.
Ginhatagan man niya siya sang pito pa ka anak nga lalaki kag tatlo pa ka anak nga babayi.
Ang kamagulangan niya nga anak nga babayi amo si Jemima, sunod si Kezia kag dayon si Keren Hapuc.
Wala sing babayi nga pareho sa ila kaguwapa sa bilog nila nga lugar.
Halin sadto, nagkabuhi si Job sing 140 pa ka tuig, kag nakita pa niya ang iya mga kaliwat hasta sa ikaapat nga henerasyon.
Tigulang na gid siya sang mapatay siya.
“Nahibaluan ko nga mahimo mo ang bisan ano nga butang, kag wala sing may makapugong sa imo.
Ginpamangkot mo ako kon ngaa nagapangduhaduha ako sa imo kaalam nga wala man lang ako sing may nahibaluan. Matuod nga naghambal ako sang mga butang nga wala ko maintiendihan, mga butang nga indi ko matungkad.
Nagpakighambal ka mismo sa akon kag nagsiling ka nga magpamati ako sa imo kag sabton ko ang imo mga pamangkot.
Sadto anay nabatian ko lang sa iban ang parte sa imo, pero subong nakita ko mismo ikaw.
Gani nahuya ako sang tanan ko nga ginhambal parte sa imo, kag ginahinulsulan ko ini paagi sa pagpungko sa yab-ok kag sa abo.”
Sa tapos mahambal sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Job ini nga mga butang, nagsiling siya kay Elifaz nga taga-Teman, “Naakig ako sa imo kag sa imo duha ka abyan, kay wala kamo maghambal sing husto parte sa akon pareho sang ginhimo ni Job nga akon alagad.
Gani karon magkuha kamo sang pito ka turo nga baka kag pito ka karnero nga lalaki kag magkadto kamo kay Job, kag ihalad ninyo ini bilang halad nga ginasunog para sa inyo kaugalingon. Magapangamuyo si Job para sa inyo kag sabton ko ang iya pangamuyo kag indi ko kamo pagsilutan sang nagakabagay sa inyo kabuangan. Wala kamo maghambal sing husto parte sa akon pareho sang ginhimo ni Job nga akon alagad.”
Gani ginhimo ni Elifaz nga taga-Teman, ni Bildad nga taga-Shua, kag ni Zofar nga taga-Naama ang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila. Kag ginsabat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pangamuyo ni Job.
kag wala nagaupod sa mga tawo nga nagapangyaguta.
kag adlaw-gab-i ang iya pagpamalandong sini.
Ang tawo nga pareho sini magauswag sa iya mga ginahimo.
pareho sa upa nga ginapalid lang sang hangin.
kag indi sila pag-isimpon sa komunidad sang mga matarong.
pero ang pagkabuhi sang mga malain nagadala sa ila sa kalaglagan.
Ngaa bala nagaplano sila sang wala sing pulos?
kag pamatii ninyo ang mga paandam kontra sa inyo.
kag magkalipay kamo sa iya.
nga nagapangayo sang proteksyon sa Ginoo Ginoo .
kag sa hari nga iya ginpili.
ukon magpasakop sa ila.”
nga nagapungko sa iya trono didto sa langit.
Sa iya kaakig, ginapaandaman niya sila kag nagakahadlok sila.
sa akon balaan
‘Ikaw ang akon anak, kag subong ipakilala ko nga ako ang imo amay.
para imo panag-iyahan, kag himuon ko ina.
Mangin pareho lang sila sa kolon nga imo pagadugmukon.’ ”
kadamo sang nagakontra sa akon!
Nagasiling pa sila nga indi mo kuno ako pagluwason.
kag ginapabakod mo ako.
kag ginasabat mo ako sa imo balaan
makatulog ako kag makamata pa.
indi ako mahadlok.
ginkuha mo ang ila ikasarang sa paghalit sa akon.
kag nagapakamaayo sa imo katawhan.
Gani karon, Gani karon, pamatii ang akon mga pangamuyo kag kaluoyi ako.
kag sa pagsunod sa kabutigan?
Amo gani nga Amo gani nga pamatian niya ako kon magpanawag ako sa iya.
Kag samtang nagahigda kamo, magpakalinong kamo kag magpamalandong.
kag maghalad sa iya sing husto nga mga halad.
Ipakita ang imo kaayo sa amon!”
nga bugana ang ila mga uyas kag duga sang ubas.
tungod kay ginabantayan mo ako, Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginoo Ginoo , pamatii ang akon pangamuyo nga may pag-ugayong.
kay nagrebelde sila sa imo.
para magmalipayon sila tungod sang imo ginhimo para sa ila.
Ang imo gugma nagaprotektar sa ila pareho sa taming.
kay sa imo ako nagapangamuyo.
nagahulat ako sang imo sabat.
wala mo ginabaton ang malain nga mga tawo.
ginakaugtan mo ang tanan nga nagahimo sang malain.
kag ginakangil-aran ang mga nagapamatay sang tawo kag ang mga traidor.
Kag didto simbahon ko ikaw nga may pagtahod.
kag himua nga mahapos ang akon pagsunod sa imo pamaagi.
Ang ila mga ginasugid
Ginoo Ginoo , bisan nangakig ka sa akon, indi ako pagsiluti.
Gulpi lang sila magpalalagyo sa kahuya.
Kaluoyi ako kag ayuha, kay puwerte na sa akon kaluya.
San-o mo pa bala ako ayuhon?
Tungod sang imo gugma sa akon, luwasa ako sa kamatayon.
indi na ako makadayaw sa imo sa lugar sang mga patay.
Kada gab-i basa ang akon ulunan sang luha.
tungod sang ginhimo sang tanan ko nga kaaway.
tungod kay nabatian sang Ginoo Ginoo ang akon mga paghibi.
Kag sabton niya ang akon pangamuyo.
Luwasa ako sa mga nagasalakay sa akon,
Ginaluwas mo ang mga nagakabuhi sing husto.
kag adlaw-adlaw akig ka sa mga malain sa mga malain .
amo gani nga nagapangdaya sila.
Kantahan ko ikaw sang mga pagdayaw, Labing Mataas nga Dios.
kag wala sing may makaluwas sa akon.
kon nakahimo gid man ako sing malain sa akon isigkatawo,
nga wala man lang sing kabangdanan,
kag bayaan ang akon bangkay sa duta.
kay hustisya man ang ginapangita mo.
kag dumalahan mo sila halin sa langit.
kag wala ako sing may ginhimo nga malain.
kag ginausisa mo ang amon amon mga hunahuna kag tagipusuon.
Ang pagdayaw sa imo sang mga tawo mabatian mo dira sa langit.
ang mga kontra nga buot magbalos.
nga imo ginbutang sa ila nahamtangan,
Ahaw tawo man lang siya, ngaa ginakabalak-an mo gid?
pero ginpadunggan mo siya pareho sa hari.
ginpasakop mo sa iya ini tanan nga butang,
ang nagalupad, kag ang nagalangoy.
daw ano ka kahalangdon sa bilog nga kalibutan!
Isugid ko ang tanan mo nga makatilingala nga mga binuhatan.
Kay sila nga mga nagadangop sa imo wala mo ginasikway.
Isugid ninyo sa mga nasyon ang iya mga binuhatan!
ginabalusan niya ang mga nagapaantos sa ila.
Kaluoyi ako kag luwasa sa kamatayon,
Magakalipay ako didto didto tungod kay ginluwas mo ako.
ukon nasiod sila sa siod nga ila ginbutang.
ang nahalitan sang ila malain nga mga ginahimo.
kay ginasikway nila ang Dios.
nga luwason sila sang Dios nga luwason sila sang Dios .
Hukmi ang mga nasyon sa imo presensya.
kag magakanta sang mga pagdayaw tungod sa imo.
kag ipareyalisar sa ila nga mga tawo lamang sila.
kag magakalamatay sila.
kag napamatud-an mo nga wala ako sing sala.
gani indi na gid sila madumduman hasta san-o.
kag indi na gid sila madumduman pa.
handa na ang imo trono sa paghukom.
nga wala ka sing may pinilian.
sa tion sang kalisod.
Ngaa bala nagapanago ka sa tion sang kalisod?
hasta nga indi na ini makabangon.
kag wala gid niya makita ang ila ginahimo.
Indi pagpabay-i ang mga kubos.
Nagasiling pa sila nga indi mo kuno sila pagsilutan.
kag ginabuligan mo sila.
Siluti sila sa ila mga kalautan hasta nga untatan na nila ini.
nga imo gintuga gintuga .
Sabta ang ila pangamuyo kag palig-una sila.
para indi na sila pagpahugon sang tawo nga halin man lang sa duta.
ang ila ginaplano nga malain sa iban.
Sila nga mga dalok nagapakamalaot kag nagayaguta sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo .
Wala gid sila nagahunahuna parte sa imo.
Ginahikayan pa nila ang tanan nila nga kaaway.
kag wala sing malain nga matabo sa ila.
nga makahalit sa iban.
nga nagabantay sa mga inosente nga magaagi para patyon nila.
kag kon madakop na gani nila ginaguyod nila dayon.
“Palagyo ka sa mga bukid pareho sa pispis,
para panaon ang mga nagakabuhi sing husto.
kon wala na sing kahusayan ang banwa?”
Ginatan-aw niya kag ginausisa ang tanan nga tawo.
Ginakaugtan niya ang mga mapintas.
nga magapaso sa ila.
Gani ang mga nagakabuhi sing husto makapalapit sa iya presensya.
kay wala na sing may nabilin nga matutom kag masaligan.
Ginadayaw-dayaw nila ang iban para dayaan.
ang mga nagadayaw-dayaw sa iban kag ang mga nagapahambog
kag wala sing may makapauntat sa amon.”
Protektaran ko sila kay amo ini ang ginahandom nila.”
tungod kay ginpapuraw sa kalayo sing makapito ka beses.
kag ilikaw kami sa mga malain sa tanan nga tion.
kag ginadayaw pa sang mga tawo ang kalautan.
Hasta san-o pa bala nga magpanago ka sa akon?
Kag hasta san-o pa bala nga pierdihon ako sang akon mga kaaway?
Ibalik ang akon kusog
Kay Kay magakalipay gid sila kon malaglag ako.
Kag magakalipay gid ako tungod kay luwason mo ako.
tungod kay halin pa sadto maayo ka sa akon.
Wala sing bisan isa sa ila nga nagahimo sing maayo.
kag nagadangop sa iya.
Wala gid sing bisan isa nga nagahimo sing maayo.
kag wala sila nagapangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo .
kay pangapinan sang Dios ang mga matarong.
pero ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagaprotektar sa mga kubos.
kon ibalik na niya ang ila maayo nga kahimtangan.
Sin-o bala ang puwede nga makapabilin
Nagahambal siya sing matuod kag sinsero.
kag wala siya nagahimo ukon nagahambal sing malain sa iya isigkatawo.
bisan ano kabudlay para sa iya.
ang iya kahimtangan hasta san-o.
kay sa imo ako nagapangayo sang proteksyon.
ang imo matutom nga alagad.
wala sing katapusan ang akon kalipay sa tupad mo.
ang tanan nga maayo nga nabaton ko.
dako ang akon kalipay sa ila.
sang sina nga mga dios-dios.
Ang akon kabuhi ara sa imo mga kamot.
Huo, maayo gid ang akon mga nabaton sa imo.
Bisan kon gab-i ang akon konsensya nagatudlo sa akon.
Kag tungod nga ara ka sa akon tupad, indi ako matublag.
Kag magakabuhi ako nga luwas sa katalagman,
Pamatii ang akon sinsero nga pangamuyo.
kag matinaas-taason kon maghambal.
nga laglagon ako.
nga handa sa paggus-ab sa iya mabiktima.
Luwasa ako sa ila paagi sa imo gahom.
Kag tigan-i man sang silot ang ila mga apo.
Pagbugtaw ko malipay gid ako sa akon pagkakita sa imo.
gani ikaw ang makahukom nga wala ako sing sala.
Nagdesisyon ako nga indi maghambal sing malain
nalikawan ko ang pagpamintas.
kag wala ako magsipak sa sini.
Pamatii ang akon pangamuyo.
nga nagapangayo sang proteksyon sa imo tungod sang ila mga kaaway.
sa idalom sang iya mga pakpak.
nga nagasalakay sa akon palibot para patyon ako.
Ginahigugma ko ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo . Ikaw ang akon kusog.
kag ang nagadabadaba nga mga baga.
nagdaguob sa langit.
kag makita man man ang pundasyon sang kalibutan.
kag wala ako nagbiya sa imo Ginoo Ginoo , nga akon Dios.
ang pader nga nagapalibot sa siyudad nga nagapalibot sa siyudad .
sa tanan nga nagapangayo sang proteksyon sa imo.
pareho abi sa pagbinat sang mabakod nga pana.
kag paagi sa imo bulig nangin bantog ako.
Gintasak-tasak ko sila pareho sa lunang sa dalan.
Nagaluhod sila sa akon sa kahadlok.
Ginapakataas ko ikaw, O Dios nga akon manluluwas.
kag ang iya mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
kag nagapakita sang iya ginhimo.
Kag mas matam-is pa sang sa puro gid nga honey.
Kag kon ginatuman ko ini makabaton ako sang dako nga balos.
nga wala ko mahibalui!
kag hilway sa madamo nga klase sang mga sala.
nga akon palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato kag manunubos.
daw sa nagasugid parte sa gahom sang Dios.
Wala sing pulong ukon tingog nga mabatian sa ila,
Naghimo ang Dios sa kalangitan sang elistaran sang adlaw.
ukon pareho sa kampyon nga manugdalagan, nga handa sa pagdalagan.
Kag wala sing may makapanago sa iya nga init.
kag nagahatag sang kaalam sa mga wala sing alam.
kag nagapasanag sa hunahuna sang tawo.
Ang paghukom sang Ginoo Ginoo sigurado kag matarong.
Kabay pa nga protektaran ka sang Dios ni Jacob.
Kabay pa nga buligan niya ikaw halin sa templo didto sa Zion.
pati na ang imo halad nga ginasunog.
kag mangin madinalag-on ka sa imo mga plano.
Kabay pa nga ihatag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan mo nga ginapangayo.
kag permi niya siya ginapadaog paagi sa iya gahom.
pero kami ya nagasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
pero kami ya magadaog kag magapabilin nga mabakod.
kag sabta kami kon magpanawag kami
tungod kay ginpadaog mo siya.
kag wala gid sing may mabilin sa ila.
pero indi gid sila magmadinalag-on.
kag ginapuntirya sa ila ang imo pana.
tungod sang imo gahom.
wala mo siya pagdaluki sa iya ginapangayo.
Ginkoronahan mo siya sang korona nga puro gid bulawan.
kag ginhatagan mo siya sang malawig gid nga kabuhi.
nangin bantog kag dungganon gid siya.
Ginlipay mo gid siya sang imo presensya,
Kag tungod sang imo paghigugma sa iya indi siya matay-og.
Ang imo gahom amo ang magapierdi sang tanan mo nga mga kaaway.
Sa imo nga kaakig ipalamon mo sila sa kalayo.
pero wala mo man lang gihapon ako ginabuligan.
sa imo ako gintugyan kag ikaw lang ang akon Dios.
kag wala sing may magbulig sa akon.
pareho sila sa makusog nga mga turo nga baka sang Bashan.
nga handa na sa paggus-ab.
pareho ako sa kandila nga nagakatunaw.
Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , ginapabay-an mo ako nga daw mapatay.
Ginbuhuan nila ang akon mga kamot kag mga tiil.
kag ginatulok lang nila ako.
kag gin-gabot-gabutan nila ang akon pangsulod nga bayo.
Ikaw nga akon kusog, buligi ako gilayon.
gani wala ako sing kapahuwayan.
luwasa ang akon kabuhi sa kamot sang sina nga mga ido.
nga luwason mo ako sa mga sungay sinang turo nga mga baka.
Dayawon ko ikaw sa ila mga pagtililipon.
padunggi kag kahadluki ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo !
kundi ginapamatian niya ang ila pagpangayo sang bulig.
tumanon ko ang akon ginpromisa nga maghalad sa imo.
Kabay pa nga mangin maayo kag malawig ang ila kabuhi.
Simbahon ka sang tanan nga katawhan
kag ikaw ang nagadumala sang mga nasyon.
Kag atong mga nagkalamatay na,
kag ginadayaw sang mga Israelinhon.
ang palaabuton nga mga henerasyon.
kag ikaw gid ang naghimo sini.
Nagsalig sa imo ang amon mga katigulangan kag ginluwas mo sila.
Nagsalig sila sa imo kag wala sila mapaslawi.
Nagasiling sila nga Nagasiling sila nga daw sa ulod
kag nagalungo-lungo sila nga nagasiling,
ti ngaa wala ka niya pagbuligi?”
kag halin sang lapsag pa ako ginahalungan mo na ako.
gani indi ako pagkulangon.
kag ginatuytuyan sa malinaw nga tubig.
Ginatuytuyan mo ako sa husto nga dalan para mapadunggan ka.
kag nagapabaskog sa akon.
Kag ginapagustuhan mo ako sang ilimnon.
Ang kalibutan kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini iya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Huo, siya ang gamhanan nga Hari.
Kay siya ang nagtukod sang pundasyon sang kalibutan sa mga tubig.
Sin-o bala ang puwede nga makasulod sa iya balaan nga templo?
kag wala nagasumpa sing butig.
ang Dios nga iya manluluwas.
kag nagasimba sa Dios ni Jacob.
para makasulod ang gamhanan nga Hari!
Siya amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga makusog kag mabakod sa inaway.
sa mga nagasunod sa ginapatuman sang imo kasugtanan.
para mapadunggan ka.
tudluan mo sang dalan nga dapat nila agyan.
kag ang ila mga kaliwat padayon nga magaestar sa duta
kag ginapadumdom mo sila sang imo kasugtanan.
kay ikaw ang nagaluwas sa akon sa katalagman.
kay nagaisahanon ako kag ginadaogdaog.
hilwaya ako sa akon mga pagpalibog.
kag patawara ang tanan ko nga sala.
kag kon daw ano ang ila pagdumot sa akon.
Indi ako pagpakahuy-i, kay sa imo ako nagapangayo sang proteksyon.
Kay nagasalig ako sa imo.
Luwasa, O Dios, ang mga Israelinhon sa tanan nila nga kalisod.
pero ang nagaluib sa imo nga wala man lang sing kabangdanan mahuy-an.
Ginoo Ginoo , tudlui ako sang imo mga pamaagi.
Ikaw ang akon ginasaligan permi.
nga imo ginpakita halin pa gid sang una.
para mapakita mo ang imo kaayo.
gani ginatudluan mo ang mga makasasala sang imo imo pamaagi.
Ginatudluan mo sila sang imo pamaagi.
kag nagasalig ako sa imo nga wala gid sing pagpangduhaduha.
kag ginakuwartahan nila ang iban.
gani gani luwasa ako kag kaluoyi.
sa pagtililipon sang imo katawhan.
usisaa ang akon hunahuna kag tagipusuon.
kag nagakabuhi ako nga matutom permi sa imo.
Wala ako nagaupod sa mga tawo nga dayaon kag hipokrito.
Indi gid ako mag-upod sa ila.
sa pagsimba sa imo, sa pagsimba sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo ,
kag nagasugid sang tanan mo nga makatilingala nga mga binuhatan.
ang lugar nga sa diin ara ang imo gamhanan nga presensya.
pareho sang mga manugpatay sang tawo.
gani wala ako sing kahadlukan.
tatapon mo ako, Ginoo Ginoo .
tungod kay ginabantayan ako sang akon mga kaaway.
kag gusto nila ako nga halitan.
samtang nagakabuhi ako diri sa duta.
Magsalig lang kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo !
sila ang mapierdi kag indi ako.
magasalig gihapon ako sa Dios sa Dios .
kag magapangayo sang iya pagtuytoy.
Ipahamtang niya ako sa lugar nga luwas ako sa katalagman.
Magakanta ako sa iya!
kaluoyi ako kag sabta ang akon pangamuyo.
gani nagdangop ako sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo .
O Dios nga akon manluluwas.
Kay kon indi ka magpamati mangin pareho ako sa mga nagkalamatay na.
nga nagabayaw sang akon mga kamot.
pero gali nagaplano sila sing malain.
Siluti sila sa ila malain nga mga ginahimo.
Gani laglagon mo sila kag pabay-an sa sina nga kahimtangan.
kay ginpamatian mo ang akon pagpakitluoy sa imo.
Gani nagakalipay gid ako kag nagakanta sang pagpasalamat sa imo.
Ikaw ang mabakod nga dalangpan kag manluluwas sang imo pinili.
atipana sila hasta san-o.
Nagagahom siya bilang hari hasta san-o.
kag ginahatagan sang maayo nga kahimtangan.
Nagadaguob ini sa ibabaw sang mabaskog nga dagat.
Ang iya tingog gamhanan kag halangdon,
kag makabali sang mga kahoy nga sedro sang Lebanon.
kag daw pareho ini sang bataon nga talunon nga baka nga nagatumbo.
Ang tingog sang Ginoo Ginoo nagapakilat
bisan pa ang kamingawan sang Kadesh.
“Gamhanan ang Dios ang Dios !”
sa akon kahimtangan kahimtangan .
Ginoo Ginoo , pamatii ako kag kaluoyi. Buligi ako!”
kag ginhatagan mo ako sang kalipay,
Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, pasalamatan ko ikaw hasta san-o.
kag gin-ayo mo ako.
Wala mo pagtuguti nga mapatay ako.
Dayawa ninyo siya bilang pagdumdom sa iya pagkabalaan.
pero pag-abot sang kaagahon magakalipay kita.
nagsiling ako nga indi gid ako maano.
Pero sang nagpanago ka sa akon, hinadlukan ako.
Siling ko, Siling ko,
Makasugid bala siya sang imo katutom?
Luwasa ako tungod kay matarong ka.
kag daw nagakamudmod na ang akon mga tul-an.
Kon makita nila ako sa dalan nagapalagyo sila.
nga wala na sing pulos nga wala na sing pulos .
kay nagaplano sila nga patyon ako.
Ikaw ang akon Dios.
nga nagahingabot sa akon.
tungod nga ginahigugma mo ako, luwasa ako.
para para magpakalinong sila sa lulubngan.
nga nagapabugal kag nagainsulto sa mga matarong.
ginapakitaan mo sang kaayo ang mga nagapangayo sang proteksyon sa imo.
depensahi ako pareho sa mabakod nga palanaguan.
kag didto luwas sila sa pagpanglibak
sang didto ako sa ginasalakay nga siyudad.
sang nagpangayo ako sang bulig sa imo.
pero ginasilutan niya sing puwerte gid ang mga matinaas-taason.
kamo nga nagalaom sa Ginoo Ginoo .
tuytuyi kag ubayi ako para mapadunggan ka.
kay ikaw ang akon mabakod nga dalangpan.
Luwasa ako, Ginoo Ginoo , Dios nga masaligan.
kay nagasalig ako sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo .
kag nahibaluan mo ang akon mga kalisod.
ginluwas mo ako sa katalagman.
kag nagapalangluya na ako.
nga ang iya mga sala wala na ginadumdom sang Dios.
pero ang nagasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo higugmaon gid niya.
maghinugyaw kamo sa kalipay!
kag wala sing sala nga natago sa iya tagipusuon.
tungod sang akon pag-ugayong sa bilog nga adlaw.
pareho nga nabulad ako sa init sa tingadlaw.
kag ginpatawad mo ako.
para kon mag-abot ang kalisod nga daw sa baha, indi sila maano.
tungod sang imo pagluwas sa akon sa akon .
Laygayan ko ikaw samtang nagabantay ako sa imo.
nagakabagay nga dayawon ninyo siya!
Wala niya ginatuguti nga madayon ang ila mga katuyuan.
ang iya mga katuyuan nagapabilin hasta san-o.
Bulahan Bulahan ang katawhan nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga mangin iya.
ang tanan nga tawo.
ang tanan nga nagapuyo sa kalibutan.
kag nahibaluan niya ang tanan nila nga ginahimo.
tungod lang sang iya puwerte nga kusog.
Ang ila puwerte nga kusog indi makaluwas.
nga nagasalig sa iya gugma
kag magatipig sang ila kabuhi sa tion sang gutom.
nga may mga kuwerdas.
Siya ang nagabulig kag nagaprotektar sa aton.
kay nagasalig kita sa iya, ang balaan nga Dios.
subong nga nagasalig kami sa imo.
kag maghinugyaw kamo sa kalipay.
kag masaligan ang tanan niya nga ginahimo.
Makita sa bilog nga kalibutan ang iya gugma.
kag sa iya ginhawa natuga natuga ang tanan nga butang sa kalangitan.
nga daw sa ginsulod sa botelya
dapat magtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagmando lang siya kag nahimo ang tanan.
indi ako mag-untat sa pagdayaw sa iya.
indi gid pagkulangon sang maayo nga mga butang.
Tudluan ko kamo sa pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang bisan sin-o nga luyag sang malawig kag malipayon nga kabuhi
indi siya dapat maghambal sing malain kag indi magbinutig.
ang iya relasyon sa iya isigkatawo.
kag ginapamatian niya ang ila pagpanawag.
sang mga tawo sa kalibutan.
Ginaluwas niya sila sa tanan nila nga kalisod.
Ginaluwas niya ang mga nadulaan sang paglaom.
ginaluwas siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sining tanan.
kag kamo nga mga ginadaogdaog magpamati kag magkalipay.
wala gid sing bisan isa ka tul-an nga mabali sa iya.
pagasilutan sang Dios sang Dios .
Wala sing bisan isa nga nagadangop sa iya nga pagasilutan niya.
mag-isa kita sa pagdayaw sa iya.
Ginkuha niya ang tanan ko nga kahadlok.
kag indi gid sila mahuy-an.
Ginluwas niya siya sa tanan niya nga kalisod.
kag ginaluwas niya sila sa katalagman sa katalagman .
Bulahan ang tawo nga nagapangayo sang proteksyon sa iya.
Kay ang mga nagatahod sa iya indi gid pagkulangon.
Awaya ang mga nagaaway sa akon.
sa mga nagadaogdaog kag nagapamintaha sa ila.”
Ginaakusar nila ako sang mga sala nga wala ko mahimo.
gani nasubuan gid ako.
Kag kon ang akon pangamuyo para sa ila para sa ila wala ginasabat,
pareho sang pagpangasubo sang isa ka tawo sa iya iloy.
kag wala untat ang ila pagpakalain sa akon.
ginakainitan nila ako.
Luwasa ako sa mga nagasalakay sa akon nga daw mga leon.
kag pasalamatan sa pagtililipon sang imo madamo nga katawhan.
Indi pagtuguti nga magyaguta
kag buligi ako.
kontra sa mga tawo nga nagapuyo sing malinong sa sini nga lugar.
“Hala ka! Nakita namon ang imo ginhimo.”
Indi ka magpalayo sa akon.
depensahi ako sa mga nagaakusar sa akon.
Indi pagtuguti nga kadlawan nila ako.
“Ti, natuman gid ang amon ginahandom. Nalaglag namon siya!”
mapaslawan kag mahuy-an.
“Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagakalipay sa kaayuhan sang iya alagad.”
kag dayawon ko ikaw permi.
kag pasaliga ako nga luwason mo ako.
magapalalagyo nga nagasalasala.
samtang ginatabog sila sang imo anghel.
samtang ginalagas sila sang imo anghel.
para mahulog ako.
Kabay pa nga sila mismo ang mahulog sa buho nga ila ginkutkot.
Dayon magakalipay ako tungod sa pagluwas mo sa akon, Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang malain nga tawo wala sing kahadlok sa Dios.
Padayuna ang imo paghimo sang matarong sa mga nagakabuhi sang husto.
kag bugalon nga mga kaaway.
kag indi na gid makabangon.
indi niya makita ang iya kalaot para kaugtan niya kuntani ini.
Wala na niya ginahimo kon ano ang husto kag ang maayo.
kag wala niya ginasikway ang malain.
mas mataas pa ini sa kalangitan.
Ginatatap mo, Ginoo Ginoo , ang mga tawo kag mga sapat.
pareho sang pagprotektar sang pispis sa iya mga buto sa idalom sang iya pakpak.
ginapainom mo sila sa imo manami nga tubig.
kag nagakasanagan ang amon hunahuna.
ukon magkahisa sa ila nga mga nagahimo sang malain.
Bisan pangitaon pa ninyo sila, indi na ninyo sila makita.
nga maayo gid ang ila kahimtangan.
kag ginakainitan nila sila.
kay nahibaluan niya nga madali na lang ang tion nga laglagon sila nga laglagon sila .
para patyon ang mga kubos kag mga imol nga nagakabuhi sing husto.
kag ang ila mga pana pamalion.
nga manggad sang mga malain.
pero buligan niya ang mga matarong.
Kag ang ila palanublion mangin ila hasta san-o.
bisan pa sa tion sang gutom may madamo sila nga pagkaon.
ukon pareho sa malagtom nga mga tanom nga magakalalaya.
Magakaladula sila nga daw aso.
Pero ang mga matarong mahinatagon.
Pero ang mga ginapakamalaot niya palayason sa sina nga duta sa sina nga duta .
nga ang iya pagkabuhi makapalipay sa iya.
tungod kay ginauyatan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
ukon ang ila mga kabataan nagapangayo-ngayo sang pagkaon.
kag ang ila mga kabataan nangin pagpakamaayo sa iban.
para makaestar kamo sa duta sang Israel sa duta sang Israel hasta san-o.
pero ang mga kaliwat sang mga malain palayason sa duta sang Israel sa duta sang Israel .
Ang mga matarong ya padayon nga magaestar sa sina nga sina nga duta hasta san-o.
Magpuyo ka sa duta nga wala sing may ginakahadlukan nga katalagman.
Ang ginahambal sang matarong may kaalam kag husto.
kag wala niya ginalapas ini.
kag nagatinguha sila sa pagpatay sa ila.
nga silutan kon dal-on sila sa korte.
Makita mo kon palayason na ang mga malain sa sina nga duta.
pareho siya sa matag-as nga mga kahoy nga matag-as nga mga kahoy nga sedro sang Lebanon.
Ginpangita ko siya, pero wala ko na siya makita.
May maayo siya nga palaabuton.
dulaon ang ila maayo nga palaabuton.
Siya ang ila mabakod nga dalangpan sa tion sang kalisod.
kag ihatag niya sa imo ang imo ginahandom.
tungod kay nagapangayo sila sang proteksyon sa iya.
magsalig sa iya kag himuon niya ini:
pareho ka klaro sang adlaw nga nagasilak kon udto.
nga madinalag-on sa ila malain nga mga plano.
Indi ka magpanginit, kay makapalain lang ina sa imo.
pero atong nagasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo padayon nga magaestar
Ginoo Ginoo , indi ako pagsabdunga ukon pagsiluti sa imo kaakig.
kag malubog na ang akon panulok.
Bisan ang akon mga paryente nagapalayo sa akon.
Sa bilog nga adlaw nagaplano sila sa pagtraidor sa akon.
Nagapaapa-apa lang ako, nga kuno indi makahambal.
Ginapabungol-bungulan ko lang ang ila malain nga ginaplano ang ila malain nga ginaplano kag wala ako nagasabat,
Ikaw, Ginoo nga akon Dios, ang magasabat sang akon pangamuyo.
ukon magpabugal kon malaglag ako.
kag wala untat ang akon pag-antos.
Gani ginatuad ko ang akon mga sala nga nagapatublag sa akon.
Ginakainitan nila ako nga wala sing kabangdanan.
Kay daw sa ginpilas mo ako sang pana kag ginsumbag.
Kag ginakontra nila ako kay nagatinguha ako sa paghimo sang maayo.
indi ka magpalayo sa akon.
Buligi ako gilayon, Ginoo nga akon manluluwas.
Indi maayo ang pamatyag sang akon lawas tungod sang imo kaakig sa akon mga sala.
pareho ini sang mabug-at nga palas-anon nga indi ko masarangan.
Tungod sang akon kabuangan, ang akon mga pilas naghubag kag nagbaho.
kag nagapangasubo ako sa bilog nga adlaw.
Indi maayo ang pamatyag sang akon lawas kay nagangutngot ang akon hawak.
Nagaugayong ako sa kasakit sang akon balatyagon.
kag nabatian mo ang akon pag-ugayong.
samtang ara sa akon tupad ang malain nga mga tawo.”
Daw sa mapatay na ako sa imo mga pagpaantos sa akon.
Matuod gid man nga ang kabuhi sang tawo pareho sa hangin nga nagaagi lang.
pareho sa tanan ko nga mga katigulangan.
para magmalipayon man ako sa wala pa ako mapatay.
ang kasakit sang akon buot.
Gani wala ko na mapunggan Gani wala ko na mapunggan ; nagsiling ako,
Padumduma ako nga umalagi lang ang akon kabuhi.”
Sa matuod, ang kabuhi sang tawo daw sa hangin lang nga nagaagi,
pero indi siya makahibalo kon sin-o ang magapulos sini kon mapatay na siya kon mapatay na siya .
Ang akon pagsalig ara sa imo.
kag indi pagtuguti nga yagutaon ako sang mga buang-buang.
kay ikaw ang nagapaantos sa akon.
kag ginpamatian niya ang akon pagpangayo sang bulig.
Wala ko ginahipsan ang imo gugma kag kamatuoran
Kabay pa nga ang imo gugma kag kamatuoran magatipig permi sa akon.
kag tungod sini nadulaan ako sang kaisog.
Ginoo Ginoo , palihog luwasa ako kag buligi gilayon.
Kabay pa nga ang tanan nga nagahandom sang akon kalaglagan magapalalagyo sa kahuya.
Kabay pa nga ang mga nagayaguta sa akon matingala gid nga nahuy-an sila.
“Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
O Dios ko, buligi ako gilayon.
Kag gintungtong niya ako sa bato para indi ako maano.
kag magatahod sila kag magasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo .
kag wala nagadangop sa mga matinaas-taason nga nagasunod sa kabutigan.
Indi ko ini masugid tanan kay puwerte kadamo.
Sa baylo, ginhimo mo ako nga matinumanon sa imo.
suno sa nasulat sa Kasulatan parte sa akon.
Ang imo kasuguan ginatipigan ko sa akon tagipusuon.”
Nahibaluan mo, Ginoo Ginoo , nga indi ako mag-untat sa pagsugid sini.
Buligan siya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tion sang kalisod.
ayuha ako para makabalos ako sa akon mga kaaway.
Dayon mahibaluan ko nga nalipay ka sa akon, kay wala makadaog ang akon mga kaaway sa akon.
ginatipigan mo ang akon kabuhi hasta san-o.
indi siya pag-itugyan sa iya mga kaaway.
ayuhon niya siya sa iya ginabatyag.
Ayuha ako, kay nakasala ako sa imo.”
Siling nila, Siling nila, “San-o pa bala siya mapatay para malimtan na siya?”
Kag pagkaguwa nila ginakutsokutso nila ini sa iban.
kag nagahunahuna sila sing malain kontra sa akon.
gani indi na gid siya makabangon pa.”
kag nagasalo sa akon sa pagkaon nagtraidor sa akon.
pareho sa usa nga ginahidlaw sang tubig sa sapa.
Sagi sila hambal sa akon nga, “Diin na bala ang imo Dios?”
Dapat magsalig ako sa imo kag dayawon ko ikaw liwat, ikaw nga akon manluluwas kag Dios.
San-o pa ako makakadto sa imo templo sa imo templo sa pagpalapit sa imo presensya?
samtang sagi hambal ang mga tawo sa akon nga, “Diin na bala ang imo Dios?”
Kag nagaselebrar kami nga may paghinugyaw sa kalipay kag pagpasalamat sa imo.
Dapat magsalig ako sa imo. Huo, dayawon ko ikaw liwat, ikaw nga akon manluluwas kag Dios.
gani kon gab-i nagakanta ako bilang pangamuyo sa imo, O Dios sang akon kabuhi.
Ngaa nga kinahanglan pa nga magkasubo ako tungod sa pagpamigos sa akon sang mga kaaway?”
Luwasa ako sa dayaon kag malain nga mga tawo.
Ngaa nga kinahanglan pa nga magkasubo ako tungod sa pagpamigos sa akon sang mga kaaway?
para matuytuyan ako pabalik sa imo templo didto sa balaan nga bukid.
Nagadayaw ako sa imo paagi sa pagtukar sang arpa, O Dios ko.
parte sa imo mga ginhimo sang ila nga panahon, sang dugay na nga tiyempo,
Kag ginpanguha nila ang amon mga pagkabutang.
Ginpalapta mo kami sa mga nasyon.
Daw pareho lang nga wala kami sing pulos sa imo.
Ginhimo mo kami nga makahuluya kag kaladlawan sa mga katupad namon nga mga nasyon.
kag nagalungo-lungo sila nga nagayaguta sa amon nga nagayaguta sa amon .
Kag wala na ako sing nawong nga iatubang,
nga amo ang akon mga kaaway nga gusto magbalos sa akon.
ukon maglapas sa imo kasugtanan.
Wala kami magtalikod sa imo kag wala kami magsipak sa imo pamaagi.
nga sa diin nagaestar ang talunon nga mga ido.
Ginpaantos mo ato nga mga katawhan pero ginpauswag mo ang amon mga katigulangan.
kag nagapangamuyo kami sa iban nga dios,
sanglit nahibaluan mo man ang mga sekreto sa hunahuna sang tawo?
Pareho kami sa mga karnero nga ilihawon.
Indi kami pagsikwaya hasta san-o.
pati na ang pagpamigos sa amon?
Nagkalatumba kami sa duta kag indi na makabangon.
luwasa kami tungod sang imo gugma sa amon.
tungod kay ginahigugma mo sila.
Ikaw ang akon Hari kag Dios nga nagadeklarar
Paagi sa imo mapierdi namon ang amon mga kaaway.
Wala ako nagasalig sa akon pana ukon espada nga makapadaog sa akon.
Ginapakahuy-an mo ang mga nagakontra sa amon.
kag dayawon namon hasta san-o.
Wala mo na ginaupdi ang amon mga soldado.
Ang akon abilidad sa paghambal pareho sa abilidad sang isa ka maayo nga manunulat.
Kalimti ang imo mga kasimanwa kag mga paryente,
Tahura siya kay agalon mo siya.
pati na ang mga pinakamanggaranon sa ila.
Ang imo bayo may borda nga bulawan.
Kag ang gindala sa imo nga mga dalaga magasunod sa imo bilang abay.
Malipayon gid kamo samtang nagasulod kamo sa palasyo sang hari.
Himuon mo sila nga mga pangulo sa bilog nga duta.
Gani dayawon ka sang mga nasyon hasta san-o.
kay ginabendisyunan ka permi sang Dios.
gamhanan ka kag halangdon.
Paagi sa imo gahom maghimo ka sang makatilingala nga mga buhat.
Mapierdi ang mga nasyon sa imo.
kag matarong ang imo pagdumala sa imo ginharian.
kag ginhatagan sang kalipay nga labaw sang sa ginhatag niya sa imo mga kaupdanan.
Ginalipay ka sang huni sang mga instrumento sa imo palasyo nga may malahalon nga dekorasyon.
nga nagasuksok sang alahas nga puro gid bulawan halin sa Ofir.
Handa gid siya permi nga magbulig sa tion sang kalisod.
Kamo nga mga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan magadayaw sa akon.”
Ang Dios ni Jacob amo ang aton dalangpan.
kag magkalahulog sa kadadalman sang dagat,
kag tungod sini ang mga bukid mag-uyog.
ang balaan nga puluy-an sang Labing Mataas nga Dios.
Temprano pa magaabot ang Dios sa pagbulig sa sini nga siyudad.
Sa singgit sang Dios daw daw matunaw sa kahadlok ang mga tawo sa sa kahadlok ang mga tawo sa kalibutan.
ang makatilingala nga mga butang nga iya ginahimo sa kalibutan.
kag ginatutdan ang mga taming.
magpalakpak kamo kag maghinugyaw sa Dios tungod sa kalipay.
Gamhanan siya nga hari sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ginapasakop niya sa amon nga mga Israelinhon nga mga Israelinhon ang mga nasyon.
nga ginpabugal sang iya hinigugma nga si Jacob.
samtang nagahinugyaw ang mga tawo sa kalipay kag nagatunog ang mga budyong.
Magkanta kamo sang mga pagdayaw sa aton hari.
Dayawa ninyo siya paagi sa mga kanta.
Nagapungko siya sa iya balaan nga trono nga nagagahom sa mga nasyon.
Dalayawon gid siya.
kag takos gid nga dayawon sa iya siyudad
tungod kay madinalag-on ka paagi sa imo gahom.
tungod sang imo matarong nga matarong nga paghukom.
Mga Israelinhon, Mga Israelinhon, libuta ninyo ang Zion
para masugiran ninyo ang masunod nga mga henerasyon
Siya ang magatuytoy sa aton hasta san-o.
ang siyudad sang Gamhanan nga Hari.
kag napakita na niya sa mga pumuluyo sini nga siya ang ila dalangpan.
Nagtipon ang mga hari sa pagsalakay sa Jerusalem sa Jerusalem ,
pero pagkakita nila sini, natingala gid sila kag nagpalalagyo sa kahadlok.
Nagkurog sila sa kahadlok pareho sa babayi nga nagapasakit.
nga ginwasak sang hangin nga halin sa east.
Palig-unon niya ini nga siyudad hasta san-o.
O Dios, nagapamalandong kami sa imo gugma sa sulod sang imo templo.
Magpamati kamo, tanan kamo nga mga katawhan nga nagapuyo diri sa kalibutan,
Kag ibilin lang nila ang ila manggad sa iban.
Dira sila magaestar hasta san-o bisan nga may ginapanag-iyahan sila nga mga duta.
Bisan nga manggaranon pa ang tawo, mapatay lang siya gihapon pareho sa mga sapat.
kag amo man ang dangatan sang mga nagasunod kag nagapati sa ila ginasiling.
Ang lulubngan amo ang ila mangin elistaran.
Pero ako luwason sang Dios sa gahom sang kamatayon, kay kuhaon niya ako.
kon ang manggad sang ila pamilya nagadugang pa gid.
ang ila manggad indi nila madala sa lulubngan.
kag ginadayaw sila sang mga tawo tungod kay mainuswagon sila,
didto sa lugar nga indi nila makita ang kasanag.
dungganon man ukon kubos, manggaranon man ukon imol.
mapatay pareho sa mga sapat.
Magahambal ako nga may kaalam kag magahunahuna ako sing mga mapuslanon.
kag ipaathag ko ang ila kahulugan samtang ginatukar ko ang arpa.
kon libutan ako sang malain kag dayaon nga mga tawo
nga nagasalig kag nagapabugal sa ila manggad.
para sa kabuhi sang iban ukon para sa iya kabuhi.
wala gid sing bayad nga makaigo
para mabuhi ang tawo hasta san-o kag indi na mapatay.
nagahambal kag nagapanawag sa mga tawo sa bisan diin nga parte sang kalibutan.
ang mga baka sa linibo ka bukid,
kag ang mga sapat sa latagon.
tungod kay akon ang kalibutan kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini.
ukon nagainom sang dugo sang kanding? Siyempre wala Siyempre wala .
kag tumana ninyo ang inyo mga promisa sa akon.
kag dayawon ninyo ako.”
“Wala kamo sang kinamatarong sa pagmitlang sang akon mga sugo kag kasugtanan.
wala ninyo ginasapak ang akon mga ginahambal.
kag nagapakig-upod man kamo sa mga nagapanginbabayi kag nagapanginlalaki.
kag maabtik kamo maghambal sing binutig.
Nagasilak siya halin sa Zion,
Ginapakalain ninyo permi ang inyo mga utod.
Pero sabdungon ko kamo kag ipakita ko sa inyo kon daw ano kamo kalaot.
kay kon indi, laglagon ko kamo nga wala sing may makaluwas sa inyo.
kag ang nagabantay sang iya pagginawi luwason ko.”
Sa una niya may makahalalit nga kalayo kag sa iya palibot may mabaskog nga bagyo.
nga magsaksi sa iya nga paghukom sa iya katawhan.
nga naghimo sing kasugtanan sa akon paagi sa paghalad.”
kay siya ang nagahukom.
magasaksi ako kontra sa inyo nga mga taga-Israel.
ukon sa inyo mga halad nga ginasunog nga inyo permi ginahalad.
Pero wala ako nagakinahanglan sang inyo turo nga mga baka kag mga kanding,
Panasa ang akon mga sala suno sa imo dako nga pagkabalaka sa akon.
kag hatagi liwat ako sing matutom nga espiritu.
kag indi pagkuhaa ang imo Espiritu Santo sa akon.
kag hatagi ako sing matinumanon nga espiritu.
Dayon tudluan ko ang mga makasasala sang imo mga pamaagi para magbalik sila sa imo.
kag isugid ko sing mabaskog ang imo nga pagluwas.
kag dayawon ko ikaw.
Bisan maghalad ako sa imo sang halad nga ginasunog, indi ka malipay.
Ini nga klase sang halad indi mo pag-isikway.
Patinduga liwat ang mga pader sini.
Kag igahalad ang turo nga mga baka sa imo halaran.
tinlui ako sa akon mga sala.
Kay sa tanan nga tion ginahunahuna kag ginaako ko ang akon mga sala.
Wala ka nagsala sa imo paghukom sa akon sa akon .
Malain ako kag nakasala halin pa sang akon pagkatawo.
tudlui ako nga mangin maalamon.
Hugasi ako para mangin maputi gid ako.
bisan pa ginadugmok mo ang akon mga tul-an kabay pa nga malipay ako liwat.
panasa ang tanan ko nga kalautan.
Indi bala nga ang Dios maayo permi sa inyo?
Ang pagpangdaya amo ang inyo ginahimo.
kag ang kabutigan imbes ang kamatuoran.
Kamo nga mga dayaon, luyag ninyo nga pasakitan ang iban paagi sa inyo mga pulong.
Kag bawion niya ang inyo kabuhi.
Kadlawan nila kamo kag magasiling sila,
kag naggamhanan pa gid sila paagi sa pagpanglaglag sa iban.”
Nagasalig ako sa iya gugma hasta san-o.
Magasalig ako sa imo kay maayo ka sa imo matutom nga katawhan.
Wala sing bisan isa nga nagahimo sing maayo.
kon bala may ara nga nakaintiendi sang kamatuoran sang kamatuoran kag nagadangop sa iya.
kag wala sila nagapangamuyo sa Dios.
tungod kay ginsikway sila sang Dios.
paagi sa imo gahom pamatud-i nga wala ako sing sala.
Pamatii ang akon mga pangamuyo,
Mga mapintas sila kag wala nagakilala sa imo.
Ikaw, Ginoo, ang akon salandigan.
Sa imo katutom, O Dios, O Dios, laglaga sila.
Dayawon ko ikaw kay maayo ikaw.
kag makita ko gid ang pagkapierdi sang akon mga kaaway.
talupangda ang akon pagpangayo sang bulig.
Puno sang kalaot kag kagamo ang siyudad.
kag wala untat ang pagpamigos kag pagpangdaya sa mga karsada.
Kon ang kontra ko ang nagapakanubo sa akon malikawan ko siya.
kag suod nga abyan ang nagainsulto sa akon ang nagainsulto sa akon .
kag nagakadto kami sa templo sang Dios kaupod sang madamo nga tawo.
Kay ang kalautan ara sa ila kag sa ila mga puluy-an.
kag ginaluwas niya ako.
kag ginapamatian niya ako.
bisan madamo ang nagakontra sa akon.
Ini sila wala sing pagbag-o kag wala nagatahod sa Dios.
Indi ako mapahamtang sa akon mga palaligban.
wala niya gintuman ang iya mga ginpromisa.
kag ang iya mga ginahambal makapilas gali pareho sa matalom nga espada.
Indi niya pagpabay-an nga maano ang mga matarong hasta san-o.
Pero ako ya, magasalig sa Dios.
Kay ginagamo nila ako kag ginadumtan sa ila kaakig.
Ginakulbaan ako nga basi mapatay ako.
Nagakurog ako sa kahadlok, sa puwerte gid nga kahadlok.
Kon may pakpak lang kuntani ako pareho sa pating, malupad ako kag mangita sing palahuwayan.
Malupad ako pakadto sa malayo nga kamingawan kag didto magapuyo.
para magpanago sa kaakig sang akon mga kaaway nga daw sa kaakig sang akon mga kaaway nga daw sa mabaskog nga hangin ukon bagyo.
Kay nakita ko ang pagpamintas kag pag-ilinaway sa siyudad.
Wala untat ang pagpaantos nila sa akon.
Ginoong Ginoong Dios, ginadayaw ko ikaw tungod sang imo promisa.
Indi makahalit ang tawo sa akon.
Ihalad ko ang akon halad sang pagpasalamat sa imo.
para magkabuhi ako sa imo, O Dios, sa kabuhi nga masanag.
Madamo ang nagakontra sa akon, Labing Mataas nga Dios.
Kon nahadlok ako, magasalig ako sa imo.
Ang ila lang permi nga ginaplano amo ang paghalit sa akon.
kag ginabantayan nila ang tanan ko nga ginahimo sa tuyo nga patyon nila ako.
Sa imo kaakig laglaga ina nga mga katawhan.
Indi bala ginlista mo ini sa imo linukot nga kasulatan?
Ini naeksperiensyahan ko, tungod kay ikaw, O Dios, nagadampig sa akon.
Magapangayo ako sang proteksyon sa imo hasta nga matapos ang mga katalagman.
Ipakita, O Dios, ang imo pagkagamhanan sa kalangitan kag sa bilog nga kalibutan.
sa imo nga nagatuman sang imo katuyuan sa akon.
Ipakita mo ang imo gugma kag katutom sa akon sa akon .
Ang ila mga dila amo ang matalom nga mga espada.
pero sila man mismo ang nahulog sa sadto nga buho.
kag ang akon instrumento nga may mga kuwerdas sa pagdayaw sa imo sa pagdayaw sa imo .
Kantahan ko ikaw sa tunga sang mga taga-iban nga taga-iban nga nasyon.
Kamo nga mga pangulo, matarong bala ang inyo paghukom sa mga tawo?
kag nagaagay ang ila dugo.
kag may Dios nga nagahukom sa mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan.”
Nagapanghalit kamo sa inyo lugar.
Ang mga malain nagapalayo sa Dios sa Dios kag nagabutig halin pa sang ila pagkatawo.
nga daw sa nga daw sa nagabingaw ka sang mga ngipon sang mga leon.
kag kon magpana sila, indi kuntani sila makaigo.
ukon pareho sa bata nga natawo nga patay, nga wala nakakita sang kasanag.
nga ginadabukan sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy.
protektari ako sa mga nagakontra sa akon.
Pangunahan mo ako kag ipakita mo sa akon ang pagkapierdi sang akon mga kaaway.
Ginoo nga amon manugprotektar, patalanga kag laglaga ang akon mga kaaway paagi sa imo gahom.
Nagapakamalaot sila kag nagabinutig,
nga ikaw, O Dios, nagahari sa Israel.
nga nagangurob pareho sa ido samtang nagalibot sa siyudad.
kag nagataghol kon indi mabusog.
Tungod kay ikaw ang akon dalangpan, ang nagaprotektar sa akon sa tion sang kalisod.
kay ikaw ang akon dalangpan, ang Dios nga nagahigugma sa akon.
Luwasa ako sa malain nga mga tawo nga manugpatay.
bisan wala ako nakasala sa ila.
Nagabalik sila kon gab-i nga nagangurob pareho sa ido samtang nagalibot sa siyudad.
Nagasiling pa sila, “Wala sing may makabati sa amon.”
ginasuyaan mo sila tanan nga wala nagatuo sa imo.
magahulat ako sa imo kay ikaw ang akon dalangpan,
Naakig ka sa amon, pero karon talupangda kami.
Indi bala ikaw, O Dios, nga nagsikway sa amon kag wala na nagaupod sa amon mga soldado?
kay wala sing pulos ang bulig sang tawo.
kay pierdihon mo ang amon mga kaaway.
pero karon nagapangabay ako sa imo nga kay-uhon mo ini kay daw matiphag na ini.
Nagadalang-dalang kami; daw pareho lang nga ginhubog mo kami sang bino.
para makalikaw kami sa mga pana sang kaaway.
Sabta ang amon mga pangamuyo para maluwas kami nga imo mga hinigugma.
“Magadaog ako; partidahon ko ang Shekem kag ang Kapatagan sang Sucot sa akon katawhan sa akon katawhan .
kag ang Juda amo ang akon manugdumala.
Nagasinggit ako sang kadalag-an kontra sa Filistia.”
Sin-o ang magadala sa akon sa Edom kag sa siyudad sini nga napalibutan sang mga pader?
pamatii ang akon pagpangamuyo.
Dal-a ako sa lugar nga wala sing peligro,
pareho ka sang tore nga nagaprotektar sang siyudad nga nagaprotektar sang siyudad kontra sa mga kaaway.
pareho sang pagprotektar sang pispis sa iya mga buto sa idalom sang iya mga pakpak.
kag ginhatagan mo ako sang mga butang nga ginahatag mo sa mga nagatahod sa imo.
paagi sa iya mga kaliwat paagi sa iya mga kaliwat .
Protektari siya sang imo gugma kag katutom.
kag tumanon ko permi ang akon promisa sa imo.
ang akon kaluwasan nagahalin sa iya.
Bisan magdugang pa ang inyo manggad, indi ini pagsaligi.
Indi lang kaisa nga nabatian ko nga nagsiling ang Dios nga sa iya ang gahom
kag ang gugma. Sigurado nga magabalos ang Ginoo sa mga tawo suno sa ila mga binuhatan.
Siya ang akon dalangpan, gani indi gid ako matublag.
Pareho ako sa pader nga daw marumpag ukon sa kudal nga nagahilay.
Nagahambal kamo sing maayo sa akon pero sa sulod sang inyo tagipusuon ginapakamalaot ninyo ako.
Sa Dios lang ako makaangkon sang kapahuwayan kay ginahatagan niya ako sang paglaom.
Siya ang akon dalangpan, gani indi ako matublag.
Siya ang akon mabakod nga palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato, ang akon manugprotektar.
kay siya ang nagaprotektar sa aton.
Palareho lang sila nga wala sing pulos; mamag-an pa sila sa hangin.
pareho nga nauhaw ako samtang ara ako sa mamala nga duta nga wala gid sing tubig.
kag ang ila mga bangkay kaunon sang talunon nga mga ido.
Pero pahipuson sang Dios ang mga baba sang mga butigon.
Nakita ko gid ang imo pagkagamhanan kag pagkahalangdon sa imo templo.
Dayawon ko ikaw tungod kay ang imo gugma mas bilidhon pa sang sa kabuhi.
Bayawon ko ang akon mga kamot sa pagpangamuyo sa pagpangamuyo sa imo.
Kag magadayaw ako sa imo nga nagahugyaw sa kalipay.
Sa bilog nga gab-i nagapamalandong ako sa imo,
kag ginauyatan mo ako para indi ako maano.
Ang mga nagatinguha sa pagpatay sa akon magakadto sa lugar sang mga patay.
Tipigi ang akon kabuhi sa pagpamahog sang akon mga kaaway.
Kag magapangayo sila sang proteksyon sa iya.
Protektari ako sa malain nga plano sang sinang grupo sang mga malain.
Masakit sila kon maghambal, daw pareho ini sa espada kag pana.
kag wala sila nahadlok maghambal sini.
Nagasiling sila, “Wala sing may makakita sini.”
Indi gid matungkad ang hunahuna kag tagipusuon sang tawo!
kag sa hinali lang mapilasan sila.
Ang tanan nga makakita sa ila magalungo-lungo sa pagyaguta sa ila sa pagyaguta sa ila .
Kag isugid nila ini.
Kag tumanon namon ang amon promisa sa imo.
kag ginapakamaayo mo ang mga tanom nga nagatubo.
Ang bisan diin nga lugar nga agyan mo makaangkon sang kabuganaan.
ang mga bukid daw sa mga tawo nga nagakalipay.
Ini nga mga lugar daw sa mga tawo nga daw sa mga tawo nga nagahinugyaw kag nagakanta sa kalipay.
Ang tanan nga tawo magapalapit sa imo kay ginasabat mo ang mga pangamuyo.
Kon parte sa amon mga sala, bisan madamo ini, ginapatawad mo gihapon.
Maayawan kami sang maayo nga mga butang sa imo balay nga amo ang imo balaan nga templo.
bisan ang sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan kag sa pinakamalayo nga dagat.
Gamhanan ka kag ginpahamtang mo ang mga bukid paagi sa imo gahom.
Ginapalinong mo ang huganas sang mga balod sa dagat kag ang girinual sang mga katawhan.
Ang imo hinimuan makapahugyaw sa mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan tungod sa kalipay.
Ginapreparar mo ang duta nga maghatag sang patubas.
maghinugyaw kamo sa Dios sa kalipay.
gintinluan mo kami pareho sa pilak nga ginpapuraw sa kalayo.
Ginpasiod mo kami kag ginpapas-an sang mabug-at nga mga karga.
Pero karon ginbutang mo kami sa maayo nga kahimtangan.
Tumanon ko ang akon mga promisa sa imo
nga ginsiling ko sang ara ako sa kalisod.
pareho sang karnero, turo nga baka, kag kanding.
kay sugiran ko kamo kon ano ang iya ginhimo sa akon.
Nagpangayo ako sang bulig sa iya kag gindayaw ko siya.
Kon ginpabay-an ko lang ang akon mga sala wala kuntani nagpamati ang Ginoo sa akon.
ginpamatian niya ang akon pangamuyo.
Padunggi ninyo siya paagi sa inyo mga pagdayaw.
kag ginahigugma gid niya ako.
Tungod sa imo dako nga gahom, ang imo mga kaaway nagaluhod sa imo sa kahadlok.
Magakanta sila sang mga pagdayaw sa imo.”
Dali kamo, kag tan-awa ninyo ang makatilingala nga mga ginhimo sang Dios sa mga tawo.
Sa sadtong ginhimo sang Dios magkalipay kita.
Dapat ang mga nagarebelde sa Dios indi magpabugal sang ila kaugalingon.
Ipabati ang inyo pagdayaw sa iya.
kag wala siya magtugot nga malaglag kita.
Ipakita sa amon ang imo kaayo
para mahibaluan sang tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan ang imo pamaagi kag kaluwasan.
Kabay pa nga dayawon ka sang tanan nga katawhan, O Dios.
tungod kay matarong ang imo paghukom sa ila kag ginatuytuyan mo sila.
kabay pa nga magpalalagyo sila.
Dira sila nag-estar, kag sa imo kaayo ginhatagan mo ang mga imol sang ila mga kinahanglanon.
kag ginpamalita ini sang madamo nga babayi:
kag ang ila mga pagkabutang ginpartida sang mga babayi sang Israel sang Israel .
kag ang punta sang pakpak nahaklapan sang puro nga bulawan.”
daw sa ginpaulanan niya sang snow ang Bukid sang Bukid sang Zalmon.
Pagkatahom sang bukid sang Bashan; madamo ini sang mga bungtod.
Ngaa nahisa ini sa bukid nga ginpili sang Dios nga iya pagapuy-an hasta san-o?
halin sa Sinai kaupod ang iya linibo ka karwahe.
Kag didto magapuyo ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios.
kay adlaw-adlaw ginabuligan niya kita sa aton mga problema.
pareho sa kandila nga nagakatunaw sa kalayo.
Siya ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga nagaluwas sa aton sa kamatayon.
nga nagapadayon sa pagpakasala.
pabalikon ko sila halin sa kadadalman sang dagat,
kag ang inyo mga ido makapaayaw sa pagdilap sang ila dugo.”
O Dios kag Hari ko, nakita sang tanan ang imo parada sang pagdaog pakadto sa imo templo.
sa tunga nila
Dayawa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo , kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Israel!”
kag sunod amo ang mga pangulo sang Zebulun kag Naftali.
O Dios, ipakita ang imo gahom
Tungod sang imo templo sa Jerusalem magadala ang mga hari sang mga regalo sa imo.
Pero ang mga matarong magahinugyaw sa kalipay sa imo presensya.
Laptaha ang mga katawhan nga nalipay sa inaway.
Ang mga taga-Ethiopia
Magkanta kamo sang pagdayaw sa Ginoo
Pamatii ninyo ang iya nagadaguob nga tingog.
Ang kalangitan nagapakita sang iya pagkagamhanan.
Dalayawon ang Dios!
magkalipay kamo sa iya presensya.
kag nagaprotektar sa mga balo nga babayi.
Pero ang mga rebelde magaestar sa mamala kag mainit nga duta.
O Dios, sang ginpangunahan mo ang imo katawhan sa pagpanglakaton sa kamingawan,
tungod nga nag-abot ka, O Dios sang Israel, ikaw nga nagpahayag sa Sinai.
kag naulanan ang mamala nga duta nga ginhatag mo sa imo katawhan.
Luwasa ako, O Dios, kay pareho ako sa tawo nga daw malumos na.
Kon nagahibi ako kag nagapuasa, ginapakahuy-an nila ako.
ginayaguta nila ako.
kag ang mga hubog nagakumpuso sang mga pangyaguta nga mga kanta parte sa akon.
Tungod nga matutom ka sa pagluwas,
Luwasa ako sa mga nagakontra sa akon nga daw sa ginaluwas mo ako nga daw sa ginaluwas mo ako sa madalom nga tubig.
Indi pagtuguti nga tabunan ako sang mga balod ukon mapatay ako.
Talupangda ako suno sa imo dako nga kaluoy sa akon.
Sabta ako gilayon kay ara ako sa kalisod.
Palapit ka sa akon kag luwasa ako sa akon mga kaaway.
Nakita mo ang tanan ko nga mga kaaway.
Daw ara ako sa madalom nga tubig kag ginatabunan sang mga balod.
Nagpaabot ako nga lipayon, pero wala gid sing may naglipay sa akon.
kag sang gin-uhaw ako ginhatagan nila ako sang langgaw.
Kabay pa nga ang ila mga punsyon magadala sang kalaglagan sa ila kag sa ila mga bisita.
Kabay pa nga mabulag sila kag magkurog
Dakpa sila sa imo kaugot.
kag wala na sing may mag-estar sa ila mga tolda.
kag ginakutsokutso nila ang ila pag-antos.
Idugang pa gid ina sa ila mga sala kag indi sila pagluwasa.
indi sila paglistaha upod sa mga matarong.
gani protektari ako, O Dios, paagi sa pagluwas sa akon.
Nagapalangdulom na ang akon panulok sa pagpaabot sang imo bulig, O Dios ko.
Padunggan ko siya nga may pagpasalamat.
Mas makapalipay ini sa Ginoo Ginoo sang sa mga halad nga baka.
ang mga nagadangop sa Dios magabakod.
kag wala niya ginakalimtan ang iya katawhan nga ginbihag.
Dayawa ninyo ang Dios, tanan kamo nga ara sa kalangitan, sa kalibutan, kag sa kadagatan.
Kag magaestar dira ang iya katawhan kag magapanag-iya sang sina nga duta.
ang mga nagahigugma sa iya magaestar dira.
Ginapilit nila ako sa pag-uli sang mga butang nga wala ko ginkawat.
ang akon mga sala wala matago sa imo.
kabay pa nga indi mahuy-an ang mga nagasalig kag nagadangop sa imo tungod sa akon.
Kay tungod sa imo ginainsulto kag ginapakahuy-an ako.
daw estranghero ako sa akon mga utod.
Ang mga insulto sang mga tawo sa imo ginbatyag ko.
Ginoong Ginoong Dios, luwasa ako kag buligi gilayon.
Kabay pa nga ang mga nagayaguta sa akon sa akon magaatras tungod nga nahuy-an sila.
Kabay pa nga ang mga naluyag sa kaluwasan nga halin sa imo magsiling permi, “Dalayawon ang Dios!”
Ginoo Ginoo , buligi ako gilayon.
Indi pag-itugot nga mahuy-an ako.
gusto nila ako nga patyon.
kay wala sing may magbulig sa iya.”
buligi ako gilayon.
Kabay pa nga ang gusto maghalit sa akon, mahuy-an kag yagutaon.
kag dugangan ko pa gid ang pagdayaw sa imo.
bisan indi ko ini matungkad.
Isugid ko ang imo lamang pagkamatarong.
kag hasta subong ginasugid ko ini.
samtang ginasugid ko ang imo gahom kag kusog sa masunod nga henerasyon.
wala gid sing may pareho sa imo.
Pamatii ako kag luwasa.
daw pareho ako sa patay nga buhion mo liwat.
kag lipayon mo ako liwat.
O Balaan nga Dios nga Dios sang Israel.
tungod kay ginluwas mo ako.
kay ang mga gusto maghalit sa akon nahuy-an kag nagsalasala.
kag mabakod nga palanaguan.
O Dios ko, luwasa ako sa kamot sang malain kag mapintas nga mga tawo.
Halin sang bata pa ako, nagasalig na ako sa imo.
Dayawon ko ikaw hasta san-o.
tungod kay ikaw ang akon mabakod nga manugprotektar.
Dayawon ko permi ang imo pagkagamhanan.
Indi ako pagpabay-i kon maluya na ako.
O Dios, tudlui ang hari sang imo matarong nga paghukom,
sa pagpakita nga nagapasakop sila sa iya sa pagpakita nga nagapasakop sila sa iya .
kag ang tanan nga nasyon magaalagad sa iya.
Kay ginabuligan niya ang mga pinabay-an nga mga kubos, nga nagapangayo sang bulig sa iya.
kag ginabuligan niya sila.
kay ang ila mga kabuhi bilidhon sa iya.
Kabay pa nga pangamuyuan siya permi nga pakamaayuhon siya sang Dios.
pareho sang mga hilamon sa mga latagon.
kag ang mga nasyon magatawag sa iya nga bulahan.
nga amo lang gid ang nagahimo sang sinang makatilingala nga mga butang.
para hukman niya sing matarong ang imo katawhan, labi na ang mga kubos.
Amo ini ang katapusan sang mga pangamuyo ni David nga anak ni Jesse.
tungod nga nagakabuhi ang hari sing matarong.
kag pierdihon niya ang mga nagadaogdaog sa ila.
Kabay pa nga magpadayon ang iya paghari
Kabay pa nga mangin pareho siya sa ulan nga nagahatag sang tubig sa duta.
kag mangin maayo ang kahimtangan sang mga tawo hasta san-o.
kag halin sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan.
Kabay pa nga ang iya mga kaaway nga nagaestar sa kamingawan magapasakop sa iya.
labi na gid sa mga matinlo ang tagipusuon.
kag nagabaton lang sa ila ginahambal.
Wala sing inalung-ong ang Labing Mataas nga Dios.”
Amo ina ang mga malain, wala sing palaligban kag nagamanggaranon pa gid.
Gani wala bala sing pulos ang pagkabuhi ko nga matinlo kag wala sing sala?
halos kada aga ginasilutan mo ako.
mahimo nga ginluiban ko ang imo katawhan.
pero binudlayan ako,
kag dayon naintiendihan ko kon ano ang matabo sa mga malain.
kag laglagon mo sila.
magakalamatay sila tanan sa ila makahaladlok nga dangatan.
Pero ako, diutayan lang madulaan sang pagtuo,
Indi na sila madumduman pa kon silutan mo na sila, O Ginoo.
Sang naglain sadto ang akon buot kag nasakitan ang akon balatyagon,
nangin pareho ako sa sapat sa imo panulok nga balingag kag wala nakaintiendi.
Pero sa gihapon nagapalapit ako sa imo kag ginatuytuyan mo ako.
kag sa ulihi dal-on mo ako sa maayo gid nga kahimtangan.
Tungod kay ikaw ari sa akon, wala na ako sing iban pa nga ginahandom sa kalibutan.
Ikaw lang gid ang akon ginakinahanglan hasta san-o.
laglagon mo sila nga indi matutom sa imo.
para masugid ko ang tanan mo nga binuhatan.
kay nahisa ako sa bugalon kag malain nga mga tawo sang makita ko nga nagauswag sila.
Maayo ang ila lawas kag indi masakit ang ila kamatayon.
Wala sila nagaantos kag wala sila sing mga kalisod pareho sa iban nga mga tawo.
Gani ginapakita-kita nila ang ila pagkabugalon kag pagpamintas.
kag ang ila lang permi nga ginahunahuna amo ang paghimo sang malain.
Sa ila nga pagkabugalon nagapamahog sila sa pagpamigos sa iban.
Nagahambal sila sang malain sa Dios sa langit kag sa mga tawo sa kalibutan.
Ngaa akig ka sa katawhan nga imo ginabantayan?
Yagutaon ka na lang bala nila hasta san-o?
Laglaga na sila!
kag madamo nga beses nga ginluwas mo ang mga tawo sa kalibutan.
kag ikaw ang nagdunot sang mga ulo sang dalagko nga mga sapat sa tubig.
kag nagpakaon sang iya bangkay sa mga sapat nga nagaestar sa kamingawan.
Ikaw ang nagpahubas sa mga suba nga wala nagakahubsan.
kag ikaw ang nagpahamtang sang adlaw kag sang bulan sa ila nahamtangan.
kag ikaw ang naghimo sang tig-ilinit kag sang tigtulugnaw.
kag ginyaguta sang buang-buang nga mga kaaway.
Indi pagkalimti hasta san-o ang imo katawhan nga ginadaogdaog.
Dumduma ang Bukid sang Zion nga sa diin nagapuyo ka.
kay madamo na nga pagpamintas ang ginahimo sa madulom nga mga lugar sa sini nga sini nga duta.
Kabay pa nga dayawon ka sang mga kubos kag mga imol.
Dumduma kon paano ka ginapakahuy-an permi sang mga buang-buang.
sa pagpakita sang ila kaakig sa pagpakita sang ila kaakig .
tungod sang ginhimo sang mga kaaway.
Nagbutang sila dira sang tanda sang ila pagdaog.
paagi sa ila mga wasay.
paagi sa ila mga wasay kag mga piko.
ginhigkuan nila ining imo ginapuy-an.
Ginsunog nila ang tanan nga ginatipunan sa pagsimba sa imo diri sa duta sang Israel sang Israel .
kag wala sing may nakahibalo sa amon kon hasta san-o pa matapos ining nagakalatabo sa amon.
Ginasugid sang mga tawo ang imo makatilingala nga mga binuhatan.
pero dugangan niya ang ikasarang sang mga matarong.
kag magahukom ako sing matarong.
ako ang nagapabakod sang iya pundasyon.
nga indi sila magpabugal kag magpasikat sang ila ikasarang.
Nagasiling ako sa ila nga untatan na nila inang ila pagpadayaw-dayaw.”
kay ang pagpataas sa tawo sa tawo wala naghalin sa bisan diin
paubuson niya ang iban kag pataason ang iban.
Ginatagay niya ini, kag nagainom ang tanan nga malain sa kalibutan hasta nga maubos nila.
kag kantahan ko siya sang mga pagdayaw.
bantog siya sa Israel.
ginapunggan mo pa ang nabilin mo nga kaakig.
Ang tanan nga ara sa palibot sang Dios nga talahuron, dal-a ninyo ang inyo mga regalo sa iya.
ginakahadlukan siya sang mga hari sa kalibutan.
Nagapuyo siya sa Bukid sang Bukid sang Zion sa Jerusalem.
ang ila mga taming, mga espada, kag ang iban pa nila nga mga armas.
nga sa diin ginpamatay mo ang imo mga kaaway.
bisan ang ila mga kamot indi na nila maalsa.
nagkalamatay ang mga manugkabayo kag ang ila mga kabayo.
Sin-o bala ang makaagwanta sa imo kon mangakig ka?
Nahadlok sa imo ang mga tawo sa kalibutan kag naghipos sila
sang naghukom ka, O Dios, sa pagluwas sa tanan nga ginadaogdaog sa kalibutan.
Nagapanawag ako sa iya para mabatian niya ako.
amo nga ang Labing Mataas nga Dios wala na nagabulig.”
Huo, dumdumon ko ang mga milagro nga ginpanghimo mo sang una.
Hunahunaon ko kag pamalandungan ang tanan mo nga gamhanan nga mga binuhatan.
Wala na sing pareho sa imo kagamhanan.
Ginapakita mo ang imo gahom sa mga katawhan.
Paagi sa imo gahom ginluwas mo ang imo katawhan nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob kag ni Jose.
daw pareho sa tawo nga sang pagkakita sa imo hinadlukan kag nagkulurog.
nagdaguob sa langit kag nagpangilat sa bisan diin.
kag nagtay-og ang kalibutan.
pero indi ka makita.
pero wala gihapon ako sang kalipay.
Paagi kay Moises kag kay Aaron gintuytuyan mo ang imo katawhan nga pareho sa mga karnero.
Kon magpamalandong ako sa Dios nagapanghayhay ako kag nagakadulaan sang paglaom.
indi ako kahibalo kon ano ang akon ihambal, tungod nga indi ako mapahamtang.
Ginahunahuna ko ang mga inadlaw nga nagliligad kag ang madugay na nga mga tinuig.
Nagapamalandong ako kag amo ini ang ginapamangkot ko sa akon kaugalingon:
Indi na gid bala siya malipay sa akon?
Indi na gid bala niya pagtumanon ang iya promisa?
Wala na bala siya sing kaluoy tungod sang iya kaakig?”
wala nila ginsunod ang iya kasuguan.
Ginkalimtan nila ang iya makatilingala nga mga binuhatan nga ginpakita sa ila.
kag nakita ini sang aton
ginhimo niya ang tubig nga daw mga pader.
kag kon gab-i, paagi sa kasanag sang kalayo.
kag ginpaayawan niya sila inom sang tubig nga daw halin sa kadadalman sang duta.
Ginpatubod niya ang tubig sa bato kag nag-ilig ang tubig nga daw sa suba.
Didto sa kamingawan nagrebelde sila sa Labing Mataas nga Dios.
Gintilawan nila sing hungod ang Dios paagi sa pagpangayo sang kalan-on nga gusto gid nila.
“Makapapunsyon bala ang Dios diri sa kamingawan?
Sugiran ko kamo sang tinago nga mga kamatuoran sang una
pero makahatag bala siya sang tinapay kag karne sa aton nga iya katawhan?”
ginsalakay niya sila sang kalayo.
Kay wala sila sing pagtuo sa iya, kag wala sila magsalig nga luwason niya sila.
Pero bisan pa sina, ginmanduan niya ang langit nga mag-abri,
Ginhatag niya sa ila ini nga pagkaon nga halin sa langit para ila kaunon.
kag ginpagustuhan gid sila sang Dios sini.
Ginpahuyop niya ang hangin nga halin sa east kag sa south paagi sa iya gahom.
Kag ginpaulanan niya sila sang mga pispis nga daw pareho kadamo sa balas sa baybayon.
Ginpahugpa niya ini sa palibot sang ila mga tolda didto sa ila nga kampo.
Gani nagkaon sila kag nagkalabusog, kay ginhatag sang Dios sa ila ang gusto nila.
kay ginsugid ini sa aton sang aton mga katigulangan.
Pero samtang nagapagusto sila sang kaon,
Ginpamatay niya ang makusog nga mga pamatan-on sang Israel.
Bisan naghimo siya sang mga milagro, wala sila nagtuo sa iya.
Gani gulpi lang niya gintapos ang ila kabuhi paagi sa hinali nga kalaglagan.
ang nabilin nagdangop sa iya kag naghinulsol, nga nagahandom gid sa iya.
amo ang ila palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato kag manunubos.
Pero nagadayaw-dayaw lang sila sa iya. Mga butigon sila.
indi sila matutom sa ila kasugtanan sa iya.
Sa madamo nga tion ginpunggan niya ang iya kaakig bisan puwerte na gid ang iya kaugot.
Naisip niya nga sila mga tawo lang, nga pareho sa nagalabay nga hangin nga nagakadula lang.
kag sang iya dalayawon kag makatilingala nga mga binuhatan.
Pila ka beses sila nga nagrebelde sa Dios kag nagpasubo sa iya didto sa kamingawan.
ginsakit nila ang balatyagon sang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.
sadtong tion nga ginluwas niya sila sa ila mga kaaway
didto sa Zoan, sa duta sang Egypt.
kag tungod sini wala na sila sing mainom.
kag sang mga paka sa paghalit sang ila mga duta.
Ginpakaon niya sa mga apan ang ila mga tanom kag mga patubas.
Ginpamatay niya ang ila mga ubas kag mga kahoy nga sikomoro paagi sa ulan nga yelo.
Ginpamatay niya ang ila mga kasapatan paagi man sa ulan nga yelo kag sa kilat.
ginpadal-an niya sila sang mga anghel sa paglaglag sa ila.
Ginmanduan niya ang aton mga katigulangan nga itudlo ini sa ila mga kabataan,
kundi ginpamatay niya sila paagi sa mga kahalitan.
nga amo ang lugar sang mga kaliwat ni Ham.
kag gintuytuyan niya sila sa kamingawan.
Pero ang ila mga kaaway nagkalalumos sa dagat.
Gindala niya sila sa duta nga iya ginpili, didto sa bukid
kag didto niya sila ginpaestar.
Wala nila gintuman ang iya mga sugo.
Indi sila masaligan pareho sa guba nga pana.
tungod sang ila mga dios-dios sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar.
gani nangakig siya kag ginsikway niya sila sing bug-os.
kag matudlo man nila ini sa ila mga kabataan.
Ginbayaan niya ang iya tolda sa Shilo nga iya ginpuy-an sa tunga sang katawhan.
nga simbolo sang nga simbolo sang iya pagkagamhanan kag pagkahalangdon.
gani ginpapatay niya sila sa inaway.
gani nawad-an sang palamanahon ang ila mga dalaga.
kag ang ila mga balo nga wala makapangasubo para sa ila.
pareho siya sa isa ka makusog nga tawo nga ginpaisog sang bino.
ginpakahuy-an niya sila hasta san-o.
Wala niya pagpilia ang tribo ni Efraim
Sa baylo, ginpili niya ang tribo ni Juda kag ang Bukid sang Zion nga iya ginapakamahal.
kag magapabilin ini hasta san-o pareho sang duta.
kundi tumanon nila ang iya mga sugo.
kag gindumalahan niya sila sing maayo.
indi matinumanon, indi mabakod ang ila pagsalig sa Dios, kag indi matutom sa iya.
nagpalalagyo sang tion sang inaway.
Gindagtaan nila ang imo balaan nga templo kag ginlaglag ang Jerusalem.
nga balusan mo sila sa ila pagpamatay sang imo katawhan nga imo katawhan nga imo mga alagad.
Mga palatyon sila, gani hilwaya sila paagi sa imo gahom.
sa ila nga pagpakahuya sa imo.
Dayawon ka namon permi hasta san-o.
ang mga bangkay sang imo matutom nga mga alagad.
kag wala sing may nabilin nga maglubong sa mga patay.
Ginapakahuy-an kami kag ginayaguta sang mga nasyon sa palibot namon.
Magadabdab na lang bala pareho sa kalayo ang imo kaimon?
nga wala nagakilala kag nagasimba sa imo.
Kay ginpamatay nila ang imo katawhan
Sa baylo, kaluoyi kami gilayon kay wala na gid kami sing may mahimo.
Luwasa kami kag patawara sa amon mga sala para mapadunggan ka.
Ikaw nga nagapungko sa imo trono sa tunga sang mga kerubin, ipakita ang imo gahom
kag hasta sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates .
Gani ginakawat sang tanan nga nagaagi ang mga bunga sini.
Kag ginakaon ini sang talunon nga mga baboy kag sang iban pa nga talunon nga mga sapat.
Dumduma kami nga imo katawhan nga kami nga imo katawhan nga
Dumduma kami nga imo mga anak nga imo ginpabakod para sa imo kadayawan.
Gintulok mo kami nga may kaakig kag ginlaglag mo kami.
kag ginpabakod para sa imo kadayawan,
kag simbahon ka namon.
Ipakita sa amon ang imo kaayo para maluwas kami.
Ipakita na ang imo gahom, kag kadtui kami kag luwasa.
hasta san-o pa bala ang imo kaakig sa mga pangamuyo namon nga imo katawhan?
Ginpuno mo kami sang kasubo, kag halos mainom na namon ang amon mga luha.
kag sila nga amon mga kaaway nagayaguta sa amon.
kag gintanom sa duta nga ang mga katawhan sini gintabog mo.
kag nagpanggamot sing maayo ang ubas kag nagpangalapkap ini sa bilog nga duta.
Maghinugyaw kamo sa Dios ni Jacob!
Magpangayo kamo sa akon kag hatagan ko kamo sang inyo mga kinahanglanon.
“Pero kamo nga mga Israelinhon nga akon katawhan, wala kamo magpamati kag magtuman sa akon.
Gani ginpabay-an ko kamo sa inyo pagkabatinggilan, kag ginhimo ninyo ang inyo gusto.
Kon magpamati lang kuntani kamo kag magsunod sa akon mga pamaagi,
silutan kag pierdihon ko gilayon ang inyo mga kaaway.
Ang ila silot wala sing katapusan.
Pero kamo nga akon katawhan pakaunon kag busgon ko sang labing maayo nga trigo kag honey.”
kag patukara ang manami pamatian nga mga instrumento nga may mga kuwerdas.
Patunuga ninyo ang budyong sa pagsaulog sang Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan kag sang piesta
Sugo ini sang Dios ni Jacob.
Nakabati ako sang tingog nga wala ko makilal-i nga nagasiling nga nagasiling ,
ginkuha ko ang mga mabug-at nga ginapas-an kag ginabitbit ninyo.
Gintilawan ko kamo didto sa tuburan sang Meriba.
Magpamati kuntani kamo sa akon!
indi gid kamo magsimba sa ila.
kag ginahukman niya sila.
Hasta san-o pa bala ninyo paboran ang mga malain?
Depensahi ninyo ang kinamatarong sang ginadaogdaog nga mga kubos.
Luwasa ang mga wala sing ikasarang kag ang mga imol sa gahom sang malain nga mga tawo!
Nagakabuhi kamo sa kadulom, amo gani nga wala na sing kahusayan sa kalibutan.
kag tanan kamo mga anak ko.
Madula ang inyo kabuhi pareho sa bisan sin-o nga pangulo sa kalibutan sa kalibutan .”
Sige na, O Dios, hukmi ang tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan, kay imo sila.
O Dios, indi ka lang magpahimuyong. Maghulag ka!
Nagkalamatay sila sa Endor kag ang ila mga bangkay nagkaladunot kag nangin abuno sa duta.
pareho sang imo ginhimo kay Oreb kag kay Zeeb, kag kay Zeba kag kay Zalmuna.
Nagsiling sila, “Agawon ta ang duta sang Dios.”
O Dios ko, laptaha sila pareho sang yab-ok ukon sang upa nga ginapalid sang hangin.
Pakahuy-i sila, Ginoo Ginoo , hasta nga magdangop sila sa imo.
Kabay pa nga mapatay sila nga kahuluya!
amo lang ang Labing Mataas nga Dios sa bilog nga kalibutan.
nagaginual sila sa pagsalakay kag nagapahambog sila nga magadaog sila.
Nagaplano sila sing tago kontra sa imo katawhan nga imo ginaatipan.
para malimtan ini hasta san-o.”
Naghimo sila sang kasugtanan sa pagkontra sa imo.
Sila amo ang mga Edomnon, Ishmaelinhon, Moabnon, Hagarnon,
Gebalnon, Ammonhon, Amaleknon, Filistinhon, kag ang katawhan sang Tyre.
Nagbulig man sa ila ang Assyria nga isa ka makusog nga kaliwat ni Lot.
kag kay Sisera kag kay Jabin sa Kishon nga ililigan sang tubig.
Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, daw ano katahom sang imo templo.
sang sa magpuyo sa balay sang mga malain.
nga ang ila pagkabuhi wala sing kasawayan.
Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, bulahan ang mga tawo nga nagasalig sa imo.
Ang bilog ko nga pagkatawo magakanta nga may kalipay sa imo, O buhi nga Dios.
nga sa diin ginabutang nila ang ila mga buto.
permi sila nagakanta sang mga pagdayaw sa imo.
nga nagahandom gid nga magbisita sa imo templo.
nga daw sa gin-ulanan ini nga lugar kag nagdanaw.
hasta nga ang kada isa sa ila makita didto sa presensya sang Dios sa Zion.
Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom, Dios ni Jacob, pamatii ang akon pangamuyo!
Pakamaayuha, O Dios, ang amon manugprotektar
ginbalik mo ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang mga kaliwat sang mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
kag amo man ang pagkamatarong kag ang kalinong.
Kag ang pagkamatarong sang Dios sa langit mabaton sang tawo sa duta.
kag magapatubas ang aton duta.
kag magapreparar sang iya alagyan.
ginkuha mo ang tanan namon nga mga sala.
Gindula mo ang imo puwerte nga kaakig sa amon.
Dulaa na ang imo kaakig sa amon.
Indi na gid bala mag-untat ang imo kaakig sa amon hasta san-o?
Indi mo na bala pag-ibalik liwat ang amon maayo nga kahimtangan para magkalipay kami sa imo?
Ginoo Ginoo , ipakita sa amon ang imo gugma kag luwasa kami.
ina kon indi kita magbalik sa aton nga kabuangan.
sa pagpakita nga nagapabilin ang iya gahom sa aton duta.
Ginoo Ginoo , pamatii kag sabta ang akon pangamuyo kay kubos kag imol ako.
kag ikaw lang ang Dios.
Buligi ako nga mangin matinud-anon sa akon pagtahod sa imo.
ginluwas mo ako sa kamatayon.
Mahigugmaon ka kag matutom, kag indi dali mangakig.
hatagi ako sang imo kusog kag luwasa ako nga imo suluguon.
Kay ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagabulig kag nagalipay sa akon.
Ikaw ang akon Dios; luwasa ako nga imo alagad nga nagasalig sa imo.
Kaluoyi ako, Ginoo, kay permi ako nagapanawag sa imo.
Lipaya ako, Ginoo, nga imo alagad kay sa imo ako nagapangamuyo.
kag puno ka sang paghigugma sa tanan nga nagapanawag sa imo.
pamatii ang akon pagpakitluoy sa imo.
Nagapanawag ako sa imo sa tion sang kalisod kay ginasabat mo ako.
wala sing bisan sin-o nga makahimo sang imo mga ginpanghimo.
Pagadayawon ka nila.
Maayo nga mga butang ang iya ginahambal parte sa sining iya siyudad.
Kabigon ko ang ila mga katawhan nga mga tumandok sang Zion.”
Kag ang Labing Mataas nga Dios mismo amo ang magapabakod sang sini nga siyudad.
kag ilakip niya ang mga katawhan nga kabigon niya nga mga tumandok sang Zion.
Sila tanan magasaot kag magakanta sang, “Nagahalin sa Zion ang tanan ta nga pagpakamaayo!”
Adlaw-gab-i nagapanawag ako sa imo.
kag wala sila nagabangon sa pagdayaw sa imo.
Ang imo gugma kag katutom wala ginahambalan sa lugar sang mga patay.
nga sa diin ang tanan indi na madumduman.
Kada aga nagapangamuyo ako sa imo.
Ngaa bala nagapanago ka sa akon?
Ginaantos ko ang mga makahaladlok nga ginahimo mo sa akon.
Ginalaglag mo ako sang imo makahaladlok nga ginahimo sa akon,
ginapalibutan nila ako sing bug-os.
ang kadulom amo na lang ang akon kaupod.
sabta ang akon pagpanawag sa imo.
kag daw sa mapatay na gid ako.
Pareho ako sa tawo nga indi na matabangan.
nga ginkalimtan mo na kag indi mo na mabuligan.
Daw sa ginhaboy mo ako sa puwerte kadalom kag kadulom nga buho.
daw sa mga balod ini nga nagahampak sa akon.
Daw napriso ako kag indi na makapalagyo.
Ginoo Ginoo , adlaw-adlaw nagapanawag ako sa imo nga nagabayaw sang akon mga kamot.
Isugid ko ang imo katutom hasta san-o.
Paagi sa imo gahom ginpalapta mo ang imo mga kaaway.
gintuga mo ang kalibutan kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini.
daw sa mga tawo nga nagakanta sa imo sa kalipay.
Gamhanan ka gid! Puwerte ikaw kakusog!
Nagahari ka nga may pagkamatarong kag hustisya, nga ginapangunahan sang gugma kag katutom.
nga nagakabuhi sa kaayo sang imo presensya.
kag ginadayaw nila ang imo pagkamatarong.
Tungod sa imo kaayo nagmadinalag-on kami.
ikaw ang nagapanag-iya sang amon hari nga nagaprotektar sa amon.
Ginpili ko siya halin sa akon katawhan para mangin hari.
Ipahibalo ko nga mabakod ang imo gugma hasta san-o, kag magapadayon pareho sang langit.
paagi sa paghaplas sa iya sang akon balaan nga lana.
Ang akon gahom magaupod sa iya kag magapabaskog sa iya.
indi makadaogdaog sa iya ang mga malain.
Samtang nagatulok siya dugmukon ko ang iya mga kaaway hasta nga magkalamatay sila.
Kag paagi sa akon gahom magmadinalag-on siya.
hasta sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates .
ikaw ang palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato nga nagaluwas sa akon.’
Kabigon ko siya nga akon kamagulangan nga anak, ang labing gamhanan sa tanan nga hari.
kag ang akon kasugtanan sa iya indi gid magpalyar.
ang iya ginharian magadugay pareho kadugay sang langit.
Kag amo ini ang akon ginpromisa sa iya:
silutan ko sila sing masakit tungod sang ila mga sala.
Pero higugmaon kag unungan ko gihapon si David.
kag indi ko pagliwaton ang akon ginpromisa sa iya.
Sa akon balaan nga ngalan, nakapromisa na ako nga indi gid ako magbutig sa kay David.
Ang iya ginharian magadugay sa akon panulok pareho kadugay sang adlaw;
pareho sang bulan nga ginakabig nga masaligan nga manugpamatuod sa langit.”
gintalikdan mo siya kag ginsikway.
kag ginkuha mo ang iya awtoridad bilang hari.
ang imo ginharian magapadayon hasta san-o.”
Gin-guba mo ang iya napaderan nga mga siyudad.
Ginpakahuy-an siya sang iya katupad nga mga nasyon.
ginlipay mo sila tanan.
kag ginpapierdi mo siya sa inaway.
Ginkuha mo ang iya pagkagamhanan
kag ginpakahuy-an mo siya.
Hasta san-o pa bala ang imo kaakig nga daw sa kalayo?
dumduma nga ginhimo mo ang tawo nga may kamatayon.
Makalikaw bala ang tawo sa kamatayon?
nga ginpromisa mo kay David sa imo katutom sa iya?
nagadayaw sa imo makatilingala nga mga binuhatan kag sa imo katutom.
Dumduma, Ginoo, ang pagpakahuya sang madamo nga nasyon sa imo mga alagad,
amo ang nagayaguta sang imo pinili nga hari bisan diin siya magkadto.
Wala sing langitnon nga tinuga nga makapareho sa imo.
Sila tanan nga nagapalibot sa imo may kahadlok gid sa imo.
gamhanan ka kag matutom sa tanan mo nga ginahimo.
ginapalinaw mo ang iya dalagko nga mga balod.
Ginoo, ikaw ang amon puluy-an halin pa sang una.
Matuod gid man nga sa indi madugay matapos ang amon kabuhi kag madula kami.
Kag samtang nagadugang ang amon ihibalo sa imo kaakig nagadugang man ang amon pagtahod sa imo.
para mangin mainalamon kami sa amon pagkabuhi.
Talupangda kag kaluoyi kami nga kami nga imo mga alagad.
kag mangin malipayon kami sa bilog namon nga kabuhi.
nga ginsilutan mo kami kag ginpaantos.
ang imo makatilingala nga binuhatan kag ang imo pagkagamhanan.
sa tanan namon nga mga ginahimo.
kag ikaw gihapon ang Dios hasta san-o.
ginabalik mo siya sa duta nga amo ang iya ginhalinan.
ukon daw malip-ot lang nga oras sa kagab-ihon.
Ginabutangan mo sang katapusan ang amon kabuhi pareho sa damgo
pero pagkahapon nagakalaya kag nagakapatay.
Ang imo kaakig sa amon nagapahadlok kag nagalaglag sa amon.
Bisan ang mga sala nga nahimo namon sa tago hayag sa imo presensya.
matapos ang amon kabuhi sa daw isa lang ka panghayhay.
wala sing kalamidad ukon kahalitan nga magaabot sa imo ukon sa imo panimalay.
Kay suguon sang Dios ang iya mga anghel sa pagbantay sa imo bisan diin ka makadto.
Tapakon mo ang mga leon kag ang dalitan nga mga man-og.
ang nagahigugma kag nagakilala sa akon.
luwason ko siya kag padunggan.
kag ipakita ko sa iya ang akon pagluwas sa iya.”
Ikaw ang akon Dios nga akon ginasaligan.”
Sigurado gid nga ilikaw ka niya sa mga siod kag sa makamamatay nga mga balatian.
Sa iya katutom, protektaran ka niya kag apinan.
Bisan linibo ka tawo ang magkalamatay sa imo palibot, indi ka maano.
Makita mo lang kon paano ginasilutan ang malain nga mga tawo.
ang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga akon manugprotektar,
maayo gid ang magpasalamat kag magkanta sang mga pagdayaw sa imo.
kag ginhatagan mo ako sang kalipay.
Nabatian ko kag nakita mismo ang pagkapierdi sang akon malain nga mga kaaway.
kag magabakod sila pareho sa kahoy nga sedro sang Lebanon.
kag padayon nga malagtom kag mabakod.
wala gid sing kalautan sa iya.
Maayo gid ang magsugid sang imo gugma kag katutom adlaw-gab-i,
nga ginatukaran sang mga instrumento nga may mga kuwerdas.
Tungod sang imo mga ginhimo nagakanta ako sa kalipay.
Indi namon matungkad ang imo hunahuna.
Indi maintiendihan sang mga buang-buang ukon sang mga balingag
nga bisan mag-uswag ang mga malain pareho sa hilamon nga nagatubo, laglagon sila hasta san-o.
Pero ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo , labaw sa tanan hasta san-o.
Sigurado gid nga ang tanan mo nga malain nga mga kaaway magalalapta kag magakalamatay.
Ginpahamtang mo sing mabakod ang kalibutan kag indi ini mauyog.
kay ara ka na sadto pa.
kag nagalinagumba ang mga balod.
mas gamhanan ka sang sa mga balod sini.
kag ang pagkabalaan amo ang nagapatahom sa imo templo hasta san-o.
ipakita na ang imo pagbalos.
Siya nga nagatudlo sa mga tawo, indi bala siya makahibalo?
Nahibaluan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ang mga ginahunahuna
paagi sa pagtudlo sa iya sang imo kasuguan.
hasta sa tion nga silutan mo ang mga malain.
Kay indi mo gid pagsikwayon, Ginoo Ginoo , ang katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan.
kag suportaran ini sang tanan nga tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto.
Wala sing iban nga nagabulig sa akon kontra sa malain nga mga tawo.
Kon wala mo ako ginabuligan siguro patay na ako subong.
ginbuligan mo ako sang imo gugma.
Sang nagakabalaka ako, ginpabakod mo ako kag nalipay ako.
gani, sige na, balusi ang mga bugalon sang nagakabagay sa ila.
Indi puwede nga kadampig ka sang malain nga mga manughukom,
kag ginasentensyahan nila sang kamatayon ang mga wala sing sala.
Pero ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, amo ang akon dalangpan kag palalipdan nga bato.
Laglagon mo gid sila, Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Hasta san-o pa bala ang pagsinadya sang mga malain, Ginoo Ginoo ?
Sila tanan nga nagahimo sang malain puwerte magpahambog.
Ginadaogdaog nila ang katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan.
Ginapamatay nila ang mga balo nga babayi, ang mga ilo, kag ang mga pangayaw.
ang Dios ni Jacob wala nagasapak.”
Abi intiendiha ninyo ini:
indi bala siya makabati kag makakita?
kag maghinugyaw kita sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato nga nagaluwas sa aton.
kag wala nagasunod sa akon mga ginatudlo sa ila.
nga indi gid nila mabaton ang kapahuwayan nga halin sa akon.”
kag maghinugyaw kita nga nagakanta sang mga pagdayaw sa iya.
Gamhanan siya nga hari kag labaw sa tanan nga dios.
kag sang mga putokputokan sang mga bukid.
Siya man ang nagapanag-iya sang dagat kag sang duta nga iya ginpanghimo.
Dali, magluhod kita sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo nga naghimo sa aton.
Kon mabatian ninyo subong ang tingog sang Dios,
subong man sang didto sila sa Masa sa may kamingawan.
bisan nakita na nila ang akon ginhimo sa ila sa ila .
magkanta kamo sang bag-o nga kanta sa Ginoo Ginoo !
Pagahukman niya ang mga tawo nga wala sing may pinilian.
Pagahukman niya sila nga may pagkamatarong kag suno sa iya kamatuoran.
ang kusog kag katahom ara sa iya nga templo.
kag magdala kamo sang halad sa inyo pagsulod sa iya templo.
Magtahod kamo sa iya presensya, kamo nga mga katawhan sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Gani magkalipay ang kalibutan, pati na ang mga isla.
kag ginaluwas niya sila sa kamot sang mga malain.
kag nagahatag ini sang kalipay sa ila.
Dayawa ninyo siya bilang pagdumdom kon ano siya ka balaan.
kag nagahari siya nga may pagkamatarong kag hustisya.
Nagauna sa iya ang kalayo nga nagasunog sa iya mga kaaway sa palibot.
Pagkakita sini sang mga tawo nagakulurog sila sa kahadlok sa kahadlok .
ang Ginoo nga nagagahom sa bilog nga kalibutan.
kag ang tanan nga katawhan nakakita sang iya pagkagamhanan.
Ang tanan nga dios nagaluhod sa pagsimba sa Dios.
gani nagakalipay sila.
Mas labaw ka sang sa tanan nga dios.
Paagi sa iya kaugalingon nga gahom kag kusog napierdi niya ang aton mga kaaway.
Ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga nasyon nga ginbuligan niya kita kag ginpadaog.
kon paano kita ginpadaog sang aton Dios.
Magkanta kamo sing malipayon sa pagdayaw sa iya.
pati na ang dagat kag ang tanan nga ara sa iya.
Magpalakpak ang mga suba kag magdulungan kanta sa kalipay ang mga bukid.
Pagahukman niya sila sing husto, nga wala siya sing may pinilian.
Gani nagakurog ang mga tawo sa pagtahod sa iya sa pagtahod sa iya kag nagatay-og ang kalibutan.
nagagahom siya sa tanan nga katawhan.
kag matarong kag husto ang iya ginahimo sa Israel.
Nagpanawag sila sa iya kag ginsabat niya sila.
gintuman nila ang mga pagpanudlo kag pagsulundan nga ginhatag niya sa ila.
Ginpakita mo sa ila nga mapinatawaron ka nga Dios bisan ginsilutan mo sila sa ila mga sala.
kay balaan ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios.
maghinugyaw kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo sa kalipay.
Magpalapit kamo sa iya nga nagakanta sing malipayon.
Iya kita katawhan nga ginaatipan niya pareho sa mga karnero.
Dayawa ninyo siya kag pasalamati.
kag ang iya katutom nagapadayon hasta san-o.
Magakanta ako sang mga pagdayaw sa imo.
Magakabuhi ako nga wala sing kasawayan sa akon panimalay,
indi ako maghimo sina.
indi ako mag-intra sa ila kalautan.
Indi ko pagtugutan ang mga buhat sang mga bugalon kag matinaas-taason.
Mangin kaupod ko sila tungod kay tugutan ko sila nga mag-alagad sa akon.
Ang mga tawo nga dayaon kag butigon indi makatiner sa akon palasyo.
Madula sila sa siyudad sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pamatii ang akon pagpangayo sang bulig sa imo.
kay daw pareho daw pareho ako sa basura nga sa basura nga ginpudyot mo kag ginhaboy.
Kag pareho ako sa hilamon nga nagakalaya.
dumdumon ka sang mga tawo hasta san-o.
tungod kay nag-abot na ang natalana nga tion nga ipakita mo ang imo kaayo sa iya.
sang imo katawhan nga imo katawhan nga imo mga alagad.
ang tanan nga hari sa kalibutan magatahod sa iya nga gamhanan nga presensya.
ipakita niya ang iya gamhanan nga presensya.
indi niya pag-ibaliwala ang ila pangamuyo.
para magadayaw sila sa Ginoo Ginoo :
Ginatulok sang Ginoo Ginoo ang kalibutan didto sa iya balaan nga lugar sa langit,
kag sabta ako gilayon.
kag para hilwayon niya ang iya katawhan nga iya katawhan nga palatyon.
kag didto pagadayawon siya.
halin sa mga nasyon kag mga ginharian sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
ginapalip-ot niya ang akon kabuhi.
indi anay pagkuhaa ang akon kabuhi sa wala pa ako magtigulang.
Sang una gintuga mo ang kalibutan kag ang kalangitan.
Kag pareho man sa bayo, ilisan mo sila kag mawala sila.
wala ka sing katapusan.
magakabuhi nga luwas sa katalagman kag bantayan mo sila.”
ang akon lawas
Kag nadulaan ako sang gana magkaon
Daw sa tul-an na lang ako nga ginputos sang panit.
ukon pareho sa bukaw sa guba nga lugar nga wala sing may nagaestar nga tawo.
Indi ako makatulog; pareho ako sa pispis nga nagaisahanon sa atop sang balay.
kag ginagamit nila nga halimbawa ang akon malain nga kahimtangan sa pagsumpa sa iban.
kundi nagapungko na lang sa abo
Dayawon ko ang iya pagkabalaan
Wala siya nagbalos sa aton suno sa aton mga kalautan.
dako man ang iya paghigugma sa mga nagatahod sa iya.
malayo man ang pagseparar niya sang aton mga sala sa aton.
ang Ginoo Ginoo maluluy-on man sa mga nagatahod sa iya.
Ginadumdom niya nga ginhimo kita halin sa duta.
Nagauswag kita pareho sa nagalambo nga bulak sa latagon.
kag nadula ini kag indi na makita.
Ginbutang sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya trono sa langit, kag nagahari siya sa tanan.
kag dapat indi ko pagkalimtan kon ano ang iya kaayo.
nga nagapamati kag nagatuman sang iya mga pulong.
nga nagaalagad sa iya kag nagatuman sang iya kabubut-on.
Dapat dayawon ko gid ang Ginoo Ginoo .
kag ginaayo niya ang tanan ko nga balatian.
kag ginabendisyunan niya ako sang iya gugma kag kaluoy.
sa bagay nga nagabataon ako kag makusog pareho sa agila.
ginahatagan niya sila sang hustisya.
kag ginpakita niya sa katawhan sang Israel ang iya gamhanan nga mga binuhatan.
mahigugmaon siya kag indi dali mangakig.
kag indi permanente ang iya kaakig.
Ang imo pagkadungganon kag pagkahalangdon daw amo ang imo bayo.
kag nag-ilig ang tubig sa gin-utlan sang mga bukid.
Gani ang tanan nga talunon nga mga sapat, pati ang talunon nga mga donkey, makainom.
kag sa mga sanga sang kahoy nagakanta sila.
Kag tungod sa sining imo ginahimo, nagabaton sang pagpakamaayo ang kalibutan.
agod may kalan-on sila halin sa mga patubas—
kag may tinapay nga makapabaskog sa ila.
Natubigan sing maayo ang imo mga kahoy nga sedro sa Lebanon nga imo mismo gintanom.
ang mga pispis nga mga pispis nga dugwak
kag ang mga sapat nga sapat nga badier
kag ang adlaw ginapasalop mo sa husto nga oras.
kag ginahumlad mo ang langit nga daw sa tolda.
kag kon gab-i nagaguluwa ang madamo nga sapat sa kagulangan.
Nagangurob ang mga leon samtang nagapangita sang ila pagkaon nga ginahatag mo sa ila.
Kag kon magbutlak na ang adlaw nagabalik sila sa ila palanaguan kag didto nagaluko.
Ang mga tawo ya nagaguwa sa ila mga balay sa ila mga balay sa pag-obra hasta magsirom.
Ang kalibutan puno sang imo mga ginhimo.
kag may madamo ini nga mga tinuga nga indi maisip, dalagko kag magagmay.
kag dira man nagalangoy-langoy ang dragon nga dragon nga Leviatan nga imo gintuga.
sa tion nga kinahanglan nila.
kag nagakabusog sila.
kag nagabalik sila sa duta nga amo ang ila ginhalinan.
kag nagasakay ka nga ginapalid sang hangin.
Sa sina nga paagi ginahatagan mo sang bag-o nga mga tinuga ang kalibutan.
Kabay pa nga magkalipay ka sa imo mga ginhimo.
Kon tandugon mo ang mga bukid, nagaaso ini.
Magakanta ako sang mga pagdayaw sa akon Dios samtang nagakabuhi ako.
Magakalipay ako sa Ginoo Ginoo ;
Dayawa ang Ginoo Ginoo !
kag ang nagadabdab nga kalayo
kag indi ini mauyog hasta san-o.
kag naglapaw ini sa mga bukid.
Sa imo nga pagsabdong nga nagadaguob, naghawa ang tubig.
kag sa iban pa nga mga lugar nga ginpreparar mo para sa ila.
para indi nila liwat matabunan ang kalibutan.
kag magapadayon ini nga kasugtanan sa Israel hasta san-o.
“Ihatag ko sa imo ang duta sang Canaan bilang palanublion ninyo.”
Gin-ubos niya kuha ang tanan nila nga pagkaon.
Ginbaligya didto si Jose bilang isa ka ulipon.
Ginkadenahan ang iya mga tiil kag ginbutangan sang salsalon ang iya liog,
nagpamatuod nga matarong siya nga matarong siya .
Ginbuy-an siya sang hari sang Egypt sang Egypt nga nagadumala sa madamo nga katawhan,
kag ginhimo niya siya nga manugdumala sang iya palasyo kag sang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
kag sa pagtudlo sa iya mga manuglaygay.
kag didto sila nag-estar bilang mga pangayaw.
mabudlay na sila pierdihon sang mga taga-Egypt nga mga taga-Egypt nga ila mga kaaway.
ang iya katawhan nga iya mga alagad.
Dayon ginpadala niya si Moises nga iya alagad kag si Aaron nga iya pinili.
Ginpakita nila didto sa duta sang mga kaliwat ni Ham ang mga milagro sang Dios.
pero nagsupak gihapon
gani nagkalamatay ang mga isda.
Napuno sang paka ang ila duta, bisan ang mga kuwarto sang ila mga pangulo.
Sa pagmando sang Dios, napuno sang langaw kag lamok
Imbes ulan, yelo kag kilat ang ginpadala niya sa ila duta.
kag ang iban pa nga mga kahoy.
Sa iya pagmando, nag-abot ang mga apan
Kag ginpangaon sini ang tanan nga tanom sa ila duta pati na ang ila mga patubas.
Ginpamatay sang Dios ang tanan nila nga kamagulangan nga lalaki.
kag may dala pa sila nga mga pilak kag mga bulawan.
tungod kay nahadlok sila sa ila.
kag sang kalayo sa paghatag sang kasanag sa ila sa kagab-ihon.
kag ginbusog niya sila sang pagkaon nga halin sa langit.
Nag-ilig ini sa desierto nga daw sa suba.
kay wala niya ginkalimtan ang iya mismo promisa kay Abraham nga iya alagad.
nga malipayon kag nagahinugyaw sa kalipay.
ginpanubli nila ang ginpangabudlayan sang iban.
Dayawa ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ini nga kasugtanan ginhimo niya kay Abraham kag ginpromisa man niya kay Isaac.
Ginluwas niya sila sa kamot sang mga kaaway.
kag wala gid sing may nakaluwas sa ila.
kag nagkanta sila sang pagdayaw sa iya.
kag wala sila maghulat sang iya laygay.
Didto sa kamingawan, gintilawan nila ang Dios tungod sang ila sobra nga handom sa pagkaon.
pero ginpadal-an man niya sila sang balatian nga nagpaluya sa ila.
Si Aaron Si Aaron gindedikar nga mag-alagad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani nagbuka ang duta kag nahulog si Datan kag si Abiram kag ang ila mga pamilya.
Kag may kalayo pa gid nga nagsunog sa ila malain nga mga sumulunod.
kag ginsimba nila ini nga dios-dios.
sang gamhanan nga mga binuhatan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
sang imahen sang isa ka turo nga baka nga nagahalab sang hilamon.
sa pagkombinsi sa iya nga punggan niya ang iya kaakig para indi niya sila malaglag.
Ginbaliwala pa gid nila ang maayo nga duta kay wala sila magtuo sa promisa sang Dios.
Nagkinumod sila sa ila mga tolda kag wala sila magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani nagpanumpa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga pamatyon niya sila sa kamingawan,
kag laptahon niya ang ila mga kaliwat sa iban nga mga nasyon nga sa diin magakalamatay sila.
kag nagkaon sila sang mga halad nga ginhalad sa mga patay.
gani nag-abot sa ila ang kahalitan.
Bulahan ang tawo nga nagahimo sing husto kag matarong sa tanan nga tion.
gani nag-untat ang kahalitan.
kag dumdumon ini sang mga tawo hasta san-o.
kag naglain gid ang buot ni Moises sa ila mga ginhimo.
nakahambal siya sang mga pulong nga wala niya paghunahunaa sing maayo.
suno sa ginsiling sa ila sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa baylo, nagpakig-isa sila sa sini nga mga katawhan kag ginsunod nila ang ila pagginawi.
Ginsimba nila ang ila mga dios-dios kag nagdala ini sang kalaglagan sa ila.
Ginhalad nila ang ila mga kabataan sa mga demonyo
ginhigkuan nila ang duta sang Canaan sang Canaan
Tungod sang ila ginhimo, nagluib sila sa Dios pareho sa isa ka babayi nga nagpanginlalaki.
luwasa man ako kon magluwas ka sa ila,
kag ginkangil-aran niya sila.
kag gin-gamhan sila sang sini nga mga nasyon.
Gindaogdaog sila sang ila mga kaaway kag gin-ulipon.
gani nalaglag sila tungod sang ila sala.
Pero kon magpanawag gani sila sa Dios, ginabuligan niya gihapon sila sa ila mga kalisod.
nagbaylo ang iya hunahuna nga indi na niya sila pagsilutan nga indi na niya sila pagsilutan .
Ginbuot niya nga kaluoyan sila sang mga nagbihag sa ila.
kag makaupod ako sa ila pagdayaw sa imo.
malain gid ang amon ginhimo.
kag nagrebelde sila sa imo sa Mapula nga Dagat.
Pero ginluwas mo sila para mapadunggan ka kag makita nila ang imo gahom.
nga daw sa nagalakat lang sila sa desierto.
kag nagapungko sila sa madulom gid nga prisohan.
kag ginbaliwala nila ang iya mga laygay.
Nagkalatumba sila pero wala sing may nagbulig sa ila.
kag ginluwas niya sila.
kag ginpanguha niya sila sa madulom gid nga prisohan.
kag sang iya makatilingala nga mga binuhatan sa mga tawo.
kag ginapangbali ang mga rehas nga salsalon.
May mga buang-buang nga nagaantos tungod sang ila mga paglapas kag kalautan.
Nalainan sila sang tanan nga pagkaon kag dali na lang sila mapatay.
Ihambal ninyo ina, kamo nga iya ginluwas sa kamot sang mga kaaway.
Ginluwas niya sila sa kamatayon.
kag samtang nagakanta sila sa kalipay isugid nila ang iya mga binuhatan.
nga amo ang ila palangabuhian.
Nakita nila ang makatilingala nga mga binuhatan sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kadagatan.
Sa iya nga pagmando, naghangin sing mabaskog kag nagdalagko ang mga balod.
Nadulaan sila sang kaisog sa sina nga katalagman.
kag indi na sila makahibalo kon ano ang ila himuon.
kag ginbuligan niya sila.
Ginpauntat niya ang mabaskog nga hangin kag naglinaw ang dagat.
Kay gintipon niya kamo halin sa mga duta sa east, west, north, kag south.
kag gintuytuyan sila sang Dios sa dulungkaan nga ginahandom nila.
kag dayawon man nila siya sa pagtililipon sang ila mga manugdumala.
kag ginahimo niya ang mga tuburan nga mamala nga duta.
tungod sang mga kalautan sang mga nagaestar dira.
kag ginahimo niya ang mamala nga mga duta nga mga tuburan.
kag nagatukod sila dira sang siyudad nga ila estaran.
kag bugana ang ila mga patubas.
Bisan ang ila mga kasapatan wala niya ginatugutan nga magdiutay.
tungod sang pagdaog-daog, pagsakit, kag pagpaantos sa ila,
indi nila makita ang alagyan pakadto sa siyudad nga may nagaestar nga mga tawo.
kag ginapatalang sa desierto nga wala sing mga dalan.
kag ginapadamo niya ang ila mga pamilya pareho sa mga panong sang kasapatan.
pero ang tanan nga malain wala gid sing may masiling.
dapat hunahunaon nila ang dako nga gugma sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gin-gutom sila kag gin-uhaw, kag daw mapatay na sila.
Gintuytuyan niya sila sa dalan nga deretso sa siyudad nga may nagaestar nga mga tawo.
Kay ginapainom niya ang mga ginauhaw kag ginapakaon ang mga ginagutom.
Kantahan ko ikaw sang mga pagdayaw sa bug-os ko nga tagipusuon.
Buligi kami kontra sa amon mga kaaway, kay wala sing pulos ang bulig sang tawo.
kag ihanda ko ang akon mga instrumento nga may mga kuwerdas sa pagdayaw sa imo sa pagdayaw sa imo .
Kantahan ko ikaw sa tunga sang mga taga-iban nga nasyon.
Sabta ang akon pangamuyo para maluwas kami nga imo mga hinigugma.
O Dios, nga akon ginadayaw, sabta ang akon pagpanawag sa imo.
kag kabay pa nga palayason
kag kabay pa nga kuhaon sang mga pangayaw ang iya pinangabudlayan.
kon mapatay na siya kon mapatay na siya .
para malimtan na sila sa masunod nga henerasyon.
kundi ginahingabot niya kag ginapamatay ang mga kubos, mga imol, kag mga nadulaan sang paglaom.
Wala siya naluyag magbendisyon sa iban—kabay pa nga wala man sing may magbendisyon sa iya.
ukon pareho sang pagpanalupsop sang lana sa iya mga tul-an.
nga nagatabon sa iya lawas ukon daw sa paha nga ginapaha niya permi.”
Nagahambal sila sang binutig parte sa akon.
sa mga nagaakusar kag nagahambal sing malain sa akon.
Luwasa ako tungod sang imo kaayo kag gugma.
Kay kubos kag imol ako, kag nagasakit ang akon buot.
Daw pareho ako sa apan nga ginkahig.
Puwerte na ako kaniwang.
Nagalungo-lungo sila kon makita nila ako.
luwasa ako suno sa imo gugma.
Kag mabal-an sang akon mga kaaway nga ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagluwas sa akon.
Mahuy-an sila kon salakayon nila ako, pero ako nga imo alagad magakalipay.
Sila nga nagaakusar sa akon matabunan sang kahuy-anan pareho sa bayo nga nagatabon sa lawas.
Permi nila ako ginahambalan sing malain bisan wala sing kabangdanan.
dayawon ko siya sa atubangan sang madamo nga katawhan.
para maluwas sila sa mga nagasentensya sa ila sang kamatayon.
pero ginapangamuyuan ko sila.
kag ginabalusan nila ako sing kaakig sa akon pagpakig-abyan sa ila.
Nagasiling sila, Nagasiling sila,
Kag kabay pa nga ang iya pangamuyo kabigon nga sala.
Kabay pa nga indi magdugay ang iya kabuhi kag ihatag na lang sa iban ang iya katungdanan.
kag mabalo ang iya asawa.
“Pungko diri sa akon tuo hasta mapaidalom ko sa imo ang imo mga kaaway.”
kag magagahom ka sa imo mga kaaway.
pareho sa tun-og sa kaagahon.
nga pari ikaw hasta san-o, pareho sang pagkapari ni Melkizedek.
pagalaglagon niya ang mga hari sa tion nga ipakita niya ang iya kaakig.
Pagalaglagon niya ang mga nagadumala sa bilog nga kalibutan.
gani magabalik ang imo kusog kag magamadinalag-on ka.
sa pagtililipon sang matarong nga mga tawo.
Dalayawon siya hasta san-o.
ginapamalandungan ini sang tanan nga naluyag sini.
kag ang iya pagkamatarong nagapadayon hasta san-o.
Maluluy-on siya kag mabinalak-on;
kag ginadumdom niya permi ang iya kasugtanan.
paagi sa paghatag sa ila sang mga duta sang iban nga mga nasyon.
kag masaligan ang tanan niya nga mga sugo.
kag ginhatag niya ini nga may katutom kag pagkamatarong.
Balaan siya kag makatilingala.
Bulahan ang tawo nga nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagakalipay gid sa pagtuman sang iya mga sugo.
Ang ila mga plano indi magmadinalag-on.
kay ang mga kaliwat sang mga tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto pakamaayuhon sang Dios.
kag ang iya kaayo dumdumon hasta san-o.
nga nagakabuhi sing husto, maluluy-on, mabinalak-on, kag matarong.
Pakamaayuhon ang tawo nga maalwan kag nagapahulam, kag wala nagadaya sa iya palangabuhian.
ang matarong nga tawo pareho sa iya indi malimtan hasta san-o.
kay mabakod ang iya balatyagon kag nagasalig siya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
kay sa ulihi makita niya nga mapierdi ang iya mga kaaway.
kag ang iya ikasarang dugangan sang Dios sang Dios bilang pagpadungog sa iya.
Kamo nga mga katawhan mga katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya mga alagad, dayawa ninyo siya!
Kabay pa nga dayawon siya subong kag hasta san-o.
Halin sa east hasta sa west
Magagahom ang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga nasyon, ang iya pagkagamhanan indi matupungan.
nga nagapungko sa iya trono didto sa kahitaasan.
Nagaduko siya sa pagtulok
Ginabuligan niya ang mga kubos kag mga imol sa ila kapigaduhon.
Kag ginapadunggan niya sila kaupod sang dungganon nga mga tawo sang iya katawhan.
nga sa diin lain ang lingguahe sang mga tawo didto.
kag gindumalahan niya ang Israel.
Ang tubig sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan daw sa tawo nga daw sa tawo nga nag-isol.
nga nga daw sa nagalukso nga mga kanding kag mga karnero.
kag daw sa nag-isol ang tubig sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan?
Ngaa nag-uyog nag-uyog ang mga bukid nga daw sa nagalukso nga mga kanding kag mga karnero?
Nagatay-og ang kalibutan sa presensya sang Ginoo nga Dios ni Jacob,
kag mangin tuburan nga nagailig.
tungod sang imo gugma kag katutom.
Siya ang inyo manugbulig kag manugprotektar.
Pakamaayuhon niya ang katawhan sang Israel pati na ang mga kaliwat ni Aaron.
Pakamaayuhon niya ang tanan nga nagatahod sa iya, bantog man ukon indi.
Kabay pa nga kamo kag ang inyo mga kaliwat padamuon sang Ginoo Ginoo .
nga nagtuga sang kalangitan kag sang kalibutan.
Ang kalangitan iya sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero ang kalibutan gintugyan niya sa mga tawo.
Indi ang mga patay ang magadayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo , kay indi na gani sila makatingog,
“Diin na bala ang inyo Dios?”
Ang amon Dios ara sa langit kag ginahimo niya ang bisan ano nga iya naluyagan.
Pero ang ila mga dios-dios hinimo man lang sang tawo halin sa pilak kag bulawan.
may mga mata, pero indi makakita.
may mga ilong, pero indi makapanimaho.
kag bisan tingog wala ka sing may mabatian.
mangin pareho man sa ila nga wala sing pulos nga wala sing pulos .
kay ginapamatian niya ang akon pagpangayo sang bulig sa iya.
Nagatuo gihapon ako, bisan pa nga nagsiling ako,
Sa akon kahadlok nagsiling ako, “Wala gid sing tawo nga masaligan.”
Ano bala ang maibalos ko sa Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan niya nga kaayo sa akon?
sa pagpasalamat sa iya sa pagluwas niya sa akon.
Tumanon ko ang akon mga promisa sa iya sa presensya sang tanan niya nga katawhan.
Nasakitan ang Ginoo Ginoo kon may mapatay sa iya matutom nga katawhan.
Ginhilway mo ako sa pagkabihag.
kag magahalad ako sang halad nga bilang pagpasalamat sa imo.
Tumanon ko ang akon mga promisa sa imo sa presensya sang tanan mo nga katawhan
indi ako mag-untat sa pagpanawag sa iya samtang nagakabuhi ako.
Natublag gid ako kag nabalaka,
gani nagpanawag ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , “ Ginoo Ginoo , luwasa ako!”
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios maluluy-on, matarong, kag mabinalak-on.
Sang wala ako sing may mahimo ginluwas niya ako.
Dapat magpakabakod ako tungod kay maayo gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
kay ginluwas niya ako sa kamatayon, sa kasubo
Gani magakabuhi ako nga malapit sa Ginoo Ginoo diri sa kalibutan sang mga buhi.
Tanan kamo nga katawhan, padunggi ninyo siya!
pero ginpierdi ko sila paagi sa gahom sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpierdi ko sila paagi sa gahom sang Ginoo Ginoo .
pero ginbuligan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Siya ang nagluwas sa akon.
kag ipanugid ko ang mga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
wala niya pagtuguti nga mapatay ako.
Buksi ang mga puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo
Magsiling ang katawhan sang Israel, “Ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.”
Amo ini ang puwertahan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga sa diin ang mga matarong lang ang makasulod.
Ikaw ang nagluwas sa akon.
Ang bato nga ginsikway sang mga panday amo ang nangin pundasyon nga bato.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo ang naghimo sini kag makatilingala ini sa aton.
gani magkalipay kag magsinadya kita.
Palihog hatagi kami sang kadalag-an sa amon mga ginahimo sa amon mga ginahimo .
halin diri sa iya templo.
Magdala kita sang mga sanga sang kahoy sa pagselebrar sang piesta, kag maglibot kita sa halaran.
nagapasalamat ako kag nagadayaw sa imo.
Magsiling ang mga kaliwat ni Aaron, “Ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.”
Magsiling ang mga nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.”
kag ginsabat niya ako paagi sa paghilway sa akon.
Ano ang mahimo sang tawo sa akon?
kag makita ko mismo ang pagkapierdi sang akon mga kaaway.
Mas maayo nga magdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo kaysa magsalig sa tawo.
Mas maayo nga magdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo kaysa magsalig sa gamhanan nga mga tawo.
nga nagakabuhi suno sa kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
gani indi pag-itugot nga talikdan ko ang imo mga sugo.
kay ginatuman ko ang imo mga pagsulundan.
Ginalikawan ko ang tanan nga malain nga pagginawi para matuman ko ang imo pulong.
kay ikaw ang nagatudlo sa akon.
Daw ano katam-is sang imo mga promisa, mas matam-is pa ini sang sa honey.
gani ginakaugtan ko ang tanan nga malain nga pagginawi.
Ang imo pulong pareho sa suga nga nagahatag kasanag sa akon alagyan.
Tumanon ko gid ang akon ginsumpa nga magsunod sa imo matarong nga mga sugo.
padayuna ang akon kabuhi, Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa imo promisa.
kag tudlui ako sang imo mga sugo.
Bisan pa ara ako permi sa peligro sang kamatayon, wala ko ginakalimtan ang imo kasuguan.
Ginatipigan ko ang imo pulong sa akon tagipusuon para indi ako makasala sa imo.
pero wala ako magbiya sa imo mga pagsulundan.
kay amo ini ang akon kalipay.
Nagdesisyon ako nga tumanon ko gid ang imo mga pagsulundan hasta san-o.
pero ginahigugma ko ang imo kasuguan.
nagasalig ako sa imo pulong.
para matuman ko ang mga sugo sang akon Dios.
kag indi pag-itugot nga mapaslawan ako sa akon paglaom sa imo.
kag isentro ko permi ang akon hunahuna sa imo mga pagsulundan.
Sa pagkamatuod, ang ila pagpanunto wala sing pulos.
Tungod sini ginahigugma ko ang imo pagpanudlo.
Tudlui ako sang imo mga pagsulundan.
nahadlok gid ako sa imo paghukom.
gani indi ako pagpabay-i sa akon mga kaaway.
indi pag-itugot nga daog-daugon ako sang mga bugalon.
Nagapalangdulom na ang akon panulok sing hulat sa imo promisa nga luwason mo ako.
kag tudlui ako sang imo mga pagsulundan.
para maintiendihan ko ang imo mga pagpanudlo.
kay wala na nagasunod ang mga tawo sa imo kasuguan.
bisan pa sa pinakapuraw nga bulawan,
ginakaugtan ko ang tanan nga malain nga pagginawi.
gani ginasunod ko ini sa bug-os ko nga tagipusuon.
Ginasulit-sulit ko hambal ang tanan nga sugo nga imo ginhatag.
kag kaalam sa mga wala sing alam.
Puwerte gid ang akon handom sa imo mga sugo.
Talupangda ako kag kaluoyi, pareho sang imo ginahimo permi sa mga nagahigugma sa imo.
indi pag-itugot nga gamhan ako sang kalautan.
para matuman ko ang imo mga pagsulundan.
Puwerte gid ang akon hilibion tungod kay wala nagtuman ang mga tawo sa imo kasuguan.
Matarong ka, Ginoo Ginoo , kag husto ang imo mga sugo.
Matarong kag masaligan gid ang mga pagpanudlo nga ginhatag mo.
Puwerte gid ang akon kaakig kay ginasikway sang akon mga kaaway ang imo mga pulong.
labaw pa sa kalipay nga ginahatag sang manggad.
kag ini ginahigugma ko nga imo alagad.
Bisan kubos ako kag ginahikayan, wala ko ginakalimtan ang imo mga pagsulundan.
kag matuod ang imo kasuguan.
pero ang imo mga sugo naghatag sa akon sang kalipay.
Hatagi ako sang pag-intiendi sa imo mga pagpanudlo sa imo mga pagpanudlo para padayon ako nga magakabuhi.
sabta ako, kag pagatumanon ko ang imo mga pagsulundan.
luwasa ako, kag pagatumanon ko ang imo mga pagpanudlo.
Nagasalig ako sa imo promisa.
Nagapulaw ako sa bilog nga gab-i sa pagpamalandong sang imo mga promisa.
padayuna ang akon kabuhi suno sa imo nga paghukom.
kag ginahunahuna ko sing maayo ang imo mga pamaagi.
nga nagasikway sang imo kasuguan.
Pero malapit ka sa akon, Ginoo Ginoo ; kag masaligan
nga ang ining imo mga pagpanudlo ginhimo mo nga magpadayon hasta san-o.
kay wala ko ginkalimtan ang imo kasuguan.
padayuna ang akon kabuhi suno sa imo promisa.
kay wala sila nagatinguha sa pagtuman sang imo mga pagsulundan.
pero wala gid ako magbiya sa imo mga pagpanudlo.
kay wala nila ginatuman ang imo pulong.
Padayuna ang akon kabuhi suno sa imo gugma.
kag indi ko pagkalimtan ang imo pulong.
kag wala sing katapusan ang tanan mo nga matarong nga mga sugo.
pero ang akon tagipusuon nagatahod gid sa imo pulong.
Nagakalipay ako sa imo promisa pareho sa isa ka tawo nga nakakita sang dako nga manggad.
kag wala sing may makalaglag sa ila.
kag nagasunod ako sa imo mga sugo.
gani ginatuman ko gid ini.
gani ginatuman ko ang imo mga pagsulundan kag mga pagpanudlo.
Hatagi ako sang pag-intiendi suno sa imo promisa.
para padayon ako nga magkabuhi kag magtuman sang imo pulong.
Luwasa ako suno sa imo promisa.
kay gintudluan mo ako sang imo mga pagsulundan.
kay matarong ang tanan mo nga mga sugo.
kay ginpili ko ang pagtuman sang imo mga pagsulundan.
Ang imo kasuguan nagahatag sa akon sang kalipay.
kag kabay pa nga magbulig sa akon ang imo mga sugo.
kay wala ko ginkalimtan ang imo mga sugo.
para maintiendihan ko ang matahom nga mga kamatuoran sa imo kasuguan.
gani ipahayag sa akon ang imo mga sugo.
nga nagatuman sa iya sa ila bug-os nga tagipusuon.
Sa tanan nga tion nagahandom gid ako sa paghibalo sang imo mga sugo.
Ini sila nagatalikod sa imo mga sugo.
kay ginatuman ko ang imo mga pagpanudlo.
ako nga imo alagad magapamalandong sa imo mga pagsulundan.
amo ini ang akon manuglaygay.
Daw mapatay na ako, gani padayuna ang akon kabuhi suno sa imo promisa.
para mapamalandungan ko ang imo makatilingala nga mga binuhatan.
Daw malumos ako sa kasubo, gani pabaskuga ako suno sa imo promisa.
kag kaluoyi ako nga matuman ko ang imo kasuguan.
Wala sila nagahimo sang malain kundi nagasunod sila sa mga pamaagi sang Dios.
gusto ko gid nga magsunod sa imo mga sugo.
gani indi pag-itugot nga mahuy-an ako.
tungod kay ginadugangan mo ang akon pag-intiendi.
kag pagatumanon ko ini hasta san-o.
kag sundon ko ini kag tipigan sa bug-os ko nga tagipusuon.
kay sa sini may kalipay ako.
sang sa paghandom nga magmanggaranon.
Tumana ang imo promisa sa akon nga imo alagad, nga ginapromisa mo sa mga nagatahod sa imo.
kay ginakabig ko nga ginakabig ko nga maayo ang imo mga sugo.
para tumanon namon ini nga may katutom.
Tungod nga ikaw matarong, padayuna
Ginoo Ginoo , ipakita ang imo paghigugma kag pagluwas sa akon, suno sa imo promisa.
kay nagasalig ako sa imo mga pulong.
kay ang akon paglaom ara lamang sa imo mga sugo.
Permi ko tumanon ang imo kasuguan hasta san-o.
kay nagatinguha gid ako sa pagtuman sang imo nga pagsulundan.
Indi ako magkahuya sa pagsugid sang imo mga pagpanudlo sa atubangan sang mga hari.
Nagakalipay gid ako sa pagsunod sa imo mga sugo nga akon ginahigugma.
kag ginapamalandungan ko ang imo mga pagsulundan.
kay sa sina ginahatagan mo ako sang paglaom.
sa pagtuman sang imo mga pagsulundan.
Ang imo promisa nagapabuhi sa akon kag nagahatag sa akon sang kalipay sa akon mga pag-antos.
pero wala ako nagabiya sa imo kasuguan.
kay nagahatag ini sa akon sang kalipay.
Akig gid ako katama tungod sa mga malain, nga nagasikway sang imo kasuguan.
Nagakanta ako parte sa imo mga pagsulundan bisan diin ako mag-estar.
kon paano ko ini matuman.
Amo ini ang akon kalipay: ang pagsunod sa imo mga pagsulundan.
Nagapromisa ako sa pagtuman sang imo mga pulong.
Ginapangabay ko ikaw sa bug-os ko nga tagipusuon nga kaluoyan mo ako suno sa imo promisa.
kag nagdesisyon ako nga magsunod sa imo mga pagpanudlo.
Kon tumanon ko ang tanan mo nga mga sugo, indi ako mahuy-an.
Ginatuman ko gilayon ang imo mga sugo.
Bisan pa ginagapos ako sang mga malain, wala ko ginakalimtan ang imo kasuguan.
tungod sang imo matarong nga mga sugo.
Abyan ako sang tanan nga nagatahod sa imo kag nagatuman sang imo mga pagsulundan.
Ginoo Ginoo , magmaayo ka sa akon nga imo alagad, suno sa imo promisa.
kay nagasalig ako sa imo mga sugo.
pero subong ginatuman ko na ang imo pulong.
ginatuman ko gihapon ang imo mga pagsulundan sa bug-os ko nga tagipusuon.
samtang nagatuon ako sang imo matarong nga mga sugo.
pero ako ya nagakalipay sa pagsunod sini.
kay paagi sini nakatuon ako sang imo mga pagsulundan.
Para sa akon, ang kasuguan nga imo ginhatag mas bilidhon pa sang sa madamo gid nga manggad.
hatagi ako sang pag-intiendi para makatuon ako sang imo mga sugo.
kay nagasalig ako sa imo pulong.
Kag tungod nga matutom ka, gindisiplina mo ako.
Kabay pa nga lipayon mo ako sang imo gugma suno sa imo promisa sa akon nga imo alagad.
kay nagakalipay ako sa pagsunod sa imo kasuguan.
Kon sa akon, magapamalandong ako sa imo mga pagsulundan.
kag nakahibalo sang imo mga pagpanudlo.
Tumanon ko ang imo mga pagsulundan, gani indi gid ako pagpabay-i.
para indi ako mahuy-an.
pero nagasalig ako sa imo pulong.
Nagapamangkot ako, “San-o mo pa bala ako pabaskugon kag lipayon?”
wala ko ginakalimtan ang imo mga pagsulundan.
San-o mo pa bala silutan ang mga nagahingabot sa akon nga imo alagad?
ang mga bugalon nga wala nagasunod sa imo kasuguan.
Buligi ako, kay ginahingabot ako sang mga tawo bisan wala sing kabangdanan.
pero wala ko ginsikway ang imo mga pagsulundan.
tumanon ko ang pagpanudlo nga ginhatag mo.
mabakod ini pareho sa langit.
Ang iya himuon amo ang pagsunod sa imo pulong.
Ginpahamtang mo sing mabakod ang kalibutan, gani nagapabilin ini.
Kay ini sila nagaalagad sa imo.
kuntani napatay na ako tungod sang akon pag-antos.
kay paagi sini ginapadayon
Kay nagatinguha gid ako sa pagtuman sang imo mga pagsulundan.
pero pamalandungan ko ang imo mga pagpanudlo.
pero ang imo mga sugo wala.
Ginapamalandungan ko gid ini permi.
mas maalam ako sang sa akon mga kaaway.
kay ang imo pagpanudlo amo ang akon ginapamalandungan.
kag ginsabat niya ako.
Ginoo Ginoo , luwasa ako sa mga butigon kag mga dayaon.
Kamo nga mga dayaon, ano ayhan ang isilot sang Dios sa inyo?
Silutan niya kamo sang taliwis nga pana sang soldado kag nagadabadaba nga mga baga.
nga pareho kalain sa nga pareho kalain sa mga pumuluyo sang Meshec kag sang Kedar.
Dugay na ang akon pag-estar upod sa inyo nga indi gusto sang kalinong.
Gusto ko ang kalinong pero kon maghambal gani ako parte sina parte sina ang inyo gusto inaway.
diin bala nagahalin ang akon bulig?
Ang akon bulig nagahalin sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga naghimo sang kalangitan kag sang kalibutan.
Siya nga nagatipig sa imo, wala nagakatulog.
Pamati! Ang manugtipig sang Israel wala nagapatuyo-tuyo ukon nagakatulog.
ara siya sa imo tupad sa pagprotektar sa imo.
Ang init sang adlaw indi makahalit sa imo ukon ang siga sang bulan kon gab-i.
tipigan niya ang imo kabuhi.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo magatipig sa imo subong kag hasta san-o, bisan diin ka makadto.
Nalipay ako sang ginhambalan ako nga, “Makadto kita sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Kag subong, ari na kami nagatindog sa mga puwertahan sang Jerusalem.
Ang Jerusalem isa ka siyudad nga ginpatindog sing maayo kag mapag-on.
sa pagdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo suno sa iya gintudlo sa ila.
Diri sa Jerusalem nagahukom ang mga hari sang Israel nga kaliwat ni David.
“Kabay pa nga ang nagahigugma sa sini nga siyudad magmainuswagon.
sa sulod sang Jerusalem kag sa mabakod nga mga parte sini.”
“Kabay pa nga maayo lang ang kahimtangan sang Jerusalem.”
nagapangamuyo ako nga mag-uswag ang Jerusalem.
sa imo nga nagapungko sa trono dira sa langit.
kami nagahulat man nga buligan mo, Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, hasta nga kaluoyan mo kami.
Kaluoyi kami, Ginoo Ginoo , kay sobra na ang pag-insulto sa amon.
Sobra na ang pagyaguta sa amon sang mga tawo nga nagapatawhay-tawhay lang kag mga bugalon.
Magsabat kamo mga taga-Israel!
“Kon wala magdampig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton sang ginsalakay kita sang mga tawo,
ginpatay na kuntani nila kita sa ila puwerte nga kaakig sa aton.
nga pareho sa mapintas nga mga sapat nga pareho sa mapintas nga mga sapat .
Nakapalagyo kita pareho sa pispis nga nakabuhi sa siod nga naguba.
Ang aton bulig nagahalin sa Ginoo Ginoo nga naghimo sang kalangitan kag sang kalibutan.”
kundi nagapabilin hasta san-o.
ang Ginoo Ginoo nagaprotektar man sa iya katawhan subong kag hasta san-o.
kay basi maghimo man sing malain ang mga matarong.
Ginoo Ginoo , himua ang maayo sa mga tawo nga maayo, nga nagakabuhi sing husto.
Kabay pa nga maayo lang ang kahimtangan sang Israel!
Sang ginbalik sang Ginoo Ginoo ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang Zion,
“Naghimo ang Ginoo Ginoo sang gamhanan nga mga butang sa ila.”
kag puwerte gid ang aton kalipay.
pareho sa mamala nga mga suba nga natubigan liwat.
Kabay pa nga ang nagsab-og nga nagahibi magaani nga nagakalipay.
sa ulihi sa ulihi magapuli nga nagakalipay, nga nagadala sang mga inani.
wala sing pulos ang pagpatindog sang balay ukon ang pagbantay sang siyudad,
bisan pa nga nagakatulog sila.
Ang mga anak grasya kag regalo halin sa Ginoo Ginoo .
pareho sang mga pana sa kamot sang isa ka soldado.
kay mabuligan siya kon mag-atubangay sila sang iya mga kaaway sa hukmanan.
Bulahan kamo nga mga nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga nagakabuhi sa iya mga pamaagi.
mangin malipayon kamo kag mainuswagon.
mangin pareho sa linghod nga mga kahoy nga olibo.
Pareho sini ang pagpakamaayo sa mga tawo nga nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kabay pa nga makita ninyo nga nagauswag ini nga siyudad samtang nagakabuhi kamo.
Kabay pa nga maayo lang ang kahimtangan sang Israel.
halin sang pagsugod sang inyo nga nasyon.
Pero wala gid nila kami malaglag.
daw pareho ini sa inarado nga duta.
kay ginhilway niya kami sa pag-ulipon sa amon sang mga malain.”
Kabay pa nga magpalalagyo sa kahuya ang tanan nga nagadumot sa Zion.
Wala sing may nagatipon sa sini nga hilamon ukon nagadala sini nga nabugkos.
Ginabendisyunan namon kamo sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Sa puwerte nga kalisod nagapanawag ako sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo .
Pamatii ang akon pagpakitluoy sa imo.
sin-o bala ang makapabilin sa imo presensya?
Pero ginapatawad mo kami, gani ginatahod ka namon.
kag nagasalig ako sa imo pulong.
Nagahulat ako sa imo, Ginoo, labaw pa sa mga guwardya nga nagahulat sang kaagahon.
kay mahigugmaon siya kag handa permi nga magluwas.
Siya mismo ang magaluwas sa inyo sa tanan ninyo nga mga sala.
Wala ako nagahandom sang dalagko kag pinasahi nga mga butang nga indi ko masarangan.
nga wala na nagahandom nga magtiti nga wala na nagahandom nga magtiti sa iya iloy.
Mga taga-Israel, magsalig kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo subong kag hasta san-o.
Ginoo Ginoo , indi pagkalimti si David kag ang tanan nga kabudlayan nga ginbatas niya.
Tungod kay David nga imo alagad, indi pag-isikway ang imo pinili nga hari.
Siling mo Siling mo : “Ang isa sang imo mga kaliwat pabuslon ko sa imo bilang hari.
ang ila mga kaliwat magahari man hasta san-o.”
diri ako magapuyo
kag bisan ang iya mga pumuluyo nga mga imol busgon ko sang pagkaon.
kag ang iya matutom nga mga pumuluyo magakanta permi sa kalipay.
“Paharion ko sa Zion ang hari nga kaliwat ni David kag padayunon ko ang iya paggahom.
Pakahuy-an ko ang iya mga kaaway, pero pauswagon ko ang iya ginharian.”
Nagpromisa siya nga,
“Indi ako magpuli ukon maghigda
ang Gamhanan nga Dios ni Jacob.”
kag nakita namon ini sa latagon sang Jaar.
kag magsimba sa atubangan sang iya trono.”
upod sang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Kasugtanan nga simbolo sang imo gahom.
kag magkanta sa kalipay ang imo matutom nga katawhan.
Daw ano kaayo kag kanami tan-awon kon ang katawhan sang Dios nagapuyo nga may pag-isa.
kag nag-ilig sa iya burangos hasta sa kuwelyo sang iya bayo.
nga amo ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
tanan kamo nga nagaalagad sa iya templo kon gab-i.
kag dayawa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
nga amo ang naghimo sang kalangitan kag sang kalibutan.
Dayawa ang Ginoo Ginoo ! Dayawa ninyo siya, kamo nga iya mga alagad
kag ginpamatay niya ang gamhanan nga mga hari
kay Og nga hari sang Bashan, kag ang tanan nga hari sang Canaan.
Kag ginhatag niya ang ila duta sa iya katawhan nga mga Israelinhon para ila panag-iyahan.
Ginoo Ginoo , ang imo ngalan kag pagkabantog dumdumon hasta san-o.
kag kaluoyan mo sila.
hinimo man lang sang tawo halin sa pilak kag bulawan.
may mga mata, pero indi makakita,
kag wala ini nagaginhawa.
nga nagaalagad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios.
Magkanta kamo sang pagdayaw sa iya kay maayo ina nga himuon.
nga mangin iya espesyal nga katawhan.
kag labaw sa tanan nga dios.
sa duta, sa mga dagat kag sa mga kadadalman sini.
Ginapaguwa niya ang hangin halin sa ila talaguan.
kag pati ang mga kamagulangan sang ila mga sapat.
sa pagsilot sa hari sang Egypt
Ang iya gugma wala sing katapusan.
kag naghilibion sang madumduman namon ang Zion.
Ginsang-at na lang namon ang amon mga arpa sa mga sanga sang kahoy.
Siling nila, Siling nila, “Kantahi ninyo kami sang kanta parte sa Zion!”
sa duta sang mga nagbihag sa amon?
Kabay pa nga indi na maghulag ang akon tuo nga kamot kon kalimtan ko ang Jerusalem!
kag kabigon nga akon dako nga kalipay ang Jerusalem.
Nagsiling sila, “Gub-a ninyo ina sing bug-os.”
Bulahan ang mga tawo nga magalaglag sa inyo pareho sang inyo ginhimo sa amon.
Bulahan sila nga magakuha sang inyo magagmay nga mga bata kag magalampos sa ila sa mga bato.
Magakanta ako sang mga pagdayaw sa imo sa atubangan sang mga dios.
Kay ginpakita mo nga labaw ka kag ang imo pulong sa tanan nga butang.
ginpabakod mo ako paagi sa imo kusog.
kay mabatian nila ang imo pulong.
kay dako ang imo gahom.
bisan mataas ka nahibaluan mo ang tanan
Ginaluwas mo ako paagi sa imo gahom.
Indi pagpabay-i ang imo mga ginhimo.
Ginoo Ginoo , gin-usisa mo ako gani kilala mo ako.
didto ka gihapon sa pagtuytoy kag sa pagbulig sa akon.
ukon ang kasanag nga nagalibot sa akon nga mangin gab-i.
Kay ang kadulom kag ang kasanag pareho lang sa imo.
Ikaw ang nagporma sa akon sa tiyan sang akon iloy.
Makatilingala ang imo mga binuhatan, kag nahibaluan ko gid ina.
Nakita mo ang akon mga tul-an sang ginporma ako sing tago sa sulod sang tiyan sang akon iloy.
bisan wala pa ini magsugod.
puwerte ini kadamo.
Kon magbugtaw ako ang akon hunahuna ara gihapon sa imo.
Kabay pa nga magpalagyo sa akon ang mga manugpatay sang tawo.
Bisan ara ka sa malayo nahibaluan mo ang tanan ko nga ginahunahuna.
Sila nga imo mga kaaway nagamitlang sang imo ngalan sa wala sing pulos.
Ginakangil-aran ko ang mga nagakontra sa imo.
ginakabig ko sila nga akon mga kaaway.
Tilawi ako, para mahibaluan mo ang akon ginahunahuna.
kag tuytuyi ako sa dalan nga dapat nakon agyan hasta san-o.
Nahibaluan mo ang tanan ko nga ginahimo.
Ginoo Ginoo , bisan wala pa ako makahambal, nahibaluan mo na ang akon inughambal.
kag ginaprotektaran mo ako sang imo gahom.
indi ko gid ini matungkad.
Diin bala ako makakadto nga wala ikaw?
kon magkadto man ako sa lugar sang mga patay, didto man ikaw.
Kon magkadto man ako pa-east ukon mag-estar sa pinakamalayo nga lugar sa west,
Ginoo Ginoo , luwasa ako sa malain kag mapintas nga mga tawo.
kag ihulog sila sa mga buho, nga indi na sila makabangon pa.
Kabay pa nga mag-abot ang kahalitan sa mapintas nga mga tawo, nga magalaglag sa ila.
ginahatagan mo sang hustisya ang mga imol.
Sigurado gid nga dayawon ikaw sang mga matarong kag magakabuhi sila upod sa imo.
kag permi lang nila ginapaaway ang mga tawo.
ang ila mga pulong
nga nagaplano sa paglaglag sa akon.
naghumlad sila sang ila mga lambat para masiod nila ako sa akon alagyan.
Pamatii, Ginoo Ginoo , ang akon pagpakitluoy sa imo.
ginaprotektaran mo ako sa tion sang inaway.
kay basi kon magpabugal sila.
Kabay pa nga ang malain nga mga plano sang nagapalibot sa akon matabo mismo sa ila.
Pamatii ang akon pagpanawag sa imo.
samtang ako makalikaw sini.
bilang pangsirom nga halad.
Ginoo Ginoo , buligi ako nga indi ako makahambal sing malain.
Ilikaw ako sa pagpakigbahin sa ila mga punsyon.
Pero sa malain nga mga tawo permi ako nagapangamuyo kontra sa ila malain nga ginahimo.
magapati sila nga ang akon mga pulong matuod.
pareho sa mga bato nga nagguluwa sang pag-arado sa duta.”
gani indi pag-itugot nga mapatay ako.
Ilikaw ako sa mga siod nga ginbutang sang mga malain para sa akon.
Nagapangamuyo ako nga kaluoyan mo ako.
Ginasugid ko sa imo ang akon mga reklamo kag mga kalisod.
Sa akon alagyan may siod nga ginbutang ang akon mga kaaway para sa akon.
Wala sing may nagaprotektar kag nagakabalaka sa akon.
ikaw lang gid ang akon kinahanglan diri sa kalibutan.
kay makusog sila para sa akon.
tungod kay maayo ka sa akon.
Tungod nga matarong kag matutom ikaw, buligi ako.
sa kahimtangan nga wala sing katalagman.
Tungod nga matarong ka, luwasa ako sa kalisod.
kay ako imo alagad.
kay wala sing bisan isa nga matarong sa imo atubangan.
daw pareho ako sa tawo nga dugay na nga napatay.
Gani nadulaan ako sang paglaom kag napuno sang kahadlok ang akon tagipusuon.
ginapamalandungan ko ang tanan mo nga binuhatan.
nauhaw ako sa imo pareho sa mamala nga duta nga nauhaw sa tubig.
Indi ka magpanago sa akon, kay basi mapatay ako.
Ginahanas niya ako sa pagpakig-away.
Ikaw ang nagpadaog sa mga hari kag nagluwas kay David nga imo alagad halin sa kamatayon.
nga wala nagasugid sing matuod kag nagabutig bisan sa ila pagsumpa.
kag ang amon mga anak nga babayi mangin pareho sa matahom nga mga haligi sang palasyo.
Kabay pa nga magdamo sing linibo ang amon mga karnero sa latagon,
Kag kabay pa nga wala na sing paghinibi sa kasubo sa amon mga dalan.
Bulahan ang mga tawo nga ang ila Dios amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginapasakop niya sa akon ang mga nasyon.
Ahaw tawo man lang siya, ngaa ginahunahuna mo gid?
kag ang iya mga inadlaw pareho sa landong nga umalagi lang.
Tanduga ang mga bukid para mag-alaso.
Magpadala ka sang kilat nga daw sa pana para magpalalagyo ang akon mga kaaway kag maglalapta.
nga pareho sa mabaskog nga tubig.
Ini sila wala nagasugid sing matuod kag nagabutig bisan sa ila pagsumpa.
Kantahan ko ikaw, O Dios, sang bag-o nga kanta nga ginatukaran sang arpa.
dayawon ka sang imo matutom nga katawhan.
Ipanugid nila ang pagkagamhanan sang imo paghari kag ang imo gahom,
kag ang pagkagamhanan sang imo paghari.
kag mahigugmaon ka sa tanan mo nga ginhimo.
kag ginapabakod ang tanan nga maluya.
kag ginahatagan mo sila sang ila pagkaon sa tion nga kinahanglan nila.
Ginahatagan mo sila sing husto kag nagakabusog sila.
kag mahigugmaon ka sa tanan mo nga ginahimo.
Malapit ka, Ginoo Ginoo , sa tanan nga nagapanawag sa imo sing sinsero.
kag ginaluwas mo sila.
kag himuon ko ina hasta san-o.
pero ang tanan nga malain laglagon mo.
Ang tanan nga tinuga magdayaw sa imo hasta san-o.
Ang imo pagkagamhanan indi gid matungkad.
Ang kada henerasyon magasugid sa masunod nga henerasyon sang imo gamhanan nga mga binuhatan.
kag ang imo makatilingala nga mga binuhatan.
kag isugid ko man ang imo pagkagamhanan.
kag magakanta sila parte sa imo pagkamatarong.
mahigugmaon ka kag indi dali mangakig.
mabinalak-on ka sa tanan mo nga ginhimo.
Kantahan ko ang akon Dios sang mga pagdayaw samtang nagakabuhi ako.
kay indi sila makaluwas sa inyo.
kag sa sina nga adlaw ang ila mga plano nangin wala sing pulos.
nga ang iya pagsalig ara sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios,
Masaligan gid ang Ginoo Ginoo hasta san-o.
Ginahilway niya ang mga ginbihag,
ginahigugma niya ang mga matarong,
pero ginaguba niya ang mga pamaagi sang mga malain.
Maayo gid kag nagakabagay nga dayawon siya.
Ang iya kalipay indi sa makusog nga mga kabayo ukon sa madasig nga mga soldado,
kundi sa mga nagatahod sa iya, nga nagasalig sa iya nga gugma.
kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem.
kag ginapakamaayo niya kamo.
kag ginabusog niya kamo sang pinakamaayo nga trigo.
kag nagapati ini gilayon.
kag ginalapta niya ang mapino nga yelo
Wala sing may makaagwanta sang katugnaw sini.
ginpahangin niya kag nag-ilig ang tubig.
kag mga sugo sa mga taga-Israel nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
kag ginatipon niya ang mga Israelinhon nga nabihag.
ginabulong niya ang ila mga pilas.
kag ginhatagan niya ang kada isa sa ila sang ngalan.
ang iya kaalam wala sing limitasyon.
pero ginalaglag niya sing bug-os ang mga malain.
Magtukar kamo sang arpa para sa aton Dios.
kag ginapatubo ang mga hilamon sa mga bukid.
kag ang mga buto sang uwak kon magpangayo sila sang pagkaon.
Dayawa ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo , kamo nga ara sa kalangitan.
tanan nga sapat: anta ukon indi, mga sapat nga nagakamang, kag mga nagalupad.
mga opisyal, mga manugdumala, kag tanan nga katawhan sa kalibutan,
mga pamatan-on, mga tigulang kag mga bata.
Mas gamhanan siya sang sa tanan nga ara sa kalibutan kag kalangitan.
Dayawa ninyo siya, tanan kamo nga iya mga anghel, nga iya langitnon nga mga tinuga.
Dayawa ninyo siya, adlaw, bulan, kag mga bituon.
Dayawa ninyo siya, pinakamataas nga langit kag tubig sa ibabaw.
Kay sa iya pagmando, natuga sila tanan.
kag wala sing may makalapas sining mando niya.
dalagko nga mga sapat sa tubig, kag tanan nga kadadalman sang dagat.
snow, mga panganod, kag mabaskog nga hangin nga nagatuman sa iya sugo.
mga kahoy nga nagapamunga, kag tanan nga mga sedro,
Dayawa siya sa pagtililipon sang iya matutom nga katawhan.
Magsinadya ang katawhan sang Zion
kag magtukar sila sang tamborin kag mga arpa sa pagdayaw sa iya.
ginapadunggan niya sila nga mga kubos paagi sa pagpadaog sa ila.
magkanta sila sa kalipay bisan sa ila mga hiligdaan.
Magdayaw sila sing mabaskog sa Dios samtang nagauyat sila sang matalom nga mga espada,
sa pagpanimalos kag pagsilot sa mga katawhan sang mga nasyon,
sa pagkadena sang ila mga hari kag mga pangulo,
Dayawa ninyo siya sa langit, ang iya mabakod nga lugar.
Dayawa ninyo siya tungod sang iya indi matupungan nga pagkagamhanan.
Dayawa ninyo siya paagi sa mga arpa kag mga lira.
Dayawa ninyo siya paagi sa mga instrumento nga may mga kuwerdas kag mga plawta.
Dayawa ninyo siya paagi sa matunog nga mga cymbals.
Amo ini ang mga hulubaton ni Solomon, nga anak ni David kag hari sang Israel.
Anak, indi ka magpadala-dala sa mga temtasyon sang makasasala nga mga tawo
kon magsiling sila nga, “Dali, upod ka sa amon; mamangga kita sang mga inosente nga tawo kag patyon ta sila.
Buhi sila subong kag maayo ang lawas pero tudason ta sila; mangin pareho sila sa mga nagkaladto na sa lugar sang mga patay.
Makakuha kita sa ila sang malahalon nga mga pagkabutang, kag pun-on ta ang aton mga balay sang aton mga inagaw.
Sige na, upod sa amon, kay partidahon ta dayon ang aton mga inagaw.”
Anak, indi ka gid mag-upod sa ila; maglikaw ka sa ila.
Kay maabtik sila magpakasala kag magpatay sang tawo.
Wala sing pulos ang pagbutang sang siod kon ang pispis nga imo dalakpon nagatan-aw.
Nakahibalo ang pispis nga masiod siya, Nakahibalo ang pispis nga masiod siya, pero ining malain nga mga tawo wala nakahibalo nga sila mismo ang mabiktima sa ila nga pagpamangga sa iban. Nagahulat sila sa pagpatay pero sila mismo ang mapatay.
Amo ina ang dangatan sang mga tawo nga nagaangkon sang pagkabutang sa malain nga paagi. Mapatay sila sa sina nga buluhaton.
Paagi sa sini nga mga hulubaton, matun-an mo ang parte sa kaalam
Kamo nga mga buang-buang, hasta san-o pa bala kamo nga indi magkagusto sa kaalam?
ipahibalo ko sa inyo ang akon inughambal kontra kontra sa inyo:
Tungod nga wala kamo magsapak sang pagtawag ko sa inyo nga magpalapit kamo sa akon,
kag tungod nga ginbaliwala ninyo ang tanan ko nga mga laygay kag pagsabdong sa inyo,
Pangitaon ninyo ako, pero indi ninyo ako makita.
Kay indi kamo gusto tudluan kag wala ninyo ginpili ang pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Makapatadlong ini sa imo pamatasan para mangin maalamon ka, nga nagakabuhi sing husto, matarong, kag nagakabagay.
Ginabaliwala ninyo ang akon mga laygay kag ginapakalain ninyo ang akon pagsabdong sa inyo.
Gani pagaanihon ninyo ang bunga sang inyo mga ginahimo kag ginaplano nga malain.
kag ang pagpatawhay-tawhay sang mga buang-buang magalaglag sa ila.
Indi siya maano kag wala siya sing kahadlukan.”
Makahatag ini sang kaalam sa mga wala sing alam, kag makahatag ini sang ihibalo sa mga pamatan-on kon paano magdesisyon sing husto.
Paagi sa pagpamati sini, madugangan pa gid ang kaalam sang mga maalamon kag matuytuyan ang mga may tinun-an,
para maintiendihan nila ang kahulugan sang mga hulubaton, mga paanggid, kag mga paktakon
Kon ang isa ka tawo gusto nga magmaalamon dapat magtahod siya sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang tawo nga buang-buang
kay makapaayo ina sa imo pamatasan pareho sa korokorona nga mga bulak ukon kulintas nga makapaayo sa imo hitsura kag makahatag sa imo sang kadungganan kag makahatag sa imo sang kadungganan .
Anak, batuna kag tipigi sa imo tagipusuon ang akon mga ginatudlo kag ginasugo sa imo.
Kay mangin maalamon ka, kag makahatag ini sa imo sang kalipay.
Kon kahibalo ka magdesisyon sing husto, makaprotektar ini sa imo. Kon may pag-intiendi ka, makatipig ini sa imo
kag makapalikaw sa imo sa malain nga pagginawi kag sa mga tawo nga nagahambal sing sala.
Ini nga mga tawo nagbiya sa husto nga pagginawi kag nagasunod sa pagginawi sang kadulom.
Nagakalipay sila sa paghimo sang malain. Nasadyahan sila sa kalain sang ila ginahimo.
Indi husto ang ila pagginawi; indi tadlong ang ila ginalaktan.
Ang kaalam makapalikaw man sa imo sa malain nga babayi nga gusto magtentar sa imo paagi sa matam-is niya nga mga pulong.
Ini nga babayi nagbiya sa lalaki nga iya ginpamana sang bataon pa siya; ginkalimtan niya ang iya promisa sa Dios sang ginkasal siya.
Sa pagkamatuod, kon magkadto ka sa iya balay pareho lang nga nagapakadto ka sa kamatayon. Ang dalan pakadto sa iya balay nagapadulong sa lugar sang mga patay.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magkadto sa iya indi na makapuli; indi na niya matultulan pa ang dalan pakadto sa lugar sang mga buhi.
Pamatii ang parte sa kaalam kag pag-intiendi.
Gani sunda ang pagkabuhi sang maayo nga mga tawo; magkabuhi ka nga matarong.
Kay ang tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto kag wala sing kasawayan padayon nga magaestar diri sa aton aton duta.
Pero ang mga malain kag maluibon palayason. Panggabuton sila pareho sa mga hilamon pareho sa mga hilamon .
Tinguhai gid nga makaangkon ka sang pag-intiendi,
pareho nga daw nagapangita ka sang pilak ukon sang tinago nga manggad.
Kon himuon mo ini, mahibaluan mo kon ano ang pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag maintiendihan mo ang parte sa iya.
Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagahatag sang kaalam. Sa iya man nagahalin ang ihibalo kag pag-intiendi.
Ginaprotektaran niya kag ginatigan-an sang kadalag-an
Ginabantayan niya kag ginatipigan ang mga ginahimo sang mga matarong kag matutom sa iya.
Kon mamati ka sa akon, Kon mamati ka sa akon, mahibaluan mo kon ano ang maayo nga himuon: ang husto, matarong, kag nagakabagay.
Anak, indi gid pagkalimti ang ginatudlo ko sa imo; tipigi sa imo tagipusuon ang mga ginasugo ko sa imo,
Kon himuon mo ini, magasulubra ang mga patubas sa imo mga bodega kag ang duga sang ubas sa imo mga pulugaan.
Anak, indi pagpakalaina ang pagdisiplina sang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo sa imo .
Kay ginadisiplina sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya mga ginapalangga pareho sang ginahimo sang isa ka amay sa iya anak nga iya ginakalipay.
Bulahan ang tawo nga nakaangkon sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi.
Kay mas mapuslanon pa ini sang sa pilak kag bulawan,
kag mas malahalon pa sang sa mga alahas.
Makapalawig kag makapauswag ini sang imo kabuhi, kag makahatag man sa imo sang kadungganan.
Makabulig gid ini sa imo kabuhi kag makapaayo sang imo kahimtangan.
Bulahan ang tawo nga nagapabilin nga maalamon; ang kaalam makapaayo kag makapalawig sang iya kabuhi.
kay makapalawig ini kag makapauswag sang imo kabuhi.
Anak, tipigi gid ang imo kaalam kag ihibalo sa pagdesisyon sing husto. Indi pagpabay-i nga madula ini sa imo.
Kay makahatag ini sa imo sang malawig kag matahom nga kabuhi.
Kag magakabuhi ka nga luwas sa katalagman kag indi ka maano.
Makatulog ka nga mahamuok, nga wala sing may ginakahadlukan.
Gani indi ka dapat mahadlok kon gulpi lang nga mag-abot ang makahaladlok nga mga hitabo, ukon kon laglagon na ang mga malain,
kay makasalig ka nga bantayan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo ; ilikaw niya ikaw sa katalagman.
Buligi ang mga dapat buligan kon masarangan mo man lang.
Indi na pagpabuwasi ang pagbulig sa imo isigkatawo kon mabuligan mo man lang siya subong.
Indi ka magplano sing malain kontra sa imo isigkatawo nga nagasalig sa imo bilang iya tupad-balay.
Magpabilin ka nga maayo kag matutom; indi ina pagdulaa kundi tipigan mo gid sa imo tagipusuon.
Indi ka magpakigbais sa imo isigkatawo sa wala sing kabangdanan, labi na kon wala man lang siya sing may nahimo nga malain sa imo.
Indi ka magkahisa sa mapintas nga tawo ukon magsunod sa iya mga ginahimo.
Kay ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga balingag, pero nagasalig siya sa nagakabuhi sing husto.
Ginapakamalaot sang Ginoo Ginoo ang panimalay sang mga malain, pero ginapakamaayo niya ang panimalay sang mga matarong.
Ginayaguta niya ang nagapangyaguta, pero ginakaluoyan niya ang mapainubuson.
Ang mga maalamon padunggan, pero ang mga buang-buang pakahuy-an.
Kon himuon mo ini, maluyag sa imo ang Dios kag ang mga tawo, kag mangin maayo ang pagtulok nila sa imo.
Magsalig ka sa Ginoo Ginoo sa bug-os mo nga tagipusuon, kag indi ka magsalig sa imo kaugalingon nga kaalam.
Dumduma ang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan mo nga ginahimo, kag tuytuyan niya ikaw sa husto nga dalan.
Indi ka maghunahuna nga maalam ka na gid kundi magtahod ka sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag indi ka maghimo sang malain.
Kay makapaayo kag makapabaskog ina sa imo lawas.
Padunggi ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo mga pagkabutang, pareho halimbawa sa paghalad sa iya sang una nga parte sang tanan mo nga patubas.
Mga anak, pamatii ninyo sing maayo ang mga pagtadlong sang inyo amay sa inyo pamatasan, para may matun-an kamo.
Anak, pamatii kag batuna ang mga ginasiling ko sa imo, para magalawig ang imo kabuhi.
Gintudluan ko na ikaw sang kaalam, kon paano ka magkabuhi sing husto.
Gani kon sundon mo ini, Gani kon sundon mo ini, wala sing may makasablag sa imo pagkabuhi, kag indi ka maano.
Indi gid pagkalimti ang mga pagtadlong ko sa imo pamatasan; tipigi ini sa imo tagipusuon kay magakabuhi ka sa sini.
Indi pagsunda ang ginahimo sang mga malain.
Likawi gid ina kag magpadayon ka sa imo pagkabuhi nga matarong sa imo pagkabuhi nga matarong .
Kay indi sila makatulog kon indi sila makahimo sang malain ukon makapanglaglag sa iban.
Ang kalautan kag ang pagpamintas daw pagkaon kag ilimnon para sa ila.
Ang pagkabuhi sang mga matarong pareho sa pagbutlak sang adlaw nga nagasanag pa gid hasta mag-udto.
Pero ang pagkabuhi sang mga malain pareho sa kadulom, kag indi nila mahibaluan kon ano ang kabangdanan sang ila pagkalaglag.
Maayo ang akon ginatudlo, gani indi ninyo ini pag-ibaliwala.
Anak, pamatii sing maayo ang mga ginatudlo ko sa imo;
indi gid ini pagkalimti, kundi tipigi ini sa imo tagipusuon.
Kay nagahatag ini sang maayo nga lawas kag malawig nga malawig nga kabuhi sa mga nagabaton sini.
Bantayi sing maayo ang imo hunahuna, kay kon ano ang imo ginahunahuna amo man ang imo kabuhi.
Indi ka maghambal sing dinaya ukon binutig.
Isintro ang imo panulok sa maayo.
Hunahunaa gid sing maayo ang tanan mo nga pagahimuon para mangin maayo ang resulta sini.
Magkabuhi ka sing tadlong; likawi ang paghimo sang malain.
Sang bata pa gid ako sa poder sang akon amay, paborito
Gintudluan ako sang akon amay. Siling niya sa akon, “Hupti sa imo tagipusuon ang mga ginatudlo ko sa imo. Tumana ang mga sugo ko sa imo para padayon ka nga magakabuhi.
Tinguhai nga makaangkon ka sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi. Indi pagkalimti ang mga ginasiling ko sa imo, kag indi ka magbiya sa sini.
Indi pag-isikwaya ang kaalam, kundi hatagi ini sing importansya, kay magatipig ini sa imo.
Ang kaalam ukon ang pag-intiendi amo ang pinakaimportante sa tanan, gani tinguhaan mo gid nga maangkon mo ini bisan maubos ang tanan mo nga pagkabutang.
Pakamahala kag batuna ang kaalam, kay makahatag ini sa imo sang kadungganan.
Pareho ini sa korokorona nga mga bulak nga makapatahom sa imo.”
Anak, pamatii sing maayo ang akon mga pulong nga may kaalam,
Kag ang tanan ninyo nga manggad kag iban pa nga ginpangabudlayan kuhaon lang sang mga taga-iban nga lugar.
Magaugayong kamo kon nagahimumugto na kamo, nga hugos na gid ang bilog ninyo nga lawas.
Kag magasiling kamo, “Ano abi kay wala ko ginsapak ang mga pagtadlong sa akon pamatasan.
Wala ako mamati sa akon mga manunudlo.
Gani karon, ari ako sa bibi sang kamatayon sa atubangan sang komunidad.”
Dapat sa imo ka lang asawa maghulid Dapat sa imo ka lang asawa maghulid . Kon sa tubig pa, magkuha ka lang sang imo ilimnon sa imo kaugalingon nga bubon.
Kay basi kon magluib man ang imo asawa.
Dapat imo lang siya; indi siya dapat maghulid sa iban nga lalaki.
Magkalipay ka sa imo asawa, kag kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon siya sang Dios.
Matahom siya kag maanyag pareho sa usa, gani kabay pa nga mawili ka sa iya
para makahibalo ka magdesisyon sing husto kag maghambal nga may kaalam.
Anak, indi ka magpadala-dala sa malain nga babayi. Indi ka dapat magpakigrelasyon sa asawa sang iban.
Kay nakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan mo nga ginahimo; kag bisan diin ka magkadto nagatan-aw siya.
Ang malain nga mga ginahimo sang malain nga tawo pareho sa siod nga magasiod mismo sa iya.
Magatalang siya tungod sang iya kabuangan, kag mapatay siya tungod kay indi siya magpatadlong sang iya pamatasan.
Dumdumon mo nga ang pulong sang malain nga babayi matam-is pareho sa honey, kag manami pareho sa lana sang olibo.
Pero sa ulihi ang ibilin niya sa imo kapait kag kasakit.
Kon magsunod ka sa iya, dal-on niya ikaw sa lugar sang mga patay; ang dalan nga iya ginalaktan nagapakadto sa kamatayon.
Wala siya nagasapak sa dalan nga nagapakadto sa kabuhi. Indi tadlong ang iya ginalaktan kag wala siya makatalupangod sini.
Gani mga anak, pamatii ninyo ako kag tumana.
Palayo kamo sa babayi nga pareho sina. Indi kamo magpalapit sa iya balay.
Kay kon himuon ninyo ina, madula ang inyo dungog kag angkunon lang ini sang iban, kag mapatay kamo sa kamot sang mga tawo nga mapintas.
Anak, kon nagpromisa ka nga ikaw ang mabayad sang utang sang iban,
Pahuway-huway kag piyong-piyong ka pa gamay
kag magaabot gulpi sa inyo ang kinawad-on nga pareho sa armado nga tulisan.
Ang wala sing pulos kag malain nga mga tawo nagapanugidsugid sing kabutigan.
Nagapangilay pa sila kag nagasinyas paagi sa ila kamot kag tiil sa pagdaya sa iban sa pagdaya sa iban .
Sa ila nga pagkadayaon, permi sila nagaplano sa paghimo sang malain, kag nagapaumpisa sila sang gamo.
Gani sa hinali lang laglagon sila, kag indi na gid sila matabangan.
May anom ukon pito pa gani ka klase sang tawo nga ginakaugtan kag ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo :
ang mga nagapamatay sang tawo,
ang mga maabtik maghimo sing malain,
kag ang mga nagapaaway sang iya kapareho.
nasiod ka sa imo promisa,
Anak, sunda ang mga ginasugo kag ginatudlo sang imo ginikanan sa imo.
Itanom ini sa imo hunahuna para indi mo gid malimtan.
Ini magatuytoy, magatipig, kag magapadumdom sa imo pagkabuhi, bisan ano man ang imo ginahimo.
Kay ining ila mga ginasugo kag ginatudlo pareho sa suga nga magapasanag sa imo. Kag ang pagsaway nila sa imo, sa pagtadlong sang imo pamatasan, makapaayo kag makapalawig sang imo kabuhi.
Makapahilayo man ini sa imo sa malain nga babayi nga makagalanyat kon maghambal.
Indi ka magpatintar
Ang pagpakighilawas sa babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas puwede mabayaran sa bili sang tinapay, pero ang pagpakighilawas sa asawa sang iban bayaran mo sang imo mismo kabuhi.
Kon ipalapit mo ang kalayo sa imo dughan masunog ang imo bayo.
Kon maglakat ka sa baga mapaso ang imo tiil.
Gani kon magpakighilawas ka sa asawa sang iban magaantos ka.
kag may obligasyon ka sa iban. Pero amo ini ang himua nga mahilway ka sa imo obligasyon sa iya: Kadtui siya kag magpakitluoy ka nga hilwayon ka niya sa imo obligasyon.
Masami Masami wala ginapakalain ang kawatan
Pero kon madakpan siya, pabayaron siya sing pito ka pilo sang iya ginkawat, bisan maubos pa ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
Ang tawo nga nagapakigrelasyon sa asawa sang iban wala sing pag-intiendi. Ginaguba lang niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Pagasakiton siya, kag mahuy-an siya hasta san-o.
Kay ang bana nga nagapangimon puwerte mangakig, kag magabalos siya nga wala sing luoy-luoy.
Indi siya magbaton sang bayad, bisan ano pa ini ka dako.
Indi pagtulugi ukon pagpahuwayi
hasta nga mahilway ka, pareho sa pispis ukon usa nga nakapalagyo sa mangangayam.
Kamo nga mga matamad, tan-awa ninyo kag tun-i kon paano magkabuhi ang mga subay, para mangin maalamon kamo.
Bisan wala sing pangulo ukon manugdumala nga nagasugo sa ila,
nagatipon sila sang ila pagkaon kon tig-ilinit kag kon tig-alani, para may pagkaon sila kon tig-ululan kon tig-ululan .
Kamo nga mga matamad magsagi na lang bala kamo katulog? San-o pa bala kamo magbugtaw?
Anak, tipigi sa imo tagipusuon ang akon mga ginatudlo kag ginasugo sa imo.
Dayon ginsugata siya sang babayi nga ang iya bayo pareho sa bayo sang babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas. Nakaplano na siya nga daan kon ano ang iya himuon sa sadto nga lalaki.
Ini nga babayi palawakal kag wala sing huya. Wala siya nagapahimuyong sa iya balay.
Nagaistambay siya sa higad sang mga dalan ukon sa mga kanto, kag kon kaisa sa mga plasa.
Pagkakita niya sa lalaki, ginhakos niya siya kag ginhalukan. Kag nagsiling siya nga wala sing huya-huya,
“Gintuman ko subong ang akon promisa nga maghalad, kag may mga karne didto sa balay halin sa sapat nga ginhalad ko.
Gani ginpangita ko ikaw, kag maayo kay nakita ko ikaw.
Nahapinan ko na ang akon hiligdaan sang dekolor nga tela nga halin pa sa Egypt.
Ginbutangan ko ini sang mga pahamot nga mira, aloe, kag sinamon.
Gani dali, maghulid kita; magpaayaw-ayaw kita sa kalipay hasta mag-aga,
kay wala diri ang akon bana. Naglakat siya sa malayo.
Tumana ang mga ginasugo ko sa imo, para magalawig ang imo kabuhi. Tipigi sing maayo ang mga ginatudlo ko sa imo pareho sang pagtipig mo sang imo mata.
Madamo nga kuwarta ang iya gindala kag mga duha pa ka semana antes siya magabalik.”
Gani nadala niya ang lalaki paagi sa iya matam-is kag makagalanyat nga mga pulong.
Sa gilayon nagsunod ang lalaki sa iya pareho sa baka nga ginaguyod sa ilihawan ukon pareho sa usa
nga sa diin patyon siya sa pana. Pareho man siya sa isa ka pispis nga nagadali-dali pakadto sa siod nga wala kahibalo nga kamatayon gali ang iya padulungan.
Gani, mga anak, pamatii ninyo sing maayo ang akon mga ginasiling.
Indi kamo magpadala-dala sa sini nga klase sang babayi; indi kamo magpatalang sa iya.
Madamo na nga mga lalaki ang nalaglag tungod sa iya.
Kon magkadto kamo sa iya balay, pareho lang nga nagapadulong kamo sa lugar sang mga patay.
Kabiga ang kaalam subong imo utod nga babayi kag ang pag-intiendi subong imo suod nga abyan.
Kay makapahilayo ini sa imo sa malain nga babayi nga makagalanyat kon maghambal.
Isa ka adlaw, nagpamintana ako sa balay,
kag nakita ko ang mga pamatan-on nga mga lalaki nga wala sing may nahibaluan sa kabuhi. Ang isa sa ila wala sing pag-intiendi.
Nagalakat siya sa dalan pakadto sa kanto nga sa diin ara ang balay sang isa ka malain nga babayi.
Sirom na sadto kag nagadulom na.
Ang kaalam kag pag-intiendi pareho sa tawo nga nagawali.
Palabiha ang kaalam kag ang pagtadlong ko sa imo pamatasan sang sa pilak kag bulawan.
kag wala gid sing bisan ano nga butang nga imo ginahandom nga makatupong sini.
kag nahibaluan ko magdesisyon sing husto.
ang malain nga pagginawi, kag ang pagbinutig.
Maayo ako maglaygay kag may husto nga kaalam. May pag-intiendi ako kag gahom.
kag makahimo ang mga pangulo sang matarong nga mga kasuguan.
kag mga opisyal—ang tanan nga nagadumala sing matarong.
ang mga nagapangita sa akon makakita sa akon.
Makahatag ako sang manggad, dungog, kauswagan kag kadalag-an nga nagapadayon.
Ang makuha sa akon mas malahalon pa sang sa puro gid nga bulawan ukon pilak.
Nagatindog siya sa mataas nga mga lugar sa kilid sang dalan, sa mga ginsang-an sang mga dalan,
Ginasunod ko ang matarong kag husto.
pun-on ko ang ginataguan nila sang manggad.
Sang una pa nga daan, kaupod
sang pagbutang niya sang daw daw tinabuan sang langit kag sang duta,
sang pagpatubod niya sang mga tuburan sa kadadalman,
kag sang pagbutang niya sang mga pundasyon sang kalibutan.
sa mga puwertahan sang siyudad, kag sa mga alagyan. Kag nagawali siya sing mabaskog,
Ako ang iya kalipayan adlaw-adlaw, kag malipayon ako permi sa iya presensya.
Nagakalipay ako sa kalibutan nga iya gintuga kag sa mga katawhan.
kay bulahan ang mga nagasunod sa akon mga ginasiling.
kag indi gid ninyo ini pagkalimti.
Bulahan ang tawo nga permi nagabantay kag nagahulat sa pagpamati sa akon.
kag pakamaayuhon siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang tanan nga akig sa akon naluyag sang kamatayon.”
“Tanan kamo nga katawhan, nagapakighambal ako sa inyo.
Kamo nga mga buang-buang, maghangop kamo.
Pamati kamo sa akon ginahambal, kay mapuslanon ini kag husto.
Matuod gid ang akon ginahambal kag ginakangil-aran ko ang maghambal sing malain.
Matarong ang tanan ko nga ginahambal kag wala ako nagahambal sang binutig ukon dinaya.
Maathag ini tanan kag wala sing sala sa mga tawo nga may pag-intiendi.
Ang kaalam pareho sa isa ka tawo nga nagpatindog sang dako kag matahom nga balay.
Kon gusto mo nga magmaalamon, dapat magtahod ka sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kon ginakilala mo ang Balaan nga Dios nga Dios , may pag-intiendi ka.
Paagi sa kaalam, magalawig ang imo kabuhi.
Kon maalamon ka, makahatag ini sa imo sang kaayuhan, pero kon ginahikayan mo ang kaalam, ginapaantos mo lang ang imo kaugalingon.
Ang kabuangan pareho sa isa ka babayi nga magahod, wala sing alam, kag wala sing may nahibaluan.
Nagapungko siya sa puwertahan sang iya balay ukon sa mataas nga mga lugar sang siyudad,
kag nagapanawag sa mga nagaalagi, nga nagapakadto sa ila mga trabaho.
Siling niya, Siling niya, “Dali kamo diri, kamo nga mga wala sing alam.” Kag siling pa niya sa mga wala sing pag-intiendi,
“Mas manami ang tubig nga kinawat kag mas manamit ang pagkaon kon kaunon sa tago.”
Pero wala kahibalo ini nga mga tawo nga ang mga nagakadto sa iya nagakapatay. Ang mga nakakadto na sa iya ara na subong sa lugar sang mga patay.
Nagpapunsyon siya. Ginpreparar niya ang mga pagkaon kag mga ilimnon.
Dayon ginsugo niya ang iya mga suluguon nga babayi sa pagkadto sa mataas nga mga lugar sang siyudad para ipahibalo ini:
“Kamo nga mga wala sing alam kag pag-intiendi, imbitado kamo sa punsyon.
Kadto kamo kag magkaon sang pagkaon kag mag-inom sang ilimnon nga akon ginpreparar.
Dulaa na ninyo ang inyo pagkaignorante para padayon kamo nga magakabuhi. Magkabuhi kamo nga may pag-intiendi.”
Kon sawayon mo ang tawo nga nagapangyaguta, insultuhon ka niya. Kon sabdungon mo ang malain nga tawo, sakiton ka niya.
Indi pagsawaya ang tawo nga nagapangyaguta kay kainitan ka niya. Sawaya ang maalamon nga tawo kag higugmaon ka niya.
Kon tudluan mo ang maalamon, madugangan pa gid ang iya kaalam. Kon tudluan mo ang matarong nga tawo, madugangan pa gid ang iya natun-an.
pero ang anak nga buang-buang nagahatag sang kasubo sa ila.
kag ang tawo nga nagahambal sang kabuangan malaglag.
Ang ginahambal sang matarong nga tawo makapaayo sa kabuhi sang iban,
Ang kaugot makapaumpisa sang gamo, pero ang gugma makapatawad sang tanan nga sala.
nga mangin kabangdanan nga nga mangin kabangdanan nga silutan siya.
nga makapalaglag mismo sa ila sa indi madugay.
pero ang kaimulon sang imol makalaglag sa iya.
pero ang balos sa malain nga tawo amo ang silot.
pero ang tawo nga wala nagapamati magatalang.
Butigon ang tawo nga nagatago sang iya kaakig, kag buang-buang ang mga nagapanglibak.
Maalamon ang tawo nga makahibalo magpugong sang iya baba.
makaluwas ini sa imo sa kamatayon.
pero ang hunahuna sang malain nga tawo wala sing pulos.
luwas sa mga buang-buang nga magakalamatay tungod kay wala sila sing pag-intiendi.
kag indi ini madugangan paagi sa tudo nga pagpangabudlay.
pero ang kalipayan sang tawo nga may pag-intiendi amo ang pagkabuhi nga mainalamon.
ang ginahandom sang matarong nga tawo mabaton niya.
malaglag ang malain nga tawo, pero ang matarong nga tawo magapabilin nga mabakod.
ang matamad nga tawo makapaugtas sa nagasugo sa iya.
pero ang malain nga tawo magakabuhi sing malip-ot.
pero ang paglaom sang mga malain wala sing katumanan.
pero ang pagsupak sini sang mga malain makapalaglag sa ila.
nga matuman ang ila malain nga mga malain nga mga handom.
Ang mga matarong indi pagpahalinon sa aton aton duta, pero ang mga malain pahalinon.
pero ang mga ginahambal sang dayaon nga tawo makapalaglag sa iya.
pero ang malain nga tawo, ang iya lang nahibaluan nga ihambal amo ang sala.
Ang pagkatamad makapaimol sa tawo, pero ang pagkapisan makapamanggaranon sa iya.
Ang nagatipon sang pagkaon kon tig-alani maalamon nga tawo,
Ginapakamaayo ang matarong nga tawo; ang ginahambal sang malain nga tawo makahalit.
pero ang malain nga tawo kalimtan.
Ang tawo nga nagahambal sing kabuangan malaglag.
pero ang tawo nga nagakabuhi sing indi husto mahibaluan ang iya ginahimo.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga nagapangdaya sa pagkilo, pero ginakalipay niya ang mga wala nagapangdaya.
Nagahinugyaw sa kalipay ang mga pumuluyo sang isa ka siyudad kon nagauswag ang mga matarong kag amo man kon nagakalamatay ang mga malain.
Nagauswag ang siyudad paagi sa pagbendisyon sang mga matarong, pero nagakalaglag ini paagi sa pagpakalain sang mga malain.
Ang tawo nga wala sing pag-intiendi nagayaguta sa iya isigkatawo, pero ang tawo nga may pag-intiendi wala nagayaguta.
Ang palakutsokutso nagapanugid sang sekreto, pero ang masaligan nga tawo makatago sang sekreto.
Malaglag ang isa ka nasyon kon wala ini sing mga manuglaygay, pero kon may madamo ini nga mga manuglaygay, may kabakod ini.
Delikado kon magpromisa ka nga magbayad sang utang sang iban. Gani kon indi mo gusto magkaproblema indi ina paghimua.
Ang mabuot nga babayi nagaani sang pagpadungog, pero ang mapintas nga tawo hasta lang sa pag-angkon sang manggad.
Kon maayo ka sa iban, makapaayo ini sa imo, pero kon mapintas ka, makahalit ini sa imo.
Ang malain nga tawo indi makabaton sang matuod nga balos, pero ang nagahimo sang matarong makabaton sang matuod nga balos.
Ang tawo nga nagahimo sang matarong padayon nga magakabuhi, pero ang nagahimo sang malain mapatay.
Ang nagapabugal mahuy-an, pero ang nagapaubos mangin maalamon.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga tawo nga tiko ang ila panghunahuna, pero ginakalipay niya ang mga tawo nga ang ila pagkabuhi wala sing kasawayan.
Sigurado gid nga pagasilutan ang mga malain, pero ang mga matarong ya indi.
Ang kaguwapa sang babayi nga indi maalamon pareho lang sang bulawan nga singsing sa sungad sang baboy.
Ang mga ginahandom sang mga matarong makapaayo, pero ang mga ginahandom sang mga malain makapaakig.
May mga tawo nga mahinatagon pero nagadugang pa gid ang ila manggad; may ara man nga mga dalok pero nagaimol pa gani.
Ang mahinatagon nga tawo magauswag. Ang tawo nga nagabulig sa iban pagabuligan man.
Ginapakamalaot sang mga tawo ang nagatago sang iya baligya para ibaligya ini kon magtaas na ang presyo para ibaligya ini kon magtaas na ang presyo , pero ginadayaw sang mga tawo ang wala nagatago.
Ang tawo nga nagahandom sang maayo pakitaan sang kaayo, pero ang tawo nga nagapangita sing gamo makita niya ini.
Mapaslawan ang tawo nga nagasalig sa manggad, pero ang matarong magauswag pareho sa nagalambo
Ang mga buang-buang nga nagadala sang gamo sa ila panimalay wala gid sing may mapanubli sa ulihi. Mangin ulipon lang sila sang mga maalamon.
Ang tawo nga matarong makahibalo kon ano ang iya himuon tungod nga husto ang iya nga pagkabuhi, pero ang maluibon nga tawo malaglag tungod nga indi husto ang iya nga pagkabuhi.
Ang mga binuhatan sang matarong nga tawo makabulig sa iban nga mag-ayo kag maglawig ang ila kabuhi.
Kon ang mga matarong sa kalibutan nagabaton sang balos sa ila mga ginahimo, labi na gid nga balusan ang mga malain kag mga makasasala.
Ang manggad indi makabulig kon silutan na sang Dios ang tawo sing kamatayon, pero ang matarong nga pagkabuhi makaluwas sa iya sa kamatayon.
Ang matarong nga pagkabuhi sang tawo nga wala sing kasawayan makapahapos sang iya pagpangabuhi, pero ang malain nga pagkabuhi sang malain nga tawo amo ang makapalaglag sa iya.
Ang matarong nga pagkabuhi sang tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto makaluwas sa iya, pero ang malain nga mga handom sang maluibon nga tawo makahalit sa iya mismo.
Kon mapatay ang mga malain, madula ang ila paglaom; ang ila mga ginahandom mangin wala sing pulos.
Ginaluwas sang Dios sa kalisod ang mga matarong pero ang mga malain ya wala.
Nagakaluwas ang mga matarong paagi sa ila ila kaalam.
Ang tawo nga gusto magpatadlong sang iya pamatasan gusto magmaalamon, pero ang tawo nga indi gusto sawayon balingag.
Ang matarong nga tawo nagaatipan sing maayo sa iya mga sapat, pero ang malain nga tawo mapintas kag wala sing kaluoy sa iya mga sapat.
Ang mapisan nga mangunguma may bugana nga pagkaon. Ang nagausik sang iya tiyempo sa wala sing pulos nga mga buluhaton wala sing husto nga pag-intiendi.
Ang gusto lang permi himuon sang mga malain amo ang kalainan, gani indi mabakod ang ila kahimtangan, gani indi mabakod ang ila kahimtangan, pero ang mga matarong iya mabakod pareho sa kahoy nga madalom ang iya gamot.
Ang malain nga ginahambal sang malain nga tawo amo mismo ang nagahatag sa iya sang gamo, pero ang matarong nga tawo nagalikaw sa gamo.
Pagabalusan kita sang maayo nga mga butang suno sa aton ginapanghambal kag ginapanghimo.
Ang buang-buang nga tawo nagahunahuna nga husto siya permi, pero ang maalamon nga tawo nagapamati sang laygay.
Ginapakita gilayon sang buang-buang nga tawo ang iya kaakig kon insultuhon siya kon insultuhon siya , pero ang maalamon nga tawo wala nagasapak kon insultuhon siya.
Ang masaligan nga saksi nagasugid sing matuod, pero ang indi masaligan nagabutig.
Ang mga pulong nga wala ginhunahuna sing maayo antes ihambal makasakit pareho sa espada, pero ang mga pulong nga ginhunahuna sing maayo antes ihambal makapaayo.
Ang mga pulong nga matuod nagapadayon hasta san-o, pero ang mga pulong nga binutig indi magdugay.
Ginakaluoyan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang maayo nga tawo, pero ginasilutan niya ang nagapadihot sing malain sing malain .
Pagpangdaya ang ara sa tagipusuon sang tawo nga nagaplano sang malain, pero kalipay ang ara sa tagipusuon sang tagipusuon sang tawo nga nagaplano sang maayo.
Wala sing may malain nga matabo
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga butigon, pero ginakalipay niya ang mga indi butigon.
Ang maalamon nga tawo wala nagapahambog sang iya nahibaluan, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo ginapakita gid niya ang iya pagkabuang-buang.
Ang mapisan nga tawo makaangkon sang mataas nga posisyon, pero ang matamad ya makaangkon sang manubo nga posisyon.
Ang pagpalibog makakuha sang kalipay sang tawo; ang maayo nga mga pulong makalipay sa iya.
Ang matarong nga tawo makatuytoy sa iya abyan, pero ang malain nga tawo makapatalang.
Ang matamad nga tawo indi gid makalambot sang iya ginahandom, pero ang mapisan nga tawo nagamanggaranon.
Kon magkabuhi ka nga matarong, padayon ka nga magakabuhi, kag maluwas ka sa kamatayon.
Ang nagahimo sang kalautan wala gid sing kalig-unan, pero ang matarong nga tawo may kalig-unan pareho sa kahoy nga madalom ang gamot.
Ang maayo nga asawa bugal kag kalipay sang iya bana, pero ang makahuluya nga asawa pareho sa balatian nga nagaut-ot sa mga tul-an sang iya bana.
Ang ginahunahuna sang matarong nga tawo husto; ang ginalaygay sang malain nga tawo puro puro pangdaya.
Makapatay ang mga pulong sang mga malain,
Pagalaglagon ang mga malain kag madula sila, pero ang mga matarong kag ang ila mga kaliwat magapadayon sa gihapon.
Ginapadunggan ang maalamon nga tawo, pero ginahikayan ang tawo nga tiko ang panghunahuna.
Mas maayo pa ang tawo nga simple lang, nga makasarang magsagod sang kabulig, sang sa tawo nga nagapasin-o-sin-o nga wala man lang gali sang kalan-on.
Ang maalamon nga anak nagapamati kon ginatadlong sang iya amay ang iya pamatasan, pero ang nagayaguta nga anak wala nagapamati kon ginasaway.
Sa sobra nga bugal, may mga tawo nga indi magpamati sang laygay, kag may mga tawo nga indi magpamati sang laygay, kag ini nagapaumpisa sing gamo. Kon gusto nila nga magmaalamon dapat magpamati sila sang laygay.
Ang manggad nga nakuha sa malain nga paagi madali lang madula, pero ang manggad nga ginpangabudlayan nagadugang pa gid.
Ang handom sang tawo nga wala matuman nagapaluya sa iya, pero ang iya handom nga natuman nagapabaskog kag nagapalipay sang iya kabuhi.
Ang tawo nga nagasikway sa mga ginatudlo kag ginasugo sa iya magaantos, pero ang tawo nga nagatuman sini hatagan sang balos.
Ang ginatudlo sang mga maalamon makapaayo kag makapalawig sang imo kabuhi,
Ginatahod ang tawo nga may maayo nga panghunahuna. Ang maluibon nga tawo nagapadulong sa kalaglagan.
Ang tawo nga nakahibalo magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi nagahunahuna anay antes niya himuon ang isa ka butang, pero ang buang-buang iya wala nagahunahuna, gani iya wala nagahunahuna, gani ginapakita gid niya ang iya pagkabuang-buang.
Ang malain nga mensahero nagapagamo sa mga tawo, pero ang masaligan nga mensahero nagapaayo sang ila relasyon.
Ang tawo nga indi magpatadlong sang iya pamatasan magaimol kag mahuy-an, pero ang nagapatadlong sang iya pamatasan padunggan.
Daw ano kanami ang mabatyagan sang tawo kon matuman ang iya ginahandom; amo gani nga ang mga buang-buang indi man mag-untat sa paghimo sang kalautan.
Ang tawo nga maayo ang iya mga ginahambal balusan sing maayo nga mga butang, pero ang maluibon nga tawo balusan sing pagpamintas.
Kon mag-upod ka sa mga maalamon, mangin maalamon ka man, pero kon mag-upod ka sa mga buang-buang, magaantos ka.
Magaabot ang kalaglagan sa mga makasasala bisan diin man sila magkadto, pero ang mga matarong ya balusan sang maayo nga mga butang.
Ang manggad sang maayo nga tawo panublion sang iya mga kaapuhan, pero ang manggad sang makasasala panublion sang mga matarong.
Bisan makapatubas sing bugana ang duta sang mga imol, indi sila makapulos sini tungod sa indi matarong nga ginahimo sang iban.
Wala mo ginahigugma ang imo bata kon wala mo siya ginadisiplina. Kon ginahigugma mo siya, ginatadlong mo ang iya pamatasan.
Ang mga matarong magakaon nga busog gid, pero ang mga malain gutumon.
Ang nagabantay sa iya ginahambal nagahalong sang iya kabuhi, pero ang nagapataka lang kahambal ginalaglag niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Kon matamad ang isa ka tawo, bisan ano pa ang iya ginahandom, indi gid niya ini maangkon, pero kon mapisan siya, maangkon niya ang sobra pa sa iya ginahandom.
Ang matarong nga tawo indi gusto sang binutig, pero ang malain nga tawo nagahimo sang makahuluya nga mga butang.
Ang tawo nga wala sing kasawayan indi maano tungod sang iya matarong nga pagkabuhi, pero ang makasasala nga tawo malaglag tungod sang iya kalautan.
May mga tawo nga nagapakuno-kuno nga manggaranon, pero imol gali. Kag may mga tawo man nga nagapakuno-kuno nga imol, pero manggaranon gali.
Ang manggaranon nagabayad para magawad ang iya kabuhi sa mga nagapahog sa iya sa mga nagapahog sa iya , pero ang imol, wala sing may nagapahog sa iya.
Ang kabuhi sang matarong nga tawo pareho sa suga nga nagasiga gid sing masanag, pero ang kabuhi sang malain nga tawo pareho sa suga nga napatay.
Ang maalamon nga asawa nagapabakod sang iya panimalay, pero ang buang-buang iya nagaguba sang iya panimalay.
Ikaw lang ang nakahibalo kon ano ka gid kamalipayon ukon kamasinulub-on.
Pagalaglagon ang panimalay sang mga malain, pero pauswagon ang panimalay sang mga nagakabuhi sing husto.
Mahimo nga nagahunahuna ka nga ara ka sa husto nga dalan, pero gali ang padulungan sini amo ang kamatayon.
Puwede mo matago ang imo kasubo sa imo nga pagkadlaw, pero kon tapos ka na kadlaw ang kasubo ara man gihapon.
Ang tawo pagabalusan sang nagakabagay gid sa iya nga mga ginhimo, maayo man ukon malain.
Ang tawo nga wala sing alam nagapati sang bisan ano; ang tawo nga nakahibalo magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi nagabantay gid sang iya mga tikang.
Ang maalamon nga tawo nagahalong sang iya kaugalingon kag nagalikaw sa gamo, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo wala nagahalong kundi nagapadasodaso.
Ang tawo nga dali lang mangakig nagahimo sang kabuangan. Ang tawo nga nagapadihot sing malain sing malain ginakaugtan.
Makita ang kabuangan sa tawo nga wala sing alam, pero makita ang kaalam sa tawo nga nakahibalo magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi.
Magasaludo kag magapakitluoy ang mga malain sa mga matarong.
Ang tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo , pero ang wala nagakabuhi sing husto nagainsulto sa iya.
Wala kaayo sing may nagapakig-abyan sa mga imol, bisan ang ila mga kasilingan, pero ang mga manggaranon ya madamo sing mga abyan.
Makasasala ang tawo nga nagainsulto sa iya isigkatawo nga imol nga imol , pero bulahan ang tawo nga maayo sa imol.
Makasala ka lang kon magplano ka sing malain sa imo isigkatawo, pero kon magplano ka sing maayo, may mga tawo nga magahigugma kag magaunong sa imo.
Ang pagtrabaho sing tudo may pulos, pero ang pagsagi wakal magapaimol lang sa tawo.
Ang balos sa mga maalamon amo ang ila manggad, pero ang balos sa pero ang balos sa mga buang-buang sa ila nga kabuangan amo ang dugang nga dugang nga kabuangan.
Ang saksi nga nagasugid sang matuod makaluwas sa kabuhi sang tawo. Traidor ang saksi nga nagabutig.
Ang pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo nagahatag sang sigurado nga kabakod kag proteksyon sa tawo kag sa iya mga anak.
Ang pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo makapaayo kag makapalawig sang imo kabuhi,
Ang pagkagamhanan sang hari nagadepende sa kadamuon sang iya katawhan; kon wala ang iya katawhan malaglag ang hari.
Ang mapinasensyahon nga tawo maalamon gid, pero ang tawo nga dali mangakig nagapakita sang iya pagkabuang-buang.
Ang mga ginahambal sang buang-buang nga tawo makahalit sa iya, pero ang mga ginahambal sang maalamon nga tawo makatipig sa iya.
Ang malinong nga panghunahuna makapaayo sa lawas, pero ang kahisa
Ang nagadaogdaog sa mga imol nagainsulto sa Dios nga naghimo sa ila, pero ang nagakaluoy sa mga imol nagapadungog sa Dios.
Ginalaglag sang Dios sang Dios ang mga malain tungod sang ila malain nga mga binuhatan, pero ginaprotektaran niya ang mga matarong tungod sang ila pagkadiosnon.
Ang kaalam ara sa hunahuna sang tawo nga may pag-intiendi, pero ang mga buang-buang wala sing
Magauswag ang isa ka nasyon kon ang mga pumuluyo sini magkabuhi sing matarong, pero kon magpakasala sila, mahuy-an ang ila nasyon.
Nagakalipay ang hari sa maalamon nga suluguon, pero ginakaugtan niya ang suluguon nga nagapakahuya sa iya.
Kon wala ka sing sapat nga inug-arado wala ka sing anihon, pero kon may sapat ka, kag makusog pa, madamo ang imo anihon.
Ang masaligan nga saksi wala nagabutig, pero ang indi masaligan puro kabutigan ang iya ginahambal.
Ang tawo nga nagapangyaguta indi gid makaangkon sang kaalam bisan ano pa niya katinguha, pero ang tawo nga may pag-intiendi dali lang makatuon.
Likawi ang mga buang-buang kay wala ka sing may matun-an nga maayo sa ila.
Ang kaalam sang tawo nga nakahibalo magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi amo ang nagahatag sa iya sang ihibalo kon ano ang iya himuon, pero ang kabuangan sang buang-buang nga tawo nagapatalang sa iya.
Daw sa wala lang sa mga buang-buang kon makasala sila, pero sa mga matarong nga tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto, gusto nila nga batunon sila sang Dios.
Ang mahinay nga sabat makapahaganhagan sang kaakig, pero ang matigdas nga sabat makapaibwal sang kaakig.
Ang pagtadlong sa pamatasan ginakabig nga malain sang
Kon nahibaluan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang nagakalatabo sa lugar sang mga patay, mas labi na gid nga nahibaluan niya ang ara sa tagipusuon sang tawo.
Ang tawo nga nagapangyaguta indi gusto sawayon; indi siya magpalaygay sa mga maalamon.
Kon malipayon ang tawo, nagayuhom-yuhom siya, pero kon nagakasubo siya, masinulub-on ang iya guya.
Ang tawo nga may pag-intiendi gusto gid nga magtuon, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo gusto pa gid sang kabuangan.
Mabudlay permi ang kabuhi sang mga imol, pero kon magkontento lang sila mangin malipayon gid sila permi.
Mas maayo pa ang imol nga nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo sang sa manggaranon nga puno sang kagamo ang iya kabuhi.
Mas maayo pa nga magsud-an lang sang utan nga may paghigugmaanay sang sa magsud-an sang karne nga may pagdinumtanay.
Ang pagkamainiton sang ulo nagapaumpisa sang inaway, pero ang pagkamapinasensyahon nagapauntat sang inaway.
Kon matamad ka, mabudlayan ka gid sa imo kabuhi, pero kon mapisan ka, matawhay ang imo kabuhi.
Ang mga ginahambal sang maalamon nga tawo makahatag sing kaalam, pero ang mga ginahambal sang buang-buang nga tawo puro kabuangan.
Ang maalamon nga anak nagahatag sang kalipay sa iya ginikanan. Buang-buang ang anak nga nagapakalain sa iya ginikanan.
Ang tawo nga wala sing pag-intiendi nagakalipay sa kabuangan, pero ang tawo nga may pag-intiendi nagakabuhi nga matarong.
Kon indi ka magpangayo sang laygay parte sa imo mga plano, indi ka magmadinalag-on, pero kon magpangayo ka sang madamo nga laygay, magmadinalag-on ang imo mga plano.
Nagakalipay ang tawo kon makahatag siya sang nagakabagay nga sabat. Daw ano pa gid kanami kon makasabat siya sa husto nga tion.
Ginasunod sang maalamon nga tawo ang dalan nga nagapadulong sa kabuhi para malikawan niya ang kamatayon.
Gub-on sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga balay sang mga bugalon,
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga ginahunahuna sang mga malain, pero ginakalipay niya ang mga ginahunahuna
Ang tawo nga nagaangkon sang manggad sa malain nga paagi nagadala sang kalisod sa iya panimalay. Ang tawo nga wala nagabaton sang lagay padayon nga magakabuhi.
Ang matarong nga tawo nagahunahuna anay antes siya maghambal, pero ang malain nga tawo nagapataka lang kahambal sing malain.
Malayo ang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga malain, pero malapit siya malapit siya sa mga matarong kay kay ginapamatian niya ang ila pangamuyo.
Makita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan, bisan sa diin nga lugar. Ginatan-aw niya ang mga ginahimo sang mga malain kag sang mga matarong.
Makahatag kalipay ang manayanaya
Ang nagapamati sa pagsabdong nga makapaayo sang kabuhi mangin maalamon.
Ginapakalain sang tawo ang iya kaugalingon kon wala niya ginasapak ang pagsaway sa iya sa pagtadlong sa iya pamatasan, pero kon magpamati siya, makaangkon siya sang pag-intiendi.
Ang pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo makatudlo sa tawo nga magmaalamon, kag ang pagpaubos makahatag sa iya sang dungog.
Ang malulo nga mga pulong makapaayo sa kabuhi sang tawo,
Ang buang-buang nga tawo wala nagasapak kon ginatadlong sang iya amay ang iya pamatasan, pero ang maalamon iya nagasapak.
Ginapalapnag sang mga maalamon ang kaalam; indi ini mahimo sang mga buang-buang.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga halad sang mga malain, pero nalipay siya sa mga pangamuyo sang mga matarong.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tawo nga ang iya pagginawi malain, pero ginahigugma niya ang tawo nga nagatinguha sa paghimo sang matarong.
Nagaplano ang tawo, pero ang Ginoo Ginoo ang nagabuot kon matuman ina nga plano ukon indi.
Kon maghukom ang hari nga ginatuytuyan sang Dios, husto permi ang iya paghukom.
Indi luyag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magpangdaya kita sa aton negosyo.
Ginakangil-aran sang mga hari ang paghimo sang malain, kay ang ila pagdumala makapadayon lamang kon maghimo sila sing matarong.
Nalipay ang mga hari sa mga tawo nga wala nagabutig; palangga nila ang mga tawo nga nagasugid sing matuod.
Kon mangakig ang hari mahimo nga may patyon siya, gani ang maalamon nga tawo nagatinguha gid nga indi mangakig ang hari.
Kon nalipay ang hari sa isa ka tawo, indi niya siya pagpatyon; pakitaan niya siya sing kaayo nga pareho sa ulan sa tion sang tigtulubo sang mga tanom.
Mas labing maayo ang pag-angkon sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi sang sa pag-angkon sang bulawan kag pilak.
Ang tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto nagalikaw sa malain, kag ang nagabantay sang iya kaugalingon layo sa katalagman.
Ang pagpabugal kag pagkamatinaas-taason sang tawo makalaglag sa iya.
Mas maayo pa nga magkabuhi nga mapainubuson kaupod sa mga imol sang sa magpartidahay sang mga inagaw kaupod sa mga bugalon.
Mahimo nga nagahunahuna kita nga husto na gid ang tanan ta nga ginahimo, pero ang Ginoo Ginoo ang makahukom kon ano gid ang aton motibo.
Ang tawo nga nagapamati kon tudluan magauswag. Bulahan ang tawo nga nagasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang maalamon nga tawo ginakilala nga may husto nga pag-intiendi, kag kon manami siya maghambal makatuon ang iban sa iya.
Kon may kaalam ka, makapaayo kag makapalawig ina sa imo kabuhi,
Ang maalamon nga tawo nagabantay gid sang iya ginahambal, gani makatuon ang iban sa iya.
Ang matam-is nga mga pulong pareho sa honey; makapalipay kag makapabaskog ini sa kabuhi sang tawo.
Ang kagutom nagatulod sa tawo nga mag-obra.
Ang malain nga tawo nagaplano sing malain, kag ang iya mga ginahambal makahalit nga daw sa kalayo nga makapaso.
Ang manuglibak nga tawo nagapaumpisa sang inaway kag nagaguba sang pag-abyanay.
Ginaganyat sang mapintas nga tawo ang iya isigkatawo nga maghimo sang malain.
Itugyan sa Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga ginaplano mo nga himuon, kag mangin madinalag-on ka.
Mag-andam kamo sa mga tawo nga nagayuhom-yuhom kag nagapulupangilay kay basi may malain sila nga plano.
Ang katigulangon isa ka kadungganan
Mas maayo pa ang tawo nga mapinasensyahon sang sa tawo nga gamhanan. Mas maayo pa ang tawo nga makakontrolar sang iya kaugalingon sang sa tawo nga makakontrolar sang isa ka siyudad.
Nagagabot-gabot ang mga tawo para mahibaluan nila kon ano ang ila himuon para mahibaluan nila kon ano ang ila himuon , pero ang Ginoo Ginoo ang nagabuot sa resulta sini.
Ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga may katuyuan,
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga bugalon, kag sigurado gid nga pagasilutan sila.
Kon ginahigugma ta ang Ginoo Ginoo nga may katutom, patawaron niya ang aton mga sala. Kon ginatahod ta siya, makalikaw kita sa kalautan.
Kon nalipay ang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton pagginawi, nagahimo siya sang paagi nga ang aton mga kaaway magpakig-abyan sa aton.
Mas maayo pa ang gamay nga manggad nga ginpangabudlayan sing husto sang sa madamo nga manggad nga ginkuha sa malain nga paagi.
Nagaplano ang tawo, pero ang Ginoo Ginoo ang nagapatigayon sa sina nga plano.
Mas maayo pa nga magkaon sang tinapay lang nga may kalinong sa sulod sang balay sang sa magpunsyon nga may ilinaway.
Ang maalamon nga tawo makatuon sa isa lang ka pagsaway, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo indi gid makatuon bisan kapila pa siya hanuton.
Ang malain nga tawo gusto lang permi magpangita sang gamo, gani padal-an siya sang mapintas nga tawo nga magsilot sa iya.
Mas delikado kon masugat-an mo ang buang-buang nga tawo nga nagabinuang sang sa masugat-an mo ang masugat-an mo ang bear nga nadulaan sang mga bata.
Kon malain ka sa mga maayo sa imo, permi lang may malain nga magaabot sa imo panimalay.
Ang nagaumpisa pa lang nga binaisay pareho sa lusbot sa tangke sang tubig. Tapnaa ina sa wala pa magdako.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tawo nga nagasentensya nga silutan ang wala sing sala ukon nagasentensya nga hilwayon ang may sala.
Wala sing pulos ang paggasto sa pagpaeskwela sa buang-buang nga tawo kay wala man siya sing gana magtuon.
Ang isa ka abyan nagahigugma sa imo sa tanan nga tion, kag ang katuyuan nga may paryente ka amo nga para may magbulig sa imo sa tion sang kalisod.
Wala sing pag-intiendi ang tawo nga nagapromisa nga magbayad sang utang sang iban.
Ang tawo nga luyag sang sala luyag sang gamo, kag ang bugalon nga tawo nagapangita lang sang iya kalaglagan.
Ang maalamon nga suluguon magagahom sa makahuluya nga anak sang iya amo, kag hatagan siya sang palanublion kaupod sa iban pa nga mga anak sang iya amo.
Indi gid magmauswagon ang tawo nga tiko ang iya panghunahuna, kag ang butigon nga tawo makaangkon sang kalaglagan.
Kasubo kag kasakit ang mabatyagan sang isa ka ginikanan sa iya buang-buang nga anak.
Kon malipayon ka, makapaayo ini sa imo lawas, pero kon masinulub-on ka, makapalain ini sa imo.
Ang malain nga tawo nagabaton sang lagay para indi mahatag ang hustisya.
Ang tawo nga may pag-intiendi nagahunahuna permi kon paano pa gid siya magmaalamon, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo wala kahibalo kon ano ang iya himuon.
Nagahatag sang kasubo kag kasakit ang buang-buang nga anak sa iya ginikanan.
Indi maayo nga silutan ang inosente nga tawo ukon ang dungganon nga tawo nga nagahimo sing husto.
Ang tawo nga maalamon kag may pag-intiendi indi palawakal kag indi dasodaso.
Bisan ang buang-buang masal-an nga maalamon kag may pag-intiendi kon maghipos siya.
Ginatilawan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang aton tagipusuon pareho sa bulawan kag pilak nga ginatilawan sa kalayo kon bala puro ukon indi.
Ang malain nga tawo gusto magpamati sa kapareho niya nga malain,
Ang nagayaguta sa imol nagainsulto sa Dios nga Dios nga naghimo sa iya. Pagasilutan ang tawo nga nagakalipay sa malain nga natabo sa iban.
Bugal sang mga tigulang ang ila mga apo, subong nga bugal man sang mga anak ang ila mga ginikanan.
Wala nagakabagay nga maghambal ang buang-buang sing maayo nga mga pulong, kag mas labi na gid nga wala nagakabagay nga magbinutig ang isa ka pangulo.
Nagapati ang iban nga ang lagay pareho sa madyik nga sarang makahimo sang bisan ano.
Kon patawaron mo ang imo abyan nga nakasala sa imo, magapabilin ang inyo pag-abyanay, pero kon liwat-liwaton mo kahambal ang iya sala, maguba ang inyo pag-abyanay.
Ang tawo nga gusto lang permi mag-isahanon nagahunahuna lang sang iya kaugalingon, kag ginakontra niya ang husto nga ginaisip sang iban.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sa mabakod nga tore, kag sa iya nagadangop ang mga matarong para indi sila maano.
Nagahunahuna ang mga manggaranon nga ang ila manggad makaprotektar sa ila pareho sa mataas nga mga pader nga nagapalibot sa siyudad.
Ang pagpabugal sang tawo makalaglag sa iya, pero ang pagpaubos makapadungog sa iya.
Balingag kag makahuluya ang tawo nga nagasabat nga wala anay nagapamati.
Ang determinasyon sang tawo nga mabuhi makapabakod sa iya kon nagamasakit siya, pero kon madula ini wala na sing may makabulig pa sa iya.
Ang tawo nga maalamon kag may pag-intiendi nagatinguha pa gid nga madugangan ang iya kaalam.
Madali ka nga makapakigkita sa isa ka dungganon nga tawo kon may dala ka nga regalo para sa iya.
Ang una nga magpamatuod sa korte daw amo na ang husto, hasta nga ang iya kontra naman ang mag-usisa sa iya.
Ang paggabot-gabot makapauntat sang binaisay, kag makahusay sang kaso sang duha ka gamhanan nga tawo.
Subong nga mabudlay gub-on ang mga trangka sang puwertahan sang palasyo, mabudlay man untaton ang pag-inaway sang duha ka tawo.
Ang buang-buang nga tawo wala gid sing handom nga makatuon; ang iya lang gusto amo ang pagpahayag sang iya kaugalingon nga opinyon.
Pagaanihon mo ang bunga sang imo mga ginahambal.
Ang imo mga ginahambal makaluwas sang kabuhi ukon makapatay. Gani kon palahambal ka, magbantay ka kay pagaanihon mo ang bunga sang imo mga ginahambal.
Kon nakapangasawa ka, nakabaton ka sing maayo nga butang, kag nagapakita ina nga maayo ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.
Nagapakitluoy ang imol, pero nagasabat sing matigdas ang manggaranon.
May pag-abyanay nga wala nagadugay, pero may pag-abyanay man nga mas malapit pa sang sa mag-ulutod.
Ang paghimo sang malain kag makahuluya nga butang makahatag sang kahuy-anan.
Ang pulong sang maalamon nga tawo makahatag sang kaalam sa iban; pareho ini sa nagailig nga tubig nga halin sa madalom nga tuburan.
Indi maayo ang pag-apin sa nakasala kag ang indi paghatag sang hustisya sa wala sing sala.
Ang mga ginahambal sang buang-buang nga tawo makapaumpisa sang inaway kag makahatag sa iya sang kasakitan.
Ang mga ginahambal sang buang-buang nga tawo makahalit sa iya mismo.
Ang kutsokutso daw pareho sa pagkaon nga namit usapon kag tunlon.
Ang matamad nga tawo pareho lang kalain sa tawo nga gusto magpanglaglag.
Mas maayo ang imol nga nagakabuhi sing matarong sang sa buang-buang nga butigon.
Indi bagay sa buang-buang nga tawo nga magkabuhi nga manggaranon, kag mas labi na gid nga indi bagay sa ulipon nga maggahom sa mga manugdumala.
Kon mapinasensyahon ka, nagapakita lang nga maalamon ka. Kag kon nagapatawad ka sa nakasala sa imo, makahatag ini sang kadungganan sa imo.
Ang kaakig sang hari pareho sa ngurob sang leon, pero ang iya kaayo pareho sa tun-og nga nagahatag sang tubig sa mga tanom.
Ang buang-buang nga anak makadala sang kalaglagan sa iya amay. Ang asawa nga permi lang nagabais sa iya bana makaulugot makaulugot pareho sa nagatinulo nga atop.
Mapanubli sa ginikanan ang balay kag ang iban pa nga pagkabutang, pero ang Ginoo Ginoo lang ang makahatag sang maalamon nga asawa.
Kon matamad ka kag sagi lang katulog, magutman ka.
Ang tawo nga nagatuman sa mga sugo sang Dios sang Dios padayon nga magakabuhi, pero ang wala nagatuman mapatay.
Kon maghatag ka sa mga imol, pareho lang nga nagapahulam ka sa Ginoo Ginoo , kay magabayad ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo.
Disiplinaha ang imo mga bata samtang may panahon pa. Kon wala mo sila ginadisiplina, ginaguba mo ang ila kabuhi.
Pabay-i nga manabat sa iya ginahimo ang tawo nga dali mangakig, kay kon buligan mo siya, liwat-liwaton lang niya ang iya ginahimo.
Indi maayo nga mapisan ka nga wala ka sing may nahibaluan. Indi man maayo nga magpadasodaso ka kay dali ka makahimo sing sala.
Pamatii ang mga laygay sa imo kag batuna ang mga pagtadlong sa imo pamatasan para sa ulihi mangin maalamon ka.
Madamo kita sang mga plano, pero ang kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang matuman.
Ang gusto ta sa tawo, maayo siya.
Tahura ang Ginoo Ginoo kag magakabuhi ka sing malawig, kontento, kag malayo sa katalagman.
May mga tawo nga tama gid katamad nga bisan gani magkaon natamaran pa.
Dapat silutan ang mga nagapangyaguta para ang pareho nila nga mga wala sing alam makatuon nga magmaalamon. Ang maalamon nga tawo nagamaalamon pa gid kon ginasaway siya.
Makahuluya kag talamayon ang anak nga nagapamintas sa iya amay kag nagatabog sa iya iloy.
Anak, kon indi ka magpamati sa mga pagtadlong sa imo pamatasan, ginasikway mo ang mga panudlo nga nagahatag sang kaalam.
Ang butigon nga saksi nagabaliwala sa hustisya, kag ang malain nga tawo nanamian gid nga maghimo sang kalautan.
Sigurado gid nga pagasilutan ang mga buang-buang nga nagapangyaguta.
May mga tawo nga ginahalitan nila ang ila kaugalingon tungod sang ila kabuangan, kag ang Ginoo Ginoo pa ang ila ginabasol.
Ang manggaranon madamo sing abyan, pero ang imol ginabayaan sang iya mga abyan.
Ang butigon nga saksi pagasilutan, kag ang bisan sin-o nga nagabutig indi makaluwas sa silot sa silot .
Madamo ang nagapakig-abyan sa mga kilala nga mga tawo para ayuhan sila, kag ang tanan nagapakig-abyan sa mga mahinatagon.
Kon imol ka, wala ka ginasapak sang imo mga paryente, kag mas labi na gid sang imo mga abyan. Kon ginakinahanglan mo sila, indi mo sila makita.
Ang tawo nga nagatinguha nga magmaalamon nagakabalaka sa iya kaugalingon, kag ini nga tawo magauswag.
Ang butigon nga saksi pagasilutan, kag ang bisan sin-o nga nagabutig malaglag.
Ang sobra nga pag-inom sang makahulubog nga mga ilimnon nagapamaoy sa tawo. Ang tawo nga nagapahubog indi maalamon.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga nagapangdaya sa pagkilo ukon pagtakos.
Ang mga binuhatan sang isa ka pamatan-on nagapakita sang iya matuod nga batasan, kon bala matarong siya ukon indi.
Ginhatagan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mata para makakita kag sang dulunggan para makabati.
Kon magsagi ka lang katulog, pagagutumon ka, pero kon magbangon ka kag magtrabaho, magadamo ang imo kalan-on.
Ginahikayan sang manugbakal ang ginabaligya para makaayo siya. Pero kon mabakal na niya, wala na niya ginahikayan, kundi wala na niya ginahikayan, kundi ginapabugal pa gani niya.
Madamo ang bulawan kag ang malahalon nga mga bato, pero diutay lang ang mga tawo nga nagahambal nga may kaalam.
Kon nagpromisa ang isa ka tawo nga siya ang mabayad sa imo sang utang sang tawo nga indi niya kilala, siguraduha nga makakuha ka sa iya sang garantiya, bisan bayo niya, para masiguro mo nga mabayad siya.
Nanamitan ang tawo sa pagkaon nga nakuha niya sa pagpangdaya, pero sa ulihi mangin pareho ini sa balas sa iya baba.
Magpangayo ka sang laygay sa imo nga pagplano ukon antes ka magkadto sa inaway.
Ang palakutsokutso nagapanugid sang sekreto, gani likawi ang tawo nga pareho sina.
Kon mangakig ang hari pareho siya sa nagangurob nga leon. Gani kon paakigon mo siya, patyon ka gid niya.
Ang anak nga nagapakamalaot sa iya ginikanan mapatay pareho sa suga nga napatay sa kadulom.
Ang palanublion nga gindali-dali mo kuha sa indi pa husto nga tion indi makahatag sa imo sang kaayuhan sa ulihi.
Indi ka magbalos. Magsalig ka lang sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag buligan ka niya.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga nagapangdaya sa pagkilo. Indi ina maayo nga himuon.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagabuot sang aton kabuhi, gani indi ta mahibaluan kon ano ang aton palaabuton.
Delikado kon magpadasodaso ka sa pagpromisa nga ihalad mo ang isa ka butang sa Ginoo Ginoo . Dapat hunahunaon mo anay antes ka magpromisa.
Kon maghukom Kon maghukom ang maalamon nga hari, ginasiguro gid niya nga mahibaluan ang naghimo sang malain, kag dayon ginasilutan niya.
Ang aton konsensya
Kon maayo kag matutom ang isa ka hari, indi siya maano kag magapadayon ang iya paghari.
Bugal sang mga pamatan-on ang ila kusog, kag dungog sang mga tigulang ang ila katigulangon.
Ginapadunggan ang tawo nga nagalikaw sa gamo; ang buang-buang lang ang naluyag sang gamo.
Kon kaisa maayo nga masilutan kita para magbag-o kita.
Ang matamad mag-arado sa tion sang tigtalanom wala gid sing may makuha sa tion sang tig-alani.
Mahimo nga ang panghunahuna sang isa ka tawo pareho sa tubig nga madalom, pero kon maalamon ka, matungkad mo ini.
Madamo ang nagasiling nga maayo sila, pero may ara bala sa ila nga masaligan?
Ang matarong nga tawo nagakabuhi nga wala sing kasawayan. Bulahan ang iya mga anak nga nagasunod sa iya pamatasan.
Kon maghukom ang hari sang kaso, ginasiguro gid niya nga mahibaluan ang naghimo sang malain.
Wala sing may makasiling nga matinlo na gid ang iya tagipusuon, nga wala na gid siya sing sala.
Ang hunahuna sang mga hari pareho sa suba nga ginakontrolar sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pag-ilig sini. Ginakontrolar niya ini suno sa iya gusto.
Ang mga malain gusto lang gid permi maghimo sang malain; wala sila sing kaluoy sa ila isigkatawo.
Kon silutan ang mga nagapangyaguta, ang pareho nila nga mga wala sing alam makatuon nga magmaalamon. Ang maalamon nga tawo nagamaalamon pa gid kon ginatudluan siya.
Nahibaluan sang matarong nga Dios ang ginahimo sang panimalay sang mga malain, kag pagasilutan niya sila.
Kon wala mo ginasapak ang mga imol kon magpangayo sila sang bulig, indi ka man pagsapakon kon magpangayo ka sang bulig.
Kon regaluhan mo sa sekreto ang tawo nga akig sa imo, madula ang iya kaakig.
Kon mangibabaw ang hustisya, nagakalipay ang mga matarong, pero ginakulbaan ang mga malain.
Kamatayon ang dangatan sang tawo nga nagalikaw sa kaalam.
Ang tawo nga ang gusto niya lang amo ang pagpangalipay, indi gid magmanggaranon kundi magaimol pa gani.
Ginasilutan ang mga malain kag maluibon para maluwas ang mga matarong.
Mas maayo pa nga mag-estar sa desierto sang sa mag-estar sa balay sa balay upod sa palaaway kag mainiton nga asawa.
Mahimo nga nagahunahuna kita nga husto na gid ang tanan ta nga ginahimo, pero ang Ginoo Ginoo lang ang makahukom kon ano gid ang aton motibo.
Ang maalamon nga tawo nagatigana gid para sa palaabuton, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo nagapagusto lang kagasto.
Ang tawo nga nagatinguha gid nga magkabuhi nga maayo kag matarong magakabuhi sing malawig kag madinalag-on, kag padunggan siya sang mga tawo.
Ang kumander nga maayo sa taktika makaagaw sang siyudad nga may madamo nga soldado, kag makaguba sang mga pader sini nga ginasaligan sang sadto nga mga soldado.
Ang tawo nga nagahalong sa iya mga ginahambal makalikaw sa gamo.
Ang bugalon kag matinaas-taason nga tawo makilala mo kay nagapangyaguta siya, kag puwerte siya magpahambog.
Kon madamo ang imo ginahandom pero matamad ka mag-obra, makalaglag ina sa imo.
Ang matamad nga tawo permi lang nagahandom nga makabaton, pero ang matarong nga tawo nagahatag nga wala sing hawid-hawid.
Ginakangil-aran sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga halad sang mga malain, labi na gid kon ginahalad nila ini nga may malain nga motibo.
Ang butigon nga saksi indi na pagpahambalon,
Ang malain nga tawo wala nagakabalaka sa iya mga ginahimo, pero ang matarong iya ginahunahuna niya sing maayo ang iya mga ginahimo.
Mas nalipay pa ang Ginoo Ginoo kon maghimo sang husto kag matarong ang isa ka tawo sang sa maghalad siya sang mga halad.
Wala sing kaalam, pag-intiendi, ukon laygay nga makatupong sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Bisan preparado na ang mga kabayo sa inaway, ang Ginoo Ginoo lang ang makapadaog.
Sala ang pagpabugal kag ang pagkamatinaas-taason. Makilala mo ang malain nga mga tawo sa sina nga pamatasan.
Kon magplano ka sing maayo kag magmapisan, sigurado nga magauswag ka. Kon magpadasodaso ka, sigurado nga magaimol ka.
Ang manggad nga nakuha sa pagpangdaya dali lang madula, kag magadala ini sang kamatayon sa tawo.
Ang kapintas sang mga malain amo ang makapalaglag sa ila, kay indi sila gusto maghimo sang matarong.
Indi tadlong ang pagginawi sang tawo nga may sala, pero tadlong ang pagginawi sang tawo nga wala sing sala.
Mas maayo pa nga mag-estar sa ibabaw sang atop sang balay
Mas maayo nga pilion ang maayo nga reputasyon sang sa madamo nga manggad. Ang pagtahod sang mga tawo sa imo mas bilidhon pa sang sa bulawan kag pilak.
Kon palayason ang mga tawo nga nagapangyaguta, madula na ang pagbinaisay, pag-ilinaway, kag pag-insultuhanay.
Mangin amigo sang hari ang tawo nga sinsero kag malulo maghambal.
Ginabantayan maayo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga maalamon, pero ginaguba niya ang mga plano sang mga maluibon.
Ang matamad nga tawo indi magguwa sa balay kay kuno may leon sa guwa kag basi tukbon siya.
Ang mga ginahambal sang malain nga babayi makahalit sa imo makahalit sa imo pareho sa madalom nga buho, kag sa sini nga buho nagakahulog ang mga ginakaugtan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Batasan na sang mga bata ang pagbinuang, pero matadlong ini nga batasan kon disiplinahon sila.
Magaimol ang tawo nga nagahatag sa mga manggaranon ukon nagadaogdaog sa mga imol para magmanggaranon siya.
Pamatii ang ginasiling sang maalamon nga mga tawo. Pamatii ini sing maayo samtang ginatudlo ko ini sa imo,
kay magmalipayon ka gid kon mahibaluan mo kag masaulo ini.
Ginatudlo ko ini subong sa imo para magsalig ka sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang manggaranon kag ang imol pareho lang nga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsulat ako sang 30 ka hulubaton nga makalaygay kag makahatag sa imo sang kaalam.
Paagi sini mahibaluan mo kon ano ang kamatuoran, kag makahatag ka sing masaligan nga sabat sa tawo nga magpamangkot sa imo.
Indi ka magpamintaha sa mga imol, kag indi sila pagdaog-dauga sa korte,
kay ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang magadepensa sa ila. Kag kon ano ang inyo himuon sa ila nga indi maayo amo man ang himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo.
Indi ka magpakig-abyan sa tawo nga dali mangakig,
kay basi kon magpareho ka man sa iya, kag masiod ka sa sina nga batasan.
Indi ka magpromisa nga ikaw ang magbayad sang utang sang iban.
Kay kon indi ka makabayad, kuhaon nila bisan ang imo hiligdaan.
Indi mo paghalinon ang muhon
Ang tawo nga maayo mag-obra magaalagad sa mga hari kag indi sa ordinaryo nga mga tawo.
Nagalikaw ang maalamon nga tawo kon masugata niya ang katalagman, pero wala nagalikaw ang tawo nga wala sing alam, gani nagaantos siya.
Ang pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo kag ang pagpaubos makahatag sa imo sang manggad, dungog, kag malawig nga kabuhi.
Nagalakat ang mga malain sa dalan nga tunukon kag may mga siod. Maglikaw ka sa sina nga dalan kon ginatipigan mo ang imo kabuhi.
Tudlui ang bata sang husto nga pagginawi, kag dumdumon niya ina bisan tigulang na siya.
Ang mga imol ginadumalahan sang mga manggaranon, kag ang mga nagautang ulipon sang mga nagapautang.
Ang nagapanggas sang kalautan magaani sang kalaglagan, kag mauntat na ang iya pagpanghalit sa iban.
Pakamaayuhon sang Dios sang Dios ang mga mahinatagon nga nagahatag sang pagkaon sa mga imol.
Kon magkaon ka upod sa isa ka pangulo, magbantay ka gid sa imo hulag.
Indi mo pag-agawon ang duta sang mga ilo paagi sa paghalin sang mga muhon sini nga dugay na.
Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang ila gamhanan nga manugdepensa. Siya ang magaapin sa ila kontra sa imo.
Magpamati ka kon ginatadlong ang imo pamatasan para makatuon ka.
Indi ka magkahisa sa mga makasasala kundi magtahod ka permi sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag sigurado gid nga may maayo ka nga palaabuton, kag indi mapaslawan ang imo mga ginahandom.
Anak, magpamati ka sa mga ginatudlo ko sa imo. Magmaalamon ka kag sunda ang husto nga dalan.
Kon palakaon ka, punggi ang imo kaugalingon.
Magpamati ka sa imo ginikanan nga naghatag sa imo sang kabuhi, kag indi sila pagpakalaina kon tigulang na sila.
Tinguhai nga makabaton ka sang kamatuoran, kaalam, pagtadlong sa imo pamatasan, kag pag-intiendi. Kag indi mo gid ini pag-ibaylo sa bisan ano nga butang.
Anak, pamatii ako sing maayo, kag sunda ang akon pagkabuhi.
Kay ang babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas makahalit sa imo makahalit sa imo pareho sa madalom kag makitid nga buho.
Pareho siya sa tulisan nga nagahulat sang mabiktima, kag siya ang kabangdanan sang pagluib sang madamo nga bana sa ila mga asawa.
Sin-o ang tawo nga miserable, nagapangaway, nagareklamo, nagakapilasan nga sarang niya kuntani malikawan, kag nagapalamula ang iya mata?
Indi paghanduma ang manamit nga pagkaon nga ginhanda niya, kay basi kon ginatilawan lang niya ang imo pagginawi ang imo pagginawi .
Siya amo ang tawo nga palahubog, nga mahilig magtilaw sang sari-sari nga ilimnon.
Indi ka magpaganyat sa maisog nga bino, nga kanami tulukon sa baso kag suwabe imnon.
Kay kon mahubog ka na, magalain ang imo pamatyag, nga magalain ang imo pamatyag, nga daw sa ginkagat ka sang dalitan nga man-og.
Kag bisan ano na lang ang imo makita, kag indi ka makahunahuna sing maayo.
Ang pamatyag mo daw ara ka sa tunga sang lawod nga nagahigda sa ibabaw sang palo
Magasiling ka, “May naglampos kag nagsumbag sa akon, pero wala lang ako kabatyag. San-o pa ako maumpawan para makainom ako liwat?”
Indi pagpakapuyi ang imo kaugalingon sa sobra nga pagpaninguha nga magmanggaranon. Sa baylo, punggi ang imo kaugalingon kag hunahunaa kon ano ang husto.
Ang kuwarta madula sa isa lang ka pamisok, nga daw sa may pakpak kag nagalupad palayo pareho sa agila.
Indi ka magkaon ukon maghandom sa pagkaon nga ginhanda sang kuripot nga tawo, bisan manamit pa ini.
Kay ang tawo nga pareho sina nagabantay kon ano kadamo ang imo ginakaon.
Gani iluad mo ang imo kinaon kag mangin wala sing pulos ang imo mga pagdayaw sa iya.
Indi ka magpakig-estorya sa mga buang-buang, kay bisan may kaalam pa ang imo ginahambal wala lang gihapon ini sing pulos para sa ila.
Indi ka magkahisa sa mga malain ukon maghandom nga magpakig-abyan sa ila.
Kon madulaan ka sang paglaom sa tion sang kalisod, nagapakita lang nga maluya ka.
Indi ka magpabaya sa pagluwas sa mga tawo nga wala sing sala nga wala sing sala nga ginsentensyahan nga patyon.
Mahimo nga magsiling ka nga wala ka nakahibalo parte sini. Pero nahibaluan sang Dios kon nagasugid ka sang matuod ukon wala kon nagasugid ka sang matuod ukon wala , kay nagabantay siya sa imo kag nakahibalo siya kon ano gid ang ara sa imo hunahuna. Pagabalusan ka niya suno sa imo binuhatan.
Indi ka magpareho sa malain nga tawo, nga nagatiid sa pagsalakay sa elistaran sang matarong nga tawo.
Kay bisan makapito pa malaglag ang matarong nga tawo, makabangon man siya gihapon. Pero kon ang malain ang malaglag, indi na siya makabangon pa.
Indi ka magkalipay kon malaglag ang imo kaaway.
Makita sang Ginoo Ginoo kon nagakalipay ka, kag indi niya maluyagan ina; kag untatan na lang niya ang pagsilot sa imo kaaway.
Indi ka mag-ugtas ukon magkahisa sa malain nga mga tawo,
Kay ang ila lang ginahunahuna kag ginahambal amo ang pagpamintas sa iban.
kay wala sila sing maayo nga palaabuton kag mangin pareho sila sa suga nga napatay.
Anak, tahura ang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang hari. Indi ka magpakig-upod sa mga tawo nga nagarebelde sa ila,
kay wala ka kahibalo kon ano nga kalaglagan ang himuon gilayon sang Ginoo Ginoo ukon sang hari sa ila.
Indi maayo nga may pinilian ka sa paghukom.
Kon hilwayon mo ang nakasala, sumpaon ka kag kaugtan sang mga tawo.
Pero kon silutan mo ang nakasala, pakamaayuhon ka kag magauswag ka pa.
Ang indi binutig nga sabat tanda sang matuod-tuod nga pag-abyanay.
Preparaha anay ang imo palangabuhian, pareho abi sang imo talamnan, antes ka magpundar sang pamilya.
Indi ka magsaksi kontra sa imo isigkatawo sa wala sing kabangdanan, ukon magsugid sang indi matuod parte sa iya.
Indi ka magsiling, “Balusan ko siya sa iya ginhimo sa akon. Himuon ko man sa iya ang iya ginhimo sa akon.”
Nag-agi ako sa talamnan sang ubas sang isa ka matamad nga tawo nga wala sing pag-intiendi.
Puno na ini sang mga hilamon kag tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy, kag guba ang pulopader sini.
Sang makita ko ini, ginhunahuna ko sing maayo, kag nakuha ko ini nga leksyon:
Pahuway-huway kag piyong-piyong ka pa gamay,
kag magaabot gulpi sa imo ang kinawad-on nga pareho sa armado nga tulisan.
Dako gid ang mabulig sang maalamon nga mga tawo sa pagdugang sang ikasarang sang mga mangangaway,
kay kinahanglan ang ila mga laygay sa pagpakig-away. Kag mas dako ang tsansa nga magdaog kon madamo ang mga manuglaygay.
Indi matungkad sang buang-buang nga tawo ang kaalam. Wala siya sing may mahambal kon importante na nga mga butang ang ginaestoryahan.
Ang tawo nga nagaplano permi sang malain kilalahon nga manugpadihot sing kalainan.
Sala ang bisan ano nga ginapadihot sang buang-buang nga tawo, kag ginakangil-aran sang mga tawo ang nagapangyaguta.
Ari pa gid ang iban nga mga hulubaton ni Solomon nga ginkopya sang mga tinawo ni Haring Hezekia sang Juda:
Kay kon mahibaluan ini sang iban, basi pakahuy-an nila kamo, kag ang inyo reputasyon maguba hasta san-o.
Kon ang imo ginahambal nagakabagay sa okasyon, matahom matahom ini pareho sa bulawan nga mga mansanas sa pilak nga suludlan.
Ang pagsabdong sang maalamon nga tawo sa isa ka tawo nga luyag magpamati mas bilidhon pa sang sa mga alahas nga bulawan.
Ang masaligan nga mensahero makapanami sang balatyagon sang nagsugo sa iya, pareho sa mabugnaw nga tubig kon tig-ilinit.
Ang tawo nga wala nagatuman sa iya promisa pareho sa gal-om kag hangin nga wala nagadala sang ulan.
Ang pagpasensya kag ang malulo nga paghambal makakombinse sa mga manugdumala kag bisan sa mga matig-a sang tagipusuon.
Indi ka magpatama sing kaon sang honey kay basi kon magsululuka ka.
Pareho man kon magsagi ka bisita sa imo tupad-balay, basi kon matak-an siya kag maugot sa imo.
Ang tawo nga nagasaksi sing butig kontra sa iya isigkatawo makahalit makahalit pareho sa espada, inuglampos, kag pana.
Ang pagsalig sa tawo nga indi masaligan sa tion sang kalisod wala sing pulos wala sing pulos pareho sa guba nga ngipon ukon bali nga tiil.
Ginapadunggan ta ang Dios tungod sa mga butang nga wala niya ginapahayag sa aton; pero ginapadunggan ta ang mga hari tungod sa mga butang nga ginapahayag nila sa aton.
Kon ginakantahan mo sing malipayon sing malipayon ang tawo nga ara sa puwerte nga kalisod, pareho lang nga ginaubahan mo siya sang bayo sa panahon sang tigtulugnaw ukon ginabutangan mo sang langgaw ang iya pilas.
Kon ang imo kaaway ginagutom, pakauna; kon ginauhaw, paimna.
Kay kon himuon mo ini mahuya siya sa iya ginahimo sa imo,
Subong nga ang habagat nagadala sang ulan, ang kutsokutso nagadala sang kaakig.
Mas maayo pa nga mag-estar sa atop sang balay
Ang maayong balita halin sa malayo nga lugar pareho sa mabugnaw nga tubig nga makapaumpaw sa tawo nga ginauhaw.
Ang matarong nga tawo nga nagapasugot sa malain nga tawo pareho sa malubog nga tuburan ukon mahigko nga bubon.
Indi maayo ang sobra nga pagkaon sang honey, amo man ang pagtinguha nga dayawon ka lang permi sang mga tawo.
Ang tawo nga indi makapugong sang iya kaugalingon dali lang malaglag dali lang malaglag pareho sa isa ka siyudad nga wala sing pader.
Subong nga indi matakos ang kataason sang langit kag ang kadalumon sang duta, indi man matungkad ang hunahuna sang mga hari.
Kinahanglan nga kuhaon anay ang mga nagasimbog sa pilak antes ini pormahon sang platero.
Kinahanglan nga pahalinon ang malain nga mga katawhan
Kon ara ka sa atubangan sang hari, indi pagkabiga ang imo kaugalingon nga daw si sin-o ka na gid paagi sa pagpungko upod sa dungganon nga mga tawo.
Mas maayo kon hambalan ka sang hari nga magpungko didto sang sa hambalan ka niya nga maghalin, kag mahuy-an ka sa atubangan sang dungganon nga mga tawo.
Indi ka magpadasodaso sa pagsugid sa korte sang imo nakita. Kay kon mapamatud-an sang isa ka saksi nga sala ikaw, ano na lang ang imo himuon?
Kon may ginabaisan kamo sang imo kilala, baisi lang ninyo, pero indi ninyo pag-ipanugid ang sekreto sang kada isa sa inyo.
Subong nga wala nagakabagay nga magtupa ang snow kon tig-ilinit ukon ang ulan kon tig-alani, wala man nagakabagay nga dayawon ang buang-buang.
Kabuangan ina kon panaon mo ang bisan sin-o lang; amo man kon paobrahon mo ang bisan sin-o lang nga buang-buang nga nagaagi.
Subong nga ginakaon sang ido ang iya suka, ginaliwat sang buang-buang ang iya kabuangan.
Mas maayo pa ang dangatan sang buang-buang nga tawo sang sa tawo nga nagakabig sang iya kaugalingon nga maalamon siya.
Ang matamad nga tawo indi magguwa sa balay kay kuno may leon sa guwa.
Ang matamad nga tawo nagaliso-liso lang sa iya katre pareho sa puwertahan nga nagaliso-liso sa iya bisagra.
May mga tawo nga tama gid katamad nga bisan magkaon natamaran pa.
Nagahunahuna ang matamad nga tawo nga mas maalam pa siya sang sa pito ka tawo nga makahatag sang husto nga rason.
Delikado kon magpasilabot ka sa inaway sang iban; pareho lang nga nagdakop ka sang ido sa dulunggan.
Ang sumpa indi makahalit sa imo kon wala ka sing sala. Pareho ini sa pispis nga nagalabay lang kag wala nagahapon.
Subong nga nagakapatay ang kalayo kon wala sing gatong, nagauntat man ang inaway kon wala sing kutsokutso.
Subong nga ang uling makapabaga, kag ang gatong makapasiga sang kalayo, ang palaaway makapaumpisa sang gamo.
Kon ginatago mo ang malain mo nga panghunahuna paagi sa manami nga paghambal, pareho ka sang kolon nga ginhaklapan sang pilak nga indi puro.
Ang kaaway manami maghambal-hambal, pero gali nagahunahuna siya sa pagpangdaya.
Bisan makagalanyat siya kon maghambal, indi ka magpati sa iya, kay makangilil-ad gid ang iya mga ginahunahuna.
Mahimo nga magpakuno-kuno siya para matago niya ang iya kaakig, pero makita gihapon sang tanan ang malain niya nga mga binuhatan.
Ang nagakutkot sang buho para mahulog ang iban para mahulog ang iban , siya mismo ang mahulog. Ang nagapaligid sang bato para maligidan ang iban para maligidan ang iban , siya mismo ang maligidan.
Ang tawo nga nagadayaw-dayaw sa imo makalaglag sa imo.
Kinahanglan nga hanuton ang kabayo kag busalan ang donkey. Amo man ang buang-buang, kinahanglan nga silutan siya para magtuman para magtuman .
Indi pagsabta ang buang-buang kon nagaestorya siya sa imo sang binuang, kay basi kon magpareho ka man sa iya.
Pero kon kaisa maayo man kon kon kaisa maayo man kon sabton mo siya, para mahibaluan niya nga indi siya maalamon pareho sang iya ginahunahuna.
Kon ginapadala mo ang imo mensahi paagi sa buang-buang, pareho lang nga ginautod mo ang imo mga tiil; nagapangita ka lang sang kasakitan.
Ang hulubaton nga ginahambal sang mga buang-buang wala sing pulos wala sing pulos pareho sa tiil sang tawo nga piang.
Kabuangan ina kon ihigot mo sa tirador ang bato nga imo ibala; amo man kon padunggan mo ang buang-buang.
Ang hulubaton nga ginahambal sang mga buang-buang makahalit makahalit pareho sa tunukon nga kahoy-kahoy nga ginauyatan sang hubog.
Indi ka magpabugal parte sa imo himuon buwas, kay wala ka kahibalo kon ano ang matabo sa imo buwas.
Indi pagkalimti ang imo abyan, ukon ang abyan sang imo amay. Kag kon ara ka sa kalisod, indi ka na magpangayo sang bulig sa imo utod
Anak, magmaalamon ka para malipay man ako, kag para may isabat ako sa nagapakahuya sa akon.
Nagalikaw ang maalamon nga tawo kon masugata niya ang katalagman, pero wala nagalikaw ang tawo nga indi maalamon, gani nagaantos siya.
Kon magpromisa ang isa ka tawo nga siya ang mabayad sa imo sang utang sang tawo nga indi niya kilala,
Kon disturbuhon mo aga pa ang imo tupad-balay sang imo magahod nga bendisyon,
Ang asawa nga permi lang nagabais sa iya bana makaulugot makaulugot pareho sa nagatinulo nga atop kon tig-ululan.
Indi mo siya mapahipos, pareho sang hangin nga indi mo mapunggan ukon sang lana nga indi mo makaptan.
Subong nga ang salsalon mapatalom sang salsalon man, ang tawo makatuon sa iya kapareho nga tawo.
Kon tatapon mo ang kahoy nga higera, makakaon ka sang iya bunga. Pareho man kon tatapon mo ang imo amo, padunggan ka niya.
Subong nga makita ang imo hitsura sa tubig, makita mo man ang imo pagkatawo sa imo tagipusuon.
Indi pagdayawa ang imo kaugalingon; pabay-i nga ang iban ang magdayaw sa imo.
Wala nagakaayawan ang kamatayon; amo man ang handom sang tawo.
Subong nga ang bulawan kag ang pilak matestingan kon puro ukon indi paagi sa kalayo, ang aton kabuhi matestingan paagi sa pagdayaw sang iban nga tawo sa aton.
Bisan anhon mo ka silot ang buang-buang nga tawo, indi mo gid makuha ang iya pagkabuang-buang.
Bantayi kag tatapa sing maayo ang imo kasapatan,
kay ang manggad kag dungog wala nagadugay.
Pang-utda ang mga hilamon; kag samtang nagatubo ini liwat, pang-utda naman ang mga hilamon sa mga bukid, para may kalan-on permi ang imo kasapatan para may kalan-on permi ang imo kasapatan .
Makahimo ka sang mga bayo halin sa bulbol sang mga karnero, kag puwede mo ibaligya ang iban mo nga mga kanding para makabakal ka sang duta.
Makakuha ka man sang madamo nga gatas halin sa imo mga kanding para sa imo pamilya pati na sa imo mga suluguon nga babayi.
Mabug-at ang bato kag ang balas, pero mas mabug-at batyagon kon paakigon ka sang buang-buang nga tawo.
Delikado ang tawo nga akig, pero mas delikado ang tawo nga nagapangimon.
Mas maayo pa nga sawayon mo sing prangka ang isa ka tawo sang sa magsiling ka nga ginahigugma mo siya pero ginapabay-an mo lang siya.
Ang masakit nga pagsabdong sang isa ka abyan may maayo nga katuyuan, pero ang halok sang kaaway indi masaligan.
Kon ang isa ka tawo busog na, bisan ang honey daw wala na sing sabor para sa iya; pero kon gutom siya, bisan ang mapait nga pagkaon matam-is para sa iya.
Ang tawo nga naglayas sa iya balay pareho sa pispis nga naglayas sa iya pugad.
Subong nga ang pahamot kag ang insenso makapalipay sa tawo, ang sinsero nga laygay sang isa ka abyan makapalipay man.
Ang malain nga tawo nagapalagyo bisan wala sing may nagalagas sa iya, pero ang matarong nga tawo maisog pareho sa leon.
Ang tawo nga nagapadihot nga magpakasala ang matarong nga tawo mabiktima sa iya kaugalingon nga padihot. Pero ang tawo nga ang iya kabuhi wala sing kasawayan magauswag.
Nagahunahuna ang mga manggaranon nga mga maalamon na gid sila, pero ang imol nga tawo nga may pag-intiendi nakahibalo kon ano gid sila nga klase sang tawo.
Kon ang mga matarong ang magdumala, nagakalipay ang mga tawo, pero kon ang mga malain na gani, nagapalanago sila.
Indi ka gid magmauswagon kon indi mo pag-ituad ang imo mga sala, pero kon ituad mo ini kag talikdan, kaluoyan ka sang Dios.
Bulahan ang tawo nga nagatahod permi sa Ginoo Ginoo , pero ang tawo ya nga matig-a sang tagipusuon malaglag.
Ang malain nga tawo nga nagadumala sa mga imol kaangay sang nagangurob nga leon ukon bear nga nagapangita sang mabiktima.
Ang manugdumala nga indi gusto magmanggaranon sa malain nga paagi magalawig ang iya kabuhi.
Ang tawo nga ginakonsensya
Ang tawo nga nagakabuhi nga wala sing kasawayan indi maano, pero ang tawo nga indi husto ang iya pagginawi malaglag gulpi.
Ang mapisan nga mangunguma may bugana nga pagkaon, pero ang nagausik sang iya tiyempo sa wala sing pulos nga mga buluhaton magaimol.
Kon ang isa ka nasyon nagapakasala, ang pangulo sini permi ginailisan. Pero magapadayon nga mabakod ang isa ka nasyon kon ang pangulo sini maalamon.
Pakamaayuhon gid sang Dios sang Dios ang masaligan nga tawo, pero ang tawo nga nagadali nga magmanggaranon pagasilutan.
Indi maayo kon may pinilian ka. Pero may mga tawo nga nagahimo sini tungod kay nadala sila sa lagay, bisan gamay lang ini.
Ang tawo nga dalok sa kuwarta nagadali gid nga magmanggaranon, pero wala siya kahibalo nga magaimol gali siya.
Pasalamatan ka pa sa ulihi sang tawo kon sabdungon mo siya sang sa dayaw-dayawon mo siya.
Ang tawo nga nagapangawat sa iya ginikanan kag nagasiling nga indi ina sala, kaupod siya sang mga kriminal.
Ang maiyaiyahon nga tawo nagapaumpisa lang sang gamo, pero ang tawo nga nagasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo magauswag.
Ang tawo nga nagakabuhi nga maalamon indi maano.
Ang tawo nga mahinatagon sa mga imol indi gid mawad-an, pero ang wala nagabulig sa mga imol makabaton sang madamo nga pagpakamalaot.
Nagapalanago ang mga tawo kon ang mga malain ang magdumala. Pero kon malaglag sila, ang mga matarong naman ang magadumala.
Ang imol nga tawo nga nagapamigos sa iya kapareho nga imol pareho sa mabaskog nga ulan nga nagapierdi sang mga tanom.
Ang mga wala nagatuman sa Kasuguan nagadayaw sa mga malain, pero ang mga nagatuman, nagakontra sa mga malain.
Ang malain nga mga tawo indi makaintiendi sang hustisya, pero ang mga nagadangop sa Ginoo Ginoo nakaintiendi gid sini sing maayo.
Mas maayo pa ang imol nga nagakabuhi nga wala sing kasawayan sang sa manggaranon nga indi husto ang iya pagginawi.
Maalamon ang anak nga nagatuman sa Kasuguan, pero ang anak nga nagapakig-barkada sa mga burara
Kon nagamanggaranon ka paagi sa pagpasaka sang kuwarta, ang imo manggad magakadto sa tawo nga mabinuligon sa mga imol.
Ang bisan sin-o nga indi magtuman sa Kasuguan, kangil-aran sang Dios bisan ang iya pangamuyo.
Ang tawo nga nagapatig-a pa gid sang iya tagipusuon bisan kapila na siya sabdungon malaglag gulpi kag indi na makabangon pa.
Ginakaugtan kag ginatinguhaan nga patyon sang mga manugpatay ang mga tawo nga nagakabuhi sing husto kag wala sing kasawayan.
Ang buang-buang nga tawo indi makapugong sang iya kaakig, pero ang maalamon nga tawo makapugong sang iya kaugalingon.
Kon ang isa ka pangulo nagapati sa mga kabutigan, ang tanan niya nga mga opisyal mangin malain.
Ang imol kag ang nagadaogdaog sa iya pareho lang nga ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mata.
Kon matarong ang paghukom sang isa ka hari sa mga imol, magapadayon ang iya pagdumala.
Ang paghanot sa bata sa pagdisiplina sa iya makatudlo sa iya nga magmaalamon, pero kon pabay-an lang siya, makahatag siya sang kahuy-anan sa iya ginikanan.
Kon ang mga malain ang magdumala, nagadugang ang mga kalautan. Pero ini sila malaglag, kag makita ini sang mga matarong.
Disiplinaha ang imo anak, kag hatagan niya ikaw sang kalinong kag kalipay.
Kon wala sing mensahi sang Dios nga magtuytoy sa katawhan, nagapinagusto ini. Bulahan ang mga tawo nga nagatuman sa mga ginatudlo
May ara nga suluguon nga indi mo matudluan paagi lang sa paghambal sa iya, kay bisan naintiendihan niya ikaw, indi siya magpamati.
Kon ang mga matarong ang magdumala, nagakalipay ang mga tawo; pero kon ang mga malain na gani, nagakasubo gid sila.
Mas maayo pa ang dangatan sang buang-buang nga tawo sang sa tawo nga nagapataka lang kahambal.
Kon ginapagustuhan mo lang ang imo suluguon halin sang bata pa siya, sa ulihi mangin problema mo siya.
Ang tawo nga dali mangakig nagapaumpisa sang gamo, kag permi lang siya makasala.
Ang pagpabugal sang tawo makahatag sa iya sang kahuy-anan, pero ang pagpaubos sang tawo makahatag sa iya sang kadungganan.
Ang tawo nga kasabwat sang makawat nagahalit sang iya kaugalingon. Bisan ginpasumpa siya nga magsugid sang matuod nga magsugid sang matuod , indi gid siya magsugid.
Delikado kon mahinadlukon kita.
Madamo ang nagapangayo sang pabor sa isa ka pangulo, pero ang Ginoo Ginoo gid lang ang makahatag sang hustisya.
Ginakangil-aran sang mga matarong ang mga malain, kag ginakangil-aran sang mga malain ang mga matarong.
Ang tawo nga nagasagi upod sa mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas nagausik lang sang iya kuwarta.
Kon ang ginakabalak-an sang hari amo ang hustisya, ginapabakod niya ang iya ginharian, pero kon ang ginakabalak-an niya amo ang lagay, ginalaglag niya ang iya ginharian.
Ang tawo nga nagadayaw-dayaw sa iya isigkatawo nagaplano sing malain sa iya.
Ang malain nga tawo masiod sa iya kaugalingon nga sala, pero ang matarong nga tawo magakanta sing malipayon.
Nagakabalaka ang matarong nga tawo sa kinamatarong sang mga imol. Indi ini maintiendihan sang malain nga tawo.
Ang mga tawo nga nagapangyaguta nagapaumpisa sang gamo sa isa ka siyudad, pero ang maalamon nga mga tawo nagapauntat sini.
Wala gid sing padulungan kon iakusar sang maalamon nga tawo ang isa ka buang-buang, kay magasagi lang wakal ang buang-buang kag magpangyaguta.
Amo ini ang mga hulubaton ni Agur nga anak ni Jake nga taga-Masa. Iya ini ginsiling kay Itiel kag kay Ucal:
Indi pagpakalaina ang isa ka ulipon sa atubangan sang iya amo, kay pakamalauton ka niya kag magaantos ka.
May mga kabataan nga wala nagapangamuyo nga pakamaayuhon sang Dios ang ila mga ginikanan kundi ginapakamalaot pa gani nila.
May mga tawo nga ang pagtan-aw nila sang ila kaugalingon perpekto na gid, pero ang matuod mahigko ang ila kabuhi.
May mga tawo nga tama gid ka bugalon, nga kon magtulok daw si sin-o gid.
May mga tawo man nga daw buaya, nga puwerte kapintas sa ila nga pagpamintaha sa mga imol.
May tatlo ukon apat pa gani ka butang nga wala nagakaayawan:
kag ang kalayo.
Ang tawo nga nagayaguta kag wala nagatuman sa iya ginikanan tuhakon sang mga uwak ang iya mga mata, kag kaunon sang mga agila ang iya bangkay.
May tatlo ukon apat pa gani ka butang nga makatilingala para sa akon kag indi ko maintiendihan:
kag kon paano nga ang lalaki makapangaluyag sa babayi.
Ang akon panghunahuna daw indi iya sang tawo.
Amo ini ang ginahimo sang babayi nga nagapanginlalaki: Nagapakighilawas siya sa iban nga lalaki, pagkatapos siya nga maligo, nagasiling siya nga wala siya sing may nahimo nga malain.
May tatlo ukon apat pa gani ka butang nga indi maagwantahan sang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan:
May apat ka sapat diri sa kalibutan nga magagmay pero tama kaalam:
Ang mga subay, nga bisan maluya sila, nagatipon sila sang ila pagkaon kon tig-ilinit,
ang mga badier,
ang mga apan, nga bisan wala sila sing pangulo, nagatingob sila kon maglupad,
ang mga tiki, nga bisan puwede mo sila dakpon sang imo kamot, makita sila sa mga palasyo.
May tatlo ukon apat pa gani ka tinuga nga daw si sin-o kon maglakat:
kag wala ako sing may nahibaluan parte sa Dios.
ang leon, nga pinakamakusog sa tanan nga sapat kag wala sing may ginakahadlukan,
kag ang hari nga nagapanguna sa iya mga soldado.
Kon sa imo pagkabuang-buang nagapabugal ka kag nagaplano sang malain, untata na ina!
Indi bala nga kon sige mo kalugay ang malapuyot nga gatas
Kon may kilala ka, sugiri ako sang iya ngalan kag sang ngalan sang iya mga anak.
Pareho siya sa taming sa mga nagapangayo sang proteksyon sa iya.
kay kon himuon mo ini, sabdungon ka niya kag ipakita niya nga butigon ka.”
Ginoo Ginoo , may duha ako ka butang nga pangayuon sa imo. Kon mahimo ihatag ini sa akon sa wala pa ako mapatay.
Una, buligi ako nga indi ako magbutig. Ikaduha, indi ako pagpamanggaruna ukon pagpaimula, kundi hatagi lang ako sang akon ginakinahanglan.
Kay kon manggaranon ako, basi kon indi ko ikaw pagkilalahon; kag kon imol ako, basi kon mangawat ako kag mapahuy-an ko ikaw.
Amo ini ang mga hulubaton ni Haring Lemuel nga taga-Masa,
Nagasalig gid ang iya bana sa iya, kag wala na sing pangitaon pa ang iya bana sa iya.
Samtang nagakabuhi siya, puro kaayuhan ang ginahimo niya sa iya bana kag indi kalainan.
Mapisan siya maghimo sang mga tela nga mga tela nga delana kag linen.
Pareho siya sa barko sang mga negosyante; nagadala siya sang pagkaon bisan halin pa siya sa malayo nga lugar.
Aga pa gid siya nagabugtaw para magpreparar sang pagkaon para sa iya pamilya, kag para hambalan ang iya mga suluguon nga babayi kon ano ang ila ulobrahon.
Makahibalo siya magpili sang duta, kag ginabakal niya ini. Dayon ginapatamnan niya ini sang ubas halin sa kuwarta nga iya natipon.
Mabakas siya, mapisan, kag mabaskog.
Maayo siya magnegosyo, kag nagaobra siya hasta sa gab-i.
Siya lang mismo ang nagahimo sang tela para himuon nga bayo.
Anak ko, natawo ka bilang sabat sa akon mga pangamuyo. Nagasiling ako sa imo nga indi mo
Maalwan siya sa mga imol kag mga bululigan.
Kon tigtulugnaw, wala siya nagakabalaka kay may madamol siya nga mga panapton para sa iya pamilya.
Siya lang mismo ang nagahimo sang inughapin sa ila mga katre. Kag ang iya mga bayo matahom kag malahalon.
Kilala ang iya bana bilang isa sa mga opisyal sa ila lugar.
Nagapanghimo siya sang mga bayo kag mga paha, kag ginabaligya niya ini sa mga negosyante.
Mabakod siya kag ginatahod, kag wala siya mahadlok sa palaabuton.
Nagahambal siya nga may kaalam, kag nagatudlo siya nga may kaayo.
Mapisan siya, kag ginatatap gid niya sing maayo ang iya panimalay.
Ginadayaw siya sang iya mga anak, kag amo man sang iya bana nga nagasiling,
“Madamo ang maayo nga mga asawa, pero ikaw ang pinakamaayo sa ila tanan!”
pag-usikan ang imo tiyempo kag kuwarta sa mga babayi, kay sila ang kabangdanan nga nalaglag ang mga hari.
Ang pagkaingganyusa makadaya, kag ang kaguwapa umalagi lang. Pero ang babayi nga nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo amo ang dapat nga dayawon.
Dapat balusan siya sa iya maayo nga mga binuhatan kag padunggan sa publiko.
Lemuel, indi dapat mag-inom ang mga hari sang bino. Indi dapat maghandom ang mga manugdumala sang makahulubog nga mga ilimnon.
Kay kon mahubog na gani sila, nagakalipat sila sa mga kasuguan, kag ginalapas nila ang kinamatarong sang mga imol.
Depensahi ang kinamatarong sang mga tawo nga makaluluoy, nga indi makadepensa sang ila kaugalingon.
Maghukom ka nga wala sing may pinilian, kag depensahi ang kinamatarong sang mga imol.
Amo ini ang mga ginsiling sang isa ka manugwali
May butang bala nga masiling mo nga bag-o naman? Pero ara na ina sang una pa, bisan sang wala pa kita matawo.
Wala ginadumdom sang mga tawo ang mga nagligad; amo man ang palaabuton, indi man ini pagdumdumon sang mga tawo sa ulihi.
Ako nga isa ka manugwali naghari sa Israel, kag kag sa Jerusalem ako nag-estar ako nag-estar .
Sa akon kaalam, gintun-an ko gid sing maayo ang tanan nga nagakalatabo diri sa kalibutan. Isa ini ka makatalaka nga buluhaton nga ginhatag sang Dios nga kabalak-an sang tawo.
Nakita ko ang tanan nga ginahimo diri sa kalibutan, kag ini tanan wala sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ako sa hangin.
Ang tiko indi mo mapatadlong, kag ang wala indi mo maisip.
Nagsiling ako sa akon kaugalingon, “Mas maalam gid ako sang sa tanan nga naghari sa Jerusalem antes sa akon. Madamo gid ako sang nahibaluan.”
Gintun-an ko sing maayo ang kinalain sang kaalam kag kabuangan, pero nareyalisar ko nga ini wala man sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ako sa hangin.
Kay sang nagdugang ang akon nahibaluan, nagdugang man ang kalain sang akon buot.
Wala sing pulos! Wala gid sing pulos ang tanan!
Ano bala ang makuha sang tawo sa iya pagpangabudlay diri sa kalibutan?
Nagataliwan ang isa ka henerasyon kag nagabulos naman ang isa, pero ang kalibutan amo lang gihapon.
Nagabutlak ang adlaw, kag dayon nagasalop; nagabalik-balik lang ini sa iya ginahalinan.
Nagahuyop ang hangin sa south kag dayon sa north; nagalibot-libot lang ini kag nagabalik-balik.
Ang tanan nga suba nagailig sa dagat, pero wala ini nagakapuno bisan sige-sige ang ilig sang suba.
Ina tanan nga butang makatalaka—ang pagkatalaka nga indi maeksplikar. Wala nagakaayawan ang aton mga mata kag mga dulunggan sa aton makita kag mabatian.
Ang mga natabo sang una matabo man liwat. Ang mga ginhimo sang una himuon man liwat. Wala gid sing bag-o nga nagakatabo sa kalibutan.
Gintilawan ko nga magpangalipay para mahibaluan ko kon ano ang maayo sa kabuhi. Pero nareyalisar ko nga ini wala man gihapon sing pulos.
Ginkuha ko ang bisan ano nga gusto ko. Ginhimo ko ang bisan ano nga makalipay sa akon. Nalipay gid ako sa tanan ko nga ginhimo, kag amo ina ang balos sa tanan ko nga pagpangabudlay.
Pero sang ginhunahuna ko sing maayo ang tanan ko nga ginhimo, nareyalisar ko nga ini tanan wala sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ako sa hangin. Wala gid sing pulos ang pagpangabudlay diri sa kalibutan.
Gintilawan ko man nga ikomparar ang kaalam kag ang kabuangan.
Kag nakita ko nga maayo ang kaalam sang sa kabuangan, subong nga ang kasanag maayo sang sa kadulom.
Ang maalamon nga tawo nakahibalo kon diin siya nagapakadto, pero ang buang-buang ya wala. Pero nareyalisar ko nga pareho man lang sila nga duha nga mapatay.
Gani nagsiling ako sa akon kaugalingon, “Kon ano ang matabo sa buang-buang amo man ang matabo sa akon. Gani ano ang makuha ko nga kaayuhan sa akon pagkamaalamon? Wala man ini sing pulos!
Kita tanan, maalam man ukon buang-buang, mapatay sa ulihi, kag palareho nga malimtan.”
Gani ginkaugtan ko ang kabuhi, kay ang mga buluhaton diri sa kalibutan nagadala lang sa akon sang kalisod. Ini tanan wala sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ako sa hangin.
Ginkaugtan ko ang tanan nga ginpangabudlayan ko diri sa kalibutan, kay ibilin ko man lang ini sa tawo nga magabulos sa akon.
Kag sin-o ang nakahibalo kon maalamon ina nga tawo ukon buang-buang? Pero bisan ano pa siya, siya gihapon ang magapanag-iya sang tanan ko nga ginpangabudlayan sa bug-os ko nga kusog kag kaalam. Wala man ini sing pulos!
Ang pagkadlaw kag pagpangalipay kabuangan lang kag wala sing pulos.
Gani desperado ako sa tanan nga ginpangabudlayan ko diri sa kalibutan.
Kay bisan magpangabudlay ka pa sa bug-os mo nga kaalam kag abilidad, ibilin mo man lang ang tanan nga ginpangabudlayan mo sa tawo nga wala nagpangabudlay sini. Wala man ini sing pulos, kag tama kalain.
Ano bala ang makuha sang tawo sa iya pagpangabudlay kag paghimakas diri sa kalibutan?
Ang tanan nga ginahimo niya sa bilog niya nga kabuhi nagapalain lang sang iya buot. Bisan kon gab-i indi makapahuway ang iya hunahuna. Wala man ini sing pulos!
Ang labing maayo nga himuon sang tawo amo ang pagkaon kag pag-inom, kag ang pagpangalipay sa iya ginpangabudlayan. Kag nareyalisar ko nga bisan ini halin sa Dios,
kay paano kita makakaon kag makapangalipay sa aton ginpangabudlayan sa aton ginpangabudlayan kon indi ini pag-ihatag sang Dios?
Sa pagkamatuod, ginahatagan sang Dios sang kaalam, ihibalo kag kalipay ang tawo nga nagahatag sang kalipay sa iya. Pero ang mga makasasala ginapapangabudlay niya sa pagtipon sang manggad, para ang ila matipon ihatag niya sa mga tawo nga nagahatag sang kalipay sa iya. Ang pagpangabudlay sang mga makasasala wala man sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas sila sa hangin.
Gintilawan ko nga lipayon ang akon kaugalingon paagi sa pag-inom sang bino. Sa pihak sang akon pagkamaalamon, gintilawan ko nga maghimo sang kabuangan. Naghunahuna ako nga basi amo ini ang pinakamaayo nga himuon sang tawo sa iya malip-ot nga pagkabuhi diri sa kalibutan.
Naghimo ako sang dalagko nga mga butang: nagpatindog ako sang akon mga balay kag nagtanom sang mga ubas.
Nagpahimo ako sang mga talamnan kag ginpatamnan ko ini sang nagkalain-lain nga klase sang mga prutas.
Nagpahimo ako sang mga irigasyon sa pagpatubig sini.
Nagbakal ako sang mga ulipon nga lalaki kag babayi, kag may mga ulipon man ako nga natawo sa akon panimalay. Kag ako ang may pinakamadamo nga kasapatan sa tanan nga nakaestar sa Jerusalem.
Madamo ang akon natipon nga mga bulawan kag mga pilak kag iban pa nga mga manggad halin sa mga hari kag sa mga lugar nga akon ginagamhan. Madamo ang akon mga manugkanta, lalaki kag babayi, kag madamo man ang akon mga asawa
Ako ang pinakamanggaranon nga tawo nga nakaestar sa Jerusalem, kag padayon ako nga maalamon.
May tagsa ka tion ang tanan nga buluhaton diri sa kalibutan:
Nakita ko ang mga buluhaton nga ginhatag sang Dios nga kabalak-an sang tawo.
Kag ini tanan gintalana sang Dios nga matabo sa husto nga tion. Ginhatagan niya kita sang handom nga mahibaluan ang palaabuton, pero indi gid naton matungkad ang iya mga ginhimo halin sang umpisa hasta sa katapusan.
Nahibaluan ko nga ang labing maayo nga himuon sang tawo samtang buhi pa siya amo ang pagkalipay, ang paghimo sang maayo,
ang pagkaon kag pag-inom, kag ang pagpangalipay sa iya ginpangabudlayan. Ini nga mga butang grasya sang Dios.
Nahibaluan ko nga ang tanan nga ginahimo sang Dios magapadayon hasta san-o, kag indi ini maliwat. Ginahimo ini sang Dios para magtahod ang tawo sa iya.
Ang nagakatabo subong kag ang matabo sa ulihi natabo na sang una. Ginaliwat-liwat lang sang Dios ang mga nagakatabo.
Nakita ko man diri sa kalibutan nga ang kalautan amo ang nagagahom imbes ang hustisya kag pagkamatarong.
Nagsiling ako sa akon kaugalingon, “Hukman sang Dios ang matarong kag ang malain nga mga tawo, kay may gintalana siya nga tion sa tagsa ka buluhaton.
Ginatestingan sang Dios ang mga tawo para ipakita sa ila nga pareho lang sila sa sapat.
Pareho man lang ang dangatan sang tawo kag sang sapat; pareho sila nga mapatay. Pareho man lang sila nga may ginhawa, gani ang tawo wala sing bintaha sa sapat. Matuod gid man nga ang tanan wala sing pulos.
may tion sa pagtanom kag may tion man sa pag-ani,
Pareho lang ang padulungan sang tanan nga buhi nga tinuga nga buhi nga tinuga . Sila tanan halin sa duta, kag sa duta man sila magabalik.
Wala sing may nakahibalo kon ang espiritu sang tawo
Gani nareyalisar ko nga ang labing maayo nga himuon sang tawo amo ang pagpangalipay sa iya ginpangabudlayan, kay para gid man ina sa iya. Wala sing may makasugid sa tawo kon ano ang matabo sa tapos siya mapatay.
may tion sa pagguba kag may tion man sa pagpatindog,
may tion sa pagpangasubo kag may tion man sa pagsinaot,
may tion sa pagkitaay,
may tion sa pagtago kag may tion man sa pagpilak,
may tion sa paghipos kag may tion man sa paghambal,
may tion sa pag-inaway kag may tion man sa pag-abyanay.
Kon ang ini nga mga tion gintalana na sang Dios, Kon ang ini nga mga tion gintalana na sang Dios, ano bala ang pulos sang pagpangabudlay sang tawo?
Nakita ko pa gid ang mga pagpamigos diri sa kalibutan. Nakita ko ang mga paghibi sang mga ginadaogdaog, kag wala sing may nagalipay kag nagapabakod sa ila. Gamhanan ang mga nagapamigos sa ila.
kon ara ka sa kalisod, mabuligan ka sang imo upod. Pero makaluluoy ka kon ara ka sa kalisod nga wala sing may magbulig sa imo.
Kag kon matugnaw, makahuliray kamo sang imo upod kag makapainit-init. Pero paano ka makapainit-init kon ikaw lang isa?
Mahapos ka pierdihon kon ikaw lang isa, pero kon may upod ka mabudlay kamo pierdihon. Pareho bala sang lubid; kon tatlo ini ka doble, mabudlay ini bugtuon.
Mas maayo pa ang pamatan-on nga imol nga maalamon sang sa tigulang nga hari nga buang-buang, nga indi gusto laygayan.
Kag mahimo nga ang ato nga pamatan-on mangin hari bisan napriso siya, kag ang ato nga hari mangin imol bisan natawo siya sa harianon nga pamilya.
Pero nareyalisar ko nga bisan madamo gid nga mga tawo diri sa kalibutan ang magsunod sa sadto nga pamatan-on nga nagbulos sa hari,
kag indi maisip ang mga tawo nga iya dumalahan, mahimo nga indi malipay sa iya ang ulihi nga mga henerasyon. Ini wala man sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ka sa hangin.
Gani nakasiling ako nga mas maayo pa ang mga patay sang sa mga buhi.
Pero mas maayo pa gid ang mga wala pa matawo, nga wala makakita sang mga kalautan diri sa kalibutan.
Nakita ko man nga ang tawo nagapangabudlay kag nagahimo gid sa iya masarangan kay nahisa siya sa iya isigkatawo. Wala man ini sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ka sa hangin.
Ang buang-buang nga tawo nagatinamad, kag tungod sini ginaguba niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Mas maayo pa nga diutay lang ang imo pagkaon nga may kalinong ka sang sa madamo ang imo pagkaon nga nagpangabudlay ka gid, nga wala man lang sing pulos nga wala man lang sing pulos . Daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ka sa hangin.
May nakita pa ako diri sa kalibutan nga wala sing pulos:
May isa ka tawo nga nagaisahanon lang. Wala siya sing anak ukon utod, pero wala sing untat ang iya pagpangabudlay, kag indi siya kontento sa iya manggad. Nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, Nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Indi na ako makapangalipay sa sobra nga pagpangabudlay. Pero wala man ako sing may bilinan sang akon pinangabudlayan.” Wala ini sing pulos! Masubo ini nga klase sang pagpangabuhi!
Mas maayo kon may upod ka sang sa isa ka lang, kay amo ini ang maayo nga mahimo kon may upod ka:
Maghalong ka sa imo ginahimo kon magkadto ka sa templo sang Dios. Mas maayo pa nga magpalapit ka didto nga handa nga magtuman sa Dios
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagahigugma sa kuwarta kag sa iban pa nga manggad indi makontento sini. Ini wala man sing pulos.
Kon nagadugang ang imo manggad, nagadugang man ang nagaubos sini, kag indi ka makapulos sang imo manggad.
Ang trabahador makatulog sing maayo bisan gamay ukon madamo ang iya pagkaon, pero ang manggaranon iya, sa sobra nga manggad, indi makatulog sing maayo.
May nakita ako nga indi gid maayo diri sa kalibutan: Ang manggad nga natipon sang tawo makahalit sa iya
ukon madula ini sa indi maayo nga negosyo, kag wala na sing may mabilin para sa iya mga kabataan.
Natawo kita nga wala sing dala, kag mapatay kita nga wala man sing dala. Wala gid kita sing may madala sa aton nga ginpangabudlayan.
Indi gid ini maayo! Mapatay kita nga wala sing dala nga wala sing dala pareho sang aton pagkatawo. Ti ano ang makuha ta sa aton pagpangabudlay nga wala man lang sing pulos?
Ang aton kabuhi puno sang kalisod,
Gani nareyalisar ko nga ang labing maayo nga himuon sang tawo sa iya malip-ot nga kabuhi nga ginhatag sang Dios sa iya amo ang pagkaon, pag-inom, kag pagpangalipay sa iya ginpangabudlayan diri sa kalibutan, kay para gid man ina sa iya.
Ginhatagan sang Dios ang tawo sang pagkabutang kag sang iban pa nga manggad, kag gintugutan niya siya nga makapulos sini, para mabaton niya ang para sa iya kag makapangalipay siya sa iya ginpangabudlayan. Regalo ini sang Dios sa iya.
Indi ka magpadasodaso sa paghambal. Hunahunaa anay sing maayo antes ka magpromisa sa Dios. Dumduma nga ang Dios ara sa langit kag ikaw ya diri lang sa duta, gani indi ka magpataka sing hambal.
Kag tungod nga ginapasako permi sang Dios ang tawo sa pagkalipay, wala nagakabalaka ang tawo sa kalip-ot sang iya kabuhi.
Subong nga dali ka magdamgo kon magsagi ka palibog, dali ka man makahambal sing kabuangan kon magpataka ka lang sing hambal.
Kon magpromisa ka sa Dios, indi pagpadugaya ang pagtuman sini. Tumana gid ang imo ginpromisa sa iya kay wala siya nagakalipay sa mga buang-buang nga wala nagatuman sang ila promisa nga wala nagatuman sang ila promisa .
Mas maayo pa nga indi ka na lang magpromisa sang sa magpromisa ka nga indi mo man lang pagtumanon.
Indi ka magpakasala sa imo paghambal, kag indi ka magsiling sa pari
Ang sobra mo nga damgo kag hambal wala gid sing pulos. Gani magtahod ka sa Dios.
Indi ka matingala kon makita mo sa inyo lugar ang mga imol nga ginadaogdaog, nga wala ginahatagan sang hustisya kag ginabaliwala ang ila kinamatarong. Kay ang opisyal nga nagadaogdaog sa ila nga nagadaogdaog sa ila protektado sang mas mataas pa nga opisyal, kag ining duha protektado sang mas mataas pa gid nga opisyal.
Pero mas labaw nga makabintaha ang hari sa duta sang mga imol sang mga imol sang sa ila tanan nga opisyal nga opisyal .
May nakita pa gid ako nga indi maayo diri sa kalibutan nga nagapabug-at sa tawo:
Napat-od na sang Dios sang Dios ang tanan sang una pa, kag nahibaluan na niya kon mangin ano kita. Gani indi kita makalalis sa Dios parte sa aton kapalaran, kay Dios parte sa aton kapalaran, kay mas makusog siya sang sa aton.
Kon nagasagi pa kita kalalis, nagadugang pa gid gani ang aton paghambal sang wala sing pulos, kag wala ini nagahatag sang kaayuhan sa aton.
Wala sing may nakahibalo kon ano gid ang maayo para sa tawo sa iya malip-ot kag wala sing pulos nga kabuhi nga umalagi lang pareho sa landong. Wala sing may makasugid sa iya kon ano ang matabo sa kalibutan sa tapos siya mapatay.
May mga tawo nga ginhatagan sang Dios sang tanan nila nga ginahandom: dungog, pagkabutang kag iban pa nga manggad. Pero wala sila pagtuguti sang Dios nga makapulos sini kundi ang iban nga tawo. Wala ini sing pulos, kag indi gid maayo.
Mahimo nga ang isa ka tawo madamo gid sing kabataan kag malawig ang iya pagkabuhi, pero bisan malawig ang iya pagkabuhi, kon wala man lang siya sing kalipay sa maayo nga mga butang nga nabaton niya kag wala siya ginlubong sang napatay siya sang napatay siya , mas maayo pa ang bata nga natawo nga patay sang sa iya.
Bisan wala sing pulos ang pagkatawo sang bata, kag bisan nagkadto siya sa lugar sang mga patay
kag bisan wala siya makakita sang kasanag sang adlaw ukon makahibalo sang kabuhi, may kalinong pa siya sang sa ato nga tawo
nga wala sing kalipay sa maayo nga mga butang nga nabaton niya kag bisan magkabuhi pa siya sing puwerte kalawig. Indi bala nga ang tanan pareho lang sing lugar nga padulungan?
Ang tawo nagapangabudlay para may kaunon, pero indi siya gihapon makontento.
Gani ano bala ang bintaha sang maalamon nga tawo sa buang-buang nga tawo? Ano bala nga kaayuhan ang makuha sang imol nga tawo kon kahibalo siya mag-atubang sang kabuhi?
Wala ini sing pulos; daw pareho lang nga nagalagas ka sa hangin. Gani mas maayo pa nga magkontento ka na lang kon ano ang ara sa imo sang sa magsagad ka handom sang iban pa.
Subong nga ang maayo nga reputasyon mas maayo sang sa malahalon nga pahamot, ang adlaw sang pagkapatay mas maayo sang sa adlaw sang pagkatawo.
Indi ka magpamangkot, “Ngaa mas maayo sang una sang sa subong?” Kay indi ina husto nga pamangkot.
Ang kaalam maayo nga butang pareho sa palanublion. Makabulig gid ini sa mga nagakabuhi diri sa kalibutan,
kag makaprotektar ini pareho sa kuwarta. Gani makabulig gid ang kaalam; makatipig ini sa kabuhi sang tawo nga may ara sini.
Hunahunaa bala kon ano ang ginhimo sang Dios. Sin-o bala ang makatadlong sa ginpatiko sang Dios?
Kon maayo ang imo kahimtangan, magkalipay ka. Pero kon ara ka sa kalisod, dumduma nga ang Dios indi lamang nagahatag sang maayo nga kahimtangan kundi sang kalisod man. Gani indi ta mahibaluan kon ano ang matabo sa palaabuton.
Sa sining akon kabuhi nga wala sing pulos, nakita ko ini tanan: ang mga matarong nga nagakalamatay sa pihak sang ila matarong nga kabuhi kag ang mga malain nga nagakabuhi sing malawig sa pihak sang ila malain nga kabuhi.
Indi ka magsobra kaayo ukon kaalam. Kon himuon mo ina, ginaguba mo lang ang imo kaugalingon.
Indi ka man man magsobra kalaot, kag indi ka magbinuang-buang. Kon himuon mo ina, mapatay ka sa wala pa ang imo tion.
Indi ka magpasobra sa sadto nga mga butang; dapat sa tunga-tunga ka lang, kay ang nagatahod sa Dios wala nagapasobra.
Dako ang mahimo sang kaalam sa isa ka tawo sang sa mahimo sang napulo ka pangulo sa isa ka siyudad.
Mas maayo pa nga magkadto sa balay nga may nagapangasubo sa patay sa patay sang sa magkadto sa balay nga may punsyon, kay ang dangatan sang tanan amo ang kamatayon. Dapat dumdumon ini permi sang mga buhi.
Wala gid sing tawo diri sa kalibutan nga nagahimo permi sang matarong kag wala nagakasala.
Indi pagpamatii ang tanan nga ginasiling sang tawo, kay basi kon mabatian mo nga ginapakamalaot ka sang imo suluguon.
Kay nahibaluan mo mismo nga kadamo nga beses nga ginpakamalaot mo man ang iban.
Gintestingan ko nga intiendihon ang tanan nga nagakalatabo diri sa kalibutan paagi sa akon kaalam. Naghunahuna ako nga maintiendihan ko, pero ato gali indi.
Indi ko matungkad ang mga nagakalatabo; mabudlay gid ini intiendihon. Wala gid sing may makaintiendi sini.
Pero padayon ako nga nagtuon kag nag-usisa, para makaangkon ako sang kaalam kag sabat sa akon mga pamangkot, kag para mahibaluan ko kon daw ano gid ka buang-buang ang tawo nga nagahimo sang malain kag daw ano kalain sing ulo ang tawo nga nagabinuang.
Nasapwan ko nga ang babayi nga nagapangtentar mapait pa sang sa kamatayon. Ang iya gugma pareho sa siod, kag ang iya mga kamot nga nagahakos sa imo pareho sa kadena. Makapalagyo sa iya ang tawo nga maayo sa panulok sang Dios, pero ang makasasala iya masiod niya.
Labaw sa tanan, nasapwan ko nga ginhimo sang Dios ang tawo nga matarong pero madamo sang ginapadihot ang tawo nga indi matarong nga indi matarong .”
Ang kasubo mas maayo pa sang sa kalipay tungod kay ang kasubo makapatadlong sa kabuhi sang tawo.
Ang maalamon nga tawo nagahunahuna permi parte sa kamatayon, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo nagahunahuna permi parte sa kalipayan.
Mas maayo pa nga magpamati ka sa pagsaway sa imo sang maalamon nga tawo sang sa magpamati ka sa pagdayaw sa imo sang buang-buang nga tawo.
Ang kadlaw sang buang-buang nga tawo pareho sa mga tunok nga nagabitibiti sa kalayo. Wala ini sing pulos.
Sigurado nga mangin pareho sa buang-buang ang maalamon nga tawo kon magpanguwarta
Mas maayo pa ang katapusan sang isa ka butang sang sa umpisa sini. Ang pagpasensya mas maayo pa sang sa pagpabugal.
Indi ka magdali-dali pangakig, kay ang kaakig amo ang kinaandan nga ginahimo sang buang-buang nga tawo.
Wala sing may makapareho sa maalamon nga tawo, nga nakahibalo magpaathag sang mga butang. Ang kaalam sang tawo nagapanayanaya sa iya guya, kag nagakuha sang iya pagkurisong.
Nakita ko man ang mga malain nga ginlubong. Ini sila permi nagasulod sadto sa balaan nga siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem nga sa diin naghimo sila sang kalautan. Kag sa sini mismo nga lugar ginadayaw
Kon indi dayon masentensyahan ang tawo nga nakasala, nagahunahuna ang iban sa paghimo sang malain.
Bisan makasala ang tawo sing madamo gid,
kag malain ang dangatan sang malain nga tawo nga wala nagatahod sa Dios, kag indi maglawig ang iya kabuhi kundi mangin pareho ini sa landong nga dali lang madula.
Ang problema lang diri sa kalibutan, kon kaisa ang matarong nga mga tawo amo ang nagabaton sang silot nga para kuntani sa mga malain, kag ang malain nga mga tawo amo ang nagabaton sang padya nga para kuntani sa mga matarong. Makasiling ako nga wala man ini sing pulos.
Gani para sa akon, mas maayo pa sa tawo nga magkalipay siya sa iya kabuhi. Wala sing iban nga maayo sa iya diri sa kalibutan kundi ang magkaon, mag-inom kag magkalipay samtang nagatrabaho siya sa bilog niya nga kabuhi nga ginhatag sang Dios sa iya diri sa kalibutan.
Adlaw-gab-i wala ako nagatulog sa pagpaninguha nga makaangkon sang kaalam para maintiendihan ko ang mga nagakalatabo sa kalibutan.
Nakita ko ang tanan nga ginahimo sang Dios diri sa kalibutan, kag wala gid sing tawo nga makaintiendi sini. Bisan ano pa ang pagpaninguha sang tawo nga intiendihon ini, indi niya maintiendihan. Bisan magsiling pa ang maalamon nga tawo nga naintiendihan niya, ang matuod indi gid niya maintiendihan.
Tumana ang sugo sang hari tungod nga ginpromisa mo sa Dios nga himuon mo ini.
Indi pagpabay-i ang imo katungdanan sa hari, kag indi ka mag-upod sa mga nagaplano sing malain kontra sa iya,
May awtoridad ang mga sugo sang hari, kag wala sing may makapamatok sini.
Indi maano ang bisan sin-o nga nagatuman sini. Ang maalamon nga tawo nakahibalo kon san-o kag paano niya himuon ang isa ka butang.
Kay ang tagsa ka butang may husto nga tion kag pamaagi sa paghimo sini sa pihak sang madamo nga kalisod nga ginaatubang sang tawo.
Tungod nga wala sing tawo nga nakahibalo sang palaabuton, wala sing may makasugid sa kay bisan sin-o kon ano ang matabo.
Subong nga indi mapunggan sang tawo ang hangin,
Nakita ko ini tanan samtang ginahunahuna ko ang parte sa mga butang nga ginahimo diri sa kalibutan, pareho kon ang isa ka tawo may gahom sa paghalit sang iya isigkatawo.
Ginpamalandungan ko gid ato tanan nga butang kag nareyalisar ko nga ara sa pagbuot sang Dios ang ginahimo sang matarong kag maalamon nga tawo. Pero wala nakahibalo ang ini nga tawo kon gugma ukon kaugot ang nagahulat sa iya.
Himua ang bisan ano nga imo ginahimo sa imo masarangan, kay didto sa lugar sang mga patay, nga sa diin ikaw nagapakadto, wala na sing trabaho. Wala na man sing pagplano didto, kag wala man sing kaalam ukon ihibalo.
May nakita pa gid ako diri sa kalibutan: Indi tanan nga madasig magdalagan nagadaog sa palumba, kag indi tanan nga makusog nagadaog sa inaway. Indi tanan nga maalamon makakita sang palangabuhian, indi tanan nga maalam nagamanggaranon, kag indi tanan nga may abilidad ginapaboran. Kay nagaabot sa tagsa ka tawo ang iya kapalaran.
Indi lang ina, kundi wala man siya nakahibalo kon san-o magaabot ang iya tion.
Nakita ko man diri sa kalibutan ang isa ka halimbawa sang kaalam nga nanamian ko gid:
May isa ka gamay nga siyudad, kag gamay lang ang mga pumuluyo sini. Ginpalibutan ini sang isa ka gamhanan nga hari kaupod ang iya mga soldado kaupod ang iya mga soldado . Naghimo sila sang dalagko nga pangwasak sa pader, kag dayon ginsalakay nila ang siyudad.
Didto sa amo nga siyudad may isa ka tawo nga imol pero maalamon, nga sarang kuntani makaluwas sa sini nga siyudad paagi sa iya kaalam. Pero wala gid sing may nakadumdom sa iya.
Nagsiling ako nga mas maayo pa ang kaalam sang sa kusog, pero ang kaalam sang imol nga tawo wala ginahatagan sang importansya kag wala sing may nagasapak sa iya ginahambal.
Mas maayo pa nga magpamati sa hinay nga hambal sang maalamon nga tawo sang sa magpamati sa singgit sang buang-buang nga pangulo.
Ang kaalam mas maayo pa sang sa mga armas sa inaway. Pero ang isa ka makasasala makaguba sa madamo nga kaayuhan.
Pareho lang ang dangatan sang tanan nga klase sang tawo—ang matarong kag ang malaot, ang maayo kag ang malain,
Amo ini ang indi maayo sa tanan nga nagakalatabo sa kalibutan: pareho lang ang dangatan sang tanan. Indi lang ina, kundi puro lang kalautan kag kabuangan ang ginahunahuna sang tawo samtang nagakabuhi siya; kag sa ulihi mapatay man siya.
Subong nga ang buhi nga ido mas maayo sang sa patay nga leon, ang buhi nga tawo mas maayo sang sa patay nga tawo ang buhi nga tawo mas maayo sang sa patay nga tawo . Kay ang buhi may paglaom pa,
kag nahibaluan niya nga mapatay siya. Pero ang patay wala sing may nahibaluan kag wala na siya sing balos pa nga batunon, kag nalimtan na siya.
Ang iya gugma, kaugot kag kaimon nadula na. Wala na siya sing labot hasta san-o sa tanan nga nagakalatabo diri sa kalibutan.
Sige, magkaon ka kag mag-inom sang bino nga may kalipay, kay ginbuot na sang Dios sang una pa nga himuon mo ini.
Magmasinadyahon kag magmalipayon ka permi.
Magpangalipay ka upod sa imo hinigugma nga asawa sa bilog mo nga kabuhi nga wala sing pulos, nga ginhatag sang Dios sa imo diri sa kalibutan. Kay para ina sa imo, sa imo pagpangabudlay diri sa kalibutan.
Subong nga ang patay nga mga langaw makapabaho sa pahamot, ang gamay nga kabuangan makaguba sa kaalam kag dungog.
Kon mahabol ang imo wasay kag wala mo ini ginabaid, magpangusog ka gid sing tudo sa paggamit sini. Bintaha kon maalamon ka kay paagi sini magmadinalag-on ka.
Wala sing pulos ang abilidad mo sa pag-anta sang man-og kon makagat ka man lang niya.
Ang mga ginahambal sang maalamon nga tawo makahatag sa iya sang kaayuhan, pero ang mga ginahambal sang buang-buang nga tawo makalaglag sa iya.
Sa umpisa pa lang kabuangan na ang iya mga ginahambal, kag sa ulihi malain na gid, nga daw wala na siya sa iya kaugalingon.
Wala gid sing may nakahibalo sang palaabuton, kag wala sing may makasugid sa aton kon ano ang matabo sa tapos kita mapatay.
Ginakapoy ang buang-buang sa iya trabaho, gani nagahunahuna siya nga indi na lang siya magkadto sa banwa sa pagtrabaho sa pagtrabaho .
Kaluluoy ang nasyon nga ang hari sini ulipon sadto anay, kag ang mga pangulo sini nagapunsyon lang sa bilog nga adlaw.
Pero Pero bulahan ang nasyon nga ang hari sini natawo sa dungganon nga pamilya kag ang mga pangulo sini nagapunsyon sa husto nga tion nga may pagpugong sa ila kaugalingon kag wala sila nagapahubog.
Kon tamad ang isa ka tawo sa pagkay-o sang atop sang iya balay, magatulo ini kag marumpag.
Ang pagkinaon kag pag-ininom makahatag sing kalipay sa tawo; kag ang kuwarta makahatag sang tanan niya nga kinahanglanon.
Ang maalamon nga tawo gusto maghimo sang maayo, pero ang buang-buang nga tawo gusto maghimo sang malain.
Indi pagpakamalauta ang hari bisan sa hunahuna mo lang, ukon ang manggaranon bisan sa tago lang, kay basi kon may makasugid sini sa ila.
Bisan sa paglakat sang buang-buang makita nga wala siya sing pag-intiendi. Ginapakita gid niya sa tanan ang iya pagkabuang-buang.
Kon akig sa imo ang isa ka manugdumala indi pagbayai ang imo katungdanan. Kay kon madula na ang iya kaakig basi pa lang patawaron ka niya bisan dako pa nga sala ang imo nahimo.
May isa pa ka indi maayo nga butang nga nakita ko diri sa kalibutan, kag ini ginahimo sang mga pangulo:
Ang mga buang-buang ginahatagan sang mataas nga posisyon, pero ang mga manggaranon
Nakita ko man nga ang mga ulipon nagasakay sa kabayo samtang ang dungganon nga mga tawo nagalakat lang pareho sa mga ulipon.
Kon magkutkot ka sang buho, basi kon mahulog ka. Kon maglusot ka sa buho sang buho sang pader, basi kon kadton ka sang man-og.
Kon maglukat ka sang bato ukon magbial sang kahoy, basi kon mapilas ka.
Inegosyo ang imo kuwarta kay sa ulihi may maganansya ka.
Indi ka magpalibog ukon magkalisod kay ang pagkabataon umalagi lang.
Ibutang ang imo kuwarta sa nagkalain-lain
Kon ang gal-om madamol na, nagaulan. Kag kon diin matumba ang kahoy, didto ini nagapabilin.
Kon ang panahon lang ang imo ginabantayan, indi ka gid makatanom kag wala ka sing patubas.
Subong nga indi mo mahibaluan kon paano nagasugod ang kabuhi sang bata
Magtanom ka sa bilog nga adlaw, kay wala ka kahibalo kon ang tanan magatubo sing maayo ukon ang iban lang.
Maayo gid kon buhi ka pa.
Bisan ano man kalawig ang imo kabuhi, magkalipay ka sa bilog mo nga kabuhi. Dumdumon mo nga ang kamatayon magaabot kag magadugay ini. Wala sing pulos ang tanan nga matabo sa palaabuton.
Ikaw nga pamatan-on, magkalipay ka sa imo kabuhi samtang bataon ka pa. Himua ang gusto mo nga himuon, pero dumdumon mo nga pagahukman ka sang Dios sa tanan mo nga ginahimo.
Dumduma ang imo Manunuga samtang bataon ka pa, sa wala pa mag-abot ang mga tion sang kalisod nga magasiling ka, “Wala ako nalipay sa akon kabuhi.”
Gintinguhaan niya nga magamit ang ensakto nga mga pulong, kag ang iya mga ginsulat diri husto kag matuod.
Ang mga pulong sang maalamon nga tawo pareho sa taliwis nga baston nga ginagamit sa pagtuytoy sa mga sapat, kag pareho man ini sang lansang nga nagadulot sing maayo. Ginhatag ini sang isa ka Manugbantay.
Anak, mag-andam ka sa sining isa pa ka butang: Ang pagsulat sang mga libro wala sing katapusan, kag ang sobra nga pagtuon makapakapoy sa imo.
Karon nga nabasahan
Kay hukman sang Dios ang tanan ta nga ginahimo, maayo man ukon malain, pati ang mga ginahimo ta sa tago.
Dumduma siya Dumduma siya sa wala pa magdulom sa imo ang kasanag sang adlaw, bulan kag mga bituon, kag sa wala pa magdulom sa imo ang imo palibot nga daw sa nadulman permi sang gal-om.
Magaabot ang adlaw nga ang imo mga butkon
Ang imo mga dulunggan
Mahadlok ka na magsaka sa mataas nga lugar ukon maglakat-lakat sa karsada. Magaputi na ang imo mga buhok kag madula ang imo kapagros kag mga handom. Sa ulihi magakadto ka sa lugar nga imo puy-an hasta san-o, kag madamo ang magapangasubo para sa imo sa mga karsada.
Gani dumduma ang Dios sa wala ka pa mapatay, Gani dumduma ang Dios sa wala ka pa mapatay, sa wala pa mabugto ang kadena nga pilak kag mabuka ang suludlan nga bulawan, ukon sa wala pa mabugto ang higot sang tibod nga ginatimba sa bubon, kag mawasak ang tibod.
Magabalik ka sa duta nga amo ang imo ginhalinan, kag ang imo espiritu
Ako nga manugwali
Wala labot nga maalamon ang amo nga manugwali, ginatudluan man niya ang mga tawo parte sa iya nahibaluan. Gintun-an niya sing maayo ang madamo nga hulubaton nga iya ginplastar diri.
Ang pinakamatahom nga kanta ni Solomon.
Kaguwapa sang imo hitsura, nga ginpaanyag pa gid sang imo mga aritos. Katahom sang imo liog nga may kulintas.
Himuan ka namon sang aritos nga bulawan nga may tampok nga pilak.
Nagahilay ang hari sa iya sofa, kag napanimahuan niya ang akon pahamot.
Ang akon hinigugma mahamot pareho sa mira samtang nagaulon siya sa akon dughan.
Pareho siya sa pinungpong nga mga bulak nga henna, nga nagapamukadkad sa mga talamnan sang ubas sa En Gedi.
Daw ano gid kaguwapa sa imo, palangga ko. Mapungay ang imo mga mata pareho sa mata sang mata sang mga pating.
Daw ano gid ka guwapo sa imo, palangga ko. Makawiwili ka gid samtang nagahigda kita sa malagtom nga hilamon
nga ginahandungan sang mga kahoy nga sedro kag sipres.
Paligui ako sang mga halok, kay ang imo gugma mas matam-is pa sang sa manamit nga manamit nga ilimnon.
Mahamot gid ang imo mga pahamot, kag daw ano kanami sang imo ngalan. Indi makatilingala nga ang mga dalaga naluyag sa imo.
Dapat lang nga maluyag sila sa imo!
Mga babayi sang Jerusalem, maitom ako pareho sa mga tolda sa Kedar, pero guwapa ako pareho sa mga kurtina sa palasyo sa palasyo ni Solomon.
Indi ninyo paghikayi
Sugiri ako, palangga ko, sa diin mo bala pahalbon ang imo mga karnero? Sa diin mo bala sila papahuwayon sa udto? Sugiri ako Sugiri ako para indi na ako magpangita pa sa imo didto sa imo mga abyan nga nagapahalab man sang mga karnero. Kay basi masal-an pa nila ako nga isa ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.
Kon wala ka kahibalo, O pinakaguwapa nga babayi, sunda ang agi sang akon akon mga karnero pakadto sa mga tolda sang mga manugbantay sang mga karnero, kag didto pahalba ang imo mga kanding.
O palangga ko, pareho ka sa babayi nga kabayo nga nagustuhan sang lalaki nga kabayo nga nagaguyod nga nagustuhan sang lalaki nga kabayo nga nagaguyod sang karwahe sang hari sang Egypt.
Daw bulak ako sang Sharon kag daw lily sa mga kapatagan.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Dali na, palangga ko. Upod ka sa akon, O guwapa ko nga nobya.
Tapos na ang tigtulugnaw kag ang tingulan.
Nagapamukadkad na ang mga bulak sa latagon, kag tion na ini sang pagkanta. Mabatian na ang huni sang mga pating sa kaumahan.
Pareho ka sang pating nga nagapanago sa guhab sang banglid. Ipakita sa akon ang imo guwapa nga hitsura kag ipabati sa akon ang imo malulo nga tingog.
Dali! Dakpa ang magagmay nga mga fox nga nagaguba sang amon mga talamnan sang ubas nga nagapamukadkad.
Akon lang ang akon hinigugma, kag ako iya lang. Ginapahalab niya ang iya kasapatan ang iya kasapatan sa may mga lily.
Sa wala pa magsanag sa kaagahon kag wala pa madula ang kadulom, magbalik ka sa akon sa akon , palangga ko. Magbalik ka Magbalik ka nga daw pareho kadasig kadasig sang usa sa nalupyakan sang duha ka bukid.
Huo, Huo, kon ikomparar sa iban nga mga babayi, ang akon palangga pareho sa lily sa tunga sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy.
Kon ikomparar sa iban nga bataon nga mga lalaki, ang akon hinigugma pareho sa puno sang mansanas sa tunga sang mga kahoy sa kagulangan. Nanamian ako magpasilong sa iya handong kag matam-is ang iya bunga.
Gindala niya ako sa punsyon para makita sang tanan kon daw ano ang iya paghigugma sa akon.
Pabaskuga ninyo ako sang mga pasas kag mga mansanas, kay nagapalangluya ako tungod sa gugma.
Ang iya wala nga kamot akon ginaunlan, kag ang iya tuo nagahakos sa akon.
Kamo nga mga babayi sang Jerusalem, magsumpa kamo paagi sa mga usa kag mga gasela nga indi ninyo pagpukawon ang gugma sa wala pa ang husto nga tion.
Nabatian ko ang tingog sang akon hinigugma. Nagapadulong siya nga nagalukso-lukso sa kabukiran
pareho sa usa. Tan-awa, ara siya sa guwa sa guwa nga nagatindog sa kilid sang amon dingding kag nagalingling sa akon sa bintana.
Sa gab-i, samtang nagahigda ako, ginkahidlawan ko ang akon hinigugma. Nahidlaw ako sa iya, pero wala siya.
Ang mga hulohaligi sini nahaklapan sang pilak kag ang tabon sini ginbordahan sang bulawan. Ang kotson sang pulungkuan naputos sang tela nga granate.
Guwa kamo mga babayi sang Jerusalem,
Gani nagbangon ako kag ginlibot ko ang siyudad, ang mga dalan, kag mga plasa. Ginpangita ko ang akon hinigugma pero wala ko siya makita.
Nakita ako sang mga guwardya samtang nagaronda sila sa siyudad. Ginpamangkot ko sila, Ginpamangkot ko sila, “Nakita bala ninyo ang akon hinigugma?”
Wala lang dugay sang maghalin ako sa mga guwardya, nakita ko ang akon hinigugma. Ginhakos ko siya sing tudo, kag wala ko na siya ginbuy-an hasta nga nadala ko siya sa balay sang akon iloy, didto sa kuwarto nga sa diin ako ginbusong.
Sin-o bala ining nagapadulong halin sa kamingawan nga daw sa madamol nga aso nga may kahamot sang mira kag insenso—mga pahamot nga ginabaligya sang negosyante?
Ina ang karwahe ni Solomon nga ginalibutan sang 60 ka pinakamaayo nga mga soldado sang Israel.
Nagataklos sila tanan sang espada, kag eksperiensyado sila sa inaway. Preparado sila kon may magsalakay, bisan sa kagab-ihon.
Ini nga karwahe nga ginpahimo ni Haring Solomon hinimo halin sa mga kahoy nga halin sa Lebanon.
Daw ano kaguwapa sa imo, palangga ko. Ang imo mga mata nga natabunan sang imo belo daw pareho sa mata sang mata sang pating. Ang imo buhok daw pareho sa panong sang mga kanding nga nagapadulhog halin sa Bukid sang Gilead.
Daw ano katam-is sang imo paghigugma, palangga ko nga nobya. Mas matam-is pa ini sang sa manamit nga manamit nga ilimnon. Ang imo pahamot mas mahamot pa sang sa bisan ano nga klase sang pahamot.
Daw honey katam-is sang imo mga halok, nobya ko. Huo, Huo, ang imo dila daw may honey kag gatas. Ang kahamot sang imo bayo daw pareho kahamot sang kahoy nga sedro sang kahoy nga sedro sang Lebanon.
O palangga ko nga nobya, daw pareho ka sa ginsiradhan nga katamnan nga may tuburan.
Nagapamunga ini sang mga pomegranata kag iban pa nga maayo nga mga bunga. Bugana ini sang mga pahamot nga Bugana ini sang mga pahamot nga henna, nardo,
asapran, kalamo, sinamon, nagkalain-lain nga klase sang insenso, mira, aloe, kag iban pa nga malahalon nga mga pahamot.
Huo, Huo, daw pareho ka sa katamnan nga may tuburan nga nagailig halin sa mga kabukiran sang mga kabukiran sang Lebanon.
Kamo nga south kag north nga hangin, maghuyop kamo sa akon katamnan para maglapta ang kahamot sini. Pakadtua ang akon hinigugma sa iya katamnan kag magkaon sang pinakamaayo nga mga bunga sini.
Ang imo mga ngipon daw pareho kaputi kaputi sa karnero nga bag-o lang naguntingan kag napaliguan. Kompleto ini kag maayo ang pagkaplastar.
Ang imo bibig daw pareho sa mapula nga laso. Daw ano ini katahom. Ang imo guya nga natabunan sang belo daw pareho sa prutas nga prutas nga pomegranata nga mapula-pula nga mapula-pula .
Ang imo liog daw pareho sa tore ni David nga ginpatindog sing matahom. May kulintas ini nga daw sa linibo ka taming sang mga soldado.
Ang imo duha ka titi daw pareho sa kapid nga bata sang usa nga nagahalab sa may mga lily.
Sa wala pa magsanag sa kaagahon kag wala pa madula ang kadulom, magapabilin ako sa imo dughan nga daw sa imo dughan nga daw sa mga bukid nga mahamot sang mira kag insenso.
Daw ano kaguwapa sa imo, palangga ko. Wala ka gid sang deperensya.
Upod ka sa akon halin sa Lebanon, nobya ko. Madulhog kita halin sa putokputokan sang mga bukid sang mga bukid sang Amana, Senir, kag Hermon, nga ginaestaran sang mga leon kag mga leopard.
O palangga ko nga nobya, ginbihag mo ang akon tagipusuon sa isa mo lang ka pagtulok kag sa isa lang ka bato sang imo kulintas.
Kamo nga nagahigugmaanay, magkaon kamo kag mag-inom.
Guwapo kag mapula-pula ang akon hinigugma. Isa lang siya sa mga napulo ka libo.
Mas bilidhon pa ang iya ulo sang sa bulawan. Kulong-kulongon ang iya buhok kag daw pareho kaitom sa uwak.
Ang iya mata daw pareho katahom katahom sa mata sang mata sang pating nga daw gatas kaputi kaputi , nga ara sa higad sang suba. Kag pareho man ini katahom sa malahalon nga mga bato.
Ang iya guya mahamot pareho sa katamnan nga puno sang mga tanom nga ginahimo nga pahamot. Ang iya mga bibig daw pareho sa mga lily nga nagailig ang mira.
Ang iya mga butkon daw kabilya nga bulawan nga may malahalon nga mga bato. Ang iya lawas daw pareho sa ginpahining nga bangkil sang elepante nga nadekorasyunan sang mga bato nga bato nga sapiro.
Ang iya mga paa daw pareho sa mga haligi nga marmol nga nagatindog sa pundasyon nga puro bulawan. Katahom sa iya tan-awon, pareho sa mga kahoy nga sedro sa Lebanon.
Manami halukan ang iya bibig, kag guwapo gid siya katama. Siya ang akon hinigugma, O mga babayi sang Jerusalem. Siya ang akon amigo.
Samtang nagakatulog ako nagdamgo ako. Nabatian ko nga nagapanuktok ang akon hinigugma. Nagsiling siya, “Buksi ako, O palangga ko nga guwapa gid. Kay basa na ang akon ulo sang tun-og.”
Pero nagsiling ako, Pero nagsiling ako, “Nauba ko na ang akon bayo, sul-ubon ko pa bala ini liwat? Nakapanghinaw na ako sang akon tiil, higkuan ko pa bala ini liwat?”
Ginkuot sang akon hinigugma ang trangka sang puwertahan sang puwertahan , kag daw maano ako sa kalipay.
Nagbangon ako sa pagpasulod sa iya. Kag sang gin-uyatan ko ang pintal sang puwertahan, nagtulo sa akon kamot ang mira.
Ginbuksan ko ang akon hinigugma, pero wala na siya. Gusto ko gid mabatian ang iya tingog. Gani gintawag ko siya, pero wala siya magsabat. Ginpangita ko siya, pero wala ko siya makita.
Nakita ako sang mga guwardya samtang nagaronda sila sa siyudad. Ginlampusan nila ako, kag napilasan ako. Ginkuha
Kamo nga mga babayi sang Jerusalem, magsumpa kamo nga kon makita ninyo ang akon hinigugma sugiri ninyo siya nga nagapalangluya ako tungod sa gugma.
O pinakaguwapa nga babayi, ano gid bala ang maayo sa imo hinigugma nga ginapasumpa mo gid kami? Mas maayo gid bala siya sang sa iban?
O pinakaguwapa nga babayi, diin na bala ang imo hinigugma? Sa diin bala siya nagkadto kay buligan ka namon sa pagpangita sa iya?
Nagasiling sila, Nagasiling sila, “Sin-o bala ini nga kon tan-awon daw pareho sa kaagahon ang iya katahom? Ang iya katahom daw pareho sa bulan, kag ang iya kaanyag daw pareho sa adlaw. Makakulunyag gid siya pareho sa mga bituon.”
Nagdulhog ako sa talamnan sang kahoy nga almendro sa pagtan-aw sang bag-o nga mga tanom nga nagtubo sa may ililigan sang tubig, kag sa pagtan-aw kon nagpanalingsing na ang mga ubas kag kon nagpamulak na ang mga pomegranata.
Wala ko matalupangdan nga ara na gali ako sa harianon nga hiligdaan kaupod sang akon pinalangga.
Ngaa gusto gid ninyo makita ang dalaga sang Shulam nga nagasaot sa tunga sang mga tumalan-aw?
Nagkadto ang akon hinigugma sa iya katamnan, nga puno sang mga tanom nga ginahimo nga pahamot. Nagapahalab siya didto sang iya kasapatan sang iya kasapatan , kag nagatipon sang mga lily.
Katahom sa imo, palangga ko. Daw pareho ka katahom sang siyudad sang siyudad sang Tirza kag sang Jerusalem. Nagakatingala ako sa imo katahom pareho sa mga soldado nga may mga bandera.
Indi ako pagtuluka kay daw maano ako sa imo. Ang imo buhok daw pareho sa panong sang mga kanding nga nagapadulhog halin sa Bukid sang Bukid sang Gilead.
Ang imo mga ngipon daw pareho kaputi kaputi sa karnero nga bag-o lang napaliguan. Kompleto ini kag maayo ang pagkaplastar.
Ang imo guya nga natabunan sang belo daw pareho sa prutas nga prutas nga pomegranata nga mapula-pula nga mapula-pula .
Bisan may ara pa ako sang 60 ka asawa nga mga rayna, 80 ka ordinaryo nga mga asawa, kag madamo nga dalaga nga ipakasal sa akon nga ipakasal sa akon ,
isa lang gid ang akon palangga. Matahom gid siya kag wala gid sing deperensya. Isa lang siya nga anak nga babayi sang iya iloy kag paborito siya sang iya iloy. Kon makita siya sang mga babayi ginapadunggan nila siya, kag bisan ang mga rayna kag mga asawa nagadayaw sa iya.
O babayi nga dungganon, daw ano katahom sang imo mga tiil nga may sandalyas. Maayo gid ang korte sang imo mga paa. Daw pareho ini sa mga alahas nga ginhimo sang eksperto nga manug-obra.
Iya ako sang akon hinigugma kag ako lang ang iya ginahandom.
Dali, palangga ko, makadto kita sa uma, kag didto kita matulog sa may mga bulak nga henna.
Aga pa kita mabangon kag magkadto sa talamnan sang ubas, kag tan-awon ta kon nagapamukol kag nagapamukadkad na ang ubas. Tan-awon ta man kon nagapamulak na ang pomegranata. Kag didto ipabatyag ko sa imo ang akon gugma.
Mapanimahuan ang kahamot sang tanom nga tanom nga mandragora, kag malapit sa aton puwertahan ara ang tanan nga maayo nga mga prutas, ang daan kag ang bag-o. Kay gintigana ko ini sa imo, palangga ko.
Ang imo pusod daw pareho sa kupa nga wala nagakawad-an sang manamit nga bino. Ang imo hawak daw pareho sa binugkos nga trigo nga napalibutan sang mga lily.
Ang imo duha ka titi daw pareho sa kapid nga bata sang usa.
Ang imo liog daw pareho sa tore nga hinimo halin sa mga bangkil sang elepante. Ang imo mga mata daw pareho katin-aw katin-aw sa palaligusan sang Heshbon, sa may puwertahan sang Bat Rabim. Ang imo ilong daw pareho katahom katahom sa tore sang Lebanon nga nagaatubang sa Damascus.
Ang imo ulo daw pareho katahom katahom sa Bukid sang Carmel. Ang imo buhok daw pareho kahining kahining sa harianon nga panapton nga granate. Nabihag ang hari sa katahom sini.
Daw ano kaguwapa sa imo, palangga ko, daw ano ka kamakawiwili.
Ang imo tindog daw pareho sa kahoy nga palma, kag ang imo mga titi daw pareho sa pinungpong nga bunga sini.
Nagsiling ako, “Masaka ako sa palma kag magauyat sa iya mga bunga.” O, ang imo mga titi daw pareho sa pinungpong nga ubas kag ang kahamot sang imo ginhawa daw pareho sa mansanas.
Ang imo halok pareho katam-is sa pinakamaayo nga bino. Ini nga bino nagailig sing hinay-hinay sa mga bibig kag ngipon sang akon hinigugma.
Kon utod ko lang kuntani ikaw nga ginpatiti sang akon iloy, halukan ko ikaw bisan diin nga lugar kag wala sing may magmalisya sa akon.
Birhen ako kag ang akon titi daw pareho sa mga tore. Kag kontento ang akon nobyo sa akon.
May talamnan sang ubas si Solomon sa Baal Hamon nga ginpaarkilahan niya sa mga mangunguma didto. Ang kada isa sa ila nagahatag kay Solomon sang 1,000 ka bilog nga pilak bilang iya parte halin sa produkto sang talamnan.
Pagusto ka, Solomon, kon ang imo parte 1,000 ka bilog nga pilak kag ang parte sang mga mangunguma 200 ka bilog nga pilak. Pero pagusto ako sang akon talamnan.
Pabatia ako sang imo tingog, palangga ko, palangga ko, subong nga nagapamati sang imo tingog ang imo mga abyan samtang nagalagaw-lagaw kamo sa hardin.
Magdali-dali ka diri sa akon diri sa akon , palangga ko, nga daw pareho kadasig kadasig sang usa nga nagalukso-lukso nga nagalukso-lukso sa mga bukid nga puno sang mga tanom nga ginahimo nga pahamot.
Dal-on ko ikaw sa balay sang akon iloy, kag didto tudluan mo ako sang gugma sang gugma . Paimnon ko ikaw sang mahamot nga bino nga halin sa duga sang akon prutas nga prutas nga pomegranata.
Unlan ko ang imo wala nga kamot kag ang imo tuo ihakos sa akon.
Kamo nga mga babayi sang Jerusalem, magsumpa kamo nga indi ninyo pagpukawon ang gugma sa wala pa ang husto nga tion.
Ginpukaw ko ang imo balatyagon sa idalom sang puno sang mansanas, nga sa diin ka natawo.
Ako lang ang higugmaon sang imo tagipusuon, kag ako lang ang hakson sang imo mga butkon. Kay ang gugma pareho kagamhanan sa kamatayon; ang mainit nga balatyagon indi mapunggan pareho sa pag-abot sang kamatayon. Ang gugma daw pareho sa nagadabadaba kag nagaibwal nga kalayo.
Indi ini mapatay bisan sang madamo nga tubig. Bisan bahaan pa, indi gihapon ini mapatay. Indi ini mabakal bisan ibayad pa sang tawo ang tanan niya nga manggad.
May utod kami nga babayi nga bataon pa kag gamay pa ang iya titi. Kon may magpangaluyag sa iya ano ang amon himuon?
Birhen man siya ukon indi, protektaran namon siya.
Ini nga libro parte sa ginpahayag sang Dios sang Dios kay Isaias nga anak ni Amoz. Ini parte sa Juda kag Jerusalem sadtong panahon nga naghari sa Juda si Uzia, dayon dayon si Jotam, si Ahaz, kag si Hezekia.
Kamo nga mga manugdumala kag mga katawhan sang Jerusalem, nga pareho sa mga taga- Jerusalem, nga pareho sa mga taga- Sodom kag Gomora, pamatii ninyo ang mensahi ukon kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios.
Nagasiling siya, “Baliwala sa akon ang madamo ninyo nga mga halad. Natak-an na ako sang inyo mga halad nga ginasunog— ang mga karnero kag ang tambok sang mga sapat nga inyo ginpatambok. Wala ako nalipay sa dugo sang mga turo nga baka, mga karnero, kag mga kanding.
Sin-o bala ang nagsugo sa inyo nga dal-on ninyo ini tanan tanan kon magsimba kamo sa akon? Sin-o bala ang nagsugo sa inyo nga maglapak sa akon templo?
Mag-untat na kamo sa pagdala sang mga halad nga wala sing pulos. Ginakangil-aran ko ang inyo insenso. Indi ko na maagwanta ang inyo mga pagtilipon kon Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan kag kon Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kay bisan nagatipon kamo nagahimo kamo sang kalainan.
Ginakaugtan ko ang inyo mga Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan kag iban pa ninyo nga natalana nga mga piesta. Nangin pabug-at ini sa akon; indi ko ini maagwanta.
“Kon magpangamuyo kamo indi ako magsapak sa inyo. Indi ako mamati bisan makapila pa kamo magpangamuyo, tungod kay madamo kamo sang ginpamatay nga tawo.
Magpakatinlo kamo! Mag-untat na kamo sa paghimo sang malain sa akon atubangan.
Magtuon kamo sa paghimo sang maayo, kag paluntara ninyo ang hustisya. Sabdunga ninyo ang mga nagapangdaogdaog,
Nagasiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Dali kamo, husayon ta ini. Bisan ano kahigko sang inyo mga sala, limpyuhan ko ina para mangin matinlo kamo.
Kon magtuman lang kamo sa akon sa akon , pakamaayuhon ko gid kamo.
Pamati, langit kag duta, kay nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ginsagod ko kag ginpadako ang mga Israelinhon nga akon mga Israelinhon nga akon mga anak, pero nagbato sila sa akon.
Pero kon magsupak kamo kag magrebelde, sigurado gid nga magkalamatay kamo. Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Tan-awa bala ninyo ang siyudad sang Jerusalem. Sadto anay sang Jerusalem. Sadto anay matutom, pero subong pero subong pareho na sa babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas. Sang una Sang una matarong nga mga tawo ang nagaestar dira, pero subong mga manugpatay.
Jerusalem, sang una malahalon Jerusalem, sang una malahalon ka pareho sa pilak, pero subong pero subong wala na sing pulos. Sadto anay Sadto anay pareho ka sang puro nga puro nga bino, pero subong pero subong nasimbugan na sang tubig.
Ang imo mga pangulo mga rebelde kag kaupod sang mga makawat. Gusto nila permi nga may lagay, kag nagapangayo sila sang mga regalo. Wala nila ginadepensahan ang kinamatarong sang mga ilo kag wala nila ginapamatian ang reklamo sang mga balo nga babayi.
Gani nagasiling ang Ginoo, ang Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo sang Israel: “Magabalos ako sa inyo nga mga taga-Jerusalem, nga mga taga-Jerusalem, nga akon mga kaaway, para indi na ako matublag sa inyo ginahimo.
Silutan ko kamo para malimpyuhan kamo, pareho sa pilak nga ginapapuraw sa kalayo.
Hatagan ko kamo liwat sang mga pangulo kag mga manuglaygay nga pareho sang una. Kag sa ulihi ang inyo siyudad pagatawgon nga siyudad sang mga matarong kag matutom nga mga tawo.”
Paagi sa matarong nga paghukom sang Dios sang Dios , luwason niya niya ang Jerusalem
Pero pagalaglagon niya ang mga malinapason kag mga makasasala, nga nagasikway sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Mahuy-an kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem nga mga taga-Jerusalem tungod sa inyo pagsimba sa mga kahoy nga terebinto kag sa mga pinili ninyo nga mga katamnan.
Bisan gani ang mga baka nakakilala sang ila amo, ang mga donkey nakatultol sang ginapakan-an sa ila sang ila amo, pero ang Israel nga akon katawhan wala nakakilala sa akon.”
Mangin pareho kamo sa kahoy nga terebinto nga nagakalaya, kag sa katamnan nga wala mabunyagi.
Ang mga gamhanan sa inyo mangin pareho sa mamala nga kahoy nga madali lang masunog, kag ang ila malain nga malain nga mga binuhatan mangin pareho sa igrab nga amo ang magasunog sa ila, kag wala sing may makapauntat sina nga kalayo.
Kaluluoy ining makasasala nga nasyon, katawhan nga puno sang kalautan, kaliwat sang mga manughimo sang malain kag manughalit. Ginsikway nila kag ginyaguta ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Balaan nga Dios nga Dios sang Israel, kag nagtalikod sila sa iya.
Mga taga-Israel, Mga taga-Israel, ngaa nagapadayon kamo sa pagrebelde? Gusto pa bala ninyo nga silutan? Pareho kamo sa tawo nga ang iya ulo puro na lang pilas kag ang iya tagipusuon puno sang kasakit.
Halin sa ulo hasta sa dapadapa wala gid sang parte nga maayo, puro na lang pilas, lagob kag hubag. Wala ini nahugasan, ukon nabugkusan, ukon nabulong.
Nangin mamingaw ang inyo nga nasyon; ang inyo mga banwa nagkalasunog. Samtang nagatulok kamo, ginapanguha sang taga-iban nga lugar ang mga bunga sang mga tanom sa inyo mga uma. Ginalaglag nila ang inyo duta hasta nga indi na ini mapuslan.
Wala sing may nabilin kundi ang Zion.
Kon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom wala sing may ginbilin sa aton nga buhi, pareho na kuntani kita sa Sodom kag Gomora.
Amo ini ang ginpahayag sang Dios sang Dios kay Isaias nga anak ni Amoz parte sa Juda kag Jerusalem:
Mga Israelinhon, Mga Israelinhon, magpalagyo kamo pakadto sa mga kuweba ukon sa mga buho para magpanago sa kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa iya puwerte nga gahom.
Magaabot ang adlaw nga ang Ginoo Ginoo lang gid ang pagadayawon. Paubuson niya ang mga bugalon kag matinaas-taason.
Kay may adlaw nga gintalana ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa pagpaubos sa tanan nga bugalon, matinaas-taason, kag nagakabig sang ila kaugalingon nga gamhanan.
Tapson niya ang tanan nga mataas nga kahoy nga sedro sang Lebanon, kag ang tanan nga kahoy nga terebinto sang Bashan.
Tapanon niya ang tanan nga mataas nga mga bukid,
kag rumpagon niya ang tanan nga mataas nga mga tore kag mga pader.
Lunuron niya ang tanan nga barko sang Tarshish kag ang matahom nga mga sakayan.
Sa sina nga adlaw, ang Ginoo Ginoo lang gid ang pagadayawon. Paubuson niya ang mga bugalon kag mga matinaas-taason.
Kag madula sing bug-os ang mga dios-dios.
Magapalagyo ang mga tawo pakadto sa mga kuweba sa banglid kag sa mga buho sa duta para magpanago sa kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa iya puwerte nga gahom kon uyugon na niya ang kalibutan.
Sa palaabuton nga mga inadlaw, ang bukid nga ginatindugan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo mangin pinakaimportante sa tanan nga bukid. Kag magadagsa sa sini nga bukid ang madamo nga tawo nga halin sa tanan nga nasyon.
Sa sina nga adlaw, ipanghaboy nila sa mga ilaga kag sa mga kabog ang mga dios-dios nga pilak kag bulawan nga ila ginhimo para simbahon.
Magapalagyo sila pakadto sa mga kuweba sa banglid kag sa dalagko nga mga bato para magpanago sa kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sa iya gahom kon uyugon na niya ang kalibutan.
Indi kamo magsalig sa tawo nga mapatay man lang. Ano gid bala ang iya mabulig?
Magasiling sila, “Dali, mataklad kita sa bukid sang Ginoo Ginoo , didto sa templo sang Dios ni Jacob. Kay tudluan niya kita sang iya mga pamaagi para tumanon ta ini.” Gani magapuli ang mga tawo halin sa Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem, nga dala ang kasuguan ukon mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag paagi sa iya nga kasuguan, paagi sa iya nga kasuguan, husayon niya ang mga pagbinais-bais sang madamo nga nasyon. Gani indi na mag-ilinaway ang mga nasyon, kag indi na man sila maghanas sang mga tawo sa pagpakig-away. Himuon na lang nila nga tagad ang ila mga espada, kag himuon na lang nila nga mga inughagbas ang ila mga bangkaw.
Dali, kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob, magkabuhi kita sa kamatuoran
Matuod nga ginsikway mo, Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , ang imo katawhan, ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob, kay nagapati sila sa mga pagtuluohan nga pagtuluohan nga halin sa east kag sa mga manugpakot pareho sang mga Filistinhon. Nagasunod sila sa mga pagginawi sang mga taga-iban nga lugar.
Madamo gid ang ila duta sang pilak kag bulawan, kag wala nagakaubos ang ila manggad. Madamo gid ang ila mga kabayo, kag wala nagakaubos ang ila mga karwahe.
Madamo sila sang mga dios-dios. Nagasimba sila sa sini nga mga butang nga ginhimo lang nila.
Gani paubuson mo ang tagsa-tagsa sa ila kag pakahuy-an. Indi sila pagpatawara, Ginoo ! Ginoo Ginoo !
Pamati! Kuhaon sang Ginoo, ang Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo , ang tanan nga ginasaligan sang mga tawo sa Jerusalem kag Juda: ang ila kalan-on kag tubig,
Hambali ninyo ang mga matarong nga masuwerte sila, kay anihon nila ang bunga sang ila maayo nga maayo nga mga binuhatan.
Pero Pero kaluluoy ang mga malain, kay magaabot sa ila ang kahalitan. Balusan sila sa ila mga ginhimo.
Ginadaogdaog sang mga pamatan-on ang akon kasimanwa. Ginagamhan sila sang mga babayi. Mga kasimanwa ko, ginapatalang kamo sang inyo mga pangulo. Ginatuytuyan nila kamo sa indi husto nga dalan.
Handa na ang Ginoo Ginoo nga maghukom sa iya katawhan.
Hukman niya ang mga manugdumala kag mga pangulo sang iya katawhan. Amo ini ang iya akusasyon sa ila, Amo ini ang iya akusasyon sa ila, “Gin-guba ninyo ang akon talamnan sang ubas nga amo ang akon katawhan nga amo ang akon katawhan . Ang inyo mga balay puno sang mga butang nga ginpanguha ninyo sa mga imol.
Ngaa ginapabudlayan ninyo ang akon katawhan kag ginadaogdaog ang mga imol?” Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom.
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Bugalon ang mga babayi sa Jerusalem.
Gani hatagan ko sila sang katol sa ulo, kag makalbo sila.”
Sa sina nga tion, kuhaon sang Ginoo ang ila mga alahas sa ila tiil, ulo, kag liog.
Kuhaon man sa ila ang ila Kuhaon man sa ila ang ila mga aritos, pulseras, bandana,
ang ila bantog nga mga tawo, mga soldado, mga manughukom, mga propeta, mga manugpakot, mga manugdumala,
turban, alahas sa butkon, wagkos, pahamot, kag anting-anting.
Kuhaon pa gid ang ila Kuhaon pa gid ang ila mga singsing sa tudlo kag sa ilong,
ang ila malahalon nga mga bayo, ang ila kapa, pangtabon nga panapton, kahita,
espiho, bayo nga linen, turban, kag belo.
Sa baylo nga mahamot sila, magabaho sila. Lubid ang ila ipaha, kag kalbuhon ang matahom nila nga buhok. Ang malahalon nila nga bayo ilisan sang sako, kag madula ang ila katahom.
Magakalamatay sa inaway ang mga lalaki sang Jerusalem bisan pa ang maisog nila nga mga soldado.
May pagpangasubo kag paghinibi sa mga puwertahan sang siyudad. Kag ang siyudad mismo mangin pareho sa isa ka babayi nga nagalumpiga sa duta, nga nadula ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang.
mga pangulo sang ila mga soldado, mga dungganon nga mga tawo, mga manuglaygay, kag ang ila eksperto nga mga madyikero
Pagamhan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo
Daog-daugon sang tagsa ka tawo ang iya isigkatawo. Ang mga bata magabato sa mga tigulang kag ang mga kubos sa mga dungganon.
Sigurado nga malaglag ang Jerusalem kag ang Juda, tungod kay ang ila mga ginahimo kag ginahambal kontra sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagarebelde sila sa gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang ila hitsura nagasaksi kontra sa ila. Nagapakasala sila sing hayag pareho sang ginhimo sang taga-Sodom. Wala nila ini ginatago. Kaluluoy sila! Sila mismo ang nagdala sang kalaglagan sa ila kaugalingon.
Sa sina nga tion, pito ka babayi ang magaagaway sa isa ka lalaki kag magasiling sila, “Kami na ang bahala sa amon pagkaon kag bayo, asawaha lang kami para indi kami mahuy-an nga wala kami sing bana.”
Magaabot ang adlaw nga pabuganaon kag patahumon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga tanom
Pagatawgon nga balaan ang mga tawo nga nagkalabilin nga buhi sa Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem.
Limpyuhan sang Ginoo ang mahigko nga buhat sang mga babayi sa Jerusalem kag ang pagpamatay didto. Himuon niya ini paagi sa iya nagadabdab nga silot.
Dayon magatuga ang Ginoo Ginoo sang panganod nga magahandong sa Jerusalem
Kag pareho ini sa payag-payag nga magahatag sang handong sa init sang adlaw kag palasilungan kon may bagyo kag ulan.
sa bukid nga ang duta maayo.
Ang duha ka hektarya nga talamnan sang ubas magapatubas lang sang mga anom ka galon nga bino. Kag ang napulo ka gantang nga binhi magapatubas lang sang isa ka gantang.”
Kaluluoy kamo nga aga pa nga nagabangon para magsugod sa pag-inom, kag hasta sa gab-i ang inyo pagpahubog.
Sa inyo mga punsyon may mga banda kamo kag bino. Pero wala ninyo ginasapak ang mga ginahimo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani kamo nga akon katawhan pagabihagon tungod nga wala kamo nakaintiendi sa akon mga ginahimo. Magakalamatay kamo kag ang inyo mga pangulo tungod sa kagutom kag kauhaw.
Nagaabri na sing dako ang lulubngan. Nagapaabot na ini nga isulod ang dungganon nga mga tawo sang Jerusalem pati ang mga pumuluyo sini nga nagahinugyaw kag nagakinalipay.
Gani paubuson ang tanan nga tawo, labi na ang mga bugalon.
Pero ang Ginoo Ginoo ya nga Makagagahom pagadayawon sa iya nga paghukom. Paagi sa iya matarong nga paghukom, ginapakita niya nga balaan siya nga Dios.
Ang naguba nga mga siyudad, sa diin nag-estar ang mga manggaranon, mangin palahalban
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga nagahimo sang sala kag kalautan paagi sa pagbinutig.
Nagayaguta pa kamo, “Dali-dalion sang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel ang iya pagsilot suno sa iya ginsiling nga iya himuon, para makita namon. Matabo na kuntani ang iya plano para mahibaluan namon ini.”
pero nagbunga ini sing maaslom.
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga nagakabig sang malain nga maayo kag sang maayo nga malain. Ang kadulom ginatawag ninyo nga kasanag kag ang kasanag ginatawag ninyo nga kadulom. Ang mapait ginahimo ninyo nga matam-is kag ang matam-is ginahimo ninyo nga mapait.
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga nagahunahuna nga maalam kamo kag mautak.
Kaluluoy kamo nga puwerte paimnon sang bino, kag sagad magtimpla sang mga ilimnon.
Ginahilway ninyo ang mga may sala tungod sa lagay, pero wala ninyo ginahatagan sing hustisya ang mga wala sing sala.
Gani pareho sang dagami kag laya nga hilamon nga madali lang maduktan kag maupos sang kalayo, malaglag kamo gilayon malaglag kamo gilayon . Mangin pareho kamo sa tanom nga ang iya mga gamot nadunot kag ang iya mga bulak ginpalid nga daw sa yab-ok, tungod kay ginsikway ninyo ang Kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.
Gani tungod sa puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo nga iya katawhan, silutan niya kamo. Magkalatay-og ang mga bukid kag maglalapta sa karsada ang inyo mga bangkay pareho sa mga basura. Pero ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo indi pa gid mag-untat. Handa pa gihapon siya sa pagsilot sa inyo.
Sinyasan niya ang mga nasyon sa malayo; magapanihol siya sa pagtawag sa pagtawag sa mga nagaestar sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan, kag sa gilayon magaabot sila sa pagsalakay sa inyo sa pagsalakay sa inyo .
Wala sing isa sa ila nga kapuyon ukon makadusmo, kag wala sing isa nga tuyuhon ukon magtulog. Wala sing paha nga mahukas sa ila, ukon higot sang sandalyas nga mabugto.
Taliwis ang ila mga baslay
Sa ila nga pagsalakay Sa ila nga pagsalakay nagasinggit sila pareho sa nagangurob nga leon. Ang ila mabiktima ginadala nila palayo kag wala sing may makaluwas sini sa ila.
husgari ninyo ako kag ang akon talamnan.
Sa tion nga magsalakay sila sa Israel magasinggit sila nga daw sa huganas sang dagat. Kag kon magtan-aw ang tawo sa duta sang Israel sang Israel , ang makita niya amo ang kadulom kag kalisod. Ang kasanag magadulom kay tabunan sang madamol nga mga panganod.
Ano pa bala ang nalimtan ko nga himuon sa akon talamnan? Nagpaabot ako nga magbunga ini sing matam-is, pero nagbunga ini sing maaslom.
para halbon ini sang mga sapat kag tasakon.
nga indi ini pag-ulanan.”
pero sa baylo, nagpamigos sila.
Kaluluoy kamo nga nagapadamo sang balay kag nagapalapad sang inyo duta hasta nga wala na sing lugar ang iban kag kamo na lang ang nabilin nga nagaestar sa sini nga sini nga duta.
Nabatian ko nga nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Inang dalagko kag matahom nga mga balay indi na pag-estaran.
Sang tuig nga napatay si Haring Uzia, nakita ko ang Ginoo nga nagapungko sa mataas gid nga trono. Ang iya malaba nga bayo naglikop sa templo.
Dayon nagsiling pa gid siya, Dayon nagsiling pa gid siya, “Patig-aha ang tagipusuon sang sini nga mga tawo. Pabungula sila kag bulaga, kay basi makakita sila kag makabati, kag makaintiendi sila kag magbalik sa akon, kag mag-ayo sila.”
Nagpamangkot ako, “Ano kadugay, Ginoo?” Nagsabat siya, “Hasta magkalaguba ang mga banwa sang Israel sang Israel kag wala na sing tawo. Hasta wala na sing may mag-estar sa mga balay, kag ang duta malaglag sing bug-os.
Hasta nga palayason ko ang mga Israelinhon kag ang ila duta daw pinabay-an na.
Bisan mabilin pa ang ikanapulo nga parte sang mga Israelinhon sa duta sang Israel, laglagon gihapon sila. Pero may ginpili ako sa ila nga mabilin. Pareho sila sa tuod sang kahoy nga terebinto nga gintapas.”
May mga langitnon nga tinuga
Ang iya gamhanan nga presensya nagalikop sa bilog nga kalibutan.”
Sa ila nga tingog, nag-uyog ang mga pundasyon sang templo kag napuno sang aso ang templo.
Nagsiling ako, “Kaluluoy ako! Sigurado gid nga laglagon ako, tungod kay malain ang akon ginapanghambal kag nagapuyo ako kaupod sa mga tawo nga malain man ang ila ginapanghambal. Kag karon, nakita ko gid ang Hari, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.”
Dayon ang isa sa mga langitnon nga tinuga naglupad pakadto sa akon nga nagadala sang baga nga ginkimpit niya sa halaran.
Ginpatandog niya ang baga sa akon baba kag nagsiling, “Gintandog sini ang imo bibig, kag wala ka na sing sala kay ginpatawad ka na.”
Dayon nabatian ko ang tingog sang Ginoo nga nagasiling, “Sin-o bala ang akon ipadala? Sin-o bala ang malakat para sa amon?” Nagsabat ako, “Ari ako! Ako ang ipadala.”
Nagsiling siya, “Lakat kag hambali ang katawhan sang Israel, ‘Sige lang kamo pamati, pero indi kamo makaintiendi. Sige lang kamo tulok, pero indi kamo makakita.’ ”
Sang si Ahaz nga anak ni Jotam kag apo ni Uzia ang hari sang Juda, ginsalakay ang Jerusalem. Ang nagsalakay amo si Haring Rezin sang Aram
Karon, nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Ahaz,
“Magpangayo ka sang tanda sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, sa pagpamatuod nga tumanon ko ang akon promisa sa pagpamatuod nga tumanon ko ang akon promisa . Bisan pa maghalin man ini sa idalom, didto sa lugar sang mga patay, ukon sa ibabaw, didto sa langit.”
Nagsabat si Ahaz, “Indi ako magpangayo sang tanda sang tanda . Indi ko pagtilawan ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling si Isaias, “Pamati kamo, kaliwat ni David! Indi pa bala tuman ang pagpaugtas ninyo sa mga tawo? Kag karon ang akon Dios naman ang inyo ginapaugtas!
Gani ang Ginoo mismo ang maghatag sa inyo sang tanda. Kag amo ini ang tanda: Magabusong ang isa ka bataon nga babayi
Sa tion nga matubuan na sing buot ang bata, magakaon siya sing keso
Pero antes siya matubuan sang buot, ang duta sang duha ka hari nga ginakahadlukan mo, Ahaz, Ahaz, malaglag kag pabay-an na lang.
Sa ulihi, Sa ulihi, ikaw kag ang imo katawhan, pati ang imo harianon nga pamilya, ipasalakay sang Ginoo Ginoo sa hari sang Assyria. Kag maagyan ninyo ang kalisod nga wala pa ninyo maagyan halin sang nagseparar ang Israel sa Juda.
“Sa sina nga tion, magapanihol ang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagtawag sa pagtawag sa mga taga-Egypt kag taga-Assyria. Kag magaabot ang mga taga-Egypt nga daw sa mga langaw halin sa malayo nga mga suba sang Egypt, kag magaabot man ang mga taga-Assyria nga daw sa mga putyukan.
Magaabot ini sila kag magaestar sa bisan diin: sa madalom nga mga ililigan sang tubig, sa mga buho sang dalagko nga mga bato, sa tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy, kag sa mga palahalban.
Sang nabalitaan sang hari sang Juda
“Sa sina nga tion, gamiton sang Ginoo ang hari sang Assyria sa paglaglag sing bug-os sa inyo duta. Pareho siya sa barbero nga halin sa tabok sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates nga ginsuhulan sa pagkiskis sang inyo buhok, balahibo, kag pati sang inyo mga burangos.
“Sa sina nga tion, ang masagod sang mga tawo tig-isa lang ka bataon nga babayi nga baka kag duha ka kanding,
nga amo lang lang ang ila kuhaan sang ila gatas. Gatas kag honey ang mangin pagkaon sang tanan nga mabilin sa Juda.
Sa sina man nga tion, ang talamnan sang ubas nga may 1,000 ka puno nga nagabili sing 1,000 ka pilak mapuno sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy kag mangin masiot na.
Magapangayam ang mga tawo didto dala ang ila mga pana kag bangkaw, tungod kay masiot na ini kag puno sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy.
Wala na sing may magkadto sa mga bukid didto nga sang una anay ginatamnan, tungod sa kahadlok nga masiot na ini kag puno sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy. Mangin palahalban na lang ini sang mga baka, karnero kag kanding.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Isaias, “Upda ang imo anak nga si Shear Jashub
Amo ini ang isiling mo sa iya: ‘Maghanda ka! Magkalma ka lang kag indi magkahadlok. Indi ka magpakulba tungod lang sa puwerte nga kaakig ni Haring Haring Rezin sang Aram kag ni Haring Peka nga ni Haring Peka nga anak ni Remalia. Ini sila pareho lang sa duha ka tuod sang kahoy nga nagaaso pero wala sing kalayo.
Nagplano sila sa paglaglag sa imo. Nagsiling sila,
“Salakayon ta ang Juda kag pierdihon. Pamartidahon ta ang kadutaan sini kag himuon dayon naton nga hari didto ang anak ni Tabeel.”
“ ‘Pero nagasiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios : Indi gid ini matabo.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Magkuha ka sang isa ka malapad nga sululatan, kag isulat ini nga mga pulong nga mabasahan: ‘Maher Shalal Hash Baz.’
Kon ano man ang inyo ginaplano kontra sa amon, indi ini mangin madinalag-on, tungod kay ang Dios kaupod namon.
Ginpaandaman gid ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi ako magsunod sa pagginawi sang akon mga kasimanwa. Nagsiling pa gid pa gid siya,
“Indi pagpatihi ang ginasiling nila nga mga traidor kamo.
Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, dapat kilalahon ninyo nga balaan. Ako ang dapat ninyo kahadlukan.
Ako ang inyo mangin dalangpan. Pero para sa Israel kag Juda, pareho ako sa bato nga nagapasandad kag nagapadasma sa ila, kag para sa katawhan sang Jerusalem, pareho ako sa siod.
Madamo sa ila ang masandad, matumba, kag malaglag. Masiod sila kag madakpan.”
Kamo nga akon mga sumulunod, tipigi ninyo ang akon akon mga pagpanudlo.
Magalaom ako sa Ginoo Ginoo bisan pa nga nagtalikod siya sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob. Magasalig gid ako sa iya.
Ari ako kag ang mga anak nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon. Mga tanda kami para sa Israel
Kon may magsiling sa inyo nga magpangayo kamo sang mensahi halin sa mga patay paagi sa mga babaylan kag espiritista, indi ninyo paghimuon. Magpamangkot kamo sa inyo Dios. Ina sila nagakutib-kutib lang sang ila baba. Kag ngaa mamangkot kamo sa mga patay para sa mga buhi?
Dayon nagkuha ako sang duha ka masaligan nga saksi nga magtestigo nga ginsulat ko ini. Sila amo si Uria nga pari kag si Zacarias nga anak ni Jeberekia.”
Dapat ang kasuguan kag pagpanudlo sang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang inyo pamatian. Kon may mga tawo nga maghambal sang mga butang nga kontra sa mga ginatudlo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ina nga mga tawo wala nasanagan ang ila hunahuna.
Magalakat sila nga ginabudlayan kag gutom. Kag tungod sa ila kagutom, mangakig sila kag pakamalauton nila ang ila hari kag ang ila Dios. Magtangla man sila sa langit
ukon magtan-aw sa duta, wala sila sing may makita kundi kalisod kag kadulom. Kag didto sila dal-on sa makahaladlok nga kadulom.
Karon, naghulid ako sa akon asawa nga akon asawa nga propeta, kag nagbusong siya kag nagbata sing lalaki. Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Ngalani ang bata nga Maher Shalal Hash Baz.
Antes makahibalo ang bata magtawag ‘tatay’ ukon ‘nanay,’ ang manggad sang Damascus kag ang mga ginpang-agaw sang Samaria pagakuhaon sang hari sang Assyria.”
Nagsiling pa gid liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Tungod kay ginsikway sang sini nga katawhan ang tubig sang Shiloa nga nagailig sing mahinay,
ipasalakay ko sila sa hari sang Assyria kag sa iya mga soldado nga pareho sa baha sang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates nga nagapalanglapaw sa iya mga pangpang.
Pero sa gihapon Pero sa gihapon ang Dios kaupod namon!
Kamo nga mga nasyon, bisan magtipon man kamo, maglalapta gihapon kamo. Pamati kamo nga ara sa mga malayo! Bisan maghanda pa kamo sa pagpakig-away, mapierdi gihapon kamo.
Pero magaabot ang tion nga madula na ang kadulom sa sina nga duta nga sina nga duta nga ara sa kalisod. Sang una ginpakahuy-an sang Ginoo Ginoo ang duta sang Zebulun kag Naftali, pero sa ulihi padunggan niya ini nga mga lugar nga alagyan pakadto sa dagat
“Nagkalarumpag ang amon mga balay nga hinimo halin sa tisa
Gani ipasalakay sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga taga-Assyria, nga mga taga-Assyria, nga mga kaaway ni Haring Haring Rezin.
Laglagon sila sang mga Arameanhon
Pero ang katawhan sang Israel sang Israel indi gihapon magbalik sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga nagsilot sa ila.
Gani sa hinali lang
Ang ulo amo ang mga manugdumala kag mga dungganon nga mga tawo, kag ang ikog amo ang butigon nga mga propeta.
Ang mga nagapangulo sa katawhan sang Israel nagapatalang sa ila, kag ini nga katawhan nagatalang-talang.
Pero ang kaakig sang Ginoo indi pa gid mag-untat. Handa pa gihapon siya sa pagsilot sa ila.
Kay ang ila kalautan pareho sa kalayo nga nagasunog sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy. Nagadabadaba ini pareho sa kalayo nga nagasunog sang kakahuyan, kag ang madamol nga aso nagatub-ok paibabaw.
Indi nila pagkaluoyan bisan ang ila kapareho nga Israelinhon.
Ang mga tawo dira nga nadulman makakita sang puwerte nga kasanag. Ang mga nadulman nga ginahadlukan nga mapatay masanagan.
Bisan ano nga pagkaon ang ila makita sa palibot kuhaon nila kag kaunon, pero indi gihapon sila mabusog. Pagakaunon nila pati ang ila mga kabataan.
Magaaway ang Manase kag ang Efraim, kag dayon sila nga duha magasalakay sa Juda. Pero ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo indi pa gid mag-untat. Handa pa gihapon siya sa pagsilot sa ila.
Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , hatagan mo sila sing dako gid nga kalipay. Magakalipay sila sa imo presensya pareho sa mga tawo nga nagakalipay kon tig-alani ukon pareho sa mga tawo nga nagakalipay sa ila nga pagpartida sang mga pagkabutang nga naagaw nila sa inaway.
Kay hilwayon mo sila sa mga nagadaogdaog sa ila. Pareho sila sa sapat nga balion mo ang gota nga iya ginapas-an kag ang baston nga ginahanot sa iya. Ang imo himuon sa ila pareho sa imo ginhimo sadto anay sang napierdi ang mga taga-Midian.
Magakalipay man sila Magakalipay man sila kay mauntat na ang pag-ilinaway mauntat na ang pag-ilinaway . Pagasunugon ang mga uniporme sang mga soldado nga nabulit sang dugo, pati na ang ila mga botas.
Matawo ang isa ka bata nga lalaki kag magahari siya sa amon. Pagatawgon siya, “Makatilingala nga Manuglaygay,
Wala sing katapusan ang pag-uswag sang iya pagdumala, kag permi lang ini may kalinong. Magapanubli siya sang ginharian ni David. Palig-unon niya ini kag pagaharian nga may hustisya kag pagkamatarong hasta san-o. Siguraduhon gid sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga matuman ini.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo nga silutan niya ang Israel, ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
Ari na sa kamot ko ang mga ginharian nga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios, nga labaw pa
Ginlaglag ko na ang Samaria kag ang mga dios-dios sini. Amo man ang himuon ko sa Jerusalem kag sa mga dios-dios sini.”
Pero amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo nga matabo kon matapos na niya ang iya himuon kontra sa Bukid sang Zion kag sa Jerusalem: “Silutan ko ang hari sang Assyria tungod sa iya pagkamatinaas-taason kag pagkabugalon!
Kay nagasiling siya, ‘Nahimo ko ini tungod sa akon kusog kag kaalam: Ginpang-agaw ko ang madamo nga nasyon, kag ang ila mga manggad. Pareho ako sa turo nga baka; ginpangpierdi ko ang ila mga hari.
Ginpanguha ko ang manggad sang mga nasyon pareho nga daw nagapanguha lang ako sang mga itlog sa ginbayaan nga pugad. Wala sing may nagpalakpalak ukon may nag-iyagak.’ ”
Mas labaw pa bala ang wasay ukon ang lagari sa nagagamit sa iya? Makaalsa bala ang balakol sa nagakapot sa iya?
Gani ang Ginoo, ang Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo , magapadala sang balatian nga makapaluya sa mga soldado sang hari sang Assyria, nga mga maayo sing lawas. Sunugon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya manggad sa nagadabadaba nga kalayo.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo , nga amo ang suga sang Israel kag ila balaan nga Dios, mangin pareho sa nagadabadaba nga kalayo. Sunugon niya sa hinali lang
Kon paano ginaguba sang balatian ang lawas sang tawo, gub-on man sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga kagulangan kag mga kaumahan sang hari sang Assyria.
Diutay lang ang mabilin nga mga kahoy sa iya kagulangan. Bisan ang bata gani sarang makaisip sini.
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom, “Kamo nga akon katawhan nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem,
Tungod kay sa indi madugay matapos na ang kaakig ko sa inyo kag sa ila ko na man ipakita ang akon kaakig hasta magkalamatay sila.”
Silutan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sa iya ginhimo sa mga taga-Midian didto sa Bato sang Oreb kag sa mga taga-Egypt sang ginlunod niya sila sa dagat.
Sa sina nga adlaw, hilwayon niya kamo sa gahom sang Assyria nga daw sa mabug-at nga dala sa inyo abaga kag daw sa gota nga nagapabug-at sa inyo liog. Mahilway kamo sa iya gahom tungod nga mangin gamhanan kamo.
Ginsalakay sang mga taga-Assyria ang Ayat. Didto sila nag-agi sa Migron kag ginbilin nila sa Micmash ang ila mga dala.
Nag-agi sila sa talabukan, kag didto nagtulog sa Geba. Hinadlukan ang mga taga-Rama, kag nagpalagyo ang mga pumuluyo sang Gibea nga amo ang banwa ni Haring Haring Saul.
Ano ang himuon ninyo sa adlaw nga silutan kamo? Ano ang himuon ninyo pag-abot sang katalagman halin sa malayo? Sin-o ang pangayuan ninyo sang bulig? Kag sa diin ninyo taguon ang inyo manggad?
Magsinggit kamo, mga taga-Galim! Magpamati kamo nga mga taga-Laish kag kamo nga mga taga-Anatot nga mga kaluluoy!
Nagpalagyo na ang mga pumuluyo sang Madmena kag Gebim.
Sa sini nga adlaw, maabot ang mga taga-Assyria sa Nob. Kag magasenyas sila sa pagsalakay sa bukid sang Zion,
Pamati! Ang Ginoo, ang Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo , magalaglag sa mga taga-Assyria paagi sa iya puwerte nga gahom, pareho sang pagpang-utod sang mga sanga sa puno. Paubuson niya sila nga mga bugalon pareho sang pagpang-utod sang mataas nga mga kahoy.
Panglaglagon niya sila pareho sang pagpang-utod sang mga kahoy sa kagulangan paagi sa wasay. Sila nga pareho sang mga kahoy sa Lebanon, laglagon sila sang gamhanan nga Dios nga Dios .
Wala sing may mabilin sa inyo kundi mabihag kamo ukon magakalamatay. Pero ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo indi pa gid mag-untat. Handa pa gihapon siya sa pagsilot sa inyo.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kaluluoy ang mga taga-Assyria. Sila ang gamiton ko nga balakol sa pagsilot sa mga ginakaugtan ko.
Suguon ko sila nga magsalakay sa indi diosnon nga nasyon nga ginakaugtan ko, para laglagon ini pareho sa lutak sa karsada nga ginatasak-tasak, kag para kuhaon nila ang tanan nga pagkabutang sang sini nga nasyon.”
Pero indi makahibalo ang hari sang Assyria nga ginagamit lang sila sang Ginoo Ginoo . Abi niya ginalaglag lang niya ang madamo nga nasyon.
Nagapahambog siya, “Ang mga kumander sang akon mga soldado daw sa daw sa mga hari.
Ano bala ang kinalain sang Carkemish sa Calno, sang Arpad sa Hamat, kag sang Damascus sa Samaria? Palareho lang nga naagaw ko ini nga mga siyudad Palareho lang nga naagaw ko ini nga mga siyudad .
Ang harianon nga mga kaliwat ni David
Magaabot ang adlaw nga ang bag-o nga hari nga kaliwat ni David
Sa sina man nga adlaw, gamiton liwat sang Ginoo ang iya gahom sa pagpabalik sang mga nabilin niya nga katawhan sa Assyria, Egypt, Patros, Ethiopia,
Bayawon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang isa ka bandera sa pagpakita sa mga nasyon nga ginatipon na niya ang katawhan sang Israel kag Juda halin sa nagkalain-lain nga parte sang kalibutan.
Madula na ang kahisa sang Israel sa Juda kag ang kainit sang Juda sa Israel.
Magaisa sila sa pagsalakay sa mga Filistinhon sa west. Salakayon man nila ang mga nasyon sa east kag panguhaon ang mga pagkabutang sini. Sakupon nila ang Edom kag Moab, kag ang mga Ammonhon magapasakop man sa ila.
Pamalahon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Dagat sang Egypt, kag padal-an niya sang mainit nga hangin ang Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates para mahimo na lang ini nga pito ka magagmay nga mga ililigan sang tubig nga puwede matabok sang tawo nga ginaubog lang.
Subong nga may malapad nga dalan nga gin-agyan ang katawhan sang Israel sang paghalin nila sa Egypt, may malapad man nga dalan para sa mga nabilin niya nga katawhan sa Assyria.
Magagahom sa iya ang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo sa paghatag sa iya sang kaalam, pag-intiendi, abilidad sa pagplano, gahom, ihibalo, kag pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag igakalipay niya ang pagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo . Indi siya maghukom suno lang sa iya nakita ukon sa mga sugid-sugid lang.
Hatagan niya sang matarong nga paghukom ang mga imol kag apinan niya sila sa ila kinamatarong. Paagi sa iya pagmando, silutan niya ang kalibutan kag magakalamatay ang malain nga mga tawo.
Ara permi sa iya ang pagkamatarong kag pagkamasaligan
May kalinong sa iya nga paghari May kalinong sa iya nga paghari . Magapuyo ang wolf upod sa karnero. Magaluko ang leopard upod sa kanding. Magaupod ang bata sang baka kag ang bata sang leon, kag isa ka gamay nga bata ang magaatipan
Magaupod kaon ang baka kag ang bear, kag ang ila mga bata magaupdanay sa pagluko. Ang leon magaharab sang dagami pareho sa baka.
Bisan maghampang ang lapsag malapit sa buho sang dalitan nga man-og, ukon bisan pa igulo sang bata ang iya kamot sa buho sang man-og, indi siya maano.
Wala na sing may magpanghalit ukon magpangguba sa akon balaan nga bukid. Kay ang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan mapun-an sang ihibalo parte sa Ginoo Ginoo , subong nga ang dagat puno sang tubig.
kag ginalipay mo ako.
Ikaw ang nagluwas sa akon.”
Subong nga ang mabugnaw nga tubig nagahatag kalipay sa ginauhaw, magakalipay kamo kon luwason na kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ipanugid ninyo nga dalayawon siya.
Ipahibalo ninyo ini sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Kay gamhanan ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel nga inyo kaupod.”
Amo ini ang mensahi parte sa Babilonia nga ginpahayag sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Isaias nga anak ni Amoz:
Indi na magsiga ang mga bituon. Magaguwa ang adlaw nga madulom, kag pati ang bulan indi na magsanag.
Nagasiling ang Ginoo , Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Silutan ko ang kalibutan tungod sang iya kalautan, kag ang mga makasasala tungod sang ila mga sala. Tapnaon ko ang mga bugalon, kag pauntaton ko ang pagkamatinaas-taason sang mga tawo nga wala sing kaluoy.
Diutay lang ang mabilin nga mga tawo. Mas mabudlay pa sila pangitaon sang sa puro nga bulawan nga halin sa Ofir.
Uyugon ko ang langit kag ang kalibutan. Himuon ko ini sa sina nga adlaw nga ipakita ko ang akon puwerte nga kaakig.”
Ang mga pangayaw sa Babilonia sa Babilonia magapalagyo pabalik sa ila tagsa-tagsa ka lugar nga pareho sa usa nga ginalagas. Magapuli sila nga daw sa karnero nga wala sing manugbantay.
Ang kada madakpan patyon paagi sa espada hasta mapatay.
Dugmukon ang ila magagmay nga mga bata sa ila atubangan. Kuhaon ang ila mga pagkabutang sa ila mga balay kag luguson ang ila mga asawa.
Pamati! Ipasalakay ko ang Babilonia sa mga taga-Media nga wala nagasapak sa pilak kag bulawan.
Pamatyon nila paagi sa pana ang pamatan-on nga mga lalaki sang Babilonia sang Babilonia . Indi nila pagkaluoyan ang mga kabataan pati ang mga lapsag.
Pagalaglagon ko pareho sang Sodom kag Gomora ang Babilonia, ang labing matahom nga ginharian sa tanan, ang bugal kag dungog sang mga pumuluyo sini.
Bayawa ang isa ka bandera didto sa putokputokan sang mahawan nga bukid. Dayon magsinggit kamo sing mabaskog sa mga soldado kag magsenyas sa ila para salakayon nila ang mga puwertahan sang siyudad sang siyudad sang dungganon nga mga tawo.
Indi na gid ini pag-estaran pa hasta san-o. Wala sing Arabo nga magpatindog didto sang iya tolda. Kag wala man sing manugbantay sang karnero nga magpaharab sang iya mga karnero didto.
Estaran na lang ini sang talunon nga mga sapat. Ang ila mga balay estaran sang mga bukaw kag sang iban pa nga mga sapat. Magalukso-lukso didto ang talunon nga mga kanding.
Ang mga sapat nga daw mga ido magauwang sa mga tore kag mga palasyo sang Babilonia. Dali na lang ang katapusan sang Babilonia; indi na ini magdugay.
Ginsugo ko na ang akon pinili nga mga soldado sa pagsilot sa mga tawo nga akon ginakaugtan. Ini nga mga soldado nagakalipay kay nagasalig gid sila nga himuon ko ini nga pagsilot.
Pamatii ninyo ang ginahod sa mga bukid sang puwerte kadamo nga mga tawo. Pamatii ninyo ang ginahod sang mga ginharian kag mga nasyon nga nagatilipon. Ginatipon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom ang iya mga soldado para sa inaway.
Nagahalin sila sa malayo gid nga mga lugar. Laglagon sang Ginoo Ginoo kag sang iya mga soldado ang bilog nga duta.
Maghibi kamo tungod kay malapit na lang ang adlaw sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang adlaw sang pagpanglaglag sang Makagagahom nga Dios.
Sa sina nga tion, magaluya ang tanan nga kamot. Madulaan sing kaisog ang tanan nga tawo.
Magakurog sila sa kahadlok. Mabatyagan nila ang puwerte nga kasakit pareho sang pagpasakit sang babayi nga manugbata. Magatinulukay sila sa isa kag isa, kag ang ila mga guya mamula sa kahuya.
Pamati! Magaabot na ang adlaw sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang adlaw sang kapintas kag puwerte nga kaakig. Laglagon ang duta hasta nga indi na maestaran, kag pati ang mga makasasala dira laglagon.
Sa pagkamatuod, kaluoyan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Israel kag pilion niya liwat sila bilang iya katawhan bilang iya katawhan . Paestaron niya liwat sila sa ila kaugalingon nga duta, kag may mga pangayaw nga magaestar upod sa ila.
Magasiling sila tanan sa imo: ‘Maluya ka na karon pareho sa amon. Palareho na kita.
Karon nga patay ka na, ang imo pagkagamhanan nadula na pati ang tinukar sang imo mga arpa. Ulod ang imo hiligdaan kag ulod man ang imo habol.’
“Nahulog ka halin sa langit, ikaw nga ginatawag bituon sa kaagahon. Ginpilak ka sa duta, ikaw nga nagpanglaglag sa mga nasyon.
Nagsiling ka sa imo kaugalingon, ‘Masaka ako sa langit, kag ibutang ko ang akon trono sa ibabaw sang mga bituon sang Dios. Mapungko ako sa ibabaw sang bukid nga ginatipunan sang mga dios didto sa north.
Masaka ako sa ibabaw sang mga panganod; tupungan ko ang Labing Mataas nga Dios.’
“Pero ang matabo sa imo ang matabo sa imo , pagadal-on ka sa lugar sang mga patay, sa kadadalman sang buho.
Himutaran ka sang mga patay kag magahunahuna sila, ‘Indi bala nga amo ini ang tawo nga nagpakurog sa mga tawo sa kalibutan kag nagpahadlok sa mga ginharian?
Kag indi bala nga siya ang nagguba sang mga siyudad kag naghimo sang kalibutan nga daw desierto, kag wala naghilway sang iya mga ginbihag?’
“Ang tanan nga hari sa kalibutan nagahamyang nga may dungog sa ila kaugalingon nga lulubngan.
Pero ikaw ya, indi pag-ilubong sa imo lulubngan kundi ihaboy ang imo bangkay pareho sa sanga nga wala sing pulos. Tabunan ka sang mga bangkay sang mga soldado nga napatay sa inaway, kag ihulog ka kaupod nila sa buho kag tampukan sang mga bato. Mangin pareho ka sa bangkay nga ginatasak-tasak lang.
Buligan sang iban nga mga nasyon ang katawhan sang Israel para makabalik sila sa lugar nga ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila. Kag mangin ulipon nila didto ang taga-iban nga nasyon. Mangin bihag nila ang mga nagbihag sa ila sang una, kag sakupon nila ang mga nagdaogdaog sa ila.
Indi ka pag-ilubong pareho sang iban nga mga hari, kay ginlaglag mo ang imo nasyon kag ginpamatay ang imo katawhan. Wala sing may mabilin nga buhi sa imo malain nga pamilya.
“Preparaha na ang lugar nga pagapatyan sang iya mga anak tungod sa mga sala sang ila mga katigulangan! Indi na sila dapat magpanakop sang mga duta ukon magpatindog sang mga siyudad sa bilog nga kalibutan.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Salakayon ko kag laglagon ang Babilonia. Wala ako sing may ibilin nga buhi sa sini nga lugar. Wala gid sing may mabilin sa ila mga kaliwat.
Himuon ko ini nga kamingawan, nga madamo sang danaw. Laglagon ko ini pareho nga daw silhigon ko. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagpanumpa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Matuman gid ang akon plano kag tinutuyo.
Laglagon ko ang mga taga-Assyria kon ara sila sa Israel nga Israel nga akon duta. Tasak-tasakon ko sila sa akon mga bukid. Indi na nila pag-ulipunon ang akon katawhan.
Amo ini ang plano nga himuon ko sa bilog nga kalibutan. Amo ini ang silot nga ipakita ko sa tanan nga nasyon.”
Sin-o bala ang makaliwat sa plano sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom? Sin-o bala ang makapugong sa iya pagsilot?
Ang ini nga mensahi ginpahayag sang Dios sang Dios sadtong tuig nga napatay si Haring Ahaz:
Mga Filistinhon, indi kamo magkalipay tungod nga napatay ang hari nga nagsalakay sa inyo.
Mga taga-Israel, Mga taga-Israel, sa adlaw nga papahuwayon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo mga pag-antos, kabudlayan, kag pagkaulipon,
Ang akon katawhan nga mga imol atipanon ko kag papahuwayon nga wala sing may mag-ano sa ila. Pero pamatyon ko ang inyo mga kaliwat sa gutom. Kag ang mabilin sa ila pamatyon ko man.
Maghibi kamo sing tudo, kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang mga banwa sang Filistia. Kay magasalakay sa inyo ang inyo kaaway nga daw sa aso nga halin sa north. Tanan sila maisog.
Ano ang isabat ta sa mga mensahero sang sina nga sina nga nasyon? Sugiran ta sila nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagtukod sang Jerusalem
“Nalaglag na ang nagapamigos nga hari. Natapos na ang iya pagpabugal.
Gindula na sang Ginoo Ginoo ang awtoridad sang malain nga mga pangulo,
nga sa ila kaakig wala untat ang ila pagpaantos sa mga tawo, kag wala pugong-pugong ang ila paghingabot sa mga nasyon.
Sa katapusan, Sa katapusan, malinong na ang bilog nga kalibutan, kag ang mga tawo nagakanta sa kalipay.
Bisan ang mga kahoy nga sipres kag sedro sang Lebanon nagakalipay tungod sa natabo sa hari. Daw sa tawo sila nga nagasiling, ‘Karon nga wala ka na, wala na sing may mag-utod sa amon!’
“Ang lugar sang mga patay daw maano na sa imo pag-abot; handa na ini para sugataon ka. Ang mga kalag sang mga tawo nga gamhanan sang una sa kalibutan nagaginual sa pag-abiabi sa imo. Nagtindog ang mga kalag sang mga hari sa ila mga trono sa pagsugata sa imo.
Sa isa lang ka gab-i naguba ang mga banwa sang Ar kag Kir nga sakop sang Moab.
Nagtaklad ang mga taga-Dibon sa ila templo kag sa ila mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar para maghibi didto. Ginahibian sang mga taga-Moab ang Nebo kag Medeba. Kada isa sa ila nagpakalbo kag nagpabarbas sang ila mga burangos sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo .
Nagasuksok sila sang sako samtang nagalakat sa karsada. Nagahinibi sila sing tudo sa atop sang ila mga balay kag sa mga plasa.
Nagahinibi ang mga taga-Heshbon kag ang mga taga-Eleale, kag mabatian ini hasta sa Jahaz. Gani ang mga soldado sang Moab nagasinggit sa kahadlok.
Nasubuan gid ako sa natabo sa natabo sa Moab. Nagpalalagyo ang iya katawhan sa Zoar hasta sa Eglat Shelishiya. Nagahinibi sila nga nagataklad sa Luhit. Ang iban sa ila nagagurahab pakadto sa Horonaim tungod sa ila nga nadangatan.
Nagmala ang sapa
Gani gindala nila sa tabok sang ililigan sang tubig sang Arabim ang mga pagkabutang nga ila ginpangabudlayan kag ang ila mga natipon.
Mabatian ang ila paghinibi sa border sang Moab hasta sa Eglaim kag sa Beer Elim.
Nagpula sa dugo ang tubig sang Dibon,
Ang mga taga-Moab nga nagpalalagyo sa Sela, nga isa ka banwa sa kamingawan, nagpadala sang bataon nga mga karnero sa nagahari sa bukid sang Zion
Nadula ang kalipay kag ang kasadya sa mapatubason nga mga uma. Wala na sing may nagakanta ukon nagahinugyaw sa mga talamnan sang ubas. Wala na sing may nagapuga sang ubas para himuon nga bino. Ginpauntat na sang Ginoo Ginoo
Gani nagakasubo ako sa nadangatan sang Moab pareho sa masubo nga tunog sang masubo nga tunog sang arpa. Nagakasubo man ako sa nadangatan sang Kir Hareset.
Kapuyon lang ang mga taga-Moab sa ila pagbalik-balik sa ila mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar. Wala sing pulos ang ila pagkadto sa templo sa pagpangamuyo.
Amo ato ang ginsiling sang una sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa Moab.
Kag karon, amo naman ini ang iya ginasiling, “Sa sulod sang tatlo gid ka tuig, madula ang manggad sang Moab kag mahuy-an ang iya katawhan. Diutay lang ang mabilin nga buhi sa iya katawhan kag ini sila mga maluya pa.”
Ang mga babayi sang Moab nga ara sa talabukan sang Arnon pareho sa mga pispis nga gintabog sa ila nga pugad.
Nagsiling ang mga taga-Moab sa mga taga-Juda Nagsiling ang mga taga-Moab sa mga taga-Juda : “Laygayi ninyo kami kon ano ang amon himuon. Protektari ninyo kami, pareho sang paghandong sang kahoy kon udtong-adlaw. Nagpalalagyo kami sa amon lugar kag wala na kami sang amon kaugalingon nga elistaran. Tagua ninyo kami kag indi ninyo kami pagpabay-i.
Magauntat ang pagpamigos kag ang pagpanglaglag. Madula na ang nagapamigos sa duta sang Israel sang Israel .
Kag magahari ang isa ka kaliwat ni David nga may katutom kag paghigugma. Sa iya nga paghukom, gusto niya gid nga maghatag sang hustisya. Kag maabtik siya maghimo sang matarong.
Nabalitaan namon kon daw ano ka bugalon ang mga taga-Moab. Mga hambog sila kag matinaas-taason, pero wala ini sing pulos.
Gani hibian nila ang ila nasyon. Magahibi sila tanan tungod sa pagkadula sang ila manamit nga pagkaon sa Kir Hareset.
Nagkalaguba ang mga uma sa Heshbon kag pati ang mga talamnan sang ubas sa Sibma. Gin-guba sang mga pangulo sang mga nasyon ining mga talamnan sang ubas
Gani nagahibi ako, subong nga nagahibi ang taga-Jazer, tungod sang talamnan sang ubas sang Sibma. Ginahibian ko ang Heshbon kag Eleale kay indi na mabatian ang paghinugyaw sa kalipay sa ila mga patubas.
“Pamati! Indi na mangin isa ka siyudad ang Damascus tungod kay maguba ini.
Matabo ini sa inyo mga taga-Israel, Matabo ini sa inyo mga taga-Israel, kay ginkalimtan ninyo ang Dios nga inyo manluluwas kag ang inyo palalipdan nga bato. Gani bisan magtanom kamo sang maayo nga klase sang mga tanom, pareho sang ubas nga halin pa sa iban nga lugar,
kag bisan magtubo man ini kag mamulak sa sina mismo nga adlaw nga gintanom ninyo, wala kamo sing bunga nga makuha kundi puro lang kabudlayan kag wala untat nga kasakit.
Abaw! Ang girinual sang madamo nga katawhan daw sa huganas sang dalagko nga mga balod.
Pero bisan pareho pa sila sa dalagko nga mga balod nga nagahuganas, magapalagyo sila kon sabdungon sila sang Dios. Pareho sila sa upa sa bukid nga ginapalid sang hangin, kag pareho sang dagami nga ginapalid sang buhawi.
Sa gab-i nagadala sila sang kahadlok, pero pagkaaga nagakalaglag sila. Amo ina ang matabo sa mga nagasalakay sa aton, ang dangatan sang nagapanguha sang aton pagkabutang.
Wala na gid sing may mag-estar sa mga banwa sang Aroer. Mangin palahalban na lang ini sang mga sapat, kag wala sing may magatabog sini sa ila.
Magakalaguba ang napaderan nga mga banwa sang Israel,
“Pag-abot sang sina nga adlaw, mauntat na ang pagkagamhanan sang Israel, kag ang iya pagkamanggaranon pagabayluhan sang kaimulon.
Mangin pareho siya sa talamnan nga ang mga uhay gin-garab sang manug-ani, pareho sa talamnan sa Kapatagan sang Refaim matapos nga gin-anihan.
Diutay lang ang mabilin sa iya katawhan. Pareho bala sa kahoy nga olibo pagkatapos nga gindugos ang mga bunga sini: duha ukon tatlo lang ka bunga ang mabilin sa pinakamataas nga mga sanga; apat ukon lima lang ka bunga sa iban nga mga sanga. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Dios sang Israel, ang nagasiling sini.”
Sa sina nga adlaw, magadangop ang mga tawo sa nagtuga sa ila, sa Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.
Indi na sila magdangop sa mga halaran nga sila man lang mismo ang naghimo. Indi na nila pagsapakon ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, kag ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan nila sang insenso, nga ginhimo man lang nila.
Sa sina nga adlaw, ang ila napaderan nga mga banwa maguba kag bayaan na lang nila. Pareho sa mga banwa sang mga Amornon kag Hivhanon
Kaluluoy ang lugar nga ara dampi sa mga suba sang Ethiopia,
Kamo nga madasig nga mga mensahero, magbalik na kamo sa inyo duta nga nabahin-bahin sang mga suba. Magbalik kamo sa inyo mga katawhan nga mga mataas kag mapino sing supat,
Kamo tanan nga nagaestar sa kalibutan, bantayi ninyo ang pagbayaw sang bandera sa ibabaw sang bukid, kag pamatii ninyo ang tunog sang budyong.
Kay amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon: “Halin sa akon ginapungkuan, nagabantay lang ako kag nagahulat sing malinong pareho sang pagsilak sang adlaw kon udto kag sang pagporma sang tun-og sa magin-ot nga panahon sang tig-alani.”
Sa wala pa ang tig-alani, sa tion pa lang sang pagpamulak sang ubas kag nagaamat-amat pa lang luto ang mga bunga sini, tapson sang Dios ang mga sanga sini gamit ang inughagbas.
Huo, laglagon niya ang mga taga-Ethiopia, kag Huo, laglagon niya ang mga taga-Ethiopia, kag pabay-an ang ila mga bangkay sa mga pispis kag sa mapintas nga mga sapat. Mangin kalan-on sila sang mga pispis sa tion sang tingadlaw kag sang mapintas nga mga sapat sa tion sang tigtulugnaw.
Pero magaabot ang tion nga magabaton ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sang regalo halin sa sini nga duta nga nabahin-bahin sang mga suba. Ang mga katawhan sini mga mataas, mapino sing supat, gamhanan kag ginakahadlukan bisan diin. Pagadal-on nila ang ila mga regalo sa Bukid sang Zion, nga sa diin ginapadunggan ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Pamati! Nagasakay ang Ginoo Ginoo sa panganod kag madasig nga nagapakadto sa Egypt. Sa iya pag-abot, nagakurog sa kahadlok ang mga dios-dios sang Egypt, kag ginakulbaan ang mga Egyptohanon.
Masubuan gid ang mga manughabol
Mga buang-buang ang mga opisyal sang Zoan! Ginakilala sila nga mga pinakamaalam sa mga manuglaygay sang hari sang Egypt, pero ang ila mga ginalaygay wala sing pulos. Paano sila makasiling sa hari sang Egypt,
Hari sang Egypt, diin na karon ang imo maalamon nga mga tawo? Kon maalamon gid man sila, pasugira sila kon ano ang plano sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa Egypt.
Mga buang-buang gid man ang mga opisyal sang Zoan, kag ang mga opisyal sang Memfis
Daw sa ginapalingin sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ulo sang mga taga-Egypt. Nagatalang-talang sila sa tanan nila nga ginahimo. Pareho sila sa hubog nga nagaduling-duling kag nagasuluka.
Wala sing bisan sin-o sa Egypt nga makabulig sang iya nasyon, manggaranon man ukon imol, dungganon man ukon kubos.
Sa sina nga tion, ang mga Egyptohanon mangin maluya maluya pareho sa babayi. Magakurog sila sa kahadlok sa silot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa ila.
Mahadlok sila sa Juda, bisan mamitlang lang ang ngalan sini. Matabo ini sa ila Matabo ini sa ila tungod sang plano sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom kontra sa ila.
Sa sina man nga tion, lima ka banwa sang Egypt magasunod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, kag magahambal sila sa lingguahe nga Hebreo.
Sa sina nga tion, patindugon ang isa ka halaran para sa Ginoo Ginoo sa tunga sang duta sang Egypt, kag patindugon man ang isa ka handumanan nga bato sa border sini.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Paawayon ko ang mga Egyptohanon: utod kontra sa utod, kasilingan kontra sa kasilingan, banwa kontra sa banwa, kag ginharian kontra sa ginharian.
Mangin tanda ini kag pamatuod sang presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa duta sang Egypt. Kon magpangayo sang bulig ang mga Egyptohanon sa Ginoo Ginoo tungod nga ginapaantos sila sang mga nagapamigos sa ila, padal-an niya sila sang magaluwas kag magadepensa sa ila.
Ipakilala sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kaugalingon sa ila, kag sa sina nga tion kilalahon nila ang Ginoo Ginoo . Simbahon nila siya paagi sa nagkalain-lain nga halad. Magapromisa sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag tumanon nila ang ila mga promisa.
Silutan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Egyptohanon sang kahalitan, pero ayuhon niya sila. Magadangop sila sa iya, kag pamatian niya ang ila mga pangamuyo kag ayuhon niya sila.
Sa sina nga tion, may ara sang malapad nga dalan halin sa Egypt pakadto sa Assyria. Ang mga Egyptohanon kag mga Assyrians magapakadto-pakari sa Egypt kag sa Assyria, kag magasimba sila sing tingob.
Sa sina nga tion, magaisa ang Israel sa Egypt kag sa Assyria, kag ining tatlo ka nasyon mangin pagpakamaayo sa kalibutan.
Bendisyunan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga nagasiling, “Ginapakamaayo ko ang Egypt nga akon katawhan, ang Assyria nga akon gintuga, kag ang Israel nga akon ginapanag-iyahan.”
Madulaan sang kaisog ang mga Egyptohanon, kag pasalahon ko sila sa ila mga plano. Magadangop sila sa mga dios-dios, sa mga kalag sang mga patay, sa mga babaylan kag sa mga espiritista.
Ipasakop ko sila sa gahom sang isa ka mapintas nga hari.” Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo, ang Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo .
Magahubas ang Suba sang Nilo sang Nilo hasta nga magmala ini.
Ang mga ginailigan sang suba magalang-og kag magamala. Magakalalaya ang mga matag-as nga mga hilamon,
pati ang mga tanom sa higad sang Suba sang Nilo. Magabagtik ang tanan nga uma malapit sa Suba sang Nilo, kag magakalamatay ang mga tanom sini.
Magahibi, magapanalambiton, kag magapalangluya ang mga manugpangisda sa Suba sang Nilo,
kag magapangasubo ang mga manughimo sang tela nga linen.
Suno sa sugo ni Haring Sargon sang Assyria, ginsalakay sang kumander sang mga soldado sang Assyria ang Ashdod, kag gin-agaw ini.
Antes ini natabo, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Isaias nga anak ni Amoz, “Ubaha ang imo bayo nga sako pati ang imo sandalyas.” Gintuman ini ni Isaias, kag naglakat-lakat siya nga wala sing bayo kag nagatiniil.
Sang ulihi Sang ulihi nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ang akon alagad nga si Isaias naglakat-lakat nga wala sing bayo kag nagatiniil sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig. Ini isa ka simbolo nga nagapaandam sa Egypt kag sa Ethiopia.
Kay pagabihagon sang hari sang Assyria ang mga taga-Egypt kag taga-Ethiopia,
Ang mga nagasalig sa Ethiopia kag nagapabugal sa Egypt matublag kag mahuy-an.
Sa tion nga matabo ini, magasiling ang mga Filistinhon,
Magahalin ini sa kamingawan, sa makahaladlok nga duta.
nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel.”
“Guwardya, san-o pa bala mag-aga?”
magbalik ka kag magpamangkot.”
nga nagapanglakaton nagakampo sa kamingawan sang Arabia,
maghatag kamo sang pagkaon sa mga tawo nga nagpalalagyo sa ila lugar.
ginalagas sila sang ila mga kaaway sang espada kag pana.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, “Sa sulod gid sang isa ka tuig, ang pagkagamhanan sang Kedar madula.
Diutay lang ang mabilin sa iya maisog nga mga manugpana. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Dios sang Israel, ang nagasiling sini.”
Pauntaton sang Dios ang pagpaantos niya sa iban nga mga nasyon.
pareho sang pagpasakit sang babayi nga manugbata.
kay ginakulbaan gihapon ako.
“Dali, magpreparar kamo sa inaway!”
kag pasugira siya sang iya makita.
magpahibalo siya dayon.”
“Sir, adlaw-gab-i ang akon pagbantay sa tore.
Ang tanan nga imahen sang iya mga dios-dios ara sa duta kag puro wasak.”
Ini nga mensahi parte sa pulopatag nga sa diin makita ang mga palanan-awon:
Gintan-aw ninyo ang mga balay sa Jerusalem kag gin-guba ang iban sini para gamiton ang mga bato sa pagkay-o sa pader sang siyudad.
Naghimo kamo sang pulunduhan sang tubig sa tunga sang duha ka pader, kag ginpuno ninyo ini sang tubig halin sa daan nga punong. Pero wala kamo nagsalig kag nagsapak sa Dios nga amo ang nagplano sini sang una pa, kag nagbuot nga matabo ini.
Nagtawag sa inyo ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom nga magpangasubo kag maghibi kamo. Ginhambalan niya kamo nga magpakalbo kag magsuksok sang sako sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo .
Sa baylo, nagsinadya kag nagselebrar kamo. Nag-ihaw kamo sang mga baka kag mga karnero, kag nagkinaon sang karne kag nag-ininom sang bino. Kay ang inyo rason, “Magpagusto kita, Kay ang inyo rason, “Magpagusto kita, magkaon kita kag mag-inom, kay basi kon mapatay na kita buwas.”
Nagsiling sa akon ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom, nga ining sala ninyo indi gid niya pagpatawaron hasta nga mapatay kamo.
Ginsugo ako sang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom nga kadtuan ko si Shebna, ang administrador sang palasyo, kag ihambal ini sa iya:
“Sin-o ka gid bala nga magguhab sa banglid kag maghimo sang imo lulubngan upod sa mga dungganon? Sin-o ang nagtugot sa imo sa paghimo sini?
Mag-andam ka! Bisan gamhanan ka pa, dakpon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ihaboy.
Tipulunon niya ikaw nga daw sa bola kag ihaboy sa isa ka malapad nga lugar. Didto ka mapatay, kag didto man magkalaguba ang ginapabugal mo nga mga karwahe. Nagahatag ka sang kahuy-anan sa panimalay sang imo agalon.”
Nagasiling ang Ginoo sa imo, Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo, “Pahalinon ko ikaw sa imo obra!
Nagasinalasala kag nagasininggit ang mga tawo sa bilog nga siyudad. Ang mga nagkalamatay sa inyo wala napatay sa inaway.
“Sa sina nga adlaw, ipatawag ko ang akon alagad nga si Eliakim nga anak ni Hilkia.
Ipasuksok ko sa iya ang imo pang-opisyal nga bayo kag wagkos, kag ihatag ko sa iya ang imo awtoridad. Mangin pareho siya sa isa ka amay sa mga taga-Jerusalem kag mga taga-Juda.
Itugyan ko sa iya ang yabi sang ginharian ni David. Kon abrihan niya ang puwertahan, wala sing may makasirado; kag kon siradhan niya, wala sing may makaabri.
Palig-unon ko siya sa iya posisyon pareho sang kalabitan sa dingding. Kag magahatag siya sang dungog sa iya pamilya.
Ang iya mga kabataan kag mga paryente magadepende sa iya. Pareho siya sa kalabitan nga may nagakalabit nga nagkalain-lain nga suludlan nga magagmay, halin sa mga yahong hasta sa mga tibod.
“Sa sina nga tion nga damo na ang nagakalabit sa iya nga damo na ang nagakalabit sa iya , mahulog siya kag magakalawasak ang tanan nga nagakabit sa iya. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagpalalagyo ang tanan ninyo nga pangulo, kag nadakpan sila nga wala sing gamo. Ang iban sa inyo nagtinguha nga magpalagyo, pero nadakpan man sila.
Karon, pabay-i ninyo ako nga maghibi sa akon mga kasimanwa nga nagkalamatay. Indi ninyo ako pag-uloulohi.
Kay gintalana sang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom ang ini nga tion sang paggirinual, pagdinalagan, kag pagsinalasala sang mga tawo sa pulopatag nga sa diin makita ang mga palanan-awon. Ang mga pader sini nagakalaguba, kag ang pagsininggit sang mga tawo mabatian hasta sa mga bukid.
Nagasalakay ang mga soldado sang Elam nga may mga pana kag nagasakay sa mga kabayo. Ang mga soldado sang Kir nagasalakay man nga may ginauyatan nga mga taming.
Ginalikupan nila ang inyo mapatubason nga mga kapatagan, kag nagatipon sila sa mga puwertahan sang inyo siyudad.
Naagaw nila ang mga depensa sang Juda. Nagkuha kamo sang inyo mga armas sa talaguan sini.
Gintan-aw ninyo ang mga pader sang Banwa ni David para mahibaluan ninyo kon diin ang mga guba sini. Nagtipon kamo sang tubig halin sa punong sa ubos.
Maghibi kamo nga mga nagasakay sa mga barko sang Tarshish! Kay naguba na ang inyo pantalan sa Tyre. Ginsugid na ini sa inyo sang mga naghalin sa Cyprus.
Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Tarshish, mag-agi kamo sing hilway sa Tyre pareho sa Suba sang Suba sang Nilo nga nagailig sing hilway nga nagailig sing hilway , tungod kay wala na sing may magpugong sa inyo.
Gin-untay sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kamot sa dagat sa paglaglag sini sa paglaglag sini , gani nagakulurog sa kahadlok ang mga ginharian. Nagmando siya nga gub-on ang mabakod nga depensa sang Fenicia.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Mga pumuluyo
Tan-awa bala ninyo ang duta sang mga taga-Babilonia.
Maghibi kamo nga mga nagabiyahe sa Tarshish, kay naguba na ang siyudad nga inyo dalangpan.
Pagakalimtan ang Tyre sa sulod sang 70 ka tuig, ang kalawigon sang kabuhi sang hari. Pero pagkatapos sina, mangin pareho siya sa isa ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas nga ginasambit sa sini nga kanta:
“Ikaw nga babayi nga nagabaligya sang imo lawas, ginkalimtan ka na. Gani kuhaa ang imo arpa, kag tukara ini sing maayo samtang nagalibot ka sa siyudad. Damua ang imo kanta, para madumduman ka.”
Pagkatapos sang 70 ka tuig, dumdumon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Tyre. Pero himuon liwat sang Tyre ang ginhimo niya sang una, nga pareho sang ginahimo sang babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas. Himuon niya ang malain para makakuwarta siya sa tanan nga ginharian sang kalibutan.
Pero sa ulihi ang iya maginansya indi pagtaguon kundi ihalad niya sa Ginoo Ginoo para ibakal sang madamo nga pagkaon kag sang maayo nga klase sang mga bayo para sa mga tawo nga nagaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Maghipos kamo nga mga nagaestar sa isla
sa mga kadagatan sa pagbakal kag pagbaligya sang mga patubas sang Shihor nga sakop sang Suba sang Nilo. Kag nagapakignegosyo sa inyo ang mga nasyon.
Mahuya ka, Sidon, nga dalangpan sang mga tawo nga nagaestar malapit sa dagat. Ginasikway ka na sang kadagatan nga nagasiling, “Wala na ako sing bata; wala ako sing may ginasagod nga bata nga lalaki ukon babayi.”
Masakitan ang mga Egyptohanon kon mabatian nila ang natabo sa Tyre.
Maghinibi kamo nga mga nagaestar sa isla. Tabok kamo sa Tarshish!
Sadto anay malipayon ining siyudad sang Tyre sang Tyre nga gintukod sang una nga panahon, nga ang iya katawhan nakaabot sa malayo nga mga lugar kag nagsakop sang sini nga mga lugar. Pero karon ano na ang natabo sa iya?
Sin-o bala ang nagplano sini sa Tyre, ang siyudad nga nagpanakop sang mga lugar, nga ang mga dungganon niya nga mga negosyante bantog sa kalibutan?
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom amo ang nagplano sini para paubuson ang nagapabugal sa iya pagkagamhanan kag ang mga ginakilala nga bantog sa kalibutan.
Pamati! Laglagon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang kalibutan
Mawasak ang siyudad kag indi na mapuslan. Siraduhon ang puwertahan sang kada balay para wala sing may makasulod.
Magasininggit ang mga tawo sa karsada, nga nagapangayo sang bino. Ang ila kalipay bayluhan sang kasubo. Wala na sing kinalipay sa kalibutan.
Ang siyudad magapabilin nga guba, nga wasak ang mga puwertahan sini.
Diutay na lang nga tawo ang mabilin sa tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan, pareho sa olibo ukon ubas matapos nga gindugos.
Ang mga tawo nga magkalabilin magahinugyaw sa kalipay. Ang ara sa west magasugid sang pagkagamhanan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ang mga tawo sa east kag sa mga lugar nga malapit sa dagat
Pero kaluluoy ako! Nagapalangluya na ako! Kay padayon gihapon ang pagluib sang mga traidor nga tawo.
Kamo nga mga katawhan sang kalibutan, nagahulat sa inyo ang kahadlok, buho, kag siod.
Magaulan sing mabaskog, kag magatay-og ang pundasyon sang kalibutan.
Magalitik ang duta, kag mapihak ini.
Isa lang ang dangatan sang tanan—pari ukon pumuluyo, agalon ukon ulipon, manugbaligya ukon manugbakal, manugpautang ukon manug-utang.
Daw sa magaduling-duling ini pareho sa hubog. Magauyog-uyog ini pareho sa payag nga ginahuyop sang hangin. Mabug-atan ini tungod sa sala, kag malaglag kag indi na makabangon liwat.
Sa sina nga tion, silutan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang langitnon nga mga tinuga,
Tipunon sila tanan sa buho pareho sa mga priso. Prisohon sila, kag sa ulihi silutan.
Magadulom ang adlaw kag bulan kay magahari ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa Bukid sang Zion, sa Jerusalem. Kag didto mapahayag ang iya gahom sa atubangan sang mga manugdumala sang iya katawhan.
Malaglag gid sing bug-os ang kalibutan kag magakalaubos ang mga butang diri. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang nagsiling sini.
Magamala kag magatig-a ang duta. Magaluya ang mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan, pati ang dungganon nga mga tawo.
Ginhigkuan ang kalibutan sang mga pumuluyo sini, tungod nga wala nila gintuman ang mga kasuguan kag mga pagsulundan sang Dios. Ginlapas nila ang wala sing katapusan nga kasugtanan sang Dios sa ila sang Dios sa ila .
Gani pakamalauton sang Dios ang kalibutan, kag magapanabat ang mga pumuluyo sini tungod sa ila mga sala. Sunugon sila, kag diutay lang ang mabilin sa ila.
Magakalaya ang mga ubas, kag maubos ang duga sang ubas. Magapangasubo ang mga nagakalipay,
kag indi na mabatian ang masadya nga tinukar sang mga tamborin kag mga arpa, kag ang paghinugyaw sang mga tawo nga nagaselebrar.
Wala na sing kinanta sa ila pag-ininom, kag ang ilimnon mangin mapait.
Ginoo Ginoo , ikaw ang akon Dios! Dayawon kag padunggan ko ikaw, kay makatilingala gid ang imo mga ginhimo. Gintuman mo gid ang imo mga ginplano sang una nga panahon.
Sa pagkamatuod, buligan sang Ginoo Ginoo ining Bukid sang Zion sang Zion , pero silutan niya ang Moab. Tasakon niya ini pareho sa dagami nga ginatasak sa ipot.
Tinguhaan nila nga makaluwas sa sina nga kahimtangan pareho sa tawo nga nagakapaykapay sa tubig. Pero bisan maayo pa sila maglangoy, lumsan gihapon sila sang Ginoo lumsan gihapon sila sang Ginoo Ginoo ; paubuson sila sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila pagkabugalon.
Rumpagon niya ang ila mataas kag mabakod nga mga pader hasta nga maglalapta ini sa duta.
Gin-guba mo ang napaderan nga mga banwa sang mga taga-iban nga nasyon. Ginwasak mo ang mabakod nga mga parte sang ila mga banwa, kag indi na ini mapatindog liwat.
Gani padunggan ka sang gamhanan nga mga katawhan, kag tahuron sang mapintas nga mga nasyon.
Ikaw ang mabakod nga dalangpan sang mga imol sa tion sang kalisod. Palasilungan ka sa mabaskog nga ulan kag init. Kay ang pagsalakay sang mapintas nga mga tawo pareho sang bagyo nga nagahampak sa pader,
kag pareho sang init sa desierto. Pero ginpahipos mo ang pagsininggit sang mga taga-iban nga nasyon. Ginpauntat mo ang pagkinanta sang mapintas nga mga tawo, pareho sang init nga nadula kay gintabunan sang panganod.
Diri sa Bukid sang Zion sang Zion , magapreparar ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sang isa ka punsyon para sa tanan nga katawhan. Mga manamit nga pagkaon kag ilimnon ang iya ipreparar.
Kag sa sini man nga bukid, pagakuhaon niya ang kasubo
Dulaon sang Ginoong Dios Dios ang kamatayon kag pahiran niya ang mga luha sang tanan nga tawo. Kuhaon niya ang kahuy-anan sang iya katawhan sa bilog nga kalibutan. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang nagsiling sini.
Kon matabo na ini, magasiling ang mga tawo: “Siya ang aton Dios! Nagsalig kita sa iya, kag ginluwas niya kita. Siya ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton ginsaligan. Magkalipay kita kag magsinadya kay ginluwas niya kita.”
Ang kaluwasan sang Dios pareho sa pader nga nagapalibot sa aton.
kag wala nila ginakilala ang imo pagkagamhanan.
Sila nga imo mga kaaway laglaga sang imo kalayo.
Kay ang tanan nga hinimuan namon nahimo namon tungod sa imo bulig.
pero ikaw lang gid ang amon ginasimba.
kag ginkalimtan na sila.
kag naghatag ini sang kadungganan sa imo.
kag sa ila kalisod nagdangop sila kag nagpanawag
nga nagasinggit tungod sa puwerte nga kasakit.
kag wala man namon nalaglag ang mga katawhan sa kalibutan nga amon mga kaaway nga amon mga kaaway .
ikaw Ginoo Ginoo magabanhaw sang mga patay.
ang nasyon nga matutom sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Mga kasimanwa, magsulod kamo sa inyo mga balay kag siraduhi ninyo ang inyo mga puwertahan. Panago anay kamo hasta madula ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kay nagaabot na siya halin sa iya ginaestaran para silutan ang mga pumuluyo sang kalibutan tungod sa ila mga sala. Ipahayag na sang duta ang mga tawo nga ginpamatay; indi na niya ini pagtaguon pa.
kay nagasalig siya sa imo.
kay ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang aton palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato hasta san-o.
Ginlaglag niya ang ila siyudad hasta nga nagkalarumpag ini sa duta.
Gintapak-tapak ini sang gindaogdaog nga mga imol.
kag ikaw, Matarong nga Dios, ang nagtapan sini.
Ang amon handom amo nga mapadunggan ka.
makatuon sila nga magkabuhi nga matarong.
Sa sina nga tion, gamiton sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya matalom kag gamhanan nga espada sa pagpatay sa Leviatan, ang nagasaog nga dragon sa dagat.
Nawasak na ang napaderan nga siyudad. Pareho na ini sang kamingawan; wala na sing may nagaestar diri. Nangin palahalban kag palahuwayan na lang ini sang mga baka. Ginaubos halab sang mga baka ang mga dahon sang mga sanga.
Kag sang nagkalalaya kag nagkalabali ang mga sanga, ginapangtipon ini sang mga babayi para igatong. Tungod kay ang mga katawhan sini wala sing pag-intiendi, indi sila pagkaluoyan sang Dios nga nagtuga sa ila.
Sa sina nga tion, tipunon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon halin sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates hasta sa ililigan sang tubig sang Egypt pareho sang pagtipon sang ginlinas nga trigo.
Pagtunog sang budyong sing mabaskog, magabalik sa Jerusalem ang mga Israelinhon nga nagaantos sa pagkabihag sa Assyria kag Egypt. Kag simbahon nila ang Ginoo Ginoo , sa balaan nga bukid sa Jerusalem.
Sa sina man nga tion, magakanta kamo parte sa mabungahon nga talamnan sang ubas.
Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagaatipan sining talamnan sang ubas. Ginabunyagan ko ini permi. Ginabantayan ko ini adlaw-gab-i para wala sing may makahalit.
Wala na ako nangakig sa sini nga talamnan. Pero sa tion nga may makita ako sa iya nga tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy, kontrahon ko siya kag sunugon.
Pero maluwas lang siya kon magpakig-abyan siya sa akon, kag magpangayo sang proteksyon sa akon.
Magaabot ang adlaw nga ang katawhan sang Israel, ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob, magapanggamot pareho sa tanom. Magapanalingsing ini kag magapamulak. Magapamunga ini sang madamo nga bunga nga magapuno sang bilog nga kalibutan.
Wala ginsilutan kag ginpamatay sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Israel pareho sang pagsilot kag pagpamatay niya sa mga kaaway sini.
Ginpabihag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya katawhan bilang silot sa ila. Gintabog niya sila paagi sa mabaskog nga hangin halin sa east.
Mapatawad lang sila kon gub-on nila ang ila mga halaran nga bato kag pudpuron nila ini sing mapino, kag dulaon nila ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera, kag ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan nila sang insenso.
Kaluluoy ang Samaria, nga pareho sa korokorona nga bulak, nga dungog sang palahubog nga mga pangulo nga mga pangulo sang Israel.
Kon magtudlo siya, litra por litra, linya por linya, leksyon por leksyon.”
Tungod nga indi sila magpamati, magapakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa sini nga mga tawo paagi sa mga taga-iban nga lugar nga lain ang lingguahe.
Amo ini ang iya ihambal: “Makaangkon kuntani kamo sang kapahuwayan sa inyo duta. Pero indi kamo gusto magpamati sa akon.”
Gani tudluan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo litra por litra, linya por linya, leksyon por leksyon. Kag matumba sila sa ila paglakat, mapilasan, masiod, kag madakpan.
Gani kamo nga mga nagapangyaguta nga mga manugdumala sang katawhan sang Jerusalem, pamatii ninyo ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo !
Kay nagapabugal kamo nga nagasiling, “Nakahimo kami sang kasugtanan sa kamatayon nga indi ini mag-ano sa amon nga indi ini mag-ano sa amon , kag nagsugtanay kami sang lugar sang mga patay nga indi kami pagdal-on didto nga indi kami pagdal-on didto . Gani indi kami maano bisan mag-abot man ang katalagman nga daw sa baha, kay nagasalig kami nga ang amon pagbinutig kag pagpangdaya makaprotektar sa amon.”
Gani amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : “Pamati! Mabutang ako sa Zion
Himuon ko nga inugtakos kag inugtunton ang hustisya kag pagkamatarong. Ipapalid ko sa bagyo kag ipaanod sa baha ang kabutigan nga inyo ginasaligan nga makaprotektar sa inyo.
Mangin wala sing pulos ang inyo kasugtanan sa kamatayon, kag ang inyo ginkasugtan sang lugar sang mga patay. Kay kon mag-abot ang katalagman nga daw sa baha, malaglag kamo.
Mahadlok gid kamo kon maintiendihan ninyo ini nga mensahi.
Pamati! May ginapreparar ang Ginoo nga isa ka makusog kag gamhanan nga nasyon nga nasyon nga magalaglag sa Samaria. Pareho ini sa makahalalit nga bagyo kag nagahuganas nga baha.
Kay pareho kamo sa tawo nga kabos ang iya ginahigdaan kag makitid ang iya habol.
Sa pagkamatuod, magasalakay ang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sa iya ginhimo sa Bukid sang Perazim kag sa Kapatagan sang Gibeon. Himuon niya ang butang nga wala ginapaabot sang iya katawhan.
Gani karon indi na kamo magyaguta, kay basi kon dugangan pa niya ang iya silot sa inyo. Kay nabatian ko gid mismo ang ginmando sang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom nga laglagon niya ang inyo bilog nga duta.
Pamatii ninyo sing maayo ang akon ginasiling.
Magsagi na lang bala arado ang mangunguma, kag indi magtanom?
Indi bala nga kon handa na ang duta, ginasab-ugan niya ini sang nagkalain-lain nga binhi sa tagsa ka talamnan sini, pareho sang binhi sang mga panakot, trigo, barley kag espelta?
Nahibaluan niya kon ano ang husto nga himuon kay ginatudluan siya sang Dios.
Wala niya ginagamitan sang tapi nga panglinas nga may mga ulounto ang mga inani nga mga panakot kundi ginahampas niya ini sang lipak.
Ang uyas nga ginahimo nga tinapay madali madugmok, gani wala niya ini ginasagi linas. Ginagamitan niya ini sang karo nga may mga kabayo sa paglinas, pero ginasiguro niya nga indi ini magkaladugmok.
Ini nga kaalam halin sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom. Maayo gid ang iya laygay kag puwerte gid ang iya kaalam.
Pagatasakon niya ang Samaria, nga pareho sa korokorona nga bulak, nga dungog sang palahubog nga mga pangulo nga mga pangulo sang Israel.
Ini nga siyudad nahamtang sa mapatubason nga patag, pero ang iya katahom madula pareho sa bulak nga nagakalaya. Malaglag ini gilayon pareho sa nahauna nga mga bunga sang higera nga ginakuha kag ginakaon dayon sang kada may makakita.
Sa sina nga tion, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom mangin pareho sa matahom nga korokorona nga bulak sa iya nagkalabilin nga mga katawhan.
Hatagan niya sang handom ang mga manughukom nga paharion nila ang hustisya. Kag hatagan niya sang kaisog ang mga soldado nga nagaguwardya sa siyudad kontra sa mga kaaway.
Pero karon nagaduling-duling sa kahubog ang mga pari kag mga propeta kag wala na sa husto nga paminsaron. Ang mga propeta sala na ang ila pag-intiendi sa palanan-awon, kag ang mga pari indi na husto ang ila desisyon.
Ang ila mga lamisa puno sang ila mga suka. Wala gid sing parte sang lamisa nga matinlo.
Nagareklamo pa sila nga nagasiling, Nagareklamo pa sila nga nagasiling, “Ano bala ang hunahuna niya sa aton, mga bata nga bag-o lang nalutas? Ngaa amo ina ang panudlo niya sa aton?
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kaluluoy ang Jerusalem,
Kay daw sa ginpatulog kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sing mahamuok. Gintabunan niya ang inyo mga ulo kag mga mata nga wala sing iban kundi ang inyo mga propeta.
Para sa inyo, ini tanan nga ginpahayag sa inyo daw sa linukot nga kasulatan nga sirado. Kon ipabasa mo ini sa tawo nga kahibalo magbasa, masiling siya, “Indi ko ina mabasa tungod kay sirado.”
Kag kon ipabasa mo sa indi kahibalo magbasa, masiling siya, “Indi ako kahibalo magbasa.”
Nagasiling ang Ginoo, “Ini nga katawhan nagadayaw kag nagapadungog sa akon sa baba lang, pero ang ila tagipusuon malayo sa akon. Kag ang ila pagsimba sa akon suno lang sa mga pagsulundan sang tawo.
Gani patingalahon ko liwat ang ini nga katawhan sang sunod-sunod nga makatilingala nga mga butang. Kag dulaon ko ang kaalam sang mga tawo nga maalam kag ang pag-intiendi sang mga may tinun-an.”
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga nagatago sang inyo mga plano sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagahimo kamo sang inyo mga buluhaton sa madulom, kag nagasiling kamo, “Wala sing may makakita ukon makahibalo sang aton ginahimo.”
Mga balingag kamo! Ginakabig ninyo nga daw sa kolon ang manughimo sang kolon.
Sa indi madugay ang kagulangan sang kagulangan sang Lebanon mangin mapatubason nga latagon, kag ang mapatubason nga latagon mangin kagulangan.
Sa sina nga tion, ang bungol makabati sa ginabasa halin sa linukot nga kasulatan. Kag ang bulag, nga ang iya lang makita amo ang kadulom, makakita.
Magakalipay liwat ang mga mapainubuson kag ang mga imol tungod sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.
Pero salakayon ko ini, kag magahinibi kag magapanalambiton ang iya sini mga pumuluyo. Kag para sa akon, ang bilog nga siyudad mangin pareho sa halaran nga nabulit sang dugo.
Tungod kay madula ang mga mapintas kag nagapangyaguta nga mga tawo. Magakalamatay ang tanan nga mahilig sa pagpakasala
pati ang tanan nga nagaakusar sang indi matuod, ang mga nagapadihot para makombinsi ang mga hukom, kag ang mga nagabinutig nga saksi para indi mahatagan sang hustisya ang mga inosente.
Gani ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios nga nagluwas kay Abraham nagsiling parte sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob, “Sugod karon, wala na sila sing dapat ikahuya ukon kahadlukan.
Kay kon makita nila nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob ang akon mga binuhatan sa ila, tahuron nila ako, ang Balaan nga Dios ni Jacob, kag kilalahon nila ang akon pagkabalaan. Kahadlukan nila ako ako nga Dios sang Israel.
Ang mga nalibugan makaintiendi na sang kamatuoran, kag ang mga nagareklamo magakalipay na kon tudluan.”
Kibunon ko ang siyudad sang Jerusalem. Palibutan ko ini sang mga tore-tore sa pagsalakay sini, kag magatumpok ako sang mga duta sa kilid sang pader para mataklas ini.
Malaglag ini, kag mangin pareho sa isa ka murto nga nagapanawag halin sa idalom sang duta, nga ang iya tingog hungaw.
Pero sa ulihi ang iya madamo nga kaaway nga mapintas mangin pareho sa yab-ok ukon upa nga palidon sang hangin. Gulpi lang ini matabo sa ila.
Dumdumon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom ang Jerusalem, kag magaabot siya kag magaabot siya nga may daguob, linog, ginahod, buhawi, bagyo, kag nagadabadaba nga kalayo.
Kamo nga mga taga-Juda, Kamo nga mga taga-Juda, buanga ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon kag magpakabuang kamo. Bulaga ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon kag magpakabulag kamo. Hubog kamo kag nagaduling-duling pero indi tungod sa bino.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kaluluoy ang akon akon mga anak nga mga rebelde. Nagahimo sila sang mga plano nga indi halin sa akon. Nagahimo sila sang kasugtanan nga wala ko ginatuguti. Gani nagadugang pa gid ang ila sala.
Nagasiling sila sa mga propeta, ‘Indi na ninyo kami pagsugiri sang mga ginpahayag sang Dios sa inyo. Indi na ninyo kami pagsugiri sang husto. Sugiri kami sang mga butang nga makapalipay sa amon kag mga palanan-awon nga indi matabo.
Halin kamo sa amon alagyan; indi ninyo kami paglambayi. Indi na kami pagsugiri parte sa Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.’ ”
Gani nagasiling ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, “Tungod nga ginsikway ninyo ang akon mensahi kag nagsalig sa pagpamigos kag pagpangdaya,
malaglag kamo gilayon. Ang inyo sala pareho sa litik nga makaparumpag gulpi sa mataas nga pader.
Madugmok kamo pareho sa kolon, nga tungod sa puwerte nga pagkadugmok wala gid sing parte nga mabutangan sang baga ukon magamit para isandok sang tubig.”
Nagasiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, “Magbalik kamo sa akon kag magkalma kay luwason ko kamo. Magpakalinong kamo kag magsalig sa akon kay pabaskugon ko kamo. Pero indi ninyo gusto himuon ini.
Nagsiling kamo, ‘Magapalagyo kami sa amon mga kaaway sa amon mga kaaway paagi sa madasig nga mga kabayo.’ Huo, magapalagyo kamo, pero mas madasig pa gid ang magalagas sa inyo.
Ang isa lang sa ila makapatal-as sa isa ka libo ninyo nga mga soldado. Kag ang lima sa ila makapatal-as sa inyo tanan. Mangin pareho kamo sa tukon sang bandera nga nagaisahanon sa putokputokan sang bukid.”
Pero nagahulat ang Ginoo Ginoo nga magpalapit kamo sa iya para kaluoyan niya kamo. Handa siya nga ipakita ang iya pagkabalaka sa inyo. Kay ang Ginoo Ginoo matarong nga Dios, kag bulahan ang tanan nga nagasalig sa iya.
Kamo nga katawhan sang Zion, nga mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem, indi na kamo maghibi liwat! Kaluoyan gid kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kon magpangayo kamo sang bulig sa iya. Kon mabatian niya ang inyo pangamuyo, sabton niya kamo.
Nagkadto sila sa Egypt para magpangayo sang proteksyon sa hari, nga wala man lang sila nagpamangkot sa akon.
Bisan ginhatagan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang kasakit kag kabudlayan nga daw inyo kalan-on kag ilimnon, siya nga inyo manunudlo indi na magpanago sa inyo. Makita ninyo siya
kag mabatian ninyo ang iya tingog nga nagatuytoy sa inyo sa husto nga dalan, bisan diin pa kamo.
Kahigkuan ninyo ang inyo mga dios-dios, nga nahaklapan sang pilak kag bulawan. Ihaboy ninyo ini nga daw mahigko nga panapton kag magsiling, “Indi ko gusto nga makita pa kamo!”
Hatagan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sang ulan sa tion sang tigtalanom, kag magabugana ang inyo patubas. Sa sina nga tion, magahalab ang inyo mga sapat sa malapad nga mga palahalban.
Ang inyo mga baka kag mga donkey nga ginaarado magahalab sang manami nga kumpay.
Sa sina nga tion nga pamatyon ang inyo mga kaaway kag panggub-on ang ila mga tore, magailig ang tubig halin sa tagsa ka mataas nga bukid.
Magasanag ang bulan pareho sang adlaw, kag ang adlaw naman magasanag sing pito ka pilo, pareho sang sanag sa pito ka adlaw nga gintingob sa isa lang ka adlaw. Matabo ini sa tion nga bulngon kag ayuhon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang pilas nga ginhatag niya sa inyo nga iya katawhan.
Pamati! Nagaabot ang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa malayo nga puwerte ang iya kaakig kag nalikupan siya sang aso. Ang iya mga pulong nga may kaakig daw sa nagadabadaba nga kalayo.
Ang iya ginhawa daw sa baha nga nagalab-ot sa liog. Ginalaglag niya ang mga nasyon nga daw ginaayag nga trigo. Pareho sila sa sapat nga ginbusalan kag gin-guyod.
Pero kamo nga katawhan sang Dios magakanta pareho sang ginahimo ninyo sa gab-i nga nagasaulog kamo sang piesta sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo . Magakalipay kamo pareho sang mga tawo nga nagamartsa sa tunog sang plawta samtang nagapakadto sila sa Bukid sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagsimba sa iya nga amo ang palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato sang Israel.
Pero mahuy-an lang sila sa ila pagpangayo sang proteksyon sa hari sang Egypt.
Ipabati sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya nagadaguhob nga tingog, kag ipakita niya ang iya kamot nga handa na nga magsilot sa sobra nga kaakig. Pagaupdan ini sang nagadabadaba nga kalayo, hinali nga pagbundak
Sigurado nga mahadlukan ang mga taga-Assyria kon mabatian nila ang tingog sang Ginoo Ginoo . Silutan niya sila sing puwerte gid.
Salakayon niya sila sa inaway. Kag sa kada hampak sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila, dungan ini sa tunog sang tamborin kag arpa.
Dugay na nga napreparar ang lugar nga pagasunugan para sa hari sang Assyria. Malapad kag madalom ini nga lugar, kag natangkas na sing mataas ang mga gatong. Ang ginhawa sang Ginoo Ginoo nga daw sa nagadabadaba nga asupre amo ang magapadabdab sa mga gatong.
Kay bisan nagagahom ang hari sang Egypt hasta sa Zoan kag Hanes,
mahuy-an lang ang Juda tungod nga ang katawhan sang Egypt wala gid sing may ibulig sa ila kundi nagadala lang sang kahuy-anan.”
Amo ini ang mensahi sang Dios parte sa mga sapat sa Negev: Gilatas sang mga taga-Juda ang kamingawan nga mabudlay agyan, nga may mga leon, kag dalitan nga mga man-og, nga ang iban daw daw nagalupad. Ginakarga nila ang ila mga manggad sa mga donkey kag mga camel para iregalo sa nasyon nga indi man lang makabulig sa ila.
Ini nga nasyon amo ang Egypt, nga ang iya bulig wala sing pulos. Gani ginatawag ko ini nga “Dragon
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Dali, isulat sa malapad nga bato ukon sa linukot nga sululatan ang akon akusasyon kontra sa mga Israelinhon ang akon akusasyon kontra sa mga Israelinhon para permanente ini nga magapamatuod sa palaabuton nga panahon kon ano kalaot sa ila.
Kay mga rebelde sila, mga butigon, kag indi nila gusto nga magpamati sa akon mga ginatudlo.
Kaluluoy kamo nga nagapangayo sang bulig sa Egypt. Nagasalig kamo sa madasig nila nga mga kabayo, sa madamo nila nga mga karwahe, kag sa makusog nila nga mga manugkabayo. Pero wala kamo nagasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, kag wala kamo nagapangayo sang bulig sa iya.
Sa kaalam sang Ginoo Ginoo magapadala siya sang kalaglagan; indi niya gid pagbawion ang iya ginhambal. Silutan niya ang panimalay sang malain nga mga tawo kag ang mga nagabulig sa ila.
Ang mga Egyptohanon mga tawo lang kag indi Dios. Ang ila mga kabayo indi mga espiritu kundi pareho man sa iban nga mga kabayo. Kon magsilot na gani ang Ginoo Ginoo , malaglag ang Egypt pati ang mga nasyon nga ginabuligan sini. Pareho sila nga malaglag.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Wala sing may makapugong sa leon sa pagtukob sang iya mabiktima bisan magsinggit pa ang mga manugbantay sang sapat. Pareho man sa akon, wala sing may makapugong sa akon sa pagprotektar sa Jerusalem.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, magabantay sini pareho sa pispis nga nagabantay sang iya pugad. Protektaran kag luwason ko ang Jerusalem.”
Mga Israelinhon, magbalik na kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ginkontra gid ninyo.
Kay magaabot ang tion nga isikway ninyo ang inyo mga dios-dios nga pilak kag bulawan, nga ginhimo ninyo sa inyo pagkamakasasala.
Magakalamatay ang mga taga-Assyria, pero indi paagi sa espada sang tawo. Magapalagyo sila sa inaway, kag mangin ulipon ang ila mga pamatan-on.
Magapalagyo ang ila mga soldado
May isa ka hari nga magahari sing matarong, kag ang iya mga opisyal magadumala sing husto.
Magkurog kamo sa kahadlok, kamo nga mga babayi nga nagapatawhay-tawhay lang kag wala sing may ginakabalak-an. Ubaha ninyo ang inyo mga bayo kag magtampi kamo sang sako.
Pukpuka ninyo ang inyo mga dughan sa kasubo tungod sa matabo sa inyo mapatubason nga uma kag talamnan sang ubas.
Ang duta sang akon katawhan pagatubuan sang mga tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy kag mga hilamon. Kag madula ang malipayon nga mga panimalay kag masadya nga siyudad.
Ang masako nga siyudad indi na pag-estaran kag ang mabakod nga parte sini pabay-an na lang. Ang bulobukid kag tore sini mangin pareho sa kamingawan hasta san-o. Magalagaw-lagaw diri ang mga donkey kag magahalab ang mga kasapatan.
Matabo ini hasta nga ipadala sa aton ang Espiritu halin sa langit. Dayon ang kamingawan mangin mapatubason nga latagon, kag ang mapatubason nga latagon mangin kagulangan.
Magapabilin ang hustisya kag pagkamatarong sa kamingawan kag sa mapatubason nga latagon.
Ang bunga sang pagkamatarong amo ang maayo nga kahimtangan, kalinong, kag kasiguruhan hasta san-o.
Kamo nga mga katawhan sang Dios magaestar sa malinong nga mga puluy-an, nga wala sing katalagman. Kag wala sing may magtublag sa inyo.
Bisan magkalaguba ang kagulangan kag ang mga siyudad tungod sang mga yelo nga daw mga bato,
Ang tagsa sa ila pareho sang palalipdan sa makusog nga hangin kag bagyo. Pareho man sila sa sapa nga nagailig sa desierto, kag sa handong sang dako nga bato sa mainit kag mamala nga lugar.
pakamaayuhon kamo sang Dios. Mangin bugana ang tubig para sa inyo mga tanom, kag hilway ang inyo mga kasapatan sa paghalab bisan diin.
Magapangita kag magapamati ang mga tawo sa Dios sa Dios .
Ang nagapadasodaso magahunahuna sing maayo para mahibaluan niya kon ano ang iya himuon. Ang tawo nga indi makahibalo kon ano ang iya ihambal, makahambal sing maayo kag klaro.
Ang mga buang-buang indi na pagtawgon nga dungganon, kag ang mga dayaon indi na pagtahuron.
Kay kabuangan ang ginahambal sang buang-buang, kag ang malain niya nga hunahuna nagaplano sa paghimo sang mga indi diosnon nga mga buluhaton.Nagasugid siya sang kabutigan parte sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginapabay-an niya ang mga ginagutom kag ginauhaw.
Malain ang mga pamaagi sang dayaon nga tawo. Nagapadihot siya sa paglaglag sang mga imol paagi sa pagbinutig, bisan sa tion nga magpangayo sang hustisya ang mga imol.
Pero ang matuod nga dungganon nga tawo nagaplano sa paghimo sang dungganon nga mga butang, kag ginahimo gid niya ini permi.
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manuglaglag nga wala pa makaagi nga ginlaglag. Kaluluoy kamo nga mga traidor, nga wala pa makaagi nga gintraiduran. Kon matapos na ang inyo pagpanglaglag kag pagpangtraidor, kamo na man ang laglagon kag traiduran.
Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Amo na ini ang tion nga magahulag ako, kag padunggan ako sang mga tawo.
Kamo nga mga taga-Assyria, wala sing pulos ang inyo mga ginaplano kag ginahimo. Ang inyo kaakig
Masunog kamo hasta nga mangin pareho kamo sa apog. Mangin pareho kamo sa tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy nga ginpang-utod kag ginsunog.
Kamo nga mga nasyon sa malayo kag sa malapit, pamatii ninyo ang akon mga ginhimo kag kilalaha ninyo ang akon pagkagamhanan.”
Nagakulurog sa kahadlok ang mga makasasala sa Jerusalem.
Ang makaestar diri amo lang ang mga tawo nga nagakabuhi sing matarong kag nagasugid sing matuod. Wala sila nagapanguwarta, kag wala nagabaton sang lagay. Wala sila nagapartisipar sa plano sa pagpatay kag sa paghimo sang iban pa nga malain nga butang.
Amo ini nga klase sang mga tawo ang mahilway sa katalagman, nga daw mahilway sa katalagman, nga daw magaestar sila sa mataas nga mga lugar, nga ang ila palalipdan amo ang mga dalagko nga mga bato. Indi sila mawad-an sang pagkaon kag tubig.
Mga Israelinhon, Mga Israelinhon, makita ninyo
Madumduman ninyo ang makahaladlok nga tion nga nagkadto sa inyo ang mga opisyal sang Assyria kag nag-isip kon pila ang inyo mga tore kag kon pila ang makuha nila nga mga pagkabutang sa inyo.
Pero indi na ninyo makita inang bugalon
Ginoo Ginoo , kaluoyi kami. Nagasalig kami sa imo. Pabaskuga kami adlaw-adlaw, kag luwasa kami sa tion sang kalisod.
Tan-awa ninyo ang Zion, ang Jerusalem, ang siyudad nga ginahiwatan ta sang aton natalana nga mga piesta. Makita ninyo ini nga malinong kag mabakod. Pareho ini sa tolda nga ang iya mga palpal indi magabot kag ang mga higot indi mabugto.
Sa sini nga lugar ipakita sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton nga gamhanan siya. Ang Jerusalem mangin pareho sa isa ka lugar nga may malapad nga mga suba kag mga sapa nga indi matabok sang sakayan sang mga kaaway.
Himuon ini sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod kay siya amo ang aton manughukom, manughimo sang kasuguan,
Karon ang Jerusalem pareho sa sakayan nga halog ang mga higot kag halog ang palo,
Wala sing pumuluyo sa Jerusalem nga magasiling, “Masakiton ako.” Patawaron sang Dios ang ila mga sala.
Nagapalalagyo ang mga tawo sa imo tingog nga nagadaguhob. Kon magtindog ka sa pagsilot sa pagsilot nagalalapta ang mga nasyon.
Panguhaon ang ila mga pagkabutang; mangin pareho sila sa tanom nga ginsalakay sang apan.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo labaw sa tanan! Nagapuyo siya sa langit. Paluntaron niya ang hustisya kag pagkamatarong sa Jerusalem.
Palig-unon niya kamo
Pamati! Ang inyo maisog nga mga tawo nagasinggit sa pagpangayo sang bulig sang bulig sa mga karsada; nagahilibion ang inyo mga embahador nga nagatinguha nga mapahari ang kalinong.
Wala na sing may nagaagi sa karsada; wala na sing mga tawo nga nagalakat dira. Ginalapas na ang kasugtanan kag ginabaliwala ang mga saksi sini.
Kaluluoy ang duta sang Israel sang Israel . Nagkalalaya ang kakahuyan sa Lebanon, kag nahuy-an ini. Nangin kamingawan ang kapatagan sang kapatagan sang Sharon. Nagkaladagas ang mga dahon sang mga kahoy sa Bashan kag Carmel.
Kamo nga mga nasyon, palapit kamo kag magpamati sing maayo. Magpamati ang bilog nga kalibutan kag ang tanan nga ara sa iya.
Indi ini mapatay adlaw-gab-i. Ang aso sini magatub-ok sa wala sing katapusan. Wala na sing may mag-estar kag mag-agi sa Edom hasta san-o.
Pagaestaran ini sang mga bukaw kag mga uwak.
Pagatawgon ini nga “Wala sing Pulos nga Ginharian.” Madula ang tanan niya nga mga manugdumala.
Magatubo ang mga tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy sa ila napaderan nga mga banwa kag sa mabakod nga mga parte sini. Kag dira magaestar ang mga bukaw kag ang talunon nga mga ido.
Ang talunon nga mga sapat kag ang mga hyena magakilita didto. Ang maila nga mga kanding didto magatawag sa ila mga kaupod, kag ang demonyo nga nagaguwa kon gab-i magakadto didto sa pagpahuway.
Ang mga bukaw magapugad didto, magaitlog, magabuto, kag protektaran nila ang ila mga buto sa idalom sang ila mga pakpak. Ang mga uwak magatipon man didto nga nagaparis-paris.
Tan-awa ninyo sa linukot nga kasulatan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag basaha. Wala sing bisan isa sa mga ginhambal ko nga indi matuman Wala sing bisan isa sa mga ginhambal ko nga indi matuman . Wala sing isa sa sadto nga mga sapat nga madula, kag wala sing isa sa ila nga wala sing pares. Kay ginbuot ini sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag siya mismo
Siya ang magapartida sang duta sa mga sapat. Panag-iyahan nila ini hasta san-o, kag didto sila magaestar sa wala sing katapusan.
Kay akig ang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga nasyon, naugot siya sa ila mga soldado. Gani laglagon niya sila sing bug-os.
Indi pag-ilubong ang ila mga bangkay, gani magasungaw ang baho sini, kag ang mga bukid magapula sang ila mga dugo.
Matunaw ang tanan nga butang sa kalangitan, kag madula mismo madula mismo ang kalangitan nga daw sa linukot nga papel. Magakalahulog ang mga bituon pareho sa mga dahon sang ubas ukon higera nga nagkalalaya kag nagkaladagas.
Pagkatapos gamit sang Ginoo Ginoo sang iya espada sa kalangitan, matupa naman ini sa Edom, ang katawhan nga iya laglagon sa pagsilot sa ila.
Ang espada sang Ginoo Ginoo mabulit sang dugo kag tambok, nga daw sa gin-gamit sa pag-ihaw sang mga halad nga kanding kag karnero. Ini tungod kay pamatyon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga tawo sa Bozra bilang halad. Damo ang iya pamatyon sa iban pa nga mga banwa sang Edom.
Pamatyon man ang ila gamhanan nga mga tawo nga pareho sa talunon nga mga baka kag makusog nga turo nga baka. Ang ila duta mapuno sang dugo kag tambok.
Kay may ginatigana nga tion ang Ginoo Ginoo nga magabalos siya sa iya mga kaaway sa pagbulig sa Jerusalem.
Ang mga sapa sa Edom mangin alkitran kag ang duta mangin asupre. Ang bilog nga nasyon mangin alkitran nga nagadabadaba.
Magakalipay ang desierto nga daw sa tawo. Magapamuskad
Ini sila magabalik sa Jerusalem
Magakanta kag magahugyaw sa kalipay ang kamingawan nga daw sa tawo, kag magapamuskad sing madamo ang mga bulak sini. Mangin matahom ini pareho sa Bukid sang Lebanon. Kag mangin mapatubason pareho sa latagon sang Carmel kag Sharon. Makita dira ang gahom kag pagkahalangdon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios.
Gani pabaskuga ninyo ang mga nagakaluya.
Hambali ang mga ginahadlukan nga, “Magpakabakod kamo kag indi magkahadlok. Nagaabot ang inyo Dios sa pagbalos sa inyo mga kaaway, kag luwason niya kamo.”
Dayon makakita na ang bulag kag makabati ang bungol.
Magatumbo-tumbo ang piang pareho sa usa, kag magasinggit sa kalipay ang apa. Magasagawak ang tubig sa desierto, kag magailig ang mga sapa sa kamingawan.
Ang mainit nga balas mangin katubigan, kag ang mamala nga duta mangin tuburan. Magatubo ang sari-sari nga mga hilamon sa mga lugar nga ginaestaran sadto sang talunon nga mga ido.
Pagabutangan sang malapad nga dalan sa sadto nga desierto, kag pagatawgon ini nga dalan nga “Balaan nga Dalan.” Wala sing makasasala kag buang-buang nga makaagi didto. Ang mga tawo lang nga nagasunod sa mga pamaagi sang Dios ang makaagi.
Wala sing mga leon ukon sang bisan ano nga klase sang mapintas nga mga sapat nga makaagi didto. Ang mga ginluwas
Sang ika-14 nga tuig sang paghari ni Hezekia sa Juda sa Juda , ginsalakay ni Haring Senakerib sang Assyria ang tanan nga napaderan nga mga banwa sang Juda, kag gin-agaw niya ini.
Nagahunahuna bala siya nga wala ako pagsugua sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagkadto diri sa paglaglag sang sini nga nasyon? Ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang nagsugo sa akon sa pagsalakay kag sa paglaglag sang sini nga nasyon.”
Amo ini ang iya ginasiling: Indi kamo magpatunto kay Hezekia. Indi siya makaluwas sa inyo!
“Indi kamo magpamati kay Hezekia! Amo ini ang ginasiling sang hari sang Assyria: Indi na kamo magkontra sa akon; magsurender na lang kamo! Dayon tugutan ko kamo nga makakaon sang bunga sang inyo ubas kag higera, kag makainom sa inyo mga pulunduhan sang tubig,
hasta nga magabalik ako kag dal-on ko kamo sa duta nga pareho sang inyo duta—ang duta nga may mga talamnan sang ubas nga makahatag sa inyo sang bino, kag may mga uyas nga mahimo ninyo nga tinapay.
Indi kamo magpatalang kay Hezekia kon magsiling siya nga luwason kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo . May mga dios bala sa bisan diin nga nasyon nga nakaluwas sa ila nasyon sa kamot sang hari sang Assyria?
May nahimo bala ang mga dios sang Hamat, Arpad kag Sefarvaim? Naluwas bala sang mga dios
Kag samtang didto si Senakerib sa Lakish, ginsugo niya ang iya kumander upod sa madamo nga soldado nga magkadto sa Jerusalem sa pagpakigkita kay Haring Hezekia. Sang didto na ang kumander sa guwa sang Jerusalem, Sang didto na ang kumander sa guwa sang Jerusalem, nagpundo siya kag ang iya mga soldado kag ang iya mga soldado malapit sa ililigan sang ibabaw nga punong, didto dampi sa dalan pakadto sa lugar nga ginapanglabhan.
Sin-o sa mga dios sang sini nga mga nasyon ang nakaluwas sa ila nasyon sa akon? Gani paano maluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Jerusalem sa akon mga kamot?”
Pero wala nagsabat ang mga tawo, kay nagmando si Haring Hezekia nga indi sila magsabat.
Dayon gin-gisi ni Eliakim nga anak ni Helkia, Shebna nga sekretaryo, kag Joa ang ila mga bayo sa kasubo sa kasubo , kag nagkadto sila kay Hezekia kag ginsugid ang mga ginsiling sang kumander.
Nagkadto sa iya si Eliakim nga anak ni Hilkia, nga administrador sang palasyo, si Shebna nga sekretaryo, kag si Joa nga anak ni Asaf, nga manugdumala sang mga kasulatan sang ginharian.
“Ano bala ang imo ginasaligan?
Pero basi kon magsiling ka sa akon nga nagasalig kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Pero indi bala nga ginpaguba mo gani ang iya mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar pati ang mga halaran sini, kag ginhambalan mo ang mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem nga dapat magsimba sila sa isa lang ka halaran?”
Nagsiling pa gid ang kumander, Nagsiling pa gid ang kumander, “Karon, silinga ninyo si Hezekia nga may ginatanyag sa iya ang akon agalon, ang hari sang Assyria. Hatagan siya namon sang 2,000 ka kabayo, ina kon may 2,000 man siya ka manugkabayo!
Wala gid siya padaog bisan sa pinakanubo nga opisyal sang akon agalon. Nagasalig man lang siya sa Egypt nga maghatag sa iya sang mga karwahe kag mga manugkabayo.
Sang pagkabati ni Haring Hezekia sa ginbalita sa iya, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo kag nagsuksok sang sako sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo , kag nagkadto siya sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
May nahimo bala ang mga hari sang Hamat, Arpad, Sefarvaim, Hena, kag Iva.”
Dayon nagpangamuyo siya,
“ Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, Dios sang Israel nga nagapungko sa trono sa tunga-tunga sang mga kerubin, ikaw lang ang Dios nga nagadumala sa tanan nga ginharian diri sa kalibutan. Ginhimo mo ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan.
Matuod, Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginpanglaglag sang mga hari sang Assyria ang madamo nga nasyon,
pati ang ila sini mga dios-dios paagi sa paghaboy sini sa kalayo. Kay indi ini matuod nga mga dios kundi mga bato lang kag mga kahoy nga ginhimo sang tawo.
Ginpakadto niya kay Isaias nga anak ni Amoz sila ni Eliakim nga administrador sang palasyo, si Shebna nga sekretaryo, kag ang mga nagapangulo nga mga pari. Tanan sila nagasuksok sang sako.
Dayon nagpadala si Isaias nga anak ni Amoz sang sini nga mensahi kay Hezekia: Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: Tungod kay nagpangamuyo ka parte kay Haring Senakerib sang Assyria,
amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa iya: “Ginakadlawan kag ginainsulto ka sang mga pumuluyo sang Zion,
Sin-o bala ang imo gin-insulto kag ginyaguta? Sin-o bala ang ginpataasan mo sang imo tingog kag ginpabugalan? Indi bala ako, ako, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel?
Paagi sa imo mga alagad, ginyaguta mo ako. Nagsiling ka pa, ‘Paagi sa akon madamo nga karwahe nasaka ko ang mataas nga mga bukid, ang putokputokan sang mga bukid sang Lebanon. Ginpangtapas ko ang iya pinakamataas nga sedro kag pinakamaayo nga sipres.
Nagpakutkot ako sang mga bubon sa iban nga mga lugar,
“Matuod nga ginpangguba mo ang napaderan nga mga banwa. Pero wala ka bala nakahibalo nga madugay ko na ini nga ginpat-od? Dugay ko na ini nga ginplano nga matabo, kag karon ginatuman ko na ini.
Ang mga pumuluyo sang mga banwa nga ginpangguba mo nadulaan sang kusog; nahadlok sila kag nahuy-an. Pareho sila sa mga hilamon sa latagon ukon sa mga hilamon nga nagatubo sa atop sang balay, nga sang pag-ulhot nalaya dayon.
“Pero nahibaluan ko kon diin ka nagatiner, ukon diin ka nagahalin ukon nagakadto, kag kon ano ang imo kaakig sa akon.
Tungod kay nabatian ko ang imo kaakig sa akon kag ang imo pagpabugal, kaw-itan ko ang imo ilong kag busalan ang imo baba, kag guyuron pabalik sa imo ginhalinan, sa dalan nga imo gin-agyan.”
Pag-abot nila kay Isaias, nagsiling sila sa iya, “Amo ini ang ginasiling ni Hezekia: Nagaantos kita sa sini nga tion; ginasilutan
Dayon nagsiling si Isaias kay Dayon nagsiling si Isaias kay Hezekia, “Amo ini ang tanda nga proteksyunan sang Ginoo ang Jerusalem sa mga taga-Assyria nga proteksyunan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Jerusalem sa mga taga-Assyria : Karon nga tuig ang inyo kaunon amo ang mga bunga sang mga tanom nga nagtubo lang, kag sa sunod nga tuig amo ang mga bunga naman sang mga tanom nga nagtubo sa gintubuan man sadto. Pero sa ikatatlo nga tuig makatanom na kamo sang uyas kag makaani. Makatanom man kamo sang mga ubas kag makakaon sang bunga sini.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa hari sang Assyria: Indi siya makasulod sa siyudad sang Jerusalem ukon makapana sini. Indi siya makapalapit nga may taming ukon makatumpok sang duta sa kilid sang pader sang siyudad para mataklas ini.
Protektaran kag luwason ko ini nga siyudad para sa akon kadungganan kag tungod sa akon promisa kay David nga akon alagad.”
Dayon nagkadto ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo sa kampo sang mga taga-Assyria kag ginpatay niya ang 185,000 ka soldado. Pagkaaga, pagbugtaw sang mga nagkalabilin nga buhi, nakita nila ang madamo nga bangkay.
Isa ka adlaw, samtang nagasimba si Senakerib sa templo sang iya dios nga si Nisroc, ginpatay siya paagi sa espada sang iya duha ka anak nga lalaki nga sila ni Adramelec kag Sharezer, kag dayon nagpalagyo sila sa Ararat. Ang isa niya ka anak nga si Esarhadon amo ang nagbulos sa iya bilang hari.
Ginsugo sang hari sang Assyria ang iya kumander sa pagyaguta sa buhi nga Dios. Basi pa lang talupangdon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios ang ginsiling sang kumander kag silutan siya sa iya mga ginhambal. Gani magpangamuyo ka para sa aton nga nagkalabilin.”
nagsiling si Isaias sa ila, “Hambali ninyo ang inyo agalon nga si Haring Hezekia nga si Haring Hezekia nga amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Indi ka magkahadlok sa imo nabatian nga pagyaguta sa akon sang mga bata-bata sang hari sang Assyria.
Karon, sang mabatian sang kumander sang mga soldado sang Assyria nga naghalin na sa Lakish ang ila hari kag nagpakig-away sa Libna, nagkadto siya didto.
Abi ko nga mapatay na ako nga bataon pa, kag magpabilin sa lugar sang mga patay.
Abi ko indi ko na makita ang Ginoo Ginoo diri sa kalibutan sang mga buhi, ukon indi ko na makita ang mga tawo sa sini nga kalibutan.
Diutayan lang madula ang akon kabuhi pareho sa tolda sang manugbantay sang karnero nga ginpalid. Abi ko mautod na ang akon kabuhi pareho sa tela nga gin-utod sa teral.
Naghulat ako nga mapainubuson hasta sa kaagahon, nga nagahunahuna nga mapatay ako nga daw sa ginadugmok sang leon ang akon mga tul-an. Halin sa aga hasta sa gab-i naghulat ako nga tapuson mo na ang akon kabuhi.
Nagpangayo ako sang bulig nga ang akon tingog daw sa huni sang salimbabatang ukon dugwak. Nag-ugayong ako nga daw sa huni sang pating. Ginkapoy ang akon mga mata sa pagtangla sa langit. Ginoo Ginoo , buligi ako sa sini nga kalisod.
Pero ano pa ang masiling ko? Kay ginsabat na niya ako kag siya mismo ang nag-ayo sa akon. Magakabuhi ako sing mapainubuson tungod sa mapait nakon nga inagyan.
Paagi sini, Ginoo, nagabaskog ang kabuhi sang tawo, kag ako mismo nagbaskog. Gin-ayo mo ako kag gintugutan nga mabuhi.
Matuod nga ang akon gin-antos para sa akon kaayuhan. Tungod sa imo gugma, ginluwas mo ako sa kalaglagan kag ginpatawad mo ang akon mga sala.
Kay paano pa ako makadayaw sa imo kon patay na ako? Ang mga patay indi na makadayaw sa imo ukon makalaom sang imo pagkamatutom.
Ang mga buhi amo lang ang makadayaw sa imo pareho sang akon ginahimo subong. Ang tagsa ka henerasyon magasugid sa masunod nga henerasyon sang imo katutom.
Ginoo Ginoo , ikaw ang akon manluluwas, gani sa bilog namon nga kabuhi, magakanta kami sa imo templo nga nagatukar sang mga instrumento.
Sang wala pa mag-ayo si Hezekia, Sang wala pa mag-ayo si Hezekia, ginsilingan siya ni Isaias nga pahampulan niya sa iya mga suluguon ang iya hubag sang gindunot nga higos
Nagpamangkot si Hezekia, “Ano bala ang tanda nga magapamatuod nga magaayo magaayo ako kag kag makakadto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo ?”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Isaias
nga magbalik siya kay Hezekia kag ihambal ini: “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang imo katigulangan nga si David: Nabatian ko ang imo pangamuyo kag nakita ko ang imo mga luha. Dugangan ko pa sang 15 ka tuig ang imo kabuhi.
Luwason ko ikaw kag ang ini nga siyudad sa kamot sang hari sang Assyria. Protektaran ko ini nga siyudad.
Amo ini ang tanda nga akon ihatag sa pagpamatuod nga tumanon ko ining akon promisa:
Pabalikon ko sing napulo ka gutlo ang landong sang adlaw sa orasan nga ginpahimo ni Ahaz.” Kag natuman ini.
Amo ini ang ginsulat ni Haring Hezekia sang Juda sang nag-ayo na siya sa iya sakit:
Sang sadto nga tion, ang hari sang Babilonia nga si Merodac Baladan, nga anak ni Baladan, nakabalita nga nag-ayo na si Hezekia sa iya sakit. Gani nagpadala siya sang mga sulat kag regalo kay Hezekia paagi sa mga mensahero paagi sa mga mensahero .
Gin-abiabi ni Hezekia ang mga mensahero kag ginpakita niya sa ila ang tanan nga butang sa iya talaguan sang manggad—ang mga pilak, mga bulawan, mga panakot, mga maayo nga klase sang lana, ang iya mga armas, kag ang iban pa niya nga mga manggad. Wala sing bisan ano nga ara sa iya palasyo ukon ginharian nga wala niya ginpakita sa ila.
Dayon nagsiling si Isaias kay Hezekia, “Pamatii ining mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom:
Kag ang iban sa imo palaabuton nga mga kaliwat, pagabihagon kag mangin mga alagad sila sa palasyo sang hari sang Babilonia.”
Naghunahuna si Hezekia nga may kalinong kag wala sing katalagman samtang buhi pa siya. Gani nagsiling siya kay Isaias, “Maayo inang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginhambal mo sa akon.”
Nagsiling ang Dios, “Lipaya ninyo kag pabaskuga ang akon katawhan.
Huo, nagaabot na ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga may gahom, kag magahari siya nga gamhanan. Nagaabot siya nga dala ang balos nga para sa iya katawhan nga para sa iya katawhan .
Atipanon niya ang iya katawhan pareho sa pag-atipan sang manugbantay sa mga karnero: ginakugos niya ang mga bata sang mga karnero kag ginatuytuyan niya sing mahinalungon ang ila mga iloy.
Sin-o bala ang makasukob sang tubig sa dagat paagi sa iya kamot, ukon makatakos sang langit paagi sa iya pagdangaw sini? Sin-o bala ang makasulod sang tanan nga duta sa suludlan ukon makakilo sang mga bukid?
Sin-o bala ang nakahibalo sang hunahuna sang Ginoo Ginoo ? Sin-o bala ang makatudlo sa iya kon ano ang iya dapat himuon?
Sa kay sin-o bala siya nagpalaygay para paintiendihon siya kag sin-o bala ang nagtudlo sa iya sang husto nga dalan? Sin-o bala ang nagtudlo sa iya sang kaalam ukon nagtuytoy sa iya sa pag-intiendi? Wala gid! Wala gid!
Ang matuod, ang mga nasyon pareho gid lang sang isa ka tulo sa timba, ukon yab-ok sa kilohan. Para sa Dios, ang mga isla daw pareho lang kamag-an sa mga yab-ok.
Ang mga kasapatan sa Lebanon indi makaigo nga ihalad para sa iya, kag ang mga kahoy sini indi makaigo nga igatong sa mga halad.
Wala gid ang mga nasyon kon ikomparar sa iya. Para sa iya, baliwala ang mga nasyon.
Gani sa kay sin-o bala ninyo ikomparar ang Dios? Ukon sa ano bala ninyo siya ipaanggid?
Sa dios-dios bala nga ginahimo lang sang platero, kag ginahaklapan sang bulawan kag ginadekorasyunan sang pilak nga mga kadena?
Hambali ninyo sing malulo ang katawhan sang Jerusalem. Ibalita sa ila nga tapos na ang ila pag-antos, kag ang ila mga sala napatawad na. Kay ginsilutan ko sila sing tuman sa tanan nila nga mga sala.”
Ukon sa dios-dios bala nga kahoy nga matig-a nga matig-a nga indi dali maggabok, nga ginapahimo sang imol nga tawo bilang halad? Ginapahimo niya ini sa isa ka maayo nga panday para indi matumba.
Wala bala kamo makahibalo ukon makabati? Wala bala sing may nagsugid sa inyo halin sang ginsuguran? Wala gid bala ninyo maintiendihan kon paano ginhimo ang kalibutan?
Ginhimo ini sang Dios nga nagapungko sa trono sa ibabaw sang kalibutan, kag ang katawhan sa idalom daw pareho lang kagagmay sa mga tibakla sa iya panulok. Ginhumlad niya ang langit nga daw sa kurtina. Ginhumlad niya ini nga daw sa tolda para puy-an.
Ginakuhaan niya sang gahom ang mga pangulo sa kalibutan kag ginpakawalay pulos sila.
Pareho sila sa tanom nga bag-o lang gintusok, nga halos wala pa gani makapanggamot. Kag ginhuyop sila sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nalaya sila, dayon ginpalid sila sang buhawi pareho sa upa.
Nagsiling ang Balaan nga Dios, “Sa kay sin-o bala ninyo ako ipaanggid? May ara bala sang pareho sa akon?”
Tangla bala kamo! Sin-o ang nagtuga sinang mga butang sa kalangitan? Ang nagtuga sina amo ang Dios nga nagapaguwa sa kada isa sa ila samtang ginatawag niya sila sa ila mga ngalan. Sa iya pagkagamhanan wala sing isa sa ila nga nadula.
Kamo nga katawhan sang Israel nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob, ngaa bala nga nagareklamo kamo nga ang inyo mga plano
Wala bala kamo makahibalo ukon makabati nga ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang wala sing katapusan nga Dios nga nagtuga sang dulunan sang kalibutan? Wala siya ginakapoy ukon nagakaluya, kag wala sing may makatungkad sang iya hunahuna.
Ginahatagan niya sang kusog ang mga maluya kag ang mga ginakapoy.
May nagawali sing mabaskog sa kamingawan. Siling niya, Siling niya, “Ipreparar ninyo ang alagyan para sa Ginoo Ginoo . Tadlunga ang dalan nga pagaagyan sang aton Dios.
Bisan ang mga pamatan-on ginakapoy, ukon nagakaluya, kag nagakatumba sila,
pero ang mga nagasalig sa Ginoo Ginoo makaangkon liwat sang kusog. Daw sa magalupad sila pareho sa agila; kon magdalagan sila indi sila pagkapuyon; kon maglakat sila indi sila pagluyahon.
Ang tagsa ka nalupyakan tampukan, kag ang tagsa ka bukid tapanon, pati ang mga lugar nga kudolkudol.
Dayon igapahayag ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag makita ini sang tanan nga tawo. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang nagsiling sini.”
May nagsiling sa akon, “Magwali ka!” Nagsabat ako, “Ano ang akon iwali?” Nagsiling siya, “Iwali nga ang tanan nga tawo pareho sang hilamon, kag ang ila pagkabantog pareho sang iya bulak.
Ang hilamon nagakalaya kag ang iya bulak nagakahulog tungod kay ginahuyop ini sang hangin nga ginapadala sang Ginoo Ginoo . Matuod nga ang tawo pareho sang hilamon.
Ang hilamon nagakalaya kag ang iya bulak nagakahulog, pero ang pulong sang aton Dios nagapadayon sa gihapon.”
Kamo nga nagadala sang maayong balita sa Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem, magsaka kamo sa mataas nga bukid, kag isugid ninyo sing mabaskog ang maayong balita. Indi kamo magkahadlok sa pagsugid. Hambali ninyo ang mga banwa sang Juda nga ara na ang ila Dios.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kamo nga mga katawhan sa malayo nga mga lugar,
Indi ka magkahadlok kay kaupod mo ako. Indi ka magkabalaka kay ako ang imo Dios. Pabaskugon ko ikaw kag buligan. Proteksyunan ko ikaw paagi sa akon gahom nga magaluwas sa imo.
Ang tanan nga nagakaakig sa imo sigurado gid nga mahuy-an kag magasalasala. Magakalawala ang mga nagakontra sa imo.
Bisan pangitaon mo ang imo mga kaaway indi mo na sila makita. Sila nga nagapakig-away sa imo mangin wala sing pulos.
Kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, nagapabakod sa imo kag nagasiling sa imo nga indi ka magkahadlok kay buligan ko ikaw.
Bisan gamay ka lang kag maluya,
Pamati! Himuon ko ikaw nga pareho sa tapi nga panglinas nga bag-o kag may matalom nga mga ulounto. Linason kag dugmukon mo ang mga bukid kag himuon nga daw sa mga upa.
Pahanginan mo sila kag mapalid sila; laptahon sila sang buhawi. Pero ikaw magakalipay sa Ginoo Ginoo ; magadayaw ka sa Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.
“Kon magpangita sang tubig ang akon katawhan nga mga imol, kag wala sila sing may makita kag magmala ang ila tutunlan sa kauhaw, ako nga Ginoo Ginoo magabulig sa ila; ako nga Dios sang Israel indi magsikway sa ila.
Pailigon ko ang mga suba sa mahawan nga mga bukid kag ang mga tuburan sa mga patag. Himuon ko ang desierto nga katubigan, kag ang mamala nga duta nga mga tuburan.
Patubuon ko sa desierto ang mga kahoy nga sedro, akasya, mirto, olibo, pino, enebro, kag sipres,
Sin-o bala ang nagtawag sa matarong nga mandadaog halin sa east para ini siya mag-alagad sa iya? Sin-o bala ang nagapasakop sang mga nasyon kag mga hari sa sini nga mandadaog? Ginalaglag niya sila paagi sa iya espada kag pana; pareho sila sa yab-ok ukon upa nga ginpalid sang hangin.
para makita, mahibaluan, kag maintiendihan sang katawhan nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, amo ang naghimo sini.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Hari sang Israel,
Pero ang matuod, wala kamo sing pulos, kag wala gid kamo sing may nahimo. Ang mga nagapili sa pagsimba sa inyo makangilil-ad.
Ginpili ko nga magdumala ang isa ka tawo halin sa north. Nagadangop siya sa akon; kag karon nagaabot siya halin sa east. Laglagon niya ang mga manugdumala pareho sang pagtasak sang manughimo sang kolon sa lunang nga pormahon niya.
“Sin-o bala sa inyo ang nagsugid sang una pa nga matabo ini para makahibalo kami kag makasiling nga husto siya? Wala gid sing isa nga may nagsugid sa inyo, kag wala sing may nakabati nga may ginhambal kamo.
Ako, ang Ginoo , ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang una nga nagsugid sini sa Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem. Nagpadala ako sa sini nga siyudad sang isa ka mensahero sa pagsugid sang maayong balita nga ara na ang magabulig sa ila.
Gintan-aw ko kon may ara nga dios-dios nga makalaygay, pero wala gid ako sing may nakita. Wala gid sing isa sa ila nga makasabat sa akon mga pamangkot.
Tanan sila wala sing pulos, kag wala gid sila sing may mahimo. Pareho sila sa hangin nga umalagi lang.”
Ginalagas niya sila kag wala sing may nagabalabag sa iya, bisan sa lugar nga wala pa niya makadtui.
Sin-o bala ang naghimo sining tanan? Sin-o bala ang nagbuot sang tanan nga nagakalatabo halin pa sa una nga henerasyon? Kundi ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ara na sa pag-umpisa sang kalibutan kag ara man ako gihapon sa katapusan sini.”
Ang mga tawo sa malayo nga mga lugar, bisan sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan, nakakita sang akon binuhatan, kag nagkurog sila sa kahadlok. Nagtipon sila,
kag ang kada isa nagabuligay kag nagapabakod sa isa kag isa.
Ang mga panday, platero, kag iban pa nga mga trabahador
“Pero ikaw, Israel nga akon alagad kag pinili, nga ang imo katawhan mga kaliwat ni Abraham nga akon abyan,
gintawag ko ikaw kag ginkuha halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan. Ginsilingan ko ikaw, ‘Ikaw ang akon alagad.’ Ginpili ko ikaw kag wala ko ikaw pagsikwaya.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ari ang akon alagad nga akon ginapabaskog. Ginpili ko siya kag nalipay ako sa iya. Gamhan ko siya sang akon Espiritu, kag paharion niya ang hustisya sa mga nasyon.
Magkanta kamo sang bag-o nga kanta sa Ginoo Ginoo ! Magkanta kamo sang mga pagdayaw sa iya, bisan kamo nga ara sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan. Dayawa ninyo siya, Dayawa ninyo siya, kamo nga nagapanakayon kag tanan kamo nga mga tinuga sa dagat, kag kamo nga nagaestar sa malayo nga mga lugar.
Dayawa ninyo siya, kamo nga ara sa mga banwa sang kamingawan kag kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Kedar. Magkanta kamo sa kalipay, kamo nga katawhan sang Sela. Maghinugyaw kamo sa putokputokan sang mga bukid.
Padunggi ninyo kag dayawa ang Ginoo Ginoo , kamo nga ara sa malayo nga mga lugar.
Magapakig-away ang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sa isa ka soldado nga handa na gid sa pagpakig-away. Magasinggit siya bilang tanda sa pagsalakay, kag magadaog siya kontra sa iya mga kaaway.
Nagasiling siya, Nagasiling siya, “Sa malawig nga tion naghipos lang ako kag ginpunggan ko ang akon kaugalingon. Pero subong, ipakita ko ang akon kaakig ipakita ko ang akon kaakig . Masinggit ako nga nagahangos pareho sa manugbata nga ginasakitan.
Laglagon ko ang mga bukid, kag palayaon ang mga tanom. Himuon ko ang mga suba nga mamala nga duta kag pamalahon ko ang mga katubigan.
Tuytuyan ko ang akon katawhan nga akon katawhan nga mga bulag sa kamatuoran sa kamatuoran sa dalan nga wala pa nila maagyan. Pasanagan ko ang ila madulom nga alagyan, kag tapanon ko ang mga kudolkudol nga mga lugar nga ila pagalaktan. Himuon ko ini nga mga butang, kag indi ko sila pag-isikway.
Pero ang mga nagasalig sa mga dios-dios, nga nagakabig sa mga imahen nga ila dios-dios, magapalagyo sa kahuya.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa iya katawhan, Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya katawhan, “Kamo nga pareho sa bungol kag bulag, pamati kamo kag magtulok!
Alagad ko kamo kag akon pinili. Ginapadala ko kamo bilang akon mensahero, pero wala sing may makapareho sa inyo sa pakabulag kag pagkabungol.
Indi siya magsinggit ukon maghambal sing mabaskog sa mga dalan.
Madamo na ang inyo nakita pero wala ninyo ini ginasapak. Makabati kamo kuntani pero wala kamo nagapamati.”
Luyag gid sang Ginoo Ginoo nga padunggan ang iya kasuguan para mapakita niya ang iya pagkamatarong.
Pero karon ang iya katawhan ginkawatan, gin-agawan sang mga pagkabutang, ginpriso sa buho ukon sa prisohan, kag wala gid sing may nagbulig sa ila.
May ara bala sa inyo nga luyag magpamati ukon magsapak sining inyo nabatian halin karon?
Sin-o bala ang nagtugot nga kawatan kag agawan sang pagkabutang ang Israel? Indi bala ang Ginoo Ginoo , nga sa iya nakasala kita? Kay wala ta pagsunda ang iya mga pamaagi kag wala ta pagtumana ang iya kasuguan.
Gani ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya puwerte nga kaakig sa aton paagi sa pagpaantos sa aton sa inaway. Ang iya kaakig pareho sa kalayo nga naglikop kag nagsunog sa aton, pero wala ta ini ginhunahuna kag ginsapak.
Indi niya pagpabay-an ang mga maluya sa pagtuo
Indi gid siya magkaluya ukon madulaan sang paglaom hasta nga mapahari niya ang hustisya sa kalibutan. Bisan ang mga tawo sa malayo nga mga lugar
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Dios, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagtuga sang kalangitan nga daw sa tela nga iya ginhumlad. Ginporma niya ang kalibutan kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini. Siya man ang naghatag sang ginhawa sa mga tawo kag sa tanan nga tinuga nga nagakabuhi sa kalibutan.
Nagsiling siya sa iya nga alagad, Nagsiling siya sa iya nga alagad, “Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang nagtawag sa imo sa pagpakita sang akon pagkamatarong. Buligan kag protektaran ko ikaw kag paagi sa imo mahimo ako sang kasugtanan sa mga tawo. Himuon ko ikaw nga pareho sa suga nga magapasanag sa mga nasyon,
para magpamuklat sa mga bulag kag maghilway sa mga nabihag, nga napriso sa madulom nga prisohan.
Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ina ang akon ngalan! Indi ko pag-ihatag ang akon kadungganan sa kay bisan sin-o ukon ang pagdayaw nga para sa akon sa mga dios-dios.
Ang akon mga ginpropesiya natuman, kag karon ipahayag ko ang mga bag-o nga mga butang antes ini matabo.”
Pero karon amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagtuga sa imo, O Israel: “Indi ka magkahadlok kay luwason ko gid ikaw;
Mga katawhan sang Israel, Mga katawhan sang Israel, kamo ang akon mga saksi. Ginpili ko kamo nga akon alagad para makilala ninyo ako kag magtuo kamo sa akon, kag maintiendihan ninyo nga ako lang ang Dios. Wala na sing iban pa nga Dios nga nag-una sa akon ukon magsunod pa sa akon.
Ako lang gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kag luwas sa akon wala na sing iban pa nga Manluluwas.
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ako ang Dios.
Halin pa sang una ako na ang Dios. Wala sing may makapalagyo sa akon mga kamot. Wala sing may makaliwat sang akon mga ginahimo.”
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang inyo Manluluwas, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, “Agod maluwas kamo, ipasalakay ko ang Babilonia sa mga soldado sang isa ka nasyon, kag magapalalagyo ang mga taga-Babilonia
Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang inyo Balaan nga Dios, ang manunuga sang Israel, ang inyo Hari.
Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga naghimo sang alagyan sa tunga sang dagat.
Gintipon ko ang mga karwahe, mga kabayo, kag mga soldado sang Egypt sang Egypt , kag ginlaglag sila didto sa dagat, kag indi na gid sila makabangon pa. Pareho sila sa suga nga napatay.
Pero indi na ninyo sagi paminsar ang mga nagligad,
kay bag-o naman nga butang ang akon himuon. Nagakalatabo na gani ini. Wala bala ninyo ini nakita? Magahimo ako sang dalan kag mga tuburan sa desierto.
Kon mag-agi ka sa tubig, magaupod ako sa imo. Kon magtabok ka sa mga suba indi ka malumos. Kon mag-agi ka sa kalayo, indi ka mapaso; ang dabdab sini indi makaano sa imo.
Bisan ang talunon nga mga sapat magapadungog sa akon pati ang talunon nga mga ido
Sila ang katawhan nga akon gintuga para mangin akon, kag para magdayaw sa akon.
“Pero wala ka magpangayo sang bulig sa akon, Israel, kundi gintak-an ka na sa akon.
Wala ka maghalad sa akon sang mga karnero bilang halad nga ginasunog. Wala mo ako ginpadunggan sang imo mga halad bisan wala ko ikaw ginpabudlayan kag ginpatak-an sa akon pagpangayo sa imo sang mga halad nga regalo kag mga insenso.
Wala mo ako pagbakli sang insenso ukon pagpaayawi sang tambok sang imo mga halad. Sa baylo, ginpabudlayan kag ginpatak-an mo ako sang imo mga sala.
“Ako mismo amo ang nagapanas sang imo sala para sa akon kadungganan, kag indi ko na ini pagdumdumon pa.
Hunahunaon ta ang mga nagliligad; maghusayay kita. Ipahayag ang imo kaso sa pagpamatuod nga inosente ka.
Nakasala ang imo nahauna nga katigulangan, kag nagrebelde sa akon ang imo mga pangulo.
Gani ginpakahuy-an ko ang imo mga pari kag gintugyan ko ikaw, Israel, sa kalaglagan kag kahuy-anan.
Kay ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, nga imo Manluluwas. Itugyan ko sa iban nga nasyon sa iban nga nasyon ang Egypt, Ethiopia,
Itugyan ko ang iban nga mga katawhan sa baylo mo, tungod kay bilidhon kag dungganon ka sa akon panulok, kag tungod kay ginahigugma ko ikaw.
Indi ka magkahadlok kay kaupod mo ako. Tipunon ko ang imo mga kaliwat halin sa east kag west.
Hambalan ko ang mga nasyon sa north kag sa south nga pabay-an ang imo mga kaliwat nga magbalik sa ila duta, nga papulion sila halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan.
Sila ang mga katawhan nga akon gintawag; gintuga ko sila para sa akon kadungganan.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo , Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Tawga ang akon katawhan nga may mga mata pero indi makakita, nga may mga dulunggan pero indi makabati!
Patipuna sing tingob ang tanan nga katawhan sang nasyon. Sin-o sa ila mga dios-dios mga dios-dios ang makapropesiya sang palaabuton? Sin-o sa ila ang nagsugid sang una sang mga nagakalatabo subong? Padal-a sila sang mga saksi sa pagpamatuod nga husto sila para makabati sini ang iban kag magsiling nga matuod gid man.
“Pero karon, pamati, O Israel nga akon alagad, ang katawhan nga akon pinili, nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
Buang-buang ang tawo nga nagahimo sang mga dios-dios nga indi man lang niya mapuslan.
Pamati! Mahuy-an ang tanan nga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios, kay ang naghimo sini mga tawo man lang. Patipuna sila tanan sa pagdepensa sang ila kaugalingon. Mahadlok gid sila kag mahuy-an.
Ang panday sang metal nagabutang sang metal sa baga. Dayon ginamaso niya ini sing tudo para pormahon nga dios-dios. Nagaluya siya sa kagutom kag daw malipong sa kauhaw.
Ang panday sang kahoy nagatakos sang isa ka utod nga kahoy. Ginakuritan niya sa dagway sang dios-dios, kag dayon ginakurtihan niya paagi sa iya mga gamit. Ginaporma niya ini sa matahom nga dagway sang tawo para ibutang sa isa ka templo.
Agod may gamiton siya nga kahoy, nagautod siya sang sedro, ukon sipres, ukon terebinto. Ini nga mga kahoy ginapatubo niya sa kagulangan. Nagatanom man siya sang kahoy nga pino, kag paagi sa ulan nagatubo ini.
Ginagamit niya ang iban nga mga kahoy nga gatong, para makapainit siya kag makaluto sang tinapay. Kag ang iban nga mga kahoy ginahimo niya nga dios-dios, kag ginaludhan niya kag ginasimba.
Ginasunog niya ang iban nga mga kahoy kag nagasugba siya sang karne sa baga sini. Dayon nagakaon siya sang sinugba kag nagakabusog. Nagapainit-init man siya sa kalayo kag nagasiling, “Hay, maayo kay nainitan ako.”
Kag ang iban nga mga kahoy, ginahimo niya nga dios-dios. Nagaluhod siya kag nagasimba sa sini nga mga dios-dios, kag nagapangamuyo nga nagasiling, “Luwasa ako, kay ikaw ang akon dios.”
Ini nga mga tawo wala makahibalo ukon makaintiendi sa ila ginahimo. Ang ila mga mata natabunan kag indi sila makakita. Ang ila mga hunahuna natakpan, kag indi sila makaintiendi.
Wala gid sila nagapamalandong kag nagahunahuna sa pagsiling, “Gin-gatong ko ang iban nga mga kahoy, kag nagluto ako sang tinapay kag nagsugba sang karne sa baga sini, kag ginkaon ko ini. Kag karon himuon ko bala nga makangilil-ad nga butang ang nabilin nga kahoy? Magasimba bala ako sa isa ka utod nga kahoy?”
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang naghimo kag nagbulig sa imo. Indi ka magkahadlok, ikaw nga akon alagad kag pinili ko nga katawhan.
Daw pareho lang nga nagkaon siya sang abo. Ang nadulman niya nga hunahuna nagpatalang sa iya, kag indi niya maluwas ang iya kaugalingon. Indi niya mabaton nga ang dios-dios nga ara sa iya indi matuod nga dios.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Dumduma ini nga mga butang, O Israel, kay alagad ko ikaw. Ginhimo ko ikaw para mag-alagad sa akon, kag indi ko gid ikaw pagkalimtan.
Dulaon ko na ang imo mga sala pareho sang gal-om ukon ambon. Balik ka sa akon, kay luwason ko gid ikaw.”
Magkanta ka sa kalipay, O kalangitan! Singgit sing matunog, O kalibutan! Magkanta kamo nga mga bukid, kag mga kahoy sa kagulangan. Kay himuon gid ini sang Ginoo Ginoo . Luwason niya ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob; ipakita niya ang iya pagkagamhanan sa Israel.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Manluluwas, nga nagtuga sa inyo: Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga naghimo sang tanan nga butang. Ako lang gid ang naghumlad sang kalangitan kag nagtuga sang kalibutan.
Ginpaslaw ko ang mga propesiya sang butigon nga mga propeta. Kag ginapabuang ko ang mga manugpakot. Ginabaliskad ko ang mga ginahambal sang mga maalamon, kag ginahimo nga wala sing pulos ang ila nahibaluan.
Ginatuman ko ang mga propesiya sang akon alagad
Kon magmando ako nga magmala ang suba, nagamala ini.
Nagasiling ako kay Cyrus, “Ikaw ang manugbantay sang akon katawhan, kag himuon mo ang tanan ko nga naluyagan. Magamando ka nga patindugon liwat ang Jerusalem kag ang templo sini.”
Kay hatagan ko ikaw sang tubig nga magapaumpaw sang imo kauhaw kag magabasa sang imo mamala nga duta. Gamhan ko sang akon Espiritu ang imo mga kaliwat kag pakamaayuhon ko sila.
Magauswag sila pareho sa nagalambo nga tanom nga bugana sang tubig ukon mga kahoy sa higad sang mga sapa.
May ara nga magasiling, ‘Ako iya sang Ginoo Ginoo ,’ kag may iban nga magasiling, ‘Kaliwat ako ni Jacob.’ May ara man nga magasulat sa ila kamot sang ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag magakabig sang ila kaugalingon nga sakop sila sang katawhan sang Israel.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Hari kag Manluluwas sang Israel, ang Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo : Ako amo ang ginsuguran kag ang katapusan sang tanan. Luwas sa akon wala na sing iban pa nga Dios.
Sin-o bala ang pareho sa akon? Isugid niya sa akon atubangan kon ano ang nagkalatabo halin sang gintukod ko nga isa ka nasyon ang akon katawhan sang una nga panahon. Kag isugid man niya kon ano ang magakalatabo sa palaabuton.
Indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magpakulba. Indi bala nga ginpahibalo ko na sang una pa ang akon katuyuan sa inyo? Kamo mismo ang akon mga saksi. May iban pa bala nga Dios luwas sa akon? Wala gid! Wala na ako sing may nahibaluan pa nga palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato luwas sa akon luwas sa akon .”
Wala sing pulos ang tanan nga nagahimo sang mga dios-dios. Kag ining mga dios-dios nga ila ginapakamahal wala sing bili. Sila mismo makapamatuod nga wala ini sing bili. Kay indi ini makakita kag wala sing may nahibaluan. Amo gani nga nagakahuy-an ang mga nagasimba sini.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Cyrus nga iya pinili, nga ang awtoridad sini iya ginpabakod, “Sakupon mo ang mga nasyon kag pierdihon mo ang mga hari. Buksan mo ang mga puwertahan sang ila mga banwa sa pag-agaw sini sa pag-agaw sini kag indi na ini pagsiradhan.
Kaluluoy ang anak nga nagasiling sa iya ginikanan, ‘Ngaa ginbata ninyo ako sing subong sini?’ ”
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel kag ang iya Manunuga, “Nagareklamo bala kamo sa akon mga ginahimo? Ginamanduan bala ninyo ako sa dapat ko himuon?
Ako ang naghimo sang kalibutan, kag nagtuga sang tawo sa pag-estar sa kalibutan. Ang akon mga kamot amo ang naghumlad sang kalangitan, kag ako ang nagmando nga magguwa nga magguwa ang mga butang sa kalangitan.
Ako mismo ang nagpadumala kay Cyrus sa pagtuman sang akon matarong nga tinutuyo. Himuon ko nga husto ang tanan niya nga mga pamaagi. Patindugon niya liwat ang akon siyudad kag hilwayon niya ang akon katawhan nga ginbihag. Himuon niya ini indi tungod nga ginsuhulan ukon ginpremyuhan siya. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Israel sa Israel , “Mangin sakop mo ang mga taga-Egypt kag taga-Ethiopia,
O Dios kag Manluluwas sang Israel, matuod nga wala mo ginapakita ang imo kaugalingon.
Mahuy-an gid ang tanan nga nagahimo sang mga dios-dios.
Pero luwason mo, Ginoo Ginoo , ang Israel, kag ang ila kaluwasan wala sing katapusan. Kag indi na gid sila mahuy-an hasta san-o.
Ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang Dios. Gintuga mo ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan. Wala mo ginhimo ang kalibutan nga mahawan, kundi ginhimo mo ini para puy-an. Nagasiling ka, “Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala na sing iban pa.
Wala ako naghambal sa tago, nga wala sing may nakahibalo. Wala ako nagsiling sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob nga magdangop sila sa akon nga wala man lang sila sing may mabaton. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagahambal sang kamatuoran. Ginapahayag ko kon ano ang husto.”
Ako ang magapreparar sang imo alagyan, kag tapanon ko ang mga bukid. Gub-on ko ang mga puwertahan nga saway kag ang mga trangka sini nga salsalon.
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo , Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magtipon kamo sing tingob kag magpalapit sa akon, kamo nga mga nakapalagyo halin sa mga nasyon. Wala gid sing may nahibaluan ang mga nagadala sang ila mga dios-dios nga kahoy. Nagapangamuyo sila sa sini nga mga dios-dios nga indi makaluwas sa ila.
Magkonsultahanay kamo, kag ipahayag ninyo ang inyo kaso. Sin-o bala ang nagpropesiya sang una sa mga butang nga matabo? Indi bala ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo ? Wala na sing iban nga Dios kundi ako lang—ang matarong nga Dios kag Manluluwas.
“Magdangop kamo sa akon, tanan kamo nga ara sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan para maluwas kamo, kay ako Dios, kag wala na sing iban pa.
Nagsumpa ako sa akon kaugalingon, kag ang akon mga ginpanghambal masaligan kag indi na maliwat: Magaluhod ang tanan nga tawo sa akon kag magasumpa sila nga magaunong sila sa akon nga magaunong sila sa akon .
Magasiling sila, ‘Paagi lang gid sa Ginoo Ginoo makaangkon ang tawo sang kusog kag kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong.’ ” Ang tanan nga nagadumot sa Ginoo Ginoo magapalapit sa iya kag mahuy-an.
Sa bulig sang bulig sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga kaliwat ni Israel makaangkon sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong kag magadayaw sila sa iya.
Ihatag ko sa imo ang mga tinago nga mga manggad, para mahibaluan mo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel nga nagtawag sa imo.
Gintawag ko ikaw para buligan mo ang Israel nga akon alagad, ang katawhan nga akon ginpili. Ginpadunggan ko ikaw bisan wala ka makakilala sa akon.
Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala na sing iban pa; luwas sa akon wala na sing iban pa nga Dios. Hatagan ko ikaw sang kusog bisan wala ka makakilala sa akon,
para ang mga katawhan sa bilog nga kalibutan makahibalo nga wala na sing iban pa nga Dios luwas sa akon. Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala na sing iban pa.
Ako ang naghimo sang kasanag kag sang kadulom. Ako ang nagadala sang kaayuhan kag sang katalagman. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang naghimo sini tanan.
“Magahatag ako sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong, pareho sang paghatag sang kalangitan ukon sang gal-om sang ulan. Kag batunon ini sang mga tawo sa kalibutan. Magalapnag ang kaluwasan kag ang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong pareho sang tanom nga nagatubo. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang magahimo sini.
Kaluluoy ang nagapakigbais sa Dios nga iya Manunuga. Pareho man lang siya sa kolon. Makareklamo bala ang lunang sa manughimo sang kolon kon ano ang iya himuon? Ukon makareklamo bala siya nga pigaw ang manughimo sang kolon?
Ang mga dios-dios sang Babilonia nga sila ni Bel kag Nebo nagahamyang samtang ginakarga sa karwahe nga ginaguyod sang mga donkey. Mabug-at sila nga karga sa ginakapoy nga mga donkey.
Sa umpisa pa lang ginpahayag ko na ang palaabuton. Halin sang una, ginpropesiya ko na kon ano ang matabo. Matuman gid ang akon mga plano; himuon ko ang tanan nga akon nagustuhan.
Magatawag ako sang isa ka tawo halin sa east sa isa ka malayo nga lugar, kag tumanon niya ang akon plano. Magasulip siya pareho sa pispis nga nagapangdagit. Kon ano ang akon ginhambal kag ginplano tumanon ko ini.
Pamati kamo sa akon, kamo nga mga matig-a sing ulo. Indi gid kamo makaangkon sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong.
Sa indi madugay, hatagan ko na sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong ang Jerusalem.
Nagahamyang sila, kag indi nila masarangan nga luwason ang nagadala sa ila. Pati sila ginbihag.
Pamati kamo sa akon, kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob, kamo tanan nga nagkalabilin sa katawhan sang Israel. Gin-atipan ko kamo halin sang inyo pagkatawo.
Bisan magtigulang na kamo kag mag-ubanon, ako ang magaatipan sa inyo. Ginhimo ko kamo kag tatapon ko gid kamo. Buligan ko kamo kag luwason.
Sa kay sin-o bala ninyo ako ipaanggid? May ara bala nga pareho sa akon?
Ang iban nga mga tawo nagapaguwa sang ila bulawan ukon pilak kag nagasuhol sang platero para himuon ini nga dios-dios kag ila dayon simbahon.
Ginapas-an nila ini, kag dayon ginatungtong sa iya bulutangan, kag nagapabilin ini didto. Indi na ini makahalin didto. Kon may magpangamuyo sa sini, indi ini makasabat; indi ini makaluwas sa iya mga kalisod.
Kamo nga mga rebelde, tandai ninyo ini kag itanom gid sa inyo hunahuna.
Dumduma man ninyo ang akon mga ginhimo sang una nga panahon. Ako lang ang Dios, kag wala na sing iban pa nga pareho sa akon.
Ikaw nga pareho sa birhen nga babayi indi na pagtawgon nga mahinhin kag maluming.
kag nagatulod sa imo sa pagsiling, ‘Ako ang Dios, kag wala na sing iban pa.’
Hinali lang nga magaabot sa imo ang kalaglagan nga wala mo ginahunahuna.
Basi pa lang magmadinalag-on ka, ukon basi pa lang kulbaan ang imo mga kaaway.
kag nagapropesiya kada bulan sang mga butang nga matabo sa imo.
Indi puwede makapainit-init sa sini nga kalayo, kay puwerte ini kainit kay puwerte ini kainit .
Ang kada isa sa ila nagtalang kag indi sila makaluwas sa imo.
para makita ang imo paa samtang nagatabok ka sa suba.
Magabalos ako sa imo kag indi ko ikaw pagkaluoyan.”
amo ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.
Indi ka na pagtawgon nga rayna sang mga ginharian.
Bisan gani ang mga tigulang sa ila ginpintasan mo.
Pero wala mo paghunahunaa ining imo mga ginhimo kag kon ano ang mangin resulta sini sa imo.
Nagahunahuna ka nga indi ka gid mabalo ukon madulaan sang mga anak.
Matabo gid ini tanan sa imo bisan madamo ka pa sang nahibaluan nga madyik ukon binabaylan.
“Pamati kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob, kamo nga ginatawag Israel, kag naghalin sa tribo ni Juda. Nagasumpa kamo sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag nagatawag kamo sa Dios sang Israel. Pero indi ini sinsero, kay indi matarong ang inyo kabuhi.
Pamati! Tinluan ko kamo, pero indi pareho sa ginahimo sa pilak, kay tinluan ko kamo paagi sa pag-antos.
Himuon ko ini para sa akon kadungganan. Indi gid ako magtugot nga mahuy-an ako kag mapadunggan ang iban nga dios.
“Pamati kamo sa akon, kamo nga taga-Israel nga akon ginpili. Ako ang Dios; ako ang ginsuguran kag ang katapusan sang tanan.
Ako mismo ang nagbutang sang pundasyon sang kalibutan kag naghumlad sang kalangitan. Kon magmando ako sa ila, ginatuman nila.
“Magtipon kamo tanan kag magpamati: Sin-o bala sa mga dios-dios ang nagpropesiya nga salakayon sang akon abyan
Ako mismo ang naghambal kag nagtawag sa iya. Suguon ko siya kag magmadinalag-on siya sa iya himuon.
Kag karon ang Ginoong Dios Dios kag ang iya Espiritu nagpadala sa akon sa pagsugid sini nga mensahi sa pagsugid sini nga mensahi :
Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Manluluwas, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel: “Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagtudlo sa inyo kon ano ang maayo para sa inyo kag nagtuytoy sa inyo sa husto nga dalan.
Kon nagpati lang kamo sa akon mga sugo, kuntani nag-ilig pareho sa suba ang mga kaayuhan sa inyo, kag nagsinunod-sunod lang kuntani ang inyo mga kadalag-an
Ang inyo mga kaliwat mangin pareho kuntani kadamo sa balas nga indi maisip, kag indi gid sila malaglag sa akon atubangan.”
Ginatawag pa ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon nga mga pumuluyo sang balaan nga siyudad kag nagasiling kamo nga nagasalig kamo sa Dios sang Israel, nga ang iya ngalan Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.”
Maghalin kamo sa Babilonia! Isugid ninyo sing malipayon hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan nga ginluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya alagad, ang katawhan sang Israel.
Wala sila pag-uhawa sang ginpangunahan sila sang Dios sa mga kamingawan, kay ginpatubod niya ang tubig sa bato para sa ila. Ginbuka niya ang bato kag nagsagawak ang tubig.
Pero nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ang mga malain indi makaangkon sang maayo nga kahimtangan.
Nagasiling siya sa inyo, Nagasiling siya sa inyo, “Ginpropesiya ko na sang una kon ano ang matabo sa palaabuton. Kag sa hinali lang gintuman ko ini.
Nahibaluan ko kon ano katig-a sang inyo ulo. Ang inyo liog daw pareho katig-a sang salsalon kag ang inyo agtang daw pareho katig-a sa saway.
Amo gani nga ginsugid ko na nga daan sa inyo ang akon himuon. Sa wala pa ini matabo ginpahibalo ko na ini sa inyo para indi kamo makasiling nga ang inyo mga dios-dios nga hinimo halin sa kahoy kag metal amo ang nagpropesiya kag nagtuman sini.
Nabatian ninyo ang akon mga ginpropesiya kag nakita ninyo ang katumanan sini, pero indi ninyo pagbatunon nga ako ang naghimo sini. Sugod subong sugiran ko kamo sang bag-o nga mga butang nga wala ko pa ginpahayag sa inyo; wala pa ninyo mahibaluan.
Karon ko pa lang ini ginahimo kag wala pa sang una, para indi kamo makasiling nga nahibaluan na ninyo ini.
Wala kamo makabati ukon makaintiendi sini nga mga butang kay halin pa sang una nagpabungol-bungol kamo. Nahibaluan ko kon ano kamo ka maluibon, kay halin pa sang inyo pagkatawo mga rebelde na kamo.
Para sa akon kadungganan, punggan ko ang akon kaakig sa inyo, agod indi kamo malaglag.
Pamati kamo sa akon, kamo nga ara sa malayo nga mga lugar.
Indi na sila paggutumon ukon pag-uhawon. Indi sila maano sang init sang adlaw ukon sang mainit nga hangin sang desierto. Kay ako nga nagakabalaka sa ila magatuytoy sa ila sa mga tuburan.
Himuon ko nga dalan nila nila ang tanan ko nga mga bukid. Ang mataas nga mga lugar mangin karsada.
Magaabot ang akon katawhan halin sa malayo—ang iban halin sa north, ang iban sa west, kag ang iban pa gid halin sa Sinim.”
ang iya katawhan nga nagaantos.
Pero nagsiling ang katawhan sang Jerusalem,
Pero nagsabat ang Ginoo , Pero nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Malipat bala ang isa ka iloy sa iya anak? Indi niya bala pagkabalak-an ang iya ginbata? Bisan malipat siya, indi gid ako malipat sa inyo!
O Jerusalem indi ko gid ikaw malimtan Jerusalem indi ko gid ikaw malimtan . Ginsulat ko ang imo ngalan sa akon mga palad. Ginahunahuna ko permi nga mapatindog liwat ang imo mga pader.
Madali na lang mag-abot ang magapatindog liwat sa imo,
Tan-awa sa imo palibot, ang imo katawhan nagatipon na kag nagapalapit sa imo. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga buhi, nagasumpa nga ipabugal mo sila pareho sang pagpabugal sang kalaslon nga babayi sa mga alahas nga iya ginasuksok.
“Nalaglag ka kag nangin mamingaw, pero karon puy-an ka na sang imo katawhan, kag puy-an ka na sang imo katawhan, kag halos indi sila makaigo sa imo. Kag atong mga naglaglag sa imo magapalayo.
Ginhimo niya ang akon mga pulong nga pareho katalom sang espada. Ginprotektaran niya ako sang iya gahom. Ginhimo niya ako nga pareho sa mahining nga pana nga handa na nga gamiton.
Ang imo katawhan nga natawo sang panahon sang imo pagpangasubo
Dayon masiling ka sa imo kaugalingon, ‘Sin-o bala ang nagbata sini sa ila para sa akon? Nagkalamatay ang kadam-an sang akon katawhan,
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : “Pamati! Sinyasan ko ang mga nasyon, kag ibalik nila sa imo ang imo katawhan nga daw sa mga bata nga ginakugos.
Magaalagad sa imo ang mga hari kag mga rayna; sila ang magaatipan sa imo. Magaluhod sila sa imo bilang pagtahod bilang pagtahod , kag magapasakop gid sila sa imo.
Makuha mo bala ang mga ginpang-agaw sang mapintas
Pero amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Huo, maluwas mo ang mga ginpangbihag sang mapintas nga mga soldado kag makuha mo ang mga ginpang-agaw nila. Kay magapakig-away ako sa mga nagapakig-away sa imo kag luwason ko ang imo katawhan.
Ipakaon ko sa mga nagadaogdaog sa imo ang ila kaugalingon nga lawas, kag daw sa mahubog sila sa ila kaugalingon nga dugo. Dayon mahibaluan sang tanan nga tawo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang imo Manluluwas kag Manughilway, ang Makagagahom nga Dios ni Jacob.”
Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Israel, ikaw ang akon alagad. Paagi sa imo, padunggan ako sang mga tawo.”
Pero nagsiling ako, “Ang akon pagpangabudlay wala man lang sing pulos; gin-usikan ko ang akon kusog sa wala sing kapuslanan.” Pero ginatugyan ko lang ini sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios; siya ang magabalos sa akon mga ginhimo.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang naghimo sa akon nga mangin iya alagad para pabalikon kag tipunon ko ang mga Israelinhon sa iya. Ginpadunggan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kag siya nga akon Dios amo ang nagahatag sa akon sang kusog.
Nagsiling siya, “Ikaw nga akon alagad, may dako pa ako nga buluhaton nga ipabuhat sa imo, luwas sa pagpabalik mo sa mga Israelinhon nga akon ginaprotektaran. Himuon ko pa ikaw
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Manluluwas kag Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, sa tawo nga ginainsulto kag ginakangil-aran sang mga nasyon, kag alagad sang mga pangulo, “Makita sang mga hari kon sin-o ka gid kag magatindog sila sa pagtahod sa imo sa pagtahod sa imo . Ang mga pangulo magasaludo sa pagpadungog sa imo sa pagpadungog sa imo . Matabo ini tungod sa akon, ang akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga matutom, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel. Ako ang nagpili sa imo.”
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Sa husto nga tion
“Mangin pareho sila sa mga karnero nga magahalab sa higad sang mga alagyan ukon sa mga bukid nga mahawan sadto.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya katawhan, sa iya katawhan, “Ginsikway ko bala ang Jerusalem
Sin-o bala sa inyo ang nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagatuman sang mga ginatudlo sang iya alagad? Dapat magsalig siya sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios bisan nagalakat man siya sa kadulom nga wala gid sing kasanag.
Pero mag-andam kamo nga nagapadihot sa paglaglag sa iban; malaglag kamo sa inyo kaugalingon nga padihot!
Ngaa bala wala kamo magsapak sang pag-abot ko? Ngaa wala kamo magsabat sang nagpanawag ako? Indi bala ako makasarang sa pagluwas sa inyo? Masarangan ko gani nga pamalahon ang dagat sa isa lang ka pagmando kag himuon nga desierto ang mga suba, nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagkalamatay sang mga isda.
Masarangan ko man nga padulmon ang langit pareho kaitom sang bayo sa paglalaw.”
Gintudluan ako sang Ginoong Dios Dios kon ano ang akon ihambal para mapabaskog ko ang mga ginakapoy. Ginapukaw niya ako kada aga sa pagpamati sang iya itudlo sa akon.
Naghambal ang Ginoong Dios Dios sa akon kag nagpamati ako. Wala ako magsupak ukon magpalagyo sa iya.
Ginataya ko ang akon likod sa mga nagahanot sa akon kag ang akon guya sa mga nagagabot sang akon bungot. Ginapabay-an ko sila sa pagpakahuya sa akon kag sa pagdupla sa akon guya.
Pero wala ako nakabatyag sang kahuya, kay ginabuligan ako sang Ginoong Dios Dios . Gani nagpakatig-a lang ako pareho sa matig-a gid nga bato,
Malapit sa akon ang Dios nga nagapamatuod nga inosente ako. Ti sin-o ang mangahas sa pag-akusar sa akon? Magpakita siya kag mag-atubang sa akon!
Pamati! Ang Ginoong Dios Dios amo ang nagabulig sa akon. Sin-o bala ang makasiling nga nakasala ako? Mangin pareho sila sa panapton nga magagabok, nga ut-uton sang mga sapat-sapat.
Indi bala nga ikaw man ang nagpamala sang dagat sa paghimo sang alagyan sa tunga sini para makatabok ang imo katawhan nga imo imo katawhan nga imo ginluwas sa Egypt sa Egypt ?
Magabalik sa Jerusalem ang imo mga ginluwas nga nagakinanta, nga wala untat ang ila kalipay. Madula na ang ila kasubo, kag magaawas ang ila kalipay.
Nagsabat ang Ginoo , Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ako amo ang nagapabakod kag nagapalipay sa inyo. Gani ngaa mahadlok kamo sa inyo kapareho nga tawo nga mapatay man lang pareho sa hilamon?
Ginkalimtan na bala ninyo ako nga naghimo sa inyo? Ako ang naghumlad sang kalangitan kag nagbutang sang mga pundasyon sang kalibutan. Ngaa nagakabuhi kamo nga permi lang nahadlok sa kaakig sang mga nagadaogdaog sa inyo kag gusto maglaglag sa inyo? Ang ila kaakig indi na makaano sa inyo.
Sa indi madugay buy-an ang mga ginbihag sa inyo. Indi sila mapatay sa ginprisohan sa ila, kag indi sila mawad-an sang pagkaon.
Kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, ang nagalabugay sang dagat kag nagapalinagumba sang mga balod. Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo ang akon ngalan.
Gintudlo ko sa inyo kon ano ang akon ipahambal, kag ginaprotektaran ko kamo sang akon gahom. Ako ang nagpahamtang sang kalangitan kag ang nagbutang sang mga pundasyon sang kalibutan, kag ako ang nagsiling sa Jerusalem, ‘Ikaw ang akon katawhan.’ ”
Magbangon ka, Jerusalem! Ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sa ilimnon nga gin-ubos mo inom hasta nga nagduling-duling ka sa kahubog.
Wala sing isa sa imo katawhan
Natabo sa imo ining duha ka kalamidad: naguba ka tungod sa inaway kag nag-antos sa kagutom ang imo katawhan. Wala sing may nabilin sa imo katawhan nga mag-uloulo kag maglipay sa imo.
Nagkalalipong sila kag nagahamyang sa eskina sang tagsa ka dalan. Pareho sila sa usa nga nasiod sa lambat. Naaguman nila ang puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo ; ginsabdong sila sang imo Dios.
Gani pamatii ninyo ini, kamo nga mga nagaantos kag nagkalahubog indi tungod sang bino.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagaapin sa inyo: “Pamati! Ginkuha ko na ang akon kaakig nga pareho sa ilimnon nga nakapahubog sa inyo. Indi ko na kamo pagpaimnon sini liwat.
Ihatag ko ini sa mga nagapaantos sa inyo, nga nagsugo sa inyo nga maghapa para tapakan ang inyo mga likod nga daw sa nagaagi sila sa dalan.”
Kaluoyan ko gid ang Jerusalem
“Pamati kamo sa akon, O katawhan ko. Talupangda ninyo ako, O nasyon ko. Ihatag ko ang akon kasuguan kag magapasanag ini sa mga nasyon.
Madali ko na lang kamo hatagan sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong. Sa indi madugay luwason ko kamo. Pagadumalahan ko ang mga nasyon. Ang ara sa malayo nga mga lugar
Tan-awa ninyo ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan. Madula ang kalangitan pareho sa aso, kag magagabok ang kalibutan pareho sa panapton, kag magakalamatay ang mga pumuluyo sini pareho sa mga sapat-sapat. Pero ang kaluwasan nga ihatag ko magapadayon sa wala sing katapusan. Ang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong nga halin sa akon mangin inyo hasta san-o.
“Pamatii ninyo ako, kamo nga nakahibalo kon ano ang husto kag nagatuman sang akon kasuguan! Indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga pagpakahuya ukon mga pagyaguta sang mga tawo sa inyo.
Kay mangin pareho sila sa panapton nga gin-ut-ot sang mga sapat-sapat. Pero ang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong nga ihatag ko magapadayon sa wala sing katapusan. Ang kaluwasan nga halin sa akon mangin inyo hasta san-o.”
Sige na, Ginoo Ginoo , buligi kami. Gamita ang imo gahom sa pagluwas sa amon. Buligi kami pareho sa imo ginhimo sang una. Indi bala ikaw ang nag-utod-utod sa dragon nga si Rahab?
Magbangon ka, O Zion, kag magpakabakod! Ipakita ang imo pagkagamhanan, O balaan nga siyudad sang Jerusalem. Kay ang imo mga kaaway nga imo mga kaaway nga mga indi Israelinhon,
Ipakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya pinasahi
Kamo nga mga nagadala sang mga kagamitan sang templo sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , maghalin na kamo sa Babilonia! Magguwa na kamo dira! Indi kamo magtandog sa mga ginakabig nga mahigko. Magguwa na kamo sa Babilonia, kag magpakabalaan.
Pero sa sini nga tion indi na kinahanglan nga magdali-dali kamo sa paghalin, nga daw sa nagapalagyo kamo, kay magauna ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo. Ang Dios sang Israel amo ang magaprotektar sa inyo.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pamati! Magmauswagon ang akon alagad, mangin bantog siya kag padunggan.
Madamo ang natingala sa iya, kay naguba gid ang iya hitsura kag daw indi na ini hitsura sang tawo.
Pati mga nasyon matingala sa iya. Indi makahambal ang mga hari tungod sa iya, kay makita nila ang mga butang nga wala ginsugid sa ila, kag maintiendihan nila ang mga butang nga wala pa nila mabatian.”
Indi ka na magpangasubo pareho sang tawo nga masinulub-on nga nagapungko sa duta, kundi magbangon ka kag magdumala liwat. Kag kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Zion,
Kag karon ano naman ang natabo sa inyo? Ginbihag kamo sang Babilonia sang Babilonia nga wala man lang sing kapuslanan. Ginadumalahan nila kamo kag ginayaguta. Permi pa nila ginainsulto ang akon ngalan.
Pero magaabot ang tion nga mahibaluan ninyo kon sin-o gid ako, kay ako mismo ang nagahambal sa inyo. Huo, ako gid mismo.”
Daw ano kanami kon makita mo ang mga mensahero nga nagalatas sa mga bukid sa pagsugid sang maayong balita nga may kalinong na ang Jerusalem kag mangin maayo na ang kahimtangan sini tungod nga luwason ini sang Dios. Nagasiling sila sa mga taga-Jerusalem, “Nagahari ang inyo Dios!”
Magasinggit sa kalipay ang mga guwardya sang siyudad kay makita gid nila ang pagbalik sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem.
Magsinggit sa kalipay ang Jerusalem nga naguba, kay lipayon kag pabaskugon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya katawhan. Luwason niya ang Jerusalem!
Sin-o bala ang nagpati sa amon mensahi? Sin-o bala sa mga ginpakitaan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang iya gahom ang nagtuo?
Pero kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo nga sakiton kag paantuson siya. Bisan ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kabuhi bilang halad nga bayad sa sala, makita niya ang iya mga kaliwat kag makabaton siya sing malawig nga kabuhi, kag paagi sa iya matuman ang kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kon makita niya ang mga nahimo sang iya mga pag-antos, malipay siya. Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Paagi sa kaalam sang akon matarong nga alagad madamo ang iya pakamatarungon; magaantos siya para sa ila mga sala.
Gani ihatag ko sa iya ang kadungganan nga para sa bantog kag gamhanan nga mga tawo, kay ginhatag niya ang iya kabuhi: Ginkabig siya nga isa sa mga makasasala.
Kabubut-on sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ang iya alagad mangin pareho sa tanom nga nagatubo, nga nagapanggamot sa mamala nga duta. Wala siya sing katahom ukon kaambong nga manamian kita sa iya.
Ginyaguta siya kag ginsikway sang mga tawo. Madamo ang iya mga kasakit kag mga pag-antos. Gintalikdan ta siya, gin-insulto, kag ginbaliwala.
Sa pagkamatuod, siya ang nag-antos sang mga kasakit kag mga pag-antos nga para kuntani sa aton.
Ang matuod, ginpilas siya tungod sa aton mga paglapas; ginhanot siya tungod sa aton mga kalautan. Ang silot nga iya gin-antos amo ang nakahatag sa aton sang maayo nga kahimtangan kag paagi sa iya mga pilas gin-ayo kita.
Tanan kita pareho sa mga karnero nga nagtalang; kada isa sa aton nagpagusto kon ano ang iya luyag himuon. Pero siya ang ginpaantos sang Ginoo Ginoo sang silot nga para kuntani sa aton tanan.
Gindaogdaog siya kag ginsakit, pero wala gid siya nagreklamo. Pareho siya sang karnero nga ginadala sa ilihawan para ihawon, ukon sang karnero nga samtang ginaguntingan wala gid nagatingog.
Gindakop siya, ginhukman, kag ginpatay. Wala gid sa iya henerasyon ang nakatalupangod nga ginpatay siya tungod sang ila mga sala, nga gin-antos niya ang silot nga para kuntani sa ila.
Bisan wala siya sing sala nga nahimo kag bisan wala siya nagpangdaya,
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magkalipay ka, baw-as nga babayi. Maghugyaw ka sa kalipay, ikaw nga wala pa gid makaagi sing pasakit sa pagbata. Tungod nga bisan ginbayaan ka sang imo bana, mas madamo pa ang imo mabata sang sa babayi nga nagapuyo upod sa iya bana.
Bisan magkalatiphag pa ang mga bukid, ang akon gugma indi gid madula, subong man ang akon kasugtanan sa imo nga hatagan ko ikaw sang maayo nga kahimtangan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga naluoy sa imo, ang nagasiling sini.
“O Jerusalem, daw ginbagyuhan ka. Nag-antos ka kag wala gid sing may naglipay kag nagpabaskog sa imo. Pero tukuron ko liwat ikaw sa mga pundasyon nga halin sa mga bato nga bato nga sapiro kag gamiton ko ang malahalon nga mga bato sa paghimo sang mga dingding sang imo mga balay.
Gamiton ko ang mga bato nga bato nga rubi sa paghimo sang imo mga tore, kag gamiton ko ang matahom nga mga bato sa paghimo sang imo mga puwertahan kag mga pader.
Ako mismo ang magatudlo sa imo katawhan,
Mangin mabakod ka tungod nga magakabuhi sing matarong ang imo katawhan. Magapalagyo sa imo ang imo mga kaaway, gani wala ka sing kahadlukan. Indi na makapalapit sa imo ang imo mga kaaway nga nagapahadlok sa imo.
Kon may magsalakay sa imo, indi ina akon kagustuhan. Magasurender sa imo ang magasalakay sa imo.
“Pamati! Ako mismo ang naghimo sang mga panday sang metal, nga nagadabok sang kalayo kag nagahimo sang armas. Kag ako man ang naghimo sang mga manuglaglag nga nagagamit sang sini nga mga armas sa pagpanglaglag.
Wala sing armas nga ginhimo nga magadaog sa imo, kag masabat mo ang mga akusasyon kontra sa imo. Amo ina ang maangkon sang akon mga alagad. Mabaton nila ang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong halin sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Pasangkara kag pabakura
Kay magasangkad ang imo mga border, sakupon sang imo katawhan ang iban nga mga nasyon, kag puy-an nila ang mga banwa sini nga ginpabay-an na.
“Indi ka magkahadlok, kay indi ka mahuy-an. Sigurado nga malipatan mo na ang kahuy-anan sang imo pagkabataon kag subong man sang imo pagkabalo.
Kay ako nga ako nga imo Manunuga mangin pareho sa isa ka bana sa imo. Makagagahom nga Ginoo Ginoo ang akon ngalan. Ako, Ako, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, amo ang imo Manluluwas. Ginatawag ako nga ‘Dios sang bilog nga kalibutan.’
Jerusalem, Jerusalem, pareho ka sa bataon pa nga asawa nga nagapangasubo tungod nga ginbayaan siya sang iya bana. Pero karon ginatawag ko ikaw nga magbalik sa akon.
Sa malip-ot nga tion ginbayaan ko ikaw, pero sa dako ko nga kaluoy kuhaon ko ikaw liwat.
Tungod sa puwerte ko nga kaakig sa imo gintalikdan ko ikaw sa malip-ot nga tion, pero tungod sa akon wala sing katapusan nga gugma, kaluoyan ko ikaw. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Manluluwas, ang nagasiling sini.
“Para sa akon, pareho ini sang panahon
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Palapit kamo, tanan kamo nga ginauhaw, ari ang tubig! Bisan wala kamo sing kuwarta, magbakal kamo kag magkaon! Dali kamo, magbakal kamo sang bino kag gatas nga wala sing bayad!
Ang ulan kag ang snow nagahalin sa langit, kag wala ini nagabalik didto kon indi ini anay makahatag sang tubig sa kalibutan kag makapatubo sang mga tanom para maghatag ini sang binhi sa mga manugpanggas kag kalan-on sa mga tawo.
Amo man ang mga pulong nga akon ginahambal, indi ini mangin wala sing pulos, kundi magahimo ini sang akon nga plano; magatuman ini sang akon katuyuan sa pagpadala sini.
Mga Israelinhon, Mga Israelinhon, magahalin kamo sa Babilonia sa Babilonia nga malipayon, kag pagatuytuyan ko kamo nga indi kamo maano. Daw sa magakanta sa kalipay ang mga bukid, kag daw sa magapalakpak ang tanan nga kakahuyan.
Magatubo ang mga kahoy nga sipres kag mirto sa ginatubuan karon sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy. Ang ini nga mga hitabo magahatag sang kadungganan sa akon; mangin tanda ini hasta san-o sang akon pagkagamhanan.”
Ngaa nagagasto kamo sang inyo kuwarta sa indi kalan-on? Ngaa ginagasto ninyo ang inyo mga suweldo sa indi man lang makabusog sa inyo? Pamati kamo sa akon kag makakaon kamo sang manamit nga pagkaon kag mabusog gid kamo.
Magpalapit kamo kag magpamati sa akon para magkabuhi kamo. Magahimo ako sang wala sing katapusan nga kasugtanan sa inyo. Ipakita ko sa inyo ang akon dako nga gugma kag katutom nga ginpromisa ko kay David.
Ginhimo ko siya nga pangulo sang mga nasyon, kag paagi sa iya ginpakita ko ang akon gahom sa ila.
Tawgon ninyo ang mga nasyon nga indi ninyo kaupod, kag magadali-dali sila kadto sa inyo tungod kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, nagpadungog sa inyo.”
Magdangop kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo kag magpanawag sa iya samtang ara pa siya nga magbulig sa inyo.
Magbiya na ang mga malain sa ila kalainan kag magbaylo na sa ila malain nga panghunahuna. Magbalik na sila sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios kay kaluoyan niya sila kag patawaron.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ang akon panghunahuna indi pareho sa inyo panghunahuna, kag ang akon pagginawi indi pareho sa inyo pagginawi.
Subong nga layo ang distansya sang langit sa duta, layo man ang akon pagginawi kag panghunahuna sa inyo.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Ipakita ninyo ang hustisya kag maghimo kamo sing matarong, kay sa indi madugay luwason ko na kamo kag hatagan sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong.
Kay ang mga pangulo sang Israel nga manugbantay kuntani sang sini nga nasyon daw mga bulag kag wala sila sing may nahibaluan. Pareho sila sa mga bantay nga mga ido nga wala nagataghol. Gusto lang nila nga magligid, magtulog, kag magdamgo.
Pareho sila sa mga ido nga dalok-dalok nga wala sing kabulusgan. Sila nga mga manug-atipan sang Israel wala sing pag-intiendi. Ang kada isa sa ila nagapagusto kon ano ang iya luyag himuon kag nagapangita sang iya kaugalingon nga kaayuhan.
Nagasiling pa sila, “Dali, makuha kita sang ilimnon kag magpahubog! Mas madamo pa ini buwas sang sa subong.”
Bulahan ang tawo nga nagahimo sini kag ang nagatuman sa ginapahimo ko sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kag wala nagabaliwala sini. Kag bulahan man ang tawo nga wala nagahimo sang malain.”
Ang mga indi Israelinhon nga nagtugyan sang ila kabuhi sa Ginoo Ginoo indi dapat maghunahuna nga indi gid sila pag-isimpon sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya katawhan. Kag ang mga tawo nga ginkapon indi man dapat maghunahuna nga tungod tungod indi sila makabata
Kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “ Pakamaayuhon ko Pakamaayuhon ko ang mga tawo nga ginkapon nga nagatuman sa akon mga ginapahimo sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag nagahimo sang mga butang nga makapalipay sa akon kag nagatuman sang akon kasugtanan.
Tugutan ko sila nga magsulod sa akon templo kag hatagan ko sila sang kadungganan nga labaw pa sa kadungganan nga mabaton nila kon may mga kabataan sila. Tugutan ko nga dumdumon sila sang mga tawo hasta san-o.
Pakamaayuhon ko man Pakamaayuhon ko man ang mga indi Israelinhon nga nagtugyan sang ila kabuhi sa akon para alagaron ako, higugmaon, kag simbahon, kag nagatuman sila sa akon mga ginapahimo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kag wala nagabaliwala sini, kag matutom sila sa akon kasugtanan.
Dal-on ko sila sa akon balaan nga bukid, kag lipayon ko sila didto sa akon balay nga palangamuyuan.
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga nagtipon sang mga ginbihag nga mga Israelinhon, “Tipunon ko pa gid ang iban, wala labot sadtong natipon ko na.”
Palapit kamo, tanan kamo nga mga nasyon nga pareho sa mapintas nga mga sapat, kag laglaga ninyo ang katawhan sang Israel.
Kon mapatay ang isa ka matarong nga tawo, wala kaayo sing may nagapamangkot kon ngaa. Wala kaayo sing may nakaintiendi nga ginakuha sang Dios ang mga diosnon nga mga tawo para makalikaw sila sa mga malain.
Bisan ginakapuyan na kamo sa pagpangita sang mga dios-dios, wala gihapon kamo nagakadulaan sang paglaom. Ginapabaskog ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon, gani wala gid kamo nagaluya.
Nagasiling ang Ginoo , Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sin-o bala ining mga dios-dios nga inyo ginakahadlukan nga nagbutig kamo sa akon? Ginkalimtan ninyo ako kag wala nagasapak sa akon. Ano bala ang rason kon ngaa wala na kamo nagatahod sa akon? Tungod bala nga daw sa naghipos lang ako sa sulod sang malawig nga tion?
Nagahunahuna kamo nga matarong na gid ang inyo mga ginahimo, pero ipakita ko kon ano gid kamo nga klase sang tawo. Kag indi makabulig sa inyo ang inyo mga dios-dios.
Huo, indi gid makabulig ang mga dios-dios kon magpangayo kamo sang bulig sa ila. Palidon sila tanan sang hangin; mapalid sila sa isa lang ka huyop. Pero ang mga nagasalig sa akon magapuyo sa duta
Magasiling ako, ‘Kay-uha ang dalan. Kuhaa ang mga nagasablag sa dalan nga pagaagyan sang akon katawhan.’ ”
Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Labing Mataas nga Dios, ang Balaan nga Dios nga nagakabuhi hasta san-o: “Nagapuyo ako sa mataas kag balaan nga lugar, pero nagapuyo man ako upod sa mga tawo nga mapainubuson kag mahinulsulon, para mapabaskog ko sila.
Sa pagkamatuod, indi ako magkontra ukon magkaakig hasta san-o, kay kon himuon ko ini, magkalamatay ang mga tawo nga akon ginhimo.
Naakig ako tungod sa sala kag pagkadalok sang Israel, gani ginsilutan ko sila kag gintalikdan. Pero padayon gihapon sila sa pagpakasala.
Nakita ko ang ila pagginawi, pero ayuhon ko sila. Tuytuyan ko sila, kag lipayon ko ang mga nagapangasubo sa ila.
Kag dayon magadayaw sila sa akon. Hatagan ko sila sang maayo nga kahimtangan, bisan sa malayo sila ukon sa malapit. Ayuhon ko gid sila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Kay kon mapatay ang isa ka matarong nga tawo, may kalinong kag kapahuwayan na siya.
Pero ang mga malain wala sing kalinong; pareho sila sa mabalod nga dagat nga nagadala sang mga sagbot kag higko sa higad.
Indi gid makaangkon ang mga malain sang maayo nga kahimtangan.” Amo ini ang ginasiling sang akon Dios.
Pero kamo nga mga kaliwat sang mga babaylan, sang mga nagapanginbabayi, kag sang mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas, palapit kamo para masentensyahan kamo para masentensyahan kamo .
Ginayaguta ninyo ang mga matarong; ginapakiwian kag ginapadiwalan ninyo sila. Mga kaliwat kamo sang mga rebelde kag mga butigon.
Ginasimba ninyo ang inyo mga dios-dios paagi sa pagpakighilawas sa idalom sang tagsa ka madabong nga kahoy. Ginahalad pa ninyo ang inyo mga bata sa mga ililigan sang tubig sa idalom sang mga banglid.
Ang mahining nga mga bato sa mga ililigan sang tubig amo ang inyo mga dios. Ginasimba ninyo ini paagi sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ilimnon kag mga halad nga regalo. Malipay bala ako sa sining ginahimo ninyo?
Nagataklad kamo sa mataas nga bukid kag maghalad sang inyo mga halad didto kag magpakighilawas.
Ginabutang pa ninyo ang mga imahen sang inyo mga dios-dios sa puwertahan dampi sang inyo mga balay. Ginasikway ninyo ako; pareho kamo sa babayi nga nagapanginlalaki nga nagsaka sa malapad nga katre, nga nagapasugot nga maghulid sila sang iya kerido. Nanamian gid siya nga magpakighilawas sa iya lalaki; ginapagustuhan niya ang iya kailigbon.
Nagkadto kamo sa inyo dios-dios nga si Molec nga may dala nga lana kag madamo nga pahamot. Nagpasugo pa kamo nga magpangita sang mga dios-dios sa malayo nga mga lugar para inyo simbahon. Bisan ang lugar sang mga patay daw pakadtuan pa ninyo.
Nagasiling ang Ginoo , Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magsinggit kamo sing tudo nga daw pareho katunog sa budyong! Indi ninyo ini pagpunggi! Ipahibalo sa akon katawhan nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob ang ila mga sala kag mga paglapas.
kag kon pakaunon ninyo ang mga ginagutom kag hatagan ang mga imol sang ila mga kinahanglanon, magaabot sa inyo ang kaluwasan nga magapasanag sang inyo madulom nga kahimtangan subong udtong-adlaw.
Tuytuyan ko kamo permi, kag hatagan ko kamo sang kabulusgan bisan mabudlay ang inyo kahimtangan.
Patindugon liwat sang inyo mga kaliwat ang inyo mga banwa nga dugay na nga nagkalaguba, kag kay-uhon nila ang daan na nga mga pundasyon. Kilalahon kamo nga katawhan nga nagkay-o sang ila nagkalaguba nga mga pader kag mga balay.
“Tumana ninyo ang akon mga ginapahimo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Indi ninyo paghunahunaa ang inyo kaugalingon lang nga kalipayan sa sinang pinasahi nga adlaw. Ikalipay ninyo ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag padunggi ninyo ini paagi sa pagpugong sang inyo kaugalingon nga gusto kag kalipayan, kag sa pag-untat sa paghambal sang mga wala sing pulos.
Kon himuon ninyo ini, mangin malipayon kamo sa inyo pagpangalagad sa akon. Padunggan ko pa kamo sa bilog nga kalibutan. Busgon ko kamo sang mga patubas sang duta nga ginpanubli sang inyo katigulangan nga si Jacob. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagadangop sila sa akon adlaw-adlaw, kag daw gusto gid nila nga makahibalo sang akon mga pamaagi. Kon tan-awon daw matarong sila nga nasyon kag wala nagasikway sang akon mga sugo. Ginapakita nila nga daw gusto gid nila nga magpalapit sa akon kag magpangayo sang matarong nga paghukom.
“ Amo ini ang akon sabat Amo ini ang akon sabat : Ang matuod, samtang nagapuasa kamo, ang inyo kaugalingon lang nga kalipayan ang ginahunahuna ninyo; kag ginaabuso pa ninyo ang inyo mga trabahador.
Nagapuasa kamo matuod, pero nagailinaway kag nagabinaisay kamo, kag nagasumbaganay pa gani. Indi kamo maghunahuna nga ang pagpuasa nga ginahimo ninyo subong makabulig para pamatian ko ang inyo mga pangamuyo.
Kon magpuasa kamo, nagapenetensya kamo. Nagaduko ang inyo mga ulo nga daw sa mga kugon, kag nagahigda kamo sa abo nga nagasuksok sang sako. Amo bala ina ang ginatawag ninyo nga puasa? Nagahunahuna bala kamo nga makapalipay ina sa akon?
“Ang klase sang puasa nga luyag ko amo ang puasa nga ginaupdan sining matarong nga mga pagginawi ginaupdan sining matarong nga mga pagginawi : Ginauntatan ninyo ang pagpang-abuso kag ang pagpangpriso sa mga inosente, kag ginahilway ninyo ang mga ginadaogdaog.
Ginahatagan ninyo sang pagkaon ang mga ginagutom, ginapaestar ninyo sa inyo mga balay ang mga wala sing elistaran, ginapabayuan ninyo ang mga wala sing bayo, kag ginabuligan ninyo ang inyo mga paryente.
Kon himuon ninyo ini, magaabot sa inyo ang kaluwasan
“Kon untatan na ninyo ang pagpamigos, ang pag-akusar sang indi matuod, kag ang paghambal sang malain,
Pamati! Indi maluya ang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi siya makaluwas sa inyo, ukon indi siya bungol nga indi siya makabati kon magpanawag kamo sa iya kon magpanawag kamo sa iya .
Nagapangapkap kita pareho sa bulag, kag nagakasandad kita bisan udtong-adlaw nga daw sa nagalakat kita sa kadulom. Pareho man kita sa mga bangkay kon ikomparar sa makusog nga mga tawo.
Nagaugayong kita sa kasubo pareho sa nagauwang nga bear kag pareho sa huni sang pating. Nagapaabot kita nga silutan sang Dios ang aton mga kaaway kag luwason niya kita, pero wala gihapon natabo.
Kay madamo na ang aton mga sala sa atubangan sang Dios, kag amo ini ang nagapamatuod nga dapat kita silutan. Huo, nakahibalo kita nga permi kita nagapakasala.
Nagrebelde kita kag nagluib sa Ginoo Ginoo ; nagtalikod kita sa aton Dios. Nagplano kita sang pagpang-abuso kag pagrebelde. Ginahunahuna ta sing maayo kon paano naton himuon ang aton pagbinutig.
Amo ina nga wala pa pagsiluti sang Dios ang aton mga kaaway kag wala pa niya kita ginhatagan sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong. Kay indi na makita ang kamatuoran bisan diin; ang mga tawo indi na masaligan.
Nakita ini sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala siya malipay nga wala na sing hustisya.
Natingala siya sa iya nakita nga wala gid sing bisan isa nga nagbulig sa mga ginadaogdaog. Gani paagi sa iya nga gahom ginluwas niya sila, kag ang iya pagkamatarong nakabulig sa iya.
Gin-gamit niya bilang panagang sa dughan ang pagkamatarong kag bilang helmet ang kaluwasan. Ginsuksok niya bilang bayo ang pagbalos kag ang puwerte nga kaakig.
Balusan niya ang iya mga kaaway suno sa ila binuhatan; pati atong sa malayo nga mga lugar.
Bisan diin tahuron kag padunggan siya sang mga tawo, kay magaabot siya pareho sa nagahuganas nga tubig, nga ginahuyop sang mabaskog nga hangin.
Ang inyo mga sala amo ang nagapaseparar sa inyo sa Dios kag amo ang kabangdanan nga nagtalikod siya sa inyo kag indi na magpamati sang inyo mga pangamuyo.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magaabot sa Zion
Kag amo ini ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo: Indi gid madula ang akon Espiritu nga ara sa inyo kag ang akon mga pulong nga akon ginpahambal sa inyo. Isugid ninyo ini sa inyo mga kabataan, kag dayon isugid man nila ini sa ila mga kabataan hasta sa palaabuton nga henerasyon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Kay nagapamatay kamo sang tawo, kag nagahimo sang iban pa nga kalautan. Nagabutig kamo kag nagahambal sang malain.
Wala kamo nagahunahuna sang hustisya; ang inyo mga akusasyon sa inyo isigkatawo wala sing kamatuoran. Nagasalig kamo sa kabutigan kag nagabinutig mismo. Nagaplano kamo sing malain, kag dayon ginahimo ninyo ini.
Nagadali kamo sa paghimo sang sala kag maabtik kamo nga magpatay sang mga inosente. Malain ang inyo mga ginahunahuna, kag bisan diin kamo magkadto nagapanglaglag kamo.
Wala kamo sing may nahibaluan parte sa kalinong.
Amo ina nga wala pa pagsiluti sang Dios ang aton mga kaaway, kag wala pa niya kita ginhatagan sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong. Naghulat kita sang kasanag, pero kadulom ang nag-abot. Amo ina nga nagalakat kita sa kadulom.
“Magbangon ka, O Jerusalem, kag magsilak, kay nag-abot na ang imo kaluwasan;
Nagasiling ang Ginoo sa imo, Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo, “Patindugon sang mga taga-iban nga lugar ang imo mga pader, kag ang ila mga hari magaalagad sa imo. Bisan ginsilutan ko ikaw sa akon kaakig, kaluoyan ko ikaw tungod sa akon kaayo.
Permi lang nga mangin bukas ang imo puwertahan adlaw-gab-i, sa pagbaton sang mga manggad sang mga nasyon. Magaparada ang mga hari pasulod sa imo.
Kay malaglag gid sing bug-os ang mga nasyon ukon ginharian nga indi mag-alagad sa imo.
“Ang manggad sang Lebanon mangin imo—ang ila mga kahoy nga sipres, enebro, kag pino
Ang mga kaliwat sang mga nagadaogdaog sa imo magapalapit sa imo nga nagasaludo. Magaluhod sa imo tiilan ang mga nagainsulto sa imo, kag tawgon ka nila nga ‘Siyudad sang Ginoo Ginoo ,’ ukon ‘Zion nga Siyudad nga Siyudad sang Balaan nga Dios nga Dios sang Israel.’
“Bisan ginsikway ka kag gindumtan, kag wala sing may nagsapak sa imo, himuon ko ikaw nga halangdon hasta san-o, kag igakalipay ka sang tanan nga henerasyon.
Tatapon ka sang mga nasyon kag sang ila mga hari pareho sa isa ka bata nga ginapatiti sang iya iloy. Dayon mahibaluan mo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang imo Manluluwas kag Manughilway, ang Makagagahom nga Dios ni Jacob.
Bayluhan ko ang mga materyales sang imo templo: ang mga saway bayluhan ko sang bulawan, ang mga salsalon bayluhan ko sang mga pilak, ang mga kahoy bayluhan ko sang saway, kag ang mga bato bayluhan ko sang salsalon. Kag mangibabaw sa inyo ang kalinong kag pagkamatarong.
Wala na sing pagpamintas nga mabatian sa imo duta. Wala na sing mga kalaglagan nga magaabot sa imo. Magapalibot sa imo ang kaluwasan nga daw sa mga pader, kag magadayaw sa akon ang magasulod sa imo mga puwertahan.
“Ang adlaw kag ang bulan indi na mangin kasanag sa imo kon adlaw kag gab-i, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo na ang imo kasanag hasta san-o. Ako nga Ako nga imo Dios amo na ang imo katahom.
Pagatabunan sang puwerte nga kadulom ang mga nasyon sa kalibutan, pero ikaw ya pagasilakan sang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ako ang imo mangin adlaw kag bulan nga indi na magsalop; ako ang imo kasanag hasta san-o. Kag mauntat na ang imo mga pag-antos.
Ang tanan mo nga katawhan mangin matarong, kag panag-iyahan nila ang duta sang Israel sang Israel hasta san-o. Ginhimo ko sila; pareho sila sa tanom nga akon gintanom para sa akon kadungganan.
Diutay lang sila, pero magadamo gid sila. Mga kubos sila, pero mangin gamhanan sila nga nasyon. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang magahimo sini gilayon sa husto nga tion.”
Magapalapit sa imo kasanag ang mga nasyon kag ang ila mga hari.
“Tan-awa sa imo palibot; nagatipon na ang imo katawhan sa pagpuli halin sa malayo; pareho sila sa mga bata nga ginakugos.
Kon makita mo na ini mangin malipayon ka, kag magaawas gid ang imo kalipay, kay ang mga manggad sang mga nasyon pagadal-on sa imo.
Mapuno ang imo duta sang mga camel sang mga taga-Midian kag sang mga taga-Efa. Magaabot sila sa imo halin sa Sheba nga may dala nga mga bulawan kag mga insenso para magsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Dal-on sang taga-Kedar kag sang taga-Nebayot ang ila mga karnero sa imo, kag ihalad ini sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo para malipay siya. Himuon pa gid sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya templo nga halangdon.
Ang Espiritu sang Ginoong Dios Dios ari sa akon. Kay ginpili niya ako nga magwali sang maayong balita sa mga imol. Ginpadala niya ako sa paglipay sa mga nasakitan kag sa pagsugid sa mga bihag kag mga priso nga hilway na sila.
Nagakalipay gid ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios, kay pareho lang nga ginpabayuan niya ako sang kaluwasan kag kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong. Pareho ako sa nobyo nga may matahom nga turban pareho sang pari ukon nobya nga may mga alahas.
Kay subong nga ang duta nagapatubo sang binhi, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nagahatag sang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong, kag dayawon siya sang mga nasyon.
Patindugon nila liwat ang ila mga banwa nga dugay na nga nagkalaguba.
Mga katawhan sang Dios, magaalagad sa inyo Mga katawhan sang Dios, magaalagad sa inyo ang mga taga-iban nga lugar. Bantayan nila ang inyo mga kasapatan, kag magatrabaho sila sa inyo mga uma kag mga talamnan sang ubas.
Tawgon kamo nga mga pari sang Ginoo Ginoo , mga alagad sang aton Dios. Mabusog kamo sa manggad sang mga nasyon, kag malipay kamo nga maangkon ninyo ini.
Sa baylo nga mahuy-an kamo, madoble pa ang pagpakamaayo nga mabaton ninyo sa inyo duta, kag malipay gid kamo sa inyo mabaton. Ang inyo kalipay magapadayon hasta san-o.
“Kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , naluyag sang hustisya. Ginakaugtan ko ang pagpangawat kag ang iban pa nga kalautan. Sa akon katutom hatagan ko sang balos ang akon katawhan kag mahimo ako sang wala sing katapusan nga kasugtanan sa ila.
Mangin bantog ang ila mga kaliwat sa mga nasyon. Ang tanan nga makakita sa ila magakilala nga katawhan sila nga akon ginapakamaayo.”
Tungod nga palangga ko ang Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem, indi ako maghipos hasta nga mag-abot sa iya ang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong, nga daw sa nagabutlak nga adlaw, kag hasta nga maangkon niya ang iya kaluwasan nga daw sa nagadabdab nga sulo.
Mga katawhan sang Jerusalem, Mga katawhan sang Jerusalem, magguwa kamo sa mga puwertahan sang inyo siyudad, kag ipreparar ninyo ang alagyan para sa iban pa ninyo nga kasimanwa. Hawani ninyo ini; kuhaa ninyo ang mga bato, kag patinduga ang bandera nga tanda sa mga tawo nga ginapabalik na sang Ginoo ang iya katawhan nga ginapabalik na sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya katawhan .
Pamati! Nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang sini nga mensahi hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan: “Sugiri ang mga pumuluyo sang Zion
Pagatawgon sila nga ‘Pinili nga Katawhan’ kag ‘Mga Ginluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo ,’ kag ang Jerusalem pagatawgon nga ‘Ginahandom nga Siyudad’ kag ‘Wala na Ginasikway nga Siyudad.’ ”
O Jerusalem, O Jerusalem, makita sang mga nasyon kag sang ila mga hari ang imo kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong kag ang imo pagkagamhanan. Hatagan ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sang bag-o nga ngalan.
Mangin pareho ka sang isa ka matahom nga korona sa kamot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios.
Indi ka na pagtawgon nga “Sinikway” ukon “Pinabay-an,” kundi tawgon ka na nga “Kalipay sang Dios” ukon “Ginkasal sa Dios sa Dios ,” kay nalipay ang Ginoo Ginoo sa imo kag daw pareho lang nga kaslon ka sa iya.
Siya nga naghimo sa imo
Kamo nga nagapangamuyo sa Ginoo Ginoo , indi gid kamo mag-untat sa pagpangamuyo.
Indi ninyo pag-untati ang Ginoo Ginoo hasta nga patindugon niya liwat ang Jerusalem kag himuon niya ini nga dalayawon nga lugar sa kalibutan.
Nagsumpa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga himuon niya ini nga butang paagi sa iya gahom: “Indi ko na gid pag-ipakaon ang inyo mga uyas sa inyo mga kaaway nga taga-iban nga lugar. Indi na nila pag-imnon ang duga sang inyo mga ubas nga inyo ginpangabudlayan.
Kamo nga mga nag-ani sang trigo amo ang magakaon sini, kag magadayaw kamo sa akon. Kamo nga mga nagpangharvest sang mga ubas amo ang magainom sang duga sini didto sa akon templo.”
Siya amo ang Ginoo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagasugid nga maangkon na sang iya katawhan ang kadalag-an nga may pagkamatarong. May gahom siya sa pagluwas.
Pero nagrebelde sila kag ginpasubo nila ang iya Espiritu Santo. Gani ginkontra sila sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag nangin kaaway nila siya.
Pero sang ulihi nadumduman nila ang mga nagligad nga panahon nga ginpaguwa ni Moises ang iya katawhan sa Egypt. Nagpamangkot sila, “Diin na bala ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpatabok sa aton sa dagat upod sa aton pangulo nga si Moises nga pareho sang isa ka manugbantay sang mga karnero? Diin na bala ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpadala sa aton
Diin na bala ang Ginoo Diin na bala ang Ginoo Ginoo nga naghatag sang gahom kay Moises, kag nagpihak sang dagat sa aton atubangan, para mabantog siya hasta san-o.
Diin na bala siya Diin na bala siya nga nagtuytoy sa aton sa pagtabok sa dagat? Wala gid kita masandad pareho sa mga kabayo nga nagaagi sa mahawan nga lugar.
Ginoo Ginoo , gintuytuyan mo kami nga imo katawhan, para padunggan ka.
Tan-awa kami halin sa langit, ang balaan kag dungganon mo nga puluy-an. Diin na bala ang imo pagkabalaka sa amon kag ang imo gahom nga ginpakita mo sadto sa amon? Diin na bala ang imo gugma kag kaluoy?
Kay ikaw ang amon Amay bisan indi kami pagkilalahon ni Abraham kag ni Jacob
Ginoo Ginoo , ngaa bala ginatugot mo nga indi kami magsunod sa imo mga pamaagi? Ngaa ginapatig-a mo ang amon mga tagipusuon, nga tungod sini nadula ang amon pagtahod sa imo? Talupangda kami liwat, kay mga alagad mo kami kag imo kami ginapanag-iyahan.
Malip-ot lang nga tion nga ginpanag-iyahan sang imo balaan nga katawhan
Imo kami halin pa sang una. Pero ginakabig mo kami nga daw indi imo, nga daw wala mo ginadumalahan.
Ngaa tama kapula ang iya bayo pareho sa bayo sang tawo nga nagalinas sa pulugaan sang ubas?
Nagsabat ang Ginoo , Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sa akon kaakig ginlinas ko ang mga nasyon nga daw sa mga nasyon nga daw sa mga ubas. Ako lang ang naglinas; wala sing may nag-upod sa akon. Ang ila dugo nag-agsik sa akon bayo; amo ina nga namantsahan ang akon bayo.
Ginhimo ko ini Ginhimo ko ini kay nag-abot na ang adlaw nga balusan ko ang akon mga kaaway kag luwason ko ang akon katawhan.
Natingala ako sang makita ko nga wala gid sing bisan isa nga nagbulig sa akon. Gani ako lang ang nagluwas sa akon katawhan paagi sa akon gahom. Ang akon kaakig amo ang nagtulod sa akon sa pagsilot sa akon mga kaaway.
Sa akon kaakig, gintapak-tapak ko ang mga nasyon, kag ginpaduling-duling ko sila pareho sa hubog. Ginpaagay ko ang ila dugo sa duta.”
Isugid ko ang gugma sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dayawon ko siya sa tanan niya nga ginhimo sa aton. Madamo nga maayo nga mga butang ang iya ginhimo sa aton nga mga katawhan sang Israel tungod sa iya dako nga kaluoy kag gugma.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Matuod gid nga sila ang akon katawhan; mga anak ko sila nga indi magluib sa akon.” Gani ginluwas niya sila.
Sa tanan nila nga mga pag-antos, nagaantos man siya, kag ginluwas niya sila paagi sa anghel nga nagpahayag sang iya presensya. Sa iya gugma kag kaluoy ginluwas niya sila; gin-atipan niya sila sa tanan nga adlaw sang una nga panahon.
Pihaka ang langit, Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , kag magpanaog ka, kag magatay-og ang mga bukid sa imo presensya.
Ang imo balaan nga mga banwa, pati ang Jerusalem, nangin pareho sa kamingawan nga wala sing may nagaestar.
Nasunog ang amon balaan kag matahom nga templo, nga sa diin ginasimba ka sang amon mga katigulangan. Naguba ang tanan nga butang nga amon ginpakamahal.
Bisan pa sa sining tanan, indi mo pa gihapon kami pagbuligan, Ginoo Ginoo ? Maghipos ka na lang bala, kag patam-an mo na lang bala kami sang silot?
Subong nga ang kalayo nagapadukot sang mga sanga nga laya kag nagapabukal sang tubig, ang imo pag-abot magapakurog sa mga nasyon nga imo mga kaaway, kag makilala nila kon sin-o ka.
Sang nagpanaog ka sang una kag naghimo sang makatilingala nga mga butang nga wala namon ginpaabot, nagkurog ang mga bukid sa imo presensya.
Halin sang una hasta subong wala pa gid sing may nakabati ukon may nakakita sang Dios nga pareho sa imo nga nagabulig sa mga nagasalig sa iya.
Ginabaton mo ang nagakalipay sa paghimo sang matarong kag nagasunod sang imo mga pamaagi. Pero nangakig ka sa amon kay padayon kami nga nagasupak sa imo mga pamaagi. Gani paano kami maluwas?
Nangin pareho kami tanan sa mahigko nga butang, kag ang tanan namon nga maayo nga mga binuhatan daw pareho lang sa mahigko nga panapton. Pareho kami tanan sa dahon nga nalaya, kag ang amon kalautan pareho sa hangin nga nagapalid sa amon.
Wala gid sing bisan isa sa amon nga nagadangop sa imo kag nagapaninguha sa pagkapot sa imo. Kay nagtalikod ka sa amon, kag ginpabay-an mo kami nga magkalamatay
Pero sa gihapon ikaw ang amon Amay, Ginoo Ginoo . Pareho ka sa manughimo sang kolon, kag kami pareho sa lunang. Ikaw ang naghimo sa amon tanan.
Ginoo Ginoo , indi pagpatam-i ang imo kaakig sa amon; indi pagdumduma ang amon mga sala hasta san-o. Nagapangabay kami sa imo nga talupangdon mo kami, kay kami tanan imo katawhan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Nagpakilala ako sa mga tawo nga wala nagpamangkot parte sa akon. Nakita nila ako bisan wala sila nagpangita sa akon. Ginpahayag ko ang akon kaugalingon bisan wala sila nagpanawag sa akon.
Pakamaayuhon ko sila nga nagadangop sa akon. Ang kapatagan sang Sharon kag sang Acor mangin palahalban sang ila mga kasapatan.
“Pero silutan ko silutan ko kamo nga nagasikway sa akon kag wala nagasapak sa akon balaan nga bukid kundi nagahalad sa mga dios-dios nga ginapatihan ninyo nga nagahatag sa inyo sang suwerte kag maayo nga kapalaran.
Ang inyo kapalaran amo ang kamatayon, kag magakalaubos kamo patay. Kay sang nagpanawag ako wala kamo nagsabat; sang naghambal ako wala kamo nagpamati. Naghimo kamo sang kalautan sa akon atubangan; kag kon ano ang indi ko nagustuhan, amo ang inyo ginahimo.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga ang akon mga alagad magakaon kag magainom, pero kamo ya gutumon kag uhawon. Magakalipay sila, pero kamo ya pakahuy-an.
Magakanta sila sa kalipay, pero kamo ya magahibi sa kasubo kag kalain sang buot.
Sila nga akon mga pinili magagamit sang inyo ngalan sa pagpakamalaot, kag ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , magapatay sa inyo. Pero sila nga akon mga alagad pagahatagan ko sang bag-o nga ngalan.
Ang bisan sin-o sa duta sang Israel sang Israel nga magbendisyon ukon magsumpa, magahimo sini sa akon ngalan—ang Dios nga masaligan.
“Pamati! Mahimo ako sang bag-o nga langit kag bag-o nga duta. Ang daan nga langit kag duta malimtan na.
Gani magkalipay kamo kag magsinadya hasta san-o sa akon himuon. Kay himuon ko ang Jerusalem nga kalipayan sang mga tawo, kag ang iya katawhan magahatag man sing kalipay.
Magakalipay ako sa Jerusalem kag sa iya katawhan. Indi na mabatian ang mga paghinibi didto ukon ang pagpangayo sang bulig.
Sige ang akon paabot nga magbalik sa akon ang akon akon katawhan nga mga matig-a sing ulo, nga wala nagasunod sa maayo nga pagginawi, kundi ang ila lang hunahuna ang ila ginasunod.
“Wala na didto sang mapatay nga lapsag pa ukon bataon pa. Ang mapatay nga 100 ka tuig ang iya edad kabigon nga bataon pa, kag ang mapatay nga wala makaabot sa 100 kabigon nga ginsilutan ko.
Sa sina nga tion Sa sina nga tion magapatindog ang akon katawhan sang ila balay kag estaran nila ini. Magatanom sila sang mga ubas kag kaunon nila ang mga bunga sini.
Indi na ang ila mga kaaway ang makapulos sang ila mga balay kag mga tanom. Kay subong nga nagakabuhi sing malawig ang kahoy, magakabuhi man sing malawig ang akon katawhan, kag makapulos gid sila sa ila mga ginpangabudlayan.
Indi sila magpangabudlay sa wala sing pulos, ukon magbata sang mga bata nga dimalason sa ulihi. Kay sila nga katawhan kag ang ila mga kaliwat ginpakamaayo ko.
Sa wala pa sila makapangayo ukon samtang nagapangayo pa lang sila, sabton ko na sila.
Magakaon ang wolf upod sa karnero. Ang leon magaharab sang dagami pareho sa baka. Kag ang man-og indi na magpangagat. Wala na sing may magpanghalit ukon magpangguba sa akon balaan nga bukid. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginapaakig nila ako; ginapakita gid nila sa akon atubangan ang ila wala untat nga pagsimba sa ila mga dios-dios paagi sa pagsimba sa ila mga dios-dios paagi sa paghalad sa mga katamnan kag pagsunog sang insenso sa atop sang ila mga balay.
Kon gab-i nagapungko sila sa mga lulubngan kag sa mga tago nga lugar para magpakig-estorya sa mga kalag sang mga patay para magpakig-estorya sa mga kalag sang mga patay . Nagakaon pa sila sang karne sang baboy kag sang iban pa nga pagkaon nga ginadumilian sa ila nga kaunon.
Nagasiling sila sa iban, ‘Indi ka magpalapit sa akon kay basi kon mahigkuan mo ako. Mas balaan ako sang sa imo!’ Ini nga mga tawo nagapaugot sa akon permi. Ang akon kaakig sa ila pareho sa kalayo nga nagadabadaba sa bilog nga adlaw.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Wala ginapierdi ang pinungpong nga mga ubas nga may malain nga mga bunga kay ang maayo nga mga bunga mapuslan pa. Amo man sina ang himuon ko sa akon katawhan, indi ko sila paglaglagon tanan; luwason ko ang mga nagaalagad sa akon.
May ibilin ako nga mga buhi sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob pati na sa tribo ni Juda, kag sila ang magapanubli sang akon duta nga may madamo nga bukid. Sila nga akon mga pinili kag mga alagad magaestar sa sini nga duta.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Ang langit amo ang akon trono, kag ang duta amo ang tulungtungan sang akon mga tiil. Gani Gani ano nga klase sang balay ang patindugon ninyo para sa akon? Diin bala ang lugar nga inyo papahuwayan sa akon?
Kamo tanan nga nagahigugma sa Jerusalem kag nagapangasubo tungod sa iya, magkalipay kamo kag magsinadya upod sa iya,
para makatilaw kamo sang iya kauswagan pareho sang bata nga nagatiti sa iya iloy kag nabusog.
Kay nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo : “Pauswagon ko ang Jerusalem; pagadal-on sa iya ang mga manggad sang mga nasyon pareho sang nagaawas nga ililigan sang tubig. Sagudon kag atipanon kamo sang Jerusalem pareho sa bata nga ginakugos, ginapatiti, kag ginasabak sang iya iloy.
Lipayon ko kamo sa Jerusalem pareho sa iloy nga nagalipay sa iya anak.”
Kon makita na ninyo ini, magakalipay gid kamo, kag magabaskog kamo pareho sa nagalambo nga tanom. Ipakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya gahom sa iya mga alagad, pero ipakita niya ang iya kaakig sa iya mga kaaway.
Pamati! Magaabot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga may kalayo. Magasakay siya sa iya mga karwahe nga daw buhawi. Ipakita niya ang iya kaakig sa iya mga kaaway, kag silutan niya sila sang nagadabadaba nga kalayo.
Kay paagi sa kalayo kag sa iya espada, silutan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga tawo nga makasasala nga makasasala , kag madamo ang iya pamatyon.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magakalamatay sing tingob ang mga nagapakabalaan kag nagapakatinlo sang ila kaugalingon sa ila pagsimba sa mga dios-dios sa katamnan. Magakalamatay gid sila nga nagakaon sang baboy, sang ilaga, kag sang iban pa nga pagkaon nga makangilil-ad.
“Nahibaluan ko ang ila mga ginahimo kag ginahunahuna. Gani magaabot ako kag tipunon ko ang mga katawhan sang tanan nga nasyon, kag makita nila ang akon gahom.
Magapakita ako sang milagro sa ila. Kag ang magkalabilin sa ila ipadala ko bilang mensahero sa mga nasyon sang Tarshish, Pul, Lud (nga ang mga katawhan sini bantog nga mga manugpana), Tubal, Greece
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling: Ginahatagan ko sang pagtalupangod ang mga tawo nga mapainubuson, mahinulsulon, kag nagakahadlok sa akon pulong.
Kag dal-on nila pabalik halin sa mga nasyon ang tanan ninyo nga mga kasimanwa, nga nagasakay sa mga kabayo, mga mula
Kag himuon ko ang iban sa ila nga mga pari kag mga Levita. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Subong nga ang bag-o nga langit kag ang bag-o nga duta nga akon himuon magapadayon hasta san-o, ang inyo mga kaliwat magapadayon man hasta san-o, kag indi gid kamo malipatan.
Sa kada umpisa sang bulan kag sa kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway magasimba ang tanan nga tawo sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Kag samtang nagapaguwa sa Jerusalem ang mga nagsilimba didto, makita nila ang mga bangkay sang mga tawo nga nagrebelde kontra sa akon. Ang mga ulod nga nagakaon sa ila indi mapatay, kag ang kalayo nga nagasunog sa ila indi man mapatay. Kag kangil-aran sila sang tanan nga tawo.”
Pero amo ini ang akon pagtratar sa mga tawo nga nagasunod sa ila lang gusto kag nagakalipay sa mga ginahimo nila nga makangilil-ad: Kon magpatay sila sang baka para ihalad, kabigon ko ini nga daw sa nagpatay sila sang tawo. Kon maghalad sila sang karnero, kabigon ko ini nga daw sa nagpatay sila sang ido. Kon maghalad sila sang halad nga regalo, kabigon ko ini nga daw sa naghalad sila sang dugo sang baboy. Kag kon magsunog sila sang insenso bilang pagdumdom sa akon, kabigon ko ini nga daw sa nagbendisyon sila sa dios-dios.
Wala labot sina, padal-an ko sila sang silot nga makapahadlok gid sa ila. Kay sang nagpanawag ako, wala sila nagsabat; sang naghambal ako, wala sila nagpamati. Naghimo sila sang kalautan sa akon atubangan, kag kon ano ang indi ko nagustuhan amo ang ila ginahimo.”
Kamo nga nagakahadlok sa mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo , pamatii ninyo ang iya pulong: “Tungod nga matutom kamo sa akon, ang iban ninyo nga mga kasimanwa nagadumot kag nagasikway sa inyo. Nagayaguta sila sa inyo nga nagasiling, ‘Magpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sang iya gahom para makita namon ang inyo kalipay!’ ” Pero pakahuy-an sila.
Nabatian bala ninyo ang ginahod sa siyudad kag sa templo? Gahod ina sang Ginoo Ginoo samtang ginabalusan niya ang iya mga kaaway.
Nagasiling pa ang Ginoo , Nagasiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ang Jerusalem mangin pareho sa isa ka manugbata nga wala pa gani siya masakiti nagbata na siya.
Sin-o bala ang nakabati kag nakakita sang pareho sini? Mahimo bala ang isa ka pungsod ukon nasyon sa malip-ot lang gid nga tiyempo? Pero sang manugsugod pa lang ang pagpasakit sang Jerusalem,
Ginbuot ko nga malapit na lang sila matawo. Kag karon, indi ko bala sila pagtugutan nga matawo? Siyempre tugutan! Indi ko gid pagpunggan nga matawo sila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, ang nagasiling sini.”
Amo ini ang mga mensahi ni Jeremias nga anak ni Hilkia. Si Hilkia isa sa mga pari sa Anatot nga ara sa duta ni Benjamin.
Ginpili ko ikaw subong nga adlaw sa paghambal nga may awtoridad sa mga nasyon kag mga ginharian. Hambalan mo sila nga ang iban sa ila malaglag gid, kag ang iban sa ila magabangon kag magatindog liwat.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Jeremias, ano bala ang nakita mo?” Nagsabat ako, “Sanga sang kahoy nga almendro.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Husto ang imo nakita, kag nagakahulugan ina nga nagabantay
Nagpamangkot liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Ano pa ang nakita mo?” Nagsabat ako, “Isa ka kolon nga nagabukal, kag daw sa maula ini halin sa north.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “ Tama, kay Tama, kay halin sa north may katalagman nga magaabot sa tanan nga nagaestar sa sini nga duta.
Pamati! Ipadala ko ang mga soldado sang mga ginharian halin sa north sa pagsalakay sa Jerusalem. Ang ila mga hari magabutang sang ila mga trono sa mga puwertahan sang Jerusalem. Salakayon nila ang mga pader sa palibot sini kag ang iban pa nga mga banwa sang Juda.
Silutan ko ang akon katawhan tungod sa ila kalautan. Ginsikway nila ako paagi sa paghalad sang insenso sa mga dios-dios. Huo, ginsimba nila ang mga dios-dios nga ila ginhimo.
“Karon, ipreparar ang imo kaugalingon. Maglakat ka kag ihambal sa ila ang tanan nga isugo ko sa imo. Indi ka magkahadlok sa ila. Kay kon mahadlok ka, pahadlukon ko pa gid ikaw sa ila atubangan.
Pamati! Pabakuron ko ikaw subong nga adlaw pareho sang isa ka napaderan nga siyudad ukon salsalon nga haligi ukon saway nga pader. Wala sing mga hari, mga opisyal, mga pari, ukon katawhan sang Juda nga makadaog kontra sa imo.
Kontrahon ka nila, pero indi ka nila madaog, tungod kay kaupod mo ako kag buligan ko ikaw. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mensahi si Jeremias sang ika-13 nga tuig sang paghari ni Josia sa Juda. Ining si Josia anak ni Amon.
Padayon nga ginhatagan sang Ginoo Ginoo sang mensahi si Jeremias hasta sang panahon sang paghari ni Jehoyakim nga anak ni Josia, hasta pa gid sang ika-11 nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia nga anak man man ni Josia. Sang ikalima nga bulan sang sini nga tuig ginbihag ang katawhan sang Jerusalem.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Sa wala ko pa ikaw maporma sa tiyan sang imo iloy ginpili
Nagsabat ako, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , indi ako maayo maghambal; bataon pa ako.”
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Indi ka maghambal nga bataon ka pa. Kinahanglan nga maglakat ka bisan diin ko ikaw ipadala, kag maghambal ka sang bisan ano nga ipahambal ko sa imo.
Indi ka magkahadlok sa mga tawo kay kaupod mo ako kag buligan ko ikaw. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Dayon gintandog sang Ginoo Ginoo ang akon baba kag nagsiling, “Ginahatag ko sa imo subong ang akon mga pulong nga imo igahambal.
“Magkadto kamo sa west, sa west, sa mga isla sang Kitim, kag magkadto man kamo sa east, sa east, sa duta sang duta sang Kedar. Usisaa ninyo kon may natabo nga pareho sini:
May nasyon bala nga nagbaylo sang iya dios, bisan pa nga indi ini matuod nga dios? Pero ang akon katawhan ginbaylo nila ako nga ila dungganon nga Dios nga Dios sa mga dios nga wala sing pulos.
Naurungan ang kalangitan sa ginhimo sang akon katawhan; daw sa nagkurog ini tungod sa puwerte nga kahangawa. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Ang akon katawhan nakahimo sang duha ka sala: Ginsikway nila ako, ang tuburan nga nagahatag sang kabuhi, kag ginsimba nila ang iban nga mga dios, nga daw pareho lang nga ginsimba nila ang iban nga mga dios, nga daw pareho lang nga nagbuho sila sang pulunduhan sang tubig nga nagakahubas.
Ang Israel wala natawo nga ulipon. Ngaa nga ginabiktima siya sang mga kaaway?
Ang iya mga kaaway daw leon nga nagangurob sa iya. Ginlaglag nila ang iya duta, kag ginsunog ang iya mga banwa, kag wala na ini ginaestaran.
Ang mga tawo sang Memfis kag Tapanhes ang naglaglag sa iya.
“Kamo mismo nga mga Israelinhon ang nagdala sang sini nga kalaglagan sa inyo. Kay ginsikway ninyo ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, sang ginpangunahan ko kamo sa dalanon.
Karon, ano ang inyo nakuha sa pagdangop ninyo sa Egypt kag sa Assyria? Ngaa nagakadto pa kamo sa Suba sang Nilo
Tungod sa inyo kalautan kag pagtalikod sa akon, silutan ko kamo. Hunahunaa ninyo sing maayo kon daw ano kalain kag kapait nga sikwayon ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag indi pagtahuron. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.
“Lakat ka kag ihambal ini sa mga taga-Jerusalem: Nadumduman ko kon daw ano ang inyo katutom kag pagpalangga sa akon sang una pareho sang isa ka bataon nga babayi nga bag-o lang ginkasal. Nagsunod kamo sa akon bisan pa sa kamingawan nga wala sing mga tanom.
“Sadto anay, sang gin-ulipon kamo, pareho pareho kamo sa baka nga sa baka nga may gota ukon sa priso nga sa priso nga may kadena, pero sang ginhilway ko na kamo, indi kamo mag-alagad sa akon. Sa baylo, nagsimba kamo sa mga dios-dios nagsimba kamo sa mga dios-dios sa tagsa ka mataas nga bukid kag sa idalom sang tagsa ka madabong nga kahoy. Pareho kamo sa babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.
Gintanom ko kamo pareho sang isa ka maayo gid nga klase sang ubas. Pero ngaa nangin isa kamo ka dunot kag wala sing pulos nga ubas?
Bisan magpaligo pa kamo kag magpanghabon sing tudo makita ko man gihapon ang higko sang inyo sala. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“Paano kamo makasiling nga wala kamo mahigkui kag wala kamo nagsimba sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal? Hunahunaa ninyo kon ano nga pagpakasala ang ginhimo ninyo sa pulopatag sang Hinom sang Hinom . Talupangda ang sala nga inyo nahimo. Pareho kamo sa isa ka babayi nga camel nga nagapahigal,
Pareho man kamo sa isa ka babayi nga donkey nga talunon nga nagaaliwasa kay gusto na gid magpakasta. Kon magpahigal siya wala sing may makapugong sa iya. Indi na mabudlayan sa pagpangita sa iya ang lalaki nga donkey sa tion sang tigkalasta.
“ Mga Israelinhon, Mga Israelinhon, nagkalaupod na ang inyo mga sandalyas, kag nagmalala na ang inyo mga tutunlan sa pagsunod sa iban nga mga dios sa pagsunod sa iban nga mga dios . Pero nagsiling kamo, ‘Indi mahimo nga talikdan namon ang iban nga mga dios. Ginahigugma namon sila kag magasunod kami sa ila.’
“Pareho sang isa ka kawatan nga mahuy-an kon siya madakpan, mahuy-an man kamo nga katawhan sang Israel. Huo, mahuy-an kamo kag ang inyo mga hari, mga opisyal, mga pari, kag mga propeta.
Nagasiling kamo nga ang kahoy inyo amay kag ang bato inyo iloy. Nagtalikod kamo sa akon, pero kon ara kamo sa kalisod nagapangayo kamo sing bulig sa akon.
Diin na ang mga dios nga inyo ginhimo para sa inyo kaugalingon? Palapita sila kon matuod nga maluwas nila kamo sa inyo kalisod. Kadamo gid sang inyo mga dios, pareho kadamo sang mga banwa sa Juda.
Ngaa magreklamo kamo sa akon? Indi bala nga kamo ang nagrebelde sa akon?
Kamo nga mga Israelinhon ginseparar para sa akon. Kaangay kamo sa nahauna nga parte sang patubas nga ginahatag sa akon. Ang mga naghalit sa inyo ginsilutan ko, kag nalaglag sila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginsilutan ko ang inyo mga anak, pero wala ini sang maayo nga nahimo sa ila. Indi sila gusto nga disiplinahon. Kamo mismo ang nagpamatay sang inyo mga propeta, pareho sang pagpatay sang pagpatay sang gutom nga leon sa iya biktima sa iya biktima .
“Kamo nga katawhan sa sini nga henerasyon, pamatii ang akon ginasiling. Pareho bala ako sang isa ka desierto sa inyo nga mga taga-Israel, ukon pareho sang isa ka lugar nga tama kadulom? Ti, ngaa nagasiling kamo, ‘Pagusto na kami sa amon himuon. Indi na kami magpalapit sa Dios.’
“Malimtan bala sang isa ka dalaga ang iya alahas, ukon ang iya bayo sa kasal? Pero kamo nga akon katawhan, ginkalimtan ninyo ako sa malawig nga tion.
Maayo gid kamo maglagas sa inyo mga ginapalangga nga mga dios-dios nga mga dios-dios . Bisan ang babayi nga eksperiensyado sa pagbaligya sang iya lawas makatuon sa inyo.
Ang inyo mga bayo may mantsa sang dugo sang inosente nga mga imol. Ginpamatay ninyo sila bisan wala sila nadakpan nga nagsulod sa inyo balay sa pagpangawat. Pero bisan ginhimo ninyo ini,
nagsiling pa kamo, ‘Wala kami sing sala. Ang Ginoo Ginoo indi akig sa amon.’ Pero pagasilutan ko gid kamo tungod nga nagsiling kamo nga wala kamo sing sala.
“Ordinaryo lang sa inyo ang pagbaylo-baylo sang mga kadampig nga nasyon. Pero pakahuy-an gid kamo sang Egypt nga inyo kadampig nga inyo kadampig pareho sang pagpakahuya sa inyo sang Assyria.
Pahalinon kamo sa sini nga duta
Kamo nga katawhan sang Israel nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob, pamatii ninyo ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ini ang iya ginasiling: “Ano bala nga sala ang nakita sang inyo mga katigulangan sa akon nga nagpalayo gid sila sa akon? Nagsunod sila sa mga dios-dios nga wala sing pulos, kag tungod sini nangin wala man sila sing pulos.
Wala na sila nagpangita sa akon bisan ako pa ang nagpaguwa sa ila sa Egypt kag nagpanguna sa ila sa kamingawan nga wala sing mga tanom—ang duta nga desierto, may mga buho, mamala, delikado, kag wala sing tawo nga nagaestar ukon nagaagi.
Gindala ko kamo sa maayo nga duta sa pagpulos sang maayo nga mga patubas sini. Pero pag-abot ninyo didto, ginhigkuan ninyo ang duta nga akon ginapanag-iyahan, kag ginhimo ninyo ini nga makangilil-ad.
Bisan ang mga pari wala nagpangita sa akon. Ang mga nagatudlo sang kasuguan wala makakilala
Gani akusaron ko kamo liwat kag ang inyo mga kaliwat sa palaabuton. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Kon bulagan sang bana ang iya asawa kag magpamana liwat ang iya asawa, indi niya siya pagbawion, kay makapahigko gid ini sa inyo inyo duta. Kamo nga mga Israelinhon nagakabuhi pareho sang babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas. Madamo ang inyo mga ginahigugma nga mga dios-dios nga mga dios-dios . Pero sa pihak sini, ginatawag ko gihapon kamo sa pagbalik sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Sa pihak sina tanan, wala nagbalik sa akon sing sinsero ang maluibon nga Juda. Nagpakuno-kuno lang siya nga nagbalik sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Bisan indi matutom ang Israel sa akon sa akon mas maayo pa sila sang sa maluibon nga Juda.
Karon, Karon, lakat ka, kag isugid ini nga mensahi sa Israel:
Akuon mo lang ang imo sala nga nagrebelde ka sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios kag nagsunod sa iban nga mga dios paagi sa pagsimba sa ila sa idalom sang tagsa ka madabong nga kahoy. Akuon mo nga Akuon mo nga wala ka magtuman sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magbalik kamo, mga anak nga indi matutom, kay akon kamo.
Dayon, hatagan ko kamo sang mga pangulo nga akon naluyagan nga magapangulo sa inyo nga may ihibalo kag may pag-intiendi.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga kon mag-abot na ang tion nga magdamo na gid kamo sa sina nga duta, indi na ninyo paghandumon pa ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Indi na ninyo ini paghunahunaon ukon pagdumdumon. Indi na ninyo ini pagkahidlawan, kag indi na kamo maghimo liwat sang sini nga kahon.
Sa sina nga tion, pagatawgon ninyo ang Jerusalem nga ‘Trono sang Ginoo Ginoo ’ kag ang tanan nga nasyon magatipon sa Jerusalem sa pagpadungog sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Indi na nila pagpasundan ang katig-a sang ila malain nga tagipusuon.
Sa sina nga mga inadlaw, ang katawhan sang Juda kag sang Israel magaupod sa pagbalik halin sa pagkabihag sa pagkabihag sa north pakadto sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa ila mga katigulangan bilang palanublion.
Ako mismo ang nagsiling, ‘Malipayon gid ako nga kabigon kamo nga akon mga anak kag hatagan sang maayo nga duta, nga amo ang pinakamatahom nga palanublion sa bilog nga kalibutan.’ Abi ko tawgon ninyo ako nga ‘Amay’ kag indi na kamo magbiya sa akon.
“Tan-awa ang mahawan nga mga bukid nga ginasimbahan ninyo nga ginasimbahan ninyo . May lugar pa bala didto nga wala ninyo mahigkuan? Ginhigkuan ninyo ang duta sa inyo kalautan. Pareho kamo sa babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, nga nagapungko sa higad sang dalan nga nagahulat sang lalaki. Pareho man kamo sang hurong
Pero, pareho sang isa ka asawa nga maluibon sa iya bana, amo man kamo sa akon, katawhan sang Israel. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Mabatian ang ginahod sa ibabaw sang mahawan nga mga bukid. Nagahilibion kag nagapakitluoy ang katawhan sang Israel. Kay malain na ang ila pagginawi kag ginkalimtan nila ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Nagsabat sila, Nagsabat sila, “Huo, magapalapit kami sa imo kay ikaw ang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Matuod gid nga ang amon pagsimba sa mga dios-dios sa mga bukid sala gid. Sa imo gid lang ang kaluwasan sang Israel, O Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Halin sang pamatan-on pa kami ang makahuluya nga mga dios-dios amo ang nagpulos sang bunga sang kinabudlayan sang amon mga katigulangan, nga amo ang ila mga kasapatan kag mga kabataan.
Dapat kami magpanago sa kahuya kay kami kag ang amon mga katigulangan nakasala kontra sa imo, O Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios. Halin sang pamatan-on pa kami hasta subong, wala kami nagsunod sa imo.”
Amo ini kon ngaa wala mag-ulan sa tion sang tig-ululan. Kay pareho na gid kamo sa isa ka babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, nga wala na gid sing huya.
Kag karon nagasiling kamo sa akon, ‘Amay ko, kaupod
Permi ka na lang bala akig sa akon sa akon ? Ang imo bala kaakig magpadayon hasta san-o?’ Amo ina ang inyo ginahambal, pero ginahimo ninyo ang tanan nga malain nga inyo mahimo.”
Sang panahon sang paghari ni Josia, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Nakita mo bala ang ginhimo sang indi matutom nga Israel? Nagsimba siya sa mga dios-dios sa tagsa ka mataas nga bukid kag sa idalom sang tagsa ka madabong nga kahoy. Pareho siya sa babayi nga nagpanginlalaki.
Abi ko pagkatapos nga nahimo niya ini tanan magabalik siya sa akon, pero wala siya magbalik. Kag nakita ini sang iya maluibon nga utod nga amo ang Juda.
Ginbulagan ko ang Israel kag ginpalakat tungod sang iya pagpanginlalaki nga amo ang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios nga amo ang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios . Pero nakita ko nga ang iya maluibon nga utod nga amo ang Juda wala mahadlok sa pihak sini. Nagpanginlalaki man siya
paagi paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios nga pagsimba sa mga dios-dios nga bato kag kahoy, gani ginhigkuan niya ang duta. Ginsunod niya ini kay wala man lang sing kaso sa iya ang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “O Israel, kuntani magbalik ka na sa akon. Kon isikway mo ang imo makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios kag indi ka na magbiya sa akon,
Dayon nagsiling ako, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , nadayaan gid ang mga tawo sa imo ginsiling sadto, kay nagpromisa ka sang kalinong sa Jerusalem. Pero ang espada gali handa na sa pagpatay sa ila.”
Magaabot ang tion nga magasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa katawhan sang Jerusalem, “Magahuyop ang mainit nga hangin halin sa mahawan nga mga bukid sa desierto pakadto sa akon katawhan. Pero indi para makapahangin sila sang ila trigo sang ila trigo .
Ining tama kabaskog nga hangin naghalin sa akon. Karon, ihambal ko na ang akon silot sa ila.”
Tan-awa! Ang aton kaaway nagapadulong nga daw sa mga panganod. Ang iya mga karwahe daw sa buhawi, kag ang iya mga kabayo madasig pa sang sa mga agila. Kaluluoy kita! Malaglag gid kita.
“Mga taga-Jerusalem, tinlui ang inyo tagipusuon sa kalautan para maluwas kamo. Hasta san-o kamo maghunahuna sang malain?
Ang inyo kalaglagan ginpahibalo sang mga mensahero halin sa Dan kag sa mga kabukiran sang Efraim.
Ginsugo sila nga paandaman ang mga nasyon kag ang Jerusalem nga may nagasalakay nga mga soldado halin sa malayo nga lugar nga nagapanghangkat sang inaway kontra sa mga banwa sang Juda.
Ginalibutan nila ang Jerusalem pareho sang mga tawo nga nagabantay sang uma, tungod kay kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem nagrebelde sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Ang inyo mismo pagginawi kag pamatasan amo ang nagdala sini sa inyo. Amo ini ang inyo silot. Daw ano ini kasakit! Daw ginbuno ang inyo tagipusuon.”
Puwerte ang akon kasakit. Indi ko ini maagwanta! Puwerte gid ang akon pag-ugayong. Ang dughan ko nagakubakuba kag indi ako mapahamtang. Kay nabatian ko ang tunog sang budyong kag ang singgit sang inaway.
kag kon magsumpa ka sa akon lang ngalan kag magkabuhi nga masaligan, husto kag matarong, mangin pagpakamaayo ka sa mga nasyon, kag padunggan ka nila.”
Nagasulunod-sunod lang ang kalaglagan. Ang bilog nga duta nagkalaguba. Bisan ang akon mga tolda naguba gilayon, kag ang mga kurtina sini nagkalagisi.
Hasta san-o ko pa bala makita ang bandera sang inaway kag mabatian ang tunog sang budyong?
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Buang-buang ang akon katawhan; wala sila makakilala sa akon. Mga balingag sila nga mga kabataan; indi sila makaintiendi. Sagad sila maghimo sang kalautan, pero indi sila makahibalo maghimo sang maayo.”
Nakita ko ang kalibutan kag wala na ini sing porma kag mahawan na. Nakita ko man Nakita ko man ang kalangitan kag wala na ini sing kasanag.
Nakita ko nga ang mga bukid nagauyog.
Nakita ko man nga wala sing mga tawo, kag ang tanan nga pispis naglulupad palayo.
Nakita ko nga ang mapatubason nga duta nangin desierto. Ang tanan nga banwa nalaglag tungod sa puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Ang bilog nga duta magakalaguba, pero indi ko ini paglaglagon sing bug-os.
Ang kalibutan magapangasubo kag ang kalangitan magadulom, kay nahambal ko na ang silot, ang silot, kag indi ko na ini pagbawion pa. Nakadesisyon na ako kag indi na magbaylo ang akon hunahuna.”
Sa gahod sang mga mga manugkabayo kag mga mga manugpana, nagpalalagyo sa kahadlok sa kahadlok ang mga pumuluyo sang mga pumuluyo sang tagsa ka banwa. Ang iban nagpalalagyo sa kakahuyan, kag ang iban nagsaka sa mga kabatuhan. Ginbayaan ang tanan nga banwa kag wala na sing may nagaestar sa sini.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem: “ Bag-uha ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon, pareho bala nga daw Bag-uha ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon, pareho bala nga daw mag-arado kamo sang inyo duta nga wala pa maarado. Kag indi pag-isabwag ang inyo maayo nga binhi sa tunukon nga mga hilamon.
Ano ang ginahimo mo, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, nga malapit na nga laglagon? Ngaa nagasuksok ka pa sang matahom nga bayo kag sang alahas? Ngaa nagapamutang ka pa sang kolorete sa imo mga mata? Ang imo pagpatahom wala na sing pulos. Ang imo mga hinigugma nga mga nasyon nga imo kadampig nga mga nasyon nga imo kadampig nagsikway na sa imo kag gusto ka nila nga patyon.
Nabatian ko ang hibi kag ugayong, pareho sang isa ka babayi nga nagabata sang iya kamagulangan nga anak. Ini hibi sang mga pumuluyo sang Zion
Bag-uha ninyo ang inyo tagipusuon sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo , kamo nga katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem, kay kon indi, maagom ninyo ang akon kaakig pareho sang kalayo nga indi mapatay tungod sa kalautan nga inyo ginpanghimo.
“Silinga ang Juda kag Jerusalem nga patunugon nila ang budyong sa bilog nga duta! Isinggit sing mabaskog nga magpalagyo sila kag mapanago sa napaderan nga mga banwa.
Magpahibalo ka sa mga taga-Jerusalem
Nagguwa na sa pagsalakay ang manuglaglag sang mga nasyon pareho sang isa ka leon nga nagguwa sa iya palanaguan. Nakahalin na siya sa iya lugar sa paglaglag sang inyo duta. Ang inyo mga banwa magakalaguba hasta nga indi na ini maestaran.
Gani magsuksok kamo sang sako sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo . Maghilibion kamo kay ara pa gihapon ang puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sa sina nga adlaw, ang hari kag ang iya iya mga opisyal madulaan sang kaisog, ang mga pari maurungan, kag ang mga propeta matingala gid.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem, kadto kamo sa inyo mga dalan! Tan-awa ang mga plasa! Kon may makita kamo bisan isa lang ka tawo nga matarong kag masaligan, patawaron ko ang inyo siyudad.
“ Kamo nga mga kaaway sang mga Israelinhon, Kamo nga mga kaaway sang mga Israelinhon, laglaga ninyo ang ila mga talamnan sang ubas, pero indi lang pag-ubusa. Pangtapsa ninyo ang mga sanga sini, kay ang ini nga katawhan indi na akon.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga ang mga katawhan sang Israel kag sang Juda indi na gid matutom sa akon.
Wala sila naghambal sing matuod parte sa akon. Siling nila, ‘Indi kita pag-anhon sang Ginoo Ginoo ! Wala sing katalagman nga magaabot sa aton. Indi kita makaeksperiensya sang inaway ukon gutom.
Wala sing pulos ang mga ginahambal sang mga ginahambal sang mga propeta kay ang ila mga mensahi wala naghalin sa Dios. Kabay pa nga matabo sa ila ang mga kalaglagan nga mga kalaglagan nga ila ginpropesiya.’ ”
Gani amo ini ang ginsiling sa akon sa akon sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom: “Tungod kay amo ini ang ginhambal sang sini nga mga tawo, hatagan ko ikaw sang mensahi nga pareho sang kalayo nga magasunog sa ila. Mangin pareho sila sa kahoy nga nasunog.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Mga katawhan sang Israel, magapadala ako sang mga tawo halin sa malayo nga nasyon sa pagsalakay sa inyo. Ini isa ka madugay na gid nga nasyon, nga ang ila lingguahe indi ninyo maintiendihan.
Ang ila mga armas makamamatay, kag sila tanan mga mangangaway.
Ubuson nila ang inyo mga patubas, mga pagkaon, pati ang inyo mga ubas kag mga higera. Pamatyon nila ang inyo mga kasapatan kag mga kabataan. Gub-on nila ang inyo napaderan nga mga banwa, nga ginasaligan ninyo nga makadepensa sa inyo nga makadepensa sa inyo .
Pero bisan sa sina nga mga inadlaw, indi ko kamo paglaglagon sing bug-os. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Kon mamangkot ang mga tawo, ‘Ngaa ginhimo ini tanan sa aton sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios?’ Silinga sila, ‘Kay ginsikway ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo kag nag-alagad kamo sa iban nga mga dios sa inyo mismo duta. Gani karon magaalagad kamo sa mga taga-iban nga lugar sa duta nga indi inyo.’
Bisan nagasumpa kamo sa akon ngalan, nagabutig gihapon kamo.”
“Ipahibalo ini sa mga katawhan sang Israel
Pamatii ninyo ini, kamo nga mga buang-buang kag balingag nga mga katawhan. May mga mata kamo pero indi makakita, may mga dulunggan pero indi makabati.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling: Wala bala kamo sang kahadlok sa akon? Ti ngaa wala kamo nagakurog sa akon atubangan? Ginhimo ko ang baybayon nga border sang dagat. Ini permanente nga border nga indi malapawan. Mahampak ini sang mga balod pero indi nila ini malapawan.
Pero ini nga mga katawhan matig-a sing ulo kag mga rebelde. Nagtalikod sila kag nagpalayo sa akon.
Wala gid sila nagahambal halin sa ila tagipusuon nga, ‘Tahuron ta ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios nga nagahatag sang ulan sa husto nga tion kag nagahatag sa aton sang patubas sa tion sang tig-alani.’
Ang inyo mga kalautan amo ang nagpalayo sang sini nga mga butang sa inyo. Ang inyo mga sala amo ang kabangdanan nga indi ninyo mabaton ini nga mga pagpakamaayo.
“May malain nga mga tawo sa akon katawhan nga nagahulat sang ila mabiktima pareho sang tawo nga nagapaniod sang pispis. Nagabutang sila sang mga siod para sa iban nga mga tawo.
Pareho sang hawla nga puno sang mga pispis, ang balay sining malain nga mga tawo puno man sang manggad halin sa ila pagpanunto. Gani nagmanggaranon sila kag nangin gamhanan.
Nagtalambok sila kag nagbalakod ang ila mga lawas. Wala sing pugong-pugong ang ila paghimo sang mga kalautan. Wala nila ginahatagan sang hustisya ang mga ilo, kag wala nila ginapangapinan ang kinamatarong sang mga imol.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling: Indi bala nga dapat lang nga silutan ko sila tungod sini? Indi bala nga dapat lang nga balusan ko ang nasyon nga pareho sini?
O Ginoo Ginoo , indi bala nga nagapangita ka sang tawo nga masaligan? Ginsakit mo ang imo katawhan pero wala sila masakitan. Ginsilutan mo sila, pero indi sila gusto disiplinahon. Nagkabalan na ang ila mga guya, kag indi na sila magbiya sa ila mga sala.
Makahaladlok kag makakulugmat nga butang ang natabo sa sini nga duta:
Ang mga propeta nagpanagna sing butig. Ang mga pari nagadumala sa ila lang kaugalingon nga awtoridad. Kag gusto ini sang akon katawhan. Pero ano ang ila himuon kon mag-abot na ang katapusan?
Nakasiling ako sadto, “Abi ko mga imol lang ini sila nga wala makatuon, gali mga buang-buang sila. Kay wala sila makahibalo sang mga pamaagi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios nga ginapatuman sa ila.
Gani makadto ako sa ila mga pangulo kag magpakighambal sa ila. Sigurado nga nakahibalo sila sang mga pamaagi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios nga ginapatuman sa ila.” Pero bisan sila nagsikway man sa mga ginapatuman sang Dios.
Gani salakayon sila sang ila mga kaaway nga pareho sang leon nga halin sa kagulangan ukon pareho sang wolf nga halin sa kamingawan, ukon pareho sang leopard nga nagabantay malapit sa ila mga banwa sa paggus-ab sa kay bisan sin-o nga magguwa. Matabo ini sa ila Matabo ini sa ila kay puwerte na ang ila pagrebelde sa Dios kag madamo na nga beses nga nagtalikod sila sa iya.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ngaa patawaron ko kamo? Kay bisan ang inyo mga kabataan nagsikway sa akon kag nagsumpa sa ngalan sang indi matuod nga mga dios. Ginhatag ko ang ila mga kinahanglanon pero nahimo pa nila ang pagpanginbabayi kag ang pagdinas-ok sa mga balay sang mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas.
Pareho sila sa mga mapagros nga kabayo nga lalaki, nga ginsagod sing maayo. Kada isa sa ila nagahandom sa asawa sang iban.
Indi bala nga dapat lang nga silutan ko sila tungod sini? Indi bala nga dapat lang nga balusan ko ang nasyon nga pareho sini? Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Mga kaliwat ni Benjamin, magpalagyo kamo kag magpanago! Maghalin kamo sa Jerusalem! Patunuga ang budyong sa Tekoa kag maghatag sang senyales sa Bet Hakerem. Kay magaabot ang puwerte nga kalaglagan halin sa north.
Pero sin-o bala, Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , ang akon paandaman? Sin-o ang mamati sa akon? Gintakpan nila ang ila mga dulunggan para indi sila makabati. Ginakangil-aran nila ang pulong sang Ginoo Ginoo , gani indi sila luyag magpamati.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ipaagom ang akon kaakig bisan sa mga kabataan nga nagahampang sa dalan, sa mga pamatan-on nga lalaki nga nagatilipon, sa mga bana kag mga asawa, kag pati sa mga tigulang na gid.
Ang ila mga balay igahatag sa iban, pati ang ila mga uma kag mga asawa. Matabo ini kon silutan ko na ang mga katawhan nga nagaestar sa sini nga duta. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Halin sa pinakakubos hasta sa pinakadungganon, nagapangdaya sila para makakuwarta. Bisan mga mga propeta kag mga mga pari nagapangdaya man.
Wala nila ginabulong sing seryuso ang pilas sang akon katawhan, bisan grabe na ini. Nagasiling sila nga maayo ang tanan bisan pa nga indi maayo.
Nahuya bala sila sa ila makangilil-ad nga batasan? Wala! Kay wala na sila sing huya! Wala na gani sila nagapanghilaw-hilaw. Gani malaglag sila pareho sa iban. Madugmok sila sa tion nga silutan ko sila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Magtindog kamo sa ginsang-an sang mga dalan kag mag-usisa sing maayo. Magpamangkot kamo kon diin ang daan kag maayo nga alagyan, kag didto kamo mag-agi. Kag makaangkon kamo sang kalinong. Pero nagsiling kamo, ‘Indi kami mag-agi dira.’
Nagpili ako sang mga manugbantay sa pagsiling sa inyo, ‘Pamatii ninyo ang pagtunog sang budyong bilang paandam bilang paandam .’ Pero nagsiling kamo, ‘Indi kami mamati.’
“Gani magpamati kamo nga mga nasyon. Panilagi ninyo ang akon katawhan kon ano ang matabo sa ila.
Pamati, O kalibutan! Magapadala ako sang kalaglagan sa sini nga mga tawo bilang silot sa ila malain nga malain nga mga plano. Kay wala sila nagpamati sa akon mga pulong kag ginsikway nila ang akon kasuguan.
Gub-on ko ang matahom nga siyudad sang Zion.
Baliwala sa akon ang ginahalad nila nga insenso nga halin pa sa Sheba, ukon ang mga pahamot nga naghalin pa sa malayo nga lugar. Indi ko pagbatunon ang ila mga halad nga ginasunog. Ang ila mga halad wala makapalipay sa akon.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga magabutang ako sang makapalaglag sa sini nga mga tawo. Tungod sini, malaglag ang mga amay kag mga bata nga lalaki, pati mga mag-abyan kag magkaingod.”
Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Tan-awa, may mga soldado nga nagapadulong halin sa duta sa north, isa ka gamhanan nga nasyon halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan nga handa sa pagsalakay.
Armado sila sang mga pana kag mga bangkaw. Mga mapintas sila kag wala sing kaluoy. Ang ila gahod pareho sang mabaskog nga balod samtang nagasakay sila sa ila mga kabayo. Magaabot sila nga handa sa pagsalakay sa inyo nga mga pumuluyo sang Zion.”
Nakabati kami sang balita parte sa sina nga mga soldado kag nagpalamuypoy ang amon mga kamot. Kahadlok kag kasakit ang amon nabatyagan pareho sang pagpasakit sang babayi nga manugbata.
Indi kamo magkadto sa mga mga uma ukon maglakat sa mga mga dalan, kay may mga mga kaaway nga handa sa pagpatay sa aton. Makahaladlok bisan diin sa palibot ta.
Mga kasimanwa, magsuksok kamo sang sako kag magligid sa abo sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo . Magpangasubo kamo sing tudo nga daw sa napatay ang inyo bugtong nga anak nga lalaki. Kay gulpi lang nga magsalakay ang manuglaglag sa aton.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Ginhimo ko ikaw nga daw manugtesting sang metal para matestingan mo ang pagginawi sang akon katawhan.
Tanan sila mga rebelde kag mga matig-a sing ulo, pareho katig-a sang saway kag salsalon. Ang ila ginahimo amo ang pagpakalain kag pagpanunto sa iban.
Ginapainit sing tudo ang hurnohan para mapapuraw ang pilak. Pero wala sing pulos ang pagpapuraw sa akon katawhan, kay ang mga malain wala gihapon makuha.
Palibutan ini sang mga kumander kag sang ila mga soldado.
Pagatawgon sila nga ‘Ginsikway nga Pilak’ kay ginsikway ko sila.”
Magasiling ang mga kumander, Magasiling ang mga kumander, ‘Magpreparar kamo sa pagsalakay sa Jerusalem. Salakayon ta sila sa udto.’ Pero sang hapon na, magasiling ang mga kumander Pero sang hapon na, magasiling ang mga kumander , ‘Sayang, nagahinunod na ang adlaw kag nagadulom na.
Gani magsalakay na lang kita sa gab-i kag gub-on ta ang mabakod nga mga parte sang sini nga siyudad.’ ”
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom: “Mag-utod kamo sang mga kahoy nga pangwasak sa mga pader sang Jerusalem, nga pangwasak sa mga pader sang Jerusalem, kag magtumpok kamo sang duta sa kilid sang pader para mataklas ninyo ini. Dapat silutan na ini nga siyudad, kay lapnag na sa sini nga lugar ang pagpamigos.
Pareho sang isa ka tuburan nga padayon ang pag-ilig sang tubig, padayon man ang iya paghimo sang kalautan. Permi mabatian sa sini nga siyudad ang pagpamintas kag pagpanglaglag. Ang iya balatian kag mga pilas amo permi ang akon makita.
Paandam ini sa imo, Jerusalem, kag kon indi ka pa magpamati, magatalikod gid ako sa imo; kag himuon ko ang imo duta nga mamingaw, nga wala na sing may mag-estar dira.”
Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom: “Ang mabilin nga buhi sa Israel ipasipot ko sa mga kaaway sa mga kaaway , pareho sang pagsipot sang manugharvest sang ubas. Ginatan-aw niya liwat ang mga sanga sini kag ginakuha ang nabilin nga mga bunga.”
Amo pa gid ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias:
Kag dayon, nagapalapit kamo kag nagatindog sa akon presensya sa sini nga templo nga akon ginpili nga lugar para padunggan ako, kag nagasiling kamo, “Wala kita maano.” Kag pagkatapos, padayon ninyo nga ginahimo atong makangilil-ad nga mga butang.
Nagahunahuna bala kamo nga ining templo nga akon ginpili nga lugar para padunggan ako palanaguan sang mga tulisan? Nakita ko ang mga ginahimo dira. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“ ‘Kadto kamo sa Shilo nga amo ang una nga lugar nga akon ginpili para padunggan ako, kag tan-awa ninyo kon ano ang akon ginhimo sa sadto nga lugar tungod sa kalautan sang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Samtang ginahimo ninyo ining malain nga malain nga mga butang, ginsulit-sulit ko ang pagpaandam sa inyo, pero wala kamo magpamati. Nagpanawag ako sa inyo, pero wala kamo magsabat.
Gani kon ano ang akon ginhimo sa Shilo amo man ang akon himuon subong sa templo nga akon ginpili nga lugar para padunggan ako, ang templo nga inyo ginasaligan, nga ginhatag ko sa inyo kag sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Pahalinon ko kamo sa inyo lugar palayo sa inyo lugar palayo sa akon presensya pareho sa ginhimo ko sa inyo mga paryente, ang katawhan sang Israel.
“Gani ikaw, Jeremias, Jeremias, indi ka magpangamuyo para sa sini nga mga tawo. Indi ka gid magpakitluoy ukon magpangabay sa akon para sa ila, kay indi ko ikaw pagpamatian.
Wala mo bala nakita kon ano ang ila ginahimo sa mga banwa sang Juda kag sa mga dalan sang Jerusalem?
Ang mga kabataan nagapangahoy, ang mga amay nagadabok sang kalayo, kag ang mga babayi nagamasa sang harina, para maghimo sang tinapay para sa Rayna sang Langit.
Pero ako bala ang ila ginahalitan? Indi! Ang ila kaugalingon ang ila ginahalitan kag ginapakahuy-an.
“Magtindog ka sa puwertahan sang akon templo kag ihambal ini nga mensahi: ‘Kamo nga katawhan sang Juda nga nagasulod diri sa pagsimba sa Ginoo Ginoo , magpamati kamo.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Ipaagom ko ang akon puwerte nga kaakig sa sini nga lugar—sa mga tawo kag mga kasapatan, sa mga kahoy kag sa mga patubas. Ang akon kaakig pareho sang kalayo nga indi mapatay.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, “Kuhaa na lang ninyo ang inyo mga halad nga ginasunog kag ang iban pa ninyo nga mga halad. Kamo na lang ang magkaon sang karne sina!
Sang ginpaguwa ko ang inyo mga katigulangan sa Egypt wala lang ako nagsugo sa ila nga maghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang iban pa nga mga halad,
kundi nagsugo man ako sini sa ila: ‘Tumana ninyo ako, kag mangin Dios ako ninyo kag mangin katawhan ko kamo. Magkabuhi kamo sa mga pamaagi nga ginsugo ko sa inyo para mangin maayo ang inyo kahimtangan.’
“Pero wala sila magtuman ukon magsapak sa akon ginsiling. Sa baylo, ginsunod nila ang dikta sang ila matig-a kag malain nga tagipusuon. Imbes nga magpalapit sila sa akon, nagtalikod pa gani sila.
Halin sang pagguwa sang inyo mga katigulangan sa Egypt hasta subong padayon ako nga nagapadala sa inyo sang akon mga alagad nga mga propeta.
Pero wala kamo magpamati ukon magsapak sa ila. Mas matig-a pa ang inyo mga ulo kag mas malain pa gid ang inyo ginhimo sang sa inyo mga katigulangan.
“ Jeremias, Jeremias, kon ihambal mo ini tanan sa ila, indi sila mamati sa imo. Kon tawgon mo sila nga magpalapit sa akon, nga magpalapit sa akon, indi sila magsabat.
Gani isiling ini sa ila: Amo ini ang nasyon nga ang iya katawhan indi magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, kag indi magpadisiplina. Wala na sa ila ang kamatuoran; indi na sila maghambal sing matuod.
Mga taga-Jerusalem, Mga taga-Jerusalem, magpakiskis kamo sang inyo ulo kag ihaboy dayon ang inyo buhok sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo . Magpanalambiton kamo didto sa mahawan nga mga bukid, kay ginsikway kag ginpabay-an sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo henerasyon nga nagpaakig sa iya.”
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: Bag-uha na ninyo ang inyo pagginawi kag pamatasan, para padayon ko kamo nga paestaron sa sini nga lugar.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Naghimo sang kalautan ang katawhan sang Juda. Didto nila ginbutang ang ila makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios sa templo nga akon ginpili nga lugar para padunggan ako, kag tungod sini nadagtaan ini.
Nagpatindog man sila sang simbahan sa Tofet, sa Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom, para didto nila sunugon ang ila mga anak bilang mga halad. Wala gid ako magsugo sini sa ila; wala gani ini magsulod sa akon hunahuna.
Gani mag-andam kamo, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga magaabot ang tion nga ang mga tawo indi na magtawag sa sini nga lugar nga Tofet ukon Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom kundi Pulopatag nga Palatyan. Kay didto ipanglubong ang madamo gid nga madamo gid nga mga patay hasta wala na sing lugar nga malubngan.
Ang mga bangkay sang sini nga katawhan pagakaunon sang mga pispis kag talunon nga mga sapat, kag wala sing may magtabog sa ila.
Pauntaton ko na ang pagkinalipay kag pagsinadya sa mga dalan sang Jerusalem. Ang malipayon nga tingog sang bag-ong kasal indi na mabatian sa mga banwa sang Juda. Kay ini nga duta mangin mamingaw.”
Indi kamo magpadaya sa mga tawo nga nagasulit-sulit hambal nga indi kamo kuno maano tungod ari sa aton ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
“ ‘Bag-uha na gid ninyo ang inyo pagginawi kag pamatasan. Tratara ninyo sing husto ang isa kag isa,
kag indi na ninyo pagdaog-daugon ang mga ilo, mga balo nga babayi, kag ang mga pangayaw. Indi ninyo pagsentensyahan nga patyon ang mga inosente, kag indi ninyo pagsimbahon ang iban nga mga dios nga makahalit lang sa inyo.
Kon tumanon ninyo ini, Kon tumanon ninyo ini, padayon ko kamo nga paestaron sa sini nga lugar, sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa inyo mga katigulangan hasta san-o.
“ ‘Pero tan-awa, nagasalig kamo sa butig nga mga pulong nga wala sing pulos.
Nagapangawat kamo, nagapamatay, nagapanginbabayi ukon nagapanginlalaki, nagasaksi sing butig, nagasunog sang insenso kay Baal, kag nagasimba sa iban pa nga mga dios nga wala gani ninyo makilal-i.
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sa sina nga tion, panguhaon sa mga lulubngan ang mga tul-an sang mga hari kag sang mga opisyal sang Juda, pati ang mga tul-an sang mga pari, sang mga propeta, kag sang katawhan sang Jerusalem.
Gani ihatag ko sa iban nga mga tawo ang ila mga asawa kag mga uma. Tungod kay halin sa pinakakubos hasta sa pinakadungganon, nagapangdaya sila para makakuwarta. Bisan mga propeta kag mga pari nagapangdaya man.
Wala nila ginabulong sing seryuso ang pilas sang akon katawhan, bisan grabe na ini bisan grabe na ini . Nagasiling sila nga maayo ang tanan bisan pa nga indi maayo.
Nahuya bala sila sa ila makangilil-ad nga batasan? Wala! Kay wala na sila sing huya! Wala na gani sila nagapanghilaw-hilaw. Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga malaglag sila pareho sa iban. Paubuson sila sa tion nga silutan sila.
Kuhaon ko ang ila mga patubas
“ Dayon magasiling sila, Dayon magasiling sila, ‘Ti, ano pa ang aton ginahulat? Dali malagyo kita sa napaderan nga mga banwa, kag didto kita magpakamatay. Kay ginsentensyahan na kita nga patyon sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios. Daw pareho lang nga Daw pareho lang nga ginhatagan niya kita sang tubig nga may hilo para imnon ta, tungod kay nakasala kita sa iya.
Naghandom kita sang kalinong, pero wala sing kalinong nga nag-abot. Naghandom kita sang kaayuhan, pero kahadlok ang nag-abot.
Ang pusnga sang mga kabayo sang mga kaaway mabatian halin sa Dan. Sa hirihiri lang sang ila mga kabayo nagakurog na sa kahadlok ang bilog nga duta. Nag-abot sila sa paglaglag sang sini nga sini nga duta kag sa tanan nga ara dira—ang mga banwa kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini.’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pamati! Ipadala ko ining mga kaaway sa inyo nga daw sa dalitan nga mga man-og nga wala sing may makaanta, kag kadton nila kamo.”
Nagsiling si Jeremias: Nagsiling si Jeremias: Indi gid makuha ang akon kasubo. Nagasakit gid ang akon balatyagon.
Pamatii ang paghinibi sang akon kasimanwa; mabatian ini sa bilog nga duta. Nagasiling sila, Nagasiling sila, “Wala na bala ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Jerusalem?
Dayon laptahon ini sa duta, sa atubang sang adlaw, bulan, kag sang iban pa nga mga butang sa kalangitan nga ila ginhigugma, gin-alagad, ginsunod, ginpamangkutan, kag ginsimba. Indi na pagtipunon liwat ang ila mga tul-an kag ilubong, kundi laptahon na lang sa duta nga daw mga ipot.
Nagreklamo ang mga tawo, Nagreklamo ang mga tawo, “Tapos na ang tig-alani kag ang tig-ilinit, pero wala gihapon kami maluwas.”
Nagasakit ang akon balatyagon tungod sa mga kasakit sang akon mga kasimanwa. Nagapangasubo ako kag naurungan gid.
Wala bala sing bulong sa Gilead? Wala bala sing manugbulong didto? Ngaa bala wala mag-ayo ang pilas sang akon mga kasimanwa?
Ang nabilin nga buhi sa sining malain nga nasyon laptahon ko sa iban nga mga nasyon, kag didto gustuhon pa nila nga mapatay sang sa mabuhi. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon nga ihambal ko ining iya mensahi sa mga tawo: “Kon matumba ang tawo, indi bala nga nagabangon siya? Kon magtalang siya, indi bala nga nagabalik siya?
Ti, ngaa kamo nga taga-Jerusalem padayon na lang nga nagtalikod sa akon? Ngaa nga indi ninyo mabayaan ang mga dios-dios nga mga dios-dios nga nagadaya sa inyo kag magbalik sa akon?
Ginpamatian ko sing maayo ang inyo mga ginhambal ang inyo mga ginhambal kag wala kamo naghambal sing husto. Wala sing bisan isa sa inyo nga nagbiya sa iya kalautan. Wala sing may nagsiling, ‘Ano ining akon ginhimo?’ Sa baylo, ang kada isa sa inyo madasig nga nagapakasala, pareho sang kabayo nga nagapakadto sa inaway.
Ang tulabong, ang pating, ang salimbabatang, kag ang dugwak nakahibalo kon san-o maglupad pakadto sa iban nga mga lugar kag kon san-o sila magbalik, pero kamo ya nga akon katawhan wala kahibalo kon ano ang akon mga pagsulundan.
“Paano bala kamo makasiling, ‘Maalamon kami tungod kay nahibaluan namon ang kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo ,’ kon ang matuod, ginliwat ini sang inyo mga manunudlo?
Mahuy-an gid ang mga nagakabig sang ila kaugalingon nga nagakabig sang ila kaugalingon nga maalamon. Mahadlok gid sila kay bihagon sila, tungod nga ginsikway nila ang akon mga pulong. Ti, maalamon gid bala sila?
Kuntani ang akon mga mata tuburan sang mga luha para makahibi ako adlaw-gab-i tungod sa akon mga kasimanwa nga ginpamatay.
Nagsiling si Jeremias: Nagsiling si Jeremias: Magahibi ako sing tudo para sa mga bukid; magapanalambiton ako para sa mga palahalban.
Kay nagsiling ang Ginoo , Kay nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Laglagon ko ang Jerusalem, kag mangin puluy-an na lang ini sang talunon nga mga ido.
Nagpamangkot ako sa Ginoo , Nagpamangkot ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Sin-o bala nga maalamon nga tawo ang makaintiendi sini nga mga hitabo nga mga hitabo ? Sin-o bala ang ginsugiran mo parte sini nga makapaathag sini? Ngaa nalaglag ang ini nga ini nga duta kag nangin pareho sang kamingawan nga wala na ginaagyan?”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Natabo ini tungod kay wala nila pagtumana ang akon kasuguan nga akon ginhatag sa ila. Wala sila magtuman sa akon ukon magsunod sa akon kasuguan.
Sa baylo, ginsunod nila ang katig-a sang ila tagipusuon. Nagsimba sila sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal pareho sang gintudlo sang ila mga katigulangan sa ila.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling nga pakan-on ko ini nga mga tawo sang mapait nga pagkaon kag paimnon sang tubig nga may hilo.
Laptahon ko sila sa iban nga mga nasyon nga wala nila makilal-i ukon sang ila mga katigulangan. Ipasalakay ko sila sa ila mga kaaway hasta nga magkalaubos sila pamatay.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Hunahunaa ninyo kon ano ang nagakatabo! Tawga ninyo ang mga babayi nga manughibi, labi na gid atong maayo gid maghibi.
Padalia gid sila sa pagkadto sa paghibi para sa akon katawhan hasta nga magtululo gid ang ila mga luha.
Pamatii ang mga paghinibi sa Jerusalem.
Kuntani may dalayunan ako didto sa kamingawan para makapalayo ako sa akon mga kasimanwa, kay tanan sila mga maluibon sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang mga babayi nga nagapanginlalaki.
Karon, kamo nga mga babayi, pamatii ninyo ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pamatii gid ninyo ini sing maayo. Tudlui ninyo ang inyo mga anak nga babayi kag ang inyo isigkatawo sa pagpanalambiton kag sa pagkanta sang mga ambahanon sa patay.
Nag-abot ang kamatayon sa aton panimalay kag sa mabakod nga mga parte sang aton siyudad. Ginpamatay ang mga kabataan nga nagahampang nga nagahampang sa mga dalan kag ang mga pamatan-on nga lalaki nga nagatilipon nga nagatilipon sa mga plasa.
Kag nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magalalapta ang mga bangkay pareho sang mga ipot sa palahalban, ukon pareho sang mga uhay nga nabilin sang mga manug-ani, nga wala na sing may magpanguha sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi dapat magpabugal ang maalamon sang iya kaalam, ukon ang makusog sang iya kusog, ukon ang manggaranon sang iya manggad.
Kon gusto niya magpabugal, dapat ipabugal lamang lamang niya nga naintiendihan kag nakilal-an niya ako, nga ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga mahigugmaon, nga nagahimo sang husto kag matarong diri sa kalibutan, kay amo ini ang akon kalipay. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magaabot ang tion nga silutan ko ang tanan nga natuli nga ang ila kabuhi wala nagbag-o—
ang mga katawhan sang Egypt, Juda, Edom, Ammon, Moab, kag ang tanan nga nagaestar sa kamingawan sa malayo nga mga lugar.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Handa sila permi nga magbutig pareho sang pana nga handa nga ipana. Kabutigan ang nagapangibabaw sa sini nga sini nga duta kag indi kamatuoran. Nagalala na gid ang ila pagpakasala, kag wala nila ako ginakilala.
“Mag-andam kamo sa inyo mga kapareho, kag indi magsalig bisan sa inyo paryente, kay ang kada isa dayaon kag nagabutang-butang sang estorya.
Ang kada isa nagadaya sa iya kapareho, kag wala sing isa nga nagasugid sang matuod. Naanad na ang ila mga dila nga magbinutig, kag ginapakapuyan nila ang ila kaugalingon sa pagpakasala.
Puro na lang pangdaya ang ila ginahimo, kag sa ila pagkadayaon wala na sila nagakilala sa akon.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling nga purawon ko ang akon katawhan pareho sang metal, kag testingan ko sila. Ano pa ang mahimo ko sa ila?
Kay ang ila dila pareho sang makamamatay nga pana, nga puro lang pangdaya ang ila ginahambal. Nagahambal sila sing maayo sa ila kapareho, pero sa sulod sang ila tagipusuon nagaplano sila sa paghalit sa ila.
Ti, indi ko bala sila pagsilutan tungod sini? Indi ko bala pagbalusan ang nasyon nga pareho sini? Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Kamo nga katawhan sang Israel, pamatii ninyo ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang matuod nga Dios. Siya ang buhi nga Dios kag wala sing katapusan nga Hari. Kon mangakig siya, nagatay-og ang kalibutan kag wala sing nasyon nga makaagwanta sang iya kaakig.
Isiling ini sa mga nagasimba sa iban nga mga dios: “Ang inyo mga dios nga wala nagtuga sang kalibutan kag kalangitan madula sa kalibutan.”
Pero ang Dios amo ang naghimo sang kalangitan kag kalibutan paagi sa iya gahom kag kaalam.
Sa iya pagmando nagahagunos ang tubig sa langit. Siya ang nagapaguwa sang mga panganod halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan. Ginapakilat niya samtang nagaulan, kag nagapadala siya sang hangin halin sa talaguan sini.
Ang tanan nga tawo nga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios mga balingag kag wala sing kaalam. Mahuy-an lang ang mga platero sang ila mga dios-dios, kay indi ini matuod. Wala ini sing kabuhi.
Wala ini sing pulos kag talamayon. Magaabot ang tion nga malaglag sila tanan.
Pero ang Dios ni Jacob
Mga katawhan sang Jerusalem, Mga katawhan sang Jerusalem, himusa ninyo ang inyo mga gamit kag maghalin, kay malapit na nga kibunon ang inyo siyudad.
Kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Pamati! Pahalinon ko kamo sa sini nga duta. Paantuson ko kamo para makita ninyo ang akon kaakig ang akon kaakig .”
Kaluluoy kita tungod sa sining aton kalaglagan. Indi na ini maumpawan. Pero kinahanglan nga batason ta ini.
Nagasiling siya, “Indi ninyo pagsunda ang pagginawi sang iban nga mga nasyon. Ini sila nahadlok sa mga palatandaan sa langit. Pero kamo ya indi magkahadlok sa sini nga mga palatandaan.
Guba na ang aton mga tolda; nagkalabugto na ang tanan nga higot sini. Wala na ang aton mga anak; wala na sing may nabilin nga magpatindog liwat sang aton mga tolda nga aton ginaestaran.
Natabo ini sa aton Natabo ini sa aton kay mga balingag ang aton mga pangulo; wala sila nagadangop sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gani wala sila nagauswag, kag ang tanan nila nga tinawo naglalapta.
Pamatii ninyo ang puwerte nga ginahod sang mga soldado halin sa north! Pagalaglagon nila ang mga banwa sang Juda, kag mangin puluy-an na lang ini sang talunon nga mga ido.
O Ginoo Ginoo , nahibaluan ko nga ang kabuhi sang tawo indi iya. Indi siya makabuot sang iya palaabuton.
Ipaagom ang imo kaakig sa mga nasyon nga wala nagakilala sa imo, sa mga tawo nga wala nagadangop sa imo. Kay ginlaglag gid nila ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob kag ginpangguba ang ila mga puluy-an.
Wala gid sing pulos ang kinabatasan sang sina nga mga tawo. Nagatapas sila sang kahoy sa kagulangan kag ginapakortihan nila ini sa panday.
Ginadekorasyunan dayon ini sang pilak kag bulawan, kag ginalansangan sing maayo para indi matumba.
Ini nga mga dios-dios pareho sang tawo-tawo sa tunga sang talamnan sang pipino nga indi makahambal. Kinahanglan pa ini nga hakwaton kay indi ini makalakat. Indi kamo magkahadlok sa sini nga mga dios-dios kay indi ini makahalit. Indi man ini makahimo sing maayo.”
O Ginoo Ginoo , wala gid sing pareho sa imo. Gamhanan ka kag halangdon ang imo ngalan.
Sin-o ang indi magtahod sa imo, O Hari sang mga nasyon? Kay takos ka gid nga tahuron. Wala gid sing pareho sa imo sa tanan nga maalamon sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, ukon sa tanan nila nga mga hari.
Mga balingag sila tanan kag buang-buang. Ang mga pagpanudlo parte sa ila mga dios-dios nga kahoy wala sing pulos.
Nagpahimo sila sa mga panday kag platero sang mga dios-dios nga ginhaklapan sang pilak nga halin sa Tarshish kag sang bulawan nga halin sa Ufaz. Dayon ginpabayuan nila ini sang asol kag granate
Nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
Ginsunod nila ang mga sala sang ila mga katigulangan nga indi gid magpamati sa akon mga pulong. Nagsimba sila sa mga dios-dios. Pareho nga ginlapas sang katawhan sang Israel kag sang Juda ang kasugtanan nga ginhimo ko sa ila mga katigulangan.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga padal-an ko sila sang kalaglagan nga indi nila malikawan. Bisan magpangayo pa sila sang bulig sa akon indi ko sila pagpamatian.
Magapangayo na lang sila sang bulig sa mga dios-dios nga ila ginasunugan sang insenso, pero indi gid ini makabulig sa ila kon mag-abot na ang kalaglagan.
“Kamo nga mga taga-Juda, kadamo gid sang inyo mga dios, pareho kadamo sang inyo mga banwa. Kag kon ano kadamo ang mga dalan sa Jerusalem amo man kadamo ang mga halaran nga inyo ginpatindog para sunugan sang insenso para sa makangilil-ad nga dios-dios nga si Baal.
“Gani Jeremias Jeremias , indi ka magpangamuyo para sa sini nga mga tawo. Indi ka magpakitluoy sa akon para sa ila, kay indi ko sila pagpamatian kon magpanawag sila sa akon sa tion sang ila kalisod.
Ang katawhan nga akon ginhigugma naghimo sang madamo nga malain nga mga butang. Ti, ano ang ila kinamatarong sa pagkadto sa akon templo? Makapugong bala ang ila mga halad sa kalaglagan nga magaabot sa ila? Kon maghimo sila sang kalautan nagakalipay pa sila!”
Sang una anay ginapaanggid kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa madabong nga kahoy sang olibo nga madamo sang maayo nga mga bunga. Pero sa singgit sang mabaskog nga tingog, sunugon niya kamo, kag ang inyo mga sanga indi na gid mapuslan.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom amo ang nagtukod sang Juda kag Israel, pero karon nagmando siya nga laglagon ini tungod sa malain nga inyo ginhimo. Ginpaakig ninyo siya paagi sa pagsunog ninyo sang insenso kay Baal.
Ginsugiran ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sang plano sang mga kaaway kontra sa akon.
Pareho ako sa isa ka mahagop nga karnero nga wala kahibalo nga ginadala na sa ilihawan. Wala ako kahibalo nga may plano gali sila sa pagpatay sa akon. Nagasiling sila, “Patyon ta siya pareho sang pagtapas sang kahoy nga may mga bunga, para madula siya sa kalibutan kag malimtan na.”
“Padumduma ang mga taga-Juda kag taga-Jerusalem sang mga tulumanon sang amon kasugtanan.
Pero nagpangamuyo ako, nagpangamuyo ako, “O Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, matarong ang imo paghukom, kag nahibaluan mo ang hunahuna kag tagipusuon sang tawo. Ipakita sa akon ang imo pagbalos sa ila, kay gintugyan ko sa imo ang akon kaso.”
Wala gid sing may mabilin nga buhi sa mga taga-Anatot, kay padal-an ko sila sang kalaglagan sa tion nga silutan sila.”
Silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling nga pakamalauton ko ang tawo nga indi magtuman sa mga tulumanon sa sini nga kasugtanan.
Ini nga mga tulumanon ginpatuman ko sa inyo mga katigulangan sang ginpaguwa ko sila sa Egypt, ang lugar nga pareho sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan nga tunawan sang salsalon. Nagsiling ako sa ila, ‘Kon tumanon ninyo ako kag ang tanan ko nga mga sugo, mangin katawhan ko kamo kag ako mangin Dios ninyo.
Nagsabat ako, “Kabay pa, Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Isugid ini nga mga mensahi sa mga banwa sang Juda kag sa mga dalan sang Jerusalem: ‘Dumduma ninyo kag tumana ang mga tulumanon sa sini nga kasugtanan.
Halin pa sang tion nga ginpaguwa ko ang inyo mga katigulangan sa Egypt hasta subong, liwat-liwat ko sila nga ginpaandaman nga tumanon nila ako.
Pero wala gid sila magpamati ukon magsapak. Sa baylo, ginsunod nila ang katig-a sang ila malain nga tagipusuon. Ginsugo ko sila nga tumanon nila ang kasugtanan, pero wala gid nila pagtumana. Gani ginpadal-an ko sila sang tanan nga pagpakamalaot nga nasulat sa sini nga kasugtanan.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “May nagplano kontra sa akon sa mga pumuluyo sang Juda kag Jerusalem.
O Ginoo Ginoo , kon may reklamo ako kontra sa imo, nagaguwa nga husto ka. Pero karon may pamangkot ako parte sa imo hustisya: Ngaa bala nga nagauswag ang mga malain? Ngaa nagakabuhi nga matawhay ang mga tawo nga nagaluib sa imo?
Laglagon sang madamo nga pangulo ang Juda nga ginakabig ko nga Juda nga ginakabig ko nga akon talamnan sang ubas. Tasak-tasakon nila ining matahom ko nga duta kag himuon nga kamingawan.
Himuon nila ini nga isa ka mamingaw nga lugar kag wala na sing pulos sa akon atubangan. Mangin kamingawan ini, kay wala na sing may magakabalaka sini.
Magaabot ang mga manuglaglag sa mahawan nga mga bukid sa desierto sa paglaglag sang bilog nga duta, kag wala gid sing may makapalagyo.
Magatanom ang akon katawhan sang trigo, pero magaani sila sang mga tunok. Magapangabudlay sila sing tudo-tudo, pero wala sila sing may makuha. Magaani sila sang kahuy-anan tungod sa akon puwerte nga kaakig.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Amo ini ang himuon ko sa tanan nga malain nga nasyon sa palibot sang Israel, nga nagahingabot sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa akon katawhan bilang ila palanublion: Pahalinon ko sila sa ila duta, subong nga pahalinon ko ang mga taga-Juda sa ila duta.
Pero sa ulihi kaluoyan ko liwat ini nga mga nasyon kag ibalik ko sila sa ila kaugalingon nga duta.
Kag kon batunon nila sing tinagipusuon ang pagtuluohan sang akon katawhan kag magsumpa sa akon ngalan, subong nga gintudluan nila sadto ang akon katawhan sa pagsumpa sa ngalan ni Baal, mangin parte man sila sang akon katawhan.
Pero kon may ara nga nasyon nga indi magtuman sa akon, sa akon, pahalinon ko gid sila sa ila duta kag laglagon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginpakamaayo mo sila pareho sang kahoy nga nakapanggamot, nga nagtubo kag nagpamunga. Ginadayaw ka nila sa ila lang baba kag indi halin sa ila tagipusuon.
Pero kilala mo ako, O Ginoo Ginoo . Nakita mo ang akon mga ginahimo kag nahibaluan mo kon ano ang akon pagkilala sa imo. Guyura ini nga mga tawo pareho sang mga karnero nga ilihawon. Paina sila para ihawon.
Hasta san-o pa bala ang pagmala sang duta kag ang pagkalaya sang mga hilamon? Nagakalamatay ang mga sapat kag ang mga pispis tungod sa kalautan sang mga katawhan nga nagaestar sa sini nga duta. Nagasiling pa sila, “Wala nagapahilabot ang Dios sa aton madangatan.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo , “Jeremias, Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Jeremias, kon ginakapuyan ka gani sa pagpalumba sa mga tawo, ano pa ayhan sa mga kabayo? Kon nagakadasma ka gani sa mahawan nga lugar, ano pa ayhan sa kagulangan nga malapit sa Suba nga malapit sa Suba sang Jordan?
Bisan ang imo mga utod nga lalaki kag mga paryente nagluib sa imo. Nagreklamo sila kag nagplano sing malain kontra sa imo. Indi ka magsalig sa ila bisan maayo pa ang ila ihambal sa imo.
“Sikwayon ko ang akon katawhan, ang nasyon nga akon ginapanag-iyahan. Itugyan ko ang akon hinigugma nga katawhan nga katawhan sa kamot sang ila mga kaaway.
Nagbato sila sa akon pareho sang nagangurob nga leon sa kagulangan, gani ginakaugtan ko sila.
Nangin makangilil-ad sila sa akon pareho sang pispis nga nagapangdagit. Kag sila mismo ginalibutan sang mga pispis nga nagapangdagit. Ipatipon ko ang tanan nga mapintas nga mga sapat sa pagkaon sa ila.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Lakat kag bakal sang linen nga wagkos, kag iwagkos ini sa imo hawak. Pero indi mo ini paglabhan.”
Ining malain nga mga tawo indi magtuman sa akon mga pulong. Ginasunod nila ang katig-a sang ila tagipusuon, kag nagaalagad kag nagasimba sila sa iban nga mga dios. Gani mangin pareho gid sila sa wagkos nga indi na gid mapuslan.
Subong nga ang wagkos nagahugot sa hawak sang isa ka tawo, gusto ko man nga ang bilog nga katawhan sang Israel kag Juda mag-uyat sing hugot sa akon. Ginhimo ko sila nga akon katawhan para sa akon kadayawan kag kadungganan, pero indi sila magpamati sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Jeremias, silinga ang katawhan sang Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel nagasiling, ‘Ang tanan ninyo nga panit nga suludlan sang bino mapuno sang bino.’ Kag kon magsiling sila sa imo, ‘Nahibaluan na namon nga mapuno sang bino ang tanan namon nga panit nga suludlan,’
sabton mo sila nga amo ini ang buot ko silingon: ‘ Silutan ko Silutan ko ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang sini nga duta pareho nga daw pareho nga daw hubugon ko sila sang bino. Huo, silutan ko, Huo, silutan ko, ang mga hari nga kaliwat ni David, mga pari, mga propeta kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem.
Bungguon ko sila sa isa kag isa, ginikanan kag kabataan. Indi gid ako maluoy sa pagpamatay sa ila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Magpamati kamo sing maayo, kag indi kamo magpabugal, kay naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Padunggi ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios samtang wala pa niya mapadala ang kadulom, kag samtang wala pa kamo masandad sa madulom nga mga bukid. Ang kasanag nga inyo ginalauman himuon niya nga puwerte nga kadulom.
Kon indi pa gid gani kamo magpamati, magahibi ako sa tago tungod sa inyo bugal. Magahibi ako sing tudo nga nagatululo ang akon mga luha, kay pagabihagon kamo nga katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginsugo ako sang Ginoo nga Ginsugo ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga silingon ang hari kag ang iya iloy nga magpanaog sa ila trono kay madali na lang kuhaon sa ila ulo ang ila matahom nga mga korona.
Pagasiradhan ang mga puwertahan sang mga banwa sang Negev; wala na sing may makasulod ukon makaguwa didto. Pagabihagon ang tanan nga katawhan sang Juda kag maubos sila.
Gani nagbakal ako sang wagkos kag ginwagkos ini sa akon hawak, suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Tan-awa ang mga kaaway nga nagapadulong halin sa north. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, diin na bala ang imo mga pumuluyo nga imo ginapabugal, nga gintugyan ko sa imo nga imo tatapon?
Ano ang batyagon mo kon ang imo kadampig nga nasyon magagahom sa imo? Indi ayhan magabatyag ka sing kasakit pareho sa isa ka babayi nga manugbata?
Kon magpamangkot ka sa imo kaugalingon kon ngaa ginlaglag ka pareho sang babayi nga gin-gisi ang iya bayo kag ginhimuslan, ini tungod sa imo madamo nga sala.
Mailisan bala sang isa ka maitom nga tawo
Ubahan ko kamo para pakahuy-an.
Nakita ko ang inyo makangilil-ad nga mga buhat nga amo ang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios nga amo ang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios sa mga bukid kag sa mga uma. Pareho kamo sa babayi nga nagpanginlalaki nga puwerte ang kailigbon, ukon pareho sa makahuluya nga babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas. Kaluluoy kamo, mga taga-Jerusalem! Hasta san-o pa bala kamo magpabilin nga mahigko?”
Dayon nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Huksa ang wagkos nga imo ginbakal kag maglakat ka sa may Suba sang Suba sang Euphrates
Gani nagkadto ako sa Suba sang Suba sang Euphrates kag gintago ko ini didto suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon.
Pagkaligad sang malawig nga tion, nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Magkadto ka sa Suba sang Suba sang Euphrates kag kuhaa ang wagkos nga ginpatago ko sa imo didto.”
Gani nagkadto ako sa Suba sang Suba sang Euphrates kag ginkuha ko ang wagkos sa gintaguan ko sini, pero gabok na ini kag indi na gid mapuslan.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon parte sa malawig nga tingadlaw:
Amo ini ang sabat sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga tawo: “Luyag gid ninyo nga magpalayo sa akon; ginapagustuhan lang ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon. Gani indi ko na kamo pagbatunon bilang akon katawhan bilang akon katawhan . Dumdumon ko ang inyo mga kalautan kag silutan ko kamo.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Indi ka magpangamuyo para sa kaayuhan sang sini nga mga tawo.
Bisan magpuasa pa sila, indi ko sila pagpamatian sa ila pagpangayo sang bulig sa akon. Bisan maghalad pa sila sang halad nga ginasunog kag halad nga regalo, indi ko ina pagbatunon. Sa baylo, pamatyon ko sila paagi sa inaway, sa gutom, kag sa mga kahalitan.”
Pero nagsiling ako, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , nahibaluan mo nga permi sila ginahambalan sang mga propeta nga wala kuno sing magaabot nga inaway ukon gutom, tungod kay nagsiling ka nga hatagan mo sila sang kalinong sa ila nasyon.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ina nga mga propeta nagapanagna sing butig sa akon ngalan. Wala ko sila ginpadala ukon ginsugo, kag wala ako nagpakighambal sa ila. Ang ginasugid nila sa inyo nga mga palanan-awon wala naghalin sa akon; ang ila mga ginapropesiya wala sing pulos nga halin lang sa ila madaya nga tagipusuon.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga silutan ko ining butigon nga butigon nga mga propeta nga nagapanagna sa akon ngalan bisan wala ko sila ginsugo. Nagasiling sila nga wala kuno sing inaway ukon gutom nga magaabot sa sini nga nasyon. Ina nga mga propeta malaglag paagi sa inaway kag gutom.
Kag kon parte sa mga tawo nga ila ginasugiran sang ila mga mensahi, ang ila mga bangkay ipanghaboy sa mga dalan sang Jerusalem. Magakalamatay sila tungod sa inaway kag gutom. Wala sing may maglubong sa ila, sa ila mga asawa, kag sa ila mga kabataan. Ipaagom ko sa ila ang silot nga nagakabagay sa ila.
“ Jeremias, Jeremias, isiling ini sa mga tawo: ‘Adlaw-gab-i wala untat ang akon paghibi kay grabe ang pilas sang akon katawhan nga ginakabig ko nga akon ginakabig ko nga akon birhen nga bata, kag nasakitan gid sila.
Kon magkadto ako sa mga uma kag mga banwa, makita ko ang mga bangkay sang nagkalamatay sa inaway kag sa gutom. Ang mga propeta kag mga pari nagapadayon sa ila buluhaton, pero wala sila nakahibalo kon ano ang ila ginabuhat.
O Ginoo , O Ginoo Ginoo , ginsikway mo na gid bala ang Juda? Ginakaugtan mo gid bala ang Jerusalem?
“Nagapangasubo gid ang Juda; ang iya sini mga banwa nagapalangluya. Nagapungko ang mga pumuluyo sini sa duta nga nagapangasubo, kag mabatian ang mga paghinibi sa Jerusalem.
O Ginoo Ginoo , ginaako namon ang amon kalautan kag ang sala sang amon mga katigulangan. Nakasala gid kami kontra sa imo.
Para sa kadungganan sang imo ngalan indi kami pag-isikway. Indi pagpakahuy-i ang imo halangdon nga trono. Dumduma ang imo kasugtanan sa amon, kag indi paggub-a.
Wala sing bisan isa nga dios-dios sang mga nasyon nga makapaulan. Bisan ang langit mismo indi makapaulan kundi ikaw lang gid, Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios. Ikaw lang ang makahimo sini, gani sa imo kami nagalaom.
Ginasugo sang mga manggaranon ang ila mga suluguon sa pagsag-ob. Nagakadto sila sa mga buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig pero wala sing tubig. Gani nagabalik sila nga wala sing sulod ang ila suludlan. Tungod sa puwerte nga kahuya, ginatabunan nila ang ila mga ulo.
Naglitik ang duta kay wala sing ulan. Kag tungod sa kahuya, ginatabunan sang mga mangunguma ang ila mga ulo.
Bisan ang usa ginbayaan niya ang iya bag-o lang natawo nga bata kay wala na sing hilamon.
Ang talunon nga mga donkey nagatindog sa mahawan nga mga bukid kag nagahangos pareho sang ginauhaw nga talunon nga mga ido.
Nagsiling ang mga tawo, Nagsiling ang mga tawo, “O Ginoo Ginoo , nakasala kami sa imo. Permi kami nagatalikod sa imo, kag takos kami nga silutan. Pero buligi kami para sa imo kadungganan.
O Ginoo Ginoo , ikaw lang ang paglaom sang Israel. Ikaw ang iya manluluwas sa tion sang kalisod. Ngaa nga daw sa pangayaw ka lang sa amon? Ngaa nga daw sa nagaagi ka lang sing isa ka gab-i sa amon nasyon?
Pareho bala ikaw sa tawo nga wala sing may mahimo?
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Bisan si Moises kag si Samuel pa ang magpakitluoy sa akon para sa sini nga mga tawo, indi ko gid sila pagkaluoyan. Gani ipalayo sila sa akon presensya. Pahalina sila!
Kaluluoy gid sa akon! Kuntani wala na lang ako gintawo sang akon iloy. Ginakontra ako bisan diin sa bilog nga Juda. Wala ako sing may gin-utangan ukon ginpautang, pero ginapakamalaot ako sang tanan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, sa akon, “Sa pagkamatuod, mangin maayo ang tanan para sa imo. Magapangabay ang imo mga kaaway nga pangamuyuan mo sila sa tion sang kalisdanan kag kahalitan.
“ Subong nga Subong nga wala sing may makabali sang kabilya nga salsalon ukon saway, wala man sing may makapierdi sang mga kaaway wala man sing may makapierdi sang mga kaaway nga halin sa north.
Ipaagaw ko sa mga kaaway ang inyo mga manggad kag mga pagkabutang tungod sa tanan ninyo nga sala nga nahimo sa bilog nga nasyon.
Ipaulipon ko kamo sa inyo mga kaaway sa lugar nga wala ninyo mahibalui, kag ipaagom ko sa inyo ang akon kaakig nga pareho sang nagadabadaba nga kalayo.”
Nagsiling si Jeremias, Nagsiling si Jeremias, “O Ginoo Ginoo , nahibaluan mo ang tanan! Dumduma kag buligi ako. Balusi ang mga nagahingabot sa akon. Nakahibalo ako nga Nakahibalo ako nga indi ka dali mangakig, gani indi pagkuhaa ang akon kabuhi. Dumduma kon paano ako nag-antos sa kahuy-anan tungod sa imo.
Sang naghambal ka sa akon, ginpamatian ko ikaw. Ang imo mga pulong amo ang akon kalipay, kay imo ako, O Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom.
Wala ako mag-upod sa iban sa pagpangalipay kag pagsinadya. Nag-isahanon lang ako tungod nga nagpakighambal ka sa akon, kag ginsugiran mo ako sang imo kaakig.
Ngaa bala nga wala sing katapusan ang akon kasakit? Ngaa bala nga indi na mag-ayo ang akon pilas? Indi na bala ini mabulong? Paslawon mo bala ako pareho sang sapa nga nagamala kon tingadlaw?”
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, sa akon, “Kon magbiya ka sa imo sala, pabalikon ko ikaw sa akon para padayon ka nga makaalagad sa akon. Kon maghambal ka sang mapuslanon nga mga butang kag indi mga butang nga wala sing pulos, mangin manughambal ko ikaw. Kinahanglan nga sila ang magdangop sa imo, kag indi ikaw ang magdangop sa ila.
Kon magpamangkot sila kon sa diin sila pakadto, silinga sila nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: Ang natalana nga mapatay, mapatay gid. Ang iban natalana nga mapatay sa inaway, kag ang iban sa gutom. Ang iban natalana nga bihagon.
Himuon ko ikaw nga pareho sang mapag-on nga pader nga saway sa sini nga mga tawo. Magapakig-away sila sa imo, pero indi sila makadaog sa imo, kay kaupod mo ako, kag protektaran kag luwason ko ikaw.
Luwason ko gid ikaw sa mga kamot sang malain kag mapintas nga mga tawo.”
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga padal-an ko sila sang apat ka klase sang manuglaglag: Pamatyon sila sa inaway, tabanon sang mga ido ang ila mga bangkay, kag ubuson sila kaon sang mga pispis, kag sang talunon nga mga sapat.
Himuon ko sila nga makangilil-ad sa tanan nga ginharian sa kalibutan tungod sa ginhimo ni Manase (nga anak ni Hezekia) sa Jerusalem, sang siya ang hari sa Juda.
“ Kamo nga katawhan sang Kamo nga katawhan sang Jerusalem, sin-o ayhan ang maluoy sa inyo? Sin-o ayhan ang magpangasubo para sa inyo? Kag sin-o ayhan ang magpamangkot kon ano na ang inyo kahimtangan?
Ginsikway ninyo ako; permi kamo nagatalikod sa akon. Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga iuntay ko ang akon mga kamot sa paglaglag sa inyo. Natak-an na ako sa pagkaluoy sa inyo.
Silutan ko kamo nga daw sa mga upa nga ginpahanginan sa mga puwertahan sang siyudad. Laglagon ko kamo kag ang inyo mga kabataan, tungod kay wala kamo magbiya sa inyo malain nga pagginawi.
Padamuon ko ang inyo mga balo nga babayi, nga daw daw mas madamo pa sang sa balas sa baybayon. Sa udtong-adlaw padal-an ko sang manuglaglag ang mga iloy sang inyo mga kabataan nga lalaki. Sa hinali magaabot sa ila ang kasubo kag kahadlok.
Malipong kag haluson na makaginhawa ang iloy nga mapatyan sang pito ka anak nga lalaki. Ang iya mga anak pareho sang mga anak pareho sang adlaw nga nga nagsalop sang temprano pa. Mahuy-an gid siya kay mawad-an siya sang mga anak kay mawad-an siya sang mga anak . Kag ang mabilin nga buhi ipapatay ko pa sa ila mga kaaway. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Kon isugid mo ini nga mga butang sa mga tawo kag magpamangkot sila, ‘Ano bala nga sala ang aton nahimo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios nga ginpaandaman niya kita nga magaabot sa aton ining puwerte nga kalaglagan?’
silingon mo sila nga amo ini ang akon sabat: Tungod kay ginsikway ako sang inyo mga katigulangan. Nag-alagad sila kag nagsimba sa iban nga mga dios. Ginsikway nila ako kag wala nila pagtumana ang akon kasuguan.
Kag kamo mas malain pa sang sa inyo mga katigulangan. Ginsunod ninyo ang katig-a sang inyo malain nga tagipusuon imbes nga magsunod kamo sa akon.
Gani palayason ko kamo sa sini nga duta pakadto sa duta nga wala ninyo mahibalui ukon sang inyo mga katigulangan. Kag didto pagusto kamo sa pag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios; kag indi ko gid kamo pagkaluoyan.
“Pero magaabot ang tion nga ang mga tawo indi na magsumpa sing pareho sini: ‘Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaguwa sa mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.’
Sa baylo, magasiling sila, ‘Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaguwa sa mga Israelinhon halin sa nasyon sa north kag sa tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin ginpalapta niya sila.’ Kay ibalik ko sila sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa ila mga katigulangan.
“Pero karon padal-an ko sila anay sang madamo nga kaaway nga pareho sang mangingisda nga magadakop sa ila. Ang ila mga kaaway pareho man sa mga mangangayam nga magapangita sa ila sa mga bukid kag sa mga kuweba.
Nakita ko ang tanan nila nga pagginawi. Wala gid sing may natago sa akon. Nakita ko ang ila mga sala.
Gani pabayaron ko sila sing doble sa ila kalautan kag sala, tungod kay gindagtaan nila ang duta nga akon ginapanag-iyahan paagi sa pagsimba sa ila makangilil-ad kag patay nga mga dios-dios.”
Nagsiling ako, Nagsiling ako, “O Ginoo Ginoo , ikaw ang akon kusog kag mabakod nga dalangpan sa tion sang kalisod. Magapalapit sa imo ang mga nasyon halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan kag magasiling, ‘Wala sing pulos ang mga dios-dios sang amon mga katigulangan. Wala gid ini sing may nahimo nga kaayuhan sa ila.
“Indi ka gid magpangasawa ukon magpamata sa sini nga lugar.
Makahimo bala ang tawo sang iya dios? Kon makahimo, indi ina matuod nga dios!’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Gani karon ipakita ko sa ila ang akon gahom kag ikasarang para mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Kay sugiran ko ikaw kon ano ang matabo sa mga bata nga natawo sa sini nga lugar kag sa ila sini mga ginikanan.
Magakalamatay sila sa grabe nga balatian. Wala sing may magpangasubo ukon maglubong sa ila. Maglalapta ang ila mga bangkay pareho sang mga ipot sa palahalban. Ang iban sa ila magakalamatay sa inaway kag sa gutom, kag ang ila mga bangkay kaunon sang mga pispis kag talunon nga mga sapat.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ka magsulod sa balay nga may nagapangasubo sa patay. Indi ka magpangasubo ukon magpakita sang imo kaluoy para kay bisan sin-o. Kay ginbawi ko na ang akon pagpakamaayo, paghigugma, kag kaluoy sa sini nga mga tawo.
Magakalamatay ang bisan sin-o sa sini nga duta, manggaranon man ukon imol, kag wala sing may maglubong sa ila. Wala sing may magpilas sang iya kaugalingon ukon magpakiskis sang iya ulo sa pagpakita sang iya pagpangasubo sa napatay.
Wala sing may maghatag sang pagkaon ukon ilimnon para lipayon ang mga nagapangasubo sa patay, bisan pa gani sa namatyan sang amay ukon iloy.
Indi ka man magsulod sa balay nga may punsyon kag magkaon kag mag-inom didto.
Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling: ‘Makita mo mismo sa imo tiyempo nga untaton ko ang pagkinalipay kag pagsinadya sa sini nga lugar, pati ang pagkinalipay sang bag-ong kasal.’
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kamo nga katawhan sang Juda, ang inyo mga sala gin-inggreb sa inyo matig-a nga mga tagipusuon, pareho sang mga pulong nga gin-inggreb sa malapad nga bato ukon sa mga sulosungay sa mga corner sa mga corner sang inyo mga halaran.
Pero Pero ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nakahibalo kon ano ang ara sa tagipusuon kag hunahuna sang tawo. Balusan ko ang kada isa suno sa iya pagginawi kag mga binuhatan.”
Ang tawo nga nakaangkon sang manggad sa malain nga paagi pareho siya sang pispis nga naglumlom sa itlog nga indi iya. Sa ulihi, sa tunga-tunga sang iya pagpangabuhi, madula ang iya manggad kag magaguwa nga buang-buang siya.
O Ginoo , O Ginoo Ginoo , ang imo templo amo ang imo matahom nga trono halin pa sang una.
Ikaw Ginoo Ginoo , ang paglaom sang Israel. Mahuy-an gid ang tanan nga nagabiya sa imo. Ilubong gid sila sa idalom sang duta, kay ginsikway nila ikaw, ang tuburan nga nagahatag sang kabuhi.
O Ginoo Ginoo , ayuha ako kag magaayo ako; luwasa ako kag maluwas ako. Kay ikaw ang akon ginadayaw.
Nagasiling ang mga tawo sa akon, “Diin na atong ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo ? Ngaa nga wala pa ini matabo?”
O Ginoo Ginoo , wala ako magpatumbaya sa akon buluhaton bilang manugbantay sang imo katawhan. Wala gid ako nagpilit sa imo nga padal-an sila sang kalaglagan. Nahibaluan mo ang akon mga ginsiling.
Indi ako pagpahadluka, kay ikaw ang akon dalangpan sa tion sang kalaglagan.
Pakahuy-i kag pahadluka ang mga nagahingabot sa akon, pero ako ya indi. Padal-i sila sang kalaglagan para malaglag sila sing bug-os.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Magtindog ka sa mga puwertahan sang Jerusalem. Didto ka mag-una tindog sa puwertahan nga ginaagyan sang mga hari sang Juda, kag dayon sa iban pa nga puwertahan.
Bisan ang inyo mga kabataan nagasimba sa inyo mga halaran kag sa mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera sa idalom sang madabong nga mga kahoy kag sa ibabaw sang mga bukid,
Kag silinga ang mga tawo, ‘Pamatii ninyo ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo , kamo nga mga hari kag katawhan sang Juda, kag kamo tanan nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem nga nagaagi sa sini nga mga puwertahan.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Kon ginahatagan ninyo sang bili ang inyo kaugalingon, indi kamo magdala sang inyo mga balaligya sa puwertahan sang Jerusalem sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Huo, indi gid kamo mag-obra ukon magdala sang inyo mga balaligya halin sa inyo nga balay sa sini nga adlaw. Kabiga ninyo ini nga isa ka pinasahi nga adlaw. Ginmando ko ini sa inyo mga katigulangan,
pero wala gid sila magpamati sa akon. Mga matig-a sila sang ulo! Indi nila pagbatunon ang akon pagdisiplina sa ila.
Pero kon magtuman lang kamo sa akon, nga indi kamo mag-obra ukon magdala sang inyo mga balaligya sa mga puwertahan sang Jerusalem sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kundi kabigon ninyo ini nga isa ka pinasahi nga adlaw,
pakamaayuhon ko kamo pakamaayuhon ko kamo . May ara gid permi nga hari nga magagahom diri sa Jerusalem nga kaliwat ni David. Magasakay ang hari kag ang iya mga opisyal sa mga karwahe kag mga kabayo kag magaparada pasulod sa mga puwertahan sang siyudad, kaupod sang katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem. Kag ini nga siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem pagaestaran hasta san-o.
Magasimba ang mga tawo sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa mga lugar sa palibot sang Jerusalem kag sa mga banwa sang Juda kag Benjamin, kag halin sa mga bulobukid sa west,
Pero kon indi kamo magsunod sa akon kag indi ninyo pagkabigon nga pinasahi nga adlaw ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag magdala kamo sang inyo mga balaligya sa mga puwertahan sang Jerusalem sa sina nga adlaw, pagasunugon ko ang mga puwertahan sang Jerusalem pati ang mabakod nga mga parte sang sini nga siyudad, kag wala gid sing may makapatay sa sini nga kalayo.’ ”
pati na sa mga bukid sa uma. Gani ipakuha ko sa inyo mga kaaway ang inyo mga manggad kag mga pagkabutang, pati na ang inyo mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, tungod sa sala nga nahimo sang bilog ninyo nga nasyon.
Madula sa inyo ang duta nga ginhatag ko sa inyo. Ipaulipon ko kamo sa inyo mga kaaway sa duta nga wala ninyo mahibalui, tungod kay ginpaakig gid ninyo ako pareho sang nagadabadaba nga kalayo nga indi mapatay.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pakamalauton ko ang tawo nga nagabiya sa akon kag nagasalig sa tawo lang.
Pareho siya sa kahoy-kahoy sa desierto nga wala sing maayo nga palaabuton. Magaestar siya sa mamala kag maasin nga duta nga wala sing may nagaestar.
“Pero “Pero bulahan ang tawo nga nagasalig sa akon, nga ang iya paglaom ara lang sa akon.
Pareho siya sa kahoy nga gintanom sa higad sang sapa, nga nagapangalapkap ang iya mga gamot pakadto sa tubig. Ini nga kahoy wala mahadlok kon mag-abot ang tig-ilinit ukon ang malawig nga tingadlaw. Ang iya mga dahon permi lang berde kag wala untat ang iya pagpamunga.
“Dayaon gid ang tagipusuon sang tawo kag puwerte gid kalaot. Wala sing may makatungkad kon daw ano gid ini kalaot kon daw ano gid ini kalaot .
kag ina nga nasyon ukon ginharian maghimo sang kalautan kag indi magtuman sa akon, indi ko na pagdayunon ang kaayuhan nga akon ginplano para sa iya.
“Gani silinga ang katawhan sang Juda kag sang Jerusalem nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: ‘Pamati! May kalaglagan ako nga ginapreparar kag ginaplano kontra sa inyo. Gani magbiya na kamo sa inyo malain nga pagginawi. Magbag-o na ang kada isa sa inyo sa iya mga pagginawi kag mga ginahimo.’
Gani amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “May ara bala sa iban nga mga nasyon nga nagsiling sang pareho sina? Ang Israel nga pareho sa isa ka birhen nga babayi naghimo sang makangilil-ad nga butang.
Nagakatunaw bala ang snow sa batuhon nga mga bukid sang Lebanon? Nagakahubsan bala ang iya sini matugnaw nga mga sapa? Wala! Wala!
Pero ang akon katawhan nalipat na sa akon. Nagasunog sila sang insenso sa wala sing pulos nga mga dios-dios. Ginbayaan nila ang husto kag husto kag dugay na nga dalan kag naglakat sa indi maayo nga dalan nga sa diin nasandad sila.
Mangin mamingaw ang ila duta kag talamayon hasta san-o. Ang tanan nga magaagi maurungan gid kag magalungo-lungo.
Laptahon ko sila sa atubangan sang ila mga kaaway, pareho sang yab-ok nga ginapalid sang yab-ok nga ginapalid sang hangin nga halin sa east. Talikdan ko sila kag indi pagbuligan sa tion sang ila kalaglagan.”
Dayon nagsiling ang mga tawo, “Dali, mangita kita sang paagi nga mapauntat si Jeremias! May mga pari man kita nga magtudlo sa aton sang kasuguan, kag may maalamon kita nga mga tawo nga maglaygay sa aton, kag may mga propeta man kita nga magpahayag sa aton sang mensahi sang Dios. Gani maghimo-himo kita sang estorya kontra sa iya kag indi na kita magpamati sa iya mga ginahambal.”
Gani nagpangamuyo ako, Gani nagpangamuyo ako, O Ginoo Ginoo , buligi ako! Pamatii kon ano ang ginaplano sang akon mga kaaway kontra sa akon.
“Magkadto ka sa balay sang manughimo sang kolon, kag didto ko ihambal sa imo ang akon mensahi.”
Maayo ang ginahimo ko sa ila, pero ginabalusan nila ako sing malain. Nagkutkot sila sang buho para mahulog ako, bisan nagdangop ako sa imo kag nagpakitluoy para sa ila agod indi mo sila pagsilutan tungod sa imo kaakig sa ila.
Pero karon, pabay-i nga magkalamatay ang ila kabataan sa gutom kag sa inaway. Pabay-i nga mabalo ang ila mga babayi kag madulaan sang kabataan. Pabay-i nga magkalamatay ang ila mga lalaki sa balatian kag ang ila mga pamatan-on sa inaway.
Pasiyagita sila sa kahadlok kon ipasalakay mo gulpi sa mga kaaway ang ila mga balay. Kay nagkutkot sila sang buho para mahulog ako, kag nagbutang sang siod para masiod ako.
Pero nahibaluan mo, O Ginoo Ginoo , ang tanan nila nga plano sa pagpatay sa akon. Gani indi sila pagpatawara sa ila mga sala kag kalautan. Ipapierdi sila sa ila mga kaaway sa ila mga kaaway samtang nagatulok ka. Siluti sila tungod sa imo kaakig.
Gani nagkadto ako sa balay sang manughimo sang kolon kag nakita ko nga nagahimo siya sang kolon.
Kon indi gani maayo ang korte sang kolon nga iya ginahimo, ginaliwat niya ini hasta nga maluyagan niya.
“Kamo nga katawhan sang Israel, indi bala nga mahimo ko sa inyo ang pareho sa ginhimo sang manughimo sang kolon sa lunang? Subong nga ang lunang ara sa kamot sang manughimo sang kolon, kamo ara man sa akon mga kamot.
Kon gindeklarar ko na nga ang isa ka nasyon ukon ginharian magabot, marumpag, kag malaglag,
kag ina nga nasyon ukon ginharian magbiya sa iya kalautan, indi ko na pagdayunon ang kalaglagan nga akon ginplano para sa iya.
Kag kon gindeklarar ko na nga magabangon kag magatindog liwat ang isa ka nasyon ukon ginharian,
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon sa akon , “Magbakal ka sang banga sa manughimo sang kolon. Dayon maghagad ka sang mga manugdumala sang katawhan kag mga manugdumala sang mga pari,
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Buk-a ang banga samtang nagatan-aw ang mga tawo nga nag-upod sa imo.
Silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling, ‘Laglagon ko ang nasyon sang Juda sang Juda kag ang siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem pareho sang pagkadugmok sang sini nga banga nga indi na makay-o pa. Ipanglubong nila ang madamo gid nga madamo gid nga mga patay sa Tofet hasta nga wala na sing lugar nga malubngan.
Amo ina ang himuon ko sa Jerusalem kag sa iya sini mga pumuluyo. Kabigon ini nga siyudad nga mahigko mahigko pareho sang Tofet.
Huo, ang mga balay sa Jerusalem, pati ang mga palasyo sang mga hari sang Juda, kabigon nga mahigko pareho sang Tofet. Sa atop sang sini nga mga balay nagsunog ang mga tawo sang mga insenso sa pagsimba sa pagsimba sa tanan nga butang sa kalangitan, kag naghalad sang mga halad nga ilimnon para sa iban pa nga mga dios.’ ”
Dayon naghalin si Jeremias sa Tofet, nga sa diin ginpadala siya sang Ginoo Ginoo para maghambal sang iya mensahi. Nagkadto siya sa ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling sa mga tawo,
“Pamati kamo, kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: Ipadala ko sa sini nga siyudad kag sa mga baryo sa palibot sini ang mga kalaglagan nga akon ginsiling kontra sa ila, tungod kay matig-a ang ila ulo kag wala nagapamati sa akon mga pulong.”
kag magkadto kamo sa Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom, malapit sa Puwertahan sang Ginahabuyan sang mga Buka nga mga Kolon. Kag didto isugid ang akon ginasiling sa imo.
Magsiling ka, ‘Mga hari sang Juda kag katawhan sang Jerusalem, pamatii ninyo ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel. Amo ini ang iya ginasiling: Magapadala ako sang kalaglagan sa sini nga lugar nga ang bisan sin-o nga makabati parte sini maurungan gid.
Himuon ko ini, Himuon ko ini, kay ginsikway ako sang akon katawhan, kag ini nga pulopatag ginhimo nila nga halaran sang mga halad nga ginasunog para sa iban nga mga dios. Ini nga mga dios wala gani nila makilala ukon sang ila mga katigulangan ukon sang mga hari sang Juda. Nagpamatay pa sila sang mga inosente nga mga kabataan nga mga kabataan sa sini nga lugar.
Nagpatindog sila sang mga simbahan para kay Baal, nga sa diin ginsunog nila ang ila mga kabataan bilang halad para sa iya. Wala gid ako magsugo sini sa ila; wala gani ini magsulod sa akon hunahuna.
Gani, mag-andam kamo, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga magaabot ang tion nga ang mga tawo indi na magtawag sa sini nga lugar nga Tofet ukon Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom, kundi Pulopatag nga Palatyan.
Diri mismo sa sini nga lugar gub-on ko ang plano sang Juda kag Jerusalem. Ipapatay ko sila sa ila mga kaaway paagi sa inaway, kag ipakaon ko ang ila mga bangkay sa mga pispis kag talunon nga mga sapat.
Ipalaglag ko ini nga siyudad kag mangin talamayon ini. Maurungan gid ang tanan nga nagaagi, kag magapanagutsot sila tungod sa natabo sini.
Kibunon ini nga siyudad sang mga kaaway hasta nga maubusan ang mga pumuluyo sang pagkaon. Gani kaunon na lang nila ang ila isigkatawo, bisan ang ila mismo kabataan.’ ”
Ang pari nga si Pashur, nga anak ni Imer, amo sadto ang pinakamataas nga opisyal sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Sang mabatian niya ang mga ginpanghambal ni Jeremias,
Nabatian ko ang mga pagyaguta sang mga tawo. Ginasunod-sunod nila ang akon mga ginahambal nga, Ginasunod-sunod nila ang akon mga ginahambal nga, “Makahaladlok ang nagapalibot sa aton!” Nagasiling pa sila, Nagasiling pa sila, “Isugid ta siya sa iya nga pagtraidor sa iya nga pagtraidor .” Bisan ang tanan ko nga abyan nagahulat sang akon pagkalaglag. Nagasiling sila, “Basi kon madayaan siya. Dayon madaog ta siya kag mabalusan.”
Pero kaupod ko ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo . Pareho ka sa maisog nga soldado, gani ang mga nagahingabot sa akon malaglag kag indi magdaog. Mahuy-an gid sila kag indi magmadinalag-on, kag indi gid malimtan ang ila kahuy-anan hasta san-o.
O Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nahibaluan mo kon sin-o ang matarong. Nahibaluan mo ang tagipusuon kag hunahuna sang tawo. Ipakita sa akon ang imo pagbalos sa ila, kay gintugyan ko sa imo ang akon kaso.
Magkanta kita kag magdayaw sa Ginoo Ginoo ! Kay ginaluwas niya ang mga bululigan sa kamot sang malain nga mga tawo.
Ginapakamalaot ko ang adlaw nga natawo ako! Wala ko ginapakamaayo ang adlaw nga ginbata ako sang akon iloy!
Ginapakamalaot ko ang tawo nga nagbalita sa akon amay nga, “Lalaki ang imo anak!” nga nakapalipay gid sa akon amay.
Kabay pa nga ina nga tawo mangin pareho sang mga banwa nga ginlaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo nga wala sing luoy-luoy. Kabay pa nga mabatian niya ang mga singgit kag pag-ugayong sang mga tawo sa inaway sa bilog nga adlaw.
Kay wala niya ako pagpatya sang ara pa ako sa tiyan sang akon iloy. Kuntani ang tiyan sang akon iloy amo na lang ang akon lulubngan, ukon ginbusong na lang niya kuntani ako hasta san-o.
Ngaa nga natawo pa ako? Agod lang bala makita ko ang kagamo kag kalisod, kag mapatay ako sa kahuya?
ginpahanot niya siya kag ginpapriso didto sa puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginatawag Puwertahan ni Benjamin.
Pagkaaga, ginpaguwa ni Pashur si Jeremias. Nagsiling si Jeremias sa iya, “Pashur, gin-ilisan na sang Ginoo Ginoo ang imo ngalan. Tawgon ka na subong nga Magor Misabib.
Kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Kahadlukan mo ang imo kahimtangan kag ang kahimtangan sang tanan mo nga abyan. Makita mo mismo sila nga pamatyon sang ila mga kaaway sa inaway. Itugyan ko ang bilog nga Juda sa hari sang Babilonia. Ang iban nga mga pumuluyo sini iya pamatyon kag ang iban pagabihagon.
Ipaagaw ko sa mga kaaway ang tanan nga manggad sang sini nga siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem —ang tanan nila nga pinangabudlayan, ang tanan nga malahalon nga mga butang pati ang tanan nga manggad sang mga hari sang Juda. Dal-on ini tanan sang mga kaaway sa Babilonia.
Kag pati ikaw, Pashur, kag ang bilog mo nga panimalay, pagadal-on sa Babilonia. Didto ka mapatay kag ilubong, pati ang tanan mo nga abyan nga imo gintagnaan sing butig.”
O Ginoo Ginoo , gindayaan kag gindaog mo ako. Nangin kaladlawan ako sa mga tawo, kag wala sing untat ang ila pagyaguta sa akon.
Kon maghambal ako ginasinggit ko gid ang mensahi mensahi parte sa pagpamintas kag pagpanglaglag. Kag ining imo mensahi amo ang naghimo sa akon nga kaladlawan kag talamayon permi.
Kon kaisa nagasiling ako nga indi na ako maghambal parte sa imo ukon magsugid sang imo mga mensahi. Pero indi ko mapunggan, kay ang imo pulong daw sa kalayo nga nagadabdab sa akon tagipusuon kag mga tul-an. Ginakapoy na ako sa pagpugong sini.
Naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi kay Jeremias sang ginpadala ni Haring Zedekia kay Jeremias si Pashur nga anak ni Malkia kag ang pari nga si Zefanias nga anak ni Maasea. Ini sila nagsiling kay Jeremias,
Nakadesisyon na ako nga padal-an ini nga siyudad sang kalaglagan kag indi kaayuhan. Itugyan ko ini sa hari sang Babilonia, kag sunugon niya ini. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Kontra ko kamo, mga taga-Jerusalem, kamo nga nagaestar sa mabakod nga lugar sa patag sa ibabaw sang bukid. Nagapabugal Nagapabugal kamo nga nagasiling, ‘Indi kita maano diri! Wala sing may makasalakay sa aton mabakod nga lugar!’
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga silutan ko kamo suno sa inyo mga binuhatan. Sunugon ko ang inyo mga kagulangan hasta nga magkalasunog ang tanan sa palibot sini.”
“Palihog pangabaya ang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagbulig sa amon, kay ginasalakay kami ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia. Basi pa lang maghimo sang milagro ang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang iya ginhimo sang una, para mauntat ang pagsalakay ni Nebucadnezar.”
Pero nagsabat si Jeremias,
“Silinga ninyo si Zedekia nga amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel: Himuon ko nga wala sing pulos ang inyo mga armas nga inyo ginagamit sa pagpakig-away kay Nebucadnezar kag sa iya mga soldado
Ako mismo ang magpakig-away kontra sa inyo paagi sa akon gahom, tungod sa akon puwerte nga kaakig.
Pamatyon ko ang tanan nga nagaestar sa sini nga siyudad, tawo man ukon sapat. Magakalamatay sila sa grabe nga balatian.
Dayon, ikaw Haring Zedekia sang Juda, kag ang imo mga opisyal, kag ang mga tawo nga nabilin nga wala nagkalamatay sa balatian, sa inaway, kag sa gutom, itugyan ko kay Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag sa iban pa ninyo nga kaaway nga gusto magpatay sa inyo. Pamatyon kamo ni Nebucadnezar nga wala gid sing luoy-luoy. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Silinga man ninyo ang katawhan sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem nga amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Pamati! Magpili kamo sa kabuhi ukon kamatayon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magapabilin sa sini nga siyudad mapatay sa inaway, sa gutom ukon sa balatian. Pero ang magsurender sa mga taga-Babilonia
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Magpanaog ka sa templo kag magkadto sa templo kag magkadto sa palasyo sang hari sang Juda kag ihambal ini nga mensahi:
Mapatay siya sa lugar nga sa diin siya ginbihag. Indi na niya makita liwat ini nga duta.
“Kaluluoy ka, Jehoyakim, Jehoyakim, nga nagapatindog sang imo palasyo sa indi matarong nga paagi. Ginapaobra mo ang imo isigkatawo nga wala sing bayad.
Nagasiling ka, ‘Magapatindog ako sang palasyo nga may malapad nga mga kuwarto sa ibabaw. Pabutangan ko ini sang dalagko nga mga bintana kag padingdingan sang sedro, kag dayon papintahan sang pula.’
“Nagahunahuna ka bala nga mangin bantog ka nga hari kon sedro ang imo palasyo? Ngaa indi ka magsunod sa imo amay? Husto kag matarong ang iya mga ginhimo, gani nagmainuswagon siya kag maayo ang iya pagkabuhi.
Ginprotektaran niya ang kinamatarong sang mga imol, gani nangin maayo gid ang tanan sa iya. Amo ina ang husto nga pagkilala sa akon.
Pero ikaw ya, ang imo handom amo lang ang pagpangdaya, pagpamatay sang mga inosente, pagpamigos kag pagpanguwarta.”
Gani amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo parte kay Haring Jehoyakim sang Juda, nga anak ni Josia: “Wala sing may magpangasubo sa iya kon mapatay siya kon mapatay siya . Ang iya pamilya, mga opisyal, kag mga tinawo indi magpangasubo sa iya.
Ilubong siya pareho sa paglubong sang patay nga patay nga donkey; guyuron siya kag ihaboy sa guwa sang puwertahan sang Jerusalem.”
‘Hari sang Juda, nga kaliwat ni David, pamatii ining mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo . Magpamati man ang imo mga opisyal kag katawhan nga nagaagi sa sini nga puwertahan.
“ Kamo nga katawhan sang Juda, Kamo nga katawhan sang Juda, magsinggit kamo sa kahadlok kay wala na ang inyo kadampig nga mga nasyon. Pangitaa ninyo sila sa Lebanon. Tawga ninyo sila sa Bashan kag sa Abarim.
Ginpaandaman ko kamo sang maayo pa ang inyo kahimtangan, pero indi kamo magpamati. Amo na gid ina ang inyo batasan halin sang bata pa kamo; indi gid kamo magtuman sa akon.
Laptahon ko ang tanan ninyo nga pangulo pareho sang upa nga ginapalid sang hangin, kag ang inyo kadampig nga mga nasyon nga mga nasyon pagabihagon. Mahuy-an gid kamo tungod sang tanan ninyo nga kalautan.
“Kamo nga nagaestar sa palasyo sang Jerusalem nga palasyo sang Jerusalem nga hinimo halin sa mga kahoy nga kahoy nga sedro nga halin sa Lebanon, magaugayong kamo kon mag-abot na ang mga kasakit sa inyo, pareho sang pag-ugayong sang isa ka babayi nga manugbata.
“Ako, ang buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo , nagasumpa nga sikwayon ko ikaw, Haring Jehoyakin sang Juda, nga anak ni Jehoyakim. Bisan pareho ka sa singsing sa akon tuo nga kamot
Itugyan ko ikaw sa mga nagatinguha sa pagpatay sa imo nga imo ginakahadlukan. Huo, itugyan ko ikaw kay Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag sa iya mga soldado.
Itapok ko ikaw kag ang imo iloy sa iban nga lugar nga indi ninyo natawhan, kag didto kamo mapatay.
Indi na gid kamo makabalik sa duta nga inyo ginahandom nga balikan.
Jehoyakin, pareho ka sang buka nga kolon nga ginhaboy kay indi na mapuslan. Amo ina kon ngaa ikaw kag ang imo kabataan itapok sa lugar nga wala ninyo mahibalui.”
O duta sang Juda, sang Juda, pamatii gid ang pulong sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Maghimo kamo sang matarong kag husto. Buligi ninyo ang mga ginkawatan; luwasa ninyo sila sa mga nagadaogdaog sa ila. Indi ninyo paghimui sing malain ukon pagpintasi ang mga ilo, mga balo nga babayi, kag ang mga pangayaw. Kag indi ninyo pagsentensyahan nga patyon ang mga inosente.
Kay amo ini ang iya ginasiling: “Isulat nga ang ini nga tawo nga si Jehoyakin nga si Jehoyakin daw wala sing anak, kay wala sing bisan isa sa iya mga anak nga magapungko sa trono ni David bilang hari sang Juda. Ini nga tawo indi gid magmauswagon sa iya kabuhi.”
Kay kon tumanon lang ninyo ini nga mga sugo, may ara gid permi nga hari nga kaliwat ni David nga magagahom sa inyo diri sa Jerusalem. Magasakay ang hari sa mga karwahe kag mga kabayo, kag magaparada pasulod sa puwertahan sang palasyo kaupod sang iya mga opisyal kag katawhan.
Pero kon indi gani ninyo pagtumanon ini nga mga sugo, magasumpa ako sa akon kaugalingon nga malaglag ini nga palasyo.’ ”
“Pareho ka katahom sang Gilead ukon sang putokputokan sang bukid sang bukid sang Lebanon para sa akon. Pero sigurado gid nga himuon ko ikaw nga isa ka desierto, pareho sang isa ka banwa nga wala sing may nagaestar.
Padal-an ko ikaw sang mga tawo nga magaguba sa imo. Ang kada isa sa ila may mga gamit sa pagpang-utod sang imo mga haligi nga sedro, kag dayon ihaboy nila ini sa kalayo.
Ang mga tawo nga naghalin sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon nga mag-agi sa sini nga siyudad magapamangkot sa isa kag isa, ‘Ngaa ginhimo ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sining bantog nga siyudad?’
Kag amo ini ang sabat, ‘Tungod kay ginsikway nila ang kasugtanan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, kag nagsimba sila kag nag-alagad sa iban nga mga dios.’ ”
Puno na gid ang duta sang mga tawo nga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios,
Kay amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : “Ang mga pari pareho man sa mga propeta. Indi sila diosnon kag nagahimo sila sang kalautan bisan sa akon templo mismo.
Gani mangin madanlog kag madulom ang ila dalan. Magakalasandad kag magakalatumba sila, kay padal-an ko sila sang kalaglagan sa tion nga silutan ko sila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Nakita ko nga puwerte kalaot sang mga propeta sang Samaria, kay nagapanagna sila sa ngalan ni Baal kag ginpatalang nila ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Pero nakita ko nga mas malain pa gid ang mga propeta sang Jerusalem, kay nagasimba sila sa mga dios-dios kag nagabutig pa. Ginaganyat nila ang mga malain sa paghimo pa gid sang malain, gani wala sila nagabiya sa ila kalautan. Ang katawhan sang Jerusalem pareho kalaot sa katawhan sang Sodom kag Gomora.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling parte sa sini nga mga propeta: Pakan-on ko sila sang mapait nga pagkaon kag paimnon sang tubig nga may hilo; kay tungod sa ila naglapta ang kalautan sa bilog nga duta.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa katawhan sang Jerusalem, sa katawhan sang Jerusalem, “Indi kamo magpamati sa ginasiling sang sining butigon nga sining butigon nga mga propeta. Ginapasalig lang nila kamo sang indi matuod. Ang ginasugid nila sa inyo nga mga palanan-awon wala naghalin sa akon kundi halin lang sa ila hunahuna.
Amo ini ang ila ginahambal permi sa mga tawo nga nagainsulto sa akon kag nagasunod sa ila matig-a nga mga tagipusuon: ‘Mangin maayo gid ang inyo kahimtangan, siling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Wala sing malain nga matabo sa inyo.’
Pero sin-o sa sining mga propeta ang nakahibalo sa akon hunahuna? Wala gani sila nagpamati sa akon pulong ukon nagsapak sa akon ginsiling.
Pamati! Ang akon kaakig pareho sang bagyo ukon buhawi nga magahampas sa ulo sang sining sining malain nga mga tawo.
Indi gid madula ang akon kaakig hasta mahimo ko ang akon luyag nga himuon. Kag sa palaabuton nga mga inadlaw, maintiendihan ninyo ini sing maayo.
Wala ko ginpadala ini nga mga propeta, pero naglakat gihapon sila. Wala ako magpakighambal sa ila, pero nagpanagna sila.
Pero kon nahibaluan lang nila kon ano ang ara sa akon hunahuna, ginsugid kuntani nila ang akon mga pulong sa akon katawhan, para magbiya sila sa ila malain nga mga pagginawi kag mga binuhatan.
Dios ako nga ara sa bisan diin kag indi lang sa isa ka lugar.
Wala sing may makapanago sa sekreto nga mga lugar nga indi ko makita. Wala bala kamo kahibalo nga ara ako bisan diin sa langit kag sa duta? Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Nabatian ko kon ano ang ginpanghambal sang mga propeta nga nagahambal sang kabutigan sa akon ngalan. Nagasiling sila nga kuno ginhatagan ko sila sang mensahi sa damgo.
Hasta san-o pa bala sila maghambal sang kabutigan nga halin sa ila madaya nga tagipusuon?
Paagi sa pagsugid nila sang sini nga mga damgo, ginatulod nila ang akon katawhan nga kalimtan ako, subong nga ginkalimtan ako sang ila mga katigulangan paagi sa pagsimba kay Baal.
Pabay-i nga magsugid ini nga mga propeta sang ila damgo, pero atong mga propeta nga nakabati sang akon pulong dapat magsugid sini nga may katutom. Kay may kinalain ang ila damgo sa akon pulong, subong nga Kay may kinalain ang ila damgo sa akon pulong, subong nga ang dagami lain sang sa uyas.
Indi bala nga gamhanan gamhanan ang akon pulong? Pareho ini sa kalayo nga makasunog nga makasunog ukon sa martilyo nga makadugmok sang bato.
Ako mismo ang magatipon sa mga nabilin ko nga katawhan halin sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar nga sa diin ginpalapta ko sila, kag dal-on ko sila pabalik sa ila duta, kag didto magadamo gid sila.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga kontra ko ang mga propeta nga nagakuha lang sang ila mensahi halin sa iban nga mga propeta kag nagasiling nga halin kuno ina sa akon.
“ Jeremias, Jeremias, kon may magpamangkot sa imo nga pumuluyo ukon propeta ukon pari kon ano ang akon mensahi, silinga sila nga sikwayon ko sila.
Kon may propeta ukon pari ukon bisan sin-o nga magsiling nga may mensahi siya kuno halin sa akon, silutan ko ina nga tawo kag ang iya panimalay.
Mas maayo pa nga ang tagsa-tagsa magpamangkot na lang sa iya mga abyan ukon mga paryente kon ano ang akon mensahi
sang sa magsiling nga, ‘May mensahi ako halin sa Ginoo Ginoo .’ Kay ginagamit lang ini sang iban para mapapati nila ang ila isigkatawo, gani ginapatiko nila ang mga mensahi sang buhi nga Dios, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
“Jeremias, halimbawa magpamangkot ka sa isa ka propeta kon may mensahi siya halin sa akon
kag magsiling siya, ‘Huo, may mensahi ako halin sa Ginoo Ginoo .’ Dapat hambalan mo siya nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: ‘Tungod nga nagsiling ka nga may mensahi ka halin sa akon, bisan gindumilian ko ikaw sa pagmitlang sini,
kalimtan ko gid ikaw kag tabugon sa akon presensya. Kag pabay-an ko ini nga siyudad nga ginhatag ko sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Hatagan ko sila sang mga pangulo nga mag-atipan sa ila, kag indi na sila mahadlok ukon makulbaan, kag wala na sing may madula sa ila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Pakahuy-an ko gid kamo hasta san-o, nga indi gid malimtan.’ ”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magaabot ang tion nga paharion ko ang isa ka matarong nga hari nga kaliwat ni David. Magahari siya nga may kaalam, kag himuon niya ang matarong kag husto sa sini nga duta.
Amo ini ang ngalan nga itawag sa iya: ‘Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Nagahatag sa Aton sang Pagkamatarong.
“Kag sa sina man nga tion ang mga tawo indi na magsumpa nga nagasiling, ‘Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaguwa sa mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.’
Sa baylo, magasiling sila, ‘Nagasumpa ako sa buhi nga Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpaguwa sa mga kaliwat sang Israel halin sa nasyon sa north kag sa tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin ginpalapta niya sila.’ Dayon magaestar sila sa ila kaugalingon nga duta.”
Daw sa mabuka ang akon tagipusuon tungod sa butigon nga butigon nga mga propeta. Nagapalangurog ang akon mga tul-an, kag daw sa hubog ako tungod sa balaan nga mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa ila kontra sa ila .
May ginpakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon nga palanan-awon nga palanan-awon sa tapos nga ginbihag ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia si Haring Jehoyakin sang Juda, nga anak ni Jehoyakim. Gindala si Jehoyakin sa Babilonia pati ang iya mga opisyal kag ang eksperto nga mga panday kag mga trabahador. Ang nakita ko sa akon palanan-awon duha ka basket nga higos
Padal-an ko sila sang inaway, gutom, kag balatian hasta nga malaglag sila sing bug-os sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa ila kag sa ila mga katigulangan.”
Ang mga higos sa isa ka basket maayo gid kag luto, nga bag-o lang ginharvest. Pero ang mga higos sa isa ka basket kalain gid kag indi gid makaon.
Dayon nagpamangkot ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Jeremias, ano ang imo nakita?” Nagsabat ako, “Mga higos. Ang iban maayo gid, pero ang iban kalain gid kag indi gid makaon.”
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling nga kabigon ko nga pareho sa maayo nga mga higos ang mga Israelinhon nga ginpabihag ko sa mga taga-Babilonia.
Bantayan ko sila para maayo ang ila kahimtangan, kag dal-on ko sila pabalik sa sini nga duta. Pabangunon ko sila liwat kag indi paglaglagon. Palig-unon ko sila kag indi paggabuton.
Hatagan ko sila sang handom nga kilalahon nila ako nga amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Mangin katawhan ko sila, kag ako mangin ila Dios, kay magabalik sila sa akon sa bug-os nila nga tagipusuon.
“Pero kabigon ko nga pareho sa malain nga mga higos nga indi makaon si Haring Zedekia sang Juda kag ang iya mga opisyal, pati ang tanan nga Israelinhon nga nabilin nga buhi sa Jerusalem ukon sa Egypt.
Himuon ko sila nga makangilil-ad sa tanan nga ginharian sa kalibutan. Insultuhon sila kag hikayan, yagutaon kag pakamalauton sa tanan nga lugar nga sa diin tabugon ko sila.
Ini nga mensahi nga para sa katawhan sang Juda ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias sang ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoyakim nga anak ni Josia sa Juda. Ini amo ang nahauna nga tuig sang paghari ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia.
Indi na kamo magsinadya ukon magkinalipay. Indi na mabatian ang pagsinadya sang bag-ong kasal. Wala na sing may maggaling sang trigo sang trigo ukon magpasiga sang suga kon gab-i kon gab-i .
Mangin mamingaw ining bilog nga duta. Ini nga nasyon kag ang mga nasyon sa palibot sini magaalagad sa hari sang Babilonia sa sulod sang 70 ka tuig.
“Pero pagkatapos sang 70 ka tuig, silutan ko ang hari sang Babilonia kag ang iya katawhan tungod sa ila sala. Himuon ko man nga mamingaw ang ila nasyon hasta san-o.
Ipaagom ko sa ila nasyon ang tanan nga butang nga ginhambal ko kontra sa ila kag sa iban nga mga nasyon, nga ginpanghambal ni Jeremias kag nasulat sa sini nga libro.
Ulipunon sila sang madamo nga nasyon kag sang gamhanan nga mga hari. Silutan ko sila suno sa ila mga ginhimo.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel sa akon, “Kuhaa sa akon kamot ining kupa nga puno sang akon kaakig kag ipainom sa tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin ginapadala ko ikaw.
Kon makainom sila sini, magaduling-duling sila nga daw sa buang tungod sa inaway nga ipadala ko sa ila.”
Gani ginkuha ko ang kupa sa kamot sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginpainom sa tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin ginpadala niya ako.
Ginpainom ko ang Jerusalem, kag ang mga banwa sang Juda, pati ang ila mga hari kag mga opisyal, para malaglag sila. Maurungan gid ang mga tawo sa matabo sa matabo sa ila. Insultuhon sila kag pakamalauton, subong man sang ginahimo karon sa ila.
Ginpainom ko man Ginpainom ko man ang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt, ang iya mga opisyal, mga pangulo kag ang tanan niya nga katawhan,
Nagsiling si Propeta Jeremias sa tanan nga katawhan sang Juda kag sa tanan nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem:
pati ang tanan nga indi Egyptohanon nga nagaestar didto. Ginpainom ko man Ginpainom ko man ang mga hari kag mga katawhan kag mga katawhan sang masunod nga mga lugar: Uz, mga banwa sang Filistia (nga ang mga hari sini nagdumala sa Ashkelon, Gaza, Ekron, kag Ashdod),
Edom, Moab, Ammon,
Tyre, Sidon, mga lugar sa tabok sang dagat,
Dedan, Tema, Buz, mga malayo nga lugar,
Arabia, mga tribo sa desierto,
Zimri, Elam, Media,
mga lugar sa north, malayo man ukon malapit—ang tanan nga ginharian sa kalibutan. Kag ang katapusan nga ginpainom amo ang Babilonia.
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Ihambal sa sini nga mga nasyon nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling: Sige, mag-inom kamo sa kupa sang akon kaakig sa kupa sang akon kaakig hasta nga magkalahubog kamo, magsululuka, magkalatumba kag indi na makabangon pa, tungod kay padal-an ko kamo sang inaway.
“Pero kon indi gani sila mag-inom, silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling: Kinahanglan nga mag-inom kamo!
Tan-awa ninyo! Ginasuguran ko na ang pagpadala sang kalaglagan sa Jerusalem, ang siyudad nga akon ginpili para padunggan ako. Karon nagahunahuna bala kamo nga indi ko kamo pagsilutan? Silutan ko gid kamo! Kay paawayon ko ang tanan nga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.
Sa sulod sang 23 ka tuig—halin sang ika-13 nga tuig sang paghari ni Josia nga anak ni Amon sa Juda hasta subong—nagapakighambal ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon. Kag padayon ko nga ginasugid sa inyo ang iya ginasiling, pero wala gid kamo magpamati.
“Jeremias, isugid sa ila ang tanan ko nga ginsiling, kag silinga sila: Magangurob ang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa langit; ang iya tingog magadaguob halin sa iya balaan nga puluy-an. Magangurob siya sing mabaskog sa iya katawhan. Magasinggit siya sa tanan nga nagaestar sa kalibutan pareho sang tawo nga nagasinggit samtang nagalinas sang ubas sang ubas .
Ang iya tingog mabatian hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan, kay iakusar niya ang mga nasyon. Sentensyahan niya ang tanan nga katawhan, kag pamatyon ang mga malain sa inaway. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom: “Mag-andam kamo! Ang kalaglagan magaabot sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon pareho sang mabaskog nga bagyo nga halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan.”
Sa sina nga adlaw madamo ang pamatyon sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa bagay nga ang mga bangkay magalalapta sa punta kag punta sang kalibutan. Wala gid sing may magpangasubo ukon magtipon ukon maglubong sa ila. Pabay-an lang Pabay-an lang sila pareho sang mga ipot sa palahalban.
Kamo nga mga pangulo, maghibi kamo sing tudo kag magligid sa yab-ok sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo . Kay nag-abot na ang tion sa pagpatay sa inyo pareho sang pag-ihaw sang karnero. Malaglag kamo pareho sang espesyal nga kolon nga nabuka.
Wala gid kamo sing lugar nga mapalagyuhan ukon madalaganan.
Mabatian ang inyo mga paghibi kag pag-ugayong, kay ginlaglag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo katawhan.
Ang mabuganaon nga palahalban mangin desierto tungod sa puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pareho siya sang leon nga nagguwa sa iya palanaguan sa pagpangita sang tulukbon sa pagpangita sang tulukbon . Mangin mamingaw ang inyo duta tungod sa pagsalakay sang kaaway, kag tungod sa puwerte nga kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag bisan padayon nga ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo ang tanan niya nga alagad nga mga propeta, wala gihapon kamo magsapak ukon magpamati.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo paagi sa sini nga mga propeta ang Ginoo Ginoo paagi sa sini nga mga propeta , “Magbiya na kamo sa inyo malain nga pagginawi kag mga binuhatan para padayon kamo nga makaestar hasta san-o sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa inyo kag sa inyo mga katigulangan.
Indi kamo mag-alagad kag magsimba sa mga dios-dios. Indi ninyo ako pagpaakiga sa mga dios-dios nga inyo lang ginhimo, para indi ko kamo pagsilutan.”
Pero wala gid kamo magpamati sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpaakig gid ninyo siya paagi sa inyo ginhimo nga mga dios-dios. Gani kamo mismo ang nagdala sang silot sa inyo kaugalingon.
Gani amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom: “Tungod wala kamo magpamati sa akon mga mensahi,
ipasalakay ko kamo sa mga katawhan sa north nga ginapanguluhan sang akon suluguon nga si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia. Salakayon nila ini nga duta kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, pati ang tanan nga nasyon sa palibot sini. Laglagon ko kamo sing bug-os, kag maurungan gid ang mga tawo sa matabo sa matabo sa inyo kag insultuhon nila kamo. Huo, malaglag gid kamo hasta san-o.
Sang mabatian ini sang mga opisyal sang Juda, naghalin sila sa palasyo kag nagkadto sa templo. Nagpungko sila didto sa alagyan sang Bag-o nga Puwertahan sang templo sa paghukom sa paghukom .
Dayon nagsiling ang mga pari kag mga propeta sa mga opisyal kag sa tanan nga tawo didto didto , “Ini nga tawo dapat nga sentensyahan sang kamatayon tungod kay naghambal siya kontra sa sini nga siyudad. Kamo mismo ang nakabati sa iya!”
Nagsiling si Jeremias sa tanan nga opisyal kag sa tanan nga tawo didto didto : “Ginpadala ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sa paghambal kontra sa sini nga templo kag siyudad, pareho sang inyo nabatian.
Gani magbag-o na kamo sa inyo pagginawi kag pamatasan, kag magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Kay kon himuon ninyo ina, indi pagpadayunon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang kalaglagan nga iya ginsiling kontra sa inyo.
Kon parte sa akon, wala ako sing may mahimo. Himua ninyo sa akon kon ano ang maayo kag husto para sa inyo.
Pero tandai ninyo ini: kon patyon ninyo ako, may salabton kamo kag ang mga tawo sa sini nga siyudad tungod sa inyo pagpatay sa tawo nga wala sing sala, kay sa pagkamatuod ginpadala ako sang Ginoo Ginoo sa paghambal sining tanan nga butang nga inyo nabatian subong.”
Dayon nagsiling ang mga opisyal kag ang mga tawo sa mga pari kag mga propeta, “Ini nga tawo indi dapat sentensyahan sang kamatayon, kay naghambal siya sa aton sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios.”
May pila ka manugdumala nga nagtindog sa atubangan kag nagsiling sa bilog nga komunidad,
“Sang si Hezekia ang hari sang Juda, si Micas nga taga-Moreshet nagsugid sang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga katawhan sang Juda. Siling niya, Siling niya, ‘Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga pagalaglagon pagalaglagon ang Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem. Mangin pareho ini sa gin-arado nga uma, kag mangin tinumpukan sang mga nagkalaguba. Kag mangin kagulangan ang bukid nga ginatindugan sang templo.’
Ginpatay bala siya ni Hezekia ukon sang bisan sin-o sa Juda? Wala! Sa baylo, nagtahod si Hezekia sa Ginoo Ginoo kag nagdangop sa iya. Gani wala pagpadayuna sang Ginoo Ginoo ang kalaglagan nga iya ginsiling kontra sa ila. Karon, kon patyon ninyo si Jeremias, Karon, kon patyon ninyo si Jeremias, kamo mismo ang magadala sang grabe nga silot sa inyo kaugalingon.”
Sadto nga tion, may isa man ka tawo nga nagasugid sang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ang iya ngalan si Uria nga anak ni Shemaya nga taga-Kiriat Jearim. Naghambal man siya kontra sa sini nga siyudad kag nasyon pareho sang ginsiling ni Jeremias.
Sang mabatian ni Haring Jehoyakim kag sang tanan niya nga mga opisyal kag mga pangulo ang ginsiling ni Uria, gintinguhaan nila nga patyon siya. Pero nabalitaan ini ni Uria, gani nagpalagyo siya sa Egypt tungod sa kahadlok.
Pero ginsugo ni Haring Jehoyakim si Elnatan nga anak ni Acbor kag ang iban pa nga mga tawo sa pagkadto sa Egypt.
Ginkuha nila si Uria didto kag gindala kay Haring Jehoyakim, kag ginpapatay siya ni Haring Jehoyakim paagi sa espada kag ginpahaboy ang iya bangkay sa pampubliko nga lulubngan.
Pero si Jeremias ya ginbuligan ni Ahikam nga anak ni Shafan, gani wala siya gintugyan sa mga tawo para patyon.
Basi pa lang mamati sila sa imo kag magbiya sa ila malain nga pagginawi. Kon himuon nila ina, indi ko pagpadayunon ang kalaglagan nga ginplano ko nga himuon sa ila tungod sa ila malain nga mga ginahimo.
Silinga sila nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: Kon indi kamo magpamati sa akon kag magtuman sa akon kasuguan nga ginhatag ko sa inyo,
kag kon indi kamo magpamati sa ginasiling sang akon mga alagad nga mga propeta, nga permi ko ginapadala sa inyo pero wala ninyo ginapamatii,
laglagon ko ini nga templo, subong nga ginlaglag ko ang Shilo. Kag ini nga siyudad pakamalauton sang tanan nga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan.”
Ang mga pari, mga propeta, kag ang tanan nga tawo nakabati sining mga ginhambal ni Jeremias sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero pagkatapos hambal ni Jeremias sini, ginpalibutan siya sang mga pari, mga propeta kag mga tawo, kag ginsilingan, “Dapat ka nga mapatay!
Ngaa nagsiling ka sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ining templo laglagon pareho sang Shilo, kag ining siyudad mangin mamingaw kag indi na pag-estaran?” Gani gindakop nila si Jeremias didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kabutigan ang ila ginasiling sa inyo. Kag kon patihan ninyo, pahalinon ko kamo sa inyo duta. Tabugon ko kamo kag laglagon.
Pero ang nasyon nga magpasakop kag mag-alagad sa hari sang Babilonia magapabilin sa ila kaugalingon nga duta, kag magapadayon sila sa pag-estar dira kag sa pagpanguma. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Amo man nga mensahi ang ginsiling ko kay Haring Zedekia sang Juda. Nagsiling ako, “Magpasakop kamo sa hari sang Babilonia. Mag-alagad kamo sa iya kag sa iya katawhan kag magakabuhi kamo.
Kay kon indi, ikaw kag ang imo katawhan mapatay sa inaway, sa gutom, kag sa balatian, pareho sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga matabo sa nasyon nga indi mag-alagad sa hari sang Babilonia.
Indi kamo magpamati sa ginasiling sang mga propeta nga indi kamo pagsakupon sang hari sang Babilonia, kay kabutigan ang ila ginasiling sa inyo.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : ‘Wala ko ginpadala ina nga mga propeta. Nagahambal sila sing butig sa akon ngalan. Gani kon magpati kamo sa ila, tabugon ko kamo kag laglagon, pati ang ina nga mga propeta.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling ako sa mga pari kag sa tanan nga tawo, “Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi kamo magpamati sa mga propeta nga nagasiling nga sa indi madugay ibalik na ang mga kagamitan sang templo halin sa Babilonia. Kabutigan ang ila ginasiling sa inyo.
Indi kamo magpamati sa ila, kundi mag-alagad kamo sa hari sang Babilonia, kag magakabuhi kamo. Indi na lang kuntani malaglag ini nga siyudad!
Kon matuod nga mga propeta sila kag ang ila ginahambal halin sa Ginoo Ginoo , magpakitluoy sila sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga ang mga kagamitan nga nabilin sa templo, sa palasyo sang hari sang Juda, kag sa Jerusalem indi na pagdal-on sa Babilonia.
Kay nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga ang saway nga saway nga mga haligi sang templo, sang templo, ang suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag nga suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag nga Dagat, mga karo nga ginagamit sa paghakot sang tubig, kag ang iban pa nga mga kagamitan sa sini nga siyudad pagadal-on sa Babilonia pagadal-on sa Babilonia .
Ini nga mga kagamitan wala ginpangdala ni Haring Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia sang ginbihag niya halin sa Jerusalem si Haring Jehoyakin sang Juda nga anak ni Jehoyakim, kaupod ang mga opisyal sang Juda kag Jerusalem.
Dayon isugid ini nga mensahi sa mga hari sang Edom, Moab, Ammon, Tyre, kag Sidon paagi sa ila mga embahador nga nagkadto sa Jerusalem sa pagpakigkita kay Haring Zedekia sang Juda.
Ihatag sa ila ini nga mensahi para sa ila mga hari: ‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel:
Paagi sa akon puwerte nga gahom gintuga ko ang kalibutan, ang mga katawhan, kag ang mga kasapatan, kag pagusto ako kon sin-o ang akon padumalahon sini.
Gani karon itugyan ko ang inyo mga nasyon sa akon alagad nga si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia. Bisan ang talunon nga mga sapat ipasakop ko sa iya pagdumala.
Magaalagad ang tanan nga nasyon sa iya, sa iya anak, kag sa iya apo, hasta sa tion nga malaglag ang Babilonia. Kag sa sina nga tion, ang Babilonia naman ang magaalagad sa madamo nga nasyon kag sa gamhanan nga mga hari.
“ ‘Pero kon may nasyon ukon ginharian nga indi mag-alagad ukon magpasakop kay Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia, silutan ko ina nga nasyon paagi sa inaway, gutom, kag balatian hasta nga mapasakop ko sila kay Nebucadnezar. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Gani indi kamo magpamati sa inyo mga propeta, mga manugpakot, mga nagapaathag sang kahulugan sang mga damgo, mga manugbabaylan ukon espiritista, nga nagasiling nga indi kamo pagsakupon sang hari sang Babilonia.
Sa amo gihapon nga tuig, sa ikalima nga bulan sang ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia sa Juda, may ginsiling sa akon si Propeta Hanania nga anak ni Azur nga taga-Gibeon. Natabo ini didto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , sa atubangan sang mga pari kag sang tanan nga tawo didto. Siling niya,
Dayon ginkuha ni Propeta Hanania ang gota sa liog ni Jeremias kag ginbali ini.
Nagsiling dayon siya sa mga tawo didto: “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Ang mga nasyon nga ginsakop ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia daw pareho lang nga gintakdan niya sang gota. Pero gub-on ko ang gota sa sulod sang duha ka tuig.” Dayon naglakat si Jeremias.
Wala madugay, pagkatapos nga ginbali ni Propeta Hanania ang gota sa liog ni Jeremias, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
“Lakat, silinga si Hanania nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling: Ginbali mo ang gota nga kahoy pero ilisan ko ini sang gota nga salsalon.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel nagasiling: Ipapas-an ko ining gota nga salsalon sa tanan nga nasyon, para mag-alagad sila kay Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia. Bisan ang talunon nga mga sapat ipasakop ko sa iya pagdumala.”
Dayon nagsiling si Propeta Jeremias kay Propeta Hanania, “Hanania, pamati! Ang Ginoo Ginoo wala nagpadala sa imo, pero ginapapati mo ini nga nasyon sang kabutigan.
Gani amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Dulaon ko ikaw sa kalibutan. Karon mismo nga tuig mapatay ka kay gintudluan mo ang mga tawo nga magrebelde sa akon.”
Kag sang ikapito nga bulan sadto nga tuig, napatay si Propeta Hanania.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: Dulaon ko na ang gahom sang hari sang Babilonia.
Sa sulod sang duha ka tuig ibalik ko sa sini nga lugar ang tanan nga kagamitan sang akon templo nga ginpanguha ni Haring Nebucadnezar kag gindala sa Babilonia.
Pabalikon ko man diri si Haring Jehoyakin sang Juda nga anak ni Jehoyakim, kag ang tanan nga taga-Juda nga ginbihag sa Babilonia, kay dulaon ko na ang gahom sang hari sang Babilonia. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Dayon nagsabat si Propeta Jeremias kay Propeta Hanania didto sa atubangan sang mga pari kag sang mga tawo nga nagatindog sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling siya, “Amen! Kabay pa nga himuon ina sang Ginoo Ginoo ! Kabay pa nga tumanon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang imo ginsiling nga dal-on niya pabalik diri ang mga kagamitan sang templo kag ang tanan nga ginbihag sa Babilonia.
Pero pamatii ining akon isiling sa imo kag sa tanan nga tawo nga nagapamati.
Ang mga propeta nga nahauna sa aton nagpanagna sadto nga may magaabot nga inaway, gutom kag balatian sa madamo nga nasyon kag sa gamhanan nga mga ginharian.
Ang propeta nga magpanagna sang kalinong dapat pamatud-an. Kon matabo ang iya ginsiling, kilalahon siya nga matuod nga ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Didto sa Jerusalem, nagsulat si Jeremias para sa mga manugdumala, mga pari, mga propeta, kag sa iban pa nga ginbihag ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia halin sa Jerusalem.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga pagkatapos sang 70 ka tuig nga pagpanakop sang Babilonia, balikan ko kamo kag tumanon ko ang akon ginpromisa nga dal-on kamo pabalik sa inyo nga lugar.
Nahibaluan ko kon paano ko tumanon ang akon mga plano para sa inyo—plano sa pagpauswag sa inyo kag indi sa paghalit, plano sa paghatag sa inyo sang paglaom nga may maayo kamo nga palaabuton.
Dayon magapanawag kamo kag magapangamuyo sa akon, kag pamatian ko kamo.
Kon magadangop kamo sa akon sing tinagipusuon, buligan ko kamo.
Huo, buligan ko gid kamo kag pabalikon ko kamo sa inyo duta halin sa pagkabihag.
“Basi masiling kamo nga ginpadal-an ko kamo sang mga propeta dira sa Babilonia.
Pero amo ini ang ginasiling ko parte sa hari nga naghalin sa kaliwat ni David kag sa tanan ninyo nga mga kasimanwa nga nabilin sa siyudad sang Jerusalem, sang Jerusalem, nga wala mabihag kaupod ninyo:
Padal-an ko sila sang inaway, gutom kag balatian. Mangin pareho sila sa dunot nga higos nga indi gid makaon.
Huo, lagson ko sila sang inaway, gutom kag balatian, kag mangin makangilil-ad sila sa tanan nga ginharian. Tabugon ko sila sa bisan diin nga nasyon, kag didto pakamalauton sila, kangil-aran, insultuhon, kag yagutaon.
Kay wala sila magpamati sa akon mga pulong nga permi ko ginahambal sa ila paagi sa akon mga alagad nga mga propeta. Kag bisan kamo nga mga ginbihag wala man magpamati. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginsulat niya ini Ginsulat niya ini pagkatapos nga ginbihag si Haring Jehoyakin, ang iya iloy, ang mga opisyal sang palasyo, ang mga pangulo sang Juda kag Jerusalem, kag ang eksperto nga mga panday kag mga trabahador.
Gani pamati kamo sa ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , kamo nga mga ginpabihag niya halin sa Jerusalem pa-Babilonia.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, parte kay Ahab nga anak ni Kolaya kag kay Zedekia nga anak ni Maasea, “Ini nga mga tawo nagasugid sa inyo sang kabutigan sa akon ngalan. Gani itugyan ko sila kay Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag ipapatay niya sila sa inyo mismo atubangan.
Ang ila dangatan gamiton sang mga taga-Juda nga ginbihag sa Babilonia sa pagpakamalaot sa iban. Magasiling sila, ‘Kabay pa nga patyon ka sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho kay Zedekia kag kay Ahab nga ginsunog sang hari sang Babilonia.’
Matabo ini sa ila kay nakahimo sila sang makahuluya nga butang sa Israel. Nagpanginbabayi sila sa asawa sang iban kag naghambal sang kabutigan sa akon ngalan, nga wala ko gid ginsugo nga himuon nila. Nahibaluan ko gid ining ila mga ginhimo kag makapamatuod ako kontra sa ila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginsugo ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ihambal ini nga mensahi kay Shemaya nga taga-Nehelam:
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: Nagpadala ka sang sulat sa imo lang awtoridad kay Zefanias nga anak ni Maasea nga pari, kag nagpadala ka sang mga kopya sa iban pa nga mga pari, kag sa tanan nga katawhan sang Jerusalem. Amo ini ang imo sulat kay Zefanias,
‘Ginpili ka sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagbulos kay Jehoyada bilang pari nga manugdumala sang templo. Katungdanan mo ang pagdakop kag pagkadena sa kay bisan sin-o nga buang-buang nga nagapakapropeta.
Ti ngaa wala mo pagtapnaa si Jeremias nga taga-Anatot, nga nagapakapropeta dira sa inyo?
Nagsulat pa gani siya sa amon diri sa Babilonia nga madugay pa kami kuno diri. Suno sa iya, magpatindog kami sang mga balay kag diri mag-estar, kag magpananom kag magkaon sang amon patubas.’ ”
Sang mabaton ni Zefanias nga pari ang sulat ni Shemaya, ginbasa niya ini kay Propeta Jeremias.
Ginhatag ni Jeremias ang sulat kay Elasa nga anak ni Shafan kag kay Gemaria nga anak ni Hilkia. Ini sila ginpadala ni Haring Zedekia sang Juda kay Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia. Amo ini ang iya sulat:
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
“Ipadala ining akon mensahi sa tanan nga ginbihag. Silinga sila nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling parte kay Shemaya nga taga-Nehelam: Wala ko ginpadala si Shemaya nga maghambal sa inyo. Ginpapati niya kamo sa iya kabutigan.
Gani ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga silutan ko gid siya kag ang iya mga kaliwat. Wala gid sing bisan isa sa iya mga kaliwat nga mabilin ukon makakita sang maayo nga mga butang nga akon pagahimuon sa inyo, kay gintudluan niya kamo nga magrebelde sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, sa tanan nga taga-Jerusalem nga iya ginpabihag sa Babilonia:
“Magpatindog kamo sang mga balay kag dira mag-estar. Magpananom kamo kag magkaon sang inyo patubas.
Magpangasawa kag magpamana kamo, kag magpamata. Paasawaha ukon papamanaha man ninyo ang inyo mga anak para magpamata man sila. Magmuad kag magdamo kamo.
Buligi ninyo nga magmaayo kag magmainuswagon ang siyudad nga sa diin ginpabihag ko kamo. Pangamuyui ninyo ini, kay kon mag-uswag ini, mag-uswag man kamo.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: “Indi kamo magpatalang sa mga propeta ukon sa mga manugpakot nga kaupod ninyo. Indi man kamo magpamati sa ila mga damgo,
kay nagasugid sila sang kabutigan sa akon ngalan. Wala ko sila ginpadala.
“Gani indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magpakulba, kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob nga akon alagad. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga kuhaon ko gid kamo dira sa malayo nga lugar nga sa diin ginbihag kamo. Dayon magakabuhi kamo nga may kalinong. Indi na kamo maano kag wala na sing may magpahadlok sa inyo.
Kay kaupod ninyo ako kag luwason ko kamo. Laglagon ko sing bug-os ang tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin ginpalapta ko kamo, pero indi ko ini paghimuon sa inyo. Pero wala nagakahulugan nga indi ko na kamo pagsilutan. Disiplinahon ko kamo sing nagakaigo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginkalimtan na kamo sang inyo kadampig nga mga nasyon; wala na sila nagasapak sa inyo. Ginsalakay ko kamo pareho sang pagsalakay sang kaaway. Puwerte gid ang akon pagsilot sa inyo tungod kay grabe ang inyo mga sala kag puwerte kadamo.
Ngaa nagareklamo kamo nga ang inyo pilas wala nagaayo? Ginhimo ko ina sa inyo tungod kay grabe ang inyo mga sala kag puwerte kadamo.
“Pero ang tanan nga maglaglag sa inyo laglagon man; ang tanan ninyo nga mga kaaway pagabihagon. Ang tanan nga nagsalakay kag nagpanguha sang inyo mga pagkabutang salakayon kag panguhaon man ang ila mga pagkabutang.
Pero kamo ayuhon ko, kag bulngon ko ang inyo mga pilas, tungod kay nagasiling ang iban nga kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pabalikon ko ang mga kaliwat ni ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob sa ila mga banwa halin sa pagkabihag.
Dayon magakanta sila sang mga pagpasalamat kag magahinugyaw sa kalipay. Padamuon ko sila kag padunggan.
Ang ila mga kabataan magauswag pareho sang una. Palig-unon ko sila sa akon presensya, kag silutan ko ang bisan sin-o nga magdaogdaog sa ila.
Ang ila pangulo magahalin mismo sa ila. Papalapiton ko siya sa akon, kag magapalapit siya. Kay wala sing tawo nga mangahas nga magpalapit sa akon kon indi ko papalapiton. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga
mangin katawhan ko sila kag ako mangin ila Dios.”
Pamati! Ang kaakig sang Ginoo Ginoo pareho sang bagyo ukon buhawi nga magahampas sa ulo sang malain nga mga tawo.
Indi gid madula ang iya puwerte nga kaakig hasta mahimo niya ang iya luyag nga himuon. Kag sa ulihi maintiendihan ninyo ini.
Kay magaabot ang tion nga pabalikon ko ang akon katawhan nga taga-Israel kag taga-Juda sa ila duta halin sa pagkabihag.
Karon may pamangkot ako sa inyo. Makabata bala ang mga lalaki? Ti, ngaa nakita ko ang mga lalaki nga nagapalanglapsi kag nagauyat sa ila tiyan pareho sang babayi nga nagapasakit?
Daw ano ka makahaladlok ang ina nga adlaw kon mag-abot na! Wala gid sing may makapareho sa sina nga adlaw. Tion ina sang kalisod sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob, pero sa ulihi maluwas sila sa sina nga kahimtangan.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling nga sa sina nga tion, indi na sila pag-ulipunon sang mga taga-iban nga lugar. Daw pareho lang nga balion ko ang gota sa ila mga liog kag panghukson ang ila mga kadena.
Magaalagad na sila sa akon, ang akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, kag sa ila hari nga kaliwat ni kaliwat ni David nga akon ipadala sa ila.
Nagpadayon ang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagsiling, “Sa sina nga tion, mangin Dios ako sang tanan nga pamilya sang Israel, kag mangin katawhan ko sila.
“O mga nasyon, pamatii ninyo ang akon ginasiling, kag isugid ini sa malayo nga mga lugar: Ginpalapta ko ang mga Israelinhon, pero tipunon ko sila, kag bantayan ko sila pareho sang manugbantay sang mga karnero.
Luwason ko sila nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob sa kamot sang mga tawo nga mas gamhanan sang sa ila.
Magakadto sila sa Bukid sang Zion kag magahinugyaw sa kalipay. Magakalipay sila tungod sa mga pagpakamaayo ko sa ila. Mangin bugana ang ila uyas, duga sang ubas, lana, kag mga kasapatan. Mangin pareho sila sa katamnan nga permi ginabunyagan, kag indi na gid sila magkasubo pa.
Magasaot sa kalipay ang ila mga dalaga kag mga soltero pati ang mga tigulang. Bayluhan ko ang ila paghinibi sang kalipay. Imbes nga magpangasubo sila, lipayon ko sila.
Hatagan ko ang mga pari sang bugana nga mga halad. Pun-on ko ang akon katawhan sang mga pagpakamaayo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagpadayon pa gid sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “May nabatian nga paghinibi kag pagpanalambiton sa Rama. Nagahibi si Raquel tungod sa iya mga kabataan. Nagahibi siya kag indi na gid maulo-ulohan tungod kay ang iya mga kabataan nagkalamatay.”
Pero karon nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Indi ka na maghibi kay balusan ko ikaw sa imo mga binuhatan. Magabalik ang imo mga anak halin sa duta sang mga kaaway.
Gani may paglaom sa imo palaabuton. Kay magabalik gid ang imo mga anak sa ila kaugalingon nga duta. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nabatian ko gid ang paghilibion sang mga taga-Efraim. Nagasiling sila, “ O Ginoo , O Ginoo Ginoo , pareho kami sang bataon nga baka nga wala maanad sang gota, pero gintudluan mo kami nga magtuman sa imo. Ikaw ang Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, gani ibalik kami sa amon duta.
Nagbiya kami sadto sa imo, pero karon nagahinulsol na kami. Sang nakamarasmas kami nga nakasala kami ginpukpok namon ang amon dughan sa paghinulsol sa paghinulsol . Nahuya gid kami sa amon mga ginhimo sang bataon pa kami.”
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga tatapon ko ang mga nagkalabilin sa ila nga buhi sa inaway samtang nagapanglakaton sila sa kamingawan. Magabalik ako sa paghatag sang kapahuwayan sa Israel.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “ Kamo katawhan sang Kamo katawhan sang Efraim akon gid pinalangga nga anak. Bisan permi ako nagahambal kontra sa inyo, palangga ko gihapon kamo. Ginakahidlawan ko kamo kag naluoy gid ako sa inyo.
“Magbutang kamo sang mga tanda sa dalan. Tandai ninyo sing maayo ang dalan nga inyo ginaagyan kay diri man kamo magaagi sa inyo pagbalik kay diri man kamo magaagi sa inyo pagbalik . O Israel nga pareho sa isa ka birhen nga babayi, magbalik na kamo sa inyo mga banwa.
San-o pa kamo mabalik sa akon, O mga anak ko nga nagtalang. Magahimo ako sang bag-o nga butang sa kalibutan, pareho bala nga ang babayi amo na ang nagapangaluyag
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, “Kon pabalikon ko na ang katawhan sang Juda sa ila duta halin sa pagkabihag,
Magaestar ang mga tawo sa Juda kag sa mga banwa sini, pati ang mga mangunguma kag ang mga bakiro.
Kay papahuwayon ko ang mga ginakapoy kag busgon ko ang tanan nga nagakaluya sa kagutom. Gani magasiling sila, Gani magasiling sila,
‘Nakabugtaw ako, kag manami gid ang akon tulog.’ ”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magaabot ang tion nga padamuon ko ang katawhan sang Israel kag Juda pati ang ila mga kasapatan.
Sang una ginsiguro ko gid nga magabot sila, marumpag, mawasak, kag malaglag, pero sa ulihi tukuron kag patindugon ko sila liwat. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Sa sina nga tion ang mga tawo indi na magsiling nga, ‘Nagkaon ang ginikanan sang maaslom nga ubas, kag ang kaaslom sini matilawan sang ila mga kabataan.’
Sa baylo, kon sin-o ang nagkaon sang maaslom nga ubas, siya lang mismo ang makatilaw sang kaaslom sini. Ang tawo lang nga nakasala amo ang mapatay.”
Nagpadayon pa gid sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magaabot ang tion nga magahimo ako sang bag-o nga kasugtanan sa katawhan sang Israel kag sang Juda,
kag ini kag ini indi na pareho sang una nga una nga kasugtanan nga akon ginhimo sa ila mga katigulangan sadtong gintuytuyan ko sila paguwa sa Egypt. Bisan tuod pareho ako sang bana sa ila, wala gid sila magtuman sang akon una nga una nga kasugtanan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ang bag-o nga bag-o nga kasugtanan nga akon himuon sa katawhan sang Israel sa palaabuton nga mga inadlaw amo ini: Ibutang ko ang akon mga sugo sa ila hunahuna, kag isulat ko ini sa ila tagipusuon. Ako mangin ila Dios, kag sila mangin akon katawhan.
Wala na sing may magsiling pa sa iya kasimanwa ukon sa iya utod nga dapat kilalahon niya ang Ginoo Ginoo . Tungod kay sila tanan magakilala sa akon, halin sa pinakakubos hasta sa pinakadungganon. Kay patawaron ko sila sa ila mga malain nga nahimo, kag indi ko na pagdumdumon ang ila mga sala. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ako amo ang nagamando sa adlaw nga magsanag kon adlaw, kag sa bulan kag mga bituon nga magsanag kon gab-i. Kag ako ang nagalabugay sa dagat kag nagapalinagumba sang mga balod. Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom ang akon ngalan.
Samtang nagapabilin ang langit kag ang kalibutan, magapabilin man ang katawhan sang Israel hasta san-o.
Subong nga indi matakos ang langit kag indi matungkad ang pundasyon sang kalibutan, indi ko man mahimo nga sikwayon ang tanan nga kaliwat sang Israel tungod sa mga sala nga mga sala nga ila ginhimo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magaabot ang tion nga ang siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem pagatukuron liwat halin sa Tore ni Hananel pakadto sa Pamusod nga Puwertahan.
Halin sa sina nga mga lugar, ang border magapadayon sa bukid sang Gareb dayon paliko sa Goa.
Patindugon ko kamo liwat, O katawhan sang Israel nga pareho sa isa ka birhen nga babayi. Sa liwat magasaot kamo sa kalipay nga nagatukar sang inyo mga tamborin.
Ang bilog nga pulopatag nga ginahabuyan sang mga bangkay kag mga basura, mangin balaan para sa akon, kag pati man ang tanan nga uma sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig sa east kag hasta sa Puwertahan sang mga Kabayo. Indi na gid malaglag ukon maguba liwat ang ini nga siyudad.”
Magatanom kamo liwat sang mga ubas sa mga bukid sang Samaria, kag magapulos sa mga bunga sini.
Magaabot ang tion nga ang mga manugbantay didto sa mga bukid sang Efraim magasinggit, ‘Dali kamo, mataklad kita sa Jerusalem
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magkanta kamo kag maghinugyaw sa kalipay para sa Israel,
Pamati! Ako mismo ang magakuha kag magatipon sa ila halin sa duta sa north kag sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan. Pati ang mga bulag kag mga piang magaupod sa ila, subong man ang mga nagabulusong kag ang mga manugbata. Isa ka dako nga grupo ang magapauli.
Magahibi sila kag magapangamuyo samtang ginadala ko sila puli. Dal-on ko sila sa mga ililigan sang tubig, kag magaagi sila sa maayo nga dalan nga indi sila makasandad. Kay ako ang amay sang Israel, kag si Efraim
May ginhambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias sang ika-10 nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia sa Juda, nga amo ang ika-18 nga tuig sang paghari ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia.
Ginpirmahan ko kag ginselyuhan ang papeles sa pagbakal sa atubangan sang mga saksi. Ginkilo ko dayon ang pilak kag ginbayad kay Hanamel kay Hanamel .
Dayon ginkuha ko ang papeles nga naselyuhan kag ang kopya sini nga wala naselyuhan, nga sa diin nasulat ang mga kasugtanan sang pagbakal.
Kag ginhatag ko ini kay Baruc nga anak ni Neria kag apo ni Masea, sa presensya ni Hanamel kag sang mga saksi nga nagpirma sang sini nga papeles, kag sa presensya sang tanan nga Judio nga nagapungko didto sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya.
“Kag sa atubangan nila ginsilingan ko si Baruc,
‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: Kuhaa inang papeles nga naselyuhan kag ang wala naselyuhan, kag isulod ini sa bulobanga para mapreserbar ini sa malawig nga panahon.
Kay magaabot ang tion nga magaangkon liwat sang mga pagkabutang Kay magaabot ang tion nga magaangkon liwat sang mga pagkabutang ang mga tawo sa sini nga lugar. Magabinaklanay sila sang mga balay, mga uma, kag mga talamnan sang ubas. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Pagkatapos ko hatag sang papeles kay Baruc nga anak ni Neria, amo ini ang akon pangamuyo:
“O Ginoong Dios Dios , gintuga mo ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan paagi sa imo puwerte nga gahom. Wala gid sing butang nga indi mo mahimo.
Ginapakita mo ang imo gugma sa madamo nga henerasyon, pero ginasilutan mo man ang mga anak tungod sa sala sang ila mga ginikanan. Daw ano ikaw ka makagagahom nga Dios, nga ang ngalan Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Maayo gid ang imo mga plano kag makatilingala ang imo mga binuhatan. Makita mo ang tanan nga ginahimo sang mga tawo, kag ginabalusan mo sila suno sa ila pagginawi kag mga binuhatan.
Sadto nga tion, ginapalibutan sang mga soldado sang Babilonia ang Jerusalem, kag si Propeta Jeremias napriso sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya sa palasyo sang hari sang Juda.
Naghimo ka sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang didto sa Egypt kag ginapadayon mo ini hasta subong diri sa Israel kag sa iban nga mga nasyon. Kag paagi sini nangin bantog ka sa gihapon.
Paagi sa mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang, kag sa imo gahom nga nakapahadlok sa mga Egyptohanon, ginpaguwa mo ang imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.
Ginhatag mo sa ila ining maayo kag mapatubason nga duta
Ginpanag-iyahan nila ini, pero wala sila magtuman sa imo ukon magsunod sa imo kasuguan. Wala sila maghimo sang imo ginpahimo sa ila. Gani ginpadal-an mo sila sang kalaglagan.
Kag karon nagatumpok ang mga taga-Babilonia sang duta sa kilid sang pader sang Jerusalem para mataklas nila ini kag mataklas nila ini kag maagaw ang siyudad. Kag tungod sa inaway, gutom, kag balatian, maagaw sang mga taga-Babilonia ang siyudad suno gid sa imo ginsiling.
Pero sa pihak sini, O Ginoong Dios Dios , ginsugo mo ako sa pagbakal sang uma sa atubangan sang mga saksi, bisan madali na lang maagaw sang mga taga-Babilonia ang ini nga siyudad.”
“Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang tanan nga katawhan. May butang bala nga indi ko mahimo?
Gani, itugyan ko ini nga siyudad sa mga taga-Babilonia kag sa ila hari nga si Nebucadnezar, kag maagaw nila ini.
Sunugon nila ini, pati ang mga balay nga ang mga atop sini ginasunugan sang mga insenso kay Baal kag ginahalaran sang halad nga ilimnon para sa iban nga mga dios, nga nakapaakig gid sa akon.
Ginpapriso siya ni Haring Zedekia tungod sa iya ginhambal. Kay nagsiling si Jeremias, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Itugyan ko ini nga siyudad sa hari sang Babilonia, kag maagaw niya ini.
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga halin pa gid sang una, wala sing iban nga ginahimo ang katawhan sang Israel kag Juda kundi puro lang pagpakasala. Ginpaakig nila ako paagi sa ila mga ginpanghimo.
Halin sang pagtukod sang sini nga siyudad hasta subong, ginapaakig ako sang mga pumuluyo sini. Gani laglagon ko gid ini.
Ginapaakig ako sang katawhan sang Israel kag Juda tungod sa tanan nga malain nga ila ginahimo— tanan gid sila tanan gid sila : ang ila mga hari kag mga opisyal, ang ila mga pari kag mga propeta, kag ang katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem.
Nagtalikod sila sa akon bisan sige-sige ang akon pagtudlo sa ila. Indi sila magpamati kag indi gusto tudluan.
Gindagtaan nila ang templo nga akon ginpili nga lugar para padunggan ako paagi sa pagbutang sang makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios didto.
Nagpatindog sila sang mga simbahan para kay Baal didto sa Pulopatag sang Ben Hinom, kag didto man nila ginahalad ang ila mga anak kay Molek. Wala gid ako magsugo sini sa ila; wala gani ini magsulod sa akon hunahuna nga himuon nila ining makangilil-ad nga mga butang nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang katawhan sang Juda.
“Nagasiling kamo nga paagi sa inaway, gutom, kag balatian itugyan ini nga siyudad sa hari sang Babilonia. Pero karon nagasiling ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nga
pagatipunon ko ang akon katawhan halin sa tanan nga lugar nga sa diin ginpalapta ko sila tungod sa puwerte ko nga kaakig sa ila. Dal-on ko sila liwat sa sini nga lugar kag magakabuhi sila nga malinong.
Mangin katawhan ko sila kag mangin Dios nila ako.
Himuon ko nga mangin isa sila sa tinutuyo kag pagkabuhi, agod magtahod sila permi sa akon para sa ila kaugalingon nga kaayuhan kag sa kaayuhan man sang ila mga kaliwat.
Indi makapalagyo si Haring Zedekia sa mga taga-Babilonia,
Magahimo ako sa ila sang kasugtanan nga wala sing katapusan, nga indi ako mag-untat sa paghimo sang maayo sa ila. Hatagan ko sila sang handom sa pagtahod sa akon, para indi sila magbiya sa akon.
Magakalipay ako sa paghimo sang maayo sa ila, kag paestaron ko sila sa sini nga duta nga hugot gid sa akon tagipusuon.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Subong nga ginpadal-an ko sang puwerte nga kalaglagan ini nga katawhan, padal-an ko man sila sang mga kaayuhan nga akon ginpromisa sa ila.
Sa liwat Sa liwat magbinaklanay sang mga uma sa sini nga duta nga sa karon mamingaw kag wala sing may nagaestar, tawo man ukon sapat, kay gintugyan ini sa mga taga-Babilonia.
“Huo, magbinaklanay liwat liwat sang mga uma. Pirmahan, selyuhan, kag saksihan ang mga papeles sang pagbakal sini. Pagahimuon ini sa kadutaan ni Benjamin, sa mga baryo sa palibot sang Jerusalem, sa mga banwa sang Juda, sa mga banwa nga ara sa kabukiran, sa mga banwa sa bulobukid sa west, kag sa mga banwa sa Negev. Matabo ini Matabo ini tungod nga pabalikon ko ang akon katawhan sa ila duta halin sa pagkabihag.
Dal-on si Zedekia sa Babilonia, kag magapabilin siya didto hasta nga matapos ang pagsilot ko sa iya. Bisan magpakig-away kamo sa mga taga-Babilonia indi gihapon kamo magdaog. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling si Jeremias, “Ginhambalan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga
si Hanamel nga anak ni Shalum nga akon tiyo magakadto sa akon kag magasiling, ‘Bakla ang akon uma sa Anatot. Tungod nga ikaw ang pinakamalapit ko nga paryente, may kinamatarong ka kag katungdanan sa pagbakal sini.’
“Nahibaluan ko nga ang Ginoo Ginoo gid ang nagsiling sadto,
gani ginbakal ko ato nga uma kay Hanamel sa bili nga 17 ka bilog nga pilak.
Samtang didto pa si Jeremias sa prisohan sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya sang palasyo sang palasyo , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya sa ikaduha nga beses.
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Nagasiling kamo nga mamingaw kag wala sing mga tawo kag mga kasapatan ang Juda kag Jerusalem. Pero sa ulihi mabatian liwat sa sini nga mga lugar
Huo, magakinalipay ang mga tawo Huo, magakinalipay ang mga tawo kay ibalik ko ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang sini nga duta pareho sang una. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Bisan mamingaw ini nga duta subong kag wala sing mga tawo kag mga kasapatan, sa ulihi may mga palahalban na sa tanan nga banwa nga pagadal-an sang mga manugbantay sang ila mga karnero.
Sa liwat magadamo ang ila mga kasapatan sa mga banwa nga ara sa kabukiran, sa mga bulobukid sa west, sa Negev, sa kadutaan ni Benjamin, sa mga baryo sa palibot sang Jerusalem, kag sa mga banwa sang Juda. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Magaabot ang tion nga tumanon ko gid ang akon maayo nga promisa sa katawhan sang Israel kag Juda.
Sa sina nga tion, padumalahon ko ang isa ka matarong nga hari nga kaliwat ni David. Himuon niya ang matarong kag husto sa bilog nga duta.
Sa sina man nga tion maluwas ang Juda kag makaangkon sang kalinong ang Jerusalem. Ang Jerusalem pagatawgon nga, ‘Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang Nagahatag sa Aton sang Pagkamatarong.
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “May ara permi si David sang kaliwat nga maghari sa katawhan sang Israel.
Kag may ara man permi sang pari sa mga kaliwat ni Levi nga magaalagad sa akon kag magahalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga regalo, kag iban pa nga mga halad.”
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagtuga sang kalibutan, nagporma sini kag nagbutang sa iya nahamtangan— Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ngalan:
“Subong nga indi na maliwat ang akon kasugtanan sa adlaw kag sa gab-i nga magguwa sila sa husto nga tion,
indi na man maliwat ang akon kasugtanan kay David nga akon alagad nga may ara siya permi sang kaliwat nga magahari. Kag amo man sa mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, nga magaalagad sa akon sa gihapon.
Padamuon ko ang mga kaliwat ni David kag ni Levi pareho kadamo sa mga bituon sa langit kag sa mga balas sa baybayon nga indi maisip.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
“Wala ka bala makabati nga ginainsultuhan sang mga tawo ang akon katawhan? Nagasiling sila, ‘Ginsikway sang Ginoo Ginoo ang duha ka ginharian nga iya ginpili.’ Gani ginainsulto nila ang akon katawhan kag wala na nila ini ginakabig nga nasyon.
Pero nagasiling ako nga subong indi na maliwat ang akon kasugtanan sa adlaw kag sa gab-i kag ang akon mga sistema nga nagagahom sa langit kag sa duta,
indi man maliwat ang akon kasugtanan sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob kag kay David nga akon alagad. Magapili gid ako halin sa mga kaliwat ni David sang magahari sa mga kaliwat ni Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob. Kaluoyan ko gid ang akon katawhan kag pabalikon ko sila sa ila duta halin sa pagkabihag.”
“Magpanawag ka sa akon kay buligan ko ikaw, kag ipahayag ko sa imo ang makatilingala kag sekreto nga mga butang nga wala mo pa mahibaluan.
Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling: Bisan ginpangguba pa ang mga balay sa Jerusalem kag ang palasyo sang hari sang Juda para himuon nga mga pamakod sa mga pader agod indi masulod sang mga kaaway,
sudlon gihapon ini sang mga taga-Babilonia.
“Pero magaabot ang tion nga ayuhon ko ini nga siyudad kag ang mga pumuluyo sini. Dayon magakabuhi sila nga mauswagon kag malinong.
Pabalikon ko ang mga taga-Israel kag taga-Juda sa ila duta halin sa pagkabihag,
Tinluan ko sila kag patawaron sa tanan nila nga sala nga nahimo kontra sa akon.
Kon matabo na ini, ang siyudad sang Jerusalem magahatag sa akon sang kadungganan, kalipay, kag kadayawan. Kag ang tagsa ka nasyon sa kalibutan magakurog sa kahadlok kon mabatian nila ang maayo nga mga butang nga akon ginahimo sa sini nga siyudad, pati ang pagpauswag ko sini kag paghatag sang kalinong.”
Gani ang tanan nga tawo, pati ang mga opisyal, nagsugot sa sini nga kasugtanan kag ginhilway nila ang ila mga ulipon, lalaki man ukon babayi.
Pero sang ulihi nagbaylo ang ila hunahuna kag gin-ulipon nila liwat ang mga ulipon nga ila ginhilway.
‘Sa kada pito ka tuig kinahanglan nga hilwayon ninyo ang inyo kapareho nga Hebreo nga ginbaligya sa inyo bilang ulipon. Pagkatapos nga nakaalagad siya sa inyo sing anom ka tuig, kinahanglan nga hilwayon gid ninyo siya.’ Pero wala gid magtuman ukon magpamati ang inyo mga katigulangan sa akon.
Sang nagligad nga mga inadlaw nagbiya kamo sa inyo mga sala kag ginhimo ninyo ang husto sa akon panulok. Nagsugot kamo sa paghilway sang inyo mga kasimanwa nga gin-ulipon ninyo nga gin-ulipon ninyo . Naghimo pa gani kamo sang kasugtanan sa akon parte sini parte sini didto mismo sa templo nga akon ginpili nga lugar para padunggan ako.
Pero nagbaylo ang inyo hunahuna kag wala ninyo ako pagtahura. Gin-ulipon ninyo liwat ang mga ulipon nga inyo ginhilway. Gusto gid nila ang kahilwayan, pero ginpilit ninyo sila nga mangin ulipon ninyo liwat.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga tungod nga wala ninyo ako pagtumana kag wala ninyo paghatagi sang kahilwayan ang inyo mga kasimanwa nga gin-ulipon ninyo nga gin-ulipon ninyo , hatagan ko kamo sang kahilwayan—kahilwayan nga mapatay sa inaway, gutom kag balatian. Himuon ko kamo nga makangilil-ad sa tanan nga ginharian sa kalibutan.
Itugyan ko sila sa ila mga kaaway nga gusto magpatay sa ila. Kag ang ila mga bangkay mangin kalan-on sang mga pispis kag talunon nga mga sapat.
“Itugyan ko gid si Haring Zedekia sang Juda kag ang iya mga opisyal sa mga soldado sang hari sang Babilonia nga ila kaaway nga gusto magpatay sa ila. Bisan nag-untat na sila sa pagsalakay sa inyo,
manduan ko sila sa pagsalakay liwat sa inyo siyudad. Salakayon nila ini kag agawon, kag dayon sunugon. Himuon ko nga mamingaw ang mga banwa sang Juda kag wala na sing may mag-estar sa sini. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Indi ka gid makapalagyo sa iya, kundi madakpan ka kag itugyan sa iya. Magaatubang ka sa iya para sentensyahan, para sentensyahan, kag dayon bihagon ka pa-Babilonia.
Pero Haring Zedekia, pamatii ining akon promisa sa imo: Indi ka mapatay sa inaway,
kundi mapatay ka nga malinong. Magasunog ang imo katawhan sang insenso sa pagpadungog sa imo, pareho sa ila ginhimo sang paglubong sang imo mga katigulangan nga naghari antes sa imo. Magapangasubo sila sa imo kag magasiling, ‘Abaw, patay na ang amon patay na ang amon hari!’ Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginhambal ini tanan ni Jeremias kay Haring Zedekia sang Juda didto sa Jerusalem.
Nagasalakay na sadto ang mga soldado sang hari sang Babilonia sa Jerusalem, Lakish, kag Azeka. Amo na lang ini ang nabilin nga mga banwa sang Juda nga napalibutan sang pader.
May ginsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias sadtong tion nga naghimo sang kasugtanan si Haring Zedekia sa tanan nga katawhan sang Jerusalem nga hatagan niya sang kahilwayan ang mga ulipon.
Nagsugo si Zedekia nga Nagsugo si Zedekia nga ang bisan sin-o nga may mga ulipon nga Hebreo, lalaki man ukon babayi, kinahanglan nga hatagan nila sang kahilwayan. Wala sing kapareho nila nga mga Judio nga magapabilin nga ulipon.
Sang si Jehoyakim nga anak ni Josia ang hari sang Juda, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
Nag-estar kami sa mga tolda kag gintuman gid namon ang tanan nga ginsugo sa amon ni Jonadab.
Pero sang ginsalakay ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia ang ini nga nasyon, hinadlukan kami sa mga soldado sang Babilonia kag sang Aram,
Si Jonadab nga anak ni Recab nagmando sa iya mga kaliwat nga indi sila mag-inom sang bino, kag nagtuman sila. Hasta subong wala sila nagainom sang bino kay ginatuman nila ang sugo sang ila katigulangan. Pero kamo ya wala gid magtuman sa akon bisan kapila ako maghambal sa inyo
paagi sa mga propeta nga akon mga alagad. Nagasiling sila sa inyo, ‘Magbiya na kamo sa inyo malain nga pagginawi kag bag-uha na ninyo ang inyo pamatasan kag indi na kamo magsimba ukon mag-alagad sa mga dios-dios. Dayon magakabuhi kamo sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa inyo kag sa inyo mga katigulangan.’ Pero wala gid kamo magtuman ukon magpamati sa akon.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Jonadab nga anak ni Recab nagtuman sa ginsugo sa ila sang ila katigulangan, pero kamo ya wala gid magtuman sa akon.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling: Pamati! Kamo nga katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem padal-an ko sang mga kalaglagan nga akon ginsiling kontra sa inyo. Nagpakighambal ako sa inyo pero wala kamo magpamati; nagpanawag ako sa inyo pero wala kamo magsabat.”
Dayon ginsilingan ni Jeremias ang mga pamilya sang mga Recabnon parte sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: “Ginsunod gid ninyo ang tanan nga ginsugo sang inyo katigulangan nga si Jonadab.
Gani nagapromisa ako nga si Jonadab nga anak ni Recab indi madulaan sang kaliwat nga nagaalagad sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, ang nagasiling sini.”
“Magkadto ka sa mga pamilya sang mga Recabnon kag hambala sila nga magkadto sa isa sa mga kuwarto sang templo kag paimna sila didto sang bino.”
Gani ginkadtuan ko si Jaazania, nga anak sang akon tukayo nga si akon tukayo nga si Jeremias nga anak ni Habazinia, kag ang tanan niya nga mga utod kag mga anak. Ini sila tanan ang mga pamilya sang mga Recabnon.
Gindala ko sila sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , didto sa kuwarto sang mga anak nga lalaki ni Hanan nga anak ni Igdalia nga alagad sang Dios. Ini nga kuwarto tupad sang kuwarto sang mga opisyal kag ara sa ibabaw sang kuwarto ni Maasea nga anak ni Shalum, nga manugbantay sang puwertahan sang templo.
Dayon nagbutang ako sang mga pitsil nga may bino kag mga kupa sa atubangan sang mga Recabnon kag ginsilingan sila nga mag-inom.
Pero nagsabat sila, “Wala kami nagainom sang bino. Ang amon katigulangan nga si Jonadab nga anak ni Recab nagmando sa amon kag sa amon mga kaliwat nga indi gid mag-inom sang bino.
Kag amo pa gid ini ang iya ginmando sa amon: ‘Indi kamo magpatindog sang mga balay ukon magpanguma ukon magtanom sang ubas; indi gid kamo magpanag-iya sang sini nga mga butang. Kinahanglan nga sa mga tolda lang kamo maestar. Kag kon tumanon ninyo ini, magakabuhi kamo sing malawig sa bisan diin nga duta nga inyo estaran.’
Gintuman namon ang tanan nga ginsugo sa amon sang amon katigulangan nga si Jonadab. Kami kag ang amon mga asawa kag mga kabataan wala gid mag-inom sang bino,
ukon magpatindog sang mga balay para estaran, ukon magpanag-iya sang mga talamnan sang ubas kag mga uma.
Sang ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoyakim nga anak ni Josia sa Juda, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
Ginbasa ni Baruc sa mga tawo ang mensahi ni Jeremias nga nasulat sa linukot nga kasulatan. Ginhimo ini ni Baruc didto sa templo, sa may kuwarto ni Gemaria nga sekretaryo nga anak ni Shafan. Ining kuwarto ni Gemaria ara sa ibabaw nga ugsaran sang templo, malapit sa alagyan sang Bag-o nga Puwertahan.
Sang mabatian ni Micaya nga anak ni Gemaria kag apo ni Shafan ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nasulat sa linukot nga kasulatan,
nagkadto siya sa palasyo, didto sa kuwarto sang sekretaryo nga sa diin nagatipon ang tanan nga opisyal. Ato didto si Elishama nga sekretaryo, si Delaya nga anak ni Shemaya, si Elnatan nga anak ni Acbor, si Gemaria nga anak ni Shafan, si Zedekia nga anak ni Hanania, kag ang iban pa nga mga opisyal.
Ginsugid sa ila ni Micaya ang tanan nga iya nabatian nga ginbasa ni Baruc sa mga tawo halin sa linukot nga kasulatan.
Dayon ginsugo sang mga opisyal si Jehudi nga anak ni Netania kag apo ni Shelemia kag apo sa tuhod ni Cushi sa pagkadto kay Baruc kag sa pagsiling, “Dal-a ang kasulatan nga imo ginbasa sa katawhan kag magkadto ka diri sa amon.” Gani nagkadto didto si Baruc dala ang kasulatan.
Pag-abot ni Baruc, nagsiling ang mga opisyal sa iya, “Pungko kag basaha sa amon ang linukot nga kasulatan.” Gani ginbasa ato ni Baruc sa ila.
Pagkabati nila sini tanan nagtinulukay sila sa kahadlok kag nagsiling kay Baruc, “Kinahanglan nga ibalita ta ini sa hari.”
Dayon ginpamangkot nila si Baruc, “Abi sugiri kami kon paano mo ini ginsulat. Gindiktahan ka bala ni Jeremias?”
Nagsabat si Baruc, “ Huo, Huo, gindikta ini tanan sa akon ni Jeremias, kag ginsulat ko ini sa tinta sa sini nga kasulatan.”
Dayon nagsiling ang mga opisyal kay Baruc, “Magpanago kamo ni Jeremias kag indi kamo magsugid sa kay bisan sin-o kon diin kamo.”
“Magkuha ka sang linukot nga sululatan
Ginbutang sang mga opisyal ang linukot nga kasulatan didto sa kuwarto ni Elishama nga sekretaryo kag nagkadto dayon sila sa hari didto sa ugsaran sang palasyo, kag ginbalita ang tanan.
Ginsugo dayon sang hari si Jehudi nga kuhaon ang linukot nga kasulatan. Ginkuha ini ni Jehudi didto sa kuwarto ni Elishama kag ginbasa sa hari kag sa tanan nga opisyal nga nagatindog sa iya tupad.
Tigtulugnaw sadto, kag ang hari didto sa iya kuwarto nga para sa tigtulugnaw, kag nagapungko siya nga nagaatubang sa kalayo.
Kada makatapos basa si Jehudi sing tatlo ukon apat ka column, ginautod dayon sang hari ang ato nga parte paagi sa kutsilyo kag ginahaboy sa kalayo, hasta nga naubos sunog ang bilog nga kasulatan.
Wala gid mahadlok ang hari kag ang iya mga opisyal sang mabatian nila ang mensahi sang kasulatan. Wala gani nila paggisia ang ila mga bayo bilang tanda sang pagpangasubo bilang tanda sang pagpangasubo .
Bisan pa nagpangabay sila ni Elnatan, Delaya, kag Gemaria sa hari nga indi pagsunugon ang kasulatan, wala gid magpamati ang hari.
Sa baylo, ginmanduan sang hari si Jerameel nga iya anak, si Seraya nga anak ni Azriel, kag si Shelemia nga anak ni Abdeel sa pagdakop kay Baruc nga sekretaryo kag kay Propeta Jeremias. Pero gintago sila sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sa tapos masunog sang hari ang linukot nga kasulatan nga may mensahi nga gindikta ni Jeremias kay Baruc, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
“Magkuha ka sang isa pa ka sululatan kag isulat liwat ang tanan nga nasulat sa nahauna nga kasulatan nga ginsunog ni Haring Jehoyakim sang Juda.
Silinga dayon ang hari nga amo ini ang akon ginasiling, ‘Ginsunog mo ang linukot nga kasulatan kay nagasiling didto nga laglagon gid sang hari sang Babilonia ang ini nga duta kag pamatyon ang mga tawo kag mga kasapatan.
Basi pa lang magbiya sa ila malain nga pagginawi ang katawhan sang Juda kon mabatian nila ang mga kalaglagan nga ginplano ko nga himuon kontra sa ila. Kon matabo ini, patawaron ko sila sa ila mga kalautan kag mga sala.”
Gani amo ini ang akon ginasiling parte sa imo, Haring Jehoyakim sang Juda: Wala ka sing kaliwat nga maghari sa ginharian ni David. Patyon ka, kag ang imo bangkay ihaboy lang nga mainitan kon adlaw kag matun-ugan kon gab-i.
Silutan ko ikaw kag ang imo mga anak, pati ang imo mga opisyal tungod sa inyo kalautan. Ipaagom ko sa inyo kag sa katawhan sang Jerusalem kag Juda ang tanan nga kalaglagan nga akon ginsiling kontra sa inyo tungod kay wala kamo magpamati sa akon.’ ”
Gani nagkuha si Jeremias sang isa pa ka sululatan kag ginhatag ini kay Baruc nga anak ni Neria, kag ginsulat ni Baruc ang tanan nga gindikta sa iya ni Jeremias, pareho sang ginhimo nila sa nahauna nga kasulatan nga ginsunog ni Haring Jehoyakim sang Juda. Pero madamo pa sang gindugang si Jeremias si Jeremias nga mensahi nga pulopareho sa una nga ginsulat.
Gani ginpatawag ni Jeremias si Baruc nga anak ni Neria kag gindikta sa iya ang tanan nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag ginsulat ini ni Baruc sa linukot nga sululatan.
Nagsiling dayon si Jeremias kay Baruc, “Ginabawalan ako sa pagkadto sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Gani ikaw na lang ang magkadto sa templo sa adlaw sang pagpuasa. Magatipon didto ang katawhan sang Juda halin sa ila mga banwa. Basahon mo sa ila ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa sini nga kasulatan nga ginsulat mo samtang ginadikta ko sa imo.
Basi pa lang paagi sini magdangop sila sa Ginoo Ginoo , kag magbiya na sila sa ila malain nga pagginawi. Kay ginpaandaman na sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga silutan sila sa iya puwerte nga kaakig.”
Gani gintuman ni Baruc ang tanan nga ginsugo sa iya ni Jeremias. Ginbasa niya didto sa templo ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo sa linukot nga kasulatan.
Natabo ini sang adlaw sang pagpuasa sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , sadtong ikasiyam nga bulan sang ikalima nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoyakim nga anak ni Josia sa Juda. Nagtipon didto sa templo ang mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem kag sang mga banwa sang Juda.
Si Zedekia nga anak ni Josia ginhimo ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia nga hari sang Juda bilang bulos kay Jehoyakin nga anak ni Jehoyakim.
Bisan mapierdi pa ninyo ang bilog nga soldado sang Babilonia nga nagasalakay sa inyo, kag ang nabilin lang sa ila amo ang pilason nga ara sa ila mga tolda, magasalakay gihapon sila sa inyo kag sunugon nila ini nga siyudad.’ ”
Sang magpalagyo ang mga soldado sang Babilonia halin sa Jerusalem tungod sa mga soldado sang hari sang Egypt,
naghalin si Jeremias sa Jerusalem kag nagkadto sa duta ni Benjamin sa pagkuha sang iya parte sa duta sang iya pamilya.
Pero pag-abot niya sa Puwertahan ni Benjamin, gindakop siya sang kapitan sang mga guwardya nga si Iria nga anak ni Shelemia kag apo ni Hanania. Ginsilingan siya sang kapitan, “Nagaapin ka sa mga taga-Babilonia!”
Nagsabat si Jeremias, “Indi ina matuod! Wala ako nagaapin sa mga taga-Babilonia.” Pero indi gid magpati si Iria, gani gindakop niya si Jeremias kag gindala sa mga opisyal.
Naakig sila kay Jeremias, kag ginpahanot nila siya kag dayon ginpriso didto sa balay ni Jonatan nga sekretaryo. Ato nga balay ginhimo nila nga prisohan.
Ginsulod nila si Jeremias sa selda nga ara sa idalom sang duta kag dugay siya didto.
Sang ulihi ginpakuha siya ni Haring Zedekia kag gindala sa palasyo. Nagpamangkot si Zedekia sa iya sa sekreto, “May mensahi ka bala halin sa Ginoo Ginoo ?” Nagsabat si Jeremias, “Huo, may ara. Itugyan ka sa hari sang Babilonia.”
Dayon nagpamangkot si Jeremias sa hari, “Ano bala ang sala nga akon nahimo sa imo, sa imo mga opisyal, kag sa mga tawo nga ginpapriso mo ako?
Diin na bala ang inyo mga propeta nga nagpanagna nga indi pagsalakayon sang hari sang Babilonia ang ini nga siyudad?
Pero si Zedekia kag ang iya mga opisyal, kag ang mga tawo nga iya ginadumalahan, wala magpamati sa mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginhambal ni Propeta Jeremias.
Mahal nga Hari, kon mahimo pamatii man ako. Nagapakitluoy ako sa imo nga indi na ako pag-ibalik didto sa balay ni Jonatan nga sekretaryo, kay mapatay gid ako didto.”
Gani nagmando si Haring Zedekia nga ibutang na lang si Jeremias didto sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya sang palasyo sang palasyo . Nagmando man ang hari nga hatagan si Jeremias sang tinapay kada adlaw samtang may nabilin pa nga tinapay sa siyudad. Gani nagpabilin nga priso nga priso si Jeremias didto sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya.
Karon, ginsugo ni Haring Zedekia si Jehucal nga anak ni Shelemia kag ang pari nga si Zefanias nga anak ni Maasea nga magkadto kay Propeta Jeremias sa pagpangabay sa iya nga magpangamuyo siya sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios para sa ila.
Sadto nga tion wala pa si Jeremias napriso, gani hilway siya sa pagkadto bisan diin.
Sa sina man nga tion nagasalakay ang mga taga-Babilonia
Dayon magabalik ang mga taga-Babilonia sa sini nga siyudad. Sakupon nila ini kag dayon sunugon.
Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo : Indi ninyo pagdayai ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa paghunahuna nga indi na magbalik ang mga taga-Babilonia. Kay magabalik gid sila.
Nakabati sila ni Shefatia nga anak ni Matan, si Gedalia nga anak ni Pashur, si Jehucal nga anak ni Shelemia, kag si Pashur nga anak ni Malkia sa ginsiling ni Jeremias sa mga tawo. Amo ini ang ginsiling ni Jeremias, “Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga
Dayon nagmando ang hari kay Ebed Melec, “Upda ang 30 sa akon mga tinawo kag kuhaa ninyo si Jeremias sa buho para indi siya mapatay.”
Gani gin-upod ni Ebed Melec ang mga tawo kag nagkadto sila sa bodega sang palasyo. Nagkuha si Ebed Melec didto sang mga lapat kag gintunton dayon nila ini upod sa lubid didto kay Jeremias sa buho.
Nagsiling si Ebed Melec kay Jeremias, “Ihapin sa imo ilok ang mga lapat para indi ka masakitan sang lubid.” Ginhimo ato ni Jeremias,
kag dayon ginbatak nila siya paguwa sa buho. Kag nagpabilin nga priso nga priso si Jeremias didto sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya.
Karon, ginpatawag ni Haring Zedekia si Jeremias didto sa ikatatlo nga puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsiling si Zedekia kay Jeremias, “May ipamangkot ako sa imo, kag gusto ko nga sugiran mo ako sing matuod.”
Nagsiling si Jeremias kay Zedekia, “Kon sugiran ko ikaw sing matuod, ipapatay mo ako. Bisan laygayan ko pa ikaw, indi ka gihapon magpamati sa akon.”
Pero nagsumpa sing sekreto si Haring Zedekia kay Jeremias. Siling niya, “Nagasumpa ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga buhi, nga naghatag sa aton sang kabuhi, nga indi ko ikaw pagpatyon ukon pag-itugyan sa gusto magpatay sa imo.”
Nagsiling si Jeremias kay Zedekia, “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: Kon magsurender ka sa mga opisyal sang hari sang Babilonia, maluwas mo ang imo kabuhi kag indi pagsunugon ini nga siyudad. Ikaw kag ang imo panimalay mabuhi.
Pero kon indi ka gani magsurender, itugyan ini nga siyudad sa mga taga-Babilonia, kag sunugon nila ini kag indi ka gid makapalagyo sa ila.”
Nagsiling si Haring Zedekia, “Nahadlok ako sa mga Judio nga nagadampig sa mga taga-Babilonia. Basi kon itugyan ako sang mga taga-Babilonia sa ila kag sakiton nila ako.”
ang bisan sin-o nga magpabilin sa sini nga siyudad mapatay sa inaway, gutom, kag balatian. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga magsurender sa mga taga-Babilonia
Nagsabat si Jeremias, “Indi ka pag-itugyan sa ila kon tumanon mo lang ang Ginoo Ginoo . Kon sundon mo ang akon ginasiling, maluwas ang imo kabuhi, kag wala sing may matabo sa imo.
Pero kon indi ka gani magsurender, amo ini ang ginpahayag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon nga matabo sa imo:
Ang tanan nga babayi nga nabilin sa imo palasyo pagadal-on sang mga opisyal sang hari sang Babilonia. Ini nga mga babayi magasiling sa imo: ‘Gintunto ka lang sang imo suod nga mga abyan. Karon nga ang imo mga tiil nagalubong sa lunang, ginbayaan ka nila.’
“Ang tanan mo nga asawa kag kabataan pagabihagon sang mga taga-Babilonia. Ikaw mismo indi makapalagyo sa ila; bihagon ka sang hari sang Babilonia, kag pagasunugon ini nga siyudad.”
Dayon nagsiling si Zedekia kay Jeremias, “Indi ka gid magpanugid sang aton gin-estoryahan para indi ka mapatay.
Basi kon mabalitaan sang mga opisyal nga nag-estoryahanay kita kag mamangkot sila sa imo, ‘Ano ang inyo gin-estoryahan sang hari? Kon indi ka manugid patyon ka namon.’
Kon matabo ini, silingon mo sila, ‘Nagpakitluoy ako sa hari nga indi niya ako pag-ibalik sa balay ni Jonatan para mapatay didto.’ ”
Nagkadto matuod ang mga opisyal kay Jeremias kag ginpamangkot siya. Ginsabat niya sila suno sa ginsiling sang hari sa iya. Gani wala na sila magsagi pangusisa, kay wala man sing may nakabati sang pag-estoryahanay ni Jeremias kag sang hari.
Amo sini ang pagkasakop sang Jerusalem:
Nagasiling man ang Ginoo Ginoo nga sigurado gid nga maagaw ini nga siyudad sang mga taga-Babilonia kag sakupon nila ini.”
Gani ato nga mga opisyal nagsiling sa hari, “Dapat patyon ini nga tawo. Ginapaluya lang niya ang mga soldado nga nabilin sa sini nga siyudad, pati ang tanan nga tawo, tungod sang iya ginapanghambal sa ila. Wala siya nagahandom sang kaayuhan sang mga tawo kundi sang ila kalaglagan.”
Nagsabat si Haring Zedekia, “Pagusto kamo kon ano ang himuon ninyo sa iya. Indi ako makapamalabag.”
Gani ginkuha nila si Jeremias kag gintunton sa buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig didto sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya. Ini nga pulunduhan sang tubig ginapanag-iyahan ni Malkia nga anak sang hari. Wala ini sing tubig pero may lunang, kag halos nalubong didto si Jeremias.
“Mahal nga Hari, malain ang ginhimo sang sina nga mga tawo kay Jeremias. Ginhulog nila siya sa buho, kag mapatay gid siya didto sa gutom kon maubos na ang pagkaon sa siyudad.”
Sang ikanapulo nga bulan sang ikasiyam nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia sa Juda, nagsalakay si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag ang iya bilog nga soldado sa Jerusalem.
Pero ginbilin ni Nebuzaradan sa Juda ang pila ka imol gid nga mga tawo nga wala sing duta, kag ginhatagan niya sila sang mga talamnan sang ubas kag mga uma.
Karon, si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia nagmando kay Nebuzaradan nga pangulo sang mga guwardya parte kay Jeremias. Siling niya,
“Tatapa si Jeremias, kag indi siya pag-anha. Himua ang bisan ano nga iya ginapangabay.”
Gani gintuman ini ni Nebuzaradan nga pangulo sang mga guwardya, ni Nebushazban nga pangulo nga opisyal, ni Nergal Sharezer nga isa man ka mataas nga opisyal, kag sang iban pa nga mga opisyal sang hari sang Babilonia.
Ginpakuha nila si Jeremias didto sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya kag gintugyan kay Gedalia nga anak ni Ahikam kag apo ni Shafan, nga amo ang nagdala sa iya puli sa iya balay. Gani nagpabilin si Jeremias sa Juda sa Juda upod sang iban niya nga mga kasimanwa.
Sang didto pa si Jeremias sa prisohan sa ugsaran sang mga guwardya, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya:
“Magkadto ka kay Ebed Melec nga taga-Ethiopia kag silinga siya nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling, ‘Tumanon ko na ang akon ginsiling kontra sa sini nga siyudad. Indi ko ini pagpauswagon kundi laglagon. Makita mo gid mismo ini nga matabo.
Pero luwason ko ikaw sa sina nga tion. Indi ka pag-itugyan sa mga tawo nga imo ginakahadlukan.
Luwason ko gid ikaw. Indi ka mapatay sa inaway kundi maluwas ka, tungod kay nagasalig ka sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Kag sang ikasiyam nga adlaw sang ikaapat nga bulan sang ikaonse nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia, naguba sang mga taga-Babilonia ang mga pader sang siyudad.
Sang masulod na nila ang Jerusalem, nagpungko ang mga opisyal sang hari sang Babilonia sa Tunga nga Puwertahan.
Sang makita ini ni Haring Zedekia kag sang tanan niya nga soldado nagpalagyo sila. Naghalin sila sa siyudad sang kagab-ihon, kag didto sila nag-agi sa hardin sang hari, sa may puwertahan sa tunga sang duha ka pader, kag nagderetso sila sa Kapatagan sang Jordan.
Pero ginlagas sila sang mga soldado sang Babilonia, kag naabtan sila sa kapatagan sang Jerico. Gindakop nila si Zedekia kag gindala kay Haring Nebucadnezar sa Ribla sa duta sang Hamat, kag didto ginsentensyahan siya ni Nebucadnezar.
Didto sa Ribla, ginpapatay ni Nebucadnezar ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Zedekia sa iya mismo atubangan. Ginpapatay man niya ang tanan nga opisyal sang Juda.
Ginpalukat niya ang mga mata ni Zedekia kag ginpakadenahan siya kag gindala sa Babilonia.
Sa pihak nga bahin, ginsunog sang mga taga-Babilonia ang palasyo sang hari kag ang mga balay sa Jerusalem, kag ginpangguba nila ang mga pader sang siyudad.
Sa pagpangulo ni Nebuzaradan nga pangulo sang mga guwardya, ginpangdala sa Babilonia ang mga tawo nga nabilin sa siyudad, pati atong mga nagdampig kay Nebuzaradan.
May ginhambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias pagkatapos nga ginbuy-an siya ni Nebuzaradan nga pangulo sang mga guwardya didto sa Rama. Nakadenahan sadto si Jeremias upod sa mga bihag nga mga taga-Jerusalem kag taga-Juda nga pagadal-on sa Babilonia.
Ako mismo magatiner diri sa Mizpa sa pagrepresentar sa inyo sa mga taga-Babilonia kon mag-abot sila diri sa aton. Mag-estar kamo sa bisan diin nga banwa nga naagaw ninyo, kag magpangharvest kamo sang mga ubas, mga olibo, kag iban pa nga mga prutas, kag tagua ninyo ini sa inyo mga suludlan.”
Nabalitaan man sang tanan nga Judio nga nagpalagyo nga nagpalagyo sa Moab, Ammon, Edom, kag sa iban nga mga nasyon nga may ginbilin si Haring Nebucadnezar nga mga tawo sa Juda kag ginhimo niya nga gobernador nila si Gedalia nga anak ni Ahikam kag apo ni Shafan.
Gani nagbalik sila tanan sa Juda halin sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar nga sa diin sila naglalapta, kag nagkadto sila kay Gedalia sa Mizpa. Dayon nagpangharvest sila sang madamo gid nga mga ubas kag iban pa nga mga prutas.
Sang ulihi si Johanan nga anak ni Karea kag ang iban pa nga mga opisyal sang mga soldado nga wala magsurender sa Babilonia nagkadto kay Gedalia sa Mizpa
kag nagsiling, “Wala ka bala makahibalo nga si Haring Baalis sang Ammon nagsugo kay Ishmael nga anak ni Netania sa pagpatay sa imo?” Pero indi magpati si Gedalia sa ila.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpakigkita si Johanan kay Gedalia sa sekreto kag nagsiling, “Patyon ko si Ishmael nga wala sing may makahibalo. Ngaa pabay-an ta lang siya sa pagpatay sa imo? Amo ina ang mangin kabangdanan nga maglalapta kag magkaladula ang mga Judio nga nagkalabilin diri sa Juda nga ginadumalahan mo.”
Pero nagsiling si Gedalia kay Johanan, “Indi ina paghimua. Indi matuod ang imo ginasiling parte kay Ishmael.”
Sang makita ni Nebuzaradan si Jeremias, nagsiling siya kay Jeremias, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios nagsiling nga laglagon niya ang Jerusalem.
Kag karon natabo ini; ginhimo gid sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginsiling. Natabo ini tanan tungod kay nagpakasala ang imo mga kasimanwa sa Ginoo Ginoo kag wala sila magtuman sa iya.
Pero karon, hukason ko ang imo mga kadena kag buy-an ko ikaw. Kon gusto mo, upod ka sa akon sa Babilonia kag tatapon ko ikaw. Pero kon indi ka, wala sing kaso. Pili ka lang sa bilog nga lugar kag pagusto ka kon diin ka makadto.
Dayon ginhatagan siya ni Nebuzaradan sang mga pagkaon kag regalo kag ginpalakat.
Kag nagkadto si Jeremias kay Gedalia didto sa Mizpa, kag nag-estar siya didto upod sa mga tawo nga nagkalabilin.
May pila ka opisyal sang mga soldado sang Juda kaupod sang ila mga tinawo nga wala magsurender sa Babilonia nga wala magsurender sa Babilonia . Didto sila sa kaumahan nagtiner. Nakabalita sila nga ginhimo sang hari sang Babilonia si Gedalia nga gobernador sang tanan nga tawo sa Juda nga wala ginbihag pa-Babilonia, nga puwerte kaimol.
Gani nagkadto ini nga mga opisyal kay Gedalia sa Mizpa. Ini nga mga opisyal amo sila ni Ishmael nga anak ni Netania, Johanan kag Jonatan nga mga anak ni Karea, Seraya nga anak ni Tanhumet, ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Efai nga taga-Netofa, kag si Jaazania nga taga-Maaca. Nag-upod man sa ila ang ila mga tinawo.
Nagsumpa si Gedalia sa ila kag sa ila mga tinawo, “Indi kamo mahadlok sa pagpasakop sa mga taga-Babilonia.
Ining si Ishmael anak ni Netania kag apo ni Elishama. Miyembro siya sang harianon nga pamilya kag isa sa mga opisyal sang hari sadto anay. Karon, sang ikapito nga bulan sang sadto nga tuig, nagkadto si Ishmael kay Gedalia didto sa Mizpa kaupod sang napulo ka tawo. Kag samtang nagakaon sila,
Ginpamihag dayon ni Ishmael ang mga tawo nga nabilin sa Mizpa—ang mga anak nga babayi sang hari kag ang mga katawhan nga gintugyan ni Nebuzaradan kay Gedalia nga iya tatapon. Dayon naglakat si Ishmael pabalik sa Ammon dala ini nga mga bihag.
Karon, nabalitaan ni Johanan nga anak ni Karea kag sang mga kaupod niya nga mga opisyal sang mga soldado ang pagpamatay ni Ishmael.
Gani gintipon nila ang tanan nila nga tinawo kag naglakat sa pagpakig-away kay Ishmael. Naabtan nila siya malapit sa dako nga punong sa Gibeon.
Pagkakita sang mga bihag ni Ishmael kay Johanan kag sa kaupod niya nga mga opisyal, nalipay sila.
Tanan sila nga ginbihag ni Ishmael halin sa Mizpa nagdalagan pakadto kay Johanan.
Pero si Ishmael kag ang iya walo ka tinawo nagpalagyo sa Ammon.
Dayon gintipon ni Johanan kag sang kaupod niya nga mga opisyal ang tanan nga ginbihag ni Ishmael halin sa Mizpa pagkatapos sang pagpatay niya kay Gedalia nga anak ni Ahikam. Halin didto sa Gibeon,
nagkadto sila sa Gerut Kimham malapit sa Betlehem, nga sa diin nagpreparar sila sa pagkadto sa Egypt.
Kay nahadlok sila sa mga taga-Babilonia tungod kay ginpatay ni Ishmael si Gedalia nga ginhimo sang hari sang Babilonia nga gobernador sang Juda.
nagtindog si Ishmael kag ang napulo ka tawo nga kaupod niya kag ginpatay nila si Gedalia paagi sa espada. Gani napatay ang ginhimo sang hari sang Babilonia nga gobernador sa Juda.
Ginpamatay man nila ni Ishmael ang tanan nga opisyal sang mga opisyal sang mga Judio didto sa Mizpa, pati ang mga soldado nga taga-Babilonia.
Pagkaaga, sa wala pa sing may nakahibalo nga ginpatay si Gedalia,
may 80 ka tawo nga nagapakadto sa Mizpa halin sa Shekem, Shilo, kag Samaria. Ginbarbasan nila ang ila mga burangos, gin-gisi ang mga bayo, kag ginpilas ang ila mga lawas, tungod kay nagapangasubo sila tungod kay nagapangasubo sila . May dala sila nga mga halad nga regalo kag insenso para ihalad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginsugata sila ni Ishmael nga nagahilibion halin sa Mizpa. Nagsiling si Ishmael sa ila, “Dali kamo, tan-awa ninyo ang natabo kay Gedalia.”
Pag-abot nila sa siyudad, ang iban sa ila ginpamatay ni Ishmael kag sang iya mga kaupod, kag pagkatapos ginhulog ang ila mga bangkay sa buho nga pulunduhan sang tubig.
Ang napulo sa ila wala ginpamatay kay nagsiling sila kay Ishmael, “Indi kami pagpatya! Ihatag namon sa imo ang amon mga trigo, barley, lana kag honey nga natago sa uma.”
Ang buho nga ginhulugan ni Ishmael sang mga bangkay nga iya ginpamatay upod sa bangkay ni Gedalia ginpakutkot sadto ni Haring Asa sang ginasalakay sila ni Haring Baasha sang Israel. Ginpuno ini ni Ishmael sang mga bangkay.
Karon, nagpalapit kay Jeremias si Johanan nga anak ni Karea, si Jezania nga anak ni Hoshaya, kag ang mga kaupod nila nga mga opisyal sang mga soldado, pati ang tanan nga tawo halin sa pinakakubos hasta sa pinakadungganon.
‘Kon magpabilin kamo sa sini nga duta pabangunon ko kamo kag patindugon liwat liwat kag indi ko kamo paglaglagon. Kay nagkasubo gid ako sa kalaglagan nga ginpadala ko sa inyo.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga indi na kamo magkahadlok sa hari sang Babilonia kay kaupod ninyo ako kag luwason ko kamo sa iya.
Kaluoyan ko kamo. Hikuton ko siya nga kaluoyan niya kamo, nga tugutan niya nga magpabilin kamo sa inyo duta.’
“Pero kon indi kamo magtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag magsiling kamo nga, ‘Indi kami magpabilin sa sini nga duta
kundi makadto kami sa Egypt kag didto mag-estar kay wala gid didto sang inaway ukon gutom,’
amo ini ang isiling sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: ‘Kamo nga mga nabilin nga katawhan sang Juda, kon desidido gid man kamo nga didto mag-estar sa Egypt,
ang inaway kag gutom nga inyo ginakahadlukan magasunod sa inyo, kag didto mapatay kamo.
Huo, ang tanan nga gusto mag-estar sa Egypt mapatay sa inaway, gutom, kag balatian. Wala gid sing bisan isa sa ila nga makaluwas ukon makapalagyo sa kalaglagan nga ipadala ko sa ila.’
“Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, ‘Subong nga ang akon puwerte nga kaakig ginpaagom ko sa katawhan sang Jerusalem, ipaagom ko man ang akon kaakig sa inyo kon magkadto kamo sa Egypt. Pakamalauton kamo kag kangil-aran sang mga tawo. Pakalainon nila kamo kag yagutaon, kag indi na gid kamo makabalik sa inyo duta.’
“Kamo nga mga nabilin nga katawhan sang Juda, nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga indi gid kamo magkadto sa Egypt. Tandai gid ninyo ining ginapaandam ko sa inyo subong.
Nagsiling sila kay Jeremias, “Nagapangabay kami sa imo nga magpangamuyo ka sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios para sa amon nga mga nabilin. Nakita mo nga madamo kami sang una, pero subong diutay na lang.
Indi gid maayo ining inyo ginhimo! Nagpangabay kamo sa akon nga magdangop ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios para sa inyo kag nagsiling pa kamo nga tumanon gid ninyo ang tanan nga isiling niya sa inyo.
Pero karon nga ginsugid ko sa inyo ang tanan nga ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, wala ninyo ini pagtumana.
Gani ginasiguro ko sa inyo nga mapatay gid kamo sa inaway, gutom, kag balatian didto sa Egypt, nga sa diin gusto ninyo mag-estar.”
Magpangamuyo ka sa Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios nga ipahayag niya sa amon kon diin kami makadto kag kon ano ang dapat namon himuon.”
Nagsabat si Jeremias, “Sige, mangamuyo ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios para sa inyo ginapangabay, kag sugiran ko kamo kon ano ang iya isiling. Wala gid ako sing itago sa inyo.”
Dayon nagsiling sila kay Jeremias, “Kabay pa nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga imo Dios mangin matuod kag masaligan nga saksi kontra sa amon kon indi namon pagtumanon ang tanan nga isiling niya sa amon paagi sa imo.
Bisan magustuhan man namon ini ukon indi, tumanon gid namon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios, para mangin maayo ang tanan para sa aton.”
Pagkaligad sang napulo ka adlaw, naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias.
Gani ginpatawag ni Jeremias si Johanan kag ang tanan nga kaupod niya nga mga opisyal sang mga soldado, pati ang tanan nga katawhan halin sa pinakakubos hasta sa pinakadungganon.
Nagsiling si Jeremias sa ila, “Ginpangabay ninyo ako sa pagpakighambal sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, kag amo ini ang iya sabat:
Pagkatapos hambal ni Jeremias sa tanan nga tawo sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios parte sa ila,
Magsiling ka dayon sa ila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling, ‘Ipadala ko ang akon alagad nga si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia, kag iplastar ko ang iya trono kag harianon nga tolda sa sini nga mga bato nga ginpalubong ko sa tunga sang alagyan.
Salakayon niya ang Egypt kag patyon ang mga natalana nga patyon kag bihagon ang mga natalana nga bihagon. Patyon sa inaway ang natalana nga mapatay sa inaway.
Sunugon niya ang mga templo sang mga dios-dios sang Egypt, kag ang mga dios-dios mismo magakalasunog. Dayon bihagon niya ang mga tawo pa-Babilonia. Limpyuhan niya ang duta sang Egypt sang mga tawo pareho sang paglimpyo sang manugbantay sang karnero sang iya bayo nga may mga kuto. Kag magahalin si Nebucadnezar nga indi maano.
Panggub-on niya ang ginapakabalaan nga mga haligi sa Heliopolis
nagsiling sa iya si Azaria nga anak ni Hoshaya, si Johanan nga anak ni Karea, kag ang iban pa nga mga hambog nga tawo, “Nagabutig ka! Ang Ginoo Ginoo nga aton Dios wala nagpadala sa imo sa pagsiling sa amon nga indi kami magkadto sa Egypt sa pag-estar didto.
Si Baruc nga anak ni Neria nagasulsol sa imo nga itugyan kami sa mga taga-Babilonia, para patyon nila kami ukon bihagon pa-Babilonia.”
Gani si Johanan kag ang mga kaupod niya nga mga opisyal sang mga soldado, kag ang tanan nga tawo, wala magtuman sa sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magpabilin sa Juda.
Sa baylo, gindala ni Johanan kag sang mga kaupod niya nga mga opisyal ang mga tawo pakadto sa Egypt. Ini nga mga tawo amo anay ang nagbalik sa Juda halin sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon nga sa diin sila naglalapta.
Lakip sa ila amo ang mga lalaki, babayi, kabataan, mga anak nga babayi sang hari sang Juda sang Juda , kag iban pa nga gintugyan ni Nebuzaradan nga pangulo sang mga guwardya kay Gedalia nga anak ni Ahikam kag apo ni Shafan. Gindala man nila si Propeta Jeremias kag si Baruc nga anak ni Neria.
Wala nila pagtumana ang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagkadto gid sila sa Egypt, hasta sa Tapanhes.
Didto sa Tapanhes, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias,
“Samtang nagatan-aw ang katawhan sang Juda, magkuha ka sang dalagko nga mga bato kag ilubong sa duta, sa tunga sang alagyan
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias parte sa tanan nga Judio nga nagaestar sa north sang Egypt—sa mga banwa sang Migdol, Tapanhes, kag Memfis—kag pati ang sa south sang Egypt.
Hasta subong wala kamo magpaubos sang inyo kaugalingon kag magtahod sa akon. Wala man kamo magtuman sa akon kasuguan kag mga pagsulundan nga akon ginhatag sa inyo kag sa inyo mga katigulangan.
“Gani ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, handa na sa paglaglag sa inyo kag sa bilog nga Juda.
Kamo nga mga nabilin nga buhi sa Juda nga nagpamilit gid nga magkadto kag mag-estar diri sa Egypt, mapatay kamo tanan halin sa pinakakubos hasta sa pinakadungganon. Huo, mapatay kamo diri sa inaway ukon gutom. Pakamalauton kamo, kangil-aran, pakalainon, kag yagutaon.
Himuon ko sa inyo diri sa Egypt ang akon ginhimo sa Jerusalem. Silutan ko man kamo paagi sa inaway, gutom, kag balatian.
Mapatay kamo tanan, kamo nga mga nabilin nga buhi sa Juda nga nag-estar diri sa Egypt. Indi na kamo makabalik pa sa Juda, nga sa diin gusto ninyo makabalik liwat kag makaestar. Wala sing may makabalik sa inyo luwas sa pila lang nga makapalagyo.”
Madamo gid nga mga Judio ang nagtipon sa pagpamati kay Jeremias. Ini sila nagaestar sa north kag sa south sang Egypt. Karon, ang tanan nga lalaki nga nakahibalo nga ang ila mga asawa nagasunog sang insenso sa iban nga mga dios, kag ang tanan nga babayi nga nagatipon didto, nagsiling kay Jeremias,
“Indi kami magpamati sa ginasiling mo sa amon sa ngalan sang Ginoo Ginoo !
Himuon gid namon ang tanan nga gusto namon himuon: Magasunog kami sang insenso sa amon diosa nga amon diosa nga ‘Rayna sang Langit’ kag magahalad kami sa iya sang halad nga ilimnon pareho sang ginhimo namon sa mga banwa sang Juda kag sa mga dalan sang Jerusalem. Amo man ini ang ginhimo sang amon mga katigulangan kag sang amon mga hari kag mga opisyal. Sadto nga tion maayo ang amon kahimtangan; madamo kami sang pagkaon kag wala sing may malain nga natabo sa amon.
Pero sang mag-untat kami sunog sang insenso sa Rayna sang Langit kag wala na maghalad sang halad nga ilimnon sa iya, nawad-an kami sang tanan, kag nagakalamatay sa inaway kag gutom.”
Nagsiling man ang mga babayi, “Sang nagsunog kami sang insenso sa Rayna sang Langit kag naghalad sang halad nga ilimnon sa iya, kag nagluto sang tinapay sa iya dagway, nahibaluan ini sang amon bana.”
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: “Kamo mismo nakakita sang grabe nga kalaglagan nga ginpadala ko sa Jerusalem kag sa tanan nga banwa sang Juda. Guba na ini subong kag wala na sing may nagaestar
Dayon nagsiling si Jeremias sa ila tanan, sa mga lalaki kag mga babayi nga nagabulos-bulos sabat sa iya,
“Nagahunahuna bala kamo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo wala nakahibalo nga kamo kag ang inyo mga katigulangan, ang inyo mga hari kag mga opisyal, kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo nagsunog sang insenso sa mga banwa sang Juda kag sa mga dalan sang Jerusalem?
Kag sang indi na mabatas sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo kalautan kag ang inyo makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan, ginhimo niya ang inyo duta nga talamayon kag mamingaw, nga wala na sing may nagaestar, pareho sang natabo subong.
Natabo ini nga kalaglagan sa inyo tungod kay nagsunog kamo sang insenso kag nagpakasala sa Ginoo Ginoo . Wala kamo magtuman sa iya kasuguan ukon magsunod sa iya mga pagsulundan kag mga pagpanudlo.”
Nagsiling pa si Jeremias sa tanan nga tawo didto, pati sa mga babayi, “Pamatii ninyo ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo , kamo nga katawhan sang Juda nga nagaestar diri sa Egypt.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel: ‘Gintuman gid ninyo kag sang inyo mga asawa ang inyo ginpromisa nga magsunog sang insenso kag maghalad sang halad nga ilimnon sa Rayna sang Langit. Sige, padayuna ninyo ang inyo ginahimo. Tumana gid ninyo ang inyo ginpromisa.
Pero pamatii ninyo ang akon ginasiling, kamo nga katawhan sang Juda nga nagaestar diri sa Egypt. Ginasumpa ko sa akon kaugalingon nga wala na sing may makagamit sa inyo sang akon makagagahom nga ngalan. Wala na sing may makasumpa sing pareho sini: “Nagasumpa ako sa ngalan sang buhi nga Ginoong Dios Dios .”
Kay imbes nga bantayan ko kamo para sa inyo kaayuhan, halitan ko kamo. Magakalamatay kamo diri sa Egypt paagi sa inaway ukon gutom hasta nga wala sing may mabilin sa inyo.
Kon may mabilin gid man sa inaway kag makabalik sa Juda, diutay gid lang. Dayon mahibaluan sang mga nabilin nga katawhan sang Juda nga nagaestar subong diri sa Egypt kon kay sin-o pulong ang natuman—ang akon ukon ang ila.
Amo ini ang tanda nga silutan ko gid kamo sa sini nga lugar, para mahibaluan ninyo nga matuman gid ang kalaglagan nga ginsiling ko kontra sa inyo:
tungod sa kalautan nga ginhimo sang ila mga pumuluyo. Ginpaakig nila ako paagi sa pagsunog sang insenso kag pagsimba sa mga dios-dios nga wala gani nila makilal-i ukon sang ila mga katigulangan.
Itugyan ko si Faraon Hofra nga hari sang Egypt sa iya mga kaaway nga gusto magpatay sa iya, subong nga gintugyan ko si Haring Zedekia sang Juda sa iya kaaway nga si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia nga gusto man magpatay sa iya.’ ”
Permi ko sila ginapadal-an sang mga propeta nga akon mga alagad sa pagpaandam sa ila nga indi nila paghimuon inang makangilil-ad nga butang nga akon ginakaugtan.
Pero wala gid sila magpamati ukon magtuman sa mga propeta sa mga propeta . Wala sila magbiya sa ila kalautan ukon mag-untat sa pagsunog sang insenso sa iban nga mga dios.
Gani ginpaagom ko sa ila ang akon puwerte nga kaakig. Daw sa kalayo ini nga naglamon sa mga banwa sang Juda kag sa Jerusalem, kag nangin mamingaw ini nga mga lugar kag guba hasta subong.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagapamangkot: Ngaa ginalaglag ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon? Gusto bala ninyo nga maubos ang mga tawo sang Juda—ang mga lalaki, babayi, kabataan kag mga lapsag?
Ngaa nga ginapaakig gid ninyo ako sa inyo ginhimo nga mga dios-dios? Ginasunugan pa ninyo ini sang insenso diri sa Egypt, nga inyo ginaestaran subong. Ginalaglag lang ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon kag ginahimo nga kangil-aran kag kahuy-anan sa tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan.
Nalimtan na bala ninyo ang mga kalautan nga ginhimo sang inyo mga katigulangan kag sang mga hari kag mga rayna sang Juda, kag ang mga kalautan nga ginhimo ninyo kag sang inyo mga asawa sa Juda kag Jerusalem?
Sang ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoyakim nga anak ni Josia sa Juda, ginsulat ni Baruc sa linukot nga sululatan ang gindikta sa iya ni Propeta Jeremias.
Siling ni Jeremias, “Baruc, amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, sa imo:
‘Nagsiling ka nga kaluluoy ka, kay ginadugangan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang imo kasakit. Ginakapoy ka na sa pag-ugayong kag wala sing kapahuwayan.’
“Baruc, nagasiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Gub-on ko ang ini nga nasyon nga akon ginpatindog. Gabuton ko ang akon gintanom. Himuon ko ini sa bilog nga duta.
Ti, magahandom ka pa sang dalagko nga mga butang para sa imo kaugalingon? Indi na lang, kay padal-an ko sang kalaglagan ang tanan nga katawhan, pero ikaw ya luwason ko bisan diin ka makadto. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Propeta Jeremias parte sa mga nasyon:
Pero magadaog ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom sa sini nga inaway. Sa sini nga adlaw magabalos siya sa iya mga kaaway. Ang iya espada daw sa gutom nga sapat nga daw sa gutom nga sapat nga magalamon sa ila kag magainom sang ila dugo hasta nga mabusog. Ang ila mga bangkay daw sa mga halad para sa Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom didto sa kadutaan sa north, malapit sa Suba sang Euphrates.
“Kamo nga mga pumuluyo
Mahibaluan sang mga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan ang inyo kahuy-anan kag paghibi. Ang inyo mga soldado magakalatumba nga nagasinampawanay.”
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Propeta Jeremias parte sa pagsalakay ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia sa Egypt:
“ Jeremias, Jeremias, isugid ini sa Egypt. Isugid ini sa Migdol, sa Memfis kag sa Tapanhes: Magpreparar kamo kay ang espada handa na sa paglaglag sa inyo.
Ngaa bala nga nagpalalagyo ang inyo maisog nga mga soldado?
Ang inyo mga soldado magakalatumba nga nagasinampawanay. Magasiling sila, ‘Dali na, mapuli kita sa aton mga kasimanwa, sa duta nga aton natawhan, para makalikaw kita sa espada sang aton kaaway.’
Kag didto magasiling sila, ‘Ang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt palawakal lang, kag ginpaligad niya ang iya kahigayunan.’
“Ako, ang buhi nga Hari, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasumpa nga may magasalakay sa Egypt nga labaw gid sang sa iya, sa Egypt nga labaw gid sang sa iya, pareho sang Bukid sang Bukid sang Tabor sa tunga sang kabukiran, ukon sang Bukid sang Bukid sang Carmel sa higad sang baybay.
Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Egypt, maghimos na kamo sang inyo dalal-on, kay bihagon kamo. Malaglag ang Memfis kag mangin mamingaw ini kag wala sing may mabilin nga tawo.
Amo ini ang mensahi kontra sa mga soldado ni Faraon Neco nga hari sang Egypt. Ini sila ginpierdi ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia didto sa Carkemish malapit sa Suba sang Euphrates, sang ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoyakim nga anak ni Josia sa Juda:
Ang Egypt pareho sang bataon nga babayi nga baka, pero may sapat-sapat nga magasalakay sa iya halin sa north.
Bisan ang iya ginbayaran nga mga soldado magaisol kag magapalalagyo. Daw pareho lang sila sa bataon nga mga baka nga ginpatambok para ihawon. Matabo ini kay tion na nga silutan kag laglagon ang mga taga-Egypt.
Magapalagyo ang mga taga-Egypt nga daw sa man-og nga nagasagirit samtang nagasalakay ang mga kaaway. Ini sila magasalakay nga may mga wasay pareho sang mga tawo nga nagapanapas sang kahoy.
Pamatyon nila ang mga taga-Egypt nga daw sa nagapanapas sila sang mga kahoy nga madabong. Madamo pa sila sang sa mga apan; indi sila maisip.
Mahuy-an gid ang mga taga-Egypt. Itugyan sila sa mga kamot sang mga katawhan sa north.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, “Silutan ko na si Amon, ang dios-dios sang Tebes, kag ang iban pa nga dios-dios sang Egypt. Silutan ko man ang hari sang Egypt
Itugyan ko sila kay Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag sa iya mga opisyal nga gusto magpatay sa ila. Pero sa ulihi pagaestaran liwat ang Egypt pareho sang una. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Pero kamo nga mga Israelinhon nga mga kaliwat sang nga mga kaliwat sang akon alagad nga si Jacob, indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magpakulba. Kay luwason ko gid kamo halin sa malayo nga lugar nga sa diin ginbihag kamo. Magkabuhi kamo liwat nga malinong kag wala sing katalagman, kag wala na sing may magpahadlok sa inyo.
Gani indi gid kamo mahadlok, kamo nga mga kaliwat sang kamo nga mga kaliwat sang akon alagad nga si Jacob, kay kaupod ninyo ako. Laglagon ko sing bug-os ang tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin ginpalapta ko kamo, pero kamo indi ko paglaglagon sing bug-os. Disiplinahon ko kamo, pero suno sa nagakabagay sa inyo. Indi puwede nga indi ko kamo pagsilutan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Ipreparar ninyo ang inyo mga taming, dalagko kag gagmay, kag maglakat kamo sa inaway!
Ipreparar man ninyo ang inyo mga kabayo kag sakyi ninyo. Isuksok ang inyo mga helmet, baira ang inyo mga bangkaw, kag itakod ang inyo mga panaming.
Pero ano ining akon nakita? Nahadlok kamo kag nagaisol. Napierdi kamo kag nagpalalagyo sing madasig nga wala sing bulobalikid tungod sa kahadlok.
Makusog kamo kag madasig magdalagan, pero indi gihapon kamo makapalagyo. Malaglag gid kamo malapit sa Suba sang Euphrates.
“Ano ina nga nasyon nga nagagamhanan, nagagamhanan, pareho sang Suba sang Nilo nga nagaawas ang tubig hasta sa pangpang?
Ina amo ang Egypt; nagagamhanan ini pareho sang Suba sang Nilo nga nagataas ang tubig hasta sa pangpang. Nagsiling ang Egypt, ‘Nagagamhanan ako kag mangin pareho sa baha nga mangin pareho sa baha nga magatabon sa kalibutan. Laglagon ko ang mga siyudad kag mga katawhan sini.’
“Sige, mga taga-Egypt, padalagana na ninyo ang inyo mga kabayo kag mga karwahe! Magsalakay na kamo pati ang tanan ninyo nga kadampig halin sa Ethiopia,
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Propeta Jeremias parte sa Filistia sa wala pa ginsalakay sang hari sang Egypt
“May nasyon nga magasalakay halin sa north nga daw sa nagaawas nga ililigan sang tubig. Lapawan niya ang duta kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini, gani malaglag gani malaglag ang mga banwa kag ang mga pumuluyo sini. Magasinggit ang mga tawo sa kahadlok, kag magahibi sila sing mabaskog.
Mabatian nila ang paglinagapak sang tiil sang mga kabayo kag ang gahod sang mga karwahe. Ang mga amay indi na magbalikid sa pagbulig sa ila kabataan. Magahuyhoy na lang ang ila mga abaga.
Kay nag-abot na ang tion nga laglagon ang tanan nga Filistinhon kaupod ang ila mga kadampig halin sa Tyre kag Sidon. Laglagon gid sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Filistinhon, ang katawhan nga naghalin sa isla sang Caftor.
Ang mga taga-Gaza magapakalbo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo, kag ang mga taga-Ashkelon magahipos sing masinulub-on sing masinulub-on . Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sa kapatagan, hasta san-o pa bala ang pagpilas ninyo sang inyo kaugalingon sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo ?
Nagapamangkot kamo kon san-o pa ako mag-untat sa pagsilot sa inyo paagi sa akon espada? Ginasilingan ninyo ako nga ibalik ko ini sa iya tagob kag pabay-an lang kamo.
Pero paano ini mag-untat kay ginamanduan ko ini sa pagsalakay sa Ashkelon kag sa katawhan nga katawhan nga nagaestar malapit sa dagat?”
“Kaluluoy ang Nebo kay pagalaglagon ini. Mahuy-an kag agawon ang Kiriataim, kag ang iya dalangpan sa mataas nga lugar magakalarumpag.
Pakamalauton ang tawo nga nagapatumbaya sa paghimo sang buluhaton sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa Moab kontra sa Moab . Pakamalauton ang tawo nga wala nagapatay sa mga taga-Moab sa mga taga-Moab .
Matawhay ang pagkabuhi sang Moab halin sang una. Wala gid ini mabihag. Pareho ini sa bino nga wala pagtanduga ukon pag-ihuwad halin sa isa ka suludlan pakadto sa isa. Gani ang iya sabor amo gihapon.
“Pero magaabot ang tion nga magapadala ako sang mga kaaway nga magaula sang Moab halin sa iya suludlan kag magadugmok sini.
Dayon ikahuya sang Moab ang dios-dios nga ang dios-dios nga si Kemosh, subong nga ginkahuya sang katawhan sang Israel ang ila pagsalig sa dios-dios sa Betel.
Nagapabugal ang mga taga-Moab nga mga maisog ang ila mga soldado sa inaway.
Pero malaglag gid ang Moab kag ang mga banwa sini. Pamatyon ang pinakamaayo nila nga mga pamatan-on. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga Hari, ang nagasiling sini.
“Madali na lang ang kalaglagan sang Moab.
Magpangasubo kamo, tanan kamo nga kadampig sang Moab!
“Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Dibon, magpaubos kamo kag magpungko sa yab-ok, kay ang manuglaglag sang Moab magasalakay man man sa inyo kag panggub-on niya ang inyo napaderan nga mga banwa.
Kamo nga nagaestar sa Aroer, magtindog kamo sa higad sang dalan kag magbantay. Magpamangkot kamo sa mga nakapalagyo kon ano ang natabo.
Indi na pagdayawon ang Moab. Didto sa Heshbon nagaplano ang kaaway sa paglaglag sang Moab. Nagasiling sila, ‘Dali, laglagon ta ang Moab.’ Ang banwa sang banwa sang Madmen salakayon man sang mga kaaway kag mangin mamingaw ini.
Magasabat sila, Magasabat sila, ‘Nalaglag kag nahuy-an ang Moab. Gani magpangasubo kamo kag maghibi. Isinggit ninyo sa Arnon nga nalaglag ang Moab.’
“Pagasilutan man ang mga banwa sa mga banwa sa pulopatag sa ibabaw sang bukid: ang Holon, Jaza, Mefaat,
Dibon, Nebo, Bet Diblataim,
Kiriataim, Bet Gamul, Bet Meon,
Keriot kag Bozra. Magaabot na ang silot sa tanan nga banwa sang Moab, sa malayo man ukon sa malapit.
Wala na sing gahom ang Moab, gani maluya na ini subong. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Hubuga ang Moab, kay nagrebelde siya sa akon. Magaligid siya sa iya kaugalingon nga suka kag mangin kaladlawan siya.
Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Moab, Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Moab, indi bala nga ginyaguta ninyo ang Israel? Ngaa, nadakpan bala siya sa pagpangawat? Ti, ngaa nagalungo-lungo gid kamo sa pagyaguta sa iya?
Maghalin na kamo sa inyo mga banwa kag mag-estar sa pil-as,
Puwerte gid kamo ka bugalon. Nabatian ko kon daw ano kamo ka bugalon kag matinaas-taason.
Pamatii ninyo ang pagsinggit sa Horonaim tungod sa puwerte nga inaway kag kalaglagan.
Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nakahibalo kon daw ano kamo kahambog, pero wala ini sing pulos.
Gani magahibi ako para sa Moab kag sa mga taga-Kir Hareset.
Magahibi man ako para sa katawhan sang Sibma, sobra pa sa paghibi ko sa mga taga-Jazer. Sibma, pareho ka sang tanom nga ubas nga ang imo mga sanga naglambot sa tabok sang Patay nga Patay nga Dagat hasta sa Jazer. Pero karon gin-ubos panguha sang manuglaglag ang imo mga bunga.
Wala na sing may mabatian nga kinalipay kag sinadya sa mga uma kag sa mga talamnan sang ubas sa duta sang Moab. Wala na nagailig ang bino sa pulugaan sang ubas. Wala na sing may nagalinas sang ubas nga nagasininggit sa kalipay. May pagsininggit matuod pero indi pagsininggit sa kalipay.
Ang paghinibi sang mga taga-Heshbon mabatian hasta sa Eleale kag sa Jahaz. Ang paghinibi sang mga taga-Zoar mabatian hasta sa Horonaim kag sa Eglat Shelishiya. Kay bisan ang sapa sang Nimrim nagmala na.
Pauntaton ko sa Moab atong mga nagahalad sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar kag nagasunog sang insenso sa ila mga dios-dios. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Gani nagapangasubo gid ako para sa Moab kag sa mga taga-Kir Hareset, pareho sang masubo nga sunata sang sunata sang plawta sa patay sa patay . Wala na ang manggad nga ila naangkon.
Ang tagsa-tagsa nagapakita sang pagpangasubo paagi sa nagapakita sang pagpangasubo paagi sa pagpakalbo, pagpamarbas, pagpilas sang ila mga kamot, kag pagsuksok sang sako.
Nagahinibi ang mga tawo sa atop sang ila mga balay kag sa mga plasa, kay ginlaglag ko ang Moab nga daw sa banga nga ginbuka kay wala na sing may naluyag.
Daw ano ang pagkalaglag sang Moab! Pamatii ang paghinibi sang iya mga pumuluyo. Nahuy-an gid ang Moab, kag ginayaguta ini kag ginakangil-aran sang tanan nga nasyon nga nasyon sa palibot sini.”
Malaglag gid ang Moab, kag magahinibi ang mga kabataan.
Nagpadayon pa gid sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Tan-awa! Ang kaaway sang Moab pareho sang agila nga nagalupad sa pagdagit sini.
Maagaw ang mga banwa
Malaglag gid ang Moab tungod sa iya pagrebelde sa akon.
Ang dangatan sang mga taga-Moab amo ang kahadlok, buho, kag siod.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magpalagyo sa kahadlok mahulog sa buho. Ang bisan sin-o nga magguwa sa buho madakpan gihapon sa siod, kay silutan ko gid ang Moab sa gintalana nga tion. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Ang makaluluoy nga mga nakapalagyo gusto magpanago sa Heshbon. Pero ining Heshbon nga gin-gamhan anay ni Haring Sihon nagadabadaba sa kalayo. Ginalamon sang kalayo ang mga bukid nga ginapanaguan sang mga taga-Moab nga gusto sang inaway.
“Kaluluoy gid kamo, mga taga-Moab! Nalaglag kamo nga nagasimba sa dios-dios nga si Kemosh, kag ginbihag ang inyo kabataan.
Pero sa ulihi ibalik ko ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang Moab. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.” Amo ato ang mensahi parte sa Moab.
Ang mga pumuluyo sang Moab magahinibi sing tudo samtang nagapataklad sila sa Luhit kag nagapadulhog sa Horonaim. Huo, mabatian ang ila paghinibi tungod sa kalaglagan.
“Luwasa ang inyo kaugalingon! Magpalagyo kamo sa kamingawan.
Kamo nga mga taga-Moab, Kamo nga mga taga-Moab, nagasalig kamo sa inyo abilidad kag manggad, gani bihagon kamo pati ang inyo dios-dios nga ang inyo dios-dios nga si Kemosh kag ang iya sini nga mga pari kag mga opisyal.
“Magaabot ang manuglaglag sa kada banwa kag wala sing banwa nga makaluwas. Malaglag pati ang mga banwa sa mga banwa sa kapatagan kag sa pulopatag sa ibabaw sang bukid. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
May pakpak lang kuntani ang Moab para makalupad siya palayo,
“Kamo nga mga tawo nga nagasimba sa dios-dios nga si Molec, ngaa ginaestaran ninyo ang mga banwa sang duta ni Gad? Wala bala sing mga kaliwat si Israel nga magpanubli sang sini nga duta?
Pero ubuson gid kuha ang tanan nga pagkabutang sang mga kaliwat ni Esau. Kuhaan ko sang tabon ang ila palanaguan para wala sila sing panaguan. Magakalamatay ang ila kabataan, mga paryente, kag mga kasilingan. Wala sing may mabilin sa ila.
Pero ibilin sa akon ang inyo mga ilo kay tatapon ko sila. Kag ang inyo mga balo nga babayi makasalig gid sa akon.”
Nagpadayon pa gid sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon ang mga inosente gani magaantos, kamo pa ayhan? Silutan gid kamo!
Ginasumpa ko gid sa akon kaugalingon nga ang Bozra malaglag. Maurungan gid ang mga tawo sa kahimtangan sini kag yagutaon nila ini kag pakamalauton. Ang tanan nga banwa sini mangin guba hasta san-o. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nabatian ko ang balita halin sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga nagpadala siya sang mensahero sa mga nasyon sa pagpreparar sa ila sa inaway kag sa paghangkat sa ila sa pagsalakay sa nasyon sang Edom.
Kay siling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga taga-Edom, sa mga taga-Edom, “Himuon ko kamo nga mas kubos sang sa iban nga mga nasyon, kag pakalainon nila kamo.
Nagapabugal kamo nga nagaestar kamo sa batuhon kag mataas nga lugar. Pero sa inyo nga pagpabugal nga ina kag sa inyo pagpamahog sa iban, ginadayaan lang ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon. Kay bisan nga parehuon ninyo kataas sa pugad sang agila ang inyo ginaestaran, laglagon ko gihapon kamo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Maurungan gid ang mga tawo sa kahimtangan sang Edom. Ang tanan nga magaagi matingala nga daw sa indi makapati sa natabo sa sini nga nasyon.
Subong nga nalaglag ang Sodom kag Gomora kag ang mga banwa sa palibot sini, laglagon man ang Edom. Kag wala na gid sing tawo nga may mag-estar didto. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Salakayon ko gulpi ang Edom pareho sang leon nga halin sa kakahuyan sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan nga nagapakadto sa palahalban nga may madamo nga karnero nga may madamo nga karnero . Magapalalagyo sila kag padumalahan ko ang Edom sa tawo nga akon ginpili. Sin-o ang mapaanggid sa akon? Sin-o ang mangahas sa pagkontra sa akon? Sin-o ang pangulo nga magpamatok sa akon?
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga magaabot ang tion nga ipasalakay ko sa mga kaaway ang Raba. Ining inyo siyudad pagagub-on kag ang mga baryo sa palibot sini pagasunugon. Sa sini nga paagi mapalayas sang mga Israelinhon ang mga nagpalayas man man sa ila.
Gani pamatii ninyo ang ginaplano ko nga himuon kontra sa Edom, lakip na sa mga pumuluyo sang Teman: Ang ila mga kabataan bihagon, kag ang ila duta laglagon tungod sang ila ginhimo.
Sa puwerte nga pagkalaglag sang Edom magatay-og ang duta, kag ang ila paghinibi mabatian hasta sa Mapula nga Dagat.
Tan-awa! Ang kaaway pareho sang agila nga nagalupad sa pagdagit sa Bozra. Sa sina nga tion ang mga soldado sang Edom makulbaan pareho sang isa ka babayi nga manugbata.”
Amo ini ang mensahi parte sa Damascus: “Kinulbaan ang mga taga-Hamat kag taga-Arpad sa malain nga balita nga ila nabatian. Natublag sila kag indi mapahamtang pareho sang mabalod nga dagat.
Nagluya ang mga taga-Damascus kag nagpalagyo tungod sa kahadlok. Kakulba kag kasakit ang ila nabatyagan pareho sang isa ka babayi nga manugbata.
Ang bantog kag masinadyahon
“Magpreparar kamo kag salakaya ninyo ang Kedar! Laglaga ninyo ini nga katawhan sa east!
Pagaagawon ang ila mga tolda, mga pagkabutang kag mga kasapatan, pati mga camel. Magasinggit sila, ‘Ginalibutan kita sang aton aton makahaladlok nga mga kaaway nga mga kaaway .’
“Maghibi kamo sing tudo, kamo nga taga-Heshbon, kay nalaglag ang Ai. Maghibi man kamo nga taga-Raba! Magsuksok kamo sang sako kag magpakadto-pakari sa kilid sang pader sa pagpakita sang inyo pagpangasubo. Kay bihagon ang inyo dios-dios nga si Molec upod sa iya mga pari kag mga opisyal.
“Mga taga-Hazor, magdali-dali kamo sa pagpalagyo! Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga magpanago kamo sa mga kuweba. Nagplano sang malain kontra sa inyo si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagsugo sa ila, ‘Salakaya ang katawhan nga nagapatawhay-tawhay lang kag wala sing libog. Ang ila siyudad wala sing mga puwertahan ukon mga trangka kag nagakabuhi sila nga sila-sila lang.
Ang ila mga camel kag ang tanan nila nga kasapatan mangin inyo. Palaptahon ko bisan diin ini nga katawhan nga nagaestar sa malayo nga mga lugar
Mangin mamingaw nga lugar ang Hazor hasta san-o kag wala sing tawo nga mag-estar didto kundi ang talunon nga mga ido.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Propeta Jeremias parte sa Elam sadtong mag-umpisa sa paghari si Zedekia sa Juda.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Pamatyon ko ang mga manugpana sang Elam—ang pinakamaayo nila nga mga soldado.
Salakayon ang Elam sang mga kaaway halin sa tanan nga direksyon, kag palaptahon ko ang iya mga pumuluyo bisan diin. Pagabihagon sila sa tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan.
Laglagon ko sila paagi sa ila mga kaaway nga gusto magpatay sa ila. Huo, laglagon ko sila sa akon puwerte nga kaakig. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga ipasalakay ko sila sa mga kaaway hasta nga madula sila tanan.
Laglagon ko ang hari kag mga opisyal sang Elam, kag pagaharian ko ina nga lugar.
Pero sa ulihi ibalik ko ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang Elam. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Kamo nga mga maluibon, ngaa ginapabugal gid ninyo ang inyo mapatubason nga mga kapatagan? Nagasalig kamo sa inyo manggad kag nagasiling nga wala sing may magsalakay sa inyo.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom, magapadala sa inyo sang mga kaaway halin sa mga nasyon sa palibot ninyo sa pagpahadlok sa inyo. Palayason nila kamo sa inyo duta, kag wala gid sing may magbulig sa inyo nga mga nagpalagyo.
Pero sa ulihi ibalik ko ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang mga Ammonhon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Diin na bala ang mga maalamon sang Teman? Wala na bala sing may nabilin nga maayo maglaygay?
Kamo nga nagaestar sa Dedan magpalagyo kamo kag magpanago sa madalom nga mga kuweba. Kay padal-an ko sang kalaglagan ang mga kaliwat ni Esau sa tion nga silutan ko sila.
Indi bala nga ang mga nagapangharvest sang ubas wala nila ginaubos kuha ang mga bunga kundi ginabilinan nila? Kag indi bala nga ang mga kawatan ginakuha lang nila ang ila kinahanglan?
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jeremias parte sa Babilonia kag sa katawhan sini:
Agawon nila ang mga pagkabutang sang Babilonia, kag makapagusto gid sila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“ Kamo nga katawhan sang Babilonia, Kamo nga katawhan sang Babilonia, ginpanguhaan ninyo sang mga pagkabutang ang katawhan nga akon ginapanag-iyahan. Nagakalipay kamo kag nagasinadya pareho sang bataon nga babayi nga baka sa palahalban ukon sang kabayo nga nagahirihiri.
Pero pakahuy-an ko gid ang inyo nasyon.
Tungod sa akon kaakig, wala gid sing may mag-estar sa Babilonia kag mangin mamingaw gid ini nga lugar. Ang tanan nga magaagi maurungan gid kag magapanagutsot tungod sa tanan nga natabo sa sini nga nasyon.
“Kamo nga mga manugpana, magposisyon na kamo sa palibot sang Babilonia. Pan-a ninyo siya kay nakasala siya sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Magsinggit kamo kontra sa iya sa tanan nga direksyon. Tan-awa! Nagsurender na ang Babilonia! Nagkalarumpag na ang iya mga tore kag nagkalaguba ang iya mga pader. Pagbalos ini sang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya, gani balusi ninyo siya kag himua sa iya ang ginhimo niya sa iban.
Dulaa sa Babilonia ang mga manugtanom kag mga manug-ani. Luwasa ang mga bihag sa espada sang mga kaaway kag papalagyuha sila puli sa ila kaugalingon nga mga lugar.
“Ang mga Israelinhon pareho sang naglalapta nga mga karnero nga ginlagas sang mga leon. Una, gintukob sila sang hari sang Assyria, kag dayon ginkitkit ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia ang ila mga tul-an.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, nagasiling, ‘Silutan ko ang hari sang Babilonia, subong nga ginsilutan ko ang hari sang Assyria.
Pero pabalikon ko ang mga Israelinhon sa ila nasyon. Mangin pareho sila sa mga karnero nga magahalab sa Carmel, sa Bashan, kag sa mga kabukiran sang Efraim kag Gilead, kag mabusog gid sila.
“Isugid sa mga nasyon ang balita nga wala sing lipod-lipod! Kag ibayaw ang bandera bilang tanda nga maagaw ang Babilonia! Magakaladugmok kag mahuy-an gid ang iya mga dios-dios pati na si Bel kag si Marduk.
Sa sina nga tion, indi na makita ang mga sala kag paglapas sang mga nabilin nga katawhan sang Israel kag Juda, kay patawaron ko sila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Salakaya ninyo ang Merataim kag ang Pekod. Pamatya sila kag laglaga sing bug-os.
Mabatian ang singgit sang inaway kag ang gahod sang puwerte nga kalaglagan.
Ang Babilonia pareho sang martilyo nga nagpangdugmok sa mga nasyon, pero karon nadugmok na ini. Naurungan gid ang mga nasyon sang makita nila ang pagkalaglag sang Babilonia!
“Babilonia, nasiod ka sa ginbutang ko nga siod sa imo. Nadakpan ka tungod kay nagkontra ka sa akon.
Ginbuksan ko ang talaguan sang akon mga armas kag ginpaguwa ko ang mga armas sa akon kaakig. Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom, may pagahimuon sa imo, Babilonia.
“ Mga kaaway sang Babilonia Mga kaaway sang Babilonia nga halin sa malayo nga lugar, salakaya na ninyo ang Babilonia! Buksi ninyo ang iya mga bodega. Tumpuka ninyo ang inyo mga nakuha pareho sang pagtumpok sang uyas. Laglaga ninyo sing bug-os ang mga taga-Babilonia kag wala gid kamo sing ibilin.
Pamatya ninyo ang tanan nila nga mga soldado nga pareho sa mga soldado nga pareho sa bataon nga baka. Ihawa ninyo sila. Kaluluoy sila kay nag-abot na ang tion nga silutan sila.
“Pamatii ang mga tawo nga nakapalagyo halin sa Babilonia. Nagasugid sila sa Jerusalem
“Ipatawag ninyo ang mga manugpana sa pagsalakay sa Babilonia! Libuti ninyo ini para wala sing may makapalagyo. Balusi ninyo siya sa iya ginhimo. Himua ninyo sa iya ang iya ginhimo sa iban, kay ginkontra niya ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel.
Kay salakayon ang Babilonia sang isa ka nasyon halin sa north, kag mangin mamingaw ini nga lugar. Wala sing may mag-estar diri kay magpalalagyo ang mga tawo kag mga sapat.
Gani ang iya pamatan-on nga mga lalaki magakalamatay sa mga karsada. Sa sina nga tion, malaglag ang tanan niya nga soldado.
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom, nagasiling nga kontra ko ikaw, Babilonia nga Babilonia nga bugalon! Nag-abot na ang tion nga silutan ko ikaw.
Ikaw nga bugalon malaglag gid kag wala sing may magbulig sa pagpabangon sa imo. Sunugon ko ang imo mga banwa kag ang tanan nga baryo sa palibot sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Gindaogdaog ang katawhan sang Israel kag Juda. Ginbihag sila kag ginbantayan gid sing maayo nga indi makabalik sa ila lugar.
Pero gamhanan ako nga ila Manunubos; Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom ang akon ngalan. Apinan ko sila kag hatagan sang kalinong, pero gamuhon ko ang mga pumuluyo sang Babilonia.
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga ang espada sang kalaglagan magatupa sa katawhan sang Babilonia, pati sa iya mga opisyal kag maalamon nga mga tawo!
Magatupa man ini sa iya butigon nga mga propeta, kag magabuang-buang sila. Kag amo man sa iya mga soldado, kag mahadlukan gid sila!
Magatupa pa gid ini sa iya mga kabayo kag mga karwahe, kag sa tanan nga pangayaw nga kadampig niya. Kag magaluya magaluya sila pareho sa babayi! Magatupa man ini sa iya mga manggad, kag panguhaon ini.
Magamala ang tanan niya nga katubigan. Tungod kay ang Babilonia lugar nga may madamo gid nga mga makahaladlok nga dios-dios nga nagapabuang sa mga tawo.
“Pagaestaran na lang ang Babilonia sang talunon nga mga sapat, sang mga hyena, kag sang mga bukaw. Indi na gid mag-estar liwat ang mga tawo didto hasta san-o.
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga sa sina nga tion, ang katawhan sang Israel kag Juda magahibi sa pagdangop sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Subong nga ginlaglag ko ang Sodom kag Gomora, kag ang mga banwa sa palibot sini, laglagon ko man ang Babilonia laglagon ko man ang Babilonia . Wala na gid sing tawo nga may mag-estar didto. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Tan-awa! May mga soldado nga nagapadulong halin sa duta sa north. Isa ka gamhanan nga nasyon kag madamo nga hari halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan ang magakontra sa Babilonia.
Armado sila sang mga pana kag mga bangkaw. Mga mapintas sila kag wala sing kaluoy. Ang ila gahod pareho sang mabaskog nga balod samtang nagasakay sila sa ila mga kabayo. Magaabot sila nga handa sa pagsalakay sa inyo nga mga pumuluyo sang Babilonia.
Nabalitaan ini sang hari sang Babilonia, kag nagpalamuypoy ang iya mga kamot. Kahadlok kag kasakit ang iya nabatyagan pareho sang pagpasakit sang babayi nga manugbata.
“Salakayon ko gulpi ang Babilonia pareho sang leon nga halin sa kakahuyan sang Jordan nga nagapakadto sa palahalban nga may madamo nga karnero nga may madamo nga karnero . Magapalalagyo sila kag padumalahan ko ang Babilonia sa tawo nga akon ginpili. Sin-o ang mapaanggid sa akon? Sin-o ang mangahas sa pagkontra sa akon? Sin-o ang pangulo nga magpamatok sa akon?
Gani pamatii ang ginaplano ko nga himuon kontra sa Babilonia. Bisan ang ila mga kabataan bihagon kag ang ila duta malaglag.
Sa puwerte nga pagkalaglag sang Babilonia magatay-og ang duta, kag ang ila paghinibi mabatian sa iban nga mga nasyon.”
Magapamangkot sila sang dalan pakadto sa Jerusalem
“Ang akon katawhan pareho sang nadula nga mga karnero. Ginpabay-an sila sang ila mga manugbantay didto sa kabukiran kag indi na sila makatultol magpuli.
Ginasalakay sila sang makakita sa ila. Nagasiling ang ila mga kaaway, ‘Nakasala sila sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amo ang ila matuod nga palahuwayan kag ang paglaom sang ila mga katigulangan, gani wala kita sing sala sa aton pagsalakay sa ila.’
“Magpalagyo kamo halin sa Babilonia! Bayai ninyo ina nga nasyon! Mag-una kamo sa pagpalagyo!
Kay ipasalakay ko ang Babilonia sa grupo sang gamhanan nga mga nasyon halin sa north. Salakayon nila ang Babilonia kag maagaw nila ini. Matanda sila nga mga manugpana nga nagaigo gid sa ila ginapana.
Amo pa gid ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa Babilonia: “Hangkaton ko ang manuglaglag sa pagsalakay sa Babilonia kag sa iya katawhan.
Nagbalos ang Ginoo Ginoo para sa aton. Dali kamo, makadto kita sa Jerusalem
Magabalos ang Ginoo Ginoo sa Babilonia tungod sa pagguba nila sa iya templo. Ginhangkat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga hari sang Media sa paglaglag sa Babilonia kay amo ini ang iya tuyo. Siling niya, Siling niya, “Baira ninyo ang inyo mga pana kag ihanda ang inyo mga taming.
Ibayaw ang bandera bilang tanda sa pagsalakay sa Babilonia. Dugangi pa gid ninyo ang mga guwardya kag ibutang na sa ila mga puwesto ang mga manugbantay. Kibuna ninyo ang siyudad! Tion na nga himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginplano kontra sa katawhan sang Babilonia.”
Babilonia, Babilonia, madamo ang imo katubigan kag puwerte ang imo manggad. Pero nag-abot na ang imo katapusan, ang tion sang imo kalaglagan.
Nagsumpa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa iya kaugalingon nga nagasiling, “Ipasalakay ko gid kamo sa madamo nga kaaway nga pareho kadamo sa mga apan, kag magasinggit sila sing kadaugan kontra sa inyo.”
Ginhimo sang Dios ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan paagi sa iya gahom kag kaalam.
Sa iya pagmando, nagadaguob ang langit. Siya ang nagapaguwa sang mga gal-om halin sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan. Ginapakilat niya kon mag-ulan, kag nagapadala siya sang hangin halin sa iya mga talaguan.
Wala ini sing pulos, kag talamayon. Magaabot ang tion nga malaglag sila tanan.
Padal-an ko ang Babilonia sang mga taga-iban nga lugar sa pagsalakay kag paglaglag sa iya, pareho sang upa nga ginpapalid sa hangin. Salakayon nila ang Babilonia sa tanan nga direksyon sa sina nga tion sang kalaglagan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ikaw
ang mga kabayo kag mga manugkabayo, ang mga karwahe kag mga manugkarwahe.
Laglagon ko man paagi sa imo ang mga lalaki kag mga babayi, mga tigulang kag mga bata, kag mga soltero kag mga dalaga.
Laglagon ko pa gid paagi sa imo ang mga kasapatan kag ang mga manugbantay sini, ang mga mangunguma kag ang mga baka, kag ang mga pangulo kag mga opisyal.
“ Mga katawhan ko, Mga katawhan ko, ipakita ko sa inyo ang pagbalos ko sa Babilonia kag sa iya katawhan sa tanan nila nga malain nga ginhimo sa Jerusalem.
“Kontra ko ikaw, Babilonia, Babilonia, ikaw nga ginatawag Bukid nga Manuglaglag! Ginalaglag mo ang bilog nga kalibutan. Gamiton ko ang akon gahom sa pagkakas sa imo kag sunugon ko ikaw.
Wala gid sing bato nga makuha sa imo nga gamiton sa pagpatindog sang building. Mangin mamingaw ka hasta san-o. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ibayaw ang bandera bilang senyales sa pagsalakay! Patunuga ang budyong sa mga nasyon! Preparaha sila sa pagsalakay sa Babilonia. Pasalakaya ang mga soldado sang Ararat, Mini kag Ashkenaz. Magpili kamo sang pangulo sa pagsalakay sa Babilonia. Magpadala kamo sang mga kabayo nga pareho kadamo sa mga apan.
Papreparaha ang mga hari sang Media sa pagsalakay sa Babilonia, pati ang ila mga manugdumala kag mga opisyal, kag ang tanan nga nasyon nga sakop nila.
Ang Babilonia mangin pareho sa tawo nga nagakurog kag nagapamilipit sa kasakit tungod kay himuon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginplano kontra sa iya, nga wala na sing may mag-estar sa sini nga lugar kag mangin mamingaw na.
Indi na nila paghatagan sang kahigayunan ang mga manugpana sang Babilonia nga makagamit sang ila mga pana ukon sang ila mga taming. Wala gid sila sing may ibilin nga pamatan-on nga mga lalaki. Laglagon gid nila sing bug-os ang mga soldado sang Babilonia.
Magauntat ang mga soldado sang Babilonia sa pagpakig-away kag magapabilin na lang sila sa ila mga kuta. Madulaan sila sang kusog kag daw sa mga babayi na lang sila nga maluya nga maluya . Masunog ang mga balay sa Babilonia kag maguba ang mga trangka sang iya mga puwertahan.
Magasunod-sunod ang mga mensahero sa pagsugid sa hari sang Babilonia nga ang iya bilog nga siyudad naagaw na.
Naagaw ang mga talabukan sang suba. Nasunog ang mga palanaguan, kag nahadlok ang mga soldado.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang Dios sang Israel, “Ang Babilonia pareho sang trigo nga madali na lang anihon kag linason.”
Gani nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “ Mga katawhan sang Jerusalem, Mga katawhan sang Jerusalem, apinan ko gid kamo, kag magabalos gid ako para sa inyo. Pamalahon ko ang dagat kag ang mga tuburan sang Babilonia.
Mangin guba ini nga nasyon! Mangin makangilil-ad kag talamayon ina nga lugar, kag wala sing may mag-estar dira luwas lang sa talunon nga mga ido.
Ang mga taga-Babilonia magangurob pareho sang mga leon.
Kag sanglit gutom sila, papunsyonan ko sila. Hugbon ko sila, lipayon kag patulugon nga indi na makabugtaw pa. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Magahamyang ang ila mga bangkay nga pilason sa mga dalan.
Dal-on ko sila sa ilihawan para ihawon pareho sa mga karnero kag mga kanding.
Daw ano ang pagkalaglag sang Babilonia,
Lapawan sang nagalinagumba nga mga balod ang Babilonia.
Mangin mamingaw ang iya mga banwa, pareho sang desierto nga wala sing may nagaestar ukon bisan may nagaagi.
Silutan ko si Bel nga dios-dios nga dios-dios sang Babilonia. Ipasuka ko sa iya ang iya mga ginpanglamon.
“Mga katawhan ko, magpalagyo kamo halin sa Babilonia! Luwasa ninyo ang inyo kabuhi antes ko ipaagom ang akon kaakig.
Pero indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magkaluya kon mag-abot na ang mga balita parte sa inaway. Kay ang balita parte sa pag-ilinaway sang mga hari magaabot kada tuig.
Magaabot gid ang tion nga silutan ko ang mga dios-dios sang Babilonia. Mahuy-an gid ang bilog nga Babilonia, kag magahalamyang ang tanan nga bangkay sang iya katawhan.
Dayon magasinggit sa kalipay ang langit kag ang kalibutan, kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini, sa pagkalaglag sang Babilonia. Kay salakayon ini sang mga manuglaglag halin sa north. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Kinahanglan gid nga laglagon ang Babilonia tungod sa iya nga pagpamatay sa mga Israelinhon kag sa iban pa nga mga tawo sa kalibutan.
Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga Makagagahom, ang Balaan nga Dios sang Israel, wala nagsikway sa Israel kag Juda bisan ang ila mga duta puno sang kalautan.
Kamo nga nagkalabilin nga buhi, magpalagyo na kamo halin sa Babilonia kag indi kamo magpundo-pundo! Dumduma ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang Jerusalem bisan dira kamo sa malayo nga lugar.
Nagasiling kamo, Nagasiling kamo, ‘Nahuya kami. Gin-insulto kami kag ginpakahuy-an tungod kay ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo gindagtaan sang mga indi Israelinhon.’
Pero magaabot gid ang tion nga silutan ko ang mga dios-dios sang Babilonia. Kag ang mga pag-ugayong sang mga napilasan nga mga taga-Babilonia mabatian sa bilog nila nga lugar.
Bisan lab-ot pa ang mga pader sang Babilonia sa kahawaan, kag bisan pag-unon pa niya ini, padal-an ko gihapon siya sang mga manuglaglag. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Mabatian sa Babilonia ang mga paghinibi tungod sa pagkalaglag sini.
Laglagon ko ang Babilonia, kag magahipos ini. Magasalakay sa iya ang mga kaaway nga daw sa nagahuganas nga mga balod. Mabatian ang pagsininggit sang ila pagsalakay.
Magaabot ang manuglaglag sang Babilonia kag madakpan ang iya mga soldado, kag magakalabali ang ila mga pana. Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang Dios nga nagasilot sa malain. Kag silutan ko gid ang Babilonia sa nagakabagay sa iya.
Hugbon ko ang iya mga opisyal, mga maalamon nga mga tawo, mga manugdumala, mga kumander, kag ang iya mga soldado. Matulugan sila kag indi na makabugtaw pa. Ako, Ako, ang Hari, ang nagasiling sini. Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom ang akon ngalan.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Pagarumpagon ang madamol nga mga pader sang Babilonia, kag pagasunugon ang mataas niya nga mga puwertahan. Ang tanan nga ginpangabudlayan sang iya katawhan mangin wala sing pulos, kay masunog man lang ini.”
Amo ini ang mensahi nga ginsiling ni Jeremias kay Seraya nga isa sa mataas nga opisyal ni Haring Zedekia. Si Seraya anak ni Neria kag apo ni Masea. Ini nga mensahi ginsiling ni Jeremias sang nagkadto si Seraya sa Babilonia upod kay Haring Zedekia. Ikaapat sadto nga tuig sang paghari ni Zedekia sa Juda.
“Palagyo kamo halin sa Babilonia! Luwasa ninyo ang inyo kabuhi! Indi pagpabay-i ang inyo kaugalingon nga mapatay tungod sang sala sang Babilonia. Tion na nga balusan ko siya suno sa nagakabagay sa iya ginhimo.
Ginsulat ni Jeremias sa linukot nga sululatan ang tanan nga kalaglagan nga magaabot sa Babilonia—ang tanan gid nga matabo sa Babilonia.
Amo ini ang ginsiling ni Jeremias kay Seraya, “Kon mag-abot ka sa Babilonia, siguruha nga mabasa mo sing mabaskog sing mabaskog sa mga tawo ang nasulat sa sini nga kasulatan.
Dayon magpangamuyo ka, ‘O Ginoo Ginoo , nagsiling ka nga laglagon mo ini nga lugar, para wala sing bisan sapat ukon tawo nga mag-estar diri kag mangin mamingaw ini hasta san-o.’
Pagkatapos mo basa sini, tabiri ini sang bato kag ihaboy dayon sa Suba sang Suba sang Euphrates.
Diri natapos ang mensahi ni Jeremias.
Pareho siya sa kupa nga bulawan sa akon kamot nga puno sang bino. Ginpainom niya ang mga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan kag nagkalahubog sila kag nagbuluang.
Malaglag gulpi ang Babilonia! Magpangasubo kamo sa iya! Magkuha kamo sang bulong para sa iya mga pilas kay basi pa lang mag-ayo siya.”
Nagsiling ang mga Israelinhon nga nagaestar didto, Nagsiling ang mga Israelinhon nga nagaestar didto, “Gintinguhaan namon nga bulngon ang Babilonia pero indi na gid ini mabulong. Bayaan ta na lang siya kag magpuli kita sa tagsa-tagsa ta ka lugar. Kay lambot na sa langit ang iya mga sala; gani silutan na siya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Didto sa Ribla, ginpapatay sang hari sang Babilonia ang mga anak nga lalaki ni Zedekia sa iya mismo atubangan. Ginpapatay man niya ang tanan nga opisyal sang Juda.
Ginpalukat niya ang mga mata ni Zedekia kag ginpakadenahan siya kag gindala sa Babilonia. Didto siya ginpriso hasta nga napatay.
Sang ikanapulo nga adlaw sang ikalima nga bulan, sadtong ika-19 nga tuig sang paghari ni Nebucadnezar sa Babilonia, nagkadto sa Jerusalem si Nebuzaradan nga kumander sang mga guwardya sang hari sang Babilonia.
Ginsunog niya ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo , ang palasyo, ang tanan nga balay sa Jerusalem, kag ang tanan nga importante nga mga building.
Kag ginbihag niya ang nabilin nga mga tawo sa siyudad, pati ang iban nga pinakaimol nga mga tawo kag ang mga tawo nga nagdampig sa hari sang Babilonia.
Gin-guba sang mga taga-Babilonia ang ini nga mga butang sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo : ang saway nga mga haligi, ang saway nga mga karo nga ginagamit sa paghakot sang tubig, kag ang dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga saway nga ginatawag ginatawag Dagat. Kag gindala nila ang mga saway sa Babilonia.
Ginkuha man nila ang mga kalaha, mga pala, mga pang-utod sa pabilo, mga yahong, mga tasa,
Ginkuha man ni Nebuzaradan ang mga labador, mga bulutangan sang baga, mga yahong, mga kolon, mga bulutangan sang suga, mga tasa, mga yahong nga ginagamit sa pag-ula sang mga halad nga ilimnon, kag ang iban pa nga bulawan kag pilak nga mga kagamitan.
Daw halos indi makilo ang mga saway nga halin sa duha ka haligi, sa dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag dako nga suludlan sang tubig nga ginatawag Dagat, sa dose ka turo-turo nga baka nga tulungtungan sini, kag sa mga karo nga ginagamit sa paghakot sang tubig. Ini nga mga butang ginpahimo sadto ni Solomon para sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang kataason sang kada haligi 27 feet kag ang palibot nga takos 18 feet. Guhab ini sa sulod, kag ang kadamulon sang saway mga 4 inches.
Ang kataason sang saway nga ulo-ulo sang kada haligi 7 feet kag 6 inches. Ini nga mga ulo-ulo nadekorasyunan sang mga kulokadena nga nagatinabid kag napalibutan sang mga puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata nga saway.
Sa kilid sang kada haligi may 96 ka puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata, kag may isa ka gatos tanan ka puloprutas nga puloprutas nga pomegranata nga nagapalibot sa kulokadena nga nagatinabid sa ulo-ulo sang haligi.
Kag amo pa gid ini ang iya mga nakita kag ginbihag sa siyudad: ang opisyal sang mga soldado sang Juda, ang pito sa mga manugdumala sang hari, ang kumander nga nagapanguha sa mga tawo nga mangin soldado, kag ang 60 pa ka pumuluyo didto.
Sang ika-37 nga tuig sang pagkabihag ni Haring Jehoyakin sang Juda, nangin hari sang Babilonia si Evil Merodac. Ginbuy-an niya si Jehoyakin sang ika-25 nga adlaw sang ika-12 nga bulan sadto nga tuig.
Maayo siya kay Jehoyakin, kag ginpadunggan niya siya labaw sang sa iban nga mga hari nga ginbihag man didto sa Babilonia.
Kag kada adlaw ginahatagan siya sang hari sang Babilonia sang iya mga kinahanglanon hasta sa tion nga napatay siya.
Gani sang ikasiyam nga tuig sang iya paghari, sang ikanapulo nga adlaw sang ikanapulo nga bulan, nagsalakay si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag ang iya bilog nga soldado sa Jerusalem. Nagkampo sila sa guwa sang siyudad kag naghimo sang mga tore-tore sa palibot sini.
Karon, ginrumpag sang mga taga-Babilonia
pero ginlagas sila sang mga soldado sang Babilonia, kag naabtan sila sa kapatagan sang Jerico. Nagbululag kay Zedekia ang tanan niya nga soldado,
kag nadakpan siya. Gindala siya sa hari sang Babilonia sa Ribla, sa duta sang Hamat, kag didto ginsentensyahan.
Daw ano kamingaw sang Jerusalem, nga sang una madamo sang tawo. Bantog ini anay sa bilog nga kalibutan, pero subong pareho na sa isa ka balo nga babayi. Sang una amo ini ang nagapanguna nga siyudad, pero subong pareho na ini sa ulipon.
Ginpanguha sang kaaway ang tanan niya nga manggad. Nakita niya nga nagsulod ang mga indi Israelinhon sa iya templo—mga tawo nga ginbawalan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga magsulod sa templo.
Ang iya katawhan nagaugayong samtang nagapangita sila sang pagkaon. Ginbaylo nila sang pagkaon ang ila manggad para mabuhi lang sila. Nagsiling ang Jerusalem, Nagsiling ang Jerusalem, “O Ginoo Ginoo , talupangda ako, kay ginapakahuy-an ako.”
Nagsiling man siya Nagsiling man siya sa mga tawo nga nagalabay, “Baliwala lang bala ini sa inyo? Tan-awa ninyo kon may makita kamo nga nagaantos pareho sa akon. Ini nga pag-antos ginhatag sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon sa tion sang iya puwerte nga kaakig.
Halin sa langit nagpadala siya sang kalayo nga daw sa nagsunog sa akon mga tul-an. Ginbutangan niya sang siod ang akon alagyan kag nasiod ako. Ginhimo niya ako nga mamingaw, nga nagaantos sa bilog nga adlaw.
Gintipon niya ang akon mga sala kag daw sa ginhimo nga higot. Kag ini ang nagguyod sa akon sa pagkabihag. Daw pareho lang nga ginbutangan ako sang gota sa liog. Ginpaluya ako sang Ginoo kag gintugyan sa akon akon mga kaaway nga kaaway nga indi ko masarangan.
Ginsikway sang Ginoo ang tanan ko nga soldado. Nagtipon siya sang mga soldado sa paglaglag sang akon pamatan-on nga mga lalaki. Ang mga pumuluyo
Amo ina nga nagatululo ang akon mga luha sa paghibi. Wala gid sing may nagalipay kag nagapabaskog sa akon. Kaluluoy ang mga pumuluyo kay ginpierdi sila sang kaaway.”
Nagpangayo sang bulig ang Jerusalem, pero wala gid sing may nagbulig sa iya. Ginbuot sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ang mga nasyon sa palibot sang mga kaliwat ni Jacob mangin ila kaaway. Kabigon nila ang Jerusalem nga isa ka mahigko nga butang.
Nagsiling ang Jerusalem, Nagsiling ang Jerusalem,
Nagpangayo ako sang bulig sa akon mga kadampig pero gintraiduran nila ako. Nagkalamatay ang akon mga pari kag mga manugdumala sa siyudad samtang nagapangita sila sang pagkaon para mabuhi lang sila.
Pareho siya sa babayi nga nagahibubun-ot sa bilog nga gab-i; ang iya mga luha nagaililig sa iya guya. Wala gid sang bisan isa sa iya mga nobyo nga naglipay sa iya. Gintraiduran siya sang tanan niya nga abyan kag nangin kaaway niya sila.
“Tan-awa, Ginoo Ginoo , kon daw ano ang akon kasubo! Puwerte gid ang akon kasakit nga daw sa ginakumos ang akon tagipusuon, tungod kay nangin masinupakon gid ako sa imo. May pagpamatay sa akon mga akon mga karsada, kag bisan sa sulod sang balay may nagakapatay.
Nabatian sang mga tawo ang akon pag-ugayong, pero wala gid sing isa nga nagalipay sa akon. Nabatian sang tanan ko nga kaaway ang akon pag-antos, kag nagkinalipay sila sa sining imo ginhimo sa akon. Kabay pa nga mag-abot na ang adlaw nga imo ginpromisa nga silutan mo sila nga silutan mo sila , para mangin pareho man sila sa akon.
Tan-awa ang ila malain nga ginahimo, kag siluti sila pareho sang pagsilot mo sa akon tungod sang tanan ko nga sala. Wala untat ang akon pag-ugayong kag nagasakit ang akon balatyagon.”
Ginpaantos ang Juda kag ginbihag ang iya katawhan. Didto na sila nagaestar sa iban nga mga nasyon nga sa diin mabudlay ang ila kahimtangan. Ginlagas sila sang ila mga kaaway kag wala sila sang palagyuhan.
Ang mga dalan pakadto sa Jerusalem
Ang iya mga kaaway amo na ang nagapangulo sa iya, kag ini sila nagmainuswagon. Ginpaantos sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Jerusalem tungod sa iya madamo nga sala. Ang iya mga pumuluyo ginbihag sang iya iya mga kaaway.
Nadula na ang katahom sang Jerusalem.
Karon nga ara sa kalisod ang Jerusalem kag nagatalang-talang, nadumduman niya ang tanan niya nga manggad sang una. Sang nahulog siya sa kamot sang iya mga kaaway, wala sing may nagbulig sa iya. Ginyaguta siya kag ginkadlawan sang iya mga kaaway sa iya pagkalaglag.
Dako gid ang sala sang Jerusalem, gani nangin mahigko ini. Ang tanan nga nagpadungog sa iya sadto nagainsulto na sa iya, tungod nakita nila ang iya kahuy-anan.
Ang iya pagkahigko nakita sang tanan. Wala niya ginhunahuna ang iya dangatan. Puwerte gid ang iya pagkalaglag, kag wala gid sing may nagbulig sa iya. Gani nagsiling siya, Gani nagsiling siya, “O Ginoo Ginoo , talupangda ang akon pag-antos, kay nadaog ako sang kaaway.”
Sa kaakig sang Ginoo gintabunan niya sang gal-om ang Jerusalem
Ang mga manugdumala sang Jerusalem nagapungko sa duta nga wala gid nagahambal. Ginbutangan nila sang mga yab-ok ang ila mga ulo kag nagsuksok sila sang sako sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo . Ang pamatan-on nga mga babayi sang Jerusalem nagaduko sa kahuya sa kahuya .
Nagapalamarok ang akon mga mata sa paghibi. Nagasakit ang akon balatyagon. Daw sa mabuka ang akon dughan tungod sa kalaglagan sang akon kasimanwa. Nagakalalipong sa mga karsada sang siyudad ang mga kabataan kag mga lapsag.
Nagahinibi sila nga nagapangayo sang pagkaon kag ilimnon sa ila mga iloy. Nagakalipong sila sa mga karsada sang siyudad pareho sang mga soldado nga napilasan. Kag amat-amat sila nga nagakalamatay sa sabak sang ila iloy.
Mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem
Ang mga mensahi sang inyo mga propeta indi matuod, wala sing pulos kag nagapatalang sa inyo. Wala nila ginpahayag ang inyo mga mga sala para indi kuntani kamo mabihag.
Ang tanan nga nagaagi sa inyo nagapamalakpak, nagapanagutsot, kag nagalungo-lungo sa pagyaguta sa Jerusalem. Siling nila, Siling nila, “Amo bala ini ang siyudad nga ginatawag ‘Pinakamatahom’ kag ‘Kalipay sang Bug-os nga Kalibutan?’ ”
Ang tanan ninyo nga kaaway nagayaguta sa inyo. Nagapanagutsot sila kag nagabagrot sang ila ngipon kag nagasiling, “Nalaglag na naton ang Jerusalem! Amo na ini ang adlaw nga aton ginahulat; kag karon nakita gid naton!”
Ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya ginplano nga himuon. Gintuman gid niya ang iya ginsiling sang una. Ginlaglag niya kamo nga wala sing luoy-luoy. Ginpalipay niya ang inyo mga mga kaaway sa inyo kalaglagan kag gintugutan niya nga magpabugal sila sa ila ikasarang.
Mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem,
Magbangon kamo sa gab-i kag magpangayo sang bulig sa Ginoo. Ipautwas ang tanan ninyo nga balatyagon sa iya, nga daw sa nagabubo kamo sang tubig. Ibayaw ang inyo mga kamot sa pagpangamuyo para sa kabuhi sang inyo mga kabataan nga nagakalipong sa gutom sa mga karsada.
Ginlaglag niya nga wala sing luoy-luoy ang tanan nga balay sang mga kaliwat ni Jacob. Sa iya kaakig ginpangguba niya ang napaderan nga mga banwa sang mga pumuluyo
O Ginoo Ginoo , tan-awa kami. Hunahunaa bala kon sin-o ang ginpaantos mo nga pareho sini. Sa puwerte nga kagutom, ginkaon sang mga iloy ang ila mga kabataan nga ila gin-atipan. Ang mga mga pari kag mga mga propeta ginpamatay sa imo templo.
Nagahalamyang sa mga karsada ang mga bangkay sang mga bata kag tigulang. Nagkalamatay sa inaway ang mga pamatan-on nga mga lalaki kag babayi. Ginpamatay mo sila nga wala sing luoy-luoy tungod sa imo kaakig.
Gin-imbitar mo ang mga kaaway sa pagsalakay sa akon palibot nga daw sa nagaimbitar ka lang sa punsyon. Sa adlaw nga ginpakita mo ang imo kaakig, wala gid sing may nakapalagyo ukon nabuhi. Ginpamatay sang akon mga kaaway ang akon mga kabataan nga gin-atipan kag ginpadako.
Sa puwerte niya nga kaakig gindula niya ang tanan nga gahom sang Israel. Wala niya ini pagbuligi sang ginsalakay sang kaaway. Pareho siya sa kalayo nga naglamon sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob kag sa tanan nga butang sa ila palibot.
Ginapuntirya niya ang iya pana sa iya katawhan, subong nga kaaway niya. Ginpamatay niya ang tanan nga ginapakamahal sang iya katawhan. Ginpaagom niya ang iya puwerte nga kaakig nga daw sa kalayo sa mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem.
Ginlaglag sang Ginoo ang Israel nga daw pareho siya sa kaaway. Gin-guba niya ang napaderan nga mga banwa sang Israel kag ang tanan nga mabakod nga parte sini. Gindugangan pa gid niya ang kasubo kag paghinibi sa Juda.
Gin-guba niya ang iya templo nga daw sa payag lang sa uma. Ginbuot niya nga kalimtan sang katawhan sang Jerusalem ang natalana nga mga piesta kag mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Sa iya puwerte nga kaakig ginsikway niya ang mga mga hari kag mga mga pari.
Ginsikway sang Ginoo ang iya halaran kag ang iya templo. Ginpaguba niya sa mga kaaway ang mga pader sang mabakod nga mga parte sang Jerusalem. Nagsininggit ini nga mga kaaway sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga daw nagasaulog sila sang piesta.
Determinado ang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagguba sang mga pader sa palibot sang Jerusalem. Ginplano niya sing maayo ang pagguba sini, kag ginhimo gid niya ini. Gani nagkalaguba ang mga depensa kag mga pader.
Natabunan sang duta ang mga puwertahan sang siyudad. Nagkalaguba ang mga trangka sini, kay ginpangbali ini sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginpangbihag ang hari kag ang dungganon nga mga tawo sang Jerusalem. Wala na ginatudlo ginatudlo ang kasuguan. Kag wala na sing mensahi ang mga propeta halin sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Isa ako nga nakaeksperiensya sang pagsilot sang Ginoo Ginoo tungod sa iya kaakig.
Pareho siya sa bear ukon leon nga nagapanago kag nagahulat sa pagtukob sa akon.
Gin-guyod niya ako palayo sa dalan, dayon ginus-ab kag ginbayaan.
Ginbinat niya ang iya pana kag ginpuntirya sa akon.
Ginpana niya ako kag naglapos gid sa akon tagipusuon.
Nangin kaladlawan ako sa akon mga kasimanwa. Ginayaguta nila ako sa bilog nga adlaw paagi sa kanta.
Puro lang kasakit ang ginhatag niya sa akon.
Nagkalabingaw ang akon mga ngipon tungod ginpakaon niya ako sang graba, kag ginlapak-lapak niya ako sa duta.
Ginkuha niya sa akon ang maayo nga kahimtangan, kag wala ko na maeksperiensyahan ang kabuganaan.
Nadula na ang akon kadungganan kag ang tanan nga ginlauman ko sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Mapait panumdumon ang akon pag-antos kag pagtalang-talang.
Gintabog niya ako palayo kag ginpalakat sa kadulom imbes sa kasanag.
Kon panumdumon ko ini permi, nagapalangluya ako.
Pero nagabalik ang akon paglaom kon madumduman ko nga
ang gugma kag kaluoy sang Ginoo Ginoo wala sing katapusan. Amo ina nga wala kita malaglag sing bug-os.
Matutom gid ang Ginoo Ginoo . Ginapakita niya ang iya kaluoy kada adlaw.
Nagasiling ako sa akon kaugalingon, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang tanan sa akon, gani magalaom ako sa iya.”
Ang Ginoo Ginoo maayo sa mga nagalaom kag nagadangop sa iya.
Maayo nga maghulat kita nga may pagbatas sa pagluwas sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton.
Maayo para sa isa ka tawo ang magpadisiplina samtang bataon pa siya.
Kon ginadisiplina kita sang Ginoo Ginoo magpungko kita nga nagaisahanon kag magpamalandong.
Magpaubos kita sang aton kaugalingon sa atubangan sang Ginoo sa atubangan sang Ginoo Ginoo kag indi madulaan sang paglaom.
Ginsilutan niya ako nga wala sing untat adlaw-gab-i.
Kon may magtampa sa imo, itaya ang imo guya. Kag batuna ang pag-insulto sang imo mga kaaway.
Kay ang Ginoo indi magsikway sa aton hasta san-o.
Bisan tuod nagahatag siya sang kalisod, ginapakita niya gihapon ang kaluoy tungod sa iya dako nga gugma nga wala sing katapusan.
Kay wala siya nagakalipay sa pagpaantos kag sa pagsakit sa aton.
Indi man gusto sang Ginoo nga indi paghatagan sang hustisya si bisan sin-o. Nakita niya ini tanan nga butang.
Wala sing may makasiling nga matabo ang isa ka butang kon indi ini pag-itugot sang Ginoo.
Indi bala nga ang Labing Mataas nga Dios ang nagabuot kon matabo ang isa ka malain ukon maayo nga butang?
Ngaa bala nagareklamo kita kon ginasilutan kita tungod sang aton mga sala?
Ginpaluya niya ang bilog ko nga lawas, kag ginbali ang akon mga tul-an.
Dapat usisaon ta ang aton pagginawi kag magbalik sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Buksan ta ang aton mga tagipusuon kag ibayaw ang aton mga kamot sa Dios sa langit kag magsiling kag magsiling ,
“Nakasala kami kag nagrebelde, Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , kag wala mo kami pagpatawara.
Naakig ka gid kag ginlagas mo kami kag ginpamatay nga wala sing luoy-luoy.
Nagpanabon ka sang panganod, para indi mo mabatian ang amon pangamuyo.
Ginhimo mo kami nga daw basura sa panulok sang iban nga mga nasyon.
Ginyaguta kami sang tanan namon nga kaaway.
Nag-antos kami sa kahadlok, katalagman, kapierdihan, kag kalaglagan.”
Nagaililig ang akon mga luha tungod nalaglag ang akon mga kasimanwa.
Padayon nga magailig ang akon luha
Ginsalakay niya ako kag puwerte ang akon kasakit kag kabudlayan.
hasta talupangdon kita sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa langit.
Nagasakit ang akon balatyagon sa gindangatan sang mga babayi sa amon
Daw pareho ako sa pispis nga ginlagas sang akon mga kaaway bisan wala ako sing may nahimo nga sala sa ila.
Gintinguhaan nila ako nga patyon paagi sa paghulog sa akon paagi sa paghulog sa akon sa buho kag pagbato sa akon.
Daw sa malumos ako sa tubig, kag abi ko mapatay na ako.
Halin sa kadadalman sang buho nagpanawag ako sa imo, O Ginoo Ginoo .
Ginpamatian mo ang akon pagpakitluoy kag ang pagpangayo sang bulig.
Nag-abot ka sang nagpanawag ako sa imo, kag nagsiling ka nga indi ako magkahadlok.
Ginoo, ginbuligan mo ako sa akon kaso kag ginluwas mo ang akon kabuhi.
Nakita mo, Ginoo Ginoo , ang kalautan nga ginhimo sa akon sang akon mga kaaway sang akon mga kaaway , gani hatagi ako sang hustisya.
Ginpaestar niya ako sa kadudulman pareho sadtong madugay na nga napatay.
Nahibaluan mo kon daw ano ang ila pagbalos sa akon kag ang tanan nila nga plano kontra sa akon.
O Ginoo Ginoo , nabatian mo ang pagpang-insulto nila sa akon. Nahibaluan mo ang tanan nila nga plano kontra sa akon—
ang mga padihot nga ila ginaestoryahan sa bilog nga adlaw kontra sa akon.
Tan-awa sila! Ginayaguta nila ako paagi sa kanta, nagapungko man sila ukon nagatindog.
Siluti sila, Ginoo Ginoo , suno sa nagakabagay sa ila ginhimo.
Patig-aha ang ila tagipusuon kag pakamalauta sila.
Lagsa sila kag laglaga sa imo kaakig para madula sila sa kalibutan.
Ginpakadenahan niya ako kag ginpalibutan sang pader para indi ako makapalagyo.
Bisan magpangayo pa ako sang bulig, wala niya ako ginapamatian.
Ginbalabagan niya sang mga bato nga binasbasan ang akon alagyan, kag ginpaliko-liko niya ang akon ginaagyan.
Pag-abot sang kalaglagan sa akon mga kasimanwa, bisan bisan ang mabinalak-on nga mga iloy nagluto sang ila kaugalingon nga mga anak para kaunon tungod sa puwerte nga kagutom tungod sa puwerte nga kagutom .
Ginpaagom sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya bug-os nga kaakig sa Zion. Gani ginsunog niya ini hasta ang mga pundasyon sini.
Indi makapati ang mga hari sa bilog nga kalibutan kag ang ila mga katawhan nga makasulod ang mga kaaway sa mga puwertahan sang Jerusalem.
Pero natabo ini tungod sa mga sala sang ila mga propeta kag mga pari, nga nagpamatay sang inosente nga mga tawo.
Kag karon nagapangapkap sila sa mga karsada pareho sang bulag. Nabulit sang dugo ang ila mga bayo, gani wala sing may nagapangahas nga magtandog sa ila.
Ginasinggitan sila sang mga tawo, “Palayo kamo! Mga mahigko kamo! Indi ninyo kami pagtanduga.” Gani nagpalagyo sila kag bisan diin na lang sila nga nasyon nagkadto; pero wala gid sang may nagbaton sa ila.
Ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo ang nagpalapta sa ila, wala na sila ginasapak sang Ginoo Ginoo . Wala na ginarespeto kag ginapakitaan sang kaayo ang mga pari kag mga manugdumala.
Nagapalangdulom na ang amon mga panulok sa paghulat sang bulig sang amon kadampig nga mga nasyon, pero wala gid sila nagbulig sa amon. Nagbantay kami sa amon mga tore sa pag-abot sang nasyon nga indi man lang makaluwas sa amon.
Ginabantayan sang mga kaaway ang amon mga hulag. Indi kami makalakat sa mga dalan. Dali na lang ang amon katapusan. Naisip na ang amon mga inadlaw.
Mas madasig pa sang sa mga agila ang amon mga kaaway nga nagalagas sa amon. Ginalagas nila kami hasta sa mga bukid. Kag bisan sa kamingawan kami didto man sila nagahulat sa pagsalakay sa amon.
Nadakpan nila sa ila patibong ang amon hari nga amon hari nga ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo , nga ginasaligan namon nga magprotektar sa amon kontra kontra sa mga kaaway nga mga kaaway nga mga nasyon.
Sige, magkalipay kamo kag magsinadya, kamo nga katawhan sang Edom nga nagaestar sa duta sang Uz. Pero ipainom man sa inyo ang kupa sang silot sang Ginoo sang silot sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag mahubog kamo kag mahublasan.
Bisan ang talunon nga mga ido
Tungod sa kauhaw ang dila sang ila ila mga lapsag nagapilit sa ila mga alingagngag. Nagapangayo ang mga kabataan sang pagkaon, pero wala gid sing may nagahatag sa ila.
Ang mga tawo nga nagakaon anay sang manamit nga pagkaon, nagapangayo na lang subong sang pagkaon sa mga tawo sa dalan. Atong mga nagdako nga manggaranon, nagaukay na lang subong sang pagkaon sa basurahan.
Ang silot sa akon mga kasimanwa mas sobra pa sa silot sang Sodom, nga gulpi lang nga ginlaglag sang Dios nga wala gid sing may nagbulig sa ila.
Sadto anay, ang mga pangulo sang Jerusalem maayo gid ang lawas maayo gid ang lawas . Masilaw ang ila kaputi pareho sang snow ukon gatas. Mapula-pula ang ila supat pareho sang rubi; ang ila hitsura pareho sang malahalon nga mga bato.
Pero karon mas maitom pa sila sang sa uling, kag indi na sila makilala sa mga dalan. Daw sa mga tul-an na lang sila nga naputos sang panit, kag daw sa laya nga kahoy.
Mas maayo pa ang mga nagkalamatay sa inaway sang sa nagkalamatay sa gutom. Amat-amat sila nga nagkalamatay sa gutom tungod nga wala gid sing pagkaon.
O Ginoo Ginoo , dumduma kon ano ang natabo sa amon. Tan-awa ang amon kahuy-anan.
Ginahilanat kami sa puwerte nga kagutom, kag ang amon lawas daw hurnohan kainit.
Ginpanglugos ang amon amon mga asawa kag mga anak nga babayi sa Zion kag sa mga banwa sang Juda.
Ginbitay sa kamot ang amon amon mga pangulo, kag wala pagtahura ang amon amon mga tigulang.
Ang amon amon mga pamatan-on nga mga lalaki ginpilit nga maggaling nga daw mga ulipon nga daw mga ulipon , kag ang mga kabataan nagakaladusmo sa pagpas-an sang mabug-at nga mga kahoy.
Ang mga tigulang wala na nagapungko sa puwertahan sang siyudad sa paghatag sang laygay sa paghatag sang laygay , kag ang pamatan-on nga mga lalaki wala na nagatukar sang sunata.
Wala na kami sang kalipay. Imbes nga magsinaot kami, nagapangasubo kami.
Wala na ang amon kadungganan. Kaluluoy kami, tungod kay nakasala kami.
Tungod sini nagasakit ang amon balatyagon kag nagapalangdulom ang amon panulok.
Kay mamingaw na ang Bukid sang Zion, kag ginalagawan na lang ini sang talunon nga mga ido.
O Ginoo Ginoo , nagahari ka sa wala sing katapusan. Ang imo paghari nagapadayon hasta san-o.
Ang amon mga duta kag mga balay ginkuha sang mga taga-iban nga lugar.
Ngaa permi mo kami ginakalimtan? Ngaa ginsikway mo kami sing malawig?
O Ginoo Ginoo , pabalika kami sa imo kag magabalik kami. Ibalik sa amon ang amon maayo nga kahimtangan sang una.
Sobra na bala ang imo kaakig sa amon nga ginsikway mo na gid kami?
Nangin ilo kami, kag ang amon mga iloy nangin balo.
Kinahanglan pa namon nga baklon ang tubig nga amon ginainom kag ang kahoy nga amon ginagatong.
Ginapaobra kami nga daw sa mga sapat nga ginagutahan. Kag wala gid kami ginapapahuwaya.
Nagpasakop kami sa mga taga-Egypt kag taga-Assyria para lang may pagkaon kami.
Nagpakasala ang amon mga katigulangan nga patay na subong, kag kami ang nagaantos tungod sang ila sala.
Ginadumalahan kami sang mga ulipon kag wala sing may makahilway sa amon sa ila mga kamot.
Sa amon pagpangita sang pagkaon nabutang sa peligro ang amon kabuhi sa mga armado nga mga tawo sa kamingawan.
Amo ini ang hitsura sang ila mga guya: sa atubangan, hitsura sang tawo; sa tuo, hitsura sang leon; sa wala, hitsura sang turo nga baka; kag sa likod, hitsura sang agila.
Ang duha nila ka pakpak nagahumlad kag nagatanduganay, kag ang duha pa gid nila ka pakpak nagatabon sa ila mga lawas.
Nagalupad sila sing dungan sa bisan diin nga direksyon, nga wala nagaliso-liso. Kon diin sila dal-on sang espiritu
Ang ila hitsura pareho sang nagadabadaba nga mga baga, kag may nagalabay-labay sa ila tunga nga daw sa nagasiga nga sulo. Ini nga sulo tama kasanag, kag halin sa sini nga sulo may nagakirab nga kilat.
Ining buhi nga mga tinuga nagapakadto-pakari nga daw sa kilat.
Samtang nagatan-aw ako sa apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga, may nakita ako sa idalom
Amo ini ang hitsura sang mga rueda: nagaidlak ini pareho sang malahalon nga bato nga malahalon nga bato nga krisolito, kag palareho ang ila hitsura. Ang kada rueda may ara pa gid sang isa ka rueda sa sulod nga nagakrus,
gani gani makakadto ini kag ang buhi nga mga tinuga sa bisan diin nga direksyon nga indi na kinahanglan nga magliso pa.
Ang palibot sang kada rueda malapad kag makahaladlok, kay puno ini sang mga mata.
Kon maglakat gani ang buhi nga mga tinuga nagaupod man sa ila ang mga rueda, kag kon magpaibabaw gani sila, nagapaibabaw man ang mga rueda.
Ang espiritu sang buhi nga mga tinuga ara sa mga rueda. Gani kon diin magkadto ang espiritu, didto man nagakadto ang buhi nga mga tinuga kag ang mga rueda.
Kon maglakat gani ang buhi nga mga tinuga, nagaupod man sa ila ang mga rueda, kag kon magpundo gani sila, nagapundo man ang mga rueda. Kag kon magpaibabaw sila, nagapaibabaw man ang mga rueda, kay ang ila espiritu ara sa mga rueda.
May nagatabon sa ibabaw sang buhi nga mga tinuga nga daw sa mga kristal nga nagabadlak, kag makatilingala ini tan-awon.
Sa idalom sini nagahumlad ang duha ka pakpak sang kada buhi nga tinuga, kag nagatanduganay ang ila mga pakpak. Ang duha pa gid nila ka pakpak nagatabon sa ila mga lawas.
Kon maglakat gani ang buhi nga mga tinuga, ang gahod sang ila mga pakpak daw sa huganas sang tubig, ukon daw sa tingog sang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios , ukon daw sa ginahod sang madamo nga soldado. Kag kon magpundo sila, ginakipot nila ang ila mga pakpak.
Samtang nagakipot ang ila mga pakpak, may tingog nga halin sa ibabaw sadtong nagatabon sa ila.
Kag may ara didto nga daw sa trono nga hinimo halin sa bato nga sapiro, kag may nagapungko sa sini nga trono nga daw sa tawo.
Halin sa iya hawak paibabaw, pareho siya sang nagabadlak nga metal nga daw sa nagasiga nga kalayo. Kag halin sa iya hawak paidalom, pareho siya sang nagadabadaba nga kalayo, kag napalibutan siya sang kasanag nga puwerte kasilaw.
Pareho sadto ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Pagkakita ko sadto nagluhod ako kag may nabatian ako nga tingog nga nagapakighambal sa akon sa akon .
Samtang nagatulok ako, may nakita ako nga bagyo nga halin sa north. Nagapangilat halin sa madamol nga gal-om, gani nagsanag ang palibot. Ang kilat sa tunga sang gal-om nagasiga nga daw sa nagabadlak nga metal.
May nakita man ako sa tunga sang gal-om nga apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga nga daw sa mga tawo,
kag ang ila mga pakpak nagatanduganay. Nagalupad sila sing dungan sa bisan diin nga direksyon, nga wala nagaliso-liso.
Nagsiling ang tingog sa akon, “Anak sang tawo,
Ginhumlad niya ini sa akon atubangan, kag may sulat ini nga mga pulong sang pagpangasubo kag mga panalambiton sa atubang kag sa likod.
Sang naghambal siya sa akon gin-gamhan ako sang Espiritu kag ginpatindog. Nagpamati ako sa tingog nga tingog nga nagahambal sa akon.
Siling niya, “Anak sang tawo, ipadala ko ikaw sa katawhan sang Israel, sa nasyon nga nagarebelde sa akon. Ang ila mga katigulangan nagrebelde sa akon sang una, kag hasta subong nagarebelde pa sila sa akon.
Mga matig-a sila sing ulo kag mga batinggilan. Ginapadala ko ikaw sa ila sa pagsugid sa ila sang mensahi nga halin sa akon, ang Ginoong Dios Dios .
Magpamati man ini nga mga rebelde ukon indi, mahibaluan nila nga may propeta gali dira sa ila.
Kag ikaw nga anak sang tawo, indi ka magkahadlok sa ila. Indi ka magkahadlok bisan pa nga ang ila mga ginapanghambal masakit pareho sang tunok sang kahoy-kahoy ukon kinadtan sang iwi-iwi. Indi ka gid magkahadlok sa ila kag sa ila mga ginapanghambal. Mga rebelde gid man sila nga katawhan.
Ihambal mo gid ang akon mensahi sa ila, mamati man ini nga mga rebelde ukon indi.
“Pero ikaw nga anak sang tawo, pamatii ang akon ginasiling sa imo. Indi ka magrebelde sa akon pareho sa ila. Nganga kag kauna ang akon ginahatag sa imo.”
Dayon nakita ko ang isa ka kamot nga nagaduhol sa akon sang isa ka linukot nga kasulatan.
Nagsiling pa gid ang tingog sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, kauna ining linukot nga kasulatan, kag maglakat ka kag maghambal sa katawhan sang Israel.”
Gani nagnganga ako, kag ginpakaon niya sa akon ang linukot nga kasulatan.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, kauna ina hasta nga mabusog ka.” Kag sang ginkaon ko na, pareho ini katam-is sang honey.
Nagsiling siya dayon sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, lakat na sa katawhan sang Israel kag ihambal ang akon mensahi para sa ila.
Wala ko ikaw ginapadala sa katawhan nga lain ang ila lingguahe kag mabudlay intiendihon, kundi sa katawhan sang Israel.
Kon ipadala ko ikaw sa katawhan nga lain ang ila lingguahe kag mabudlay intiendihon, sigurado nga mamati sila sa imo.
Pero ang katawhan sang Israel indi magpamati sa imo, kay indi sila gusto magpamati sa akon. Tanan sila mga matig-a sing ulo kag batinggilan.
Pero himuon ko ikaw nga mas matig-a kag mas kabalan sang sa ila,
pareho sa matig-a gid nga bato.
Nagsiling pa gid siya sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, pamatii sing maayo kag hupti sa imo tagipusuon ang tanan nga ginasiling ko sa imo.
Karon, magkadto ka sa imo mga kasimanwa nga kaupod mo nga mga bihag, kag isugid sa ila ang mensahi nga halin sa akon, ang Ginoong Dios Dios . Himua ini bisan mamati man sila ukon indi.”
Dayon gin-alsa ako sang Espiritu, kag may nabatian ako sa akon likod nga tingog nga nagadaguhob nga nagasiling, “Dalayawon ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa langit!”
Kag nabatian ko man ang huni sang mga pakpak sang buhi nga mga tinuga nga nagasag-iranay, kag ang gahod sang mga rueda sa tupad sini nga daw sa nagadaguhob.
Gin-alsa ako sang Espiritu kag gindala palayo. Akig ako kag nagalain ang akon buot, pero ginkontrolar ako sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nakaabot ako sa Tel Aviv, sa higad sang Suba sang Kebar nga sa diin nagaestar ang mga bihag. Nagpabilin ako didto sa ila sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw. Indi ako mapahamtang sa sadtong mga butang nga akon nakita.
Pagkaligad sang pito ka adlaw, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, ginpili ko ikaw nga manugbantay sang katawhan sang Israel. Gani kon ano man nga paandam ang mabatian mo sa akon isiling mo sa ila.
Kon magsiling ako nga ang isa ka malain nga tawo mapatay gid pero wala mo siya ginpaandaman nga magbiya sa iya malain nga pagginawi para maluwas siya, mapatay ang amo nga tawo tungod sa iya sala, kag sukton ko ikaw sa iya kamatayon.
Pero kon ginpaandaman mo ang ato nga malain nga tawo kag wala siya magbiya sa iya malain nga pagginawi, mapatay siya tungod sa iya sala, pero wala ka sing salabton sa akon.
Kon ang matarong nga tawo magtalikod sa matarong nga kabuhi kag pabay-an ko lang siya sa paghimo sina, mapatay siya. Kon wala mo siya ginpaandaman, mapatay siya tungod sa iya sala, kag indi ko pagdumdumon ang maayo niya nga mga binuhatan. Pero sukton ko ikaw sa iya kamatayon.
Pero kon ginpaandaman mo siya nga indi na magpakasala, kag nag-untat siya sa pagpakasala, indi siya mapatay kag wala ka sing salabton sa akon.”
Gin-gamhan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling siya sa akon, “Magkadto ka gilayon sa patag, kay didto may ihambal ako sa imo.”
Gani nagkadto ako gilayon sa patag, kag nakita ko ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga pareho sang nakita ko sa higad sang Suba sang Kebar, kag nagluhod ako.
Dayon gin-gamhan ako sang Espiritu kag ginpatindog, kag ginsilingan, “Pauli ka kag magpanirado sa imo balay!
Didto, gapuson ikaw nga anak sang tawo sang lubid para indi ka makapakig-upod sa imo mga kasimanwa.
Paapaon ko ikaw para indi ka makapaandam sa sining rebelde nga katawhan.
Pero sa tion nga magpakighambal ako sa imo, makahambal ka na. Kag isugid mo sa ila ang mensahi nga halin sa akon, ang Ginoong Dios Dios . Ang iban sa ila mamati, pero ang iban indi, kay mga rebelde sila nga katawhan.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Karon, ikaw nga anak sang tawo, magkuha ka sang tisa
Dayon himua ini nga daw sa ginapalibutan sang mga kaaway. Butangi ini sang mga pangsalakay: mga tore-tore, talaklasan sa pader, tinumpok nga duta para mataklas ang pader, kag sang mga kahoy nga pangwasak sa pader. Kag palibuti ini sang mga kampo.
Dayon magkuha ka sang malapad nga salsalon kag ibutang ini sa tunga mo kag sang siyudad bilang pader. Mag-atubang ka sa siyudad nga daw ginasalakay mo ini. Mangin tanda ini sa katawhan sang Israel.
“Pagkatapos maghigda ka nga nagatakilid sa wala bilang simbolo nga ginapas-an mo ang sala sang katawhan sang Israel. Pas-anon mo ang ila sala suno sa kadamuon sang mga adlaw sang imo paghigda.
Ang isa ka adlaw nagarepresentar sang isa ka tuig. Gani sa sulod sang 390 ka adlaw pas-anon mo ang ila sala.
Pagkatapos magliso ka sa tuo kag pas-ana naman ang sala sang katawhan sang Juda sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw; ang isa ka adlaw nagarepresentar man gihapon sang isa ka tuig.
Tuluka liwat ang larawan sang larawan sang Jerusalem nga ginapalibutan sang kaaway, kag maghambal ka kontra sa Jerusalem nga nagakalukos ka sang pako
Gapuson ko ikaw sang lubid para indi ka makaliso-liso hasta nga matapos ang pagpakita mo nga ginapalibutan ang siyudad sang kaaway.
“Karon, kuha ka sang trigo, barley, mga liso nga ulutanon, balatong, dawa kag espelta,
Mga 14 kilo lang lang nga pagkaon ang imo kaunon kada adlaw sa natalana nga mga oras.
Kag mga tunga sa litro lang lang nga tubig ang imo imnon kada adlaw kada adlaw sa natalana man nga mga oras.
Magluto ka sang tinapay kada adlaw kada adlaw samtang nagatulok ang mga tawo. Lutua ina pareho sa pagluto sang tinapay nga barley. Gamita nga panggatong ang mamala nga tai sang tawo. Kag dayon kauna ang tinapay.
Kay pareho man sini ang matabo sa katawhan sang Israel, magakaon sila sang mga pagkaon nga ginakabig nga mahigko sa mga lugar nga sa diin ipabihag ko sila.”
Pero nagsiling ako, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , wala ko gid paghigkui ang akon kaugalingon halin sang bata pa ako hasta subong. Wala gid ako makakaon sang sapat nga napatay lang ukon ginpatay sang iban nga sapat. Wala man ako makakaon sang sapat nga ginakabig nga mahigko.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sige, ipot na lang sang baka ang gamiton mo nga panggatong sa baylo sang tai sang tawo.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Anak sang tawo, paiwaton ko ang pagkaon sa Jerusalem. Takson sang mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem ang ila pagkaon kag tubig kag magakaon sila kag magainom nga nagapalibog kag nagapangasubo
tungod sa kaiwat sang pagkaon kag tubig. Magatinulukay sila nga nagakaurungan, kag amat-amat sila nga magakalamatay tungod sa ila sala.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, kuha ka sang matalom nga espada kag gamita nga pangkiskis sa imo buhok kag burangos. Dayon kiluha ang imo buhok kag burangos sa pagpartida sini sa tatlo ka parte.
Ibutang ang isa ka parte sa tisa nga gindrowingan mo sang Jerusalem, kag sunuga ini dira sa tunga sang siyudad pagkatapos sang pagpakita mo nga ginapalibutan ini sang kaaway. Ibutang ang isa pa ka parte sa palibot sang siyudad kag pang-utda-utda ini sang imo espada. Ang nabilin nga parte isabwag sa kahanginan, kay laptahon ko ang akon katawhan paagi sa espada.
Pero magbilin ka sang diutay lang nga buhok kag putsa ini sa imo bayo.
Dayon kuhai ini sang pila ka bilog kag ihaboy sa kalayo para masunog. Halin sa sini magalapta ang kalayo kag magasunog sa bilog nga Israel.
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga amo ato ang dangatan sang Jerusalem, ang siyudad nga ginhimo ko nga pinakaimportante nga lugar sa kalibutan.
Ginlapas niya ang akon mga sugo, kag mas malain pa siya sang sa iban nga mga nasyon sa iya palibot. Ginsikway niya ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem, Kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem, mas malain pa kamo sang sa iban nga mga nasyon sa inyo palibot. Wala ninyo pagtumana ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, kag wala man gani ninyo pagtumana
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagakontra sa inyo. Silutan ko kamo nga makita sang mga nasyon.
Tungod sa inyo makangilil-ad nga mga ginahimo, himuon ko sa inyo ang wala ko pa mahimo kag ang indi ko na paghimuon pa.
Kaunon sang mga ginikanan ang ila mga anak, kag kaunon sang mga anak ang ila mga ginikanan. Silutan ko gid kamo, kag ang mga mabilin sa inyo laptahon ko sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Ako, ang buhi nga Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasumpa nga laglagon ko kamo nga wala sing luoy-luoy tungod nga ginhigkuan ninyo ang akon templo paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios kag sa paghimo sang makangilil-ad nga mga butang.
Partihon ko kamo sa tatlo ka parte. Ang isa ka parte magakalamatay paagi sa gutom kag mga balatian dira sa siyudad. Ang isa pa ka parte magakalamatay paagi sa espada sa guwa sang siyudad. Kag ang mabilin nga parte laptahon ko sa bilog nga kalibutan kag padayon ko sila nga hingabuton.
“Kon matabo na ini maumpawan na ako sa akon puwerte nga kaakig sa inyo, kag makabalos na ako. Kon mapatilaw ko na kamo sang akon kaakig, mahibaluan ninyo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagpakighambal sa inyo tungod sa akon puwerte nga balatyagon sa inyo.
Gub-on ko ang inyo siyudad kag pakahuy-an kamo sang mga nasyon sa inyo palibot kag sang mga nagaalagi sa inyo lugar sa inyo lugar .
Pakahuy-an, yagutaon, kag kangidlisan kamo sang mga nasyon sa inyo palibot. Mangin paandam kamo sa ila sa tion nga silutan ko kamo sa akon puwerte nga kaakig. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
Padal-an ko kamo sang gutom nga pareho sang pana nga magalaglag sa inyo. Magagrabe nga magagrabe ang gutom hasta nga wala na kamo sang may makaon.
Wala labot sa gutom padal-an ko man kamo sang mapintas nga mga sapat kag pamatyon nila ang inyo mga anak. Magakalamatay man kamo sa mga balatian kag sa inaway. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, mag-atubang ka sa mga bukid sang Israel kag magsiling kontra sa ila:
O mga bukid sang Israel, mga ililigan sang tubig kag mga patag, pamatii ninyo ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : Padal-an ko kamo sang inaway, kag panggub-on ko ang inyo mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar.
Magakalaguba ang inyo mga halaran pati ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan sang mga insenso, kag pamatyon ko ang inyo mga pumuluyo sa atubangan sang inyo mga dios-dios.
Ihal-id ko ang mga bangkay ninyo nga mga Israelinhon sa atubangan sang inyo mga dios-dios kag laptahon ko ang inyo mga tul-an sa palibot sang inyo mga halaran.
Ang tagsa ninyo ka banwa pagalaglagon. Magakaladugmok ang inyo mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, mga dios-dios, mga halaran, pati ang mga halaran nga ginasunugan sang mga insenso, kag ang iban pa nga pareho sini nga inyo ginpanghimo.
Magakalamatay ang inyo mga pumuluyo, kag mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Pero indi ko kamo pag-ubuson pamatay. Kay ang iban sa inyo makaluwas sa inaway kag magalalapta sa iban nga mga nasyon
bilang mga bihag. Didto dumdumon nila ako, kag mareyalisar nila nga ginpasubo nila ako sang ila pagluib kag pagpasulabi sa mga dios-dios. Kangil-aran nila ang ila kaugalingon tungod sa ila malain kag makangilil-ad nga ginpanghimo.
Kag mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , kag seryuso ako sa akon paandam nga himuon ko ini nga katalagman sa ila.”
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios sa akon sa akon , “Isumbag ang imo inumol sa imo palad, magpudag-pudag ka, kag magsinggit, ‘Abaw!’
Atong ara sa malayo mapatay sa balatian. Ang ara sa malapit mapatay sa inaway. Kag ang mabilin mapatay sa gutom. Sa sini nga paagi mabatyagan nila ang akon kaakig sa ila.
Kag mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo kon ang mga bangkay sang ila mga kasimanwa maglalapta upod sa ila mga dios-dios sa palibot sang ila mga halaran, sa mga bukid, sa putokputokan sang mga bukid, sa puno sang dalagko nga mga kahoy, kag sa puno sang madabong nga mga kahoy nga terebinto, sa diin nagahalad sila sang mahamot nga insenso sa ila mga dios-dios.
Silutan ko sila bisan diin sila mag-estar, kag himuon ko nga mamingaw ang ila duta halin sa desierto pakadto sa Dibla. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
“Anak sang tawo, ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa nasyon sang Israel, ‘Amo na ini ang katapusan sang bilog nga duta sang Israel sang Israel .
Tapos na kamo, kay ipaagom ko na ang akon kaakig sa inyo. Hukman ko kamo suno sa inyo mga pagginawi. Balusan ko kamo sa tanan ninyo nga makangilil-ad nga binuhatan.
Indi ko gid kamo pagkaluoyan. Balusan ko gid kamo sa inyo mga pagginawi kag sa inyo makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan, para mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .’
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling pa gid: Magaabot ang sunod-sunod nga kalaglagan.
Amo na ini ang katapusan! Tapos na gid kamo,
kamo nga mga nagaestar sa duta sang Israel sang Israel . Amo na ini ang inyo kalaglagan. Malapit na gid ang tion nga magasalasala kamo. Tapos na ang malipayon ninyo nga adlaw sa kabukiran.
Sa indi madugay ipaagom ko na sa inyo ang puwerte ko nga kaakig. Hukman ko kamo suno sa inyo mga pagginawi. Balusan ko kamo sa tanan ninyo nga makangilil-ad nga binuhatan.
Indi ko gid kamo pagkaluoyan. Balusan ko kamo sa inyo pagginawi kag sa inyo makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang nagasilot sa inyo.
“Malapit na gid ang adlaw sang kalaglagan! Puwerte na gid ang kalautan kag ang pagpabugal sang mga tawo.
Ang ila pagpamintas magabalik sa ila bilang silot sa ila kalautan. Wala sing may mabilin sa ila, kag ang tanan nila nga manggad madula.
Huo, Huo, malapit na gid ang tion sang pagsilot sang pagsilot . Indi na magkalipay ang mga nagapamakal nga nakaayo sila nga nakaayo sila , kag indi naman magkasubo ang mga nagapamaligya nga napierdi sila nga napierdi sila , kay ang akon kaakig maagom sang tanan.
Kon may mga negosyante pa nga mabilin indi na sila makabalik sa ila negosyo, kay ang akon ginsiling parte sa matabo sa bilog nga katawhan sang Israel sang Israel indi na maliwat. Ang bisan sin-o nga nagahimo sang kalautan indi makaluwas sang iya kabuhi.
Bisan patunugon pa nila ang trumpeta sa pagpreparar sa tanan sa pagpakig-away, wala sing may mag-upod sa pagpakig-away, kay ang akon kaakig maagom sang tanan.
“Ang mga tawo sa guwa sa siyudad mapatay sa inaway. Ang magpabilin sa sulod sang siyudad mapatay sa balatian kag gutom.
Ang mga makaluwas sa kamatayon kag makapalagyo sa mga bukid magahibi pareho sang huni sang mga pating, tungod sa ila mga sala.
Magapalamuypoy ang ila mga kamot kag magapalangluya ang ila mga tuhod.
Magasuksok sila sang sako kag kiskisan nila ang ila mga ulo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo . Mahadlok gid sila kag mahuy-an.
Ipanghaboy nila ang ila mga pilak kag mga bulawan sa mga karsada pareho sa isa ka mahigko nga butang. Indi ini makaluwas sa ila sa adlaw nga ipakita ko ang akon kaakig. Indi ini makabusog sa ila kay amo ini ang kabangdanan nga nagpakasala sila.
Nagpabugal pa sila sang ila matahom nga mga alahas, kag gin-gamit nila ini sa paghimo sang makangilil-ad nila nga mga dios-dios. Gani himuon ko ang ila mga manggad nga mahigko nga mga butang para sa ila.
Ipaagaw ko ini sa malain nga mga tawo halin sa iban nga lugar, kag ila ini nga dagtaan.
Pabay-an ko lang sila samtang ginadagtaan kag ginaagawan nila sang mga pagkabutang ang akon ginapakamahal nga lugar.
“Pagabihagon ang akon katawhan kay permi lang may pinatyanay kag kinagamo sa ila siyudad.
Ipaagaw ko ang ila mga balay sa pinakamalaot nga mga nasyon. Pauntaton ko ang pagpabugal sang ila gamhanan nga mga tawo,
Magaabot sa ila ang kahadlok kag mangita sila sang kalinong, pero indi nila ini maangkon.
Magaabot sa ila ang sunod-sunod nga mga katalagman kag malain nga mga balita. Magapangayo sila sang mensahi sa mga propeta pero wala sila sing may mabaton pero wala sila sing may mabaton . Indi sila pagtudluan sang mga pari parte sa kasuguan, kag indi man sila paglaygayan sang mga manugdumala.
Magapangasubo ang hari kag madulaan siya sang paglaom, kag magakulurog ang mga tawo sa kahadlok. Hukman ko sila suno sa ila mga pagginawi kag suno man sa ila paghukom sa iban. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Sang ikalima nga adlaw sang ikaanom nga bulan, sadtong ikaanom nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag, sang amon pagkabihag, gin-gamhan ako sang Ginoong Dios Dios . Nagapungko ako sadto sa akon balay kag nagapakig-estorya sa akon ang mga manugdumala sang Juda.
May nakita ako nga daw sa tawo. Halin sa iya hawak paidalom pareho siya sang kalayo, kag halin sa iya hawak paibabaw pareho siya sang nagabadlak nga metal.
Gin-untay niya ang iya daw kamot kag ginkaptan niya ako sa buhok. Gin-alsa ako sang Espiritu sa kahanginan kag gindala sa Jerusalem paagi sa palanan-awon nga ginhatag sang Dios. Didto ako gindala Didto ako gindala sa puwertahan sa north, sa sulod nga ugsaran sang templo, nga sa diin nabutang ang isa ka dios-dios nga nakapaakig gid sa Dios.
Dayon nakita ko didto ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Dios sang Israel, pareho sang nakita ko sa patag.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, magtan-aw ka sa north.” Gani nagtan-aw ako, kag nakita ko sa tupad sang puwertahan malapit sa halaran ang dios-dios nga nakapaakig gid sa Dios.
Nagsiling ang Dios sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, nakita mo bala ang ginahimo sang katawhan sang Israel? Nakita mo bala ang makangilil-ad gid nga ginahimo nila diri, sa pagtabog sa akon palayo sa akon templo? Pero makita mo pa gid ang mas sobra pa ka makangilil-ad.”
Dayon gindala niya ako sa puwertahan sang ugsaran sang templo, kag pagtan-aw ko, may nakita ako nga buho sa pader.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, padakua ang buho sang pader.” Gani ginpadako ko ini, kag nakita ko ang isa ka puwertahan.
Nagsiling naman siya sa akon, “Sulod kag tan-awa ang makangilil-ad gid nga ila ginahimo.”
Gani nagsulod ako kag nakita ko nga ang pader palibot puno sang nagkalain-lain nga larawan sang sapat nga nagakamang kag sang iban pa nga mga sapat nga ginakabig nga mahigko. Nakita ko man didto ang tanan nga dios-dios sang katawhan sang Israel.
Nagatindog didto ang 70 ka manugdumala sang Israel, kag isa sa ila amo si Jaazania nga anak ni Shafan. Ang kada isa may ginauyatan nga suludlan sang insenso, kag ang aso sang insenso nagatub-ok.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, ti nakita mo na kon ano ang ginahimo sang mga manugdumala sang Israel sa sekreto? Kada isa sa ila ara sa kuwarto sang iya dios-dios. Nagasiling sila, ‘Wala nagatulok ang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton; ginsikway na niya ang Israel.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Dios, “Makita mo pa gid ang mas sobra pa ka makangilil-ad nga ginahimo nila.”
Dayon gindala niya ako sa puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa north, kag didto nakita ko ang mga babayi nga nagapungko kag nagahibi para sa dios nga si dios nga si Tamuz.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, nakita mo bala ina? Makita mo pa gid ang mas sobra pa dira ka makangilil-ad.”
Dayon gindala niya ako sa sulod nga ugsaran sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kag didto sa puwertahan sang templo, sa tunga-tunga sang balkon kag halaran, may mga 25 ka tawo. Nagatalikod sila sa templo kag nagaatubang sa east kag nagaluhod sa nagabutlak nga nagabutlak nga adlaw.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, nakita mo na bala ina? Ordinaryo lang bala para sa katawhan sang Juda ang paghimo sinang makangilil-ad nga mga butang diri? Wala labot sina ginahimo pa nila ang pagpamintas sa bilog nga nasyon, gani ginapaakig gid nila ako. Tan-awa kon daw ano ang ila pagyaguta sa akon!
Gani matilawan nila ang akon kaakig. Indi ko gid sila pagkaluoyan. Bisan magsinggit pa sila sing tudo sa akon, indi ko sila pagpamatian.”
Dayon nabatian ko ang Dios nga naghambal sa mabaskog nga tingog, “Dali kamo sa Jerusalem, kamo sa Jerusalem, kamo nga mga tawo nga magasilot sa sini nga siyudad kag dal-a ang inyo armas.”
Dayon may anom ka tawo nga nagsulod sa puwertahan sang templo sa north, nga ang kada isa may dala nga armas. May upod sila nga tawo nga nagabayo sang linen kag nagataklos sang gamit nga inugsulat. Nagtindog sila sa kilid sang halaran nga saway.
Halin sang una ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Dios sang Israel ara sa ibabaw sang mga kerubin sa sulod sang templo sa sulod sang templo , pero subong naghalin ini didto kag nagsaylo sa puwertahan sang templo. Dayon gintawag sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tawo nga nagabayo sang linen kag nagataklos sang gamit nga inugsulat,
kag ginsilingan, “Libuta ang Jerusalem kag markahi ang agtang sang mga nagapangasubo tungod sang tanan nga makangilil-ad nga ginahimo sa siyudad.”
Dayon nabatian ko ang Dios nga nagsiling sa anom ka tawo, “Sunda ninyo siya sa siyudad kag pamatya ang mga tawo nga wala sing marka sa agtang nga wala sing marka sa agtang . Indi gid sila pagkaluoyi.
Pamatya ninyo ang mga tigulang, mga bataon nga mga lalaki kag mga babayi, mga iloy, kag mga bata, pero indi pag-anha ang may mga marka. Mag-umpisa kamo sa akon templo.” Gani gin-una nila pamatay ang mga manugdumala nga ara sa atubangan sang templo.
Dayon nagsiling ang Dios sa ila, “Higkui ninyo ang templo paagi sa pagtumpok sang mga bangkay sa mga ugsaran, kag maglakat dayon kamo.” Gani naglakat sila kag nagpamatay sa bilog nga siyudad.
Samtang nagapamatay sila, nabilin ako nga nagaisahanon. Naghapa ako kag nagpanawag, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , ubuson mo bala pamatay ang mga nabilin sa Israel tungod sa imo kaakig sa Jerusalem?”
Nagsabat siya sa akon, “Puwerte na gid ang sala sang katawhan sang Israel kag Juda. Puwerte na ang pagpinatyanay kag wala na sing hustisya sa siyudad. Nagasiling pa sila, ‘Wala nagatulok ang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton; ginsikway na niya ang Israel.’
Gani indi ko gid sila pagkaluoyan kundi himuon ko man sa ila ang ila ginhimo sa iban.”
Dayon ang tawo nga nagabayo sang linen kag nagataklos sang gamit nga inugsulat nagbalik kag nagsiling sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo , “Natuman ko na ang imo ginsugo sa akon.”
Samtang nagatan-aw ako, may nakita ako nga daw isa ka trono nga hinimo halin sa bato nga bato nga sapiro. Ara ini sa ibabaw sang tabon nga kristal nga kristal sa ibabaw sang ulo sang mga kerubin.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa tawo nga nagabayo sang linen, “Magkadto ka sa tunga sang mga rueda sa idalom sang mga kerubin, kag maghakop ka didto sang mga baga kag isabwag ini sa siyudad.” Kag nakita ko nga nagkadto siya.
Ang mga kerubin nagatindog sa south sang templo sang magsulod ang tawo, kag may panganod nga naglikop sa sulod nga ugsaran sang templo.
Dayon naghalin ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ibabaw sang mga kerubin kag nagsaylo sa puwertahan sang templo. Ginlikupan sang panganod ang templo, kag ang ugsaran nagsanag tungod sa gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang huni sang mga pakpak sang mga kerubin pareho sa tingog sang Makagagahom nga Dios, kag mabatian ini hasta sa guwa nga ugsaran.
Sang ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tawo nga nagabayo sang linen nga magkuha sang baga sa tunga sang mga rueda sa idalom sang mga kerubin, nagkadto siya didto kag nagtindog sa kilid sang isa ka rueda.
Dayon ang isa sa mga kerubin nagkuha sang baga sa kalayo kag ginbutang ini sa kamot sang tawo nga nagabayo sang linen. Gindala ini sang tawo kag nagguwa.
Ang tagsa ka kerubin may ara sang daw kamot sang tawo sa idalom sang ila mga pakpak.
May nakita man ako nga apat ka rueda sa kada kilid sang apat ka apat ka kerubin. Nagaidlak ini pareho sang malahalon nga bato nga malahalon nga bato nga krisolito,
kag palareho ang ila hitsura. Ang kada rueda may ara pa gid sang isa ka rueda sa sulod nga nagakrus,
gani makakadto ini kag ang kerubin sa bisan diin nga direksyon nga indi na kinahanglan nga magliso pa.
Ang bilog nga lawas sang mga kerubin, ang ila likod, kamot, kag pakpak, puno sang mata, kag amo man ang mga rueda.
Kag nabatian ko nga ginatawag ang ini nga mga rueda nga “nagatiyog nga mga rueda.”
Ang kada kerubin may apat ka guya. Ang hitsura sang nahauna nga guya kerubin, ang ikaduha tawo, ang ikatatlo leon, kag ang ikaapat agila.
Dayon nagpaibabaw ang mga kerubin. Amo ini sila ang mga buhi nga tinuga nga akon nakita sa Suba sang Kebar.
Kon maglakat gani ang mga kerubin, nagaupod man sa ila ang mga rueda, kag kon maglupad sila, nagaupod man ang mga rueda.
Kon magpundo gani sila, nagapundo man ang mga rueda, kag kon magpaibabaw sila, nagapaibabaw man ang mga rueda, kay ang ila espiritu ara sa mga rueda.
Dayon ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo naghalin sa puwertahan sang templo kag nagsaylo sa ibabaw sang mga kerubin.
Kag samtang nagatan-aw ako, naglupad ang mga kerubin, kag nag-upod man sa ila ang mga rueda. Nagpundo sila sa puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa east, kag ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Dios sang Israel ara sa ibabaw nila.
Amo ato ang buhi nga mga tinuga nga nakita ko sa idalom sang Dios sang Israel didto sa Suba sang Kebar. Kag nahibaluan ko nga ang ini nga mga tinuga mga kerubin.
Ang kada isa sa ila may apat ka guya kag apat ka pakpak, kag sa idalom sang ila pakpak may daw kamot sang tawo.
Ang ila hitsura pareho man sang hitsura sang buhi nga mga tinuga nga nakita ko sa Suba sang Kebar. Ang kada isa nagalakat sing deretso.
Gin-alsa ako sang Espiritu kag gindala sa puwertahan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagaatubang sa east. Didto sa puwertahan may 25 ka tawo, kag ang duha sa ila amo si Jaazania nga anak ni Azur kag si Pelatia nga anak ni Benaya, nga mga pangulo sang katawhan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, sila amo ang mga nagaplano sing malain kag nagalaygay sang indi maayo sa mga tawo sa sini nga siyudad.
Nagasiling sila, ‘Maayo ini nga tion nga magpatindog sang mga balay.
Gani, anak sang tawo, maghambal ka kontra sa ila.”
Dayon gin-gamhan ako sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginsilingan niya ako nga ihambal ko ini: “Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo nga katawhan sang Israel: Nahibaluan ko kon ano ang inyo ginasiling kag ginahunahuna.
Madamo ang inyo ginpamatay sa sini nga siyudad kag naglalapta lang ang mga bangkay sa karsada.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sini sa inyo: Matuod nga ini nga siyudad pareho sang kaldero, pero ang mga bangkay nga ginlapta ninyo sa siyudad amo ang karne.
Nahadlok kamo sa inaway,
Palayason ko kamo sa sini nga siyudad kag ipabihag sa mga taga-iban nga lugar kag ipasilutan ko kamo sa ila.
Mapatay kamo sa inaway hasta sa border sang Israel. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ining siyudad indi mangin pareho sang kaldero para sa inyo, kag kamo indi mangin pareho sang karne sa sulod sini. Kay silutan ko kamo hasta sa border sang Israel.
Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Himuon ko ini kay wala kamo nagtuman sa akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan. Ang inyo gintuman amo ang mga pagsulundan sang mga nasyon sa palibot ninyo.”
Samtang nagasugid ako sang mensahi sang Dios, napatay si Pelatia nga anak ni Benaya. Naghapa dayon ako kag nagsinggit sing mabaskog, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , ubuson mo gid bala kalaglag ang nabilin nga mga Israelinhon?”
“Anak sang tawo, ang mga katawhan nga nabilin sa Jerusalem nagahambal parte sa ila mga kadugo nga ginbihag, kag amo ini ang ila ginasiling, ‘Malayo sila sa Ginoo Ginoo ; kag ang ini nga duta ginhatag na sang Ginoo Ginoo sa aton nga aton panag-iyahan.’
“Gani silinga ang kaupod mo nga mga bihag ang kaupod mo nga mga bihag nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling, ‘Ginpabihag ko kamo kag ginpalapta sa iban nga mga nasyon, pero bisan paano ara ang akon presensya sa inyo sa sina nga mga lugar.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga tipunon ko kamo halin sa mga nasyon nga sa diin naglalapta kamo, kag ihatag ko liwat sa inyo ang duta sang Israel.
Sa inyo pagbalik sa inyo lugar, kuhaon ninyo ang tanan nga makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios didto.
Bag-uhon ko ang inyo tagipusuon kag ang inyo panghunahuna. Indi na mangin matig-a ang inyo mga ulo kundi mangin matutom na kamo sa akon.
Tumanon na ninyo ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan. Mangin katawhan ko kamo, kag ako mangin inyo Dios.
Pero atong nagasimba sa ila makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios, silutan ko sila suno sa ila binuhatan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Dayon naglupad ang mga kerubin upod ang mga rueda sa kilid nila, kag ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Dios sang Israel ara sa ibabaw nila.
Dayon nagpaibabaw ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa siyudad, kag nagpundo sa bukid sa east sang siyudad.
Dayon nakita ko sa palanan-awon nga ginhatag sa akon sang Espiritu sang Dios nga gin-alsa niya ako kag gindala pabalik pabalik sa mga bihag sa Babilonia. Kag nadula ang palanan-awon nga akon nakita.
Dayon ginsugiran ko ang mga bihag sang tanan nga ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon.
“Anak sang tawo, nagaestar ka upod sa mga rebelde nga katawhan. May mga mata sila pero indi makakita, may mga dulunggan sila pero indi makabati, kay mga rebelde sila nga katawhan.
Gani, anak sang tawo, magpakita ka nga daw sa ginabihag ka. Maghimos ka sang imo dalal-on kag maglakat sa isa ka lugar. Himua ini sa adlaw para makita sang mga tawo. Basi pa lang nga sa sini nga paagi mareyalisar nila nga mga rebelde sila nga katawhan.
Samtang adlaw pa maghimos ka sang imo dalal-on para makita nila. Kag pagkagab-i, samtang nagatan-aw sila, maglakat ka nga daw isa ka bihag.
Busluti ang dingding sang imo balay samtang nagatan-aw sila, kag dira ka mag-agi kag ang imo dala.
Samtang nagatan-aw sila, pas-ana ang imo dala kag maglakat sa kagab-ihon. Tabuni ang imo guya para indi mo makita ang duta. Ang imo himuon isa ka paandam sa katawhan sang Israel.”
Gani gintuman ko ang iya ginsugo. Sang adlaw, naghimos ako sang akon dalal-on, kag pagkagab-i ginbuslutan ko ang dingding paagi sa akon kamot. Kag samtang nagatan-aw sila, ginpas-an ko ang akon dala kag naglakat sa kagab-ihon.
Pagkaaga nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, karon nga nagapamangkot ang mga rebelde nga katawhan sang Israel parte sa imo ginhimo,
silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , may mensahi para sa pangulo sang Jerusalem kag sa tanan nga katawhan sang Israel.
Silinga sila nga ang imo ginhimo isa ka paandam para sa ila nga mabihag sila.
Bisan ang ila pangulo magaagi sa dingding nga ginbuslutan para sa iya kag magapas-an siya sang iya dala kag magalakat sa kagab-ihon. Magapanabon siya para indi niya makita ang duta.
Siuron ko siya sang lambat nga daw sapat nga daw sapat kag dal-on sa Babilonia sa duta sang mga Kaldeanhon. Pero indi niya ini makita,
Laptahon ko sa bisan diin ang tanan niya nga tinawo—ang iya mga alagad kag mga guwardya—kag bisan diin sila magkadto ipapatay ko sila.
Kag kon laptahon ko na sila sa mga nasyon, mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Pero tugutan ko ang pila sa ila nga maluwas sa inaway, sa gutom, kag sa mga balatian para isugid nila sa mga nasyon nga ila pagakadtuan ang ila makangilil-ad nga mga ginhimo. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
“Anak sang tawo, magkurog ka sa kahadlok samtang nagakaon ka kag nagainom.
Kag silinga ang mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem kag sang bilog nga Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga magapalibog sila kag magakurog sa kahadlok samtang nagakaon sila kag nagainom, kay agawon ang mga pagkabutang sang ila nasyon tungod sang ila pagpamintas.
Laglagon ang ila mga banwa kag mangin mamingaw ini. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling liwat liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, ngaa may hulubaton sa Israel nga nagasiling, ‘Nagaligad ang mga tinion, pero wala man nagakatuman ang mga propesiya’?
Silinga sila nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , magapauntat sini nga hulubaton kag indi na gid nila ini pag-imitlang sa Israel. Silinga sila nga madali na lang gani matuman ang mga propesiya.
Sigurado nga madula na sa Israel ang indi matuod nga mga palanan-awon ukon binutig nga mga propesiya.
Kay kon ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , maghambal matuman gid ini. Sa labing madali matuman na ang akon ginsiling kontra sa mga rebelde nga katawhan. Matabo ini sa inyo panahon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, nagasiling ang katawhan sang Israel nga ang imo mga palanan-awon kag mga propesiya madugay pa nga matabo.
Gani isiling ini sa ila: ‘ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga sa labing madali matuman na ang akon ginsiling. Huo, Huo, matabo na ini.’ ”
“Anak sang tawo, maghambal ka kontra sa indi matuod nga indi matuod nga mga propeta sang Israel nga nagapanagna sang ila-ila lang. Silinga sila nga magpamati sining akon mensahi:
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kaluluoy ang buang-buang nga mga propeta nga nagahimo-himo lang sang ila mga propesiya, kag wala man sila sing nakita nga palanan-awon.
O Israel, ang imo mga propeta pareho sang talunon nga mga ido
Wala nila ginapaandaman ang mga tawo. Daw pareho lang nga Wala nila ginapaandaman ang mga tawo. Daw pareho lang nga wala nila pagkay-uha ang naguba nga mga pader sang Israel para mangin mabakod ini pag-abot sang inaway, sa adlaw nga magsilot ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi matuod ang ila palanan-awon kag binutig ang ila mga propesiya. Nagasiling sila nga halin sa Ginoo Ginoo ang ila ginapanghambal, pero ang matuod wala ko sila ginpadala. Kag nagapaabot pa sila nga matuman ang ila ginpanghambal.
Indi matuod ang ila palanan-awon kag binutig ang ila mga propesiya. Nagasiling sila nga amo ato ang akon ginsiling, pero wala ako naghambal sadto.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kontrahon ko sila, kay binutig ang ila mga propesiya kag indi matuod ang ila palanan-awon.
Silutan ko ini nga mga propeta nga ang ila palanan-awon indi matuod kag ang ila ginapropesiya binutig. Indi sila pagkabigon nga sakop sang akon katawhan kag ang ila mga ngalan indi pag-isulat sa listahan sang katawhan sang Israel, kag indi man sila makasulod sa duta sang Israel. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoong Dios Dios .
“Ini nga mga propeta nagapatalang sa akon katawhan paagi sa pagsiling nga maayo ang tanan, pero indi gali maayo. Daw pareho lang nga nagapatindog ang mga tawo sang pigaw nga pader, kag ginapulupintahan lang ini sang mga propeta sang apog.
Silinga inang mga nagapulupinta nga ang ila pader marumpag, kay magapadala ako sing mabaskog nga ulan. Ang ulan nga yelo nga daw mga bato magatupa sa sina nga pader, kag waswasan ini sang mabaskog nga hangin.
Kag kon marumpag na gani ini mamangkot ang mga tawo sa ila, ‘Ano bala ang nabulig sang inyo ginpulupinta nga apog?’
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Sa akon puwerte nga kaakig, rumpagon ko ang mga pader ko ang mga pader paagi sa mabaskog nga hangin, ulan nga yelo nga daw mga bato, kag mabaskog nga ulan.
Huo, Huo, rumpagon ko ang pader nga inyo ginpulupintahan lang sang apog. Rumpagon ko gid ini hasta nga magguluwa ang pundasyon sini. Kag kon marumpag na gani, mapilpilan kamo kag magakalamatay. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ipaagom ko ang akon kaakig sa pader kag sa mga nagpulupinta sini. Dayon ipahibalo ko nga wala na ang pader pati ang mga nagpulupinta sini
nga amo ang mga propeta sang Israel nga nagapanagna kag may mga palanan-awon nga mangin maayo kuno ang kahimtangan sang Jerusalem, bisan indi gali. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“Karon, ikaw nga anak sang tawo, maghambal ka man kontra sa mga babayi nga nagapanagna nga ila-ila lang.
Silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kaluluoy kamo nga mga babayi nga nagapangbiktima sa akon katawhan, bata man ukon tigulang, paagi sa mga anting-anting. Ginabutangan ninyo sila sang bendahi sa ila mga butkon kag belo sa ila mga ulo bilang mga anting-anting. Gusto ninyo nga biktimahon ang kabuhi sang akon katawhan para sa inyo kaugalingon nga kaayuhan.
Wala ninyo ako ginarespeto sa atubangan sang akon katawhan tungod lang sa pila ka hakop nga barley kag pila ka bilog nga tinapay. Paagi sa inyo pagbinutig, ginadeklarar ninyo nga mapatay ang indi dapat mapatay, kag ginadeklarar man ninyo nga indi mapatay ang dapat mapatay. Kag nagapati ang akon katawhan sa inyo binutig.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga akig gid ako sa inyo mga anting-anting nga inyo ginagamit sa pagbiktima sa mga tawo, nga daw sa mga pispis nga ginsiod. Lalason ko ini nga mga anting-anting sa inyo mga butkon, kag buy-an ko ang mga tawo nga daw sa mga pispis nga ginsiod ninyo.
Lalason ko man ang inyo mga belo, kag luwason ko ang akon katawhan halin sa inyo mga kamot, kag indi na ninyo sila mabiktima liwat. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Ginapasubo ninyo ang mga matarong paagi sa inyo binutig, nga bisan ako gani mismo wala nagpasubo sa ila. Ginakombinsi ninyo ang mga malain nga indi sila magbiya sa ila malain nga pagginawi paagi sa pagpromisa sa ila nga maluwas sila sa kamatayon.
Gani madula na ang inyo indi matuod nga palanan-awon kag ang inyo pagpangbabaylan. Luwason ko ang akon katawhan halin sa inyo mga kamot. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Isa ka tion, nagkadto sa akon ang mga manugdumala sang Israel kag nagpungko sa akon atubangan sa pagpangayo sang mensahi halin sa Ginoo sa pagpangayo sang mensahi halin sa Ginoo Ginoo .
“Anak sang tawo, ina sila nagapakamahal sang ila mga dios-dios nga amo ang nagadala sa ila sa pagpakasala, gani ngaa tugutan ko sila nga magpangayo sang mensahi halin sa akon?
Karon, silinga sila nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Ang bisan sin-o nga Israelinhon nga magpakamahal sang iya mga dios-dios nga magadala sa iya sa pagpakasala kag magpangayo sang mensahi sa propeta, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo mismo ang magsabat sa iya paagi sa silot paagi sa silot suno sa kadamuon sang iya mga dios-dios.
Himuon ko ini para magbalik sa akon ang tanan nga Israelinhon nga nagpalayo sa akon tungod sa ila mga dios-dios.
“Gani karon, silinga ang katawhan sang Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Maghinulsol kamo kag isikway ang inyo mga dios-dios, kag bayai ang tanan ninyo nga makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan.
Ang bisan sin-o nga Israelinhon ukon pangayaw nga nagaestar sa Israel, nga magbiya sa akon kag magpakamahal sang iya mga dios-dios nga magadala sa iya sa pagpakasala, kag magpangayo siya sang mensahi sa akon paagi sa propeta, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo mismo ang magsabat sa iya paagi sa silot paagi sa silot .
Kontrahon ko siya kag himuon nga isa ka paandam sa mga tawo, kag pagaestoryahan nila siya. Iseparar ko siya sa akon katawhan. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Pero kon ang isa ka propeta naganyat nga maghatag sa sina nga tawo sa sina nga tawo sang mensahi halin sa akon, ini tungod kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang nagganyat sa iya. Silutan ko siya kag dulaon sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.
Pareho nga silutan ang ina nga propeta kag ang tawo nga nagapangayo sa iya sang mensahi.
Himuon ko ini para indi na magbiya sa akon ang mga Israelinhon, kag indi na nila paghigkuan ang ila kaugalingon paagi sa pagpakasala. Mangin akon sila nga katawhan, kag ako mangin ila Dios. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, kon makasala gani sa akon ang mga pumuluyo sang mga pumuluyo sang isa ka nasyon paagi sa pagluib sa akon, silutan ko sila, kag kuhaon ko ang ginahalinan sang ila pagkaon. Padal-an ko sila sang gutom para magkalamatay sila kag ang ila mga kasapatan.
Bisan ara pa dira si Noe, si Daniel, kag si Job, sila lang ang maluwas tungod sang ila pagkamatarong. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“Ukon halimbawa, padal-an ko sang mapintas nga mga sapat ang ina nga nasyon sa pagpamatay sang iya mga pumuluyo, kag mangin mamingaw ina nga lugar kag wala na sing may mag-agi dira tungod sa kahadlok sa mapintas nga mga sapat.
Bisan ara pa dira atong tatlo ka tawo, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga indi nila maluwas bisan ang ila mga anak, kundi ang ila lang kaugalingon. Kag ang amo nga nasyon mangin mamingaw.
“Ukon halimbawa, padal-an ko sang inaway ang ina nga nasyon sa pagpamatay sang iya mga pumuluyo kag mga kasapatan.
Bisan ara pa dira atong tatlo ka tawo, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga indi gid nila maluwas bisan ang ila mga anak, kundi ang ila lang kaugalingon.
“Ukon halimbawa, sa akon kaakig padal-an ko sang balatian ang ina nga nasyon sa pagpamatay sang iya mga pumuluyo kag mga kasapatan.
Bisan ara pa dira si Noe, si Daniel kag si Job, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga indi gid nila maluwas bisan ang ila mga anak, kundi ang ila lang kaugalingon tungod sang ila pagkamatarong.
“Sa pagkamatuod, ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kaluluoy ang Jerusalem kon padal-an ko na ini sang apat ka mabug-at nga mga silot—inaway, gutom, mapintas nga mga sapat, kag mga balatian—nga magapatay sa iya mga pumuluyo kag mga kasapatan.
Pero may mabilin nga buhi sa ila, kag pagadal-on sila diri sa Babilonia para isimpon sa inyo bilang mga bihag. Makita ninyo kon daw ano kalaot kalaot ang ila pagginawi kag ang ila mga ginahimo, kag madula ang kalain sang inyo buot sa akon pagsilot sa Jerusalem.
Huo, Huo, madula ang kalain sang inyo buot kon makita ninyo ang ila pagginawi kag ang ila mga ginahimo, kag mareyalisar ninyo nga may rason gali kon ngaa ginhimo ko ato sa Jerusalem. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, mas maayo bala ang sanga sang ubas sang sa sanga sang iban nga mga kahoy?
Puwede bala mahimo ang iya sanga nga bisan ano? Mahimo bala ini nga salab-itan?
Siyempre indi! Siyempre indi! Puwede lang ini nga igatong; pero bisan pa gani madali lang ini maupos.
Gani wala ini sing pulos sa wala pa masunog kag labi na kon nasunog na!
“Karon, ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga ang mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem pareho sang ubas nga nagatubo upod sa mga kahoy sa kagulangan. Tungod nga wala sila sing pulos, sunugon ko sila.
Huo, Huo, silutan ko gid sila, kag bisan makapalagyo sila sa isa ka kalayo, lamunon gihapon sila sang lain nga kalayo. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Himuon ko nga mamingaw nga lugar ang ila nasyon tungod kay nagluib sila sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, pahibalua ang Jerusalem sa iya makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan.
Silinga siya nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa iya: ‘Isa ikaw ka Canaanhon! Ang imo amay isa ka Amornon, kag ang imo iloy isa ka Hithanon.
Kag sang imo pagkatawo wala sing may nag-atipan sa imo. Wala sing may nag-atipan sa imo. Wala sing may nag-utod sang imo pusod, wala sing may naghugas sa imo, ukon naghaplas sa imo sang asin, ukon nagputos sa imo sang lampin.
Wala gid sing may nagkabalaka sa paghimo sini nga mga butang sa imo; wala gid sing may naluoy sa imo. Sa baylo, ginhaboy ka sa latagon, kag ginpakamalaot ka halin sang adlaw sang imo pagkatawo.
“ ‘Pero sang maagyan ko ikaw nga nagaligid sa imo dugo, ginsilingan ko ikaw nga mabuhi ka gid.
Ginpadako ko ikaw pareho sa isa ka tanom sa latagon. Nagdako ka kag nangin dalaga.
“ ‘Sang maagyan ko ikaw liwat, nakita ko nga puwede ka na pangasaw-on. Gani gintabunan ko sang akon pangtabon nga panapton ang imo pagkahublas, kag nagpromisa ako sa imo nga palanggaon ko ikaw nga palanggaon ko ikaw . Naghimo ako sang kasugtanan sa imo, kag nangin akon ikaw. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“ ‘Dayon ginhugasan ko ang mga dugo sa imo lawas, kag ginhaplasan ko ikaw sang lana.
Dayon ginpabayuan ko ikaw sang malahalon nga bayo nga linen kag seda nga binordahan, kag ginpasuksukan sang panit nga sandalyas.
Ginpasuksukan ko ikaw sang mga alahas: mga pulseras kag kulintas.
Ginpasuksukan ko man ikaw sang singsing para sa ilong, mga aritos, kag korona.
Gani ginpatahom ko ikaw sang bulawan kag pilak. Ang imo bayo linen kag seda nga binordahan, kag ang imo pagkaon halin sa maayo nga klase nga harina, honey, kag lana sang olibo. Puwerte sa imo katahom, kag daw sa rayna ka.
Nangin bantog ka sa mga nasyon tungod sa imo puwerte nga katahom nga akon ginhatag sa imo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“ ‘Pero nagsalig ka sa imo katahom, kag gin-gamit mo ang imo pagkabantog sa imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon. Nagpagamit ka sa bisan sin-o lang nga lalaki nga nagaagi, kag nagpaayaw sila sa imo.
Gin-gamit mo ang iban mo nga mga bayo sa pagpatahom sa mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar, nga sa diin ginahimo mo ang imo imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon. Indi kuntani ina dapat matabo.
Gin-gamit mo man ang mga bulawan kag pilak nga mga alahas nga ginhatag ko sa imo sa pagpahimo sang mga dios-dios nga lalaki kag ginsimba mo ini. Pareho lang nga nagpanginlalaki ka!
Ginpabayuan mo ini nga mga dios-dios sang imo mga bayo nga binordahan, kag ginhalad mo sa ila ang akon lana kag insenso.
Ginhalad mo man sa ila ang pagkaon nga ginhatag ko sa imo halin sa maayo nga klase nga harina, honey, kag lana sang olibo. Ginhalad mo ini bilang halad nga mahamot. Huo, Huo, amo gid ina ang natabo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“ ‘Ginkuha mo man ang imo mga anak nga lalaki kag babayi nga imo ginbata sa akon kag ginhalad mo bilang pagkaon sa mga dios-dios. Indi ka pa bala kontento sa imo imoralidad?
Ginpamatay mo ang akon mga anak kag ginhalad sa mga dios-dios.
Sa tanan mo nga makangilil-ad nga ginahimo kag imoralidad wala mo gid gindumdom kon daw ano ang pagtatap ko sa imo kon daw ano ang pagtatap ko sa imo sang bataon ka pa, sadtong tion nga hublas ka pa kag nagaligid sa imo dugo.
“ ‘ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kaluluoy ka gid! Wala labot sining tanan nga kalautan nga imo ginhimo,
nagpatindog ka pa sang mga simbahan para sa imo mga dios-dios sa mga plasa
kag sa mga kanto sang mga dalan. Kag didto gindagtaan mo ang imo katahom, kag nagpagamit ka sa kay bisan sin-o lang nga lalaki nga nagaagi didto. Nagadugang nga nagadugang ang imo imoralidad.
Nagpakigrelasyon ka sa mga Egyptohanon, ang imo kasilingan nga makihilawason. Nakapaakig gid sa akon ang imo padayon nga imoralidad.
Gani ginsilutan ko ikaw kag ginpagamay ang imo teritoryo. Gintugyan ko ikaw sa imo mga kaaway nga mga Filistinhon, kag bisan sila natingala sang imo binastos nga pagginawi.
“ ‘Nagpakigrelasyon ka man sa mga taga-Assyria, kay wala ka pa gid maayawi. Kag pagkatapos sina, wala ka pa gihapon maayawi.
Nagdugang pa gid ang imo imoralidad kay nagpakigrelasyon ka man sa mga taga-Babilonia, ang lugar sang mga negosyante, pero wala ka pa gid maayawi.
“ ‘ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kadali sa imo madala. Amo gani nga nahimo mo ato nga mga butang pareho sang isa ka lampingasan nga babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.
Nagpatindog ka sang mga simbahan para sa imo mga dios-dios, sa mga kanto sang mga dalan kag sa mga plasa. Sobra ka pa kalain sang sa mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas tungod kay wala ka nagapabayad sa paghulid sa imo.
Isa ikaw ka babayi nga nagapanginlalaki! Mas gusto mo pa nga maghulid sa iban nga lalaki sang sa imo bana.
Nagapabayad ang mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas, pero ikaw ya amo pa ang nagahatag sang regalo sa imo mga kerido para maganyat mo sila nga magpalapit sa imo sa pagpakighilawas.
Lain ka sang sa mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas. Wala sing may nagahagad sa imo sa pagpakighilawas; ikaw mismo ang nagapanghagad ikaw mismo ang nagapanghagad . Wala ka nagapabayad; ikaw pa gani ang nagabayad. Gani lain ka gid ya.
“ ‘Gani, ikaw nga imoral, pamatii ang akon mensahi.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Ginpakita mo ang imo pagkahublas kag ginhatag mo ang imo lawas sa imo mga kerido tungod sa imo imoralidad. Ginsimba mo ang imo makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios, kag ginpamatay mo ang imo mga anak bilang halad sa ila.
Tungod sining imo mga ginhimo, tipunon ko ang tanan mo nga mga kerido nga imo ginkawilihan—ang imo ginhigugma pati man ang imo ginkainitan. Tipunon ko sila halin sa bisan diin sa pagkontra sa imo, kag ubahan ko ikaw sa ila atubangan kag makita nila ang imo pagkahublas.
Silutan ko ikaw sa imo pagpanginlalaki kag pagpamatay. Kag sa akon puwerte nga kaakig, patyon ko ikaw.
Itugyan ko ikaw sa mga kamot sang imo mga kerido, kag panggub-on nila ang imo mga simbahan nga para sa imo mga dios-dios. Ubahan ka nila kag panguhaon ang matahom mo nga mga alahas, kag bayaan ka nila nga hublas.
Ipasalakay ka nila sa grupo sang mga tawo nga magabato sa imo kag magatadtad sa imo sang espada.
Sunugon nila ang imo mga balay kag silutan ka nila sa atubangan sang madamo nga babayi. Untaton ko ang imo imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon kag ang imo pagbayad sa imo mga kerido.
Dayon maumpawan na ako sa akon puwerte nga kaakig sa imo, kag indi na ako mangakig sa imo.
“ ‘Ginkalimtan mo kon daw ano ang pagtatap ko sa imo sang bataon ka pa. Sa baylo, ginpaakig mo ako sa imo mga ginhimo. Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga silutan ko gid ikaw suno sa imo mga ginhimo. Indi bala naghimo ka sang binastos nga buhat dugang sa tanan mo nga makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan?
“ ‘May mga tawo nga nagasiling sini nga hulubaton sa imo: “Kon ano ang iloy amo man ang anak.”
Pareho ka gid sa imo iloy nga nag-insulto sa iya bana kag mga anak. Kag pareho ka man sa imo mga utod nga babayi nga nag-insulto sa ila mga bana kag mga anak. Ang imo iloy isa ka Hithanon kag ang imo amay isa ka Amornon.
Ang magulang mo nga babayi amo ang Samaria nga ara nagaestar sa north upod sa iya mga anak nga babayi.
Ginsunod mo ang ila pagginawi kag ang ila makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan. Kag sa malip-ot lang nga tion sobra pa ang imo ginhimo sang sa ila.
Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasugid sing matuod nga ang Sodom nga imo utod kag ang iya mga anak nga babayi wala makahimo sang pareho sang ginhimo mo kag sang imo mga anak nga babayi.
Ang sala sang Sodom nga imo utod amo ang pagkamatinaas-taason. Siya kag ang iya mga anak nga babayi bugana sang pagkaon kag matawhay ang pangabuhi, pero wala gid sila nagbulig sa mga kubos kag imol.
Sa ila pagkamatinaas-taason naghimo sila sang makangilil-ad nga mga butang sa akon panulok, gani ginlaglag ko sila sang makita ko ang ila ginhimo.
“ ‘Bisan ang Samaria wala makahimo sang katunga sang imo mga sala. Mas madamo nga makangilil-ad nga mga butang ang imo ginhimo sang sa imo mga utod nga babayi, gani daw mas matarong pa sila sang sa imo tungod sa tanan nga kalautan nga imo ginhimo.
Dapat mahuya ka tungod nga ang imo sala puwerte kalain sang sa sala sang imo nga utod nga babayi. Kon ikomparar, daw mas matarong pa sila sang sa imo.
Pero magaabot ang tion nga ibalik ko ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang Sodom kag sang Samaria, pati sang ila mga anak nga babayi. Ibalik ko man ang imo maayo nga kahimtangan, pero pero kaupod nila,
para mahuya ka sa tanan mo nga ginhimo, kay tungod sining mga malain nga ginhimo mo nagguwa nga daw mas maayo sila sang sa imo.
Huo, Huo, ibalik ko ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang imo mga utod nga babayi—ang Sodom kag Samaria, pati ang ila mga anak nga babayi. Kag amo man ini ang matabo sa imo kag sa imo mga anak nga babayi.
Ginhikayan mo sadto ang Sodom sang bugalon ka pa
kag sang wala pa mabuyagyag ang imo pagkamalaot. Pero karon pareho ka na sa iya; ginahikayan ka man sang mga pumuluyo sang Edom
Pagaantuson mo ang silot tungod sa imo binastos kag makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Amo pa gid ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : “Silutan ko ikaw sing bagay sa imo, kay ginbaliwala mo ang akon akon ginpanumpa paagi sa paglapas sang aton aton kasugtanan.
Pero tumanon ko ang kasugtanan nga akon ginhimo sa imo sang bataon ka pa, kag magahimo ako sa imo sang kasugtanan nga magapadayon hasta san-o.
Dayon madumduman mo kon daw ano ang imo pagginawi sang una kag mahuya ka, labi na kon himuon ko ang imo mga utod nga babayi, ang Samaria kag Sodom, nga mangin imo mga anak, bisan tuod indi sila sakop sang akon kasugtanan sa imo.
Palig-unon ko ang akon kasugtanan sa imo, kag mahibaluan mo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dumdumon mo ang imo mga sala kag mahuya ka, kag daw indi ka na maghambal sa puwerte nga kahuya kon patawaron ko na ang tanan mo nga ginhimo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, isugid ini nga paanggid sa katawhan sang Israel,
kag silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagpasugid sini: May isa ka dako nga agila nga naglupad pa-Lebanon. Malapad ang iya mga pakpak kag madamol ang iya mga bulbol nga lain-lain sing kolor. Naghapon ini sa ibabaw sang kahoy nga sedro,
kag gin-utod niya ang ugbos sang pinakaibabaw nga sanga. Dayon gindala niya ini sa lugar sang mga negosyante kag gintanom didto.
“Pagkatapos nagkuha ang agila sang liso sa duta sang Israel sang Israel kag gintanom ini sa matambok nga duta sa higad sang suba nga sa diin magatubo ini sing madasig.
Nagtubo ini nga isa ka manubo nga tanom nga nagagapa. Ang mga sanga sini nagakalap pakadto sa agila, kag nagapanggamot ini sang madalom. Nagpananga pa gid ini kag nagpanalingsing.
“Pero may isa ka dako nga agila nga nag-abot. Malapad man ang iya sini nga mga pakpak kag madamol sing bulbol. Ang mga gamot kag mga sanga sang sadto nga tanom naggapa pakadto sa sini nga agila para mapatubigan siya sang agila labaw pa sa tubig sang duta nga gintamnan sa iya.
Ginhimo ini sang tanom bisan nga natanom na siya sa maayo nga duta, nga sa diin may bugana nga tubig nga makapatubo, makapabunga, kag makapatahom sa iya.
“Karon, ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nagapamangkot: Padayon bala ini nga magtubo? Indi! Gabuton ini kag panguhaon ang iya mga bunga, kag pabay-an nga malaya. Indi na kinahanglan ang makusog nga tawo ukon ang madamo nga tawo sa paggabot sini.
Bisan itanom pa ini liwat sa lain nga lugar indi na ini magtubo. Malaya ini sing bug-os kon huyupon sang mainit nga hangin halin sa east. Huo, Huo, malaya ini sa iya ginatubuan.”
“Pamangkuta ining rebelde nga katawhan sang Israel sang Israel kon nahibaluan nila kon ano ang kahulugan sang sadto nga paanggid. Silinga sila nga amo ini ang kahulugan amo ini ang kahulugan : Nagkadto ang hari sang Babilonia sa Jerusalem kag ginbihag niya ang hari sini kag ang mga opisyal, kag gindala niya sila pa-Babilonia.
Nagpili siya sang isa ka kaliwat sang hari sang Juda sang Juda kag naghimo siya sang kasugtanan sa iya kag ginpasumpa niya siya nga mag-alagad sa iya. Ginbihag man niya ang mga dungganon nga mga tawo sang Juda sang Juda
para ini nga ginharian indi na makabangon liwat kag indi na makabato sa iya. Makapabilin lang ini nga ginharian kon padayunon niya ang iya kasugtanan sa Babilonia.
Pero nagrebelde ang hari sang Juda sang Juda sa hari sang Babilonia paagi sa pagpadala sang mga tinawo sa Egypt sa pagkuha sang mga kabayo kag madamo nga soldado. Magmadinalag-on bala siya? Makapalagyo bala siya kag makaluwas sa silot sa paglapas niya sa iya kasugtanan sa Babilonia?
Indi! Indi! Kay ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga ining hari sang Juda sang Juda sigurado gid nga mapatay sa Babilonia, kay ginlapas niya ang kasugtanan nga iya ginsumpaan sa hari sang Babilonia nga naghimo sa iya nga hari.
Indi makabulig sa iya sa inaway ang hari sang Egypt
Ginlapas sang hari sang Juda ang kasugtanan nga iya ginsumpaan nga tumanon sa hari sang Babilonia sa hari sang Babilonia , gani indi gid siya makaluwas.
“Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga silutan ko gid siya tungod kay ginlapas niya ang akon kasugtanan nga iya ginsumpaan sa akon ngalan.
Dakpon ko siya sang lambat kag dal-on sa Babilonia, kag didto silutan ko siya tungod kay indi siya matutom sa akon.
Magakalamatay ang iya mga soldado nga nagapalalagyo, kag ang mga mabilin sa ila magalalapta sa bisan diin nga lugar. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagsiling sini.”
Kag ang tanan nga kahoy sa duta makahibalo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagautod sa matag-as nga mga kahoy kag nagapataas sa manubo nga mga kahoy. Ako man ang nagapalaya sa malagtom nga mga kahoy kag nagabuhi sa mga laya nga kahoy. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagpromisa sini, kag tumanon ko gid ini.”
“Ngaa bala ginahambal ninyo ini nga hulubaton sa Israel: ‘Nagkaon ang ginikanan sang maaslom nga ubas, kag ang kaaslom sini matilawan pati sang ila mga kabataan?’
“Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga indi na ninyo pag-ihambal ini nga hulubaton sa Israel.
Pamatii ninyo ini! Ang tanan nga kabuhi akon—ang kabuhi sang ginikanan kag sang kabataan. Ang tawo lang nga nakasala amo ang mapatay.
Halimbawa, may isa ka tawo nga matarong kag husto ang iya mga ginahimo.
Wala siya nagasimba sa mga dios-dios sang Israel ukon nagakaon sang mga halad sa mga simbahan sang mga halad sa mga simbahan sa mga bukid. Wala siya nagahulid sa asawa sang iban ukon sa babayi nga ginaregla.
Wala siya nagapamigos, kag ginauli niya ang garantiya sang mga nakautang sa iya. Wala siya nagapangawat, kundi ginapakaon niya ang mga ginagutom kag ginahatagan sang bayo ang mga wala sing bayo.
Wala siya nagapasaka kon magpautang siya. Wala siya nagahimo sang malain, kag wala siya sang may ginapaboran sa iya nga paghukom.
Ginasunod niya sing maayo ang akon mga pagsulundan kag mga sugo. Matarong ina nga tawo kag padayon siya nga mabuhi. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“Pero halimbawa, ina nga tawo may anak nga lalaki nga mapintas kag nagapamatay ukon ginahimo niya ini nga mga butang
nga wala ginahimo sang iya amay: Nagakaon siya sang mga halad sa mga simbahan sang mga halad sa mga simbahan sa mga bukid, kag nagahulid siya sa asawa sang iban.
Ginadaogdaog niya ang mga kubos kag imol. Nagapangawat siya, kag wala niya ginauli ang garantiya sang mga nakautang sa iya. Nagasimba siya sa mga dios-dios, kag nagahimo sang makangilil-ad nga mga butang.
Nagapautang siya nga may saka. Ti, mabuhi ayhan siya? Indi! Mapatay gid ini nga tawo tungod sa tanan nga makangilil-ad nga mga butang nga iya ginhimo. Siya ang responsable sa iya kamatayon.
“Pero halimbawa, ina nga tawo may anak nga lalaki, kag nakita sang sini nga anak ang tanan nga sala nga ginhimo sang iya amay, pero wala niya pagsunda.
Wala siya nagasimba sa mga dios-dios sang Israel ukon nagakaon sang mga halad sa mga simbahan sang mga halad sa mga simbahan sa mga bukid. Wala siya nagahulid sa asawa sang iban.
Wala siya nagapamigos, kag wala siya nagakuha sang garantiya sang mga nakautang sa iya. Wala siya nagapangawat kundi ginapakaon niya ang mga ginagutom kag ginahatagan sang bayo ang mga wala sing bayo.
Wala siya nagahimo sang malain, kag wala siya nagapasaka kon magpautang siya. Ginatuman niya ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan. Ini nga tawo indi mapatay tungod sa sala sang iya amay kundi padayon siya nga mabuhi.
Pero ang iya amay mapatay tungod sa iya sala, kay nagpanguwarta siya, nagpangawat kag naghimo sing malain sa iya kasimanwa.
“Pero basi mamangkot kamo, ‘Ngaa bala indi dapat silutan ang anak tungod sa sala sang iya amay?’ Kon ang anak nagahimo sing matarong kag husto, kag ginasunod niya sing maayo ang akon mga pagsulundan, padayon siya nga mabuhi.
Ang tawo lang nga nakasala amo ang mapatay. Ang anak indi dapat silutan tungod sa sala sang iya amay, kag ang amay indi dapat silutan tungod sa sala sang iya anak. Ang matarong nga tawo pagabalusan sa iya matarong nga mga ginahimo, kag ang malain nga tawo pagasilutan sa iya malain nga mga ginahimo.
“Pero kon ang malain maghinulsol sa tanan nga sala nga iya nahimo kag magtuman sang akon pagsulundan kag maghimo sing matarong kag husto, sigurado nga mabuhi siya; indi siya mapatay.
Indi na siya pagsukton sa tanan nga sala nga iya nahimo, kag tungod sa iya matarong nga ginahimo, padayon padayon siya nga nga mabuhi.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , wala nalipay kon mapatay ang isa ka malain nga tawo. Malipay ako kon maghinulsol siya kag padayon nga padayon nga magkabuhi.
“Pero kon ang isa ka matarong nga tawo magbiya sa iya matarong nga kabuhi kag magpakasala, kag maghimo sang makangilil-ad nga mga butang nga ginahimo sang mga malain, padayon bala siya nga mabuhi? Siyempre indi! Siyempre indi! Kalimtan na ang iya matarong nga mga ginhimo. Kag tungod sa iya pagluib sa akon kag sa mga sala nga iya nahimo, mapatay siya.
“Pero basi magsiling kamo, ‘Indi matarong ang pamaagi sang Ginoo.’ Pamati kamo, katawhan sang Israel: Ang akon bala pamaagi ang indi matarong ukon ang inyo?
Kon ang matarong nga tawo magbiya sa iya matarong nga kabuhi kag maghimo sang malain, mapatay siya tungod sa iya sala.
Kag kon ang malain nga tawo magbiya sa iya kalainan kag maghimo sing husto kag matarong, maluwas niya ang iya kabuhi.
Indi siya mapatay kundi padayon siya nga mabuhi tungod kay nareyalisar niya ang tanan niya nga sala kag ginbayaan niya ini.
Pero basi magsiling kamo mga katawhan sang Israel, ‘Indi matarong ang pamaagi sang Ginoo.’ Katawhan sang Israel, ang akon bala mga pamaagi ang indi matarong ukon ang inyo?
“Gani nagasiling ako sa inyo, katawhan sang Israel, nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , magahukom sa kada isa sa inyo suno sa iya binuhatan. Karon, maghinulsol na kamo kag bayai na ang tanan ninyo nga mga sala para indi kamo malaglag.
Katawhan sang Israel, ngaa gusto ninyo nga mapatay? Untati na ninyo ang pagpakasala kag bag-uha na ninyo ang inyo kabuhi.
Wala ako nalipay kon may mapatay. Gani maghinulsol na kamo para padayon kamo nga mabuhi. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Kantaha ining panalambiton parte sa mga pangulo sang Israel:
“Ang imo iloy pareho sa isa ka leon nga nagasagod sang iya mga bata kaupod sang iban nga mga leon.
Gin-atipan niya ang isa niya ka bata kag nangin makusog nga leon. Nakatuon ini magpanukob, kag nagapangaon sang tawo.
Sang mahibaluan ini sang iban nga mga nasyon ginsiod nila siya kag gindala sa Egypt nga nakaw-itan.
Ginpangguba niya ang mabakod nga mga lugar sang mga kaaway
“Nagtipon ang mga nasyon sa pagpakig-away sa iya, kag ginpalibutan nila siya. Ginladlad nila ang ila lambat kag ginsiod siya.
Ginkaw-itan nila siya kag gin-guyod pasulod sa hawla, kag gindala sa hari sang Babilonia. Ginpriso nila siya, gani indi na mabatian ang iya pagngurob sa kabukiran sang Israel.
“Ang imo iloy pareho man sa ubas nga gintanom sa higad sang tubig. Madamo ini sang sanga kag bunga tungod kay bugana ang tubig.
Mabakod ang iya sini nga mga sanga kag daw puwede himuon nga bulubaston sang hari. Nagtaas gid ang ubas, labaw pa sang sa madabong nga mga tanom. Kitaon ini tungod sa iya kataason kag sa kadabong sang iya mga sanga.
Pero may naggabot sini tungod sa kaakig, kag ginhaboy sa duta. Nahuyos ang iya mga bunga tungod sang mainit nga mainit nga hangin halin sa east. Nalaya ang iya mabakod nga mga sanga kag dayon gintutdan ini.
Karon gintanom ini liwat liwat sa desierto, sa lugar nga mamala kag wala sing tubig.
“Ini nga panalambiton dapat nga kantahon sa sini nga panahon.”
Sang ikanapulo nga adlaw sang ikalima nga bulan, sang ikapito nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag sang amon pagkabihag , may pila ka manugdumala sang Israel nga nagkadto sa akon kag nagpungko sa akon atubangan sa pagpangayo sang mensahi halin sa Ginoo Ginoo .
“Anak sang tawo, silinga ang mga manugdumala sang Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: ‘Nagkadto bala kamo sa pagpangayo sang mensahi sa akon? Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga indi ko kamo paghatagan sang mensahi.’
“Anak sang tawo, sige na, sentensyahi sila. Ipareyalisar sa ila ang makangilil-ad nga mga butang nga ginhimo sang ila mga katigulangan.
Silinga sila nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: ‘Sang tion nga ginpili ko ang Israel nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob kag ginpakilala ko ang akon kaugalingon sa ila didto sa Egypt, nagsumpa ako sa ila nga nagasiling, “Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
Sadto nga tion nagsumpa ako nga paguwaon ko sila sa Egypt kag dal-on sa duta nga ginpili ko para sa ila—isa ka maayo kag mapatubason nga duta,
Dayon nagsiling ako sa ila, “Isikway na ninyo ang inyo makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios. Indi ninyo paghigkui ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios sang Egypt, kay ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
“ ‘Pero nagrebelde sila sa akon, kag wala sila nagpamati. Wala nila ginsikway ang makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios sang Egypt. Gani nagsiling ako nga ipaagom ko sa ila ang akon puwerte nga kaakig didto sa Egypt.
Pero wala ko ini paghimua, tungod kay mahuy-an ang akon ngalan sa mga nasyon sa palibot sang Israel nga nakahibalo nga nagpahayag ako sa mga Israelinhon nga paguwaon ko sila sa Egypt.
Gani ginpaguwa ko sila sa Egypt kag gindala sa kamingawan.
Didto, Didto, ginhatag ko sa ila ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan agod nga ang bisan sin-o nga magtuman sini magakabuhi.
Ginpatuman ko man sa ila ang mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway bilang tanda sang amon kasugtanan. Ini magapahanumdom sa ila nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagpili sa ila bilang akon katawhan.
“ ‘Pero nagrebelde gihapon sila sa akon didto sa kamingawan. Wala nila pagtumana ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, nga ang bisan sin-o nga magtuman sini magakabuhi. Kag wala gid nila ginpakabalaan ang mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga ginpatuman ko sa ila. Gani nagsiling ako nga ipaagom ko sa ila ang akon kaakig para malaglag sila sing bug-os didto sa kamingawan.
Pero wala ko ini paghimua tungod kay mahuy-an ang akon ngalan sa mga nasyon nga nakahibalo nga ginpaguwa ko ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt.
Pero nagsumpa ako sa ila didto sa kamingawan nga indi ko sila pagdal-on sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa ila sa ila —ang duta nga maayo kag mapatubason, ang labing maayo nga duta sa tanan.
Ginsumpa ko ini sa ila tungod kay wala nila pagtumana ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, kag wala nila ginpakabalaan ang mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga akon ginpatuman sa ila. Ginpasulabi pa nila ang pagsimba sa ila mga dios-dios.
“ ‘Pero bisan pa sining ila ginhimo, ginkaluoyan ko gihapon sila, kag wala ko sila paglaglaga sing bug-os didto sa kamingawan.
Ginsilingan ko ang ila mga anak didto sa kamingawan, “Indi ninyo pagsunda ang mga pagsulundan kag pagginawi sang inyo mga ginikanan, kag indi ninyo paghigkui ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa pagsimba sa ila mga dios-dios.
Ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Sunda ninyo sing maayo ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan.
Pakabalaana ninyo ang mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kay tanda ini sang aton kasugtanan, kag nagapahanumdom ini sa inyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.”
“ ‘Pero ang ila ila mga kabataan nagrebelde man sa akon. Wala nila pagtumana ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, nga ang bisan sin-o nga magtuman sini magakabuhi. Kag wala nila pagpakabalaana ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga ginpatuman ko sa ila. Gani nagsiling ako nga ipaagom ko ang akon puwerte nga kaakig sa ila didto sa kamingawan.
Pero nagsumpa ako sa ila didto sa kamingawan nga laptahon ko sila sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon,
tungod kay wala nila pagtumana ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan, kag wala nila pagpakabalaana ang mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga akon ginpatuman sa ila. Ginpasulabi pa nila ang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios sang ila mga katigulangan.
Ginpabay-an ko sila nga tumanon nila ang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan nga indi maayo kag indi makahatag sa ila sang maayo nga kabuhi.
Ginpabay-an ko man sila nga higkuan nila ang ila kaugalingon paagi sa ila mga halad sa mga dios-dios sa mga dios-dios lakip na diri ang paghalad nila sang ila kamagulangan nga mga anak nga lalaki. Gintugutan ko ini para maurungan kag mahadlukan gid sila kag mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .’
“Gani, anak sang tawo, silinga ang katawhan sang Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: ‘Ang inyo mga katigulangan padayon nga nag-insulto kag nagluib sa akon.
Kay sang gindala ko sila sa duta nga akon ginpromisa nga ihatag sa ila, naghalad sila sang mga halad, mga mahamot nga insenso, kag mga ilimnon sa mataas nga mga lugar kag sa madabong nga mga kahoy nga ila makita. Gani nangakig gid ako sa ila.
Nagpamangkot ako sa ila, “Ano gid bala inang mataas nga lugar nga inyo ginakadtuan?” ’ (Hasta subong ato nga lugar ginatawag nga ‘simbahan sa mataas nga lugar’.)
“Karon, silinga ang katawhan sang Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: ‘Higkuan man bala ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon pareho sang ginhimo sang inyo mga katigulangan, kag magsimba man bala kamo sa ila makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios?
Karon gani ginahigkuan ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon paagi sa paghalad sa inyo mga dios-dios lakip na diri ang paghalad ninyo sa inyo mga anak nga lalaki sa kalayo. Gani, katawhan sang Israel, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, indi gid maghatag sang mensahi sa inyo bisan magpangayo pa kamo.
“ ‘Indi gid matabo ang ara sa inyo hunahuna nga mangin pareho kamo sa iban nga mga nasyon nga ang ila katawhan nagasimba sa dios-dios nga hinimo halin sa bato kag kahoy.
Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga magagahom ako sa inyo paagi sa akon puwerte nga gahom kag kaakig.
Huo, Huo, sa akon puwerte nga gahom kag kaakig, kuhaon ko kamo halin sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon nga sa diin naglalapta kamo,
kag dal-on sa kamingawan sang mga katawhan. Kag didto, atubangon ko kamo kag hukman.
Hukman ko kamo, subong nga ginhukman ko ang inyo mga katigulangan sa kamingawan sang Egypt. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Painon ko ang mga malain sa inyo, kag palig-unon ko ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo.
Iseparar ko sa inyo ang mga nagarebelde sa akon. Bisan paguwaon ko pa sila sa nasyon nga sa diin sila nabihag, indi gihapon sila makabalik sa duta sang Israel. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios sa katawhan sang Israel, “Sige, padayon kamo sa pag-alagad sa inyo mga dios-dios kon indi kamo gusto magtuman sa akon. Pero magaabot ang tion nga indi na gid ninyo pagpakahuy-an ang akon ngalan paagi sa paghalad sa inyo mga dios-dios.
Kay didto sa akon balaan nga bukid, sa mataas nga bukid sang Israel, ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel magaalagad sa akon. Didto pagabatunon ko kamo kag pangabayon nga maghalad sang nagkalain-lain nga halad kag espesyal nga mga regalo.
Kon makuha ko na kamo sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon nga sa diin naglalapta kamo, batunon ko kamo pareho sang mahamot nga halad. Ipakita ko sa inyo ang akon pagkabalaan samtang nagatulok ang iban nga mga nasyon.
Kag kon madala ko na kamo sa duta sang Israel nga akon ginsumpa nga ihatag sa inyo mga katigulangan, mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag didto madumduman ninyo ang inyo mga ginhimo nga nakapahigko sa inyo, kag kaugtan ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon tungod sa tanan ninyo nga malain nga mga binuhatan.
Mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , O katawhan sang Israel, kon trataron ko kamo sing maayo tungod sa akon ngalan sa pihak sang inyo malain kag mahigko nga mga binuhatan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, mag-atubang ka sa south kag maghambal kontra sa sini nga lugar nga may mga kakahuyan.
Ihambal sa sini nga lugar nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , magadabok sang kalayo nga magasunog sang iya kakahuyan laya man ukon hilaw. Indi gid mapatay ang nagadabadaba nga kalayo. Sunugon sini ang tanan nga butang halin sa south hasta sa north.
Makita sang tanan nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang nagtutod sini, kag indi gid ini mapatay.”
Dayon nagsiling ako, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , ang mga tawo nagasiling nga nagahambal lang ako sang mga paanggid.”
“Anak sang tawo, mag-atubang ka sa Jerusalem kag maghambal kontra sa Israel kag sa mga simbahan sini.
Silinga sila nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kontra ko kamo! Gabuton ko ang akon espada kag pamatyon ko kamo tanan, maayo man ukon malain.
Huo, Huo, pamatyon ko kamo tanan sang akon espada halin sa south hasta sa north.
Dayon mahibaluan sang tanan nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Gin-gabot ko ang akon espada, kag indi ko ini pag-ibalik sa iya tagob hasta nga indi matapos ang pagpamatay sini hasta nga indi matapos ang pagpamatay sini .
“Gani, anak sang tawo, mag-ugayong ka sa puwerte nga kasubo kag kasakit sang tagipusuon. Mag-ugayong ka sa ila atubangan.
Kon mamangkot sila kon ngaa nagaugayong ka, silinga sila nga tungod sa balita nga makapakurog, makapaluya, makapahadlok kag makapalipong sa ila. Matabo gid ini nga mga butang sa indi madugay. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ginbaid ko ang akon espada kag ginpahining, kag handa na ini nga gamiton sa pagpamatay.
“Anak sang tawo, maghibi ka sing tudo kag pukpuka ang imo dughan sa kasubo kay ina nga espada magapatay sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon kag sa ila mga pangulo.
Ini isa ka pagtilaw sa akon katawhan. Indi sila maghunahuna nga indi ko pagpadayunon ang akon pagdisiplina nga ginayaguta nila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Gani, anak sang tawo, magsugid ka sang akon mensahi. Isumbag ang imo inumol sa imo palad sa kaakig sa kaakig , kag magkuha ka sang espada kag ilabo ini sing duha ukon tatlo ka beses bilang simbolo nga madamo ang magakalamatay sa ila sa inaway.
Magakurog sila sa kahadlok kag madamo ang malaglag sa ila. Ginbutang ko na ang espada sa mga puwertahan sang ila siyudad sa pagpatay sa ila. Nagaigrab ini pareho sang kilat kag handa sa pagpamatay.
O espada, magpanglabo ka sa wala kag sa tuo. Magpanglabo ka bisan diin ka magliso.
Isumbag ko man ang akon inumol sa akon palad sa kaakig sa kaakig , kag dayon madula ang akon kaakig. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, maghimo ka sang mapa kag markahi ini sang duha ka dalan nga pagaagyan sang hari sang Babilonia nga may dala nga espada. Ining duha ka dalan magaumpisa sa Babilonia. Magbutang ka sang karatula sa ginsang-an sang duha ka dalan para mahibaluan kon diin pakadto ining duha ka dalan.
Ang isa ka dalan pakadto sa Raba, ang kapital sang Ammon, kag ang isa pakadto sa Jerusalem, ang napaderan nga kapital sang Juda.
Kay ang hari sang Babilonia magatindog sa ginsang-an sang duha ka dalan kag hibaluon niya kon sa diin siya nga dalan maagi paagi sa paggabot-gabot sang pana,
Ang iya magabot nga pana amo ang may marka nga Jerusalem. Dayon magasinggit siya sa pagsalakay sa Jerusalem kag sa pagpamatay sang mga pumuluyo sini. Magabutang siya sang dalagko nga mga kahoy nga pangwasak sa puwertahan sang Jerusalem. Magahimo siya sang tore-tore kag magatumpok sang duta sa kilid sang pader sang siyudad para mataklas ini.
Indi makapati ang mga taga-Jerusalem nga matabo ini sa ila tungod kay may kasugtanan sila sa Babilonia. Pero ang hari sang Babilonia magapadumdom sa ila sang ila mga sala, kag dayon pagabihagon niya sila.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa ila: sa ila: Ang inyo mga sala nabuyagyag, kag ginapakita gid ninyo kon daw ano kamo ka rebelde kag makasasala. Tungod nga ginahimo ninyo ini, ipabihag ko kamo.
“Ikaw nga malain kag makasasala nga pangulo sang Israel, nag-abot na ang tion nga silutan ka!
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kuhaa ang imo turban kag korona, kay ang tanan lain na. Ang mga kubos mangin dungganon, kag ang mga dungganon mangin kubos.
Laglagon ko gid ang Jerusalem! Indi ini pagpatindugon liwat hasta nga mag-abot ang akon pinili nga magahukom sa sini nga siyudad; kay siya ang akon gintugyanan sini.
“Kag ikaw nga anak sang tawo, silinga ang mga Ammonhon nga nagainsulto sa Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa ila: Handa na ang espada sa pagpamatay. Ginpahining gid ini para mag-igrab pareho sang kilat.
Indi matuod ang mga palanan-awon kag mga propesiya nga nabaton ninyo parte sa espada. Ang matuod, handa na ang espada sa pag-utod sang mga liog sang mga malain nga tawo. Ang tion sang pagsilot sa ila nag-abot na.
Ibalik ko bala ang espada sa tagob? Indi! Indi! Sentensyahan ko kamo sa inyo mismo nasyon, sa lugar nga sa diin kamo natawo.
Ipaagom ko sa inyo ang akon puwerte nga kaakig, kag itugyan ko kamo sa mapintas nga mga tawo, nga hanas sa pagpamatay.
Mangin gatong kamo, kag ang inyo dugo magaagay sa inyo duta. Wala sing may magdumdom sa inyo. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, handa ka na bala sa pagsentensya sa Jerusalem? Handa ka na bala sa pagsentensya sa sini nga siyudad sang mga kriminal? Pahibalua siya sa tanan niya nga makangilil-ad nga binuhatan,
kag silinga siya nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Siyudad sang mga kriminal, magaabot sa imo ang kalaglagan. Ginadagtaan mo ang imo kaugalingon paagi sa paghimo sang mga dios-dios.
May salabton ka tungod sang imo pagpamatay kag tungod sa pagdagta mo sang imo kaugalingon paagi sa paghimo sang mga dios-dios. Nag-abot na ang imo katapusan. Gani kadlawan ka kag yagutaon sang mga nasyon.
Siyudad nga bantog sa kalautan kag puwerte nga kagamo, yagutaon ka gid sang mga nasyon nga ara sa malayo kag sa malapit.
Tan-awa bala ang tagsa ka pangulo sang Israel nga nagaestar sa imo, ginagamit nila ang ila gahom sa pagpamatay.
Dira sa imo wala na ginatahod ang mga ginikanan. Ang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar sa imo ginapanguwartahan, kag ang mga ilo kag mga balo nga babayi wala ginatratar sing maayo.
Wala mo ginatahod ang akon balaan nga mga butang kag wala mo ginapakabalaan ang mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nga ginapatuman ko.
May mga tawo dira sa imo nga nagabinutig para ipapatay ang iban. May ara man nga nagakaon sang mga halad sa mga dios-dios sa mga simbahan sang mga halad sa mga dios-dios sa mga simbahan sa mga bukid kag nagahimo sang binastos nga mga buluhaton.
May ara man dira nga nagapakighilawas sa asawa sang ila amay ukon nagapanglugos sa babayi nga ginaregla.
May ara man nga nagapakighilawas sa asawa sang iban, ukon sa iya umagad nga babayi, ukon sa iya utod nga babayi.
Ang iban nagabaton sang suhol sa pagpatay sang tawo, nagapautang sang sakaan nga sobra-sobra, kag nagamanggaranon paagi sa pagpanguwarta. Nalimtan na gid nila ako. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“ Mga taga-Jerusalem, Mga taga-Jerusalem, isumbag ko ang akon inumol sa akon palad sa kaakig sa kaakig tungod sa inyo pagpanguwarta kag pagpamatay.
Ano, makapadayon bala ang inyo kaisog kag kabaskog sa tion nga silutan ko kamo? Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling nga silutan ko gid kamo nga silutan ko gid kamo , kag himuon ko gid ini.
Palaptahon ko kamo sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, kag pauntaton ko ang inyo mga ginahimo nga nagapahigko sa inyo.
Pakahuy-an kamo sang iban nga mga nasyon, kag dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling naman ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, ang katawhan sang Israel nangin wala sing pulos para sa akon. Pareho sila sa saway, lata, salsalon, ukon tingga nga nabilin sa hurnohan matapos mapapuraw ang pilak.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Tungod kay nangin wala kamo sing pulos, pagatipunon ko kamo sa Jerusalem,
Subong nga ang pilak ginatunaw sa hurnohan, daw pareho man sina ang himuon ko sa Jerusalem, kag dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagpaagom sang akon kaakig sa inyo.”
Nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, silinga ang mga Israelinhon nga tungod nga indi sila magtugot nga tinluan ko sila indi ko gid sila pagkaluoyan
Ang ila mga pangulo nagaplano sing malain. Pareho sila sa nagangurob nga leon nga nagagus-ab sang iya biktima. Nagapamatay sila sang mga tawo, nagapanguha sang manggad kag malahalon nga mga butang, kag madamo nga babayi ang nabalo tungod sang ila pagpamatay.
Ang ila mga pari wala nagatuman sang akon kasuguan, kag gindagtaan nila ang akon balaan nga mga butang. Para sa ila, pareho lang ang balaan kag ang indi balaan, ang matinlo kag ang mahigko, kag wala nila ginasunod ang akon mga ginapatuman sa mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Gani wala nila ako ginatahod.
Ang ila mga opisyal pareho sang mabangis nga mga ido
Ang ila mga propeta nagatabon-tabon pa sang ila mga sala paagi sa indi matuod nga mga palanan-awon kag mga panagna. Nagasiling sila nga amo kuno ato ang ginsiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios bisan wala magsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang mga tawo nagapanguwarta kag nagapangawat. Ginadaogdaog nila ang mga imol kag ang mga pangayaw. Wala nila sila ginahatagan sang hustisya.
“Nagpangita ako sang isa ka tawo nga makadepensa sang siyudad kag makapatunga sa akon kag sa mga tawo para indi ko paggub-on ini nga siyudad, pero wala ako sing may nakita.
Gani ipaagom ko sa ila ang akon puwerte nga kaakig. Laglagon ko sila tungod sang ila mga ginhimo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, sadto anay may duha ka mag-utod nga babayi.
Sang bataon pa sila, nagabaligya sila sang ila lawas sa Egypt. Ginapabay-an lang nila ang mga lalaki nga magpaayaw sa ila mga lawas.
Ang ngalan sang magulang amo si Ohola, kag ang manghod amo si Oholiba. Ginpangasawa ko sila nga duha kag may mga anak kami. Si Ohola amo ang Samaria, kag si Oholiba amo ang Jerusalem.
“Bisan asawa ko na si Ohola, nagapadayon gihapon siya sa pagbaligya sang iya lawas, kag nagalagas gid siya sa iya mga kerido nga mga taga-Assyria nga malapit sa iya.
Mga guwapo sila kag bataon nga mga lalaki. Mga kapitan sila kag mga kumander nga nakauniporme sang asol, kag mga manugkabayo pa.
Nagpakighilawas si Ohola sa tanan nga opisyal sang Assyria, kag gindagtaan niya ang iya kaugalingon paagi sa pagsimba sa ila mga dios-dios.
Wala gid siya nag-untat sa pagbaligya sang iya lawas halin sang didto pa siya sa Egypt. Sang bataon pa siya nagpakighilawas na siya, kag ang mga lalaki nagpaayaw sa iya lawas.
“Gani gintugyan ko siya sa kamot sang iya mga kerido nga mga taga-Assyria nga ginalagas gid niya.
Gin-ubahan nila siya, ginpatay paagi sa espada, kag ginbihag ang iya mga anak. Ang natabo nga pagsilot sa iya amo ang ginahambalan sang mga kababayihan.
“Bisan pa nga nakita ni Oholiba ang natabo sa iya utod, nagpadayon gihapon siya sa pagbaligya sang iya lawas, kag nangin mas malain pa siya nga babayi sang sa iya utod.
Naglagas man siya sa mga taga-Assyria nga mga guwapo kag bataon nga mga lalaki. Ini sila mga kapitan kag mga kumander nga nakauniporme, kag mga manugkabayo pa.
Nakita ko nga pareho siya sa iya utod; gindagtaan man niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Tungod nga naluyag siya sa ila, nagpasugo siya sa Babilonia sa pag-imbitar sa sini nga mga opisyal sa pagkadto sa iya.
Gani nagkadto sila sa iya kag nagpakighilawas sa iya. Sa ila nga pagpakighilawas sa iya, gindagtaan nila siya. Pero sang ulihi tinak-an siya kag nagbulag siya sa ila.
“Ginkangil-aran kag gintalikdan ko si Oholiba pareho sang akon ginhimo sa iya utod tungod kay nagapadayon siya sa pagbaligya sang iya lawas sing hayag.
Pero sa pihak sini, padayon pa gid siya nga nagbaligya sang iya lawas pareho sang iya ginhimo didto sa Egypt sang bataon pa siya.
Nagalagas gid siya sa iya mga kerido nga ang ila kinatawo pareho kadako kadako sang iya sang mga donkey kag ang ila semilya pareho kadamo kadamo sang iya sang mga kabayo.
Gani, Oholiba, Oholiba, nagbalik ka sa imo binastos nga buluhaton nga imo ginhimo sadto sa Egypt sang bataon ka pa. Didto nagpaayaw ang mga lalaki sa imo lawas.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa imo Oholiba, ipasalakay ko ikaw sa imo mga kerido nga imo gintalikdan sang tinak-an ka na sa ila.
Sila amo ang mga taga-Babilonia kag ang mga Kaldeanhon nga halin sa Pekod, Shoa, Koa, kag ang mga taga-Assyria. Ini sila mga guwapo kag bataon nga mga lalaki. Mga kapitan sila, mga kumander, mga manugkarwahe nga mga opisyal, kag iban pa nga mataas nga opisyal. Mga manugkabayo pa sila tanan.
Magasalakay sila sa imo halin sa north nga may madamo nga soldado, mga kabayo, kag mga karwahe. May mga taming sila kag mga helmet, kag libutan ka nila. Itugyan ko ikaw sa ila para silutan, kag silutan ka nila sang silot nga suno sa ila bagay sa imo.
Sa akon puwerte nga kaakig sa imo, pasilutan ko ikaw sa ila. Kag sa ila kaakig utdon nila ang imo ilong kag mga dulunggan. Bihagon nila ang imo mga anak, kag ang mabilin sa imo pamatyon nila sa espada ukon sunugon.
Ubahan man nila ikaw kag kuhaon ang imo mga alahas.
Mauntat na dayon ang imo binastos nga buluhaton nga amo ang pagbaligya sang imo lawas, nga gin-umpisahan mo sa Egypt. Indi mo na pagdumdumon ina, kag kalimtan mo na ang Egypt.
Kay ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga itugyan ko ikaw sa kamot sang mga tawo nga imo ginadumtan; atong imo mga gintalikdan sang tinak-an ka na sa ila.
Silutan ka nila sa ila kaakig, kag kuhaon nila ang tanan mo nga mga ginpangabudlayan. Bayaan ka nila nga hublas, kag makita sang mga tawo ang makahuluya mo nga kahimtangan tungod sang imo binastos nga buluhaton nga amo ang pagbaligya sang imo lawas.
Amo ini ang nagdala sa imo sa kalaglagan, kay nagpakighilawas ka sa mga taga-iban nga mga nasyon kag ginhigkuan mo ang imo kaugalingon paagi sa pagsimba sa ila mga dios-dios.
Ginsunod mo ang ginhimo sang imo utod nga babayi, gani silutan ko man ikaw pareho sang akon pagsilot sa iya.
“ Huo, ako, Huo, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga silutan ko ikaw pareho sang akon pagsilot sa imo utod nga babayi. Ang akon silot pareho sang ilimnon sa kupa nga dako kag madalom. Kag kon mainom mo na ini nga kupa nga puno sang akon kaakig, pagayagutaon kag pagainsultuhon ka.
Mahubog ka kag masubuan, kay ang kupa nga ini puno sang kalaglagan. Amo ini ang kupa sang pag-antos nga nainom sang pag-antos nga nainom sang imo utod nga Samaria.
Siputon mo gid ini inom, kag dayon buk-on mo ang kupa, kag pukpukon mo ang imo dughan sa kasubo sa kasubo . Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Kag tungod kay ginkalimtan mo ako kag gintalikdan, ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga magaantos ka gid tungod sang imo binastos nga buluhaton nga amo ang pagbaligya sang imo lawas.”
Nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, sentensyahi si Ohola kag si Oholiba. Ipahibalo sa ila ang ila makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan.
Kay nagpanginlalaki sila kag nagpamatay. Nagpanginlalaki sila paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios, kag ang ila mga anak mismo, nga gindedikar nila sa akon sang natawo sila, ginhalad nila sa mga dios-dios bilang pagkaon sini.
Nagpasugat pa gani sila sang mga tinawo halin sa malayo nga mga lugar. Kag sang pag-abot sini nga mga lalaki, nagpaligo sila kag nagpaguwapa, kag nagsuksok sang mga alahas.
Nagpungko dayon sila sa matahom nga katre, nga sa atubang sini may lamisa. May ginbutang sila didto sa lamisa nga insenso kag lana nga ihalad kuntani sa akon.
Mabatian sa ila kuwarto ang ginahod sang mga hubog kag nagapatawhay-tawhay nga mga tawo, nga naghalin sa kamingawan. Ginpasuksukan sila sang sini nga mga tawo sang pulseras kag ginbutangan sang matahom nga korona.
Dayon nagsiling ako sa akon kaugalingon sa akon kaugalingon , ‘Pagusto sila nga magpakighilawas sa sina nga mga babayi nga nagtigulang na lang sa pagbaligya sang ila lawas.’
Amo gani ang ila ginhimo. Naghulid sila sa kay Ohola kag kay Oholiba, ang duha ka bastos nga mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas.
Pero ini nga mga babayi silutan sang matarong nga mga tawo sing silot nga nagakabagay gid sa ila nga pagpanginlalaki kag pagpamatay.
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , magasugo sang mga tawo nga magasalakay sa ila. Ini nga mga tawo magapahadlok sa ila, magaagaw sang ila mga pagkabutang,
magabato sa ila, kag magapatay sa ila sa espada. Pamatyon man ang ila mga kabataan kag sunugon ang ila mga balay.
Sa sini nga paagi mapauntat ko ang binastos nga buluhaton sa sini nga nasyon. Kag ini mangin paandam man sa iban nga indi gid magsunod sa ila ginhimo.
Kag kamo nga duha ka mag-utod, magaantos gid kamo tungod sa inyo binastos nga buluhaton kag pagsimba sa mga dios-dios. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoong Dios Dios .”
Sang ikanapulo nga adlaw sang ikanapulo nga bulan, sang ikasiyam nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag sang amon pagkabihag , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, isulat ang petsa subong nga adlaw kay amo gid ini nga adlaw nga nagasugod sa pagsalakay ang hari sang Babilonia sa Jerusalem.
“Magbutang ka sang tubig sa kaldero kag isun-ad.
Butangi ini sang maayo nga parte sang karne—mga abaga kag mga paa. Ilakot man ang mga tul-an.
Ang karne lang sang pinakamaayo nga karnero ang imo gamiton. Gatungi ang kaldero kag lagaa ang karne kag mga tul-an.
Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kaluluoy ang siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem nga ang mga pumuluyo sini mga manugpatay. Pareho ini sa tuktukon nga kaldero nga wala malimpyuhi. Gani kuhaa sing tag-isa-isa ang sulod sini kag indi pagpilia.
Kay ang iya pagpamatay hayag sa tanan. Ang dugo sang iya ginpamatay ginpabay-an lang niya sa mga bato nga makita sang tanan. Wala gid niya ini gintabunan sang duta.
Nakita ko ini nga dugo kag ginpabay-an ko ini nga makita sang tanan. Daw sa nagasinggit ini sa akon nga magbalos ako.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: ‘Kaluluoy ang siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem nga ang mga pumuluyo sini mga manugpatay! Ako mismo ang magatumpok sang gatong para sunugon siya para sunugon siya .
Sige, dugangi pa gid ninyo ang gatong, kag dayon sindihan. Lagaa ang karne hasta nga mahubsan
Itungtong dayon ang kaldero nga wala na sing sulod sa mga baga hasta nga magbaga man ini. Sa sini nga paagi, malimpyuhan kuntani kuntani ang kaldero kag masunog ang mga tuktok.
Pero bisan anhon mo pa, ang tuktok indi gid makuha sang kalayo.
“ ‘ Jerusalem, Jerusalem, ang imo binastos nga buluhaton amo ang nagdagta sa imo. Gintinguhaan ko nga limpyuhan ka, pero indi ka magpalimpyo. Gani magapabilin ka nga mahigko hasta indi madula ang akon kaakig sa imo.
Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga nag-abot na ang tion nga maghulag na ako, kag wala sing may makapugong sa akon. Indi ko gid kamo pagkaluoyan, kag indi na magliwat ang akon hunahuna. Pagahukman kamo suno sa inyo pagginawi kag binuhatan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
“Anak sang tawo, kuhaon ko gulpi ang babayi nga palangga mo gid. Pero indi mo siya paghibian kag pagpangasubuan.
Mag-ugayong ka lang sing hinay. Indi mo pag-ipakita nga nagapangasubo ka. Indi paghuksa ang imo turban kag sandalyas, kag indi pagtabuni ang imo guya. Indi ka man magkaon sang kalan-on nga ginakaon sang mga nagapangasubo sa patay sa patay .”
Gani sang aga ginhambal ko ato sa mga tawo, kag pagkagab-i napatay ang akon asawa. Kag pagkasunod nga aga gintuman ko ang ginsugo sa akon.
Dayon nagpamangkot ang mga tawo sa akon, “Ano bala ang buot mo silingon sa ginahimo mo nga ina?”
Kag pagahimuon ninyo ang ginhimo ni Ezekiel. Indi ninyo pagtabunan ang inyo guya, kag indi kamo magkaon sang kalan-on nga ginakaon sang mga nagapangasubo sa patay sa patay .
Indi man ninyo paghukson ang inyo mga turban kag mga sandalyas. Indi kamo maghibi ukon magpangasubo. Magapalangluya kamo nga nagaugayong sa isa kag isa tungod sa inyo mga sala.
Si Ezekiel mangin isa ka halimbawa sa inyo. Kon ano ang iya ginahimo, pagahimuon man ninyo. Kon matabo na ina nga silot nga silot mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoong Dios Dios .”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, sa tion nga gub-on ko na ang templo nga templo nga ila dalangpan, nga ila ginapabugal, ginapakamahal kag ginakalipay, kag pamatyon ko na ang ila mga kabataan,
may isa ka tawo nga makapalagyo halin sa Jerusalem halin sa Jerusalem nga magasugid sini sa imo.
Sa sina nga tion, makahambal ka na liwat kag magaestoryahanay kamo nga duha. Mangin paandam ka sa mga tawo, kag mahibaluan dayon nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
“Anak sang tawo, mag-atubang ka sa Ammon kag magwali kontra sa sini nga lugar.
Silinga ang iya mga pumuluyo nga magpamati sa akon kay ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling, ‘Tungod kay nalipay kamo sang pagkaguba sang akon templo kag sang pagkalaglag sang Israel, kag sang pagkabihag sang katawhan sang Juda,
ipasakop ko kamo sa mga tawo sa east, kag panag-iyahan nila kamo. Magakampo sila sa inyo, kag kaunon nila ang inyo mga prutas kag imnon ang inyo gatas.
Himuon ko nga palahalban
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling, ‘Tungod kay nagpamalakpak kamo kag nagtumbo-tumbo sa kalipay sa pag-insulto sa Israel,
silutan ko gid kamo. Itugyan ko kamo sa iban nga mga nasyon nga magaagaw sang inyo mga pagkabutang. Laglagon ko gid kamo sing bug-os hasta nga wala na sing may mabilin sa inyo nga mangin isa ka nasyon. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Ang Moab, nga ginatawag man nga Seir, nagsiling nga ang Juda pareho man lang sang iban nga mga nasyon.
Gani ipasalakay ko ang mga banwa sa border sang Moab, pati na ang mga nagapanguna nila nga mga banwa pareho sang Bet Jeshimot, Baal Meon, kag Kiriataim—ang mga banwa nga ila ginapabugal.
Ipasakop ko man sila sa mga tawo sa east, kag panag-iyahan sila, pareho sa mga taga-Ammon. Kag subong nga ang mga taga-Ammon indi na pagkabigon nga isa sa mga nasyon, amo man ang Moab amo man ang Moab .
Silutan ko gid ang Moab, dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Nagbalos ang Edom sa Juda, kag tungod sini nakasala ang Edom.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios, Dios, nagasiling nga silutan ko ang Edom kag pamatyon ang iya katawhan kag mga kasapatan. Himuon ko ini nga mamingaw halin sa Teman hasta sa Dedan, kag magakalamatay ang ila mga pumuluyo sa inaway.
Magabalos ako sa Edom paagi sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon. Silutan nila ang mga taga-Edom suno sa akon puwerte nga kaakig, kag mahibaluan sang mga taga-Edom kon paano ako magbalos. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Nagplano ang Filistia sa paglaglag sa Juda bilang pagbalos kag tungod sa dugay na nila nga pagdumtanay.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga silutan ko ang mga Filistinhon. Pamatyon ko ang mga Keretnon kag ang iban pa nga mga nagaestar malapit sa dagat.
Sa akon kaakig balusan ko gid sila kag silutan. Kag kon mabalusan ko na sila, mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Karon, sang nahauna nga adlaw sang bulan,
“Anak sang tawo, nagkalipay ang mga taga-Tyre sa pagkalaglag sang Jerusalem. Nagsiling sila, ‘Nalaglag na ang importante nga importante nga alagyan sang mga negosyante sang mga negosyante sang mga nasyon. Kag karon kita naman ang kabigon nga importante. Kag tungod nga nalaglag na ang Jerusalem, kita naman ang magauswag.’
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kontrahon ko ang Tyre. Ipasalakay ko ini sa madamo nga nasyon nga daw sa mga balod nga nagahuganas.
Gub-on nila ang iya mga pader kag rumpagon ang iya mga tore. Kagison nila ang iya duta hasta nga bato na lang ang mabilin.
Mangin bululadan na lang ini sang mga pukot sa higad sang baybay. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini. Itugyan ko ang Tyre sa iban nga mga nasyon nga magaagaw sang iya mga pagkabutang,
kag ang iya mga pumuluyo sa kaumahan pamatyon paagi sa espada. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Mga taga-Tyre, ipasalakay ko sa inyo si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia, ang hari nga labaw sa tanan nga hari. Magasalakay siya halin sa north nga may madamo nga soldado, mga karwahe, mga kabayo, kag mga manugkabayo.
Ipapatay niya ang inyo mga pumuluyo sa kaumahan paagi sa espada. Magasalakay ang iya mga soldado nga may mga tore-tore, kag mga taming, kag magatumpok sila sang duta sa kilid sang inyo mga pader sa pagtaklas sini.
Ipawasak niya ang inyo mga pader paagi sa dalagko nga mga troso kag iparumpag ang inyo mga tore paagi sa mga maso.
Tabunan kamo sang yab-ok nga nagatap-ok halin sa mga tiil sang iya mga kabayo nga puwerte kadamo. Magatay-og ang inyo mga pader tungod sa iya nagahinagunos nga mga kabayo kag mga karwahe nga nagapasulod sa mga puwertahan sang inyo naguba nga siyudad.
Tasak-tasakon sang iya mga kabayo ang tanan ninyo nga mga karsada. Ipapatay niya ang inyo mga pumuluyo paagi sa espada, kag ang inyo mapag-on nga mga haligi magakalarumpag.
Pang-agawon nila ang inyo mga manggad kag ang inyo mga baligya. Panggub-on nila ang inyo mga pader kag ang manami ninyo nga mga balay, kag ihaboy dayon nila sa dagat ang mga bato, mga kahoy kag ang tanan nga nabilin sa nagkalaguba.
Pauntaton ko ang inyo pagkinanta kag pagtinukar sang mga arpa.
Himuon ko na lang ang inyo lugar nga isa ka malapad nga bato nga bululadan sang mga pukot. Indi na gid pagtukuron liwat ang inyo siyudad. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios sa mga taga-Tyre, “Ang mga nagaestar malapit sa dagat magakulurog sa kahadlok kon mabatian nila ang inyo pagkalaglag kag pagkalamatay, kag ang pag-inugayong sang mga napilasan sa inyo.
Ang mga pangulo sang mga lugar nga malapit sa dagat magapanaog sa ila trono kag magauba sang ila harianon nga bayo kag sang ila pangsulod nga bayo nga matahom. Kag magapungko sila sa duta nga nagakurog sa kahadlok tungod sa inyo gindangatan.
Dayon magapanalambiton sila sini para sa inyo: ‘Daw ano ang imo pagkalaglag, ikaw nga bantog nga siyudad nga ginaestaran sang mga tawo nga ang ila palangabuhian ara sa dagat. Gamhanan gid ikaw sa kadagatan kag nahadlok sa imo ang tanan nga nagaestar malapit sa dagat.
Karon, nagakulurog sa kahadlok ang mga nagaestar malapit sa dagat tungod sa imo pagkalaglag.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “ Tyre, Tyre, mangin mamingaw ka nga siyudad nga wala na sing may nagaestar. Palapawan ko ikaw sang madalom nga tubig.
Ilubong ko ikaw sa kadadalman kaupod sadtong mga tawo sang una nga panahon. Magapabilin ka nga guba sa idalom sang duta kaupod sadtong mga tawo nga nagkaladto sa kadadalman. Indi ka na makabalik sa lugar sang mga buhi.
Tapuson ko na ikaw, kag makahaladlok ang imo katapusan. Madula ka na; bisan pangitaon ka, indi ka na gid makita. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, magpanalambiton ka parte sa Tyre,
ang siyudad nga siyudad nga dulungkaan sang mga barko
Ginpalapad mo ang imo teritoryo sa dagat. Ginpatahom ka gid sang mga nagtukod sa imo.
Pareho ka sa dako nga sakayan nga hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sipres nga halin sa Senir. Ang imo palo hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sedro nga halin sa Lebanon.
Ang imo mga bugsay hinimo halin sa kahoy nga terebinto nga halin sa Bashan. Kag ang imo salog hinimo halin sa kahoy nga sipres nga halin sa isla
Ang imo layag binordahan nga linen nga halin sa Egypt, kag daw sa bandera ini tan-awon. Ang imo trapal asol kag granate
Ang imo mga manugbugsay mga taga-Sidon kag taga-Arvad, kag ang imo hanas nga mga tripulante halin mismo sa imo.
Mga eksperiensyado nga mga panday halin sa Gebal ang nagakay-o sang imo mga guba. Nagakadto sa imo ang mga tripulante sang iban nga mga sakayan kag nagapakignegosyo sa imo.
Ang imo mga soldado taga-Persia, Lydia kag Put. Ginasab-it nila ang ila mga taming kag mga helmet sa imo dingding, dingding, kag nakahatag ini sa imo sang kadungganan.
Mga taga-Arvad kag taga-Helec ang nagabantay sang imo mga pader sa palibot, kag ang mga taga-Gammad ang nagabantay sang imo mga tore. Ginasab-it nila ang ila mga taming palibot sa imo dingding, kag nakahatag ini sa imo sang kompleto nga kadungganan.
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo ang Tarshish sa imo kay madamo ang imo manggad. Ang ila ginbayad sa imo mga baligya pilak, salsalon, lata, kag tingga.
Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang Greece,
Ang ginbayad naman sang mga taga-Bet Togarma sa imo mga baligya mga kabayo nga inug-obra, mga kabayo nga para sa inaway, kag mga mula.
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang mga taga-Dedan,
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang Aram
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang Juda kag Israel. Ang ila ginbayad sa imo mga baligya trigo nga halin sa Minnit, higos,
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang Damascus tungod sang imo madamo nga manggad kag produkto. Ang ila ginbayad sa imo mga baligya bino nga halin sa Helbon kag delana
Ang taga-Dan kag taga-Javan nga halin sa Uzal nagapakignegosyo man sa imo nagapakignegosyo man sa imo . Ang ila ginbayad sa imo mga baligya mga salsalon kag mga panakot.
“ ‘Ang ginbayad sang mga taga-Dedan sa imo mga baligya mga tela nga panghapin sa pulungkuan sa likod sang sapat.
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang mga taga-Arabia kag ang tanan nga pangulo sang Kedar. Ang ila ginbayad sa imo mga baligya mga karnero kag mga kanding.
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang mga negosyante sang Sheba kag Raama. Ang ila ginbayad sa imo mga baligya tanan nga klase sang maayo nga mga panakot, mga malahalon nga mga bato, kag bulawan.
“ ‘Nagapakignegosyo man sa imo ang mga taga-Haran, Cane, Eden, ang mga negosyante sa Sheba, Ashur, kag Kilmad.
Ang ila ginbayad sa imo mga baligya mga malahalon nga mga bayo, asol nga mga tela, binordahan nga mga tela, kag mga carpet nga lain-lain sing kolor nga maayo ang pagkatahi.
“ ‘Ang mga barko sang Tarshish amo ang mga manugkarga sang imo mga balaligya. Pareho ka sa barko nga puno sang mga kargaminto samtang nagabiyahe sa kadagatan.
Pero dal-on ka sang imo mga manugbugsay sa lawod, kag wasakon ka sang mabaskog nga mabaskog nga hangin halin sa east.
Ang tanan nga ara sa imo magakalalunod: ang imo manggad, mga baligya, mga tripulante, mga marinero, mga panday, mga negosyante, kag ang tanan mo nga mga soldado. Magakalalunod ini tanan sa lawod sa adlaw nga mawasak ka.
“ ‘Magakurog sa kahadlok ang mga nagaestar malapit sa dagat kon mabatian nila ang sininggit sang mga tripulante nga nagakalalunod nga nagakalalunod .
Bayaan sang mga manugbugsay ang ila mga sakayan kag magatindog sila sa baybayon kaupod sang mga marinero kag mga tripulante,
kag magahibi sila sing tudo tungod sa natabo sa imo. Sabwagan nila sang yab-ok ang ila mga ulo kag magligid sila sa abo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang ila pagpangasubo .
Kiskisan nila ang ila mga ulo kag magsuksok sang sako samtang nagahibi sila sing tudo sa kasubo.
Sa ila pagpangasubo magapanalambiton sila sini: “O Tyre, wala sing may nalunod sa lawod pareho sa natabo sa imo.
Nagbiyahe ka nga dala ang imo mga baligya, kag ini nakabulig sa mga kinahanglanon sang madamo nga nasyon. Nagmanggaranon ang mga hari sa kalibutan tungod sang imo manggad kag mga baligya.
Pero karon wasak ka na kag nalunod sa lawod pati ang imo mga baligya kag ang tanan mo nga mga tripulante.
Ang tanan nga nagaestar malapit sa dagat natingala gid sa imo gindangatan. Ang ila mga hari hinadlukan, kag makita gid ini sa ila mga nawong.
Nagapanagutsot sa katingala sa katingala ang mga negosyante sa mga nasyon tungod sa imo gindangatan. Makahaladlok ang imo katapusan, kag madula ka na hasta san-o.” ’ ”
“Anak sang tawo, silinga ang pangulo sang Tyre nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Sa imo pagkabugalon nagasiling ka nga ikaw isa ka dios nga nagapungko sa trono sa tunga sang kadagatan. Pero ang matuod, bisan nagahunahuna ka nga maalam ka pareho sa isa ka dios, indi ikaw dios kundi tawo lang.
Nagahunahuna ka nga mas maalam ka pa sang sa kay Daniel, nga wala sing sekreto nga indi mo mahibaluan.
Paagi sa imo kaalam kag ihibalo nagmanggaranon ka kag nakatipon sang bulawan kag pilak sa imo talaguan sang manggad.
Paagi man sa imo abilidad sa pagnegosyo, nagdugang pa gid ang imo manggad, kag tungod sang imo manggad nagbugalon ka.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga tungod kay nagahunahuna ka nga maalam ka pareho sa isa ka dios,
ipasalakay ko ikaw sa taga-iban nga lugar nga pinakamapintas sa tanan nga nasyon. Panglaglagon nila ang imo matahom nga mga pagkabutang nga imo naangkon paagi sa imo kaalam. Kag madula ang imo kadungganan.
Masakit ang imo kamatayon; itagbong ka nila sa kadadalman sang dagat.
Ti, makasiling ka pa bala gihapon nga ikaw isa ka dios sa atubangan sang mga magapatay sa imo? Para sa ila tawo ka lang kag indi isa ka dios.
Mapatay ka sa kamot sang taga-iban nga lugar pareho sa kamatayon sang isa ka tawo nga wala nagtuo sa akon.
“Anak sang tawo, magpanalambiton ka parte sa hari sang Tyre. Silinga siya nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Sadto anay isa ikaw ka halimbawa sang pagkaperpekto. Maalam ka kag matahom gid.
Ara ka sadto sa Eden, sa katamnan sang Dios. Nadekorasyunan ka sang nagkalain-lain nga klase sang malahalon nga mga bato: rubi, topas, emeralda, krisolito, onix, jasper, sapiro, turquiso kag berilo. Nadekorasyunan ka man sang bulawan
Ginpili ko ikaw bilang kerubin nga manugbantay sa akon balaan nga bukid. Nagalakat ka sa tunga sang nagabadlak
Wala sing ikasaway sa imo pagginawi halin sang imo pagkatawo hasta sang ulihi nga naghimo ka sang malain.
Ang imo madamo nga negosyo nangin kabangdanan sang imo pagpamintas kag pagpakasala. Gani gintabog ko ikaw halin sa balaan ko nga bukid; ginpahalin ko ikaw sa nagabadlak nga mga bato.
Nangin bugalon ka tungod sang imo katahom, kag gin-gamit mo sa kabuangan ang imo kaalam para mangin bantog ka. Amo ini nga ginhaboy ko ikaw sa duta, kag nangin talan-awon ka sang iban nga iban nga mga hari.
Tungod sang imo madamo nga sala kag pagpangdaya sa negosyo, gindagtaan mo ang mga lugar nga imo ginasimbahan. Gani sa atubangan sang tanan nga nagatan-aw sa imo, gintutdan ko ang imo lugar kag nasunog ka hasta nga nangin abo ka na lang sa duta.
Ang tanan nga nasyon nga nakakilala sa imo hinadlukan sa imo gindangatan. Makahaladlok ang imo katapusan, kag nadula ka na hasta san-o.”
“Anak sang tawo, mag-atubang ka sa Sidon kag magwali kontra sa iya.
Silinga siya nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kontra ko ikaw, Sidon. Dayawon ako sang mga tawo kon silutan ko na ikaw, kag mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Sa sini nga paagi, mapakita ko sa imo ang akon pagkabalaan.
Padal-an ko ikaw sang kahalitan, kag tungod sini magailig ang dugo dira sa imo mga karsada. Salakayon ka palibot, kag madamo gid ang mapatay sa imo mga pumuluyo. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Dayon wala na sang katupad nga mga nasyon ang katawhan sang Israel nga magapangyaguta sa ila, nga magasakit sa ila nga daw sa matalom nga mga tunok. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoong Dios Dios .”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Tipunon ko na ang katawhan sang Israel halin sa mga nasyon nga sa diin naglalapta sila. Paagi sa sining himuon ko sa ila, mapakita ko ang akon pagkabalaan sa mga nasyon. Maestar na dayon ang mga Israelinhon sa ila mismo nga duta, ang duta nga ginhatag ko sa akon alagad nga si Jacob.
Magaestar sila didto nga wala sing katalagman. Magapatindog sila sang mga balay kag magatanom sang mga ubas. Wala na sing may maggamo pa sa ila kon silutan ko na ang tanan nila nga katupad nga mga nasyon nga nagayaguta sa ila. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.”
Sang ikadose nga adlaw sang ikanapulo nga bulan, sang ikanapulo nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag sang amon pagkabihag , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, mag-atubang ka sa Egypt, kag maghambal kontra sa Faraon nga hari sang Egypt, kag sa bilog niya nga katawhan.
Silinga siya nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kontra ko ikaw, Faraon nga hari sang Egypt. Pareho ka sa dako nga buaya nga nagaubog sa imo suba. Nagasiling ka nga imo ang Suba sang Suba sang Nilo, kag ginhimo mo ini para sa imo kaugalingon.
Pero kaw-itan ko sang mga taga ang imo sag-ang, kag guyuron ka patakas halin sa imo suba. Kag samtang ginapatakas ka, may mga isda nga nagatapik sa imo hulohimbis nga panit.
Ihaboy ko ikaw kag ang mga isda sa desierto, kag magahamyang ka sa duta nga wala sing may magkuha kag maglubong sa imo. Ipakaon ko ikaw sa talunon nga mga sapat kag sa mga pispis.
Dayon mahibaluan sang tanan nga nagaestar sa Egypt nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Kay pareho man lang man lang ikaw sang tigbaw nga ginsaligan nga ginsaligan sang katawhan sang Israel.
Sang maghamboy sila sa imo nabiak ka, kag napilas ang ila mga butkon. Sang magsandig sila sa imo nabali ka, gani natumba sila gani natumba sila kag nabali ang ila balikawang.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga ipasalakay ko ikaw sa mga tawo nga magapatay sang imo katawhan kag sang ila mga kasapatan.
“Tungod nga nagasiling ka nga imo ang Suba sang Suba sang Nilo kag ikaw ang naghimo sini,
kontra ko ikaw kag ang imo suba. Laglagon ko ang Egypt kag mangin mamingaw na ini halin sa Migdol pakadto sa Aswan, hasta sa border sang Ethiopia.
Wala sing tawo ukon sapat nga mag-agi dira, kag wala sing may mag-estar sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
Himuon ko ang Egypt nga pinakamamingaw sa tanan nga nasyon. Sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig, ang iya mga banwa mangin pinakamamingaw sa tanan nga banwa. Kag laptahon ko ang mga Egyptohanon sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon.”
Pero nagsiling man ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Sa tapos sang 40 ka tuig, tipunon ko ang mga Egyptohanon halin sa mga nasyon nga sa diin sila naglalapta.
Ibalik ko sila sa Patros sa south sang Egypt sa south sang Egypt , sa duta nga ila ginhalinan. Pero mangin kubos na sila nga ginharian—
pinakakubos sa tanan nga ginharian. Kag indi na gid sila maglabaw pa liwat sa iban nga mga nasyon. Himuon ko sila nga maluya gid nga ginharian nga ginharian para indi na sila makagahom pa liwat sa iban nga mga nasyon.
Indi na gid magsalig liwat ang katawhan sang Israel sa Egypt. Ang gindangatan sang Egypt magapadumdom sa Israel sang ila sala, nga amo ang pagpangayo sang bulig sa Egypt. Dayon mahibaluan sang mga Israelinhon nga ako amo ang Ginoong Dios Dios .”
Sang nahauna nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, sang ika-27 nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag sang amon pagkabihag , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, ang mga soldado ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia nagpakig-away sing tudo sa mga soldado sang Tyre hasta nga nagkalalbo sila kag nagkalatuklap ang panit sa ila mga abaga. Pero wala gid sing may naagaw si Nebucadnezar kag ang iya mga soldado sa mga taga-Tyre.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga itugyan ko ang Egypt kay Nebucadnezar, ang hari sang Babilonia. Agawon niya ang tanan nga manggad sang Egypt bilang bayad sa iya mga soldado.
Itugyan ko sa iya ang Egypt bilang premyo ko sa iya nga pagpangabudlay, tungod kay ginhimo niya ato kag sang iya mga soldado para sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“ Ezekiel, Ezekiel, sa tion nga matabo na ina, pabakuron ko liwat ang Israel, kag mareyalisar sang mga Israelinhon nga matuod ang imo mga ginhambal. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
“Anak sang tawo, isugid mo ang akon mensahi sa mga taga-Egypt sa mga taga-Egypt . Silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Maghibi kamo sing tudo tungod sa inyo palaabuton nga kalaglagan.
Kay madali na lang mag-abot ina nga adlaw, ang adlaw nga magahukom ang Ginoo Ginoo . Magal-om kag madulom ina nga adlaw para sa mga nasyon.
Pagasalakayon ang Egypt, kag magaantos ang Ethiopia.
Sa sina nga inaway, magakalamatay ang mga taga-Ethiopia, Put, Lydia, Arabia, Libya, kag ang iban pa nga mga nasyon nga kadampig sang Egypt.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga malaglag gid ang mga kadampig sang Egypt, kag madula ang ginapabugal niya nga gahom. Magakalamatay ang iya mga pumuluyo halin sa Migdol pakadto sa Aswan.
Mangin pinakamamingaw ang Egypt sa tanan nga nasyon, kag ang iya mga banwa mangin pinakaguba sa tanan nga banwa.
Kon sunugon ko na ang Egypt kag magkalamatay ang tanan nga nagadampig sa iya, mahibaluan sang iya mga pumuluyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Sa sina nga tion, mapadala ako sang mga mensahero nga nagasakay sa mga sakayan sa pagpahadlok sa mga taga-Ethiopia nga nagapatawhay-tawhay lang. Mahadlok gid sila sa tion nga laglagon ang Egypt, kay sigurado gid nga magaabot ina nga tion.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Gamiton ko si Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia sa pagpamatay sang madamo nga katawhan sang Egypt.
Siya kag ang iya mga soldado, nga pinakamapintas sa tanan nga nasyon, ipadala ko sa Egypt sa paglaglag sini. Salakayon nila ini, kag magalalapta ang mga patay bisan diin.
Pamalahon ko ang Suba sang Suba sang Nilo, kag itugyan ko ang Egypt sa malain nga mga tawo. Ipalaglag ko ang bilog nga nasyon sang Egypt sang Egypt kag ang tanan nga ara dira paagi sa taga-iban nga lugar. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Laglagon ko man ang mga imahen sang mga dios-dios sa Memfis.
Himuon ko nga mamingaw ang Patros, sunugon ko ang Zoan, kag silutan ko ang Tebes.
Ipaagom ko ang akon kaakig sa Pelusium,
Sunugon ko ang Egypt! Magaugayong sa kasakit ang Pelusium. Malaglag ang Tebes, kag permi lang mahadlok ang Memfis.
Magakalamatay sa inaway ang pamatan-on nga mga lalaki sang Heliopolis
Kon laglagon ko na ang gahom sang Egypt, mangin madulom ina nga adlaw para sa Tapanhes. Madula na ang ginapabugal nga gahom sang Egypt. Pagatabunan siya sang gal-om, kag ang mga pumuluyo sang iya mga banwa pagabihagon.
Amo sina ang akon pagsilot sa Egypt, kag mahibaluan dayon sang iya mga pumuluyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Karon, sang ikapito nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, sang ikaonse nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag sang amon pagkabihag , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, ginbali ko ang butkon sang Faraon nga hari sang Egypt. Kag wala gid sing may nagbulong sini para mag-ayo kag magbakod liwat sa pag-uyat sang espada.
Gani silinga siya nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kontra ko siya. Balion ko ang duha niya ka butkon, ang maayo kag ang bali na nga daan, para mabuy-an niya ang iya iya espada.
Palaptahon ko ang mga Egyptohanon sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon.
Pabakuron ko ang mga butkon sang hari sang Babilonia kag pauyatan ko sa iya ang akon espada. Pero balion ko ang mga butkon sang hari sang Egypt,
Pabakuron ko gid ang mga butkon sang hari sang Babilonia, pero ang mga butkon iya sang hari sang Egypt mangin inutil. Kon pauyatan ko na ang akon espada sa hari sang Babilonia kag iya ini gamiton kontra sa Egypt, mahibaluan dayon sang mga Egyptohanon nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Palaptahon ko ang mga Egyptohanon sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Sang nahauna nga adlaw sang ikatatlo nga bulan, sang ikaonse nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag sang amon pagkabihag , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Sa kay sin-o ko bala ipaanggid ang imo pagkagamhanan?
Ah, ipaanggid ko gali ikaw sa Assyria, ang nasyon nga pareho sa kahoy nga sedro sa Lebanon. Ini nga kahoy may matahom nga mga sanga nga nagahandong sa kakahuyan kag nagalabaw sa iban nga madabong nga mga kahoy.
May bugana nga tubig halin sa madalom nga tuburan nga nagabulig patubo sini. (Nagailig man ini nga tubig sa tanan nga kahoy sa kagulangan.)
Ini nga kahoy nagalabaw sa tanan nga kahoy sa kakahuyan. Ang iya mga sanga nagdabong kag naglaba pa gid tungod sa bugana nga tubig.
Ang tanan nga klase sang mga pispis nagpugad sa iya mga sanga, kag ang tanan nga klase sang talunon nga mga sapat nagbata sa idalom sang iya mga sanga. Ang tanan nga bantog nga mga nasyon nagpahandong sa iya.
Matahom gid ini nga kahoy kag malaba ang mga sanga, kay ang iya mga gamot nagalambot sa madalom kag bugana nga tubig.
Bisan gani ang mga kahoy nga sedro sa katamnan sang Dios indi makatupong sa katahom sang katahom sang sini nga kahoy. Bisan ang mga kahoy nga sipres kag mga kahoy nga platano indi mapaanggid sa katahom sang katahom sang iya mga sanga. Wala gid sing kahoy sa katamnan sang Dios nga makatupong sa katahom sang sini nga kahoy.
Ginpatahom ko ini nga kahoy nga may madabong nga mga sanga. Gani nahisa sa iya ang tanan nga kahoy sa katamnan sang Dios.”
Gani karon, nagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Tungod kay ginpataas sang sini nga kahoy ang iya kaugalingon kag ginpalabaw sa iban nga madabong nga mga kahoy, kag tungod kay nagpabugal siya,
itugyan ko siya sa pinakagamhanan nga nasyon nga amo ang magsilot sa iya sing nagakabagay sa iya kalautan. Huo, Huo, sikwayon ko siya;
tapson siya sang taga-iban nga lugar nga pinakamapintas sa tanan nga nasyon, kag dayon pabay-an. Magalalapta ang iya nagkalabali nga mga sanga sa mga bukid, mga patag, kag sa mga ililigan sang tubig. Magahalin sa iya atong mga nasyon nga nagapahandong sa iya.
Magahapon ang tanan nga klase sang mga pispis sa puno sini nga natumba, kag magaluko ang talunon nga mga sapat sa mga sanga sini.
Gani dapat wala na sing kahoy nga magtaas pa kag maglabaw sa iban nga madabong nga mga kahoy, bisan bugana pa ini sa tubig. Kay mapatay ang tanan nga kahoy pareho sang tawo, kag magapadulong sa kadadalman sang duta.”
Nagpadayon pa gid sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Sa adlaw nga dal-on na ini nga kahoy sa lugar sang mga patay, tabunan ko ang madalom nga mga tuburan bilang tanda sang pagpangasubo. Indi na mag-ilig ang tubig sa mga suba, kag wala na sing bugana nga tubig. Tungod sini, magadulom ang Lebanon kag magakalalaya ang tanan nga kahoy sa latagon.
Magakurog sa kahadlok ang mga nasyon kon mabatian nila ang pagkalaglag sang sadto nga kahoy, sa tion nga dal-on ko ini sa lugar sang mga patay upod sadtong mga nagkalamatay. Dayon ang tanan nga kahoy sang Eden kag ang tanan nga maayo kag matahom nga kahoy sang Lebanon nga napatubigan sing maayo malipay didto sa idalom sang duta.
Ang mga nasyon nga nagapasilong kag nagadampig sa iya magaupod man sa iya sa lugar sang mga patay upod didto sa mga nagkalamatay sa inaway.
“Amo sini ang matabo sa hari sang Egypt
Sang nahauna nga adlaw sang ikadose nga bulan, sang ikadose nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag sang amon pagkabihag , nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, magpanalambiton ka parte sa Faraon nga hari sang Egypt. Isiling ini sa iya: Nagahunahuna ka nga pareho ka sang leon nga nagapakadto-pakari nga nagapakadto-pakari sa mga nasyon. Pero ang matuod, pareho ka lang sang buaya nga nagalangoy-langoy sa imo mga suba. Ginalabugay mo sang imo tiil ang tubig kag nagalubog ini.
Karon, amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : Pukuton ko ikaw kag ipaguyod patakas paagi sa madamo nga tawo.
Ipilak ko ikaw sa duta kag ipakaon sa mga pispis kag sa talunon nga mga sapat.
Laptahon ko ang imo mga unod sa mga bukid kag sa mga patag.
Bas-on ko sang imo nagailig nga dugo ang duta hasta ang mga bukid, kag paagayon ko ini sa mga ililigan sang tubig.
Kon dulaon ko na ikaw, lipdan ko sang mga panganod ang langit, gani indi na magsanag ang mga bituon, pati ang adlaw kag ang bulan.
Padulmon ko ang tanan nga nagasiga sa langit. Gani magadulom gid sa bilog mo nga nasyon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“Matublag ang mga katawhan sang mga nasyon nga indi mo kilala kon laglagon ko na ikaw.
Madamo nga nasyon ang akon pahadlukon sa matabo sa imo, pati ang ila mga hari magakurog sa kahadlok. Magakurog gid ang kada isa sa ila sa kahadlok kon ibalabad ko ang akon espada sa ila sa tion sang imo pagkalaglag.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga salakayon ka sang espada sang hari sang Babilonia.
Ipapatay ko ang imo madamo nga katawhan paagi sa espada sang gamhanan nga mga tawo nga pinakamapintas sa tanan nga nasyon. Laglagon gid nila ang tanan nga katawhan sang Egypt pati ang mga butang nga ginapabugal sang sini nga nasyon.
Pamatyon ko ang tanan nga kasapatan sang Egypt sa higad sang bugana nga tubig.
Dayon patin-awon ko ang tubig sang Egypt, kag magailig ini pareho sang pag-ilig sang lana. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Kon himuon ko na nga mamingaw ang Egypt, kag laglagon ang tanan nga ara dira pati ang iya mga pumuluyo, mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Amo ato ang panalambiton sang mga pumuluyo sang mga nasyon para sa Egypt kag sa tanan niya nga mga pumuluyo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Karon, sang ika-15 nga adlaw sang amo gihapon nga bulan kag tuig, nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon,
“Anak sang tawo, magpangasubo ka para sa mga pumuluyo sang Egypt kag sa mga pumuluyo sang iban pa nga gamhanan nga mga nasyon. Kay itagbong ko sila sa idalom sang duta kag makaupod nila didto ang mga nagkalamatay na.
Silinga sila, ‘Mas labaw pa bala kamo sang sa iban? Itagbong man kamo sa kadadalman kag makaupod ninyo didto ang mga wala nagtuo sa Dios
nga nagkalamatay sa inaway.’ Malaglag ang mga Egyptohanon kay handa na ang espada sang mga kaaway sa pagpatay sa ila. Guyuron ang Egypt kag ang iya katawhan pakadto sa kalaglagan pakadto sa kalaglagan .
Didto sa lugar sang mga patay, abiabihon sang gamhanan nga mga pangulo ang Egypt kag ang iya kadampig nga mga nasyon. Magasiling sila, ‘Nagpanaog man sila diri! Kaupod na nila subong ang mga wala nagtuo sa Dios nga nagkalamatay sa inaway.’
“Didto man ang hari sang hari sang Elam. Napalibutan ang iya lulubngan sang lulubngan sang iya katawhan. Nagkalamatay sila tanan sa inaway. Nagpanaog sila didto sa lugar sang mga patay upod sa iban nga mga wala nagtuo sa Dios. Sang buhi pa sila ginpahadlok nila ang mga tawo sa ila, pero subong ginpakahuy-an sila upod sa iban nga mga nagkalamatay.
May ginahamyangan didto ang hari sang hari sang Elam upod sa mga nagkalamatay sa inaway. Napalibutan ang iya lulubngan sang lulubngan sang iya katawhan. Sila tanan nga wala nagtuo sa Dios nagkalamatay sa inaway. Kay sang buhi pa sila ginpahadlok nila ang mga tawo sa ila, pero subong ginpakahuy-an sila kag nagahamyang upod sa mga nagkalamatay sa inaway.
“Didto man ang hari sang hari sang Meshec kag ang hari sang hari sang Tubal. Napalibutan ang ila lulubngan sang lulubngan sang ila katawhan. Sila tanan nga wala nagtuo sa Dios nagkalamatay sa inaway. Kay sang buhi pa sila ginpahadlok nila ang mga tawo sa ila.
Wala sila ginhatagan sang dungganon nga lubong pareho sang iban nga mga bantog nga tawo nga wala nagatuo sa Dios, nga sang paglubong sa ila ang ila mga espada ara sa ila uluhan kag ang ila mga taming ara sa ila dughan.
“Kag ikaw nga hari sang Egypt, nga hari sang Egypt, malaglag man kag magahamyang upod sa mga wala nagtuo sa Dios nga nagkalamatay sa inaway.
“Ara man didto sa lugar sang mga patay sa lugar sang mga patay ang mga hari sang Edom kag ang tanan nga opisyal sini. Gamhanan sila sadto, pero subong nagahamyang sila sa lugar sang mga patay upod sa mga wala nagtuo sa Dios nga nagkalamatay sa inaway.
“Didto man ang tanan nga opisyal sang mga lugar sa north kag ang mga taga-Sidon. Kay sang buhi pa sila ginpahadlok man nila ang mga tawo sa ila. Gamhanan man sila sadto, pero subong ginpakahuy-an sila kag nagahamyang sa lugar sang mga patay upod sa mga wala nagtuo sa Dios nga nagkalamatay sa inaway.
Kon makita sang hari sang Egypt
Bisan ginbuot ko nga kahadlukan sila sang mga tawo sang buhi pa sila, mapatay sila kag mapatay sila kag magahamyang upod sa mga wala nagtuo sa akon nga nagkalamatay sa inaway. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, ihambal ini sa imo mga kasimanwa: Kon ipasalakay ko sa mga kaaway sa mga kaaway ang isa ka lugar, ang mga pumuluyo sang sina nga lugar nagapili sang isa sa ila kasimanwa nga mangin manugbantay sang ila siyudad.
Kon makita sang sina nga manugbantay nga nagapadulong na ang mga kaaway, patunugon niya ang budyong sa pagpaandam sa mga tawo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nakabati sang budyong pero wala magsapak sini, kag napatay siya sang ginsalakay sila, siya ang may salabton sa iya kamatayon.
Kay sang mabatian niya ang budyong wala siya magsapak. Gani siya gid ang may salabton sa iya kamatayon. Kay kon nagsapak lang siya, kuntani naluwas niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Pero kon nakita sang manugbantay nga nagapadulong na ang mga kaaway pero wala niya pagpatunuga ang budyong sa pagpaandam sa mga tawo, kag ginsalakay sila kag may napatay sa ila, sukton ko ang manugbantay sa ila kamatayon bisan napatay sila tungod sa ila man nga man nga sala.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Anak sang tawo, ginpili ko ikaw nga manugbantay sang katawhan sang Israel. Gani kon ano man nga paandam ang mabatian mo sa akon isiling mo sa ila.
Kon magsiling ako sa malain nga tawo nga mapatay gid siya tungod sa iya sala pero wala mo siya ginpaandaman nga magbiya sa iya malain nga pagginawi, mapatay ang amo nga tawo tungod sa iya sala, kag sukton ko ikaw sa iya kamatayon.
Pero kon ginpaandaman mo ang ato nga malain nga tawo sa pagbiya sa iya malain nga pagginawi, pero wala siya magsapak sa imo ginsiling, mapatay siya tungod sa iya sala, pero wala ka sing salabton sa iya kamatayon.
“Anak sang tawo, nagareklamo ang katawhan sang Israel nga indi nila maagwanta ang silot sa ila mga sala. Nagpalangluya na sila kag daw sa mapatay na kuno sila tungod sini.
Karon, silinga sila nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga wala ako nagakalipay kon may mapatay nga malain nga tawo. Ang gusto ko, magbiya siya sa iya malain nga pagginawi para mabuhi siya. Gani kamo nga katawhan sang Israel, magbiya na kamo sa inyo malain nga pagginawi. Ngaa bala luyag ninyo nga mapatay?
“Anak sang tawo, silinga ang imo mga kasimanwa nga kon ang matarong nga tawo magpakasala, ang maayo niya nga mga binuhatan indi makaluwas sa iya. Kag kon ang malain nga tawo magbiya sa iya malain nga mga binuhatan, indi siya pagsilutan sa iya mga ginhimo nga malain.
Kon magsiling ako sa matarong nga tawo nga sigurado nga mabuhi siya, pero sa ulihi magpakasala siya kay nagasalig siya nga ang iya maayo nga mga binuhatan sang una makaluwas sa iya, ina nga tawo mapatay tungod sang iya mga sala. Indi ko pagdumdumon ang iya maayo nga mga binuhatan.
Kag kon magsiling ako sa malain nga tawo nga sigurado nga mapatay siya, pero sa ulihi magbiya siya sa iya malain nga binuhatan kag maghimo sang husto kag matarong—
halimbawa, gin-uli niya ang gin-garantiya sa iya ukon ang iya ginkawat, ginsunod niya ang mga pagsulundan nga nagahatag sang kabuhi, kag wala siya nagahimo sang malain—sigurado nga mabuhi siya; indi siya mapatay.
Ang bisan ano nga sala nga iya ginhimo indi na pagdumdumon kontra sa iya. Tungod nga naghimo siya sang husto kag matarong, sigurado nga mabuhi siya.
“Pero ang imo mga kasimanwa, Ezekiel, Ezekiel, nagareklamo nga indi kuno husto ang akon pamaagi. Pero ang ila pamaagi amo ang indi husto.
Kag kon ang malain nga tawo magbiya sa iya kalainan kag maghimo sing husto kag matarong, magakabuhi siya.
Katawhan sang Israel, nagasiling kamo nga ang akon pamaagi indi husto. Hukman ko gani ang kada isa sa inyo suno sa inyo mga binuhatan.”
Sang ikalima nga adlaw sang ikanapulo nga bulan, sang ikadose nga tuig sang amon pagkabihag, may isa ka tawo nga nakapalagyo halin sa Jerusalem nga nagkadto sa akon kag nagsiling, “Nalaglag na ang siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem !”
Sang gab-i nga wala pa mag-abot ato nga tawo, gin-gamhan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nakahambal ako liwat. Gani pag-abot sadto nga tawo pagkaaga, makahambal na ako.
“Anak sang tawo, ang mga tawo nga nagaestar didto sa guba nga mga banwa sang Israel nagasiling, ‘Isa lang si Abraham, kag ginhatag sa iya ang bilog nga duta. Madamo kita, gani sigurado nga panag-iyahan ta ini nga duta.’
Silinga sila nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling, ‘Nagahunahuna bala kamo nga panag-iyahan ninyo ang amo nga duta bisan nagakaon kamo sang karne nga may dugo pa, kag nagasimba sa inyo mga dios-dios, kag nagapamatay sang tawo?
Nagasalig kamo sa inyo espada,
Ako, ang buhi nga Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasumpa nga sigurado nga magakalamatay sa inaway atong nagkalabilin nga buhi sa naguba nga mga banwa. Ang mga nagkalabilin nga buhi sa mga uma pagakaunon sang mapintas nga mga sapat, kag ang iban sa ila nga ara sa mga palanaguan kag sa mga kuweba magakalamatay sa balatian.
Himuon ko nga mamingaw ang duta sang Israel sang Israel , kag dulaon ko ang pagpabugal niya sa iya ikasarang. Bisan ang iya mga bukid mangin mamingaw, kag wala na gid sing may mag-agi didto.
Kon himuon ko na nga mamingaw ang duta tungod sa tanan nga makangilil-ad nga mga ginahimo sang mga pumuluyo sini, mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, ang imo mga kasimanwa nagaestorya parte sa imo kon magtipon sila sa pader sang siyudad ukon sa puwertahan sang ila balay. Nagasiling sila sa isa kag isa, ‘Dali, pamatian ta abi si Ezekiel si Ezekiel kon ano ang iya iya ihambal halin sa Ginoo Ginoo !’
Gani nagapalapit ang akon mga katawhan sa imo kag daw sinsero gid sila nga nagapamati sa imo, pero ang matuod wala nila ginatuman ang imo ginahambal. Maayo lang sila maghambal nga ginahigugma nila ako, pero ang sa sulod sang ila tagipusuon amo ang pagpanguwarta.
Para sa ila, daw pareho ka lang sa isa ka manugkanta nga manami sang tingog, nga nagakanta sang ambahanon parte sa paghigugma, kag maayo magtukar sang instrumento. Nagapamati lang sila sa imo mensahi, pero wala nila ini ginatuman.
Pero kon matabo na ining silot sa ila—kag sigurado gid ini nga matabo—mahibaluan nila nga may propeta gid man gali sa ila.”
“Anak sang tawo, maghambal ka kontra sa mga manugbantay sang Israel.
Ginainom ninyo ang ila gatas, ginahimo nga bayo ang ila bulbol, kag ginaihaw ang pinakamaayo sa ila, pero wala ninyo sila ginatatap.
Wala ninyo pagpabaskuga ang mga maluya sa ila. Wala ninyo pagbulunga ang mga nagamasakit ukon pagbugkusi ang mga may pilas. Wala ninyo pagpangitaa ang mga nagtalang ukon ang mga nadula. Sa baylo, ginpintasan ninyo sila sing puwerte gid.
Tungod kay wala sila sing manugbantay, naglalapta sila kag ginpanukob sang mapintas nga mga sapat.
Nagtalalang ang akon mga karnero sa mga bukid. Naglalapta sila sa bilog nga kalibutan, kag wala gid sing may nagpangita sa ila.
“Gani kamo nga mga manugbantay, pamatii ninyo ang akon ginasiling.
Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga silutan ko kamo silutan ko kamo tungod kay wala ninyo pagbantayi ang akon mga karnero, gani ginsalakay sila kag ginpanukob sang mapintas nga mga sapat. Wala ninyo sila pagpangitaa kundi ang inyo lang kaugalingon ang inyo ginatatap.
Gani kamo nga mga manugbantay, pamatii ninyo ang akon ginasiling.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga kontra ko kamo, kag may salabton kamo sa akon sa natabo sa akon mga karnero. Indi ko na pag-ipatatap sa inyo ang akon akon mga karnero, kay ang inyo lang kaugalingon ang inyo ginatatap. Luwason ko ang akon mga karnero sa inyo, kag indi na ninyo sila pagkaunon.
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga ako mismo ang magapangita sang akon mga karnero kag magatatap sa ila.
Mangin pareho ako sa manugbantay nga nagapangita sang iya mga karnero nga naglalapta. Pagaluwason ko sila sa tanan nga lugar nga sa diin sila naglalapta sadtong tion sang kagamo.
Pagakuhaon ko sila sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, kag pagadal-on sa ila kaugalingon nga duta. Pahalbon ko sila sa mga bukid sang Israel, sa higad sang mga suba, kag sa mga duta nga ginaestaran sang mga tawo.
Pahalbon ko sila sa maayo nga palahalban sa mga bukid sang Israel. Didto magaluko sila kag magahalab.
Ako mismo, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang magatatap sa akon mga karnero, kag papahuwayon ko sila.
Pangitaon ko atong mga nagkaladula kag nagtalang. Bugkusan ko ang mga may pilas kag pabaskugon ang mga maluya. Pero pagalaglagon ko ang mga matambok kag mabaskog. Himuon ko sa ila kon ano ang matarong.
“ Mga katawhan sang Israel nga Mga katawhan sang Israel nga akon mga karnero, ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa inyo sa inyo nga pagahukman ko kamo. Painon ko ang maayo sa malain, ang mga karnero sa mga kanding.
Ang iban sa inyo indi ayawan sa paghalab sang maayo nga palahalban; ginatasak pa ninyo ang iban nga mga palahalban. Indi kamo ayawan sa pag-inom sang matin-aw nga tubig; ginalubog pa ninyo ang iban nga tubig.
Magahalab lang bala ang iban ko nga mga karnero sang gintasak ninyo nga palahalban? Magainom lang bala sila sang ginlubog ninyo nga tubig?
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa inyo nga ako mismo ang magaseparar sang matambok nga mga karnero sa maniwang nga mga karnero.
Kay kamo nga mga matambok, ginadis-og kag ginasungay lang ninyo ang mga maluya hasta nga magpalayo sila.
Pagaluwason ko ang akon mga karnero, kag indi na sila pag-abusuhan pa liwat. Painon ko ang mga maayo sa mga malain.
Hatagan ko sila sang isa ka manugbantay nga kaliwat sang akon alagad nga si David. Siya ang magatatap kag magabantay sa ila.
Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , mangin ila Dios, kag ang kaliwat sang akon alagad nga si David mangin ila pangulo. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Magahimo ako sang kasugtanan sa ila nga mangin maayo na ang ila kahimtangan. Pagatabugon ko ang mapintas nga mga sapat sa ila duta para makaestar sila sa kamingawan kag makatulog sa kagulangan nga luwas sa katalagman.
Pakamaayuhon ko sila kag ang mga lugar sa palibot sang akon balaan nga balaan nga bukid. Padal-an ko sila sang ulan sa nagakaigo nga panahon bilang pagpakamaayo ko sa ila.
Magapamunga ang ila mga kahoy kag mga tanom, kag magakabuhi sila nga luwas sa katalagman. Mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo kon hilwayon ko sila sa kamot sang mga nag-ulipon sa ila.
Indi na sila pag-abusuhan sang iban nga mga nasyon kag indi na sila pagkaunon sang talunon nga mga sapat. Magakabuhi sila nga luwas sa katalagman kag wala sing may magapahadlok sa ila.
Hatagan ko sila sang duta nga mapatubason para indi na sila mag-antos sing gutom ukon pagyagutaon sang iban nga mga nasyon.
Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, nagaupod sa ila, kag sila nga katawhan sang Israel, akon katawhan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“Kamo ang akon mga karnero sa akon palahalban. Kamo ang akon katawhan, kag ako ang inyo Dios. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, mag-atubang ka sa Bukid sang Seir,
Silinga sila nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kontra ko kamo, mga taga-Bukid sang Seir. Silutan ko kamo kag mangin mamingaw ang inyo lugar.
Maguba ang inyo mga banwa kag mangin mamingaw ini. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Dugay na ang inyo dumot sa mga taga-Israel, kag ginpabay-an lang ninyo sila nga salakayon sang tion sang ila kalisod, ang tion nga ginsilutan na sila tungod sa ila mga sala tungod sa ila mga sala .
Gani, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga ipapatay ko gid kamo bisan diin man kamo magkadto. Huo, Huo, lagson gid kamo sang mga manugpatay, kay wala kamo nalainan sang pagpamatay.
Himuon ko nga mamingaw ang Bukid sang Seir, kag pamatyon ko ang tanan nga nagapakadto-pakari didto.
Ang mga magakalamatay sa inyo sa inaway magalalapta sa inyo mga bukid, mga patag, kag mga ililigan sang tubig.
Himuon ko ang inyo lugar nga mamingaw hasta san-o. Wala na sing may mag-estar sa inyo mga banwa. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
“Nagasiling kamo nga ang Juda kag Israel mangin inyo, kag panag-iyahan ninyo ini bisan ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , kaupod nila.
Gani ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios nga buhi, nagasumpa nga balusan ko kamo sa inyo kaakig, kahisa, kag kaugot nga ginpakita ninyo sa akon katawhan. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo samtang ginasilutan ko kamo.
Sa sina nga paagi, mahibaluan man ninyo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nakabati sang tanan ninyo nga pagpakamalaot sa mga bukid sang Israel. Kay nagsiling kamo, ‘Nalaglag ini kag gintugutan kita nga agawon ini.’
Nagpahambog man kamo kag bisan ano na lang ang inyo ginahambal kontra sa akon, kag nabatian ko man ini.
“Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga magakalipay ang bilog nga kalibutan kon himuon ko na nga mamingaw ang inyo lugar,
tungod kay nalipay kamo sang nangin mamingaw ang duta nga ginpanubli sang katawhan sang Israel. Gani amo man sina ang matabo sa inyo; mangin mamingaw ang Bukid sang Seir kag ang bilog nga Edom. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Anak sang tawo, maghambal ka sa mga bukid sang Israel. Silinga sila, ‘O mga bukid sang Israel, pamatii ninyo ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : Nagsiling ang inyo mga kaaway nga ila na ang inyo madugay na nga mga bukid.’
“Gani, tawo, tawo, silinga ang mga bukid sang Israel ang mga bukid sang Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Ginsalakay kamo sang mga nasyon sa bisan diin nga direksyon, kag karon ginapanag-iyahan nila kamo. Ginayaguta kag ginapakahuy-an pa nila kamo.
Pero kamo, mga bukid sang Israel, may mga kahoy nga magtubo sa inyo, kag magapamunga ini para sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon, kay madali na lang sila nga magpuli.
Pamati! Tatapon ko kamo. Araduhon ko ang inyo duta kag tamnan.
Padamuon ko ang inyo mga pumuluyo—ang bilog nga katawhan sang Israel. Patindugon liwat ang inyo mga banwa nga nagkalaguba, kag pagapuy-an ini sang akon katawhan sang akon katawhan .
Padamuon ko ang inyo mga tawo kag ang inyo mga sapat. Paestaron ko liwat ang mga tawo sa inyo pareho sang una, kag pauswagon ko kamo sobra pa sang sa una. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ibalik ko ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon sa inyo. Panag-iyahan nila kamo, kag indi na gid ninyo liwat pagdulaon ang ila mga kabataan.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Nagasiling ang mga tawo sa inyo nga ginahalitan
Pero sugod subong, indi na ninyo paghalitan ang inyo mga pumuluyo. Kag indi na ninyo pagdulaon ang mga kabataan sa inyo nasyon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Indi ko na pagtugutan nga yagutaon kamo ukon pakahuy-an sang iban nga mga nasyon. Kag indi ko na pagtugutan nga malaglag ang inyo nasyon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon:
“Anak sang tawo, sang nagaestar pa ang mga Israelinhon sa ila duta, ginhigkuan nila ini paagi sa ila malain nga malain nga pagginawi kag binuhatan. Sa akon panulok, ang ila pagginawi pareho kahigko sang babayi nga ara ang iya pamulanon.
Gani ginpaagom ko sa ila ang akon kaakig tungod sang ila pagpamatay sa duta sang Israel sang Israel , kag tungod sang ila pagsimba sa mga dios-dios nga nakapahigko sang sini nga duta.
Ginpalapta ko sila sa iban nga mga nasyon. Ginhimo ko sa ila ang nagakabagay sa ila pagginawi kag binuhatan.
Bisan diin sila magkadto nga mga nasyon, nagakahuy-an ang akon balaan nga ngalan. Kay nagasiling ang mga tawo, ‘Mga katawhan sila sang Ginoo Ginoo , pero ginpahalin niya sila sa iya duta.’
Nagakabalaka gid ako sa akon balaan nga ngalan nga ginahatagan sang kahuy-anan sang katawhan sang Israel bisan diin sila magkadto nga mga nasyon.
Gani silinga ang katawhan sang Israel nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: O katawhan sang Israel, ginapabalik ko kamo sa inyo duta indi tungod nga takos kamo nga magbalik didto. Ginahimo ko ini tungod sa akon balaan nga ngalan, nga inyo ginahatagan sang kahuy-anan bisan diin kamo magkadto nga mga nasyon.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga ipakita ko ang pagkabalaan sang akon dungganon nga ngalan nga ginhatagan ninyo sang kahuy-anan sa mga nasyon. Dayon mahibaluan sang sina nga mga nasyon nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo kon ipakita ko ang akon pagkabalaan sa ila paagi sa himuon ko sa inyo.
Kay kuhaon ko kamo sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon kag pabalikon sa inyo kaugalingon nga duta.
Wisikan ko kamo sang limpyo nga tubig para mangin limpyo kamo sa tanan nga kahigkuan, kag indi na kamo magsimba sa mga dios-dios.
Hatagan ko kamo sang bag-o nga tagipusuon kag bag-o nga espiritu. Ang matig-a ninyo nga tagipusuon mangin matinumanon na nga tagipusuon.
Hatagan ko man kamo sang akon Espiritu para masunod ninyo sing maayo ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan.
Magaestar kamo sa duta nga ginhatag ko sa inyo mga katigulangan. Mangin katawhan ko kamo kag mangin Dios ninyo ako.
Limpyuhan ko kamo sa tanan ninyo nga kahigkuan. Hatagan ko kamo sang bugana nga uyas, kag indi na kamo magaantos sing gutom.
Pabungahon ko sing madamo ang mga kahoy kag pabuganaon ko ang inyo mga patubas, para indi na kamo pagpakahuy-an sang iban nga mga nasyon tungod sa gutom.
Dayon madumduman ninyo ang inyo malain nga pagginawi kag pamatasan, kag kangil-aran ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon tungod sa inyo mga sala kag makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan.
Pero gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo, O katawhan sang Israel, nga ginahimo ko ini indi tungod sa inyo. Dapat gid kamo nga mahuya sa inyo nga pagginawi. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Sa tion nga matinluan ko na kamo sa tanan ninyo nga mga sala, paestaron ko kamo liwat sa inyo mga banwa, kag patindugon ninyo ninyo ang mga nagkalaguba nga mga lugar.
Ang duta nga sadto anay mamingaw, pagaaraduhon na, kag ang tanan nga makakita sini
magasiling, ‘Ang duta nga sadto anay wala sing pulos, karon nangin pareho na sa katamnan sang Eden. Ang mga banwa nga sadto anay nagkalaguba kag mamingaw, karon may mga pader na kag ginaestaran na!’
Dayon ang mga nasyon sa inyo palibot nga nagkalabilin makahibalo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang nagpatindog sang mga nagkalaguba kag nagpatanom sa nangin mamingaw nga duta. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini, kag himuon ko gid ini.”
Karon, gin-gamhan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo kag gindala ako sang iya Espiritu sa tunga sang patag nga puno sang tul-an.
Ginlibot ako sang Ginoo Ginoo didto, kag nakita ko ang puwerte kadamo nga mga tul-an nga nagalapta didto sa patag. Mamala gid ang mga tul-an.
Nagpamangkot ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, mabuhi pa bala ini nga mga tul-an?” Nagsabat ako, “O Ginoong Dios Dios , ikaw gid lang ang nakahibalo sina.”
Nagsiling siya liwat sa akon, “Silinga inang mamala nga mga tul-an nga magpamati sila sa akon ginasiling.
Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling sa ila: Paginhawaon ko kamo, kag mabuhi kamo.
Hatagan ko kamo sang mga ugat kag mga unod, kag putson ko kamo sang panit. Paginhawaon ko kamo, kag mabuhi kamo. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Gani gintuman ko ang ginmando sa akon. Kag samtang nagahambal ako, nabatian ko ang linagatok, kag ang mga tul-an nag-alalangot.
Nakita ko dayon nga may mga ugat kag mga unod na ini kag naputos sang panit, pero wala pa sila nagaginhawa.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, silinga ang hangin nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: O hangin, maghuyop kamo halin sa apat ka direksyon sa paghatag sang ginhawa sa sinang patay nga mga lawas para mabuhi sila.”
Kag amo ato ang akon ginsiling, suno sa iya ginmando sa akon. Nakabaton sang ginhawa ang patay nga mga lawas kag nabuhi sila. Nagtindog sila, kag puwerte sa ila kadamo, daw isa ka batalyon nga mga soldado.
Nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, ina nga mga tul-an nagarepresentar sang bilog nga katawhan sang Israel. Nagasiling sila, ‘Mala na ang amon mga tul-an, kag wala na kami sing paglaom; ginlaglag na kami.’
Gani silinga sila nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: O katawhan ko, buksan ko ang inyo mga lulubngan kag banhawon ko kamo, kag ibalik sa duta sang Israel.
Dayon mahibaluan ninyo, O katawhan ko, nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , kon buksan ko na ang inyo mga lulubngan kag banhawon ko kamo.
Ihatag ko ang akon Espiritu sa inyo kag mabuhi kamo, kag paestaron ko kamo sa inyo kaugalingon nga duta. Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo . Kon ano ang akon ginahambal, ginatuman ko. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
“Anak sang tawo, magkuha ka sang lipak kag sulati ini sang, ‘Ang ginharian sang Juda.’ Dayon magkuha ka sang isa pa ka lipak kag sulati sang, ‘Ang ginharian sang Israel.’
Sugpuna ining duha ka lipak para mangin isa na lang ini sa imo kamot.
Kon pamangkuton ka gani sang imo mga kasimanwa kon ano ang buot silingon sina,
sabta sila, ‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : Sugpunon ko ang lipak nga nagarepresentar sang Israel kag ang lipak nga nagarepresentar sang Juda, kag mangin isa na lang ini sa akon kamot.’
“Samtang ginauyatan mo ang lipak nga imo ginsulatan, ipakita ini sa mga tawo,
kag silinga sila, ‘Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : Kuhaon ko ang mga Israelinhon sa tanan nga nasyon nga sa diin sila naglalapta, kag dal-on ko sila pabalik sa ila kaugalingon nga duta.
Isahon ko na lang sila ka nasyon sa duta sang Israel. Isa lang ka hari ang magahari sa ila, kag indi na sila matunga pa liwat sa duha ka nasyon ukon ginharian.
Indi na nila paghigkuan ang ila kaugalingon paagi sa pagsimba sa ila makangilil-ad nga mga dios-dios, ukon sa paghimo sang bisan ano nga sala. Kay luwason ko sila sa tanan nila nga pagpakasala, kag tinluan ko sila. Mangin katawhan ko sila, kag mangin Dios nila ako.
Magahari sa ila ang hari nga kaliwat sang hari nga kaliwat sang akon alagad nga si David. May isa lang sila tanan ka manugbantay. Pagasundon nila sing maayo ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan.
Magaestar sila sa duta nga akon ginhatag sa akon alagad nga si Jacob, ang duta nga sa diin nag-estar ang ila mga katigulangan. Didto sila kag ang ila mga kaliwat magaestar hasta san-o, kag magahari sa ila ang hari nga kaliwat sang hari nga kaliwat sang akon alagad nga si David sa wala sing katapusan.
Magahimo ako sang kasugtanan sa ila nga mangin maayo ang ila kahimtangan, kag ini nga kasugtanan magapadayon hasta san-o. Paestaron ko sila sa ila duta
Magapuyo ako upod sa ila. Mangin Dios nila ako, kag mangin katawhan ko sila.
Kag kon magpabilin na ang akon templo sa ila hasta san-o, mahibaluan sang mga nasyon nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang nagpili sa mga Israelinhon nga mangin akon.’ ”
“Anak sang tawo, maghambal ka kontra kay Gog nga taga-Magog, nga pangulo sang Meshec kag sang Tubal.
Silinga siya nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Gog, pangulo sang Meshec kag sang Tubal, kontra ko ikaw.
Palisuon ko ikaw kag kaw-itan sang mga taga ang imo sag-ang, kag guyuron upod sang bilog mo nga puwersa—ang imo mga kabayo, mga manugkabayo nga armado, kag ang imo madamo nga soldado nga may dalagko kag magagmay nga mga taming kag puro armado sang espada.
Magaupod sa ila ang mga soldado sang Persia, Ethiopia,
pati man ang Gomer kag ang Bet Togarma sa north kag ang tanan nila nga mga soldado. Madamo nga nasyon ang magaupod sa imo.
“Sige na, magpreparar ka kag ang tanan mo nga soldado. Panguluhi sila sa pagpakig-away.
Kay sa palaabuton manduan ko kamo sa pagsalakay sa Israel. Sa sina nga tion napatindog na liwat ang Israel pagkatapos nga naguba ini sa inaway kag nangin mamingaw sing malawig. Kag sa sina man nga tion Kag sa sina man nga tion nakabalik na ang mga pumuluyo sini halin sa mga nasyon kag nagapuyo na sila nga malinong.
Ikaw kag ang imo mga soldado, kag ang imo kaupod nga mga nasyon, magasalakay sa Israel nga daw sa bagyo, kag likupan ninyo ini pareho sang paglikop sang panganod.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Sa sina nga tion magaplano ka sing malain.
Magasiling ka: Salakayon ko ang Israel nga ang mga banwa sini wala sing pader, puwertahan, kag trangka, kag ang mga pumuluyo sini nagapuyo nga malinong kag wala sing may ginakahadlukan nga katalagman.
Agawon ko ang mga pagkabutang sang sini nga mga banwa nga mamingaw sadto, nga karon puno na sang mga tawo nga nagbalik halin sa mga nasyon. Madamo ang ila mga kasapatan kag mga pagkabutang, kag ginakabig nila ang ila nasyon nga amo ang pinakaimportante nga nasyon sa kalibutan.
“Magasiling sa imo ang katawhan sang Sheba kag sang Dedan, kag ang mga negosyante sa mga banwa sang Tarshish, ‘Gintipon mo na bala ang imo madamo nga soldado para kuhaon ang mga pilak, bulawan, kasapatan, kag mga pagkabutang sang mga Israelinhon sang mga Israelinhon ?’
“Gani, anak sang tawo, silinga si Gog nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Sa tion nga magpuyo na nga malinong ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon, mahibaluan mo ini.
Dayon salakayon mo sila halin sa imo malayo nga lugar sa north, upod sang imo madamo kag gamhanan nga mga soldado nga nagasakay sa kabayo.
Salakayon mo ang akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon pareho sang panganod nga magalikop sa ila. Huo, Huo, Gog, ipasalakay ko sa imo ang akon duta sa palaabuton. Paagi sa ipahimo ko sa imo, mapakita ko ang akon pagkabalaan sa mga nasyon. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Sang una nga panahon, ginpahayag ko, paagi sa mga propeta sang Israel nga akon mga alagad, nga sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw may magasalakay sa Israel. Kag ikaw ang buot ko sadto silingon.
Pero sa sina nga tion nga salakayon mo, Gog, ang Israel, magaibwal ako sa kaakig. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Kag sa puwerte ko nga kaakig, ginasumpa ko nga sa sina nga tion magalinog sing mabaskog sa duta sang Israel.
Magakurog sa akon presensya ang tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan kag ang tanan nga klase sang sapat: ang nagalakat, ang nagalupad, ang nagakamang, kag ang nagalangoy. Magakalatiphag ang mga bukid kag ang mga banglid, kag magakalarumpag ang mga pader.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga ipapatay ko ikaw, Gog, didto sa akon mga bukid, kag ang imo mga soldado magapinatyanay.
Silutan ko ikaw kag ang imo mga soldado, kag ang imo kaupod nga mga nasyon. Silutan ko kamo sang balatian kag pagpinatyanay. Paulanan ko kamo sang mabaskog nga ulan, sang yelo nga daw mga bato, kag sang nagadabadaba nga asupre.
Sa sini nga paagi ipakita ko ang akon pagkagamhanan kag pagkabalaan sa tanan nga nasyon. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa akon, Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, maghambal ka kontra kay Gog. Silinga siya nga ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling, ‘Kontra ko ikaw, Gog, pangulo sang Meshec kag sang Tubal.
Palisuon ko ikaw kag guyuron halin sa malayo nga lugar sa north hasta nga makaabot ka sa mga bukid sang Israel.
Dayon kuhaan ko ikaw sang armas,
kag malaglag ka sa mga bukid sang Israel, pati ang tanan mo nga mga soldado kag ang kaupod mo nga mga nasyon. Ipakaon ko ang inyo mga bangkay sa nagkalain-lain nga klase sang mga pispis nga nagapangaon sang bangkay, kag sa mapintas nga mga sapat.
Malaglag gid kamo sa latagon kay ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Sunugon ko ang Magog kag ang mga nasyon nga malapit sa dagat, nga ang mga pumuluyo sini nagakabuhi nga wala sing ginakahadlukan nga katalagman. Dayon mahibaluan nila nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ipahibalo ko sa akon katawhan nga mga Israelinhon nga balaan ang akon ngalan, kag indi ko na pagtugutan nga mahuy-an pa ini. Dayon mahibaluan sang mga nasyon nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang balaan nga Dios nga Dios sang Israel.
Magaabot gid ang ina nga tion nga akon ginasiling. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“ ‘Kon mag-abot na ina nga tion, tipunon sang mga katawhan sang Israel nga nagaestar sa mga banwa ang inyo mga armas—ang dalagko kag gagmay nga mga taming, ang mga pana, mga inuglampos, kag mga bangkaw—kag ila ini nga gamiton nga gatong sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.
Indi na kinahanglan nga magpangahoy pa sila sa latagon ukon sa kagulangan, kay may mga armas na man sila nga inuggatong. Gani agawan man nila atong nag-agaw sa ila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
“ ‘Sa sina nga tion, ilubong ko si Gog kag ang iya madamo nga tinawo didto sa Israel, sa Pulopatag sang mga Nagapanglakaton, sa east sang Patay nga Patay nga Dagat. Mangin dako gid Mangin dako gid ini nga lulubngan, gani indi na makaagi ang mga nagapanglakaton didto. Kag pagatawgon na ini nga Pulopatag sang Madamo nga Tinawo ni Gog.
“ ‘Pito gid ka bulan ang paglubong sa ila sang mga Israelinhon para malimpyuhan ang duta.
Ang tanan nga pumuluyo magabulig sa paglubong. Kag ina nga tion indi gid malipatan sang mga Israelinhon, kay sa sina nga paagi napadunggan ako. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Pagkatapos sang pito ka bulan, may mga tawo nga pilion nga maghimo sang sini lang gid nga buluhaton: libuton nila ang ato nga lugar para tan-awon kon may bangkay pa nga nabilin, kag ila ini nga ipalubong, para malimpyuhan ang duta.
Kon may makita gani sila nga tul-an sang tawo, ila ini nga tandaan para mahibaluan sang mga manuglubong kag malubong nila sa “Pulopatag sang Madamo nga Tinawo ni Gog.”
(May banwa man nga malapit didto nga pagatawgon nga “Madamo nga Tawo.”
“Kon silutan ko na ang mga nasyon, makita nila kon ano ako ka gamhanan.
Kag halin sa sina nga tion, mahibaluan sang katawhan sang Israel nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Mahibaluan man sang iban nga mga nasyon nga ginbihag ang katawhan sang Israel tungod sang ila mga sala, kay wala sila nagtuman sa akon. Gintalikdan ko sila kag ginpabay-an nga salakayon sang mga kaaway kag pamatyon.
Ginhimo ko lang sa ila ang nagakabagay sa ila ginhimo nga mahigko kag malain. Gintalikdan ko gid sila.”
Nagpadayon pa gid sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Pero karon, kaluoyan ko ang katawhan sang Israel, ang mga kaliwat ni ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob, kag ibalik ko ang ila maayo nga kahimtangan,
Kon magaestar na sila sa ila duta nga malinong kag wala sing may ginakahadlukan, kalimtan na nila ang ila kahuy-anan kag ang ila pagluib sa akon.
Kuhaon ko sila sa mga duta sang ila mga kaaway, kag sa sini nga paagi makita sang madamo nga nasyon ang akon pagkabalaan.
Dayon mahibaluan sang akon katawhan nga ako amo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios. Kay bisan ginpabihag ko sila sa iban nga mga nasyon, ginbalik ko man sila tanan tanan sa ila duta nga wala gid sing isa nga nabilin.
Indi ko na gid sila pagpabay-an kay ipadala ko ang akon Espiritu sa ila. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Gindala ako sang Ginoo Ginoo didto kag may nakita ako nga isa ka tawo nga ang iya hitsura daw nagabadlak nga nagabadlak nga saway. Nagatindog siya sa may puwertahan nga nagauyat sang duha ka inugtakos: ang isa linen nga higot kag ang isa kahoy.
Nagsiling ang tawo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, magpamati ka, kag tan-awa sing maayo ang tanan nga ipakita ko sa imo kay amo ini ang rason kon ngaa gindala ka diri. Isugid dayon sa katawhan sang Israel ang tanan nga makita mo.”
Nakita ko ang templo nga napalibutan sang pader. Ginkuha sang tawo ang iya kahoy nga inugtakos, nga ang kalabaon 10 feet suno sa opisyal nga talaksan. Gintakos niya ang pader; 10 feet ang kataason sini kag ang kadamulon.
Dayon nagkadto ang tawo sa may alagyan sang templo sang templo nga nagaatubang sa east. Nagsaka siya sa hagdan kag gintakos niya ang samputan sang alagyan, kag 10 feet ang kalabaon sini.
Sa kada kilid sang sini nga alagyan may ara sang tatlo ka kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya. Ini nga mga kuwarto 10 feet kuwadrado, kag ang kadamulon sang pader sa tunga nila 8 feet. Sunod sa sini nga mga kuwarto may samputan naman nga pakadto sa balkon nga nagaatubang sa templo. Ini nga samputan may kalabaon nga 10 feet.
Gintakos man sang tawo ang balkon,
kag 14 feet ang kalabaon sini. Ang magtimbang nga pader sa alagyan sang balkon may kadamulon nga 3 feet.
Ang tatlo ka kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya palareho ang kadakuon, kag ang mga pader sa tunga nila palareho man ang kadamulon.
Gintakos sang tawo ang kasangkaron sang sini nga sini nga alagyan sa east sa east , kag 22 feet ini. Ang kasangkaron sang puwertahan sini 17 feet lang.
Sa atubangan sang kada kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya, may pader nga 20 inches ang kataason ang kataason kag 20 inches ang kadamulon ang kadamulon . Ini nga mga kuwarto 10 feet kuwadrado.
Dayon gintakos sang tawo ang bilog nga kasangkaron sang alagyan, kag 42 feet ini. Ang pagtakos sini halin sa likod sang pader sang kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang guwardya pakadto sa pihak nga pader sang pareho man nga kuwarto.
Gintakos niya ang pihak kag pihak nga pader sa sulod sang alagyan halin sa puwertahan pakadto sa balkon nga nagaatubang sa guwa nga ugsaran, kag ang bilog nga kalabaon sini 100 feet.
Ang kalabaon sang alagyan halin sa puwertahan pakadto sa punta sang balkon 85 feet.
May magagmay nga mga bintana sa tanan nga kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya kag subong man sa mga pader sa tunga sang sini nga mga kuwarto. Ini nga mga pader may dekorasyon nga mga palma nga gintigib.
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa guwa nga ugsaran. Didto may nakita ako nga 30 ka kuwarto nga nagaraya sa alagyan nga bato nga nagapalibot sa ugsaran.
Ining alagyan nga sa ubos nagalambot hasta sa kilid sang mga alagyan nga pasulod sa ugsaran nga pasulod sa ugsaran . Ang kasangkaron sang alagyan nga bato tupong sa kalabaon sang sina nga mga alagyan.
Dayon gintakos sang tawo ang distansya halin sa alagyan nga pasulod sa guwa nga ugsaran hasta sa alagyan nga pakadto sa sulod nga ugsaran, kag 170 feet ang distansya sini.
Dayon gintakos sang tawo ang kalabaon kag kasangkaron sang alagyan sa north. Ini nga alagyan nagapakadto sa guwa nga ugsaran.
Ang kada kilid sang alagyan may ara man sang tatlo ka kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya. Ang kadakuon sang sini nga mga kuwarto kag sang mga pader sa tunga sini, kag pati sang balkon sini, pareho man sa alagyan sa east. Ang kalabaon sang alagyan sa north 85 feet kag ang iya kasangkaron 42 feet kag 6 inches.
Ang iya mga bintana, balkon, kag dekorasyon nga mga palma pareho man sa alagyan sa east. May pito ka halintang pasaka sa alagyan, kag may balkon sa punta sini.
Ang sa sulod nga ugsaran may alagyan nga nagaatubang sa alagyan sa north, pareho sa alagyan sa east. Gintakos man sang tawo ang distansya sang duha ka alagyan, kag 170 feet ini.
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa south, kag didto may nakita ako nga alagyan. Gintakos niya ang balkon sini kag ang mga pader sa sulod, kag pareho man ang takos sini sa iban.
May mga bintana man sa palibot sang alagyan kag sang balkon pareho sa iban. Ang kalabaon sang alagyan 85 feet kag ang iya kasangkaron 42 feet kag 6 inches.
May pito man ka halintang pasaka sa alagyan kag may balkon man sa punta sini. Ang mga pader sa kilid sang alagyan may dekorasyon nga mga palma nga gintigib.
May ara man nga alagyan ang sulod nga ugsaran, nga nagaatubang sa south. Gintakos sang tawo ang distansya halin sa sini nga alagyan pakadto sa guwa nga alagyan sa south, kag 170 feet ini.
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa sulod nga ugsaran. Didto kami nag-agi sa alagyan sa south. Gintakos niya ang alagyan, kag pareho man ini kadako sa iban.
May ara man ini sang mga kuwarto, nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya. Ang kadakuon sang sini nga mga kuwarto kag sang mga pader sa tunga sini, kag pati sang balkon sini, pareho man kadako sa iban. May mga bintana man sa palibot sang alagyan kag sang balkon. Ang kalabaon sang alagyan 85 feet kag ang iya kasangkaron 42 feet kag 6 inches.
(Ang mga balkon sang mga alagyan nga nagapalibot sa sulod nga ugsaran may kalabaon nga 8 feet kag may kasangkaron nga 42 feet kag 6 inches.)
Ang balkon sang alagyan sa south sa south nagaatubang sa guwa nga ugsaran, kag may dekorasyon ini nga mga palma nga gintigib sa iya magtimbang nga pader. May walo ka halintang pasaka sa sini nga alagyan.
Dayon gindala liwat liwat ako sang tawo sa sulod nga ugsaran. Didto kami nag-agi sa alagyan sa east. Gintakos niya ang alagyan kag pareho man ini kadako sa iban.
May ara man ini sang mga kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya. Ang kadakuon sang sini nga mga kuwarto kag sang mga pader sa tunga sini, kag pati sang balkon sini, pareho man kadako sa iban. May mga bintana man sa palibot sang alagyan kag sang balkon. Ang kalabaon sang alagyan 85 feet kag ang iya kasangkaron 42 feet kag 6 inches.
Ang balkon sini nagaatubang sa guwa nga ugsaran, kag may dekorasyon ini nga mga palma nga gintigib sa iya magtimbang nga pader. May walo ka halintang pasaka sa sini nga alagyan.
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa alagyan sa north. Gintakos niya ini nga alagyan kag pareho man ini kadako sa iban.
May ara man ini nga mga kuwarto nga sa diin nagabantay ang mga guwardya. Ang kadakuon sang sini nga mga kuwarto kag sang mga pader sa tunga sini, kag pati sang balkon sini, pareho man kadako sa iban. May mga bintana man sa palibot sang alagyan. Ang kalabaon sang alagyan 85 feet kag ang iya kasangkaron 42 feet kag 6 inches.
May nakita dayon ako nga kuwarto nga may puwertahan, sa tupad sang balkon sang alagyan sa north sa north . Didto ginahugasan ang mga halad nga sunugon.
Sa kada kilid sang sina nga balkon may duha ka lamisa nga sa diin ginaihaw ang mga sapat nga bilang halad nga ginasunog, halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag halad nga bayad sa sala.
May duha pa gid ka lamisa sa kada kilid sang hagdan nga pasaka sa alagyan sa north.
Gani may walo tanan ka lamisa nga ginaihawan sang mga halad, apat sa balkon kag apat sa kilid sang alagyan.
May apat man didto ka lamisa nga hinimo halin sa bato nga binasbasan, nga sa diin ginabutang ang mga galamiton para sa pag-ihaw sang mga halad nga sunugon kag iban pa nga mga halad. Ini nga mga lamisa 30 inches kuwadrado kag 20 inches ang kataason.
Sa palibot sang pader sang balkon may mga salang-atan nga 3 inches ang kalabaon. Kag nakita ko nakita ko sa mga lamisa ang mga karne nga ihalad.
May duha ka kuwarto sa sulod nga ugsaran. Ang isa ara sa kilid sang alagyan sa north kag nagaatubang sa south, kag ang isa ara sa kilid sang alagyan sa south kag nagaatubang sa north.
Nagsiling ang tawo sa akon, “Ang kuwarto nga nagaatubang sa south para ini sa mga pari nga nagadumala sa templo,
kag ang kuwarto nga nagaatubang sa north para sa mga pari nga nagadumala sa halaran. Ini sila mga kaliwat ni Zadok, kag sila lang sa mga kaliwat ni Levi ang gintugutan nga makapalapit sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo kag makaalagad sa iya.
Dayon gintakos sang tawo ang sulod nga ugsaran, kag 170 feet ini kuwadrado. Ang halaran ara sa atubangan sang templo.”
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa balkon sang templo. Gintakos niya ang magtimbang nga pader sa alagyan sang balkon, kag ang kada pader may kasangkaron nga 8 feet kag may kadamulon nga 5 feet. Ang kasangkaron sang alagyan sang balkon 24 feet.
Ang balkon 34 feet ang kalabaon kag 20 feet ang kasangkaron. May napulo ka halintang pasaka sa balkon, kag may haligi sa kada kilid.
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa Balaan nga Lugar sang templo sang templo . Gintakos niya ang magtimbang nga pader sang alagyan sang Balaan nga Lugar sang alagyan sang Balaan nga Lugar , kag ang kada pader may kasangkaron nga 10 feet
kag may kadamulon nga 8 feet. Ang kasangkaron sang alagyan 17 feet. Gintakos man niya ang Balaan nga Lugar, kag 68 feet ang kalabaon sini kag 34 feet ang kasangkaron.
Dayon nagsulod ang tawo sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar. Gintakos niya ang magtimbang nga pader sang alagyan sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar sang Labing Balaan nga Lugar , kag ang kada pader may kasangkaron nga 12 feet kag may kadamulon nga 3 feet. Ang kasangkaron sang alagyan 10 feet.
Gintakos niya ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar, kag 34 feet ini kuwadrado. Nagsiling dayon ang tawo sa akon, “Amo ini ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar.”
Dayon gintakos sang tawo ang pader sang templo, kag 10 feet ang kadamulon sini. Sa sini nga pader, may nagaraya nga mga kuwarto nga ang kasangkaron 7 feet.
Ini nga mga kuwarto may tatlo ka panalgan, kag ang kada panalgan may 30 ka kuwarto. Ang pader sang templo nagaamat-amat nipis sa kada panalgan para makatungtong ang mga kuwarto sa pader nga indi na kinahanglan sang mga sintas.
Ini nga mga kuwarto sa palibot sang templo nagaamat-amat sangkad halin sa una nga panalgan hasta sa ikatlo nga panalgan. May hagdanan halin sa una nga panalgan pakadto sa ikaduha nga panalgan hasta sa ikatlo nga panalgan.
Nakita ko nga ang templo napasad sa mataas nga lugar nga 10 feet ang kataason, kag amo man bali ini ang pundasyon sang mga kuwarto sa kilid.
Ang sa guwa nga pader sang mga kuwarto 8 feet ang kadamulon. May bakante nga lugar sa tunga sang sini nga mga kuwarto
kag sang isa pa ka building nga puro man kuwarto. Ang kasangkaron sang sini nga bakante nga lugar 34 feet, kag nagapalibot ini sa templo.
May duha ka puwertahan pasulod sa sadto nga mga kuwarto sa kilid sang templo. Ini nga mga puwertahan nagaatubang sa bakante nga lugar; ang isa sa north kag ang isa sa south. Sa tupad sang bakante nga lugar may alagyan nga ang kasangkaron 8 feet palibot.
May isa ka building nga nagaatubang sa sulod nga ugsaran sang templo sa west. Ang kasangkaron sini 118 feet kag ang kalabaon 150 feet, kag ang kadamulon sang pader sini 8 feet.
Dayon gintakos sang tawo ang templo, kag 170 feet ang kalabaon sini. Ang distansya halin sa likod sang templo pakadto sa pihak nga pader sang building sa west sa west 170 feet.
Ang kasangkaron sang sulod nga ugsaran sa east, sa atubangan sang templo, 170 feet man.
Dayon gintakos sang tawo ang kasangkaron sang building sa west sa west , nga nagaatubang sa sulod nga ugsaran sa likod sang templo, pati ang mga pader sini sa kada kilid, kag 170 feet man ini. Ang Balaan nga Lugar, ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar, kag ang balkon sang templo
nahaklapan sang tapi,
Ang dingding sa ibabaw sang puwertahan nga pasulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar nahaklapan man sang tapi. Ang bilog nga dingding sa sulod sang templo
nadekorasyunan sang mga kerubin nga duha ang guya kag sang mga palma.
Ang isa ka guya sang kerubin iya sang tawo, kag nagaatubang ini sa palma. Ang isa naman ka guya sang kerubin iya sang leon, kag nagaatubang man ini sa pihak nga palma. Ini nga mga dekorasyon gintigib sa bilog nga dingding sang templo
halin sa salog hasta sa ibabaw, pati sa guwa nga dingding sang Balaan nga Lugar.
Kuwadrado ang mga hamba
halaran nga kahoy nga 3 feet kuwadrado kag 5 feet ang kataason. Ang iya sini mga corner, pundasyon, kag mga kilid puro kahoy. Nagsiling ang tawo sa akon, “Amo ini ang lamisa sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Ang Balaan nga Lugar kag ang Labing Balaan nga Lugar may tag-duha ka sira,
nga ang kada sira may duha ka parte nga puwede mapilo-pilo.
Ang mga sira sang Balaan nga Lugar may dekorasyon nga kerubin kag mga palma nga gintigib, pareho sa mga dingding. Kag ang balkon may atop-atop nga kahoy.
Sa kada kilid sang balkon may magagmay nga mga bintana nga may dekorasyon nga mga palma sa tupad sini. Ang mga kuwarto sa kilid sang templo may mga atop-atop man.
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa guwa nga ugsaran sang templo. Didto kami nag-agi sa alagyan sa north. Kag didto ginpakita niya sa akon ang mga kuwarto nga ara sa north sang sulod nga ugsaran kag sang building sa west sa west .
Ini nga mga kuwarto nga nagaatubang sa north 170 feet ang kalabaon kag 85 feet ang kasangkaron.
May antad nga 34 feet ang ini nga mga kuwarto kag ang templo, kag nagaatubang ini sa alagyan nga bato sa guwa nga ugsaran. Ini nga mga kuwarto may tatlo ka panalgan
kag sa atubangan sini may ara sang alagyan nga 17 feet ang kasangkaron kag 170 feet ang kalabaon. Ang mga puwertahan sang mga kuwarto nagaatubang sa north.
Ang mga kuwarto sa ikatatlo nga panalgan mas makitid sang sa ikaduha nga panalgan, kag ang mga kuwarto sa ikaduha nga panalgan mas makitid sang sa nahauna nga panalgan, kay nagakinahanglan sang alagyan ang sa ibabaw nga panalgan.
Ang tatlo ka panalgan wala sing mga haligi, indi pareho sang mga ugsaran. Kag tungod nga nagatungtunganay lang ini, nagaamat-amat pagamay ang mga kuwarto halin sa ibabaw paidalom.
Ini nga building naseparar sa guwa nga ugsaran paagi sa pader nga 85 feet ang kalabaon.
Kay kon wala ang ini nga pader, kon wala ang ini nga pader, ang katunga sang building nga 85 feet kitaon sa guwa nga ugsaran. Ang bilog nga kalabaon sang building, nga 170 feet, kitaon sa templo.
May alagyan pasulod sa idalom nga panalgan sang sini nga building halin sa guwa nga ugsaran sa east.
May ara man sang mga kuwarto sa south
May ara man sang alagyan sa atubangan sang sini nga mga kuwarto, pareho sa mga kuwarto sa north. Ang ila kalabaon kag kasangkaron pareho man, pati ang ila mga alagyan kag ang takos
pareho man sa mga kuwarto sa south. May puwertahan pagsampot mismo sa alagyan nga pasulod sa sina nga building. May pader sa kilid sang sini nga alagyan kon magsulod ka halin sa east.
Nagsiling ang tawo sa akon, “Ining mga kuwarto sa south kag sa north, sa tupad sang sulod nga ugsaran, balaan nga mga kuwarto. Kay ang mga pari nga nagahalad sa Ginoo Ginoo dira magakaon sang labing balaan nga mga halad. Gamiton man nila ang ini nga mga kuwarto nga bulutangan sang mga halad nga regalo, mga halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag mga halad nga bayad sa sala. Kay ini nga mga kuwarto balaan.
Kon magguwa na gani ang mga pari sa sining balaan nga mga kuwarto,
Pagkatapos takos sang tawo sa sulod sang templo, gindala niya ako paguwa. Didto kami nag-agi sa alagyan sa east, kag gintakos niya dayon ang bilog nga kalaparon sang templo.
Gintakos niya sang iya kahoy nga inugtakos ang sa east, kag 850 feet ang kalabaon sini.
Gani ang templo kuwadrado, kag napalibutan sang pader nga nagaseparar sa balaan nga lugar kag sa ordinaryo nga lugar.
Pagkatapos sadto, gindala naman ako sang tawo sa alagyan sa east.
Kag didto nakita ko ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Dios sang Israel nga nagapadulong halin sa east. Ang tunog sang iya pag-abot daw sa huganas sang mabaskog nga tubig, kag ang duta nagabanaag sang iya gamhanan nga presensya.
Ini nga palanan-awon nga akon nakita pareho man sadtong palanan-awon nga nakita ko sang ginlaglag sang Dios ang siyudad sang Jerusalem, sang Jerusalem, kag pareho man sang palanan-awon nga nakita ko didto sa higad sang Suba sang Kebar. Pagkakita ko sadto, Pagkakita ko sadto, naghapa dayon ako sa duta.
Dayon nagsulod ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa templo. Didto ini nag-agi sa alagyan sa east.
Ginpabangon ako sang Espiritu kag gindala sa sulod nga ugsaran. Didto nakita ko nga ang templo nalikupan sang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Samtang nagatindog ang tawo sa akon tupad, may nabatian ako nga tingog halin sa templo
nga nagsiling sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, amo ini ang akon trono kag ang tulungtungan sang akon mga tiil. Diri ako magapuyo upod sa mga Israelinhon hasta san-o. Indi na gid liwat pagpakahuy-an sang mga Israelinhon ukon sang ila mga hari ang balaan ko nga ngalan paagi sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios
Sadto anay nagpatindog sila sang halaran nga para sa ila mga dios-dios sa tupad sang akon halaran, nga pader lang ang ulot. Gindagtaan nila ang akon balaan nga ngalan paagi sa sinang mga makangilil-ad nga binuhatan. Gani sa akon kaakig, ginlaglag ko sila.
Karon, kinahanglan nga mag-untat na sila sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios kag sa mga monumento sang ila mga hari nga nagkalamatay na, kag magapuyo ako upod sa ila hasta san-o.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang tingog, Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang tingog, “Anak sang tawo, ilarawan sa katawhan sang Israel ang templo nga ginpakita ko sa imo nga ginpakita ko sa imo . Isugid sa ila ang hitsura sini para mahuya sila sa ila mga sala.
Kon mahuya na gani sila sa tanan nila nga mga binuhatan, ilarawan sa ila ang pagpaobra sini, pati ang iya mga alagyan kag mga puwertahan, kag ang iya bilog nga porma. Isulat mo ang mga pagsulundan sa pagpaobra sini samtang nagatulok sila para masunod gid nila sing maayo.
Kag amo ini ang nagapanguna nga nagapanguna nga kasuguan sang templo: Dapat balaan gid ang palibot sang ibabaw sang bukid nga sa diin napatindog ang templo.
“Amo ini ang takos sang halaran suno sa opisyal nga talaksan: Palibot sa pundasyon sang halaran may kulokanal nga 20 inches ang kadalumon kag 20 inches ang kasangkaron, nga may border sa palibot nga 6 inches ang kataason.
Nagsiling pa gid ang tingog sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoong Dios Dios : Kon matapos na gani ang halaran, idedikar ini paagi sa paghalad sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sa pagwisik sang dugo sang mga sapat nga ginahalad.
Ang mga pari nga nagaalagad sa akon, nga halin sa tribo ni Levi kag mga kaliwat ni Zadok, hatagan sang bataon nga baka nga ila ihalad bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Magkuha ka sang dugo sini kag ilamhit sa apat ka sulosungay sa mga corner sa mga corner sang halaran kag sa mga corner sang ikaduha nga panalgan sang halaran kag sa border sini. Sa sini nga paagi matinluan ang halaran.
Dayon kuhaon mo ang bataon nga baka nga halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag sunugon mo ini sa lugar nga sulunugan sa guwa sang templo.
Sa ikaduha nga adlaw, maghalad ka sang lalaki nga kanding nga wala sing deperensya bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para matinluan ang halaran, pareho sa ginhimo mo sa bataon nga baka.
Pagkatapos magkuha ka sang isa ka bataon nga baka kag isa ka karnero nga pareho nga wala sing deperensya,
kag ihalad mo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo . Wisikan ini sang mga pari sang asin kag ihalad nila sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang halad nga ginasunog.
“Kada adlaw, sa sulod sang isa ka semana, maghalad ka sang isa ka lalaki nga kanding, isa ka bataon nga baka, kag isa ka karnero nga wala tanan sing deperensya bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Sa sini nga paagi matinluan ang halaran kag puwede na nga gamiton.
Halin sa ikawalo nga adlaw, magahalad na sa halaran ang mga pari sang inyo mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Dayon batunon ko kamo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Gindala ako liwat sang tawo sa guwa nga alagyan sang templo, nga nagaatubang sa east, pero sirado ini.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Ini nga alagyan dapat permi sirado. Indi gid ini pagbuksan para wala sing may mag-agi diri, kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang Israel, nag-agi diri.
Ang pangulo lang sang Israel ang makapungko sa sini nga alagyan sa pagkaon sang ginhalad sa akon, pero didto siya mag-agi sa balkon sang alagyan, kag didto man siya magguwa.”
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo sa atubangan sang templo. Didto kami nag-agi sa alagyan sa north. Nakita ko didto ang gamhanan nga presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagalikop sa iya templo, kag naghapa dayon ako.
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, pamatii gid sing maayo ang tanan nga ihambal ko sa imo parte sa tanan nga pagsulundan parte sa akon templo. Hibalua sing maayo kon sin-o ang makasulod sa templo kag ang indi makasulod.
Silinga ang rebelde nga katawhan sang Israel nga ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling, ‘O katawhan sang Israel, untati na ninyo ang tanan nga makangilil-ad ninyo nga ginahimo.
Ginapasulod ninyo sa akon templo ang mga indi Israelinhon nga wala nagatuo sa akon.
Imbes nga kamo ang magdumala sang akon balaan nga mga butang sa templo sa templo , iban ang inyo ginpadumala.
Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling nga wala sing mga indi Israelinhon nga wala nagatuo sa akon ang makasulod sa akon templo, bisan ang mga indi Israelinhon nga nagaestar upod sa inyo.’
“Kon parte sa mga kaliwat ni Levi nga nagbiya sa akon kag nag-upod sa iban nga mga Israelinhon nga nagsimba sa ila mga dios-dios, magaantos sila tungod sa ila mga sala.
Puwede sila makaalagad sa akon templo bilang mga guwardya sa puwertahan kag manug-ihaw sang mga halad nga ginasunog kag sang iban pa nga mga halad sang mga tawo. Kag puwede sila makaalagad sa mga tawo sa templo.
Pero tungod kay nag-alagad sila sa mga tawo sa presensya sang ila mga dios-dios, kag tungod sini nagpakasala ang katawhan sang Israel, nagasumpa ako nga mag-antos gid sila tungod sa ila nga sala. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Sugod subong indi ko na sila pagtugutan nga mag-alagad sa akon bilang mga pari. Indi man sila makatandog sa balaan ko nga mga butang ukon sa balaan ko nga mga halad. Kinahanglan nga mag-antos sila sa kahuy-anan tungod sang ila makangilil-ad nga mga binuhatan.
Himuon ko na lang sila nga mga manugbulig sa tanan nga ulobrahon sa templo.
“Pero ang mga pari nga halin sa tribo ni Levi kag mga kaliwat ni Zadok nga matinumanon nga nag-alagad sa akon sa templo sang nagbiya sa akon ang mga Israelinhon, makaalagad sila sa akon. Sila ang magahalad sa akon sang tambok kag dugo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Sila lang ang makasulod sa akon templo kag makapalapit sa akon halaran sa pag-alagad sa akon. Sila lang ang makahimo sa akon mga ginapatuman sa templo.
Kon magsulod sila sa alagyan pakadto sa sulod nga ugsaran sang templo, kinahanglan nga magbayo sila sang linen. Indi sila magbayo sang delana samtang nagaalagad sila sa sulod nga ugsaran ukon sa sulod mismo sang templo.
Kinahanglan nga mag-turban sila sang linen kag magsuksok sang pang-idalom nga panapton nga hinimo man sa linen. Indi sila magsuksok sang bisan ano nga makapabalhas sa ila.
Kon magguwa sila sa guwa nga ugsaran nga sa diin didto ang mga tawo, kinahanglan nga ubahon anay nila ang ila mga bayo nga ginagamit sa pag-alagad kag ibutang didto sa balaan nga mga kuwarto, kag dayon magsuksok sila sang ordinaryo lang nga bayo. Sa sina nga paagi, ang pagkabalaan sang ila bayo indi makaapekto sa mga tawo.
“Kinahanglan indi sila magpakiskis sang ila ulo ukon magpalaba sang ila buhok, kundi guntingan lang nila ini permi.
Indi man sila mag-inom sang bino kon magkadto sila sa sulod nga ugsaran.
Indi man sila magpangasawa sang balo ukon sang babayi nga ginbulagan sang iya bana. Ang ila pangasaw-on amo lang atong birhen nga mga Israelinhon, ukon ang mga balo sang mga pari.
Kinahanglan tudluan nila ang akon katawhan kon ano ang balaan kag ang indi balaan, kon ano ang matinlo kag ang mahigko.
Kon may mga pagbinais, ang mga pari amo ang magahukom kag magadesisyon suno sa akon nga mga kasuguan. Kinahanglan nga tumanon sang mga pari ang akon mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan parte sa natalana nga mga piesta, kag pakabalaanon nila ang mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Indi nila dapat pagdagtaan ang ila kaugalingon paagi sa pagtandog sang bangkay
Kon makatandog siya sang bangkay, Kon makatandog siya sang bangkay, kinahanglan nga magpakatinlo siya
Kag kon magsulod na siya sa sulod nga ugsaran sang templo sa pag-alagad didto, dapat maghalad anay siya sang halad sa pagpakatinlo para sa iya kaugalingon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagpadayon sa pagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Wala sing duta nga panublion ang mga pari sa Israel, kay ako mismo ang magahatag sang ila mga kinahanglanon.
Ang ila kalan-on magahalin sa mga halad nga regalo, mga halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag mga halad nga bayad sa sala. Kag ang mga butang nga gintugyan na sing bug-os sa akon mangin ila.
Ang pinakamaayo sang inyo una nga patubas kag ang espesyal ninyo nga mga regalo sa akon mangin iya sang mga pari. Hatagan man ninyo sang inyo pinakamaayo nga harina ang mga pari, para pakamaayuhon ang inyo panimalay.
Indi dapat magkaon ang mga pari sang bisan ano nga pispis ukon sapat nga napatay lang ukon ginpatay sang iban nga sapat.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo , Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon partidahon na ninyo ang duta para sa tagsa ka tribo sang Israel, hatagan ninyo ako sang parte bilang espesyal nga regalo sa akon. Ang kalabaon sini dose ka kilometro kag ang kasangkaron napulo ka kilometro.
Sa sini nga duta, magseparar kamo sang 875 feet kuwadrado nga para patindugan sang templo, kag sa palibot sang templo may bakante nga lugar nga 87 feet ang kasangkaron.
Ang katunga pa nga duta, nga dose ka kilometro ang kalabaon kag lima ka kilometro ang kasangkaron, iya sang mga Levita. Ila ini panag-iyahan, para may mga banwa sila nga pagaestaran.
“Sa tupad sang duta nga para sa akon, magpain kamo sang duta nga dose ka kilometro ang kalabaon kag duha kag tunga ka kilometro ang kasangkaron. Ini himuon nga banwa nga sa diin makaestar ang bisan sin-o nga mga Israelinhon.
Painan man sing duha ka parte sang duta ang pangulo sang Israel. Ang isa ka parte halin sa west nga border sang duta nga para sa akon kag sang duta nga himuon nga banwa pakadto sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo, kag ang isa pa ka parte halin sa east nga border pakadto sa Suba sang Jordan. Ang border sini sa east kag sa west tupong sa border sang mga duta nga ginpartida sa mga tribo sang Israel.
“Ang akon mga pangulo indi na magpamigos sa akon katawhan. Tugutan nila ang katawhan sang Israel nga magpanag-iya sa duta nga ginahatag sa ila suno sa ila tribo.
Kay ako, ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , nagasiling: Kamo nga mga pangulo sang Israel, sobra na ang inyo mga ginahimo! Untati na ninyo ang inyo pagpamintas kag pagpamigos, kag himua ninyo ang matarong kag husto. Indi na ninyo pagkuhaa ang duta sang akon katawhan.
Gamita ninyo ang husto nga kilohan, talaksan, ukon sulukban.
“Amo ini ang mga halad nga dapat ninyo dal-on sa pangulo sang Israel sa pangulo sang Israel : Ika-60 nga parte sang inyo patubas nga trigo kag barley,
ika-100 nga parte sang inyo lana nga olibo nga olibo (ang basihan sa pagtakos sini amo ang bat; ang napulo ka bat isa ka homer ukon isa ka cor),
kag isa ka karnero sa kada 200 halin sa inyo kasapatan. Mga halad ini nga regalo, mga halad nga ginasunog, kag mga halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon, para matubos kamo sa inyo mga sala. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
Tanan nga Israelinhon magdala sini nga mga halad para gamiton sang pangulo sang Israel.
Katungdanan sang pangulo ang paghatag sang mga halad nga ginasunog, halad nga regalo, halad nga ilimnon, halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon sa tion sang mga piesta pareho sang Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, mga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag iban pa nga natalana nga mga piesta sang mga Israelinhon. Ihalad ini nga mga halad para matubos ang katawhan sang Israel sa ila mga sala.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Sa nahauna nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, maghalad kamo sang bataon nga baka nga wala sing deperensya para matinluan ang templo.
Ang pari magkuha sang dugo sining halad sa Pagpakatinlo kag lamhitan niya ang hamba
Amo man ini ang inyo himuon sa ikapito nga adlaw sang amo man nga bulan para sa kay bisan sin-o nga nakasala nga indi hungod ukon nakasala nga wala niya mahibalui. Sa sini nga paagi matinluan ang templo.
“Sa ika-14 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, saulugon ninyo ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Saulugon ninyo ini sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw, kag magkaon lang kamo sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok.
Sa nahauna nga adlaw sang inyo pagsaulog, maghalad ang pangulo sang bataon nga baka bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo para sa iya kaugalingon kag sa tanan nga Israelinhon.
Kada adlaw sa sulod sang pito ka adlaw sang inyo pagsaulog, maghalad sa akon ang pangulo sang pito ka bataon nga baka kag pito ka lalaki nga karnero nga wala sing deperensya bilang halad nga ginasunog. Maghalad man siya sang isa ka lalaki nga kanding bilang halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Sa kada bataon nga baka kag kada lalaki nga karnero kinahanglan nga may upod ini nga halad nga regalo, nga ang kadamuon mga tunga sa sako nga harina kag mga isa ka galon nga lana sang olibo.
Magahalad man ang pangulo sa tion sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag , nga nagasugod sa ika-15 nga adlaw sang ika-7 nga bulan. Kag sa sulod man sang pito ka adlaw, magahalad siya sang pareho man nga mga halad nga iya ginhalad sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel nga iya ginhalad sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel : mga halad sa pagpakatinlo, mga halad nga ginasunog, mga halad nga regalo, kag lana.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Ang alagyan pakadto sa sulod nga ugsaran nga nagaatubang sa east kinahanglan sirado sa sulod sang anom ka adlaw nga tig-ulobra, pero abrihan ini sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kag sa tion sang Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan.
Ang pangulo magaagi sa alagyan nga nagaatubang sa east nga nagaatubang sa east kag magatindog siya sa tupad sang puwertahan samtang nagahalad ang mga pari sang iya halad nga ginasunog kag sang iya halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon. Magasimba ang pangulo didto sa may puwertahan kag pagkatapos magaguwa siya, pero ang puwertahan indi pagsiradhan hasta maggab-i.
Sa kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway kag sa kada Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan, ang katawhan sang Israel magasimba man sa akon didto sa atubangan sang puwertahan.
Sa kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, magahalad ang pangulo sa akon sang isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki kag anom ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki nga wala sing deperensya bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Ang halad nga regalo nga iupod sa gulang nga karnero tunga sa sako nga harina nga harina , pero pagusto ang pangulo kon pila ang iya iupod nga harina nga harina sa kada bataon nga karnero. Sa kada tunga sa sako nga harina nga iupod niya sa mga halad nga karnero nga harina nga iupod niya sa mga halad nga karnero , maghalad man siya sang isa ka galon nga lana sang olibo.
“Sa kada Piesta sang Pag-umpisa sang Bulan magahalad ang pangulo sang isa ka bataon nga baka, isa ka gulang nga karnero nga lalaki, kag anom ka bataon nga karnero nga lalaki, nga wala tanan sing deperensya.
Ang halad nga regalo nga iupod sang pangulo sa bataon nga baka kag sa gulang nga karnero tig-tunga sa sako nga harina nga harina , pero pagusto siya kon pila ang iya iupod nga harina nga harina sa kada bataon nga karnero. Sa kada tunga sa sako nga harina nga iupod niya sa mga halad nga sapat nga harina nga iupod niya sa mga halad nga sapat , maghalad man siya sang isa ka galon nga lana sang olibo.
Kon magsulod ang pangulo sa paghalad, didto siya mag-agi sa balkon sang alagyan, kag didto man siya magguwa.
“Kon magsimba sa akon ang katawhan sang Israel sa templo sa templo sa natalana nga mga piesta, ang magsulod sa north nga alagyan kinahanglan nga sa south nga alagyan magguwa, kag ang magsulod sa south kinahanglan nga sa north magguwa. Wala sing may magsulod-guwa sa amo lang gihapon nga alagyan, kundi kinahanglan nga sa pihak siya nga alagyan magguwa kon sa pihak siya nagsulod.
Madungan ang pangulo sa ila kon magsulod sila kag kon magguwa.
“Sa tion sang nagkalain-lain nga piesta, ang halad nga regalo nga iupod sa bataon nga baka kag sa gulang nga karnero tig-tunga sa sako nga harina nga harina , pero pagusto ang manughalad kon pila ang iya iupod nga harina nga harina sa kada bataon nga karnero. Sa kada tunga sa sako nga harina nga iupod niya sa mga halad nga sapat nga harina nga iupod niya sa mga halad nga sapat , maghalad man siya sang isa ka galon nga lana sang olibo.
Kon maghalad ang pangulo sang halad nga ginasunog ukon halad nga para sa maayo nga relasyon bilang halad nga kinabubut-on, buksan para sa iya ang alagyan nga nagaatubang sa east. Kag ihalad niya ang iya mga halad pareho sang iya paghalad sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Pagguwa niya, siradhan dayon ang puwertahan.
“Kada aga, dapat may ginahalad sa akon nga karnero nga isa ka tuig nga wala sing deperensya bilang halad nga ginasunog.
Iupod sa sini nga karnero ang halad nga regalo nga tatlo ka kilo nga harina, kag isa ka litro nga lana sang olibo nga inugmiksla sa harina. Ini nga pagsulundan parte sa halad nga regalo dapat tumanon hasta san-o.
Gani kada aga, dapat may ginahalad sa akon nga karnero, harina, kag lana sang olibo bilang pang-adlaw-adlaw nga halad nga ginasunog.”
Nagpadayon pa gid sa pagsiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Kon ang pangulo maghatag sang palanublion nga duta sa isa sa iya mga anak, ina nga duta mangin iya lang sang iya mga kaliwat hasta san-o.
Pero kon ihatag niya ini sa isa sang iya mga suluguon, mangin iya ini sang suluguon hasta lang sa Tuig sang Paghilway kag Pag-uli. Sa sina nga tuig, ibalik sang suluguon ang duta sa pangulo. Ang mga anak gid lang sang pangulo ang makapanag-iya sang iya nga duta hasta san-o.
Ang pangulo indi dapat nga magkuha sang duta sang mga tawo. Kon maghatag siya sang duta sa iya mga anak, dapat ang iya lang gid nga duta ang iya ihatag, para ang akon katawhan indi madulaan sang duta.”
Pagkatapos sadto gindala ako sang tawo sa balaan nga mga kuwarto sang mga pari nga nagaatubang sa south. Didto kami nag-agi sa puwertahan nga ara sa kilid sang alagyan. Didto ginpakita niya sa akon ang lugar nga ara sa west sang sini nga mga kuwarto sang sini nga mga kuwarto .
Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Dira nga lugar ang mga pari magaluto sang halad nga bayad sa sala, halad sa pagpakatinlo, kag sang halad nga regalo. Dira nila ina lutuon para malikawan nila ang pagdala sang mga halad sa guwa nga ugsaran. Sa sini nga paagi indi maapektuhan ang mga tawo sang pagkabalaan sini.”
Ang kada isa sini napalibutan sang manubo nga pader nga mga bato, kag sa kilid sang pader may mga dapog.
Nagsiling dayon ang tawo sa akon, “Ina ang mga kusina nga sa diin ang mga nagaalagad sa templo magaluto sang mga halad sang mga tawo.”
Dayon gindala ako sang tawo pabalik sa may puwertahan sang templo, kag didto may nakita ako nga tubig nga nagailig pa-east halin sa samputan sang puwertahan sang templo. (Ang templo nagaatubang sa east.) Dayon nagliko ang tubig patuo, sa south sang halaran.
Gindala dayon ako sang tawo sa guwa sang templo. Didto kami nag-agi sa alagyan sa north. Kag ginlibot niya ako didto sa guwa pakadto sa alagyan sa east. Didto nakita ko ang tubig nga nagailig halin sa north sang alagyan.
Naglakat kami sang tawo pa-east sa higad sang tubig, kag sige ang iya takos. Sang mga 1,700 feet na ang amon nalakat, ginpaubog niya ako sa tubig nga hasta pa lang sa akon bukobuko.
Nagtakos liwat ang tawo sing mga 1,700 feet kag ginpaubog niya ako liwat sa tubig nga hasta na sa akon tuhod. Nagtakos siya liwat sing mga 1,700 feet kag ginpaubog niya ako liwat sa tubig nga hasta na sa akon hawak.
Nagtakos pa gid siya sing mga 1,700 feet, pero indi ko na ini maubog kay tama na kadalom. Kinahanglan na ini nga languyon.
Nagsiling ang tawo sa akon, “Anak sang tawo, tandai sing maayo ang imo nakita.” Dayon gindala niya ako pabalik nga nagaagi sa higad sang sadto nga suba.
Sang nagaagi kami didto, may nakita ako nga madamo gid nga mga kahoy sa magtimbang nga pangpang.
Dayon nagsiling siya sa akon, “Ini nga tubig nagailig sa kadutaan sa east padulhog sa Kapatagan sang Jordan
Bisan diin mag-ilig ato nga tubig, madamo gid nga mga isda kag iban pa nga mga sapat sa tubig ang magakabuhi, kay ginapanami sini ang maasin nga tubig.
Madamo ang magapangisda sa Patay nga Dagat halin sa En Gedi pakadto sa En Eglaim. Ang baybayon mapuno sang mga pukot nga ginabulad sa init. Magadamo ang nagkalain-lain nga isda sa Patay nga Dagat pareho sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo.
Pero ang mga katubigan sa palibot sini maasin lang gihapon, para may makuhaan sang asin ang mga tawo.
Magatubo sa pihak kag pihak sang suba ang nagkalain-lain nga kahoy nga nagapamunga. Indi malaya ang ila mga dahon kag indi maubos ang ila mga bunga. Magapamunga ini kada bulan kay ginailigan ini sang tubig nga halin sa templo. Ang ila mga bunga para pagkaon kag ang ila mga dahon para bulong.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoong Dios Dios , “Amo ini ang mga border sang duta nga inyo partidahon sa dose ka tribo sang Israel bilang ila nga palanublion. Hatagan ninyo sang duha ka parte ang tribo ni Jose.
Dapat palareho ang inyo pagpartida sang duta, kay nagsumpa ako sa inyo mga katigulangan nga ihatag ko ini sa ila kag panublion ninyo.
“Ang border sa north magasugod sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo pakadto sa Hetlon, sa Lebo Hamat, sa Zedad,
sa Berota, sa Sibraim nga ara sa border sang Damascus kag Hamat, hasta sa Hazer Haticon nga ara sa border sang Hauran.
Gani ang border sa north magasugod sa Dagat sang Mediteraneo hasta sa Hazar Enan, nga ara sa border sang Damascus kag sang Hamat sa north. Amo ato ang border sa north.
“Ang border sa east magasugod sa border sang Hauran kag sang Damascus pakadto sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan (nga nagaseparar sang Gilead kag sang duta sang Israel) pakadto sa Patay nga Dagat
“Ang border sa south magasugod sa Tamar pakadto sa tuburan sang Meriba Kadesh
“Ang border sa west amo mismo ang Dagat sang Mediteraneo hasta sa lugar nga nagaatubang sa Lebo Hamat. Amo ato ang border sa west.
“Partidahon ninyo ini nga mga duta para sa inyo tagsa ka tribo.
Palanublion ninyo ini kag sang mga pangayaw nga nagaestar upod sa inyo nga ang ila mga kabataan natawo sa Israel. Kabigon ninyo sila nga tumandok nga mga Israelinhon, kag partihan man ninyo sila sang palanublion nga duta nga duta sang tribo sang Israel.
Kon diin sila nga tribo nagaestar, didto man sila partihan sang ila duta. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Ang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Dan ara sa north. Ang border sini magasugod sa Hetlon pakadto sa Lebo Hamat hasta sa Hazar Enan nga ara sa border sang Damascus kag sang Hamat sa north. Ang kasangkaron sang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Dan magahalin sa east hasta sa west sang Israel sang Israel .
Ang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Asher ara sa south sang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Dan, kag ang kasangkaron sini halin man sa east hasta sa west sang Israel sang Israel .
Ang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Naftali ara sa north sang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Asher, kag ang kasangkaron sini halin man sa east hasta sa west sang Israel sang Israel .
Ang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Manase ara sa south sang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Naftali, kag ang kasangkaron sini halin man sa east hasta sa west sang Israel sang Israel .
Ang duta sa north sang Juda ihatag ninyo sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang espesyal nga regalo. Dose ka kilometro ang kalabaon sini, kag ang kasangkaron halin man sa east hasta sa west sang Israel sang Israel pareho sa mga tribo sang Israel sang Israel . Ang templo patindugon sa tunga sang sini nga duta.
Ang parte sang duta nga inyo ihatag sa Ginoo Ginoo para patindugan sang templo para patindugan sang templo dose ka kilometro ang kalabaon kag lima ka kilometro ang kasangkaron.
Ang katunga sang sini nga duta ihatag sa mga pari. Ang kalabaon sini halin sa east pakadto sa west dose ka kilometro, kag ang kasangkaron sini halin sa north pakadto sa south lima ka kilometro. Sa tunga sini amo ang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Ini nga duta para sa pinili nga mga pari, nga amo ang mga kaliwat ni Zadok, nga matinumanon nga nag-alagad sa akon kag wala nagbiya sa akon pareho sa ginhimo sang iban nga mga kaliwat ni Levi nga nag-upod sa mga Israelinhon nga nagbiya sa akon.
Kinahanglan nga indi gid nila ini pag-ibaligya ukon pag-ibaylo bisan gamay lang nga parte sini, kay amo ini ang labing maayo nga duta kag balaan ini para sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang nabilin nga duta nga ang kalabaon dose ka kilometro kag ang kasangkaron duha kag tunga ka kilometro para sa publiko. Puwede ini estaran sang mga tawo kag pahalban sang ila mga sapat. Sa tunga sini amo ang banwa
nga duha ka kilometro kuwadrado.
Napalibutan ini sang mahawan nga lugar nga 125 ka metros kuwadrado.
Sa guwa sang banwa may ara nga uma nga ang kalabaon lima ka kilometro pa-east kag lima man ka kilometro pa-west. Ara ini sa border sang balaan nga duta. Ang mga patubas sa sini nga duta para pagkaon sang mga nagaobra sa banwa.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magaobra sa banwa halin sa nagkalain-lain nga tribo sang Israel puwede makapanguma sa sini nga duta.
Gani ang bilog nga duta nga inyo ihatag sa Ginoo Ginoo bilang espesyal nga regalo, lakip na ang balaan nga duta kag ang banwa, dose ka kilometro kuwadrado.
Ang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Benjamin ara sa south sang duta sang pangulo, kag ang kasangkaron sini halin sa east hasta sa west sang Israel sang Israel .
Ang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Simeon ara sa south sang duta sang tribo ni tribo ni Benjamin, kag ang kasangkaron sini halin man sa east hasta sa west sang Israel sang Israel .
Ang border sang tribo ni tribo ni Gad sa south magasugod sa Tamar pakadto sa tuburan sang Meriba Kadesh
Amo ato ang mga duta nga batunon sang mga tribo sang Israel bilang ila nga palanublion. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
gani ang bilog nga kalabaon sang pader 9,000 ka metros. Kag halin sa sina nga tion ang siyudad pagatawgon, “Ang Ginoo Ginoo Ari Diri!”
Sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang paghari ni Jehoyakim sa Juda, ginsalakay ni Haring Nebucadnezar sang Babilonia kag sang iya mga soldado kag sang iya mga soldado ang Jerusalem.
Ginbihag niya si Haring Jehoyakim suno sa kabubut-on sang Ginoo. Ginpanguha man niya ang iban nga mga butang sa templo sang Dios kag gindala sa Babilonia.
Karon, nagsugo si Nebucadnezar kay Ashpenaz nga pangulo sang iya mga opisyal nga magpili sang pila ka pamatan-on halin sa mga bihag nga Israelinhon, nga naghalin sa harianon kag dungganon nga mga pamilya.
Ini sila kinahanglan gid nga mga guwapo, maayo sing lawas, maalam, maabtik kag madali lang tudluan, para bagay sila nga mag-alagad sa hari. Ginsugo man niya si Ashpenaz nga tudluan sila sang lingguahe kag balasahon sang taga-Babilonia.
Nagsugo pa gid ang hari nga hatagan sila kada adlaw sang iya mismo pagkaon kag ilimnon. Pagkatapos sang tatlo ka tuig, magaalagad na sila sa iya.
Upod sa mga ginpili nga halin sa tribo ni Juda amo sila ni Daniel, Hanania, Mishael, kag Azaria.
Gin-ilisan ni Ashpenaz ang ila mga ngalan. Si Daniel amo na si Belteshazar, si Hanania amo na si Shadrac, si Mishael amo na si Meshac, kag si Azaria amo na si Abednego.
Pero nagdesisyon si Daniel nga indi siya magkaon sang pagkaon sang hari ukon mag-inom sang iya ilimnon, para indi siya mahigkuan.
Ginbuot sang Dios nga magmaayo si Ashpenaz kay Daniel kag magsugot sa iya pangabay.
Pero nagsiling si Ashpenaz sa iya, “Nahadlok ako sa hari. Siya ang nagsiling kon ano ang ipakaon kag ipainom sa inyo, kag kon makita niya nga indi maayo ang inyo lawas kon ikomparar sa iban nga mga pamatan-on basi ipapatay niya ako.”
Nagsiling dayon si Daniel sa guwardya nga ginbutang ni Ashpenaz nga mag-atipan sa iya kag sa ila ni Hanania, Mishael, kag Azaria,
“Abi, testingi kami nga pakan-on lang sang utan kag paimnon lang sang tubig sa sulod sang napulo ka adlaw,
kag ipaanggid dayon kami sa iban nga mga pamatan-on nga nagakaon sang pagkaon sang hari. Kon ano ang imo makita nga resulta, bahala ka na kon ano ang gusto mo nga himuon sa amon.”
Gani nagsugot siya kag gintestingan sila sa sulod sang napulo ka adlaw.
Pagkatapos sang napulo ka adlaw, nakita nga mas maayo pa ang ila lawas kon ikomparar sa mga pamatan-on nga nagakaon sang pagkaon sang hari.
Gani ginpadayon na lang sang guwardya ang pagpakaon sa ila sang utan sa baylo sang pagkaon kag ilimnon sang hari.
Ginhatagan sang Dios ining apat ka pamatan-on sang kaalam labi na gid sa nagkalain-lain nga balasahon kag pagtulun-an. Wala labot sini, ginhatagan niya si Daniel sang kaalam sa pagpaathag sang mga palanan-awon kag mga damgo.
Pagkatapos sang tatlo ka tuig nga pagtudlo sa ila nga pagtudlo sa ila suno sa ginsiling ni Haring Nebucadnezar, gindala sila ni Ashpenaz sa iya.
Nagpakighambal ang hari sa ila, kag nakita sang hari nga sa tanan sa ila nga mga pamatan-on wala sing may makapareho sa ila ni Daniel, Hanania, Mishael, kag Azaria. Gani sila ang ginpili nga mag-alagad sa iya.
Sa tanan nga ginpamangkot sang hari sa ila, nakita niya nga ang ila kaalam napulo ka pilo sang sa kaalam sang mga madyikero ukon babaylan sa bilog niya nga ginharian.
Nagpadayon sa pag-alagad si Daniel kay Nebucadnezar kay Nebucadnezar hasta sa nahauna nga tuig sang paghari ni Cyrus.
Sang ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Nebucadnezar, kapila siya nagdamgo. Nakapalibog gid sa iya ang iya mga damgo gani indi siya makatulog.
Ginpatawag niya ang iya mga madyikero, babaylan, sorhano, kag mga manugpakot,
Pag-abot nila nagsiling ang hari sa ila, “Nagdamgo ako kag nakapalibog gid ini sa akon, gani ginpatawag ko kamo kay gusto ko mahibaluan kon ano ang kahulugan sang sadto nga damgo.”
Nagsabat ang mga manugpakot sa hari sa lingguahe nga Aramico,
Pero Pero nagsiling siya sa ila, “Amo ini ang akon desisyon: Kon indi ninyo mapakot kon ano ang akon damgo kag ang kahulugan sini, ipahiwa-hiwa ko ang inyo mga lawas kag ipaguba ang inyo mga balay.
Pero kon mapakot gani ninyo ang akon damgo kag mapaathag ang kahulugan sini, regaluhan ko kamo kag hatagan sang dako nga kadungganan. Sige, pakta na ninyo kag ipaathag dayon ang kahulugan.”
Nagsabat liwat sila sa hari, “Mahal nga Hari, sugiri na lang kami sang imo damgo kay ipaathag namon sa imo ang kahulugan.”
Nagsiling ang hari, “Nakahibalo ako nga ginapadugay-dugay lang ninyo ang oras kay nakahibalo kamo nga tumanon ko gid ang akon ginsiling sa inyo,
nga kon indi gani ninyo mapakot kag mapaathag ang akon damgo silutan ko gid kamo sadtong akon ginsiling. Nagsugtanay kamo nga magbutig sa akon kay nagapinsar kamo nga magbag-o pa ang situasyon. Pakta na ninyo kon ano ang akon damgo para mapati ako nga makahibalo gid kamo magpaathag sang kahulugan sini.”
Nagsabat sila sa hari, “Wala gid sing tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan nga makahimo sinang imo ginapangayo. Kag wala man sing hari, bisan ano pa siya ka gamhanan, nga nagasugo sa mga madyikero, babaylan, ukon manugpakot sa paghimo sang pareho sina.
Kabudlay gid sang imo ginapangayo, Mahal nga Hari. Ang mga dios lang gid ang makahimo sina, pero wala man sila nagapuyo upod sa mga tawo.”
Tungod sa ila ginsabat, puwerte gid ang kaakig sang hari. Kag nagmando siya nga pamatyon ang tanan nga maalamon
Sang ginpaguwa ang sugo nga ang mga maalamon pamatyon, ginpangita si Daniel kag ang iya mga kaupod para patyon man.
Dayon nagkadto si Daniel sa hari kag nagpangabay nga hatagan siya sang tion para mapaathag niya ang kahulugan sang damgo sini.
Nagsugot ang hari, gani Nagsugot ang hari, gani nagpuli dayon si Daniel kag ginsugiran niya ang iya mga kaupdanan nga sila ni Hanania, Mishael, kag Azaria parte sa natabo.
Ginsilingan sila ni Daniel nga magpangamuyo para kaluoyan sila sang Dios sang langit
Sadto nga gab-i, ginpahayag sang Dios kay Daniel ang damgo sang hari kag ang kahulugan sini paagi sa palanan-awon. Gindayaw dayon ni Daniel ang Dios sang langit.
dayawon ta siya hasta san-o.
Siya ang nagahatag sang kaalam sa mga maalamon.
siya kon ano ang ara sa kadulom.
sang kahulugan sang damgo sang hari.”
Dayon nagbalik si Daniel kay Arioc nga amo ang gintugyanan sang hari sa pagpatay sa maalamon nga mga tawo sa Babilonia. Nagsiling si Daniel sa iya, “Indi anay pagpatya ang maalamon nga mga tawo, kundi updi anay ako sa hari kay ipaathag ko sa iya ang kahulugan sang iya damgo.”
Gani dali-dali nga gindala ni Arioc si Daniel sa hari. Nagsiling si Arioc, “ Mahal nga Hari, Mahal nga Hari, may nakita ako nga bihag nga halin sa Juda nga makapaathag kon ano ang kahulugan sang imo damgo.”
Ginpamangkot sang hari si Daniel nga ginatawag man nga Belteshazar, “Masugid mo bala sa akon kon ano ang akon damgo kag mapaathag ang iya kahulugan?”
Nagsabat si Daniel, “ Mahal nga Hari, Mahal nga Hari, wala sing bisan sin-o nga maalamon, babaylan, madyikero, ukon manughimalad nga makapaathag sang imo damgo.
Pero may Dios sa langit nga nagapahayag sang mga tinago nga kamatuoran. Paagi sa imo damgo, Mahal nga Hari, ginpahibalo sang Dios sa imo kon ano ang matabo sa palaabuton. Karon, isugid ko sa imo ang mga palanan-awon nga nakita mo sa imo damgo.
“Samtang nagakatulog ka, Mahal nga Hari, nagdamgo ka parte sa matabo sa palaabuton. Ginpahibalo ina sa imo sang Dios nga nagapahayag sang mga tinago nga kamatuoran.
Kag ang imo damgo ginpahayag sa akon sang Dios, indi tungod nga mas maalam ako sang sa iban nga mga tawo, kundi para mapaathag ko sa imo kag maintiendihan mo kon ano ang kahulugan sang nag-abot sa imo hunahuna.
“ Ang imo damgo amo ini: Ang imo damgo amo ini: May nakita ka nga isa ka dako nga estatwa nga nagatindog sa imo atubangan. Puwerte ini kasilaw kag makahaladlok tan-awon.
Ang iya sini nga ulo puro nga bulawan kag ang iya dughan kag mga kamot pilak,
Ang iya mga batiis salsalon kag ang iya mga tiil salsalon kag tisa.
Kag samtang nagatan-aw ka sa estatwa, may isa ka bato nga gintiphag, pero indi tawo ang nagtiphag. Nagtupa ini nga bato sa salsalon kag tisa nga mga tiil sang estatwa, kag nadugmok ang iya mga tiil.
Sa gilayon nagkaladugmok ang salsalon, tisa, saway, pilak, kag bulawan. Kag nangin pareho na lang ini sang upa sa linasan nga ginapalid sang hangin kon diin-diin. Pero ang bato nga nagdugmok sa tiil sang estatwa nangin dako nga bukid kag naglikop sa bilog nga kalibutan.
“Amo ato ang imo damgo, kag amo ini ang iya kahulugan:
Mahal nga Hari, ikaw ang hari nga labaw sa tanan nga hari. Ginhimo ka nga hari sang Dios sang langit, kag ginhatagan ka niya sang gahom, kusog, kag kadungganan.
Ginpagamhan niya sa imo ang mga tawo, mga sapat, kag mga pispis, bisan diin man sila. Ikaw amo ang ginarepresentar sadtong bulawan nga ulo sang estatwa sang estatwa .
“Ang masunod sa imo nga ginharian indi pareho kagamhanan sa imo ginharian. Ang ikatatlo nga ginharian amo ang ginarepresentar sadtong saway nga parte sang estatwa, kag magagahom ini nga ginharian sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Kag ang sunod amo ang sunod amo ang ikaapat nga ginharian nga daw pareho sang salsalon. Kay subong nga ang salsalon makadugmok sang tanan, ini nga ginharian magadugmok sang iban nga mga ginharian.
Kag subong nga ang mga tiil sang estatwa sang estatwa salsalon kag tisa, ini nga ginharian matunga. Pero magapabilin ini nga mabakod, tungod kay nakita mo man nga ang mga tiil sang estatwa sang estatwa may lakot nga salsalon.
Ang salsalon kag tisa nga mga tudlo sang mga tiil nagakahulugan nga may parte sang sini nga ginharian nga mabakod kag may parte man nga maluya.
Ang pag-impon sang salsalon kag tisa nagakahulugan man nga magaisa ang mga hari sang sini nga ginharian ang mga hari sang sini nga ginharian paagi sa pag-inasawahay. Pero indi magdugay ang ila pag-isa, pareho bala sang salsalon kag tisa nga indi puwede mikslahon.
“Sa panahon sang sini nga mga hari, magatukod ang Dios sang langit sang isa ka ginharian nga indi gid malaglag hasta san-o. Indi gid ini madaog sang iban, kundi laglagon pa gani niya ang tanan nga ginharian kag magapabilin ini hasta san-o.
“Mahal nga Hari, nagpahayag ang gamhanan nga Dios sa imo kon ano ang matabo sa palaabuton. Amo ato ang imo damgo kag ang iya kahulugan. Matuod gid ang tanan ko nga ginsiling.”
Nagluhod dayon si Haring Nebucadnezar sa pagpadungog kay Daniel. Pagkatapos nagmando siya nga maghalad kag magsunog sang insenso kay Daniel.
Nagsiling siya kay Daniel, “Tungod sang imo pagsugid sang akon damgo kag pagpaathag sang iya kahulugan, matuod gid man nga ang imo Dios labaw sa tanan nga dios. Siya ang dapat kilalahon nga dapat kilalahon nga Ginoo sang mga hari. Kag siya gid lang gid lang ang makapahayag sang mga tinago nga kamatuoran.”
Ginhatagan dayon sang hari si Daniel sang madamo kag matahom nga mga regalo. Kag ginhatagan man niya siya sang mataas nga posisyon bilang manugdumala sang bilog nga probinsya sang Babilonia kag pangulo sang tanan nga maalamon didto.
Ginpangabay ni Daniel sa hari nga himuon sila ni Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego nga kabulig niya sa pagdumala sang probinsya sang Babilonia. Kag nagsugot man ang hari. Si Daniel ya nagpabilin didto sa palasyo sang hari.
Karon, nagpahimo si Nebucadnezar sang estatwa nga bulawan.
nagsinggit ang manugbalita, “Kamo nga naghalin sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, lahi, kag lingguahe,
kon mabatian na gani ninyo ang tunog sang budyong, plawta, kudyapi, arpa, kag iban pa nga mga instrumento, magluhod kamo dayon kag magsimba sa estatwa nga bulawan nga ginpatindog ni Haring Nebucadnezar.
Ang bisan sin-o nga indi magsimba ihaboy gilayon sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan.”
Gani pagkabati nila sang tunog sang mga instrumento nagluhod dayon sila kag nagsimba sa estatwa.
Sang sadto nga tion, may pila ka taga-Babilonia
Nagsiling sila kay Haring Nebucadnezar, “Kabay pa nga magkabuhi ka sing malawig, Mahal nga Hari.
Indi bala nga nagmando ka nga kon sin-o ang makabati sang tunog sang mga instrumento magluhod dayon kag magsimba sa estatwa nga bulawan,
kag ang indi magsimba ihaboy sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan?
Pero wala nagtuman sang imo sugo ang mga Judio nga sila ni Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego nga ginpadumala mo sa probinsya sang Babilonia. Wala sila nagaalagad sa imo mga dios, kag wala sila nagasimba sa estatwa nga bulawan nga imo ginpatindog.”
Pagkabati sadto sang hari puwerte gid ang iya kaakig. Ginpatawag niya dayon sila ni Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego.
Pag-abot nila Pag-abot nila ginpamangkot sila sang hari, “Matuod bala nga wala kamo nagaalagad sa akon mga dios kag wala kamo nagasimba sa estatwa nga bulawan nga akon ginpatindog?
Karon, ginamanduan ko kamo nga magsimba sa estatwa kon mabatian ninyo ang tunog sang mga instrumento. Kay kon indi gani, ihaboy kamo gilayon sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan. Tan-awon ta lang kon may dios nga makaluwas sa inyo.”
Nagsabat sila nga tatlo, “Mahal nga Hari, wala kami sing may masiling parte sina.
Kon amo gid man ina ang matabo luwason kami sang Dios nga amon ginaalagaran sa sina nga nagadabadaba nga hurnohan. Luwason kami sang Dios sa imo mga kamot.
Pero kon indi gid man niya kami pagluwason, gusto namon nga mahibaluan mo nga indi gid kami mag-alagad sa imo mga dios ukon magsimba sa estatwa nga bulawan nga imo ginpatindog.”
Tungod sa ila sabat puwerte gid ang kaakig sang hari sa ila, kag makita ini sa iya hitsura. Gani nagmando siya nga painiton pa gid sing pito ka pilo ang hurnohan.
Dayon nagsugo siya sang iya pinakamakusog nga mga soldado nga gapuson sila ni Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego kag ihaboy sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan.
Gani gin-gapos sila kag ginhaboy sa hurnohan nga may mga bayo pa.
Kag tungod nga ginpainit gid ang hurnohan suno sa mando sang hari, napatay ang mga soldado nga naghaboy sa ila tungod sa ibwal sang kalayo.
Kag sila nga tatlo nga nakagapos nagtupa sa nagadabadaba nga hurnohan.
Samtang nagatan-aw Samtang nagatan-aw si Haring Nebucadnezar gulpi siya nga tumindog sa puwerte nga katingala. Nagpamangkot siya sa iya mga opisyal, “Indi bala nga tatlo lang ka tawo ang aton gin-gapos kag ginhaboy sa kalayo?” Nagsabat sila, “Huo, Mahal nga Hari.”
Nagsiling dayon ang hari, “Tan-awa ninyo! Apat ang nakita ko nga nagalakat-lakat sa kalayo. Wala na sila nakagapos kag wala sila masunog. Ang isa sa ila daw isa ka dios.”
Gani, nagpalapit si Nebucadnezar sa puwertahan sang nagadabadaba nga hurnohan kag nagpanawag, “Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego, nga mga alagad sang Labing Mataas nga Dios, guwa kamo dira! Dali kamo diri!” Kag nagguwa sila nga tatlo.
Dayon nagtilipon sa ila ang mga gobernador, mga mayor, mga komisyoner, kag ang iban nga mga opisyal sang hari. Kag nakita nila nga wala sila maano sang kalayo. Bisan gani ang ila buhok ukon bayo wala gid masunog, kag bisan baho na lang sang aso wala gid.
Tungod sadto nagsiling ang hari, “Dayawon ang Dios nila ni Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego. Ginpadala niya ang iya anghel para luwason ang iya mga alagad nga nagsalig sa iya. Ini sila wala magsunod sa akon sugo nga magsimba sa estatwa nga magsimba sa estatwa , kundi ginpakamaayo pa nila nga ihaboy sila sa kalayo sang sa magsimba sa bisan sin-o nga dios luwas sa ila nga Dios.
Gani nagamando ako nga ang bisan sin-o nga tawo sang bisan ano man nga nasyon, lahi, ukon lingguahe nga maghambal sing malain kontra sa Dios nila ni Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego pagahiwa-hiwaon kag gub-on ang ila mga balay. Kay wala na gid sing iban pa nga Dios nga makaluwas pareho sini.”
Kag ginhatagan sang hari sila ni Shadrac, Meshac, kag Abednego sang mas mataas pa gid nga posisyon sa probinsya sang Babilonia.
“Kabay pa nga magmaayo gid ang inyo kahimtangan.
“Gusto ko nga sugiran kamo sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga ginhimo sa akon sang Labing Mataas nga Dios.
Ang iya paghari wala sing katapusan.
“Kon parte sa akon kahimtangan diri sa palasyo, maayo kag mauswagon ang akon kabuhi.
Pero may damgo ako nga nakapahadlok sa akon. Ang mga palanan-awon nga nakita ko samtang nagakatulog ako makahaladlok gid.
Gani nagmando ako nga dal-on sa akon ang tanan nga maalamon sa Babilonia para mapaathag nila sa akon ang kahulugan sang akon damgo.
Pag-abot sang mga madyikero, babaylan, manugpakot,
“Sang ulihi nagkadto si Daniel sa akon. (Gin-ngalanan siya Belteshazar nga amo ang ngalan sang akon dios. Kag ara sa iya ang espiritu sang balaan nga mga dios.
Siling ko, ‘Belteshazar, pangulo sang mga madyikero, nakahibalo ako nga ang espiritu sang mga dios ara sa imo, kag madali mo mahibaluan ang mga tinago nga kamatuoran. Abi ipaathag sa akon kon ano ang kahulugan sang mga palanan-awon nga nakita ko sa akon damgo.
Amo ini ang akon mga palanan-awon samtang nagakatulog ako: Nakita ko ang isa ka mataas gid nga kahoy sa tunga sang kalibutan.
Nagdako kag nagtaas pa gid ini hasta nakalambot sa langit kag makita bisan sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan.
Matahom ang iya mga dahon kag madamo ang iya mga bunga nga sarang makapakaon sa tanan. Nagpahandong ang mga sapat sa iya kag nagpugad ang mga pispis sa iya mga sanga. Didto nagkuha ang tanan nga tinuga sang ila pagkaon.’
“Kag nakita ko man ang isa ka anghel
Nagsinggit siya, ‘Tapsa ninyo ang kahoy kag pang-utda ang iya mga sanga. Panguhaa ang iya mga dahon kag ipanghaboy ang iya mga bunga. Tabuga man ninyo ang mga sapat nga nagapahandong dira kag ang mga pispis nga nagapugad sa iya mga sanga.
“ Ang tawo nga ginarepresentar sang sadto nga kahoy Ang tawo nga ginarepresentar sang sadto nga kahoy mabasa permi permi sang tun-og kag magakaon sang hilamon upod sang mga sapat.
Sa sulod sang pito ka tuig madulaan siya sang panghunahuna sang tawo, kag ang iya panghunahuna mangin iya sang sapat.
Amo ini ang sentensya nga ginsugid sang mga anghel, para mahibaluan sang tanan nga ang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga Dios may gahom sa mga ginharian sang mga tawo. Kag puwede niya sila ipasakop sa kay bisan sin-o nga gusto niya, bisan pa sa pinakakubos sa tanan nga tawo.
“Amo ato ang akon damgo. Gani ako, si Haring Nebucadnezar, nagsiling kay Belteshazar, ‘Sugiri ako sang kahulugan sini kay wala gid sing bisan isa sa mga maalamon sang akon ginharian nga makasugid sa akon sang kahulugan sini. Pero makasugid ka kay ang espiritu sang balaan nga mga dios
Natublag kag nahadlok gid si Daniel (nga ginatawag man nga Belteshazar) pagkabati niya sang ginsiling sang hari pagkabati niya sang ginsiling sang hari . Gani nagsiling ang hari sa iya, “Belteshazar, indi ka magkatublag sa akon damgo kag sa kahulugan sini.” Nagsabat si Belteshazar, “Mahal nga Hari, kuntani ang imo damgo kag ang iya kahulugan matabo sa imo mga kaaway kag indi sa imo.
Ang kahoy nga nakita mo nga nagdako kag nagtaas hasta nakalambot sa langit kag makita sa bisan diin nga parte sang kalibutan,
nga matahom ang iya mga dahon kag madamo ang iya mga bunga nga sarang makapakaon sa tanan, kag sa diin nagpahandong ang mga sapat kag nagpugad ang mga pispis sa iya mga sanga,
amo ikaw, Mahal nga Hari. Kay nangin gamhanan ka hasta nga ang imo pagkagamhanan nakalambot sa langit,
Nagsiling pa gid si Daniel, Nagsiling pa gid si Daniel, “Nakita mo man, Mahal nga Hari, ang isa ka anghel nga nagpanaog halin sa langit nga nagasinggit, ‘Tapsa ninyo ang kahoy pero pabay-i lang ninyo ang iya tuod dira sa latagon nga nahigtan sang salsalon kag saway. Pabay-i lang ninyo nga mabasa siya sang tun-og kag magakaon upod sang talunon nga mga sapat sa sulod sang pito ka tuig.’
“Mahal nga Hari, amo ini ang buot silingon sadto nga palanan-awon nga palanan-awon nga ginbuot sang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga Dios nga matabo sa imo:
Pagatabugon ka palayo sa mga tawo kag magapuyo ka upod sa talunon nga mga sapat. Magahalab ka sang hilamon pareho sang baka kag mabasa ka permi permi sang tun-og. Pagkatapos sang pito ka tuig, kilalahon mo nga ang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga Dios may gahom sa mga ginharian sang mga tawo kag puwede niya sila ipasakop sa kay bisan sin-o nga gusto niya.
Parte naman sadtong ginsiling sang anghel nga pabay-an lang ang tuod, ang buot silingon sadto nga ibalik sa imo ang imo ginharian kon kilalahon mo nga ang Dios amo gid ang nagahari sa tanan.
Gani, Mahal nga Hari, kabay pa nga batunon mo ining akon laygay sa imo: Mag-untat ka sa pagpakasala kag maghimo sang matarong, kag magmaluluy-on ka sa mga imol. Kon himuon mo ina basi pa lang nga magmauswagon gihapon ikaw.”
Ini tanan natabo matuod sa kabuhi ni Haring Nebucadnezar.
Samtang nagadayan-dayan si Haring Nebucadnezar sa atop sang iya palasyo sa Babilonia
nagsiling siya, “Daw ano ka gamhanan sang Babilonia nga akon ginhimo nga harianon nga puluy-an paagi sa akon kusog kag para sa akon kadungganan.”
Wala pa gani siya makatapos hambal, may tingog halin sa langit nga nagsiling, “Haring Nebucadnezar, pamatii ini: Ginabawi na sa imo ang awtoridad bilang hari.
Pagatabugon ka palayo sa mga tawo kag magapuyo ka upod sa talunon nga mga sapat. Magahalab ka sang hilamon pareho sang baka. Pagkatapos sang pito ka tuig, kilalahon mo nga ang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga Dios may gahom sa mga ginharian sang mga tawo kag puwede niya sila ipasakop sa kay bisan sin-o nga gusto niya.”
Sa gilayon natabo ini kay Nebucadnezar. Gintabog siya palayo sa mga tawo kag naghalab sang hilamon pareho sang baka. Nabasa permi permi ang iya lawas sang tun-og, kag naglaba ang iya balahibo pareho sang balahibo sang agila kag ang iya kuko pareho sang kuko sang pispis.
“ ‘Ang iya paghari wala sing katapusan.
Wala sing may makapugong ukon makapamalabag sa iya.’
“Sang magbalik na ang akon maayo nga panghunahuna ginbalik man sa akon ang akon dungog kag kadayawan bilang hari. Ginbaton ako liwat sang akon mga opisyal kag mga manuglaygay, kag nangin mas gamhanan pa ako sang sa una.
Gani karon ginadayaw ko kag ginapadunggan ang Hari sang langit, tungod kay husto kag matarong ang tanan niya nga ginahimo kag ginapaubos niya ang bisan sin-o nga nagapabugal.”
Kag samtang nagaininom sila sang bino, ginadayaw nila ang mga dios nga hinimo halin sa bulawan, pilak, saway, salsalon, kahoy, kag bato.
Sa hinali lang, may nakita ang hari nga kamot nga nagasulat sa dingding sang palasyo nga malapit sa suga.
Tungod sadto, nagpalangurog kag nagpalanglapsi ang hari sa kahadlok.
Pag-abot nila, Pag-abot nila, nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kon sin-o ang makabasa sinang nakasulat sa dingding kag makapaathag sang kahulugan sina, pabayuan ko sang harianon nga bayo kag pakulintasan sang bulawan. Kag mangin ikatatlo siya sa pinakamataas nga opisyal sang akon ginharian.”
Nagpalapit ang mga maalamon sa pagbasa sadtong nakasulat sa dingding. Pero indi nila mabasa ukon mapaathag sa hari ang kahulugan sini.
Gani hinadlukan na gid si Haring Belshazar kag nagdugang pa gid ang iya pagpalanglapsi. Naglibog man ang ulo sang iya dungganon nga mga tawo.
Karon, pagkabati sang rayna
kay may isa ka tawo sa imo ginharian nga ang espiritu sang balaan nga mga dios
Siya si Daniel nga gin-ngalanan sang imo amay nga Belteshazar. May pinasahi siya nga abilidad kag kaalam. Makahibalo siya magpaathag sang kahulugan sang mga damgo, magpakot sang mga paktakon,
Gani ginpatawag si Daniel. Kag sang nag-abot na siya, nagsiling ang hari sa iya, “Ikaw gali si Daniel nga isa sang mga bihag nga Judio nga gindala diri sang akon amay halin sa Juda?
Nakabati ako nga ang espiritu sang mga dios ara sa imo kag may pinasahi ka nga abilidad kag kaalam.
Ginpatawag ko na ang mga maalamon, pati ang mga babaylan para ipabasa kag ipaeksplikar sa ila ang kahulugan sinang nasulat sa dingding sa dingding , pero indi sila kahibalo.
Pero nabatian ko nga kahibalo ka maghatag sang interpretasyon, kag kahibalo ka man magsolbar sang mabudlay nga mga problema. Karon, kon mabasa mo inang nasulat kag mapaathag ang kahulugan sina, pabayuan ko ikaw sang harianon nga bayo kag pakulintasan sang bulawan. Kag himuon ko pa ikaw nga ikatatlo sa pinakamataas nga opisyal sang akon ginharian.”
Nagsabat si Daniel, “Sa imo na lang ina nga mga regalo, Mahal nga Hari, ukon ihatag na lang sa iban. Pero basahon ko gihapon para sa imo inang nakasulat sa dingding kag ipaathag kon ano ang kahulugan sina.
“Mahal nga Hari, ginhimo sang Labing Mataas nga Dios ang imo amay nga si Nebucadnezar nga hari. Nangin gamhanan siya kag ginpadunggan sang mga tawo sang mga tawo .
Tungod sa gahom nga ginhatag sang Dios sa iya, nahadlok ang mga tawo sa iya sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, lahi, kag lingguahe. Mahimo niya nga patyon ang bisan sin-o nga gusto niya nga patyon. Mahimo man niya nga indi pagpatyon ang bisan sin-o nga indi niya gusto nga patyon. Mapataas niya ang posisyon sang tawo nga gusto niya pataason; mapanubo man niya ang posisyon sang tawo nga gusto niya panubuon.
Pero tungod kay nagpabugal siya kag nagmatinaastaason, ginpahalin siya sa iya pagkahari
kag gintabog palayo sa mga tawo. Kag nangin pareho sang sapat ang iya panghunahuna. Nagpuyo siya upod sa talunon nga mga donkey kag naghalab sang hilamon pareho sang baka. Kag nabasa permi permi ang iya lawas sang tun-og. Amo ato ang iya situasyon hasta nga ginkilala niya nga ang Labing Mataas nga Dios may gahom sa mga ginharian sang mga tawo kag puwede niya sila ipasakop sa kay bisan sin-o nga gusto niya.
“Kag ikaw, Haring Haring Belshazar nga iya anak, bisan nahibaluan mo na ini tanan, wala ka gihapon nagpaubos sang imo kaugalingon,
kundi ginkabig mo ang imo kaugalingon nga labaw sa Ginoo sang langit. Ginpakuha mo ang mga ilimnan nga halin sa templo sang Dios kag gin-imnan ninyo ini sang imo dungganon nga mga bisita, mga asawa, kag iban pa nga mga asawa nga suluguon. Luwas pa sina, ginsimba mo ang mga dios nga hinimo halin sa pilak, bulawan, saway, salsalon, kahoy, kag bato—mga dios nga indi makakita, indi makabati, kag indi makaintiendi. Pero wala mo gindayaw ang Dios nga nagakapot sang imo kabuhi kag nagabuot sang tanan mo nga ginahimo.
“Ang Mene nagakahulugan nga naisip na sang Dios ang nabilin nga inadlaw sang imo paghari, tungod kay tapuson na niya ini.
“Ang Tekel nagakahulugan nga gintimbang-timbang ka sang Dios sang Dios , kag nasapwan nga nagkulang ka.
Pagkatapos hambal sini ni Daniel, Pagkatapos hambal sini ni Daniel, nagmando dayon si Belshazar nga pabayuan si Daniel sang harianon nga bayo kag pakulintasan sang bulawan. Ginproklamar dayon si Daniel nga ikatatlo nga pinakamataas nga opisyal sa ginharian sang Babilonia sang Babilonia .
Sang sadto mismo nga gab-i, ginpatay si Belshazar nga hari sang mga taga-Babilonia.
Ang nagbulos sa iya nga hari amo si Darius nga Medianhon, nga nagaedad sadto sing 62 ka tuig.
Karon, nagpili si Haring Haring Darius sang 120 ka gobernador sa pagdumala sa bilog niya nga ginharian.
Ini nga mga gobernador ginadumalahan sang tatlo ka administrador, nga ang isa sa ila amo si Daniel. Amo ini ang ginhimo para indi mabudlayan ang hari sa iya pagdumala.
Si Daniel amo ang labing maayo gid sa ila tanan tungod sa iya pinasahi nga abilidad, gani nagplano ang hari nga padumalahon niya si Daniel sa bilog niya nga ginharian.
Tungod sadto, ang duha niya ka kaupod nga administrador kag ang mga gobernador nagpangita sang sala sa pagdumala ni Daniel para may iakusar sila kontra sa iya. Pero wala gid sila sing may nakita nga sala tungod kay masaligan gid si Daniel kag maayo ang iya pagdumala.
Gani nagsiling sila, “Wala gid kita sing may iakusar kontra sa iya, luwas kon pangitaan ta siya sang sala nga may kaangtanan sa Kasuguan sang iya Dios.”
Gani nagkadto sila sa hari kag nagsiling, “Kabay pa nga magkabuhi ka sing malawig, Mahal nga Hari.
Kami nga mga administrador, mga mayor, mga gobernador, mga manuglaygay, kag mga komisyoner sang imo ginharian nagkasugot nga pangabayon ka nga maghimo sang isa ka sugo, nga sa sulod sang 30 ka adlaw wala gid sing may magpangamuyo sa kay bisan sin-o nga dios ukon tawo kundi sa imo lang. Kag dapat nga tumanon gid ini, kay ang bisan sin-o nga maglapas sang sini nga sugo ihaboy sa buho nga may mga leon.
Gani Mahal nga Hari, ipatuman ini nga kasuguan. Ipasulat na ini Ipasulat na ini kag pirmahe dayon para indi na gid ini maliwat ukon mabaliwala, suno sa kasuguan sang aton ginharian nga aton ginharian nga Media kag Persia.”
Nagsugot si Haring Darius, gani ginpirmahan niya ato nga kasuguan.
Sa ibabaw nga kuwarto sang balay ni Daniel, may mga bintana nga nagaatubang sa Jerusalem. Didto siya nagaluhod, nagapangamuyo kag nagapasalamat sa iya Dios sing tatlo ka beses sa isa ka adlaw, suno sa iya kinabatasan.
Pero ginbantayan siya sang mga opisyal nga nagakontra sa iya, kag nakita nila siya nga nagapangamuyo kag nagapangayo sang bulig sa Dios.
Gani nagkadto sila sa hari para isugid ang paglapas ni Daniel sa kasuguan. Nagsiling sila sa hari, “Indi bala, Mahal nga Hari, nga nagpirma ka sang kasuguan nga sa sulod sang 30 ka adlaw wala sing may magpangamuyo sa kay bisan sin-o nga dios ukon tawo kundi sa imo lang? Kag ang bisan sin-o nga maglapas sang sadto nga sugo ihulog sa buho nga may mga leon?” Nagsabat ang hari, “ Matuod ina, Matuod ina, kag suno sa kasuguan sang aton ginharian nga aton ginharian nga Media kag Persia, indi na gid ina puwede liwaton ukon dulaon.”
Dayon nagsiling sila sa hari, “Si Daniel nga isa sang mga bihag nga halin sa Juda wala nagatuman sa imo sugo. Nagapangamuyo siya sa iya Dios sing tatlo ka beses sa isa ka adlaw.”
Pagkabati sini sang hari, nabalaka gid siya. Gusto niya nga buligan si Daniel. Gani nagpangita siya sang paagi nga maluwas si Daniel, hasta nga nahapunan siya.
Nagtipon liwat liwat ang mga opisyal sa hari kag nagsiling, “Nakahibalo ka, Mahal nga Hari, nga suno sa kasuguan sang aton ginharian nga aton ginharian nga Media kag Persia, ang kasuguan nga gindeklarar sang hari indi na puwede liwaton.”
Gani ginpadakop sang hari si Daniel kag ginpahulog sa buho nga may mga leon. Nagsiling ang hari kay Daniel, “Kabay pa nga luwason ka sang imo Dios nga padayon mo nga ginaalagad.”
Dayon gintakpan sang isa ka dako nga bato ang buho nga ginhulugan kay Daniel nga ginhulugan kay Daniel , kag ginmarkahan ini sang hari sang iya singsing kag sang singsing sang iya dungganon nga mga tawo para wala sing may mag-abri sini.
Dayon nagpuli si Haring Darius sa palasyo. Wala siya nagkaon sadto nga gab-i kag wala man siya nagpangayo sang kalingawan. Kag wala siya makatulog.
Sang kaagahon, nagdali-dali kadto ang hari didto sa buho nga may mga leon.
Pag-abot niya didto, masinulub-on siya nga nagsinggit, “Daniel, alagad sang buhi nga Dios, ginluwas ka bala sa mga leon sang imo Dios nga padayon mo nga ginaalagad?”
Nagsabat si Daniel, “Kabay pa nga magkabuhi ka sing malawig, Mahal nga Hari.
Wala ako pag-anha sang mga leon tungod kay nagpadala ang akon Dios sang mga anghel kag ginkipot nila ang baba sang mga leon. Ginhimo ini sang Dios tungod kay nahibaluan niya nga matinlo ang akon kabuhi kag wala ako sing may nahimo nga malain kontra sa imo.”
Pagkabati sang hari, Pagkabati sang hari, nalipay gid siya kag nagsugo siya nga kuhaon si Daniel sa buho. Sang nakuha na si Daniel, wala gid sila sing may nakita nga bisan gamay gid lang nga pilas ukon bagras sa iya lawas, tungod kay nagsalig siya sa Dios.
Dayon nagmando ang hari nga ang tanan nga nag-akusar kay Daniel ihulog sa buho nga may mga leon pati ang ila mga asawa kag mga anak. Sang ginhulog na sila, Sang ginhulog na sila, wala pa gani sila makatupa sa idalom ginlumpatan na sila sang mga leon kag ginpanggus-ab.
“Kabay pa nga maayo gid ang inyo kahimtangan.
kag wala sing may makalaglag sini.
Ginluwas niya si Daniel sa mga leon.”
Nagmainuswagon si Daniel sang paghari ni Darius kag sang paghari ni Cyrus nga Persianhon.
Sang nahauna nga tuig sang paghari ni Belshazar sa Babilonia, nakakita si Daniel sang mga palanan-awon sa iya damgo. Amo ini ang damgo nga iya ginsulat:
Isa ka gab-i, may nakita ako sa akon palanan-awon nga isa ka malapad nga dagat nga ginahampas sang mabaskog nga hangin halin sa apat ka direksyon sang kalibutan.
Gulpi lang nagbutwa sa tubig ang apat ka sapat nga lain-lain ang hitsura.
Ang primero nga sapat daw leon, pero may pakpak sang agila. Samtang nagatan-aw ako, gin-utod ang iya pakpak. Ginpatindog siya nga daw sa tawo kag ginhatagan sang panghunahuna nga pareho sang tawo.
Ang ikaduha nga sapat daw bear. Nagatindog ini sa iya duha ka pangulihi nga tiil
Dayon nakita ko ang ikatatlo nga sapat nga daw leopard. May apat ini ka pakpak sa likod kag may apat ka ulo. Kag ginhatagan siya sang awtoridad sa pagdumala.
Sa sina man nga gab-i, nakita ko sa akon palanan-awon ang ikaapat nga sapat. Makahaladlok gid ini tan-awon kag makusog gid. May mga dalagko ini nga mga ngipon nga salsalon. Ginapang-it kag ginakaon niya ang iya mabiktima ang iya mabiktima , kag kon may mabilin pa, ginatasak-tasak niya. Lain siya sang sa tatlo ka sapat, kag may napulo siya ka sungay.
Samtang ginatulok ko ang mga sungay, nakita ko nga may nag-ulhot nga gamay nga sungay kag nagpungal sang tatlo ka sungay. Ini nga sungay may mata nga daw iya sang tawo kag may baba nga nagapabugal.
Dayon nakita ko nga may ginbutang nga mga trono, kag nagpungko sa iya trono sa iya trono ang Dios nga Dios nga nagakabuhi halin pa sang una. Masilaw ang iya bayo kag buhok tungod sa kaputi. Nagadabadaba ang iya trono nga may mga rueda.
Kag halin sa iya may nagailig nga kalayo. Linibo kag minilyon nga anghel ang nagaalagad sa iya. Handa na siya sa paghukom, gani ginbuksan ang mga libro nga basihan sang iya paghukom nga basihan sang iya paghukom .
Sige ang akon tan-aw samtang nagapabugal ato nga sungay hasta nga nakita ko nga ginpatay ang ikaapat nga sapat. Ginhaboy siya sa kalayo kag nasunog ang iya lawas.
Ang nabilin nga tatlo ka sapat ginbawian sang gahom, pero gintugutan sila nga magkabuhi sa malip-ot nga tion.
Dayon nakita ko ang daw sa anak sang tawo
Ginpadunggan siya kag ginhatagan sang awtoridad sa paghari, kag nag-alagad sa iya ang tanan nga tawo sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, lahi, kag lingguahe. Magapadayon ang iya paghari hasta san-o kag wala sing may makalaglag sini.
Natublag gid ako sa sadtong akon nakita.
Gani nagpalapit ako sa isa sa mga nagatindog didto kag nagpamangkot kon ano ang kahulugan sadtong akon nakita.
Siling niya, “Atong apat ka sapat nagakahulugan sang apat ka hari nga magahari sa kalibutan.
Pero ang mga balaan
Dayon ginpamangkot ko pa gid siya kon ano ang kahulugan sadtong ikaapat nga sapat nga lain gid sang sa tatlo ka sapat. Makahaladlok gid ato tan-awon, kag ang iya mga ngipon salsalon kag ang mga kuko saway. Ginapang-it kag ginakaon niya ang iya mabiktima, kag kon may mabilin pa, ginatasak-tasak niya.
Ginpamangkot ko man siya Ginpamangkot ko man siya kon ano ang kahulugan sadtong napulo ka sungay sang ikaapat nga sapat kag sang isa pa ka sungay nga nag-ulhot kag nagpungal sang tatlo ka sungay. Ini nga sungay may mga mata kag may baba nga nagapabugal, kag kon tan-awon mas gamhanan siya sang sa iban nga mga sungay.
Nakita ko ini nga sungay nga nagapakig-away sa mga balaan sang Dios, kag nagadaog siya.
Dayon nag-abot ang nagakabuhi halin pa sang una, ang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga Dios , kag naghukom siya pabor sa iya mga balaan. Kag nag-abot ang tion sang paghari sang mga balaan.
Karon, amo ini ang iya ginpaathag sa akon: “Ang ikaapat nga sapat amo ang ikaapat nga ginharian diri sa kalibutan nga lain sang sa iban nga mga ginharian. Salakayon niya kag laglagon ang bilog nga kalibutan.
Ang napulo ka sungay amo ang napulo ka hari nga magahari sa sadto nga ginharian. Magabulos sa ila ang isa ka hari nga lain sang sa ila, kag pierdihon niya ang tatlo ka hari.
Magahambal siya sang mga pulong nga kontra sa Labing Mataas nga Dios nga Dios , kag hingabuton niya ang mga balaan sang Dios. Tinguhaan niya nga liwaton ang mga piesta kag Kasuguan. Kag ipasakop sa iya ang mga balaan sang Dios sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig kag tunga.
Pero pagkatapos, pagahukman siya, kuhaon ang iya gahom, kag laglagon hasta san-o.
Dayon ihatag sa balaan nga katawhan sang Labing Mataas nga Dios nga Dios ang pagdumala kag paggahom sang mga ginharian sa bilog nga kalibutan. Gani magahari sila hasta san-o, kag ang tanan nga ginharian
Amo ato ang akon damgo. Natublag gid ako kag nagpalanglapsi sa kakulba sa kakulba . Pero wala ko gid ini ginsugid bisan kay sin-o.
Sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang paghari ni Belshazar, may palanan-awon liwat ako.
Sa akon palanan-awon nakita ko nga nagatindog ako sa higad sang Suba sang Ulai didto sa napaderan nga siyudad sang Susa, sa probinsya sang Elam.
Dayon may nakita ako nga isa ka lalaki nga karnero nga nagatindog sa higad sang suba. May duha siya ka malaba nga sungay. Pero sang ulihi naglaba pa gid ang isa ka sungay sang sa isa.
Nakita ko siya nga nagapanungay sa bisan diin nga lugar. Wala sing iban nga sapat nga makapugong sa iya, kag wala man sing may makapalagyo sa iya. Gani pagusto lang siya sa iya ginahimo kag nangin gamhanan siya.
Samtang ginatan-aw ko ato, gulpi lang nga may nag-abot nga kanding halin sa west. Naglibot ini sa kalibutan nga wala nagadapat ang iya mga tiil sa duta sa kadasigon sa kadasigon . May pinasahi siya nga sungay sa ulot sang iya mga mata.
Ginsalakay niya sang bug-os niya nga kusog ang lalaki nga karnero nga may duha ka sungay, nga nakita ko nga nagatindog sa higad sang suba.
Sa iya puwerte nga kaakig, wala niya pag-untati salakay ang karnero hasta nga napungal ang duha ka sungay sini. Indi na makabato ang karnero, gani natumba ini kag gintasak-tasak sang kanding. Wala gid sing may nakabulig sa iya.
Nangin gamhanan pa gid ang kanding. Pero sang puwerte na gid ang iya pagkagamhanan, napungal ang iya sungay. Pero gintubuan ini sang apat ka pinasahi nga mga sungay nga nagapuntirya sa apat ka direksyon sang kalibutan.
Ang isa sang apat gintubuan sang gamay nga sungay. Nangin gamhanan ini nga sungay sa south kag sa east kag sa matahom nga duta sang Israel sang Israel .
Ang iya pagkagamhanan naglambot hasta sa kalangitan kag ginpanghulog niya ang iban nga langitnon nga mga tinuga kag mga bituon, kag dayon gintasak-tasak niya.
Ginkabig niya ang iya kaugalingon nga mas gamhanan sang sa Pangulo sang langitnon nga mga tinuga.
Sa sini nga paglapas niya, ginpasakop sa iya ang langitnon nga mga tinuga kag ang adlaw-adlaw nga paghalad. Ginbaliwala niya ang kamatuoran, kag nagmadinalag-on siya sa iya mga ginhimo.
Dayon nabatian ko ang duha ka anghel nga nagaestoryahanay. Nagpamangkot ang isa ka anghel sa isa, “Ano ayhan kalawig ang katumanan sang palanan-awon parte sa pagpauntat sang pagpauntat sang adlaw-adlaw nga paghalad, sa paglapas sa templo nga mangin kabangdanan nga pabay-an ini, sa pagtugyan sa templo sa mga kaaway sa mga kaaway , kag sa pagtasak-tasak sang langitnon nga mga tinuga?”
Nagsabat sa iya ang isa ka anghel, “Matabo ini sa sulod sang 2,300 ka aga kag hapon
Samtang nagatan-aw ako sang sadto nga palanan-awon kag nagahunahuna kon ano ang iya kahulugan, gulpi lang nga may nagtindog sa akon atubangan nga daw sa tawo.
Dayon may nabatian ako nga tingog sang tawo halin sa Suba sang Ulai nga nagsiling, “Gabriel, ipaathag sa iya ang kahulugan sang palanan-awon nga iya nakita nga iya nakita .”
Sang nagpalapit si Gabriel sa akon, nagluhod ako sa kahadlok. Pero nagsiling siya, “Anak sang tawo,
Samtang nagapakighambal siya sa akon, nalipong ako nga nagahapa sa duta. Pero gin-uyatan niya ako kag ginpabangon.
Nagsiling siya, “Sugiran ko ikaw kon ano ang matabo sa palaabuton kon ipakita na sang Dios ang iya kaakig, kay gintalana na ina nga katapusan nga tion.
Atong karnero nga may duha ka sungay nagarepresentar sang mga ginharian sang Media kag Persia.
Atong kanding nagarepresentar sang ginharian sang Greece, kag ang dako nga sungay sa ulot sang iya mga mata nagarepresentar sang nahauna nga hari.
Ang apat ka sungay nga nagtubo sang mapungal ang nahauna nga sungay nagarepresentar sang apat ka ginharian sang Greece nga nagbinahin-bahin. Pero ang ila mga hari indi pareho kagamhanan sa hari nga nauna sa ila.
“Sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw sang paggahom sang sini nga mga hari, sa tion nga ang ila pagpakasala puwerte na gid, magahari ang isa ka mapintas kag madaya nga hari.
Mangin gamhanan siya, pero indi pareho kagamhanan sa hari nga nauna sa iya.
Tungod sa iya abilidad, mangin madinalag-on siya sa iya pagpangdaya. Magapabugal siya sang iya kaugalingon, kag madamo nga tawo ang pamatyon niya nga wala sing pulupaandam. Magabato pa gid siya sa Pangulo sang mga pangulo. Pero sa ulihi sa ulihi laglagon siya indi sa gahom sang tawo kundi sa gahom sang Dios kundi sa gahom sang Dios .
“ Daniel, Daniel, matuod gid ang ginsugid ko ko sa imo parte sa pagpauntat sang pagpauntat sang aga kag hapon
Pagkatapos sadto, Pagkatapos sadto, ako, si Daniel, nagpalangluya kag nagmasakit sing mga pila ka adlaw. Pag-ayo ko, nagbalik ako sa trabaho nga gintugyan sa akon sang hari. Pero sige gihapon ang akon palibog sadtong palanan-awon nga akon nakita nga akon nakita . Mabudlay ato intiendihon.
Tungod sadto, nagdangop ako sa Ginoong Dios sa pangamuyo. Nagpuasa ako, nagsuksok sang sako, kag nagbutang sang abo sa akon ulo.
“Ginoo, gamhanan ka kag makatilingala nga Dios. Matutom ka sa pagtuman sang imo promisa nga higugmaon mo ang nagahigugma sa imo kag nagatuman sang imo mga sugo.
Nakasala kami sa imo. Naghimo kami sang mga kalautan kag ginsikway namon ang imo mga sugo kag pagsulundan.
Wala kami namati sa imo mga alagad nga mga propeta nga ginsugo mo nga magpakighambal sa amon mga hari, mga pangulo, mga katigulangan, kag sa tanan nga katawhan sang Israel.
“Matarong ka gid, Ginoo, pero kami ya makahuluya bisan subong. Matuod ini Matuod ini sa tanan nga pumuluyo sang Juda kag Jerusalem, kag sa tanan nga Israelinhon nga ginlapta mo sa malapit kag sa malayo nga mga lugar tungod sang ila paglapas sa imo.
Makahuluya kami, Ginoo Ginoo , pati ang amon mga hari, mga pangulo, kag mga katigulangan, tungod nga nakasala kami sa imo.
Pero maluluy-on gihapon ikaw kag mapinatawaron bisan pa nga naglapas kami sa imo.
Wala kami nagtuman sa imo tungod wala kami nagsunod sa mga sugo nga ginhatag mo sa amon paagi sa imo mga alagad nga mga propeta.
Naglapas ang tanan nga Israelinhon sa imo mga sugo; indi nila luyag magtuman sa imo ginsiling. Kag tungod sang amon pagpakasala, nag-abot sa amon ang pagpakamalaot nga nasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises nga imo alagad.
Gintuman mo ang imo ginsiling kontra sa amon kag sa amon mga pangulo nga silutan mo kami sing puwerte gid. Gani wala gid sing natabo diri sa kalibutan pareho sang natabo sa Jerusalem.
Nag-abot ini nga silot sa amon suno sa nasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises. Pero Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios, bisan amo ini ang natabo sa amon wala gihapon kami nagtinguha sa paglipay sa imo paagi sa pagtalikod sa amon mga sala kag pagsapak sa imo kamatuoran.
Handa ka nga silutan kami; kag ginhimo mo na gani tungod kay husto ka sa tanan mo nga ginahimo. Pero sa gihapon wala kami nagtuman sa imo.
“O Ginoo nga amon Dios, ginpakita mo ang imo gahom paagi sa paghilway mo sa imo katawhan halin sa Egypt, kag tungod sini nangin bantog ka hasta subong. Ginaako namon nga nakasala kami kag naghimo sang kalautan.
Gani, Ginoo, suno sa imo husto nga ginahimo, nagapakitluoy ako nga kuhaon mo na ang imo kaakig sa Jerusalem, ang imo siyudad kag balaan
“Gani, O Dios, pamatii ang akon pangamuyo kag pagpakitluoy. Para mapadunggan ka Ginoo, patinduga liwat ang imo templo
O Dios, pamatii ako. Tan-awa ang amon makaluluoy nga kahimtangan kag ang pagkaguba sang imo siyudad nga sa diin ginakilala ka nga Dios nga Dios . Wala kami nagapangamuyo sa imo tungod kay matarong kami, kundi tungod kay nahibaluan namon nga maluluy-on ka gid.
Pamatii kami, Ginoo, kag patawara. Buligi kami sa gilayon para mapadunggan ka, kay ginakilala ka nga Dios sa imo siyudad kag sang imo katawhan.”
Padayon ako nga nagapangamuyo kag nagatuad sang akon mga sala kag sang sala sang akon mga kasimanwa nga mga Israelinhon. Nagapakitluoy ako sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios para sa iya balaan nga bukid.
Kag samtang nagapangamuyo ako, madasig nga naglupad pakadto sa akon si Gabriel nga nakita ko anay sa akon palanan-awon. Oras sadto sang pangsirom nga halad.
Ginpaintiendi niya ako, siling niya, “Daniel, nagkadto ako diri para paintiendihon ka parte sa propesiya parte sa propesiya .
Kay sang pagsugod mo pa lang pangamuyo may ginpahayag na ang Dios, kag nagkadto ako diri para isugid ini sa imo, tungod kay palangga ka sang Dios. Gani pamatian mo kag intiendihon ang ipaathag ko sa imo:
“Nagtalana sang 490 ka tuig
“Dapat mo mahibaluan kag maintiendihan nga halin sa tion sang pagmando nga patindugon liwat ang Jerusalem hasta sa pag-abot sang pangulo nga pinili sang Dios sang Dios , magaligad ang 49 ka tuig ka tuig .
Pagkatapos sang 434 ka tuig, ka tuig,
Ato nga hari magahimo sang mabakod nga kasugtanan sa madamo nga katawhan sa sulod sang pito ka tuig. Pero pagkaligad sang tatlo ka tuig kag tunga, pauntaton niya ang mga paghalad kag ibutang niya sa templo ang makangilil-ad nga butang nga mangin kabangdanan nga pabay-an ang templo ang templo . Magapabilin ini didto hasta nga mag-abot ang katapusan sang sina nga hari, suno sa gintalana sang Dios sang Dios .”
Sang ikatatlo nga tuig sang paghari ni Cyrus sa Persia, may ginpahayag nga mensahi kay Daniel, nga ginatawag man nga Belteshazar. Matuod ang mensahi, kag parte ini sa puwerte nga inaway. Ginpaintiendi ini kay Daniel sa isa ka palanan-awon.
Sadto nga tion, tatlo ka semana ang akon pagpangasubo.
Wala gid ako magkaon sang manamit nga pagkaon ukon karne, wala ako mag-inom sang bino, kag wala gid ako nagbutang sang pahamot sa akon lawas hasta matapos ang tatlo ka semana.
Sang ika-24 nga adlaw sang nahauna nga bulan, didto ako nagatindog sa higad sang dako nga Suba sang Tigris.
Kag didto may nakita ako nga daw sa daw sa tawo nga nagabayo sang linen, kag may wagkos sa iya hawak nga puro nga bulawan.
Ang iya lawas nagaidlak pareho sang isa ka malahalon nga bato. Ang iya nawong nagaigrab pareho sang kilat, kag ang iya mata nagasiga pareho sang suga. Ang iya mga kamot kag tiil nagaidlak nga daw sa ginpahining nga saway, kag ang iya tingog mabaskog gid mabaskog gid nga daw sa ginahod sang madamo nga tawo.
Ako lang gid ang nakakita sang sadto nga palanan-awon. Ang akon mga kaupod wala nakakita sini, pero ginkulbaan sila kag nagpalanago tungod sa kahadlok.
Gani ako lang gid isa ang nabilin nga nagatan-aw sa sadtong makatilingala nga palanan-awon. Nagpalanglapsi ako kag nagpalangluya.
Dayon nabatian ko nga naghambal ato nga tawo. Kag samtang nagahambal siya, nalipong ako kag natumba sa duta.
Dayon gin-uyatan niya ako kag ginbuligan nga makaluhod kag makapanukod samtang nagapalangurog ako.
Nagsiling siya, “Daniel, palangga ka sang Dios. Tindog ka kag magpamati sing maayo sa akon ihambal sa imo, kay ginpadala ako diri sang Dios sang Dios sa imo.” Sang paghambal niya sadto, nagtindog ako nga nagapalangurog.
Nagsiling siya dayon, “Daniel, indi ka magkahadlok. Kay sang nahauna pa lang nga adlaw sang imo pagpaubos sa Dios kag paghandom nga maintiendihan mo ang mga palanan-awon, ginsabat na sang Dios sang Dios ang imo pangamuyo. Gani nagkadto ako diri sa pagdala sang sabat sa imo pangamuyo.
Ugaling wala dayon ako makaabot diri, tungod kay sa sulod sang 21 ka adlaw ginsablagan ako sang pangulo
Karon, ari ako para ipaintiendi sa imo kon ano ang matabo sa imo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon sa palaabuton, kay ang imo palanan-awon parte sa matabo sa palaabuton.”
Samtang nagahambal siya sadto, nagluhod ako, kag indi ako makahambal.
Dayon, ini siya nga daw sa tawo, gintandog niya ang akon bibig kag sa liwat nakahambal ako. Nagsiling ako sa iya nga nagatindog sa akon atubangan, “Sir, lain gid ang akon pamatyag kag nagapalangluya ako tungod sadtong akon nakita nga palanan-awon.
Paano pa ako makapakighambal sa imo kay wala na ako sang kusog kag halos indi na ako makaginhawa?”
Gani gintandog niya liwat ako kag nagbalik ang akon kusog.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Ikaw nga palangga sang Dios, indi ka magkahadlok ukon magkabalaka. Magpakabaskog ka gid.” Sang paghambal niya sadto sa akon, nagbaskog ako. Dayon nagsiling ako sa iya, “Sir, padayuna ang imo paghambal kay ginpabaskog mo na ako.”
Nagsabat siya, “Kinahanglan nga magbalik ako sa pagpakig-away sa pangulo sang Persia. Paghalin ko sa sina nga pagpakig-away sa sina nga pagpakig-away , magaabot ang pangulo
Nagkadto ako para ipaathag sa imo kon ano ang nasulat sa Libro sang Kamatuoran. Sa akon nga pagpakig-away, wala sing iban nga nagabulig sa akon kundi si Micael gid lang, ang pangulo
Sadtong nahauna nga tuig sang paghari ni Darius nga Medianhon, ako ang nagbulig kag nagdepensa kay Micael.
“Karon, isugid ko na sa imo ang kamatuoran: May tatlo pa ka hari nga magahari sa Persia. Ang ikaapat nga hari nga magasunod sa ila nga tatlo mas manggaranon pa sang sa ila. Paagi sa iya manggad, mangin gamhanan siya, kag pagasulsulan niya ang iban nga mga ginharian nga magpakig-away kontra sa ginharian sang Greece.
Pagkatapos may isa ka gamhanan nga hari nga magaabot. Madamo nga nasyon ang iya pagasakupon, kag himuon niya ang gusto niya himuon.
Kon maggamhanan na gid siya, maguba ang iya ginharian kag matunga sa apat ka direksyon sang kalibutan, pero indi ang iya mga kaliwat ang magahari. Ang magabulos nga mga hari indi makadumala nga pareho sang iya pagdumala. Kuhaon matuod ang iya ginharian kag ihatag sa iban, indi sa iya mga kaliwat.
“Ang hari sa south
Pagkaligad sang pila ka tuig, magadampiganay ining duha ka ginharian. Tungod kay ipaasawa sang hari sa south ang iya anak nga babayi sa hari sa north.
“Sa ulihi, ang utod sang babayi mangin hari sang ginharian sa south sang ginharian sa south . Siya ang magabulos sa iya amay. Salakayon niya ang mga soldado sang hari sa north kag sudlon ang napaderan nga banwa
Dal-on niya pabalik sa Egypt ang mga imahen sang ila mga dios kag ang ila malahalon nga mga pagkabutang nga bulawan kag pilak. Sa sulod sang pila ka tuig, indi na siya magpakig-away sa hari sa north.
Pero sa ulihi salakayon siya sang hari sa north, pero mapierdi mapierdi ining hari sa north kag kag magapuli sa iya lugar.
“Magatipon sang madamo nga soldado ang mga anak sang hari sa north para magpreparar sa pagpakig-away. Ang isa sa ila magasalakay nga daw sa baha nga indi mapunggan. Magasalakay siya hasta sa napaderan nga banwa sang hari sa south.
Kag tungod sa kaakig sang hari sa south, magapakig-away siya sa hari sa north, kag pierdihon niya ang madamo nga soldado sini.
Tungod sang iya pagdaog, magapabugal siya kag madamo pa gid ang iya pamatyon, pero indi siya magapabilin nga madinalag-on.
Kay magatipon liwat ang hari sa north sang mas madamo pa gid nga mga soldado sang sa una. Kag pagkaligad sang pila ka tuig, magasalakay siya liwat kaupod sang iya madamo kag armado gid nga mga soldado.
“Sa sina nga panahon, madamo ang magakontra sa hari sa south. Isa na sa magakontra amo ang mga kapareho mo nga mga Israelinhon nga mapintas. Himuon nila ini bilang katumanan sang palanan-awon, pero mapierdi sila.
Dayon salakayon sang hari sa north ang isa ka napaderan nga banwa sang ginharian sa south sang ginharian sa south . Kibunon nila ini kag sudlon. Wala gid sang may mahimo ang mga soldado sang ginharian sa ginharian sa south pati na ang ila pinakamaayo nga mga soldado, tungod kay indi nila masarangan ang kaaway.
Gani himuon sang hari sa north ang bisan ano nga gusto niya nga himuon, kag wala gid sing may makapugong sa iya. Sakupon niya ang matahom nga duta sang Israel sang Israel , kag magapasakop ini sing bug-os sa iya nga gahom.
Determinado gid ang hari sa north nga magsalakay sa ginharian sa south sa ginharian sa south sa bug-os nga kusog sang iya ginharian. Pero magapakigdampig anay siya sa hari sa south paagi sa pagpaasawa sang iya anak sa hari, agod paagi sa iya anak malaglag ang ginharian sa south sa south . Pero indi magakontra ang babayi sa ginharian sa south sa ginharian sa south kag indi siya magaapin sa iya amay.
Gani ang mga banwa na lang anay nga malapit sa dagat ang salakayon sang hari sa north, kag madamo sa ila ang iya sakupon. Pero pauntaton sang isa ka pangulo ang iya pagpakahuya sa iban, kag sa baylo siya mismo amo ang mahuy-an.
Gani magapuli siya sa napaderan nga mga banwa sang iya nasyon. Pero mapierdi siya, kag amo na ato ang iya katapusan.
“Ang magabulos sa iya nga hari magasugo sang isa ka opisyal nga magapuwersa sa mga tawo nga magbayad sang buhis para sa dugang nga manggad sang iya ginharian. Pero sa indi madugay mapatay ang ini nga hari, pero indi sa inaway ukon tungod nga may naakig sa iya.
“Ang magabulos sa iya nga hari isa ka tawo nga talamayon, kag wala kuntani sang kinamatarong sa paghari. Sa wala gid ginalaumi sang mga tawo, gulpi lang nga pagaagawon niya ang paggahom sa ginharian paagi sa daya.
Madamo nga kaaway nga mga soldado ang iya pagalaglagon, kag patyon niya pati ang pangulo nga pari.
Magapakigdampig ang iban nga mga nasyon sa iya, pero sa ulihi dayaan niya sila. Mangin gamhanan siya bisan gamay lang ang iya ginharian.
Sa wala gid ginalaumi sang mga tawo, gulpi lang nga magasalakay siya sa mauswagon nga mga lugar sang isa ka probinsya. Himuon niya ang wala mahimo sadto sang iya mga katigulangan. Partidahon niya sa iya mga sumulunod ang mga butang nga maagaw niya sa inaway. Magaplano pa siya sa pagsalakay sa napaderan nga mga banwa, pero sa malip-ot lang nga tion.
“Kaupod sang madamo niya nga mga soldado, magapangisog siya sa pagpakig-away sa hari sa south. Pero magapakig-away sa iya ang hari sa south nga may madamo nga soldado nga armado gid. Mapierdi ang hari sa south tungod sa malain nga padihot sang iya mga kaaway kontra sa iya.
Laglagon siya sang iya mismo mga tinawo. Gani mapierdi ang iya mga soldado kag madamo sa ila ang magakalamatay.
“Magaayuhay ining duha ka hari pero pareho sila nga magabutig kag magahunahuna sang malain kontra sa isa kag isa. Indi magmadinalag-on ang ila katuyuan kontra sa isa kag isa. Kag magapadayon ang ila pag-inaway Kag magapadayon ang ila pag-inaway tungod kay wala pa mag-abot ang katapusan sa natalana nga tion.
Magapuli ang hari sa north sa iya lugar dala ang madamo nga pagkabutang nga nakuha niya sa inaway nga nakuha niya sa inaway . Pero sa wala pa siya makapuli, sa wala pa siya makapuli, hingabuton niya ang katawhan sang Dios kag ang ila relihiyon.
“Sa natalana nga tion, salakayon niya liwat ang ginharian sa ginharian sa south, pero ang matabo sa sina nga tion indi na pareho sang natabo sang una.
Kay salakayon siya sang mga barko nga halin sa west. Kag tungod sa kahadlok, magaatras siya kag magapuli. Ipaupok niya ang iya kaakig sa katawhan sang Dios kag sa ila relihiyon, pero mangin maayo siya sa mga nagsikway sang ila relihiyon.
“Suguon sang hari sa north ang iya mga soldado sa pagdagta sang napaderan nga templo. Pauntaton niya ang adlaw-adlaw nga paghalad kag ipabutang sa templo sa templo ang makangilil-ad nga butang nga mangin kabangdanan nga pabay-an ang templo ang templo .
Intuon niya ang mga nagsikway sang ila relihiyon sa paghimo sang mahigko nga mga butang. Pero magapangisog sa pagpamatok sa iya ang mga tawo nga nakakilala gid sa Dios.
“Ang mga nakaintiendi sang kamatuoran sang kamatuoran magatudlo sa madamo nga tawo, pero hingabuton sila sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw. Ang iban sa ila patyon sa espada ukon sunugon, kag ang iban bihagon ukon kuhaan sang mga pagkabutang.
Sa sina nga paghingabot sa ila, diutay lang ang magabulig sa ila, pero madamo nga tawo nga indi sinsero ang magaupod sa ila.
Hingabuton ang iban nga nakaintiendi sang kamatuoran sang kamatuoran para mangin putli ukon matinlo ang ila kabuhi hasta mag-abot ang katapusan, nga magaabot sa natalana nga tion.
“Himuon sang hari sa north sa north ang bisan ano nga luyag niya himuon. Kabigon niya ang iya kaugalingon nga labaw sa tanan nga dios, kag magapabugal siya kontra sa Dios nga labaw sa tanan nga dios. Magamadinalag-on siya hasta sa tion nga ipakita sang Dios ang iya kaakig, tungod kay kinahanglan gid nga matabo ang mga butang nga gintalana sang Dios nga matabo.
Salakayon niya ang pinakamabakod nga mga banwa sa bulig sang sadto nga dios nga indi kilala sang iya mga katigulangan. Padunggan niya ang mga tawo nga maayo sa iya paagi sa pagpadumala sa ila sa madamo nga katawhan. Kag hatagan niya sila sang duta bilang balos sa ila.
“Pag-abot sang katapusan, magapakig-away ang hari sa south sa hari sa north. Pero salakayon siya sang hari sa north nga may mga karwahe kag mga manugkabayo kag madamo nga barko. Ini siya magasalakay nga daw sa baha sa madamo nga nasyon kag panglaglagon niya sila.
Salakayon niya pati ang matahom nga duta sang Israel sang Israel , kag madamo nga tawo ang mapatay. Pero makapalagyo sa iya ang Edom, ang Moab, kag ang mga pangulo sang mga Ammonhon.
Madamo nga nasyon ang iya salakayon, isa na ang Egypt.
Mangin iya ang mga bulawan, mga pilak, kag ang tanan nga manggad sang Egypt. Sakupon niya ang taga-Libya kag taga-Ethiopia.
Pero may mga balita halin sa east kag north nga makapakulba sa iya. Gani magasalakay siya sa puwerte nga kaakig, kag madamo nga tawo ang iya pamatyon.
Magapatindog siya sang iya harianon nga tolda sa tunga-tunga sang dagat
Nagsiling pa ang daw sa tawo, Nagsiling pa ang daw sa tawo, “Sa sina nga tion,
Pagabanhawon ang madamo nga nagkalamatay. Ang iban sa ila magabaton sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan, pero ang iban pakamalauton kag pakahuy-an hasta san-o.
Atong mga nakaintiendi kag nagatudlo sa mga tawo nga magkabuhi sing matarong magasilak pareho sang mga bituon sa langit hasta san-o.
Pero Daniel, isira lang anay ini nga libro, kag indi lang anay pag-ipanugid ang mensahi sini hasta mag-abot ang katapusan. Samtang wala pa ini mapahayag, Samtang wala pa ini mapahayag, madamo ang magatinguha sa pag-intiendi sang mga nagakalatabo.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sadto, may nakita pa gid ako nga duha ka tawo nga nagatindog sa pihak kag pihak sang suba.
Wala ko naintiendihan ang iya sabat. Gani nagpamangkot ako sa iya, “Sir, ano gid bala ang mangin resulta sang sina nga mga hitabo?”
Nagsabat siya, “Daniel, maglakat ka na, kay ang sabat sa pamangkot mo magapabilin nga sekreto kag indi dapat ipanugid hasta mag-abot ang katapusan.
Madamo sa mga nakaintiendi sang kamatuoran sang kamatuoran ang pagatinluan ang ila kabuhi, kag makaintiendi sila sa mga butang nga ginsugid ko sa mga butang nga ginsugid ko . Pero ang mga malain magapadayon sa paghimo sang kalautan, kag indi sila makaintiendi sa mga butang nga ginsugid ko sa mga butang nga ginsugid ko .
“Magaligad ang 1,290 ka adlaw halin sa tion sang pagpauntat sang adlaw-adlaw nga paghalad kag pagbutang sang makangilil-ad nga butang nga mangin kabangdanan nga pabay-an ang templo hasta sa pag-abot sang katapusan ang templo hasta sa pag-abot sang katapusan .
Bulahan ang nagahulat kag nagapabilin hasta makaligad ang 1,335 ka adlaw.
“Kag ikaw Daniel, padayuna ang imo mga ginahimo. Mapatay ka, pero pagabanhawon ka sa katapusan nga mga inadlaw para mabaton mo ang balos nga gintigana para sa imo.”
Ini ang mensahi nga ginpahayag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Hoseas nga anak ni Beeri sang panahon nga naghari sa Juda si Uzia, dayon dayon si Jotam, si Ahaz, kag si Hezekia, kag sang panahon nga naghari sa Israel si Jeroboam nga anak ni Joash.
Ang una nga ginhambal sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Hoseas amo ini: “Magpangasawa ka sang babayi nga magapanginlalaki,
Gani ginpangasawa ni Hoseas si Gomer nga anak ni Diblaim. Sang ulihi nagbusong si Gomer. Kag sang natawo ang ila anak nga lalaki,
nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Hoseas, “Ngalani ang bata nga Jezreel,
Sa sina nga tion ipapierdi ko ang mga soldado sang Israel sa Kapatagan sang Jezreel.”
Nagbusong liwat si Gomer kag nagbata sing babayi. Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Hoseas, “Ngalani ang bata nga Lo Ruhama,
Pero kaluoyan ko ang katawhan sang Juda. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios, magaluwas sa ila paagi sa akon gahom kag indi paagi sa inaway—sa pana, sa espada, sa mga kabayo ukon sa mga manugkabayo.”
Sang malutas na ni Gomer ang iya bata nga si Lo Ruhama, nagbusong liwat siya kag nagbata sing lalaki.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Hoseas kay Hoseas , “Ngalani ang bata nga Lo Ami,
Pero magaabot ang tion nga kaluoyan ko sila kag pakamaayuhon kaluoyan ko sila kag pakamaayuhon ; mangin pareho sila kadamo sa balas sa baybayon nga indi masukob ukon maisip. Sa karon ginatawag sila nga, ‘Indi akon katawhan,’ pero sa ulihi pagatawgon sila nga, ‘Mga anak sang buhi nga Dios.’
Magaisa liwat ang mga katawhan sang Juda kag sang Israel, kag magapili sila sang isa ka pangulo. Magauswag sila liwat sa ila duta.
“Gani tawga ninyo ang inyo kapareho nga mga Israelinhon nga ‘Akon katawhan’
“Mga anak, sawaya ninyo ang inyo iloy bisan nga indi ko na siya asawa, kag indi na niya ako bana. Sawaya ninyo siya nga untaton na niya ang pagpanginlalaki.
Kon indi gani siya mag-untat ubahan ko siya kag mangin hublas siya pareho sang iya pagkatawo. Himuon ko siya nga pareho sang kamingawan ukon desierto, kag mapatay siya sa kauhaw.
“Gani kudalan ko siya sang tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy para indi siya makaguwa.
Lagson niya ang iya mga lalaki pero indi niya sila maabtan. Pangitaon niya sila pero indi niya makita. Dayon magasiling siya, ‘Mabalik na lang ako sa akon una nga bana, kay mas maayo pa ang akon kahimtangan sadto sang sa subong.’
“Wala niya ginahunahuna nga ako ang naghatag sa iya sang mga uyas, duga sang ubas, lana, kag sang madamo nga pilak kag bulawan nga ginhimo nila nga imahen ni imahen ni Baal.
Gani sa tion sang tig-alani bawion ko ang mga uyas kag duga sang ubas nga ginhatag ko. Kag bawion ko man ang mga tela nga delana kag linen nga ginhatag ko para itabon sa iya pagkahublas.
Kag karon ubahan ko siya sa atubangan sang iya mga lalaki, kag wala sing may makaluwas sa iya sa akon kamot.
Pauntaton ko na ang tanan niya nga mga selebrasyon, ang natalana nga mga tion sang pagsimba nga ginasaulog niya kada tuig, kada bulan, kag kada semana.
Pierdihon ko ang iya mga tanom nga ubas kag mga kahoy nga higera nga siling niya ginbayad sa iya sang iya mga lalaki. Himuon ko ang mga talamnan sini nga masiot nga kakahuyan, kag ang mga bunga sini kaunon sang talunon nga mga sapat.
Silutan ko siya tungod nga may mga tion nga nagasunog siya sang insenso sa mga imahen ni imahen ni Baal. Nagsuksok siya sang mga alahas kag naglagas sa iya mga lalaki, pero ako ya ginkalimtan niya. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Pero karon, dal-on ko siya sa kamingawan kag pangaluyagan liwat liwat hasta nga mapaluyag ko siya.
Paghalin namon didto ibalik ko sa iya ang iya mga talamnan sang ubas, kag himuon ko ang Kapatagan sang Acor
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga Israelinhon sa mga Israelinhon , “Sa sina nga tion nga magabalik kamo sa akon nga magabalik kamo sa akon , pagatawgon ninyo ako nga inyo bana, kag indi na ninyo ako pagatawgon nga inyo Baal.
Indi ko na gid kamo pagpamitlangon sang mga ngalan ni Baal.
Sa sina nga tion magahimo ako sang kasugtanan sa tanan nga klase sang sapat nga indi nila kamo pag-anhon nga indi nila kamo pag-anhon . Dulaon ko sa duta sang Israel ang mga armas sa inaway pareho sang mga armas sa inaway pareho sang pana kag espada. Kag tungod nga wala na sing inaway, magatulog kamo nga wala sing may ginakahadlukan nga katalagman.
“Kabigon ko kamo nga akon asawa hasta san-o. Himuon ko sa inyo ang matarong kag husto. Higugmaon ko kamo kag kaluoyan,
kag mangin matutom ako sa inyo. Gani kilalahon na gid ninyo ako nga Ginoo Ginoo .
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga sa sina nga adlaw sabton ko ang inyo pangamuyo. Paulanon ko para magtubo sa duta
ang mga uyas, ubas kag olibo para sa inyo nga ginatawag nga Jezreel.
Paestaron ko kamo sa inyo duta bilang akon katawhan. Ipakita ko ang akon kaluoy sa inyo nga ginatawag nga Lo Ruhama.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Ipakita liwat ang imo gugma sa imo asawa bisan pa nga nagapanginlalaki siya. Higugmaa siya pareho sang paghigugma ko sa katawhan sang Israel bisan pa nga nagasimba sila sa iban nga mga dios paagi sa paghalad sang mga tinapay nga may mga pasas.”
Gani ginbakal ko siya
Kag ginsilingan ko siya, “Magpuyo ka upod sa akon
Kay nagakahulugan ini nga nagakahulugan ini nga sa malawig nga tion magakabuhi ang katawhan sang Israel nga wala sing hari, opisyal, halad, handumanan nga bato, espesyal nga panapton
Pero sa ulihi magadangop sila liwat sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios kag sa ila hari nga kaliwat ni kaliwat ni David. Magapalapit sila sa Ginoo Ginoo nga may pagtahod tungod sa iya kaayo.
Kamo nga mga Israelinhon nga nagaestar sa duta sang Israel sang Israel , pamatii ninyo ining akusasyon sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa inyo: “Wala na sing tawo sa inyo duta nga matutom, nagahigugma, kag nagakilala sa akon.
Sa baylo, ang inyo ginahimo amo ang pagpakamalaot sa iban, pagbinutig, pagpamatay, pagpangawat kag pagpanginlalaki ukon pagpanginbabayi. Lapnag na ini bisan diin, kag nagasunod-sunod lang ang pagpinatyanay.
Tungod sini nagakamala ang inyo duta kag ang tanan nga nagaestar dira nagakalamatay, pati ang tanan nga tanan nga sapat—ang nagalakat, ang nagalupad kag ang nagalangoy.
“Pero wala sing basta-basta mag-akusar ukon magpasibangod sa kay bisan sin-o, kay kamo nga mga pari amo ang dapat akusaron.
Kamo kag ang mga propeta malaglag, adlaw man ukon gab-i. Kag laglagon ko man ang inyo mga iloy.
“Nagkalalaglag ang akon katawhan tungod kay kulang sila sa ihibalo parte sa akon parte sa akon . Kay kamo mismo nga mga pari nga mga pari ginsikway ninyo ang ihibalo parte sa akon, parte sa akon, gani isikway ko man kamo bilang akon mga pari. Ginkalimtan ninyo ang akon Kasuguan, gani kalimtan ko man ang inyo mga kabataan.
Samtang nagadamo kamo nga mga pari, nagadamo man ang inyo sala sa akon. Gani himuon ko nga makahuluya ang inyo ginapabugal.
Gusto ninyo nga magpakasala ang akon katawhan para makakaon kamo sang ila mga halad sa pagpakatinlo.
Gani subong nga silutan ko ang katawhan, silutan ko man kamo nga mga pari.
Nagakaon kamo matuod, pero indi kamo mabusog. Nagasimba kamo sa mga dios-dios
“Katawhan ko, ang bag-o kag ang daan nga bino nagakuha sang inyo maayo nga panghunahuna.
Nagapangayo kamo sang laygay sa inyo dios-dios nga inyo dios-dios nga kahoy. Kag suno sa inyo, nagasabat ini. Ginapatalang kamo sang espiritu nga nagatulod sa inyo sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios, gani gintalikdan ninyo ako pareho sang babayi nga nagpanginlalaki.
Nagahalad kamo kag nagasunog sang insenso sa putokputokan sang mga bukid, didto sa idalom sang mataas kag madabong nga mga kahoy, kay maayo ini pasilungan. Gani ang inyo mga anak nga dalaga nagapakighilawas kag ang inyo mga umagad nga babayi nagapanginlalaki.
Pero indi ko sila pagsilutan sa ila ginahimo kay kamo mismo nga mga lalaki nagapakighilawas man sa mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas sa templo, kag nagahalad pa kamo upod sa ila sang mga halad para sa mga dios-dios para sa mga dios-dios . Gani tungod nga kamo nga katawhan wala sing pag-intiendi parte sa kamatuoran parte sa kamatuoran , pagalaglagon kamo.
“Kag kamo nga mga taga-Juda, kamo nga mga taga-Juda, indi kamo magkadto sa Gilgal kag sa Bet Aven
Mga matig-a sing ulo ang mga taga-Israel, pareho sang tingkuyan nga babayi nga baka. Gani paano ko sila maatipan pareho sang mga karnero sa latagon?
Nabuyo na sila
Pagkatapos nila ininom, bira-bira sila pakighilawas. Ang ila mga manugdumala gusto gid nga maghimo sang makahuluya nga mga buluhaton.
Laglagon gid sila nga daw sa ginapalid sang mabaskog nga hangin, kag mahuy-an sila sa ila nga paghalad sa mga dios-dios sa mga dios-dios .”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo , Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pamati kamo, katawhan sang Israel, pati na kamo nga mga pari kag mga miyembro sang pamilya sang hari, kay ini nga paghukom kontra sa inyo: Daw pareho kamo sa siod, kay ginhalitan ninyo ang mga katawhan sang Mizpa kag sang Tabor.
Nagarebelde kamo sa akon kag nagatinguha gid sa pagpamatay,
Nahibaluan ko ang tanan parte sa inyo nga mga taga-Israel;
“Ang inyo mga binuhatan nagapugong sa inyo sa pagbalik sa akon nga inyo Dios. Kay ara sa inyo tagipusuon ang espiritu nga nagatulod sa inyo sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios, kag wala ninyo ako ginakilala nga Ginoo Ginoo .
Ang inyo pagkamatinaas-taason nagapamatuod nga dapat kamo silutan. Kag tungod sa inyo mga sala malaglag kamo nga mga taga-Israel kaupod ang mga taga-Juda.
Magahalad kamo sang mga karnero, kanding kag baka sa pagdangop sa akon, pero indi ninyo maeksperiensyahan ang akon presensya kay gintalikdan ko na kamo.
Ginluiban ninyo ako tungod kay ang inyo mga anak indi akon. Gani karon, laglagon ko kamo kag ang inyo mga duta sa isa lang ka bulan.
“Patunuga ang mga budyong kag mga trumpeta sa pagpaandam sa mga tawo sa pagpaandam sa mga tawo sa Gibea kag sa Rama! Ipabati ang singgit sang inaway sa Bet Aven! Magbantay kamo nga katawhan sang Benjamin!
Malaglag ang Israel sa adlaw sang pagsilot. Sigurado nga matabo ang akon ginasiling kontra sa mga tribo sang Israel!
Ang mga pangulo sang Juda pareho sa mga tawo nga nagapangbalhin sang mga muhon
Ginadaogdaog ang Israel kag ginalaglag tungod nga ginasilutan ko siya. Kay padayon gid siya nga nagasunod sa mga dios-dios.
Daw pareho ako sa sapat-sapat nga nagaut-ot sa Israel kag sa Juda.
“Sang makita sang Israel kag sang Juda ang ila indi maayo nga kahimtangan,
Kay salakayon ko ang Israel kag Juda pareho sang leon nga nagagus-ab sang iya biktima nga nagagus-ab sang iya biktima . Ako gid mismo ang magalaglag sa ila. Dal-on ko sila sa iban nga mga nasyon sa iban nga mga nasyon , kag wala sing may makaluwas sa ila.
Pagkatapos mabalik ako sa akon lugar, hasta nga akuon nila ang ila mga sala. Kag magadangop gid sila sa akon sa ila nga pag-antos.”
Naghambalanay ang mga Israelinhon, Naghambalanay ang mga Israelinhon, “Dali, mabalik na kita sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siya ang naglaglag sa aton kag siya man ang magabulig sa aton.
Daw pareho kita sa patay nga buhion niya gilayon. Sa indi madugay
Tinguhaan ta nga makilala ang Ginoo Ginoo . Magaabot siya kag sigurado gid ini pareho sang pagbutlak sang adlaw. Magaabot siya pareho sang ulan nga nagahatag sang tubig sa duta.”
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo , Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “ Mga katawhan sang Mga katawhan sang Israel
Amo gani nga ginapaandaman ko kamo paagi sa akon mga propeta nga malaglag kamo kag magakalamatay. Ipahayag ko gid ang akon paghukom pareho sang kilat kasanag.
Kay indi ang inyo mga inyo mga halad ang akon luyag kundi ang inyo inyo gugma.
Pareho kay Adan, ginbaliwala ninyo ang akon akon kasugtanan sa inyo sa inyo . Nagluib kamo sa akon dira sa inyo lugar sa inyo lugar .
Ang siyudad sang Gilead ginaestaran sang malain nga mga tawo pati sang mga manugpatay.
Ang inyo mga pari daw sa grupo sang mga tulisan nga nagabantay sang mabiktima. Nagapamatay sila sa dalan nga pakadto sa Shekem,
Mga taga-Israel, terible ang nakita ko sa inyo; nagasimba kamo sa mga dios-dios, gani nangin mahigko
“Gusto ko kuntani nga ibalik ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang akon katawhan.
Gusto ko kuntani nga ayuhon ang mga taga-Israel. Pero ang makita ko sa ila amo ang ila
Pero wala nila ginabutang sa ila hunahuna nga nadumduman ko ang tanan nila nga kalautan. Sa gihapon gapos sila sa ila mga sala kag nakita ko ini tanan.
“Napalipay nila ang ila ila hari kag mga opisyal sa ila kalautan kag kabutigan.
Tanan sila maluibon;
Kag samtang nagapalapit sila sa pagpatay sa hari kag sa iya mga opisyal sa pagpatay sa hari kag sa iya mga opisyal , daw pareho sa pugon ang kasingkal sang ila kaakig. Kay Kay sang nagahulat pa lang sila nga magsalakay, bilog nga gab-i ang pagpugong nila sang ila kaakig, kag pagkaaga nagasingkal ini nga daw sa kalayo.
Tanan sila nagasingkal gid sa kaakig pareho sang mainit nga pugon, gani ginpamatay nila ang ila mga manugdumala. Nalaglag ang tanan nila nga hari, pero wala gid sing bisan isa sa ila nga nagpangayo sang bulig sa akon.
“Nagapakigsimpon ang Israel
Ginakuha sang taga-iban nga mga nasyon ang ila ikasarang, pero wala nila ini matalupangdi. Pareho sila sa tigulang nga nagaputi na ang iya buhok pero wala niya matalupangdi.
Ang ila pagkamatinaas-taason nagapamatuod nga dapat sila silutan. Pero bisan pa nga nagakalatabo ini tanan sa ila, wala gihapon sila nagbalik kag nagdangop sa akon nga ila Dios.
Daw pareho sila sa pating; dali lang matunto kag wala sing pag-intiendi. Nagapangayo sila sang bulig sa Egypt, kag kon kaisa sa Assyria.
Pero samtang nagapakadto sila sa sini nga mga lugar sa sini nga mga lugar , tapnaon
Kaluluoy sila tungod kay nagpalayo sila sa akon. Laglagon ko sila tungod kay nagrebelde sila sa akon. Gusto ko kuntani nga luwason sila pero nagahambal sila sing binutig parte sa akon.
Indi sinsero ang ila pagpanawag sa akon. Samtang nagahibi sila sa ila mga katre sa pagpangayo sa mga dios-dios sang mga uyas kag duga sang ubas, ginapilasan nila ang ila lawas.
Gindisiplina ko sila para magbakod sila, pero nagplano pa sila sing malain kontra sa akon.
Nagadangop sila sa butang nga wala sing pulos.
“Patunuga ang budyong sa pagpaandam sa akon katawhan nga ang Israel nga ginakabig ko nga Israel nga ginakabig ko nga akon puluy-an
Nagapanawag sila sa akon nga nagasiling nga nagasiling , ‘Dios sang Israel, ginakilala ka namon.’
Pero ginsikway nila ang maayo, gani lagson sila sang ila kaaway.
Nagpili sila sang mga hari kag mga opisyal nga wala ko ginpili. Naghimo sila sang mga dios-dios halin sa ila mga pilak kag mga bulawan. Kag ini nga mga dios-dios Kag ini nga mga dios-dios amo ang nagdala sang kalaglagan sa ila.
Ang dios-dios nga baka sang Samaria ginhimo man lang sang platero nga taga-Israel. Indi ina Dios! Sigurado gid nga pagadugmukon ina.
“Pareho lang nga nagapanggas sila sang hangin kag nagaani sang buhawi.
Ang Israel daw sa ginlamon sang iban nga mga nasyon. Kag karon nga nagaimpon na siya sa ila, nangin pareho siya sa galamiton nga wala sing pulos.
Daw pareho siya sa maila nga donkey nga nagaisahanon kag nagatalang-talang. Nagpangayo siya sang bulig sa Assyria; nagbayad siya
Pero bisan nagpasakop siya sa sini nga mga nasyon, tipunon ko karon ang iya mga katawhan kag silutan kag silutan . Kag magasugod na ang ila pag-antos sa pagdaog-daog sa ila sang isa ka hari kag sang iya iya mga opisyal.
Matuod nga naghimo sila sang madamo nga halaran para sa mga halad sa pagpakatinlo, pero ini nga mga halaran nangin lugar nga sa diin sila nagapakasala.
Ginpasulat ko ang madamo nga kasuguan para sa ila, pero ginkabig nila ini nga para sa iban kag indi nga para sa ila.
Nagahalad sila sa akon kag ginakaon nila ang karne sang sapat nga ila ginahalad sang sapat nga ila ginahalad ,
Ginkalimtan nila nga mga taga-Israel ang nagtuga sa ila. Sila kag ang mga taga-Juda nagpatindog sang mga palasyo
Nagsiling si Hoseas, Nagsiling si Hoseas, “Kamo nga mga taga-Israel, untati ninyo ang inyo pagsinadya nga pareho sa ginahimo sang iban nga mga nasyon. Kay nagasimba kamo sa mga dios-dios
Pero sa ulihi mawad-an kamo sang mga uyas kag duga sang ubas.
Magahalin kamo sa Israel, ang Israel, ang duta sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag magabalik kamo
Indi na kamo pagtugutan nga maghalad sang bino sa Ginoo Ginoo . Ang inyo mga halad indi makapalipay sa iya. Ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sang sina nga mga halad kabigon nga mahigko, kay pareho lang ina sa pagkaon sa namatyan.
Tungod nga ang inyo mga halad indi pagbatunon sang Ginoo , Tungod nga ang inyo mga halad indi pagbatunon sang Ginoo Ginoo , ti ano ang inyo himuon sa pag-abot sang natalana nga mga piesta nga ginasaulog ninyo sa pagpadungog sa Ginoo Ginoo ?
Bisan makapalagyo pa kamo sa kalaglagan, tipunon gihapon kamo sa Egypt kag ilubong sa Memfis.
“Mga taga-Israel, nag-abot na ang tion nga silutan kamo, ang tion nga balusan kamo sa inyo mga ginhimo. Kag mahibaluan gid ninyo nga nag-abot na ini. Nagasiling kamo parte sa akon nga nga nag-abot na ini. Nagasiling kamo parte sa akon nga , ‘Ina nga propeta buang-buang! Ina siya nga ginagamhan sang espiritu malain sing ulo!’ Amo ina ang ginasiling ninyo sa akon Amo ina ang ginasiling ninyo sa akon tungod kay madamo na ang inyo sala kag akig gid kamo sa akon.
Bilang propeta, ginaupdan ako sang akon Dios sa pagbantay sa inyo nga mga taga-Israel. Pero bisan diin ako makadto gusto ninyo ako nga halitan; daw pareho ako sa pispis nga gusto ninyo siuron. Akig ang mga tawo sa akon sa Israel, nga ginakabig sa Israel, nga ginakabig sang akon Dios nga iya puluy-an.
Puwerte na gid kamo kalaot, pareho sang una sa mga lalaki sa Gibea.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Mga taga-Israel, sang ginpili
Mga taga-Israel, ang inyo pagkagamhanan madula nga daw sa pispis nga naglupad. Indi na makabusong kag makapamata ang inyo mga babayi ang inyo mga babayi .
Bisan pa nga makapamata sila, kuhaon ko ang tanan nila nga bata kag magapangasubo kamo. Kaluluoy gid kamo kon bayaan ko na kamo.
“Ang pagtan-aw ko sadto sa inyo daw pareho sa mga kahoy nga palma nga natanom sa maayo nga duta.
Nagsiling si Hoseas, Nagsiling si Hoseas, “ Ginoo Ginoo , amo ini ang himua sa imo katawhan: Indi pagtuguti nga makabata ukon makapatiti sang lapsag ang ila mga babayi.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ang tanan nga kalautan sang akon katawhan nagsugod sa Gilgal. Didto pa lang ginkaugtan ko na sila. Kag tungod sang ila kalautan pahalinon ko sila sa Israel nga ginakabig ko nga Israel nga ginakabig ko nga akon puluy-an. Indi ko na sila paghigugmaon; ang tanan nila nga mga pangulo nagrebelde sa akon.
Pareho sila sa tanom nga ang gamot sini nalaya, gani wala nagapamunga. Bisan magpamata pa sila, patyon ko ang pinalangga nila nga mga bata.”
Nagsiling si Hoseas, Nagsiling si Hoseas, “Sikwayon sang akon Dios ang mga taga-Israel tungod kay wala sila magtuman sa iya. Gani bisan diin na lang sila nga nasyon makadto.”
“Ang mga taga-Israel pareho sa tanom nga ubas nga madabong kag madamo sing bunga. Samtang nagauswag sila madamo man ang ila ginapatindog nga mga halaran, kag ginapatahom nila ang handumanan nga mga bato nga ila ginasimba.
Mga madaya sila,
Sigurado nga masiling sila sa ulihi: Wala kami sing hari tungod kay wala kami nagtahod sa Ginoo Ginoo . Pero bisan may hari pa kami, wala man siya sing may mahimo nga maayo para sa amon.
Sagi man lang sila
“Mahadlok ang mga pumuluyo sang Samaria tungod nga madula ang mga dios-dios nga madula ang mga dios-dios nga babayi nga mga baka sa Bet Aven. Sila kag ang ila mga pari nga nagakalipay sa katahom sang sini nga mga dios-dios magapangasubo gid tungod kuhaon ini sa ila
kag dal-on sa Assyria bilang regalo sa gamhanan nga hari. Mahuy-an ang Israel sa iya nga pagsalig sa kahoy nga mga dios-dios.
Malaglag kag mawala ang iya
Pagagub-on ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar sang Aven,
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kamo nga katawhan sang Israel nagapadayon sa pagpakasala halin pa sang tion nga nagpakasala ang inyo mga katigulangan nga nagpakasala ang inyo mga katigulangan sa Gibea. Wala gid kamo nagbaylo. Gani kamo nga mga kaliwat sang mga malain salakayon sa Gibea.
Sa akon kagustuhan silutan ko kamo. Magatingob ang mga nasyon sa pagsilot sa inyo
Sadto anay nagapatawhay-tawhay lang kamo; Sadto anay nagapatawhay-tawhay lang kamo; pareho kamo sa bataon nga babayi nga baka nga nahanas sa paglinas kag naluyag sa sini nga trabaho. Pero subong pabudlayan ko kamo nga mga taga-Israel
Nagsiling ako sa inyo, Nagsiling ako sa inyo, ‘Pahumuka ang inyo tagipusuon pareho sang duta nga gin-arado. Magtanom kamo sang pagkamatarong kag mag-ani sang paghigugma. Kay tion na ini nga magdangop kamo sa akon hasta nga mag-abot ako, kag padal-an ko kamo sang kaluwasan
“Pero nagtanom kamo sang kalautan, gani nag-ani man kamo sang kalautan. Nagbutig kamo, kag ina bunga sang inyo kalautan. Kag tungod kay nagsalig kamo sa inyo ikasarang, pareho abi sa inyo madamo nga soldado,
magaabot ang inaway sa inyo mga katawhan kag magakalaguba ang inyo napaderan nga mga banwa. Himuon sang inyo mga kaaway ang pareho sang ginhimo ni Shalman
Amo man sina ang matabo sa inyo nga mga taga-Betel tungod nga puwerte ang inyo kalautan. Sa kaagahon, sigurado gid nga mapatay ang hari sang Israel.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sang pareho pa ang Israel sa isa ka bata,
Pero karon, bisan sige ang tawag ko
Ako ang nag-atipan sa ila; daw pareho lang nga ang nag-atipan sa ila; daw pareho lang nga gin-uyatan ko sila
Gintuytuyan ko sila nga may pagpalangga pareho sang pagpalangga sang isa ka tawo sa iya nga baka. Daw pareho lang nga ginkuha ko ang gota sa ila liog kag nagduko sa pagpakaon sa ila.
Pero tungod nga indi nila gusto nga magbalik sa akon, sigurado nga magabalik sila sa Egypt, kag pagadumalahan sila sang Assyria.
Salakayon sang mga kaaway ang ila mga banwa kag gub-on ang mga trangka sang mga puwertahan sini. Gub-on sang ila mga kaaway ang ila mga plano.
Sila nga akon katawhan desidido nga magpalayo sa akon. Gani bisan magpanawag pa sila sing tingob sa akon indi ko sila pagluwason.
“Mga taga-Israel, indi ko mahimo nga sikwayon kamo ukon pabay-an na lang. Indi ko mahimo nga laglagon kamo sing bug-os nga laglagon kamo sing bug-os pareho sang ginhimo ko sa mga banwa sang mga banwa sang Adma kag Zeboyim. Indi maagwanta sang akon balatyagon nga himuon ini sa inyo. Naluoy gid ako sa inyo.
Indi ko na pag-ipakita ang akon puwerte nga kaakig; indi ko na paggub-on ang Israel, kay Dios ako kag indi tawo. Ako ang Balaan nga Dios nga kaupod ninyo, kag indi ako magkadto sa inyo nga akig.
“Magasunod kamo sa akon sa tion nga magangurob ako pareho sang leon. Sigurado gid nga magangurob ako, kag magadali-dali
Magaabot kamo sing madasig
Permi lang ako ginabutigan kag ginatunto sang mga taga-Israel. Ang mga taga-Juda padayon nga nagapalayo sa Dios nga balaan kag matutom.
Ang mga taga-Israel
May akusasyon man ang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa mga taga-Juda nga mga kaliwat man ni Jacob. Silutan niya sila suno sa ila mga pamatasan; balusan niya sila suno sa ila mga hinimuan.
Sang ara pa lang ang ila katigulangan nga ang ila katigulangan nga si Jacob sa tiyan sang iya iloy, gusto na niya nga labawan ang iya kapid.
paagi sa pagpakigdumog sa isa ka anghel,
Siya ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom; Ginoo Ginoo ang iya bantog nga ngalan.
Gani kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob, magbalik na kamo sa inyo Dios, kag ipakita ninyo ang gugma kag ang hustisya. Kag padayon kamo nga magsalig sa inyo Dios.
Mahilig mangdaya ang inyo mga negosyante; nagagamit sila sang indi husto nga kilohan.
Nagapabugal pa kamo nga mga taga-Israel, “Nakatipon kami sang manggad kag puwerte na kami ka manggaranon. Wala sing may makaakusar sa amon nga nakatipon kami sang manggad sa malain nga paagi, kay kay sala ina nga buluhaton.”
“Gani ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt, magapaestar liwat sa inyo sa mga payag, pareho sang ginahimo ninyo sa panahon sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag.
“Nagpakighambal ako sa mga propeta kag ginhatagan ko sila sang madamo nga palanan-awon. Paagi sa ila ginpaandaman ko kamo nga malaglag kamo.”
Pero sa gihapon ang katawhan sang Gilead mga malain kag wala gid sing pulos, kag ang katawhan sang Gilgal nagahalad sang mga turo nga baka sa mga dios-dios sa mga dios-dios . Sigurado gid nga pagagub-on ang ila mga halaran kag mangin pareho ini sa mga tinumpok nga mga bato nga ginpanguha sa gin-arado nga duta.
Nagpalagyo si Jacob sa Aram,
Paagi sa isa ka propeta, ginpaguwa sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga Israelinhon sa Egypt kag gin-atipan.
Pero ginpaakig gid nila ang ila Ginoo tungod sang ila pagpamatay, gani silutan niya sila. Balusan niya sila sang ila pagpakamalaot sa iya sa iya .
Sang una kon maghambal na gani ang tribo sang Efraim nagakurog sa kahadlok ang iban nga mga tribo sang Israel, kag ginadayaw nila siya. Pero nakasala ang iya katawhan tungod sang ila pagsimba kay Baal. Amo gani nga nagkalamatay
Karon, kamo nga ginatawag Efraim nga ginatawag Efraim
Gani madula kamo pareho sang ambon ukon tun-og sa kaagahon, ukon pareho sang upa sa linasan nga ginapalid sang hangin ukon sang aso nga nagaguwa sa simboryo.
“Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios nga nagpaguwa sa inyo nga nagpaguwa sa inyo sa Egypt.
Gin-atipan ko kamo sa desierto, sa mamala gid nga lugar.
Pero sang ginpakamaayo ko kamo kag nag-uswag kamo, nangin bugalon kamo kag ginkalimtan na ninyo ako.
Laglagon ko kamo nga mga taga-Israel, tungod kay kontra ninyo ako nga inyo manugbulig.
Ti diin na ang inyo hari kag ang mga pangulo sang inyo mga banwa nga magaluwas sa inyo? Ginpangayo ninyo sila sa akon,
gani sa akon kaakig ginhatag ko sila sa inyo, kag sa akon man kaugot ginkuha ko sila.
“May kahigayunan kamo nga magkabuhi liwat liwat . Pero tungod kay wala kamo sing pag-intiendi, ginabaliwala ninyo ini ginabaliwala ninyo ini . Pareho kamo sa bata nga indi gusto magguwa sa tiyan sa tion nga inugguwa na niya.
“Indi ko gid kamo pagkaluoyan.
Bisan pa nga mas mauswagon kamo sang sa inyo mga kadugo, laglagon ko kamo laglagon ko kamo . Ipadala ko ang mainit nga hangin halin sa desierto sa east kag magakalahubas ang inyo mga tuburan kag mga bubon. Kag pagaagawon ang inyo malahalon nga mga pagkabutang.
Dapat nga silutan ang mga taga-Samaria tungod sang ila nga pagrebelde sa akon nga ila nga Dios. Magakalamatay sila sa inaway. Pagadugmukon ang ila magagmay nga mga bata, kag pagaririan ang tiyan sang ila nagabulusong nga mga babayi.”
Nagsiling si Hoseas, Nagsiling si Hoseas, “Mga taga-Israel, magbalik kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kay nalaglag kamo tungod sang inyo mga sala.
Magbalik kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo kag magsiling sa iya, ‘ Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , patawara ang tanan namon nga mga sala kag batuna kami suno sa imo kaayo, para makahalad kami sa imo sang mga pagdayaw halin sa amon mga bibig.
Indi na kami magpangayo sang bulig sa Assyria kag indi na kami magsalig sa mga kabayo nga para sa inaway. Indi na man namon pagtawgon nga amon Dios ang mga dios-dios nga mga dios-dios nga amon ginhimo. Kay ginakaluoyan mo kami nga pareho sa mga ilo.’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Pagaayuhon ko ang akon katawhan sa ila pagkamalinapason, kag higugmaon ko sila sing kinabubut-on. Kay nadula na ang akon kaakig sa ila.
Pakamaayuhon ko ang Pakamaayuhon ko ang mga taga-Israel; mangin pareho ako sa tun-og nga nagahatag sang tubig sa mga tanom nga nagahatag sang tubig sa mga tanom . Magauswag Magauswag sila pareho sang lily nga nagapamulak. Magabakod Magabakod sila pareho sang kahoy nga sedro sa kahoy nga sedro sa Lebanon nga ang iya gamot madalom.
Magadamo Magadamo sila pareho sang mga sanga nga nagapanalingsing. Mangin dungganon Mangin dungganon sila pareho sang kahoy nga olibo nga matahom kag sang kahoy nga sedro sang kahoy nga sedro sang Lebanon nga mahamot.
Sa liwat magapuyo sila nga ginaprotektaran ko. Magauswag Magauswag sila pareho sang uhay nga nagalambo,
“Mga taga-Israel,
Kabay pa nga ang may pag-intiendi sa inyo makahibalo kag makaintiendi sang mga nasulat diri. Husto gid ang mga pamaagi sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ginasunod ini sang mga matarong, pero nangin kasandaran ini sa mga malinapason.
Amo ini ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya ginpahayag kay Joel nga anak ni Petuel.
Kamo nga mga manugdumala sang Juda kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, pamatii ninyo ining isugid ko sa inyo. Wala pa sing may natabo nga pareho sini sang panahon sang inyo mga katigulangan ukon sang inyo panahon subong.
Kinahanglan nga isugid ini sa kada henerasyon sang inyo mga kaliwat:
Sunod-sunod nga nagsalakay ang mga panong sang mga apan. Ang nabilin nga mga tanom nga wala maubos sang isa ka panong ginkaon naman sang masunod nga panong hasta nga nagkalaubos ang mga tanom.
Kamo nga mga palahubog, bangon kamo kag maghibi sing tudo! Kay wala na kamo sing mainom; wala na sing mga ubas nga hilimuon nga mga ubas nga hilimuon nga bag-o nga bino.
Kay ang duta sang Ginoo Ginoo
Ginpamierde nila ang mga tanom nga ubas sang Ginoo Ginoo kag ang iya mga kahoy nga higera.
Maghibi kamo pareho sang isa ka dalaga
Kay Kay wala na sing mga uyas kag mga bino nga ihalad sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo ; amo gani nga amo gani nga nagapangasubo ang mga pari nga nagaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagkalapierdi ang kaumahan kag daw sa tawo ini nga nagapangasubo. Nagkalapierdi ang mga uyas kag wala na sang duga sang ubas kag lana.
Kamo nga mga mangunguma, magkasubo
Kag nalaya ang mga tanom nga ubas kag ang tanan nga kahoy pati na ang mga higera, pomegranata, palma, kag mansanas. Matuod gid man nga nadula ang kalipay sang mga tawo.
Kamo nga mga pari nga nagaalagad sa halaran sang akon Dios, magsuksok kamo sang sako kag magkadto sa templo kag maghibi sa bilog nga gab-i. Kay wala na sing mga uyas kag mga bino nga ihalad sa templo sang inyo Dios.
Hambali ninyo ang mga manugdumala sang Juda kag ang tanan nga pumuluyo sini, nga magtipon sila tanan sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag magpuasa. Magpangayo sila sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo .
Abaw, malapit na ang adlaw nga magapanglaglag ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Nakita ta mismo kon paano kita nawad-an sang pagkaon kag kon paano nadula ang kasadya sa templo sang Dios.
Nagkalamatay ang mga binhi sa duta.
Nagaugayong ang mga kasapatan sa kagutom sa kagutom . Nagadalang-dalang ang mga baka kay wala na sila sing halalbon; pati ang mga karnero nagaantos.
Nagpangamuyo si Joel. Siling niya, Nagpangamuyo si Joel. Siling niya, “Nagapanawag ako sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo , kay nagkalalaya ang mga palahalban kag ang tanan nga kahoy sa kaumahan nga daw sa ginlamon sang kalayo.
Bisan ang talunon nga mga sapat nagahulat sang imo bulig, kay mala na gid ang mga suba kag mga sapa, kag nagkalalaya ang mga palahalban nga daw sa ginlamon sang kalayo.”
Patunuga ninyo ang budyong sa pagpaandam sa mga tawo sa mga tawo sa Zion,
Madulom kag magal-om ang ina nga adlaw. Ang terible nga mga apan
Sunod-sunod nga nagsalakay ang mga apan nga daw sa kalayo.
Daw sa kabayo ang ila hitsura kag nagasibad sila pareho sa mga kabayo nga pang-inaway.
Ang gahod sang ila paglukso-lukso sa ibabaw sang mga bukid daw pareho sang nagadalagan nga karwahe ukon ginasunog nga dagami. Daw pareho sila sa gamhanan nga mga soldado nga handa na sa pagpakig-away.
Ang mga tawo nga makakita sa ila mahadlukan kag magapalanglapsi.
Ginasalakay nila ang siyudad kag ginataklas ang pader sini. Ginasaka nila ang mga balay kag nagasulod sila sa mga bintana pareho sang kawatan.
Nagauyog ang kalibutan kag ang kalangitan sa ila nga pag-abot. Kag nagadulom ang adlaw kag ang bulan kag wala na nagasiga ang mga bituon.
Nagamando ang Ginoo Ginoo sa sining mga apan nga sining mga apan nga iya mga soldado, kag nagatuman sila sa iya nga sugo. Terible ini nga mga apan kag puwerte kadamo. Makahaladlok gid ang adlaw nga magasilot ang Ginoo Ginoo ; wala gid sing may makaagwanta sini.
Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga tion na ini nga magbalik kamo sa iya nga hugot gid sa inyo tagipusuon, nga nagapuasa kag nagapangasubo nga may paghibi.
Maghinulsol kamo sing tinagipusuon kag indi nga pakita-kita lang nga paghinulsol paagi sa paggisi sang inyo mga bayo. Magbalik kamo sa Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, kay maluluy-on siya kag mabinalak-on. Mahigugmaon siya kag indi dali mangakig. Handa siya nga magbaylo sang iya hunahuna nga indi na magpadala sang kalaglagan.
Basi pa lang magbaylo ang hunahuna sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag pakamaayuhon niya ang inyo mga patubas ang inyo mga patubas , para makahalad na kamo sa iya sang mga uyas kag bino.
Patunuga ninyo ang budyong sa Zion sa pagpahibalo sa mga tawo nga magtipon sila kag magpuasa.
Himua ninyo ang seremonya sa pagpakatinlo kag magtipon kamo tanan, bata man ukon tigulang. Pati mga lapsag dal-on man, kag ang bag-o ginkasal mag-intra man.
Ang mga pari nga nagaalagad sa Ginoo Ginoo maghibi sa tunga-tunga sang halaran kag sang balkon sang templo, kag magpangamuyo sila sang pareho sini: “ Ginoo Ginoo , kaluoyi ang katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan. Indi pagtuguti nga pakahuy-an sila kag yagutaon
Nagakabalaka gid ang Ginoo Ginoo sa iya duta, kag naluoy siya sa iya katawhan.
Kag bilang sabat sa ila pangamuyo magasiling siya sa ila, “Hatagan ko kamo sang mga uyas, duga sang ubas, kag lana; kag maayawan gid kamo. Indi ko na pagtugutan nga pakahuy-an kamo sang iban nga mga nasyon.
Makatilingala gid ang mga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi dapat magkahadlok ang duta sang Juda sang Juda , kundi magkasadya ini kay makatilingala gid ang mga ginhimo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Indi man dapat magkahadlok ang mga sapat, kay nagadabong na ang mga palahalban sa kamingawan kag nagapamunga na ang mga kahoy pati ang higera. Nagapamunga na man ang mga ubas.
Kamo nga katawhan sang Zion, magkalipay kamo sa ginhimo sa inyo sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Kay ginhatagan niya kamo sang nahauna nga ulan sa pagpakita nga matarong siya.
Mapuno sang mga uyas ang mga linasan kag magaawas ang duga sang ubas kag ang lana sa mga pulugaan sini.
Kay nagasiling ang Ginoo , Kay nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ibalik ko ang mga nagkalapierdi sa inyo sadtong mga tinuig nga ginsalakay ang inyo mga tanom sang sunod-sunod nga mga panong sang mga apan. Ako ang nagpadala sa inyo sining madamo nga apan nga akon mga soldado.
Karon magadamo na ang inyo kalan-on kag mabusog gid kamo. Kag tungod sini, pagadayawon ninyo ako nga inyo Dios, nga naghimo sang makatilingala nga mga butang sa inyo. Kag kamo nga akon katawhan indi na gid mahuy-an hasta san-o.
Dayon mahibaluan ninyo nga ara ako sa inyo nga mga taga-Israel, kag ako lang ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios kag wala na sing iban pa. Kag kamo nga akon katawhan indi na gid mahuy-an hasta san-o.
“Kag sa ulihi ihatag ko ang akon Espiritu sa tanan nga klase sang tawo. Ang inyo mga anak nga lalaki kag babayi magasugid sang akon mga mensahi. Ang inyo tigulang nga mga lalaki padamguhon ko ko . Ang inyo pamatan-on nga mga lalaki makakita sang mga palanan-awon.
Sa sina nga mga inadlaw, ihatag ko man ang akon Espiritu sa mga ulipon
Magapakita ako sang mga makatilingala nga mga butang sa langit kag sa duta: May makita nga May makita nga dugo, kalayo kag madamol nga aso.
Magadulom ang adlaw, kag ang bulan magapula pareho sang dugo. Ini matabo sa wala pa mag-abot ang makatilingala gid nga adlaw sang paghukom sang paghukom sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga magdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo maluwas. Kay suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo , may mabilin nga mga Israelinhon sa Bukid sang Zion, ang Jerusalem. Ini sila ginpili sang Ginoo Ginoo nga maluwas.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sa sina nga tion nga ibalik ko ang maayo nga kahimtangan sang Juda kag Jerusalem,
tipunon ko ang mga nasyon kag padulhugon ko sila sa Kapatagan ni Jehoshafat.
Gin-gabot-gabutan nila ang akon katawhan para partidahon para partidahon , kag ginbaligya nila nga mga ulipon ang mga bata nga lalaki kag babayi, para ibayad nila sa ilimnon kag sa mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas.
“Kamo nga mga katawhan sang Tyre, Sidon, kag sang tanan nga lugar sang Filistia, ano ining ginahimo ninyo kontra sa akon?
Kay ginkuha ninyo ang akon malahalon nga mga pagkabutang,
Ginbaligya ninyo sa mga Griego ang katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem bilang mga ulipon bilang mga ulipon , para mapalayo ninyo sila sa ila kaugalingon nga duta.
Pero buligan ko sila nga makahalin sa mga lugar nga ginbaligyaan ninyo sa ila, kag pagahimuon ko sa inyo ang inyo ginhimo sa ila sa ila .
Ibaligya ko ang inyo mga anak sa katawhan sang Juda, kag ibaligya nila sila sa mga taga-Saba,
Ipahibalo ini sa mga nasyon: Magpreparar kamo sa pagpakig-away. Hangkata ninyo ang inyo mga soldado nga magsalakay.
Himua ninyo nga mga espada ang inyo mga tagad kag himua ninyo nga mga bangkaw ang inyo mga inughagbas. Bisan ang mga maluya kinahanglan nga magpakig-away.
Dali, palapit kamo, tanan kamo nga mga nasyon sa palibot. Kag magtipon kamo didto sa Kapatagan ni Jehoshafat sa Kapatagan ni Jehoshafat . Ginoo Ginoo , padulhuga na didto didto ang imo mga soldado!
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kinahanglan nga mahangkat ang mga nasyon sa palibot sa pagkadto sa Kapatagan ni Jehoshafat, kay hukman ko sila didto.
Daw pareho sila sa alanihon nga dapat garabon na tungod kay luto na, ukon daw pareho sa ubas nga dapat pugaon na tungod kay puno na sang ubas ang pulugaan. Masyado na sila kalaot; ang ila mga sala daw pareho sa duga sang ubas nga nagaawas sa suludlan sini.”
Puwerte kadamo sang tawo nga nagaginahod sa Kapatagan sang Paghukom, kay malapit na mag-abot dira ang adlaw sang pagsilot sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Magadulom ang adlaw kag ang bulan, kag indi na magsiga ang mga bituon.
Magangurob ang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa Zion;
Mga taga-Juda, Mga taga-Juda, mahibaluan ninyo nga ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios, nagapuyo sa Zion, ang akon balaan nga bukid. Kag sa liwat sa liwat mangin balaan ang Jerusalem; indi na gid ini liwat pagsalakayon sang taga-iban nga mga nasyon.
Sa sina nga tion pakamaayuhon ko kamo pakamaayuhon ko kamo . Mangin bugana ang inyo bag-o nga bino halin sa madamo nga ubas halin sa madamo nga ubas sa kabukiran. Mangin bugana man ang inyo gatas halin sa madamo nga baka kag kanding nga nagahalab halin sa madamo nga baka kag kanding nga nagahalab sa mga bulobukid. Indi gid mamalhan ang inyo mga sapa. Kag magailig ang tuburan halin sa templo sang Ginoo Ginoo kag magapatubig ini sa hubas nga hubas nga ililigan sang tubig nga may mga acacia.
“Ang Egypt mangin mamingaw nga lugar kag ang Edom mangin desierto tungod kay ginpintasan nila ang katawhan sang Juda; ginpamatay nila ang mga inosente.
Pero ang Juda kag ang Jerusalem pagaestaran hasta san-o.
Magabalos ako para sa mga ginpamatay sa akon katawhan; silutan ko gid ang naghimo sini sa ila.
Amo ini ang mensahi ni Amos nga taga-Tekoa nga manugbantay sang mga karnero. Ini nga mensahi parte sa Israel. Kag ginpahayag ini sa iya sang Dios duha ka tuig antes matabo ang linog, sadtong panahon nga si Uzia amo ang hari sang Juda kag si Jeroboam nga anak ni Joash amo ang hari sang Israel.
Nagsiling si Amos, “Nagangurob ang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa Zion;
nga may mga ulounto nga salsalon.
kag ang mabakod nga mga parte sang Damascus nga ginpahimo sang iya anak nga si Haring sang iya anak nga si Haring Ben Hadad.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
kag ginbaligya nga ulipon sa Edom.
kag ang mabakod nga mga parte sang sini nga siyudad.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.”
Kag wala nila pagtumana ang ila kasugtanan sa sini nga mga tawo bilang mag-abyan.
kag ang mabakod nga mga parte sang sini nga siyudad.”
Indi gid madula ang ila kaakig sa mga Israelinhon.
Gani pagasunugon ko ang Teman kag ang mabakod nga mga parte sang Bozra.”
para lang nga maglapad ang ila nga duta.
nga nagahagunos pareho sang bagyo.
Kay ginsunog nila ang mga tul-an sang hari sang Edom hasta nga nangin abo ini.
Mapatay ang mga taga-Moab samtang nagasininggit kag nagapatunog sang mga budyong ang ila kaaway nga nagasalakay sa ila.
Ginpatalang sila sang ila pag-alagad sa ila pag-alagad sa mga dios-dios nga gin-alagad man sang ila mga katigulangan.
Gani pagasunugon ko ang Juda pati ang mabakod nga mga parte sang Jerusalem.”
Ginahimo nila ini sa mga imol bisan ang ila utang ahaw isa ka paris nga sandalyas.
Tungod sini ginapakahuy-an nila ang akon balaan nga ngalan.
Kag nagaininom sila sa akon templo sang bino nga bilang bayad sang mga imol sang mga imol sa ila nga ila nga utang.
Ginpanglaglag ko sila hasta nga wala sing may nabilin sa ila.
para makuha nila ang duta sang mga Amornon.
Indi bala nga matuod ini, mga taga-Israel?
kag ginmanduan ninyo ang mga propeta nga indi sila magsugid sang akon mensahi.
Pabug-atan ko kamo pareho sang karo nga puno sang patubas.
kag ang mga soldado indi makaluwas sang ila kaugalingon.
kag ang mga manugkabayo indi makaluwas sang ila kaugalingon.
Kamo nga mga taga-Israel, nga ang inyo mga katigulangan ang inyo mga katigulangan ginpaguwa sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Egypt, pamatii ninyo ining ginasiling niya kontra sa inyo:
Gani pagasilutan ko gid kamo tungod sa tanan ninyo nga mga sala.”
kon wala anay sila magsugtanay?
kon wala man lang siya sing may nadakpan?
kon wala ini sing may nasiod?
indi bala ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang nagpadala sini?
kon indi niya anay ini mapahayag sa iya mga alagad nga mga propeta.
kon ang Ginoong Dios Dios na ang magpahambal sa iya?
kag ang pagpaantos sa mga pumuluyo sini.
ang maluwas sa inyo amo lang ang mga parte sang inyo matahom nga mga katre.”
Nagasiling ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang Dios nga Makagagahom, “Pamatii ninyo ining ihambal ko kag isugid ninyo ini sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob:
kag magakalahulog ini sa duta.
Gani pamatii ninyo ining
nga bihagon kamo sang inyo mga kaaway pareho sang pagbunit sang isda.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
kag magdala kamo sang inyo ikanapulo kada tatlo ka adlaw.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoong Dios Dios , ang nagasiling sini.
pero ang iban ya nagakamalhan.
Kag tungod nga himuon ko ini, magpreparar kamo sa pag-atubang sa akon nga inyo Dios.”
Ang iya ngalan amo ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga Makagagahom.
Katawhan sang Israel, pamatii ninyo ining masubo nga panalambiton parte sa inyo:
kag wala na gid sing may magpabangon sa iya.
na lang ang mabilin.
kamo nga katawhan sang Israel, para mabuhi kamo.
Kay sigurado gid nga pagabihagon ang katawhan sang Gilgal, kag ang Betel mawala.
Gani malaglag ang Betel kag wala sing may makatapna sini.
kag ginabaliwala ninyo ang matarong.”
Ang iya ngalan amo ang Ginoo Ginoo .
kag ginaguba niya ang napaderan nga siyudad.
kag nagasugid sing matuod sa korte.
kag indi kamo makainom sang bino halin sa gintanom ninyo nga mga ubas.
Wala ninyo ginahatagan sang hustisya ang mga imol sa korte.
ang mga tawo nga nakaintiendi sang kabubut-on sang Dios sang kabubut-on sang Dios nagahipos na lang.
pareho sang ginasiling ninyo.
sa mga magakalabilin sa inyo nga mga kaliwat ni Jose.
upod sa mga tawo nga sinuhulan nga maghibi.
Indi kamo maghunahuna nga adlaw ina nga maluwas kamo
ginkagat ini sang man-og.
daw pareho ini sa kadulom nga wala gid sing bisan diutay nga kasanag.
wala gid ako malipay sa sinang inyo mga pagtilipon.
indi ko ina pagbatunon.
Indi ako luyag nga magpamati sang sunata sang inyo mga arpa.
indi ninyo ini pag-untati pareho sang suba nga wala untat ang pag-ilig.
ako bala ang ila ginhalaran sang ila mga halad? Indi! Indi!
Ginhimo ninyo ini nga mga imahen para simbahon.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ginatawag Dios nga Makagagahom.
kag sa inyo nagadangop ang inyo mga pumuluyo.
kag mas malapad pa ang ila duta sang sa inyo?
nga magahari ang paghalit.
kag sang pinatambok nga bata sang baka.
kag mahilig maghimo sang mga sunata paagi sa mga instrumento,
pero wala nagakasubo sa palaabuton nga kalaglagan sang inyo nasyon.
kag matapos na ang inyo mga piesta kag pagpatawhay.
Gani itugyan ko sa kaaway ang ila siyudad kag ang tanan nga ara dira.”
Kon may napulo ka tawo nga mabilin sa isa ka balay, sila tanan tanan mapatay man man .
Ang bangkay sang isa nga napatay kuhaon sang iya paryente para sunugon. Kag mamangkot siya sa nagapanago
gagmay man ini ukon dalagko.
kag ang matarong ginhimo ninyo nga malain.
kag nagasiling kamo, “Napierdi ta sila paagi sa aton kaugalingon nga kusog.”
pakadto sa ililigan sang tubig sang Araba.”
Amo ini ang ginpakita sang Ginoong Dios Dios sa akon: Nakita ko nga nagtipon ang Ginoo Ginoo sang madamo gid nga mga apan sa tapos mahatag sa hari ang iya parte
Dayon ginkaon sang mga apan ang tanan nga tanom, kag wala gid sing may nabilin. Kag dayon nagsiling ako, “Ginoong Dios Dios , nagapangabay ako sa imo nga patawaron mo ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob. Paano sila mabuhi kon matabo ina nga silot kon matabo ina nga silot ? Maluya sila kag wala sing ikasarang.”
Gani nagbaylo ang hunahuna sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling siya, “Ang imo nakita indi na matabo.”
Amo pa ini ang ginpakita sang Ginoong Dios Dios sa akon: Nakita ko nga nagpreparar ang Ginoong Dios Dios sa pagsilot sa iya katawhan sa iya katawhan paagi sa kalayo. Dayon ginpamala sang kalayo ang ginahalinan sang tubig sa idalom sang duta, kag ginsunog sini ang tanan nga ara sa duta sang Israel.
Kag dayon nagsiling ako, “Ginoong Dios Dios , nagapangabay ako sa imo nga indi ina paghimua. Paano mabuhi ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob kon matabo ina kon matabo ina ? Maluya sila kag wala sing ikasarang.”
Gani nagbaylo ang hunahuna sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nagsiling siya, “Ang imo nakita indi na man matabo.”
Amo pa gid ini ang ginpakita sang Ginoong Dios Dios sa akon: Nakita ko ang Ginoo nga nagatindog malapit sa pader kag may ginauyatan siya nga tunton
Nagpamangkot ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Amos, ano ang nakita mo?” Nagsabat ako, “Tunton.” Dayon nagsiling siya, “Suno sa akon nga pagtunton, indi tadlong ang kabuhi sang akon katawhan nga taga-Israel. Gani sa sini nga tion Gani sa sini nga tion indi ko na sila pagkaluoyan pa.
Gub-on ko ang mga simbahan sa mataas nga mga lugar nga ginasimbahan sang mga taga-Israel nga kaliwat ni Isaac. Kag ipasalakay ko sa mga kaaway ang Israel Israel , ang ginharian ni Haring Haring Jeroboam.”
Karon, si Amazia nga pari sang Betel nagpadala sang mensahi kay Haring Jeroboam sang Israel. Siling niya, “Nagaplano si Amos sing malain kontra sa imo diri mismo sa Israel. Indi na maagwantahan sang mga tawo ang iya mga ginapanghambal.
Kay amo ini ang iya ginasiling: ‘Mapatay si Jeroboam sa inaway, kag sigurado gid nga bihagon ang mga taga-Israel sa iban nga nasyon.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Amazia kay Amos, “Ikaw nga propeta, halin ka diri kag magbalik sa Juda. Didto himua ang imo palangabuhian bilang propeta.
Indi ka na magsugid sang mensahi sang Dios diri sa Betel, kay ari diri ang templo nga ginasimbahan sang hari, ang templo sang iya iya ginharian.”
Nagsabat si Amos kay Amazia, “Indi ako propeta sadto sadto ukon sumulunod
Pero ginhambalan ako sang Ginoo Ginoo nga bayaan ko ang akon trabaho bilang manugbantay sang karnero kag magsugid ako sang iya mensahi sa inyo nga mga taga-Israel nga iya katawhan.
Amo ini ang ginpakita sang Ginoong Dios Dios sa akon: Nakita ko ang isa ka alat nga may luto nga mga prutas.
Nagpamangkot ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Amos, ano ang nakita mo?” Nagsabat ako, “Isa ka alat nga may luto nga mga prutas.” Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Nag-abot na ang katapusan
Sa sina nga adlaw nga silutan sila nga silutan sila , ang masadya nga masadya nga pagkinanta sa templo
kag nagatinguha sa paglaglag sa ila.
para makabaligya na kamo sang uyas kag makadaya sa inyo nga pagsukob, pagtakos, kag pagkilo.
bisan ang iya utang ahaw isa ka paris nga sandalyas.
“Indi ko gid pagkalimtan ang tanan nga kalautan nga ginhimo ninyo.
nga daw pareho sang pag-awas kag paghubas sang Suba sang Nilo sa Egypt.
Pero mas masakit pa gid ang katapusan sang sini nga mga silot.”
kundi kagutom kag kauhaw kag kauhaw sa pagpamati sang akon mensahi.
pero indi gid ninyo ini makita bisan diin kamo magkadto.
magakalalipong sa kauhaw.
pagalaglagon kamo kag indi na gid kamo makabangon pa.”
Wala sing bisan isa sa ila nga makalikaw ukon makapalagyo.
butungon ko sila paidalom.
suguon ko ang man-og didto sa pagkagat sa ila.
Kay determinado gid ako nga laglagon sila kag indi nga buligan.”
sang Suba sang Nilo sa Egypt.
pero ginpaguwa ko man ang mga Filistinhon sa Caftor
Subong nga ang mga bato-bato indi makalusot sa ayagan,
Amo ini sila ang nagasiling nga wala kuno sing malain nga magaabot sa ila.
kag patindugon ko ini liwat nga pareho sang una,
kag himuon ko ini nga mga butang.”
daw sa nagailig ini nga bag-o nga bino.
Magatanom sila sa ila mga talamnan kag magakaon sang mga bunga sini.
Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
Nabatian ta nga mga Israelinhon nga mga Israelinhon ang balita halin sa Ginoo Ginoo , nga nagpadala siya sang mensahero sa mga nasyon sa paghagad sa ila sa pagpakig-away kontra sa nasyon sang Edom.
Kay siling sang Ginoo sa mga taga-Edom, Kay siling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga taga-Edom, “Pamati! Himuon ko kamo nga mas kubos sang sa iban nga mga nasyon, kag pakalainon gid nila kamo.
Nagasiling kamo nga wala sing may makasalakay sa inyo tungod kay nagaestar kamo sa batuhon kag mataas nga lugar. Pero sa pagpabugal ninyo nga ina ginadayaan lang ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon.
Kay bisan pa nga parehuon ninyo kataas sa pugad sang agila ang inyo ginaestaran, ukon palab-uton pa ninyo ini sa mga bituon, laglagon ko gihapon kamo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.
“Indi bala nga ang mga kawatan wala nila ginaubos kuha ang sa sulod sang balay kundi wala nila ginaubos kuha ang sa sulod sang balay kundi ginakuha lang nila ang ila kinahanglan? Kag indi bala nga ang mga nagapangharvest sang ubas wala nila ginaubos kuha ang mga bunga kundi ginabilinan nila ini?
Pangitaon nila kag kuhaon ang mga manggad ninyo nga mga kaliwat ni nga mga kaliwat ni Esau.
Dayaan kamo sang inyo kadampig nga mga nasyon. Ini sila nga nagpakig-abyan sa inyo amo man ang magasalakay sa inyo, kag palayason nila kamo sa inyo lugar. Ini sila nga nagkaon upod sa inyo amo man ang magabutang sang siod sa inyo nga indi ninyo matalupangdan.
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga sa tion nga silutan ko na kamo, laglagon ko ang inyo maalam nga mga tawo. Madula ang kaalam sa Edom nga ginatawag Bukid ni Esau.
Magakurog sa kahadlok ang inyo mga soldado sa Teman, gani mapatay kamo tanan nga nagaestar nga nagaestar sa Bukid ni Esau.
“Tungod sa pagpamintas nga ginhimo ninyo sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob, nga inyo kadugo, mahuy-an kamo kag pagalaglagon hasta san-o.
Nagpabaya lang kamo sadtong tion nga ginsalakay ang Jerusalem sang taga-iban nga mga nasyon. Ginpabay-an lang ninyo nga kuhaon nila ang mga pagkabutang sang Jerusalem kag partidahon paagi sa paggabot-gabot. Pareho lang kamo sa ila nga mga kaaway sang Israel nga mga kaaway sang Israel .
Wala kuntani kamo nagkalipay sang tion sang kalamidad sang katawhan sang Juda, nga inyo kadugo. Wala kuntani kamo nagkasadya sang tion sang pagkalaglag nila. Kag wala kuntani kamo nagpabugal sang tion sang ila kalisod.
Wala kuntani kamo nagsulod sa siyudad sang akon katawhan sang tion sang ila kalaglagan, kag nagpanguha sang ila pagkabutang. Kag wala kuntani kamo nagkalipay sang tion sang ila pag-antos.
Wala kuntani kamo nagtindog sa ginsang-an sang mga dalan sa pagpamatay sang mga nagpalagyo halin sa Jerusalem. Kag wala kuntani ninyo sila gintugyan sa mga kaaway sa mga kaaway sang tion sang ila kalisod.
“ Wala kuntani ninyo ginhimo ato sa Jerusalem Wala kuntani ninyo ginhimo ato sa Jerusalem tungod kay malapit na lang ang tion nga magahukom ako sa tanan nga nasyon. Kag kon ano ang ginhimo ninyo sa iban, amo man ina ang pagahimuon sa inyo. Kon ano ang pagtratar ninyo sa iban, amo man ina ang ibalos sa inyo.
Subong nga ginsilutan ang akon katawhan
“Pero may mabilin nga mga Israelinhon sa Bukid sang Zion, kag sa liwat sa liwat mangin balaan ini nga lugar. Kag maangkon liwat liwat sang mga kaliwat ni Jacob ang mga duta nga mga duta nga ila anay ginapanag-iyahan.
Ang mga kaliwat ni Jacob kag ni Jose
“Pagasakupon sang mga Israelinhon nga Israelinhon nga taga-Negev
Pagasakupon sang Pagasakupon sang madamo nga Israelinhon nga halin sa pagkabihag ang duta sang duta sang mga Canaanhon hasta sa Zarefat. Kag pagasakupon sang mga taga-Jerusalem nga halin sa pagkabihag sa Sefarad ang mga banwa sang Negev.
Magataklad ang mga manughilway sang Israel sang Israel sa Bukid sang Zion, sa pagdumala sa katawhan nga nagaestar sa katawhan nga nagaestar sa Bukid ni Esau. Kag ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , amo ang magahari.”
Karon, naghambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jonas nga anak ni Amitai. Siling niya,
“Magkadto ka gilayon sa Nineve, ang dako nga siyudad, kag ipahibalo sa mga tawo didto nga nakaabot na sa akon ang ila kalautan.”
Pero naglakat gilayon si Jonas agod magpalagyo sa Ginoo Ginoo
Sang nagabiyahe na sila, Sang nagabiyahe na sila, nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang mabaskog nga hangin sa dagat, kag nagbagyo sing mabaskog hasta nga daw maguba na ang barko.
Si Jonas ya nakapanaog na sadto sa idalom nga parte sang barko kag naghigda didto hasta nga natulugan siya sing mahamuok.
Karon, nagkadto sa iya ang kapitan sang barko kag nagsiling, “Ano ka imo nga nagatulog ka pa! Bangon, kag magpangayo bulig sa imo dios! Basi pa lang talupangdon niya kita para indi kita mapatay.”
Karon, naghambalanay ang mga tripulante, “Dali magabot-gabot kita para mahibaluan ta kon sin-o ang kabangdanan sang sini nga kalamidad nga nag-abot sa aton.” Gani naggabot-gabot sila, kag ang nagabutan amo ang ngalan ni Jonas.
Dayon nagsiling sila sa iya, “Palihog sugiri kami kon sin-o gid bala ang kabangdanan sang sini nga kalamidad nga nag-abot sa aton, kag kon ano ang imo trabaho kag kon sa diin ka naghalin. Sugiri man kami Sugiri man kami kon ano ang imo nasyon kag rasa.”
Nagsabat si Jonas, “Hebreo ako kag nagasimba ako sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios sang langit
Gani hinadlukan gid ang mga tripulante tungod kay ginsugid na sa ila nga daan ni Jonas nga nagpalagyo siya sa Ginoo Ginoo . Nagsiling sila sa iya, “Indi maayo ang ginhimo mo.”
Sang nagamadlos na gid, nagsiling ang mga tripulante kay Jonas, “Ano ang himuon namon sa imo para magkalma ang dagat kag indi na makaperwisyo sa amon?”
Nagsabat siya sa ila, “Hakwata ninyo ako kag ihulog sa dagat, kag dayon magakalma ang dagat kag indi na ini makaperwisyo sa inyo. Kay nahibaluan ko nga ako ang kabangdanan kon ngaa nag-abot ining mabaskog nga bagyo sa inyo.”
Wala nila ginsunod si Jonas, Wala nila ginsunod si Jonas, sa baylo, nagpamugsay sila pabalik sa higad. Pero binudlayan sila kay nagamadlos na gid tapat.
Gani nagpanawag sila sa Ginoo Ginoo . Siling nila, “O Ginoo Ginoo , nagapakitluoy kami sa imo, indi kami pagpatya tungod sa amon pagahimuon kay Jonas. Indi kami pagsukta sa amon pagpatay sa iya nga wala pa man namon masiguro nga nakasala siya matuod. Pero nahibaluan namon nga ining nagakalatabo suno sa imo pagbuot.”
Gani ginhakwat nila si Jonas kag ginhulog sa dagat, kag nagkalma ang mabaskog nga balod.
Tungod sini nga hitabo, dako gid ang pagtahod sang mga tawo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Gani naghalad sila sa iya kag nagpromisa nga magapadayon sila sa pagsimba kag paghalad sa iya.
Nagpadala ang Ginoo Ginoo sang dako nga isda sa pagtulon kay Jonas. Kag didto siya sa tiyan sang isda sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw kag tatlo ka gab-i.
Nagpangamuyo si Jonas sa Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios sa sulod sang isda.
kag ginpamatian mo ako.
kag gintabunan sang mga balod nga ginpadala mo.
sa imo balaan nga templo.
kag ginsamburan ang akon ulo sang tanom sa dagat.
O Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios.
didto sa imo balaan nga templo.
nagasikway sang ila paghigugma sa imo sa imo .
Ikaw, Ikaw, Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagaluwas!”
Karon, ginsugo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang isda nga iluad si Jonas nga iluad si Jonas . Gani ginluad niya si Jonas sa baybayon.
Naghambal liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Jonas.
Siling niya, “Magkadto ka gilayon sa Nineve, ang dako nga siyudad, kag isugid sa mga tawo didto ang mensahi nga ginhatag ko sa imo.”
Sa gilayon nagkadto si Jonas sa Nineve suno sa ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Dako gid nga siyudad ang Nineve; mga tatlo ini ka adlaw kon lakton.
Nagsulod si Jonas sa Nineve. Kag pagkatapos sang isa ka adlaw nga pagpanglakaton, nagsiling siya sa mga tawo didto sa mga tawo didto , “40 ka adlaw na lang ang nabilin kag pagalaglagon ang Nineve!”
Nagtuo ang mga taga-Nineve sa Dios. Tanan sila, halin sa pinakadungganon hasta sa pinakakubos, nagsul-ob sang sako kag nagpuasa sa pagpakita nga nagahinulsol sila sa pagpakita nga nagahinulsol sila .
Kay sang pagkabati sang hari sa mensahi ni Jonas ni Jonas , nagtindog siya sa iya trono kag gin-uba niya ang iya pangtabon nga panapton kag nagsul-ob sang sako, kag dayon nagpungko siya sa duta sa pagpakita nga nagahinulsol siya sa pagpakita nga nagahinulsol siya .
Naghimo siya sang pahibalo sa mga taga-Nineve nga nagasiling, “Suno sa mando sang hari kag sang iya mga opisyal, wala sing bisan isa sa inyo nga magkaon ukon mag-inom, bisan ang inyo mga baka, karnero, ukon kanding.
Magsul-ob kamo tanan sang sako, pati ang mga sapat, kag magpangamuyo kamo sa Dios sing tinagipusuon. Magtalikod kamo sa inyo malain nga pagkabuhi kag sa pagpamintas nga inyo ginahimo.
Basi pa lang magbaylo ang hunahuna sang Dios kag kalimtan na niya ang iya puwerte nga kaakig sa aton para indi kita mapatay.”
Nakita sang Dios ang ila ginhimo, kon paano sila nagtalikod sa ila malain nga pagkabuhi. Gani nagbaylo ang iya hunahuna kag wala na lang niya sila paglaglaga suno sa iya ginsiling nga iya himuon.
Indi nagustuhan ni Jonas ang pagpatawad sang Ginoo Ginoo sa Nineve, kag nangakig gid siya.
Siling niya sa Ginoo Ginoo sang nagpangamuyo siya, “O Ginoo Ginoo , wala gid ako magsala sa ginsiling ko sang didto pa ako sa amon lugar nga kaluoyan mo ang mga taga-Nineve kon maghinulsol sila nga kaluoyan mo ang mga taga-Nineve kon maghinulsol sila , tungod nahibaluan ko nga maluluy-on ka kag mabinalak-on nga Dios. Mahigugmaon ka kag indi dali mangakig. Kag handa ka nga magbaylo sang imo hunahuna nga indi na magpadala sang kalaglagan. Amo ina ang kabangdanan nga nagpalagyo ako pa-Tarshish.
Gani Ginoo Ginoo , kuhaa na lang ang akon kabuhi, kay mas maayo pa nga mapatay na lang ako sang sa mabuhi.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Puwerte gid bala ang imo kaakig tungod sa ginhimo ko sa Nineve?”
Nagguwa si Jonas sa east sang siyudad kag nagpungko didto. Naghimo siya sang payag-payag kag nagpahandong samtang nagahulat siya kon ano ang matabo sa siyudad.
Pero nainitan gihapon si Jonas, gani ginpatubo sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios ang isa ka tanom kag ginpalapaw ini kay Jonas para mahandungan siya. Nalipay gid si Jonas tungod sa tanom.
Pero sang kaagahon sang sunod nga adlaw, ginpakaon sang Dios sa ulod
Sang nagbutlak na gid ang adlaw, nagpadala ang Dios sang mainit nga hangin halin sa east. Daw sa malipong si Jonas sang nainitan ang iya ulo sang adlaw. Gusto na lang niya nga mapatay, gani nagsiling siya, “Mas maayo pa nga mapatay na lang ako sang sa mabuhi.”
Nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, “Puwerte gid bala ang imo kaakig tungod sa natabo sa tanom?” Nagsabat siya, “Huo, puwerte gid, gani gusto ko na lang nga mapatay!”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Naluoy ka gani sa sinang tanom nga nagtubo sa isa lang ka gab-i kag napatay man dayon sa isa lang ka gab-i, bisan pa nga indi ikaw ang nagtanom ukon nagpatubo sina.
Ako pa ayhan ang indi maluoy sa Nineve, sa sinang dako nga siyudad nga may sobra 120,000 ka tawo nga wala makahibalo parte sa akon mga kasuguan,
Nagsiling si Micas: Nagsiling si Micas:
Pamati kamo sing maayo, tanan kamo nga mga katawhan nga ara sa kalibutan!
Pamati! Magaguwa ang Ginoo Ginoo halin sa iya ginaestaran. Magapanaog siya kag magatapak sa mataas nga mga lugar sang kalibutan.
Matunaw ang mga bukid nga iya matapakan pareho sang kandila sa kalayo, kag magaluhob
Matabo ini tanan tungod kay nagpakasala ang mga katawhan sang Israel kag sang Juda.
Gani nagasiling ang Ginoo , nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Laglagon ko ang Samaria kag indi na ini maestaran kundi pagatamnan na lang sang ubas. Paligiron ko ang mga bato sini pakadto sa patag hasta nga magguluwa ang mga pundasyon sini.
Magkaladugmok ang tanan nga imahen sang mga dios-dios sang Samaria, kag magkalasunog ang tanan nga ginbayad sang ila mga lalaki sa pagpakighilawas sa mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas sa templo.
Nagsiling si Micas, Nagsiling si Micas, “Tungod sa kalaglagan sang Samaria, magahibi ako kag magapanalambiton. Magalagaw ako nga nagatiniil kag wala sing bayo sa pagpakita sang akon pagpangasubo sa pagpakita sang akon pagpangasubo . Magawawaw ako pareho sang pag-uwang sang talunon nga ido
Kay ang kalaglagan sang Samaria daw pareho sang pilas nga indi na mag-ayo, kag matabo man ini sa Juda. Magaabot ini sa Jerusalem, ang kapital nga siyudad
“ Mga taga-Juda, Mga taga-Juda, indi ninyo pagsugiri ang aton mga kaaway nga aton mga kaaway nga taga-Gat parte sa kalaglagan nga maabot sa aton parte sa kalaglagan nga maabot sa aton . Indi sila pagpakitaa nga nagahibi kamo. Ipakita ninyo ang inyo kasubo sa Bet Leafra
“Mga pumuluyo sang Shafir, pagabihagon kamo kag dal-on nga hublas, gani mahuy-an kamo. Ang mga pumuluyo sang Zaanan mahadlok nga magguwa sa ila nga lugar sa pagbulig sa inyo sa pagbulig sa inyo . Ang mga taga-Bet Ezel nga magahibi sa ila nga pagkalaglag sa ila nga pagkalaglag indi man makapangapin sa inyo.
Sa pagkamatuod, ang mga pumuluyo sang Marot mabinalak-on nga nagahulat sa pag-untat sang inaway. Pero gintugot pa gani sang Ginoo Ginoo nga makapalapit ang mga kaaway sa puwertahan sang Jerusalem.
“Mga pumuluyo sang Lakish, takdi ninyo sang mga karwahe ang inyo mga kabayo kag magpalagyo kag magpalagyo . Ginsunod ninyo ang sala sang Israel, kag tungod sa inyo nagpakasala man ang mga pumuluyo sang Zion.
“Kag karon, mga taga-Juda, magpaalam na kamo
“Mga taga-Juda,
Ang inyo hinigugma nga mga kabataan
Kaluluoy kamo nga nagapulaw sa pagplano sing malain. Pagkaaga ginahimo ninyo ang inyo ginplano nga malain tungod nga may gahom kamo sa paghimo sini.
Ginaagaw ninyo ang mga uma kag mga balay nga inyo nagustuhan. Ginadayaan ninyo ang mga tawo para makuha ninyo ang ila balay kag ang ila duta nga ginpanubli.
Gani amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo sa inyo , “Pamati kamo! Nagaplano ako nga laglagon ko kamo kag indi gid kamo makaluwas. Indi na kamo makapahambog kay sa sina nga tion laglagon kamo.
Sa sina nga adlaw yagutaon kamo sang mga tawo paagi sa masubo gid nga panalambiton nga nagasiling, ‘Ginlaglag kami sing bug-os! Ginkuha sang Ginoo Ginoo ang amon duta kag ginhatag sa mga traidor.’ ”
Gani wala na kamo sing mga kaliwat nga magbaton sang inyo parte sa tion nga partidahon sang komunidad sang Ginoo Ginoo ang duta nga ibalik sa ila nga ibalik sa ila .
Karon Karon ginawalihan pa ninyo kami. Nagasiling kamo, Nagasiling kamo, “Indi na kami pagwalihi parte sa sina nga kalaglagan nga ginasiling ninyo, kay indi gid kami mahuy-an.
Amo ini ang sabat sang Ginoo sa inyo Amo ini ang sabat sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo : “Kon maayo lang ang inyo ginahimo, mabaton gid ninyo ang akon mga promisa.
Pero ang inyo ginahimo, ginasalakay ninyo ang akon imol nga imol nga katawhan nga daw mga kaaway. Nagahunahuna sila nga sa pagpuli nila sa ila lugar halin sa inaway wala na sing may mag-ano sa ila, pero gali, ara kamo nga magaagaw sang ila pangtabon nga panapton.
Ginatabog ninyo ang ila mga babayi sa ila ginapakamahal nga mga balay. Kag ginakuha ninyo ang mga pagpakamaayo nga ginhatag ko sa ila mga kabataan, gani indi na nila ini mabaton hasta san-o.
Karon, Karon, halin kamo diri sa Israel sa Israel kay ini nga lugar indi na makahatag sa inyo sang kapahuwayan, tungod kay ginhigkuan ninyo ini sang inyo mga sala sang inyo mga sala . Malaglag gid ini nga lugar kag indi na mapuslan.
Ang gusto ninyo nga manugwali amo ang nagasugid sang wala sing pulos, dayaon kag butigon, kag amo ini ang ginawali: ‘Magabugana ang inyo bino kag ang iban pa nga ilimnon.’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kamo nga mga katawhan sang Israel kag sang Juda
Pagabuksan ko ang puwertahan sang siyudad nga sa diin kamo ginbihag, kag pangunahan ko kamo sa pagguwa. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo hari, amo ang magapanguna sa inyo.”
Nagsiling si Micas,
Sa tion nga pagasilutan kamo magapangayo kamo sang bulig sa Ginoo Ginoo , pero indi niya kamo pagbuligan; talikdan niya kamo tungod sang inyo malain nga mga binuhatan.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa mga propeta nga nagapatalang sa iya katawhan, nga nagapromisa sang maayo nga kahimtangan sa mga nagapakaon sa ila, pero nagapamahog sang kalaglagan sa mga wala nagapakaon sa ila:
Tungod sang inyo pagpatalang sa akon katawhan, indi na kamo makakita sang palanan-awon kag indi naman kamo makapamakot. Daw pareho lang nga ara kamo sa kadulom ukon sa kagab-ihon nga wala kamo sing may makita nga wala kamo sing may makita .
Mahuy-an gid kamo nga mga propeta kag mga manugpakot. Pagatabunan ninyo ang inyo guya sa kahuya sa kahuya , tungod nga wala kamo sing may nabaton nga mensahi halin sa Dios.
“Pero ako ya, puno sang Espiritu sang Ginoo Ginoo nga amo ang nagahatag sa akon sang gahom sa pagpahari sang hustisya kag sang kaisog sa pagsugid sa mga katawhan sang Israel kag sang Juda nga nakasala sila.
“Kamo nga mga pangulo sang Israel kag sang Juda, pamati kamo! Ginakaugtan ninyo ang hustisya kag ginatiko ang husto.
Ginatukod ninyo ang Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem, sa malain nga paagi. Handa kamo nga magpatay sang tawo basta matukod lang ini.
Nagahukom kamo pabor sa nagahatag sa inyo sang lagay. Kag kamo nga mga pari, nagapanudlo kamo tungod lang kay ginabayaran kamo. Amo man sa inyo nga mga propeta, nagapamakot kamo tungod lang sa kuwarta. Nagasalig pa kamo nga buligan kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay nagasiling kamo, ‘Kaupod namon ang Ginoo Ginoo . Gani wala sing malain nga matabo sa amon.’
Gani tungod sa inyo pagalaglagon pagalaglagon ang Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem. Mangin pareho ini sa gin-arado nga uma, kag mangin tinumpukan sang mga nagkalaguba. Kag mangin kagulangan ang bukid nga ginatindugan sang templo.”
Sa palaabuton nga mga inadlaw, ang bukid nga ginatindugan sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo mangin pinakaimportante
Gani magapuli ang mga tawo halin sa Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem, nga dala ang mga kasuguan sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kag paagi sa iya nga kasuguan, paagi sa iya nga kasuguan, husayon niya ang mga pagbinais-bais sang madamo nga nasyon, bisan pa atong gamhanan nga mga nasyon sa malayo. Gani indi na mag-ilinaway ang mga nasyon, kag indi na man sila maghanas sang mga tawo sa pagpakig-away. Himuon na lang nila nga tagad ang ila mga espada kag himuon na lang nila nga mga inughagbas ang ila mga bangkaw.
Ang kada tawo magapungko sa idalom sang iya tanom nga ubas kag kahoy nga higera nga wala sing may ginakahadlukan. Matabo gid ini, Matabo gid ini, kay ang Ginoo Ginoo mismo nga Makagagahom ang nagsiling sini.
Pero bisan magsunod pa ang iban nga mga katawhan sa ila mga dios-dios, kami ya magasunod sa Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios hasta san-o.
Karon madamo nga nasyon ang nagtipon sa pagpakig-away sa inyo. Nagasiling sila, ‘Pakahuy-an
Pero ini nga mga nasyon wala makahibalo sang akon hunahuna. Wala sila makaintiendi sang akon plano, nga gintipon ko sila para silutan pareho sang mga uhay nga gintipon para linason.
“Mga pumuluyo sang Zion,
Karon, mga taga-Jerusalem, ipreparar ninyo ang inyo mga soldado
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ikaw, Betlehem Efrata, isa sa pinakagamay
Gani itugyan sang Ginoo Ginoo ang katawhan sang Israel sa ila mga kaaway, pero hasta lang sa tion nga ang babayi nga nagapasakit
Magadumala ang ini nga pangulo kag tipigan niya ang katawhan sang Israel ang katawhan sang Israel pareho sa isa ka manugbantay sang mga karnero. Himuon niya ini sa kusog kag sa gahom sang Ginoo Ginoo nga iya Dios. Kag magakabuhi ang iya katawhan nga wala sing may ginakahadlukan tungod kay kilalahon sang mga tawo hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan ang iya pagkagamhanan.
Kon salakayon sang mga taga-Assyria ang aton duta kag sudlon nila ang mabakod nga mga parte sang aton siyudad, mapakig-away kita sa ila nga ginapangunahan sing maayo sang aton mga pangulo.
Pierdihon nila kag dumalahan ang Assyria, ang duta ni Nimrod, paagi sa ila mga armas. Gani luwason nila
“Ang nagkalabilin nga mga Israelinhon magadala sang pagpakamaayo sa madamo nga nasyon. Mangin pareho sila sa tun-og kag ulan nga ginapadala sang Ginoo Ginoo sa pagpatubo sang mga tanom. Magasalig sila sa Dios kag indi sa tawo.
Pero magadala man sila sang kalaglagan sa mga nasyon. Mangin pareho sila sa leon nga maisog magsalakay sa mga kasapatan sa kagulangan kag sa panong sang mga karnero sa palahalban sa palahalban . Kag kon magsalakay ini ginalumpatan niya ang iya biktima kag ginagus-ab, kag indi ini makaluwas sa iya.
Magamadinalag-on ang mga Israelinhon kontra sa ila mga kaaway. Laglagon gid nila sila tanan.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Sa palaabuton nga mga inadlaw, ipapatay ko ang inyo mga kabayo kag gub-on ko ang inyo mga karwahe.
Gub-on ko ang inyo mga banwa pati na ang napaderan nga mga banwa.
Gub-on ko ang inyo mga anting-anting kag madula ang inyo mga manugbabaylan.
Indi na kamo makasimba sa mga imahen kag sa handumanan nga mga bato nga inyo ginhimo, kay gub-on ko ini
pati ang mga hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si hulohaligi nga simbolo sang diosa nga si Ashera. Kag laglagon ko gid ang inyo mga banwa.
Sa akon puwerte nga kaakig, magabalos ako sa mga nasyon nga wala nagtuman sa akon.”
Nagsiling si Micas, Nagsiling si Micas, “Pamatii ninyo ang isiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo nga mga Israelinhon sa inyo nga mga Israelinhon . Sige na, ipresentar ninyo ang inyo kaso; pabatia ninyo ang mga bukid
Kag kamo nga mga bukid kag mabakod nga mga pundasyon sang kalibutan, pamatii ninyo ang akusasyon sang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa mga Israelinhon nga iya katawhan. Amo ini ang iya akusasyon:
“Mga katawhan ko, ano bala nga sala ang nahimo ko sa inyo? Ginpabudlayan ko bala kamo? Sabta ninyo ako.
Ginpaguwa ko pa gani kamo kag ginhilway sa Egypt nga sa diin gin-ulipon kamo. Kag ginpili ko si Moises, Aaron kag si Miriam sa pagpangulo sa inyo.
Mga katawhan ko, dumduma ninyo nga ginsugo ni Haring Balak sang Moab si Balaam nga anak ni Beor nga pakamalauton kamo pero ginpahambal ko si Balaam sang mga pagpakamaayo sa inyo. Dumduma man ninyo kon paano ko kamo ginbuligan sang nagpanglakaton kamo Dumduma man ninyo kon paano ko kamo ginbuligan sang nagpanglakaton kamo halin sa Shitim hasta sa Gilgal, para mareyalisar ninyo ang pagluwas
Nagsabat ang isa sa mga Israelinhon, Nagsabat ang isa sa mga Israelinhon, “Ano bala ang ihalad ko sa Ginoo Ginoo , ang Dios nga sa langit, kon magsimba ako sa iya? Mahalad bala ako sang baka nga isa ka tuig bilang halad nga ginasunog?
Malipay ayhan ang Ginoo Ginoo kon halaran ko siya sang linibo ka karnero kag madamo gid nga lana? Ihalad ko bala sa iya ang akon kamagulangan nga anak bilang bayad sa akon mga sala?”
Nagsabat si Micas, Nagsabat si Micas, “Gintudluan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo kon ano ang maayo. Kag amo ini ang iya gusto nga ipatuman sa aton: Himuon ta kon ano ang matarong, pasulabihon ta ang pagkaluoy sa iban, kag magsunod kita sa aton Dios nga may pagpaubos.”
“Kamo nga mga miyembro sang tribo sang Juda sang Juda , magtipon kamo sa siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem kag magpamati.
Malaot kamo nga katawhan! Indi ko malimtan ang mga manggad nga natipon ninyo sa malain nga paagi. Nagagamit kamo sang indi husto nga talaksan—ang buluhaton nga akon ginapakamalaot.
Indi puwede nga pabay-an ko lang kamo sa inyo nga pagpangdaya sa inyo kilohan.
Mapintas ang inyo manggaranon nga mga tawo, kag mga butigon kamo.
Gani tungod sang inyo mga sala gin-umpisahan ko na ang pagsilot sa inyo para laglagon kamo.
Matuod nga makakaon kamo, pero indi kamo mabusog; permi gihapon kamo gutumon. Magatipon kamo sang mga patubas, pero indi ninyo ini mapuslan, kay ipakuha ko ini sa inyo mga kaaway sa tion sang inaway.
Magatanom kamo, pero indi kamo ang magaani sini. Magapuga kamo sang mga olibo, pero indi kamo ang magapulos sang lana sini. Magalinas kamo sang mga ubas, pero indi kamo ang magainom sang bino sini.
Matabo ini sa inyo tungod kay ginsunod ninyo ang malain nga mga binuhatan, mga pagsulundan, kag mga laygay ni Haring Haring Omri kag sang panimalay ni Haring Haring Ahab. Gani laglagon ko kamo, kag insultuhon kamo kag yagutaon sang iban nga mga nasyon.”
Nagsiling si Micas, Nagsiling si Micas, “Kaluluoy ako! Pareho ako sa tawo nga gutom nga nagapangita sang mga nabilin nga mga bunga
Ang buot ko silingon, Ang buot ko silingon, wala na ako sing may nakita nga tawo sa Israel nga matutom sa Dios. Wala na sing may nabilin nga matarong nga tawo. Ang kada isa nagahulat sang kahigayunan sa pagpatay sang iya kasimanwa, pareho sang tawo nga nagahulat sa pagsiod sang sapat nga iya dalakpon.
Sagad sila sa paghimo sang malain. Ang mga pangulo kag mga huwis nagabaton sang lagay. Kag nagasunod lang sila sa luyag sang mga kilala kag gamhanan nga mga tawo. Nagaisa sila sa pagtiko sang hustisya sa pagtiko sang hustisya .
Ang pinakamatarong sa ila daw pareho lang sa tunukon nga mga hilamon nga wala sing pulos nga wala sing pulos . Nag-abot na ang tion nga silutan sang Dios ini nga mga tawo pareho sang iya ginpaandam sa ila paagi sa mga propeta nga pareho sa mga propeta nga pareho sa mga manugbantay sa tore. Gani karon magasalasala sila.
“ Tungod nga lapnag na ang kalautan, Tungod nga lapnag na ang kalautan, indi na kamo magsalig sa inyo mga abyan, bisan pa ang malapit ninyo nga mga abyan. Kag maghalong man kamo sa inyo ginasugid bisan sa inyo pinalangga nga asawa.
Kay sa sini nga tiyempo, sa sini nga tiyempo, ang anak nga lalaki wala nagatahod sa iya amay, ang anak nga babayi nagabato sa iya iloy, kag ang umagad nga babayi nagabato sa iya ugangan nga babayi. Ang kontra sang isa ka tawo amo mismo ang miyembro sang iya kaugalingon nga panimalay.
“Pero ako ya magasalig gid sa Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios. Magahulat ako sa iya nga luwason niya ako. Kag pamatian gid niya ang akon pangamuyo.”
Nagsiling ang mga Israelinhon, Nagsiling ang mga Israelinhon, “Indi dapat magyaguta ang aton mga kaaway sa aton. Kay bisan nalaglag kita mabangon kita liwat. Kag bisan ara kita sa kadulom ang Ginoo Ginoo amo ang aton kasanag.
Tungod nga nakasala kita sa Ginoo Ginoo , dapat lang nga antuson ta ang iya silot sa aton hasta nga apinan niya kita kag hatagan sang hustisya. Makita ta ang iya pagluwas sa aton
Makita ini sang aton mga kaaway kag mahuy-an sila. Kay nagayaguta sila sang una sa aton nga nagasiling, ‘Diin na bala ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios?’ Sa indi madugay makita ta ang ila pagkalaglag. Mangin pareho sila sa lutak nga ginatasak-tasak sa karsada.”
Nagsiling si Micas sa mga taga-Jerusalem, Nagsiling si Micas sa mga taga-Jerusalem, “Magaabot ang tion nga patindugon ninyo liwat ang inyo mga pader kag sa sina nga tion magalapad pa gid ang inyo teritoryo.
Sa sina man nga tion magakadto sa inyo ang mga tawo halin sa Assyria kag sa mga banwa sang Egypt, kag sa mga lugar nga halin sa Egypt pakadto sa Suba sang Euphrates sang Euphrates , kag halin sa malayo nga mga lugar.
Mangin mamingaw ang mga nasyon mga nasyon sa kalibutan tungod sang kalautan sang mga pumuluyo sini.”
Nagpangamuyo ang mga Israelinhon, Nagpangamuyo ang mga Israelinhon, “ Ginoo Ginoo , bantayi kami nga imo katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan, pareho sang pagbantay sang manugbantay sang mga karnero. Ang mga duta sa palibot namon bugana sang palahalban, pero kami nagakabuhi nga kamihanon lang sa kamingawan. Palapara liwat liwat ang amon teritoryo hasta sa Bashan kag sa Gilead pareho sang una.
Magpakita ka sa amon sang mga milagro pareho sang imo ginhimo sang una sang ginpaguwa mo kami sa Egypt.
Makita ini sang iban nga mga nasyon kag mahuy-an sila sa pihak sang ila pagkagamhanan. Kag indi na sila maghambal kag magpamati sang mga pagyaguta sa amon sang mga pagyaguta sa amon .
Magakamang sila sa duta pareho sang man-og tungod sa kahuya tungod sa kahuya . Magaguwa sila sa ila mga palanaguan nga nagakurog sa kahadlok sa imo, Ginoo Ginoo nga amon Dios.
Wala na sing iban nga dios nga pareho sa imo. Ginpatawad mo ang mga sala sang imo nabilin nga katawhan nga imo ginapanag-iyahan. Wala ka nagapabilin nga akig hasta san-o tungod kay ginakalipay mo ang paghigugma sa amon.
Sa liwat kaluoyan mo kami kag kuhaon mo kuhaon mo ang tanan namon nga mga sala. Daw pareho lang nga Daw pareho lang nga tasakon mo ini kag dayon ihaboy sa kadadalman sang dagat.
Ipakita mo ang imo katutom kag paghigugma sa amon nga mga kaliwat ni Abraham kag ni Jacob, pareho sang imo ginpromisa sa ila sang una nga panahon.”
Ang mensahi sang sini nga libro parte sa Nineve.
Indi gid gusto sang Ginoong Ginoong Dios nga may ginasimba ang mga tawo nga iban. Akig siya sa iya mga kaaway kag ginabalusan niya sila.
Indi siya tuod dali mangakig, pero puwerte siya kagamhanan kag silutan gid niya ang nakasala. Kon mag-agi siya nagahagunos ang hangin kag nagabagyo. Ang mga panganod daw sa yab-ok nga nagatap-ok sa iya mga tiil.
Sa iya nga pagmando nagamala ang mga dagat kag ang mga suba, nagakalaya ang mga tanom sa Bashan, sa Bukid sang Bukid sang Carmel, kag sa Lebanon.
Tungod sang iya presensya nagauyog ang kalibutan, pati na ang mga bukid, kag pati ang mga tawo sa kalibutan nagakurog.
Sin-o bala ang makaagwanta sang iya puwerte nga kaakig? Kon mangakig siya daw nagabuga siya sang kalayo, kag ang mga bato nagakalabuka sa iya atubangan.
Maayo ang Ginoo Ginoo ; mabakod siya nga dalangpan sa tion sang kalisod, kag ginatatap niya ang nagadangop sa iya.
Pareho siya sa mabaskog nga baha nga magaubos laglag sang iya mga kaaway. Lagson niya ang iya mga kaaway hasta nga mapatay niya sila.
Mga taga-Assyria, Mga taga-Assyria, kon ano man ang inyo malain nga ginaplano kontra sa katawhan sang katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo , dulaon ina sang Ginoo Ginoo , kag indi na ina maliwat pa.
Daw pareho kamo sa tawo nga hubog nga nasalawid sa tunukon nga mga kahoy-kahoy. Laglagon gid kamo pareho sang pagsunog sang dagami.
Ang isa sang inyo mga pangulo nagplano sing malain kontra sa katawhan sang katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Ang iya ginalaygay malain.
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga taga-Juda sa mga taga-Juda : “Bisan madamo kag makusog ang inyo kaaway nga mga taga-Assyria, pagalaglagon ko sila hasta nga mawala sila. Bisan tuod nga ginpaantos ko kamo indi ko na ina paghimuon pa liwat.
Kay karon hilwayon ko na kamo sa gahom sang mga taga-Assyria.”
Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga taga-Assyria: “Dulaon ko ang inyo mga kaliwat kag gub-on ko ang mga imahen nga kahoy ukon metal sa templo sang inyo mga dios-dios. Ipreparar ko na ang inyo mga lulubngan kay indi kamo dapat mabuhi.”
Tan-awa bala ninyo nga mga taga-Juda! May mensahero nga nagalatas sa mga kabukiran sa pagdala sa inyo sa inyo sang maayong balita nga may kalinong na sa inyo nga lugar. Gani sauluga ninyo ang inyo mga piesta kag tumana ninyo ang inyo mga panaad sa Ginoo sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kay ang malain nga nasyon sang Assyria nga nasyon sang Assyria indi na gid magsalakay sa inyo, kay pagalaglagon sila sing bug-os.
Mga taga-Nineve, ginasalakay na kamo sang inyo kaaway nga magapalapta sa inyo. Gani guwardyahi ninyo ang mga pader sang inyo siyudad kag bantayi ninyo ang mga dalan. Tipuna ninyo ang inyo mga soldado kag magpreparar kamo sa pagpakig-away.
Kay bisan tuod nga ginlaglag ninyo ang Israel kag ang Juda
Pula ang taming kag ang bayo sang mga soldado nga kaaway ninyo. Kag sa tion nga magasalakay sila nagainggat ang metal sang ila mga karwahe kag nagasirbe ang ila mga kabayo.
Nagahagunos ang ila mga karwahe sa mga karsada, nga nagapakadto-pakari sa mga plasa. Nagaidlab ini pareho sang sulo kag nagaigrab pareho sang kilat.
Ginasugo sang hari ang mga opisyal sang mga soldado. Nagakaladasma sila sa sobra nga dali-dali sa pagpalapit sa inyo mga pader para ipatakod ang panagang nga para sa mga soldado nga nagawasak sang pader.
Mabuksan ang mga puwertahan sang inyo siyudad sa may suba dampi kag marumpag ang inyo palasyo.
Nadeklarar na nga pagabihagon kamo
Ang mga tawo nga nagapalagyo halin sa mga tawo nga nagapalagyo halin sa Nineve daw sa tubig nga nagailig halin sa nawasak nga punong. Ang mga nagapalagyo ginapabalik sang ila mga upod pero wala gid sing may nagbalik.
Kamo nga nagasalakay sa Nineve, Kamo nga nagasalakay sa Nineve, panguhaa ninyo ang mga pilak kag bulawan sa sini nga siyudad kay puno ini sang manggad.
Malaglag, maguba, mawasak na ang Nineve! Gani ginakulbaan ang iya mga pumuluyo; nagapalangurog ang ila bilog nga lawas pati ang ila mga tuhod, kag nagapalanglapsi sila.
Kay nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Pamati kamo mga taga-Nineve mga taga-Nineve ! Kontra ko kamo! Gani sunugon ko ang inyo mga karwahe kag mapatay ang inyo mga soldado
Kaluluoy ang siyudad sang Nineve. Ang iya pumuluyo sang Nineve. Ang iya pumuluyo madamo sang ginpamatay nga mga tawo, kag mga butigon sila. Madamo sila sang mga pagkabutang nga gin-agaw sa iban, kag wala sila nagakawad-an sang mabiktima.
Salakayon gid sila sang ila kaaway. Mabatian nila Salakayon gid sila sang ila kaaway. Mabatian nila ang paglagapak sang latigo sa mga kabayo sa mga kabayo , ang pagrinungkadol sang mga rueda sang mga karwahe, ang paglinagapak sang mga tiil sang mga kabayo, kag ang pagdinaguldol
Makita nila Makita nila ang mga nagasaruso nga mga manugkabayo, ang nagainggat nga mga espada kag mga bangkaw, kag ang puwerte kadamo nga mga patay nga ginpangtumpok. Nagakasandad gani ang mga soldado sa mga patay.
Matabo ini sa Nineve tungod nga pareho siya sa babayi nga makapila na nga nagbaligya sang iya lawas, nga makatilintar kag nagapanglumay. Gani naganyat niya ang mga nasyon nga magpasakop sa iya.
Karon, nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Pamati kamo nga mga taga-Nineve nga mga taga-Nineve ! Kontra ko kamo! Gani pakahuy-an ko kamo sa iban nga mga nasyon kag mga ginharian pareho sang babayi nga gin-alsa ang iya bayo hasta sa ulo kag nakita ang iya pagkahublas.
Pakamalauton ko kamo pareho sang isa ka tawo nga ginahabuyan sang basura. Gani magatulok sa inyo ang mga tawo nga naham-ot.
Kag ang tanan nga makakita sa inyo magalikaw kag magasiling, ‘Guba na ang Nineve. Wala sing may magahibi para sa iya. Wala gid sing may magalipay sa iya.’ ”
Mas labaw pa bala ang Nineve sang sa Tebes nga malapit sa Suba sang Suba sang Nilo? Ini nga suba nagaprotektar sa Tebes pareho sang mga pader sa palibot sini.
Pero sa pihak sina ginbihag ang iya mga katawhan kag gindala sa iban nga lugar. Ginpangdugmok ang ila magagmay nga mga bata sa mga karsada. Ginpangkadenahan ang ila dungganon nga mga tawo kag ginpartida nga mangin mga ulipon nga mangin mga ulipon paagi sa paggabot-gabot.
Amo man sa inyo nga mga taga-Nineve nga mga taga-Nineve , mangin pareho kamo sa hubog nga wala sing kalibutan kon ano ang nagakatabo sa iya nga wala sing kalibutan kon ano ang nagakatabo sa iya . Salakayon man kamo sang inyo kaaway kag magapangita kamo sang palanaguan nga indi kamo madakpan.
Ang tanan ninyo nga napaderan nga mga banwa mangin pareho sa kahoy nga higera nga ang iya premiro nga mga bunga luto na; kag kon uyugon gani nagakahulog lang ang mga bunga kag puwede na dayon kaunon.
Tan-awa bala ninyo ang inyo mga soldado—daw mga babayi sila! Ang mga trangka sang puwertahan sang inyo siyudad magakalasunog, gani mahapos na ini sudlon sang inyo mga kaaway.
Sige, magpreparar kamo Sige, magpreparar kamo sa pag-abot sang inyo mga kaaway. Magtipon kamo sang tubig para may imnon kamo. Pabakura pa gid ninyo ang mga pader sa palibot sang inyo siyudad; maghimo kamo sang mga tisa
Nagdamo kamo pareho sang mga apan!
Ginpadamo ninyo ang inyo mga negosyante nga daw sobra pa sa kadamuon sang mga bituon sa langit. Pero mangin pareho sila sa mga apan nga sang pagkaubos nila sang mga tanom naglulupad sila palayo.
Ang inyo mga guwardya kag mga opisyal daw pareho sang mga apan nga puwerte kadamo, nga nagatiner sa mga pader kon matugnaw ang panahon. Pero kon magbutlak na gani ang adlaw, nagalupad sila palayo kag wala sing may nakahibalo kon sa diin sila nagkadto.
Hari sang Assyria, magakalamatay ang imo mga manugdumala. Magalinapta ang imo katawhan sa mga bukid, kag wala na sing may magtipon sa ila.
Mangin pareho ka sa pilason nga tawo nga ang iya pilas indi na mag-ayo. Ang tanan nga makabati sang balita sang imo pagkalaglag magapalakpak sa kalipay, kay tanan sila permi mo nga ginapintasan.
Amo ini ang mensahi ni Propeta Habakuk nga ginpahayag sa iya sang Ginoo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Nagsiling si Habakuk, Nagsiling si Habakuk, “O Ginoo Ginoo , hasta san-o pa bala ako magpangayo sang bulig sa imo kag pamatian mo ako? San-o mo pa bala kami luwason sa mga tawo nga nagapamintas sa amon?
Ngaa ginapakita mo pa sa akon ini nga kalautan kag kagamo? Bisan diin lang makita ko ang pagpinatyanay, pagpamintasanay, pag-ilinaway kag pagbinaisay.
Gani nangin wala na sing pulos ang kasuguan. Kag wala na man ginapahari ang hustisya tungod kay ang mga tawo nga may sala amo ang nagadaog sa korte kag indi ang mga tawo nga wala sing sala. Gani natiko ang hustisya.”
Nagsabat ang Dios, Nagsabat ang Dios, “Tan-awa ninyo sing maayo ang nagakalatabo sa mga nasyon kag matingala gid kamo sa inyo makita. Kay may himuon ako sa inyo tiyempo nga indi gid kamo magpati bisan may magsugid pa sini sa inyo.
Kay pagahumon ko ang mga taga-Babilonia.
Ginakahadlukan gid sila sang mga tawo. Ginahimo nila ang ila naluyagan kag wala sing may makapugong sa ila.
Ang ila mga kabayo mas madasig pa sa leopard kag mas mapintas pa sa wolf nga nagapangita sang iya kalan-on kon gab-i. Nagadalagan ini halin sa malayo nga mga lugar, nga daw sa nagalupad nga agila nga nagasibad sa pagdagit sang iya biktimahon.
Nagapadulong ang panong sang ila mga soldado nga handa sa pagpamintas. Daw pareho ini sa mabaskog nga hangin nga halin sa east. Ang ila mga nabihag daw pareho kadamo sa balas.
Ginayaguta lang nila ang mga hari kag mga pangulo. Kag ginakadlawan lang nila ang tagsa ka napaderan nga siyudad, kay mataklas nila ini paagi sa pagtumpok sang duta sa kilid sang pader, kag dayon maagaw nila ang siyudad.
Pagkatapos mahalin sila nga daw sa hangin lang nga naglabay. Ini sila nakasala, kay kay wala sila sing iban nga ginapakadios kundi ang ila lang nga ikasarang.”
Nagsiling si Habakuk, Nagsiling si Habakuk, “O Ginoo Ginoo , Dios ikaw halin sang una. Ikaw ang akon balaan nga Dios kag wala ka sing kamatayon. O Ginoo Ginoo nga palalipdan nga palalipdan nga bato, ginpili mo ang mga taga-Babilonia sa pagsilot sa amon.
Tungod nga matarong ka, indi ka makabatas nga magtulok sa kalautan kag kagamo. Pero ngaa ginapabay-an mo lang ang mga traidor nga taga-Babilonia nga taga-Babilonia ? Ngaa ginatugutan mo nga laglagon nila ang mga tawo nga indi gani masyado kalaot kon ikomparar sa ila?
Ginhimo mo ang ila mga kaaway nga daw pareho sa mga isda, nga wala sing pangulo nga magpangapin sa ila nga magpangapin sa ila .
Nagakinalipay kag nagasinadya ang mga taga-Babilonia sa ila nga pagbihag sang ila mga kaaway nga daw pareho lang sa mga isda nga nadakpan paagi sa bunit ukon pukot.
Kag tungod nga madamo ang ila nabihag, ginadayaw nila ang ila ikasarang pareho sang mangingisda nga ginadayaw nila ang ila ikasarang pareho sang mangingisda nga nagapadungog sang iya bunit ukon pukot paagi sa pagsunog sang insenso bilang halad sa sini nga mga butang. Kay paagi sa iya bunit ukon pukot nagmanggaranon siya kag nakapagusto siya sang manamit nga pagkaon.
Gani, Ginoo , Ginoo Ginoo , sigihon na lang bala nila ang wala luoy-luoy nga pagpamihag kag pagpanglaglag sa mga nasyon?”
Nagsiling dayon si Habakuk, Nagsiling dayon si Habakuk, “Masaka ako sa tore, sa akon balantayan, kag hulaton ko kon ano ang isiling sa akon sang Ginoo Ginoo kag kon ano ang iya isabat sa akon reklamo.”
Amo ini ang sabat sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Habakuk: “Isulat sing maathag sa malapad nga bato ang igapahayag ko sa imo para mahapos ini basahon.
Isulat lang anay ini Isulat lang anay ini kay wala pa mag-abot ang gintalana nga tion nga matabo ini. Pero matabo gid ini sa indi madugay kag indi ini mapaslaw. Kon daw madugay-dugay ini hulata lang, kay sigurado gid nga matabo ini kag indi maatrasar.
“Tan-awa ang mga bugalon! Mga malain sila nga mga tawo. Pero ang matarong nga tawo magakabuhi tungod sang iya pagtuo.
Sa pagkamatuod, ang manggad
“ ‘Kaluluoy kamo nga nagapanguha sang mga butang nga indi inyo kag nagatipon sang manggad paagi sa pagpanguwarta. Hasta san-o pa bala ninyo ina himuon?’
Pero ang matuod, gulpi lang kamo nga balusan sang mga nasyon nga ginbihag ninyo,
Tungod nga madamo nga nasyon ang gin-agawan ninyo sang mga pagkabutang, kamo naman ang agawan sang mga tawo nga nagkalabilin sa sini nga mga nasyon. Matabo ini sa inyo tungod sa pagpamatay ninyo sang mga tawo kag sa pagpanghalit ninyo sang ila mga duta kag mga banwa.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga nagapatindog sang mga balay
Tungod sang pagpamatay ninyo sang madamo nga tawo, kamo pagapatyon man kag pagagub-on ang inyo mga balay.
Ang mga bato sa dingding kag ang mga balayan sang inyo mga balay daw sa daw sa magasinggit sa pagpangayo sang bulig kay maguba na ang balay kay maguba na ang balay .
“Kaluluoy kamo nga nagatukod sang banwa sa mapintas nga paagi. Handa kamo nga magpatay sang tawo basta matukod lang ini.
Pero inang ginpatukod ninyo sa mga katawhan nga ginbihag ninyo nga ginbihag ninyo pagasunugon man lang, gani mangin wala sing pulos ang ila pinangabudlayan. Gintalana na ini sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Kay ang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan mapun-an sang ihibalo parte sa gahom sang Ginoo Ginoo , subong nga ang dagat puno sang tubig.
“Kaluluoy kamo! Kay sa inyo kaakig ginapakahuy-an ninyo Kay sa inyo kaakig ginapakahuy-an ninyo ang inyo katupad nga mga nasyon. Daw pareho lang nga ginahubog ninyo sila sang bino para makita ninyo ang ila pagkahublas.
Karon kamo naman ang mahuy-an imbes nga padunggan, kay pagasilutan gid kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Daw pareho lang nga paimnon niya kamo sang bino para kon hubog na gani kamo makita ang inyo pagkahublas
Ginpangtapas ninyo ang mga kahoy sa Lebanon, kag tungod sini nagkalamatay ang mga sapat didto. Gani halitan man kamo kag magakurog kamo sa kahadlok. Matabo ini sa inyo tungod sa pagpamatay ninyo sang mga tawo kag sa pagpanghalit ninyo sang ila mga duta kag mga banwa.
“Ano bala ang pulos sang mga dios-dios? Ginhimo man lang ina sang tawo halin sa kahoy ukon metal, kag indi man ina makasugid sang matuod. Kag ngaa bala nga ginapatihan gid ina sang mga tawo nga naghimo sina? Indi gani ina makahambal.
Kaluluoy kamo nga nagasiling sa imahen nga kahoy ukon bato, ‘Magbugtaw ka kag buligi kami.’ Indi gani ina makatudlo sa inyo. Kag bisan tuod nga nahaklapan ina sang bulawan kag pilak, pero wala ina sang kabuhi.
Pero ang Ginoo Ginoo iya ara sa iya balaan nga templo sa langit sa langit . Gani ang tanan nga ara sa kalibutan maghipos sa iya presensya.”
Pangamuyo ni Propeta Habakuk suno sa “shigionot”
Kag sa tion nga ipakita mo na ang imo kaakig, kaluoyi kami.
kag tungod sini dayawon ka sang mga tawo sa kalibutan.
nagasilak ang imo mga kamot nga sa diin natago ang imo gahom.
Magadala ka sang kahalitan sa imo nga pag-abot.
Ang imo mga pamaagi magapadayon hasta san-o.
Nakita ko ang mga pumuluyo sang Cushan nga ara sa kalisod; ang mga nagaestar sa Midian nagakurog sa kahadlok.
kag nagdalagko ang mga balod.
kag sa kasilaw sang imo nagaidlak nga bangkaw.
kag gintasak-tasak ang mga nasyon,
kag ginlaglag mo sing bug-os ang iya katawhan.
nga nagapanago sa kahadlok sa kahadlok .
Daw pareho ka sa soldado nga ang iya kabayo ginpatarag niya sa dagat sa paglabugay sini.
hulaton ko nga may pagbatas ang panahon nga silutan niya ang mga nagsalakay sa amon.
kag bisan indi magpatubas ang duta, kag bisan magkalapatay ang mga kasapatan sa toril,
magakalipay gihapon ako tungod kay ang Ginoong Ginoong Dios amo ang nagaluwas sa akon.
Sa direktor sang mga manugkanta: Gamita ang mga instrumento nga may kuwerdas.
Amo ini ang mensahi nga ginpahayag sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Zefanias sang panahon nga si Josia nga anak ni Amon amo ang hari sang Juda. Si Zefanias anak ni Cushi, si Cushi anak ni Gedalia, si Gedalia anak ni Amaria, kag si Amaria anak ni Hezekia.
“Laglagon ko sing bug-os ang tanan nga ara sa duta—
para indi na sila madumduman pa.
indi lang sa akon kundi sa dios-dios man nga si dios-dios man nga si Molec.
ukon ang mga wala nagadangop sa akon.”
Ginseparar na niya ang mga kaaway nga kaaway nga iya gintawag nga magsalakay sa Juda nga magsalakay sa Juda .
sang mga taga-iban nga nasyon.
para mapuno nila sang mga pagkabutang sang mga pagkabutang ang balay sang ila agalon.
sang mga nagkalarumpag nga mga balay sang mga nagkalarumpag nga mga balay sa mga bukid.
tungod kay magakalamatay ang tanan ninyo nga mga negosyante.
‘Wala sing himuon ang Ginoo Ginoo nga maayo ukon malain.’
Kag indi sila ang magainom sang bino nga halin sa ila gintanom nga mga ubas.”
kay bisan gani ang mga soldado magasinggit sa pagpangayo sang bulig sa pagpangayo sang bulig .
Madulom kag magal-om ang ina nga adlaw,
kag sa mataas nga mga tore sini.
kag magakaladunot ang ila mga bangkay pareho sang ipot.
Gulpi ko lang nga laglagon ang tanan nga nagaestar sa duta.”
“Wala huya nga nasyon, magtipon kamo kag maghinulsol kag maghinulsol
sa wala pa mag-abot ang gintalana nga tion nga tabugon kamo palayo
Kamo man nga mapainubuson nga mga tawo, nga nagasunod sa mga sugo sang Ginoo Ginoo , magdangop man kamo sa iya. Padayuna ninyo ang paghimo sang matarong kag ang pagpaubos. Kay basi pa lang indi kamo maano sa adlaw nga ipakita sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kaakig.
“Wala na sing may magaestar sa Gaza kag sa Ashkelon. Ang mga pumuluyo sang mga pumuluyo sang Ashdod palayason sa sulod lang sang tunga sa adlaw, kag ang mga pumuluyo sang mga pumuluyo sang Ekron palayason man sa ila nga banwa.
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga Filistinhon
Gani ang inyo duta nga malapit sa dagat mangin palahalban kag toril sang mga karnero.
Ang inyo duta sakupon sang mga nagkalabilin nga mga katawhan sang Juda. Dira sila magapahalab sang ila mga kasapatan, kag kon gab-i dira sila matulog sa mga balay sa Ashkelon. Dumdumon sila sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios kag ibalik niya ang ila maayo nga kahimtangan.”
Nagsiling si Zefanias, Nagsiling si Zefanias, “Amo ina ang balos sa pagpabugal sang mga taga-Moab kag taga-Ammon. Kay ginapakahuy-an nila kag ginayaguta ang katawhan sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Pahadlukon gid sila sang Ginoo Ginoo kay laglagon niya ang tanan nga dios-dios sa kalibutan. Kag dayon magasimba sa iya ang mga tawo sang kada nasyon sa ila kaugalingon nga lugar.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kamo man nga mga taga-Ethiopia,
“Silutan ko man ang mga taga-Assyria nga ara sa north. Mangin mamingaw ang Nineve
Dira magaluko ang mga baka, kanding, kag ang iban pa nga nagkalain-lain nga sapat. Magahulon ang mga bukaw sa mga nagkalaguba nga haligi, kag ang ila nga huni mabatian sa mga bintana. Magakalaguba ang mga puwertahan kag magakalahukas ang mga kahoy nga sedro.
Amo ina ang matabo sa siyudad sang Nineve, nga ang iya mga pumuluyo nagapabugal nga wala sing may mag-ano sa ila, kag nagasiling sila sa ila kaugalingon, ‘Wala na sang iban pa nga pareho sa aton kagamhanan!’ Pero malaglag sing bug-os ini nga siyudad kag pagaestaran na lang sang talunon nga mga sapat. Kag ang tanan nga tawo nga magaagi sa sina nga siyudad magapakita sang ila pagyaguta sa iya.”
Nagsiling si Zefanias, Nagsiling si Zefanias, “Kaluluoy ang Jerusalem! Ang iya mga pumuluyo nagarebelde sa Dios kag nagahimo sang mahigko nga mga butang, kag ang iya mga pangulo nagapamigos.
Wala sila nagatuman bisan kay sin-o, kag indi sila gusto nga tudluan. Wala sila nagasalig ukon nagapalapit sa Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Ang ila mga opisyal daw pareho sa nagangurob nga leon. Ang ila mga pangulo daw pareho sa mabangis nga ido
Ang ila mga propeta mga dasodaso kag indi masaligan. Ginahigkuan sang ila mga pari ang templo kag ginalapas nila ang Kasuguan sang Dios sang Dios .
Pero Pero ara gihapon ang presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila nga siyudad. Ginahimo sang Ginoo Ginoo ang husto kag wala siya nagahimo sang indi husto. Adlaw-adlaw ginapakita niya kon ano ang husto, kag wala niya ini ginauntatan. Pero ang malain nga mga tawo nagapadayon gihapon sa paghimo sang malain kag nagapadayon gihapon sa paghimo sang malain kag wala sila nahuya.
“ Karon, nagasiling ang Ginoo , Karon, nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Ginlaglag ko ang mga nasyon; gin-guba ko ang ila mga siyudad pati ang mga pader kag mga tore sini. Wala sing may nabilin sa ila mga pumuluyo, gani wala na sang tawo nga makita nga nagalakat sa ila mga karsada.
Tungod sa sining akon ginhimo naghunahuna ako nga tahuron na ako sang akon katawhan kag batunon na nila ang akon pagsaway sa ila, para indi malaglag ang ila siyudad suno sa gintalana ko sa ila. Pero nagpakasala pa gid gani sila tapat.
“ ‘Gani kamo nga matutom nga mga taga-Jerusalem, kamo nga matutom nga mga taga-Jerusalem, hulata lang ninyo ang adlaw nga iakusar ko ang mga nasyon. Tungod kay nagdesisyon na ako nga tipunon ko ang mga nasyon kag mga ginharian para ipakita ko sa ila ang akon puwerte nga kaakig nga pareho sang kalayo nga magalamon sang bilog nga kalibutan.
Kag dayon bag-uhon ko ang mga tawo
Ang akon katawhan nga naglalapta sa unhan sang mga suba sang Ethiopia
“ ‘Sa sina nga adlaw nga magasilot ako nga magasilot ako , kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem nga mga taga-Jerusalem indi mahuy-an sa tanan nga sala nga ginhimo ninyo sa akon. Kay kuhaon ko sa inyo ang mga tawo nga bugalon kag matinaas-taason. Kag indi na kamo magpabugal liwat didto sa akon balaan nga bukid.
Pero bilinan ko ang Jerusalem sang mga tawo nga pigado kag kubos, nga magapangayo sang bulig
Ini sila nga nagkalabilin nga mga Israelinhon indi maghimo sang malain; indi sila magbutig ukon magpangdaya. Magakaon sila kag magatulog nga wala sing may ginakahadlukan.’ ”
Nagsiling si Zefanias, Nagsiling si Zefanias, “Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Israel, maghinugyaw kamo! Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Zion, ang siyudad sang Jerusalem,
Kay Kay indi na kamo pagsilutan sang Ginoo Ginoo . Tabugon niya ang inyo mga kaaway. Kaupod ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang Hari sang Israel, gani wala na kamo sing kahadlukan nga katalagman.
“Sa sina nga adlaw magasiling ang mga tawo sa inyo nga mga taga-Jerusalem, ‘ Mga pumuluyo sang Mga pumuluyo sang Zion, indi kamo magkahadlok; indi kamo magkaluya.
Kay Kay kaupod ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios. Pareho siya sa isa ka gamhanan nga soldado nga magaluwas sa inyo. Malipay gid siya sa inyo, kag paagi sa iya gugma bag-uhon niya ang inyo kabuhi.
“ Nagasiling ang Ginoo , Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , ‘Kuhaon ko ang inyo pag-antos para indi na kamo mahuy-an.
Sa sina nga tion, silutan ko ang tanan nga nagadaogdaog sa inyo. Luwason kag tipunon ko kamo nga pareho sa mga karnero nga pareho sa mga karnero nga nagkalapiang kag naglalapta. Ginpakahuy-an kamo sadto, pero padunggan ko kamo kag himuon nga bantog sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Huo, Huo, tipunon ko kamo sa sina nga tion, kag papulion ko kamo sa inyo duta. Padunggan ko kamo kag himuon nga bantog sa bilog nga kalibutan. Matabo ini Matabo ini sa tion nga ibalik ko ang inyo maayo nga kahimtangan, nga makita ninyo mismo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.’ ”
Sang nahauna nga adlaw sang ikaanom nga bulan, sadtong ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Darius sa Persia sa Persia , may ginhambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Zerubabel kag kay Josue paagi kay Propeta Haggai. Si Zerubabel nga anak ni Shealtiel amo ang gobernador sang Juda, kag si Josue nga anak ni Jehozadak amo ang pangulo nga pari.
Mabatas bala ninyo nga mag-estar sa matahom nga mga balay samtang guba ang templo?
Hunahunaa bala ninyo ang mga nagakalatabo sa inyo.
Madamo ang inyo ginatanom, pero diutay lang ang inyo ginaani. May pagkaon kamo, pero indi bastante. May ilimnon kamo, pero kulang-kulang ini. May bayo kamo, pero indi tuman nga makakuha sang tugnaw. May ginabaton kamo nga suweldo, pero madali lang ini maubos.
Gani hunahunaa ninyo ang mga nagakalatabo sa inyo.
Karon, Karon, magtaklad kamo sa bukid kag magkuha sang mga kahoy kag patinduga liwat ninyo ang templo, para sa sini nga paagi malipay ako kag mapadunggan. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Dako ang inyo ginapaabot nga patubas nga patubas pero diutay lang ang inyo naani ang inyo naani . Kag sang gindala ninyo ini puli ginpierdi ko ini. Ginhimo ko ini tungod kay guba ang akon templo samtang ang kada isa sa inyo masako sa pag-obra sang iya balay.
Gani tungod sa inyo indi na maghatag sing tun-og ang langit kag indi na magpatubas ang duta.
Ginapamala ko ang mga duta kag ang mga bukid. Gani nagakaapektuhan Gani nagakaapektuhan ang mga uyas, duga sang ubas, lana, ang iban pa nga mga patubas, pati ang mga tawo, kag ang ila mga kasapatan kag mga gintanom.”
Nagtuman sa Ginoo Ginoo si Zerubabel nga anak ni Shealtiel, si Josue nga anak ni Jozadak, kag ang tanan nga kapareho nila nga mga Israelinhon nga nakabalik sa Israel halin sa pagkabihag sa Babilonia. Kay ginpamatian nila ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ila Dios paagi kay Propeta Haggai nga ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo sa ila sa ila . Sa sini nga paagi gintahod nila ang Ginoo Ginoo .
Karon, nagsiling sa mga Israelinhon si Haggai nga manughambal sang Ginoo Ginoo , “Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga kaupod ninyo siya.”
Gani gintandog sang Ginoo Ginoo si Zerubabel nga anak ni Shealtiel, si Josue nga anak ni Jozadak, kag ang tanan nga kapareho nila nga mga Israelinhon nga nakabalik sa Israel, sa pagpatindog sang templo sang ila Dios, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Sang ika-21 nga adlaw sang sunod nga bulan.
“Sin-o sa inyo ang nakakita anay sang katahom sang sini nga templo? Ano ang pagtan-aw ninyo sini subong kon ikomparar sadto? Siguro daw wala-wala ini sa inyo.
Pero magpakabakod kamo! Obraha lang ninyo ang templo kay kaupod ninyo ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Amo man ini ang ginpromisa ko sa inyo mga katigulangan mga katigulangan sang nagguwa sila
“ Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling nga sa indi madugay uyugon ko sing kaisa pa gid ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan, ang duta kag ang dagat.
Uyugon ko ang tanan nga nasyon kag pagadal-on nila diri sa templo ang ila mga manggad, gani mapuno ang templo sang malahalon nga mga butang.
Kay ang mga pilak kag mga bulawan akon.
Mas mangin matahom pa ang bag-o nga templo sang sa una. Kag hatagan ko sang maayo nga kahimtangan
May ginhambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Propeta Haggai sang ika-24 nga adlaw sang ikasiyam nga bulan, sadtong ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Darius.
Siling niya, “Pamangkuta ang mga pari kon ano ang ginasiling sang kasuguan parte sini:
Halimbawa, nagadala ang isa ka tawo sang balaan nga karne
Dayon nagpamangkot si Haggai, “Ti ano abi kon ang ini nga mga pagkaon natandog sang tawo nga ginakabig nga mahigko tungod kay nagtandog siya sa patay, mangin mahigko man bala ini nga mga pagkaon?” Nagsabat ang mga pari, “Huo.”
Dayon nagsiling si Haggai, “Amo man sadto sa katawhan sang Israel, siling sang Ginoo Ginoo . Tungod nga nangin mahigko ang ila kabuhi, Tungod nga nangin mahigko ang ila kabuhi, ang bisan ano nga ginhimo nila kag ginhalad sa halaran sa halaran nangin mahigko sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Sugod subong hunahunaa bala ninyo ang mga nagkalatabo sa inyo antes ninyo gin-umpisahan ang pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo .
Kay sadto anay kon magkadto kamo sa tinumpukan sang mga trigo nga nagapaabot nga makakuha sang 20 ka sukob, ang makuha ninyo 10 lang. Kag kon magkadto kamo sa pulugaan sang ubas nga nagapaabot nga makakuha sang 50 ka galon nga bino, ang makuha ninyo 20 lang.
Ginpierdi sang Ginoo Ginoo ang inyo mga gintanom paagi sa mainit nga hangin, peste, kag pagpaulan sang yelo nga daw mga bato, pero wala kamo gihapon magbalik sa iya.
Ika-24 subong nga adlaw sang ikasiyam nga bulan, kag subong natapos ang pundasyon sang templo. Tan-awa ninyo kon ano ang matabo sugod subong.
Bisan wala na sang nabilin nga trigo, kag wala na sing bunga ang ubas kag ang mga kahoy nga higera, pomegranata, kag olibo, sugod subong pakamaayuhon kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Naghambal liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Haggai sang sadto mismo nga adlaw.
Siling niya, “Hambala si Zerubabel nga uyugon ko ang kalangitan kag ang kalibutan.
Pagalaglagon ko ang mga ginharian kag dulaon ko ang ila gahom. Baliskaron ko ang ila ila mga karwahe kag ang mga nagasakay sini. Magakalamatay ang mga kabayo kag magapinatyanay ang mga manugkabayo nga silahanon man lang.
Hambala man si Zerubabel nga akon alagad nga padumalahon ko siya sa sina nga adlaw. Magadumala siya paagi sa akon awtoridad, kay siya ang akon pinili. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.”
May ginhambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Propeta Zacarias sang ikawalo nga bulan sang ikaduha nga tuig sang paghari ni Darius sa Persia sa Persia . Si Zacarias nga ini anak ni Berekia kag apo ni Iddo.
Indi ninyo pagsunda ang ginhimo sang inyo mga katigulangan. Ginsugo ko sadto ang mga propeta nga hambalan sila nga talikdan na nila ang ila malain nga mga ginahimo, pero wala sila nagpati. Wala gid sila nagtuman sa akon.
Ang inyo mga katigulangan kag ang ato nga mga propeta nagkalamatay na.
Natabo gid man sa inyo mga katigulangan ang akon mga pulong kag mga paandam nga ginpasugid ko sa akon mga alagad nga mga propeta. Dayon naghinulsol sila kag nagsiling, ‘Ginsilutan kita sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom suno sa aton mga ginhimo, pareho sang iya ginplano nga himuon sa aton.’ ”
Nagpamangkot ako sa anghel nga nagapakig-estorya sa akon, “Sir, ano ang buot silingon sang sini nga mga manugkabayo?” Nagsabat siya, “Ipaathag ko sa imo ang buot silingon sini.”
Dayon ang tawo nga ara sa may mga kahoy nga mirto amo ang nagpaathag sini sa akon. Siling niya, “Inang mga manugkabayo ginpadala sang Ginoo Ginoo sa paglibot sa bilog nga kalibutan.”
Dayon nagpanugid ang mga manugkabayo sa anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo nga ara sa may mga kahoy nga mirto. Siling nila, “Nalibot namon ang bilog nga kalibutan kag nakita namon nga malinong ini.”
Dayon nagsiling ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo , “ Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, sa sulod sang 70 ka tuig akig ka sa Jerusalem kag sa iban pa nga mga banwa sang Juda. Hasta san-o mo pa bala sila nga indi pagkaluoyan?”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa anghel nga nagapakig-estorya sa akon. Ang iya sabat maayo kag makapalipay.
Ini nga anghel nagsiling sa akon nga isugid ko ining ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom: “Nagakabalaka gid ako sa Jerusalem nga ginatawag man nga Zion,
pero akig gid ako sa mga nasyon nga nagapatawhay-tawhay lang.
Nagsiling ang anghel nga isugid ko pa gid ining ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom: “Magauswag liwat ang akon mga banwa sa Juda sa Juda . Kag lipayon ko liwat ang Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem, kag kabigon ko ini liwat nga akon pinili nga siyudad.”
Dayon nakita ko ang apat ka sungay.
Nagpamangkot ako sa anghel nga nagapakig-estorya sa akon, “Ano ang buot silingon sang sini nga mga sungay?” Nagsabat siya sa akon, “Ini nga mga sungay amo ang mga nasyon nga nagpalapta sa mga taga-Israel kag taga-Juda, pati na sa mga taga-Jerusalem.”
Dayon ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon ang apat ka panday.
Nagpamangkot ako, “Ano ang ila himuon?” Nagsabat siya, “Pahadlukon nila kag wasakon ang mga sungay. Ini nga mga sungay amo ang mga nasyon nga naglaglag sing bug-os sa Juda kag nagpalapta sang iya mga pumuluyo.”
Dayon nakita ko ang isa ka tawo nga may ginauyatan nga higot nga inugtakos.
Nagpamangkot ako, “Diin ka makadto?” Nagsabat siya sa akon, “Sa Jerusalem, sa pagtakos kon daw ano ini kasangkad kag kalaba.”
Dayon naghalin ang anghel nga nagapakig-estorya sa akon. Ginsugata siya sang isa pa gid ka anghel
kag nagsiling sa iya, “Dali, hambala atong pamatan-on nga may higot nga inugtakos nga may higot nga inugtakos nga ang Jerusalem mangin isa ka siyudad nga wala sing mga pader tungod sa sobra nga kadamuon sang iya mga pumuluyo kag mga kasapatan.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga siya mismo ang mangin pader nga kalayo nga magapalibot sa siyudad sang Jerusalem, kag siya ang mangin gahom sang sini nga siyudad.”
Pagkatapos nga nakita ko atong mga palanan-awon,
Kon matabo na ini, mahibaluan ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom amo ang nagpadala sa akon.
Panag-iyahan liwat liwat sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Juda bilang iya parte sa balaan nga duta sang Israel sang Israel . Kag kabigon niya liwat ang Jerusalem nga iya pinili nga siyudad.
Maglinong ang tanan nga tawo sa presensya sang Ginoo Ginoo , kay nagapadulong siya halin sa iya balaan nga puluy-an.
Dayon ginpakita sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon ang pangulo nga pari nga si Josue nga nagatindog sa atubangan sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo . Nagatindog sa iya tuo nga kilid si Satanas nga handa sa pag-akusar sa iya.
Pero nagsiling ang anghel sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo kay Satanas, “Suno sa Ginoo Ginoo nga nagpili sang Jerusalem, sala ka gid Satanas. Kay ining tawo nga si Josue ginluwas niya sa pagkabihag pareho sa nga si Josue ginluwas niya sa pagkabihag pareho sa gatong nga ginsabnit sa kalayo.”
Mahigko ang bayo ni Josue samtang nagatindog siya sa atubangan sang anghel.
Gani nagsiling ang anghel sa iban nga iban nga mga anghel nga anghel nga nagatindog sa atubangan niya, “Ubaha ninyo ang iya mahigko nga bayo.” Dayon nagsiling siya kay Josue, “Ginkuha ko na ang imo mga sala. Karon, suksukan ko ikaw sang bag-o nga bayo.”
Kag nagsiling ako, “Suksuki man ninyo siya sang limpyo nga turban sa ulo.” Gani ginpasuksukan nila siya sang bayo kag sang limpyo nga turban samtang nagatindog ang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagatan-aw.
Dayon ginbilinan sang anghel sang Ginoo Ginoo si Josue
sang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom: “Kon magsunod ka sa akon mga pamaagi kag magtuman sang akon mga ginapatuman, magapangulo ka sa akon templo kag sang mga ugsaran sini. Kag tugutan ko ikaw nga makapalapit sa akon presensya pareho sang sini nga mga anghel nga anghel nga nagatindog diri.
Karon, pamati ka Josue nga pangulo nga pari: Ikaw kag ang imo kapareho nga mga pari tanda sang palaabuton nga mga hitabo. Igapahayag ko ang akon alagad nga ginatawag Sanga.
Josue, tan-awa ang bato nga ginbutang ko sa imo atubangan, may pito ini ka mata.
Sa sina nga adlaw magakabuhi kamo nga malinong magakabuhi kamo nga malinong . Ang kada isa sa inyo magaagda sang iya kasilingan sa pagpungko sa idalom sang iya tanom nga ubas kag kahoy nga higera. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.”
Nagbalik ang anghel nga nagpakig-estorya sa akon kag ginpukaw niya ako kay daw sa natulugan ako.
Nagpamangkot siya sa akon, “Ano ang nakita mo?” Nagsabat ako, “Nakita ko ang isa ka bulawan nga bulutangan sang suga.
May duha ka kahoy nga olibo sa kilid sini; ang isa sa tuo sang yahong kag ang isa sa wala.”
Dayon nagpamangkot ako sa anghel, “Sir, ano ang buot silingon sina?” Nagsabat siya,
“Wala ka bala kahibalo kon ano ang buot silingon sina?” Nagsabat ako, “Wala, sir.”
“ Zerubabel, matapos mo ang pagpatindog sang templo Zerubabel, matapos mo ang pagpatindog sang templo indi paagi sa kusog ukon ikasarang sang tawo kundi paagi sa akon Espiritu.
Bisan pareho kadako sa bukid ang kasablagan nga imo ginaatubang, pagatapanon ina. Matapos gid ang templo, Matapos gid ang templo, kag samtang ginabutang ang katapusan nga bato sini, magasinggit ang mga tawo, ‘ Ginoo Ginoo , pakamaayuha ini!’ ”
Gani paagi sa anghel, paagi sa anghel, ginhambal sang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon
nga matapos ang templo sa pagdumala ni Zerubabel, subong nga natukod ang pundasyon sini sa iya nga pagdumala. Kag kon matabo na ina mahibaluan ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom amo ang nagpadala sa akon sa inyo.
Dayon nagsiling sa akon ang anghel, nagsiling sa akon ang anghel, “Inang pito ka suga nagarepresentar sang mata sang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagatan-aw sa bilog nga kalibutan.”
Nagpamangkot ako sa anghel, “Ano ang buot silingon sinang duha ka kahoy nga olibo sa tuo kag sa wala sang bulutangan sang suga?
Kag ano ang buot silingon sinang duha ka sanga sang kahoy nga olibo sa kilid sang duha ka bulawan nga tubo nga ginaagyan sang lana nga kolor bulawan?”
Nagsabat siya, “Wala ka bala kahibalo kon ano ang buot silingon sina?” Nagsabat ako, “Wala, sir.”
Gani nagsiling siya, “Nagakahulugan ina sang duha ka tawo
Nakita ko pa gid ang linukot nga kasulatan nga nagalupad.
Nagpamangkot ang anghel sa akon, “Ano ang nakita mo?” Nagsabat ako, “Nakita ko ang linukot nga kasulatan nga nagalupad, nga may kalabaon nga mga 30 feet kag may kasangkaron nga mga 15 feet.”
Dayon nagsiling ang anghel sa akon, “Nasulat sa sini nga kasulatan ang pagpakamalaot nga magaabot sa bilog nga duta sang Israel sang Israel . Sa pihak sang kasulatan nagasiling nga ang tagsa ka makawat pagadulaon sa Israel sa Israel , kag sa pihak naman nagasiling nga ang kada isa nga nagasumpa sing butig pagadulaon man.
Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ‘Ipadala ko ini nga pagpakamalaot kag magasulod ini sa balay sang makawat kag sa balay sang nagasumpa sing butig sa akon ngalan. Magapabilin ini sa ila mga balay hasta nga magkalaguba ina.’ ”
Nagpakita liwat ang anghel nga nagpakig-estorya sa akon kag nagsiling, “Tan-awa bala kon ano inang nagapadulong.”
Nagpamangkot ako, “Ano ina?” Nagsabat siya, “Kaing.” Kag nagsiling pa gid siya, “Nagakahulugan ina sang sala
Ang kaing may takop nga tingga. Kag sang pag-alsa sang takop, nakita ko nga may babayi nga nagapungko sa sulod sang kaing.
Nagsiling ang anghel, “Ina nga babayi nagarepresentar sang kalautan.” Kag ginduso niya ang babayi pabalik sa kaing kag ginsira dayon ang takop.
Dayon nakita ko ang duha ka babayi nga nagalupad sing madasig, nga may malapad nga malapad nga mga pakpak nga pareho sang iya ka dugwak.
Nagpamangkot ako sa anghel nga nagapakig-estorya sa akon, “Diin nila dal-on ang kaing?”
Nagsabat siya, “Sa Babilonia,
Nakita ko pa gid ang apat ka karwahe nga nagapaguwa sa tunga sang duha ka bukid nga saway.
Ang una nga karwahe ginaguyod sang pula nga mga kabayo, ang ikaduha ginaguyod sang itom nga mga kabayo,
ang ikatatlo ginaguyod sang puti nga mga kabayo, kag ang ikaapat ginaguyod sang kambang nga mga kabayo. Makusog sila tanan.
Nagpamangkot ako sa anghel nga nagapakig-estorya sa akon, “Sir, ano ang buot silingon sinang mga karwahe?”
Nagsabat ang anghel sa akon, “Ina sila amo ang apat ka hangin sa kahawaan
Ang karwahe nga ginaguyod sang itom nga mga kabayo nagapakadto sa isa ka lugar sa north. Ang karwahe nga ginaguyod sang puti nga mga kabayo nagapakadto sa west.
Sang nagapadulong pa lang ang makusog nga mga kabayo, nagadali sila sa paglibot sa bilog nga kalibutan. Nagsiling ang anghel
Dayon naghambal sing mabaskog ang Ginoo Ginoo
“Kuhaa ang mga pilak kag mga bulawan nga regalo ang mga pilak kag mga bulawan nga regalo nila ni Heldai, Tobia kag Jedaya, kag lakat ka dayon sa balay ni Josia nga anak ni Zefanias. Ini sila nga apat nga apat nakabalik halin sa pagkabihag sa Babilonia.
Ipahimo mo nga korona inang mga pilak kag mga bulawan. Dayon ibutang mo ang korona sa ulo sang pangulo nga pari nga si Josue nga anak ni Jehozadak.
Mangin handumanan ang korona sa akon templo sa pagdumdom kanday Heldai,
Ang mga tawo nga halin sa malayo nga mga lugar magakadto sa Israel kag magbulig sa pagpatindog sang templo sang Ginoo Ginoo . Kon matabo na ini, mahibaluan ninyo nga ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom amo ang nagpadala sa akon sa inyo. Kag matabo gid ini kon tumanon ninyo sing maayo ang Ginoo Ginoo nga inyo Dios.
May ginhambal ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Zacarias sang ikaapat nga adlaw sang bulan sang Kislev (ikasiyam nga bulan), sadtong ikaapat nga tuig sang paghari ni Darius.
Kag amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom kay Zacarias:
“Hambala ang tanan nga katawhan sang Israel pati ang mga pari, nga ang ila pagpuasa kag pagpangasubo sa kada ikalima kag ikapito nga bulan sa sulod sang 70 ka tuig wala nila ginahimo para sa akon.
Kag kon magkaon sila kag mag-inom, ginahimo nila ina para lang sa ila kaugalingon nga kalipayan.
Amo man ini ang mensahi nga ginpahambal ko sa mga propeta sadto, sang panahon nga mainuswagon pa ang Jerusalem kag madamo pa ini sang tawo pati ang mga banwa sa palibot sini, kag pati ang Negev
Nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo kay Zacarias,
“Amo ini ang akon ginsiling sa akon katawhan sa akon katawhan : ‘Maghukom kamo sing husto. Ipakita ninyo ang kaayo kag kaluoy sa isa kag isa.
Indi ninyo pagdaog-daugon ang mga balo nga babayi, mga ilo, mga imol, kag ang mga pangayaw. Indi kamo maghunahuna sing malain kontra sa isa kag isa.’
“Pero wala gid sila magsapak sa akon ginsiling. Ginsikway nila ini kag wala nila ginpamatian.
Ginpatig-a nila ang ila mga tagipusuon pareho sang bato, kag wala sila magpamati sa Kasuguan kag sa mga pulong nga ginpasugid sang akon Espiritu sa mga propeta sadto. Gani ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, akig gid katama.
Kag tungod nga wala sila magpamati sang akon ginsiling, indi man ako magpamati kon magpanawag sila sa akon.
Daw pareho ako sa buhawi nga nagpalapta sa ila sa iban nga mga nasyon nga wala pa nila makadtui. Ginbayaan nila ang ila maayo nga duta nga indi na mapuslan kag indi na maestaran.”
Mabalik ako sa Zion, ang siyudad sang siyudad sang Jerusalem, kag magaestar dira. Dayon pagatawgon ang Jerusalem nga Matutom nga Siyudad kag pagatawgon ang akon bukid
Sa liwat magapungko sa mga plasa sang Jerusalem ang mga tigulang nga nagasungkod sa puwerte nga katigulangon.
Kag mapuno ang mga plasa sang mga kabataan nga nagahampang.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Siguro daw imposible ini para sa akon katawhan nga nagkalabilin, pero indi ini imposible sa akon.
Luwason ko ang akon katawhan nga ginbihag sa mga duta sa east kag sa west.
Dal-on ko sila pabalik sa Jerusalem kag paestaron didto. Sa liwat Sa liwat sila mangin akon katawhan kag ako mangin ila Dios nga matutom kag matarong.”
Nagsiling pa gid ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Ini nga mensahi ginhambal man sang mga propeta sang tion nga gintukod liwat liwat ang pundasyon sang akon templo. Kag karon nga nabatian naman ninyo ini, magpakabakod kamo para matapos ninyo ang pagpatindog sang templo.
Sang wala pa masugdan ang pagpatindog liwat sang templo, mabudlay ang inyo kahimtangan pati ang kahimtangan sang mga sapat. Wala kamo sing suweldo kag delikado bisan diin tungod kay ginpaaway ko ang mga tawo.
Pero karon, ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling nga indi ko na ina paghimuon sa inyo nga mga nagkalabilin.
Magatanom kamo nga may kalinong.
Mga katawhan sang Juda kag Israel, ginapakamalaot kamo sang iban nga mga nasyon. Pero luwason ko kamo kag mangin pagpakamaayo kamo sa ila sa ila . Gani indi kamo magkahadlok kundi magpakabakod kamo.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Sang ginpaakig ako sang inyo nga katigulangan, nagdesisyon ako nga silutan ko kamo kag indi pagkaluoyan.
Pero karon nagdesisyon ako nga magmaayo ako liwat sa Jerusalem kag Juda. Gani indi kamo magkahadlok.
Amo ini ang dapat ninyo himuon: Magsugid kamo sing matuod sa isa kag isa. Maghukom kamo sing husto sa korte para sa kaayuhan sang tanan.
Indi kamo magplano sing malain kontra sa inyo isigkatawo, kag indi kamo magsagi sumpa sing butig. Kay ginakaugtan ko ina tanan nga butang.”
Madamo nga katawhan halin sa nagkalain-lain nga siyudad ang magakadto sa Jerusalem sa Jerusalem .
Ang mga pumuluyo sang isa ka siyudad magakadto sa isa ka siyudad kag magasiling, ‘Malakat kami sa pagpangamuyo kag sa pagdangop sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom. Dali, upod kamo!’
“Madamo nga katawhan halin sa gamhanan nga mga nasyon ang magakadto sa Jerusalem sa pagpangamuyo kag sa pagdangop sa akon.
Kag sa sina nga tion, ang napulo ka tawo nga halin sa iban nga mga nasyon nga may nagkalain-lain nga lingguahe magakadto sa isa ka Judio kag magasiling, ‘Gusto gid namon nga mag-upod sa inyo, tungod nabatian namon nga ang Dios kaupod ninyo.’ ”
Nagasiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga silutan niya ang mga siyudad sang Hadrac kag Damascus,
Silutan man sang Ginoo Ginoo ang Hamat, nga katupad nga siyudad sang Hadrac kag sang Damascus, kag ang mga siyudad sang Tyre kag Sidon, bisan pa nga ang mga pumuluyo sini maabilidad.
Nagpatindog ang mga pumuluyo sang Tyre sang pamakod nga mga pader, kag nagtipon sila sang mga pilak kag mga bulawan nga pareho lang nga nagtumpok sila sang duta.
Pero kuhaon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ila mga pagkabutang kag ihaboy niya ang ila manggad sa dagat. Kag ang ila siyudad pagalamunon sang kalayo.
Makita ina sang mga pumuluyo sang Ashkelon kag mahadlukan sila. Magalubid sa kasakit ang mga pumuluyo sang Gaza, kag amo man ang mga pumuluyo sang Ekron kay ang ila ginasaligan madula. Mapatay ang hari sang Gaza, kag ang Ashkelon indi na maestaran.
Ang Ashdod pagaestaran sang mga tawo nga nagkalain-lain ang lahi. Pagalaglagon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang ginapabugal sang mga Filistinhon.
Indi na sila magkaon sang karne nga may dugo
Protektaran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya templo
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Maghinugyaw kamo sing tudo sa kalipay, kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Zion, ang siyudad sang Jerusalem,
Dulaon ko na ang pag-ilinaway Dulaon ko na ang pag-ilinaway . Kuhaon ko ang pang-inaway nga mga karwahe kag mga kabayo sa Israel kag sa Juda
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo , Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Kon parte sa inyo nga mga Israelinhon nga mga Israelinhon , hilwayon ko ang mga nabihag sa inyo. Daw pareho sila sa tawo nga ginhulog sa bubon nga wala sing tubig. Hilwayon ko sila Hilwayon ko sila tungod sang akon kasugtanan sa inyo nga ginpabakod paagi sa dugo.
Kamo nga mga nabihag nga nagalaom nga mahilway, magbalik na kamo sa inyo mabakod nga mga lugar. Karon nagasiling ako sa inyo nga ibalik ko sing doble ang mga nadula sa inyo.
Gamiton ko ang Juda nga daw pareho sang pana kag ang Israel nga daw pareho sang baslay.
Dayon magapakita ang Ginoo Ginoo sa ibabaw sang iya katawhan. Magakirab ang iya baslay pareho sang kilat. Patunugon sang Ginoong Dios Dios ang budyong; kag magaabot siya upod sa bagyo nga halin sa south.
Protektaran sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom ang iya katawhan. Tasak-tasakon lang nila ang mga bato nga ginalabyog sa ila sang ila mga kaaway sang ila mga kaaway . Magakinaon sila kag magaininom sa pagselebrar sang ila kadalag-an sa pagselebrar sang ila kadalag-an . Magahinugyaw sila nga daw sa mga hubog. Mapuno ang ila tiyan sang ilimnon pareho sang yahong nga puno sang dugo nga ginawisik-wisik sa mga corner sang halaran.
Pangayo sa Ginoo Ginoo sang ulan sa tion sang inugtubo sang mga tanom,
Sa pagkamatuod, indi mapatihan ang mga dios-dios kag ang mga manugpakot. Nagasugid sila sang sala nga kahulugan sang mga damgo. Wala sing pulos ang pagpabakod nga ginahatag nila. Gani nagatalang-talang ang katawhan sang Israel sang Israel pareho sang karnero. Nabudlayan sila tungod nga wala sila sing pangulo.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo , Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Akig gid ako sa mga nagapangulo
Magahalin sa ila ang mga manugdumala nga pareho sang pamusod nga bato, palpal sang tolda, kag pana nga para sa inaway.
Magaisa ang katawhan sang Juda kag mangin pareho sila sa makusog nga mga soldado nga magapierdi sang ila mga kaaway nga daw sa lutak nga ginatasak-tasak sa karsada. Magapakig-away sila tungod kaupod nila ako, kag pierdihon nila ang mga manugkabayo.
“Pabakuron ko ang katawhan sang Juda kag pagaluwason ko ang katawhan sang Israel.
Ang katawhan sang Israel
Pagatawgon ko ang akon katawhan kag tipunon ko sila. Hilwayon ko gid sila, kag magadamo sila pareho sang una.
Bisan ginlapta ko sila sa iban nga mga nasyon, madumduman nila ako didto. Magapabilin sila nga buhi pati ang ila mga kabataan, kag magapuli sila sa ila lugar.
Papulion ko sila halin sa Egypt kag Assyria, kag paestaron ko sila sa ila lugar sa ila lugar hasta sa Gilead kag sa Lebanon. Magasulubra sila sa ila nga duta.
Magatabok sila sa dagat nga mabalod pero magauntat ang mga balod. Kag bisan ang Suba sang Nilo magamala. Ang ginapabugal sang Assyria paubuson kag ang gahom sang Egypt madula.
Pabakuron ko ang akon katawhan tungod nga ara sila sa akon, kag magasunod sila sa akon. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , ang nagasiling sini.”
Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Lebanon, buksi ninyo ang mga puwertahan sang inyo mga banwa para makasulod ang kalayo nga magasunog sang inyo mga kahoy nga sedro.
Kag subong nga nagkalapierdi ang matahom kag madabong nga mga kahoy nga sedro, magakalapierdi man ang mga kahoy nga sipres kag ang mga kahoy nga terebinto sang Bashan.
Nagahibi ang mga manugbantay sang karnero kay nagkalapierdi ang ila matambok nga mga palahalban. Nagangurob ang mga leon
“Tatapa ang ilihawon nga mga karnero.
Ang mga nagabakal kag nagaihaw sa ila wala ginasiluti. Ang mga nagabaligya sa ila nagasiling, ‘Dalayawon ang Ginoo Ginoo ! Manggaranon na ako!’ Bisan ang ila mga manugbantay wala naluoy sa ila.
“ Tatapa ang akon katawhan Tatapa ang akon katawhan kay ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga indi ko na pagkaluoyan ang mga tawo sa kalibutan.
Gani gintatap ko ang mga karnero nga ilihawon sang mga negosyante sang mga karnero.
Ginpahalin ko ang tatlo ka manugbantay sang karnero sa sulod sang isa ka bulan. Kay naubusan ako sang pasensya sa ila,
Dayon nagsiling ako sa mga karnero sa mga karnero , “Indi na ako ang inyo manugbantay. Pabay-i nga mapatay ang daw mapatay na sa inyo, kag pabay-i nga malaglag ang daw malaglag na sa inyo. Kag ang nabilin pabay-i nga magkan-anay sang unod sang isa kag isa.”
Dayon ginkuha ko ang baston nga ginatawag Kaayo kag ginbali ko ini bilang simbolo nga gindula sang Ginoo Ginoo ang iya kasugtanan sa tanan nga katawhan.
Gani sa sina nga adlaw gindula ang ina nga kasugtanan. Kag ang mga negosyante sang mga karnero
Ginsilingan ko sila, “Kon sa hunahuna ninyo dapat ako suhulan, ihatag ninyo ang akon suhol. Pero kon indi, sa inyo na lang ina.” Gani ginbayaran nila ako sang 30 ka bilog nga pilak bilang akon suhol.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Ipilak ang ina nga kuwarta sa talaguan sang kuwarta
Dayon ginbali ko ang ikaduha nga baston nga ginatawag Pag-isa bilang simbolo nga nautod ang maayo nga relasyon sang Juda kag Israel.
Nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo Ginoo sa akon, “Magpakuno-kuno ka nga isa ikaw ka manugbantay sang karnero nga wala sing pulos.
Kay may ibutang ako nga pangulo sa duta sang Israel sang Israel nga pareho sa isa ka manugbantay sang karnero nga wala sing pulos nga wala sing pulos : indi niya pagbuligan ang mga karnero nga daw mapatay na,
Kaluluoy inang manugbantay sang karnero nga wala sing pulos. Ginapabay-an lang niya ang mga karnero! Labuon sang espada ang iya kamot kag tuslukon sang espada ang iya tuo nga mata, kag indi na gid mapuslan ang iya kamot kag indi na gid makakita ang iya tuo nga mata.”
Amo ini ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo parte sa Israel: “Ako ang Ginoo Ginoo nga naghimo sang kalangitan kag sang kalibutan, kag naghatag sang kabuhi sa tawo.
Pagahimuon ko ang Jerusalem nga pareho sa ilimnon nga magahubog sa mga nasyon sa palibot sini. Kag kon salakayon na nila ang Jerusalem, salakayon man nila ang iban nga mga banwa sang Juda.
Sa sina nga adlaw, himuon ko ang Jerusalem nga pareho sang mabug-at nga bato, kag ang bisan ano nga nasyon nga maghakwat sini masakitan gid. Ang tanan nga nasyon sa kalibutan magatipon sa pagsalakay sa Jerusalem.
Pero pahadlukon ko ang tanan nila nga mga kabayo kag pasalasalahon ko ang ila mga manugkabayo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , nagasiling nga bantayan ko ang katawhan sang Juda, pero bulagon ko ang tanan nga kabayo sang mga nasyon.
Kag magasiling ang mga pangulo
“Sa sina man nga adlaw, himuon ko ang mga pangulo sang Juda nga daw pareho sang nagakalayo nga balagahan sa may tinumpok nga mga kahoy ukon pareho sang nagadabadaba nga sulo sa may binugkos nga mga uhay. Laglagon nila ang mga nasyon sa palibot nila. Pero indi maano ang katawhan sang Jerusalem sa ila lugar.
Una nga padaugon ko ang iban nga mga banwa sang iban nga mga banwa sang Juda, para indi maglabaw ang dungog sang mga kaliwat ni David kag sang pumuluyo sang Jerusalem sang sa iban nga mga banwa sang iban nga mga banwa sang Juda.
Sa sina nga adlaw, protektaran sang Ginoo Ginoo ang mga nagaestar sa Jerusalem agod bisan pa ang pinakamaluya sa ila mangin daw pareho kay David kakusog kakusog . Ang mga kaliwat ni David mangin daw pareho sa Dios,
Sa sina nga adlaw, laglagon ko ang tanan nga nasyon nga nagasalakay sa Jerusalem.
“Hatagan ko ang mga kaliwat ni David kag ang mga pumuluyo sang Jerusalem sang espiritu nga maluluy-on kag mapinangamuyuon. Tan-awon nila ako
Sa sina nga adlaw puwerte gid ang paghinibi sa Jerusalem, pareho sang paghinibi para kay Hadad Rimon
Kag kon may ara pa nga magpakapropeta, ang iya amay kag iloy magpaandam sa iya nga dapat siya patyon, tungod kay nagasugid siya sang butig kag nagasiling pa siya nga ina halin sa Ginoo Ginoo . Kon magpakapropeta pa siya, bun-on siya sang iya amay ukon iloy.
Ina nga mga propeta mahuy-an sa ila ginasiling nga palanan-awon. Indi na sila magsuksok sang bayo sang propeta nga hinimo halin sa bulbol sang sapat para magpangdaya
kundi magasiling sila, ‘Indi ako propeta. Mangunguma ako, kag amo ini ang akon trabaho halin sang bata pa ako.
Kon may magpamangkot sa ila parte sa mga pilas
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Ipreparar ang espada! Patya ang akon manugbantay sang mga karnero,
Mapatay ang duha sa tatlo ka parte
Ang ikatatlo nga parte nga mabilin pagatinluan ko pareho sang pilak nga ginapapuraw sa kalayo. Kag tilawan ko sila pareho sang bulawan nga ginatilawan sa kalayo kon puro ukon indi. Magapangamuyo sila sa akon kag pamatian ko sila. Magasiling ako, ‘Sila ang akon katawhan,’ kag magasiling man sila, ‘Ang Ginoo Ginoo ang amon Dios.’ ”
Magaabot ang adlaw nga magahukom ang Ginoo Ginoo . Partidahon sang mga kaaway sang mga kaaway ang mga pagkabutang nga ginpang-agaw nila sa inyo nga mga taga-Jerusalem nga mga taga-Jerusalem , kag magatulok lang kamo.
Kay pagatipunon sang Ginoo Ginoo ang tanan nga nasyon sa pagpakig-away sa Jerusalem. Agawon nila ang ini nga siyudad, kuhaon nila ang mga pagkabutang sa mga balay, kag luguson nila ang mga babayi. Dal-on sa iban nga lugar ang katunga sang mga pumuluyo sang siyudad, pero ang iban ibilin sa siyudad.
Dayon magapakig-away ang Ginoo Ginoo kontra sa sadto nga mga nasyon, pareho sang pagpakig-away niya sang una.
Sa sina nga adlaw, magatindog siya sa Bukid sang mga Olibo, sa east sang Jerusalem. Mapihak ang ini nga bukid halin sa east pakadto sa west. Ang katunga sang bukid maidog pa-north kag ang katunga pa gid maidog pa-south, kag mangin malapad nga patag ang sa tunga sini.
Magapalagyo kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem nga mga taga-Jerusalem paagi sa sini nga patag, kay ini nga patag magalambot hasta sa Azel. Magapalagyo kamo pareho sang ginhimo sang inyo mga katigulangan sang maglinog sang panahon ni Haring Uzia sang Juda. Kag magaabot ang Ginoo Ginoo nga akon Dios kaupod sang tanan niya nga anghel.
Sa sina nga adlaw wala sing init kag tugnaw.
Pinasahi ini nga adlaw, kay wala sing gab-i kundi permi lang adlaw. Ang Ginoo Ginoo lang ang nakahibalo kon san-o
Sa sina man nga adlaw magailig ang preska nga tubig halin sa Jerusalem. Ang katunga sini magailig sa Patay nga Dagat
Ang Ginoo Ginoo ang mangin hari sang bilog nga kalibutan. Siya lang ang kilalahon nga Dios kag wala na sing iban pa.
Amo ini ang kahalitan nga ipadala sang Ginoo Ginoo sa tanan nga nasyon nga nagpakig-away sa Jerusalem: Magakadunot ang ila lawas, mata kag dila samtang buhi pa sila.
Dayon ang tanan nga mabilin sa mga nasyon nga nagsalakay sa Jerusalem magataklad sa sini nga siyudad kada tuig sa pagsimba sa Hari, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, kag sa pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag.
Ang mga katawhan nga indi magkadto sa Jerusalem sa pagsimba sa Hari, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, indi pagpadal-an sang ulan.
Ang mga katawhan sang Egypt nga indi magkadto sa Jerusalem sa Jerusalem padal-an
Amo ina ang silot sa Egypt kag sa tanan nga nasyon nga indi magkadto sa Jerusalem sa Jerusalem sa pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag.
Sa sina nga adlaw nga magsimba ang mga nasyon sa Ginoo nga magsimba ang mga nasyon sa Ginoo Ginoo , igasulat sa mga kilingkiling sang mga kabayo ang mga pulong nga gindedikar sa ginoo gindedikar sa ginoo
Kag ang tagsa ka lulutuan sa Jerusalem kag Juda mangin balaan para sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom. Gamiton ini sang mga manughalad para lutuan sang ila mga halad. Kag sa sina nga adlaw wala na sing mga negosyante
Amo ini ang mensahi sang Ginoo Ginoo para sa mga taga-Israel paagi kay Malakias.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Ginahigugma ko kamo. Pero nagapamangkot pa kamo, ‘Paano mo kami ginahigugma?’ Dumduma ninyo nga bisan mag-utod si Esau kag si Jacob, ginhigugma
pero si Esau ya wala. Ginlaglag ko ang iya mga kabukiran, gani nangin elistaran na lang ini sang talunon nga mga ido.
“Kon magsiling ang mga Edomnon nga mga kaliwat ni Esau nga mga kaliwat ni Esau , ‘Bisan naguba ang amon lugar patindugon namon ini liwat,’ ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, magasiling nga, ‘Bisan patindugon pa nila ang ila lugar gub-on ko man ini gihapon. Pagatawgon sila nga “malain nga nasyon” kag “katawhan nga permi ginakaugtan sang Ginoo Ginoo .”
Makita gid ninyo ang ila pagkalaglag kag magasiling kamo, “Gamhanan ang Ginoo Ginoo bisan sa guwa sang Israel.” ’ ”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa mga pari, “Ang anak nagatahod sa iya amay, kag ang ulipon nagatahod sa iya amo. Pero ngaa ako nga inyo amay kag agalon wala ninyo ginatahod? Ginainsulto pa ninyo ako. Pero nagapamangkot pa kamo, ‘Paano ka namon ginainsulto?’
Ginainsulto ninyo ako paagi sa paghalad sang mahigko
Amo gani nga nagahalad kamo sang mga sapat nga bulag, piang, ukon masakiton. Indi ina husto! Tilawi bala ninyo nga hatagan ang inyo gobernador sang pareho sina nga klase sang mga sapat. Sigurado gid nga indi siya malipay sa inyo kag indi niya kamo pagpakitaan sang kaayo.” Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Nagsiling si Malakias, Nagsiling si Malakias, “Karon, kamo nga mga pari, pangabaya ninyo ang Dios nga kaluoyan niya kita. Pero sa sina nga klase sang mga halad nga ginahalad ninyo sa iya, sigurado gid nga indi niya kamo pagpakitaan sang kaayo. Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Kuntani may isa sa inyo nga mga pari nga magsira sang mga puwertahan sang akon templo sang akon templo , para indi na kamo magpadukot sang wala sing pulos nga kalayo sa akon halaran. Indi ko pagbatunon ang inyo mga halad, tungod kay wala ako malipay sa inyo.
Sa pagkamatuod, ginadayaw ang akon ngalan sang mga nasyon, halin sa east hasta sa west.
Pero kamo ya ginapakahuy-an ninyo ang akon ngalan paagi sa pagsiling nga mahigko ang akon halaran
Kag nagasiling pa kamo nga natak-an na kamo sa paghalad sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, kag ginapakawalay pulos ninyo ang akon halaran.
Pakamalauton ko ang dayaon sa inyo, nga nagpromisa nga maghalad sang maayo nga sapat pero ang iya ginhalad sa akon may deperensya. Pakamalauton ko siya Pakamalauton ko siya kay ako ang gamhanan nga hari kag ginatahod ako sang mga nasyon. Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.”
“Pamati kamo! Tungod sa inyo pagasilutan ko ang inyo mga kaliwat. Kag laptahon ko sa inyo mga guya ang ipot sang mga sapat nga inyo ginhalad, kag ihaboy man kamo sa halabuyan sang ipot.
Dapat mahibaluan ninyo nga ginapaandaman ko kamo sini para makapadayon ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo katigulangan nga si inyo katigulangan nga si Levi.
Sa akon kasugtanan kay Levi, ginpromisahan ko siya sang kabuhi
Gintudlo niya ang kamatuoran kag indi ang kabutigan. Maayo ang iya relasyon sa akon kag nagkabuhi siya nga matarong. Kag madamo nga tawo ang iya ginbuligan nga indi na magpakasala.
“Sa pagkamatuod, katungdanan ninyo nga mga pari ang pagtudlo sa mga tawo nga mahibaluan nila ang parte sa akon. Kag dapat magpatudlo sila sa inyo kay kamo ang akon mga mensahero.
Pero wala ninyo pagsunda ang akon pamaagi. Ang inyo pagpanudlo nagtulod sa madamo nga tawo sa pagpakasala. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, nagasiling nga ginlapas ninyo ang akon kasugtanan sa inyo katigulangan nga si inyo katigulangan nga si Levi.
Gani gintugutan ko nga insultuhon kamo kag pakahuy-an sang tanan nga tawo tungod kay wala ninyo pagsunda ang akon mga pamaagi, kag may ginapaboran pa kamo sa inyo pagpanudlo.”
Nagsiling si Malakias sa mga Israelinhon, Nagsiling si Malakias sa mga Israelinhon, “Indi bala nga tanan kita may isa lang ka amay?
“Nagluib ang mga taga-Juda; naghimo sila sang makangilil-ad nga butang sa Jerusalem kag sa bilog nga nasyon sang bilog nga nasyon sang Israel. Kay ginhigkuan nila ang templo
Kabay pa nga ang tawo nga nagahimo sini indi na pagkabigon nga sakop sang katawhan sang Israel, pati ang iya mga anak kag mga apo,
“Amo pa gid ini ang inyo ginhimo: Nagasagi kamo hibi sing mabaskog sa halaran sang Ginoo Ginoo kay wala na niya ginasapak ukon ginakalipay ang inyo mga halad.
Nagapamangkot kamo kon ngaa wala na niya ginasapak ang inyo mga halad wala na niya ginasapak ang inyo mga halad . Ina tungod kay saksi ang Ginoo Ginoo nga nagluib kamo sa inyo asawa nga inyo ginpakaslan sang bataon pa kamo. Ginlapas ninyo ang inyo kasugtanan sa inyo asawa nga magmatutom kamo sa ila.
Indi bala nga gin-isa na kamo sang Ginoo Ginoo sa lawas kag sa espiritu para mangin iya kamo?
“Gani siguraduhon ninyo nga indi ninyo pagluiban ang inyo asawa ang inyo asawa .”
Nagsiling pa gid si Malakias sa mga Israelinhon, Nagsiling pa gid si Malakias sa mga Israelinhon, “Ginapatak-an ninyo ang Ginoo Ginoo sa inyo mga ginahambal. Pero nagapamangkot pa kamo, ‘Ngaa, ano ang amon ginahambal nga natak-an siya?’ Nagahambal kamo nga ang tanan nga nagahimo sang malain maayo sa panulok sang Ginoo Ginoo kag nalipay siya sa ila. Nagayaguta pa kamo Nagayaguta pa kamo nga nagasiling, ‘Diin na ang Dios sang katarungan?’ ”
Pamati kamo sa ginasiling sang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Ipadala ko ang akon mensahero sa pagpreparar sang akon alagyan. Dayon ang Ginoo nga inyo ginapaabot gulpi lang nga magaabot sa iya templo. Magaabot ang ginahandom ninyo nga mensahero nga magapatigayon sang akon kasugtanan.”
Gani malipay na ang Ginoo Ginoo sa mga halad sang katawhan sang katawhan sang Juda kag Jerusalem, pareho sang una.
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom sa mga Israelinhon, sa mga Israelinhon, “Magaabot ako sa paghukom sa inyo. Magasaksi ako gilayon kontra sa mga babaylan, sa mga nagapanginbabayi ukon sa mga nagapanginlalaki, sa mga nagasaksi sang butig, sa mga nagaabuso sa mga trabahador kag sa mga balo nga babayi kag mga ilo, kag sa mga nagabaliwala sa kinamatarong sang mga pangayaw. Himuon ko ini sa inyo nga wala nagatahod sa akon.”
Nagsiling pa ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo , wala nagabaylo. Gani kamo nga mga kaliwat ni Jacob wala malaglag.
Pareho kamo sa inyo mga katigulangan; wala kamo nagasunod kag nagatuman sa akon mga pagsulundan. Karon, magbalik kamo sa akon, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, kag magabalik
Mamangkot man ako sa inyo, mahimo bala sang tawo nga kawatan ako? Daw imposible! Daw imposible! Pero kamo, ginakawatan ninyo ako. Kag karon nagapamangkot pa kamo, ‘Paano ka namon ginakawatan?’ Ginakawatan ninyo ako kay wala kamo nagahatag sang inyo Ginakawatan ninyo ako kay wala kamo nagahatag sang inyo ikanapulo
Amo ina nga ginapakamalaot ko ang inyo bilog nga nasyon.
Karon, ginahangkat ko kamo nga tilawan ninyo ako, ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom. Dal-a ninyo ang inyo bilog nga ikanapulo sa bodega sang templo para may pagkaon sa akon templo. Kon himuon ninyo ini, padal-an ko na kamo sang ulan
Indi ko pagtugutan nga kaunon sang peste ang inyo mga pananom. Kag ang inyo mga ubas indi magkalapulak.
Tawgon kamo nga bulahan
Nagsiling pa sa ila pa sa ila ang Ginoo Ginoo , “Masakit ang inyo ginpanghambal parte sa akon. Pero nagapamangkot pa kamo, ‘Ano bala ang ginhambal namon parte sa imo?’
Nagsiling kamo, ‘Wala sing pulos ang pag-alagad sa Dios. Ano bala ang aton makuha kon tumanon ta ang iya mga ginapatuman sa aton? Kag ano ang aton makuha kon maglakat-lakat kita nga nagapangasubo sa pagpakita sa Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom nga nagahinulsol kita sa aton mga sala nga nagahinulsol kita sa aton mga sala ?
Makasiling kita nga bulahan pa gani ang bugalon nga mga tawo. Kay sa pagkamatuod, sila nga mga nagahimo sing malain nagauswag. Kag bisan ginatilawan nila ang pasensya sang Dios wala man sila ginasilutan.’ ”
Dayon atong mga nagatahod sa Ginoo Ginoo naghambalanay. Nagpamati sa ila ang Ginoo Ginoo kag nabatian niya ang ila ginahambalan ang ila ginahambalan . Ginsulat ang ila mga ngalan
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom parte sa mga tawo nga nagatahod sa iya parte sa mga tawo nga nagatahod sa iya , “Mangin akon sila espesyal nga katawhan sa adlaw nga magahukom ako. Indi ko sila pagsilutan pareho sang ginahimo sang isa ka amay nga indi magsilot sa iya anak nga nagatuman sa iya.
Kag sa liwat makita sang mga tawo ang kinalain sang matarong kag sang malain, ang kinalain sang nagaalagad sa akon kag sang wala nagaalagad sa akon.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, “Sigurado gid nga magaabot ang adlaw nga magasilot ako nga magasilot ako . Mangin pareho ini sang nagadabadaba nga hurnohan. Silutan ko ang tanan nga bugalon kag nagahimo sing malain pareho sang pagsunog sang dagami. Mangin pareho sila sa ginsunog nga kahoy nga wala gid sing may nabilin nga sanga kag gamot.
Pero kamo ya nga nagatahod sa akon, maeksperiensyahan ninyo ang pagluwas ko sa inyo. Daw pareho ini sa pagbutlak sang adlaw
Sa pag-abot sang adlaw nga himuon ko na ini nga mga butang, laglagon ninyo ang mga malain nga daw sa yab-ok lang nga tapak-tapakon ninyo. Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.
“Pamati kamo! Sa indi pa mag-abot ang makahaladlok gid nga adlaw nga magasilot ako, ipadala ko sa inyo si Propeta Elias.
Ibalik niya ang maayo nga relasyon sang mga ginikanan kag sang mga kabataan, para sa pag-abot ko indi ko pagpakamalauton ang inyo duta.”
Amo ini ang lista sang mga katigulangan ni Jesu-Cristo nga kaliwat ni David. Si David nga ini kaliwat ni Abraham.
Si Abraham amay ni Isaac, si Isaac amay ni Jacob, kag si Jacob amay ni Juda kag sang iya mga utod nga lalaki.
Si Juda amay ni Perez kag ni Zera, kag si Tamar ang ila iloy. Si Perez amay ni Hezron, kag si Hezron amay ni Ram.
Si Ram amay ni Aminadab, si Aminadab amay ni Nashon, kag si Nashon amay ni Salmon.
Si Salmon amay ni Boaz, kag si Rahab ang iya iloy. Si Boaz amay ni Obed, kag si Ruth ang iya iloy. Si Obed amay ni Jesse,
Si David amay ni Solomon kag ang iya iloy asawa anay ni Uria.
Si Solomon amay ni Rehoboam, si Rehoboam amay ni Abia, kag si Abia amay ni Asa.
Si Asa amay ni Jehoshafat, si Jehoshafat amay ni Joram, kag si Joram amay ni Uzia.
Si Uzia amay ni Jotam, si Jotam amay ni Ahaz, kag si Ahaz amay ni Hezekia.
Si Hezekia amay ni Manase, si Manase amay ni Amos,
kag si Josia amay ni Jeconia
Amo naman ini ang sa lista Amo naman ini ang sa lista pagkatapos nga mabihag ang mga taga-Israel pa-Babilonia: si Jeconia amay ni Shealtiel, si Shealtiel amay ni Zerubabel,
si Zerubabel amay ni Abiud, si Abiud amay ni Eliakim, kag si Eliakim amay ni Azor.
Si Azor amay ni Zadok, si Zadok amay ni Akim, kag si Akim amay ni Eliud.
Si Eliud amay ni Eleazar, si Eleazar amay ni Matan, si Matan amay ni Jacob,
si Jacob amay ni Jose nga bana ni Maria. Si Maria amo ang iloy ni Jesus nga ginatawag Cristo.
Gani may 14 ka henerasyon halin kay Abraham hasta kay David. Kag may 14 man ka henerasyon halin kay David hasta sa pagbihag sa mga taga-Israel pa-Babilonia. Halin sa pagbihag pa-Babilonia may 14 pa gid ka henerasyon hasta kay Cristo.
Amo ini ang estorya sang estorya sang pagkatawo ni Jesu-Cristo: Si Maria nga iya iloy kalaslon na kay Jose. Pero sa wala pa sila mag-upod nasapwan ni Maria nga nagabusong na siya paagi sa Espiritu Santo.
Karon, si Jose nga mangin iya bana isa ka matarong nga tawo kag indi siya luyag nga mahuy-an si Maria sa mga tawo. Gani ginpakamaayo niya nga bulagan si Maria sa tago lang.
Samtang ginahunahuna ini ni Jose, nagpakita sa iya sa damgo ang anghel sang Ginoo nga nagasiling, “Jose, kaliwat ni David, indi ka magkahadlok nga magpangasawa kay Maria, kay nagabusong siya paagi sa Espiritu Santo.
Magabata siya sing lalaki kag ngalanan mo ang bata nga Jesus,
Natabo ini para matuman ang ginsiling sang Ginoo paagi sa propeta nga nagsiling,
“Magabusong ang isa ka birhen kag magabata sing lalaki. Kag pagatawgon ang ini nga bata nga Emmanuel”
Gani pagbugtaw ni Jose gintuman niya ang ginsiling sang anghel sang Ginoo, kag ginpangasawa niya si Maria.
Pero wala niya gintandog si Maria samtang wala pa ini makabata. Sang nakabata na si Maria, Sang nakabata na si Maria, gin-ngalanan ni Jose ang bata nga Jesus.
Natawo si Jesus sa Betlehem nga sakop sang Judea sang panahon nga si Herodes ang hari. May nag-abot nga mga tawo sa Jerusalem halin sa east nga mga eksperto sa kahulugan sang mga bituon.
Nagpamangkot sila, “Diin bala natawo ang hari sang mga Judio? Nakita namon ang iya bituon sa east, gani nagkadto kami diri sa pagsimba sa iya.”
Sang pagkabati sini ni Haring Herodes, indi siya mapahamtang, pati ang tanan nga tawo sa Jerusalem.
Gani ginpatawag niya ang tanan nga manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag nagpamangkot siya sa ila kon diin matawo ang Cristo.
Nagsabat sila, “Didto sa Betlehem nga sakop sang Judea, kay amo ini ang ginsulat sang isa ka propeta,
nga magaatipan sa akon katawhan nga Israelinhon.’
Pagkabati sadto ni Pagkabati sadto ni Herodes, ginpatawag niya sing sekreto ato nga mga eksperto
Pagkatapos ginpakadto niya sila sa Betlehem. Nagsiling siya, “Lakat kamo kag pangitaa ninyo sing maayo ang bata. Kag kon makita ninyo siya, pahibalua ninyo ako, para makakadto man ako kag makasimba sa iya.”
Pagsulod nila sa balay, nakita nila ang bata kag ang iya iloy nga si Maria. Nagluhod sila kag nagsimba sa bata. Dayon ginbuksan nila ang ila dala, kag naghalad sila sa bata sang bulawan, insenso, kag pahamot nga pahamot nga mira.
Pagpuli nila nag-agi sila sa lain nga dalan kay ginpaandaman sila paagi sa damgo nga indi na sila magbalik kay Herodes.
Sang makahalin na ang mga tawo nga halin sa east, nagpakita ang anghel sang Ginoo kay Jose sa damgo kag nagsiling, “Bangon ka, dal-a ang bata kag ang iya iloy kag magpalagyo kamo sa Egypt. Didto lang anay kamo magpabilin hasta nga magsiling ako sa inyo nga puwede na kamo makabalik, kay pangitaon ni Herodes ang bata para patyon siya.”
Gani sadto gid nga gab-i, nagbangon si Jose kag gindala niya ang mag-iloy didto sa Egypt.
Ini natabo para matuman ang ginsiling sang Ginoo paagi sa propeta nga nagsiling, “Gintawag ko ang akon anak halin sa Egypt.”
Sang mahibaluan ni Herodes nga gindayaan siya sang mga eksperto, nangakig gid siya. Nagmando siya nga pamatyon ang tanan nga bata nga lalaki sa Betlehem kag sa palibot sini, nga nagaedad sang duha ka tuig paidalom. Kay suno sa iya nahibaluan sa mga eksperto, mga duha na ka tuig ang nakaligad halin sang ila pagkakita sang bituon.
Sa sina nga pagpamatay sa mga bata, natuman ang ginpropesiya ni Propeta Jeremias nga nagasiling,
tungod kay ang iya mga kabataan nagkalamatay.”
Sang patay na si Herodes, nagpakita ang anghel sang Ginoo kay Jose sa damgo didto sa Egypt.
Nagsiling siya, “Bangon ka, dal-a ang bata kag ang iya iloy kag magbalik kamo sa duta sang Israel, tungod kay napatay na ang mga nagatinguha nga magkuha sang kabuhi sang bata.”
Gani nagbangon si Jose kag gindala niya ang mag-iloy pabalik sa duta sang Israel.
Pero sang pagkabati ni Jose nga si Arkelaus amo ang nagbulos sa iya amay nga si Herodes bilang hari sa Judea, hinadlukan siya nga magpuli didto. Sang mapaandaman pa gid siya paagi sa damgo, nagderetso siya sa probinsya sang Galilea,
kag didto sila nag-estar sa banwa sang Nazaret. Gani natuman ang ginsiling sang mga propeta sang una nga tawgon ang Cristo nga Nazaretnon.
Karon, nag-abot ang tion nga si Juan nga manugbautiso nagkadto sa kamingawan sang Judea, kag nagsugod siya sa pagwali.
Nagsiling siya, “Maghinulsol kamo sa inyo mga sala, kay malapit na
Tadlunga ang dalan nga iya pagaagyan.’ ”
Ang bayo ni Juan hinimo halin sa bulbol sang camel kag ang iya paha panit. Ang iya pagkaon apan kag honey.
Madamo gid nga mga tawo ang nagkadto sa iya halin sa Jerusalem, sa tanan nga banwa sang Judea, kag sa tanan nga lugar sa pihak kag pihak sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Gintuad nila ang ila mga sala kag ginbautisohan sila ni Juan sa Suba sang Jordan.
Nakita ni Juan nga madamo nga Pariseo kag Saduceo ang nagkadto sa pagpabautiso. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kamo nga mga kaliwat sang mga man-og! Sin-o ang nagsiling sa inyo nga makapalagyo kamo sa palaabuton nga kaakig sang Dios sang Dios ?
Kon matuod nga naghinulsol kamo sa inyo mga sala, pamatud-i ninyo ini sa inyo mga binuhatan.
Indi kamo magsiling nga indi kamo pagsilutan tungod kay kamo mga kaliwat ni Abraham. Kay bisan ang mga bato nga ini sarang mahimo sang Dios nga mga anak ni Abraham.
Tandai ninyo ini: ang wasay handa na sa pagtapas sa puno sang mga kahoy. Ang tagsa ka kahoy nga wala nagapamunga sang maayo nga bunga pagatapson kag ihaboy sa kalayo.
“Ako nagabautiso sa inyo sa tubig sa pagpakilala nga nagahinulsol na kamo sa inyo mga sala, pero may magaabot nga nagasunod sa akon nga mas gamhanan pa sang sa akon kag indi gani ako takos nga mangin iya ulipon.
Pareho siya sa tawo Pareho siya sa tawo nga nagapahangin sang iya inani para painon ang tinggas sa upa. Ang tinggas ibutang niya sa bodega, pero ang upa sunugon niya sa kalayo nga indi gid mapatay.”
Karon, naghalin si Jesus sa Galilea kag nagkadto kay Juan didto sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan para magpabautiso.
Indi kuntani magbautiso si Juan sa iya, kay siling niya, “Ngaa magpabautiso ka sa akon? Ako gani ang kinahanglan magpabautiso sa imo.”
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Sige lang, tungod nga amo ini ang dapat ta nga himuon para matuman ang gusto sang Dios.” Gani nagsugot si Juan nga bautisohan si Jesus.
Sang mabautisohan na si Jesus, nagtakas siya sa tubig. Dayon nag-abri ang langit kag nakita ni Jesus ang Espiritu sang Dios nga naghugpa sa iya pareho sang pating.
Kag may tingog nga nabatian halin sa langit nga nagasiling, “Amo ini ang akon hinigugma nga Anak. Nalipay gid ako sa iya.”
Pagkatapos sadto, gindala sang Espiritu Santo Santo si Jesus sa kamingawan para tentaron sang yawa.
Sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw kag 40 ka gab-i nagpuasa si Jesus, kag gin-gutom siya.
Nagpalapit sa iya ang manugtentar nga si Satanas nga si Satanas kag nagsiling, “Kon ikaw ang Anak sang Dios, himua ini nga mga bato nga mangin tinapay.”
Pero nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Indi lang sa pagkaon mabuhi ang tawo, kundi sa tagsa ka pulong sang Dios.’ ”
Dayon gindala siya sang yawa sa Jerusalem, ang Jerusalem, ang balaan nga siyudad, didto sa pinakamataas nga parte sang templo.
Saluon ka nila para indi mapilas ang imo tiil sa bato.’ ”
Pero Pero ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Indi pagtestingi ang Ginoo nga imo Dios.’ ”
Sa liwat gindala pa gid siya sang yawa sa mataas gid nga bukid, kag ginpakita sa iya ang tanan nga ginharian sang kalibutan kag ang iya sini gahom kag manggad.
Nagsiling ang yawa sa iya, “Ini tanan ihatag ko sa imo kon magluhod ka kag magsimba sa akon.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Palayo ka Satanas! Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Simbahon mo ang Ginoo nga imo Dios kag siya gid lang ang imo alagaron.’ ”
Dayon naghalin ang yawa, kag nag-abot ang mga anghel sang Dios kag nag-alagad kay Jesus.
Sang mabatian ni Jesus nga napriso si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso , nagbalik siya sa Galilea.
Wala siya nagtiner sa Nazaret kundi nagderetso siya sa Capernaum. Ini nga banwa nga banwa ara sa higad sang Dagat
Natabo ini para matuman ang ginpropesiya ni Propeta Isaias nga nagasiling,
nga ginaestaran sang mga indi Judio.
Ang mga nadulman nga ginahadlukan nga mapatay masanagan.”
Halin sadto nagsugod si Jesus sa pagwali. Siling niya, Siling niya, “Maghinulsol kamo sa inyo mga sala, kay malapit na
Sang nagalakat si Jesus sa higad sang Dagat sang Galilea, nakita niya ang mag-utod nga si Simon nga ginatawag Pedro kag si Andres nga nagaladlad sang pukot. Mga mangingisda sila.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sunod kamo sa akon kag himuon ko kamo nga mga mangingisda sang mga tawo.”
Sa gilayon ginbayaan nila ang ila mga pukot kag nagsunod sa iya.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpadayon si Jesus sa paglakat, kag sa unhan nakita niya ang mag-utod nga si Santiago kag si Juan nga mga anak ni Zebedee. Nagakay-o sila sang ila pukot didto sa sakayan kaupod sang ila amay. Gintawag ni Jesus ang mag-utod,
kag sa gilayon ginbayaan nila ang ila sakayan kag ang ila amay kag nagsunod sila kay Jesus.
Naglibot si Jesus sa bilog nga Galilea nga nagapanudlo sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio. Ginwali niya sa ila ang Maayong Balita parte sa paghari sang Dios sang Dios , kag ginpang-ayo niya ang tanan nga klase sang balatian sang mga tawo.
Nangin bantog siya sa bilog nga Syria, gani nagdala ang mga tawo sang tanan nga masakiton sa iya: bisan ang mga nagaantos sing tama sa ila mga masakit, ang mga ginagamhan sang mga demonyo, ang mga kuyapon, kag ang mga paralitiko. Ginpang-ayo sila tanan ni Jesus.
Madamo gid nga mga tawo ang nagsunod kay Jesus halin sa Galilea, Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, kag sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Sang makita ni Jesus ang madamo nga tawo, nagtaklad siya sa bukid kag nagpungko didto. Nagpalapit sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod,
kag nagpanudlo siya sa ila. Siling niya,
kay sakop sila sa paghari sang Dios.
kay lipayon sila sang Dios.
kay mangin ila ang kalibutan.
kay buligan sila sang Dios sang Dios sa pagtuman sina nga handom.
kay kaluoyan sila sang Dios sang Dios .
kay makita nila ang Dios.
kay pagatawgon sila nga mga anak sang Dios.
“Bulahan kamo kon tungod sa inyo pagsunod sa akon ginayaguta kamo, ginahingabot, kag ginabutang-butangan sang tanan nga kalainan.
Amo man ini ang ila ginhimo sang una sa mga propeta. Gani magkalipay gid kamo tungod nga mabaton ninyo ang dako nga balos sa langit.
“Pareho kamo sang asin diri sa kalibutan. Pero kon maglain ang sabor sang asin, wala na sing may mahimo para mapabalik pa ang iya sabor. Gani indi na mapuslan kundi ginapilak na lang kag ginatapakan sang mga tawo.
“Pareho kamo sang suga nga nagahatag kasanag sa mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan. Kag ini makita gid pareho sang banwa nga ginpatindog sa ibabaw sang bukid nga indi matago.
Wala sing may nagasindi sang suga kag takluban lang dayon ini sang sulukban, kundi ginabutang ini sa tulungtungan para masanagan ang tanan sa sulod sang balay.
Gani amo man ang inyo himuon. Pasigaha ninyo ang inyo suga sa mga tawo, para makita nila ang inyo maayo nga mga binuhatan kag para dayawon nila ang inyo Amay sa langit.
“Indi kamo maghunahuna nga nagkadto ako diri sa pagbaliwala sang Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises kag sang mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta. Nagkadto ako diri sa pagtuman sini.
Sa pagkamatuod, samtang ara pa ang langit kag ang duta, wala gid sing bisan gamay nga parte sang Kasuguan nga mabaliwala hasta wala pa matuman ang tanan.
Gani ang bisan sin-o nga maglapas sang bisan labing gamay nga parte sang Kasuguan kag magtudlo sa iban nga maglapas man, siya ang labing kubos sa mga nasakop sa mga nasakop sa paghari sang Dios. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga magtuman sang Kasuguan, kag magtudlo sini sa iban nga magtuman man, kabigon siya nga dungganon sa mga nasakop sa mga nasakop sa paghari sang Dios.
Gani ginasugiran ko kamo nga kinahanglan ang inyo pagtuman sa kabubut-on sang Dios maglabaw pa sa pagtuman sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag sang mga Pariseo, kay kon indi, indi gid kamo masakop sa paghari sang Dios.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Nabatian ninyo nga ginsiling sang una sa aton mga katigulangan nga indi sila magpatay,
Pero ako nagasiling sa inyo nga ang bisan sin-o nga nagakaakig sa iya kapareho pagasilutan. Kag ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakalain sa iya kapareho sa pagsiling ‘Wala ka sing pulos,’ dal-on siya sa korte para silutan. Kag ang bisan sin-o nga magsiling sa iya kapareho ‘Buang,’ pagasilutan siya sa nagadabadaba nga kalayo sa impyerno.
Gani bisan ara ka na sa halaran nga nagadala sang imo halad sa Dios kag madumduman mo nga ang imo utod may malain nga buot sa imo,
ibilin mo anay ang imo nga inughalad malapit sa halaran kag kadtuan mo gilayon ang imo utod kag magpakighusay sa iya. Dayon magbalik ka sa halaran kag maghalad sang imo inughalad sa Dios.
“Kon may mag-akusar sa imo, magpakighusay ka gilayon sa iya samtang nagapakadto pa lang kamo sa korte. Kay kon didto na kamo sa korte, itugyan ka sang huwis sa opisyal para prisohon.
Sa pagkamatuod, indi ka gid makaguwa kon indi mo anay mabayaran ang tanan.
“Nabatian ninyo nga ginsiling sang una sang una nga indi dapat magpanginbabayi.
Pero ako nagasiling sa inyo nga kon ang lalaki magtulok sa babayi nga may handom sa pagpakighilawas sa iya, pareho lang nga nagapanginbabayi na siya sa iya hunahuna sa sina nga babayi.
Gani kon ang imo tuo nga mata amo ang kabangdanan sang imo pagpakasala, lukata ina kag ipilak. Kay maayo pa nga madula ang isa ka parte sang imo lawas sang sa kompleto ang imo lawas pero ipilak ka man lang sa impyerno.
Kon ang imo tuo nga kamot amo ang kabangdanan sang imo pagpakasala, utda ina kag ipilak. Kay maayo pa nga madula ang isa ka parte sang imo lawas sang sa kompleto ang imo lawas pero makadto ka man lang sa impyerno.
“Ginsiling man sang una sang una nga kon ang lalaki luyag magbulag sa iya asawa, dapat maghatag siya sa iya asawa sang kasulatan sang pagbulagay.
Pero ako nagasiling sa inyo nga kon bulagan sang lalaki ang iya asawa nga wala man lang naghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon,
“Nabatian ninyo nga ginsiling sang una sang una sa aton mga katigulangan nga kon ang tawo may ginpromisa kag ginsumpaan pa niya sa ngalan sang Ginoo, kinahanglan iya gid ini tumanon.
Pero ako nagasiling sa inyo nga kon magpromisa kamo, indi kamo magsumpa. Indi kamo magsiling nga ‘Saksi ang langit’ kay amo ini ang trono sang Dios,
ukon ‘Saksi ang duta’ kay amo ini ang tulungtungan sang iya tiil. Indi man kamo maggamit sang ngalan sang Jerusalem sa inyo pagsumpa tungod kay amo ini ang siyudad sang bantog nga Hari.
Kag indi man kamo magsiling nga, ‘Bisan mapatay pa ako,’ kay bisan pa gani ang isa lang ka buhok indi mo mapaputi ukon mapaitom.
Dapat magsiling ka lang ‘Huo’ kon huo kag ‘Indi’ kon indi; kay kon magsumpa pa kamo halin na ina kay Satanas.
“Nabatian ninyo nga ginsiling sang una sang una nga ‘Ang maglukat sang mata sang iya isigkatawo, lukaton man ang iya mata; kag ang magbingaw sang ngipon sang iya isigkatawo, bingawon man.’
Pero ako nagasiling sa inyo nga indi ninyo pagbalusi sing malain ang nagahimo sing malain sa inyo. Kon tampaon ka sa tuo nga guya, itaya pa ang imo wala nga guya.
Kon may magdemanda sa imo para kuhaon ang imo bayo, ihatag pati ang imo pangtabon nga panapton.
Kon may soldado nga magpilit sa imo nga magpas-an sang iya karga sang isa ka kilometro, himua nga duha.
Hatagi ang nagapangayo sa imo, kag pahulama ang nagahulam sa imo.
“Nabatian ninyo nga ginsiling sang una sang una nga ‘Higugmaa ninyo ang inyo kapareho
Pero ako nagasiling sa inyo nga higugmaa ninyo ang inyo mga kaaway. Bisan pa ang mga nagahingabot sa inyo pangamuyuan ninyo.
Kag kon himuon ninyo ini, mangin matuod matuod kamo nga mga anak sang inyo Amay sa langit.
Kon ang nagahigugma sa inyo amo lang ang inyo ginahigugma, makabaton bala kamo sang balos halin sa Dios? Indi gid! halin sa Dios? Indi gid! Kay bisan ang mga manugsukot sang buhis nga ginakabig ninyo nga makasasala nga ginakabig ninyo nga makasasala nagahimo man sina.
Kag kon ang inyo mga kapareho lang ang inyo ginabugno, ano gid ang inyo ginahimo nga labaw sa iban? Bisan ang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios nagahimo man sina.
Gani dapat wala kamo sing pinilian pareho sang inyo Amay sa langit.”
“Mag-andam kamo kay basi kon ang inyo pagkadiosnon pakita-kita lang sa mga tawo. Kay kon pakita-kita lang, wala gid kamo sing may mabaton nga balos halin sa inyo Amay sa langit.
“Gani kon nagalimos kamo, indi ninyo pag-ipanugid pareho sang ginahimo sang mga hipokrito sa mga simbahan kag sa mga dalan. Ginahimo nila ina para dayawon sila sang mga tawo. Sa pagkamatuod, nabaton na nila ang ila balos.
Kon nagalimos kamo, indi ninyo pagpahibalua bisan pa ang inyo suod nga abyan
para sekreto ang inyo paghatag. Kag ang inyo Amay nga nakakita sang inyo ginahimo sa sekreto amo ang magabalos sa inyo.
“Kon magpangamuyo kamo, indi kamo magsunod sa ginahimo sang mga hipokrito. Luyag nila magpangamuyo nga nagatindog sa mga simbahan kag sa mga kanto sang mga dalan para makita sang mga tawo. Sa pagkamatuod, nabaton na nila ang ila balos,
Pero kon kamo magpangamuyo, magsulod kamo sa inyo kuwarto kag magpanirado. Didto kamo magpangamuyo sa inyo Amay nga indi makita.
“Kon nagapangamuyo kamo, indi kamo maggamit sang madamo nga pulong nga wala sing pulos. Amo ina ang ginahimo sang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios. Kay nagahunahuna sila nga sabton sila sang Dios kon malawig ang ila mga pangamuyo.
Indi ninyo pagsunda ang ila ginahimo. Kay nakahibalo na ang aton Amay sang aton mga kinahanglan sa wala pa kita makapangayo.
kabay pa nga tahuron ka sang mga tawo.
kabay pa nga tumanon man diri sa kalibutan.
nga pagkaon sa sini nga adlaw.
kay ginapatawad man namon ang nakasala sa amon.
kag ang Dalayawon hasta san-o. Amen.’
Kon ginapatawad ninyo ang mga tawo nga nakasala sa inyo, patawaron man kamo sang inyo Amay nga ara sa langit.
Pero kon indi kamo magpatawad sa ila, ang inyo Amay indi man magpatawad sa inyo.
“Kon magpuasa kamo, indi kamo magsunod sa mga hipokrito. Nagalagaw sila nga wala nagapanghilam-os kag wala nagapanghusay para mahibaluan sang iban nga nagapuasa sila. Sa pagkamatuod, nabaton na nila ang ila balos.
Pero kon kamo magpuasa, magpanghilam-os kamo kag magpanghusay,
para wala sing may makahibalo nga nagapuasa kamo luwas lang sa inyo Amay nga indi makita. Kag ang inyo Amay nga nakakita sang inyo mga ginahimo sa sekreto amo ang magabalos sa inyo.
“Indi kamo magtipon sang manggad para sa inyo kaugalingon diri sa kalibutan, tungod kay ang mga sapat-sapat kag ang tuktok magaut-ot sini, ukon mahimo nga sudlon sang makawat ang inyo balay kag kawaton ini.
Sa baylo, magtipon kamo sang inyo manggad didto sa langit, kay didto wala sing sapat-sapat kag tuktok nga nagaut-ot, kag wala sing makawat nga makasulod.
Kay kon diin ang inyo manggad didto man ang inyo tagipusuon.
“Ang aton mata amo ang suga sang aton lawas. Gani kon masanag ang imo panulok, masanagan ang imo bilog nga lawas.
Pero kon madulom ang imo panulok madulman ang imo bilog nga lawas. Gani kon ang ginasiling nga suga nga ara sa imo wala nagahatag sang kasanag, tama gid kadulom ang imo nga kahimtangan.
“Wala sing tawo nga makaalagad sing dungan sa duha ka agalon, kay magasikway siya sa isa kag magahigugma sa isa; magadampig siya sa isa kag magapakalain sa isa. Indi man kamo makaalagad sing dungan sa Dios kag sa manggad.
“Amo gani nga nagasiling ako sa inyo nga indi kamo magpalibog sa inyo pagpangabuhi, kon ano ang inyo kaunon ukon imnon kag kon ano ang inyo bayuon. Kay kon ginhatagan kamo sang Dios sang kabuhi kag lawas, indi mahimo nga indi niya kamo paghatagan sang pagkaon kag bayo.
Tan-awa bala ninyo ang mga pispis sa kahanginan. Wala sila nagatanom, wala sila nagaani, kag wala sila nagatipon sang pagkaon sa bodega, pero ginapakaon sila sang inyo Amay. Indi bala mas labaw pa kamo sang sa mga pispis?
Sin-o sa inyo ang makapalawig sang inyo kabuhi bisan diutay lang paagi sa inyo pagpalibog? Wala gid! Wala gid!
“Kag ngaa nagapalibog gid kamo kon sa diin kamo makuha sang inyo bayo? Talupangda ninyo kon paano nagatubo ang mga bulak sa latagon. Wala sila nagapangabudlay ukon nagahimo sang ila bayo.
Sa pagkamatuod, bisan ang bantog kag manggaranon nga hari nga si Solomon, ang iya mga bayo indi makatupong sa katahom sang bisan isa lang sa sini nga mga bulak.
Kon ginapatahom sang Dios ang mga hilamon nga buhi subong, pero sa ulihi malaya kag malaya kag tutdan man lang, indi bala nga mas labi pa gid nga pabayuan niya kamo? Kadiutay sang inyo pagtuo!
Gani indi kamo magpalibog kon ano ang inyo kaunon kag imnon, kag kon ano ang inyo bayuon.
Amo ina ang ginapalibugan sang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios. Pero nakahibalo ang inyo Amay sa langit nga kinahanglan ninyo ina nga mga butang.
Gani unaha ninyo ang pagpasakop sa paghari sang Dios kag ang pagtuman sa iya kabubut-on, kag ihatag gid niya ang tanan ninyo nga mga kinahanglanon.
Gani indi kamo magpalibog parte sa buwas, kay ang buwas may kaugalingon nga palaligban. Indi kinahanglan nga dugangan pa ninyo ang palaligban nga nagaabot sa kada adlaw.”
“Indi ninyo paghukman ang iban para indi man kamo paghukman sang Dios sang Dios .
Kay kon paano ang paghukom ninyo sa iban pareho man sina ang paghukom sang Dios sang Dios sa inyo. Ang basihan ninyo sa paghukom sa iban amo man ang basihan sang Dios sang Dios sa paghukom sa inyo.
Ngaa ginahimutaran mo gid ang gamay nga puling sa mata sang imo isigkatawo, pero wala mo gani ginasapak ang imo puling nga daw troso kadako?
Paano ka makasiling sa iya, ‘Abi kuhaon ko ang imo puling,’ kon sa imo mata mismo may puling nga daw troso kadako?
Hipokrito! Kuhaa anay ang puling nga daw troso kadako sa imo mata, para masanag ang imo pagkuha sang gamay nga puling sa mata sang imo isigkatawo.
“Indi ninyo pag-ipilak ang balaan nga mga butang sa mga ido, kay basi balikdon kamo kag kadton. Kag indi ninyo pag-ipilak ang inyo mga perlas sa mga baboy, kay pagatasakon lang nila.
“Magpangayo kamo sa Dios sa Dios kag hatagan niya niya kamo. Pangitaa ninyo sa iya ang inyo ginapangita sa iya ang inyo ginapangita kag makita ninyo. Magpanuktok kamo kag pagabuksan niya niya kamo.
Kay ang tanan nga nagapangayo, nagabaton. Ang mga nagapangita, makakita. Kag ang mga nagapanuktok, pagabuksan.
Kamo nga mga ginikanan, kon magpangayo sang pagkaon ang inyo bata hatagan bala ninyo sang bato?
Kon magpangayo siya sang isda hatagan bala ninyo sang man-og? Siyempre indi! Siyempre indi!
Ti kon kamo nga mga malain makahibalo maghatag sang maayo nga mga butang sa inyo mga bata, daw ano pa gid ang inyo Amay sa langit! Ihatag gid niya ang maayo nga mga butang sa mga nagapangayo sa iya.
“Himua ninyo sa inyo isigkatawo ang luyag ninyo nga himuon man nila sa inyo. Amo ini ang husto nga pagtuman sa Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises kag sa mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta.
“Magsulod kamo sa makitid nga puwertahan, tungod kay masangkad ang puwertahan kag malapad ang dalan nga nagapakadto sa kalaglagan, kag madamo ang nagaagi sa sina nga dalan.
Pero makitid ang puwertahan kag mabudlay ang dalan nga nagapakadto sa kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan , kag diutay lang ang nagaagi sa sina nga dalan.
“Mag-andam kamo sa indi matuod nga mga propeta. Nagapalapit sila sa inyo nga daw sa mabuot nga mabuot nga mga karnero, pero ang matuod pareho sila sa mabangis nga mga ido.
Makilala ninyo sila paagi sa ila mga buhat. Pareho bala sang tunukon nga kahoy-kahoy, wala ini nagapamunga sang higos ukon ubas.
Ang maayo nga kahoy nagapamunga sang maayo. Pero ang malain nga kahoy nagapamunga sang malain.
Ang maayo nga kahoy indi makapamunga sang malain, kag ang malain nga kahoy indi makapamunga sang maayo.
Ang tanan nga kahoy nga wala nagapamunga sang maayo ginatapas kag ginasunog dayon.
Gani ang indi matuod nga mga propeta makilala ninyo sa ila mga buhat.
“Madamo nga tawo ang nagatawag sa akon, ‘Ginoo,’ pero wala nagakahulugan nga masakop sila sa paghari sang Dios.
Sa adlaw sang paghukom madamo ang magasiling sa akon, ‘Ginoo, sa imo ngalan
Dayon magasiling ako sa ila, ‘Wala ako makakilala sa inyo. Palayo kamo sa akon, kamo nga nagahimo sing malain!’
“Gani ang bisan sin-o nga nagapamati kag nagatuman sang akon mga ginatudlo, pareho siya sa tawo nga maalam nga nagpatindog sang iya balay sa pundasyon nga pundasyon nga bato.
Sang nag-ulan sing tudo kag nagbaha, kag nagwaswas ang mabaskog nga hangin sa balay, wala ini maguba tungod nga ginpatindog sa pundasyon nga bato.
Pero ang tawo nga nakabati sang akon mga ginatudlo pero wala nagatuman, pareho siya sa tawo nga buang-buang nga nagpatindog sang iya balay sa balas.
Sang nag-ulan sing tudo kag nagbaha, kag nagwaswas ang mabaskog nga hangin sa balay, natumba ang balay, kag nagrinagamak hasta nawasak.”
Pagkatapos hambal ni Jesus sini nga mga butang, natingala gid ang mga tawo sa iya pagpanudlo,
tungod nga nagatudlo siya nga may awtoridad, kag indi pareho sang ila mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan.
Sang nagpanaog na si Jesus sa bukid, madamo nga tawo ang nagsunod sa iya.
Dayon, may nagpalapit sa iya nga isa ka tawo nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit.
Dayon gintandog siya ni Jesus nga nagasiling, “Gusto ko. Magmatinlo ka!” Sa gilayon nagtinlo siya
Kag nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Indi ka gid magpanugid bisan kay sin-o parte sini, kundi magderetso ka sa pari kag magpatan-aw sa iya.
Karon, sang nagapasulod si Jesus sa Capernaum, ginsugata siya sang isa ka kapitan sang mga soldado nga Romanhon. Nagpakitluoy siya nga nagasiling,
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Sige, kadtuan ko siya kag ayuhon.”
Pero nagsabat ang kapitan, “Ginoo, indi ako takos nga magpasulod sa imo sa akon balay. Maghambal ka lang kag magaayo ang akon suluguon.
Nahibaluan ko ini tungod kay ako sa idalom man sang mga opisyal, kag may mga soldado man sa idalom ko. Gani kon magmando ako sa isa ‘lakat,’ nagalakat siya, kag kon magmando ako sa isa, ‘kadto diri,’ nagakadto siya. Kag kon ano ang akon ginasugo sa akon ulipon, ginahimo niya.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Jesus natingala gid siya. Kag nagsiling siya sa mga tawo nga nagasunod sa iya, “Sa pagkamatuod, wala pa gid ako nakakita sang tawo sa Israel nga may pagtuo nga pareho sini.
Gani tandai ninyo ini! Madamo nga indi Judio halin sa bisan diin nga parte sang kalibutan
Pero madamo nga Israelinhon nga amo kuntani ang masakop sa paghari sang Dios sang Dios ang ipilak sa kadudulman nga sa diin magahinibi sila kag magabagrot ang ila mga ngipon.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa kapitan, “Pauli ka, matabo ang imo ginatuohan.” Kag sa sadto gid nga tion nag-ayo ang suluguon sang kapitan.
Nagkadto si Jesus sa balay ni Pedro. Pag-abot niya didto, nakita niya ang ugangan ni Pedro nga babayi nga nagahigda nga may hilanat.
Gintandog ni Jesus ang iya kamot, kag sa gilayon nag-ayo siya. Nagbangon siya kag ginhimusan niya sang pagkaon sila ni Jesus.
Sang sirom na, madamo nga tawo nga ginagamhan sang mga demonyo ang gindala kay Jesus. Sa isa lang niya ka paghambal naghalalin ang malain nga mga espiritu, kag ang tanan nga masakiton ginpang-ayo niya.
kag nag-ayo sang aton mga balatian.”
Sang makita ni Jesus nga madamo nga tawo ang nagtilipon didto sa iya, ginsugo niya ang iya mga sumulunod nga magtabok sa pihak sang dagat.
Karon, may manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga nagpalapit sa iya kag nagsiling, “Manunudlo, maupod ako sa imo bisan diin ka makadto.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ang mga fox may mga buho nga ginapulian kag ang mga pispis may mga pugad, pero ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo wala sing kaugalingon nga balay nga akon mapahuwayan.”
May isa pa ka sumulunod ni Jesus nga nagsiling, “Ginoo, mapuli anay ako sa paglubong sang akon amay.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Upod ka sa akon kag pabay-i ang mga patay
Dayon nagsakay si Jesus sa sakayan, kag nag-upod sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod.
Samtang nagabiyahe sila, Samtang nagabiyahe sila, hinali lang nga nagbaskog ang hangin, kag daw indi na kitaon ang ila sakayan tungod sa kadalagko sang mga balod. Pero nagakatulog sadto si Jesus.
Gani ginpalapitan siya sang iya mga sumulunod kag ginpukaw, “Ginoo,
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa bala nahadlok gid kamo? Kadiutay sang inyo pagtuo!” Dayon nagbangon siya kag ginmanduan niya ang hangin kag ang mga balod nga mag-untat. Kag sa gilayon naglinaw.
Natingala gid ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagsiling sila, “Ano bala ini nga tawo nga bisan ang hangin kag ang mga balod nagatuman sa iya?”
Pag-abot nila sa tabok sang dagat, sa lugar sang mga Gadarenhon,
Pagkakita nila kay Jesus nagsinggit sila, “Ikaw nga Anak sang Dios, ano ang imo labot sa amon? Nagkadto ka bala diri para silutan kami sa wala pa ang tion?”
Didto sa unhan may madamo nga baboy nga nagakaon.
Nagpakitluoy ang mga demonyo nga nagasiling, “Kon tabugon mo gid man kami, tuguti na lang kami nga magsulod sa sina nga mga baboy.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sige, lakat kamo!” Gani nagguwa sila sa duha ka tawo sa duha ka tawo kag nagsulod sa mga baboy. Dayon nagdinaguso ang mga baboy padulhog sa banglid deretso sa tubig kag nagkalalumos.
Nagdinalagan ang mga manugsagod sang mga baboy pakadto sa banwa kag nagpanugid kon ano ang natabo sa mga baboy kag sa duha ka tawo nga gin-gamhan sang mga demonyo.
Gani ang tanan nga tawo sa banwa nagkadto kay Jesus kag nagpakitluoy nga maghalin siya sa ila lugar.
Gani nagsakay si Jesus kag ang iya kaupdanan sa sakayan pabalik sa tabok sang dagat. Pag-abot nila didto nagpuli dayon si Jesus sa iya banwa.
Sang didto na siya, gindala sa iya ang isa ka paralitiko nga ara sa hiligdaan. Pagkakita ni Jesus nga may pagtuo sila, nagsiling siya sa paralitiko, “Anak, indi ka magkabalaka, kay kay ginpatawad na ang imo mga sala.”
Karon, may mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan didto nga nakabati, gani nagsiling sila sa ila kaugalingon, “Ginainsulto sang sini nga tawo ang Dios ang Dios .”
Nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila ginahunahuna, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ngaa bala malain ang inyo ginahunahuna?
Diin bala ang mas mahapos, ang magsiling, ‘Ginpatawad na ang imo mga sala,’ ukon ang magsiling, ‘Magtindog ka kag maglakat’?
Karon pamatud-an ko sa inyo paagi sa pag-ayo sa sini nga paralitiko nga ako paagi sa pag-ayo sa sini nga paralitiko nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo may gahom diri sa duta sa pagpatawad sang mga sala.” Dayon nagsiling siya sa paralitiko, “Magtindog ka, dal-a ang imo hiligdaan kag magpuli.”
Nagbangon dayon ang paralitiko kag nagpuli.
Pagkakita sadto sang mga tawo hinadlukan sila,
Sang paghalin ni Jesus didto, nakita niya ang manugsukot sang buhis nga si Mateo nga nagapungko sa balayaran sang buhis. Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Dali, sunod ka sa akon.” Kag nagtindog si Mateo kag nagsunod kay Jesus.
Karon, samtang nagakaon si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa balay ni Mateo ni Mateo , madamo nga manugsukot sang buhis kag iban pa nga ginakabig nga iban pa nga ginakabig nga mga makasasala ang nag-abot kag nag-upod kaon sa ila.
Nakita ini sang mga Pariseo. Gani ginpamangkot nila ang iya mga sumulunod, “Ngaa nagaupod kaon ang inyo manunudlo sa mga manugsukot sang buhis kag sa iban pa nga iban pa nga mga makasasala?”
Nabatian ni Jesus ang ila pamangkot, gani ginsabat niya sila, “Ang tawo nga maayo ang lawas wala nagakinahanglan sang doktor, kundi ang nagamasakit lang.
Usisaa ninyo kon ano ang kahulugan sang ginasiling sa Kasulatan kahulugan sang ginasiling sa Kasulatan , ‘Indi ang inyo mga inyo mga halad ang akon luyag kundi ang inyo inyo kaluoy sa inyo isigkatawo sa inyo isigkatawo .’
May mga sumulunod si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso nga nagkadto kay Jesus kag nagpamangkot, “Kami kag ang mga Pariseo permi nagapuasa. Pero ngaa ang imo mga sumulunod wala nagapuasa?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Mahimo bala nga magpangasubo ang mga bisita samtang kaupod pa nila ang nobyo? Siyempre indi! Pero magaabot ang tion nga kuhaon ang nobyo sa ila kag amo na ina ang ila pagpuasa.”
Siling pa ni Jesus, Siling pa ni Jesus, “Indi maayo nga itukap ang bag-o nga tela sa daan nga bayo, kay kon malabhan kon malabhan magakulo ang bag-o nga tela kag magadako pa gid ang gisi.
Indi man maayo nga isulod ang bag-o nga bino sa daan nga suludlan nga panit. Kay mabusdik ang suludlan kag mausik ang bino, kag ang suludlan indi na mapuslan. Sa baylo, ginasulod ang bag-o nga bino sa bag-o nga suludlan nga panit, kag ining duha magadugay.”
Samtang nagahambal pa si Jesus, nag-abot ang isa ka manugdumala sang simbahan sang mga Judio sang simbahan sang mga Judio . Nagluhod siya kay Jesus kag nagpakitluoy, “Ang akon anak nga babayi bag-o gid lang napatay, pero kon kadtuan mo siya kag itungtong mo ang imo kamot sa iya, nagatuo ako nga mabuhi siya liwat.”
Gani nagtindog si Jesus kag nag-upod sa iya. Nag-upod man ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus.
Nagliso dayon si Jesus kag pagkakita niya sa babayi nagsiling siya, “Anak, indi ka magkabalaka. Ang imo pagtuo nag-ayo
Nagpadayon si Jesus sa balay sang manugdumala. Sang pagsulod niya, nakita niya nga didto ang mga manugplawta nga nagatukar sa lubong nga nagatukar sa lubong kag ang mga tawo nga nagaginahod.
Gani nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, “Guwa kamo anay! Kay indi patay ang bata kundi nagakatulog lang.” Ginkadlawan nila si Jesus.
Sang napaguwa na ang mga tawo, nagsulod dayon si Jesus sa kuwarto sang bata. Gin-uyatan niya ang kamot sang bata kag nagbangon ini.
Kag ang balita parte sini naglapnag sa tanan nga banwa sa sina nga lugar.
Paghalin ni Jesus sa sadto nga lugar, may duha ka bulag nga nagsunod sa iya nga nagasinggit, “Kaliwat ni David,
Sang pag-abot ni Jesus sa balay nga iya ginadayunan, nagpalapit sa iya atong duha ka bulag. Ginpamangkot niya sila, “Nagatuo bala kamo nga sarang ko kamo maayo?” Nagsabat sila, “Huo, Ginoo.”
Dayon gintandog ni Jesus ang ila mga mata kag nagsiling, “Suno sa inyo pagtuo pagahimuon ina sa inyo.”
Sa gilayon nag-ayo ang ila mga mata kag nakakita na sila. Ginpaandaman sila ni Jesus nga indi gid sila magpanugid bisan kay sin-o.
Pero naglakat sila kag ginpanugid nila sa bilog nga lugar kon ano ang ginhimo ni Jesus sa ila.
Sang nagapapuli na sila, may gindala kay Jesus nga apa tungod kay ginagamhan siya sang demonyo.
Pagkatapos nga natabog ni Jesus ang demonyo, nakahambal dayon ang apa. Natingala gid ang mga tawo. Nagsiling sila, “Halin pa sang una wala kita sing may nakita nga pareho sini sa bilog nga Israel.”
Pero nagsiling ang mga Pariseo, “Nagatabog siya sang mga demonyo paagi sa gahom nga ginhatag sa iya sang pangulo sang mga demonyo.”
Naglibot si Jesus sa mga banwa kag mga baryo, kag nagpanudlo siya sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio. Ginwali niya ang Maayong Balita parte sa paghari sang Dios, kag ginpang-ayo niya ang tanan nga klase sang balatian.
Pagkakita niya sa madamo nga tawo, naluoy gid siya sa ila tungod nga madamo ang ila mga palaligban pero wala sing may nagabulig sa ila. Pareho sila sa mga karnero nga wala sing manugbantay.
Gani nagsiling siya sa iya mga sumulunod, “Malapad ang alanihon,
Gani magpangamuyo kamo sa Ginoo, ang tag-iya sang alanihon, nga magpadala siya sang mga manug-ani sa iya alanihon.”
Gintawag ni Jesus ang iya dose ka sumulunod kag ginhatagan niya sila sing awtoridad sa pagtabog sang mahigko nga mga espiritu kag sa pag-ayo sang tanan nga klase sang balatian.
Amo ini ang ngalan sang dose ka apostoles: si Simon (nga ginatawag Pedro) nga amo ang nagapanguna sa ila, si Andres nga iya utod, ang duha ka anak ni Zebedee nga si Santiago kag si Juan,
si Felipe, si Bartolome, si Tomas, si Mateo (nga manugsukot sang buhis), si Santiago nga anak ni Alfeus, si Tadeus,
si Simon (nga sang una rebelde sa gobyerno sang Roma), kag si Judas Iscariote
Sa wala pa mapalakat ni Jesus ang dose ka apostoles ka apostoles ginsilingan niya sila, “Indi kamo magkadto sa mga lugar sang mga indi Judio ukon sa mga banwa sang mga Samariahanon,
kundi kadtui ninyo ang katawhan sang Israel nga pareho sa mga karnero nga nagtalang.
Isugid ninyo sa ila nga malapit na
Ayuha ninyo ang mga masakiton, banhawa ninyo ang mga patay, ayuha ninyo ang mga tawo nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit
Indi kamo magbalon sang kuwarta,
ukon bag, ukon ilislan nga bayo, ukon sandalyas, ukon baston, kay ang nagapangabudlay dapat gid man nga hatagan sang iya mga kinahanglanon.
“Kon magsulod kamo sa isa ka banwa ukon sa isa ka baryo, magpangita kamo sang tawo nga maalwan nga magbaton sa inyo sa iya balay. Kag didto kamo magdayon hasta maghalin kamo sa sina nga lugar.
Sa inyo pagsulod sa sina nga balay, bendisyunan ninyo ang mga nagaestar didto.
Kon matuod nga ginabaton kamo sang tagbalay, bendisyuni ninyo sila, pero kon indi, indi ninyo pagbendisyuni.
Kon may mga panimalay ukon banwa nga indi gid magbaton sa inyo ukon indi gid magpamati sa inyo, bayai na lang ninyo sila. Paghalin ninyo, taktaka ninyo ang yab-ok sa inyo tiil bilang paandam kontra sa ila bilang paandam kontra sa ila .
Sa pagkamatuod, sa adlaw sang paghukom, mas labaw pa nga silot ang mabaton nila sang sa mga taga-Sodom kag mga taga-Gomora.
“Tandai ninyo ini! Pareho kamo sa mga karnero nga akon ginapadala sa mabangis nga mga ido.
Mag-andam kamo sa mga tawo, kay pagadakpon nila kamo kag dal-on sa mga hukmanan kag pagahanuton nila kamo sa ila mga simbahan.
Iakusar nila kamo sa mga gobernador kag mga hari tungod sang inyo pagsunod sa akon. Kag didto magasugid kamo sang Maayong Balita sa ila kag sa mga indi Judio.
Kon imbistigaron na kamo, indi kamo magpalibog kon ano ang inyo ihambal, kag kon paano kamo magsabat. Kay kon kamo didto na, ang Espiritu Santo Espiritu Santo amo ang magatudlo sa inyo kon ano ang inyo isabat.
Gani ang inyo ihambal indi inyo kundi iya sang Espiritu nga halin sa inyo Amay. Siya ang magahambal paagi sa inyo.
“ Sa sina nga mga inadlaw Sa sina nga mga inadlaw may mga tawo nga magapapatay sang ila mga utod. May mga amay nga magapapatay sang ila mga anak. Kag may mga anak nga magakontra sa ila mga ginikanan, kag ipapatay nila sila.
Dumtan kamo sang tanan tungod sang inyo pagsunod sa akon. Pero ang nagapadayon sa pagsunod sa pagsunod hasta sa katapusan amo ang maluwas.
Kon hingabuton kamo sa isa ka banwa, magpalagyo kamo pakadto sa isa ka banwa. Kay sa pagkamatuod, sa wala pa ninyo malibot ang tanan nga banwa sang Israel, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magabalik.
“Wala sing estudyante nga labaw pa sa iya maestro, kag wala sing ulipon nga labaw pa sa iya amo.
Gani tuman na sa estudyante nga mangin pareho sa iya maestro, kag sa ulipon nga mangin pareho sa iya amo. Kon ako nga nagapamuno sa inyo gintawag nga Satanas,
“Gani indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga tawo. Kay wala sing tinago nga indi mahibaluan sa ulihi, kag wala sing sekreto nga indi mabuyagyag.
Ang mga butang nga sa inyo ko lang ginasugid, isugid ninyo sa tanan. Kag ang mga butang nga akon ginahutik sa inyo, ipahibalo ninyo sa mga tawo.
Indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga tawo nga makapatay sa inyo lawas pero indi makapatay sa inyo kalag. Ang Dios amo ang dapat ninyo kahadlukan, tungod nga siya ang sarang makalaglag sa inyo lawas kag sa inyo kalag sa impyerno.
Indi bala barato lang kon baklon ang duha ka maya? Pero wala sing isa sa ila nga mahulog sa duta nga indi suno sa pagbuot sang inyo Amay.
Kag kon parte sa inyo, bisan pa ang inyo buhok sa ulo naisip niya tanan.
Gani indi kamo magkahadlok, kay mas mahal pa kamo sang sa madamo nga maya.
“Ang bisan sin-o nga nagakilala sa akon sa atubangan sang mga tawo, kilalahon ko man siya sa atubangan sang akon Amay sa langit.
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga wala nagakilala sa akon sa atubangan sang mga tawo, indi ko man pagkilalahon sa atubangan sang akon Amay sa langit.
“Indi kamo maghunahuna nga nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan para mangin maayo ang relasyon sang isa kag isa. Nagkadto ako diri para magkontrahanay sila.
Kay tungod sa akon, magakontra ang anak nga lalaki sa iya amay, ang anak nga babayi sa iya iloy, kag ang umagad nga babayi sa iya ugangan nga babayi.
Ang mangin kontra sang isa ka tawo amo mismo ang miyembro sang iya kaugalingon nga panimalay.
“Ang nagahigugma sang iya amay ukon sang iya iloy labaw sa akon indi takos sa akon. Kag ang nagahigugma sang iya mga anak labaw sa akon indi takos sa akon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga indi magsunod sa akon tungod kay nahadlok siya nga mapatay para sa akon
Ang nagapaniguro nga indi madula ang iya kabuhi madula pa gani. Pero ang nagasikway sang iya kabuhi tungod sa iya pagsunod sa akon makabaton sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
“Ang tawo nga nagabaton sa inyo nagabaton man sa akon. Kag ang nagabaton sa akon nagabaton man sa nagpadala sa akon.
Ang tawo nga nagabaton sang propeta tungod sa pagkapropeta sini magabaton sang balos halin sa Dios pareho sang pagabatunon sang propeta. Kag ang nagabaton sang matarong nga tawo tungod sa pagkamatarong sini magabaton sang balos halin sa Dios pareho sang pagabatunon sang matarong nga tawo.
Kag ang bisan sin-o nga maghatag sang bisan isa lang ka baso nga tubig sa isa sang akon akon labing kubos nga sumulunod nga sumulunod tungod kay ini siya akon sumulunod, ina nga tawo sigurado nga magabaton sang iya balos.”
Pagkatapos nga natudluan ni Jesus ang iya dose ka sumulunod, naghalin siya sa sadto nga lugar kag nagkadto sa palibot nga mga banwa para magtudlo kag magwali sa mga tawo.
Sang ara pa si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso sa sulod sang prisohan, nabatian niya ang parte sa mga ginhimo ni Cristo, gani ginpakadto niya kay Cristo ang iya mga sumulunod
sa pagpamangkot sa iya, “Sugiri kami, ikaw bala ang amon ginapaabot ukon mahulat pa kami sang iban?”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Magbalik kamo kay Juan kag sugiri ninyo siya sang inyo nakita kag nabatian.
Sugiri ninyo siya nga ang mga bulag nakakita, ang mga piang nakalakat, ang mga may delikado nga balatian sa panit
Bulahan ang mga tawo nga wala nagaduhaduha sa akon.”
Sang makahalin na ang mga sumulunod ni Juan, nagpamangkot si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Sang pagkadto ninyo kay Juan sa kamingawan, ano ang inyo ginapaabot nga makita? Nagkadto bala kamo didto para makita ninyo ang tawo nga nagapaayon-ayon lang pareho sang tawo nga nagapaayon-ayon lang pareho sang kugon nga ginahapay-hapay sang hangin?
Ukon nagkadto bala kamo didto para makita ninyo ang tawo nga nagabayo sang malahalon? Pero ang mga nagabayo sang malahalon nagaestar sa mga palasyo sang mga hari.
Abi sugiri ninyo ako kon ngaa nagkadto kamo didto. Indi bala para makita ninyo ang isa ka propeta? Huo, kag labaw pa gani siya sa propeta.
Kay siya amo ang ginasiling sang Dios sang Dios sa Kasulatan, ‘Ipadala ko ang akon mensahero una sa imo sa pagpreparar sang imo alagyan.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, hasta subong wala pa gid sing may natawo nga maglabaw pa kay Juan. Pero karon ang bisan sin-o nga labing kubos sa mga nagapasakop sa paghari sang Dios
Halin sang pagwali ni Juan hasta subong, nagapamilit ang mga tawo nga masakop sila sa paghari sang Dios.
Kay sa wala pa mag-abot si Juan, ginpahayag na sa tanan nga sinulatan nga sinulatan sang mga propeta kag sa Kasuguan ni Moises ang parte sa paghari sang Dios ni Moises ang parte sa paghari sang Dios .
Kag kon patihon ninyo ang ila mga mensahi, si Juan amo si Elias nga ginpropesiya nga magaabot.
Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian.
“Karon, sa ano ko bala ipaanggid ang mga tawo mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon? Pareho sila sa mga bata nga nagapungko sa plasa nga nagahampang nga nagahampang . Ang isa ka grupo nagasiling sa isa,
‘Gintukaran namon kamo sang sunata nga para sa kasal,
Ang mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon pareho man sa ila, Ang mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon pareho man sa ila, kay sang pag-abot ni Juan, nakita nila nga nagapuasa siya kag wala nagainom sang bino, gani nagasiling sila nga ginagamhan siya sang demonyo.
Kag ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo, pag-abot ko ko , nakita nila nga nagakaon kag nagainom, gani nagasiling sila nga palakaon ako kag palainom. Nagasiling man sila nga abyan ako sang mga manugsukot sang buhis kag sang iban pa nga iban pa nga mga makasasala. Pero indi bali, ang mga tawo nga nagasunod sa kabubut-on sang Dios nagakomporme nga husto ang ginapahimo sang Dios sa amon.”
Pagkatapos sadto, naghambal si Jesus kontra sa mga banwa sa diin naghimo siya sang madamo nga milagro, tungod kay wala sila maghinulsol sang ila mga sala.
Nagsiling siya, “Kaluluoy kamo nga mga taga-Corazin! Kaluluoy man kamo nga mga taga-Betsaida! Kay kon ang mga milagro nga akon ginhimo sa inyo ginhimo ko sa Tyre kag sa Sidon, dugay na kuntani sila nagsuksok sang sako kag nagbutang sang abo sa ila mga ulo sa pagpakita nga nagahinulsol sila sa ila mga sala.
Gani dumduma ninyo nga sa adlaw sang paghukom, mas labaw pa nga silot ang mabaton ninyo sang sa mga taga-Tyre kag taga-Sidon.
Kag kamo nga mga taga-Capernaum nagahunahuna nga dayawon kamo bisan didto sa langit. Pero sa impyerno
Gani dumduma ninyo nga sa adlaw sang paghukom, mas labaw pa nga silot ang mabaton ninyo sang sa mga taga-Sodom.”
Sang sadto nga tion nagpangamuyo si Jesus, “Amay, nga tag-iya sang langit kag sang duta, ginadayaw ko ikaw tungod nga ang kamatuoran nga gintago mo sa mga tawo nga ginakabig nga mga tawo nga ginakabig nga mga maalam kag may mga tinun-an ginpahayag mo sa mga tawo nga pareho sang mga bata nga diutay lang ang kaalam nga diutay lang ang kaalam .
Amay, salamat gid nga amo ina ang imo kabubut-on.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, Pagkatapos sadto, nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Ang tanan nga butang gintugyan sa akon sang akon Amay. Ang Amay lang ang nakakilala sa akon nga iya akon nga iya Anak. Kag ang nakakilala sa Amay ako gid lang nga iya Anak kag ang mga tawo nga buot ko nga ipakilala sa Amay.
“Palapit kamo sa akon, tanan kamo nga ginabudlayan kag ginabug-atan kag papahuwayon ko kamo.
Magsunod kamo kag magpatudlo sa akon kay mabuot ako kag mapainubuson. Makapahuway kamo,
kay ang akon mga sugo mahapos nga tumanon kag mamag-an lang ang akon ginapahimo.”
Isa sadto ka tion, sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagaagi sila ni Jesus sa kaumahan sang trigo. Gutom gid ang iya mga sumulunod, gani namuksi sila sang mga uhay sang trigo kag nagkaon.
Pagkakita sadto sang mga Pariseo nagsiling sila kay Jesus, “Tan-awa ang imo mga sumulunod! Ginahimo nila ang ginabawal nga himuon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Wala bala ninyo mabasahi sa Kasulatan sa Kasulatan ang ginhimo ni David sang siya kag ang iya mga kaupod gin-gutom?
Nagsulod siya sa balay sang Dios kag ginkaon niya kag sang iya mga kaupod ang tinapay nga ginhalad sa Dios, bisan pa nga ginabawal sang Kasuguan sang Kasuguan ang magkaon sadto luwas lang sa mga pari.
Kag isa pa, wala bala ninyo mabasahi sa Kasuguan nga ang mga pari nagaobra nagaobra sa templo bisan Adlaw nga Inugpahuway? Isa ini ka pagsupak sa pagsulundan sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, pero wala sila nakasala.
Ang matuod may ari diri nga mas importante pa sa templo.
Naghalin si Jesus sa sadto nga lugar kag nagkadto sa simbahan sang mga Judio.
May tawo didto nga pingkaw
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Abi may karnero kamo nga nahulog sa buho sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Ano, pabay-an lang bala ninyo tungod kay Adlaw nga Inugpahuway? Siyempre, kuhaon ninyo!
Pero ang tawo mas importante pa sang sa karnero. Gani ginatugot sang Kasuguan sang Kasuguan ang pagbulig sa isigkatawo bisan pa sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa tawo nga pingkaw nga pingkaw , “Untaya ang imo kamot.” Gin-untay niya, kag nag-ayo ini pareho sang isa niya ka kamot.
Dayon nagguwa ang mga Pariseo kag nagplano sila kon paano nila mapatay si Jesus.
Sang mahibaluan ni Jesus ang plano sang mga Pariseo, naghalin siya sa sadto nga lugar. Madamo nga tawo ang nagsunod sa iya kag gin-ayo niya ang tanan nga masakiton.
Ginpaandaman niya sila nga indi magpanugid sa iban parte sa iya.
Katumanan ini sang ginsiling sang Dios paagi kay Dios paagi kay Propeta Isaias:
kag ipahayag niya ang hustisya sa mga nasyon.
kag indi mabatian ang iya tingog sa mga dalan.
Indi siya mag-untat Indi siya mag-untat hasta nga mapahari niya ang hustisya.
Kag ang mga tawo sa tanan nga nasyon magalaom sa iya.”
Karon may gindala kay Jesus nga tawo nga bulag kag apa tungod kay ginagamhan siya sang demonyo. Gin-ayo ni Jesus ang tawo kag dayon nakahambal na siya kag nakakita.
Natingala ang tanan, kag nagsiling sila, “Siya ayhan ang kaliwat ni David?”
Pagkabati sang mga Pariseo nagsiling sila, “Ina nga tawo nagatabog sang mga demonyo paagi sa gahom nga ginhatag sa iya ni Satanas
Nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila hunahuna, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kon ang mga pumuluyo sang mga pumuluyo sang isa ka ginharian magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway, ina nga ginharian malaglag. Amo man ang matabo sa bisan ano nga banwa ukon panimalay kon ang mga nagaestar dira ang mga nagaestar dira magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway.
Gani kon si Satanas mismo ang nagatabog sang iya mga sakop, nagapakita lang ina nga nagabinahin-bahin sila kag nagailinaway. Ti paano pa makapadayon ang iya ginharian?
Kag kon si Satanas ang nagahatag sa akon sang gahom para magtabog sang mga demonyo, sin-o ang nagahatag sang gahom sa inyo mga sumulunod nga nagatabog man sang mga demonyo? Ang inyo mga sumulunod mismo nagapamatuod nga sala gid kamo.
Karon, tungod kay nagatabog ako sang mga demonyo paagi sa Espiritu sang Dios, nagapamatuod ini nga ang paghari sang Dios nag-abot na sa inyo.
“Ang matuod, wala sing tawo nga sarang makasulod sa balay sang makusog nga tawo sa pagkuha sang iya mga pagkabutang kon indi niya anay paggapuson inang makusog nga tawo. Pero kon magapos na niya, makapagusto na siya sa pagkuha sang mga pagkabutang sa sina nga balay.
“Ang wala nagaapin sa akon, kontra sa akon. Kag ang wala nagabulig sa akon sa pagtipon sang mga tawo sa Dios sang mga tawo sa Dios nagapalapta lang.
Gani sugiran ko kamo; ang bisan ano nga sala kag pagpakalain, mapatawad. Pero ang nagapakalain sa Espiritu Santo Santo indi gid mapatawad.
Ang bisan sin-o nga maghambal sing malain kontra sa akon nga akon nga Anak sang Tawo mapatawad, pero ang magpakalain sa Espiritu Santo indi gid mapatawad sa sini nga panahon ukon sa palaabuton nga panahon.
“Kon maayo ang kahoy maayo man ang iya bunga; kon malain ang kahoy malain man ang iya bunga. Ang kahoy makilala sa iya bunga.
Mga kaliwat kamo sang man-og! Kag tungod nga kamo malain, paano kamo makahambal sang maayo? Kay kon ano ang ara sa tagipusuon amo man ang nagaguwa sa baba.
Ang maayo nga tawo nagahambal sang maayo, kay maayo ang iya ginahunahuna. Pero ang malain nga tawo nagahambal sang malain, kay malain ang iya ginahunahuna.
Sa pagkamatuod, sa adlaw sang paghukom, ang kada isa magapanabat sa Dios sa iya mga ginahambal nga wala sing pulos.
Kay ibasi sa imo mga ginahambal kon silutan ka ukon indi.”
May mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo nga nagsiling kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, abi pakitai kami sang isa ka milagro bilang pamatuod nga ginpadala ka sang Dios nga ginpadala ka sang Dios .”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “ Kamo nga mga tawo sa Kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon, tama kalaot kag indi matutom sa pagsunod sa Dios. Nagapangayo kamo sang milagro, pero wala sing milagro nga ipakita sa inyo luwas sa milagro nga pareho sang natabo kay Propeta Jonas.
Subong nga si Jonas tatlo ka adlaw kag tatlo ka gab-i sa tiyan sang dako nga isda, amo man ang matabo sa akon nga akon nga Anak sang Tawo. Kay magapabilin ako sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw kag tatlo ka gab-i sa idalom sang duta.
Sa adlaw sang paghukom, mabanhaw
Sa adlaw sang paghukom, mabanhaw man man ang rayna nga halin sa south
“Kon magguwa ang mahigko nga espiritu sa tawo nga iya ginsudlan, nagalibot siya sa mga lugar nga wala sing tubig kay nagapangita siya sang lugar nga iya mapahuwayan. Kon indi siya makakita sang palahuwayan
magahunahuna siya nga magbalik na lang sa iya ginhalinan. Kag kon sa iya pagbalik makita niya nga ang iya ginhalinan wala sing may nagaestar, matinlo kag nahimos ang tanan,
malakat siya dayon kag manghagad sang pito pa gid ka espiritu nga mas malain pa sang sa iya. Magasulod sila sa sadto nga tawo kag didto mag-estar. Kag ang kahimtangan sang tawo mangin grabe pa gid sang sa una. Amo man ina ang matabo sa sining malain nga henerasyon; magadugang pa gid ang ila kalaot magadugang pa gid ang ila kalaot .”
Samtang nagahambal pa si Jesus, nag-abot ang iya iloy kag ang iya mga utod. Nagahulat sila sa guwa kay luyag nila nga magpakighambal sa iya.
May isa ka tawo nga nagsiling sa iya, “Ang imo iloy kag mga utod nagahulat sa guwa. Luyag nila nga magpakighambal sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Nahibaluan mo bala kon sin-o ang akon iloy kag mga utod?”
Dayon gintudlo niya ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagsiling, “Amo ini sila ang akon iloy kag mga utod!
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga nagahimo sang kabubut-on sang akon Amay sa langit amo ang akon iloy kag mga utod.”
Sa amo man nga adlaw, nagguwa si Jesus sa balay kag nagkadto siya sa higad sang dagat
Pero tungod kay gintipunan siya sang madamo nga tawo, nagsakay siya sa sakayan nga nagapundo kag didto siya nagpungko sa pagtudlo. Ang mga tawo didto sa higad sang dagat nagapamati samtang nagatudlo siya.
“May isa ka mangunguma nga nagsab-og sang binhi.
Sa iya pagsab-og, ang iban nagtupa sa higad sang dalan, kag gintuka ini sang mga pispis.
Ang iban nagtupa sa kabatuhan. Hapaw lang ang duta sini, gani madali nga nagtubo ang binhi tungod kay manabaw ang duta.
Pero nalayong ini sang nainitan sang adlaw, kag tungod nga diutay lang ang gamot, nalaya.
Ang iban nga mga binhi nagtupa kag nagtubo sa duta nga may mga tunukon nga hilamon, pero pagdabong sang mga hilamon nalumos ang tanom.
Ang iban pa gid nga mga binhi nagtupa sa maayo nga duta, nagtubo nagtubo kag nagpamunga. Ang iban 100, ang iban 60, kag ang iban 30 ka pilo ang bunga ka pilo ang bunga .
Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian.”
Dayon nagpalapit kay Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagpamangkot, “Ngaa nagahambal ka sa mga tawo paagi sa mga paanggid?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Ang mga tinago nga kamatuoran parte sa paghari sang Dios
Kay ang tawo nga nagatuman sang iya nabatian nga kamatuoran pagahatagan pa gid sang pag-intiendi, kag madamo gid ang idugang sa iya. Pero ang tawo nga wala nagatuman sa kamatuoran, bisan ang diutay nga iya naintiendihan, kuhaon pa sa iya.
Gani nagahambal ako sa ila paagi sa mga paanggid tungod kay nagatulok sila pero indi makakita, kag nagapamati sila pero indi makaintiendi.
Sige lang kamo tulok, pero indi kamo makakita.
kag ayuhon ko sila.’
Pero bulahan kamo nga nagasunod sa akon, kay nakakita kamo kag nakabati.
Sa pagkamatuod, madamo nga propeta kag matarong nga mga tawo sang una ang naghandom nga makakita kag makabati sang inyo nakita kag nabatian subong, pero wala natabo ini sa ila tiyempo.
“Gani, pamatii ninyo kag tun-i kon ano ang kahulugan sang paanggid parte sa manugsab-og.
Ang higad sang dalan nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nagapamati sang pulong parte sa paghari sang Dios, sang Dios, pero wala sila nakaintiendi. Nag-abot si Satanas kag gin-agaw ang pulong sa ila tagipusuon.
Ang kabatuhan nga manabaw lang ang duta nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nakabati sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios kag ginbaton nila ini gilayon nga may kalipay.
Pero indi hugot sa ila tagipusuon. Gani wala magdugay ang ila pagtuo. Pag-abot sang pag-antos ukon paghingabot tungod sa pulong sang Dios nga ila ginbaton sang Dios nga ila ginbaton , nagbiya sila sa ila pagtuo.
Ang duta nga may mga hilamon nga tunukon nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nakabati sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios . Ugaling tungod sa mga palaligban sa sini nga panahon kag paghimulat nga makamanggad nalipatan nila ang pulong sang Dios sang Dios nga ila nabatian kag wala ini namunga sa ila kabuhi sa ila kabuhi .
Pero ang maayo nga duta nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nagpamati kag nakaintiendi sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios . Gani namunga gid ang pulong sa ila kabuhi sa ila kabuhi . Ang iban 100, ang iban 60, kag ang iban 30 ka pilo ang bunga ka pilo ang bunga .”
Nagpadayon si Jesus sa iya pagtudlo sa mga tawo paagi sa paanggid. Nagsiling siya, “Ang paghari sang Dios mapaanggid sa sini nga estorya: May sini nga estorya: May tawo nga nagsab-og sang maayo nga binhi sa iya duta.
Pagkagab-i, samtang ang mga tawo nagakatulog, ang iya kaaway nagkadto didto kag nagsab-og sang liso sang liso sang matag-as nga mga hilamon
Sang nagtubo ang trigo kag nagpamunga, nagtubo man ang mga hilamon.
Gani nagkadto sa iya ang iya mga ulipon kag nagsiling, ‘Indi bala maayo nga binhi ang aton ginsab-og sa imo duta? Diin naghalin ang mga hilamon?’
Nagsabat siya, ‘Ang kaaway amo ang naghimo sini.’ Gani ginpamangkot siya sang mga ulipon, ‘Gabuton bala namon ang mga hilamon?’
Nagsabat siya, ‘Indi lang, kay basi samtang ginagabot ninyo ang hilamon magabot ninyo pati ang trigo.
Pabay-i lang ninyo hasta mag-abot ang tig-alani. Sa tig-alani suguon ko ang mga manug-ani nga panggabuton anay ang mga hilamon kag bugkuson para sunugon. Pagkatapos ipatipon ko sa ila ang trigo kag dal-on sa akon bodega.’ ”
Ginsugiran pa gid niya sila sini nga paanggid, “Ang paghari sang Dios pareho sa binhi sang mustasa
Ang binhi sang mustasa amo ang pinakagamay sa tanan nga binhi. Pero kon magtubo na gani amo ang pinakamataas sa mga ulutanon, kag pareho na sa kahoy ang iya kataason. Bisan gani ang mga pispis sarang makapugad sa iya mga sanga.”
Ginsugiran naman niya sila sini nga paanggid, “Ang paghari sang Dios pareho man sa inugpahabok
Naggamit si Jesus sang mga paanggid sa tanan niya nga pagpanudlo parte sa paghari sang Dios. Wala siya sing may ginhambal sa mga tawo nga indi paagi sa paanggid.
halin pa sang pagtuga sang kalibutan.”
Pagkatapos sadto ginbayaan ni Jesus ang mga tawo kag nagsulod siya sa balay. Nagsulod man didto ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagpamangkot sa iya, “Sugiri kami kon ano ang kahulugan sang paanggid parte sa matag-as nga mga hilamon.”
Nagsiling siya, “Ang tawo nga nagsab-og sang maayo nga binhi amo ako nga amo ako nga Anak sang Tawo.
Ang duta nga ginsab-ugan amo ang kalibutan. Ang maayo nga binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nagapasakop sa paghari sang Dios. Kag ang mga hilamon amo ang mga tawo nga sakop ni Satanas.
Ang yawa amo ang kaaway nga nagsab-og sang mga hilamon. Ang tig-alani amo ang katapusan sang sini nga panahon, kag ang mga manug-ani amo ang mga anghel.
Subong nga ang hilamon ginagabot kag ginasunog dayon, amo man ang magakalatabo sa katapusan sang sini nga panahon.
Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo magapadala sang akon mga anghel para tipunon kag paguwaon halin sa mga sakop sang akon paghari ang tanan nga nagahimo sang malain nga nangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang iban.
Dayon ipilak sila sa nagadabadaba nga kalayo.
Ang mga matarong magasilak pareho sang adlaw sa paghari sang ila Amay. Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian.
“Ang paghari sang Dios pareho man sa manggad nga ginlubong sa duta nga nasapwan sang isa ka tawo. Ang iya ginhimo, gintampukan niya ini liwat, kag nagpuli siya nga malipayon. Ginbaligya niya ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang kag ginbakal niya dayon ato nga duta.
“Ang paghari sang Dios pareho man sa negosyante nga nagapangita sang mga perlas.
Sang makakita siya sang malahalon gid nga perlas, nagpuli siya kag ginbaligya ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang kag ginbakal niya dayon ato nga perlas.
“Ang paghari sang Dios pareho man sa pukot nga ginladlad sa dagat, kag sari-sari nga mga isda ang nakuha.
Sang madamo na ang isda sa pukot ginbutong ini sang mga mangingisda pahigad. Dayon nagpungko sila para pilion ang mga isda. Ang maayo nga mga isda ginbutang nila sa mga alat, pero ang malain
Pareho man sini ang matabo sa katapusan sang sini nga panahon. Magaabot diri ang mga anghel para painon ang mga tawo nga malain sa mga tawo nga matarong.
Kag ang mga tawo nga malain ipilak sa nagadabadaba nga kalayo. Magahibi sila kag magabagrot ang ila ngipon.”
Dayon nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “Naintiendihan bala ninyo ang tanan ko nga ginpanghambal?” Nagsabat sila, “Huo.”
Sa liwat nagsiling si Jesus, “Gani ang kada manunudlo nga may natun-an parte sa paghari sang Dios pareho sang tagbalay nga may madamo nga pagkabutang sa iya bodega may madamo nga pagkabutang sa iya bodega . Indi lang ang daan nga mga butang ang iya ginapaguwa sa bodega kundi pati ang mga bag-o man.”
Pagkatapos nga nagtudlo si Jesus sining mga paanggid, naghalin siya sa sina nga lugar
kag nagkadto sa iya banwa. Nagpanudlo siya didto sa simbahan sang mga Judio. Natingala sa iya ang mga tawo kag nagpinamangkutanay, “Diin bala siya nagkuha sina nga kaalam kag sang gahom sa paghimo sang mga milagro?
Indi bala nga anak siya sang panday? Indi bala si Maria ang iya iloy kag ang mga utod niya amo sila ni Santiago, Jose, Simon, kag Judas?
Indi bala ang iya mga utod nga babayi nagaestar diri? Diin bala siya nagkuha sang iya abilidad?”
Gani indi gid sila magtuo sa iya. Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ginatahod ang propeta bisan diin luwas lang sa iya kaugalingon nga banwa kag panimalay.”
Gani wala naghimo si Jesus sang madamo nga milagro didto tungod nga indi sila magtuo sa iya sa iya .
Sa sadtong mga inadlaw, nakabalita si Herodes nga manugdumala sang Galilea sang Galilea parte kay Jesus.
Gani nagsiling siya sa iya mga opisyal, “Siya amo si Juan nga manugbautiso. Nabanhaw siya! Amo ina nga may gahom siya sa paghimo sang mga milagro.”
Ipapatay kuntani ni Herodes si Juan, ugaling nahadlok siya sa mga Judio tungod nga ginakabig nila si Juan nga propeta.
Pag-abot sang kaadlawan ni Herodes, nagsaot ang dalaga nga anak ni Herodias para sa mga bisita nga nagtambong didto, kag nalipay gid si Herodes.
Gani nagsiling siya sa dalaga, “Sige, magpangayo ka sa akon bisan ano, kag ginasumpa ko nga ihatag ko gid ina sa imo.”
Sa impluwensya sang iya iloy nagsabat ang dalaga, “Ihatag mo sa akon subong ang ulo ni Juan nga manugbautiso nga nabutang sa bandehado.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Haring Herodes nagkasubo gid siya. Pero tungod nga nakapanumpa siya kag nabatian mismo sang iya mga bisita, nagsugo siya nga himuon ang ginapangayo sang dalaga.
Ginpautod niya ang ulo ni Juan didto sa prisohan.
Ginbutang nila dayon sa bandehado kag gindala sa dalaga. Kag ginhatag niya ini sa iya iloy.
Ang lawas ni Juan ginkuha sang iya mga sumulunod kag ginlubong nila dayon. Pagkatapos nagkadto sila kay Jesus kag ginsugid sa iya ang natabo kay Juan.
Sang pagkabati sadto ni Jesus, nagsakay siya sa sakayan kag nagtabok pakadto sa kamingawan. Pagkabati sang mga tawo halin sa nagkalain-lain nga banwa nga si Jesus nakahalin na nga si Jesus nakahalin na , naglakat sila pakadto sa iya kaladtuan.
Sang pagpanaog ni Jesus sa sakayan, nakita niya ang madamo gid nga mga tawo. Naluoy gid siya sa ila, kag ginpang-ayo niya ang mga masakiton nga ila gindala didto.
Sang lapit na magsirom, nagpalapit sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod. Nagsiling sila, “Hapon na gid, kag ari kita diri sa kamingawan. Palakta na ang mga tawo sa mga baryo para makabakal sila sang ila pagkaon.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi kinahanglan nga palakton sila. Kamo mismo ang maghatag sang pagkaon sa ila.”
Nagsabat sila, “Lima gid lang ka bilog ang aton tinapay kag duha ka isda.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Abi dal-a ninyo diri sa akon.”
Ginsilingan niya ang mga tawo nga magpungko sa hilamon. Dayon ginkuha niya ang lima ka tinapay kag duha ka isda, kag nagtangla siya sa langit kag nagpasalamat sa Dios sa Dios . Pagkatapos ginpamihak-pihak niya ang tinapay kag ginhatag sa iya mga sumulunod kag ginpanagtag nila ini sa mga tawo.
Nakakaon sila tanan kag nagkalabusog. Pagkatapos kaon, Pagkatapos kaon, gintipon nila ang mga nabilin, kag dose pa ka alat ang napuno.
Mga 5,000 ka lalaki ang nakakaon, wala labot ang mga babayi kag mga bata.
Pagkatapos sadto, ginsugo ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod nga magsakay sa sakayan kag mag-una didto sa tabok samtang ginapapuli niya ang mga tawo.
Sang nakahalin na ang mga tawo nagtaklad siya nga isahanon lang sa bukid para magpangamuyo. Nagab-ihan siya didto.
Sa amo man nga tion ang sakayan nga ginasakyan sang iya mga sumulunod malayo na sa baybayon kag ginabulubalinsay sang balod, tungod kay sugata sa hangin.
Sang kaagahon na, nagkadto si Jesus didto sa ila nga nagalakat sa ibabaw sang tubig.
Pagkakita sang iya mga sumulunod nga may nagalakat sa ibabaw sang tubig hinadlukan sila, kag nagsinggit, “Bagat!”
Sa gilayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi kamo magkahadlok, ako ini! Magpakaisog kamo!”
Nagsiling dayon si Pedro, “Ginoo, kon ikaw ina, pakadtua ako sa imo nga nagalakat man sa ibabaw sang tubig.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Sige, dali!” Gani nagpanaog si Pedro sa sakayan kag naglakat sa ibabaw sang tubig pakadto kay Jesus.
Pero sang matalupangdan ni Pedro nga mabaskog ang hangin, hinadlukan siya kag amat-amat siya nga naglugdang. Gani nagsinggit siya, “Ginoo, buligi ako!”
Sa gilayon gindawat siya ni Jesus kag gin-uyatan nga nagasiling, “Kadiutay sang imo pagtuo! Ngaa bala nagaduhaduha ka?”
Pagsakay nila nga duha sa sakayan nag-untat dayon ang mabaskog nga mabaskog nga hangin.
Ginsimba siya sang mga tawo sa sakayan nga nagasiling, “Matuod gid nga ikaw ang Anak sang Dios.”
Pag-abot nila sa pihak, nagdungka sila sa baybayon sa Genesaret.
Nakilala dayon si Jesus sang mga tawo didto kag ginpahibalo nila sa palibot nga mga lugar nga ara si Jesus. Gani ginpangdala sang mga tawo ang tanan nga masakiton sa iya.
Ginpangabay nila si Jesus nga tugutan niya ang mga masakiton nga tandugon siya bisan sa gaway-gaway
Pagkatapos sadto may mga Pariseo kag mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan halin sa Jerusalem nga nagpalapit kay Jesus kag nagpamangkot,
“Ngaa bala ang imo mga sumulunod wala nagasunod sa tradisyon sang aton mga katigulangan? Wala nila ginahimo ang ritual sang ritual sang pagpanghinaw sang kamot antes magkaon.”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Kamo man, ngaa ginalapas ninyo ang sugo sang Dios tungod sa inyo tradisyon nga ina?
Halimbawa, nagsiling ang Dios, ‘Tahura ang imo amay kag iloy,’
Pero kamo ya nagatudlo nga kon ang tawo maghambal sa iya ginikanan nga ang bulig nga ihatag kuntani niya sa ila natigana na nga ihatag sa Dios,
indi na kinahanglan nga magbulig siya sa ila. Ginapakawalay pulos ninyo ang pulong sang Dios tungod sa inyo tradisyon.
Mga hipokrito! Matuod gid ang ginsiling sang Dios sang Dios parte sa inyo paagi kay Propeta paagi kay Propeta Isaias,
pero ang ila tagipusuon malayo sa akon.
mga pagsulundan nga ginhimo lang sang tawo.’ ”
Gintawag ni Jesus ang mga tawo kag ginsilingan niya sila, “Pamati kamo kag intiendiha ninyo ang akon ihambal.
Ang mga butang nga nagasulod sa baba sang tawo wala nagapahigko
Dayon nagpalapit sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagsiling, “Nahibaluan mo bala nga nagsakit ang buot sang mga Pariseo sa mga ginhambal mo nga ato?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Ang kada tanom nga wala gintanom sang akon Amay sa langit pagagabuton.
Pabay-i lang ninyo sila. Mga bulag sila nga manugtuytoy. Kag kon ang bulag magatuytoy sa bulag, sila nga duha mahulog sa buho.”
Dayon nagsiling si Pedro kay Jesus, “Sugiri kami sang kahulugan sadto nga paanggid.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Wala pa bala kamo makaintiendi?
Wala bala kamo kahibalo nga ang bisan ano nga nagasulod sa baba nagaderetso sa tiyan kag sa ulihi nagaguwa sa lawas?
Pero ang nagaguwa sa baba nagahalin sa tagipusuon, kag amo ang nagapahigko sa tawo.
Kay sa tagipusuon sang tawo nagahalin ang malain nga mga panghunahuna nga amo ang nagatulod sa iya sa pagpatay, pagpanginbabayi ukon pagpanginlalaki, pagpakigrelasyon nga imoral, pagpangawat, pagtestigo sang butig, kag pagyaguta sa iya isigkatawo sa iya isigkatawo .
Amo ini ang nagapahigko sa tawo. Pero ang magkaon nga wala nahimo ang ritual sang ritual sang pagpanghinaw sang kamot indi makapahigko sa tawo.”
Naghalin si Jesus sa sadto nga lugar kag nagkadto sa mga lugar nga malapit sa Tyre kag Sidon.
May isa ka babayi nga Canaanhon nga nagaestar didto. Nagpalapit siya kay Jesus nga nagapakitluoy. Siling niya, “Ginoo, kaliwat ni David,
Pero wala nagsabat si Jesus. Ang iya mga sumulunod nagpalapit sa iya kag nagpangabay gid nga nagasiling, “Pahalina ang babayi nga ina, kay sige lang ang iya sunod sa aton kag kagahod sa iya.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Ginpadala ako diri sa pagbulig sa mga Israelinhon nga pareho sa mga karnero nga nagkaladula.”
Pero nagpalapit pa gid ang babayi kay Jesus kag nagluhod sa iya nga nagasiling, “Ginoo, buligi ako!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya sa paanggid sa paanggid , “Indi maayo nga kuhaon ang pagkaon sang mga anak kag ihaboy sa mga ido.”
Kag nagsiling ang babayi, “Husto ina Ginoo, pero bisan pa ang mga ido nagakaon sang mga usik nga nagakalahulog sa lamisa sang ila amo.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Kadako sang imo pagtuo! Gani mabaton mo ang imo ginapangayo sa akon.” Kag sa amo gid nga tion nag-ayo ang iya anak.
Naghalin didto si Jesus kag naglakat sa higad sang Dagat
Madamo nga tawo ang nagpalapit sa iya nga may dala nga mga piang, pingkaw, bulag, apa kag madamo pa nga mga masakiton. Ginpamutang sila sa tiilan ni Jesus kag ginpang-ayo niya sila tanan.
Natingala gid ang mga tawo kay nakita nila nga ang mga apa makahambal na, maayo na ang kamot sang mga pingkaw, ang mga piang makalakat na kag ang mga bulag makakita na. Kag gindayaw nila ang Dios sang Israel.
Gintawag ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod kag ginsilingan, “Naluoy gid ako sa sina nga mga tawo. Tatlo na ka adlaw nga nagaupod-upod sila sa akon kag wala na sila sing kalan-on. Indi ko gusto nga magpuli sila nga wala kakaon kay basi kon malipong sila sa dalan.”
Nagsiling ang iya mga sumulunod sa iya, “Diin bala kita makakuha sang pagkaon diri sa kamingawan para sa sining madamo nga tawo?”
Nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “Pila ka bilog ang inyo tinapay dira?” Nagsabat sila, “Pito, kag pila ka magagmay nga isda.”
Dayon ginpapungko ni Jesus ang mga tawo sa duta.
Ginkuha niya ang pito ka tinapay kag ang mga isda kag nagpasalamat sa Dios sa Dios . Pagkatapos ginpamihak-pihak niya ini kag ginhatag sa iya mga sumulunod. Kag sila amo ang nagpanagtag sa mga tawo.
Nakakaon sila tanan kag nagkalabusog. Pagkatapos gintipon nila ang tinapay nga sobra, kag nakapuno sila sang pito ka alat.
Mga 4,000 ka lalaki ang nagkalaon wala labot ang mga babayi kag mga bata.
Pagkatapos sadto ginpapuli ni Jesus ang mga tawo. Dayon nagsakay siya sa sakayan kag nagtabok sa lugar sang Magadan.
May mga Pariseo kag mga Saduceo nga nagpalapit kay Jesus sa pagtilaw sa iya. Nagpangabay sila sa iya nga magpakita siya sang milagro halin sa Dios
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kon nagasalop ang adlaw kag ang langit mapula, nagasiling kamo nga ‘Maayo ang tiyempo buwas.’
Kag kon aga pa kag ang langit magal-om, nagasiling kamo nga ‘Maulan subong nga adlaw.’ Nahibaluan ninyo kon magaulan ukon indi paagi sa pagtan-aw sa langit, pero indi kamo kahibalo sang kahulugan sang mga nagakalatabo subong.
Kamo nga mga tawo sa Kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon, tama kalaot kag indi matutom sa pagsunod sa Dios. Nagapangayo kamo sing milagro, pero wala sing milagro nga ipakita sa inyo luwas sa milagro nga pareho sang natabo kay Jonas.” Dayon naghalin siya.
Nagtabok si Jesus kag ang iya si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa pihak sang dagat, pero ang iya mga sumulunod nalipat magbalon sang pagkaon.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Mag-andam gid kamo sa inugpahabok
Pagkabati sadto sang iya mga sumulunod nagsiling sila, “Siguro ginhambal niya ato tungod kay wala kita nakadala sang tinapay.”
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus kon ano ang ila ginahunahuna. Gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ngaa nagabinaisay kamo nga wala kamo nakadala sang tinapay? Kadiutay sang inyo pagtuo!
Wala pa bala ninyo maintiendihi nga indi kita dapat magpalibog parte sa tinapay nga indi kita dapat magpalibog parte sa tinapay ? Wala bala ninyo madumdumi ang lima ka bilog nga tinapay nga akon ginpamihak-pihak para makakaon ang 5,000 ka tawo? Nalipatan bala ninyo kon pila ka alat ang inyo napuno sa mga nabilin nga tinapay?
Wala bala ninyo madumdumi nga sa pito ka bilog nga tinapay ginpakaon ko ang 4,000 ka tawo, kag pila pa ka alat ang sobra?
Ti ngaa wala kamo makaintiendi nga indi tinapay ang akon buot hambalon sang pagsiling ko nga, ‘Mag-andam kamo sa inugpahabok sa tinapay sang mga Pariseo kag mga Saduceo’?”
Gani naintiendihan nila nga indi gali ang inugpahabok sa tinapay ang ila dapat likawan kundi ang pagpanudlo sang mga Pariseo kag mga Saduceo.
Karon, sang didto na sila ni Jesus sa lugar sang Cesarea Filipos nagpamangkot siya sa iya mga sumulunod, “Suno sa mga tawo, sin-o bala ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo?”
Nagsabat sila, “May nagasiling nga ikaw si Juan nga manugbautiso. Ang iban nagasiling nga ikaw si Elias. May iban pa gid nga nagasiling nga ikaw si Jeremias, kag kon indi, basta isa sa mga propeta.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Pero suno sa inyo, sin-o bala ako?”
Nagsabat si Simon Pedro, “Ikaw ang Cristo, ang Anak sang Dios nga buhi!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Simon nga anak ni Jonas, bulahan ka, tungod kay ang nagsugid sa imo sini nga butang indi tawo kundi ang akon Amay sa langit.
Kag tungod sini ginatawag ko ikaw nga Pedro, nga kon sayuron ‘bato.’ nga kon sayuron ‘bato.’ Kag sa sini nga bato pagatukuron ko ang akon iglesya, kag bisan ang gahom sang kamatayon
Ihatag ko sa imo ang awtoridad sa paghari sang Dios.
Dayon ginpaandaman ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod nga indi gid sila magpanugid bisan kay sin-o nga siya amo ang Cristo.
Halin sadto ginpaathag ni Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod kon ano ang matabo sa iya. Nagsiling siya, “Kinahanglan gid nga magkadto ako sa Jerusalem. Didto magaantos gid ako sa himuon sa akon sang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, sang manugdumala nga mga pari, kag sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Ipapatay nila ako, pero sa ikatlo nga adlaw mabanhaw ako.”
Sang pagsiling niya sadto gindala siya ni Pedro sa ulo-unhan kag ginsaway, “Ginoo, ipalayo lang sa imo ang ginhambal mo nga ina. Indi pag-itugot sang Dios nga matabo ina sa imo.”
Nagliso si Jesus kag nagsiling sa iya, “Palayo ka sa akon, Satanas! Ginabalabagan mo ako nga maghimo sang kabubut-on sang Dios tungod kay ang imo hunahuna indi iya sang Dios kundi iya sang tawo!”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Kon may tawo nga gusto magsunod sa akon, indi niya dapat pagpasulabihon ang iya kaugalingon. Kag dapat handa siya sa pag-atubang sa kamatayon
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga luyag magluwas sang iya kabuhi madula niya ini. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga maghalad sang iya kabuhi tungod sa akon makaangkon sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Ano gid bala ang makuha sang tawo kon maangkon niya ang tanan nga butang diri sa kalibutan, pero mawala ang iya kabuhi? Wala gid! Kay wala gid sang butang nga sarang niya mahatag para mapabalik niya ang iya kabuhi.
Kay ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magabalik diri sa kalibutan nga nagasilak sa gahom sang akon Amay, kag kaupod ko ang iya mga anghel. Dayon balusan ko ang tagsa-tagsa suno sa iya mga binuhatan.
Sa pagkamatuod, may mga tawo diri nga indi pa mapatay hasta makita nila ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo nga nagabalik diri bilang Hari.”
Pagligad sang anom ka adlaw gindala ni Jesus si Pedro kag ang mag-utod nga si Santiago kag si Juan sa mataas nga bukid nga silahanon lang.
Samtang nagatulok sila kay Jesus, nagbalhin ang iya dagway. Ang iya guya nagsilak pareho sang adlaw, kag ang iya bayo nagputi nga nagasilak.
Hinali lang nakita nila si Moises kag si Elias nga nagapakig-estorya sa iya.
Dayon nagsiling si Pedro kay Jesus, “Ginoo, maayo nga ari kami
Wala pa siya makatapos hambal ginlikupan sila sang masilaw nga panganod. Kag may nabatian sila nga tingog halin sa panganod nga nagasiling, “Amo ini ang akon hinigugma nga Anak. Nalipay gid ako sa iya. Pamatii ninyo siya!”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga sumulunod, nagluhod sila sa tuman nga kahadlok.
Ginpalapitan sila ni Jesus kag gintandog nga nagasiling, “Tindog kamo! Indi kamo magkahadlok!”
Sang pagtangla nila wala sila sing iban nga nakita didto kundi si Jesus gid lang.
Sang nagapadulhog na sila sa bukid, ginmanduan sila ni Jesus, “Indi gid kamo magpanugid bisan kay sin-o parte sa inyo nakita samtang ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo wala pa mabanhaw.”
Pagkatapos nagpamangkot sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod, “Ngaa bala nagasiling ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga kinahanglan mag-abot anay si Elias sa wala pa mag-abot ang Cristo sa wala pa mag-abot ang Cristo ?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Husto ina, kinahanglan nga mag-abot anay si Elias para ipreparar niya ang tanan nga butang.
Pero sugiran ko kamo, si Elias nag-abot na. Ugaling wala lang siya nakilala sang mga tawo kag ginhimo nila ang ila gusto sa iya. Kag amo man ang ila himuon sa akon nga akon nga Anak sang Tawo. Paantuson man nila ako.”
Dayon naintiendihan sang iya mga sumulunod nga si Juan nga manugbautiso amo ang iya ginatumod.
Sang pag-abot nila sa madamo nga tawo may isa ka lalaki nga nagpalapit kay Jesus kag nagluhod nga nagasiling,
Gindala ko siya sa imo mga sumulunod, pero indi sila makapaayo sa iya.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “ Kamo nga mga tawo sa Kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon wala sing pagtuo kag mga balingag. Hasta san-o pa bala ang akon pag-antos sa inyo? Dal-a ninyo diri sa akon ang bata!”
Ginsabdong dayon ni Jesus ang demonyo sa bata kag sa gilayon nagguwa ini. Sa sadto gid nga tion nag-ayo ang bata.
Sang silahanon na lang nagpalapit kay Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagpamangkot, “Ngaa bala indi namon matabog ang espiritu sa bata sa bata ?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Tungod kay kulang ang inyo pagtuo. Sa pagkamatuod, kon may pagtuo kamo nga pareho sa binhi sang mustasa, sarang kamo makasiling sa sini nga bukid, ‘Saylo ka didto!’ Kag ang bukid masaylo. Wala gid sang butang nga indi ninyo mahimo.”
Pero ini nga klase sang espiritu indi ninyo matabog kon indi kamo magpangamuyo kag magpuasa.
Samtang nagatilipon ang iya mga sumulunod didto sa Galilea, nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “ Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo kinahanglan na
nga magapatay sa akon. Pero sa ikatlo nga adlaw mabanhaw ako.” Nagkasubo gid ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus sa iya ginsiling ni Jesus sa iya ginsiling .
Sang pag-abot nila ni Jesus sa Capernaum, ginpalapitan si Pedro sang mga manugsukot sang buhis sa templo kag ginpamangkot, “Nagabayad bala ang inyo manunudlo sang buhis para sa templo?”
Pagsulod ni Pedro sa balay ginpamangkot siya dayon ni Jesus, “Simon, kon sa imo abi, sin-o bala ang ginapabayad sang mga hari diri sa kalibutan sang buhis, ang ila bala mga anak ukon ang iban?”
Nagsabat si Pedro, “Siyempre ang iban.” Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Kon amo sina, nagakahulugan nga ang mga anak indi kinahanglan nga magbayad.
Ugaling kon indi kita magbayad basi kon maglain ang ila buot sa aton, gani magkadto ka sa dagat kag magpamunit. Abrihan mo ang baba sang una nga isda nga imo makuha kag makita mo didto ang kuwarta nga sarang ta ibayad para sa aton buhis nga duha. Kuhaon mo ang kuwarta kag ibayad dayon sa mga nagasukot sang buhis para sa templo.”
Sang sadto nga tion, nagpalapit kay Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagpamangkot, “Sin-o gid bala ang labaw sa tanan nga nasakop sa paghari sang Dios?”
Gintawag ni Jesus ang bata nga gamay kag ginpatindog niya sa ila tunga.
Dayon nagsiling siya, “Sa pagkamatuod, kon indi kamo magbag-o kag mangin pareho sa magagmay nga mga bata, indi gid kamo masakop sa paghari sang Dios.
Kay ang tawo nga nagapaubos pareho sa sini nga bata, amo ang labaw sa tanan nga nasakop sa paghari sang Dios.
“Kag ang bisan sin-o nga nagabaton sa bata nga pareho sini tungod sa akon,
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sining magagmay nga mga kabataan nga nagatuo sa akon, maayo pa sa iya nga higtan ang iya liog sang galingan nga bato kag itagbong siya sa lawod.
“Kaluluoy ang mga tawo diri sa kalibutan tungod sa mga butang nga mangin kabangdanan sang ila pagpakasala. Kon sa bagay ini nga mga butang nagaabot gid man. Pero kaluluoy gid ang tawo nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang iya isigkatawo.
“Kon ang imo kamot ukon tiil amo ang kabangdanan sang imo pagpakasala, utda ina kag ipilak! Mas maayo pa nga isa lang ang imo kamot ukon tiil pero may kabuhi ka nga wala sing katapusan sang sa duha ang imo kamot ukon tiil pero ipilak ka man lang sa kalayo nga nagadabadaba sa wala sing katapusan.
Kag kon ang imo mata amo ang kabangdanan sang imo pagpakasala, lukata ina kag ipilak! Mas maayo pa nga isa lang ang imo mata pero may kabuhi ka nga wala sing katapusan sang sa duha ang imo mata pero ipilak ka man lang sa kalayo sa impyerno.
“Mag-andam kamo nga indi gid ninyo pag-ibaliwala bisan ang isa sa sining magagmay nga mga bata. Kay ang matuod, ang mga anghel sang Dios nga nagabantay sa ila ara permi sa atubangan sang akon Amay sa langit.
Kay ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo nagkadto diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan sa pagluwas sa mga tawo nga nagkaladula tungod sa ila mga sala tungod sa ila mga sala .
“Kon ang isa ka tawo may 100 ka karnero kag nadula ang isa, ano bala ang iya himuon? Sigurado gid nga bayaan niya ang 99 nga nagahalab sa mga bukid kag pangitaon niya ang karnero nga nadula.
Kag kon iya ini makita malipay gid siya. Sa pagkamatuod, mas dako ang iya kalipay sa isa nga nadula nga iya nakita sang sa 99 nga wala nadula.
Amo man ina ang balatyagon sang inyo Amay sa langit. Indi gid niya luyag nga madula ang bisan isa lang ka gamay nga bata.
“Kon ang imo kapareho nga tumuluo nakasala sa imo, kadtuan mo siya kag sugiran mo dayon sang iya ginhimo nga sala. Pero ini himuon mo nga kamohanon lang. Kon magpamati siya sa imo, magaayuhay kamo liwat, kag mapabalik mo siya sa Dios.
Pero kon indi siya magpamati sa imo, magdala ka sang isa ukon duha man ka tumuluo para ‘ang akusasyon mapamatud-an sang duha ukon tatlo ka saksi,’
Pero kon indi pa gid siya magpamati sa ila, isugid ini sa iglesya. Kag kon indi pa gid siya magpamati sa ila, indi na ninyo siya pagsapaka kundi kabiga ninyo siya nga pareho sang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios ukon pareho sang mga manugsukot sang buhis.
“Sa pagkamatuod, ang bisan ano nga indi ninyo pagtugutan diri sa kalibutan amo man ang indi pagtugutan sang Dios, kag ang bisan ano nga tugutan ninyo amo man ang tugutan sang Dios.
“Kag sa pagkamatuod, kon ang duha sa inyo diri sa kalibutan magsugtanay parte sa bisan ano nga inyo pangayuon sa pangamuyo, himuon ina sa inyo sang akon Amay sa langit.
Kay kon diin ang duha ukon tatlo nga nagatipon tungod sa akon,
Nagpalapit si Pedro kay Jesus kag nagpamangkot, “Ginoo, kon ang akon utod
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Indi lang kapito, kundi ka-77.
Kay ang paghari sang Dios mapaanggid sa sini nga estorya: May sini nga estorya: May isa ka hari nga nagahusay sang mga utang sang iya mga ulipon.
Samtang nagahusay siya sang ila mga utang, may gindala sa iya nga ulipon nga ang iya utang minilyon.
Tungod nga indi siya makabayad nagsugo ang hari nga ibaligya siya pati ang iya asawa kag ang iya mga bata. Kag ibaligya man ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang para mabayaran niya ang iya utang.
Ang ginhimo sang ulipon, nagluhod siya sa hari kag nagpakitluoy nga nagasiling, ‘Pasensyaha lang ako anay kay bayaran ko gid ikaw sang tanan!’
Naluoy ang hari sa iya, gani ginpatawad siya kag wala na pagpabayara sang iya utang, kag ginpapuli siya.
“Pagpuli sang ato nga ulipon, nasugata niya ang kapareho niya nga ulipon nga may utang sa iya nga gamay gid lang. Gindakop niya siya kag ginkuga dayon nga nagasiling, ‘Bayari ako sang imo utang!’
Nagluhod sa iya ang iya kapareho nga ulipon nga nagapakitluoy, ‘Pasensyaha lang ako anay kay bayaran ko gid ikaw!’
Pero wala gid siya nagpasugot. Ginpapriso gid niya ang ulipon nga ato hasta makabayad.
Pagkakita sadto sang iban pa gid nga mga ulipon naglain ang ila buot, gani nagkadto sila sa ila hari kag ginsugid ang parte sa natabo.
Ginpatawag sang hari ang ulipon kag nagsiling, ‘Masyado ka kalain nga ulipon. Ginpatawad ko ikaw sa imo utang sa akon tungod kay nagpakitluoy ka sa akon.
Ngaa bala wala mo pagkaluoyi ang imo kapareho nga ulipon pareho sang akon pagkaluoy sa imo?’
Naakig gid ang hari sa iya, gani ginpapriso siya kag ginpasilutan hasta mabayaran ang tanan niya nga utang.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Amo man ini ang himuon sa inyo sang akon Amay sa langit kon indi kamo magpatawad sa inyo kapareho sing tinagipusuon.”
Pagkatapos sang pagpanudlo ni Jesus sadto nga mga butang, naghalin siya sa Galilea kag nagkadto sa mga lugar nga sakop sang Judea sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Madamo nga tawo ang nagsunod sa iya, kag ginpang-ayo niya sila sa ila mga masakit.
Karon, may mga Pariseo nga nagkadto man didto sa iya sa pagtilaw
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Wala bala kamo nakabasa sa Kasulatan nga sang ginsuguran ‘ginhimo sang Dios ang tawo nga lalaki kag babayi’
Pagkatapos nagsiling ang Dios, ‘Amo ina ang rason nga bayaan sang lalaki ang iya amay kag iloy kag mag-upod sa iya asawa, kag sila nga duha mangin isa.’
Indi na sila duha kundi isa. Gani indi dapat bulagon sang tawo ang gin-isa sang Dios.”
Liwat nagsiling ang mga Pariseo sa iya, “Ngaa nagsiling si Moises nga puwede bulagan sang lalaki ang iya asawa, basta hatagan lang niya sang kasulatan sang pagbulagay?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Gintugutan kamo ni Moises nga bulagan ninyo ang inyo asawa tungod kay matig-a ang inyo ulo. Pero indi amo ina ang plano sang Dios halin sang ginsuguran.
Amo ina nga nagasiling ako sa inyo nga kon bulagan sang lalaki ang iya asawa nga wala man lang naghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon,
Dayon nagsiling ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus, “Kon amo ina ang pagsulundan sa mag-asawa, maayo pa nga indi na lang magpangasawa.”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Ini nga pagtulun-an indi mabaton sang tanan luwas sang mga tawo nga ginhatagan sini sang Dios sang Dios .
May madamo nga kabangdanan kon ngaa may mga lalaki nga indi makapangasawa: ang iban natawo nga indi makapangasawa; ang iban indi makapangasawa tungod nga ginkapon sila; kag ang iban pa gid indi magpangasawa tungod sa ila pagpasulabi sa paghari sang Dios.
Karon, may mga tawo nga nagdala sang magagmay nga mga bata kay Jesus para tungtungan niya sang iya kamot kag pangamuyuan. Pero ginsaway sila sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Pabay-i lang ninyo ang mga bata nga magpalapit sa akon. Indi ninyo sila pagpunggi, kay ang mga pareho sa ila nasakop sa paghari sang Dios.”
Dayon gintungtong ni Jesus ang iya kamot sa mga bata kag ginbendisyunan niya sila. Pagkatapos sadto naglakat siya.
May isa ka tawo nga nagpalapit kay Jesus kag nagpamangkot, “Manunudlo, ano bala ang maayo nga dapat ko himuon para maangkon ko ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ngaa nagpamangkot ka sa akon kon ano ang maayo? Isa lang ang maayo, kag wala sing iban kundi ang Dios. Kon gusto mo nga makabaton sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan tumanon mo ang mga sugo.”
Nagpamangkot siya liwat, “Ano nga mga sugo?” Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Indi ka magpatay, indi ka magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki, indi ka magpangawat, indi ka magsaksi sing butig,
tahuron mo ang imo amay kag iloy,
Nagsabat ang pamatan-on, “Ina tanan ginatuman ko. Ano pa bala ang kulang sa akon?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Kon gusto mo nga wala ka na gid sing kakulangan sa panulok sang Dios sa panulok sang Dios , magpuli ka kag ibaligya ang imo mga pagkabutang, kag ang kuwarta ipanagtag mo sa mga imol. Sa sini nga paagi makaangkon ka sang manggad sa langit. Dayon, magbalik ka kag magsunod sa akon.”
Pagkabati sadto sang pamatan-on naghalin siya nga masinulub-on kay madamo ang iya manggad.
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Sa pagkamatuod, mabudlay gid para sa isa ka manggaranon nga magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios.
Mas mahapos pa nga mag-agi ang camel sa buho sang dagom sang sa magpasakop ang manggaranon sa paghari sang Dios.”
Pagkabati sadto sang iya mga sumulunod, natingala gid sila. Gani nagpamangkot sila, “Ti kon amo sina, sin-o na lang ang maluwas?”
Gintulok sila ni Jesus kag ginsilingan, “Kon sa tawo lang indi gid ini mahimo, pero kon sa Dios ang tanan nga butang mahimo.”
Dayon nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Ti kami, ginbayaan namon ang tanan kag nagsunod sa imo. Karon, ano bala ang amon mabaton nga balos?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, magaabot ang adlaw nga bag-uhon sang Dios ang kalibutan, kag ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magapungko sa akon harianon nga trono. Sa sina nga adlaw, kamo nga nagsunod sa akon magapungko sa dose ka trono para hukman ninyo ang dose ka tribo sang Israel.
Kag ang bisan sin-o nga nagbiya sa iya balay, mga utod, amay, iloy, mga bata, ukon mga duta tungod sa akon magabaton sang madamo pa gid nga balos, kag magapanubli sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Madamo nga dungganon subong nga sa ulihi mangin kubos, kag madamo nga kubos subong nga sa ulihi mangin dungganon.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ang paghari sang Dios mapaanggid sa sini nga estorya: May sini nga estorya: May isa ka tawo nga may talamnan sang ubas. Naglakat siya aga pa gid sa pagpangita sang mga tawo nga maobra sa iya talamnan.
Sang makakita siya sang mga trabahador, Sang makakita siya sang mga trabahador, nagkasugot sila nga ang ibayad sa ila suno man sa inadlaw nga suhol. Dayon ginpakadto niya sila sa iya talamnan.
Sang mga alas nuwebe na sang aga, naglakat naman ang tag-iya kag may nakita siya nga mga tawo nga nagaistambay lang sa merkado tungod nga wala sila sing obra.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, ‘Mag-obra kamo didto sa akon talamnan, kay suhulan ko kamo sing husto.’
Gani nagkadto sila didto kag nag-obra. Sang udto na, naglakat naman ang tag-iya, kag nakakita naman siya sang mga trabahador kag nakakita naman siya sang mga trabahador . Amo man ang iya ginhimo pag-abot sang mga alas tres sang hapon.
Pag-abot sang alas singko, naglakat naman siya, kag may nakita naman siya nga mga nagaistambay. Nagsiling siya sa ila, ‘Ngaa bala nagaistambay lang kamo diri sa bilog nga adlaw?’
Nagsabat sila, ‘Ti ano man ang amon himuon, kay wala sing may nagapaobra sa amon.’ Gani ginsilingan niya sila nga magkadto sa iya talamnan kag mag-obra.
“Sang sirom na, nagsiling ang tag-iya sang talamnan sa iya engkargado, ‘Tawga ang mga nagaulobra kag suwelduhan. Unahon mo bayad ang naulihi gid nga nag-obra kag pasunod hasta sa mga nahauna nga nag-obra.’
Ang mga nag-obra sugod sang mga alas singko ginhatagan sang suweldo para sa isa ka adlaw nga obra.
Sang suhulan na ang mga aga pa gid nag-umpisa obra, naghunahuna sila nga dako ang ila mabaton sang sa mga tawo nga naulihi nga nag-obra. Pero ang kada isa sa ila ginsuhulan man sang para sa isa ka adlaw nga obra.
Pagkabaton nila sadto, nagreklamo sila sa tag-iya.
Siling nila, ‘Ang mga naulihi isa ka oras lang ang ila obra, pero kami ya isa ka adlaw gid ang amon pagpabalhas kag pagpainit, pero palareho lang ang imo suhol sa amon!’
Nagsiling siya sa isa sa ila, ‘Amigo, wala ko ikaw pagdayai. Indi bala nagkasugot kita nga bayaran ko ikaw suno sa inadlaw nga suhol?
Batuna ang kantidad nga para sa imo inobrahan kag magpuli. Kay akon ini gusto nga hatagan ang naulihi nga nag-obra pareho sa akon ginhatag sa imo.
Indi bala makapagusto ako sang akon himuon sa akon kuwarta kay akon ini? Ayhan nahisa ka lang tungod kay maayo ako sa ila.’
“Gani amo man ina ang matabo ang matabo . Ang mga kubos subong amo ang mangin dungganon sa ulihi, kag ang mga dungganon subong amo ang mangin kubos sa ulihi.”
Sang nagapakadto na sila ni Jesus sa Jerusalem, ginpain niya ang dose ka apostoles ka apostoles sa mga tawo kay may inugsugid siya sa ila.
Nagsiling siya, “Pamati kamo! Nagapataklad kita sa Jerusalem kag ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo itugyan didto sa manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag sentensyahan nila ako nga patyon.
Dayon itugyan nila ako sa mga indi Judio para yagutaon, hanuton, kag ilansang sa krus. Pero sa ikatlo nga adlaw mabanhaw ako.”
Nagpalapit kay Jesus ang asawa ni Zebedee upod ang iya duha ka anak nga lalaki. Nagluhod siya kay Jesus kay may ipangabay siya.
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ano ang imo gusto?” Nagsabat ang asawa ni Zebedee, “Kon mahimo, kon maghari ka na, papungkuon mo ang akon duha ka anak sa imo tupad; ang isa sa tuo kag ang isa sa wala.”
Pero ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Wala kamo makahibalo kon ano ang inyo ginapangayo. Masarangan bala ninyo ang mga pag-antos nga antuson ko?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Masarangan ninyo gani, pero indi ako ang nagapili kon sin-o ang mapungko sa akon tuo kag sa akon wala. Kay may ara na nga gintigan-an sini ang akon Amay.”
Pagkabati sang napulo ka sumulunod kon ano ang ila ginpangayo, nangakig gid sila sa mag-utod.
Gani gintawag sila tanan ni Jesus kag ginsilingan, “Nahibaluan ninyo nga ang mga manugdumala sang mga nasyon may gahom sa ila mga sakop kag pagusto lang sila kon ano ang ila himuon sa ila.
Pero indi amo ini ang sa inyo. Kay kon sin-o sa inyo ang gusto nga mangin gamhanan, dapat mangin suluguon siya ninyo.
Kag kon sin-o sa inyo ang gusto nga mangin pangulo, dapat mangin ulipon siya sang tanan.
Bisan pa gani ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo wala nagkadto diri sa kalibutan para alagaran kundi mag-alagad kag maghatag sang akon kabuhi para matubos ang madamo nga tawo.”
Sang nagapaguwa na sila ni Jesus sa Jerico, madamo nga tawo ang nagsunod sa iya.
Karon, may duha didto ka bulag nga nagapungko sa higad sang dalan. Nabatian nila nga nagaagi si Jesus, gani nagsinggit sila, “Ginoo,
Ginsaway sila sang mga tawo nga maghipos. Pero gintuduhan pa gid gani nila singgit, “Ginoo, kaliwat ni David, kaluoyi kami!”
Nagpundo si Jesus, gintawag niya sila kag ginpamangkot, “Ano ang inyo gusto nga himuon ko sa inyo?”
Nagsabat sila, “Ginoo, gusto namon nga makakita!”
Naluoy si Jesus sa ila, gani gintandog niya ang ila mga mata, kag sa gilayon nakakita sila. Dayon nagsunod sila sa iya.
Sang malapit na sila ni Jesus sa Jerusalem kag nakaabot na sa baryo sang baryo sang Betfage, sa Bukid sang mga Olibo, ginpauna ni Jesus ang duha niya ka sumulunod.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Mag-una kamo didto sa sunod nga baryo. Pagsulod ninyo, may makita kamo nga donkey nga nahigot kag ara man ang iya bata. Hubari ninyo kag dal-a diri sa akon.
Kon may magpamangkot sa inyo, sabta ninyo, ‘Kinahanglan ini sang Ginoo,’ kag ipadala niya dayon sa inyo.”
Ini natabo para matuman ang ginhambal sang propeta:
nagasakay sa bataon nga donkey.”
Gani naglakat ang duha ka sumulunod kag gintuman nila ang sugo ni Jesus.
Gindala nila ang donkey upod ang bata sini didto kay Jesus. Ginhapinan nila ini sang ila mga panapton kag ginsakyan dayon ni Jesus.
Madamo gid nga tawo ang naghumlad sang ila mga panapton sa dalan, kag ang iban nagtapas sang mga sanga sang mga kahoy kag ginladlad ini sa dalan bilang pagpadungog kay Jesus bilang pagpadungog kay Jesus .
“Dayawon ta ang Dios!”
Sang pagsulod ni Jesus sa Jerusalem naggirinual ang mga tawo didto. Nagsiling sila, “Sin-o bala ang tawo nga ina?”
Nagsabat ang mga tawo nga kaupod ni Jesus, “Amo ini ang propeta nga si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret nga sakop sang Galilea.”
Nagkadto si Jesus sa templo kag gintabog niya ang mga tawo nga nagapamakal kag nagabaligya didto. Ginpamaliskad niya ang mga lamisa sang mga manugbaylo sang kuwarta kag ang mga pulungkuan sang mga manugbaligya sang mga pating nga inughalad nga inughalad .
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Nagasiling ang Dios ang Dios sa Kasulatan, ‘Ang akon balay tawgon nga balay nga palangamuyuan.’
May mga bulag kag mga lupog nga nagpalapit sa iya didto sa templo kag gin-ayo niya sila.
Naakig ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan sang makita nila ang makatilingala nga mga butang nga iya ginahimo kag sang mabatian nila ang mga kabataan didto sa templo nga nagasinggit, “Dayawon ta ang kaliwat ni David!”
gintudluan mo nga magdayaw sa imo’
Dayon ginbayaan sila ni Jesus. Nagguwa siya sa siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem kag nagpa-Betania kag didto nagtulog.
Pagkaaga, sang nagapabalik na si Jesus sa siyudad sang Jerusalem gin-gutom siya.
Karon, may nakita siya nga kahoy nga higera sa higad sang dalan. Gani ginpalapitan niya ini, pero wala siya sing may nakita nga bunga kundi mga dahon lang. Nagsiling siya dayon sa kahoy, “Indi ka na makapamunga hasta san-o!” Kag sa gilayon nalaya ang higera.
Sang makita ini sang iya mga sumulunod natingala gid sila. Nagsiling sila, “Ngaa nalaya gilayon ang higera?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, kon may pagtuo kamo kag wala nagaduhaduha, mahimo man ninyo ang ginhimo ko sa kahoy nga higera. Kag indi lang ina kundi makasiling kamo bisan pa sa sini nga bukid, ‘Maghalin ka kag magsaylo sa dagat,’ kag matabo ina.
Ang bisan ano nga inyo pangayuon sa pangamuyo mabaton gid ninyo, kon nagatuo kamo.”
Nagkadto liwat si Jesus sa templo. Kag samtang nagatudlo siya didto, nagpalapit sa iya ang mga manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga manugdumala sang mga Judio kag nagpamangkot, “Ano bala ang imo awtoridad sa paghimo sang mga butang nga imo ginahimo diri sa templo? Sin-o ang naghatag sa imo sang sini nga awtoridad?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Mamangkot man ako sa inyo. Kag kon masabat ninyo ini, sabton ko man kamo kon ano ang akon awtoridad sa paghimo sini nga mga butang.
Kay sin-o bala naghalin ang awtoridad ni Juan sa pagbautiso, sa Dios
Pero kon magsiling kita nga halin sa tawo, delikado kita sa mga tawo kay nagapati sila nga si Juan propeta sang Dios sang Dios .”
Gani nagsabat sila kay Jesus, “Wala kami kahibalo.” Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ti indi ko man kamo pagsugiran kon kay sin-o awtoridad ginahimo ko ini nga mga butang.”
Nagsiling liwat si Jesus sa ila, Nagsiling liwat si Jesus sa ila, “Suno sa inyo hunahuna, ano ang buot silingon sini? May isa ka tawo nga may duha ka anak nga lalaki. Ginkadtuan niya ang magulang kag ginsilingan, ‘Toto, magkadto ka subong sa aton talamnan sang ubas kag mag-obra.’
Nagsabat siya, ‘Indi ko!’ Pero sang ulihi nagbaylo ang iya hunahuna kag nagkadto siya sa ila talamnan kag nag-obra.
Nagkadto man ang amay sa manghod kag ginsilingan man niya siya pareho sang iya ginsiling sa magulang. Nagsabat ang manghod, ‘Huo, tay,’ pero wala siya nagtuman.
Ti, diin sa duha ang nagtuman sang sugo sang iya amay?” Nagsabat sila, “Ang magulang.” Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, nauna pa sa inyo nga nagapasakop sa paghari sang Dios ang mga manugsukot sang buhis kag ang mga babayi nga nagbaligya sang ila lawas.
Kay si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso nagkadto diri kag nagtudlo sa inyo sang husto nga paagi para mangin matarong kamo, pero wala kamo nagpati sa iya. Ang mga manugsukot sang buhis kag ang mga babayi nga nagbaligya sang ila lawas nagpati sa iya. Kag bisan nakita ninyo ini, wala gid kamo nagbag-o sang inyo hunahuna kag nagpati sa iya.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Pamatii ninyo ang isa pa gid ka paanggid. May isa ka tawo nga may duta nga ginpatamnan niya sang ubas. Ginpakudalan niya ini, kag nagpahimo siya sang buho sa dako nga bato para pulugaan sang ubas. Nagpatindog man siya sang isa ka balantayan. Pagkatapos ginpaagsahan niya ang iya talamnan kag naglakat sa malayo nga lugar.
Sang tion na sang pagpangharvest sang ubas, ginsugo niya ang iya mga ulipon sa mga agsador
Pero pag-abot didto sang mga ulipon, ginpangdakop sila sang mga agsador. Ginbunal nila ang isa, ginpatay ang isa, kag ginbato pa gid nila ang isa.
Pagkatapos sadto nagsugo ang tag-iya sang madamo pa gid nga mga ulipon sang sa nauna. Pero amo man gihapon ang ginhimo sa ila.
Sang ulihi ginpadala niya ang iya anak. Naghunahuna siya nga tahuron nila ang iya anak.
Pero pagkakita sang mga agsador sa iya anak, nagsiling sila, ‘Ari na ang manunubli. Dali, patyon ta siya para mangin aton ang iya palanublion.’
Gani gindakop nila siya kag gindala didto sa guwa sang talamnan kag ginpatay.”
Dayon nagpamangkot si Jesus, Dayon nagpamangkot si Jesus, “Kon magbalik ang tag-iya sang talamnan, ano bala ang iya himuon sa sadto nga mga agsador?”
Nagsabat sila, “Pamatyon niya atong malain nga mga agsador kag indi gid niya pagkaluoyan. Dayon paagsahan niya ang iya talamnan sa mga agsador nga magahatag sang iya parte sa kada patubas.”
kag makatilingala ini sa aton!’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Amo ina nga indi na kamo ang pagaharian sang Dios kundi ang katawhan nga nagatuman sang iya mga ginapahimo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga mahulog sa sini nga bato mabali, pero ang mahulugan sang amo nga bato madugmok gid.”
Pagkabati sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga Pariseo sang mga paanggid ni Jesus, naintiendihan nila nga sila ang iya ginatumod.
Gani gusto na gid nila nga dakpon si Jesus, pero nahadlok sila sa mga tawo tungod kay ginakilala nila nga propeta si Jesus.
Nagtudlo liwat si Jesus sa ila paagi sa paanggid.
Nagsiling siya, “Ang paghari sang Dios
Ginsugo niya ang iya mga ulipon nga tawgon na ang mga tawo nga iya ginpang-imbitar. Pero ang mga inimbitar indi magtambong.
Ginsugo naman niya ang iban pa gid nga mga ulipon. Siling niya, ‘Silingon ninyo ang mga ginpang-imbitar nga naihaw ko na ang mga baka kag ang iban nga mga sapat nga akon ginpatambok kag preparado na ang pagkaon. Gani magkadto na sila diri kag magpamunsyon.’
Pero ang mga tawo nga ginpang-imbitar wala nagsapak. Ang isa nagkadto sa iya uma, kag ang isa sa iya negosyo.
Ang iban ya, gindakop nila ang mga ginsugo sang hari, ginpakahuy-an nila kag ginpatay.
Gani nangakig gid ang hari. Ginsugo niya ang iya mga soldado nga pamatyon ang nagpamatay sang iya mga ulipon kag sunugon ang ila banwa.
Dayon gintawag niya ang iya mga ulipon kag nagsiling, ‘Preparado na ang punsyon sa kasal, ugaling ang mga ginpang-imbitar indi takos.
Gani kadto na lang kamo sa mga karsada nga may madamo nga nagaagi kag imbitara ninyo ang tanan nga inyo masugata.’
Naglakat ang mga ulipon kag nagkadto sa mga karsada, kag ang tanan nga ila nasugata, maayo ukon malain man, ginpang-imbitar nila. Kag napuno sang tawo ang kalan-an sa punsyon.
“Sang ulihi nagsulod ang hari kay gusto niya nga makita ang mga bisita. May nakita siya didto nga isa ka tawo nga wala nakailis sang bayo nga para sa punsyon.
Gani nagsiling ang hari sa iya, ‘Amigo, ngaa nakasulod ka diri nga wala nakasuksok sang bayo nga para sa punsyon?’ Pero ang tawo wala gid nagtingog kay wala siya sang isabat.
Dayon nagsiling ang hari sa iya mga suluguon, ‘Gapusa ninyo ang iya kamot kag tiil kag ihaboy didto sa guwa sa madulom. Didto magahibi siya kag magabagrot ang iya ngipon.
Pagkatapos nagsiling si Jesus, “Madamo ang ginaimbitar nga magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios nga magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios , pero diutay lang ang mga ginapili nga masakop nga masakop .”
Naghalin ang mga Pariseo kag nagplano sila kon paano nila madakop si Jesus paagi sa iya ginapanghambal.
Dayon ginsugo nila ang iban sang ila mga sumulunod kag ang pila ka miyembro sang partido ni Herodes. Nagpamangkot sila kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, nahibaluan namon nga matuod ang imo ginasugid. Ginatudlo mo ang kamatuoran parte sa kabubut-on sang Dios sa mga tawo. Kag wala ka nagapadala-dala sa mga tawo bisan sin-o pa sila.
Ano bala sa imo, husto bala nga kita nga mga Judio kita nga mga Judio magbayad sang buhis sa Emperador sang Roma
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila malain nga tinutuyo, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Mga hipokrito! Ngaa bala ginatilawan ninyo ako nga dakpon paagi sa sini nga pamangkot?
Abi pakitai ninyo ako sang kuwarta nga ginagamit sa pagbayad sang buhis.” Kag ginpakita nila ang kuwarta.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kay sin-o bala ini hitsura kag ngalan?”
Nagsabat sila, “Iya sang Emperador.” Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ti kundi ihatag ninyo sa Emperador ang iya sang Emperador, kag sa Dios ang iya sang Dios.”
Pagkabati nila sang sabat ni Jesus natingala gid sila. Gani ginbayaan na lang nila siya.
Sa amo man nga adlaw may mga Saduceo nga nagpalapit kay Jesus. (Ini nga mga tawo wala nagapati nga may pagkabanhaw.) Nagpamangkot sila,
“Manunudlo, nagsiling si Moises nga kon mapatay ang lalaki nga wala sila bata sang iya asawa, dapat ang iya utod ang magpangasawa sa nabalo para makapabata siya para sa iya utod nga napatay.
Karon, may pito diri anay ka mag-ulutod nga lalaki. Ang kamagulangan nagpangasawa, kag napatay nga wala sing bata. Gani ang balo ginpangasawa sang sunod nga utod.
Ini siya napatay man nga wala sila sang bata. Gani ang balo ginpangasawa naman sang ikatlo kag amo man ang natabo sa iya kag sa tanan nga mag-ulutod hasta sa ikapito.
Sang ulihi ang babayi napatay man.
Karon, kon mag-abot na ang pagkabanhaw, kay sin-o gid siya asawa sang pito ka mag-ulutod ka mag-ulutod , kay sila tanan nagpangasawa sa iya?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sala gid kamo, tungod nga wala kamo nakaintiendi sang Kasulatan kag sang gahom sang Dios.
Sa adlaw sang pagkabanhaw, ang mga tawo indi na mag-asawahay tungod nga pareho na sila sang mga anghel sa langit.
Kon parte sa pagkabanhaw, wala bala ninyo mabasahi sa Kasulatan sa Kasulatan ang ginsiling sang Dios sa inyo nga
‘Ako ang Dios ni Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob’
Pagkabati sadto sang mga tawo natingala gid sila sang iya pagpanudlo.
Pagkabati sang mga Pariseo nga ang mga Saduceo wala gid sing may mahimo kay Jesus, nagtipon sila liwat kag nagpalapit sa iya.
Isa sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan ang nagpamangkot kay Jesus sa pagtilaw
Siling niya, “Manunudlo, ano gid bala ang labing importante nga sugo sa Kasuguan?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “ ‘Higugmaon mo ang Ginoo nga imo Dios sa bug-os mo nga tagipusuon, sa bug-os mo nga kalag, kag sa bug-os mo nga hunahuna.’
Amo ini ang labing importante nga sugo sa tanan.
Kag ang ikaduha nga labing importante pareho man sini, ‘Higugmaon mo ang imo isigkatawo pareho sang paghigugma mo sa imo kaugalingon.’
Ang bilog nga Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises kag ang mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta napasad sa sining duha ka sugo.”
Sa wala pa nagbululag ang mga Pariseo, nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila,
“Ano bala ang inyo pagkilala sa Cristo? Kay sin-o bala siya kaliwat?” Nagsabat sila, “Kay David.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kon kaliwat lang lang siya ni David, ngaa si David nga gintuytuyan sang Espiritu Santo Santo nagtawag sa iya nga Ginoo? Kay nagsiling siya,
hasta mapaidalom ko sa imo ang imo mga kaaway.’
Kon gintawag siya ni David nga iya Ginoo, paano bala nga siya kaliwat lang lang ni David?”
Wala gid sing may nakasabat kay Jesus sa iya pamangkot. Halin sadto wala na gid sing may nangahas nga magpamangkot sa iya.
Dayon naghambal si Jesus sa mga tawo kag sa iya mga sumulunod.
Siling niya, “Ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo amo ang ginsaligan nga magpaathag sang Kasuguan ni Moises.
Gani tumana ninyo ang ila ginatudlo sa inyo, pero indi kamo magsunod sang ila ginahimo tungod kay lain ang ila ginahimo sang sa ila ginahambal.
Nagahimo sila sang mga mabudlay nga mga pagsulundan para sa mga tawo, pero wala sila nagabulig bisan diutay lang para matuman ang ila ginsugo.
Ang tanan nga ginahimo nila pakita-kita lang sa mga tawo. Ginapalapad nila ang mga kahon-kahon nga bulutangan sang mga ginpili nga mga pulong halin sa Kasulatan nga ila ginabugkos sa ila agtang kag sa ila butkon. Kag ginapalaba pa nila ang mga gaway-gaway
Sa mga punsyon kag sa mga simbahan, gusto gid nila nga magpungko sa mga pulungkuan nga para sa mga dungganon.
Sa mga lugar nga madamo sang tawo,
Pero kamo inyo, indi dapat magpatawag nga ‘Manunudlo,’ kay mag-ulutod kamo kag isa lang ang inyo manunudlo.
Indi man kamo magtawag ‘Amay’ sa bisan kay sin-o diri sa duta, kay isa lang gid ang inyo Amay, ang Amay nga ara sa langit.
Kag indi kamo magpatawag, ‘Agalon,’
Kon sin-o sa inyo ang nagaalagad sa iya kaupod amo ang labaw sa tanan.
Ang nagapakataas sang iya kaugalingon paubuson sang Dios sang Dios . Pero ang nagapaubos sang iya kaugalingon pataason sang Dios sang Dios .
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo, kamo nga mga hipokrito! Ginabalabagan ninyo ang mga tawo nga magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios. Kamo mismo indi magpasakop, kag ginapunggan pa ninyo ang mga tawo nga nagatinguha nga magpasakop.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo, kamo nga mga hipokrito! Ang inyo pagtuo sa Dios pakita-kita lang. Ginaubos ninyo kuha ang mga pagkabutang sang mga balo nga babayi, kag ginatabon-tabunan lang ninyo ang inyo ginahimo paagi sa malawig nga mga pagpangamuyo. Gani mas dako ang silot nga inyo pagabatunon!
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo, kamo nga mga hipokrito! Nagakadto kamo sa bisan diin nga lugar kag nagatabok pa sa mga dagat para maconvert ninyo ang bisan isa lang ka tawo sa inyo relihiyon. Pero kon maconvert na ninyo ginahimo ninyo siya nga sobra pa sa inyo kalain kag bagay gid sa impyerno.
Kaluluoy kamo nga mga bulag nga manugtuytoy. Nagatudlo kamo nga, ‘Kon ang tawo magsumpa sa templo, indi kinahanglan nga tumanon niya ang iya ginsumpa. Pero kon magsumpa siya sa bulawan didto sa templo, kinahanglan tumanon gid niya ang iya ginsumpa.’
Buang-buang kag bulag kamo. Diin ang mas importante, ang bulawan ukon ang templo nga nagapabalaan sa bulawan?
Nagatudlo man kamo nga ‘kon ang tawo magsumpa sa halaran, indi kinahanglan nga tumanon niya ang iya ginsumpa. Pero kon magsumpa siya sa halad nga ara sa halaran kinahanglan tumanon gid niya ang iya ginsumpa.’
Mga bulag gid kamo! Diin ang mas importante, ang halad ukon ang halaran nga nagapabalaan sa halad?
Amo ina nga kon ang tawo magsumpa sa halaran, nagasumpa siya sa halaran kag sa tanan nga halad sa halaran.
Kag kon ang tawo magsumpa sa templo, nagasumpa siya sa templo kag sa Dios nga nagapuyo didto.
Kag kon ang tawo magsumpa sa langit, nagasumpa siya sa trono sang Dios, kag sa Dios nga nagapungko didto.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo, kamo nga mga hipokrito! Nagahatag kamo sa Dios sang inyo ikanapulo bisan sa mga panakot sa pagkaon, pero ginabaliwala ninyo ang mas importante nga mga sugo parte sa matarong nga pagkabuhi, pagkamaluluy-on, kag pagkamasaligan. Maghatag kamo sang inyo ikanapulo pero indi ninyo pag-ibaliwala ang mas importante nga mga sugo.
Bulag gid kamo nga mga manunudlo. Nagasala kamo sang sapat-sapat sa inyo ilimnon sa inyo ilimnon , pero ginatulon ninyo ang camel.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo, kamo nga mga hipokrito! Kay ginahugasan ninyo ang sa guwa lang lang nga parte sang tasa kag pinggan bilang ritual bilang ritual , pero ang sa sulod ninyo puno sang kadalok kag kahisa.
Bulag kamo nga mga Pariseo! Tinlui ninyo anay ang sa sulod nga parte sang tasa kag pinggan, kag ang sa guwa mangin matinlo man.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo, kamo nga mga hipokrito! Pareho kamo sa mga lulubngan nga ginpintahan sang puti kag matahom tulukon sa guwa, pero sa sulod puro lang tul-an sang patay kag iban pa nga mahigko nga mga butang.
Pareho gid kamo sina kay kon tulukon kamo sang mga tawo daw husto man ang inyo ginahimo pero ang matuod, puro pakita-kita lang, kay sa sulod sang inyo tagipusuon malain gid kamo.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga Pariseo, kamo nga mga hipokrito! Ginapakay-o ninyo sing maayo kag ginapatahom ang lulubngan sang mga matarong kag mga propeta,
kag nagasiling kamo, ‘Kon buhi kami sang tiyempo sang amon mga katigulangan, wala kami nagpartisipar sa ila nga pagpamatay sang mga propeta.’
Gani, ginaako ninyo nga mga kaliwat kamo sang mga tawo nga nagpamatay sang mga propeta.
Sige, tapusa ninyo ang ginsuguran sang inyo mga katigulangan!
Pareho kamo sa mga man-og, mga kaliwat kamo sang mga dalitan nga mga man-og. Indi gid kamo makapalagyo sa silot sa impyerno.
Gani pamati kamo! Magapadala ako sa inyo sang mga propeta kag maalam nga mga tawo kag mga manunudlo. Ang iban sa ila pamatyon ninyo. Ipalansang ninyo sila sa krus. Kag ang iban hanuton ninyo sa inyo mga simbahan. Kag kon bisan diin nga lugar sila magpalagyo lagson ninyo.
Amo ina nga silutan kamo sa inyo pagpamatay sa tanan nga tawo nga matarong halin kay Abel hasta kay Zacarias nga anak ni Barakia, nga inyo ginpatay sa tunga sang templo kag sang halaran.
Sa pagkamatuod, kamo nga mga tawo sa kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon amo ang manabat sa sining tanan nga sala.
“Kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem, ngaa ginabato ninyo kag ginapamatay ang mga propeta nga ginpadala sang Dios sang Dios sa inyo? Permi ko ginahandom nga tipunon kamo kag atipanon kag atipanon pareho sang munga nga nagatipon sang iya mga piso sa idalom sang iya mga pakpak, pero indi kamo gusto sini!
Karon, bahala kamo sa inyo kaugalingon.
Kay indi na gid ninyo ako makita hasta sa pag-abot sang adlaw nga magasiling kamo, ‘Ginapakamaayo sang Ginoo ang iya pinadala.
Nagguwa si Jesus sa templo kag samtang nagalakat siya nagpalapit sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod kag gintudlo nila sa iya ang templo.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Tan-awa ninyo ini tanan. Sa pagkamatuod, magakalaguba ini kag wala gid sing may mabilin nga mga bato nga nagasalampaw.”
Sang nagapungko si Jesus didto sa Bukid sang mga Olibo, nagpalapit sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod nga silahanon lang. Nagsiling sila, “Sugiri kami kon san-o matabo ang mga butang nga imo ginsiling. Kag ano bala ang tanda sang imo pagbalik diri kag sang katapusan sang sini nga panahon?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Mag-andam kamo nga wala sing may makapatalang sa inyo.
Kay madamo ang magaabot kag magasiling nga sila amo ako, ang Cristo, kag madamo ang ila mapatalang.
Makabati kamo sang mga gira nga malapit sa inyo kag makabalita kamo nga didto sa malayo nagagira man. Pero indi kamo magkahadlok. Kinahanglan gid nga matabo ini, pero indi pa ini ang katapusan.
Magailinaway ang mga nasyon kag magailinaway ang mga ginharian. May magaabot nga mga gutom kag mga linog sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar.
Ini tanan umpisa pa lang sang mga kabudlayan nga magaabot.
“Sa sina nga mga inadlaw dumtan kamo sang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa tanan nga nasyon tungod sang inyo pagsunod sa akon. Dakpon nila kamo kag itugyan sa mga tawo nga magasilot sa inyo, kag ang iban sa inyo pagapatyon.
Kag kon mag-abot na ang mga paghingabot, madamo ang magatalikod sa ila pagtuo. Dumtan nila kag traiduran ang ila kapareho nga mga tumuluo.
Magaguwa ang indi matuod nga mga propeta kag madamo ang ila patalangon.
Kag tungod sang pagdugang sang kalautan, ang gugma sang madamo nga tumuluo magalas-ay.
Pero ang nagapadayon sa pagsunod sa akon sa pagsunod sa akon hasta sa katapusan amo ang maluwas.
Kag sa wala pa magaabot ang katapusan, iwali sa bilog nga kalibutan ang Maayong Balita parte sa paghari sang Dios para mahibaluan ini sang tanan nga katawhan.”
Nagpropesiya si Propeta Daniel parte sa makangilil-ad nga butang nga mangin kabangdanan nga pabay-an ang templo ang templo .
kamo nga ara sa Judea dapat magpalagyo sa kabukiran.
Ang matabuan nga matabuan nga ara sa guwa sang iya balay indi na magsulod pa sa pagkuha sang iya mga pagkabutang.
Ang matabuan nga matabuan nga ara sa iya uma indi na magpuli pa sa pagkuha sang iya bayo.
Makaluluoy ang mga nagabulusong kag ang mga nagapatiti sa sina nga mga inadlaw tungod nga mabudlayan sila sa pagpalagyo tungod nga mabudlayan sila sa pagpalagyo .
Magpangamuyo kamo nga ang inyo pagpalagyo indi matabo sa tigtulugnaw ukon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Kay sa sina nga tiyempo magaabot ang puwerte nga pag-antos nga wala pa gid matabo halin sang pagtuga sang kalibutan kag wala sing may matabo pa nga pareho sina hasta san-o.
Kon ina nga mga inadlaw wala ginpalip-ot sang Ginoo sang Ginoo , wala gid sing may mabilin nga tawo. Pero tungod sang iya kaluoy sa iya iya kaluoy sa iya mga pinili, palip-uton niya niya ina nga mga inadlaw.
“Gani kon may magsiling sa inyo, ‘Ari na ang Cristo!’ ukon ‘Didto siya!’ indi kamo magpati.
Kay magaguwa ang indi matuod nga mga Cristo kag ang indi matuod nga mga propeta. Magahimo sila sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang sa katuyuan nga patalangon, kon mahimo, bisan pa ang mga pinili sang Dios sang Dios .
Gani tandai gid ninyo ini! Ginasugid ko na sa inyo nga daan ini nga mga butang sa wala pa matabo.
“Gani kon may mga tawo nga magsiling sa inyo, ‘Si Cristo ato sa kamingawan,’ indi kamo magkadto didto. Kag kon may magsiling, ‘Ara siya sa sulod,’
Kay kon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magbalik na, makakita ang tanan tungod kay makakita ang tanan tungod kay mangin pareho ini sa kilat nga sa diin ang iya kirab makita halin sa east hasta sa west.
“ May hulubaton nga nagasiling, May hulubaton nga nagasiling, ‘Kon diin may patay nga lawas, didto man nagatilipon ang mga uwak.’
pagapatalangon sa ila kinaandan nga alagyan.’
“Dayon makita sa langit ang tanda sang akon pagbalik, kag magahibi ang tanan nga katawhan sa kalibutan. Kag makita nila ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo sa mga panganod nga magaabot nga may gahom kag puwerte nga kadungganan.
Sa mabaskog nga tunog sang trumpeta suguon ko ang akon mga anghel sa pagtipon sang akon mga pinili halin sa tanan nga lugar sang kalibutan.
“Magtuon kamo sang leksyon sa kahoy nga higera. Kon ang iya mga sanga nagapanalingsing na, mahibaluan ninyo nga madali na lang ang tig-ilinit.
Sa amo man nga bagay, kon makita ninyo nga nagakalatabo na ini tanan nga butang nga akon ginasugid sa inyo nga akon ginasugid sa inyo , mahibaluan ninyo nga madali na lang ako mag-abot.
Sa pagkamatuod, magakalatuman ini tanan nga butang sa wala pa mapatay ang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon.
Madula ang langit kag ang duta, pero ang akon mga pulong indi gid madula kundi matuman gid ini kundi matuman gid ini .
“Kon parte sa adlaw ukon oras sang akon pag-abot, wala gid sing may nakahibalo bisan ang mga anghel sa langit ukon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Dios sang Dios , kundi ang Amay gid lang.
Kon ano ang ginhimo sang mga tawo sang tiyempo ni Noe amo man ang himuon sang mga tawo kon mag-abot na ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo.
Kay sa wala pa mag-abot ang grabe gid nga baha ang mga tawo wala na sing iban pa nga ginapinsar kundi magpangalipay wala na sing iban pa nga ginapinsar kundi magpangalipay . Sige lang ang ila kaon, inom, kag inasawahay hasta sa adlaw nga nagsulod si Noe sa barko.
Wala gid sila kahibalo kon ano ang matabo hasta nag-abot ang baha kag nagkalalumos sila tanan. Pareho man sini ang matabo kon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo mag-abot na.
Sa sina nga mga inadlaw, kon matabuan nga may duha ka lalaki nga nagaobra sa talamnan, ang isa kuhaon kag ang isa ibilin.
Kag kon may duha ka babayi nga nagagaling; ang isa kuhaon kag ang isa ibilin.
Gani magbantay kamo, kay wala kamo kahibalo kon san-o magaabot ang inyo Ginoo.
Tandai ninyo ini: kon nahibaluan sang tagbalay kon ano nga oras sa gab-i maabot ang makawat, sigurado nga magbantay siya para indi makasulod ang makawat sa iya balay.
Gani magbantay gid kamo, kay sa oras nga wala ninyo ginapaabot, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magaabot.
“Ang masaligan kag maalam nga ulipon amo ang ginapili sang amo nga magdumala sa iya kaupod nga mga ulipon. Siya ang nagahatag sa ila sang ila pagkaon sa husto nga oras.
Bulahan ato nga ulipon nga sa pagbalik sang iya amo maabtan siya nga nagahimo sang iya buluhaton.
Sa pagkamatuod, padumalahon siya sa tanan nga pagkabutang sang iya amo.
Pero kaluluoy ang indi maayo nga ulipon nga sa paglakat sang iya amo magahunahuna siya nga madugay pa siya magbalik,
gani magasugod siya sa pagpamintas sa iya kaupod nga mga ulipon kag magaupod kaon kag inom sa mga palahubog.
Magaabot ang iya amo sa oras nga wala gid niya ginahunahuna
kag grabe ang silot nga iya agumon.
“Pag-abot sang sina nga adlaw,
Ang lima sa ila maalamon kag ang lima indi maalamon.
Ang mga indi maalamon nagdala sang ila mga suga, ugaling wala sila nagdala sang reserba nga lana para kon maubos ang lana sa ila suga may inugtughong pa sila.
Ang mga maalamon nagdala man sang ila mga suga kag nagdala pa gid sang reserba nga lana sa suludlan.
Kag tungod nga madugay mag-abot ang nobyo gintuyo sila kag natulugan sila tanan.
“Sang tungang gab-i na may nagsinggit, ‘Ari na ang nobyo! Dali kamo, sugataa ninyo siya.’
Ang napulo ka dalaga nagbugtaw kag ginpreparar nila ang ila mga suga.
Dayon ang mga dalaga nga dalaga nga indi maalamon nagsiling sa mga maalamon, ‘Hatagi kami sang inyo lana kay nagapiraw na ang amon suga.’
Nagsabat sila, ‘Indi mahimo, kay kon hatagan namon kamo pareho kita nga kulangon. Magkadto na lang kamo sa mga tindahan kag magbakal sang para sa inyo.’
Paghalin nila para magbakal sang lana amo man ang pag-abot sang nobyo. Ang lima nga nakapreparar nag-upod sa iya sa punsyon. Pagsulod nila, ginsiradhan dayon ang puwertahan.
“Dugay-dugay nag-abot man ang lima ka dalaga nga nagbakal sang lana, kag nagpanawag, ‘Sir, sir, pasudla kami.’
Pero nagsabat ang nobyo, ‘Sa pagkamatuod, wala ako makakilala sa inyo.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Amo ina nga kinahanglan nga magbantay kamo kay wala kamo kahibalo kon san-o nga adlaw ukon oras ako maabot.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Ang paghari sang Dios Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Ang paghari sang Dios mapaanggid sa sini nga estorya: May sini nga estorya: May isa ka tawo nga manuglakat sa iban nga lugar. Gani gintawag niya ang iya mga ulipon kag gintugyan sa ila ang iya kuwarta para inegosyo nila para inegosyo nila .
Ang kada isa sa ila ginhatagan niya suno sa ila masarangan sa pagnegosyo. Ang isa ginhatagan niya sing 5,000, ang isa 2,000, kag ang isa pa gid ginhatagan niya sing 1,000. Dayon naglakat siya.
Ang ulipon nga nakabaton sang 5,000 nagnegosyo dayon kag nakaganansya siya sing 5,000.
Amo man ang ginhimo sang nakabaton sang 2,000, kag nakaganansya siya sing 2,000.
Pero ang nakabaton sang 1,000 naglakat kag nagkutkot sa duta, kag ginlubong niya ang kuwarta nga ginhatag sang iya amo para inegosyo para inegosyo .
“Sang ulihi nagbalik ang ila amo kag gintawag niya ang iya mga ulipon para magsuma sila sang iya kuwarta nga ginpanegosyo sa ila.
Ang ulipon nga nakabaton sing 5,000 nagpalapit kag ginhatag niya sa iya amo ang 5,000 nga kapital pati ang 5,000 nga iya ganansya. Nagsiling siya, ‘Indi bala ginhatagan mo ako sang 5,000? Ti ari ang sa akon. Nakaganansya pa gid ako sing 5,000.’
Kag nagsiling ang iya amo, ‘Maayo ka nga ulipon! Masaligan ka! Kag tungod nga masaligan ka kag maayo magpatikang sang diutay nga kantidad, karon itugyan ko sa imo ang mas dako pa gid nga kantidad. Dali, magkalipay ka upod sa akon!’
Ang ulipon nga nakabaton sing 2,000 nagpalapit man. Nagsiling siya sa iya amo, ‘Indi bala nga ginhatagan mo ako sing 2,000? Ari, nakaganansya man ako sing 2,000!’
Nagsiling ang iya amo, ‘Maayo ka nga ulipon! Masaligan ka! Kag tungod nga masaligan ka kag maayo magpatikang sang diutay nga kantidad, karon itugyan ko sa imo ang mas dako pa gid nga kantidad. Dali, magkalipay ka upod sa akon!’
Nagpalapit man ang ulipon nga nakabaton sing 1,000. Nagsiling siya, ‘Sir, nahibaluan ko nga masyado ka kaestrikto kag wala kaluoy nga tawo, kay ginakuha mo ang patubas bisan indi ikaw ang nagtanom, kag ginakuha mo ang ganansya sang pinangabudlayan sang iban.
Gani ginhadlukan ako. Amo ina nga ginlubong ko na lang sa duta ang imo kuwarta. Ari ang imo kuwarta.’
Nagsiling ang iya amo, ‘Malain ka kag matamad nga ulipon! Nahibaluan mo gali nga ginakuha ko ang patubas bisan indi ako ang nagtanom, kag ginakuha ko ang ganansya sang pinangabudlayan sang iban.
Ti ngaa wala mo pag-ibutang sa bangko ang akon kuwarta para sa akon pagbalik makuha ko ang akon kuwarta nga may saka pa?’
Nagsiling siya dayon sa iban pa nga mga ulipon, Nagsiling siya dayon sa iban pa nga mga ulipon, ‘Sige kuhaa ninyo ang iya kuwarta kag ihatag sa ulipon nga may kantidad nga 10,000.
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga may ara hatagan pa. Pero ang wala iya, bisan ang diutay nga ara sa iya kuhaon pa.
Ang ulipon nga wala sing pulos ihaboy ninyo sa kadudulman didto sa guwa. Didto magahibi siya kag magabagrot ang iya mga ngipon.
“Kon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo mag-abot na bilang Hari, nga ginaupdan sang tanan nga anghel, magapungko ako dayon sa akon trono nga harianon.
Ang tanan nga katawhan sa kalibutan pagatipunon para mag-atubang sa akon. Dayon tungaon ko sila sa duha ka grupo pareho sang pagseparar sang manugbantay sang sapat sa mga karnero kag mga kanding.
Ang mga karnero, nga amo ang mga matarong, nga amo ang mga matarong, ibutang ko sa akon tuo, kag ang mga kanding, nga amo ang mga malain, nga amo ang mga malain, ibutang ko sa akon wala.
Kag bilang Hari, magasiling ako sa mga tawo sa akon tuo, ‘Kamo nga ginpakamaayo sang Dios nga akon Amay, batuna ninyo ang inyo parte sa paghari sang Dios sang Dios , nga ginpreparar para sa inyo halin pa sang pagtuga sang kalibutan.
Kay sang gin-gutom ako ginpakaon ninyo ako, kag sang gin-uhaw ako ginpainom ninyo ako. Sang nangin pangayaw ako ginpadayon ninyo ako sa inyo balay;
sang wala ako sang bayo ginpabayuan ninyo ako; sang nagmasakit ako gin-atipan ninyo ako; kag sang ginpriso ako ginbisitahan ninyo ako.’
Dayon magasabat ang mga matarong sa akon tuo, ‘Ginoo, san-o ka bala namon nakita nga gutom kag ginpakaon namon, ukon nauhaw kag ginpainom namon?
San-o ka bala namon nakita nga nangin pangayaw kag ginpadayon ka namon sa amon balay, ukon wala sing bayo kag ginpabayuan namon?
San-o ka bala namon nakita nga nagmasakit ukon napriso kag ginbisitahan namon?’
Ako nga Hari magasabat, ‘Sa pagkamatuod, kon ginhimo ninyo ini sa isa sang akon labing kubos nga mga utod, pareho man nga ginhimo ninyo ini sa akon.’
“Dayon magasiling ako sa mga tawo sa akon wala, ‘Halin kamo diri sa akon, kamo nga ginpakamalaot sang Dios! Didto kamo sa kalayo nga nagadabadaba sa wala sing katapusan nga ginpreparar para sa yawa kag sa iya mga anghel.
Kay gin-gutom ako pero wala ninyo ako ginpakaon, gin-uhaw ako pero wala ninyo ako ginpainom.
Sang pangayaw ako wala ninyo ako pagpadayuna sa inyo balay; sang wala ako bayo wala ninyo ako pagpabayui; pagmasakit ko kag sang pagkapriso ko wala ninyo ako pag-atipana.’
Dayon magasabat sila, ‘Ginoo, san-o ka namon nakita nga gin-gutom ukon gin-uhaw, ukon wala dalayunan, ukon wala bayo, ukon nagmasakit, ukon napriso nga wala kami nagbulig sa imo?’
Kag ako nga Hari magasabat, ‘Sa pagkamatuod, kon wala ninyo pagbuligi ang isa sang akon labing kubos nga mga utod, pareho lang ina nga wala ninyo ako pagbuligi.’
Kag ini sila pahalinon kag silutan sa wala sing katapusan. Pero ang mga matarong hatagan sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.”
Pagkatapos sang pagpanudlo ni Jesus sang sini nga mga butang, nagsiling siya sa iya mga sumulunod,
“Nahibaluan ninyo nga duha na lang ka adlaw antes mag-abot ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel, kag ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo itugyan sa mga tawo para ilansang sa krus.”
Kag sa amo man nga oras didto sa palasyo ni Caifas nga pangulo nga pari, nagtilipon ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Gin-meetingan nila kon paano nila madakop si Jesus nga indi mahibaluan sang mga tawo, kag pagkatapos patyon dayon.
Nagsiling sila, “Indi ta lang pagtabuon sa piesta kay basi kon magkinagamo ang mga tawo.”
Sang didto si Jesus sa Betania, sa balay ni Simon nga sadto anay sadto anay may delikado nga balatian sa panit,
may nagpalapit sa iya nga isa ka babayi. May dala siya nga tibod-tibod nga may sulod nga malahalon gid nga pahamot. Samtang nagakaon si Jesus ginbubuan niya sang pahamot ang ulo ni Jesus.
Pagkakita sadto sang iya mga sumulunod nangakig sila kag nagsiling, “Ngaa ginausikan lang niya ina?
Sarang kuntani mabaligya ina sa dako nga kantidad kag ang iya bili ihatag sa mga imol!”
Nahibaluan ni Jesus kon ano ang ila ginhambal, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ngaa ginahilabtan ninyo siya? Maayo ining iya ginhimo sa akon.
Ang mga imol permi ninyo makaupod, pero ako indi ninyo permi makaupod.
Ginbubuan niya sang pahamot ang akon lawas bilang pagpreparar sa akon lubong.
Sa pagkamatuod, bisan diin iwali ang Maayong Balita sa bilog nga kalibutan, ang iya ginhimo sa akon isugid man bilang handumanan sa iya.”
Karon, ang isa sang dose ka apostoles ka apostoles nga ginatawag Judas Iscariote
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Pila ang inyo ibayad sa akon kon itugyan ko sa inyo si Jesus?” Ginhatagan nila dayon si Judas sing 30 ka bilog nga pilak.
Kag halin sadto nagpangita siya sing kahigayunan kon paano niya matugyan si Jesus sa ila.
Sang nahauna nga adlaw sang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok, nagpalapit kay Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagpamangkot, “Sa diin ang imo gusto nga magpreparar kami sang panyapon sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Kadto kamo sa siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem , didto sa tawo nga akon ginsugid sa inyo, kag silingon ninyo siya, ‘Nagsiling ang Manunudlo nga nag-abot na ang oras nga pagapatyon siya, kag gusto niya nga magselebrar sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel diri sa imo balay kaupod sang iya mga sumulunod.’ ”
Gintuman sang mga sumulunod ang ginsugo ni Jesus, kag ginpreparar nila didto ang panyapon para sa piesta.
Sang sirom na, nagpanyapon si Jesus kag ang dose ka apostoles ka apostoles .
Samtang nagakaon sila, nagsiling si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, ang isa sa inyo magatraidor sa akon.”
Pagkabati sang mga apostoles, Pagkabati sang mga apostoles, nagkasubo gid sila kag nagbulos-bulos sila pamangkot sa iya, “Ginoo, indi ako, di bala?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Ang isa nga nagsawsaw sang tinapay sang tinapay sa yahong upod sa akon amo ang magatraidor sa akon.
Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo pagapatyon suno sa ginasiling sang Kasulatan, pero kaluluoy ang tawo nga magatraidor sa akon. Maayo pa para sa iya nga wala siya natawo.”
Dayon nagsiling si Judas nga traidor, “Manunudlo, indi ako, di bala?” Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ikaw ang nagsiling sina.”
Samtang nagakaon sila, nagkuha si Jesus sang tinapay. Ginpasalamatan niya ini sa Dios sa Dios kag ginpamihak-pihak. Dayon ginhatag niya sa iya mga sumulunod kag nagsiling, “Kuha kamo kag magkaon, amo ini ang akon lawas.”
Pagkatapos nagkuha siya sang ilimnon, nagpasalamat sa Dios, kag ginhatag sa ila nga nagasiling, “Tanan kamo mag-inom sini,
tungod nga amo ini ang akon dugo nga iula para mapatawad ang mga sala sang madamo nga tawo. Ini nagapamatuod nga may bag-o na nga kasugtanan ang Dios sa mga tawo.
Sugiran ko kamo, indi na ako mag-inom liwat sang ilimnon nga halin sa ubas hasta sa adlaw nga magainom ako sang bag-o nga klase sang ilimnon kaupod ninyo sa paghari sang akon Amay.”
Dayon nagkanta sila sang mga pagdayaw sa Dios, kag pagkatapos nagkadto sila sa Bukid sang mga Olibo.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Karon sa gab-i tanan kamo magabiya sa akon, kay nagsiling ang Dios sa Dios sa Kasulatan, ‘Patyon ko ang manugbantay sang mga karnero, kag magaalaplaag ang mga karnero.’
Pero sa tapos nga mabanhaw ako, mauna ako sa inyo didto sa Galilea.”
Nagsiling si Pedro kay Jesus, “Bisan sila tanan magbiya sa imo, ako indi gid!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Sa pagkamatuod, sa sini nga gab-i, sa wala pa makapamalo ang manok, ipanginwala mo ako sing tatlo ka beses.”
Nagsabat si Pedro, “Indi ko gid ikaw ipanginwala bisan patyon pa nila ako upod sa imo!” Amo man ang ginsiling sang tanan nga sumulunod.
Dayon nagkadto sila sa lugar nga ginatawag Getsemane. Pag-abot nila didto, nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Magpungko kamo diri samtang nagapangamuyo ako didto sa ulo-unhan.”
Gindala niya si Pedro kag ang duha ka anak ni Zebedee. Natublag kag nagpangalisod gid si Jesus.
Kag nagsiling siya sa ila, “Daw sa mapatay ako sa kalisod. Pabilin kamo diri kag magpulaw upod sa akon.”
Dayon nagkadto pa gid siya sa ulo-unhan; nagluhod siya kag nagpangamuyo. Siling niya, “Amay, kon mahimo ilikaw ang pag-antos nga nagaabot sa akon. Pero indi ang akon luyag ang dapat matuman kundi ang imo.”
Pagbalik niya sa iya tatlo ka tatlo ka sumulunod naabtan niya sila nga nagakatulog. Nagsiling siya kay Pedro, “Indi gid bala kamo makapulaw upod sa akon bisan isa lang ka oras?
Magpulaw kamo kag magpangamuyo nga indi kamo madaog sang temtasyon. Luyag sang inyo inyo espiritu nga magsunod nga magsunod ugaling maluya ang inyo inyo lawas.”
Naglakat liwat si Jesus sa ulo-unhan kag nagpangamuyo, “Amay, kon kinahanglan nga atubangon ko ang pag-antos nga ini, ang imo kabubut-on amo ang matuman.”
Nagbalik siya liwat sa iya mga sumulunod kag naabtan naman niya sila nga nagakatulog, kay natuyo gid sila.
Sa liwat ginbayaan sila ni Jesus, naglakat siya sa ulo-unhan kag nagpangamuyo. Ikatlo na niya ini nga pagpangamuyo kag amo man gihapon nga pangamuyo.
Dayon nagbalik siya sa iya mga sumulunod kag nagsiling, “Nagakatulog pa bala kamo gihapon kag nagapahuway-huway? Pamati! Amo na ini ang tion nga ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo itugyan sa mga makasasala!
Dali na! Ari na ang tawo nga magatraidor sa akon!”
Samtang nagahambal pa si Jesus, nag-abot si Judas nga isa sa dose ka apostoles ka apostoles . Kaupod niya ang madamo nga tawo nga may dala nga mga espada kag mga inuglampos. Ginsugo sila sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Nakasiling na nga daan ang traidor nga si Judas nga si Judas sa mga manugdakop kon ano ang iya senyales: “Ang tawo nga akon halukan amo ang inyo ginapangita. Dakpa ninyo siya.”
Gani pag-abot ni Judas, nagderetso siya kay Jesus kag nagsiling, “Manunudlo, maayong gab-i.” Kag ginhalukan niya siya.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Amigo, sige, himua na kon ano ang imo ginkadto diri.” Ginpalapitan nila si Jesus kag gindakop.
Ang isa sang mga kaupod ni Jesus naggabot sang iya espada kag ginlabo niya ang ulipon sang pangulo nga pari kag nautod ang dulunggan sini.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ibalik sa tagob ang imo espada! Ang nagagamit sang espada sa espada man mapatay.
Wala ka siguro kahibalo nga sarang ako makapangayo sing bulig sa akon Amay kag sa gilayon padal-an niya ako sing dose ka batalyon nga mga anghel?
Ugaling kon himuon ko ina, paano matuman ang Kasulatan nga amo ini ang kinahanglan matabo?”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Ano, tulisan bala ako nga kinahanglan gid nga magdala pa kamo sang mga espada kag mga inuglampos sa pagdakop sa akon? Adlaw-adlaw didto ako sa templo nga nagatudlo. Ti ngaa wala ninyo ako pagdakpa?
Pero ini tanan nagakalatabo para matuman ang ginsulat sang mga propeta sa Kasulatan.” Dayon ginbayaan siya sang iya mga sumulunod kag nagpalagyo sila tanan.
Dayon gindala si Jesus sang mga nagdakop sa iya sa balay ni balay ni Caifas nga pangulo nga pari. Nagtilipon didto ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Si Pedro nagsunod man, pero malayo-layo ang iya antad kay Jesus. Nagsulod siya sa ugsaran sang balay sang pangulo nga pari kag nagpungko upod sa mga guwardya para makita niya kon ano ang matabo kay Jesus.
Ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang tanan nga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio nagpangita sang mga butig nga ebidensya kontra kay Jesus para ipapatay nila siya.
Pero bisan madamo ang nagpalapit kag nagsugid sang butig kontra kay Jesus, wala sila sing may nakita nga ebidensya para ipapatay siya nga ebidensya para ipapatay siya . Sang ulihi may duha ka tawo nga nagpalapit
kag nagsiling sila, “Nabatian namon ini nga tawo nga nagsiling, ‘Sarang ko maguba ang ini nga templo sang Dios kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw patindugon ko liwat!’ ”
Gani nagtindog ang pangulo nga pari kag nagpamangkot kay Jesus, “Wala ka bala sing isabat sa sini nga mga akusasyon kontra sa imo?”
Wala gid nagsabat si Jesus. Nagsiling liwat ang pangulo nga pari, “Sugiri kami sa atubangan sang buhi nga Dios. Ikaw bala ang Cristo nga Anak sang Dios?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ginasiling mo. Kag sugiran ko kamo, halin subong makita ninyo ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo nga nagapungko sa tuo sang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios , kag makita man ninyo ako sa mga panganod sa kalangitan nga nagabalik diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan .”
Pagkabati sadto sang pangulo nga pari gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kaakig sa kaakig kag nagsiling, “Gin-insulto niya ang Dios ang Dios ! Indi na kinahanglan sang mga testigo! Nabatian ninyo ang pag-insulto niya sa Dios sa Dios .
Ano bala sa inyo?” Nagsabat sila, “Dapat siya patyon.”
Dayon ginduplaan nila siya sa guya kag ginsumbag, kag ang mga nagtampa sa iya
nagsiling, “Kon ikaw ang Cristo, pakta abi kon sin-o ang nagtampa sa imo.”
Si Pedro didto pa sa ugsaran nga nagapungko. May nagpalapit sa iya nga babayi nga suluguon sang pangulo nga pari kag nagsiling, “Indi bala kaupod ka man ni Jesus nga taga-Galilea?”
Pero ginpanginwala ni Pedro ini sa tanan nga tawo didto sa guwa. Siling niya, “Wala ako kahibalo kon ano ang imo ginahambal.”
Dayon nagkadto siya sa may puwertahan. Nakita siya sang isa naman ka suluguon nga babayi, kag nagsiling sa mga tawo didto, “Ini nga tawo kaupod man ni Jesus nga taga-Nazaret.”
Sa liwat ginpanginwala ini ni Pedro kag nagsiling, “Ginasumpa ko, wala ako kakilala sa tawo nga inyo ginasiling!”
Sa wala madugay nagpalapit kay Pedro ang mga tawo didto kag nagsiling, “Kaupod ka gid ni Jesus, kay ang imo panghambal pareho sa iya.”
Pero nagpanumpa gid si Pedro nga nagasiling, “Bisan mapatay pa ako, wala gid ako kakilala sa tawo nga inyo ginasiling.” Dayon nagpamalo ang manok,
kag nadumduman ni Pedro ang ginsiling ni Jesus sa iya, “Sa wala pa makapamalo ang manok, ipanginwala mo ako sing tatlo ka beses.” Dayon nagguwa siya kag naghilibion.
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nag-meeting ang tanan nga manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio kon ano ang ila himuon para ipapatay si Jesus.
Gin-gapos nila siya kag gindala didto kay Gobernador Pilato
Pagkahibalo ni Judas nga traidor nga si Jesus ginsentensyahan na nga patyon, ginbasol niya ang iya kaugalingon. Nagkadto siya sa manugdumala nga mga pari kag manugdumala nga mga Judio para iuli ang 30 ka bilog nga pilak.
Nagsiling siya, “Nakasala ako tungod nga gintugyan ko sa inyo ang tawo nga wala sing sala.” Nagsabat sila, “Ano ang amon labot? Imo ina salabton!”
Ginpilak ni Judas ang kuwarta didto sa sulod sang templo. Dayon nagguwa siya kag ginbitay niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Ginpamulot sang manugdumala nga mga pari ang kuwarta kag nagsiling, “Bawal ini ibutang sa bulutangan sang kuwarta sa templo tungod kay amo ini ang kuwarta nga ginbayad para ipapatay ang isa ka tawo.”
Nagsugtanay sila nga ang kuwarta ibakal sang duta sang manughimo sang kolon para himuon nila nga lulubngan para sa mga indi Judio.
Amo ina nga hasta subong ang duta nga ato ginatawag nga “Duta sang Dugo.”
Sa sadto nga hitabo natuman ang ginpropesiya ni Propeta Jeremias nga nagasiling, “Ginkuha nila ang 30 ka bilog nga pilak nga ginkasugtan sang mga kaliwat ni Israel nga ibakal sa iya,
kag ang kuwarta ginbakal nila sang duta sang manughimo sang kolon, suno sa ginsugo sa akon sang Ginoo.”
Karon, sang didto na si Jesus kay Pilato ginpamangkot siya ni Pilato, “Ikaw bala ang hari sang mga Judio?” Nagsabat si Jesus, “Ginasiling mo.”
Pero wala siya magsabat sa mga akusasyon sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Gani nagsiling si Pilato sa iya, “Ngaa bala wala ka nagasabat sa ila mga akusasyon kontra sa imo?”
Pero wala gid nagsabat si Jesus bisan isa ka tinaga, gani natingala gid ang gobernador.
Kinabatasan sang gobernador nga kada Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel nagahilway siya sang isa ka priso nga ginapangayo sang mga tawo.
Sang sadto nga tion, may isa ka bantog nga priso nga ang iya ngalan si Barabas.
Sang nagatilipon ang mga tawo, nagpamangkot si Pilato, “Sin-o ang inyo gusto nga akon buy-an, si Barabas ukon si Jesus nga ginatawag nga Cristo?”
Nahibaluan ni Pilato nga nahisa ang mga manugdumala kay Jesus, amo gani nga gin-akusar nila si Jesus sa iya.
Samtang nagapungko si Pilato sa hukmanan, ginpasuguan siya sang iya asawa nga nagasiling, “Indi mo paghilabtan inang matarong nga tawo, kay kagab-i indi gid ako mapahamtang tungod sa akon damgo parte sa iya.”
Pero ang ginhimo sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, ginsutsot nila ang mga tawo nga si Barabas ang ila pangayuon nga buy-an kag ipapatay si Jesus.
Gani nagpamangkot liwat ang gobernador, “Sin-o sa duha nga ini ang inyo gusto nga akon buy-an?” Nagsabat sila, “Si Barabas!”
Nagsiling si Pilato, “Ti ano karon ang akon himuon kay Jesus nga ginatawag Cristo?” Nagsabat sila tanan, “Ilansang siya sa krus!”
Nagpamangkot si Pilato sa ila, “Ngaa, ano bala nga sala ang iya nahimo?” Pero gintuduhan pa gid gani nila singgit, “Ilansang siya sa krus!”
Sang pagkakita ni Pilato nga wala na siya sing may mahimo kay basi magkinagamo ang mga tawo, nagpakuha siya sang tubig kag nagpanghinaw sa atubangan sang mga tawo. Nagsiling siya, “Wala ako sang labot sa kamatayon sang sini nga tawo. Inyo ina salabton! Limpyo ang akon kamot.”
Nagsabat ang mga tawo, “Kami kag ang amon mga anak amo ang manabat sang iya kamatayon!”
Dayon ginbuy-an ni Pilato si Barabas. Pero si Jesus ginpahanot niya kag gintugyan sa mga soldado sa mga soldado para ilansang sa krus.
Dayon gindala sang mga soldado si Jesus sa sulod sang palasyo sang gobernador, kag ginpatipon didto sa iya ang bilog nga batalyon sang mga soldado.
Gin-ubahan nila siya kag ginsukluban sang kapa nga pula.
Pagkatapos naghimo sila sang korokorona nga tunukon kag ginsuksok ini sa ulo ni Jesus. Ginpakaptan nila sa iya tuo nga kamot ang bulobaston nga pareho sang iya sang hari nga pareho sang iya sang hari . Dayon nagluhod-luhod sila sa iya kag nagyaguta nga nagasiling, “Mabuhay ang Hari sang mga Judio!”
Ginduplaan nila siya kag ginkuha ang ginakaptan niya nga bulobaston kag ginlampos sa iya ulo.
Sa tapos sang ila pagyaguta, gin-uba nila ang kapa kag ginsuksukan nila siya liwat sang iya bayo. Dayon gindala nila siya sa guwa sang siyudad sang siyudad para ilansang sa krus.
Sang nagapaguwa pa lang sila sa siyudad, sa siyudad, may nasugata sila nga tawo nga si Simon nga taga-Cyrene. Ginpilit nila siya nga magpas-an sang krus ni Jesus.
Pag-abot nila sa lugar nga ginatawag Golgota (nga kon sayuron, lugar sang bagol),
ginhatagan nila si Jesus sang bino nga may simbog nga mapait. Pero pagkatilaw niya sadto, wala niya pag-imna.
Dayon ginlansang nila siya sa krus, kag ginpartida nila ang iya mga bayo paagi sa paggabot-gabot.
Pagkatapos sadto nagpungko sila kag nagbantay sa iya.
amo ini si jesus nga hari sang mga judio. amo ini si jesus nga hari sang mga judio.
May duha man didto ka tulisan nga ginlansang sa krus upod kay Jesus. Ang isa sa tuo niya kag ang isa sa wala.
Ang mga tawo nga nagaalagi didto nagalungo-lungo nga nagainsulto kag nagayaguta kay Jesus.
Siling nila, “Ikaw nga nagasiling nga gub-on mo ang templo kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw patindugon mo liwat, luwasa ang imo kaugalingon! Kon ikaw ang Anak sang Dios, panaog ka sa krus!”
Pareho man sina ang yaguta sang manugdumala nga mga pari, mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Nagsiling sila, “Ginluwas niya ang iban, pero indi siya makaluwas sang iya kaugalingon! Indi bala hari siya kuno sang Israel? Kon makapanaog siya sa krus, matuo kita sa iya.
Nagasiling siya nga nagasalig siya sa Dios. Ti, tan-awon ta kon gusto siya sang Dios nga luwason, kay siling man niya nga Anak siya sang Dios!”
Kag pareho man sina ang pagyaguta sa iya sang mga tulisan nga ginlansang upod sa iya.
Sugod sang alas dose sang udto, nagdulom ang bug-os nga duta sa sulod sang tatlo ka oras.
Pag-alas tres sang hapon nagsinggit si Jesus sing mabaskog, “Eli, Eli, lema sabactani?” “Eli, Eli, lema sabactani?” nga kon sayuron, “Dios ko, Dios ko, ngaa ginpabay-an mo ako?”
Pagkabati sang iban nga nagatilindog didto nagsiling sila, “Ginatawag niya si Elias!”
May isa ka tawo didto nga nagdalagan kag nagkuha sang espongha.
Pero ang iban nagsiling, “Pabay-i lang siya! Tan-awon ta kon maabot si Elias sa pagluwas sa iya.”
Liwat nagsinggit sing mabaskog si Jesus kag nabugto ang iya ginhawa.
Sa amo man nga oras, napihak ang kurtina sa sulod sang templo sa Jerusalem halin sa ibabaw paidalom. Naglinog, kag ang mga bato nagkalabuka,
hasta ang mga lulubngan nagkalaabri. Madamo nga katawhan sang Dios nga patay na ang nagkalabanhaw.
Nagguwa sila sa ila mga lulubngan, pagkatapos nga nabanhaw si Jesus. Dayon nagsulod sila sa balaan nga siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem kag madamo nga tawo ang nakakita sa ila.
Ang kapitan kag ang mga soldado nga nagabantay kay Jesus kinulbaan gid sang mabatyagan nila ang paglinog kag sang makita nila ang mga nagkalatabo. Nagsiling sila, “Matuod gid nga siya amo ang Anak sang Dios!”
Sa ulo-unhan may madamo nga babayi nga nagatan-aw sa nagakalatabo. Ini sila ang nagsunod kag nag-atipan kay Jesus halin pa sa Galilea.
Kaupod nila si Maria nga taga-Magdala, si Maria nga iloy ni Santiago kag ni Jose, kag ang asawa ni Zebedee.
Pagkahapon may nag-abot nga isa ka manggaranon nga tawo nga taga-Arimatea. Ang iya ngalan si Jose kag nangin sumulunod siya ni Jesus.
Ginkadtuan niya si Pilato kag ginpangayo ang bangkay ni Jesus. Dayon nagmando si Pilato nga ihatag sa iya.
Ginkuha ni Jose ang bangkay ni Jesus kag ginsamburan niya sang bag-o nga tela nga linen.
May bag-o nga lulubngan si Jose nga gin-guhab sa banglid nga iya ginpahimo para sa iya kaugalingon. Didto niya ginbutang ang bangkay ni Jesus. Dayon ginpaligid niya ang dako nga bato sa pagtakop sang puwertahan sang lulubngan. Pagkatapos naglakat siya.
Nagpabilin didto si Maria nga taga-Magdala kag ang isa pa gid ka Maria. Nagapungko sila nga nagaatubang sa lulubngan.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, adlaw ato nga Sabado, nagkadto ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga Pariseo kay Pilato.
Nagsiling sila, “Halangdon nga Gobernador, nadumduman namon nga sang buhi pa atong manugpatalang, nagsiling siya nga mabanhaw siya kuno pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw.
Gani maayo siguro pabantayan mo ang lulubngan niya sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw, kay basi kon ang iya bangkay kawaton sang iya mga sumulunod kag dayon ipanugid nila sa mga tawo nga nabanhaw siya. Kag kon matabo ining kabutigan mangin mas malain pa ini sang sa nahauna.”
Nagsiling si Pilato sa ila, “May mga guwardya kamo. Kamo mismo ang magpabantay suno sa inyo nahibaluan.”
Gani nagkadto sila sa lulubngan, kag ginmarkahan nila ang bato nga nagatakop sa lulubngan nga nagatakop sa lulubngan para mahibaluan nila kon may nagbukas. Dayon ginbilin nila didto ang ila mga guwardya.
Sang kaagahon sang Domingo, pagkatapos sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagkadto si Maria nga taga-Magdala kag ang isa pa ka Maria didto sa lulubngan kay gusto nila magtan-aw.
Karon, gulpi lang nga naglinog sing mabaskog, kay ang anghel sang Ginoo halin sa langit nagpaligid sang bato nga nagatakop sa lulubngan nga nagatakop sa lulubngan kag ginpungkuan niya dayon ini.
Ang iya hitsura masyado kasilaw nga daw kilat, kag ang iya bayo maputi gid kaayo.
Ang mga guwardya sang lulubngan sang lulubngan nagkulurog sa kahadlok kag nagkalatumba nga daw sa mga patay.
Nagsiling ang anghel sa mga babayi, “Indi kamo magkahadlok. Nahibaluan ko kon ngaa nagkadto kamo diri. Ginapangita ninyo si Jesus nga ginlansang sa krus.
Wala na siya diri, kay nabanhaw siya pareho sang iya ginsiling sa inyo sa inyo . Dali kamo diri, tan-awa ninyo ang ginhamyangan sa iya.”
Pagkatapos sadto nagsiling ang anghel sa ila, Pagkatapos sadto nagsiling ang anghel sa ila, “Kadto kamo gilayon sa iya mga sumulunod, kag sugiri ninyo sila nga nabanhaw na siya, kag mauna siya sa inyo didto sa Galilea. Didto ninyo siya makita. Indi ninyo pagkalimtan ang ginsugid ko nga ini sa inyo.”
Gani dali-dali sila nga naghalin didto sa lulubngan. Bisan hinadlukan sila, nalipay gid sila sa ginbalita sa ila sang anghel sa ginbalita sa ila sang anghel . Kag nagdalagan sila para sugiran ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus.
Dugay-dugay nasugata nila si Jesus nga nagapangamusta sa ila. Dayon nagpalapit sila kay Jesus kag nagluhod sa iya. Ginhakos nila ang tiil ni Jesus kag nagsimba sila sa iya.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi kamo magkahadlok. Kadtui ninyo ang akon mga utod
Paghalin sang mga babayi sa lulubngan, ang iban nga mga guwardya naglakat man kag nagkadto sa siyudad kag ginsugid nila sa manugdumala nga mga pari ang tanan nga natabo didto sa lulubngan.
Gani nag-meeting ang manugdumala nga mga pari kaupod ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio. Nagkasugot sila nga hatagan nila sang madamo nga kuwarta ang mga soldado para indi sila magsugid kon ano gid ang matuod nga natabo.
Gintudluan nila ang mga soldado kon ano ang ila isugid sa mga tawo. Nagsiling sila, “Sugiran ninyo ang mga tawo nga samtang nagakatulog kamo kagab-i, nag-abot ang iya mga sumulunod kag ginkuha nila ang bangkay ni Jesus.
Kon mabatian ini sang gobernador kami ang bahala nga magpaathag sa iya para indi kamo maano.”
Gani ginbaton nila ang kuwarta kag gintuman nila ang ginsiling sa ila. Gani hasta subong amo ini nga estorya ang ginapalapnag sang mga Judio.
Karon, nagkadto ang onse ka sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus didto sa Galilea, sa bukid nga iya ginsiling sa ila.
Pagkakita nila sa iya nagsimba sila sa iya, pero ang iban nagpangduhaduha kon si Jesus gid bala ang ila nakita kon si Jesus gid bala ang ila nakita .
Nagpalapit si Jesus sa ila kag nagsiling, “Ginhatag sa akon ang tanan nga gahom sa langit kag sa duta.
Gani kadtui ninyo ang tanan nga katawhan kag himuon ninyo sila nga akon mga sumulunod. Bautisohan ninyo sila sa ngalan sang Amay, sang Anak, kag sang Espiritu Santo.
Tudlui ninyo sila nga tumanon ang tanan nga akon ginsugo sa inyo. Dumdumon ninyo nga kaupod ninyo ako permi hasta sa katapusan sang sini nga panahon.”
Amo ini ang Maayong Balita parte kay Jesu-Cristo nga Anak sang Dios. Nagsugod ini
sang matuman ang ginsulat ni Propeta Isaias parte sa ginhambal sang Dios sa iya Anak nga nagasiling parte sa ginhambal sang Dios sa iya Anak nga nagasiling , “Ipadala ko ang akon mensahero una sa imo sa pagpreparar sang imo alagyan.
Magawali siya sing mabaskog sa kamingawan. Siling niya, Siling niya, ‘Ipreparar ninyo ang alagyan para sa Ginoo. Tadlunga ang dalan nga iya pagaagyan.’ ”
Kag natuman ini sang Kag natuman ini sang pag-abot ni Juan nga manugbautiso didto sa kamingawan, nga sa diin nagwali siya sa mga tawo nga magpabautiso sila sa pagpakita sang ila paghinulsol para mapatawad ang ila ila mga sala.
Madamo gid nga mga tawo ang nagkadto kay Juan halin sa Jerusalem kag sa bilog nga probinsya sang probinsya sang Judea. Gintuad nila ang ila mga sala kag ginbautisohan sila ni Juan sa Suba sang Jordan.
Ang bayo ni Juan hinimo halin sa bulbol sang camel, kag ang iya paha panit. Ang iya ginakaon apan kag honey.
Amo ini ang iya ginapahibalo: “May magaabot nga nagasunod sa akon nga mas gamhanan pa sang sa akon kag indi gani ako takos nga mangin iya ulipon.”
Nagsiling pa gid siya, Nagsiling pa gid siya, “Ako nagabautiso sa inyo sa tubig, pero siya magabautiso sa inyo sa Espiritu Santo.”
Sang sadto nga tion, nag-abot si Jesus halin sa Nazaret nga sakop sang Galilea, kag nagpabautiso siya kay Juan sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan.
Pagtakas ni Jesus sa tubig, nakita niya dayon nga nag-abri ang langit, kag naghugpa sa iya ang Espiritu Santo Santo sa dagway sang pating.
Kag may tingog nga nabatian halin sa langit nga nagasiling, “Ikaw ang akon hinigugma nga Anak. Nalipay gid ako sa imo.”
Sa gilayon ginpakadto siya sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa kamingawan.
Kag didto siya nagtiner sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw nga ginatentar ni Satanas. May mapintas nga mga sapat didto, pero ginbuligan siya sang mga anghel.
Sang napriso si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso , nagkadto si Jesus sa Galilea kag nagwali sang Maayong Balita nga halin sa Dios.
Nagsiling siya, “Nag-abot na ang tion nga ginpropesiya sang mga propeta sang una. Malapit na
Isa sadto ka adlaw, Isa sadto ka adlaw, sang nagalakat si Jesus sa higad sang Dagat
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpadayon si Jesus sa paglakat, kag sa unhan nakita niya ang mag-utod nga si Santiago kag si Juan nga mga anak ni Zebedee. Ara sila sa ila sakayan nga nagakay-o sang ila pukot.
Gintawag dayon sila ni Jesus. Ginbayaan nila didto sa sakayan ang ila amay nga si Zebedee kag ang mga trabahador nila, kag nagsunod sila kay Jesus.
Nagkadto sila ni Jesus sa Capernaum. Pag-abot sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagsulod si Jesus sa simbahan sang mga Judio kag nagpanudlo.
Natingala gid ang mga tawo sa iya pagpanudlo, tungod nga nagatudlo siya nga may awtoridad, kag indi pareho sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan.
Sa mga tawo didto nga nagatilipon may isa nga ginagamhan sang mahigko nga espiritu nga nagsinggit,
“Jesus nga taga-Nazaret, ano ang labot mo sa amon? Nagkadto ka bala diri sa paglaglag sa amon? Kilala ko ikaw. Ikaw ang Balaan nga ginpadala nga ginpadala sang Dios.”
Pero ginsabdong ni Jesus ang espiritu, “Maghipos ka kag magguwa sa iya!”
Ang ato nga tawo ginpakurog sang mahigko nga espiritu nga nagasinggit samtang nagaguwa sa iya.
Natingala gid ang mga tawo didto, gani nagsiling sila, “Ano ini? Bag-o ini nga klase sang pagpanudlo nga may gahom. Bisan ang mahigko nga mga espiritu ginamanduan niya kag nagatuman sa iya.”
Gani madasig nga naglapnag ang balita parte kay Jesus sa bilog nga probinsya sang Galilea.
Naghalin sila sa simbahan sang mga Judio kag nagkadto sa balay nila ni Simon kag ni Andres. Nag-upod man si Santiago kag si Juan.
Sang sadto nga tion, nagahigda ang ugangan nga babayi ni Simon, kay may hilanat siya. Kag ginsugid dayon nila ini kay Jesus.
Gani ginpalapitan siya ni Jesus kag gin-uyatan sa kamot kag ginpabangon. Nag-ayo dayon siya, kag ginhimusan niya sang pagkaon sila ni Jesus.
Pagkasalop sang adlaw, gindala sang mga tawo kay Jesus ang tanan nga nagamasakit kag ang mga ginagamhan sang mga demonyo.
Madamo gid nga mga tawo sa banwa ang nagtilipon sa puwertahan sang balay sang balay .
Gin-ayo ni Jesus ang madamo nga nagamasakit sang nagkalain-lain nga balatian, kag gintabog niya ang madamo nga demonyo. Wala niya pagtuguti nga maghambal ang mga demonyo, kay kilala nila kon sin-o siya.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, sang madulumdulom pa, nagbangon si Jesus kag nagkadto sa kamingawan kag nagpangamuyo.
Ginpangita siya ni Simon kag sang iya mga kaupod.
Pagkakita nila kay Jesus nagsiling sila, “Ginapangita ka sang tanan.”
Pero nagsiling siya sa ila, “Malakat kita sa malapit nga mga banwa para makawali man ako didto, kay amo ini ang kabangdanan nga nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan .”
Gani ginlibot ni Jesus ang bilog nga Galilea nga nagawali sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio kag nagatabog sang mga demonyo sa mga tawo nga ila ginsudlan sa mga tawo nga ila ginsudlan .
May nagpalapit kay Jesus nga isa ka tawo nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit.
Naluoy gid si Jesus sa iya. Gani gintandog niya siya kag nagsiling, “Gusto ko. Magmatinlo ka!”
Sa gilayon nadula ang iya balatian kag nagtinlo siya.
Ginpalakat dayon siya ni Jesus pagkatapos nga ginpaandaman niya siya. Siling niya,
“Indi ka gid magpanugid bisan kay sin-o parte sini, kundi magderetso ka sa pari kag magpatan-aw sa iya.
Pero ato nga tawo naglakat kag nagsagi panugid parte sa natabo sa iya. Gani naglapnag ang balita parte sa natabo sa tawo parte sa natabo sa tawo hasta indi na makasulod si Jesus sa mga banwa, kay nagadinaguso ang mga tawo pakadto sa iya. Didto na lang siya nagtiner sa kamingawan. Pero padayon pa gihapon ang pagkadto sang mga tawo sa iya halin sa iban nga mga lugar.
Pagkaligad sang pila ka adlaw, nagbalik si Jesus sa Capernaum. Naglapnag ang balita nga ara siya sa iya ginaestaran.
Gani madamo nga tawo ang nagtilipon didto hasta nga napuno ang balay, kag bisan pa sa may puwertahan nagaginutok sila. Ginwali ni Jesus sa ila ang pulong sang Dios sang Dios .
Karon may mga tawo nga nag-abot kag gindala sa iya ang isa ka paralitiko nga ginatuwangan sang apat ka tawo.
Pero tungod nga nagaginutok ang mga tawo indi sila makapalapit kay Jesus. Gani gin-guhaban nila ang atop sa ibabaw sang ginatindugan ni Jesus. Pagkatapos gintunton nila ang paralitiko nga nagahigda sa iya hiligdaan.
Pagkakita ni Jesus nga may pagtuo sila sa iya sa iya , nagsiling siya sa paralitiko, “Anak, ginpatawad na ang imo mga sala.”
Sang mabatian ini sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga nagapungko didto, nagsiling sila sa ila kaugalingon,
“Paano nga makahambal siya sang subong sina? Pag-insulto ina sa Dios sa Dios . Wala sing bisan sin-o nga makapatawad sang mga sala kundi ang Dios lang.”
Sa gilayon nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila hunahuna. Gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ngaa nagahunahuna kamo sang subong sina?
Diin bala ang mas mahapos, ang magsiling sa paralitiko, ‘Ginpatawad na ang imo mga sala,’ ukon ang magsiling, ‘Magtindog ka, dal-a ang imo hiligdaan kag maglakat’?
Karon pamatud-an ko sa inyo paagi sa pag-ayo sa sini nga paralitiko nga ako paagi sa pag-ayo sa sini nga paralitiko nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo may gahom diri sa duta sa pagpatawad sang mga sala.”
Gani nagsiling siya sa paralitiko, “Magtindog ka, dal-a ang imo hiligdaan kag magpuli!”
Samtang nagatan-aw sila, nagbangon ang paralitiko kag gindala niya ang iya hiligdaan kag nagguwa. Natingala gid sila tanan kag gindayaw nila ang Dios. Siling nila, “Wala pa kami sing may nakita nga pareho sini.”
Pagkatapos sadto nagbalik liwat si Jesus sa higad sang Dagat sang Galilea sang Galilea . Madamo nga tawo ang nagpalapit sa iya, gani gintudluan niya sila.
Kag samtang nagalakat siya, nakita niya ang manugsukot sang buhis nga ang manugsukot sang buhis nga si Levi nga anak ni Alfeus. Didto siya nagapungko sa balayaran sang buhis. Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Dali, sunod ka sa akon.” Kag nagtindog si Levi kag nagsunod kay Jesus.
Karon, samtang nagakaon si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa balay ni Levi, madamo nga manugsukot sang buhis kag iban pa nga ginakabig nga iban pa nga ginakabig nga mga makasasala ang nag-upod sa ila kaon, kay madamo na ang nagasunod sa iya.
May mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga mga Pariseo nga didto man. Nakita nila si Jesus nga nagakaon upod sa mga manugsukot sang buhis kag sa iban pa nga ginakabig nga iban pa nga ginakabig nga mga makasasala pareho sa mga manugsukot sang buhis. Nagpamangkot sila sa iya mga sumulunod, “Ngaa nagakaon siya upod sa mga tawo nga pareho sina?”
Nabatian ni Jesus ang ila pamangkot, gani ginsabat niya sila, “Ang tawo nga maayo ang lawas wala nagakinahanglan sang doktor, kundi ang nagamasakit lang. Gani wala ako nagkadto diri sa pagtawag sa mga nagakilala nga sila nagakilala nga sila matarong, kundi sa mga makasasala.”
Ang mga sumulunod ni Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso kag ang mga Pariseo nagapuasa.
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Mahimo bala nga magpuasa ang mga bisita sa kasal samtang kaupod pa nila ang nobyo? Siyempre, indi!
Pero magaabot ang tion nga ang nobyo kuhaon sa ila, kag amo na ina ang ila pagpuasa.”
Indi man maayo nga isulod ang bag-o nga bino sa daan nga suludlan nga panit. Kay mabusdik ang suludlan kag mausik ang bino, kag pareho nga indi na mapuslan. Sa baylo, ginasulod ang bag-o nga bino sa bag-o nga suludlan nga panit.”
Sang isa ka Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, samtang nagaagi sila ni Jesus sa kaumahan sang trigo, namuksi ang iya mga sumulunod sang mga uhay sang trigo.
Gani nagsiling ang mga Pariseo kay Jesus, “Tan-awa ang imo mga sumulunod ang imo mga sumulunod ! Ngaa ginahimo nila ang ginabawal nga himuon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway?”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Wala bala ninyo mabasahi sa Kasulatan sa Kasulatan ang ginhimo ni David sang siya kag ang iya mga kaupod gin-gutom kag nagkinahanglan sang pagkaon?
Nagsulod si David sa balay sang Dios sadtong panahon nga si Abiatar ang pangulo nga pari. Ginkaon ni David ang tinapay nga ginhalad sa Dios, kag ginpakaon man niya ang iya mga kaupod, bisan pa nga bawal ang magkaon sadto luwas lang sa mga pari.”
Kag nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Ginhimo ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway para sa kaayuhan sang tawo. Wala ginhimo ang tawo para sa kaayuhan sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Gani, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo may gahom sa pagsiling kon ano ang husto nga himuon sa pagsiling kon ano ang husto nga himuon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.”
Sa liwat nagbalik si Jesus sa simbahan sang mga Judio kag may tawo didto nga pingkaw
Tungod nga ang mga Pariseo nagapangita gid sang kabangdanan nga maakusar nila si Jesus, ginabantayan nila kon bala ayuhon niya ang ato nga tawo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa tawo nga pingkaw, “Magpalapit ka diri sa atubangan.”
Pagkatapos nagpamangkot siya sa mga Pariseo, “Ano bala ang ginatugot sang aton Kasuguan sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway: ang paghimo sang maayo sa mga tawo ukon ang paghimo sang malain? Ang pagluwas sang ila kabuhi ukon ang pagpatay?” Pero wala gid sing may nagsabat.
Gintulok sila ni Jesus nga may kaakig, pero nasubuan man siya tungod sang katig-a sang ila balatyagon. Dayon nagsiling siya sa tawo nga pingkaw, “Untaya ang imo kamot!” Gin-untay niya, kag nag-ayo ini.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagguwa ang mga Pariseo kag nagpakigkita sa mga miyembro sang partido ni Herodes. Nagplano sila kon paano nila mapatay si Jesus.
Nagkadto si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa higad sang Dagat sang Galilea sang Galilea . Nagsunod sa ila ang madamo nga tawo nga halin sa Galilea kag sa Judea.
Madamo man ang naghalin sa Jerusalem, sa Idumea, sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, kag sa palibot sang Tyre kag Sidon, kay nabatian nila ang iya ginpanghimo.
Tungod sa kadamuon sang mga tawo ginsilingan niya ang iya mga sumulunod nga magpreparar sang sakayan para sa iya, agod nga kon magdinaguso sa iya ang mga tawo may masakyan siya.
Tungod nga madamo ang iya ginpang-ayo, ang tanan nga may masakit nagdinasok para makatandog sa iya.
Kag kon makita siya sang mga tawo nga ginagamhan sang tawo nga ginagamhan sang mahigko nga mga espiritu, nagaluhod sila kag nagasinggit, “Ikaw ang Anak sang Dios!”
Pero ginpaandaman gid niya ang mahigko nga mga espiritu nga indi magpanugid kon sin-o siya.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagtaklad si Jesus sa bukid kag gintawag niya ang luyag niya nga pilion. Gani nagpalapit sila sa iya.
Dayon nagpili siya sang dose nga iya man gintawag nga mga apostoles
Ginhatagan niya sila sing gahom para magtabog sang mga demonyo.
Amo ini ang dose nga iya ginpili:
si Santiago kag ang iya utod nga si Juan nga mga anak ni Zebedee (gin-ngalanan sila nga Boanerges nga ang buot silingon, mga anak sang daguob),
si Andres, si Felipe, si Bartolome, si Mateo, si Tomas, si Santiago nga anak ni Alfeus, si Tadeus, si Simon (nga sang una rebelde sa gobyerno sang Roma),
kag si Judas Iscariote
Dayon, nagpuli sila ni Jesus. Kag nagtilipon liwat ang mga tawo didto, gani si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod wala na sing tiyempo bisan magkaon.
Pagkabati sang iya pamilya parte sa mga ginahimo ni Jesus, nagkadto sila didto para kuhaon siya, kay nagsiling ang mga tawo nga buang siya.
Ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga nag-abot halin sa Jerusalem nagsiling, “Ginsudlan siya ni Satanas
Gintawag ni Jesus ang mga tawo nga magpalapit sa iya, kag naghambal siya sa ila paagi sa sini nga mga paanggid, “Indi mahimo nga si Satanas magtabog sang iya mga kaupod.
Kon ang mga pumuluyo sang mga pumuluyo sang isa ka ginharian magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway, ina nga ginharian indi makapadayon.
Amo man ang matabo sa isa ka panimalay kon ang mga nagaestar dira ang mga nagaestar dira magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway.
Gani kon si Satanas kag ang iya mga sakop magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway, ang iya ginharian indi man makapadayon kundi malaglag ini.
“Nagasiling pa gid ako sing matuod, nga ang tanan nga klase sang sala kag pagpakalain mapatawad.
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakalain sa Espiritu Santo indi gid mapatawad. Ini nga sala indi gid mapatawad hasta san-o.”
Ginhambal ini ni Jesus kay nagasiling ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga ginagamhan siya kuno sang mahigko nga espiritu.
Dayon nag-abot ang iloy kag ang mga utod ni Jesus. Samtang nagatindog sila didto sa guwa sang balay ginpatawag nila siya.
Madamo nga tawo didto ang nagapungko sa palibot ni Jesus. Siling sang mga tawo sa iya, “Ang imo iloy kag mga utod ara sa guwa kag ginapatawag ka nila.”
Siling niya, “Nahibaluan bala ninyo kon sin-o ang akon iloy kag mga utod?”
Nagtulok siya sa mga tawo nga nagapungko sa palibot niya kag nagsiling, “Amo ini sila ang akon iloy kag mga utod!
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagahimo sang kabubut-on sang Dios amo ang akon iloy kag mga utod.”
Nagpanudlo liwat si Jesus sa higad sang dagat. Madamo gid nga mga tawo ang nagtilipon sa iya palibot. Gani nagsakay siya sa sakayan nga nagapundo kag nagpungko siya didto. Kag ang mga tawo nagpabilin sa higad sang dagat.
Madamo nga butang ang iya gintudlo sa ila paagi sa mga paanggid.
Siling niya, “Magpamati kamo! May isa ka mangunguma nga nagsab-og sang binhi.
Ang iban nga mga binhi nagtupa kag nagtubo kag nagtubo sa duta nga may mga tunukon nga hilamon, pero pagdabong sang mga hilamon nalumos ang tanom, gani wala nakapamunga.
Ang iban pa gid nga mga binhi nagtupa sa maayo nga duta, kag nagtubo ini kag nagpamunga. Ang iban 30, ang iban 60, kag ang iban 100 ka pilo ang bunga ka pilo ang bunga .”
Siling pa ni Jesus sa ila, “Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian.”
Pagpalauli sang mga tawo, ang dose ka apostoles ka apostoles kag ang iban pa gid nga nagaupod kay Jesus nagpamangkot sa iya kon ano ang kahulugan sang sadto nga paanggid.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ang mga tinago nga kamatuoran parte sa paghari sang Dios ginasugid sa inyo nga maintiendihan ninyo nga maintiendihan ninyo , pero sa iban, ang tanan nga butang parte sa paghari sang Dios parte sa paghari sang Dios ginasugid sa ila paagi sa mga paanggid,
magahinulsol sila kag patawaron sila sang Dios.’ ”
Nagpamangkot dayon si Jesus sa ila, “Kon indi kamo makaintiendi sadto nga paanggid, paano ninyo maintiendihan ang iban ko pa nga mga paanggid?
Ang kahulugan sang akon paanggid amo ini Ang kahulugan sang akon paanggid amo ini : ang ginsab-og sang mangunguma amo ang pulong sang Dios sang Dios .
Ang higad sang dalan nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga sang pagkabati nila sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios , nag-abot man dayon si Satanas kag gin-agaw niya ang pulong sa ila tagipusuon.
Ang kabatuhan nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga sang pagkabati nila sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios , ginbaton nila dayon ini nga may kalipay,
pero indi hugot sa ila tagipusuon. Gani wala magdugay ang ila pagtuo. Pag-abot sang pag-antos ukon paghingabot tungod sa ila nga pagbaton sa ila nga pagbaton sa pulong sang Dios sang Dios , nagbiya sila gilayon sa ila pagtuo.
Ang duta nga may mga tunukon nga hilamon nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nakabati sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios .
Ugaling tungod sa mga palaligban sa sini nga panahon kag paghimulat nga makamanggad, kag tungod sa sobra nga handom sang iban nga mga butang, nalipatan nila ang pulong sang Dios sang Dios nga ila nabatian kag wala ini namunga sa ila kabuhi sa ila kabuhi .
Pero ang maayo nga duta nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nagpamati sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios kag ginbaton nila sa ila tagipusuon kag namunga sa ila kabuhi sa ila kabuhi . Ang iban 30, ang iban 60, kag ang iban 100 ka pilo ang bunga ka pilo ang bunga .”
Nagpadayon pa gid sa paghambal si Jesus sa ila, “Kon ang tawo magsindi sang suga, wala niya ginatakluban sang sulukban ukon ginabutang sa idalom sang katre, kundi ginabutang niya sa tulungtungan.
Amo man ina nga wala sing tinago nga indi magguwa sa ulihi, kag wala sing sekreto nga indi mabuyagyag.
Nagsiling pa gid siya, “Pamatii ninyo ako sing maayo! Magahatag ang Dios sa inyo sing pag-intiendi suno sa inyo pagpamati, kag iya pa gani ini dugangan.
Kay ang tawo nga nagatuman sang iya nabatian nga kamatuoran pagahatagan pa gid sang pag-intiendi. Pero ang tawo nga wala nagatuman sa kamatuoran, bisan ang diutay nga iya naintiendihan kuhaon pa sa iya.”
Siling pa gid ni Jesus, “Ang paghari sang Dios mapaanggid sa sini nga estorya: May sini nga estorya: May isa ka tawo nga nagsab-og sang binhi sa iya uma.
Samtang nagapadayon siya sa iya obra kada adlaw kag samtang nagatulog siya kada gab-i, ang mga binhi nga iya ginsab-og nagatubo bisan wala niya mahibalui kon paano.
Ang duta mismo amo ang nagapatubo kag nagapatubo kag nagapabunga sang mga tanom: nahauna ang dahon, dason ang uhay, kag sa ulihi ang matinggas nga bunga.
Kag kon luto na, ginaani sang tag-iya kay alanihon na.”
Nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila sa ila , “Sa ano ta mapaanggid ang paghari sang Dios? Ano nga paanggid ang aton gamiton para mapaathag ini?
Ang paghari sang Dios pareho sa binhi sang mustasa.
pero kon matanom na, nagatubo kag nagalabaw pa sa tanan nga ulutanon nga bisan ang mga pispis sarang makapugad sa iya mahandong nga mga sanga.”
Madamo pa gid nga mga paanggid nga pareho sini ang gin-gamit ni Jesus sa iya pagpanudlo sa mga tawo, suno lang sa ila maintiendihan.
Wala siya sing may ginhambal sa mga tawo nga indi paagi sa paanggid, pero ginapaathag niya ini tanan sa iya mga sumulunod kon silahanon na lang.
Sang sirom na sadto nga adlaw, nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Dali, matabok kita sa pihak sang dagat.”
Gani ginbayaan sang iya mga sumulunod ang madamo nga tawo nga nagatilipon, kag naglarga sila kaupod ni Jesus nga didto na sa sakayan. May mga sakayan man didto nga nagdungan sa ila.
Kag samtang nagabiyahe sila, samtang nagabiyahe sila, hinali lang nga nagbaskog ang hangin. Sige ang basya sang dalagko nga mga balod, kag daw sa mapuno na ang sakayan.
Pero si Jesus didto sa buli sang sakayan nga nagakatulog nga may ulunan. Ginpukaw nila siya. Siling nila, “Manunudlo, wala ka bala nagakabalaka nga malunod na kita?”
Gani nagbangon siya kag ginsabdong niya ang hangin kag ang balod. Siling niya, “Untat!” Kag nag-untat ang hangin kag naglinaw ang dagat.
Siling dayon ni Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa bala nahadlok kamo? Ano, wala pa gid bala kamo sing pagtuo sa akon sa akon ?”
Kinulbaan gid sila, kag nagpinamangkutanay sila, “Sin-o gid ayhan ini nga bisan ang hangin kag ang mga balod nagatuman sa iya?”
Pagkatapos sadto nakaabot sila sa tabok sang Dagat
Sang nakapanaog na si Jesus sa sakayan, ginsugata siya sang isa ka tawo nga halin sa mga kuweba nga kuweba nga lulubngan. Ini nga tawo ginagamhan sang mahigko nga espiritu
kag didto siya nagaestar sa mga lulubngan. Wala na gid sing may makagapos sa iya, bisan makakadena sa iya.
Kay madamo na nga tion nga gin-gapos sang kadena ang iya mga tiil kag mga kamot, pero ginapamugto lang niya ini. Wala gid sing may makapugong sa iya.
Adlaw-gab-i, bisan ara siya sa mga kuweba nga lulubngan ukon sa mga bukid man, permi siya nagasinggit kag ginapilas niya ang iya lawas sang bato.
Pagkakita niya kay Jesus sa malayo, nagdalagan siya pakadto sa iya kag nagluhod.
Ginpamangkot siya dayon ni Jesus, “Ano ang imo ngalan?” Nagsabat siya, “Ang akon ngalan si Panong kay madamo kami.”
Kag sige ang iya pagpakitluoy kay Jesus nga indi lang sila pagtabugon sa sadto nga lugar.
Malapit didto, may madamo nga baboy nga nagakaon sa banglid.
Nagpakitluoy kay Jesus ang mga demonyo nga nagasiling, “Tuguti na lang kami nga magsulod sa sina nga mga baboy.”
Gani gintugutan niya sila. Kag nagguluwa ang mahigko nga mga espiritu sa tawo kag nagsulod sa mga baboy. Dayon ang tanan nga baboy didto nga mga duha ka libo nagdinaguso padulhog sa banglid deretso sa tubig kag nagkalalumos.
Nagdinalagan ang mga manugsagod sang mga baboy kag ginpanugid nila sa mga tawo sa banwa kag sa kaumahan ang mga natabo nga ato. Gani nagkadto ang mga tawo didto kay Jesus para tan-awon kon ano ang natabo.
Pag-abot nila kay Jesus nakita nila ang tawo nga sadto anay gin-gamhan sang panong sang mga demonyo. Nagapungko siya nga may bayo kag husto na ang iya paminsaron. Gani hinadlukan sila.
Ang mga nakakita mismo sa natabo nagsugid sa mga tawo kon ano ang natabo sa tawo nga gin-gamhan anay sang mga demonyo kag ang natabo sa mga baboy.
Gani tungod sa sini nga hitabo, nagpakitluoy sila kay Jesus nga maghalin sa ila lugar.
Sang manugsakay na si Jesus sa sakayan, ang tawo nga gin-gamhan anay sang mga demonyo nagpakitluoy sa iya nga kon mahimo paupdon siya.
Pero wala siya pagtuguti ni Jesus, kundi ginsilingan siya, “Magpuli ka sa imo pamilya kag sugiran mo sila kon ano ang ginhimo sang Ginoo sa imo kag kon paano siya naluoy sa imo anay kahimtangan.”
Gani naglakat ang tawo kag nagkadto sa Decapolis. Kag didto ginpanugid niya ang ginhimo ni Jesus sa iya. Natingala gid ang tanan nga nakabati sa iya.
Pagtabok liwat ni Jesus sa pihak sang dagat, madamo naman nga mga tawo ang nagtilipon didto sa iya.
Gani nag-upod si Jesus sa iya. Madamo gid nga mga tawo ang nag-upod kay Jesus kag nagadinaguso sila sa iya.
May babayi didto nga ginapangguwaan sang dugo sa sulod sang dose na ka tuig.
Puwerte gid ang iya pag-antos sa pihak sang iya pagpabulong sa nagkalain-lain nga manugbulong. Nagasto na niya ang tanan niya nga mga pagkabutang, pero wala gid siya mag-ayo. Nagdugang pa gid gani ang iya masakit.
Nabatian niya ang mga balita parte kay Jesus, gani nagdasok siya sa mga tawo sa likod dampi ni Jesus kag gintandog niya ang bayo ni Jesus,
kay naghunahuna siya, “Kon matandog ko lang bisan ang iya bayo, magaayo gid ako.”
Sa gilayon nag-untat ang pagpangguwa sang dugo sa iya, kag nabatyagan niya nga nag-ayo na siya sa iya masakit.
Nabatyagan ni Jesus nga may gahom nga nagguwa sa iya, gani nagliso siya kag nagsiling, “Sin-o ang nagtandog sa akon bayo?”
Nagsabat ang iya mga sumulunod, “Kadamo sang tawo nga nagadinaguso sa imo, ngaa nagapamangkot ka pa kon sin-o ang nagtandog sa imo?”
Pero nagpanulok-tulok pa gid siya kon sin-o ang nagtandog sa iya.
Tungod nga nahibaluan sang babayi kon ano ang natabo sa iya, nagpalapit siya kay Jesus nga nagakurog sa kahadlok. Nagluhod siya kag nagsugid sang matuod.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Anak, ang imo pagtuo nag-ayo
Samtang nagahambal pa siya sa babayi, may nag-abot nga pila ka tawo halin sa balay ni Jairus. Siling nila kay Jairus, “Patay na ang imo bata. Indi na pagdisturbuha ang manunudlo.”
Pero wala nagsapak si Jesus sa sadto nga balita. Nagsiling siya kay Jairus, “Indi ka magkahadlok. Magtuo ka lang.”
Gani nagpadayon gid sila Gani nagpadayon gid sila . Pero wala siya sang may ginpaupod luwas kay Pedro kag ang mag-utod nga si Santiago kag si Juan.
Pag-abot nila sa balay ni Jairus, nakita ni Jesus nga nagaginahod ang mga tawo. Ang iban nagahinibi kag ang iban nagapanalambiton.
Nagsulod sila ni Jesus sa balay, kag nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, “Ngaa nagaginahod kag nagahinibi kamo? Indi patay ang bata, kundi nagakatulog lang.”
Ginkadlawan nila si Jesus. Gani ginpaguwa niya ang tanan nga tawo kag ginpasulod niya sa kuwarto sang bata ang iya sini amay kag iloy, kag ang tatlo nga iya kaupod.
Dayon gin-uyatan niya ang kamot sang bata kag nagsiling, “Talitha, Koum,” “Talitha, Koum,” nga kon sa aton pa, “Day, magbangon ka!”
Kag nagbangon dayon ang dalagita kag naglakat-lakat. (Ang dalagita nagaedad sang dose ka tuig). Tungod sa natabo, dako gid ang ila pagkatingala.
Pero ginmanduan sila ni Jesus nga indi gid magpanugid bisan kay sin-o parte sa natabo. Dayon ginsilingan niya sila nga hatagan sang pagkaon ang bata.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpuli si Jesus sa iya banwa, kag nag-upod sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod.
Pag-abot sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nagpanudlo siya sa simbahan sang mga Judio. Madamo nga tawo didto ang nakabati sa iya kag natingala gid sila. Siling nila, “Ngaa madamo sang nahibaluan ang tawo nga ini? Sa diin bala siya nakakuha sini nga kaalam? Kag ngaa makahimo siya sang mga milagro?
Indi bala siya ang panday nga anak ni Maria kag utod nila ni Santiago, Jose, Judas kag Simon? Kag indi bala ang mga utod niya nga mga babayi diri man nagapuli?” Gani indi gid sila magtuo sa iya.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ginatahod ang propeta bisan diin luwas lang sa iya kaugalingon nga banwa kag sa iya mga paryente kag panimalay.”
Amo ina nga Amo ina nga wala siya makahimo sang mga milagro sa sadto nga lugar, luwas lang sa pila ka masakiton nga iya gintandog sang iya kamot kag nag-ayo.
Pagkatapos sadto naglibot si Jesus nga nagapanudlo sa mga baryo.
Gintawag niya ang dose niya ka apostoles niya ka apostoles kag ginpadala niya sila sing tagduha-duha. Ginhatagan niya sila sing awtoridad sa pagtabog sang mahigko nga mga espiritu.
Ginmanduan niya sila, “Indi kamo magdala sang bisan ano sa inyo paglakat kundi baston gid lang. Indi man kamo magdala sang pagkaon, kuwarta ukon bag.
Puwede kamo makasuksok sang sandalyas, pero indi kamo magdala sang ilislan nga bayo.
Kon padayunon kamo sa isa ka balay, dira gid lang kamo magdayon hasta maghalin kamo sa sina nga lugar.
Pero kon ang mga tawo sa isa ka lugar indi magbaton sa inyo kag indi magpamati sang inyo ginawali, bayai lang ninyo sila, kag sa paghalin ninyo, taktaka ninyo ang yab-ok sa inyo tiil bilang paandam kontra sa ila.”
Gani naglakat sila kag nagwali nga dapat maghinulsol ang mga tawo sa ila mga sala.
Madamo nga demonyo ang ila gintabog kag madamo nga masakiton ang ila ginhaplasan sang lana nga nag-alayo.
Nakaabot kay Haring Herodes ang mga balita parte kay Jesus tungod nga nagbantog na siya. Ang iban nagasiling nga si Jesus amo si Juan nga manugbautiso nga nabanhaw, amo ina nga may gahom siya sa paghimo sang mga milagro.
Pero nagasiling ang iban nga siya si Propeta Elias. Kag nagasiling pa gid ang iban nga siya isa ka propeta nga pareho sang mga propeta sang una.
Pero pagkabati ni Herodes sina nga mga balita, nagsiling siya, “Nabanhaw si Juan nga akon ginpapugutan sang ulo.”
Kag tungod sa dumot ni Herodias kay Juan gusto niya nga ipapatay siya, pero indi niya mahimo tungod nga indi magsugot si Herodes tungod nga indi magsugot si Herodes .
Kay nahadlok si Herodes kay Juan tungod nga nahibaluan niya nga si Juan diosnon kag matarong nga tawo. Gani gin-apinan ni Herodes si Juan para indi maano. Gusto ni Herodes nga magpamati sa mga wali ni Juan bisan matuod nga ang iya mga nabatian nagapalibog sang iya ulo.
Sang ulihi nag-abot gid man ang tion nga ginahulat ni Herodias. Natabo ini sa kaadlawan ni Herodes. Nagpapunsyon si Herodes kag gin-imbitar niya ang mga opisyal sang Galilea, ang mga kumander sang Romanhon nga mga soldado sang Romanhon nga mga soldado , kag ang mga kilala nga mga tawo didto.
Sa tion na sang punsyon, nagsulod ang dalaga nga anak ni Herodias kag nagsaot. Nalipay gid si Herodes kag ang iya mga bisita. Gani nagsiling si Herodes sa dalaga, “Pangayo ka sa akon sang bisan ano nga imo naluyagan kag ihatag ko sa imo.”
Kag siling pa gid niya sa dalaga, “Ginasumpa ko nga bisan ano ang imo pangayuon sa akon ihatag ko sa imo, bisan katunga pa sang akon ginharian.”
Nagguwa ang dalaga kag nagpamangkot sa iya iloy kon ano ang iya pangayuon. Nagsabat ang iya iloy nga pangayuon niya ang ulo ni Juan nga manugbautiso.
Dayon nagdali-dali siya balik sa hari. Pag-abot niya didto nagsiling siya, “Gusto ko nga ihatag mo sa akon subong gid ang ulo ni Juan nga manugbautiso nga nabutang sa bandehado.”
Pagkabati sadto sang hari nagkasubo gid siya. Pero tungod nga nakapanumpa siya kag nabatian mismo sang iya mga bisita, indi niya gusto nga maguba ang iya promisa sa dalaga.
Sa gilayon ginsugo niya ang isa ka soldado nga dal-on sa iya ang ulo ni Juan. Gani naglakat ang soldado sa prisohan kag ginpugutan sang ulo si Juan.
Pagkatapos ginbutang niya sa bandehado ang ulo ni Juan kag ginhatag sa dalaga, kag ginhatag man sang dalaga sa iya iloy.
Pagkabati sang mga sumulunod ni Juan parte sa natabo, ginkadtuan nila kag ginkuha ang lawas ni Juan kag ginbutang sa lulubngan.
Ang mga apostoles nga naglakat sa pagwali nagbalik kay Jesus. Ginsugid nila sa iya ang tanan nila nga ginhimo kag mga ginpanudlo.
Tungod sa kadamuon sang mga tawo nga nagapakadto-pakari, wala na gid sila sang tiyempo bisan sa pagkaon. Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Dali, makadto kita sa kamingawan para makapahuway-huway kamo bisan dali lang.”
Gani nagsakay sila sa sakayan kag nagkadto sa kamingawan.
Pero nakilal-an sila sang madamo nga tawo nga nakakita sang ila paghalin. Gani nagdalagan ang mga tawo halin sa nagkalain-lain nga banwa pakadto sa lugar nga ginapakadtuan nila ni Jesus, kag nauna pa sila abot didto.
Sang pagpanaog ni Jesus sa sakayan, nakita niya ang madamo gid nga mga tawo. Naluoy gid siya sa ila, kay daw pareho sila sa mga karnero nga wala sing manugbantay. Gani gintudluan niya sila sang madamo nga butang.
Sang hapon na gid, nagpalapit sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod. Siling nila, “Hapon na gid, kag ari kita diri sa kamingawan.
Palakta na ang mga tawo sa mga baryo kag sa mga sityo sa palibot para makabakal sila sang ila pagkaon.”
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kamo mismo ang maghatag sang pagkaon sa ila.” Nagsabat sila kay Jesus, “Mga walo ka bulan nga suweldo ang magasto sa tinapay nga ipakaon sa ila. Malakat bala kami kag magbakal sang sina nga kantidad sang tinapay?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Pila ka bilog ang inyo tinapay dira? Abi, tan-awa ninyo.” Sang mausisa nila nagsiling sila, “Lima ka tinapay, kag may duha ka isda.”
Dayon ginsugo ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod nga papungkuon sing grupo-grupo ang mga tawo sa hilamon.
Gani nagpulungko ang mga tawo sa tag-100 kag tag-50.
Dayon ginkuha ni Jesus ang lima ka tinapay kag duha ka isda, kag nagtangla siya sa langit kag nagpasalamat sa Dios sa Dios . Pagkatapos ginpamihak-pihak niya ang tinapay kag ginhatag sa iya mga sumulunod para ipanagtag sa mga tawo. Kag ginpartida man niya ang isda sa tanan.
Nakakaon sila tanan kag nagkalabusog.
Pagkatapos kaon, Pagkatapos kaon, gintipon nila ang mga nabilin nga tinapay kag isda, kag dose pa ka alat ang napuno.
Ang kadamuon sang mga lalaki lang nga nagkalaon 5,000.
Pagkatapos sadto, ginsugo ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod nga magsakay sa sakayan kag mag-una didto sa Betsaida, sa tabok sang dagat, samtang ginapapuli niya ang mga tawo.
Sang nakahalin na ang mga tawo, nagtaklad siya sa bukid para magpangamuyo.
Pagkagab-i, ang sakayan didto na sa tunga sang dagat, pero si Jesus didto pa sa takas nga nagaisahanon lang.
Nakita niya nga ginabudlayan sila sa pagbugsay, kay nagasugata ang hangin. Sang kaagahon na, nagkadto siya didto sa ila nga nagalakat sa ibabaw sang tubig. Maagi lang siya kuntani sa ila,
Dayon nagsakay siya sa sakayan kag nag-untat ang mabaskog nga mabaskog nga hangin. Kag natingala gid sila,
tungod kay bisan nakita na nila ang milagro nga ginhimo niya sa tinapay, wala pa gid sila makaintiendi sang kahulugan sadto, kay nadulman pa ang ila hunahuna.
Pag-abot nila sa pihak, nagdungka sila sa baybayon sa Genesaret sa diin ginpundo nila ang sakayan.
Pagpanaog nila, nakilala dayon sang mga tawo si Jesus.
Gani nagdali-dali ang mga tawo sa pagkadto sa palibot nga mga lugar kag ginpamutang nila sa mga hiligdaan ang mga masakiton kag gindala nila sa mga lugar nga mabatian nila nga didto si Jesus.
Bisan sa diin siya magkadto, sa mga sityo, sa mga baryo ukon sa mga banwa man, basta mabatian sang mga tawo nga didto siya, ginadala nila ang ila mga masakiton sa lugar nga ginatipunan permi sang mga tawo. Ginpangabay nila si Jesus nga tugutan niya ang mga masakiton nga tandugon siya bisan sa gaway-gaway
May mga Pariseo kag pila ka manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga nag-abot halin sa Jerusalem nga nagtipon sa palibot ni Jesus.
Nakita nila nga ang iban sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus nagakaon nga wala nila ginhimo ang ritual sang ritual sang pagpanghinaw sang kamot.
Ang mga Judio, labi na ang mga Pariseo, indi magkaon kon indi anay sila makapanghinaw sang ila mga kamot suno sa tradisyon sang ila mga katigulangan.
Indi man sila magkaon sang bisan ano nga naghalin sa tindahan kon indi anay sila makapanghinaw. Madamo pa gid ang ila mga pagsulundan pareho sang pagpanghugas sang mga tasa, kolon, kag mga saway nga mga lulutuan.
Gani nagpamangkot kay Jesus ang mga Pariseo kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, “Ngaa ang imo mga sumulunod wala nagasunod sa tradisyon sang aton mga katigulangan? Nagakaon sila nga wala nila ginhimo ang ritual sang ritual sang pagpanghinaw sang kamot.”
nga ginhimo lang sang tawo.’
Ginasikway ninyo ang sugo sang Dios, kag ang mga tradisyon sang tawo amo ang inyo ginatuman.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Maayo gid kamo magpadihot sa pagsikway sang ginapatuman sang Dios para masunod ninyo ang inyo mga tradisyon.
Pareho abi sini: nagsiling si Moises, ‘Tahura ang imo amay kag iloy,’
Pero kamo ya nagatudlo nga kon ang tawo maghambal sa iya ginikanan nga ang bulig nga ihatag kuntani niya sa ila Korban (buot silingon, inughatag sa Dios),
wala na ninyo siya ginaobligar nga magbulig sa ila.
Ginapakawalay pulos ninyo ang pulong sang Dios tungod sa inyo tradisyon nga ginpanubli ninyo sa inyo mga katigulangan sa inyo mga katigulangan . Kag madamo pa gid nga pareho sini ang inyo ginahimo.”
Gintawag liwat ni Jesus ang mga tawo kag ginsilingan, “Pamati kamo tanan sa akon, kag intiendiha ninyo ang akon ihambal.
Wala sing butang nga nagasulod sa tawo nga nagapahigko sa iya, kundi ang mga nagaguwa sa iya.
Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian!”
Pagkatapos ginbayaan niya ang mga tawo kag nagsulod siya sa balay. Sang sa sulod na siya, Sang sa sulod na siya, ang iya mga sumulunod nagpamangkot sa iya kon ano ang kahulugan sadtong paanggid.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa, wala man bala kamo makaintiendi? Wala bala ninyo mahibalui nga ang bisan ano nga ginakaon indi makapahigko sa tawo?
Kay wala man ina nagasulod sa iya tagipusuon kundi sa iya tiyan kag nagaguwa man sa iya lawas.” Sa sining ginhambal ni Jesus Sa sining ginhambal ni Jesus ginapahayag niya nga puwede kaunon ang tanan nga pagkaon.
Nagsiling pa gid siya, “Ang nagaguwa sa tawo amo ang nagapahigko sa iya.
Kay sa tagipusuon sang tawo nagahalin ang malain nga mga panghunahuna nga amo ang nagatulod sa iya sa pagpakigrelasyon nga imoral, pagpangawat, pagpatay,
pagpanginlalaki ukon pagpanginbabayi, pagkahisa, paghimo sang tanan nga kalainan, pagpangdaya, pagpagusto himo sang kalautan, pagkamahisaon, pagyaguta sa iya isigkatawo sa iya isigkatawo , pagpabugal, kag paghimo sang mga kabuangan.
Ini tanan nga kalainan nagahalin sa sulod sang tagipusuon sang tawo, kag amo ini ang nagapahigko sa iya.”
Dayon naghalin si Jesus sa Galilea kag nagkadto sa mga lugar nga malapit sa Tyre.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa iya sa paanggid sa paanggid , “Kinahanglan nga pakaunon anay ang mga anak, kay indi maayo nga kuhaon ang pagkaon sang mga anak kag ihaboy sa mga ido.”
Gani nagsiling ang babayi sa iya, “Husto ina Ginoo, pero bisan pa ang mga ido sa idalom sang lamisa nagakaon sang mga usik sang mga anak.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Tungod sa imo sabat, sarang ka na makapuli. Nagguwa na ang demonyo sa imo anak.”
Nagpuli ang babayi kag naabtan niya ang iya anak nga nagahigda sa katre, kag ang demonyo nakaguwa na sa iya.
Paghalin ni Jesus sa mga lugar nga sakop sang Tyre, nag-agi siya sa Sidon kag sa mga lugar nga sakop sang Decapolis. Pagkatapos nagderetso siya sa Dagat sang Galilea.
May tawo didto nga bungol kag apa nga gindala sang mga tawo kay Jesus. Nagpakitluoy sila sa iya nga itungtong niya ang iya kamot sa sini nga tawo.
Ginpain siya ni Jesus sa kadam-an, kag gin-gulo ni Jesus ang iya mga tudlo sa mga dulunggan sang tawo. Pagkatapos nagdupla siya kag gintandog ang dila sadtong lalaki.
Dayon nagtangla si Jesus sa langit kag nagginhawa sing madalom, kag nagsiling sa iya, “Effata!” “Effata!” Kon sa aton pa, “Magbukas ka!”
Pagkatapos sadto nakabati na siya kag maathag na ang iya paghambal.
Dayon ginbilinan niya ang mga tawo nga indi sila magpanugid bisan kay sin-o parte sa natabo. Pero bisan ginabawalan sila, nagdugang pa gani ang ila pagpalapnag sang balita sa mga tawo.
Dako gid ang katingala sang mga tawo. Siling nila, “Daw ano kaayo sang iya mga ginahimo! Bisan ang mga bungol napabati niya kag ang mga apa napahambal niya!”
Pagkatapos sang pila ka adlaw, nagtilipon naman ang madamo nga tawo didto kay Jesus. Sang wala na sila sang pagkaon, gintawag ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod kag ginsilingan,
“Naluoy gid ako sa sina nga mga tawo. Tatlo na ka adlaw nga nagaupod-upod sila sa akon kag wala na sila sing kalan-on.
Kon papulion ko sila nga gutom basi malipong sila sa dalan kay malayo gid ang ginhalinan sang iban sa ila.”
Nagsabat ang iya mga sumulunod, “Diin bala kita makakuha sang pagkaon diri sa kamingawan para ipakaon sa sini nga mga tawo?”
Pero nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “Pila ka bilog ang inyo tinapay dira?” Nagsabat sila, “Pito.”
Dayon ginpapungko ni Jesus ang mga tawo sa duta. Ginkuha niya ang pito ka tinapay kag nagpasalamat sa Dios sa Dios . Pagkatapos ginpamihak-pihak niya ini kag ginhatag sa iya mga sumulunod para ipanagtag sa mga tawo.
May pila man sila ka bilog nga magagmay nga mga isda. Ginpasalamatan man niya ini kag ginhatag sa iya mga sumulunod para ipanagtag sa mga tawo.
Nagkaon sila kag nagkalabusog. Pagkatapos gintipon nila ang tinapay nga sobra, kag nakapuno sila sang pito ka alat.
Ang mga lalaki lang nga nagkalaon mga 4,000. Pagkatapos sadto, ginpapuli ni Jesus ang mga tawo
kag nagsakay siya sa sakayan kaupod sang iya mga sumulunod kag nagkadto sa Dalmanuta.
Pag-abot nila didto, may mga Pariseo nga nagkadto kay Jesus kag nagpakigbais sa iya. Gusto nila nga tilawan si Jesus gani nagpangayo sila sa iya sang milagro halin sa Dios
Pero nagpanghayhay si Jesus kag nagsiling, “Ngaa bala nagapangayo sang milagro ang mga tawo mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon? Sa pagkamatuod, wala gid sang milagro nga ipakita sa ila!”
Dayon ginbayaan niya ato nga mga Pariseo. Nagbalik siya sa sakayan kag nagtabok liwat sa pihak sang dagat.
Nalipatan sang iya mga sumulunod nga magdala sang tinapay luwas sa isa lang ka bilog nga nadala nila sa sakayan.
Ginpaandaman sila ni Jesus paagi sa paanggid paagi sa paanggid , “Mag-andam gid kamo sa inugpahabok
Nagbinaisay sila nga nagasiling, “Ginhambal niya ato kay wala kita nakadala sang tinapay.”
Nahibaluan ni Jesus kon ano ang ginabaisan nila. Gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ngaa ginabaisan ninyo nga wala kamo tinapay? Indi pa gid bala kamo makaintiendi? Mabudlay bala gihapon kamo paintiendihon?
Nagpamangkot pa gid si Jesus, Nagpamangkot pa gid si Jesus, “Kag ang pagpamihak-pihak ko sang pito ka tinapay para sa 4,000, pila bala ka alat ang napuno sang inyo natipon nga sobra?” Nagsabat sila, “Pito!”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Indi pa gihapon ninyo maintiendihan ang ginhambal ko parte sa inugpahabok ang ginhambal ko parte sa inugpahabok ?”
Pag-abot nila sa Betsaida may mga tawo didto nga nagdala sang bulag nga lalaki kay Jesus. Nagpakitluoy sila sa iya nga tandugon niya ang bulag para makakita para makakita .
Gani gin-uyatan niya ang kamot sang bulag kag gintuytuyan pakadto sa guwa sang Betsaida. Pag-abot nila sa guwa ginduplaan niya ang mga mata sang bulag. Dayon gintungtong niya ang iya mga kamot sa bulag kag nagpamangkot, “May nakita ka na bala?”
Nagtangla ang lalaki kag nagsiling, “Nakakita na ako sang mga tawo, pero daw sa mga kahoy nga nagalakat.”
Gani gintungtong liwat ni Jesus ang iya kamot sa mga mata sang bulag. Pagkatapos naghimutad sing maayo ang bulag kag nag-ayo ang iya mga mata. Maathag na ang tanan sa iya panulok.
Ginpapuli siya ni Jesus kag ginsilingan, “Indi ka na magbalik sa Betsaida.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagkadto si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa mga baryo nga sakop sang Cesarea Filipos. Samtang nagalakat sila nagpamangkot si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Suno sa mga tawo, sin-o bala ako?”
Nagsabat sila, “ May mga nagasiling nga ikaw May mga nagasiling nga ikaw si Juan nga manugbautiso. Ang iban nagasiling nga ikaw nagasiling nga ikaw si Elias, kag ang iban pa gid nagasiling nga ikaw nagasiling nga ikaw isa sa mga propeta.”
Dayon nagpamangkot siya sa ila, “Pero suno sa inyo sin-o bala ako?” Nagsabat si Pedro, “Ikaw ang Cristo!”
Dayon ginpaandaman sila ni Jesus nga indi gid magpanugid bisan kay sin-o parte sa iya.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “ Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo kinahanglan gid nga mag-antos sa pagahimuon sa akon sang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, sang manugdumala nga mga pari, kag sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Sikwayon nila ako kag patyon, pero sa ikatlo nga adlaw mabanhaw ako.”
Ginpaathag gid niya ini sa ila. Pagkabati sadto ni Pedro, gindala niya si Jesus sa ulo-unhan kag ginsaway nga indi maghambal sina nga indi maghambal sina .
Pero nagliso si Jesus, nagtulok sa iya mga sumulunod, kag ginsabdong si Pedro, “Palayo ka sa akon, Satanas! Kay ang imo hunahuna indi iya sang Dios kundi iya sang tawo.”
Dayon gintawag niya ang mga tawo kaupod sang mga sumulunod niya nga magpalapit. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kon may tawo nga gusto magsunod sa akon, indi niya dapat pagpasulabihon ang iya kaugalingon. Kag dapat handa siya sa pag-atubang sa kamatayon
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga luyag magluwas sang iya kabuhi madula niya ini. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga maghalad sang iya kabuhi tungod sa akon kag sa Maayong Balita makaangkon sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Ano gid bala ang makuha sang tawo kon maangkon niya ang tanan nga butang diri sa kalibutan, pero mawala ang iya kabuhi? Wala gid! Wala gid!
Kay wala gid sang butang nga sarang niya mahatag para mapabalik niya ang iya kabuhi.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagakahuya sa akon kag sa akon mga ginatudlo sa sini nga henerasyon, nga ang mga tawo malain kag indi diosnon, igakahuya ko man kon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magbalik na nga nagasilak sa gahom sang akon Amay, kag kaupod ko ang balaan nga mga anghel.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, may mga tawo diri nga indi pa mapatay hasta makita nila ang paghari sang Dios nga magaabot nga may gahom.”
Pagkaligad sang anom ka adlaw, gindala ni Jesus sila ni Pedro, Santiago, kag Juan sa mataas nga bukid nga silahanon lang. Samtang nagatulok sila kay Jesus, nagbalhin ang iya dagway.
Ang iya bayo nagputi gid kag masilaw. Wala sing bisan sin-o diri sa kalibutan nga makapaputi pareho sadto.
Dayon nakita nila si Elias kag si Moises nga nagapakig-estorya kay Jesus.
Nagsiling si Pedro kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, maayo nga ari kami
Amo ini ang iya ginsiling kay indi siya kahibalo kon ano ang iya dapat ihambal tungod kay ginkulbaan gid sila.
Dayon may nag-abot nga panganod kag ginlikupan sila. Kag may nabatian sila nga tingog halin sa panganod nga nagasiling, “Amo ini ang akon hinigugma nga Anak. Pamatii ninyo siya!”
Sa gilayon nagtulok sila sa palibot, pero wala sila sing may nakita kundi si Jesus lang.
Gani wala gid nila ginpanugid ang mga natabo nga ato. Pero sang silahanon na lang, nagpinamangkutanay sila kon ano ang kahulugan sang iya ginsiling nga mabanhaw.
Nagpamangkot sila kay Jesus, “Ngaa bala nagasiling ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga kinahanglan mag-abot anay si Elias sa wala pa mag-abot ang Cristo sa wala pa mag-abot ang Cristo ?”
Pagbalik nila ni Jesus sa mga sumulunod nga nabilin, nakita nila nga madamo nga tawo ang nagatipon didto sa ila. Didto man ang pila ka manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga nagapakigbais sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus.
Pagkakita sang mga tawo kay Jesus natingala gid sila, gani nagdinalagan sila pakadto sa iya para abiabihon siya.
Dayon nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “Ano ang inyo ginabaisan?”
May isa ka tawo didto nga nagsabat, “Manunudlo, gindala ko diri sa imo ang akon bata nga lalaki kay ginagamhan siya sang espiritu nga nagapaapa sa iya.
Kon atakihon siya sang espiritu nagakatumba siya sa duta, nagabura ang iya baba, kag nagabagrot ang iya mga ngipon, pagkatapos nagatiskog siya dayon. Ginpangabay ko ang imo mga sumulunod nga tabugon nila ang espiritu pero indi sila makasarang.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “ Kamo nga mga tawo sa Kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon wala gid sing pagtuo! Hasta san-o pa bala ang akon pag-antos sa inyo? Dal-a ninyo diri ang bata.”
Gani gindala nila ang bata didto sa iya. Pagkakita sang espiritu kay Jesus, ginpakurog niya ang bata, gintumba kag ginpaligid sa duta nga nagabura ang iya baba.
Ginpamangkot ni Jesus ang amay sang bata, “San-o pa nga nagaamo sini ang bata?” Nagsabat ang amay, “Halin sang gamay pa siya.
Permi lang siya ginahaboy sa kalayo kag ginatagbong sa tubig sang malain nga espiritu para patyon. Pero kon may mahimo ka, kaluoyi kag buligi man kami!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ngaa nagasiling ka nga kon may mahimo ako? Ang tanan nga butang mahimo ko ko sa tawo nga nagatuo sa akon sa akon .”
Dayon nagsabat ang amay sang bata, “Nagatuo ako, pero buligi ako sa akon pagpangduhaduha.”
Pagkakita ni Jesus nga nagdinaguso na ang mga tawo pakadto sa iya, nagsiling siya sa mahigko nga espiritu, “Ikaw nga espiritu nga nagapaapa kag nagapabungol sa bata, ginamanduan ko ikaw nga magguwa sa iya kag indi na gid magbalik sa iya!”
Nagsinggit ang espiritu kag ginpakurog niya sing mabaskog ang bata kag nagguwa. Ang bata daw patay na, gani nagsiling ang kadam-an, “Patay na siya!”
Pero gin-uyatan ni Jesus ang kamot sang bata kag ginpabangon, kag nagtindog ang bata.
Sang pagsulod ni Jesus sa balay nga ila ginadayunan, nagpamangkot sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod sang silahanon na lang, “Ngaa bala indi namon matabog ang espiritu sa bata sa bata ?”
Nagsabat siya sa ila, “Ato nga klase sang espiritu sang espiritu mapaguwa lang paagi sa pangamuyo.”
Naghalin sila sa sadto nga lugar kag nag-agi sa Galilea. Indi niya luyag nga mahibaluan sang mga tawo nga didto siya,
kay nagatudlo siya sa iya mga sumulunod. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “ Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo itugyan sa mga tawo nga magapatay sa akon. Pero pagkatapos sang tatlo ka adlaw mabanhaw ako.”
Ang iya mga sumulunod wala makaintiendi kon ano ang iya buot silingon. Pero natahap sila nga magpamangkot sa iya.
Nag-abot sila sa Capernaum. Sang didto na sila sa balay, nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “Ano bala ang inyo ginabaisan sa dalan samtang nagalakat kamo?”
Pero naghipos lang sila tungod kay nagbinaisay sila kon sin-o gid sa ila ang labaw sa tanan.
Gani nagpungko si Jesus kag gintawag niya ang dose ka apostoles ka apostoles . Dayon nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kon sin-o sa inyo ang gusto nga mangin pangulo, kinahanglan magpaubos siya kag mangin suluguon sang tanan.”
Dayon nagkuha siya sang bata nga gamay kag ginbutang niya sa ila tunga. Ginsabak niya dayon ang bata kag nagsiling sa ila,
“Ang bisan sin-o nga nagabaton sa bata nga pareho sini tungod sa akon,
Nagsiling si Juan sa iya, “Manunudlo, nakakita kami sang isa ka tawo nga nagatabog sang mga demonyo sa imo ngalan.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus, “Pabay-i lang ninyo siya kay wala sing may nagahimo sang milagro sa akon ngalan nga maghambal man dayon sang malain kontra sa akon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga wala nagakontra sa aton nagadampig sa aton.
Sa pagkamatuod, ang bisan sin-o nga maghatag sa inyo sang bisan isa lang ka baso nga tubig tungod kay kamo iya ni Cristo, ina nga tawo magabaton gid sang iya balos.
“Pero ang bisan sin-o nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sining magagmay nga mga kabataan nga nagatuo sa akon, maayo pa sa iya nga higtan ang iya liog sang galingan nga bato kag itagbong siya sa dagat.
Kag kon ang imo mata amo ang kabangdanan sang imo pagpakasala, lukata ina! Mas maayo pa nga isa lang ang imo mata pero masakop ka sa paghari sang Dios sang sa duha ang imo mata pero ipilak ka man lang sa impyerno.
Ang mga ulod didto wala sing kamatayon kag ang kalayo wala nagakapatay.
“Kay pagaasinan ang tanan paagi sa kalayo.
Ang asin maayo, pero kon maglain ang iya sabor, wala na sing may mahimo para mapabalik pa ang iya sabor. Kag kon paano ang asin nagabulig sa aton, Kag kon paano ang asin nagabulig sa aton, dapat pareho man kamo sa asin nga nagabulig sa isa kag isa nga mangin maayo ang inyo relasyon.”
Dayon naghalin si Jesus sa Capernaum kag nagkadto sa mga lugar nga sakop sang Judea, kag nagtabok siya sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Madamo naman nga mga tawo ang nagtilipon didto sa iya kag gintudluan niya sila pareho sang masami niya nga ginahimo.
May mga Pariseo nga nagkadto man didto sa pagtilaw
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus paagi sa isa ka pamangkot paagi sa isa ka pamangkot , “Ano bala ang sugo sa inyo ni Moises?”
Nagsabat sila, “Nagtugot si Moises nga puwede bulagan sang lalaki ang iya asawa, basta makahimo lang siya sang kasulatan sang pagbulagay.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ginsulat ni Moises sa inyo ini nga sugo tungod nga matig-a ang inyo ulo.
Pero sang ginsuguran, sang pagtuga sa kalibutan, ‘ginhimo sang Dios ang tawo nga lalaki kag babayi.’
‘Amo ina ang rason nga bayaan sang lalaki ang iya amay kag iloy kag mag-upod sa iya asawa,
kag sila nga duha mangin isa.’
Gani indi dapat bulagon sang tawo ang gin-isa sang Dios.”
Pag-abot nila sa balay, nagpamangkot naman ang mga sumulunod parte sa sadto nga butang.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kon bulagan sang lalaki ang iya asawa kag magpangasawa sang iban, nagapanginbabayi siya kag nakasala sa iya una nga asawa.
Kag kon bulagan sang babayi ang iya bana kag magpamana sang iban, nagapanginlalaki siya.”
May mga tawo nga nagdala sang ila magagmay nga mga bata kay Jesus para tungtungan niya sang iya kamot kag bendisyunan kag bendisyunan . Pero ginsaway sila sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus.
Pagkakita ni Jesus sa natabo, nangakig siya kag nagsiling sa iya mga sumulunod, “Pabay-i lang ninyo ang mga bata nga magpalapit sa akon. Indi ninyo sila pagpunggi, kay ang mga pareho sa ila nasakop sa paghari sang Dios.
Sa pagkamatuod, ang bisan sin-o nga indi magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios pareho sang pagpasakop sang mga bata nga ini indi gid malakip sa paghari sang Dios.”
Dayon ginpangkugos niya ang mga bata, gintungtong niya ang iya kamot sa ila kag ginbendisyunan sila.
Sang manuglakat na si Jesus, may tawo nga nagdalagan palapit sa iya kag nagluhod. Dayon nagpamangkot ang tawo, “Maayo nga Manunudlo, ano bala ang akon himuon para maangkon ko ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ngaa nagasiling ka nga maayo ako? Wala gid sing bisan sin-o nga maayo kundi ang Dios lang.
Kon parte sa imo pamangkot, Kon parte sa imo pamangkot, nahibaluan mo naman ang ginasiling sang Kasuguan: ‘Indi ka magpatay, indi ka magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki, indi ka magpangawat, indi ka magsaksi sing butig, indi ka magpangdaya, tahuron mo ang imo amay kag iloy.’ ”
Nagsabat siya kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, ina tanan ginatuman ko halin sang bata pa ako.”
Gintulok siya ni Jesus nga may paghigugma kag ginsilingan, “Isa pa ka butang ang kulang sa imo. Pauli ka kag ibaligya ang imo mga pagkabutang, kag ang kuwarta ipanagtag mo sa mga imol. Sa sini nga paagi makaangkon ka sang manggad sa langit. Dayon magbalik ka kag magsunod sa akon.”
Nagkasubo gid ang tawo sang pagkabati niya sadto kag naghalin siya nga masinulub-on, kay madamo ang iya manggad.
Sang makahalin na ang tawo, Sang makahalin na ang tawo, nagpanulok-tulok si Jesus sa palibot kag nagsiling sa iya mga sumulunod, “Mabudlay gid para sa mga manggaranon nga magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios.”
Natingala ang mga sumulunod sa iya ginhambal. Gani nagpadayon siya sa pagsiling, “Mga anak, daw ano kabudlay ang magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios.
Natingala gid sila kag nagsiling, “Ti kon amo sina, sin-o na lang ang maluwas?”
Gintulok sila ni Jesus kag ginsilingan, “Kon sa tawo lang indi gid ini mahimo, pero indi ini mabudlay sa Dios, kay ang tanan nga butang mahimo niya.”
Nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Ti kami, ginbayaan namon ang tanan kag nagsunod sa imo.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, wala sing tawo nga nagbiya sa iya balay, mga utod, iloy, amay, mga bata, ukon mga duta tungod sa akon kag sa Maayong Balita,
nga indi makabaton sang madamo pa gid nga balos sa sini nga panahon: mga balay, mga utod, mga iloy, mga bata, mga duta, kag pati mga paghingabot; kag sa palaabuton makabaton man sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Samtang nagataklad sila pakadto sa Jerusalem, nagauna si Jesus sa ila. Ginakulbaan ang iya mga sumulunod, kag ginahadlukan gid ang iban nga nagasunod sa iya. Ginpain niya liwat ang iya dose ka apostoles ka apostoles kag ginsugiran niya sila kon ano ang matabo sa iya.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Pamati kamo! Nagapataklad kita sa Jerusalem kag ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo itugyan didto sa manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Sentensyahan nila ako nga patyon kag itugyan sa mga tawo nga indi Judio.
Yagutaon nila ako, duplaan, hanuton, kag dayon patyon. Pero pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw mabanhaw ako.”
Nagpalapit sa iya si Juan kag si Santiago nga mga anak ni Zebedee kag nagsiling, “Manunudlo, may pangayuon kuntani kami sa imo.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Ano ang inyo pangayuon sa akon?”
Nagsiling sila, “Kon maghari ka na, palihog palihog papungkua kami nga duha sa imo tupad; ang isa sa tuo kag ang isa sa wala.”
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Wala kamo kahibalo kon ano ang inyo ginapangayo. Masarangan bala ninyo ang mga pag-antos nga antuson ko? Kag masarangan man bala ninyo ang mga kalisod nga pagaagyan ko?”
Nagsabat sila, “Huo, masarangan namon.” Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Masarangan ninyo gani,
pero indi ako ang nagapili kon sin-o ang mapungko sa akon tuo kag sa akon wala, kay may ara na nga gintigan-an para sini.”
Pagkabati sang napulo ka sumulunod kon ano ang ila ginpangayo, nangakig gid sila kay Santiago kag kay Juan.
Kay bisan pa gani ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo wala nagkadto diri sa kalibutan para alagaran, kundi mag-alagad kag maghatag sang akon kabuhi para matubos ang madamo nga tawo.”
Nag-abot sila ni Jesus ni Jesus sa Jerico. Kag sang nagapaguwa na si Jesus sa sini nga banwa kaupod sang iya mga sumulunod kag sang madamo nga tawo, may isa ka bulag didto nga nagapungko kag nagapakilimos sa higad sang dalan. Siya si Bartimeus nga anak ni Timeus.
Pagkabati niya nga nagaagi si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret, nagsinggit siya, “Jesus, kaliwat ni David,
Madamo nga tawo didto ang nagsaway sa iya nga maghipos. Pero gintuduhan pa gid gani niya singgit, “Kaliwat ni David, kaluoyi ako!”
Nagpundo si Jesus kag nagsiling, “Dal-a ninyo siya diri sa akon.” Gani gintawag nila ang bulag, kag nagsiling sila, “Magkalipay ka, tindog kay ginatawag ka ni Jesus.”
Ginhaboy niya ang iya pangtabon nga panapton kag nagdali-dali siya palapit kay Jesus.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ano bala ang imo gusto nga himuon ko sa imo?” Nagsabat ang bulag, “Manunudlo, gusto ko nga makakita.”
Dayon ginsilingan siya ni Jesus, “Lakat ka; ang imo pagtuo nag-ayo
Sang malapit na sila ni Jesus sa Jerusalem kag nakaabot na sa mga baryo sang mga baryo sang Betfage kag Betania, sa Bukid sang mga Olibo, ginpauna ni Jesus ang duha niya ka sumulunod kag
ginsilingan, “Mag-una kamo didto sa sunod nga baryo. Pagsulod ninyo, may makita kamo nga bataon nga donkey nga nahigot. Wala pa gid ini masakyi. Hubari ninyo kag dal-a diri.
Kon may magpamangkot sa inyo, ‘Ngaa ginahimo ninyo ina?’ sabton ninyo, ‘Kinahanglan ini sang Ginoo kag iuli man ini dayon.’ ”
Gani naglakat sila, kag pag-abot nila didto sa baryo pag-abot nila didto sa baryo nakita nila ang bataon nga donkey sa higad sang dalan nga nahigot sa puwertahan sang isa ka balay. Sang ginahubaran na nila ang donkey,
ginpamangkot sila sang mga tawo nga nagatilindog didto, “Hoy, ano ang inyo ginahimo dira? Ngaa ginahubaran ninyo ang donkey?”
Kag ginsabat nila ang mga tawo suno sa ginsiling ni Jesus. Gani ginpabay-an sila sang mga tawo.
Pagkatapos sadto gindala sang duha ka sumulunod ang donkey kay Jesus. Pag-abot didto, ginhapinan nila ini sang ila mga panapton kag ginsakyan dayon ni Jesus.
Madamo nga tawo ang naghumlad sang ila mga panapton sa dalan, kag ang iban nagladlad sang mga sanga nga ila gintapas halin sa uma bilang pagpadungog kay Jesus bilang pagpadungog kay Jesus .
“Ginapakamaayo sang Ginoo ang iya pinadala!”
Pag-abot ni Jesus sa Jerusalem, nagkadto siya sa templo. Nagpanan-aw tan-aw siya sa tanan nga butang didto. Pagkatapos, tungod nga madali na lang magsalop ang adlaw, nagguwa siya kag nagkadto sa Betania upod sa iya iya dose ka apostoles ka apostoles .
Pagkaaga, sang paghalin nila sa Betania pabalik sa Jerusalem pabalik sa Jerusalem , gin-gutom si Jesus.
May nakita siya nga kahoy nga higera nga madabong ang dahon. Gani ginkadtuan niya kon may bunga. Pero wala siya sing may nakita nga bunga kundi puro lang dahon, kay indi pa ato tion nga inugpamunga.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa higera, “Wala na sing may makakaon sang imo bunga hasta san-o!” Nabatian sang iya mga sumulunod ang iya ginhambal.
Pag-abot nila sa Jerusalem, nagkadto si Jesus sa templo. Gintabog niya ang mga tawo nga nagapamakal kag nagabaligya didto. Ginpamaliskad niya ang mga lamisa sang mga manugbaylo sang kuwarta kag ang mga pulungkuan sang mga manugbaligya sang mga pating nga inughalad nga inughalad .
Indi siya magtugot nga manglaktod ang mga tawo sa templo nga nagadala sang ila mga inugbaligya.
Dayon gintudluan niya ang mga tawo didto sa templo. Siling niya, “Indi bala nga nagsiling ang Dios ang Dios sa Kasulatan, ‘Ang akon balay tawgon nga balay nga palangamuyuan para sa tanan nga nasyon’
Ang ginhimo nga ato ni Jesus Ang ginhimo nga ato ni Jesus nabatian sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Gani nagpangita sila sang paagi para patyon siya. Pero hinadlukan sila sa iya kay natingala gid ang mga tawo sa iya mga ginapanudlo.
Sang sirom na, nagguwa si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa siyudad.
Pagkaaga, sang nagapabalik sila pa-Jerusalem, didto naman sila nag-agi sa kahoy nga higera, kag nakita nila nga nalaya ini kag patay na halin sa gamot.
Nadumduman ni Pedro ang natabo. Gani nagsiling siya kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, tan-awa ang kahoy nga higera nga imo ginpakamalaot! Nalaya na!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Magtuo kamo sa Dios!
Ang matuod, kon may pagtuo kamo, sarang kamo makasiling sa sini nga bukid, ‘Maghalin ka kag magsaylo sa dagat,’ kag kon wala kamo nagapangduhaduha sa inyo tagipusuon kundi nagatuo nga ini matabo, matuman ina suno sa inyo ginhambal.
Gani ginasugiran ko kamo nga bisan ano ang inyo pangayuon sa pangamuyo, magtuo kamo nga nabaton na ninyo, kag mabaton gid ninyo.
Kag kon nagapangamuyo kamo, patawara ninyo anay ang mga nakahimo sing sala sa inyo, para ang inyo mga sala patawaron man sang inyo Amay nga ara sa langit.
Kay kon wala kamo nagapatawad sa iban, indi man kamo pagpatawaron sang inyo Amay nga ara sa langit.”
Pag-abot nila sa Jerusalem, nagbalik si Jesus sa templo. Kag samtang nagalakat siya sa ugsaran sang ugsaran sang templo, nagpalapit sa iya ang manugdumala nga mga pari, mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Nagpamangkot sila kay Jesus, “Ano bala ang imo awtoridad sa paghimo sang mga butang nga imo ginahimo diri sa templo? Sin-o ang naghatag sa imo sang awtoridad sa paghimo sini?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Mamangkot man ako sa inyo. Sabton anay ninyo ako, pagkatapos sabton ko man kamo kon ano ang akon awtoridad sa paghimo sini nga mga butang.
Nagbinaisay sila kon ano ang ila isabat, “Kon magsiling kita nga halin sa Dios, masiling siya, ‘Ti ngaa wala kamo nagpati kay Juan?’
Pero kon magsiling kita nga halin sa tawo, mangakig sa aton ang mga tawo mangakig sa aton ang mga tawo .” (Hinadlukan sila sa mga tawo kay nagapati ang mga tawo nga si Juan propeta sang Dios sang Dios .)
Dayon naghambal si Jesus sa ila paagi sa mga paanggid, “May isa ka tawo nga may duta nga ginpatamnan niya sang ubas. Ginpakudalan niya ini, kag nagpahimo siya sang buho sa dako nga bato para pulugaan sang ubas. Nagpatindog man siya sang isa ka balantayan. Pagkatapos ginpaagsahan niya ang iya talamnan kag naglakat sa malayo nga lugar.
Sang tion na sang pagpangharvest sang ubas, ginsugo niya ang isa ka ulipon sa mga agsador
Pero pag-abot didto sang ulipon, gindakop siya sang mga agsador kag ginbunal, kag ginpapuli nga wala gid sing dala.
Ginpadala naman sang tag-iya ang isa pa ka ulipon, pero ginpakahuy-an nila kag ginlampusan sa ulo.
Nagpadala pa gid siya sang isa pa ka ulipon, kag ila ini ginpatay. Madamo pa gid ang ginpadala sang tag-iya. Ang iban ginbunal nila, kag ang iban ginpatay.
Sa katapusan, wala na siya sang ulipon nga ipadala. Gani ginpadala niya ang iya pinalangga nga anak. Kay naghunahuna siya nga tahuron nila ang iya anak.
Gani gindakop nila siya kag ginpatay. Ginhaboy nila ang iya bangkay sa guwa sang talamnan sang ubas.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Ti ano bala ang himuon sang tag-iya sang talamnan? Sigurado gid nga kadtuan niya ang mga agsador kag pamatyon. Dayon paagsahan niya sa iban ang iya talamnan.
amo ang nangin pundasyon nga bato.
Nahibaluan sang manugdumala nga mga Judio nga sila gid ang ginatumod sang sadto nga paanggid. Gani gusto nila nga dakpon si Jesus, pero nahadlok sila sa mga tawo. Gani ginpabay-an na lang nila siya, kag naglakat sila.
Ginsugo nila ang pila ka Pariseo kag pila ka miyembro sang partido ni Herodes sa pagdakop-dakop kay Jesus paagi sa iya paghambal para maakusar nila siya para maakusar nila siya .
Gani nagkadto sila kay Jesus kag nagpamangkot, “Manunudlo, nahibaluan namon nga matuod ang imo ginasugid. Kay wala ka nagapadala-dala sa mga tawo bisan sin-o pa sila, kundi kon ano ang kamatuoran parte sa kabubut-on sang Dios sa mga tawo amo gid ang imo ginatudlo. Ano bala sa imo, Ano bala sa imo, husto bala nga kita nga mga Judio kita nga mga Judio magbayad sang buhis sa Emperador sang Roma? Dapat bala kita magbayad ukon indi?”
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus nga nagapakuno-kuno sila, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ngaa bala ginatilawan ninyo ako nga dakpon paagi sa sini nga pamangkot? Abi dal-i ninyo ako diri sang kuwarta
Gani gindal-an nila siya. Dayon nagpamangkot siya sa ila, “Kay sin-o bala ini hitsura kag ngalan?” Nagsabat sila, “Iya sang Emperador.”
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ti kundi ihatag ninyo sa Emperador ang iya sang Emperador, kag sa Dios ang iya sang Dios.” Kag natingala gid sila sa iya.
Dayon may mga Saduceo nga nagpalapit kay Jesus. Ini nga mga tawo wala nagapati nga may pagkabanhaw.
Nagpamangkot sila, “Manunudlo, suno sa ginsulat ni Moises sa aton, kon mapatay ang lalaki nga wala sila bata sang iya asawa, dapat ang iya utod ang magpangasawa sa nabalo para makapabata siya para sa iya utod nga napatay nga napatay .
Karon, may pito ka mag-ulutod nga lalaki. Ang kamagulangan nagpangasawa, kag napatay nga wala sing bata.
Gani ang balo ginpangasawa sang sunod nga utod. Ini siya napatay man nga wala sila sang bata. Gani ang balo ginpangasawa naman sang ikatlo kag amo man ang natabo,
hasta sa ikapito. Nagkalamatay sila tanan nga wala gid nakapabata sa sadto nga babayi. Sang ulihi ang babayi napatay man.
Karon, kon mag-abot na ang pagkabanhaw, kay sin-o gid siya nga asawa, kay sila nga pito nagpangasawa sa iya?”
Kay kon mabanhaw na ang mga patay, indi na sila mag-asawahay, tungod nga pareho na sila sang mga anghel sa langit.
Kon parte sa mga patay nga mabanhaw, wala bala kamo nakabasa sang sinulatan ni Moises parte sa nagadabadaba nga kahoy-kahoy, sa diin nagsiling ang Dios kay Moises, ‘Ako ang Dios ni Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob’
Ti buhi sila, kay Ti buhi sila, kay ang Dios indi Dios sang mga patay kundi Dios sang mga buhi. Gani sala gid kamo.”
May isa ka manunudlo sang Kasuguan didto nga nakabati sang ila diskusyon. Nabatian niya nga maayo ang sabat ni Jesus. Gani nagpalapit siya kag nagpamangkot man, “Ano gid bala ang labing importante nga sugo?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Ang labing importante nga sugo amo ini: ‘Pamati, katawhan sang katawhan sang Israel! Ang Ginoo nga aton Dios amo lang ang Ginoo.
Gani higugmaon mo ang Ginoo nga imo Dios sa bug-os mo nga tagipusuon, sa bug-os mo nga kalag, sa bug-os mo nga hunahuna kag sa bug-os mo nga kusog.’
Ang sunod nga labing importante nga sugo amo ini: ‘Higugmaon mo ang imo isigkatawo pareho sang paghigugma mo sa imo kaugalingon.’
Nagsiling ang manunudlo sang Kasuguan sa iya, “Husto ka manunudlo! Matuod ang imo ginasiling nga may isa lang ka Dios kag wala na sing iban pa.
Kag ang paghigugma sa iya sa bug-os nga tagipusuon, sa bug-os nga hunahuna, kag sa bug-os nga kusog, kag ang paghigugma sa aton isigkatawo pareho sang paghigugma naton sa aton kaugalingon mas importante sang sa tanan nga halad nga ginasunog kag iban pa nga mga halad.”
Pagkabati ni Jesus nga husto gid ang iya mga sabat, nagsiling siya sa iya, “Malapit ka na nga masakop sa paghari sang Dios.” Halin sadto wala na gid sing may nangahas nga magpamangkot kay Jesus.
Sang nagapanudlo si Jesus sa templo nagsiling siya, “Ngaa nagasiling ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga ang Cristo kaliwat lang lang ni David?
Naluyag magpamati kay Jesus ang madamo gid nga mga tawo.
Sa iya mga pagpanudlo nagsiling siya, “Mag-andam kamo sa mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga gusto maglagaw-lagaw nga nagasuksok sang espesyal nga bayo.
Sa mga simbahan ukon sa mga punsyon, ginapili gid nila ang mga pulungkuan nga para sa mga dungganon.
Ginaubos nila kuha ang mga pagkabutang sang mga balo nga babayi, kag ginatabon-tabunan lang nila ang ila ginahimo paagi sa malawig nga mga pagpangamuyo. Ini sila magabaton sang mas dako nga silot.”
Nagpungko si Jesus sa tupad sang ginahulugan sang kuwarta didto sa templo kag ginpanilagan niya ang mga tawo nga nagahulog sang ila mga kuwarta. Madamo nga manggaranon ang nagahulog sang dalagko nga mga kantidad.
May nagpalapit nga isa ka imol nga balo nga babayi kag naghulog sang duha lang ka sinsilyo.
Gintawag ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagsiling sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, mas madamo ang ginhulog sang imol nga balo sa ginahulugan sang kuwarta sang sa tanan nga naghatag.
Kay sila madamo ang ila kuwarta kag ang ila ginhatag baliwala lang sa ila; pero ang balo, bisan imol siya, ginhatag niya ang tanan nga iya ginasaligan para mabuhi.”
Sang nagapaguwa na si Jesus sa templo, ang isa sang iya mga sumulunod nagsiling, “Manunudlo, tan-awa bala ini nga templo. Ang gin-gamit nga mga bato dalagko kag katahom sang pagpatindog sini.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ini nga templo nga ginhimo sa dalagko nga mga bato magakalaguba sa palaabuton kag wala gid sing may mabilin nga mga bato nga nagasalampaw.”
Sang nagapungko si Jesus didto sa Bukid sang mga Olibo nga nagaatubang sa templo, nagpalapit si Pedro, si Santiago, si Juan, kag si Andres kag nagpamangkot sa iya nga silahanon lang.
Siling nila, Siling nila, “Sugiri kami kon san-o matabo ang mga butang nga imo ginsiling? Kag ano bala ang tanda nga madali na lang ini tanan matabo?”
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Mag-andam kamo nga wala sing may makapatalang sa inyo.
Kay madamo ang magaabot kag magasiling nga sila amo ako, kag madamo ang ila mapatalang.
Kon makabati kamo sang mga gira nga malapit sa inyo kag makabalita kamo nga didto sa malayo nagagira man, indi kamo magkahadlok. Kinahanglan gid nga matabo ini, pero indi pa ini ang katapusan.
Magailinaway ang mga nasyon kag magailinaway ang mga ginharian. May magaabot nga mga linog sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar kag may magaabot nga mga gutom. Pero ini nga mga butang umpisa pa lang sang mga kabudlayan nga magaabot.
“Mag-andam kamo, kay pagadakpon kamo kag dal-on sa mga hukmanan. Pagahanuton kamo sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio. Magaatubang kamo sa mga gobernador kag sa mga hari tungod sang inyo pagsunod sa akon. Kag didto magasugid kamo sang Maayong Balita sa ila.
Sa wala pa mag-abot ang katapusan, Sa wala pa mag-abot ang katapusan, kinahanglan iwali anay ang Maayong Balita sa tanan nga nasyon.
Kon dal-on kamo sa korte sa korte kag imbistigaron, indi kamo magpalibog kon ano ang inyo isabat, kay kon sa oras nga kinahanglan kamo maghambal, ihambal lang ninyo ang ginapahambal sa inyo sang Espiritu Santo sang Espiritu Santo . Kay indi kamo ang magahambal kundi ang Espiritu Santo paagi sa inyo paagi sa inyo .
Sa sina nga mga inadlaw, Sa sina nga mga inadlaw, may mga tawo nga magapapatay sang ila mga utod. May mga amay nga magapapatay sang ila mga anak. Kag may mga anak nga magakontra sa ila mga ginikanan, kag ipapatay nila sila.
“Makita ninyo ang makangilil-ad nga butang nga mangin kabangdanan nga pabay-an ang templo ang templo .
Ang tawo nga matabuan nga tawo nga matabuan nga ara sa guwa sang iya balay indi na magsulod pa sa pagkuha sang bisan ano.
Magpangamuyo kamo nga indi ini matabo sa tigtulugnaw.
Kay sa sina nga mga inadlaw magaabot ang pag-antos nga wala pa gid matabo halin sang pagtuga sang Dios sang kalibutan hasta subong, kag wala sing may matabo pa nga pareho sina hasta san-o.
Kon ina nga mga inadlaw wala ginpalip-ot sang Ginoo wala gid sing may mabilin nga tawo. Pero tungod sang iya kaluoy sa iya kaluoy sa iya mga pinili, ginpalip-ot niya ina nga mga inadlaw.
“Kon may magsiling sa inyo, ‘Ari na ang Cristo!’ ukon ‘Didto siya!’ indi kamo magpati.
Gani magbantay kamo! Ginasugid ko na sa inyo nga daan ini nga mga butang sa wala pa matabo.
“Pagkatapos sang pag-antos sa sina nga tiyempo, ang adlaw magadulom, ang bulan indi na magsanag,
kag ang mga bituon magakalahulog. Ang mga butang
Dayon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo makita sa mga panganod nga nagabalik diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan nga may puwerte nga gahom kag kadungganan.
Suguon ko ang akon mga anghel sa pagtipon sang akon mga pinili halin sa tanan nga lugar sang kalibutan.
Sa amo man nga bagay, kon makita ninyo nga nagakalatabo na ini nga mga butang, mahibaluan ninyo nga madali na lang ako mag-abot.
Gani magbantay kamo kag mag-andam, kay wala kamo kahibalo kon san-o ako maabot.
Pareho man ini sa tawo nga naglakat sa malayo nga lugar. Antes siya maghalin sa iya balay, ginbilinan niya sang mga ulobrahon ang tagsa niya ka ulipon kag ginhambalan ang guwardya sa puwertahan nga magbantay sa iya nga pag-abot sa iya nga pag-abot .
Gani magbantay kamo, kay wala kamo kahibalo kon san-o mabalik ang tag-iya sang balay; mahimo nga sa hapon, sa tungang gab-i, sa kaagahon ukon sa pagbutlak sang adlaw.
Basi kon sa iya pagbalik maabtan niya kamo nga nagakatulog.
Ang ginasiling ko sa inyo ginasiling ko sa tanan: Magbantay kamo!”
Duha na lang ka adlaw kag magaabot ang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel kag Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok. Ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan may tuyo nga patyon si Jesus. Gani nagapangita sila sang paagi kon paano nila madakop si Jesus nga indi mahibaluan sang mga tawo.
Sang didto si Jesus sa Betania, samtang nagakaon siya sa balay ni Simon nga sadto anay sadto anay may delikado nga balatian sa panit,
May mga tawo didto nga nangakig kag nagsiling, “Ngaa bala ginausikan lang niya ang pahamot?
Sarang kuntani ina mabaligya sa kantidad nga bali isa ka tuig nga suweldo kag ang bili ihatag sa mga imol.” Kag gin-akigan nila ang babayi.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa ginahilabtan ninyo siya? Pabay-i lang ninyo siya. Maayo ining iya ginhimo sa akon.
Ang mga imol permi ninyo makaupod kag sarang kamo makabulig sa ila sa bisan ano nga oras nga gusto ninyo, pero ako indi ninyo permi makaupod.
Ini nga babayi naghimo sang iya masarangan para sa akon. Ginbubuan niya sang pahamot ang akon lawas bilang pagpreparar sa akon lubong.
Si Judas Iscariote
Pagkabati sang manugdumala nga mga pari kon ano ang katuyuan ni Judas nalipay gid sila kag nagpromisa sila sa paghatag sa iya sang kuwarta. Kag halin sadto nagpangita siya sing kahigayunan kon paano niya matugyan si Jesus sa ila.
Nag-abot ang una nga adlaw sang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok. Amo ini ang adlaw nga ginahalad ang mga karnero nga ginakaon para sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Gani nagpamangkot ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus sa iya, “Sa diin ang imo gusto nga magpreparar kami sang panyapon sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel?”
Ginsugo niya ang iya duha ka sumulunod. Siling niya, “Kadto kamo sa siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem . Pag-abot ninyo didto may masugata sa inyo nga tawo nga nagadala sang banga nga may tubig. Sunda ninyo siya
kon diin nga balay siya masulod. Kag magsiling kamo sa tagbalay, ‘Nagapamangkot ang Manunudlo kon diin ang kuwarto nga pagakaunan niya upod sang iya mga sumulunod sa pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.’
Ipakita niya sa inyo ang malapad nga kuwarto sa ibabaw nga kompleto sang kagamitan kag preparado na. Didto kamo maghimos sang aton panyapon.”
Naglakat ang mga sumulunod, kag pag-abot nila sa siyudad nakita nila ang tanan suno sa ginsiling ni Jesus sa ila. Kag ginpreparar nila didto ang panyapon para sa piesta.
Sang sirom na, nag-abot si Jesus kag ang iya iya dose ka apostoles ka apostoles .
Sang nagakaon na sila sa lamisa, nagsiling si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, ang isa sa inyo nga kaupod ko diri sa pagkaon magatraidor sa akon.”
Nagkasubo gid sila kag kada isa sa ila nagpamangkot sa iya, “Indi ako, di bala?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ang magatraidor sa akon isa sa inyo nga dose—ang nagasawsaw sang tinapay sang tinapay sa yahong upod sa akon.
Samtang nagakaon sila, nagkuha si Jesus sang tinapay. Ginpasalamatan niya sa Dios sa Dios kag ginpamihak-pihak. Dayon ginhatag niya sa iya mga sumulunod kag nagsiling, “Kauna ninyo; amo ini ang akon lawas.”
Pagkatapos nagkuha siya sang ilimnon, nagpasalamat sa Dios, kag ginhatag sa ila. Kag sila tanan nag-inom.
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Amo ini ang akon dugo nga iula para sa madamo nga tawo. Ini nagapamatuod nga may bag-o na nga kasugtanan ang Dios sa mga tawo.
Sa pagkamatuod, indi na ako mag-inom liwat sang ilimnon nga halin sa ubas hasta sa adlaw nga magainom ako sang bag-o nga klase sang ilimnon sa paghari sang Dios.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Tanan kamo magabiya sa akon, kay nagsiling ang Dios ang Dios sa Kasulatan, ‘Patyon ko ang manugbantay sang mga karnero, kag magaalaplaag ang mga karnero.’
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Sa pagkamatuod, sa sini nga gab-i, sa wala pa makapamalo ang manok sing makaduha, ipanginwala mo ako sing tatlo ka beses.”
Pero nag-insister pa gid si Pedro nga nagasiling, “Indi ko gid ikaw ipanginwala bisan patyon pa nila ako upod sa imo.” Amo man ang ginsiling sang tanan nga sumulunod.
Dayon nagkadto sila sa lugar nga ginatawag Getsemane. Pag-abot nila didto, Pag-abot nila didto, nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Magpungko kamo diri samtang nagapangamuyo ako.”
Gindala niya sila ni Pedro, Santiago, kag Juan sa ulo-unhan sa ulo-unhan . Natublag kag nagpangalisod gid si Jesus.
Kag nagsiling siya sa ila, “Daw sa mapatay ako sa kalisod. Pabilin kamo diri kag magpulaw.”
Dayon nagkadto pa gid siya sa ulo-unhan, nagluhod siya sa duta kag nagpangamuyo nga kon mahimo ipaiway lang ang pag-antos nga iya ginaatubang.
Nagpangamuyo siya, “Amay, ang tanan nga butang mahimo mo. Gani ilikaw mo ini nga pag-antos nga nagaabot sa akon. Pero indi ang akon luyag ang dapat matuman kundi ang imo.”
Pagbalik niya sa iya tatlo ka sumulunod, sa iya tatlo ka sumulunod, naabtan niya sila nga nagakatulog. Nagsiling siya kay Pedro, “Simon, nagakatulog ka bala? Indi ka bala makapulaw bisan isa lang ka oras?
Naglakat liwat si Jesus sa ulo-unhan kag nagpangamuyo. Amo man gihapon ang iya pangamuyo.
Pagkatapos nagbalik siya liwat sa iya mga sumulunod kag naabtan naman niya sila nga nagakatulog, kay natuyo gid sila. Kag sang ginpukaw niya sila, nahuya sila Kag sang ginpukaw niya sila, nahuya sila kag indi sila kahibalo kon ano ang ila isabat sa iya.
Sa ikatlo nga pagbalik niya sa ila nagsiling siya, “Nagakatulog pa bala kamo gihapon kag nagapahuway-huway? Husto na ina! Amo na ini ang tion nga ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo itugyan sa mga makasasala.
Dali na! Ari na ang tawo nga magatraidor sa akon.”
Samtang nagahambal pa si Jesus nag-abot si Judas nga isa sa dose ka apostoles ka apostoles . Kaupod niya ang madamo nga tawo nga may dala nga mga espada kag mga inuglampos. Ginsugo sila sang manugdumala nga mga pari, mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Nakasiling na nga daan ang traidor nga si Judas nga si Judas sa mga manugdakop kon ano ang iya senyales: “Ang tawo nga akon halukan amo ang inyo ginapangita. Dakpa ninyo siya kag dal-a nga ginaguwardyahan gid sing maayo.”
Gani pag-abot ni Judas, nagderetso siya kay Jesus kag nagsiling, “Manunudlo!” Kag ginhalukan niya siya.
Dayon gindakop nila si Jesus.
Pero ang isa sang mga kaupod ni Jesus naggabot sang iya espada kag ginlabo niya ang ulipon sang pangulo nga pari kag nautod ang iya dulunggan.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa mga nagdakop sa iya, “Ano, tulisan bala ako nga kinahanglan gid nga magdala pa kamo sang mga espada kag mga inuglampos sa pagdakop sa akon?
Adlaw-adlaw didto ako sa templo nga nagatudlo kag kamo didto man. Ti ngaa wala ninyo ako pagdakpa? Pero kinahanglan nga matabo ini para matuman ang mga nasulat sa Kasulatan parte sa akon parte sa akon .”
Dayon ginbayaan siya sang iya mga sumulunod kag nagpalagyo sila tanan.
May isa ka pamatan-on nga lalaki didto nga nagsunod kay Jesus nga nagapanampi lang sang tela nga linen. Gindakop siya sang mga soldado,
ugaling nanginpadlos siya kag nagpalagyo nga hublas, kay nahawiran nila ang iya ginatampi.
Gindala nila si Jesus sa balay sang balay sang pangulo nga pari. Nagtilipon didto ang manugdumala nga mga pari, ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan.
Si Pedro nagsunod man, pero malayo-layo ang iya antad kay Jesus. Nagsulod siya sa ugsaran sang balay sang pangulo nga pari kag nagpungko upod sa mga guwardya para magpainit-init malapit sa kalayo.
Karon, ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang tanan nga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio nagpangita sang mga ebidensya kontra kay Jesus para ipapatay nila siya, pero wala gid sila sing may nakita.
Madamo ang nagtestigo sang butig kontra sa iya pero wala nagsinanto ang ila mga sugid.
May iban pa gid didto nga nagtestigo sang butig kontra kay Jesus. Nagsiling sila,
“Nabatian namon siya nga nagsiling, ‘Gub-on ko ini nga templo nga ginpatindog sang tawo, kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw patindugon ko ang lain nga templo nga indi tawo ang magahimo.’ ”
Pero ang ila mga sugid wala nagsinanto.
Nagtindog sa tunga ang pangulo nga pari kag nagpamangkot kay Jesus, “Wala ka bala sing isabat sa sini nga mga akusasyon kontra sa imo?”
Wala gid nagsabat si Jesus. Gani ginpamangkot siya liwat sang pangulo nga pari, “Ikaw bala ang Cristo nga Anak sang Dalayawon nga Dios nga Dios ?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Huo, ako matuod, kag ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo makita ninyo nga nagapungko sa tuo sang Makagagahom nga Dios nga Dios , kag makita man ninyo ako sa mga panganod sa kalangitan nga nagabalik diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan .”
Pagkabati sadto sang pangulo nga pari, gin-gisi niya ang iya bayo sa kaakig sa kaakig kag nagsiling, “Indi na kinahanglan sang mga testigo!
Nabatian ninyo ang pag-insulto niya sa Dios niya sa Dios . Ano bala sa inyo?” Kag ginsentensyahan nila siya nga patyon.
Ang iban sa ila nagdupla kay Jesus. Ginbuta-butahan nila siya kag ginsumbag. Dayon nagsiling sila, “Pakta abi kon sin-o ang nagsumbag sa imo?” Pagkatapos ginkuha siya sang mga guwardya kag sige ang ila tampa sa iya.
Sang si Pedro didto pa sa ugsaran, nag-agi ang isa sa mga babayi nga suluguon sang pangulo nga pari.
Pagkakita niya kay Pedro nga nagapainit-init malapit sa kalayo malapit sa kalayo , ginhimutaran niya siya kag nagsiling, “Kaupod ka man ni Jesus nga taga-Nazaret.”
Pero nagpanginwala siya nga nagasiling, “Wala ako kahibalo kon ano ang imo ginahambal.” Dayon nagkadto siya sa puwertahan paguwa. Sa sadto gid nga oras nagpamalo ang manok.
Didto nakita naman siya sang suluguon nga babayi, kag nagsiling siya liwat sa mga tawo didto, “Ini nga tawo isa sang mga kaupod ni Jesus.”
Pero nagpanginwala naman si Pedro. Dugay-dugay nagsiling ang mga tawo didto, “Kaupod ka gid niya kay taga-Galilea ka man.”
Pero nagpanumpa gid si Pedro nga nagasiling, “Bisan mapatay pa ako, wala gid ako kakilala sa tawo nga inyo ginasiling.”
Dayon nagpamalo naman ang manok, kag nadumduman ni Pedro ang ginsiling ni Jesus sa iya, “Sa wala pa makapamalo ang manok sing makaduha, ipanginwala mo ako sing tatlo ka beses.” Kag naghilibion gid siya.
Aga pa gid sang sunod nga adlaw, nag-meeting ang manugdumala nga mga pari kaupod ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag ang tanan nga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio. Gin-gapos nila si Jesus kag gindala didto kay Gobernador Gobernador Pilato
Ginpamangkot siya ni Pilato, “Ikaw bala ang hari sang mga Judio?” Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ginasiling mo.”
Madamo ang mga akusasyon sang manugdumala nga mga pari kontra kay Jesus.
Gani ginpamangkot siya liwat ni Pilato, “Wala ka bala sing isabat sa mga akusasyon nga ina? Madamo gid ang ila akusasyon kontra sa imo.”
Pero wala gid nagsabat si Jesus, gani natingala gid si Pilato.
Kinabatasan ni Pilato nga kada Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel sang Paglabay sang Anghel nagahilway siya sang isa ka priso nga ginapangayo sang mga tawo.
May isa ka priso didto nga si Barabas. Ini nga tawo ginpriso kaupod sadtong mga nakapatay sang pagrebelde nila kontra sa gobyerno.
Madamo nga tawo ang nagpalapit kay Pilato kag nagpangayo nga himuon niya liwat sa sadto nga tuig ang kinabatasan niya nga ginahimo.
Nagpamangkot siya sa ila, “Gusto bala ninyo nga buy-an ko ang hari sang mga Judio?”
Nahibaluan ni Pilato nga nahisa ang manugdumala nga mga pari, amo gani nga gin-akusar nila si Jesus sa iya.
Pero ginsutsot sang manugdumala nga mga pari ang mga tawo nga si Barabas lang ang ila pangayuon nga buy-an kag indi si Jesus.
Ginpamangkot ni Pilato ang mga tawo, “Ano ang akon himuon sa tawo nga inyo ginasiling nga hari sang mga Judio?”
Nagsinggit sila, “Ilansang siya sa krus!”
Nagsiling si Pilato sa ila, “Ngaa, ano bala nga sala ang iya nahimo?” Pero gintuduhan pa gid gani nila singgit, “Ilansang siya sa krus!”
Gani tungod nga gusto ni Pilato nga paayunan ang mga tawo, ginbuy-an niya si Barabas. Pero si Jesus ginpahanot niya kag gintugyan sa mga soldado sa mga soldado para ilansang sa krus.
Gindala sang mga soldado si Jesus sa sulod sang palasyo sang gobernador kag ginpatipon didto ang bilog nga batalyon sang mga soldado.
Pagkatapos ginsukluban nila si Jesus sang kapa nga granate
Dayon nagsaludo sila sa iya nga nagasiling, “Mabuhay ang Hari sang mga Judio!”
Kag sige ang ila lampos sang bulobaston sa iya ulo kag ginaduplaan pa nila siya. Ginluhod-luhuran nila siya kag ginsulusimba.
Sa tapos sang ila pagyaguta, gin-uba nila ang kapa nga granate kag ginsuksukan nila siya liwat liwat sang iya bayo. Dayon gindala nila siya sa guwa sang siyudad sang siyudad para ilansang sa krus.
Sang nagalakat na sila, Sang nagalakat na sila, nasugata nila ang isa ka tawo nga halin sa uma. (Ang iya ngalan amo si Simon nga taga-Cyrene, nga amay ni Alexander kag ni Rufus.) Ginpilit nila siya nga magpas-an sang krus ni Jesus.
Dayon gindala nila si Jesus sa lugar nga ginatawag Golgota (nga kon sayuron, lugar sang bagol).
Pag-abot nila didto ginhatagan nila si Jesus sang bino nga may simbog nga mira,
Dayon ginlansang nila siya sa krus, kag ginpartida nila ang iya mga bayo paagi sa paggabot-gabot, para mahibaluan kon ano nga parte ang makuha sang kada isa.
Mga alas nuebe sadto sang aga sang ginlansang nila si Jesus sa krus.
ang hari sang mga judio. ang hari sang mga judio.
Sa sini nga paagi natuman ang nasulat sa Kasulatan nga nagasiling, “Ginkabig siya nga isa sa mga kriminal.”
Ang mga tawo nga nagaalagi didto nagalungo-lungo nga nagainsulto kag nagayaguta kay Jesus. Siling nila, “Gali ha! Ikaw nga nagasiling nga gub-on mo ang templo kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw patindugon mo liwat,
panaog ka sa krus kag luwasa ang imo kaugalingon!”
Pareho man sina ang yaguta sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Nagsiling sila sa isa kag isa, “Ginluwas niya ang iban, pero indi siya makaluwas sang iya kaugalingon!
Tan-awon ta abi karon kon makapanaog sa krus ang Cristo nga hari sang Israel, kag kon makapanaog siya matuo kita sa iya.” Pati ang iya mga kaupod nga ginlansang nagyaguta man sa iya.
Sang udto na, nagdulom ang bug-os nga duta sa sulod sang tatlo ka oras.
Pag-alas tres sang hapon nagsinggit si Jesus sing mabaskog, “Eloi, Eloi lema sabactani?” “Eloi, Eloi lema sabactani?” nga kon sayuron, “Dios ko, Dios ko, ngaa ginpabay-an mo ako?”
Pagkabati sang iban nga nagatilindog didto nagsiling sila, “Pamatii ninyo, ginatawag niya si Elias.”
Sa gilayon nagdalagan ang isa ka tawo kag nagkuha sang espongha. Gintusmog niya ini sa maaslom nga bino kag gintakod sa punta sang punta sang tukon kag gintunghol sa baba ni Jesus para supsupon niya. Nagsiling siya, “Pabay-an ta lang siya anay. Tan-awon ta kon maabot si Elias sa pagkuha sa iya sa krus.”
Nagsinggit sing mabaskog si Jesus kag nabugto ang iya ginhawa.
Sa amo man nga oras, napihak ang kurtina sa sulod sang templo sa Jerusalem halin sa ibabaw paidalom.
Ang kapitan sang mga soldado nga nagatindog sa atubangan sang krus nakakita kon paano nabugto ang ginhawa ni Jesus. Nagsiling siya, “Matuod gid nga ang ini nga tawo amo ang Anak sang Dios!”
Sa ulo-unhan may mga babayi nga nagatan-aw sa nagakalatabo. Kaupod nila si Maria nga taga-Magdala, si Maria nga iloy ni Jose kag sang iya manghod nga si Santiago, kag si Salome.
Sang didto pa si Jesus sa Galilea, ini nga mga babayi nagaupod kag nagabulig sa iya. May iban pa nga mga babayi nga didto man nga nakaupod kay Jesus sa Jerusalem.
Napatay si Jesus Napatay si Jesus sa adlaw nga inugpreparar para sa piesta. Tungod nga hapon na gid kag ang sunod nga adlaw amo ang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway,
nangisog si Jose nga taga-Arimatea nga magkadto kay Pilato para pangayuon ang bangkay ni Jesus. Si Jose nga ini ginatahod nga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio kag isa sa mga nagapaabot sa paghari sang Dios.
Pagkabati ni Pilato nga si Jesus patay na, natingala siya. Gani ginpatawag niya ang kapitan sang mga soldado kag ginpamangkot niya kon patay na si Jesus.
Sang mabatian ni Pilato ang ginsugid sang kapitan nga patay na si Jesus, gintugutan niya si Jose nga kuhaon ang bangkay.
Gani nagbakal si Jose sang tela nga linen. Dayon ginkuha niya ang bangkay ni Jesus sa krus kag ginsamburan sang tela nga iya ginbakal. Ginbutang niya ang bangkay sa lulubngan nga gin-guhab sa banglid. Kag ginpaligid niya ang dako nga bato sa pagtakop sang puwertahan sang lulubngan.
Nagatan-aw didto si Maria nga taga-Magdala kag si Maria nga iloy ni Jose, gani nakita nila kon diin ginlubong si Jesus.
Pagkatapos sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, si Maria nga taga-Magdala, si Maria nga iloy ni Santiago, kag si Salome nagbakal sing pahamot kay makadto sila sa lulubngan sa paghaplas sang bangkay ni Jesus.
Aga pa gid sang Domingo, sang manugbutlak na ang adlaw, nagkadto sila sa lulubngan.
Gani nagsulod sila sa lulubngan kag nakita nila ang isa ka bataon nga lalaki nga nagapungko sa tuo dampi nga may maputi nga bayo. Hinadlukan gid sila.
Dayon nagsiling ang lalaki sa ila, “Indi kamo magkahadlok! Nahibaluan ko nga Nahibaluan ko nga ginapangita ninyo si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret nga ginlansang sa krus. Wala na siya diri! Nabanhaw siya! Tan-awa bala ninyo ang ginhamyangan sa iya.”
Dayon nagsiling siya, Dayon nagsiling siya, “Lakat kamo, sugiri ninyo ang iya mga sumulunod labi na gid si Pedro nga mauna si Jesus sa inyo didto sa Galilea. Didto ninyo siya makita suno sa iya ginsiling sa inyo.”
Gani nagguwa ang mga babayi sa lulubngan kag nagdalagan, kay nagakurog sila sa kakulba. Wala sila sang may ginsugiran, kay hinadlukan gid sila.
Aga pa gid sang Domingo nabanhaw si Jesus. Una gid siya nagpakita kay Maria nga taga-Magdala nga iya gintabugan sang pito ka demonyo.
Dayon ginkadtuan ni Maria ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus nga nagakasubo kag nagahilibion, kag ginsugiran niya sila.
Pero wala sila nagpati sa iya ginsugid nga buhi si Jesus kag nagpakita sa iya.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpakita si Jesus sa lain nga dagway sa iya duha ka sumulunod sang nagapakadto sila sa uma.
Gani nagbalik sa Jerusalem ining duha ka sumulunod kag ginsugiran nila ang iban nga mga kaupod nila nga si Jesus nagpakita sa ila, pero wala man sila nagpati.
Sang ulihi nagpakita naman si Jesus sa onse ka apostoles ka apostoles sang nagakaon sila. Ginsabdong niya sila tungod nga wala sila sing pagtuo kag tungod sang katig-a sang ila mga tagipusuon, kay wala sila nagpati sa ginsugid sang mga nakakita sa iya sa tapos siya nabanhaw.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Lakat kamo sa bilog nga kalibutan kag iwali ang Maayong Balita sa tanan nga tawo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga magtuo kag magpabautiso maluwas, pero ang indi magtuo pagasilutan.
Ini nga mga tanda makita sa mga tawo nga nagatuo sa akon: paagi sa akon ngalan
kon makauyat sila sang mga man-og ukon makainom sang bisan ano nga hilo indi sila maano; kag kon itungtong nila ang ila mga kamot sa mga nagamasakit, magaayo ini.”
Sa tapos makahambal si Ginoong Jesus sa ila, gindala siya pa-langit kag nagpungko sa tuo sang Dios.
Dayon nagwali ang iya mga sumulunod sa bisan diin nga lugar. Ginbuligan sila sang Ginoo, kag ginpamatud-an niya ang ginawali sang mga sumulunod paagi sa mga tanda nga ila ginhimo.
para masiguro mo nga matuod gid ang mga butang nga ginsugid sa imo.
Sang si Herodes ang hari sa Judea, may pari didto nga ang iya ngalan si Zacarias nga halin sa linya sang pagkapari ni Abia. Ang iya asawa si Elizabet nga kaliwat man ni Aaron.
Ining mag-asawa nagkabuhi sing matarong sa atubangan sang Dios. Ginasunod nila nga may katutom ang tanan nga sugo kag mga pagsulundan sang Ginoo.
Pero wala sila sing bata, kay baw-as si Elizabet kag tigulang na sila.
Karon, nag-abot ang adlaw nga ang grupo nila ni Zacarias amo na ang magaalagad sa Dios didto sa templo.
Naggabot-gabot ang mga pari suno sa ila kinabatasan, kag si Zacarias amo ang napilian nga magsunog sang insenso sa halaran. Gani nagsulod siya sa templo sang Ginoo.
Samtang nagasunog siya sang insenso didto sa sulod, madamo nga tawo sa guwa ang nagapangamuyo sa Dios.
Dayon nagpakita sa iya ang anghel sang Ginoo nga nagatindog sa tuo dampi sang halaran nga iya ginasunugan sang insenso.
Sang pagkakita ni Zacarias sa anghel nagulpihan siya kag hinadlukan.
Pero nagsiling ang anghel sa iya, “Zacarias, indi ka magkahadlok! Ginsabat sang Dios ang imo pangamuyo; si Elizabet nga imo asawa magabata sang lalaki. Ngalanan mo siya nga Juan.
Magamalipayon ka gid tungod sa iya, kag madamo ang magakalipay tungod sang pagkatawo niya.
Kay mangin gamhanan siya sa atubangan sang Ginoo. Indi siya dapat mag-inom sang bino ukon bisan ano nga ilimnon nga makahulubog. Halin pa sa tiyan sang iya iloy ang Espiritu Santo ara na sa iya.
Kag pabalikon niya ang madamo nga Israelinhon sa Ginoo nga ila Dios.
Magauna siya sa Ginoo para ipreparar niya ang mga tawo para sa pag-abot sang Ginoo. Himuon niya ini sa bulig sang Espiritu Santo Santo kag sa gahom nga pareho sang iya sadto ni Elias. Pabalikon niya ang kalulo sang mga ginikanan
Nagsiling si Zacarias sa anghel, “Paano ko masiguro nga matuman ang ginhambal mo, kay kami nga mag-asawa tigulang na?”
Nagsabat ang anghel, “Ako si Gabriel nga nagaalagad sa atubangan gid sang Dios. Ginpadala niya ako para magsugid sa imo sining maayong balita.
Pero tungod nga wala ka nagpati sang akon ginsugid, magaapa ka hasta sa adlaw nga matuman ang akon ginhambal sa imo. Kag matuman gid ini kon mag-abot na ang adlaw nga gintalana sang Dios.”
Ang mga tawo sa guwa nagapadayon sa paghulat kay Zacarias. Natingala gid sila ngaa nga kadugay gid sa iya sa sulod sang templo.
Sang pagguwa na niya indi na siya makahambal kag nagasinyas na lang siya sa mga tawo. Naintiendihan nila nga may ginpakita sa iya ang Dios didto sa sulod sang templo. Halin sadto nangin apa siya.
Pagkatapos sang iya turno sa pag-alagad sa templo, nagpuli siya.
Pagkaligad sang pila ka adlaw, nagbusong si Elizabet nga iya asawa. Sa sulod sang lima ka bulan wala gid siya nagguwa-guwa sa ila balay.
Nagsiling siya, “Ginkaluoyan gid man ako sang Ginoo, kay sa sini nga tion ginkuha niya ang akon kahuy-anan sa mga tawo bilang isa ka baw-as bilang isa ka baw-as .”
Sang anom na ka bulan ang pagbusong ni Elizabet ang pagbusong ni Elizabet , ginsugo liwat liwat sang Dios ang anghel nga si Gabriel nga magkadto sa Nazaret, nga isa sang mga banwa sa Galilea.
Ginpadala siya didto sa isa ka birhen nga ang ngalan si Maria. Si Maria kalaslon na kay Jose, nga isa sang mga kaliwat ni Haring Haring David.
Pag-abot sang anghel kay Maria, nagsiling siya, “ Maria, Maria, magkalipay ka, kay kay ang Ginoo kaupod mo kag ginpakamaayo niya ikaw.”
Pagkabati sini ni Maria naglibog gid ang iya ulo, kag ginhunahuna niya kon ano bala ang kahulugan sini.
Gani nagsiling ang anghel sa iya, “Maria, indi ka magkahadlok, kay ginpakita sang Dios ang iya kaayo sa imo.
Magabusong ka kag magabata sang lalaki, kag ngalanan mo siya nga Jesus.
Mangin bantog siya kag kilalahon nga Anak sang Labing Mataas nga Dios. Ihatag sa iya sang Ginoong Dios ang ginharian sang iya katigulangan nga si David.
Magahari siya sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob hasta san-o; ang iya paghari wala sing katapusan.”
Nagsiling si Maria sa anghel, “Paano bala ang pagkahimo sini, kay birhen pa ako?”
Nagsabat ang anghel, “Magaabot sa imo ang Espiritu Santo, kag magalikop sa imo ang gahom sang Labing Mataas nga Dios. Gani ang balaan nga bata nga matawo sa imo kilalahon nga Anak sang Dios.
Tan-awa bala ang imo paryente nga si Elizabet. Nagsiling ang iban nga indi na siya makabata kay tigulang na gid siya. Pero karon anom na ka bulan ang iya ginabusong,
tungod kay sa Dios, ang tanan sarang mahimo.”
Gani nagsiling si Maria, “Alagad lang ako sang Ginoo. Kabay pa nga matuman sa akon ang imo ginsiling.” Dayon naghalin ang anghel.
Pagkatapos sang pila ka adlaw, naghimos si Maria kag nagdali-dali kadto sa isa ka banwa sa kabukiran sang Judea.
Nagsulod siya sa balay nila ni Zacarias kag nangamusta kay Elizabet.
Pagkabati ni Elizabet sang pagpangamusta ni Maria, naghulag sing mabaskog ang bata sa iya tiyan. Gin-gamhan si Elizabet sang Espiritu Santo,
kag sa mabaskog nga tingog naghambal siya, “Sa tanan nga babayi ikaw lang ang ginbendisyunan sang Dios sang pareho sini! Ginbendisyunan man niya ang imo ginabusong!
Dako gid ini nga kadungganan nakon tungod kay ginbisitahan ako sang iloy sang akon Ginoo.
Kay bisan mismo ang bata sa akon tiyan malipayon nga naghulag sing mabaskog sang mabatian ko ang imo pagpangamusta.
Bulahan gid ikaw nga nagtuo nga matuman sa imo ang ginhambal sang Ginoo!”
“Nagadayaw gid ako sa Ginoo!
Kag nagakalipay ang akon espiritu sa Dios nga akon Manluluwas.
Sugod subong, magasiling ang tanan nga henerasyon nga bulahan ako,
Balaan siya nga Dios nga Dios !
nga nagatahod sa iya sa kada henerasyon.
nga mataas ang ila pagtan-aw sa ila kaugalingon.
Kag ginbayaw niya ang mga kubos.
Pero ang mga manggaranon ginpahalin niya nga wala gid sing dala.
Kag nagtiner si Maria didto sa ila ni Elizabet sang mga tatlo ka bulan antes siya magpuli.
Karon nag-abot na ang tion nga inugbata ni Elizabet, kag nagbata siya sang lalaki.
Pagkabati sang iya mga kasilingan kag mga paryente nga dako ang kaluoy sang Ginoo sa iya, nagkalipay sila kaupod niya.
Sang walo na ka adlaw ang bata, nagtambong ang mga kasilingan kag mga paryente sa pagtuli sa iya. Kuntani ngalanan nila siya nga Zacarias pareho sang iya amay,
pero indi komporme si Elizabet. Nagsiling siya, “Indi mahimo, dapat Juan ang ingalan sa iya.”
Nagsiling sila, “Pero wala gid kamo sang paryente nga pareho sina ang ngalan.”
Kag ginsinyasan nila ang amay kon ano ang iya gusto nga ingalan sa iya bata.
Nagsinyas siya nga hatagan siya sang sululatan. Dayon nagsulat siya, “Ngalanan siya nga Juan.” Natingala gid sila tanan.
Sa gilayon nakahambal si Zacarias kag nagdayaw siya sa Dios.
Ginkulbaan ang tanan nila nga mga kasilingan sa balita parte sa tanan nga nagkalatabo, kag nangin bantog man ini sa tanan nga kabukiran sang Judea.
Ang tanan nga tawo nga nakabati sini nagpamalandong kag nagpamangkot, “Mangin ano ayhan ini nga bata kon magdako na siya?” Kay maathag nga ang gahom sang Ginoo ara sa iya.
Gin-gamhan sang Espiritu Santo si Zacarias nga amay ni Juan kag amo ini ang iya ginhambal,
Kay gindumdom kag ginhilway niya kita nga iya katawhan.
nga kaliwat sang iya alagad nga si David.
paagi sa iya pinili nga mga propeta.
kag sa mga tawo nga nagadumot sa aton.
ang iya balaan nga kasugtanan
nga ginsumpa niya sa aton katigulangan nga si Abraham.
sa iya atubangan sa adlaw-adlaw ta nga pagkabuhi.”
ang mga tawo para sa iya pag-abot.
Patawaron sila sang Dios sa ila mga sala,
nga pareho sa nagabutlak nga adlaw,
ang aton relasyon sa Dios kag sa aton isigkatawo.”
Karon, ang bata nga si Juan nagdako kag nangin mabaskog sa espiritu. Nag-estar siya sa kamingawan hasta sa adlaw nga nagsugod siya sa iya pagpanudlo sa mga Israelinhon.
Sang sadto nga panahon nga natawo si Juan, nga natawo si Juan, naghimo ang Emperador sang Roma nga si Augustus sang kasuguan nga ang mga pumuluyo sang tanan nga nasyon sa iya ginharian dapat magpalista.
(Amo ato ang una nga census sang si Quirinius ang gobernador sang probinsya sang probinsya sang Syria.
Gani nagpuli ang mga tawo sa ila kaugalingon nga banwa para magpalista.)
Amo ini ang kabangdanan nga nagkadto si Jose sa Betlehem nga sakop sang Judea, ang lugar nga sa diin natawo si Haring Haring David, tungod nga isa siya sang mga kaliwat ni David. Nagaestar sadto si Jose sa banwa sang Nazaret nga sakop sang Galilea sang nagkadto siya sa Betlehem.
Gindala ni Jose si Maria nga iya palangasaw-on para magpalista man. Nagabusong na sadto si Maria.
Kag sang didto sila sa Betlehem, nag-abot ang tion nga inugbata na niya.
Nagbata siya sang lalaki nga amo ang iya kamagulangan nga bata. Ginputos niya sang lampin kag ginpahigda sa kalan-an sang sapat, tungod nga wala gid sing lugar para sa ila sa mga balay nga dalayunan.
Malapit sa banwa sang Betlehem may mga manugbantay sang mga karnero nga nagapulaw sa latagon sa pagbantay sang ila mga karnero.
Sa hinali lang nagpakita sa ila ang isa ka anghel sang Ginoo kag ginlikupan sila sang kasanag sang Ginoo. Hinadlukan gid sila,
pero naghambal ang anghel, “Indi kamo magkahadlok, kay nagkadto ako diri sa inyo para sugiran ko kamo sang maayong balita nga magahatag sang dako nga kalipay sa tanan nga tawo.
Kay subong nga adlaw sa banwa ni Haring Haring David natawo ang inyo manluluwas. Siya ang pinadala nga hari, nga amo ang Ginoo.
Amo ini ang tanda sang akon ginasiling: makita ninyo ang bata nga naputos sang lampin kag nagahigda sa kalan-an sang sapat.”
Pagkatapos hambal sang anghel hambal sang anghel , hinali lang nga nagpakita ang madamo gid nga mga anghel sa langit kag nag-upod sa iya nga nagadayaw sa Dios. Siling nila,
sa mga tawo nga iya nahamut-an!”
Sang makahalin na ang mga anghel pabalik sa langit, naghambalanay ang mga manugbantay sang mga karnero, “Dali, malakat kita sa Betlehem kag tan-awon ta ang natabo nga ginpahayag sa aton sang Ginoo!”
Gani dali-dali sila nga nagkadto sa Betlehem kag nakita nila si Maria kag si Jose, kag ang bata nga nagahigda sa kalan-an sang sapat.
Dayon ginsugid nila ang ginhambal sang anghel parte sa bata.
Natingala gid ang tanan nga nakabati sa ginbalita sang mga manugbantay sang mga karnero.
Gintipigan ni Maria ini nga mga butang sa iya tagipusuon kag ginapamalandungan niya permi.
Nagbalik ang mga manugbantay sang mga karnero nga dako ang ila pagdayaw sa Dios tungod sang tanan nga ila nabatian kag nakita, nga suno gid sa ginsugid sang anghel sa ila.
Sang ikawalo nga adlaw nga natawo ang bata, gintuli nila siya kag gin-ngalanan Jesus. Amo ini ang ngalan nga ginsiling sang anghel sa wala pa siya ginbusong.
Karon, nag-abot ang adlaw nga magahalad si Jose kag si Maria sa templo sa Jerusalem para tumanon ang Kasuguan ni Moises parte sa babayi nga bag-o nagbata para makabig siya nga matinlo. Kag gindala man nila ang bata sa Jerusalem para ihalad sa Ginoo.
Kay nasulat sa Kasuguan sang Ginoo, “Ang tagsa ka kamagulangan nga lalaki idedikar sa Ginoo.”
Kag para makabig si Maria nga matinlo, naghalad sila suno sa ginasiling sang Kasuguan sang Ginoo, “Duha ka pating ukon duha ka bataon nga tukmo.”
Didto sa Jerusalem may tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Simeon. Ini nga tawo matarong kag diosnon kag nagahulat siya nga matuman ang propesiya nga pagaluwason sang Dios ang Israel paagi sa hari nga iya ipadala. Ara sa iya ang Espiritu Santo,
kag ginpahayag sa iya sang Espiritu Santo nga indi siya mapatay sa wala pa niya makita ang hari
Dayon, ginpasulod siya sang Espiritu Santo Santo didto sa ugsaran sang ugsaran sang templo. Didto man gindala si Jesus sang iya mga ginikanan sa pagtuman sang ginsiling sang Kasuguan.
Pagkakita ni Simeon sa bata, Pagkakita ni Simeon sa bata, ginkugos niya kag nagdayaw siya sa Dios nga nagasiling,
Matawhay na ang akon hunahuna,
kay subong nga adlaw nakita ko na ang Manluluwas
nga imo ginpreparar para sa tanan nga tawo.
sa imo katawhan nga mga Israelinhon.”
Natingala gid ang amay kag iloy sang bata sa ginhambal ni Simeon parte sa bata.
Pagkatapos nga mabendisyunan sila ni Simeon, nagsiling siya kay Maria nga iloy sang bata, “Ini nga bata ginpili sang Dios sa paglaglag kag sa pagluwas
Gani ikaw mismo magabatyag sing kasubo nga daw ginabuno ang imo tagipusuon. Ipahayag man niya ang malain nga mga hunahuna sang mga tawo.”
May propeta man didto nga babayi nga ang iya ngalan si Ana. Anak siya ni Fanuel nga kaliwat ni Asher. Tigulang na gid siya kaayo. Pito lang ka tuig ang pag-upod nila sang iya bana
kag nabalo siya. 84 na ka tuig ang iya edad
Sa sina mismo nga tion nagpalapit siya sa ila ni Jose sa ila ni Jose kag nagpasalamat sa Dios tungod sa bata. Naghambal man siya parte kay Jesus sa mga tawo nga nagapaabot sang adlaw nga luwason sang Dios ang Jerusalem.
Sang natuman na ni Jose kag ni Maria ang tanan nga dapat nila tumanon suno sa Kasuguan sang Ginoo, nagpuli sila sa ila banwa, sa Nazaret nga sakop sang Galilea.
Nagdako kag nagbakod ang bata, kag nangin maalam siya; kag ginpakamaayo siya sang Dios.
Kada tuig nagakadto ang mga ginikanan ni Jesus sa Jerusalem para magpamiesta sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Sang dose na ka tuig si Jesus, nagpamiesta sila pareho sang ila kinaandan nga ginahimo.
Pagkatapos sang piesta, nagpuli sila, pero si Jesus ya nagpabilin sa Jerusalem. Wala ini nahibalui sang iya mga ginikanan.
Ang hunahuna nila nga nagaupod si Jesus sa ila mga kaupdanan nga nagapapuli man. Isa gid ka adlaw ang ila pagpanglakaton. Sang ulihi ginpangita nila si Jesus sa ila mga paryente kag mga abyan.
Nasapwan nila nga wala gali makaupod si Jesus sa ila. Gani nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem para pangitaon siya.
Sa ikatlo nga adlaw nakita nila si Jesus didto sa templo nga nagapungko kaupod sa mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan sang Kasuguan . Nagapamati siya kag nagapamangkot sa ila.
Ang tanan nga nagapamati sa iya natingala gid sa iya mga nahibaluan kag mga pagsabat.
Pagkakita sang iya mga ginikanan sa iya, natingala gid sila. Nagsiling ang iya iloy, “Anak, ngaa nga ginhimo mo ini sa amon? Ginkulbaan gid kami sa amon pagpangita sa imo!”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa bala ginapangita gid ninyo ako? Wala bala kamo nakahibalo nga dapat diri ako sa balay sang akon Amay?”
Pero wala sila nakaintiendi sang iya buot silingon.
Nag-upod si Jesus sa iya mga ginikanan puli sa Nazaret, kag padayon siya nga nangin matinumanon sa ila. Ini tanan nga butang gintipigan ni Maria sa iya tagipusuon.
Nagdugang pa gid ang kaalam ni Jesus kag padayon ang iya pagdako, kag nalipay gid sa iya ang Dios kag ang mga tawo.
Tungod sang ginhambal sang Dios kay Juan, Tungod sang ginhambal sang Dios kay Juan, nagkadto siya sa tanan nga lugar sa pihak kag pihak sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagwali. Nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, “Maghinulsol kamo sa inyo mga sala kag magpabautiso, para patawaron kamo sang Dios.”
Tadlunga ang dalan nga iya pagaagyan!
kag ang mga batsihon nga dalan kay-uhon.
kon ano ang himuon sang Dios sa pagluwas sa ila.’ ”
Madamo sang tawo ang nagkadto kay Juan para magpabautiso. Nagsiling si Juan sa ila, “Kamo nga mga kaliwat sang mga man-og! Sin-o ang nagsiling sa inyo nga makapalagyo kamo sa palaabuton nga kaakig sang Dios sang Dios ?
Kon matuod nga naghinulsol kamo sa inyo mga sala, pamatud-i ninyo ini sa inyo mga binuhatan. Indi kamo magsiling nga indi kamo pagsilutan tungod kay kamo mga kaliwat ni Abraham. Kay bisan ang mga bato nga ini sarang mahimo sang Dios nga mga anak ni Abraham.
Tandai ninyo ini: ang wasay handa na sa pagtapas sa puno sang mga kahoy. Ang tagsa ka kahoy nga wala nagapamunga sang maayo nga bunga pagatapson kag ihaboy sa kalayo.”
Nagpamangkot ang mga tawo kay Juan, “Ti ano ang amon himuon?”
Nagsabat si Juan, “Kon sin-o sa inyo ang may duha ka panid nga bayo, ihatag ang isa sa wala sing bayo. Kag kon sin-o sa inyo ang may pagkaon, hatagi ang wala.”
May mga manugsukot sang buhis nga nagkadto man kay Juan para magpabautiso. Nagsiling sila kay Juan, “Manunudlo, ano ang amon himuon?”
Nagsabat si Juan, “Kon nagasukot kamo sang buhis, indi kamo magsukot sing sobra sa ginapasukot sa inyo sang gobyerno sang gobyerno .”
May mga soldado man nga nagpamangkot. Siling nila, “Ti, kami ya, ano man ang amon himuon?” Nagsabat si Juan sa ila, “Indi kamo magpamahog ukon magbutang-butang para makapanguwarta. Magkontento kamo sa inyo suweldo.”
Pagkabati sang mga tawo sa mga pagpanudlo ni Juan, naghunahuna sila nga basi kon si Juan amo na ang Cristo nga ila ginapaabot.
Pero nagsiling si Juan sa ila, “Ako nagabautiso sa inyo sa tubig, pero may magaabot nga mas gamhanan pa sang sa akon kag indi gani ako takos nga mangin iya ulipon.
Pareho siya sa tawo nga nagapahangin sang iya inani para painon ang tinggas sa upa. Ang tinggas ibutang niya sa bodega, pero ang upa sunugon niya sa kalayo nga indi gid mapatay.”
Samtang ginawali ni Juan ang Maayong Balita sa mga tawo, madamo pa siya sang mga ginpangtudlo nga nakapabakod sa ila.
Pero si Herodes nga pangulo sang Galilea ginsaway ni Juan tungod nga ginhimo niya nga kerida ang iya bayaw nga si Herodias kag tungod sang madamo pa nga kalainan nga iya ginhimo.
Sang ulihi nagdugang pa gid ang sala ni Herodes, kay ginpapriso niya si Juan.
May adlaw sadto nga pagkatapos nga nabautisohan ni Juan ang mga tawo, si Jesus nagpabautiso man. Sang nagapangamuyo si Jesus, nag-abri ang langit
kag naghugpa sa iya ang Espiritu Santo sa dagway sang pating. Dayon may tingog nga nabatian halin sa langit nga nagasiling, “Ikaw ang akon hinigugma nga Anak. Nalipay gid ako sa imo.”
Mga 30 na ang edad ni Jesus sang nagsugod siya sang iya buluhaton. Sa hunahuna sang mga tawo, anak siya ni Jose nga anak ni Eli.
Si Eli anak ni Matat. Si Matat anak ni Levi. Si Levi anak ni Melki. Si Melki anak ni Janai. Si Janai anak ni Jose.
Si Jose anak ni Matatias. Si Matatias anak ni Amos. Si Amos anak ni Nahum. Si Nahum anak ni Esli. Si Esli anak ni Nagai.
Si Nagai anak ni Maat. Si Maat anak ni Matatias. Si Matatias anak ni Semin. Si Semin anak ni Josec. Si Josec anak ni Joda.
Si Joda anak ni Joanan. Si Joanan anak ni Resa. Si Resa anak ni Zerubabel. Si Zerubabel anak ni Shealtiel. Si Shealtiel anak ni Neri.
Si Neri anak ni Melki. Si Melki anak ni Adi. Si Adi anak ni Cosam. Si Cosam anak ni Elmadam. Si Elmadam anak ni Er.
Si Er anak ni Josue. Si Josue anak ni Eliezer. Si Eliezer anak ni Jorim. Si Jorim anak ni Matat. Si Matat anak ni Levi.
Si Levi anak ni Simeon. Si Simeon anak ni Juda. Si Juda anak ni Jose. Si Jose anak ni Jonam. Si Jonam anak ni Eliakim.
Si Eliakim anak ni Melea. Si Melea anak ni Mena. Si Mena anak ni Matata. Si Matata anak ni Natan. Si Natan anak ni David.
Si David anak ni Jesse. Si Jesse anak ni Obed. Si Obed anak ni Boaz. Si Boaz anak ni Salmon.
Si Nashon anak ni Aminadab. Si Aminadab anak ni Admin. Si Admin anak ni Arni. Si Arni anak ni Hezron. Si Hezron anak ni Perez. Si Perez anak ni Juda.
Si Juda anak ni Jacob. Si Jacob anak ni Isaac. Si Isaac anak ni Abraham. Si Abraham anak ni Tera. Si Tera anak ni Nahor.
Si Nahor anak ni Serug. Si Serug anak ni Reu.
Si Shela anak ni Cainan. Si Cainan anak ni Arfaxad. Si Arfaxad anak ni Shem. Si Shem anak ni Noe. Si Noe anak ni Lamec.
Si Lamec anak ni Metusela. Si Metusela anak ni Enoc. Si Enoc anak ni Jared. Si Jared anak ni Mahalalel. Si Mahalalel anak ni Kenan.
Si Kenan anak ni Enosh. Si Enosh anak ni Set. Si Set anak ni Adan. Si Adan anak sang Dios.
Si Jesus nga gin-gamhan sang Espiritu Santo naghalin sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan. Kag gindala siya sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa kamingawan.
Didto gintentar siya sang yawa sa sulod sang 40 ka adlaw. Sa sadtong mga inadlaw wala gid siya magkaon, gani gin-gutom siya.
Nagsiling ang yawa sa iya, “Kon ikaw ang Anak sang Dios, himua ini nga bato nga mangin tinapay.”
Pero nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Indi lang sa pagkaon mabuhi ang tawo.’ ”
Dayon gindala sang yawa si Jesus sa mataas nga lugar, kag sa isa lang ka pamisok ginpakita niya kay Jesus ang tanan nga ginharian sang kalibutan.
Dayon nagsiling siya kay Jesus, “Ihatag ko sa imo ang tanan nga gahom kag manggad sang sini nga mga ginharian, tungod kay ini tanan ginhatag sa akon kag puwede ko man ihatag sa kay bisan sin-o nga gusto ko hatagan.
Gani ini tanan mangin imo kon magsimba ka sa akon.”
Ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Simbahon mo ang Ginoo nga imo Dios kag siya gid lang ang imo alagaron.’
Sa tapos sini gindala sang yawa si Jesus didto sa Jerusalem kag ginpatindog sa pinakamataas nga parte sang templo. Dayon nagsiling siya kay Jesus, “Kon ikaw ang Anak sang Dios, lukso ka paidalom.
Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Suguon sang Dios ang iya mga anghel sa pagbantay sa imo.
Pero ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Indi pagtestingi ang Ginoo nga imo Dios.’ ”
Pagkakita sang yawa nga indi gid niya matentar si Jesus ginbayaan niya anay siya.
Dayon nagbalik si Jesus sa Galilea nga ang gahom sang Espiritu Santo Santo ara sa iya. Ang balita parte sa iya naglapnag sa bilog nga Galilea kag sa tanan nga lugar sa palibot sini.
Nagpanudlo siya sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio kag gindayaw siya sang tanan.
Dayon nagkadto si Jesus sa Nazaret. Amo ini ang lugar sa diin siya nagdako. Nagkadto siya sa simbahan sang mga Judio sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway suno sa iya kinabatasan. Nagtindog siya para magbasa sang Kasulatan.
Ginhatag sa iya ang sinulatan ni Propeta Isaias. Ginhumlad niya ini kag pagkakita niya sang parte sang Kasulatan nga iya ginapangita, ginbasa niya dayon nga nagasiling:
Ginpadala niya ako sa paghilway sa mga ginadaogdaog,
nga luwason sang Ginoo ang iya katawhan.”
Dayon ginlukot ni Jesus ang Kasulatan kag ginbalik sa manugbulig sang simbahan. Nagpungko siya dayon para magsugod sa pagtudlo para magsugod sa pagtudlo . Ang tanan nga tawo nagtulok gid sa iya.
Siling ni Jesus sa ila, “Ini nga parte sang Kasulatan natuman na subong nga adlaw samtang ginapamatian ninyo ang pagbasa sini.”
Gindayaw siya sang tanan kag dako gid ang ila katingala sa iya matahom nga mga pulong. Siling nila, “Indi bala anak lang siya ni Jose?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sigurado gid nga sambiton ninyo sa akon ang hulubaton nga nagasiling, ‘Manugbulong, bulunga anay ang imo kaugalingon, nga ang buot silingon, nga ang buot silingon, ang mga butang nga amon nabatian nga imo ginpanghimo sa banwa sang Capernaum dapat himuon mo man diri sa amon lugar.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, wala sing propeta nga ginakilala sa iya kaugalingon nga banwa.
Hunahunaa ninyo ang natabo sang una Hunahunaa ninyo ang natabo sang una sang panahon ni Propeta Propeta Elias. Wala pagpaulana sang Dios sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig kag tunga kag dako gid ang gutom sa bug-os nga duta. Matuod nga madamo ang mga balo nga babayi sa bilog nga Israel sa sadto nga tion sang gutom.
Pero wala gid pagsugua sang Dios si Elias para buligan ang bisan sin-o sa ila; kundi ginpadala siya sa isa ka balo nga babayi nga indi Judio nga indi Judio nga nagaestar sa banwa sang Zarefat nga sakop sang Sidon.
Amo man ini ang natabo sang panahon ni Propeta Elisha. Madamo sang tawo didto sa Israel nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit,
Pagkabati sadto sang mga tawo sa simbahan nangakig gid sila.
Nagtilindog sila kag gin-guyod nila si Jesus paguwa sa banwa, didto sa may pil-as dampi (kay ang ila banwa sa ibabaw sang bukid). Gusto nila nga itiklod si Jesus didto sa pil-as.
Pero naglusot si Jesus sa tunga nila kag ginbayaan sila.
Halin didto, nagdulhog si Jesus sa banwa sang Capernaum nga sakop sang Galilea. Sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway nagtudlo siya sa simbahan sang simbahan sang mga Judio.
Natingala gid ang mga tawo sa iya pagpanudlo tungod nga may awtoridad siya kon maghambal.
Didto sa simbahan may tawo nga ginsudlan sang espiritu sang mahigko nga demonyo. Nagsinggit siya sing mabaskog,
Pero ginsabdong ni Jesus ang demonyo. Siling niya, “Maghipos ka kag magguwa sa iya!” Sa tunga sang kadam-an gintumba sang demonyo ang tawo kag nagguwa siya, pero wala siya makahalit sa tawo.
Natingala gid ang mga tawo didto kag nagsiling sa isa kag isa, “Ano ining iya ginpanghambal? May awtoridad siya kag gahom sa pagmando sa mahigko nga mga espiritu nga magguwa, kag nagatuman sila.”
Dayon ang balita parte kay Jesus naglapnag sa tanan nga lugar sa palibot.
Nagguwa si Jesus sa simbahan sang mga Judio kag nagkadto sa balay ni Simon. Ang ugangan nga babayi ni Simon may mataas nga hilanat, gani ginpangabay nila si Jesus nga kon mahimo ayuhon niya siya.
Nagpalapit si Jesus kag nagtindog sa kilid sang iya ginahigdaan kag ginsabdong ang hilanat, kag nag-ayo siya. Nagbangon siya dayon kag ginhimusan niya sang pagkaon sila ni Jesus.
Sang nagasalop na ang adlaw, madamo gid nga mga tawo ang nagdala sang ila mga masakiton didto kay Jesus. Gintungtong ni Jesus ang iya kamot sa tagsa-tagsa sa ila kag nag-alayo sila tanan.
Pati ang mga demonyo ginpaguwa niya sa madamo nga tawo. Samtang nagaguwa ang mga demonyo, nagasinggit sila kay Jesus kay Jesus , “Ikaw ang Anak sang Dios!” Pero ginsaway sila ni Jesus nga indi sila maghambal tungod kay nahibaluan nila nga siya amo ang Cristo.
Sang kaagahon na, nagguwa si Jesus sa sadto nga banwa kag nagkadto sa kamingawan. Ginpangita siya sang mga tawo. Kag sang pagkakita nila sa iya, nagpakitluoy sila nga indi anay siya maghalin didto sa ila.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kinahanglan iwali ko man sa iban nga mga banwa ang Maayong Balita parte sa paghari sang Dios, kay amo ina ang rason kon ngaa ginpadala ako.”
Gani nagpadayon si Jesus sa pagwali sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio didto sa Judea.
Isa sadto ka adlaw, nagatindog si Jesus sa higad sang Dagat
May nakita si Jesus nga duha ka sakayan nga ara sa higad kag ang mangingisda nakapanaog na sa paghugas sang ila mga pukot.
Ang isa ka sakayan iya ni Simon. Ginsakyan ini ni Jesus kag ginpangabay niya si Simon nga itulod diutay ang sakayan palayo sa higad. Nagpungko si Jesus kag nagpanudlo sa mga tawo.
Pagkatapos niya panudlo, nagsiling siya kay Simon, “Ipalawod ninyo ang inyo sakayan kag iladlad ang inyo mga pukot para makakuha kamo sang mga isda.”
Nagsiling si Simon kay Jesus, “Manunudlo,
Nagpalawod sila kag ginladlad nila ang ila mga pukot. Madamo gid nga mga isda ang ila nakuha kag daw magisi na ang ila mga pukot.
Gani ginpaypay nila ang ila mga kaupod sa isa ka sakayan para buligan sila. Pag-abot sang ila mga kaupod ginpuno nila sang isda ang duha ka sakayan, kag daw malunod sila tungod sa kadamuon sang isda tungod sa kadamuon sang isda .
Pagkakita sadto ni Simon Pedro, nagluhod siya kay Jesus kag nagsiling, “Ginoo, palayo ka sa akon kay makasasala ako nga tawo.”
Kay natingala gid si Simon pati ang iya mga kaupdanan tungod sa kadamuon sang isda nga ila nakuha.
Natingala man ang mga kasusyo ni Simon nga si Santiago kag si Juan nga mga anak ni Zebedee. Dayon nagsiling si Jesus kay Simon, “Indi ka magkahadlok. Sugod subong indi na isda ang indi na isda ang imo pangitaon kundi kundi ang mga tawo para madala sila sa Dios para madala sila sa Dios .”
Sang napahigad na nila ang ila mga sakayan, ginbayaan nila ang tanan kag nagsunod kay Jesus.
Sang didto si Jesus sa isa ka banwa, may tawo didto nga ang iya lawas puno sang delikado nga balatian sa panit.
Dayon gintandog siya ni Jesus nga nagasiling, “Gusto ko. Magmatinlo ka!” Sa gilayon nadula ang iya balatian sa panit.
Pagkatapos ginmanduan siya ni Jesus, “Indi ka gid magpanugid bisan kay sin-o parte sini, kundi magderetso ka sa pari kag magpatan-aw sa iya.
Bisan amo ato ang ginmando sa tawo naglapnag gihapon ang balita parte kay Jesus, kag madamo gid ang mga tawo nga nagtilipon sa pagpamati sa iya kag sa pagpabulong sang ila mga balatian.
Pero permi nagakadto si Jesus sa kamingawan kag nagapangamuyo didto.
Isa ka adlaw sang si Jesus nagapanudlo, may mga Pariseo kag mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga nagapungko malapit sa iya. Ini nga mga tawo naghalin pa sa nagkalain-lain nga baryo sang Galilea kag Judea, kag pati sa Jerusalem. Ara kay Jesus ang gahom sang Ginoo sa pag-ayo sang mga masakiton.
May mga tawo nga nag-abot nga dala ang isa ka paralitiko nga ara sa hiligdaan. Ginhimulatan nila nga dal-on siya kay Jesus sa sulod sang balay.
Pero tungod sa kadamuon sang mga tawo wala gid sila sing may maagyan pasulod. Gani nagsaka sila sa atop sang balay kag gin-guhaban nila ang atop. Pagkatapos gintunton nila ang paralitiko nga ara sa hiligdaan sa atubangan ni Jesus.
Pagkakita ni Jesus nga may pagtuo sila sa iya sa iya , nagsiling siya sa paralitiko sa paralitiko , “Abyan,
Ang mga Pariseo kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nagsiling sa ila kaugalingon, “Sin-o gid bala ang ini nga tawo nga nagainsulto sa Dios sa Dios ? Wala sing bisan sin-o nga makapatawad sang mga sala kundi ang Dios lang.”
Nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila ginahunahuna, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ngaa bala nagahunahuna kamo sang subong sina?
Karon pamatud-an ko sa inyo paagi sa pag-ayo sa sini nga paralitiko nga ako paagi sa pag-ayo sa sini nga paralitiko nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo may gahom diri sa duta sa pagpatawad sang mga sala.” Dayon nagsiling siya sa paralitiko, “Magtindog ka, dal-a ang imo hiligdaan kag magpuli!”
Sa gilayon nagtindog ang paralitiko sa atubangan nila. Dayon gindala niya ang iya hiligdaan kag nagpuli nga nagadayaw sa Dios.
Natingala gid ang tanan nga tawo didto. Gindayaw nila ang Dios nga may kahadlok. Siling nila, “Makatilingala nga mga butang ang aton nakita subong.”
Pagkatapos sadto, naghalin si Jesus didto kag nakita niya ang manugsukot sang buhis nga si Levi nga nagapungko sa balayaran sang buhis. Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Dali, sunod ka sa akon.”
Nagtindog si Levi, ginbayaan niya ang tanan kag nagsunod kay Jesus.
Dayon naghiwat si Levi sang dako nga punsyon para kay Jesus didto sa iya balay. Madamo nga manugsukot sang buhis kag iban pa nga mga tawo ang nagtambong nga nangin kaupod nila sa pagkaon.
Pagkakita sini sang mga Pariseo kag sang ila mga kaupod nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nagreklamo sila sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus. Siling nila, “Ngaa nagaupod kamo kaon kag inom sa mga manugsukot sang buhis kag sa iban pa nga iban pa nga mga makasasala?”
Si Jesus ang nagsabat sa ila, “Ang tawo nga maayo ang lawas wala nagakinahanglan sang doktor, kundi ang nagamasakit lang.
Wala ako nagkadto diri sa pagtawag sa mga nagakilala nga sila nagakilala nga sila matarong, kundi sa mga makasasala para maghinulsol sila.”
May mga tawo didto nga nagsiling kay Jesus, “Ang mga sumulunod ni Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso kag ang mga sumulunod sang mga Pariseo masami nga nagapuasa kag nagapangamuyo, pero ang imo mga sumulunod sige lang ang kaon kag inom.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Mahimo bala nga magpuasa ang mga bisita sa kasal samtang kaupod pa nila ang nobyo? Siyempre, indi! Siyempre, indi!
Ginsugiran pa gid sila ni Jesus sang mga paanggid, “Indi maayo nga maggisi sang bag-o nga bayo para itukap sa daan nga bayo, kay luwas nga magisi ang bag-o, ang gintukap indi magbagay sa daan nga bayo.
Indi man maayo nga isulod ang bag-o nga bino sa daan nga suludlan nga panit. Kay mabusdik ang suludlan kag mausik ang bino, kag ang suludlan indi na mapuslan.
Sa baylo, ginasulod ang bag-o nga bino sa bag-o nga suludlan nga panit.”
Nagsiling pa si Jesus, Nagsiling pa si Jesus, “Wala sing tawo nga anad na sa daan nga bino nga magpangita sang bag-o, kay suno sa iya, mas manami ang daan nga bino.”
Sang isa ka Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, samtang nagaagi sila ni Jesus sa kaumahan sang trigo, namuksi ang iya mga sumulunod sang mga uhay sang trigo, kag ginpiripis nila ini kag ginkaon.
Pero may mga Pariseo nga nagsiling kay Jesus, “Ngaa ginahimo ninyo ang ginabawal nga himuon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway?”
Nagsulod siya sa balay sang Dios kag nagkuha sang tinapay nga ginhalad sa Dios kag ginkaon niya. Ginpakaon man niya ang iya mga kaupod, bisan pa nga ginabawal sang Kasuguan sang Kasuguan ang magkaon sadto luwas lang sa mga pari.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, “ Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo may gahom sa pagsiling kon ano ang husto nga himuon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.”
Sang isa naman ka Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagsulod si Jesus sa simbahan sang mga Judio sa pagpanudlo. May tawo didto nga pingkaw
Tungod nga ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag ang mga Pariseo nagapangita gid sang kabangdanan nga maakusar nila si Jesus, ginabantayan nila kon bala ayuhon niya ang ato nga tawo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus kon ano ang ara sa ila hunahuna. Gani nagsiling siya sa tawo nga pingkaw, “Tindog ka kag magpalapit diri sa atubangan.” Kag nagtindog siya kag nagkadto kay Jesus.
Dayon siling ni Jesus sa mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag sa mga Pariseo, “Ano bala ang ginatugot sang aton Kasuguan sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway: ang paghimo sang maayo sa mga tawo, ukon ang paghimo sang malain? Ang pagluwas sang ila kabuhi, ukon ang pagpatay?”
Nagtulok si Jesus sa ila tanan. Dayon naghambal siya sa tawo nga pingkaw, “Untaya ang imo kamot.” Gin-untay niya, kag nag-ayo ini.
Pero nangakig gid ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag ang mga Pariseo, gani nag-estorya sila kon ano ang himuon nila kay Jesus.
Sang sadto nga panahon, nagtaklad si Jesus sa bukid para magpangamuyo. Kag nagpangamuyo siya didto sa sulod sang isa gid ka gab-i.
Pagkaaga gintawag niya ang iya mga sumulunod, kag nagpili siya sa ila sang dose, kag gintawag niya sila nga mga apostoles.
Ang ila mga ngalan amo si Simon (nga gin-ngalanan ni Jesus nga Pedro), si Andres nga iya utod, si Santiago, si Juan, si Felipe, si Bartolome,
si Mateo, si Tomas, si Santiago nga anak ni Alfeus, si Simon (nga sang una rebelde sa gobyerno sang Roma),
si Judas nga anak sang isa pa ka Santiago, kag si Judas Iscariote
Pagkatapos sadto, Pagkatapos sadto, nagdulhog sila sa patag. Nagtilipon didto ang iya mga sumulunod kag ang madamo nga tawo nga halin sa mga banwa sang Judea kag sa Jerusalem. May mga tawo man didto nga halin pa sa Tyre kag Sidon nga malapit sa dagat.
Nagkadto sila didto para magpamati sa mga ginatudlo ni Jesus kag magpabulong sang ila mga masakit. Ang mga tawo nga ginapaantos sang mahigko nga mga espiritu gin-ayo man niya.
Kag ang tanan nga tawo didto nagatinguha gid nga makatandog sa iya, kay may gahom nga nagaguwa sa iya nga nagaayo sa ila tanan.
kay sakop kamo sa paghari sang Dios.
kay magakadlaw kamo.
kag pakalainon ang inyo ngalan.
“Amo man ini ang ginhimo sang ila mga katigulangan sa mga propeta sang una. Gani kon himuon nila ini sa inyo, magkalipay gid kamo tungod nga mabaton ninyo ang dako nga balos sa langit.
kay naangkon na ninyo ang inyo kalipay.
kay magaabot ang adlaw nga magapangasubo kamo kag magahilibion.
sa mga indi matuod nga mga propeta.
“Pero kamo nga nagapamati sa akon, nagasiling ako sa inyo nga higugmaa ninyo ang inyo mga kaaway kag maghimo sang maayo sa mga wala nagahigugma sa inyo.
Pakamaayuha ang mga nagapakamalaot sa inyo, kag pangamuyui ang mga nagaabusar sa inyo.
Kon tampaon ka sa isa ka guya, itaya mo pa gid ang pihak mo nga guya. Kon may magkuha sang imo bayo, ihatag pati ang imo pangtabon nga panapton.
Hatagi ang bisan sin-o nga nagapangayo sa imo; kag kon may magkuha sang imo pagkabutang indi na pagbawia.
Himua ninyo sa inyo isigkatawo ang luyag ninyo nga himuon man nila sa inyo.
“Kon ang nagahigugma sa inyo amo lang ang inyo ginahigugma, makabaton bala kamo sang balos halin sa Dios? Indi gid! halin sa Dios? Indi gid! Kay bisan pa ang mga makasasala nagahigugma man sa mga nagahigugma sa ila.
Kag kon nagahimo kamo sing maayo sa mga tawo lang nga maayo sa inyo, makabaton bala kamo sing balos halin sa Dios halin sa Dios ? Bisan ang mga makasasala nagahimo man sina.
Kon nagapahulam kamo sa mga tawo nga ginaekspektar ninyo nga makabayad, makabaton bala kamo sang balos halin sa Dios halin sa Dios ? Bisan ang mga makasasala nagapahulam man sa ila kapareho nga mga makasasala basta nahibaluan nila nga makabayad sila.
Amo ini ang inyo himuon: Higugmaa ninyo ang inyo mga kaaway kag himua ang maayo sa ila. Kon magpahulam kamo, pahulamon ninyo nga wala nagapaabot nga bayaran kamo. Kon amo ini ang inyo ginahimo, mabaton ninyo ang dako nga balos kag takos kamo nga tawgon nga mga anak sang Labing Mataas nga Dios. Kay siya maayo gid bisan pa sa mga tawo nga malain kag wala sing kabalaslan.
Magmaluluy-on kamo pareho sang inyo Amay.
“Indi ninyo paghukman ang iban para indi man kamo paghukman sang Dios sang Dios . Indi kamo magsiling nga dapat sila silutan, para indi man kamo pagsilutan sang Dios sang Dios . Patawara ninyo ang mga nakasala sa inyo para patawaron man kamo sang Dios sang Dios .
Maghatag kamo para pagahatagan man kamo sang Dios sang Dios . Kon maghatag ang Dios sa inyo, ginasukob gid niya sing maayo, ginauyog, ginadasok, kag nagaawas pa antes ibubo sa inyo suludlan. Kay kon paano ang inyo paghatag sa iban amo man ina ang paghatag sang Dios sang Dios sa inyo.”
Pagkatapos sadto ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sini nga paanggid, “Wala sing bulag nga sarang makatuytoy sa iya kapareho nga bulag, kay sila nga duha mahulog sa kanal.
Wala sing estudyante nga labaw pa sa iya maestro, pero kon natudluan gid siya sing maayo kag nakatapos sang iya pagtuon, magapareho man siya sa iya maestro.
“Ngaa ginahimutaran mo gid ang gamay nga puling sa mata sang imo isigkatawo, pero wala mo gani ginasapak ang imo puling nga daw troso kadako?
Paano ka makasiling sa iya, ‘Abi, kuhaon ko ang imo puling,’ kon indi mo gani makita ang imo puling nga daw troso kadako? Hipokrito! Kuhaa anay ang puling nga daw troso kadako sa imo mata, para masanag ang imo pagkuha sang gamay nga puling sa mata sang imo isigkatawo.
“Ang maayo nga kahoy wala nagapamunga sang malain, kag ang malain nga kahoy wala nagapamunga sang maayo.
Ang tagsa ka kahoy makilala mo sa iya bunga. Ang tunukon nga kahoy-kahoy wala nagapamunga sang higos
Ang tawo pareho sina Ang tawo pareho sina . Ang maayo nga tawo nagahambal sang maayo kay maayo ang iya tagipusuon. Pero ang malain nga tawo nagahambal sang malain kay malain ang iya tagipusuon. Kon ano ang sa tagipusuon sang tawo amo man ang nagaguwa sa iya baba.
“Ngaa nagatawag kamo sa akon, ‘Ginoo’? Wala man kamo nagatuman sang ginasiling ko sa inyo.
Ipakita ko sa inyo ang halimbawa sang tawo nga nagapalapit sa akon, kag nagapamati kag nagatuman sang akon mga ginatudlo.
Pareho siya sang isa ka tawo nga nagkutkot sing madalom kag nagpatindog sang balay sa pundasyon nga bato. Sang nag-awas ang suba kag nagbaha, gin-agyan sang tubig ang balay, pero wala gid ini maano tungod kay mapag-on ang iya pundasyon.
Pero ang tawo nga nakabati sang akon mga ginatudlo pero wala nagatuman, pareho siya sa isa ka tawo nga nagpatindog sang balay nga wala sing mapag-on nga pundasyon. Pag-awas sang suba, gin-agyan sang tubig ang balay. Natumba dayon ini kag nawasak.”
Pagkatapos panudlo ni Jesus sa mga tawo, nagkadto siya sa Capernaum.
May kapitan didto sang mga soldado nga Romanhon nga may ulipon nga nagamasakit kag daw mapatay na. Palangga gid niya ang iya ulipon.
Gani pagkabati sang kapitan parte kay Jesus, ginsugo niya ang pila ka manugdumala sang mga Judio sa pagpangabay kay Jesus nga magkadto didto sa iya balay didto sa iya balay kag ayuhon ang iya ulipon.
Pag-abot nila kay Jesus nagpakitluoy gid sila sa iya. Nagsiling sila, “Kon mahimo buligi ang kapitan, kay maayo gid siya nga tawo.
Palangga niya kita nga mga Judio kag nagpatindog pa gani siya sang simbahan para sa aton.”
Gani nag-upod si Jesus sa ila. Sang malapit na sila sa balay sang kapitan, ginsugo sang kapitan ang pila ka amigo niya para sugataon si Jesus kag silingon, “Ginoo, indi na pagpabudlayi ang imo kaugalingon. Indi ako takos nga magpasulod sa imo sa akon balay.
Amo gani nga indi ako ang nagkadto sa imo kay indi ako takos nga magpalapit sa imo. Maghambal ka lang kag magaayo ang akon suluguon.
Nahibaluan ko ini tungod kay ako sa idalom man sang mga opisyal, kag may mga soldado man sa idalom ko. Gani kon magmando ako sa isa, ‘Lakat,’ nagalakat siya, kag kon magmando ako sa isa, ‘Kadto diri,’ nagakadto siya. Kag kon ano ang akon ginasugo sa akon ulipon, ginahimo niya.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Jesus natingala gid siya. Nag-atubang siya sa mga tawo nga nagaupod sa iya kag nagsiling, “Wala pa gid ako nakakita sang tawo sa Israel nga may pagtuo nga pareho sini.”
Ang mga ginpadala sang kapitan nagbalik sa iya balay kag pag-abot nila, nakita nila nga maayo na ang ulipon.
Sang wala madugay nagkadto si Jesus sa banwa sang Nain. Nag-upod sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod kag ang madamo nga tawo.
Sang malapit na sila sa puwertahan sang banwa sang Nain sang Nain , nasugata nila ang madamo nga tawo nga nagakumpanyar. Ang napatay bugtong nga anak sang balo nga babayi.
Pagkakita ni Ginoong Jesus Jesus sa iloy sang napatay, naluoy gid siya. Siling niya, “Indi ka maghibi.”
Dayon nagpalapit si Jesus sa ginakargahan sang patay kag gintandog niya para magpundo ang mga nagadala sini. Nagsiling si Jesus sa patay, “Noy, magbangon ka!”
Nagbangon ang patay, nagpungko kag naghambal. Dayon ginhatag siya ni Jesus sa iya iloy.
Sang makita ato sang mga tawo natingala gid sila, kag gindayaw nila ang Dios. Nagsiling sila, “Gindumdom sang Dios ang iya katawhan. Ginhatagan niya kita sang gamhanan nga propeta.”
Ang balita parte sa ginhimo ni Jesus naglapnag sa bilog nga Judea kag sa tanan nga lugar sa palibot sini.
Ini tanan nga hitabo ginbalita kay Juan sang iya mga sumulunod.
Gani gintawag ni Juan ang duha sang iya mga sumulunod kag ginsugo niya nga magkadto sa Ginoo sa pagpamangkot, “Ikaw bala ang amon ginapaabot ukon mahulat pa kami sang iban?”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Magbalik kamo kay Juan kag sugiri ninyo siya sang inyo nakita kag nabatian. Sugiri ninyo siya nga ang mga bulag nakakita, ang mga piang nakalakat, ang mga may delikado nga balatian sa panit
Sang makahalin na ang mga ginsugo ni Juan, nagpamangkot si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Sang pagkadto ninyo kay Juan sa kamingawan, ano ang inyo ginapaabot nga makita? Nagkadto bala kamo didto para makita ninyo ang tawo nga nagapaayon-ayon lang pareho sang tawo nga nagapaayon-ayon lang pareho sang kugon nga ginahapay-hapay sang hangin?
Ukon nagkadto bala kamo didto para makita ninyo ang tawo nga nagabayo sang malahalon? Pero ang mga nagabayo sang malahalon kag nagapagusto sang ila pangabuhi nagaestar sa mga palasyo.
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, hasta subong wala pa gid sing may natawo nga maglabaw pa kay Juan. Pero karon ang bisan sin-o nga labing kubos sa mga nagapasakop sa paghari sang Dios mas labaw pa kay Juan.”
Pagkabati sang mga tawo, pati sang mga manugsukot sang buhis sa mga pagpanudlo ni Jesus, nagkomporme sila sa ginapahimo sang Dios, kay ini sila nagpabautiso na kay Juan.
Pero ang mga Pariseo kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan wala nagkomporme sa katuyuan sang Dios para sa ila, kay ini sila wala magpabautiso kay Juan.
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Sa ano ko bala ipaanggid ang mga tawo mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon?
Pareho sila sa mga bata nga nagapungko sa plasa nga nagahampang nga nagahampang . Ang isa ka grupo nagasiling sa isa, ‘Gintukaran namon kamo sang sunata nga para sa kasal, pero wala kamo magsaot. Ginkantahan namon kamo sang kanta nga para sa patay, pero wala man kamo maghibi!’
Kamo pareho man sa ila, Kamo pareho man sa ila, kay sang pag-abot ni Juan, nakita ninyo nga nagapuasa siya kag wala nagainom sang bino, gani nagasiling kamo nga ginagamhan siya sang demonyo.
Kag ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo, pag-abot ko, nakita ninyo nga nagakaon kag nagainom, gani nagasiling kamo nga palakaon ako kag palainom. Nagasiling man kamo nga abyan ako sang mga manugsukot sang buhis kag sang iban pa nga iban pa nga mga makasasala.
Pero indi bali, ang mga tawo nga nagasunod sa kabubut-on sang Dios nagakomporme nga husto ang ginapahimo sang Dios sa amon.”
Karon, may isa ka Pariseo nga nag-agda kay Jesus nga magkaon sa iya balay. Gani nagkadto si Jesus kag nagkaon didto.
Sa sina nga banwa may isa ka babayi nga kilala gid nga makasasala. Pagkabati niya nga didto si Jesus sa balay sang Pariseo nagkadto man siya didto. May dala siya nga pahamot nga nasulod sa tibod-tibod nga hinimo halin sa bato nga bato nga alabastro.
Nagpalapit siya sa likod ni Jesus, sa may tiilan dampi.
Sang pagkakita sadto sang Pariseo nga nag-agda kay Jesus, nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, “Kon ini nga tawo matuod nga propeta, kuntani nahibaluan niya kon sin-o kag kon ano nga klase sang babayi ang nagatandog sa iya, kay ang babayi nga ina makasasala.”
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus kon ano ang ara sa iya hunahuna, gani nagsiling siya, “Simon, may isugid ako sa imo.” Nagsabat si Simon, “Ano ina, manunudlo?”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “May duha ka tawo nga nag-utang sang kuwarta sa manugpautang. Ang isa nag-utang 500, kag ang isa 50.
Sang ulihi, tungod nga indi sila makabayad, wala na lang sila pagpabayara sang nagpautang sa ila. Ti, sin-o ayhan sa ila nga duha ang magahigugma sing labi sa ila nautangan?”
Nagsabat si Simon, “Siguro ang may dako nga utang.” Nagsiling si Jesus, “Husto ang imo pagbinagbinag.”
Dayon ginbalikid niya ang babayi kag nagsiling kay Simon, “Nakita mo bala ang ginhimo sang babayi nga ini? Pagsulod ko diri sa imo balay wala mo ako paghatagi sang tubig nga inughugas sa akon tiil. Pero ang babayi nga ini, ginhugasan niya ang akon tiil paagi sa iya luha, kag ang iya buhok amo pa ang ginhimo niya nga inugpahid.
Wala mo ako paghaluki bilang pag-abiabi bilang pag-abiabi . Pero ini nga babayi, halin pa sang akon pag-abot diri wala untat ang iya paghalok sa akon tiil.
Wala mo pagpatului sang lana ang akon ulo bilang pagbaton mo sa akon bilang pagbaton mo sa akon , pero ini nga babayi, ang malahalon gid nga pahamot ang iya ginbubo sa akon tiil.
Gani sugiran ko ikaw, nga ang dako nga gugma nga ginpakita niya sa akon nagapamatuod nga ang iya madamo nga sala ginpatawad na; pero sa tawo nga diutay lang ang sala nga ginpatawad, diutay lang ang paghigugma nga iya ginapakita.”
Naghambal dayon si Jesus sa babayi, “Ginpatawad na ang imo mga sala.”
Ang mga nagakaon kaupod ni Jesus nagsiling sa ila kaugalingon, “Sin-o bala ini nga bisan ang mga sala mapatawad niya?”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa babayi, “Ang imo pagtuo nagluwas sa imo. Magpuli ka nga may kalinong.”
Pagkatapos sadto, naglibot si Jesus sa mga banwa kag mga baryo nga nagawali sang Maayong Balita parte sa paghari sang Dios. Upod sa iya ang dose ka apostoles ka apostoles ,
kag ang iban nga mga babayi nga iya gin-ayo sa malain nga mga espiritu kag mga balatian. Ang isa sa ila amo si Maria nga taga-Magdala nga pito gid ka demonyo ang ginpaguwa sa iya.
Upod man nila amo si Juana nga asawa ni Cuza nga amo ang ginasaligan ni Herodes sa iya palasyo sa iya palasyo . Si Susana isa man sa ila kag may madamo pa gid nga mga babayi. Amo ini sila ang nagahatag sang mga kinahanglanon nila ni Jesus halin sa ila pagkabutang.
May adlaw nga madamo gid nga mga tawo halin sa mga banwa ang padayon nga nag-inabot kag nagtilipon kay Jesus. Ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sini nga paanggid:
“May isa ka mangunguma nga nagsab-og sang binhi. Sa iya pagsab-og, ang iban nagtupa sa higad sang dalan, kag natapakan ini sang mga nagaalagi kag gintuka sang mga pispis.
Ang iban nagtupa sa kabatuhan. Nagtubo ini pero nalaya dayon kay mala ang duta.
Ang iban nagtupa sa duta nga may mga tunukon nga hilamon, kag dungan nga nagtubo ining hilamon kag ang binhi. Gani sang ulihi nalumos sang hilamon ang nagtubo nga binhi.
Ang iban nagtupa sa maayo nga duta, nagtubo kag nagpamunga sing 100 ka pilo.” Nagsiling pa si Jesus sa ila, “Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian.”
Ginpamangkot siya sang iya mga sumulunod kon ano ang kahulugan sang sadto nga paanggid.
indi sila makaintiendi.’ ”
Dayon ginpaathag ni Jesus Dayon ginpaathag ni Jesus ang kahulugan sang paanggid. Nagsiling siya, “Ang binhi amo ang pulong sang Dios.
Ang higad sang dalan nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nakabati sang pulong sang Dios sang pulong sang Dios , pero nag-abot ang yawa kag ginkuha niya ang pulong sa ila mga tagipusuon, para indi sila magtuo kag maluwas.
Ang kabatuhan nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nakabati man sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios kag ginbaton nila nga may kalipay, pero indi hugot sa ila mga tagipusuon. Gani wala magdugay ang ila pagtuo, kay sang pag-abot sang mga pagtilaw nagtalikod sila dayon.
Ang duta nga may mga tunukon nga hilamon nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nakabati sang pulong sang Dios sang pulong sang Dios , pero nadaog sila sang ila mga palaligban, mga manggad, kag mga kalipayan sa sini nga kalibutan, gani wala sila nagpamunga.
Pero ang maayo nga duta nga gintup-an sang binhi amo ang mga tawo nga nagpamati sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios , kag ginatipigan nila ini sa ila maayo kag sinsero nga mga tagipusuon kag nagatinguha sila sa pagtuman sini hasta nga nagpamunga ini sa ila kabuhi sa ila kabuhi .”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Wala sing may nagasindi sang suga kag takluban lang dayon sang suludlan ukon ibutang lang sa idalom sang katre, kundi ginabutang ini sa tulungtungan para masanagan ang mga nagasulod sa balay sa balay .
Amo man ina nga wala sing tinago nga indi magguwa sa ulihi, kag wala sing sekreto nga indi mahibaluan kag mabuyagyag.
“Gani pamatii ninyo ako sing maayo, kay ang tawo nga nagatuman sang iya nabatian nga kamatuoran pagahatagan pa gid sang pag-intiendi. Pero ang tawo nga wala nagatuman sa kamatuoran, bisan ang ginahunahuna niya nga iya naintiendihan, kuhaon pa sa iya.”
Karon, nag-abot ang iloy kag ang mga utod ni Jesus. Tungod sa kadamuon sang mga tawo indi sila makapalapit sa iya.
Gani may nagsugid kay Jesus, “Ang imo iloy kag mga utod nagahulat sa guwa. Gusto nila nga magpakigkita sa imo.”
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ang mga nagapamati kag nagatuman sang pulong sang Dios amo ang akon iloy kag mga utod.”
Isa sadto ka adlaw nagsakay si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa sakayan. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Dali, matabok kita sa pihak sang dagat.”
Samtang nagabiyahe sila natulugan si Jesus. Hinali lang nga nagbaskog ang hangin kag sige sulod ang tubig sa ila sakayan. Tama na gid ka delikado ang ila kahimtangan.
Gani ginpalapitan nila si Jesus kag ginpukaw, “Manunudlo!
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Diin bala ang inyo pagtuo?” Natingala gid ang iya mga sumulunod nga may kakulba. Siling nila sa isa kag isa, “Sin-o gid ayhan ini nga bisan ang hangin kag ang mga balod ginamanduan niya kag nagatuman sa iya?”
Nagpadayon sila sa pagbiyahe hasta nakaabot sila sa lugar sang mga Gerasenhon
Pagtakas ni Jesus, ginsugata siya sang isa ka tawo nga ginagamhan sang mga demonyo. Ini nga tawo permi lang nagauba kag wala nagapuli sa iya balay sa banwa. Didto siya nagaestar sa mga kuweba nga kuweba nga lulubngan.
Sang makita niya si Jesus nagsinggit siya kag nagluhod sa atubangan niya. Dayon naghambal siya sa mabaskog nga tingog, “Jesus, Anak sang Labing Mataas nga Dios, ano ang imo labot sa akon? Nagapakitluoy ako sa imo nga indi mo ako pagsilutan.”
Amo ini ang ginsiling niya tungod kay ginsugo na ni Jesus ang mahigko nga espiritu nga magguwa sa iya. Kapila siya ka beses nga sudlan sang espiritu. Kag bisan ginagapos sang mga tawo ang iya mga kamot kag tiil sang mga kadena, kag ginabantayan gid siya, ginapamugto lang niya ini, kag ginadala siya sang demonyo sa kamingawan.
Ginpamangkot siya ni Jesus, “Sin-o ang imo ngalan?” Nagsabat siya, “Ako si Panong.” Amo ina ang sabat niya tungod kay madamo ang mga demonyo nga nagsulod sa iya.
Kag nagpakitluoy ang mga demonyo nga indi lang sila pagtabugon sa kadadalman nga sa diin sila silutan nga sa diin sila silutan .
Malapit didto, may madamo nga baboy nga nagakaon sa banglid. Nagpakitluoy kay Jesus ang mga demonyo nga tugutan na lang sila nga magsulod sa mga baboy. Kag gintugutan sila ni Jesus.
Gani nagguwa ang mga demonyo sa tawo kag nagsulod sa mga baboy. Dayon nagdinaguso ang mga baboy padulhog sa banglid deretso sa tubig kag nagkalalumos.
Sang makita sang mga manugsagod sang mga baboy ang natabo, nagdinalagan sila, kag ginpanugid nila ini sa mga tawo sa banwa kag sa kaumahan.
Gani nagkadto ang mga tawo kay Jesus kay gusto nila nga makita ang natabo. Pag-abot nila didto, nakita nila ang tawo nga sadto anay gin-gamhan sang mga demonyo. Nagapungko siya sa tiilan ni Jesus nga may bayo kag husto na ang iya paminsaron. Gani hinadlukan sila.
Ang mga nakakita sa natabo nagsugid sa mga tawo kon paano nag-ayo ang tawo nga gin-gamhan anay sang mga demonyo.
Dayon ang tanan nga Gerasenhon
Ang tawo nga gin-gamhan anay sang mga demonyo nagpakitluoy kay Jesus nga mag-upod sa iya. Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa iya,
“Magpuli ka sa inyo kag isugid mo ang mga ginhimo sang Dios sa imo.” Gani nagpuli ang tawo, kag naglibot siya sa bilog nga banwa nga nagapanugid sang tanan nga ginhimo ni Jesus sa iya.
Sang pagdungka ni Jesus sa tabok sang dagat, nalipay gid ang mga tawo sa pag-abiabi sa iya tungod kay tanan sila nagapaabot sa iya.
Dugay-dugay may nag-abot nga tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Jairus. Isa siya ka manugdumala sang simbahan sang mga Judio. Sang pagpalapit niya kay Jesus nagluhod siya kag nagpakitluoy nga magkadto siya didto sa iya balay,
tungod kay daw mapatay na ang iya bugtong nga bata. Ining babayi nga bata nagaedad sang dose ka tuig. Sang nagapakadto sila ni Jesus sa balay ni Jairus, nagadinaguso ang madamo nga tawo sa iya.
Karon, may babayi didto nga ginapangguwaan sang dugo sa sulod sang dose na ka tuig. Naubos na niya gasto ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang sa pagpabulong.
Nagdasok siya sa mga tawo hasta nakapalapit siya sa likod ni Jesus. Dayon gintandog niya ang gaway-gaway
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Sin-o ang nagtandog sa akon?” Tanan sila naghambal nga wala sila makatandog sa iya. Gani nagsiling si Pedro, “Manunudlo, nahibaluan mo man nga kadamo sang tawo nga nagadinas-ukanay sa imo palibot.”
Pero nagsabat si Jesus, “May nagtandog gid sa akon, tungod nga nabatyagan ko nga may gahom nga nagguwa sa akon.”
Sang matalupangdan sang babayi nga nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ginhimo niya, nagpalapit siya nga nagakurog kag nagluhod kay Jesus. Sa atubangan sang tanan ginsugid niya kay Jesus kon ngaa gintandog niya siya kag kon paano siya nag-ayo dayon.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Anak, ang imo pagtuo nag-ayo
Samtang nagahambal pa siya sa babayi may nag-abot halin sa balay ni Jairus. Siling niya kay Jairus kay Jairus , “Patay na ang imo bata. Indi na pagdisturbuha ang manunudlo.”
Pero pagkabati sadto ni Jesus nagsiling siya kay Jairus, “Indi ka magkahadlok, magtuo ka lang kag magaayo siya.”
Pag-abot nila sa balay ni Jairus wala niya pagtuguti ang iban nga mag-upod sa iya sa sulod luwas lang sa ila ni Pedro, Juan, kag Santiago, kag ang amay kag iloy sang bata.
Sige ang hinibi sang mga tawo didto. Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi kamo maghibi, kay indi patay ang bata kundi nagakatulog lang.”
Ginkadlawan nila si Jesus tungod kay nahibaluan nila nga patay na gid ang bata.
Nagpalapit si Jesus sa bata kag gin-uyatan niya ang kamot kag nagsiling, “Day, magbangon ka!”
Kag dayon nagbalik ang iya espiritu kag nagbangon siya gilayon. Nagsugo si Jesus nga pakan-on ang bata.
Natingala gid ang iya mga ginikanan, pero ginmanduan sila ni Jesus nga indi gid magpanugid sa bisan kay sin-o parte sa natabo.
Gintipon ni Jesus ang dose niya ka apostoles niya ka apostoles . Ginhatagan niya sila sang awtoridad kag gahom sa pagtabog sang tanan nga demonyo kag sa pagpang-ayo sang mga balatian.
Dayon ginsugo niya sila nga magpangwali parte sa paghari sang Dios kag magpang-ayo sang mga masakiton sang mga masakiton .
Ginsilingan niya sila, “Indi kamo magbalon sang bisan ano sa inyo pagpanglakaton: bisan baston, bag, pagkaon, kuwarta, ukon ilislan nga bayo.
Pero kon ang mga tawo sa isa ka lugar indi magbaton sa inyo, bayai ninyo ina nga lugar; kag sa paghalin ninyo, taktaka ninyo ang yab-ok sa inyo tiil bilang paandam kontra sa ila.”
Dayon naglakat ang iya mga apostoles kag naglibot sa mga baryo nga nagawali sang Maayong Balita kag nagapang-ayo sang mga masakiton.
Ang balita parte sa ginahimo nila ni Jesus nakaabot kay Herodes nga pangulo sang Galilea sang Galilea . Naglibog gid ang ulo ni Herodes kay may mga tawo nga nagasiling, “Nabanhaw si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso .”
May iban man nga nagasiling, “Siya si Propeta Propeta Elias sang una nga nag-abot subong.” Kag may iban pa gid nga nagasiling, “Nabanhaw ang isa sa mga propeta.”
Nagsiling si Herodes, “Ginpapugutan ko sing ulo si Juan. Pero sin-o ayhan ini nga tawo? Kay makatilingala nga mga butang ang akon nabatian parte sa iya.” Gani nagtinguha gid si Herodes nga makita niya si Jesus.
Pagbalik sang mga apostoles ni Jesus, ginsugid nila sa iya kon ano ang ila mga nahimo. Dayon gindala sila ni Jesus sa banwa sang Betsaida. Wala siya sing may ginpaupod nga iban.
Pero pagkahibalo sang mga tawo nga nakahalin na sila ni Jesus, nagsunod sila. Pag-abot nila didto, Pag-abot nila didto, ginbaton sila ni Jesus kag ginhambalan parte sa paghari sang Dios. Kag ginpang-ayo man niya ang mga masakiton.
Sang lapit na lang magsalop ang adlaw, nagpalapit sa iya ang iya iya dose ka apostoles ka apostoles kag nagsiling, “Palakta na ang mga tawo sa mga baryo kag sa mga sityo sa palibot para makapangita sila sang ila pagkaon kag tululugan, kay ari kita diri sa kamingawan.”
Pero nagsiling si Jesus, “Kamo mismo ang maghatag sang pagkaon sa ila.” Nagsabat sila, “Lima gid lang ka bilog ang aton tinapay kag duha ka isda. Indi ini makaigo, luwas kon magbakal kita sang pagkaon para sa ila tanan.”
(Ang kadamuon sang mga lalaki lang mga 5,000.) Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Papungkua ninyo ang mga tawo sing grupo-grupo, tag-50 kada grupo.”
Gintuman nila ang sugo ni Jesus kag ginpapungko nila ang tanan nga tawo.
Dayon ginkuha ni Jesus ang lima ka tinapay kag duha ka isda, kag nagtangla siya sa langit kag nagpasalamat sa Dios sa Dios . Pagkatapos ginpamihak-pihak niya ang tinapay kag ginhatag sa iya mga sumulunod para ipanagtag sa mga tawo.
Nakakaon sila tanan kag nagkalabusog. Dayon gintipon nila ang mga nabilin, kag dose pa ka alat ang napuno.
Isa ka adlaw nagapangamuyo si Jesus nga siya lang. Ang iya mga sumulunod ara sa iya tupad. Nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “Suno sa mga tawo, sin-o bala ako?”
Nagsabat sila, “May nagasiling nga ikaw si Juan nga manugbautiso. Ang iban nagasiling nga ikaw si Elias, kag ang iban pa gid nagasiling nga ikaw isa sa mga propeta sang una nga nabanhaw.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Pero suno sa inyo sin-o bala ako?” Nagsabat si Pedro, “Ikaw ang Cristo nga ginpromisa sang Dios nga magahari.”
Dayon ginmanduan sila ni Jesus nga indi gid sila magpanugid bisan kay sin-o nga siya amo ang Cristo.
Nagsiling siya, “ Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo kinahanglan gid nga mag-antos sa pagahimuon sa akon sang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, sang manugdumala nga mga pari, kag sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Sikwayon nila ako kag patyon, pero sa ikatlo nga adlaw mabanhaw ako.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa tanan nga tawo didto, “Kon may tawo nga gusto magsunod sa akon, indi niya dapat pagpasulabihon ang iya kaugalingon. Kag dapat handa siya sa pag-atubang sa kamatayon
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga luyag magluwas sang iya kabuhi madula niya ini. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga maghalad sang iya kabuhi tungod sa akon makaangkon sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga nagakahuya sa akon kag sa akon mga ginatudlo, igakahuya ko man kon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magbalik na nga nagasilak sa gahom nga halin sa akon kag sa Amay kag sa balaan nga mga anghel.
Sa pagkamatuod, may mga tawo diri nga indi pa mapatay hasta makita nila ang paghari sang Dios.”
Mga walo ka adlaw pagkatapos nga ginhambal ni Jesus ini, gindala niya si Pedro, si Juan, kag si Santiago pataklad sa bukid para magpangamuyo.
Sang nagapangamuyo si Jesus nagbalhin ang iya dagway, kag ang iya bayo nagputi gid kag masilaw.
Hinali lang may nagpakita nga duha ka tawo nga nagapakighambal sa iya. Sila amo si Moises kag si Elias.
Nagasilak man sila kag nagapakighambal sila kay Jesus parte sa iya kamatayon nga madali na lang matuman sa Jerusalem.
Nagakatulog sila ni Pedro sing mahamuok. Pero nakamata sila, kag nakita nila si Jesus nga nagasilak kag ang duha ka tawo nga nagatindog sa iya tupad.
Sang manughalin na ang duha ka tawo kay Jesus, nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Manunudlo,
Wala pa makatapos hambal si Pedro ginlikupan sila sang panganod. Hinadlukan sila ni Pedro sang magtabon sa ila ang panganod.
Dayon may nabatian sila nga tingog halin sa panganod nga nagasiling, “Amo ini ang akon pinili nga Anak. Pamatii ninyo siya!”
Sang nag-untat na ang tingog, nakita nila nga si Jesus na lang ang nabilin. Ginhipsan lang anay nila ni Pedro ang ila nakita pagkasunod nga mga inadlaw.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagdulhog sila halin sa bukid. Madamo nga tawo ang nagsugata kay Jesus.
Didto sa kadam-an may isa ka tawo nga nagsinggit, “Manunudlo, kon mahimo tan-awa anay ang akon bugtong nga bata nga lalaki.
Ginagamhan siya sang malain nga malain nga espiritu. Kon mag-abot gani, gulpi lang siya nagasiagit, nagakurog, kag nagabura ang iya baba. Indi maghalin sa iya ang espiritu kon indi niya anay masakit sing tudo gid ang akon bata.
Ginpangabay ko ang imo mga sumulunod nga tabugon ini, pero indi sila makasarang.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “ Kamo nga mga tawo sa Kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon wala gid sing pagtuo kag mga balingag. Hasta san-o pa bala ang akon pag-antos sa inyo? Dal-a diri ang imo bata.”
Sang nagapalapit kay Jesus ang bata, ginlampos siya sang demonyo sa duta kag ginpakurog. Pero gintabog ni Jesus ang mahigko nga espiritu kag gin-ayo niya ang bata. Dayon ginbalik niya siya sa iya amay.
Sang nagakatingala pa ang mga tawo sa tanan nga ginhimo ni Jesus, nagsiling siya sa iya mga sumulunod,
“Tandaan gid ninyo ini: Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo kinahanglan na
Pero wala sila makaintiendi sini kay ginlipod ini sa ila hunahuna para indi nila maintiendihan. Kag natahap sila magpamangkot sa iya parte sa sini nga butang.
May isa ka tion nga May isa ka tion nga nagbinaisay ang iya mga sumulunod kon sin-o gid sa ila ang labaw sa tanan.
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila ginahunahuna. Gani nagkuha siya sang gamay nga bata kag ginpatindog sa iya kilid.
Dayon nagsiling siya, “Ang bisan sin-o nga nagabaton sa bata nga pareho sini tungod sa akon,
Nagsiling si Juan kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, nakakita kami sang isa ka tawo nga nagatabog sang mga demonyo sa imo ngalan.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Pabay-i lang ninyo siya, kay ang bisan sin-o nga wala nagakontra sa inyo nagadampig sa inyo.”
Sang madali na lang ang adlaw nga si Jesus dal-on pa-langit, nagdesisyon siya nga magkadto na sa Jerusalem.
Gani may ginpauna siya nga mga tawo sa isa ka baryo sa Samaria para magpreparar sang iya dalayunan.
Pero ang mga tawo sa sadto nga baryo wala magbaton sa iya kay nahibaluan nila nga makadto siya sa Jerusalem.
Pagkahibalo sini sang iya mga sumulunod nga si Santiago kag si Juan, nagsiling sila kay Jesus, “Ginoo, luyag mo bala nga mangayo kami sang kalayo halin sa langit para sunugon sila?”
Pero ginbalikid sila ni Jesus kag ginsaway.
Kag nagderetso na lang sila sa iban nga baryo.
Sang nagapadayon sila sa ila pagpanglakaton, may isa ka tawo nga nagsiling kay Jesus, “Maupod ako sa imo bisan diin ka makadto.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa isa, “Upod ka sa akon!” Nagsabat ang tawo, “Ginoo, mapuli anay ako sa paglubong sang akon amay.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Pabay-i ang mga patay
May isa pa gid nga nagsiling kay Jesus, “Ginoo, maupod ako sa imo; pero tuguti ako anay nga magpuli kag maglisensya sa akon pamilya.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ang tawo nga nagaarado nga nagabulobalikid indi mapuslan ang iya pagpangalagad ang iya pagpangalagad sa idalom sang paghari sang Dios.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpili ang Ginoo sang 72
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Malapad ang alanihon pero diutay gid lang ang manug-ani. Gani magpangamuyo kamo sa Ginoo, ang tag-iya sang alanihon, nga magpadala siya sang mga manug-ani sa iya alanihon.
Lakat kamo! Pero mag-andam kamo, kay pareho kamo sa mga karnero nga akon ginapadala sa mabangis nga mga ido.
Indi kamo magdala sang kahita, bag, ukon sandalyas. Indi man kamo magdulog sa dalan kag magpanamyaw sa inyo masugata
Kon magsulod kamo sa isa ka balay, magsiling kamo, ‘Kabay nga bendisyunan sang Dios ini nga pamilya.’
Kag kon bagay sila nga magbaton sa inyo pagbendisyon, bendisyunan sila sang Dios. Pero kon indi, indi man sila pagbendisyunan sang Dios.
Magdayon kamo sa una nga balay nga nagabaton sa inyo, kag indi kamo magsaylo-saylo sang inyo dalayunan. Batuna ninyo ang ila ginapakaon sa inyo, kay ang nagapangabudlay dapat lang nga suhulan.
Kag kon diin kamo nga lugar magkadto nga ang mga tawo magabaton sa inyo, kauna ninyo ang bisan ano nga ila ginapakaon sa inyo.
Ayuha ninyo ang mga nagamasakit kag sugiri ninyo sila nga malapit na
Pero kon mag-abot kamo sa isa ka banwa nga ang mga tawo indi magbaton sa inyo, magkadto kamo sa mga karsada kag magsiling,
‘ Tungod nga indi kamo magbaton sa amon, Tungod nga indi kamo magbaton sa amon, bisan ang yab-ok sang inyo banwa nga nagatapik sa amon tiil amon taktakon bilang paandam kontra sa inyo. Tandai ninyo ini: malapit na ang paghari sang Dios.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Sugiran ko kamo, sa adlaw sang paghukom, mas labaw pa nga silot ang mabaton nila sang sa mga taga-Sodom.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Kaluluoy kamo nga mga taga-Corazin! Kaluluoy man kamo nga mga taga-Betsaida! Kay kon ang mga milagro nga akon ginhimo sa inyo ginhimo ko sa Tyre kag sa Sidon, dugay na kuntani sila nagsuksok sang sako kag nagbutang sang abo sa ila mga ulo sa pagpakita nga nagahinulsol sila sa ila mga sala.
Gani sa adlaw sang paghukom, mas labaw pa nga silot ang mabaton ninyo sang sa mga taga-Tyre kag taga-Sidon.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga inugpadala, Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga inugpadala, “Ang nagapamati sa inyo nagapamati man sa akon, kag ang nagasikway sa inyo nagasikway man sa akon, kag ang nagasikway sa akon nagasikway man sa nagpadala sa akon.”
Pagbalik sang 72 nga ginpadala sang Ginoo malipayon gid sila, kag nagsiling sila kay Jesus, “Ginoo, bisan ang mga demonyo nagtuman sa amon paagi sa imo ngalan!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Nakita ko ang pagkahulog ni Satanas halin sa langit nga daw kilat kadasig.
Ginhatagan ko kamo sang awtoridad para madaog ninyo ang mga demonyo kag ang tanan nga gahom sang aton kaaway nga si Satanas,
Pero indi kamo magkalipay tungod nga ang malain nga malain nga mga espiritu nagtuman sa inyo, kundi magkalipay kamo tungod nga ang inyo ngalan nasulat na didto sa langit.”
Sang sadto nga tion, ginlipay gid si Jesus sang Espiritu Santo. Nagsiling si Jesus, “Amay, nga tag-iya sang langit kag sang duta, ginadayaw ko ikaw tungod nga ang kamatuoran nga gintago mo sa mga tawo nga ginakabig nga mga tawo nga ginakabig nga mga maalam kag may mga tinun-an ginpahayag mo sa mga tawo nga pareho sang mga bata nga diutay ang kaalam nga diutay ang kaalam . Amay, salamat gid nga amo ina ang imo kabubut-on.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, Pagkatapos sadto, nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Ang tanan nga butang gintugyan sa akon sang akon Amay. Ang Amay lang ang nakakilala sa akon nga iya akon nga iya Anak. Kag ang nakakilala sa Amay ako gid lang nga iya Anak kag ang mga tawo nga buot ko nga ipakilala sa Amay.”
Dayon nag-atubang si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod kag naghambal sa ila nga silahanon lang, “Bulahan kamo tungod nga nakita gid ninyo ang mga butang nga akon ginapanghimo.
Sa pagkamatuod, madamo nga propeta kag mga hari sang una ang naghandom nga makakita kag makabati sang inyo nakita kag nabatian subong, pero wala natabo ini sa ila tiyempo.”
May isa didto ka manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga nagtindog kag nagpamangkot sa pagdakop-dakop kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, ano ang akon dapat himuon para maangkon ko ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ano bala ang ginasiling sang Kasuguan suno sa imo nabasahan?”
Nagsabat ang tawo, “Higugmaon mo ang Ginoo nga imo Dios sa bug-os mo nga tagipusuon, sa bug-os mo nga kalag, sa bug-os mo nga kusog, kag sa bug-os mo nga hunahuna.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Husto gid ang imo sabat. Himua ina para may kabuhi ka nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .”
Pero indi gusto sang manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga mahuy-an siya, gani nagpamangkot pa gid siya, “Sin-o bala ang akon kapareho?”
Ginsabat siya ni Jesus paagi sa isa ka estorya paagi sa isa ka estorya . Siling niya, “May isa ka tawo nga nagdulhog pa-Jerico halin sa Jerusalem. Samtang nagalakat siya, hinali lang nga ginbanggaan siya sang mga tulisan. Ginkuha nila ang iya pagkabutang pati ang iya bayo, ginbakol nila siya, kag ginbayaan nga lipong kag daw patay na.
Natabuan man nga may pari nga nagdulhog sa amo nga dalan. Pagkakita niya sang tawo nga nagahamyang nga nagahamyang , naglikaw siya sa pihak sang dalan kag gin-agyan lang niya siya.
Nag-agi man didto ang isa ka Levita. Pagkakita niya sang tawo naglikaw man siya kag nag-agi lang.
Sang ulihi may nakaagi nga Samariahanon. Pagkakita niya sa tawo nga ginbakol nga ginbakol naluoy gid siya.
Gani ginpalapitan niya siya kag ginbulong. Ginbutangan niya sang lana kag bino ang iya pilas kag ginbugkusan. Dayon ginpasakay niya siya sa iya ginasakyan nga sapat kag gindala sa isa ka dalayunan. Didto, gin-atipan pa gid niya siya.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, ginhatagan niya sing kuwarta ang tag-iya sang dalayunan kag nagsiling, ‘Atipanon mo siya, kag kon kulangon pa ang akon ginhatag sa imo dugangan ko lang ini sa akon pagbalik diri.’ ”
Dayon naghambal si Jesus sa manunudlo sang Kasuguan, Dayon naghambal si Jesus sa manunudlo sang Kasuguan, “Ti sa imo, sin-o bala sa ila nga tatlo ang nagpakita nga siya ang kapareho sang ginbanggaan sang mga tulisan?”
Nagsiling ang manunudlo sang Kasuguan, “Ang tawo nga nagpakita sang kaluoy sa iya.” Nagsiling dayon si Jesus, “Himua man ang pareho sang ginhimo niya.”
Nagpadayon sa paglakat si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod, kag nakaabot sila sa isa ka baryo. May babayi didto nga ang iya ngalan si Marta. Ginpadayon niya sila sa iya balay.
May utod siya nga si Maria nga nagpungko didto sa tiilan ni Ginoong Jesus kay gusto niya magpamati sang iya mga ginatudlo.
Pero si Marta nagapalibog gid sa paghimos sang pagkaon nila ni Jesus. Gani nagpalapit siya kay Jesus kag nagsiling, “Ginoo, wala lang bala sing kaso sa imo nga ginapabay-an lang ako sang akon utod sa paghimos sang pagkaon? Abi hambali man siya nga buligan niya ako!”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo sa iya, “Ikaw Marta, madamo nga butang ang imo ginapaligban.
Isa ka butang gid lang ang kinahanglan kag amo ini ang ginpili ni Maria nga labing maayo, kag wala sing may makakuha sini sa iya.”
Isa sadto ka adlaw, sang pagkatapos pangamuyo ni Jesus, ang isa sang iya mga sumulunod nagpalapit sa iya kag nagsiling, “Ginoo, si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso nagtudlo sa iya mga sumulunod sa pagpangamuyo. Tudlui man kami magpangamuyo.”
Kabay pa nga maghari ka diri sa amon.
Hatagi kami sang amon kinahanglanon nga pagkaon adlaw-adlaw.
Kag indi mo kami pag-ipadaog sa mga temtasyon.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, “Abi kon may amigo ka, kag sa tungang gab-i magkadto ka sa iya balay kag magsiling sa iya, ‘Amigo, pahulama ako anay sang pagkaon,
kay may amigo ako nga bag-o lang nag-abot kag wala gid ako sang ipakaon sa iya.’
Dayon magsabat siya sa sulod, ‘Indi na ako pagdisturbuha. Nasiradhan na namon ang puwertahan kag nagahigda na ako kag ang akon mga bata, gani mabudlay na sa akon ang pagbangon para hatagan ka.’
Pero ang matuod, bisan daw indi siya magbangon kag maghatag sa imo, bisan amigohay pa kamo, magabangon gid siya kag magahatag sang imo ginakinahanglan tungod kay wala ka nagahuyahuya sa pagpilit sa iya.
Gani ginasilingan ko kamo: Magpangayo kamo sa Dios sa Dios kag hatagan niya niya kamo. Pangitaa ninyo sa iya ang inyo ginapangita sa iya ang inyo ginapangita kag makita ninyo. Magpanuktok kamo kag pagabuksan niya niya kamo.
Kamo nga mga ginikanan,
Kon magpangayo siya sang itlog, hatagan bala ninyo sang iwi-iwi? Siyempre indi! Siyempre indi!
Ti kon kamo nga mga malain makahibalo maghatag sang maayo nga mga butang sa inyo mga bata, daw ano pa gid ang inyo Amay sa langit! Ihatag gid niya ang Espiritu Santo sa mga nagapangayo sa iya.”
Isa sadto ka tion nagtabog si Jesus sang demonyo nga nagsulod sa isa ka tawo nga nangin kabangdanan sang iya pagkaapa. Sang napaguwa niya ang demonyo, nakahambal dayon ang apa. Natingala gid ang mga tawo.
Pero may mga tawo didto nga nagsiling, “Nagatabog siya sang mga demonyo paagi sa gahom nga ginhatag sa iya ni Satanas
Ang iban didto gusto nga tilawan si Jesus, gani nagpangayo sila sa iya sang milagro halin sa Dios
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila hunahuna, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kon ang mga pumuluyo sang mga pumuluyo sang isa ka ginharian magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway, ina nga ginharian malaglag. Amo man ang matabo sa panimalay kon ang mga nagaestar dira ang mga nagaestar dira magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway.
Gani kon si Satanas kag ang iya mga sakop magbinahin-bahin kag mag-ilinaway, paano makapadayon ang iya ginharian? Kay nagasiling man bala kamo nga nagatabog ako sang mga demonyo paagi sa gahom nga ginhatag sa akon ni Satanas.
Kon si Satanas ang nagahatag sa akon sang gahom para magtabog sang mga demonyo, sin-o ang nagahatag sang gahom sa inyo mga sumulunod nga nagatabog man sang mga demonyo? Ang inyo mga sumulunod mismo nagapamatuod nga sala gid kamo.
Karon, tungod kay nagatabog ako sang mga demonyo paagi sa gahom sang Dios, nagapamatuod ini nga ang paghari sang Dios nag-abot na sa inyo.”
Ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sang isa pa ka paanggid, Ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sang isa pa ka paanggid, “Kon nagaguwardya ang makusog nga tawo sa iya balay, nga kompleto ang armas, indi gid maano ang iya mga pagkabutang.
Pero kon sulungon siya sang mas makusog pa sang sa iya, mapierdi siya. Ang iya ginasaligan nga mga armas kuhaon sa iya, kag pati ang tanan niya nga mga pagkabutang pamartidahon pa.”
Pagkatapos nagsiling si Jesus, Pagkatapos nagsiling si Jesus, “Ang wala nagaapin sa akon, kontra sa akon. Kag ang wala nagabulig sa akon sa pagtipon sang mga tawo sa Dios sang mga tawo sa Dios nagapalapta lang.
“Kon ang mahigko nga espiritu magguwa sa tawo nga iya ginsudlan, nagalibot siya sa mga lugar nga wala sing tubig kay nagapangita siya sang lugar nga iya mapahuwayan. Kon indi siya makakita sang palahuwayan, magahunahuna siya nga magbalik na lang sa iya ginhalinan.
Kag kon sa iya pagbalik makita niya nga ang iya ginhalinan matinlo na kag nahimos ang tanan,
malakat siya dayon kag manghagad sang pito pa gid ka espiritu nga mas malain pa sang sa iya. Magasulod sila sa sadto nga tawo kag didto mag-estar. Kag ang kahimtangan sang tawo mangin grabe pa gid sang sa una.”
Pagkatapos hambal ni Jesus sadto, may babayi didto sa kadam-an nga nagsinggit sa iya, “Bulahan ang babayi nga nagbusong kag nagpatiti sa imo!”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Pero mas bulahan ang mga tawo nga nagapamati kag nagatuman sang pulong sang Dios.”
Samtang nagadamo pa gid ang mga tawo nga nagatilipon kay Jesus, nagsiling siya, “ Kamo nga mga tawo sa Kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon tama kalaot. Nagapangayo kamo sang milagro bilang pamatuod nga ginpadala ako sang Dios nga ginpadala ako sang Dios . Pero wala sing milagro nga ipakita sa inyo luwas sa milagro nga pareho sang natabo kay Jonas.
Subong nga si Jonas nangin tanda sa mga taga-Nineve, ang matabo sa akon nga akon nga Anak sang Tawo mangin tanda man sa inyo.
Sa adlaw sang paghukom, mabanhaw man man ang mga taga-Nineve upod sa inyo nga mga tawo sa inyo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon kag basulon man nila kamo. Kay pagkabati sang mga taga-Nineve sadto sang wali ni Jonas, naghinulsol sila. Karon may ari diri nga labaw pa kay Jonas, pero wala kamo naghinulsol sang nagwali siya sa inyo pero wala kamo naghinulsol sang nagwali siya sa inyo .”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Wala sing tawo nga nagasindi sang suga kag taguon lang niya ini dayon ukon takluban sang sulukban, kundi ginabutang ini sa tulungtungan para masanagan ang mga nagasulod sa balay sa balay .
Ang aton mata amo ang suga sang aton lawas. Kon masanag ang imo panulok, masanagan ang imo bilog nga lawas. Pero kon madulom ang imo panulok, madulman ang imo bilog nga lawas.
Gani siguruhon mo nga nasanagan ka gid, kay basi nga ang imo ginasiling nga masanag madulom.
Kag kon ang imo bilog nga lawas nasanagan kag wala gid sing parte nga nadulman, masanagan ang tanan, pareho sang pagsiga sang suga sa imo.”
Pagkatapos hambal ni Jesus, may isa ka Pariseo nga nag-agda sa iya nga magkaon sa iya balay. Gani nag-upod si Jesus kag nagkaon.
Natingala ang Pariseo sang makita niya nga wala nagpanghugas si Jesus antes magkaon suno sa ila ritual suno sa ila ritual .
Gani naghambal ang Ginoo sa iya, “Kamo nga mga Pariseo, ginahugasan ninyo ang sa guwa lang lang nga parte sang tasa kag pinggan bilang ritual bilang ritual , pero ang sa sulod ninyo puno sang kadalok kag kalautan.
Mga buang-buang! Indi bala nga ang Dios nga naghimo sang guwa nga parte amo man ang naghimo sang sulod nga parte?
Gani para mangin matinlo kamo, kaluoyi ninyo ang mga imol kag indi ninyo pagdaluki kon ano man ang ila mga kinahanglanon.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga Pariseo! Ginahatag ninyo ang inyo ikanapulo bisan sang inyo mga panakot, pero ginabaliwala ninyo ang paghimo sang matarong sa inyo isigkatawo kag ang paghigugma sa Dios. Maghatag kamo sang inyo ikanapulo pero indi ninyo pag-ibaliwala ang paghimo sang sinang mas importante nga mga butang.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga Pariseo! Kay kon ara kamo sa mga simbahan, gusto gid ninyo magpungko sa mga pulungkuan nga para sa mga dungganon. Kag sa mga lugar nga madamo sang tawo, gusto gid ninyo nga magtamyaw sila sa inyo.
Kaluluoy kamo! Pareho kamo sa lulubngan nga wala sing tanda kag ginatapakan lang sang mga tawo nga wala kahibalo nga lulubngan gali ato.”
Nagsiling ang isa ka manunudlo sang Kasuguan, “Manunudlo, sa imo panghambal ginainsultuhan mo man kami.”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kaluluoy man kamo! Kay ginapabug-atan ninyo ang mga tawo sa madamo nga pagsulundan nga ginadugang ninyo sa Kasuguan, pero kamo mismo wala gani nagatuman.
Kaluluoy kamo! Nagapakay-o kamo sang mga lulubngan sang mga propeta nga ginpamatay sang inyo mga katigulangan.
Gani nagapamatuod kamo kag nagakomporme man sang ila mga ginhimo. Kay sila ang nagpamatay sang mga propeta kag kamo ang nagapakay-o sang ila mga lulubngan.
Amo gani nga suno sa kaalam sang Dios nagsiling siya, ‘Magapadala ako sa ila sang mga propeta kag mga apostoles; ang iban sang akon ipadala pagapatyon nila, kag ang iban hingabuton nila.’
Gani kamo nga mga tawo sa kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon pagasilutan man sang Dios tungod sang ila pagpamatay sang mga propeta sang una, halin pa sang pagtuga sang kalibutan—
halin kay Abel hasta kay Zacarias nga ginpatay sa tunga sang halaran kag sang templo. Huo, nagasiling ako sa inyo, kamo nga mga tawo sa kamo nga mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon silutan gid tungod sang ila mga ginhimo.
“Kaluluoy kamo nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan! Kay ginatago ninyo ang yabi sa pag-intiendi sang kamatuoran. Indi lang nga wala kamo nagasunod sa kamatuoran, kundi ginabalabagan pa ninyo ang iban nga gusto magsunod.”
Pagkatapos nga naghalin si Jesus sa balay, ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag ang mga Pariseo nagsugod na nga magdumot gid sa iya. Sige ang ila pamangkot sa iya parte sa nagkalain-lain nga butang
sa pagdakop-dakop sa iya mga pulong.
Sang nagdugok ang linibo-libo nga mga tawo kay Jesus kay Jesus kag nagaginutok sila, nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Mag-andam kamo, kay basi malatnan kamo sang batasan
Pero wala sing tinago nga indi mahibaluan sa ulihi.
Gani, bisan ano ang inyo ginahambal sa madulom, mabatian sa masanag, kag ang inyo ginahutik sa sirado nga kuwarto, mahibaluan sang tanan.
“Mga abyan, indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga tawo nga makapatay lang sang inyo lawas, kag pagkatapos wala na sila sing mahimo pa sa inyo.
Sugiran ko kamo kon sin-o ang inyo kahadlukan: kahadlukan ninyo ang Dios, kay pagkatapos nga mapatay niya ang lawas sang tawo may gahom pa gid siya sa paghaboy sang iya kalag sa impyerno. Amo gani nga ginapaandaman ko kamo nga ang Dios dapat ninyo kahadlukan.
Indi bala nga barato lang ang pispis nga pispis nga maya? Pero wala sing isa sa ila nga ginakalimtan sang Dios.
Gani labi pa gid kamo, kay bisan ang inyo buhok sa ulo naisip niya tanan. Gani indi kamo magkahadlok, kay mas mahal pa kamo sang sa madamo nga maya.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, “Ang bisan sin-o nga nagakilala sa akon sa atubangan sang mga tawo nga ako iya Ginoo, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magakilala man sa iya sa atubangan sang mga anghel sang Dios.
Pero ang wala nagakilala sa akon sa atubangan sang mga tawo, indi ko man pagkilalahon sa atubangan sang mga anghel sang Dios.
Ang bisan sin-o nga maghambal sing malain kontra sa akon nga akon nga Anak sang Tawo mapatawad; pero ang magpakalain sa Espiritu Santo indi gid mapatawad.
“Kon tungod sa inyo pagtuo pagadal-on kamo sa simbahan sang mga Judio ukon sa mga manugdumala sang banwa para imbistigaron, indi kamo magpalibog kon ano ang inyo isabat.
Kay sa sina nga tion tudluan kamo sang Espiritu Santo kon ano ang inyo dapat ihambal.”
May tawo didto nga nagsiling, “Manunudlo, silinga ang akon utod nga partihan niya ako sang amon palanublion.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ano ako, huwis ukon manugpartida sang inyo pagkabutang?”
Dayon naghambal si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Mag-andam kamo sa tanan nga klase sang pagkamainangkunon, kay ang matuod nga pagkabuhi wala nagadepende sa madamo nga manggad.”
Kag ginsugiran niya sila sang isa ka paanggid, “May isa ka tawo nga manggaranon nga may duta nga madamo gid ang patubas.
Gani nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, ‘Ano ang akon himuon? Wala na ako butangan sang akon patubas!
Maayo pa siguro nga ipaguba ko ang akon mga bodega kag ipatindog ang mas dako pa gid, kag dira ko ibutang ang akon mga patubas kag mga pagkabutang.
Kag tungod kay madamo na ang akon natipon para sa palaabuton nga mga tinuig, mapahuway-huway lang ako anay, magkaon, mag-inom, kag magpangalipay!’
Pero nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, ‘Buang-buang! Karon nga gab-i bawion ko sa imo ang imo kabuhi. Ti sin-o ang magapulos sang imo gintipon nga manggad?’
Amo man ina ang matabo sa tawo nga nagatipon sang manggad para lang sa iya kaugalingon pero pobre sa atubangan sang Dios.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Gani nagasiling ako sa inyo nga indi kamo magpalibog sa inyo pagpangabuhi, kon ano ang inyo kaunon kag kon ano ang inyo bayuon.
Kay kon ginhatagan kamo sang Dios sang kabuhi kag lawas, indi mahimo nga indi niya kamo paghatagan sang pagkaon kag bayo.
Tan-awa ninyo ang mga uwak: wala sila nagatanom, wala nagaani, kag wala sila sang bodega nga ginatipunan sang ila pagkaon, pero ginapakaon sila sang Dios. Indi bala mas labaw pa kamo sang sa mga pispis?
Gani, tungod nga wala man kamo sang may mahimo sa pagpalawig sang inyo kabuhi, ngaa magpalibog pa gid kamo sang iban nga mga butang?
Talupangda ninyo kon paano nagatubo ang mga bulak; wala sila nagapangabudlay ukon nagahimo sang ila bayo. Sa pagkamatuod, bisan ang bantog kag manggaranon nga hari nga si Solomon, ang iya mga bayo indi makatupong sa katahom sang bisan isa lang sa sini nga mga bulak.
Indi kamo magpalibog kon ano ang inyo kaunon kag imnon.
Gani unaha ninyo ang pagpasakop sa paghari sang Dios kag ihatag gid niya ang inyo mga kinahanglanon.
“Kamo nga nagasunod sa akon pila lang gid,
Ibaligya ninyo ang inyo pagkabutang, kag ihatag ang kuwarta sa mga imol para makatipon kamo sang manggad didto sa langit. Ini indi gid mabuhinan ukon madunot, tungod nga wala didto sing makawat nga makapalapit kag wala man sing mga sapat-sapat nga makaut-ot.
Bulahan ato nga mga ulipon nga maabtan sang ila amo nga nagabugtaw kag nagabantay sa iya pag-abot. Ang matuod, magapreparar ang ila amo sa pagserbisyo sa ila. Papungkuon niya sila sa iya lamisa kag siya mismo ang magaserbi sa ila.
Bulahan gid sila kon maabtan sila nga nakapreparar sa iya pag-abot bisan sa tungang gab-i ukon kaagahon.
Tandai ninyo ini: kon nahibaluan sang tagbalay kon ano nga oras maabot ang makawat, bantayan gid niya para indi makasulod ang makawat sa iya balay.
Gani magbantay gid kamo, kay sa oras nga wala ninyo ginapaabot, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magaabot.”
Nagpamangkot si Pedro, “Ginoo, para bala kay sin-o ang paanggid nga ina, sa amon bala ukon sa tanan?”
Ginsabat siya ni Jesus paagi sa isa ka paanggid paagi sa isa ka paanggid , “Indi bala nga kon sin-o ang masaligan kag maalam nga ulipon amo ang ginapili sang amo nga magdumala sa iya kaupod nga mga ulipon? Siya ang nagahatag sa ila sang ila pagkaon sa husto nga oras.
Pero kaluluoy ang ulipon nga sa paglakat sang iya amo magahunahuna siya nga madugay pa siya magbalik, gani magasugod siya sa pagpamintas sa iya kaupod nga mga ulipon, lalaki kag babayi man, kag magapagusto siya sang kaon, inom kag pahubog.
Magaabot ang iya amo sa oras nga wala gid niya ginahunahuna, kag grabe ang silot nga iya agumon.
“Ang ulipon nga nakahibalo kon ano ang luyag sang iya amo pero wala nagatuman, madamo nga hanot ang iya pagaagumon.
Kag ang ulipon nga wala nakahibalo kon ano ang luyag sang iya amo kag nakahimo sang mga butang nga indi maayo hanuton man, pero diutay lang. Kay ang bisan sin-o nga ginhatagan sang madamo, madamo man ang ginapaabot sa iya. Mas madamo ang ginapaabot sa tawo nga gintugyanan sang madamo.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, “Nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan sa pagdala sang silot nga daw silot nga daw kalayo, kag luyag ko nga magdabdab na ini.
Pero sa wala pa ini matabo madamo anay nga mga pag-antos ang akon maagyan. Kag indi gid ako mapahamtang samtang wala pa ini matapos.
“Nagahunahuna bala kamo nga nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan para mangin maayo ang relasyon sang isa kag isa? Ang matuod, nagkadto ako diri para magbinahin-bahin ang mga tawo.
Kay halin subong, tungod sa akon, tungod sa akon, may lima ka tawo sa pamilya nga magabinahin-bahin. Ang tatlo kontra sa duha kag ang duha kontra sa tatlo.
Ang amay kag ang iya anak nga lalaki magakontrahanay. Ang iloy kag ang iya anak nga babayi magakontrahanay, kag ang ugangan nga babayi kag ang iya umagad nga babayi magakontrahanay.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Kon makita ninyo ang gal-om sa west nagasiling kamo nga magaulan, kag amo gani ang matabo.
Kag kon maghuyop na ang habagat nagasiling kamo nga magainit, kag amo man ang matabo.
Mga hipokrito! Makahibalo kamo magpakot kon ano ang matabo paagi sa inyo pagtan-aw sa duta kag sa langit, pero ngaa indi kamo makapakot sang mga nagakalatabo subong?
“Ngaa wala gid ninyo ginabinagbinag kon ano ang husto?
Kon may mag-akusar sa imo, tinguhai gid sa pagpakighusay samtang nagapakadto pa lang kamo sa korte. Kay basi piliton gid niya ikaw nga dal-on sa huwis kag itugyan ka dayon sang huwis sa opisyal para prisohon.
Kag indi ka gid makaguwa kon indi mo anay mabayaran ang tanan.”
May mga tawo didto nga nagbalita kay Jesus parte sa mga taga-Galilea nga ginpapatay ni Pilato sang nagahalad sila sang mga sapat sa templo sa templo .
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Siguro nagahunahuna kamo nga natabo ato sa ila tungod nga mas makasasala sila sang sa iban nga mga taga-Galilea.
Pero indi! Pero sugiran ko kamo, kon indi kamo maghinulsol kag magtalikod sa inyo mga sala, kamo tanan mapatay man.
Ti, ano karon atong 18 ka tawo nga natumbahan sang tore sa Siloam kag nagkalamatay. Siguro nagahunahuna man kamo nga sila ang pinakamalaot sa tanan nga taga-Jerusalem.
Pero indi! Pero sugiran ko kamo, kon indi kamo maghinulsol kag magtalikod sa inyo mga sala, kamo tanan mapatay man.”
Dayon ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sang isa ka paanggid, “May isa ka tawo nga may gintanom nga higera sa iya talamnan sang ubas. Ginkadtuan niya ini nga tanom kag gintan-aw kon bala may bunga, pero wala gid siya sing may nakita.
Gani ginhambalan niya ang nagaatipan sang iya talamnan, ‘Tatlo na ka tuig ang akon pagbalik-balik diri nga nagatan-aw kon may bunga na ang higera, pero wala gid makapamunga. Maayo pa tapson mo na lang ina. Ginakuha lang niya ang abuno sang duta.’
Pero nagsiling ang manug-atipan, ‘Sir, pabay-an ta lang anay sa sini nga tuig kay kutkutan ko ang iya palibot kag abunuhan.
Basi pa lang nga magpamunga sa sunod nga tuig. Pero kon indi pa gid siya magpamunga amo na ina ang pagtapas ta.’ ”
Sang isa ka Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagkadto si Jesus sa simbahan sang mga Judio kag nagpanudlo.
May babayi didto nga nangin buktot tungod nga ginapamasakit siya sang malain nga malain nga espiritu. Sa sulod sang 18 ka tuig indi gid siya makatadlong sang iya lawas.
Sang makita siya ni Jesus, gintawag niya siya kag ginsilingan, “Tyay, maayo ka na sa imo masakit.”
Dayon gintungtong niya ang iya mga kamot sa babayi, kag sa gilayon nagtadlong ang iya likod kag nagdayaw siya sa Dios.
Pero nangakig gid ang manugdumala sang simbahan, tungod kay nagpang-ayo si Jesus sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, “Sa isa ka semana may anom ka adlaw para mag-obra. Sa sina nga mga adlaw magkadto kamo diri sa pagpabulong, pero indi sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo sa iya, “Mga hipokrito kamo! Indi bala nga kon may baka kamo ukon kabayo, ginahubaran ninyo kag ginaguyod sa mga palaimnan bisan sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway?
Kon ginahimo ninyo ina sa sapat, ngaa indi ko paghimuon ang maayo sa sini nga babayi nga isa man sang mga kaliwat ni Abraham? Gin-gapos siya ni Satanas sa sulod sang 18 ka tuig, gani dapat nga hilwayon siya sa gahom ni Satanas bisan sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.”
Sa sabat nga ini ni Jesus nahuy-an ang mga nagakontra sa iya. Sa pihak nga bahin, nalipay gid ang mga tawo tungod sa makatilingala nga mga butang nga iya ginpanghimo.
Nagpadayon pa gid si Jesus sa paghambal, “Sa ano ko bala ipaanggid ang paghari sang Dios?
Ang paghari sang Dios pareho sa binhi sang mustasa
Dayon nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Sa ano ko pa gid bala ipaanggid ang paghari sang Dios?
Pareho ini sa inugpahabok nga ginmiksla sang babayi sa isa ka labador nga harina nga iya masahon, kag naghabok dayon ang bilog nga linamas.”
Sang nagapakadto si Jesus sa Jerusalem, nagapanudlo siya sa mga baryo kag mga banwa nga iya ginaagyan.
Karon, may nagpamangkot sa iya, “Ginoo, diutay lang bala ang maluwas?” Nagsabat si Jesus,
“Magtinguha gid kamo sa pagsulod sa makitid nga puwertahan. Kay ang matuod, madamo ang gusto nga magsulod, pero indi sila makasulod.
Kon nakapanirado na ang tagbalay magatindog gid lang kamo sa guwa kag magapanuktok nga nagasiling, ‘Ginoo, pasudla kami.’ Pero sabton niya kamo, ‘Wala ako makakilala sa inyo.’
Dayon magasiling kamo, ‘Indi bala nga nag-upod kita sa pagkaon, kag nagtudlo ka sa mga kalye sang amon banwa?’
Pero magasabat siya sa inyo, ‘Wala gid ako makakilala sa inyo. Palayo kamo sa akon, tanan kamo nga nagahimo sang malain!’
Magahibi kamo kag magabagrot ang inyo mga ngipon
Kag makita ninyo ang mga indi Judio nga naghalin sa tanan nga parte sang kalibutan
May mga tawo nga kubos subong, pero sa ulihi mangin dungganon. Kag may mga dungganon subong, pero sa ulihi mangin kubos.”
Sang sadto nga tion, may mga Pariseo nga nagpalapit kay Jesus kag nagsiling, “Kinahanglan maghalin ka na diri kay gusto ni Herodes nga patyon ka.”
Pero ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Lakat, sugiri ninyo inang madaya
Basta kinahanglan gid nga padayunon ko ang akon paglakat subong, sa buwas, kag sa sunod nga adlaw, kay indi nagakabagay nga ang propeta patyon sa iban nga lugar luwas sa Jerusalem.
“Kamo nga mga taga-Jerusalem, ngaa ginabato ninyo kag ginapamatay ang mga propeta nga ginpadala sang Dios sang Dios sa inyo? Permi ko ginahandom nga tipunon kamo kag atipanon kag atipanon pareho sang munga nga nagatipon sang iya mga piso sa idalom sang iya mga pakpak, pero indi kamo gusto sini.
Karon, bahala kamo sa inyo kaugalingon. Indi na gid ninyo ako makita hasta sa pag-abot sang adlaw nga magasiling kamo, ‘Ginapakamaayo sang Ginoo ang iya pinadala.
Isa sadto ka Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, gin-imbitar si Jesus sang isa ka manugdumala sang mga Pariseo nga magkaon sa iya balay. Pag-abot ni Jesus didto, ginbantayan siya sang mga tawo nga nagakontra sa iya kon bala lapason niya ang Kasuguan kon bala lapason niya ang Kasuguan .
Karon, may tawo didto nga nagapalamanog ang bilog niya nga lawas.
Nagpamangkot si Jesus sa mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag sa mga Pariseo, “Ginatugot bala sang aton Kasuguan nga magpang-ayo sang mga masakiton sang mga masakiton sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway ukon wala?”
Pero naghipos lang sila. Dayon ginkaptan ni Jesus ang tawo kag gin-ayo. Pagkatapos ginpalakat niya.
Kag nagsiling siya sa mga tawo didto, “Abi may bata kamo ukon baka nga mahulog sa bubon sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Ano, pabay-an lang bala ninyo tungod kay Adlaw nga Inugpahuway? Siyempre, kuhaon ninyo!”
Pero wala gid sing may nakasabat sa iya pamangkot.
Napanilagan ni Jesus nga ang mga tawo nga ginpang-imbitar nagapili sang mga pulungkuan nga para sa dungganon nga mga tawo. Gani ginsugiran niya sila sini nga paanggid,
“Kon imbitaron ka sa punsyon sang kasal, indi mo pagpilion ang pulungkuan nga para sa dungganon nga mga tawo. Kay basi may gin-imbitar nga mas dungganon pa gid sang sa imo.
Kag ang nag-imbitar sa inyo nga duha magapalapit sa imo kag magsiling, ‘Abi halin ka anay dira, kay napreparar na ini nga pulungkuan sa sini nga tawo.’ Ti mahuy-an ka kag mapungko ka na lang sa pulungkuan nga para sa ordinaryo nga mga tawo.
Pero kon imbitaron ka, pilion mo ang pulungkuan nga para sa ordinaryo nga mga tawo, para sa pag-abot sang nag-imbitar sa imo palapitan ka niya kag papungkuon sa pulungkuan nga para sa dungganon nga mga tawo. Kundi mapadunggan ka pa sa atubangan sang tanan nga ginpang-imbitar.
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakataas sang iya kaugalingon paubuson, pero ang nagapaubos sang iya kaugalingon pataason.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa tawo nga nag-imbitar sa iya, “Kon mag-imbitar ka sang mga tawo nga magpanyaga ukon magpanyapon sa inyo, indi lang lang pag-imbitara ang imo mga amigo ukon ang imo mga utod ukon ang imo mga paryente ukon ang imo mga kasilingan nga manggaranon, kay basi kon imbitaron ka man nila kag mabaton mo na ang imo balos.
Kon magpapunsyon ka, imbitaron mo man man ang mga imol, ang mga pingkaw, ang mga piang, kag ang mga bulag.
Mangin bulahan ka tungod kay indi sila makabalos sa imo. Ang Dios amo ang magabalos sa imo sa pag-abot sang panahon sang pagkabanhaw sang mga matarong.”
Sang pagkabati sadto sang isa nga nakaupod kay Jesus sa pagkaon, nagsiling siya, “Bulahan atong mga tawo nga magakaon sa punsyon sa paghari sang Dios!”
Dayon gin-estoryahan siya ni Jesus, “May isa ka tawo nga nagpreparar sang dako nga punsyon, kag madamo ang iya ginpang-imbitar.
Pag-abot sang oras nga inugkaon na, ginsugo niya ang iya ulipon nga kadtuan ang mga ginpang-imbitar kag silingon, ‘Magkadto na kamo kay preparado na ang tanan!’
Pero kada isa sa ila nagbalibad nga indi sila makakadto. Nagsiling ang isa, ‘Bag-o lang ako nakabakal sang duta kag kinahanglan nga kadtuan ko kag tan-awon. Gani nagapangabay ako nga pasensyaha lang anay ako.’
Nagsiling pa gid ang isa, ‘Indi ako makakadto kay bag-o lang ako nakabakal sang napulo ka baka kag tilawan ko na kon bala maayo iarado. Gani pasensyaha lang anay ako.’
Nagsiling pa gid ang isa, ‘Bag-o gid lang ako ginkasal, gani indi ako makakadto.’
Pagkatapos nagbalik ang ulipon sa iya amo kag ginsugiran niya siya kon ngaa indi sila makakadto. Pagkabati sang amo nangakig siya. Gani nagsiling siya sa iya ulipon, ‘Kadto didto sa mga karsada kag mga kalye sang aton banwa kag dal-a diri ang mga imol, mga pingkaw, mga bulag, kag mga piang.’
Sang mahimo ato sang ulipon, nagsiling siya sa iya amo, ‘Sir, natuman ko na ang imo sugo, pero may bakante pa gid sa kalan-an.’
Gani nagsiling ang amo sa iya, ‘Kadto didto sa mga dalan sa guwa sang banwa kag piliton mo ang mga tawo nga imo makita nga magkadto diri para mapuno ang akon balay.
Sugiran ko kamo sang matuod, sa mga tawo nga akon gin-imbitar, wala gid sing may makatilaw sa ila sang akon ginpreparar nga pagkaon.’ ”
Sang nagapadayon si Jesus sa iya paglakat pakadto sa Jerusalem pakadto sa Jerusalem , madamo nga tawo ang nag-upod sa iya. Ginbalikid niya sila kag nagsiling,
“Kon may tawo nga luyag magsunod sa akon, pero mas palangga pa niya ang iya mga ginikanan, asawa, mga bata, mga utod, ukon ang iya kaugalingon sang sa akon, indi siya takos nga mangin akon sumulunod.
Ang tawo nga luyag magsunod sa akon pareho siya sang isa ka tawo nga nagaplano nga magpatindog sang tore. Una, bantaon niya anay kon pila ang magasto niya kag kon bala makaigo ang iya kuwarta nga gastuhon hasta mahuman ini.
Kay kon indi niya ini paghimuon basi pundasyon pa lang ang iya maobra kag maubos na ang iya kuwarta kag indi na niya mahuman. Gani kadlawan gid siya sang mga tawo nga makakita.
Magasiling sila, ‘Nagsagi lang patindog nga indi man lang makapahuman.’
Pareho man sa isa ka hari nga magapakig-away sa iban nga hari. Kinahanglan planohon niya anay kon bala ang iya mga soldado nga 10,000 makasarang magpakig-away sa hari nga may 20,000 ka soldado.
Kon banta niya nga indi siya makasarang, maayo pa nga samtang wala pa ang away magsugo siya sang pila sang iya mga tinawo sa pagpangabay sa iya kontra nga hari nga luyag na lang niya nga magpakighusay.
Gani binagbinagon man ninyo anay ang inyo pagsunod sa akon, kay kon indi ninyo pagbayaan ang tanan nga inyo ginapasulabi diri sa kalibutan, indi man kamo takos nga mangin akon sumulunod.
“Ang asin maayo, pero kon maglain ang iya sabor, wala na sing may mahimo para mapabalik pa ang iya sabor.
Indi na mapuslan bisan ilakot pa sa mga higko para iabuno, gani ginapilak na lang. Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian.”
Madamo nga manugsukot sang buhis kag iban pa nga ginakabig nga iban pa nga ginakabig nga mga makasasala ang nagpalapit kay Jesus sa pagpamati sang iya mga pagpanudlo.
Nagkumod ang mga Pariseo kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Siling nila, “Ini nga tawo nagabaton sang mga makasasala, kag nagaupod sa ila sa pagkaon!”
Gani ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sang mga mga paanggid. Siling niya,
“Halimbawa, may tawo nga may 100 ka karnero. Ang isa nadula. Ti ano ang iya himuon? Siyempre bayaan niya anay ang 99 sa palahalban kag pangitaon ang nadula hasta nga makita niya ini.
Kon makita na niya magakalipay siya kag pas-anon niya ini puli.
Pag-abot niya sa ila balay panawgon niya ang iya mga abyan kag mga kasilingan kag magsiling, ‘Dali kamo, magkalipay kita, kay nakita ko na ang akon karnero nga nadula.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Pareho man sina didto sa langit. Mas dako ang kalipay tungod sa isa ka makasasala nga nagahinulsol sang sa 99 nga mga matarong nga indi kinahanglan nga maghinulsol.
“Ukon halimbawa may isa ka babayi nga may napulo ka sinsilyo. Ano ayhan ang iya himuon kon madula ang isa? Siyempre sindihan niya ang suga kag silhigan sing maayo ang iya balay para pangitaon ang sinsilyo hasta nga makita niya ini.
Kon makita na niya ini, panawgon niya ang iya mga amiga kag mga kasilingan kag magsiling, ‘Magkalipay kita, kay nakita ko na ang akon sinsilyo nga nadula.’ ”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Pareho man sina ang kalipay sang mga anghel sang Dios sa langit kon ang isa ka makasasala maghinulsol.”
May isa pa gid ka paanggid nga ginsugid si Jesus. Nagsiling siya, “May isa ka tawo nga may duha ka anak nga lalaki.
Nagsiling ang manghod sa iya amay, ‘Tay, ihatag na sa akon ang akon parte nga palanublion.’ Gani ginpartida niya ang iya mga pagkabutang sa ila nga duha.
Pagligad sang pila ka adlaw, ginpamaligya sang manghod ang iya parte kag naglakat sa malayo nga lugar. Kag didto nagpagusto siya gasto sang iya kuwarta sa wala gid sing kapuslanan.
Sang naubos na niya gasto ang iya kuwarta, nag-abot ang puwerte nga gutom sa sadto nga lugar. Binudlayan gid siya.
Gani nag-obra na lang siya sa uma sang tawo nga taga-didto bilang manugbahog sang baboy.
Kon kaisa gusto niya nga magkaon sang kalan-on sang baboy para mauli-ulian ang iya kagutom, kay wala gid sing may nagahatag sang pagkaon sa iya.
“Sang ulihi nakatalupangod siya sa iya kahimtangan. Nadumduman niya nga didto sa ila pagusto sa pagkaon ang mga trabahador sang iya amay, pero siya ya daw mapatay na sa kagutom.
Gani nagsiling siya, ‘Maayo pa mapuli na lang ako didto kay tatay kag magsiling sa iya, “Tay nakasala ako sa Dios kag sa imo.
Karon indi na ako takos nga tawgon nga imo anak, kabiga na lang ako nga isa sang imo mga trabahador.” ’
“Sang malayo pa siya, nakita siya sang iya amay. Naluoy gid ang amay sa iya anak, gani nagdalagan siya pakadto sa iya anak kag ginhakos niya siya kag ginhalukan.
“Dayon naghambal ang iya anak sa iya, ‘Tay, nakasala ako sa Dios kag sa imo. Indi na ako takos nga tawgon nga imo anak. Kabiga na lang ako nga isa sang imo mga trabahador.’
“Gintawag sang amay ang iya mga ulipon kag nagsiling, ‘Dali, kuha kamo sang pinakamatahom nga bayo kag ipabayo sa iya. Suksuki man ninyo siya sang singsing kag sandalyas.
Dayon kuhaa ninyo ang ginpatambok nga bataon nga baka kag ihawa. Magapunsyon kita.
Tungod kay ining akon anak, nga ginakabig ko nga ginakabig ko nga patay na, karon nabuhi. Nadula siya pero karon nakita.’ Gani nagsugod sila sa pagsinadya.
“Natabo ini sang sa uma pa ang magulang niya nga bata. Sang nagpuli na siya, kag malapit na sa balay, nabatian niya ang sunata kag may nagasinaot.
Gani gintawag niya ang isa sang mga suluguon kag nagpamangkot, ‘May ano diri sa balay?’
Ginsugiran siya sang suluguon, ‘Ang imo utod nagpuli na kag ginpaihaw ni tatay mo ang ginpatambok nga bataon nga baka, kay nagbalik siya nga maayo ang iya lawas kag wala man maano.’
“Pagkabati niya sadto nangakig siya kag indi siya magsulod sa balay. Gani nagguwa ang iya amay kag gin-uloulohan siya.
Pero nagsabat siya sa iya amay, ‘Dumduma bala kon pila na ka tuig ang akon pag-alagad sa imo. Wala gid ako magsupak sa mga sugo mo. Pero bisan isa lang ka bataon nga kanding wala mo gid ako paghatagi para magkalipay ako upod sa akon mga amigo.
Karon, pag-abot sang imo anak nga nagwaldas sang imo pagkabutang upod sa mga babayi nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas, ginpaihawan mo pa siya sang ginpatambok nga bataon nga baka.’
“Pero nagsabat ang iya amay, ‘Ikaw permi diri sa akon, kag ang tanan nga akon imo man.
Dapat kita magkalipay, kay ang imo utod nga ginkabig ta nga ginkabig ta nga patay na, karon nabuhi. Nadula siya pero karon nakita na.’ ”
Nagsugid si Jesus sang isa ka paanggid sang isa ka paanggid sa iya mga sumulunod. Siling niya, Siling niya, “May isa ka manggaranon nga may suluguon nga gintugyanan niya sang iya mga pagkabutang. Karon may nagsugid sa manggaranon nga ang iya mga pagkabutang ginausikan lang sang iya tinugyanan nga suluguon.
Gani ginpatawag niya siya kag ginhambalan, ‘Ano ining nabatian ko nga ginausikan mo lang ang akon pagkabutang? Maayo pa magsumahay kita parte sa akon pagkabutang kay halin subong pahalinon ko na ikaw.’
Tungod nga ginapahalin na siya sang iya amo, nagsiling siya sa iya kaugalingon, ‘Ano bala ang akon himuon? Indi ako makasarang sang mabug-at nga obra pareho sang pagkutkot sang buho, kag nahuya man ako nga magpakilimos.
Ah, nahibaluan ko na kon ano ang akon himuon agod bisan pahalinon ako sang akon amo may makadtuan ako nga mga tawo nga magabaton sa akon sa ila mga balay.’
Ang iya ginhimo, isa-isa niya nga ginpatawag ang mga may utang sa iya amo. Nagpamangkot siya sa nahauna, ‘Pila ang imo utang sa akon amo?’
Nagsabat siya, ‘100 ka banga
Pagkatapos nagpamangkot siya sa ikaduha, ‘Pila ang imo utang sa akon amo?’ Nagsabat siya, ‘100 ka sako nga trigo.
Pagkahibalo sang Pagkahibalo sang amo sang iya ginhimo, sang iya ginhimo, gindayaw niya ang dayaon nga tinugyanan tungod nga maayo siya magpadihot. Kay ang mga tawo sa sini nga panahon mas maayo magpadihot sa ila isigkatawo sang sa mga tawo nga ginpasanagan na sang Dios sang Dios .
“Gani sugiran ko kamo, bisan matuod nga ang manggad ginagamit sa pagpangdaya, gamita ninyo ini sa pagpakig-amigo, para pag-abot sang adlaw nga wala na ini nga manggad, batunon nila
Ang tawo nga masaligan sa gagmay nga mga butang masaligan man sa dalagko nga mga butang. Kag ang tawo nga nagadaya sa gagmay nga mga butang, nagadaya man sa dalagko nga mga butang.
“Wala sing suluguon nga makaalagad sa duha ka agalon. Kay magasikway siya sa isa kag magahigugma sa isa; magadampig siya sa isa kag magapakalain sa isa. Indi man kamo makaalagad sing dungan sa Dios kag sa manggad.”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga Pariseo, ginyaguta nila si Jesus kay dalok gid sila sa kuwarta.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ginapakita-kita lang ninyo sa mga tawo nga maayo kamo. Pero nahibaluan sang Dios kon ano gid ang sa inyo tagipusuon. Kay ang mga butang nga ginapasulabi sang tawo ginakahigkuan sang Dios.
“Sa wala pa mag-abot si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso , ang Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises kag ang mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta amo ang ginasunod sang mga tawo. Halin sang pag-abot ni Juan ginawali na ang Maayong Balita parte sa paghari sang Dios, kag madamo gid ang nagapamilit nga magpasakop.
Pero wala ini nagakahulugan nga nadula na ang Kasuguan wala ini nagakahulugan nga nadula na ang Kasuguan . Mahapos pa nga madula ang langit kag ang duta sang sa mangin wala sing pulos bisan ang pinakagamay nga parte sang Kasuguan.
“Gani kon bulagan sang lalaki ang iya asawa kag magpangasawa sang iban, nagapanginbabayi siya. Kag ang magpangasawa sa babayi nga ginbulagan nagapanginbabayi man.
“Sang una may isa ka manggaranon nga ang iya bayo malahalon gid kag nagapagusto siya sa manamit nga mga pagkaon adlaw-adlaw.
May isa man ka tawo nga imol nga ang iya ngalan si Lazarus. Ang iya lawas puno sang katol. Ginadala siya didto sa puwertahan sang balay sang manggaranon.
Gusto niya nga makakaon kuntani bisan sang mga pagkaon na lang nga nagakalahulog sa lamisa sang manggaranon. Ginapalapitan siya sang mga ido kag ginadilapan ang iya mga katol.
Sang ulihi napatay si Lazarus kag gindala siya sang mga anghel didto sa tupad gid ni Abraham. Ang manggaranon napatay man kag ginlubong.
Kag sang nagaantos siya sing puwerte gid sa impyerno
Gani nagsinggit ang manggaranon kay Abraham, ‘Amay Abraham, kaluoyi man ako! Sugua si Lazarus nga itum-oy niya sa tubig bisan ang iya na lang tudlo kag patuluan ang akon dila para mabugnawan, kay puwerte gid ang akon pag-antos sa sini nga kalayo.’
Pero ginsabat siya ni Abraham, ‘Anak, sang nagakabuhi ka pa sa kalibutan maayo gid ang imo kahimtangan, kag si Lazarus ya nag-antos. Pero subong ginalipay siya diri kag ikaw nagaantos.
Luwas pa sina, ang imo ginapangayo indi gid mahimo, tungod may dako nga kadadalman nga nagaseparar sa aton, nga ang bisan sin-o diri sa amon nga gusto magsaylo dira indi gid makatabok, kag wala man sang may makatabok nga halin dira sa inyo pakadto diri sa amon.’
Dayon nagsiling ang manggaranon, ‘Amay Abraham, kon amo gali sina, nagapangabay ako sa imo nga kon mahimo ipadala mo si Lazarus sa balay sang akon amay,
kay may lima pa ako ka utod nga lalaki, kag paandaman niya sila para indi sila makakadto sa sini nga lugar nga puro lang pag-antos.’
Pero nagsabat si Abraham, ‘Ato man didto sa ila ang mga ginsulat ni Moises kag sang mga propeta. Dapat pamatian nila ina.’
Nagsabat ang manggaranon, ‘Pero amay Abraham, indi sila magpati. Pero kon may napatay nga magkadto didto sa ila, magahinulsol sila sa ila mga sala.’
Pero nagsiling si Abraham, ‘Kon indi gani sila magpati sa mga ginsulat ni Moises kag sang mga propeta, ti indi man sila magpati bisan pa may mabanhaw nga patay!’ ”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Indi mahimo nga indi mag-abot ang mga butang nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang tawo. Pero kaluluoy ang tawo nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang iya isigkatawo.
Mas maayo pa sa iya nga higtan ang iya liog sang galingan nga bato kag itagbong siya sa dagat sang sa mangin kabangdanan siya sang pagpakasala sang isa sining mga kubos.
“Kon makasala ang imo utod sa imo, sawaya siya. Kag kon maghinulsol siya, patawara siya.
Kon sa sulod sang isa ka adlaw makapito siya makasala sa imo, kag kada makasala siya nagapangayo siya sing patawad, patawara siya.”
Nagsiling ang mga apostoles sa iya, “Ginoo, dugangi ang amon pagtuo!”
Nagsabat ang Ginoo sa ila, “Kon may pagtuo kamo nga pareho sa binhi sang mustasa, sarang kamo makasiling sa sini nga kahoy, ‘Gabuta ang imo kaugalingon kag magsaylo sa dagat!’ Kag mapati ini sa inyo.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, “Halimbawa, may ulipon ka nga nagaarado ukon nagabantay sang imo mga sapat, kag bag-o lang siya makapuli halin sa iya obra. Bilang amo magasiling bala ikaw sa iya, ‘Dali kaon na’?
Siyempre indi, kundi magasiling ka, ‘Abi, himusi ako sang akon panyapon kag magserbi ka sa akon. Pagkatapos ikaw naman ang magkaon.’
Wala ginapasalamati ang ulipon tungod kay ginahimo lang niya ang iya katungdanan.
Gani kamo man, sa tapos nga inyo mahimo ang ginapahimo sa inyo, hunahunaon ninyo nga kamo mga ulipon lang nga nagatuman sang inyo katungdanan.”
Sang nagapanglakaton si Jesus pakadto sa Jerusalem, nag-agi siya sa border sang Samaria kag Galilea.
Sang nagapasulod siya sa isa ka baryo, ginsugata siya sang napulo ka tawo nga may delikado nga balatian sa panit.
kag nagasinggit, “Jesus, Manunudlo!
Sang nagalakat pa lang sila, naglimpyo na ang ila panit.
Pagkakita sang isa sa ila nga naayo na siya, nagbalik siya kay Jesus nga nagasinggit sang pagdayaw sa Dios.
Nagluhod siya kag nagpasalamat kay Jesus. Ato nga tawo Samariahanon.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Indi bala nga napulo ang nag-alayo? Diin na ang siyam?
Ngaa wala nagbalik ang iban para magpasalamat sa Dios luwas sa sining tawo nga indi Judio?”
Kag nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Tindog ka kag magpuli. Ang imo pagtuo nagluwas
May mga Pariseo nga nagpamangkot kay Jesus kon san-o magaabot ang paghari sang Dios. Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagsugod sang paghari sang Dios wala sing tanda nga makita.
Gani wala sing may makasiling, ‘Diri nagahari ang Dios!’ ukon, ‘Didto siya nagahari!’ kay ang paghari sang Dios ara mismo sa inyo.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Magaabot ang tion nga magahandom kamo nga kuntani makita ninyo ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo bisan isa lang ka adlaw, pero indi pa ina matabo.
May mga tawo nga magasiling sa inyo, ‘Didto siya!’ ukon ‘Ari siya!’ Indi kamo magpati sa ila ukon magpangita sa akon.
Kay ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magabalik pareho sang kilat nga nagakirab sa palibot.
Pero madamo anay nga mga pag-antos ang akon dapat pagaagyan. Pagasikwayon ako sang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon.
“Kon ano ang ginhimo sang mga tawo sang tiyempo ni Noe amo man ang himuon sang mga tawo sa tiyempo nga mag-abot na ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo.
Sang tiyempo ni Noe, Sang tiyempo ni Noe, ang mga tawo wala na sing iban pa nga ginapinsar kundi magpangalipay wala na sing iban pa nga ginapinsar kundi magpangalipay . Sige lang ang ila kaon, inom, kag inasawahay hasta sa adlaw nga nagsulod si Noe sa barko. Dayon nag-abot ang grabe gid nga baha kag nalumos sila tanan.
Ang himuon sang mga tawo mangin pareho man sang ginhimo sang mga tawo sang tiyempo ni Lot. Ang mga tawo sadto sige lang kaon, inom, pamakal, pamaligya, pananom, kag patindog sang ila mga balay.
Pero sang adlaw nga si Lot nakaguwa na sa Sodom, nag-ulan didto sang kalayo kag asupre.
Amo man ina ang matabo kon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo mag-abot na.
Sa sina nga adlaw, ang tawo nga matabuan nga ara sa guwa sang iya balay indi na magsulod pa sa pagkuha sang iya mga pagkabutang. Kag ang didto sa talamnan indi na magpuli pa sa iya balay.
Dumduma ninyo ang natabo sa asawa ni Lot.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagatinguha nga indi madula ang iya kabuhi madula pa gani. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga nagasikway sang iya kabuhi tungod sa iya pagsunod sa akon tungod sa iya pagsunod sa akon makabaton sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Ang matuod, sa sina nga gab-i, kon matabuan nga may duha ka tawo nga nagahulid nga nagakatulog, ang isa kuhaon kag ang isa ibilin.
Kon may duha ka babayi nga nagagaling, ang isa kuhaon kag ang isa ibilin.
Kag kon may duha ka tawo nga nagaobra sa uma, ang isa kuhaon kag ang isa ibilin.”
Dayon nagpamangkot ang iya mga sumulunod, “Ginoo, diin bala ini matabo?” Ginsabat niya sila sa paanggid, “Kon diin may patay nga lawas, didto man nagatilipon ang mga uwak.”
Ginsugiran pa gid ni Jesus ang iya mga sumulunod sang isa ka paanggid para tudluan sila sa pagpangamuyo permi kag indi madulaan sing paglaom.
Nagsiling siya, “May isa ka huwis sa isa ka siyudad nga wala nagakahadlok sa Dios kag baliwala lang sa iya ang iya isigkatawo.
Kag didto man sa sina nga siyudad may isa ka balo nga babayi nga permi nagabalik-balik sa huwis kag nagasiling, ‘Hatagi ako sang hustisya kontra sa akon kaaway.’
Dayon nagsiling si Ginoo ng Jesus ng Jesus sa ila, “Ti nakita ninyo ang ginhimo sang huwis nga indi gani matarong?
Ang Dios pa ayhan! Indi gid mahimo nga indi niya paghatagan hustisya ang iya katawhan nga nagapanawag sa iya adlaw-gab-i. Sigurado gid nga indi niya sila pagpabay-an.
Ang matuod, buligan niya sila gilayon. Pero kon magbalik na ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo diri sa kalibutan, may makita ayhan ako nga mga tawo nga nagatuo?”
May mga tawo didto nga nagasalig nga sila gid lang ang matarong kag nagainsulto sila sa iban. Gani ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sining paanggid:
“May duha ka tawo nga nagkadto sa templo sa pagpangamuyo. Ang isa Pariseo kag ang isa manugsukot sang buhis.
Nagtindog ang Pariseo kag nagpangamuyo parte sa iya kaugalingon sing subong sini, ‘Dios ko, nagapasalamat ako sa imo nga indi ako pareho sang iban nga mga tawo, nga mga kawatan, dayaon, kag babahedor. Kag salamat nga indi man ako pareho sa sini nga manugsukot sang buhis.
Kaduha ako magpuasa kada semana, kag ginahatag ko ang ikanapulo sang tanan ko nga kinitaan.’
Ang manugsukot sang buhis nagtindog sa malayo kag indi gani siya magtangla sa langit, kundi ginapukpok niya ang iya dughan sa paghinulsol nga nagasiling, ‘Dios ko, kaluoyi ako nga makasasala!’
Sa pagkamatuod, ining tawo nagpuli sa iya balay nga ginpakamatarong sang Dios sang Dios sang sa isa. Kay ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakataas sang iya kaugalingon paubuson sang Dios sang Dios , pero ang nagapaubos sang iya kaugalingon pataason.”
May mga tawo nga nagdala sang ila magagmay nga mga bata kay Jesus para tungtungan niya sang iya kamot kag bendisyunan kag bendisyunan . Sang makita ini sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus , ginsaway nila ang mga tawo.
Pero gintawag ni Jesus ang mga bata nga magpalapit sa iya, kag nagsiling siya sa iya mga sumulunod sa iya mga sumulunod , “Pabay-i lang ninyo ang mga bata nga magpalapit sa akon. Indi ninyo sila pagpunggi, kay ang mga pareho sa ila nasakop sa paghari sang Dios.
May isa ka manugdumala sang mga Judio nga nagpamangkot kay Jesus, “Maayo nga Manunudlo, ano bala ang akon himuon para maangkon ko ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan?”
Kon parte sa imo pamangkot, nahibaluan mo naman ang ginasiling sang Kasuguan: ‘Indi ka magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki, indi ka magpatay, indi ka magpangawat, indi ka magsaksi sing butig, tahuron mo ang imo amay kag iloy.’ ”
Nagsabat ang tawo, “Ina tanan ginatuman ko halin sang bata pa ako.”
Sang pagkabati ni Jesus sang iya sabat, nagsiling siya, “Isa pa ka butang ang kulang sa imo. Ibaligya ang imo mga pagkabutang, kag ang kuwarta ipanagtag sa mga imol. Kag makaangkon ka sang manggad sa langit. Dayon magbalik ka kag magsunod sa akon.”
Pero sang pagkabati niya sadto, nagkasubo siya tungod kay manggaranon gid siya.
Sang makita ni Jesus nga nagkasubo siya, nagsiling siya, “Mabudlay gid para sa mga manggaranon nga magpasakop sa paghari sang Dios.
Dayon nagpamangkot ang mga nakabati sang ginhambal ni Jesus, “Ti kon amo sina, sin-o na lang ang maluwas?”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Ang indi mahimo sang tawo mahimo sang Dios.”
Dayon nagsiling si Pedro, “Ti kami, ginbayaan namon ang amon mga pagkabutang kag nagsunod sa imo.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, wala gid sing tawo nga nagbiya sang iya balay, asawa, mga utod, ginikanan, ukon mga bata tungod sang iya pagpasakop sa paghari sang Dios,
nga indi makabaton sa sini nga panahon sang madamo pa gid sang sa iya ginbayaan, kag sa palaabuton makabaton man sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.”
Ginpain ni Jesus ang iya iya dose ka apostoles ka apostoles kag ginsilingan, “Pamati kamo! Nagapataklad kita sa Jerusalem, kag didto matuman ang mga ginsulat sang mga propeta parte sa akon nga akon nga Anak sang Tawo.
Kay itugyan ako sa mga tawo nga indi Judio. Yagutaon nila ako, pakahuy-an kag duplaan.
Hanuton man nila ako kag patyon, pero sa ikatlo nga adlaw mabanhaw ako.”
Pero wala gid makaintiendi ang mga apostoles kon ano ang buot silingon ni Jesus, kay ginlipod sa ila ang kahulugan sang iya ginhambal.
Sang malapit na sila ni Jesus sa Jerico, may isa ka bulag nga nagapungko sa higad sang dalan nga nagapakilimos.
Pagkabati niya nga nagaalagi ang madamo nga tawo, nagpamangkot siya kon ano ato.
Ginsugiran nila siya nga nagaagi si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret.
Pagkahibalo niya sadto nagsinggit siya, “Jesus, kaliwat ni David,
Ginsaway siya sang mga tawo nga maghipos. Pero gintuduhan pa gid gani niya singgit, “Kaliwat ni David, kaluoyi ako!”
Dayon nagpundo si Jesus kag nagsugo nga dal-on ang bulag sa iya. Pag-abot sang bulag ginpamangkot siya ni Jesus,
“Ano bala ang imo gusto nga himuon ko sa imo?” Nagsabat ang bulag, “Ginoo,
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Makakita ka na. Ang imo pagtuo nag-ayo
Kag sa gilayon nakakita siya. Dayon nagsunod siya kay Jesus nga nagadayaw sa Dios. Pagkakita sang mga tawo sini, nagdayaw sila sa Dios.
Nagsulod si Jesus sa Jerico kay didto siya maagi pakadto sa Jerusalem pakadto sa Jerusalem .
May isa ka tawo didto nga manggaranon nga ang iya ngalan si Zakeus. Siya amo ang pangulo sang mga manugsukot sang buhis.
Gusto gid niya nga makita kon sin-o gid si Jesus. Pero putot si Zakeus kag tungod sa kadamuon sang mga tawo indi siya makakita kay Jesus.
Gani nagdalagan siya sa unhan kag nagsaka sa kahoy nga sikomoro para makita niya si Jesus, kay didto gid siya dampi maagi.
Pag-abot ni Jesus didto nagtangla siya kag nagsiling, “Zakeus, dali-dali ka nga magpanaog, kay subong nga adlaw kinahanglan didto ako madayon sa imo balay.”
Gani dali-dali nga nagpanaog si Zakeus, kag ginbaton niya si Jesus sing malipayon gid.
Sang makita sang mga tawo nga didto nagadayon si Jesus sa balay ni Zakeus, nagkumod sila nga nagasiling, “Ngaa dira gid siya nagadayon sa balay sinang tawo nga makasasala?”
Didto sa iya balay Didto sa iya balay nagtindog si Zakeus kag nagsiling, “Ginoo, ipanagtag ko sa mga imol ang katunga sang akon pagkabutang. Kag kon may gindayaan ako, ibalik ko sa iya ang apat ka pilo.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Karon ginluwas ini nga pamilya, tungod nga kaliwat man siya ni Abraham.
Kay ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo nagkadto diri sa kalibutan sa pagpangita kag sa pagluwas sang mga nagtalang.”
Samtang nagapamati pa ang mga tawo, ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sang paanggid tungod kay malapit na sila sa Jerusalem kag ang hunahuna sang mga tawo masugod na gid ang paghari sang Dios.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “May isa ka dungganon nga tawo nga naglakat sa malayo nga lugar sa pagbaton sang awtoridad bilang hari sa iya lugar sa iya lugar , kag magabalik man siya dayon.
Pero sa wala pa siya makahalin sa wala pa siya makahalin ginpatawag niya ang iya napulo ka ulipon kag ginpanghatagan ang kada isa sa ila sang palareho nga kantidad sang kuwarta, kag nagsiling siya sa ila, ‘Gamita ninyo sa negosyo ang akon ginhatag sa inyo samtang wala ako.’
“Karon, ang iya mga kasimanwa wala naluyag sa iya. Gani sang nakahalin na siya, nagpadala sila sing mga representante sa ginkadtuan niya sa pagsiling nga indi nila gusto nga maghari siya sa ila.
Pero ginhimo man siya gihapon nga hari. Pagbalik niya sa iya lugar, ginpatawag niya ang mga ulipon nga iya ginpanghatagan sang kuwarta nga inegosyo, para mahibaluan niya kon pila ang ila naganansya.
Ang premiro nga nag-abot nagsiling sa iya, ‘Sir, ang imo kuwarta nga ginhatag sa akon nakaganansya sang napulo ka pilo.’
Nagsiling ang hari, ‘Maayo gid! Maayo ka nga ulipon. Tungod nga masaligan ka sa diutay nga butang, padumalahon ko ikaw sa napulo ka siyudad.’
Ang ikaduha nga ulipon nag-abot man kag nagsiling, ‘Sir, ang imo kuwarta nga ginhatag sa akon nakaganansya sing lima ka pilo.’
Nagsabat ang hari sa iya, ‘Padumalahon ko ikaw sa lima ka siyudad.’
Kag nag-abot ang isa pa gid kag nagsiling, ‘Sir, ari ang imo kuwarta. Ginputos ko gid ini kag gintago,
kay nahadlok ako sa imo tungod masyado ka kaestrikto. Ginakuha mo ang ganansya sang pinangabudlayan sang iban, kag ginakuha mo ang patubas bisan indi ikaw ang nagtanom.’
Nagsiling ang hari sa iya, ‘Wala ka sing pulos nga ulipon! Ang imo ginhambal amo mismo ang akon gamiton sa pagsentensya sa imo. Nahibaluan mo gali nga estrikto ako kag ginakuha ko ang ganansya sang pinangabudlayan sang iban, kag ginakuha ko ang patubas bisan indi ako ang nagtanom.
Kag nagsiling ang hari sa mga tawo nga nagatindog didto, ‘Kuhaa ninyo sa iya ang kuwarta kag ihatag sa tawo nga nakaganansya sing napulo ka pilo.’
Pero nagsabat sila, ‘Sir, may napulo na siya ka pilo.’
Nagsabat ang hari, ‘Sugiran ko kamo, ang bisan sin-o nga may ara hatagan pa. Pero ang wala iya, bisan ang diutay nga ara sa iya kuhaon pa.
Kon parte sa sadto nga mga tawo nga nagakontra sa akon kag indi gusto nga maghari ako sa ila, dal-a ninyo sila diri sa akon kag pamatyon!’ ”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sadto, nagpadayon sila ni Jesus sa paglakat pakadto sa Jerusalem.
Sang malapit na sila sa mga baryo sang mga baryo sang Betfage kag Betania, sa bukid nga ginatawag Bukid sang mga Olibo, ginpauna ni Jesus ang duha sang iya mga sumulunod.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Mag-una kamo didto sa sunod nga baryo. Pagsulod ninyo, may makita kamo nga bataon nga donkey nga nahigot. Wala pa gid ini masakyi. Hubari ninyo kag dal-a diri.
Kon may magpamangkot sa inyo kon ngaa ginahubaran ninyo ang donkey, sabton ninyo nga kinahanglan sang Ginoo.”
Gani naglakat sila nga duha, kag ang ginsiling ni Jesus sa ila natuman gid.
Sang ginahubaran nila ang bataon nga donkey ginpamangkot sila sang tag-iya, “Ngaa ginahubaran ninyo ina?”
Nagsabat sila, “Kinahanglan ini sang Ginoo.”
Gindala nila dayon kay Jesus. Pag-abot didto, ginhapinan nila ang donkey sang ila mga panapton kag ginpasakay si Jesus.
Sang nagasakay siya pakadto sa Jerusalem pakadto sa Jerusalem , ginhumlad sang mga tawo ang ila mga panapton sa dalan bilang pagpadungog sa iya bilang pagpadungog sa iya .
Kag sang nagapadulhog na siya halin sa Bukid sang mga Olibo, nagakalipay ang iya mga sumulunod kag nagasinggit sa pagdayaw sa Dios tungod sang mga milagro nga ila nakita.
Dayawon ta ang Dios!”
Sa kadam-an may mga Pariseo nga nagsiling kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, pahipusa ang imo mga sumulunod.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, kon maghipos sila, ang mga bato amo ang magasinggit sang mga pagdayaw.”
Sang malapit na si Jesus sa siyudad sang Jerusalem, kag sang makita niya ini, naghibi siya para sa mga pumuluyo sini.
Nagsiling siya, “Kuntani nahibaluan ninyo subong nga adlaw kon ano ang makahatag sa inyo sang kalinong! Ugaling nalipdan ang inyo pag-intiendi.
Magaabot ang adlaw nga ang inyo siyudad libutan sang kuta sang inyo mga kaaway. Kibunon nila kamo sa tanan nga direksyon para indi gid kamo makapalagyo.
Pamatyon nila kamo, kag gub-on nila ang inyo siyudad nga wala na gid sang may mabilin nga mga bato nga nagasalampaw. Ini tanan matabo sa inyo Ini tanan matabo sa inyo tungod nga wala ninyo pagsapaka ang tion nga luwason na kuntani kamo sang Dios.”
Pag-abot nila sa Jerusalem, Pag-abot nila sa Jerusalem, nagkadto si Jesus sa templo kag gintabog niya ang mga nagabaligya didto.
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Nagasiling ang Dios ang Dios sa Kasulatan, ‘Ang akon balay lugar nga palangamuyuan.’
Halin sadto, nagatudlo siya sa templo adlaw-adlaw. Ang manugdumala nga mga pari, ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag ang mga opisyal sang banwa nagtinguha sa pagpatay sa iya.
Pero wala sila sing kahigayunan sa paghimo sini tungod kay nawili ang mga tawo sa pagpamati sang iya mga pagpanudlo.
Isa ka adlaw, samtang nagatudlo si Jesus kag nagawali sang Maayong Balita sa mga tawo didto sa templo, nagpalapit sa iya ang manugdumala nga mga pari, ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Nagpamangkot sila, “Sugiri kami kon ano ang imo awtoridad sa paghimo sang mga butang nga imo ginahimo diri sa templo. Sin-o ang naghatag sa imo sang sini nga awtoridad?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “May pamangkot man ako sa inyo. Sugiri ninyo ako,
kay sin-o bala naghalin ang awtoridad ni Juan sa pagbautiso, sa Dios
Pero kon magsiling kita nga halin sa tawo, batuhon kita sang mga tawo, kay nagapati sila nga si Juan propeta sang Dios sang Dios .”
Gani nagsabat sila kay Jesus, “Wala kami kahibalo kon kay sin-o naghalin ang awtoridad ni Juan ang awtoridad ni Juan .”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ti indi ko man kamo pagsugiran kon kay sin-o awtoridad ginahimo ko ini nga mga butang.”
Dayon nagsugid si Jesus sa mga tawo sini nga paanggid: “May isa ka tawo nga may duta nga ginpatamnan niya sang ubas. Pagkatapos ginpaagsahan niya ini kag naglakat sa malayo nga lugar kag nagtiner didto sing malawig.
Dayon nagsugo liwat ang tag-iya sang isa pa ka ulipon. Pero pag-abot sang ulipon sa mga agsador, ginbunal man siya kag ginpakahuy-an kag ginpabalik man nila nga wala gid sing dala.
Ginsugo pa gid sang tag-iya ang ikatlo nga ulipon, pero pag-abot niya didto ginsakit nila siya kag gintabog pauli.
Gani nagsiling ang tag-iya sang talamnan, ‘Ano na lang ang akon himuon? Ah, ipadala ko na lang ang akon pinalangga nga anak. Kay siguro tahuron nila siya.’
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Ti ano ayhan ang himuon sang tag-iya sa ila?
Sigurado gid nga kadtuan niya ang mga agsador kag pamatyon. Dayon paagsahan niya sa iban ang iya talamnan.” Pagkabati sadto sang mga tawo nagsiling sila, “Kabay pa nga indi lang pag-itugot sang Dios nga matabo ang pareho sina!”
amo ang nangin pundasyon nga bato’
Ang bisan sin-o nga mahulog sa sadto nga bato mabali, pero ang mahulugan sang amo nga bato madugmok gid.”
Sa sadto gid nga tion dakpon na siya kuntani sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag sang manugdumala nga mga pari, kay nahibaluan nila nga sila gid ang iya ginatumod sa iya nga paanggid. Pero nahadlok sila sa mga tawo.
Gani naghulat pa gid sila sing kahigayunan. Nagpadala sila sing mga espiya nga nagpakuno-kuno nga maayo ang ila tuyo, para kon may makita sila nga sala sa iya ginapanghambal iakusar nila siya sa gobernador.
Nagpamangkot ini nga mga espiya kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, nahibaluan namon nga husto ang imo ginapanghambal kag ginapanudlo. Kag wala ka sing may ginapasulabi bisan sin-o, kundi kon ano ang kamatuoran parte sa kabubut-on sang Dios sa mga tawo amo gid ang imo ginatudlo.
Ano bala sa imo, husto bala nga kita nga mga Judio nga mga Judio magbayad sang buhis sa Emperador sang Roma ukon indi?”
Pero nahibaluan ni Jesus ang ila madaya nga tinutuyo, gani nagsiling siya sa ila,
“Abi pakitai ninyo ako sang kuwarta.
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ti kundi ihatag ninyo sa Emperador ang iya sang Emperador kag sa Dios ang iya sang Dios.”
Gani sa atubangan sang tanan wala gid nila siya madakpi sa iya mga paghambal. Kag tungod nga natingala sila sa sabat ni Jesus, naghipos na lang sila.
May mga Saduceo nga nagpalapit kay Jesus. Ini nga mga tawo wala nagapati nga may pagkabanhaw.
Nagpamangkot sila, “Manunudlo, suno sa ginsulat ni Moises sa aton, kon mapatay ang lalaki nga wala sila sing bata sang iya asawa, dapat ang iya utod ang magpangasawa sa nabalo para makapabata siya para sa iya utod nga napatay.
Gani ang balo ginpangasawa sang sunod nga utod. Pero napatay man siya nga wala sila sang bata.
Amo man ang natabo sa ikatlo nga utod, hasta sa ikapito. Nagkalamatay sila tanan nga wala gid nakapabata sa sadto nga babayi.
Karon, kon mag-abot na ang pagkabanhaw, kay sin-o gid siya nga asawa? Kay sila nga pito nagpangasawa sa iya.”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Ang mga tawo sa sini nga panahon nagaasawahay.
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga suno sa Dios takos nga banhawon kag magkabuhi sa palaabuton nga panahon indi na magaasawahay.
Indi na sila mapatay tungod nga mangin pareho na sila sang mga anghel; mga anak sila sang Dios, kay ginbanhaw sila.
Kon parte sa pagbanhaw sang mga patay, bisan gani ang ginsiling ni Moises didto sa nagadabadaba nga kahoy-kahoy nagapamatuod sini. Indi bala nga gintawag niya ang Ginoo nga ‘Dios ni Abraham, Isaac, kag Jacob’
Ti buhi sila, kay Ti buhi sila, kay ang Dios indi Dios sang mga patay kundi Dios sang mga buhi, kay kon sa iya, buhi ang tanan.”
Nagsiling ang iban nga mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, “Manunudlo, husto ang imo sabat.”
Kag wala na gid sing may nangahas nga magpamangkot sa iya.
Karon, nagpamangkot si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Ngaa nagasiling sila nga ang Cristo kaliwat lang lang ni David?
Pungko diri sa akon tuo
Kon gintawag siya ni David nga iya iya Ginoo, paano bala nga siya kaliwat lang lang ni David?”
Sang nagapamati ang mga tawo kay Jesus, nagsiling siya sa iya mga sumulunod,
“Mag-andam kamo sa mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga gusto maglagaw-lagaw nga nagasuksok sang espesyal nga bayo.
Sang ulihi nagpanan-aw tan-aw si Jesus kag nakita niya ang mga manggaranon nga nagahulog sang ila kuwarta sa ginahulugan sini.
Kag nakita man niya ang isa ka imol nga balo nga babayi nga nagahulog sang duha lang ka sinsilyo.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, mas madamo ang ginhulog sang imol nga balo sang sa ila tanan.
May mga tawo didto nga nagaestorya parte sa matahom nga mga bato sang templo kag sa mga dekorasyon sini nga ginregalo sang mga tawo. Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila,
“Magaabot ang adlaw nga ang mga butang nga ini nga inyo nakita gub-on, kag wala gid sing may mabilin nga mga bato nga nagasalampaw.”
Nagpamangkot sila kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, san-o bala matabo ang mga butang nga imo ginsiling? Ano bala ang tanda nga madali na lang ini matabo?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Mag-andam kamo nga indi kamo pagpatalangon. Kay madamo ang magaabot kag magasiling nga sila amo ako, kag magasiling man sila nga nag-abot na ang tion. Pero indi kamo magpati ukon magpati ukon magsunod sa ila.
Kon makabati kamo nga may mga gira kag mga ginamo, indi kamo magkahadlok, kay ina kinahanglan nga matabo anay, pero wala nagakahulugan nga magaabot na ang katapusan.”
Kag nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa ila, “Magailinaway ang mga nasyon kag magailinaway ang mga ginharian.
May magaabot nga mabaskog nga mga linog, kag may mga gutom kag mga kahalitan nga magaabot sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar. Kag makita man ninyo ang mga makahaladlok kag makatilingala nga mga tanda halin sa langit.
“Pero sa wala pa ini matabo, pagadakpon kamo kag hingabuton sang mga tawo. Pagadal-on nila kamo sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio para sentensyahan para sentensyahan kag prisohon. Pagadal-on man nila kamo sa mga hari kag mga gobernador para imbistigaron para imbistigaron . Ini tanan himuon nila sa inyo tungod sang inyo pagsunod sa akon.
Pero ini mangin kahigayunan ninyo sa pagsugid sa ila sang Maayong Balita.
Gani itanom ninyo sa inyo hunahuna nga kon matabo ini, indi kamo magpalibog kon ano ang inyo isabat,
kay hatagan ko kamo sang kaalam sa pagsabat para indi makasabat kontra sa inyo ang inyo mga kaaway.
Itugyan kamo sa inyo mga kaaway sang inyo mismo mga ginikanan, mga utod, mga paryente, kag sang inyo mga amigo. Kag ang iban sa inyo patyon gid nila.
Dumtan kamo sang tanan tungod sang inyo pagsunod sa akon.
Pero indi gid kamo maano; indi gid kamo maano; wala sing bisan isa ka buhok ninyo nga madula.
Kay kon magpadayon kamo makaangkon kamo sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
“Kon makita ninyo nga ang Jerusalem ginalibutan na sang mga soldado, mahibaluan ninyo nga madali na lang ang iya kalaglagan.
Gani ang nagaestar sa Judea dapat magpalagyo sa kabukiran. Kag ang ara sa siyudad sang Jerusalem magpalagyo man. Ang mga tawo sa uma dapat indi magsulod sa Jerusalem.
Kay amo na ina ang mga inadlaw nga silutan sang Dios ang Jerusalem sa pagtuman sang ginasiling sang Kasulatan.
Makaluluoy ang mga nagabulusong kag ang mga nagapatiti sa sina nga mga inadlaw tungod nga mabudlayan sila sa pagpalagyo tungod nga mabudlayan sila sa pagpalagyo . Magaabot ang puwerte nga pag-antos sa sini nga lugar, kay dako ang kaakig sang Dios sa sini nga mga tawo.
Ang iban sa ila magakalamatay sa gira, kag ang iban pagabihagon sa iban nga mga nasyon. Kag ini nga siyudad sang Jerusalem pagagub-on kag pagadumalahan sang mga indi Judio samtang ginatugutan sang Dios.
“Matabo man nga may mga tanda nga makita sa adlaw, sa bulan, kag sa mga bituon. Diri sa kalibutan makulbaan ang mga nasyon tungod sang dalagko nga mga balod nga nagalinagumba.
Magakalalipong ang mga tawo sa kahadlok kon ano ang matabo sa sini nga kalibutan. Kay ang mga butang sa langit
Dayon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo makita sa panganod nga nagabalik diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan nga may gahom kag puwerte nga kadungganan.
Kon ini nga mga butang magasugod na nga magkalatabo, maglaom kamo kag maghulat
Dayon ginsugiran sila ni Jesus sini nga paanggid: “Tan-awa ninyo ang kahoy nga higera kag ang iban pa nga mga kahoy.
Indi bala nga kon makita ta nga nagapang-ugbos na nagasiling kita nga madali na lang ang tig-ilinit?
Sa amo man nga bagay, kon makita ninyo nga nagakalatabo na ini nga mga butang nga akon ginasugid sa inyo, mahibaluan ninyo nga malapit na
Sa pagkamatuod, magakalatuman ini tanan nga butang sa wala pa mapatay ang mga tawo mga tawo sa sini nga henerasyon.
“Gani bantayan ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon nga indi kamo mawili sa pagpangalipay, sa pagpahubog, kag sa pagpalibog sa inyo pagpangabuhi, kay basi kon hinali lang nga mag-abot ato nga adlaw nga wala kamo makabantay nga wala kamo makabantay ,
nga daw sa nasiod kamo. Kay gulpi lang gulpi lang ini nga magaabot sa tanan nga nagaestar diri sa kalibutan.
Gani magpreparar kamo permi kag magpangamuyo nga kon matabo na ini tanan, may kabakod kamo para indi kamo maano, kag makaatubang kamo sa akon nga akon nga Anak sang Tawo nga indi mahuya nga indi mahuya .”
Adlaw-adlaw nagakadto si Jesus sa templo kag nagapanudlo. Kon gab-i, nagatulog siya sa Bukid sang mga Olibo.
Aga pa gid nagakadto ang mga tawo sa templo sa pagpamati sa iya.
Malapit na lang ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok nga ginatawag man nga Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nagapangita sing paagi kon paano nila mapatay si Jesus nga indi magkinagamo nga indi magkinagamo , kay nahadlok sila sa mga tawo.
Nagsulod si Satanas kay Judas nga ginatawag Iscariote, nga isa sang dose ka apostoles ni Jesus ka apostoles ni Jesus .
Gani naglakat siya kag nagpakigkita sa manugdumala nga mga pari kag sa mga opisyal sang mga guwardya sa templo. Ginhambalan nila kon paano niya matugyan si Jesus sa ila.
Nalipay gid sila kag nagsugot nga bayaran siya.
Nagsugot man si Judas, kag halin sadto nagpangita siya sing kahigayunan kon paano niya matugyan si Jesus sa ila nga indi mahibaluan sang mga tawo.
Karon, nag-abot na ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok. Amo ini ang adlaw nga kinahanglan sang mga Judio sang mga Judio nga maghalad sing mga karnero nga ila pagakaunon nga ila pagakaunon para sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Gani ginsugo ni Jesus si Pedro kag si Juan. Siling niya, “Mag-una kamo kag magpreparar sang aton panyapon para sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.”
Nagpamangkot sila sa iya, “Diin bala ang gusto mo nga magpreparar kami sini?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Pag-abot ninyo sa siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem , may masugata sa inyo nga tawo nga nagadala sang banga nga may tubig. Sunod kamo sa iya sa balay nga iya pagasudlan,
kag magsiling kamo sa tagbalay, ‘Nagapamangkot ang Manunudlo kon diin ang kuwarto nga pagakaunan niya upod sang iya mga sumulunod sa pagselebrar sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.’
Ipakita niya sa inyo ang malapad nga kuwarto sa ibabaw nga kompleto sang kagamitan. Didto kamo maghimos sang aton panyapon.”
Naglakat ang duha nga iya ginsugo, kag nakita nila ang tanan suno sa ginsiling ni Jesus sa ila. Kag ginpreparar nila didto ang panyapon para sa piesta.
Pag-abot sang tion nga inugpanyapon na, nagpungko si Jesus kaupod sang iya mga apostoles para magkaon.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Dako gid ang akon handom nga sa wala pa ako mag-antos, mag-ulupod kita anay sa pagkaon sa pagselebrar sining Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Kay ang matuod, indi na ako magkaon liwat sini hasta matuman ang iya matuod nga kahulugan sa paghari sang Dios.”
Dayon nagkuha siya sang ilimnon, nagpasalamat sa Dios, kag nagsiling, “Palibuta ninyo ini kag bulus-bulusan inom.
Sugiran ko kamo, indi na ako mag-inom liwat sang ilimnon nga halin sa ubas hasta mag-abot ang paghari sang Dios.”
Nagkuha siya sang tinapay kag ginpasalamatan niya sa Dios. Ginpamihak-pihak niya dayon, kag ginpanagtag sa ila nga nagasiling, “Amo ini ang akon lawas nga ginahatag para sa inyo. Himua ninyo ini sa pagdumdom sa akon.”
Pagkatapos nila kaon sang tinapay, amo man ang iya ginhimo sa ilimnon: ginkuha niya ini, ginpasalamatan, kag ginkuha niya ini, ginpasalamatan, kag nagsiling, “Ini nga ilimnon amo ang bag-o nga kasugtanan nga patigayunon paagi sa akon dugo nga iula para sa inyo.
“Pero pamati kamo! Kaupod ta diri sa pagkaon ang tawo nga magatraidor sa akon.
Kay ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo pagapatyon suno sa plano sang Dios, pero kaluluoy ang tawo nga magatraidor sa akon.”
Pagkabati nila sadto nagpinamangkutanay sila kon sin-o ayhan sa ila ang magahimo sina.
Sang ulihi nagbinais-bais ang mga apostoles kon sin-o gid sa ila ang labaw sa tanan.
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ang mga hari sang mga nasyon may gahom sa ila mga sakop. Kag gusto sang sini nga mga manugdumala nga tawgon sila nga mga ‘manugbulig sa mga tawo.’
Pero sa inyo ya indi pareho sina. Kay kon sin-o sa inyo ang may mataas nga katungdanan, dapat magpaubos siya. Kag kon sin-o sa inyo ang nagadumala, dapat mangin pareho siya sa suluguon.
Sin-o sa duha ang mas labaw, ang ginaserbihan sang pagkaon ukon ang nagaserbi? Indi bala mas labaw ang ginaserbihan? Pero ako mismo ang nagaserbi sa inyo bisan ako ang inyo agalon.
“Kamo ang nagaunong sa akon sa mga pagtilaw nga akon ginaagyan.
Gani tungod nga ginhatagan ako sang akon Amay sang gahom sa paghari, hatagan ko man kamo sang gahom sa paghari.
Mangin kaupod ko kamo sa pagkaon kag pag-inom sa akon paghari. Magadumala kag magahukom kamo sa dose ka tribo sang Israel.”
Dayon naghambal si Jesus kay Pedro, Dayon naghambal si Jesus kay Pedro, “Simon, pamati bala! Naglisensya si Satanas nga tilawan gid niya kamo nga daw sa ginaayag nga trigo.
Pero ginpangamuyuan ko gid ikaw nga indi madula ang imo pagtuo. Kag kon makapanumbalik ka na, palig-unon mo ang pagtuo sang imo mga utod.”
Nagsabat si Pedro, “Ginoo, handa gid ako nga mag-unong sa imo bisan sa prisohan ukon sa kamatayon.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Pedro, sugiran ko ikaw sing matuod, sa wala pa makapamalo ang manok karon nga gab-i ipanginwala mo ako sing tatlo ka beses nga wala ka makakilala sa akon.”
Dayon ginpamangkot ni Jesus ang iya mga apostoles, “Sang ginsugo ko kamo anay nga maglakat sa pagwali, ginsilingan ko kamo nga indi magdala sing kahita, bag, ukon sandalyas. Ti ano, ginkulang bala kamo?” Nagsabat sila, “Wala gid.”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Pero karon, ang bisan sin-o nga may kahita ukon bag, dapat dal-on niya. Kag kon sin-o sa inyo ang wala sing espada, magbaligya siya sang iya bayo kag magbakal sing espada.
Sa pagkamatuod, dapat matuman ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan parte sa akon nga, ‘Ginkabig siya nga isa sang mga kriminal.’
Nagsiling ang mga apostoles, “Ginoo, ari may duha ka espada diri.” Nagsabat si Jesus, “Husto na ina.”
Sang paghalin didto ni Jesus, nagkadto siya sa Bukid sang mga Olibo pareho sang permi niya nga ginahimo. Nag-upod sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod.
Pag-abot nila didto nagsiling siya, “Magpangamuyo kamo nga indi kamo madaog sang temtasyon.”
Nagpalayo siya sa ila kag nagkadto sa ulo-unhan. Didto nagluhod siya kag nagpangamuyo.
Siling niya, “Amay, kon luyag mo, ilikaw ini nga pag-antos nga nagaabot sa akon. Pero indi ang akon luyag ang dapat matuman kundi ang imo.”
Nagpakita sa iya ang anghel halin sa langit kag nagpabakod sa iya.
Tungod sang dako nga kasakit nga iya ginabatyag, nagpangamuyo pa gid siya sing hugot sa iya tagipusuon, kag ang iya balhas daw sa dugo nga nagatulo sa duta.
Pagkatapos niya pangamuyo, nagtindog siya kag nagbalik sa iya mga sumulunod. Naabtan niya sila nga nagakatulog tungod kay ginkapoy sila sang puwerte gid nga pagpangasubo.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa nagakatulog kamo? Magbangon kamo kag magpangamuyo nga indi kamo madaog sang temtasyon.”
Sang nagahambal pa si Jesus, nag-abot ang madamo gid nga mga tawo. Si Judas mismo nga isa sa dose ka apostoles ka apostoles ang nagapanguna sa ila. Nagpalapit si Judas kay Jesus sa paghalok sa iya.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Judas, traiduran mo bala ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo paagi sa isa ka halok?”
Sang makita sang mga upod ni Jesus nga may himuon na sa iya ang mga tawo, nagsiling sila, “Ginoo, panglabuon bala namon sila sila ?”
Kag ginlabo sang isa sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ang ulipon sang pangulo nga pari, kag nautod ang iya tuo nga dulunggan.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Husto na ina!” Dayon ginbalik ni Jesus ang nautod nga dulunggan sang tawo kag gin-ayo niya.
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa manugdumala nga mga pari, sa mga opisyal sang mga guwardya sa templo, kag sa iban nga mga manugdumala sang mga Judio nga nagkadto didto sa pagdakop sa iya, “Ano, tulisan bala ako nga kinahanglan gid nga magdala pa kamo sang mga espada kag mga inuglampos sa pagdakop sa akon?
Adlaw-adlaw didto ako sa templo kag kamo didto man. Ti ngaa wala ninyo ako pagdakpa? Pero amo na ini ang inyo tion nga dakpon ako. Kag sa sini nga tion dakpon ako. Kag sa sini nga tion nagahari ang kadulom.”
Gindakop nila si Jesus kag gindala sa balay sang pangulo nga pari. Si Pedro nagsunod man, pero malayo-layo ang iya antad.
Didto sa tunga sang ugsaran nagadabok sang kalayo ang mga tawo kag nagapungko sa malapit para magpainit-init. Nagpalapit man si Pedro didto sa ila kag nagpungko.
May isa ka suluguon nga babayi nga nakakita kay Pedro nga nagapungko malapit sa kalayo. Ginhimutaran niya si Pedro, kag nagsiling dayon, “Ini nga tawo kaupod man sadtong tawo.”
Pero nagpanginwala si Pedro. Siling niya, “Day, wala gani ako makakilala sa iya.”
Dugay-dugay may nakakita naman sa iya nga lalaki nga nagsiling, “Ikaw isa man sang iya mga kaupod.” Pero nagsabat si Pedro, “Indi ako iya kaupod.”
Pagkaligad sang mga isa ka oras may nagsiling naman, “Matuod gid nga ining tawo kaupod niya kay siya taga-Galilea man.”
Pero nagsabat si Pedro, “Wala ako kahibalo sang imo ginapanghambal.” Sang nagahambal pa si Pedro, nagpamalo ang manok.
Nagbalikid ang Ginoo kag gintulok niya si Pedro. Dayon nadumduman ni Pedro ang ginsiling sang Ginoo sa iya, “Sa wala pa makapamalo ang manok karon, ipanginwala mo ako sing tatlo ka beses.”
Gani nagguwa si Pedro kag naghilibion gid.
Ginyaguta kag ginbunal si Jesus sang mga tawo nga nagaguwardya sa iya.
Ginbuta-butahan nila siya kag ginsumbag, kag ginsumbag, kag ginsilingan, “Pakta abi kon sin-o ang nagsumbag sa imo?”
Kag madamo pa gid ang ila ginpanghambal nga malain kontra sa iya.
Pagkaaga, nagtilipon ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio. Ang iban sa ila manugdumala nga mga pari, kag ang iban mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Gindala nila si Jesus sa ila Korte.
Nagsiling sila kay Jesus, “Sugiri kami kon ikaw bala ang Cristo.” Nagsabat siya, “Bisan sugiran ko kamo indi man gihapon kamo magpati.
Kag kon may pamangkot ako sa inyo indi man kamo magsabat.
Pero halin subong, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo magapungko na sa tuo sang makagagahom nga Dios.”
Nagsiling sila tanan, “Kon amo, ikaw gali ang Anak sang Dios.” Nagsabat si Jesus, “Ti kamo mismo ang nagasiling.”
Gani nagsiling sila, “Ti ano pa gid nga mga ebidensya ang aton kinahanglan? Kita na mismo ang nakabati sang iya ginhambal.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagtindog sila tanan kag gindala nila si Jesus kay Pilato.
Dayon gin-akusar nila si Jesus kay Pilato. Siling nila, “Ini nga tawo nadakpan namon nga nagapatalang sang amon kasimanwa nga mga Judio, kay ginasilingan niya sila nga indi magbayad sing buhis sa Emperador, kag nagasiling pa gid siya nga siya amo ang Cristo. Ang buot niya silingon nga siya isa ka hari.”
Gani ginpamangkot siya ni Pilato, “Ikaw bala ang hari sang mga Judio?” Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ginasiling mo.”
Dayon nagsiling si Pilato sa manugdumala nga mga pari kag sa mga tawo, “Wala ako sang nakita nga sala sa sini nga tawo para silutan siya.”
Pero nagpamilit gid sila nga nagasiling, “Nagadala siya sang gamo sa mga tawo sa bilog nga Judea paagi sa iya mga pagpanudlo, halin sa Galilea hasta diri sa Jerusalem.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Pilato, nagpamangkot siya kon taga-Galilea bala si Jesus.
Sang pagkahibalo niya nga si Jesus halin sa lugar nga sakop sang ginadumalahan ni Herodes, ginpadala niya si Jesus sa iya, kay sang sadto nga tion ato man si Herodes sa Jerusalem.
Pagkakita ni Herodes kay Jesus nalipay gid siya, kay dugay na ang iya handom nga makita si Jesus tungod kay madamo na ang iya nabatian parte sa iya, kag ginaekspektar niya nga maghimo siya sang milagro para makita niya.
Madamo ang mga pamangkot ni Herodes kay Jesus, pero wala gid siya magsabat.
Ang manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nagatindog didto kag kon anu-ano pa ang ila mga akusasyon kay Jesus.
Gin-insulto kag ginyaguta siya ni Herodes kag sang iya mga guwardya. Kag dugang pa gid nga pagyaguta, Kag dugang pa gid nga pagyaguta, ginpasuksukan nila siya sang matahom gid nga bayo, nga daw isa ka dungganon nga tawo, kag ginpabalik didto kay Pilato.
Sa sadto nga adlaw nag-amigohay si Pilato kag si Herodes, kay sadto anay nagakontrahanay sila.
Ginpatawag ni Pilato ang manugdumala nga mga pari, ang mga manugdumala sang banwa, kag ang mga tawo.
Dayon nagsiling siya sa ila, “Gindala ninyo diri sa akon ining tawo nga ginasiling ninyo nga nagapatalang sa mga tawo. Pero sa akon pag-usisa sa iya sa atubangan mismo ninyo, wala gid ako sing may nakita nga sala sa iya nga pareho sang inyo ginasugid.
Bisan si Herodes gani wala man sing may nakita nga sala sa sining tawo. Amo gani nga ginpabalik niya siya diri. Wala gid sing may nahimo ini nga tawo nga takos sang kamatayon.
Gani ipahanot ko lang siya kag buy-an.”
Sa tagsa ka Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel kinahanglan ni Pilato nga maghilway sang isa ka priso.
Pero nagsinggit ang mga tawo, “Patya ang tawo nga ina kag buy-i sa amon si Barabas!”
(Napriso si Barabas tungod nga kaupod siya nga nagrebelde sa Jerusalem kag nakapatay pa siya.)
Gusto kuntani ni Pilato nga buy-an si Jesus, gani ginhambalan pa gid niya ang mga tawo.
Pero sige ang singgit sang mga tawo, “Ilansang siya sa krus! Ilansang siya sa krus!”
Naghambal pa gid sa ila si Pilato sa ikatlo, “Ngaa, ano gid bala nga sala ang nahimo niya? Wala ako sing may nakita nga sala sa iya nga takos sang kamatayon. Ipahanot ko siya kag buy-an dayon.”
Pero sige pa gid ang ila sininggit nga ilansang siya sa krus. Kag sang ulihi ginpamatian gid man sila.
Nagdesisyon si Pilato nga pasugtan ang gusto sang mga tawo nga ilansang si Jesus sa krus nga ilansang si Jesus sa krus .
Ginbuy-an niya ang tawo nga napriso tungod sang iya pagrebelde sa gobyerno kag pagpamatay, kay amo ato ang ginpangayo sang mga tawo. Pero si Jesus ya, gintugyan niya sa ila para mahimo nila ang ila gusto sa iya.
Sang ginadala nila si Jesus sa lugar nga pagalansangan sa iya, may nasugata sila nga tawo nga si Simon nga taga-Cyrene. Nagapasulod siya sa siyudad halin sa uma. Ginhawiran nila siya, kag ginpapas-an nila sang krus, kag ginpasunod kay Jesus.
Madamo nga tawo ang nagsunod kay Jesus. May mga babayi didto nga nagahilibion kag nagapanalambiton tungod nga naluoy gid sila kay Jesus.
Pero ginbalikid sila ni Jesus kag ginsilingan, “Kamo nga mga babayi nga taga-Jerusalem, indi kamo maghibi tungod sa akon. Hibii ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon kag ang inyo mga anak.
Tungod nga magaabot ang mga inadlaw nga magasiling ang mga tawo, ‘Bulahan ang mga babayi nga baw-as kag wala sing may ginapatiti.’
Sa sina nga tion magasiling ang mga tawo sa mga bukid, ‘Tiphagi kami kag tabuni!’
Kay kon ginahimo nila ini sa akon nga wala gani sing sala, ti ano pa gid ayhan kalain ang ila himuon sa tawo nga may sala?”
Luwas kay Jesus may duha pa ka tawo nga mga kriminal nga ila gindala para pagapatyon.
Pag-abot nila sa lugar nga ginatawag “Bagol,” ginlansang nila si Jesus sa krus upod ang duha ka kriminal. Ang isa ginbutang nila sa tuo ni Jesus kag ang isa sa wala.
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Amay, patawara sila kay wala sila kahibalo sang ila ginahimo.”
Nagatilindog didto ang mga tawo nga nagatulok. Ginyaguta siya sang mga manugdumala sang banwa. Siling nila, “Ginluwas niya ang iban, luwason man niya ang iya kaugalingon kon siya amo ang Cristo nga pinili sang Dios.”
Nagyaguta man sa iya ang mga soldado samtang nagapalapit sila para paimnon siya sang maaslom nga bino.
Siling nila, “Kon ikaw ang Hari sang mga Judio, luwasa ang imo kaugalingon!”
amo ini ang hari sang mga judio. amo ini ang hari sang mga judio.
Ang isa sa mga kriminal nga nalansang sa krus nagyaguta man kay Jesus. Siling niya, “Indi bala nga ikaw ang Cristo? Luwasa ang imo kaugalingon kag kami man!”
Pero ginsaway siya sang isa ka kriminal. Siling niya, “Wala ka bala nahadlok sa Dios? Pareho man lang kita nga ginasilutan.
Kita nga duha dapat lang nga silutan tungod sang aton mga sala. Pero ini nga tawo wala gid sing sala.”
Dayon nagsiling siya kay Jesus, “Jesus, dumduma man ako kon maghari ka na!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Matuod ining ginasiling ko sa imo nga subong nga adlaw mangin kaupod ko ikaw sa Paraiso.”
Nagsinggit sing mabaskog si Jesus, “Amay, ginatugyan ko sa imo ang akon espiritu!”
Pagkakita sang kapitan sang natabo, nagdayaw siya sa Dios. Siling niya, “Matuod gid nga wala sing sala ini nga tawo!”
Ang mga tawo nga nagtilipon sa pagtan-aw sang nagakalatabo nagpalauli nga nagapamukpok sang ila dughan tungod sang dako nga kasubo tungod sang dako nga kasubo .
Ang mga nakakilala kay Jesus kag ang mga babayi nga nag-upod sa iya halin pa sa Galilea nagtindog sa malayo kag nakita man nila ang nagkalatabo.
Nagkadto siya kay Pilato kag ginpangayo niya ang bangkay ni Jesus.
Dayon ginkuha niya ang bangkay ni Jesus sa krus kag ginsamburan sang tela nga linen. Ginbutang niya ang bangkay sa lulubngan nga gin-guhab sa banglid nga wala pa gid malubngi.
Biyernes sadto kag adlaw sang pagpreparar para sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Ang mga babayi nga nag-upod kay Jesus halin sa Galilea nagsunod man kay Jose kag nakita nila ang ginlubngan kag kon paano ang pagbutang sang bangkay ni Jesus.
Pero sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagpahuway sila suno sa Kasuguan.
Aga pa gid sang nahauna nga adlaw sang semana, nagkadto ang mga babayi sa lulubngan nga dala ang ginpreparar nila nga pahamot.
Pag-abot nila didto, nakita nila nga ang bato nga gintakop sa lulubngan napaligid na.
Nagsulod sila, pero wala nila makita ang bangkay ni Ginoong Jesus.
Sang nagapalibog sila kon ano ang natabo, hinali lang nga may nagtindog nga duha ka lalaki sa tupad nila. Ang ila mga bayo masyado kasilaw.
Hinadlukan gid ang mga babayi, gani nagduko na lang sila. Pero nagsiling ang duha ka lalaki, “Ngaa ginapangita ninyo ang buhi diri sa mga patay?
Wala na siya diri. Nabanhaw siya! Indi bala nagsiling siya sa inyo sang didto pa siya sa Galilea,
nga siya nga Anak sang Tawo kinahanglan itugyan sa mga makasasala kag ilansang sa krus, pero sa ikatlo nga adlaw mabanhaw siya?”
Kag nadumduman sang mga babayi ang ginhambal ni Jesus.
Gani nagpuli sila halin sa lulubngan kag ginsugiran nila ang onse ka apostoles ka apostoles kag ang iban pa nga mga sumulunod.
Ang mga babayi nga nagsugid sa mga apostoles amo sila ni Maria nga taga-Magdala, si Juana, si Maria nga iloy ni Santiago, kag ang iban pa gid nga mga babayi.
Pero wala nagpati ang mga apostoles, kay ang hunahuna nila nga himo-himo lang ini sang mga babayi.
Pero nagdalagan si Pedro pakadto sa lulubngan. Pag-abot niya didto nagduko siya kag naglingling sa sulod, kag nakita niya nga ang mga tela nga linen nga ginputos kay Jesus amo na lang ang nabilin. Gani nagpuli siya nga natingala kon ano gid ang natabo.
Sa sadto gid nga adlaw, may duha ka sumulunod ni Jesus nga nagalakat pakadto sa baryo nga ginatawag Emaus, nga mga onse ka kilometro halin sa Jerusalem.
Nagaestorya sila parte sa mga nagkalatabo sa Jerusalem.
Sang nagaestorya sila kag nagabaisay parte sadto nga mga butang parte sadto nga mga butang , nagpalapit si Jesus kag nag-upod sa ila.
Wala sila makakilala sa iya tungod kay ginlipod ini sa ila mga panulok.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ano ang inyo ginahambalan samtang nagalakat kamo?” Nagpundo ang duha kag ang ila dagway nagapakita nga nagapangasubo sila.
Ang isa sa ila nga ang iya ngalan si Cleopas nagsabat, “Ikaw lang siguro ang pangayaw sa Jerusalem nga wala kahibalo kon ano ang mga nagkalatabo didto sa sining mga inadlaw.”
Nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa, ano bala ang natabo?” Nagsabat sila, “Parte bala kay Jesus nga taga-Nazaret. Makagagahom siya nga propeta sa panulok sang Dios kag sang mga tawo paagi sa iya mga pagpanudlo kag gamhanan nga mga hinimuan.
Gin-akusar siya sang aton manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang iban pa gid naton nga mga manugdumala para sentensyahan sang kamatayon. Kag ginlansang siya sa krus.
Naglaom kami nga siya amo na ang amon ginahulat nga magabawi sang aton nasyon nga Israel sa kamot sang mga taga-Roma sa kamot sang mga taga-Roma . Ugaling ikatlo na ini subong nga adlaw halin sang ginpatay siya.
Pagkatapos, ang iban sang amon mga kaupod nagkadto man sa lulubngan, kag ang ginsugid sang mga babayi amo man ang ila nakita. Wala gid nila makita si Jesus didto.”
Dayon nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkabalingag gid sang inyo mga panghunahuna! Ngaa bala wala ninyo pagpatihi dayon ang tanan nga ginhambal sang mga propeta sa Kasulatan sa Kasulatan ?
Indi bala nga kinahanglan nga mag-antos anay ang Cristo sang mga butang nga ini sa wala pa siya mapadunggan sang Dios?”
Kag ginpaathag sa ila ni Jesus ang tanan nga ginasiling sang Kasulatan parte sa iya, halin sa mga ginsulat ni mga ginsulat ni Moises hasta sa mga ginsulat sang mga ginsulat sang mga propeta.
Pag-abot nila sa baryo nga ila kaladtuan, ginpakita ni Jesus nga daw magapadayon siya sa iya paglakat.
Pero ginpilit gid nila nga hawiran siya. Siling nila, “Diri ka lang anay sa amon kay nagasalop na ang adlaw. Dugay-dugay gab-i na.” Gani nag-upod siya sa ila.
Sang nagapungko na sila para magkaon, nagkuha si Jesus sang tinapay kag nagpasalamat sa Dios. Dayon ginpamihak-pihak niya kag ginhatag sa ila.
Kag ginbuksan na ang ila panulok kag nakilala nila nga si Ginoong Jesus gali ato, pero hinali lang nga nadula siya sa ila panulok.
Nagsiling sila, “Amo gali nga kanami gid sang aton balatyagon sang ginpaathagan niya kita sang Kasulatan samtang nagalakat kita sa dalan.”
Dayon nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem kag naabtan nila ang onse ka apostoles ka apostoles kag ang iban pa gid nga mga sumulunod nga nagatilipon
kag nagasiling, “Matuod gid man nga nabanhaw ang Ginoo! Nagpakita siya kay Simon.”
Kag nagsugid man ang duha kon ano ang natabo sa ila didto sa dalan pa-Emaus kag kon paano nila nakilala si Jesus sang nagapamihak-pihak siya sang tinapay.
Samtang ginaestoryahan nila ini, hinali lang nga nagtindog si Jesus didto sa tunga nila kag nagsiling, “Kabay pa nga ang kalinong ara sa inyo.”
Kinulbaan kag hinadlukan gid sila kay abi nila kalag ang ila nakita.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ngaa bala natublag gid kamo? Kag ngaa bala nagapangduhaduha kamo nga ako ini?
Tan-awa bala ninyo ang agi sang mga lansang sa agi sang mga lansang sa akon mga kamot kag mga tiil. Hikapa ninyo ako. Indi ako kalag. Ang kalag wala sing lawas pero ako ya may lawas kag makita gid ninyo.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sini ginpakita niya sa ila ang mga pilas sa mga pilas sa iya mga kamot kag mga tiil.
Sa ila dako nga kalipay kag katingala daw indi sila makapati sang ila nakita. Kag nagpamangkot si Jesus sa ila, “May pagkaon bala kamo diri?”
Ginhatagan nila siya sang isa ka gulot nga sinugba nga isda.
Ginkuha niya kag ginkaon samtang nagatulok sila.
Pagkatapos nagsiling siya sa ila, “Amo ini ang akon ginsiling sa inyo sang nagaupdanay pa kita, nga ang tanan nga nasulat parte sa akon sa Kasuguan ni Moises, sa mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta, kag sa mga salmo kinahanglan gid nga matuman.”
Dayon ginbuksan ni Jesus ang ila mga hunahuna para maintiendihan nila ang Kasulatan.
Siling niya sa ila, “Nagasiling ang Kasulatan nga ang Cristo kinahanglan gid nga mag-antos kag mapatay, pero mabanhaw siya sa ikatlo nga adlaw.
Kag kinahanglan nga isugid sa tanan nga nasyon halin sa Jerusalem nga tungod sa iya
Kamo ang mga saksi sa sini nga mga butang.
Ipadala ko sa inyo ang Espiritu Santo nga Espiritu Santo nga ginpromisa sang akon Amay. Pero indi kamo anay maghalin diri sa Jerusalem samtang wala pa ninyo mabaton ang gahom nga halin sa langit.”
Dayon gindala sila ni Jesus sa Betania. Pag-abot nila didto ginbayaw niya ang iya mga kamot kag ginbendisyunan sila.
Samtang nagabendisyon siya sa ila amat-amat siya nga nagbulag sa ila kag gindala pa-langit.
Ginsimba nila siya kag nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem nga may dako nga kalipay.
Kag permi sila didto sa templo nga nagadayaw sa Dios.
Sang una pa nga daan,
Halin pa gid sang una ang Pulong kaupod na sang Dios.
Paagi sa iya, ginhimo ang tanan nga butang, kag wala gid sing may nahimo nga indi paagi sa iya.
Ang Pulong amo ang ginahalinan sang kabuhi. Kag ini nga kabuhi pareho sa suga tungod kay amo ini ang nagapasanag sa hunahuna sang mga tawo.
Ini nga suga nagapasanag sa kadulom
Karon may tawo nga ginpadala sang Dios. Ang iya ngalan si Juan.
Ginpadala siya sang Dios sa pagsugid kon sin-o ang suga, agod paagi sa iya magatuo ang tanan nga tawo.
Indi si Juan ang suga, kundi nag-abot siya sa pagsugid kon sin-o ang suga.
Si Jesu-Cristo amo ang matuod nga suga nga nag-abot diri sa kalibutan kag nagapasanag sa hunahuna sang tanan nga tawo.
Nag-abot siya diri sa kalibutan. Kag bisan ginhimo ang kalibutan paagi sa iya, ang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan
Nagkadto siya sa iya mismo mga kasimanwa mga kasimanwa , pero ang kalabanan sa ila wala magbaton sa iya.
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga nagbaton kag nagtuo sa iya
Nangin anak sila sang Dios indi paagi sa lawasnon nga pagkatawo ukon sa pagbuot sang tawo, kundi paagi sa pagbuot sang Dios.
Ang Pulong nagpakatawo kag nagpakig-upod diri sa aton. Nakita namon ang iya kadungganan bilang bugtong nga Anak sang Amay. Puno siya sang kaayo kag puro kamatuoran ang iya ginasugid.
Nagpamatuod si Juan parte sa iya. Nagsiling siya, “Siya amo ang akon ginasiling nga magaabot nga ulihi sa akon. Pero labaw pa siya sang sa akon, kay sa wala pa ako natawo, ara na siya nga daan.”
Tungod sa dako nga kaluoy ni Cristo ang iya mga pagpakamaayo sa aton tanan nagasinunod-sunod lang.
Ang Kasuguan ginhatag sang Dios sa aton paagi kay Moises, pero ang bugay kag ang kamatuoran nag-abot sa aton paagi kay Jesu-Cristo.
Wala gid sing bisan sin-o nga tawo nga nakakita sa Dios nga Amay nga Amay . Pero ginpakilala siya sa aton sang bugtong nga Anak nga Dios nga kaupod permi sang Amay.
Nagpamatuod si Juan parte kay Jesus parte kay Jesus sang ginpakadto sa iya sang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio sa Jerusalem ang pila ka pari kag Levita para pamangkuton siya kon sin-o gid siya.
Ginprangka sila ni Juan, “Indi ako ang Cristo nga inyo ginahulat nga inyo ginahulat .”
Nagpamangkot sila, “Kon indi ikaw ang Cristo, sin-o? Si Elias nga propeta nga propeta ?” Nagsabat si Juan, “Indi ako si Elias Elias .” Gani nagsiling sila liwat, “Siguro Gani nagsiling sila liwat, “Siguro ikaw ang ginasiling nga ginasiling nga Propeta nga magaabot nga magaabot ?” Pero nagsabat naman si Juan nga indi siya ang Propeta nga ila ginasiling ang Propeta nga ila ginasiling .
Gani nagsiling sila, “ Ti sugiri kami kon Ti sugiri kami kon sin-o gid ikaw para may isugid man kami sa mga nagsugo sa amon. Ano ang masiling mo parte sa imo kaugalingon?”
Tadlunga ang alagyan nga pagaagyan sang Ginoo!’ ”
Ang mga nagsugo gali sa ato nga mga tawo nga nagkadto kay Juan amo ang mga Pariseo.
Ginpamangkot nila liwat si Juan, “Ngaa nga nagapangbautiso ka sang mga tawo kon indi ikaw ang Cristo, ukon si Elias, ukon ang Propeta nga amon ginahulat nga mag-abot nga amon ginahulat nga mag-abot ?”
Nagsabat si Juan, “Ako nagapangbautiso sa tubig, pero may ara sa inyo subong nga wala ninyo makilala.
Siya ang ginasiling ko nga ginasiling ko nga magaabot nga nagasunod sa akon, pero indi gani ako takos nga mangin iya ulipon.”
Natabo ini sa Betania, sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, nga sa diin nagapangbautiso si Juan.
Sang sunod nga adlaw nakita ni Juan si Jesus nga nagapalapit sa iya. Nagsiling dayon si Juan sa mga tawo sa mga tawo , “Ari na ang Karnero sang Dios nga magkuha sang sala sang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan.
Siya amo ang akon ginasiling nga magaabot nga ulihi sa akon, pero labaw pa siya sang sa akon, kay sa wala pa ako natawo, ara na siya nga daan.
Sang una bisan gani ako wala makakilala kon sin-o gid siya. Pero nagkadto ako diri nga nagapangbautiso sa tubig para ipakilala siya sa mga taga-Israel.
Nagapamatuod ako nga nakita ko ang Espiritu Santo Santo nga nagpanaog sa iya halin sa langit nga pareho sang pating kag nagpabilin sa iya.
Sang una bisan gani ako wala makakilala kon sin-o gid siya, pero ang Dios nga nagsugo sa akon nga magbautiso sa tubig amo ang nagsiling nga daan sa akon nga kon makita ko na gani ang Espiritu Santo Santo nga magpanaog kag magpabilin sa isa ka tawo, ina nga tawo amo ang magabautiso sa Espiritu Santo.
Kag ina nakita ko gid. Gani napamatud-an ko gid nga siya amo ang Anak sang Dios.”
Sang sunod nga adlaw, didto naman si Juan kaupod ang duha ka tawo nga iya sumulunod.
Pagkakita niya kay Jesus nga nagalabay, nagsiling siya, “Ari na ang Karnero sang Dios.”
Pagkabati sadto sang duha niya ka sumulunod, nagsunod sila dayon kay Jesus.
Pagbalikid ni Jesus, nakita niya sila nga nagasunod. Gani nagpamangkot siya, “Ano bala ang inyo kinahanglan?” Nagsabat sila, “Rabbi, sa diin ka bala nagaestar?” (Ang buot silingon sang Rabbi “Manunudlo.”)
Nagsiling siya, “Dali, upod kamo sa akon para makita ninyo.” Gani nag-upod sila kag nakita nila ang iya ginaestaran. Mga alas kuwatro na sadto sang hapon, gani didto na lang sila nagpabilin hasta mag-aga.
Ang isa sa duha nga nakabati sa ginsiling ni Juan kag nagsunod kay Jesus amo si Andres nga utod ni Simon Pedro.
Pagkaaga, Pagkaaga, ginpangita niya dayon ang iya utod nga si Simon kag ginsugiran niya nga nakita nila ang Mesias. (Ang buot silingon sang Mesias “Cristo.”)
Dayon gindala niya si Simon kay Jesus. Pag-abot nila kay Jesus, gintulok ni Jesus si Simon kag nagsiling, “Ikaw si Simon nga anak ni Juan. Pero halin subong tawgon ka na nga Cefas.” Ang Cefas pareho man sa ngalan nga Pedro.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagdesisyon si Jesus nga magkadto sa Galilea. Pag-abot niya didto, Pag-abot niya didto, nakita niya si Felipe kag ginsilingan, “Dali, sunod sa akon!”
(Si Felipe nga ini taga-Betsaida.
Dayon ginpangita ni Felipe si Natanael. Kag sang nakita na niya, sang nakita na niya, nagsiling siya sa iya, “Nakita na namon ang tawo nga ginmitlang ni Moises sa Kasuguan kag ginmitlang man sa ginsulat ginmitlang man sa ginsulat sang mga propeta. Siya gali amo si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret nga anak ni Jose.”
Nagsiling si Natanael, “May ara bala nga maayo halin sa Nazaret?” Nagsabat si Felipe, “Dali, upod bala para makita mo.”
Pagkakita ni Jesus kay Natanael nga nagapalapit sa iya, nagsiling siya, “Ari ang matuod nga Israelinhon nga wala gid nagadaya.”
Nagsiling dayon si Natanael sa iya, “Ngaa kilala mo ako?” Nagsabat si Jesus, “Sa wala ka pa gintawag ni Felipe, nakita ko na ikaw didto sa idalom sang kahoy nga higera.”
Gani nagsiling si Natanael, “Manunudlo,” matuod gid nga ikaw ang Anak sang Dios! Ikaw ang hari sang Israel.
Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa iya, “Nagatuo ka bala sa akon tungod kay nagsiling ako sa imo nga nakita ko ikaw didto sa idalom sang kahoy nga higera? Mas sobra pa dira ang imo makita sa pila ka adlaw.”
Kag nagsiling pa gid si Jesus sa iya, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga magaabot ang adlaw nga makita ninyo ang langit nga nagaabri kag makita man ninyo ang mga anghel sang Dios nga nagasaka-panaog pakadto
Pagkaligad sang duha ka adlaw, may kasal sa Cana nga sakop sang Galilea. Didto ang iloy ni Jesus.
Gin-imbitar man si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod.
Kag natabuan nga naubos ang bino didto sa punsyon didto sa punsyon . Gani nagsiling ang iloy ni Jesus sa iya, “Naubusan sila sing bino.”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Babayi,
Nagsiling dayon ang iloy ni Jesus sa mga suluguon, “Himua lang ninyo ang bisan ano nga isugo niya.”
May mga pagsulundan ang mga Judio sa pagpanghinaw antes magkaon. Gani may anom didto ka tadyaw nga ang kada tadyaw sarang masudlan sang mga 20 ukon 30 ka galon nga tubig.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa mga suluguon, “Pun-a ninyo sing tubig ang mga tadyaw.” Gani ginpuno nila ini.
Pagkatapos nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sige, magsandok kamo kag dal-a sa nagadumala sang punsyon.” Gani nagsandok sila kag gindala didto sa nagadumala,
kag gindimdiman dayon sang nagadumala ang tubig nga nahimo nga bino. Wala siya nakahibalo kon diin naghalin ang bino. (Pero nakahibalo ang mga suluguon nga nagsandok sang tubig.) Gani gintawag niya ang nobyo
kag ginsilingan, “Kalabanan sa mga tawo nagaserbi sang maayo nga klase nga bino sa umpisa kag kon damo na gani ang nainom sang mga bisita, amo na ang ila paghatag sang ordinaryo nga bino. Pero ikaw ya lain, kay subong mo lang ginpaguwa ang maayo nga klase nga bino.”
Ang natabo nga ini sa Cana nga sakop sang Galilea amo ang una nga milagro nga ginhimo ni Jesus. Sa iya ginhimo nga ini Sa iya ginhimo nga ini ginpakita niya ang iya gahom, kag nagtuo sa iya ang iya mga sumulunod.
Pagkatapos sang kasal, nagpa-Capernaum si Jesus kaupod sang iya iloy, mga utod, kag mga sumulunod, kag nagtiner sila didto sing pila ka adlaw.
Malapit na ang piesta sang mga Judio nga ginatawag nga Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Gani nagpa-Jerusalem si Jesus.
Kag didto didto may nakita siya nga mga tawo sa templo nga nagabaligya sang mga inughalad nga mga baka, mga karnero kag mga pating. May mga tawo man didto nga nagapangbaylo sang kuwarta sa ila mga lamisa.
Gani naghimo siya sing halanot nga lubid. Pagkatapos ginpanabog niya ang mga karnero kag mga baka paguwa sa templo. Ginpangwas-ag man niya ang mga kuwarta sang mga manugbaylo sang kuwarta kag ginpamaliskad ang ila mga lamisa.
Nagsiling siya sa mga nagabaligya sang pating, “Kuhaa ninyo ini diri! Indi ninyo paghimua nga balaligyaan ang balay sang akon Amay!”
Sa sining iya ginhimo, nadumduman sang iya mga sumulunod ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan, “Tungod sang akon pagpakamahal sa imo balay malaglag ako.”
Tungod sang iya ginhimo, nagpamangkot ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio sa iya, “Ano nga milagro ang imo mahimo nga ipakita sa amon nga ikaw may awtoridad sa paghimo sini?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Gub-a ninyo ang templo nga ini kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw patindugon ko liwat.”
Nagsiling sila, “Ang templo nga ini ginpatindog sa sulod sang 46 ka tuig kag patindugon mo lang sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw?”
Pero wala sila nakaintiendi, kay wala sila nakaintiendi, kay ang ginatumod ni Jesus nga templo amo ang iya lawas.
Gani sang nabanhaw siya, nadumduman sang iya mga sumulunod nga ginhambal niya ini. Kag nagpati sila sa ginpropesiya sa ginpropesiya sang Kasulatan kag sa iya ginsiling parte sa iya pagkabanhaw parte sa iya pagkabanhaw .
Sang didto si Jesus sa Jerusalem, sang tiyempo sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel, madamo ang nakakita sang mga milagro nga iya ginpanghimo kag madamo sa ila ang nagtuo sa iya.
Pero si Jesus wala nagsalig sa ila pagtuo sa iya kay nahibaluan man niya ang tanan nga tawo.
Indi na kinahanglan nga sugiran pa siya parte sa mga tawo, kay nahibaluan na niya nga daan kon ano gid ang sa sulod sang ila tagipusuon.
May isa ka tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Nicodemus. Ini nga tawo isa sa mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, kag miyembro siya sang grupo nga ginatawag nga Pariseo.
Isa sadto ka gab-i, nagkadto siya kay Jesus kag nagsiling sa iya, “Rabbi,
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa imo nga wala sing tawo nga masakop sa paghari sang Dios
Nagpamangkot si Nicodemus, “Ti, paano ang pagkatawo liwat sang tawo kon tigulang na siya? Indi na siya puwede nga magsulod sa tiyan sang iya iloy para magpakatawo liwat.”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa imo nga wala sing tawo nga masakop sa paghari sang Dios kon indi siya matawo paagi sa tubig kag sa Espiritu Santo Santo .
Ang ginbata paagi sa tawo, tawhanon, pero ang ginbata paagi sa gahom sang Espiritu Santo Santo , espirituhanon.
Gani indi ka matingala sa akon ginsiling sa imo nga kinahanglan matawo kamo liwat.
Nagahuyop ang hangin sa bisan diin nga iya gusto. Mabatian ta ang iya huni, pero wala kita kahibalo kon diin ini nagahalin kag kon diin ini nagapakadto. Pareho man sini sa tawo nga natawo paagi sa Espiritu Santo Santo .”
Gani nagpamangkot si Nicodemus, “Ti paano bala ang pagkahimo sini?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Bantog ka nga manunudlo sa Israel, pero wala ka kahibalo sini?
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa imo nga ang mga butang nga amon nahibaluan kag nakita amo ang amon ginasugid. Ugaling indi kamo magpati sa amon ginasugid.
Karon, kon wala gani kamo nagapati sa akon ginasugid sa inyo parte sa mga butang diri sa kalibutan, mas indi na gid kamo magpati sa akon kon sugiran ko kamo parte sa mga butang didto sa langit.
Kag wala sing bisan sin-o nga nakasaka sa langit kundi ako lang gid nga ako lang gid nga Anak sang Tawo, kay didto man ako ako naghalin sa langit.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Pareho sang ginhimo ni Moises sa iya pagbayaw sang man-og sa kamingawan, sa amo man nga paagi, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo kinahanglan nga pagabayawon man,
para ang kada isa nga magtuo sa akon makaangkon sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.”
Kay ginahigugma gid sang Dios ang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan, amo gani nga ginhatag niya ang iya bugtong nga Anak, para ang bisan sin-o nga magtuo sa iya indi mawala
Kay ang Dios wala nagpadala sang iya Anak diri sa kalibutan para sentensyahan ang mga tawo nga silutan nga silutan , kundi ginpadala niya siya sa pagluwas sang mga tawo.
Gani Gani ang bisan sin-o nga tawo nga nagatuo sa iya indi pagsentensyahan nga silutan nga silutan , pero ang bisan sin-o nga wala nagatuo sa iya sa iya nasentensyahan na tungod nga wala siya nagtuo sa bugtong nga Anak sang Dios.
Silutan sila tungod kay nag-abot siya diri sa kalibutan bilang suga
Ang tawo nga malain ang iya ginahimo wala naluyag sa kasanag. Nagalikaw pa gani siya sa kasanag kay basi kon mahibaluan ang iya ginahimo nga malain.
Pero ang tawo nga nagaginawi suno sa kamatuoran nagapalapit sa kasanag, para makita nga ang iya maayo nga hinimuan nahimo niya paagi sa bulig sang Dios.
Pagkatapos sini nagkadto si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa kaumahan sang Judea. Nagtiner sila didto nga nagapangbautiso sa mga tawo.
Nagapangbautiso man si Juan didto sa Enon, malapit sa Salim, kay madamo ang tubig didto. Nagkaladto ang mga tawo kay Juan para magpabautiso.
(Wala pa sadto napriso si Juan.)
Karon ang iban sa mga sumulunod ni Juan kag ang isa ka Judio nagbinaisay parte sa bautiso.
Sang ulihi nagkadto sila kay Juan kag nagsiling, “Manunudlo, nadumduman mo bala atong tawo nga upod mo anay didto sa tabok sang Suba sang Suba sang Jordan, nga imo ginpakilala sa mga tawo? Nagapangbautiso na siya subong kag halos ang tanan nga tawo didto na nagakadto sa iya!”
Nagsabat si Juan, “Wala gid sing sarang mahimo ang tawo kon indi pagbuot sang Dios.
Kamo mismo makapamatuod nga nagsiling ako nga indi ako ang Cristo, kundi ginpadala lang ako sang Dios sang Dios una sa iya para magbalita nga siya magaabot na para magbalita nga siya magaabot na .
Pareho bala kon may kasal Pareho bala kon may kasal : ang nobya para gid lang sa nobyo, kag ang amigo sang nobyo nga nagatambong kag nagahulat nagakalipay kon mabatian niya nga ara na ang nobyo. Pareho man sa akon subong, nalipay gid ako nga ang mga tawo nagakadto na kay Jesus nga ang mga tawo nagakadto na kay Jesus .
Kinahanglan magdugang pa gid ang pagkabantog ni Jesus, kag ako ya dapat na nga kalimtan.”
Si Cristo halin sa langit, gani labaw siya sa tanan. Taga-diri kita sa kalibutan kag ang mga butang nga aton ginahambal amo ang diri lang gid sa kalibutan. Pero siya nga halin sa langit labaw sa tanan.
Nagasugid siya parte sa mga butang nga iya nakita kag nabatian sa langit, pero diutay gid lang ang nagapati sa iya ginasugid.
Pero ang mga nagapati sa iya nga ginasugid nagapamatuod nga ang ginasugid sang Dios matuod.
Kay si Cristo nga ginpadala sang Dios diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan nagasugid sa aton kon ano ang ginasugid sang Dios sa iya, tungod kay wala sing limitasyon ang paghatag sang Dios sa iya sang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Ginahigugma sang Amay ang iya Anak kag gintugyan niya sa iya ang tanan.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagatuo sa Anak sang Dios sang Dios may kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga indi magtuman sa Anak sang Dios sang Dios indi gid paghatagan sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan , kundi ang kaakig sang Dios magapabilin sa iya.
Sa ila pagpakadto sa Galilea Sa ila pagpakadto sa Galilea kinahanglan gid nga mag-agi sila sa Samaria.
Sang nagaagi na sila sa Samaria, nakaabot sila sa banwa nga ginatawag Sicar, malapit sa duta nga ginhatag ni Jacob sa iya anak nga si Jose.
May bubon didto nga ginhimo ni Jacob. Kag tungod nga udtong-adlaw na kag nakapoy na gid si Jesus sa iya paglakat, nagpungko na lang siya sa higad sang bubon.
Nagsiling ang babayi sa iya, “Indi bala nga ikaw Judio kag ako Samariahanon, kag babayi pa.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa babayi, “Kon nahibaluan mo lang kon ano ang ginahatag sang Dios, kag kon sin-o ang nagapangayo sa imo sang tubig, ikaw pa kuntani ang mangayo sa akon para hatagan ko ikaw sang tubig nga nagahatag sang kabuhi.”
Nagsiling ang babayi sa iya, “Sir, wala ka sing timba kag madalom ang bubon. Diin bala ikaw makakuha sang tubig nga nagahatag sang kabuhi?
Ang aton katigulangan nga si Jacob amo ang nagkutkot sini nga bubon. Siya kag ang iya mga anak pati ang iya mga kasapatan nag-inom sa sini nga bubon. Ano, sobra ka pa bala sa aton katigulangan nga si Jacob?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Ang bisan sin-o nga nagainom sa sini nga tubig pagauhawon liwat.
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga magainom sang tubig nga akon ihatag indi na pag-uhawon hasta san-o. Kay ang tubig nga akon ihatag sa iya mangin pareho sang buhi nga tuburan dira sa iya nga magahatag sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.”
Gani nagsiling ang babayi kay Jesus, “Sir, hatagi man ako sina nga tubig nga imo ginasiling para indi na ako pag-uhawon liwat, kag para indi na kinahanglan nga magbalik-balik pa ako diri para magsag-ob.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ti kadtui ang imo bana kag dal-a diri.”
Nagsabat ang babayi, “Wala ako sing bana.” Nagsiling si Jesus, “Husto ina. Wala matuod ikaw sing bana,
kay sadto lima ang imo nangin bana, kag ang lalaki nga imo ginapuyo subong indi mo matuod nga bana. Gani matuod ang ginasiling mo nga ina.”
Nagsiling ang babayi sa iya, “Sir, siguro propeta ka.
Ang amon mga katigulangan nagsimba sa Dios sa sini nga bukid, pero kamo nga mga Judio nga mga Judio nagasiling nga ang mga tawo dapat magsimba sa Dios sa Jerusalem.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa babayi, “Pamati bala anay! Magaabot ang tion nga indi na kamo magsimba sa Amay sa sini nga bukid ukon sa Jerusalem.
Kamo nga mga Samariahanon nga mga Samariahanon wala gid kamo makakilala kon sin-o ang inyo ginasimba. Pero kami nga mga Judio nakakilala kon sin-o ang amon ginasimba, kay paagi sa amon luwason sang Dios ang mga tawo.
Sa pagkamatuod, magaabot ang adlaw kag nag-abot na gani, nga ang matuod nga mga manugsimba magasimba sa Amay paagi sa espiritu kag kamatuoran. Kag amo ini nga klase sang mga manugsimba ang gusto sang Dios nga magasimba sa iya.
Ang Dios espiritu, gani ang nagasimba sa iya dapat magsimba paagi sa espiritu kag kamatuoran.”
Nagsiling ang babayi, “Nahibaluan ko nga magaabot ang Mesias nga ginatawag man nga Cristo. Kag kon mag-abot na siya, sugiran niya kita parte sa tanan nga butang.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ako nga nagapakighambal sa imo subong amo ang ginasiling mo nga magaabot.”
Pagkasiling niya sini nag-abot dayon ang iya mga sumulunod. Natingala gid sila sang nakita nila nga nagapakighambal siya sa isa ka babayi. Pero wala gid sing bisan sin-o sa ila nga nagpamangkot sa babayi kon ano ang iya kinahanglan. Wala man sila nagpamangkot kay Jesus kon ngaa nagapakighambal siya sa babayi.
Dayon ginbilin sang babayi ang iya banga nga salag-uban kag nagbalik sa banwa. Pag-abot niya didto Pag-abot niya didto nagsiling dayon siya sa mga tawo,
“Dali bala kamo, tan-awa ninyo ang tawo nga nakahibalo sang tanan ko nga ginpanghimo. Basi kon amo na ini ang Cristo.”
Gani nagkadto ang mga tawo didto kay Jesus.
Samtang wala pa nag-alabot ang mga tawo didto kay Jesus, ginpangabay si Jesus sang iya mga sumulunod nga magkaon na.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “May pagkaon ako nga wala ninyo mahibalui.”
Gani nagpinamangkutanay ang iya mga sumulunod kon bala may nagdala sa iya sing pagkaon.
Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa ila, “Ang akon kalan-on amo ang pagtuman sang kabubut-on sang nagpadala sa akon kag ang pagtapos sang buluhaton nga iya ginpahimo sa akon.
Indi bala nagasiling man kamo nga apat pa ka bulan bag-o mag-abot ang tig-alani. Pero kon sa akon lang, tig-alani na ini. Tan-awa bala ninyo ang madamo nga tawo nga nagaalabot! Kon sa mga alanihon pa, ina luto na gid, kag alanihon na.
Kamo nga bilang mga manug-ani may pagabatunon kamo nga balos halin sa Dios halin sa Dios . Kag ang mga tawo, nga bilang mga tawo, nga bilang inyo ginaani, pagahatagan niya niya sing kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Gani ang mga nagatanom sang pulong sang Dios sang pulong sang Dios kag ang mga nagaani sang bunga pareho nga magakalipay.
Matuod gid man ang ginasiling nga ‘lain ang nagatanom kag lain man ang nagaani.’
Ang inyo halimbawa pareho sa mga manug-ani nga akon ginpadala nga mag-ani sa mga alanihon nga indi kamo ang nagtanom. Kay iban ang nagtudlo anay sa ila, kag kamo ang nakapulos sang ila pinangabudlayan.”
Madamo nga Samariahanon sa sadto nga lugar ang nagtuo kay Jesus tungod sa ginsugid sang babayi nga nahibaluan ni Jesus ang tanan niya nga ginpanghimo.
Gani pag-abot sang mga Samariahanon didto kay Jesus, ginpangabay gid nila siya nga kon mahimo magtiner siya anay didto sa ila. Gani nagtiner siya didto sing duha ka adlaw.
Tungod sa iya mga ginpanudlo, madamo pa gid nga mga tawo didto ang nagtuo sa iya.
Nagsiling dayon ang mga tawo sa babayi, “Karon nagatuo kami sa iya indi lang tungod sa imo ginsugid sa amon, kundi kami gid mismo nakabati sa iya. Kag nahibaluan namon nga siya amo ang Manluluwas sang kalibutan.”
Pagkatapos sang duha ka adlaw nga pagtiner nila ni Jesus didto, nagpa-Galilea dayon sila.
(Si Jesus mismo ang nagsiling nga ang propeta wala ginatahod sa iya kaugalingon nga banwa.)
Karon pag-abot nila sa Galilea, maayo ang pagbaton sa ila sang mga tawo. Kay ang ini nga mga tawo didto man sang pagpiesta sa Jerusalem kag nakita nila ang tanan nga iya ginpanghimo didto.
Nagbalik liwat si Jesus sa Cana nga sakop sang Galilea, sa lugar nga sa diin ginhimo niya nga bino ang tubig. Karon, may isa ka opisyal sang gobyerno didto nga ang iya anak nga lalaki nagamasakit didto sa Capernaum.
Pagkabati niya nga si Jesus nagbalik sa Galilea halin sa Judea, nagkadto dayon siya kay Jesus kag ginpangabay niya siya nga magkadto sa Capernaum sa Capernaum kag ayuhon ang iya anak nga daw mapatay na gid.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Kon indi kamo anay makakita sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang, indi pa kamo magtuo sa akon.”
Pero nagsiling ang opisyal nga nagapakitluoy, “Sir, kon mahimo upod man anay sa akon samtang buhi pa ang akon anak.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Magpuli ka na. Maayo na ang imo bata.” Nagpati ang opisyal sa ginhambal ni Jesus sa iya, gani nagpuli siya dayon.
Samtang nagapapuli siya, ginsugata siya sang iya mga ulipon kag ginsugiran nga ang iya anak maayo na.
Gani nagpamangkot siya kon ano nga oras nag-ayo ang iya anak. Nagsiling ang mga ulipon, “Mga ala una kahapon sang hapon wala na siya sing hilanat.”
Nadumduman dayon sang opisyal nga amo gid ato nga oras sang nagsiling si Jesus sa iya nga ang iya anak maayo na. Gani siya kag ang iya bilog nga panimalay nagtuo kay Jesus kay Jesus .
Amo ini ang ikaduha nga milagro nga ginhimo ni Jesus sa Galilea sang paghalin niya sa Judea.
Pagkatapos sadto, nagpa-Jerusalem naman si Jesus sa pagtambong sa isa ka piesta sang mga Judio.
Sa isa ka puwertahan sang pader sang Jerusalem, nga alagyan sang mga karnero, may tubig nga palaligusan nga kon sa Hebreo nga pulong ginatawag nila nga Betesda.
nga sa diin nagahiligda ang madamo nga masakiton—mga bulag, mga piang kag mga paralitiko.
Nagahulat sila nga maghulag ang tubig. Kay kon kaisa, may anghel sang Dios nga nagapanaog didto kag ginaukay niya ang tubig. Ang makauna lusong sa tubig sa tapos ini maukay sang anghel nagaayo bisan ano pa ang iya masakit.
Karon, may isa ka tawo didto nga ang iya masakit 38 na ka tuig.
Nakita siya ni Jesus nga nagahigda didto, kag nahibaluan ni Jesus nga ang iya masakit amo na sadto kadugay. Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Gusto mo bala nga mag-ayo?”
Nagsabat ang masakiton, “Kuntani, sir, pero wala sing tawo nga magdala sa akon sa tubig kon ginaukay na. Samtang nagapakadto pa lang ako sa tubig ginaunahan ako permi sang iban.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Bangon, dal-a ang imo hiligdaan kag maglakat.”
Natabo ini sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Gani nagsiling ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio sa tawo nga gin-ayo, “Adlaw ini nga Inugpahuway kag wala ikaw ginatugot nga magdala sang imo hiligdaan.”
Nagsiling ang tawo nga gin-ayo. “Ang tawo nga nag-ayo sa akon amo ang nagsiling sa akon nga dal-on ko ang akon hiligdaan kag maglakat.”
Gani ginpamangkot nila siya kon sin-o bala nga tawo ang nagsugo sa iya nga magdala sang iya hiligdaan kag maglakat.
Pero wala siya makakilala kon sin-o ang nag-ayo sa iya, kay nadula man lang si Jesus tungod sa kadamuon sang mga tawo.
Sang ulihi nakita liwat ni Jesus ang tawo nga iya gin-ayo nga didto sa templo, kag nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ti maayo ka na subong. Indi ka na magpakasala, kay basi mas malain pa gid ang matabo sa imo.”
Naglakat dayon ang tawo kag nagkadto sa mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio. Ginsugiran niya sila nga si Jesus ang nag-ayo sa iya.
Gani halin sadto ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio nag-umpisa na nga maghingabot kay Jesus, tungod kay nagpang-ayo siya sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Pero may rason si Jesus, siling niya sa ila, “Ang akon Amay nagapadayon sa pag-obra, gani ako nagaobra man.”
Tungod sa sining ginhambal ni Jesus nagtinguha pa gid gani ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio nga patyon siya, tungod kay indi lang nga ginlapas niya ang kasuguan parte sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kundi nagsiling pa gid siya nga ang Dios amo ang iya gid mismo nga Amay, nga nagakahulugan nga nagapakigtupong siya sa Dios.
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ako nga Anak sang Dios sang Dios wala gid sing may mahimo kon sa akon lang, kundi kon ano ang akon nakita nga ginahimo sang akon Amay amo man ina ang akon ginahimo. Gani kon ano ang ginahimo sang akon Amay, amo man ina ang akon ginahimo bilang Anak.
Palangga sang Amay ang Anak, gani ginapakita niya sa akon nga iya Anak ang tanan nga iya ginahimo. Kag sobra pa gid sa sini nga mga butang ang ipakita sang Amay sa akon nga akon himuon nga akon himuon para matingala kamo tanan.
Kon ang Amay nagabanhaw sang mga patay kag nagahatag sa ila sing kabuhi, ako nga iya Anak nagahatag man sing kabuhi sa kay bisan sin-o nga akon gusto hatagan.
Indi ang Amay ang magahukom sa mga tawo; kundi ako nga iya ako nga iya Anak amo ang ginhatagan sang awtoridad nga maghukom,
para ang tanan magpadungog sa Anak pareho sang ila pagpadungog sa Amay. Gani ang wala nagapadungog sa akon wala man nagapadungog sa Amay nga nagpadala sa akon.
“Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang tawo nga nagatuman sang akon mga pulong kag nagatuo sa nagpadala sa akon may kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Indi na siya pagsilutan tungod kay ginsaylo na siya halin sa kamatayon pakadto sa kabuhi.
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga magaabot ang tiyempo, kag nag-abot na gani, nga ang mga patay
Tungod nga ang Amay may gahom sa paghatag sang kabuhi, ako nga iya ako nga iya Anak makahatag man sang sina nga kabuhi, kay ginhatagan man niya ako sing gahom sa paghatag sina sa mga tawo.
Ginhatagan man niya ako sing awtoridad nga maghukom tungod kay ako amo ang Anak sang Tawo.
Indi kamo matingala sa sini nga mga butang, kay magaabot ang tion nga ang tanan nga patay makabati sang akon pulong,
kag magaguwa sila sa ila lulubngan. Ang mga tawo nga naghimo sing maayo banhawon kag hatagan sing kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan , kag ang mga tawo nga naghimo sing malain banhawon man pero silutan.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Wala ako sing sarang mahimo kon ako lang. Nagahukom ako matuod, pero ang akon paghukom suno sa ginsugid sang Dios sa akon. Gani ang akon paghukom matarong tungod kay wala ako nagahimo sang akon gusto, kundi ang gusto sang nagpadala sa akon.
Karon, kon ako lang gid ang nagasugid parte sa akon kaugalingon makaduda kamo sa akon ginahambal.
Pero may isa nga nagapamatuod parte sa akon, kag nahibaluan ko nga ang iya ginahambal masaligan.
Nagpamatuod man si Juan nga manugbautiso nga manugbautiso parte sa akon. Indi bala may mga ginsugo kamo kay Juan para pamangkuton siya? Kag nagsugid siya sang matuod.
Kon sa bagay wala ako nagakinahanglan sang pagpamatuod sang tawo parte sa akon parte sa akon . Ginasambit ko lang si Juan para magtuo magtuo kamo sa akon kag sa akon kag maluwas.
Ang halimbawa ni Juan pareho sang suga nga nagasiga kag nagasanag; kag indi bala nalipay kamo, bisan dali lang, sa iya mga ginpasanag sa inyo?
Pero may nagapamatuod pa gid parte sa akon nga sobra pa kay Juan. Ini wala sing iban kundi ang mga butang nga ginahimo ko nga ginapahimo sang Amay sa akon. Nagapamatuod ini nga ang Amay amo ang nagpadala sa akon.
Kag ang Amay nga nagpadala sa akon amo man mismo ang nagpamatuod parte sa akon. Pero wala gid ninyo siya nakita ukon nabatian nga nagahambal,
kag wala man ninyo ginbaton ang iya pulong, tungod kay wala kamo nagapati sa akon nga iya ginpadala.
Ginatun-an ninyo sing maayo ang Kasulatan kay nagahunahuna kamo nga sa sini nga paagi maangkon ninyo ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Ang Kasulatan mismo nagapamatuod parte sa akon.
Pero indi man gihapon kamo magpalapit sa akon para maangkon ninyo ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
“Wala ko ginapangita nga dayawon ako sang mga tawo.
Kilala ko gid kamo kag nahibaluan ko nga sa inyo mga tagipusuon wala kamo sing paghigugma sa Dios.
Nagkadto ako diri nga may awtoridad halin sa Amay, pero wala kamo nagabaton sa akon. Pero kon may iban nga mag-abot nga nagagamit sang iya kaugalingon nga awtoridad, amo ang inyo batunon.
Paano ang inyo pagtuo sa akon kon ang pagdayaw sang inyo mga kapareho amo lang ang inyo ginapangita kag wala ninyo ginapangita ang pagdayaw nga halin sa Dios, nga amo lang ang matuod nga Dios?
Indi kamo maghunahuna nga ako ang magaakusar sa inyo sa Amay. Si Moises mismo nga inyo ginasaligan amo ang magaakusar sa inyo.
Kon matuod nga nagapati kamo kay Moises, kuntani magpati man kamo sa akon, tungod nga si Moises mismo nagsulat parte sa akon.
Pero tungod kay wala kamo nagapati sa iya mga ginsulat, amo ina nga indi man kamo magpati sa akon ginasiling sa inyo.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagtabok liwat si Jesus sa Dagat sang Galilea nga ginatawag man nga Dagat sang Tiberias.
Madamo nga tawo ang nagsulunod sa iya, tungod kay nakita nila ang iya mga ginpanghimo nga mga milagro sa iya pagpang-ayo sang mga masakiton.
Nagtaklad si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod sa bukid kag didto nagpungko.
(Malapit na lang sadto ang piesta sang mga Judio nga ginatawag Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.)
Pagtan-aw ni Jesus, nakita niya nga madamo nga tawo ang nagapalapit sa iya. Gani nagsiling siya kay Felipe, “Sa diin bala kita makabakal sang pagkaon
(Amo ini ang iya pamangkot tungod kay gusto niya nga tilawan si Felipe. Pero sa pagkamatuod, may plano na siya nga daan kon ano ang iya himuon.)
Nagsiling si Felipe sa iya, “Sa kadamuon sang mga tawo nga ini, bisan gamay lang ang aton ihatag, ang walo ka bulan nga suweldo sang isa ka tawo kulang pa nga ibakal sang ila pagkaon.”
Pero nagsiling ang utod ni Simon Pedro nga si Andres nga isa man sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus,
“May bata diri nga lalaki nga may lima ka tinapay
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Papungkua ninyo ang mga tawo.” Kag ginpapungko nila sila, kay hilamunon man ato nga lugar. Ang mga lalaki lang mga 5,000 nga daan.
Pagkatapos ginkuha ni Jesus ang tinapay kag nagpasalamat sa Dios sa Dios , kag ginpanagtag niya ini sa mga tawo nga nagapungko didto. Amo man ang iya ginhimo sa isda, kag nabusog sila tanan.
Pagkatapos nila kaon, nagsiling si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod, “Tipuna ninyo ang mga nabilin para wala gid sing may mausik.”
Gani gintipon nila ang tanan nga nabilin. Kag halin sa lima ka tinapay nga barley nga ginpakaon sa mga tawo, nakapuno pa sila sang dose ka alat.
Pagkakita sang mga tawo sadto nga milagro nga ginhimo ni Jesus, nagsiling sila, “Amo na gid ini matuod ang Propeta nga aton ginahulat nga magaabot diri sa kalibutan!”
Nakahibalo na nga daan si Jesus nga may tuyo sila nga kuhaon siya kag piliton nga mangin hari nila. Gani naghalin siya didto kag nagtaklad balik sa bukid nga siya lang.
Sang sirom na, nagdulhog sa baybay ang iya mga sumulunod
kag nagsakay sa sakayan. Gab-i na, pero wala pa makabalik si Jesus didto sa ila. Gani nag-umpisa na lang sila nga magtabok pabalik sa Capernaum.
Samtang nagatabok sila, Samtang nagatabok sila, hinali lang nga nagbaskog ang hangin kag nagdalagko ang mga balod.
Pagkaantad nila sing mga lima ukon anom ka kilometro, nakita nila si Jesus nga nagalakat sa ibabaw sang tubig pakadto sa ila sakayan, kag hinadlukan sila.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi kamo magkahadlok, ako ini!”
Gani ginpasakay nila siya. Pagkasakay ni Jesus, nakaabot sila dayon sa ila kaladtuan.
Gani pagkahibalo sang mga tawo nga wala na didto si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod, nagsakay sila sa mga sakayan kag nagpa-Capernaum para pangitaon si Jesus.
Pag-abot nila didto sa Capernaum nakita nila si Jesus. Nagsiling sila, “Manunudlo, san-o ka pa diri?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ginapangita ninyo ako indi tungod sa mga milagro nga inyo nakita, kundi tungod kay ginpakaon ko kamo sang tinapay kag nabusog kamo.
Pero indi kamo magpangabudlay para sa pagkaon nga madunot man lang, kundi magpangabudlay kamo magpangabudlay kamo para sa pagkaon nga nagapadayon hasta san-o, nga nagahatag sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Ako nga Ako nga Anak sang Tawo amo ang magahatag sa inyo sini nga pagkaon, kay ako ang ginhatagan sang Dios nga Amay sang awtoridad nga maghatag sini.”
Gani nagpamangkot sila sa iya, “Ti ano ang dapat namon nga himuon para masunod namon ang gusto nga ipahimo sang Dios?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Ang gusto sang Dios nga inyo himuon amo ini: magtuo kamo sa akon nga iya ginpadala.”
Nagsiling man sila, “Ti, ano nga milagro ang imo mapakita sa amon para magtuo kami sa imo?
Sadto anay ang aton mga katigulangan nagkaon sang manna sang didto pa sila sa kamingawan. Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan nga ginhatagan sila ni Moises sang tinapay nga halin sa langit.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga indi si Moises ang naghatag sang tinapay nga halin sa langit kundi ang akon Amay. Kag siya amo man ang nagahatag sa inyo sang matuod nga tinapay nga halin sa langit.
Kay ang tinapay nga ginahatag sang Dios wala sing iban kundi siya nga naghalin sa langit kag nagahatag sang kabuhi sa mga tawo diri sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan.”
Nagsiling dayon ang mga tawo, “Ti, sir, hatagi man kami permi sina nga tinapay nga imo ginasiling.”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Ako amo ang tinapay
“Pero pareho bala sang ginsiling ko anay sa inyo, indi gihapon kamo magtuo sa akon bisan nakita na ninyo ang mga milagro nga akon ginhimo ang mga milagro nga akon ginhimo .
Ang tanan nga tawo nga ginahatag sang Amay sa akon magapalapit sa akon, kag ang mga nagapalapit sa akon indi ko gid pagsikwayon.
Kay nagkadto ako diri halin sa langit indi para tumanon ko ang akon kaugalingon nga kabubut-on, kundi para tumanon ko ang kabubut-on sang Amay nga nagpadala sa akon.
Kag ang kabubut-on sang nagpadala sa akon amo ini: nga indi ko pagpabay-an nga mawala ang bisan isa ka tawo nga iya gintugyan sa akon, kundi nga banhawon ko sila sa katapusan nga adlaw.
Kay amo ini ang gusto sang akon Amay: nga ang tanan nga nagakilala kag nagatuo sa akon nga iya akon nga iya Anak makaangkon sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan, kag banhawon ko sila sa katapusan nga adlaw.”
Karon, nagkulumuron ang mga Judio kontra kay Jesus, kay nagsiling siya nga siya amo ang tinapay nga naghalin sa langit.
Nagsiling sila, “Si Jesus man lang ina nga anak ni Jose. Ngaa nagasiling siya nga halin siya sa langit, kay kilala ta man gani ang iya amay kag iloy?”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Indi kamo magsagi kumod dira.
Wala sing tawo nga makapalapit sa akon kon indi pagtandugon ang iya tagipusuon sang Amay nga nagpadala sa akon. Kag ang mga tawo nga magpalapit sa akon banhawon ko sa katapusan nga adlaw.
Nagsiling ang isa sa mga propeta, ‘Tudluan sila tanan sang Dios.’
Wala ini nagakahulugan nga may tawo na nga nakakita sa Amay. Ako nga naghalin sa Dios nga Amay amo gid lang ang nakakita sa iya.
“Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang nagatuo sa akon sa akon may kabuhi na nga wala sing katapusan,
tungod kay ako amo ang tinapay nga nagahatag sang kabuhi.
Ang inyo mga katigulangan nagkaon sang manna sang didto pa sila sa kamingawan, pero nagkalamatay gihapon sila.
Pero may ara sang tinapay nga naghalin sa langit, kag ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sini indi na mapatay.
Ako amo ang buhi nga tinapay nga naghalin sa langit. Ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sa sini nga tinapay magakabuhi hasta san-o. Tungod kay ang tinapay nga akon ihatag sa iya wala sing iban kundi ang akon lawas. Ini nga lawas ihatag ko para makabaton ang mga tawo diri sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .”
Nagbinaisay ang mga Judio nga nagapamati kay Jesus nga nagapamati kay Jesus . Nagsiling sila, “Paano bala ang paghatag sang tawo nga ini sa aton sang iya lawas para kaunon ta?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasiling ko sa inyo nga kon indi kamo magkaon sang lawas sang Anak sang Tawo kag kon indi kamo mag-inom sang iya dugo, indi gid kamo makabaton sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga nagakaon sang akon lawas kag nagainom sang akon dugo may kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan, kag banhawon ko siya sa katapusan nga adlaw.
Kay ang akon lawas kag ang akon dugo amo ang matuod nga tinapay kag matuod nga ilimnon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagakaon sang akon lawas kag nagainom sang akon dugo nagapabilin sa akon kag ako nagapabilin man sa iya.
Ang Dios nga Dios nga Amay nga nagpadala sa akon amo ang ginahalinan sang kabuhi, kag tungod sa iya nagakabuhi ako. Pareho man sini ang matabo sa mga nagakaon sa akon, magakabuhi man sila tungod sa akon.
Ako ang tinapay nga naghalin sa langit. Indi ini pareho sa manna nga ginkaon sang inyo mga katigulangan, kay nagkalamatay gihapon sila. Ang nagakaon sang sini nga tinapay nga akon ginasiling sa inyo magakabuhi hasta san-o.”
Ini nga mga butang ginahambal ni Jesus sang siya nagapanudlo didto sa simbahan sang mga Judio sa Capernaum.
Madamo sa iya mga sumulunod ang nakabati sa iya gintudlo, kag nagsiling sila, “Tama kabudlay ining ginatudlo niya, sin-o bala ang makabaton sini?”
Bisan wala sing may nagsugid kay Jesus, nahibaluan niya nga ang iya mga sumulunod mismo nagakulumuron tungod sang iya pagpanudlo nga ato. Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Nasakitan bala kamo sa akon ginahambal?
Ti paano na lang kon ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo makita ninyo nga nagsaka pabalik sa akon ginhalinan?
Ang Espiritu Santo Santo amo ang nagahatag sang kabuhi. Ang tawo indi makahimo sini. Ang akon mga ginahambal sa inyo halin sa Espiritu Santo Santo , kag nagahatag sang kabuhi.
Pero may ara sa inyo nga wala nagatuo sa akon.” (Nagsiling siya sini tungod kay nahibaluan na niya nga daan kon sin-o atong mga indi magatuo kag kon sin-o ang magatraidor sa iya.)
Kag nagsiling pa gid siya, “Amo ini ang kabangdanan kon ngaa nagsiling ako sa inyo nga wala sing may makapalapit sa akon kon indi siya pagtugutan sang Amay.”
Halin sadto, madamo sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus ang nagbiya sa iya kag wala na magsagi upod.
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa iya dose ka apostoles ka apostoles , “Ti, mabiya man bala kamo sa akon?”
Nagsabat si Simon Pedro sa iya, “Ginoo, sa kay sin-o pa bala kami makadto? Ikaw lang ang may mensahi nga makahatag sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Nagatuo kami sa imo tungod kay nahibaluan namon nga ikaw amo gid ang Balaan nga ginpadala sang Dios.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi bala ginpili ko kamo nga dose? Pero ang isa sa inyo yawa!”
Ang ginatumod ni Jesus amo si Judas nga anak ni Simon Iscariote.
Pagkatapos sadto, naglibot-libot si Jesus sa Galilea. Ginlikawan niya nga magkadto sa Judea tungod kay ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio nagtinguha sa pagpatay sa iya.
Karon, sang malapit na ang piesta sang mga Judio nga ginatawag Piesta sang Pagpatindog sang mga Payag,
nagsiling ang mga utod ni Jesus sa iya, “Ngaa indi ka maghalin diri kag magkadto sa Judea para makita sang imo mga sumulunod ang mga milagro nga imo ginahimo?
Kay wala sing tawo nga nagatago sang iya ginabuhat kon gusto siya makilala sang tanan. Gani kon nagahimo gid man ikaw sang mga milagro, ipakita mo na lang ini sa tanan!”
(Amo ini ang ginhambal sang mga utod ni Jesus kay bisan gani sila wala man nagtuo sa iya.)
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kamo puwede maghimo sang inyo gusto bisan ano nga oras, pero kon sa akon, indi pa ini ang husto nga tion nga himuon ko ang dapat ko nga himuon.
Kamo indi pagdumtan sang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan, pero ako ginadumtan nila kay ginabuyagyag ko ang ila malain nga mga ginahimo.
Kamo lang ang magpamiesta. Pero indi lang ako kay wala pa mag-abot ang akon tiyempo.”
Pagkahambal niya sini sa ila nagpabilin siya sa Galilea.
Pagkahalin sang mga utod ni Jesus para magpamiesta, nagsunod man si Jesus sa ila. Wala siya mag-upod sa kadam-an tungod kay indi niya gusto nga mahibaluan sang mga tawo nga didto siya.
Didto sa piesta, ginpangita siya sang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio. Nagsiling sila, “Diin bala siya?”
Naghinuring-huring ang mga tawo parte sa iya. Ang iban nagsiling, “Maayo siya nga tawo.” Pero may iban man nga nagsiling, “Indi ina matuod, kay ginatunto lang niya ang mga tawo.”
Pero sekreto gid lang ang ila pag-estorya parte sa iya, kay nahadlok sila sa mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio.
Sang nagatunga-tunga na ang piesta, nagkadto si Jesus sa templo kag nagpanudlo.
Natingala gid ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio. Siling nila, “Sa diin bala nakakuha sang kaalam ang tawo nga ini? Wala gani siya nakaeskwela.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ang mga ginatudlo ko sa inyo wala naghalin sa akon, kundi naghalin sa Amay nga nagpadala sa akon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga gusto magtuman sang kabubut-on sang Dios, makahibalo kon ining akon ginatudlo halin sa Dios ukon akon-akon lang.
Ang tawo nga nagatudlo sa iya kaugalingon nga kaalam nagapadungog sa iya lang kaugalingon. Pero ang nagapadungog sa nagpadala sa iya, amo ang mapatihan kag wala sing kalautan sa iya.
Indi bala nga ginhatag sa inyo ni Moises ang Kasuguan? Pero wala gid sing bisan isa sa inyo nga nagatuman sang Kasuguan, tungod kay kon nagatuman kamo, ngaa gusto ninyo ako nga patyon?”
Nagsiling ang mga tawo, “Ginagamhan ka siguro sang demonyo! Ngaa, sin-o bala ang gusto magpatay sa imo?”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Natingala kamo tungod kay may tawo ako nga gin-ayo sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Pero hunahunaa bala ninyo Pero hunahunaa bala ninyo : gintudluan kamo ni Moises nga dapat tulion ninyo ang inyo mga kabataan. (Kon sa bagay ini wala nag-umpisa kay Moises kundi sa inyo mga katigulangan sang una pa gid). Gani ginatuli ninyo sila bisan Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Kon ginatuli gani ninyo ang bata sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway para indi ninyo malapas ang Kasuguan ni Moises,
Indi kamo magsiling nga ang ginahimo sang tawo malain kon wala kamo makausisa. Usisaa ninyo anay siya para mahibaluan ninyo kon ano ang husto.”
May mga taga-Jerusalem nga nagsiling, “Indi bala amo ini ang tawo nga ginahingabot sang aton mga lider nga patyon?
Pero ari siya nagahambal sa mga tawo, kag ang aton mga lider wala man lang nagahambal kontra sa iya. Basi kon nahibaluan na gid man nila nga siya amo ang Cristo.
Pero nahibaluan ta gid kon diin naghalin ang tawo nga ini. Pero kon ang Cristo na ang mag-abot wala sing may makahibalo kon diin siya maghalin.”
Gintuduhan dayon ni Jesus ang iya tingog didto sa templo. Nagsiling siya, “Ti ano, nakilala na ninyo kon sin-o gid ako, kag kon diin ako naghalin? Sa matuod lang, wala ako nagkadto diri sa kalibutan suno sa akon kaugalingon nga gusto, kundi ang matuod nga Dios amo ang nagpadala sa akon. Wala ninyo siya makilala.
Pero ako ya, kilala ko siya, tungod kay didto ako naghalin sa iya, kag siya mismo ang nagpadala sa akon.”
Tungod sa sining ginhambal ni Jesus, dakpon na siya kuntani sang mga lider sang mga Judio. Pero wala sing may nagdakop sa iya, kay wala pa mag-abot ang iya tion.
Sa pihak sina, madamo pa gid sa mga tawo ang nagtuo sa iya. Nagsiling sila, “Siya na gid siguro ang Cristo, kay wala sing may makadaog sa iya sa mga milagro nga iya ginahimo.”
Nabatian sang mga Pariseo ang mga hinuring-huring sang mga tawo parte kay Jesus, gani sila kag ang mga manugdumala nga mga pari nagsugo sa mga guwardya sang templo nga dakpon si Jesus.
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Malip-ot na lang ang tion nga magpakig-upod ako sa inyo tungod kay magabalik na ako sa nagpadala sa akon.
Pangitaon ninyo ako, pero indi na ninyo ako makita, tungod kay indi kamo makakadto sa akon kaladtuan.”
Nagpinamangkutanay ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio, “Sa diin bala siya makadto nga indi ta siya makita? Ano, makadto bala siya sa mga siyudad sang mga Griego (nga sa diin ang iban nga mga Judio naglalapta) para magpanudlo sa mga Griego?
Kay ngaa nagasiling siya nga ‘Pangitaon ninyo ako, pero indi na ninyo ako makita, tungod kay indi kamo makakadto sa akon kaladtuan’?”
Karon, nag-abot ang katapusan nga adlaw sang piesta. Amo ini ang pinakaimportante nga adlaw sang piesta. Sa sadto nga adlaw nagtindog si Jesus kag naghambal sing mabaskog, “Ang bisan sin-o nga ginauhaw magpalapit sa akon kag mag-inom.
Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan nga ang bisan sin-o nga magtuo sa akon, magailig halin sa iya tagipusuon ang tubig nga nagahatag sang kabuhi.”
(Ang buot silingon ni Jesus sa tubig nga nagahatag sang kabuhi amo ang Espiritu Santo Santo nga madali na lang ihatag sa mga tawo nga nagatuo sa iya. Sadto nga tiyempo wala pa mahatag ang Espiritu Santo Santo , tungod kay wala pa makabalik si Jesus sa langit.)
Madamo sa mga tawo ang nakabati sang ginhambal ni Jesus, kag nagsiling ang iban, “Ini nga tawo amo na gid ang Propeta nga aton ginapaabot nga aton ginapaabot .”
Nagsiling man ang iban, “Amo na ini ang Cristo!” Pero nagsiling pa gid ang iban, “Indi, kay indi mahimo nga ang Cristo magahalin sa Galilea.
Indi bala nagasiling ang Kasulatan nga ang Cristo magahalin sa kaliwat ni David, kag matawo sa Betlehem, ang baryo nga ginhalinan ni David?”
Gani lain-lain ang pagpati sang mga tawo parte kay Jesus.
Ang iban didto gusto magdakop sa iya, pero wala gid sing may nagpangisog sa pagdakop sa iya.
Karon, nagbalik ang mga guwardya sang templo sa mga manugdumala nga mga pari kag mga Pariseo nga nagsugo sa ila para dakpon si Jesus. Pag-abot sang mga guwardya, nagsiling dayon ang nagsugo sa ila, “Ngaa wala ninyo siya pagdakpa kag dal-on diri?”
Nagsiling ang mga guwardya, “Karon pa gid lang kami nakabati sang tawo nga nagahambal pareho sadto.”
Nagsiling ang mga Pariseo, “Ang buot ninyo silingon pati kamo natunto man niya?
May nakita bala kamo nga mga Pariseo kag mga manugdumala nga nagatuo sa iya?
Wala gid! Ang mga tawo lang gid nga wala kahibalo sang Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises ang nagatuo sa iya. Pakamalauton gid sila sang Dios.”
Ang isa sini sa ila nga mga Pariseo amo si Nicodemus. Amo ini siya ang tawo nga nagpakigkita anay kay Jesus.
Nagsiling siya sa iya mga kaupod, “Indi bala nga kontra sa aton kasuguan ang pagsentensya sa tawo nga wala ta pa nabatian sa iya mismo kon ano ang iya ginhimo?”
Nagsiling sila kay Nicodemus, “Ano, daw sa taga-Galilea ka man. Usisaa bala ang Kasulatan ang Kasulatan kag makita mo nga wala gid sing propeta sang Dios nga magahalin sa Galilea.”
Pagkatapos sadto nagpalauli sila tanan.
Nagkadto si Jesus sa Bukid sang mga Olibo.
Sang kaagahon, nagbalik siya liwat sa templo. Madamo nga tawo ang nagtilipon didto sa iya. Gani nagpungko siya kag nagpanudlo sa ila.
Karon, ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag ang mga Pariseo nagdala didto kay Jesus sang isa ka babayi nga nadakpan nga nagapanginlalaki, kag ginpatindog nila siya sa atubangan sang tanan nga tawo.
Nagsiling sila dayon kay Jesus, “Manunudlo, nadakpan ang ini nga babayi sa akto mismo nga nagapanginlalaki.
Suno sa Kasuguan ni Moises, ang pareho sini nga klase sang babayi dapat batuhon hasta mapatay. Ti, ano sa imo?”
Amo ato ang ila pamangkot tungod kay ginatilawan lang nila si Jesus, para kon magsala siya sa iya sabat may iakusar sila kontra sa iya. Pero ang ginhimo ni Jesus, nagduko siya kag nagsulat sa duta paagi sa iya tudlo.
Pero tungod kay sige gihapon ang ila pamangkot sa iya, nagtindog si Jesus kag nagsiling sa ila, “Kon sin-o sa inyo ang wala sing sala amo ang mag-una haboy sa iya sing bato.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sadto, nagpungko siya kag nagduko, kag nagsulat liwat sa duta.
Pagkabati sadto sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan kag sang mga Pariseo, isa-isa sila nga naghalin umpisa sa mga tigulang, hasta nga si Jesus na lang ang nabilin kag ang babayi nga nagatindog pa didto.
Nagtindog si Jesus kag nagsiling sa babayi, “Ti diin na sila? Wala gid sing may nagsentensya sa imo?”
Nagsiling ang babayi, “Wala gid, sir.” Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ako wala man nagasentensya sa imo. Magpuli ka na, pero indi ka na magpakasala liwat.”
Nagsiling liwat si Jesus sa mga tawo, “Ako ang suga sang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan. Ang nagasunod sa akon, indi na magakabuhi sa kadulom, kundi masanagan siya sang suga nga nagahatag sang kabuhi.”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga Pariseo, nagsiling sila, “Ikaw man lang ang nagasugid parte sa imo kaugalingon, gani indi ka mapatihan.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Bisan tuod nga nagasugid ako parte sa akon kaugalingon, ang akon ginasugid matuod, tungod kay nahibaluan ko kon diin ako naghalin kag kon diin ako makadto. Pero kamo wala kahibalo kon diin ako naghalin kag kon diin ako makadto.
Ang inyo pagsentensya indi masaligan tungod kay ina suno gid lang sa hunahuna sang tawo. Pero ako wala nagasentensya kay bisan sin-o.
Kag kon magsentensya gid man ako, ang akon sentensya husto, tungod kay indi lang ako ang magasentensya kundi duha kami duha kami , ako kag ang Amay nga nagpadala sa akon.
Indi bala nasulat sa inyo Kasuguan nga kon magsinanto ang sugid sang duha ka tawo, ang ila sugid matuod?
Ako nagapamatuod parte sa akon kaugalingon kag ang Amay nga nagpadala sa akon nagapamatuod man parte sa akon.”
Nagsiling ang mga Pariseo sa iya, “Ti, sa diin bala ang imo amay?” Nagsiling si Jesus, “Wala kamo makakilala sa akon ukon sa akon Amay. Kon nakilala kuntani ninyo ako, makilala man ninyo ang akon Amay.”
Ini tanan ginhambal ni Jesus sang nagatudlo siya sa templo, malapit sa ginabutangan sang kuwarta. Pero wala sing may nagdakop sa iya, kay wala pa mag-abot ang iya tion.
Nagsiling liwat si Jesus sa mga lider sang mga Judio, “Malakat ako, kag pangitaon ninyo ako, pero magakalamatay lang kamo nga nagapadayon sa pagpakasala. Kag indi kamo makakadto sa akon kaladtuan.”
Gani nagpinamangkutanay sila,
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kamo kalibutanon, pero ako langitnon. Kamo iya sang kalibutan, pero ako ya indi.
Amo ina nga nagsiling ako sa inyo nga magakalamatay lang kamo nga wala mapatawad ang inyo mga sala. Kay kon indi kamo magtuo nga ako amo ang Cristo, sigurado gid nga magakalamatay lang kamo nga nagapadayon sa pagpakasala.”
Nagsiling sila, “Ngaa, sin-o ka gid bala?” Nagsiling si Jesus, “Indi bala ginsugiran ko na kamo halin pa sang una kon sin-o gid ako?
Madamo ang akon inugsentensya kontra sa inyo mga ginahimo. Sa pagkamatuod, ang mga butang nga akon ginasugid sa mga tawo amo lang ang mga butang nga ginapahambal sa akon sang nagpadala sa akon. Kag ang tanan nga iya ginasugid matuod.”
Wala sila makaintiendi nga naghambal siya sa ila parte sa Amay.
Gani nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kon ibayaw
Ang nagpadala sa akon nagaupod permi sa akon kag wala niya gid ako ginapabay-an, tungod kay kon ano ang iya gusto amo man ang akon ginahimo.”
Pagkabati sang mga tawo sa sining mga ginhambal ni Jesus, madamo sa ila ang nagtuo sa iya.
Karon, nagsiling si Jesus sa mga Judio nga nagtuo sa iya, “Kon padayon kamo nga nagatuman sa akon mga ginatudlo, matuod gid nga kamo akon mga sumulunod.
Mahibaluan ninyo ang kamatuoran kag ang kamatuoran amo ang magahilway sa inyo.”
Nagsiling sila sa iya, “Mga kaliwat kami ni Abraham, kag wala pa gid sing may nakaulipon sa amon. Ngaa nagasiling ka nga mahilway kami?”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakasala, ulipon sang sala.
Ang isa ka ulipon umalagi lang sa panimalay, pero ang anak ya permanente.
Gani kon ang Anak sang Dios sang Dios amo ang magahilway sa inyo, mahilway gid kamo.
Nahibaluan ko nga mga kaliwat kamo ni Abraham, pero ginatinguhaan ninyo nga patyon ako tungod kay indi kamo magbaton sang akon mga ginatudlo.
Ginasugid ko sa inyo ang mga butang nga akon nakita sa Amay; pero kamo, ginahimo ninyo ang inyo nabatian sa inyo amay.”
Nagsiling sila kay Jesus, “Ang amon amay amo si Abraham.” Nagsiling si Jesus, “Kon matuod nga mga kaliwat kamo ni Abraham, kuntani ginahimo ninyo ang maayo pareho sang maayo pareho sang iya mga ginhimo.
Pero ang inyo ginahimo, ginatinguhaan ninyo nga patyon ako, bisan nagsugid man lang ako sa inyo sang kamatuoran nga akon nabatian halin sa Dios. Si Abraham wala gid nakahimo pareho sining inyo ginahimo.
Ang inyo ginahimo pareho man sa ginahimo sang inyo amay.” Nagsiling sila, “Indi kami mga anak sa guwa.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kon matuod nga ang Dios amo ang inyo Amay, kuntani palanggaon ninyo ako, kay ako naghalin sa Dios. Wala ako nagkadto diri sa kalibutan sa akon lang luyag, kundi siya amo ang nagpadala sa akon.
Indi ninyo maintiendihan ang akon mga ginahambal tungod kay indi kamo makaagwanta sa pagpamati sang akon pulong.
Ang yawa amo ang inyo amay kag kon ano ang gusto sang inyo amay amo man ang inyo gusto nga himuon. Manugpatay siya sang tawo halin pa sang una. Wala sing pulos para sa iya ang kamatuoran tungod kay wala gid sing kamatuoran sa iya. Batasan niya ang magbutig, tungod kay butigon siya kag siya amo ang ginahalinan sang tanan nga kabutigan.
Pero ako, ang kamatuoran amo ang akon ginasugid sa inyo, kag amo ina nga indi kamo magpati sa akon.
Sin-o bala sa inyo ang makapamatuod nga nakahimo ako sang sala? Wala gid! Wala gid! Ti ngaa indi kamo magpati sa akon kon nagasugid ako sang kamatuoran?
Ang mga tawo nga iya sang Dios nagapati sa pulong sang Dios. Pero tungod kay kamo indi iya sang Dios, amo ina nga indi kamo magpati sa akon.”
Nagsabat kay Jesus ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio, “Matuod gali ang amon ginasiling nga ikaw isa ka Samariahanon,
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Wala ako ginagamhan sang demonyo. Ginapadunggan ko lang ang akon Amay, pero kamo, ginapakahuy-an ninyo ako.
Wala ako nagahandom sang kadungganan para sa akon kaugalingon. Ang Amay amo ang nagahandom nga padunggan ako sang mga tawo nga padunggan ako sang mga tawo , kag siya ang makahukom kon matuod ang akon ginasugid kon matuod ang akon ginasugid .
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang mga nagatuman sang akon mga pagpanudlo indi na mapatay hasta san-o.”
Nagsiling sa iya ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio, “Sigurado na gid kami nga ginagamhan ka sang demonyo. Bisan si Abraham napatay, kag ang mga propeta nagkalamatay man. Pero nagasiling ka nga ang nagatuman sang imo mga pagpanudlo indi na gid mapatay hasta san-o.
Ano, mas maayo ka pa bala kay Abraham? Napatay gani siya. Kag ang mga propeta nagkalamatay man. Ngaa, sin-o ka gid haw?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Kon ako lang gid ang magpadungog sa akon kaugalingon, wala ini sing pulos. Pero ang akon Amay amo gid ang nagapadungog sa akon. Siya amo ang inyo ginasiling nga inyo Dios.
Ugaling wala ninyo siya makilala. Pero ako ya, kilala ko siya. Karon, kon magsiling ako nga wala ako makakilala sa iya, magaguwa nga butigon ako pareho sa inyo. Pero ang matuod, kilala ko gid siya kag ginatuman ko ang iya pulong.
Nalipay gid ang inyo amay nga si Abraham nga makita niya ang akon tion. Kag nakita niya gani kag nalipay gid siya.”
Nagsiling ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio sa iya, “Ti, paano ang imo pagkakita kay Abraham nga wala pa gani 50 ang imo edad?”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga sang wala pa matawo si Abraham, ara na ako nga daan.”
Tungod sa sining ginhambal ni Jesus nagpulot sila sing bato para habuyon siya. Pero nagpanago
Samtang nagalakat sila ni Jesus, may nakita sila nga tawo nga bulag halin pa sang iya pagkatawo.
Karon ginpamangkot si Jesus sang iya mga sumulunod, “Manunudlo, kay sin-o bala sala nga natawo siya nga bulag? Iya bala sala ukon sala sang iya mga ginikanan?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Indi tungod sang iya sala ukon sang sala sang iya mga ginikanan, kundi nabulag siya para makita sang mga tawo ang gahom sang Dios paagi sa pag-ayo paagi sa pag-ayo sa iya.
Dapat himuon ta ang ginapahimo sang Dios nga Dios nga nagpadala sa akon samtang adlaw pa. Kay magaabot ang gab-i nga indi ta na mahimo ang iya ginapahimo.
Samtang ari pa ako sa kalibutan ako ang suga nga nagahatag sang kasanag sa mga tawo.”
Pagkahambal niya sadto nagdupla siya dayon sa duta. Ginmiksla niya ang dupla sa duta kag ginlamhit niya ini sa mga mata sang bulag.
Nagsiling siya dayon sa bulag, “Kadto ka sa palaligusan sa Siloam kag magpanghilam-os didto.” (Ang buot silingon sang Siloam “Ginpadala.”) Gani nagkadto ang bulag sa Siloam kag nagpanghilam-os. Pagkatapos nagbalik siya dayon nga nakakita na.
Nagsiling ang iya mga kasilingan kag ang mga tawo nga nakakita anay sa iya nga nagapakilimos, “Indi bala nga ang ina nga tawo amo anay ang nagasagi pungko nga nagapakilimos?”
Nagsiling ang iban, “Amo ina siya!” Pero may iban nga nagsiling, “Indi ina siya! Kundi pareho lang sila sing hitsura.” Gani ang tawo mismo nagsiling, “Ako gid ang tawo nga inyo ginasiling.”
Gani ginpamangkot nila siya, “Paano bala nga makakita ka na subong?”
Nagsiling siya, “Ang tawo nga ginatawag nga si Jesus naghimo sang lunang.
Ginpamangkot nila siya kon diin na ang tawo nga nag-ayo sa iya. Nagsiling siya, “Ambot, wala ako kahibalo.”
Gindala nila dayon sa mga Pariseo ang ato nga tawo, nga sadto anay bulag.
Adlaw sadto nga Inugpahuway sang pagmiksla ni Jesus sang duta kag sang pag-ayo niya sa mata sang tawo nga bulag.
Gani ginpamangkot man siya sang mga Pariseo kon paano nga makakita na siya. Kag ginsugiran niya sila, “Ginlamhitan ni Jesus sing lunang ang akon mga mata kag pagkatapos nagpanghilam-os ako, kag subong makakita na ako.”
May mga Pariseo nga nagsiling, “Ang tawo nga naghimo sini indi halin sa Dios, tungod kay wala siya nagatuman sang kasuguan parte sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.” Pero nagsiling ang iban, “Kon siya tawo nga makasasala indi siya makahimo sang mga milagro nga pareho sini.” Gani nagbinahin-bahin sila.
Nagpamangkot pa gid liwat ang mga Pariseo sa tawo nga sadto anay bulag, “Siling mo gin-ayo ka niya, ti karon, ano ang masiling mo parte sa iya?” Nagsiling siya, “Kon sa akon lang, isa siya ka propeta.”
Pero indi magpati ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio nga bulag siya anay kag subong makakita na, gani ginpatawag nila ang iya mga ginikanan.
Pagkatapos ginpamangkot nila sila, “Inyo bala anak ini? Matuod gid man bala nga natawo siya nga bulag? Ngaa makakita na siya subong?”
Nagsabat ang iya mga ginikanan, “Kilala namon nga siya amon anak kag matuod nga natawo siya nga bulag.
Pero kon paano nga makakita na siya kag kon sin-o ang nag-ayo sang iya mga mata, ina ang wala namon mahibalui. Pamangkuta ninyo siya kay may buot naman na siya kag sarang makasabat para sa iya kaugalingon.”
Amo sadto ang sabat sang iya mga ginikanan tungod kay nahadlok sila sa mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio. Kay ang ini nga mga lider lider nagsugtanay na nga daan nga ang bisan sin-o nga magkilala kay Jesus nga siya amo ang Cristo indi na nila pagpasudlon sa ila simbahan.
Amo gani nga ang iya mga ginikanan nagsiling, “Pamangkuta ninyo siya kay may buot naman na siya.”
Gani gintawag nila liwat ang tawo nga sadto anay bulag kag ginsilingan, “Padunggi ang Dios paagi sa pagsugid sang matuod parte sadto nga tawo paagi sa pagsugid sang matuod parte sadto nga tawo . Kon sa amon lang, nahibaluan namon nga siya makasasala.”
Nagsabat ang tawo, “Wala ako kahibalo kon makasasala siya ukon indi. Basta nahibaluan ko nga sang una bulag ako pero subong makakita na.”
Nagpamangkot naman sila, “Ano bala ang iya ginhimo sa imo? Paano niya gin-ayo ang imo mga mata?”
Nagsabat siya, “Indi bala nga ginsugiran ko na kamo? Pero indi kamo magpati. Ti ngaa nagapamangkot pa kamo liwat? Ano, gusto man bala ninyo nga mangin iya mga sumulunod?”
Gani nangakig sila kag ginbuyayaw nila siya kag ginsilingan, “Ikaw iya nga sumulunod, pero kami mga sumulunod ni Moises.
Nahibaluan namon nga nagpakighambal ang Dios kay Moises sang una, pero kon parte sa tawo nga ina, wala gani kami kahibalo kon diin siya naghalin!”
Nagsabat dayon ang tawo, “Katingalahan! Siya ang nag-ayo sa akon, pagkatapos nagasiling kamo nga wala kamo kahibalo kon sa diin siya naghalin.
Nahibaluan ta nga wala nagasabat ang Dios sa mga makasasala. Pero ginasabat niya ang mga tawo nga nagatahod sa iya kag nagatuman sang iya kabubut-on.
Halin sang una wala pa gid kita makabati nga may tawo nga nag-ayo sang mata sang isa ka tawo nga bulag halin sang iya pagkatawo.
Kon indi siya naghalin sa Dios, indi siya kuntani makahimo sing pareho sini.”
Nagsabat ang mga lider sang mga Judio, “Natawo ka kag nagdako sa sala, kag karon tudluan mo pa kami?” Kag ginsilingan nila siya nga indi na siya pagtugutan nga magsulod sa ila mga simbahan sa ila mga simbahan .
Karon, nabalitaan ni Jesus nga indi na nila pagpasudlon sa ila mga simbahan sa ila mga simbahan ang tawo nga sadto anay bulag. Gani ginpangita niya ang tawo. Pagkakita niya sa iya ginpamangkot niya siya, “Nagatuo ka bala sa Anak sang Tawo?”
Nagsabat siya, “Sir, sugiri man ako kon sin-o siya para makatuo ako sa iya!”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Nakita mo na siya, kay siya mismo ang nagapakighambal sa imo subong.”
Nagsiling dayon ang tawo, “Ginoo, nagatuo ako sa imo!” Kag nagluhod siya dayon kag nagsimba kay Jesus.
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan para hukman ang mga tawo. Ang mga nagakilala nga sila nagakilala nga sila bulag sa kamatuoran sa kamatuoran ayuhon ko para makakita sila. Kag ang mga nagasiling nga sila kuno nagasiling nga sila kuno indi bulag, magaguwa nga sila amo ang sila amo ang bulag.”
Karon, may mga Pariseo didto nga malapit sa iya nga nakabati sang iya ginhambal. Kag nagpamangkot sila, “Ang buot mo silingon pati kami mga bulag man?”
Ginsabat sila ni Jesus, “Kon ginabaton ninyo nga ginabaton ninyo nga bulag kamo sa kamatuoran sa kamatuoran , wala kamo kuntani sing sala. Pero tungod kay nagasiling kamo nga indi kamo bulag, ini nagakahulugan lang nga ini nagakahulugan lang nga may sala pa gihapon kamo.”
“Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga kon ang tawo nagasulod sa toril sang mga karnero pero wala nagaagi sa puwertahan kundi nagataklas sa kudal, ina nga tawo kawatan kag tulisan.
Pero ang tawo nga nagasulod paagi sa puwertahan amo ang manugbantay sang mga karnero.
Ginapasulod siya sang bantay sa puwertahan kag ang iya tingog kilala sang mga karnero. Ginatawag niya ang iya mga karnero sa ila mga ngalan, kag ginadala niya dayon sila paguwa.
Kon makaguwa na sila, nagauna siya sa ila kag ang iya mga karnero nagasunod sa iya tungod kay kilala nila ang iya tingog.
Indi magsunod ang mga karnero sa tawo nga indi nila kilala, kundi magapalagyo gani sila tungod kay wala sila nakakilala sang iya tingog.”
Ginsugid sa ila ni Jesus ini nga paanggid, pero wala gid sila nakaintiendi kon ano ang buot silingon sini.
Gani nagsiling liwat si Jesus, “Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ako amo ang puwertahan sang mga karnero.
May mga nauna sa akon nga mga manunudlo nga ang ila kahalimbawa pareho sa mga manunudlo nga ang ila kahalimbawa pareho sa mga kawatan kag mga tulisan. Pero ang akon mga karnero wala nagpati sa ila.
Ako amo ang puwertahan. Ang nagasulod paagi sa akon maluwas. Pareho siya sa karnero nga nagasulod kag nagaguwa, kag makakita siya sing halalbon.
Ang katuyuan sang kawatan amo ang pagpangawat, ang pagpatay kag ang pagpangguba. Pero ako ya nagkadto diri sa kalibutan para mahatagan ko ang mga tawo sing kabuhi kag ini wala gid sing kulang.
“Ako amo ang maayo nga manugbantay sang mga karnero. Ang maayo nga manugbantay desidido nga maghatag sang iya kabuhi para sa iya mga karnero.
Indi siya pareho sa tawo nga ginasuhulan lang nga magbantay. Kay ang tawo nga ginasuhulan lang nagapalagyo kon makita na niya nga nagaabot ang wolf kag bayaan lang niya ang mga karnero. Gani nagalalapta ang mga karnero kag ang iban sa ila tukbon.
Ang sinuhulan nagapalagyo, tungod kay sinuhulan man lang siya kag baliwala lang sa iya kon ano ang matabo sa mga karnero.
May iban pa man ako nga mga karnero nga wala diri sa inyo grupo nga mga Judio nga mga Judio . Dapat pasudlon ko man sila. Magapamati man sila sa akon, kag ang tanan nga nagapamati sa akon mangin isa lang ka grupo nga may isa ka manugbantay.
“Ginapalangga ako sang Amay tungod kay ginahatag ko ang akon kabuhi para sa ila para sa ila , kag pagkatapos mabuhi man ako liwat.
Wala sing may makapatay sa akon kon indi ko ini pag-itugot. Pero kabubut-on ko nga ginahatag ang akon kabuhi. May awtoridad ako sa paghatag sini, kag may awtoridad man ako sa pagbawi sini. Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Amay sa akon.”
Tungod sa ginhambal nga ato ni Jesus nagbinahin-bahin liwat ang mga Judio.
Madamo sa ila ang nagsiling, “Ang tawo nga ini ginagamhan sang demonyo kag buang-buang. Ngaa nagasagi kamo pamati sa iya?”
Pero nagsiling ang iban, “Ang tawo nga ginagamhan sang demonyo indi makatudlo sing pareho sina. Kag isa pa, paano makapaayo ang isa ka tawo sang bulag kon ginagamhan siya sang demonyo?”
Karon, nag-abot ang tiyempo sa pagsaulog sa Jerusalem sang Piesta sang Pagdedikar sang Templo. Tigtulugnaw sadto,
kag nagalakat-lakat si Jesus didto sa templo sa ginatawag nga Balkon ni Solomon.
Nagtilipon ang mga Judio sa iya kag nagsiling sila, “Ngaa ginatago-tago mo pa sa amon kon sin-o gid ikaw? Sugiri kami sing deretso kon ikaw amo ang Cristo.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ginsugiran ko na kamo kon sin-o gid ako pero indi kamo magpati sa akon. Ang mga milagro nga ginahimo ko sa awtoridad nga halin sa akon Amay nagapamatuod man kon sin-o gid ako.
Pero indi kamo magpati sa akon tungod kay indi kamo kaupod sa akon mga karnero.
Ang akon mga karnero nagapamati sa akon. Kilala ko sila kag nagasunod sila sa akon.
Ginahatagan ko sila sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan, kag indi gid sila mawala. Wala gid sing may makaagaw sa ila sa akon kamot.
Ginhatag sila sa akon sang akon Amay nga gamhanan sa tanan, kag wala gid sing may makaagaw sa ila sa kamot sang Amay.
Ako kag ang Amay isa lang.”
Pagkabati sadto sang Pagkabati sadto sang mga Judio nagpulot liwat sila sang mga bato para batuhon siya.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Madamo ang ginhimo ko nga maayo nga inyo mismo nakita. Kag ginpahimo ini sa akon sang Amay. Sa diin bala sa sining akon mga ginpanghimo ang nangin kabangdanan nga inyo ako batuhon?”
Ginsabat siya sang mga Judio, “Indi kami magbato sa imo tungod sang imo maayo nga mga hinimuan, kundi batuhon ka namon tungod sa imo pag-insulto sa Dios sa Dios ! Kay ikaw tawo man lang, pero nagasiling ka nga ikaw Dios.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi bala nasulat sa inyo Kasuguan nga nagsiling ang Dios nga kamo mga dios
Kon wala ako nagahimo sang ginapahimo sang Amay sa akon, indi dapat nga magpati kamo sa akon.
Pero kon ginahimo ko ang ginapahimo sang Amay sa akon, bisan indi ninyo gusto nga magpati sa akon mga ginasiling mga ginasiling , dapat patihan ninyo ang akon mga hinimuan, para mahibaluan gid ninyo nga ang Amay ari sa akon kag ako ara sa iya.”
Gintinguhaan nila liwat nga dakpon si Jesus, pero nakalikaw siya sa ila.
Nagtabok liwat si Jesus sa Suba sang Suba sang Jordan kag nagkadto sa lugar nga sa diin nagpangbautiso si Juan. Kag didto siya dayon nagtiner.
Madamo nga tawo ang nagpalapit sa iya kag nagsiling, “Wala matuod nakahimo sing mga milagro si Juan, pero ang tanan nga iya ginhambal parte sa sini nga tawo matuod.”
Gani madamo sa mga tawo didto ang nagtuo kay Jesus.
May isa ka tawo nga nagamasakit nga ang iya ngalan si Lazarus. Nagaestar siya sa Betania, ang baryo nga ginaestaran man sang iya mga utod nga si Maria kag si Marta.
Si Maria nga ini amo ang nagbubo sang pahamot sa tiil sang Ginoo kag iya dayon ginpahiran sang iya buhok. Ang iya utod nga si Lazarus nagamasakit.
Gani nagpadala ang mag-utod nga babayi sang balita kay Jesus nga ang iya pinalangga nga amigo nagamasakit.
Pagkabati ni Jesus nga si Lazarus nagamasakit, nagsiling siya, “Ini nga masakit indi magaresulta sang kamatayon. Ang katuyuan nga nagamasakit siya kay para mapadunggan ang Dios tungod sa iya gahom kag para ako nga Anak sang Dios mapadunggan man.”
Palangga ni Jesus si Marta, si Maria kag si Lazarus.
Pero ginpaligad pa niya ang duha ka adlaw pagkatapos nga iya nabalitaan nga si Lazarus nagamasakit.
Dayon, nagsiling siya sa iya mga sumulunod, “Dali kamo, mabalik na kita sa Judea.”
Nagsabat ang iya mga sumulunod, “Manunudlo, indi bala nga pila pa lang ka adlaw nga batuhon ka kuntani didto sang mga Judio? Kag karon mabalik ka pa didto?”
Nagsiling si Jesus, “Indi bala nga may dose ka oras kon adlaw? Gani kon maglakat ang tawo kon adlaw indi siya makasandad, tungod kay masanag pa.
Pero kon maglakat siya kon gab-i makasandad siya kay madulom.”
Pagkatapos nagsiling pa gid si Jesus, “Ang aton amigo nga si Lazarus nagakatulog. Pero kadtuan ko siya kag pukawon.”
Nagsabat ang iya mga sumulunod, “Ginoo, kon nagakatulog siya, magaayo pa siya.”
Abi nila nagakatulog lang matuod si Lazarus, pero ang buot silingon ni Jesus nga patay na si Lazarus.
Gani ginsilingan sila ni Jesus sing maathag, “Patay na si Lazarus.
Pero nagapasalamat ako nga wala ako didto kay para ini sa inyo kaayuhan, tungod kay may himuon ako tungod kay may himuon ako para magdugang pa gid ang inyo pagtuo sa akon sa akon . Dali, kadtuan ta siya.”
Karon, si Tomas nga ginatawag nga si Kapid nagsiling sa iya mga kaupod, “Ti, maupod na lang kita bisan kon patyon kita upod sa iya.”
Sang pag-abot ni Jesus sa Betania sa Betania , nabalitaan niya nga apat na ka adlaw sa lulubngan si Lazarus.
Ang Betania mga tatlo lang ka kilometro halin sa Jerusalem.
Gani madamo nga Judio nga taga-Jerusalem nga taga-Jerusalem ang nagkadto didto sa paglipay kay Marta kag kay Maria sa pagkapatay sang ila utod.
Pagkabati ni Marta nga nagapadulong si Jesus, nagguwa siya sa pagsugata sa iya, pero si Maria nagpabilin sa balay.
Pag-abot ni Marta kay Jesus, nagsiling siya, “Ginoo, kon diri ka lang, wala kuntani napatay ang akon utod.
Pero nahibaluan ko nga bisan subong magahatag ang Dios sa imo sang bisan ano nga imo pangayuon sa iya.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Mabanhaw ang imo utod.”
Nagsabat si Marta, “Nahibaluan ko nga mabanhaw siya sa katapusan nga adlaw kon banhawon na ang mga patay.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ako ang nagabanhaw sang mga patay, kag ako man ang nagahatag sang kabuhi. Ang nagatuo sa akon, bisan mapatay pa siya, mabuhi siya liwat.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagakabuhi kag nagatuo sa akon indi na mapatay hasta san-o. Ti, nagapati ka bala sini?”
Nagsabat si Marta, “Huo, Ginoo! Nagapati gid ako nga ikaw amo ang Cristo, ang Anak sang Dios nga amon ginahulat nga amon ginahulat nga magaabot diri sa kalibutan.”
Pagkahambal sadto ni Marta, nagbalik siya sa ila balay kag gintawag niya ang iya utod nga si Maria kag ginhutikan, “Ari na ang Manunudlo kag ginapatawag ka niya.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Maria, nagtindog siya kag nagdali-dali guwa kag nagkadto didto kay Jesus.
(Wala pa makasulod si Jesus sa banwa sang Betania. Didto pa lang siya sa lugar nga sa diin ginsugata siya ni Marta.)
Pagkakita sang mga Judio, nga kaupod ni Maria sa balay nga nagaunong sa iya, nga nagtindog siya kag magdali-dali guwa, ginsunod nila siya kay abi nila makadto siya sa lulubngan para didto maghibi.
Pag-abot ni Maria didto kay Jesus, nagluhod siya kag nagsiling, “Ginoo, kon diri ka lang, wala kuntani napatay ang akon utod.”
Pagkakita ni Jesus nga nagahibi si Maria kag pati ang iya mga kaupod nga mga Judio, natandog gid ang iya tagipusuon.
Nagpamangkot siya dayon sa ila, “Sa diin ninyo siya ginlubong?” Nagsabat sila, “Dali Ginoo, itudlo namon sa imo.”
Naghibi si Jesus.
Gani nagsiling ang mga Judio, “Kita ninyo kon daw ano ang iya pagpalangga kay Lazarus!”
Pero nagsiling ang iban, “Indi bala nga gin-ayo niya ang mga mata sang bulag? Ti ngaa wala niya mapunggi ang kamatayon ni Lazarus?”
Natandog liwat ang tagipusuon ni Jesus. Kag nagkadto siya dayon didto sa ginlubngan kay Lazarus. Isa ini ka kuweba nga natakpan sang isa ka bato.
Pag-abot nila didto, Pag-abot nila didto, nagsiling si Jesus, “Kuhaa ninyo ang bato.” Pero nagsiling si Marta nga utod sang napatay, “Ginoo, mabaho na siya subong, kay apat na ka adlaw nga siya ginlubong!”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Indi bala nga nagsiling ako sa imo nga kon magtuo ka, makita mo ang gahom sang Dios?”
Gani ginkuha nila ang bato. Nagtangla si Jesus sa langit kag nagsiling, “Amay, nagapasalamat ako sa imo tungod kay ginpamatian mo ako.
Nahibaluan ko nga permi mo ako ginapamatian, pero nagasiling ako sing pareho sini para sa mga tawo nga diri subong sa akon palibot, para magpati sila nga ikaw amo ang nagpadala sa akon.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sini, nagsinggit siya, “Lazarus, guwa ka!”
Kag nagguwa matuod ang patay nga ang iya kamot kag tiil may nagasambod pa nga mga tela nga linen, kag ang iya guya naputos man sang panyo. Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Hubari ninyo siya kag palakta.”
Madamo sa mga Judio nga nagbisita sa ila ni Maria ang nagtuo kay Jesus pagkakita nila sa iya ginhimo.
Pero ang iban sa ila nagkadto sa mga Pariseo kag nagsugid sang ginhimo ni Jesus.
Gani gintawag sang mga Pariseo kag sang mga manugdumala nga mga pari ang tanan nga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio. Kag sang nagatilipon na sila, nagsiling sila, “Ano bala ang aton himuon? Madamo nga milagro ang ginahimo sang sini nga tawo.
Kon pabay-an ta lang siya, ang tanan magatuo na sa iya nga siya amo ang hari sang Israel nga siya amo ang hari sang Israel . Kag kon amo ini ang matabo, sulungon kita sang mga Romanhon kag gub-on nila ang aton templo kag ang aton bilog nga nasyon!”
Pero ang isa sa mga kaupod nila nga si Caifas, nga pangulo nga pari sadto nga tuig, nagsiling, “Wala gid kamo sing nahibaluan!
Wala bala ninyo mahunahunai nga mas maayo pa nga isa lang ka tawo ang mapatay para sa aton nasyon kaysa ang bilog nga nasyon ang madula?”
Wala niya ato ginhambal nga iya-iya lang, kundi bilang pangulo nga pari sadto nga tuig, naghambal ang Dios paagi sa iya nga kinahanglan nga mapatay si Jesus para sa mga Judio.
Kag indi lang para sa sina nga katawhan, kundi para man sa tanan nga anak sang Dios nga naglalapta sa iban nga mga lugar, para matipon sila kag mangin isa sila tanan.
Halin sadto nga adlaw nagplano ang mga lider sang mga Judio nga patyon si Jesus.
Gani wala na nagsagad
Karon, malapit na lang ang piesta sang mga Judio nga ginatawag Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel. Gani madamo nga tawo ang nagpa-Jerusalem para sa indi pa mag-abot ang piesta makapakatinlo sila sang ila kaugalingon suno sa pagsulundan sang ila relihiyon suno sa pagsulundan sang ila relihiyon .
Ginpangita nila si Jesus, pero wala nila makita. Gani samtang nagatindog sila didto sa templo, nagpinamangkutanay sila, “Ano bala sa banta ninyo? Indi gid siya siguro magpamiesta, di bala?”
Sadto gali nga tion nagsugo na nga daan ang mga manugdumala nga mga pari kag ang mga Pariseo nga ang bisan sin-o nga makahibalo kon diin si Jesus dapat magsugid sa ila para madakop nila siya.
Karon, sang anom na lang ka adlaw bag-o mag-abot ang piesta, nagkadto si Jesus sa Betania, sa lugar ni Lazarus nga iya ginbanhaw.
Nagpreparar sila sing panyapon para kay Jesus. Si Lazarus isa sa mga kaupod ni Jesus nga nagakaon sa lamisa. Si Marta amo ang nagaserbi.
Si Maria iya nagkuha sing mga tunga sa litro nga malahalon nga pahamot. Puro ini nga pahamot nga halin sa tanom nga pahamot nga halin sa tanom nga nardo. Ginbubo niya ini sa tiil ni Jesus. Pagkatapos ginpahiran niya sang iya buhok. Kag napuno ang bilog nga balay sang kahamot sang sadto nga pahamot.
Pero ang isa sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus nga si Judas Iscariote,
“Ang bili sang sina nga pahamot mga isa gid ka tuig nga suweldo sang isa ka tawo. Ngaa wala ina pag-ibaligya kag ang bili ipanghatag sa mga imol?”
Ginsiling niya ini, indi tungod kay naluoy siya sa mga imol, kundi tungod kay kawatan siya. Siya amo ang nagauyat sang ila kuwarta kag permi niya ini ginakuhaan.
Pero nagsiling si Jesus, “Pabay-i lang siya! Ipatago lang sa iya ang nabilin nga pahamot nga pahamot para itigana sa akon lubong.
Ang mga imol permi ninyo makaupod, pero ako indi ninyo permi makaupod.”
Madamo nga Judio ang nakabalita nga didto si Jesus sa Betania, gani nagkadto sila didto. Nagkadto sila indi lang tungod kay Jesus, kundi gusto man nila nga makita si Lazarus nga iya ginbanhaw.
Gani ginplano sang mga manugdumala nga mga pari nga patyon man si Lazarus,
kay tungod sa iya, madamo na nga mga Judio ang nagbiya sa ila kag nagtuo kay Jesus.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, nabalitaan sang madamo nga tawo nga nag-alabot sa pagpamiesta nga si Jesus nagapakadto na sa Jerusalem.
“Ginapakamaayo niya ang Hari sang Israel!”
Nakakita si Jesus sang isa ka bataon pa nga donkey kag amo ato ang iya ginsakyan. Sa iya ginhimo nga ato natuman ang Kasulatan nga nagasiling,
“Kamo nga mga pumuluyo sang Zion,
Sadto nga tiyempo, ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus wala pa makaintiendi kon ano ang kahulugan sang mga nagakalatabo nga ato. Pero pagkatapos nga si Jesus nakabalik na sa langit, amo pa lang nila napinsaran nga ang ginhimo sang sadto nga mga tawo amo gid gali ang nakasulat sa Kasulatan.
Madamo nga tawo ang nakakita sang pagtawag kag pagbanhaw ni Jesus kay Lazarus halin sa iya lulubngan. Kag ini nga mga tawo nagpamalita sa natabo.
Gani madamo nga tawo ang nagsugata kay Jesus, tungod kay nabalitaan nila ato nga milagro nga iya ginhimo.
Gani naghambalanay ang mga Pariseo, “Ti tan-awa ninyo, nagasunod na sa iya ang tanan nga tawo. Wala na gid kita sing may mahimo!”
May mga Griego man nga nag-alabot sa Jerusalem sa Jerusalem para magpamiesta kag magsimba sa Dios.
Nagkadto sila kay Felipe nga taga-Betsaida nga sakop sang Galilea. Nagpangabay ang mga Griego, “Sir, gusto namon kuntani nga magpakigkita kay Jesus.”
Ginsugiran ni Felipe si Andres kag duha sila ang nagkadto kay Jesus para sugiran siya.
Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa ila, “Karon nag-abot na ang tion nga padunggan ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo, makita na ang akon gahom.
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga kon ang isa ka binhi indi pag-ilubong sa duta kag mapatay, ina magapabilin gid lang nga isa ka binhi. Pero kon ilubong kag ilubong kag mapatay, magatubo ini kag magatubo ini kag magapamunga sing madamo.
Ang tawo nga sobra ang iya paghigugma sa iya kabuhi madula niya ini, pero ang tawo nga wala nagakanugon sang iya kabuhi sa sini nga kalibutan tungod sa akon tungod sa akon makaangkon sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Ang bisan sin-o nga gusto mag-alagad sa akon kinahanglan magsunod sa akon, para kon diin ako didto man ang akon suluguon. Ang tawo nga nagaalagad sa akon padunggan sang akon Amay.”
Nagsiling pa si Jesus, Nagsiling pa si Jesus, “Karon nagalibog ang akon hunahuna. Ano bala ang akon isiling? Ano, masiling bala ako sa Amay nga luwason na lang niya ako sa sini nga tion? Pero amo ini ang katuyuan sang akon pagkadto diri, nga mag-antos sang mga kasakit sa sini nga tion.”
Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa Amay Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa Amay , “Amay, ipakita ang imo gahom sa mga tawo.” May naghambal dayon halin sa langit, “Ginpakita ko na paagi sa imo paagi sa imo , kag ipakita ko pa liwat.”
Ang mga tawo nga nagtalambong didto nakabati sang tingog. Nagsiling sila, “Nagapangdaguob!” Pero nagsiling ang iban, “Nagapakighambal sa iya ang anghel!”
Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Ginpabati ato sang Dios indi para sa akon kundi para sa inyo.
Halin subong sentensyahan na niya ang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan. Kag mapierdi na niya si Satanas nga amo si Satanas nga amo ang nagagahom sa sini nga kalibutan.
Kag kon ibayaw na gani ako halin sa duta, papalapiton ko ang tanan nga tawo sa akon.”
(Sa iya paghambal sadto, ginsugid niya kon ano nga klase sang kamatayon ang iya pagaantuson.)
Nagsabat ang mga tawo sa iya, “Suno sa amon Kasuguan magakabuhi ang Cristo hasta san-o. Gani ngaa bala nagasiling ka nga ang Anak sang Tawo kinahanglan nga mapatay? Sin-o gid ina nga Anak sang Tawo ang imo ginasiling?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Madali na lang madula ang suga sa tunga ninyo. Gani magkabuhi kamo sa sini nga suga samtang diri pa, kay basi bala kon maabtan kamo sang kadulom. Tungod kay ang nagalakat sa kadulom indi makahibalo kon diin siya nagapadulong.
Pagkatapos niya hambal sadto naglakat siya kag nagpanago sa ila.
Bisan nakita na gid nila ang madamo nga milagro nga ginpanghimo ni Jesus, wala pa gihapon sila nagtuo sa iya.
Sin-o bala sa mga ginpakitaan mo sang imo gahom ang nagtuo?”
Ginhambal pa ni Isaias nga indi sila magtuo tungod nga:
kay basi pa kon magbalik sila sa Dios kag ayuhon niya sila.”
Ginhambal ato ni Isaias tungod kay nakita niya ang gahom ni Jesus kag nagsugid siya parte sa iya.
Pero bisan amo sina, madamo nga lider sang mga Judio sang mga Judio ang nagtuo kay Jesus. Pero wala lang sila nagpabutyag sang ila pagtuo tungod kay nahadlok sila nga indi na sila pagpasudlon sang mga Pariseo sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio.
Kay ginpasulabi nila ang pagdayaw sang mga tawo sang sa pagdayaw sang Dios.
Naghambal sing mabaskog si Jesus, “Kon ang tawo magtuo sa akon, indi lang siya nagatuo sa akon kundi nagatuo man siya sa nagpadala sa akon.
Ang nakakita sa akon nakakita man sa nagpadala sa akon.
Nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan sa pagpasanag sa hunahuna sang mga tawo, para ang bisan sin-o nga magatuo sa akon indi magapabilin sa kadulom.
Kon may ara nga nakabati sang akon mga pagpanudlo pero wala nagatuman, indi ako ang magasentensya sa iya nga silutan nga silutan . Kay wala ako nagkadto diri sa kalibutan para sentensyahan ang mga tawo kundi para luwason.
May ara nga magasentensya sa mga tawo nga nagasikway sa akon kag wala nagabaton sa akon mga pagpanudlo; ang mga pulong nga akon gintudlo amo ang magasentensya sa ila sa katapusan nga adlaw!
Kay ang akon mga pagpanudlo indi halin sa akon kundi halin sa Amay nga nagpadala sa akon. Siya amo ang nagsugo sa akon kon ano ang akon itudlo.
Kag nahibaluan ko nga ang iya mga pagpanudlo, nga iya ginsiling sa akon nga ipanudlo, nagahatag sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Gani ginasugid ko sa inyo ang tanan nga ginapasugid sang Amay.”
Sa wala pa mag-abot ang adlaw sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel, nahibaluan na nga daan ni Jesus nga nag-abot na ang tion nga mahalin na siya sa sini nga kalibutan kag mabalik sa Amay. Palangga gid niya ang iya mga sumulunod diri sa kalibutan, kag hasta sa katapusan ginpakita niya ang iya pagpalangga.
Sang gab-i na Sang gab-i na , nagpanyapon si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod. Karon, napasulod na nga daan sang yawa sa hunahuna ni Judas nga anak ni Simon Iscariote
Nahibaluan ni Jesus nga ang tanan nga gahom nga gahom ginhatag na sang Amay sa iya. Nahibaluan man niya nga sa Dios siya naghalin kag sa Dios man siya mabalik.
Samtang sa lamisa pa ang iya mga sumulunod, nagtindog siya kag nag-uba sang iya pangguwa nga bayo. Pagkatapos nagkuha siya sang tuwalya kag ginwagkos niya ini sa iya hawak.
Ginbubuan dayon niya sang tubig ang labador kag ginpanghugasan niya ang mga tiil sang iya mga sumulunod. Ang kada mahugasan niya nga tiil, ginapahiran dayon niya sang tuwalya nga iya ginwagkos sa iya hawak.
Pag-abot niya kay Simon Pedro, nagsiling si Simon sa iya, “Ginoo, hugasan mo bala ang akon mga tiil?”
Ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Karon indi mo pa maintiendihan kon ano ang kahulugan sining akon ginahimo, pero maintiendihan mo man ini sa ulihi.”
Nagsiling si Pedro, “Indi matabo hasta san-o nga ikaw ang maghugas sang akon mga tiil.” Pero nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Ti kon indi ka magpahugas sang imo mga tiil sa akon, indi ka na akon kaupod.”
Gani nagsiling si Simon Pedro, “ Ti kon amo sina Ti kon amo sina Ginoo, indi lang ang akon mga tiil ang imo hugasan, kundi pati man ang akon mga kamot kag ang akon ulo.”
Pero nagsiling si Jesus, “Ang nakapaligo, limpyo na ang iya bilog nga lawas, kag indi na kinahanglan nga hugasan pa luwas lamang sa iya mga tiil. Limpyo na kamo, pero indi tanan kamo.”
(Nagsiling siya nga indi limpyo ang tanan tungod kay nahibaluan niya kon sin-o ang magatraidor sa iya.)
Sang nahugasan na ni Jesus ang ila mga tiil, ginsuksok niya liwat ang iya pangguwa nga bayo kag nagbalik sa lamisa. Nagpamangkot dayon siya sa ila, “Ti, naintiendihan bala ninyo kon ano ang kahulugan sang akon ginhimo sa inyo?
Ginatawag ninyo ako nga Manunudlo kag Ginoo, kag husto ina, kay ako gid man ang inyo Manunudlo kag Ginoo.
Ti kon ako gani nga inyo Ginoo kag Manunudlo naghugas sang inyo mga tiil, dapat man nga maghinugasay kamo sang inyo mga tiil.
Ginhimo ko ini bilang halimbawa para sundon ninyo. Gani himuon man ninyo sa isa kag isa ining akon ginhimo sa inyo.
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga wala sing ulipon nga labaw pa sa iya amo, kag wala sing sinugo nga labaw pa sa nagsugo sa iya.
Karon nga nahibaluan na ninyo ini nga mga butang, bulahan kamo kon inyo ini himuon.
“Wala ako nagasiling nga bulahan kamo tanan, kay kilala ko ang akon mga ginpili. Pero kinahanglan nga matuman ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan nga ‘ang tawo nga nagasalo sa akon sa pagkaon amo pa ang nagtraidor sa akon.’
Ginasugid ko na ini nga daan sa inyo samtang wala pa matabo, para kon matabo na magapati kamo nga ako amo gid man ang Cristo.
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang nagabaton sa mga tawo nga akon ginapadala nagabaton man sa akon, kag ang nagabaton sa akon nagabaton man sa nagpadala sa akon.”
Pagkahambal sadto ni Jesus, nagkasubo gid siya. Siling niya, “Sa pagkamatuod, ang isa sa inyo magatraidor sa akon.”
Gani nagtinulukay ang iya mga sumulunod nga nagalibog ang ila ulo kon sin-o sa ila ang iya ginatumod.
Karon, ang isa sa mga sumulunod nga palangga gid ni Jesus nagapungko didto sa iya tupad.
Gani ginsinyasan siya ni Simon Pedro nga pamangkuton si Jesus kon sin-o ang iya ginatumod.
Gani nagpalapit pa gid siya kay Jesus kag nagpamangkot kon sin-o ang magatraidor sa iya.
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Itusmog ko ang tinapay nga ini, kag kon sin-o ang akon hatagan, siya amo ang magatraidor sa akon.” Dayon gintusmog niya ang tinapay kag ginhatag kay Judas nga anak ni Simon Iscariote.
Pagkabaton ni Judas sadto nga tinapay, nagsulod si Satanas sa iya. Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa iya, “Sige, himua na sa gilayon ang imo himuon.”
(Didto sa mga nagapanyapon, wala gid sing may nakaintiendi kon ngaa naghambal si Jesus sadto kay Judas.
Ang hunahuna sang iban nga mga sumulunod nga ginsugo lang siya ni Jesus nga magbakal sang ila mga kinahanglanon para sa piesta, ukon maghatag sing limos sa mga imol, kay si Judas amo ang nagauyat sang ila kuwarta.)
Sang nakaon na ni Judas ang tinapay nagguwa siya dayon. Gab-i na sadto.
Sang nakahalin na si Judas, nagsiling si Jesus, “Karon, ako nga ako nga Anak sang Tawo padunggan na, kag paagi sa akon ang Dios padunggan man.
Kag kon paagi sa akon dayawon ang Dios, ipakita man niya nga ako dalayawon man. Kag ini himuon niya dayon.”
Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus Nagsiling pa gid si Jesus , “Kamo nga ginakabig ko nga akon mga anak, indi na ako makapakig-upod sa inyo sing madugay. Magapangita kamo sa akon, pero pareho sang akon ginsiling sa mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio, ginasiling ko man sa inyo subong nga indi kamo makakadto sa akon kaladtuan.
Gani karon ginahatag ko sa inyo ang isa ka bag-o nga sugo: maghigugmaanay kamo. Kon paano ang akon paghigugma sa inyo dapat pareho man sina ang inyo paghigugma sa isa kag isa.
Kon nagahigugmaanay kamo, ina mahibaluan sang tanan nga kamo akon mga sumulunod.”
Karon, ginpamangkot siya ni Simon Pedro, “Ginoo, sa diin ka bala makadto?” Nagsabat si Jesus, “Indi ka subong makaupod sa akon kon diin ako makadto, pero sa ulihi magasunod ka man didto.”
Pero nagpamangkot si Pedro, “Ginoo, ngaa indi ako makaupod sa imo subong? Kay desidido man ako nga maghatag sang akon kabuhi para sa imo.”
Ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Ano, desidido ka gid bala nga maghatag sang imo kabuhi para sa akon? Sa pagkamatuod, sa wala pa makapamalo ang manok, ipanginwala mo ako sing tatlo ka beses.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi kamo magsagi palibog. Magsalig kamo sa Dios kag magsalig man kamo sa akon.
Didto sa balay sang akon Amay may madamo nga kuwarto. Magauna ako didto para magpreparar sang lugar para sa inyo. Indi ako magsiling sini sa inyo kon indi ini matuod.
Kon didto na ako kag nakapreparar na sang lugar para sa inyo, mabalik ako para kuhaon ko kamo, para kon diin ako didto man kamo.
Kag nahibaluan ninyo ang dalan pakadto sa lugar nga akon pagakadtuan.”
Nagsiling si Tomas sa iya, “Ginoo, wala kami kahibalo kon diin ka makadto, gani paano namon mahibaluan ang dalan?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ako amo ang dalan, ang kamatuoran, kag ang kabuhi. Wala sing may makakadto sa Amay kon indi paagi sa akon.
Kon kilala ninyo ako, kilala na man ninyo ang akon Amay. Kag halin gani subong kilala na ninyo siya kag nakita na.”
Nagsiling si Felipe sa iya, “Ginoo, ipakita sa amon ang Amay kag tama na ina para sa amon.”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Dugay na ang aton pag-inupdanay, Felipe, pero wala pa gid gali ikaw makakilala sa akon? Ang nakakita sa akon nakakita man sa Amay. Ngaa nagasiling ka pa nga ipakita ko sa inyo ang Amay?
Ano, wala bala ikaw nagapati nga ako ara sa Amay kag ang Amay ari sa akon? Ang mga pulong nga akon ginhambal sa inyo indi ina halin sa akon. Ang Amay nga ari sa akon amo ang nagahimo sang mga butang nga akon ginahimo.
Magpati kamo sa akon nga ako ara sa Amay kag ang Amay ari sa akon. Kon indi ninyo gusto magpati sa akon ginasugid, patihi na lang ninyo ako tungod sa akon mga hinimuan.
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang nagatuo sa akon magahimo man sang mga butang nga akon ginahimo kag mas sobra pa gid ang iya himuon, tungod kay mabalik na ako sa Amay.
“Kon ginahigugma ninyo ako, tumanon ninyo ang akon mga sugo.
“Indi ko kamo pagbayaan nga wala sing upod; mabalik man ako sa inyo.
Madali na lang ako madula sa panan-aw sang mga tawo diri sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan, pero kamo makakita sa akon. Kag tungod kay ako nagakabuhi, kamo magakabuhi man.
Pag-abot sina nga adlaw
“Ang tawo nga nagabaton kag nagatuman sang akon mga sugo amo ang nagahigugma sa akon. Kag ang nagahigugma sa akon higugmaon man sang akon Amay. Higugmaon ko man siya kag ipakilala ko sa iya kon sin-o gid ako.”
Karon ginpamangkot siya ni Judas (indi ini si Judas Iscariote), “Ginoo, ngaa sa amon ka lang mapakilala kon sin-o ka gid? Ngaa indi ka magpakilala sa tanan?”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa iya, “Ang nagahigugma sa akon magatuman sang akon mga pulong; higugmaon siya sang akon Amay, kag kami magapuyo sa iya mismo.
Pero Pero ang wala nagahigugma sa akon wala nagatuman sang akon mga pulong. Ini nga mga pulong nga inyo ginapamatian indi halin sa akon, kundi halin sa Amay nga nagpadala sa akon.
“Ini nga mga butang ginasugid ko nga daan sa inyo samtang kaupod pa ninyo ako.
Pero kon makahalin na gani ako, kon makahalin na gani ako, ang Manugbulig nga amo ang Espiritu Santo amo ang ipadala sang Amay nga magbulos sa akon.
“Indi kamo magpalibog kag indi man kamo magkahadlok, tungod kay ang kalinong ginabilin ko sa inyo. Ang akon kalinong mismo ginahatag ko sa inyo; indi ini pareho sang kalinong nga ginahatag sang kalibutan.
Nabatian ninyo ang akon ginsiling sa inyo nga mahalin ako pero mabalik man ako sa inyo. Kon ginahigugma ninyo ako, kuntani nagakalipay kamo nga makakadto ako sa Amay nga mas gamhanan pa sang sa akon.
Ginasugid ko nga daan ini sa inyo samtang wala pa matabo, para kon matabo na magabaskog pa gid ang inyo pagtuo sa akon.
Indi na ako makapadugay sa paghambal sa inyo, tungod kay nagaabot na si Satanas nga amo si Satanas nga amo ang nagagahom sa sini nga kalibutan. Sa matuod, wala siya sing gahom sa akon.
Pero para mahibaluan sang tanan nga tawo nga ginahigugma ko ang Amay, ginasunod ko ang tanan nga iya ginapahimo sa akon. Dali na. Malakat na kita.”
Nagsiling pa si Jesus, Nagsiling pa si Jesus, “Ako amo ang matuod nga puno sang ubas, kag ang akon Amay amo ang manug-atipan.
Ang akon mga sanga nga wala nagapamunga ginapang-utod niya, kag ang kada sanga nga nagapamunga ginalimpyuhan niya para magpamunga pa gid sing madamo.
Kamo nalimpyuhan na paagi sa pulong nga akon ginsiling sa inyo.
Magpabilin kamo sa akon, kag magapabilin man ako sa inyo. Pareho nga ang sanga indi makapamunga sa iya lang kaugalingon, luwas kon magpabilin ini sa sanga, amo man kamo sina, indi kamo makapamunga
“Ako amo ang puno sang ubas, kag kamo ang akon mga sanga. Ang tawo nga nagapabilin sa akon kag nagapabilin man ako sa iya, siya amo ang magapamunga sing madamo, kay kon wala ako sa inyo wala gid kamo sing may mahimo.
Ang tawo nga nagabulag sa akon ihaboy, pareho sa mga sanga nga ginahaboy kag nagakalaya, dayon ginatipon kag ginahaboy sa kalayo para masunog.
Kon nagapabilin kamo sa akon kag kon ginatipigan ninyo sa inyo mga tagipusuon ang akon mga pulong, makapangayo kamo sa akon bisan ano nga inyo gusto, kag ini mabaton ninyo.
Kon padayon kamo nga nagapamunga sing madamo, ang akon Amay dayawon sang mga tawo, kag sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan nga kamo akon mga sumulunod.
Kon ano ang paghigugma sang Amay sa akon pareho man sina ang akon paghigugma sa inyo. Pabilin kamo sa akon gugma.
Kon ginatuman ninyo ang akon mga sugo, padayon ang akon paghigugma sa inyo. Pareho man ini sa akon nga nagatuman sang mga sugo sang akon Amay, gani padayon man ang iya paghigugma sa akon.
“Ginasugid ko ini sa inyo para malipay man kamo pareho sa akon, kag mangin bug-os gid ang inyo kalipay.
Amo ini ang akon sugo: maghigugmaanay kamo pareho sang akon paghigugma sa inyo.
Kon may tawo nga desidido nga maghatag sang iya kabuhi para sa iya mga abyan, ina nga paghigugma indi na gid malabawan.
Mga abyan ko kamo kon ginatuman ninyo ang akon mga sugo.
Indi ko na kamo pagtawgon nga mga ulipon, kay ang ulipon wala kahibalo kon ano ang ginahimo sang iya amo. Kundi ginatawag ko na kamo subong nga akon mga abyan, kay kon ano ang akon nabatian halin sa akon Amay amo man ang akon ginasugid sa inyo.
Indi kamo ang nagpili sa akon kundi ako ang nagpili sa inyo. Ginpili ko kamo para maglakat kag magpamunga sing mga bunga nga nagapadayon; para ang bisan ano nga inyo pangayuon sa Amay sa akon ngalan
Gani amo ini ang akon sugo sa inyo: maghigugmaanay kamo.
“Kon ginadumtan kamo sang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan, indi kamo dapat matingala tungod kay indi kamo dapat matingala tungod kay nahibaluan ninyo nga ako amo ang una nila nga ginadumtan.
Kon kaupod kamo sang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan, higugmaon kamo nila. Pero ginadumtan nila kamo tungod kay indi nila kamo kaupod kundi ginpili ko kamo halin sa ila.
Dumdumon ninyo ang akon ginhambal sa inyo nga wala sing ulipon nga labaw pa sa iya amo.
Ini tanan himuon nila sa inyo tungod kay nagatuo kamo sa akon, kag wala sila makakilala sa nagpadala sa akon.
Kon wala ako nagkadto diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan kag nagtudlo sa ila, wala kuntani sila sing salabton, pero karon indi na gid sila makabalibad sa ila mga sala.
Ang nagadumot sa akon, nagadumot man sa akon Amay.
Kon wala ako naghimo sang mga milagro sa tunga nila, nga wala sing bisan sin-o nga tawo nga nakahimo, wala kuntani sila sing salabton. Pero bisan nakita na gid nila ang akon mga hinimuan, nagadumot pa gihapon sila sa akon kag sa akon Amay.
Sa ila ginahimo nga ini natuman ang nasulat sa ila Kasuguan nga nagasiling, ‘Gindumtan nila ako nga wala sing kabangdanan.’ ”
Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa ila, Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa ila, “Ipadala ko sa inyo ang Espiritu Santo Santo nga halin sa Amay. Siya amo ang ginatawag nga Manugbulig kag siya man ang manugtudlo sang kamatuoran. Kag kon mag-abot na siya isugid niya kon sin-o gid ako.
Kag dapat magsugid man kamo parte sa akon parte sa akon tungod kay kaupod ko kamo halin pa sang una.
“Ginasugid ko nga daan sa inyo ini nga mga butang agod bisan ano pa ang matabo sa ulihi bisan ano pa ang matabo sa ulihi indi madula ang inyo pagtuo sa akon.
Indi na nila kamo pagpasudlon sa ila mga simbahan, kag magaabot ang tion nga ang bisan sin-o nga magpatay sa inyo magahunahuna nga nagaalagad siya sa Dios.
Himuon nila ini sa inyo tungod kay wala sila makakilala sa Amay ukon sa akon.
“Ini nga mga butang wala ko ginsugid sa inyo sang una kay kaupod pa ninyo ako.
Pero karon mabalik na ako sa nagpadala sa akon kag wala gid sing may nagapamangkot bisan isa sa inyo kon diin ako makadto.
Karon nga ginsugiran ko na kamo, nagakasubo gid kamo.
Pero sa pagkamatuod, mas maayo para sa inyo nga maghalin ako diri, kay kon indi ako maghalin, ang Manugbulig indi mag-abot sa inyo. Pero kon maghalin ako, ipadala ko siya diri sa inyo.
Kag kon mag-abot na siya diri sa kalibutan ipakita niya sa mga tawo nga sila mga makasasala kag ako amo ang matarong. Kag ipakita man niya nga ang Dios magasentensya sa ila.
Ipakita niya sa mga tawo nga sila mga makasasala, tungod kay wala sila nagtuo sa akon.
Ipakita niya nga ako ang matarong, tungod kay makadto ako sa Amay kag indi na kamo makakita sa akon.
Ipakita man niya sa ila nga ang Dios magasentensya sa ila, kay nasentensyahan na si Satanas nga amo si Satanas nga amo ang nagagahom sa sini nga kalibutan.
“May madamo pa kuntani ako nga inugsugid sa inyo, ugaling indi pa kamo makaintiendi sini.
Pero kon mag-abot na ang Espiritu Santo nga amo ang manugtudlo Santo nga amo ang manugtudlo sang kamatuoran, tudluan niya kamo sang tanan nga kamatuoran. Ang mga butang nga iya itudlo sa inyo indi halin sa iya, kundi kon ano ang iya nabatian amo ina ang iya isugid sa inyo. Isugid man niya sa inyo kon ano ang magakalatabo sa palaabuton.
Padunggan niya ako tungod kay ipaintiendi niya sa inyo ang akon mga ginpanudlo kag ginpanghimo.
Kay kon ano ang ginapanudlo sang Amay amo man ang sa akon. Amo ina nga nagsiling ako nga ang akon mga ginpanudlo ipaintiendi niya sa inyo.
“Indi na lang madugay kag indi na ninyo ako makita. Pero sa indi man madugay makita naman ninyo ako liwat.”
Nagpinamangkutanay ang iban sa iya mga sumulunod, “Ano bala ang buot niya silingon nga sa indi na lang madugay indi na naton siya makita, kag sa indi man madugay makita naman naton siya liwat? Kag nagsiling pa siya nga ini matabo tungod kay mabalik na siya sa Amay.
Ano bala ang iya buot silingon sa ‘indi na lang madugay’? Indi ta maintiendihan kon ano ang iya buot silingon.”
Nahibaluan ni Jesus nga gusto kuntani nila nga magpamangkot sa iya, gani nagsiling siya sa ila, “Nagsiling ako nga sa indi na lang madugay indi na ninyo ako makita, pero sa indi man madugay makita naman ninyo ako liwat. Indi bala nga amo ini kuntani ang inyo gusto nga ipamangkot sa akon?
Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan magakalipay gid sa matabo sa akon sa matabo sa akon , pero kamo magahibi sa kasubo. Pero ang inyo mga kasubo madula kag mabayluhan sang kalipay.
Pareho sa babayi nga nagapasakit tungod kay mabata na siya. Pero kon matawo na gani ang bata, malimtan na niya ang kasakit tungod sang iya kalipay nga natawo na ang iya bata diri sa kalibutan.
Kamo pareho man sina. Karon nagakasubo kamo, pero magapakita pa ako liwat sa inyo kag magaawas gid ang inyo kalipay. Kag wala gid sing bisan sin-o nga makakuha sang sina nga kalipay.
“Kag kon mag-abot na gani ina nga adlaw indi na kinahanglan nga magpamangkot pa kamo sang bisan ano sa akon. Sa pagkamatuod, ginasugid ko sa inyo nga ang Amay magahatag sa inyo sang bisan ano nga inyo pangayuon sa iya sa iya sa akon ngalan.
Hasta subong wala pa kamo makapangayo sang bisan ano sa akon ngalan. Pangayo kamo para makabaton kamo, kag para mangin bug-os ang inyo kalipay.
“Ginasugid ko ini nga mga butang sa inyo paagi sa mga paanggid. Pero magaabot ang tion nga indi na ako maggamit sang mga paanggid, kundi ideretso ko na nga isugid sa inyo ang parte sa Amay.
Kon mag-abot na ina nga adlaw, kamo mismo ang magapangayo sa Amay sa akon ngalan. Indi na kinahanglan nga ako pa ang magapangayo sa Amay para sa inyo.
Kay ang Amay mismo nagahigugma sa inyo tungod kay nagahigugma kamo sa akon, kag nagapati nga ako halin sa Dios.
Halin ako sa Amay kag nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan. Pero karon magahalin na ako sa sini nga kalibutan kag magabalik sa Amay.”
Nagsiling dayon ang iya mga sumulunod, “Karon maathag na ang imo ginahambal kay wala ka na nagagamit sang mga paanggid.
Karon sigurado na kami nga nahibaluan mo ang tanan nga butang, kay bisan gani nga wala kami nagapamangkot sa imo nahibaluan mo na nga daan ang amon mga ginahunahuna. Gani nagapati kami nga ikaw halin gid man sa Dios.”
Nagsabat si Jesus sa ila, “Ti, nagatuo na kamo subong sa akon sa akon ?
Pero magaabot ang tion kag nag-abot na gani subong nga magabululag kamo kag magapalauli, kag bayaan ninyo ako nga nagaisahanon lang. Pero bisan bayaan ninyo ako may kaupod gihapon ako tungod kay kaupod ko ang Amay.
Ginasugid ko ini nga mga butang sa inyo para may kalinong kamo tungod sa inyo pagtuo sa akon. Paantuson kamo sang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan, pero indi kamo magkahadlok tungod kay gindaog ko na sila.”
Pagkahambal sadto ni Jesus, nagtangla siya sa langit kag nagsiling, “Amay, nag-abot na ang tion. Padunggi ang imo Anak para padunggan ka man sang imo Anak.
Kay ginhatagan mo ako sing awtoridad nga maggahom sa tanan nga tawo, para mahatagan ko sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan ang tanan nga tawo nga imo ginhatag sa akon.
Kag amo ini ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan: nga ang mga tawo magkilala sa imo nga amo lamang ang matuod nga Dios kag magkilala man sa akon nga imo pinadala nga hari.
Ginpadunggan ko ikaw diri sa kalibutan tungod kay natapos ko na ang imo ginpahimo sa akon.
Gani karon Amay, padunggi ako dira sa imo presensya. Ihatag sa akon ang dungog nga akon man anay sang dira pa ako sa imo sa wala mo pa matuga ang kalibutan.
“Ginpakilala ko ikaw sa mga tawo nga imo ginpili sa kalibutan kag ginhatag sa akon. Imo sila anay kag ginhatag mo sila sa akon, kag gintuman nila ang imo mga sugo.
Karon nahibaluan na nila nga ang tanan nga imo ginhatag sa akon sa imo naghalin.
Kon ano ang imo gintudlo sa akon amo man ang akon gintudlo sa ila, kag ginbaton nila ini. Kag nahibaluan nila nga matuod gid man nga sa imo ako naghalin. Kag nagapati sila nga ikaw ang nagpadala sa akon.
“Nagapangamuyo ako para sa ila. Ini nga pangamuyo indi para sa mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan, kundi para sa mga tawo nga imo ginhatag sa akon, tungod kay ini sila imo.
Ang tanan nga tawo nga akon, imo, kag ang tanan nga imo, akon man. Kag ginapadunggan nila ako.
Karon mabalik na ako sa imo kag indi na ako magtiner sa sini nga kalibutan. Pero sila mabilin pa diri sa kalibutan. O balaan nga Amay, paagi sa imo gahom nga imo ginhatag sa akon bantayi ini nga mga tawo para sila tanan mangin isa pareho nga ikaw kag ako isa.
Sang kaupod pa nila ako ginbantayan ko sila paagi sa imo gahom nga ginhatag mo sa akon. Ginbantayan ko sila, kag wala gid sing may nadula sa ila, luwas lang sa tawo nga madula gid man para matuman ang Kasulatan.
Karon mabalik na ako dira sa imo. Ini nga mga butang ginasugid ko na nga daan sa ila sa ila samtang diri pa ako sa kalibutan para malipay gid sila pareho sa akon.
Gintudlo ko sa ila ang imo ginpatudlo sa akon. Gindumtan sila sang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan. Kay indi na sila iya sang kalibutan, pareho man sa akon nga indi iya sang kalibutan.
Wala ako nagapangabay nga kuhaon mo na sila diri sa kalibutan, kundi nga apinan mo sila kontra kay Satanas.
Indi sila iya sang kalibutan, pareho man sa akon nga indi iya sang kalibutan.
Iseparar sila para mangin imo paagi sa kamatuoran; ang imo pulong amo ang kamatuoran.
Ginpadala mo ako diri sa kalibutan, gani ginapadala ko man sila nga magpanudlo sa mga tawo diri nga magpanudlo sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan.
Tungod sa ila ginahalad ko sa imo ang akon kaugalingon, para mangin imo man sila paagi sa kamatuoran.
“Indi lang ang ini nga mga tawo nga nagatuo sa akon ang akon ginapangamuyuan, kundi pati man ang mga tawo nga magatuo sa akon sa ulihi paagi sa mga pagpanudlo sang mga nagatuo sa akon.
Ginapangamuyo ko sa imo nga sila tanan mangin isa, pareho man sa aton nga isa lang. Kag kon paano nga ikaw, Amay, ari sa akon kag ako ara sa imo, kabay pa nga sila ari man sa aton para ang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan magatuo nga ikaw amo ang nagpadala sa akon.
Ginhatagan ko sila sing kadungganan nga pareho man sang ginhatag mo sa akon, para mangin isa sila pareho man sa aton nga isa lang.
Ako ara sa ila kag ikaw ari sa akon, para mangin isa gid sila, kag sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan sang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan nga ikaw amo ang nagpadala sa akon. Kag mahibaluan man nila nga ginapalangga mo ang mga tumuluo pareho sang imo pagpalangga sa akon.
“Amay, gusto ko nga ang ini nga mga tawo nga imo ginhatag sa akon mangin kaupod ko kon diin ako, para makita man nila ang akon gahom, ang gahom nga imo ginhatag sa akon, tungod kay palangga mo ako bisan sa wala pa matuga ang kalibutan.
Matarong nga Amay, ang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan wala makakilala sa imo. Pero ako nakakilala sa imo, kag ini sila nga akon mga kaupod nakahibalo nga ikaw amo ang nagpadala sa akon.
Ginpakilala ko ikaw sa ila, kag ipakilala ko pa gid ikaw para ang imo paghigugma sa akon mangin ara man sa ila, kag para ako man mangin ara sa ila.”
Pagkatapos pangamuyo ni Jesus, naglakat siya dayon kaupod sang iya mga sumulunod kag nagtabok sila sa Kidron nga ililigan sang tubig. Didto sila nagkadto sa lugar nga sa diin may talamnan sang mga kahoy nga olibo sang mga kahoy nga olibo .
Kabisado na nga daan ni Judas nga traidor ang ini nga lugar, kay permi didto nagatilipon si Jesus kag ang iya mga sumulunod.
Gani nagkadto didto si Judas nga may dala nga Romanhon nga Romanhon nga mga soldado pati mga guwardya sa templo nga ginsugo sang mga manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga Pariseo. May dala sila nga mga sulo kag mga parol, kag mga armas.
Nahibaluan ni Jesus ang tanan nga matabo sa iya, gani ginsugata niya sila kag ginpamangkot, “Sin-o bala ang inyo ginapangita?”
Si Judas nga traidor didto man nagatindog kaupod sang mga tawo nga nagapangita kay Jesus.
Pagsiling ni Jesus nga siya amo ang ila ginapangita, nag-isol sila kag nagkalatumba sa duta.
Ginpamangkot liwat sila ni Jesus kon sin-o gid ang ila ginapangita. Nagsiling sila liwat, “Si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Indi bala nga ginsilingan ko na kamo nga ako? Gani kon ako gid man ang inyo ginapangita, pabay-i lang ninyo nga maghalin ining akon mga kaupod.”
(Ginhambal niya ini para matuman ang iya ginsiling sa Amay, “Wala gid sing may nadula bisan isa sa imo ginhatag sa akon.”
Karon, si Simon Pedro may dala nga espada. Gin-gabot niya ini kag ginlabo ang ulipon sang pangulo nga pari, kag nautod ang iya tuo nga dulunggan. Ang ngalan sang ulipon amo si Malcus.
Nagsiling si Jesus kay Pedro, “Ibalik sa tagob ang imo espada. Nagahunahuna ka bala nga indi ko pag-antuson ang mga ginapaantos sang Amay sa akon?”
Gindakop si Jesus sang Romanhon nga Romanhon nga mga soldado nga ginpangunahan sang ila kapitan, kag kaupod man sang mga guwardya nga mga Judio. Gin-gapos nila siya
kag gindala anay kay Anas nga ugangan ni Caifas. Si Caifas nga ini amo ang pangulo nga pari sadto nga tuig.
Siya man ang nagsiling sa kapareho niya nga mga lider sang kapareho niya nga mga lider sang mga Judio nga mas maayo nga isa lang ka tawo ang mapatay para sa ila nasyon.
Si Simon Pedro kag ang isa pa ka sumulunod nagsunod man didto kay Jesus. Ini nga sumulunod kilala sang pangulo nga pari, gani nakasulod siya sa ugsaran sang pangulo nga pari kaupod ni Jesus.
Pero si Pedro nabilin didto sa guwa sa may puwertahan. Karon, ato nga sumulunod nga kilala sang pangulo nga pari nagbalik didto sa guwa kag ginhambalan niya ang babayi nga nagabantay didto sa puwertahan, kag ginpasulod niya si Pedro.
Nagsiling ang babayi kay Pedro, “Indi bala nga ikaw isa man sa mga sumulunod sang sina nga tawo?” Nagsabat si Pedro, “Indi ah!”
Matugnaw sadto, gani nagdabok sang kalayo ang mga ulipon kag ang mga guwardya kag nagtindog sila sa palibot sang dabok para magpainit-init. Nagtindog man didto si Pedro kag nagpainit-init.
Karon, ginpamangkot si Jesus sang pangulo nga pari parte sa iya mga sumulunod kag sa iya ginapanudlo.
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Indi sa sekreto ang akon ginatudlo sa mga tawo. Kay nagpanudlo ako mismo sa mga simbahan kag sa templo nga sa diin nagatilipon ang tanan nga Judio. Wala ako sing may gintudlo sa sekreto.
Ti ngaa ako ang inyo ginapamangkot? Pamangkuta ninyo ang mga tawo nga nakabati sa akon, kay nahibaluan nila kon ano ang akon gintudlo sa ila.”
Pagkahambal sadto ni Jesus, gintampa siya sang isa sa mga guwardya nga nagatindog malapit sa iya. Kag siling niya, “Amo bala ina ang panabat mo sa pangulo nga pari?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Kon ang sabat ko malain, magsiling ka kon diin sadto ang malain. Pero kon husto ang akon ginsiling, ti ngaa gintampa mo ako?”
Karon, si Jesus nga nagapos pa ginpadala dayon ni Anas kay Caifas nga pangulo nga pari.
Samtang nagatindog pa si Simon Pedro nga nagapainit-init malapit sa kalayo malapit sa kalayo , ginpamangkot siya sang mga tawo, “Indi bala nga ikaw isa man sa mga sumulunod sang sina nga tawo?” Nagpanginwala liwat si Pedro kag nagsiling, “Indi ah!”
Karon, ang isa didto sa mga ulipon sang pangulo nga pari paryente sang tawo nga ang iya dulunggan gintigbas ni Pedro. Nagsiling siya, “Indi bala nga ikaw atong nakita ko nga kaupod niya didto sa talamnan sang mga kahoy nga olibo sang mga kahoy nga olibo ?”
Pero nagpanginwala liwat si Pedro. Kag dayon nagpamalo ang manok.
Halin kay Caifas gindala nila si Jesus didto sa palasyo sang Gobernador. Kaagahon na sadto. Wala nagsulod ang mga Judio sa palasyo tungod kay suno sa ila mga pagsulundan, nga kon magsulod sila sa balay sang indi Judio, indi na sila pagtugutan nga magkaon sang panyapon nga para sa Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Gani si Gobernador Gobernador Pilato
Nagsabat sila, “Kon wala siya sing may nahimo nga malain wala namon siya kuntani gindala diri sa imo.”
Nagsiling si Pilato sa ila, “Dal-a ninyo siya kag kamo ang maghukom sa iya suno sa inyo kasuguan.” Nagsabat ang mga Judio, “Pero wala kami ginatugutan nga magsentensya sing kamatayon sa tawo.”
(Natabo ini para matuman ang ginsiling ni Jesus kon ano nga klase sang kamatayon ang iya pagaagyan.)
Gani nagsulod liwat si Pilato sa palasyo kag gintawag si Jesus kag ginpamangkot, “Ikaw bala ang hari sang mga Judio?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Imo gid bala ina nga pamangkot, ukon ginsugiran ka lang sang iban parte sa akon?”
Nagsiling si Pilato, “Ano ang dumdom mo sa akon, Judio? Ang imo mga kasimanwa kag ang ila manugdumala nga mga pari amo ang nagdala sa imo diri sa akon. Ano gid bala ang nahimo mo?”
Ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Ang akon ginharian wala diri sa sining kalibutan. Kon ang akon ginharian diri sa sining kalibutan, kuntani nagpakig-away ang akon mga alagad para indi ako madakop sang mga Judio. Pero sa pagkamatuod, ang akon ginharian wala diri sa sining kalibutan.”
Gani nagsiling si Pilato sa iya, “Kon amo, hari gali ikaw!” Ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Husto ang imo ginsiling nga hari ako. Kag ang kabangdanan nga nagkadto ako diri sa kalibutan kag nagpakatawo, para isugid ko sa mga tawo ang kamatuoran. Kag ang tanan nga gusto makahibalo sang kamatuoran nagapamati sa akon.”
Pagkahambal sadto ni Pilato, nagguwa siya liwat didto sa mga Judio kag nagsiling sa ila, “Wala ako sing may nakita nga sala sa sini nga tawo.
Indi bala nga kinabatasan ninyo nga kada Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel nagapangayo kamo sa akon sang isa ka priso nga akon buy-an? Gani gusto bala ninyo nga buy-an ko ang hari sang mga Judio?”
Nagsabat ang mga tawo nga nagasinggit, “Indi siya, kundi si Barabas!” (Si Barabas nga ini isa ka tulisan.
Gani ginpakuha ni Pilato si Jesus kag ginpalatigo niya siya.
Pagkatapos naghimo dayon ang mga soldado sing korokorona nga tunukon kag ginbutang sa ulo ni Jesus. Ginpasuksukan man nila siya sing kapa nga granate,
kag isa-isa sila nga nagpalapit sa iya nga nagasiling, “Mabuhay ang Hari sang mga Judio.” Kag gintampa nila siya dayon.
Nagguwa liwat si Pilato didto sa mga tawo kag nagsiling, “Tan-awa, kay paguwaon ko siya diri liwat sa inyo para ipakita sa inyo nga wala gid ako sing may nakita nga sala sa iya.”
Gani nagguwa si Jesus nga may korokorona nga tunukon kag may kapa nga granate. Nagsiling dayon si Pilato sa ila, “Tan-awa ninyo siya!”
Pagkakita sa iya sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga guwardya, nagsinggit sila, “Ilansang siya sa krus! Ilansang siya sa krus!” Nagsiling si Pilato sa ila, “Bahala kamo, kuhaa ninyo siya kag kamo ang maglansang sa iya sa krus, kay para sa akon wala gid ako sing may nakita nga sala sa iya.”
Nagsabat ang mga Judio, “May kasuguan kami, kag suno sa amon kasuguan, ini nga tawo dapat nga patyon, kay nagasiling siya nga Anak kuno siya sang Dios.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Pilato, hinadlukan pa gid siya tapat.
Gani gindala niya liwat si Jesus sa sulod sang palasyo kag ginpamangkot kon taga-diin gid siya. Pero wala nagsabat si Jesus.
Gani nagsiling si Pilato sa iya, “Ngaa indi ka magsabat sa akon? Wala ka bala kahibalo nga may awtoridad ako sa paghilway sa imo ukon sa pagpalansang sa imo sa krus?”
Ginsabat siya ni Jesus, “Wala ka gid sing may mahimo sa akon kon wala ka paghatagi sang Dios sang awtoridad. Gani mas dako pa ang sala sang tawo nga nagtugyan sa akon diri sa imo.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Pilato nagpangita pa gid siya sing paagi nga mabuy-an si Jesus. Ugaling nagsinggit ang mga Judio, “Kon buy-an mo siya, indi ka abyan sang Emperador. Kay ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakahari kaaway sang Emperador.”
Pagkabati sadto ni Pilato, gindala niya si Jesus sa guwa kag nagpungko siya sa hukmanan, didto sa lugar nga ginatawag, “Ang Plataporma nga Bato,” (kon sa Hebreo nga lingguahe nga lingguahe , “Gabbata”).
Mga alas dose gid sadto sang udto kag bisperas
Nagsinggit sila dayon, “Patya siya! Patya siya! Ilansang siya sa krus!” Gani nagpamangkot si Pilato sa ila, “Gusto bala ninyo nga ipalansang ko sa krus ang inyo hari?” Nagsabat ang manugdumala nga mga pari, “Wala na kami sing iban pa nga hari kundi ang Emperador lang!”
Gani gindala si Jesus sang mga soldado
kag nagguwa sila sa siyudad. Ginpapas-an nila kay Jesus ang iya krus pakadto sa lugar nga ginatawag, “Lugar sang Bagol,”
Didto nila siya ginlansang sa krus. May duha man ka tawo nga ila gindungan lansang sa iya; ang isa sa wala kag ang isa sa tuo, kag si Jesus sa tunga nila.
si jesus nga taga-nazaret, ang hari sang mga judio. si jesus nga taga-nazaret, ang hari sang mga judio.
Nasulat ini sa mga lingguahe nga mga lingguahe nga Hebreo, Latin kag Griego, kag madamo nga Judio ang nakabasa sini, tungod kay ang lugar nga ginlansangan kay Jesus malapit lang sa siyudad.
Nagsiling ang manugdumala nga mga pari sang mga Judio kay Pilato, “Kuntani indi ‘Ang Hari sang mga Judio’ ang imo ginpasulat, kundi ‘Ini nga tawo nagasiling nga siya kuno amo ang Hari sang mga Judio.’ ”
Nagsabat si Pilato, “Kon ano ang akon ginpasulat indi na ninyo pagliwaton.”
Sang nalansang na sang mga soldado si Jesus sa krus, ginkuha nila ang iya bayo kag ginpartida sa apat ka parte, kada soldado isa ka parte. Ginkuha man nila ang iya pangsulod nga bayo nga hinabol nga wala sing tinahian.
Kag amo gani ang ginhimo sang mga soldado.
Didto malapit sa krus ni Jesus nagatindog ang iya iloy, ang utod sang iya iloy, si Maria nga asawa ni Clopas, kag si Maria nga taga-Magdala.
Pagkakita ni Jesus sa iya iloy kag sa iya pinalangga nga sumulunod nga nagatindog didto, nagsiling siya sa iya iloy, “Babayi,
Nagsiling man siya dayon sa iya sumulunod, “Kabiga siya nga imo iloy.” Kag halin sadto, ang iloy ni Jesus didto na nag-estar sa balay sang ato nga sumulunod.
Nahibaluan ni Jesus nga tapos na ang tanan, kag para matuman ang Kasulatan nagsiling siya, “Ginauhaw ako.”
May isa didto ka suludlan nga puno sang maaslom nga bino. Gani gintusmog nila ang espongha sa bino kag gintakod dayon nila sa punta sang punta sang sanga sang isopo kag ginduhol sa baba ni Jesus.
Sang masupsop niya ang bino, nagsiling siya dayon, “Tapos na!” Dayon nagduko siya kag nabugto ang iya ginhawa.
Bisperas sadto sang piesta. Kag indi gusto sang mga Judio nga ang mga bangkay sang mga tawo nga ginlansang sa krus magpabilin didto sa krus tungod kay ang sunod nga adlaw, Adlaw nga Inugpahuway. Kag importante gid ini nga adlaw para sa mga Judio, kay natuon sa piesta. Gani ginpangabay nila kay Pilato nga kon mahimo pamalion ang mga batiis sang mga tawo nga ginlansang sa krus para madali sila magkalamatay para madali sila magkalamatay , kag para mapanguha dayon ang ila mga bangkay.
Gani nagkadto didto ang mga soldado kag ginpamali nila ang mga batiis sang duha ka tawo nga ginlansang kaupod ni Jesus.
Pero pag-abot nila kay Jesus, nakita nila nga patay na siya, gani wala na lang nila pagbalia ang iya mga batiis.
Pero ang ginhimo sang isa sa mga soldado, ginbuno niya ang kilid ni Jesus sing bangkaw, kag sa gilayon nag-ilig ang dugo kag tubig.
Matuod ini nga mga hitabo tungod kay nakita ko mismo. Gani nahibaluan ko nga ang akon ginsulat nga ini matuod, kag ginsulat ko ini para magtuo man kamo.
Ini natabo para matuman ang nasulat sa Kasulatan nga nagasiling, “Wala gid sing bisan isa ka tul-an nga mabali sa iya.”
Kag may nasulat pa gid sa Kasulatan nga nagasiling, “Tan-awon nila ang tawo nga ila ginbuno.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagkadto si Jose nga taga-Arimatea kay Pilato kag nagpangabay nga kon mahimo tugutan siya nga kuhaon niya ang bangkay ni Jesus didto sa krus. (Si Jose nga ini isa sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus, pero sa sekreto lang kay nahadlok siya sa mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio.) Gintugutan siya ni Pilato, gani ginkuha niya ang bangkay ni Jesus.
Nag-upod man sa iya si Nicodemus. (Si Nicodemus nga ini nagkadto anay kay Jesus isa sadto ka gab-i.) May dala siya nga pahamot nga ginmiksla nga mira kag aloe, nga mga 45 ka kilo.
Ginkuha nila ang bangkay ni Jesus kag ila ini ginsamburan sang mga tela nga linen upod sang mga pahamot. Kay amo ini ang kinabatasan sang mga Judio kon maglubong sang patay.
Didto sa lugar nga sa diin ginlansang si Jesus may katamnan, kag didto may isa ka bag-o nga lulubngan nga gin-guhab sa banglid
Kag tungod nga preparasyon sadto sang mga Judio para sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, para sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, kag tungod kay malapit man lang ato nga lulubngan, didto na lang nila ginlubong si Jesus.
Aga pa gid sang adlaw nga Domingo, nagkadto si Maria nga taga-Magdala didto sa lulubngan. Pag-abot niya didto, nakita niya nga ang takop nga bato wala na didto sa puwertahan sang lulubngan.
Gani nagdalagan siya pakadto kay Simon Pedro kag sa sumulunod nga palangga ni Jesus. Pag-abot niya sa ila, Pag-abot niya sa ila, nagsiling siya, “Ginkuha nila ang Ginoo sa lulubngan, kag wala kami kahibalo kon diin nila siya ginbutang!”
Gani nagkadto si Pedro kag ato nga sumulunod didto sa lulubngan.
Nagdalagan sila nga duha, pero mas madasig ang isa sang sa kay Pedro. Gani una siya nga nakaabot sa lulubngan.
Pag-abot niya didto nagduko siya kag naglingling kag nakita niya ang mga tela nga linen nga ginputos kay Jesus nga ginputos kay Jesus , pero wala siya nagsulod.
Dugay-dugay nag-abot man si Simon Pedro, pero nagderetso siya sulod sa lulubngan. Nakita niya ang mga tela
kag ang panyo nga ginputos sa ulo ni Jesus. Nakabaruron
Kag nagpuli dayon ang duha ka sumulunod.
Karon, si Maria nagatindog pa didto sa guwa sang lulubngan nga nagahibi. Samtang nagahibi siya, nagduko siya kag naglingling sa sulod sang lulubngan.
Nakita niya nga may duha ka anghel didto sa sulod nga nagabayo sing puti. Didto sila nagapungko sa ginbutangan sang bangkay ni Jesus. Ang isa sa may ulohan dampi kag ang isa sa may tiilan dampi.
Ginpamangkot sang mga anghel si Maria, “Ngaa nagahibi ka?” Nagsabat si Maria, “Tungod kay may nagkuha sang bangkay sang akon Ginoo kag wala ako kahibalo kon diin nila ginbutang!”
Pagkahambal niya sadto nagbalikid siya dayon kag nakita niya si Jesus nga nagatindog, pero wala niya nakilala nga si Jesus gali ato.
Nagpamangkot si Jesus sa iya, “Ngaa nagahibi ka? Sin-o bala ang imo ginapangita?” Ang hunahuna ni Maria nga si Jesus amo ang manug-atipan sang mga tanom didto. Gani nagsiling siya sa iya, “Kon ikaw ang nagkuha sa iya, abi sugiri ako kon diin mo siya ginbutang, kay kuhaon ko siya.”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Maria!” Nag-atubang si Maria kay Jesus, kag naghambal sa Hebreo nga lingguahe nga lingguahe , “Raboni!” “Raboni!” (Kon sa aton pa, “Manunudlo.”)
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Indi ka mag-uyat sa akon, kay wala pa ako makasaka pabalik sa Amay. Ang imo himuon, kadtuan mo ang akon mga utod kag sugiran mo sila nga masaka na ako pabalik sa akon Amay kag inyo man Amay, sa akon Dios kag inyo man Dios.”
Gani ginkadtuan ni Maria nga taga-Magdala ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus kag ginsugiran niya dayon sila nga nakita niya ang Ginoo. Kag ginsugid man niya sa ila ang ginbilin ni Jesus.
Sang sirom na sadto nga adlaw nga Domingo, nagtilipon sa isa ka balay ang mga sumulunod. Kag tungod sa kahadlok sa mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio ginpangtrangkahan nila ang mga puwertahan sang balay nga ila ginatipunan. Nag-abot dayon si Jesus kag nagtindog didto sa tunga nila kag nagsiling, “Kabay pa nga ang kalinong ara sa inyo.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sini, ginpakita niya sa ila ang mga pilas sa mga pilas sa iya mga kamot kag sa iya kilid. Kag nalipay gid ang mga sumulunod sang makita nila ang Ginoo.
Kag nagsiling liwat si Jesus sa ila, “Kabay pa nga ang kalinong ara sa inyo. Kon paano nga ang Amay nagpadala sa akon, ako magapadala man sa inyo.”
Kag ginhuypan niya dayon sila kag nagsiling, “Batuna ninyo ang Espiritu Santo.
Kon patawaron ninyo ang mga sala ni bisan sin-o, ina ginpatawad na sang Dios sang Dios . Pero kon indi ninyo pagpatawaron, ina wala ginpatawad sang Dios sang Dios .”
Si Tomas nga ginatawag nga si Kapid, nga isa man sa dose ka apostoles ka apostoles , wala didto sang pag-abot ni Jesus.
Gani ginsugiran siya sang iya kaupod nga mga sumulunod nga nakita nila ang Ginoo. Pero nagsiling si Tomas sa ila, “Kon indi ko makita ang agi sang mga lansang sa iya mga kamot, kag kon indi ko matandog ang iya mga pilas, pati na ang pilas sa pilas sa iya kilid, indi gid ako magpati.”
Pagkaligad sang isa ka semana, nagtilipon liwat ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus sa balay nga ila ginatipunan, kag kaupod na nila si Tomas. Gintrangkahan nila ang mga puwertahan sang balay, pero nagsulod liwat si Jesus kag nagtindog didto sa ila tunga. Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Kabay pa nga ang kalinong ara sa inyo.”
Dayon nagsiling siya kay Tomas, “Tomas, dali, tan-awa ang akon mga kamot. Tanduga ang mga pilas ang mga pilas , pati na ang pilas sa pilas sa akon kilid. Indi ka na magpangduhaduha, kundi magtuo ka na.”
Nagsiling si Tomas kay Jesus, “Ginoo ko kag Dios ko!”
Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa iya, “Ti nagatuo ka na subong kay nakita mo na ako? Pero bulahan ang mga tawo nga nagatuo sa akon bisan wala nila ako makita.”
Madamo pa gid nga mga milagro ang ginpanghimo ni Jesus nga nakita mismo sang iya mga sumulunod nga wala masulat sa sini nga libro.
Pero ang mga nasulat diri ginsulat para magtuo kamo nga si Jesus amo ang Cristo, ang Anak sang Dios. Kag kon magtuo kamo sa iya
Pagkaligad sang pila ka adlaw, nagpakita liwat si Jesus sa iya mga sumulunod didto sa higad sang Dagat sang Tiberias. Amo ini ang natabo:
Nagatilipon sila ni Simon Pedro, si Tomas nga ginatawag nga si Kapid, si Natanael nga taga-Cana nga sakop sang Galilea, ang mga anak ni Zebedee, kag may duha pa gid ka sumulunod ni Jesus.
Karon, nagsiling si Simon Pedro sa iya mga kaupod, “Mangisda ako.” Nagsiling man sila, “Maupod kami sa imo.” Gani nagsakay sila sa sakayan kag nagpalawod. Pero sa sadto nga gab-i wala gid sila sing may nakuha.
Sang manugbutlak na ang adlaw, nagtindog si Jesus sa baybayon. Pero wala kahibalo ang mga sumulunod nga si Jesus gali ato.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Mga abyan, may nakuha bala kamo?” Nagsabat sila, “Wala gid.”
Nagsiling siya sa ila, “Ihulog ninyo ang inyo pukot sa tuo dampi sang sakayan, kag may makuha kamo.” Gani ginhulog nila didto ang ila pukot. Pagbatak nila indi na sila kadaog tungod sa kadamuon sang isda nga ila nakuha.
Nagsiling kay Pedro ang sumulunod nga palangga ni Jesus, “Ang Ginoo gali ato!” Pagkabati sini ni Simon Pedro, ginsuksok niya ang iya bayo nga iya gin-uba kag naglukso sa tubig kag naglangoy pakadto kay Jesus kag naglangoy pakadto kay Jesus .
Ang iban nga mga sumulunod nga didto sa sakayan nagpahigad nga nagabutong sang pukot nga puno sang mga isda, kay ang ila kalayuon sa baybayon mga 50 lang ka dupa.
Sang nakatakas na sila, may nakita sila nga nagatumpok nga baga nga may ginasugba nga isda kag may tinapay man.
Nagsiling dayon si Jesus sa ila, “Dala kamo diri sang pila ka isda nga inyo nakuha.”
Gani nagsaka si Simon Pedro sa sakayan kag ginbutong niya pahigad ang pukot nga puno sang dalagko nga mga isda nga bali 153 ka bilog. Pero bisan pa sa kadamo sang ila nakuha, wala gid magisi ang pukot.
Nagsiling si Jesus sa ila, “Dali kamo kag magpamahaw.” Wala gid sing bisan isa sa iya mga sumulunod nga nangisog sa pagpamangkot kon sin-o gid siya, kay nahibaluan nila nga siya amo ang Ginoo.
Ginkuha dayon ni Jesus ang tinapay kag ginpanghatag sa ila. Amo man ang iya ginhimo sa isda.
Ikatlo na ini ka beses nga nagpakita si Jesus sa iya iya mga sumulunod halin sang iya pagkabanhaw.
Pagkatapos nila pamahaw, nagsiling si Jesus kay Simon Pedro, “Simon nga anak ni Juan, ginahigugma mo bala ako labaw pa sa imo mga kaupod nga ini?” Nagsabat si Pedro, “Huo, Ginoo, nahibaluan mo nga ginahigugma ko ikaw.” Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Atipana ang akon mga karnero.”
Nagsiling liwat si Jesus sa iya, “Simon nga anak ni Juan, ginahigugma mo bala ako?” Nagsabat siya liwat, “Huo, Ginoo, nahibaluan mo nga ginahigugma ko ikaw.” Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Atipana ang akon mga karnero.”
Sa ikatlo ka beses nagsiling si Jesus, “Simon nga anak ni Juan, ano, ginahigugma mo bala ako?” Naglain buot ni Pedro tungod kay katatlo na ka beses nga ginpamangkot siya ni Jesus kon ginahigugma bala niya siya. Gani nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Ginoo, nahibaluan mo ang tanan, kag nahibaluan mo nga ginahigugma ko ikaw.” Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Atipana ang akon mga karnero.
Sa pagkamatuod, sang bataon ka pa, ikaw mismo ang nagasuksok sang imo paha kag nagakadto sa kon diin ang imo gusto. Pero kon tigulang ka na gani, padupahon ka lang kag iban na ang magapasuksok sang paha sa imo, kag dal-on ka dayon sa lugar nga indi mo gusto kadtuan.”
(Ginhambal ini ni Jesus para ipahibalo sa ila kon ano nga klase sang kamatayon ang maagyan ni Pedro, kag paagi sadto nga kamatayon madayaw niya ang Dios.) Dayon nagsiling si Jesus kay Pedro, “Sunod ka sa akon.”
Pagbalikid ni Pedro nakita niya nga nagasunod sa ila ang palangga nga sumulunod ni Jesus. (Siya amo ang malapit gid kay Jesus sang nagapanyapon sila, kag amo ang nagpamangkot sa Ginoo kon sin-o ang magatraidor sa iya.
Pagkakita ni Pedro sa iya, nagsiling siya kay Jesus, “Ti paano siya ya Ginoo?”
Nagsiling si Jesus sa iya, “Kon gusto ko abi nga indi siya mapatay hasta sa akon pagbalik diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan , ti, ano ang labot mo? Basta ikaw ya magsunod sa akon.”
Gani naglapnag ang balita sa mga kauturan nga ang ato nga sumulunod indi mapatay. Pero wala nagsiling si Jesus nga indi siya mapatay, kundi ang iya ginsiling, “Kon gusto ko abi nga indi siya mapatay hasta sa akon pagbalik, ti, ano ang labot mo?”
Siya amo ang sumulunod nga nagapamatuod nga matuod ang nasulat diri, kag siya mismo ang nagsulat sini. Kag nahibaluan ta nga ang iya ginasugid matuod.
Madamo pa gid ang mga ginpanghimo ni Jesus nga kon isa-isahon sulat, siguro indi mag-igo sa bilog nga kalibutan ang tanan nga libro nga sulatan.
Sa akon una nga libro ginsulat ko ang tanan nga ginpanghimo kag ginpanudlo ni Jesus halin sang pagsugod niya sang iya buluhaton
Isa sadto ka tion, samtang nagakaon si Jesus kaupod nila, nagsiling siya, “Indi kamo anay maghalin sa Jerusalem. Hulaton ninyo ang Espiritu Santo nga Espiritu Santo nga ginpromisa sang Amay. Ginsugid ko na ini sa inyo sang una.
Nagpangbautiso si Juan sa tubig, pero sa pila ka adlaw pagabautisohan kamo sa Espiritu Santo.”
Isa ka tion, samtang nagatilipon sila, ginpamangkot nila si Jesus, “Ginoo, amo na bala ini ang tion nga patindugon mo liwat ang ginharian sang Israel?”
Nagsabat si Jesus, “Wala kamo ginatuguti sang Amay nga mahibaluan ninyo kon san-o matabo ang mga butang nga iya gintalana.
Pero pag-abot sang Espiritu Santo sa inyo, hatagan niya kamo sing gahom. Dayon isugid ninyo ang mga butang parte sa akon, halin diri sa Jerusalem hasta sa bilog nga Judea kag Samaria, kag hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sini, gindala siya pa-langit. Kag sang nagatulok sila sa iya nga nagapaibabaw, ginlikupan siya sang panganod kag dayon nadula siya sa ila panulok.
Samtang sige ang ila tan-aw sa langit, may duha ka lalaki nga nagabayo sang puti nga hinali lang nga nagtindog malapit sa ila
kag nagsiling, “Kamo nga mga taga-Galilea, ngaa nagatindog pa kamo diri nga nagatangla sa langit? Ining Jesus nga inyo nakita nga gindala paibabaw magabalik diri sa kalibutan. Kag kon paano siya nagpaibabaw, sa amo man sina nga paagi ang iya pagbalik.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nagbalik ang mga apostoles sa Jerusalem halin sa Bukid sang mga Olibo. Ini nga bukid mga isa ka kilometro ang kalayuon halin sa siyudad sang Jerusalem.
Pag-abot nila sa Jerusalem, nagsaka sila sa ibabaw nga kuwarto sang balay nga ila ginadayunan. Sila amo sanday Pedro, Juan, Santiago, Andres, Felipe, Tomas, Bartolome, Mateo, Santiago nga anak ni Alfeus, Simon (nga sang una rebelde sa gobyerno sang Roma), kag si Judas nga anak ni Santiago.
Ini sila permi nagatipon para magpangamuyo. Kaupod man nila ang pila ka babayi pati si Maria nga iloy ni Jesus, kag ang mga utod nga lalaki ni Jesus.
Sang nagligad ang pila ka adlaw, nagtipon ang mga 120 ka tumuluo. Nagtindog si Pedro kag naghambal,
“Mga kauturan, kinahanglan matuman ang ginsiling sang Kasulatan nga ginpropesiya sang Espiritu Santo sang una paagi kay David. Ini parte kay Judas nga amo ang naggiya sa mga nagdakop kay Jesus.
Kaupod siya namon nga mga apostoles nga ginpili ni Jesus, kag parte siya sang amon buluhaton.”
(Pero nagbakal si Judas sang duta halin sa kuwarta nga iya nabaton sa malain nga buhat, kag didto nahulog siya nga una ang ulo. Nabusdik ang iya tiyan kag nagwagay ang iya tinai.
Nahibaluan ini sang tanan nga tawo sa Jerusalem, gani gintawag nila ato nga lugar Akeldama, nga kon sayuron, “Duta sang Dugo.”
“ ‘Ihatag na lang sa iban ang iya katungdanan.’
“Gani kinahanglan nga magpili kita sang isa ka tawo nga ibulos kay Judas. nga ibulos kay Judas. Dapat isa siya sang mga kaupod ta sa bilog nga tion nga nagkabuhi diri si Ginoong Jesus,
halin sang pagpangbautiso ni Juan hasta sang gindala si Jesus pa-langit. Ang mapilian sa ila magabulig sa aton sa pagpamatuod nga nabanhaw si Jesus.”
Gani duha ka lalaki ang ila ginpilian: si Matias kag si Jose nga ginatawag Barsabas (ukon Justus).
Kag antes sila magpili, antes sila magpili, nagpangamuyo sila, “Ginoo, ikaw ang nakahibalo sang tagipusuon sang tanan nga tawo. Gani ipahayag sa amon kon sin-o sa duha nga ini ang imo ginpili
nga mangin apostol sa pagbulos kay Judas. Kay ginbayaan ni Judas ang iya obra bilang isa ka apostol, kag nagkadto siya sa lugar nga bagay sa iya.”
Pagkatapos nila pangamuyo, naggabot-gabot sila. Kag ang napilian amo si Matias. Gani si Matias amo ang gindugang sa onse ka apostoles.
Pag-abot sang adlaw sang piesta nga ginatawag nga ginatawag Pentecostes, nagtipon ang tanan nga tumuluo sa isa ka balay.
Sang nagatipon sila, hinali lang nga may naghagunos nga halin sa langit pareho sang mabaskog nga hangin, kag puro na lang hagunos ang ila nabatian sa sulod sang balay nga ila ginatipunan.
Dayon may nakita sila nga mga dabdab sang kalayo nga daw sa mga dila nga naglalapta kag nagtungtong sa kada isa sa ila.
Napun-an sila tanan sang Espiritu Santo, kag naghambal sila dayon sang nagkalain-lain nga lingguahe nga wala nila natun-i. Ang Espiritu Santo Santo amo ang nagpahambal sina sa ila.
Sa amo man nga tion, didto sa Jerusalem, may mga Judio nga diosnon nga naghalin sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Pagkabati nila sang hagunos nga ato, nagdali-dali sila kadto sa ginatipunan sang mga tumuluo. Natingala gid sila tungod nga ang kada isa sa ila nakabati nga ang iya lingguahe ginahambal sang mga tumuluo.
Siling nila, “Ano ini? Pulos sila mga taga-Galilea!
Ngaa nga makahambal sila sa aton kaugalingon nga lingguahe?
Ang iban sa aton taga-Partia. May mga taga-Media, kag ang iban taga-Elam. May mga taga-Mesopotamia, Judea, kag Capadocia. May diri man nga taga-Pontus kag Asia.
Ang iban mga taga-Frigia, taga-Pamfilia, taga-Egypt, kag ang iban halin sa mga lugar nga sakop sang Libya nga malapit sa Cyrene. May mga taga-Roma,
mga Judio, kag mga indi Judio nga naconvert sa relihiyon sang mga Judio. Kag ang iban halin sa Crete kag Arabia. Pero mabatian ta sila nga nagahambal sa aton nga mga lingguahe parte sa makatilingala nga mga hinimuan sang Dios!”
Natingala gid ang tanan nga tawo didto. Kag tungod nga indi nila maintiendihan kon ano ang nagakatabo nagpinamangkutanay na lang sila sa isa kag isa. Nagsiling sila, “Ano bala ini?”
Pero ang iban nagyaguta sa mga tumuluo. Siling nila, “Hubog ini nga mga tawo sang bino!”
Gani nagtindog si Pedro upod sa onse ka apostoles ka apostoles , kag sa mabaskog nga tingog naghambal siya sa mga tawo, “Mga kasimanwa ko nga mga Judio, kag kamo tanan nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem, pamatii ninyo ako, kay isugid ko kon ano ang kahulugan sang sini nga mga butang.
Sala ang inyo hunahuna nga hubog ang ini nga mga tawo, kay alas nuwebe pa lang gani ini sang aga.
Amo ini ang ginpropesiya ni Propeta Joel sang una:
Ang inyo tigulang nga mga lalaki padamguhon ko.
kag isugid nila ang akon mga mensahi.
may makita nga dugo, kalayo, kag madamol nga aso.
ang makatilingala gid nga adlaw sang paghukom sang paghukom sang Ginoo.
sa Ginoo maluwas.” ’ ”
Nagpadayon si Pedro sa paghambal, Nagpadayon si Pedro sa paghambal, “Mga kasimanwa ko nga mga kasimanwa ko nga mga Israelinhon, pamatii ninyo ako! Si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret ginsugo diri sang Dios, kag ginpamatud-an ini sang Dios paagi sa mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga iya ginhimo paagi kay Jesus. Kamo mismo nakahibalo sini kay ini tanan nagkalatabo diri sa inyo.
Nahibaluan na nga daan sang Dios nga ini nga Jesus itugyan sa inyo kag amo na ini nga daan ang iya ginplano. Ginpapatay ninyo siya sa mga makasasala nga mga tawo nga naglansang sa iya sa krus.
Pero ginbanhaw siya sang Dios kag ginluwas sa gahom sang kamatayon, kay ang matuod, bisan ang kamatayon wala sing gahom sa paghawid sa iya.
Kag tungod nga ara siya sa akon tupad, indi ako matublag.
Kag magakabuhi ako nga may paglaom,
Indi mo pagtugutan nga madunot ang imo matutom nga alagad.
Tungod sang imo presensya, malipayon gid ako.’
“Mga kasimanwa, maathag nga wala naghambal si David parte sa iya kaugalingon, kay nahibaluan ta nga ang aton katigulangan nga si David napatay kag ginlubong, kag hasta gani subong nahibaluan ta kon diin iya lulubngan.
Propeta si David kag nahibaluan niya nga ang Dios nagpromisa sa iya nga ang isa sang iya mga kaliwat magapanubli sang iya ginharian.
Kag tungod nga nahibaluan ni David kon ano ang himuon sang Dios, naghambal siya parte sa pagkabanhaw ni Cristo, nga wala siya pagpabay-i nga mabilin sa lugar sang mga patay kag ang iya lawas wala madunot.
Ang iya ginatumod wala sing iban kundi si Jesus nga ginbanhaw sang Dios, kag kami tanan makasaksi nga nabanhaw siya.
Ginbayaw siya sa tuo sang Dios.
“Gani dapat gid nga mahibaluan sang tanan nga Israelinhon nga ini nga Jesus nga inyo ginlansang sa krus amo ang ginpili sang Dios nga mangin Ginoo kag Cristo.”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga tawo natandog ang ila mga tagipusuon. Gani nagpamangkot sila kay Pedro kag sa iya kaupod nga mga apostoles, “Mga kauturan, ano ang dapat namon himuon?”
Nagsiling si Pedro sa ila, “Ang tagsa-tagsa sa inyo maghinulsol sa inyo mga sala kag magpabautiso sa ngalan ni Jesu-Cristo,
Kay ini ginpromisa para sa inyo kag sa inyo mga anak kag sa tanan nga tawo nga didto sa malayo, sa tanan nga tawgon sang Ginoo nga aton Dios nga magpalapit sa iya.”
Madamo pa ang mga ginpahayag ni Pedro sa pagpamatuod sa ila sang iya mga ginpanghambal. Kag nagpangabay siya sa ila, “Luwasa ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa sining malain nga katawhan.”
Madamo ang nagtuo sa iya mensahi kag nagpabautiso dayon sila. Sa sadto nga adlaw mga 3,000 ka tawo ang nagdugang sa mga tumuluo sa mga tumuluo .
Nangin mapisan sila sa pagtuon sang mga ginatudlo sang mga apostoles, sa pagtilipon bilang mag-ulutod, sa pagpamihak-pihak sang tinapay, kag sa pagpangamuyo.
Madamo nga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang ang ginhimo sang Dios sang Dios paagi sa mga apostoles. Gani nagkabuhi ang mga tawo nga may pagtahod kag kahadlok sa Dios.
Malapit ang pag-inupdanay sang mga tumuluo, kag gintingob nila ang ila mga pagkabutang para makaambit ang tanan.
Ginpamaligya nila ang ila mga duta kag mga pagkabutang, kag ginpanagtag nila ang bili sa ila mga kaupod suno sa kinahanglan sang kada isa.
Adlaw-adlaw nagatipon sila sa templo kag nagapamihak-pihak sang tinapay sa ila mga balay. Malipayon gid sila sa ila pag-ambitanay sa pagkaon,
kag sige ang ila pagdayaw sa Dios. Naluyagan sila sang tanan nga tawo. Adlaw-adlaw ginadugang sang Ginoo sa ila ang mga tawo nga iya ginaluwas.
Isa sadto ka adlaw, sang mga alas tres sang hapon, nagkadto si Pedro kag si Juan sa templo. Oras ato sang pagpangamuyo.
Sa puwertahan sang templo may tawo didto nga lupog halin pa sang iya pagkatawo. Adlaw-adlaw ginadala siya sa sina nga puwertahan nga ginatawag “Matahom,” para magpakilimos sa mga tawo nga nagasulod sa templo.
Pagkakita niya kay Pedro kag kay Juan nga nagapasulod sa templo, nagpangayo siya sing limos.
Ginhimutaran siya ni Pedro kag ni Juan. Dayon nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Magtulok ka sa amon.”
Nagtulok ang tawo sa ila nga nagapaabot nga limusan siya.
Pero nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Wala gid ako sing kuwarta. Pero may ari ako nga ihatag sa imo: Sa ngalan
Dayon ginkaptan ni Pedro ang tuo nga kamot sang tawo kag ginpatindog siya. Hinali lang nga nagbaskog ang iya mga tiil kag mga bukobuko.
Sa gilayon nagtindog siya kag naglakat-lakat. Pagkatapos nag-upod siya sa ila sa templo. Sige ang iya lakat-lakat kag tumbo-tumbo nga nagadayaw sa Dios.
Nakita sang tanan nga nagalakat kag nagadayaw siya sa Dios.
Natalupangdan nila nga siya gali amo ang tawo nga nagapungko kag nagapakilimos didto sa puwertahan sang templo nga ginatawag “Matahom.” Gani natingala gid sila sing dako sa natabo sa iya.
Daw indi na magbulag kay Pedro kag kay Juan ato nga tawo. Sige ang iya uyat sa ila samtang nagalakat sila sa lugar nga ginatawag “Balkon ni Solomon.” Nagdinaguso ang tanan nga tawo didto sa ila, kay natingala gid sila.
Pagkakita ni Pedro sa mga tawo nagsiling siya sa ila, “Mga kasimanwa ko nga mga kasimanwa ko nga mga Israelinhon, ngaa natingala kamo sini? Ngaa ginatulok gid ninyo kami? Nagahunahuna bala kamo nga napalakat namon ang tawo nga ini tungod sa amon gahom kag pagkadiosnon?
Ang Dios sang aton mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, si Isaac, kag si Jacob amo ang naghimo sini para padunggan niya ang iya alagad nga si Jesus. Amo ini ang Jesus nga inyo gintugyan sa mga may awtoridad kag inyo ginsikway sa atubangan ni Pilato, bisan nadesisyunan na niya nga buy-an siya.
Balaan siya kag matarong, pero ginsikway ninyo siya kag ginpangayo kay Pilato nga buy-an ang manugpatay nga tawo sa baylo niya.
Ginpatay ninyo ang nagahatag sang kabuhi, pero ginbanhaw siya sang Dios. Kag makapamatuod kami nga nabanhaw siya.
Ang pagtuo sa kay Jesus
“Mga kauturan, nahibaluan ko nga kamo kag ang inyo mga pangulo naghimo sini kay Jesus tungod nga wala kamo nakahibalo kon sin-o gid siya.
Ginpahayag na sang Dios sang una paagi sa mga propeta nga si Cristo kinahanglan gid nga mag-antos, kag sa inyo ginhimo sa iya, natuman ang ginhambal sang Dios.
Gani karon, kinahanglan maghinulsol na kamo kag magpalapit sa Dios, para patawaron niya ang inyo mga sala,
kag magaabot sa inyo ang bag-o nga kusog halin sa Ginoo. Pagkatapos ipadala niya si Jesus nga amo ang Cristo nga iya na nga daan ginpili para sa inyo.
Pero kinahanglan didto lang anay si Jesus sa langit hasta mag-abot ang tion nga bag-uhon sang Dios ang tanan nga butang. Amo man ina ang ginsiling sang Dios sang una paagi sa iya pinili nga mga propeta.
Pareho sang ginsiling ni Moises, ‘Magapadala sa inyo ang Ginoo nga inyo Dios sang isa ka propeta nga pareho sa akon, nga kadugo ninyo. Kinahanglan nga pamatian ninyo ang tanan nga ginasiling niya sa inyo.
Ang indi magpamati sa ginasiling sang sini nga propeta pagapainon halin sa katawhan sang Dios kag pagalaglagon.’
Pareho man sina ang ginsiling sang tanan nga propeta umpisa kay Samuel. Sila tanan nagpropesiya sang mga butang nga nagakalatabo subong.
Ang mga ginpromisa sang Dios paagi sa iya mga propeta para gid sa aton nga mga Judio, kag lakip kita sa kasugtanan nga ginhimo sang Dios sa aton mga katigulangan, tungod nga nagsiling siya kay Abraham, ‘Paagi sa imo kaliwat,
Gani ginsugo sang Dios ang iya pinili nga Alagad, una anay sa aton nga mga Judio, para pakamaayuhon kita paagi sa pagbiya sa aton mga kalautan.”
Samtang nagahambal pa si Pedro kag si Juan sa mga tawo, ginpalapitan sila sang mga pari, sang opisyal sang mga guwardya sa templo, kag sang mga Saduceo.
Naakig sila tungod nga nagapanudlo ining duha nga si Jesus nabanhaw, kag ini nagapamatuod nga may pagkabanhaw.
Gani gindakop nila si Pedro kag si Juan. Kuntani imbistigaron nila ang duha, Kuntani imbistigaron nila ang duha, pero tungod nga sirom na, ginsulod lang anay nila sila sa prisohan hasta mag-aga.
Pero bisan amo ini ang natabo sa ila, bisan amo ini ang natabo sa ila, madamo sa mga nakabati sang ila pagpanudlo ang nagtuo. Ang mga lalaki lang nga nagtuo mga 5,000.
Pagkaaga, nagtilipon sa Jerusalem ang mga manugdumala nga mga pari, ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan.
Didto man si Anas nga pangulo nga pari, si Caifas, si Juan, si Alexander, kag ang iban pa nga mga miyembro sang pamilya ni Anas.
Gindala sa ila si Pedro kag si Juan kag ginpamangkot, “Sa ano nga gahom kag kay sin-o awtoridad
Si Pedro nga gin-gamhan sang Espiritu Santo nagsabat, “Kamo nga mga pangulo kag mga manugdumala sang mga Judio,
kon ginausisa ninyo kami parte sa pag-ayo sang tawo nga lupog,
dapat mahibaluan ninyo tanan kag sang tanan nga taga-Israel, nga gin-ayo ang tawo nga ini nga nagatindog diri subong paagi sa ngalan
“ ‘Ang bato nga ginsikway ninyo nga mga panday amo ang nangin pundasyon nga bato.’
Wala na sing iban sa bilog nga kalibutan nga makaluwas sa aton kundi si Jesus lang.”
Natingala sila kay Pedro kag kay Juan nga wala gid sila nahadlok sa pagsugid, kay nahibaluan nila nga sila mga ordinaryo lang nga mga tawo kag wala sing mataas nga tinun-an. Dayon natalupangdan nila nga ini sila mga kaupod ni Jesus sang una.
Gusto nila nga maghambal kontra sa milagro nga ginhimo nila ni Pedro, pero tungod nga ang tawo nga gin-ayo nagatindog sa tupad ni Pedro kag ni Juan, naghipos na lang sila.
Gani ginpaguwa nila anay si Pedro kag si Juan sa Korte sang mga Judio kag naghambalanay sila.
Siling nila, “Ano bala ang aton himuon sa mga tawo nga ini? Kay bantog na sa bilog nga Jerusalem nga nakahimo sila sang milagro, kag indi kita makasiling nga butig ini.
Gani para indi na maglapnag ang ila pagpanudlo sa mga tawo, paandaman ta sila nga indi na gid magtudlo parte kay Jesus.”
Dayon ginpatawag nila si Pedro kag si Juan kag ginsilingan nga indi na gid sila maghambal ukon magpanudlo parte kay Jesus.
Pero nagsabat si Pedro kag si Juan sa ila, “Abi hunahunaa ninyo sing maayo kon diin sini ang matarong sa panulok sang Dios: ang pagtuman sa inyo ukon ang pagtuman sa Dios?
Indi mahimo nga indi kami magsugid parte sa amon nakita kag nabatian.”
Pero ginpaandaman gihapon sila nga indi na gid magpanugid, kag pagkatapos ginbuy-an sila. Bisan gusto nila kuntani nga sakiton ang duha, indi nila ini mahimo tungod nga nahadlok sila sa mga tawo, kay ang mga tawo nagadayaw sa Dios tungod sa milagro nga natabo.
Kay ang tawo nga gin-ayo paagi sa milagro sobra 40 ka tuig nga siya lupog nga siya lupog .
Sang nabuy-an na si Pedro kag si Juan, nagbalik sila sa ila mga kaupod, kag ginsugid nila sa ila kon ano ang ginsiling sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio.
Pagkabati sadto sang mga tumuluo nagpangamuyo sila sa Dios, “Ginoo nga makagagahom sa tanan, ikaw ang naghimo sang kalangitan, sang duta, sang dagat, kag sang tanan nga ara sa ila.
Kag ngaa nagaplano ang mga Judio
kontra sa Ginoo kag sa hari nga iya ginpili.’
Matuod nga natuman na subong ang imo ginhambal sang una tungod nga diri mismo sa Jerusalem ang mga indi Judio kag ang katawhan sang Israel, pati si Herodes nga hari nga hari kag si Poncio Pilato nga gobernador nga gobernador , nagsugtanay nga kontrahon ang imo balaan nga alagad nga si Jesus nga imo ginpili nga mangin Hari.
Sa ila ginhimo natuman na ang imo plano sang una. Kag ini natabo suno sa imo gahom kag kabubut-on.
Kag karon, Ginoo, ginapahog nila kami. Buligi kami nga imo mga alagad nga magmaisog sa pagwali sang imo pulong.
Ipakita ang imo gahom. Itugot nga paagi sa ngalan
Pagkatapos nila pangamuyo, nag-uyog ang balay nga ila ginatipunan. Gin-gamhan sila tanan sang Espiritu Santo kag nangisog sa pagwali sang pulong sang Dios.
Tanan nga tumuluo isa lang sa panghunahuna kag balatyagon. Ang kada isa sa ila wala nagkabig nga ang iya mga pagkabutang iya gid lang, kundi para sa tanan.
Grabe nga mga milagro ang ginhimo sang mga apostoles sa ila pagpamatuod nga si Ginoong Jesus nabanhaw. Kag dako gid ang bulig sang Dios sa tanan nga tumuluo.
Wala sing may nawad-an sa ila kinahanglanon tungod kay may mga tumuluo nga nagpamaligya sang ila mga duta kag mga balay,
kag ginhatag nila ang bili sa mga apostoles. Dayon ginpanagtag ini sang mga apostoles sa kada isa suno sa iya kinahanglanon.
Amo man ini ang ginhimo ni Jose nga taga-Cyprus, nga kaliwat ni Levi. Ginatawag siya sang mga apostoles nga si Barnabas, nga kon sayuron “Manugpabakod.”
Ginbaligya ni Jose ang iya duta kag ginhatag niya ang bili sa mga apostoles.
May ara nga mag-asawa nga nagbaligya man sang ila duta. Ang ngalan sang bana si Ananias, kag ang iya asawa si Safira.
Pero gintago ni Ananias ang iban nga kantidad sang bili sang duta para sa ila kaugalingon. Ang iya asawa nagsugot man. Kag ginhatag niya ang nabilin nga kantidad sa mga apostoles.
Dayon nagpamangkot si Pedro, “Ananias, ngaa nagpadaog ka kay Satanas? Nagabutig ka sa Espiritu Santo tungod nga ang iban nga kuwarta nga bili sang imo duta gintago mo!
Indi bala nga sa wala mo pa mabaligya ang imo duta ikaw ang tag-iya sina? Kag sang nabaligya mo na ina indi bala ara sa imo pagbuot kon anhon mo ang kuwarta? Ngaa bala naghunahuna pa gid ikaw sa paghimo sini? Wala lang ikaw nagbutig sa tawo kundi labi na gid sa Dios.”
Pagkaligad sang mga tatlo ka oras, nagsulod ang asawa ni Ananias. Wala siya kahibalo kon ano ang natabo sa iya bana.
Ginpamangkot siya ni Pedro, “Sugiri ako sang matuod, amo gid bala ini tanan ang kantidad nga inyo nabaton sa inyo ginbaligya nga duta?” Nagsabat si Safira, “Huo, amo gid ina tanan ang amon nabaton.”
Gani nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Ngaa nagsugtanay kamo nga mag-asawa nga tilawan ang Espiritu sang Ginoo? Tan-awa, ara na sa puwertahan ang mga pamatan-on nga naglubong sang imo bana, kag ikaw ila man nga tuwangan kag ilubong kag ilubong .”
Hinali lang natumba si Safira sa atubangan ni Pedro kag napatay. Pagsulod sang mga pamatan-on nakita nila nga patay na si Safira. Gani gintuwangan nila siya paguwa kag ginlubong sa tupad sang iya bana.
Tungod sa mga natabo nga ato, dako gid ang kahadlok sang bilog nga iglesya kag sang tanan nga nakabati sini.
Madamo nga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang ang ginhimo sang mga apostoles sa mga tawo. Nagatipon permi ang tanan nga tumuluo didto sa Balkon ni Solomon.
Bisan tuod nga ginatahod sila sang mga tawo, ang iban wala nangisog sa pagsimpon sa ila.
Nagdugang pa gid ang mga tumuluo sang Ginoo, mga lalaki kag mga babayi.
Tungod sa mga milagro nga ginpanghimo sang mga apostoles, gindala sang mga tawo ang ila mga masakiton sa higad sang mga dalan kag ginbutang nila sa mga hiligdaan, para kon mag-agi si Pedro maagyan sila bisan sang iya landong na lang.
Indi lang ina, kundi madamo man nga mga tawo sa mga baryo sa palibot ang nag-abot sa Jerusalem nga nagadala sang mga masakiton kag mga tawo nga ginagamhan sang mahigko nga mga espiritu. Kag nag-alayo sila tanan.
Nahisa gid ang pangulo nga pari kag ang iya mga kaupod nga mga miyembro sang sekta nga Saduceo.
Gani gindakop nila ang mga apostoles kag ginsulod sa prisohan.
Pero pagkagab-i, ginbuksan sang anghel sang Ginoo ang puwertahan sang prisohan kag ginpaguwa niya sila. Nagsiling ang anghel sa ila,
“Magkadto kamo sa templo kag tudluan ninyo ang mga tawo parte sa bag-o nga kabuhi nga ginahatag sang Dios.”
Karon, ginpatawag sang pangulo nga pari kag sang iya mga kaupod ang tanan nga manugdumala sang Israel para mag-meeting ang bilog nga Korte sang mga Judio. May ginsugo man sila nga magkadto sa prisohan para kuhaon ang mga apostoles kag dal-on didto sa ila.
Pero pag-abot sang mga ginsugo didto sa prisohan, wala na didto ang mga apostoles. Gani nagbalik sila sa Korte sang mga Judio
kag nagpanugid, “Pag-abot namon sa prisohan nakita namon nga may mga kandado pa ang mga puwertahan, kag ang mga guwardya didto pa sa mga puwertahan nga nagabantay. Pero pagbukas namon sang prisohan wala kami sing may nakita nga tawo sa sulod.”
Pagkabati sadto sang opisyal sang mga guwardya sa templo kag sang manugdumala nga mga pari, naglibog ang ila ulo kag indi nila maintiendihan kon ano ang natabo sa mga apostoles.
Sang ulihi may isa ka tawo nga nag-abot kag nagsugid, “Ang mga tawo nga inyo ginsulod sa prisohan didto na sa templo kag nagapanudlo sa mga tawo.”
Dayon nagkadto sa templo ang opisyal sang mga guwardya kag ang iya mga tinawo kag gindakop nila liwat ang mga apostoles, pero wala nila sila pagpuwersaha tungod nga nahadlok sila basi kon batuhon sila sang mga tawo.
Gindala nila ang mga apostoles didto sa Korte sang mga Judio. Nagsiling ang pangulo nga pari sa ila,
“Indi bala nga ginmanduan namon kamo nga indi kamo magtudlo parte kay Jesus? Pero tan-awa ninyo ang inyo ginhimo! Naglapnag na ang inyo pagpanudlo sa bilog nga Jerusalem, kag kami pa ang inyo ginapasibangdan nga nagpatay sa iya!”
Nagsabat si Pedro kag ang iya mga kaupod, “Ang Dios ang dapat namon tumanon, kag indi ang mga tawo.
Ginpatay ninyo si Jesus paagi sa paglansang sa iya sa krus. Pero ginbanhaw siya sang Dios, ang Dios nga ginsimba sang aton mga katigulangan.
Ginbayaw sang Dios si Jesus, kag didto na siya sa iya tuo bilang Pangulo kag Manluluwas, para kita nga mga Israelinhon mahatagan sang kahigayunan nga maghinulsol para mapatawad ang aton mga sala.
Nagapamatuod kami nga ini tanan matuod gid. Kag ang Espiritu Santo nga ginhatag sang Dios sa tanan nga nagatuman sa iya nagapamatuod man sa sini nga mga butang.”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio, nangakig gid sila kag gusto nila nga patyon ang mga apostoles.
Pero nagtindog ang ila kaupod nga si Gamaliel. Ini nga tawo Pariseo kag manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Ginatahod siya sang tanan. Nagsugo siya nga paguwaon anay ang mga apostoles.
Dayon naghambal si Gamaliel sa iya mga kaupod, “Mga kasimanwa ko nga mga kasimanwa ko nga mga Israelinhon, hunahunaa ninyo anay sing maayo kon ano ang inyo himuon sa sini nga mga tawo.
Kay sang una may tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Teudas nga nagapabugal nga daw si sin-o gid siya, kag may mga 400 ka tawo nga nagsunod sa iya. Pero sang ulihi ginpatay siya, kag ang iya mga sumulunod naglalapta, kag nadula man lang ato nga grupo.
Pagkatapos sini, sang tion sang pag-census sa mga tawo, si Judas naman nga taga-Galilea nakatipon sang mga tawo nga nagsunod sa iya. Pero ginpatay man siya kag naglalapta man ang iya mga sumulunod.
Gani ang akon mahambal sa inyo amo ini: pabay-i lang ini nga mga tawo, kag indi sila pagsapaka. Kay kon ang ila mga ginahimo kag ginatudlo halin lang sa tawo, madula man lang ina.
Pero kon ina halin sa Dios, indi ta sila mapunggan. Indi lang ina, kundi basi kon magguwa pa nga ang Dios na gid ang aton kontra.” Nakombinsi ang Korte sa laygay ni Gamaliel.
Ginpatawag nila liwat ang mga apostoles kag ginpahanot. Pagkatapos ginmanduan nila sila nga indi na gid magpanudlo sa ngalan ni Jesus kag ginbuy-an dayon sila.
Naghalin didto ang mga apostoles nga may dako nga kalipay, tungod nga ginhatagan sila sang Dios sang pribilehiyo nga mag-antos para sa ngalan ni Jesus ni Jesus .
Adlaw-adlaw nagakadto sila sa templo kag sa mga balay, kag sige ang ila panudlo kag pagwali sang Maayong Balita parte kay Jesus nga siya amo ang Cristo.
Sang sadto nga panahon, nagadamo na gid ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus . Karon, nagreklamo ang mga Judio nga ang ila lingguahe Griego kontra sa mga Judio nga ang ila lingguahe Hebreo, tungod kay wala mahatagi sing adlaw-adlaw nga rasyon ang ila mga balo nga babayi.
Gani gintawag sang dose ka apostoles ang tanan nga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus . Dayon nagsiling sila, “Indi maayo nga pabay-an namon ang pagwali sang pulong sang Dios para mag-atipan lang sang materyal nga mga bulig.
Gani, mga kauturan, magpili kamo halin sa inyo mga kaupod sang pito ka lalaki nga napamatud-an nga may maayo nga reputasyon, maalamon, kag ginagamhan sang Espiritu Santo Santo . Sila amo ang aton padumalahon sining mga materyal nga mga bulig.
Kag kami naman ya, gamiton namon ang amon tiyempo sa pagpangamuyo kag sa pagwali sang pulong sang Dios.”
Komporme ang tanan nga tumuluo sa ginsiling sang mga apostoles. Gani ginpili nila si Esteban nga isa ka tawo nga hugot ang iya pagtuo kay Jesus kag ginagamhan sang Espiritu Santo. Napilian man nila si Felipe, si Procorus, si Nicanor, si Timon, si Parmenas, kag si Nicolas nga taga-Antioc. Si Nicolas nga ini indi Judio, pero nagsaylo sa relihiyon sang mga Judio.
Gindala nila ining mga napilian sa mga apostoles. Kag nagpangamuyo ang mga apostoles kag nagtungtong sang ila mga kamot sa ila.
Gani padayon nga naglapnag ang pulong sang Dios. Madamo pa gid nga mga taga-Jerusalem ang nangin sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus , kag madamo man nga mga pari ang nagtuo sa iya sa iya .
Ginbugayan sang Dios sang Dios si Esteban sang dako gid nga gahom. Gani madamo nga milagro kag makatilingala nga butang ang iya ginhimo nga nakita sang mga tawo.
Pero may mga tawo nga nagkontra kay Esteban. Ini nga mga tawo mga Judio nga halin sa Cyrene, sa Alexandria, sa Cilicia, kag sa Asia. Mga miyembro sila sang simbahan sang mga Judio nga kon tawgon Simbahan sang mga Ginhilway sa Pagkaulipon. Padayon ang ila pagpakigbais kay Esteban.
Pero tungod nga si Esteban ginhatagan sang kaalam sang Espiritu Santo Santo , indi gid sila makadaog sa iya.
Sa sini nga paagi ginsutsot nila ang mga tawo, ang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio, kag ang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan. Gindakop nila si Esteban kag gindala sa Korte sang mga Judio.
May ginpasulod man sila nga pila ka tawo sa pagtestigo sang butig kontra kay Esteban. Nagsiling sila, “Ini nga tawo permi gid nagahambal kontra sa aton sagrado nga templo kag sa Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises .
Nabatian namon siya nga nagasiling nga ang aton templo gub-on ni Jesus nga taga-Nazaret kag ilisan niya ang mga kinabatasan nga ginbilin sa aton ni Moises!”
Ang tanan nga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio naghimutad gid kay Esteban, kag nakita nila ang iya guya nga daw guya sang anghel.
Karon, nagpamangkot ang pangulo nga pari kay Esteban, “Ano, matuod bala ang ginasugid sang sini nga mga tawo?”
Nagsiling si Esteban, “Mga kauturan kag mga ginikanan, pamatii ninyo ako. Sang una nga tiyempo, nagpakita ang Dios nga makagagahom sa aton katigulangan nga si Abraham sang didto pa siya sa Mesopotamia, sa wala pa siya magsaylo sa Haran.
Nagsiling ang Dios kay Abraham, ‘Bayai ang imo nasyon kag mga paryente, kag magkadto ka sa lugar nga akon itudlo sa imo.’
Gani naghalin si Abraham sa lugar sang mga Kaldeanhon kag didto siya nag-estar sa Haran. Pagkapatay sang iya amay, ginpakadto siya sang Dios sa lugar nga aton ginaestaran subong.
Sa sadto nga tiyempo wala pa si Abraham paghatagi sang Dios sang bisan diutay lang nga duta. Pero nagpromisa ang Dios nga ang ini nga lugar ihatag niya sa iya kag sa iya mga kaliwat. Wala pa sing anak si Abraham sang pagpromisa sang Dios sadto.
Nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, ‘Ang imo mga kaliwat mangin pangayaw sa iban nga lugar. Mangin ulipon sila didto kag pintasan sa sulod sang 400 ka tuig.
Pero silutan ko ang nasyon nga magaulipon sa ila. Pagkatapos magahalin sila sa sadto nga nasyon kag magabalik sa sini nga lugar kag diri sila magasimba sa akon.’
Dayon nagsugo ang Dios kay Abraham nga ang tanan nga lalaki dapat tulion bilang tanda sang kasugtanan. Gani pagkatawo sang iya bata nga si Isaac, gintuli niya siya sang walo pa lang siya ka adlaw. Amo man ini ang ginhimo ni Isaac kay Jacob nga iya anak. Kag si Jacob naghimo man sini sa dose niya ka anak nga sa diin kita nga mga Judio naghalin.
“Si Jose nga isa sa dose ka anak ni Jacob ginhisaan sang iya mga utod, gani ginbaligya nila siya. Dayon gindala siya sa Egypt kag nangin ulipon didto. Pero tungod nga ang Dios kaupod ni Jose,
ginbuligan niya siya sa tanan nga pag-antos nga iya gin-agyan. Ginhatagan man siya sang Dios sang kaalam, gani naluyagan siya sang Faraon, ang hari sang Egypt. Ginhimo siya sang hari nga pangulo sa bilog nga bilog nga Egypt kag sa tanan niya nga propedad.
Sang ulihi nag-abot ang gutom sa bilog nga Egypt kag sa Canaan. Nag-antos gid ang mga tawo, kag ang aton mga katigulangan wala gid sing may makuhaan sang pagkaon.
Gani pagkabati ni Jacob nga may pagkaon didto sa Egypt, ginpakadto niya didto ang iya mga anak, nga amo ang iya mga anak, nga amo ang aton mga katigulangan. Amo ato ang nahauna nila nga pagkadto sa Egypt.
Sang ikaduha na nila nga pagkadto didto, nagpakilala sa ila si Jose nga siya ila utod, kag ginsugid man niya sa Faraon ang parte sa iya pamilya.
Dayon nagtugon si Jose nga pakadtuon ang iya amay nga si Jacob sa Egypt upod sa bilog niya nga pamilya. (Mga 75 sila tanan.)
Gani nagkadto si Jacob kag ang aton mga katigulangan sa Egypt, kag didto sila nag-estar hasta nagkalamatay sila.
Gindala ang ila mga tul-an
“Karon, sang malapit na matuman ang promisa sang Dios kay Abraham, nagdamo pa gid ang aton mga katigulangan didto sa Egypt.
Nag-abot man ang adlaw nga lain na ang hari sa Egypt. Wala siya makakilala kay Jose.
Gindayaan sini nga hari ang aton mga katigulangan kag ginpintasan. Ginpilit niya sila nga ihaboy nila ang ila mga lapsag
Amo man ato ang tion nga natawo si Moises, isa ka bata nga nahamut-an sang Dios. Ginsagod siya sang iya mga ginikanan sa ila balay sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan.
Sang ginbilin na siya sa guwa sang balay, ginkuha siya sang babayi nga bata sang Faraon kag ginsagod bilang iya gid bata.
Gintudluan si Moises sang tanan nga kinaalam sang mga Egyptohanon, kag nangin bantog siya tungod sa iya mga paghambal kag sa iya mga hinimuan.
“Sang si Moises 40 na ka tuig, napinsaran niya nga magbisita sa iya mga kasimanwa nga mga Israelinhon.
Didto nakita niya ang isa sa ila nga ginapintasan sang isa ka Egyptohanon. Gin-apinan niya ang iya kasimanwa nga Israelinhon kag bilang balos ginpatay niya ang Egyptohanon.
Sa ginhimo niya nga ini naghunahuna si Moises nga maintiendihan sang iya kapareho nga mga Israelinhon nga siya amo ang gamiton sang Dios sa paghilway sa ila. Pero wala sila nakaintiendi.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagbalik si Moises kag nakita niya ang duha ka Israelinhon nga nagaaway. Gusto niya nga husayon ang duha, gani naghambal siya sa ila, ‘Pareho kamo nga mga Israelinhon. Ngaa nagaaway kamo?’
Pero gintiklod siya sang isa nga nagapangdaogdaog kag ginsilingan, ‘Sin-o ang naghimo sa imo nga pangulo kag manughukom namon?
Ano, patyon mo man bala ako pareho sa ginhimo mo sa Egyptohanon kahapon?’
Pagkabati sadto ni Moises nagpalagyo siya halin sa Egypt kag nagkadto sa duta sang Midian. Didto siya nag-estar kag nagpangasawa, kag didto man natawo ang iya duha ka anak nga lalaki.
“Pagkaligad sang 40 ka tuig, may isa ka anghel nga nagpakita kay Moises sang didto siya sa kamingawan nga malapit sa Bukid sang Sinai. Nakita ni Moises ang anghel sa nagadabadaba nga kahoy-kahoy.
Natingala gid si Moises sa iya nakita, gani ginpalapitan niya ang kahoy-kahoy para tan-awon kon ano ato. Sang nagapalapit na siya, nabatian niya ang tingog sang Ginoo nga nagahambal sa iya,
‘Ako ang Dios sang imo mga katigulangan nga si Abraham, si Isaac, kag si Jacob.’
Dayon nagsiling ang Ginoo sa iya, ‘Ubaha ang imo sandalyas, kay balaan ang lugar nga imo ginatindugan.
Nakita ko gid ang pag-antos sang akon katawhan sa Egypt, kag nabatian ko man ang ila mga paghibi. Gani nagpanaog ako sa pagluwas sa ila. Karon magpreparar ka, kay ikaw ang akon ipadala didto sa Egypt.’
“Amo ini ang Moises nga ginsikway sadto sang iya mga kapareho nga Israelinhon nga nagasiling, ‘Sin-o ang naghimo sa imo nga pangulo kag manughukom namon namon ?’ Amo man ini ang Moises nga ginpadala sang Dios nga mangin pangulo kag manughilway sa mga Israelinhon paagi sa bulig sang anghel nga iya nakita didto sa nagadabadaba nga kahoy-kahoy.
Si Moises amo ang nagdala sang mga Israelinhon paguwa sa duta sang Egypt. Naghimo siya sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang sa Egypt, sa Mapula nga Dagat, kag sa kamingawan nga ila gin-agyan sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
Amo man ini ang Moises nga nagsiling sa mga Israelinhon, ‘Magapadala sa inyo ang Dios sang isa ka propeta nga pareho sa akon, nga kadugo ninyo.’
Sang didto na ang aton mga katigulangan sa kamingawan, si Moises man ang nagpatunga sa mga tawo kag sa anghel nga nagpakighambal sa iya sa Bukid sang Sinai; kag didto siya nagbaton sang pulong sang Dios nga nagahatag sang kabuhi para ihatag man sa aton.
“Pero ang aton mga katigulangan wala nagtuman sa ginpahimo ni Moises sa ila. Ginsikway nila si Moises bilang ila pangulo, kay gusto nila nga magbalik sa Egypt.
Naghambal sila kay Aaron, ‘Himui kami sang mga dios nga magapanguna sa amon, tungod nga wala kita kahibalo kon ano na ang natabo sining tawo nga si Moises nga nagpaguwa sa aton sa duta sang Egypt.’
Dayon naghimo sila sang dios-dios sa dagway sang bataon nga baka. Naghalad sila sa sini nga dios-dios, kag nagpiesta sila sa kadungganan sang ila ginhimo.
Gani ipabihag ko kamo sa unhan pa sang Babilonia.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid si Esteban, Nagsiling pa gid si Esteban, “Sang didto pa ang aton mga katigulangan sa kamingawan, ara sa ila ang Tolda nga Simbahan nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan. Ginhimo ang ini nga tolda suno sa sugo sang Dios kay Moises, suno sa desinyo nga ginpakita sa iya.
Sang ulihi, sang napatay na ang aton mga katigulangan, ang ila mga anak naman amo ang nagdala sang tolda. Ang ila pangulo amo si Josue. Naangkon nila ang mga duta nga ginpromisa sang Dios nga ginpromisa sang Dios sa tapos nga matabog sang Dios ang mga katawhan nga nagaestar sa sadto nga mga lugar. Kag nagpabilin didto ang tolda nga gindala sang mga Israelinhon hasta sa tiyempo nga si David nangin hari.
Nalipay gid ang Dios kay David kag ginpangayo niya sa Dios sa Dios nga tugutan siya nga magpatindog sang balay para simbahan sang simbahan sang mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
Pero si Solomon amo ang nagpatindog sang templo para sa Dios.
“Ugaling ang Labing Mataas nga Dios wala nagaestar sa mga balay nga ginhimo sang tawo. Pareho sang ginsiling sang Dios paagi sa isa ka Dios paagi sa isa ka propeta,
Diin bala ang lugar nga inyo papahuwayan sa akon?
Indi bala ako ang naghimo sang tanan nga butang?’ ”
Nagsiling dayon si Esteban, Nagsiling dayon si Esteban, “Matig-a gid ang inyo mga ulo! Nagapabungol lang kamo sa mga mensahi sang Dios, kay indi ninyo gusto nga magtuman sang iya mga ginasiling sa inyo. Permi lang ninyo ginakontra ang Espiritu Santo. Pareho gid kamo sang inyo mga katigulangan.
Wala gid sing propeta sa ila tiyempo nga wala nila ginhingabot. Ang mga nagsugid parte sa pag-abot sang Matarong nga Alagad nga Alagad
Nagbaton kamo sang Kasuguan nga ginhatag sang Dios paagi sa mga anghel, pero wala ninyo pagtumana.”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga miyembro sang Korte, nangakig gid sila kay Esteban. Nagbagrot gid ang ila mga ngipon sa puwerte nga kaakig.
Pero si Esteban nga ginagamhan sang Espiritu Santo nagtangla sa langit, kag nakita niya ang gahom sang Dios nga nagasilak kag si Jesus nga nagatindog sa tuo sang Dios.
Pagkakita niya sadto nagsiling siya, “Tan-awa ninyo! Nakita ko nga abri ang langit kag si Jesus nga Anak sang Tawo nagatindog sa tuo sang Dios!”
Nagsinggit ang mga miyembro sang Korte kag gintakpan nila ang ila mga dulunggan. Kag nagdinaguso sila pakadto sa iya.
Gindala nila si Esteban paguwa sa siyudad kag ginbato. Ginhukas sang mga nagsaksi kontra kay Esteban ang ila mga pangtabon nga panapton
Sang ginabato nila si Esteban, nagapangamuyo siya. Siling niya, “Ginoong Jesus, batuna ang akon espiritu.”
Dayon nagluhod siya kag nagsinggit sing mabaskog, “Ginoo, indi sila pagsukta sang sini nga sala nga ila ginahimo.” Pagkahambal niya sini, napatay siya dayon.
Halin sadto, nagsugod ang dako nga paghingabot sa iglesya sa Jerusalem. Gani naglalapta ang mga tumuluo sa bilog nga Judea kag Samaria. Ang mga apostoles lang ang wala naghalin sa Jerusalem.
Ginlubong si Esteban sang diosnon nga mga tawo, kag ginhibian gid nila siya.
Pero si Saulo nagsugod sa paglaglag sa iglesya. Ginpamalaybalay niya ang mga tumuluo ang mga tumuluo kag ginpapriso, lalaki ukon babayi man.
Naglalapta ang mga tumuluo kag ginwali nila ang Maayong Balita.
Isa sang mga tumuluo amo si Felipe. Nagkadto siya sa isa ka siyudad sa Samaria kag nagwali sa mga tawo parte kay Cristo.
Pagkabati sang mga tawo sang mga ginhambal ni Felipe, kag pagkakita nila sang mga milagro nga iya ginhimo, nagpamati gid sila.
Madamo nga tawo nga ginagamhan sang mahigko nga mga espiritu ang gin-ayo niya. Nagsinggit sing mabaskog ang mga espiritu samtang nagaguwa sila sa mga tawo. Madamo man nga mga paralitiko kag mga piang ang nag-alayo.
Gani dako gid ang kalipay sang mga tawo sa sadto nga siyudad.
May tawo man didto nga ang iya ngalan si Simon. Dugay na nga natingala gid sa iya ang katawhan sa Samaria tungod sang iya abilidad sa madyik. Nagapabugal siya nga daw si sin-o gid siya.
Ang tanan nga tawo sa siyudad, imol ukon manggaranon man, nagapamati gid sa iya. Nagsiling sila, “Ini nga tawo amo ang gahom sang Dios nga kon tawgon ‘Dako nga Gahom.’ ”
Dugay na niya nga nadala ang mga tawo sa iya abilidad sa madyik, amo gani nga nagpati ang mga tawo sa iya.
Pero sang pagwali ni Felipe sa ila sang Maayong Balita parte sa paghari sang Dios kag parte kay Jesu-Cristo, nagtuo sila kag nagpabautiso, lalaki kag babayi.
Pati si Simon nagtuo man, kag sang nabautisohan na siya, nag-upod siya kay Felipe. Natingala gid siya sa makatilingala nga mga butang kag mga milagro nga ginhimo ni Felipe.
Pagkabati sang mga apostoles sa Jerusalem nga ang mga taga-Samaria nagtuo man sa pulong sang Dios, ginpadala nila didto si Pedro kag si Juan.
Pag-abot nila sa Samaria, nagpangamuyo sila para sa mga tumuluo didto nga mabaton nila ang Espiritu Santo.
Kay bisan nga nabautisohan na sila sa ngalan ni Ginoong Jesus, wala pa gid sila nakabaton sang Espiritu Santo.
Gintungtungan sila ni Pedro kag ni Juan sang ila mga kamot, kag nabaton nila dayon ang Espiritu Santo.
Nakita ni Simon nga sang pagtungtong sang mga apostoles sang ila mga kamot sa mga tumuluo nabaton nila ang Espiritu Santo Santo . Gani gintanyagan niya sing kuwarta si Pedro kag si Juan kag nagsiling,
“Hatagi man ninyo ako sang sina nga gahom, para ang bisan sin-o nga tungtungan ko sang akon mga kamot magabaton man sang Espiritu Santo.”
Pero nagsabat si Pedro sa iya, “Kabay pa nga madula ka kag ang imo kuwarta! Kay nagahunahuna ka nga mabakal mo sang kuwarta ang regalo sang Dios?
Wala ka sing labot ukon parte sa mga ginapahimo sa amon sang Dios tungod nga ang imo tagipusuon indi matarong sa panulok sang Dios.
Gani hinulsuli ang imo malain nga tuyo kag magpangamuyo ka sa Ginoo nga patawaron ka sa imo ginahunahuna nga mahigko.
Tungod nga nakita ko nga nahisa ka gid kag ginagapos ka sang imo kalautan.”
Nagsiling si Simon, “Kon mahimo magpangamuyo man kamo sa Ginoo para sa akon para indi matabo sa akon ang silot nga inyo ginasiling.”
Sa tapos nga nakapamatuod kag nakawali si Pedro kag si Juan sang mensahi sang Ginoo, nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem. Kag nagsugid man sila sang Maayong Balita sa mga baryo nga ila naagyan sa Samaria.
Karon, may anghel sang Ginoo nga naghambal kay Felipe, “Magkadto ka gid dayon sa south, kag usuyon mo ang dalan nga halin sa Jerusalem pakadto sa Gaza.” (Ini nga dalan talagsa na lang ginaagyan.)
Gani naglakat si Felipe, kag didto nakita niya ang tawo nga taga-Ethiopia. Nagapauli siya halin sa Jerusalem sa diin nagsimba siya sa Dios. Mataas ang iya katungdanan tungod nga siya ang ginatugyanan sang manggad sang Candace. (Ang Candace amo ang tawag sa rayna sang Ethiopia.)
Nagasakay siya sa iya karwahe kag nagabasa sang libro ni Propeta Isaias.
Nagsiling ang Espiritu Santo Santo kay Felipe, “Kadtui kag magdungan ka sa iya karwahe.”
Gani nagdalagan si Felipe kag nalambot niya ang karwahe, kag nabatian niya nga nagabasa ang opisyal sang libro ni Propeta Isaias. Ginpamangkot siya ni Felipe kon naintiendihan niya ang iya ginabasa.
Nagsabat ang opisyal, “Indi gani! Kay paano ako makaintiendi kon wala sing may magpaathag sa akon?” Dayon ginpangabay niya si Felipe nga magsakay sa iya karwahe kag magtupad sa iya.
ukon sang karnero nga samtang ginaguntingan wala gid nagatingog.
tungod nga ang iya kabuhi diri sa duta ginkuha.”
Nagsiling ang opisyal kay Felipe, “Palihog sugiri ako kon sin-o ang ginatumod sang propeta—ang iya kaugalingon bala ukon ang iban nga tawo?”
Gani sugod sa sadto nga parte sang Kasulatan, ginsugid sa iya ni Felipe ang Maayong Balita parte kay Jesus.
Sang nagapadayon sila sa dalanon nakaabot sila sa lugar nga may tubig. Nagsiling ang opisyal kay Felipe, “May tubig diri. May kabangdanan pa bala nga indi ako mabautisohan?”
Nagsabat si Felipe sa iya, “Puwede ka na mabautisohan kon ang imo pagtuo hugot gid sa imo tagipusuon.” Nagsiling ang opisyal, “Huo, nagatuo ako nga si Jesu-Cristo amo ang Anak sang Dios.”
Ginpadulog sang opisyal ang karwahe kag naglusong sila nga duha sa tubig kag ginbautisohan siya ni Felipe.
Pagkatakas nila sa tubig, gulpi lang nga gindala si Felipe sang Espiritu sang Ginoo. Wala na siya makita sang opisyal, pero malipayon gid ang opisyal samtang nagapadayon siya sa iya pagpuli.
Sang makamarasmas si Felipe, didto na siya sa lugar sang Azotus.
Padayon pa gid ang pagpamahog ni Saulo sa mga sumulunod sang Ginoo nga pamatyon niya sila. Nagkadto pa siya sa pangulo nga pari
kag nagpangayo sang mga sulat nga magahatag sa iya sang awtoridad kag magapakilala sa iya sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio sa Damascus. Tuyo niya nga pangdakpon kag dal-on pabalik sa Jerusalem ang iya makita didto nga mga sumulunod sang mga sumulunod sang Dalan nga si Jesus nga si Jesus , lalaki ukon babayi man.
Sang malapit na lang si Saulo sa siyudad sang Damascus, may kasanag nga naghalin sa langit nga gulpi lang nagsilak sa iya palibot.
Dayon natumba siya sa duta, kag may tingog siya nga nabatian nga nagasiling, “Saulo, Saulo! Ngaa ginahingabot mo ako?”
Nagsabat si Saulo, “Sir, sin-o ka?” Nagsiling ang tingog, “Ako amo si Jesus nga imo ginahingabot.
Tindog ka kag magkadto sa siyudad, kay didto may masugid sa imo kon ano ang dapat mo nga himuon.”
Wala gid sing may nakatingog sa mga kaupod ni Saulo. Nagtilindog lang sila nga naurungan. Nakabati sila sang tingog, pero wala sila sing may nakita.
Nagtindog si Saulo, pero pagmuklat niya indi na siya makakita. Gani gintuytuyan siya sang iya mga kaupod hasta sa Damascus.
Sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw indi siya makakita, kag wala siya magkaon ukon mag-inom.
Karon, didto sa Damascus may isa ka sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus nga ang iya ngalan si Ananias. Nagpakita sa iya ang Ginoo paagi sa palanan-awon kag nagsiling, “Ananias!” Nagsabat si Ananias, “Ginoo, ari ako.”
Nagsiling ang Ginoo sa iya, “Maglakat ka sa dalan nga ginatawag ‘Matadlong,’ kag didto sa balay ni Judas pangitaon mo ang tawo nga taga-Tarsus nga ang iya ngalan si Saulo. Subong gid nagapangamuyo siya,
kag ginpakita ko sa iya nga ikaw nagsulod kag nagtungtong sang imo kamot sa iya para makakita siya liwat.”
Pero nagsabat si Ananias, “Ginoo, nabatian ko halin sa madamo nga tawo ang parte sa tawo nga ina, kon daw ano siya kapintas sa imo mga katawhan sa Jerusalem.
Nagkadto siya gani diri sa Damascus nga may awtoridad halin sa manugdumala nga mga pari para pangdakpon niya ang tanan nga nagapanawag sa imo.”
Pero nagsiling ang Ginoo kay Ananias, “Lakat ka, kay ginpili ko siya sa pag-alagad sa akon, para ipakilala niya ang akon ngalan sa mga indi Judio kag sa ila mga hari, kag sa mga Israelinhon.
Kag ipakita ko man sa iya ang mga pag-antos nga dapat niya pagaagyan para sa akon.”
Gani ginkadtuan ni Ananias si Saulo sa balay nga iya ginadayunan nga iya ginadayunan , kag gintungtong niya ang iya kamot kay Saulo. Dayon nagsiling siya, “Saulo, utod ko sa Ginoo sa Ginoo , ginsugo ako ni Ginoong Jesus diri sa imo. Siya ang nagpakita sa imo sa dalan sang nagapakadto ka diri. Ginsugo niya ako diri para makakita ka liwat, kag para gamhan ka sang Espiritu Santo.”
Hinali lang nagkalahulog halin sa mga mata ni Saulo ang daw mga himbis sang isda, kag nakakita siya liwat. Dayon nagtindog siya kag nagpabautiso.
Nagtiner si Saulo sing mga pila ka adlaw sa Damascus upod sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus .
Nagkadto siya sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio kag ginwali niya ang parte kay Jesus nga siya amo ang Anak sang Dios.
Natingala gid ang tanan nga nakabati sa iya. Nagsiling sila, “Indi bala nga amo ini ang tawo nga nagahingabot sa mga nagatuo kay Jesus didto sa Jerusalem? Indi bala nagkadto siya gani diri para pangdakpon ang mga nagatuo sa sadto nga ngalan kag dal-on sa manugdumala nga mga pari?”
Nagdugang pa gid ang gahom ni Saulo sa pagwali. Ginpamatud-an niya nga indi gid mahimutig nga si Jesus amo ang Cristo. Kag indi makasabat sa iya ang mga Judio sa Damascus.
Pagkaligad sang pila ka adlaw, nagtipon ang mga Judio kag nagplano nga patyon nila si Saulo.
Adlaw-gab-i ginbantayan nila ang mga puwertahan sang siyudad, kay patyon nila siya. Pero may nakasugid kay Saulo parte sa ila plano.
Gani isa ka gab-i, ginpasulod siya sang iya mga sumulunod sa kaing kag gintunton sa guwa sang pader sang siyudad sang siyudad .
Pag-abot ni Saulo sa Jerusalem, gusto gid niya kuntani nga magpakig-upod sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus , pero nahadlok sila sa iya. Indi sila magpati nga siya sumulunod na ni Jesus ni Jesus .
Pero ginbuligan siya ni Barnabas. Gindala niya siya sa mga apostoles kag ginpakilala kag ginpakilala . Ginsugid ni Barnabas sa ila kon paano nakita ni Saulo ang Ginoo sa dalan kag kon ano ang ginhambal sa iya. Kag ginsugid man niya ang kaisog ni Saulo sa pagwali parte kay Jesus
Gani halin sadto nangin kaupod na nila si Saulo, kag bisan diin sa Jerusalem wala nahadlok si Saulo sa pagwali parte sa Ginoo.
Naghambal man siya kag nagpakigbais sa mga Judio nga ang ila lingguahe Griego, pero nangakig sila kag nagplano nga patyon siya.
Pagkahibalo sang mga tumuluo sang amo nga plano, gindul-ong nila si Saulo sa Cesarea kag ginpapuli sa Tarsus.
Pagkatapos sadto, nangin malinong ang pagpangabuhi sang iglesya sa bilog nga Judea, sa Galilea, kag sa Samaria. Nagbakod pa gid ang pagtuo sang mga tumuluo kag nagkabuhi sila nga may pagtahod sa Ginoo; kag tungod nga ginapabaskog sila sang Espiritu Santo, nagdamo pa gid sila.
Karon, madamo nga lugar ang ginakadtuan ni Pedro para magbisita sa mga katawhan sang Dios. Nagkadto man siya sa mga tumuluo sa Lyda.
Didto nakita ni Pedro ang tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Eneas. Paralitiko siya kag wala gid makabangon sa iya hiligdaan sa sulod sang walo ka tuig.
Nagsiling si Pedro sa iya, “Eneas, ginaayo ka ni Jesu-Cristo. Gani magbangon ka kag himusa ang imo hiligdaan.” Dayon nagbangon si Eneas.
Nakita sang tanan nga pumuluyo sang Lyda kag sang Sharon nga maayo na si Eneas, kag nagtuo man sila sa Ginoo.
Karon, sa Jopa may tumuluo nga babayi nga ang iya ngalan si Tabita. (Sa Griego ang iya ngalan Dorcas.
Natabuan man sadto nga nagmasakit ini nga babayi kag napatay. Gintinluan nila ang iya bangkay kag ginhamyang sa ibabaw nga kuwarto.
Ang Jopa indi gid man malayo sa Lyda. Gani pagkabati sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus nga si Pedro didto sa Lyda, ginsugo nila ang duha ka tawo nga pangabayon siya nga magkadto dayon sa Jopa.
Pag-abot nila kay Pedro, Pag-abot nila kay Pedro, nag-upod si Pedro sa ila. Pag-abot nila sa Jopa gindala siya sa ibabaw nga kuwarto. May mga balo didto nga nagahinibi. Ginpakita nila kay Pedro ang mga bayo nga gintahi ni Dorcas sang buhi pa siya.
Dayon ginpaguwa sila tanan ni Pedro sa kuwarto. Nagluhod siya kag nagpangamuyo. Pagkatapos nag-atubang siya sa bangkay kag nagsiling, “Tabita, bangon ka!” Nagmuklat si Tabita, kag pagkakita niya kay Pedro nagpungko siya.
Gin-uyatan siya ni Pedro sa kamot kag ginbuligan nga magtindog. Pagkatapos gintawag niya ang mga balo kag ang iban nga mga katawhan sang Dios didto, kag ginpakita sa ila si Tabita nga buhi na.
Ini nga hitabo nabalitaan sa bilog nga Jopa, kag madamo ang nagtuo kay Ginoo ng Jesus ng Jesus .
Nagtiner pa si Pedro sing mga pila ka adlaw sa Jopa sa balay ni Simon nga manugbulad sang panit.
Didto sa Cesarea may tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Cornelius. Ini nga tawo isa ka kapitan sang Romanhon nga mga soldado sa batalyon nga ginatawag Batalyon Italyano.
Diosnon siya kag ang iya bilog nga pamilya. Madamo ang iya nahatag nga bulig sa imol nga mga Judio, kag permi siya nagapangamuyo sa Dios.
Isa sadto ka adlaw, mga alas tres sang hapon, may nagpakita sa iya nga anghel sang Dios. Klaro gid ang iya pagkakita sa anghel nga nagsulod sa iya balay kag nagtawag sa iya, “Cornelius!”
Pagkakita niya sa anghel hinadlukan siya kag nagsiling, “Ano ang imo kinahanglan?” Nagsiling ang anghel, “Ginpamatian sang Dios ang imo mga pangamuyo kag nalipay siya sa imo bulig sa mga imol. Gani ginadumdom ka sang Dios.
Karon, magsugo ka sang mga tawo sa Jopa kag ipasugat mo si Simon nga ginatawag Pedro.
Didto siya nagadayon kay Simon nga manugbulad sang panit. Ang iya balay ara sa higad sang baybay.”
Sang makahalin na ang anghel, gintawag ni Cornelius ang duha sang iya mga suluguon kag ang isa ka soldado nga isa sang iya mga ginasugo-sugo. Ang soldado nga ini diosnon man nga tawo.
Ginsugiran sila ni Cornelius sang tanan nga natabo, kag pagkatapos ginsugo niya sila pa-Jopa.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, sang manug-abot na sila sa banwa sang Jopa, nagsaka si Pedro sa atop
Gin-gutom si Pedro kag gusto niya nga magkaon. Pero sang ginapreparar pa nila ang pagkaon, may ginpakita sa iya ang Dios.
Nakita niya ang langit nga nagbukas kag may nagapaidalom nga daw habol nga malapad, nga nahigtan sa apat ka corner.
Kag sa sini nga habol nakita niya ang tanan nga klase sang mga sapat—ang mga sapat nga nagalakat, ang mga nagakamang, kag ang mga nagalupad.
Dayon may tingog siya nga nabatian nga nagasiling, “Pedro, magtindog ka! Mag-ihaw ka kag magkaon!”
Nagsabat si Pedro, “Ginoo, indi mahimo, tungod nga halin sadto wala pa gid ako nakakaon sang mga sapat nga pareho sini nga suno sa Kasuguan suno sa Kasuguan mahigko kag ginabawal nga kaunon.”
Nagsiling liwat ang tingog kay Pedro, “Indi pagkabiga nga mahigko ang bisan ano nga butang nga gintinluan na sang Dios.”
Ini nga hitabo tatlo gid ka beses nga ginsulit, kag pagkatapos, ginbatak ato gilayon pa-langit.
Samtang nagalibog ang ulo ni Pedro kag nagahunahuna kon ano ang kahulugan sang iya nakita, nag-abot man ang mga tawo nga ginsugo ni Cornelius. Kay pagkahibalo nila kon diin ang balay ni Simon, nagderetso sila dayon didto; kag pag-abot nila sa puwertahan sang kudal,
nagpanawag sila kag nagpamangkot kon nagadayon didto si Simon nga ginatawag Pedro.
Sang nagapalibog pa si Pedro kon ano ang kahulugan sang iya nakita, nagsiling ang Espiritu Santo Santo sa iya, “May tatlo ka tawo nga nagapangita sa imo.
Magpanaog ka kag mag-upod sa ila. Indi ka magkatahap sa pag-upod sa ila, kay ako amo ang nagsugo sa ila.”
Dayon nagpanaog si Pedro kag nagsiling sa mga tawo, “Ako amo ang inyo ginapangita. Ano ang inyo kinahanglan sa akon?”
Nagsiling sila, “Ginsugo kami diri ni Kapitan Cornelius. Maayo siya nga tawo kag nagasimba sa Dios. Ginatahod siya sang tanan nga Judio. Nagsiling sa iya ang balaan nga anghel sang Dios nga agdahon ka didto sa iya balay para mabatian niya kon ano ang imo ihambal.”
Sang sunod nga adlaw nag-upod si Pedro sa ila. May pila man ka tumuluo sa Jopa nga nag-upod sa iya.
Nag-abot sila sa Cesarea pagkasunod nga adlaw. Nagahulat sa ila si Cornelius kag ang iya mga paryente kag mga abyan nga inagda niya.
Sang pag-abot ni Pedro, ginsugata siya ni Cornelius kag nagluhod sa pagsimba sa iya.
Pero ginpatindog siya ni Pedro kag ginsilingan, “Magtindog ka, kay tawo man lang ako.”
Kag padayon ang ila estorya samtang nagapasulod sila sa balay. Didto sa sulod sang balay nakita ni Pedro nga madamo ang mga tawo nga nagatilipon.
Naghambal si Pedro sa ila, “Nakahibalo kamo nga kami nga mga Judio ginabawalan sang amon relihiyon nga magbisita ukon magpakig-upod sa mga indi Judio. Pero ginpaathag sang Dios sa akon nga indi ko dapat pagkabigon nga mahigko ang bisan sin-o nga tawo.
Gani sang ginpasuguan ninyo ako nga magkadto diri, wala ako nagreklamo. Gani gusto ko karon mahibaluan kon ngaa ginpatawag ninyo ako.”
Nagsabat si Cornelius, “Tatlo na subong ka adlaw ang nagligad sang nagapangamuyo ako diri sa balay, kag pareho man sini nga oras, mga alas tres sang hapon. Sang nagapangamuyo ako, hinali lang nga nagpakita sa akon ang tawo nga may masilaw nga bayo.
Dayon naghambal siya sa akon, ‘Cornelius, ginpamatian sang Dios ang imo pangamuyo kag ginadumdom niya ang imo bulig sa mga imol.
Karon, magsugo ka sang mga tawo nga magkadto sa Jopa kag ipasugat si Simon nga ginatawag Pedro. Didto siya nagadayon sa balay ni Simon nga manugbulad sang panit. Ang iya balay sa higad sang baybay.’
Gani ginpatawag ko ikaw dayon, kag salamat kay nag-abot ka. Ari na kami tanan sa presensya sang Dios para magpamati kon ano ang ginsugo sang Ginoo sa imo nga isugid sa amon.”
Gani naghambal si Pedro, “Karon nareyalisar ko nga matuod gid man nga wala pinilian ang Dios.
Ginabaton niya ang tawo sa bisan diin nga nasyon kon nagakahadlok ini sa Dios kag husto ang iya ginahimo.
Nabatian ninyo ang Maayong Balita nga ginsugid sang Dios sa amon nga mga Israelinhon, nga ang tawo makaangkon na sang maayo nga relasyon sa iya paagi sa pagtuo kay Jesu-Cristo nga amo ang Ginoo sang tanan.
Kami mismo makapamatuod sang tanan niya nga ginpanghimo tungod nga nakita namon ini sa Jerusalem kag sa iban nga mga banwa sang mga Judio. Ginpatay nila siya paagi sa paglansang sa iya sa krus.
Pero ginbanhaw siya sang Dios sa ikatlo nga adlaw kag ginpakita sa amon nga siya buhi.
Wala siya ginpakita sa tanan kundi sa amon lang nga mga pinili sang Dios nga mga saksi para ibalita sa iban ang parte sa iya. Nag-upod pa gani kami sa iya kaon kag inom pagkatapos nga nabanhaw siya.
Ginsugo niya kami sa pagwali sang Maayong Balita sa mga tawo kag sa pagpamatuod nga siya amo gid ang ginpili sang Dios nga mangin hukom sa mga buhi kag sa mga patay na.
Si Jesu-Cristo amo ang ginsiling sang tanan nga propeta nga ang tanan nga nagatuo sa iya patawaron sa ila mga sala paagi sa iya ngalan.”
Samtang nagawali pa si Pedro, nag-abot ang Espiritu Santo sa tanan nga nagapamati didto.
Ang mga tumuluo nga mga Judio nga nag-upod kay Pedro halin sa Jopa natingala nga ang Dios naghatag man sang Espiritu Santo sa mga indi Judio.
Kay nabatian nila sila nga nagahambal sa nagkalain-lain nga lingguahe nga wala nila natun-i kag nagadayaw sa Dios. Gani nagsiling si Pedro,
“Nabaton na sini nga mga tawo ang Espiritu Santo pareho sa aton bisan indi sila mga Judio bisan indi sila mga Judio . Gani wala na sing makapugong sa ila para mabautisohan sila sa tubig.”
Dayon nagsugo siya sa ila nga magpabautiso sa ngalan ni Jesu-Cristo.
Karon, nabatian sang mga apostoles kag sang mga tumuluo sa Judea nga ang mga indi Judio nagbaton man sang pulong sang Dios.
Gani pagbalik ni Pedro sa Jerusalem, gin-usisa siya sang mga tumuluo nga mga Judio nga nagapati nga ang mga indi Judio kinahanglan magpatuli anay antes sila makaimpon sa ila.
Nagsiling sila kay Pedro, kay Pedro, “Ngaa nagkadto ka didto kag nagkaon pa sa balay sang mga indi Judio nga wala matuli?”
Gani ginpaathag ni Pedro sa ila ang tanan nga natabo sa iya halin gid sa ginsuguran.
Nagsiling siya, “Sang nagapangamuyo ako didto sa banwa sang Jopa may ginpakita sa akon ang Dios. Nakita ko ang daw habol nga malapad nga nagapaidalom halin sa langit. Nahigtan ini sa apat ka corner, kag sa akon tupad nagpundo.
Ginhimutaran ko gid kag nakita ko nga ang iya sulod nagkalain-lain nga klase sang mga sapat—ang mga sapat nga nagalakat pati ang mga maila, ang mga nagakamang, kag ang mga nagalupad.
Dayon nabatian ko ang tingog nga nagasiling sa akon, ‘Pedro, magtindog ka! Mag-ihaw ka kag magkaon!’
Pero nagsabat ako, ‘Ginoo, indi ko ini mahimo tungod nga wala pa gid ako nakakaon sang mga sapat nga pareho sini nga suno sa Kasuguan suno sa Kasuguan mahigko kag ginabawal nga kaunon.’
Pagkatapos naghambal liwat ang tingog halin sa langit, ‘Indi pagkabiga nga mahigko ang bisan ano nga butang nga gintinluan na sang Dios.’
Ini nga hitabo tatlo gid ka beses nga ginsulit, kag pagkatapos ginbatak liwat ato pa-langit.
Sa sadto man nga oras may tatlo ka tawo halin sa Cesarea nga nag-abot didto sa balay nga akon ginadayunan. Ato nga mga tawo ginsugo para pangitaon ako.
Nagsiling sa akon ang Espiritu Santo Santo nga indi ako magkatahap sa pag-upod sa ila. Ining anom ka utod naton kay Cristo nga taga-Jopa naton kay Cristo nga taga-Jopa kaupod ko sa pagkadto sa balay ni Cornelius sa Cesarea.
Pag-abot namon didto ginsugiran kami ni Cornelius nga may nakita siya nga anghel sa sulod sang iya balay, kag nagsiling ang anghel sa iya, ‘Magsugo ka sang mga tawo nga magkadto sa Jopa sa pagsugat kay Simon nga ginatawag Pedro.
Isugid niya sa imo kon paano ka maluwas pati ang imo pamilya.’
Kag sang nagsugod na ako hambal, nag-abot ang Espiritu Santo sa ila pareho man sang iya pag-abot sa aton sang una.
Dayon nadumduman ko ang ginsiling ni Ginoo ng Jesus ng Jesus : ‘Nagpangbautiso si Juan sa tubig, pero pagabautisohan kamo sa Espiritu Santo.’
Gani ang natabo nga ato nagapamatuod nga ang ginhatag sang Dios sa aton nga mga Judio, sang kita nagtuo kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, ginhatag man niya sa mga indi Judio. Gani kon amo ato ang luyag sang Dios, sin-o ako nga magsupak sa iya?”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga tumuluo nga Judio, wala na sila magsagi basol kay Pedro, kundi nagdayaw sila sa Dios. Nagsiling sila, “Kon amo, ginahatag man sang Dios sa mga indi Judio ang kahigayunan nga maghinulsol para makabaton man sila sing kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .”
Halin sang pagkapatay ni Esteban, naglalapta ang mga tumuluo tungod sang paghingabot sa ila. Ang iban sa ila nakalambot sa Fenicia, sa Cyprus, kag sa Antioc. Ginsugid nila ang mensahi bisan diin sila magkadto bisan diin sila magkadto , pero sa mga Judio lang.
Pero ang iban nga mga tumuluo nga taga-Cyprus kag taga-Cyrene nagkadto man sa Antioc kag nagwali sang Maayong Balita parte kay Ginoong Jesus pati sa mga indi Judio.
Ang gahom sang Ginoo ara sa ila kag madamo gid ang nagtuo kag nagliso sa Ginoo.
Ini nga hitabo nabatian sang iglesya sa Jerusalem, gani ginpadala nila si Barnabas didto sa Antioc.
Pag-abot niya didto, nalipay siya kay nakita niya ang mga pagpakamaayo sang Dios sa mga tawo didto. Kag ginlaygayan niya sila tanan nga magmatutom sa Ginoo sa bug-os nila nga tagipusuon.
Si Barnabas nga ini maayo gid nga tawo. Ginagamhan siya sang Espiritu Santo, kag hugot gid ang iya pagtuo sa Dios. Gani madamo didto ang nagtuo sa Ginoo.
Dayon nagkadto si Barnabas sa Tarsus sa pagpangita kay Saulo.
Pagkakita niya kay Saulo, gindala niya siya pabalik sa Antioc. Isa gid ka tuig nga nangin kaupod sila sang iglesya didto kag madamo nga tawo ang ila gintudluan. Ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus sa Antioc amo ang una nga gintawag nga mga Kristohanon.
Sa sadto nga mga inadlaw may mga propeta sa Jerusalem nga nagkadto sa Antioc.
Ang ngalan sang isa sa ila si Agabus. Nagtindog siya kag paagi sa Espiritu Santo Santo nagpropesiya siya nga may isa ka dako nga gutom nga magaabot sa bilog nga kalibutan. (Ini natabo sa panahon nga si Claudius ang Emperador sang Roma.)
Gani nagsugtanay ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus sa Antioc ni Jesus sa Antioc nga ang tagsa-tagsa sa ila magpadala sing bulig sa mga tumuluo sa Judea suno sa ila masarangan.
Ginpadala nila ini paagi kay Barnabas kag kay Saulo para ihatag sa mga nagadumala sa mga tumuluo sa Jerusalem.
Sang sadto nga tiyempo, nagsugod si Haring Herodes
Ginpapatay niya si Santiago nga utod ni Juan paagi sa espada.
Pagkakita niya nga nalipay ang mga Judio tungod sang iya ginhimo, ginpadakop man niya si Pedro. Natabo ini sa tion sang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok.
Ginpapriso niya si Pedro kag ginpaguwardyahan sing bulos-bulos sing bulos-bulos sa apat ka grupo sang mga soldado, nga may apat ka soldado sa kada grupo. Suno sa plano ni Herodes, ang hearing ni Pedro himuon niya sa publiko pagkatapos sang Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Gani ginpaguwardyahan niya si Pedro didto sa prisohan. Pero padayon nga nagpangamuyo sing hugot sa Dios ang iglesya para sa iya.
Sang gab-i nga wala pa mapamatian ang kaso ni Pedro, nagakatulog siya nga ginakadenahan sang duha ka kadena sa tunga sang duha man ka soldado. Kag may mga guwardya pa nga nagabantay sa puwertahan sang prisohan.
Sa hinali lang nagsanag sa sulod sang prisohan kag nagpakita ang isa ka anghel sang Ginoo. Gin-uyog niya ang kilid ni Pedro para pukawon, kag nagsiling siya, “Dali! Bangon ka!” Kag nagkalahukas ang mga kadena nga nagagapos sa iya mga kamot.
Nagsiling ang anghel, “Isuksok ang imo bayo kag sandalyas.” Kag ginsunod ini ni Pedro. Dayon nagsiling ang anghel sa iya, “Isuksok ang imo pangtabon nga panapton kag magsunod sa akon.”
Kag nagsunod siya sa anghel paguwa sa prisohan. Wala kahibalo si Pedro kon bala matuod ang nagakalatabo. Abi niya damgo lang ato.
Gin-agyan lang nila ang nahauna kag ang ikaduha nga mga guwardya. Pag-abot nila sa salsalon nga puwertahan nga nagaatubang sa siyudad, nag-abri lang ini sa iya kaugalingon. Kag nagguwa sila dayon. Pag-agi nila sa isa ka kalye, hinali lang nga ginbayaan siya sang anghel.
Didto lang niya nahibaluan nga indi gali damgo ang natabo sa iya. Nagsiling siya, “Matuod gid nga ginpadala sang Ginoo ang iya anghel kag ginluwas niya ako sa kamot ni Herodes kag sa tanan nga ginahandom sang mga Judio nga matabo sa akon.”
Sang nasapwan niya nga luwas na siya, nagkadto siya sa balay ni Maria nga iloy ni Juan Marcos. Madamo nga tawo ang nagtipon didto kag nagapangamuyo.
Nagpanuktok si Pedro sa guwa nga puwertahan, kag nagpalapit ang suluguon nga si Roda para tan-awon kon sin-o ang nagapanuktok.
Nakilala niya ang tingog ni Pedro kag sa iya kalipay, imbes nga abrihan niya ang puwertahan, nagdalagan siya pasulod para sugiran ang iya mga kaupod nga si Pedro ara sa guwa.
Nagsiling sila kay Roda, “Nagbuang ka na siguro!” Pero nag-insister gid si Roda nga ara gid si Pedro. Gani nagsiling sila, “Basi kon anghel ina ni Pedro.”
Pero sige pa gid ang panuktok ni Pedro. Gani sang ulihi gin-abrihan nila ang puwertahan, kag daw indi sila makapati nga si Pedro gid man gali.
Ginsinyasan sila ni Pedro nga maghipos, kag gin-estorya niya dayon sa ila kon paano siya ginpaguwa sang Ginoo sa prisohan. Ginsilingan niya sila nga sugiran nila si Santiago kag ang iban pa nga mga tumuluo. Dayon naghalin siya kag nagkadto sa iban nga lugar.
Pagkaaga, nagkinagamo ang mga guwardya, kay wala na si Pedro kag wala sila nakahibalo kon ano ang natabo sa iya.
Nagsugo si Herodes nga pangitaon siya, pero wala gid nila makita. Gani ginpaimbistigar niya ang mga guwardya kag ginpapatay niya dayon. Sa tapos sadto, naghalin si Herodes sa Judea. Nagkadto siya sa Cesarea kag didto nagtiner.
Naakig gid si Haring Haring Herodes sa mga tawo sa Tyre kag Sidon. Gani nagsugtanay ang mga tawo nga magpakig-areglo sa hari tungod nga ang ila banwa nagakuha sang pagkaon sa banwa sang hari. Una, gin-amigo nila anay si Blastus para buligan sila, kay siya amo ang ginasaligan sang hari sa palasyo. Dayon, nagkadto sila sa hari para magpakigkita sa iya.
Pag-abot sang adlaw nga si Herodes magpakigkita na sa mga taga-Tyre kag taga-Sidon, ginsuksok niya ang iya harianon nga bayo kag nagpungko sa hukmanan kag nagpamulong-pulong.
Nagsilinggit ang mga tawo, “Indi tawo ang nagahambal nga ini, kundi dios!”
Sa sadto gid nga tion ginsilutan siya sang anghel sang Ginoo, tungod nga wala niya ginhatagan sang kadungganan ang Dios. Gin-uluran siya kag napatay.
Gani padayon nga naglapnag ang pulong sang Dios kag nagdamo pa gid ang mga tumuluo.
Sa pihak nga bahin, nagbalik si Barnabas kag si Saulo sa Antioc halin sa Jerusalem
Sa Antioc may mga propeta kag mga manunudlo nga miyembro sang iglesya. Sila amo si Barnabas, si Simeon nga ginatawag Negro, si Lucio nga taga-Cyrene, si Manaen nga nagdako sa panimalay
Samtang nagasimba sila sa Ginoo kag nagapuasa, nagsiling ang Espiritu Santo sa ila, “Paina ninyo para sa akon si Barnabas kag si Saulo, kay may ipahimo ako sa ila.”
Pagkatapos sang ila pagpuasa kag pagpangamuyo, gintungtungan nila si Barnabas kag si Saulo sang ila mga kamot kag ginpalakat sila.
Gani nagpa-Seleucia si Barnabas kag si Saulo nga ginpadala sang Espiritu Santo. Halin didto nagbiyahe sila pakadto sa isla sang isla sang Cyprus.
Pag-abot nila didto sa banwa sang Salamis, nagwali sila sang pulong sang Dios sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio. Si Juan Marcos Marcos kaupod man nila bilang kabulig nila sa obra.
Ginlibot nila ang bilog nga isla hasta nakalambot sila sa banwa sang Pafos. May nakita sila didto nga madyikero nga si Bar Jesus. Judio siya, kag nagapakuno-kuno nga siya propeta sang Dios sang Dios .
Abyan siya ni Sergius Paulus nga gobernador sang amo nga isla. Si Sergius Paulus maalam nga tawo. Ginpatawag niya si Barnabas kag si Saulo tungod nga luyag niya nga magpamati sang pulong sang Dios.
Pero ginbalabagan sila sang madyikero nga si Elimas. (Amo ini ang ngalan ni Bar Jesus sa lingguahe nga Griego.) Ginhimulatan gid niya nga mapalikaw ang gobernador nga indi siya makatuo kay Jesus.
Pero si Saulo nga ginatawag man nga Pablo gin-gamhan sang Espiritu Santo, kag gintulok niya sing masakit si Elimas kag nagsiling,
“Anak ka sang yawa! Kaaway ka sang tanan nga maayo! Pulos pangdaya kag pangtunto ang imo ginahimo. Ginabaliskad mo permi ang mga husto nga pamaagi sang Ginoo.
Karon silutan ka sang Ginoo. Mabulag ka kag indi gid makakita sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw.” Nagdulom gilayon ang panulok ni Elimas kag nabulag siya. Nagpangapkap na lang siya nga nagapangita sang magatuytoy sa iya.
Pagkakita sang gobernador sa natabo kay Elimas, nagtuo siya, kag natingala gid siya sa mga pagpanudlo parte sa Ginoo.
Paghalin nila ni Pablo sa Pafos, nagbiyahe sila pa-Perga nga sakop sang Pamfilia. Pag-abot nila didto ginbayaan sila ni Juan Marcos Marcos . Nagbalik siya sa Jerusalem.
Sila ni Pablo nagderetso sa Antioc nga sakop sang Pisidia. Pag-abot sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagkadto sila sa simbahan sang mga Judio kag nagpungko didto.
May nagbasa sa Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises kag sa mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta. Dayon may ginsugo ang mga manugdumala sang simbahan sa pagsiling sa ila ni Pablo, “Mga kauturan, kon may inughambal kamo nga makapabakod sa mga tawo, ihambal ninyo.”
“Mga kapareho ko nga mga kapareho ko nga mga Israelinhon, kag kamo nga mga indi Israelinhon pero nagatahod man sa Dios, pamatii ninyo ako!
Ang Dios nga ginasimba sang mga Israelinhon amo ang nagpili sang aton mga katigulangan, kag ginpadamo niya sila sang didto pa sila nagaestar sa duta sang Egypt. Kag paagi sa iya gahom ginbuligan niya sila para makahalin sa Egypt.
Sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig, gin-agwanta
Pagkatapos ginlaglag niya ang pito ka nasyon sa duta sang Canaan, kag ginhatag niya ini nga kadutaan sa aton mga katigulangan.
“Dayon ginhatagan niya sila sang mga tawo nga magapangulo sa ila hasta sa panahon ni Propeta Samuel.
Sang ulihi nagpangayo sila sang hari, gani ginhatag sang Dios si Saul nga anak ni Kish, nga isa sang mga kaliwat ni Benjamin. Naghari si Saul sa ila sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
Sang napahalin na sang Dios si Saul, si David naman ang iya ginhimo nga hari nila. Amo ini ang ginsiling sang Dios, ‘May nakita na ako nga tawo nga si David nga anak ni Jesse, nga nagakomporme sa akon luyag. Magatuman siya sa tanan ko nga isugo sa iya.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid si Pablo sa mga tawo, Nagsiling pa gid si Pablo sa mga tawo, “Sa kaliwat ni David naghalin si Jesus nga amo ang Manluluwas nga ginpromisa sang Dios sa Israel.
Sa wala pa magsugod si Jesus sa iya buluhaton, nagwali si Juan sa tanan nga Israelinhon nga maghinulsol sila sa ila mga sala kag magpabautiso.
Sang malapit na matapos ni Juan ang iya buluhaton, nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, ‘Siguro nagahunahuna kamo nga ako amo na ang inyo ginapaabot. Pero indi! Ginpauna lang ako. Magasunod siya sa akon, kag indi gani ako takos mangin iya ulipon.
Dayon nagsiling si Pablo, Dayon nagsiling si Pablo, “Mga kauturan, nga mga kaliwat ni Abraham kag mga indi Judio pero nagatahod man sa Dios, kita amo ang ginpadal-an sang Dios sang Maayong Balita parte sa kaluwasan.
Pero ang mga Judio nga nagaestar sa Jerusalem kag ang ila mga manugdumala wala nagkilala nga si Jesus amo ang Manluluwas. Wala man sila makaintiendi sang ginhambal sang mga propeta nga ginabasa nila kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway; pero sila man mismo amo ang nagtuman sang mga ginpropesiya sang mga propeta sang paghukom nila kay Jesus nga patyon.
Bisan wala sila sang mabakod nga ebidensya para patyon siya, ginpangayo gihapon nila kay Pilato nga ipapatay si Jesus.
Sang nahimo na nila ang tanan nga ginsiling sang Kasulatan nga matabo sa iya, ginkuha nila siya sa krus kag ginbutang sa lulubngan,
pero ginbanhaw siya sang Dios.
Kag sa madamo nga inadlaw nagpakita siya sa mga tawo nga nag-upod sa iya sang paghalin niya sa Galilea pakadto sa Jerusalem. Atong mga tawo amo man ang nagapanugid subong sa mga Israelinhon parte kay Jesus.
Kag ari kami subong para isugid sa inyo ang Maayong Balita nga ginpromisa sang Dios sa aton mga katigulangan,
“ ‘Ikaw ang akon Anak, kag subong ipakilala ko nga ako ang imo Amay.’
nga akon ginpromisa kay David himuon ko sa imo.’
“ ‘Indi mo pagtugutan nga madunot ang imo matutom nga alagad.’
“Indi si David ang iya ginatumod, “Indi si David ang iya ginatumod, tungod nga pagkatapos sang pag-alagad ni David sa mga tawo sa iya nga henerasyon, suno sa mga ginpahimo sang Dios sa iya, napatay siya kag ginlubong sa kilid sang ginlubngan sang iya mga katigulangan, kag ang iya lawas nadunot.
Pero si Jesus nga ginbanhaw sang Dios wala gid madunot.
Gani mag-andam kamo para indi matabo sa inyo ang ginsiling sang mga propeta,
bisan may magsugid pa sini sa inyo.’ ”
Sang nagaguwa na si Pablo kag si Barnabas sa simbahan sang mga Judio, ginpangabay sila sang mga tawo nga magbalik sa sunod nga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway para sugiran pa gid sila parte sa sini nga mga butang.
Pagbululag sang mga tawo sa simbahan, madamo nga Judio kag debotado nga mga convert sa relihiyon sang mga Judio ang nagsunod kay Pablo kag kay Barnabas. Ginhambalan sila ni Pablo kag ni Barnabas kag ginkombinsi nga magpadayon sila sa pagsalig sa grasya sang Dios.
Sang sunod nga Adlaw nga Inugpahuway halos ang tanan nga pumuluyo sa Antioc nagtipon didto sa simbahan sang mga Judio didto sa simbahan sang mga Judio para magpamati sa pulong sang Ginoo.
Pagkakita sang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio sa madamo nga tawo nga nagtalambong, nahisa gid sila kag naghambal sila kontra sa mga ginpanghambal ni Pablo kag ginpakalain pa nila siya.
Pero nag-isog pa gid si Pablo kag si Barnabas. Nagsiling sila sa mga Judio sa mga Judio , “Kinahanglan gid nga iwali anay sa inyo nga mga Judio nga mga Judio ang pulong sang Dios. Pero tungod kay ginasikway ninyo siya, nagapakilala lang ina nga kamo indi bagay nga hatagan sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Gani halin subong, sa mga indi Judio na kami mawali sang Maayong Balita.
hasta sa pinakamalayo nga parte sang kalibutan.’ ”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga indi Judio, nalipay sila kag gindayaw nila ang pulong sang Ginoo. Kag ang tanan nga ginpili para sa kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nangin tumuluo.
Gani naglapnag ang pulong sang Ginoo sa sadto nga lugar.
Pero ginsutsot sang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio ang mga pangulo sang siyudad, pati ang mga relihiyuso kag kilala nga mga babayi, nga kontrahon sila ni Pablo. Gani ginhingabot nila si Pablo kag si Barnabas, kag gintabog sila sa sadto nga lugar.
Gintaktak ni Pablo kag ni Barnabas ang yab-ok sa ila mga tiil bilang paandam kontra sa ila. Dayon nagkadto sila sa Iconium.
Ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus didto sa Antioc ni Jesus didto sa Antioc ginagamhan sang Espiritu Santo, kag malipayon gid sila.
Ang natabo sa Iconium pareho man sa natabo sa Antioc sa natabo sa Antioc . Nagkadto si Pablo kag si Barnabas sa simbahan sang mga Judio. Kag tungod sa ila pagwali, madamo nga Judio kag indi Judio ang nagtuo kay Jesus.
Pero ginpalain sang mga Judio nga wala nagatuo ang buot sang mga indi Judio sa mga tumuluo, kag ginsutsot pa nila nga kontrahon sila.
Madugay ang tiner didto ni Pablo kag ni Barnabas. Wala sila nahadlok maghambal parte sa Ginoo. Ginpakita sang Ginoo nga matuod ang ila ginatudlo parte sa iya grasya, kay ginhatagan niya sila sing gahom sa paghimo sing mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang.
Gani, ang mga tawo sa sadto nga siyudad nagbinahin-bahin; ang iban nagdampig sa mga Judio nga wala nagatuo, kag ang iban nagdampig sa mga apostoles.
May mga Judio kag mga indi Judio, kaupod ang ila mga pangulo, nga nagplano nga sakiton nila kag batuhon ang mga apostoles.
Pagkahibalo sang mga apostoles sang amo nga plano nagpalagyo sila pakadto sa Lystra kag sa Derbe, nga mga siyudad nga sakop sang Lycaonia, kag sa palibot nga mga lugar.
Kag ginwali nila didto ang Maayong Balita.
Sa Lystra may isa ka tawo nga lupog halin pa sang iya pagkatawo.
Nagpamati siya sa mga ginahambal ni Pablo. Ginhimutaran siya ni Pablo kag nakita niya nga may pagtuo ang lupog nga maayo siya.
Gani sa mabaskog nga tingog naghambal si Pablo sa iya, “Tindog ka sing tadlong!” Nagtindog dayon ang tawo kag naglakat-lakat.
Pagkakita sang mga tawo sa ginhimo ni Pablo, nagsinggit sila sa Lycaonia nga lingguahe, “Nagpanaog ang mga dios diri sa aton sa dagway sang tawo!”
Gintawag nila si Barnabas nga si Zeus, kag si Pablo nga si Hermes tungod nga siya amo ang manughambal.
Ang templo sang ila dios nga si Zeus malapit lang sa guwa sang siyudad. Gani nagdala ang pari ni Zeus sing turo nga mga baka nga may kulintas nga bulak didto sa puwertahan sang siyudad. Gusto niya kag sang mga tawo nga ihalad ato sa mga apostoles.
Pagkahibalo ni Barnabas kag ni Pablo kon ano ang ila tuyo, gin-gisi nila ang ila mga bayo
“Mga abyan, ngaa mahalad kamo sa amon? Kami mga tawo man lang nga pareho sa inyo. Ginawali namon sa inyo ang Maayong Balita para bayaan na ninyo ang mga wala pulos nga mga butang nga ini kag magpalapit sa Dios nga buhi. Siya amo ang naghimo sang kalangitan, sang duta, sang dagat, kag sang tanan nga ara sa ila.
Sang una ginpabay-an lang sang Dios ang mga tawo sa pagsunod sa ila luyag.
Pero sa tanan nga oras ginapakilala sang Dios ang iya kaugalingon sa mga tawo paagi sa iya mga ginahimo nga maayo. Ginahatagan niya kamo sing ulan kag mga patubas pag-abot sang tig-alani. Bugana nga pagkaon ang iya ginahatag sa inyo para malipay kamo.”
Pero bisan amo ini ang ginahambal sang mga apostoles, nabudlayan pa gid sila sa pagpugong sa mga tawo nga magpatay sang ila mga baka para ihalad sa ila.
May nag-abot nga mga Judio halin sa Antioc nga sakop sang Pisidia nga sakop sang Pisidia kag sa Iconium. Gin-ganyat nila ang mga tawo nga magdampig sa ila. Ginpulihan nila bato si Pablo kag gin-guyod dayon paguwa sa banwa, kay hunahuna nila patay na siya.
Pero pagtipon sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus didto sa iya palibot, nagbangon siya kag nagbalik sa banwa. Sang sunod nga adlaw nagkadto sila nga duha ni Barnabas sa Derbe.
Ginwali ni Pablo kag ni Barnabas ang Maayong Balita didto sa Derbe kag madamo ang ila nadala nga magsunod kay Jesu-Cristo. Pagkatapos nagbalik naman sila sa Lystra, sa Iconium, kag sa Antioc nga sakop sang Pisidia nga sakop sang Pisidia .
Ginpabakod nila ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus kag ginlaygayan nga magpadayon gid sa ila pagtuo. Nagsiling man sila sa ila, “Madamo nga kabudlayan ang aton dapat pagaagyan antes kita masakop sa paghari sang Dios.”
Sa kada lugar nga may iglesya, nagpili sila sang mga manugdumala para sa ila. Nagpuasa sila kag nagpangamuyo para sa mga ginpili, kag gintugyan nila sila sa Ginoo nga ila ginatuohan.
Pagkatapos nag-agi sila sa Pisidia kag nag-abot sila sa Pamfilia.
Nagwali sila didto sa Perga kag dason nagdulhog sila sa Atalia.
Halin didto nagbiyahe sila pabalik sa Antioc nga sakop sang Syria nga sakop sang Syria . Amo ini ang lugar nga ila ginhalinan, kag diri man sila ginpangamuyuan sang mga tumuluo nga pakamaayuhon sila sang Dios sa ila buluhaton nga natapos na nila subong.
Sang pag-abot ni Pablo kag ni Barnabas sa Antioc, gintipon nila ang mga tumuluo
Kag dugay ang ila pagtiner sa Antioc upod sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus didto.
May mga tawo halin sa Judea nga nagkadto sa Antioc kag nagkadto sa Antioc kag nagtudlo sa mga kauturan didto nga sila nga mga indi Judio nga mga indi Judio indi maluwas kon indi sila magpatuli suno sa kinabatasan nga gintudlo ni Moises.
Mainit ang pagpakigbais ni Pablo kag ni Barnabas kontra sa ila parte sini. Gani nagsugtanay ang mga tumuluo didto nga pakadtuon sa Jerusalem si Pablo kag si Barnabas, kag ang iban nga mga tumuluo sa Antioc, para magpakigkita sa mga apostoles kag sa mga manugdumala sang iglesya parte sa sini nga butang.
Dayon ginpadala sang iglesya sila ni Pablo. Sang pag-agi nila sa Fenicia kag sa Samaria, ginsugid nila sa mga tumuluo didto nga may mga indi Judio nga nagtuo man kay Cristo. Pagkabati nila sini, nalipay gid sila.
Pag-abot nila ni Pablo ni Pablo sa Jerusalem ginbaton sila sang iglesya, sang mga apostoles, kag sang mga manugdumala sang iglesya. Ginsugid nila ang tanan nga ginhimo sang Dios paagi sa ila.
Karon, may mga tumuluo didto nga mga miyembro sang grupo sang mga Pariseo. Nagtindog sila kag nagsiling, “Kinahanglan tulion ang mga indi Judio kag silingon sila nga magtuman sa Kasuguan ni Moises.”
Gani nag-meeting ang mga apostoles kag ang mga manugdumala sang iglesya para hambalan ini nga butang.
Malawig ang ila diskusyon. Sang ulihi nagtindog si Pedro kag nagsiling, “Mga kauturan, nahibaluan na ninyo nga ginpili ako sang Dios halin sa inyo sang una pa para itudlo ko ang Maayong Balita sa mga indi Judio, para makabati man sila kag magtuo.
Nahibaluan sang Dios ang tagipusuon sang mga tawo. Kag ginpakita niya nga ginabaton man niya ang mga indi Judio, tungod nga ginhatag man niya ang Espiritu Santo sa ila pareho sang iya ginhimo sa aton sang una.
Sa panulok sang Dios, kita nga mga Judio kag sila nga mga indi Judio palareho lang. Kay gintinluan man niya ang ila mga tagipusuon tungod nga nagtuo sila.
Ngaa ginapaakig ninyo ang Dios? Ngaa gusto ninyo nga pasundon ang aton kapareho nga aton kapareho nga mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus sa mga pagsulundan nga bisan gani ang aton mga katigulangan kag kita wala man makasunod?
Nagatuo kita nga maluwas kita paagi sa grasya ni Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, kag amo man ini sa mga indi Judio.”
Pagkabati nila sadto naghipos sila tanan. Dayon ginpamatian nila ang ginsugid ni Barnabas kag ni Pablo parte sa mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga ginhimo sang Dios sa mga indi Judio paagi sa ila.
Pagkatapos nila hambal, nagsiling si Santiago, “Mga kauturan, pamatii ninyo ako.
Ginsugid sa aton ni Simon Pedro Pedro ang una nga pagtawag sang Dios sa mga indi Judio para may mga tawo man nga halin sa ila nga mangin iya.
Ini suno man sa mga ginsulat sang mga propeta sang una, kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan,
Pabangunon ko liwat ini sa iya pagkarumpag,
kag himuon ko ini nga mga butang,’
kag ginpahibalo ko na ini halin sang una pa.”
Nagpadayon si Santiago sa pagsiling, Nagpadayon si Santiago sa pagsiling, “Gani kon sa akon lang, indi na naton pagpabudlayan ang mga indi Judio nga nagatuo sa Dios.
Sa baylo, sulatan ta sila nga indi magkaon sang mga pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios, tungod nga mahigko ato sa aton panulok. Indi sila maghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon. Indi man sila magkaon sang dugo ukon sang karne sang sapat nga sang pagkapatay ang dugo wala nakaguwa,
agod indi mahigkuan ang mga Judio sa ila. agod indi mahigkuan ang mga Judio sa ila. Tungod nga halin pa sang una, ginabasa na sang mga Judio kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway sa ila mga simbahan ang nasulat nga Kasuguan nga ginbilin ni Moises. Kag ini ginatudlo nila sa kada banwa.”
Dayon nagsugtanay ang mga apostoles kag ang mga manugdumala sang iglesya kag ang tanan nga tumuluo didto nga mapili sila sang mga lalaki sa grupo nila nga ila paupdon kay Pablo kag kay Barnabas sa Antioc. Si Judas nga kon tawgon Barsabas kag si Silas amo ang ila napilian. Ini nga mga tawo ginatahod sang mga tumuluo.
“Kami nga mga apostoles kag mga manugdumala sang iglesya diri, nga inyo mga kauturan, nagapangamusta sa inyo nga mga indi Judio nga dira sa Antioc, Syria, kag Cilicia.
Nakabati kami nga may mga tawo nga halin diri sa amon nga nagkadto dira sa inyo kag ginpalibog nila ang inyo mga hunahuna tungod sang ila mga gintudlo dira. Wala kami nagsugo sa ila nga magkadto dira kag magtudlo sang pareho sina.
Gani pagkabati namon sadto Gani pagkabati namon sadto nagsugtanay kami nga magpili sang mga tawo nga amon ipadala sa inyo agod magsugid sang amon ginkasugtan agod magsugid sang amon ginkasugtan . Kaupod sila sang aton pinalangga nga si Pablo kag si Barnabas.
Si Barnabas kag si Pablo nga ini nagtaya sang ila kabuhi sa pag-alagad sa aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Si Judas kag si Silas nga amon ginpadala sa inyo magasugid man sang parte sa mga butang nga nasambit diri sa amon sulat.
Nagsugtanay kami suno sa pagtuytoy sang Espiritu Santo nga indi na pagdugangan ang inyo mga sulundon luwas sa masunod nga mga kinahanglan gid nga tumanon ninyo:
Indi kamo magkaon sang mga pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios; indi kamo magkaon sang dugo ukon sang karne sang sapat nga sang pagkapatay ang dugo wala nakaguwa; kag indi kamo maghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon. Maayo kon likawan ninyo ang mga butang nga ini. Hasta na lang diri.”
Dayon naglakat ang mga tawo nga ila ginpadala. Pag-abot nila didto sa Antioc, gintipon nila ang mga tumuluo kag ginhatag nila dayon ang sulat.
Pagkabasa sang mga tumuluo sang mga pagpabaskog sa ila, nalipay gid sila.
Si Judas kag si Silas mga propeta man, kag madamo ang ila mga gintudlo sa mga tumuluo sa pagpabakod sang ila pagtuo.
Sa tapos sila makapabilin didto sing pila ka adlaw, nagbalik sila sa Jerusalem sa Jerusalem sa mga nagpadala sa ila. Pero sa wala pa sila maglakat, ginpangamuyuan anay sila sang mga tumuluo nga mangin maayo lang ang ila paglakat.
Pero si Silas nagdesisyon nga magpabilin didto.
Nagtiner si Pablo kag si Barnabas sing pila ka adlaw sa Antioc. Madamo ang ila kaupod nga nagpanudlo kag nagwali sang pulong sang Ginoo.
Sang ulihi nagsiling si Pablo kay Barnabas, “Mabalik kita sa tanan nga banwa nga aton ginwalihan sang pulong sang Ginoo, kag bisitahan ta ang mga kauturan para mahibaluan ta kon ano ang ila kahimtangan.”
Komporme si Barnabas, pero gusto niya nga dal-on si Juan nga ginatawag Marcos.
Pero si Pablo indi luyag nga paupdon si Marcos, tungod nga sang una nangin kaupod nila si Marcos, pero sang ulihi ginbayaan niya sila didto sa Pamfilia.
Mainit ang ila pagbinaisay, gani nagbulagay sila. Gindala ni Barnabas si Marcos kag nagbiyahe sila pa-Cyprus.
Kag si Silas ya ang gindala ni Pablo. Sa wala pa maghalin si Pablo kag si Silas, nagpangamuyo ang mga tumuluo sa Ginoo nga buligan niya sila nga duha sa ila paglakat.
Nagkadto sila ni Pablo sa Syria kag sa Cilicia kag ginpabakod nila ang mga iglesya didto.
Nagpadayon sila ni Pablo sa paglakat sa Derbe kag sa Lystra. May sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus didto sa Lystra nga si Timoteo. Ang iya iloy Judio kag tumuluo man, pero ang iya amay Griego.
Suno sa mga tumuluo didto sa Lystra kag sa Iconium, si Timoteo maayo nga tawo.
Gusto ni Pablo dal-on si Timoteo, gani gintuli niya siya para wala sing reklamo ang mga Judio kontra kay Timoteo, kay ang tanan nga Judio nga nagaestar sa amo nga mga lugar nakahibalo nga Griego ang amay ni Timoteo.
Pagkatapos nagkadto sila sa mga banwa kag ginpaathag nila sa mga tumuluo ang mga pagsulundan nga gindesisyunan sang mga apostoles kag sang mga manugdumala sang iglesya didto sa Jerusalem. Ginsilingan nila ang mga tumuluo nga tumanon nila ini nga mga pagsulundan.
Gani napabakod ang pagtuo sang mga iglesya, kag adlaw-adlaw nagadamo pa gid sila.
Dayon nagkadto sila sa mga lugar nga sakop sang Frigia kag Galacia, kay wala sila pagtuguti sang Espiritu Santo nga magwali sang pulong sang Dios didto sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia.
Pag-abot nila sa border sang Mysia, gusto nila kuntani nga magkadto sa Bitinia, pero ang Espiritu ni Jesus wala nagtugot sa ila.
Gani nag-agi na lang sila sa Mysia kag nagdulhog sa Troas.
Sadto nga gab-i may ginpakita ang Dios kay Pablo. Nakita niya ang isa ka tawo nga taga-Macedonia nga nagatindog kag nagapakitluoy sa iya. Siling sang tawo, “Tabok ka diri sa Macedonia kag buligi kami.”
Gani nanghimos kami dayon sa pagkadto sa Macedonia, tungod nga nabatyagan namon nga ginatawag kami sang Dios sa pagwali sang Maayong Balita sa mga tawo didto.
Nagsakay kami sa sakayan halin sa Troas kag nagderetso sa Samotracia, kag sang masunod nga adlaw nag-abot kami didto sa Neapolis.
Halin sa Neapolis nagdungka kami sa Filipos nga isa ka siyudad sa nahauna nga distrito sang Macedonia. Madamo sa mga nagaestar didto taga-Roma, pati ang ila mga manugdumala. Nagtiner kami sa Filipos sang pila ka adlaw.
Pag-abot sang Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagguwa kami sa siyudad kag nagkadto sa higad sang suba tungod nga naghunahuna kami nga may lugar didto nga ginatipunan sang mga Judio para magpangamuyo. May nagtipon didto nga mga babayi, gani nagpungko kami kag nag-estorya sa ila.
Isa sang mga nagapamati sa amon amo si Lydia nga taga-Tiatira. Negosyante siya sang malahalon nga mga tela nga granate,
Nagpabautiso siya kag ang iya panimalay. Pagkatapos gin-agda niya kami sa iya balay. Nagsiling siya, “Kon sa pagbinagbinag ninyo ako matuod na nga tumuluo sa Ginoo, didto kamo magdayon sa akon balay.” Kag napilitan kami.
Isa ka adlaw, samtang nagapakadto kami sa lugar nga ginatipunan sa pagpangamuyo, ginsugata kami sang isa ka ulipon nga dalagita. Ato nga dalagita ginagamhan sang malain nga malain nga espiritu nga nagahatag sa iya sang abilidad sa pagpakot sang mga matabo sa palaabuton. Paagi sa sining abilidad nakapangwarta sing dako ang iya mga amo.
Karon, ini nga babayi permi lang nagasunod-sunod sa amon ni Pablo, kag amo ini ang iya ginasinggit, “Ini nga mga tawo mga alagad sang Labing Mataas nga Dios! Ginawali nila sa inyo kon paano kamo maluwas!”
Adlaw-adlaw amo ato ang iya ginahimo hasta tinak-an si Pablo. Gani binalikid niya ini nga babayi kag nagsiling sa espiritu nga nagagahom sa iya nga nagagahom sa iya , “Sa ngalan
Pagkakita sang iya mga amo nga wala na sila paglaom nga makapanguwarta pa paagi sa iya, gindakop nila si Pablo kag si Silas kag gin-guyod sa plasa kag gindala sa mga opisyal sang sadto nga lugar.
Nagsiling sila sa mga opisyal, “Ini nga mga tawo mga Judio kag nagagamo diri sa aton siyudad.
Nagatudlo sila sang mga pamatasan nga kontra sa aton kasuguan. Mga Romanhon kita, gani indi kita makasunod sang ila mga ginatudlo!”
Kag nagpuli ang mga tawo didto sa pagsakit sa ila ni Pablo. Pagkatapos ginpabugras sang mga opisyal ang mga bayo ni Pablo kag ni Silas kag ginpahanot sila dayon.
Sang natam-an na sila sing hanot, ginsulod nila sila sa prisohan. Ginsugo nila ang guwardya nga bantayan gid sila sing maayo.
Gani ginsulod sila sang guwardya sa sulod gid nga selda kag gin-gapos ang ila mga tiil.
Sang mga tungang gab-i na, nagapangamuyo si Pablo kag si Silas kag nagakanta sang mga pagdayaw sa Dios. Ang ila mga kaupod nga mga priso nagapamati sa ila.
Sa hinali lang naglinog sing mabaskog kag nag-uyog ang prisohan. Nag-alabri ang mga puwertahan sang prisohan kag nagkalahukas ang mga kadena sang tanan nga priso.
Nakamata ang guwardya, kag pagkakita niya nga abri na ang mga puwertahan sang prisohan, ang hunahuna niya nakapalagyo na ang mga priso. Gani gin-gabot niya ang iya espada para manginmatay.
Pero nagsinggit si Pablo, “Indi ka magpanginmatay! Ari pa kami tanan!”
Nagpakuha sing suga ang guwardya kag nagdali-dali siya sulod didto kag nagluhod sa atubangan nila ni Pablo kag ni Silas nga nagakurog.
Dayon, gindala niya sila ni Pablo sa guwa kag nagpamangkot, “Ano ang akon himuon para maluwas ako?”
Nagsabat sila ni Pablo, “Magtuo ka kay Ginoong Jesus kag maluwas ka kag ang imo panimalay.”
Dayon gintudlo nila ni Pablo ang pulong sang Ginoo sa iya kag sa tanan nga miyembro sang iya panimalay.
Sa sadto gid nga gab-i ginhugasan sang guwardya ang ila mga pilas, kag nagpabautiso siya dayon pati ang bilog niya nga panimalay.
Pagkatapos gindala niya sila ni Pablo sa iya balay kag ginpakaon. Nalipay gid ang guwardya kag ang iya bilog nga panimalay nga sila nagatuo na sa Dios.
Pagkaaga nagsugo ang mga opisyal sa mga pulis nga buy-an na sila ni Pablo.
Kag ini ginbalita sang guwardya kay Pablo. Nagsiling siya, “Nagpasugo ang mga opisyal nga buy-an na kamo. Gani magguwa na kamo kag maayo lang nga paglakat.”
Pero nagsiling si Pablo sa mga pulis nga ginsugo, “Ginpahanot nila kami sa publiko nga wala anay pag-imbistigara bisan mga Romanhon kami. Dayon ginpapriso nila kami. Pero karon gusto nila nga sa tago lang ang pagpaguwa sa amon? Indi mahimo! Kinahanglan ang mga opisyal mismo amo ang magkadto diri kag sila gid ang magpaguwa sa amon.”
Pagsugid sang mga pulis sa mga opisyal sang ginhambal ni Pablo nga sila mga Romanhon, kinulbaan sila.
Gani nagkadto ang mga opisyal sa prisohan kag nagpangayo pasensya sa ila ni Pablo. Dayon ginpaguwa nila sila ni Pablo kag ginpangabay nga maghalin na sila sa sadto nga siyudad.
Sang nakaguwa na si Pablo kag si Silas sa prisohan, nagkadto sila dayon sa balay ni Lydia. Nagpakigkita sila didto sa mga tumuluo, kag ginlaygayan nila sila para palig-unon ang ila pagtuo. Pagkatapos naglakat sila.
Nag-agi sila sa Amfipolis kag sa Apolonia hasta nakaabot sila sa Tesalonica. Didto sa Tesalonica may simbahan sang mga Judio.
Kag suno sa kinabatasan ni Pablo, nagsulod siya sa ila simbahan, kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka Adlaw nga Inugpahuway, nagdiskusyon siya sa mga tawo didto. Ang Kasulatan amo ang iya gin-gamit
para pamatud-an sa ila nga ang Cristo kinahanglan gid nga mag-antos kag mabanhaw. Nagsiling si Pablo, “Ining Jesus nga akon ginasugid sa inyo amo ang Cristo.”
Ang iban sa ila nakombinsi sa ginhambal ni Pablo, kag nagsunod sila kay Pablo kag kay Silas. Madamo man nga mga Griego nga nagasimba sa Dios kag kilala nga mga babayi ang nag-upod sa ila.
Karon, nahisa ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio. Gani gintipon nila ang mga bugoy nga mga istambay. Kag sang madamo na ang ila natipon, nagsugod sila panggamo sa bilog nga siyudad. Gin-gubat nila ang balay ni Jason sa pagpangita kay Pablo kag kay Silas para madala sila sa atubangan sang mga tawo.
Pero sang wala nila makita si Pablo kag si Silas, gindakop nila si Jason kag ang iban pa nga mga tumuluo. Gin-guyod nila sila pakadto sa mga opisyal sang siyudad kag nagasinggit sila, “Ining mga tawo nagadala sing gamo bisan diin sila magkadto tungod sang ila mga ginatudlo. Kag karon ari na sila sa aton siyudad.
Ginpadayon pa sila ni Jason sa iya balay. Ini sila tanan nagakontra sa mga kasuguan sang Emperador tungod nga nagasiling sila nga may isa pa ka hari nga ang iya ngalan si Jesus.”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga tawo kag sang mga opisyal, nagginamo sila.
Sa wala pa nila mabuy-i si Jason kag ang iya mga kaupod, ginpabayad anay sila sang piansa.
Pagkagab-i, ginpadala sang mga tumuluo si Pablo kag si Silas sa Berea. Pag-abot nila didto, nagkadto sila sa simbahan sang mga Judio.
Mas bukas ang hunahuna sang mga tawo sa Berea sang sa mga tawo sa Tesalonica. Dako gid ang ila luyag sa pagpamati sang ginatudlo nila ni Pablo. Kag adlaw-adlaw sige ang ila usisa sang Kasulatan para tan-awon kon matuod gid bala ang mga ginapanghambal nila ni Pablo.
Madamo sa ila ang nagtuo pati ang mga lalaki kag mga kilala nga mga babayi nga Griego.
Pero pagkabati sang mga Judio sa Tesalonica nga nagwali man si Pablo sang pulong sang Dios didto sa Berea, nagkadto sila didto kag ginsutsot ang mga tawo sa paggamo.
Gani gindul-ong dayon sang mga tumuluo si Pablo sa baybay. Pero si Silas ya kag si Timoteo nagpabilin sa Berea.
Ang mga tawo nga nagdul-ong kay Pablo nag-upod sa iya hasta sa Athens. Dayon nagbalik sila sa Berea nga may tugon halin kay Pablo nga si Silas kag si Timoteo maapas lang dayon sa iya sa Athens.
Samtang nagahulat si Pablo kay Silas kag kay Timoteo didto sa Athens, nakita niya nga madamo gid ang ila mga dios-dios. Natublag gid siya.
Gani nagsulod siya sa simbahan sang mga Judio kag nagpakigdiskusyon sa ila kag sa mga indi Judio nga nagasimba man sa Dios. Adlaw-adlaw didto siya sa plasa nga nagapakigdiskusyon sa mga tawo nga iya masugata.
May duha ka klase sang mga manunudlo ang nagpakigdiskusyon kay Pablo. Ang isa ginatawag mga Epicureo, kag ang isa mga Estoico. Nagsiling ang iban sa ila, “Ano ayhan ang ginawakal sang tikalon nga ini?” Ang iban nagsiling, “Daw lain man nga mga dios ang iya ginawali.” Amo ini ang ila ginsiling tungod nga nagawali si Pablo sang Maayong Balita parte kay Jesus kag sa iya pagkabanhaw.
Gani gindala nila si Pablo sa tilipunan nga ginatawag tilipunan nga ginatawag Areopagus. Nagsiling sila sa iya, “Gusto namon nga mahibaluan ang bag-o nga pagtulun-an nga imo ginawali.
Kay may lain ka nga mga butang nga ginatudlo nga bag-o sa amon, gani gusto namon mahibaluan kon ano ina nga mga butang.”
( Amo ini ang ila ginhambal tungod nga Amo ini ang ila ginhambal tungod nga ang mga taga-Athens kag ang mga taga-iban nga lugar nga didto na nagaestar wala sing iban nga naluyagan kundi ang magdiskusyon parte sa bag-o nga mga pagpanudlo.)
Gani nagtindog si Pablo sa atubangan sang mga tawo nga nagatipon didto sa Areopagus kag nagsiling, “Mga taga-Athens! Nakita ko nga kamo relihiyuso gid nga mga tawo.
Ining Dios nga inyo ginasimba nga wala pa ninyo makilala amo ang Dios nga akon ginawali sa inyo.
“Amo ini ang Dios nga nagtuga sang kalibutan kag sang tanan nga ara sa kalibutan. Siya ang Ginoo nga tag-iya sang langit kag duta, gani wala siya nagapuyo sa mga templo nga ginhimo sang mga tawo.
Wala man siya nagakinahanglan sang bulig nga halin sa mga tawo tungod nga siya mismo ang nagahatag sang kabuhi sa aton, pati sang tanan ta nga kinahanglanon.
Halin sa isa lang ka tawo, ginhimo niya ang tanan nga lahi sang mga tawo kag ginpalapta sa bilog nga kalibutan. Ginplano man niya sang una pa ang mga border kon diin maestar ang mga tawo pati ang tion nga sila magakabuhi diri.
Ini tanan ginhimo sang Dios para kita nga mga tawo magpangita sa iya, kag basi pa lang nga makita ta man siya. Pero ang matuod, ang Dios indi malayo sa aton,
kay ‘tungod sa iya gahom nagakabuhi kita kag nagahulag.’ Pareho man sang ginsiling sang iban ninyo nga mga manugbinalaybay, ‘Kita matuod mga anak niya.’
Gani, tungod nga kita mga anak sang Dios, indi kita dapat maghunahuna nga ang Dios pareho sang dios-dios nga bulawan, ukon pilak, ukon bato—imahen nga imbinto sang hunahuna kag kamot sang tawo.
Sang una, sang wala pa makakilala ang mga tawo sa Dios, wala niya pagsapaka ang ila mga sala. Pero subong ginasugo sang Dios ang tanan nga tawo sa tanan nga lugar nga maghinulsol na kag bayaan ang ila malain nga mga ginahimo.
Kay may adlaw nga ginpili ang Dios nga hukman niya sing matarong ang tanan nga tawo diri sa kalibutan paagi sa tawo nga iya ginpili. Ginpamatud-an niya ini sa tanan paagi sa iya pagbanhaw sang amo nga tawo.”
Pagkabati nila nga nagahambal si Pablo parte sa pagkabanhaw, ang iban sa ila nagyaguta sa iya. Pero ang iban nagsiling, “Balik ka diri tungod nga gusto namon nga magpamati pa gid sa imo parte sa sini nga mga butang.”
Pagkatapos naghalin si Pablo sa ila ginatipunan.
Ang iban nga mga lalaki nagdampig sa iya kag nagtuo kay Jesus kay Jesus . Ang isa sa ila amo si Dionisius nga miyembro sang Areopagus; kag may babayi man nga si Damaris, kag may iban pa gid.
Pagkatapos sadto, naghalin si Pablo sa Athens kag nagkadto sa Corinto.
Didto nakilala niya si Aquila nga Judio nga taga-Pontus kag ang iya asawa nga si Priscila. Bag-o lang sila nag-abot halin sa Italia tungod nga may sugo ang Emperador nga si Claudius, nga ang tanan nga Judio kinahanglan maghalin sa Roma. Ginbisitahan ni Pablo ini nga mag-asawa sa ila balay.
Kag tungod nga pareho sila sa iya nga manughimo sang tolda, didto siya nagdayon sa ila kag nag-updanay sila sa ila obra.
Kada Adlaw nga Inugpahuway didto si Pablo sa simbahan sang mga Judio nga nagapakigdiskusyon sa mga Judio kag sa mga Griego para kombinsihon sila.
Sang pag-abot ni Silas kag ni Timoteo halin sa Macedonia, gin-gamit ni Pablo ang iya bilog nga tiyempo sa pagwali sang pulong sang Dios. Ginpamatud-an niya sa mga Judio nga si Jesus amo gid ang Cristo.
Pero ginkontra nila si Pablo kag ginpakalain. Gani ginwaswas niya ang yab-ok sa iya mga bayo bilang paandam kontra sa ila bilang paandam kontra sa ila . Nagsiling siya, “Inyo gid sala kon silutan kamo sang Dios. Wala na ako sing salabton. Halin subong ang mga indi Judio na ang akon walihan.”
Gani ginbayaan niya ang mga Judio kag didto siya nagdayon sa balay ni Titius Justus. Ini nga tawo indi Judio, pero nagasimba sa Dios, kag ang iya balay ara gid sa tupad sang simbahan sang mga Judio.
Si Crispus nga manugdumala sang simbahan sang mga Judio kag ang iya panimalay nagtuo man kay Ginoo ng Jesus ng Jesus ; kag madamo pa gid nga mga taga-Corinto nga nakabati kay Pablo ang nagtuo kag nagpabautiso.
Isa ka gab-i, nagpakita ang Ginoo kay Pablo paagi sa palanan-awon kag nagsiling, “Indi ka magkahadlok. Magpadayon ka sa pagwali kag indi ka mag-untat,
tungod kay ako kaupod mo. Madamo ang akon mga pinili sa sini nga siyudad, gani wala sing may magpangahas nga magsakit sa imo.”
Gani isa ka tuig kag tunga ang pagtiner ni Pablo sa Corinto, kag gintudlo niya sa mga tawo ang pulong sang Dios.
Pero sang si Galio na ang gobernador sa Acaya, nagtilipon ang mga Judio kag gindakop nila si Pablo kag gindala sa hukmanan.
Nagsiling sila, “Ini nga tawo nagakombinsi sa mga tawo nga magsimba sa Dios sa paagi nga kontra sa aton kasuguan.”
Mahambal na kuntani si Pablo, pero nagsiling si Galio sa mga Judio, “Kon ang kaso nga ini nga inyo ginadala diri sa akon parte sa nahimo nga malain ukon mabug-at nga sala, pamatian ko kamo.
Pero ini parte lang sa mga pulong, mga ngalan, kag sa inyo Kasuguan. Gani bahala kamo. Indi ko gusto nga maghusgar parte sa sina nga mga butang.”
Dayon ginpaguwa niya sila sa hukmanan.
Pagkatapos gindakop sang mga Griego si Sostenes nga manugdumala sang simbahan sang mga Judio kag ginbunal nila didto sa guwa sang hukmanan, pero wala gid nagsapak si Galio.
Madugay-dugay pa ang pagtiner ni Pablo kaupod sa mga tumuluo didto sa Corinto. Pagkatapos nagkadto siya dayon sa Cencrea kaupod sang mag-asawa nga si Priscila kag si Aquila. Nagpautod siya sang buhok didto tungod nga may panaad siya sa Dios, kag natuman na niya atong panaad. Halin sa Cencrea nagbiyahe
Pagdungka niya sa Cesarea, nagkadto siya sa Jerusalem kag ginbisitahan niya ang iglesya didto, pagkatapos nagderetso siya sa Antioc.
Wala siya nagdugay didto, naghalin siya kag ginlibot niya ang mga lugar nga sakop sang Galacia kag Frigia kag ginpabakod niya ang pagtuo sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus didto.
Karon may isa ka Judio nga taga-Alexandria nga nag-abot sa Efeso. Ang iya ngalan si Apolos. Maayo siya maghambal kag madamo ang nahibaluan niya sa Kasulatan.
Natudluan na siya nga daan sang pamaagi sang Ginoo. Mapisan siya magwali kag husto ang iya mga ginatudlo parte kay Jesus. Pero ang bautiso nga gintudlo ni Juan amo lang ang iya nahibaluan.
Wala siya nahadlok maghambal sa simbahan sang mga Judio. Pagkabati ni Priscila kag ni Aquila sang iya ginapanudlo, gin-imbitar nila siya sa ila balay kag ginpaathag pa gid nila sa iya ang pamaagi sang Dios.
Kag sang naghandom si Apolos nga magkadto sa Acaya, ginbuligan siya sang mga tumuluo sa Efeso. Ginsulatan nila ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus sa Acaya nga batunon nila si Apolos. Pag-abot niya didto dako gid ang iya nabulig sa mga nangin tumuluo tungod sa grasya sang Dios.
Kay mapag-on ang iya mga rason nga halin sa Kasulatan nga si Jesus gid ang Cristo. Wala gid sang may mahimo ang mga Judio sa pagpakigbais sa iya sa tunga sang mga tawo.
Sang didto si Apolos sa Corinto, nagpanglakaton si Pablo sa mga kabukiran sang probinsya hasta nakaabot siya sa Efeso. Didto may nakita siya nga mga sumulunod.
Ginpamangkot niya sila, “Nabaton na bala ninyo ang Espiritu Santo sang magtuo kamo?” Nagsabat sila, “Wala gani kami nakabati nga may ginatawag nga Espiritu Santo.”
Nagpamangkot si Pablo sa ila, “Sa ano nga bautiso kamo ginbautisohan?” Nagsabat sila, “Sa bautiso ni Juan.”
Nagsiling si Pablo sa ila, “Ang bautiso ni Juan para sa mga nagahinulsol sang ila mga sala. Pero nagsiling man si Juan sa mga tawo nga dapat sila magtuo sa nagasunod sa iya, nga wala sing iban kundi si Jesus.”
Pagkabati nila sadto, ginbautisohan dayon sila sa ngalan ni Ginoong Jesus.
Kag sang pagtungtong ni Pablo sang iya kamot sa ila, nag-abot sa ila ang Espiritu Santo. Naghambal sila dayon sang nagkalain-lain nga lingguahe nga wala nila natun-i, kag may ginhambal man sila nga mga mensahi sang Dios.
Mga dose sila tanan ka lalaki.
Sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan, padayon ang pagkadto ni Pablo sa simbahan sang mga Judio. Wala siya nahadlok maghambal sa mga tawo. Nagpakigdiskusyon siya para kombinsihon sila parte sa paghari sang Dios.
Pero ang iban sa ila matig-a gid ang ulo kag indi magtuo, kag sa tunga mismo sang kadam-an ginapakalain nila ang mga sumulunod sang mga sumulunod sang Dalan nga si Jesus nga si Jesus . Gani naghalin si Pablo sa ila simbahan kaupod ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus , kag adlaw-adlaw didto siya sa eskwelahan ni Tyranus nga nagapadayon sa pagpakigdiskusyon sa mga tawo.
Sa sulod sang duha ka tuig amo ini ang iya ginahimo, gani ang tanan nga nagaestar didto sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia, Judio kag indi Judio, nakabati sang pulong sang Ginoo.
Madamo nga tumalagsahon nga milagro ang ginpanghimo sang Dios paagi kay Pablo.
Bisan ang mga panyo kag ang mga panghapin nga panapton nga iya nagamit gindala sa mga masakiton kag nag-ayo sila, kag nagguwa man ang malain nga mga espiritu.
Karon, may mga Judio didto nga nagalibot-libot nga nagatabog sang malain nga mga espiritu sa mga tawo nga ila ginsudlan. Gintilawan nila nga gamiton ang ngalan ni Ginoong Jesus para paguwaon ang malain nga mga espiritu. Nagsiling sila sa malain nga mga espiritu, “Sa ngalan
Amo man ini ang ginahimo sang pito ka anak nga lalaki ni Esceva. Si Esceva nga ini isa ka manugdumala nga pari sang mga Judio.
Gintilawan nila nga paguwaon ang malain nga espiritu sa ngalan ni Jesus Gintilawan nila nga paguwaon ang malain nga espiritu sa ngalan ni Jesus . Pero ang sabat sang malain nga espiritu sa mga anak ni Esceva amo ini, “Si Jesus kilala ko, kag si Pablo kilala ko man, pero sin-o kamo?”
Dayon gindamhagan sila sang tawo nga may malain nga espiritu kag ginsakit. Wala gid sila sang may mahimo, gani nagpalagyo sila sa sadto nga balay nga hublas kag may mga pilas.
Ini nga hitabo nabalitaan sang tanan nga Judio kag mga indi Judio nga nagaestar didto sa Efeso kag hinadlukan sila, kag napadunggan pa gid ang ngalan ni Ginoong Jesus.
Madamo nga tumuluo didto ang nagpalapit nga nag-ako kag nagsugid sang mga malain nila nga mga nahimo.
Kag madamo man sang mga madyikero
Paagi sa sini nga hitabo naglapnag pa gid ang gahom sang pulong sang Ginoo.
Pagkatapos sadto nga mga hitabo nagdesider si Pablo nga mag-agi sa Macedonia kag sa Acaya sa wala pa siya magkadto sa Jerusalem. Kag suno sa iya, halin sa Jerusalem kinahanglan makakadto man siya sa Roma.
Ginpauna niya sa Macedonia ang duha sang iya mga kabulig nga si Timoteo kag si Erastus, kag siya ya nagpabilin pa didto sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia.
Sang sadto nga tion, may natabo nga dako nga kinagamo sa Efeso sa Efeso tungod sa mga sumulunod sang mga sumulunod sang Dalan nga si Jesus nga si Jesus .
May isa ka platero
Gani ginpatawag niya ang iya mga trabahador kag ang iban pa nga mga platero. Dayon nagsiling siya sa ila, “Mga abyan, nahibaluan ninyo nga ang aton pag-asenso sa pangabuhi nagahalin sa sining aton palangitan-an.
Nakita ninyo kag nabatian ang ginahimo sining tawo nga si Pablo. Nagasiling siya nga ang mga dios nga ginahimo sang tawo indi matuod nga mga dios. Madamo ang nakombinsi kag napatalang niya diri sa Efeso kag sa bilog nga probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia.
Gani delikado ang aton palangitan-an, kay basi kon pakalainon sang mga tawo. Kag indi lang ina, kundi delikado man ang templo sang aton bantog nga diosa nga si Artemis, kay basi kon mangin wala na sing pulos ini, kag indi na pagkilalahon sang mga tawo ang aton diosa nga ginasimba indi lang diri sa Asia kundi sa bilog man nga kalibutan!”
Pagkabati sadto sang mga tawo, nangakig gid sila kag nagsugod sila sa pagsinggit, “Gamhanan si Artemis sang mga taga-Efeso!”
Kag ang kinagamo naglapnag sa bilog nga siyudad. Gindakop nila ang mga kaupod ni Pablo nga si Gaius kag si Aristarcus nga mga taga-Macedonia. Pagkatapos nagdinalagan sila tanan sa ila ginatipunan nga ginaguyod ang duha.
Gusto kuntani ni Pablo nga maghambal sa mga tawo, pero ginpunggan siya sang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus .
May mga abyan si Pablo nga mga opisyal sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia. Ini sila nagpasugo kay Pablo nga pangabayon siya nga indi gid magkadto didto sa ila ginatipunan.
Karon, ang mga tawo didto nagkinagamo na gid. Ang iban sa ila may ginasinggit nga isa ka butang, pero ang iban lain man ang ila ginasinggit, tungod nga ang kalabanan sa ila wala nakahibalo kon ngaa nagtilipon sila didto.
May tawo didto nga si Alexander nga gintulod sang mga Judio sa unahan para magpaathag nga sila nga mga Judio wala labot sa ginahimo nila ni Pablo. Ginbayaw niya ang iya kamot para pahipuson ang mga tawo.
Pero pagkahibalo sang mga tawo nga siya Judio, nagsinggit sila tanan, “Gamhanan si Artemis sang mga taga-Efeso!” Kag sa sulod sang duha ka oras amo lang ato ang ila ginasinggit.
Sang ulihi napahipos gid man sang manugdumala sang siyudad ang mga tawo. Dayon nagsiling siya, “Mga kasimanwa nga mga kasimanwa nga mga taga-Efeso, ang tanan nga tawo nakahibalo nga kita nga taga-Efeso amo ang manugtatap sang templo ni Artemis nga gamhanan kag sang sagrado nga bato nga nahulog halin sa langit.
Wala sing may makapanginwala sini. Gani, magpakatawhay kamo, kag indi kamo magpadasodaso.
Gindala ninyo diri ini nga mga tawo, bisan ini sila wala nagpangawat sa aton templo kag wala nagpakalain sang aton diosa.
Kon si Demetrius kag ang iya mga kaupod nga mga platero may kaso kontra sa bisan kay sin-o, may mga korte kag may mga manughukom kita. Dapat dal-on nila didto ang ila mga kaso.
Pero kon kamo may iban pa gid nga reklamo, ina kinahanglan aregluhon sa opisyal nga pagtilipon sang mga pumuluyo.
Karon delikado kita sa aton ginahimo nga ini. Kay basi kon iakusar kita sang mga opisyal sang Roma sang mga opisyal sang Roma sa pagpanggamo. Wala gid kita rason nga ihatag kon ngaa ginhimo ta ini.”
Pagkatapos niya hambal sini, ginpapuli niya ang mga tawo.
Sang matapos na ang kinagamo, ginpatawag ni Pablo ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus . Ginlaygayan niya sila nga magpakabakod, kag dayon naglisensya siya nga makadto sa Macedonia.
Madamo nga lugar ang iya ginpangadtuan didto sa Macedonia, kag ginpabakod niya ang mga tumuluo paagi sa iya pagwali sa ila. Dayon nagderetso siya sa Greece,
kag tatlo ka bulan ang iya pagtiner didto. Sang mabiyahe
Nag-upod sa iya si Sopater nga taga-Berea nga anak ni Pirus, si Aristarcus kag si Secundus nga mga taga-Tesalonica, si Gaius nga taga-Derbe, si Timoteo, kag ang mga taga-Asia nga si Tykicus kag si Trofimus.
Pag-abot namon sa Filipos, nag-una sila sa amon sa Troas kag didto nila kami ginhulat.
Ginpatapos namon anay ang Piesta sang Tinapay nga Wala sing Inugpahabok antes kami nagbiyahe halin sa Filipos. Lima ka adlaw ang amon biyahe kag nagkit-anay kami liwat didto sa Troas. Nagtiner kami didto sing pito ka adlaw.
Sang sabado sing gab-i, nagtipon kami sa pagpamihak-pihak sang tinapay. Kag tungod nga si Pablo mabiyahe sa sunod nga adlaw, nagwali siya hasta sang tungang gab-i.
Madamo ang mga suga didto sa ibabaw nga kuwarto nga amon ginatipunan.
May pamatan-on didto nga ang iya ngalan si Euticus nga nagapungko sa bintana. Kag tungod nga ang wali ni Pablo malawig, gintuyo siya kag sang ulihi natulugan sing hamuok kag nahulog siya sa bintana halin sa ikatlo nga panalgan.
Pero nagpanaog si Pablo, kag pag-abot niya kay Euticus, ginhap-an kag ginhakos niya siya. Dayon nagsiling siya sa mga tawo, “Indi kamo magpakulba, buhi siya!”
Kag nagbalik si Pablo sa ibabaw, nagpamihak-pihak sang tinapay kag nagkaon. Sang nakakaon na siya, nagwali pa gid siya sa ila hasta sang pagbutlak sang adlaw. Dayon naglakat siya.
Ang pamatan-on nga nahulog gindala nila puli nga buhi, kag nalipay gid sila.
Nagsakay kami sa sakayan pa-Asos, kay nagsiling si Pablo nga hapiton siya sa Asos tungod kay malakat lang siya pakadto didto.
Sang pagkitaay namon sa Asos, ginpasakay namon siya kag nagpadulong kami sa Mitilene.
Halin sa Mitilene, nagderetso pa gid kami sa Kios, kag sang sunod nga adlaw nakaabot kami didto. Sang sunod pa nga adlaw sa Samos kami, kag sang sunod pa gid nga adlaw sa Miletus na kami.
Nagdesisyon si Pablo nga indi na lang maghapit sa Efeso, kay indi niya gusto nga maatrasar siya sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia, tungod nga nagadali siya nga makaabot sa Jerusalem sa wala pa ang adlaw sang Pentecostes.
Didto sa Miletus nagpasugo si Pablo sa Efeso nga magkadto sa iya ang mga manugdumala sang iglesya.
Pag-abot nila, nagsiling si Pablo sa ila, “Nahibaluan ninyo kon paano ang akon pagginawi sang ako kaupod pa ninyo, halin gid sang akon pag-abot sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia.
Nag-alagad ako sa Ginoo nga may pagpaubos kag paghibi.
Nahibaluan man ninyo nga wala gid sang lipod-lipod ang akon pagsugid sa inyo sang mga butang nga para sa inyo kaayuhan, nga akon gintudlo sa publiko kag sa inyo mga balay.
Ginpaandaman ko ang mga Judio kag mga indi Judio nga kinahanglan maghinulsol sila sa ila mga sala kag magbalik sa Dios, kag magtuo sa aton Ginoong Jesus.
Karon, makadto ako sa Jerusalem tungod nga amo ini ang sugo sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa akon. Wala ako kahibalo kon ano ang matabo sa akon didto.
Ang akon lang nahibaluan, nga bisan diin nga siyudad ang akon ginakadtuan, ang Espiritu Santo nagapaandam sa akon nga ang prisohan kag ang paghingabot nagahulat sa akon.
Pero indi importante kon ano ang matabo sa akon, basta matapos ko lang ang buluhaton nga ginhatag sa akon ni Ginoong Jesus, nga amo ang pagwali sang Maayong Balita parte sa grasya sang Dios.
“Nalibot ko kamo tanan sa akon pagwali parte sa paghari sang Dios, kag karon nahibaluan ko nga indi na kita magkitaay liwat.
Gani sugiran ko kamo karon, nga kon may ara sa inyo nga indi maluwas, wala na ako sing salabton sa Dios.
Kay wala gid ako sing may gintago sa inyo parte sa bug-os nga katuyuan kag plano sang Dios.
Bantayi gid ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon kag ang tanan nga tawo sang Dios nga ginapabantayan sa inyo sang Espiritu Santo. Tatapa gid ninyo ang iglesya sang Dios nga iya gintubos paagi sa iya kaugalingon nga dugo.
Kay nahibaluan ko nga kon makahalin na ako may mga manunudlo dira nga daw pareho sa manunudlo dira nga daw pareho sa mabangis nga mga ido
Magaabot man ang tion nga sa inyo mismo grupo may mga tawo nga magasugid sang binutig sa pagpatalang sa mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus kag para sila ang ila pagasundon.
Gani mag-andam kamo, kag dumduma ninyo nga sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig, adlaw-gab-i wala ako nag-untat sa paglaygay sa inyo tanan nga may mga paghibi.
“Kag karon ginatugyan ko kamo sa Dios kag sa iya pulong, ang pulong nga parte sa iya grasya, nga makapabakod sang inyo pagtuo kag makahatag sa inyo sang tanan nga pagpakamaayo nga gintigana para sa tanan nga ginpain sang Dios nga mangin iya.
Wala ako naghandom sang inyo mga kuwarta kag mga bayo.
Nakahibalo gid kamo nga nag-obra ako para may galastuhon ako sa akon mga kinahanglanon kag sa akon mga kaupdanan.
Ginhimo ko ato para ipakita sa inyo nga paagi sa sini nga pagpangabudlay mabuligan ang mga imol. Dumdumon ta permi ang ginsiling ni Ginoong Jesus nga mas bulahan ang nagahatag sang sa nagabaton.”
Pagkatapos hambal ni Pablo nagluhod siya kaupod nila tanan kag nagpangamuyo.
Naghinibi sila tanan, kag ginhakos nila si Pablo kag ginhalukan.
Nagkasubo gid sila tungod kay nagsiling si Pablo nga indi na sila magkitaay liwat. Pagkatapos gindul-ong nila si Pablo sa sakayan.
Naglisensya kami sa mga manugdumala sang iglesya sa Efeso, kag nagbiyahe deretso hasta nakaabot kami sa Cos. Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagderetso kami sa isla sang Rodes. Kag halin didto nagpadayon kami sa Patara.
Didto sa Patara may nakita kami nga sakayan nga manugkadto sa Fenicia, gani nagsakay kami.
Nalantawan namon ang isla sang isla sang Cyprus, pero wala kami nagpundo didto kundi nag-agi kami sa tuo dampi kag nagderetso sa Syria. Didto kami nagpundo sa Tyre, kay nagdiskarga didto ang sakayan.
Ginpangita namon ang mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus didto, kag nagdayon kami sa ila sa sulod sang isa ka semana. Paagi sa gahom sang Espiritu Santo Santo , ginpaandaman nila si Pablo nga indi magkadto sa Jerusalem.
Pero pagkatapos sang isa ka semana, nagpadayon pa gid kami sang amon pagbiyahe. Tanan sila, pati ang ila mga asawa kag mga kabataan, nagdul-ong sa amon sa guwa sang siyudad. Nagluhod kami tanan didto sa baybay kag nagpangamuyo.
Sang nakalisensya na kami sa ila, nagsakay kami sa sakayan kag sila ya nagpuli.
Paghalin namon sa Tyre, nagpadayon kami sang amon pagbiyahe pakadto sa Tolemais. Pag-abot namon didto, nagpakigkita kami sa mga kauturan kag nagtiner kami didto sa ila sing isa ka adlaw.
Pagkatapos naglakat naman kami pa-Cesarea. Pag-abot namon didto, nagkadto kami sa balay ni Felipe nga manugwali sang Maayong Balita, kag didto kami nagdayon. Si Felipe isa sang pito ka tawo nga ginpili sang una sa Jerusalem nga magbulig sa mga apostoles ka tawo nga ginpili sang una sa Jerusalem nga magbulig sa mga apostoles .
Apat ang iya mga bata nga dalaga nga mga propeta.
Pagkaligad sang pila ka adlaw, may nag-abot man nga propeta halin sa Judea. Ang iya ngalan amo si Agabus.
Ginkadtuan niya kami kag ginkuha ang paha ni Pablo, kag gin-gapos niya ang iya kaugalingon nga mga tiil kag mga kamot. Dayon nagsiling siya, “Suno sa hambal sang Espiritu Santo, pareho man sini ang himuon sang mga Judio sa Jerusalem sa tag-iya sining paha, kag itugyan siya dayon sa mga indi Judio.”
Pagkabati namon sini, kami kag ang mga tumuluo didto nagpangabay kay Pablo nga indi na siya magkadto sa Jerusalem.
Pero nagsabat si Pablo, “Ngaa nagahinibi kamo? Ginapaluya lang ninyo ako. Handa ako nga magpagapos kag bisan mapatay pa sa Jerusalem para kay Ginoong Jesus.”
Indi gid namon makombinsi si Pablo, gani nagsiling na lang kami, “Kabay pa nga matuman ang kabubut-on sang Ginoo.”
Sang makatiner kami didto sang pila ka adlaw, naghimos kami kag nagpa-Jerusalem.
May mga sumulunod man ni Jesus ni Jesus didto nga halin sa Cesarea nga nag-upod sa amon. Gindala nila kami sa balay ni Mnason nga taga-Cyprus kag didto kami nagdayon. Si Mnason isa sang mga una nga mga sumulunod ni Jesus ni Jesus .
Pag-abot namon sa Jerusalem, malipayon nga ginbaton kami sang mga kauturan.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, kaupod namon si Pablo nga nagbisita kay Santiago. Didto man ang mga manugdumala sang iglesya sa Jerusalem sang iglesya sa Jerusalem .
Ginkumusta sila ni Pablo kag ginsugiran sila sang tanan nga ginhimo sang Dios sa mga indi Judio paagi sa iya buluhaton.
Pagkabati nila sa mga ginsugid niya, nagdayaw sila tanan sa Dios. Dayon nagsiling sila kay Pablo, “Nahibaluan mo utod, linibo na nga mga Judio ang nagatuo kay Jesus kag sila tanan nagasunod gid sa Kasuguan ni Moises.
Nakabati sila nga nagapanudlo ka sa mga Judio nga nagaestar sa lugar sang mga indi Judio nga indi na sila dapat magsunod sa Kasuguan ni Moises. Nagsiling ka kuno nga indi na nila pagtulion ang ila mga kabataan kag indi na magsunod sa iban pa nga mga kinabatasan naton nga mga Judio naton nga mga Judio .
Karon, ano ayhan ang maayo nga himuon? Kay sigurado gid nga mahibaluan nila nga diri ka na.
Maayo siguro nga himuon mo ang amon isiling sa imo. May apat diri ka lalaki nga may panaad sa Dios sa Dios .
Mag-upod ka sa ila kag himuon ninyo ang seremonya sa pagpakatinlo. Bayaran mo man ang ila mga kinahanglan sa paghalad sa Dios para makapakalbo man sila. Amo ini ang paagi nga ang tanan makahibalo nga ang mga balita nga ila nabatian parte sa imo indi matuod, tungod nga makita nila nga ikaw man nagatuman sa Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises .
Kon parte sa mga indi Judio nga nagatuo kay Jesus, nakapadala na kami sang sulat sa ila parte sa amon gindesisyunan nga indi sila magkaon sang mga pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios, ukon dugo, ukon sang karne sang sapat nga sang pagkapatay ang dugo wala nakaguwa. Kag indi sila maghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon.”
Gani sang sunod nga adlaw gindala ni Pablo atong apat ka lalaki kag nag-intra siya sa ila pagpakatinlo suno sa ila panaad. Dayon nagkadto si Pablo sa templo para isugid kon san-o matapos ang ila pagpakatinlo, kay sa tapos sini may ihalad nga mga sapat para sa tagsa-tagsa sa ila.
Sang madali na lang matapos ang ikapito nga adlaw sang ila pagpakatinlo, may mga Judio nga halin sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia nga nakakita kay Pablo sa templo. Ginsutsot nila ang tanan nga tawo didto sa templo nga dakpon si Pablo.
Nagsinggit sila, “Mga kasimanwa ko nga mga kasimanwa ko nga mga Israelinhon, bulig kamo! Amo ini ang tawo nga bisan diin siya magkadto nagapanudlo sing kontra sa aton nga mga Judio, kontra sa Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises , kag kontra sa sini nga templo. Indi lang ina, kundi gindala pa gid niya diri sa sulod sang templo ang mga tawo nga indi Judio, gani gindagtaan niya ining sagrado nga lugar!”
(Ginhambal nila ini tungod nga nakita nila si Trofimus nga taga-Efeso nga nag-upod kay Pablo didto sa Jerusalem, kag ang hunahuna nila gindala siya ni Pablo sa templo.)
Gani nagkinagamo ang mga tawo sa bilog nga Jerusalem kag nagdinaguso sila pakadto sa templo para dakpon si Pablo. Pagkadakop nila sa iya didto sa sulod, gin-guyod nila siya paguwa, kag ginsiradhan nila dayon ang puwertahan sang templo.
Patyon na nila kuntani si Pablo, pero may nagsugid sa kumander sang Romanhon nga mga soldado nga ang mga tawo sa bilog nga Jerusalem nagakinagamo.
Gani nagdala dayon ang kumander sang mga kapitan kag mga soldado didto sa mga tawo nga nagatilipon. Pagkakita sang mga tawo sa kumander kag sa mga soldado, gin-untatan nila bakol si Pablo.
Ginkadtuan sang kumander si Pablo kag ginpadakop, kag nagsugo siya nga gapuson si Pablo sang duha ka kadena. Dayon nagpamangkot ang kumander sa mga tawo, “Sin-o bala ini nga tawo kag ano ang iya nahimo?”
Pero nagkalain-lain nga sabat ang iya nabatian, kag tungod sa sobra nga kinagamo sang mga tawo indi mahibaluan sang kumander kon ano ang matuod nga natabo. Gani ginmanduan niya ang mga soldado nga dal-on si Pablo sa kampo.
Pag-abot nila sa hagdanan sang kampo, ginhakwat na lang nila si Pablo tungod sang kinagamo sang mga tawo
nga nagalagas kag nagasinggit, “Patyon siya!”
Sang dal-on na nila si Pablo sa sulod sang kampo, nagsiling siya sa kumander, “Puwede ko makaestorya sa imo?” Nagsiling ang kumander, “Makahibalo ka gali maghambal sang Griego?
Ang hunahuna ko anay nga ikaw amo ang lalaki nga taga-Egypt nga bag-o lang nagpanguna sa pagrebelde sa gobyerno. 4,000 ka tawo nga maisog kag puro armado ang iya gindala sa kamingawan.”
Nagsabat si Pablo, “Ako isa ka Judio nga taga-Tarsus nga sakop sang Cilicia. Ang Tarsus indi lang ordinaryo nga siyudad. Kon mahimo, pahambala ako anay sa mga tawo.”
Ginsugtan siya sang kumander nga maghambal, gani nagtindog si Pablo sa hagdanan kag nagsinyas sa mga tawo nga may ihambal siya. Sang naghipos na sila, naghambal siya sa Hebreo nga lingguahe:
“Mga kauturan kag mga ginikanan, pamatii ninyo anay ang akon mga rason sa pag-apin sang akon kaugalingon!”
Pagkabati sang mga tawo nga nagahambal siya sa Hebreo nga lingguahe, naghipos pa gid sila. Kag nagpadayon hambal si Pablo:
“Ako isa ka Judio nga natawo sa Tarsus nga sakop sang Cilicia, pero diri ako nagdako sa Jerusalem. Nagtuon ako diri kag nangin maestro ko si Gamaliel. Natuman ko sing maid-id ang Kasuguan nga ginsunod sang aton mga katigulangan. Kag pareho sa inyo karon, matutom man ako sa pag-alagad sa Dios.
Ginhingabot ko nga patyon ang mga sumulunod sang mga sumulunod sang Dalan nga si Jesus nga si Jesus . Indi lang ang mga lalaki kundi pati man ang mga babayi akon ginpangdakop kag ginpapriso.
Ang pangulo nga pari kag ang tanan nga miyembro sang Korte sang mga Judio makapamatuod sa sining akon ginahambal. Sila mismo ang naghatag sa akon sang mga sulat nga para sa aton kapareho nga mga Judio didto sa Damascus. Kag sa awtoridad sang mga sulat, Kag sa awtoridad sang mga sulat, nagkadto ako sa Damascus para dakpon ang mga tawo nga nagatuo kay Jesus kag dal-on pabalik diri sa Jerusalem para silutan.
“Udtong-adlaw gid sadto sang manug-abot na kami sa Damascus. Hinali lang may masilaw nga kasanag halin sa langit nga nagsiga sa akon palibot.
Natumba ako sa duta kag may nabatian ako nga tingog nga nagasiling sa akon, ‘Saulo, Saulo! Ngaa ginahingabot mo ako?’
Nagpamangkot ako, ‘Sir, sin-o ka?’ Nagsiling ang tingog sa akon, ‘Ako si Jesus nga taga-Nazaret nga imo ginahingabot.’
Nakita sang akon mga kaupdanan ang kasanag, pero wala sila nakabati
Kag nagpamangkot pa gid ako, ‘Ginoo, ano ang akon himuon?’ Nagsiling siya, ‘Tindog ka kag magkadto sa Damascus. Didto may masugid sa imo kon ano ang ipahimo sang Dios sa imo.’
Nabulag ako tungod sa kasilaw sadtong kasanag. Gani gintuytuyan ako sang akon mga kaupdanan pakadto sa Damascus.
“Didto sa Damascus may isa ka tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Ananias. Ini nga tawo matinumanon gid sa aton Kasuguan kag ginatahod sang tanan nga Judio nga nagaestar didto.
Nagkadto siya sa akon kag nagsiling, ‘Utod, makakita ka na.’ Kag sa gilayon nagbalik ang akon panulok kag nagbalik ang akon panulok kag nakita ko si Ananias.
Nagsiling siya sa akon, ‘Ginpili ka sang Dios sang aton katigulangan para mahibaluan mo ang iya kabubut-on, kag para makita mo ang Matarong nga Alagad nga Alagad
Kay magasugid ka sa tanan sang imo nakita kag nabatian.
Gani indi ka na mag-atrasar. Tindog ka! Magpabautiso ka kag magpanawag sa iya para patawaron ang imo mga sala.’
“Pagkatapos sadto nagbalik ako sa Jerusalem, kag sang nagapangamuyo ako sa templo may nakita ako nga palanan-awon.
Nakita ko si Ginoong Jesus nga nagasiling sa akon, ‘Dali-dali ka halin diri sa Jerusalem, kay ang mga tawo diri indi magbaton sang imo ginasugid parte sa akon.’
Nagsiling ako sa iya, ‘Pero, Ginoo, ngaa indi sila magpati kay ngaa indi sila magpati kay sila mismo nakahibalo nga sadto anay naglibot ako sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio para dakpon kag sakiton ang mga tawo nga nagatuo sa imo?
Kag sang pagpatay kay Esteban nga imo manugpamatuod, isa man ako didto sang mga nagkomporme nga patyon siya, kag ako pa gani ang nagbantay sang mga pangtabon nga panapton sang mga nagpatay sa iya.’
Pero nagsiling liwat ang Ginoo sa akon, ‘Halin ka diri, tungod nga ipadala ko ikaw sa malayo nga lugar para iwali mo ang Maayong Balita para iwali mo ang Maayong Balita sa mga indi Judio.’ ”
Pagkahambal sini ni Pablo, wala na nagpamati sa iya ang mga tawo. Nagsinggit sila, “Patya ninyo siya! Indi dapat mabuhi ang tawo nga pareho sina!”
Sige ang ila sininggit, kag ginauba nila ang ila mga bayo kag nagasabwag sila sang yab-ok sa ibabaw.
Gani nagmando ang kumander sa iya mga soldado sa iya mga soldado nga pasudlon na si Pablo sa kampo kag hanuton para magsugid siya kon ano nga sala ang iya nahimo nga nangin kabangdanan kon ngaa ang mga Judio nagsinggit kontra sa iya.
Pero sang ginagapos na nila si Pablo para hanuton, nagsiling si Pablo sa kapitan nga nagatindog didto sa tupad niya, “Tugot bala sa kasuguan nga hanuton ninyo ang tawo nga Romanhon bisan wala pa nahukman kon may sala siya?”
Pagkabati sadto sang kapitan, ginkadtuan niya ang kumander kag ginsilingan, “Ano ining ginapahimo mo? Ini nga tawo Romanhon gali!”
Gani, nagkadto ang kumander kay Pablo kag nagpamangkot, “Sugiri ako. Romanhon ka bala?” Nagsabat si Pablo, “Huo.”
Nagsiling dayon ang kumander, “Ako nangin Romanhon paagi sa pagbayad sing dako nga kantidad.” Nagsabat si Pablo, “Pero ako Romanhon halin sang akon pagkatawo.”
Nag-isol dayon ang mga soldado nga magahanot na kuntani kay Pablo. Hinadlukan man ang kumander tungod nga ginpakadenahan niya si Pablo nga Romanhon gali.
Gusto pa gid masiguro sang kumander kon ngaa ginaakusar sang mga Judio si Pablo. Gani sang sunod nga adlaw ginpahubaran niya si Pablo sang mga kadena kag nagpatawag siya sang meeting sa manugdumala nga mga pari kag sa bilog nga Korte sang mga Judio. Dayon gindala niya si Pablo didto sa ila.
Gintulok maayo ni Pablo ang mga miyembro sang Korte kag naghambal, “Mga kauturan, kon parte sa akon pagkabuhi, matinlo ang akon konsensya sa Dios hasta subong.”
Paghambal sadto ni Pablo, ginsugo sang pangulo nga pari nga si Ananias ang mga nagatindog malapit kay Pablo nga tampaon ang iya baba.
Nagsiling si Pablo sa iya, “Tampaon ka man sang Dios, ikaw nga hipokrito! Nagapungko ka dira para husgaran ako suno sa Kasuguan, pero ginalapas mo man ang Kasuguan sa imo pagsugo nga tampaon ako!”
Nagsiling ang mga tawo nga nagatindog malapit kay Pablo, “Ginainsulto mo ang pangulo nga pari sang Dios!”
Nagsabat si Pablo, “Mga kauturan, wala ako nakahibalo nga siya gali ang pangulo nga pari, tungod nga nagasiling ang Kasulatan, ‘Indi ninyo paghambalan sang malain ang nagadumala sa inyo.’
Sang makita ni Pablo nga may mga Saduceo kag mga Pariseo nga nagatambong didto, naghambal siya sing mabaskog sa mga miyembro sang Korte, “Mga kauturan, ako isa ka Pariseo, kag Pariseo man ang akon amay kag ang akon mga katigulangan. Ginaakusar ako diri subong tungod nga nagalaom ako nga may pagkabanhaw.”
Pagkahambal niya sini, nagkinagamo ang mga Pariseo kag ang mga Saduceo kag nagbinahin-bahin ang mga miyembro sang Korte.
Natabo ato tungod nga suno sa mga Saduceo wala sing pagkabanhaw. Wala man sila nagapati nga may mga anghel ukon mga espiritu. Pero ini tanan ginapatihan sang mga Pariseo.
Gani ang resulta, nag-amat-amat baskog ang pagsininggit. May mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan nga mga Pariseo nga nagtindog kag nagpamatok gid nga nagasiling, “Wala kami sing may nakita nga sala sa sini nga tawo. Ayhan may espiritu ukon anghel nga nagpakighambal sa iya!”
Nag-init pa gid ang ila pagbinais, hasta nga hinadlukan ang kumander kay basi kon pulihan
Pagkagab-i nagpakita ang Ginoo kay Pablo kag nagsiling, “Indi ka magkahadlok! Kay kon paano ka nagsugid parte sa akon diri sa Jerusalem, kinahanglan nga amo man ina ang imo himuon didto sa Roma.”
Pagkatapos nagkadto sila sa manugdumala nga mga pari kag sa mga manugdumala sang mga Judio kag nagsiling, “Nagpanumpa kami nga indi kami magkaon bisan ano hasta indi namon mapatay si Pablo.
Gani kamo kag ang Korte magpahibalo sa kumander nga gusto ninyo nga ipadala niya liwat diri sa inyo si Pablo. Magpakuno-kuno kamo nga gusto ninyo mag-imbistigar sa iya sing maid-id. Pero sa wala pa siya makaabot diri patyon namon siya.”
Pero ining plano nabatian sang hinablos nga lalaki ni Pablo, ang anak sang iya utod nga babayi. Gani nagkadto siya sa kampo kag ginsugiran niya si Pablo.
Dayon gintawag ni Pablo ang isa sang mga kapitan didto kag nagsiling, “Dal-a ang pamatan-on nga ini didto sa kumander, kay may isugid siya sa iya.”
Gani gindala siya sang kapitan didto sa kumander. Pag-abot nila didto, nagsiling ang kapitan, “Gintawag ako sang priso nga si Pablo, kag nagpangabay siya nga dal-on ko diri sa imo ini nga pamatan-on, kay may isugid siya kuno sa imo.”
Gin-uyatan sang kumander ang kamot sang pamatan-on kag gindala niya siya sa lugar nga indi sila mabatian sang iban. Dayon ginpamangkot niya siya, “Ano bala ang imo inugsugid sa akon?”
Nagsiling ang pamatan-on, “Nagsugtanay ang mga Judio nga pangabayon ka nila nga dal-on si Pablo sa Korte buwas, kay imbistigaron kuno nila sing maid-id.
Pero indi ka magpati sa ila, kay sobra 40 ka tawo ang magabantay kag magabangga sa iya. Nagpanumpa sila nga indi sila magkaon kag mag-inom hasta indi nila mapatay si Pablo. Preparado na sila kag nagahulat na lang sang imo pagtugot.”
Nagsiling ang kumander sa iya, “Indi ka gid magpanugid bisan kay sin-o nga ginsugiran mo ako sini.” Dayon ginpapuli niya ang pamatan-on.
Ginpatawag dayon sang kumander ang duha sang iya mga kapitan kag nagsiling sa ila, “Magpreparar kamo sang 200 ka soldado, kay ipadala ko kamo sa Cesarea. Magdala man kamo sang 70 ka manugkabayo kag 200 man ka soldado nga manugbangkaw. Kag maglakat kamo karon sa gab-i sa mga alas nuebe.
Magpreparar man kamo sang mga kabayo nga pagasakyan ni Pablo. Bantayan gid ninyo siya sing maayo para indi siya maano hasta makaabot siya kay Gobernador Felix.”
Kag nagsulat dayon ang kumander sa Gobernador nga nagasiling:
“ Ako, si Ako, si Claudius Lysias, nagapangamusta sa imo, Talahuron nga Gobernador Felix.
Ang tawo nga ini nga akon ginpadala sa imo nga akon ginpadala sa imo gindakop sang mga Judio kag patyon na nila kuntani. Pero pagkahibalo ko nga siya Romanhon, nagdala ako sang mga soldado para luwason siya.
Gusto ko kuntani nga mahibaluan kon ano ang ila akusasyon sa tawo nga ini, gani gindala ko siya sa ila Korte.
Kag suno sa akon pagpangusisa, wala gid siya sing may nahimo nga malain para patyon siya ukon prisohon. Ang akusasyon kontra sa iya parte lang gid sa ila kaugalingon nga kasuguan.
Gani sang pagkahibalo ko nga ini siya ginplanohan na sang mga Judio nga patyon, napinsaran ko nga mas maayo pa kon ipadala ko siya dira sa imo. Kag ginsilingan ko na ang mga may reklamo kontra sa iya nga sa imo nila dal-on ang ila akusasyon.”
Gintuman sang mga soldado ang ginmando sa ila. Kag sa sadto nga gab-i ginkuha nila si Pablo kag gindala sa Antipatris.
Pagkaaga, nagbalik sa kampo ang mga soldado nga nagalakat. Ang mga nagasakay sa kabayo amo lang ang nag-upod kay Pablo.
Pag-abot nila sa Cesarea, ginhatag nila ang sulat sa Gobernador kag gin-intrigar si Pablo sa iya.
Pagbasa niya sang sulat, ginpamangkot niya si Pablo kon taga-diin siya nga probinsya. Pagkahibalo niya nga taga-Cilicia si Pablo,
nagsiling siya, “Pamatian ko ang imo kaso kon mag-abot na ang mga nag-akusar sa imo.” Kag ginpabantayan niya si Pablo didto sa palasyo nga ginpahimo ni Herodes.
Sang makaligad ang lima ka adlaw, nagkadto sa Cesarea si Ananias nga pangulo nga pari. Kaupod niya ang pila ka manugdumala sang mga Judio kag ang abogado nga si Tertulus. Nag-atubang sila kay Gobernador Felix kag ginsugid nila sa iya ang ila akusasyon kontra kay Pablo.
Pagtawag kay Pablo, nagsugod si Tertulus sa pag-akusar kay Pablo. Nagsiling siya, “Talahuron nga Gobernador, tungod sa imo maayo nga pagdumala naeksperiensyahan namon ang malawig nga kalinong. Kag madamo ang imo nahimo nga kaayuhan para sa amon nasyon.
Gani dako gid ang amon pagpasalamat sa imo kag indi gid namon ini malipatan.
Karon, tungod nga indi namon gusto nga maatrasar ang imo oras, ginapangabay ko lang nga kon mahimo, pamatii kami anay sing makadali lang.
Nakita namon nga ini nga tawo perwisyo. Nagadala siya sang gamo sa mga Judio sa bilog nga kalibutan, kag nagadumala siya sang sekta nga ginatawag Nazaretnon.
Bisan ang amon templo gintinguhaan niya nga dagtaan. Gani gindakop namon siya. Sentensyahan na namon siya kuntani suno sa amon Kasuguan,
pero nag-abot ang kumander nga si Lysias kag ginpuwersa niya kuha sa amon si Pablo.
Dayon nagsiling siya nga kon sin-o ang may akusasyon kontra kay Pablo kinahanglan magkadto sa imo.
Kag nagsiling man ang mga lider sang mga lider sang mga Judio, “Matuod gid ang tanan niya nga ginasugid.”
Pagkatapos sadto, ginsinyasan sang Gobernador si Pablo nga siya naman ang maghambal. Dayon nagsiling si Pablo, “Nahibaluan ko nga madugay ka na nga nangin hukom sa sini nga nasyon. Gani ginakalipay ko ang pagpangapin sang akon kaugalingon sa imo atubangan.
Kon imo usisaon, mahibaluan mo nga dose pa lang ka adlaw ang nagligad nga nag-abot ako sa Jerusalem para magsimba.
Ini nga mga Judio wala gid nakakita nga nagpakigbais ako bisan kay sin-o ukon naggamo sang mga tawo didto sa templo, ukon sa mga simbahan sang mga Judio, ukon sa bisan diin nga lugar sa siyudad sang Jerusalem sang Jerusalem .
Indi gani nila mapamatud-an sa imo nga matuod ang ila mga akusasyon sa akon.
Pero ang akon ginaako sa imo amo ini: ginasimba ko ang Dios sang amon mga katigulangan bilang sumulunod sang sumulunod sang Dalan nga si Jesus nga si Jesus nga ginatawag nila nga sekta. Pero nagatuo man ako sa tanan nga nasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises kag sa tanan nga sinulatan sang mga propeta.
Ang akon paglaom sa Dios pareho man sang ila paglaom, nga ang tanan nga tawo, maayo kag malain, pagabanhawon niya.
Gani ginatinguhaan ko nga maghimo sang maayo para limpyo permi ang akon konsensya sa Dios kag sa mga tawo.
“Pagkaligad sang pila ka tuig nga wala ako sa Jerusalem, nagbalik ako didto para magdala sang kuwarta nga bulig sa akon imol nga imol nga mga kasimanwa kag para makahalad man ako sa Dios didto sa templo.
Kag naabtan nila ako didto sa templo nga nagahalad pagkatapos sang akon pagpakatinlo. Diutay lang ang mga tawo didto sang sadto nga tion; kag wala sing kinagamo.
Pero may mga Judio didto nga halin sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia.
Pero tungod kay wala sila diri, pasugira ang mga tawo nga ari diri kon ano nga sala ang ila nakita sa akon sang gin-imbistigar ako sang Korte.
Kay wala ako sing iban nga ginhambal sang nagatindog ako didto kundi ini: ‘Ginaakusar ninyo ako subong tungod nga nagapati ako nga ang mga patay pagabanhawon.’ ”
Tungod nga madamo na ang nahibaluan sadto ni Felix parte sa mga sumulunod sang mga sumulunod sang Dalan nga si Jesus nga si Jesus , gin-untat niya ang hearing. Nagsiling siya, “Desisyunan ko ugaling ang kaso nga ini kon mag-abot na diri si kumander Lysias.”
Pagkatapos ginmanduan niya ang kapitan nga pabantayan si Pablo, pero hatagan man siya sing diutay nga kahilwayan, kag tugutan ang iya mga abyan sa pagbulig sa iya mga kinahanglanon.
Pagkaligad sang pila ka adlaw, nagbalik si Felix kag gindala niya ang iya asawa nga si Drusila, nga isa ka Judio. Ginpatawag niya si Pablo kag nagpamati siya sa iya pagpaathag parte sa pagtuo kay Cristo Jesus.
Pero sang nagahambal na si Pablo parte sa matarong nga kabuhi, sa pagpugong sang kaugalingon, kag parte sa palaabuton nga adlaw sang paghukom, hinadlukan si Felix kag nagsiling siya kay Pablo, “Husto na lang ina anay! Ipatawag ko lang liwat ikaw ugaling kon may tiyempo ako.”
Permi niya ginapatawag si Pablo kag magpakighambal sa iya, kay nagapaabot-abot siya nga hatagan siya ni Pablo sing kuwarta.
Pagkaligad sang duha ka tuig, ginbuslan si Felix ni Porcius Festus bilang gobernador. Tungod nga gusto ni Felix nga maluyagan siya sang mga Judio, ginpabay-an niya si Pablo sa prisohan.
Karon, nag-abot si Festus sa probinsya sang Judea bilang gobernador sang Judea bilang gobernador , kag pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw, nagkadto siya sa Jerusalem halin sa Cesarea.
Didto ginsugid sa iya sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga pangulo sang mga Judio ang ila akusasyon kontra kay Pablo.
Kag ginpangabay nila si Festus nga hatagan sila pabor, nga ipadala niya si Pablo sa Jerusalem. (Pero ang ila plano gali banggaan nila si Pablo sa dalan kag patyon.)
Nagsabat si Festus, “Didto na lang si Pablo sa prisohan sa Cesarea. Indi ako magdugay diri kay mabalik ako didto.
Gani paupda ninyo sa akon ang inyo mga pangulo kag didto ninyo siya iakusar kon may malain siya nga nahimo.”
Sobra isa ka semana ang tiner ni Festus sa Jerusalem, pagkatapos nagbalik siya sa Cesarea. Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagpungko siya sa hukmanan kag nagsugo nga pasudlon si Pablo.
Pagsulod ni Pablo, ginpalibutan siya dayon sang mga Judio nga halin sa Jerusalem, kag madamo ang ila ginsugid nga mabug-at nga mga akusasyon kontra sa iya nga indi man nila gani mapamatud-an.
Gin-apinan ni Pablo ang iya kaugalingon. Siling niya, “Wala ako sing may nahimo nga sala kontra sa Kasuguan sang mga Judio, sa templo, ukon sa Emperador sang Roma.”
Tungod nga gusto ni Festus nga maluyagan siya sang mga Judio, ginpamangkot niya si Pablo, “Gusto mo bala nga magkadto sa Jerusalem kag didto ko pamatian ining imo kaso?”
Nagsabat si Pablo, “Diri ako nagatindog sa hukmanan sang Emperador, kag diri mo ako dapat sentensyahan. Wala ako sang may nahimo nga malain sa mga Judio kag nahibaluan mo man ina sing maayo.
Kon nakalapas gid man ako sang kasuguan kag dapat ako silutan sing kamatayon, batunon ko ang sentensya sa akon. Pero kon wala sing kamatuoran ang ila mga akusasyon kontra sa akon, indi ako dapat itugyan sa ila. Gani madangop na lang ako sa Emperador sang Roma!”
Nagpakig-estorya dayon si Festus sa mga miyembro sang iya korte, kag pagkatapos nagsiling siya kay Pablo, “Tungod nga madangop ka sa Emperador, ipadala ko ikaw sa Emperador.”
Sang makaligad ang pila ka adlaw, nag-abot sa Cesarea si Haring Agripa
Sang makatiner sila didto sang pila ka adlaw, ginsugid ni Festus sa hari ang kaso ni Pablo. Nagsiling siya, “May priso diri nga ginbilin sang gobernador anay nga si Felix.
Pagkadto ko sa Jerusalem, ini nga tawo gin-akusar sa akon sang manugdumala nga mga pari kag sang mga manugdumala sang mga Judio. Ginpangayo gid nila sa akon nga sentensyahan ko siya nga silutan.
Nagsiling ako sa ila nga indi batasan sang mga Romanhon nga silutan ang bisan sin-o nga wala pa mapaatubang sa mga nag-akusar sa iya, kag wala pa mahatagi sang kahigayunan nga masabat niya ang mga akusasyon kontra sa iya.
Gani nag-upod sila sa akon pagbalik diri sa Cesarea. Wala ako nag-usik sang tiyempo, kundi sang sunod nga adlaw nagpungko ako sa hukmanan kag ginpatawag ko ini nga tawo.
Naghunahuna ako nga may mabug-at gid sila nga akusasyon kontra sa iya, pero sang nagaatubangay na sila, wala man gali sila sing may gin-akusar nga malain gid kontra sa iya.
Ang mga butang nga ginbaisan nila wala sing iban kundi ang parte lang sa ila mga pagtuluohan kag parte sa isa ka tawo nga ang iya ngalan si Jesus. Patay na ini nga tawo, pero suno kay Pablo buhi siya.
Indi ako makahibalo kon ano ang akon himuon sa sini nga kaso, gani ginpamangkot ko si Pablo kon gusto niya nga magkadto sa Jerusalem kag didto mismo pamatian ang iya kaso.
Pero nagsiling si Pablo nga madangop na lang siya sang iya kaso sa Emperador para ang Emperador mismo ang mahusgar. Gani nagmando ako nga bantayan siya hasta mapadala ko siya sa Emperador.”
Nagsiling si Agripa kay Festus, “Gusto ko gid nga mabatian ini nga tawo.” Nagsiling si Festus, “Sige, buwas mabatian mo siya.”
Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagkadto sa korte si Agripa kag si Bernice nga puwerte ang pagpadayaw sa ila pagkaharianon. Madamo nga opisyal sang mga soldado kag mga kilala nga mga tawo sa siyudad ang nag-upod sa ila. Dayon nagmando si Festus nga dal-on sa sulod si Pablo. Sang si Pablo didto na sa sulod,
nagsiling si Festus, “Haring Agripa kag kamo tanan nga diri subong, ari ang tawo nga gin-akusar sa akon sang mga Judio diri sa Cesarea kag sa Jerusalem. Nagsinggit sila nga ini nga tawo indi dapat mabuhi.
Pero suno sa akon pag-imbistigar wala gid ako sing may nakita nga malain nga nahimo ang ini nga tawo para sentensyahan sang kamatayon. Kag tungod nga nagdangop siya sa Emperador, nagdesisyon ako nga ipadala siya sa Emperador.
Pero wala gid ako sang isulat sa Emperador kon ngaa ginapadala ko siya didto. Gani ginapaatubang ko siya sa inyo, kag labi na gid sa imo Haring Agripa, para sa tapos nga mausisa ta ang iya kaso, may isulat na ako.
Tungod nga indi puwede nga ipadala ko sa Emperador ang isa ka priso nga wala gid sang maathag nga akusasyon kontra sa iya.”
Dayon nagsiling si Agripa kay Pablo, “Sige, ginatugutan ka nga maghambal sa pagdepensa sang imo kaugalingon.” Gani nagsinyas si Pablo nga mahambal na siya. Nagsiling siya,
“Haring Agripa, maayo gid nga makahambal ako subong sa pagpangapin sang akon kaugalingon sa imo atubangan parte sa tanan nga akusasyon sang mga Judio kontra sa akon.
Labi na gid nga nahibaluan mo sing maayo ang tanan nga kinabatasan sang mga Judio kag ang mga ginadibatihan nila. Gani nagapangabay ako nga kon mahimo pamatian mo ang akon ihambal.
“Nahibaluan sang mga Judio kon ano ang akon pagkabuhi sa akon banwa kag sa Jerusalem, sugod sang bata pa ako.
Kon magsugid lang sila sang matuod, sila mismo makapamatuod nga halin pa sang una, miyembro ako sang mga Pariseo nga amo ang pinakaistrikto nga sekta sa relihiyon sang mga Judio.
Kag ari ako diri sa korte nga ginahukman tungod kay nagapaabot ako nga himuon sang Dios ang iya ginpromisa sa amon mga katigulangan.
Kami nga dose ka tribo nagapaabot nga ini matabo gid. Gani adlaw-gab-i ginasimba namon ang Dios. Kag Haring Agripa, tungod sa akon pagtuo sa sini nga butang ginaakusar ako sang mga Judio.
Kag kamo nga mga Judio, Kag kamo nga mga Judio, ngaa sa pagtan-aw ninyo indi mapatihan nga ang Dios sarang makabanhaw sang mga patay?
“Sang una ako mismo naghunahuna nga dapat ko himuon ang akon masarangan para kontrahon ang ngalan ni Jesus nga taga-Nazaret.
Amo ini ang akon ginhimo anay didto sa Jerusalem. Paagi sa awtoridad nga ginhatag sa akon sang manugdumala nga mga pari, madamo nga katawhan sang Dios ang akon ginpapriso. Kag pagkatapos nga sila ginsentensyahan nga patyon, nagkomporme man ako.
Madamo nga beses nga ginlibot ko ang mga simbahan sang mga Judio para pangitaon sila, kag silutan para piliton nga insultuhon si Jesus si Jesus . Sa sobra ko nga kaakig sa ila, nakalambot ako sa malayo nga mga siyudad sa paghingabot sa ila.
“Amo ini ang rason kon ngaa nagkadto ako sa Damascus nga may dala nga sulat halin sa manugdumala nga mga pari. Ato nga sulat naghatag sa akon sang awtoridad kag nagasiling kon ano ang akon pagahimuon didto.
Udtong-adlaw sadto, Haring Agripa, kag sang nagalakat ako, may kasanag halin sa langit nga masilaw pa sa adlaw nga naglikop sa akon kag sa akon mga kaupod.
Natumba kami tanan sa duta, kag may nabatian ako nga tingog nga naghambal sa akon sa Hebreo nga lingguahe: ‘Saulo, Saulo! Ngaa ginahingabot mo ako? Ginasilutan mo lang ang imo kaugalingon. Pareho lang nga nagasipa ka sa taliwis nga kahoy.’
Nagpamangkot ako, ‘Sir, sin-o ka?’ Nagsabat ang Ginoo, ‘Ako si Jesus nga imo ginahingabot.
Bangon ka kag magtindog. Nagpakita ako sa imo kay ginpili ko ikaw nga mangin akon alagad. Isugid mo sa iban ang parte sa akon pagpakita sa imo subong, kag ang mga butang nga ipahayag ko sa imo sa palaabuton.
Luwason ko ikaw sa mga Judio kag sa mga indi Judio. Suguon ko ikaw sa ila
sa pagpamuklat sang ila mga mata para magliso sila halin sa kadudulman pakadto sa kasanag, kag halin sa gahom ni Satanas pakadto sa Dios. Kag paagi sa ila pagtuo sa akon, patawaron sila sa ila mga sala, kag makaupod na sila sa mga ginpain sang Dios nga mangin iya.’
“Gani, Haring Agripa, gintuman ko ang palanan-awon nga ginpakita sa akon halin sa langit.
Premiro nagwali ako sa Damascus kag dayon sa Jerusalem. Halin sa Jerusalem ginlibot ko ang bilog nga Judea, kag ginkadtuan ko man ang mga indi Judio. Ginwalihan ko sila nga dapat sila maghinulsol sa ila mga sala kag magpalapit sa Dios, kag ipakita nila paagi sa ila mga binuhatan nga sila matuod gid nga naghinulsol.
Amo ini ang rason nga gindakop ako sang mga Judio didto sa templo kag gintinguhaan gid nila nga patyon.
Pero ginbuligan ako sang Dios hasta subong nga adlaw. Gani ari ako diri para isugid sa tanan, sa mga kubos kag mga dungganon, ang ginsiling man anay sang mga propeta kag ni Moises nga magakalatabo:
nga ang Cristo dapat mag-antos kag mapatay, kag mangin una nga mabanhaw halin sa kamatayon para maghatag sing kasanag sa mga Judio kag sa mga indi Judio.”
Sang nagahambal pa si Pablo, nagsinggit si Festus, “Pablo, nagbuang ka na! Ang imo sobra nga tinun-an amo ang nagapabuang sa imo!”
Nagsabat si Pablo, “Halangdon nga Festus, wala ako nagbuang. Matuod ang akon mga ginahambal kag husto ang akon hunahuna.
Ini nga mga butang nahibaluan ni Haring Agripa. Gani wala ako nagakahadlok maghambal sa iya. Kombinsido ako nga ini tanan nga butang nahibaluan na niya, tungod ini wala natabo sa tago lang.
Haring Agripa, nagapati ka bala sa mga ginasiling sang mga propeta? Nahibaluan ko nga nagapati ka.”
Nagsabat si Agripa, “Siguro ang pinsar mo makombinsi mo ako gilayon nga mangin Kristohanon.”
Nagsabat si Pablo, “Sa madali ukon sa madugay, ang akon pangamuyo sa Dios nga indi lang ikaw kundi ang tanan man nga nagapamati sa akon subong mangin Kristohanon pareho sa akon, luwas lang sa sining akon pagkapriso.”
Dayon nagtindog ang hari, ang gobernador, si Bernice, kag ang tanan nga nagapungko didto.
Sang nagguwa sila, nagsiling sila sa isa kag isa, “Wala sing may nahimo nga malain ang ini nga tawo nga dapat sentensyahan nga patyon ukon prisohon.”
Nagsiling si Agripa kay Festus, “Kon wala lang siya magdangop sang iya kaso sa Emperador, puwede na siya kuntani buy-an.”
Pagkatapos nga nakadesisyon sila nga palargahon kami pa-Italia, gin-intrigar nila si Pablo kag ang iban pa gid nga mga priso kay Julius. Si Julius nga ini kapitan sang Romanhon nga mga soldado nga kon tawgon “Batalyon sang Emperador.”
Karon, didto sa Cesarea didto sa Cesarea may isa ka sakayan nga halin sa Adramitium nga manuglarga pakadto sa mga pier sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia. Amo ang amon ginsakyan. Nag-upod sa amon si Aristarcus nga taga-Tesalonica nga sakop sang Macedonia.
Sang sunod nga adlaw, nagdungka kami sa Sidon. Maayo ang pagtratar ni Julius kay Pablo. Gintugutan niya si Pablo nga magbisita sa iya mga abyan didto para mabuligan siya sa iya mga kinahanglanon.
Paghalin namon sa Sidon, nagbiyahe kami sa pihak sang isla sang isla sang Cyprus nga lipod sa hangin, tungod kay ang hangin nagasugata sa amon.
Gintabok namon ang dagat nga nagaatubang sa Cilicia kag Pamfilia, kag nagdungka kami sa Myra nga sakop sang Lycia.
Nakakita didto ang kapitan nga si Julius nga si Julius sang isa ka sakayan nga halin sa Alexandria nga makadto sa Italia, gani ginpasaylo niya kami didto.
Sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw, mahinay ang amon pagbiyahe, kag ginbudlayan gid kami hasta nakalambot kami malapit sa Cnidus. Tungod nga sugata gid ang hangin, indi kami makaderetso sa amon kaladtuan. Gani nagbiyahe kami sa pihak sang isla sang isla sang Crete nga lipod sa hangin, kag didto kami nag-agi malapit sa Salmone.
Nagpangalihid lang kami, pero ginbudlayan gid kami antes nakaabot sa lugar nga ginatawag “Maayo nga mga Dulungkaan.” Malapit ini sa banwa sang Lasea.
Nagdugay kami didto hasta naabtan kami sang tiyempo nga delikado ang pagbiyahe, kay nakaligad na ang Adlaw sang Adlaw sang Pagpuasa
“Ginabanta ko nga delikado na kon magderetso kita, kag indi lang ang mga karga kag ang sakayan ang madula kundi basi pati ang aton kabuhi.”
Pero mas nakombinsi ang kapitan sang mga soldado sa hambal sang kapitan sang sakayan kag sang tag-iya sini sang sa hambal ni Pablo.
Kag tungod nga ang dungkaan didto indi maayo nga palalipdan sa mabaskog nga hangin, kalabanan sang amon mga kaupod nagkomporme nga magbiyahe, sa tuyo nga basi pa makalambot kami sa Fenix kag didto magtiner samtang tigmaladlos pa. Kay ang Fenix isa ka dulungkaan sa Crete nga may maayo nga pulunduhan kon tigmaladlos.
Naghinay-hinay ang hangin halin sa south, kag naghunahuna ang amon mga kaupod nga puwede na kami makabiyahe. Gani ginbatak nila ang angkla kag nagbiyahe kami nga nagapangalihid sa isla sang isla sang Crete.
Sa wala madugay, nagbaskog ang hangin halin sa north, nga halin sa takas sang isla sang Crete sang Crete .
Pag-abot sang mabaskog nga hangin sa amon, indi na makaabante ang sakayan, gani nagpaanod na lang kami kon diin kami dal-on sang hangin.
Sang sa south na kami dampi sang gamay nga isla sang Cauda, nakapalipod-lipod kami sing diutay. Bisan nabudlayan kami, nabatak pa namon ang baruto para indi maano.
Sang nabatak na ang baruto, gin-gaid ini sing hugot sa sakayan. Kag tungod nga nahadlok sila nga mabara ang sakayan sa pasil malapit sa Libya
Sige pa gid ang mabaskog nga bagyo, gani sang sunod nga adlaw, nagsugod sila pamilak sa dagat sang mga kargaminto.
Sang sunod pa gid nga adlaw, ang mga kagamitan na mismo sang sakayan ang ila ginpamilak.
Sa sulod sang pila ka adlaw wala magpakita ang adlaw kag mga bituon kag sige pa gid ang bagyo. Sang ulihi nadulaan na kami sang paglaom nga maluwas pa.
Pila na ka adlaw nga ang mga tawo wala gid makakaon, gani nagsiling si Pablo sa ila, “Mga abyan, kon nagpati lang kamo sa akon nga indi kita dapat maghalin sa Crete, wala kuntani matabo ini nga mga kabudlayan kag mga kapierdihan.
Pero karon nagapangabay ako sa inyo nga magpakaisog kamo tungod nga wala sing may mapatay sa aton. Ang sakayan lang ang maguba.
Kay kagab-i ang Dios nga nagapanag-iya sa akon kag akon ginaalagad nagpasugo sang anghel diri sa akon.
Nagsiling siya, ‘Pablo, indi ka magkahadlok. Dapat ka mag-atubang sa Emperador didto sa Roma. Kag sa kaluoy sang Dios ang tanan mo nga upod diri sa sakayan maluwas tungod sa imo.’
Gani mga abyan, indi na kamo magkahadlok, kay nagasalig ako sa Dios nga matuman ang iya ginhambal sa akon.
Pero idagsa kita sa isa ka isla.”
Ika-14 na nga gab-i nga gin-anod kami sang bagyo sa Dagat sang Adria,
Gani gintungkad nila ang dagat kag nasapwan nila nga mga 20 ka dupa ang iya kadalumon. Dugay-dugay gintungkad liwat nila kag mga 15 na lang ka dupa.
Kag tungod nga nahadlok sila nga makabunggo kami sa mga bato, ginpunduhan nila sang apat ka angkla ang buli sang sakayan. Kag nagpangamuyo sila nga mag-aga na.
Gusto kuntani sang mga tripulante nga magpalagyo sa sakayan. Gani ginpapanaog nila ang baruto sa dagat nga nagapakuno-kuno nga magahulog lang sila sang mga angkla sa dulong.
Pero nagsiling si Pablo sa kapitan kag sa mga soldado, “Kon maghalin ang mga tripulante sa sakayan indi kamo makaluwas.”
Gani gin-utod sang mga soldado ang mga kalat nga higot sang baruto kag ginpabay-an na lang nila nga maanod ang baruto.
Sang kaagahon na, ginpilit sila tanan ni Pablo nga magkaon. Nagsiling siya, “Duha na ka semana ang inyo paghulat-hulat nga maglampuwas ang bagyo, kag wala gid kamo nakakaon.
Gani magkaon kamo anay para makasurvive kamo, kay wala gid sing may mapatay sa inyo bisan isa.”
Sang makahambal sini si Pablo, nagkuha siya sang tinapay, kag sa atubangan sang tanan nagpasalamat siya sa Dios. Dayon ginpamihak-pihak niya ang tinapay kag nagkaon.
Nabuhi ang ila paglaom kag nagkaon sila tanan.
(276 kami tanan nga nagsakay didto sa sakayan.)
Sang nakakaon ang tanan kag nabusog na, ginpanghulog nila sa dagat ang ila mga dala nga uyas para magmag-an ang sakayan.
Pagkaaga, wala nahibaluan sang mga tripulante kon diin na kami nga lugar, pero may nakita sila nga isa ka tinagong dagat nga may baybayon, gani nagsugtanay sila nga didto nila ipabara ang sakayan.
Gani ginpang-utod nila ang mga kalat nga nahigot sa mga angkla. Ginpanghubad man nila ang mga kalat nga nahigot sa timon. Dayon, ginbatak nila ang layag sa dulong para paliron sila pabaybayon.
Pero sang ulihi nakabunggo ang sakayan sa pasil kag nabara, kay nag-ungot ang iya dulong. Ang buli sang sakayan amat-amat nga nawasak tungod sang mabaskog nga mga balod nga nagadapya.
Pamatyon na kuntani sang mga soldado ang tanan nga priso para indi sila makalangoy pahigad kag makapalagyo.
Pero ginpunggan sila sang ila kapitan tungod nga gusto niya nga luwason si Pablo. Nagmando siya nga maglumpat una ang tanan nga makahibalo maglangoy, kag magpahigad.
Ang indi makahibalo, magsunod lang nga nagakapyot sa mga tabla kag sa mga parte sang sakayan nga nagalutaw nga nagalutaw . Amo ato ang amon ginhimo, kag tanan kami nakalambot sa baybayon kag wala maano.
Sang didto na kami sa takas nga luwas na sa peligro, nasapwan namon nga ang ato nga isla ginatawag Malta.
Maayo gid sa amon ang mga pumuluyo didto. Nagdabok sila sang kalayo tungod nga nagaulan kag ginatugnawan kami. Kag samtang nagapainit-init kami, samtang nagapainit-init kami, gin-abiabi nila kami.
Nagtipon si Pablo sang isa ka bugkos nga kahoy nga inuggatong. Pero pagbutang niya sang kahoy sa kalayo, nagguwa dayon ang dalitan nga man-og sa sadto nga gatong tungod sa init sang kalayo, kag ginkagat ang iya kamot.
Pagkakita sang mga pumuluyo didto sang man-og nga nagakabit sa kamot ni Pablo, nagsiling sila, “Sigurado gid nga kriminal ini nga tawo. Nakaluwas siya sa dagat pero indi magtugot ang dios dios
Pero ginwaslik lang ni Pablo ang man-og didto sa kalayo kag wala man siya maano.
Nagapaabot ang mga tawo nga magbanog ang kamot ni Pablo ukon matumba siya kag mapatay. Pero madugay na ang ila hulat kag wala gid maano si Pablo. Gani nagbaylo ang ila hunahuna kag nagsiling sila, “Isa siya ka dios!”
Ang ngalan sang pangulo sang sadto nga lugar amo si Publius. Ang iya duta malapit gid lang sa amon gintakasan. Maayo ang iya pagbaton sa amon, kag sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw didto kami sa iya nagdayon.
Natabuan man sadto nga ang amay ni Publius nagamasakit. May hilanat siya kag ginadisenterya. Gani nagsulod si Pablo sa iya kuwarto kag nagpangamuyo. Dayon gintungtong niya ang iya kamot sa nagamasakit kag nag-ayo siya.
Tungod sa natabo, ang tanan nga nagamasakit didto sa isla nagkaladto sa amon kag gin-ayo man sila.
Madamo ang ila ginhatag sa amon nga mga regalo. Kag sang mabiyahe na kami, gindul-ungan pa nila kami sang amon mga kinahanglanon didto sa sakayan.
Sa tapos sang tatlo ka bulan nga pagtiner namon sa isla sang Malta nga pagtiner namon sa isla sang Malta , nagsakay kami sa isa ka sakayan nga nagpalipod didto sang tigmaladlos. Ini nga sakayan halin sa Alexandria. Ang iya marka sa dulong amo ang larawan sang kapid nga dios.
Paghalin namon sa Malta, nag-agi kami sa Syracuse kag tatlo kami ka adlaw didto.
Halin didto nagbiyahe
Didto may nakita kami nga mga kauturan. Nagpangabay sila sa amon nga magtiner didto sa ila sing isa ka semana. Pagkatapos nagderetso kami sa Roma.
Pagkabati sang mga tumuluo sa Roma nga nag-abot na kami, ginsugat nila kami sa Merkado sang Apius
Sang pag-abot namon sa Roma, gintugutan si Pablo sa pag-estar kon diin ang luyag niya, nga may isa ka soldado nga magabantay sa iya.
Pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw, ginpatawag ni Pablo ang mga pangulo sang mga Judio sa Roma. Sang nagatipon sila, nagsiling siya, “Mga kauturan, bisan wala ako sang may nahimo nga kontra sa aton banwa ukon sa mga kinabatasan nga halin sa aton mga katigulangan, gindakop nila ako sa Jerusalem kag gin-akusar sa mga Romanhon.
Gin-imbistigar ako sang Romanhon nga mga opisyal, kag pagkatapos nga mahibaluan nila nga wala gid ako sing may nahimo nga malain para sentensyahan nga patyon, buy-an kuntani nila ako.
Pero ginbalabagan sang mga Judio, gani napilitan ako nga magdangop sa Emperador, bisan wala ako sing kaso kontra sa akon kasimanwa nga mga Israelinhon.
Amo ini nga ginpatawag ko kamo, para makahambal ako sa inyo, kay ginakadenahan ako subong tungod nga nagapati ako sa ginalauman sang mga Israelinhon.”
Nagsiling sila kay Pablo, “Wala kami nakabaton sang sulat halin sa Judea parte sa imo. Ang aton kapareho nga mga Judio nga nag-abot diri halin sa Jerusalem wala man sing dala nga balita ukon malain nga inughambal kontra sa imo.
Pero gusto man namon nga mabatian kon ano ang imo inugsugid, kay nahibaluan namon nga bisan diin nga lugar, ginapakalain sang mga tawo ang sekta mo nga ina.”
Gani nagsugtanay sila kon san-o nga adlaw sila magtipon. Pag-abot sang natalana nga adlaw, mas madamo sang sa una ang nagtipon didto sa balay nga ginadayunan ni Pablo. Halin sa aga hasta sa gab-i ang pagpaathag ni Pablo. Ginpamatud-an niya sa ila ang parte sa paghari sang Dios, kag ginkombinsi niya sila parte kay Jesus paagi sa Kasuguan ni Moises kag sa mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta para makombinsi sila.
Ang iban nagpati sa iya ginahambal, pero ang iban wala magpati.
Tungod nga indi sila magsugtanay, nagpalauli sila. Pero sa wala pa sila magpalauli may ginhambal pa si Pablo sa ila. Siling niya, “Wala gid nagsala ang ginsiling sang Espiritu Santo sa aton mga katigulangan paagi kay Propeta Isaias.
kag ayuhon ko sila.’ ”
Nagsiling pa gid si Pablo, Nagsiling pa gid si Pablo, “Gusto ko man isugid sa inyo nga ang pulong sang Dios parte sa kaluwasan ginbalita na sa mga indi Judio; kag magapamati gid sila.”
Paghambal sadto ni Pablo, nagpalauli ang mga Judio nga mainit ang ila pagbinaisay.
Sa sulod sang duha ka tuig nagtiner si Pablo sa balay nga iya ginaarkilahan. Kag ginbaton niya ang tanan nga nagbisita sa iya.
Gintudluan niya sila parte sa paghari sang Dios kag parte kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Wala gid siya nahadlok sa iya mga pagpanudlo kag wala sing may nagpamalabag sa iya.
Ako Ako si Pablo nga ulipon ni Cristo Jesus. Gintawag
Ining Maayong Balita ginpromisa sang Dios sang Dios sang una paagi sa iya mga propeta sa Balaan nga Kasulatan.
Ini parte sa iya Anak nga kaliwat ni David sa tawhanon nga pagkabuhi.
Gintalana siya nga Anak sang Dios nga may gahom suno sa Balaan nga Espiritu,
Paagi kay Cristo nabaton namon ang grasya nga mangin apostol para matuytuyan ang tanan nga katawhan sa husto nga pagtuo kag pagsunod sa iya. Ini Ini para sa kadayawan sang kadayawan sang iya ngalan.
Kag kamo nga mga tumuluo dira sa Roma nga mga tumuluo dira sa Roma kaupod man nila nga gintawag nga mangin iya ni Jesu-Cristo.
Kabay pa nga mabaton ninyo ang grasya
Una sa tanan nagapasalamat ako sa akon Dios paagi kay Jesu-Cristo para sa inyo tanan, kay ang inyo pagtuo ginasugid sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Permi ako nagapangamuyo para sa inyo, kag makapamatuod sini ang Dios nga akon ginaalagaran sa bug-os ko nga tagipusuon sa akon pagwali sang Maayong Balita parte sa iya Anak.
Permi ako nagapangamuyo sa Dios nga kon mahimo itugot niya nga makakadto ako dira sa inyo.
Dako gid ang akon handom nga makita ko kamo para mapaambit ko sa inyo ang espiritual nga mga abilidad nga makapabakod sa inyo.
Ang buot ko silingon, nga magbinuligay kita para mapabakod kita paagi sa akon pagtuo kag sa inyo pagtuo.
Mga kauturan, gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo nga makapila na ako nagplano nga magkadto dira sa inyo, pero permi lang may kasablagan. Gusto ko nga makakadto dira Gusto ko nga makakadto dira para may mga tawo man ako nga mabuligan nga magtuo kay Cristo, pareho sang nahimo ko sa iban nga mga indi Judio sa mga lugar nga akon ginkadtuan sa mga lugar nga akon ginkadtuan .
Kay may obligasyon ako sa pagwali sa tanan nga tawo: sa pagwali sa tanan nga tawo: sa mga may tinun-an kag sa wala, kag sa mga may alam kag sa wala.
Gani dako gid ang akon handom nga makawali man sang Maayong Balita dira sa inyo sa Roma.
Wala ko ginakahuya ang pagwali sang Maayong Balita. Kay amo ini ang gahom sang Dios sa pagluwas sa tanan nga nagatuo, una sa mga Judio, kag dason sa mga indi Judio.
Kay ginapahayag sa Maayong Balita nga ginapakamatarong sang Dios ang mga tawo paagi gid lang sa pagtuo. Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang tawo nga ginpakamatarong tungod sa iya pagtuo magakabuhi.”
Ginapakita sang aton Dios nga sa langit ang iya kaakig sa mga malain nga ginahimo sang mga tawo nga kontra sa iya kabubut-on. Ang mga malain nga ila ginahimo amo ang nagapugong sa ila sa pagkilala sang kamatuoran.
Kay sarang nila kuntani mahibaluan ang parte sa Dios tungod nga ginpakita ini sang Dios sa ila.
Matuod nga indi ta makita ang Dios, pero halin pa sang pagtuga sang kalibutan, ang iya wala katapusan nga gahom kag pagka-Dios napahayag na paagi sa mga butang nga iya gintuga. Gani wala sila sang may ibalibad nga wala sila nakahibalo nga may Dios nga wala sila nakahibalo nga may Dios .
Bisan nahibaluan nila nga may Dios, wala sila nagapadungog kag nagapasalamat sa iya. Sa baylo, nangin wala sing pulos ang ila mga panghunahuna. Nadulman ang ila mga hunahuna nga indi makaintiendi sang kamatuoran.
Nagasiling sila nga sila mga maalam, pero nagaguwa nga sila mga buang-buang.
Kay wala sila nagasimba sa Dios nga wala sing kamatayon, kundi ang ila ginasimba amo ang ginhimo nga mga dios-dios nga kaanggid sang mga tawo nga may kamatayon kag mga sapat nga nagalupad, nagalakat, kag nagakamang.
Tungod sang ila kabuangan ginpabay-an sila sang Dios sa paghimo sang malaw-ay nga mga butang nga ila nagustuhan, kag ang resulta, makahuluya ang ginahimo nila sa ila kapareho nga lalaki ukon babayi.
Ginabayluhan nila sang kabutigan ang kamatuoran parte sa Dios. Ginasimba nila kag ginaalagad ang mga tinuga sang Dios, kag indi ang Manunuga nga dalayawon hasta san-o. Amen.
Tungod nga ang mga tawo indi magkilala sa Dios, ginpabay-an niya sila sa paghimo sang makahuluya nga mga butang nga ila naluyagan. Nagapakigrelasyon ang mga babayi sa kapareho nila nga babayi imbes sa lalaki ang amo ang natural.
Amo man ang mga lalaki, sa baylo nga maggamit sila sang babayi, nga amo ang natural, ang ila kailigbon ara sa ila kapareho nga lalaki. Makahuluya ang ila ginahimo sa lawas sang ila kapareho nga mga lalaki. Kag tungod sa sining ginahimo nila nga indi husto, silutan sila sang Dios sang silot nga bagay gid sa ila.
Tungod nga indi sila magkilala sa Dios, ginpabay-an niya sila sa ila hunahuna nga indi makapili sang husto. Gani ginahimo nila ang mga butang nga indi dapat himuon.
Nangin ulipon sila sang tanan nga klase sang kalainan, kalautan, kadalok, kag kahisa. Ara man sa ila ang pagpamatay, pag-ilinaway, pagkadayaon, kag ang paghunahuna sang mga malain nga himuon nila sa ila isigkatawo. Nagakutsokutso sila
kag nagapanglibak sa ila isigkatawo. Akig sila sa Dios, wala nagatahod sa ila isigkatawo, bugalon, hambog, kag nagapangita sila sang paagi sa paghimo sang malain. Wala sila nagatuman sa ila mga ginikanan,
wala pulos ang ila hunahuna, indi masaligan, kag wala sing kaluoy bisan pa sa ila pamilya.
Nahibaluan nila nga nagdeklarar ang Dios nga ang mga tawo nga nagahimo sini nga mga sala takos sang kamatayon, pero padayon gihapon ang ila paghimo. Kag indi lang ina, kundi nalipay pa gid sila kon may makita sila nga nagahimo pareho sang ila ginahimo.
Karon, makasiling ka nga bagay sila silutan sang Dios kay masyado kalain ang ila ginahimo. Pero ikaw nga nagasiling sina ginasentensyahan mo man ang imo kaugalingon, kay ginapakalain mo sila pero ikaw mismo amo man ang imo ginahimo.
Nahibaluan ta nga suno sa kamatuoran ang paghukom sang Dios sa mga tawo nga nagahimo sang malain.
Pero tungod nga matig-a ang imo ulo kag indi ka maghinulsol, ginadugangan mo ang imo silot sa adlaw nga ipakita sang Dios ang iya kaakig kag ang iya matarong nga paghukom.
Kay ang Dios magabalos sa tagsa-tagsa suno sa iya mga binuhatan.
May mga tawo nga nagapadayon sa paghimo sang maayo tungod nga ginahandom nila nga dayawon sila sang Dios sang Dios , padunggan, kag hatagan sang kabuhi nga wala sing kamatayon. Ina nga mga tawo hatagan sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Pero may mga tawo man nga maiyaiyahon nga nagasikway sang kamatuoran kag nagasunod sa kalainan. Makita sini nga mga tawo ang kaugot kag kaakig sang Dios.
Kay ang tanan nga tawo nga nagahimo sang malain magaantos gid, una anay ang mga Judio kag dason ang mga indi Judio.
Pero ang mga tawo nga nagahimo sang maayo, dayawon kag padunggan sang Dios sang Dios , kag mangin maayo ang ila kahimtangan, una anay ang mga Judio kag dason ang mga indi Judio.
Kay ang Dios wala sing pinilian sa iya paghukom.
Ang mga tawo nga nagahimo sang sala mawala, bisan wala sila kahibalo parte sa Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises . Ang mga tawo iya nga nakahibalo sang Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises pero nagapadayon sa paghimo sang sala, hukman man sang Dios, pero ang Kasuguan mismo ang iya gamiton sa paghukom sa ila.
Kay ang ginapakamatarong sang Dios amo ang nagatuman sang Kasuguan kag indi ang nagapamati lang.
Ang mga indi Judio wala kahibalo sang Kasuguan ni Moises ni Moises . Pero kon ginahimo nila ang nasulat sa Kasuguan, nagapakita lang nga bisan wala sila kahibalo sang Kasuguan, nahibaluan nila kon ano ang husto nga himuon.
Ang ila ginahimo nga maayo nga maayo nagapakita nga ang ginatudlo sang Kasuguan ara sa ila tagipusuon. Ang ila konsensya makapamatuod sini, kay kon kaisa ang ila konsensya nagasiling nga sala ang ila ginahimo kag kon kaisa nagasiling man nga husto ang ila ginahimo.
Kag suno sa Maayong Balita nga akon ginatudlo, ina ipadumdom sa ila ni Jesu-Cristo sa adlaw nga siya pahukmon sang Dios sa tanan nga tawo. Hukman niya ang tanan nila nga mga tinago sa ila hunahuna.
Karon, kamo nga nagasiling nga kamo mga Judio, nagasalig kamo sa Kasuguan kag nagapabugal pa nga malapit kamo sa Dios.
Nahibaluan ninyo kon ano ang luyag sang Dios kag kon ano ang labing maayo nga himuon, tungod kay natun-an ninyo ini sa Kasuguan.
Nagasalig kamo nga makatudlo kamo sa mga tawo nga bulag sa kamatuoran sa kamatuoran kag makahatag sang kasanag sa mga tawo nga nadulman.
Nagasalig man kamo nga manugtudlo kamo sa mga tawo nga mahinay mag-intiendi kag sa mga tawo nga tawo nga bata pa kon parte sa Dios kon parte sa Dios . Amo ina ang inyo hunahuna tungod kay nagasalig kamo nga nahibaluan ninyo ang husto nga kaalam kag kamatuoran paagi sa Kasuguan.
Nagatudlo kamo sa iban, pero wala ninyo ginatudlui ang inyo kaugalingon. Nagatudlo kamo nga indi magpangawat, pero nagapangawat kamo.
Nagatudlo kamo nga indi magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki, pero amo man ina ang inyo ginahimo. Nahigkuan gid kamo sa mga dios-dios, pero nagapangawat kamo sa mga simbahan.
Nagapabugal kamo nga ara sa inyo ang Kasuguan sang Dios sang Dios , pero ginapakahuy-an ninyo ang Dios tungod sang inyo paglapas sang Kasuguan.
Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Tungod sa inyo nga mga Judio nga mga Judio , ginainsulto sang mga indi Judio ang Dios.”
Ang pagkatinuli may pulos lang kon ginatuman ninyo ang Kasuguan. Pero kon wala ninyo ginatuman ini, pareho lang kamo sa mga indi Judio nga indi Judio nga wala natuli.
Kag amo man sa mga tawo nga indi tinuli: kon ginasunod nila ang ginapatuman sang Kasuguan, ginakabig man sila sang Dios nga mga tinuli.
Gani kamo nga mga Judio husgaran nila tungod nga ginalapas ninyo ang Kasuguan, bisan ara sa inyo ining ginsulat nga Kasuguan kag bisan natuli kamo. Sila iya nagatuman sang Kasuguan bisan wala sila natuli.
Kon sa bagay sin-o gid bala ang matuod nga Judio kag matuod nga tinuli? Indi ang tawo nga ang iya ginikanan Judio kag ang iya pagkatinuli sa guwa lang.
Ang matuod nga Judio amo ang tawo nga nagbag-o ang iya kabuhi paagi sa bulig sang Espiritu Santo Santo kag indi tungod kay natuli siya suno sa Kasuguan. Ang tawo nga pareho sina ginadayaw sang Dios bisan wala siya ginadayaw sang mga tawo.
Kon amo sini, may bintaha bala ang pagka-Judio ukon may pulos bala ang pagkatinuli?
Sa matuod, madamo ang bintaha. Una sa tanan, gintugyan sa mga Judio ang pulong sang Dios.
Bisan matuod nga may mga Judio nga wala nagatuman sa pulong sang Dios, indi gid mahimo nga indi niya pagtumanon ang ginpromisa niya sang una.
kag wala ka nagakasala sa imo paghukom.”
Karon, basi may magsiling, basi may magsiling, “Kon ikomparar ang amon ginahimo nga malain sa ginahimo sang Dios, makita nga maayo ang Dios. Gani kon makita ang kaayo niya tungod sa amon ginahimo nga malain, indi matarong ang Dios kon ipaagom niya ang iya kaakig sa amon tungod sa amon ginahimo.” Ina tawhanon lang nga mga rason.
Indi ina mahimo! Tungod nga kon amo sina, paano ang paghukom sang Dios sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan?
Basi may magsiling pa gid, Basi may magsiling pa gid, “Kon paagi sa amon pagbinutig magaguwa nga indi butigon ang Dios kag sa sini madayaw siya, ngaa silutan kami bilang makasasala?”
Ang ina nga rason nagasiling nga maayo ang maghimo sang malain para magaguwa ang maayo. Suno sa mga tawo nga nagapakalain sa amon, amo ini kuno ang amon ginatudlo. Ina nga mga tawo dapat gid man nga silutan sang Dios sang Dios .
Karon, ano ang aton masiling? Nga kita nga mga Judio mas maayo pa sang sa mga indi Judio? Indi ina matuod! Ginpahayag ko na nga ang tanan nga tawo, Judio man ukon indi, makasasala.
“Wala gid sing bisan isa nga matarong;
kag wala sing may nagatinguha sa pagkilala sa iya.
Wala gid sing bisan isa nga nagahimo sing maayo.”
“Ang ila mga pulong
puro masakit nga mga pag-insulto.”
“Maabtik sila magpatay.
kag nagadala sang kalisod.
Wala sila sing may nahibaluan parte sa kalinong.
“Kag wala sila sing kahadlok sa Dios.”
Karon, nahibaluan ta nga kon ano ang ginasiling sang Kasuguan, ginasiling ini sa aton nga mga Judio nga nagakabuhi sa idalom sang Kasuguan. Gani indi kita makasiling nga indi kita pagsilutan. Ang tanan magapanabat sa Dios tungod sa ila mga sala.
Kay wala gid sing tawo nga pakamatarungon sa atubangan sang Dios paagi sa pagtuman sang Kasuguan. Ang Kasuguan ginhatag sa tawo para ipakita nga siya makasasala.
Pero karon ginpahayag na kon paano ginapakamatarong sang Dios ang tawo. Ini indi paagi sa pagtuman sang Kasuguan. Ang Kasuguan mismo kag ang mga sinulatan sang mga sinulatan sang mga propeta nagapamatuod sini.
Ginapakamatarong sang Dios ang tawo paagi sa pagtuo kay Jesu-Cristo, kay ang Dios wala sing pinilian. Gani ang bisan sin-o nga magtuo kay Jesu-Cristo ginapakamatarong niya.
Kay ang tanan nga tawo nagpakasala kag indi takos sa panulok sang Dios.
Pero tungod sa grasya sang Dios, ginpakamatarong kita paagi kay Cristo Jesus nga nagtubos sa aton, kag ini regalo sang Dios.
Ginpadala siya sang Dios sa kalibutan para ihalad ang iya kabuhi para madula ang kaakig sang Dios sa aton, kag paagi sa iya dugo mapatawad kita sa aton mga sala kon magtuo kita sa iya. Ginhimo ini sang Dios para ipakita nga matarong siya. Kay sang una ginpaligad niya ang ila mga sala tungod nga mabinatason siya. Dapat kuntani ginsilutan na sila.
Pero karon ginhalad na niya ang kabuhi ni Cristo ginhalad na niya ang kabuhi ni Cristo para ipakita nga matarong siya. Tungod sa sining ginhimo sang Dios napamatud-an nga matarong siya bisan pa sa pagpakamatarong niya sa mga makasasala nga mga makasasala nga nagtuo kay Jesus.
Gani wala gid sang bisan sin-o nga makapabugal. Kon ginapakamatarong kita sang Dios tungod sa aton pagtuman sang Kasuguan, makapabugal kita. Pero ang matuod, indi kita makapabugal tungod nga ginapakamatarong kita sang Dios paagi sa aton pagtuo.
Kay nagapati kita nga ginapakamatarong sang Dios ang tawo paagi sa pagtuo kag indi sa iya pagtuman sang Kasuguan.
Kon indi matuod ini, ang Dios, Dios lang sang mga Judio kag indi Dios sang mga indi Judio. Pero Dios man siya sang mga indi Judio,
kay may isa lamang ka Dios. Kag pakamatarungon niya ang mga Judio kon sila magtuo kay Jesus kay Jesus , kag amo man ang mga indi Judio kon magtuo man sila kay Jesus kay Jesus .
Ini wala nagakahulugan nga ginasikway ta ang Kasuguan tungod sa pagtuo, kundi ginatuman ta ang iya husto nga katuyuan.
Bilang halimbawa kon paano ginapakamatarong sang Dios ang tawo, tan-awa bala ninyo si Abraham nga amay naton nga mga Judio nga mga Judio .
Kon ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios sang Dios tungod sang iya mga binuhatan, kuntani may ipabugal siya. Pero ang matuod, wala siya sing may ipabugal sa Dios.
Nahibaluan ta ini tungod nga nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Nagtuo si Abraham sa Dios, kag tungod sang iya pagtuo ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios sang Dios .”
Ang tawo nga nagaobra ginasuhulan. Ang suhol indi makabig nga regalo tungod kay iya ini ginpangabudlayan.
Pero ginpakamatarong kita sang Dios tungod sa aton pagtuo sa iya nga nagapakamatarong sa makasasala, kag indi tungod sa aton mga binuhatan.
Amo man ini ang buot silingon ni David sang nagsiling siya nga bulahan ang tawo nga ginpakamatarong sang Dios indi tungod sa iya mga binuhatan.
nga ang ila mga sala wala na ginadumdom sang Dios.
indi na pag-isipon sang Ginoo kontra sa iya.”
Ining mga ginhambal ni David indi lang para sa mga Judio, kundi para man sa mga indi Judio. Nahibaluan ta ini tungod nga nasambit na namon ang Kasulatan nga nagasiling, “Nagtuo si Abraham sa Dios, kag tungod sang iya pagtuo ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios sang Dios .”
San-o bala ini natabo? Indi bala ang pagpakamatarong sa iya natabo sa wala pa siya matuli?
Gintuli siya bilang tanda nga ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios tungod sang iya pagtuo sa wala pa siya matuli. Amo ina nga si Abraham nangin amay
Si Abraham amay man sang mga tinuli, indi tungod lang sang ila nga pagkatinuli, kundi tungod nga nagatuo sila subong nga nagtuo ang aton amay nga si Abraham sa wala pa siya matuli.
Sang una nagpromisa ang Dios kay Abraham kag sa iya mga kaliwat nga ang kalibutan mangin ila. Ginpromisa ini indi tungod nga gintuman ni Abraham ang Kasuguan, kundi tungod nga ginpakamatarong siya paagi sa iya pagtuo.
Kon ang mga nasakop sa Kasuguan
Ang Kasuguan amo ang kabangdanan kon ngaa ginapaagom sang Dios sang Dios ang iya iya kaakig. Kon wala sing Kasuguan, wala man sing paglapas.
Gani ang promisa sang Dios ginabasi sa pagtuo, para mangin regalo sang Dios kag mangin pamatuod nga ini mabaton sang tanan nga kaliwat ni Abraham—indi lamang sa mga Judio nga Judio nga nasakop sa Kasuguan kundi sa mga indi Judio nga indi Judio nga nagatuo man pareho kay Abraham. Kay si Abraham amo ang amay sang tanan nga nagatuo, Judio man ukon indi.
Nagasiling ang Dios sa Dios sa Kasulatan, “Ginhimo ko ikaw nga amay sang madamo nga nasyon.”
Bisan wala na gid sing paglaom nga mangin amay nga mangin amay , nagtuo gihapon si Abraham kag padayon nga naglaom nga tumanon sang Dios ang iya ginpromisa sa iya nga siya mangin amay nga tumanon sang Dios ang iya ginpromisa sa iya nga siya mangin amay . Gani sa iya pagtuo, sa iya pagtuo, nangin amay siya sang madamo nga nasyon, suno gid sa ginsiling sang Dios sang Dios sa iya nga, “Pareho man kadamo sa mga bituon ang imo mga kaliwat.”
Sang nagpromisa ang Dios kay Abraham, Sang nagpromisa ang Dios kay Abraham, mga 100 na ka tuig ang iya edad, kag nahibaluan niya nga tigulang na siya kag imposible nga makapabata pa. Nahibaluan man niya nga ang iya asawa indi makabata tungod nga baw-as si Sara. Pero wala nagluya ang iya pagtuo.
Wala gid siya nagduhaduha sa promisa sang Dios, kundi nagtuo siya. Gani ginpabakod siya sang Dios. Kag gindayaw niya ang Dios
tungod nga nagsalig gid siya nga sarang ang Dios magtuman sang iya ginpromisa.
Gani tungod sa pagtuo ni Abraham ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios sang Dios .
Pero ang ginsulat sa Kasulatan nga “ginpakamatarong siya” ginsulat indi lang para kay Abraham,
kundi para man sa aton. Pakamatarungon man kita kon nagatuo kita sa nagbanhaw kay Jesus nga aton Ginoo.
Ginpatay si Jesus tungod sa aton mga sala, kag ginbanhaw siya para pakamatarungon kita.
Karon, tungod kay ginpakamatarong na kita paagi sa pagtuo kay Jesu-Cristo kay Jesu-Cristo , maayo na ang aton relasyon sa Dios. Ini natabo tungod sa ginhimo sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Paagi sa iya kag tungod sa aton pagtuo nakabaton kita sang sini nga grasya sang Dios, kag nagakalipay kita sa paglaom nga makaambit kita sa iya kadungganan.
Kag indi lang ina, kundi nagakalipay man kita sa aton mga pag-antos, kay nahibaluan ta nga paagi sa mga kalisod mangin mainantuson kita.
Kag kon mainantuson kita nalipay ang Dios sa aton, kag kon ang Dios nalipay sa aton may paglaom kita.
Kag indi mahimo nga indi ta mabaton ang aton ginalauman tungod nga paagi sa Espiritu Santo nga ginpadala sa aton, nahibaluan ta nga ginahigugma kita sang Dios.
Hunahunaa bala ninyo ang gugma sang Dios sa aton. Sang wala kita sing sarang mahimo para makalikaw sa silot para makalikaw sa silot , nagpanginmatay si Cristo para sa aton nga aton nga mga makasasala sa tion nga gintalana sang Dios.
Mabudlay sa isa ka tawo nga magpanginmatay para sa tawo nga matarong. Siguro may ara gid man nga magpanginmatay para sa maayo nga tawo.
Pero si Cristo nagpanginmatay para sa aton bisan sang mga makasasala pa kita. Sa sini nga paagi ginpakita sang Dios ang iya paghigugma sa aton.
Kag tungod nga ginpakamatarong na kita subong sang Dios sang Dios paagi sa dugo ni Cristo, makasiguro gid kita nga tungod kay Cristo maluwas kita sa kaakig sang Dios sang Dios .
Sang una mga kaaway kita sang Dios, pero paagi sa pagkapatay sang iya Anak napabalik na ang aton maayo nga relasyon sa iya. Kag karon nga may maayo na kita nga relasyon sa Dios, sigurado nga luwason niya kita paagi sa kabuhi ni Cristo.
Kag indi lang ina, kundi nagakalipay kita subong sa aton relasyon sa Dios paagi sa aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Paagi sa iya napabalik na ang aton maayo nga relasyon sa Dios.
Ang sala nagsulod sa kalibutan tungod sang paglapas ni Adan sa sugo sang Dios, kag ang iya sala nagdala sang kamatayon. Gani nag-abot ang kamatayon sa tanan nga tawo, tungod kay ang tanan nakasala.
Kay ari na sa kalibutan ang sala sa wala pa mahatag ang Kasuguan sa mga tawo. Pero kon wala sing Kasuguan, ang sala wala ginakabig kontra sa tawo.
Si Adan amo ang larawan ni Cristo nga ginapaabot sadto nga Cristo nga ginapaabot sadto nga magakari.
Pero ining duha indi pareho, tungod kay ining duha indi pareho, tungod kay ang regalo sang Dios indi mapaanggid sa sala ni Adan. Matuod gid nga ang sala ni Adan nagdala sing kamatayon sa madamo nga tawo, pero labaw pa gid sa sini ang grasya sang Dios nga amo ang regalo nga nag-abot sa madamo nga tawo paagi sa isa ka tawo nga si Jesu-Cristo.
Ang regalo sang Dios indi mapaanggid sa sala ni Adan. Tungod sa sala ni Adan ginhukman kita nga silutan, pero tungod sa ginhimo ni Cristo, bisan madamo ang aton ginhimo nga mga sala, ginpakamatarong kita sang Dios.
Kon tungod sa sala sang isa ka tawo nga si Adan nga si Adan ang tanan mapatay, daw ano pa gid ka dako ang resulta sang ginhimo sang isa ka tawo nga si Jesu-Cristo. Kay ang mga tawo nga nagabaton sang dako nga grasya kag regalo sang Dios paagi kay Cristo ginapakamatarong sang Dios, kag magaangkon sila sang kabuhi.
Gani tungod sa sala sang isa ka tawo, ang tanan ginhukman nga silutan. Subong man, tungod sa ginhimo nga matarong sang isa ka tawo, ang tanan
Tungod sang isa ka tawo nga wala nagtuman sa Dios madamo ang nangin makasasala. Subong man, tungod sang pagtuman sang isa ka tawo madamo ang pakamatarungon sang Dios sang Dios .
Ginhatag sang Dios ang Kasuguan para makita sang mga tawo nga madamo ang ila paglapas, kag nagadugang pa gani kon may Kasuguan. Pero bisan nagdugang ang sala, nagdugang pa gid ang grasya sang Dios.
Gani subong nga ang sala naggahom sa tanan nga tawo kag nagresulta sang kamatayon, ang grasya sang Dios sang Dios nagagahom kag nagaresulta sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Kay tungod sa ginhimo ni Jesu-Cristo nga aton Ginoo ginpakamatarong na kita sang Dios sang Dios .
Karon ano ang aton masiling? Magpadayon bala kita sa pagpakasala para magdugang pa gid ang grasya sang Dios sa aton?
Indi gid! Indi mahimo nga magpadayon kita sa pagpakasala kay napatay na kita sa sala.
Nakahibalo kamo nga sang pagbautiso sa aton sa pagpakig-isa pagpakig-isa kay Jesu-Cristo nagakahulugan nga kaupod man kita sa iya kamatayon.
Gani ang pagbautiso sa aton nagapakilala nga sang napatay si Cristo, kita napatay man kag ginlubong upod sa iya, para subong nga si Cristo ginbanhaw sang makagagahom nga Amay, kita magakabuhi man sang bag-o nga kabuhi.
Kag kon nakipag-isa kita kay Cristo sa iya kamatayon, sigurado gid nga makaangkon kita sang bag-o nga kabuhi
Nahibaluan ta nga ang aton daan nga pagkatawo nga makasasala ginlansang na sa krus kaupod ni Cristo para ang lawas nga ginagamhan sang sala indi na magkontrolar sa aton. Amo ina nga indi kita dapat ulipunon sang sala.
Kay kon ang tawo patay na, hilway na siya sa gahom sang sala.
Kag kon kita napatay upod kay Cristo, nagatuo kita nga mabuhi man kita upod sa iya.
Kay nakahibalo kita nga tungod si Cristo nabanhaw, indi na mahimo nga mapatay siya liwat. Wala na sing gahom ang kamatayon sa iya.
Napatay siya sang makaisa gid lang para sa sala, kag indi na gid ini maliwat. Buhi siya subong kag ang iya kabuhi para sa Dios.
Gani tungod nga kamo ara na kay Cristo Jesus, kabiga ninyo nga ang inyo kaugalingon patay na sa sala,
Indi na ninyo pagtuguti nga maggahom ang sala sa inyo lawas nga may kamatayon para indi na kamo magtuman sang iya kailigbon.
Indi ninyo paggamita ang bisan ano nga parte sang inyo lawas sa paghimo sang sala bilang instrumento sang kalainan. Kundi itugyan ninyo ang inyo bilog nga lawas sa Dios bilang instrumento sang pagkamatarong. Himua ninyo ini bilang mga tawo nga gintubos halin sa kamatayon kag ginhatagan sang bag-o nga bag-o nga kabuhi.
Gani ang sala indi dapat maggahom sa inyo, kay wala na kamo sa idalom sang Kasuguan, kundi ara na sa idalom sang grasya sang Dios sang Dios .
Karon, tungod nga kita wala na sa idalom sang Kasuguan kundi sa idalom na sang grasya sang Dios sang Dios , magpakasala pa bala kita? Indi gid!
Indi bala mga ulipon kita sang bisan ano nga aton ginatuman? Gani kon nagahimo kita sang sala, mga ulipon kita sang sala kag ang resulta sini kamatayon. Pero kon nagatuman kita sa Dios, mga ulipon kita sang Dios kag ang resulta sini amo nga pakamatarungon niya kita.
Sang una mga ulipon kamo sang sala. Pero salamat sa Dios tungod subong tinagipusuon na ang inyo pagtuman sa mga kamatuoran nga gintudlo sa inyo.
Ginhilway na kamo sang Dios sa gahom sang sala, kag subong ulipon na kamo sang matarong nga pagkabuhi.
Ginagamit ko bilang halimbawa ang parte sa pagkaulipon para madali ninyo maintiendihan ang akon buot silingon. Sang una ginpaulipon ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa sala paagi sa paggamit ninyo sang inyo lawas sa paghimo sang malaw-ay nga mga butang kag kalautan. Kag ang resulta sini nangin malain kamo. Pero karon, itugyan ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon bilang mga ulipon sang matarong nga pagkabuhi. Kag ang resulta sini mangin diosnon kamo.
Sang mga ulipon pa kamo sang sala, ang matarong nga pagkabuhi wala sa inyo.
Ti ano nga kaayuhan ang inyo nakuha sa inyo pagkabuhi sang una nga subong ginakahuya na ninyo? Ang resulta sadto amo ang kamatayon.
Pero karon ginhilway na kamo sa sala kag mga ulipon na kamo sang Dios. Kag ang inyo nakuha amo ang diosnon nga pagkabuhi. Ang resulta sini amo ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Kay ang bayad sa sala amo ang kamatayon, pero ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan amo ang regalo sang Dios sa mga ara kay Cristo Jesus nga aton Ginoo.
Mga kauturan, nakahibalo kamo parte sa kasuguan. Gani nasiguro ko nga maintiendihan ninyo ang akon ipaathag sa inyo nga kon ang tawo patay na, ang kasuguan wala na sing gahom sa iya.
Pareho bala sang babayi nga may bana. Suno sa kasuguan, ang babayi nahigot sa iya bana samtang buhi pa ang iya bana. Pero kon ang iya bana patay na, hilway na siya sa kasuguan nga nagahigot sa iya sa iya bana.
Gani kon magpamana siya sa iban nga lalaki samtang buhi pa ang iya bana, nagapanginlalaki siya. Pero kon ang iya bana patay na kag magpamana siya sa iban, wala siya nagalapas sa kasuguan, kag wala man siya nagapanginlalaki.
Gani, mga kauturan, pareho man sina ang natabo sa inyo. Wala na labot sa inyo ang Kasuguan Wala na labot sa inyo ang Kasuguan , kay napatay na kamo paagi sa kamatayon ni Cristo. Iya na kamo ni Cristo nga nabanhaw, para magkabuhi kita sing mapuslanon sa pag-alagad sa Dios.
Sang ara pa kita sa aton daan nga pagkatawo, ang malain nga mga kailigbon amo ang nagagahom sa aton, kag nagdugang pa gani tungod sa Kasuguan. Kag tungod nga ginhimo ta ato nga mga butang, ang aton silot amo ang kamatayon.
Pero karon, tungod sa aton pagpakig-isa sa kamatayon ni Cristo, hilway na kita sa Kasuguan nga nag-ulipon sa aton. Ang aton pag-alagad sa Dios karon suno na sa bag-o nga kabuhi nga resulta sang aton pagsunod sa Espiritu Santo Santo kag indi sa daan nga pagkabuhi nga resulta sang aton pagsunod sa Kasuguan.
Karon basi kon may magsiling nga kon amo sina, malain gali ang Kasuguan. Wala ako nagasiling nga malain. Kay kon wala ang Kasuguan wala ako nakahibalo kon ano ang sala. Halimbawa, kon wala nagsiling ang Kasuguan, “Indi ka magkahisa,”
Pero tungod sa sala nga ara na nga daan sa akon, pagkahibalo ko nga malain gali ang pagkahisa, nagdugang pa gid ang akon kahisa. Gani kon wala sing Kasuguan, wala kita nakahibalo kon ano ang ginatawag nga sala.
Sang una nagkabuhi ako nga wala sing Kasuguan. Pero pagkahibalo ko sang Kasuguan, nakita ko nga ako gali makasasala, kag didto ko nahibaluan nga ako gali ginsentensyahan na sang kamatayon.
Gani ang Kasuguan nga ang katuyuan maghatag sang kabuhi amo ang nagdala sa akon sang kamatayon.
Kay ang Kasuguan amo ang gin-gamit sang sala nga ara sa akon para mapatalang ako, kag ang resulta, nasentensyahan ako sang kamatayon tungod nga indi ko masunod ang nga indi ko masunod ang Kasuguan.
Ang Kasuguan balaan, kag ang tanan nga sugo sini balaan, matarong, kag maayo.
Nagakahulugan bala nga ang maayo nagdala sa akon sang kamatayon? Indi! Ginsentensyahan ako tungod sa akon sala. Kag diri nakita ta nga malain gid ang sala, kay gin-gamit niya ang Kasuguan nga maayo para masilutan ako sang kamatayon. Gani paagi sa Kasuguan nakita ta kon daw ano kalaot ang sala.
Nahibaluan ta nga ang Kasuguan naghalin sa Espiritu sang Dios sang Dios . Pero ako tawhanon kag ulipon sang sala.
Indi ko maintiendihan ang akon ginahimo. Kay ang maayo nga maayo nga mga butang nga gusto ko nga himuon indi ko mahimo, pero ang mga butang nga indi ko gusto himuon amo ang akon ginahimo.
Kag kon wala ako naluyag sa akon ginahimo nga malain, nagakahulugan nga nagasugot ako nga husto ang ginasiling sang Kasuguan.
Gani indi ako ang nagahimo sang malain kundi ang sala nga ari sa akon.
Kay nahibaluan ko nga diri sa akon, sa akon tawhanon nga kinaugali, wala gid sing maayo, tungod kay bisan gusto ko nga maghimo sang maayo indi ako makahimo.
Gani, ang maayo nga gusto ko nga himuon indi ko mahimo, pero ang malain nga indi ko gusto nga himuon amo ang akon ginahimo.
Karon, kon ginahimo ko ang indi ko gusto nga himuon, ini nagakahulugan nga indi ako ang nagahimo sini kundi ang sala nga ari sa akon.
Gani nasapwan ko nga kon gusto ko maghimo sang maayo ginabalabagan ako sang akon malain nga kinaugali.
Ang akon kaugalingon nalipay gid sa Kasuguan sang Dios,
pero may lain nga gahom
Makaluluoy gid ako! Sin-o bala ang makahilway sa akon sa sining makasasala nga makasasala nga pagkatawo nga nagadala sa akon sa kamatayon?
Amo ini ang akon kahimtangan: ang akon hunahuna nagapaulipon sa Kasuguan sang Dios, pero ang akon tawhanon nga kinaugali nagapaulipon sa gahom sang sala.
Karon, ang mga ara kay Cristo Jesus indi na paghukman nga silutan.
Kay sa tapos nga kita nangin ara na kay Cristo Jesus ginagamhan na kita sang Espiritu Santo Santo nga nagahatag sang kabuhi. Gani hilway na kita sa sala kag kamatayon nga nagagahom sa aton.
Ang Kasuguan indi makakuha sang gahom sang sala sa aton kabuhi, tungod kay maluya ang aton tawhanon nga kinaugali. Ang Dios amo ang nagkuha sang gahom sang sala sa kabuhi sang tawo. Ginpadala niya ang iya Anak diri sa kalibutan nga mangin tawo pareho sa aton nga mga makasasala, para mangin halad para sa aton mga sala. Kag sa iya pagkatawo, ginlaglag sang Dios ang gahom sang sala.
Ginhimo niya ini para ang ginapatuman sang Kasuguan matuman sa aton nga wala na nagakabuhi suno sa luyag sang aton tawhanon nga kinaugali kundi suno sa luyag sang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Ang mga tawo nga nagakabuhi suno sa ila tawhanon nga kinaugali wala sing iban nga ginahunahuna kundi kon ano ang naluyagan sang ila tawhanon nga kinaugali, pero ang mga tawo nga nagakabuhi suno sa pagtuytoy sang Espiritu Santo Santo wala sing iban nga ginahunahuna kundi kon ano ang naluyagan sang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Kon ang hunahuna sang tawo ara lang permi sa iya tawhanon nga kinaugali, ang resulta amo ang kamatayon. Pero kon ang mga butang nga luyag sang Espiritu Santo Santo amo ang iya permi ginahunahuna, makabaton siya sang kabuhi kag kalinong.
Kaaway sang Dios ang tawo nga ang iya hunahuna ara lang permi sa iya tawhanon nga kinaugali, kay wala siya nagatuman sa Kasuguan sang Dios, kag ang matuod indi siya makatuman sini.
Ang mga tawo nga nagasunod sang ila tawhanon nga kinaugali indi gid makapalipay sa Dios.
Pero kamo wala na sa paggahom sang inyo tawhanon nga kinaugali. Kay kon ang Espiritu sang Dios nagapuyo sa inyo, ginagamhan na kamo sang Espiritu. Ang tawo nga wala sa iya ang Espiritu ni Cristo indi iya ni Cristo.
Pero tungod nga si Cristo ara sa inyo, bisan mapatay ang inyo lawas tungod sa sala, mabuhi gihapon ang inyo espiritu tungod kay ginpakamatarong kamo sang Dios.
Karon, tungod nga ang Espiritu sang Dios nga nagbanhaw kay Jesus nagakabuhi sa inyo, siya nga nagbanhaw kay Cristo amo man ang magahatag sang kabuhi sa inyo mga lawas nga may kamatayon. Kag himuon niya ini paagi sa iya Espiritu nga nagapuyo sa inyo.
Gani mga kauturan, may obligasyon kita sa pagsunod sa gusto sang Dios sa pagsunod sa gusto sang Dios indi sa gusto sang aton tawhanon nga kinaugali.
Kay kon magkabuhi kamo suno sa inyo tawhanon nga kinaugali, mapatay kamo. Pero kon paagi sa Espiritu Santo Santo isikway ninyo ang malain nga mga buhat sang inyo lawas, magakabuhi kamo.
Ang mga ginatuytuyan sang Espiritu sang Dios amo ang matuod nga mga anak sang Dios.
Kay ang Espiritu nga inyo nabaton wala naghimo sa inyo nga mga ulipon, nga nagakahadlok pareho sang inyo nabatyagan sang una, kundi naghimo siya sa inyo nga mga anak sang Dios. Karon, paagi sa Espiritu Santo Santo makatawag na kita sa Dios nga, “Amay.”
Ang Espiritu Santo Santo upod sa aton espiritu amo ang nagapamatuod nga kita mga anak sang Dios.
Kag tungod nga kita mga anak na sang Dios na sang Dios , mga manunubli kita sang mga butang nga ginatigana sang Dios para sa aton. Mga manunubli kita kaupod ni Cristo. Kay kon nagaantos kita subong pareho kay Cristo sang una, magaabot ang adlaw nga padunggan man kita kaupod niya.
Kon sa akon lang, ang mga pag-antos subong indi makatupong sa maayo gid nga kahimtangan nga mangin aton sa palaabuton.
Kay ang tanan nga tinuga sang Dios nagahulat nga nagahandom gid sang tion nga ipahayag na sang Dios ang iya mga anak.
Kay ang tanan nga tinuga sang Dios wala makaabot sa katuyuan nga para sa ila. Natabo ini indi suno sa ila luyag kundi tungod nga amo ini ang kabubut-on sang Dios. Pero may paglaom pa,
kay magaabot ang adlaw nga ang mga tinuga sang Dios indi na madunot, kundi mangin kaupod sa mga anak sang Dios nga mahilway, nga mabutang sa maayo gid nga kahimtangan.
Nahibaluan ta nga hasta subong ang tanan nga tinuga sang Dios nagaugayong sa kasakit pareho sang pagpasakit sang manugbata.
Pero indi lang sila, kundi kita man nga nakabaton sang Espiritu Santo Santo , nga amo ang una nga regalo sang Dios, nagaugayong man sa kasakit samtang nagapaabot kita sa adlaw nga bag-uhon sang Dios ang aton mga lawas kag himuon niya kita nga iya mga anak.
Naluwas na kita kag nagapaabot na lang nga makompleto ini nga kaluwasan. Ang paglaom indi matawag nga paglaom kon ara na ang ginalauman. Kay sin-o bala ang magalaom kon ara na?
Pero kon nagalaom kita sang mga butang nga wala pa sa aton, nagahulat kita nga may pagbatas.
Kag tungod nga maluya kita, ang Espiritu Santo Santo nagabulig sa aton. Indi kita makahibalo kon ano gid ang dapat nga pangamuyuon, amo gani nga ang Espiritu Santo Santo nagapangabay sa Dios para sa aton sa mga pag-ugayong nga indi mamitlang.
Kag tungod nga nakahibalo ang Dios kon ano ang sa tagipusuon sang tawo, nakahibalo man siya sang hunahuna sang Espiritu Santo Santo . Kay ang Espiritu Santo Santo nagapangabay sa Dios para sa iya mga katawhan, kag suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios.
Nakahibalo kita nga ang tanan nga nagakalatabo ginahimo sang Dios para sa kaayuhan sang mga nagahigugma sa iya, nga iya mga ginpili suno sa iya katuyuan.
Kay halin pa sang una, nahibaluan na sang Dios kon sin-o ang iya mangin mga anak. Kag ginplano na niya nga daan nga mangin kaanggid sila sa iya Anak nga si Jesus nga si Jesus , para siya ang mangin kamagulangan sa madamo nga kauturan.
Gani ang mga tawo nga iya ginpili na nga daan gintawag niya nga mangin iya mga anak nga mangin iya mga anak ; kag ang mga tawo nga iya gintawag, iya man ginpakamatarong; kag ang iya ginpakamatarong, iya man ginpadunggan.
Karon, kon hunahunaon ta ini nga mga butang, makasiling kita nga ang Dios nagaapin gid sa aton, kag wala sing may makahalit sa aton.
Wala niya ginlikaw ang iya Anak, kundi ginhalad niya para sa aton tanan. Kon ginhatag niya ang iya Anak, ihatag man niya sa aton ang tanan nga butang.
Wala sing may makasiling nga kita nga mga pinili sang Dios mga makasasala, kay ang Dios mismo ang nagasiling nga kita ginpakamatarong na.
Wala na sing may makasiling nga dapat kita silutan, kay si Cristo Jesus mismo ang ginsilutan kag ginsilutan kag napatay para sa aton, kag indi lang ina kundi ginbanhaw siya, kag karon didto siya sa tuo sang Dios nga nagapangabay sa Dios para sa aton.
Wala sing may makapahamulag sa aton sa gugma ni Cristo. Bisan mag-agi kita sa mga pag-antos, kalisod, paghingabot, kagutom, kaimulon,
Pareho kami sa mga karnero nga ilihawon.”
Pero bisan amo ini ang aton kahimtangan, masarangan ta gid nga atubangon ini paagi sa bulig ni Cristo nga nagahigugma sa aton.
Karon may isugid pa ako sa inyo, kag ini matuod, kay ara ako kay Cristo kag wala ako nagabutig. Ang akon konsensya nga ginagamhan sang Espiritu Santo Santo nagapamatuod man nga matuod ang akon igasugid,
nga dako gid ang akon kasubo kag kasakit sa akon tagipusuon
tungod sa akon mga kasimanwa kag kadugo. Kon mahimo lang kuntani gusto ko nga ako ang sumpaon sang Dios kag ipahamulag kay Cristo para lang nga mahilway sila sa silot.
Madamo sila sang bintaha bilang mga Israelinhon. Ginkabig sila sang Dios bilang iya mga anak; ginpakitaan sila sang Dios sang iya masilaw nga presensya; naghimo ang Dios sang mga kasugtanan sa ila; ginhatag sa ila ang Kasuguan; gintudluan sila sang husto nga pagsimba sa iya; madamo ang iya mga ginpromisa sa ila;
mga kaliwat sila sang mga tawo nga ginpili sang Dios sang una; kag sa ila lahi naghalin si Cristo sang siya nagpakatawo, ang Dios nga makagagahom sa tanan kag dalayawon hasta san-o! Amen.
Pero bisan wala nila napusli ini nga mga pribilehiyo, bisan wala nila napusli ini nga mga pribilehiyo, wala ini nagakahulugan nga wala pagtumana sang Dios ang iya promisa, kay indi ang tanan nga kaliwat ni Israel pinili sang Dios.
Indi ang tanan nga kaliwat ni Abraham ginakabig nga iya kaliwat. Kay nagsiling ang Dios kay Abraham nagsiling ang Dios kay Abraham , “Sa kay Isaac magahalin ang imo mga kaliwat nga akon ginpromisa nga akon ginpromisa .”
Ini nagakahulugan nga indi ang tanan nga kaliwat ni Abraham ginakabig nga mga anak sang Dios, kundi ang ginbata lang suno sa ginpromisa kay Abraham ang kilalahon nga mga anak sang Dios.
Kay amo ini ang promisa sang Dios kay Abraham: “Mabalik ako diri sa sunod nga tuig
Kag paagi sa duha ka anak ni Rebeka kag sang aton katigulangan nga si Isaac, ginpakita man sang Dios nga indi tanan nga kaliwat ni Abraham ginakabig nga iya mga anak.
pero si Esau ya wala.”
Karon, ano ang aton masiling? Nga indi matarong ang Dios? Indi ina husto!
Kay nagsiling ang Dios kay Moises, “Kaluoyan ko ang gusto ko nga kaluoyan.”
Gani ang kaayo sang Dios wala nabasi sa gusto ukon sa ginahimo sang tawo, kundi tungod gid lang sa kaluoy sang Dios.
Kay sa Kasulatan nagsiling ang Dios sa hari sang Egypt,
Gani ginakaluoyan sang Dios ang gusto niya kaluoyan, kag ginapatig-a niya ang ulo sang mga tawo nga gusto niya patig-ahon.
Karon, basi kon may magsiling sa akon, “Ngaa bala basulon pa sang Dios ang tawo tungod sang iya pagpakasala tungod sang iya pagpakasala ? Kag sin-o bala ang makapamatok sa kabubut-on sang Dios?”
Pero sin-o gid bala ikaw nga magsabat sa Dios? “Makasiling bala ang hinimo nga butang sa naghimo sa iya, ‘Ngaa ginhimo mo ako nga pareho sini?’ ”
Pareho bala sa manughimo sang kolon, pagusto siya kon ano ang iya himuon sa lunang nga iya ginauyatan. Kon gusto niya, sarang niya mahimo ang duha ka klase sang kolon paagi sa sadto nga lunang: ang isa para sa espesyal nga mga okasyon kag ang isa para sa ordinaryo lang.
Karon, gusto sang Dios nga ipakita ang iya gahom kag ang iya kaakig sa mga tawo nga dapat na silutan. Pero pagusto siya kon agwantahon niya anay ini nga mga tawo nga iya pagalaglagon.
Ginahimo niya ini para mapakita niya ang iya dako nga kaayo sa mga tawo nga iya ginakaluoyan, nga iya na nga daan ginpreparar para padunggan.
Kag kita amo ang mga tawo nga iya gintawag, indi lang halin sa mga Judio kundi halin man sa mga indi Judio.
pero sa ulihi pagatawgon sila nga, ‘Mga anak sang buhi nga Dios.’ ”
Amo man ini ang ginsiling ni Isaias parte sa mga Israelinhon: “Bisan daw pareho sa balas sa baybayon ang kadamuon sang mga kaliwat ni Israel, diutay lang sa ila ang maluwas.
Kay sa labing madali pagasilutan sang Ginoo sing maid-id ang mga tawo mga tawo sa kalibutan.”
kita sa Sodom kag Gomora.”
Ang akon buot silingon amo ini: ang mga indi Judio nga wala nagtinguha nga pakamatarungon amo ang ginpakamatarong sang Dios sang Dios tungod nga nagtuo sila.
Pero ang mga Israelinhon nga nagtinguha sa pagtuman sang Kasuguan para pakamatarungon sila sang Dios wala nakadangat sini.
Ngaa man? Kay sa baylo nga magtuo sila kay Jesu-Cristo kay Jesu-Cristo , nagsalig sila sa ila mga binuhatan. Nasandad sila sa “bato nga kasandaran.”
Pero ang mga tawo nga nagatuo sa iya indi gid mahuy-an.”
Mga kauturan, dako gid ang akon handom nga ang akon mga kapareho nga mga Judio maluwas, kag ini ginapangamuyo ko sa Dios.
Makapamatuod ako nga mapisan sila sa pag-alagad sa Dios, pero indi suno sa kamatuoran.
Kay wala sila kahibalo sang paagi sang Dios kon paano niya ginapakamatarong ang tawo. Ang ila ginahimo, nagatinguha sila sa ila kaugalingon nga paagi kag wala nila ginasunod ang paagi sang Dios.
Wala sila makaintiendi nga Wala sila makaintiendi nga ang Kasuguan hasta lang kay Cristo, kay paagi sa ginhimo ni Cristo, ang tagsa-tagsa nga nagatuo sa iya amo lang ang ginapakamatarong.
Amo ini ang ginsulat ni Moises parte sa pagpakamatarong paagi sa pagtuman sang Kasuguan: “Ang tawo nga nagatuman sang Kasuguan makaangkon sang kabuhi.”
Pero amo ini ang ginasiling sa Kasulatan parte sa pagpakamatarong paagi sa pagtuo: “Indi ka magsiling sa imo kaugalingon, ‘Sin-o bala ang mapa-langit?’ ”
“Indi ka man magsiling, ‘Sin-o ang magpanaog sa kadadalman sang duta?’ ”
Kag ini nga pulong amo ang parte sa pagtuo nga amon ginawali:
nga kon isugid mo nga si Jesus amo ang Ginoo kag nagatuo ka sa imo tagipusuon nga ginbanhaw siya sang Dios halin sa kamatayon, maluwas ka.
Kay ang tawo ginapakamatarong sang Dios sang Dios kon nagatuo siya sing hugot sa iya tagipusuon. Kag kon magsugid siya nga nagatuo siya nga nagatuo siya , maluwas siya.
Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang nagatuo sa iya indi gid mahuy-an.”
Kag ini nga promisa para sa tanan, Judio man ukon indi Judio, tungod nga ang Ginoo, Ginoo sang tanan, kag nagahatag siya sing bugana nga pagpakamaayo sa tanan nga nagadangop sa iya.
Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang bisan sin-o nga magdangop sa Ginoo maluwas.”
Pero paano ang pagdangop nila sa iya kon wala sila magtuo? Kag paano sila makatuo sa iya kon wala sila makabati parte sa iya? Kag paano sila makabati kon wala sing may magsugid sa ila?
Kag paano makasugid ang mga mensahero kon wala sila ginsugo? Suno sa Kasulatan, “Daw ano kanami kon makita mo ang mga mensahero nga nagasugid sang maayong balita.”
Pero indi ang tanan nagbaton sang Maayong Balita. Pareho sang ginsiling ni Isaias, “Ginoo, sin-o bala ang nagpati sa amon mensahi?”
Karon makasiling kita nga ang tawo magatuo lang kay Cristo kon makabati siya sang mensahi parte sa iya. Kag ining mensahi mabatian lang kon may ara nga magtudlo sini.
nagalapnag ini sa bisan diin nga lugar.”
Paakigon ko kamo paagi sa pagpakamaayo paagi sa pagpakamaayo sa buang-buang nga nasyon.”
Nagpakilala ako sa ila bisan wala sila nagapamangkot parte sa akon.”
Pero parte sa mga Israelinhon nagsiling siya, “Sige ang akon paabot nga magbalik sa akon ang katawhan nga mga matig-a sing ulo kag mga malalison.”
Ti ano, ginsikway na bala sang Dios ang iya katawhan? Wala gid. Kay ako mismo isa ka Israelinhon, kaliwat ni Abraham, kag sakop sang tribo ni Benjamin.
Wala ginsikway sang Dios ang iya katawhan nga ginpili na niya sang una pa. Nadumduman bala ninyo ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan parte kay Elias? Indi bala nagreklamo siya sa Dios parte sa Israel?
Siling niya, Siling niya, “Ginoo, ginpamatay nila ang imo mga propeta, kag gin-guba nila ang imo mga halaran. Ako na lang isa ang nabilin nga buhi kag ginatinguhaan man nila ako nga patyon.”
Pero ano bala ang sabat sang Ginoo sa iya? “May ginbilin ako nga 7,000 ka Israelinhon nga wala nagluhod sa imahen ni imahen ni Baal.”
Amo man ini subong sa aton panahon. May nabilin pa nga mga Israelinhon nga nagatuo sa Dios, nga mga Israelinhon nga nagatuo sa Dios, kay ginpili niya sila tungod sa iya grasya.
Ang pagpili sa ila indi tungod sa ila binuhatan kundi suno sa grasya sang Dios; kay kon ginabasi sa binuhatan, indi na ina matawag nga grasya.
Karon, makasiling kita nga ang mga Israelinhon wala nakabaton sang ila ginahandom nga mangin matarong nga mangin matarong . Ang ginpili lang sang Dios amo ang nakabaton sang ila ginahandom, pero ang iban ginpatig-a ang ila ulo ang ila ulo .
kag hasta subong indi nila maintiendihan ang ila nakita kag nabatian.”
“Kabay pa nga ang ila mga punsyon
Kabay pa nga mabulagan sila. Kag kabay pa nga magbuluktot sila permi.”
Nasandad ang mga Judio kay wala sila nagtuo kay Cristo kay wala sila nagtuo kay Cristo . Ti, ano karon? Nagakahulugan bala nga padayon na gid ang ila pagkahulog? Indi! Kundi tungod sa ila paglapas, nahatagan sing kahigayunan ang mga indi Judio nga maluwas. Kag sa sini mahisa ang mga Judio.
Karon, kon ang paglapas kag ang kakulangan sang mga Judio nagdala sang madamo nga pagpakamaayo sa mga indi Judio, daw ano pa gid nga mga pagpakamaayo ang mangin resulta kon makompleto ang mga Judio nga dapat magtuo sa iya nga dapat magtuo sa iya .
Karon, nagahambal ako sa inyo nga mga indi Judio. Ginhimo ako sang Dios nga apostol para sa inyo. Kag ginakabig ko nga importante ini nga buluhaton nga ginhatag sa akon,
kay basi kon paagi sini mapahisa ko sa inyo ang akon mga kapareho nga mga Judio, para ang iban sa ila maluwas.
Kay kon ang pagsikway sang Dios sa mga Judio nangin kabangdanan nga ang iban nga mga tawo sa iban nga mga tawo sa kalibutan nakapalapit sa Dios, daw ano pa gid ang mangin resulta kon ang mga Judio batunon liwat sang Dios. Mangin pareho sila sa mga patay nga nabanhaw.
Kon ang parte sang tinapay nahalad sa Dios, ang bilog nga tinapay iya man sang Dios. Kag kon ang gamot sang kahoy iya sang Dios, ang mga sanga sang kahoy iya man sang Dios.
Ang mga Judio pareho sang mga sanga sang kahoy nga olibo nga ginpang-utod. Kag kamo nga mga indi Judio pareho sang mga sanga sang talunon nga olibo nga ginsugpon sa ginpang-utdan nga mga sanga. Gani nakaambit kamo sang mga kaayuhan nga ginhatag sang Dios sa mga Judio.
Pero indi kamo maghunahuna nga mas maayo pa kamo sang sa mga sanga nga ginpang-utod. Dumduma ninyo nga kamo ginsugpon lang kamo ginsugpon lang . Indi kamo ang nagabuhi sa gamot, kundi ang gamot amo ang nagabuhi sa inyo.
Basi kon may magsiling sa inyo, “Ngaa ginpang-utod sila kag kami ang ginsugpon kon indi kami mas maayo sang sa ila?”
Ginpang-utod sila tungod nga wala sila nagtuo kay Cristo kay Cristo kag kamo ang ginsugpon tungod nga nagtuo kamo. Gani indi kamo magpabugal kundi magkahadlok.
Tungod kay kon ginapang-utod sang Dios ang natural nga mga sanga, mahapos ang pagpang-utod sa inyo.
Diri makita ang kaayo sang Dios kag ang iya pagkaestrikto. Estrikto siya sa mga tawo nga indi magtuo sa iya, pero maayo siya sa inyo, kon nagapabilin kamo sa iya kaayo. Pero kon indi, pang-utdon man niya kamo.
Kag kon indi na magpatig-a ang mga Judio kundi magtuo man, isugpon niya liwat sila sa puno, kay sarang ina mahimo sang Dios.
Kay kamo pareho sang mga sanga sang talunon nga olibo nga ginpang-utod kag ginpangsugpon sa natural nga olibo, bisan pa nga indi ini kinaandan nga paagi. Pero mas mahapos para sa Dios nga ibalik ang natural nga mga sanga sa iya ginhalinan nga puno.
Mga kauturan, gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo ining tinago nga kamatuoran, para indi kamo magpabugal nga daw si sin-o gid kamo. Ang pagpatig-a sang mga Israelinhon hasta gid lang sa tion nga makompleto na ang mga indi Judio nga dapat magtuo sa iya.
kuhaon niya ang tanan nga kalautan sa mga kaliwat ni Jacob.
patawaron ko ang ila mga sala.”
Tungod kay ginsikway sang mga Judio ang Maayong Balita, nangin kaaway sila sang Dios, para kamo nga mga indi Judio mahatagan sang kahigayunan nga maluwas. Pero tungod nga mga pinili sila sang Dios, ginahigugma niya sila. Kay ginpromisa niya ini sang una sa ila mga katigulangan nga palanggaon niya ang ila mga kaliwat.
Kag wala nagabaylo ang Dios sang iya hunahuna parte sa mga tawo nga iya ginapili kag ginapakamaayo.
Sang una kamo nga mga indi Judio wala nagtuman sa Dios. Pero karon, tungod nga ang mga Judio wala nagtuman sa iya, ginakaluoyan kamo sang Dios.
Kag amo man ang matabo sa ila, nga bisan subong wala sila nagatuman sa Dios, kaluoyan man niya sila tungod nga ginakaluoyan niya kamo.
Kay gintugutan sang Dios nga ang tanan nga tawo mangin ulipon sang ila mga sala para ipakita niya sa tanan ang iya kaluoy.
Makatilingala gid ang kaayo sang Dios! Indi ta matungkad ang iya kaalam kag ang iya nahibaluan! Sin-o bala ang makaintiendi sang iya desisyon kag sang iya mga pamaagi?
Sin-o bala ang makatudlo sa iya kon ano ang iya dapat himuon?”
para may bayaran siya sa aton.”
Kay ang tanan nga butang nagahalin sa Dios, kag ginhimo ini paagi sa iya kag para sa iya. Dayawon siya hasta san-o! Amen.
Gani mga kauturan, tungod sa kaluoy sang Dios sa aton sa aton , nagapangabay ako sa inyo nga ihalad ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon bilang buhi nga halad sa Dios. Itugyan ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa pag-alagad sa iya suno sa iya luyag. Amo ini ang husto nga pagsimba sa Dios.
Indi kamo magsunod sa mga pagginawi sang mga tawo sa sini nga panahon. Tuguti ninyo ang Dios ang Dios nga bag-uhon niya ang inyo hunahuna, para mahibaluan ninyo ang kabubut-on sang Dios—kon ano ang maayo, husto, kag kon ano gid ang iya nagustuhan.
Bilang apostol nga amo ang grasya sang Dios sa akon, ginahambalan ko kamo tanan nga indi kamo maghunahuna nga daw si sin-o gid kamo, kundi hunahunaon ninyo sing husto kon ano ang inyo mga abilidad suno sa pagtuo nga ginhatag sang Dios sa inyo.
Kay kon paano nga ang aton lawas may madamo nga parte, kag ang kada parte may iya nga buluhaton,
kita nga mga tumuluo amo man. Bisan matuod nga madamo kita, isa lang kita ka lawas sa aton pagpakig-isa kay Cristo, kag nagaalangot kita sa isa kag isa.
Kag tungod nga ang kada isa sa aton may iya nga abilidad nga nabaton suno sa grasya sang Dios, gamiton ta ining ginhatag niya. Kon may ginhatagan sing abilidad sa pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios, gamiton niya ina suno sa iya pagtuo.
Kag kon may ginhatagan sing abilidad sa pagserbisyo, dapat magserbisyo siya; kon sa pagtudlo, dapat magpanudlo;
kon sa paglaygay, dapat magpanglaygay; kon sa paghatag sa mga imol, dapat maalwan nga manughatag; kon sa pagdumala, magdumala nga may kapisan; kag kon sa pagbulig sa mga nalisdan, magbulig nga may kalipay.
Kinahanglan sinsero gid ang aton paghigugma. Likawan ta ang malain, kag himuon permi ang maayo.
Bilang mag-ulutod maghigugmaanay gid kita, kag magtinahuray sa isa kag isa.
Magmapisan kita kag indi magtinamad; mag-alagad kita sa Ginoo nga hugot gid sa aton tagipusuon.
Kag tungod nga may paglaom kita, dapat mangin malipayon kita. Batason ta ang mga kabudlayan, kag magpangamuyo kita permi.
Buligan ta ang mga katawhan sang Dios sa ila mga kinahanglanon, kag batunon ta sa aton balay ang mga pangayaw.
Ipangamuyo ninyo sa Dios nga pakamaayuhon niya ang mga tawo nga nagahingabot sa inyo. Indi kamo magpangamuyo nga silutan sila sang Dios.
Magkalipay kamo upod sa mga nagakalipay, kag magkasubo upod sa mga nagakasubo.
Tratara ninyo ang isa kag isa sing palareho.
Kon may maghimo sang malain sa inyo, indi kamo magbalos sang malain. Kundi pinsaron ninyo kon paano kamo makahimo sing maayo sa atubangan sang mga tawo.
Himua ninyo ang inyo masarangan nga wala gid sing gamo sa inyo pagpakig-upod sa tanan nga tawo.
Mga hinigugma, indi gid kamo magbalos; pabay-i ang Ginoo nga magsilot sa ila sa iya Ginoo nga magsilot sa ila sa iya kaakig. Kay nagasiling ang Ginoo sa Kasulatan, “Ako ang magabalos; ako ang magasilot.”
Gani sundon ta ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan sundon ta ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan : “Kon ang imo kaaway ginagutom, pakauna; kon ginauhaw, paimna. Kay kon himuon mo ini mahuya siya sa iya ginahimo sa imo.
Indi kamo magpadaog sa malain, kundi dauga ninyo ang malain paagi sa paghimo sang maayo.
Ang kada isa sa inyo dapat magmatinumanon sa mga nagadumala sa gobyerno, kay ang tanan nga paggobyerno halin sa Dios kag ang mga manugdumala ginbutang sang Dios sa ila puwesto.
Ang nagakontra sa gobyerno nagakontra sa pagbuot sang Dios, kag ang nagahimo sini nagadala sang silot sa ila kaugalingon.
Kon maayo ang aton ginahimo, wala kita sing dapat kahadlukan sa mga nagadumala sa aton, luwas lang kon nagahimo kita sang malain. Gani para indi ka mahadlok sa mga nagadumala, maghimo ka sang maayo, kag dayawon ka pa nila.
Kay mga alagad sila sang Dios para sa aton kaayuhan. Pero kon nakahimo ka sang malain, dapat mahadlok ka sa ila, tungod nga may gahom sila sa pagsilot sa imo; kay ginbutang sila sang Dios sa ila puwesto para silutan ang mga nagahimo sang malain.
Gani dapat magpasakop kita sa aton gobyerno sa aton gobyerno ; indi lang tungod sa kahadlok naton sa silot, kundi tungod nga nahibaluan ta nga amo ini ang dapat naton nga himuon.
Amo man ini ang kabangdanan kon ngaa nagabayad kita sang aton buhis, kay ang mga manugdumala mga alagad sang Dios nga nagapangabudlay para gid sa sini nga butang.
Gani bayaran ninyo ang inyo nagkalain-lain nga klase sang buhis. Kag tahura ninyo kag padunggi ang mga may awtoridad.
Dapat indi kamo magpabilin nga may utang bisan kay sin-o, luwas lang sa utang nga amo ang paghigugmaanay sa isa kag isa. Ang nagahigugma sa iya isigkatawo nakatuman sang Kasuguan.
Kay ang mga sugo nga pareho sang, “Indi ka magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki, indi ka magpatay, indi ka magpangawat, indi ka magkahisa,”
Kon ginahigugma ta ang aton isigkatawo, wala kita nagahimo sing malain sa ila. Amo ina nga kon may paghigugma kita ginatuman ta ang bilog nga bilog nga Kasuguan.
Dapat ninyo himuon ini, tungod nga nahibaluan ninyo nga tion na ini nga dapat kamo magbugtaw. Kay ang kompleto kompleto naton nga kaluwasan mas malapit na sang sa una nga nagtuo kita kay Jesu-Cristo.
Sa baylo, ang pamatasan ni Ginoong Jesu-Cristo ang dapat makita sa inyo kabuhi. Kag indi ninyo paghatagan sing lugar ang inyo tawhanon nga kinaugali nga maghimo sang malain.
Batuna ninyo ang tawo nga maluya ang iya pagtuo, kag indi ninyo siya pagbaisa sa iya ginapatihan.
May mga tumuluo nga nagapati nga puwede makakaon sang bisan ano, kag may mga tumuluo nga maluya ang ila pagtuo ang ila pagtuo nga ang ila ginakaon utan lang.
Ang tumuluo nga nagakaon sang bisan ano indi dapat magpakanubo sa tumuluo nga ang iya ginakaon utan lang, kag ang tumuluo nga utan lang ang ginakaon indi man dapat maghukom sa nagakaon sang bisan ano. Kay sila nga duha pareho nga ginabaton sang Dios,
kag sa Dios sila manabat. Gani sin-o ka bala nga maghukom sa suluguon sang iban? Ang iya Agalon gid lang amo ang makasiling kon maayo ukon malain ang iya ginahimo. Kag mahimo gid niya ang maayo, kay ang Ginoo amo ang magabulig sa iya sa paghimo sang maayo.
May mga tawo nga nagakabig nga may mga adlaw nga labi pa ka importante sang sa iban nga mga adlaw. Kag may nagakabig man nga ang tanan nga adlaw palareho lang. Ang kada isa maghimo sang iya kaugalingon nga desisyon parte sa sini nga butang parte sa sini nga butang .
Kon ang tawo may ginapasulabi nga adlaw, ginahimo niya ini para sa Ginoo. Kag ang tawo nga nagakaon sang bisan ano, ginahimo man niya ini para sa Ginoo, tungod nga nagapasalamat siya sa Dios sa iya ginakaon. Ang iban nga wala nagakaon sang iban nga pagkaon nagahimo sini para man sa Ginoo, kag nagapasalamat man sila sa Dios.
Kay wala sing bisan sin-o sa aton ang nagakabuhi ukon mapatay para sa iya kaugalingon.
Kon nagakabuhi kita, nagakabuhi kita para sa Ginoo, kag kon mapatay kita, para man sa Ginoo. Gani kon nagakabuhi kita ukon mapatay, iya kita sang Ginoo.
Amo gani nga si Cristo napatay kag nabanhaw, para mangin Ginoo siya sang mga buhi kag mga patay.
Gani indi kamo magpakanubo ukon maghukom sa inyo mga kauturan. Kay kita tanan magaatubang sa hukmanan sang Dios.
kag magakilala nga ako Dios.”
Amo ini nga ang kada isa sa aton magapanabat sa Dios sa aton mga ginhimo diri sa kalibutan.
Gani indi na kita maghukom sa isa kag isa. Sa baylo, likawan ta ang mga butang nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang aton kauturan.
Tungod nga ako ara kay Ginoong Jesus, nahibaluan ko nga wala sing pagkaon nga indi matinlo. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga nagakabig nga may pagkaon nga ginadumilian, ti indi siya dapat magkaon sina.
Karon, kon tungod sang imo ginakaon nalainan ang imo utod, wala ka nagahigugma sa iya. Napatay man si Cristo para sa iya, gani indi paggub-a ang iya pagtuo tungod sang imo ginakaon.
Bisan ginakabig ninyo nga ang isa ka butang indi malain, indi ninyo paghimua kon pakalainon kamo sang iban tungod sini.
Kay ang paghari sang Dios indi parte sa pagkaon kag pag-inom, kundi parte sa matarong nga kabuhi, maayo nga relasyon sa isa kag isa, kag kalipay nga halin sa Espiritu Santo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagaalagad kay Cristo sa sini nga paagi amo ang nagustuhan sang Dios kag ginatahod sang mga tawo.
Gani tinguhaan ta gid ang paghimo sang mga butang nga nagadala sing maayo nga relasyon kag nagapabakod sa isa kag isa.
Indi paggub-a ang pagtuo sang ginluwas sang Dios tungod lang sa pagkaon. Sarang makaon ang tanan nga klase sang pagkaon, pero indi maayo nga magkaon sang pagkaon nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang iban.
Ang maayo nga himuon, indi ka magkaon sang karne ukon mag-inom sang makahulubog nga ilimnon ukon maghimo sang bisan ano nga mangin kabangdanan nga magpakasala ang imo utod.
Gani kon ano man ang ginapatihan mo parte sa sini nga mga butang, dapat ikaw na lang kag ang Dios ang nakahibalo. Bulahan ang tawo nga wala niya ginahusgaran ang iya kaugalingon sa mga butang nga ginahimo niya nga para sa iya husto.
Pero kon nagaduhaduha siya sa iya pagkaon, sa iya pagkaon, konsensyahon siya
Kita nga mga mabakod sa pagtuo sa pagtuo dapat magpasunaid kag magbulig sa aton mga kaupod nga maluya pa. Indi lang ang aton gusto ang aton hunahunaon,
kundi hunahunaon ta man ang kaayuhan sang kapareho ta nga tumuluo, para mapabakod ang iya pagtuo.
Bisan gani si Cristo wala naghandom sang iya kaugalingon nga kaayuhan. Kundi suno sa ginasiling sang Kasulatan, “Ang mga insulto sang mga tawo sa imo ginbatyag ko.”
Ang tanan nga ginsulat sa Kasulatan sang una ginsulat sa pagtudlo sa aton. Paagi sa Kasulatan, ginatudluan kita nga batason ta ang mga kalisod, kag paagi man sa sini ginapabakod ang aton paglaom.
Kabay pa nga ang Dios nga nagapabakod sa aton kag nagahatag sa aton sang pagbatas magabulig sa inyo nga mag-isa kamo bilang mga sumulunod ni Cristo Jesus,
para magtingob kamo sa pagdayaw sa Dios kag Amay sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Ginbaton kamo ni Cristo, gani batuna man ninyo ang isa kag isa para madayaw ang Dios.
Ang kabangdanan kon ngaa ginsugo si Cristo sa pag-alagad sa mga Judio indi lang sa pagpakita nga ang Dios masaligan sa pagtuman sang iya mga promisa sang una sa ila mga katigulangan,
Kantahan ko ikaw sang mga pagdayaw.”
magkalipay kamo kaupod sa katawhan sang Ginoo!”
Tanan kamo nga katawhan, dayawa ninyo siya!”
kag magasalig sila sa iya.”
Kabay pa nga ang Dios nga nagahatag sang paglaom maghatag man sa inyo sang kalipay kag kalinong tungod sang inyo pagtuo sa iya, agod paagi sa gahom sang Espiritu Santo magadugang pa gid ang inyo paglaom.
Mga kauturan, nasiguro ko gid nga maayo kamo nga mga tawo. Nasiguro ko man nga madamo na ang inyo nahibaluan, kag sarang na kamo makalaygay sa isa kag isa.
Pero nagsulat gihapon ako sa inyo nga wala sing lipod-lipod parte sa pila ka butang nga dapat ipadumdom sa inyo, kay nabaton ko ang grasya sang Dios
nga mangin alagad ni Cristo Jesus para sa mga indi Judio. Nagaalagad ako sa ila bilang pari kag ginatudlo ko sa ila ang Maayong Balita halin sa Dios para mangin halad sila nga iya maluyagan, nga mangin iya paagi sa Espiritu Santo.
Kag tungod nga ako ara kay Cristo Jesus, sarang ako makapabugal sang akon nahimo sa pag-alagad sa Dios.
Kag wala ako sing iban nga ipabugal kundi ang mga ginhimo ni Cristo paagi sa akon, nga ang mga indi Judio nagasunod na sa iya paagi sa akon mga pagtudlo kag mga hinimuan,
sa bulig sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang—kag ini tanan paagi sa gahom sang Espiritu Santo Santo . Ang Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo ginwali ko bisan diin ako nagkadto, kag naglibot pa gani ako halin sa Jerusalem hasta sa Iliricum.
Handom ko gid nga magwali sa mga lugar nga ang mga tawo wala pa makabati sang Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo, tungod kay indi ko gusto nga magwali sa mga lugar nga nawalihan na sang iban.
kag ang wala pa makabati parte sa iya parte sa iya makaintiendi.”
Gani wala pa ako makaabot dira sa inyo tungod nga naglibot ako sa mga banwa diri tungod nga naglibot ako sa mga banwa diri .
Pero karon, tungod nga natapos ko na ang akon obra sa sini nga mga lugar, kag tungod nga pila na ka tuig ang akon handom nga makakadto dira sa inyo,
ayhan magakitaay na gid kita. Kay ang akon plano maagi ako dira sa inyo kon magpa-Espania ako. Gusto ko nga malipay sa pagpakig-upod sa inyo bisan sa malip-ot lang nga tion antes ako magpa-Espania paagi sa inyo pagpatigayon.
Pero karon makadto ako anay sa Jerusalem para idul-ong ang bulig para sa mga katawhan sang Dios didto.
Kay ang mga tumuluo sa mga tumuluo sa Macedonia kag Acaya nagbuluntar nga maghatag sang bulig sa mga imol nga mga katawhan sang Dios didto sa Jerusalem.
Gusto nila nga himuon ini. Kon sa bagay may kabalaslan sila sa mga tumuluo sa Jerusalem. Kay kon indi tungod sa mga tumuluo sa Jerusalem, ining mga indi Judio wala nakabaton sang espiritual nga mga pagpakamaayo. Gani dapat nga buligan sang mga indi Judio ang mga tumuluo sa Jerusalem sa ila materyal nga mga kinahanglanon.
Pagkatapos nga madala ko ini nga mga bulig sa ila kag masiguro nga nabaton gid nila, mahapit ako dira sa inyo antes ako magpa-Espania.
Kag nagapati ako nga sa pag-abot ko dira, madamo nga pagpakamaayo halin kay Cristo ang mabaton ta sa isa kag isa.
Gani mga kauturan, tungod kay Jesu-Cristo nga aton Ginoo, kag tungod sa gugma nga ginhatag sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa aton, nagapangabay ako nga buligan ninyo ako sa pagpangamuyo sing hugot sa Dios para sa akon.
Pangamuyo kamo nga indi ako maano sang mga indi tumuluo sa Judea, kag pangamuyo man kamo nga malipay ang mga katawhan sang Dios sa Jerusalem sa bulig nga akon dal-on sa ila.
Dayon, kon itugot sang Dios, makadto ako dira sa inyo nga puno sing kalipay, kag makapahuway ako kaupod ninyo.
Kabay pa nga ubayan kamo sang Dios nga nagahatag sang kalinong sa aton kabuhi. Amen.
Karon gusto ko nga ipakilala sa inyo ang aton utod nga si Febe. Nagaalagad siya sa iglesya sa Cencrea.
Batuna ninyo siya bilang inyo utod bilang inyo utod sa Ginoo kag amo gid ini ang dapat ninyo himuon bilang mga katawhan sang Dios. Buligan ninyo siya sa iya mga kinahanglanon, kay madamo ang iya nabuligan. Ako gani nabuligan man niya.
Ikamusta ninyo ako kay Priscila kag kay Aquila. Ini sila kaupod ko man nga mga manugpangabudlay kay Cristo Jesus.
Gintaya nila ang ila kabuhi sa katalagman para sa akon; kag indi lang ako ang nagapasalamat sa ila, kundi ang tanan man nga iglesya nga indi Judio.
Nagapangamusta man ako sa akon hinigugma nga abyan nga si Epenetus. Siya ang nahauna nga nagtuo kay Cristo sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia.
Kamusta man kay Maria. Nagpangabudlay siya sing tudo-tudo para sa inyo.
Kamusta man sa akon mga kapareho nga Judio nga si Andronicus kag si Junias. Ini sila kaupod ko nga napriso. Kilala sila sang mga apostoles, kag una pa sila sa akon nga nag-Kristohanon.
Nagapangamusta man ako sa akon hinigugma nga abyan sa Ginoo nga si Ampliatus.
Kamusta man kay Urbanus nga kaupod namon nga manugpangabudlay kay Cristo, kag sa akon hinigugma nga abyan nga si Stakis.
Kamusta man kay Apeles. Bisan madamo ang iya naagyan nga mga pag-antos, wala gid siya nagtalikod kay Cristo. Kamusta man sa panimalay ni Aristobulus,
kay Herodion nga akon kapareho nga Judio, kag sa mga ara sa Ginoo sa panimalay ni Narcisus.
Nagapangamusta man ako kay Trifena kag kay Trifosa. Ini sila mga mapisan nga mga manugpangabudlay sa Ginoo. Kamusta man sa aton hinigugma nga abyan nga si Persis. Madamo ang iya nahimo para sa Ginoo.
Nagapangamusta man ako kay Rufus. Ini siya bantog nga manugpangabudlay sa Ginoo. Kamusta man sa iya iloy, nga ang pagkabig niya sa akon pareho gid sa iya anak.
Kamusta man sa ila ni Asyncritus, Flegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, kag sa mga kauturan nga kaupod nila.
Kamusta sa ila ni Filologus, Julia, Nereus, kag sa iya utod nga babayi, kay Olimpas, kag sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios nga kaupod nila.
Magkamustahanay kamo bilang mag-ulutod kay Cristo.
Nagapangabay ako sa inyo mga kauturan nga mag-andam kamo sa mga tawo nga ginahalinan sang pagbinahin-bahin kag nagatublag sang pagtuo sang mga tumuluo. Ginakontra nila ang mga pagpanudlo nga gintudlo sa inyo. Gani likawi ninyo sila.
Ang mga tawo nga nagahimo sina wala nagaalagad kay Cristo nga aton Ginoo, kundi ang ila lang gusto
Bantog gid ang inyo pagtuman kay Cristo, gani nalipay gid ako; pero gusto ko nga magmaalamon kamo kon parte sa paghimo sang maayo, kag ignorante kon parte sa paghimo sang malain.
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon kamo sang aton Ginoong Jesus.
Ang akon kaupod nga manugpangabudlay nga si Timoteo nagapangamusta man sa inyo, pati si Lucio, si Jason, kag si Sosipater nga akon kapareho nga mga Judio.
(Ako, si Tertius nga ara man sa Ginoo, nagapangamusta man sa inyo. Ako ang nagsulat sining sulat ni Pablo ni Pablo .)
Si Gaius nagapangamusta man sa inyo. Ako, si Pablo, nagadayon diri sa iya balay, kag diri man nagatipon ang mga tumuluo sa pagsimba sa Dios. Si Erastus nga tresurero sang siyudad kag ang aton utod nga si Quartus nagapangamusta man sa inyo.
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon gid kamo tanan sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Amen.
Dayawon ta ang Dios nga makapabakod sa inyo suno sa Maayong Balita nga akon ginawali sa inyo. Ining Maayong Balita nga parte kay Jesu-Cristo madugay na nga gintago,
pero ginpahayag na ini subong paagi sa mga sinulatan sang mga propeta. Ini suno sa sugo sang wala sing kamatayon nga Dios, para ang tanan nga tawo magtuo kag magtuman sa iya.
Paagi kay Jesu-Cristo, dayawon ta hasta san-o ang Dios nga amo lang ang nakahibalo sang tanan! Amen.
Ako Ako si Pablo nga gintawag sang Dios nga mangin apostol ni Cristo Jesus. Ako Ako kag si Sostenes nga aton utod
nagapangamusta nagapangamusta sa iglesya sang Dios dira sa Corinto. Ginpain na kamo sang Dios para mangin iya sang Dios para mangin iya tungod sa inyo pagpakig-isa kay Cristo Jesus. Ginpili niya kamo nga mangin iya mga katawhan upod sang tanan nga nagadangop sa aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo sa bisan diin nga lugar. Siya Ginoo naton tanan.
Nagapasalamat ako permi sa Dios sa mga pagpakamaayo nga iya ginhatag sa inyo tungod nga kamo ara kay Cristo Jesus.
Kay sa inyo pagpakig-isa kay Cristo, ginpabugana kamo sang Dios sang Dios sa tanan nga butang—sa ihibalo kag sa paghambal.
Sa sini napamatud-an sa inyo nga matuod ang amon mga gintudlo parte kay Cristo.
Gani wala gid kamo makulangi sang espiritual nga mga abilidad nga ginahatag sang Dios samtang nagahulat kamo sang pagbalik sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Si Cristo amo ang magapabakod sang inyo pagtuo hasta sa katapusan, para sa pag-abot sang adlaw nga siya maghukom, wala siya sing may ikasaway sa inyo.
Masaligan ang Dios nga nagtawag sa inyo sa pagpakig-isa sa iya Anak nga si Jesu-Cristo nga aton Ginoo.
Mga kauturan, nagapangabay ako sa inyo sa ngalan
Nasambit ko ini Nasambit ko ini tungod nga may nagsugid sa akon halin sa pamilya ni Cloe nga may nagailinaway dira sa inyo.
Ang buot ko silingon amo ini: may ara kuno dira sa inyo nga nagasiling, “Ako sa kay Pablo,” kag may ara man nga nagasiling, “Ako sa kay Apolos,” ang iban pa gid nagasiling, “Ako sa kay Pedro,”
Indi ina maayo! Ngaa, Indi ina maayo! Ngaa, ginapartida bala si Cristo? Si Pablo wala nagpalansang sa krus para sa inyo. Wala man kamo pagbautisuhi sa ngalan ni Pablo.
Nagapasalamat ako sa Dios nga wala ako sing may ginbautisohan sa inyo magluwas lang kay Crispus kag kay Gaius.
Gani wala sing may makasiling nga ginbautisohan kamo sa akon ngalan.
(Ginbautisohan ko man gali si Stefanas kag ang iya pamilya. Pero magluwas sa sini nga mga tawo wala na ako sing may nadumduman pa.)
Kay wala ako pagsugua ni Cristo sa pagbautiso kundi sa pagwali sang Maayong Balita, indi sa tawhanon nga tawhanon nga kaalam kay basi madulaan na sang gahom ang kamatayon ni Cristo sa krus.
Sa mga tawo nga nagakalawala
kag ipakita ko nga wala sing pulos ang pag-intiendi sang mga may tinun-an.”
Ano karon ang pulos sang mga maalam, sang mga manunudlo sang Kasuguan, kag sang mga puwerte magdebate sa sini nga panahon? Kay ginpakita sang Dios nga kabuangan lang ang kalibutanon nga kaalam.
Kay sa kaalam sang Dios wala siya magtugot nga makilala siya sang mga tawo paagi sa kalibutanon nga kaalam. Kundi ginpakamaayo sang Dios nga luwason ang mga tawo paagi sa ila pagtuo sa ginawali nga Maayong Balita, nga Maayong Balita, nga suno sa mga tawo nga wala nagatuo kabuangan lang.
Ang mga Judio indi magtuo kon wala sing milagro nga makita, kag ang mga Griego nagapangita sang ginasiling nila nga ginasiling nila nga kaalam.
Pero kami ya, ginawali namon si Cristo nga ginlansang sa krus. Ini nga pagwali Ini nga pagwali indi mabaton sang mga Judio kag kabuangan para sa mga indi Judio.
Pero sa mga tawo nga gintawag sang Dios, Judio man ukon indi, si Cristo amo ang gahom kag ang kaalam sang Dios.
Kay ang ginahunahuna nila nga ginahunahuna nila nga kabuangan sang Dios mas labaw pa sang sa kaalam sang mga tawo, kag ang ginahunahuna nila nga ginahunahuna nila nga kaluyahon sang Dios mas makusog pa sang sa kusog sang mga tawo.
Mga kauturan, dumduma ninyo kon ano ang inyo kahimtangan sang wala pa kamo pagtawga sang Dios, pila gid lang sa inyo ang ginakabig nga maalam ukon may ikasarang, kag pila man lang ang naghalin sa kilala nga mga pamilya.
Pero ginpili sang Dios ang mga tawo nga ginakabig sang katawhan nga indi maalam para pakahuy-an ang mga maalam, kag ginpili man niya ang mga tawo nga wala gid sing gahom para pakahuy-an ang mga tawo nga gamhanan.
Ginpili sang Dios ang mga kubos kag ang mga talamayon, nga mga ginakabig nga wala sing pulos, para ipakita niya nga indi importante ang ginakabig sang mga tawo nga importante.
Gani wala sing may makapabugal sa atubangan sang Dios.
Sa pagbuot sang Dios ara kita kay Cristo Jesus. Si Cristo amo ang kaalam sang Dios
Gani, pareho sang ginasiling sang Kasulatan, “Ang bisan sin-o nga gusto magpabugal, dapat ipabugal lamang lamang niya ang ginhimo sang Ginoo.”
Mga kauturan, sang pagkadto ko dira sa inyo sa pagwali sang mga tinago nga kamatuoran sang Dios, wala ako naggamit sang madalom nga mga pulong ukon madalom nga mga kaalam.
Kay gindesisyunan ko nga wala na ako sing iban pa nga iwali sa inyo kundi si Jesu-Cristo lang kag ang iya pagpalansang sa krus.
Nagkadto ako dira sa inyo nga may kaluyahon. Nagkurog pa gani ako sa kakulba.
Sang pagwali ko sa inyo, wala ako naggamit sang mabinulakbulakon nga mga pulong para makombinsi kamo, kundi ang Espiritu Santo Santo amo ang nagpamatuod sa akon ginpanghambal paagi sa iya gahom,
para ang inyo pagtuo indi mapasad sa kaalam sang tawo kundi sa gahom sang Dios.
Kon sa bagay, nagatudlo kami sang madalom nga kaalam sa amon mga pagtudlo sa mga tawo nga mabakod na ang ila pagtuo sa Dios, pero ini nga kaalam wala naghalin sa mga tawo ukon sa mga nagadumala sa sini nga panahon nga natalana na nga magakawala.
Ining kaalam nga akon ginasiling amo ang tinago nga kaalam sang Dios nga wala ginpahayag sa mga tawo sang una. Sang wala pa matuga sang Dios ang kalibutan, ginplano na niya ini nga mga butang para mapadunggan niya kita.
Ang mga nagadumala sa sini nga panahon wala nakaintiendi sang plano sang Dios. Kay kon naintiendihan nila, wala kuntani nila ginlansang sa krus ang Ginoo nga makagagahom.
sa mga tawo nga nagahigugma sa iya.”
Ini nga plano sang Dios ginpahibalo na sa aton paagi sa iya Espiritu. Kay ang tanan nga butang nahibaluan sang Espiritu, bisan pa ang mga madalom nga hunahuna sang Dios.
Pareho sa aton nga mga tawo, wala sing may nakahibalo sang ginahunahuna sang isa ka tawo magluwas lang sa iya kaugalingon nga espiritu. Amo man ang sa Dios, wala sing may nakahibalo sang iya hunahuna magluwas lang sa Espiritu sang Dios.
Kag kita nga mga tumuluo ginhatagan sini nga Espiritu nga halin sa Dios kag indi ang iya sang kalibutan, para maintiendihan ta ang mga pagpakamaayo nga ginhatag sang Dios sa aton.
Gani ang mga pulong nga amon ginahambal halin sa Espiritu Santo Santo kag indi halin sa kaalam sang tawo. Ginapaathag namon ang mga pagpanudlo nga halin sa Espiritu sa mga tawo nga ara sa ila ang Espiritu.
Pero ang tawo nga wala sa iya ang Espiritu sang Dios indi magbaton sang mga pagpanudlo nga halin sa Espiritu, tungod nga para sa iya kabuangan lang ini. Kag indi niya ini maintiendihan tungod nga ang Espiritu gid lang sang Dios amo ang makabulig sa iya sa pag-usisa sini nga mga butang.
Ang tawo nga ara sa iya ang Espiritu sang Dios makausisa sing husto sing husto sa tanan nga butang. Pero indi makausisa sa iya sing husto sing husto ang mga tawo nga wala sa ila ang Espiritu sang Dios. nga wala sa ila ang Espiritu sang Dios.
Pero kita, ara sa aton ang hunahuna ni Cristo.
Mga kauturan, sang una indi ako makatudlo sa inyo bilang mga tawo nga ginatuytuyan sang Espiritu Santo Santo kundi mga tawo nga nagakabuhi sa ila tawhanon nga kinaugali kag bata pa sa ila relasyon kay Cristo.
Amo ina nga simple gid lang nga mga pagpanudlo ang akon gintudlo sa inyo, tungod kay indi pa ninyo masarangan ang madalom nga mga pagpanudlo. Kag bisan gani subong indi pa gid kamo makaintiendi.
Kay hasta subong, nagakabuhi pa kamo sa inyo tawhanon nga kinaugali tungod kay nagahinisaay kamo kag nagailinaway. Ining inyo ginahimo nagapamatuod lang nga pareho pa gihapon kamo sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan.
May ara sa inyo nga nagasiling, “Ako kay Pablo,” kag may ara man nga nagasiling, “Ako kay Apolos.” Ti kundi pareho gid kamo sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan, kay nagabinahin-bahin kamo kay nagabinahin-bahin kamo .
Kon sa bagay sin-o gid bala si Apolos? Kag sin-o gid si Pablo? Mga alagad man lang kami sang Ginoo nga iya gin-gamit para magtuo kamo. Ang kada isa sa amon nagahimo man lang sing buluhaton nga ginhatag sang Ginoo sa amon.
Ako ang nagtanom, kag si Apolos ang nagbunyag, pero ang Dios amo ang nagpatubo.
Indi importante ang nagatanom kag ang nagabunyag. Ang Dios lang gid ang importante kay siya ang nagapatubo.
Ang nagatanom kag ang nagabunyag pareho lang nga mga alagad, kag kada isa sa ila balusan sang Dios suno sa ila pagpangabudlay.
Ang halimbawa pa gid ninyo pareho sang isa ka balay nga iya ginapatindog.
Kag ako, bilang eksperto nga pangulo nga panday sang Dios, amo ang nagtukod sang pundasyon suno sa abilidad nga ginhatag niya sa akon. Pagkatapos, ang iban naman nga panday amo ang nagapadayon obra sini. Pero kinahanglan gid nga siguruhon sang kada panday nga maayo ang iya obra.
Kay indi puwede nga magbutang sang iban pa nga pundasyon magluwas sa ginbutang na, nga amo si Jesu-Cristo.
May mga tawo nga husto ang ila ginatudlo husto ang ila ginatudlo . Ang ila halimbawa pareho sang nagapatindog sang balay sa pundasyon, nga ang ginagamit nga mga materyales bulawan, pilak, ukon mga malahalon nga mga bato. Ang iban ya, wala sing pulos ang ila mga ginatudlo. Pareho lang nga nagpatindog sila sang balay sa mga materyales nga Ang iban ya, wala sing pulos ang ila mga ginatudlo. Pareho lang nga nagpatindog sila sang balay sa mga materyales nga kahoy, kugon, kag dagami.
Pero sa adlaw sang paghukom, mahibaluan kon ano nga klase sang mga materyales ang gin-gamit sang kada isa, kay pagatilawan ini sa kalayo.
Kon ang ginpatindog sa pundasyon indi masunog, magabaton ang nagpatindog sang balos.
Pero kon masunog, wala gid siya sing may mabaton nga balos; pero ang iya kaugalingon maluwas. Ang iya halimbawa mangin pareho sa tawo nga nakaluwas sa balay nga nasunog, pero wala gid siya sing may nadala.
Indi bala nga templo kamo sang Dios kag ang Espiritu sang Dios nagapuyo sa inyo?
Gani kon gub-on ninyo ang ginapuy-an sang Dios, silutan niya kamo tungod nga ang templo sang Dios balaan. Kag ang templo nga ina wala sing iban kundi kamo mismo.
Indi pagdayai ang inyo kaugalingon. Kon may ara sa inyo nga nagahunahuna nga maalam siya suno sa mga tawo suno sa mga tawo sa sini nga panahon, dapat ibaliwala lang niya ina nga kaalam para mangin maalam siya sa panulok sang Dios sa panulok sang Dios .
Kay para sa Dios, ang ginakabig nga kaalam sa sining kalibutan kabuangan lang. Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ginadakop sang Dios ang mga maalam sa ila pagkadayaon.”
Kag may ara pa gid sa Kasulatan nga nagasiling, “Nahibaluan sang Ginoo nga ang mga ginarason sang mga tawo nga maalam wala sing pulos.”
Gani indi dapat nga ang isa ka tawo ipabugal. Kay kami tanan nga nagatudlo ginhatag sang Dios sa inyo para sa inyo kaayuhan.
Ako, si Apolos, kag si Pedro
Kag kamo ya, iya ni Cristo kag si Cristo iya sang Dios.
Gani dapat kamo magkabig sa amon nga mga alagad kami ni Cristo nga gintugyanan sang Dios nga magbalita sang iya mga tinago nga kamatuoran.
Kag ang tawo nga gintugyanan dapat magpakita nga masaligan gid siya.
Wala sing kaso sa akon kon ginausisa ninyo ako ukon ni bisan sin-o. Ako mismo wala nagasiling nga ang akon pag-alagad sa Dios maayo ukon indi.
Kon sa bagay limpyo ang akon konsensya, pero wala ina nagakahulugan nga wala na ako sing sala. Ang Ginoo gid lang ang makausisa sa akon.
Gani indi kamo maghukom sa wala pa mag-abot ang husto nga panahon. Hulata ninyo ang pag-abot sang Ginoo. Amo ina ang tion nga ipaguwa niya ang tanan nga sekreto kag motibo sang kada isa. Dayon ang kada isa magabaton sang pagdayaw nga halin sa Dios nga bagay gid sa iya mga ginhimo nga bagay gid sa iya mga ginhimo .
Mga kauturan, gin-gamit ko nga halimbawa para sa inyo ang akon kaugalingon kag si Apolos, para matun-an ninyo ang ginasiling nga “Indi magpasobra sa ginasiling sang Kasulatan.” Gani indi ninyo pag-ipabugal ang isa kag magsiling nga mas maayo siya sang sa isa.
Ngaa nagahunahuna kamo nga mas maayo gid kamo sang sa iban? Ano ang ara sa inyo nga wala naghalin sa Dios? Kag kon sa Dios naghalin, ti ngaa ginapabugal ninyo nga daw inyo gid?
Nagahunahuna kamo nga wala na sing kulang sa inyo, nga bugana na kamo kag nagahari na sa ginharian sang Dios sa ginharian sang Dios bisan kami amon wala pa. Kuntani nagahari na kamo para makahari man kami upod sa inyo.
Kon sa akon lang, kami nga mga apostoles daw ginbutang sang Dios sa pinakamanubo nga kahimtangan. Pareho kami sa mga tawo nga sentensyado na nga patyon kag ginatulok sang bilog nga kalibutan, sang tanan nga tawo pati sang tanan nga anghel.
Tungod sa amon pagtudlo parte sa amon pagtudlo parte kay Cristo, nagasiling ang mga tawo nga nagasiling ang mga tawo nga mga buang kami. Pero kamo inyo, nagahunahuna nga nagahunahuna nga mga maalam kamo tungod nga kamo ara kay Cristo. Mga maluya kami, pero sa inyo hunahuna, sa inyo hunahuna, kamo indi. Ginadayaw pa kamo sang mga tawo, pero kami ya ginainsulto lang nila.
Hasta gani subong ginaagwanta lang namon ang kagutom kag kauhaw, kag ginakulang pa kami sang amon mga bayo. Ginasakit kami sang mga tawo, kag wala kami sang kaugalingon nga balay.
Nagaobra kami sing tudo para lang mabuhi para lang mabuhi . Ginapangamuyuan namon ang mga tawo nga nagapakalain sa amon nga kaluoyan pa gid sila sang Dios. Kag ginaagwanta lang namon ang mga paghingabot sang mga tawo.
Ginapakahuy-an kami, pero nagasabat kami sing malulo. Hasta subong, sa hunahuna sang mga tawo daw basura kami, mga labing kubos nga klase sang mga tawo.
Wala ako nagasulat sini sa tuyo nga pakahuy-an kamo, kundi gusto ko nga tudluan kamo bilang mga hinigugma ko nga mga anak.
Kay bisan madamo ang nagatudlo sa inyo parte kay Cristo isa gid lang ang inyo amay sa pagtuo sa pagtuo . Mga anak ko kamo kay Cristo Jesus tungod nga ako ang nagdala sa inyo sang Maayong Balita.
Gani ginapangabay ko kamo nga sundon ninyo ang akon ginahimo.
Amo ina nga ginapadala ko dira sa inyo si Timoteo nga akon hinigugma kag masaligan nga anak sa Ginoo, para magpadumdom siya sa inyo sang akon mga pamaagi sa pagkabuhi bilang sumulunod ni Cristo. Ini nga mga pamaagi akon man nga ginatudlo sa tanan nga iglesya sa bisan diin nga lugar.
Ang iban sa inyo nagapabugal na, kay abi nila indi na ako magkadto dira.
Pero kon itugot sang Ginoo, makadto ako dira sa labing madali. Kag tan-awon ko gid kon ano ang mahimo sang sina nga mga tawo nga masyado kahambog kon maghambal.
Kay ang matuod, kon ang Dios amo ang nagahari sa aton kabuhi, mahibaluan man ina sang iban paagi sa aton mga hinimuan kag indi sa mga sugid lang.
Gani magpili kamo kon ano ang inyo gusto: pag-abot ko dira pang-akigan ko kamo ukon higugmaon nga may kalulo?
May nabalitaan ako nga may ara dira sa inyo nga nagapakighilawas sa asawa sang iya amay. Ini sobra pa sa ginahimo sang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios, kay wala gani sila nagahimo sina.
Kag sa pihak sina sa pihak sina nahimo pa ninyo nga magpabugal. Dapat kuntani nagpangasubo kamo kag ginpahalin ninyo sa inyo grupo ang lalaki nga naghimo sina.
itugyan ninyo ina nga tawo kay Satanas sa paglaglag sang iya lawas para maluwas ang iya espiritu sa adlaw sang paghukom sang paghukom sang Ginoo.
Indi kamo dapat magpabugal. Indi bala nahibaluan ninyo ang hulubaton nga nagasiling, “Kon ibutang ang gamay nga inugpahabok
Gani kuhaa ninyo ang inyo daan nga mga sala nga pareho sa mga sala nga pareho sa inugpahabok, para mangin matinlo kag bag-o kamo. Ang matuod, hilway na kamo sa sining daan nga inugpahabok, kay si Cristo ginhalad na para sa aton. Pareho siya sa karnero nga ginahalad kon Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.
Gani magselebrar kita sang sina nga piesta, kag magkaon sang tinapay nga wala sing inugpahabok, nga ang buot silingon talikdan ta na ang aton daan nga mga sala kag mga ginahimo nga malain, kag magkabuhi kita nga matinlo na sa sala, nga sinsero gid ang aton pagsunod sa kamatuoran.
Sa una ko nga sulat nga ginpadala sa inyo, nagsiling ako nga indi kamo magpakig-upod sa mga nagahimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon.
Ang buot ko silingon, indi ang mga tawo nga wala pa makakilala sa Dios nga mga imoral ukon mga dalok-dalok kag mga kawatan, ukon mga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios. Kay kon sila inyo likawan, kinahanglan maghalin kamo sa sini nga kalibutan.
Ang akon ginatumod amo atong mga tawo nga nagapakilala nga mga kauturan pero mga imoral, dalok-dalok, nagasimba sa mga dios-dios, nagapang-insulto, palahubog, kag kawatan. Indi kamo dapat mag-upod sa ila bisan sa pagkaon.
Kon ang isa sa inyo may reklamo kontra sa iya kapareho nga tumuluo, ngaa ginadala pa niya ini sa husgado nga wala makakilala sa Dios? Ngaa wala niya ginadala sa mga katawhan sang Dios para husayon ini nga problema para husayon ini nga problema ?
Indi bala nga sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw kita nga sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw kita nga mga katawhan sang Dios amo ang magahukom sa mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan? Gani kon kamo ang magahukom sa mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan, ngaa indi kamo makasarang maghusay sang sina nga mga kaso nga tama kagamay?
Indi bala nga bisan gani ang mga anghel aton pagahukman? Ti kundi masarangan man ninyo nga husayon ang mga kaso sa sining pagkabuhi.
Gani kon may mga kaso kamo sa isa kag isa, ngaa ginadala pa ninyo ina sa mga tawo nga wala gani ginakilala sang iglesya?
Dapat mahuya kamo! Ano, wala gid bala dira sa inyo sang maalam nga kahibalo maghusay sang inyo ginaawayan?
Palareho kamo nga mga tumuluo, pero kamo man mismo ang nagaakusaray, kag didto pa mismo sa atubangan sang mga indi tumuluo.
Sa inyo pag-akusaray kamo mismo ang pierdi. Mas maayo pa nga pabay-an na lang ninyo ang nagahimo sa inyo sang malain kag nagadaya sa inyo.
Pero ang inyo ginahimo, kamo mismo ang nagadaya kag nagahimo sang malain bisan pa sa inyo mga kauturan.
Indi bala nga ang tawo nga nagahimo sing malain indi masakop sa paghari sang Dios? Gani indi ninyo pagdayai ang inyo kaugalingon! Kay indi gid masakop sa paghari sang Dios ang mga nagahimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon, ang mga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios, ang mga nagapanginbabayi kag mga nagapanginlalaki, ang mga lalaki nga nagabaligya sang ila lawas, ang mga lalaki nga nagauluasawa sa pareho nila nga lalaki,
ang mga kawatan, ang mga dalok-dalok, ang mga palahubog, ang mga nagahambal sang malain kontra sa ila isigkatawo, kag ang mga tulisan.
Ang iban sa inyo pareho sini sang una. Pero natinluan na kamo sa inyo mga sala, ginpain na kamo sang Dios nga mangin iya, kag ginpakamatarong na kamo tungod kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo
Ayhan may magasiling, Ayhan may magasiling, “Puwede ako maghimo sang bisan ano.” Matuod ina, Matuod ina, pero may mga butang nga indi makabulig sa imo. Gani bisan ginatugot sa akon ang maghimo sang bisan ano, indi ako magpaulipon sa bisan ano.
Ayhan may magasiling man nga Ayhan may magasiling man nga “Ang pagkaon ginhimo para sa tiyan kag ang tiyan ginhimo para sa pagkaon.” Matuod ina, Matuod ina, pero magaabot ang adlaw nga ang tiyan kag ang pagkaon dulaon sang Dios. Pero indi matuod nga ginhimo ang lawas sang tawo para sa paghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon, kundi ginhimo ini para sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo; kag ang Ginoo amo ang nagaatipan sini.
Kag sa ulihi ining aton lawas banhawon sang Dios paagi sa iya gahom, pareho sang ginhimo niya sa aton Ginoo.
Indi bala nga kita nga mga tumuluo parte sang lawas ni Cristo? Amo ina nga indi mahimo nga ang aton lawas, nga parte sang lawas ni Cristo, gamiton ta sa pagpakighilawas sa babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas.
Indi bala nga kon ang lalaki nagapakighilawas sa babayi nga pareho sina, sila nga duha mangin isa na lang ka lawas? Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Sila nga duha mangin isa.”
Kag sa pihak nga bahin, kon kita nakipag-isa kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo Jesu-Cristo , isa na kita ka espiritu sa iya.
Gani likawi ninyo ang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon. Ang iban nga mga sala nga ginahimo sang tawo wala sing kaangtanan sa lawas, pero ang tawo nga nagahimo sang imoralidad nagapakasala kontra sa iya kaugalingon nga lawas.
Indi bala nga ang Espiritu Santo nga ginhatag sang Dios nagapuyo sa aton lawas bilang iya templo? Gani ining aton lawas indi aton kundi iya sang Dios kundi iya sang Dios .
Kay mahal gid ang iya pagbakal sa aton. Gani gamita ninyo ang inyo lawas sa paagi nga madayaw ang Dios.
Nagsulat kamo nga basi kon maayo sa lalaki nga indi magpangasawa.
Pero kon sa akon, kon sa akon, tungod kay madamo ang nagahimo sang imoralidad, magpangasawa ukon magpamana na lang kamo para malikawan ninyo ini.
Kag ang bana dapat magtuman sang iya obligasyon sa iya asawa, kag ang asawa dapat man magtuman sang iya obligasyon sa iya bana.
Kay ang lawas sang asawa iya na sang bana, kag ang lawas sang bana iya na man sang asawa.
Gani indi ninyo pagdumilian ang inyo asawa ukon bana kon gusto niya nga himuon ang kinaandan nga ginahimo sang mag-asawa, luwas lang kon nagsugtanay kamo nga duha nga ini nga butang ipaiway lang anay, tungod nga gusto ninyo nga gamiton ang inyo oras sa pagpangamuyo. Pero pagkatapos sang inyo kasugtanan, balikan ninyo ang inyo kinaandan nga ginahimo bilang mag-asawa, kay basi kon sa ulihi indi na ninyo mapunggan ang inyo balatyagon, kag tentaron kamo ni Satanas.
Wala ako nagasugo sa inyo nga magpangasawa ukon magpamana kundi ginatugutan ko kamo sa luyag ninyo.
Gusto ko kuntani nga ang tanan pareho sa akon nga wala sing asawa nga wala sing asawa . Pero wala kita nagapalareho tungod kay nagkalain-lain nga hiyas ang ginhatag sa aton sang Dios.
Kamo nga wala pa sing asawa ukon bana, kag pati ang mga balo nga babayi, mas maayo pa kon magpadayon kamo sa pagpangabuhi nga isahanon pareho sa akon.
Pero kon indi kamo makapugong sang inyo balatyagon, magpangasawa ukon magpamana na lang kamo. Kay maayo pa ina sang sa mag-antos kamo tungod sa inyo balatyagon nga daw indi mapunggan.
Kon parte sa iban, amo ini ang gusto ko isiling (ini sa akon lang, wala sing may ginhambal ang Ginoo parte sini): kon ang tumuluo may asawa nga indi tumuluo pero gusto gihapon nga magpuyo sa iya, indi niya dapat pagbulagan.
Kag kon ang tumuluo may bana nga indi tumuluo pero gusto gihapon nga magpuyo sa iya, indi man niya dapat pagbulagan.
Kay ang indi tumuluo nga bana ginabaton sang Dios tungod sang tumuluo nga asawa, kag ang indi tumuluo nga asawa ginabaton man sang Dios tungod sang tumuluo nga bana. Kay kon indi amo sini, pati ang ila mga bata wala man ginabaton sang Dios. Pero ang matuod, ginabaton sila sang Dios.
Pero kon gusto sang indi tumuluo nga magbulag, tuguti. Hilway ka nga magbulag sa iya, kay gintawag kita sang Dios sa malinong nga pagkabuhi.
Total, bisan punggan mo ang imo asawa ukon bana nga indi magbulag sa imo, indi mo gid man masiguro nga maluwas mo siya.
Ang kada isa dapat magkabuhi suno sa kahimtangan nga ginhatag sang Ginoo sa iya. Dapat magpabilin siya sa iya kahimtangan sang siya gintawag sang Dios nga magtuo nga magtuo . Amo ini ang pagsulundan nga akon ginatudlo sa tanan nga iglesya.
Halimbawa, kon may lalaki nga natuli na sang wala pa siya gintawag sang Dios sang Dios , indi na niya paghimulatan nga ilisan pa niya ang iya kahimtangan. Kag kon may ara man nga wala natuli sang wala pa siya gintawag, indi na kinahanglan nga magpatuli pa siya.
Kay indi importante kon natuli ang tawo ukon wala. Ang importante amo ang pagtuman sang mga sugo sang Dios.
Gani magpadayon ang kada isa suno sa iya kahimtangan sang siya gintawag sang Dios sang Dios .
Kon ikaw isa ka ulipon sang gintawag ka sang Dios sang Dios , indi bali. Pero kon may kahigayunan nga makahilway ka sa pagkaulipon, himusli ina nga kahigayunan.
Kay ang tawo nga ulipon sang gintawag siya nga mangin ara sa Ginoo, karon hilway na sa panulok sang Ginoo. Kag ang tawo nga indi ulipon sang siya gintawag, karon ulipon na ni Cristo.
Mahal ang pagbakal sang Dios sang Dios sa aton, gani indi kita basta-basta nga magpaulipon lang sa mga tawo.
Gani mga kauturan, magpabilin ang kada isa sa inyo sa Dios suno sa iya kahimtangan sang gintawag siya nga magtuo nga magtuo .
Kon parte sa mga wala sing asawa ukon bana, wala ako sing sugo halin sa Ginoo. Pero bilang tawo nga masaligan tungod sa kaluoy sang Dios, ari ang akon opinyon.
Tungod sang mga kabudlayan subong, mas maayo pa kon magpadayon na lang kita sa aton kahimtangan.
Gani kon may asawa ka na, indi siya pagbulagi. Kag kon wala ka pa asawa, indi ka na lang magpangasawa.
Pero kon magpangasawa ka gid man, indi ina sala. Kag kon magpamana ang dalaga indi man ina sala. Nagasiling ako nga indi na lang kamo kuntani magpangita sang inyo asawa ukon bana tungod nga gusto ko nga makalikaw kamo sa mga kabudlayan sang kabuhi sang may asawa ukon bana.
Gusto ko kuntani nga mahilway kamo sa mga palaligban diri sa kalibutan diri sa kalibutan . Ang wala sing asawa wala sing iban nga ginapanumdom kundi ang hilikuton sang Ginoo kag kon paano siya makahatag sing kalipay sa iya.
Pero ang lalaki nga may asawa nagapanumdom pati pati sa mga butang diri sa kalibutan kag kon paano siya makahatag sing kalipay sa iya asawa.
Amo ina nga natunga permi ang iya hunahuna. Kag amo man ang mga babayi. Ang babayi nga wala sing bana wala sing iban nga ginapanumdom kundi ang pag-alagad sa Ginoo, kag gusto niya nga ihalad ang iya bilog nga kabuhi
Ginasugid ko ini para sa inyo kaayuhan. Wala ko kamo ginabawalan nga magpangasawa ukon magpamana, kundi gusto ko lang nga mahapos kag wala sing sablag ang inyo pag-alagad sa Ginoo.
Karon, parte sa mga naganobyohanay parte sa mga naganobyohanay : kon sa hunahuna sang lalaki indi husto ang iya panggawi sa iya nobya, kag indi na siya makapugong sang iya balatyagon, kag sa iya hunahuna dapat nga magpakasal na sila, maayo pa nga magpakasal na lang sila. Indi ina sala.
Pero kon desidido ang isa ka lalaki nga indi na niya pagpangasaw-on ang iya nobya, kag para sa iya indi kinahanglan nga magpangasawa, kay mapunggan niya ang iya kaugalingon, maayo ang iya ginahimo.
Gani maayo ang ginahimo sang nagapangasawa sa iya nobya; pero mas maayo pa gid ang indi magpangasawa.
Ang babayi nahigot sa iya bana samtang buhi pa ang iya bana. Ugaling kon patay na ang iya bana puwede na siya makapamana liwat. Pero kinahanglan tumuluo ang pilion niya.
Kon sa akon lang, mas malipayon siya kon indi na siya magpamana. Ini opinyon ko lang, pero nagapati ako nga ang Espiritu sang Dios nga ari sa akon amo ang nagtudlo sini sa akon.
Karon, ang parte naman sa mga pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios, kon bala makakaon kita sini ukon indi kon bala makakaon kita sini ukon indi : bisan masiling ta nga madamo na ang aton nahibaluan, dumdumon naton nga ang nahibaluan sang tawo kon kaisa amo ang ginahalinan sang pagpabugal. Mas importante nga may paghigugma kita, kay ini makapabakod sa iban.
Ang tawo nga nagahunahuna nga maalam na siya nagapakilala lang nga kulang pa gid ang iya nahibaluan.
Pero ang tawo nga nagahigugma sa Dios amo ang ginakilala sang Dios nga iya.
Gani kon parte sa mga pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios, nakahibalo kita nga ang mga dios-dios indi matuod nga dios, kay may isa gid lang ka Dios.
Bisan tuod nga nagasiling ang iban nga may mga dios sa langit kag sa duta, kag madamo ang ginatawag nga “mga dios” kag “mga ginoo,”
pero sa aton may isa lang ka Dios, ang aton Amay nga naghimo sang tanan nga butang, kag nagakabuhi kita para sa iya. Kag may isa gid lang ka Ginoo, si Jesu-Cristo. Paagi sa iya, nahimo ang tanan nga butang kag paagi man sa iya nagakabuhi kita subong.
Pero may mga tumuluo nga wala nakahibalo sini nga kamatuoran. Kag tungod nga sadto anay nagasimba sila sa mga dios-dios, amo ina nga hasta subong kon magkaon sila sang pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios, sa ila hunahuna daw kaupod na sila nga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios. Gani tungod nga kulang pa ang ila nahibaluan, nagapakasala sila sa ila konsensya.
Kon sa bagay, ang pagkaon wala sing kahilabtanan sa aton relasyon sa Dios. Wala sing may madula sa aton relasyon sa Dios relasyon sa Dios kon indi kita magkaon sini, kag wala man sing may madugang kon magkaon kita.
Pero bisan tuod hilway kamo magkaon sang bisan ano, mag-andam kamo, kay basi kon amo ina ang mangin kabangdanan nga magpakasala ang mga tawo nga maluya ang ila pagtuo ang ila pagtuo .
Halimbawa, may upod ka nga wala pa nakaintiendi, kag ikaw nga nakaintiendi na nakita niya nga nagakaon sa templo sang mga dios-dios, indi bala makaganyat ini sa iya nga magkaon man sang pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios bisan sa iya pagkilala sala ina?
Gani ang imo utod nga maluya ang pagtuo ang pagtuo nga isa man sang ginpanginmatyan ni Cristo mawala tungod sang imo “kaalam.”
Sa sini nga paagi nakasala ka kay Cristo, tungod kay nakasala ka sa imo utod nga maluya ang pagtuo ang pagtuo , sa imo pagganyat sa iya sa paghimo sang butang nga kontra sa iya konsensya.
Gani kon ang akon ginakaon mangin kabangdanan nga magpakasala ang akon utod, indi na lang ako magkaon sing karne hasta san-o, para indi magpakasala ang akon utod tungod sa akon.
Indi bala nga hilway ako? Indi bala nga apostol ako? Indi bala nga nagpakita mismo sa akon si Jesus nga aton Ginoo kag kamo nangin mga tumuluo tungod sa akon?
Bisan ang iban wala nagakilala sa akon nga apostol, apostol gid ako sa inyo tungod nga kamo mismo ang ebidensya, kay paagi sa akon kamo ara na sa Ginoo.
Amo ini ang ginasabat ko sa mga tawo nga nagausisa sa akon.
Bilang apostol, Bilang apostol, wala bala kami sang kinamatarong sa pagpangayo sang amon pagkaon sa amon mga gintudluan sa amon mga gintudluan ?
Kag wala bala kami sang kinamatarong sa pagdala sang asawa nga tumuluo sa amon mga pagbiyahe pareho sang ginahimo sang mga utod sang Ginoo kag ni Pedro
Ano, kami lang bala ni Barnabas ang kinahanglan nga magpangabudlay para sa amon palangabuhian?
May soldado bala nga siya mismo ang nagagasto sang iya pagserbisyo? May tawo bala nga nagatanom nga wala nagapulos sang bunga sang iya tinamnan? Kag may nagasagod bala sang mga sapat nga wala siya sing parte?
Ining akon ginasiling indi lang tawhanon nga opinyon, kundi amo man ini ang ginatudlo sang Kasuguan.
Kay nasulat sa Kasuguan ni Moises, “Indi pagbusali ang baka samtang nagalinas ini.”
Kay kami upod man sa iya gusto hambalon. Amo ina kon ngaa ang mga tawo nagaarado kag nagaani, tungod nga nagapaabot man sila nga may parte sa patubas.
Nagpanggas kami sa inyo sang espiritual nga mga binhi; dako na gid bala nga bagay kon magpaabot kami nga maghatag kamo sang materyal nga mga butang?
Kon ang iban nga mga manunudlo nga mga manunudlo may kinamatarong sa pagpaabot sini halin sa inyo, mas labi na gid kami. Pero bisan may kinamatarong kami sa pagpaabot sang bulig halin sa inyo, wala kami nagpangayo sa inyo. Gin-antos namon ang tanan para indi masablagan ang paglapnag sang Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo.
Indi bala nga nahibaluan ninyo nga ang mga nagaalagad sa templo dira man nagakuha sang ila pagkaon? Kag ang mga nagaalagad sa halaran nagakuha man sang ila parte sa mga butang nga ginahalad sa halaran.
Sa amo man nga paagi, nagsugo ang Ginoo nga ang mga nakabaton sang Maayong Balita dapat nga magbulig sa mga kinahanglanon sang mga manugwali sang Maayong Balita para mabuhi sila.
Pero wala ko paggamita ang akon kinamatarong nga ina. Kag wala man ako nagasulat subong para pabati-batian kamo nga hatagan ninyo ako. Maayo pa nga mapatay ako sang sa himuon ko ina. Siguruhon ko nga wala sing bisan sin-o nga makakuha sang akon ginapabugal nga ini.
Wala ko ginapabugal ang akon pagwali sang Maayong Balita, tungod nga amo ini ang akon obligasyon. Indi mahimo nga indi ko ini pagsundon tungod kay kaluluoy ako kon indi ko pag-iwali ang Maayong Balita.
Kon nagawali ako tungod nga amo ini ang akon ginpili nga obra, ti magapaabot ako sing suhol. Pero ang matuod, ginatuman ko lang ang akon obligasyon nga magwali tungod nga amo ini ang obra nga gintugyan sa akon sang Dios.
Ano karon ang balos nga akon mabaton? Ang ginaisip ko nga balos amo ang kalipay nga wala ako nagapabayad sa akon pagwali sang Maayong Balita, bisan matuod nga puwede ako magpabayad sang akon pagpangabudlay para sa Maayong Balita.
Bisan wala sing may nagaulipon sa akon, nagapaulipon ako sa tanan, para madamo pa gid ang akon madala nga magtuo kay Cristo nga magtuo kay Cristo .
Amo ina nga kon kaupod ko ang mga Judio nagakabuhi ako pareho sang Judio, para madala ko sila nga magtuo kay Cristo. Gani bisan indi ako sakop sa Kasuguan sang mga Judio sang mga Judio , ginasunod ko ini, para madala ko sila sa aton pagtuo.
Kag amo man kon kaupod ko ang mga indi Judio. Wala ko ginasunod ang Kasuguan nga para sa mga Judio, kundi ginasunod ko ang pagkabuhi sang mga indi Judio para magtuo sila kay Ginoong Jesus. Wala ini nagakahulugan nga wala ko ginasunod ang mga sugo sang Dios, kay ang matuod, ginasunod ko ang mga sugo ni Cristo.
Nagapakigbagay ako sa mga tumuluo nga tumuluo nga maluya ang pagtuo ang pagtuo para mapabakod ko sila sa Ginoo. Nagapakigbagay ako sa tanan bisan ano ang ila kahimtangan, para sa bisan ano nga paagi maluwas ko ang iban sa ila.
Ginahimo ko ini tanan tungod nga gusto ko nga magbaton sang mga pagpakamaayo kaupod sang mga nagabaton sang Maayong Balita.
Sa aton pagsunod sa Ginoo pareho kita sa mga manugdalagan. Kag Sa aton pagsunod sa Ginoo pareho kita sa mga manugdalagan. Kag sa palumba, indi bala nga madamo ang nagaintra pero isa lang ang makabaton sang premyo? Gani kay-uha ninyo ang inyo pagdalagan para makabaton kamo sang premyo.
Ang kada manughampang nagapraktis gid sing maayo nga may pagdisiplina sa iya kaugalingon. Ginahimo niya ini para sa premyo nga umalagi lang. Pero kita nagahimulat para sa premyo nga indi gid madula.
Amo ina nga deretso gid ang akon dalagan pakadto sa lalambuton. Kag kon sa mga boksidor pa, wala ako nagasumbag sa hangin.
Gani kon may mga malain nga handom sa akon lawas, ginahimulatan ko gid nga punggan ini kay basi kon sa tapos ko matudluan ang mga tawo, ako pa ang indi makabaton sang balos halin sa Dios.
Mga kauturan, gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo ang natabo sa amon mga katigulangan. Gintuytuyan sila sang Dios paagi sa panganod, kag ginbuligan niya sila sa ila pagtabok sa Mapula nga Mapula nga Dagat.
Paagi sa sadto nga panganod kag dagat, daw pareho lang nga daw pareho lang nga ginbautisohan sila tanan bilang mga sumulunod ni Moises.
Nagkaon sila tanan sang espiritual nga pagkaon.
Kag nag-inom sila tanan sang espiritual nga ilimnon, kay nag-inom sila halin sa espiritual nga bato. Ato nga bato nga nag-upod sa ila amo si Cristo mismo.
Pero bisan ginbuligan sila sang Dios, kalabanan sa ila wala gid naghimo sang husto nga makalipay sa Dios. Amo gani nga ang ila mga bangkay naglalapta didto sa kamingawan.
Ang mga natabo nga ato sa ila nagahatag sang leksyon sa aton para makapangandam kita nga indi maghandom sa paghimo sang mga malain nga mga butang pareho sang ila ginhimo.
Indi kamo magsimba sa mga dios-dios pareho sang ginhimo sang iban sa ila. Kay nasulat sa Kasulatan, “Nagkinaon sila kag nag-ininom, kag nagpagusto pangalipay
Kag indi gid kita magsunod sa ginhimo sang iban sa ila nga naghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon. Amo gani nga ginsilutan sila sang Dios kag ginsilutan sila sang Dios kag 23,000 ang nagkalamatay sa isa lang ka adlaw.
Indi ta pagtestingan ang Ginoo pareho sang ginhimo sang iban sa ila. Amo gani nga ginpakagat niya sila sa mga man-og kag nagkalamatay sila.
Indi kamo magsagi kumod pareho sang ginhimo sang iban sa ila. Amo gani nga ginpadal-an sila sang Dios sang anghel nga manugpatay sa pagpatay sa ila.
Ini tanan nga butang nagkalatabo para mahibaluan ta nga ato nga mga butang indi gusto sang Dios. Kag ginsulat ato nga mga nagkalatabo sa pagpaandam sa aton nga nagakabuhi sa panahon nga madali na lang mag-abot ang katapusan.
Gani kon nagahunahuna kamo nga ang inyo pagtuo mabakod na, mag-andam kamo kay basi kon makasala man kamo.
Wala sing temtasyon nga nagaabot sa inyo nga wala man nagaabot sa iban nga mga tawo. Pero masaligan ang Dios sa iya promisa nga indi niya kamo pagtugutan nga tentaron sing sobra sa inyo masarangan. Kag kon mag-abot ang mga temtasyon sa inyo, magahimo siya sing paagi para madaog ninyo ini.
Gani, mga hinigugma ko, indi gid kamo magsimba sa mga dios-dios.
Nagahambal ako sa inyo bilang mga tawo nga makaintiendi. Gani binagbinaga ninyo ang akon ginahambal sa inyo.
May ginainom kita nga ginapasalamatan ta sa Dios, kag may tinapay man kita nga ginapamihak-pihak kag ginakaon. Indi bala sa sini nagapakig-ambit kita sa dugo kag sa lawas ni Cristo?
Kita tanan, bisan madamo, isa lang ka lawas tungod nga isa lang ka tinapay ang aton ginaambit.
Tan-awa bala ninyo ang mga tawo sa Israel. Ang mga nagakaon sang mga halad nagapakig-ambit sa ginahimo sa halaran.
Ano ang buot ko silingon? Nga ang mga dios-dios kag ang pagkaon nga ginahalad sa ila may pulos?
Indi! Ang buot ko silingon, ang mga ginahalad sang mga tawo nga wala makakilala sa Dios mga halad sa mga demonyo kag indi sa Dios. Gani indi ko gusto nga magpakig-ambit kamo sa mga demonyo.
Indi mahimo nga mag-inom kamo sa tasa sang Ginoo kag sa tasa sang mga demonyo. Kag indi mahimo nga magkaon kamo sa kalan-an sang Ginoo kag sa kalan-an sang mga demonyo.
Ano, gusto ta bala nga magpangimon ang Ginoo? Kay kon mangakig na siya, nahibaluan ta nga indi gid kita makalikaw sa iya silot.
Tugot sa aton ang paghimo sang bisan ano, pero indi tanan makabulig ukon makapabakod sa iban.
Indi ninyo paghunahunaa ang inyo lang kaugalingon nga kaayuhan, kundi hunahunaa man ninyo ang kaayuhan sang iban.
Kauna ninyo ang bisan ano nga ginabaligya sa baligyaan sang karne nga wala na pulupamangkot kon bala ina ginhalad sa mga dios-dios ukon wala kon bala ina ginhalad sa mga dios-dios ukon wala , para indi kamo pagtublagon sang inyo konsensya.
Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang kalibutan kag ang tanan nga ara sa sini iya sang Ginoo.”
Kon may indi tumuluo nga mag-imbitar sa inyo nga magkaon sa ila, kag gusto man ninyo nga magkadto, kauna ninyo ang bisan ano nga ginpreparar para sa inyo nga wala na pulupamangkot kon bala ina ginhalad sa mga dios-dios ukon wala kon bala ina ginhalad sa mga dios-dios ukon wala , para indi kamo pagtublagon sang inyo konsensya.
Pero kon may magsiling sa inyo nga ang ina nga pagkaon ginhalad sa mga dios-dios, indi ninyo pagkauna, tungod lang sa sina nga tawo nga nagsiling sa inyo, para wala sing konsensya nga matublag.
Indi ang inyo kaugalingon nga konsensya ang akon buot silingon kundi ang konsensya sang sina nga tawo. Karon basi magsiling kamo, Karon basi magsiling kamo, “Ngaa husgaran ang akon kahilwayan tungod sa konsensya sang iban?
Kon ginapasalamatan ko sa Dios ang akon ginakaon, ngaa abi pakalainon ako tungod sa pagkaon nga akon ginapasalamatan?”
Ini ang akon sabat sa inyo Ini ang akon sabat sa inyo : bisan ano ang inyo himuon, bisan magkaon ukon mag-inom, himua ninyo ang tanan sa katuyuan nga madayaw ang Dios.
Indi gid kamo maghimo sang bisan ano nga makahatag kasandaran sa mga Judio ukon sa mga indi Judio, ukon sa iglesya sang Dios.
Sunda lang bala ninyo ang akon ginahimo: permi ako nagapangita sang paagi nga mabuligan ko ang tanan nga tawo sa tanan ko nga ginahimo. Wala ako nagapangita sang akon kaugalingon nga kaayuhan kundi ang kaayuhan sang iban para maluwas sila.
Gani sunda ninyo ako, kay ginasunod ko man si Cristo.
Ginadayaw ko kamo, kay permi ninyo ako ginadumdom kag ginatipigan ninyo ang mga tradisyon nga ginpasa ko sa inyo.
Karon gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo nga si Cristo amo ang ulo sang tagsa ka lalaki, kag ang lalaki amo ang ulo sang babayi,
Kon ang lalaki magpangamuyo ukon magsugid sang mensahi sang Dios nga may tabon ang iya ulo, ginapakahuy-an niya ang iya ulo nga amo si Cristo nga amo si Cristo .
Kag kon ang babayi magpangamuyo ukon magsugid sang mensahi sang Dios nga wala sing tabon ang iya ulo, ginapakahuy-an niya ang iya ulo nga amo ang lalaki nga amo ang lalaki , kag daw pareho lang nga nagpakalbo siya.
Kon ang babayi wala nagatabon sang iya ulo, maayo pa nga magpautod na lang siya sang iya buhok. Pero makahuluya sa babayi kon siya magpautod ukon magpakalbo. Gani dapat tabunan niya ang iya ulo.
Ang lalaki indi dapat magtabon sang iya ulo, kay gintuga gintuga siya nga nga kaanggid sang Dios kag siya ang iya dungog. Ang babayi amo ang dungog sang lalaki.
Kay ang lalaki wala paghimua halin sa babayi, kundi ang babayi amo ang ginhimo halin sa lalaki.
Kag wala man paghimua ang lalaki para sa babayi, kundi ang babayi ginhimo para sa lalaki.
Gani amo ina nga kinahanglan magtabon ang babayi sang iya ulo, agod bisan ang mga anghel makahibalo nga nagapasakop siya sa lalaki.
Pero dapat nga dumdumon ta man nga sa aton kabuhi sa Ginoo, kinahanglan sang babayi ang lalaki kag kinahanglan man sang lalaki ang babayi.
Kay ang una nga babayi ginhimo halin sa lalaki, kag karon ang lalaki nagakatawo halin sa babayi. Pero ang tanan nagahalin sa Dios.
Binagbinaga ninyo ini: Nagakabagay bala nga ang babayi magpangamuyo sa Dios nga wala sing tabon ang iya ulo?
Natural sa lalaki nga manubo ang iya buhok, kay makahuluya kon malaba ini.
Pero sa babayi iya, ang malaba nga buhok nagapatahom sa iya. Kay ginhatagan siya sang Dios sing malaba nga buhok bilang inugtabon sa iya ulo.
Pero kon may ara nga gusto magkontra sining amon ginatudlo, ang masiling ko lang, wala kami sang iban nga kinabatasan luwas sini. Kag amo man ini ang ginasunod sang mga iglesya sang Dios sa bisan diin nga lugar sa bisan diin nga lugar .
May isa pa gid ka butang nga gusto ko nga sambiton subong sa inyo, kag sa sini wala ko kamo ginadayaw, tungod kay ang inyo pagtilipon wala nagadala sing kaayuhan, kundi kalainan.
Kay nakabati ako nga kon nagatilipon kamo bilang tumuluo, nagabinahin-bahin kamo, kag medyo nagapati ako nga may kamatuoran ini.
Siguro kinahanglan man nga matabo ina dira sa inyo para mahibaluan kon sin-o gid sa inyo ang matuod nga tumuluo.
Kon nagatilipon kamo para magsaulog sang Panihapon sang Ginoo, indi husto ang inyo ginahimo,
tungod kay wala kamo nagahulatay kon magkaon. Gani ang iban sa inyo busog gid kag busog gid kag hubog samtang ang iban ya gutom kag ginauhaw kag ginauhaw .
Ngaa indi kamo anay magkaon kag mag-inom sa inyo kaugalingon nga balay? Kay sa inyo ginahimo nga ina, ginapakahuy-an ninyo ang mga imol, kag pati ang bilog nga bilog nga iglesya sang Dios ginainsulto ninyo. Ano bala ang akon isiling sa inyo? Dayawon ko bala kamo sa inyo ginahimo nga ina? Indi gid!
Amo ini ang gintudlo sa akon sang Ginoo, kag gintudlo ko man sa inyo: nga sang sadto nga gab-i nga gintraiduran siya, nagkuha siya sang tinapay,
kag tapos niya pasalamat sa Dios sa Dios , ginpamihak-pihak niya ini kag nagsiling, “Amo ini ang akon lawas para sa inyo. Himua ninyo ini sa pagdumdom sa akon.”
Pagkatapos nila kaon sang tinapay, amo man ang iya ginhimo sa ilimnon: ginkuha niya ini, ginpasalamatan, kag ginkuha niya ini, ginpasalamatan, kag nagsiling, “Ini nga ilimnon amo ang bag-o nga kasugtanan nga patigayunon paagi sa akon dugo. Himua ninyo ini sa pagdumdom sa akon.”
Sa kada kaon ninyo sang sina nga tinapay kag pag-inom sang sina nga ilimnon ginasugid ninyo ang kamatayon sang Ginoo hasta sa iya nga pagbalik.
Gani ang bisan sin-o nga magkaon sang sina nga tinapay kag mag-inom sang sina nga ilimnon sang Ginoo sa paagi nga indi takos nagakasala kontra sa lawas kag dugo sang Ginoo.
Kinahanglan mag-usisa anay ang tagsa-tagsa sang iya kaugalingon sa indi pa siya magkaon sang tinapay kag mag-inom sang ilimnon.
Kay kon magkaon siya kag mag-inom nga wala niya ginabinagbinag ang kahulugan sang lawas sang Ginoo sang Ginoo , nagadala lang siya sang silot sa iya kaugalingon.
Amo ina nga madamo sa inyo ang maluya kag masakiton, kag ang iban gani nagkalamatay.
Pero kon usisaon ta anay ang aton kaugalingon, indi kita pagsilutan sang Dios.
Kon kita nga mga tumuluo ginasilutan sang Dios, ginatudluan niya kita para indi kita pagsentensyahan upod sa mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan.
Gani, mga kauturan, kon magtipon kamo sa pagsaulog sang Panihapon sang Ginoo, maghulatay kamo.
Kon may ginagutom sa inyo, magkaon siya anay sa iya balay para indi kamo pagsilutan sang Ginoo tungod sa inyo ginahimo kon nagatilipon na kamo. Kon parte sa iban nga mga butang, aregluhon ko lang ugaling kon makaabot na ako dira.
Mga kauturan, gusto ko nga maintiendihan gid ninyo ang parte sa mga abilidad nga ginahatag sang Espiritu Santo.
Nahibaluan ninyo nga sang wala pa kamo nakakilala sa Dios, ginpatalang kamo para magsimba sa mga dios-dios nga indi makahambal.
Gani gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo nga wala sing tawo nga ginatuytuyan sang Espiritu sang Dios nga makapakamalaot kay Jesus. Kag wala man sang tawo nga makasiling nga si Jesus ang Ginoo kon wala siya ginatuytuyan sang Espiritu Santo.
May nagkalain-lain kita nga mga abilidad, pero isa lang ka Espiritu ang ginahalinan sini.
Nagkalain-lain ang paagi sa pag-alagad, pero isa lang ka Ginoo ang aton ginaalagaran.
Nagkalain-lain ang ginapahimo sang Dios sa aton, pero isa lang ka Dios ang nagagahom sa aton tanan para mahimo ta ini.
Ang tagsa-tagsa ginhatagan sang abilidad nga nagapakita nga ang Espiritu Santo Santo ara sa iya, para makabulig siya sa iya kapareho nga tumuluo.
Ang iban ginhatagan sang Espiritu Santo Santo sang abilidad sa pagsugid parte sa kaalam sang Dios sang Dios , kag ang iban ginhatagan sang Espiritu Santo Santo sang abilidad sa pagpaathag sina.
May ara man nga ginhatagan sing dako gid nga dako gid nga pagtuo, kag may ara man nga ginhatagan sang abilidad sa pagpang-ayo sang mga nagamasakit, kag ini tanan halin sa Espiritu Santo Santo .
Ang iban ginhatagan sang Espiritu Santo Santo sang gahom sa paghimo sing mga milagro; ang iban, abilidad sa pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios; kag ang iban, abilidad sa pag-ihibalo kon bala ang nagagahom sa isa ka tawo amo ang Espiritu Santo Santo ukon indi. May ginhatagan man sang abilidad nga maghambal sa iban nga mga lingguahe nga wala nila natun-i, kag may ara man nga ginhatagan sang abilidad sa pagpaathag kon ano ang kahulugan sang mga ginapanghambal sa sadto nga mga lingguahe.
Pero isa gid lang ka Espiritu ang nagahatag sini tanan, kag ginapanagtag niya ini sa tagsa ka tawo suno sa iya gusto.
Ang lawas may madamo nga parte pero isa lang ka lawas. Pareho man sini sa lawas ni lawas ni Cristo.
Kay kita tanan, Judio man ukon indi, ulipon ukon hilway, ginbautisohan sa isa lang ka Espiritu para mangin isa ka lawas. Kag isa man ka Espiritu ang ginbaton naton tanan.
Ang lawas sang tawo isa lang pero may madamo nga parte.
Kon magsiling ang tiil, “Tungod nga ako indi kamot, indi ako parte sang lawas,” ina wala nagakahulugan nga indi siya parte sang lawas.
Kag kon magsiling ang dulunggan, “Tungod nga ako indi mata, indi ako parte sang lawas,” ina wala man nagakahulugan nga indi siya parte sang lawas.
Kay kon ang bilog nga lawas sang tawo puro lang mata, paano ang iya pagkabati? Kag kon ang bilog nga lawas puro lang dulunggan, paano ang iya pagpanimaho?
Pero wala kita paghimua sang Dios nga pareho sina, kundi suno sa iya gusto, ginhimo niya ang aton lawas nga may nagkalain-lain nga parte.
Kon ang lawas isa lang ka parte, indi na ina matawag nga lawas.
Ang matuod, madamo ang mga parte sang aton lawas, pero isa gid lang ka lawas.
Amo ina nga ang mata indi makasiling sa kamot, “Indi ko ikaw kinahanglan,” kag ang ulo indi man makasiling sa tiil, “Indi ko ikaw kinahanglan.”
Ang matuod, ang mga parte sang lawas nga daw maluya kinahanglan ta gid.
Ang mga parte sang lawas nga daw indi gid importante aton gihapon ginaatipan sing maayo; kag ang mga parte nga daw malaw-ay tulukon aton man gihapon ginapatahom.
Indi na naton kinahanglan nga himuon ini sa mga parte nga matahom na nga daan. Amo ini ang ginhimo sang Dios sa aton lawas, para mahatagan sing dungog ang mga parte nga daw indi gid importante.
Ginhimo sang Dios ang mga parte sang aton lawas para magbinuligay, kag indi para magbinahin-bahin.
Gani kon ang isa ka parte nagaantos, ang tanan nga parte nagaantos man. Kag kon ang isa ka parte ginadayaw, ang tanan nga parte nalipay man.
Ang buot ko silingon amo ini Ang buot ko silingon amo ini : kita nga mga tumuluo amo ang lawas ni Cristo, kag ang tagsa-tagsa sa aton parte sang iya lawas.
Kag sa sini nga lawas, nga amo ang lawas, nga amo ang iglesya, nagbutang ang Dios sang mga masunod mga masunod : una sa tanan, mga apostoles; ikaduha, mga propeta; ikatlo, mga manunudlo; dayon mga manughimo sang mga milagro, mga manug-ayo sang mga masakiton, mga manugbulig, mga administrador, kag mga manughambal sang iban nga lingguahe nga wala natun-i.
Nahibaluan man ninyo nga kita tanan indi mga apostoles. Indi man kita tanan mga propeta sang Dios, ukon mga manunudlo. Indi man ang tanan manughimo sang mga milagro.
Ang gahom sa pag-ayo sang masakit wala man ginhatag sa aton tanan, ukon ang abilidad sa paghambal sa iban nga lingguahe nga wala natun-i. Kag kita tanan wala man paghatagi sang abilidad sa pagpaathag kon ano ang kahulugan sang mga ginpanghambal sa sadto nga mga lingguahe.
Pero tinguhai ninyo nga mabaton halin sa Dios ang mga importante gid nga mga abilidad. Kag karon itudlo ko sa inyo ang labing maayo sa tanan.
Bisan makahambal ako sang nagkalain-lain nga lingguahe sang mga tawo kag sang mga anghel, pero kon wala ako sing gugma sa akon isigkatawo, daw pareho lang ako sa agong nga magahod ukon lingganay nga matagsing.
Kag bisan makasugid ako sang mensahi sang Dios kag makahibalo sang tanan nga tinago nga mga kamatuoran pati ang nagkalain-lain nga kaalam, kag bisan mapasaylo ko ang bukid tungod sang akon dako nga pagtuo, kon wala ako sing gugma wala gid ako sing pulos.
Bisan ipanagtag ko sa mga imol ang tanan ko nga mga pagkabutang, kag bisan ihalad ko ang akon lawas nga sunugon,
Ang tawo nga nagahigugma mapinasensyahon, maayo sa iya isigkatawo, indi mahisaon, indi hambog ukon bugalon,
indi bastos, indi maiyaiyahon, indi palaakig, indi madumot,
wala nalipay sa kalautan kundi sa kamatuoran,
permi mainantuson, permi may pagsalig kag paglaom, kag permi mabinatason.
May katapusan ang mga pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios kag ang mga paghambal sa iban nga mga lingguahe nga wala natun-i, pati ang mga pagpaathag sang mga pagpaathag sang kaalam sang Dios sang Dios , pero ang gugma wala gid sing katapusan.
Kay ang mga butang nga aton nahibaluan pati ang aton pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios indi pa gid kompleto.
Pero kon mag-abot na ang adlaw nga makompleto na ang tanan, madula na inang mga bagay nga indi pa gid kompleto.
Sang bata pa ako, ang akon paghambal, ang akon pag-intiendi, kag ang akon hunahuna pareho sang bata. Pero sang may buot na ako, ginbayaan ko ang pagginawi sang bata.
Sa karon daw nagatulok kita sa espiho nga malubog; pero magaabot ang adlaw nga mangin klaro gid ang tanan. Karon limitado ang aton nahibaluan; pero magaabot ang adlaw nga mahibaluan ta ang tanan, pareho sang pagkahibalo sang Dios sa aton.
Tatlo ka butang ang nagapadayon, kag ang tatlo nga ini amo ang pagsalig, paglaom, kag ang gugma. Pero ang gugma amo gid ang labing importante.
Gani tinguhai gid ninyo nga maghigugma, pero handuma man ninyo nga mahatagan kamo sang mga abilidad nga halin sa Espiritu Santo Santo , labi na gid ang pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios.
Ang tawo nga nagahambal sa iban nga lingguahe nga wala niya natun-i wala nagapakighambal sa mga tawo kundi sa Dios, tungod nga ang mga tawo indi makaintiendi sa iya. Ang Espiritu Santo Santo amo ang nagapahambal sa iya, kag ginahambal niya ang mga butang nga wala nahibalui sang iban.
Pero ang nagasugid sang mensahi sang Dios nagahambal sa mga tawo para makabulig, makapabakod, kag makalipay sa ila.
Ang tawo nga nagahambal sa iban nga lingguahe nga wala niya natun-i nagapabakod sang iya kaugalingon, pero ang nagasugid sang mensahi sang Dios nagapabakod sa iglesya.
Gusto ko kuntani nga kamo tanan makahambal sa iban nga lingguahe nga wala natun-i, pero mas maayo gid kon makasugid kamo sang mensahi sang Dios. Tungod nga ang tawo nga nagasugid sang mensahi sang Dios mas importante pa sang sa tawo nga nagahambal sa iban nga lingguahe, luwas lang kon ipaathag man niya ang kahulugan sang iya ginahambal para mapabakod ang iglesya.
Ano ayhan ang inyo makuha, mga kauturan, kon magkadto ako dira sa inyo kag maghambal sa iban nga lingguahe nga indi ninyo maintiendihan? Siyempre wala gid! Kinahanglan may inughambal ako sa inyo nga halin sa Dios, ukon may inuglaygay ako nga kamatuoran, ukon may inugsugid ako nga mensahi sang Dios, ukon may inugtudlo ako.
Bisan sa mga instrumento nga wala sing kabuhi pareho sa plawta ukon gitara, kon indi maathag ang pagpatunog sang mga nota paano ang pagkahibalo sang nagapamati kon ano nga kanta ang ginatukar?
Kag bisan sa manugtrumpeta sang mga soldado, kon indi maathag ang pagpatunog wala sing magpreparar para sa inaway.
Amo man ini sa inyo, paano ang pagkaintiendi sang nagapamati sang imo ginahambal kon nagahambal ka sa iban nga lingguahe nga indi maintiendihan? Pareho lang nga nagahambal ka sa hangin.
Madamo nga lingguahe diri sa kalibutan kag ang tagsa-tagsa may kahulugan.
Pero kon indi ko maintiendihan ang ginahambal sang isa ka tawo kag indi niya man maintiendihan ang akon ginahambal, wala kami sang may makuha sa isa kag isa.
Gani tungod nga nagahandom kamo nga makabaton sang mga abilidad nga halin sa Espiritu Santo Santo , tinguhai ninyo nga mabaton ang mga abilidad nga makapabakod sa iglesya.
Gani ang tawo nga nagahambal sa iban nga lingguahe nga wala niya natun-i dapat magpangamuyo nga hatagan man siya sang abilidad nga makapaathag kon ano ang kahulugan sang iya ginahambal.
Kay kon nagapangamuyo ako sa iban nga lingguahe nga wala ko natun-i, bisan matuod nga nagapangamuyo ang akon espiritu, ang akon hunahuna indi makaintiendi sini.
Gani ano ang akon dapat himuon? Magapangamuyo ukon magakanta ako sa akon akon espiritu bisan indi ko ini maintiendihan bisan indi ko ini maintiendihan , pero magapangamuyo ukon magakanta man ako nga maintiendihan sang akon hunahuna.
Kon magpasalamat ka sa Dios sa imo espiritu lang, kag indi maintiendihan, kag indi maintiendihan, paano ang pagsiling sang iban “Amen” kon wala gani sila makaintiendi kon ano ang imo ginahambal?
Bisan matahom ang imo pagpasalamat sa Dios, pero kon ang iban indi makaintiendi, indi ka makabulig sa ila.
Nagapasalamat ako sa Dios nga wala sing may makalabaw sa akon kon parte sa paghambal sa mga lingguahe nga wala natun-i.
Pero sa mga pagtililipon sang mga tumuluo,
Mga kauturan, kon parte sa sining mga butang, kon parte sa sining mga butang, indi ko gusto nga maghunahuna kamo pareho sang bata. Kon parte sa malain, magmangin pareho kamo sa bata nga wala sing buot parte sa malain nga wala sing buot parte sa malain . Pero kon sa paggamit sang inyo hunahuna, magmangin tigulang kamo.
pero indi gid sila magpamati sa akon.”
Gani ang paghambal sa iban nga lingguahe nga wala natun-i indi tanda para sa mga tumuluo kundi para sa mga indi tumuluo. Pero ang pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios tanda para sa mga tumuluo, kag indi para sa mga indi tumuluo.
Gani, kon magtipon kamo nga mga tumuluo
Pero kon tanan kamo magsugid sang mensahi sang Dios kag may magsulod nga indi tumuluo nga wala nakahibalo kon ano ang inyo ginahimo, makilala niya nga siya gali makasasala kag mahibaluan niya ang matuod niya nga kahimtangan.
Magaguwa pati ang mga sekreto nga iya ginahunahuna. Dayon magaluhod siya nga nagahinulsol nga nagahinulsol kag nagasimba sa Dios. Kag makasiling siya nga ang Dios ara matuod sa inyo.
Gani, mga kauturan, amo ini ang dapat ninyo himuon amo ini ang dapat ninyo himuon kon magtipon kamo: ang iban magkanta, ang iban magtudlo, ang iban magsugid sang ginpahayag sang Dios sa iya, ang iban maghambal sa lingguahe nga wala niya natun-i, kag ang iban magpaathag kon ano ang kahulugan sina. Kag ang tanan nga ginahimo ninyo sa inyo pagtipon, himua ninyo para sa pagpabakod sa iglesya.
Kon may ara nga maghambal sa lingguahe nga wala niya natun-i, dapat duha lang ukon tatlo ang maghambal, pero indi dapat magdulungan, kag kinahanglan may ara nga magpaathag kon ano ang kahulugan sang ginpanghambal.
Pero kon wala gid sing may makapaathag, dapat maghipos sila sa iglesya kag maghambal na lang sa ila kaugalingon kag sa Dios.
Kon may ara sa inyo nga may abilidad sa pagsugid sang mensahi sang Dios, tuguti ninyo nga maghambal ang duha ukon tatlo. Kag ang iban magpamati kag magbinagbinag kon bala husto ukon indi ang ila ginahambal.
Karon, kon may nagapungko didto nga nagapamati kag ginahatagan sang Dios sang inughambal, dapat maghipos ang nagahambal para makahambal man siya.
Sa sini nga paagi, tanan kamo nga mga manugsugid sang mensahi sang Dios makabulos-bulos hambal, para ang tanan makatuon kag mapabakod ang pagtuo.
Ang manugsugid sang mensahi sang Dios sarang makapugong
Pareho sa ginahimo sang tanan nga iglesya sang katawhan sang Dios,
dapat maghipos ang mga babayi sa mga iglesya tungod nga wala sila ginatuguti nga maghambal. Dapat magpasakop sila sa mga lalaki pareho sang ginasiling sang Kasulatan.
Kag kon ang babayi may pamangkot, maghulat siya nga makapuli sila, kag didto sa ila balay makapamangkot siya sa iya bana, tungod nga makahuluya nga maghambal ang babayi sa pagtilipon sang mga tumuluo.
Ano, nagahunahuna bala kamo nga ang Maayong Balita naghalin sa inyo? Ukon kamo lang ang nakabaton sini?
Kon may ara sa inyo nga nagahunahuna nga siya manugsugid sang mensahi sang Dios ukon ginatuytuyan siya sang Espiritu Santo Santo , dapat kilalahon niya nga ang akon mga ginasulat sa inyo sugo mismo sang Ginoo.
Kag kon may ara nga indi magsapak sa sining akon ginahambal, indi kamo magsapak sa iya.
Gani mga kauturan, maghandom gid kamo nga makasugid sang mensahi sang Dios, kag indi ninyo pagpunggi ang paghambal sa mga lingguahe nga wala natun-i.
Pero himua ninyo ang tanan sa husto kag maayo nga paagi.
Mga kauturan, gusto ko ipadumdom sa inyo ang Maayong Balita nga akon ginwali sa inyo. Ini ginbaton ninyo kag hasta subong amo man ang inyo ginatindugan.
Paagi sa sining Maayong Balita maluwas kamo kon ginatipigan ninyo sing maayo ang akon ginwali sa inyo kag indi nga pasapayan lang ang inyo pagtuo.
Gintudlo ko sa inyo ang labing importante nga mga butang nga gintudlo sa akon: nga si Cristo napatay para maluwas kita sa silot tungod sang aton mga sala. Kag ini suno sa Kasulatan.
Ginlubong siya kag nabanhaw sa ikatlo nga adlaw, suno man sa Kasulatan.
Nagpakita siya una kay Pedro
Pagkatapos nagpakita man siya sa mga kauturan nga nagtipon nga sobra 500. Kag kalabanan sa ila buhi pa subong, pero ang iban patay na.
Nagpakita man siya kay Santiago kag dayon sa tanan nga apostoles.
Sang ulihi nagpakita man siya sa akon. Ang akon halimbawa pareho sang lapsag nga natawo sa indi pa oras tungod nga hinali lang ang akon pagkilala sa iya tungod nga hinali lang ang akon pagkilala sa iya .
Ako ang labing kubos sa mga apostoles kag indi gani takos nga tawgon nga apostol, tungod nga ginhingabot ko ang iglesya sang Dios.
Pero sa kaluoy sang Dios sa akon, karon apostol na ako. Kag wala sing may makasiling nga wala sing pulos ang kaluoy sang Dios sa akon, tungod nga ang matuod, mas madamo ang akon nahimo kon ikomparar sa nahimo sang akon kapareho nga mga apostoles. Pero ina indi sa akon kaugalingon, kundi tungod sa kaluoy kag bulig sang Dios.
Pero wala sing deperensya kon ako ukon sila ang nagatudlo sa inyo, sa inyo, ang importante nga pareho ang amon ginawali kag pareho man ang inyo ginatuohan.
Kon ginawali namon sa inyo nga nabanhaw si Cristo, ngaa ang iban dira sa inyo nagasiling nga wala sing pagkabanhaw?
Kon matuod nga wala sing pagkabanhaw, nagakahulugan nga si Cristo wala man nabanhaw.
Kag kon wala nabanhaw si Cristo, wala sing pulos ang amon pagwali, kag wala man sing pulos ang inyo pagtuo.
Indi lang ina, kundi magaguwa nga nagabutig kami parte sa Dios, kay nagasugid kami nga ginbanhaw niya si Cristo.
Pero wala siya nabanhaw kon wala sing pagkabanhaw ang mga patay.
Kag kon si Cristo wala nabanhaw, ang inyo pagtuo wala sing pulos kag wala pa kamo napatawad sa inyo mga sala.
Kag nagakahulugan man nga ang mga tumuluo kay Cristo nga nagkalamatay na wala man naluwas.
Kon ang aton paglaom bilang Kristohanon para lang sa aton kabuhi diri sa kalibutan, kita gid ang makaluluoy sa tanan nga tawo.
Pero ang matuod, nabanhaw si Cristo halin sa kamatayon kag amo ini ang nagapamatuod nga banhawon ang mga patay.
Tungod sa isa ka tawo nga si Adan nga si Adan , nag-abot ang kamatayon sa tanan nga tawo. Kag tungod man sa isa ka tawo nga si Cristo nga si Cristo , mabanhaw ang mga patay.
Kay kon paano nga kita tanan mapatay tungod sa aton relasyon kay Adan, tungod man sa aton relasyon kay Cristo kita tanan mabanhaw.
Ang pagkabanhaw pasunod. Ang una gid nga nabanhaw amo si Cristo. Pagkatapos, pagbalik niya diri sa kalibutan, mabanhaw man ang iya katawhan.
Kag dayon magaabot ang katapusan. Dulaon niya ang tanan nga ginharian, pagdumalahan, kag paggahom, kag ihatag niya dayon ang paghari sa Dios nga Amay.
Kay dapat maghari si Cristo hasta mapasakop niya ang tanan nga nagakontra sa iya.
Ang katapusan gid nga kaaway nga dulaon amo ang kamatayon.
Nagasiling ang Kasulatan nga Nagasiling ang Kasulatan nga ginpasakop sang Dios kay Cristo ang tanan nga butang.
Kundi kon ang tanan ipasakop na kay Cristo, si Cristo nga Anak sang Dios sang Dios magapasakop man sa Dios nga amo ang nagpasakop sang tanan sa iya, para ang Dios amo na ang magagahom sa tanan.
May mga tawo nga nagapabautiso para sa mga napatay. Ti ano ang pulos sang ila ginahimo kon indi man lang pagbanhawon ang mga patay?
Kag ano ang amon makuha sa mga peligro nga amon ginaagyan?
Kon paano matuod nga ginapabugal ko kamo sa aton pagpakig-isa kay Cristo Jesus nga aton Ginoo, matuod man nga ginaatubang ko kada adlaw ang peligro sang kamatayon.
kay basi kon mapatay na kita buwas.”
Indi kamo magpadaya sa sina nga hulubaton. Sa baylo, patihi ninyo ang hulubaton nga nagasiling, Sa baylo, patihi ninyo ang hulubaton nga nagasiling, “Kon mag-upod-upod kamo sa mga tawo nga nagahimo sang malain, ina magapalain sa inyo maayo nga batasan.”
Maghunahuna na kamo sing husto kag bayai na ninyo ang pagpakasala. Ginahambal ko ini sa inyo para mahuya kamo, kay ang iban sa inyo sala ang pagkilala sa Dios.
Kon may ara nga magpamangkot kon paano ang pagkabanhaw sang mga patay kag kon ano nga klase sang lawas ang ila maangkon,
ari ang akon sabat sa sina nga ari ang akon sabat sa sina nga tawo nga wala gid sing may nahibaluan: kon magtanom kita sang isa ka liso sang binhi sa duta, ina nga binhi madunot anay bag-o magtubo.
Kag bisan ano nga binhi ang imo itanom, kon nagatubo na gani, lain na ang hitsura sang sa gintanom ini.
Ang hitsura sini suno man sa pagbuot sang Dios. Kag kada binhi may iya nga hitsura kon magtubo.
Amo man ang lawas sang tanan nga nagakabuhi, kay ang mga lawas wala man nagapalareho. Lain ang lawas sang tawo kag lain man ang lawas sang mga sapat, lain ang lawas sang mga pispis, kag lain pa gid ang lawas sang mga isda.
Nagkalain-lain ang ginhimo sang Dios diri sa duta kag didto sa langit, kag ang tanan nga iya ginhimo matahom. Pero lain ang katahom sang kada isa. Ang katahom sang mga butang nga didto sa langit lain sa katahom sang mga butang diri sa duta.
Lain ang katahom sang adlaw, kag lain man ang katahom sang bulan. Ang mga bituon may iya man nga katahom. Kag bisan pa gani ang mga bituon, nagkalain-lain ang ila katahom.
Amo man kon banhawon na ang mga patay. Ang ginalubong nga lawas madunot, pero kon mabanhaw na, indi na gid ini madunot hasta san-o.
Ang ginalubong nga lawas malaw-ay tulukon kag maluya, pero kon banhawon na, ini mangin matahom kag mabaskog.
Ang ginalubong nga lawas dutan-on nga lawas, pero kon banhawon na, ini mangin espiritual nga lawas. Tungod nga kon may dutan-on nga lawas may espiritual man nga lawas.
Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang una nga tawo nga si Adan ginhatagan sang kabuhi.”
Indi ang espiritual nga lawas ang una kundi ang dutan-on nga lawas, kag dayon ang espiritual nga lawas.
Ang una nga tawo dutan-on. Ginhimo siya halin sa duta. Pero ang ikaduha nga tawo halin sa langit.
Ang dutan-on nga lawas pareho gid sa lawas sang tawo nga ginhimo halin sa duta, pero ang lawas nga langitnon pareho gid sa lawas sang naghalin sa langit.
Gani kon paano nga ang aton lawas nangin kaanggid sang kay Adan nga halin sa duta, magaabot gid ang adlaw nga ang aton lawas mangin kaanggid man sang kay Cristo nga halin sa langit.
Mga kauturan, ang buot ko silingon amo ini: ining aton lawas nga dutan-on indi mahimo nga may parte sa paghari sang Dios. Kag ining lawas nga madunot indi makapanubli sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Pamati kamo kay sugiran ko kamo sang sining tinago nga kamatuoran: indi kita tanan mapatay, pero kita tanan, bag-uhon sang Dios ang aton lawas.
Ini hinali lang nga matabo, pareho sa isa ka pamisok. Kay sa pagtunog sang ulihi gid nga trumpeta, banhawon gilayon ang mga patay kag hatagan sang lawas nga indi na madunot. Kag kita nga buhi pa, bag-uhon man ang aton mga lawas.
Tungod nga ang ini nga lawas nga madunot kag mapatay kinahanglan nga bayluhan sang lawas nga indi na madunot kag indi na mapatay.
“Gindula na sang Dios ang kamatayon!”
Diin na ang imo gahom?”
Ang kamatayon may gahom lang sa aton tungod sa sala, kag may gahom ang sala tungod nga may Kasuguan.
Pero salamat sa Dios tungod nga paagi sa ginhimo sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo ginhatagan niya kita sang kadalag-an sa sini nga mga butang.
Gani, mga hinigugma ko nga mga kauturan, magpakabakod kamo kag indi gid malingkang sa inyo pagtuo. Magmapisan kamo sa ginapahimo sa inyo sang Ginoo, kay nahibaluan ninyo nga may pulos gid ang inyo mga pagpangabudlay para sa Ginoo.
Kon parte sa inyo inugbulig sa mga katawhan sang Dios didto sa Judea didto sa Judea , himuon man ninyo ang akon ginpahimo sa mga iglesya sa Galacia.
Kada Domingo, ang kada isa sa inyo magpain sang kantidad suno sa inyo kinitaan. Dayon tipunon ninyo ini para sa pag-abot ko dira preparado na ang inyo inughatag.
Pag-abot ko dira ipadala ko sa Jerusalem ang mga tawo nga inyo nakita nga masaligan nga magdala sang inyo mga inugbulig kag ang akon sulat nga magapakilala sa ila.
Pero kon kinahanglan gid nga magkadto man ako didto sa Jerusalem, magaupod na lang sila sa akon.
Maderetso ako dira sa Corinto paghalin ko sa Macedonia, tungod nga maagi ako didto.
Mahimo nga magadugay ako dira sa inyo. Basi kon dira pa ako magpaligad sang tigtulugnaw, para mabuligan ninyo ako sa akon mga kinahanglanon sa akon pagbiyahe kon diin man ako magakadto.
Indi ko gusto nga mag-agi lang ako sa inyo sing madali, kundi nagalaom ako nga makatiner ako sing madugay sa inyo, kon itugot sang Ginoo.
Pero karon matiner ako anay diri sa Efeso hasta sa adlaw sang Pentecostes,
tungod nga madamo diri ang gusto magpamati sang Maayong Balita, kag nagapati ako nga madamo ang magatuo diri bisan madamo ang nagakontra.
Kon mag-abot dira si Timoteo, abiabihon ninyo siya para indi siya magkatahap, tungod nga pareho man siya sa akon nga nagapangabudlay sa Ginoo.
Tahura ninyo siya. Kag kon maghalin na siya dira, buligi man ninyo siya sa iya mga kinahanglanon para makabalik siya diri sa akon. Ginapaabot ko siya upod sang iban pa nga mga kauturan.
Kon parte sa aton utod nga si Apolos, ginpangabay ko gid siya nga magbisita dira sa inyo upod sang iban nga kauturan. Pero indi pa siya kuno makakadto dira sa sini nga mga tinion. Makadto lang siya dira ugaling kon may kahigayunan siya.
Magbantay kamo permi kag magpakabakod sa inyo pagtuo. Magpakaisog kag magpakabakod kamo.
Kag bisan ano ang inyo ginahimo, himua ninyo ini nga may paghigugma.
Mga kauturan, nahibaluan ninyo nga ang una gid nga mga Kristohanon dira sa Acaya wala sing iban kundi si Stefanas kag ang iya pamilya. Ginhalad nila ang ila kaugalingon sa pag-alagad sa mga katawhan sang Dios. Amo ina nga nagapangabay ako sa inyo
nga magpasakop kamo sa ila kag pati man sa tanan nga pareho sa ila nga nagapangabudlay para sa Ginoo para sa Ginoo .
Nalipay gid ako sang pag-abot nila ni Stefanas, Fortunatus, kag Acaicus. Kay bisan wala kamo diri, ari man sila, gani nahimo nila sa akon ang indi ninyo mahimo.
Nagahatag sila sang kalipay sa akon kag pati man sa inyo. Ang mga tawo nga pareho sa ila dapat nga pasalamatan sa ila mga ginahimo.
Ang mga iglesya diri sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia nagapangamusta sa inyo. Si Aquila kag si Priscila kag ang mga tumuluo nga nagatipon
Karon, ako mismo si Pablo ang nagasulat sini nga pagpangamusta:
Ginoo, balik na!
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon kamo ni Ginoong Jesus.
Ginahigugma ko kamo tanan sa aton pagpakig-isa kay Cristo Jesus.
Ako Ako si Pablo nga nangin apostol ni Cristo Jesus suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios. Ako Ako kag si Timoteo nga aton utod nagapangamusta nagapangamusta sa iglesya sang Dios dira sa Corinto, kag sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios dira sa bilog nga probinsya sang probinsya sang Acaya.
Dalayawon ang Dios kag Amay sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Maluluy-on siya nga Amay, kag Dios nga permi nagapabakod kag nagalipay sa aton sa aton .
Ginapabakod niya kita kag ginalipay sa tanan ta nga kabudlayan, agod paagi sa sini nga bulig nga aton nabaton halin sa iya, mapabakod ta man kag mapalipay ang iban sa ila mga kabudlayan.
Kay bisan madamo ang aton ginaambit nga mga pag-antos ni Cristo, madamo man nga mga pagpabakod kag paglipay ang aton ginabaton paagi sa iya.
Kon nagaantos kami, ini para sa pagpabakod kag paglipay sa inyo kag para sa inyo kaluwasan. Kag kon ginapabakod kag ginalipay kami, ini para man sa pagpabakod kag paglipay sa inyo para mabatas ninyo ang mga pag-antos nga pareho sang amon ginaantos.
Gani dako ang amon paglaom sa inyo, tungod nga nahibaluan namon nga kon paano kamo nagaantos pareho sa amon, ginapabakod kag ginalipay man kamo sang Dios pareho sa amon.
Mga kauturan, gusto namon nga mahibaluan ninyo ang amon naagyan nga kalisod sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia. Kay sa sadto nga tiyempo daw indi na gid kami makaantos, kag ang hunahuna namon mapatay na gid kami.
Abi gani namon amo na ato ang amon katapusan. Pero natabo gali ato para makatuon kami nga indi magsalig sa amon kaugalingon, kundi sa Dios nga amo ang nagabanhaw sang mga patay.
Ginluwas niya kami sa kamatayon, kag pagaluwason pa gid niya kami liwat. Siya lang gid ang amon ginasaligan nga magapadayon sa pagluwas sa amon
samtang ginabuligan ninyo kami paagi sa inyo mga pagpangamuyo. Kag tungod sa mga bulig nga amon mabaton sa Dios bilang sabat sa madamo nga nagapangamuyo, madamo man ang magapasalamat sa iya.
Amo ini ang butang nga amon ginapabugal: nagkabuhi kami nga matarong kag wala gid sang kasawayan sa tanan nga tawo, kag labi na gid sa inyo. Nahimo namon ini tungod sa bulig sang Dios kag indi sa amon kaugalingon nga ikasarang. Nagapamatuod ang amon konsensya nga matuod gid ining amon ginapabugal.
Tungod sa sining akon pagsalig, nagplano anay ako nga magbisita una sa inyo para doble ang inyo kahigayunan nga makabulig.
Nagplano ako nga mahapit anay dira sa inyo kon magkadto na ako sa Macedonia, kag sa akon pagbalik halin sa Macedonia maagi ako liwat dira para mabuligan naman ninyo ako sa akon pagkadto sa Judea.
Amo kuntani ato ang akon plano. Pero tungod kay wala ini madayon, Pero tungod kay wala ini madayon, nagakahulugan bala ini nga indi masaligan ang akon ginahambal? Basi magsiling kamo nga pareho man ako sa iban nga mga tawo diri sa kalibutan nga ang mga butang nga ila ginaplano kag ginaintiendi ang para gid lang sa ila kaayuhan. Nagasiling sila “Huo,” pero ato gali “Indi.”
Pero ang matuod amo ini Pero ang matuod amo ini : subong nga ang Dios masaligan, masaligan man ninyo ang amon ginasugid sa inyo.
Kami ni Silas kag ni Timoteo nagwali sa inyo parte sa Anak sang Dios nga si Jesu-Cristo. Kag nahibaluan ninyo nga si Cristo masaligan sa iya ginhambal. Indi mahimo nga indi niya paghimuon ang iya mga ginpromisa.
Paagi sa iya, ang tanan nga ginpromisa sang Dios natuman. Gani makasiling kita nga masaligan gid ang Dios,
Ang Dios amo ang nagapabakod sang aton relasyon kay Cristo. Ginpili niya kita nga mag-alagad sa iya.
Ginmarkahan niya kita nga iya na paagi sa pagpapuyo niya sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa aton tagipusuon, nga amo man ang kalig-unan nga pagabatunon ta ang iya mga ginpromisa sa aton.
Nakahibalo ang Dios nga nagasugid ako sang matuod kon ngaa wala ako nakadayon sa pagkadto dira sa inyo sa Corinto. Ang rason amo nga indi ko gusto nga maglain ang inyo buot sa akon.
Wala kami nagadikta sa inyo parte sa inyo pagtuo, kay mabakod na man kamo. Gusto lang namon kuntani nga buligan kamo para mangin malipayon kamo.
Gani naghunahuna ako nga indi na lang ako magkadto dira sa inyo kon masakit ko man lang liwat ang inyo balatyagon.
Kay kon masakit ko ang inyo balatyagon, sin-o na lang ang magahatag sang kalipay sa akon? Wala na!
Amo ina ang kabangdanan kon ngaa nagsulat ako anay sa inyo, para kon magkadto ako dira, indi ako mapasubuan sang mga tawo nga amo kuntani ang dapat maghatag sang kalipay sa akon. Kag nagapati ako nga kon malipay ako, kamo malipay man.
Pagsulat ko sadto anay sa inyo, natublag kag nasubuan gid ako kag naghibi pa gani. Indi nakon tuyo nga magsakit sang inyo balatyagon, kundi gusto ko lang nga mahibaluan ninyo nga palangga ko gid kamo.
Karon, kon parte sa tawo dira nga nakasala, indi lang ako ang iya ginhatagan sang kasubo kundi may ara man siya nga ginhatag nga kasubo sa inyo tanan. Nagasiling ako nga “may ara” kay indi ko gusto pasubrahan.
Pero bastante na ang silot nga inyo ginhatag sa iya.
Gani patawara na ninyo siya kag palig-una dayon, kay basi kon maapektuhan na gid siya sa sobra nga kasubo.
Kag nagapangabay man ako sa inyo nga ipakita ninyo sa iya nga ginapalangga pa ninyo siya.
Amo gani ini ang kabangdanan nga nagsulat ako sa inyo, kay gusto ko mahibaluan kon bala masaligan kamo sa pagtuman sang tanan nga akon ginasiling sa inyo.
Kon ginapatawad ninyo ang tawo nga nakasala, ginapatawad ko man siya. Kay kon may nakahimo sing sala sa akon ginapatawad ko na siya sa atubangan ni Cristo para sa inyo kaayuhan.
Dapat ta himuon ini para indi kita madaog ni Satanas, kay nahibaluan ta kon ano ang iya mga padihot.
Pag-abot ko didto sa Troas para magwali sang Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo, nakita ko nga ginpreparar na sang Ginoo ang ila mga tagipusuon sa pagpamati sa akon.
Pero indi ako mapahamtang kay wala didto si Tito nga akon utod kay Cristo kay Cristo . Gani naglisensya ako sa mga tumuluo didto kag nagkadto sa Macedonia.
Salamat sa Dios kay permi siya nagauna sa aton sa parada sang pagdaog. Ginahimo niya ini tungod ara na kita kay Cristo. Ginagamit niya kami sa pagpakilala sa iya sa mga tawo bisan sa diin nga lugar, kag ining amon ginapahibalo pareho sang pahamot.
Kay pareho kami sang mahamot nga halad nga halad ni Cristo sa Dios nga mapanimahuan sang mga tawo nga nagakalaluwas, kag pati sang mga nagakalawala.
Sa mga tawo nga nagakalawala, pareho kami sang baho nga halin sa patay nga nagadala sang kamatayon; pero sa mga tawo nga nagakalaluwas, pareho kami sang pahamot nga halin sa buhi nga nagadala sang kabuhi. Ti, sin-o ang makasarang sang sini nga obra?
Pero ginpadala kami sang Dios. Kag tungod nga siya nagatulok sa amon, kag kami ara kay Cristo, sinsero kami kon maghambal sang mensahi sang Dios. Indi kami pareho sang iban nga naganegosyo sang mensahi sang Dios para makuwartahan nila ang mga tawo.
Basi kon nagahunahuna kamo nga ginadayaw namon liwat ang amon kaugalingon. Indi kami pareho sang iban dira nga nagakinahanglan pa sang mga rekomendasyon para batunon ninyo, kag pagkatapos mangayo naman sang rekomendasyon sa inyo para batunon man sila sa iban nga lugar.
Indi namon kinahanglan ang mga rekomendasyon, kay Indi namon kinahanglan ang mga rekomendasyon, kay kamo mismo amo ang amon rekomendasyon nga nasulat sa amon tagipusuon, tungod kay ang inyo pagkabuhi pareho sa sulat nga makita kag mabasa sang tanan.
Maathag nga ang inyo halimbawa pareho sang sulat ni Cristo nga ginsulat paagi sa amon. Ang gin-gamit sa pagsulat indi tinta kundi ang Espiritu sang Dios nga buhi, kag wala man ginsulat sa mga bato nga sululatan kundi sa inyo tagipusuon mismo.
Makahambal kami sini tungod sa ginahimo ni Cristo paagi sa amon kag tungod sa amon pagsalig sa Dios.
Kay kon sa amon gid lang indi kami makasarang sa sini nga buluhaton, pero ginabuligan kami sang Dios.
Siya ang naghatag sa amon sang ikasarang para mapaathag namon sa mga tawo ang bag-o nga kasugtanan para kita nga mga tawo makapalapit sa iya. Ini nga kasugtanan para kita nga mga tawo makapalapit sa iya. Ini nga kasugtanan indi paagi sa ginsulat nga Kasuguan kundi paagi sa Espiritu Santo Santo . Kay ang ginadala sang Kasuguan silot nga kamatayon, pero ang Espiritu Santo Santo nagahatag sang kabuhi.
Paghatag sang Dios kay Moises sang Kasuguan nga iya ginsulat sa mga bato, ang mga Israelinhon indi na makatulok sa guya ni Moises kay nasilawan gid sila. (Pero atong kasanag sa iya guya amat-amat lang nga nadula.) Karon kon nagpakita ang Dios sang iya gahom sa Kasuguan nga nagadala sang kamatayon,
mas sobra pa sa sini ang iya ipakita nga gahom kon ang Espiritu Santo Santo na ang magpanghikot.
Kay kon ginpakita sang Dios ang iya gahom sang paghatag niya sang Kasuguan nga nagadala sang silot, indi bala nga mas sobra pa gid ang iya ipakita nga gahom kon pakamatarungon na niya ang tawo?
Ang matuod, ang gahom sang Kasuguan sadto anay wala-wala gid kon ikomparar sa gahom sining bag-o nga paagi.
Kay kon may gahom nga ginpakita ang Dios sa sadto nga Kasuguan nga umalagi lang, mas sobra pa ang gahom nga iya ginapakita sa sini nga bag-o nga paagi nga wala na sing katapusan.
Kag tungod nga amo ini ang amon ginalauman, wala kami nagakahadlok sa pagsugid sang pulong sang Dios.
Indi kami pareho kay Moises nga nagtabon sang iya guya para indi makita sang kapareho niya nga mga Israelinhon nga amat-amat nadula ang kasanag sa iya guya.
Sa matuod lang, wala nakaintiendi ang mga Israelinhon kon ano ang kahulugan sadto kay may nagatabon sa ila mga hunahuna. Kag bisan gani subong may nagatabon pa gid sa ila mga hunahuna samtang ginabasa nila ang daan nga kasugtanan. Kay wala sila naathagi nga kon kita ara kay Cristo, ang ato nga paagi nadula na.
Huo, hasta gani subong kon magbasa sila sang mga ginsulat ni Moises indi sila makaintiendi, kay may nagatabon sa ila mga hunahuna.
Pero inang nagatabon makuha kon magdangop ang tawo sa Ginoo.
Karon, ang ginatawag diri nga Ginoo amo ang Espiritu Santo Santo , kag kon ang Espiritu sang Ginoo amo ang ara sa tawo, hilway siya.
Kag tungod nga wala sing nagatabon sa aton hunahuna, nakita ta ang gahom sang aton Ginoo. Kag ina nga gahom nga halin sa Ginoo, nga amo ang Espiritu Santo Santo , amo ang nagapadayon sa pagbag-o sa aton para sa amat-amat mangin kaanggid kita sa iya.
Tungod sa kaluoy sang Dios, ginpili niya kami nga magbalita sining bag-o nga paagi nga mangin matarong ang mga tawo nga mangin matarong ang mga tawo , gani wala kami nagakaluya.
Ginsikway namon ang makahuluya nga mga butang nga ginahimo sa sekreto. Wala kami nagadaya sa mga tawo kag wala man namon ginaliwat ang kahulugan sang pulong sang Dios. Nahibaluan gid sang mga tawo nga deretso kag indi sa sekreto ang amon pagsugid sang kamatuoran, kag nakita man ini sang Dios.
Pero kon may mga tawo nga indi makaintiendi sang Maayong Balita nga amon ginapaathag, ina amo ang mga tawo nga nagakalawala.
Indi sila magtuo sa Maayong Balita tungod nga ang ila mga hunahuna gindulman ni Satanas nga amo ang nagapakadios sa sini nga panahon. Ginbulag niya sila para indi sila masanagan sang Maayong Balita parte sa gahom ni Cristo nga amo gid ang kaanggid sang Dios.
Wala kami nagawali parte sa amon kaugalingon kundi parte kay Jesu-Cristo, nga siya ang Ginoo. Nagaalagad kami sa inyo para kay Jesus.
Ang Dios nga nagsiling, “Halin sa kadulom magasiga ang kasanag,”
Kami pareho gid lang sa kolon nga ginbutangan sining malahalon nga butang, para mahibaluan sang mga tawo nga ang gahom nga indi matupungan nga ari sa amon mga lawas nga maluya indi halin sa amon, kundi sa Dios.
Sa amon pagwali permi kami nagaantos, pero wala gid man kami nadaog sang mga nagakontra sa amon. Kon kaisa nagalibog ang amon ulo, pero wala gid kami nadulaan sang paglaom.
Madamo ang nagahandom sa pagpatay sa amon, pero wala gid kami pagpabay-i sang Dios. Matuod nga ginasakit nila kami, pero sa kaluoy sang Dios buhi pa kami gihapon.
Permi kami nabutang sa peligro sang kamatayon pareho sang natabo kay Jesus, agod paagi sa amon kabuhi makita sang tanan ang kabuhi ni Jesus.
Ang amon kabuhi permi sa peligro sang kamatayon tungod sang amon pag-alagad kay Jesus, agod paagi sa sining lawas namon nga may kamatayon makita sang tanan ang kabuhi ni Jesus.
Gani tungod ginawali namon si Cristo Gani tungod ginawali namon si Cristo mahimo nga patyon kami, pero amo man ini ang nagadala sa inyo sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Indi bala nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Nagtuo ako, gani naghambal ako.”
Kay nahibaluan namon nga ang Dios nga nagbanhaw kay Ginoong Jesus amo man ang magabanhaw sa amon, pareho sang iya pagbanhaw kay Jesus, kag dal-on niya kami kaupod ninyo sa iya atubangan.
Ang tanan namon nga mga pag-antos para sa inyo kaayuhan, para samtang nagadamo ang mga tawo nga nagabaton sang grasya sang Dios, magadamo man ang mga tawo nga magapasalamat sa iya, kag sa sini madayaw siya.
Amo ina ang kabangdanan nga wala kami nagakaluya sa pag-alagad sa Dios. Bisan ining amon mga lawas nagaamat-amat luya, ang amon espiritu nagapadayon nga nagabakod.
Kay ang amon mga pag-antos nga umalagi man lang kag indi gid mabug-at nagadala sa amon sa puwerte katahom nga balos nga indi matupungan kag wala sing katapusan.
Kay wala namon ginapasulabi ang mga butang nga amon makita diri sa kalibutan, kundi ginapasulabi namon ang mga butang nga indi makita. Kay ang mga butang nga makita umalagi lang, pero ang mga butang nga indi makita wala sing katapusan.
Ining aton dutan-on nga lawas pareho sang balay nga aton ginapuy-an. Indi bali sa aton kon mapatay ini nga lawas. Kay nahibaluan ta nga may ihatag ang Dios sa aton nga langitnon nga lawas
Sa karon nagaugayong kita kay ginahandom ta nga makapuyo na sa sinang langitnon nga lawas,
para kon makasuklob
Samtang diri pa kita nagapuyo sa sini nga lawas, nagaugayong kita tungod sang kabudlayan. Indi tungod nga gusto ta nga mapatay
Ang Dios ang nagpreparar sa aton para mabaton ta ining bag-o nga lawas. Kag ginhatag niya ang Espiritu Santo Santo sa aton para masiguro ta nga ini himuon gid niya sa aton.
Gani indi kita magkaluya bisan nahibaluan ta nga samtang diri pa kita sa sini nga lawas wala pa kita didto sa puluy-an sang Ginoo.
Kay sa karon nagakabuhi kita sa pagtuo kag indi suno sa aton makita.
Wala kami nagakaluya, bisan pa nga gusto namon kuntani nga bayaan ining lawas kag magpuli didto sa Ginoo.
Sa sini nga bagay, gusto namon nga malipay ang Dios sa amon, bisan diri pa kami ukon didto na sa iya.
Kay kita tanan kinahanglan gid nga mag-atubang sa hukmanan ni Cristo. Kag ang tagsa-tagsa sa aton magabaton sang balos suno sa aton hinimuan, maayo ukon malain man, samtang diri pa kita sa sini nga lawas.
Gani tungod sa kahadlok namon sa Ginoo, ginahimulatan namon nga kombinsihon ang mga tawo nga magtuo sa iya. Nahibaluan sang Dios ang amon pagkatawo, kag nagasalig ako nga ina nahibaluan man ninyo.
Ini indi sa pagdayaw liwat sang amon kaugalingon, kundi gusto lang namon nga mahatagan kamo sang inugpabugal parte sa amon, para may isabat man kamo sa mga tawo nga nagadayaw sang mga butang nga makit-an lang kag indi ang sa tagipusuon gid.
Kon daw buang kami, ina para sa Dios; kag kon husto ang amon panghunahuna, ina para sa inyo.
Kay tungod sa gugma ni Cristo sa amon indi mahimo nga indi namon paghimuon ang iya gusto. Kay kumbinsido kami nga si Cristo napatay para sa tanan, gani ang tanan makabig nga napatay.
Napatay siya para sa tanan, para ang mga tawo nga buhi subong indi na magkabuhi para sa ila kaugalingon kundi para sa iya nga napatay kag nabanhaw para sa ila.
Gani karon, wala na kami nagatulok sa tawo pareho sang pagtulok sang tawo nga wala makakilala sa Dios. Sang una pareho sina ang amon pagtulok kay Cristo. Pero subong indi na.
Ang bisan sin-o nga ara kay Cristo bag-o na nga tawo. Wala na ang iya daan nga pagkatawo, kundi bag-o na siya.
Ang Dios amo ang naghimo sini. Ginpabalik niya kita sa iya paagi kay Cristo. Kag ginhatagan niya kami sing obra sa pagbalita nga ginapabalik na niya ang mga tawo sa iya.
Amo ini ang amon ginabalita: nga ginapabalik na sang Dios ang mga tawo sa iya paagi kay Cristo. Wala na niya ginadumdom ang ila mga sala. Kag kami amo ang iya gintugyanan sa pagpalapnag sini nga balita.
Gani nagabalita kami bilang mga pinadala ni Cristo. Kag paagi sa amon, nagapangabay ang Dios sa inyo nga magbalik na kamo sa iya!
Si Cristo wala gid sing sala, pero siya amo ang ginsilutan sang Dios tungod sa aton mga sala, para kon ara kita kay Cristo, pakamatarungon kita sang Dios.
Tungod nga kami mga kabulig sa ginahimo sang Dios, nagapangabay gid kami sa inyo nga indi ninyo pag-ibaliwala ang grasya nga inyo nabaton sa iya.
Gani pamati kamo! Karon gid ang husto nga tion nga luwason kita sang Dios sang Dios .
Wala kami nagahimo sang bisan ano nga mangin kabangdanan nga maglain ang buot sang mga tawo, para indi pagpakalainon ang amon pag-alagad sa Dios.
Sa tanan namon nga ginahimo, ginapakita namon nga kami mga alagad gid sang Dios. Bisan masyado kabudlay ang amon mga gin-agyan kag ang amon kahimtangan, gin-antos gid namon.
Nakaagi kami hanot kag priso. Naagyan man namon nga ginpulihan kami sang mga tawo. Kon kaisa tudo-tudo gid ang amon pagpangabudlay, kag kon kaisa wala kami sing tulog-tulog kag wala kaon-kaon.
Ginpakita man namon nga matuod kami nga mga alagad sang Dios Ginpakita man namon nga matuod kami nga mga alagad sang Dios paagi sa amon matinlo nga kabuhi, kaalam, pagbatas, kag kalulo. Nakita man sang mga tawo nga Nakita man sang mga tawo nga ang Espiritu Santo amo ang nagatuytoy sa amon, kag ang amon paghigugma sinsero.
Wala kami sang iban nga ginawali kundi ang kamatuoran, kag ginabuligan kami sang Dios paagi sa iya gahom. Ang amon kabuhi nga matarong amo ang amon armas sa pag-ataki sa amon kaaway kag amo man ang amon sagang sa amon kaugalingon.
Kon kaisa ginadayaw kami sang mga tawo kag kon kaisa ginainsultuhan man kami. May mga tawo nga nagahambal sing malain parte sa amon, pero may ara man nga nagahambal sing maayo. May nagasiling nga kami kuno mga butigon, pero ang tanan nga amon ginasugid matuod gid.
Wala kami ginasapak sang iban, pero ang matuod kilala kami sang tanan. Permi kami nabutang sa peligro sang kamatayon, pero buhi pa man kami hasta subong. Ginadisiplina kami sang Dios pero wala kami ginapatay.
May mga ginahimo sa amon para mapasubo kami, pero malipayon man kami gihapon. Imol lang kami, pero madamo nga tawo ang amon ginapabugana. Kon parte sa mga butang diri sa kalibutan, Kon parte sa mga butang diri sa kalibutan, wala kami sing may masiling nga amon, pero ang matuod, kami ang tag-iya sang tanan nga butang.
Mga pinalangga nga Mga pinalangga nga mga taga-Corinto, wala sing lipod-lipod ang amon paghambal sa inyo, kay dako gid ang amon paghigugma sa inyo.
Wala kami nagkulang sang amon paghigugma sa inyo. Kamo amo ang nagkulang sang inyo paghigugma sa amon.
Ginakabig ko kamo bilang akon gid nga mga anak. Gani higugmaa ninyo ako pareho sang akon paghigugma sa inyo.
Indi gid kamo magpakig-isa sa mga wala nagatuo kay Cristo kay Cristo . Kay subong nga ang kasanag indi makaupod sa kadulom, ang maayo indi man makaupod sa malain.
Kag subong nga si Cristo kag si Satanas indi mag-intiendihanay, ang tumuluo kag ang indi tumuluo indi man mag-intiendihanay.
kag mangin katawhan ko sila.”
kag batunon ko kamo.”
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo nga Makagagahom, ang nagasiling sini.”
Mga hinigugma, tungod sining mga promisa sang Dios sa aton, bayaan ta na ang tanan nga nagapahigko sa aton bilog nga kabuhi,
Kon mahimo, batuna ninyo kami sa inyo mga tagipusuon. Wala kami sing may ginhimo nga malain sa bisan kay sin-o sa inyo. Wala man kami sing may gin-guba sa inyo ukon gindayaan.
Wala ako nagahambal sini para pakalainon kamo. Kay pareho sang akon ginsiling sadto, ginapalangga gid namon kamo kag bisan ano ang matabo, mabuhi man ukon mapatay, magaunungay gid kita.
Dako gid ang akon pagsalig sa inyo kag ginapabugal ko gid kamo. Bisan masyado kabudlay sang amon ginaagyan, puno ako sing kalipay sang nakabati ako parte sa inyo sang nakabati ako parte sa inyo .
Kay sang pag-abot namon sa Macedonia, wala gid sing pahuway ang amon lawas tungod kay bisan diin nagaantos kami. Gin-away kami sang mga nagakontra sa amon, kag nagpalibog man kami parte sa kahimtangan sang mga tumuluo.
Pero ang Dios nga nagapabakod kag nagalipay sa mga nagakasubo amo ang nagpabakod kag naglipay sa amon paagi sa pag-abot ni Tito.
Indi lang ang iya pag-abot ang nakahatag kabakod kag kalipay sa amon, kundi ang iya man nga ginsugid nga ginpabakod kag ginlipay ninyo siya. Ginsugiran niya kami nga nahidlaw kamo sa akon kag nagakasubo kamo sang natabo, kag ginaapinan ninyo ako. Gani malipayon na gid ako subong.
Bisan ang akon sulat nga ato nagdala sing kasubo sa inyo, wala ako nagahinulsol nga ginsulat ko ato. Sang una matuod nga naghinulsol ako kay nakita ko nga sang premiro nagkasubo kamo.
Pero subong malipayon ako, indi tungod nga nagkasubo kamo, kundi tungod nga amo ato ang nangin paagi para maghinulsol kamo. Kay ginpasubo kamo suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios, gani wala nagdala sing malain sa inyo atong amon ginsulat.
Kay ang kasubo nga suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios nagadala sa tawo sa paghinulsol, kag ina nagaresulta sing kaluwasan nga indi dapat hinulsulan. Pero ang kasubo sang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios nagadala sa ila sa kamatayon.
Tan-awa ninyo ang resulta sadtong kasubo nga nag-abot sa inyo suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios. Nangin desidido gid kamo sa pagpakita sa amon nga kamo matinlo sa sadto nga sala nga akon ginasiling sa inyo. Naakig gid kamo sa nakahimo sang sadto nga sala, kag nahadlukan kamo kon ano ang mangin resulta sadto. Gusto gid ninyo nga magbalik liwat ang aton daan nga relasyon. Ginsilutan pa gid ninyo ang nakahimo sadto. Kag sa tanan nga butang, ginpakita ninyo nga kamo wala gid sing salabton sa sadto nga sala.
Gani atong akon sulat indi lang para sa nakahimo sing malain ukon sa ginhimuan sing malain, kundi labi na gid para sa inyo tanan para sa presensya sang Dios makita gid ninyo ang inyo pagkasinsero sa amon.
Kag indi lang ina, kundi nadugangan pa gid ang amon kabakod kag kalipay sang makita namon nga nalipay si Tito, kay wala na siya nagapalibog parte sa inyo.
Gindayaw ko kamo sang una sang nag-estoryahanay kami ni Tito parte sa inyo. Kag nakita niya nga matuod ang akon ginsugid sa iya, gani wala ako nahuy-an. Matuod gid ang tanan nga amon ginhambal sa inyo, kag napamatud-an nga matuod man ang amon pagdayaw sa inyo kay Tito.
Kag kada madumduman ni Tito nga kamo tanan nagsunod sa iya ginhambal kag dako ang inyo pagtahod sa iya, nagadugang pa gid ang iya pagpalangga sa inyo.
Kag nagakalipay man ako kay masaligan ko gid kamo.
Mga kauturan, gusto namon isugid sa inyo ang ginhimo sang mga iglesya sa Macedonia paagi sa bulig sang Dios sa ila.
Bisan madamo ang ila naagyan nga mga pagtilaw, malipayon gihapon sila. Amo ina nga maalwan sila sa paghatag bisan tama gid sila kaimol.
Makapamatuod ako sa inyo nga ang ila paghatag indi lang suno sa ila masarangan kundi sobra pa, kay ginhimo nila ini nga buluntaryo.
Kay sila mismo amo ang nagpangabay gid sa amon nga kon mahimo hatagan sila sing kahigayunan para makabulig man sila sa pigado nga pigado nga mga katawhan sang Dios sa Judea sa Judea .
Kag indi lang ina, kundi una sa tanan ginhalad nila ang ila kaugalingon sa Ginoo kag sa amon suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios. Wala gid kami maghunahuna nga makahimo sila sadto.
Tungod sa ila maayo nga ginhimo, ginpangabay namon si Tito nga magbalik dira sa inyo kag magpadayon sang iya naumpisahan nga mga paglaygay parte sa pagtipon sang inyo mga amot para sa mga pigado sa Judea para sa mga pigado sa Judea .
Kamo dira sa Corinto wala ginakulang sa tanan nga butang: dako ang inyo pagtuo sa Dios, maayo kamo magtudlo, kag madamo ang inyo nahibaluan. Mapisan kamo sa inyo pag-alagad sa Dios sa inyo pag-alagad sa Dios , kag dako ang inyo paghigugma sa amon. Gani gusto namon nga ipakita ninyo nga wala man kamo nagakulang sa paghatag.
Wala ko kamo ginasugo nga maghatag, kundi ginasugid ko lang sa inyo ang pagbulig sang iban para mapakita man ninyo sa amon nga ang inyo paghigugma matuod gid.
Nahibaluan man ninyo ang kaayo sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, nga bisan manggaranon siya didto sa langit didto sa langit nagpakaimol siya diri sa duta diri sa duta , agod paagi sa iya kaimulon mangin manggaranon kita.
Gani amo ini ang akon laygay sa inyo: maayo kon padayunon ninyo ang paghatag nga inyo gin-umpisahan sang nagligad nga tuig. Kamo gid ang una nga naghatag kag kamo man ang una nga nakahunahuna nga maghimo sini.
Gani padayuna ninyo ina. Tinguhai ninyo nga tapuson ang inyo ginplano nga gusto gid ninyo nga himuon, kag maghatag kamo suno sa inyo masarangan.
Kay kon gusto gid ninyo nga maghatag, batunon sang Dios ang inyo masarangan. Wala siya nagapaabot nga maghatag kamo sang indi ninyo masarangan.
Wala ako nagasiling nga pamag-anan ninyo ang kahimtangan sang iban hasta kamo na ang mabudlayan, kundi para bala nga magpalareho ang aton kahimtangan.
Sa karon maayo ang inyo pangabuhi, gani nagakabagay lang nga buligan ninyo ang mga ginakulang. Kag kon sa iban nga adlaw kamo naman ang kulangon, kag kon sila may maayo na nga kahimtangan, kundi sila naman ang mabulig sa inyo. Sa sini nga paagi magpalareho ang kahimtangan sang isa kag isa.
kag ang nagtipon sang diutay wala man makulangi.”
Nagapasalamat kami sa Dios nga ginbutang niya sa tagipusuon ni Tito ang pagdumdom sa inyo pareho gid sang amon pagdumdom sa inyo.
Kay indi lang nga nagsugot siya sa amon pangabay nga makadto siya dira sa inyo, kundi siya gid mismo gusto magkadto dira.
Paupdon namon sa iya ang aton utod nga ginadayaw sang tanan nga iglesya tungod sang iya pagpangabudlay para sa Maayong Balita.
Siya amo gani ang ginpili sang mga iglesya nga mag-upod sa amon sa pagdul-ong namon sang sini nga bulig sa mga ginakulang. Ginahimo namon ini para madayaw ang Ginoo kag para mapakita sa mga tawo nga gusto gid namon nga magbulig.
Paupdon namon ini nga utod kay Tito tungod nga Paupdon namon ini nga utod kay Tito tungod nga indi namon gusto nga sa amon pagpanagtag sining dako nga bulig suspetsuhan kami.
Gusto lang namon nga maghimo sang maayo, indi lang sa panulok sang Ginoo kundi sa panulok man sang tawo.
May isa pa gid ka utod nga paupdon namon sa ila. Ini nga tawo makapila na namon natestingan sa nagkalain-lain nga butang kag napamatud-an nga may handom gid siya sa pagbulig, kag labi na gid subong tungod kay dako ang iya pagsalig sa inyo.
Kon parte kay Tito, siya kaupod ko nga nagapangabudlay sa pagbulig sa inyo. Kon parte man sa sining iban nga sining iban nga mga kauturan nga magaupod sa iya nga magaupod sa iya , sila ang mga ginpadala sang mga iglesya. Ang ila kabuhi nagahatag kadayawan kay Cristo.
Gani, ipakita ninyo sa ila nga mahigugmaon kamo para mahibaluan nila nga matuod gid ang amon mga pagdayaw sa inyo, kag mahibaluan man ini sang iban nga iban nga mga iglesya paagi sa ila paagi sa ila .
Indi na kinahanglan nga sulatan ko pa kamo parte sa inyo pagbulig sa mga katawhan sang Dios didto sa Judea didto sa Judea ,
tungod kay nahibaluan ko nga gusto gid man ninyo nga magbulig. Ginapabugal ko gani kamo sa mga taga-Macedonia. Nagasiling ako sa ila nga kamo dira sa Acaya handa na nga magbulig halin pa sang nagligad nga tuig. Sang pagkabati nila sadto, natandog gid ang tagipusuon sang kalabanan sa ila sa paghatag.
Gani ginapauna ko dira sila ni Tito para mabuligan kamo sa pagpreparar sang inyo amot para indi magguwa nga wala sing pulos ang akon pagpabugal parte sa inyo nga kamo handa na.
Kay basi kon may mga taga-Macedonia nga mag-upod sa akon kon magkadto na ako dira kag masapwan nila nga wala pa man gali kamo makahanda sang inyo inughatag. Kon amo ini ang matabo mahuy-an kami, kay ginpabugal namon kamo tungod kay ginpabugal namon kamo tungod kay dako ang amon pagsalig sa inyo. Kag labi nga mahuy-an kamo.
Gani naghunahuna ako nga dapat pangabayon ini nga mga kauturan nga mag-una dira para sa wala pa ako mag-abot, matipon na nila ang inyo amot nga ginpromisa. Kag sa sini nga paagi magaguwa nga naghatag kamo tungod nga gusto ninyo kag indi nga napilitan lang kamo.
Dumduma ninyo ini: Kon diutay ang aton binhi nga ginapanggas, diutay man ang aton pagaanihon. Pero kon madamo ang aton binhi, madamo man ang aton ani.
Ang kada isa dapat maghatag suno sa iya gusto nga ihatag. Indi nga may pagpugong ukon nga napilitan lang, kay ginahigugma sang Dios ang mga nagahatag nga malipayon.
Kag ang Dios sarang makahatag sa inyo sang sobra pa sang sa inyo mga kinahanglanon, para indi gid kamo pagkulangon kag permi pa kamo makabulig sa iban.
ang iya matarong nga ginahimo dumdumon hasta san-o.”
Kag ang Dios nga nagahatag sang binhi sa mangunguma para may pagakaunon siya, amo man ang Dios nga magahatag sa inyo sang inyo mga kinahanglanon. Kag sa sini magadugang pa gid ang inyo pagbulig sa iban.
Pabuganaon niya kamo sa tanan nga butang para makabulig kamo permi sa iban. Kag madamo ang magapasalamat sa Dios tungod sang inyo ginapadala sa ila nga bulig paagi sa amon.
Kay sa sining inyo paghatag, indi lang nga mabuligan ninyo ang mga kinahanglanon sang mga katawhan sang Dios sa Judea sa Judea , kundi paagi man sini madamo ang magapasalamat sa Dios.
Kay ang inyo bulig nagapamatuod nga nagatuman kamo sa Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo nga inyo ginatuohan. Gani dayawon nila ang Dios; kag indi lang tungod kay nagbulig kamo sa ila kundi tungod kay nakabulig kamo sa tanan.
Magapangamuyo sila para sa inyo nga may dako nga paghigugma tungod sa indi matupungan nga pagpakamaayo sang Dios sa inyo.
Gani magpasalamat kita sa Dios tungod sa iya regalo sa aton nga indi masaysay.
Kami matuod mga tawo man lang, pero sa amon pagpakig-away sa mga nagakontra sa kamatuoran sa mga nagakontra sa kamatuoran , wala kami nagasalig sa amon kaugalingon nga ikasarang,
Karon, kon makita namon nga nagatuman na gid kamo sang tanan, ang wala nagatuman silutan namon.
Hunahunaa bala ninyo sang maathag. Kon may ara nga nagapati nga siya iya ni Cristo, dapat hunahunaon niya nga kami iya man ni Cristo.
Bisan daw sobra na ang akon pagpabugal parte sa awtoridad nga ginhatag sa akon sang Ginoo, wala ako nahuya, kay ini nga awtoridad wala ko ginagamit sa pagguba sang inyo pagtuo, kundi sa pagpabakod sini.
Indi ko gusto nga maghunahuna kamo nga ginapahog ko kamo sa akon mga sulat.
Kay ang iban dira sa inyo nagasiling nga maisog ako kon sa sulat, pero kon nagaatubang na gani maluya ako kag wala sing pulos ang akon mga ginahambal.
Dapat makahibalo ang mga nagahambal sina nga kon ano ang amon ginahambal sa sulat, amo man ina ang amon himuon kon ara na kami dira.
Indi kami mangahas nga magkomparar ukon magkabig sang amon kaugalingon nga pareho sa iban dira nga sobra ang ila pagpadayaw sang ila kaugalingon. Mga buang-buang gid sila, kay nagataksanay sila kag nagakomparahanay sang ila kaugalingon nga kaayo.
Pero kami ya wala nagapabugal sing sobra, kundi hasta gid lang sa obra nga ginhatag sang Dios sa amon, kag lakip diri ang amon obra sa inyo.
Kon wala kami nakaabot dira sa inyo, puwede nila masiling nga nagasulubra ang amon pagpabugal. Pero ang matuod, kami ang una nga nakaabot dira nga nagadala sang Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo.
Gani indi sobra ang amon pagpabugal kay wala kami nagaangkon sang pinangabudlayan sang iban kag ipabugal. Nagasalig man kami nga samtang nagadugang ang inyo pagtuo, mas madamo pa gid ang amon mahimo dira sa inyo suno sa ginapahimo sang Dios sa amon.
Pagkatapos dira, mawali man namon dayon ang Maayong Balita sa iban nga mga lugar sa unhan ninyo. Kay indi namon gusto nga angkunon ang pinangabudlayan sang iban kag ipabugal.
Pareho bala sang ginasiling sang Kasulatan, Pareho bala sang ginasiling sang Kasulatan, “Ang bisan sin-o nga gusto magpabugal, dapat ipabugal lamang niya ang ginhimo sang Ginoo.”
Kay ang Ginoo wala nagakalipay sa tawo nga nagadayaw sang iya kaugalingon, kundi sa tawo nga iya ginadayaw.
Kon ang akon pagpabugal subong ginakabig ninyo nga kabuangan, pasensyahon lang ninyo ako.
Kay may diosnon ako nga kaimon nga ginabatyag sa inyo. Pareho kamo sa isa ka dalaga nga matinlo ang iya pagkababayi, nga akon ginpromisa nga ipakasal sa isa ka lalaki nga amo si Cristo.
Pero nagakahadlok ako nga basi kon dayaan kamo, pareho kay Eva nga gindayaan sang man-og, kag madula ang inyo sinsero nga handom nga magsunod kay Cristo.
Kay ginabaton lang ninyo ang bisan sin-o nga nagakadto dira sa inyo nga nagawali sang lain nga Jesus sang sa amon ginwali sa inyo. Kag ginabaton man ninyo ang lain nga klase sang espiritu kag ang ila ginatawag nga maayo nga balita nga lain sang sa inyo nga nabaton sa amon.
Kon sa akon, indi gid man ako ulihi sa mga nagasiling dira nga sila gid ang labing maayo nga mga apostoles.
Mahimo nga indi ako maayo maghambal, pero madamo man ang akon nahibaluan parte sa kamatuoran. Kag nahibaluan ninyo ina kay nakita man ninyo mismo nga ina matuod sa tanan namon nga mga pagtudlo.
Wala ako nagpabayad sa inyo sang akon pagwali sang Maayong Balita nga halin sa Dios, kundi nagsakripisyo ako para mag-ayo ang inyo espiritual nga kabuhi. Ti malain bala atong akon ginhimo?
Daw pareho lang nga ginkawatan ko ang iban nga mga iglesya paagi sa pagbaton sing bulig sa ila para makaalagad ako sa inyo.
Sang ginkulang ako sang akon mga kinahanglanon wala man ako nagpangayo sang bulig sa bisan kay sin-o sa inyo. Ang aton aton mga kauturan sa Macedonia amo ang naghatag sa akon sang akon mga kinahanglanon. Ginlikawan ko nga pabug-atan kamo, kag amo gid man ini permi ang akon pagahimuon.
Ining akon ginapabugal indi gid mapauntat tungod kay indi gid ako magpangayo sing bulig sa inyo ukon tungod kay indi gid ako magpangayo sing bulig sa inyo ukon sa mga lugar sa inyo palibot sa inyo palibot nga sakop sang probinsya sang probinsya sang Acaya. Kag tungod kay si Cristo ari sa akon, ang akon ginahambal matuod gid.
Pero basi kon magsiling kamo nga wala ako nagapangayo sing bulig sa inyo tungod kay wala ko kamo ginapalangga. Sala ina Sala ina . Kay palangga ko gid kamo kag ina nahibaluan sang Dios.
Pero tindugan ko ang akon ginhambal nga indi ako magbaton sang bulig halin sa inyo, para ang mga tawo nga nagapakaapostoles indi makasiling nga sila nagapangabudlay pareho sa amon.
Ina nga mga tawo indi matuod nga mga apostoles, kundi mga manugdaya kag nagapakuno-kuno lang nga sila mga apostoles ni Cristo.
Kon sa bagay, indi katingalahan ina. Kay bisan gani si Satanas nagapakuno-kuno nga anghel nga nagahatag sang kasanag.
Gani indi katingalahan kon ang iya mga sinakpan nagapakuno-kuno man nga mga alagad sang pagkamatarong. Pero magaabot ang adlaw nga silutan sila sang silot nga bagay man sa ila ginahimo.
Pareho sang akon ginhambal sadto, indi kamo maghunahuna nga buang-buang ako; pero kon amo ina ang hunahuna ninyo sa akon, waay kaso, basta pabay-an lang ninyo ako nga magpabugal man sing bisan diutay lang.
Kon sa bagay, kon ginapabugal ko ang akon kaugalingon, indi ina halin sa Ginoo, kag daw sa buang-buang ako.
Pero tungod nga madamo dira ang nagapabugal pareho sa mga tawo sa kalibutan, ako mapabugal man.
Nagahunahuna kamo nga Nagahunahuna kamo nga maalam kamo, pero ginapabay-an lang ninyo nga diktahan kamo sang mga buang-buang.
Ginahimo nila kamo nga mga ulipon, ginakuha nila ang inyo pagkabutang, ginadayaan nila kamo, ginapakanubo kag ginapakahuy-an nila kamo. Bisan amo ina ang ila ginahimo ginapabay-an gid lang ninyo.
Kon may mangahas nga magpabugal sang bisan ano, ako mangahas man; bisan matuod nga sa sining akon pagpabugal daw sa buang-buang ako.
Kon sila nagapabugal nga sila mga Judio kag mga kaliwat ni Israel kag ni Abraham, ako amo man.
Kon nagasiling sila nga sila mga alagad ni Cristo, mas maayo ako nga alagad ni Cristo sang sa ila. Nahibaluan ko nga sa sining akon mga ginapabugal daw sa buang gid ako, pero ang matuod, mas maayo gid ako nga alagad sang sa ila tungod kay pero ang matuod, mas maayo gid ako nga alagad sang sa ila tungod kay mas madamo ang akon pagpangabudlay kon ikomparar sa ila. Kag mas madamo nga beses ako napriso. Permi gid ako ginhanot, kag makapila ka beses nga ara ako sa peligro sang kamatayon.
Lima gid ka beses nga ginhanot ako sang akon kapareho nga akon kapareho nga mga Judio sing tag-39 ka lapdos.
Tatlo ka beses ako ginlampusan. Kag kaisa ako ginbato. Katatlo ako nakaagi nga nalunod ang akon ginasakyan, kag isa sina ka bes, isa ka adlaw kag isa ka gab-i ang akon paglutaw-lutaw sa lawod.
Sa akon pagbiyahe sa nagkalain-lain nga lugar, ang akon kabuhi permi nabutang sa peligro. Nabutang ako sa peligro sa akon mga pagtabok sa mga suba, sa mga tulisan, sa akon kapareho nga mga Judio, sa mga indi Judio, sa siyudad, sa kamingawan, sa dagat, kag sa mga tawo nga nagapakuno-kuno nga sila mga kauturan man kay Cristo kay Cristo .
Naagyan ko man ang mga kabudlayan tungod sang akon obra, kag kon kaisa wala gani ako tinulugan. May mga beses nga indi ako makakaon, kag kon kaisa wala gid ako sing may makaon kag bisan gani sang mainom wala gid. Naagyan ko man ang katugnaw kag kakulang sang bayo.
Wala pa labot sang akon mga naagyan nga wala ko nasambit, nagapalibog pa ako adlaw-adlaw sa kahimtangan sang tanan nga iglesya.
Kon may ara nga maluya sa pagtuo sa pagtuo , nagakasubo ako. Kag kon may ara nga nagapakasala, puwerte gid ang akon kasubo.
Kon kinahanglan gid man nga magpabugal ako, ipabugal ko na lang ang mga butang nga nagapakita sang akon kaluyahon.
Wala ako nagabutig kag ina nahibaluan sang Dios kag Amay sang aton Ginoong Jesus. Dalayawon siya hasta san-o.
Sang didto ako sa Damascus, ginpabantayan sang gobernador nga sakop ni Haring Aretas ang puwertahan sang siyudad para dakpon ako.
Pero ginbutang ako sang akon mga upod sang akon mga upod sa kaing kag gintunton sa guwa sang pader sang siyudad sang siyudad halin sa bintana, gani nakapalagyo ako.
Nahibaluan ko nga wala sing pulos nga magsagi ako pabugal, pero napilitan ako. Karon isugid ko sa inyo ang mga butang nga ginpakita kag ginpahayag sang Ginoo sa akon.
Atong akon naagyan amo ang akon ipabugal. Pero kon parte sa akon kaugalingon, indi ako magpabugal luwas lang kon parte sa akon mga kaluyahon.
Kon sa bagay, kon magpabugal gid man ako, indi ako mangin buang-buang kay magasugid man ako sang kamatuoran. Pero indi ako magpabugal kay basi kon magsobra ang ila pagtan-aw sa akon. Gusto ko nga ang ila pagtan-aw sa akon suno lang sa ila nakita kag nabatian sa akon.
Pero para indi ako magpabugal sing sobra tungod sa makatilingala nga mga ginpahayag sang Dios sa akon, ang iya ginhimo, gintugutan niya si Satanas nga hatagan ako sang deperensya sa akon lawas. Ginpabay-an lang sang Dios nga paantuson ako ni Satanas sining akon deperensya para indi ako magpabugal.
Tatlo gid ka beses nga ginpangayo ko sa Ginoo nga kuhaon niya ini sa akon.
Pero wala niya pagkuhaa Pero wala niya pagkuhaa . Sa baylo nagsiling siya, “Ang akon bulig amo lang ang imo kinahanglan. Kay makita gid ang akon gahom kon maluya ka.” Gani malipayon gid ako sa pagpabugal parte sa akon mga kaluyahon, para mabatyagan ko permi ang gahom ni Cristo sa akon.
Gani malipayon ako subong sa akon mga kaluyahon, sa mga pag-insulto sa akon, sa mga kabudlayan, sa mga paghingabot, kag sa mga kapiutan tungod sang akon pagsunod kay Cristo. Kay kon maluya ako, ginapabaskog ako sang Dios sang Dios .
Daw sa buang-buang ako sa akon nga pagpabugal, sa akon nga pagpabugal, pero kamo mismo ang nagtulod sa akon nga magpabugal nga magpabugal . Kay kamo kuntani ang dapat nagdayaw sa akon sa mga nagapakuno-kuno nga mga apostoles, pero wala ninyo ako pagdayawa. Bisan nahibaluan ko nga sa akon kaugalingon wala ako sing may ipabugal, indi man ako magpaulihi sa sina nga mga tawo nga mga labing maayo kuno nga mga apostoles.
Sang dira ako sa inyo, padayon ang akon paghimo sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang bisan pa nga may mga sablag nga nag-alabot sa akon. Kag ini nagapamatuod sang akon pagkaapostol.
Ang akon ginhimo dira sa inyo pareho man sang akon ginahimo sa iban nga mga iglesya, luwas lang nga wala ako nagpabug-at sa inyo paagi sa pagpangayo sang inyo bulig sa akon. Kon sa sina nga butang nakasala ako sa inyo, pasensyaha lang ninyo ako.
Karon preparado na ako nga magkadto dira sa inyo kag ini mangin ikatlo na ka beses. Indi gihapon ako magpangayo sang bulig sa inyo, tungod kay indi man ang inyo pagkabutang ang akon ginapangita kundi kamo mismo. Kay daw mga bata ko kamo, kag daw mga bata ko kamo, kag indi bala nga ang mga bata indi kinahanglan nga magsuporta para sa ila mga ginikanan kundi ang mga ginikanan amo ang magsuporta para sa ila mga bata?
Ang matuod lang, malipayon pa gani ako kon makahatag ako sa inyo, kag bisan pa ang akon kabuhi ihatag ko kon kinahanglan para makabulig ako sa inyo. Pero ngaa nga bisan dako ang akon pagpalangga sa inyo, kadiutay gid lang sang inyo pagpalangga sa akon?
Kamo mismo makakomporme nga wala ako nagpasagod sa inyo. Pero basi kon may magsiling sa inyo nga dayaon ako kag natuntuhan ko kamo.
Pero paano? Kay nahibaluan man ninyo nga wala gid ako nagpanguwarta sa inyo paagi sa bisan kay sin-o nga akon ginpadala dira.
Ginpangabay ko man si Tito nga magkadto dira kag ginpaupod ko man sa iya ang isa pa gid ka utod. Indi man kamo makasiling nga namintaha si Tito sa inyo. Indi mahimo nga intuon niya kamo kay nakita man ninyo nga pareho ang amon pagginawi kag katuyuan.
Basi kon dugay na ang inyo paghunahuna nga wala kami sang iban nga ginahimo kundi ang pagdepensa lang sang amon kaugalingon sa inyo. Mga hinigugma, kami nga ara kay Cristo nagasiling sa inyo sa atubangan sang Dios nga wala kami sang iban nga katuyuan sa tanan nga amon ginahambal kundi ang pagpabakod sang inyo pagtuo.
Nahadlok ako, kay basi kon pag-abot ko dira, makita ko nga ang inyo ginahimo lain sang sa akon ginapaabot sa inyo. Kag kon ina ang matabo, kon ina ang matabo, makita man ninyo nga lain man ako sang sa inyo ginapaabot sa akon. Nahadlok ako, kay basi kon maabtan ko kamo nga nagailinaway, nagahinisaay, nagainakigay, nagahandom lang para sa inyo kaugalingon, nagahambal sang malain kontra sa iban, nagakutsokutso, nagapabugal, kag nagaginamo.
Nahadlok man ako, kay basi kon pag-abot ko dira mahuy-an naman ako sa Dios tungod sa inyo. Kag basi kon magakasubo lang ako tungod kay madamo sa inyo ang nagpakasala sang una, kag hasta subong wala pa naghinulsol sang ila mga mahigko nga ginhimo pareho sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon kag pagusto nga paghimo sang kalautan.
Amo na ini ang akon mangin ikatlo nga pagkadto dira sa inyo. Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, Nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang akusasyon dapat mapamatud-an sang duha ukon tatlo ka saksi.”
Karon, gusto ko nga paandaman ang mga nakasala sang una, kag pati man ang tanan, nga ang mga butang nga akon ginhambal sang ikaduha ko nga pagkadto dira ginasulit ko subong—nga sa akon pag-abot liwat dira wala gid sing may makalikaw sa akon pagdisiplina.
Himuon ko ini para pamatud-an sa inyo nga si Cristo ang nagahambal paagi sa akon, kay amo man ini ang inyo ginapangita. Indi siya maluya sa iya pagpanghikot sa inyo kundi makagagahom.
Matuod ginlansang si Cristo sa krus tungod kay ginpaubos niya ang iya kaugalingon, pero subong buhi siya tungod sa gahom sang Dios. Kag tungod kay ara kami kay Cristo, nagapaubos kami sang amon kaugalingon pareho sa iya. Pero sa amon pag-alagad sa inyo, makita man ninyo nga ang gahom sang Dios ari man sa amon tungod kay siya upod namon.
Usisaa ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon kon bala may pagtuo gid gid kamo kay Cristo kay Cristo . Tan-awa maayo ang inyo kabuhi. Indi bala nahibaluan na ninyo nga si Cristo Jesus ara sa inyo?—luwas kon masapwan nga indi kamo matuod nga mga tumuluo.
Nagasalig ako nga makita ninyo nga kami matuod gid nga mga apostoles ni Cristo.
Nagapangamuyo kami sa Dios nga indi kamo maghimo sang bisan ano nga malain. Wala kami nagapangamuyo sini para makita sang mga tawo nga ginasunod ninyo ang amon mga ginatudlo sa inyo, kay bisan indi ninyo kami pagkilalahon nga mga apostoles ni Cristo, basta nagahimo kamo sing maayo.
Kay indi kami makahimo sang bisan ano nga kontra sa kamatuoran, kundi ang para gid lang sa kamatuoran.
Nagakalipay kami kay sa pagpaubos namon sang amon kaugalingon nangin mabaskog kamo sa inyo pagtuo sa inyo pagtuo . Ang amon ginapangamuyo nga wala gid sing may makita nga kasawayan sa inyo.
Nagasulat ako sini sa inyo samtang wala pa ako dira, para sa pag-abot ko indi na ako mapilitan nga maggamit sang akon awtoridad sa masakit nga mga hambal. Kay ginhatag sa akon sang Dios ang awtoridad nga ini para palig-unon kamo, kag indi nga para gub-on.
Sa katapusan, paalam sa inyo
Ang tanan nga katawhan sang Dios diri nagapangamusta sa inyo.
Kabay pa nga ara sa inyo tanan ang pagpakamaayo sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, ang gugma sang Dios, kag ang pagpakig-upod sang Espiritu Santo.
Ako Ako si Pablo nga apostol. Ang akon pagkaapostol Ang akon pagkaapostol indi halin sa tawo ukon paagi sa tawo, kundi paagi kay Jesu-Cristo kag sa Dios nga Amay nga nagbanhaw sa iya halin sa kamatayon.
Ako Ako kag ang tanan nga kauturan diri nagapangamusta nagapangamusta sa mga iglesya dira sa Galacia.
Naghalad si Cristo sang iya kaugalingon para mapatawad kita sa aton mga sala, kag para maluwas niya kita sa kalautan nga nagahari sa sini nga panahon. Ginhimo niya ini tungod nga amo ini ang kabubut-on sang aton Dios kag Amay.
Dalayawon ang Dios hasta san-o! Amen.
Natingala gid ako nga kadali lang sa inyo magtalikod sa Dios nga nagtawag sa inyo paagi sa grasya ni Cristo kag magpati sa iban nga maayong balita.
Ang matuod Ang matuod wala na sang iban pa nga maayong balita. Pero nasambit ko ini tungod nga may mga tawo dira nga nagagamo sa inyo kay gusto nila nga tikuon ang Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo.
Pero tandai ninyo ini: bisan ang anghel nga halin sa langit ukon bisan kami pa ang magwali sang lain nga maayong balita sang sa amon anay ginwali sa inyo, sumpaon siya sang Dios!
Nagsiling na kami sang una, kag subong ginasulit ko, nga ang bisan sin-o nga nagawali sa inyo sang lain nga maayong balita sang sa inyo nabaton sa amon, sumpaon siya sang Dios.
Indi kamo maghunahuna nga gusto ko lang nga dayawon ako sang tawo. Indi! Gusto ko nga ang Dios amo ang magdayaw sa akon. Indi man kamo maghunahuna nga gusto ko lang magpaayon sa mga tawo, kay kon amo ina ang akon ginahimo, indi ako matuod nga alagad ni Cristo.
Gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo mga kauturan, nga ang Maayong Balita nga akon ginwali sa inyo indi himo-himo lang sang tawo.
Wala ko ini nabaton halin sa tawo, kag wala man sang tawo nga nagtudlo sini sa akon, kundi si Jesu-Cristo ang nagpahayag sini sa akon.
Nabatian ninyo ang akon mga ginhimo sang nagasunod pa ako sa relihiyon sang mga Judio. Ginhingabot ko nga wala sing luoy-luoy ang iglesya sang Dios, kag gintinguhaan ko nga laglagon sila tanan.
Kag kon parte sa mga pagtuman sa amon mga pagsulundan sa relihiyon sang mga Judio, nalabawan ko ang kadam-an sa akon mga katubo-tubo nga mga Judio, kay gintinguhaan ko nga tumanon gid ang mga tradisyon sang amon mga katigulangan.
Pero ginkaluoyan ako sang Dios, kay sa wala pa ako matawo ginpili na niya ako kag gintawag nga mag-alagad sa iya nga mag-alagad sa iya .
Kag sang nagpahayag ang Dios sa akon sang iya Anak para iwali siya sa mga indi Judio, wala ako nagpatudlo kay bisan sin-o.
Wala man ako nagkadto sa Jerusalem para magpakigkita sa mga apostoles nga nauna sa akon. Sa baylo, nagkadto ako dayon sa Arabia kag pagkatapos nagbalik ako sa Damascus.
Pagkatapos sang tatlo ka tuig, nagkadto ako sa Jerusalem para magpakigkita kay Pedro.
Wala ako sang iban nga nakita didto nga mga apostoles luwas lang kay Santiago nga utod sang Ginoo.
Matuod ang tanan nga ginasugid ko sa sulat nga ini, kag nahibaluan sang Dios nga wala ako nagabutig.
Dayon nagkadto ako sa Syria kag sa Cilicia.
Sang sadto nga tiyempo indi pa ako personal nga kilala sang mga iglesya nga ara kay Cristo sa Judea.
Nabalitaan lang nila nga ang nagahingabot anay sa ila nagawali na sang pagtuo nga sadto gintinguhaan niya nga dulaon.
Gani gindayaw nila ang Dios tungod sa ginhimo niya sa akon.
Pagkaligad sang 14 ka tuig, nagbalik liwat ako sa Jerusalem. Kaupod ko si Barnabas, kag gindala ko man si Tito.
Nagbalik ako tungod nga nagpahayag ang Dios sa akon nga makadto ako didto. Nagpakigkita ako sa mga manugdumala sang mga tumuluo. Kag sang kamihanon na lang, ginpaathag ko sa ila kon ano ang Maayong Balita nga akon ginawali sa mga indi Judio. Ginhimo ko ato kay indi ko gusto nga mangin wala sing pulos ang akon mga pagpangabudlay sang una kag subong.
Komporme sila sa akon ginawali, Komporme sila sa akon ginawali, kay bisan indi Judio si Tito nga akon upod, wala sila nagpilit nga tulion siya suno sa Kasuguan ni Moises suno sa Kasuguan ni Moises .
Ang mga tawo lang nga nagpakuno-kuno nga sila mga tumuluo ang nagsiling nga kinahanglan siya nga tulion. Ato nga mga tawo nag-impon lang sa mga tumuluo para panilagan ang aton kahilwayan sa Kasuguan ni Moises sa Kasuguan ni Moises , nga naangkon ta paagi kay Cristo Jesus. Kay gusto nila nga pasundon kita sa sina nga mga sugo.
Pero wala gid kami nagsunod sa ila gusto bisan gamay lang, para matipigan namon para sa inyo ang kamatuoran nga ginatudlo nga ginatudlo sang Maayong Balita.
Ang mga manugdumala sang mga tumuluo didto sa Jerusalem didto sa Jerusalem wala gid sing may gindugang sa akon ginatudlo. (Kon sa bagay ano gid man ina sa akon kon sin-o gid sila, tungod nga sa Dios palareho lang kami.)
Sa baylo, ginkilala nila nga ako amo ang ginatugyanan sang Dios nga magtudlo sang Maayong Balita sa mga indi Judio, pareho man kay Pedro nga gintugyanan sa pagtudlo sa mga Judio.
Kay ang Dios nga naghimo sa kay Pedro nga mangin apostol para sa mga Judio amo man ang naghimo sa akon nga mangin apostol nga mangin apostol para sa mga indi Judio.
Gani pagkahibalo sang mga ginakilala nga mga manugdumala sang mga tumuluo, nga amo sila ni Santiago, Pedro kag Juan, nga ginhatagan ako sang Dios sini nga buluhaton, ginbaton nila kami ni Barnabas bilang ila mga kaupod nga manugpangabudlay nga manugpangabudlay . Kag nagsugtanay kami nga kami ni Barnabas magawali magawali sa mga indi Judio kag sila ya sa mga Judio.
Ang ila lang pangabay sa amon nga buligan namon ang imol nga mga tumuluo didto sa Jerusalem didto sa Jerusalem . Amo man gani ina ang akon luyag nga himuon.
Karon, sang si Pedro didto sa Antioc, ginsaway ko siya tungod nga sala ang iya ginhimo.
Amo ini ang natabo Amo ini ang natabo : sang wala pa makaabot ang mga tinawo ni Santiago, nagakaon si Pedro kaupod sang mga indi Judio nga mga tumuluo nga mga tumuluo . Pero pag-abot sang mga tinawo ni Santiago, nagbulag siya kag indi na gid siya magkaon upod sa mga indi Judio, kay nahadlok siya nga basi sawayon siya sang mga Judio nga nagapati nga ang mga indi Judio kinahanglan nga magpatuli.
Pati ang iban nga Judio nga mga tumuluo didto sa Antioc nga mga tumuluo didto sa Antioc nagsunod man kay Pedro bisan nahibaluan nila nga indi malain ang magkaon upod sa mga indi Judio. Bisan gani si Barnabas nadala man sa ila pagpakuno-kuno.
Sang nakita ko nga wala sila nagasunod sa kamatuoran nga ginatudlo nga ginatudlo sang Maayong Balita, ginhambalan ko si Pedro sa atubangan sang tanan. Nagsiling ako sa iya, “Ngaa ginhimo mo ato? Daw pareho lang nga ginhimo mo ato? Daw pareho lang nga ginapilit mo ang mga indi Judio nga magkabuhi subong mga Judio.
Natawo kami nga mga Judio, kag lain kami sa mga indi Judio nga ginakabig sang kapareho namon nga mga Judio nga ginakabig sang kapareho namon nga mga Judio nga mga makasasala.
Pero nahibaluan namon nga ginapakamatarong sang Dios ang tawo paagi sa iya pagtuo kay Cristo Jesus kag indi sa pagtuman sa Kasuguan. Gani kami man nga mga Judio nagtuo kay Cristo Jesus para pakamatarungon kami sang Dios tungod sa amon pagtuo kag indi tungod sa amon pagtuman sa Kasuguan. Kay wala gid sing tawo nga pakamatarungon sang Dios paagi sa iya pagtuman sa Kasuguan.
Karon, kon sa amon handom nga pakamatarungon kami sang Dios sang Dios paagi sa amon pagpakig-isa kay Cristo nagaguwa nga kami makasasala tungod nga ginabaliwala namon ang Kasuguan tungod nga ginabaliwala namon ang Kasuguan , ano, nagakahulugan bala nga si Cristo nagatulod sa paghimo sang sala? Indi mahimo!
Pero kon balikan ko naman ang pagsalig sa Kasuguan nga pagsalig sa Kasuguan nga akon ginbayaan, ako na ang nagapamatuod nga makasasala ako tungod nga ginlapas ko ang Kasuguan tungod nga ginlapas ko ang Kasuguan .
Ang matuod, paagi mismo sa Kasuguan nahibaluan ko nga wala sing gahom ang Kasuguan sa akon.
Napatay ako kaupod ni Cristo sa krus. Indi na ako ang nagakabuhi subong, kundi si Cristo na ang nagakabuhi sa akon. Kag ining kabuhi nga akon ginakabuhi subong amo ang resulta sang akon pagtuo sa Anak sang Dios nga naghigugma sa akon kag naghalad sang iya kabuhi para sa akon.
Wala ko ginapakawalay pulos ang grasya sang Dios. Kay kon ang pagtuman sa Kasuguan amo ang paagi nga pakamatarungon sang Dios ang tawo, ti, wala sing pulos ang kamatayon ni Cristo.
Kamo nga mga taga-Galacia, kulang ang inyo pag-intiendi! Ngaa nagapati kamo sa mga tawo nga nagadaya sa inyo nga sundon gid ninyo ang Kasuguan ni Moises nga sundon gid ninyo ang Kasuguan ni Moises ? Maathag ang akon ginsiling sa inyo kon ano ang kahulugan sang kamatayon ni Cristo sa krus.
Indi bala nga nabaton na ninyo ang Espiritu Santo Santo paagi sa inyo pagtuo sa Maayong Balita nga Maayong Balita nga inyo nabatian, kag indi tungod sa inyo pagtuman sa Kasuguan?
Matuod gid nga kulang ang inyo pag-intiendi. Kay sang pagsugod ninyo sang inyo pagtuo kay Cristo sang inyo pagtuo kay Cristo nagsalig kamo sa bulig sang Espiritu Santo Santo , pero subong nagahunahuna kamo nga malambot ninyo ang inyo lalambuton bilang Kristohanon bilang Kristohanon paagi sa inyo kaugalingon nga pagpaninguha.
Ano, wala bala sing pulos ang inyo naeksperiensyahan? Indi mahimo nga wala lang ato sing pulos.
Indi bala nga ginhatagan kamo sang Dios sang Espiritu Santo Santo kag paagi sa iya nagahimo kamo sang mga milagro? Kag indi bala nga nabaton ninyo ini paagi sa inyo pagtuo sa Maayong Balita nga Maayong Balita nga inyo nabatian, kag indi tungod sa inyo pagtuman sa Kasuguan?
Pareho bala sang natabo kay Abraham. Suno sa Kasulatan Suno sa Kasulatan , “Nagtuo siya sa Dios, kag tungod sang iya pagtuo ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios sang Dios .”
Gani maathag nga ang mga tawo nga nagatuo sa Dios amo ang matuod nga mga kaliwat ni Abraham.
Sang una pa gid, nagsiling ang Kasulatan nga pakamatarungon sang Dios ang mga indi Judio tungod sang ila pagtuo. Suno sa Kasulatan, Suno sa Kasulatan, ining Maayong Balita ginpahayag na daan sang Dios kay Abraham. Nagsiling siya, Nagsiling siya, “Pakamaayuhon ko ang tanan nga nasyon paagi sa imo.”
Gani ang mga nagatuo ginapakamaayo man pareho kay Abraham nga nagtuo sa Dios sa Dios .
Pero ang mga tawo nga nagasalig sa ila pagtuman sa Kasuguan ginpakamalaot na sang Dios sang Dios . Kay suno sa Kasulatan, “ginapakamalaot ang wala nagatuman sang tanan nga ginapatuman sang Kasuguan.”
Maathag nga wala gid sing tawo nga pakamatarungon sang Dios tungod sang iya pagtuman sa Kasuguan. Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang tawo nga ginpakamatarong tungod sa iya pagtuo magakabuhi.
Ang Kasuguan wala sing labot sa pagtuo, kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang tawo nga nagatuman sang Kasuguan makaangkon sang kabuhi.”
Ginpakamalaot na kita tungod nga indi ta matuman ang tanan nga ginasiling sang Kasuguan. Pero gintubos kita ni Cristo sa sini nga pagpakamalaot. Siya amo ang ginpakamalaot para sa aton. Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ang bisan sin-o nga ginbitay sa kahoy ginpakamalaot.”
Amo ini ang ginhimo sang Dios Amo ini ang ginhimo sang Dios agod paagi kay Cristo Jesus ang pagpakamaayo nga iya ginhatag kay Abraham mahatag man niya sa mga indi Judio, agod paagi sa aton pagtuo mabaton ta ang Espiritu Santo Santo nga iya ginpromisa.
Mga kauturan, hatagan ko kamo sang halimbawa. Wala sing may makapanginwala ukon makadugang sa kasugtanan nga ginpirmahan na.
Karon, nagpromisa ang Dios ang Dios kay Abraham kag sa iya kaliwat. Wala siya nagsiling kay Abraham kay Abraham , “sa imo mga kaliwat” nga ang buot silingon madamo nga tawo, kundi ang siling niya, “sa imo kaliwat”
Ang buot ko silingon amo ini: Ang kasugtanan sang Dios kay Abraham kay Abraham nahimo sa wala pa ang Kasuguan, tungod nga mga 430 pa ka tuig ang nakaligad antes ginhatag sang Dios ang Kasuguan. Gani atong ginpromisa sang Dios indi mahimo nga gub-on ukon dulaon sang Kasuguan.
Kay kon mabaton ta ang pagpakamaayo paagi sa pagtuman sa Kasuguan, ti wala na sing pulos ang iya promisa kay Abraham. Pero ang matuod, ginhatag sang Dios ang pagpakamaayo bilang pagtuman sa iya promisa.
Kon amo sina, ngaa ginhatag pa gid ang Kasuguan? Ang Kasuguan gindugang sang Dios para mahibaluan sang mga tawo nga nagapakasala sila. Kag ini hasta lang sa pag-abot sang kaliwat ni Abraham ni Abraham nga gintumod sang Dios sa iya promisa. Ginhatag sang Dios ina nga Kasuguan paagi sa iya mga anghel, kag sila ang naghatag sini sa mga tawo paagi sa manugpatunga.
Pero ang promisa indi pareho sini Pero ang promisa indi pareho sini . Wala ini ginhatag sang Dios kay Abraham kay Abraham paagi sa manugpatunga ukon kaupod ang mga anghel, kundi siya lang mismo.
Karon, basi maghunahuna kamo nga ang Kasuguan nagakontra sa mga promisa sang Dios. Wala! Kay kon ginhatag ang Kasuguan para makahatag sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan , ina na lang kuntani ang paagi sang Dios para pakamatarungon niya kita.
Sa baylo, nagasiling ang Kasulatan nga ang tanan nga tawo gin-ulipon sang sala. Gani ang mga nagatuo kay Jesu-Cristo amo lang ang makaangkon sang ginpromisa sang Dios.
Sang wala pa ang ginatawag nga pagtuo kay Cristo kay Cristo , daw pareho kita sa mga priso. Ang Kasuguan amo ang nagpriso sa aton hasta sa adlaw nga nag-abot si Cristo kag nagtuo na kita sa iya.
Ang halimbawa sang Kasuguan pareho sang isa ka yaya nga nag-atipan sa aton hasta sa pag-abot ni Cristo, agod paagi sa aton pagtuo sa iya sa iya pakamatarungon niya kita.
Kag tungod nga subong ara na ang ginatawag nga pagtuo, wala na kita sa idalom sang pag-atipan sang sina nga yaya.
Kamo tanan mga anak na sang Dios tungod sang inyo pagtuo kay Cristo Jesus.
Kay ginbautisohan kamo sa inyo pagpakig-isa kay Cristo.
Karon palareho na lang ang mga Judio kag ang mga indi Judio, ang mga ulipon kag ang mga indi ulipon, ang mga lalaki kag ang mga babayi. Kita tanan palareho na lang tungod nga kita ara na kay Cristo Jesus.
Kag tungod nga kamo iya na ni Cristo, mga kaliwat kamo ni Abraham, kag kon ano ang ginpromisa sang Dios sang Dios kay Abraham mabaton man ninyo.
Samtang bata pa ang manunubli, pareho lang siya sa ulipon bisan matuod nga siya ang tag-iya sang tanan nga pagkabutang.
May mga tawo nga gintugyanan nga magaatipan sa iya kag sa iya mga propedad hasta sa tion nga gintalana sang iya amay.
Kita amo man sina anay sang wala pa kita nakahibalo parte sa pagtuo.
Pero sang pag-abot sang tion nga gintalana sang Dios, ginpadala niya ang iya Anak. Natawo siya sa isa ka babayi kag nagkabuhi sa idalom sang Kasuguan
para tubuson ang tanan nga ara sa idalom sang Kasuguan, para mangin anak kita sang Dios sang Dios .
Kag tungod nga kita mga anak na sang Dios sang Dios , ginpadala niya ang Espiritu sang iya Anak sa aton mga tagipusuon. Amo ina nga makatawag na kita sa Dios nga “Amay.”
Gani karon, indi na kita mga ulipon kundi mga anak. Kag tungod nga kita mga anak sang Dios sang Dios , magapanubli kita sang iya mga ginpromisa nga palanublion.
Sang wala pa kamo nakakilala sa Dios mga ulipon kamo sang mga dios-dios nga indi man matuod.
Pero karon nga nakilala na ninyo ang Dios (ukon mas maayo siguro kon magsiling ako, karon nga nakilala na kamo sang Dios subong iya mga anak subong iya mga anak ), ti ngaa nga gusto pa ninyo magbalik liwat sa panguna nga pagtulun-an nga indi man makabulig? Ngaa gusto ninyo nga magpaulipon liwat sa sina nga pagtulun-an?
May pinasulabi pa kamo nga mga adlaw, mga bulan, mga tiyempo kag mga tuig!
Ginahadlukan ako nga basi ang tanan ko nga pagpangabudlay dira sa inyo mangin wala sing pulos.
Wala kamo sing may nahimo nga malain sa akon.
Nakahibalo gid kamo nga tungod sa akon pagmasakit nakawali ako sang Maayong Balita dira sa inyo sa nahauna nga tion.
Kag bisan nalainan kamo sa deperensya sang akon lawas wala ninyo ako pagsikwaya. Ginbaton ninyo ako nga daw isa ka anghel nga halin sa Dios. Ginbaton ninyo ako pareho nga si Cristo Jesus ang inyo ginabaton.
Maayo kamo sadto! Pero ano ang natabo sa inyo subong? Ako mismo makapamatuod nga sang una kon mahimo pa lang, bisan ang inyo mga mata lukaton ninyo para ihatag sa akon.
Pero subong ginakabig ninyo ako nga kaaway tungod nga ginasugid ko sa inyo ang kamatuoran.
May mga tawo dira nga nagapakita nga sila nagakabalaka sa inyo, pero indi maayo ang ila katuyuan. Gusto lang nila nga palas-ayon kamo sa akon para sila amo ang inyo dampigan.
Indi malain nga magpakita sila sang pagkabalaka sa inyo bisan wala ako dira, basta maayo lang ang ila katuyuan.
Pinalangga Pinalangga ko nga mga anak kay Cristo kay Cristo , samtang nagahulat ako nga ang kabuhi ni Cristo makita sa inyo, pareho ako sa manugbata nga nagapasakit.
Kuntani dira ako sa sini nga mga tinion para makapakighambal ako sa inyo sing maayo, kay nagalibog ang akon hunahuna tungod sa inyo!
May gusto ako nga ipamangkot sa inyo nga buot magpasakop sa Kasuguan. Wala bala kamo nakabati kon ano ang ginasiling sang Kasuguan?
Nagasiling didto nga si Abraham may duha ka anak nga lalaki; ang isa sa ulipon nga si Hagar nga si Hagar , kag ang isa sa iya asawa nga si Sara nga si Sara .
Ang iya anak sa ulipon natawo sa ordinaryo nga pagkatawo, pero ang iya anak nga sa iya gid asawa natawo suno sa promisa sang Dios sang Dios .
Puwede ini nga himuon nga halimbawa: Ining duha ka babayi nagarepresentar sang duha ka kasugtanan. Si Hagar nagarepresentar sang kasugtanan nga ginhatag sang Dios kay Moises sang Dios kay Moises sa Bukid sang Sinai. Ang iya mga anak natawo nga mga ulipon.
Si Hagar, nga nagarepresentar sang Bukid sang Sinai sa Arabia, nagarepresentar man sang siyudad sang Jerusalem subong. Kay ang mga tawo sa Jerusalem ulipon sang Kasuguan sang Kasuguan .
Pero si Sara si Sara indi ulipon kag siya ang nagarepresentar sang kag siya ang nagarepresentar sang langitnon nga Jerusalem. Kag siya ang aton iloy tungod kay indi kita ulipon sang Kasuguan tungod kay indi kita ulipon sang Kasuguan .
nga nagapuyo upod sa iya bana.”
Mga kauturan, mga anak na kamo sang Dios suno sa iya promisa, pareho kay Isaac nga natawo tungod nga siya ginpromisa sang Dios nga natawo tungod nga siya ginpromisa sang Dios .
Sang una ang anak ni Abraham nga anak ni Abraham nga natawo sa ordinaryo nga pagkatawo naghingabot sa anak nga natawo paagi sa gahom sang Espiritu Santo Santo . Kag amo man ini ang nagakatabo subong sa aton, ginahingabot kita sang mga tawo nga nagapasakop sa Kasuguan sa aton, ginahingabot kita sang mga tawo nga nagapasakop sa Kasuguan .
Pero ano ang siling sang Kasulatan? “Palayasa inang babayi nga ulipon kag ang iya anak, kay ang anak sang ulipon indi dapat partihan sa palanublion sang anak sang babayi nga indi ulipon.”
Gani mga kauturan, indi kita pareho sa anak sang babayi nga ulipon kundi sa anak sang babayi nga indi ulipon.
Ginhilway kita ni Cristo para indi na kita pag-ulipunon sang Kasuguan ni Moises sang Kasuguan ni Moises . Gani magpakabakod kita sa aton pagtuo sa aton pagtuo kag indi na kita magpaulipon pa liwat.
Dumduma ninyo ini, kag ako mismo si Pablo ang nagahambal sini sa inyo. Kon magpatuli pa kamo bilang pagtuman sa Kasuguan bilang pagtuman sa Kasuguan , ginabaliwala ninyo ang ginhimo ni Cristo para maluwas kamo.
Kag ipaathag ko liwat sa inyo nga ang mga tawo nga nagapati nga kinahanglan nga magpatuli, kinahanglan man nga tumanon nila ang tanan nga ginasiling sang Kasuguan.
Kon nagasalig kamo nga pakamatarungon kamo sang Dios paagi sa inyo pagtuman sa Kasuguan, ti nagakahulugan lang nga nahamulag kamo kay Cristo, kag nagpalayo na kamo sa grasya sang Dios sang Dios .
Pero kita nga ara kay Cristo nga ara kay Cristo nagasalig kag nagapaabot nga pakamatarungon kita paagi sa aton pagtuo kag sa gahom sang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Tungod nga kon ara na kita kay Cristo Jesus, indi na importante kon bala natuli na kita ukon wala. Ang aton pagtuo amo ang importante, ang pagtuo nga makita paagi sa aton aton paghigugma sa aton isigkatawo sa aton isigkatawo .
Maayo ang inyo ginahimo sang una. Sin-o ang nagpauntat sa inyo sa pagsunod sa kamatuoran?
Indi mahimo nga ang Dios nga Dios nga nagtawag sa inyo amo man ang nagpauntat sa inyo sa pagsunod sa kamatuoran sa pagsunod sa kamatuoran .
Inang mga tawo nga nagapatalang sa inyo Inang mga tawo nga nagapatalang sa inyo pareho sang inugpahabok
Pero may pagsalig gid ako sa Ginoo nga ang akon gintudlo sa inyo amo ang inyo nga sundon. Kag ina nga mga tawo nga ara dira nga nagagamo sa inyo, bisan sin-o man ina sila, pagasilutan sila sang Dios.
May nagasiling nga nagatudlo ako nga ang tawo dapat tulion. Mga kauturan, indi kamo magpati sina. Tungod nga kon matuod ina, ngaa ginahingabot pa nila ako? Kag kon nagatudlo ako sina, Kag kon nagatudlo ako sina, ti wala sing pulos ang akon pagtudlo parte sa akon pagtudlo parte sa krus, nga para sa iban kabuangan.
Maayo pa nga ang mga tawo nga nagagamo sa inyo nga nagatudlo nga dapat kamo magpatuli nga nagatudlo nga dapat kamo magpatuli indi lamang magpatuli kundi magpakapon man sang ila kaugalingon!
Kamo, mga kauturan, gintawag sang Dios sang Dios para mangin hilway sa Kasuguan sa Kasuguan . Pero indi ninyo paggamiton ang inyo kahilwayan sa paghimo sang gusto sang inyo tawhanon nga kinaugali. Ang inyo himuon, alagaran ninyo ang isa kag isa nga may paghigugma.
Tungod nga ang bilog nga Kasuguan natingob sa isa lang ka sugo: “Higugmaon mo ang imo isigkatawo pareho sang paghigugma mo sa imo kaugalingon.”
Pero kon nagainaway kamo pareho sa mapintas nga mga sapat, mag-andam kamo kay basi kon gub-on ninyo ang pagtuo sang isa kag isa.
Ang akon buot silingon, magkabuhi kamo nga ginagiyahan sang Espiritu Santo Santo para indi ninyo mahimo ang mga malain nga handom sang inyo tawhanon nga kinaugali.
Tungod nga ang gusto sang aton tawhanon nga kinaugali kontra sa gusto sang Espiritu Santo Santo , kag ang gusto sang Espiritu Santo Santo kontra man sa gusto sang aton tawhanon nga kinaugali. Ining duha nagakontrahanay, gani indi ta mahimo ang aton gusto nga himuon.
Kag kon nagapasakop kita sa Espiritu Santo Santo , wala kita sa idalom sang Kasuguan.
Ang mga tawo nga ang ila lang tawhanon nga kinaugali ang ila ginasunod mahibaluan gid paagi sa ila ginahimo: nagahimo sila sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon kag mahigko nga mga buhat, kag nagapagusto sila himo sang kalautan.
Nagasimba sila sa mga dios-dios, mga babaylan, nagakontrahanay, nagailinaway, maimon, palaakig, dalok, nagabinahin-bahin kag nagagrupo-grupo,
nagahisaay, palahubog, maluyagon sa mga kalibutanon nga kasadyahan, kag kon ano pa ang ila mga ginahimo nga mahigko. Ginsilingan ko na kamo sang una kag subong ginapaandaman ko kamo liwat, nga ang mga tawo nga nagahimo sining mga butang indi masakop sa paghari sang Dios.
Pero ari ang bunga nga makita sa kabuhi sang tawo kon ang Espiritu Santo Santo amo ang nagagahom sa iya: mahigugmaon siya, malipayon, malinong ang iya pagkabuhi, mainantuson, malulo, maalwan, masaligan,
mabuot kag makapugong sang iya kaugalingon. Kon amo ini ang aton himuon indi ta malapas ang mga sugo sang Dios sa aton.
Ang mga tawo nga iya na ni Cristo Jesus, ginlansang na nila ang ila tawhanon nga mga balatyagon kag handom didto sa krus.
Kag tungod nga nagakabuhi na kita sa idalom sang paggahom sang Espiritu Santo Santo , kinahanglan magsunod kita sa iya.
Indi kita magpabugal ukon magpakig-away; kag likawan ta ang paghinisaay.
Karon, mga kauturan, kon may ara sa inyo nga nahulog sa sala,
Magbinuligay kamo sa inyo mga problema. Tungod nga kon amo ini ang inyo himuon matuman ninyo ang sugo ni Cristo.
Kon may ara sa inyo nga nagahunahuna nga daw kon sin-o gid siya, nga sa matuod wala-wala gid siya, ginatunto lang niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Ang tagsa-tagsa dapat gid mag-usisa sang iya kaugalingon. Kag kon makita niya nga maayo ang iya ginahimo, ti mangin malipayon siya. Pero indi niya pag-ikomparar ang iya kaugalingon sa iban.
Kay ang tagsa-tagsa may iya nga salabton sa iya ginahimo.
Ang tawo nga natudluan sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios dapat magbulig kag maghatag sa nagatudlo sa iya.
Indi ninyo pagtuntuha ang inyo kaugalingon. Wala sing tawo nga makadaya sa Dios. Kay kon ano ang ginapanggas sang tawo amo man ang iya anihon.
Kon sundon ta ang aton gid lang nga gusto, mabaton ta halin sa sini ang silot nga wala sing katapusan. Pero kon sundon ta ang gusto sang Espiritu Santo Santo , mabaton ta halin sa sini ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Gani indi kita magkataka sa paghimo sang maayo, kay kon magpadayon kita, magaabot gid ang tion nga mabaton ta ang balos.
Gani kon may kahigayunan, maghimo kita sang maayo sa tanan nga tawo, kag labi na gid sa aton utod nga mga tumuluo.
Sa katapusan, Sa katapusan, ako mismo, si Pablo, si Pablo, ang nagasulat sini sa inyo. Tan-awa ninyo kon ano kadako ang mga litra.
Ang mga tawo nga nagapilit sa inyo nga magpatuli gusto lang nga magpakita-kita sa ila kapareho nga mga Judio sa ila kapareho nga mga Judio nga nagasunod sila sa ila mga seremonya. Kay ginakulbaan sila nga basi hingabuton sila kon itudlo nila nga ang kamatayon gid lang ni Cristo amo ang makaluwas sa tawo.
Bisan sila gani mismo nga nagpatuli wala man nagatuman sa Kasuguan. Gusto lang nila nga magpatuli kamo para may ipabugal sila nga nagasunod kamo sinang ila seremonya.
Pero para sa akon, wala ako sang iban nga ipabugal kundi ang kamatayon sa kamatayon sa krus sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Kay tungod sa iya kamatayon sa krus, ang mga butang diri sa kalibutan wala na sing bili sa akon, kag ako amo man suno sa kalibutan.
Indi importante kon natuli kita ukon wala, ang labing importante amo nga kita ginbag-o na sang Dios.
Kabay pa nga ang tanan nga tawo nga ginpili sang Dios
Sugod subong, indi na ninyo ako paggamuha. Ang mga pinalian sa akon lawas nagapamatuod nga ginasunod ko ang mga sugo ni Jesus.
Mga kauturan, kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon kamo sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Amen.
Ako Ako si Pablo nga nangin apostol ni Cristo Jesus suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios. Nagapangamusta ako Nagapangamusta ako sa inyo nga mga katawhan sang Dios dira sa Efeso, kamo nga mga matutom sa pagsunod kay Cristo Jesus.
Dalayawon gid ang Dios kag Amay sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo! Tungod nga kita ara kay Cristo, ginhatagan niya kita sang tanan nga espiritual nga mga pagpakamaayo. Ini nga mga pagpakamaayo halin sa langit.
Bisan sa wala pa matuga ang kalibutan, ginpili na kita nga daan sang Dios nga mangin balaan kag wala sing kasawayan sa iya panulok sa aton pagpakig-isa kay Cristo. Tungod sa gugma sang Dios sa aton,
ginplano na niya nga daan nga kita mangin iya mga anak paagi kay Jesu-Cristo. Ini suno sa iya nga luyag kag kabubut-on.
Dayawon ta ang Dios tungod sa iya makatilingala nga grasya nga ginhatag niya sa aton bilang pagpakamaayo paagi sa iya hinigugma nga Anak nga Anak !
para maintiendihan ta ang iya tinago nga plano nga gusto niya nga matuman paagi kay Cristo
kon mag-abot na ang tion nga iya gintalana. Suno sa iya plano, gusto niya nga isahon ang tanan sa langit kag sa duta kag ipasakop sa pagdumala ni Cristo.
Ang tanan nga butang ginahimo sang Dios suno sa iya plano kag kabubut-on. Kag suno sa iya nga plano sang una pa, ginpili niya kami nga mangin iya sa amon pagpakig-isa kay Cristo,
para kami nga una nga naglaom kay Cristo magadayaw sa iya.
Kag kamo man nangin ara kay Cristo sang nabatian ninyo ang kamatuoran, ang Maayong Balita nga si Cristo gali amo ang makaluwas sa inyo. Sang nagtuo kamo sa iya, ginhatagan kamo sang Dios sang Espiritu Santo nga iya ginpromisa bilang tanda nga kamo iya na.
Ining Espiritu Santo amo ang kasiguruhan nga mabaton ta ang promisa sang Dios para sa aton bilang iya mga anak, nga maangkon ta gid ang kompleto nga kaluwasan. Kag tungod sini pagadayawon siya.
Gani sang mabatian ko ang parte sa inyo pagtuo kay Ginoong Jesus kag sa inyo paghigugma sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios,
dako gid ang akon pagpasalamat sa Dios tungod sa inyo. Kag ginapangamuyuan ko man kamo permi.
Ginapangamuyo ko sa Dios sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, ang Amay nga makagagahom, nga ang Espiritu Santo Santo ang maghatag sa inyo sang kaalam kag magpasanag sa inyo sang kamatuoran parte sa Dios, para makilala gid ninyo siya.
Kabay pa nga pasanagan niya ang inyo hunahuna para mahibaluan ninyo kon ano gid ang aton ginalauman sa iya pagtawag sa aton nga mangin iya mga anak, kag para mahibaluan man ninyo ang kabuganaan sang matahom nga palanublion nga iya ginpromisa sa iya mga katawhan.
Ginapangamuyo ko man nga mahibaluan ninyo ang gahom sang Dios nga indi matupungan nga para sa aton nga nagatuo sa iya. Ini nga gahom
amo man ang iya gin-gamit sa pagbanhaw kag pagpapungko kay Cristo sa iya tuo
Gani ara sa idalom sang gahom ni Cristo ang tanan nga espiritu nga espiritu nga nagadumala kag nagapangulo, mga espiritu nga espiritu nga may awtoridad kag may gahom. Ang titulo nga ginhatag kay Cristo indi gid matupungan sa sini nga panahon ukon bisan pa sa palaabuton.
Ginpaidalom sang Dios ang tanan nga butang sa gahom ni Cristo, kag ginhimo niya siya nga pangulo sang tanan nga butang, para mabuligan niya ang iglesya
nga amo ang iya lawas. Ang iglesya ang kabug-usan ni Cristo nga amo ang nagapuno sa tanan-tanan.
Patay kamo sang una sa panulok sang Dios sa panulok sang Dios tungod sa inyo mga paglapas kag mga sala.
Ginsunod ninyo ang malain nga pagginawi sang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan. Sang una sakop kamo ni Satanas nga amo ni Satanas nga amo ang hari sang mga espiritu nga nagagahom diri sa kalibutan. Kag siya man ang espiritu nga nagagahom sa mga tawo nga wala nagatuman sa Dios sa Dios .
Sang una pareho man kita sa ila; nagkabuhi kita suno gid lang sa gusto sang aton tawhanon nga kinaugali. Ang handom sang aton hunahuna kag sang aton lawas amo lang ang aton ginsunod. Kag sa sadto nga kahimtangan ta, kaupod man kuntani kita sa ila tanan nga dapat silutan.
Pero maluluy-on gid ang Dios, kag dako ang iya paghigugma sa aton.
Bisan patay kita sa iya panulok sa iya panulok tungod sang aton mga sala, ginbuhi niya kita upod kay Cristo. (Gani paagi lang sa grasya sang Dios sang Dios naluwas kita.)
Kag tungod sang aton pagpakig-isa kay Cristo Jesus ginbanhaw niya kita upod kay Cristo para maghari kita upod sa iya sa langitnon nga ginharian.
Ginhimo niya ini Ginhimo niya ini para mapakita niya sa tanan, sa palaabuton nga panahon, ang iya indi matupungan nga grasya kag kaayo sa aton nga iya ginhatag paagi kay Cristo Jesus.
Ginhimo kita sang Dios; kag sa aton pagpakig-isa kay Cristo Jesus ginhatagan niya kita sing bag-o nga kabuhi, para maghimo kita sing maayo nga mga buhat, nga iya na nga daan gin-aman nga aton pagahimuon.
Dumduma ninyo ang inyo kahimtangan sang una. Natawo kamo nga indi mga Judio; kag ginasiling sang mga Judio nga wala kamo sang relasyon sa Dios tungod nga indi kamo pareho sa ila nga tinuli. (Pero ato nga pagtuli sa lawas lang.)
Dumduma man ninyo nga sadto anay wala pa kamo makakilala kay Cristo. Wala kamo masakop sa nasyon sang Israel, kag wala kamo masakop sa mga kasugtanan sang Dios para sa iya mga katawhan nga ginbasi sa iya mga promisa. Nagkabuhi kamo sa sini nga kalibutan nga wala sing paglaom kag wala sing Dios.
Pero subong, tungod nga kamo ara na kay Cristo Jesus, kamo nga sadto anay malayo sa Dios sa Dios , malapit na subong paagi sa dugo ni Cristo.
Kay siya mismo amo ang nagdala sang maayo nga relasyon sa aton nga mga Judio kag mga indi Judio nga mga Judio kag mga indi Judio . Paagi sa kamatayon sang kamatayon sang iya lawas, gin-isa niya kita kag gin-guba niya ang pader nga nagapaseparar kag nagapaaway sa aton.
Ang pader nga Ang pader nga iya gin-guba amo ang Kasuguan sang mga Judio nga nagalakip sang mga sugo kag mga pagsulundan. Ang katuyuan sini nga himuon niya sa iya nga isa ka bag-o nga katawhan ang duha ka grupo ka grupo para mangin maayo na ang ila relasyon.
Gani karon, bilang isa na ka lawas ang mga Judio kag mga indi Judio paagi sa kamatayon ni Cristo sa kamatayon ni Cristo sa krus, gindula na niya ang aton pagdinumtanay kag ginpabalik na niya kita sa Dios.
Nag-abot diri si Cristo kag ginwali niya ang Maayong Balita nga naghatag kalinong sa inyo nga mga indi Judio nga sang una malayo sa Dios, kag sa amon man nga mga Judio nga malapit sa Dios.
Paagi kay Cristo, kita tanan nga Judio kag mga indi Judio sarang na nga makapalapit sa Amay paagi sa isa ka Espiritu Santo Santo .
Gani karon, kamo nga mga indi Judio, indi na kamo taga-iban nga lugar ukon mga estranghero, kundi mga kasimanwa na sang mga katawhan sang Dios kag mga miyembro sang pamilya sang Dios.
Kita nga mga tumuluo pareho sa balay nga Kita nga mga tumuluo pareho sa balay nga ginpatindog. Ang iya pundasyon nga bato amo si Cristo kag ang iya mga haligi amo ang mga apostoles kag mga propeta.
Paagi kay Cristo ang tanan nga parte sang balay nagaalangot para mangin balaan nga templo para sa Ginoo.
Kag tungod nga kamo ara kay Cristo, kamo nalakip man sa sining ginahimo nga balay nga ginaestaran sang Dios paagi sa iya Espiritu.
Ang kabangdanan nga ako, si Pablo, ginpriso, tungod kay nagaalagad ako kay Cristo paagi sa pagwali nga kamo nga mga indi Judio nalakip man sa pagpakamaayo sang Dios.
Sigurado gid nga nabatian ninyo nga sa grasya sang Dios iya ako ginsaligan nga mangin manugwali para sa inyo kaayuhan.
Nagpahayag ang Dios sa akon sang iya tinago nga plano para sa inyo nga mga indi Judio para sa inyo nga mga indi Judio . (Nasambit ko na ini sing malip-ot sa sini nga sulat.
Kon nabasa ninyo, makita ninyo nga nahibaluan ko gid ang tinago nga plano sang Dios para sa inyo sang Dios para sa inyo paagi kay Cristo.)
Sang una wala gid ginpahibalo sang Dios sa mga tawo ang ini nga plano, pero subong ginpahayag na niya sa iya pinili nga mga apostoles kag mga propeta paagi sa Espiritu Santo Santo .
Kag amo ini ang iya plano Kag amo ini ang iya plano : nga paagi sa Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo parte kay Cristo , ang mga indi Judio mangin kaupod man sang mga Judio nga magabaton sang mga promisa sang Dios, kag mangin miyembro man sila sang isa ka lawas tungod nga sila ara kay Cristo Jesus.
Sa grasya sang Dios, ginhimo niya ako nga manugwali sang Maayong Balita paagi sa iya gahom.
Ako ang labing kubos sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios, pero ginhatagan ako sang Dios sang pribilehiyo sa pagwali sa mga indi Judio sang Maayong Balita parte sa indi matungkad nga pagpakamaayo nga halin kay Cristo.
Ang Dios nga nagtuga sang tanan nga butang wala gid nagsugid halin sang una pa sa bisan kay sin-o kon ano ang iya tinago nga plano. Pero subong ginsugo niya ako sa pagpasanag sa tanan kon paano niya ginatuman ato nga plano,
agod paagi sa iglesya mapakita niya subong sa mga pangulo kag sa mga may awtoridad sa kalangitan kon ano gid ang iya kaalam nga iya ginapahayag sa nagkalain-lain nga paagi.
Ini amo ang iya plano bisan pa sang una, kag natuman na niya ini paagi kay Cristo Jesus nga aton Ginoo.
Tungod sang aton pagtuo kay Cristo kag tungod nga kita ara na sa iya, makapalapit na kita sa Dios nga wala sing kahadlok ukon pagkatahap.
Gani nagapangabay ako sa inyo nga indi kamo magkaluya tungod sang akon mga ginaantos, kay ini para sa inyo kaayuhan.
Makagagahom gid siya. Gani nagapangamuyo ako sa iya nga hatagan niya sang gahom kag kusog ang inyo espiritual nga kabuhi paagi sa iya Espiritu,
para si Cristo magpuyo sa inyo tagipusuon tungod sang inyo pagtuo. Ginapangamuyo ko man nga magpanggamot kamo kag mapundar sa gugma sang Dios,
para kamo kag ang iban pa nga mga katawhan sang Dios makaintiendi kon daw ano kasangkad, kalaba, kataas, kag kadalom ang gugma ni Cristo sa aton ang gugma ni Cristo sa aton .
Kabay pa nga mahibaluan ninyo ang iya gugma, bisan nga indi gid ini maintiendihan sing bug-os; para ang tanan nga ara sa Dios mangin ara man sa inyo.
Dayawon ta ang Dios, tungod nga Dayawon ta ang Dios, tungod nga paagi sa iya gahom nga nagapanghikot sa aton, ang iya mahimo sobra pa sa aton ginapangayo ukon ginahunahuna.
Dayawon ta siya hasta san-o tungod sang mga kaayuhan nga iya ginhimo sa iglesya nga ara kay Cristo Jesus. Amen.
Bilang priso tungod sang akon pag-alagad sa Ginoo, nagapangabay ako sa inyo nga magkabuhi kamo nga takos bilang mga tinawag sang Dios.
Magmapainubuson kamo kag magmalulo sa isa kag isa. Maghigugmaanay, magpinatawaray, kag batasa ninyo ang kakulangan sang isa kag isa.
Tinguhai ninyo nga mapadayon ang inyo pag-isa nga halin sa Espiritu Santo Santo paagi sa inyo maayo nga pag-ululupod.
Kay kita nga mga tumuluo isa lang ka lawas, kag isa lang ka Espiritu Santo Santo ang nagapuyo sa aton. Isa ang aton paglaom, kay pareho man kita tanan nga nagahulat sa iya ginpromisa sang pagtawag niya sa aton.
May isa kita kita ka Ginoo, isa ka pagtuo, kag isa ka bautiso.
May isa lang kita ka Dios kag siya amo ang Amay sang tanan. Siya ang nagahari, nagapanghikot, kag nagapuyo sa aton tanan.
Pero bisan isa kita ka lawas, bisan isa kita ka lawas, may nagkalain-lain kita nga mga buluhaton nga ginhatag ni Cristo sa tagsa-tagsa sa aton suno sa iya gusto.
nagkalain-lain nga nagkalain-lain nga mga abilidad ang mga tawo.”
(Karon, ano ang kahulugan sang, “Nagsaka siya sa langit sa langit ?” Ini nagakahulugan nga nagpanaog siya anay diri sa duta.
Kag siya nga nagpanaog amo man ang nagsaka sa ibabaw pa sang kalangitan
Ang iban ginhimo niya nga apostoles, ang iban propeta, ang iban manugwali sang Maayong Balita, kag ang iban pastor kag manunudlo.
Ginhimo niya ini Ginhimo niya ini para ipreparar ang mga katawhan sang Dios sa pag-alagad, kag para magtubo kag mangin mabakod sila bilang sila bilang lawas ni Cristo.
Sa sini nga paagi malambot ta ang pag-isa sa pagtuo kag pagkilala sa Anak sang Dios, para mangin mature kita sa aton pagginawi kag mangin kaangay gid kita kay Cristo.
Kag kon malambot ta na ini, indi na kita pareho sa bata nga madala sa nagkalain-lain nga pagpanudlo sang mga tawo nga nagadaya kag nagabali sang kamatuoran.
Sa baylo, magsugid kita sang kamatuoran nga may gugma, para sa tanan nga bagay mangin kaangay kita kay Cristo nga amo ang ulo sang iglesya sang iglesya .
Paagi sa iya pagdumala, ang tanan nga parte sang lawas nga amo ang mga tumuluo nga amo ang mga tumuluo nagaalangot, kag ang tagsa ka parte sini nagabinuligay. Kag kon husto ang ginahimo sang tagsa ka parte tungod sa gugma sa isa kag isa, ang bilog nga lawas magatubo kag magabakod.
Gani sa ngalan sang ngalan sang Ginoo,
tungod nga nadulman ang ila pag-intiendi parte sa espiritual nga mga butang. Nahamulag sila sa kabuhi nga ginahatag sang Dios tungod nga wala sila sing kaalam sa espiritual nga mga butang, kay masyado katig-a sang ila mga tagipusuon.
Wala na sila sing huya. Gani nagapagusto sila himo sang kalautan, kag padayon ang ila paghimo sang mahigko nga mga butang nga wala gid sing pagpugong.
Pero indi pareho sina ang inyo natun-an parte kay Cristo.
Indi bala nga nahibaluan ninyo ang parte kay Jesus, kag tungod nga kamo ara sa iya, gintudluan kamo sing kamatuoran nga ara sa iya?
Gani bayai na ninyo ang inyo daan nga pamatasan kay ini iya sang daan ninyo nga kabuhi. Ang ining daan nga pamatasan amo ang nagalaglag sa inyo paagi sa malain nga mga handom nga nagadaya sa inyo.
Bag-uha ninyo ang inyo tagipusuon kag hunahuna.
Ipakita ninyo nga ginbag-o na kamo sang Dios kag ginhatagan sang kabuhi nga pareho sa iya, ang husto nga kabuhi nga matarong kag balaan.
Gani indi na kamo magbutig. Ang tagsa-tagsa magsugid sang matuod sa iya utod
Kon mangakig kamo, indi kamo magpakasala.
Indi ninyo paghatagi sing lugar ang yawa.
Ang nagapangawat indi na magpangawat, kundi magpangita siya sa maayo nga paagi, para makahatag man siya sa mga imol.
Indi kamo maghambal sing malain, kundi maghambal sing makabulig sa inyo isigkatawo kag nagasinanto sa okasyon, para makahatag kamo sing kaayuhan sa mga nagapamati.
Indi ninyo pagpasub-a ang Espiritu Santo sang Dios. Kay ang Espiritu Santo amo ang tanda nga kamo iya sang Dios, kag garantiya hasta sa adlaw sang pagtubos.
Sikwaya ninyo ang tanan nga pagkalain sang buot, pagkamainiton sang ulo, kag ang kaakig. Indi na kamo magpamuyayaw, ukon maghambal sang malain, ukon magdinumtanay.
Sa baylo, magmaayo kag magmalulo kamo sa isa kag isa, kag magpinatawaray kamo pareho sang pagpatawad sang Dios sa inyo paagi kay Cristo.
Tungod nga kamo mga pinalangga nga mga anak sang Dios, sunda ninyo siya.
Dapat makita permi sa inyo kabuhi nga ginahigugma ninyo ang iban pareho sang paghigugma ni Cristo sa aton. Kay ginhatag pa gani niya ang iya kabuhi para sa aton bilang mahamot nga halad sa Dios.
Tungod nga mga katawhan na kamo sang Dios, indi nagakabagay nga hambalon kamo sang mga tawo nga nagahimo kamo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon kag iban pa nga mahigko nga mga buhat, ukon pagkadalok.
Kag indi na nagakabagay nga maghambal kamo sang mga binastos, ukon maghambal sang wala sing pulos nga mga estorya kag malaw-ay nga mga lahog. Sa baylo, maghambal kita sang mga pagpasalamat sa Dios.
Tandai gid ninyo nga indi masakop sa paghari ni Cristo kag sang Dios ang mga nagahimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon, ang mga nagahimo sang mahigko nga mga buhat, kag ang mga mainangkunon. (Kay ang pagkamainangkunon isa man ka klase sang pagsimba sa mga dios-dios.)
Tungod sining mga ginahimo sang mga tawo, ipaagom sang Dios sa ila ang iya kaakig kay wala sila nagatuman sa iya. Gani indi kamo magpadaya sa iban nga nagasiling nga ini nga mga butang indi mahigko.
Indi man kamo mag-upod-upod sa sini nga mga tawo.
Sang una ang inyo hunahuna nadulman pa, pero subong tungod nga kamo sa Ginoo na, nasanagan na kamo. Gani ipakita ninyo sa inyo pagkabuhi nga kamo nasanagan na.
(Kay kon ang tawo nasanagan na, ang iya hinimuan maayo, matarong, kag ginasunod niya ang kamatuoran.)
Tinguhai ninyo nga mahibaluan kon ano ang gusto sang Ginoo nga himuon ninyo.
Indi kamo magsunod sa mga wala pulos nga ginahimo sang iban nga nadulman. Sa baylo, ipakita ninyo sa ila nga malain ang ila ginahimo.
(Makahuluya bisan ihambal ang mga butang nga ila ginahimo sa sekreto.)
Kon hambalan ninyo sila sang ila mga ginahimo, mahibaluan nila nga ina sala gid.
kag pasanagan ka ni Cristo.”
Gani halungan ninyo ang inyo pagkabuhi. Indi kamo magkabuhi pareho sa mga tawo nga wala nakaintiendi, kundi magkabuhi kamo bilang mga tawo nga nakaintiendi sang kabubut-on sang Dios sang kabubut-on sang Dios .
Kalitan ninyo ang tiyempo nga makasugid kamo parte sa inyo pagtuo nga makasugid kamo parte sa inyo pagtuo tungod nga malain ang ini nga mga inadlaw.
Indi kamo magmangin ignorante kundi intiendihon ninyo kon ano ang gusto sang Ginoo nga ipahimo sa inyo nga ipahimo sa inyo .
Indi kamo magpahubog, kay ginausikan lang ninyo ang inyo kabuhi. Sa baylo, magmapuno kamo sang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Kon nagatilipon kamo, Kon nagatilipon kamo, gamita ninyo ang mga salmo, himno, kag iban pa nga espiritual nga mga kanta. Kag kon magkanta kamo sa Ginoo dapat halin gid sa inyo tagipusuon.
Magpasalamat kamo permi sa Dios nga Amay sa tanan nga butang tungod kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Magpasakop kamo sa isa kag isa tungod sa inyo pagtahod kay Cristo.
Kamo nga mga asawa, magpasakop kamo sa inyo mga bana, pareho sang inyo pagpasakop sa Ginoo.
Kay ang bana amo ang ulo sang asawa pareho man nga si Cristo amo ang ulo sang iglesya nga amo ang iya lawas, kag siya man ang Manluluwas.
Gani, subong nga ang iglesya nagapasakop kay Cristo, ang mga asawa dapat man nga magpasakop sa ila bana sa tanan nga butang.
Kamo nga mga bana, higugmaa ninyo ang inyo mga asawa pareho man sang paghigugma ni Cristo sa iglesya. Ginhalad pa gani niya ang iya kabuhi sa iglesya
para batunon ini sang Dios, pagkatapos nga natinluan sang tubig paagi sa pulong sang Dios sang Dios .
Ginhimo niya ini Ginhimo niya ini para ang iglesya mabaton niya bilang iya asawa bilang iya asawa nga matahom gid, balaan, kag wala sing kasawayan; pareho sa nobya pareho sa nobya nga wala sing depekto ukon kurinot ukon ano pa nga mga deperensya.
Gani ang mga bana dapat gid maghigugma sa ila asawa pareho sang ila paghigugma sa ila kaugalingon nga lawas. Ang nagahigugma sa iya asawa nagahigugma sa iya kaugalingon.
Wala sing tawo nga wala nagahigugma sa iya kaugalingon nga lawas, kundi ginapakaon niya ini kag ginaatipan. Amo man ini ang ginahimo ni Cristo sa aton nga iya aton nga iya iglesya,
tungod nga kita mga parte sang iya lawas.
Nagasiling ang Kasulatan: Nagasiling ang Kasulatan: “Bayaan sang lalaki ang iya amay kag iloy kag mag-upod sa iya asawa, kag sila nga duha mangin isa.”
Makatilingala ining madalom nga kamatuoran, kag makasiling ako nga amo ini ang halimbawa sang relasyon ni Cristo sa iglesya.
Gani kamo nga mga bana, higugmaa ninyo ang inyo asawa pareho sa inyo kaugalingon. Kag kamo nga mga asawa, tahura ninyo ang inyo bana.
Kamo nga mga kabataan, tumana ninyo ang inyo mga ginikanan, kay nagakadapat gid ini nga himuon bilang matuod nga Kristohanon.
“Tahura ang imo amay kag iloy.” Amo ini ang una nga sugo nga may promisa.
“Agod mangin maayo ang imo kahimtangan kag magalawig ang imo kabuhi diri sa duta.”
Kamo nga mga ulipon, tumana ninyo ang inyo mga amo diri sa duta nga may pagtahod kag pagkahadlok sa ila. Mag-obra kamo nga hugot sa inyo tagipusuon, kag mag-alagad kamo sa ila subong nga si Cristo ang inyo ginaalagaran.
Gani mag-obra kamo nga hugot sa inyo tagipusuon bilang mga ulipon ni Cristo, nga nagahimo sang kabubut-on sang Dios kag indi nga nagapakita-kita lang para malipay sila.
Himua ninyo ang inyo obligasyon sa maayo nga kabubut-on bilang mga ulipon. Kabiga ninyo nga ang Ginoo amo ang inyo ginaalagaran kag indi ang mga tawo.
Dumdumon ninyo nga ang Ginoo amo ang magabalos sa tagsa-tagsa suno sa iya ginahimo nga maayo, ulipon man siya ukon indi.
Kag kamo nga mga amo, magpasunaid man kamo sa inyo mga ulipon. Indi ninyo sila pagpahugon, kay nahibaluan ninyo nga kamo kag ang inyo mga ulipon may isa lang ka amo sa langit kag wala siya sing may ginapasulabi bisan sin-o.
Sa wala pa ako makatapos, ginabilin ko gid sa inyo nga magpakabakod kamo sa Ginoo paagi sa iya gahom.
Gamita ninyo ang tanan nga armas nga ginhatag sang Dios para makabato kamo sa malain nga mga padihot sang yawa.
Kay ang aton kaaway indi mga tawo, kundi ang malain nga mga espiritu nga nagapamuno nga may gahom. Ini sila nagahari sa kalautan nga ara sa kalibutan, kag ara man sila sa ibabaw.
Gani gamita ninyo ang tanan nga armas nga ginhatag sang Dios, para makabato kamo sa tion nga mag-abot ang kalautan; kag pagkatapos sini mabakod gihapon kamo.
Gani magbato kamo. Isuksok ninyo bilang paha ang kamatuoran. Gamita ninyo bilang panagang nga para sa dughan ang pagkamatarong.
Kag isuksok ninyo bilang sapatos ang pagkapreparado sa pagsugid sang Maayong Balita parte sa kalinong.
Luwas sina, gamita man ninyo sa tanan nga tion ang inyo pagtuo bilang taming, para indi kamo madutlan sang mga temtasyon ni Satanas nga daw sa nagadabdab nga mga pana.
Kag gamita ninyo bilang helmet ang pagkilala nga kamo ginluwas na. Gamita man ninyo bilang espada ang pulong sang Dios nga ginhatag sang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Kag magpangamuyo kamo permi nga buligan kamo sang Dios. Sa tanan nga tion magpangamuyo kamo sa bulig sang Espiritu Santo Santo . Indi gid kamo magpatumbaya, kundi magpadayon kamo sa pagpangamuyo kag indi ninyo pagkalimtan nga sambiton ang tanan nga katawhan sang Dios.
Kag pangamuyui man ninyo ako nga buligan ako sang Dios sang Dios kon ano ang akon dapat ihambal para masugid ko nga may kaisog ang Maayong Balita nga wala ginsugid sang una.
Kay ginpadala ako sang Dios para magwali sining Maayong Balita nga amo ang rason nga napriso ako. Gani kon mahimo, pangamuyui ninyo ako nga may kaisog ako sa paghambal suno sa dapat ko himuon.
Kon parte sa akon kahimtangan kag ginahimo diri, ang aton pinalangga nga utod nga si Tykicus amo ang magasugid sa inyo. Masaligan siya sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo.
Ginpadala ko siya dira para masugiran niya kamo parte sa amon kahimtangan diri kag para mapabakod niya kamo.
Mga kauturan, kabay pa nga mabaton ninyo halin sa Dios nga Amay kag kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo ang kalinong
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon sang Dios ang tanan nga nagahigugma sa aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo sang wala sing katapusan nga gugma.
Ako Ako si Pablo, kag kaupod ko kaupod ko si Timoteo nga kapareho ko nga ulipon ni Cristo Jesus. Nagapangamusta kami Nagapangamusta kami sa inyo dira sa Filipos, kamo nga mga katawhan sang Dios
Nagapasalamat ako sa Dios kada madumduman ko kamo.
Nagakalipay gid ako kada pangamuyo ko para sa inyo tanan,
tungod kay kaupod ko kamo sa pagpalapnag sang Maayong Balita halin sang pagbaton ninyo sini hasta subong.
Nasiguro ko gid nga ang Dios nga nagsugod sa paghimo sang maayo nga butang sa inyo magapadayon gid sa paghimo sini hasta sa adlaw nga si Cristo Jesus magbalik.
Nagakadapat lang nga amo ini ang akon hunahuna kag balatyagon para sa inyo tanan tungod kay ginahigugma ko gid kamo. Kay kabulig ko kamo sa buluhaton nga ginhatag sang Dios sa akon, bisan pa subong nga napriso ako nga nagadepensa kag nagapamatuod sang Maayong Balita.
Makapamatuod ang Dios kon daw ano gid ang akon kahidlaw sa inyo; kay ginahigugma ko gid kamo pareho sang paghigugma ni Cristo Jesus.
Nagapangamuyo ako nga magadugang pa gid ang inyo paghigugma sa isa kag isa, nga may husto nga kaalam kag pag-intiendi,
para mahibaluan ninyo kon ano gid ang labing maayo kag para mangin matinlo ang inyo kabuhi kag wala sing kasawayan hasta sa pag-abot ni Cristo.
Kabay pa nga sa bulig ni Jesu-Cristo mangin matarong ang tanan ninyo nga ginahimo para madayaw ang Dios.
Mga kauturan, gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo nga ang mga nagkalatabo sa akon nakabulig gid sa pagpalapnag sang Maayong Balita.
Kay nahibaluan na sang tanan nga guwardya diri sa palasyo kag sang iban pa nga mga tawo nga ginpriso ako tungod kay ako sumulunod ni Cristo.
Kag tungod man sa sining akon pagkapriso, nagbakod pa gid ang pagtuo sang kadam-an sang aton mga kauturan sa Ginoo. Gani nag-isog pa gid sila sa pagwali sang Maayong Balita.
Matuod nga ang iban nagawali lang parte kay Cristo tungod nga nahisa sila sa akon kag gusto nila nga malabawan ako. Pero ang iban maayo ang ila katuyuan.
Nagawali sila tungod nga ginahigugma nila ako kag gusto nila nga magbulig sa akon kag gusto nila nga magbulig sa akon , kay nahibaluan nila nga ginbutang ako diri sa pagpangapin sang Maayong Balita.
Ang mga nahisa sa akon indi sinsero sa ila pagwali parte kay Cristo, kay ang ila katuyuan para lang sa ila kaugalingon. Ang hunahuna nila nga samtang diri ako sa prisohan madugangan pa gid nila ang akon pag-antos tungod sining ila ginahimo.
Pero wala ini sing kaso sa akon. Nalipay ako bisan husto man ukon indi ang ila katuyuan sa pagwali, basta ginawali lang si Cristo. Kag magapadayon ako sa pagkalipay,
kay nahibaluan ko nga paagi sa inyo mga pangamuyo kag sa bulig sang Espiritu ni Jesu-Cristo mahilway ako diri.
Dako gid ang akon handom kag paglaom nga indi gid ako mahuy-an, kundi pareho sang una, magapadayon ang akon kaisog sa pagwali sa pagwali , agod paagi sa akon kabuhi, ukon sa akon kamatayon, madayaw si Cristo.
Para sa akon, ang akon kabuhi para gid kay Cristo. Kag kon mapatay man ako, may kapuslanan sa gihapon, kay mangin kaupod ko na siya kay mangin kaupod ko na siya .
Pero kon magpabilin man ako nga buhi, maayo man ini kay maayo man ini kay may mahimo pa ako. Gani indi ko mahibaluan kon diin ang akon pilion.
Natunga ang akon hunahuna sa duha: Gusto ko na nga mag-una sa inyo sa pihak nga kabuhi kag mangin kaupod si Cristo, kay amo ini ang labing maayo.
Pero mas kinahanglan nga magpabilin pa ako nga buhi para sa inyo.
Kag tungod nga kombinsido ako nga kinahanglan pa ninyo ako, nahibaluan ko nga magapabilin pa ako nga buhi nga buhi kag magapadayon sa pagbulig sa pagbulig sa inyo tanan para madugangan pa gid ang inyo pagtuo kag kalipay,
kag para kon magbalik na ako dira sa inyo, dako pa gid ang inyo rason sa pagdayaw kay Cristo Jesus tungod sa akon.
Bisan makabisita man ako sa inyo ukon indi, ang importante gid nga ang inyo pagkabuhi suno man sa Maayong Balita ni Cristo, para mabatian ko nga mabakod kamo nga nagaisa sa inyo paghimulat para sa husto nga pagtuo nga suno sa Maayong Balita.
Indi gid kamo magkahadlok sa mga nagakontra sa inyo. Kay kon wala kamo nagakahadlok tanda ina sang Dios sa ila nga sila pagasilutan kag kamo pagaluwason.
Kay ang ginhatag nga pribilehiyo sa inyo indi lang nga magtuo kamo kay Cristo kundi mag-antos man para sa iya.
Karon upod na kita nga nagaantos tungod sa Maayong Balita. Amo ini ang mga pag-antos nga inyo nakita nga akon naagyan sang una, kag hasta subong nabatian ninyo nga nagaantos pa ako gihapon.
Indi bala tungod nga ara na kamo kay Cristo nagabakod kamo? Indi bala malipayon kamo tungod nga nahibaluan ninyo nga ginahigugma kamo ni Cristo? Kag indi bala may maayo kamo nga relasyon sa Espiritu Santo Santo , kag malulo na kamo kag maluluy-on sa isa kag isa?
Gani nagapangabay ako sa inyo: para mangin bug-os gid ang akon kalipay maghigugmaanay kag mag-ugyon kamo. Kabay pa nga mag-isa ang inyo mga hunahuna kag katuyuan.
Indi kamo maghimo sang bisan ano tungod sa kadalok ukon sa pagkamatinaas-taason. Kundi magpaubos kamo kag hunahunaon ninyo nga mas maayo pa ang iban sang sa inyo.
Indi lang ang inyo kaayuhan ang inyo hunahunaon kundi ang kaayuhan man sang iban.
Hupti ninyo ini nga panghunahuna nga iya man ni Cristo Jesus:
nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpamintaha.
Nagpakatawo siya nga pareho sang mga tawo.
bisan pa sa kamatayon sa krus.
kag ginhatagan sing awtoridad nga labaw sa tanan nga awtoridad.
magluhod kag magsimba kag magsimba sa iya.
kag ini magahatag sang kadayawan sa Dios nga Amay.
Mga hinigugma ko, sang ara pa ako dira sa inyo matinumanon gid kamo sa akon. Labi na gid subong nga wala na ako dira, panikasugi ninyo nga igakabuhi ang kaluwasan nga nabaton ninyo,
Kay ang Dios amo ang nagahatag sa aton sang handom kag ikasarang sa paghimo sang iya kabubut-on.
Kon ano ang inyo ginahimo, himua ninyo nga wala sing pagkumod ukon pagbinaisay,
para mangin matinlo kamo kag wala sing kasawayan nga mga anak sang Dios sa sini nga henerasyon nga ang mga tawo ang mga tawo malain kag makasasala.
kay ginasugid ninyo sa ila ang pulong sang Dios sang Dios nga nagahatag sang kabuhi. Kag kon himuon ninyo ini, may ipabugal ako sa pagbalik ni Cristo nga ang akon pagpangabudlay dira sa inyo indi nangin wala sing pulos.
Ang inyo pagtuo pareho sang halad nga ginahalad sa Dios. Kag kon kinahanglan gid nga ang akon dugo iula ko
Gani magkalipay man kamo. Magkalipay kita tungod sining akon pribilehiyo nga mag-antos para sa inyo tungod sining akon pribilehiyo nga mag-antos para sa inyo .
Nagasalig ako kay Ginoong Jesus nga sa indi madugay mapakadto ko dira sa inyo si Timoteo, para malipay man ako kon masugiran niya niya ako parte sa inyo kahimtangan.
Siya gid lang ang akon nahibaluan nga nagadumdom gid pareho sa akon para sa inyo kaayuhan.
Ang iban ya, ang ila gid lang kaugalingon nga kaayuhan ang ila ginapanumdom kag indi ang kay Jesu-Cristo.
Pero nahibaluan ninyo kon paano ginpakita ni Timoteo ang iya maayo nga pamatasan. Daw anak ko gid siya sa iya pag-alagad kaupod ko sa pagwali sang Maayong Balita.
Nagalaom ako nga mapakadto ko siya dira sa inyo sa gilayon kon mahibaluan ko na ang resulta sang akon kaso.
Kag nagasalig gid ako sa Ginoo nga ako mismo makakadto man dira sa inyo sa indi madugay.
Nahunahuna ko nga kinahanglan pabalikon ko dira ang aton utod nga si Epafroditus nga inyo ginsugo diri para magbulig sa akon. Kaupod ko siya sa pagpangabudlay kag pagpangapin sang kamatuoran sa mga nagakontra sini sang kamatuoran sa mga nagakontra sini .
Papulion ko siya dira Papulion ko siya dira tungod nga ginahidlaw na siya sa inyo nga tanan, kag indi na gid siya mapahamtang diri tungod nga nabatian ninyo nga nagmasakit siya.
Nagmasakit siya matuod kag diutayan lang mapatay. Pero ginkaluoyan siya sang Dios kag ako amo man, kay gin-ayo niya siya kag gin-ayo niya siya kag ginhilway niya ako sa puwerte nga kasubo.
Gani gusto ko na gid nga pabalikon siya dira, para kon makita ninyo siya liwat magakalipay kamo, kag indi na ako magsagi palibog.
Kag batuna ninyo siya nga may kalipay bilang utod sa Ginoo. Ang mga tawo nga pareho sa iya dapat padunggan.
Kay diutayan lang siya mapatay tungod sa iya pag-alagad kay Cristo. Nabutang ang iya kabuhi sa peligro para lamang mabuligan niya ako bilang salili
Karon, mga kauturan, magkalipay kamo sa Ginoo! Wala ako ginatak-i sa pagsambit sini liwat sa inyo, kay para gid ini sa inyo kaayuhan.
Mag-andam kamo sa mga Judio nga Judio nga nagapilit nga magpatuli kamo. Daw sa mga ido ina nga mga tawo nga nagahimo sing malain.
Pero kita amo ang may matuod nga tanda nga mga sumulunod kita sang Dios, tungod nga nagasimba kita sa iya paagi sa bulig sang Espiritu Santo Santo kag nagakalipay kita sa aton relasyon kay Cristo Jesus. Wala kita nagasalig kon ano kita sa pisikal.
Kon may ara nga nagahunahuna nga may rason siya nga magsalig kon ano siya sa pisikal, mas lalo ako.
Tungod nga sang walo pa lang ako ka adlaw gintuli na ako. Israelinhon ako, kay sakop ako sang tribo ni Benjamin. Gani kon pagka-Judio ang pagahambalan, matuod gid ako nga Judio. Kon parte sa pagtuman sa Kasuguan sang mga Judio sang mga Judio , gintuman ko gid ini kay Pariseo ako sadto anay sadto anay .
Kon ang kapisan ang pagahambalan, puwerte ako, kay ginhingabot ko pa gani ang iglesya. Kag kon parte sa pagtuman sa Kasuguan, wala ako sing kasawayan.
Sadto anay ini tanan nga butang ginkabig ko nga importante, pero subong ginakabig ko ini nga wala sing pulos tungod kay Cristo.
Indi lang ina, kundi ang tanan man nga mga butang ginakabig ko subong nga wala sing pulos kon ikomparar sa akon pagkilala kay Cristo Jesus nga akon Ginoo. Tungod sa iya ginsikway ko ang tanan, kag ginakabig ko ini nga daw pareho sang basura, para mangin akon si Cristo,
kag ako ara sa iya. Wala na ako nagasalig nga mangin matarong ako paagi sa akon kaugalingon nga paghimulat sa pagtuman sang Kasuguan, kundi matarong na ako sa atubangan sang Dios sa atubangan sang Dios tungod sa iya ginhimo kag paagi sa akon pagtuo kay Cristo.
Ang akon handom subong nga makilala ko pa gid si Cristo, nga maeksperiensyahan ko ang gahom sang iya pagkabanhaw, kag makapakigbahin ako sa iya mga pag-antos hasta mangin kaangay ako sa iya sa iya kamatayon.
Kag sa sini mabanhaw man ako. Kabay pa.
Wala ako nagasiling nga wala na ako sing kulang, ukon perpekto na ako. Pero nagapadayon ako sa pagtinguha nga malambot ko ina, kay amo ina ang katuyuan ni Cristo Jesus kon ngaa ginpili niya ako.
Mga kauturan, wala ako nagahunahuna nga nalambot ko na ang perpekto nga kabuhi. Pero ang akon ginahimo subong, wala ko na ginahunahuna ang nagligad, kundi ginatinguhaan ko gid nga malambot ang akon lalambuton.
Pareho sa isa ka manugdalagan, Pareho sa isa ka manugdalagan, nagapadayon gid ako sa pagtinguha nga malambot ko ang lalambuton, para mabaton ko ang premyo. Ini nga premyo amo ang pagtawag sang Dios sa aton nga magkabuhi didto sa langit paagi kay Cristo Jesus.
Ini nga pagtinguha dapat himuon ta bisan pa nga ginakilala kita nga mga mature na sa pagtuo. Karon, kon wala kamo nagakomporme sini, ipaintiendi ini sang Dios sa inyo.
Walay sapayan padayunon ta ang pagsunod sa kamatuoran nga aton natun-an.
Mga kauturan, sunda ninyo ako. May mga tawo man dira nga pareho gid sa amon ang ila kabuhi. Sunda man ninyo sila.
Kay madamo ang nagasunod kuno kay Cristo pero makita sa ila kabuhi nga nagakontra sila sa mga pagpanudlo parte sa kamatayon ni Cristo sa krus. Makapila ko na kamo ginsilingan parte sa sini nga mga tawo, kag karon nagahibi ako sa pagpadumdom sini liwat sa inyo.
Ang dangatan sini nga mga tawo amo ang kalaglagan, kay ang ila tiyan
Pero kita ya, ang langit amo ang aton matuod nga banwa, kag halin didto ginapaabot ta ang pag-abot sang aton Manluluwas nga si Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Pag-abot niya diri, bag-uhon niya ang aton lawas nga may kamatayon nga mangin pareho sa iya lawas nga langitnon. Himuon niya ini paagi sa iya gahom nga makapasakop sang tanan nga butang sa iya.
Gani mga hinigugma ko nga mga kauturan, magpakabakod kamo sa Ginoo. Ginahigugma ko kamo kag nahidlaw na gid ako sa inyo. Kamo ang akon kalipay kag premyo sang akon pagpangabudlay.
Ginapangabay ko si Eudia kag si Syntique nga indi na mag-away kay mag-utod sila sa Ginoo.
Nagapangabay man ako sa imo subong masaligan ko nga kaupod sa pagpangabudlay nga buligan mo man ini nga mga babayi, tungod nga kaupod ko sila nga nagpangabudlay sing maayo sa pagpalapnag sang Maayong Balita, kaupod man si Clement kag ang iban pa nga mga manugpangabudlay. Ang ila mga ngalan nasulat na sa libro sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Magkalipay kamo permi sa Ginoo. Kag ginasulit ko, magkalipay kamo!
Ipakita ninyo ang inyo kalulo sa tanan nga tawo. Malapit na ang pag-abot sang Ginoo.
Indi kamo magpalibog sa bisan ano, kundi pangayua sa Dios ang inyo mga kinahanglan paagi sa pangamuyo nga may pagpasalamat.
Kag kon himuon ninyo ini, magahatag ang Dios sing kalinong sa inyo tagipusuon kag hunahuna tungod nga kamo ara kay Cristo Jesus, kag ang kalinong nga halin sa iya indi gid matungkad sang aton pag-intiendi.
Luwas sina, mga kauturan, hunahunaa ninyo permi ang mga butang nga maayo kag dalayawon: ang mga butang nga husto, talahuron, matarong, putli, matahom, kag halangdon.
Sunda ninyo ang tanan nga butang nga inyo natun-an sa akon mga pagpanudlo kag mga hinimuan. Kag ubayan gid kamo sang Dios nga nagahatag sang kalinong.
Dako gid ang akon kalipay sa Ginoo tungod nga nadumduman ninyo ako liwat. Nahibaluan ko nga permi kamo nagapanumdom sa akon, pero wala kamo sing kahigayunan sa pagpakita sina sa akon.
Wala ako nagasiling sina sa pagpabati-bati nga may kinahanglan ako. Kay nakatuon ako nga magkontento bisan ano ang akon kahimtangan.
Kahibalo ako magpangabuhi sa tuman nga kaimulon, kag kahibalo man ako magpangabuhi nga sa bugana. Ini tanan natun-an ko agod bisan paano ang akon kahimtangan, busog man ukon gutom, bugana man ang akon pangabuhi ukon indi, kontento ako gihapon.
Masarangan ko nga atubangon ang bisan ano nga kahimtangan paagi sa bulig ni Cristo nga nagapabakod sa akon.
Pero salamat gid sa inyo pagbulig sa akon, sa akon mga palaligban.
Kamo nga mga taga-Filipos nakahibalo nga sang pagsugod ko wali sang Maayong Balita, paghalin ko sa Macedonia, wala sing iban nga iglesya nga nagbulig sa akon mga kinahanglanon kundi kamo gid lang.
Bisan sang didto ako sa Tesalonica, makapila kamo nagpadala sing bulig sa akon.
Ginasambit ko ini indi tungod nagahandom ako nga makabaton liwat halin sa inyo, kundi ginahandom ko nga kamo makabaton man sing balos tungod nga kamo nagahatag.
Karon bastante ako, kag sobra pa gani. Ang tanan nga akon mga kinahanglanon ari na kag wala gid sing kulang, tungod nga gindala na diri ni Epafroditus ang inyo ginpadala nga bulig. Ini nga bulig pareho sa mahamot nga halad nga ginahalad sa Dios, nga iya ginabaton nga may kalipay.
Kag tungod nga kamo ara kay Cristo Jesus, ang akon Dios magahatag sa inyo sang tanan ninyo nga mga kinahanglanon halin sa kabuganaan sang iya manggad.
Dayawon ta ang aton Dios kag Amay hasta san-o. Amen.
Kamusta na lang sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios dira dira nga ara kay Cristo Jesus. Ang aton mga kauturan nga kaupod ko diri nagapangamusta man sa inyo.
Ginakamusta man kamo sang tanan nga katawhan sang Dios diri diri , labi na gid ang mga sakop sa panimalay sang Emperador.
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon kamo sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Ako Ako si Pablo nga nangin apostol ni Cristo Jesus suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios. Ako Ako kag si Timoteo nga aton utod
Kada pangamuyo namon para sa inyo nagapasalamat kami permi sa Dios nga Amay sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Kay nabalitaan namon ang inyo pagtuo kay Cristo Jesus kag ang inyo paghigugma sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios.
Amo kamo sina tungod kay nagapaabot man kamo sang inyo ginalauman nga ginatigana para sa inyo didto sa langit. Ini nga paglaom nabatian na ninyo sang una sang pag-abot sa inyo sang kamatuoran, nga amo ang Maayong Balita.
Kag ang Maayong Balita nga ini padayon nga nagalapnag kag nagauswag sa kalibutan. Kag amo man sa inyo, halin sang tion nga nabatian ninyo kag naintiendihan ang kamatuoran parte sa grasya sang Dios.
Gintudlo ini sa inyo ni Epafras. Palangga namon siya kag kapareho namon nga ulipon ni Cristo. Ginpakadto namon siya dira bilang amon salili
Siya amo ang nagsugid sa amon nga mahigugmaon kamo tungod sa gugma nga ginhatag sa inyo sang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Gani halin sang pagkabati namon parte sa inyo parte sa inyo , permi kami nagapangamuyo para sa inyo. Nagapakitluoy kami sa Dios nga hatagan kamo sang iya Espiritu sang tanan nga kaalam kag pag-intiendi para mahibaluan ninyo sing bug-os kon ano ang iya kabubut-on para sa inyo.
Paagi sini, magakabuhi kamo nga maluyagan sang Ginoo, nga makahatag sing kalipay sa iya. Kag mahimo man ninyo permi ang maayo, kag madugangan pa gid ang inyo ihibalo parte sa Dios.
Kay palig-unon kamo sang Dios paagi sa iya makatilingala nga gahom, agod bisan ano ang matabo makaantos kamo nga may kalipay.
Kag makapasalamat kamo sa Amay tungod nga ginhimo niya kamo nga takos sa pagbaton sang palanublion nga para sa iya mga katawhan, ang palanublion nga ara sa ginharian sang ginharian sang kasanag.
Kay ginluwas niya kita halin sa gahom sang kadudulman kag ginsaylo niya kita sa ginharian sang iya hinigugma nga Anak.
Paagi sa iya Anak gintubos niya kita, nga ang buot silingon, ginpatawad na niya ang aton mga sala.
Si Cristo amo gid ang kaanggid sang indi makita nga Dios, kag siya ang makagagahom sa tanan.
Kay paagi sa iya kag para sa iya ginhimo sang Dios ang tanan nga butang sa langit kag sa duta, indi lang ang makita kundi pati man ang indi makita, pareho sa bisan ano nga mga espiritu nga espiritu nga may awtoridad ukon may gahom, mga espiritu nga espiritu nga nagapangulo ukon nagahari.
Sa wala pa mahimo ang bisan ano nga butang si Cristo ara na, kag paagi sa iya, ang tanan nga butang nahamtang sa ila husto nga lugar.
Siya ang ulo sang iglesya nga amo ang iya lawas. Siya ang nauna, ang una nga nabanhaw
Kay gusto sang Dios nga Amay nga ang iya pagka-Dios makita tanan kay Cristo.
Kag paagi kay Cristo mapabalik sang Dios ang iya maayo nga relasyon sa tanan nga iya ginhimo, sa langit kag diri sa duta. Ginhimo niya ini paagi sa dugo
Sang una malayo kamo sa Dios sa Dios , kag tungod sa inyo malain nga mga hunahuna kag mga hinimuan nangin kaaway kamo sang Dios sang Dios .
Pero karon ginpabalik na kamo sang Dios sa iya kaugalingon paagi sa kamatayon sang tawhanon nga lawas ni Cristo, agod mangin balaan kamo, matinlo, kag wala sing kasawayan sa iya panulok.
Pero kinahanglan nga magpadayon kamo sa pagtuo, nga napundar sing malig-on, kag indi gid ninyo pagdulaon ang paglaom nga inyo nabatian halin sa Maayong Balita nga ginawali sa bilog nga kalibutan. Kag ako, si Pablo, nangin alagad sa pagwali sa sining Maayong Balita.
Karon malipayon ako sa akon mga pag-antos para sa inyo. Kay paagi sa akon lawasnon nga mga pag-antos nagabulig ako nga matapos ang mga pag-antos ni Cristo para sa kaayuhan sang iya lawas nga amo ang iglesya.
Ginhimo ako sang Dios nga alagad para sa mga tumuluo, kag ang buluhaton nga iya ginhatag sa akon amo ang pagsugid sang kabug-usan sang iya pulong sa inyo nga mga indi Judio nga mga indi Judio .
Ini nga pulong sang Dios amo ang iya tinago nga plano nga wala niya ginsugid sang una, pero subong ginsugid na niya sa aton nga iya mga katawhan.
Suno sa iya plano, gusto niya nga kita subong makahibalo na kon ano katahom sang iya plano nga gintigana niya para sa tanan nga lahi sang tawo. Kag ina nga tinago nga plano amo ang parte kay Cristo nga ara sa inyo, nga sa iya may paglaom kamo nga mangin matahom gid ang inyo kahimtangan sa palaabuton.
Amo ini nga ginawali namon si Cristo sa tanan nga tawo. Ginapaandaman namon kag ginatudluan ang tanan paagi sa kamatuoran para madala namon sila sa Dios sa Dios nga wala sing kasawayan sa ila pagpakig-isa kay Cristo.
Agod mahimo ko ini nagapangabudlay gid ako, kag ang gahom ni Cristo amo ang nagapabaskog sa akon.
Luyag ko nga mahibaluan ninyo nga puwerte gid ang akon pangabudlay para sa inyo kag sa mga taga-Laodicea, kag pati man sa iban nga wala pa nakakita sa akon sa personal.
Ginahimo ko ini para mapabakod ko kamo kag kamo kag sila. Gintudluan ko kamo nga may paghigugma, kag ginapaabot ko nga maintiendihan gid ninyo kag mahibaluan ang tinago nga plano sang Dios parte kay Cristo.
Sa kay Cristo natago ang manggad sang kaalam kag pag-intiendi.
Ginasugid ko ini sa inyo para wala sing may makadaya sa inyo paagi sa ila makahalaylo nga mga pulong.
Kay bisan wala ako dira sa inyo, permi ko kamo ginadumdom, kag nalipay gid ako tungod nga maayo ang inyo pag-inupdanay kag mabakod gid ang inyo pagtuo kay Cristo.
Tungod nga ginkilala na ninyo si Cristo Jesus bilang Ginoo,
Magpanggamot kamo sa iya kag magtubo. Magpakabakod kamo sa pagtuo nga gintudlo sa inyo, kag magpasalamat man kamo permi sa Dios.
Mag-andam kamo sa mga tawo nga gusto magganyat sa inyo sa ila mga pilosopiya nga wala sing pulos kag pangdaya lang. Ining mga ginatudlo nila indi halin kay Cristo kundi mga tradisyon lang sang tawo kag mga sistema nga halin lang diri sa kalibutan.
Kay ang matuod, bisan nangin tawo si Cristo, ang bug-os nga pagka-Dios ara iya.
Kag nangin kompleto ang inyo kabuhi
Tungod nga kamo ara kay Cristo, natuli na kamo. Pero indi ina pareho sang pagtuli sang mga Judio nga may ginakuha sa lawas sang tawo, kundi ang malain nga mga handom sang inyo lawas nga makasasala amo ang ginkuha ni Cristo.
Kay ang pagbautiso sa inyo nagakahulugan nga ginlubong kamo upod ni Cristo. Kag tungod nga kamo ara kay Cristo, ginbanhaw man kamo upod niya, kay nagsalig kamo sa gahom sang Dios nga nagbanhaw sa iya.
Sang una kamo nga mga indi Judio nga mga indi Judio patay sa panulok sang Dios sa panulok sang Dios tungod sa inyo makasasala nga kabuhi. Pero subong ginbuhi kamo sang Dios upod ni Cristo. Ginpatawad niya ang tanan ta nga sala.
May salabton kita kuntani sa Dios tungod nga indi ta matuman ang iya mga kasuguan. Pero gindula ini sang Dios paagi sa pagpalansang ni Cristo sa krus, gani indi na kita pagsilutan.
Didto man sa krus ginpierdi sang Dios ang mga espiritu nga espiritu nga nagahari kag may awtoridad, kag ginpakita niya sa tanan nga sila nabihag na niya.
Gani indi kamo magpadala-dala sa mga tawo nga nagasiling sa inyo kon ano ang indi dapat kaunon ukon imnon, ukon ano ang dapat himuon sa mga piesta, kon maglati ang bulan, kag sa Adlaw nga Inugpahuway.
Ang mga pagsulundan nga ina landong lang sang mga butang nga ginapaabot sang una, nga amo si Cristo.
May mga tawo man nga nagapabugal nga nakakita sila sang mga palanan-awon, kag luyag nila piliton ang mga tawo nga magpaubos kag magsimba sa mga anghel. Indi kamo magpadaog sa sina nga mga tawo. Wala sing pulos inang ila pagpabugal, kay tawhanon lang ina nga mga panghunahuna.
Indi nila gusto nga magpasakop kay Cristo nga aton ulo, nga amo ang nagahatag sa aton nga iya aton nga iya lawas sang mga kinahanglanon sini paagi sa mga parte nga nagaalangot, kag sa sini nga paagi nagatubo kita suno sa luyag sang Dios.
Napatay na kamo upod kay Cristo kag nahilway na kamo sa wala pulos nga wala pulos nga mga sistema diri sa kalibutan. Gani ngaa nagakabuhi pa gid kamo pareho sa mga tawo sang kalibutan? Ngaa nagasunod pa gid kamo sa mga pagsulundan pareho sang:
“Indi ka mag-uyat sini,” “Indi ka magtilaw sina,” ukon “Indi ka magtandog sina”?
Ina nga mga pagsulundan nga ginatudlo sang mga tawo himo-himo lang nila kag parte lang sa mga butang nga madula man lang matapos nga kaunon.
Kon hunahunaon ta, daw husto man ang ila mga pagtudlo parte sa pagsimba nga ila naluyagan, parte sa pagpaubos kag pagpenitensya sa lawas. Pero ang matuod, ina nga mga butang indi gid makabulig sa aton sa pagpugong sang lawasnon nga mga kailigbon.
Gani kon ginakilala ninyo nga ginbanhaw kamo kaupod ni Cristo, pasulabiha ninyo ang mga butang nga didto sa langit sa diin nagapungko si Cristo sa tuo sang Dios.
Isintro ninyo ang inyo panghunahuna sa langitnon nga mga butang, kag indi sa kalibutanon nga mga butang.
Kay napatay na kamo sa inyo daan nga kabuhi sa inyo daan nga kabuhi , kag ang inyo bag-o nga bag-o nga kabuhi ginatago na didto sa Dios upod ni Cristo.
Si Cristo amo ang inyo kabuhi; kag sa pag-abot sang adlaw nga igapahayag siya, igapahayag man kamo kaupod niya nga may gahom kag dungog.
Gani dulaa na ninyo ang inyo dutan-on nga mga handom. Indi kamo maghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon ukon sang bisan ano nga mahigko nga buhat. Indi kamo magsunod sa malain nga mga balatyagon sang inyo lawas ukon maghunahuna parte sa sina nga mga butang. Kag indi kamo magdinalok, kay ang pagkadalok pareho man sa pagsimba sa mga dios-dios.
Tungod sini nga mga buhat sang mga tawo, ipaagom sang Dios sa ila ang iya kaakig, kay wala sila nagatuman sa iya.
Kon sa bagay, amo man ina ang ginahimo ninyo sang una sang nagpangabuhi kamo suno sa inyo lawasnon nga mga handom.
Pero karon dapat isikway ninyo ini tanan: ang kaakig, ang pagkamainiton sang ulo, ang pagdumot, ang paghambal sang malain sa isa kag isa sa isa kag isa , kag ang paghambal sang mga binastos.
Indi kita magbutig sa isa kag isa, tungod kay gin-uba na naton ang aton daan nga pamatasan nga malain.
Kag karon nagsuksok na kita sang bag-o nga pamatasan. Kag ini padayon nga ginabag-o sang Dios nga naghimo sini, para mangin kaanggid kita sa iya, kag para makilala ta gid siya.
Sa sini wala sing deperensya, Judio ukon indi Judio, tinuli ukon indi tinuli, bisan indi Griego ukon bisan pa ang pinakakubos sa ila, ulipon ukon indi ulipon, kay si Cristo amo ang tanan kag ara siya sa aton aton tanan.
Kamo mga pinili sang Dios. Ginhigugma niya kamo kag ginpain para sa iya kaugalingon. Gani magmaluluy-on kamo, magmabinuligon, magmapainubuson, magmalulo, kag magmapinasensyahon.
Magmabinatason kamo sa isa kag isa, kag magpinatawaray kon may pagdumot kamo sa isa kag isa, kay kamo ginpatawad man sang Ginoo.
Kag labaw sa tanan maghigugmaanay kamo, kay ang gugma amo ang kabug-usan sining tanan para mangin matahom ang inyo kabuhi nga wala gid sing kakulangan.
Paharia sa inyo tagipusuon ang kalinong nga ginahatag ni Cristo. Kay bilang mga miyembro sang isa lang ka lawas, gintawag kamo sang Dios sang Dios nga magkabuhi nga malinong. Kag magpasalamat man kamo permi sa iya.
Itanom gid ninyo sa inyo hunahuna ang mga pulong ni Cristo. Maglinaygayay kamo kag magpahinumdumanay sa isa kag isa suno sa kaalam nga halin sa Dios nga halin sa Dios . Magkanta kamo sang mga salmo, himno, kag iban pa nga espiritual nga mga kanta, nga may tinagipusuon nga pagpasalamat sa Dios.
Kag bisan ano ang inyo ginahimo ukon ginahambal, himua ninyo suno sa nahamut-an ni Ginoong Jesus,
Kamo nga mga asawa, magpasakop kamo sa inyo mga bana, kay amo ini ang dapat ninyo himuon bilang mga Kristohanon.
Kamo nga mga bana, higugmaa ninyo ang inyo mga asawa kag indi ninyo sila pagpintasan.
Kag kamo nga mga kabataan, tumana ninyo ang inyo mga ginikanan sa tanan nga butang, kay amo ini ang gusto sang Ginoo.
Kamo nga mga ulipon, tumana ninyo ang inyo mga amo diri sa duta sa tanan nga butang, kag indi nga nagapakita-kita lang para malipay sila, kundi dapat tinagipusuon ang inyo pagtuman nga may pagtahod sa Ginoo.
Bisan ano ang inyo ginahimo, himua ninyo sing tinagipusuon, subong nga nagaalagad kamo sa Ginoo kag indi sa tawo.
Nahibaluan man ninyo nga may palanublion nga igahatag sa inyo ang Ginoo bilang balos. Kay si Cristo nga aton aton Ginoo amo ang inyo ginaalagaran.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagahimo sang malain silutan suno sa iya nahimo nga kalainan, bisan sin-o man siya, tungod nga ang Dios wala sing may ginapasulabi.
Kamo nga mga amo, tratara ninyo sing husto ang inyo mga ulipon. Dumduma ninyo nga may amo man kamo sa langit.
Magpangamuyo kamo permi nga may pagpasalamat, kag samtang nagapangamuyo kamo bantayi ninyo ang inyo hunahuna.
Pangamuyui man ninyo kami nga hatagan kami sang Dios sing kahigayunan nga makasugid sang tinago nga kamatuoran parte kay Cristo. Amo ini nga napriso ako, kay ginsugid ko ang parte kay Cristo.
Kag pangamuyui man ninyo nga mapahayag ko ini nga mensahi suno sa dapat ko himuon.
Mag-andam kamo sa inyo pagginawi sa tunga sang mga indi tumuluo. Kag kalitan ninyo ang tiyempo nga makasugid kamo parte sa inyo pagtuo nga makasugid kamo parte sa inyo pagtuo .
Kon nagapakighambal kamo sa ila, gamita ninyo ang maayo nga hambalanon nga mawili sila magpamati sa inyo, kag dapat kahibalo kamo kon paano magsabat sa pamangkot ni bisan sin-o.
Kon parte sa akon kahimtangan diri, ang aton pinalangga nga utod nga si Tykicus amo ang magasugid sa inyo. Ini nga tawo masaligan nga kabulig kag kaupod sa pag-alagad sa Ginoo.
Kaupod man niya ang aton pinalangga nga utod nga si Onesimus. Ini nga tawo masaligan man, kag inyo kasimanwa mismo. Sila ang magasugid sa inyo sang tanan nga nagakalatabo diri sa amon.
Ang akon kaupod diri sa prisohan nga si Aristarcus nagapangamusta sa inyo. Nagapangamusta man sa inyo si Marcos nga pakaisa ni Barnabas. (Ginhambalan na kamo nga daan kon ano ang inyo himuon kon mag-abot si Marcos, gani batuna ninyo siya kon mag-abot siya dira.)
Si Jesus nga ginatawag man nga si Justus nagapangamusta man sa inyo. Ining tatlo amo na lang ang mga Judio nga kaupod ko diri nga nagapangabudlay para mapalapnag ang paghari sang Dios. Nagahatag sila sang kalipay sa akon.
Nagapangamusta man sa inyo ang inyo kasimanwa nga si Epafras. Isa man siya sang mga manugpangabudlay ni Cristo Jesus. Permi siya nagapangamuyo sing hugot sa Dios para sa inyo agod mangin mabakod kamo, wala sing kasawayan, kag kumbinsido gid sa tanan nga kabubut-on sang Dios.
Ako mismo makapamatuod nga si Epafras nagapangabudlay gid para sa inyo kaayuhan kag sa kaayuhan sang aton mga kauturan sa Laodicea kag sa Hierapolis.
Ang aton pinalangga nga doktor nga si Lucas kag si Demas nagapangamusta man sa inyo.
Ipaabot man ninyo ang amon pagpangamusta sa aton mga kauturan sa Laodicea, kag kay Nymfa, kag sa mga tumuluo nga nagatipon
Kon matapos na ninyo basa ini nga sulat, ipabasa man ninyo sa iglesya sang Laodicea. Kag basaha man ninyo ang akon sulat nga ginpadala sa Laodicea.
Silinga ninyo si Arkipus nga tapuson niya ang ginapaobra sang Ginoo sa iya.
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon gid kamo sang Dios sang Dios .
Permi kami nagapasalamat sa Dios tungod sa inyo tanan, kag permi man namon kamo ginasambit sa amon mga pagpangamuyo.
Nagapasalamat kami sa iya Nagapasalamat kami sa iya kay nadumduman namon ang inyo binuhatan tungod sang inyo pagtuo nga maayo nga maayo tungod sang inyo pagtuo sa iya sa iya . Nadumduman man namon ang inyo gugma kay maabtik kamo magbulig sa iban. Kag indi man namon malipatan ang inyo padayon nga pagpangalagad tungod sang inyo hugot nga pagsalig nga magabalik ang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Ini tanan ginahimo ninyo sa atubangan sang Dios nga aton Amay.
Mga kauturan nga ginahigugma sang Dios, nagapasalamat man kami kay nagapasalamat man kami kay nahibaluan namon nga ginpili niya kamo nga mangin iya nga mangin iya .
Nahibaluan namon ina Nahibaluan namon ina tungod nga ginbaton ninyo ang Maayong Balita nga amon ginatudlo. Kag ang inyo pagbaton indi lang tungod nga ginhambal namon, kundi ginpakita gid sang Espiritu Santo nga may gahom ang amon gintudlo, kag nakasiguro gid kami nga matuod ang amon gintudlo sa inyo. Nahibaluan ninyo nga maayo ang amon pagkabuhi sang kami kaupod pa ninyo, kag ato para sa inyo kaayuhan.
Ginsunod ninyo ang amon pagkabuhi kag ang pagkabuhi sang aton Ginoo, kay ginbaton ninyo ang pulong sang Dios sang Dios bisan pa nga nag-antos kamo. Pero bisan nag-antos kamo, malipayon gihapon kamo kay naghatag sing kalipay sa inyo ang Espiritu Santo.
Gani nangin sulundan kamo sang tanan nga tumuluo sa Macedonia kag sa Acaya.
Kay halin dira sa inyo naglapnag ang mensahi sang Ginoo. Ang inyo pagtuo sa Dios nabatian indi lang sa Macedonia kag sa Acaya kundi sa bisan diin nga lugar. Gani indi na kinahanglan nga magsugid pa kami sa mga tawo parte sa inyo pagtuo.
Kay sila mismo ang nagasugid kon paano ang inyo pag-atipan sa amon sang nagbisita kami dira sa inyo, kag ginasugid nila nga ginsikway ninyo ang inyo mga dios-dios para makaalagad kamo sa matuod kag buhi nga Dios.
Ginasugid man nila nga nagahulat kamo sa pagbalik sang iya Anak halin sa langit nga amo si Jesus nga iya ginbanhaw halin sa kamatayon. Siya ang nagaluwas sa aton sa palaabuton nga kaakig sang Dios sang Dios .
Mga kauturan, kamo mismo nakahibalo nga ang amon pagkadto dira sa inyo indi nangin wala sing pulos.
Nahibaluan ninyo ang natabo sa amon sang didto kami sa Filipos sa wala pa kami mag-abot dira sa inyo sa Tesalonica sa wala pa kami mag-abot dira sa inyo sa Tesalonica , nga ginsakit nila kami kag ginpakahuy-an. Pero ginhatagan pa gid kami sang aton Dios sang kaisog sa pagsugid sa inyo sang Maayong Balita nga halin sa iya, bisan madamo nga pagpamatok ang amon naagyan dira.
Sa amon paglaygay sa inyo wala kami sing katuyuan nga tudluan kamo sang sala, ukon maghimo kami sing malain ukon magpangdaya;
kundi ang matuod, nakita sang Dios nga masaligan kami nga magtudlo sang Maayong Balita. Kag amo gid ini ang amon ginahimo, indi para malipay ang mga tawo sa amon kundi para malipay ang Dios nga nakahibalo sang amon mga hunahuna.
Nahibaluan man ninyo nga wala kami naggamit sang mga mabinulakbulakon nga mga pulong para makombinsi kamo, kag wala kami nagtudlo para panguwartahan kamo. Ang Dios mismo amo ang amon saksi.
Wala man kami nagpangita nga dayawon kami sang mga tawo, bisan kamo ukon sang iban.
Bilang mga apostoles ni Cristo, may kinamatarong kami nga magpaabot sang inyo mga bulig kag pagdayaw. Pero sa baylo, nangin malulo kami sa inyo pareho sang isa ka iloy nga nagaatipan sang iya mga anak.
Kag tungod sang amon pagpalangga sa inyo, indi lang ang Maayong Balita sang Dios ang amon ginhatag sa inyo, kundi bisan pa ang amon kabuhi; kay dako gid ang amon pagpalangga sa inyo.
Nadumduman man ninyo mga kauturan nga tudo-tudo gid ang amon pagpangabudlay sang upod pa kami ninyo sang upod pa kami ninyo . Kay sang nagatudlo kami sa inyo sang Maayong Balita sang Dios, adlaw-gab-i kami nagtrabaho para indi kamo mabug-atan sa pagsagod sa amon.
Kamo mga saksi namon subong man ang Dios nga ang amon pagginawi dira sa inyo nga mga tumuluo matinlo, matarong, kag wala sing kasawayan.
Nahibaluan man ninyo nga gintratar namon ang kada isa sa inyo nga pareho gid sang pagtratar sang isa ka amay sa iya mga anak.
Ginlaygayan namon kamo kag ginpabakod, kag ginhangkat nga magkabuhi sing husto sa panulok sang Dios nga nagpili sa inyo nga mangin parte sang iya paghari kag kadungganan.
Permi kami nagapasalamat sa Dios tungod kay sang pagbaton ninyo sang pulong sang Dios nga amon ginwali sa inyo, ginbaton ninyo ini indi bilang pulong sang tawo kundi pulong mismo sang Dios nga nagapanghikot sa inyo nga nagatuo.
Mga kauturan, ang natabo sa inyo pareho man sang natabo sa mga iglesya sang Dios nga ara kay Cristo Jesus didto sa Judea. Kon paano nga nagaantos kamo tungod sa paghingabot sang inyo mga kasimanwa, amo man ini ang natabo sa ila, tungod nga nagaantos man sila sa mga paghingabot sang ila mga kasimanwa nga mga Judio.
Ang mga Judio amo ang nagpatay sa mga propeta sang una kag sila man ang nagpatay kay Ginoong Jesus. Amo man ini nga mga tawo ang nagahingabot sa amon. Wala gid nalipay ang Dios sa ila ginahimo. Ginakontra nila ang tanan nga tawo,
tungod nga ginatinguhaan gid nila nga punggan ang amon pagtudlo sa mga indi Judio agod maluwas sila. Gani hasta subong nagasulubra ang ila mga sala. Ipaagom na gid sang Dios sa ila ang iya kaakig.
Karon mga kauturan, kon parte sa amon, ginahidlaw na kami sa inyo, bisan bag-o pa lang kami naghalin dira. Wala gid kami nalipat sa inyo, gani dako gid ang amon handom kag pagtinguha sa pagpakigkita liwat liwat sa inyo.
Gusto namon nga magbalik dira sa inyo. Labi na gid ako, si Pablo, makapila ka beses nga nagtinguha sa pagbalik dira sa inyo nga nagtinguha sa pagbalik dira sa inyo . Pero ginsablagan kami ni Satanas.
Gusto namon magbalik dira sa inyo Gusto namon magbalik dira sa inyo tungod nga kamo ang amon kalipay kag may pagsalig kami sa inyo.
Kay kamo ang amon bugal kag kalipay.
Sang indi na namon maagwanta ang amon kahidlaw sa inyo ang amon kahidlaw sa inyo ginpakamaayo namon nga magpabilin sa Athens
kag pakadtuon dira si Timoteo sa inyo. Utod ta siya kag kaupod namon nga nagaalagad sa Dios sa pagpanudlo sang Maayong Balita parte kay Cristo. Ginpakadto namon siya sa inyo para mapabakod kamo kag mapalig-on ang inyo pagtuo,
para wala sing may matublag sa inyo sa mga paghingabot nga inyo ginaagyan dira. Kay nahibaluan man ninyo nga ini dapat gid nga maagyan ta.
Sang kaupod pa kami ninyo dira, nagpaandam kami nga daan nga hingabuton gid kita. Kag karon nahibaluan na ninyo nga amo gid ang natabo.
Amo ina nga ginpakadto ko dira si Timoteo para mahibaluan ko kon paano na ang inyo pagtuo, tungod nga indi gid ako mapahamtang; kay basi gintentar na kamo sang manugtentar nga si Satanas nga si Satanas kag ang amon pagtudlo sa inyo nangin wala sing pulos.
Karon nakabalik na diri si Timoteo halin dira sa inyo. Maayo nga balita ang iya gindala sa amon. Nagsugid siya nga ang inyo pagtuo sa Dios mabakod sa gihapon kag nagahigugmaanay kamo sa isa kag isa. Ginsugiran man niya kami nga malipayon kamo permi sa inyo pagdumdom sa amon, kag nahidlaw kamo sa amon pareho sang amon kahidlaw sa inyo.
Gani mga kauturan, bisan madamo ang amon ginaantos, nagakalipay kami tungod sang inyo pagtuo.
Nagbaskog kag nagpagsik kami, kay nahibaluan namon nga ang inyo pagtuo sa Ginoo mabakod gihapon.
Daw ano ang amon pagpasalamat sa Dios sa kalipay nga iya ginhatag sa amon tungod sang inyo pagtuo.
Adlaw-gab-i nagapangamuyo gid kami nga magkitaay kita liwat para makatudlo pa kami sa inyo kag makatudlo pa kami sa inyo kag madugangan pa gid ang kulang sa inyo pagtuo.
Kabay pa nga ang Dios nga aton Amay kag ang aton Ginoong Jesus maghatag sa amon sing kahigayunan nga makakadto kami dira sa inyo.
Kabay pa nga buligan kamo sang Ginoo nga magdugang pa gid ang inyo paghigugma sa isa kag isa kag sa tanan nga tawo, pareho sang amon paghigugma sa inyo.
Sa sini nga paagi mapabakod niya ang inyo mga tagipusuon, kag mangin balaan kamo kag wala sing kasawayan sa atubangan sang aton Dios nga Amay sa adlaw nga ang aton Ginoong Jesus magbalik diri kaupod sang tanan niya nga mga pinili.
Mga kauturan, gintudluan namon kamo kon paano magkabuhi suno sa luyag sang Dios, kag amo gani ang inyo ginahimo. Pero ginapangabay namon kamo, suno sa awtoridad nga ginhatag sa amon ni Ginoong Jesus, nga dugangan pa gid ninyo ang inyo ginahimo.
Kay nahibaluan na man ninyo ang amon mga ginsugo sa inyo nga naghalin kay Ginoong Jesus.
Luyag sang Dios nga ang inyo kabuhi matinlo, gani likawi ninyo ang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon.
Kamo nga mga lalaki, kon magpangasawa kamo, magpangasawa sa diosnon nga paagi nga wala sing may mahambal nga malain ang mga tawo.
Indi kamo magsunod sa inyo unudnon nga mga balatyagon pareho sa ginahimo sang mga tawo nga wala nagatuo sa Dios,
para indi kamo makapamintaha ukon makadaya sa inyo kapareho, pareho sang pagpanginbabayi sa iya asawa. Ginsiling na namon ini sa inyo sang una kag ginpaandaman gid namon kamo nga ang nagahimo sini nga mga butang silutan sang Ginoo.
Kay gintawag kita sang Dios nga magtuo sa iya nga magtuo sa iya para mangin matinlo ang aton kabuhi, kag indi sa paghimo sang malain.
Kon may ara sa inyo nga indi magsunod sa sini nga mga pagpanudlo, indi ang akon pagpanudlo ang iya ginasikway kundi ang iya sang Dios nga amo ang nagahatag sa inyo sang Espiritu Santo.
Karon, kon parte sa paghigugmaanay bilang mag-ulutod, indi na kinahanglan nga sulatan pa kamo, kay ang Dios mismo ang nagtudlo sa inyo nga maghigugmaanay kamo.
Kag amo gid gani ini ang inyo ginahimo sa tanan nga utod dira dira sa bilog nga Macedonia. Pero ginapangabay namon nga dugangan pa gid ninyo ang inyo paghigugma.
Tinguhai ninyo nga magkabuhi sang malinong. Indi ninyo paghilabtan ang kabuhi sang iban, kag pareho sang amon ginsiling sa inyo anay, ang kada isa sa inyo dapat magtrabaho para may kaugalingon siya nga palangabuhian.
Kon amo ini ang inyo ginahimo, indi na kinahanglan nga magsalig pa kamo sa iban para sa inyo pagpangabuhi, kag pagatahuron kamo sang mga indi tumuluo.
Mga kauturan, gusto namon nga mahibaluan ninyo ang matuod parte sa mga nagkalamatay, para indi kamo magkasubo pareho sang iban nga wala sing paglaom.
Nagapati kita nga si Jesus napatay kag nabanhaw. Gani nagapati man kita nga banhawon nga banhawon sang Dios ang mga nagkalamatay nga nagtuo kay Jesus kag kag paupdon niya sila kay Jesus.
Ginasugid namon sa inyo ang suno sa gintudlo mismo sang Ginoo: nga kita nga mga buhi pa sa pagbalik sang Ginoo indi mag-una sa mga nagkalamatay.
Sa sina nga tion Sa sina nga tion ang Ginoo mismo magapanaog halin sa langit nga may pagmando. Mabatian ta ang pagtawag sang pangulo nga anghel kag ang tunog sang trumpeta sang Dios. Kag ang tanan nga nagkalamatay nga nagtuo kay Cristo banhawon anay;
pagkatapos, kita nga mga buhi pa sa sina nga tion sabniton upod sa ila sa mga panganod sa pagsugata sa Ginoo sa ibabaw. Kag mangin kaupod kita sa Ginoo hasta san-o.
Gani palig-una kag lipaya ninyo ang isa kag isa paagi sa sini nga mga pagpanudlo.
Mga kauturan, indi na kinahanglan nga sulatan ko pa kamo parte sa kon san-o matabo ang mga propesiya nga ini.
Kay nahibaluan na ninyo nga ang pag-abot sang Ginoo mangin pareho sa pag-abot sang makawat sa kagab-ihon.
Matabo ini samtang ang mga tawo nga wala nagatuo nagasiling, “Malinong ang tanan kag wala sing katalagman.” Pareho sa pagpasakit sang babayi nga manugbata, hinali lang nga magaabot sa ila ang kalaglagan, kag wala gid sing may makapalagyo sa ila.
Pero kamo mga kauturan, wala nadulman. Gani kon mag-abot ang Ginoo indi kamo makibot pareho sang pag-abot sang makawat.
Kay kita tanan nasanagan na. Wala na kita sa kadudulman.
Gani indi kita dapat magpareho sa iban nga nagakatulog,
Kay ang mga tawo nga nadulman pareho sang tawo nga tulog nga wala nagabantay nga wala nagabantay ukon pareho sang tawo nga hubog nga wala nagapugong sang iya kaugalingon nga wala nagapugong sang iya kaugalingon .
Pero tungod nga nasanagan na kita, dapat magpugong kita sang aton kaugalingon. Gamiton ta bilang panagang sa dughan ang aton pagtuo sa Dios kag ang aton paghigugma sa iban. Kag gamiton ta bilang helmet ang aton paglaom nga luwason kita sang Dios sang Dios .
Kay wala kita pagpilia sang Dios para silutan kundi para maluwas sa silot paagi sa aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Napatay siya para sa aton, agod bisan kita patay na ukon buhi pa sa iya pag-abot sa iya pag-abot , magakabuhi kita upod sa iya.
Gani magpadayon kamo sa paglinipayay kag pagpalig-unanay sa isa kag isa, pareho sang inyo ginahimo subong.
Karon, mga kauturan, nagapangabay kami sa inyo nga tahuron ninyo ang mga nagapangabudlay sa inyo. Ginpili sila sang Ginoo nga magtuytoy kag magtudlo sa inyo.
Gani tahuron gid ninyo sila kag higugmaon tungod sa ila obra. Magkabuhi kamo nga may maayo nga relasyon sa isa kag isa.
Nagapangabay man kami sa inyo nga paandaman ninyo ang mga matamad. Palig-una ninyo ang mga mahinadlukon kag buligan ang mga maluya sa ila pagtuo sa ila pagtuo . Kag magmapinasensyahon kamo sa tanan.
Siguruhon gid ninyo nga indi kamo magbalos sing malain sa naghimo sa inyo sing malain, kundi tinguhai permi ang paghimo sang maayo sa isa kag isa kag sa tanan nga tawo.
Indi ninyo pagpunggi ang ginapahimo sang Espiritu Santo Santo ;
kag indi ninyo pag-ibaliwala ang iya ginapahambal.
Pero dapat usisaon ninyo ang tanan kon matuod nga halin sa Dios ukon indi kon matuod nga halin sa Dios ukon indi . Tipigi ninyo ang maayo,
kag likawi ang tanan nga malain.
Kabay pa nga ang Dios nga naghatag sa aton sang kalinong magtinlo gid sang inyo kabuhi para wala sing may makita nga sala sa inyo, kag kabay pa nga tipigan niya kamo nga wala sing higko sa inyo bilog nga pagkatawo— sa inyo bilog nga pagkatawo— sa inyo espiritu, kalag, kag lawas—para sa pag-abot sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo wala sing kasawayan sa inyo.
Ang Dios nga nagtawag sa aton masaligan, gani nahibaluan namon nga himuon gid niya ang amon ginasiling nga ini ang amon ginasiling nga ini .
Mga kauturan, pangamuyui man ninyo kami.
Bilang mag-ulutod kay Cristo, kamustaha ninyo ang tanan nga utod dira.
Nagasugo ako sa inyo, suno sa awtoridad nga ginhatag sa akon sang Ginoo, nga basahon gid ninyo ini nga sulat sa tanan nga utod dira.
Ako Ako si Pablo, kag kaupod ko kag kaupod ko si Silas kag si Timoteo. Nagapangamusta kami Nagapangamusta kami sa iglesya dira sa Tesalonica, kamo nga ara sa aton Dios nga Amay kag kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Mga kauturan, nagapasalamat kami permi sa Dios tungod sa inyo. Kag dapat gid man nga magpasalamat kami permi sa iya, kay nagadugang pa gid ang inyo pagtuo kag ang inyo paghigugma sa isa kag isa.
Gani ginapabugal namon kamo sa mga iglesya sang Dios sa iban nga mga lugar sa iban nga mga lugar . Ginasugid namon sa ila nga bisan ano nga paghingabot kag kabudlayan ang inyo ginaagyan ginabatas ninyo ini kag nagapadayon kamo sa inyo pagtuo.
Ini nagapamatuod lang nga matarong ang paghukom sang Dios, tungod nga ang mga pag-antos nga inyo ginaagyan para mapalapnag ang paghari sang Dios gamiton niya nga pamatuod nga kamo bagay gid nga masakop sa iya nga paghari.
Kay kon ano ang matarong amo gid ang himuon sang Dios. Paantuson niya ang mga nagapaantos sa inyo.
Kag kamo nga nagaantos papahuwayon niya kaupod sa amon. Matabo ini sa pagbalik ni Ginoong Jesus halin sa langit kaupod sang iya gamhanan nga mga anghel.
Sa iya palibot may nagadabadaba nga kalayo, kag silutan niya ang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios kag wala nagatuman sa Maayong Balita parte sa aton Ginoong Jesus.
Pagasilutan sila sang wala sing katapusan nga kalaglagan, nga nahamulag sa Ginoo kag indi gid nila makita ang iya makatilingala nga gahom.
Ini matabo sa adlaw nga ang Ginoo magaabot kag dayawon siya sang iya mga katawhan nga wala sing iban kundi ang tanan nga nagtuo sa iya. Kamo mangin kaupod man nila, kay nagtuo kamo sa pulong sang Dios nga amon gintudlo sa inyo.
Amo ini ang kabangdanan nga nagapangamuyo kami permi para sa inyo. Ginapangamuyo namon sa Dios nga buligan niya kamo nga magkabuhi nga bagay bilang iya mga tinawag. Kag ginapangamuyo man namon nga paagi sa iya gahom mahimo ninyo ang tanan nga maayo nga gusto ninyo himuon tungod sa inyo pagtuo.
Sa sini nga paagi mahatagan ninyo sang kadayawan ang aton Ginoong Jesus, kag kamo dayawon man niya. Ini matabo tungod sa grasya sang aton Dios kag ni Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Karon mga kauturan, kon parte sa pagbalik sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo kag sa aton pagtilipon sa iya, nagapangabay kami sa inyo
nga indi kamo magpalibog ukon magkabalaka tungod sa mga tawo nga nagasiling nga ang Ginoo nag-abot na. Bisan magsiling sila nga amo ato ang ginahambal sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa ila, ukon bisan magsiling sila nga nabatian nila, ukon nabasahan nila ang amon sulat, indi gid kamo magpati.
Indi gid kamo magpatalang sa ila bisan ano pa ang ila ihambal. Tungod nga sa wala pa mag-abot ang Ginoo, magakontra ang mga tawo sa Dios kag magaabot ang malain nga tawo nga nadestino na nga laglagon.
Kontrahon niya ang tanan nga ginakabig sang mga tawo nga dios ukon ang tanan nga ginasimba sang mga tawo. Kag kabigon niya ang iya kaugalingon nga mas labaw pa sang sa tanan nga ini. Magapungko siya sa sulod sang templo sang Dios kag magasiling nga siya ang Dios.
Indi bala nga ginsugiran ko kamo sang sini nga mga butang sang una sang nag-ulupod pa kita dira?
Kag nahibaluan ninyo kon ano ang nagapugong subong sa pag-abot sang tawo nga ina, gani wala pa siya mag-abot. Pero maabot gid siya kon tion na niya.
Matuod nga subong may mga nagakontra na sa Dios, pero kon ano gid ang himuon sang sadtong malain nga tawo wala pa mahibalui subong. Kag kon ano man ang iya himuon indi pa matabo hasta wala pa makuha ang nagapugong sa iya pag-abot.
Pero kon makuha na, magapakita na siya. Pero sa pag-abot ni Ginoong Jesus patyon niya ining malain nga tawo. Paagi lang sa iya huyop malaglag siya dayon.
Kon magpakita na ining malain nga tawo, gamiton niya ang gahom ni Satanas. Magahimo siya sang tanan nga klase sang mga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang nga daw halin sa Dios pero indi.
Kag gamiton niya ang tanan nga klase sang pagpangdaya sa mga tawo nga magakalawala. Amo ini ang ila madangatan tungod kay indi sila maghigugma sa kamatuoran nga amo ang makaluwas sa ila.
Gani ginpabay-an na lang sila sang Dios nga patalangon kag magpati sang butig,
para masilutan ang tanan nga nagasikway sang kamatuoran kag nagakalipay sa pagpakasala.
Mga kauturan, nagapasalamat kami permi sa Dios tungod sa inyo nga mga pinalangga sang Ginoo. Kag dapat kami magpasalamat sa iya tungod kay ginpili kamo sang Dios nga kabahin sang nauna nga maluwas
Gintawag kamo sang Dios paagi sa Maayong Balita nga amon ginwali sa inyo. Kag gintawag niya kamo para makaambit kamo sa kadungganan sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Gani mga kauturan, magpakabakod kamo kag hupti ninyo sing maayo ang mga tradisyon nga gintudlo namon sa inyo sa pulong ukon sa sulat.
Karon, mga kauturan, magpangamuyo kamo para sa amon nga ang pulong sang Ginoo magalapnag sa iban pa nga mga lugar kag batunon sang mga tawo nga may pagpasalamat sa Dios pareho sang inyo nga ginhimo.
Ipangamuyo man ninyo nga ilikaw kami sang Dios sa mga malain nga mga tawo; tungod nga indi tanan nagapati sa amon ginawali sa amon ginawali .
Pero masaligan ang Ginoo. Siya ang magapabakod kag magaprotektar sa inyo kay Satanas.
Tungod sa Ginoo, nagasalig kami nga ginahimo ninyo kag padayon nga himuon ang amon mga ginasugo sa inyo.
Kabay pa nga tuytuyan kamo sang Ginoo nga makita sa inyo ang paghigugma sang Dios kag ang pagbatas ni Cristo.
Mga kauturan, sa ngalan
Nahibaluan ninyo nga dapat ninyo sundon ang amon ginhimo. Wala kami nagtinamad sang ara pa kami dira sa inyo.
Wala kami nagbaton sang pagkaon halin sa inyo nga wala namon pagbayari. Adlaw-gab-i nagpanikasog kami sa pag-obra para wala sing may mabug-atan sa inyo sa pagsagod sa amon.
Ginhimo namon ini, indi tungod nga wala kami sing rason nga magpangayo sang bulig sa inyo para sa amon mga kinahanglanon, kundi gusto namon nga mangin halimbawa para sundon ninyo.
Sang kami kaupod pa ninyo dira, nagsiling kami sa inyo nga ang bisan sin-o nga indi mag-obra, indi pagpakaunon.
Ini ginasiling namon tungod nga nakabalita kami nga may ara sa inyo nga mga matamad nga wala sing iban nga ginahimo kundi ang pagpanghilabot sa ginahimo sang iban.
Gani suno sa awtoridad nga ginhatag sa amon ni Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, ginasugo namon inang mga matamad nga magpangita sang ila kaugalingon nga palangabuhian, kag indi magpanghilabot sa kabuhi sang iban.
Kag kamo inyo, mga kauturan, indi kamo magkataka sa paghimo sang maayo.
Kon may ara nga indi magtuman sa amon ginasiling sa sini nga sulat, tandai ninyo kon sin-o kag indi kamo mag-upod sa iya, para mahibaluan niya nga indi husto ang iya ginahimo.
Pero indi ninyo siya pagkabiga nga kaaway, kundi padumdumon ninyo siya bilang utod.
Kabay pa nga ang Ginoo nga ginahalinan sang kalinong amo gid ang maghatag sang kalinong sa inyo sa tanan nga oras bisan ano ang inyo kahimtangan. Kag kabay pa nga ubayan niya kamo tanan.
Ako Ako si Pablo nga apostol ni Cristo Jesus suno sa sugo sang Dios nga aton Manluluwas kag ni Cristo Jesus nga amo ang paglaom ta.
Kabay pa nga mabaton mo ang grasya,
Gusto ko nga kon mahimo dira ka lang anay sa Efeso. Indi bala amo ini ang akon pangabay sa imo sadto anay sang nagapakadto ako sa Macedonia? Kay may mga tawo dira nga sala ang ila ginatudlo kag kinahanglan nga pauntaton sila.
Silingon mo sila nga indi sila mag-usik sang ila tion sa mga sugid-sugid sang mga tigulang kag sa pag-usoy kon sin-o ang ila mga katigulangan. Amo ini ang kabangdanan kon ngaa nagabinais-bais ang mga tawo. Kag ang ini nga mga butang indi makabulig para mahibaluan nila ang kabubut-on sang Dios. Ini mahibaluan ta lang paagi sa pagtuo.
Ang katuyuan sining akon sugo sa ila wala sing iban kundi amo nga maghigugmaanay sila. Kag makahigugmaanay lang sila kon matinlo ang ila tagipusuon kag konsensya kag sinsero ang ila pagtuo.
Ang iban dira nagtalikod na sa sini nga mga ginpanghambal ko kag nagsagad
Gusto nila nga mangin manunudlo sang Kasuguan, pero wala gani sila kahibalo kon ano ang ila ginahambal ukon ginapilit nga patihan.
Nahibaluan ta nga ang Kasuguan maayo kon husto ang paggamit sini.
Dapat man naton dumdumon nga ang Kasuguan wala ginhimo para sa mga matarong, kundi ginhimo ini para sa mga malinapason, sa mga matig-a sang ulo, sa mga wala nagakilala sa Dios, sa mga makasasala, sa mga indi diosnon ukon relihiyuso, sa mga manugpatay sang ila amay ukon iloy, sa mga manugpatay sang ila isigkatawo,
sa mga nagahimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon, sa mga nagauluasawa sa ila kapareho nga lalaki, sa mga nagapangkidnap, sa mga butigon, sa mga nagatestigo sang indi matuod, kag sa bisan sin-o nga nagakontra sa husto nga pagpanudlo
suno sa Maayong Balita, ang Maayong Balita parte sa makagagahom kag bulahan nga Dios nga gintugyan sa akon nga itudlo nga itudlo .
Nagapasalamat ako kay Cristo Jesus nga aton Ginoo nga naghatag sa akon sang kabaskog sa pagpangabudlay para sa iya, kay ginkabig niya ako nga masaligan. Gani ginpili niya ako nga mag-alagad sa iya,
bisan matuod nga sang una gin-insulto ko siya. Luwas pa sina ginhingabot ko kag ginpakahuy-an ang mga nagatuo sa iya ang mga nagatuo sa iya . Pero ginkaluoyan ako sang Dios, kay sadto anay wala pa ako nagatuo, gani wala ako nakahibalo kon ano ang akon ginahimo.
Dako gid ang grasya sang aton Ginoo sa akon kay
Ining akon ihambal matuod kag dapat gid nga batunon kag tuohan sang tanan: nag-abot si Cristo Jesus diri sa kalibutan para luwason ang mga makasasala. Kag nahibaluan ko nga ako gid ang pinakamakasasala sa tanan.
Pero ginkaluoyan ako para mapakita ni Cristo Jesus ang iya pagkamabinatason sa tanan, bisan sa pinakamakasasala. Ang ginhimo ni Cristo sa akon nagaserbi nga halimbawa sa iban nga magatuo sa iya kag magabaton sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Kabay pa nga padunggan kag dayawon hasta san-o ang Hari nga wala sing katapusan kag wala sing kamatayon. Indi siya makita sang tawo kag siya lang ang Dios.
Timoteo, ginakabig ko ikaw nga akon anak, gani amo ini ang akon bilin sa imo: Dumduma ang mga ginhambal sang mga propeta sadto anay parte sa imo, agod paagi sini makabato ka sing maayo sa mga nagakontra sa kamatuoran.
Tipigi ang imo pagtuo kag dapat matinlo permi ang imo konsensya. Ang iban wala nagpamati sa ila konsensya, gani nadula ang ila pagtuo
pareho kay Hymeneus kag kay Alexander. Ini nga mga tawo gintugyan ko na kay Satanas para mahibaluan nila nga indi maayo ang mag-insulto sa Dios sa Dios .
Karon, una sa tanan, nagapangabay ako sa inyo nga ipangamuyo ninyo ang tanan nga tawo. Dal-a ninyo sa Dios ang inyo mga pangabay para sa ila nga may pagpasalamat.
Ipangamuyo ninyo ang mga hari kag ang tanan nga may mataas nga posisyon sa gobyerno para magkabuhi kita nga malinong kag matawhay, nga may diosnon kag husto nga pagginawi.
Maayo ini nga himuon kag malipay ang Dios nga aton Manluluwas.
Kay gusto niya nga ang tanan nga tawo maluwas kag makahibalo sang kamatuoran.
Kay may isa lang ka Dios kag may isa lang ka manugpatunga sa Dios kag sa mga tawo. Ini wala sing iban kundi ang tawo nga si Cristo Jesus.
Ginhatag niya ang iya kabuhi sa pagtubos sang tanan nga tawo. Napamatud-an ini sa tion nga iya ginpili.
Gani ginpadala niya ako bilang apostol kag manunudlo sa mga indi Judio para iwali ang parte sa pagtuo kag kamatuoran. Nagasugid ako sang matuod sa inyo. Wala ako nagabutig.
Gusto ko nga sa tanan nga pagtililipon sang mga tumuluo ang mga lalaki magpangamuyo nga may matinlo nga tagipusuon sa ila nga pagbayaw sang ila mga kamot, kag wala gid sing kaakig ukon pagbinais-bais.
Kon parte sa mga babayi, gusto ko nga magbayo sila sing husto kag indi malaw-ay tan-awon. Dapat kon nagapatahom sila, indi sa pagpatahom sang buhok nga nagasulubra na, ukon sa paggamit sang mga alahas nga bulawan ukon perlas, ukon sa pagsuksok sang malahalon nga mga bayo,
kundi paagi sa maayo nga mga buhat nga bagay makita sa mga babayi nga nagasiling nga sila nagatuo sa Dios.
Kag kon may nagatudlo, Kag kon may nagatudlo, ang mga babayi dapat magpamati lang nga may pagpaubos.
Wala ko ginatugutan ang mga babayi nga magtudlo ukon magdumala sa mga lalaki. Kinahanglan maghipos lang sila.
Kay una nga gintuga si Adan kag dason lang si Eva.
Kag indi si Adan ang gindayaan ni Satanas, kundi ang babayi ang gindayaan kag naglapas sang sugo sang Dios.
Pero ang mga babayi maluwas paagi sa ila pagpamata, kon sila magpadayon sa pagtuo, sa paghigugma, sa pagkadiosnon, kag sa husto nga pagginawi.
Matuod ang ginasiling nga kon may ara nga luyag nga mangin manugdumala sang mga tumuluo, maayo nga katungdanan ang iya ginahandom.
Kinahanglan ang manugdumala sang mga tumuluo lalaki nga wala sing kasawayan,
Dapat indi siya palahubog kag indi mapintas, kundi malulo kag indi palaaway. Kinahanglan indi siya dalok sa kuwarta.
Kon parte sa iya panimalay, dapat maayo siya magdumala, kag ginatahod siya kag ginatuman sang iya mga anak.
Kay paano ang iya pagdumala sa iglesya sang Dios kon indi gani siya kahibalo magdumala sang iya kaugalingon nga panimalay?
Dapat indi siya bag-o lang nga tumuluo, kay basi kon magpabugal siya kag pagasilutan pareho sang yawa.
Kinahanglan man nga may maayo siya nga reputasyon bisan sa mga tawo nga wala nagatuo sa Dios, para indi siya mahuy-an kag mahulog sa siod sang yawa.
Kon parte sa mga manugbulig sa iglesya,
kag ginatipigan nila nga may matinlo nga konsensya ang kamatuoran parte sa pagtuo, nga gintago sang una.
Dapat usisaon gid anay ang ila pamatasan, kag kon wala sing kasawayan nga makita sa ila, makaalagad na sila.
Ang ila asawa dapat ginatahod man, wala nagapakalain sa iban, kahibalo magpugong sang ila kaugalingon, kag masaligan sa tanan nga butang.
Dapat isa lang ang asawa sang mga manugbulig sa iglesya, kag dapat maayo sila magdumala sa ila mga anak kag sa ila bilog nga panimalay.
Ang mga manugbulig nga husto ang ila pag-alagad ginatahod sang mga tawo kag wala nahadlok maghambal parte sa ila pagtuo kay Cristo Jesus.
Nagalaom ako nga makakadto dira sa labing madali para magpakigkita sa imo. Pero ginasulat ko pa gid ining mga butang,
para kon maatrasar ako, mahibaluan mo na kon paano magginawi ang mga tumuluo bilang panimalay sang Dios. Kita nga mga tumuluo amo nga mga tumuluo amo ang iglesya sang buhi nga Dios, ang manugsuporta kag manugdepensa sang kamatuoran.
kag gindala pabalik sa langit.
Maathag ang ginasiling sang Espiritu Santo Santo nga sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw ang iban magatalikod sa pagtuo. Magasunod sila sa mga espiritu nga manugpatalang kag sa mga pagpanudlo sang mga demonyo.
Ina nga mga pagpanudlo ginatudlo sang mga tawo nga nagapakuno-kuno kag butigon. Wala sila ginakonsensya tungod nga kontrolado sila ni Satanas.
Ginatudlo nila nga malain ang magpangasawa, kag may mga pagkaon pa sila nga ginabawal. Pero ang mga pagkaon nga ini ginhimo sang Dios para kaunon nga may pagpasalamat sang mga nagatuo kag nakahibalo gid sang kamatuoran.
Ang tanan nga ginhimo sang Dios maayo, gani wala sing butang nga dapat bawalan kon ginabaton nga may pagpasalamat.
Kay gintinluan ini paagi sa pulong sang Dios kag sa pangamuyo.
Maayo ka nga alagad ni Cristo Jesus kon itudlo mo ini nga mga butang sa aton mga kauturan dira. Kag samtang nagatudlo ka sa ila, ikaw mismo nagasagod man sang imo kaugalingon paagi sa mga kamatuoran nga nagahatag sang pagtuo, kag paagi sa matuod nga pagpanudlo nga imo ginasunod.
Pero likawi ang mga pagpanudlo nga wala nagahalin sa Dios kag himo-himo lang sang mga tawo. Hanasa ang imo kaugalingon sa diosnon nga pagkabuhi.
May pulos ang pag-ihersisyo sang aton lawas, pero mas importante pa gid kon hanason ta ang aton kaugalingon sa diosnon nga pagkabuhi, tungod kay kon amo ini ang aton himuon, sigurado gid nga mapuslanon ang aton kabuhi subong kag sa palaabuton.
Matuod ini kag dapat gid batunon kag tuohan sang tanan.
Amo ina nga nagapanikasog gid kita kag nagahimulat nga matudlo ini sa mga tawo, tungod kay nagasalig kita sa Dios nga buhi nga amo ang Manluluwas sang tanan nga tawo, kag labi na gid sang mga nagatuo.
Itudlo mo kag ipatuman ini nga mga butang.
Indi ka maghatag sang lugar nga hikayan ka tungod kay bataon ka pa, kundi maghimulat ka nga mangin halimbawa sa mga tumuluo: sa paghambal, sa pagginawi, sa paghigugma, sa pagtuo, kag sa matinlo nga pagkabuhi.
Samtang wala pa ako dira, gamita ang imo tiyempo sa pagbasa sang Kasulatan sa mga tawo, sa pagpalig-on, kag sa pagpanudlo.
Indi pagpabay-i ang abilidad nga ginhatag sa imo sang Espiritu Santo suno sa ginpropesiya sang mga manugdumala sang iglesya sang pagtungtong nila sang ila mga kamot sa imo.
Himuon mo ini permi para makita sang tanan ang imo pag-uswag.
Bantayi ang imo kaugalingon nga kabuhi kag ang imo ginatudlo. Padayuna ang paghimo sina para maluwas ka pati ang mga nagapamati sa imo.
Indi mo paghambalan sang masakit ang tigulang nga mga lalaki kundi laygayan mo sila pareho nga imo imo amay. Trataron mo ang bataon pa nga mga lalaki pareho nga imo imo mga utod,
kag ang tigulang nga mga babayi pareho nga imo iloy. Trataron mo man ang bataon pa nga mga babayi pareho nga imo mga utod, nga wala gid sing malain nga ihambal ang mga tawo sa imo.
Tahuron mo kag buligan ang mga balo nga babayi nga wala na gid sing may ginasaligan.
Pero kon ang balo may mga bata ukon mga apo, ini sila ang dapat nga mag-atipan sa iya. Kay kon sila diosnon, ang premiro nila nga obligasyon amo ang pagbalos kag pag-atipan sang ila mga katigulangan. Kay ini nagahatag sang kalipay sa Dios.
Ang balo nga babayi nga wala na gid sing may ginasaligan nagasalig na lang gid sa Dios. Adlaw-gab-i nagapangamuyo siya kag nagapangayo bulig sa Dios.
Pero ang balo nga babayi nga nagapagusto sa kalibutanon nga pagpangalipay patay na sa panulok sang Dios sa panulok sang Dios bisan buhi pa siya.
Ipatuman mo sa mga tumuluo ini nga mga butang para wala sing may ihambal nga malain kontra sa ila.
Ang bisan sin-o nga tumuluo nga tumuluo nga wala nagaatipan sa iya mga paryente, labi na gid sa iya pamilya, nagapakilala lang nga ginabaliwala niya ang iya pagtuo sa Dios, kag mas malain pa siya sang sa indi tumuluo.
Dapat buligan ninyo ang mga balo nga babayi nga nagaedad 60 paibabaw, wala nagpanginlalaki,
kilala nga maayo ang ila mga ginahimo, maayo ang ila pag-atipan sa ila mga anak, maabiabihon sa mga pangayaw, nagaalagad sa mga katawhan sang Dios,
Pero indi ninyo pag-ilakip sa mga balo nga bululigan ang mga balo nga bataon pa. Kay kon mag-abot ang ila gusto nga magpamana liwat, mapatumbayaan nila ang pag-alagad kay Cristo.
Gani makasala sila tungod kay ibaliwala nila ang ila promisa nga mag-alagad na lang kay Cristo nga mag-alagad na lang kay Cristo .
Luwas sina, magatinamad ang mga balo nga bataon pa kag magasagi na lang pamalay-balay. Kag ang malain pa gid, magakutsokutso kag magapasilabot sila sa iban, kag magaestorya sang mga butang nga indi dapat estoryahan.
Gani kon sa akon lang, kon amo ini ang matabo, maayo pa nga ang mga balo nga ini nga bataon pa magpamana na lang liwat kag magpamata, kag mag-atipan sang ila pamilya, para wala sing ihambal ang mga tawo nga nagakontra sa aton.
Nagasiling ako sini tungod kay may iban nga mga balo nga nagtalikod na gani sa pagtuo sa pagtuo kag nagsunod na kay Satanas.
Kon may babayi nga tumuluo nga may paryente nga mga balo, dapat siya na lang ang mag-atipan sa ila para indi na mabug-atan ang iglesya sa pagsagod sa ila, kag maatipanan pa sang iglesya ang mga balo nga wala na gid sing may ginasaligan.
Kon parte sa mga manugdumala sang iglesya nga maayo ang ila pagdumala, dapat suwelduhan sila sing husto, labi na gid kon nagapangabudlay sila sa pagwali kag pagtudlo.
Kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Indi pagbusali ang baka samtang nagalinas ini.
Indi pagsapaka ang mga akusasyon kontra sa mga manugdumala, luwas kon may duha ukon tatlo ka testigo nga nagapamatuod.
Pero sabdunga sa atubangan sang mga tumuluo ang nagapakasala para mahadlukan ang iban nga maghimo sang sala.
Sa atubangan sang Dios kag ni Cristo Jesus kag sang iya pinili nga mga anghel, ginabilin ko sa imo nga tumanon mo gid ini nga mga sugo nga wala sing may ginapaburan. Kinahanglan gid nga sa tanan mo nga ginahimo, pareho ang imo pagtratar sa tanan.
Indi ka magdali-dali tungtong sang imo kamot sa bisan kay sin-o,
Tungod kay permi ka lang nagamasakit, luwas sa tubig, mag-inom ka man sang diutay nga bino para sa imo tiyan.
May mga tawo nga bisan wala pa sila masentensyahan nahibaluan na nga daan ang ila mga sala. Pero ang iban ya ulihi na lang mahibaluan.
Amo man kon maayo ang aton ginahimo. May mga ginahimo kita nga maayo nga mahibaluan dayon, kag may ara man nga indi mahibaluan dayon pero sa ulihi mahibaluan gid man.
Kon parte sa mga tumuluo nga ulipon, dapat tahuron nila ang ila mga amo, para wala sing may magpakalain sa Dios kag sa aton mga pagpanudlo.
Itudlo mo ini sa ila kag silingon sila nga tumanon gid nila.
Kon may ara nga lain ang iya ginatudlo kag wala nagakomporme sa husto nga mga pagpanudlo nga halin sa aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, kag wala nagakomporme sa mga pagpanudlo parte sa diosnon nga pagkabuhi,
ina nga tawo bugalon pero wala sing may nahibaluan. Gusto lang niya nga magdiskusyon sang wala sing pulos. Kag amo ini ang ginahalinan sang kahisa, pag-inaway, pag-insultuhanay, pagsuspetsahanay,
kag wala untat nga ginamo. Amo ina ang batasan sang mga tawo nga wala na sing husto nga panghunahuna kag indi na makahibalo kon ano ang matarong. Nagapinsar sila nga makamanggad sila paagi sa ila pagkadiosnon.
Kon sa bagay, kon ang tawo diosnon kag kontento sa iya pagkabutang, labaw pa siya sa manggaranon.
Ang matuod, sang pagkatawo ta diri sa kalibutan wala kita sing may gindala, kag kon mapatay kita, wala man kita sing may madala halin sa kalibutan.
Gani, kon may pagkaon kita kag may bayo, dapat kontento na kita.
Pero ang mga tawo nga gusto magmanggaranon indi mahimo nga indi mahulog sa mga temtasyon. Masiod sila sa mga wala sing pulos kag malain nga mga handom nga amo ang nagaguba kag nagadala sa mga tawo sa kalaglagan.
Kay ang paghigugma sa kuwarta amo ang ginahalinan sang tanan nga klase sang kalainan. Ang iban nga mga tawo, sa sobra nga handom sang kuwarta, nagtalang na sa pagtuo kag napuno sang kalisod ang ila tagipusuon.
Pero ikaw, bilang alagad sang Dios, likawi ina nga mga butang. Himulati nga magkabuhi nga matarong, diosnon, may pagtuo, mahigugmaon, mainantuson, kag malulo.
Magpakigbato ka sing maayo para sa pagtuo. Hupti sing maayo ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan, tungod kay sa kabuhi nga ina gintawag ka sang Dios sadtong pagsugid mo sa atubangan sang madamo nga tawo nga ikaw nagatuo na kay Cristo.
Sa atubangan sang Dios nga nagahatag sang kabuhi sa tanan, kag sa atubangan ni Cristo Jesus nga nagsugid sang kamatuoran kay Poncio Pilato, ari ang akon sugo sa imo:
tumana ang ginabilin sa imo nga sugo kag siguraduhon mo nga husto gid ang imo pagtuman nga wala sing kasawayan hasta mag-abot ang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Kon parte sa pag-abot ni Jesu-Cristo, ipakita siya sang makagagahom kag bulahan nga Dios sa natalana nga tion. Ang Dios amo ang Hari nga labaw sa tanan nga hari kag Ginoo nga labaw sa tanan nga ginoo.
Sa iya lang ang kabuhi nga wala sing kamatayon.
Kon parte sa mga manggaranon sa sini nga panahon, silingon mo sila nga indi sila magpabugal ukon magsalig sa ila manggad nga madali man lang madula. Dapat ibutang nila ang ila pagsalig sa Dios nga nagahatag sang tanan nga butang para mangin malipayon kita.
Tudlui sila nga maghimo sing maayo para mangin manggaranon sila sa maayo nga mga buhat. Tudlui man sila nga mangin mabinuligon kag maalwan sa pagpakig-ambit sang ila mga pagkabutang.
Kon amo ini ang ila himuon, nagatipon sila sang manggad para sa ila kaugalingon nga mangin maayo nga pundasyon sang ila kabuhi sa palaabuton, kag makabaton sila sang matuod gid nga kabuhi.
Timoteo, tipigi ang mga pagpanudlo nga mga pagpanudlo nga gintugyan sa imo sang Dios. Likawi ang mga pagpanudlo nga wala sing pulos kag wala nagahalin sa Dios pati ang mga pagdiskusyon parte sa ginasiling sang iban nga kaalam (pero ang matuod, indi) nga wala nagasinanto.
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Dios sang Dios .
Ako Ako si Pablo nga nangin apostol ni Cristo Jesus suno sa kabubut-on sang Dios. Ginpadala niya ako para ibalita ang parte sa kabuhi nga iya ginpromisa nga mabaton sang mga ara kay Cristo Jesus.
Nagapasalamat ako sa Dios nga gin-alagaran sang aton mga katigulangan, kag amo man ang akon ginaalagaran nga may matinlo nga konsensya. Nagapasalamat ako sa iya Nagapasalamat ako sa iya sa akon pagdumdom sa imo permi sa akon pagpangamuyo adlaw-gab-i.
Kon madumduman ko ang imo mga paghibi sang akon paghalin sang akon paghalin , ginahidlaw ako sa imo. Luyag ko nga magkitaay kita liwat para malipay gid ako.
Indi ko malipatan ang imo sinsero nga pagtuo, pareho sang pagtuo sang imo lola nga si Luisa kag sang imo iloy nga si Eunice nga nauna nga nagtuo sang sa imo, kag nasiguro ko nga ara man sa imo ang ila pagtuo.
Amo ina nga luyag ko nga padumdumon ka nga magmapisan ka sa paggamit sang abilidad nga ginhatag sang Dios sa imo sang gintungtungan ko ikaw sang akon mga kamot.
Kay ang Dios wala naghatag sa aton sang iya iya Espiritu para mahuya kita nga mag-atubang sa mga tawo, kundi para magbakod kita kag makatuon nga maghigugma sa iban sa iban kag makadisiplina sang aton kaugalingon.
Gani indi ka magkahuya nga magsugid sa iban parte sa aton Ginoo. Kag indi ka man magkahuya nga napriso ako diri tungod sa iya, kundi sa bulig sang gahom sang Dios, mag-ambit ka sa mga pag-antos tungod sa Maayong Balita.
Gintawag niya kita kag ginluwas para mangin iya. Ini wala niya paghimua tungod kay maayo ang aton mga binuhatan, kundi tungod sa iya kaugalingon nga katuyuan kag grasya. Sa wala pa ang kalibutan, ginhatag na niya ini nga grasya sa aton paagi kay Cristo Jesus.
Pero subong lang ini ginpahayag sa aton sang pag-abot ni Cristo Jesus nga aton Manluluwas. Gindula niya ang gahom sang kamatayon kag ginpahayag niya sa aton paagi sa Maayong Balita nga makaangkon kita sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Kag ginhimo ako sang Dios sang Dios nga apostol kag manunudlo para magsugid sining Maayong Balita.
Amo ini ang kabangdanan nga nagaantos ako subong. Pero wala ko ginakahuya ang natabo nga ini sa akon tungod kay kilala ko si Cristo nga akon ginasaligan, kag nasiguro ko gid nga sarang siya makatipig sang gintugyan niya sa akon
Ang husto nga pagpanudlo nga imo natun-an sa akon amo ang imo dapat itudlo, nga may pagtuo kag paghigugma, tungod nga amo gid ina ang dapat ta himuon bilang ara na kay Cristo Jesus.
Paagi sa bulig sang Espiritu Santo nga nagapuyo sa aton, tipigi ang maayo nga pagpanudlo nga gintugyan sa imo.
Nahibaluan mo nga ginsikway ako sang halos tanan nga tumuluo sa probinsya sang probinsya sang Asia. Pati si Figelus kag si Hermogenes nagbiya sa akon.
Pero kabay pa nga kaluoyan gid sang Ginoo si Onesiforus kag ang iya pamilya, kay ginpabaskog
Pag-abot niya gani sa Roma, wala untat ang pagpangita niya sa akon hasta nga nakita niya ako.
Kag nahibaluan mo man kon paano ang pagbulig niya sa akon sang didto pa ako sa Efeso. Kabay pa nga kaluoyan siya sang Ginoo kon mag-abot na ang adlaw nga ang mga tawo sentensyahan sang Dios.
Ikaw Timoteo, nga bilang bilang akon anak, magpakabakod ka sa bulig sang Dios. Ini nga bulig mabaton mo tungod kay ikaw ara na kay Cristo Jesus.
Ang mga pagpanudlo nga nabatian mo sa akon sa atubangan sang madamo nga testigo itudlo mo man sa mga tawo nga masaligan, nga makatudlo man sa iban.
Mag-ambit ka sa mga pag-antos bilang maayo nga soldado ni Cristo Jesus.
Kag dapat Kag dapat pareho ka ka sa soldado nga sa serbisyo nga wala nahigot sa iban pa nga mga obra para mapalipay niya ang iya opisyal.
Dapat Dapat pareho ka man ka man sa manugdalagan; indi siya makakuha sang premyo kon wala siya nagasunod sa mga pagsulundan sa palumba.
Kag dapat Kag dapat pareho ka man ka man sa mangunguma nga nagapangabudlay. Kay indi bala ang mangunguma ang una nga makaambit sang iya patubas?
Hunahunaa sing maayo ining akon mga ginasiling, kag buligan ka gid sang Ginoo para maintiendihan mo ini tanan.
Dumduma ang Maayong Balita nga akon ginatudlo parte kay Jesu-Cristo nga nabanhaw, nga kaliwat ni David.
Tungod sa akon pagwali sang Maayong Balita nagaantos ako. Kag ginakadenahan pa ako pareho sang kriminal. Pero ang pulong sang Dios wala makadenahi.
Gani ginabatas ko ang tanan para sa mga pinili sang Dios sang Dios , para maluwas man sila paagi kay Cristo Jesus kag makaangkon sang maayo gid nga kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
sigurado gid nga mabuhi man kita kaupod niya.
ipanginwala man niya kita.
kay indi mahimo nga indi niya pagtumanon ang iya ginahambal.”
Sa atubangan sang Dios ipadumdom mo gid sa ila ining mga butang, kag paandaman mo sila nga likawan nila ang wala sing pulos nga mga pagdiskusyon. Wala sila sing may makuha sa sina nga mga butang kundi nagapaguba lang sang pagtuo sang mga nagapamati.
Himua ang imo masarangan para malipay ang Dios sa imo, nga pareho sa manugpangabudlay nga wala nagakahuya sa iya mga ginahimo. Itudlo mo sang husto ang pulong sang Dios nga amo ang kamatuoran.
Likawi ang mga pagpanudlo nga wala sing pulos kag wala nagahalin sa Dios, tungod kay ina nagapapalayo lang sa mga tawo sa Dios.
Ang ila mga pagpanudlo pareho sang balatian nga kanser nga nagalapta kag nagaguba sang bilog nga lawas nga nagalapta kag nagaguba sang bilog nga lawas . Kaupod sang mga tawo nga nagatudlo sina amo si Hymeneus kag si Filetus.
Nagpalayo sila sa kamatuoran kay nagasiling sila nga ang aton pagkabanhaw natabo na kag wala na sing pagkabanhaw sa palaabuton kag wala na sing pagkabanhaw sa palaabuton . Gani ginaguba nila ang pagtuo sang iban.
Pero bisan amo ina, mabakod gihapon ang pundasyon nga ginpatindog sang Dios, tungod kay may nakasulat nga nagasiling, “Nakilala sang Ginoo kon sin-o ang iya mga tawo.”
Sa mga balay nga dalagko may sari-sari nga mga galamiton. May mga ginhimo sa bulawan, pilak,
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagalikaw sa mga kalautan amo ang makabig nga mga galamiton nga malahalon nga ginpain para gamiton kag mapuslan sang Ginoo, kag sarang niya nga gamiton para sa kaayuhan sa bisan ano nga oras.
Gani likawi gid ang malain nga mga handom sang mga pamatan-on. Himulati nga mangin matarong ang imo kabuhi, masaligan, mahigugmaon, kag maayo ang imo relasyon sa iban, kaupod sang mga tawo nga nagadangop sa Ginoo nga may matinlo nga tagipusuon.
Likawi ang wala sing pulos kag binuang nga mga pagdiskusyon, tungod kay nahibaluan mo nga ang resulta sina amo ang pag-ilinaway.
Indi dapat magpangaway ang ulipon sang Ginoo, kundi dapat mabuot siya sa tanan, maayo magtudlo, kag wala nagadumot.
Kinahanglan malulo siya sa pagtudlo sa mga nagakontra sa iya, kay basi pa lang sa sina nga paagi hatagan sila sang Dios sing kahigayunan nga maghinulsol para mahibaluan nila ang kamatuoran.
Kag masanagan ang ila mga hunahuna kag makapalagyo sila sa siod sang yawa nga nagbihag sa ila para magsunod sa iya gusto.
Tandai ini: mangin mabudlay gid sa katapusan nga mga inadlaw.
Kay ang mga tawo mangin maiyaiyahon, mahigugmaon sa kuwarta, tikalon, bugalon, magahambal sing malain kontra sa ila isigkatawo kag sa Dios, indi magpati sa ila mga ginikanan, indi mapinasalamaton, kag indi diosnon.
Luwas sina wala sila pasunaid sa ila isigkatawo; wala sila luyag nga magpakighusay sa ila kontra; ginapakalain nila ang iban; indi sila makapugong sang ila kaugalingon, mapintas, kag kontra sa bisan ano nga maayo.
Mangin traidor sila, dasodaso, kag magapadayaw sang ila kaugalingon. Palabihon pa nila ang mga kalipay nga iya sang kalibutan sang sa Dios.
Magapakita-kita sila nga sila diosnon pero isikway nila ang gahom sang Dios. Likawi ang mga tawo nga pareho sina.
Ang iban sa ila nagahimo sing paagi nga makasulod sa mga balay para tuntuhon ang mga maluya nga mga babayi nga nabuyo na gid sa pagpakasala kag ulipon na sang sari-sari nga mga balatyagon nga malain.
Ina nga mga babayi sige ang ila tuon pero indi sila makaintiendi sang kamatuoran.
Ang mga lalaki nga nagatudlo sa ila sang sala nga pagpanudlo nagakontra sa kamatuoran pareho sang pagkontra ni Janes kag ni Jambres kay Moises sadto anay. Indi husto ang hunahuna sang sini nga mga lalaki, kag ang ila ginasiling nga pagtuo wala sing pulos.
Pero indi sila makapadayon sa ila ginahimo nga ina tungod nga makita gid sang tanan ang ila kabuangan, pareho sa natabo kay Janes kag Jambres.
Pero ikaw ya Timoteo Timoteo , naobserbaran mo ang akon mga pagpanudlo, ang akon pamatasan, kag ang akon katuyuan sa kabuhi sa kabuhi . Naobserbaran mo man ang akon pagtuo sa Dios sa Dios , ang akon pagpasensya kag paghigugma sa mga tawo sa mga tawo , kag kon paano ko ginbatas ang mga kabudlayan.
Nahibaluan mo ang akon mga pag-antos sang didto ako sa Antioc, sa Iconium, kag sa Lystra, kag kon paano ko ginbatas ang mga paghingabot. Pero sa sina nga tanan ginluwas ako sang Ginoo.
Ang matuod, ang tanan nga luyag magkabuhi sang diosnon nga kabuhi bilang sumulunod ni Cristo Jesus magaagi gid sa mga paghingabot.
Pero ang mga tawo nga malain kag nagapatalang sa iban magalain kag magatalang pa gid, kag sila mismo patalangon man.
Pero ikaw ya magpadayon gid sa mga kamatuoran nga imo natun-an kag ginatuohan, tungod kay nahibaluan mo man kon sin-o ang mga nagtudlo sa imo.
Halin sang bata ka pa nahibaluan mo ang Balaan nga Kasulatan, kag ina makahatag sa imo sang kaalam sa pag-angkon sang kaluwasan paagi sa pagtuo kay Cristo Jesus.
Ang bilog nga Kasulatan ginsulat paagi sa gahom sang Dios, kag mapuslanon sa pagtudlo, sa pagsabdong, sa pagtadlong sang sala, kag sa paghanas sa matarong nga pagkabuhi,
para ang tawo nga nagaalagad sa Dios matudluan sa paghimo sang tanan nga klase sang kaayuhan.
Gani sa presensya sang Dios kag ni Cristo Jesus may ibilin ako sa imo. Magabalik siya kag magahari, kag magahukom sa tanan nga tawo, buhi man ukon patay. Amo ina nga ginabilinan ko ikaw
nga iwali mo ang pulong sang Dios. Magmapisan ka sa pagsugid sa mga tawo sa bisan ano nga oras. Kombinsiha ang mga tawo, sabdunga sila sa ila ginahimo nga malain sa ila ginahimo nga malain , kag palig-una ang ila pagtuo ang ila pagtuo paagi sa pagtudlo nga may pagpasensya.
Kay magaabot ang tion nga ang mga tawo indi na magpamati sa husto nga mga pagpanudlo, kundi ang ila gusto amo lang gid ang ila sundon. Magapangita sila sang mga manunudlo nga magatudlo sang mga butang nga gusto lang nila mabatian.
Indi na sila magpamati sa kamatuoran, kundi sa mga pagpanudlo nga himo-himo lang sang mga tawo.
Pero ikaw ya, magpugong ka sang imo kaugalingon sa tanan nga tion. Kon mag-abot ang kabudlayan, agwantaha lang. Tumana ang imo obligasyon bilang manugwali sang Maayong Balita, kag himua ang tanan nga ginapahimo sang Dios sa imo.
Kon parte sa akon, nag-abot na ang tion nga ang akon kabuhi ihalad na, tungod kay madali na lang ako maghalin sa sini nga kalibutan.
Ginhimo ko ang akon masarangan sa pagdalagan kag natapos ko na ang akon dalaganon. Gintipigan ko ang akon pagtuo.
Kag karon, may ginatigana ang Ginoo sa akon nga padya sang pagkamatarong
Tinguhai gid nga makakadto ka diri sa akon sa labing madali,
kay si Demas didto na sa Tesalonica. Ginbayaan niya ako tungod nga ginapasulabi niya ang mga butang mga butang sa sini nga panahon. Si Cresens wala na diri subong kay nagpa-Galacia siya, kag si Tito ya nagpa-Dalmacia.
Si Lucas lang gid ang akon kaupod diri. Gani sa pagkadto mo diri dal-on mo si Marcos tungod kay dako gid ang iya mabulig sa akon obra.
Kag parte kay Tykicus, ginpakadto ko siya sa Efeso.
Kon magkadto ka na diri, dal-on mo man ang akon bayo para sa tigtulugnaw nga akon ginbilin kay Carpus didto sa Troas. Dal-on mo man ang akon mga libro, labi na gid ang akon mga papeles.
Tama kalain ang mga ginhimo sa akon ni Alexander nga panday sang metal. Balusan siya sang Ginoo sa iya mga ginhimo.
Mag-andam ka sa iya tungod nga kontra gid niya ang aton ginatudlo.
Sa akon nahauna nga pag-atubang sa husgado para magdepensa sang akon kaugalingon wala gid sing may nagbulig sa akon. Ginpabay-an nila ako tanan. Kabay pa nga patawaron sila sang Dios.
Pero bisan amo ato ang natabo wala gid ako ginpabay-an sang Ginoo. Ginhatagan pa gani niya ako sing kabaskog sa pagsugid sa mga indi Judio sang tanan parte sa Maayong Balita. Amo gani nga naluwas ako sa kamatayon.
Kag nahibaluan ko nga luwason pa gid ako sang Ginoo sa tanan nga malain, kag indi ako maano hasta sa tion nga dal-on niya ako sa iya ginharian sa langit. Dalayawon siya hasta san-o. Amen!
Kamusta na lang kay Priscila kag kay Aquila, kag sa pamilya ni Onesiforus.
Si Erastus nagpabilin sa Corinto, kag si Trofimus ginbilin ko didto sa Miletus kay nagmasakit siya.
Nagapangamusta sa imo si Eubulus, Pudens, Linus, Claudia, kag ang tanan ta nga kauturan diri diri .
Kabay pa nga updan ka permi sang Ginoo. Kag kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon niya kamo tanan tanan .
Ako Ako si Pablo nga ulipon sang Dios kag apostol ni Jesu-Cristo. Ginpadala niya ako Ginpadala niya ako para mapalig-on ang mapalig-on ang pagtuo sang iya mga pinili kag para maintiendihan nila ang kamatuoran parte sa diosnon nga pagkabuhi.
Kag amo ini ang nagahatag sa aton sing paglaom nga kita may kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan. Sa wala pa ang kalibutan, nagpromisa na ang Dios nga hatagan niya kita sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan, kag ang Dios wala nagabutig.
Karon amo na ini ang tion nga iya ginpili para ipaathag ang parte sa sina nga kabuhi. Kag ako ang gintugyanan sang Dios nga aton Manluluwas sa pagsugid sini sa mga tawo.
Kabay pa nga mabaton mo ang grasya
Ginbilin ko ikaw sa Crete para padayunon mo ang aton buluhaton nga wala pa natapos, kag para makapili ka sang mga manugdumala para sa mga tumuluo sa tagsa ka banwa.
Indi pagkalimti ang akon bilin sa imo nga dapat pilion mo ang mga tawo nga wala sing kasawayan,
Ang nagadumala sa mga tumuluo amo ang gintugyanan sa buluhaton sang Dios, gani kinahanglan gid nga wala siya sing kasawayan, indi bugalon, indi mainiton, indi palahubog, indi palaaway, kag indi makikuwarta.
Dapat maabiabihon siya sa mga bisita, gusto permi maghimo sang maayo, kahibalo magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi, matarong, diosnon, kag makapugong sang iya kaugalingon.
Kinahanglan nga ginatipigan niya sing maayo ang matuod kag masaligan nga mga pulong nga gintudlo namon, para mapabakod niya ang iban paagi sa husto nga pagpanudlo kag makasabat siya sa mga tawo nga nagakontra sini.
Kay madamo ang indi magpamati sa matuod nga mga pagpanudlo, labi na gid ang mga tawo nga halin sa relihiyon sang mga Judio. Mga madaya sila nga mga tawo nga nagapanudlo sang wala sing pulos.
Kinahanglan gid nga tapnaon sila sa ila ginahimo, kay ginagamo nila ang mga panimalay paagi sa ila mga pagpanudlo nga indi dapat itudlo, kag ang ila katuyuan makahuluya tungod kay nagapanguwarta lang sila.
Ang isa sang ila mga propeta nga taga-Crete mismo nga taga-Crete mismo nagsiling, “Ang mga taga-Crete mga butigon kag mga malain pareho sa mapintas nga mga sapat, mga matamad kag gusto lang magkaon.”
Matuod gid inang iya ginasiling, gani dapat nga sabdungon mo sila sing masakit para magtadlong ang ila pagtuo,
kag para indi na sila magsapak sa mga himo-himo lang nga mga pagpanudlo sang mga Judio kag sa mga sugo nga himo-himo lang sang mga tawo nga nagtalikod sa kamatuoran.
Matinlo ang tanan nga butang sa mga tawo nga matinlo ang ila mga hunahuna ang ila mga hunahuna , pero sa mga tawo nga mahigko ang ila mga hunahuna ang ila mga hunahuna kag wala sing pagtuo sa Dios, para sa ila ang tanan mahigko, tungod kay mahigko matuod ang ila konsensya kag hunahuna.
Nagasiling sila nga nakakilala sila sa Dios, pero indi makita sa ila mga binuhatan. Makaulugot sila! Matig-a gid ang ila mga ulo! Gani indi sila makahimo sang bisan ano nga maayo.
Pero ikaw, Tito, Tito, kinahanglan itudlo mo ang suno sa husto nga pagpanudlo.
Laygayan mo ang gulang nga mga lalaki nga magpugong sang ila kaugalingon, magkabuhi nga talahuron kag kahibalo magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi. Dapat husto ang ila pagtuo, mahigugmaon sa ila isigkatawo, kag mabinatason sa tanan nga butang.
Kag laygayan mo man ang gulang nga mga babayi nga dapat maayo ang ila pamatasan bilang mga babayi nga nagatuo sa Dios, wala nagapakalain sa iban, kag indi palainom. Dapat itudlo nila ang maayo,
para makatuon ang bataon pa nga mga babayi kon paano maghigugma sa ila bana kag mga kabataan,
kag kon paano magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi, kag para makatuon sila nga magkabuhi nga may matinlo nga tagipusuon, mag-atipan sang panimalay, magpakabuot, kag magpasakop sa ila bana, para wala sing may magpakalain sa pulong sang Dios nga aton ginatudlo.
Laygayan mo man ang bataon pa nga mga lalaki nga dapat kahibalo sila magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi.
Dapat sulundan ka nila sa paghimo sing maayo sa tanan nga butang. Dapat sinsero ka kag seryuso sa imo pagtudlo.
Siguruhon mo nga ang imo mga ginahambal husto kag wala sing kasawayan, para mahuy-an ang mga tawo nga nagakontra sa aton, kay wala sila sing may mahambal nga malain kontra sa aton.
Laygayan mo man Laygayan mo man ang mga ulipon nga dapat magtuman sila sa ila amo sa tanan nga bagay, para malipay ang ila mga amo sa ila. Indi sila magpamatok ukon magsagi sabat.
Silinga man sila nga Silinga man sila nga indi magpangawat sa ila mga amo, sa ila mga amo, kundi magpakita sila nga sila maayo kag masaligan, para sa tanan nila nga mga ginahimo magasiling ang mga tawo nga matahom gali ang aton mga pagpanudlo parte sa Dios nga aton Manluluwas.
Kay ginpakita na sang Dios sa tanan nga klase sang mga tawo ang iya grasya nga nagahatag sang kaluwasan.
Kag ina nga grasya nagatudlo sa aton nga dapat isikway ta na ang pagkabuhi nga indi diosnon kag ang mga kalibutanon nga mga kailigbon. Dapat magkabuhi kita sa sini nga panahon nga nakahibalo magtimbang-timbang kon diin ang husto ukon indi. Kag dapat matarong kag diosnon ang aton ginahimo
samtang nagahulat kita sa malipayon nga adlaw nga aton ginalauman, nga amo ang makatilingala nga pag-abot ni Jesu-Cristo nga aton Manluluwas kag makagagahom nga Dios.
Gintugyan niya ang iya kaugalingon nga patyon para maluwas kita sa tanan ta nga kalautan, kag para mangin iya kita nga mga katawhan, nga matinlo kag gusto gid maghimo sing maayo.
Itudlo mo ini nga mga butang sa ila, kag gamita ang imo awtoridad samtang ginapabakod mo kag ginasaway ang mga nagapamati sa imo. Indi ka maghimo sang bisan ano nga mangin kabangdanan nga hikayan ka sang iban.
Padumduma ang mga tumuluo nga magpasakop kag magtuman sa mga pangulo kag mga awtoridad. Kinahanglan handa permi ang mga tumuluo sa paghimo sang bisan ano nga maayo.
Silingon mo sila nga indi maghambal sing malain kontra sa bisan kay sin-o ukon magpangaway, kundi magmabuot sila kag magmalulo permi sa tanan nga tawo.
Kay sang una, wala man kita nakahibalo sang kamatuoran parte sa Dios kag indi kita matinumanon. Ginpatalang kita kag gin-ulipon sang aton malain nga mga balatyagon kag sang sari-sari nga mga pagpangalipay. Naghari sa aton ang malain nga mga handom kag kahisa. Gindumtan kita sang iban kag kita nagdumot man sa ila.
Pero nag-abot ang tion nga ginpakita sang Dios nga aton Manluluwas ang iya kaayo kag gugma sa aton.
Ginluwas niya kita indi tungod sa aton maayo nga mga binuhatan, kundi tungod sa iya kaluoy sa aton. Kag ginhimo niya ini paagi sa Espiritu Santo nga naghugas sa aton kag naghatag sing bag-o nga kabuhi.
Ginhatag sang Dios sa aton sing bugana ang Espiritu Santo paagi kay Jesu-Cristo nga aton Manluluwas,
agod paagi sa iya grasya nga nagpakamatarong sa aton, maangkon ta ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga amo ang aton ginalauman.
Gani gusto ko nga itudlo mo gid ini nga mga butang para ang mga nagatuo sa Dios magtinguha gid sa paghimo sing maayo. Maayo gid ini kag mapuslanon para sa mga tawo.
Pero maglikaw ka sa wala sing pulos nga mga pagbinais-bais, sa mga pag-usoy kon sin-o ang ila katigulangan, sa mga pagdebate kag pag-ilinaway parte sa Kasuguan. Ina nga mga butang wala sing pulos kay wala ka gid sing may makuha dira.
Kon may tawo dira nga amo ang ginahalinan sang mga pagbinahin-bahin, dapat paandaman mo siya. Pero pagkatapos sang ikaduha nga pagpaandam, kon indi pa gid siya magpati, indi na ninyo siya pagpaupdon sa inyo.
Kay nahibaluan mo nga ina nga tawo tiko ang iya panghunahuna, kag ang iya pagpakasala nagapamatuod nga may salabton siya sa Dios.
Pakadtuon ko dira sa imo si Artemas ukon si Tykicus. Kon mag-abot na gani dira ang isa sa ila, magkadto ka dayon sa Nicopolis kag magpakigkita sa akon, kay nadesisyunan ko na nga didto ako matiner sa tion sing tigtulugnaw.
Buligan mo gid si Zenas nga abogado kag si Apolos nga makalakat na sila. Siguruhon mo nga indi sila pagkulangon sa ila mga kinahanglanon.
Tudlui ang aton mga kauturan dira nga magtinguha nga mag-obra sing maayo para indi sila pagkulangon sa ila mga kinahanglanon. Sa sini nga paagi indi sila magakabuhi nga wala sing pulos.
Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon kamo tanan sang Dios sang Dios .
Ako Ako si Pablo nga napriso tungod kay Cristo Jesus. Ako Ako kag si Timoteo nga aton utod kay Cristo nagapangamusta kay Cristo nagapangamusta sa imo Filemon bilang pinalangga man namon nga utod nga utod kag kaupod nga manugpangabudlay
Nagapangamusta man kami Nagapangamusta man kami kay Afia nga aton utod, kay Arkipus nga aton kapareho nga soldado ni Cristo ni Cristo , kag sa mga tumuluo nga nagatipon
Permi ako nagapasalamat sa Dios kada pangamuyo ko para sa imo,
tungod nakabati ako nga mabakod ang imo pagtuo kay Ginoong Jesus kag mahigugmaon ka sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios.
Nagapangamuyo ako nga kabay pa nga ang imo pagkamahinatagon, nga bunga sang imo pagtuo,
Pinalangga ko nga Pinalangga ko nga utod, tungod sang imo pagpalangga sa mga katawhan sang Dios nagbakod sila, gani nalipay gid ako kag nagbakod man.
Karon may ipangabay ako sa imo. Nahibaluan ko nga tungod sa awtoridad nga ginhatag sa akon ni Cristo makasugo ako sa imo.
Pero tungod nga ginapalangga ko ikaw, mapangabay na lang ako sa imo. Gani bilang isa ka tigulang kag napriso tungod kay Cristo Jesus,
nagapangabay ako subong sa imo para kay Onesimus, nga kon mahimo patawaron mo siya nga kon mahimo patawaron mo siya . Ginakabig ko siya nga bilang akon anak tungod nga nadala ko siya sa pagtuo kay Cristo diri sa prisohan.
Sang una wala mo siya mapusli, pero subong duha na kita ang makapulos sa iya.
Karon ginapabalik ko dira sa imo ang akon pinalangga nga si Onesimus.
Gusto ko kuntani nga diri na lang siya agod paagi sa iya makabulig ka sa akon samtang ari pa ko sa prisohan tungod sa akon pagwali sang Maayong Balita.
Pero indi ko gusto nga himuon ini nga wala ka sing pagtugot, para indi magguwa nga ginpilit ko lang ikaw nga magbulig sa akon, kundi gusto ko nga kon magbulig ka gid man, magbulig ka sing tinagipusuon.
Ginbuot siguro sang Dios nga makapalayo anay si Onesimus sa imo, para sa pagbalik niya sa imo indi na gid kamo magbulagay hasta san-o.
Karon indi na siya ulipon lang, kundi imo pa nga pinalangga nga utod. Palangga ko siya, pero mas palangga mo pa gid siya tungod nga subong indi mo lang siya ulipon kundi imo man siya utod sa Ginoo.
Gani, kon ginakabig mo ako nga imo kapareho nga tumuluo, batuna siya nga daw ako ang imo ginabaton.
Kon nakasala siya sa imo ukon nakautang man siya, ako ang mabayad sina.
Ako gid mismo, si Pablo, ang nagsulat sini: “Ako ang magabayad kon may utang siya sa imo.” Ugaling nahibaluan mo nga may dako ka man nga utang sa akon, kay paagi sa akon nabaton mo ang kaluwasan.
Gani utod, tumana ining akon ginapangabay sa imo tungod nga pareho na kita nga nagatuo sa Ginoo. Lipaya man ako bilang imo utod kay Cristo.
Dako ang akon pagsalig nga tumanon mo ang akon ginapangabay, gani amo ini nga nagasulat ako sa imo. Kag nagapati ako nga sobra pa gid sining akon ginapangabay ang imo himuon sa iya.
May pangabay pa gid ako sa imo. Kon mahimo preparahan mo ako sang akon dalayunan, kay nagasalig ako nga paagi sa inyo mga pangamuyo makabalik ako dira sa inyo.
Ang akon kaupod nga si Epafras nga napriso man tungod kay Cristo Jesus nagapangamusta man sa imo.
Nagapangamusta man ang akon mga kaupod nga mga manugpangabudlay nga sanday Marcos, Aristarcus, Demas, kag Lucas.
Sang una nga panahon, madamo gid nga beses nga naghambal ang Dios sa aton mga katigulangan sa nagkalain-lain nga paagi, paagi sa mga propeta.
Pero sa sining ulihi nga mga inadlaw, naghambal siya sa aton paagi sa iya Anak. Paagi sa iya, ginhimo sang Dios ang bilog nga kalibutan, kag siya man ang iya ginpili nga mangin tag-iya sang tanan nga butang.
Sa iya mismo makita ang gahom sang Dios nga nagasilak, kag kon ano ang Dios amo man siya. Siya amo ang nagabuot sang tanan nga butang sa bilog nga kalibutan paagi sa iya makagagahom nga pulong. Pagkatapos nga nalimpyuhan niya kita sa aton mga sala, nagpungko siya sa tuo sang Makagagahom nga Dios didto sa langit.
Gani mas labaw ang Anak sang Dios kag mas halangdon ang iya ngalan sang sa mga anghel.
kag siya mangin akon Anak.”
“Ang tanan nga anghel sang Dios dapat magsimba sa iya.”
puwede ko man nga himuon nga puwede ko man nga himuon nga nagadabdab nga kalayo.
nga labaw sang sa ginhatag niya sa imo mga kaupdanan.”
amo ang nagtuga sang kalibutan kag sang kalangitan.
Magagabok sila tanan pareho sa bayo.
wala nagatigulang kag wala sing kamatayon.”
hasta mapaidalom ko sa imo ang imo mga kaaway.”
Ti, indi bala ang mga anghel mga espiritu lang nga ginasugo sang Dios nga magbulig sa mga tawo nga magabaton sang kaluwasan?
Gani kinahanglan ta gid nga tipigan sing maayo ang mga kamatuoran nga mga kamatuoran nga aton nabatian para indi kita magtalang.
Hunahunaa bala ninyo; ang Kasuguan nga ginpadala paagi sa mga anghel napamatud-an nga matuod gid, kag ang kada isa nga wala nagsunod ukon wala nagtuman sini ginsilutan suno sa iya nahimo nga sala.
Gani indi gid kita makaluwas sa silot sa silot kon indi ta pagsapakon subong ining kaluwasan nga wala gid sing kapareho. Ang Ginoo mismo amo ang una nga nagsugid sang sini nga kaluwasan, kag ginpamatud-an ini sa aton sang mga tawo nga nakabati sa iya.
Kag ginpamatud-an pa gid ini sang Dios paagi sa nagkalain-lain nga milagro kag makatilingala nga mga butang, kag sa nagkalain-lain nga abilidad nga iya ginpanagtag paagi sa Espiritu Santo suno sa iya gusto.
Karon, kon parte sa palaabuton nga kalibutan nga ginasiling namon, indi ang mga anghel ang ibutang sang Dios nga magadumala;
Pero Pero ginpadunggan mo siya pareho sa hari,
Ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan nga Ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan nga sakop sang tawo ang tanan nga butang nagakahulugan nga magaabot ang adlaw nga magaabot ang adlaw nga wala gid sing butang nga indi ipasakop sa tawo. Pero sa karon nahibaluan ta nga indi pa sakop sang tawo ang tanan nga butang.
Pero kon parte kay Jesus, nahibaluan ta nga sa malip-ot nga tion ginhimo siya sang Dios nga mas manubo sang sa mga anghel, agod paagi sa grasya sang Dios, mapatay siya para sa tanan nga tawo. Kag karon ginpadunggan siya bilang hari tungod sa iya gin-antos nga kamatayon.
Ginhimo sang Dios ang tanan nga butang, kag ginhimo niya ini para sa iya kaugalingon. Gani bagay gid lang nga magtugot siya nga mag-antos si Jesus, para makompleto ni Jesus ang ginapahimo sa iya bilang ginahalinan sang kaluwasan. Sa sini nga paagi madamo nga mga tawo ang mangin iya mga tawo ang mangin iya mga anak nga iya iya padunggan.
Si Jesus ang nagalimpyo sa aton mga sala. Kag ang iya Amay amo man ang aton Amay. Amo ina nga wala siya nahuya magtawag sa aton nga iya mga utod.
kag magakanta ako sang pagdayaw sa imo sa ila mga pagtililipon.”
“Ari ako kag ang mga anak nga ginhatag sang Dios sa akon.”
Kag tungod nga ang ining ginatawag niya nga mga anak mga tawo nga may lawas kag dugo, si Jesus mismo nagpakatawo man agod paagi sa iya kamatayon mapierdi niya ang yawa nga amo ang ginahalinan sang kamatayon sang mga tawo.
Sa amo nga paagi ginhilway niya sila nga nangin ulipon sa kahadlok sa bilog nila nga kabuhi tungod sang ila kahadlok sa kamatayon.
Gani maathag gid nga indi ang mga anghel ang ginabuligan ni Jesus, kundi ang mga kaliwat ni Abraham.
Amo ina nga kinahanglan gid nga mangin tawo si Jesus nga pareho gid sa iya mga kauturan sa tanan nga bagay, para mangin ila siya nga pangulo nga pari nga maluluy-on kag masaligan, nga makahalad sa Dios para matubos ang mga tawo sa ila mga sala.
Siya mismo nakaagi sang mga pag-antos sang gintentar siya, gani sarang gid siya makabulig sa mga tawo nga ginatentar.
Gani mga kauturan ko nga mga katawhan sang Dios, kag kapareho ko nga mga gintawag sang Dios nga mangin kaupod niya sa langit, dumduma ninyo si Jesus. Siya ang apostol kag pangulo nga pari sang aton ginatuohan.
Matutom siya sa Dios nga nagsugo sa iya, pareho bala kay Moises nga matutom man sa iya pagdumala sa pamilya sang Dios.
Pero ginakabig sang Dios sang Dios si Jesus nga mas labaw sang sa kay Moises, tungod kay kon sa balay pa, mas may dungog ang naghimo sang balay kaysa balay mismo.
Kay nahibaluan ta nga kon may balay, may naghimo sini, kag ang naghimo sang tanan nga butang wala sing iban kundi ang Dios.
Bilang alagad sang Dios, masaligan si Moises sa iya pag-asikaso sa pamilya sang Dios.
Pero si Cristo ya masaligan bilang Anak nga gintugyanan sang pamilya sang Dios. Kag kita ang pamilya sang Dios, kon nagapadayon kita nga matutom sa aton paglaom nga aton ginapabugal.
“Kon mabatian ninyo subong ang tingog sang Dios,
nagrebelde sila sa Dios sa Dios kag gintentar nila siya.
sa ila sa ila sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig.
kag wala nagasunod sa akon mga pamaagi.
nga indi gid nila mabaton ang kapahuwayan nga halin sa akon.’ ”
Mga kauturan, mag-andam kamo nga wala sing malain sa inyo tagipusuon nga amo ang magapaluya sang inyo pagtuo hasta nga makapalayo kamo sa buhi nga Dios.
Ang inyo himuon, magpadumdumanay kamo adlaw-adlaw samtang may tiyempo pa, para indi kamo mapatalang sang sala nga makapatig-a sang inyo tagipusuon.
Kay kita kaupod ni Cristo kon ginatipigan ta sing hugot ang aton pagsalig sa iya hasta sa katapusan.
sang una sang nagrebelde sila sa Dios sa Dios .”
Sin-o bala nga mga tawo ang nakabati sadto sang tingog sang Dios pero nagkontra sa iya? Indi bala ang tanan nga ginpangunahan ni Moises paguwa sa Egypt?
Kag sin-o bala ang naakigan sang Dios sa sulod sang 40 ka tuig? Indi bala ang mga tawo nga nagpakasala kag nagkalamatay didto sa kamingawan?
Kag sin-o bala ang gintumod sang Dios sa iya pagpanumpa nga indi gid sila makabaton sang kapahuwayan nga halin sa iya? Indi bala ang mga tawo nga wala nagsunod sa iya?
Gani maathag sa aton nga wala sila nakabaton sang kapahuwayan tungod kay wala sila nagtuo sa Dios.
Pero bisan amo ato ang natabo sa ila, Pero bisan amo ato ang natabo sa ila, nagapabilin gihapon ang promisa sang Dios nga sarang kita makabaton sang kapahuwayan nga halin sa iya. Gani mag-andam gid kita kay basi kon may ara sa aton nga indi makabaton sini.
Kay nakabati man kita sang Maayong Balita pareho sa ila sang una. Pero wala nila napusli ang ila nabatian tungod kay wala sila nagtuo.
Wala ini nagakahulugan nga ang kapahuwayan wala pa, tungod kay Wala ini nagakahulugan nga ang kapahuwayan wala pa, tungod kay ang matuod, may ara na nga kapahuwayan halin pa sang iya paghimo sang kalibutan.
Indi bala nga amo ini ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan parte sa ikapito nga adlaw: “Kag sa ikapito nga adlaw nagpahuway ang Dios sa tanan niya nga obra.”
Kag sa liwat nagasiling diri nga, “Indi gid nila mabaton ang kapahuwayan nga halin sa akon.”
Maathag nga gintuyo sang Dios nga may makabaton sang sadto nga kapahuwayan, pero ang mga nakabati sang una sang Maayong Balita wala nakabaton sini tungod kay wala sila nagsunod sa Dios.
indi pagpatig-aha ang inyo mga tagipusuon.”
Kay kon matuod nga nadala ni Josue ang mga tawo sang una sa kapahuwayan, wala na kuntani naghambal ang Dios nga may iban pa gid nga adlaw nga hatagan niya ang mga tawo sang kapahuwayan.
Gani may kapahuwayan pa gid nga ginatigana ang Dios para sa iya mga tawo.
Kay ang bisan sin-o nga makabaton sang kapahuwayan nga halin sa Dios makapahuway na sa iya mga obra, pareho sa Dios nga nagpahuway pagkatapos nga nahimo niya ang tanan.
Gani tinguhaan ta gid nga mabaton ang ini nga kapahuwayan. Indi gid kita magsunod sa mga tawo sang una nga wala nagsunod sa Dios, kay basi bala kon indi man kita makabaton.
Kay ang pulong sang Dios buhi kag gamhanan, kag mas matalom pa sa espada nga duha ang sulab. Nagadulot ini hasta sa kalag kag sa espiritu, kag hasta sa mga lutalutahan kag sa utok sang mga tul-an. Nahibaluan niya ang mga butang nga ginahunahuna kag ginahandom sang mga tawo.
Wala gid sing may makapanago sa Dios; makita niya ang tanan kag hayag gid sa iya panulok, kag sa iya kita magapanabat.
Gani tipigan gid naton ang aton ginatuohan, tungod kay may gamhanan kita nga pangulo nga pari nga didto na sa langit. Kag ini wala sing iban kundi si Jesus nga Anak sang Dios.
Ang aton pangulo nga pari nagabatyag man sang aton mga kaluyahon, kay ang tanan nga temtasyon nga nagaabot sa aton naagyan man niya, pero wala gid siya nakasala.
Gani indi kita magkatahap nga magpalapit sa trono sang Dios nga maluluy-on, para mabaton ta ang kaluoy kag bulig sa oras nga kinahanglan naton.
Ang kada pangulo nga pari ginpili halin sa mga tawo para mag-alagad sa Dios para sa ila. Responsibilidad niya ang paghalad sa Dios sang mga sapat kag sang iban pa nga mga halad para sa kapatawaran sang mga sala.
Ang pangulo nga pari tawo man lang nga maluya pareho sa aton. Gani may pasunaid siya sa mga tawo nga wala nakahibalo nga nagakasala sila.
Kag tungod kay siya mismo nagakasala man, kinahanglan nga maghalad man siya para sa iya kaugalingon nga mga sala, kag indi lang para sa mga sala sang mga tawo.
May dungog bilang pangulo nga pari. Pero wala sing may makapili sang iya kaugalingon para mangin pangulo nga pari. Kay ang Dios amo ang nagapili kon sin-o ang mangin pangulo nga pari, pareho kay Aaron sang una.
“Ikaw ang akon Anak, kag subong ipakilala ko nga ako ang imo Amay.”
“Pari ikaw hasta san-o, pareho sang pagkapari ni Melkizedek.”
Sang diri pa si Jesus sa kalibutan, nagapangamuyo siya kag nagahibi gid nga nagapakitluoy sa Dios nga sarang makaluwas sa iya sa kamatayon. Kag tungod kay matinumanon siya, ginsabat sang Dios ang iya pagpangamuyo.
Kag bisan Anak siya mismo sang Dios mismo sang Dios , natun-an niya ang pagkamatinumanon paagi sa mga pag-antos nga iya naagyan.
Pagkatapos nga naagyan niya ang tanan nga dapat niya agyan, nangin manluluwas siya sang tanan nga nagatuman sa iya, agod hasta san-o, hilway na sila sa silot sa silot .
Ini tungod nga ginhimo siya sang Dios nga pangulo nga pari pareho sang pagkapari ni Melkizedek.
Madamo pa kuntani ang amon inugsugid sa inyo parte sa pagkapari ni Melkizedek kag ni Jesus, ugaling mabudlay ipaathag sa inyo tungod kay mabudlay kamo paintiendihon.
Dapat kuntani mga manunudlo na kamo kay dugay na kamo nga nagtuo, pero hasta subong kinahanglan pa gid kamo nga tudluan sang mga panguna nga mga pagtulun-an parte sa pulong sang Dios. Pareho gihapon Pareho gihapon kamo sa mga lapsag nga sa mga lapsag nga nagakinahanglan sang gatas tungod kay indi pa kamo makakaon sang matig-a nga mga pagkaon.
Ang mga nagakabuhi sa gatas mga lapsag nga wala sing kalibutan kon ano ang maayo kag malain.
Pero ang matig-a nga mga pagkaon para sa mga may buot na nga nakahibalo na kon ano ang maayo kag malain.
Gani kinahanglan bayaan ta na inang mga nahauna nga mga pagpanudlo parte kay Cristo, kag magpadayon kita sa madalom nga mga pagpanudlo. Indi ta na pagbalik-balikon ang parte sa paghinulsol kag pagbiya sa wala sing pulos nga mga buhat kag ang parte sa pagtuo sa Dios,
ang mga pagpanudlo parte sa pagbautiso, parte sa pagtungtong sang kamot sa ulo sa ulo , sa pagbanhaw sang mga patay, kag sa paghukom sang Dios sa kada tawo kon ano ang iya mangin kahimtangan sang Dios sa kada tawo kon ano ang iya mangin kahimtangan hasta san-o.
Ang aton himuon, kon itugot sang Dios, magpadayon kita sa pagtuon sang madalom nga mga pagpanudlo
Ang aton halimbawa pareho sa duta nga ginapakamaayo sang Dios kon pagkatapos nga maulanan permi nagapatubo sang mga tanom nga mapuslan sang nagapangabudlay sini.
Pero kon ang nagatubo puro lang tunukon nga tanom, ti wala ina sing pulos; gani sumpaon na lang sang Dios, kag sa ulihi sunugon.
Mga hinigugma, bisan nagahambal kami pareho sini sa inyo, nasiguro namon nga maayo ang inyo kahimtangan kon parte sa inyo kaluwasan.
Matarong ang Dios, kag indi mahimo nga malimtan niya ang inyo maayo nga maayo nga mga binuhatan kag ang inyo gugma sa iya nga inyo ginpakita kag padayon nga ginapakita paagi sa inyo pagbulig sa inyo kapareho nga inyo kapareho nga mga katawhan sang Dios.
Gusto namon nga ang kada isa sa inyo magpadayon nga matutom sa inyo paglaom sa Dios hasta sa katapusan, para mabaton ninyo ang inyo ginalauman.
Indi kamo magtinamad, kundi sunda ninyo ang mga tawo nga paagi sa ila pagtuo kag pagkamainantuson nagabaton sang mga promisa sang Dios.
Tan-awa bala ninyo si Abraham: sang magpromisa ang Dios sa iya, wala naggamit ang Dios sang iban nga ngalan para pamatud-an niya ang iya promisa kundi gin-gamit niya ang iya kaugalingon nga ngalan tungod kay wala na sing may makalabaw pa sa iya.
Nagsiling siya, “Pakamaayuhon ko gid ikaw kag padamuon ko gid ang imo mga kaliwat.”
Karon, naghulat si Abraham nga may pagpasensya, gani nabaton niya ang ginpromisa sang Dios.
Nagapanumpa ang tawo sa ngalan sang Dios nga ngalan sang Dios nga mas labaw pa sa iya para patihan siya kag para wala na sing madamo pa nga estorya.
Amo man ang ginhimo sang Dios sang una sa mga tawo nga iya ginpromisahan. Ginpakita niya sa ila paagi sa iya pagsumpa nga tumanon gid niya ang iya ginpromisa.
Kag ang duha nga ini ka butang, ang promisa kag ang sumpa, ang promisa kag ang sumpa, indi gid magbalhin, kay indi gid mahimo nga magbutig ang Dios. Gani kita nga nakadangop na sa iya may mabakod na gid nga paglaom nga himuon gid niya ang iya ginpromisa sa aton.
Ang ini nga paglaom amo ang nagahatag sang kasiguruhan sa aton kabuhi, kay nagaabot ini mismo sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar
nga sa diin didto si Jesus nga nag-una para sa aton. Siya ang aton pangulo nga pari hasta san-o pareho sang pagkapari ni Melkizedek.
Si Melkizedek hari sang una sang Salem kag pari sang Labing Mataas nga Dios. Samtang nagapapuli na si Abraham halin sa pagpakig-away sa mga hari nga iya ginpamatay, ginsugata siya ni Melkizedek kag ginbendisyunan.
Pagkatapos ginhatag ni Abraham kay Melkizedek ang ikanapulo sang tanan nga butang nga iya nakuha sa inaway nga butang nga iya nakuha sa inaway . Ang kahulugan sang ngalan nga Melkizedek, “Hari sang Pagkamatarong.” Kag tungod kay hari siya sang Salem,
Wala gid sing kasulatan nga nagasiling kon sin-o ang iya amay kag iloy ukon ang iya mga katigulangan. Kag wala man sing kasulatan nga nagasugid parte sa iya pagkatawo ukon kamatayon. Pareho siya sa Anak sang Dios; ang iya pagkapari wala sing katapusan.
Hunahunaa bala ninyo kon ano kagamhanan si Melkizedek. Kay bisan gani si Abraham nga amo ang nagpundar sang aton nasyon naghatag sa iya sang ikanapulo nga parte sang tanan nga iya nakuha sa inaway.
Kon parte sa mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, suno sa Kasuguan, para sa ila ang ikanapulo nga parte sang pagkabutang sang ila kapareho nga mga Judio, bisan matuod nga sila tanan pareho nga mga kaliwat ni Abraham.
Pero si Melkizedek, bisan indi siya kaliwat ni Levi, ginhatagan ni Abraham sang iya ikanapulo. Kag si Melkizedek pa ang nagbendisyon kay Abraham, bisan pa nga si Abraham amo ang ginpromisahan sang Dios.
Kag nahibaluan ta nga ang nagabendisyon mas mataas kaysa ginabendisyunan.
Kon parte sa mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi nga nagabaton sang ikanapulo, mga tawo man lang sila nga may kamatayon. Pero nagapamatuod ang Kasulatan nga si Melkizedek nga ginhatagan ni Abraham sang iya ikanapulo buhi sa gihapon.
Kag makasiling kita nga bisan si Levi, nga ang iya mga kaliwat ang iya mga kaliwat amo ang nagabaton sang ikanapulo, naghatag man sang iya ikanapulo kay Melkizedek paagi kay Abraham;
kay makasiling kita nga si Levi didto sa lawas ni Abraham sang paghatag ni Abraham sang iya ikanapulo kay Melkizedek.
Karon, nahibaluan ta nga sang paghatag sang Dios sang Kasuguan sa mga Judio, may kaangtanan diri ang pagkapari sa linya ni Levi. Kon puwede nga mangin matarong ang mga tawo paagi sa ginahimo sang mga pari, indi na kuntani kinahanglan ang iban pa nga pari pareho sang pagkapari ni Melkizedek, nga lain sang sa pagkapari ni Aaron.
Pero kon ilisan ang pagkapari, kinahanglan nga ilisan man ang Kasuguan.
Maathag gid nga gin-ilisan na ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, tungod kay nga gin-ilisan na ang mga pari nga mga kaliwat ni Levi, tungod kay may iban na subong nga pari nga pareho kay Melkizedek.
Nangin pari siya indi tungod sa kaliwat nga suno sa Kasuguan, kundi tungod sa iya gamhanan nga kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
pareho sang pagkapari ni Melkizedek.”
Gani ang daan nga Kasuguan gin-ilisan na sang Dios tungod kay wala ini sing pulos kag indi makabulig sa aton.
Kay indi mahimo nga makabig kita nga matarong sa panulok sang Dios paagi sa aton pagsunod sa Kasuguan. Amo ina nga ginhatagan kita subong sang mas maayo kag masaligan nga paagi, kag paagi sini makapalapit na kita sa Dios.
Ining bag-o nga paagi mas maayo kag masaligan tungod kay sang paghimo sang Dios sa mga kaliwat ni Levi nga mangin mga pari wala gid siya nagpanumpa.
nga pari ikaw hasta san-o.”
Gani si Jesus ang garantiya sang mas maayo nga kasugtanan sang Dios sa iya mga katawhan sang Dios sa iya mga katawhan .
Sang una madamo ang mga pari tungod kay kon mapatay ang isa mabulos naman ang isa para makapadayon ang ila obra bilang mga pari.
Pero si Jesus nagakabuhi hasta san-o, amo ina nga ang iya pagkapari wala ginasaylo sa iban.
Gani sarang niya maluwas sing bug-os ang bisan sin-o nga tawo nga magpalapit sa Dios paagi sa iya. Kay buhi siya hasta san-o sa pagpakitluoy sa Dios sa Dios para sa ila.
Gani si Jesus amo gid ang pangulo nga pari nga aton kinahanglan. Balaan siya; wala gid siya naghimo sing malain kag wala gid sing sala sa iya kabuhi. Ginpain siya sa mga tawo nga makasasala kag gindala sa ibabaw pa sang mga langit.
Indi siya pareho sang iban nga pangulo nga mga pari nga kinahanglan maghalad adlaw-adlaw, premiro para sa ila kaugalingon nga sala, pagkatapos para sa mga sala sang mga tawo. Pero si Jesus ya kaisa lang gid naghalad. Ginhalad niya ang iya kaugalingon didto sa krus didto sa krus kag wala na niya ginliwat-liwat pa.
Ang mga tawo nga ginhimo nga pangulo nga mga pari suno sa Kasuguan mga tawo man lang nga nagakasala. Pero suno sa sinumpaan sang Dios, nga iya ginhambal pagkatapos nga mahatag nga mahatag ang Kasuguan, ang iya iya Anak mismo amo ang iya ginpili nga mangin pangulo nga pari nga mangin pangulo nga pari . Kay natapos na niya ang katuyuan sang Dios nga magapadayon hasta san-o.
Amo ini ang buot namon silingon sang amon ginahambal: nga kita subong may pangulo na nga pari nga nagapungko sa tuo sang trono sang Makagagahom nga Dios sa langit.
Nagaalagad siya mismo didto sa balaan nga lugar, ang matuod nga Tolda nga Simbahan nga indi tawo ang naghimo kundi ang Ginoo mismo.
Ang kada pangulo nga pari ginapili nga maghalad sa Dios sang mga halad nga mga sapat kag iban pa nga mga halad. Gani ang aton pangulo nga pari dapat may ihalad man.
Kon diri pa siya sa duta, indi mahimo nga mangin pari siya, kay halin pa sang una may mga pari na diri nga nagahalad suno sa Kasuguan.
Ang ila ginahimo nga mga paghalad landong lang sang mga butang nga nagakalatabo didto sa langit. Nahibaluan ta ini tungod kay sadtong ipatindog na ni Moises ang Tolda nga Simbahan nagsiling ang Dios sa iya, “Siguraduha nga ipahimo mo ini tanan suno gid sa plano nga ginpakita ko sa imo diri sa bukid.”
Pero sa matuod lang, ang obra ni Jesus bilang pangulo nga pari mas maayo sang sa obra sang ato nga mga pari. Kag ang bag-o nga kasugtanan subong nga iya ginpatigayon mas maayo pa kon ikomparar sa una nga kasugtanan. Tungod kay ang bag-o nga kasugtanan ginabasi sa mas maayo pa nga mga promisa sang Dios.
Kon wala sing kakulangan ang una nga kasugtanan indi na kuntani kinahanglan nga ilisan.
sa katawhan sang Israel kag sang Juda,
Ako, Ako, ang Ginoo, ang nagasiling sini.
Ako mangin ila Dios, kag sila mangin akon katawhan.
halin sa pinakakubos hasta sa pinakadungganon.
indi ko na pagdumdumon ang ila mga sala.”
Kag tungod kay nagsiling ang Dios nga may bag-o na nga kasugtanan, maathag nga ang una nga kasugtanan daan na, kag ang bisan ano nga daan na kag wala na ginagamit, madula na lang.
Ang una nga kasugtanan may mga pagsulundan parte sa pagsimba kag may simbahan nga ginhimo sang mga tawo.
Ato nga Tolda nga Simbahan nga ila ginpatindog may duha ka kuwarto may duha ka kuwarto . Ang una nga kuwarto ginatawag nga Balaan nga Lugar. Didto ang bulutangan sang suga, ang lamisa, kag ang mga tinapay nga ginhalad sa Dios.
Ang ikaduha nga kuwarto nga sa likod sang kurtina amo ang ginatawag nga Labing Balaan nga Lugar.
Didto nakabutang ang bulawan nga halaran nga ginasunugan sang insenso, kag ang Kahon sang Kasugtanan nga nahaklapan man sang bulawan. Didto sa Kahon nasulod ang bulawan nga tibod nga may sulod nga manna, kag ang baston ni Aaron nga nagpanalingsing, pati ang malapad nga mga bato nga ginsulatan sang mga sugo sang Dios.
Didto sa ibabaw sang kahon may mga ginatawag nga kerubin nga nagapakilala nga didto ang Dios. Ang pakpak sang kerubin nagahumlad sa ibabaw sang lugar nga ginapasayluhan sang Dios sang mga sala sang mga tawo. Ugaling sa karon indi namon ini tanan mapaathag sa inyo.
Pero amo ina ang hitsura sang sulod sang Tolda nga Simbahan. Kag adlaw-adlaw gid ang sulod sang mga pari sa una nga kuwarto para himuon ang ila katungdanan.
Pero sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, ang pangulo gid lang nga pari ang puwede makasulod kag kaisa gid lang kada tuig. Kag kon magsulod siya didto nagadala gid siya sang dugo nga inughalad sa Dios para sa iya kaugalingon nga mga sala kag para sa mga sala sang mga tawo nga ila nahimo nga wala nila nahibalui.
Paagi sa ila mga ginahimo nga ina, ginatudlo sa aton sang Espiritu Santo nga ang ordinaryo nga mga tawo indi gid makasulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar samtang nagatindog pa ang daan nga Tolda nga Simbahan.
Ini nga simbahan larawan lang para sa aton panahon subong. Tungod kay ang matuod, ang tanan nga ginadala didto pati ang mga sapat nga ginahalad sa Dios indi gid makalimpyo sang konsensya sang mga nagasimba sa sadto nga paagi.
Ang mga butang nga ila ginahimo puro lang parte sa mga kalan-on kag ilimnon kag parte sa mga pagpanghugas. Ina nga mga regulasyon nga pangguwa lang hasta lang gid sa oras nga bag-uhon sang Dios ang tanan.
Pero karon nag-abot na si Cristo nga aton pangulo nga pari sa bag-o nga paagi nga mas maayo pa sang sa daan. Nagsulod siya sa Tolda nga Simbahan nga mas maayo kag wala kakulangan. Indi tawo ang naghimo sina kag wala diri sa sining kalibutan.
Kaisa gid lang naghalad si Cristo sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar kag wala na magliwat-liwat. Indi dugo sang mga kanding kag sang mga bataon nga baka ang iya dala nga inughalad kundi ang iya dugo mismo. Kag tungod sa iya dugo natubos na kita sa aton mga sala sa aton mga sala
Suno sa Kasuguan, kon ang isa ka tawo ginakabig nga mahigko, kinahanglan wisikan siya sang dugo sang kanding kag sang turo nga baka kag sang abo sang bataon nga baka nga ginsunog para mangin limpyo siya sa iya nga pagkahigko.
Karon, kon ina gani makalimpyo, mas labi na gid nga makalimpyo ang dugo ni Cristo. Kay paagi sa Espiritu Santo Santo nga wala sing katapusan ginhalad ni Cristo sa Dios ang iya kaugalingon bilang halad nga wala gid sing deperensya sa panulok sang Dios. Ang iya dugo amo ang nagalimpyo sa aton tagipusuon kag hunahuna para talikdan ta ang mga wala sing pulos nga mga buhat kag alagaran ta na ang Dios nga buhi.
Gani si Cristo amo ang manugpatunga sa aton kag sa Dios sa aton kag sa Dios sa bag-o nga kasugtanan. Kay paagi sa iya kamatayon gintubos niya ang mga tawo nga naglapas sa una nga kasugtanan. Amo ina nga makabaton na ang mga gintawag sang Dios sang Dios sang mga butang nga iya ginpromisa nga mangin ila hasta san-o.
Amo ina nga bisan ang una nga kasugtanan nagkinahanglan man sang dugo para mapabakod.
Kay sang pagtudlo ni Moises sa mga tawo sang tanan nga sugo sang Kasuguan, nagkuha siya dayon sang dugo sang mga bataon nga baka kag sang mga kanding kag ginsimbugan niya sing tubig. Pagkatapos ginwisikan niya ang ginsulatan sang Kasuguan kag ang mga tawo. Ang iya gin-gamit nga pangwisik bulbol sang karnero nga ginlugom sa pula kag ginhigot sa sanga sang isopo.
Pagkatapos nagsiling si Moises sa mga tawo, “Amo ini ang dugo nga nagapabakod sa kasugtanan nga ginhatag sang Dios nga ginapatuman sa inyo.”
Kag ginwisikan man niya ang Tolda nga Simbahan pati ang tanan nga kagamitan sini sa pagsimba sa Dios.
Suno sa Kasuguan, halos tanan nga gamit sa pagsimba ginalimpyuhan paagi sa dugo. Kag kon wala sing dugo nga gin-ula bilang halad sa Dios bilang halad sa Dios wala sing kapatawaran ang sala.
Gani kinahanglan nga limpyuhan sa sina nga paagi ang mga butang sa ato nga simbahan nga butang sa ato nga simbahan nga larawan lang sang mga butang nga didto sa langit. Pero ang mga butang nga didto sa langit nagakinahanglan sing mas maayo pa nga halad.
Amo gani nga si Cristo wala nagsulod sa balaan nga lugar nga ginhimo sang tawo nga larawan lang sang matuod nga ara didto sa langit nga ara didto sa langit kundi nagsulod siya sa langit mismo. Kag subong didto siya nagapangatubang sa Dios para sa aton.
Ang pangulo nga pari sang mga Judio sang mga Judio nagasulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar kada tuig nga nagadala sang dugo sang mga sapat. Pero si Cristo kaisa gid lang naghalad sang iya kaugalingon, kag wala na niya ginliwat-liwat pa.
Tungod kay kon kinahanglan gid nga liwat-liwaton, ti kapila kuntani siya nag-antos halin pa sang pagtuga sang kalibutan. Pero kaisa gid lang siya nagkadto diri sa kalibutan para kuhaon ang aton aton mga sala paagi sa iya paghalad sang iya kaugalingon. Ini ginhimo niya sa katapusan sining panahon.
Ang tawo kaisa gid lang mapatay, kag pagkatapos hukman na siya sang Dios sang Dios .
Amo man si Cristo, kaisa lang siya napatay bilang halad para makuha ang mga sala sang mga tawo. Matuod nga mabalik siya liwat diri sa kalibutan, pero indi sa paghalad liwat para makuha ang aton aton mga sala, kundi sa pagluwas sang mga tawo nga nagahulat sa iya.
Ang Kasuguan landong lang sang maayo nga mga butang sa palaabuton. Ang Kasuguan mismo indi makapakamatarong sa mga tawo nga nagapalapit sa Dios paagi sa mga halad nga ginahalad kada tuig.
Kay kon nalimpyuhan na sila paagi sa mga halad, wala na kuntani sila ginakonsensya sang ila mga sala, kag indi na kinahanglan nga maghalad pa gid sila.
Pero ato nga mga halad nagapadumdom pa gani sa mga tawo kada tuig sang ila mga sala.
Tungod kay ang matuod, ang dugo sang mga turo nga baka kag sang mga kanding nga ila ginahalad indi gid makakuha sang ila mga sala.
kundi ginhimuan mo ako sang lawas nga akon ihalad.
kag mga halad sa pagpakatinlo.
O Dios, suno sa nasulat sa Kasulatan parte sa akon.’ ”
Premiro nagsiling si Cristo nga wala nagustuhan sang Dios ang nagkalain-lain nga halad, pati ang mga halad nga ginasunog kag mga halad sa pagpakatinlo. Ginsiling niya ini bisan matuod nga ini tanan ginahalad suno sa Kasuguan.
Pagkatapos nagsiling siya sa Dios sa Dios , “Ari ako sa pagtuman sang imo kabubut-on.” Gani paagi sini, nahibaluan ta nga gin-ilisan na sang Dios ang daan nga mga paghalad kag ang halad ni Cristo amo ang iya ginbulos.
Kag tungod kay gintuman ni Jesu-Cristo ang kabubut-on sang Dios, ginlimpyuhan niya kita sa aton mga sala. Natabo ini paagi sa iya paghalad sang iya kaugalingon nga lawas sing makaisa gid lang.
Ang mga pari adlaw-adlaw gid ang ila serbisyo didto sa simbahan sa paghalad sa Dios. Ugaling ang ila mga halad nga palareho man lang indi gid makakuha sang mga sala sang mga tawo.
Pero si Cristo kaisa gid lang naghalad para sa aton mga sala kag indi na gid kinahanglan nga liwaton pa. Pagkatapos nagpungko siya sa tuo sang Dios.
Kag subong didto na siya nagahulat hasta sa tion nga paampuon sang Dios sa iya ang iya mga kaaway.
Gani paagi sa isa ka halad, ginhimo niya nga wala sing kakulangan hasta san-o ang mga ginapakabalaan niya.
Ang Espiritu Santo mismo nagapamatuod sa aton parte sa sini nga mga butang parte sa sini nga mga butang , kay nagsiling siya,
kag isulat ko ini sa ila hunahuna.’ ”
kag ang ila malain nga mga ginhimo.”
Gani tungod kay ang aton mga sala napatawad na, indi na kinahanglan nga magsagi pa kita halad para sa aton mga sala.
Gani mga kauturan, tungod sa dugo ni Jesus nga iya gin-ula para sa aton, hilway na kita nga magsulod sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar.
Kay paagi sa paghalad sang iya lawas, gin-abrihan niya para sa aton ang bag-o nga alagyan para makasulod kita sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar para makasulod kita sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar nga ara sa pihak sang kurtina. Kag ang ini nga alagyan nagadala sa aton sa kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Makagagahom ang aton pari nga nagadumala sa balay sang Dios.
Gani magpalapit kita sa Dios sa Dios nga may sinsero nga tagipusuon kag pagtuo nga wala gid nagapangduhaduha. Kay nahibaluan ta nga ginlimpyuhan
Magpakabakod kita sa aton paglaom kag indi kita magpangduhaduha, tungod kay ang Dios nga nagpromisa masaligan gid sa pagtuman sang iya mga ginpromisa sang iya mga ginpromisa .
Kag tinguhaan ta gid nga mapukaw ang balatyagon sang kada isa nga maghigugma kag maghimo sang maayo.
Indi ta gid pagpabay-an ang aton kinabatasan nga pagtilipon, pareho sang pagpabaya nga ginahimo sang iban, kundi palig-unon ta ang isa kag isa, labi na gid subong nga makita ta na nga malapit na lang ang pagbalik sang Ginoo.
Kay kon nakahibalo na kita sang kamatuoran kag padayon pa gid kita sa pagpakasala, wala na sing halad nga sarang ihalad para mapatawad ang aton mga sala.
Ang tawo nga nagapakasala nagapaabot na lang sang makahaladlok nga paghukom kag masingkal nga kalayo nga ginpreparar sang Dios para sa mga nagakontra sa iya.
Indi bala sang una ang tawo nga makalapas sang Kasuguan ni Moises ginapatay nga wala sing luoy-luoy kon may duha ukon tatlo ka tawo nga makapamatuod nga nakasala siya?
Gani kon amo sina, sigurado gid nga mas grabe pa gid ang silot sa tawo nga nagayaguta sa Anak sang Dios kag nagabaliwala sa dugo nga nagpabakod sa kasugtanan sang Dios sang Dios , nga amo mismo ang naglimpyo sa iya mga sala. Kay ginainsulto niya ang maluluy-on nga Espiritu Santo Santo .
Kay kilala ta ang Dios nga nagsiling, “Ako ang magabalos; ako ang magasilot sa ila sa ila .”
Kag makahaladlok gid kon ang Dios nga buhi amo ang magsilot.
Dumduma ninyo sang una, sang kamo bag-o pa lang nasanagan. Madamo nga kabudlayan kag pagtilaw ang inyo naagyan, pero gin-agwanta gid lang ninyo kag wala gid man kamo nadaog.
Kon kaisa ginapakahuy-an kamo kag ginasakit sa atubangan mismo sang mga tawo. Kag kon kaisa bisan indi kamo ang ginahimuan sini kundi ang inyo mga kaupod, nag-antos gihapon kamo tungod kay naluoy kamo sa ila.
Naluoy man kamo sa inyo kapareho nga mga tumuluo nga inyo kapareho nga mga tumuluo nga ginpriso. Kag bisan gin-agaw sa inyo ang inyo mga pagkabutang gin-antos ninyo ini nga may kalipay tungod kay nahibaluan ninyo nga may ara pa kamo gihapon nga mas maayo pa nga butang kag indi gid madula hasta san-o.
Gani indi ninyo pagdulaa ang inyo pagsalig sa Dios sa Dios , kay may dako gid ini nga balos para sa inyo.
Kinahanglan nga magmainantuson kamo para matuman ninyo ang kabubut-on sang Dios kag mabaton ninyo ang iya ginpromisa.
indi na siya magpadugay.”
Pero kon magtalikod siya sa akon indi ako malipay sa iya.”
Pero kita indi pareho sa mga tawo nga nagatalikod sa Dios kag nagakawala dayon, kundi hugot ang aton pagtuo sa iya, gani maluwas kita.
May pagtuo kita kon hugot ang aton pagsalig nga mabaton ta ang aton ginalauman kag nasiguro ta nga mabaton gid naton ini bisan wala pa naton makita.
Tungod sa pagtuo sang aton mga katigulangan gindayaw sila sang Dios.
Tungod sa pagtuo, nahibaluan ta nga ang kalibutan ginhimo paagi sa paghambal sang Dios. Gani ang mga butang nga aton makita ginhimo halin sa indi makita.
Tungod sa pagtuo, naghalad si Abel sa Dios sang halad nga mas maayo sang sa kay Cain. Kag tungod sa iya pagtuo ginkabig siya sang Dios nga matarong, kay ginbaton sang Dios ang iya halad. Gani bisan patay na si Abel may ginatudlo siya gihapon sa aton paagi sa iya pagtuo.
Tungod sa pagtuo, wala mapatay si Enoc kundi ginsaylo siya sa pihak nga kabuhi. “Wala na siya makita diri sa duta tungod kay ginsaylo siya sang Dios.”
Ang tawo nga wala sing pagtuo indi gid makahatag sing kalipay sa Dios. Tungod kay ang bisan sin-o nga nagapalapit sa Dios kinahanglan magtuo nga may Dios kag magtuo nga siya ang nagahatag sang balos sa mga tawo nga nagapangita sa iya.
Tungod sa pagtuo, ginpati ni Noe ang paandam sang Dios parte sa mga magakalatabo bisan wala pa niya ini makita. Gani naghimo siya sang barko para maluwas siya kag ang iya pamilya. Kag paagi sa iya pagtuo ginhukman ang mga tawo sa kalibutan, pero siya ya ginkabig sang Dios nga matarong.
Tungod sa pagtuo, gintuman ni Abraham ang ginsiling sang Dios nga magkadto siya sa lugar nga ginpromisa sa iya. Ginbayaan niya ang iya lugar bisan wala siya nakahibalo kon diin gid ang lugar nga kadtuan niya.
Kag tungod man sa pagtuo, nag-estar si Abraham sa sadto nga duta nga ginpromisa sa iya sa iya bisan nag-estar lang siya sa mga tolda nga daw sa estranghero kaupod sang iya anak nga sang iya anak nga si Isaac kag sang iya apo nga sang iya apo nga si Jacob, nga kapareho niya nga magabaton sang promisa sang Dios.
Kay ang matuod, ang matuod, ang siyudad nga ginapaabot ni Abraham wala sing iban kundi ang siyudad nga mabakod gid, nga ginplano kag ginpatindog sang Dios mismo.
Tungod man sa pagtuo, nakapabata pa si Abraham bisan tigulang na gid siya kag bisan baw-as pa ang iya asawa nga si Sara, kay ginkabig niya nga masaligan ang Dios nga nagpromisa nga makabata si Sara nga makabata si Sara .
Gani halin kay Abraham, nga wala na gid sing paglaom nga makapabata, naghalin ang mga kaliwat nga pareho kadamo sang bituon sa langit kag pareho man sang balas sa baybay nga indi maisip.
Ini tanan nga tawo nagkalamatay nga nagatuo. Wala nila nabaton ang ginpromisa sang Dios sang buhi pa sila, pero nasiguro nila nga magaabot ang adlaw nga mabaton gid nila ang ila ginapaabot. Gin-ako nila nga sila mga estranghero lang kag indi taga-diri sa sining kalibutan.
Ang mga tawo nga nagahambal pareho sina nagapakilala lang nga ginapangita nila ang lugar nga puwede nila masiling nga ila gid.
Wala na nila pagdumduma ang lugar nga ila ginhalinan, tungod kay kon gindumdom pa nila, may kahigayunan sila sa pagbalik didto.
Pero ang ila ginhimo, ginpalabi gid nila ang mas maayo nga lugar, kag ini wala sing iban kundi ang siyudad nga didto mismo sa langit. Gani wala mahuya ang Dios nga tawgon nila siya nga ila Dios, kay ginpreparahan niya sila sang isa ka siyudad.
Kay nagapati siya nga kon mapatay gid man si Isaac banhawon man siya sang Dios. Gani daw sa nabanhaw si Isaac halin sa kamatayon kag nakabalik kay Abraham.
Tungod sa pagtuo, ginbendisyunan ni Isaac ang iya mga anak nga si Jacob kag si Esau nga mangin maayo ang ila palaabuton.
Tungod sa pagtuo, sang mapatay na si Jacob, ginbendisyunan niya ang iya mga apo nga mga anak ni Jose. Kag nagsimba siya sa Dios samtang nagapanukod sa iya baston.
Tungod sa pagtuo, nagsiling si Jose sang madali na lang siya mapatay, nga ang mga Israelinhon magahalin sa Egypt, kag nagbilin siya nga dal-on nila ang iya mga tul-an kon maglakat na sila.
Tungod sa pagtuo, ang mga ginikanan ni Moises wala mahadlok nga maglapas sa sugo sang hari, tungod kay sang pagkakita nila nga guwapo ang ila anak gintago nila ini sa sulod sang tatlo ka bulan.
Kag tungod sa pagtuo, wala nagsugot si Moises sang may edad na siya nga tawgon pa siya nga anak sang prinsesa nga anak sang prinsesa nga anak sang hari sang Egypt.
Ginpalabi pa niya ang pag-antos upod sa mga katawhan sang Dios sang sa magpangalipay sa sala sa malip-ot lang nga tion.
Ginkabig niya nga mas madamo nga pagpakamaayo ang iya mabaton kon mag-antos siya sang mga kahuy-anan para kay Cristo kaysa maangkon niya ang tanan nga manggad sa Egypt. Kay nagapaabot siya nga may balos siya nga mabaton.
Kag tungod sa pagtuo, naghalin si Moises sa Egypt nga wala nahadlok nga mangakig ang hari sa iya. Nagpadayon siya bisan mabudlay kay daw nakita niya ang indi makita nga Dios nga Dios .
Tungod sa iya pagtuo, gin-umpisahan niya ang pagselebrar sang ginatawag nga “Piesta sang Paglabay sang Anghel.” Ginsilingan niya ang tanan nga Israelinhon nga wisikan nila sang dugo sang karnero sang karnero ang ila mga puwertahan, para kon maglabay ang anghel sang Dios nga anghel sang Dios nga magapamatay sang mga kamagulangan, magalabay lang ini kag magalabay lang ini kag indi niya pag-ilakip ang ila mga kamagulangan.
Tungod sa pagtuo, nakatabok ang mga Israelinhon sa Mapula nga Dagat nga daw nagalakat lang sila sa mamala nga duta. Pero pagtabok sang mga taga-Egypt nga nagalagas sa ila, sila ya nagkalalumos.
Tungod sa pagtuo, narumpag ang pader sang Jerico sa tapos nga makamartsa ang mga Israelinhon sa palibot sini sa sulod sang isa ka semana.
Tungod sa pagtuo, si Rahab nga nagbaligya sang iya lawas wala mapatay kaupod sang mga taga-Jerico nga wala nagtuman sa Dios, kay ginbaton niya sing maalwan sa iya balay ang mga espiya nga ginsugo ni Josue nga ginsugo ni Josue .
Hasta na lang diri ang akon isugid sa inyo parte sa mga tawo nga nagtuo sa Dios sa inyo parte sa mga tawo nga nagtuo sa Dios , tungod kay kulangon kita sa tiyempo kon isugid ko pa sa inyo ang parte sa ila ni Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jefta, David, Samuel kag sa mga propeta sang una.
Tungod sa ila pagtuo, ginpamierde nila ang mga ginharian, nagdumala sila sing matarong, kag nabaton nila ang mga ginpromisa sang Dios sa ila. Tungod sa ila pagtuo, Tungod sa ila pagtuo, wala sila pagtukba sang mga leon,
wala sila napaso sa nagadabadaba nga kalayo, kag nalikawan nila ang kamatayon sa espada. Ang iban sa ila puwerte kaluya pero ginpabaskog sila sang Dios sang Dios . Nangin maisog sila sa inaway kag napierdi nila ang mga soldado sang iban nga banwa.
May mga babayi man nga tungod sa ila pagtuo sa Dios tungod sa ila pagtuo sa Dios , nabuhi liwat ang ila mga patay. Ang iban nga nagtuo sa Dios nga nagtuo sa Dios ginsakit hasta mapatay, tungod kay indi gid sila magbaton sang kondisyon nga kon magtalikod sila sa ila pagtuo mahilway sila. Kay nahibaluan nila nga magaabot ang adlaw nga banhawon sila sang Dios kag mabaton nila ang mas maayo pa nga kabuhi.
Ang iban sa ila ginyaguta kag ginhanot, kag may iban man nga ginpanggapos kag ginpangpriso.
Ang iban ginbato hasta mapatay, ang iban ginlagari hasta mautod, kag ang iban pa gid ginpamatay sa espada. Ang iban sa ila nagbayo na lang sang panit sang karnero kag kanding. Puwerte sila kaimol, kag ginhingabot kag ginpintasan sang mga tawo.
Napilitan sila nga magpanago sa kamingawan, sa kabukiran, sa mga kuweba, kag sa mga buho sang duta. Pero sa matuod lang, ang mga malain nga mga tawo diri sa kalibutan indi bagay nga mag-upod sa ila.
Sila nga tanan ginadayaw tungod sa ila pagtuo. Pero wala nila nabaton sa ila nga tiyempo ang ginpromisa sang Dios.
Kay may mas maayo pa nga plano ang Dios para sa aton, tungod kay gusto niya nga kita makaupod nila kon tumanon na niya ang iya ginpromisa.
Karon, kon parte sa aton, ang aton halimbawa pareho sa nagadalagan sa palumba nga ang aton halimbawa pareho sa nagadalagan sa palumba nga ginalibutan sang madamo nga tawo nga amo ang mga nagpamatuod sang ila pagtuo sa Dios. Gani bayaan ta ang mga sala nga nagahawid sa aton, ang tanan nga butang nga nagabalabag sa aton pagdalagan. Padayunon ta gid ang aton pagdalagan hasta sa katapusan.
Isintro ta ang aton panulok kay Jesus nga amo ang ginasandigan sang aton pagtuo halin sa ginsuguran hasta sa katapusan. Gin-antos niya ang paglansang sa krus kag ginbaliwala niya ang ini nga kahuy-anan, tungod kay ginhunahuna niya ang kalipay nga nagahulat para sa iya. Kag sa karon didto na siya nagapungko sa tuo sang trono sang Dios.
Agod indi magluya kag indi madula ang inyo pagtuo, hunahunaon ninyo permi kon daw ano ang mga pag-antos ni Jesus sa mga makasasala nga mga tawo nga nagkontra sa iya.
Ang matuod, wala pa man sing may ginpatay sa inyo tungod sa inyo pagkontra sa sala.
Indi ka magkaluya kon ginasabdong ka niya.
kag ginahanot niya ang tanan nga ginakabig niya nga iya mga anak.”
Gani antusa ninyo ang mga kabudlayan nga nagaabot sa inyo ang mga kabudlayan nga nagaabot sa inyo , kay isa ina ka pagdisiplina sang Dios sa inyo tungod kay ginakabig niya kamo nga iya mga anak. Indi bala nga wala sing bata nga wala ginadisiplina sang iya amay?
Kon wala kamo ginadisiplina sang Dios pareho sang naagyan sang tanan niya nga mga anak, ti indi niya kamo matuod nga mga anak.
Indi bala nga gindisiplina kita sang aton tawhanon nga mga amay, kag sa pihak sina ginatahod naton sila? Ti kundi labi pa gid nga magpasakop kita sa pagdisiplina sang pagdisiplina sang aton espiritual nga Amay para mangin maayo ang aton kabuhi.
Ang aton mga amay diri sa duta nagdisiplina sa aton sa malip-ot lang nga tion, kag suno man lang sa ila hunahuna kon ano ang maayo para sa aton. Pero ang Dios iya nagadisiplina sa aton para gid sa aton kaayuhan, para mangin matarong kita pareho sa iya.
Samtang ginadisiplina kita, daw wala kita malipay kundi nagakasubo. Pero sa ulihi ini nga pagdisiplina nagaresulta sang kalinong sa aton kabuhi tungod kay paagi sini nagatadlong ang aton pamatasan.
Gani magpakabakod kamo.
Magpadayon kamo sa tadlong nga dalan
Tinguhai ninyo nga mangin maayo ang inyo relasyon sa tanan nga tawo, kag tinguhai man ninyo nga mangin matarong ang inyo kabuhi. Kay kon indi matarong ang inyo kabuhi indi ninyo makita ang Ginoo.
Mag-andam kamo kay basi kon may ara sa inyo nga magtalikod sa grasya sang Dios, kag basi kon may ara sa inyo nga magpanggamo, kag madamo ang kabuhi nga mahigkuan.
Mag-andam man kamo nga wala sing bisan isa sa inyo nga maghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon ukon magsunod kay Esau nga ginbaliwala lang niya ang espiritual nga mga butang. Kay ang iya kinamatarong bilang kamagulangan ginbaylo niya sa isa lamang ka kalan-an.
Nahibaluan man ninyo nga sang ulihi gusto niya nga maangkon ang bendisyon para sa pagkamagulang pero wala siya paghatagi. Kay indi na niya mabag-o ang iya ginhimo bisan ginhibian pa niya.
Ang inyo pagpalapit sa Dios indi pareho sang pagpalapit sang mga Israelinhon. Nagpalapit sila sa bukid nga makita nila, sa Bukid sang Sinai nga Bukid sang Sinai nga may nagadabdab nga kalayo, may makahaladlok nga kadulom, kag may mabaskog nga hangin nga nagahuyop.
May nabatian sila nga tunog sang budyong kag may nagahambal pa. Kag pagkabati nila sang sadto nga tingog nagpakitluoy sila nga kon mahimo indi na siya maghambal sa ila.
Kay hinadlukan gid sila sa iya ginsiling, “ Ang bisan sin-o Ang bisan sin-o , bisan sapat, nga magpalapit sa bukid dapat nga batuhon hasta mapatay.”
Makahaladlok gid ang ila nakita didto kag bisan gani si Moises nagsiling nga nagkurog siya sa kahadlok.
Ang inyo pagpalapit sa Dios indi pareho sadto. Kay Ang inyo pagpalapit sa Dios indi pareho sadto. Kay ang inyo ginpalapitan amo ang Bukid sang Zion, ang siyudad sang Dios nga buhi, ang langitnon nga Jerusalem nga may linibo ka anghel.
Nagpalapit kamo Nagpalapit kamo sa malipayon nga pagtililipon sang mga ginakabig nga kamagulangan nga mga anak sang Dios nga mga anak sang Dios , nga ang ila mga ngalan nasulat na didto sa langit. Nagpalapit kamo Nagpalapit kamo sa Dios nga amo ang magahukom sa tanan, kag sa mga espiritu sang mga tawo sang mga tawo nga ginpakamatarong sang Dios sang Dios kag wala na gid sing sala.
Nagpalapit kamo Nagpalapit kamo kay Jesus nga amo ang manugpatunga sa aton kag sa Dios sa aton kag sa Dios sa bag-o nga kasugtanan, kag sa iya dugo nga gin-ula nga ang mensahe sini mas maayo pa sang sa dugo ni Abel nga nagapangayo sang balos nga nagapangayo sang balos .
Gani mag-andam kamo kag indi magpabungol sa ginahambal sang Dios sa inyo. Ang mga tawo sang una nga wala nagpati sa naghambal sa ila diri sa duta wala makalikaw sa silot. Gani paano kita makalikaw sa silot kon indi kita magpati sa nagahambal nga halin sa langit?
Sang una nag-uyog ang duta tungod sa tingog sang Dios. Pero subong nagpromisa siya nga sa palaabuton nga mga inadlaw uyugon niya ini sing kaisa pa gid, kag pati na ang langit.
Ang “kaisa pa” nagakahulugan nga dulaon na niya ang tanan nga ginhimo nga puwede mauyog, kag ang indi mauyog amo ang mabilin.
Gani magpasalamat kita sa Dios tungod kay katapo na kita sang iya ginharian nga indi mauyog. Magsimba kita sa iya sa paagi nga iya naluyagan, nga may pagtahod kag kahadlok.
Kay kon magsilot ang aton Dios daw sa kalayo nga nagapang-upos.
Magpadayon kamo sa paghigugmaanay bilang mag-ulutod.
Indi kamo malipat sa pagbaton sang mga pangayaw sa inyo balay. May mga tawo sang una nga naghimo sina, kag wala sila nakahibalo nga ato gali ang ila mga bisita mga anghel.
Dumduma ninyo ang inyo kapareho nga mga tumuluo nga inyo kapareho nga mga tumuluo nga ara sa prisohan, kag ang mga ginapintasan. Batyaga ninyo ang ila kahimtangan Batyaga ninyo ang ila kahimtangan nga daw kamo mismo ara sa prisohan kaupod nila ukon ginapintasan.
Ang kada isa dapat maghatag sang bili sa pag-asawahay. Gani indi gid kamo magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki tungod kay silutan sang Dios ang mga tawo nga imoral.
Dapat ang inyo pagkabuhi wala nagahigugma sa kuwarta. Magkontento kamo sa mga butang nga ara sa inyo, tungod kay nagsiling ang Dios, “Indi ko gid kamo pagbayaan ukon pagpabay-an.”
gani indi ako mahadlok. Ano ang mahimo sang tawo sa akon?”
Dumduma ninyo ang inyo mga manugdumala nga nagtudlo sa inyo sang pulong sang Dios. Hunahunaa ninyo ang resulta sang ila pagkabuhi. Sunda ninyo ang ila pagtuo.
Si Jesu-Cristo wala gid nagaliwat. Amo siya sang una, subong, kag hasta san-o.
Indi kamo magpadala-dala sa nagkalain-lain nga pagpanudlo nga lain sang sa kamatuoran nga inyo nabaton. Mas maayo nga palig-unon ta ang aton pagtuo paagi sa bulig sang Dios, kag indi sa pagsunod sang mga pagsulundan parte sa mga pagkaon. Wala gid sing may makuha ang mga tawo nga nagasunod sa sina nga mga pagsulundan.
Kita nga mga tumuluo nga mga tumuluo may halaran, kag ang mga pari nga pari nga nagaserbisyo sa Tolda nga Simbahan wala sing kinamatarong nga magkaon sa aton halaran.
Kay ang dugo sang mga sapat nga halad sa pagpakatinlo ginadala sang pangulo nga pari didto sa Labing Balaan nga Lugar, pero ang lawas sang ato nga mga sapat ginadala sa guwa sang kampo kag didto ginasunog.
Kag pareho man sini ang natabo kay Jesus tungod kay didto man siya ginpatay sa guwa sang banwa, agod paagi sa iya dugo matinluan niya ang mga tawo sa ila mga sala.
Gani magkadto kita kay Jesus sa guwa sang kampo kag magpakigbahin sang iya mga gin-antos nga kahuy-anan.
Tungod kay wala sing permanente nga banwa diri sa kalibutan sa kalibutan nga para sa aton nga mga tumuluo, kundi nagahulat kita sang banwa nga sa palaabuton.
Gani maghalad kita permi sang mga pagdayaw sa Dios paagi kay Jesus. Ini amo ang mga halad nga nagahalin sa aton bibig kag nagakilala kon sin-o siya.
Indi kamo malipat nga maghimo sang maayo kag magbinuligay, kay amo ini ang mga halad nga nagahatag sang kalipay sa Dios.
Tumana ninyo ang mga tumuluo nga tumuluo nga nagadumala sa inyo kag magpasakop kamo sa ila, tungod kay ini sila amo ang nagaasikaso sang inyo espiritual nga kahimtangan. Kag nahibaluan man nila nga magaabot ang adlaw nga magapanabat sila sa Dios parte sa ila pag-atipan sa inyo. Kon tumanon ninyo sila, magaalagad sila nga may kalipay, pero kon indi, magakasubo sila kag indi ini makabulig sa inyo.
Pangamuyui ninyo kami permi, kay sigurado kami nga limpyo ang amon konsensya tungod kay nagapaninguha kami permi nga maghimo sang maayo.
Labi na gid nga ipangamuyo ninyo nga pabalikon ako sang Dios dira sa inyo sa labing madali.
Kag ako nagapangamuyo man sa Dios para sa inyo, sa Dios nga nagahatag sang kalinong. Siya ang nagbanhaw sa aton Ginoong Jesus, nga amo ang Makagagahom nga Manugbantay sa aton nga bilang iya aton nga bilang iya mga karnero. Kay tungod sa iya dugo ginpabakod niya ang wala sing katapusan nga kasugtanan.
Kabay pa nga ihatag niya sa inyo ang tanan nga makapaayo sa inyo para mahimo ninyo ang iya kabubut-on. Kag kabay pa nga paagi kay Jesu-Cristo himuon niya sa aton ang iya gusto. Dayawon ta siya hasta san-o. Amen.
Mga kauturan, nagapangabay ako nga pamatian ninyo sing maayo ang akon mga ginalaygay, kay manubo man lang ining akon sulat sa inyo.
Gusto ko nga mahibaluan ninyo nga ang aton utod nga si Timoteo ginpaguwa na sa prisohan. Kon mag-abot siya dayon, dal-on ko siya kon magkadto ako dira.
Kamusta na lang sa inyo mga manugdumala dira kag sa tanan nga katawhan sang Dios. Nagapangamusta man sa inyo ang aton mga kauturan nga taga-Italia.
Ako Ako si Santiago nga ulipon sang Dios kag ni Ginoong Jesu-Cristo. Nagapangamusta ako Nagapangamusta ako sa inyo tanan nga anak sang Dios
Mga kauturan ko, magkalipay kamo kon mag-abot sa inyo ang sari-sari nga mga pagtilaw.
Kay nahibaluan ninyo nga ang mga pagtilaw sa inyo pagtuo nagaresulta sang pagbatas.
Gani batasa ninyo ang tanan nga kabudlayan para mangin mature kamo kag wala sing ano man nga kakulangan ang inyo nga pagkabuhi ang inyo nga pagkabuhi .
Kon may ara sa inyo nga kulang sang kaalam, magpangayo siya sa Dios, kag ang Dios magahatag sini sa iya nga wala sing hawid-hawid kag aligutgot.
Pero kon magpangayo kamo, dapat magsalig kamo nga ihatag niya ang inyo ginapangayo kag indi kamo magpangduhaduha. Kay ang tawo nga nagapangduhaduha, pareho siya sang balod nga ginahuyop kag ginapalid sang hangin.
Ang mga kauturan nga imol dapat magkalipay sa pagpadungog sang Dios sang Dios sa ila.
Ang mga manggaranon dapat man magkalipay sa pagpaubos sang Dios sang Dios sa ila. Kay pareho sang mga bulak sang hilamon ang manggaranon magataliwan man.
Malaya ang hilamon samtang nagataas kag nagasingkal ang init sang adlaw. Dayon mahulog ang iya bulak kag madula ang iya katahom. Pareho man sini ang manggaranon, mapatay siya samtang masako sa iya mga buluhaton.
Bulahan ang tawo nga nagabatas sang mga pagtilaw, kay sa tapos nga madaog niya ang mga pagtilaw, magabaton siya sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan bilang padya nga ginpromisa sang Dios sa mga nagahigugma sa iya.
Kon may mga temtasyon nga nagaabot sa aton, indi kita magsiling nga ginatentar kita sang Dios. Ang Dios indi matentar sa paghimo sang malain, kag wala siya nagatentar bisan kay sin-o.
Ang tawo ginatentar kon ginaguyod kag ginaganyat siya sang iya malain nga handom.
Kag kon ang iya malain nga handom matuman, ang resulta sini amo ang paghimo sang sala; kag kon magpadayon ang tawo sa pagpakasala, ang iya padulungan amo ang kamatayon.
Gani mga hinigugma ko nga mga utod, indi pagpatalanga ang inyo kaugalingon.
Kay ang tanan nga maayo kag nagakabagay gid nga aton nabaton nagahalin sa aton aton Amay. Siya amo ang naghimo sang mga butang sa langit nga nagahatag kasanag. Kag bisan ini nga mga butang nagaliwat kag nagabaylo ang ila landong, ang Dios wala gid nagabaylo.
Suno sa iya kabubut-on, ginhimo niya kita nga iya mga anak paagi sa aton pagkilala sang kamatuoran, para mangin una kita sa tanan niya nga tinuga.
Mga hinigugma ko nga mga utod, tandai ninyo ini: dapat mangin handa kita sa pagpamati, indi magpadasodaso sa paghambal, kag indi magpadali-dali sa pagpangakig.
Kay ang kaakig sang tawo indi gid makabulig sa iya nga mangin matarong sa atubangan sang Dios.
Gani bayai ninyo ang tanan nga kahigkuan kag kalautan. Batuna ninyo nga may pagpaubos ang pulong sang Dios nga gintanom sa inyo mga tagipusuon, nga amo man ang makaluwas sa inyo.
Indi lamang kamo magpamati sa pulong sang Dios sang Dios kundi dapat tumanon ninyo ini. Kay kon indi, ginadayaan lang ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagapamati pero wala nagatuman sang pulong sang Dios sang Dios , pareho siya sang tawo nga nagatan-aw sa espiho,
kag pagkatapos nga makita niya ang iya hitsura, naglakat siya kag nalipatan niya dayon kon ano ang iya hitsura.
Pero ang tawo nga nagausisa sing maayo sa kasuguan nga wala sing sala nga nagahilway sa mga tawo, kag indi nga nagapamati lang kag nagakalipat dayon, kundi nagapadayon gid sa pagtuman, pakamaayuhon siya sang Dios sa iya mga ginahimo.
Kon may tawo nga nagahunahuna nga siya relihiyuso pero indi makapugong sang iya dila, ang iya pagkarelihiyuso wala sing pulos kag ginadayaan lang niya ang iya kaugalingon.
Ang pagkarelihiyuso nga ginakabig sang Dios nga Amay nga matarong kag wala sing kasawayan amo ini: ang pagbulig sa mga ilo kag sa mga balo sa ila mga kalisod, kag ang paglikaw sa tanan nga kalautan sining kalibutan.
Mga kauturan ko, bilang mga tumuluo sang aton makagagahom nga Ginoong Jesu-Cristo, dapat wala kita pinilian sa aton pagtratar sa aton isigkatawo.
Halimbawa, may duha ka tawo nga magkadto sa inyo pagtilipon: ang isa manggaranon nga manggaranon nga may bulawan nga mga singsing kag may malahalon nga bayo, kag ang isa imol nga gisi ang iya bayo.
Kon palabihon ninyo ang tawo nga nagabayo sang malahalon kag hatagan ninyo sing maayo nga pulungkuan, pero ang imol patindugon lang ninyo, ukon papungkuon lang sa salog,
ti may pinilian kamo kag ginahukman ninyo ang mga imol suno sa inyo malain nga hunahuna.
Pamati kamo mga hinigugma ko nga mga utod! Ginpili sang Dios ang mga imol diri sa kalibutan para magmanggaranon sila sa pagtuo kag masakop sila sa iya nga paghari nga ginpromisa niya sa mga nagahigugma sa iya.
Pero ang inyo ginahimo, ginapakanubo ninyo ang mga imol. Indi bala nga ang mga manggaranon amo ang nagadaogdaog kag nagaakusar sa inyo?
Indi bala nga sila amo man ang nagapakalain sang talahuron nga ngalan ni Jesu-Cristo nga sa sina nga ngalan kilala kamo?
Pero kon ginasunod ninyo ang kasuguan sang Hari, nga nasulat sa Kasulatan nga nagasiling, “Higugmaon mo ang imo isigkatawo pareho sang paghigugma mo sa imo kaugalingon,”
Pero kon may pinilian kamo, nakasala kamo kag suno sa Kasuguan dapat kamo silutan, kay ginalapas ninyo ato nga sugo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagatuman sa bilog nga Kasuguan pero nakalapas sa isa ka sugo, nakalapas sa tanan nga Kasuguan.
Kay ang nagasiling, “Indi ka magpanginbabayi ukon magpanginlalaki,” amo man ang nagasiling, “Indi ka magpatay.”
Gani mag-andam kamo sa inyo paghambal kag pagginawi, tungod nga ang Kasuguan nga nagahilway sa inyo amo man ang magahukom sa inyo.
Kay sa oras nga ang Dios maghukom, indi siya magkaluoy sa tawo nga wala sing kaluoy. Pero ang maluluy-on wala dapat kahadlukan sa oras sang paghukom.
Mga kauturan ko, ano bala ang makuha sang tawo kon magsiling siya, “May pagtuo ako,” pero ini nga pagtuo ini nga pagtuo wala ginaupdi sang maayo nga maayo nga mga binuhatan? Maluwas bala siya sa sina nga klase sang pagtuo?
Abi may utod kita nga nagakinahanglan sang bayo kag pagkaon,
kag ang isa sa inyo magsiling sa iya, “Kabay pa nga pakamaayuhon ka sang Dios, indi ka magpatugnaw kag magpagutom,” pero wala man niya siya paghatagi sang iya mga kinahanglanon, ti, ano ang maayo nga nahimo sina?
Amo man ang pagtuo; kon wala ginaupdi sang maayo nga maayo nga mga binuhatan, ina nga pagtuo patay
Pero basi kon may ara sa inyo nga magsiling, “May pagtuo ako kag ikaw ya may mga binuhatan.” Ang sabat ko amo ini, Ang sabat ko amo ini, paano ko makita ang imo pagtuo kon wala ka sang mga binuhatan? Pero ipakita ko sa imo nga may pagtuo ako paagi sa akon mga binuhatan.
Nagapati ka nga may isa lamang ka Dios. Maayo gid! Pero ang mga demonyo nagapati man kag nagakurog pa gani sa kahadlok sa Dios pa gani sa kahadlok sa Dios .
Buang-buang ka! Gusto mo bala nga pamatud-an ko sa imo nga ang pagtuo nga wala ginaupdi sang maayo nga maayo nga mga binuhatan wala gid sing pulos?
Paano ginpakamatarong sang Dios sang Dios ang aton katigulangan nga si Abraham? Indi bala nga paagi sa iya mga binuhatan? Sa iya pagtuman sa Dios, ginhalad niya ang iya anak nga si Isaac sa halaran.
Ti, nakita mo? Ang iya pagtuo kag ang iya mga binuhatan nag-updanay. Ang iya pagtuo napamatud-an nga matuod gid
Napamatud-an ang ginasiling sang Kasulatan, “Nagtuo si Abraham sa Dios, kag tungod sang iya pagtuo ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios sang Dios .”
Gani nakita ta nga ang tawo ginapakamatarong sang Dios paagi sa iya mga binuhatan kag indi lamang paagi sa iya pagtuo.
Amo man ini ang natabo kay Rahab nga nagbaligya sang iya lawas. Ginbaton niya ang mga espiya nga Israelinhon sa iya balay kag gintago sila nga Israelinhon sa iya balay kag gintago sila . Gintudlo pa niya sa ila ang alagyan para makapalagyo sila. Gani tungod sa iya ginhimo ginpakamatarong siya sang Dios sang Dios .
Ang lawas nga wala sing espiritu patay; amo man ang pagtuo nga wala ginaupdi sang maayo nga maayo nga mga binuhatan, patay man.
Mga kauturan ko, indi lang basta-basta nga maghandom ang madamo sa inyo nga mangin manunudlo, kay nahibaluan ninyo nga mas maid-id ang paghukom sang Dios sa amon bilang mga manunudlo.
Matuod nga tanan kita masami nagakasala. Pero ang tawo nga wala nagakasala sa iya mga ginahambal, ina nga tawo matarong kag sarang makapugong sang iya kaugalingon.
Ang mga kabayo ginabusalan ta para mapasunod kon diin ta gusto pakadtuon.
Kag hunahunaa man bala ang mga sakayan: bisan ano kadako, kag ginahuyop sang mabaskog nga hangin, kontrolado ini sang diutay nga timon. Gani bisan diin pakadtuon sang timonil ang sakayan, didto ini nagakadto.
Amo man ini ang aton dila. Gamay lang ini pero sarang makapabugal sang dalagko nga mga butang. Hunahunaa bala ninyo kon ano kalapad nga kagulangan ang masunog sang gamay nga kalayo.
Ang dila pareho man sa kalayo. Masyado kadamo ang kalautan nga ginadala sang dila, kag nagaumid sa aton bilog nga pagkatawo. Ang mga malain nga ginahambal sang aton dila daw kalayo nga nagahalin gid sa impyerno kag amo ang nagaguba sa aton bilog nga pagkabuhi.
Ang tanan nga klase sang mga sapat, ang nagalakat, ang nagalupad, ang nagakamang kag ang nagalangoy, maanta sang tawo.
Pero wala gid sang tawo nga makakontrolar sang iya dila. Ang dila malain kag indi mapunggan, kag puno sang hilo nga makapatay.
Ang aton dila ginagamit ta sa pagpasalamat sa aton Ginoo kag Amay, pero ginagamit ta man sa pagpakamalaot sa aton isigkatawo nga gintuga nga kaangay sang Dios.
Pagpasalamat kag pagpakamalaot ang nagaguwa sa isa ka baba. Mga kauturan ko, indi ini dapat matabo.
Indi mahimo nga mag-ilig ang tubig nga matab-ang kag maasin sa isa lang ka tuburan.
Mga kauturan, indi mahimo nga magpamunga sang olibo ang kahoy nga higera, kag indi man mahimo nga magpamunga sang higera ang tanom nga ubas. Indi ka man makakuha sang tubig nga matab-ang sa dagat.
May ara bala sa inyo nga maalam kag makaintiendi? Ipakita niya nga maalam kag makaintiendi siya paagi sa maayo nga pagkabuhi nga may pagpaubos. Ang tawo indi maalam kon indi siya makapaubos.
Pero kon may kahisa kamo kag may maiyaiyahon nga handom, indi kamo magpabugal nga maalam kamo nga maalam kamo , kay nagabinutig kamo kontra sa kamatuoran.
Ina nga klase sang kaalam wala nagahalin sa Dios kundi iya sang kalibutan. Iya ina ni Satanas kag indi iya sang Espiritu Santo.
Kay kon diin ang kahisa kag pagkamaiyaiyahon, didto man ang pagginamo kag ang tanan nga klase sang mga kalautan.
Pero kon may kaalam kita nga halin sa Dios, una sa tanan, matinlo ang aton kabuhi, dason mainabyanon, malulo, mabinatunon sa mga pagpanudlo, maluluy-on gid, maayo ang ginahimo, palareho ang pagtratar sa isigkatawo, kag indi hipokrito.
Ang mga tawo nga may kalinong kag nagapanggas sang kalinong magapatubas sang matarong nga relasyon sa isa kag isa.
Ano bala ang ginahalinan sang inyo mga pag-ilinaway kag mga pagginamo? Indi bala nga tungod sa inyo malain nga mga handom nga nagaginamo sa sulod sang inyo tagipusuon?
May mga butang nga inyo ginahandom, ugaling indi ninyo maangkon, gani gusto ninyo magpatay. May mga butang nga inyo gid naluyagan kag kon indi ninyo maangkon, nagapangaway kamo. Indi ninyo maangkon ang inyo luyag tungod kay wala kamo nagapangayo sa Dios.
Kag kon nagapangayo kamo, wala kamo ginahatagi kay malain ang inyo tinutuyo. Ang mga butang nga inyo ginapangayo para lang sa inyo kaugalingon nga kalipayan.
Kamo nga mga pareho sang pareho sang babayi nga nagapanginlalaki, wala bala kamo kahibalo nga kon palabihon ninyo ang mga butang diri sa kalibutan, kaaway kamo sang Dios? Gani, kon palabihon ninyo ang mga butang diri sa kalibutan sang sa Dios, ginahimo ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon nga kaaway sang Dios.
Indi kamo maghunahuna nga wala sing pulos ining ginasiling sang Kasulatan: “Nagahandom nga may kaimon ang Dios sa espiritu nga ginpapuyo niya sa aton.”
Pero ginakaluoyan gid kita sang Dios. Amo ina nga nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ginakontra sang Dios ang bugalon, pero ginakaluoyan niya ang mapainubuson.”
Gani magpasakop kamo sa Dios. Pakigbatui ninyo ang yawa kag magapalagyo siya sa inyo.
Magpalapit kamo sa Dios, kag ang Dios magapalapit sa inyo. Kamo nga mga makasasala, magkabuhi kamo sang matinlo! Kag kamo nga nagapangduhaduha, tinlui ninyo ang inyo mga tagipusuon.
Magpangasubo kamo, maghibi sang tudo tungod sa inyo mga sala tungod sa inyo mga sala . Sa baylo nga magkadlaw kamo kag magkalipay, magpangasubo kamo.
Magpaubos kamo sa Ginoo, kag iya kamo pataason.
Mga kauturan, indi kamo maghambal sang malain kontra sa isa kag isa. Ang nagahambal sang malain kontra sa iya utod ukon nagahukom sa iya, nagahambal kontra sa Kasuguan, kag nagahukom man sa Kasuguan. Gani kon ikaw na ang nagahukom sa Kasuguan, indi ka na manugtuman sang Kasuguan kundi ikaw na ang hukom.
Pero ang Dios gid lang ang naghatag sang Kasuguan kag siya lang ang hukom. Siya gid lang ang sarang makaluwas ukon makasilot sa tawo. Gani, sin-o ka gid nga nagahukom sa imo isigkatawo?
Pamati kamo sa akon, kamo nga nagasiling, “Karon ukon buwas makadto kami sa isa ka siyudad. Didto kami maestar sang isa ka tuig. Manegosyo kami kag magtipon sang madamo nga kuwarta.”
Ang matuod, wala gani kamo kahibalo kon ano ang matabo sa inyo buwas. Kay ang aton kabuhi pareho sang ambon nga makita, kag sa indi lamang madugay madula.
Gani, amo ini ang inyo isiling, “Kon itugot sang Ginoo, kag kon buhi pa kita, amo ini ukon amo ina ang aton himuon.”
Pero karon, nagapabugal kamo kag nagapadayaw. Ang tanan nga pagpabugal nga pareho sina malain.
Kon nahibaluan sang tawo kon ano ang maayo nga dapat niya himuon, pero wala niya ginahimo, nagapakasala siya.
Kamo nga mga manggaranon, pamati kamo! Maghibi kamo sing tudo sa mga kalisod nga magaabot sa inyo.
Nagakadunot ang inyo mga manggad kag ginaut-ot sang mga sapat-sapat ang inyo mga bayo.
Ginatago lang ninyo ang inyo mga kuwarta kag indi man lang mapuslan. Sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw silutan kamo sa impyerno tungod sa inyo kuwarta nga wala ninyo paggamita sa kaayuhan. Kanugon lang sang inyo pagtipon kay ang kalibutan madali na lang matapos.
Pamatii ninyo ang mga reklamo sang mga tawo nga inyo ginpaobra sa inyo kaumahan pero wala ninyo pagsuhuli. Dapat ninyo mahibaluan nga ang mga paghibi sang inyo mga manug-ani nabatian sang Ginoo nga Makagagahom.
Nagpagusto kamo sa inyo kabuhi diri sa kalibutan. Pareho lang nga ginpatambok ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon para sa adlaw sang pag-ihaw.
Ginhukman ninyo kag ginpamatay ang mga tawo nga wala sing sala, bisan wala sila nagbato sa inyo.
Mga kauturan, magmainagwantahon kamo hasta sa pag-abot sang Ginoo. Tan-awa ninyo ang mga mangunguma, mainagwantahon sila nga nagahulat sa nahauna nga ulan. Pagkatapos nila tanom, mainagwantahon naman sila sa paghulat sang masunod nga ulan kag sang ila patubas.
Gani magmainagwantahon man kamo. Indi kamo magdula sang inyo paglaom, kay madali na lang mag-abot ang Ginoo.
Mga kauturan, indi kamo magbinasulay, para indi kamo pagsilutan sang Dios. Ang magahukom sa aton madali na lang mag-abot.
Himua ninyo nga sulundan ang pag-agwanta sang mga propeta nga ginsugo sang Ginoo nga maghambal para sa iya.
Indi bala nga ginakabig ta nga bulahan ang mga tawo nga nagabatas? Nabatian ninyo ang mga pagbatas ni Job, kag nahibaluan man ninyo kon paano siya ginbuligan sang Ginoo sang ulihi. Kay ang Ginoo maayo kag maluluy-on.
Mga kauturan, labaw sa tanan indi gid kamo magsumpa nga nagasiling, “Saksi ang langit,” ukon “Saksi ang duta,” ukon ang iban pa nga mga butang. Magsiling kamo “huo” kon huo ang inyo gusto ihambal kag “indi” kon indi, para indi kamo pagsilutan sang Dios.
May ara bala sa inyo nga nagaantos? Dapat magpangamuyo siya. May ara bala sa inyo nga malipayon? Magkanta siya sang mga pagdayaw.
May ara bala sa inyo nga nagamasakit? Magtawag siya sang mga manugdumala sang iglesya para pangamuyuan siya kag banyusan sang lana sa ngalan
Ang pangamuyo nga may pagtuo amo ang magaayo sa nagamasakit. Pabangunon siya sang Ginoo kag patawaron sa iya mga sala kon nakasala siya.
Gani, magtuad kamo sang inyo mga sala sa isa kag isa, kag magpangamuyuay para mag-ayo kamo. Kay dako ang mahimo sang pangamuyo sang matarong nga tawo,
pareho kay Propeta Propeta Elias. Siya tawo man nga pareho sa aton. Nagpangamuyo siya sang hugot sa iya tagipusuon nga indi mag-ulan, kag wala nag-ulan sa duta sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig kag tunga.
Pagkatapos nagpangamuyo naman siya nga mag-ulan, kag natuman ini. Dayon nagdamo ang patubas sang duta.
Mga kauturan ko, kon may isa sa inyo nga nagpalayo sa kamatuoran, kag may isa nga magpabalik sa iya,
dapat mahibaluan ninyo nga ang nagapabalik sa makasasala halin sa iya malain nga pagginawi magaluwas sang kalag sang sadto nga makasasala sa kamatayon, kag mapatawad ang madamo nga sala.
Ako Ako si Pedro nga apostol ni Jesu-Cristo. Nagapangamusta ako Nagapangamusta ako sa inyo tanan nga pinili sang Dios nga nagalalapta kag nagaestar bilang mga pangayaw sa Pontus, Galacia, Capadocia, Asia kag Bitinia.
Kabay pa nga mabaton ninyo ang dugang pa gid nga grasya
Kag paagi sa inyo pagtuo, ginatipigan kamo sang gahom sang Dios samtang nagahulat kamo sang kaluwasan nga ginapreparar na sang Dios sang Dios nga igapahayag
Gani sa sini magkalipay kamo bisan may nagaabot subong nga sari-sari nga mga pagtilaw. Kay ini nga mga pagtilaw umalagi lang, kag dapat gid nga mag-abot sa inyo
para tilawan ang inyo pagtuo kon bala ini matuod ukon indi. Ang halimbawa sini pareho sang bulawan nga ginapaagi sa kalayo para mahibaluan kon puro ukon indi. Pero mas importante ang aton pagtuo sang sa bulawan nga nagakadula. Gani kon mapamatud-an nga ang inyo pagtuo matuod gid, dayawon niya kamo kag padunggan sa adlaw nga si Jesu-Cristo magaabot.
Bisan wala kamo nakakita sa iya ginahigugma ninyo siya, kag nagatuo kamo sa iya bisan wala pa ninyo siya makita hasta subong. Amo ina nga ang inyo kalipay indi gid masaysay,
kay mabaton ninyo ang resulta sang inyo pagtuo nga amo ang inyo kaluwasan.
Ini nga kaluwasan gin-usisa sing maid-id sang mga propeta sadto anay. Sila amo ang nagpropesiya parte sa sini nga grasya sang Dios sa aton.
Ginpahibalo na sila nga daan sang Espiritu ni Cristo nga ara sa ila nga magaantos siya kag pagkatapos sina padunggan. Gani ang mga propeta sadto padayon sa ila pag-usisa kon san-o kag kon paano ini matabo.
Ginpahibalo man sila sang Dios nga ang mga butang nga ila ginasugid indi para sa ila kaayuhan kundi para sa aton.
Gani dapat handa permi ang inyo hunahuna sa paghimo sang maayo, magpugong sang inyo kaugalingon, kag magsalig sing bug-os nga mabaton ninyo ang pagpakamaayo nga igahatag sa inyo kon mag-abot na si Jesu-Cristo.
Bilang mga matinumanon nga mga anak sang Dios, indi kamo magpadala-dala sa malain nga mga handom nga nagagahom sa inyo sang wala pa kamo nakakilala sa Dios.
Balaan ang Dios nga nagtawag sa inyo, gani dapat magpakabalaan man kamo sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo.
Kay nagasiling ang Dios ang Dios sa Kasulatan, “Magkabuhi kamo nga balaan, kay ako balaan.”
Ang Dios wala sing may ginapasulabi. Nagahukom siya sa tanan nga tawo suno sa ila binuhatan. Gani kon ginatawag ninyo siya nga Amay kon nagapangamuyo kamo sa iya, tahuron ninyo siya samtang diri pa kamo nagadayon sa kalibutan.
Nahibaluan man ninyo kon ano ang ginbayad para matubos kamo halin sa pagkabuhi ninyo nga wala sing pulos nga inyo ginpanubli sa inyo mga katigulangan. Ang gintubos sa inyo indi mga butang nga madula, pareho sang bulawan ukon pilak,
kundi amo ang hamili nga dugo ni Cristo. Ang iya halimbawa pareho sang karnero nga matinlo kag wala gid deperensya nga ginhalad sa Dios.
Sa wala pa matuga ang kalibutan, ginpili na sang Dios si Cristo nga mangin aton Manluluwas nga mangin aton Manluluwas . Pero ginpakilala siya sang Dios sa sining ulihi nga mga inadlaw. Ginhimo niya ini para sa inyo.
Kag paagi kay Cristo nagatuo kamo sa Dios nga nagbanhaw kag nagpadungog sa iya. Gani ang inyo pagtuo ara sa Dios kag nagasalig kamo sa iya nga kamo banhawon kag padunggan man niya nga kamo banhawon kag padunggan man niya .
Kag tungod nga nagasunod na kamo sa kamatuoran, gintinluan na kamo sa inyo mga sala para may matuod kamo nga paghigugma sa inyo mga kauturan. Kabay pa nga maghigugmaanay kamo sing hugot gid sa inyo tagipusuon,
kay natawo na kamo liwat. Kag ini nga pagkatawo indi paagi sa inyo mga ginikanan nga inyo mga ginikanan nga may kamatayon, kundi paagi sa pulong sang Dios nga buhi kag wala sing katapusan.
Ang hilamon nagakalaya kag ang iya bulak nagakahulog,
Kag ini amo ang Maayong Balita nga ginwali sa inyo.
Tungod nga natawo na kamo liwat, bayai na ninyo ang tanan nga klase sang kalautan. Indi kamo magbutig ukon magpakuno-kuno. Indi kamo magkahisa ukon maghambal sing malain kontra sa inyo isigkatawo.
Pareho sang lapsag nga nagahandom sang gatas sang iya iloy, handuma man ninyo ang espiritual nga gatas nga wala sing simbog para magtubo kamo hasta mabaton ninyo ang kabug-usan sang kabug-usan sang inyo kaluwasan.
Kay naeksperiensyahan na ninyo nga ang Ginoo maayo gid.
Siya ang buhi nga bato nga ginsikway sang mga tawo pero ginpili sang Dios, kag malahalon sa iya panulok. Kag samtang nagapalapit kamo sa iya,
kamo nga bilang buhi man nga mga bato ginapatindog sang Dios bilang isa ka espiritual nga balay. Kag bilang mga pari nga pinili sang Dios, nagahalad kamo sa iya sang espiritual nga mga halad nga makahatag kalipay sa iya tungod nga ginahalad ini paagi kay Jesu-Cristo.
Ang nagatuo sa iya indi gid mahuy-an.”
amo ang nangin pundasyon nga bato.”
Nagakasandad sila kay wala sila nagapati sa pulong sang Dios. Amo ini ang kabubut-on sang Dios para sa ila.
Pero kamo pinili nga mga tawo, mga pari sang Hari, kag mga katawhan sang Dios. Nangin iya kamo para magsugid sang iya makatilingala nga mga binuhatan. Siya ang nagtawag sa inyo halin sa kadulom pakadto sa iya makatilingala nga kasanag.
Sang una indi kamo mga katawhan sang Dios, pero subong iya na kamo. Sang una wala kamo ginkaluoyan sang Dios, pero subong ginkaluoyan niya kamo.
Mga hinigugma, ang kalibutan indi inyo matuod nga elistaran. Mga pangayaw lang kamo diri. Gani nagapakitluoy ako sa inyo nga bayaan ninyo ang mga handom sang inyo lawas nga nagakontra sa inyo espiritu.
Ipakita ninyo permi sa mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios ang inyo maayo nga pagginawi. Kay kon nagasiling sila nga nagahimo kamo sing malain, pero makita nila sa ulihi nga maayo gali ang inyo ginahimo, dayawon nila ang Dios sa adlaw sang iya pag-abot.
Tungod sa Ginoo, magpasakop kamo sa tanan nga tawo nga may awtoridad sa banwa, mangin sa hari
ukon sa mga gobernador nga amo ang iya ginhatagan sang gahom nga magsilot sa mga nagahimo sang malain kag magpadungog sa mga nagahimo sang maayo.
Kay amo ini ang kabubut-on sang Dios, para kon maghimo kamo sing maayo wala sing hambalon ang mga tawo nga buang-buang nga wala pa makaintiendi sang kamatuoran.
Hilway na kamo, pero wala ini nagakahulugan nga hilway na kamo sa paghimo sang malain; kundi magkabuhi kamo bilang mga ulipon sang Dios.
Tahura ninyo ang tanan nga tawo, kag higugmaa ninyo ang inyo mga kauturan. Magkabuhi kamo nga may kahadlok sa Dios, kag tahura ninyo ang Emperador.
Kamo nga mga ulipon, tumana ninyo ang inyo mga amo nga may bug-os nga pagtahod,
Kay pakamaayuhon gid kamo sang Dios kon ginaagwanta ninyo ang mga pag-antos bisan wala kamo sing sala nga nahimo tungod kay gusto ninyo tumanon ang kabubut-on sang Dios.
Pero kon silutan kamo tungod sang inyo ginahimo nga malain, dayawon bala kamo sang Dios kon ginaagwanta ninyo ang silot nga ina? Siyempre indi! Siyempre indi! Pero kon ginasilutan kamo bisan pa nga maayo ang inyo ginahimo, kag kon ginaagwanta ninyo ini, kaluoyan gid kamo sang Dios.
Ang pag-antos ni Cristo para sa aton amo ang halimbawa nga dapat ta sundon. Kag amo ini ang katuyuan kon ngaa gintawag kita, para masunod ta ang kabuhi ni Cristo.
Wala gid siya nakasala, kag wala gid nagpangdaya.
Gin-insulto siya, pero wala gid siya nagbalos sang insulto. Ginsilutan siya, pero wala gid siya nagpamahog. Nagsalig siya sa Dios nga amo ang nagahukom sing ensakto gid.
Si Cristo mismo amo ang nag-ako sang aton mga sala sang ginlansang ang iya lawas sa krus, para indi na kita magpakasala kundi magkabuhi kita nga matarong. Tungod sa iya mga pilas gin-ayo kita.
Sang una pareho kita sa mga karnero nga nagtalang, pero subong nakabalik na kita sa Ginoo nga Ginoo nga Manug-atipan kag Manugbantay sang aton kabuhi.
Karon, kamo nga mga asawa, dapat magpasakop kamo sa inyo mga bana, para kon ang inyo mga bana wala nagatuo sa pulong sang Dios, madala ninyo sila sa Ginoo paagi sa inyo maayo nga pamatasan bisan indi na kamo maghambal.
Kay makita nila nga nagatahod kamo sa Dios kag ang inyo pamatasan indi salawayon.
Kon gusto ninyo nga mangin matahom, indi ninyo pagpasulabihon ang pagpatahom sang inyo buhok nga nagasulubra na, ukon sa paggamit sang mga alahas nga bulawan, ukon pagsuksok sang malahalon nga mga bayo,
kundi patahumon ninyo ang sa sulod sang inyo kaugalingon, ang maayo nga pamatasan nga wala gid nagaliwat. Magmalulo kamo kag magmabuot. Amo ini ang malahalon sa panulok sang Dios.
Kag amo ini ang ginhimo sang una sang tumuluo nga mga babayi nga nagsalig sa Dios. Nagpatahom sila paagi sa ila pagpasakop sa ila mga bana.
Pareho bala kay Sara, gintuman niya si Abraham kag ginkabig niya siya nga iya amo. Kamo mga anak na ni Sara, gani dapat maayo ang inyo ginahimo kag indi kamo magkahadlok sa bisan ano.
Kamo man nga mga bana, dapat trataron ninyo ang inyo mga asawa suno sa inyo nahibaluan nga nagakabagay bilang Kristohanon. Tahura ninyo sila bilang mga babayi nga mas maluya sang sa aton. Kay ginhatagan man sila sang Dios sing kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan pareho sa aton. Himua ninyo ini Himua ninyo ini para wala sing sablag ang inyo pangamuyo.
Karon, ari pa ang akon bilin sa inyo nga tanan: dapat mag-isa kamo sa inyo hunahuna kag mabinatyagon sa isa kag isa. Maghigugmaanay kamo bilang mga mag-ulutod. Magmalulo kamo kag magmapainubuson sa isa kag isa.
Indi ninyo pagbalusan sang malain ang nagahimo sang malain sa inyo, kag indi man ninyo pagbalusan sang insulto ang nagainsulto sa inyo. Ang dapat ninyo nga himuon, pakamaayuhon ninyo sila, tungod nga ginpili kamo sang Dios sa paghimo sini, kag para pakamaayuhon man kamo.
Pero ginakontra niya ang mga nagahimo sang malain.”
Sin-o bala ang magahalit sa inyo kon luyag gid ninyo ang paghimo permi sing maayo?
Pero kon hingabuton kamo tungod sang inyo ginahimo nga maayo, bulahan kamo. Indi kamo magkahadlok ukon magkatublag kon ano ang ila himuon sa inyo.
Dumdumon ninyo nga si Cristo amo ang dapat ninyo tahuron kag sundon. Kag maghanda kamo permi sa pagpaathag sa kay bisan sin-o nga magpamangkot sa inyo parte sa inyo paglaom.
Sabta ninyo sila sa malulo nga paagi kag may pagtahod. Siguruhon ninyo nga permi matinlo ang inyo konsensya, para mahuy-an ang mga tawo nga nagapakalain sang inyo maayo nga mga binuhatan bilang mga sumulunod ni Cristo.
Mas maayo pa nga mag-antos kamo tungod sa inyo ginahimo nga maayo, kon amo gid man ina ang kabubut-on sang Dios, kaysa mag-antos kamo tungod nga nakahimo kamo sing malain.
Kay si Cristo gani ginpatay bisan wala siya nakahimo sing malain bisan wala siya nakahimo sing malain . Kag kaisa gid lang siya napatay para mapatawad ang aton mga sala. Siya nga wala sing sala ginpatay para sa aton nga mga makasasala para madala niya kita sa Dios. Ginpatay siya matuod sa iya lawasnon nga kahimtangan, pero ginbuhi siya sa espiritual nga kahimtangan.
Ang ini nga tubig amo ang halimbawa sang pagbautiso sa aton. Kag ini nga bautiso amo ang nagaluwas sa aton paagi sa pagkabanhaw ni Jesu-Cristo. Indi ini paghugas sang mga higko sa aton lawas, kundi nagapromisa kita sa Dios nga magkabuhi nga may matinlo nga konsensya.
Si Jesu-Cristo didto na subong sa langit, sa tuo sang Dios,
Tungod si Cristo nag-antos sa iya lawasnon nga kahimtangan, dapat preparado man kamo nga mag-antos. Kay ang tawo nga nag-antos wala na nagapakasala.
Ginagamit niya na lang ang nabilin niya nga panahon sa kalibutan sa pagsunod sa kabubut-on sang Dios kag indi sa mga tawhanon nga handom.
Kay tuman na ang panahon nga gin-usik ninyo sadto anay sa paghimo sang mga butang nga gusto himuon sang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios. Nagpagusto kamo sa paghimo sang kalautan kag ginsunod ninyo ang inyo malain nga mga handom. Nagpahubog kamo. Nagtilipon kamo permi para mag-inom kag maghimo sang makahuluya nga mga butang. Kag sa inyo pagsimba sa inyo mga dios-dios kon ano pa ang inyo ginhimo nga malain.
Pero subong ang mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios natingala sa inyo kon ngaa wala na kamo nagaupod sa ila pagusto nga pagkabuhi. Amo ina nga ginapakalain nila kamo.
Pero magapanabat sila sa Dios sa mga butang nga ila ginahimo, kay ang Dios magahukom sa tanan nga tawo, buhi ukon patay na.
Amo ini ang kabangdanan kon ngaa ginwali ang Maayong Balita sa mga tawo nga patay na, agod bisan patay na sila subong sa ila lawasnon nga kahimtangan, kay amo ini ang sentensya sang Dios sa tanan nga tawo, mabuhi sila sa ila espiritual nga kahimtangan subong nga ang Dios espiritu.
Madali na lang ang katapusan sang kalibutan. Gani maghunahuna kamo sing nagakadapat kag magpugong sang inyo kaugalingon, para wala sing sablag ang inyo pagpangamuyo.
Kag labaw sa tanan, maghigugmaanay kamo sing hugot sa inyo tagipusuon. Kay kon may paghigugma ka sa imo isigkatawo, makapatawad ka gid sa iya bisan madamo ang iya nahimo nga sala.
Magmaabiabihon kamo sa isa kag isa nga wala sing pagkumod.
Kada isa sa aton ginhatagan sang Dios sing abilidad. Gamiton ta ini sa pag-alagad sa iban bilang maayo nga mga tinugyanan sining nagkalain-lain nga abilidad nga halin sa Dios.
Ang ginhatagan sang abilidad sa pagwali dapat magwali sang pulong sang Dios. Kag ang ginhatagan sang abilidad sa pagbulig sa iban, dapat magbulig suno sa iya masarangan nga ginhatag sang Dios, para madayaw ang Dios sa tanan ninyo nga ginahimo paagi kay Jesu-Cristo. Gamhanan siya kag dalayawon hasta san-o. Amen.
Mga hinigugma, indi kamo magkatingala sa masakit nga mga pagtilaw nga inyo ginaagyan. Kon ginatilawan ang inyo pagtuo indi kamo maghunahuna nga kon daw ano na gid ang matabo sa inyo.
Sa baylo, magkalipay kamo, kay nagaambit kamo sa mga pag-antos ni Cristo. Kag mabug-os na gid ang inyo kalipay kon mapakita na niya ang iya gahom sa tanan.
Gani kon ginainsulto kamo tungod nga kamo mga sumulunod ni Cristo, bulahan kamo kay ara sa inyo ang makagagahom nga Espiritu, nga amo ang Espiritu sang Dios.
Kon ginasilutan kamo, kabay pa nga indi tungod nakapatay kamo sing tawo, ukon nagpangawat, ukon naghimo sang malain, ukon nagpasilabot sa ginahimo sang iban.
Pero kon silutan kamo tungod kay kamo Kristohanon indi kamo dapat magkahuya, kundi magpasalamat pa gani kamo sa Dios tungod nga ginatawag kamo sa sina nga ngalan.
Kay nag-abot na ang tion nga magaumpisa na ang paghukom sa panimalay sang Dios. Kag kon ini magaumpisa sa aton, ano pa gid ayhan ang maabtan sang mga wala nagasunod sa Maayong Balita sang Dios?
kag wala nagakilala sa Dios?”
Gani kamo nga nagaantos subong tungod kay amo ini ang kabubut-on sang Dios para sa inyo, itugyan ninyo ang inyo kaugalingon sa masaligan nga Dios nga nagtuga sa inyo, kag magpadayon kamo sa paghimo sang maayo.
Kamo nga mga manugdumala sang mga tumuluo, may ihambal ako sa inyo. Bilang isa man ka manugdumala sang mga tumuluo, nga nakakita mismo sang mga pag-antos ni Cristo kag manug-ambit man sang iya gahom kag dungog kon mag-abot siya, nagapakitluoy ako sa inyo nga
tatapon ninyo sing maayo ang mga katawhan sang Dios nga ara sa inyo. Pareho sila sa mga karnero kag kamo amo ang mga manugbantay sa ila. Dapat kinabubut-on gid ang inyo pagtatap sa ila kay amo ini ang kabubut-on sang Dios, indi nga napilitan lang kamo ukon may ginapaabot kamo nga suhol, kundi tungod kay gusto gid ninyo nga makabulig sa ila.
Indi kamo magpakahari-hari sa mga tumuluo nga gintugyan sa inyo nga tatapon, kundi mangin sulundan kamo nila.
Kag sa pag-abot ni Cristo nga amo ang Cristo nga amo ang Pangulo nga Manugbantay, mabaton ninyo ang balos nga matahom gid kag indi madula hasta san-o.
Kag kamo nga mga bataon pa, magpasakop kamo sa mga tigulang. Kag kamo tanan nga tumuluo nga tumuluo , magpaubos kamo kag mag-alagad sa isa kag isa, kay nagasiling ang Kasulatan, “Ginakontra sang Dios ang bugalon, pero ginakaluoyan niya ang mapainubuson.”
Gani magpaubos kamo sa gahom sang Dios, kay magaabot ang adlaw nga pataason niya kamo.
Itugyan ninyo sa iya ang tanan ninyo nga palaligban kay nagakabalaka siya sa inyo.
Magpugong kamo sang inyo kaugalingon kag magbantay! Kay ang inyo kaaway nga amo ang yawa nagalibot-libot pareho sang leon nga nagangurob kag nagapangita sang tulukbon.
Palig-una ninyo ang inyo pagtuo sa Dios kag pamatuki ninyo si Satanas. Dumduma ninyo nga indi lang kamo ang nagaantos kundi pati man ang tanan nga kauturan ninyo kay Cristo kay Cristo sa kalibutan. Ini nga mga pag-antos, nga ang katuyuan sini dapat matuman,
Malip-ot lang nga tion ang inyo pag-antos. Pagkatapos sina ang Dios amo ang magabulig sa inyo para wala na sing kulang sa inyo kabuhi, kag siya ang magapabakod, magapabaskog, kag magapundar sang inyo kabuhi. sang inyo kabuhi. Kay siya ang ginahalinan sang tanan nga pagpakamaayo, kag ginpili niya kamo para makaambit man kamo sang iya wala sing katapusan nga gahom kag dungog paagi sa inyo pagpakig-isa kay Cristo.
Dayawon siya sa iya gahom nga wala sing katapusan. Amen.
Ginsulat ko sa inyo ini nga malip-ot nga sulat sa bulig ni Silvanus. Utod ta siya kay Cristo kag masaligan gid. Kabay pa nga paagi sa sulat nga ini napabaskog ko kamo kag napamatud-an ko ang kaayo sang Dios sa aton. Magpabilin kamo sa iya kaayo.
Ang mga tumuluo sa Babilonia
Kabay pa nga ang kalinong
Ako Ako si Simon Pedro nga ulipon kag apostol ni Jesu-Cristo. Nagapangamusta ako Nagapangamusta ako sa inyo nga nagatuo kay Jesu-Cristo nga aton Dios kag Manluluwas. Kag tungod nga siya matarong, ang iya ginhatag sa inyo nga pribilehiyo tungod sa inyo pagtuo pareho man sa ginhatag sa amon.
Ang gahom sang Dios ang naghatag sa aton sang tanan ta nga kinahanglanon sa pagkabuhi nga diosnon paagi sa aton pagkilala sa iya nga nagtawag sa aton. Gintawag niya kita paagi sa iya makatilingala nga gahom.
Kag paagi man sini, ginhatagan niya kita sang bilidhon
Gani, tinguhai gid ninyo nga idugang sa inyo pagtuo ang maayo nga pamatasan; sa maayo nga pamatasan, ang kaalam;
sa kaalam, ang pagpugong sa kaugalingon; sa pagpugong sa kaugalingon, ang pagkamainantuson; sa pagkamainantuson, ang pagkadiosnon;
sa pagkadiosnon, ang paghigugma sa aton mga kauturan; kag sa paghigugma sa aton mga kauturan, ang paghigugma sa tanan.
Kon ini tanan ara sa inyo kag nagabugana, mangin mapuslanon kag mabinungahon kamo sa inyo pagkilala sa aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Pero ang bisan sin-o nga wala sa iya ini nga mga kinaugali bulag sa kamatuoran sa kamatuoran ; nalimtan na niya nga gintinluan na siya sang Dios sa iya nagligad nga mga sala.
Gani mga kauturan, tinguhai gid nga masiguro ninyo nga kamo matuod nga mga tinawag kag mga pinili sang Dios. Kay kon himuon ninyo ini nga mga butang indi gid kamo malaglag,
kundi mangin bukas ang pagbaton sa inyo sa wala sing katapusan nga paghari sang aton Ginoo kag Manluluwas nga si Jesu-Cristo.
Amo ina nga permi ko kamo padumdumon parte sa sini nga mga butang, bisan nahibaluan na ninyo ini kag mabakod na kamo sa kamatuoran nga inyo nabaton.
Kon sa akon lang, dapat ko kamo nga padumdumon samtang buhi pa ako.
Kay nahibaluan ko nga indi na gid ako magdugay sa sini nga kalibutan, tungod nga ginpahibalo ini mismo sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo sa akon.
Gani tinguhaan ko nga bisan wala na ako, madumduman pa gihapon ninyo ining akon mga ginatudlo.
Ang amon ginsugid sa inyo parte sa gahom sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo sang diri pa siya sa kalibutan indi himo-himo lang nga mga estorya, kundi nakita gid namon ang iya gahom nga halin sa Dios.
Kay sang gindayaw kag ginpadunggan si Jesu-Cristo sang Dios nga Amay, nabatian namon ang tingog sang Dios nga makagagahom sa tanan nga nagsiling, “Amo ini ang akon hinigugma nga Anak. Nalipay gid ako sa iya.”
Ini nga tingog nga halin sa langit nabatian namon sang kami kaupod ni Jesus didto sa balaan nga bukid.
Amo ina nga nagdugang pa gid ang amon pagpati sa mga pagpanudlo sang mga propeta. Gani dapat pamatian ninyo ang ila mga ginhambal, tungod nga pareho ina sang isa ka suga nga nagasiga sa madulom nga lugar
Labaw sa tanan, tandai gid ninyo ini: ang tanan nga nasulat sa Kasulatan wala naghalin sa kaugalingon nga pag-intiendi sang mga propeta.
Tungod nga wala sila naghambal halin sa ila kaugalingon nga hunahuna, kundi ang Espiritu Santo amo ang nagtuytoy sa ila sa paghambal sang pulong sang Dios.
Pero may ara man sadto nga indi matuod nga mga propeta sa katawhan sang Israel. Amo man ina ang magakalatabo: may magaguwa dira sa inyo nga indi matuod nga mga manunudlo sang Dios sang Dios nga magadala sang pagpanudlo nga makaguba sang inyo pagtuo. Indi gani sila magkilala sa Ginoo nga nagtubos sa ila. Gani sa labing madali silutan sila sang Dios.
Madamo ang magasunod sang ila pagusto nga paghimo sang kalautan. Kag tungod sa ila, pakalainon sang mga tawo ang kamatuoran nga aton ginasunod.
Ining indi matuod nga mga manunudlo sang Dios sang Dios magahimo-himo sang mga estorya para mapanguwartahan nila kamo. Wala sila kahibalo nga madugay na sila nga ginsentensyahan sang Dios, kag madali na lang sila mawala.
Wala gani maluoy ang Dios sa mga anghel nga nagpakasala sadto anay, kundi ginpriso sila sa madalom gid kag madulom nga buho, kag didto sila hasta sa adlaw sang paghukom.
Wala gani niya pagkaluoyi ang mga tawo sang una nga indi diosnon, kundi ginpabaha niya ang kalibutan kag nagkalamatay sila tanan. Pero ginluwas niya si Noe nga manugwali sang pagkamatarong kag ang pito niya ka kaupod.
Ginsunog niya ang mga banwa sang Sodom kag Gomora bilang silot sa makasasala nga mga tawo didto para ipakita kon ano ang matabo sa mga tawo nga indi diosnon.
Pero ginluwas niya si Lot tungod kay matarong siya nga tawo kag nasubuan gid sa mga ginahimo sang iya mga kasimanwa, nga nagapagusto sa paghimo sang kalautan kag wala sing prinsipyo nga ginasunod.
Adlaw-adlaw nakita kag nabatian ni Lot ang ila malain nga mga ginahimo sang nagaestar siya kaupod nila, kag ini nagapasakit gid permi sang iya matarong nga balatyagon.
Diri makita ta nga kahibalo ang Ginoo magluwas sa mga diosnon kon mag-abot sa ila ang mga pagtilaw, kag kahibalo man siya magsilot sa mga malain hasta mag-abot ang adlaw sang paghukom,
Ining indi matuod nga mga manunudlo sang Dios sang Dios nga akon ginatumod mga maisog kag bugalon, kag wala sila nahadlok mag-insulto sa gamhanan nga mga tinuga.
Bisan gani ang mga anghel nga mas makusog kag mas gamhanan pa sang sa sini nga mga manunudlo wala nagainsulto sa gamhanan nga mga tinuga sa ila pagsugid sa sini nga mga tinuga sang mga akusasyon nga halin sa Ginoo.
Pero ini nga mga tawo nagapakalain sa mga butang nga wala gani nila naintiendihan. Pareho sila sa mga sapat nga wala nagahunahuna kon ano ang ila ginahimo, kag wala sing iban nga palaabuton kundi dakpon kag patyon. Pagalaglagon gid ina nga mga tawo.
Amo ina ang balos sang ila ginahimo nga malain sa iban. Ang ila ginakabig nga kalipay amo ang paghimo sang bisan ano nga ila naluyagan bisan adlaw. Amo ini ang mga tawo nga nagamansa kag nagahatag sang kahuy-anan sa inyo kon makita sila sa inyo pagtilipon, kay nagaupod sila sa inyo sa pagkaon pero ang matuod luyag lang nila nga dayaan kamo.
Kon magtulok sila sa mga babayi nagahunahuna sila dayon sang pagpanginbabayi. Wala sila natak-i sa pagpakasala kag ginatentar pa nila ang mga maluya sa pagtuo para magpakasala. Batasan na nila ang pagkadalok. Ginpakamalaot na sila sang Dios!
Ginbayaan nila ang matarong nga mga pagpanudlo; amo ina nga nagtalang sila. Ginsunod nila ang ginhimo ni Balaam nga anak ni Beor nga nagpasulabi sang kuwarta. Amo ina nga nagsugot si Balaam nga suhulan siya sa paghimo sang malain.
Kag tungod kay ginlapas niya ang sugo sang Dios, ginsaway siya sang iya iya donkey nga naghambal sa tingog sang tawo, gani napunggan siya sa iya binuang kuntani nga pagahimuon.
Ining indi matuod nga mga manunudlo sang Dios sang Dios pareho sa mga tuburan nga namalhan kag sa mga panganod nga ginapalid sang mabaskog nga hangin.
Ginagamit nila ang mabinulakbulakon nga mga pulong, pero wala sing pulos ang ila ginahambal. Paagi sa ila pagpanudlo, nga wala kuno sing kaso kon magpagusto kita sa pagsunod sa aton lawasnon nga kailigbon, ginatentar nila ang mga tawo nga bag-o pa lang nakalikaw sa mga tawo nga nagakabuhi sa sala.
Ginapromisa nila ang kahilwayan sa mga nagasunod sa ila, pero sila mismo mga ulipon sang sala nga amo ang magalaglag sa ila. Kay kon may butang nga nagakontrolar sa imo, ulipon ka sang sina nga butang.
Ang mga tawo nga nakakilala na kay Ginoong Jesu-Cristo nga aton Manluluwas nahilway na sa malain nga mga kinaugali nga nagakontrolar sa mga tawo diri sa kalibutan. Pero kon sa ulihi magbalik naman sila sa ila malain nga kinaugali kag mangin ulipon naman sila sang ila mga sala, mas mangin malain pa gid ang ila kahimtangan sang sa wala pa sila nagtuo kay Cristo.
Maayo pa nga wala na lang sila nakahibalo sang pagpakamatarong sang Dios, sang sa pagkatapos nga nakahibalo sila nagtalikod sila sa mga sugo sang Dios sa ila.
kag “Ang baboy nga bag-o lang ginpaliguan nagaligid liwat sa lunang.”
Mga hinigugma, ikaduha ko na ini nga sulat sa inyo. Sa sining duha ka sulat gintinguhaan ko nga pukawon ang inyo matinlo nga panghunahuna paagi sa pagpadumdom sa inyo sa pila ka butang.
Luyag ko nga dumdumon ninyo permi ang ginsiling sang pinili nga mga propeta sang una kag ang sugo sang aton Ginoo kag Manluluwas nga iya ginhatag sa inyo paagi sa mga apostoles nga ginpadala sa inyo.
Una sa tanan, dapat ninyo mahibaluan nga sa katapusan nga mga inadlaw magaguwa ang mga manugyaguta nga magahimo sang bisan ano nga luyag nila.
Magasiling sila, “Indi bala nagpromisa si Cristo nga magabalik siya? Karon, diin na bala siya? Ang amon mga ginikanan nagkalamatay na, pero amo man gihapon ang kahimtangan sang tanan halin pa gid sang pagtuga sang kalibutan.”
Hungod nga ginakalimtan sini nga mga tawo nga paagi sa pulong sang Dios nahimo ang langit. Kag paagi man sa iya pulong nahimo ang duta halin sa tubig kag paagi sa tubig.
Kag paagi man sa tubig ginpabaha niya kag ginlaglag ang kalibutan sadto.
Paagi man sa pulong sang Dios, ang langit kag ang duta nga aton nakita subong ginatigana nga sunugon. Ginatigana niya ini sa adlaw nga ang malain nga mga tawo pagahukman kag pagalaglagon.
Pero mga hinigugma, indi ninyo pagkalimti nga sa Ginoo wala sing kinalain ang isa ka adlaw kag ang isa ka libo ka tuig. Para sa iya ining duha pareho lang.
Suno sa ginahunahuna sang iban, nagapatumbaya ang Ginoo sa pagtuman sang iya promisa. Pero ang matuod, wala siya nagapatumbaya kundi nagahulat siya nga maghinulsol ang mga tawo sa ila mga sala, tungod kay indi niya luyag nga may mawala.
Mabalik gid ang Ginoo, kag ina nga adlaw magaabot pareho sang pag-abot sang makawat. Mabatian dayon nga may nagaragubrob, kag madula ang langit.
Tungod nga ang tanan madula sa sini nga paagi, dapat magkabuhi kita nga balaan kag diosnon
samtang nagapaabot kita sang adlaw nga magabalik ang Dios, kag samtang ginahimo ta ang aton masarangan para mapadali ta ang iya pagbalik. Sa sina nga adlaw, sunugon ang langit kag madula ini, kag magakalatunaw sa kainit ang tanan nga ara sa duta.
Pero nagahulat kita sa ginpromisa sang Dios sa aton nga bag-o nga langit kag bag-o nga duta, nga sa diin magatiner ang pagkamatarong.
Gani mga hinigugma, samtang nagahulat kamo sa sina nga mga butang, tinguhai ninyo nga magkabuhi sing matinlo sa atubangan sang Dios nga wala sing kasawayan, kag dapat maayo ang inyo relasyon sa iya.
Dumdumon ninyo nga ang aton Ginoo nagahatag pa gid sing kahigayunan sa mga tawo para maluwas sila. Amo ina nga wala pa siya magbalik. Indi bala nga amo man ini nga mga butang ang ginsiling sang aton pinalangga nga utod nga si Pablo sa iya sulat sa inyo, suno sa kaalam nga ginhatag sang Dios sa iya?
Kag amo man ini ang iya ginasambit sa tanan niya nga mga sulat. Kon sa bagay may mga ginsulat siya nga mabudlay intiendihon. Gani may mga tawo nga maluya ang ila pagtuo kag wala kahibalo sang kamatuoran, nga nagahatag sang sala nga kahulugan sa sini nga mga ginsulat ni Pablo. Kag amo man ini ang ila ginahimo sa iban nga parte sang Kasulatan. Gani sila mismo ang nagadala sang kalaglagan sa ila kaugalingon.
Pero mga hinigugma, madugay na ninyo ini nahibaluan. Gani mag-andam kamo para indi kamo pagpatalangon sang sala nga mga pagpanudlo sining mga tawo nga wala sing husto nga prinsipyo nga ginasunod. Kay kon magsunod kamo sa ila, madula ang inyo mabakod nga kahimtangan sa Dios.
Ang inyo himuon, magpadayon kamo sa pagtubo sa kaayo kag kaalam nga halin sa aton Ginoo
Ginapahayag namon sa inyo ang parte sa iya nga ara na nga daan halin pa sang ginsuguran. Nabatian namon siya kag nakita mismo sang amon mga mata, kag nakauyat pa gani kami sa iya. Siya amo ang Pulong sang Dios nga nagahatag sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Siya nga ginahalinan sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nagpakita, kag nakita namon siya. Ginapamatud-an kag ginasugid namon siya sa inyo. Kaupod siya sang Amay, pero subong nagpakita siya sa amon.
Ginasugid namon sa inyo ang amon nakita kag nabatian para may pag-isa kita kaupod sa Dios nga Dios nga Amay kag kay Jesu-Cristo nga iya Anak.
Gani ginasulat namon ini sa inyo para mangin malipayon gid kita.
Amo ini ang amon nabatian nga gintudlo ni Jesu-Cristo kag amo man ini ang amon ginasugid sa inyo, nga ang Dios kasanag kag wala gid sing kadudulman sa iya.
Gani kon magsiling kita nga nagapakig-isa kita sa Dios, pero nagakabuhi kita sa kadudulman, nagabutig kita, tungod kay wala kita nagakabuhi suno sa kamatuoran.
Pero kon nagakabuhi kita sa kasanag, subong nga ang Dios kasanag, may pag-isa kita, kag ang dugo ni Jesus nga Anak sang Dios nagatinlo sa aton sa tanan ta nga sala.
Kon magsiling kita nga wala kita sing sala, ginadayaan ta lang ang aton kaugalingon, kag wala kita kahibalo sang kamatuoran.
Pero kon ituad ta sa Dios ang aton mga sala, masaligan siya sa pagpatawad sang aton mga sala kag sa pagtinlo sa tanan ta nga kalainan. Himuon niya ini tungod nga matarong siya.
Kon magsiling kita nga wala kita nakasala, ginahimo ta ang Dios nga butigon, kag wala kita kahibalo sang iya pulong.
Ginasulatan ko kamo nga akon mga anak, para indi kamo magpakasala. Pero kon may ara nga makasala, may nagapakitluoy sa Amay para sa aton, kag siya amo si Jesu-Cristo nga amo ang matarong.
Ang iya kaugalingon mismo ang iya ginhalad bilang bayad para sa aton mga sala, kag indi lang para sa aton kundi para man sa mga sala sang mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Nasiguro ta gid nga kilala ta ang Dios kon ginatuman ta ang iya mga sugo.
Ang nagasiling nga kilala niya ang Dios, pero wala siya nagatuman sang iya mga sugo butigon, kag ang kamatuoran wala sa iya.
Pero ang tawo nga nagatuman sang pulong sang Dios, matuod nga wala na sing kulang sa iya ang gugma sang Dios.
ang nagasiling nga siya ara sa Dios kinahanglan magkabuhi pareho kay Jesu-Cristo.
Mga hinigugma, indi bag-o nga sugo ining ginasulat ko sa inyo nga maghigugmaanay kamo nga maghigugmaanay kamo . Daan na ini nga sugo nga nabatian ninyo kag ginbaton sugod sang nagtuo kamo.
Pero makasiling man kita nga ini nga sugo bag-o, kay ang kadudulman nagataliwan kag ang matuod nga kasanag nagasilak na, kag ang kamatuoran sini nakita sa kabuhi ni Cristo kag sa inyo man.
Ang nagasiling nga siya ara sa kasanag, pero wala nagahigugma sa iya utod, ina nga tawo ara pa sa kadudulman.
Ang tawo nga nagahigugma sa iya utod nagapadayon sa pagkabuhi sa kasanag, kag wala sing bisan ano sa iya kabuhi nga mangin kabangdanan sang pagpakasala sang iban.
Pero ang tawo nga wala nagahigugma sa iya utod ara sa kadudulman. Nagalakat siya sa kadudulman kag wala kahibalo kon diin siya nagapakadto, tungod kay ginabulag siya sang kadudulman.
sa inyo mga sala tungod kay Cristo.
kay nadaog na ninyo si Satanas.
Ginatuman ninyo ang pulong sang Dios kag nadaog na ninyo si Satanas.
Indi ninyo paghigugmaa ang kalibutan ukon ang kalibutanon nga mga butang. Kon ginahigugma ninyo ang kalibutan, wala kamo nagahigugma sa Amay.
Kay ang tanan nga kalibutanon nga ginahandom sang tawhanon nga balatyagon, nga ginakawilihan sang mga mata, kag ginapabugal sang kabuhi, wala nagahalin sa Amay kundi sa kalibutan.
Ining kalibutan kag ang tanan nga butang diri nga ginahandom sang mga tawo magataliwan, pero ang nagatuman sang kabubut-on sang Dios nagakabuhi hasta san-o.
Mga anak, nakabati na kamo nga magaabot ang anti-Cristo. Kag kon mag-abot na siya, malapit na kita sa katapusan nga mga inadlaw. Bisan gani subong madamo na ang mga anti-Cristo, gani nahibaluan ta nga malapit na kita sa katapusan nga mga inadlaw.
Ini sila naghalin sa aton, pero indi ta sila matuod nga kaupod. Kay kon sila aton gid man kaupod, nagpabilin kuntani sila sa aton. Pero naghalin sila, kag ini nagapakilala nga indi ta sila matuod nga kaupod.
Pero kamo ginhatagan ni Cristo sang Espiritu Santo.
Gani nagasulat ako sa inyo, indi tungod kay wala kamo kahibalo sang kamatuoran, kundi tungod kay kamo nakahibalo na, kag nahibaluan man ninyo nga wala sing kabutigan nga nagahalin sa kamatuoran.
Sin-o ang butigon? Siya nga nagasiling nga si Jesus indi amo ang Cristo. Amo ini ang anti-Cristo, ang nagapanginwala sang Amay kag sang Anak.
Ang nagapanginwala sang Anak wala sa iya ang Amay, pero ang nagakilala sang Anak ara sa iya ang Amay.
Gani indi gid ninyo pagkalimtan ang mga gintudlo sa inyo sugod sang nagtuo kamo. Kon ginatuman ninyo ini, magapabilin kamo sa pagpakig-isa sa Anak kag sa Amay.
Kag ang ginapromisa ni Cristo sa aton amo ang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Nagasulat ako sini sa inyo para paandaman kamo para paandaman kamo parte sa mga tawo nga gusto magpatalang sa inyo.
Kon parte sa inyo, ang Espiritu Santo
Mga anak, magpabilin kamo sa iya, para indi kita magkahadlok ukon magpanago sa kahuya kon mag-abot na siya.
Nahibaluan ninyo nga si Cristo matarong, gani makasiguro gid kamo nga ang tanan nga tawo nga nagahimo sang matarong mga anak sang Dios.
Hunahunaa ninyo kon daw ano ka dako ang paghigugma sang Amay sa aton! Ginatawag niya kita nga iya mga anak. Matuod gid nga kita iya mga anak. Gani wala nakakilala sa aton ang mga tawo diri sa kalibutan tungod kay wala man sila nakakilala sa Dios.
Mga hinigugma, karon mga anak na kita sang Dios. Pero wala pa mapahayag kon mangin ano gid kita sa ulihi. Nahibaluan ta nga kon mag-abot na si Cristo mangin kaangay kita sa iya, kay makita ta gid kon sin-o gid siya.
Gani ang tagsa-tagsa nga may ara sini nga paglaom kay Cristo dapat magkabuhi sing matinlo subong nga ang kabuhi ni Cristo matinlo.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagapakasala nagalapas sang mga sugo sang Dios, kay ang sala amo ang paglapas sang mga sugo sang Dios.
Nahibaluan ninyo nga si Cristo nga wala gid sing sala nagkadto diri sa kalibutan sa pagkuha sang aton mga sala.
Gani ang mga tawo nga nagakabuhi kay Cristo wala nagapadayon sa pagpakasala. Pero ang bisan sin-o nga nagapadayon sa pagpakasala wala gid makakita ukon makakilala sa iya.
Mga anak, indi kamo magtugot nga patalangon ni bisan sin-o! Ang tawo nga nagahimo sing matarong nagapakilala nga siya matarong, subong nga si Cristo matarong.
Pero ang tawo nga nagapadayon sa pagpakasala, iya sang yawa, kay ang yawa nagapakasala halin pa sang ginsuguran. Tungod sina, ang Anak sang Dios nagkadto diri sa pagguba sang ginahimo sang yawa.
Ang tawo nga nangin anak sang Dios wala nagapadayon sa pagpakasala, kay ang kinaugali sang Dios ara na sa iya. Kag tungod nga ang Dios amo ang iya Amay, indi na siya makapadayon sa pagpakasala.
Sa sini makilala kon sin-o gid ang mga anak sang Dios kag kon sin-o ang mga anak sang yawa: Ang tawo nga wala nagahimo sang matarong ukon wala nagahigugma sa iya utod indi anak sang Dios.
Amo ini ang pagpanudlo nga inyo nabatian sugod sang nagtuo kamo: dapat gid kita maghigugmaanay.
Indi kita dapat magsunod kay Cain. Sakop siya ni Satanas, gani ginpatay niya ang iya utod. Pero ngaa ginpatay gid niya ang iya utod? Kay ang mga binuhatan sang iya utod matarong kag ang iya malain.
Gani mga kauturan, indi kamo magkatingala kon ginadumtan kamo sang mga tawo diri sa kalibutan.
Nahibaluan ta nga ginsaylo kita halin sa kamatayon pakadto sa kabuhi tungod nga ginahigugma ta ang aton aton mga kauturan. Ang wala nagahigugma ara pa sa kamatayon.
Ang tawo nga wala nagahigugma sa iya utod manugpatay. Kag nahibaluan ninyo nga wala sing manugpatay nga may kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Sa sini nahibaluan ta ang matuod nga paghigugma: ginhatag ni Jesus ang iya kabuhi para sa aton. Gani kita dapat man maghatag sang aton kabuhi para sa aton mga kauturan.
Kon maayo ang aton pangabuhi pero wala kita nagabulig bisan nakita ta nga ginapigaduhan ang aton utod, makasiling bala kita nga ang gugma sang Dios ari sa aton?
Mga anak, indi lang kita maghambal nga nagahigugma kita, kundi ipakita ta sa aton mga ginahimo nga matuod nga nagahigugma kita.
Sa sini nga paagi, nahibaluan ta nga ara kita sa kamatuoran, kag sarang na kita makaatubang sa Dios nga wala sing kahadlok
bisan kon ginasuknaan
Mga hinigugma, kon wala na kita ginasuknaan sang aton konsensya, mas may kaisog kita sa pagpalapit sa Dios.
Kag bisan ano ang aton pangayuon sa iya mabaton ta, kay ginatuman ta ang iya mga sugo kag ginahimo ang iya luyag.
Amo ini ang iya sugo: magtuo kita sa iya Anak
Ang tawo nga nagatuman sang mga sugo sang Dios nagakabuhi sa Dios, kag ang Dios nagakabuhi sa iya. Nahibaluan ta nga ang Dios nagakabuhi sa aton paagi sa iya iya Espiritu nga iya ginhatag sa aton.
Mga hinigugma, indi kamo magdali-dali pati sa mga tawo nga nagasiling nga ang ila ginatudlo halin sa Espiritu Santo, kundi usisaon ninyo anay kon bala ang ila ginatudlo halin sa Dios ukon indi. Kay madamo na nga indi matuod nga mga propeta ang naglalapta sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan ninyo nga ang espiritu nga ara sa ila iya gid sang Dios: kon nagakilala sila nga si Jesu-Cristo nagpakatawo, ang Dios ang nagsugo sa ila.
Pero ang wala nagakilala nga si Jesus nagpakatawo, ang nagsugo sa iya indi ang Dios kundi ang espiritu sang espiritu sang anti-Cristo. (Nabatian na ninyo nga magaabot ini kag ari na ini sa kalibutan.)
Pero mga anak ko ko , kamo iya sang Dios, kag gindaog na ninyo ang indi matuod nga mga propeta; kay ang Espiritu Santo nga ara sa inyo mas gamhanan pa sang sa kay Satanas nga nagagahom sa mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan.
Ining indi matuod nga mga propeta iya sang kalibutan, gani ang mga butang nga iya sang kalibutan amo ang ila ginasugid, kag ang mga tawo sang mga tawo sang kalibutan nagapamati sa ila.
Pero kita mga anak sang Dios. Ang mga nagakilala sa Dios nagapamati sang aton ginatudlo, pero ang wala nagakilala sa Dios wala nagapamati sa aton. Gani sa sini nga paagi mahibaluan ta kon sin-o ang nagatudlo sang kamatuoran nga halin sa Espiritu sang Dios kag kon sin-o ang nagatudlo sang kabutigan nga halin sa iban nga espiritu.
Mga hinigugma, maghigugmaanay kita kay ang gugma halin sa Dios. Ang nagahigugma anak sang Dios, kag nakakilala sa Dios.
Ang wala nagahigugma wala nakakilala sa Dios, kay ang Dios gugma.
Ginpakita sang Dios ang iya gugma sa aton paagi sa iya pagpadala sang iya bugtong nga Anak diri sa kalibutan, agod paagi sa iya makabaton kita sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan.
Amo ini ang matuod nga matuod nga paghigugma: indi nga kita ang naghigugma sa Dios, kundi ang Dios amo ang naghigugma sa aton, gani ginpadala niya ang iya Anak bilang halad para mabayaran ang aton mga sala.
Mga hinigugma, kon amo ini ang paghigugma sang Dios sa aton, dapat man kita maghigugmaanay.
Wala pa gid sing tawo nga nakakita sa Dios. Pero kon nagahigugmaanay kita, ang Dios nagakabuhi sa aton kag ang iya gugma wala na sing kulang sa aton.
Nasiguro ta nga kita ara sa Dios kag ang Dios ari sa aton, kay ginhatag niya sa aton ang iya Espiritu.
Nakita namon kag nagasugid kami nga ginpadala sang Amay ang iya Anak bilang Manluluwas sang kalibutan.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagasiling nga si Jesus Anak sang Dios, ang Dios ara sa iya, kag siya ara sa Dios.
Ang Dios gugma. Kag ang nagakabuhi nga may paghigugma, ara sa Dios, kag ang Dios ara sa iya.
Ini nga gugma ginakompleto sa aton hasta nga wala na sing kulang, para indi na kita magkahadlok sa adlaw sang paghukom, kay ang aton kabuhi diri sa kalibutan pareho sang pagkabuhi ni Cristo.
Kon nagahigugma kita wala kita nahadlok sa sina nga paghukom sa sina nga paghukom . Ang gugma nga wala sing kulang nagakuha sang sina nga kahadlok. Ang tawo nagakahadlok tungod nga nagahulat siya nga silutan, kay kulang pa ang iya nga gugma.
Nagahigugma kita sa Dios sa Dios
Ang nagasiling nga siya nagahigugma sa Dios, pero wala nagahigugma sa iya utod, ina nga tawo butigon. Kay kon ang iya utod mismo nga iya makita indi niya mahigugma, paano siya makahigugma sa Dios nga indi niya makita?
Gani amo ini ang sugo nga ginhatag sa aton ni Cristo: ang tawo nga nagahigugma sa Dios dapat man nga maghigugma sa iya utod.
Ang bisan sin-o nga nagatuo nga si Jesus amo ang Cristo, anak sang Dios. Kag ang bisan sin-o nga nagahigugma sa ginikanan nagahigugma man sa iya anak.
Kag nahibaluan ta nga ginahigugma ta ang mga anak sang Dios kon nagahigugma kita sa Dios kag nagatuman sang iya mga sugo.
Kay nagahigugma kita sa Dios kon nagatuman kita sang iya mga sugo. Kag ang iya mga sugo indi gid man mabudlay tumanon.
Kay ginadaog sang tagsa ka anak sang Dios ang kalibutan.
Gani sin-o bala ang makadaog sa kalibutan? Ang tawo nga nagatuo nga si Jesus amo ang Anak sang Dios.
Ang nag-abot nga si Jesu-Cristo ginpamatud-an nga siya ginpamatud-an nga siya amo gid ang Anak sang Dios paagi sa tubig sang iya pagpabautiso sang iya pagpabautiso kag paagi man sa dugo sang iya kamatayon sang iya kamatayon . Indi lang sa tubig kundi paagi sa tubig kag dugo. Kag ini nga butang ginapamatud-an man sang Espiritu Santo sa aton Santo sa aton , kag nahibaluan ta nga matuod ang iya ginasiling kay siya kamatuoran.
Gani may tatlo nga nagapamatuod
ang Espiritu Santo Santo , ang tubig sang iya pagpabautiso sang iya pagpabautiso , kag ang dugo sang iya kamatayon sang iya kamatayon . Kag ining tatlo nagaugyon.
Nagapati kita sa pagpamatuod sang mga tawo. Pero mas masaligan pa gid ang pagpamatuod sang Dios, kag siya mismo ang nagpamatuod nga si Jesus iya Anak.
Ang nagatuo sa Anak sang Dios nagapati sa pagpamatuod sang Dios. Pero ang wala nagapati sa pagpamatuod sang Dios nagahimo sa Dios nga butigon, kay wala siya nagapati sa pagpamatuod sang Dios parte sa iya Anak.
Kag amo ini ang ginapamatuod sang Dios: nga kita ginhatagan niya sing kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan, kag ining kabuhi ara sa iya Anak.
Ang bisan sin-o nga ara sa iya ang Anak may kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan . Pero kon wala sa iya ang Anak sang Dios wala siya sing kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan .
Ginasulat ko ini sa inyo, kamo nga nagatuo sa Anak sang Dios,
Kag may pagsalig kita sa pagpalapit sa Dios kay nagatuo kita nga pamatian niya ang bisan ano nga aton pangayuon suno sa iya kabubut-on.
Kag kon nahibaluan ta nga nagapamati ang Dios sa aton kon magpangayo kita sa iya, nahibaluan ta man nga nabaton na naton ang bisan ano nga aton ginapangayo sa iya.
Kon makita ninyo ang inyo utod nga nagahimo sang sala nga indi ikamatay, pangamuyui ninyo siya kag ang Dios magahatag sa iya sang kabuhi. Ini para lang sa mga nakahimo sang sala nga indi ikamatay. May sala nga ikamatay. Wala ako nagasiling nga pangamuyuan ninyo ang tawo nga nakahimo sini nga sala.
Ang tanan nga buhat nga indi matarong sala. Pero may ara nga sala nga indi magaresulta sang espiritual nga espiritual nga kamatayon.
Nahibaluan ta nga wala sing tawo nga nangin anak sang Dios nga nagapadayon sa pagpakasala, kundi ginatipigan siya sang Anak sang Dios, gani indi siya matandog ni Satanas.
Ining bilog nga kalibutan ara sa idalom sang gahom ni Satanas, pero nahibaluan ta nga kita iya na sang Dios.
Kag nahibaluan ta nga nagkadto diri sa kalibutan ang Anak sang Dios, kag ginhatagan niya kita sing pag-intiendi para makilala ta ang matuod nga Dios nga Dios . Kag ara kita sa matuod nga Dios nga Dios , sa iya Anak nga si Jesu-Cristo.
Gani mga anak, maglikaw kamo sa mga dios-dios.
Ako nga manugdumala sang mga tumuluo nagapangamusta nagapangamusta sa imo bilang imo bilang babayi nga pinili sang Dios sang Dios kag sa imo mga anak. Ginahigugma ko kamo sa kamatuoran, kag indi lang ako kundi ang tanan man nga nakakilala sang kamatuoran.
Ginahigugma namon kamo Ginahigugma namon kamo tungod sang kamatuoran nga aton nabaton, kag ina nga kamatuoran magapabilin sa aton hasta san-o.
Kabay pa nga magapabilin sa aton ang grasya,
Nalipay gid ako sang pagkahibalo ko nga may mga anak ka nga nagasunod sa kamatuoran, suno sa ginsugo sa aton sang Dios nga Dios nga Amay.
Gani, nagapangabay ako sa imo nga maghigugmaanay kita tanan. Ining akon ginasulat sa imo indi bag-o nga sugo, kundi amo ini ang sugo nga ginhatag sa aton sugod sang nagtuo kita.
Ang gugma makita sa aton kon ginatuman ta ang mga sugo sang Dios. Kag ang iya sugo nga inyo nabatian sugod sang nagtuo kamo amo ini: dapat magkabuhi kamo nga may paghigugma.
Importante ini, Importante ini, kay madamo na nga mga manugpatalang ang naglalapta sa kalibutan. Ini nga mga tawo wala nagakilala nga si Jesu-Cristo nagpakatawo. Amo ini ang mga tawo nga manugpatalang kag mga anti-Cristo.
Gani mag-andam gid kamo para indi madula ang inyo ginpangabudlayan, kundi makabaton kamo sang kompleto nga padya.
Ang wala nagasunod sa mga pagtulun-an ni Cristo, kundi nagatudlo sang sobra pa sini, wala sa iya ang Dios. Pero ang nagasunod sa sina nga mga pagtulun-an, ara sa iya ang Amay kag ang Anak.
Gani kon may magkadto sa inyo nga wala nagadala sang mga pagtulun-an ni Cristo, indi ninyo siya pagbatuna sa inyo balay, kag indi siya pagsapaka.
Kay ang tawo nga nagasapak sa mga pareho sina nagakaumid sa kalautan nga ila ginahimo.
Madamo pa kuntani ang akon isugid sa inyo, pero indi ko na lang pag-isulat, kay nagalaom ako nga makabisita man ako dira kag makapakig-estorya sa inyo para mangin malipayon gid kita.
Nagapangamusta sa imo ang mga anak sang imo utod nga babayi nga isa man sang mga pinili sang Dios.
Ako nga manugdumala sang mga tumuluo nagapangamusta nagapangamusta sa imo, Gaius, nga akon ginahigugma sa kamatuoran.
Hinigugma, kabay pa nga maayo ang imo lawas kag ang imo kahimtangan dira, subong nga nahibaluan ko nga nahibaluan ko nga maayo ang imo espiritual nga kahimtangan.
Nalipay gid ako sang pag-abot diri sang pila ka kauturan naton nga nagsugid nga matutom ka gid sa kamatuoran, subong nga nagakabuhi ka suno sa sini nga kamatuoran.
Wala na sang makahatag kalipay sa akon nga sobra pa sang mabatian ko nga ang akon mga anak sa pagtuo nagakabuhi suno sa kamatuoran.
Hinigugma ko nga Gaius ko nga Gaius , masaligan ka gid matuod, kay ginaatipan mo gid ang mga kauturan nga nagaagi dira bisan pa indi mo sila kilala.
Ginsugiran nila ang iglesya diri diri parte sang imo paghigugma nga ginpakita sa ila. Kon mahimo, pag-abot nila dira sa inyo, buligan mo sila sa paagi nga malipay ang Dios, para makapadayon sila sa ila paglakat.
Kay nagapanglakaton sila sa pagtudlo parte kay Cristo, kag wala gid sila nagabaton sing bulig halin sa mga tawo nga wala nagakilala sa Dios.
Gani kita nga mga tumuluo nga mga tumuluo dapat gid magbulig sa mga tawo nga pareho nila para may parte man kita sa ila pagpangabudlay para sa kamatuoran.
Ginsulatan ko ang iglesya dira dira , pero si Diotrefes nga gusto magpangulo sa inyo indi magpamati sa amon.
Gani sa pag-abot ko dira isugid ko sa inyo ang tanan niya nga ginahimo, tungod nga tama kalain sang iya mga ginapanghambal nga butig parte sa amon. Kag indi lang ina, kundi indi man niya pagbatunon ang aton mga kauturan nga nagaagi dira nga nagaagi dira . Ginapunggan pa niya kag ginapahalin sa iglesya ang gusto magbaton sa ila.
Hinigugma ko nga Gaius ko nga Gaius , indi pagsunda ang malain nga ginahimo sang sina nga tawo nga ginahimo sang sina nga tawo . Sunda ang maayo. Ang nagahimo sang maayo iya sang Dios, pero ang nagahimo sang malain wala makakilala sa Dios.
Tan-awa si Demetrius. Ang tanan nga tumuluo nagasugid nga maayo siya nga tawo, kag makita sa iya kabuhi nga nagasunod siya sa kamatuoran. Kami nagapamatuod man nga maayo siya nga tawo, kag nahibaluan mo nga matuod ang amon ginasugid.
Madamo pa kuntani ang akon isugid sa imo, pero indi ko na lang pag-isulat.
Maestoryahanay lang kita ugaling kon mag-abot ako dira, kay nagalaom ako nga makakitaay kita sa labing madali.
Ako Ako si Judas nga utod ni Santiago kag ulipon ni Jesu-Cristo. Nagapangamusta ako Nagapangamusta ako sa inyo nga mga tinawag sang Dios nga mangin iya, kamo nga ginahigugma sang Dios nga Amay kag ginatipigan ni Jesu-Cristo.
Kabay pa nga mabaton ninyo ang dugang pa gid nga kaluoy, kalinong,
Mga hinigugma, gusto ko gid kuntani nga magsulat sa inyo parte sa kaluwasan nga aton nabaton, ugaling naghunahuna ako nga mas kinahanglan gid nga sulatan ko kamo para paisugon sa pagpamatok sa mga tawo nga buot magbaylo sang mga pagpanudlo parte sa aton pagtuo. Ini nga mga pagpanudlo ginhatag sang Dios sa aton nga aton nga iya mga katawhan kag dapat indi gid pagbayluhan.
Ginasulatan ko kamo sini Ginasulatan ko kamo sini tungod nga may mga tawo nga sa sekreto nakaintra dira sa inyo. Indi sila diosnon kag ginabayluhan nila ang matuod nga mga pagpanudlo parte sa grasya sang aton Dios para makapagusto sila sa paghimo sang kalautan.
Bisan nahibaluan na ninyo, gusto ko pa gid nga padumdumon kamo nga ginluwas sang Ginoo ang iya iya katawhan sa duta sang Egypt, pero sang ulihi ginpamatay niya ang iban sa ila tungod nga wala sila magtuo sa iya.
Dumduma man ninyo ang mga anghel nga wala nagpabilin sa ila katungdanan sadto, kundi ginbayaan nila ang ila lugar. Amo ato nga gin-gapos sila sang Dios sang Dios sang mga kadena nga indi mabugto kag ginbutang sa madalom nga lugar nga madulom gid hasta sa pag-abot sang adlaw nga sentensyahan sila sang Dios.
Dumduma man ninyo ang mga tawo sa Sodom kag Gomora kag sa mga banwa sa palibot nila. Nagpakasala man sila pareho sang mga anghel. Kay luyag nila nga magpakighilawas sa indi nila kapareho. Atong silot sa ila sa kalayo nagapaandam sa tanan nga sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw may silot nga wala sing katapusan sa kalayo nga indi gid mapatay.
Amo man sa sini nga mga tawo nga akon ginasiling nga nakaintra na dira sa inyo. May mga damgo sila nga nagatulod sa ila sa pagpakasala kontra sa ila kaugalingon nga lawas. Kag tungod man sa ila mga damgo nga ini, indi sila magpasakop sa Ginoo kag ginapakalain nila bisan ang gamhanan nga mga tinuga.
Bisan pa gani si Micael nga pangulo nga anghel wala naghimo sang pareho sina. Kay sang pagbaisay nila sang yawa kon sin-o sa ila ang magkuha sang bangkay ni Moises, wala siya nagpangahas nga sentensyahan ang yawa nga silutan sa iya pag-insulto kay Moises. Ang ginsiling lang niya, “Ang Ginoo ang magsabdong sa imo!”
Pero ina nga mga tawo nagapakalain sa mga butang nga wala nila maintiendihan. Pareho sila sa mga sapat nga wala nagahunahuna, kay wala sila sing iban nga ginasunod kundi ang ila kinaandan nga mga balatyagon, nga amo man ang nagalaglag sa ila.
Kaluluoy sila! Kay ginasunod nila ang pamatasan ni Cain. Kag ginasunod man nila si Balaam, kay bisan nahibaluan nila nga malain ang ila ginahimo sige pa gid ang ila himo tungod sang ila sobra nga handom sang kuwarta. Pareho man sila kay Kora nga nagrebelde sa Dios, gani pagasilutan man sila kaangay niya.
Ina nga mga tawo nagaguba
Pareho sila sa mabaskog nga balod, kag kon paano nga makita ang bukal nga nagaguwa sa mga balod, makita man ang ila mga binuhatan nga makahuluya. Pareho sila sa mga bituon nga nagtalang. Gani may lugar nga madulom gid nga ginatigana para sa ila. Kag didto sila hasta san-o.
Si Enoc nga ikaanom nga kaliwat halin kay Adan nagpropesiya na parte sa ila. Nagsiling siya, “Magaabot ang Ginoo kaupod sang iya linibo nga mga anghel
sa paghukom sa tanan, kag sa pagsilot sang mga indi diosnon tungod sang ila indi diosnon nga mga binuhatan, kag tungod sang malain nga mga pulong nga ginahambal nila kontra sa iya.”
Ini nga mga tawo nga nagakontra sa kamatuoran nga nagakontra sa kamatuoran permi lang nagareklamo. Indi sila kontento sa ila kahimtangan, ginasunod lang nila ang ila kaugalingon nga mga handom, mga tikalon sila, kag ginainto nila ang iban para makuha nila ang ila gusto.
Pero mga hinigugma, dumduma ninyo ang ginsiling sa inyo sadto sang mga apostoles sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo.
Indi bala nagsiling sila, “Sa ulihi nga mga inadlaw magaguwa ang mga tawo nga magayaguta sa inyo, kag ang ila pagasundon amo lang ang ila malain nga mga handom.”
Amo ini nga mga tawo ang nagapadihot para kamo nga mga tumuluo magbinahin-bahin. Ginagamhan sila sang ila kinaandan nga mga balatyagon. Wala sa ila ang Espiritu Santo Santo .
Pero kamo mga hinigugma, magpalig-unanay kamo sa inyo balaan nga ginatuohan. Magpangamuyo kamo sa bulig sang bulig sang Espiritu Santo.
Tipigi gid ang inyo kaugalingon sa gugma sang Dios samtang nagahulat kamo sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga igahatag sang aton Ginoong Jesu-Cristo tungod sa iya kaluoy.
Kaluoyi ninyo ang mga nagapangduhaduha.
Buligi ninyo ang iban para maluwas sila sa silot, pareho nga nagasabnit kamo sang isa ka butang nga masunog na. Kaluoyi ninyo bisan ang mga tawo nga malain gid, pero mag-andam kamo sa ila mga ginahimo sa ila mga ginahimo . Kangil-aran ninyo ang ila malain nga mga buhat kay ang ila malain nga mga buhat kay bisan ang ila mga bayo nahigkuan sang ila kalautan.
Ang Dios makasarang sa pagbantay sa inyo para indi kamo mahulog sa sala, kag madala niya kamo nga wala sing kasawayan kag malipayon gid sa iya gamhanan nga presensya.
Dalayawon gid siya! Dalayawon gid siya! Siya gid lang ang Dios kag aton Manluluwas paagi kay Jesu-Cristo nga aton Ginoo. Sa iya ang kadungganan, pagkahalangdon, gahom, kag awtoridad halin pa sang una, subong, kag hasta san-o! Amen.
Ini nga sulat Ini nga sulat parte sa mga butang nga ginpahayag ni Jesu-Cristo nga magakalatabo sa indi na lang madugay. Ginsugid ini sang Dios kay Cristo para siya naman ang magasugid sini sa mga nagaalagad sa Dios. Gani ginsugid ini ni Cristo sa iya ulipon nga si Juan paagi sa iya ginsugo nga anghel.
Ako si Juan kag ginasugid ko ang tanan nga butang nga akon nakita nga ginpahayag sang Dios kag ginsugid ni Jesu-Cristo.
Bulahan ang nagabasa kag ang mga nagapamati sa sini nga sulat kon ginatuman nila ang nasulat diri. Kay ang mga propesiya diri madali na lang magakalatabo.
Ginhimo niya kita nga mga hari
Magpreparar kamo! Magaabot si Jesu-Cristo nga makita sa mga panganod. Ang tanan nga tawo makakita sa iya pati ang mga tawo nga nagbuno sa iya. Kag ang mga tawo sa tanan nga banwa sa kalibutan magahibi tungod nga silutan na niya sila. Matuod gid ini!
Ang Ginoong Dios ang makagagahom sa tanan. Kon ano siya subong, amo siya sang una, kag sa palaabuton. Gani nagsiling siya, “Ako ang Alpha kag ang Omega.”
Ako si Juan nga inyo utod nga kaupod man ninyo sa kabudlayan, sa paghari, kag sa pag-antos tungod kay kita ara kay Jesus. Gindala ako sa isla sang Patmos tungod sang akon pagwali sang akon pagwali sang pulong sang Dios nga gintudlo ni Jesus.
Sa adlaw sang Ginoo gin-gamhan ako sang Espiritu Santo Santo , kag nabatian ko ang mabaskog nga tingog halin sa akon likod dampi nga daw tunog sang trumpeta
nga nagasiling, “Isulat mo sa linukot nga sululatan kon ano ang imo makita, kag ipadala dayon sa sining pito ka iglesya: Efeso, Smirna, Pergamum, Tiatira, Sardis, Filadelpia, kag Laodicea.”
Pagkabati ko sadto, nagbalikid dayon ako para tan-awon kon sin-o ang nagahambal sa akon. Kag nakita ko ang pito ka suga nga bulawan.
Sa tunga sang mga suga may nagatindog nga daw isa ka tawo. Malaba ang iya bayo nga lab-ot sa iya tiil, kag sa iya dughan may wagkos nga bulawan.
Ang iya buhok puwerte kaputi pareho sa tela nga maputi gid, kag ang iya mata nagabaga nga daw sa kalayo.
Ang iya mga tiil nagaidlak nga daw sa saway nga gintunaw sa kalayo kag ginpahining. Ang iya tingog mabaskog gid nga daw sa daganas sang busay.
May ginauyatan siya nga pito ka bituon sa iya tuo nga kamot, kag sa iya baba may nagaguwa nga matalom nga espada nga duha ang sulab. Ang iya guya tama kasilaw pareho sang adlaw kon udto.
Pagkakita ko sa iya, natumba ako sa iya tiilan nga daw sa patay. Gintungtong niya dayon ang iya tuo nga kamot sa akon kag nagsiling, “Indi ka magkahadlok! Ako ang ginsuguran kag ang katapusan sang tanan sang tanan .
May kabuhi ako nga wala sing katapusan. Napatay ako, pero tan-awa, buhi ako, kag indi na gid mapatay. May gahom ako sa kamatayon kag sa lugar sang mga patay.
Gani isulat mo ang mga butang nga akon ginapakita sa imo, ang mga butang nga nagakatabo subong kag ang matabo sa ulihi.
Amo ini ang tinago nga kahulugan sang pito ka bituon nga imo nakita sa akon tuo nga kamot kag ang pito ka suga nga bulawan: ang pito ka bituon amo ang pito ka anghel nga nagabantay sa pito ka iglesya, kag ang pito ka suga nga bulawan amo ang pito ka iglesya.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang nagauyat sang pito ka bituon sa iya tuo nga kamot kag nagalakat sa tunga sang pito ka suga nga bulawan:
Nahibaluan ko ang inyo mga ginahimo pati ang inyo mga pagpangabudlay kag pag-antos. Nahibaluan ko man nga indi ninyo maagwanta ang malain nga mga tawo. Gin-usisa ninyo ang mga nagapakaapostoles, kag nasapwan ninyo nga mga butigon gali sila.
Gin-antos ninyo ang mga kabudlayan tungod sa inyo pagtuo sa akon, kag wala gid kamo nagluya.
Pero ang akon nasawayan sa inyo amo ini: ang inyo paghigugma sa akon subong indi na pareho sang una.
Hunahunaa bala ninyo kon daw ano ang inyo paglas-ay. Maghinulsol kamo kag himua ninyo liwat ang inyo mga ginahimo sang una. Kon indi, kadtuan ko kamo kag kuhaon ko ang inyo suga.
Pero amo ini ang maayo sa inyo: ginakaugtan ninyo ang mga ginahimo sang mga Nicolaita nga amo man ang akon ginakaugtan.
“Ang mga mandadaog tugutan ko nga magkaon sang bunga sang kahoy nga nagahatag sang kabuhi, kag ina nga kahoy didto sa Paraiso sang Dios.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling niya nga amo ang ginsuguran kag ang katapusan sang tanan sang tanan , nga napatay pero nabuhi liwat:
Nahibaluan ko ang inyo mga pag-antos. Nahibaluan ko man nga pobre kamo, pero sa langitnon nga mga butang sa langitnon nga mga butang manggaranon kamo. Nahibaluan ko man nga ginainsulto kamo sang mga tawo nga nagasiling nga sila mga Judio, pero ang matuod mga sakop sila ni Satanas.
Indi kamo magkahadlok sa mga butang nga madali na lang ninyo pagaantuson. Tandaan ninyo: ang iban sa inyo ipapriso sang yawa para tilawan kamo. Ang inyo mga pag-antos abuton sing mga napulo ka adlaw. Pero magpakatutom kamo bisan nagakahulugan ini sang inyo kamatayon, kag hatagan ko kamo sang kabuhi nga wala sing katapusan nga wala sing katapusan bilang padya.
“Ang mga mandadaog indi pagsilutan sang ikaduha nga kamatayon.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang nagauyat sang matalom nga espada nga duha ang sulab:
Nahibaluan ko nga bisan nagaestar kamo sa lugar nga kontrolado ni Satanas nagapadayon gihapon kamo sa pagsunod sa akon. Kay wala gid kamo nagtalikod sa inyo inyo pagtuo sa akon, bisan pa sadtong tiyempo nga si Antipas, nga akon masaligan nga manugpamatuod parte sa akon, ginpatay dira sa inyo lugar nga sa diin nagaestar si Satanas.
Pero ari ang pila ka butang nga akon nasawayan sa inyo: may dira sa inyo nga nagasunod sa mga pagpanudlo ni Balaam. Si Balaam nga ini nagtudlo kay Balak kon paano ang pagtentar sa mga Israelinhon para magpakasala sila paagi sa pagkaon sang mga kalan-on nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios kag paagi sa paghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon.
Kag may mga tawo man dira sa inyo nga nagasunod sa mga pagpanudlo sang mga Nicolaita.
Gani maghinulsol kamo sa inyo mga sala! Kay kon indi, kadtuan ko kamo dira sa labing madali, kag awayon ko ina nga mga tawo nga nagasunod sa mga sala nga pagpanudlo nga nagasunod sa mga sala nga pagpanudlo paagi sa espada nga nagaguwa sa akon baba.
“Ang mga mandadaog hatagan ko sang pagkaon nga akon ginatigana didto sa langit. Ang kada isa sa ila hatagan ko man sang puti nga bato, kag sa kada bato may nasulat nga bag-o nga ngalan nga wala sing may makahibalo luwas lang sa magabaton sina.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang Anak sang Dios, nga ang iya mga mata nagabaga nga daw sa kalayo, kag ang iya mga tiil nagaidlak pareho sang ginpahining nga saway:
Nahibaluan ko ang inyo mga ginahimo. Nahibaluan ko nga mahigugmaon kamo, matutom, mapisan magserbisyo kag mainantuson. Nahibaluan ko man nga mas madamo pa gid ang inyo ginahimo subong sang sa una.
Pero ang akon nasawayan sa inyo amo ini: ginapabay-an lang ninyo ang babayi nga si Jezebel nga nagapakapropeta. Ginapabay-an lang ninyo siya nga magpanudlo kag magpatalang sa akon mga ulipon. Nagasiling siya nga indi malain ang maghimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon kag magkaon sang mga pagkaon nga ginhalad sa mga dios-dios.
Ginhatagan ko siya sing tiyempo nga maghinulsol sa iya imoralidad pero indi siya maghinulsol.
Gani pamasakiton ko siya hasta indi na siya makahalin sa katre, kag ang mga tawo nga nagapakighilawas sa iya silutan ko sing tama gid, kon indi sila maghinulsol sa ila ginahimo nga malain.
Pamatyon ko ang iya mga sumulunod, para mahibaluan sang tanan nga iglesya nga nahibaluan ko ang mga hunahuna kag mga handom sang mga tawo. Balusan ko ang kada isa sa inyo suno sa inyo mga hinimuan.
“Pero ang iban sa inyo dira sa Tiatira wala gid nagsunod sa mga pagpanudlo ni Jezebel. Wala ninyo natun-i ang ila ginasiling nga ‘madalom nga mga pagpanudlo ni Satanas.’ Gani wala na ako sing inugdugang pa nga mga pagsulundan nga dapat ninyo tumanon.
Basta padayunon lang ninyo nga himuon ang maayo nga mga butang nga inyo ginahimo subong hasta sa akon pag-abot.
Ihatag ko man sa ila ang bituon sang kaagahon.
“Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ang ginasiling sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa mga iglesya.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang nagauyat sang pito ka bituon kag ara man sa iya ang pito ka Espiritu sang Dios:
Gani magmata kamo, kag palig-una ninyo ang inyo nabilin nga pagtuo samtang buhi pa ini. Tungod kay nasapwan ko nga ang inyo mga hinimuan indi pa husto sa panulok sang akon Dios.
Gani dumduma ninyo ang gintudlo sa inyo nga inyo ginbaton. Tumana ninyo ina kag hinulsulan ninyo ang inyo mga sala. Kon magpabaya pa kamo, kadtuan ko kamo sa oras nga wala ninyo ginapaabot. Ang akon pag-abot mangin pareho sang pag-abot sang makawat, kay wala sing may makahibalo kon san-o.
Pero may pila dira sa inyo sa Sardis nga wala gid nalatnan sang ginahimo nga malain sang iban. Magaupod sila sa akon nga nagabalayo sang puti, tungod kay takos sila.
Ang mga mandadaog pabayuan sing puti, kag indi ko pagpanason ang ila mga ngalan sa libro sang kabuhi.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang matarong kag masaligan. Siya amo ang nagahari pareho sang paghari ni David sang una. Kag siya lang ang nagauyat sang yabi sa iya ginharian. Gani kon mag-abri siya sang puwertahan para makasulod ang tawo sa iya ginharian sang puwertahan para makasulod ang tawo sa iya ginharian , wala sing may makasirado. Kag kon siradhan niya, wala sing may makaabri:
Nahibaluan ko ang inyo mga ginahimo. Nahibaluan ko man nga bisan maluya kamo nagatuman gihapon kamo sang akon mga pagpanudlo, kag wala gid kamo nagtalikod sa akon. Gani may gin-abrihan ako nga puwertahan para sa inyo nga wala gid sing may makasirado.
Pero kon parte sadtong mga tawo nga sakop ni Satanas, nga mga butigon nga nagasiling nga sila mga Judio pero ang matuod indi, paludhon ko sila sa inyo, kag mahibaluan nila nga ginahigugma ko kamo.
Sa pila ka adlaw magaabot ang mga kabudlayan sa bilog nga kalibutan para tilawan ang tanan nga tawo. Pero tungod kay gintuman ninyo ang akon sugo nga magmainantuson kamo, tipigan ko kamo sa mga kabudlayan nga magaabot.
Madali na lang ako mag-abot. Gani magpadayon kamo sa pagsunod sa mga butang nga inyo nahibaluan nga maayo kag matuod para wala sing may makaagaw sang padya nga ginatigana para sa inyo.
Ang mga mandadaog himuon ko nga pareho sa haligi sa puluy-an sang akon Dios, kag indi na gid sila maghalin didto. Markahan ko sila sang ngalan sang akon Dios, kag sang ngalan sang siyudad sang akon Dios, ang bag-o nga Jerusalem nga ipapanaog sang akon Dios halin sa langit. Markahan ko man sila sang akon bag-o nga ngalan.
“Amo ini ang ginasiling sang ginatawag nga Amen, ang masaligan kag matuod nga manugpamatuod. Siya ang ginhalinan sang tanan nga gintuga sang Dios:
Nagasiling kamo nga manggaranon kamo, nga ginpakamaayo kamo kag wala na sing kulang sa inyo. Pero wala kamo kahibalo nga makaluluoy gid kamo, tungod kay pobre kamo sa pagtuo sa pagtuo , bulag sa kamatuoran sa kamatuoran , kag hublas sa panulok sang Dios sa panulok sang Dios .
Gani nagalaygay ako sa inyo nga magbakal kamo sa akon sang bulawan nga ginpaagi sa kalayo nga amo ang matuod nga pagtuo nga amo ang matuod nga pagtuo , para mangin manggaranon kamo. Magbakal man kamo sa akon sang puti nga bayo para matabunan ninyo ang inyo makahuluya nga pagkahublas. Kag magbakal man kamo sa akon sang bulong nga inughaplas sa inyo mata para makakita kamo sang kamatuoran sang kamatuoran .
Ang tanan nga akon ginapalangga ginasaway kag ginadisiplina ko. Gani maghinulsol kamo kag kay-uhon gid ninyo ang inyo batasan.
Nagatindog ako sa puwertahan kag nagapanuktok. Kon may makabati sang akon panawag kag padayunon niya ako sa iya balay, madayon ako, kag magaupod kami kaon.
Ang mga mandadaog papungkuon ko sa tupad sang akon trono.
“Kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ang ginasiling sang Espiritu Santo Santo sa mga iglesya.”
Pagkatapos sadto, may ginpakita pa gid sa akon. Nakita ko ang puwertahan sa langit nga naabrihan. Kag nabatian ko liwat ang tingog nga pareho sa tunog sang trumpeta. Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Saka ka diri kag ipakita ko sa imo kon ano ang magakalatabo sa palaabuton.”
Sa gilayon gin-gamhan ako sang Espiritu Santo Santo . Kag nakita ko didto sa langit ang isa ka trono nga may nagapungko.
Ang nagapungko didto nagabadlak pareho sang malahalon nga mga malahalon nga mga bato nga haspe kag kornalina. Kag sa palibot sang trono may balangaw nga ang iya kolor pareho sa bato nga bato nga esmeralda.
Sa palibot sang trono, may 24 pa gid ka trono nga ginapungkuan sang 24 ka manugdumala. Ini nga mga manugdumala nagabayo sang puti kag ang kada isa sa ila may korona nga bulawan.
Kag halin didto sa trono sige ang pangilat kag pangdaguob, kag kon anu-ano pa ang akon nabatian. Sa atubangan dampi sang trono may pito ka suga nga nagadabdab. Amo ato ang pito ka Espiritu sang Dios.
Sa palibot sang trono, sa kada kilid, may apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga. Damo gid ang ila mga mata sa atubangan kag sa likod.
Ang premiro sa ila daw sa leon; ang ikaduha daw sa bataon nga baka; ang ikatatlo daw sa tawo ang iya hitsura; kag ang ikaapat daw sa nagalupad nga agila.
Siya amo ang Dios sang una, subong kag sa palaabuton.”
Sige ang ila dayaw, padungog, kag pasalamat sa iya nga nagapungko didto sa trono, nga nagakabuhi hasta san-o. Kag samtang ginahimo nila ini,
ang 24 ka manugdumala nagaluhod kag nagasimba sa iya nga nagapungko didto sa trono, nga nagakabuhi hasta san-o. Kag ginabutang nila ang ila mga korona sa atubangan sang trono kag magsiling,
Suno sa imo kabubut-on ginhimo mo sila.”
Pagkatapos sadto, may nakita ako nga linukot nga kasulatan sa tuo nga kamot sang nagapungko sa trono. Ang ini nga kasulatan may sulat sa sulod kag sa guwa kag napitlan sang pito ka selyo.
Kag may nakita dayon ako nga isa ka gamhanan nga anghel nga nagpanawag sa mabaskog nga tingog, “Sin-o bala ang takos nga maghukas sang mga selyo sang linukot nga kasulatan para mabuksan kag mahumlad?”
Pero wala gid sing bisan isa didto sa langit, sa kalibutan, ukon sa idalom sang kalibutan nga sarang makaabri kag makabasa kon ano ang nakasulat sa linukot nga kasulatan.
Gani naghilibion gid ako tungod kay wala gid sing bisan isa nga takos mag-abri kag magbasa sang sini nga kasulatan.
Karon, ang isa sa mga manugdumala didto nagsiling sa akon, “Indi ka maghibi, tungod kay si Jesus nga mandadaog nga ginatawag nga Leon nga halin sa tribo ni Juda kag kaliwat ni David sarang makahukas sang pito ka selyo sa linukot nga kasulatan para mahumlad ini.”
Dayon nakita ko ang isa ka Karnero nga nagatindog didto sa tunga sang trono, nga ginalibutan sang apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga kag sang mga manugdumala. Kon tan-awon, daw sa ginpatay ini nga Karnero. May pito ini ka sungay kag pito man ka mata nga amo ang pito ka Espiritu sang Dios
Nagpalapit ang Karnero sa trono kag ginkuha niya dayon ang kasulatan sa tuo nga kamot sang nagapungko didto.
Pagkakuha niya sang kasulatan, ang apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga kag ang 24 ka manugdumala nagluhod sa pagsimba sa Karnero. Ang kada isa sa ila may yahong nga bulawan nga puno sang insenso nga amo ang mga pangamuyo sang mga katawhan sang Dios. May arpa man ang kada isa sa ila nga ila ginatukar,
Ginpili mo sila sa tanan nga tribo, lingguahe, lahi kag nasyon.
Kag padumalahon mo sila sa kalibutan.”
Dayon nakita ko kag nabatian ang linibo kag minilyon nga anghel. Ang ini nga mga anghel nagatilipon didto sa palibot sang trono, sa apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga, kag sa mga manugdumala.
pagtahod, pagpadungog, kag pagdayaw!”
pagtahod, pagpadungog kag paggahom hasta san-o!”
Nagsabat dayon ang apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga, “Amen!” Kag ang mga manugdumala nagluhod kag nagsimba.
Nakita ko dayon ang Karnero nga nagahukas sang premiro sa pito ka selyo sa linukot nga kasulatan. Kag nabatian ko nga naghambal ang isa sa apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga. Ang iya tingog daw sa daguob. Siling niya, “Dali!”
Pagtan-aw ko, nakita ko ang isa ka puti nga kabayo. Ang nagasakay sini may ginauyatan nga pana. Ginhatagan siya sing korona kag ginpadalagan niya dayon ang iya kabayo kag sige ang iya pagpangdaog.
Pagkatapos sadto, ginhukas sang Karnero ang ikaduha nga selyo sang kasulatan. Kag nabatian ko nga nagsiling ang ikaduha nga buhi nga tinuga, “Dali!”
Kag nagguwa ang pula nga kabayo. Ang nagasakay sini ginhatagan sing dako nga espada, kag ginhatagan man siya sing gahom para magdala sang gira sa duta, para magpinatyanay ang mga tawo.
Paghukas sang Karnero sang ikatatlo nga selyo, nabatian ko ang ikatatlo nga buhi nga tinuga nga nagsiling, “Dali!” Kag nakita ko ang itom nga kabayo. Ang nagasakay sini may ginauyatan nga kilohan.
Pagkatapos may nabatian ako nga daw sa tingog nga halin sa apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga nga nagasiling, “ Pamahala ang ila pagkaon Pamahala ang ila pagkaon . Ang bili sang tatlo ka litse nga harina nga harina nga trigo bali isa ka adlaw nga suhol, kag ang isa ka gantang nga harina nga harina nga barley bali isa man ka adlaw nga suhol. Pero indi pagpataasi ang mantika kag ang bino!”
Pagkatapos sadto ginhukas dayon sang Karnero ang ikaapat nga selyo kag nabatian ko ang ikaapat nga buhi nga tinuga nga nagsiling, “Dali!”
Kag nakita ko ang isa ka malapsi nga kabayo. Ang nagasakay sini gin-ngalanan nga Kamatayon, kag ang Hades
Ginhukas dayon sang Karnero ang ikalima nga selyo. Kag nakita ko sa idalom sang halaran ang mga kalag sadtong mga tawo nga ginpamatay tungod sa ila pagwali sang pulong sang Dios.
Nagsinggit sila sing mabaskog, “Ginoo nga Makagagahom, balaan kag masaligan! San-o mo pa bala hukman kag silutan ang mga tawo sa kalibutan tungod sang ila pagpatay sa amon?”
Ang kada isa sa ila ginhatagan sing malaba nga bayo nga puti, kag ginsilingan sila nga maghulat-hulat lang anay hasta makompleto ang kadamuon sang ila mga kauturan kag mga kaupod nga mga ulipon sang Dios nga pagapatyon man pareho sa ila.
Karon, ang ikaanom na nga selyo ang ginhukas sang Karnero. Pagkahukas sini, naglinog dayon sing mabaskog. Nag-itom ang adlaw pareho sang itom gid nga panapton, kag nagpula ang bulan pareho sang dugo.
Nagkalahulog sa duta ang mga bituon sa langit nga daw sa mga ulihi nga bunga sang kahoy nga higera nga nagakalahulog kon huyupon sang mabaskog nga hangin.
Nadula ang langit nga daw sa linukot nga papel, kag nagkalakuha ang mga bukid kag mga isla sa ila puwesto.
Dayon nagpanago sa mga kuweba kag sa idalom sang dalagko nga mga bato sa mga bukid ang mga hari sa kalibutan, ang mga manugdumala, ang mga opisyal sang mga soldado, ang mga manggaranon, ang mga gamhanan, kag ang tanan nga klase sang tawo, ulipon ukon indi.
Nagsiling sila sa mga bukid kag sa mga bato, “Tiphagi ninyo kami kag tabuni para indi kami makita sang nagapungko sa trono kag para makaluwas kami sa kaakig sang Karnero.
Tungod kay nag-abot na ang adlaw nga ipaagom nila ang ila kaakig sa mga tawo, kag wala gid sing may makakontra sa ila.”
Pagkatapos sadto, may nakita ako nga apat ka anghel nga nagatindog sa apat ka corner sang kalibutan. Ginapunggan nila ang apat ka hangin sa kalibutan para wala sing hangin nga maghuyop sa duta ukon sa dagat ukon sa bisan ano nga kahoy.
Kag nakita ko man ang isa pa ka anghel nga naghalin sa east. May dala siya nga inugmarka sang buhi nga Dios. Nagsinggit siya sing mabaskog sa apat ka anghel nga ginhatagan sang Dios sing gahom sa paghalit sang duta kag sang dagat.
Siling niya, “Indi ninyo anay paghaliti ang duta, ukon ang dagat ukon ang mga kahoy samtang wala ta pa mamarkahan ang mga agtang sang mga ulipon sang aton Dios.”
Suno sa ginsugid sa akon, 144,000 ang ginmarkahan sang marka sang Dios. Halin sila sa tanan nga tribo sang Israel.
,000 halin sa tribo ni Gad;
,000 halin sa tribo ni Manase;
,000 halin sa tribo ni Isacar;
,000 halin sa tribo ni Benjamin.
Pagkatapos sadto, nakita ko ang mga tawo nga indi maisip tungod sa ila kadamuon. Ini nga mga tawo halin sa tanan nga nasyon, tribo, lahi kag lingguahe. Nagatindog sila didto sa atubangan sang trono kag sang Karnero. Ang ila bayo puro puti kag malaba, kag may ginauyatan sila nga mga dahon sang palma.
Nagasinggit sila sing mabaskog, “Dalayawon ang Dios nga nagapungko sa trono, kag dalayawon man ang Karnero kay ginluwas nila kami sa silot!”
Kag nagtindog ang tanan nga anghel sa palibot sang trono kag sang mga manugdumala, kag sang apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga. Nagluhod dayon ang mga anghel sa atubangan sang trono kag nagsimba sa Dios.
Nagsiling sila, “Matuod gid nga ang aton Dios dapat nga dayawon, padunggan, pasalamatan kag tahuron. Nahibaluan niya ang tanan, kag ang tanan nga gahom kag kabaskog ara sa iya. Dayawon siya hasta san-o! Amen!”
Pagkatapos nagpamangkot sa akon ang isa sa mga manugdumala. Siling niya, “Nahibaluan mo bala kon sin-o ang mga tawo nga ina nga nagabayo sing puti, kag kon diin sila naghalin?”
Nagsabat ako, “Sir, wala ako kahibalo. Sugiri man ako!” Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Amo ina ang mga tawo nga nakaagi sa puwerte nga pag-antos. Ang ila mga bayo ginlabhan nila kag ginpaputi sa dugo sang Karnero.
Amo ina nga dira sila nagatindog sa atubangan sang trono sang Dios, kag adlaw-gab-i ang ila pag-alagad sa iya sa iya templo. Kag ang Dios mismo nga Dios mismo nga nagapungko sa trono amo ang nagaasikaso sa ila.
Indi na gid sila paggutumon ukon pag-uhawon. Kag indi na sila mainitan ukon mapaso sa init sang adlaw.
Kay ang Karnero nga dira sa trono amo na ang magabantay sa ila. Dal-on niya sila sa mga tuburan nga nagahatag sang kabuhi, kag pahiran sang Dios ang tanan nga luha sa ila mga mata.”
Sang paghukas sang Karnero sang ikapito nga selyo naglinong ang langit sa sulod sang mga tunga sa oras.
Nakita ko dayon ang pito ka anghel nga nagatindog sa atubangan sang Dios. Kag ang kada isa sa ila ginhatagan sang trumpeta.
May isa pa gid ka anghel nga nagpalapit sa halaran. May ginauyatan siya nga bulawan nga suludlan sang insenso. Ginhatagan siya sing madamo nga insenso para iupod sa mga pangamuyo sang tanan nga tumuluo kag ihalad sa halaran nga bulawan nga ara sa atubangan sang trono.
Gani nagtub-ok paibabaw ang aso sang ginsunog nga insenso kaupod sang mga pangamuyo sang mga katawhan sang Dios halin sa mga kamot sang anghel nga nagatindog sa atubangan sang Dios.
Pagkatapos ginkuha sang anghel ang suludlan sang insenso kag ginpuno niya ini sing kalayo halin sa halaran kag ginhaboy niya dayon sa duta. Sa gilayon, nagpangilat, nagdaguob, naggahod kag naglinog.
Karon, ang pito ka anghel nga may pito ka trumpeta nagpreparar na sa pagpatunog sang ila mga trumpeta.
Ang premiro nga anghel nagpatunog sang iya trumpeta. Nag-ulan dayon sing yelo kag kalayo nga may lakot nga dugo. Kag nasunog ang ikatlo nga parte sang duta, ang ikatlo nga parte sang kahoy, kag ang tanan nga hilamon.
Dayon ang ikaduha nga anghel nagpatunog man sang iya trumpeta, kag may nahulog sa dagat nga daw isa ka dako nga bukid nga nagadabadaba.
Kag ang ikatlo nga parte sang dagat nangin dugo, ang ikatlo nga parte sang tanan nga sapat sa dagat nagkalamatay, kag ang ikatlo nga parte sang tanan nga barko nagkalaguba.
Ang ikatatlo naman nga anghel ang nagpatunog sang iya trumpeta, kag may dako nga bituon nga nagadabdab nga daw sa suga nga nahulog halin sa langit kag nagtupa sa ikatlo nga parte sang mga suba kag mga tuburan.
Ang ngalan sang ato nga bituon “Pait.” Gani ang ikatlo nga parte sang mga tubig nagpait, kag madamo nga tawo ang nagkalamatay sang pag-inom nila sini.
Dayon ang ikaapat nga anghel nagpatunog sang iya trumpeta, kag ang natabo, naigo ang ikatlo nga parte sang adlaw, ang ikatlo nga parte sang bulan, kag ang ikatlo nga parte sang mga bituon, kag nadula ang ikatlo nga parte sang ila kasanag. Gani nagdulom sa ikatlo nga parte sang adlaw kag sa ikatlo nga parte sang gab-i.
Pagkatapos sadto may nakita ako nga agila nga nagalupad sa kahanginan. Nabatian ko nga nagasinggit ini sing mabaskog, “Kaluluoy! Kaluluoy gid ang mga nagaestar sa kalibutan kon magpatunog pa gid ang tatlo ka anghel sang ila mga trumpeta.”
Dayon ang ikalima nga anghel nagpatunog sang iya trumpeta, kag nakita ko ang isa ka bituon nga nahulog sa duta halin sa langit. Ini nga bituon ginhatagan sing yabi nga para sa puwertahan sang madalom gid nga buho.
Gin-abrihan sang bituon ini nga buho, kag nagguwa dayon ang aso nga daw sa naghalin sa dako gid nga hurnohan. Nagdulom ang kalibutan tungod kay ang silak sang adlaw nalipdan sang aso nga halin sa buho.
Kag indi lang ina, kundi halin sa aso may nagguluwa nga mga apan nga naghugpa sa duta, kag ginhatagan sila sing gahom nga magpanakit pareho sa iwi-iwi.
Ginhambalan sila nga indi nila paghalitan ang mga hilamon, ukon ang mga kahoy, ukon ang iban pa nga mga tanom, kundi ang mga tawo lang nga wala sing marka sang Dios sa ila mga agtang.
Gintugutan ang mga apan nga sakiton ato nga mga tawo sa sulod sang lima ka bulan, pero wala sila pagtuguti nga pamatyon nila sila. Ang kasakit sang ila kinadtan pareho sang kinadtan sang iwi-iwi.
Gani sa sulod sang lima ka bulan, gusto sang mga tawo nga mapatay, pero indi sila mapatay. Bisan gusto na gid nila nga mapatay, indi gid sila mapatay.
Ang hitsura sang ato nga mga apan daw sa mga kabayo nga preparado na sa inaway. Sa ila ulo may nagatungtong nga daw sa korona nga bulawan kag ang ila guya daw sa guya sang tawo.
Ang ila buhok daw sa buhok sang babayi, kag ang ila mga ngipon daw sa ngipon sang leon.
Ang ila mga dughan natabunan sang daw sa panaming nga salsalon, kag ang huni sang ila mga pakpak daw sa hagunos sang madamo nga karwahe nga ginaguyod sang mga kabayo pakadto sa inaway.
Ang ila ikog pareho sa ikog sang iwi-iwi nga nagapangutot, kag ang ila ikog may ikasarang sa pagpaantos sa mga tawo sa sulod sang lima ka bulan.
May hari nga nagadumala sa ila. Ini amo ang anghel nga nag-abri nga nag-abri sang madalom nga buho. Ang iya ngalan sa lingguahe nga lingguahe nga Hebreo si Abadon, sa Griego si Apolyon, nga kon sa aton pa Manuglaglag nga kon sa aton pa Manuglaglag .
Tapos na ang premiro nga makahaladlok nga hitabo, pero may duha pa gid nga magaabot.
Dayon ang ikaanom nga anghel nagpatunog sang iya trumpeta, kag nabatian ko nga may naghambal halin sa mga corner sang bulawan nga halaran nga nagaatubang sa Dios.
Nagsiling ang tingog sa ikaanom nga anghel nga may trumpeta, “Buy-i na ang apat ka anghel nga ginagapos sa dako nga suba sang Euphrates!”
Gani ginpangbuy-an sila. Ginpreparar na nga daan sila para gid sa sadto nga oras, para pamatyon nila ang ikatlo nga parte sang tanan nga tawo.
Ginsugiran ako nga ang kadamuon sang ila mga soldado nga manugkabayo 200,000,000.
Kag suno sa ginpakita sa akon, amo ini ang hitsura sang mga kabayo kag sang mga nagasakay: Ang mga nagasakay may mga panaming sa dughan nga ang mga kolor pula pareho sang pula pareho sang kalayo, asul pareho sang asul pareho sang sapiro, kag dalag pareho sang dalag pareho sang asupre. Ang mga kabayo ya, ang ila ulo daw sa ulo sang leon, kag sa ila baba may nagaguwa nga kalayo, aso, kag asupre.
Kag paagi sa sining tatlo ka kahalitan nga amo ang kalayo, aso, kag asupre nga nagaguwa sa baba sang mga kabayo, nagkalamatay ang ikatlo nga parte sang mga tawo.
Ang gahom sang mga kabayo nagahalin sa ila baba kag sa ila ikog. Ang ila ikog daw sa mga man-og nga nagapangagat, kag amo ini ang ila ginagamit sa pagsakit sa mga tawo.
Pero ang mga tawo nga nabilin, nga wala nagkalamatay sa sining tatlo ka kahalitan, wala pa gid magbiya sa mga dios-dios nga ila ginhimo. Sige pa gid ang ila simba sa mga demonyo kag sa mga rebulto nga bulawan, pilak, saway, bato kag kahoy. Ang ini nga mga rebulto indi makakita, indi makabati, kag indi makalakat.
Wala man sila naghinulsol sang ila pagpamatay, pagpangbabaylan, pagpakigrelasyon nga imoral, kag pagpangawat.
Pagkatapos sadto, may nakita ako liwat nga anghel nga gamhanan nga nagapanaog halin sa langit. Nalikupan siya sang panganod, kag may nagalibot nga balangaw sa iya ulo. Nagasilak ang iya nawong pareho sa adlaw, kag ang iya mga batiis daw sa mga haligi nga kalayo.
May ginauyatan siya nga gamay nga kasulatan nga nahumlad. Pag-abot niya sa kalibutan, gintungtong niya ang iya tuo nga tiil sa dagat kag ang iya wala nga tiil sa duta,
kag nagsinggit siya. Ang iya tingog daw sa leon nga nagangurob. Pagkatapos niya singgit, nagsabat ang pito ka daguob.
Isulat ko na kuntani ang ginhambal sang pito ka daguob, pero may nabatian ako nga tingog halin sa langit nga nagsiling, “Indi pag-ipanugid ang ginhambal sang pito ka daguob. Indi ini pag-isulat.”
Karon, ang anghel nga nakita ko nga nagatindog sa dagat kag sa duta nagbayaw sang iya tuo nga kamot sa langit
kag nagpanumpa sa Dios, ang Dios nga nagakabuhi hasta san-o, nga naghimo sang langit, duta, kag dagat, kag sang tanan nga butang nga ara sa ila. Nagsiling ang anghel, “Indi na magdugay,
kay kon magpatunog na ang ikapito nga anghel sang iya trumpeta, himuon na sang Dios ang iya tinago nga plano suno sa iya ginsugid sa iya mga ulipon nga mga propeta.”
Nagsiling liwat sa akon ang tingog nga halin sa langit, “Kadtui ang anghel nga nagatindog sa dagat kag sa duta, kag kuhaa ang kasulatan nga nahumlad sa iya kamot.”
Gani nagkadto ako sa anghel kag ginpangayo ko sa iya ang gamay nga kasulatan. Nagsiling siya sa akon, “Ari, kuhaa kag kauna. Daw honey ini katam-is kon dira pa sa imo baba, pero pag-abot sa imo tiyan magapait ini.”
Ginkuha ko ang kasulatan sa iya kamot kag ginkaon ko dayon. Daw honey matuod ang iya katam-is sa akon baba, pero pagkatulon ko na, nagpait sa akon tiyan.
Kag may nagsiling dayon sa akon, “Kinahanglan iwali mo liwat ang ginpahambal sang Dios parte sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon, lahi, lingguahe kag hari.”
Dayon ginhatagan ako sang inugtakos nga daw sa baston. Nagsiling ang naghatag sa akon, “Sige, taksa ang templo sang Dios kag ang halaran, kag isipa dayon kon pila ang nagasimba didto.
Pero ang sa guwa sang templo indi lang pag-ilakip takos kay ina para sa mga tawo nga wala makakilala sa Dios. Ini sila amo ang magaguba sang balaan nga siyudad sa sulod sang 42 ka bulan.
Kag sa sina nga mga inadlaw ipadala ko ang akon duha ka saksi nga magasuksok sang sako bilang tanda sa mga tawo nga dapat na sila maghinulsol bilang tanda sa mga tawo nga dapat na sila maghinulsol . Kag magawali sila sang akon ipawali sa ila sa sulod sang 1,260 ka adlaw.”
Ang ining duha ka saksi amo ang duha ka kahoy nga olibo
Kon may magtinguha sa pagsakit sa ila, may kalayo nga magaguwa sa ila baba kag magalaglag sang ila mga kaaway. Pareho sini ang pagpatay sa kay bisan sin-o nga gusto magsakit sa ila.
May gahom man sila sa pagpugong sang ulan para indi mag-ulan samtang nagawali sila sang pulong sang Dios. May gahom man sila nga ang tubig sa mga tuburan mahimo nila nga dugo. Kag indi lang ina kundi may gahom pa gid sila sa paghalit sang bilog nga kalibutan paagi sa nagkalain-lain nga kahalitan sa bisan ano nga oras nga gusto nila.
Kon makatapos na sila sa pagwali sang pulong sang Dios, awayon sila sang dako nga sapat nga magaguwa halin sa madalom nga buho. Ining duha ka manugwali mapierdi sang sapat kag patyon dayon sila.
Ang ila bangkay mabilin lang sa karsada sang bantog nga siyudad, nga sa diin ang ila Ginoo ginlansang sa krus. Ang ini nga siyudad nagasimbolo sang Sodom ukon Egypt.
Sa sulod sang tatlo ka adlaw kag tunga, didto ang ila bangkay sa karsada nga ginatan-aw sang mga tawo sa nagkalain-lain nga lahi, tribo, lingguahe kag nasyon. Kag indi magtugot ang mga tawo nga ipalubong sila.
Magakalipay gid ang mga tawo sa kalibutan tungod kay napatay na atong duha ka tawo. Magaselebrar sila kag magaregaluhay tungod nga napatay ang duha ka propeta sang Dios nga nagdala sing madamo nga kalisod sa mga tawo sa kalibutan.
Pero pagkaligad sang tatlo ka adlaw kag tunga, ginbuhi liwat sang Dios ang ila mga bangkay. Nagtindog sila kag ang tanan nga nakakita sa ila hinadlukan.
Dayon ang ining duha ka saksi nakabati sang tingog nga mabaskog halin sa langit nga nagasiling, “Dali, saka kamo diri!” Kag samtang nagatan-aw ang ila mga kaaway, nagsaka sila pa-langit.
Sa amo man nga oras naglinog sing mabaskog. Ang ikanapulo nga parte sang siyudad naguba, kag 7,000 ka tawo ang nagkalamatay sa ato nga linog. Ang mga tawo nga wala nagkalamatay kinulbaan, kag nagdayaw sila sa Dios sang langit.
Ang ikaduha nga makahaladlok nga hitabo tapos na, pero may masunod pa nga ikatatlo.
Ang ikapito nga anghel nagpatunog sang iya trumpeta, kag may mabaskog nga mga tingog sa langit nga nagasiling, “Karon ang aton Ginoo kag ang iya pinili nga si Cristo amo na ang magahari sa kalibutan. Kag ang iya paghari wala sing katapusan!”
Kag ang 24 ka manugdumala nga nagapungko sa ila mga trono sa atubangan sang Dios nagluhod dayon kag nagsimba sa Dios,
kag nag-umpisa ka na nga maghari sa kalibutan.
Oras na nga pamatyon mo ang mga tawo nga nagaguba sang kalibutan.”
Pagkatapos sadto, gin-abrihan ang templo sang Dios didto sa langit. Kag didto sa sulod, makita ang Kahon sang iya Kasugtanan. Dayon nagpangilat, nagginahod, kag nagdinaguob. Naglinog man kag nag-ulan sing yelo nga daw mga bato.
May makatilingala dayon nga butang nga nagpakita sa langit. Nakita ko ang isa ka babayi nga nagabayo sing adlaw, kag ang bulan didto sa idalom sang iya mga tiil. Kag sa iya ulo may korona nga may dose ka bituon.
Manugbata na ang babayi, kag nagauraroy tungod kay nagapasakit na siya.
May isa pa gid ka makatilingala nga butang nga akon nakita sa langit. May dako nga dragon nga pula nga may pito ka ulo kag may napulo ka sungay, kag sa kada ulo may korona.
Ginpangahig sang iya ikog ang ikatlo nga parte sang mga bituon kag ginpanghaboy sa duta. Didto siya nagatindog malapit sa babayi nga manugbata para pagbata sang babayi kaunon niya dayon ang bata.
Karon, nagbata ang babayi kag ang iya bata lalaki. Ang ini nga bata amo ang magadumala sa mga nasyon, kag wala gid sing may makakontra sa iya pagdumala.
Ang babayi nga nagbata nagpalagyo sa kamingawan nga ginpreparar na nga daan sang Dios para sa iya, para didto siya atipanon sa sulod sang 1,260 ka adlaw.
Karon, nagsugod ang inaway sa langit. Nagpakig-away si Micael kag ang iya mga kaupod nga mga anghel kontra sa dragon. Nagpakig-away man ang dragon kag ang iya sakop nga mga anghel.
Pero indi makadaog ang dragon, kag siya kag ang iya mga anghel ginpalayas sa langit.
Gintabog paguwa ang dako nga dragon. Siya amo atong man-og sang una nga ginatawag nga yawa ukon Satanas, nga nagapatalang sa mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan. Ginhulog siya diri sa kalibutan pati ang iya sakop nga mga anghel.
Pagkatapos sadto, nabatian ko dayon ang mabaskog nga tingog didto sa langit nga nagasiling, “Karon nag-abot na ang oras nga ang mga tawo luwason na sang Dios! Ginapakita na niya subong ang iya gahom bilang Hari kag ang awtoridad ni Cristo nga iya pinili! Kay ginpalayas na sa langit ang manug-akusar sang aton mga kauturan. Wala sing pahuway ang iya pag-akusar sa ila sa aton Dios.
Pero ginpierdi siya sang aton kapareho nga mga tumuluo paagi sa dugo sang Karnero, kag paagi sa kamatuoran nga ila ginsugid. Kag wala nila ginpasulabi ang ila kabuhi gani wala sila nahadlok nga magtaya sang ila kabuhi.
Gani magkalipay kamo, kamo nga nagaestar sa langit. Pero kaluluoy kamo nga nagaestar sa duta kag sa dagat, tungod kay nagpanaog na ang yawa dira sa inyo. Naakig gid siya katama tungod kay nahibaluan niya nga malip-ot na gid lang ang iya tion nga nabilin.”
Sang matalupangdan sang dragon nga ginhulog na siya sa duta, ginlagas niya dayon ang babayi nga nagbata sing lalaki.
Pero ginhatagan ang babayi sing duha ka pakpak nga pareho sa dako nga agila, para makalupad siya pakadto sa iya lugar sa kamingawan nga sa diin pagaasikasuhon siya sa sulod sang tatlo ka tuig kag tunga, kag indi siya maano sang man-og.
Gani nagbuga dayon ang man-og sing madamo nga tubig nga daw sa baha pakadto didto sa babayi para anuron siya.
Pero ginbuligan sang duta ang babayi. Nag-abri ang duta kag ginsuyop ang tubig nga halin sa baba sang dragon.
Kag nagdugang pa gid ang kaakig sang dragon sa babayi, gani ang iya ginhimo, nagpakig-away siya sa iban nga mga bata sang babayi. Ini nga mga bata wala sing iban kundi ang tanan nga nagatuman sa mga sugo sang Dios kag nagasunod sa kamatuoran nga ginpanudlo ni Jesus.
Dayon may nakita ako nga sapat nga nagbutwa sa dagat nga napulo ang iya sungay kag pito ang iya ulo. Kada sungay may korona, kag sa kada ulo may nakasulat nga ngalan nga nagainsulto sa Dios.
Ang sapat nga akon nakita daw sa leopard. Ang iya tiil daw sa tiil sang bear, kag ang iya baba daw sa baba sang leon. Ginhatag sang dragon ang iya gahom kag ang iya trono sa sapat para mangin dako ang iya awtoridad sa paghari.
Ang isa sa mga ulo sang sapat daw ginpatay, pero ang iya pilas nga ikamatay nag-ayo. Natingala gid sa sapat ang mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan, kag nagsunod sila sa iya.
Ginsimba nila ang dragon tungod kay siya amo ang naghatag sing gahom sa sapat. Ginsimba man nila ang sapat; siling nila, “Wala sing may makapareho sa sini nga sapat kag wala sing may makakontra sa iya.”
Gintugutan sang Dios ang sapat nga maghambal sing puwerte nga pag-insulto sa iya sa iya kag maggahom sa sulod sang 42 ka bulan.
Gin-insulto niya ang Dios, ang ngalan sang Dios, ang ginaestaran sang Dios, kag ang tanan nga nagaestar sa langit.
Gintugutan man siya nga awayon niya kag pierdihon ang mga katawhan sang Dios. Kag ginhatagan man siya sing awtoridad nga maghari sa tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan bisan ano pa ang ila tawo sa kalibutan bisan ano pa ang ila tribo, lahi, lingguahe, kag nasyon.
Ang ini nga sapat simbahon sang tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan nga ang ila ngalan wala masulat sa libro sang kabuhi
Gani kamo nga nagapamati, dapat intiendihon gid ninyo ining inyo nabatian.
Ang bisan sin-o nga gintalana nga dakpon, pagadakpon gid. Kag ang bisan sin-o nga gintalana nga patyon sa espada, pagapatyon gid sa espada.
Pagkatapos sadto, nakita ko pa gid ang isa ka sapat nga nagguwa halin sa duta. Ang ini nga sapat may duha ka sungay nga pareho sa sungay sang karnero, pero kon maghambal ini daw sa dragon.
Gin-gamit niya ang awtoridad sang premiro nga sapat para mag-alagad sa iya. Ginpilit niya ang tanan nga tawo sa kalibutan nga magsimba sa premiro nga sapat nga may pilas nga ikamatay nga nag-ayo.
Madamo nga milagro ang ginhimo sining ikaduha nga sapat, pareho sa pagpaulan sang kalayo halin sa langit. Ginhimo niya ini nga mga milagro para makita sang mga tawo nga gamhanan siya.
Gani paagi sa mga milagro nga ginpahimo sa iya sang premiro nga sapat, gindayaan niya ang mga tawo sa kalibutan. Ginsilingan niya ang mga tawo nga himuan sang rebulto ang premiro nga sapat para simbahon para simbahon . Ining premiro nga sapat ginlabo sang espada pero nabuhi pa.
Ang ikaduha nga sapat gintugutan man nga maghatag sing kabuhi sa rebulto sang premiro nga sapat, para makahambal ang rebulto kag makapamatay sang mga tawo nga indi magsimba sa iya.
Kag indi lang ina, kundi ginpilit niya ang tanan nga tawo, bantog kag indi, manggaranon kag imol, ulipon kag indi ulipon, nga markahan sila sa ila tuo nga kamot ukon sa ila mga agtang.
Kag ang bisan sin-o nga indi magpamarka sang ngalan sang premiro nga premiro nga sapat ukon sang numero sang iya ngalan indi makabakal ukon makabaligya.
Kinahanglan gid ang kaalam para mahibaluan kon ano ang kahulugan sang numero sang sapat, kay ini nagarepresentar sang ngalan sang tawo. Kag amo ini ang numero: 666.
Pagkatapos sadto, nakita ko ang Karnero nga nagatindog didto sa Bukid sang Zion. Kaupod niya didto ang 144,000 ka tawo. Sa ila agtang nakasulat ang ngalan sang Karnero kag sang iya Amay.
Dayon may tingog ako nga nabatian halin sa langit nga daw sa daganas sang busay ukon daw sa matunog nga daguob; kag daw sa tukar sang mga manug-arpa nga nagakuting-kuting sa ila mga arpa.
Ang 144,000 ka tawo nagakanta nga nagaatubang sa trono, sa apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga, kag sa mga manugdumala. Kag ginakanta nila ang bag-o nga kanta nga wala sing iban nga nakahibalo kundi sila lang nga 144,000 nga mga tinubos halin sa kalibutan.
Sila amo ang mga tawo nga wala gid nagpakighilawas sa mga babayi kag wala gid nagpangasawa. Nagasunod sila sa Karnero bisan diin siya magkadto. Gintubos sila halin sa mga tawo para mangin una nga inughalad sa Dios kag sa Karnero.
Wala sing may makasiling nga nagbutig sila, kag wala gid sing may ikasaway sa ila.
Kag nakita ko dayon ang isa pa gid ka anghel nga nagalupad sa kahanginan. Dala niya ang wala nagabaylo nga Maayong Balita. Ginsugid niya ini sa mga tawo sa kalibutan, sa tanan nga nasyon, tribo, lingguahe, kag lahi.
Nagsiling siya sa mabaskog nga tingog, “Kahadluki ninyo ang Dios kag dayawa siya, tungod kay nag-abot na ang oras nga hukman niya ang tanan nga tawo. Simbaha ninyo ang Dios nga naghimo sang langit, sang duta, sang dagat, kag sang mga tuburan.”
Ang ikaduha nga anghel nagsunod sa nahauna nga anghel. Siling niya, “Naguba! Naguba na ang bantog nga siyudad sang Babilonia.
Ang ikatatlo nga anghel nagsunod sa duha ka nahauna nga anghel. Nagasiling siya sa mabaskog nga tingog, “Ang tanan nga nagasimba sa sapat kag sa iya rebulto kag nagabaton sang marka sang sapat sa ila agtang ukon sa ila kamot
makatilaw gid sang kaakig sang Dios. Kag silutan gid sila sa nagadabadaba nga asupre samtang nagatan-aw ang balaan nga mga anghel sang Dios kag ang Karnero.
Ang aso sang kalayo nga magasilot sa ila magapaibabaw hasta san-o. Adlaw-gab-i wala gid sing pahuway ang pag-antos ang pag-antos sadtong mga nagasimba sa sapat kag sa iya rebulto, sila nga nagpamarka sang ngalan sang sapat.”
Gani kamo nga mga katawhan sang Dios, nga nagatuman sang iya mga sugo kag nagatuo kay Jesus, kinahanglan magmainantuson kamo.
Pagkatapos sadto, may nabatian ako nga tingog halin sa langit nga nagasiling, “Isulat ini: Sugod subong bulahan ang mga nagkalamatay nga ara sa Ginoo!” Kag nagsabat ang Espiritu Santo Santo , “Matuod ina, makapahuway na sila sa ila mga pagpangabudlay, kay mabaton na nila ang ila balos para sa ila maayo nga maayo nga mga binuhatan.”
Dayon may nakita ako nga puti nga panganod, kag may nagapungko didto nga daw sa tawo.
Dayon may isa pa gid ka anghel nga nagguwa halin sa templo kag nagsinggit sa nagapungko sa panganod, “Gamita na ang imo garab kay tig-alani na, luto na ang alanihon sa kalibutan.”
Gani gin-garab sang nagapungko sa panganod ang alanihon sa kalibutan.
Karon may nakita ako liwat nga anghel nga nagguwa sa templo didto sa langit, kag may garab man siya nga matalom.
Kag didto sa halaran may nagguwa man nga anghel. Siya ang anghel nga nagaasikaso sang kalayo didto sa halaran. Nagsinggit siya sa anghel nga may garab nga matalom, “Gamita na ang imo garab kag panggutraba ang mga ubas sa kalibutan kay luto na.”
Gani ginpanggutrab niya kag gintumpok dayon didto sa dako nga pulugaan. Ang halimbawa sini nga pulugaan amo ang silot
Ginpuga ang mga ubas sa guwa sang siyudad, kag ang nagguwa halin sa pulugaan dugo nga nagbaha sing mga 300 ka kilometro ang kalawigon, kag mga isa ka dupa ang kadalumon.
Kag may nakita ako liwat nga makatilingala nga talan-awon sa langit. May pito didto ka anghel nga may dala nga pito ka kahalitan. Amo na ini ang katapusan nga mga kahalitan nga ipadala sang Dios sa iya kaakig.
Kag nakita ko dayon ang daw dagat nga matin-aw nga pareho sa kristal kag daw may kalayo. Kag didto nakita ko ang mga tawo nga nagdalaog kontra sa sapat kag sa iya rebulto. Wala gid sila nagpamarka sang numero sang sapat. Ini sila nagauyat sang mga arpa nga ginhatag sa ila sang Dios.
matarong kag husto ang imo mga pamaagi!
tungod kay nakita nila ang imo matarong nga mga binuhatan.”
Pagkatapos sini, nakita ko nga nag-abri ang templo sa langit, ang Tolda nga Simbahan nga sa diin nabutang ang Kasuguan.
Kag halin didto sa templo nagguwa ang pito ka anghel nga nagadala sang pito ka kahalitan. Nagabayo sila sing matinlo nga linen nga nagabadlak, kag sa ila dughan may wagkos nga bulawan.
Karon, ang isa sa apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga naghatag sa pito ka anghel sang pito ka yahong nga bulawan, nga puno sang kaakig sang Dios nga nagakabuhi hasta san-o.
Napuno ang templo sang aso tungod kay didto ang Dios kag ang iya gahom. Kag wala sing may makasulod didto sa templo samtang wala pa matapos ang pito ka kahalitan nga halin sa pito ka anghel.
Pagkatapos may nabatian ako nga mabaskog nga tingog halin sa templo nga nagasiling sa pito ka anghel, “Sige, iula na ninyo sa kalibutan ang pito ka yahong nga ina nga ginasudlan sang kaakig sang Dios.”
Gani naglakat ang premiro nga anghel kag gin-ula niya ang sulod sang iya yahong sa duta. Ang natabo, nag-abot ang mga masakit kag syado kalain nga mga katol sa mga tawo nga may marka sang sapat kag sa mga nagasimba sa iya rebulto.
Gin-ula dayon sang ikaduha nga anghel ang sulod sang iya yahong sa dagat, kag ang tubig sa dagat nangin pareho sang dugo sang patay nga tawo. Kag nagkalamatay ang tanan nga nagakabuhi sa dagat.
Pagkatapos gin-ula sang ikatatlo nga anghel ang sulod sang iya yahong sa mga suba kag sa mga tuburan, kag ang tanan nga tubig nangin dugo man.
Nabatian ko dayon ang anghel nga ginatugyanan sang tubig nga nagasiling, “Matarong ka gid, O Dios, O Dios, ikaw nga amo sang una kag amo man subong. Balaan ka gid, kay husto ining mga silot nga imo ginahimo sa mga tawo.
Ginpaagay nila ang dugo sang imo mga katawhan pati sang mga propeta, gani subong dugo man ang imo ipainom sa ila. Kay ina ang bagay nga ibalos sa ila.”
Kag may nabatian dayon ako nga tingog halin sa halaran nga nagasiling, “Ginoong Dios nga makagagahom sa tanan, husto kag matarong gid ang imo pagsilot sa mga tawo!”
Karon, gin-ula sang ikaapat nga anghel ang sulod sang iya yahong sa adlaw, kag nag-init gid ang adlaw, kag nagkalapaso ang mga tawo tungod sa kainit.
Pero bisan nagkalapaso ang mga tawo, wala sila gihapon naghinulsol kag nagdayaw sa Dios, kundi ginpakalain pa gani nila ang Dios nga amo ang may gahom sa mga kahalitan nga nag-abot sa ila.
Gin-ula man sang ikalima nga anghel ang sulod sang iya yahong didto sa trono sang sapat. Kag nagdulom dayon sa iya bilog nga ginharian. Kag tungod sa mga kasakit nga gin-antos sang mga tawo, ginkagat na lang nila ang ila mga bibig.
Wala gid sila naghinulsol sa ila malain nga mga pagginawi kundi ginpakalain pa gani nila ang Dios sang langit
Gin-ula sang ikaanom nga anghel ang sulod sang iya yahong sa dako nga suba sang Euphrates. Nagmala dayon ang suba para makaagi didto ang mga hari halin sa east.
Kag may nakita dayon ako nga tatlo ka mahigko nga espiritu, nga daw sa mga paka, nga nagaguwa sa baba sang dragon, sa baba sang sapat, kag sa baba sang indi matuod nga propeta.
Ini gali sila mga demonyo nga nagahimo sang mga milagro. Nagakadto sila sa mga hari sa bilog nga kalibutan para tipunon sila para sa pagpakig-away sa Dios pag-abot sang bantog nga adlaw nga gintigana nga gintigana sang Dios nga makagagahom sa tanan.
Karon, gin-ula sang ikapito nga anghel ang sulod sang iya yahong sa hangin. Kag nabatian ko nga may nagasinggit halin sa trono nga didto sa templo, nga nagasiling, “Tapos na ang tanan!”
Kag nagpangilat dayon, nagginahod, nagdaguob kag naglinog sing mabaskog. Wala pa gid sing linog nga pareho sadto kabaskog halin sang paghimo sang tawo. Amo gid ato ang pinakamabaskog nga linog sa tanan.
Napihak ang bantog nga siyudad sa tatlo ka parte, kag nagkalaguba ang mga siyudad sang tanan nga nasyon. Gintuman sang Dios ang iya promisa parte sa mga tawo nga nagaestar sa siyudad sang Babilonia. Amo ato nga nag-abot na sa ila ang puwerte nga kaakig sang Dios.
Nagkaladula ang tanan nga isla kag wala na sing bukid nga makita.
Kag indi lang ina, kundi gin-ulanan pa gid ang mga tawo sang yelo nga ang kada isa nagabug-at sing mga 50 ka kilo. Kag ginpakalain sang mga tawo ang Dios tungod sa sina nga kahalitan nga puwerte gid.
Karon, nagpalapit sa akon ang isa sa pito ka anghel nga nag-ula sang sulod sang ila yahong. Siling niya, “Dali, ipakita ko sa imo kon paano ang pagsilot sa bantog nga babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, nga nagapungko sa madamo nga katubigan.
Nagpakighilawas sa iya ang mga hari sa kalibutan paagi sa pagsunod sa iya gintudlo paagi sa pagsunod sa iya gintudlo , kag ang mga tawo sa kalibutan daw sa nahubog tungod sang iya gintudlo sa ila nga puro malain.”
Pagkatapos gin-gamhan ako sang Espiritu Santo Santo kag gindala ako sang anghel sa kamingawan. Didto may nakita ako nga babayi nga nagasakay sa pula nga sapat. Pito ang ulo sang sapat kag napulo ang iya sungay, kag sa iya bilog nga lawas may nakasulat nga mga ngalan nga nagainsulto sa Dios sa Dios .
Nagabayo ang babayi sing granate
kag sang tanan nga kalainan sa bilog nga kalibutan. kag sang tanan nga kalainan sa bilog nga kalibutan.
Natingala gid ako sang pagkakita ko sa iya.
Pero nagsiling ang anghel sa akon, “Indi ka magkatingala. Sugiran ko ikaw sang tinago nga kahulugan sang babayi pati sang sapat nga iya ginasakyan nga may pito ka ulo kag napulo ka sungay.
Ang sapat nga imo nakita buhi sadto anay, pero subong patay na. Ugaling madali na lang siya magguwa halin sa madalom gid nga buho, pero pagguwa niya laglagon siya. Makita siya sang mga tawo sa kalibutan nga ang ila mga ngalan wala masulat sa libro sang kabuhi
“Kinahanglan gid ang kaalam para mahibaluan kon ano ang kahulugan sini. Ang pito ka ulo amo ang pito ka bukid nga ginapungkuan sang babayi. Kag ini nagakahulugan man sang pito ka hari.
Ang lima sa pito ka hari patay na, ang isa nagahari pa subong, kag ang isa wala pa makaabot. Kon maghari na siya, indi lang dugay.
Ang sapat nga sadto anay buhi, pero subong patay na, amo ang ikawalo nga hari. Isa man siya sa mga nahauna nga pito ka hari, kag siya pagalaglagon man.
“Ang napulo ka sungay nga imo nakita wala sing iban kundi ang napulo ka hari nga wala pa makaumpisa sang ila paghari. Ini sila hatagan sing awtoridad nga maghari kaupod sang sapat, pero indi lang dugay.
Ining napulo ka hari may isa lang ka katuyuan, gani ihatag nila ang ila gahom kag awtoridad sa sapat.
Magapakig-away sila sa Karnero, pero mapierdi sila, tungod kay ang Karnero amo ang Ginoo nga labaw sa tanan nga ginoo kag Hari nga labaw sa tanan nga hari. Kaupod sang Karnero ang mga matutom nga ginpili kag gintawag.”
Nagsiling man sa akon ang anghel, “Ang mga tubig nga imo nakita, nga ginapungkuan sang babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, wala sing iban kundi ang mga tawo sa nagkalain-lain nga lahi, nasyon kag lingguahe.
Ang napulo ka sungay nga imo nakita kag ang sapat magadumot sa babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas. Kuhaon nila ang tanan niya nga pagkabutang kag wala gid sing may mabilin sa iya bisan pa ang iya ginasuksok. Pagkatapos kaunon nila ang iya unod kag sunugon nila dayon ang nabilin nila dayon ang nabilin .
Ipahimo ini sa ila sang Dios para himuon nila ang iya katuyuan. Gani hasta matuman ang ginhambal sang Dios, magasugtanay ang mga hari nga ipasakop sa sapat ang ila gahom sa pagdumala.
“Ang babayi nga imo nakita wala sing iban kundi ang bantog nga siyudad nga nagahari sa mga hari sa kalibutan.”
Pagkatapos sadto, nakita ko naman ang isa ka anghel nga nagapanaog halin sa langit. Gamhanan ini nga anghel, kag ang iya kasilaw nagpasanag sa bilog nga kalibutan.
nga ginakabig nga mahigko kag makangilil-ad.
tungod kay sa ila siya nagpamakal sang iya mga kinahanglanon para masunod ang iya mga bisyo.”
kag para indi kamo malakip sa silot nga para sa iya.
Kag indi gid malipatan sang Dios ang iya kalautan.
Kon ano ang iya ginsilot sa iban, doblehon ina bilang balos sa iya.
kag indi gid magpangasubo pareho sa mga balo.
tungod kay gamhanan ang Ginoong Dios nga nagasentensya sa iya.
“Ang mga hari sa kalibutan nga nagpakighilawas sa iya kag nagpagusto sang iya manggad magahibi kon makita nila ang aso sang iya pagkasunog.
Didto sila sa malayo magatan-aw tungod kay nahadlok sila nga basi kon malakip sila sa silot nga para sa iya. Magasiling sila, ‘Kaluluoy! Kaluluoy sang bantog kag gamhanan nga siyudad sang Babilonia. Kay sa malip-ot lang nga tion
“Magahibi kag magapangasubo ang mga negosyante sa bilog nga kalibutan tungod sa natabo sa sadto nga siyudad, kay wala na sing may magabakal sang ila mga baligya.
Wala na sing may magabakal sang ila Wala na sing may magabakal sang ila bulawan, pilak, malahalon nga mga bato, kag mga perlas; kag sang ila mga tela nga linen, seda, kag mga tela nga mga tela nga granate kag pula. Wala na sing may magabakal sang ila Wala na sing may magabakal sang ila kahoy nga mahamot, sang ila galamiton nga ginhimo halin sa bangkil sang elepante, sa mga malahalon nga kahoy, sa saway, sa salsalon, kag sa marmol.
Kag sin-o pa ang magabakal sang ila mga ginabaligya nga mga Kag sin-o pa ang magabakal sang ila mga ginabaligya nga mga pahamot nga pareho sang sinamon, insenso, mira kag iban pa. Wala na sing may magabakal sang ila Wala na sing may magabakal sang ila bino, lana, harina kag trigo; sang ila mga baka, karnero, kabayo kag karwahe; kag bisan sang ila mga ulipon nga mga tawo.
Magasiling ang mga negosyante sa siyudad sang Babilonia, Magasiling ang mga negosyante sa siyudad sang Babilonia, ‘Ang tanan nga butang nga imo ginahandom nga angkunon nagkaladula. Ang tanan mo nga manggad kag pagkabutang nga ginapadayaw nadula, kag ini tanan indi mo na makita liwat!’
Ang mga negosyante nga nagmanggaranon sa ila negosyo sa sini nga siyudad magatindog didto sa malayo tungod kay nahadlok sila nga basi kon malakip sila sa silot nga para sa iya. Magahibi sila kag magapangasubo,
kag magasiling, ‘Kaluluoy! Kaluluoy sang sina nga bantog nga siyudad! Sang una ang mga tawo dira nagabayo sang malahalon nga malahalon nga mga tela nga linen kag sang mga tela nga sang mga tela nga granate kag pula, kag nagapangalahas sang bulawan, malahalon nga mga bato, kag mga perlas!
“Magatan-aw sa malayo ang mga kapitan sa mga barko kag ang ila mga tripulante, pati ang mga pasahero, kag ang tanan nga tawo nga ang ila palangitan-an sa dagat.
Samtang nagatan-aw sila sa aso sang pagkasunog sang siyudad magasinggit sila, ‘Wala gid sing siyudad nga makapareho sa sina nga bantog nga siyudad!’
Tungod sa ila kasubo sabwagan nila sing yab-ok ang ila mga ulo kag magahinibi nga nagasiling, ‘Kaluluoy! Kaluluoy sang sina nga bantog nga siyudad! Tungod sa iya manggad nagmanggaranon ang tanan nga may mga sakayan sa dagat nga nagpakignegosyo sa iya nagpakignegosyo sa iya ! Pero sa malip-ot lang nga tion nadula ang tanan!’
“Gani kamo tanan nga ara sa langit, magkalipay kamo tungod sa natabo sa sina nga siyudad. Magkalipay kamo, kamo nga mga propeta, mga apostoles, kag mga katawhan sang Dios, tungod kay ginsentensyahan na siya sang Dios sa iya mga ginpanghimo sa inyo!”
Karon, may isa ka anghel nga gamhanan nga nagpulot sang bato nga ang kadakuon pareho sa dako nga galingan, kag ginhaboy niya dayon ini sa dagat kag nagsiling, “Pareho sini ang pagkadula sang bantog nga siyudad sang Babilonia, kay indi na gid ini makita liwat.
Indi na gid mabatian sa siyudad ang mga sunata sang mga manug-arpa, mga manugkanta, mga manugplawta kag mga manugtrumpeta. Indi na man makita didto nga may nagaobra sang bisan ano nga klase nga obra. Kag wala na sing may mabatian didto nga nagagaling.
Wala na gid sing suga nga makita. Wala na sing may mabatian nga tingog sang mga bag-o nga ginkasal. Pagasilutan ang Babilonia Pagasilutan ang Babilonia tungod kay ang mga negosyante didto puwerte ka matinaas-taason, kag tungod kay ang mga manugbabaylan didto amo ang nagpatalang sa mga tawo sa bilog nga kalibutan.”
Kag indi lang ina, ginpamatay man didto ang mga propeta kag mga katawhan sang Dios. Kag ang tanan nga ginpamatay sa bilog nga kalibutan ginpamatay tungod sa sina nga siyudad.
Pagkatapos sadto, nabatian ko ang daw sa madamo gid nga mga tawo sa langit nga nagahambal sing mabaskog. Nagasiling sila, “Dayawon ta ang Ginoo! Dayawon ta ang aton Dios nga makagagahom sa tanan, kay siya ang nagluwas sa aton!
Husto kag matarong ang iya paghukom! Ginsentensyahan niya ang bantog nga babayi nga nagabaligya sang iya lawas, kay gindagtaan niya ang mga tawo sa mga tawo sa kalibutan sa iya imoralidad. Ginsilutan siya sang Dios tungod kay ginpamatay niya ang mga suluguon sang Dios.”
Nagsiling sila liwat, “Dayawon ta ang Ginoo! Ang aso sang ato nga siyudad magatub-ok hasta san-o!”
Kag ang 24 ka manugdumala kag ang apat ka buhi nga mga tinuga nagluhod kag nagsimba sa Dios nga nagapungko sa trono. Siling nila, “Amen! Dayawon ta ang Ginoo!”
Dayon may tingog ako nga nabatian halin sa trono nga nagasiling, “Dayawa ninyo ang aton Dios, tanan kamo nga nagaalagad kag nagatahod sa iya, bantog man ukon indi!”
Pagkatapos sadto, nabatian ko ang daw sa madamo gid nga mga tawo nga nagahambal, nga daw pareho sa daganas sang busay, kag daw pareho man sa mabaskog nga mga daguob. Nagasiling sila, “Dayawon ta ang Ginoo! Kay ang Ginoo nga aton Dios nga makagagahom sa tanan nagahari na.
Maghinugyaw kita kag magkinalipay, kag dayawon ta siya. Kay nag-abot na ang tion sang kasal sang Karnero. Ang iya nobya preparado na.
Ginpabayuan siya sing matinlo nga linen nga nagabadlak.” (Ang bayo nga linen nagakahulugan sang matarong nga mga binuhatan sang mga katawhan sang Dios.)
Nagsiling dayon ang anghel sa akon, “Isulat ini: Bulahan ang mga tawo nga gin-agda sa punsyon sang kasal sang Karnero.” Nagsiling pa gid siya, “Matuod ini nga mga pulong sang Dios.”
Nagluhod ako dayon sa atubangan sang anghel sa pagsimba sa iya. Pero nagsiling siya sa akon, “Indi ina paghimua sa akon. Ang Dios lang gid ang imo simbahon. Suluguon man lang ako sang Dios sang Dios nga pareho sa imo kag sa imo mga kauturan nga nagasugid sang kamatuoran parte kay Jesus.” (Kay ang kamatuoran parte kay Jesus amo man ang ginhambal kag ginsulat sang mga propeta.)
Nakita ko dayon nga nag-abri ang langit, kag didto may kabayo nga puti. Ang nagasakay sa kabayo ginatawag Masaligan kag Matuod. Matarong ang iya paghukom kag pagpakig-away.
Ang iya mga mata daw sa kalayo nga nagadabadaba, kag may madamo nga korona sa iya ulo. May ngalan nga nakasulat sa iya sa iya , ugaling wala gid sing may nakahibalo kon ano ang kahulugan sini kon ano ang kahulugan sini kundi siya gid lang.
Nagasuksok siya sang bayo nga gintusmog sa dugo. Ginatawag siya nga “Pulong sang Dios.”
May nagasunod sa iya nga mga soldado nga halin sa langit, nga nagasakay man sa puti nga mga kabayo, kag ang ila bayo linen nga matinlo kag maputi.
Nagaguwa sa iya baba ang matalom nga espada nga amo ang iya gamiton sa pagpierdi sa mga nasyon. Dumalahan niya sila, kag wala gid sing may makakontra sa iya pagdumala. Ipakita gid niya ang puwerte nga kaakig sang makagagahom nga Dios sa ila.
hari nga labaw sa tanan nga hari kag ginoo nga labaw sa tanan nga ginoo! hari nga labaw sa tanan nga hari kag ginoo nga labaw sa tanan nga ginoo!
Pagkatapos sadto, nakita ko ang isa ka anghel nga nagatindog sa adlaw. Nagsinggit siya sa tanan nga pispis nga nagalupad sa kahanginan, “Dali kamo kag magtipon para sa dako nga punsyon sang Dios!
Dali kamo Dali kamo kag kauna ninyo ang unod sang mga hari, mga heneral, mga soldado, mga manugkabayo, pati ang unod sang ila mga kabayo. Kauna ninyo ang unod sang tanan nga tawo, ulipon ukon indi ulipon, bantog ukon indi!”
Pagkatapos nakita ko ang sapat kag ang mga hari sa kalibutan kag ang ila mga soldado nga nagtilipon sa pagpakig-away sa nagasakay sa puti nga puti nga kabayo kag sa iya mga soldado nga halin sa langit nga halin sa langit .
Nadakpan ang sapat. Nadakpan man ang indi matuod nga propeta, nga amo ang naghimo sang mga milagro sa iya pag-alagad sa sapat. Paagi sa mga milagro, ginpatalang niya ang mga tawo nga may marka sang sapat kag nagasimba sa rebulto sini. Sila nga duha ginhaboy nga buhi sa dagat
Ang ila mga soldado ginpamatay sang espada nga nagaguwa sa baba sang nagasakay sa puti nga puti nga kabayo. Kag nagpagusto kaon ang mga pispis sang ila unod.
Pagkatapos sadto, may nakita ako liwat nga anghel nga nagapanaog halin sa langit. May ginauyatan siya nga yabi para sa madalom gid nga buho, kag may dako man siya nga kadena.
Gindakop niya dayon ang dragon, nga wala sing iban kundi ang man-og sang una, nga amo ang yawa ukon si Satanas. Kag gin-gapos niya siya sa sulod sang 1,000 ka tuig.
Ginhulog siya sang anghel sa madalom gid nga buho kag ginkandaduhan dayon, kag ginmarkahan pa niya ang tabon para wala sing may makabukas sini. Ginpriso siya Ginpriso siya para indi na niya mapatalang ang mga tawo sa nagkalain-lain nga nasyon sa sulod sang 1,000 ka tuig. Pagkatapos sang 1,000 ka tuig, kinahanglan nga buy-an siya sa malip-ot lang nga tion.
Dayon may nakita ako nga mga trono. Ang mga nagapungko sa mga trono ginhatagan sing awtoridad sa paghukom. Kag nakita ko man ang mga kalag sang mga tawo nga ginpang-utdan sang ulo tungod sang ila pagsugid sang ginpanudlo ni Jesus kag sang pulong sang Dios. Ini sila wala nagsimba sa sapat ukon sa iya rebulto. Wala man sila nagpamarka sang marka sang sapat sa ila agtang ukon sa ila mga kamot. Ginpangbanhaw sila, kag ginpadumala kaupod ni Cristo sa sulod sang 1,000 ka tuig.
Amo ini ang una nga pagkabanhaw. (Ang iban nga nagkalamatay wala pagbanhawa samtang wala pa matapos ang 1,000 ka tuig.)
Bulahan ining mga katawhan sang Dios nga malakip sa una nga pagkabanhaw. Ang ikaduha nga kamatayon indi makaano sa ila. Mangin mga pari sila sang Dios kag ni Cristo. Kag magahari sila kaupod ni Cristo sa sulod sang 1,000 ka tuig.
Pagkatapos sang 1,000 ka tuig, buy-an si Satanas halin sa iya prisohan.
Magaguwa siya para patalangon ang mga nasyon sa bilog nga kalibutan, nga kon tawgon Gog kag Magog. Tipunon sila ni Satanas para magpakig-away sa mga katawhan sang Dios sa mga katawhan sang Dios . Ang iya matipon nga mga tawo mangin pareho sang balas sa baybayon nga indi maisip nga indi maisip .
Akuparon nila ang bilog nga kalibutan. Libutan nila ang kampo sang mga katawhan sang Dios, nga amo ang siyudad nga palangga sang Dios. Pero paulanan sila sang Dios sang kalayo nga halin sa langit kag magkalamatay sila tanan.
Kag ang yawa nga nagpatalang sa ila, ihaboy sa dagat
Pagkatapos may nakita ako nga dako nga trono nga maputi, kag may nagapungko didto. Ang langit kag ang duta gindula niya kag indi na sila makita liwat.
Nakita ko man ang mga nagkalamatay, bantog man ukon indi, nga nagatilindog sa atubangan sang trono. Ginpang-abrihan dayon ang mga libro, pati ang libro sang kabuhi.
Bisan sa dagat sila nagkalamatay ukon sa duta, nagguluwa ang ila mga kalag halin sa lugar sang mga patay. Kag sila tanan ginhukman suno sa ila mga binuhatan.
Pagkatapos sadto, nakita ko ang bag-o nga langit kag ang bag-o nga duta,
Kag nakita ko ang Balaan nga Siyudad, ang bag-o nga Jerusalem, nga ginapaidalom sang Dios halin sa langit. Ang ini nga siyudad preparado na gid, pareho sa kalaslon nga babayi nga nakatrahe na sa pagsugata sa iya pamanahon.
Pagkatapos may nabatian ako nga mabaskog nga tingog halin sa trono nga nagasiling, “Karon, ang puluy-an sang Dios ara na sa mga tawo! Magapuyo siya upod sa ila, kag sila mangin iya na nga katawhan. Ang Dios mismo mangin ila kaupod kag ila Dios.
Pahiran niya ang ila mga luha. Wala na sing kamatayon, kasubo, paghibi ukon kasakit tungod kay ang daan nga mga butang nakaligad na.”
Dayon nagsiling ang nagapungko sa trono, “Karon, ginabag-o ko na ang tanan nga butang!” Kag nagsiling siya sa akon, “Isulat ini nga mga pulong tungod kay matuod ini kag masaligan.”
Kag nagsiling pa gid siya, “Natuman na ang tanan ang tanan ! Ako ang Alpha kag ang Omega, nga ang buot silingon, nga ang buot silingon, ang ginsuguran kag ang katapusan sang tanan sang tanan . Kon may ginauhaw, paimnon ko siya nga wala sing bayad sa tuburan nga nagahatag sang kabuhi.
Ang mga mandadaog himuon ko nga akon mga anak kag ako mangin ila Dios.
Pero makahaladlok ang dangatan sang makahaladlok ang dangatan sang mga tawo nga nahadlok magsunod sa akon, mga wala nagatuo sa akon, mga nagahimo sang malaw-ay nga mga butang, mga manugpatay, mga nagahimo sang imoral nga pagpakigrelasyon, mga manugbabaylan, mga nagasimba sa mga dios-dios, kag ang tanan nga butigon. Ang lugar nga para sa ila amo ang dagat nga nagadabadaba sang kalayo nga may asupre. Amo ina ang ginatawag nga ikaduha nga kamatayon.”
Karon, nagpalapit sa akon ang isa sa pito ka anghel nga nag-ula sang sulod sang ila yahong, nga amo ang pito ka katapusan nga mga kahalitan. Kag nagsiling siya, “Dali, ipakita ko sa imo ang babayi nga kalaslon sa Karnero.”
Dayon gin-gamhan ako sang Espiritu Santo Santo kag gindala sang anghel sa putokputokan sang mataas gid nga bukid. Kag ginpakita niya dayon sa akon ang Balaan nga Siyudad nga kon tawgon Jerusalem, nga ginapaidalom sang Dios halin sa langit.
Masilaw ini tan-awon tungod sang gahom sang Dios, kag nagaidlak pareho sa malahalon nga bato, nga pareho sa bato nga bato nga haspe, nga daw kristal katin-aw.
Napalibutan ang siyudad sang mataas kag mapag-on nga pader, nga may dose ka puwertahan, kag sa kada puwertahan may isa ka anghel nga nagabantay. Nakasulat man didto sa mga puwertahan ang mga ngalan sang dose ka tribo sang Israel.
May tatlo ka puwertahan sa kada kilid sang pader: tatlo sa east, tatlo sa north, tatlo sa south, kag tatlo sa west.
Ang pader sang siyudad ginpatindog sa dose ka pundasyon nga ginsulatan sang mga ngalan sang dose ka apostoles sang Karnero.
Ang anghel nga naghambal sa akon may dala nga inugtakos nga bulawan para takson ang siyudad pati ang iya mga puwertahan kag ang iya pader.
Kuwadrado gid ang siyudad; pareho ang iya kalabaon kag ang iya kasangkaron. Gintakos sang anghel ang siyudad, kag ang kalabaon sini bali 2,400 ka kilometro
Gintakos man sang anghel ang pader, kag bali 64 ka metros ang iya kataason.
Ang pader bato nga bato nga haspe, kag ang siyudad mismo puro bulawan kag matin-aw nga daw sa kristal.
Ang mga bato nga pundasyon sang pader nadekorahan sang tanan nga klase sang malahalon nga mga bato. Ang premiro nga pundasyon bato nga bato nga haspe, ang ikaduha sapiro, ang ikatatlo kalsedonia, ang ikaapat esmeralda,
ang ikalima sardonika, ang ikaanom kornalina, ang ikapito krisolito, ang ikawalo berilo, ang ikasiyam topasio, ang ikanapulo krisopraso, ang ikaonse hasinto, kag ang ikadose ametist.
Ang dose ka puwertahan perlas, kay ang kada puwertahan ginhimo halin sa isa ka dako nga perlas. Ang karsada sang siyudad puro bulawan kag matin-aw nga daw sa kristal.
Wala ako sing may nakita nga templo sa siyudad tungod kay ang iya templo amo ang Ginoong Dios mismo nga makagagahom kag ang Karnero.
Indi man kinahanglan ang adlaw kag ang bulan sa sini nga siyudad, tungod kay ang gahom sang Dios nagasilak didto, kag ang Karnero amo ang iya suga.
Masanagan ang mga tawo sa kalibutan sang iya suga, kag magadala ang mga hari sa bilog nga kalibutan sang ila manggad didto.
Permi abri ang mga puwertahan sang siyudad; indi na gid pagsiradhan kay wala sing gab-i didto.
Pagadal-on sa siyudad ang mga matahom kag malahalon nga mga butang sang mga nasyon.
Pero indi makasulod didto ang bisan ano nga indi matinlo sa panulok sang Dios, ang bisan sin-o nga nagahimo sing makahuluya nga mga buhat, kag ang mga butigon. Ang makasulod lang didto amo ang mga tawo nga ang ila ngalan nasulat sa libro sang kabuhi
Ginpakita man sa akon sang anghel ang suba nga ang iya tubig nagahatag sang kabuhi. Nagaigpat-igpat ini nga daw sa kristal, kag nagahalin sa trono sang Dios kag sang Karnero,
kag nagailig sa tunga sang karsada sang siyudad. Sa pihak kag pihak nga higad sang suba may kahoy nga nagahatag sang kabuhi kag nagapamunga sing dose ka beses sa sulod sang isa ka tuig, kaisa kada bulan. Kag ang iya dahon ginagamit nga bulong para sa tanan nga tawo.
Wala na sing bisan ano nga ginpakamalaot sang Dios nga makita sa sadto nga siyudad sa sadto nga siyudad . Didto ang trono sang Dios kag sang Karnero, kag ang iya mga ulipon magasimba sa iya.
Makita na nila ang iya hitsura, kag ang iya ngalan isulat sa ila agtang.
Wala na sing gab-i didto, gani indi na kinahanglan ang mga suga ukon ang sanag sang adlaw, kay ang Ginoong Dios amo na ang ila suga. Kag magadumala sila bilang mga hari hasta san-o.
Nagsiling dayon ang anghel sa akon, “Ini nga mga pulong matuod kag masaligan. Ang Ginoong Dios nga nagapahayag sa iya iya mga propeta
Nagsiling si Jesus, Nagsiling si Jesus, “Madali na lang ako mag-abot! Bulahan ang mga tawo nga nagatuman sa mga ginasiling sang Dios sa sini nga libro.”
Ako, si Juan, nakabati mismo kag nakakita sining mga butang nga akon ginsulat diri nga akon ginsulat diri . Pagkatapos ko nga makita kag mabatian ini nga mga butang, nagluhod ako sa pagsimba sa anghel nga nagpakita sa akon sang sini nga mga butang.
Pero nagsiling siya sa akon, “Indi ka magsimba sa akon. Ulipon man ako sang Dios sang Dios nga pareho sa imo kag sa imo kapareho nga mga propeta, kag sang tanan nga nagatuman sa mga ginasiling sa sini nga libro. Ang Dios ang imo simbahon!”
Kag nagsiling pa gid siya sa akon, “Indi pagtagua ang mga ginapropesiya sa sini nga libro, tungod kay madali na lang ini tanan magakalatabo.
Ang mga malain magahimo pa gid sang malain, kag ang mga mahigko sing hunahuna magapadayon pa gid sa ila mahigko nga mga hunahuna. Pero ang mga tawo nga matarong kag matinlo ang ila kabuhi ang ila kabuhi magapadayon gihapon sa paghimo sang maayo.”
Nagsiling si Jesus, Nagsiling si Jesus, “Pamati kamo, indi na lang madugay kag magabalik na ako! Kag dal-on ko ang balos nga para sa kada isa suno sa iya mga binuhatan.
Ako ang Alpha kag ang Omega, nga ang buot silingon, nga ang buot silingon, ang nahauna kag ang naulihi, ukon ang ginsuguran kag ang katapusan sang tanan sang tanan .
“Bulahan ang mga nagatinlo sang ila mga bayo
Pero mabilin sa guwa ang mga malain nga mga tawo:
“Ako, si Jesus, nagsugo sa akon anghel para isugid sa imo ini nga mga butang para sa mga iglesya. Kaliwat ako ni David kag ako ang masanag nga bituon sa kaagahon.”
Nagasiling ang Espiritu Santo Santo kag ang babayi nga kalaslon, “Dali!” Kag ang tanan nga nagapalamati magsiling man, “Dali!” Ang bisan sin-o nga ginauhaw kag gusto mag-inom magpalapit kag magbaton sang tubig nga nagahatag sang kabuhi. Ini wala sing bayad.
Ako, si Juan, si Juan, nagapaandam gid sa kada isa nga nagapamati sa mga ginasiling sang sini nga libro. Ang bisan sin-o nga magdugang sa mga ginasiling diri, idugang man sang Dios sa iya silot ang mga kahalitan nga nakasulat sa sini nga libro.
Kag ang magbuhin sa mga ginasiling sang sini nga libro, kuhaon sang Dios ang iya parte sa ginsambit diri nga bunga sang kahoy nga nagahatag sang kabuhi. Kag indi siya pagpasudlon sa Balaan nga Siyudad nga nasambit man sa sini nga libro.
Si Jesus amo ang nagapamatuod sa tanan nga nakasulat diri. Siling niya, “Matuod gid nga madali na lang ako magbalik.” Nagsiling man ako, Nagsiling man ako, “Kabay pa. Ginoong Jesus, magbalik ka na.”
Kabay pa nga tanan kamo nga mga katawhan sang Dios
